ARTS FACULTY 
EXHIBITION 
CARNEGIE INST.
GIRLS BASKET BALL 
GAME SATURDAY 
AT 3:00 P. M.
VOL. XVI. NO. 20CARNEGIE INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY, PITTSBURGH, PENNSYLVANIAWEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 8, 1922
CHAS. L. TAYLOR 
CARNEGIE INST. 
TRUSTEE DEAD
Dies After Illness of Five 
Months. Was One of the 
Original Partners of And
rew Carnegie
APPOINTED IN 1904
FORMAL OPENING OF
"PARRY ROOM FEBY. 15 AT
5:00 P. MALL INVITED
The formal opening of the Parry 
Room in the C. I. T. Library will 
take place on Wednesday, February
15, at 5 p. m. The exercises will 
last about twenty minutes, and it is 
hoped that faculty, alumnae and those 
students who knew Miss Parry will 
be present. No individual notices can 
be sent to students or alumnae. The 
committee hopes they will regard this 
notice as a cordial invitation.
COSMO. CLUB HOLDS 
PLAYS OF NATIONS
After an illness of five months, 
Charles Lewis Taylor, a trustee of 
the Carnegie Institute of Technology 
since 1904, died at his home at 
Santa Barbara, Calif.
Mr. Taylor was bom in Philadel
phia, a son of John D. and Sarah 
Potts Rutter Taylor. He was grad
uated from Lehigh University with 
the degree of bachelor of science in 
1876 and became assistant chemist 
at the Cambria Iron Company, Johns'- 
town.
From the very beginning of his 
business career, Mr. Taylors force 
of character and energetic tempera
ment brought him into prominence. 
He came to Pittsburgh in 1880 as 
chemist for the Pittsburgh Bessemer 
Steel Company, and in 1S82 became 
superintendent of the company, 
which position lie retained; after the 
company was absorbed by the Car
negie interests. For the next three 
years he was superintendent of the 
Homestead steel works, which posi
tion he filled until 1887, when he 
was succeeded by Charles M.
(Continued On Page Two.)
Ring Design Accepted 
At Council Meeting
Senior Privilege Com. R
portsCampus Week 
Discussed
The Student Council accepted the 
design for a Degree Ring submitted 
by the Ring Committee as its choice. 
The design was made up by the Herrf 
Jones Company. The accepted design 
will be made up and the ring itself 
will be submitted to the Alumni Fed. eration and to 'the Executive Commit
tee for final approval.
The Senior Privilege Committee 
asked that the Council approve its 
action in reserving the first floor of 
Music Hall for Seniors and women 
students during student gatherings. 
The action was approved by the Cduncil and henceforth only Seniors and 
all Carnegie girls will be allowed to 
use the first floor.
P. J. TJnzicker met with the Coun
cil and several plans were discussed 
for Campus Week proceedure. The 
entire committee will soon be formed 
and announced.
Newman Club To Hold Dance
The Newman Club of Pittsburgh 
will hold another of series of in
formal dances Monday evening, Feb
ruary 13, in the K. of C. Hall, Fifth 
avenue, Belief!eld. The committee, 
Misses Ruth Barton, Margaret Ken
ney, Katherine Mathews and Messrs. 
Charles Leegan, Frank Balthasar 
and George Eppler, chairman, are 
planning to make this dance the 
biggest of the season. Novelties and 
surprises will feature the occasion.
DR BUDLONG TO SPEAK
AT CHAPEL ON MONDAY
Another good speaker has been se
cured by Mr. Davis, secretary of. the 
Carnegie Tech Y. M. C. A., to speak 
at chapel Monday, February 13. This 
man is Doctor F. S. Budlong, pastor 
of the Ascension Episcopal Church. 
It was he who spoke at Calvary 
Church on Carnegie Tech night, and 
he will be remembered by all who 
heard him for his pleasing and mas
terful address upon that occasion.
Those weeldy swims at the Schenley High School pool will be continu
ed through the coming semester. 
Those who desire to take advantage 
of this opportunity to get a free swim 
each week should be at the Schenley 
High School at 7:30 Wednesday even
ings. Bring your own towel.
The discussion groups will resume 
their activities next week. The Fresh
man group, under the leadership of 
A1 May, meets Friday evening at 7 
oclock. You Freshmen who would 
like to meet Mr. May otherwise than 
officially, should come around to the 
Y club room and get in with his 
bunch.
Professor Simpsons group, which 
meets at 12:30 on Wednesdays, will 
also be resumed. This group like
wise meets in the Y club i-oom.
On Tuesday, February 7 the Stu
dent Cabinet of-the Y. M. C. A. took 
charge of the men students who are 
entering as Freshmen. These men 
were entertained at a pleasant din
ner in the beanery. The cabinet 
members are acting as counselors for 
the new group.
Just as a peek into the future, vis
ualize to yourself that Y" club room 
with soft rugs on the floor, pictures 
adorning the walls, and a magazine 
rack with current magazines! Well, 
its going to come true pretty soon. 
Just another one of the useful-things 
the C?/ egie Branch is doing with 
that nj ' of yours.
Dimancesco Head of Nine 
Central and Southern 
States Clubs
One of the most important events 
in connection with College Clubs is 
found in the combination of the Pitt 
and the 'Carnegie Cosmopolitan
Clubs, into one organization, called 
the Intercollegate Cosmopolitan Club. 
The Intercollegiate Cosmopolitan
Club is a member of the Corda- Fratfres Association of Cosmopolitan
Clubs and D. D. Dimancesco of Car
negie Tech isi head of the Third dis
trict, having supervision over the 
Cosmopolitan Clubs in nine central 
and southern states. The new club 
is a vice presidential chapter, taking 
the rank that the Carnegie chapter 
had in the past.
Thei purposes of the club are to 
create and foster the true spirit of 
fellowship among its members.; to 
promote a sympathetic international 
understanding and world brother
hood; to establish and cultivate a 
closer, friendlier and more cordial 
intercourse between the foreign and 
American students.
The club is composed of eighty 
members, representing Austria Ar
menia, Brazil, Bolivia., China, Columbia, 
Czechoslovakia, France, Germany, 
Honduras, India, Italy, Japan, Lith
uania, Mexico, Palestine, Philippine j 
(Continued on Page Four.)
ARTS FACULTY 
EXHIBITION AT 
CARNEGIE INST.
Lectures to be Given by Fac
ulty of College of Fine Arts. 
Students Are Invited to 
View Work of Instructors
MOLIERE FESTIVAL
Two New Members Appointed 
To Faculty Next Semester
The second semester opens with 
two well-known characters added to 
the faculty. The first is Mr. Porter 
Garnett, an authority on bookmaldng 
and printing. Mr. Garnett is known 
in this country as one of the fore
most of printers, newspaper critics 
and play producers. He was at va
rious times connected with San Fran
cisco newspapers and during the 
years 1905 and 190G was associate ed
itor of the Argonaut.
' At the University of California, in 
1912-13 Mr. Garnett was assistant cu
rator of the Bancroft Library and 
since 1913 he has held the position of 
director of the American Pageant As
sociation.
Mr. Garnett will take up work here 
at once, as a member of the printing 
staff.
Mrs. Mary A. Burnett, born in Lon
don, and having a B. A. degree from 
the University of Toronto and an A. 
M. degree from Columbia University, 
has been appointed to the position of 
head of the Department of Social 
Work in the Margaret Morrison Col
lege.
Previous to ' coming to Carnegie, 
Mrs Burnett was head of the social 
service ,in the Public Health Center 
of Alameda county, California, and 
has been connected with the Red 
Cross Institute at the University of 
North Carolina in the capacity of lec
turer.
Invitations have been Issued to a 
private view of an exhibition of 
works of art to be presented by the 
faculty of the College of Fine Arts, 
Carnegie Institute of Technology, in 
the galleries of the Carnegie Insti
tute, from February 8th to February 
26th, inclusive. The purpose of the 
exhibition is to give to the public of 
Pittsburgh an opportunity to see ex
amples .of the work of the faculty of 
the various departments of the Col
lege of Fine Arts of the Carnegie In
stitute of Technology. The College 
of Fine Arts is remarkable because of 
the fact that it is the only school in 
the country that teaohes all the. Arts 
under one roof. It is of value and in
terest to have the various depart
ments co-ordinated and combined in 
this manner. The atmosphere and 
surroundings are essentially artistic 
and a great incentive to students.
During the exhibition faculty mem
bers will be present to giv informa
tion concerning the pictures and 
other works of art concerning the 
College of Fine Arts. Three or four 
times a weelt special .lectures will be 
given on some subject of interest to 
art ilovers, starting with one by Di
rector Bossange on Art and Happi
ness on Thursday evening at 8 oclock 
in Gallery M. The lectures will be 
short and informal in character and 
tho speakers will answer any ques
tions that may be asked. The days 
that regular lectures are not sched
uled, faculty members will be pres
ent to give any information that may 
be desired. On Saturday, February 
11th, Mr. Hornbostel will lecture on 
"Designing Bridges. Mr. I-Iornbostol 
has gained a national reputation 
through the buildings which he has 
designed. 1-Ie is an authority on 
bridge design, and will show among 
other executed works drawings of 
some of the great New York bridges 
of which he is the', architect.
The faculty of the Department of 
Architecture will display paintings in 
oil, water colors, black and white 
sketches, working drawings, sketches 
and architectural des?gns. This de
partment has recently been awarded 
a gold medal by the American group, 
Societie des Architectes Diplme par 
le Gouvernement Franais for merito
rious. work in architectural teaching 
according to the Beaux Arts prin
ciples.
Tho Department of Painting and 
Illustration will contribute oils and 
water colors, figure and landscape 
work, sketches and decorative de(Continued on Pago Four.)
A COLLEGE CENSUS
!
Chicago, Jan. 14.  Oregon, Iowa 
and Utahi have the largest number 
of students in college, according to 
their respective populations, and Ten
nessee has the lowest proportion, 
with Arkansas and New Mexico 
cosely following Tennessee, Dr. Geo. 
F. Zook of the United States Bureau 
of Education told the Association of 
American Colleges here today. Dr. 
Zook stated that he obtained this in
formation. from statistics compiled 
for the last full college year of 1920-
1921.
The statistics also reveal that the 
Western States of California, Ore
gon and Utah take care of a larger 
proportion of their students in their 
own colleges and universities than 
any other states. continued Dr. Zook. 
New Jersey brings up the rear with 
only 18 per cent of her students in 
New Jersey institutions and Connec
ticut with 35.6 per cent.
On the other hand, the Eastern 
States of New Hampshine, Connecti
cut, Maryland, New Jersey and Mas
sachusetts contain the institutions 
that draw most powerfully from 
other states. Indeed the higher in
stitutions in these states are train
ing a larger number of non-residents 
than they are of citizens of their re
spective states."
Dr. Zook also announced that the 
attendance at universities, colleges 
and professional schools last year 
reached 450,000, which is a gain of 
36 per cent over the attendance in 
the war year of 1917-18.
Accurate figures of foreign stu
dents in, American colleges and uni
versities were aJlso supplied by Dr. 
Zook, the total being 6,900. China 
leads with 1,443 students, .and Can
ada is second with 1,294. Other counfies are as follows: Japan, 525;
South American countries, 563; Rus
sia, 290; India, 235.
WHY FRESHMAN TAKE 
PSYCHOLOGICAL EXAMS.
For several years all the Freshmen 
entering C. I. T. have been given a 
series of intelligence tests. During 
the present school year tests have 
been given to the Freshmen in the 
College of Engineering and to the 
Freshmen in the College of Indus
tries.
The students who take these tests 
sometimes know nothing more about 
them' than that they are required to 
take them and that the series of 
tests given requires about three 
hours. It will probably interst them 
to find out something about the pur
pose and value of the tests.
At the present time students are 
admitted to the Industries on the 
basis of their high school work. This 
method of deciding who shall be al
lowed to enter is not altogether sat
isfactory for many students are al
lowed to enter who are later dropped 
because of scholarship, or because 
they are not interested in their 
course or are not suited for it. If 
some students who are not fitted for 
a course are admitted to that course, 
there are probably also some stu
dents who are fitted for the course 
and who are interested in it but aro 
not permitted to enter because only 
a limited number of students can be 
accepted.
Can a group of tests be found 
which will help to determine what 
students should be allowed to enter 
certain courses? Some of the tests 
which have been given by the Depart
ment of Psychology have been shown 
to be of value in predicting the kind 
of work a student will do. The pre
dictive value of some of the tests 
is not known, but it is hoped that 
some of the new tests which were 
given this year will be found to havo 
value. .
Some of tho tests used are not In
telligence tests in any sense of the 
word and do not measure a students 
Intelligence. But there are probably 
other factors than intelligence which 
influence success in college. There 
may be certain social or character 
traits necessary for success in engi
neering, others necessary in the In
dustries, and still others in the Arts. 
Some of the tests given may show 
that different types of persons are 
fitted for different types of wor,k. If 
(Continued on Page Pour.i
\
> *v r'
SYMPHONY ORCHESTRA
CONCERT IN MUSIC HALL
NEXT SUNDAY EVENING
Students of the Department of Mu
sic, College of Fine Arts, Carnegie 
Institute of Technology, will give a 
symphony orchestra concert, conthicted by J. Vick OBrien, next Sunday 
evening in Carnegie Music Hall. Tho 
program:
Overture from Sakuntala. Goldmark
Violin Concerto in E, Op. 64............
....................................... Mendelssohn
AndanteAllegro molto vivace____
....................................... Mendelssohn
Max Silverman
Ballet music from Gioconda........
............................................. Ponchielli
(Intermission)
Variations Symplioniques for Piano
and Orchestra ...................... Franck
Oscar L. Helfenbeiu
Violoncello Concerto in D..........Lalo
Lento-Allegro Maestoso ..............Lalo
Charles C. Krane 
Vorspiel from Die Meistersinger. 
................................................. Wagner
JUNIOR PROM 
SURPASSES ALL 
PREVIOUS ONES
Juniors Dance Fulfills All 
Expectations  About 300 
Couples Present at Schenley 
Hotel
SENIOR TEA NEXT WEDNESDAY
The next Senior Tea will bo held 
next Wednesday in tho Margaret 
Morrison Recreation Hall. The teas 
held so far havo been very successful 
although the attendance at tho last 
one was not all that might be desired. 
All Seniors should plan on attending 
this one and should come on time, for 
two hours seems awfully short when 
a Senior Tea gets under way. Every 
Senior out. The usual assessment will 
bo charged at tho door. (Two bits).
MUSIC IS FEATURE
BeginDecorations For 
Fiesta en Granada
Arts Foyer to Represent Street 
In Moorish City
Work on the Arst Students' Ball, 
the Fiesta en Granada, has gotten 
into full swing and if there is any
body around who hasn't heard of tho 
ball, they are now commencing to 
learn of it by seeing, for Hughes' 
Wrecking Crew has started to Avorlc 
tearing down the old foyer and corri
dors and on the same site will erect 
a Moorish temple on tho main street, 
of Granada. Otto Olson had charge 
of designing the decorations while 
Charlotte Shuman will soe to their 
execution.
To give just an idea, it may bo 
said that the long corridor will as
sume the appearance of a street in 
old Granada. The long wall on - tho 
side towards the Deans office will 
ba lined with store fronts, booths* 
shop entrances and tho like. DifThe Junior Prom of the class of 
23! From the moment the MasonDixon Nine struck up the first bar of 
music until the home waltz at 2 
oclock the order of the evening was 
On with tho dancelet joy be uuconfined.
The orchestra was the feature of 
the eveningtheir music was perfect 
and it had a kick. The climax 
came when Skin Young sang I 
Wonder Who, in his inimitable fash
ion.
The grand march was. led off at 
9:20 by Alfred S. Vincent, president 
of the Arts Junior class.
Dancing followed until 11:30 at 
which time an excellent supper was 
served in tho dining room. Dancing 
was resumed at 1 oclock and all too 
soon were the notes of the homo 
waltz floating through the enchant
ing air of tho ball room.
Tho favors were an unexpected sur
priselittle silver wrist puffs, small 
dorines on a black silk wristlet with 
silver clasps. The programs wore 
plain white with an embossed C 
and gold Carnegie seal on tho front 
cover.
The ball room was decorated in 
smilax, palms and mountain laurel, 
and presented a pleasing and distinc
tive appearance.
The following patrons and patron
esses woro in attendance: Acting
Prosident Thomas S. Baker, Doan 
Laura B. Scales, Dean A. W. Tarboll, 
Diroctor and Mrs. .1, T. Morris, Di
rector and Mrs. E. R. Bossango, Di
rector and Mi$. W. E. Mott'and Mr. 
and Mrs,. Frank J. Lanahan. H. R.fused blue lightsi overhead together 
with other specilli lighting avrango- stahlman ana T. h. McGovoru ot tho
ments will lend a sky-like glow to 
the upper region. At each end will 
be the tea shops and refreshments 
while tho other long wall will rep
resent the front exterior of a largo 
Moorish temple'With the vaultod sec
tion, connecting the foyer and corri
dor, representing the entrance tot tho 
sacred chamber. Tho round foyor 
will be the interior of tho tomplo 
with Its big hanging lamps casting 
seml-weird shadows.
Then the exhibition will bo di'apod 
with bright shades of green, yellow 
and red. The entrance to tho exhi
bition room will, bo closed and a 
stage erected in front of the doors. 
Supper will bo served immediately 
following the show, linos passing 
through the library into tho exhibi
tion room whore there will bo some 
exceptionally interesting cabaret 
stunts during tho repast.
Under tho direction of itr.thur Lubin the entertainment Is boing 
worked up to bo the feature of tho 
evening. A one-act, five scone mu
sical comedy called The Princess' 
Slip, or A Momont in Old Granr 
ada," will ho presented. Tho book 
is by Lawrence Paquln. Original 
music and songs havo been worked 
up hy Fry, Snyder, Ilerzberg and 
Sclimerlz. Tho Scolding Song is 
one of the gems of the present pro
duction. A special ten-piece orchestra 
will supply music for the singers, 
dancers and chorus.
The play is in keeping with the 
ball, heing Moorish in plot, costume 
and setting. There are about twenty* 
five characters in the caste, the lead
ing parts being taken by Carl Reid, 
Eunice Osborne and Mary Llssfelt. 
Ross Hertz, Jack Williard and Adel
aide Zeile have the comedy parts. 
Nine rapturous, enthralling, alluring 
beauties make up the chorus which 
is being trained by Carl Heinrich, 
the dancing instructor, who is also 
directing four specialty dances.
The performance will commence 
at 12 oclock, last one hour and will 
only be presented once. /If it goes 
across well, it will most likely be 
enlarged 'and put on at the Schenley 
Theater sometime late in the year.
Post Ball Dance in Arts Foyer 
Saturday, February 18th
For the second time in the history 
of Carnegie Tech the students of the 
College of Fine Arts are inviting 
their fellow students of the Institute 
to participate in a Post Ball Dance, 
which is to take place in tho Arts 
Theater February 18.
It will be a revelation to those who 
come, for as they enter tho Foyer 
of the school they will have journey
ed thousands of miles in a few sec
onds and find themselves in a street 
of Ancient Spain. The decorations of 
the "Fiesta en Granada, which is to 
be the Arts' Ball this year, will still 
bo there.
The Post Ball Danco last year Is 
well remembered and at that time 
the other schools expressed a desire 
to repeat this each year,
Further information will appear In 
the Carnegie Tartan next week.
If you pass y<Ju have nothing to 
worry about. If you don't, one of
Junior class of Pitt woro guosta of 
tlio Prom.
Chairman Ropplior and tho meinhors of his commiltoo aro to bo con
gratulated upon tho groat success of 
"this - yoa'fs Promthey ' put' Lt across 
oxtromoly woll and too much orodlt 
can not bo glvon them,for thoir oxcollont work.
MANY PRil NCETON FRESH
MEN EARN EXPENSES
Moro than ono-fourth of tho num
ber of tho present Froslmmu claes 
of Princeton University aro either 
working thoir way through college or 
aro receiving aid in ,tho form of 
scholarships or remission ol! tuition. 
Tho occupation# Include everything 
from delivering newspapers to posi
tions as manager of tho students 
pressing or shoo-shlning establish
ments.
DR. BAKER SPEAKS TO PGH. 
SECTION OF A. S. C. E.
Acting President Dr. Thomas S. 
Balcor was tho principal speaker at 
a banquet held at the Hotel Chatham, 
Monday evening, January 30. He ad
dressed the Pittsburgh section of the 
American Society of Civil Engineers 
on political conditions In France.
Dr. Baker said in part that tho 
growing isolation In France in an in
ternational sense Is due to poor di
plomacy and to the French politi
cians. The French representatives 
to the Disarmament Conference came 
to this country with the hope and ex
pectation of winning back interest of 
the Americans, which they felt had 
been waning since the war, but the 
great ovation which Marshal Foch re
ceived was brought almost to naught 
by the stupid diplomacy of Frances 
delegates in Washington.
Senator Joseph I. France of Mary
land was introduced to the Credit 
Mens Association at their, luncheon 
last Tuesday by Secretary Baker.
CARNEGIE RAISES $734
FOR FOREIGN STUDENTS
In the Tartan of January 25th, I 
made a preliminary report of receipts 
amounting to $632.27 on the recent 
iStudent Friendship Drive at the In
stitute. A final report shows receipts 
of $7.34.85, and check for this sum, 
in the name of the faculty and stu
dents of Carnegie Institute of Tech
nology was sent on February 1st to 
George W. Perkins, Jr., National 
Treasurer, Student Friendship Fund, 
129 East 52nd street, Mew York City.
FRATERNITIES OPPOSE
DRINKING AT CORNELL
MUSICAL CLUBS TO 
MAKE LONG TRIP
Extended Tour To Cover 
Cleveland, Akron, Orrville and Painville
With the Tarentum. and New Ken
sington trips a thing of the past, tho 
clubs are looking forward to tho big 
events of tho season, .namely tho 
Ohio and Northern trips.
The Ohio trip starts Wednesday, 
February 15th, and will include the 
following stops: Orville, Akron,
Painesvillo and Cleveland. Tho clubs 
are assured of a vory successful trip 
as dances are boing planned to fol
low all concerts and a tea dance is 
to be given for tho boys at the Lake 
Erie College for Women on Saturday 
afternoon of tho trip. These dances 
will feature tho Tech- Novelty Or
chestra which will accompany the 
Musical Clubs on tho trip.
The Northern Trip.
Concerts will ho given at Corry. 
Erie and Oil City and this trip starts 
February 23rd. Both clubs aro round
ing into exceptional form and aro 
prepared to give concerts which will 
be as good, if not better than those 
of the largest musical clubs ol! tho 
country. Special rohoarsals will ho 
hold during this woolc Io perfect somo 
of tho specialties. Information concorning dates of departure, prepara
tion and tho names of tho mon mak
ing trips- will bo posited, so watch tho 
bulletin boards.
Carnegie Debating Team 
Has Intercollegiate Meets
Carnegie Toehs debating squad Is 
now HOttl.kig down. to a- porksd of 
oarnost work which Inevitably procodes any actual Intorcolloglato de
bate. Under tho Careful guidance 
of Profossor Peterson a squad Is be
ing drilled In the fundamental of 
argumentation and debate, which are 
applied in tho weekly debates hold 
botwoon various ton ms picked1 from 
tho members of the association. A 
successful year Is looked forward to 
and b'esldos several men from the 
toam of last yeifr there are some 
new mon out who havo had oxporl<- 
once In debato at other Institution. 
A mfm'bor of Carnogio men out for 
tho first time aro fast developing 
and competition for a place on pno 
of tho varsity teams In quite keen.
Negotiations aro still undor way 
for tho triangular dobato with Wash
ington and Jefferson and West Vlrgianla, wliilo a debato with Genova 
Is assured* A number of other ciol* 
logos havo rofiuostod a date on tho 
schedule Including Tholl, Grove City 
and University of Buffalo as woll as 
a woll known eastern collogo. Duo 
to tho multiplicity of questions 
which would bo Involved it Is proba
ble that debates with some of these 
colleges will not bo arranged this 
yoar.
It Is likely that three questions 
will be discussed including, tho 
Sales, Tax, the Railway Labor Board 
and , the Open Shop. Each of theso 
questions are prominent In economic 
and industrial affairs of today and 
are being given nation-wide atten
tion. Aside from the benefit which 
the debaters themselve get from a 
study of these problems there is an 
added opportunity for students at 
Carnegie to become versed in these 
topics by attendance at the debates.
A great deal of credit is due those 
who are working for the success of 
debating at this institution because 
of the amount of work involved in 
proper preparation, a work which 
goes on unheralded and yet requires 
a large amount of time and concen(Continued on Paero Four )
WESTMINSTER 
GAME ENDS IN 
PLAID VICTORY
Newman and Potter Absent 
From Carnegie Line-Up. 
Dosey Scores 17 Points For 
Tartan Team
LACK OF TEAM WORK
Last Thursday night the, Carnogio 
Tech lloormen defeated the West
minster live at Motor Square Gar
den by the scoro of 31 to 27.
The Carnegie quintet presented a 
lineup that resembled last years 
team with Boll, Dosey, Allen and 
Cribson, the only new men being 
Moessnor and Sawyor, this combina
tion being necessary due to New
mans sickness and Potter leaving 
the squad in order to' devote moro 
tune to liis scholastic work. Tho 
lack of team work on the ipart of 
the Carnegio squad was quite notice
able and their guarding was not 
closo enough to prevent tho West
minster oagemen from working the 
ball down tho floor and then making 
easy shots from under tho basket. 
The willingness of the guards to en
ter into scrimmages resulted in many 
fouls being called on both teams, 
Carnegie Tech securing nine pointsi 
on free throws and Westminster 11.
In Goldstrom, Westminster had an 
aggressive guard who succeeded in 
broaklng up Carnegie's offenslvo play 
(Contiuuod On Pago Two.)
Scalp and Blade Dance 
In Union Friday
Dance of Indians," To Be 
Given For The Four 
Schools
Tho Danco of tho Indians, an affair 
which Is going to bo Homethlug dif
ferent, Is booked for tho Union Fri
day night, February liO. This is tho 
first affair of Its kind and ali those 
who enjoyed tho Mardi Gras last, 
yoar aro Invited to present them:i 11 vos1 at 8:30 on Friday. All Buiffalo 
mon at Carnogio Teoli aro especially 
Invited and vjlll bo proaontd with 
a novel souvenir although there will 
hoi souvenirs lor all.
Tho Carnegie Tech Scalp and 
Blade under whoso auspices Ibo 
danco is to be hold Is an organiza
tion of Buffalo mon at Tech, Chair
man Book on behalf ol! the commit
tee wlslios to extend a hearty Invi
tation to the entire stud'ent. body to 
attend and becomo acquainted with 
the Buffalo mon.
Employment Bureau Report
That' tho Employment Bureau is 
lllllng a real need among tho stu
dents at Tech, especially those whoso 
pockotbooks dont bulge, Is shown 
by the following brief but concise 
report submitted last woolc by Mr. 
Batman of tho Employment Bureau. 
Mr, Batman is doing all In his powor to provide work for those desir
ing it and usks that all who use tho 
service give 'their closest co-opera
tion in every way.
Partial Time Employment for Wom
enOctober 1 to February 1.
Number Amount , 
Employed. Earned.
October .................... 80 $ 853.70
November ..............1G2 1,210.13
December ................234 1,526.35
January ................... 48 892.72
Total ..................524 $4,481.90
Part Time Employment for Men.
Number Amount 
Employed. Earned.
.... 355? 4,055.78
November ...... 4535,126.28
.... 5226,393.65
. ., . 005,800.06
$21,375.77
two things wi 
pass the re-e.f 
dont
happen. You will 
mination or you
Sixty fraternities and clubs of 
Cornell University havo Informed tho 
faculty that they will control anyj 
excessive uso of intoxicating, liquors 
among the students. The announce
ment was made recently by Donald 
R. Strickler, president of the Stu
dent Council and Chairman of the 
Social Affairs Committee.
The restrictions adopted by the 
fjtudent body bar liquor from fratern
ity houses, and will make an effort 
to prohibit indulgence in intoxicants 
at social functions.
Terror of Exams No Longer 
Haunts Carnegie Campus
What's the matter, John? Didnt you pass It?
Why, the d-------------------------7??? ------ didnt ask for a thing I knew. I
sat up all last night and then went In and he hands outoh, well, its no 
use, Ive flunked them before.
Each nlfjht last week saw the midnight oil burned to excess In the dor
mitories or the fraternities houses, each morning saw the early riser getting 
one last look at the book, which In a great many canes wa3 new to his eyes. 
Many a page, perhaps never gazed upon before furnished a source of study 
Just before the zero hour.
The dolly throng hurried over Morewood for one eight-thirty and one 
onc-thlrty. The campua lacked the titter of sociable and carefree oolleglans. 
8erl0UflneBU and soberness replaced the previously prenent Joyouonesn. No 
one had time to perch on the fence and watch tho Cut, wind or no wind. 
Dancea and smokers were farthest from ones mind, and even the Junior 
Prom occmed to deserve no place In our thought.
Frlendn passed un on the campus, yet they caw us not. Their eyes were 
open but their mind was concealed behind the cover of the blue exam book. 
The Y" hut was no longer a meeting place. Only study and thought pre
vailed beneath Its roof. The letter from her or the folks back home waited 
at the post office, sadly neglected.
The beanery double line was no more. A straggling, single line of those 
who could wait no longer asked for a plate of beans or corn fritters.
Occasionally a group just through, with a hard one showed a little sign 
of returning to normal but the haunting of the one coming on the morrow 
again buried them in silent thought.
But the exams are now a thing of memory and the past, save to a few 
who will see a second performance through the medium of the Re's. A---------------------------------------------------

TWOTHE CARNEGIE TARTANWEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 8, 1922
3>fo Carnegie
Published every week by undergraduates of the Carnegie Institute ol 
Technology under tho supervision o the Student ActivltleB Board.
Entered in the Postofflce of Pittsburgh as secon/t-class matter.
FREDERICK L. KNOWLES ............................................................ Edltor-ln-Chlpf
Telephone, Hazel 9898
WILLIAM R. MILLS .................................................................. Business Manager
TelephoneSchenley 9211
VIO. H. STROMQUIQT ............................................................... Managing Editor
TelephonesSchenley 9180 or Hi land 858
HELEN V. LEWIS............................................................................Associate Editor
TelephoneSchenley 0079
L. J. WHITEHEAD ...................................................................... Associate Editor
TelephoneSchenley 9070
EDWARD A. BRAND ................................................................................News Editor
Telephone-Schonley 9070
H. P. SIMPSON................................................................................ Athletic Editor
TolophonoSclionkn- 0070
n VV niTVTON ......................................................................... PhotogrnpHor
().' A. IHCICMAN ............................................................................. HxclninKO Editor
11. D. SONNEMANN ............................................................. AdvortlBlng Munugor
Tolophono-Schenley 9211 
E L REILLY ............................................................................ Circulation Manager
EDITORIAL ASSISTANTS
Gladys Boguo, M. Schumacher, II. F. Dieter, A. Lubln, Vincent Roy, 
P. C. MacKonzie, IT. H. Lefhowltt, II. II. Wilson, K. L. McKee, W. J. Bolton, 
l> Hortzmnn, F. T. Phelps, E. J. Maust, R. P. Hay, J. A. Dougherty, M. S. 
Downes, W. (J. Sullivan, F. C. Smith, L. Byerly, Berno, Gertrude Lyons.
 BUSINESS ASSISTANTS
.T. M. Cooper, E. Sowers, W. B. Cunningham, C. C. Kaltehliauser, J. C.
Major, F. H. Allison, A. D. Yoking, W. I. Miller, L. M. Landis, J. B. Laudlg
and P. F. Schucker. _______________________________________________________
The Editor-In-Chief is responsible for the policy of this paper; the 
Managing Editor for tho make up._________________________________________
Tho Tartan welcomes all communications of student interest. If signed, 
nlgnaturo will bo withhold if deslrod. All nows Items must bo in tho student 
post olllco before 4:30 Friday._____________________________________________________
Tartan OiflooRoom 5-A, Industries Building. Office lioursTuesday, 
11:30 to 1:00, Wednesday, 12:00 to 1:00.______________________
RESOLUTIONS
New Years may be tho time for resolutions for most people, but 
to a student, who lias just passed through a week of examinations, 
the beginning ol! a new semester is the time when faults are discard
ed and resolutions are made for the coming half year.
The most frequent remark heard after examinations was, Im 
going to keep up-to-date in my work from now on and I am going 
to study my lessons every day, not every week or month. That is 
a fine start. But to many it doesnt mean much. They are trying 
to justify themselves for thoir past work. That remark is inevitable 
after examinations. Some do better, but the majority by far fall 
into the same faults again.
The man who h,as the determination and will power to carry out 
his resolutions, succeeds without fail. The man who can not control' 
himself is rarely a success. If you havent .the will power to carry 
out your resolutions, its time you start developing yoursell. It 
must be done sooner or later if you are to realize your ambitions. 
This semester is a good time to start. Make more than earnest' effort 
to live by your own rules. You will be the better for it, so will your 
classmates. ________________________________________________________
Calendar of Student Events
WEDNESDAY, THURSDAY, FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 8, !), 10
DramaDon Juan  ............................................ 8:15, Arts Theater
FRIDAY, MBRUARY 10
DancoDance of Indians.....................................................8:30, Union
SATURDAY, FEBRUARY 11
Basket BallGirls Varsity vs Thiel.................3:00,P. M., Tech Gym
Basket BallCarnegie vs. Allegheny...............................8:15, Tech Gym
DramaLearned Ladies.........................................8:15, Arts Theater
SUNDAY, FEBRUARY 12 
ConcertCarnegie Tech Symphony Orchestra..................................
.........!............................................................H;()(), Carnegie.Music Hall
MONDAY, FEBRUARY 13
Chapel .............. ............................................................12150, Arts Theater
FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 17
DanceFiesta en Granada (Arts Ball).............9:00, Arts The a tor
Basket BallCarnogio vs. Buffalo.................................8:15, Teeh Gym
SATURDA Y, FEBRUARY 18
DancoPost Ball Da nee..............................................................8:30, Arts
Basket Ball'Carnegie vs. Genova................. ..................................There
Girls Baskoli Ball Team vs. Geneva...................................................There
SUNDAY, FEBRUARY 1!)
Conoerl;..........*.............................................................. 8:15, Arts Thoator
TUESDAY, FEBRUARY 21
DanceGambol ol! the Guilds (Four Schools)...............9|j00, Union
Basket Ball "Carnegie vs. Geneva..................................H:!15, Tech Gym
SATURDAY, FEBRUARY 25 
Smoker ScuMicr Sing.....................................S;i:i, Langley Laboratory
Bill Says
Senior Ball.
Mr. Senior, did you ovor stop o 
thing that you aro about to ontor 
tho hist lap of your college career, 
that youj aro about to sovor ties of 
friendships that havo boon tlio re
sult of intimate relation with your 
i fellow-classmen, and that tho last 
big social event of this class is 
close at handthe Annual Senior 
Ball? How about it?
With all of these facts staring you 
in tho face, it behooves every one 
of you to savo up your shekels for 
this event. Make that girl's wish 
come true. Boy, she is patiently 
awaiting for you to speak those little 
[words to herno not the ones you 
are thinking of, but an invitation 
to this event
The time is March the third, the 
place the Foyer of the Arlsi School, 
the musicoh, there is the treat, 
the girl we will leave to you.
Have you heard of the specialties? 
No, well you are to be held In sus
pense. The committee has vowed 
secrecy, and will not divulge these 
until a latter date.
Oh yes, tho price, we almost for
got to tell you that.four iron men. 
Now just a minute, don't till you 
yell profiteers, swindlers, etc.. until 
i'(ou learn that; we aro going to havo 
the 'boat orchestra in the country, 
and also catosoh. Naturally you aro 
wondering- what:, who, or how many 
cateson is. This Is ono ol! thoso 
secrets to 'bo rovoalod later.
The commlttoo consisting of Paul 
J). Unziokor, chairman; Harold C. 
dodden and Harry Rudy arc busy 
working out tho details of this jam
boree and yon will learn from tlmo 
to time through 'this publication of 
its progress.
SENIOR.
For the first;' time in tho history 
of Carnegie, new students are to be 
admitted in February; a logical step 
following the adoption of the semes
ter plan. The number will not be 
large this year, but it will Increase 
every year and will soon approach 
'that of the Plebe class admitted in 
the fall.
The incoming Freshmen will be 
under regulations, of course, hut it 
will be impossible to distinguish the 
Fall Plebe from the Winter Plebe.
NOTICES
The "Y swim will ho hold as 
usual on Wednesday at. tho Schenluy 
High School tank, at 7:30. Evoryono should come, practico for tho 
swimming team and earn a "C.
On February 21 a mighty Interest
ing film, ono that no one around 
Carnegie has seen, will be shown. 
Keep It in mind, as you will want 
to see tho film.
The 'Scalp and Blade will havo a 
regular business meeting in the Y 
Cluib Room, 124>A Industries, Sun
day, February 12, 1922, at .4:30.
The Musical Clubs will make the 
Ohio trip Wednesday, February 15, 
to Saturday, February IS, playing at 
Orrville on Wednesday, Akron on 
Thursday, Cleveland on Friday, and 
Painsville on Saturday. They will 
give a concert at Corry, Pa., on 
Thursday, February 23; Erie, Pa., 
Friday, February 24, and return to 
Pittsburgh, Saturday.
WESTMINSTER. GAME ENDS
IN PLAID VICTORY
(Continued From Pago One.} 
time and time again and his dose 
guarding compollod the Tartains to 
mako their baslcot-s on long shots 
from tho middle of itho court,
This Is obviously unfair to the Fall 
Plebe, who has boon hazed and has 
worked around tho campus. Ho will 
now be required to do moro work 
duo to the inability of tho Sophs to 
distinguish between tho two Plobo classes
Tho Fall Plobo is under regula
tions for eight months while tho 
Winter Plobo will bo under regula
tions only threo or at the most fivo 
months.
There are two methods of averting 
this condition. Tho first is to abol
ish all regulations for tlio Fall 
Plebes after the opening of 
the second semester. Tho second 
is to make the Winter Plebes wear 
some mark in dress to distinguish 
them from the Fall Plebes.
Something must be done to square 
things with the Plebes entering in 
the Fall, and now Is the time to> 
think about it
rnltiatlvc.
Initiative- do you have it? That 
internal, silent force that shoves you 
forward; that reaches out from your 
innermost regions and tells you to 
do something. Aro you inspired with 
tho feeling to start things, to plunge 
Into the seemingly impossible and 
bring yourself to a successful end? Is 
your energy potential or Is It kine
tic? Do you have to be pushed or of 
your own free will do you venture 
into now tilings?
The schools most prominent stu
dents aro the ones who have initi
ative, A pocullar feeling within them 
prompts them to great undertaking, 
and once started that same Internal 
characteristic of the Jiving carries 
them on to achievement.
Are you one of tho typo that hangs 
back; that lets tho other fellow do 
it? Havo.you no desire to get into 
activities and mako an entry into 
tho better things in life? If you are, 
mako a start. Search within your 
own makeup for a trace of that hither
to unknown virtue. Bring It to the 
light, throw off your robe of inac
tivity, enter into the better side of 
lifo and make Carnogio, your Alma 
Mater, more than an Institution of 
learning. ' Make it the corner stone 
of your future life, the foundation of 
that which everyone deems as the 
Ideal.
WASHINGTON
CONFERENCE
The five-power naval limitation 
treaty may be said to have the fol
lowing consequences:
The United States gains for itself 
the prestige of a really quite consid
erable voluntary restricting of its 
own power. Able financially to out
build Britain it contents itself with 
an equality with Britain, and it even, 
for a certain length of time, sur
renders to Britain a certain margin, 
of superiority in capital ship tonnage. 
Abfe to overwhelm Japan in the ,Far 
East it binds itself not to build cap
ital ships exceeding Japans in ton
nage, total by moro than five to 
three," and it thereby deprives itself 
(as long as that ratio persists) of all 
power to take the initiative in an of
fensive naval war against Japan in 
the Far East. v
The decision to accept a naval 
equality with Britain can be defend
ed on other than moral grounds. Brit
ains coal stations and oil stations 
and navail bases, scattered throughout 
the world, aro so numerous and so 
strategically located that in order to 
conduct a successful offensive naval 
war against a fleet possessing them, 
and using them, we should bo oblig
ed to have a fleet certainly at least 
twice as largo. But long before we 
had built a fleet twice as large as 
Britains, wo naturally would find 
oursolvos in a war with Britain; be
cause Britain manifestly would not 
ho so stupid as to await inactively 
tho completion of American naval 
plans which could destroy the Brit
ish Empire,
Oar financial ability therefore to 
out-bulld Britain is In a way balanced 
by Britains ability t,o stand us 'off 
through its strategical strength of posltion in Europo and Africa and Asia. 
Tho reasonable thing thenaside 
from all questions of tho morals pf 
tho matterwould bo to conic to a 
compromise. Tho compromise of 
equality moans that Britain cannot 
offensively fight us In American 
waters, and that wo cannot offensive
ly fight Britain in European or Afri
can or Asiatic waters.
Tho situation thoroforo bocomes 
tho following ono: In the waters sur
rounding the body of land callod 
North and South Amorloa, thoro will 
bo ono groat fleet. la tho waters sur
rounding tho body of land called Eu
rope and Africa and Asia, there will 
bo ono groat Uloot possessed by a sot 
of Islands lying off Its extreme' West
ern slioros and another fleet threefourths as great, possessed by a set 
of Islands lying off its extreme East
ern shoros. Each of these threo 
fleets, being unlimited by the treaty 
as to its total tonnage of submarines 
and of small surface vessels and of 
aircraft, can make itself invincible 
defensively in its own region. Each 
of thorn boing strictly limited by the 
treaty as to Its capital ships, is de
prived of all effective power of of
fensively leaving its own region, un
less new scientific discoveries should 
give to submarines and to small sur
face vessels and to aircraft a much 
greater radius of unsupported offen
sive action than they now possess.
In other words, we see a sort of 
partition of the seas. The United 
States takes the American seas. The 
British Empire takes the European 
and Africah and Southern Asiatic 
seas/ Japan takes the Far Eastern 
seas. The United States lias posses
sions in the Japanese region and in 
the American region. The British 
Empire has possessions in the 
Japanese region and in tho American 
region. Japan has possessions in only 
its own region. This Japanese strate
gic advantage is counter-balanced In 
some dogroo by an accepted Japan
ese inferiority in capital ships. The 
son, is ono," said tho old proverb, 
"and thoro can bo only ono dominant 
fleet. Wo now attempt by moans of 
tho limitation of capital ship tonnagp 
to repeal that proverb and to say 
"tho sea Is throe and It shall have 
three dominations on it In throo In
vincibly dofomlod rogions."
This result shows no abandonment 
of tho Idea of tho uso of armed force 
In the world but it shows, neverthe
less, a strong move toward prevent
ing that, idoa from necessitating a 
world-wide war for the establishment 
of a single world-wide dominating 
rule. The credit for that degree of 
advantage must be granted primar
ily to the United States and then in
cidentally to tho quarrel between 
France and Britain regarding subma
rines. The limitation program of the 
United States curtailed the offensive 
power of fleets in capital ships. The 
quarrel between France and Britain 
prevented all curtailment of the deI am only. A poor science man. But 
manys the time. When I got so sick 
and tired. Of looking at. Log tables 
and Integrals and slide rules. I felt 
like jumpin over tho bridge. But I 
walk up. And pass Design School and 
see a lot of autos. Out of which step-, 
ped. Beautifully clad ladies and their 
spotlesH escorts. Going to a play. And 
I often thot. How happy Id be. If 
only I could have a Beat. At one of 
those plays. But always when I went 
to tho door, I was'Stopped and had to 
walk Till all the luclty ones got 
seated. And then maybe. They would 
lot me in and stand thru the . whole 
show. But I v/as often so, tired I had 
to come home and go back to my fig
ures.
But now its different. For a vener
able man. With now white hair. 
Whose face I always liked to see. On 
the campus or at the beaneries. Has 
with a stroke of tho pen. Shown. That 
ho truly has. The interests of, the 
students. First Jn his heart. For he 
has decreed that more tickets shall. 
Be set aside for the use. of myself. 
And the likes of me. At all the shows. 
So that now I can get more out of my 
education here. Besides somo nights 
of relaxation. From things so scien
tific. I can never say how much. I ap
preciate his favour. But I hope he 
will understand. Thank You. Dr. 
Baker.
ROAMER.
REPLY FROM
SHILLING CRITIC
To the Editors of the Carnegie Tar
tan:
Gentlemen:
A former leader of that unique Or
ganization, Tammany Hall, guided 
his successful career upon this mot
to: "Never write a letterand never 
burn one.
Perhaps it is the belief that this 
gentleman was right which has made 
me hqsitate- for some time, before 
writing you; and it is with a full con
sciousness of the dangers involved 
that I set out in what I hope will be 
a satisfactory explanation.
It appears that I am the innocent 
author of much Indignation. I have 
called Puppet an impertinence! Well, 
I thlnlc Puppet ought to be pleased 
flattered. Puppets business is to be 
impertinent; if Puppet has a fault, it 
Is that it is not impertinent enough. 
A humorous paper taking anything 
seriously Is a paradox, and not a very 
clever one In most cases. It is only 
when our humorist puts off cap and 
bells and dons cowl and cassock that 
he bores us.
Tartan, too, has a grievance, and 
editorializes over it: "Things which
the local colony of editors have re
garded with bare I civility, or was it 
worded so?
Well, Tartan, tjiose words did not 
refer to your English, which is gen
erally creditable Upough, nor to. your 
failure to review Tho Shilling as 
promptly as might have been. No, 
those wordsclearly enough, to me 
referred to the fine arts: literature, 
music, painting, drawing.
"Behold how groat a matter a lit
tle fire lcindleth.
I havo boon misunderstood. You, 
too, havo felt yourself Injured; Pup
pet has felt Itself wronged. Lets all 
forgive and malco up. I shall be more 
careful noxt time. Words, as we all 
should realize, aiJe as dangerous as 
dynamite, and should bo handled' 
with greater caro than tlioy are.
Sincerely,
CONTRIBUTOR.
CHAS L. TAYLOR, CARNEGIE
INSTITUTE TRUSTEE, DEAD
(Continued From Pago One.) 
Schwab. Tho following two years 
ho was gonoral manager of the Hart
man Stool Company, another Carne
gie Interest, and from 18D0 to 1892 
ho was assistant secretary of Carne
gie Phipps & Co., Limited. The fol
lowing year he was appointed assist
ant to tho president of the Carnegie 
'Steel Company, Limited, with gen
eral supervision over all works of 
the company, and he held this posi
tion until his retirement In 1901, 
when the 'Carnegie interests were absorbed.
At the time of the absorption of 
the Carnegie Steel Company by the 
United 'States Steel Corporation, Mr. 
Taylor was connected with the for
mer concern as ,one pf the original 
partners of the company. The mer
ger of the concern that created the 
corporation marked the end of Mr. 
Taylors active business career.
Until the time of his death Mr. 
1 aylor served as secretaiy of the 
Carnegie Veteran Association, which 
was made up of the original part
ners of Mr. Carnegie.
Other Carnegie interests served 
by Mr. Taylor were the Carnegie Li
brary, the Carnegie Institute, and the 
Carnegie Corporation of New York,, 
the last being the Institution that ad
ministered the, Carnegie residuary 
estate, and the Carnegie endowment 
for international paee, of which 
Ellhu Root, is president. Each of 
these Mr. Taylor served asi trustee.
He yetlred from active business In 
1901, when tho Carnogio Company 
was morgod into the United States 
Stool Corporation, and became chair
man of tho Cajjncgio Relief funds. 
Whcvn Mr, 'Carnogio ondowed tho 
hero fund ho selected Mr. Taylor 
president of tho commission of 28 
members. When ho created tho 
Carnogio Endowment for Internation
al Peace, December 12, 1910, he 
named Mr. Taylor as one of the 2S 
trustees of a fund of ?10,000,000. 
Tho next year Mr. Carnegie appoint
ed Mr. Taylor one of eight trustees 
of a gift of $125,000,000 to Iperpetuate his philanthropic works.
fensive power of fleets in smaJl craft 
nnder the seas and on the surface of 
the sea and in the air. Offense Is 
clipped. Defense ils left free and the 
principal achievfflM might seem in 
hope to be: "Pnifcition and Peace. 
KVILLIAM HARD.
DRAMA DEPT. CELEBRATES
MOLIERE TERCENTENARY
The Moliere tercentenary is being 
celebrated all over the world at the 
present time, although the most at
tention to the honoring of this famous 
author is being paid him in his na
tive France. One of the few colleges 
in America that is giving any especial 
effort to the perpetuating of his mem
ory is Carnegie Tech. "Moliere Week 
is now being observed by productions 
of two of his best plays in the Arts 
theater every evening this week. The 
plays are "The Learned Ladies, di
rected by Donald Robertson of Chi
cago, the most noted authority on 
Moliere and the romantic method of 
production in the United States today, 
and "Don Juan, translated and di
rected by Thomas Wood Stevens. 
"Learned Ladies" has been perform
ed in this country somewhat recently, 
but the production of Don Juan on 
Wednesday evening will, as far as 
any record can be found, be the first 
of this Moliere tragi-comedy in this 
country, and only the sixteenth time 
it has ever been enacted since writ
ten. The historical facts connected 
with Its production and that of 
"Tartuife in the seventeenth century 
are very interesting, and explain in a 
measure the reason for its few pre
sentations.
"The Learned Ladies, in which 
the leading parts are played by Mr. 
Paquin, Miss Dice, Miss Kaufman and 
Mr. Caldwell, is being played Mon
day, Tuesday and Saturday nights, 
and "Don Juan, with Mr Willard, Mr. 
Hertz, Miss Gray and Mr. Lubln, will 
be seen Wednesday, Thursday and 
Friday evenings.
If you repeat, you have nothing to 
worry about. If you leave you will 
go to work. It will be just three 
years ahead of the time you expect 
to start to work and youll be that 
much to the good.
So why worry.
Complete Your Education
Are you sacrificing your Person
ality on the Altar of Achievement? 
In other words, are1 you studying too 
hard to go out?
The main trouble with students is 
that they think too much about 
school. Forget It once in a while 
and go out and enjoy pourself.
Don't become a Fossil imbedded 
in a strata of books. You wouldnt 
be here if Columbus hadn't gone out 
once in a whilte.
Your parents sent you to school to 
get an education, not to become a 
calculating machine.
Get out and see what people think 
and do.
Youve got to rub elbows wdth peoplle when you start out, and you 
may as well begin now.
If you're lucky, you've got four
years here. They will be the best
of your life if you make them so.
Remember! You've got a long
time to work after yoU get out.
If you Hearn to make friends you've 
got more than Tau Beta Pi can give 
you.
Variety is the spice of life. Flavor 
yours. F. C. S.
MURRAY RESTAURANT 
Squirrel Hills Exclusive Dining 
Room.
Corner
FORBES AND MURRAY AVE. : 
Squirrel Hill.
Hazel 9373.
Fancy and extreme dress for co-eds 
must go, say the women of the Uni
versity of Chicago. They ruled that 
the costume of the college girl'should 
consist of a pleated or plain wool 
skirt and woolen or jersey jacket^ 
white waist or blouse, with low-heel
ed shoes. Skirts should be about IS 
inches from the ground. ,
Invitations, tickets, programs, fa
vors, pennants, pillow tops, etc., may 
be ordered through Singer Pen and 
Gift Shop in Jenkins Arcade.
AUFHAMMER & EVANS
HATS and MENS FURNISHINGS
6100 PENN AVENUE
......JACQUES DANCING ACADEMY f
CRAIG AND FORBES STREET 
Member of A. N. A. M. of D. Open All Year. y
BELL PHONE A
Classes each evening. Private lessons dally, y
A SCHOOL NOT A PUBLIC DANCE HALL *:*
&r:
BELLEFIELD 
SHOE REPAIR
FINEST WORK
OPPOSITE LIBRARY
Oakland Community House
TAKE YOUR CHOICE
WEEK DAYS
Cliess or checkers.
Pool Tournament.
Latest magazines.
Study room.
Play and sing.
Club, frat or committee meetings.
Just visit.
SUNDAYS
Bible Study Classes..............................10:00 A. M.
Quiet......................................Sunday afternoon
Friends, fellowship, refreshments and a helpful
young peoples meeting.............5:30-7:30 P. M.
Information and friendly help any time.
Oakland Methodist Church and 
Community House 
FORBES AND BOQTJET STREETS
l5M9M5I5I5M5iSI5/5/5i5i5/5/BlSJ5i5/5/5iBM5iSi5i5I5JS/Si5i5JS/S/SJSJ0J5IS/5JBIc!iSJ5JB/BJ5JSJ5J5J5I5fi
THE BEST DANCE FLOOR 
In Pittsburgh is that of the
DUQUESNE GARDEN 
BALL ROOM
Schedule your next party on the Garden floor. For private reser
vations see Paul Qualtrough, manager, or M. F. Lane at Duquesne 
Garden, or call Schenley 3106.

---------------------------------------------------

THE CARNEGIE TARTANWEDNb
PLAID ATHLETICS
ATH. COUNCIL APPROVES 
GIRLS ATHLETIC ASSN
Kirkpatrick in charge of her base-1 
ball prospects, and it is felt sure that 
he will make a great success. Kirk, 
as the boys all know him, is a great 
favorite with everybody, because of 
his good nature, and when he starts 
spreading this good nature out on the 
baseball diamond and his charges, 
good results are bound to arrive.
Kirkpatrick, during his playing 
days was a member of the Brooklyn 
Dodgers,' National League' team, and 
of recent days, manager of the Alu
minum team.
HONUS WAGNER NOT 
TO COACH BASEBALL
1922 TENNIS SCHEDULE 
NEARLY COMPLETED
With the Tennis schedule appear
ing in the Carnegie Tartan today, 
spring seems to be getting nearer 
and nearer. Add to this the appear
ance of the baseball schedule of a 
few weeks ago.
There are many high spots in the 
tennis matches to be played this sea
son, and the home games far over
shadow any previous home matches. 
Lehigh will be brought to the Car
negie Tech courts for the first time 
in many years. Syracuse will make 
their first appearance in two years. 
Besides these such teams as WashJeff. W. Virginia, Marietta, Allegheny 
and others will appear on the home 
courts.
Two very interesting trips are be
ing planned, and both should come 
through in wonderful style. A trip is 
already piractically 'completed with 
Penn State and Bucknell, while an
other trip, either to the East or to the 
West will be completed. Either one 
of the latter pbssibilities will be most 
acceptable.
The tennis equipment at Carnegie 
is most up-to-date, and will no doubt 
this year far surpass that of previ! ous years in that the courts will be 
very well seasoned through two Avinters, while the equipment owned by 
the Tennis Club will be kept up to 
the highest standards. Last season it 
1 will be remembered that Carnegie
 Tech, through the functioning of the 
Tennis Club initiated a new innova tion in Collegiate Tennis Circles by 
i installing a score board system. Many 
i complimentary remarks were also 
I heard on the wonderful manner in
which aill Carneglie Tournjamejnts 
were conducted, it being such that 
1 there were none other so good in col
legiate circles. This remark was ac
tuated by our umpiring system, in 
, which a full quota of umpires, lines, men/ and a referee in a high chair 
were always present throughout 
every match of every tournament. 
With the Tennis' Club behind the stu
dents and the team in every way 
compatible with their constitution, 
there is no reason why the good work 
should not be continued in the fu
ture.
If you know it you have nothing; 
to worry about. If youi dont, one| 
of two thing& will happen. Youll 
(be lucky or you wont.
Enos Kirkpatrick, Formerly 
With Dodgers, New 
Mentor
Girls Play Thiel In Gym. On 
Saturday at 3 P. M,
The basket ball gamo this week 
Saturday nightwill bo with Alle
gheny College, and instead of at tho 
Motor Square Garden, will be playod 
in tho Tech gym. Now seats havo 
been placed around tho balcony, thus 
increasing tho . seating capacity over 
that of last season. But, at that tlio 
capacity is much loss than the Motor 
Square Garden, and a case of first 
come, best served will be tho caso. 
So It is therefore suggested that all 
come early, and be assured of a good 
vantage point.
Allegheny surprised the Carnogio 
passers a few weeks ago, and hand
ed them a 2S-22 trimming up in Moadville. Tho Tartans aro out for re* 
vengo, and this coupled with tho fact 
that they aro playing 011 thoir home 
lloor, should add zest to the affair, 
and tend to make it a whirlwind af
fair from beginning to end.
A preliminary game will bo played 
by tho Freshman team of "Bob Wad
dells with a team of the Pittsburgh 
district; just who, has not been de
cided, but at any rate, will be a pleas
ure to see this Freshman team in ac
tion. So far they have not beon ex
tended, and expect to continue their 
good work in tho future games. They 
combine speed, headworlc, and excel
lent passing ability.
And, to mako tho day complete, 
tliero will bo a girls gamo in tho aft
ernoon. The Girls Varsity takes 011, 
and we hope, "into camp tho Girls 
Varsity of Thiol College. Tills will 
talco place at 3 p. 111. in tho Toch gym 
Saturday afternoon.
Announcement that Honus Wagner 
will not coach the Carnegie Tech 
baseball team will be received with 
much surprise, and regret, for the 
Grand Old Man has always been a 
most popular figure around the base
ball diamond, and his presence here 
at the school has been attended with 
a success far outshining his material. 
Honus business demands so much of 
liis time, that he cannot find that 
needed to appear regularly on Tech 
Field with the team, and for that rea
son he has decided not to continue 
liis services. This is much to the re
gret of the Athletic Council, and of 
the students and public at large, who. 
found great pleasure in seeing the 
Grand Old Man romp around with his 
youthful charges.
But in the absence of Honus, Enos 
Kirkpatrich, of Cafeteria fame, will 
occupy the limelight. Carnegie Tecli 
is most fortunate in being able to 
place a player of the calibre of Enos
TENNIS SCHEDULE, 1922
xlpril 2SLehigh, Here.
May 5W. & J., here.
May 6West Virginia, here.
May 10Bethany, there.
May 12Grove City, here 
May 18 to 20Planning trip. 
May 24W. & J.. there (pending) 
May 26Bucknell, there (pend
ing).
May 27State, there.
May 30Bethany, here.
June 1Marietta, here.
June 3West Virginia, there. 
June 5Allegheny, here.
June 9Allegheny, there.
June 10Grove City, there.
June 13Syracuse, here (pend
ing).
This is for .the ladies as well as 
the , gentlemen. When your suit 
needs cleaning or pressing call 
Schenley 389. We will call for it 
and deliver it. Our work is the 
best, our service quick, our prices 
reasonable. Miss OLeary, 3933 
Forbes street.
O. K. RESTAURANT 
A. WALTER, Propr. 
116 OAKLAND AVENUEMen-Get Here Early
We are just cleaning up the 
remaining pairs of Stetson 
Winter Oxfords.
You'll find several extremely 
smart and popular lasts. Extra
ordinary values at our clear
ance price.
One like illustration in Tan or 
Black. Perforations on Vamp 
and Toe. Fibre waterproof 
middle strip in soles.
Clearance A 
Price...........................^9.49
We Fitted Feet for Pifty Years
Why worry about oxams? Heros 
all it amounts to. Either you know 
your subject or, you dont
ton team of Youngstown near tlio 
end of the season.
Tho scholastic coaching plan was 
reported by Hondomm as approvod 
Iby tho Student Council, and that 
Marshall Garo had beon placed in 
ohargo.
Oakland Savings 
& Trust Co.
Member Federal 
Reserve System
Capital......................$200,000.00
Surplus and Undivided
Profits...................$300,000.00
Deposits, Over - - $4,000,000.00 
SAFE DEPOSIT BOXES 
FOR RENT
ECHOES FROM THE STUDENTS
Whore, oh, whoro, Is our now Gym "gonna bo? And when?
PENN AND FRANKSTOWN 
EAST LIBERTY
ACORN STORAGE BATTERY 
COMPANY 
4521 FORBES STREET 
RADIO SUPPLIES 
Vernier Air Condenser, Sada 
Switches, B Batteries, ACE 
Sockets, V. T., Etc.DAVIES & HUGHESTECH STATIONER 
NEWS, CIGARS, CANDY, ETC. 
WATERMAN, MOORE, PARKER, 
CONKLIN FOUNTAIN PENSC. M. Stauft
ASHES
Does any alumni know anyone OL.XI has a lot of ashes and wants a dump
ing ground? Tech Field says: "Tho pleasure will bo all mlno!
In other words, ashes aro noodod to lay tho foundation of tho now Toch 
Field, and It is thought Chat tliero might bo many pooplo who aro hauling 
ashes and are desirous Of a dumping ground. Tech Field is that dumping 
ground!
Got in touch, with Graduate Manager Haaron.
HATTERS AND MENS FURNISHERS 
3615 FORBES STREET, OAKLAND NEXT STRAND THEATER
Succonnorn to(gjajsjais/a/aaMSMaMaMSMaiaMaMaMaMSMSMSMSMSMSieMaMa/aMaMSiMSMaiSjaj
| PlioneCourt 3556
j Honus Wagner j j Sporting Goods Company j
I 438 WOOD STREET 1I iSporting Goods of Every Description.
Liberal Discounts to Students. 1I] B
SKIBO INN |
Remodeled and
Enlarged $
CLEAN, I
WHOLESOME |
ARRTYServed at best prices X 
CIGARS CANDY
COSMO CLUB HOLDS
PLAYS OF NATIONS
(Continued From Page Ono.)
1 Islands, Poland, Rouinania, Russia,
! Servia, Sweden and the United! 
States of America.
Regular meetings are held twlco a 
month. In addition to business 
transacted at each meeting a pro
gram is propared, consisting usually 
of ai musical number and such. A 
discussion of topography, customs, 
mannors and government of ono 
country is presented by its represen
tative men at a meeting. Consuls, 
vice consults and mon Interested In 
international affairs are procured1 as 
speakers.
The club also maintains: dramatic, 
literary and musical departments.
Periodically a meeting night Is as
signed to each nationality which has 
enough, representatives to enable it 
to present an entertainment, which 
in its entirety, is characteristic of 
that nation. For example, the fol
lowing nights have been set aside: 
Hebrew night, Italian night, Rouman
ian night, French night, Hindu 
night. The last named will be given 
February 15, in the Carnegie Union. I 
At frequent intervals the club holds 
dances for its members and friends.
The official language of the club 
is English, and the strictest neutral
ity in religious .and political  ques
tions is always maintained.
The officers are not directly elect
ed, but the members elect seven 
members to a committee of man
agement, which elects officers among 
themselves for the year. The com
mittee must be composed of at least 
threff' members from Carnegie Tech, 
and three members from Pitt, the 
seventh member being elected at 
large.
The affairs of the club for the 
remainder of the scholastic year are 
as follows: Ohairman, Jpse R. Palomo; vice chairman, Lydia R. Paige; 
treasurer, Mariano Tirona; secretary, 
Desmond T. McTighe.'
The big or little
companywhich?
WHEN the talk turns to where should a 
fellow start work, a question arises on 
which'college men naturally take sides.
Youll lie buried in the big company, uy 
some. Everything is red tape and depart
ments working against each other.
Your little company never gets you any
where, others assert. The bigger the 
company the bigger your opportunity.
And that seems truebut in a different 
sense. Not physical size but bigness of purpose 
should be our standard for judging an indus
trial organization just as it is forjudging a nian.
Where will you find this company with 
a vision?
"Whether its plant covers a hundred acres 
or is only a dingy shop up three flights is on 
the face of it no indication of what you want 
to knowis such and such a company more 
concerned with developing men and ideas than 
boosting profits at the expense of service?
You must look deeper. What is the or
ganizations standing in the industry? What do 
its customers say? What do its competitors say ?
There are industries and there are companies 
which offer you every opportunity to grow. 
Spiritually they are as big and broad as the 
earnest man hopes to build himself. If you 
are that kind of man you will be satisfied with 
a company of no lower standards.
Conversely, if you are working for such a 
big-souled company, the very fact will argue 
that you yourself are a man worth while. For 
in business as in social life a man is known by 
the company lie picks.
The subtle something that 
makes your college different 
from any other, and dearer 
to you, than all the rest com
bined. In cigarettes, its the 
signal success that makes so 
many college men of discrim
ination prefer Melachrino, 
the one cigarette sold the 
world over.
Tech Plebes Defeat
Duquesne Freshmen
y Published in \ 
the interest of Elec
trical Development by 
an Institution that will 
be helped by what
ever helps the 
\ I ndustry.
Remember that Melachrino is a master 
blend or" the finest Turkish Tobaccos 
as originated by Miltiades Melachrino. 
Egyptian cigarettes are simply those 
mac originated in Egypt. But the to
bacco is what you want to know about 
 and if its Melachrino  its right
Carnegie Tech Plebes again broke 
into the win column by setting 
down the highly touted Duquesne 
University High School five to the 
tune of 35 to 20.
Tho Duke coach refereed tho sec
ond half of the gamo on special re
quest of Bob Waddell and he proved 
one of the best referees yet seen in 
a Tech Plebe game.
Just before tho game "Midge" Mat
ter, the star forward, was elected 
captain of the Plebes.
The entire Duke team played a 
hard, fast game throughout and kept 
the Plebes hustling every minute. 
The difference between the two 
teams was hardly as great as the 
score would indicate. >.
The electrical industry needs men who can 
sec fur and think straight.
An organization which holds for its 
ideal the hope that it may measure up 
to the aspirations of those who work 
in it.
The Cigarette Elect of All Nations

---------------------------------------------------

FOURTHE CARNEGIE TARTANWEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 8, 1922
Alumni Federation to 
Hold Annual Party Soon
3. M. 8IE8EL8CIENCE
'08 MAKING GOOD
S. M, SIohoI, CIvJl Engineer Sci
ence, 08, Jiuh JuhL been awarded a 
?(500,000 contract building the LangJoy High School at Shoradqn. Mr. 
BIoboI'b office In located at 1001 Flint 
National Dank building and the 
Alumni office In Kind to know that he 
In to bo In our mldnt for quite, a while. 
Ho ban jufit completed the Benjamin 
Franklin Junior High School, New 
(Jmitle, Pa. With till Information we 
can add to our Hat the name of an
other Carnegie graduate who In mak
ing good and reflecting glory on bin 
Alma Mater.
MARGARET MORRISON ALUMNAEARTS FACULTY EXHIBITION
AT CARNEGIE INSTITUTE
ioiiiiBiniuiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiniiiniiniiiiiiiiiiiiiininniniiiiisiiiiinnniiiininniiDQiinnicnir 
Tech Barber Shop 
Nearest to Tech.
Cor. Craig and Forbes 
Fred Fargel, Proprietor 
Nearest and Best 
Laundry Agency.
CLAN NEWS
DO NOT DELAY any longer but 
flend In your request for dance tick
et at once. The ale of ticket for 
the dlnner-dance to be given by the 
M. M. A. A. In tho Rec Hall Febru
ary 14th N.I2I2 on the 10th 2I you 
have not a minute to .I0IC It AR im
perative that tho committee in charge 
know how muny dinner to provide, 
ho pleaHO co-operate. The plan are 
ull complete and a large turnout is 
anticipated. The tax for dinner and 
dance if* ^2.50 a couple, for the dance 
alone $1.50. Ticket can be obtained 
only from Marion Keofer, Margaret 
MorrlHon College, Carnegie Institute 
of Technology. You may bring your 
friend If you wlBli.
(Continued From Page One.) 
signs. Professor Norwood MacGilvary 
is one of the latest additions to the 
department and a man of national 
reputation.
The Department of Applied Art has 
very lately affiliated itself with the 
College of Fine Arts. The work of this 
department has become very popular 
within the last few years, as the art 
of home decoration has advanced. 
Wearing, pottery, jewelry, batik, as 
well as oils, sketches and water col
ors constitute the work of this de
partment. Sculpture under Mr. Nebel 
is a credit not only to the depart
ment itself, but also to the Depart
ments of Painting and Illustration, 
Architecture and Applied Art, with 
which it is closely co-ordinated.
The Department of Drama is ob
serving the three hundredth anniver
sary of Molieres death by holding a 
Moliere Tercentenary Festival this 
week in the Arts Theater. They will 
give two plays by Moliere; 6ne, The 
Learned Ladies, produced February 
sixth, seventh and eleventh; the 
other, Don Juan, will be given the 
eighth, ninth and tenth. The exhibit 
at Carnegie Institute includes Paint
ings and Settings and Scene Design 
and Costumes, the work of faculty 
members.
Because of the nature of the Art of 
Music this department will be unable 
to make any permanent exhibition, 
but will give several concerts in the 
galleries on Tuesday, Wednesday and 
Friday, February seventh, eighth and 
tenth, at 8 oclock. There will also be 
lectures by Mr. Sandek on Instru
ments of the Modern Orchestra, on 
Sunday, February 26th, at 4:30 p. m., 
illustrated by ten or twelve students 
and members of the faculty. The pur
pose and musical quality of each in
strument will be explained and illus
trated by short themes on the vari
ous instruments. The students of the 
Department of Music will give a Sym
phony Concert in Carnegie Music 
Hall on Sunday, February 12th. It 
will be conducted by Mr. J. Vick 
OBrien.
The exhibition is so comprehensive 
that it will prove a revelation to the 
peop-le of Pittsburgh, who, although 
knowing something of the Carnegie 
Institute of Technology, do not real
ize the scope of its work and what it 
is accomplishing in the field of the 
Fine Arts as well as in training men 
and women as engineers and techni
cal experts.
Students are urged to attend this 
exhibition to gain an appreciation of 
what a truly versatile and proficient 
faculty Carnegie possesses in the 
College of Fine Arts.
NOTICEI
All viltlng Carnegie Tech men and 
women are cordially invited to at
tend the different meeting.
PITTSBURGH CLAN
The meeting of the Pittsburgh 
Clan held Saturday, January 28, was 
one of the best ever held. It was that 
sort of a meeting that' encourages and 
inspires everyone to do more for the 
Institution. A similar party will be 
held either the Jatter part of Febru
ary or the first part of March. De
tails of this meeting will be publish
ed in a later issue of the Tartan.
Will Ee Similar to That of 
Last Year  To Be 
Informal.
NEW YORK CLAN
Once more the Alumni Office calls 
the attention of Carnegie graduates 
to the annual meeting of the New 
york CJan to be held February 25 in 
the Green Room of the MacAlpin 
Hotel. Representatives from Pitts
burgh, Harrisburg, Philadelphia and 
other clan cities will be present for 
thl meeting. C. B. Connelley, Com
missioner of Industry and Labor for 
the state of Pennsylvania expects to 
motor to New York for this meeting 
and wiM take various members of the 
\Harrlsburg Clan with him.. Quite a 
few notable men of the city of New 
York will attend this meeting and 
from all indications it is going to be 
tho greatest Carnegie Tech meeting 
that has ever been held. Recent com
munications from Secretary J. A. 
Cameron assure the Alumni Office 
that they are exerting every effort to 
make this a real party and he urges 
every man and woman who can pos
sibly do so to attend.
The committee on arrangements 
for the Alumni Federation Party 
tte that definite plan will bo an
nounced In the next Ihhuo of tho Tar
tan, The party will bo similar to tho 
one of lust year. It will begin about 
8:15 in tho evening when the alumni 
will attend a play givon in tho Little 
Theater after which a dance will be 
hold In tho Arts' Foyer. Evoiy Car
negie Toch man and woman in tho 
city of Pittsburgh should try to at
tend this party, as it 1 going to bo 
informal and on or. those got-togothor affairs that ovoryone likes. It 
will bo hold either tho latter part of 
February or the flrt part of March.
BELLEFI ELD 
PRESBYTERIAN CHURCH 
"The Church of Friendly People" 
Rev. Robert MacGowan, D.D., 
Minister.
Sabbath School.......... 9:45 A.M.
Morning Service........11:00 A.M.
Christian Endeavor.. 7:00 P.M.
Evening Service........ 8:00 P.M.
All Tech students will receive 
a cordial welcome here.
M A R R Y  S
RESTAURANT AND 
LUNCH ROOM
Best Meals at reasonable 
prices.
3719 Forbes St. Oakland
NORFOLK CLAN
Billie Sands, Acting Secretary of 
the Norfolk Clan, called a meeting 
last Saturday afternoon, February 4. 
This promises to be one of the most 
progressive Clans that has been or
ganized. There are only about 
twelve graduates and former students 
In Norfolk, but they are all Jive wires 
and willing to do their bit for Car
negie. This is the only Southern Clan 
that has been organized and Billie 
has assured us we can expect them 
to do their utmost in promoting the 
best interests of Tech.
Tho lust clan banquet In the Fort 
Pitt Hotel EGR a delightful combina
tion of eats mulc, entertainment and 
Bpeeches. About one hundred and 
seventy-fivo were present among 
whom were tho following Margaret 
Morrison representatives: Edith
Hobo, Althea Burch, Anna Iiibbs, Viv
ian Schmuckor, Margaret Bingaman, 
Mary William, Marlon Keefer, Lenore Reed, Helen Clark,, Gertrude 
Horgan Hays, Rachel McGill, Sue 
iSmith .Genevieve Cushwa, Lillian 
Conwell, Florence Bechtel, Mary 
Bechtel and Helen Stewart.
Travel
RENTING A SPECIALTY 
Why worry about 
c I o th e s for the next 
party? Let the outfitters 
rig you out from head to 
foot.
Whittington 
Dress Suit Co.
JENKINS ARCADE
WHY WE TAKEIs relieved of its embarrass
ments when you have a let
ter of credit from uc And 
through our Steamship 
Agency we can arrange 
every detail for you of any 
trip, tour or cruise, afloat 
and ashore.
MEETING DATES
The monthly meeting of the Sci
ence Board of Governors will be held 
in the Alumni Office, Thursday, Feb
ruary 16 at 8 p. m.
The monthly meeting of the Indus
tries Board of Governors will be held 
in the Alumni Office, Thursday, Feb
ruary 16 at 8 p. m.
The regular monthly meeting of the 
Alumni Federation Board will be held 
in the Alumni Office Monday, Febru
ary 20 at 7:30 p. m.
PSYCHOLOGICAL EXAMS.
(Continued Fr^m Page Ono.) 
they do, that information will also bo 
of valuo In deckling wlnlch students 
are to bo admitted to tho school.
This Is the main purpose in giving 
the tests. They aro not at present 
used to decide whether a student 
shall be allowed to outer school, but 
are sometimes used In helping a stu
dent to decide what kind of1 work lie 
Is fitted for, In helping Instructors to 
understand their students, and in va
rious other ways connected with tho 
students' work.
Friends of Hilda Reinhold will be 
glad to know that she has recovered 
from the very serious" illness 'which 
confined her to her home for several 
weeks. I-Illda is ono of our most 
faithful members and we have missed 
her this winter.
DETROIT CLAN
A letter has just been received 
from Mr. H. A. Neal, Acting Secre
tary for the Detroit Clan, stating that 
they expect to hold a meeting in the 
near future. There are quite a few 
live, wires in Detroit and there is no 
reason why this Clan cannot be one 
of the best that we have.' The Exe
cutive Secretaiy hopes that the Clan 
will call tills meeting as ,early as 
possible and start things going. If 
any information is desired on Clan or 
Alumni Work please write to the 
Alumni Office and the same will bo 
furnished.
SFCUL YFREXHFI
Fafah Avenue Boot Shop'
near 48ih Street, New York. 
MASTER-MADE FOOTWEAR
Pretty (looking over the new thea
ter down town:) What do you think 
of the excavation?
Witty: Oh, its pretty good as a 
whole.CARNEGIE DEBATING
TEAM HAS INTER
COLLEGIATE MEETK. Elliott CompanyExhibit Shop 
Jenkins Arcade, Pittsburgh.(Continued From Page One.) 
tr'ated study. The-engineer who can 
appear before a large gathering and. 
present any topic as finished in for
ensic and literary details as his 
technical construction may be is 
rather a rare person. Carnegie Tech 
therefore in the encouragement of 
intercollegiate debate will turn out 
some men who can fill a large gap 
in the engineering world aside from 
the added distinction of boasting an 
activity which is usually found only 
at schools of a more academic na
ture.
IMPORTERS AND MANUFACTURERS
Drawing Materials and Surveying Instruments, Blue Print Papers and Cloths, 
Artists Materials, Optical Goods.
Photographic Supplies and Cameras.
Highest grade developing and printing.
126 SIXTH STREET (Opposite Alvin Theater) PITTSBURGH
HARRISBURG CLAN
Luncheons are held every Friday at 
the Penn-Harris Hotel. AH visiting 
Techites are cordially invited to at
tend.
YOUNGSTOWN CLAN
The regular monthly meeting will 
be held the third Monday of each 
month at 7:30 p. 111. at the Y. M. C. A.
Ninety-two studentseditors and 
presidents and secretaries of student 
organizationswere among those sus
pended from the University of Ore
gon for non-payment of laboratory 
fees. They will probably be on pro
bation next term.
M
ETROPOLITAN busi
ness men hav been 
buying their shoes of John 
Ward for these twenty-five 
years. Collej men who ai* 
particular, ar equally enthu
siastic over the smart styling, 
unusual wear and moderate 
prices which distinguish ev
ery John Ward production.
Shown by 
GEORGE E. WELDE at 
the Fraternities 
February 7 and 8.
NEW CARNEGIE DEGREE RING
General Offises : i'll Duane street 
New York. City
Stores in Jrfanhallaii, Brooklyn, PhiladelphiaBenjamin G. Lamme
grout Niagara power plan, has since come to be 
indispensible to large producers of power.
When a man has played so vital a part in elec
trical progress that his knowledge and vision 
have contributed to practically every forward 
engineering step, it is perhaps misleading to at
tempt to identify him particularly with any one 
development. His work on the induction motor, 
the turbo generator, the single-phase railway 
motor, and the synchronous converter is but 
typical of the constructive ability which Mr. 
Lamme has brought to bear on practically every* 
phase of electrical development.
A man of foresight, visioning the alternatives 
in a problem as well as its hoped-for results. A 
man whose mind combines great power of analy
sis with the gift of imagination. A prolific technical 
writer, whose style is unequalled in clearness and 
simplicity of expression. Few engineers so 
thoroughly predetermine the results they actu
ally achieve. Few men capitalize their experiences 
so completely. And few indeed have at once liisj 
thorough technical equipment, his commercial 
understanding, and his broad human interests.
An institution which has builded its success 
largely on engineering achievement pays Benja
min G. Laumie affectionate loyalty and respect. 
The young engineer on his first job, as well as the 
most seasoned co-woiker, finds in' him under
standing, sympathy, wise counsel, and a con
science; to all of which his associates, in prepar
ing this article, are proud to bear witness.
V
ISITORS at the Chicago Worlds Fair, in 
1803, saw the first extensive use of alternat
ing current ever undertaken, when Westinghouse 
lighted the entire grounds with this type of cur
rent. This achievement marked the beginning of 
Ihecommercialdevelopmcntof alternatingcurrent 
lot power purposes, and brought the induction 
motor into a prominence which it has never since 
relinquished. Great and rapid have been the de
velopments since that day, but the most impres
sive aspect of this progress is not to be found in 
the spectacular evidences that are visible to 
everyone, but rather, in the vision and funda
mental soundness and determination that have 
been quietly at work blazing andclearingthetrails 
which the electrical art has followed.
There is, for instance, the synchronous con
verter. This machine is the most efficient and 
economical means for changing alternating to 
direct current, which the operation of most 
street railway systems and many other processes 
require. Without it, the development of alter
nating current to its present universal usefulness 
would have been tremendously retarded.
Tho synchronous converter, in its present per
fection, is but one of the great contributions to 
electrical progress that have been made by Ben
jamin (i. Lamme* Chief "Engineer of the Westingliouso Electric & Manufacturing Company. Mr. 
Lamme, in 1891 when lie was Chief Designer, 
conceived and developed the converter, which, 
first used commercially in connection with the
y38
SSTSUFHGY ,LFPBIXHVFW
and other Metal Pencils
yhnHE name VENUS is your 
J- guarantee of perfection. 
Absolutely crumble-proof, 
Vi it smooth and perfectly graded. 
| /I 7 DEGREES
// zB soft black H med. hard
Wl B soft 2H hard
|| F firm 4H extra hard
A HB mediumfor general use
II 15c per tube of 12 leads;1 $1.50 per dozen tubes
Ifyour dealer cannotsupply you write us.
American Lead Pencil Co.
215 Fifth Ave., Dept. , New York 
Ask us about the new 
VENUS EVERPOINTED PENCILS
FRATERNITY DIRECTORY
Schenley 9195 
. .. Hazel 3320 
Schenley 3941 
Schenley 9131 
. . Hiland 9397 
... Hiland 858 
Schenley 2944 
Schenley 9401 
Schenley 9017 
. .. Hazel 9364 
Schenley 9285 
Schenley 9211 
... Hazel 9398 
. Schenley 659 
.. Hiland 9153 
Schenley 9231 
Schenley 9143 
... Hazel 9422 
.... Hazel 9402
Alphl Pi.........................1146 Wightman Street..........
Beta Theta PI...............5549 Forbes Street................
Delta Epsilon Omega..240 Bellefleld Avenue ..........
Delta Mu .....................5122 Woodlawn Avenue ....
Delta Phi Delta............5530 Baum Boulevard............
Delta Upsilon ..............5224 Liberty Avenue ............
lota Sigma Delta..........Center and Neville ...............
Kappa Sigma ..............615 Clyde Street
Kappa Sigma Rho ... .444 Amberson Avenue------
Phi Epsilon PI..............5601 Wilkins Avenue...........
Pi Kappa Alpha ........4807 Baum Boulevard ...........
Sigma Alpha Epsilon. .4915'Forbes Street................
Sigma Epsilon Phi....6602 Northumberland Street
Sigma Nu .......................4921 Forbes Street ................
Square & Comp. Club..218 North Negley Avenue...
Tau Gamma Phi...........5064 Forbes Street ................
Theta Xi .......................4902 Forbes Street................
Woodlawn Club ...........5814 Forbes Street................
XI Sigma Upsilon........5840 Bartlett Street..............
Directory of Carnegie Clans
NewestCreation
Westinghouse
fESTINGHOUS' ELECTRIC ,
ALUMNI PAGE
