Attention, Plebes! 
Have You Selected 
Your Activity Yet?
Have You Reported 
Your Summer Work 
To the Employment Bureau?
VOL. XVIII. NO. 1CARNEGIE INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY, PITTSBURGH. PENNSYLVANIAWEDNESDAY. SEPTEMBER 19, 1923
CARNEGIE MEN 
ANNEX HONORS 
AT SILVER BAY
FRESHMEN WANTED TO WORK 
FOR THE CARNEGIE TARTAN 
EXPERIENCE UNNECESSARY
Annual Y. M. C. A. Confer-1 
ence Attended By Ten Plaid 
Men  Tartan Representa
tives Win in Track Com
petition
TOOTIN PUBLISHED
In the latter pari or June of each 
year, a conference o college Y. M. 
C. A.s from the Eastern colleges is 
held at Silver Bay, N. Y. During the 
week of the conference, discussion 
groups are held, and addresses are 
.given by some of the most prominent 
men in the religious field in the 
country.
This year Carnegie.Tech Y. M. C. 
A. sent Newman, Dykeman, Horne 
Daimon, Douglas, Bastian, Uji, Alli
son, Wayman and Griggs to the con
ference. Some went by train, some 
by freight, and some by automobile, 
hut all arrived with the idea of put
ting the Tech Y. M. C. A. on the 
map." The competition for recogni
tion between the various groups was 
very keen, as some fifty odd schools 
were represented. However, the 
Tech delegation acquitted itself very 
creditably in all that it undertook.
A Tootin'* was published, that com
pared very favorably with the maga
zines published by the other delega
tions.
The discussion groups under such 
men as Rev. Steinniger of New York, 
were very interesting. Among the 
speakers who addressed the confer
ence were Messrs. Baldwin and Roti
er ts, whose talks were very instruc
tive. Mr. Roberts talks, in particu
lar, were exceedingly popular.
In the athletic contests, the Tech 
delegation did well. Dykeman and 
Bastian scored thirty-two points in 
the track meet and Tech was declar
ed the winner, as the nearest rival 
had only sixteen points. The Pitt 
and Tech delegations combined to 
form an all Western Pennsylvania 
ball team, only to be defeated by 
West Point by the score of forteen 
to ten.
On-stunt night, Obie Newman gave 
a blackface sketch that brought down 
the house. Dear Old Tech and 
(Continued On Page Four.)
Freshmen! Would you like to en
gage in an activity which would 
bring you in contact with the big 
people around school, both among 
the students and the faculty; which 
would demand only a comparatively 
small part of your time; which 
would enable you to earn those 
points for activities without which 
you cannot graduate; and which will 
practically pay your way through 
school during your last year?
The Carnegie Tartan wants men. 
preferably Freshmen, to work for the 
paper this year. Of those who come 
out, two will get the jobs of Editorin-Chief, or Managing Editor for the 
year 1927, and both these positions 
parry a good monthly salary. Those 
interested should report at the Car
negie Tartan office, 5-A Industries 
Building, today or tomorrow, be
tween 11:30 and 12:30.
CARNEGIE DADS CARNE GIIMXH OSXT MANY CHANGES 
WILL SEE GAMEat HEREIN PERSONNEL
WITH LEHIGH Graduate Athletic Manager 0E FACULTIES
Succumbs to Illnes of
MISS E. HELM TO 
HEAD DORMITORY
Alumni Faculty and Students 
Are Urged to Bring Parents 
Here for Forbes Field Game 
With Lehigh, November 3 
------------------
Several Months
TO BE ANNUAL AFFAIR
Will Have Entire Charge 
of Dormitories Taking 
Place of Mrs. Johnson
Beauty Campaign to 
Begin By Tartan
Series of Beauty Hints for 
Co-eds to be Given
Are you beautiful? Do you think 
you are or do you know it? It is now 
time for every girl in Tech to stop 
before a mirror for a more definite 
purpose than to powder her nose and 
put her lips back on straight. Hereto
fore, mirrors having been invented 
quite early in the history of woman
kind, there was a very definite use for 
a glass that of satisfying the vanity 
of the lady. All very well, and it is 
 only right that a glass should function 
as such, but now, in this more ad
vanced age we. find a more beneficial 
use for a mirror which is the text of 
this article.
A thing of beauty is a joy forever 
runs the hackneyed phrase, conceived 
by some bard! True it is, and it is 
well worth remembering. That mere
ly leads us to say that the true use 
of a mirror is to encourage beauty 
not merely by affording a means of 
adjusting ones face, but to show one 
when one has, or has not as the case 
may be, the natural thing called beau
ty. Presumably, the girls have found 
a mirror as a contrivance, but now it 
will be found to be of some greater 
valuethat of a beauty barometer. 
There is just one thing to do when 
one is in doubt about ones beautyrun and look into a mirror! Now, af
ter making sufficient changes in ones 
faceeither by cosmetics or grim
acesthe next move is to rush to a 
photographer and have him shoot the 
face, which was re-adjusted, prior to 
the shooting, in a mirror. This is 
the way to achieve true beauty, and 
to preserve a true picture of ones 
self at ones best.
With this preliminary Beauty 
Hint, which is the first of a series of 
similar articles for girls, the author 
(Continued On Page Four.)
M. M. Alumnae to Give 
Sodbusters Hop Saturday
In response to innumerable requests 
received from this summers crop of 
sunkist heroes and heroines who are 
returning to a hard winter at the C. I. 
T. cloisters, the M. M. alumnae are 
staging a Sudbusters Hop on Satur
day evening, 'September 22, in the 
Union.
The Collegiate Six will bust the 
first sod at nine oclock sharp, so get 
your tickets early and forget the cares 
of the week. The committee in 
charge, consisting of Anna Hibbs, 
Lorna Williams, Mildred Spencer, 
Lois McCombs and Kathryn Blackford 
promise an evening of super-jazz all 
for the price of $1.25 a couple.
Among the new appointments 
made during the summer was that 
of Miss Elizabeth Helm to the posi
tion of Resident Head of the Dormi
tories for men. Miss Helm, who re
cently arrived from her home in 
London, England, has had wide ex
perience in the organization of work 
along "educational and social lines in 
New York City, at Vassal* College 
and at McGill University.
During the war the organization of 
War Relief Work in New York and 
London claimed her interest, and, 
later, special work for the British 
Government. This was followed by 
an appointment for post-war service 
for the Canadain Government in in
terests relating to repatriation and 
migration.
Under a rearrangement of duties, 
Miss I-Ielmi has been placed in en-. 
tire charge of the dormitories, re
lieving the Dean of Men on all mat
ters of management, except room as
signments. She will occupy the 
suite of rooms in Boss Hall that has 
previously been used by groups of in
structors, and enter upon her work 
with the wish to bo helpful in any 
direction that will add to the welfare 
of the dormitory men.
First Issue of Puppet is 
Dedicated to Freshmen
With comparatively little bustle 
and fuss, an event takes place on the 
Carnegie Campus this week compar
able in its importance and effective
ness to the Japanese disaster and the 
Dempsey-Firpo light, and with after 
effects but little less noticeable. We 
refer to the first appearance of the 
Puppet after three long months of 
idleness.
This first issue is the Plebe number 
and is affectionally dedicated express
ly to the new arrivals upon the 
campus. It is without doubt the best 
of the many things which these boys 
will receive during the week, and as 
such, will be fondly remembered.
To the children who iiave not heard 
of Puppet, we can say little. It is all 
the good things you can think of, and 
then you have but slightly described 
it. It is the ray of light which il
lumins the long path of Plebe regu
lations; it is the one bright spot of 
color in the drab curtain of Math and 
Chemistry; it is the Dutch Cleanser 
which chases away those Homesick 
Blues; it isbut read it yourself, we 
havent a dictionary handy.
Puppet is not only for the Campus 
denizens; it should be by them. Every 
year some of the profeshunal sob 
writers leave school either through 
graduation or deportation, and new 
mten must spring up to take their 
places. Puppet, like the marines, 
wants men, and like the marines, 
wants women. If you think you can 
write something funny, or so sad that 
it seems funny, send it to Puppet, we 
wont tell. If you can draw cartoons, 
or Coles Phillips stuff, send it to Pup
pet. No matter how bad it is, we want 
to see it.
Puppet walks eight more times this 
year, and we cant fill this, magazine 
on good wishes, no matter how much 
we like them. We appreciate good 
stuff regardless of the age, color, na
tionality, or weight of the contribu
tors, so send us what you have.
And watch for the next issue, its 
going to strut some keen material.
One of the principal events sched
uled for the earlier part of the school 
year is Fathers Day, which will be 
held on Saturday, November 3.
This event is an innovation at Car
negie, and with the end in view of 
establishing it as a tradition, plans 
have been laid for a great reception 
for fathers and mothers of Carnegie 
students.
The main attraction on this day, of 
course, will be the football game with 
Lehigh University at Forbes Field. 
This will afford a splendid opportun
ity to see both the wonderful Carnegie 
team which will be in top form for 
this game and our kiltie band which 
has gained a national reputation. The 
different departments of the school 
wiil also be open for inspection, while 
the various fraternities are planning 
their individual programs which 
should prove especially attractive.
Being called Fathers Day must 
not be taken to mean fathers of stu
dents alone are invited, for a most 
cordial welcome is extended to all; 
fathers of all alumni, students and 
instructors. It is hoped that mothers, 
too, will take this opportunity to be 
present with Dad, for the game alone 
will be well worth the visit, however 
brief.
The establishment of Fathers 
Day at Carnegie Tech will serve to 
bring the parents of students and 
(.Continued On Page Four.)
Frank H. Haaren, graduate man
ager of athletics at Carnegie Tech, 
died at his home on Wilkins avenue, 
on August 9, 1923. His death came 
after an illness covering several 
months. Burial was held at his fath
ers home in Iowa.
Mr. Haaren was born in Sioux City, 
Iowa, in 1S90. He came to Pittsburgh 
in 1914 entering the Department of 
Architecture in the College of Fine
THISTLE BOARD PLANS 
YEAR BOOK FOR 1924
Tho work on the 1924 Thistle, which 
was begun soon after the appearance 
of the 1923 book, is well under way, 
and much of the preliminary work 
has already been disposed of.
Orders for the book aro being taken 
on the Campus, and may be given to 
any member of the Thistle Board. 
This year's Thistle will cost $4.50 as 
usual, if a complete payment is made. 
By the part payment plan, it will cost 
$4.75, $2.75 payable at once and the 
remaining $2.00 at the time the This
tle is received..
The custom of printing tlie names 
of the owners on tho cover of tho 
book if a complete payment Is made 
| has been discontinued owing to tho 
confusion which has always resulted. 
Names were often misspelled, and 
the owners frequently refused to ac
cept the book, leaving them on the 
hands of the board.
The book will be printed on heavier 
paper than'that of last year. It was 
felt that the paper used did not quite 
fill the requirements for a college an
nual, and 90 pound paper will be used 
instead of SO pound, which was used 
last year.
The photography this year will be 
handled by Mr. McCay of Wilklnsburg, and many views of the 'campus 
have already been taken! The Board 
intends to make the views as artistic 
as possible, and to that end, the pic
tures will be taken in such a way as 
to give the prettiest possible views of 
the various buildings, and campus 
features regardless of whether or not 
the whole building is included in the 
picture.
This Thistle will not be a product 
of the Thistle Board alone. It is the 
year book of the Junior class, and the 
class must help to put it out. The 
Board is anxious for suggestions as 
to the arrangement of the book, new 
features, new ideas, anything, in 
short, which will help to make it the 
best Thistle yet produced. Two heads 
are better than one. and 200 are bet
ter than 20. Suggestions are welcome 
from anyone on the campus and 
should be given to some member of 
the Board.
Last year. 1200 Thistles were sold. 
This year 1500 will be printed. There 
should be no trouble in disposing of 
this number among -the students, and 
with proper co-operation on the part 
of the class, this can easily be accom
plished.
FRANK HAAREN
Arts. Sometime later ho became con
nected with the Aluminum Company 
of America and advanced to tho posi
tion of office manager. In 1919 ho ac
cepted the graduate managership of 
athletics at Carnegie Tech which po
sition ho held until his death.
During his stay here at Carnegie 
Tech Mr. Haaren made many friends 
and obtained the respect of all by tho | 
sincerity with which ho conducted his j 
work. Under his control athletics at 
Carnegie Tech progressed so rapidly 
that our institution took its place 
among tho Class A colleges of tho 
country.
Mr. Haaren is survived by his par
ents of Sioux City, his widow, Mrs. 
Mary Todd Haaren; two daughters, 
Elizabeth and Ruth Haaren. He was 
a member of tliie Shrine and Masonic 
orders both in Pittsburgh and Iowa, 
and of the Sigma Nu Fraternity.
Senior Councillors Meet 
New Freshmen at Supper
FIRST MEETING OF NEW
CARNEGIE TARTAN STAFF TO 
BE HELD FRIDAY, SEPT. 21
A meeting of the entire editorial 
staff of the Carnegie Tartan will be 
held in the office, 5A Industries Build
ing at 4:30, Friday, September 21, 
1923. The policies of the. paper for 
the year will be outlines.; new plans 
of organization will be discussed, and 
minor details will be gone over. This 
is the first meeting of the new staff, 
and all the members are urged to at
tend.
Any new men who are interested in
A unique assembly gathered at the 
Commons last night when tho 100 
Seniors who have been appointed to 
servo as Senior Councillors to Frosh-j 
men met their protegees at a supper. 
The meeting, which was postponed 
from Monday evening, is part of the 
Senior Councillor Plan in effect for 
the past two years under the super
vision of the'Curnegie Tech Branch 
of the Y. M. C. A.
Each or the 'Senior Councillors j 
met his group of Freshmen at an | 
individual table, giving advice con-1 
cerning affairs of the campus and of 
the Institute. Following the supper 
at which H. K. Ivirk-Patrick. faculty! 
Adviser of the Councillor Plan served 
as toastmaster, a program of speak-! 
ser was heard. Among the speakers > 
were Dr. Thomas S. Baker, Presi
dent of Carnegie Tech; H. H. Wilson,! 
Chairman of the . Committee on New 
Students; T. N. Griggs, President of 
the Carnegie Branch of the Y. M. j 
C. A.; Waily: Steffen, football! 
coach; Dean A. W. Tarbell and S. E.| 
Dibble, chairman of the Committee j 
on Management of the Y. M. C. A. i
After the meeting the students j 
were assembled on the .campus in | 
froHt of the College of Fine Arts, i 
where they were introduced to vari
ous school yells and songs. The fes-| 
tivities were brought to a close with j 
the Burial of the Hatchet by the I 
Freshmen and the Sophomores. |
While a majority of the new faculty 
members at Carnegie Tech for the 
coming year constitute replacements 
made necessary by the resignations 
of instructors who have gone to other 
fields, a large number of the newcom
ers have been added to the staff in 
anticipation of increased. student en
rollments. According to an announce
ment from President Thomas S. Ba
ker, the continued growth In various 
departments and courses has required 
substantial increases in the personnel 
of their'respective faculty stalls.
Several of the more important fac
ulty appointments for the year of 
1923-1924 were made in accordance 
with the policy of Dr. Baker and tho 
administrafion to bring to Carnegie 
Tech tho best available of men and 
women teachers in their particular 
fields Several recent announcements 
made during the past two months con
cerning new appointees indicate that 
the institutions policy is being put 
to practice, and that tho faculty staff 
has been considerably strengthened 
for the future.
Of outstanding importance havo 
been tho naming of Henry K. McGoodwin as head of tho Department 
of Architecture and chairman of the 
faculty in the Collogo of Fine Arts; 
Camille E. Giapln, a prominent, archi
tect of France, as Professor of Archi
tectural Design; Harold A. Thomas as 
Professor of Theoretical Hydraulics 
(Continued on Pago Two.)
PLAN SPECIAL MEALS 
FOR DORMITORY MEN
A now plan for furnishing meals for 
the men In tho dormitories at. tho rate 
of a dollar a day wont into offect In 
tho Commons on Monday, Septem
ber 17. Tickots for six breakfasts, 
six lunches and six dinners, good for 
ono month and available for dormitory 
residents only, can bo secured at tho 
cashiers office for $(.00. Sunday has 
not been Included In tho plan as ex
perience has shown that most stu
dents prefer to bo free to eat where 
they please on that day.
A special cafeteria counter Is pro
vided for this service, thus Insuring 
relief from tho congestion In the main 
lino at rush hours. A menu Is posted 
for each meal, with several choices 
oiforod. The aim of tho Institute 
through tho Commons management, 
wlHl bo to provide an arrangement of 
full, well-balanced meals, more nearly 
like homo conditions, than has over 
boforo boon attempted on the campus.
The .success of tho plan depends 
largely upon the number of men talc
ing advantage of It, as It will bo pos
sible to increase tho attractiveness 
of the menu proportionately with tho 
Increase in patronage.
Two Tech Students Among 
Honor Men at R.O.T.C. Camp
John D. Jarema, of 210 Jane street, 
Carnegie, and Milo Matter, of Harris
burg, Pa., both students at Carnegie 
Tech, were among the ten best honor 
men selected at the Engineer R. O. T. 
C. Camp held at Camp Meade, Mary
land, this summer. President Thomas
S. Baker, of Carnegie Tech, has re
ceived official notification of the rat
ings from the engineers and officers 
in charge of the camp.
Both Jarema and Matter were 
Sophomores last year in the College 
of Engineering, and were members of 
a large delegation of Carnegie Tech 
students attending this years summer 
training course at Camp Meade. Other 
colleges that were represented by stu
dents among the ten honor men were 
Virginia Polytechnic Institute, 3; Vir
ginia Military Institute, 2; West Vir
ginia University, Johns Hopkins Uni
versity, and University of Cincinnati, 
with one each.
CARNEGIE TECH 1923 FOOTBALL SQUAD
STEFFENS PROTEGEES TRAIN 
IN PITTSBURGH FOR MOST 
DIFFICULT SEASON ATTEMPTED
Henry K. McGoodwin Head 
of Dept, of Architecture. 
New Additions Strengthen 
Ranks of Instructors.
STAFF NOW INTACT
Camp Louise Carnegie Abandoned 
Bert Munhall and Field Coach Marks 
Assist WallyRobertson, Brum
baugh and Comfort Back for 
Last Season
MORAN, LAMB, DONOHOE LOST
SOPHS GIVE PLEBES 
USUAL GOING-OVER
Pittman, Christoff, Bastian, Captain Robertson,First row, left to rightMilne, Predmore, C. Brumbaugh,
Schell, Amans, McCarty, Beede, Mahoney, Yoder.
Second rowCass, Wurtenberger, Gray, Eaton, Bryant, Jones, Taylor, Fisher, Temmcl, Gilbert, Cook, C. newspaper work, and who wish to Anderson, 
work for the Carnegie Tartan are in- - Third rowBert Munhall, McHenry, Kuhn, Moessnjr, Cupp, Zelt, J. Anderson, Newman, Comfort, P. Andervited. Freshmen take notice! 1 son, Goodwin, McLain, Davis, Ryan (manager).
Freshmen Introduced to Reg
ulations and Work by 
Second Year Men
For the past two days Sophomores 
have been busy showing the Plebes 
thoir proper places on the campus and 
have nearly given them a complete 
course in tho art or dressing thomselves and of addressing superiors.
The Sophomores hold a mooting at 
9:00 oclock Monday morning and soon 
long lines of Plehos woro marching 
down Woodlawn avenue with tho fa
miliar cries of Hoy Plobo! and 
Toch! Tech! Toch!" At this time 
Plobos woro shown tho correct stylo 
of wearing trousers and woro taught, 
that coats inside out are considered 
to bo quite} tho thing,
A largo number of Plobos were used 
for tho greater part of the day to con
struct bleachors for tho coming foot
ball season. Somo wore occupied 
cleaning and putting tho field in good 
condition.
Tho first, year men In tho dormi
tories received thoir annual surprise 
on Monday evening, when ono hun
dred and twonty-fivo liebes wore 
treated to cold showors by accommo
dating Maggie Murphs, while unround
ing under Woodland avonuo windows. 
Forbes Hall claims tho honor of hav
ing soaked the most Plobos.
Tuesday morning, tho first assem(Contlnuod On Pa At Four.)
Alpha Tau Omega (rants 
Chapter to Local Fiat.
Carnoglo Fraternities wore hustling 
during the summer making prepara
tions for the strenuous rushing period 
coming with the opening or school. 
tSJbmo aro scarcely recognizable as tho 
old hangouts.
Carnegie gained another national 
during the summer with tho charter
ing of tho Carnoglo Delta XI local In 
Alpha Tail Omega. The Delta Xl's 
wore organized last year on the merg
ing of the Dolta Epsilon Omega and 
the XI -sigma Upsilon locals.
The Thota Xls purchased a new 
house on Forbes stroot, their old 
house being taken by tho Dolta Tau 
Dolts who wore compelled to move be
cause of -the converting, of their 
old house into ono of tho new dormi
tories for girls.
SCHOOL ANNOUNCES. LISTS
OF SCHOLARSHIP FOR YEAR
Beginning with tlio coming terms, 
twenty scholarships of -$30 each will 
be offered annually to night students 
.of high scholastic standing. With 
the exception of the  Arthur W. 
Sparks Memorial Scholarship which 
is offered to an upperclass night stu
dent of high standing and character 
In the Department of Painting and 
Illustration, these twenty scholar
ships are the first ever to be Offered 
exclusively to the evening students
Members of the evening classes 
throughout the institute will be eli
gible fdr these annual awards. Ap
pointments to the scholarships will 
be made by the faculties on June 
15 of each year.
Departing from the usual custom,
' this year football training was held 
I right hero at school. Carnegie Tech 
I field being utilized by Head Coach 
i Wally Steffen and Field Coach Marks 
and about fifty huskies who were in
vited to attend preliminary training 
! for the most difficult season ever atj tempted by a Carnegie Tech eleven. 
The boys were quartered In Mellon 
: Hall annex,-and the meals were served 
j in Mellon I-Iall. These were super
vised by Trainer, Bert Munhall, and 
| to him goes the credit for the excel
lent. cuisine. Last year preliminary 
1 training was held at Camp Louise 
[ Carnoglo at Glencalrn, about thirty 
i miles up the Allegheny river. The 
! present arrangement, however, was 
; such a groat success In every way
 that It might be followed again next 
I year.
Hoad Coach Stoffen arrived here on 
Labor Day with Dr. Marks, who him 
; made the trip to Chicago a couple of 
! days before by auto. Work began on 
I tho day after tho arrival of the couch*
) es, most of the boys having been al| ready on hand. Thoro were both. 
I morning and afternoon workouts, con*
; istlug tho first few days In the rrnll| nieritii of football, such as kicking, 
forward passing, tackling, running 
I down under punts, blocking, etc.
I Thoro was quite a bit. ot sprinting, 
Couch Stoffon being especially doslri ous of dovoloplng spood, for ho will 
i need that clonout In the absence of 
I weight In his haekflold.
The boys entered Into tho spirit of 
training with enthusiasm. They 
worked hard, and woro exceedlugly 
| hungry when meal time came around, 
j (Continued On Page four.)
Graduates Appointed 
To Research Bureau
Six Fellowships Awarded in 
Mining Department
Of the six <!ollo/:<: graduates ap
pointed to Research Fellowships for 
tho coming yt.ar by Hie Co-operative, 
Department of Mining Engineering 
four are Pennsylvanians, Including 
W. Nelson, who Is a Pittsburgher. 
Tho appointments woro made from 
applications received from all ovor 
the country.
Tho appointments Include C. W. 
Nelson of this city, who was grad
uated from Carnegie Toch last June 
with a B. S. degree In Mining Engl* 
ncerlng; A. L. Barth of Philadelphia, 
I and Howard 10. Wetzel of Bollefonte, 
I Pa,, each a 192J5 graduate from Penn 
I State College with degree of B. S. 
i iu Mining Engineering; J. M. Pratt 
I of Westchester, Pa., a graduate of 
Sv/arthmore with an M. A. degree 
in Chemical Engineering; W. W. 
i Teague of Columbiana, Ala., who 
j was graduated from Alabama Uni
versity with a B. S. degree in Min
ing Engineering and Chemistry, and
F. I). Wilson of Salem, Ore., a Uni
versity of Oregon graduate with an 
M. A. degree in Chemistry and Geol
ogy.
All of the six Fellows who will be! gin t.heii* work with the opening of 
Carnegie Tech on September 17, 
have been assigned to coal mining 
problems suggested by an Advisory 
| Board of coal operators and engineers 
I of the Pittsburgh district. Each will 
i make Ills research studies under tho 
| supervision of scientists from the 
Pittsburgh Station of the United 
I States Bureau of Mines, ami, at the 
(Continued On  jr.)
Students Leave Their Recreation
To Hurry Back to Education
By Don Gardner 
(License Applied For)
Monte Carlo, Yellowstone Park,| 
Coney Island, and Kennywood Park j 
today reported a. wholesale migration 
of the summer habit uoes of those ex
clusive summer resorts. The opening 
of Carnegie Tech and numerous other j 
winter resorts was given as a reason ; 
for the hasty departure of tho ersl-i 
while millionaire hoarders, not to i 
mention a heavy Influx of N. B. K. | 
bills of loading.
The boys left on the faster trains i 
as a rule, It being nearly Impossible 
to get reservations on brake rods 
near the end of last week. They car
ried their trunks with them, and wore 
the rest of thoir bathing costumes, it 
is rumored that a good many frater
nity pins were left behind inasmuch 
as the belles of the various resorts 
have been frequenting the pawnshops
of late. The restaurants are crippled 
due to a lack of handsome waiters 
who can wear borrowod Tuxedos and 
keep thoir fingers In tho soup with 
that air of nonchalance so character
istic of the college man, and life 
guards and chauffeurs are In great de
mand.
On the campus the old fashioned 
hustle and bustle (Maggie, Murphs 
take notice) is returning. Most of 
the students have taken an active 
part In the ceremonies of Heyls Hold
up and have traded their summers 
earnings for sleeping privileges In 
classes. The Senior Fence Is at last 
crowded with staid fourth and over
stayed fifth and sixth year men and 
thi?, new gym has become a dream in
stead of a nightmare.
in response to the large number of 
Invitations sent out a goodly crowd 
(Continued on Page Two.)

---------------------------------------------------

PAGE TWOTHE CARNEGIE TARTANWEDNESDAY, SEPTEMBER 19, 1923
Xfe CoinEgii Rattan
Published every week by undergraduates oi the .Carnegie Institute oi 
Technology under the supervision of the'Student Council.
Entered in the PoBtofllce oi Pittsburgh as secondrdass matter.
H. F. SIMPSON ................................................................................... Editor-In-Chief
Telephone Schenley 01-13W. CUNNINGHAM ....................................................................... Business Manager
Telephone Schenley (2X1KENNETH ARNOLD ..................................................................... Managing Editor
Telephone Schenley 918!)FRED C. SMITH................................................................Assistant Managing Editor
FRED T. PHELPS............................................................Assistant Managing Editor
SARA MAE EVERETT ...................................................................Associate Editor
Telephone Schenley 1)071)MARK S. DOWNES ........................................................................ Associate Editor
H. H. WILSON .................................................................................. Assoclato Editor
W. WINNING ............................................................................................ News Editor
Telephone Schenley 1)070F. D. ROSSINI ........................................................................................... News Editor
Telephone Schenley 0070A. S. ANDREWS ....................................................................................... Nows Editor
Telephone Schenley 0211E. C. FRAZIER .................................................................................... Athletic Editor
Telephone Schenley 0148R. W. SLEATH ...................................................................................... Photographer
W. K. JEFFREY .............................................................................. Exchange Editor
E. P. COUSE, JR............................................................................................. Art Editor
DON GARDNER .................................................................................. Special Writer
T. J. DEMPSEY ........................................................................ Circulation Manager
B, BROUDY ................................................................ Assistant Business Manager
W. H. GIBSON...................................................................Assistant Business Manager
EDITORIAL ASSISTANTSEstelle Garibaldi, Elizabeth Gordon, L. D. Richards, J. A. Dougherty, B. 
DoMare, E. G. Elgle, A. E. Krogh, I. H. Isaacs, R. G. Kennedy, L, II. Harris,
II. F. Reiter, J. W. Jones, K. Fulmer, M. D. Kalfolz.
ATI I LE'riC CONTRIBUTORS 
G. E. Jacoby, J. Christoff, H, P. Rossback.
BUSINESS ASSISTANTS
D. Moskovltz, .1, W, Metro, Pi W. Reilly, W. A. Jacko, P. Edie, R. L. 
Sandroclc.
The Editor-In-Chief is responsible for the policy of this paper; the 
Managing Editor for the make up.
The Tartan welcomes all communications of student interest, if signed. 
Signature will be withheld if desired. All news items must be in the student 
postoillce before 4:30 Friday.
Tartan Oiil.ceRoom G-A, Industries Building. Olllce hoursTuesday, 
11:30 to 1:00, Wednesday, 12:00 to 1:00.
THE PRESIDENTS GREETING
TO THE MEMBERS OF THE FRESHMAN CLASS:
It is with great pleasure that I accept the invitation oi' the Editor 
of the Carnegie Tartan to send a word oi: greeting and good wishes
I.o you oJ! the Freshman class.
You will, oi: course, find the contrast between the lilc in a pre
paratory school and the liie in a college very great. Some oJ; you 
will be eonMscdi by your new surroundings and new methods oil 
Work. The lirst essential, in the list of resolutions which, you may 
make Jlor the new year should be that you will not allow yourselves 
to become discouraged. \. suspect that a great many oi! you will 
discover that you do not know how to study. Most oi! you have had 
little to do with, books during tho summer. .In many preparatory 
schools but little emphasis is laid upon the preparation oi! recitations 
outside the class room. Xu college you will find that you cannot suc
ceed without spending soveral hours oi! each day in studying for the 
classes to be hold the next day. It will take some time to acquire 
habits ol! concentration, but i.l! you will make up your mind that you 
arc going; to succeed and will not be discouraged you will be able to 
overcome some of your handicaps. The most important advice that 
I can give to you Freshmen! is to learn how to studylearn how to 
work outside the class rooin systematically and. uninterruptedly.
I. should like to avail myself of this occasion to make one other 
suggestion, and that is that you try to got acquainted with the mem
bers of tho faculty.1 M.ost of the officers and Ihe teachers of the In
stitute will welcome the opportunity of helping you to make a. suc
cess. Students often assume, that tho faculty is far more stand-offish 
than is really the case. There will be times when you would like 
assistance. You should not hesitate to lay your problems before your 
instructors or some ono, of tho officers of administration.
Speaking for myself, I hope I shall have the pleasure of getting 
well acquainted with you of the, Freshman, class, and I hope you will 
believe that all the officers and members ol! the teaching staff of tho 
Carnegie Institute ol! Technology are deeply interested .in your .hap 
piuoss and we I fare.
Very sincerely yours,
' TJIOMAS S. JJAKISR,
September 12, 1028. Irosidont.
"FIFTY-FIFTY!
There is a word in the American, language often coupled with 
itself to ox press a moaning which moaning has come to bo one of tho 
foremost mottoes that one could adopt. This word is fifty,n and 
when coupled with another "llfty", we have Ml KTY-l<ll(,TY." ,ln 
literature it may often be found written: 50-50, Hut, this moro mat
ter oI! how tis written, is immaterial. 1.1 is only tho meaning that 
counts. Translated, it signifies that .I 'll moot you hail! way, if you 
will moot mo half way. It carries out that greatest standard of 
living ever adopted by any man or woman -that of fair play.
This message of FI bTY-F.IFTY'} is one of the first messages 
that the '.1.923-24 Carnegie Tartan is to give to the students of Car
negie Tech, and tis the very lirst message the incoming Freshmen 
will receive from its columns.
Freshmen I Llay the game fair 1 Meet every ma n, including 
your professors, half way. If necessary, make the advance on your 
part, at lirst more than half way, and we are sure the party advanced 
towards will come out and henceforth carry out the FIFTY-FIFTY** 
proposition with you.
We Would call your attention to the fact that you, as a student 
of Carnegie have two duties: to yourself, and to Carnegie Tech. 
Therein lies the big questionhow will I divide my timeand yet 
play the game of 50-50?
To yourself, it must first and foremost be admitted that you owe 
your greatest duty. There arc some who fail to admitfail to see 
how they can owe their Alma Mater anything. They are like the 
vampire who bleeds its victim and never gives anything in return. 
They come to school, attend classes, and as soon as they are over, 
leave the campus and go about their pleasure. They are not playing 
the game of   50-50   with Carnegie Tech. #
And so, We get down to the question: What is a fair allotment 
of time to give my Alma Mater?
Before answering, let us stop and consider. First, I must attend 
classes, study, and have my required amount of recreation and rest. 
X should get a certain amount of these into every twenty-four hours. 
I must not overburden myself with too much to do or my health will 
suffer, and. likewise my studies. Therefore I must play 50-50 with 
my body. Just how to best allot your time for yourself is different 
with different people. You musti consult yourself in this matter.
Many a man makes the mistake of taking upon himself too 
much. For this, hero at Carnegie, there is a reason. Tho sad truth 
is: work around here is too often left, to a comparatively small 
number. 'Poo many students persist in the belief that after they 
have paid thoir activities foe of lifteon "bucks thoir duty has boon 
fulfilled.
And so, what is a fair allotment? Ninety-ten, the writer would 
call a. .fifty-fifth dealninety per cent to yourself; and ten per 
cent to Carnegie Tech. If we all do I his, activities will not suffer 
and assuredly neither will your studies. At the same time you will 
get your recreation. Nor will so many students have their studies 
out into by activities.
GET IN THE SWIM; for by so doing you can better fit your
self for the great battles to come in later life. By so doing you 
will meet the men who arc doing things. By so doing you will gain 
that self assurance that only comes from doing things aiid from 
being* in contact with your fellow-working-serving man. Further
more you will be playing the game of FIFTY-FIFTY.
Find that activity which you like best, and go out for it, but be 
not like the man who stuck his finger into a. million tilings, and came 
out of none on top. Do one activity well rather than a million onemillioneth as well.
Today, as a. registered Carnegie man. resolve to play the game 
fair and meet your college and yourself 50-50.
FRAT RUSHING RULES 
EFFECTIVE THIS YEAR
The General Interfraternlty Council 
of Carnegie Tech is an organization 
of all the recognized fraternities (so
cial) at Carnoglo Tech. Its purpose 
is to decide questions involving rela
tion between the fraternities, the rec
ognition of new fraternities, control 
of scholastic, athletic, and other Interfraternity activities, and the control 
of fraternity rushing, pledging and in
itiation.
Tho following rushing rules have 
boon passed by the Council and will 
be In cfloct for the year J.928-24.
Ruchlng Regulations.
Section I. Rushing shall begin 
with a rushing period starting with 
the Fall Registration Day and termi
nating at midnight of the third Satur
day following. No bids shall be of
fered during the first' two weeks of 
this period. '
Section 2. Bids may 'be offered dur
ing the third week of tiie rushing pe
riod, beginning with tho midnight of 
the second Saturday following Regis
tration Day. No bids may be accept
ed during this third week of the rush
ing period.
Section 2. During Rushing Period 
Freshmen must leave the fraternity 
house by 9:00 any night preceding a 
school day.
Section 4. Period of silence. All I 
rushing and bidding shall cease at 12 
oclock midnight of the third .Satur
day and mutual silence shall be main
tained until noon, 12 o'clock of the fol
lowing day (Sunday).
Section 5. Acceptance of bidsat 
tills hour (12 oclock noon Sunday) 
the rushee will signify his choice by 
presenting himself at the house of 
quarters of the fraternity of his 
choice.
Section G. Open rushingFrom this 
time on, rushing In regard to fall reg
istrant shall prevail,
Section 7. Men entering school at 
the beginning of the second semester 
shall not accept a bid until two weeks 
subsequent to that Registration day 
havo elapsed.
Section 8. These rushing rules will 
apply only to , the school year 1923-24.
Section 9. Dates: The exact date
of the periods established by this art
icle shall be set by the interfraternlty 
Council during the previous spring.
Section 10. Publicity.
(a) Printed copies of the rushing 
regulations shall be forwarded to all 
eligble students entering Carnegie In
stitute of Technology for the rst time.
(bj These regulations shall be pub
lished In the Carnegie Tartan each 
year.
(c) A non-partisan person shall go 
bofpre all Freshman class meetings 
of the men schools during the Rush
ing period, and explain the rushing 
rules.
enitot regulations shall he effective 
for tho school year of 1923-24.
The following Is of Interest to new 
students. Article V, Section 2, of the 
by-laws rends as follows:
A. student must have completed sat
isfactorily ono term of tho regular 
school year, must bo registered in a 
degree course, and must he in good 
standing as interpreted by tho Insti
tute eligibility rules, In order to be 
a. candidate for initiation into any fra
ternity. Lists of lospectivo initiates 
shall ho submitted to tiie Dean of Men 
to be passod on for scholastic eligibil
ity. Dates of the periods established 
by Article XII oi! the By-Laws for 
J923*24 are as follows:
Rushing PeriodNoon of Septem
ber 17 to midnight of October (I.
Bidding PoriodMidnight of Sep
tember 29 to midnight of October 0.
Period of Silence Midnight, of Oc
tober (I to noon of October 7.
Acceptance of IHdn Noon of Octo
ber 7.
Busy Year Expected 
By Collegiate Imps
Orchestra Spends Vacation 
Getting Experience
SCRAPS O PLAID
L
By "Hal.
Have you Iried to hug Machinery 
Hall Tower yet? Have heard the oft 
repeated I-low are ya, Bill? Glad 
to see you back? Have you real
ized that you are back to Dear Old 
Tech for another glorious year? If 
you havent, get someone with a size 
eleven pair of shoes to do you a 
favor.
Light but scrappy is the way lo
cal sport writers are describing the 
Plaid prospects In pre-season write
ups. That word' "scrappy is a good 
one. it sounds as though it might 
be akin to tho word Hht and light is 
'a woil established word. In the Tar
tan athletic dictionary.
Hi! Senior! Did you cut your in
itials in the Senior fence yet? Bet
ter get busy If you want a. place in 
the sun.
Greetings, Freshmen! Were new 
and so are you. Wo hope to stay 
and wish you the same.
If you dont like tills cplumn tell 
us. If you do, watch for it next 
week.
Hatchet Buried
By Plebes-Sophs
Pageant Enacted in Bowl 
Relieves Feelings of 
the Two Classes
Military Department Has 
Many Changes in Personnel
The Collegiate imps Orchestra, for
merly the Black Imps, will be back 
at Carnegie again this year. The 
orchestra is made up entirely of Car
negie Tech men and has gained a 
great deal of popularity on the 
campus.
Six of the men spent the summer, 
at Point Chautauqua, New York, fill
ing a three months engagement at the 
resort. Steve Ivovack, Wib Cunning
ham, Trump Corswirt, Rod Van Atta, 
Cecil Bowles and Ted Mattson, made 
this trip and acquired quite a bit of 
experience as well as a great deal of 
enjoyment from the work. Many Car
negie students on reaching the Point 
were surprised to find the Imps on the 
job so far from Pittsburgh. The men 
worked hard and aided materially in 
establishing Carnegie Tech in Chau
tauqua and vicinity.
Some novelties may be introduced 
on the campus this year with the re
turn from Europe of Eddie Miller who 
plays the traps. Eddie spent the sum
mer touring the continent, and un
doubtedly will be able to introduce 
some now foreign Ideas into the work 
of tho Imps this year.
The men will make their first, ap
pearance on the campus soon and are 
looking forward to a very successful 
souson.
ESSAY ON ENGINEERING EDUCA
TION
The other night. I met a Girl,
And she was nifty, very,
Her lips were two neat lcissolds,
Her form a cautemiry.
She said she didn't care to kiss 
But. 1 couldn't see tho harm;
I needed not by brutish strength 
For I had the lever arm.
My arms just formed a. cardioid 
And swept her form within it,
Her shape will never be the same 
For 1 passed the elastic limit!
Exchange.
The final climax to the first two 
days of regulations was reached last 
night at the annual bury-thet-hatchet 
meeting. Three hundred first year 
men took part in the event.
Plebes of all four schools not tak
ing part in the pageant assembled 
at the bleachers in the Carnegie 
Bowl where the play was enacted. 
Promptly at seventy-thirty, the 
Plebes, under the direction of the 
Drama Department, filed out .onto 
the field, amid the beating of drums 
and proceeded to the center of the 
field where the stage was set
The first scene opened with a con
tented tribe of Indians attending to 
their affairs when a messenger 
rushes in bringing news on an ap
proaching tribe which is both strong 
and mighty The chief of this new 
tribe soon appeal's and tells the chief 
of tho peaceful1 tribe that his people 
.only desire firewood and that if it 
is not given to them they will take 
jt. A fight at once follows, which is 
stopped by the Senior Chief. The 
two tribes are ordered to live peace
fully together for a year, at the end 
of which they will be accepted as 
members of the tribe if they prove 
worthy.
The hatchet was solemnly buried 
and pipes of peace smoked around a 
roaring bon tire. Tho natchot; was 
immediately captured' by waiting 
members of fraternities, and it has 
not yet been determined who made 
off wltli the prize.
The pageant is tho culmination of 
two days of rivalry between the two 
classes, and Is representative of tho 
spirit of the Plebe and Sophomore 
classos. It marks tho beginning of 
a year of regulations for the Plebes, 
.during which time they will bo given 
an, opportunity to make themselves 
worthy of Carnogle so as to be accoptod In the growing Carnogle Clan.
MANY CHANGES IN PER
SONNEL OF FACULTIES
(Continued From Page One.) 
and or Hydraulic and Sanitary Englnearing, In the Collogo of Engineer
ing.
Although one oi the younger men 
in his field, Professor Thomas is al
ready widely known as an engineer of 
extensive experience. He was grad
uated from Columbia University in 
190G with an A. B. degree and the 
C. E. degree in 190S. At the comple
tion of his studies he was awarded 
the lllig medal for the highest stand
ing in four years of the engineering 
course.
His teaching experience has includ
ed connections as Instructor at Co
lumbia University and at the Univer
sity of Washington. Later he joined 
the stalT at Rose Polytechnic Insti
tute, serving S years as Associate Pro
fessor of Civil Engineering and for 
the past 5 years as Professor of Hy, draulics.
In his professional work, Professor 
Thomas has served as a member of 
the Engineering Corps of New York 
S'tate Water Supply Commission, 
member of the Engineering Corps of 
the Great Northern Railroad, Assist
ant Engineer for Miami Conservatory 
District on flood-control work at Day
ton, Ohio, and as a Consulting and 
Practising Civil and Hydraulic Engi
neer at Terre Haute, Ind. lie has 
also carried on or supervised various 
experimental studies on the propor
tioning of concrete, and originated 
tho "Heap Test for controlling the 
consistency of concrete.
Important changes in the personnel 
of the Military Department at Car
negie Tech are announced by Lieu
tenant Colonel T. H. Cunningham, 
head of the department, in the ap
pointments of Captain Harold C. 
Lyons and Captain Thaddeous C. 
Knight as Assistant Professor of 
Military Science and Tactics. Cap
tain Lyons will be in charge of the
Engineers Corps of the R. O. T. C
succeeding Captain J. S, Bragdon, 
who has been transferred to the (fac
ulty at West Point. Captain Knight, 
who will take charge of the Motor 
Transport Corps, succeeds Major 
Philip Gordon, who has been trans
ferred to Fort Leavenworth, Kansas.
Captain Lyons conies from the En
gineer School at Humphreys, Virginia, 
where he was graduated this year. 
He is a native of Yonkers, N. Y.,
and was graduated as a civil engi
neer from Princeton University in 
1907. For the next ten years he 
was employed In and around New 
York City, in charge of important 
engineering assignments. This work 
included three years service as Prin
cipal ^Assistant Engineer with Gil
lette and Danan, engaged on subway 
tunnel construction.
Early in 1917 he was commission 
ed a First Lieutenant in the United 
States Army, and- went overseas in 
November of the same year as a 
member of the Twentieth Engineers 
assigned to forestry construction 
work. In August of 1918, he was 
promoted to a captaincy, later serv
ing with the Chief Engineers Staff 
of the A. E. F. on road construction. 
Returning to this country, Captain 
Lyons resigned from, the army and 
was. appointed Senior Highway En
gineer with the Federal Bureau of 
Public Roads, serving in this capacity 
until he rejoined the army in Sep
tember of 1920. Since his second 
term of service in the army, Captain 
Lyons has been identified with the 
Second Engineers and' he also organ
ized and served with the Twentyninth Engineers.
Captain Knight for the past two 
years has been stationed as Instruct
or and Motor Transport Officer at 
the Infantry School, Fort Benning. 
Georgia. He was graduated in 1906 
from Christian Brothers College, in 
St. Joseph, Mo., and in 1909 from 
St. Marys College in Kansas. He 
joined the army in May of 1917, 
most of his experience since that 
time being in motive transport work,
Another change in the Military De
partment is announced in the trans
fer of Captain Ralph E. Cruse, as 
Assistant Professor of Military 
Science and Taction, to a. post at 
Jacksonville, Fla., where lie will be 
engaged in river and harbor work. 
Captain Cruse will be succeeded by 
First Lieutenant Newell L. I-Temenway, Corps of Engineers, who is now 
on duty at the Phllllpihe Islands, and 
will report for duty here sometime 
in November or December. .
FOR THE GOOD OF CARNEGIE TECH
There is a constant and pressing) 
propaganda among young people who 
have just entered college, which insid
iously attempts to convince the 
young hopefuls that a college edu
cation is not worth while. It is 
pleasant to be able, in some degree, 
to combat that influence through this 
column.
it is true that many college grad
uates enter the life of business with 
an exaggerated conception of their 
own worth, but in general a career 
at Carnegie Tech ^banishes such a 
tendency. A college education is in 
itself worthwhile because of the broades outlook and the wider circle of 
-friends that one automatically ac-| 
quires. Yet that is not all. Culture 
is a wonderful thing, but it will not I 
provide three meals a day; friends 
are wonderful assets, but they should 
not be your cerditors. A, real tech
nical education will go a long way 
toward solving these problems and so 
it is to the interest of the individ
ual student to* settle down and for
get all this talk about the value of 
an education. IT IS WORTH 
WHILE.
Carnegie Tech in the few years of 
her existence has gained an enviable 
reputation. Students, men and wom
en, come from afar to share in the 
opportunities offered ' here. The in
stitution has grown beyond the most
hopeful dreams of its founders. Car
negie Tech is a great school; it is 
our school. It is to our interest to 
keep its requirements for a. degree 
on a high plane; it is to our interest 
that those who come here -for a. 
good time shall not stay here for 
that urposeCarnegie Tech is no 
cake-eating academy. Those who 
can not stand the pace should re
tire. No student is admitted to tliisinstitution unless he stands a very 
good chance of finishing his course 
in the allotted time. No one who en
tered need retire upon invitation of 
the faculty unless he had some very 
indulgent high school instructors or 
is just plain lazy. It is up to us all, 
Seniors as well as Plebes, printers 
and engineers as well as architects, 
to realize our privileges and get to 
work. In that way and that way 
only can we live up to our Alma 
Mater and do something FOR THE 
GOOD OF CARNEGIE TECH.
That does not mean that we shall 
become grinds. Go out for activities; 
Go to dances, and the games. But 
whenever you do sit down to study, 
concentrate, work, use whatever gray 
matter you have; then when exam 
time rolls around you wont have 
to use diplomacy in breaking the 
news at home.
Yours for' the good of CarnegieTech, '
A. E. KROGH.
STEFFENS PROTEGEES TRAIN 
IN PITTSBURGH FOR MOST
DIFFICULT SEASON
Pittsburghers who have been added 
to the Carnegie Tech staff for the 
coming year include Clarence L. Van 
Sickle, of the Saybrook Apartments, 
as instructor in the Department of In
dustrial Economics; Willard J. Per
kins, 21 Mawhinney street, instructor 
in the Department of Architecture; 
and Mrs. Evelyn O. Bowman, part time 
reader; In the Department of History 
and Political Science.
Mrs. Bowman, who joins the fac
ulty in the Division of General Stud
I es as a Reader in the Department of 
History and Political Science, is a nu 
tivo of Houston, Minn., and a grad
uate of Northwestern University in 
1914, receiving an A. B. degree. From 
1914 to 19.18, she taught for a year 
each in the high schools at Mllledgevllle, III.; Lake City, Minn., and Wi
nona, Minn. For tho past three years, 
Mrs. Bowman has been connected 
with the local public schools, substi
tuting as a teacher in the Fifth Ave
nue and Allegheny High schools.
Mr. Perkins will return to his alma 
mater as an instructor in the Depart
ment of Architecture. He came to 
Pittsburgh from Cleveland and was 
graduated with a degree of A. B. from 
Carnegie Tech in 1921. He joined the 
staff of W. G. Wilkins, Architects and 
Engineers, following his graduation 
and for the past year, he has been 
connected with the firm of T. B. and 
Lawrence Wolfe, Architects, as head 
draftsman.
Other appointments include: De
partment of Industrial Economics; 
Leslie P. Eeebe, Assistant Professor; 
Department of History and Political 
Science; Robert T. Thompson, Louis
C. Hunter, and Robert MacGregor 
Dawson, Instructors; Department of 
English, Donald D. Cameron and Clar
ence D. Greenliood, Instructors; De
partment of Modern Languages, Ed
win C. Byani, Instructor; Department 
of Physical Education, Louise G. Rus
sell, Instructor; Department- of Ap
plied Art, Virginia M.. Alexander, In
structor; Department of Home Eco
nomics, Ethel Feldkirchner, instruc
tor; Department of Secretarial Stud
ies, Hazel C. McKee, Instructor in 
Shorthand and Typewriting.
Mr. Beebe, a resident of Colches
ter, Conn., was graduated in 1920 with 
(Continued On Page Four.)
NEW FRATERNITY DIRECTORY
National Fraternities.
Acacia- (130 Clydo ...............................................................................Schenley 91S9
Alpha Tan Omega....25-1 Bolleflold...-...........................................Schenley 9102
Beta Sigma Rho114G Wlghtman...............................................Schenley 9370
Beta Thota PI5549 Forbes...................................................................Hazel 3320
Delta Tau Delta1902 Forbes........................................................Schenley 9231
Delta UpsHon5224 Liberty..............................................................I-llland OSfiS
Kappa Sigma624 Clyde..................................................................Schenley 9401
Pi Kappa, Alpha1807 Baum..........................................................Schenley 92S5
Sigma Alpha Epsilon1915 Forbes..........................................Schenley 9211
Sigma Nu1921 Forbes.....................................................................Schenley 0659
Tlieta XI5017 Forbes....................................................................Schenley 9243
Local Fraternities.
Delta Chi Rho .................................................................................................................
Delta Mu5574 Aylesboro......................................................................Hazel 9345
Delta Phi Delta156 North Craig..............................................Schenley -1490
Iota Sigma Delta5601 Wilkins...........................................................Hazel 9356
Kappa Sigma Rhc444 Amberson...............................................Schenley 9017
Sigma Epsilon Phi5S12 Bartlett......................................................Hazel 939S
Woodlawn Club5S14 Forbes...............................................................Hazel 9422
(Continued From Page One.)
No sooner were the boys in the din
ing hall than Cy Comfort or some 
other veteran would cry out Bring on 
the nourishment, Im- famished, or 
I crave sustenance, and similar 
phrases. But training camp was not 
without its humorous side for the 
boys. Doc Taylor had been coming 
in a little late a couple of nights, but 
the boys in his room had not been 
able to catch him at it. One night, 
however, Chet liable happened to 
awake just as Doc came in, and Chet, 
looking at his watch, said in that 
matter-of-fact tone of his, Big Ben 
sees you, Big Ben sees you.
Joe Eaton came in one night to find 
a heavy bureau on his bed, and it re
quired the combined efforts of a cou
ple of men to remove it. Dutch Zelt 
and Jimmie Anderson were cleaned 
up in a crap game, the funny part of 
it being that it was a plebe who turned 
the trick. Dutch Zelt nearly got In 
wrong with Dean Brown when he spat 
a generous bit of tobacco juice out 
the window of his room, barely miss
ing Dean Brown, who happened to be 
passing at the time. Dean Tarbell 
also had a narrow escape one night, 
when Coach Steffen nearly ran over 
him with his auto. The coach stopped J 
the car just in time. By the way, we 
heard that a few of the boys ran away 
with Wallys car one day, but we have 
been unable to learn the details. It is 
rumored that Jimmy Robertson and 
Brumbaugh had something to do with 
it.
During forward pass scrimmage one 
day Carl Anderson was playing end 
on one side and Christoff was throw
ing passes on the other side. On one 
play Christoff ran to his left, but every 
one of his men were covered. Just 
then Anderson yelled "Joe. Christoff 
thought it was one of his men, so 
turned quickly and hurled-- the ball 
right into Andersons arms. Tho lat
ter would have had a clear field for a 
touchdown, but he dropped the ball; 
thus both boys were made the butt 
of the laughter which followed. On 
another occasion just a few days be
fore camp broke up, a newcomer, a 
short, fat youngster was seen ap
proaching the field. I-Ie was all togged 
out in football regalia. It was inter
esting to note the expressions of the 
faces of the boys, and coaches as the 
fat boy came on the field. Coach 
'Steffen, with a. big smile on his face, 
walked over to where Bert Munhall 
was standing, but Bert spoke up be
fore Wally could say anything. I 
know just what you are going to say, 
said Bert. You are going to say that 
is .my boy. And since then the 
youngster has been known as Berts 
boy.
There have 'been an unusual num
ber of injuries to the boys in the past 
two weeks, but most of them were 
of a minor nature. Obie Newman is 
still nursing a wrenched knee, while 
Bastians shoulder has not yet healed 
sufficiently to enable him to engage 
in scrimmage. Carl Anderson is hob
bling around on crutches, the result 
of having water on the knee. It will 
be. several Aveeks before he will be 
able to resume football. Jimmy Rob
ertson is nursing a badly bruised skin, 
but he will be in fine shape in a cou
ple of days. Eddie Gilbert has a 
bruised shoulder, but will be able to 
get down to hard work soon. While 
the injuries have been many, Trainer 
Bert Munhall has been working over
time for two weeks, and will have the 
boys out again in a short time.
It is to be lamented that Moran. 
Lamb and Donolioe will not be avail
able for the backfield this fall. These 
men had been counted on strongly for 
this season, but they fell down com
pletely in their studies, so are lost to 
the team.
Camp broke up last Saturday, the 
boys dispersing to the various frater
nities and dormitories. School will 
start this week, so there will be onlyone practice session held each day in
stead of two. Pat Ryan deserves a 
world of credit along with his assist
ants for the able and efficient manner 
in which they conducted the camp. 
Eveiyone. from the coach down to the 
least impressive rookie, was entirelysatisfied.
NEW RADIO COURSE TO 
BEGIN IN NIGHT SCHOOL
A new and practical course in Radio' 
for Beginners is one of the features 
added to the night courses for the 
coming year at Carnegie Institute of 
Technology. Decision to give this new 
course was made as a result of the 
apparent demand developing from thewidespread- interest in radio commun
ication in the Pittsburgh district.
The work will be covered in one 
year of two terms extending from. 
'September to May, and the course has 
been prepared to appeal especially to 
amateurs, school teachers, salesmen 
and dealers in radio apparatus. No 
previous knowledge of electricit3r or 
radio is required. Instruction will be 
given on Tuesday and Friday nightsand will be covered by lectures, dem
onstrations, and laboratory practice.
The. subjects incorporated in the 
work, will include elementary electric
ity, covering magnetism, resistance,, 
inductance, and capacity; methods-of - 
transmitting energy; properties of 
wave motion; theory of production 
and reception of electro-magnetic 
waves; antennae wave length and 
measurements; .transmission and re
ception of damped and undamped 
waves; vacuum tubes, their operating 
characteristics, uses as detectors, am
plifiers. and oscillators; radio tele
phony, methods of transmission and 
reception; code practice in continen
tal Morse Code to a speed of ten 
words per minute.
Interviews will be given every Mon
day, Wednesday and Friday night dur
ing September to prospective night 
students. Registration dates are an
nounced -for Wednesday, Thursday 
and Friday nights, September 26, 27, 
and 2S, with the first classes to begin 
Monday evening, October 1st.
C. M. STAUFT
3901 FORBES STREET 
Artists and Engineers Mate
rials, Stationery and General 
Supplies for Students.
The Rittenhouse
DANCING
EVERY SATURDAY
OPENS SEPT. 29
Tech Collegiate 
Orchestra
Complete Your Registration
No student is fully established in school until he has made connection 
with some church.
Registration Day, September Twenty-Third
At the Oakland Methodist Church 
10:00 A. M.Student Classes, Brotherhood and Veritas.
11:00 A. M.Registration Service, Messages from the schools, the 
student organizations and the church.
6:00 P. M.Opening Supper of Vagabond Club.
7:45 P. M.Inspiring Church Service.
Come and register at
The Wesley Foundation of Pittsburgh
FORBES AND BOQUET

---------------------------------------------------

WEDNESDAY. SEPTEMBER 19, 1923THE CARNEGIE TARTANPAGE THREE
PLAID ATHLETICS
COMING FOOTBALL 
SEASON DIFFICULT
PLAID GRID LEADERPROSPECTS BRIGHT 
FOR FROSH TEAM
PLAID OPENS SEASON 
WITH U. OF TOLEDOOn the Plaid Screen
E. C. FRAZIER
Games With Pitt, W. & J. 
Lehigh, Detroit and Notre 
Dame Feature Schedule
First Year Rule Keeps Many 
Good Men From Playing' 
on Varsitj' Teams
INTRODUCING THE NEW WARDEN
There is a new conductor on this line. You see his name above. The 
Editor-in-Chief is responsible -for the policy, the Managing Editor for the 
makeup, and the Athletic Editorwell, hes not responsible. His aim. in 
brief, will be to put before the student body a wide-awake sheet., pertaining 
to all Carnegie Tech athletics, and to stimulate, through the Plaid Screen, 
an active interest in the problems and questions of policy which are bound 
to arise from time to time in connection with Tartan sports.Carnegies schedule this year will 
afford a wonderful opportunity for our 
team to prove its prowess. We have 
among our opponents some of the 
most powerful elevens in the country.
The opening game on September 
29, originally scheduled with Mus
kingum College, lias been cancelled 
for reasons explained elsewhere. To 
fill this vacancy, a contest has been 
arranged with Toledo University. Not 
much is known about Toledo around 
here, but the game should be a good 
one.
The next game is with Thiel, on the 
home field. Thiel is an old opponent 
and always sends up a scrappy aggre
gation that generally goes home with 
the feeling of having put up a goocj 
contest. Following this battle, is one 
with St. Ignatius College of Cleveland. 
There will probably be a large dele
gation of Plaid rooters on hand for 
this game.
On October 20, we meet W. & J. 
at Washington, Pa. Nothing need be 
said about this game. Every Car
negie man and woman knows what it 
means and the student body will at
tend 100 per cent strong.
On October 27, Carnegie will clash 
with Pitt for the first time in three 
years. This game will be one of the 
greatest sporting events of the year, 
and will certainly be one of the most 
important in determining the Plaids 
ranking among the great university 
elevens. It should be a memorable 
contest.
The week following the Pitt game, 
Carnegie will take on Lehigh. This 
game will be a hard one. The fol
lowing game, with Detroit will be a 
thriller. This game will be played In 
Detroit and all good Tartan suppor
ters should start saving for this trip 
now.
After the Detroit game, the Slcibos 
will take a well-earned rest, and then 
prepare for the final game of the sea
son with Notre Dame. The strength 
of the Fighting Irish is well known 
and will probably provide the most 
thrilling and hardest fought battle of 
the season.
The schedule for this year is nicely 
balanced. The games with smaller 
colleges at the beginning will make it 
possible for the team to take its time 
in reaching top form, thus avoiding 
the chances of going stale. The most 
vltfelanciing change from last years 
schedule is the absence of a game 
with Penn State. There are, how
ever,, other games on the program 
which will compensate for our disap
pointment at the Lions absence.
IN MEMORIUM
Elsewhere in this issue, there is an account of the death of Mr. Frank 
Haaren, formerly Graduate Manager of Athletics. Without attempting to add 
to that account, the writer wishes to give here his own tribute to Mr. 
Haaren. While a cub reporter, chasing after some dope on the teams or the 
activities, of the Athletic Council, we found him always ready with a frank 
reply to questions, and a kindly willingness to aid the news seeker in any 
way he could. Carnegie Tech will feel keenly the loss of Mr. Haaren.
The Athletic Council is now taking steps to fill the Graduate Managers 
position. Until that is done, the work will be carried on by Al Irwin and 
Miss Clea Brainerd.
ITS GONNA GET YOU BY AND BY
And when it does, just toss up the sponge and lay down before its mighty
ravages After schedule worries and registration are over and you havent 
much of anything to do hut study once in a while, tllat little football bug 
is going to creep up on you and devour your spirit, and turn you into a 
raving maniac, a wild-eyed, frenzied rooter for the Plaid.
Of course, we are taking it for granted that there is some real live stuff 
for the bug to feast on in the first place. Now to you new men who have 
just entered the Institute, let us help you get adjusted to the college ideals
of good sportsmanship- Before you are here very, long you will hear a
great many scorching remarks about the school, the faculty, the courses, the 
way things in general are run. That is inevitable in any large school. But 
here is one thing to keep in mind: YOU ARE GOING TO RESPECT CAR
NEGIE IDEALS OF GOOD SPORTSMANSHIP.
Carnegie athletes are clean, and Carnegie rooters are thorough sports
men.
Carnegie Athletes 
Romp at Pentathlon
COSTLY INSPIRATION
In a padded cell ablinkin
Sits i. guy with brains aclinkin
And he seeks for rivets in the con
crete Iloor,
Midsb his mutterin and mumblin 
One hears this frenzied. grumblin 
"Im off that nickel machine forever 
more!
Exchange.
ETIQUETTE ON THE HALF SHELL
Were still addressing the newcomers, but you other folks can listen in 
if you want to. Most of you are just out of high school and still have the 
high school viewpoint. If you thought that the most willing bettor on his 
teams chances, the most blatant knocker of the other teams ability, the 
most fearless challenger of rival spectators, was the guy who showed the 
best school spirit,, youve got to readjust yourself.
On the advice of some men prominent in school affairs, Ave offer this 
Code of Ethics for your guidance. It is NOT considered us being in good 
taste:
To drown out the opposing teams signals with cheers.
To deride the officials for an unfavorable decision.
To engage in petty quarrels with the supporters of the opposition.
To display elation at an accident to a rival.
To publicly make bets on the game.
To forget that you are a Carnegie man or woman, and that it is you 
who fake or break her reputation for good sportsmanship.
The structure of our athletic relations with other institutions is bused 
on the principle of Fair Play, and if you wish to be a true Tartan, you must 
respect that principle.
JAMES A. ROBERTSON
Jimmy Robertson is the dashing 
captain of the 1923 Carnegie Tech 
football team, Jimmy is a Pittsburgh 
boy and has been one of the most 
consistent ground gainers , the Plaid 
lias developed in recent years. Jimmy 
has been active in other college ac
tivities and is a member of Kappa 
Sigma Fraternity, Druids, Delta Siculi 
and Dragon. He is expected to prove 
a capable leader as well as a stellar 
player. He is a Senior in the College 
of Engineering.
MANY FELLOWSHIPS IN
MINING DEPARTMENT
In th Department of Mining and 
MetaUurglcal Engineering, th iollowlng bave beon namod to, Fellowshlps 
to work in cooperatton wlth th U.
S. Bureau of Minos on research cni 
mining problema: c. W. Nelson,
IMttHburgh, Pa.; W. W. Teagun, Columblana, Ala.; A. L. Barth, IMiiladelphla. Pu.j F. li. Wilson, Salem, Ore.; 
Howard IO. Wotzol, Bellofonto, Pa.; 
and J. M. Pratt, WoHtchester, Pa.
Al Wierman Coaching 
At Monongahela HighCHANGING THE SUBJECT
Lo! A gentle, balmy sepliyr wafts itself before our chilly nose, and 
reminds us that summer is not yet vanquished. Well, wellr and heros some 
youths and maidens disporting themselves on the tennis courts.
What does all this call to mind? Ah, yes, the fall tennis tournament. 
Tennis Manager Leland Jones is now at work getting the courts in shape, 
and preparing plans for a snappy fall shindig. Watch the bulletin boards 
for announcements of coming events.
We can't forget you Freshmen: just one inore word for your benefit 
along this line. Last year, in the spring tournament, the two contestants to 
reach the final match were both Freshmen, and the winner became ono of 
the mainstays of the varsity tennis team. Are there some stars in your 
ranks?
Former Tartan Star Becomes 
Athletic Director
S. E. KOVACH, JR. 
Director
Allen E. Weirman, former football 
star for the Plaid, was recently elect
ed to coach the teams at Monongahela 
High School. The following clipping 
from a Monongahela paper will be of 
interest to his friends and admirers:
Monongahela Board of Education 
met last night and elected two addi
tional teachers and a coach for the 
football team and athletic director. 
The board was very fortunate in se
curing Allen E. Wierman to nil tho 
vacancy caused by the resignation of 
Charles Moorehead.
Mr. Wierman was born and raised 
in Sharon, Pa., graduated from Sharon 
High School. Spent one year at West
minster College, two years in the 
Navy during the war, and three years 
in Carnegie Institute of. Technology. 
Aside from being a good student 
throughout his entire school career he 
has gained a wide notoriety for his! 
athletic ability. In football he is' 
rated as one of the finest quarter
backs in the collegiate circles.
His record in basket ball is of the 
same stellar type in addition to play
ing varsity basket ball for his colleges, 
he was a member of the Buhl Club 
team, one of the fastest independent 
teams in this section of the State. Mr. 
Wierman coached a regimental foot
ball team at the Great Lakes Naval 
Training Station while in the service 
of his country. After his return from 
the war he had charge of the athletics 
of the Carnegie Steel Co., of Farrell, 
Pa., where he turned out teams of a 
high order. He will come to Monon
gahela before tiie school term opens 
to get the local material in shape for 
the opening of the gridiron season.
Sohonloy 9211
PRESIDENT BAKER SPEAKS
Among the more attractive features of? the football training season just 
ended, was the visit of Dr. Baker, President of tho Institute, to tho encamp
ment. Dr. Baker came to dinner at the training table one evening recently, 
and after the grub was cleared away made a short speech to the men. The 
athletes appreciated tho interest shown by the President and were vory glad 
to have him dine with them.
Another occasion which was enjoyed by the football men was the enter
tainment given by the Collegiate Six one evening. Those Knights of Har
mony were glad to give their services in tho iuterest of th Sklbo football 
team and deserve this bit of mention. Such, features helped greatly to make 
football camp just a little more pleasant for tho Tartan gridiron warriors.
HELP WANTEDFEMALE
The new Sporting Editor has his head full of Ideas revolving around and 
just ready to spring out at the slightest provocation. For instance, we would 
like to see some capable young lady from Margaret Morrison or Arts stop 
forward and signify a willingness to handle womens athletics for tills page. 
The position wo have in mind is not merely one of contributor, but will carry 
along with it the title of Associate Athletic Editor or Womens Athletic Edi
tor, as the candidate may prefer. II, will mean not only writing up woinons 
athletics, but will also include handling the Plaid Screen, at periodic Inter
nals. Perhaps now and then the entire page will be turned ovor to tho 
girls, giving the young lady in charge an additional opportunity for a display 
of initiative and executive ability.
The Athletic Editor is not conventional and would be pleased to havo 
any prospective aspirant approach him and talk It over without the formality 
of an Introduction. Think it over, girls, and let us know what you think of 
the proposition.
Certainly!Every student needs a 
reliable Safety Fountain Pen and a 
Pencil. We Sell,and repair. Singer 
Pen and Gift Shop, Jenkins Arcade.Now Booking After 
Summers Engagement 
Point. Chautauqua.
E. F. MILLER, Mnnnqci 
Sohonloy 9401
Damon
Whats the matter? 
Cant you read your 
notes of the lecture?
Pythias
Nodoggone it. I 
skipped over to class 
this morning without 
my Dixons Eldorado!
17 leadsall dealers
HELP WANTEDMALE
Plebes, glance at the list of athletic contributors and consider how well 
your name would look there. The fall season is a. busy one for the sports 
staff and more reporters are needed to carry on the wOrk. If you are inter
ested in covering important contests, and coming into close touch with the 
athletes and the athletic situation at Carnegie Tech, there is no better op
portunity than that now offered. If you are interested, see the editor of this 
scintillating column and get an assignment.
Aufhammer & EvansCompliments
Hats and Mens Furnishings
6100 PENN AVENUE 
At Sheridan Square East LibertyObOTRAINING CAMP STATISTICS
TWO YEAR AUTOMOBILE 
COURSE FOR DAY SCHOOL
No. Name. Aire
2 Carlton J. Mefort20 0 Ed. McC. Gilbert208 G. Lloyd Comfort_22
10 Stanley M. Gray___27
14 Myron N. Goodwin_20
IG George F. Zink____2018 Charles J. Kuhn 24 
20 John L. McClain20
22 Carl Hamill______201-1 Theo. P. Moes3ner_2i26 Olin B. Newman_23
.0 Raymond C. Smit_19
32 Joseph R. Eaton___1931 John F. Taylor____2136 Glen Hamilton____19
38' Galen H. Davis___21
40 Albert R. Zelt____2442 Jas. L. Andenson_23
41 Ches. Brumbaugh -23 46 H. C. Wertenberger_20
48 Max Bastian _____2150 Chester L. Hable__2654 Russell L. Pittman_24 
56 James Robertson 21 
58 Carl J. Anderson_2460 Andrew C. Temmel_2362 Floyd C. Fisher___23
61 Henry J. McHenry_22
66 D. R. Predmore----22G8 Purl Anderson___20
70 Martin R. Schell__2272 Lloyd E. Yoder_____20
74 Allan Cass_______2l76 Frank P. Mahoney_26
78 Charles D. Miller..2080 J. J. Brumbaugh_18
82 Alvah W. Bryanfc__2681 Wm, H. Hanhy____1986 Churles McCarthy _20
88 Charles C. Cupp___2090 Paul A. Cooper____18
94 Owen W. Jone_____21
96 Chna. H. Myers 1898 Donald H. Milne-21100 Lloyd R. Amans___23
102 Joseph ChriBtofr 23
104 Aaron S. Guthrie_23110 Albert Magllgco__19
Pos. Home. School.
End. Lisbon (O.) High School 
Guard, Parkersburg (W.Va.) High School Tackle, MechanicHburg, Harrisburg Tech 
Tackle or guard, Pittsburgh, Oakmont Hi. Tackle or end, Youngstown, O., Rayen 
End or back, Pittsburgh End, Charleston (W. Va.) High School 
Tackle, Pittsburgh, Peddie Institute Back, Wheeling, Linsly Military School 
Tackle, New Haven (Conn.) High School End, Birmingham (Ala.) Central Guard, Detroit (Mich.) Central Fullback, Pittsburgh, Schenley 
Center, Sharon (Pa.) High School Back, Moundsville (\V. Vi.) High School 
Guard. Muncie, Ind. Nicholasville, Ky.,H.S. Tackle, Washington (Pa.) High School Back, Monongahela City, Pa., High School Back, Springdale, Pa. Tarentum H. School 
Guard, Monroe (Mich.) High School Back, Pittsburgh. Lancaster, Pa., H. S. End, Canton (O.) High School 
Quarterback, Sterling (III.) High School Quarterback, Pittsburgh, Allegheny Center, New Haven (Conn.) Suflield 
End, Pittsburgh, Schenley End, Lebanon, Pa., Pottstown H. School 
End or center, Pittsburgh, St. Mary's 
Guardortackle, Marathon, O., Milford H.S. Guard, Erie (Pa.) Central ,
Guard, Farrell (Pa.) High School Tackle. Salem (O.) High School 
Guard, Ravenna (Neb.) Hitfh School End, Muncie (Ind.) High School 
Back, East Haven, Conn., Booth Prep, Back, Springdale, Pa., Parnassus 
End, Detroit, Western Tackle, Lancaster (Pa.) Utah School 
Quarterback, Pittsburgh, Peabody 
End, Edgewood (Pa.) High School Tackle, Edge wood (Pa.) High School End or back, Youngstown (O.) South 
Tackle, Monongahela, Pa.
End or back, Marshalltown, la., H. School Halfback, Akron (O.) WoiUfdo Quarterback, Johnstown, Pa., IJIkI> School Tackle, Indiana (Pa.) Normal 
Tackle or fullback, PnrnnJMtJK, Pa., H, H.
! Craig Restaurant
412 CRAIG STREET 
| Quick Service and Cleanliness.
I TRY OUR REGULAR DINNER 
40c and 50cA two-year course in automobile 
maintenance and operation, which was 
one of the outstanding successes 
among the night courses at Carnegie 
Tech last year, will be repeated dur
ing the coming year.
The first year of the work includes 
theory, operation, adjustment and re
pair of the mechanical construction 
of the chassis and its components: 
complete overhaul of the motor, and 
other fundamentals of auto operation 
and maintenance. The second year 
of the course takes up carburetion and 
electrical equipment, starting, light
ing and ignition systems, fundamental 
principles of each kind of generator, 
starting motor, magneto, controller 
and cutout. The study of storage bat
teries is given considerable attention, 
and a course in welding is another 
feature of the second years work.
This- course has been prepared to 
have an especial appeal to garage 
workers and men connected with va-, 
rluos branches of the automobile in
dustry. Although the night courses 
at Carnegie Tech are not scheduled 
to begin until October 1st, a large 
number of prospective students have 
already applied for the auto course.
PostTavern| Oakland Savings &
Trust Co.
,1 Member Federal Reserve 
System.
{ Capital..................................$300,000.00
| Surplus..................................$300,000.00
j Deposits, Over - - - $5,000,000.00
SAFE DEPOSIT BOXES 
FOR RENT
Collegiate Barber 
Shop
DANIEL & CICERO 
Proprietors
HAIR CUTTINGCarried 50,000 African Slaves.
Privateers and slave traders from I 
Liverpool helped muke that one of the i 
important ports of England In the 
Eighteenth century, aud in one year It 
was boasted that vessels from Liver- t 
pool carried to the new world fifty [ 
thousand slaves from Africa, and j 
when that trade was gone Liverpool \ 
went after the cotton trade and has j 
Oeen a big factor In that trade to the 
present day.
Ostrich Plumeo Costly.
Ostrich feathers are either plucked 
by hand or cut from the wings whence 
come the most valuable plumes. The 
annual feather crop of the average 
ostrich Is worth from fifty to sixty 
dollars. The birds yield a crop of 
valuable feathers every seven months, 
although some breeders confine the 
plucking to a single harvest a year, as 
they claim that In this way they get 
better quality.Nature Magazine.
Good Things to Eat.
It was old Aunt So-and-So whose 
visits were invariably joyous events 
because aunt brought eleven kinds of 
.good things to eat with her.
Facial Massage 
a Specialty.
418 South Craig Street 
Pittsburgh, Pa.
What a difference 
just a few cents make !FATIMA! MEET THE OTHER j 
! FELLOW FIRST! I

---------------------------------------------------

PAGE FOURTHE CARNEGIE TARTANWEDNESDAY, SEPTEMBER 19, 1923
j&ALUMNI PAGE
&I Ii I
I *
CLAN NEWS j Fathers% to 
________________] be Inaugurated
BUFFALO CLAN
Tho Buffalo (Jinn oponed I,lio fullOpen House, Lehigh Game
and Mass Meeting Will 
Feature Nov. 3
Saturday, Novemberwill mark
Gasoli oli Monday ovonlng, S'eptomber 10(li, wltli a dlimor to wlilch woro 
livvlted Carneglo student, pun, pront, and future, Tho Aluinnl turnod 
olit In full force muklng a total of 
twenty-llvo attendlng th party.
After th dlnner overyone present j l *l,! Inauguratlon or Futlier' Day ut 
repressoti tlielr sontlmontu of gdod'| Carnogle Tech. li.. In Ilio Julillhnent 
wlll and love lor Cu mogio Tech. | 0| 11 long-tolt want lor a day of.
Mr. Ilay B. Keller wuu appolntod apurt Otpeclally for tho lithors and 
liciti seeretury to repronent ilio clan mothors of Curnoglo students, aluinni 
In Pittsburgh. lOloctlon of ofllcors ro- '< fmmer HtudontH. Wo hope tbut 
Hulted a followH: 11. C. TownHend. lt wlll becomo tradHlon.
proBident; B. A. Lutlon, vico presldent; Robert Porter, sueretary-treusurer.
Tiie Buffalo Clan exprossed a desire 
1;o donate a trophy to be known a, 
the Carnegie Cup, and which would 
bo given for high Bchool competition 
In the Buffalo district. It was ulso 
suggested at thlB meeting that the
In the pat lather and mother havo 
been given little Incentive to visit 
iCarnegle; inspect the buildings and 
-meet the faculty and beads of departmentB. This year the Fathers Day 
program will be ho chuck full of 
good1 numbers and surprises that no 
Other urge will be needed to get the 
fathers and mothers ouL In full force.
Clun sponsor a concert ol the Musical | Tentative plans have been formed 
lull, ami that at orne tlm,; dur me inBp,ctln ,,r , chool
Many Additions Made 
To Various Faculties
Professor McGoodwin Called 
to Chair of Architecture
would be featured by the appearance 
of tho Collegiate imps Orchestra' 
from Carnegie Tech.
The balance of the evening was 
spe
in talking up 
prospective students.
 | eons at the various fraternities, and
possibly a lurgo mans meeting and
supper In the Carnegie Commons 
11 ., . tl.Iuii,nii ni.i I 'With President Baker and the Trus- .punt in renewing old Mondihipi, ' uendunce.
n talking up Carnegie Tech to the
Tho feature of Fathers Day will 
I bo a football .game at Forbes Field, 
STUDENTS LEAVE THEIR | Carnegie vs. Lehigh. There ill be a
RECREATION TO HURRY j real demand for tickets so all
BACK TO EDUCATION alumni and students who are escorting
__1------ their parents or relatives to the game
(Continued from Pago One) should make early reservations for
appeared in the f,ungloy Lab for the seats;
pageant entitled Lifting the Dollar." i
Alan Bright In the role of Avaricious - SOPHS GIVE PLEBES
Alan, A. N. Ileyl as Omur the Rent 
Taker, and an unknown Check anony
mously called N. S. F. featured the 
performance. Brain checks In the 
form of registration cards Avere given 
as souvenirs to those who attended 
the affair.
Another feature of the epoch mak
ing day was the appearance of a real 
llosli and blood Senior Commercial. 
In an exclusive Interview for (lie 
'Partan he gave tho following illumi
nating answer:
How did the summer go?
Too damn fast.
Are you glad to bo back?
No!
Did you enjoy your Western trip? 
Say! Lemmo' tollyn boy atsy 
onoy place tubeout where tlm groat 
open spaces Is men, I wouldnt never, 
a como buck if m' sunburn hadn't 
bothered me.
CARNEGIE MEN ANNEX
HONORS AT SILVER BAY
(Continued Prom Page One.) 
Fight for the Glory of Carnoglo as 
sung by the delegation choir, wove 
well received,
At the clone of the eonfoi'enoo, the 
boys voted It the bout yet. There 
nA no doubt that the opportunity to 
dlfUiUHii campus problems and dliTloubi 
I bin with men from other colleges 
mid with older men experienced 
along those lines, Is of great beuollt 
to any college men, At leant the del
egation ibis year fools that the confe roneo wan a splendid thing.
USUAL GOING OVER
(Continued From Page One.) 
bly was held, at which Plebos were 
given reasons for believing that they 
have a change to make something of 
themselves.
Class games were held on Tuesday 
afternoon, husky members of the 
Freshmen class being taken aside 
while the remainder were defeated un
mercifully.
Last evening the annual SenlorPlobo Counsellor supper was held In 
the commons. ISaoli Plebe wus hero 
Introduced to tho Senior who will udvIbg him during the your.
Immodlntoly following came the 
Burial of the Hatchet after which, all 
Plobos wont to bed to prepare for 
the lirst tussle with Math and kindred 
tun till ly.ors.
BEAUTY CAMPAIGN TO
BE GIVEN BY TARTAN
(Continued From Pago Ono.) 
thinks that enough linn been sold to 
start the hall rolling. It is up to tho 
girls to talk among themselves and to 
read tho Health und Beauty talks ouch 
week iu The Tartan." When all aro 
Unbilled pulling for Better Looks 
we wlll have the most bountiful bevy 
of college girls In tho world,
ARID YOU BI0AUT1FUL?
Noodcd tho Money.
An Arkansas man oanvuHsod hi 
home town 111* oilier day for fund 
with which I' push a unit i n* divorc'd 
for Ids wife
NOTICE!
AnnounciiiK our Now; Di'paHmciit 
Ready to Wear
CLOTHING and OVERCOATS 
Davies & Hughes
Oaklands Mens Store
3015 FORBES STREET Open Evenings Next to Strand Theater
The l!hk liiiiU/HK, New Voivfc City 
CAllllGlUi & HASTINGS
"Design ing in IMasses 
T
l-IC new architecture transcends detail and expresses 
the component solids of the great buildings of today 
and tomorrow. Gigantic profiles arc reared against the 
skytrue expression of structural facts has now come 
into its own in architectural design, linking architect and 
engineer ever more closely together.
Certainly modern inventionmodern engineering skill 
and organization, will prove more than equal to the 
demands of the architecture of the future.
OTIS ELEVATOR
Offices in all Principal Cities
COMPANY
i the World
Henry K. McGoodwin, well-known 
architect, 1ms been appointed Head 
of the Department of Architecture, 
and Chairman of the Faculty of the 
College of Pine Arts. In his two
fold capacity Mr. McGoodwin v/ill 
succeed Professor Harry 'Sternfeld, 
Acting Hoad of the Architectural De
partment and E. Raymond Bossange, 
Director of the College of Fine Arts, 
both of whom have resigned. Inci
dentally, Mr, McGoodv/ins choice is 
a reappointment, as he was Acting 
Dean of vlic) College of Fine Arts and 
Head of the Department of Archi
tecture when he left tiie Institution 
live years ago.
His appointment was largely in
fluenced by the record he had made 
at Carnegie Tech where ho bad 
served as a member of the faculty 
for twelve years, from 1.906 until 
1918, retiring to practice his profes
sion and to regain his health. Under 
his administration of the Department 
of Architecture, and the subsequent 
supervision of Professor Sternfeld, 
the Carnegie Tech School of Archi
tecture has become recognized a.s 
ono of the foremost institutions in 
tiie country. The peak of its com
parative worth was attained in the 
past year when the department made 
a. remarkable showing in the Beaux 
Arts competitions, and in national 
scholarship competitions. Among the 
scholarship honors awarded to Car 
negie Tech graduates or students 
this year were the LeBrun Travel in; 
'Scholarship, the Stewardson Travel
ing Scholarships for Pennsylvania,- 
the Scarab Prize of $50, and the 
placing of two Carnegie men among 
(he seven competitors selected1 to en
ter the final judgment for the Rome 
Prize.
Mr, McGoodwin is a. native of Bowl
ing Green, ICy., and was graduated 
from Ogden College and Massachu
setts Institute of Technology. After 
seven years of architectural practice 
In Bowling Green and Louisville, 
Ky., and Charleston, S. C., he served 
for live yeurs as Instructor at Uni
versity of Pennsylvania, and Wash
ington University in St. Louis. In 
liOOO he joined the faculty at Carne
gie Tech, leaving after :L2 years as 
Head of (lie Department of Aclii 
tocturo and Acting Dean of the Col
lege of Fine Arts.
He Is a. membor of the American 
Institute of Architects and Is tho 
author of "Architectural Shades and 
Shadows.
Professor Sternfeld leavos Carne
glo Tech after Lon years of service 
to accept an appointment as Profes
sor of Architecture at Pennsylvania. 
Director Bossnnge, also a well-known 
architect, goes to Princeton Univer
sity as Hoad of the Department of 
Architecture.
M. M. Alumnae Starts French Architect 
Seasons Program Comes to Tech
Executive Committee Plans Camille E. Grapin Has Been
Future Activities at. 
First Meeting
Appointed Professor of 
Architectural Design
The first executive meeting was Camille E. Grapin, a distinguished 
held at the home of Mrs. Gall Sellers I architect of France, has been apFotlko on Thursday 'evening, Seplem- pointed Professor of Architectural 
ber '18th, and plans for the year were | Design for the coming year, 
discussed. Those present wore: i j11 Mr. Grapin, Carnegie Tecli is 
Bernice Kruger, Bess Sheets Gaston, securing an artist whose unusual 
Josephine Whitney, Dorothy Grant, j training qualifies him to assist in 
Florence Bechtel. Sue F. Smith, Edna | broadening tho work covered in the 
(.'. Smith and Gail S. Fettlce. Department of Architecture. He hasi
The first events are the Picnic Sup- j repeatedly distinguisned himself 
per and Sodbuster's Dance, both of through Ills numerous accomplishwhich are scheduled for Saturday, I ments as a graduate student in the 
September 22d. The Class of 1921, | Naj&nal School of Beaux Arts in 
having the largest percentage of paid-l Paris.
up members for the past year, will be I He was bom in France in 1885, and 
the guests at the Picnic Supper. j was graduated from the National
The program committee will have ' School ol Beaux Arts in 1914, doing j 
in printed form in the near future the graduate work in the following years, 
calendar of events for the year. This While a. student at the school, he 
calendar will be mailed to all mem-1 WWB awarded the Jean Leclere Prize 
hers preceding the October business j which is given to the student receivmeeting, notice of which will be sent ing the greatest number of medals 
out at a later date. and prizes at the school. For the
MANY CHANGES IN PERSONNEL OF FACULTIES
(Continued From Page Two) 
a B. S. degree from Wesleyan Col-;! 
lege, and in 1922 with an A. M. deI gree from the University of Penn! sylvaniai Graduate School. For the 
i past three years, Mr. Beebe has I 
served as Instructor in Industry at! 
the Wharton School, in the Univer
sity of Pennsylvania.
Miss Russell, whose home is in 
Dorchester, Mass., is a graduate of 
Wellesley Collegt with a B. A. de
gree in 1914. Following her-gradua
tion she served fox- two years as Di
rector of Physical Education for 
Girls at Hampton Normal and Agri
cultural Institute, and later as Re
construction Aide in Physiotheraphy 
with the United Statts Medical De
partment in France and Germany.
jVIiss Alexander secured a compre
hensive education prior to the begin
ning of her profession as an art in
structor. She was born in Lebanon, 
Tenn., was graduated from the New 
York School of Fine and Applied 
Art in 1915, from Columbia Univer
sity'in 1922, and. was a student, also, 
in Cincinnati Art Academy and the 
Academie Moderae in Paris, France. 
After several years of teaching ex
perience in New York City and in 
Cincinnati, she was appointed in 
1918 as Director of the Fine and ApWill Give Luncheon 
For Glass of 19
Business Meeting and Lunch 
to be Held September 19
Cards have been sent out to Pitts
burgh members of the Class of 1919 
announcing a luncheon and business 
meeting at the home of Bess Sliarpley Gurley, 5704 Callowliill street, Sat
urday, September 29, at 1 p. m.
If any out-of-town members of the 
class are in Pittsburgh that day, they 
will be welcome at the luncheon. 
They are requested to notify Mrs. Gur
ley by phone Hiland 8323-R.
The membership committee expects ^ 1 1J1J-19-0, he was given the ,ied Art Col|efre of Induatrtal Arts
to wage a vigorous campaign tor in-' Second Pnze m tiie Detouches, in DeIlton Tex whel.e she remained
creasing the number of palii-up mem- - Delnges and Roux Compet.Uon, one ... . . ,
to
creasing the number of paid-up mem
hers and you are all urged to do all pc the most important competitions 
the missionary work possible among j France.
your classmates in order that the M. | Among other honors conferred upM. A. A. may head the procession in I on Mr. Grapin were the Destors
the Alumni Federation with the great- Prize given to the student having 
est number of live members. j the greatest number of values in
----------------------------- i problems, and the Chaplain Prize,
CHARLES EURGIS RECEIVES which is given to the student winINDUSTRIES FELLOWSHIP nlng the most values in design.
Both of these awards were made by
Charles R. Burgis, a Pittsburgher, 
has been appointed1 to a Fellowship 
in the Department of Machinery Pro
duction. The fellowship is consider-1 ment to practice architecture.
ed one of the highest honors attain- j ---------------------------------
able in the College of Industries,! CARNEGIE DADS WILL SEE
the Centrai Society of Architects in 
France. He has .also been awarded 
a diploma by the French Governand it is offered annually to college 
graduates.
Mr. Burgiss, wnose home is at 5004 
Forbes street, was graduated- last 
June with a B. S: degree in Machine 
Production from Carnogle Institute 
of Technology. While a student he 
was a member of the Delta Tau 
Delta national fraternity, the Tech 
Mechanics Club, and the Carnegie 
Branch of the Society of Industrial 
Engineers.
Loafing.
Loitering slow, the future crecpeth; 
arrow-swift, the present sweepetli; 
and motionless stands tho past. 
Schiller.
GAME WITH LEHIGH
(Continued From Page One.) 
Alumni in closer touch with the 
faculty and the administration. A 
broader insight into the traditions 
and aims of the school will foster 
among parents of Carnegie students, 
a keener appreciation of and a warm
er sympathy for the work that is be
ing done here.
Students should begin now to ac
quaint thoir parents with Fathers 
Day. A large turnout of interested 
parents and friends on this day will 
warrant the continuation of Fath
ers Day as a traditional part of the 
school calenar.
GRADUATES APPOINTED
TO RESEARCH BUREAU
(Continuod From Pago One.) 
completion of tin* year, tho results 
will be published by tho Advlsorv 
Board.
A feature of the research program 
for the coming year lies In the fact 
that two of the six studios will lie 
made of problems that woro sp^clficully requested by private IImis In tho 
coal Industry, both companies having 
agreed o finance the studies.
The assignment of tho various 
problems are announced as follows:
"The relation af acidity and oxygen 
to corrosion of metals and alloys 
in acid mine waters;" Ralph B. 
Hall, Physical Chemist, United States 
Bureau of Miiies, and W. W. Teague, 
Research Fellow.
A study of efficiency in blasting 
coal;" J. E. Tiffany, Explosives Test
ing Engineer, United States Bureau 
of Mines, and C. W. Nelson, Re-' 
search Fellow. (Study requested and \ 
financed by the Hillman Coal and 
Coke Company.)
A study of the practicability of 
gas masks and protection afforded 
by them in mine atmospheres which 
contain carbon monoxide, irritating 
vapors and smokes and which sup
port. combustion in a flame safety 
lamp;" G. S. McCan, Mine 'Safety En
gineer, and S. E. Eatz, Associate 
Physical Chemist, United States Bu
reau of Mines, and A. L. Barth, Re
search Fellow. (Study requested and 
financed by the Mine Safety Appli
ance Company.)
Correlation of . coal beds in the 
Allegheny Formation of Western 
Pennsylvania and Eastern Ohio;" 
Reinhardt Thlessen, Research Chem
ist, United States Bureau of Mines, 
and F, D, Wilson, Research Fellow.
Efficiency of wheel diameters and 
othor variables on friction losses in 
mlno-car ruunlng-gear, Mayo D. 
Horsey, Physicist, United Stales Bu
reau of Mines, and Howard E. Wet* 
sel, Research Fellow.
The tlmtMute of combustion of 
coal-dust particles of definite sizes, 
C. M. Bouton, Associate Research 
Chemist, United States Bureau of 
Mines, and .1. N. Pratt, Research 
Fellow.
GO TO THE
Tech Barber Shop
FOR YOUR HAIR CUTS 
Five Barbers at your service. 
ON FORBES, TWO DOORS 
BELOW CRAIG
Directory of Carnegie Clans
AIvIIONSecretary, A. ('. Sprague, K. F. I). No. 24, South Akron, O.
BOSTON- Secretary, J. .1<\ Maxiwell, 220 Billings Road, Wollaston, 
Mass.
BUFFALO;Secretary, Robert Porter, 87G Iiertel Avenue.
CHICAGOSecretary, . S. Stark, care E. Vernon Hill Co., 64 West 
Randolph Street.
CINCINNATIJ. W. Hulmn, care Johns Mairville Company.
Pelbs!elHavYuecretary, E. F. Lundeen, 12722 Barrington Ave
nue; Women's Clan, Secretary, Mildred Lawrence, 2241 Cum
in ingl;on Road.
CONNECTICUT CLAN- -Secrbtary-Trcasurer, G. R. Holmes, R. McLogan Foundry Company, New Haven.
DA YTON [resident, F. W. Heckert, ] Stratford Avenue.
DETROIT--Secretary, H. A. Neal, 161.5 Cadillac Avenue.
ELL WOO D CITY- Acting Secretary, George Dunseith, Jr., East 
Cottage.
BRIE...Secretary, Karl L. Konnerth, 1024 West Twenty-seventli St.
UARR1S.BUR.GSecretary, Mrs. A. G. Green, 419 Woodbine Street.
HUNTINGTONSecretary, -J, F. Do Young, 80S Second Street, E.
JOHNSTOWNActing Secretary, If. W. Wallace, 641 Horner Street.
LOS ANGELESSecretary-Treasurer, Frederick ICindl, 2201 Min
eral Avenue.
NEW CASTLEActing Secretary, P. AV. Marcean, 202 Shenango St.
NEW YORK-Secretary, E. M. Gretzler, National Supply Company, 
120 Broadway, N. Y.
NORFOLKSecretary, J. W. Phillips, 611 Raleigh Avenue.
PHILADELPHIASecretary, W. P. Lippincott, 600 Washington 
Avenue, Palmyra, N. J.
PITTSBURGHSecretary, Thomas M. McDonald, Carnegie Institute 
of Technology.
SHARONActing Secretary, W. J. Thomas, Jr., 95 AY. Franklin St.
ST. LOUISActing Secretary, M. A. Zeller, 1946 Railway Exchange 
Building.
WASHINGTON, D. C.Secretary, H. W. Haller, 1103 Muusey Bldg.
YOUNGSTOWNSecretary, L. D. 'Woodworth, 2913 Southern Bou
levard; AVomens Clan Secretary, Miss Edice Reider, Rayen 
School, Ohio and Benita. Avenues.
Directory of Alumni Organizations
ALUMNI FEDERATION
President, H. L. Heilman, 17; First Vice President, J. F. Laboon, 
12; Second Vice President, Harry Bremmer, 20; Third Vice Presi
dent, W. H. Ritts, 12; Fourth Vice President, S. M. Vincent, OS; Sec
retary, Gail Sellers Fettlce, 17; Treasurer, G. L. Tilbrook, 15.
Board of Governors.
College of Fine Arts11. L. Heilman, 17; Harry Bremmer, 20. 
College of IndustriesW. H. Ritts, 12; .1. M. Orr, 15; T. M. Mc
Donald, 21!.
College of EngineeringJ. F. Laboon, 12; M. R. Walton, 09; 
G. L. Tilbrook, 15.
Margaret Morrison Carnegie CollegeMrs, C. R. Fettlce, 17; Ber
nice Kruger. MO; Mrs. F. 1. Gaston, ()!*.
Representatives at LVgeS. G. Little, 10; S. M. Vincent, OS.
OFFICERS OF ALUMNI ASSOCIATIONS 
College of Fine Arts President, II. L. Heilman, 17; SecretnryTreusurer, Charlotte Smith, IS: Harry Bremmer, 20; II. W. Smith,
A.; Ruy Marl lor. A.; Marguerite Collette, A.; R. W. Sch inert/., 21;
Eleanor Tenor McCullough, 1.1; Esther Topp, IS.
College of Engineering -President, J. F. Laboon, M2; SecretaryTreasurer. G. L. Tilbrook. M5: David Henderson. M2; J. W. Dougherty, 
Ml; W. B. Sklnlclo, M7; T. F. Shea, MG; M. R. Walton, '09; II. G. 
Nlcliol, 21; II. S. Stockdule, 15; R. C. Cosgrove, MS.
College of IndustriesPresident, J. M. Orr 15; First Vice Presi
dent, G. T. I-Ieddaous, 20; Second Vice President. 11. 1C. Fox, 16; Secrotary-Treusuror. T. M. McDonald. 23; L. T. Kelly. I.; L. II. Lee, 
09; F. Miller, 09; F. A. Crothers, 21; W. B. Jones. 17; W. 11. Ritts, 
M2; C. K. Koont/., 17.
Margaret Morrison Carnegie CollegePresident. Mrs. C. R. 
Fettlce, M7; First Vice President, Sue Smith. 17; Second Vice Presi
dent, Millicent Leacli, 15; Secretary. Bernice Kruger. M9; Mrs. F. I. 
Gaston, 09; Josephine Whitney, '22; Dorotliv Grant. 23.
Executive CommitteeGail Sellers Fettke, 17: Sue Smith, 17;
Bess Sheets Gaston, 09; Florence Bechtel. M7: Edna Smith, 09; 
Josephine Whitney. 22; Dorothy Grant, 23; Bernice  Kruger, '19; 
Mary Craighead Brinton, Ml.
until last June. For the past five 
years Miss Alexander has also served 
as instructor at the Summer Session 
of Columbia University. While a 
member of the faculty in the College 
of Fine Arts, her work will also 
bring her in contact with the Depart
ment of Costume Economics in the 
Margaret Morrison Carnegie College.
Miss Feldlcirchner joins the Carne
gie Tech Staff after an extensive 
teaching experience that began in 
190G. She is a. native of Dixon, 111., 
and is a graduate of Stout Institute 
in Chicago, and of Chicago Univer
sity. Between the years of 1906 and 
1914, Miss Feldkirchner served as 
Instructor in the elementary schools 
of Tennessee, Iowa and Sandusky, 
Ohio. From 1916 to 1919, she was 
Instructor of Home Economics in the 
schools of Winnetlca, 111., and for the 
past four years, she has been an In
structor in Stout Institute.
Miss McKee, a native of Bradford, 
Mass., has studied at the Y. W. C. A.
in New York City and at Boston 
University, supplementing her edu
cation with several years practical 
training in various business connec
tions. For the past two years, Miss 
McKee has been Instructor of Secre
tarial Studies at the high school in 
Attlboro, Mass.
William E. Barclay of St. Louis, 
Mo., has been appointed Instructor 
in Typography and Advertising lay
outs. Mr. Barclay, who is a practical 
printer of.30 years experience, will 
be attached to the Department of 
Printing and Publishing in the Col
lege of Industries, and will teach 
both day and evening classes.
During his residence in St. Louis, 
Mr. Barclay was connected at vari
ous times with nearly every newspa
per in that city, attached to either 
the advertising or the proof depart
ments. Other connections have been 
the Von Hoffman Press and as an ad
vertising lay-out man with the An
gelica Jacket Company in St. Louis.
He is a graduate of the Teachers 
Training Course for Printers given 
by the Extension Department of the 
University of Missouri. He has also 
acquired considerable educational ex
perience as a lecturer before the 
classes for Journeymen Printers giv
en in the high schools of St. Louis, 
and during the past summer he was 
engaged in production work at the 
United Typothatae School of Printing 
in Indianapolis.
PATRONIZE OUR ADVERTISERS
N
O one ever 
gets tired of 
Melachrinos  
their unfailing 
quality is a con
stant satisfaction.
al ORIGINALMELACHRINO
"The One Cigarette Sold the World Over
Every
Student
Needs
One
iiN you have a brilliant thought, write it 
dow n. It may be about biology 1, a new 
way of handling the forward pass, or a note to Dad. 
Whatever i t iswrite /on a Remington Portable.
This little machine is al\va}'s ready. You can 
tap out your thoughts far faster and easier than 
you can write with a pen.
Compactfits in a case only four inches high.
Completehas the four-row keyboard like the big machines, 
and other big machine features.
Convenientcan be operated on your lap if you wish, for 
it carries its table on its back.
Price, complete with case, $60. Easy payment terms if desired
Remington Typewriter Co. 
102 Sixth Street 
Pittsburgh, Pa.
