FROLIC OF THE 
VANITIES 
MARCH 5, 1920(Slip (lari an
ARE YOU 
A TRACKMAN? 
REPORT TO GYM.
VOL. XIV. No. 17.CARNEGIE INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY, PITTSBURGH, PENNSYLVANIA.FEBRUARY 4, 1920.
Science School to Initiatiate
Poverty Day as Annual Affair
Plebes to Appear in Costumes
Expressing Their Idea of Poverty
Band to Lead Parade
On Friday the Science Plebes will 
have their first chance to show off 
when this school will introduce Pov
erty Day. This event is exercised 
annually at some schools and it is 
hinted that it may also become a tra
dition at Tech. Since the majority of 
the students generally express a 
sentiment of poverty whether it be in 
support of some function or not.
Next Friday every Plebe of the di
vision of Science and Engineering will 
be required to appear from 8:30 to 
4:30, in a costume which expresses 
his idea of poverty. The best getup will be given special privileges 
from this time on; so it is well worth 
while to try to be that fortunate one. 
The Sophomores intend to check up 
on the Plebes and those not comply
ing with the regulations of the day, 
as well as those who are absent, will 
be dealt with severely.
The tentative plan is to have the
Plebes assemble at 12:45 in front of 
the Science entrance. If the weath
er permits the band will lead the pov
erty-stricken aggregation in a par
ade, to take place on the campus only, 
which will end on the Athletic Field 
where exercises are to be held. Steps 
have been taken to have classes off 
from 1:30 to 2:30. At the latest re
port it was expected that the Faculty 
would consent to this being done. In 
case of bad weather, a meeting will 
be held in Room 218, Science build
ing.
The entire affair is in the hands of 
the Sophomores but will be supported 
by all the upper classmen. Woe unto 
him who fails to appear in a costume 
which does not express Poverty 
even unto a barrel. The committee 
in charge is:
C. J. Copley, chairman,
F. J. Smith,
G. D. Martin.
ARTS NIGHT SCHOOL TO 
HOLD ACQUAINTANCE DANCE
It is a big item to collect dues from 
a class, but a still bigger problem is 
to know how to handle the sum col
lected in a manner to please all con
cerned.
This problem, the officers of the 
Night Division of Arts have assidu
ously been working out for the past 
few weeks, endeavoring to find some 
solution. President Weber and the 
Social Committee have met upon sev
eral occasions and, after sifting out 
the many suggestion and ideas offered, 
the following decision has been ar
rived at:
The money in the treasury shall 
be utilized to defray the expenses of a dance given by the Night De
sign Students on Friday evening, 
February the 13th, at Carnegie 
Union.
The purpose of this social evening 
will be to instigate a feeling of good 
fellowship between the students of 
the various divisions of the Design 
School; for example, between the 
Music Division and the Painting and 
Decorating, the Drama Section and 
the Architectural Department, the 
Painting and Decorating and the 
Music, etc., etc., as well as between 
the day and night classes of all these 
departments. It should be remem
bered that this is the first time in the 
history of the Design School that the 
night students have given a dance to 
the day students.
This affair has been spoken of as 
a Get Acquainted Danceit will en
able the student to meet his fellow 
classmates and make friends; it will 
help to banish the feeling of indiffer
ence which has heretofore always 
existed between the members of the 
various departments, and to establish 
one of interest and friendliness. There 
are several dances and a ball sched
uled for the latter part of this semes
ter, at which the day and night classes 
will intermingle and, with a view to 
promoting a feeling of friendliness, 
this Get Acquainted Dance has been 
planned. This appeal is made that 
you do not lose this opportunity of 
getting acquainted with your fellow 
students in an informal manner.
This is a free affaireveiything ab
solutely free, even the eats. Besides 
dancing, there are special features on 
the program, which will interest the 
non-dancers. The Committee have 
been working hard, putting forth 
every effort to get something started 
that will please everybody, even the 
cranks. Under Mr. Webers leader 
ship and backed by two such hustlers 
as Mr. Dyer and Mr. Stuart, the night 
school social activities ought to main
tain a creditable standing. The girls 
are also taking hold of this affair and 
are playing an active part in the prep
arations, contributing much toward 
making the dance a success. There 
have been loads of detailed arrange
ments to be carried out and put into 
effect, but everything will be set by
FRIDAY THE 13TH
PRES. BRYAN, COLGATE 
WILL ADDRESS STUDENTS
On Friday, the 6th, a series of ser
vices for students will be started at 
the First Baptist Church. These ser
vices will be held every Friday at 
4:30 P. M. Each service will begin 
with an organ recital of about 15 
minutes and the service proper will 
start at 4:45.
These meetings are run by a com
mittee of students of Tech and Pitt, 
who are attending to all the arrange
ments themselves. They are a direct 
result of the Student Volunteer Con
vention. They will help to fill the 
big gap in the life of Tech students, 
left by the lack of religious organiza
tions around the school. The meet
ings are non-sectarian, everyone is 
invited to come.
This Friday, President Elmer Burritt Bryan of Colgate will speak. He 
has a vital message for every student. 
Dr. Bryan served as Educational Di
rector in the Philippines during Tafts 
administration. He is now the edu
cational director at Chataqua. He is 
in great demand as a speaker in all 
the colleges, and is a favorite speaker 
in Pittsburgh. No student should miss 
this opportunity to hear him.
The organist at this first meeting 
will be Mrs. Wright and Mrs. Marjory 
Kiel-Benton will be the soloist. The 
choir will be made up from members 
of the glee clubs of Tech and Pitt.
GREASEWIPERS BASKET BALL 
JUNIORS VS. SOPHS
Friday, January 30, at 4:30 p. m. 
in the Carnegie Institute of Tech
nology Field House, the learned gang 
of greasewipers, alias the Junior me
chanicals took over the unsophisticat
ed greasewipers, alias the Soph me
chanicals to the tune of 28 .to 11. The 
game was hotly contestedonce. The 
remainder of the game the uppers 
ruled. From present prospects both 
gangs in the union will give other sec
tion teams a hot old time. Too many 
cigs hindered the breathing of the 
players but the Greasewipers acted 
like gentlemen toward each other, 
rarely making a foul. The first half 
the Juniors walked away with the 
game but in the second half the Sophs 
played on even terms. The line up of 
the two gangs was as follows:
Juniors Sophs.
Maurer ...................F........................Beck
Ravenscroft...........F...........Fitzimmons
Brandin ...................C......................Skyrm
Bloom .....................G..................Thomas
Nichol, Capt............G------Blesch, Capt.
Field goals: Nichol 5; Brandin 4;
Maurer 3; Bloom; Fitzimmons 3 
Skyrm; Beck; FoulsNichol 2 out of 
6; Skyrm 0 out of 2; Beck 0 out of 2; 
Fitzimmons 1 out of 1. Referee 
Skinny McCaw. Time of quarters 
71/fc minutes. Score 1st half Jrs. 19 to
2. Game Jrs. 28 to Sophs 11.
MUSIC, BIG FEATURE 
AT GENERAL ASSEMBLY
At the General Assembly of the 
whole school last Wednesday, music 
was. the big feature. Four different 
organizations gave selections. The 
first on the program was the band. 
This organization has made wonder
ful progress since last fall, and is now 
a very fine musical organization. They 
no longer have the old haphazard way 
of playing a piece, but now play for 
the best effect. Their selections in
clude classical and jazz music, both, of 
which are played in the right way. 
Anyone who can play a band instru
ment will find his time is not wasted 
if he joins the Tech band.
Following the bands selections
Yergey led a few cheers. Then Battman, president of the Student Council, 
took charge of the meeting. The first 
speaker on the program was W. H. 
(Red) Oakley, who gave a report on 
the accomplishments of the Student 
Council. Some of the work which has 
been done is as follows. The old
posters have been cleared from the 
campus. A cheerleader has been
elected, and plans formed for better 
cheering. Plans have been drawn, up 
for alumni rings. These rings are 
only for those who have taken degree 
courses.
An amendment to the Councils con
stitution, awarding jewelled insignia 
to the president of the Council and 
gold insignia to the other members 
was passed unanimously by the as
sembly.
The girls Glee Club next gave two 
selections. These songs were sung 
very well and show great promise for 
this organization. If they will keep up 
the good work they are doing now, 
their home concert will be a fine affair.
L. E. (Dutch) Emerich gave a re
port on the Students Volunteer Con
vention. This report contained an in
teresting account of the trip and of 
the meetings. He finished up by tell
ing that the delegates from Tech are 
planning, to organize a Y. M. C. A. at 
Tech. This will take place in a few 
weeks, and all students are urged to 
push the movement. It will result in 
raising the standard of Tech a great 
deal. We are the only school in the 
country without a Y and we need 
it more than any other.
Then followed three popular num
bers by the Stringers, the girls 
manolin club. These selections showed 
the organization to be of the very 
highest class. They put lots of pep 
into their playing and at times it was 
hard for the audience to sit still. The 
women of Carnegie Tech are certain}- 
ly showing that they will take no sec
ond place when it comes to music. i
Mr. Aspinwall, of the Student 
Council gave a report on Home Com
ing Week. This is to be held in May, 
probably beginning on Thursday the 
13th. It is up to everyone to help. 
On Thursday it is planned to have 
the regular qualification day exer
cises. The school will also be open 
for exhibition purposes. On Friday 
morning the Alumni will play baseball 
with the Varsity. In the afternoon 
the Varsity plays Bucknell. In the 
evening there will either be a play in 
Design school or a pageant on the 
athletic field. On Saturday morning 
there will be an inter-scholastic trackmeet under the auspices of the school, 
and also a dual meet between Geneva 
and Tech. In the afternoon a circus 
will be held and in the evening there 
will be a reception and dance in the 
Music Hall.The Glee Club gave two selections, 
De Kovins Recessional and Dixie 
Band. In these pieces they showed 
their versatility in that they sing clas
sical and popular music equally well. 
Great things are expected at the home 
concert. The assembly closed with 
two selections by the band.
ARTS STUDENTSTWAIT MYSTERIOUS NITE
Friday night the students of the 
School of Painting and Decoration 
will assemble in their studios on pleas
ure bent. Mysterious Nite they call 
the evening when Bohemians holds 
sway and the committee in charge of 
this years revel says that everything 
is prepared to make this party the 
most enjoyable ever held.
Greenwich Village will have to ad
mit its inferiority when those Tech 
artists start to act up, and judging by 
the interest they are taking in the af
fair this year its bound to be a hum
dinger.
SCIENCE STAG 
Saturday Night, February 28 
Hold That Date Open
"PLEBE PLAY TO BE 
PRESENTED FRIDAY
The Friday afternoon performance 
in the Little Theatre this week may 
be of unusual interest because it will 
be presented by a cast consisting entinely of first year students in the 
School of Drama. Some of those tak
ing part have advanced standing, hav
ing had previous experience in pro
fessional work or in other schools, but 
the parts are quite well balanced, and 
offer an opportunity to almost all of 
those concerned in the production.
The play to be given is Rainald 
and the Red Wolf, a Mediaeval 
Masque by Thomas Wood Stevens 
and Kenneth Sawyer Goodman. Mr. 
Stevens is directing the rehearsals, 
and the performance is certain to be 
as finished and effective as it could 
possibly be made with the material he 
has to work with.
The Plebe Play, as their first play 
is called, naturally seems to those con
cerned the biggest thing that has ever 
happened, and it is to be hoped that 
a good sized audience will be on hand 
at 4:00 oclock Friday afternoon. 
There are usually some interesting de
velopments which have not been re
hearsed to look forward to at these 
first attempts.
The cast is as follows:
Rainald ..............................John Heater
Ysobel..............................Helen Forrest
Florino..................................Justin Lees
The Bishop.....................John McClure
The Crier of Lavayne........Lois Shore
Guild-Master of the Armorers.........
................................George Goodrich
Guild-Master of the Wool-Mercharits........... .Alexander WyckofT
Guild-Master of the Bakers.............
.....................................Donald Colpitts
First Burghers Wife.Helen Bassinger
Second Burghers Wife.....................
................................... Virginia Tenor
Third Burghers Wife..Dolly Paxton
An Old Woman.............Cloyde Dalzell
An Old Beggar...............Arthur Lubin
A Market Girl.............Dorothy Schell
Waldemar................Lawrence Chrowe
A Captain........................William Spear
A Herald...............Harold Schaughnecy
dryer of Pilgrims..........William Beyer
An Old Gleeman........Jack Willard
A Jongleur.............Louise Cunningham
A Lady.........................Sarah Morrison
Fear. .....................Lela May Aultman
Greed........................................Ross Hertz
Sloth.......................................James Daly
An Angel.......................Martha Johnson
The Church...............Dorothy Chalmers
A Wolf...................Wilfred Bloomberg
Citizens, Laidies in Waiting, Cour
tiers, Villagers.
Students in the Saturday Morning 
Qualifing Course are assisting as part 
of the cast in the lesser roles.
-Or-ARTS SOPHS EATING
Last night while the Tartan was 
whizzing thru the press, the Arts 
sophs were stealthily entering the 
Fort Pitt Hotel. No, safe cracking 
was not their aim, they were gath
ering for their annual feed. Just who 
was there and what happened we can 
not say now, but if you will look in 
next weeks Tartan you will see the 
whole story.
INDUSTRIES SOPHS 
PRACTICE ON PLEBES
On January 23, the Sophomores of 
the Industries Division held another 
Plebe trial. For several weeks the 
Plebes had been running wild, and 
laughing up their sleeves at what they 
thought they were getting away with. 
But, he who laughs last, laughs best, 
and the Sophs, laughed last.
The Regulations Committee gath
ered a group of violators in the School 
Assembly room, and before the three 
upper classes, proceeded to mete out 
justice.
P. D. Aikens acted as Judge and 
Ralph Shanno as prosecuting attor
ney. Six Freshmen were brought to 
trial, and what excuses, alibis ,etc., 
they offered would fill a book, but, all 
to no avail, for after much delibera
tion, the jury found them all guilty.
Hurl Adams, who wore spats, 
(think of it, spats on a Plebe) was 
sentenced to wear a dress for a period 
of one week and carry a sign explain
ing to others of his kind, what a big 
boob he was for doing such a thing. 
Adams wore the dress for two hours 
and happened to strike an English 
class where the instructor gave his 
views on the subject of hazing. Of 
course, faculty interference where it 
is not needed, always results disast
rously. Adams proceeded to take off 
the regalia and refused flatly to put 
it on again. The next afternoon an 
impromptu trial was held for Adams, 
who was found guilty of disobeying 
rules, and as a result, lost a perfectly 
good head of hair.
The punishment of the five other 
Plebes was varied; some received 
bricks to carry, others very liberal 
applications of paint.
There is a culld gemn attends 
classes in Industries, and claims to 
be a member of the Division of Psy
chology, said person being a Plebe 
and not obeying regulations; as a re
sult he was brought to trial. The 
Psychology Department had a person 
there to represent the high brown 
boy, but the representative was ejec
ted from the room, and the Plebe 
suffered along, with the others.
Moral: Nothing stops the, Sopho
mores in their endeavor to give Jus
tice.
Plaid Loses Fa& Contest
To Grove City Cagemen
Team Suffers Fourth Consecutive Defeat 
Although Fighting Spirit is Manifested
Hamman and Lynn Play Be^l for Tech 
Smith Stars for Visitors.
Playing a smooth, fast passing 
game, altho at times somewhat loose,
Grove City downed the Tartan five 
Friday night, *11-32. Due to Windy 
Lynns excellent foul shooting the first 
hall finished with Tech one point in 
the lead, but when the Presbyterians 
came back proved to be a little 
too much foi"he Plaid. Smith, their 
forward kept his eye constantly on 
the basket getting three in the first 
half and four in the second, while 
Gould and Stepanian guarded too 
closely for the Tech forwards.
The would-be preliminary game be
tween the Plebes and the East Lib
erty Y. M. C. A., which was called off 
due to the none appearance of the Y 
team caused much unrest and lack of 
interest by the usual crowd of spec
tators when the big game was called 
and many tense moments which al
ways produce a hush and silence were 
passed unseen.
Lynn was Techs chief scorer, get
ting 18 of the 32 points scored by 
Tech. His foul shooting resumed its 
old standard, but only two of his 
shoots from the center of the floor 
proved successful.
At center Captain Carey proved 
better than his opponent in getting 
the tip-off, but the sad part is that 
a Red and Black representative in
stead of a Plaid player received the
ball. Carey did some fine guarding 
and sent the sphere thru the basket twice.
Hamman was at his best Friday 
night playing a wonderful game both 
on the defensive and offensive. He 
seemed to be the only Tech player 
that could pass the Grove City guards.
Moon made his debut in goal shoot
ing, proving that it is in him to shoot 
goals, altho he is very seldom success
ful. Allen seemed to have lost some 
of speed but his clever guarding kept 
more than one Grove City man guess
ing. Gibson substituted for Allen in 
the last part of the second half and 
for the little time that he was in showed up well.
Smith and Stepanian were the star 
performers for the visitors.
Grove City 41 Toch32
Smith.....................F............... Hamman
Sellers...................F...................... Allen
Ruddock ..............C...................... Carey
Gould ...................G...................... Moon
Stepanian............G...........................Lynn
Substitutions: Hedges for Sellers, 
Gibson for Allen. Field goals; Smith 
7, Ruddock 2, Gould 2, Stepanian 3, 
Hamman 3, Carey 2, Allen 1, Moon 1, Lynn 2.
Fouls: Gould 16 out of 24, Lynn14 out of 20.
Referee: A1 Slack. Umpire: Baird.
OLD SOL SPOILS 
SKATING PARTY PLANS
Owing to the melting of the ico 
on the athletic field, the skating party 
under the auspices of the Margaret 
Morrison Athletic Association was 
forced to be postponed. Through the 
efforts of the girls, the fire department 
from Oakland had flooded the field 
Thursday evening and everyone was 
kept off the ice Friday. But the sun 
and the warm spell conspired to spoil 
the party which was forced to be post
poned to a later date. Margaret Mor
rison will no doubt produce some sec
ond Charlottes if the ice holds out. 
Each afternoon sees a fair represen
tation on the ice. Last week the gym 
classes were permitted to skate in 
place of the regular gym period. Miss 
Patten, who has charge of the skat
ing, is quite an adept in the art.----------O----------
C. M. E. S. HOLDS BIG MEETING
Sales Manager of B. & W. Gives 
Interesting Talk.
The Carnegie Mechanical Engineer
ing Society held one of the most suc
cessful meetings of the year last Wed
nesday night in Machinery Hall.
The Society went to considerable 
trouble to find the best speaker avail
able, and was able to secure Mr. 
Chester, sales manager of the Pitts
burgh district for The Babcock & 
Wilcox Company.
Mr. Chester gave an exceedingly in
teresting talk on boilers, illustrating 
with a fine series of lantern slides. 
Many members availed themselves of 
the opportunity to clear up various 
small points on boilers.
A part of the talk that was possibly 
appreciated more than anything else 
was the advice and information Mr. 
Chester gave regarding the value of 
engineering training in salesmanship 
and executive work.
A short business meeting was held 
after Mr. Chester concluded his talk. 
M. S. Gare, who is now in Night 
School, will continue as secretary of 
the Society and Walter J. Blenko was 
elected vice-president.
It is hoped that C. M. E. S. will 
now be able to interest more night 
students than formerly, and Soph. 
Mechanicals are urged to turn out at 
the next meeting. Nearly fifty men 
were present last Wednesday, and an 
active membership of eighty is ex
pected before March.
----------0---------
Mr. Finley, President of the G. N. 
R. R. is coming here in the near fu
ture and will speak at Tech under aus
pices of the A. A. E.
C. E. SOCIETY HOLDS 
INTERESTING MEETING
rho Civil Engineering Society held 
its second mooting on Thursday, Jan. 
22. The second mooting was, if pos
sible, bettor than the first, having a 
good attendance including Pop 
Thayor. (Pop was absent last time; very unusual, 1 take it.)
The speaker of the evening was
F. M. Ilarbison who is collection man
ager for Jones & Laughlin. Mr. Hurbisons subject was The Value of a 
Good Name in Business.
Not only was the topic in itself 
interesting and well presented, but its 
value was further enhanced by the 
fact that it was removed from the rut 
of technical engineering, discussion 
giving the hearers a glimpse into bus
iness conditions, which was extremely 
Illuminating.
After the talk, Mr. Ilarbison an
swered questions and toward the end 
displayed considerable sagacity to the 
anlusomont of all present, in answer
ing one insistent interrogator.
A vote of thanks was given the speaker.
The meeting then adjourned for 
refreshments to the Science Club 
Room.
Ye goode olde doggs again barked 
morrily as they were inserted with 
sweet pickles between the halves of 
warm buns and consumed to a pipinghot coffee accompaniment. (Thanks 
to W. E. Baron, grand master of the 
eats.)
The repertoire of Civil Songs and 
Cheer concluded the profitable even
ing, and all slipped home, across the 
cut. (Slipped is good. They near 
broke their necks, it was that slippery 
on the cut that evening.)
The Civil Engineering Society takes 
this opportunity to thank the Jones 
& Laughlin Steel Company for their 
diminutive handbooks of Useful In
formation for Business Men, Mechan
ics and Engineers, which they re
ceived several days later. They were 
certainly a pleasant surprise.----------D----------MARGARET MORRISON NOTES.
Mr. Dodge of the Syrian Protestant 
College is to address the next Assem
bly. Ht is also to address the In
dustries Assembly on the same day.
Miss Mary G. Ingersoll, formerly 
of the M. M. faculty, has returned as 
instructor in the Costume Economics 
Department.
Miss Hinman, head of the Costume 
Economics Department, has returned 
to school after an absence due to the 
death of her mother.
Miss Helen Senn, '18, visited M. M. 
last Saturday.
HllllllllllilllllllllfniHlllllllllllllllllllllllltHUI
UNO
THE PROM 
FRIDAY FEBRUARY 20 
Going ?
UJjllllBMIMUIUIWlWMliltlirailllUliUlUlinillUllliilUlllllllUUlJIUMHM

---------------------------------------------------

PAGE TWO.THE TAJtTAMWEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 4, 1920.
P. LliDEBUEHL AND SON
PNN AND FR^IKSTOWN .AVENUES
$8.50 to $16.60
CUT DOWN: YOUR 8HOE EXPEN8E by buying better ohoeu. You will find them far ||j cheapor to wear than ohoeo 
(f) which are not no high in quality, 
h.) Our new modelo for FALL and ffl WINTER are now In, and they $ are full of anapJuot  nultable ra for the .collcfle man.i
OAKLAND 
SAVINGS & TRUST 
COMPANY
Member Federal Reserve System 
Capital - - - $200,000.00 
Surplus and Undivided
Profits - - $260,000.90 
Deposits, Over - $4,000,000.00
IRON CNTYIEL .YSNI OYA ANFL
M TRANSITS AND LEVEL8 ALL SUPPLIE8 FOR THE (S .DRAFTING ROOM
Englncera' Equipment, Inatru- mohtij of Preclnlpn, Blue Print nnd Brown Print Pnpera Mnd Cloths.''^
n. B. K. ELLIOTT CO.
[j 126 8IXTH STREET
S/SUT9icUS/c2/lS/tS/I9/S/QiQ/S/SfS/SiSlc2/Q/S/B/fi/S/D2/BiJ
Brown & Zortman 
Machine Co.
Union Arcade 
Pittsburgh Penna
TYPEWRITERS AND f 
ADDING MACHINES 
All makes sold, rented and 
repaired; allowing rental to ap
ply on purchase.
acferwioods Our 
Specialty 
Written guarantee with each 
machine, 
g! Victor and Fox agency.
FORT PITT 
TYPEWRITER CO.
$428 FOURTH AVENUE 
Near Post Office
Phone Court 866
QJlj? artan
Published every week by undergraduate of the Carnegie Institute of 
Technology under the supervision of the Sfcjiaent Activities Board. ;
Entered in the poatoffice of JPitts^urgVas aecond-claaa^ matter.
Thi* year f 1.60
SUBSCRIPTION RATES 
6c the copyCanada, $1.76
Kditor-in-Chief.............................................. ......................LeRoy E. Eracrich
Phone Hazel 9422
Buiines Manager ...........      ............ .....................................T.. W. AllsworthPhone Hazel 9425. -
EDITORIAL 
Managing Editor 
L. K. Paquin
Assistant Managing Editor 
F. I. Smith 
C. L. Lake 
New Editor 
J. T. Amea 
Aaaociatc Ncwa Editor 
W. D. Hall
Athlctic Editor
G. R. Goodrich
Assistant Athlctic Editors 
Fred L. Knowles 
S. P. Smith , 
Circulation Manager
H. G. Atchley
School Editor
M. M. C. S......... Margaret J. Griffen
Science.....................J. K. W. Macalpine
Industries..........................J. R. Rudiaill
Arts............................. .T. R. Hinckley
Other Assistants 
L. A. McCardell 
Arthur Lubin 
Gertrude Baton 
Margaret Stolzenbaugh 
Adele Gumbert 
Olga Kiefer
BUSINESS STAFF 
D. A. Sillera 
N. E. Fox 
Wmi Obenour
Advertising Manager 
M. I. Cohen
TARTAN OFFICE..........................................................................Room 162, Design
Hours1:00 to 4:00 Wednesdays.
12:00 to 1:00 Thursdays.
The Editor-in-Chief is responsible for the policy of this paper; the Man
aging Editor for the make up.
All buaineaa communications should be sent to the Business Manager. 
Any delay in delivery of this paper or change of address should be reported 
at once.
The Tartan welcomes all communications of student interest, if signed, 
the aignature to be withheld if desired.
All news items must be in the student postoflice, Central Building, before 
4:30 P. M. Fridays.
THE PLEBE HAT
The Freshmen dont like the present style of Plebe Hat. Of course, we 
dont expect that they would like, it if it were any other style, either, but it 
might be easier to bear if it were symbolic of something and at least well 
enough made to hold together and signify something besides a badge of 
humiliation or at least class distinction.
That hat used now is shaped so that it will lit no head that was ever built, 
and is only a poor imitation of what is worn at some other colleges which 
have no excuse for a distinctive form of headdress such as we have. The 
only part of the hat which shows the Plaid that should be the most important 
feature is the band which is usually covered' by the brim being turned up. 
It is unjust to call the edge of the thing a brim, but for lack of a fitting word 
that one must be used. The green button is so placed and so insecurely 
attached that it is an invitation to lose it. We havent seen a hat with the 
button still on it for a couple of months, it seems. And as for the band of 
color above the Plaid which is supposed to indicate the Division which the 
wearer is attendingit is usually so frayed or faded that recognition of its 
original shade is next to impossible; The hat itself has come to mean abso
lutely nothingif it ever did stand for anything, that significance has long' 
been forgotten. All that remains is a badly designed and poorly made badge 
of Plebodom.
The Arts Division has recently made a ruling that all Plebe Hats must 
be worn Over-Seas style, that is, with d cVease pinned thi*u the middle and 
the edges turned up. This covers up the Pliiid effectively, but the wearing 
of it over one ear as the A. 10. F. wore their hats gives a jaunty air that adds 
to its appearance greatly. The ruling naturally broke a tradition to some 
extent, for the freshman in the Arts Division hiis been required to wear the 
brim of his hat turned down for the last three years at least. But the chang
ing of custom has in this case at least, we think, resulted in more good than 
harm, and wo see no reason why steps should not be taken to improve the 
design and general appearance of the one uniform article of clothing worn 
by llie mombois of Tech.
Everyone is familiar with the general form of the hat worn by the 
Scotchman, tho small rather boatshaped affair that is not unlike the overseas 
cap, with tho two short ribbon streamers down the back, . It seems that ah 
adaption of this stylo might easily be adopted instead of t)ie meaningless 
contraption now used. Why not a cap of this kind, the body of it of black 
or dark blue cloth with an edging of about two inches of plaid around the 
edge? A small letter "C!" in the color of the Division attended might bo 
placed just to the loft of tho front, of the cap in the manner in which a button 
or rosette Is sometimes worn, nnd two short streamers, possibly two inches 
long, of the same color would finish off the headpiece in tho back.
Such an article would serve to show the freshness of the wearer, and at 
tho same time would stand for something in the traditions .of our Institution. 
This question has often been talked about, but has never come to a point 
whore anything definite was done about the matter. The only way it can 
amount to anything is by action of the students themselves as a whole. Think 
it over and lets talk it over when we got together. It may not be a burning 
question, but its one worthy o:f consideration.----------:-----
PUBLICITY
Recently plans were made which would strengthen and promote the 
athletic conditions at Tech. Well made were the plans indeed but there 
seems to be a slip somewhere.
Supporters resort to local newspapers always for the report of results 
in Techs athletic world. What disappointment musCbe theirs when they are 
unable to find anything very often. In our anxiety to promote our sports 
we have probably forgotten the most important factor-publicity. Where 
is it?Publicity does not only consist in seeing results in the local or other 
newspapers. One student, returning to school remarked, When I attended 
school before everybody used to brag about Tech, now they /crab about it. 
Dont you agree with him? The situation now is a host of undercurrents on 
the campus, everyone of them expressing a bitter sentiment against the ad
ministration, against policies in athletics and against the faculty. No doubt 
leniency and consideration on the part of the faculty would help matters 
considerably but a concession on the part of the students is also ne'cessary. 
Must we be everlasting nagging in our loyal (?) spirit? Are we meeting each 
other on a square basis?
Of late local papers have not contained much of a report on games or 
athletic affairs. There is reason to doubt the efficiency of our publicity 
bureau. Most of the prominent schools have organized a press club, the 
duty of which is to keep their school on the map. Why would such a club 
not benefit our interests, athletic or otherwise? As it is now hosts of ardent 
supporters labor in the depths of ignorance as to what we are doing in the 
sport world. If any are interested in the press club plan, step up and start it.
SENIOR PARTEA
Pat&jnize The Tartan Advertisers^
History has boon made in t he school 
affairs of Tech.
On Friday, January 30th, at 3:15, 
was held an affair at the Union unique 
in the history of C. I. T. For the first 
time the senior classes of all four 
schools got together for what was 
originally intended as a Senior Tea, 
but was later advertised as a Senior 
Partea.
The purpose of the affair was to 
get the Seniors of all the schools to
gether, get them acquainted and by 
so doing produce better school spirit
among the Seniors, who by the way, 
hope to bo Alumnae soonwhich 
spirit cannot but help produce a salu
tary effect upon the school as a whole.
It brought the Seniors together, 
made them feel.as if they belonged to 
one alma mater ,and did a great deal 
to eradicate that isolated four-school 
feeling which is so detrimental to an 
institution of the typo of Tech. That 
this will later manifest itself in a more 
sympathetic and coordinated alumnae body is obvious if one .takes but a 
moment to consider.
The general development of the idea 
of the Senior Partea was taken care 
of by the Senior class presidents of 
the four schools. They consist of 
Miss Agnes Piper, M. M. D.; J. D. 
Beatty, Science; Williamson, Design; 
and Heddeus, Industries.
The detailed arrangement was in 
charge of a committee of Seniors of 
the Margaret Morri.son School con
sisting of Rhobie McCloskey, chair
man of social committee; Mildred 
Krummel, Hazel Schaeffer, Janet 
Rutherfbrd, Blanche Sheppard and 
Isabel" Earseman.
And some nifty little arrangers they 
are.
The affair was entirely informal.
From the beginning of the Paul 
Jones with its merry confusion and 
frequently changing partners, thru the 
leap year Curtain Dance wherein 
the girls picked out the boys, who 
were behind a; curtainonly feet vis
ible (feet never looked that big be
fore)down thru the various other 
features all went happily and to the 
utmost enjoyment of all participating.
Refreshments consisting of ice 
cream, cake and coffee were served .
At this point we might add that 
Phil Marshall, captain of last years 
football team, was present. Phil 
doesn't dance, but the way he can con
sume ice cream is little short of mirac
ulous. We know, for we watched him.
One of the features of the after
noon was an Elimination Dance. 
About fifty copies of the Sea Ease 
which were given to the committee by 
the Senior Civils were numbered and 
distributed to the boys, while corres
ponding numbers on cards were given 
the girls. When the parties having 
the same numbers located each other 
the dance was started. Numbers cor
responding to those of the dancing 
couples were placed in a hat and were 
withdrawn and announced at regular 
intervals, and those whose numbers 
were called out left the floor. The 
last couple remaining were presented 
with a prize.
As the crowd gathered around with 
abated breath and expectant faces, 
the prizes were gingerly unwrapped 
by the winners. After wading thru 
what seemed to be numberless bags 
and interminable wrappings, the prize 
was reachedtwo all-day suckers.
The affair, a supreme success, broke 
up around 6 oclock.
Miss Harriet and Miss Rupert acted 
as chaperones.
President and Mrs. Hammerschlag 
were present.
Great idea, some of the alumnae 
who heard of the affair exclaimed, we 
should have done that, too.
DORM DANCE TO BE
ONE OF YEARS BEST
Special Features Planned.
That those who live in the dormi
tories can step out to a lively tune 
will be shown on Saturday night, 
when the residents of Dormitories No. 
4 and No. 6 will trip the light fan
tastic.
Barrow's Jazz Orchestra will, fur
nish familiar strains from Jazzland 
which attributes much to the expected 
success,
The committee in charge isr 
C, J. Copley, chairman,
Vander Volf,
Campbell.
^nniHHMiiPP'iPnfnnnniin.^fnTriHFnn"
See Daily Papers for Informationof 
our 25% Clearance Sale.
GOODLOWS GOOD CLOTHES
Of purest Wool
Of finest Make
Durable
Lasting
Of latest Styles
Wonderful values
Sure Satisfaction !
Goodlows Good Clothes
Opportunitys
Offer of Style-perfection
Dress Up ! Buy Now !
College Men appreciate them 
Ladies admire Men who wear them 
Others envy them-^
This is your chance
Here is your selection
Even now awaiting your visit 
SERVICE FIRST 1
507 Market St., 
209r211 Smithfield St.,
932 Liberty Avei 
Akron Reading
Amsterdam Schenectady
Cleveland Syracuse
Milwaukee Terre Haute
Pittsburgh Wilkes-Barre
(3 stores) Youngstown
m |p m
Ulllllllllllllll!lltlllll!llllllllllllllll!llilllllllllllllUIII!llllllllll!IIIIIIIIIIIIII!llll!llll!lllill!lllllll!lllllll!!l!lil-jillllllll!li!!i
IWIHIlllHIIPIIllllllHIlirailPlllllfi
BATTERY
Excle
SERVICE
EAYF DELP NBNDLAED DYX
Broad and Sheridan Ave. 
All Kinds of Batteries 
Repaired and Recharged
iiiiiiiiiviiniiiKill
Mention the TARTAN when buying of these Advertisers.
THE TURKISH CIGARETTE

---------------------------------------------------

WEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 4, 1920.THK TARTAN
Kappa Sigma Rho.
On Saturday evening January 81 
six new members were envested with 
the fraterhity pin, Mes^r?. McLean, 
Rorhbach. Lelteberger, Bollinger, 
Vamm and.rWininld.  After the^ inv. 
itiation, attended by twenty of the 
older members,'a banquet'was served 
Prof. Barnes * Of.- the department of 
economics, acting as toastmaster.
Men of Senior and Junior classes 
of the Division of Industries will re
member Phil Twiford. Phil made one 
of his periodic visits to Pittsburg last 
week, stopping off at the house to re
new old friendships and form new 
ones.
DRESS SUITS
FOR HIRE
Also Complete -Stock of Tuxedos, Cutaways, Prince 
Alherts, etc. Evening Wear Accessories.
There are only three more weeks 
till the big dajT. It is going to be a 
time that will Tie marked down in the 
memory of every Junior, Senior and 
AiUmhus present as one of the great
est dances they ever attended. A 
special ten-piece orchestra of Maggios is to furnish the music for the 
evening and one will have to go a 
long distance to hear anything better 
to dance to. A delicious menu for the 
mid-night supper has been arranged 
and the committee promises no one 
shall go hungry. During supper and 
at several intermissions during the 
evening entertainment has been sched
uled so that not one of the precious 
moments that you are there will be 
wasted.
The sale of preliminary ticket's 
closed last Wednesday and orders foiprogrammes and favors based on the 
sale of these have been placed. If 
you are planning on going and have 
not bought a preliminary ticket you 
should see one of the committee at 
once so the order of programmes and 
favors may be increased if necessary 
to take care of you.
A competition of posters for the 
advertisement of the prom, has been 
conducted by the School of Painting 
and Decoration and some excellent 
ones have been turned out by the stu
dents. The Prom committee has of
fered prizes for the three best posters. 
The (winners have, as the Tartan goes 
to press, not been announced.
WHITTINGTON DRESS SUIT CO.
6001-6002-6003 JENKINS ARCADE 
Bell Phone Grant 15S7. Night PhoneNeville 1536-W.
TRADE
The Joy of Winter Swimming.
Dormitory Notes.
On Friday night Woodlawn C held 
an informal dance at the house. This 
week Woodlawn A. is to have a house 
dance to which all. Woodlawn Dormi
tory girls are invited.
Sunday afternoon Forbes Hall en
tertained Mellon Hall at tea. This 
was the first inter.-dorm affair of the 
year.
W
D C Pipes 'are.-certainly a mans smoke. They bring 
the stnokejoy which every man seeks. Its in the 
mellow French briar, which is guaranteed against cracking cr 
burning through, in quality of bit and band, and in workman
ship and design. Select several shapes today at any good 
'dealers. Smoke a cool one every time.
The exercise derived from swimming has not only the endorsement of our leading social workers but our most eminent physicians as well. Moet people indulge in swimming in the good old summer time but the fact remains that the body needs the exercise derived more in winter than In the summer, when it is possible to get outdoors in the opon and avoid the evils that come from a pent-up life. The last person to fall ill from colds, coughs and the more serious winter ailments is the habitual winter swimmer, whose flesh becomes hardened and is thus able to resist sever weather. Theres a lot of joy, vigor and wholesome exerciee to be derived by swimming that can be had in no other way. The Pittsburg hNatotor- ium Pool is open all winter.
TUESDAY AND THURSDAY POOL IS FOR LADIES ONLY.
FR OLI C T H E VARN SL AM5
WORLD'S LARGEST MAKERS OF FINE PIPES
THE GRAFF CO
,1920(N (lip0(N ar,91n0(N
THE 
NEW PEKIN
MANTELS AND TILING 
PITTSBURGH. PA.
PHONES:
Bell, 559 Grant P. & A., 559 Main
AMERICAN AND CHINESE 
RESTAURANT
SPECIAL DINNER SERVED
11 to 2 and 5 to 8
MUSIC AT LUNCH AND DINNER '
EXCELLENT MEALS AT REASONABLE PRICES 
TO STUDENTS
3708 Forbes Street Schcnley 3403 
OAKLAND Y. M MING, Mgr. i
17 Black Degrees 3 Copying
II Phono* 57! A 91C9 Schenlay 
P. A A. 1092-R 
229 ATWOOD 8TREET 
PITT81URGH, PA.
Household Good Moved, Stored, 
Packed and Shipped.Plans for the Frolic of the Vanities 
are rapidly taking form. The execu
tive committee announces March 5 as 
the date of the big ball. Any student 
or alumnus who has paid his school 
dues of $1.50 may obtain liis pass 
fi-om the secretary without further 
cost. To clear up any doubt which 
may remain the executive committee 
wishes it understood that no outsiders 
can obtain passes, as this year's 
classic will as in previous years be 
limited absolutely to students and 
alumni of the Division of the Arts.
While the executive committee has 
been arranging the business end of 
the ball, the entertainment commit
tee has been just as active working 
up what should prove to be the most 
interesting program ever announced 
for an Arts ball. As usual a splendid 
midnight supper will be served in the 
exhibition room. During the meal 
skilled performers will entertain the 
guests with a well-chosen program of 
vaudeville. Plans for a ballet in the 
theatre are also under way, but no 
definite announcement can be made at 
this date.
The decorations are all planned and 
thanks to the invaluable aid of Prof. 
Ellington should far surpass any deco
rating scheme used in the past. In 
this connection . the students of the 
School of Architecture were given an 
esquisse esquisse program on this 
problem and many clever ideas were 
submitted to the jury.
Students who have not paid their 
school dues should get in touch with 
the treasurer at once and do so in 
order .that they may obtain their 
passes from the secretary.----------0----------The Coraopolis Y. M. C. A. has of
fered two scholarships of $500 each to 
deserving ex-service men, who desire 
to attend the C. I. T. In addition, a 
sum of $1,000 has been set aside, to 
be split in such amounts as to furnish 
funds for short courses, such as sales
manship, and other special branches, 
for a group- of men.
AMERICAN LEAD PENCIL CO.
and at the four <ireat 
Stock- Markets
STUDENTS WELCOME
Fred Suddaby s Cafeteria
BUREAU OF MINES BUILDING
11 A. M. to 2 P. M. Every School Day
GREAT EATS AT
THE SCHENLEY LUNCH 
FORBES AND CRAIG STREETS
FRED SUDDABY, Proprietor
DANCING LESSONSCLA83 ANO PRIVATE
BELL PHONECRAIQ AND FORBE8
Stock Exchange, Boston
St:jc!c Exchange, Philadelphia
Futiimi'a unios uro highest
piXONSThese four big financial cen
ters are perhaps the last places 
at which one would expect the 
formerly fashionable straight 
Turkish cigarettes to lose their 
leadership. But at all four 
places, these expensive straight 
Turkish brands are far less 
popular than the inexpensive, 
just-enough - Turkish Fatima.
7Ae master drawing pencil'
A man is judged by the 
pencil he keeps.
A well-sharpened Dixons 
Eldorado is a friend to be 
proud of.
, JOSEPH DIXON CRUCIBLE CO. : A 
A Pencil 1 Jersey City, -V. J. M
\\ ' Canadian  jf: V\ A. lt.  Co., T.t'I. W /
Stock Exchange, New York
Fatima is the best seller
lupino non
onefor every need or preference -Just Enough Turkish
Fatima does not contain too much Turkish like the straight Turkish cigarettes nor too little like the poorer Turkish hlends.
Fatima contains just enough Turkish just enough to taste right and just enough to leave a man feeling right, even when he smokes more than usual.
Are you, personally, smoking too much  or too little'or just enoujh Turkish ?
HELLO, BILL, MEET ME AT THE
Board of 
Trad e,Chicago
Fatima outsells every straight Turkish brandFATIMA
SKIB0 INN
EATS
Cigars and Candy
OAKLAND
COMMUNITY
HOUSEA Sensible Cigarette

---------------------------------------------------

ffluiiff S>I;alfm (ttnngmjatinn
Fifth and Morcwood Avenues.
Samuel H. Goldonnon, Ph. D., Rabbi. 
Temple Study Tol., Cchcnloy 2715.
i 1 SUNDAY LECTURE 
} ,Sunday Morning; at 11:10. 
Subject:  Enlightened Selfishness.
Sabba'tlv Service, Saturday Morning 
at 10:45.
a Page #our.TMX TARTANWEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 4, 192.
Grce Church
J..!........... - (Reformed)HAYARDarid PITHRIDQE STREETS FREDERICK C. NAU, Minister. 8ERVICE8:Sunday School-9:45 A. M.Morning Wornhlp11 Social hour and Luncficon for stu*dent, 15c, at 6 oclock.
/.Christian Endeavor7 P. M.
' .Popular Evening Service ut 7:45. 
.Bermon- for Head and Heart, 
cordial' welcome to all Student.
X BELLEFIELD PRE8BYTERIAN 5 
X CHURCH <
I Bollefleld and Fifth Avenues jj
/' Rov. Robert MacGowan, D. D.,< Minister.Yy Preaching Servlcoa 11 and I.
X, Sunday nchool at 10.Y Christian Endeavor at 7.
x Wo want the Tech boyn to at-tend our orvleon and Joarn to v know uii jlh the congregation of % "Friendly People" A hearty *9 welcome awaltH you. 1
Third United 
Presbyterian Church
DR. HUGH B. SPEER, Pastor 
Shady and Northumberland Avenues 
Graded Sunday School. 10:00 A. M. Preaching Service, 11:00 A. M. and 8:00 P. M.Young People Servicc, 7:00 P. M. Brief and Warm-Hearted Messages. A cordial welcome to all.
ASCENSION EPI8COPAL CHURCH Ellsworth Avenuo end Neville 8tre*t DR. WYATT BROWN, Rector DR. R088 R. CALVIN, Assistant. Sunday Sorvloeu, 8:00 . M., 11:00 A. M. and 8:00 P. M.College Men's Bible Claas at 10:00, led by Dr. Calvin.All 8tudenta Qonuln*ly Welcome.
ST. PAULS CATHEDRAL 
Fifth Ave. and Oraig St.Man sen: fl:80, 8:00, 0:00, 3(3:00 and11:00 A. M. on Sundays and Holy Days.Voapem on Sunday at 7:80 P. M. Pw 68. Middle Aliile, for Tech Stu denta.
If your fountain pen is in need of 
repairs, if you need a new, satisfactory 
pen or eversharp pencil, stationery, 
dance program, favor, special felt 
goods or Tech recognition pin, call 
at SINGER PEN & GIFT SHOP in 
Jenkin Arcade.Adv.
The Mellon National Bank is 
one of the moat thoroughly 
organized, utrongeat financial
institution in the country.
It i in a position to handle 
any account, large or email, 
with care and competency.
MELLON NATIONAL BANK
Pittsburgh, Pa.
BollBchonloy ABB
MISS OLEARY
(Formerly with J. M. T. Sbutnan) 
DRY GLEANINO REPAIRIN O 
Ladies and Mona Olotliei, OtirpoU
Work Guaranteed mid Turned Out on Short Notlco.
Will call for all proming and (loaning at Frat Houaon.
3033 FORBEB STREET (Oakland) 
PITTSBURGH, PA.
The Campus Anvil
THE PLACE WHERE
STUDENTS
TAKE THEIR SHOES
Bellefield 
Shoe Repairing Co.
Across from the Library
TECH BARBER SHOP
NEAREST TO TECH
it Cor. Craig and Forbes 9
a
FRED FARGEL, Proprietor.
Nearest and Best Laundry 
Agency.
Patronize The Tartan Advertisers.
Things You Seldom See.
The questions in a quiz you expect
ed.
A Profs chauffeur.
Two good-looking girls together. 
Pie5c per cut.
The point of a Prof's joke.
A dame fully dressed.
A and B's.* * *
Winter Sports.
Hunting for a door number on a 
dark night.* * *
Whats the Rush?
Whither away my pretty maid?"
I'm going to the devil, sir," she aid 
Then come to Design my pretty 
maid.
I'm in no such liurry, sir he aid.? ? *
The Two Kisses.
A mystery novel in three spools. 
Reel IIntroduction.
Off for hi work at the usual pace. 
Jones kissed his. wife whose name was 
Grace.
Goodness! he cried, such hair on 
your face.
Reel IIThe works are gummed.
A parlor dark. A gents embraces 
mack goes a kiss and madame 
Grace says,
Horace, my dear, how soft your 
face it.
Reel IIIAll's well, etc.
Humanitys tongue to scandal a 
slave, so dont look askance at the 
way they.behave.
For Horace Jones that noon had a 
shave.* * #
Setting the Stage.
Where do these flats all go 
Oh, Dave! A brace! Here! Quick! 
The back drop is hanging too low. 
Isnt that fly man thick?
Oh! Dave! A Brace! Here! Quick 
When does the thing begin?
Isnt that fly man thick?
Where in the deuce is a pin?
When does the d thing begin 
Move that piano up stage.
Where in the deuce is a pin 
Yes, Du Berry pink is the rage.
Move that piano up stage,
O. K. A1 give 'er the juice,
Yes, Du Berry pink is the rage 
That flat! Oh IIwhat is the use?'
O. It. A1 give 'er the juice,
Shake a leg with the ceiling 
That flat! Oh, IIwhat is the use 
Wonder how Ozzie is feeling?
The Power of Electricity 
in Transportation
Generator room of ono of the hydro-olcctric planta which supply power to the C. M. &St. P.
^ ------------........
Some Advantages of
Railroad Electrification
Snvinc the Nntionacoal
Lower maintenance eoat9.
Greater reliability and fewer delays, '
Ability ' heuvlei 
iipeeu,
Operation of electric locomo
tive unalTeetod by extreme cold.
Ability to bruit traina on deNcemlln H r mio a by retti min power to the trolley,
'C'LECTRICITY has leveled out 
the Continental Divide. The 
steam locomotive, marvelous as it is 
after a century of development, can- notmeetallof the presentdemandsfor 
transportation facilities. Its el-ctric 
rival has proved to be far superior.
On the mountain divisions cf the 
Chicago, Milwaukee & St. Paul 
Railwaythe worlds greatest elec
trificationgiant electric locomotives 
today lift an ever increasing freight 
tonnage over the mile-high Rockies 
and also make traveling clean and comfortable. They utilize the abun
dant energy of distant waterfalls and 
then, by returning some of this 
power to the trolley, snfoly brake tho 
trains on descending grades. And 
their capabilities are not Impaired 
by excessively cold weather when the steam engine i froxen and helpless.
Electricity is the power which 
drives the trains of New York City's 
subway and elevated systems. It 
operates the locks and tows the ships 
through the Panama Canal. It pro
pels the Navys latest super-dreadnaught, the New Mexico.- Electric 
mine locomotives have replaced the 
slow-moving mule and the electric 
automobile has also come to doan im
portant service. Such achievements 
were made possible by the extensive 
research and manufacturingactivities 
of the General Electric Company.
Electricity has become the universal motive power. It bus contributed 
efficiency and comfort to every form 
of transportation service and in this evolution General Electric apparatus 
has played a large part  from mighty electric locomotives to the tiny lump for the automobile.
Sight-Seeing.
Youth (enamoured) Good night, 
Miss Louise, may I see you tomorrow 
nightif you have nothing on?
She:How dare you?
(Cap and Bells).* * *
Lifes Mysteries.
The Pittsburgh auto busses.* * *
Epitaph.
Tread easy boys, here lies a Prof, 
No more he draws his breath,
He never pulled an ancient wheeze, 
And so was loved to death.* * *
Giddap Napoleon.
PlebeWhat's happened to Whoozis lately? Got the flu?
FroshNope, he was eating meat 
in the beanery the other day. Some 
one came in and yelled whoa! and 
he choked to death. (Copyright C. 
Columbus, 1492 B. P.)? * *
Our idea of the height of nerve is 
stopping a street car to use the step 
to tie your shoe-lace.* * *
College PresidentHow much sal
ary did you say you wanted?
ProfFifty dollars a week.
C. P.What do you think you are, 
a plumber?* * *
You know.
She gripped the wheel and they sped 
away,
Regardless of traffic laws,
And the reckless pace caused the car 
to  sway
But she couldnt fall out because
Judge.* * *
When the galloping dominos beckon 
and call,
Stoop to em easy; dont rush in and 
fall.
For African golf is not just what it 
seems
And unbalanced bones are more than 
mere dreams.
When the deck has been stripped to 
the nine-spots or more,
When the deuces run wild and when 
cash keeps the score,
If yourself and opponents you would 
not embroil 
Be sure that the game is according to 
Hoyle.
For theres many a man who will take 
it on word,
And for that selfsame reason, many 
a bird
Who missed on his draw or crapped 
out with expense 
Lost all his dollars to gain bits of 
sense.-aA CORRECTION.
W. W. Macalpine was elected presi
dent of the Photographic club, and 
not It. W. Macalpine as announced 
last week.
Heres 
to teeth, 
appetite, Ip
digestion! 
Mi
l'tuia D't.e fo Doubt* Stioicr Driven Pulley A3 Snafr Centers 7-0 
ZEggc C> C '-i fi.Ji.'., Cc7~,7
a Isa >*5 ss.'!J-,, tJmi
wh.
.-y P 
725 F. PM
| ?f;|
 Vtfrhc-;! Dr V.- ft t-:
foI -i .'wVDnven Policy J'
SKETCH SHOWINGGOODYEAR BELTS
ARRANGEMENT OF DR/VES,
FORT ATKINSON CANNING CO.
JEFFERSON, IAf/S.
I rt. Dne fo - if "camr*.*3  ///
Speed /730RPM . 
|^] O H P. ^ ^
C-ry iiy ri~^1 -3- .CtoC /J .y'''"!''
/"/* -'v? ro cVvj.w vi> 5k croc d / t/ ^r-i.-L. 
"VJ -ip.y C>\ae  / 4pff Khrigtifi-> l*6MC 'O C .G--C
-f 4p.y Ko'nnte
I''tt'caf Dn\- .v J-'-Jcfe-. P/corDni en pitKay /3 I -J' Sr-jfrs 9-6'
An Idea, Our Good Nameand the G. T. M.
General Office Sclienecrad); N.Y.anySales Offices in, all laige cities YUr(K
The problem of keeping abreast of the rapid 
advances that characterize both shop practice 
and factory equipment in these days of high 
pressure business and quality-quantity pro
duction is something that over-reaches the 
limits of one mans or one plants experience. 
Consequently, the progressive factory manager, 
the engineer, and the superintendent make 
constant study of the latest in ideas and facil
ities their chief concern.
The idea underlying the plan of the G.T. M. 
Goodyear Technical Manis to provide 
the right type of belt for every specific industrial 
use. It removes the important elements of 
power transmission and material conveying 
from the field of hit-and-miss operation, and 
puts them on a scientific basis.
The force of this idea appealed to the Fort 
Atkinson Canning Company when they were 
thinking about the belt equipment for the new 
plant at Jefferson, Wis. They had never used 
a Goodyear Beltthe belts they had in their 
parent plant were giving generally satisfactory 
service but they knew Goodyears reputation 
for quality, they knew the countrywide approval 
won by Goodyear Belts operating in other 
canneries, and they were impressed by the 
G. 1. ML s analysis of their requirements.
BELTING  PACKING
GOOD
So they specified 100% Goodyear equipment 
transmission belts, conveyor belts, steam 
hose and water hose. Types, widths and plies 
conform to the G. T. M.s recommendations 
Goodyear Glides for the light drives, whose 
small pulleys run at high speed; Goodyear 
Klingtite for general transmission duty; and 
Goodyear Klingtite on the mule," where 
severe belt punishment aptly names the drive. 
Where raw materials in transit deposit their 
belt-eating acids, Goodyear Conveyors offer 
qualities especially resistant to acid.
The unfailing performance of these Goodyear 
Belts substantiates the plant analysis method 
of applying belts to the specific service. Their 
freedom from belt troublesno slipping, no 
stretchingto an appreciable amount, which 
usually causes an interruption in production 
in order to cut out and take up the slack 
is their own best service assurance.
A special study of belt function in various in
dustries is set forth in the Goodyear Mechanical 
Goods Encyclopedia. Students and teachers of 
engineering will be furnished a copy on request 
by letter to the Mechanical Goods Department 
of the Goodyear Tire & Rubber Co., Akron, O.
HOSE-VALVES
