REMEMBER ! 
CARNEGIE PLAYS 
TOLEDO, SATURDAY
Y. W. C. A. MEETING 
IN ARTS THEATER 
AT 12:50 TODAY
VOL. XVIII. NO. 2CARNEGIE INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY. PITTSBURGH, PENNSYLVANIAWEDNESDAY, SEPTEMBER 26, 1923
MUST ENROLL 
IN R. 0. T. C. BY 
SEPTEMBER 29
CALL ISSUED FOR FIRST
PEP MEETING OF YEAR TO 
BE HELD TOMORROW EVE
Colonel Cunningham Again 
in ChargeMany Students 
Expected to Choose R. O. 
T. C. in Preference to P. T.
PERSONNEL CHANGES
The first pep meeting of the year 
| will be held on Woodlawn St. in front 
i of the Field House tomorrow after; noon at 4:45 p. m. All students are 
I expected to attend this pep meeting 
! which is mainly intended to give the 
; plebes and new students a taste of 
i real Carnegie Spirit.
, Undoubtedly the Sophomores will 
see that the Plebes are there. The 
| others are expected to have enough 
| spirit to be there. The yells and
 songs will be reviewed so that the 
j Toledo team will know with whom 
j it is playing.
ARTS DIRECTOR 
AND FACULTY 
RECEIVE PLEBES
BUSINESS, ATHLETIC AND
EDITORIAL DEPARTMENTS 
NEED MEN FOR TARTAN
Different Departments Give 
Stunts in TheatreDancing 
Until 11:30 to Music Sup
plied By Tartans
Colonel T. H. Cunningham will be 
the professor of Military Science and 
Tactics for the coming year. So far 
the enrollment in the R. O. T. C. is 
approximately 145. Students have un
til September 29 to elect R. O T. C. or 
Physical Training but it is believed 
that this will not materially change 
the figures that now actually exist.
The teaching staff will be very dif
ferent this year from what it was 
last. Captain John S. Bragdon, Corps 
of Engineers, who, with Lieut. R. E. 
Cruse, Corps of Engineers, did the in
structing for the Engineer Unit, have 
both been relieved. Captain Brag
don was ordered to West Point as in
structor in Engineering at the Mili
tary Academy and Lieut. Cruse will 
go to Jacksonville, Florida, on River 
and Harbor work. Captain H. C. Ly
ons, who was a student at the Engi
neer School, Camp Humphreys, Va., 
last year is at. Carnegie Tech to re
lieve Captain Bragdon. Lieut. Newell 
L. Hemenway, now in the Philippines, 
is under orders to proceed to the 
United States and to Carnegie Tech 
for duty as Captain Lyons assistant. 
Major Philip Gordon was relieved last 
year and is at Fort Leavenworth at
tending the officers school at that 
place. He has been relieved by Cap
tain T. C. Knight who will be the in
structor for the Motor Transport Unit. 
Captain Clyde L. Walker, Signal 
Corps, who has been the Signal Corps 
instructor, has been relieved by Lieut. 
John M. Heath, who is now at Mass
achusetts Institute of Technology, 
Boston, Mass. Lieut. Heath is ex
pected within ten days. Captain Wal
ker will probably be at Carnegie Tech 
until the latter part of November. The 
other instructors will be the same as 
last year. J
Allit. o: T. tf'stu^enFs^wIio attend
ee! the summer camps and who have 
been questioned concerning them have 
invariably said they had a most de
lightful time. They worked hard, but 
at the same time enjoyed it. The Mo, tor Transport Camp students had two 
trips in convoy. One from Camp Holabird to the vicinity of New York 
City, and the other from Camp Hola* 
bird to New Cumberland, Pa.
Dr. Baker Securing 
Prominent Speakers
Men Being Scheduled Now 
For Coming Assemblies
Prominent European men of affairs, 
as well as distinguished American 
authorities will be included in the pro
gram of public lectures for the pres
ent year at Carnegie Tech says an an
nouncement. According to the re
port President Thomas S. Bakers pol
icy of inviting internationally-known 
leaders of science and letters for lec
tures will be largely extended to cov
er the program for this year.
Of outstanding interest in the an
nouncement is the name of Dr. Nils 
Bohr, of the University of Copen
hagen, and the winner of the Nobel 
Prize in Physics for 1922, who will lec
ture at Carnegie Tech some time in 
the latter part of November. Other 
speakers already engaged include Dex
ter S. Kimball, Dean of the College of 
Engineering at Cornell University, for 
October 23, 24, and 25, Dr. John Erskine, Professor of English at Colum
bia University, for November 19, 20, 
and 21; and Professor Alfred Stansfield, of the Department of Metallur
gical Engineering at McGill Univer
sity, Montreal, Canada, who will lec
ture during the period between Jan
uary 14 and 19, 1924.
CHANGES MADE IN 
FRESHMAN RULES
Student Council Adopts PlanEqual Attendance at 
Science and Ind.
' Through the efforts of the New Stu
dent Council, numerous changes are 
to be made governing the entire 
Freshman body for the coming year. 
The old system did not link the dif
ferent schools together, and it is with 
this view in mind that the new plans 
have been formulated.
The Freshmen from Science and In
dustries will constitute one group, one 
half of which will report to the Indus
tries assembly for the first semester, 
and the other half will report to the 
Science Assembly. At the beginning 
of the second semester these groups 
will interchange; those having gone 
to the Industries Assembly wlll now 
report to Science for the remainder 
of the year and those that attended 
Science will now report to Industries.
A standard system of trials will be 
in force at both schools; all conducted 
alike. Punishments will vary accord
ing to the gravity of the offense and 
th eattitude of the culprit at the time 
of judgment. The reward of a Maggie 
Murplis smile may be well worth 
what will come later at the trials. 
Who knows?
A complete record of each Plebe 
will be kept and these records will 
be transferred when the different 
groups change assemblies..
The governing bdara will consist of 
Sam Dyke, chairman, a Senior from 
each of the three mens schools and 
two Seniors from Margaret' Morrison 
and Arts. These Seniors are in com
plete charge of Plebe Regulations in 
their respective schools.
When all the plans have been put 
into effect, it is hoped that they will 
further the good fellowship between 
incoming classes.
SEASON OPENS AT RITTENHOUSE
The dances which are conducted for 
the school, set at the Rittenhouse on 
Saturdays and holidays during the 
winter will resume next Saturday, 
September 29.
The celebrated Collegiate Six of 
Carnegie Tech have been engaged to 
furnish the music.
,DANCES TO BE HELD 
AFTER HOME GAMES
Musical Clubs Try-Outs 
At Next Sunday Meeting
An urgent call to Freshmen and 
upper-classmen to rally to the support 
of the Carnegie Musical Clubs when 
they start work on their 1923-24 sea
son is being issued.
The past several years have seen 
the development of an organization 
that is holding an enviable position 
among the best college musical clubs 
in the country. Concerts have been 
given in many cities in Ohio, Western 
Pennsylvania, and New York. These 
trips give some mighty fine experi
ences and memories for one to look 
back on as high spots in college life.
The directors will be ready to start 
what promises to be the biggest sea
son yet enjoyed on Sunday, Septem
ber 30, at 2:30- p. m.
Glee Club aspirants are to meet in 
the Exhibition Hall of the Fine Arts 
Building, and those who play musical 
instruments are to meet in the Union.
Let every Freshman and upperclass
man who has any ability in a musical 
way come out and join this fine Car
negie Tech activity and keep our Alma 
(Continued On Page Four.)
Look on the football schedule and 
note every game that is being played 
by the Plaid in Pittsburgh, either on 
the home grounds or at Forbes Field. 
Look over your list of addresses and 
dormitory telephone numbers and call 
up some lucky girl now and make 
dates for the nights of the day men
tioned above. There is a reason 
football dances!
Yeh, there will be a dance every 
night there is a football game in the 
Smoky City. The Union will be the 
scene of the said struggles, and the 
very best people will attend, with the 
possible exception of a few who have 
not yet returned from their European 
jaunts.
Orchestras? Yes, the management 
guarantees a high class musical en
tertainment at each and every dance. 
The first of. the series of dances is 
this Saturday night, at which the Tar
tan Entertainers will play. The Col
legiate Six will also perform at sev
eral of these functions.-
Special entertainment has been ar
ranged for some of the affairs. Some
body that has dark curly hair, and 
plays on the football team, and is a 
Dramat, and sings divinely, and has 
for initials the mystic letters O. B., is 
going to sing at one of the fracases. 
We wont tell you who he is, because 
we want it to be a surprise.
The price of admission will stand 
at $1.25. Everything else will be ab
solutely free. Remember, for the 
dates, refer to your football schedule; 
the rest is up to you.
EPISCOPALIANS WILL HOLD
FIRST MEETING OF YEAR
Carnegie students affiliated with 
the Episcopal Church are invited and 
urged to attend the first get-together 
supper of the year on Sunday even
ing, September 30th. The club is 
made up of both Pitt and Tech men 
and women, Miss Mary Heilig of M. 
M. being president of the Carnegie 
division. Supper will be served at six 
in the Church of Ascension, Ellsworth 
and Neville avenues.
200 STUDENTS ATTEND
The directors and faculty of the 
College of Fine Arts held a recep
tion last Friday for the Freshmen of 
Design School. The faculty and stu
dents intermingled and the reception 
was much less formal than in previ
ous years when there was a receiv
ing line.
Three short acts were given in the 
Little'Theater by the Plebes. The 
music students had a big clef with 
notes made of holes in the sheet of 
canvas through which the boys and 
girls stuck their heads and sang. Sev
eral solos were then given by music 
students and a Salome dance was 
well executed by a fellow. The 
whole act was very well done and 
appreciated by the audience. The 
Applied Art and Painting and Illus
trating Plebes operated on one of 
their number behind a screen, their 
actions appearing on the screen, in 
silhouette. The victim was held 
down on the table while he was cut 
up with axe, knife and scalpel. * The 
(Continued on Page Four.)
The editorial, business, and athletic 
departments of the Carnegie Tartan 
are in need of men. preferably from 
the Sophomore and Freshman classes, 
for work on the paper. Those men 
who begin the work early in their col
lege career have an opportunity of se
curing one of the higher positions on 
the staff which carry with them mone
tary remuneration for good work on 
the paper.
All who are interested in work in 
any of the departments of the Tartan 
should call at the office, Room 5A In
dustries, opposite Industries Club, 
Room, any school day from 12:30 to 1:20.
The above call applies to girls in 
the Arts and Margaret Morrison Car
negie Colleges, as Avell as to men in 
all four schools. Besides experience 
in newspaper work and the opportun
ity of becoming better acquainted 
with people and events on the campus, 
the girls who take iip the work could 
aid their respective colleges by fur
nishing authentic and timely news of 
the activities in their division.
Y.W.C.A. HOLD FIRST 
REGULAR MEETING
Program Will Consist of Four 
Short Talks on Topics 
Concerning' Girls
Local Students Win 
Honor Scholarships
31 Prep Graduates Winners 
of Annual Contest
Among the new Freshmen students 
enrolled at Carnegie Tech during the 
past week were 31 Pittsburghers each 
of whom Avas awarded a $100 scholar
ship as credit toward the general foe 
for the present year. The awards arc 
k,io*vn as, I be Pittsburgh Honor Schol
arships a limited number of which are 
offered annually to meritorious sen
iors in the Pittsburgh high a iliools on 
nomination fiom the school authori
ties.
While holders of the Honor Scholar
ships are automatically eligible for 
re-appoin meats to them in each of 
their four yea.s study, a feature in 
this connection is the stipulation that 
high scholarship must be maintained. 
This makes it possible for uny Pitts
burgh student winning the honor in 
(Continued on rago Two.)
The dress, spirit, manners, and 
honor of tho college girl will bo dis
cussed by Carnegie girls at the first 
regular meeting of tho Y. W. C. A. in 
the Arts Theater at 12:50 today. This 
meeting is important and tho time 
should suit all the girls, Freshmen 
will be allowed to lutve lunch early so 
that they also may attend.
The program will consist of four 
short talks on topics of general inter
est to girls today. Grace Sheriff will 
discuss "A College Girls Dress; 
Helig, "A Collego Girls Spirit; Helen
B. Johnson, A College Girl's Man
ners; Blair .Tossop, "A College Girls 
Honor. This meeting of tho Y. W. C.
A. presents a splendid opportunity for 
the Freshmen to loarn something 
about the collego girl at Carneglp.
The Y. W. C. A. has just complotod 
an jipufl.uajly, pffe&Ujto drive fov new 
members. Over two hundred fifty 
girls are now enrolled, two hundred 
being secured during the campaign 
which lasted during tho four days of 
registration. The Y. W. O. A. cabinot 
had charge of tho campaign.
Y.M.C.A. HOLDS ANNUAL 
COUNSELLORS DINNER
Graphica to Welcome New 
Men at Banquet Thursday
The new students of the Printing 
Department will be welcomed at the 
annual welcome banquet of the Graph
ica Thursday night, September 27 at 
the Chatham. Speeches of welcome 
and explanations of the activities of 
the club will feature the first printers 
event of the year.
The welcome bnquet of the Graph
ica has become an annual event in 
which all new printers are enter
tained by the older students. All the 
instructors and many of the alumni 
expect to be present tomorrow night.
A new instructor, Mr. Wm. E. Bar
clay, has been secured to fill the va
cancy left by W. E. Thacker, who dis-- 
continued his work here during the 
second semester last year. Mr. Bar
clay will teach hand composition.
The Graficker, the Printing De
partment weekly publication is to be 
published again this year. It is to ap
pear in the same siz and with the 
same humorous contents as when last 
published. It was dropped as a de
partment activity during the early 
part of last year.
Tho Carnegie Toch Y. M. C. A. has 
achieved another succoss by tho man
ner In which they conducted their din
ner for the Senior Counsellors and 
Freshmen.
This dinner was staged with even* 
moro success than thoso of tho last 
few years and tho Freshmen woro 
made to feel that they were not mis
fits in our school as tho Sophomore 
vigilantes had already led them to 
believe.
The dinner was attended by one 
hundred Senior advisors and five hun
dred plebes, each advisor taking 
charge of five plebes.
Toastmaster of the occasion was 
Mr. H. IC. Kirkpatrick, whoso ability 
to serve in this position wiped away 
some of the serious atmosphere sur
rounding the Freshmen.
Dr. Baker extended a whole hearted 
welome to the new men which was 
seconded in a pleasing manner by 
Dean Tarbell.
Coach Steffen made one of his usual 
interesting and appealing speeches, 
Prof. Dibble outlined the Freshman 
work for the year, and Tommy Griggs 
extended a welcome from the Student 
Council.
The Y functions in other ways in 
helping the Freshmen get acquainted.
Plebe Bibles were sent to the enter
ing Freshies. Discussion groups are 
(Continued on Page Three.)
BUFFALO PLAY 
OPENS SEASON 
FOR DRAMATS
Carnegie Tech School of 
Drama Selected to Put On 
Buffalo Community Play
BUDDY 0VEREND IS APPOINTED 
GRADUATE MANAGER TO GUIDE 
CARNEGIES ATHLETIC POLICY
TITLED "ADVENTURE
The Drama Department season be
gins this year away from the home 
theater. The first production, Ad
venture, a Pagoant-drama, is to be 
given at the Allendale Theater, Buf
falo, New York, on October first and 
second. Forty-five Carnegie people 
are to make the trip, including most 
of the faculty and upper classmen of 
the Drama Department, as tho guests 
of the National Safety Council.
Professor Stovens had been engaged 
to write the play, a study of tempera
ment and character in relation to 
chance, and all arrangements had 
been made for its being put on by a 
community theater group in Buffalo, 
for tho annual convention of the Na
tional Safety Council. Early in Sep
tember it developed that the Buffalo 
company could not complete the pro
duction in time for tho Safety Con
gress, and the opportunity was offered 
to Carnegie and promptly accepted. 
Tho play Is in twonty-flve scones, 
staged in tho modern oxprossionistlc 
manner. It ifollows tho lives oi three 
young men, called (to make It quite 
(Continued On Pugo Four.)
Plumbing Department 
Publishes Research
Prof. S. E. Dibble Demon
strates to Govt Officials
A demonstration that may rosult in 
tho revolutionizing of building codos 
throughout tho country was given In 
Washington Monday and Tuesday, 
Soptombor 24 and 25 by S. S. Dibble, 
Hoad of tho Department of Heating, 
Vontilation and Sanitation of Carnogle 
Institute ol Technology. At tilt) in
quest of tho Hoover Cpminlttoo on 
Building Codes. Mr. Dlbblo demon
strated on those days, tho uso of bi
tuminous compound joints In uniting 
cast Iron with vitilfid clay pipo when 
used for sowago disposal.
Whilo tho use of comont joints In 
piping has boon In practice for many 
yoars, It Is said tho mothod has hover 
boon ontlroly satisfactory with tho re
sult that jointing has boon one of tho 
serious problems confronting tho 
(Continuod on Pago Throo.)
Carnegie to Resume Classes 
On Standard Time Monday
Daylight saving time for tho Plttsburgh district ends at two * oclock 
Sunday morning, September 30. At 
that tlmo clocks will bo turned back 
one hour and standard time wlll bocomo effective.
School clocks will bo retarded ono 
hour on Sunday, Septomber 30, to 
conform with tho change In time, and 
on Monday, October 1, all classes will 
be run on standard time.
NEW INSTRUCTOR IN
HOUSEHOLD ECONOMICS
DEPARTMENT OF M. M. C. C.
Miss Ethel Feldkirchner is a new 
instructor in Household Economics 
and comes to Tech from Stout Insti
tute, Wisconsin. In addition to her 
duties at Margaret Morrison she will 
be the chaperon at Mellon Annex. 
Miss Feldkirchner is a graduate of the 
University of Chicago and has had 
several years of interesting and suc
cessful teaching.
SCHOOL STARTS AT CARNEGIE
Popular Alumnus Chosen By Athletic 
Council-Succeeds the Late Frank 
H. Haaren-No Immediate Changes 
in Policy Are Contemplated
AL IRWIN TO REMAIN ASSISTANT
KILTIES WILL MAKE 
BOW ON SATURDAY
Band to Make ,Trips With 
Team to Games at Cleve- 4 
land and Detroit
Last week tho Athletic Council met 1 and deliberated as to who should bo1 the successor to the late Mr. Frank 
j Haaren as Graduate Manager of tho 
j Institute athletics. It Is to that bodys 
: everlasting credit that, the man upon 
| whom they conferred that olfice is 
| Clarence Buddy Overend. former
I student and erstwhile business man.
The Carnegie Toch Kiltie Band will 
in all probability make tho trip to De
troit with tho varsity football squad 
for tho gamo there on November 10, 
according to an announcement, made 
by Band Master Sullivan at tho or
ganization mooting held Thursday, 
September 20. This trip should pro
vide sufficient Incentive for all tho 
band candidates to work hard and 
faithfully in order that tho Carnogio 
Kiltios may loavo a lasting and favor
able improsslon upon tho minds or tho 
Dotroitors when they appear, thoro 
with tho football squad.
Mr. J. L. Christian, mnnagor of tho I 
student band at tho University ofj 
Pittsburgh addressod tho gathering | 
and emphasized tho doslrabillty of 
moro co-operation between tho student bands of tho two schools, a hot,-1 
tor understanding of each others alms ' 
and accomplishments. Plans woro undor way for the two bands to appear 
together sonio tlmo during tho prosout. school year, said Mr. Christian.
Many now mon woro proHont at tho 
mooting and signified their willingnoss to try out.for tho klltlo band. A 
largo number of eandldatos wlll pro
vide competition for placo which will 
further onhanco tho desirability of bocoming a woaror of kilts.
According to Band Master Sullivan 
and Manager Ruddy, tho Carnogle 
Teoli Band will experience tho biggest, 
and best season of Its oaroor during 
tho coming school year. Besides the 
Detroit trip, the Kilties wlll make 
thoir annual pilgrimage to Little 
Washington on October 20. Local 
concerts, appearance at tho Toledo, 
Tholl, Pitt, Lehigh, and Notre Damo 
games hero, aro other features of tho 
band schodulo for tho early part 01' 
tho soason.
Undor Sullivan's roglmo our band 
has boepmo bigger and hotter each 
sucoodlng year, and If pro-sonnon dope 
runs true to form tho present year 
should ho no exception.
DETAILS OL NEW GIRLS 
DORMS SHAPING WELL
With tho completion of alterations 
on tho newly purchased homos on 
Forbes street, Carnoglo will havo a 
surplus of dormitory rooms for girls 
for the first time in several years. The 
work on the new dorms is being 
rushed to completion under the super
vision of Mr. Orbin, the Business Man
ager, and it is expected that all tho 
work will be finished within a short 
time.
The Woodlawn dorms, this year, are 
being used exclusively for Plebes, up
perclassmen occupying Mellon, Forbes 
and the new homes. A few other 
changes in the management have been 
made. The dining room at Mellon 
has been enlarged by the conversion 
of an additional room into a dining 
room to take care of the girls in 5080 
and 5090 Forbes. 5141 Woodlawn wlll 
be used as an infirmary under the su
pervision of Mrs. Kirkpatrick.
Forbes Hall will again be chap
eroned by Mrs. Frances P. Weaver 
with Grace Moore as house president. 
Miss Frances King will arrive October 
first to take charge of Mellon Hall 
(Continued on Page Three.)
GRADUATE MANAGER OVEREND
Mr. Ovorond has boon Interested In 
tho school's athlotlcs almost since its 
founding. Ho was born and raised In 
Pittsburgh, and prepared for collogo 
In the Boilofiold schools and Shadyside Academy. Ho entered Carnogio 
In tho class of ;ll)08, of which ho was 
vice prosidont. Politics was not i.iio ' 
only activity that Mr. Ovorond en
gaged In Avhllo a student. Ho wns 
captain of tho school's lirst team, 
which was a hookey aggregation, aud 
was president of Carnogie's first, ath
letic association,
When tho present athlotlc council 
was organized In 11)20, Mr. Ovorond 
was made a member, and was later 
(Continuod On Pago Four.)
Sophs Victorious in 
Inter Class Contests
Regulations to be Enforced By 
Conscientious Sophomores
The annual show of rivalry between 
the Sophomore and Freshman classos 
reached tho climax last Tuesday after
noon, when tho Inter-class contosts 
wore hold.
Owing lo tho "cool roceptlon given 
tho dormitory Plebes the preceding 
night, the S'ophomores found that they 
had a vory determined and well-organlzed group of Individuals to con
tend with. That this was true Is evi
denced by the fact that the Sopho
mores won by the narrow margin oC 
one point.
The tug-of-war or rope-pulling con
test, the first event was won by tho 
Freshmen on a slight technicality. 
It seems that there was either a mis
count or a misunderstanding some
where within the Sophomore ranks, 
for there werewell say, several 
more Sophomores than were allowed. 
It Is also whispered that one of the 
so-called Sophomores had been firmly 
planted In the ground by the Bell 
: Telephone Company.
, Honors were pretty evenly divided
l in boxing and wrestling contests with 
the Sophomores maintaining a slight 
; edge. Some color .was added to one
i bout by a Sophomore who Insisted 
(Continuod On Page Four.)
Injun Tries to Bury Hatchet
Spectators Try to Snatch It
(By Don Gardner.)
(Vocabulary Ltd.)
Bulletin. Last night on tho peace
ful banks of Sklbo a gang of maraud-1 
ing Greeks nearly broke up an Indian 
peace ceremony. But for Jibe iactj 
that the ceremony was over when j 
tho heinous outrage took placo an 
appeal should certainly havo boon 
sent to Big Chief Pfouts for a now; 
axe to bury.
Yes, gentle readors, tho latest In
ternational complications woro plan-! 
ned, executed and completed right | 
hore In our own back yard before a 
plebe co-ed could murmur Jimmy 
Robertson." Bear with mo an instant. 
and I shall tell you tho ghastly and 
harrowing details.
Picture the romantic setting. The! 
Carnegie Stadium bathed softly in a 
cold drizzly raid. Every seat crowd
ed to capacity with eager spectators.
On the field an Indian P. T., I mean 
tepee. Gathered around it a flock, 
herd, or bevy of 'Ingenue Injuns. In 
tho background a stage director vain
ly trying to keep thom from throw
ing tho sacred corn on tho fire. On 
tho loft a tribe of Anzacs or Toma
hawks, Im not sure which. Tn the 
background a pleco of Invisible at
mosphere who discharges a toy cap 
pistol at Intervals to croato the hallu
cination of an entire trlbo discharg
ing their trusty bows and arrows, 
and th*) entire magnificent spectacle 
Is covored by a blanket of darkness 
which nobly covers tho lack of 
blankets among the Indian braves.
Suddenly the trlbo from the left 
approaches. The leader sneezes in 
the face of the foreman of the gang 
in the center and gives him the grip.
What, says the latter, "would you 
care to have?
(Continued on Page Three.)

---------------------------------------------------

PAGE TWOTHE CARNEGIE TARTANWEDNESDAY, SEPTEMBER 26, 1923
^arnEgis Haftan
Published every week by undergraduates of the Carnegie Institute of 
Technology under the supervision of the Student Council. _______________
Entered In the Postofllce of l^ttaburgh a second-class matter.____________
H. F. SIMPSON ............................................................................................. Editor-In-Chief
Telephone Schcnley 0148
W. CUNNINGHAM .............................................................................. Business Manager
Telephone Schcnley 9211
KENNETH ARNOLD ............................................................................ Managing Editor
Telephone Schenley 9189
FRED C. SMITH........................................................................Assistant Managing Editor
FRED T. PHELPS....................................................................Assistant Managing Editor
SAHA MAE EVERETT ...............................................................................Associate Editor
Telephone Schenley 9079
MARK S. DOWNES ................................................................................. Associate Editor
I-I. H. WILSON ............................................................................................ Associate Editor
W. WINNING ........................................................................................................ Nows Editor
Tolophone Schenley 9070
F. D. ROSSINI ....................................................................................................... News Editor
Telephone Schenley 9070
A. S. ANDREWS .................................................................................................. News Editor
Telephone Schenley 9211
E. C. FRAZIER .............................................................................................. Athletic Editor
Telephone Schenley 9143
It. W. SLEATII ................................................................................................ Photographer
W. K. JEFFREY ....................................................................................... Exchange Editor
E. P. COUSE, JR........................................................................................................ Art Editor
DON GARDNER ............................................................................................ Special Writer
T. J. DEMPSEY................................................................................. Circulation Manager
B. BIIOUDY ....................................................................... Assistant Business Manager
W. H. GIBSON....................!.................................................Assistant Business Manager
EDITORIAL ASSISTANTS
Estelle Garibaldi, Elizabeth Gordon, L. D. Richards, J. A. Dougherty, B. 
DoMurc, E. G. Elglo, A. E. Krogh, I. H. Isaacs, it. G. Kennedy, L. II. Harris, 
II. F. Reiter, J. W. .lones, K. Fulmer, M. D. Kalfelz.
 ATHLETIC CONTRIBUTORS
G. E. Jacoby, .1. Christoff, H. P. Rossbaclc,
BUSINESS ASSISTANTS
D. Moskovltz, J. W. Metro, 1'. W. Reilly, W. A. Jaeko, P. Edie, R. L. 
Sandrock.
The Editor-In-Chief Is responsible for the policy of this paper; the 
Managing Editor for the make up.
The Tartan welcomes all communications of student Interest, if signed. 
Signature will ho withheld if deslrod. All nows items must bo in the student 
postolllce before 4:30 Friday.
Tartan OllloeRoom 5-A, Industries Building. Oillce hoursTuesday, 
11:30 to 1:00, WednoBday, 12:00 to 1:00.___________________________________________
PEP MEETING AS A NEW TRADITION
Nothing is so good that it cannot bo improved upon by practice. 
Carnegie Tech cheering is, and always 1uik been, characterize! by lots 
oil pep and volume, but at times it lias been -woefully ragged. All the 
practice we get at cheering comes during the football, games, and at 
some general assemblies. And this is hardly sufficient. The entire 
student body should get together at least once a week l,o work up its 
cheering and try out new eiil!ects.
Jn addition to this, there should be pep meetings to work up 
enthusiasm. There nothing like a good pep meeting, with snake 
parades, and bon lires to get the enthusiasm up 'to fever heat. And 
with this spirit behind it, a team is mighty hard to beat.
What were working up to is this: There should be a big meet
ing in the Carnegie bowl before every football game, no matter how 
unimportant it may be. It will serve to encourage the team, improve 
our cheering, advertise the school, and keep that Carnegie Spirit in 
the proverbial pink.
These meetings could be held .Friday evenings from about seven 
to eight. Fellows with dates could bring their dates with them, or 
go to see them after the meeting.
It would mean little trouble to anyone. The meeting would, of 
course, be in charge of the head cheerleader, who would see to it that 
the team and the coaches were present. There would not need to be 
any foniml speeches. A Few remarks by the coaches and the team 
members would servo to start oil! with, and the cheering practice 
could be worked in.
Its up to those mentioned to get busy. The season starts next 
(Saturday with Toledo,, and it must lie a, successful, season. Let's do 
our part to make it sol
DR. HAMERSCJHLAGS GREETING TO CARNEGIE STUDENTS
September 18, 1928,
Dr. Thomas S. Raker, President,
Carnegie Institute oil1 Technology,
.Pittsburgh, Pa.
My dear Dr. Baker:
,Iusli a. line or two to wish you and the Carnegie Institute of 
Technology a successful year.
If you are to have a. stiulenl. and faculty assemblage, I wan I; to 
extend my best wishes to my former assoeial.es and to let them know 
that my heart is with them nlwn.ys,
Will you convey to the students, particularly the Freshmen, I his 
message? I read the gist of it in a New Iflngland paper. We do our 
best work under difficulties, the same as an army puts up its best 
.light when trapped end driven into a, corner. Heroic deeds, really 
big accomplishments, are won in the face of desperate odds such as 
a handful, of men holding a position until help arrives.
It is a. good thing to keep in mind that when our obstacles seem 
beyond our powers to handle them, they act as a spur to bring out 
our strength and assist in our individual development.
Though. I may not be present in person, my thoughts and spirit 
are with you all for the coming year.
Very sincerely yours,
ARTHUR A. IIAMERSC11 LAG.
DORMS HAVE OPEN 
HOUSE FOR PLEBES
STUDENT CALENDAR^
WEDNESDAY, THURSDAY, FRIDAY, SEPTEMBER 26, 27, 28
Night School Registration...................7 to 10 P. M.Central Building
THURSDAY, SEPTEMBER 27
Pop Meeting......................................................4:45 P. M.'Field House
SATURDAY, SEPTEMBER 29
FootballCarnegie vs. Toledo..................3:00 P. M.Carnegie Bowl
SATURDAY, OCTOBER, (i 
FootballCarnegie vs. Thiel.....................3:00 P. M.Carnegie Bowl
Men Entertained By Women 
at Tea on Sunday 
Afternoon
MATRON OF DORMS 
GREETS NEW MENFOR THE GOOD OF CARNEGIE TECH
The girls ut Forbes and Mellon 
Ilall were hostesses at the annual in
formal reception for the Freshmen. 
The Freshmen girls of the other dor
mitories were divided, half of them 
going to Forbes Hall and the other 
half to Mellon Hall. The Senior 
counsellors brought the Freshmen 
boys to visit both houses.
It was observed that the object, of 
this annual reception, which is to in
troduce the Freshmen of the differ
ent schools to each other, was suc
cessfully accomplished a number of 
times. At first the atmosphere was a 
trifle chilly despite the most tactful 
efforts of the upper classmen, but 
gradually conversation became freer 
and the stiff formality disappeared.
Late in the afternoon a little Plebe 
was, heard to suy that she thought her 
classmates wore the best looking men 
she had ever seen and she just knew 
she was going to like Tech. ?Some of 
the boys visited only one house. They 
were so pleased with their reception 
and found such congenial company 
that they elected to spend the whole 
afternoon in one place. A Senior 
counsellor, whose bent girl was at 
Mellon Ilall, was seen trying to per
suade his Freshmen not to stay too 
long at Forbes. He finally compro
mised by taking two of his Freshmen 
to Mellon Hall, allowing three of them 
to Remain at Forbes.
Beauty Campaign
Gains Popularity
Hundreds Eagerly Await 
Hints About Form
LOCAL STUDENTS WIN
HONOR SCHOLARSHIPS
(Continued From Page One) 
his froslnnan yenr to win, during >.\ 
four-years course, scholarships total
ing S400 in value, providing the schol
astic standards are met each year.
According to an announcement from 
Prosldent Thomas S. Baker, the fal
lowing local residents have recalved 
the awards for tlvdlr first yoar: Raymond C. Bamll, 7031 Susquehanna 
street; Helen Dlshlo, 1585 Rockland 
avenue; Dorothy Oohen, S43 North 
Sheridan avenue; John A. Conway, 
Mill) Fifth venue; Thomas A. WlUlns, 
Si48 I'M fill avenue: Margaret <\ Karinorl, 207 South Evullno streot; liar 
old Forgostoln, 7-101 Tioga streot; 
Margaret .1. Oallaghor, 17:1(1 Sylvan 
street; Elizabeth V. llayos, 5(517 Rural 
avenue; Annabelle Hoskins, 030 Bellelonte street; Mary P. Hull, 88 Oloster 
street'; Louise .1. Kemena, 7115 Mont'.- 
cello street; Miriam H. KIrkel, 15104 
Belasco avenue; Jewel Knott, 7 
Chauncey street; Margaret O. Mc
Cann, S-12 Columbus avenue; Allan V. 
Nern, 4925 Baum boulevard; Marga
ret P. Nuttall, 5452 Wilkins avenue; 
Clarence E. Peck, 1585 Tolma avenue, 
Dormout; Ella Ii. Scanlbn, 415 South 
Rebeca street; John K. Slioub, Jr., 
Perrysville and West View avenues; 
Robert H. Snyder, 5501 Beacon street; 
Margaret C. Sprenlcle, 112 Birming
ham avenue; Paul C. Strauch, S25 
Clarissa street; Frank W. >Swails, 
7615 Baxter street; John A. Till, 633S
Phillips avenue; Gwendolyn Titley, 
2421 Perrysville avenue; Edward A. 
Tobias, 100 S'outh 19th street; Mary 
E. Tucker, 227 Renova street; Willard S. Vaughn, Hillman avenue; An
thony J. Veraldi; 2S01 Brighton road; 
and Harry J. Williams, 913 Tyndall 
street.
The second one of the Brief Beauty 
Talks is concerned chiefly with fig
ures. it is the duty of every girl to 
pay attention to more than her face. 
The mirror helps in tills, too, much 
the same way as it did in the facial 
judgment. It is a bit more personal 
perhaps, to discuss ones figure, but 
one does not have to discuss it with 
a mirror. Every girl-should have at 
least one year of mathematics. It is 
necessary .that she know how to han
dle figures easily, and accurately! 
Either algebra or geometry may be 
used to good advantage in this re
spect, for both require a certain 
amount oi juggling to get the figures 
straight. In this day and age, figures 
must be. straight, and with the aid of 
the slide rule, log books and dally 
dozens, this may bo accomplished 
without much work.
The matter of draping the figure is 
one of utmost Importance, but, Inas
much as the Tartan is not a place to 
publish such information that matter 
will bo left to Puppet, wherein, at 
the next Issue, If is hoped one can 
road to his and, her satisfaction, an 
article on the subject of draperies, un
der the caption of What the WellDrossod Woman Will Not Wear. 
Provided the editorial board does not 
put Its editorial foot on the script, 
that article will be forthcoming.
Now, girls, to come to a. point on 
the matter, Isnt It worth your while 
to spend ten minutes a day thinking 
about your figure? Is your face the 
only thing ypu have to waste time 
fooling over, In order that you may 
appear In public with self-satisfaction, 
and with satisfaction to others? No! 
Tn the Atlantic City Pageant this 
year, prizes wore offered for the girl 
who appeared to bo tho prettiest In 
evening dress. A second part of the 
contest was devoted to picking the 
prettiest girl in the Mummers' Pa
rade, of in Hosts. Tho third and last 
division was the Bathing Revue. If a 
girl had paid suilicleht attention to 
herself, she would have won all throe, 
for a pretty face, and a pretty figure, 
as well as a pretty personality was 
the combination which was demanded 
to win all three. But, no girl had all 
three!. There is the point! It is up 
to the Carnegie Tech girls to set the 
example for the other colleges, and 
the other girls in our domain. Car
negie girls should not be merely 
faced dolls, nor yet reproductions of 
the Venus de Milo, but they should be 
both, and besides, they should have 
something to go with these two, a 
personality.
Think it over! Try your hand at 
figures, girls, and see if you cant 
keep things in better shape;
ARE YOU BEAUTIFUL?
Beta Theta Pi Winner of 
Inter-Fraternity Trophy
The I orai' fraternity Scholarship 
Trophy, awarded by Doan Tarbell at 
the Gnral Assembly on September 
18 was won by Beta Theta PI for 
1922-23, computations covering 48.1 
men In 17 fraternities. The scholastic 
standing of all the fraternities for 
,1922*23 follows:
Bota Theta PI ................................ 138.40
Delta XI ................................................114.01
Delta Mu ........................................... 113.40
lota Sigma Delta........................... 110.33
Delta Pill Delta ............................ 101.09
Woodlawn Club ............................. 90.03
Pi Kappa tAlpha ............................. 82.30
Delta Upsilon .................................. 7G.0S
Sigma Epsilon Phi ...................... 74.38
Kappa Sigma ................................. 07.30
Delta Tau Delta............................. 63.S5
Sigma Alpha Epsilon ................ 03.81
Theta Xi ........................................... 59.0S
Beta Sigma Rho ........................... 50.11
Acacia ................................................. 49.44
Sigma Nu ........................................ 3S.91
Kappa Sigma Rho......................... 1.73
CHAPEL SPEAKER WILL 
BE THE REVEREND KERR
According to an announcement 
from President Thomas S. Baker, the 
voluntary chapel plan, under which 
chapel exercises are held once a week 
for students, will again be in opera
tion during the coming year at Car
negie Tech. The Inauguration of the 
chapel servlcos last year met with so 
much success and appreciation from 
tho studonts, according to Dr, Baker, 
that tho continuation of tho plan be
came almost a demand from tho stu
dents.
Although nttondanco at. the sorvlces 
is voluntary, a large average of stu
dent attendance was maintained 
throughout tho yoar. The plan of 
having as spealcora the representa
tives of all denominations of the Pro
testant, Catholic and Hebrew faiths, 
is considered to bo largely responsible 
for the interest maintained by the stu
dents in tho chapel program.
The first, weekly service during tho 
ensuing year will be hold on Thurs
day, October 4. at 12:50 p. m. with 
Rev. Hugh T. Kerr, D.D.. pastor of the 
Shadyside Presbyterian Church as the 
speaker. A large number of Pitts
burgh clergymen have already accept
ed invitations from Dr. Baker to speak 
at other services during the school 
terms. v
(By Hal.) |ye Editor promteed us another. Miss E. Helm Welcomes All
chance, VO here we are. If you want . f
another encore youll have to come! Residents of Mens
stronger on the applause than that.
Wero not at all proud.Dormitories
Lets go, Plebes! You've got to I 
get used to the skirts sooner or later I 
so why not join the band? If you 
can play any kind of an instrument, 
sign up.
Two words, "courage and fight, J 
were the high points ln Wallys littla 
talk to the Plebes at the Y" din
ner. That is tho best solution of 
getting through Carnegie Tech, that 
we knw of.
Say, fellows, the next time youre 
walking across the Campus and have 
a scrap of paper or something you 
want, to throw away, dont just idly 
throw it down. Find the proper re
ceptacle for It. Take pride .in the 
Campus, Its yours.
That reminds us, the authorities 
might supply a few receptacles for 
waste paper, etc.
Well, we note the Sophs have the 
Plebes walking the chalk mark al
ready. Early -training makes an obe
dient child.
Were getting uneasy to hear the 
opening whistle of the first game on 
Saturday. The advance dope doesn't 
amount to much and we crave action, 
so we can judge for ourselves.
Heres a secret. Did you know that 
one of our football men plays a uke? 
We thought the latter- were sort of 
fragile.
With the kick off last week, we 
suppose everyone ran back the ball 
for, a good gain, or did the profs 
drop you in. your tracks for no gain? 
You better get started on the next 
play.
Lets have lots of pep on Saturday 
and demonstrate to the Judge that 
the old spirit is still rampant.
Registration of Night 
Students This Week
Inquiries Indicate a Record 
Night Attendance
All indications point to a record 
registration of night school students 
tills yeai*. Unofficial predictions, 
based upon the Inquiries received of 
tho school, are that the number of 
students will exceed two thousand. 
Tho usual courses will be offered with 
but few minor changes. Dr. R. M. 
Ilirlg, who is director of the night 
school feels confident that a very suc
cessful year is about to begin.
Tho night school of Carnegie is an 
integral part of the Institute, planned 
upon at its founding and continually 
kept in view by the officials of tho 
various colleges. Not only Is the 
night registration large, but the value 
of the courso offered is attosted by tho 
fact that frequently a letter Is re
ceived from employers directing that 
all foes for Mr. So and So, ho billed 
to thorn. If further proof wore neces
sary, I,ho tenacity with which somo 
men 'pursue their courses until a de
gree is finally awarded seems quite 
conclusive. Some moil have oven 
gono farther and, at loast ono man is 
now working for a doctors, degree.
Official announcement of tho  night 
school courses may bo had at the reg
istrars office. Registration for night 
school will take place in Langley Lab
oratory on the evenings of Wednes
day, Thursday, and Friday of this 
week.
Certainly!Every student needs a 
reliable Safety Fountain Pen and a 
Pencil. We sell and repair. Singer 
Pen and Gift Shop, Jenkins Arcade.
Some of the upperclassmen who 
have lived in the dorms in the past 
would have received a severe shock 
had they been among the lucky three 
hundred who went into the dorms tbis 
year.
Instead of spending half a day or 
night in looking for the porter or 
someone to show him to bis room, the 
newcomer, this year, found the ma
trons office with Miss Helm in charge 
open from early in the morning till 
late at night ready to receive him. 
Miss Helm endeavored to make them 
feel at home by personally meeting 
each one of the three hundred men 
and giving them something which has 
been entirely lacking in the dorms in 
the pasta touch of the home life. 
Miss Helm also met quite a few of 
the parents, and both parents and stu
dents appreciated the new spirit in 
the dorm life. 
Under a new system, porter service 
will be available to the men at all 
hours of the day or night. The new 
head porter, James Irwin will be on 
duty during the day and will be re
lieved by a part time student, Ralph 
Martin who will be on duty at night. 
Mr. Irwin has had a great deal of ex
perience in dealing with men and will 
undoubtedly become very popular 
with the dormites.
Miss Helm has not, as yet, made 
any definite plans for introducing 
changes in the dorm life but is hop
ing that the men will co-operate with 
her and come forward with their 
ideas of how to make the dorms more 
agreeable. She will occupy the Fac
ulty Suite in Boss Hall and is looking 
forward to a pleasant social life with 
the men during the winter.
Freshman! Are You Exempt 
From Plebe Regulations?
All Plebes having logical reasons 
and believing that they should be 
exempted from Plebe Regulations, 
should apply to the Senate of thenrespective schools. They should have 
a card from the school which they 
attended previous to attendance at 
Carnegie, Stating definitely their time 
of service under the regulations of 
their school.
Dont fail to apply if you want ex
emption.
PLEBE OUTLINES WAY 
TO GAIN TRUE SUCCESS
The ifollowing limericlc was sent in 
by a Freshninn, and because we think 
his remarks particularly apt, we are 
printing them for the benefit of 
other struggling Plebes.
Im always dismayed at forces ar
rayed against me when starting a 
course; but I find if I work and shun 
chances'to shirk and use every bit of 
my force that things slip along like 
the proverbial song, and Im never at
tacked with remorse. If I put heart 
and soul tinto work, then my bowl of 
success seems to fill, to the brim, I 
can meet all tho crowd, be they 
haughty or proud, with a smile on 
my face though Its grim; just make 
niy own way with none to say nay 
and stick to Hie pattern I trim. Now 1 like a small measure of sociable 
pleasure, or sports, but Ive got to 
mind this: if 1 let plo/yi or game in
terfere with my aim, my objective I 
surely will miss. Ive come here to 
college to gather up knowledge, and 
must not let -my plans go amiss. So 
ill work with a smile as long as a 
mile, and not let1 my lips become 
curled with corners turned down in 
dejected frown as though a bad 
knock Id been hurled; but in smiles 
I will soak, treat my work as a joke, 
and when through face the whole d 
world.
Whos Who on the Campus
Student Council.
PresidentT. N. Griggs.......................541S Baum BoulevardHazel 9422
Vice PresidentTeasdale Barney.........5549 Forbes StreetHazel 3320
SecretaryAdah Borgerdine.. .27 Dinsmore AvenueWalnut 0637-W 
TreasurerH. E. Dykemau....................024 Clyde StreetSchenley 9401
Presidents of School Assemblies.
ArtsTeasdale Barney............................5549 Forbes StreetHazel 3320
IndustriesFrank Gore............................030 Clyde StreetSchenley 91S9
Margaret MorrisonBlair Jessop...........4321 Saline StreetHazel 274S
ScienceW. H. Ryan.....................5017 Forbes StreetSchenley 9143
Senior Class Presidents.
ArtsJ. D. Mawhinney. ...........................5549 Forbes StreetHazel 3320
IndustriesS. E. Djrlce.............................034 Clyde StreetSchenley 9401
Margaret MorrisonFrances McClymonds. .502 Hay St.Franklin 0302 
ScienceC. N. Hollinsworth.... -1921 Forbes StreetSchenley 0059
Junior Class Presidents.
ArtsO. B. Newman...........................4915 Forbes StreetSchenley 9211
IndustriesA. S. Andrews.................4915 Forbes StreetSchenley 9211
Margaret MorrisonMary Speers..........341S ParkviewSchenley 1742
ScienceMilo Matter.........................4921 Forbes StreetSchenley 0059
Sophomore Class Presidents.
ArtsMyron Goodwin...........................5224 Liberty AvenueHiland 0S5S
IndustriesD, V. Boodo...........................024 Clyde StreetSchenley 9401
Margaret MorrisonEdltli Warren..............Forbes HallSchenley 9340
Science
Editors of Publications.
TartanIT. F. Simpson.........................5017 Forbos StreotSchenley 9143
PuppetV. C. Olson................................4921 Forbos StreetSchenley 0059
Technical JournalW. Lyman.557-1 AylesboroHazel 9345
ThistleJ. D. Slyo......................................5549 Forbes StreetHazel 3320
SchillingAnno Klrker....................0017 Grafton StreetHiland 7995-J
Business Managers.
TartanW. B. Cunningham................4915 Forbes StreetSchenley 9211
PuppetB. Broudy ............................. ............*....................................  ..............
Technical Journal
ThlstloJ. R. Reid................................5224 Liberty AvenueHiland 0S58
SchillingMildred Abel..1___.7722 Brasliear StreetFranklin 754-M
Musical Clubs.
President (Men's)L. R. Tureotte. .4915 Forbes StreetSchenley 9211
Manager (Mens)Ray Keller........254 Bellefield Ave.Schenley 9102
President (Womens)Louise Porter___...Carrick, Pa.Carrick 1540
Manager (Women's)Gretchen Issel.........Mellon HallSchenley 9003
Band (Manager)Rudy........................5001 Wilkins AvenueHazel 9350
L
During the past two years there 
was an insistent campaign on the 
campus against the practice of "cut
ting across the campus. At the 
same time, and while everyone agreed 
as to the correctness of the principle, 
there was a silent and equally per
sistent ignoring of ye editors, jani
tors and watchmen. Students, and 
practically co-eds agreed swoetly 
that cutting' was not the thing to 
do, and then clamly proceeded to do 
it. The issue was In doubt until 
last June, when, lo and behold, a 
path was made for the erring feet.
In itself the incident is of little 
importance, since the "Maggie 
Murphs have not reported an as
tounding decrease in late arrivals for 
eight-thirties. The only reason that 
it is called to mind here is that it 
typifies the spirit of Carnegie.
Our Alma Mater is still growing. 
Changes are taking place on every 
side and innovations are continually 
made. If one considers the purely 
material aspect of the campus, the 
changes are astounding. Where is 
the pile of junk that used to dis
grace the rear of the Arts Building? 
Where 'is the rock pile football field 
upon which many teams went down 
,to defeat in 1920. The barren hill
sides that used to greet the eyes of 
the natives of Forbes Hall is no 
longer so barren and the pleasant 
green of the slopes near the tennis 
courts is a feast for the eyes. The 
boardwalks about the mens dormi
tories have been replaced by cement, 
and the Hoot Mon has come to augi 
inent the Skibo Inn. The beanery 
has gone forever to be replaced by 
the Carnegie Commons, and the new
CORRECTIONS MADE IN 
PLEBE REGULATIONS
The following changes have been 
made in the Freshmen regulations, 
and it is advisable that all Plebes 
list there in their bibles or some
where where they will -be constantly 
in their minds:
The Campus includes all of Schen
ley Park and Woodlawn avenues as 
far as Forbes street and the cut, to 
the library end of the bridge. These 
regulations are in force at all times 
except Sundays and at advertised so
cial events in the evenings.
Freshmen must attend all athletic 
contests scheduled! at home.
The Campus Flag Pole and Tank 
at Machinery Hall are considered out 
of bounds.
No Freshman may have or wear a 
civilian hat on the campus.
Freshmen are prohibited from us
ing Room 01 in Science Building.
No Freshmen are permitted to use 
the upper-classmen entrance or loiter 
near this entrance of Science School.
Freshmen must use the entrance 
marked student entrance to the Col
lege of Industries when entering this 
building.
Freshmen are prohibited1 from using 
.main entrance of Central Building.
Freshmen are not permitted to use 
main stairs from first to second floor 
at end of main corridor in the In
dustrial" Building.
FANNYS HOUSE IS NEW
HOME OF MELLON HALL COOK
The small playhouse on the laAvn 6f Mellon Hall has been turned into 
a veritable doll house in which real 
people are living. The house is ex
actly fifteen feet square, lias a tiny 
Porch, contains two small rooms, and 
a full-sized modern bath room. There 
are casement windows and electric 
lights. The floor of one room is cov
ered with a green rug, and the floor 
of the other with, a red rug. The
gymnasium is beginning to take 
form. One could continue to enumer
ate the improvements for a long 
while. There -is but one really sore 
spot on the campus. That is the 
upper-classmens entrance to Science 
Building, familiarly and affectionately 
known as the Hog-shute. Undoubt
edly a few years pill see also that 
removed, and we will have a campus 
worthy of Carnegie Tech.
The school's chief improvement is 
not in the physical aspects of its 
campus, however, but in the spirit 
of the place. We are coming to feel 
that Carnegie men and women are 
ail in one big family, that we are 
all working for the good of Carnegie 
Tech, whether that be on the chess 
teams or the athletic teams, on the 
student council or the Plebe Regula
tions Committee, on the Puppet or 
The Carnegie Tartan, in school or 
out of school. Carnegie Tech is 
proud of the men and women that 
have gone before the present college 
generation on her campus and she 
is going to be still more proud of the 
alumni of the future if we can only 
foster and help that spirit along.
The glory of our school lies in the 
fact that she is not yet tied and fet
tered by tradition. Precedents mean 
little to Carnegie Tech. Her youth is 
her chief virtue; like youth she is 
eternally on the lookout for pro
gress and known; how to adopt her
self to new situations. It is our 
privilege to help mold our school. 
As time, goes on traditions and pre
cedents will come to rule Carnegie 
Tech. Lets make good ones.
Yours, for the good of Carnegie 
Tech,
A. E. KROGH.
house will be heated by gas.
Besides Fanny, the Mellon Hall 
cook, the house will be inhabited by 
her husband, John, one other grown 
person, a child, a cat, and a dog.
Dwight L. Hoopingarner, holder of 
a Fellowship in the Bureau of Person
al Research in 1910-1917 was recently 
appointed executive secretary of the 
American Construction Council and 
executive counsel on Industrial and 
Commercial Relations, in New York 
City. Mr. Hoopingarner was former
ly exeutive manager of the Cleveland 
Building Trades Employers Associa
tion.
Damon
What did Professor Smith mean this morning when he told you 
that no man could ever make a silk purse out of u sows ear?"
Pythias
He meant that Id never he able to do (food SvoWf With a poor pencil. Guess Ill have to get a Dixons lildorado. Old Smlty says it's the best drawing pencil made."
ELiffibO
"He master chawingpencil'
17 leadsall dealers
Grace Reformed 
Church
Dithridge and Bayard Streets 
Rev. Frederick C. Nau, D.D.,
Students Cordially Invited to 
All Services.
SERMONS FOR
Thinking Students
SUNDAY MORNING, 11:00 OClock
I.
SEPTEMBER 30
THE FACT OF GOD 
At one of the student conferences held during the summer of 1923 
the students voted on the question as to the problems of paramount 
importance to students. Practically every delegation voted that the 
question of the Realty of a Personal God was the religious subject 
of most moment.
II.
OCTOBER 7
THE FACT OF CHRIST 
Dr. T. R. Glover of Cambridge, speaking to a conference of British
college students, said: 
give anything to know.
Was He God, or Was He Man? You would
III.
OCTOBER 14
THE FACT OF SIN 
Omar Khayyam says: The Moving Finger writes; and having
writ, moves on; nor all your piety nor wit shall lure it back to cancel 
half a line nor all your tears was out a word of it.
Christianity says: I believe in the forgiveness of sin.
IV.
OCTOBER 21
THE FACT OF THE CROSS ,
There is a Cross in God before the wood is seen upon Calvary." 
After reading the story of the Cross Robert Browning said: Did
man invent that story? Is it not too supernatural not to be true?
V.
OCTOBER 28
THE FACT OF PRAYER 
Abraham Lincoln said: I have been driven many times to my
knees by the overwhelming conviction that I had no where else to go. 
My own wisdom and that of all about me seemed insufficient." Was 
Lincoln in touch with reality or illusion?
Shadyside Presbyterian Church 
| Hugh T. Kerr, M.A., L.L.D., Pastor. '** A
*:* Amberson Avenue near Fifth Avenue One square from Morewood *j*
 NEAREST CHURCH TO TECH :
XX*X~X,X~X,X~X~X~X*X*X~X*:X*X"X~X,X"X~X~X~XMXMX"X~X"r<

---------------------------------------------------

WEDNESDAY, SEPTEMBER 26, 1923THE CARNEGIE TARTANPAGE THREE
1: mi A J np li! nr f 0 r*!i PLAIDiATHLETICS4*
SPECIAL TRAIN 
FOR INVASION 
OF CLEVELAND
GAME WITH TOLEDO1 
IS TO OPEN SEASON
Lineup Against Ohioans i 
Still ProblematicalLight 
Backfield
On the Plaid Screen
Arrangements Being Made 
For Plaid Supporters on 
Team Trips to St. Ignatius 
and Realm of the Presidents
LOW ROUND-TRIP FARE
------------------
On to Cleveland! Carnegie Tech I 
will have a big special train to Cleve-1 
land for the St. Ignatius game. The ! 
rates will be very low. The trip will 
only be about three and a half hours. 
In other words it is a trip which every 
Carnegie student can and will make.
All upper classmen can remember 
the famous trips of the past. They 
never will forget them. There is a 
spirit and enthusiasm present on 
these trips which is really inspiring. 
No one ever regrets having gone- on 
one.
,The cynic may say: "That St. Ignotius game will not be an important 
one. That, however, is the point of 
view of students who do not think. 
From several points of view that game 
is one of the most important on the 
schedule. Just imagine how Cleve
land will be impressed in seeing our 
kiltie band followed by an army of 
students parading through tlieir 
streets. . Also, dont you belie v^ that 
our team will gain a little more con: 
fidence and fight in seeing such an ex
hibition?
The upperclassmen who have been 
on former trips will no doubt be there. 
Therefore it is up to you Freshmen 
to show your spirit and join the 
crowd on October 13.
One of Carnegies tradition is 100 
per cent attendance at the Little 
Washington game. The round trip 
ticket will be $1.15. With the railroad 
fare so low there is no student who 
cannot afford it. Nothing need be 
said about W. & J. trips of the past. 
Everyone knows all about them. 
There will probably be two specials 
to Washington.
Start saving now. The writer esti
mates that by not eating breakfast 
"between now and the St. Ignatius 
game enough can be saved to go to 
W. & J. and Cleveland. Of course 
that is merely scientific data and not 
a suggestion.
PLUMBING DEPARTMENT
PUBLISHES RESEARCH
(Continued From Page One.) 
plumbing industry. In an effort to 
solve the jointing problem, Mr Dibble, 
in collaboration with Professor R. B. 
Leigliou, Carnegie Tech chemist, has 
experimented during the past two 
years in perfecting various bitumi
nous compounds for joints. Recent 
successful tests of bituminous com
pounds developed by Messrs. Dibble 
and Leigliou have received the wide
spread attention of the plumbing in
dustry, with the result that the Hoov
er Building Codes Committee has re
quested a demonstration prior to the 
preparation of the Federal building 
codes.
If Mr. Dibble's demonstration is 
successful, the committee will un
doubtedly adopt the method of using 
bituminous compounds for joints in 
the Federal Building Code, which they 
are preparing, and which will be 
adopted in turn by each state ill the 
country. The demonstration will be 
given in the Bureau of Standardsv.
33J3M3J3M3MSMSM3M3M3M3MS/3MSJS3]
COLLEGIATE 
BARBEE. SHOP 
418 South Craig St.
DANIEL & CICERO 
Proprietors. 
SsMSiSMSMMSMSMSJSMMSMMSiSMS/SM
SCHENLEY 
TAILORING CO.
Collect and Deliver. X 
Call Schenley 1538
1 Craig Restaurant j
412 CRAIG STREET 
I Quick Service and Cleanliness. | 
I TRY OUR REGULAR DINNER I 
40c and 50c
Only three more days remain be
fore the opening of the 1923 football 
season at Carnegie Tech and the 
coaches and players are working like 
beavers in order to make it an aus
picious one. While little is known 
of the team representing the Univer
sity of Toledo, Advisory Coach Steffen 
is not holding them lightly in his es
timation, nor is he going to take any 
chances, so he has been putting the 
boys through their paces especially 
hard the past two weeks and is anxi
ous to see how some of them will 
act under fire. He lias not definitely 
decided what combination lie will use 
against Toledo University, but it is 
almost certain that many of the sub
stitutes will get a chance to show 
their wares before the final whistle 
blows.
Captain Jimmy; Robertson will be 
at bis old position at. quarterback 
when the game starts. The little 
fellow has been going better than 
ever in practice, and a big year is 
predicted for him. The other day in 
scrimmage against the Freshmen 
Robertson made several long runs, in
cluding a run the entire length of 
the field for a touchdown from kickoff. Brumbaugh, who will again hold 
down the fulback position, made a 
similar run. in the same scrimmage. 
J. Anderson, last years captain, will 
be back at right halfback, while the 
other half-back position is a little un
certain just now. For a time it look
ed like Newman would draw the as
signment for leftback, but he has 
been on the sidelines ifor some time 
with a wrenched knee and it is 
doubtful that he will be able to start 
in the first game next Saturday. In 
that event, Max Bastian or Pittman 
will get the preference. Both of these 
boys have been going at a great clip 
in practice and they are both expect
ed to see plenty of action this fall.
The personnel of the line is not so 
certain as that of the backfield. 
Either Gilbert, who played a guard 
position last year, or Taylor will be 
seen at center. Beede, the Youngs
town boy, made a strong bid for cen
ter during the spring football train
ing last May, but ho met with an un
fortunate accident last summer and 
will be unable to play at all until 
some time late in October. Comfort 
and Moessner look like the best can
didates at the guards and they have 
been played there in scrimmage reg
ularly. Zelt is at left tackle and 
Yoder at right tackle. The latter 
will attempt to fill Sprinkles shoes 
and bids fair to do so as he weighs 
195 pounds and is strong.
Other linemen who are showing up 
well and who aro liable to get a 
chance eairly in the season are Predmore, P. Anderson, Cass and Schell, j 
The ends are causing the coaches no 
little worry. There is a host of can
didates out for the two wing posi
tions, but the places of such men as 
Godden and Potter of last years 
eleven will be hard to fill. B. Kristof, 
Mofort, liable, Wertenberger and| 
Temmel are doing the best work ju^t' 
now, and it is problematical just 
which pair will be 'in the game at 
the staat Saturday. I-Iable bas had 
previous varsity experience, but did 
not playi last year on account of bis 
scholastic standing. Kristoff made his 
letter at tackle last year, but Coach 
Steffen is trying the big boy at end 
this fall. Mefort got into some of 
the games at end last season and
should develop rapidly this year. He
is big, rangy and fast.
There will be a lack of weight in 
the backfield this year, especially
among the subs. Pittman and Bas
tian are' both rather small, each 
weighing slightly under 160 pounds. 
Joe  Eaton, former Schenleyi High 
star, is the heaviest of. the promis
ing backfield men. He tips the
scales at about 170 pounds. He is 
rather green as yet, but is a likely 
looking candidate for substitute full
back. Christoff, McCarthy, Cook and 
Mohrman of last year's Freshmen, 
look good, but all are small; yet, 
with the heavy schedule facing the 
Tartans this year every available 
man will .be needed. The success of 
the team, however, will depend large
ly upon the luck dealt out to the 
regulars. If they can keep from get
ting hurt, the outlook for the season 
is very favorable.
E. C. FRAZIER
BUDDY ACCEPTS
Clarencebetter known as BuddyOverend, has accepted the Athletic 
Councils offer and will adjust his business affairs to allow him to take com
plete charge of the Graduate Managers office within the near future, per
haps the first of the year.
Mr. Overend has been an outstanding figure in Plaid athletics for many 
years and is the best possible choice for successor to tho late Mr. Ilaaren. 
We know the man and his work, and wish him the best of fortune in tho 
carrying on of the task which he is assuming.
GUY HALFERTY
Mr. Halferty, the newly appointed track and cross-country coach, is not 
an unknown figure on the Campus. If you will take the trouble to look 
about the walls of the Science club room, and will examine the various track 
and field trophies on display there, you will see the name of Guy Halferty 
thereon a number of times.
Besides being one of the outstanding track stars of his time, he estab
lished a school record which has stood ever since. In 1909, in the Pitt 
Intercollegiate meet, Halferty ran the 220-yard hurdle event in 25 and 4-5 
seconds, thus making the longest standing record in the schools cinder path 
history.
THE JUDGE SPEAKS
Coach Wally Steffens message to the student body of Carnegie at the 
years maiden assembly was heard by only a small part of the student body. 
We dont know what the Plebes thought when the Judge spoke gently, but 
none the less reprovingly, of the slump in the old Tartan spirit which was 
so intense only a few years ago: but the few of the older students who were 
present were hurt that such a thing should have come to pass. We listened 
in cringing silence to the final indictment from the lips of our coach.
When Wally speaks, something usually happens. May his words bring 
a revival of the days when cheer leaders did not have to 'urge, and when 
the old Slcibo spirit walked, be the team winning or losing.
SOON WE SHALL KNOW
This week brings the culmination of several weeks of hard and con
scientious training for the men on the Plaid football squad. Coaches Steffen, 
Marks and Sprinkle have driven their men hard, and the men have responded 
with their best. On Saturday afternoon, both the Plebe and Varsity elevens 
will make their initial appearance on tliex home field. We dont think an 
appeal of any sort is necessary, for every Plaid supporter is anxious for the 
chance to see wliat their team look like in battle.
PROSPECTS BRIGHI' FOR 
PLEBE FOOTBALL TEAA\
STEFFEN URGES MORE 
TECH SPIRIT AT GAMES
The Freshmeu got away to a line 
start last week uuder. Head Coach 
Sprinkle and indications point to a 
good fast team. Although many of 
the men that are now on the squad 
are inexperienced in certain phases 
of the gome, things will be looking 
bright next Saturday when tho 
Freshmen appear on the Tech field, I 
because by that, time Coach Sprinkle 
will have the men well trained and 
familiar with the Steffen system.
The Freshmen team lost many good j 
men who were lit the training camp 
because the men failed to get into 
school. Many new men are showing 
up, and although Sprinkle has not 
made public his lineup for the game 
with Westinghouse Tech next Satur
day, he probably has a team picked.
Call Issued For Plebes to 
Try For Assistant Manager
SNAKES!
Two football games on the home field this season. A sod that has been 
tried and found worthy. Why not start up the old snake dances that were | 
discontinued last year on account of the newness of the sod?
Some such exhibition is all that is necessary to give vent to student feel
ings if the team is winning, and to impart new courage in the face of defeat. I
Lets get out between halves again this year and put on some of those I 
pretty exhibitions that have made Carnegie Tech known far and wide for 
school spirit.Two snake dances on the homo field will do no material harm. All 
the rest will be on Forbes Field or on foreign soil. Like the Paul Jones, 
a snake dance gets the crowd together, puts everybody in a happy and 
hopeful mood.
Mr. Cheerleader, let's have a snake dance!
Lets have the first one of the year this Saturday!
OUR WEALTHY NEIGHBORS
We understand from the papers that University of Pittsburgh is to have 
a new stadium. Congratulations, Pitt! As the Panther gets older and tough
er, he needs larger quarters, and we rejoice with you in your prospects of a 
new acquisition. ____ _______
Notice For Mens Fall  
Tennis Tournament
The men in charge of the fall ten
nis tournament have plans well under 
way for a successful competition. lf. 
remains for the student body to make 
as large registration as possible.
The tournament is open to all stu
dents from Freshmen to Seniors. A 
cup will be awarded to the winner, 
and possibly one to the runner-up. It 
is hoped that this will be an incen
tive for many to register.
The fee is fifty cents, and the last 
date for registration is Wednesday, 
September 26, 1923, up until 4:30. 
Register with Mr. McDonald1, in the 
Employment Office in Central Build
ing.
DETAILS OF NEW GIRLS
DORMS SHAPING WELL
Oakland Savings & 
Trust Co.
Member Federal Reserve 
System.
Capital.........................$300,000.00
Surplus.........................$300,000.00
Deposits, Over - - - $5,000,000.00
SAFE DEPOSIT BOXES 
FOR RENT
(Continued from Pago One) 
and pending her arrival Miss Brown 
will act as house. mother. Peg 
Coombs is the Mellon house president 
for the year. Mrs. Kirkpatrick will 
be in general charge of all the Wood
lawn dorms and will be assisted by 
the following staff: 5133, Mrs. Edna
Crown and Dorothy Kendall, house 
president; 5137, Miss Grace Patterson 
and Janet Perry, house president; 
5143, Miss Kennedy and Mary, Viall; 
5151, Miss Lydia Heller and Isabelle 
Sowash; 5147 Miss Harriet Walker 
and Elizabeth Lenahan. 5090 Forbes 
is in charge of Mrs. Mary McCahn; 
5150; IMiss Edith Winchester and 
Mary Steumpfle, house president; 
5080, Miss Cecile Van Steenburg; 
5072, Miss Hazel McKee; and 5064, 
Miss Anna I-Iibbs. 5064. 5072, 5080, 
and 5090 Forbes have not. as yet elect
ed house presidents. Mellon Annex 
is chaperoned by Miss Feldkirchner. 
325 Morewood, the home of Mrs. Con
nors has been named as an approved 
house by Dean Brown.
NJUN TRIES TO BURY
HATCH ET'SP E CTATO R S
ALL TRY TO SNATCH IT
(Continued From Page One.)
"Hows chances on aomo corn?" 
says Lefty,
We aint got no corn but wo got 
some nice corn silks. Lets llglit 
up.
After this cagey rovnarlc they guts 
out. tho old hod and oacli takes a 
drag. Then they all sing something 
like the Anvil Chorus which reminds 
some-master mind that they got an 
axo to bury. And so they does 
that is, they nearly do. Just as tho 
big boSs is about to toss tho hatchet 
into the hole that somebody obligingly 
dug for him last year a wliolo pack 
ol' guys jumps out of their seats and 
makes a grab for it. And they all 
gets It. Then they fights for about 
an hour over whats left of It. It 
seems somebody bit off tho lioad and 
took :it up to where Ills gang li'anga 
out. Anyway the curfew rings and 
they begins to arbitrate. Then they 
deals a cold hand around and a pair 
of ladies wins and tho guy that dealt 
the second quoen takes home tho 
handle. Then the Injuns goes in to 
get a refund on their suits.
Who was the Greeks you say? Why 
as nears I can make out theyre not 
all like the guys that run the restau
rants. They just buy a button and 
calls themselves Greeks. And what 
did the chief say? Why he just 
squats down on his hunkers and 
bawls out:
Oil Lord, please dont be hard ori 
me,
Ive go your axe in view,
The head is at the Woodlawn Club, 
The handles at D. U.
DORMS HOLD ELECTIONS
NEW HOUSEHOLD TEACHER
Plebes are urged to try out for 
football manager. There are only 
four or five oiit now and at least a 
dozen are necessary to help manage 
the team. In the first and second 
years, fellows work at the field 
house and on ^the field, during foot
ball season, carrying out the orders 
of the managers. At the end of the 
second year two of tho Sophomores 
who have sliowu managerial ability 
are chosen to bo first assistant foot
ball managers in their junior years. 
At the end of the junior year one is 
chosen as varsity manager, receiving 
a majority letter for his work. Tiltother is appointed the plebe manager 
for the year, receiving a minor letter. 
This is one of tho best ways of do
ing things for the Alma Mater and 
getting acquainted with the team. 
Any Plebo who is interested should 
speak to one oL tho mnaagors any 
afternoon and take a try at manag
ing
Y. M. C. A. HOLDS ANNUAL
COUNSELLOR DINNER
(Continued From Pago Ono.) 
conducted at tho First; Baptist church 
every Sunday evening for the benefit 
of college men.
Weekly swims aro to bo hold, start
ing Thursday night, at the Schenley 
High iS'chool. This treat will last 
from 7:00 p. m. till 8:00 and all Carnoglo Tech men are invited to at
tend.
Tn addition to those preparations 
for the entertainment of students, tho 
Y nsslsts In conducting Tech 
nights at various loal churches and 
entertains successfully men who re
main at college during vacations.
In short the Y does everything 
possible for tho ontortalnmont and 
help of tho Carnogio Tech men.
Enrollment for tills year wil1 start 
on October 8 and continue for throo 
days and every man In school will bo 
givon eii opportunity to join.
to constltuto tho Dormitory Council 
for 1923-24: J. (J. Conloy. W. L. Tadloclc, A. 'S. Hendrickson, W. O. (Soughnour, W. J. Parish.
In addition to the oloctlon of tho 
council, an amendment was voted to 
tho Constitution making It permiss
ible, but not obligatory, for two of tho 
five council members to bo represen
tatives from Ilio Junior class.
Our old friend, tho Judge, handed 
out his few dioico bits of dopo Iu a 
short address at tho big assembly 
last Tuesday. As ho mounted the 
stage the ball reverberated with ap
plause from the student body.
Steffen, as usual, failed to givo, 
out any real inside dope, but instead 
urged tho student body to improve 
cheering at the games. He' brought 
out the fact that the cheerleader, 
should not bo forced to use uuneceseary measures to get cheers, but that 
the students should have so much 
Old Tech Spirit as to yell spontane
ously.
Last, but not least, he gave the 
ambitious Plebes some good advico 
on busting out of school, and end
ed his talk by saying Carnegie Tech 
would have a team that would be out 
there to win.
PLAN LARGE PR0GRAft\ 
FOR GIRLS ATHLETICS
Tho Aathlettc Board of M. Mi C. C. 
has .mapped out what promises to be 
the most extensive program of girls 
athletic events ovor attempted.
During tho fall, will come the girls' 
tennis doubles, bowling, swimming 
and the annual scholarship dance, tho 
latter taking place somo time in No
vember. Class basket ball practice 
will bogin about December 1 and 
terminate in hotly contested interclass games after the Christmas. re
cess. The varsity squad will start 
work as soon as this series is de
cided.
Interclass gamos in volley ball and 
baseball will hold tho girls' interest 
in tho spring. Tho tennis singlos 
which take place in the late spring 
are growing in popularity and should 
havo a largo entry list.
Probably tho most Interesting event 
of tho year will bo the girls athlotlc 
moot similar to tho ono which 
arousod so much Interest during 
Campus Woolc last yoar.
At. tho next mooting of tho Ath
letic Board a now faculty advisor 
will be oloctod to take tho place of 
Miss Bowman who rosfgnod at tho 
closo of school last; yoar.
ATHLETIC COUNCIL 
ELECTS NEW MEN
Buddy' Overend to Replace 
Former Manager Haaren 
Halferty Elected
On Monday evening, September 
18, the Athletic Council held a very 
important meeting. Due to the death 
of Mr. Ilaaren, the position of Grad
uate Manager of Atnietics has been 
open. Mr. Clarence Buddy Overen.l 
was oloctod for that very responsible 
and diffieftlt position. Little need be* 
said here about, the new manevery 
Carnegie man knows Buddy and his 
ability.
Tlio cross-country schedule was ap
proved and Mr. Guy Halferty, a for
mer Skibo athlete, was given the po
sition of track and cross country 
coach.
The council also decided upon tho 
price of reserved seats for the Notre 
Da mo game. Reserved seats will be 
$2.00 and boxes $2.50.
The game with the University of 
Toledo on September 29 was approved 
and a Freshman preliminary game 
with Wostinghouse Tech for that 
same day was decided upon.
GO TO THE
Tech Barber Shop
FOR YOUR HAIR CUTS
Five Bnrborn nt your norvlce.
ON FORBES, TWO DOORS 
BELOW CRAIG
PROF. DIBBLE, NEW CHAIRMAN
OF Y. M. C. A. COMMITTEE
The committee of management of 
tho Y. M. C. A. has held Its first offi
cial meeting with Prof. :S. E. Dibble, 
who was recently appointed as chair
man, in charge.
Tho following other officers wore 
elected for the coming yoar: Mr. IT.
Iv. Kirkpatrick, vice ' chairman; Prof. 
B. C. Dennison, treasurer; Mr. Horace 
G. Nichol, '21, secretary.
Mr. P. F. Schuclcor was elected to 
take charge of the enrollment cam
paign.
A PART OF YOUR 
EDUCATION
Asldo from the deolrnble 
habit of thrift which it helps 
you to establish, a bank ac
count gives you valuably ex
perience In tho handling of 
flnanoos.
The personal interest of 
Its officers In the business 
and flnnnclal welfnre of de
positors Is an outstnndlnq 
characteristic of this InotltuIton.
Mellon Naiional Bank
P111sbujjr h, Ph.
DRESS SUITS TO RENT 
All Occasions
Owlor curly for the 
Next Formal Affair
Largest stock between New York and 
Chicago
WHITTINGTON DRESS SUIT CO. 
6002 Jenkins Arcade Pittsburgh
SinitlifieUl 0341.
Aufhammer & Evans
Hats and Mens Furnishings
6100 PENN AVENUE
At Sheridan SquareEast Liberty
At a meeting of the dormitory men, 
called by Dean Tarbell, and held on 
Thursday evening, September 20, the 
following five students were elected
SCIENCE AND IND. PLEBES
HOLD ASSEMBLY IN 218 SC.
The Freshman Assembly was held 
in 218 Science Building last Thursday. 
It was presided over by Director Day 
and T. N. Griggs. The announcement 
was made concerning the future as
semblies, and the Freshman class wa3 
divided into two sections, one holding 
their assemblies in 218 Science Build
ing and the other in 104 industries in 
the future. The Freshman regula
tions were thoroughly explained and 
a general talk on work and use of 
advisors was given by Director Day.
NOTICE!
Announcing our New Department 
Ready to Wear
CLOTHING and OVERCOATS 
Davies & Hughes
Oaklands Mens Store
3615 FORBES STREET Open Evenings Next to Strand Theater
Fall Sport Schedules
Varsity Football.
September 29Toledo ................................................................... Tech Field
October 6Thiel ................................................................................... Tech Field
October 13St. Ignatius .......................................'.............................. Cleveland
October 20Washington and Jefferson.......................... Washington, Pa.
October 27Pitt ................................................................................ Forbes Field
November 3Lehigh ...................................................................... Forbes Field
November 10Detroit University .................................... Detroit, Mich.
November 24Notre Dame ........................................................... Forbes Field
Freshman Football.
September 29Westinghouse Tech .............................................. Tech Field
October GSlippery Rock .................................................................. Tech Field
October 13State Freshmen ......................................................................... State
October 27Pitt Freshmen .......................................................... Forbes Field
November 3Kiskl .................................................................................. Saltsburg
November 9California ......................................................................... California
November 1GBellefonte .................................................................... Tech Field
Cross Country.
Schedule not yet ready for publication.
Other College Football Games This Saturday.
Franklin and Marshall vs. Pennsylvania...................................Philadelphia
Bucknell vs. Pitt ...................................................................................... Lewlsburg
Lebanon Valley vs. Penn State.....................................................State College
Muhlenberg vs. Lafayette ........................................................................... Easton
Bethany vs. W. & J.............................................................................. Washington
St. Bonaventure vs. Cornell........................................................................ Ithaca
Hobart vs. Syracuse ............................................................................   Syracuse
Tennessee vs. Army............................................................................... West Point
William and Mary vs. Navy ................................................................ Annapolis
Kalamazoo vs. Notre Dame.................................................................Notre Dame
What a difference 
just a few cents make !FATIMA

---------------------------------------------------

PAGE FOURTHE CARNEGIE TARTANWEDNESDAY, SEPTEMBER 26, 1923
1&! ALUMNI P,
%
C! !! i  i
-----------------------------------, I ! 
MARGARET MORRISON ALUMNAE
At tlio time of going to promt it 
is imwpalblo to give tho complete 
schedule ot' events for the now year. 
However, tho Program Committee 1L 
ghuli to tell: about a J.'ow of tho af
fair* that are planned.
After tho bUBlnOBB meeting which 
head the Hat on October I'd, 1b tho 
Evening Bridge Party> in November, 
which 1b Intended to bo more of n 
family affair" than the largo bene
fit card party which Iulb become our 
moat important annual event, A 
Bako Sale Jb also under conslderation, but tho question of a suitable 
date is yet to be decided upon. It 31 
desired to have it at the most aus
picious aeason when prospective cus
tomers will bo literally starving for 
our wafes. Either late Novembor or 
February are tho suggested dates. A 
Theater Party In the Little Theator 
Jb scheduled for February, and, romomherlng the tears that were shed 
by last year's audience at tho tragedy, the committee is strenuously en
deavoring to book a comodyt for that 
date. Tho ilnnovatlon of the year Jb 
the Swimming Party which it Js 
hoped will introduce the alumnae to 
the pool in the new gym. However, 
if this Is but a fond dream, not to bo 
realized at such an early date as 
March, we shall have to be content 
with splashing in a pool far from 
our own campus. In April comes the 
big annual scholarship (benefit bridge 
which must be put over In fine shape 
as we now have two .$200 scholar
ships to support.
Of course, Campus Week: will loom 
largely In Muy and all classes are 
urged now to plan their reunions and 
other stunts accordingly.
Owing to the "pressure of events, 
LO few Seniors are able to attend 
the Commencement Tea given in 
their honor, that it has- been' thought 
advisable to hold this affair on the 
Saturday before Commencement.
As stated In last weolcs Tartan, 
printed) calendars, with the notlccB 
of the business meeting to be hold 
on Saturday, October 13, will bo 
mailed to Alumni.
The Program Committee will wel
come any suggestions in connection 
with tho events mentioned abovo or
any others wJiich may< be desirable to 
all to the program.
Let's co-operate!
Program Committee.
MARY C BR1NTOK,
Chairman,
LOIS McCOMBS,
ANNA McBANDLESS, 
MARGUERITE M. SHUPP, 
EDNA C. SMITH.
NORFOLK CLAN
The first meeting of the Norfolk 
Clan of Tidewater, Va., will bo hold 
October 0, ln Mr. Splgles office. All 
Alumni and former students of Car
negie are invited and urged to be 
present. Tho officers for the coming 
year aro Dave Fit'/,gibbon, president, 
and James M. Phillips, secretary.
BUFFALO PLAY OPENS
SEASON FOR DRAMATS
(Continued From 'Page One.) 
general) Tom, Dick and Harry, played 
by James Resley, Charles McCarthy, 
and Philip Thorn. There are more 
than sixty spealcing parts, but many 
of them are characters which appear 
for only a moment, and Bomo of the 
Department Seniors are putting on 
throe complete and different charac
terizations in the course of the even
ing. Elizabeth Sowersby, Dorothy 
Schell and Mary Power are playing 
tho Three Fates Jn the symbolic in
duction with which tho play begins, 
and Janet MIllIs, Ida Kraus and Ellen 
Lowo all have Important parts in the 
modern scenes.
A special dress rehearsal Is to be 
given In tho Arts Theater Thursday 
evening, the 27th, for a group of the 
Pittsburgh Safety Council, who will 
thus witness the production In ad
vance of the Buffalo convention. 
Plans are under way for public per
formance In Pittsburgh after the 
trip.
The Drama Department Is to be 
congratulated on receiving tho honor 
of putting on such a largo production. 
Buffalo is known as an appreciative 
city, and tho good In advertisement It 
will give to Carnegie Tech Js beyond 
calculations.
ADVERTISE AND GET RESULTS
Kiltie Band to be Out
At All Football Games
The Alumni who so generously an
swered tho plea this summer for con
tributions to tho Kiltie Fund will be 
pleased to see the Kiltie Band out 
In full regalia at all the football 
games. Subscriptions to the Kiltie 
Fund may still be made and should 
bo Bent to G. L. Tllbrook, treasurer.
BUDDY OVEREND APPOINTED 
GRADUATE MANAGER 
TO GUIDE CARNEGIE
ATHLETIC POLICY
(Continued From Puge One.) 
elected to tho presidency of that body, 
which position fie has held since. His 
other outside interests are legion, for 
beside his connection with the athlet
ics of tho school, he lias been presi
dent of the Varsity Clan, hold mem
berships in the P. A. A. and Chamber 
of Commerce and is one of the leading 
spirits of tho Pittsburgh Field Club.
In the business world, he is official
ly known as district sales manager 
of the Savage Mountain Fire Brick 
Co., of Frostberg, Md. He has been 
with this firm for 13 years and is a di
rector of tho company. He is, in ad
dition, interested in several other 
companies.
Personally, he Is an exceptionally 
likeable gentleman. He is easy to ap
proach, and is a frank and open 
speaker and a good listener, provided 
the speaker has something worth lis
tening to. He is tall, blond and good 
looking, and is at present burdened 
with a hirsute adornment, wliich he 
says will not be there long, and bonce 
provides us with his portrait au 
naturel.
Little can be said concerning Mr. 
Overends future policy; but he lias 
tho greatest respect for Mr. Haaren's 
ability and will not Introduce any ma
terial changes in the former mana
ger's methods at this time. It is not 
known when Mr. Overend will take 
possession of the Graduate Manager's 
ofilco on a full time basis; possibly 
not until the first of the year. In the 
meantime, he will continue his pres
ent arrangement of spending neveral 
liourB each day in the Central Build
ing office.
Al Irwin will continue to serve as 
assistant to the manager and will 
also spend some time coaching and 
scouting for the football team.
BILL SAYS MINGLES 
WITH HOLLYWOOD ELITE
William J. Reilly, who was grad
uated from Carnegie Tech Jn 1921 with 
a B. S. and an M. S. degree Jn 1923 
was the author of a series of three 
articles that appeared Jn the Holly
wood, Cal., Daily Citizen, September 
4, fi, and 8, written in connection with 
"The Coming Eclipse." Mr. Reilly 
succeeded in livening up his articles 
with the same prolificness that 
marked his "Bill says:" column a 
feature in tho 1921-1922 issues of the 
Tartan.
Incidentally, Mr. Reilly was invited 
to become a member of the party of 
distinguished scientists from this 
country and Europe who viewed the 
total eclipse of the sun September 10 
from Fort Rosecrans, in California. 
Elaborate equipment to photograph 
the eclipse was set up at the fort.
Mr. Reilly plans an indefinite stay 
in Hollywood, which was originally 
his home. As far as we have been 
able to learn he has made no attempt 
to enter the movies as a rival of 
Rudolph.
SOPHS VICTORIOUS IN
INTER-CLASS CONTESTS
(Continued From Page One.), 
upon shedding his own blood, rather 
than that of a newcomer. Another 
whirlwind bout went to the Sopho
mores; in fact, the participants 
whirled so much like windmillsoc
casionally getting in each others way 
that the referee decided to stop the 
bout. An even split was made in the 
wrestling matches; the Plebes won 
the first, so the Sophe came back and 
took the second with a vengeance.
The feature of the day, the ropetying contest, was liotly contested and 
full of its usual thrills. The Sopho
mores easily overwhelmed their op
ponentsprobably through their pre
vious experience in this respect. This 
contest, which concluded the program, 
gave the Sophomores the necessary 
points to squeeze through victorious 
by a score of 2G-25.
Good sportsmanship prevailed and 
thq class of '27 is to be complimented 
on their excellent show of spirit, char
acteristic of all good members of the 
Carnegie Clan.
PATRONIZE OUR ADVERTISERS
Engineering Levels Mountains
The Pack Train lias become a relic of the 
past, along with the Prairie Schooner. 
Modern methods ol' transportation have 
leveled mountains, brought San Francisco 
nearer to New York, and widened the mar
kets of all our great industries.
And the engineering brains and energy, 
that have developed transportation to the 
prominence it holds in the business of the 
world today, are no longer employed in 
improving means of overland travel alone. 
Street Railways, Elevator Systems, Interurban Lines and Improved Shipping Lines 
these are some of the accomplishments of 
engineering in the development, of better 
transportation.
Neither have the builders of such systems 
boon concerned only in I he actual hauling of 
people and materials. A study ol' t he methods 
of handling passengers and freight at tho 
large terminals has developed the Terminal 
Engineer, who has greatly improved existing
methods, and has developed entirely new 
ones, as well.
Engineering, as it is applied to transporta
tion, has had to concern itself with many 
kinds of materials and many ways of handling 
them under all manner of circumstances. 
For instance the problems surrounding the 
handling of iron ore, in bulk, are vastly 
different from those encountered in moving 
any one of the finished products manufac
tured from iron ore, that must also  be 
transported in large quantities. But Engin
eering constantly meets each situation with 
improved transportation facilities.
Industry, as a whole, and the nations and 
the people of the world owe much to the 
engineers, associated with such large manu
facturing industries as Westinghouse. They 
have not only brought about vast improve
ments, but. they have done so at a constantly 
decreasing cost, to those who derive the 
greatest, benefit from them.
Wesimghouse ( W
ACHIEVEMENT 8 OPPORTUNITY
VESTINGHOUSE
ELECTRIC
PURPOSE OF R.O.T.C. Paid Up Alumni to Get 
OUTLINED BY STAFF: Choice Football Tickets
Reserve Force Being Built Up 
By Means of R. O. T. C. 
Units in College
The It. O. T. C. deserves tile active 
support of every American because it 
is designed to provide systematic mil
itary training at civil educational in
stitutions for the purpose of qualify
ing selected students of such institu
tions for appointment as reserve offi
cers in the military forces of the 
United States.
These reserve officers would he 
called into active service only in case j 
of our country going to war, except 
for the fifteen days active service de
manded yearly, and this is not com
pulsory if it would interfere too much 
with the reserve officer's business af
fairs.
The R. O. T. C. training adds to the 
educational resources of schools and 
colleges. It gives the students train
ing which will be as valuable to them 
in their industrial or professional ca
reers as it would be should the nation 
call upon them to go as leaders in its 
defensive forces.
Physical training forms an essen
tial parts of military instruction. The 
Military Department will always co
operate to the greatest possible extent 
with the Physical Training Depart
ment of educational institutions Jn 
promoting and fostering physical 
training. The R. O. T. C. is organized 
under two divisions, the Senior and 
Junior divisions.
Senior divisons are organized at 
approved institutions of the following 
classes: Civil Educational Institu
tions granting degrees; essentially 
military schools which do not grant 
academic degrees, but whose course 
of military instruction is substantial
ly equivalent to that prescribed for 
senior divisions; state universities; 
state institutions required to give in
struction in military tactcs under Act 
of Congress which donated lands for 
their establishment; The Essentially 
Military Schools, designated by the 
Secretary of War.
Junior Divisions. These consist of 
units organized at any other public 
or private educational institution des
ignated by the iS'ecretary of War. 
These are grouped as follows: Es
sentially Military -Scliool Units; High 
School Units; Junior Units 'in all 
other institutions.
Before either Senior or Junior divi
sions can be established at institu
tions there must be insured to the R. 
0. T. C. unit an enrollment of a mini
mum of 100 physically fit males in 
each unit, all at least fourteen or 
more years of age. Where both Sen
ior -and Junior divisions are estab
lished at one school, there must be 100 students insured in each division.
No R. 0. T. C. units, either Junior 
or Senior, will be established or main
tained until an officer of the army is 
detailed as Professor of Military Sci
ence and Tactics and the school auth
orities agree to establish and maintain 
tho prescribed courses in military in
struction. 0
Eligibility for membership in the 
R. 0. T. C. is limited to students at 
institutions in which units are estab
lished. They must be citizens of the 
United States, 14 or more years of age, 
and their bodily condition such as to 
indicate that they are physically fit to 
perform military duty now or will be 
at the age necessary for appointment 
in tho Officers Reservo Corps (21 
years of age.)
It is the desire of the War Depart
ment that all members of the R. 0. 
T. C. be protected from typhoid and 
paratyphoid fevers, as well as from 
smallpox. Vaccine is given at the' in
stitution so as to avoid loss of val
uable time from the limited schedules 
at the summer camps. The taking of 
vaccine is not compulsory, but stu
dents will not be permitted to go to 
summer camp who are not protected 
from the diseases mentioned or who 
decline to pledge themselves to sub
mit to the administration of vaccine 
on arrival at camp.
It is a good business proposition to 
take both typhoid and paratyphoid 
vacine. Vaccine against these two 
diseases lasts at leasts three years, 
army records show. As to smallpox 
vaccineyou guess.
A member of the R. O. T. C. who 
withdraws from an institutions and 
enters another where an R. O. T. C. is 
established is not released from his 
R. O. T. C. obligation, hut is simply 
transferred from one R. O. T. C. unit 
to another, members may be dis
charged from their contracts on prop^ 
er grounds. Each case is considered 
as an individual case. Contracts 
should not be broken lightly. The 
R. O. T. C. student receives, during 
his Freshman and Sophomore years, 
no pay in money. He is issued a com
plete uniform however. During his 
Junior and Senior years lie receives 
the value of one ration which varies;1 
but, now, and in the near future, it 
will amount to between $27 and $30 
every three months.
Camps. Two summer camps are 
hold. Br.sic and Advanced. Basic 
Camp attendance, while greatly to bo 
dosirod, is optional with the students. 
It may bo attended at end of Fresh
man or Sophomore years.
Advanced camp attendance, how
ever, is a prerequisite to graduation 
at the institution and is compulsory. 
It will normally be attended by stu
dents who have completed at least the 
first semester of the first year of the 
advanced course. In the case of stu
dents who are required, during the 
summer following their junior year, 
to pursue summer training, or who 
elect to pursue technical training dur
ing that summer or to engage in em
ployment in furtherance of their tech
nical training, under the general su
pervision of the authorities of the inAlumni who intend to see the Car
negie football team in action this 
year should pay their alumni dues at 
once. Under the new plan of hand
ling tickets for the games, all paid 
up members of the Federation will 
be given first choice of seats for all 
the football games. . It behooves you 
to send in your dues at once to Mr. 
G. L. Tilbrook, Treasurer of the 
Alumni Association, for if you dont 
you may miss out on the good seats 
for the big games.
stitution, the department or corps 
area commander may authorize them 
to attend the advaned camp upon the 
completion, of their basic course and 
enrollment in the adyanced course.
Transportation to and from camp, 
subsistence, uniform, equipment, and 
medical attendance will be furnished 
members of the Reserve Officers 
Training Corps attending camps. Stu
dents attending the basic camp are 
not paid. Those attending the ad
vanced R. O. T. C. camp, however, will 
be paid during the camp at the rate 
prescribed for soldiers of the army, 
now seventy cents ($0.70) a day.
ARTS DIRECTOR AND
FACULTY RECEIVE PLEBEI
(Continued From Page One.) 
doctor then dived in and extracted 
old shoes, tin pans and divers art
icles; all of which would lia.ve been 
all right if the fellow under the 
table had not been visible. The act 
was very amusing.
The Drama students gave a little 
play consisting of the inevitable love 
triangle. They had an audience of 
their own who supplied most of the 
entertainment by registering appro
priate emotions. Their play was ex
cellent and gave promise of great 
things from the Plebes in the Drama 
Department for the coming year.
The Plebe Architects who were to 
entertain failed to arrive, and were 
duly chastised the following day.
The audience adjourned to the 
foyer where the Tartans, consisting 
of three players, were rorin* to go. 
The rest of the evening was given up 
to dancing.
PUPPET WANTS TO 
WIN FIRST PRIZE
Fourth Place Last Year May 
be First Place This Year
Wake up Alumni! Dont be a 
dead one! You'll need and want an 
issue of Puppet every month this 
year. A live staff has pledged itself 
to surpass the record of that of any 
previous year of Puppet and that 
means a great deal. Last years 
staff put Carnegie. Techs fun-book 
in fourth place in Judges College 
Wits Contest. ^Jvery leading college 
comic competed and the competition 
was keen. But Puppet needs sup
portalumni support-r-to advance it 
still further.
This years staff is out to win first 
place, and the cup given by Judge, or 
bust. But it cant be done withou-: 
YOUR help. And besides all of this 
youll want to laugh, as you used to 
when in college, at the funny take-olf 
of Carnegie Tech life. Youll want to 
keep in touch with the lighter phases 
of your college life which, after all, , 
are the things you remember and 
cherish the most. You dont cease, 
to be a college man after graduation 
and a man is as old as he feels. Let 
Puppet bring back more forcibly your 
days at Carnegie. Dont be a dead 
one! Two dollars will bring you 
nine issues of the funniest college 
magifzine of them all. Send your 
subscription NOW to the Business 
Manager of Puppet, Carnegie Insti
tute of Technology, Pittsburgh, Pa. 
and we' will start you out with our 
first number.
MUSICAL CLUBS TRY-OUTS
AT NEXT SUNDAY MEETING
(Continued From Page One.) 
Mater well up in the fore of such cluba 
in the country.
Come out Sunday.
B. Broudy was elected manager of 
the Musical Clubs at a meeting of 
the old men last Sunday. Broudy 
has liad considerable experience Jn 
managerial lines and is well fitted 
for the position.
Musical Club insignias were givenout at the Commons last Monday to 
the members of last years clubs.
THE constant 
smoker finds 
in Melachrino 
Cigarettes a deli-1 
cacy of flavor of 
which he never 
tires.
ORIGINAL
MELACHRINO
"The One Cigarette Sold the World^Qver
Use It 
Anywhere!
THE Remington Portable Typewriter car
ries its table on its back. You can use it 
anywhereat any time.
It is a complete typewriter with four-row 
keyboardjust like the big machines. Also 
many other useful features of the office type
writer. Yet it is small, compact, and fits in a 
case only four inches high.
Price, complete with case, $60 
Easy payment terms if desiredRemingtonPortable
Remington Typewriter Co. 
102 Sixth Street 
Pittsburgh, Pa.
