WOMENS JUNIOR PROM 
HOTEL SCHENLEY 
FRIDAY NIGHT
BASKET BALL 
GENEVA VS. CARNEGIE 
FRIDAY FIELD HOUSE
VOL. XVII. NO. 16CARNEGIE INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY. PITTSBURGH. PENNSYLVANIAWEDNESDAY, JANUARY 17, 1923
PROF. KELLER, 
CARNEGIE TECH 
PIONEER, DEAD
Was Second Man Appointed 
to Faculty Staff at Found
ing of School  Head of 
Mathematics Department
STUDENTS ARE ASKED
TO REPORT EARNINGS
TO EMPLOYMENT BUREAU
DIED LAST FRIDAY
In the death of Professor Samuel S. 
Keller, head of the Department of 
Mathematics, Carnegie Tech has lost 
one of the pioneers of the teaching 
staff of the school. Pie -was the sec
ond member appointed to the faculty 
and worked for the progress and the 
present status of the school through
out his period of teaching here.
PROF. SAMUEL S. KELLER
Prof. Keller was horn in Spring
field, Ohio, November 1, 1867. He 
received his education in Wittenberg 
College and after graduating elected 
mathematics as his profession. He 
taught at Yale and Wittenberg. His 
work' at these two institutions con
tinued until he was appointed to the 
position of first head of the Depart
ment of Mathematics at Carnegi at 
the time of the founding of the 
school. He began his activities in 
connection with the school before 
work was begun on the building of 
the school.
He will probably be best remem
bered by the alumni in connection 
with his lectures on mathematics and 
mathematical astronomy.
Of late years poor health has handi
capped his ability to spend a large 
part of his time about the campus and 
previous to his death he was confined 
to the Johns Hopkins Hospital at Bal
timore, where lie died Friday morn
ing.
He is survived by Professor Albert
G. Keller of Yale and his daughter, 
Mrs. J. M. Batman, of Pittsburgh. 
Burial will take place in Springfield, 
Ohio.
Plebes Held Banquet 
Last Friday Night
Sophs and Frosh Battle on 
Afternoon Before Feast
The long-delayed Plebe banquet at 
last materialized last Friday night in 
the Hotel Chatham when a hundred 
and eighty Plebes gathered for their 
first. big joy-feast. Needless to say 
that their plans met with some oppo
sition from the Sophs, however, after 
waiting till eight o'clock for the ar
rival of those Plebes who had been 
tied up by . the Sophs early in the af
ternoon the banquet went forward as 
planned. Pending the arrival of the 
late-comers, : those there on time 
passed the time getting acquainted 
and enjoying the music provided by a 
peppy orchestra. After downing the 
steak dinner provided by the hotel, 
the Plebes carried out a lively speak
ing program with Prof. H. K. Kirk= 
pati;ick as toastmaster. Dean Motj 
spoke on What the Public Thinks of 
the Engineer, Dean Bossange on Im
portance of Art Education1, and Dean 
Morris on the Industrial Needs of 
Education. Tommy Griggs, the "Papa 
of the Plebes was on hand and gave 
his ideas on Plebe spirit. Smokes 
(Continued on Page Four.)
Short Course Association 
to Hold Rally on Jan. 22
Duo to sickness on the executive 
staff of the Short Course Association 
very little has been done in the way 
of making this organization a booster.
But in Room 104 Industries, at 4:30 
Monday, January 22, a rally will be 
held which will last only about twenty 
minutes. Mr. Strizzi, the president, 
particularly desires the presence of 
all new men as it will soon be their 
duty to take over the responsible po
sitions in this organization.
Also the plans for a smoker and 
dance which are to be pulled off short
ly are to be discussed and the com
mittees which have been appointed 
will give a detailed report of the work 
which has to date been accomplished. 
Everybody is urged to be out and to 
be on time so that the meeting can 
be pulled off with the usual pep.
Many of the students who received 
work through the Employment Bureau 
during the Christmas vacation have 
not yet reported the amount of their 
earnings. If the students are to re
ceive the aid of the bureau, this infor
mation must be turned in. Those who 
have not yet done so are requested 
to turn it in as soon as Dossible.
This information is necessary to 
the .Employment Uurpau so that its 
records of student earnings may be 
complete and also to show how the 
bureau is helping students?
FOOTBALL FILM 
IS RELEASED AT 
CAMERAPHONE
MUSIC DEPARTMENT OF FINE 
ARTS COLLEGE WILL GIVE 
RECITAL NEXT SUNDAY P. M.
WOMENS PROM FRI. 
AT HOTEL SCHENLEY
Helen Johnson to Lead Grand 
March. Dancing to Con
tinue Till 2 o'clock
Friday night, January li), the 
women of the Junior classes of Car
negie Tech will hold their annual 
Junior Prom in the Hotel Schenley 
ball room. The final tickets went on 
sale Monday. All preliminary tickets 
should be turned in before Friday 
evening.
Art Giles' Orchestra has been se
cured for this event. . The grand 
march which is scheduled for 9 
oclock will be led by Helen Johnson 
and O. B. Newman, followed by Jane 
Markell, president of the Margaret 
Morrison Junior Class, and J. R. Reed. 
Dancing will continue until 2 oclock, 
with a short intermission at midnight 
when dinner will be served.
Favors for both men and women 
have been designed and ordered, al
though their nature is a deep secret 
they are sure to be appropriate.
The committee is composed of: 
Blair Jessop, general chairman; Hel
en Johnson and Thelma Leatherman, 
decorations and programs; Elinor 
Wilt and Frances McClymonds, re
freshments; Grace Sheriff, favors; 
Elinor Riefmyer, music.
The list of patronesses has been 
announced as follows: Mrs. Ray
mond E. Bossnnge, Mrs. A. W. Tarbell,' 
Miss Mary B. Breed, Miss Mary 
Louise Brown, Mrs. John L. Porter, 
Mrs. E. M. Vernorcken, Mrs. W. K. 
Markell, Mrs. Chas. M. Smith, Mrs. 
John L. Jessop.
Miss Emilie Ray Bowman, class ad
visor, will be a guest of the class.
Margaret Morrison Glee Club 
Gives First Concert of Year
The first  of a series or concerts 
was given by the M. M. Glee Club in 
the Munhall High School Auditorium. 
Munhall, Pa., last Friday evening. In 
addition to the several numbers glve5a byi the club there wero two num
bers by the Stringers, a selection by 
the double quartet made up of club 
members and a reading.
The program was as follows:
Alma Mater 
Dreaming
Glee Club 
Are You Playing Fair?
Stringers 
Indian Mountain Song
Double Quartet 
Say It While Dancing 
% Stringers 
Selected Reading
Bess Johnson 
INTERMISSION 
Spanish Dance (pUaio soLo)
Lenorc Davies 
It Is Up* to You (piano duet) 
Lenore DaviesMargaret Coombs 
Murmuring Zephyrs
Glee Club
Romany Love
Stringers 
CantataThe Lady of Shalot 
Glee Club 
Dear Old Tech
Combined Clubs.
The soprano solo part in the can
tata was taken by Miss Eleanor 
Mecklenburg. The whole perform
ance was very entertaining and it is 
hoped that succeeding ones will bejust, as successful.
M. M. SENIORS DISCUSS
PLANS FOR COMING BALL
The Senior Class of M. M. held a 
meeting Thursday, January 11, to dis
cuss the plans for the Senior ball 
which will be held April G. The 
ball, this year, will not be a one 
school affair as the girls of the Arts 
College will combine with the M. M. 
girls in making the affair a success. As 
planned, the ball will be a dinnerdance to be held at the University 
Club.
Reports of committee collecting 
funds for the Parry Memorial Fund 
were made by the chairman.
POST-BALL DANCE TO BE
HELD IN FOYER FEB. 10
The third annual post-ball dance 
will be held in the Foyer, February 
10, from nine to one. It has been 
the custom, for the past two years, to 
give the students of the other schools 
aside from those in the College of 
Fine Arts, the privilege of enjoying 
the decorations for the Arts Ball by 
holding a dance the night following 
the ball. This year the Foyer of the 
Arts building will be decorated with 
Egyptian Heiroglyphics and Pyramids, 
and will furnish a novel setting for 
this dance. As this dance is run as a 
(Continued on Page Two.)
Movies of Skibo Football 
Team in Action Last Fall 
to Be Shown Week of Jan. 
22. Students Must Co-oper
ate
1,000 TICKETS FOR SALE
There has been much said about the 
football movies, but here is the abso
lute, final and authentic dope. There 
are three reels of film, taken at the 
games which Carnegie Tech played 
last fall and showing the Plaid war
riors in action* at all the games that 
were played. Arrangements have 
been made with the Cameraphone 
theater in East Liberty, so that the 
three reels of film will be run at every 
show there during the week of the 
twenty-second. The football pictures 
are an added attraction to two good 
programs which would be almost cer
tain to attract a crowd per'se. Start
ing Monday, January 22, the program 
will be Bessie Love and Garreth 
Hughes in "Forget Me Not, and the 
football films. This program will 
continue through Tuesday and Wed
nesday nights, and on Thursday a 
new feature will be supplied. Viola 
Dana will be shown in "Love in the 
Dark. You all know Vi and it is use
less as well as hopeless to describe 
her charming ways, etc., etc. . The 
football movies will be discontinued 
on Saturday night and will not be 
shown any more in Pittsburgh.
One of our alumni, Mr. William Finkel ,who is now with the Quality Film 
Corporation, and Mr. Kester, the "man
ager of the Cameraphone, have co op
erated with the athletic authorities Jn 
the production of these films and it is 
through the efforts of the former that 
the pictures were .taken, and through 
the kindness of the latter that the 
films will be shown. Mr. Kester lias 
consented to show the films on the 
guarantee of the school that one thou
sand students and alumni would go to 
see the films. In order to help the 
school on that guarantee, buy your 
tickets at the Alumni office. The price 
is the same as usual, and all tickets 
sold at the school will be credited to 
us and help to get next years big 
games in movies. Few of us will be 
able to see the big game with Chi
cago, but "Is there a Stude with a 
soul so dead ,tliat he never to himself 
(Continued on Page Three)
STEELE PROPERTY NOW 
CLEARED FOR NEW GYM
The new gym has been brought a 
step nearer completion by the removal 
of the old red house on the Steele 
property. Tho tenants vacated early 
last week leaving tho empty house 
which has so rapidly been romoved.
Mr. Orbin sold the house and con
tents to a Pittsburgh contractor who 
will probably utilize the lumber to 
build garages and hence robbed us of 
the bonfire suggested by some of tho 
Pittsburgh newspapers.
The plans are almost finished, only 
a few technical details are still con
fronting Architect Hornbostel. At the 
rate the .work is progressing and if 
everything goes well, ground should 
be broken by the beginning of Febru
ary. At last the gym seems nearer 
realization than the song book and 
distinctive Senior dress.
A recital will be given by the stu
dents of the Department of Music in 
tho College ol Fine Arts on Sun
day, January 21 at S:15 p. in., prob
ably in the Little Theater. Everyone 
desiring to attend is welcome and will 
Gnd the program worth while: 
Ultra-Modern Program.
1. Plzzetti. Sonata in A for Piano 
and Violin
Tempestoso 
Molto Largo 
Vive e fresco 
Gertrude R. Dodds, Marie Kleyle
2. Schoenberg. Sechs Kleine Klavierstuecke, Op. 19
Oscar L. Helfenbein
3. Goosens. Sonata for Violin and 
Piano, Op. 21
Allegro con nnima 
Molto adagio 
Con brio
Max Silverman, Oscar L. Helfenbein
ELECTRICAL DEPT. 
TO HOLD SMOKER
Prof. B. C. Dennison, Master 
of Ceremonies; Varied 
Program Arranged
Tomorrow evening at eight oclock, 
in Room 55 Machinery Hall, Professor
B. C. Dennison will officially open tho 
annual smoker of the Electrical De
partment of the Colleges of Engineer
ing and Industries. Tags of admis
sion went on sale Monday afternoon 
at twenty-five cents each, and the in
tensive selling campaign carried on in 
the various classes shows that the at
tendants at this affair should equal, 
If not surpass, the attendance of last 
years smokor, which marked a rec
ord In entertainments of tills nature.
The chairman of the committee an
nounces that one of the premier at
tractions booked for this ovenlng will 
be the only rival of tho well known 
Eva Fay. Nothing more can bo said 
concerning the exact nature of this 
act, which is guaranteed to be a 
mirth-provoker. There will also be 
movies, music by the successors of 
the famod E. M. F. orchestra, elec
trical stunts never before exhlbltod In 
public, a contest of Imbibing ability 
botweon several of tho classes, and 
among other things, the necessary 
oats and smokes, which the committee 
promises will be highly satisfactory.
This smoker, which is given annu
ally by the Electrical Departments, Is 
one of tho two social events planned 
solely forstudents in tho electrical 
courses. Tho other event, tho annual 
banquot of the A. I. E. E.,. will not bo 
held tills yoar until late in the season. 
It behooves all oloctrlcals thorofore, 
to turn out en masse, and support this 
smoker givon for tholr own benefit. 
In ordor that tho moro serious side 
may not bo omitted, the committee is 
also planning to secure a well known 
speaker, not connocted with Carnogle 
Tech, to givo a short talk on some 
portlnont subject. With a program as 
varied, and as extonslvo as tho one 
mapped out for tomorrow- evening, no 
electrical can afford to bo counted ab
sent.
Freshmen of tho Colleges of Indus
tries and of Engineering who Intend 
taking the electrical course' are also 
invited to attend, and to become ac
quainted with some of the men In 
their.department with whom they will 
.be associated in later years.
M. M. A. A.. FORMS PLANS 
FOR INTER-MURAL LEAGUE
Belgian Fellowships Open 
to College Graduates of U. S.
An educational fund established in 
connection with the Commission for 
Relief in Belgium announces a limited 
number of American graduate fellow
ships for study in Belgium during 
the academic year 1923-24, to be award
ed April 1, 1L23. Fellowships are of
fered in Civil, Electrical and Mining 
Engineering, Organic Chemistry and 
Psychologyopen to men and wom
en.
Each fellowship carries a cash sti
pend of 12,000 francs plus tuition 
fees, and first-class traveling expen
ses from residences or holder in the 
United States to and from the Uni
versity in Belgium.
Further information can be secured 
from Dean Tarbell.
SENIOR WOMEN PREPARING
PLANS FOR ANNUAL BALL
Although a little early, the Senior 
girls of Margaret Morrison and De
sign, have commenced working on 
plans for the annual Senior Ball. The 
committees have been appointed and 
things Sf*em to bo coming along very 
well. The date is the sixth of April, 
the place is the University Club, and 
the orchestra. The Collegiate Six.
Unlike those of the pas I, this one 
promises to be different. It is to bo 
in the form of a dinner dance, inter
mingled with cabaret stunts. Some 
interesting things are being planned, 
and all the Senior girls are looking 
forward to something which should, 
and.will be a big social success.
The M. M. Athletic Association held 
a meeting Friday in the M. M. Assem
bly room. A discussion of the plan 
for an intra-mural basket ball league 
to resemble the mens Inter-fraternity 
league resulted in plans being made 
for the formation of a league to con
sist of teams from the dorms, the 
town girls, and commuters.
The Association is going to hold a 
dinner rally in the near future to 
boost athletics, and plans for this af
fair were also discussed.
The class basket ball teams are 
holding their regular practices with 
plenty of girls trying out for the cov
eted positions. The varsity team is to 
be picked from the girls trying out 
for the class teams.
The M. M. girls have the use of the 
Schenley Pool on Mondays at 4 p. m., 
and many of the M. M. girls are tak
ing an active part in this sport. Teams 
are being organized and a swimming 
meet will be held in the spring.*
TEA WILL BE SERVED IN 
THE LITTLE HOUSE
SATURDAY, 3 TO 5 P. M.
JUNIOR PROM 
PRELIM. SALE 
TO CLOSE SOON
Attendance Will Be Limited 
to Two Hundred Fifty Cou
ples. Nelson Maples Orches
tra Will Furnish the Music
DATEFRIDAY, FEB. 2
REPORT OF STUD. GOV'T.
COUNCIL TO BE GIVEN
AT M. M. C. ASSEMBLY
A very important discussion will 
bo carried on in tho M. M. Assembly 
today and the assembly officers are 
very anxious that all M. M. girls 
should bo 011 hand. The report of the 
representatives to the Student Gov
ernment Council Inter-colleglato moot 
at Randolph-Macon Colleges will be 
made. Dorothy Grant and Peg 
Coombs represented M\ M. at tho 
conference.
A discussion of the honor system. 
especially in regard to quiet during 
exam periods will be held.
The sale of the preliminary tickets 
for the Junior Prom will probably be 
closed this week. The student quota 
will undoubtedly be exhausted by Fri
day, that is if the pasteboards are 
purchased at the same rate as last 
week. The committeo checked the 
number already sold on Saturday, and 
found that only seventy-five tickets 
are unpurchased. All upperclassmen 
who have not received their tickets 
are urged to purchase them at once.
Only two hundred and fifty couplos 
will be admitted to tho Prom this 
year. The Schenley ball room will 
not comfortably accommodato more 
than that number. 1 and the dining 
room facilities are. also limited. The 
committee feels that the limitation on 
the number is regarded favorably by 
the student body.
The announcement that the Nelson 
Maple Orchestra has been secured for 
the Junior Prom has causod much fa
vorable comment. Tho organization 
is undoubtedly one of tho boSt In tills 
section. They have been secured by 
a number of the large universities In 
the East for their annual dances. The 
committee is positive that no bettor 
music could have been obtained.
The favors liavo been selected and 
they will arrive in Pittsburgh a week 
before the Prom. Tho number is just 
equal to the quota of tho tickets 
placed on sale. The favors and tho 
programs will be distributed imme
diately nfter tho Grand March.
The oomniiltteo has decided that 
corsages should not ho worn. This 
action is in keeping with tho policy 
of previous years. Invitations to tho 
patrons and patronossos have boon 
mailed.
The day of tho Prom Is not far dis
tant. All thoso who lntond to go 
should get their preliminary tlokot at 
once. A delay In purchasing the tlclu 
et may causo considerable disappoint
ment.
Don't forgot tho date, February 2,
1923. The Schonloy Iiotol will bo tho 
host and tho Nolson Maples Orchostra 
will furnish tho music. Tho Informa
tion on tho salo of tho final tickets 
will appoar In tho noxt. Issuo or tho 
Carnogle Tartan,
SCHOOL REDUCES 
COMMONS PRICES
THISTLE CAMPAIGN 
CLOSES THIS FRIDAY
Thistle sales campaign will continue 
until this Friday, January If. Tho 
board 1s compollod to oxtond tho time, 
due to the lack of support of tho stu
dent body:
A certain number of coplos must bo 
sold, so as to mako it solf-supportlng, 
At least twolvo hundred copies must 
bo sold by January 19. So far only 
nine hundred subscriptions liavo boon 
turned In. Out of the twenty-five hun
dred day students enrollod, tho nine 
hundretl copies .sold is a very small, 
portion.
The layout and make-up'thisyear, 
as in previous years, is under tho su
pervision of the editor-in-chief. Ho 
assumes the entire responsibility of 
(Continued on Page Three.)
Musical Clubs Announce List 
of Concerts For Ohio Trip
Next Friday evening the Mens 
Glee and Mandolin Clubs Journey to 
Mayview wnere their first concert of 
the season will be given.
This concert, which begins the 
schedule each year, is in the nature 
.of a trial concert and the following 
week the clubs will go to Tarentum.
The first half of the season in
cludes a four-day trip through Ohio.
The schedule for the first half of 
the season follows:
Friday, January 19Mayview.
Thursday, February 8Tarentum.
Friday, February 16New Kensing
ton.
Wednesday, February 21Orville, 
Ohio.
Thursday, February 22 - Akron, 
Ohio.
Friday, February 23Cleveland, 
Ohio.
Saturday, February 24  Elyria, 
Ohio.
We havent had many opportunities 
this fall to have a real chat together 
there were too many details to at
tend to . at tho Christmas party and 
tho Bake iSale, and, or course, no one 
expects to 'vJsjt at a theater party 
so let us have a wonderful turnout 
for our tea next Saturday, January 
20'from three to five.
We are to be honored by having 
with us Miss Breed, Miss Mary Louise 
Brown, and Miss Abbott to "pour. 
The hostess is Mary L. Williams and 
the aids are Helen Anderson Rush, 
Jane Caldwell Harrold, Genevieve 
Cushwa, Elizabeth Stevenson, Mildred 
Knapp. Laura Kramer McKnlght, and 
Ellen Speers.
MISS WHITE ELECTED PRE8.
OF M. M. FRE8HMEN CLA88
As a result of the election held 
by the Margaret Morrison Freshmen, 
the following class officers wore elect* 
J ed: . ..
PresidentBarbara White.
Vice PresidentMargaret Nelson.
' SecretarySara Williams.
I TreasurerMargaret Carson.
! Society ChairmanLillian CunnlngI ham.
Senate Representative  Margaret 
| Kaufman.
j At a recent meeting of tho class 
the payments of dues was urged In 
I order that the assessment for the 
j All-Freshman dance might be met.
Ten Per Cent Reduction Has 
Been Effected Without 
Sacrificing Quality
It was one of tho promises of tho 
school whon It took over the opera
tion of tho Campus Cafeteria that re
duced prices would bo ono of their 
foremost considerations. This lias 
been dono as much as possible, taking 
into consideration the quality and 
quantity of food served. While a re
duction in tho prices charged was 
wanted, It was not desired at tho ex
penso of tho type and class of the 
food. That Miss Woodward and Miss 
Smith liavo kept this in mind can bo 
shown by tho comparison prlco list 
printed bolow. A meal or two oaton 
at the Commons will convince anyone 
that tho quality and quantity are of 
tho host.
Miss Woodward, who is a grad
alo of Simmons College, Boston, is 
gradually getting accustomed to hor 
surroundings and tho wants of tho 
students. After getting moro so, she 
promises some Innovations in meals 
at tho Carnoglo Commons, which will 
provo Interesting to tho students.
A bulletin board, Is to bo Installed 
In tho building, upon which will bo 
placed facts, purposing to aid tho stu
dents in careful and thrifty 'selection 
of nioals.
Lunoh and Dinner.
Com- Bonnmons ory
All soups ...................................07 ,10
Hot Roasts (voal, pork, 
hoof, mutton, lamb, ham ,20 .25-20 
Stows, hash, croamod
(Continued on Pago Four)
Varsity and Plbe Squads 
Reccive Football Insignia
At tho gonoral assembly last 
Wednesday, Mr. Frank Lanalmn 
awarded tho varsity football lottors to 
tho moil WOMEN distinguished thornsolves on tho gridiron during tho sea
son Just complotod. Mr. Lnnahan dis
played no lack of tho proper tech
nique under I lie circumstances and 
not only made tho spectators laugh, 
but also oxhlbltod rare Judgment In 
making oach horo display his hand
some countonanco to the admiring 
M. M.s, who wore present in full 
force.
The following mon wore awarded 
the Varsity "C.": Captain Anderson.
Brumbaugh, Comfort, Gllbort, Goddon, 
Irwin, Lamb, Moran, Newman, Potter, 
,Robevtson, Rosonbloom, Captain-elect 
Sprinkle, Zelt, Taylor, Christoff, and 
Wolrman.
Numerals were also awarded to tho 
men on tho Freshman squad. Mr, 
Lanahan presented tho following 
men with tholr class lnslgnl: Annins,
Beede, Campbell, Christoff, Cook, Kra
mer, McCarthy, Morgan, Molirman, 
Predmoroi Reid, Schell, Van Atta, 
Cass, Daniels and Bowers. Manager 
L. L. Ferrall was given a minor C.
SENIOR ESSAYS 
RECEIVE FEW 
HONOR GRADES
Electricals, Editor-Secretary 
Physicists, and Science (M 
M.) Do Exceptionally Well 
With Difficult Assignments
RESULTS ONLY FAIR
The essays written by the Senior 
classes of the various colleges liavo 
been graded and a report on tho re
sults turned in by tho head of tho 
Department of English. Tho themes 
were written between the first and 
fifteenth of Novomber, turned over to 
the English Department and graded 
by six of the most experienced teach
ers of that department. Each essay 
Avas read by two readers and wero 
marked on tho following basis: A
and B indicated distinguished work; 
C indicated satisfactory work; D, 
work unsatisfactory but not poor 
onough to cause failure and F indi
cated work of failure quality..
Tho tliomes wero written in tho 
Senior classes of the College of En
gineering, tho College of Fine Arts, 
tho College of Industries and tho Mar
garet Morrison College, a total of 219 
Seniors taking part.
With tho oxeoption of tho Secre
tarial and Editor-Secretary coursos In 
Margaret Morrison, which are of 
courso primarily Interested In expres
sion, tho Electrical Engineering Sen
iors carrlod off high honors, 40 por 
c6nt of tholr grades bolng honor 
grades. The students In Drama In 
tho College of Flno Arts also rocolved 
<10 per cont honor grades but the re
port In commending on the relative 
dogroo of the various themes saya In 
part: "Sfubjocts particularly difficult to 
write upon Avoro assigned by tho De
partments 01' Eloctrlcal Engineering, 
Physics, Edltor-Socvotary, and Sclonco (M.M.) Subjects particularly 
easy Avoro assigned by tho Depart
ments of Drama, Physical Education, 
and Household Economies.
In tho following table or chart tho 
riumboi" of students In each depart
ment taking part and the porcont 
honor grades are sliOAvn:
Enulnoerlnq
Students PorCont 
Talcing Honor 
Part Gradou
Chemical Eng.................. U ES
Civil IQng........................... 13 Mi
Commercial Eng............ 23 .1H
Electrical Eng................ 25 .-10
Mechanical Eng............. 31 .0
Metal and Min. Eng... 20 .20
Physics ........................... 1 1.00
Flno Arto
Applied Art. .................. 12 .21
Architecture .................. 2!) .21
(Continued on Page 'iMiroo)
A. I. E. E. Views Film 
On Canned Electricity
Mr. Pitzer Gives Talk on Me
ters and Metering
PNEUMONIA TAKES DON F.
BURLEY, ENG. FRESHMAN
Donald Franklin Burley, Mechanic
al Engineering Freshman, nineteen 
years old, died early Saturday morn
ing at the home of his sister, Mrs. 
H J. Spuhler, Jr., of pneumonia. Bur
leys home Avas in GermantoAvn, Phil
adelphia, where he had a large num
ber of friends.
Burley started his career at Carne
gie Tech in a most promising man
ner in that he had succeeded in go(Continued on Paco Threol
Tho regular muchly meeting ot 
the Carneglo 'J.Vwh Branch of tho A-. 
1. E. E. waff held last Thursday even
ing In Room 218, Science Building. It 
was perhaps the most successful anol 
largost attended meeting held thife 
school yoar.
Tho program begun Avlth a showtfife 
of tho film "Canned Electricity. Thla 
film has been prepared by the Nation
al Carbon Company to illustrate tho 
manufacture and uses of dry cells, 
and Avas secured through the courtesy 
of Mr. Turnock. A striking feature 
In the manufacture of dry cells la 
the large number of operations Avhich 
are automatic. The cells in various 
stages of completion are moved from 
one department to another by means 
of moving belts. The various opera
tions such as labeling, etc., are dona 
as the cell moves pasi the Avorkman.
The feature of the evening Avas the 
reading of a paper on Electric Meters, 
by Mr. Pitzer of the West Penn Power 
Company. Mi-. Pitzer not only has an 
(Continued on Pape Four.)
Barney Google and Sparky Here;
Our Greatest Triumph of the Year
By T. S. Repplier.
(Writer protected by W, J. Burns 
Detective Bureau)
A groat and irrefutable proof of 
the growing fame of Carnogle Toch 
was evidenced last Thursday, Avhon 
tho Institution Avas honored by a 
visit from Mr. Barney Google, world 
famous owner of tho equine wonder, 
Spark Plug. Never boforo have tho 
students of any collego boon glvon 
the exclusive privilege of examining 
personally Mr, Google's renowned 
race horse, and that they were al
lowed to do so Is in itself a marvelous 
tribute to the school.
A Triumphal Rcccptlon,
Early last Thursday the neAvs 
leaked out about the campus that Mr. 
Google was making a special run up 
from New Orleans, Avhere. Snarjc Plug 
la to run in the Abadaba Handicap, 
in order to viait Carnegie Tech and
work out the four logged lightning on 
Schenley Oval, instantly tho nows 
spread to tho four corners of tho 
lampus. A committee Avas appointed 
which appointed a committee, and 
preparations set under way for Mr. 
Googles reception. Tremendous en
thusiasm Avas everywhere ovinced, 
and the P. I. department at one 
prepared a large sign bearing tho 
words, "Welcome Spark Plug, Goda 
Gift to tho Racing World," to bo hung 
botweon Langley Lab and the Cen
tral Building. Little girls from Mar
garet Morrison and the Arts volun
teered by the hundreds to dance be
fore Mr. Google in flowing robes, sc8,ttering flowers in his path, and tho 
band conductor equipped his aggre
gation with tho "Livery Stable Blues, 
in Mr. Googles honor. The Forgo 
Department at once busied themselves 
in the construction of a tremendous 
(Continued on Page Three.)

---------------------------------------------------

PAGE TWOTHE CARNEGIE TARTANWEDNESDAY, JANUARY 17, 1923
Published every week by undergraduates of the Carnegie Instituto of
Technology under the supervision of the Student Activities Board.___________
ffinlfcred In the Postonico of Pittsburgh JS socond'las matter^
iSTOa H. STROMQUIST ................................................................. Bditor-ln-Chlef
TelephoneIlliand 858.
'L . SONNE MA NN.............................................................................. Business Manager
TelephoneSehenloy 1)211
SSDW. A. BRAND....................................................................................... Managing Editor
TelephoneSchenley 914.'i
KENNETH ARNOLD..............................................................................Associate Editor 1
W. y. SIMPSON ......................................................................................... Associate Editor,
TelephoneSchenley 9143
231 V. METER ...................................................................................................... Nows Editor
TelephoneHazel 9398
38. J. MAUST ........................................................................................................ News Editor
TelephoneIluzel 9422
.TH. H. "WILSON...................................................................................................Athletic Editor
ToleplionoHazel D3G0
UL I* HAY........................................................................................................... Photographer
JR. li. KELLER ........................................................................................... Exchange Editor
K. P. OOSE, .TR..........................................................................................,.............Art Editor
T. S. JlKPPLIfilR............................................................................................. Special Writer
J. K. MATTER.................................................................................................. Spoetai Writer
Samuel Smith Keller
HORNBOSTEL WRITES new students to be 
OF COMMONS START I admitted in February
IH. COOPER ................................................................................... Advertising Manager
TelephoneSchenley 9211
J/. C. MAJOR....................................................................................... Circulation Manager
TelephoneSchenley 0102
EDITORIAL ASSISTANTS 
P. C. McKenzie, L. Hertzman, M. S. Downos, P. C. Smith, L. Byerly, W. 
K. KTjppard, F. D. Rossini, W. Winning, F. T. Phelps, Catherine Meyers.
ATHLETIC CONTRIBUTORS 
33. C. Frazier, J. H. Forguson.
BUSINESS ASSISTANTS 
K. Sowors, W. B. Cunningham, P. F. Schlicker, T. J. DompHey, J. B. 
Kndig, I). MoHkovItz, J. W. Metro, P. W. Reilly, R. It. Young1 and H. Glbsoii.
The Editor-In-Chief 1U rospouslhle for the policy of this papor; the 
.Managing Editor for th multo up.
The Tartan welcomes all communications of student Interest, if signed. 
Sigimtiiro will be withhold If desired. All nows items must be In the student 
>uatoiflco before 4:30 Friday.
Tartan OfficeRoom 5-A, Industries Builuing. 
31:30 to 1:00, Wednesday, 12:00 to 1:00.
WHAT IS WRONG?
Office hoursTuesday,
A vciy interesting speech on the economic conditions of the 
stations oC Europe, us affectSg our own financial problems was de
livered in a forceliul oration by a United Ejtates senator at assembly 
Bast week, but only a small percentage of the student body was there 
IRPH derive the benefit. This is a deplorable state oi! affairs, for the 
authorities go to a lot of trouble and expense to bring these men here 
lo benefit the students, and in return many men and women of this 
institution will not give their time to attend the assembly. These 
gatherings are not conducted for no reason at all, but for si real pur
pose, that being to bring the student body together so that they may 
Ihcar something about what the world, oil* the campus, is doing. It 
is n disgrace to bring a prominent man here to talk to an audience 
ais small as attended last assembly, imagine the impression that one 
Must carry away under the circumstances. Let us hope that there 
wiH he an improvement for the sake of Carnegie.
LEAVE THEM ALONE
When posters are put about the campus they are there for ad
vertising and should not be stolen to decorate some room in the 
dormitories or fraternity houses. Any student who takes these 
placards down is not only showing lack of principle, but in addition 
is counteracting the efforts of some loyal individuals to promote 
some worthy proposition for the benefit of their follow students. 
jftlo there is a lot; of work on some postors and the makers would 
2Qu> to have them returned so that they may be presented for credit 
nr .kept as evidence of their ability.
THE THISTLE SITUATION
The Thistle is the finest record one can have.of the school and 
'.its nativities; a book that boeomos more valuable with time; no bet
ter investment could bo made for future ro Peroneo of Carnegie dur 
ug sojourn here, A lot of pleasure will be derived from looking over 
the hunch and the campus in years to como. This year the sales 
iftmvu fallen below normal and therefore an appeal is made to the stu 
tants to buy a Thistle immediately so that wo can be assured of a 
Lieti er book. The last sales campaign has boon oxtoildod almost t< 
the limit and unless an order is placed now it will mean that the 
nrttor must go in for a smaller number than usual and consequently 
,n book below standard.
AN EXCLUSIVE DANOE
The Junior Prom is acclaimed the most important social event of 
n student college career; no one should go through school without at 
lending at least onee. Anyone who is eligible and does not go should 
have a mighty good reason beeauso it is part of a college education
MOVIES OF THE TEAM
Next week the Carnegie football team will be seen in action in 
moving pictures, this is an innovation here and should be supported 
hy the student body. II! this venture proves a success this year it 
ivill be tried again. Tickets will be sold on the campus and cveryliody is expected to buy one.
A patriarch In the qrowth of Carnegie Tech, associated with 
It even before ground was broken for the erection of the build
ings, Professor Samuel S. Keller, in passing away brings to 
hearts of those who have been connected with the school, not 
only a humanistic feeling of sorrow but a realization of the 
deprivation that Carneglo Tech has suffered.
Those who knew him as a scholar, an astronomer, a mathe
matician arc far out-numbered by the many who knew him as a 
man. The remembrance of his wonderful personality will live 
long. Faculty and students alike had In him a sincere friend 
and with bowed headswith sorrowing hearts, mourn his pass
ing.
Relates How Work Was 
Done, of Rejecting Krazy 
Kats and Why Kilties Won
COMMENTS
AFTER USTHE DELUGE
It Is a custom from the time when 
u man's mind runneth not the con
trary for The Curnoglo Turtun to give 
an unnual wurning to students aibout 
the almost universal practice of noglocting studies until the lust few 
days before flnul exumlnutlons und 
then trying to muke up lost time by 
cramming. Being u strong believer 
in perpetuating traditions and also 
to tell the sud news and have it over 
with, The Carnegie Turtan desires to 
unnouuce ihut only slightly over one 
(?) week sepurutes students from the 
Iutoful deluge of flnul exumlnutlons. 
Now that mid-terms ure over, most 
students ure probubly breathing eusy 
und looking forward to several weeks 
of rest. Cramming during the lust 
week or so muy get one through 
exums, and uguin it may not do so; 
ut the most It in rather a risky meth
od. Some of the boys and girls in 
the mid-term flunk aggregation will 
testify to that.
Seriously, however, whether u stu
dent applies himself to his studies 
reguluriy und metlipdlcully, or de
pends on cramming, It is simply u 
question of oneB purpose in coming 
to Curnegie Tech ut all. If one 
comes to the institution merely to 
pass the exumlnutlons and to get 
credit for the work, then the cram
ming und boning method muy be ude 
quato und sufficient in the majority 
of cuses. If one is here, however, to 
acquire knowledge and to benefit him
self 'intellectually, cramming will be 
found to be wholly inadequate Lo 
servo that purpose. A brain retains 
little of the facts that' are packed 
Into it at the last moment. The really 
earnest student will find that steady 
regular studying Is the only road to 
mental development.
ROAMINS
In spite of that fact that 'Carnegie 
Tech has a M.ilitury Department und 
u large number of students enrolled 
In the R. O. T. C., the flug was 
pluced ut "half-must" lust week on 
the occuslon of the deuth of u mem
ber ot the faculty in such a manner 
as to warrant "court martial" as one 
student put it.
Perhaps Roamer is wrong, but he 
believes the official position of the 
top of the flag at half mast should 
be the width of the flag below the 
top ot the flag staff.
How about it Military Department?
Well, it looks as if we would have 
a new gym. Did you see them raz
ing the old Colonial relic on the new 
gym site? Yes, sirbut dont at
tempt to hold your breath until the 
structure is completed.
An enthusiastic fan from the Col
lege of Fine Arts expresses his dis
approval of Roam^rs All Arts foot
ball team. Cheer lip, Mister. It 
grieves us considerably to thing that 
we could not place more men on tills 
selection, but vou know space is lim
ited, and there are only eleven men 
on the team; aid you try Eckersall 
or Camp?
Please use discretion when you are 
planning your costume for the Arts 
Ball. As Dean Brown says: "Protect 
yourself from drafts."
Now, as we have performed our 
traditional duty, wo may, in the 
words of our friend, Androw Gump, 
shout: "Oli, Min!"
Student Calendar
I ---------------------
WEDNESDAY, JANUARY 17
IDramaYoure Next..............................................8:15, Arts Theater
'Student Assemblies
College of Engineering.....................................11:30, 208 Science
College of Fine Arts................................ .....11:30, Arts Theater
 Margaret Morrison College...............................11:30, M. M. C. C.
College of Industries.....................................12:30, 104 Industries
' - THURSDAY, JANUARY 18
Drama Youre Next..............................................8:15, Arts Theater
Sflfcapel.......................1...........................1......................12:50, Arts Theater
5anfl Practice..........................................................7:00, Carnegie Union
FRIDAY, JANUARY 19
DramaYoure Next.................................................4:00, Arts Theater
SternaYoure Next..............................................8:15, Arts Theater
DanceWomans Junior Prom.........................9:00, Hotel Schenley
Basket BallCarnegie vs. Geneva..............8:30, Carnegie Field House
SATURDAY, JANUARY 20
lirtnua44Youre Noxt..............................................8:15, Arts Theater
Basket BallCarnegie vs. W. Va,...:..........8:30, Carnegie Field House
DanceI). A. V. W. W......................................9:00, Carnegie Union
SUNDAY, JANUARY 21
.Musical Clubs(lice Club.......................................2:30, Art Exhibition
Mandolin Club............................2:30, Curnegie Union
^RecitalDepartment of .Music....................................8:15, Arts Theater
WEEK OF JANUARY 22
3'\>otball Movies.....................................................Cameraphone Theater
TUESDAY, WEDNESDAY, THURSDAY, FRIDAY AND 
SATURDAY, JANUARY 23, 24, 25, 2G AND 27
jftramaYoure Next;..............................................8:15, Arts Theater
(Last two nights reserved for students)
FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 2
DtmccMens Junior Prom..............................9:00, Hotel Schenley
SATURDAY, FEBRUARY 3
Basket BallCarnegie vs. Penn State........8:30, Carnegie Field House
MONDAY, FEBRUARY 5 
.Tflyment of Second Semesters fees.
TUESDAY, FEBRUARY 6
-Classes Resumed.
FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 9
ZDaaeeArts Ball..............................................9 -.00, College of Fine Arts
SATURDAY, FEBRUARY 10 
DoneePost Ball Dance................................................9:00, Arts Foyer
ARTS THEATER
DRAMA DEPARTMENT TO
PRESENT "YOURE NEXT
"Youro Next," a comedy, will bo 
tho noxt public production by the 
l)"ii mi iteh'icM at (urn" 10 lu^j'.ute 
of Tochn,ology lo be given on tho 
ovonlngs of January 17, 18 and 19. A 
mutlnoo In schoditlod for tho 10th.
Tho play was written In the Dra
matic Composition (loss by llurry L. 
Hamilton, a Sophomoro. Mr. Hamil
ton has already had unusual success 
mi a playwright having written sev
eral piocos previously produced at 
Oarnoglo Tech; Including "Ronnys 
Place," "Cokoy, and others. Chostor 
Wallace, Associate Professor In the 
Drama Department, is directing tho 
production.
Several New Books on
Shelves of Hut Library
Fiction
Memoirs of a MidgetWulter De 
lu Mare.
Life and Death of Harroett Frean 
May Sinclair.
Literature.
Plays (Four Series)John Gals
worthy.
Up StreamLudwig Lewisolin.
Soliloquies in England and Latin.
SoliloquiesGeorge iSantayana.
Books of Current Interest.
The New WorldIsaiah H. Bow
man, Ph.D.
The Advertising HandbookS. Ro
land Hall.
The Modern City and Its Govern
mentWilliam Capes.
International Relations  James 
Bryce.
History of the Balkan Peninsula 
Ferdinand Schevill.
Civilization in the United States, an 
Inquest by Thirty AmericansEdited 
by Hnrold E. Stearns.
Now Viewpoints in American His
toryArthur Moler Schleslngor.
Y. M. C. A. NOTES
At tho chapel services tomorrow 
noon, Rev. T. W. W. Duncan, D.D., of 
tho Emory Methodist Episcopal 
Church, will speak to the students 
Rev. Duncan has novor boforo ap
peared on tho campus and should 
thoroforo bo well received, especially 
as ho Is well known in Pittsburgh as 
a very clear thinking and interesting 
preacher.
Swims at tho iSchenley High School 
are being continued as usual. In
struction Is given to beginners and 
gnmes such as water polo are com
monly indulged in. Many students 
are availing themselves of this oppor
tunity and are benefiting considerably 
thereby.
College and business ethics were 
discussed last night at the Senior 
Couusellor-Freshman dinner held in
How about the exams? Yes, how 
about them?
Cheer up, girls. We learn that at 
Buffalo University the Freshman co 
eds are not permitted to wear hair 
nets, oar rings or jewelry of any 
sort; they dare not use powder or 
rougo; and they must not chew gum 
at any time during tho year. Be
sides they must wear arm bands and 
greon lmlr ribbons. And you think 
you aro being oppressed.
the
Do you know that
Barney Google is back 
Unitod States.
Paderewski is almost bald-headed. 
Exams start In two weeks.
Ninety per cent, of the student 
body has missed olghL-thirtles,
Wo ran across a church-going man 
Sunday who to all appearances has 
not attended services and when, con 
fronted on the subjoct he Informed 
us that ho spent so much time locat
ing the over missing collar buttons 
that ho fatted to got ready in time. 
That MS what we call the hoight of 
modesty.
MILITARY DEPARTMENT 
TO ORGANIZE RIFLE TEAM
The following letter was received 
from Mr. Ilornbostel by the editor: 
To the Editor of The Tartan,
Carnegie Institute of Technology.
Dear Sir:
Having seen your comment in The 
Tartan regarding the new Commons 
and having read with pleasure those 
lines wiiich refer to myself as well 
known architect and noted designer 
I take this opportunity lo thank you 
for your flattering, and also to de
scribe just a little of how the thing 
was accomplished.
Called into consultation by Mr. 
Frank Orbin, patron of the arts and 
so-called business manager of the 
Technical Schools, and also by 
Colonel Fairley, the man who made 
the campus beautiful, I went to the 
beanery accompanied by Robert W. 
Schmertz, one of my draftsmen, who 
learned his architecture working on 
that very amusing paper, the Puppet. 
On looking at the beanery we decid
ed that something must be done. We 
must do something to wipe out the 
memories of athletic cooking and 
Doctor Esquerres calories, so we de
cided to paint it. Colonel Fairley 
wanted it a ruby red. Mr. Orbin 
wanted it a pale lavender. We want
ed it yellow and brown; so we decid
ed to paint it yellow and brown. 
Schmei'tz wanted to paint Krazy 
Kats and Barney Googles all over the 
windows, but we finally quieted him 
down and convinced him that Ru'be 
Goldberg might not have been an 
architest.
Mr. Orbin suggested painting the 
floor and here a dandy idea struck us. 
Why not paint every other square, 
thereby getting a tessellated effect, 
and only painting half the floor. We 
all agreed that this was a bully 
scheme. After it was painted the 
painters played hop-scotch all over 
the floor and almost struck when 
Colonel Fairley ordered ,them back 
to work.
Schmertz departed to make some 
designs and I saw him later at the 
Charity Ball gathering inspiration. As 
he saw me also we both agreed not 
to say anthing about it. Neither of 
us appearing for a day or so and Mr. 
Orbin was very agitated and was seen 
in his office telephoning furiously; 
Mr. Burry holding icepacks to his 
head. His fears were unfounded, 
however, for his designs were soon 
painted by the Colonels Michael An
gelos, and Mr. Orbin by his charm 
induced several admirable' ladies to 
make curtains.
The transformation was amazing. 
Dr. Baker said when he saw it: 
"Bully! I would eat there myself if 
my presendential duties jvere not so 
arduous.
Colonel Church said: Allow me
to commend, you on behalf of the 
trustees. Have luncheon with me at 
the Duquesne Club.
Bill Pfoutz said: "Fine! I wouldnt
mind eating there, but I never have 
lunch."
Dean Bossange said: Superb!
Tlni outside of the laboratory now 
rivals the Art School."
Mr. Sterr/felt said: "Fine, but no:
as we w'ould do in the Ecole de 
Beaux Arts.
Bert Munhall said: "I will have to 
got them started on the field house.'
Many other favorable comments 
were heard on all sides which is 
very gratifying.
Yours truly,
HENRY HORNBOSTEL.
Last year this school inaugurated 
a policy of admitting Freshmen and 
advanced standing students at the 
beginning of the second semester, 
thus hoping to serve a need which 
had seemed large and urgent on the 
part of high school students gradu 
ating in the mid-year classes. 
Whether it is because this fact is not 
generally known among the students 
for whom this policy is maintained, 
or because most students prefer to 
enter during the regular fall term, it 
is hard to say, but even fewer appli
cations have been received to date 
than last year.
So far the statistics show that 
there has been received a total of 
forty-five applications as against 
fifty-seven a year ago. Of these 
twenty-three have been accepted and 
twenty-two are still pending. The 
students accepted are distributed as 
follows: Arts, five; Science, twelve;
Industries,1 five, and Margaret 
Morrison, one. Last year's quota of 
thirty-two applications accepted at 
this time were distributed as follows: 
Arts, seven; Science, thirteen; Indus
tries, nine; M. M., three. The appli
cations which are Still pending, are 
distriubted thus: Arts, six; Science,
eleven; Industries, two; M. M., one.
DR. FESS SPEAKS 
AT GEN. ASSEMBLY
After-War Problems and 
Their Solution i s 
Subject
"Our present home problems are 
being adjusted without much difficul
ty. The great problem before us to
day is our relationship with the coun
tries of Western Europe. So spoke 
Ohio Senator-elect Simeon D. Fess, 
A.B., A.M., LL.B., LL.D., at the gen
eral student assembly in the Carnegie 
Music Hall, January 10. The Honor
able S. D. Fess. who before his long 
service in the House of Representa
tives was a college executive, gave his
MR. FEEHN SPEAKS 
TO MINING DEPT.
Was Responsible For Placing 
of U. S. Bureau of Mines 
Sub-Division Here
On last Friday afternoon, the min
ing department, held its regular bi
monthly lecture in Room 63. The 
speaker was Mr. Feehn, the supervis
ing inspector, Department of Labor in 
the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania 
and he has charge of this district. Mr. 
Feehn was a mine worker for many 
years, then he was elected the leader 
of the No. 5 district of the United 
Mine Workers of A. and he then be
came very popular among the labor 
leaders, so he left mining and be
came associated with some of the 
other industries in this district.
During his leadership he became 
very well . acquainted with our late 
founder, Andrew Carnegie. It was Mr. 
Feehn who was responsible for this 
sub-division of the United States Bu
reau of Mines being built in this vi
cinity. He was sent to Washington 
and then he persuaded the Senators 
that Pittsburgh needed and also 
offered a fitting location for the Bu
reau.
The subject of his speech was In
dustrial Relations. He said that "it 
is the past history of the mining in
dustry, which is causing so much 
prejudice against it at present. In 
an industry or locality, where the em
ployed dictates the wage rate, the la
bor turnover and dissatisfaction is 
greater, than in a locality (where the 
labor has some power in deciding the 
wage rate. As soon as the American 
public realizes the prevailing condi
tions in the mining industry, they are 
going to regulate the w?age, the price 
of coal and its distribution."
He also touched on the fact that the 
mining engineers are going to be the 
important men in the management 
of labor in this industry. Proper 
handling and management of labor is 
the most important factor in the in
dustry, and can best be remedied by 
creating, a social and religious atmos
phere for the residents in the mining 
town. By so doing the labor turnover 
will be reduced to a minimum.
Director Mott was present at this 
lecture and in closing he made a few 
remarks on the speaker and the fact
Lloutenant Colonel Cunningham 
has issue'd a call for men to enter 
the tryouts for the R. O. T. C. Rille 
Team. The call was answered by a 
number of men last week, and the 
prospects seem, rather bright. - Man 
who made high scores in the regular 
shooting classes last year and the 
year before were given a special no
tice to see the iColonel, and plans 
were- immediately put out for practic
ing on the Rifle Clubs range in the 
Arts Building. At the same time the 
possibilities of constructing a range 
in the basement of the Margaret Mor
rison Building  were discussed and 
thought plausible. Work has been beRev. D. L. Marsh to Address 
Industries Assembly Today
An interesting program has been 
arranged for Industries Assembly for 
today. The Glee Club quartet will en
tertain with a few' numbers and there 
will also be a school orchestra pres
ent.
Rev. David L. Marsh will be the 
principal speaker. Dr. Marsh is an 
interesting lecturer, and is very pop
ular with the young people. He is 
noted for writing a comprehensive
history of the city of Pittsburgh, as 
gun on this project, and the range lwe11 as a few others on social service 
will be completed in a. few wreeks.   ~
In previous years the R. O. T. C 
has met with defeat at the hands of 
the other Senior units of the country, 
and last year Pennsylvania State Col
lege wron the cup for marksmanship. 
With the fact in mind that Penn 
State is an applicant for the rank of 
Class A school in R. o. T. C., it is a 
great problem before the Carnegie 
Tech unit to compete successfully 
with the team which that school will 
produce. Ten men are required for 
the team, and the Colonel wishes to 
have the best ten possible, so the 
number of applicants should be large.
Contrary to the usual feeling of 
amusement at the R. O. T. C. as it 
is expressed by the student body, the 
students should realize that tho unit 
is doing a good pioce of work against 
severo odds, and should try to en
courage It, rather than discourage 
It. Tills contest noods the support 
of tlvo entire student body, morally if 
not actually physically, In order to 
present a favorable showing with the 
other teams of tho country.
POST-BALL DANCE TO BE
HELD IN FOYER FEB.
(Continued from Page One) 
Bpocial favor to the students of the 
other colleges, it is requested that the 
students consider this as a favor and 
attend the dance. As a special incen
tive, the committee has announced 
that Hughes Collegiate Six will play.
the Commons. It was the last meet-, 
ing of the season and was thoroughly 
anjoyable, proving the Senior 'Coun
sellor plan to be a complete success.
work. Incidentally, Dr. Marsh wTas 
mentioned among the candidates for 
the mayor of Pittsburgh at the last 
election.
It is hoped that the attendance con
tinues to improve, making unneces
sary the compulsory attendance of 
assemblies in the second semester.
FresheyetteDid you ever tell a 
girl you loved her before?
FrosliBefore what?McGill Daily.
EDISON MAZDA LAMPS 
At new low prices.
Acorn Storage Battery Co. 
4521 Forbes St., Near Craig St. 
Pittsburgh, Pa.
Phone Schenley 4545.
BUY
A Present
FOR YOURSELF
A Complete Line of 
IiATS 
SHIRTS 
TIES 
SOCKS 
PAJAMAS 
UNDERWEAR. 
CORRECTLY PRICED
Davies & Hughes
Oakland Mens Store
3615 FORBES STREET 
NEXT TO STRAND THEATER
listeners an intimate and accurate 
view of those particular problems the department was able to get
such good men for the regular lec-growing out of the war. which are 
confronting the world today, in his 
talk on "After-War Problems and 
Their Solution.
"Tha\t which makes the present 
European situation extremely alarm
ing is the fact that its underiving 
causes are economic forces. These 
economic forces act according to 
stated economic lawslaws which 
are as real and true as any mathe
matical formulae. We cannot suc
cessfully run antagonistic to any eco
nomic force any more than we can 
make water run up hill.
"Great Britains situation in the 
present tangle over the reparation 
question and the problem of the re
habilitation of the war-ridden coun
tries of Europe is- principally due to 
the fact that she is ohiefly a maritime 
trading nation. Eighty per cent of 
her trade is overseas. Her ship ton
nage is double that of any other coun
try. She has coaling stations every
where. Her navigation laws and her 
system of marine insurance are par
ticularly favorable lo EngliBli ships 
and English, capital.
"Because of this condition Great 
Britain disfavors a German or Rus
sian collapse. The German and Rus
sian markets must be revived so that 
they can absorb their normal pre-war 
quota of English trade. Upon the re
sumption of this trade will depend 
the continuance of the present unem 
ployment situation in England where 
about one and one-lialf million men 
are out of wforlc and are supported in 
part by government bounty.
"France on the other hand foresees 
trouble with a revived Germany. It 
must be conceded that France has a 
moral right to receive the payments 
due her. Reparation, remember, is 
not indemnity. Because of the large 
amounts of money which she has ex
pended in rebuilding, in anticipation 
of the reparations payments, France, 
if she fails to receive these payments, 
faces financial bankruptcy.
"In view of the existence of these 
unusual conditions, what, then, must 
the United States do in order to re
store the economic balance of Europe? 
Several things have been suggested. 
Of these the question of our lending 
more money to Europe is not feasible 
because they cannot now pay even the 
interest on the money which we have 
lent them. Cancellation of their 
debt to us is an unpopular and hardly 
practical solution
One possible method of solving 
these foreign difficulties is the hold
ing of an economic conference 
which the United States shall be the 
leading force. This conference would 
base its work upon the findings of an 
international commission of appointed 
experts who will have surveyed Ger
manys possibilities of paying for the 
rehabilitation of the areas which she 
so wilfully devastated during the 
war.
Senator-elect Fess speech touched 
upon a vital problem which has be
come complicated by the fact that 
France, in view of the default of the 
latest German reparation payment has 
advanced into and occupied the Ruhr 
section, one of the main coal pro
ducing and manufacturing areas of 
Germany. Frances move in this re
spect is based upon her right to do so, 
as set forth in the Versailles Treaty.
tures. On next Friday there will be 
the regular inspection trip and any
one who wishes to go on one of these 
trips should get in touch with Mr. 
Steidle.
TLWCY FLNDSALG
Fifth Avenue Boot Shop
near 48th Street. New York 
Style shoes of quality.
Exhibit Shop Pittsburgh: 
JENKINS ARCADE
Start the 
Week Right
Church on Sunday 
puts new pep into Mon
day, Tuesday, Wednes
daytill Sunday comes 
again. Try it and see.
Oakland Methodist 
Church
FORBES AND 
BOQUET
Fifty steps from the 
campus
We know that one satisfied customer brings 
another. X
The Hoot-Mon
CAMPUS LUNCH
Bellefield Presbyterian 
Church
Fifth and Bellefield Avenues. 
REV. ROBERT MacGOWAN,
D. D., Pastor.
Sabbath School ......... 9:45 A.M.
College Mens Bible
Class ..............................10:00 A.M.
Preaching service ... 7:00P.M. : 
Christian Endeavor
Societies ...................... 7:00 P.M. |
Preaching Service ... 8:00P.M. 
WELCOME! TECH STUDENTS
Lines from Famous
UNITARIANS
The bravest are the tenderest,
The loving are the dar
ing.
Bayard Taylor. 
FIRST UNITARIAN CHURCH
Morewood and Ellsworth 
Avenues
L. WALTER MASON, Pastor

---------------------------------------------------

WEDNESDAY, JANUARY 17, 1923THE CARNEGIE TARTANPAGE THREE
Skibos Tackle Geneva Athletic Council Awards 
and W. Va. This Week' Cross Country LettersOn the Plaid Screen
Both Teams Will Present 
Strong Lineups
This weeks basket hall card in
cludes two gamesone with Geneva 
College on Friday evening, the 19th, 
and the other with the University of 
"West Virginia, on Saturday, the 20th. 
Both games will be at home and as 
there will be numerous conflicting ac
tivities that attract the usual crowd, 
It is essential that every loyal student 
take it upon himself to see that he 
is at the games to help boost the 
team in giving all the support he can.
Last week the Geneva cagers lost 
I, well-played game against Pitt, but 
the fact that they have won most of 
their games to date is sufficient to-say 
that they have a team which may 
trouble the- Skibo quintet considerab
ly. Captain Boren of the Beaver Falls 
delegation will be back in his posi
tion at center. Boren had been on 
the sick list until last Saturday even
ing when he staged a star perform
ance in the second half of their game 
with Duquesne University. Schupe 
and McGraw are the two floormen 
who work together well in their re
spective positions at forward and 
guard.
West Virginia will play their third 
and last game of a trip to this state 
on Saturday evening. So far the 
mountaineers have chalked three 
games to their credit and the coach
ing of Stadsvold is beginning to show 
favorable results. Captain Bowers and 
Rhorobaugh hold guard positions 
while Hawley at center is a whirlwind 
in covering all parts of the floor at 
one time. The aggressiveness of Kill 
and Funk has won for them the name 
of being the most troublesome pair of 
forwards to be encountered any
where in this region.
The Carnegie Tech quintet has 
been put through some very hard 
workout since the game with State 
College last week. The squad is 
small and those men upon whom 
Coach Ben Lubic depends to fill each 
position, have not only been faithful 
in reporting but have shown much 
improvement from the style of game 
they have been playing. While An
derson continues to make his share 
of field goals and with Gibson a close 
second, .there is little worry that the 
fast floor work of Matter and the 
guarding of Mohrman will not accom
plish the results in these two games 
this week. Miller, a new center on 
the regular string, will probably re
tain his position while Mefort. and 
Newman will fight hard to regain 
their old positions.
The Athletic Council met last 
Wednesday for the purpose of elect
ing officers, awarding cross-country | 
letters, and passing upon various j 
other matters which are more or J 
less important as affecting the gen-j 
eral athletic policy of the school.
Buddy Overend was re-elected presi-j 
dent, and Frank Haaren, secretary, j 
Due to his illness, Mr. Haaren is not: 
at present able to carry on the af-1 
fairs of his office, but it is hoped j 
that he may soon be able to resume 
his good work in behalf of Carnegie 
Tech athletics. Overend has taken 
such a great and continued interest 
in our sports that no comment is 
necessary upon his election.
The following were awarded let
ters for their work on the cross
country team: Captain Greenlaw,
Dykeman, Tubbs, McKelvey, Ferralt 
and Mendenhall. In addition to these, 
Sampson was awarded a letter on the 
recommendation of Coach Beeler, and 
Lucas was presented with a letter 
for his services as manager.
The most important recommenda
tion passed by the council was the 
effect that Carnegie Tech should not 
join the Tri-State Basket Ball 
League, as explained in the last is
sue of The Carnegie Tartan. Nothing 
further was done about the football 
schedule, which, however, will be 
ready for publication within a few 
days.
By H. H. WILSON
A TRI-STATE CONFERENCE
Within the last few months a Tri-State Basket Ball Conference has been 
slowly taking form. Most of the Class B colleges in the section are strongly 
in favor of it and have signed up as members. On the other hand, such 
schools as Penn State, Pitt, West Virginia, Allegheny, W. & J. and our own 
Carnegie have withheld their acceptance and some of them have even de
finitely refused to join the newly formed organization. WHY IS IT THAT 
THESE COLLEGES WITH TEAMS OF GOOD REPUTATION ARE KEEP
ING OUT OF THE CONFERENCE? It cannot be on account of the eligi
bility rules for the organization has set forth very stringent laws in this 
matter. It cannot be due to the greater strength of the teams in the league 
for it is the stronger teams that are holding out. Neither can it be because 
of any of the other standards of the conference, for as far as can be observed 
they seem to be of the highest type, calling for good sportsmanship and fair 
play. The big advantages will be that it will provide a means of rating the 
teams at the end of the season; it will bring the colleges into closer athletic 
relationship and raise collegiate basket ball to a higher plane in tho TriState district. With these points in mind, we must conclude that there is 
some secret, deep-seated reason for the larger schools not putting their 
shoulders to the wheel and making the conference a success.
Fraternities wanting Dance Pro
grams, Favors, Stationery, Pillow Cov
ers, etc., should get prices from Sing
er Pen & Gift Shop.
FUNDS FOR ABROAD 
Successful armies must 
maintain their lines of 
communication. Likewise 
successful travelers. Mel
lon Travelers Checks and 
Letters of Credit assure a 
reliable connection with 
home resources while 
abroad. It is the RIGHT 
way to carry funds.
Mellon National Bank
Oliuer Smiihfield
Girls Have Difficulty in 
Getting Basket Schedule
Helen MaCrum, manager of the 
Girls Varsity Basket Ball team, is 
having her troubles rounding out a 
suitable schedule. Six games are al
lowed, and at present time, games 
with the girls team of Waynesburg 
College are the only fixtures. At one 
time Beaver College was scheduled, 
but due to action of the faculty at 
that school, they were cancelled, and 
close following this discouraging 
news, came a reply from Swarthmore, announcing that their schedule 
has been completed, and they there
fore could not accommodate the Mar
garet Morrison girls. Efforts are be
ing made to get games with Thiel 
and Grove City. If success attends 
Miss MaCrums efforts in this direc
tion, a full schedule will be had.
This fact is not disheartening the 
girls in the. least bit, for .they, are 
going ahead with their plans for a 
team regardless. The inter-class and 
inter-dormitory games will furnish 
the practice necessary before Miss 
Bowman can pick her varsity. Prac
tices of these teams are going on 
daily, and tho schedule makers prom
ise games after the beginning of 
next semester.
The Inter-Dorm League, composed 
of teams from the three girls dormi
tories (two being from the Woodlawn houses) the commuuters, the 
town girls, will be an innovation, by 
which it is hoped to interest every 
girl in the school.
Weekly swims are now being en
joyed by the girls.
She (fishing): Why dont you go 
with a beautiful, popular intelligent 
girl?
Hie (missing the point: 1 But I 
dont want a beautiful, popular, in
telligent girlI want you.
And then the fun began.Penn. 
Poly.
Adam stood and watched his wife 
Fall from an apple tree.
Aha! At last Ive found her. out; 
Eyesdropping, muttered he.
 The Teaser.
C. M. Stauft
3901 FORBES STREET
TECH STATIONER 
NEWS, CiGARS, CANDY, ETC. 
WATERMAN, MOORE, PARKER 
CONKLIN FOUNTAIN PENS
Formerly of the Rittenhouse and Willows
Sextons Dancing Academy f
McCRORY BLD6-., PENF, Near Highland, E. E. 
BEGINNERS CLASSES, Tuesdays and Fridays 
SOCIAL DANCING-, Thursdays and Saturdays 
GILES ORCHESTRA
Private Lessons Hiland 9242
GOOD SPORTSMANSHIP
The Inter-Fraternity basket ball season has started off in fine style and 
a good many of the teams are showing some real ability at the floor game. 
At a recent meeting eligibility was the main topic of discussion and was 
pretty thoroughly gone over. A few new rulings were passed upon but it 
was found that in most of the cases it was hard to draw the line very closely. 
Most of the success of league as far as good sportsmanship goes depends 
upon the individual fraternities and dormitories themselves. Keen rivalry 
is the thing we want but when it comes to using any unfair methods in 
order to come through victorious something should be done. Someone has 
suggested that publicity be used to stamp out such occurrences and we be
lieve it is a good idea. However we hope that such means will not have to 
be used and that the fraternities will see their mistake before they start 
upon unfair tactics. We understand that the spirit between fraternities is 
much better at Carnegie Tech than at most colleges but still it is not so 
good that it can not be made better.
INDIVIDUALISM
We always hear much criticism of a team that has individual piasters in 
their lineup. But just for curiosity look into the facts about the game with 
Penn State ,last Saturday night. It seems that a certain young Lion by the 
name of Reed did some all-star work for the State quintet, scoring about half 
their total points. It was no doubt largely due to his exceptional ability at 
caging the sphere that caused the Plaid to go down to defeat before the 
Lions. Individualism apparently triu;nplied in this case but of course there 
are always exceptions to any rule.
Inter-Frat. Basket 
Rules Interpreted
Those Who Have Earned 
Varsity C Are Ineligible
A meeting of the Inter-Fraternity 
Basket Ball League was held in the 
Y club room on Tuesday of last 
week, and several important ques
tions pertaining to the conduct of the 
league were discussed and some of 
the rules interpreted.
President H. H. Wilson called the 
meeting to order and after the . regu
lar routine business was disposed of, 
the question of allowing men who had 
in previous years played on the var
sity to compete in the league was 
brought up and discussed from, every 
angle. A motion was finally made and 
carried declaring that a man who has 
made his varsity C in basket ball was 
ineligible for the inter-fraternity
league. The next important item was 
the four personal foul rule. A motion 
was passed saying that the referees 
be instructed to strictly follow out 
the four personal foul rulethat is, 
when a player lias four personal
fouls charged against him he is autotomatically expelled from further par
ticipation in the game. This ruling 
will have a tendency to keep down 
any unnecessary roughness which so 
often tends to crop out in some of 
these games.
The concensus of opinion seems to 
be that while the conduct of the
league games should not be so strict 
regarding the rules as those of the 
varsity, there should be a little more 
basket ball and less football played 
on, the floor. Another important in
terpretation of the rules was madp 
clear by the motion that one man can 
represent only one team in the league 
throughout tliis season. This motion 
was unanimously carried. This pre
cludes the possibility of anyone, es
pecially the men residing in the dor
mitories and pledged to some frater
nity, from playing on more than one 
team.
Rifle Team Captain to Be 
Elected at Meeting Today
The Rifle Club will hold a meeting 
today in Room 60, Science Building, 
at 7:30 p. m. A captain of the rifle 
team will be elected at this timo and 
new members will be enrolled into 
the club.
New members will pay $2.00 which 
covers initiation fee and membership 
fee for this year, while old members 
will be taxed $1.00 for renewal of 
membership.
All members are furnished ammuni
tion free and avail themselves of tho 
club rifles. It is not necessary that a 
prospective member know how to 
alioot well, if at all. Persons making 
a place on tho rifle team are awarded 
five activity points in tho point sys
tem which is as much as is awarded 
in any other athlotic sport at Car
negie Tech.
Rifle shooting is entirely an athletic 
sport since it requires tho co-ordina
tion of brain, nerve and muscle and is 
meeting with greater interest every 
year here and at other promlnont uni
versities.
It will probably be necessary to lim
it the membership due to limited fa
cilities, thorefpre, it is adviaod that 
persons who wish to join the Rifle Club 
should avail themselves of tho oppor
tunity at the Riflo Club meeting to
day.
FOOTBALL FILM RELEASED
AT CAMERAPHONE
!
Flowers for Every Occasion
Gift Boxes 
Corsages 
Plants 
Decorations
Tech students will find that our prices are in keeping with the quality 
and service.A. W. Smith Company
LIBERTY AT SIXTH AVENUE PENN AT STANWIX STREET
Phone Smithfield 327.
Delivered anywhere in United States or Canada.
WHITTINGTON DRESS SUIT CO.
Solves Social Function Clothes Question. 
Any Style. All Occasions.
Complete Renting Outfitters 
Head to Foot.
Any Size. All Accessories.
Largest Stock between New York and 
Chicago.
6002 Jenkins Arcade Pittsburgh
Phone Smithfield 341
(Continued from Page One) 
has said: 'Gosh, but Id like to see
that game? 
Now, listen, fellows, and co-eds, 
too. You all think that Carnegie 
should have more publicity. Now 
here is a chance for you to help to 
that end. If the public and publicity 
men can learn that we are really back 
of the school and her activities, it is 
certain that more notice will be taken 
of what is going on around that little 
technical school out there by the 
park. Now, dont all come rushing 
out there on Friday and Saturday 
nights. Saturday night there will be 
a big crowd there anyway, and unless 
you care to be caught in the jam, well, 
you know. You all have an easy1 
day sometime during the week. Go 
the night before, or during the after
noon.
This is not a favor that is asked of 
you. You will get your moneys 
worth. The three reels take one-half 
hour or better on the program and 
cover all of the games played by Car
negie last fall. They form the big
gest attempt yet made at football 
movies here. Both the other films are 
well worth seeing and the chances 
are that most of you would want to 
see them sooner or later anyway. If 
each of us will co-operate and buy his 
tickets at the Alumni office, there 
should be no trouble whatever about 
the guarantee of one thousand tickets, 
if not, wellyou know. Let us crowd 
the theater. Go early, avoid the rush, 
and give the people of Pittsburgh an 
eye-opener. The Alumni office is open 
from nine to five. Line forms on the 
right, please.
Jever?
Know that the wages of gin is 
breath?
Plaid Plebes Lose to Short SCou sSohSs STATE BEATS PLAID 
Heinz House Reserves W0RK'0^1 ARM0RYi IN FAST GAME, 36-25
Goodwin Stars For Plebes in 
Hotly Contested Game
Last Saturday night Coach Beelers 
Freshman basket hall team lost to the 
Heinz House Reserves by a score of 
42 to 32. It was a very close game, 
the score at the eud of the first half 
being 16 to 15 in favor of Heinz 
House. The game was anybodys up 
until the last two minutes of play 
when Ammons of Heinz House bril
liantly scored the winning points.
Goodwin starred for Carnegie Tech. 
Throughout the game ho played an 
excellent game of basket ball, and 
scored 20 of Techs 32 points. Jack
son and Rieter also performed excep
tionally well for the Tartans. Am
mons and Grimes were the high point 
gainers for Heinz House. Ammons 
especially played a flashy game.
When you take into consideration 
the fact that several of the Heinz
House players from their varsity 
squad were playing for the Re
serves you can easily see that our 
Freshman team is a crack aggrega
tion and has great possibilities for 
the future. Take it up and give those 
Plebes thesupport they deserve.
The lineup:
Tech Freshmen. Heinz House.
Edie ..:...........Forward............ Amnions
Rieter .............Forward................ Rltzel
Goodwin ....Center.............. Grimes
Burt ...................Guard................... Striger
Beede ................Guard................... Seipor
SubstitutionsLackey for Edie, Lepore for Lackey, Ivuntz for Amnions, 
Markwood for Seiper, Smith for Markwood, Dorsli for Ritzol, Ammons for 
Kuntz, Kuntz for Ammons, Jackson
for Burt, Burt for Jackson.
Field goalsAmmons 5, Rltzel 2, 
Grimes 3, Kuntz 3, Rieter 3, Goodwin 
7, Lackey 2.
FoulsAmmons, 10 out of 15; Rlt
zel, 2 out of 1; Rieter, 3 out of *1; 
Goodwin, 5 out of 13.
RefereeKennedy.
Oil Thursday afternoon at -1:30, the 
candidates for the track team met in 
tho varsity clubrooiu at the field 
house, and hoard some preliminary 
instructions from Coach Beolor and 
Captain Brumbaugh regarding indoor 
practice which will start this week at 
the 107tli Regiment Armory in East 
Liberty.
Coach Beeler announced that prac
tice will bo held every Tuesday and 
Thursday afternoon from four o'clock 
on. Each candidate should bring his 
own equipment, including sweat pants 
and sweat shirt or sweater. Somo of 
the men may receive equipment from 
the managers as soon as accounts are 
straightened.
The track schedule is more than 
usually ambitious this year. The 
more important meets are those with 
Ohio State, at home; that with Navy, 
at Annapolis, and the Drake Relays, 
at which all * tho big western confer
ence schools will compete. This lat
ter meet will prove a harder tost for 
the Plaid Mercuries than would the 
Penn relays, for which the Drake 
meet was substituted. Faster com
pany will be met and the fame of the 
Skibos will be further broadcasted 
through the west.
Brumbaugh supplemented Beelers 
remarks with a few detailed instruc
tions concerning equipment and the 
development of form in running.
There were perhaps thirty candi
dates present at tho meeting. More 
men are needed, and the coach sends 
out an espoclall urgent plea for men 
who can pole-vault. Come out, you 
who aspire for tho upper regions.
PNEUMONIA TAKES DON F.
BURLEY, ENG.. FRESHMAN
(Continued From Pace One.) 
ing through the mid-semester without 
a single deficiency, which is a record 
to be proud of.
As an athlete, he was considered 
by Coach Beeler of the Freshman 
team, as a most promising candidate. 
He had succeeded in making AllScholastic basket ball center of
Philadelphia during his last year at 
the. Germantown High School of that 
city.
Before entering Carnegie Tech, 
Donald Burley had worked at differ
ent periods with Ivy Hill Cemetery 
Company, F. M. Lipton Company and 
P. R. Davine Cut Stone Company. 
His Hues of work included gardening, 
salesman and drafting.
The funeral services were held
from the home of his sister, Mrs. I-I. 
J. Spuhler, last Monday afternoon.
The pallbearers, members of the 
Freshman basket ball- team, were: 
P. R. Edie, E. A. Lepore, R. E. Burt, 
H. R. Jones, J. C. Jackson, H. F. 
Reiter.
BARNEY GOOGLE AND
SPARKY HERE; OUR GREAT
EST TRIUMPH OF THE YEAR
(Continued from Pago Ono) 
cast iron horsoslioo which was to ho 
hung about tho neck of the graceful 
animal upon his arrival. Classes were 
dismissed for the morning, and ovorywliero there was excitement and rojoiclng.
Spark Plug Modest and Shy.
Tho celebration came off oven hottor than was expected, and Mr. Goo
gle, dressed In his usual slllc hat. 
marched at the head of tho procession 
down Woodlawn avonuo, followed by 
the bashful Sparky. Tho famous 
horse, aomowliat awed by the cxiea of 
Aint ho cute? that came from fem
inine admirers, marched with Ills head 
down, almost complotoly coverod by 
tho woll known blanket that boars 
ills name, t was easily soon that Ilia 
success on the track had loft him 
natural and unapollod, and throughout 
tho march lie remained covorod with 
blankets and confusion. Choorloador 
Hertz load the student body In a 
Iloarso yell when the Central Build
ing was 'reached, and Mr. Google 
mountod Spark Plug and responded 
with a characteristic spoooli.
aontlomon and Ladles of Carnegie 
Tech, he began, It Is with the ut
most ploasuro that Spark Plug and I 
liavo escaped from tho comic supple
ments to bo with you today. (Laugh
ter). Following my unfortunate ex
perience aboard my private yacht 
(Boisterous Mirth) T dotorminod to 
give my horse the advantage of a col
lege oducatlon, and I am here today 
partly-with the vlow of entering Spark 
Plug In the Racehorse Engineering Di
vision. (Cheers). For myself, I can 
only say that Carnegie Tech inter
ests me strangely and I trust that 
someday I may make a longer stop 
here. (Cries of You tell em, Bar
ney!)
Mr. Google spent the day with Pres
ident Baker and Dean Tarbell, and ex
pressed interest in the Margaret Mor
rison Division and wonder at the new 
gymnasium.
Spark Plug was quoted as saying 
that he hoped to return next Septem
ber.
Anderson and Gibson Star For 
Skibos; Reed Big Noise 
For State
Girls to Hold Banquet
and Rally January 24th
Plans aro being made by the Girls 
Athlotic Association of Margaret Mor
rison and Arts for a grand dinner 
rally. Tho. date has boon sot for 
Wednesday, January 24th, when plans 
for the now somostor will bo dls* 
cus8od. A good speaker will give her 
views. 011 tho Important mattors per
taining to girls athletics, and mu
sic will help to enliven tho affair. 
Every girl Is planning to bo prosont.
At tho last mooting of tho associa
tion It was decided that all girls must 
report tliolr points earned towards 
tho girls Carnoglo "C and sweater, 
by January 10th. Theso points must 
ho handed In in ordor to chock up 
with tho ofllco records. If they aro 
not In by this dato, no credit what
ever wlU bo givon. Miriam Bond, Ray 
Fine, and IfllOttnor Will aro tho only 
girls authorized to rocolvo thoao re
ports.
SENIOR ESSAYS RECEIVE
FEW HONOR GRADES
Due chiefly to a strong rally in tho 
closing minutes of play last Saturday 
night, the Penn State basket ball 
team triumphed over the fast and 
hard lighting Carneglo Tech aggrega
tion by the scoro of 3G-25. The Nittuny cagers were pushed to the limit 
to win their third straight victory of 
the soasou.
Penn State opened the offensive in 
the first few minutes of play when 
Johnnie Reed caged three goals from 
tho foul line in succession before the 
Tartans even got started. But the 
lead was short lived and a field goal 
each by Gibson from under the basket 
and by Matter from the side gave the 
Plaid a four to three lead. But Shall, 
of the Lions, quickly scored two 
points and from this load State was 
never ousted, although the score was 
tied once. The score at the end of 
the first half was 24 to 13.
Carnegie gave tho Blue and White 
a bad scare at the opening of the sec
ond half, when for several minutes 
they showed such a dash of speed 
that it looked as though the Skibos 
were going to forge ahead. Jimmy 
Anderson led the rally with three 
field goals that decreased the Lions 
lead to four points. A heart-breaking 
moment it was for tho visitors when 
Reed found Ills shooting eye and his 
three double-counters In quick succes
sion almost took tho heart out of the 
Tartans. This started States last big 
campaign and she gradually drew 
away from tho visitors.
Anderson and Gibson did tho best 
work for tho Plaid. Tho former shot 
four Hold goals and the latter contri
buted three. For State, Reed was 
tho Individual star. He scored half 
of his toams points with live field 
goals and olght from tho foul Hnf\ 
States toam play was ragged and 
her victory was duo to Roods Indi
vidual playing.
Tho lineup:
Penn State36, Carnoglo Tech25.
Rood ........................F................ Andorson
Gorhardt ................F..................... Matt or
Shalr .......................C......................... Mlllor
Koohlor .................G....................... Gibson
Loolllor...................G.................Mohrman
Substitutions  Flxtor for Rood, 
Rood for Flxtor, Mefort. for Mohrman. 
Flold goalsRood 5, Gorhardt 3, 
Shalr 2, Koohlor 3, Loonier, Mlllor, 
Gibson 3, Matter, Andorson -1. Foul 
goals*Rood, 8 out of 13; Matter, 7 
out of 11; Gorhardt, none out of 2. 
RoioreoTaggart,
People who live In glass houses 
give themselves away by pulling 
down the shades.Jack o Lantern.
some valuable material for his varsity 
team. Individual names will be omitr r , DBE ., r I ted, for the one-sided scores of some
Ol Inter-rraternity League 0f the teams show where these men
are playing truant from the represen
tative floor team of C. I. T.
Results of the games played in 
Langley Lab last week were as fol
lows:
Close Scores Mark Openers
Should Coach Ben Lubic give the 
Inter-Fraternity-Dormitory game the 
once over he would undoubtedly find
Tuesday, January 9.
Kappa Sigma Rhc ................................ 13 Beta Theta Pi ........................................ 12
Sigma Nu .................................................. 13 . Delta Mu .................................................... >
Xi Sigma Upsilon ................................ 17 Henderson Hall ..................................... 11
McGill Hall forfeited to Woodlawn Club.
Wednesday, January 10
Iota Sigma Delta .................................. 43 Delta Pill Delta ..................................... 4
Pi Kappa Alpha .................................... 20 Boas Hall ................................................... 11
Sigma Alpha Epsilon ......................... 24 SIgrna Epsilon Phi .........................!. 0
Square and Compass ........................ 8 Welch Hall ............................................. 4
Thursday, January 11.
Beta Sigma Rho .................................... 14 Theta XI .................................................... 0
Tau Gamma Phi .................................. 14 Delta Upsilon ......................................... 12
Scobell Hall ............................................ 18 Delta Epsilon Omega ..........................U
The schedule for this week:
Tuesday, January 10.
Sigma Alpha Epsilon versus Iota Sigma Delta.
Sigma Nu versus McGill Hall,
Theta Xi versus Welch Hall.
Kappa Sigma versus Beta Sigma Rho.
Wednesday, January 17.
Scobell Hall versus Beta Theta PI.
Woodlawn Club versus Delta Mu.
Tau Gamma Phi versus Eoss Hall.
XI Sigma Upsilon versus Square and Compass.
Thursday, January 18.
Delta Phi Delta versus Kappa Sigma Rho.
Delta Epsilon Omega versus Sigma Epsilon Phi.
Delta Upsilon ersus Pi Kappa Alpha.
(Oontlnuod from Pago Ono)
Drama ............................. 5
Music ............................... 11
Paint and 11 Itisl.............. G
Industries.
Building Const .............. 11.
Elootrlcol Equip............. 3
Machine Prod.................. 3-1
Printing ........................... *1
Margaret Morrlr.on,
Costumo IDcon................ 12
Household Econ............. 20
Physical Hduc................ 7
Socroturlal St.................. 18
lildltor-Soorotary ......... 7
iSclonco ........................... 4
Soclul Work .................. 12
Included In tho report were va
rious recommondutlons as to possible 
ways or Improving tho English of the 
students throughout their entire 
course and the investigation carried 
on In regard to the English of tho 
'Seniors will undoubtedly bring rosultfj that will furnish a moans where
by the Seniors of the future will show 
a higher avorago In work of this na
ture than those of this year.
Taken as a whole the results wore 
unsatisfactory from a standpoint of 
the showing made by the three hun.-10
.17
nono
nono
nono
.2-1
nono
.08 
.25 
.14 
.78 
,7 t 
.25 
.33
tho essays. Although tho per cent 
honor grades In tho various school 
glvos a fair estimate if tho rating 
of tho Sonlors tho fact that. In two 
of tho colleges botwoon thlrty-flvo 
and forty per cont of the Seniors 
rooolvod a. grade of F certainly fulls 
to morlt an absolute consideration of 
tho honor grades as s. criterion.
THISTLE CAMPAIGN
CLOSE8 TH18 FRIDAY
(Continued From Pago Ono.) 
having tho hook printed tho way It 
should ho printed. Properly ex
pressed, this yoar's otlltpr-in-phloE 
knows hlu stuff, and when It como.H 
Lo printing bo's there. Being a prin
ter he can direct tho work Intelli
gently, getting tho results to turn out 
a real book.
Tho Board guaranteed tho 1023 
Thistle to bo tho host yet, and evory 
effort Is being made, to accomplish 
tills. Give the Board your support, 
and you will not bo disappointed when 
tho book is printed.
ThoDenizen of the Hash House: 
idea; niiyi napkin is damp.
Head Walter: Perhaps that's! be
cause there is so much dew on your 
dred and nineteen Seniors who wroto board.The Black and White.
Why Young Men Should 
Consider Insurance Selling
Seven Reasons for Life Insurance Career
m
KEVA INSURANCE is founded on the 
highest ideals.
It is capable of yielding a good income and the 
satisfaction of accomplishment.
It offers opportunities for real leadership.
It brings insurance salesmen in close associa
tion with big business and big business men.
It requires education in business methods, 
law and finance.
It is a field for workers, not shirkers.
It is an alluring and practical calling for men 
of dynamic energy.
m
PAGE TWOHCRWNE IDSYRW,J
or Boston. Mabbachubtvb

---------------------------------------------------

PAGE FOURTHE CARNEGIE TARTANWEDNESDAY, JANUARY 17, 1923
-ALUMNI PAGE
CLAN NEWS
HARR.I8.BURQ CLAN
Tho Harrisburg Clan of Carnoglo 
Tocli Alumni met on Uio ovonlng of, 
Docombor 20 for a dlnnor-danco ut 
tho Civic Club. Tho Committee on 
Arrangements was composed of M.
Edward Croon, Hoffer Sload of Columbla, J. M. Mlniilclc, II. Y, Schauh 
of Luncutitbr, and Itltchlo iMv/rlo,
Following tho dinner G. D. Whitnoy, 
president of tho Clan, Introduced 
Walter Llpplncott of the Philadolphi a Clan, a tho sp'oakor of tho
ovonlng. C. Valontlno Kirby! ro
epondod on behalf of tho faculty. 
Letter woro read from several per
sons who could not bo proont.
A very pleaBant feature of the 
evening was (ho Kiltie Santa Claim 
Impersonated by John Todd. Each 
poi'Hon preBont .JU presented with u 
toy by tho kind hoarl.cd old Scot.
Tlioso present woro Mr. and Mrs. 
M. Edwin Croon, Mr. and Mr. II. 
Y. Schaub of Lancaster, Miss Mary 
Hoifnagle, XMUS Helen Wagner, Mlsa 
Ethel Jennings, Miss Mildred Sp'enco, 
XMUU Mary 'Hoover, XMUU Leah Ken
nedy, XMUU Roberta Gelmoro of Emlenton, XMUU Catherine Stocldey, 
Miss Ella Mae Wilson of Saltsburg, 
XMUU Ruth Britton, XMUG Jean Motter, 
XMUU Cora Gilbert, XMUU Margaret 
McDovitt, XMUU Gladys Bolan, XMUU 
Tannie l-Iorr, XMUU Laura Gelstwhlto, 
and XMUU Grace Nyo; C. B. BuBhong, 
P. D. Good, John G. Todd, Dr. C. B. 
Kirby, G. D. Whitney, C. B. Connolly, 
II. Klugli, Lloyd Comfort, II. L. 
Landis, L. M, Landis, .1. M, Ml nick, 
Milo Motlor, C. Good, S. II. Miller 
of Lancaster, J. S. Rowe of Lancas
ter, Paul Putt of Lebanon, Hoffer 
Sload of 'Columbia, M. W. Bastian of 
Lancaster, A. L. Strayer of York, 
Arthur Thorn o of York, and 1-Ionry 
Gordon H. Eisenliart of York.
BUFFALO CLAN
On Docombor 23 1922, a banquet
was held in the Elliott Club for tho 
purpose of creating an acquaintance 
between tho local alumni and tho 
undergraduates. Due to tho limited 
time In making preparations for tho 
affair wo had but twenty men pres
ent, fourteen undergraduates and nix 
alumni. It served, however, to bring 
thoso men closer togothor, forming 
a good nucleus for a strong Clan in 
tho near futmro. Constructive plans 
were thoroughly discussed for fur
thering tho intorCBts of Carnoglo 
Tech In till city, In compliance 
with alms of tho fodoratlon.. It MU to 
arrange a concert by the Musical 
Clubs in Buffalo tills yoar. To date, 
I boro have boon fourLoon alumni ac
tive In tho organisation. Thoro aro 
a largo number in the outlying dis
tricts with whom wo have boon un
able to communicate to date. Moot
ings are hold the third Friday of each 
month, and it is requested that; all 
within flying distance of Buffalo bocome Interested in our Clan.
Tho next mooting, will bo held on
Friday evening, January 19, and all 
visitors aro requested to communi
cate with G. D. Martin, 52ti East 
Ferry street.
NORFOLK CLAN
The Tidewater Clan of Norfolk, Va., 
hold 11 first meeting of 1028 ,on Jan 
uary 4, at 0:00 p. m., at the office 
of Rouper, Bowden & Sands.
A party of nine Carnegie Tech 
men attended. Refreshment and 
mokes were served. After tho busi
ness of tho evening waB transacted, 
tho assombly adjourned to the Hotel 
Fairfax whore a dinner had been 
prepared.
During tho business session 
election was held. The result were 
as follow:
President-T. David Fit/,gibbon.
SecretaryJanies W. Phillips.
The following men woro present: 
E. B. Curtis, Wm. II. Sands, .louse 
Harris, Herman Rosenberg, Nathan 
Cushman, T. David Fitzgibbon, J. L 
Adkin, Y. Y. Cook and James W. 
Phillips.
CHICAGO CLAN
The first monthly luncheon of tho 
Chicago Carnegie Clan will bo held 
at tho University Club, 70 East Mon
roe street, on Saturday, January 20, 
at 1:15 p. m.
We want you: to bo there. Call up 
or write to the secretary, 1. S. Stark, 
at 1552 East Sixty-third street, phone 
Dorchester 8010. I must know by 
Thursday, January 18, that you are 
coming.
Tho life oC tho Clan depends on 
you and you can make It something 
to be proud of.
I have done my work when you 
have finished reading this announe< 
ment. Tho rest is up to you1.
Hoping you will bo thoro and help 
malco It a greater Clan.
Alumni Urged to Buy Come on, Alumni, Wake Up! Football Movies to Be 
Junior Prom Tickets Subscribe |Jr the Kllts Shown at Cameraphone
Says the Sage of Science
Committee to Reserve Alumni 
Tickets Until Jan. 26
The Junior Prom preliminary tick
et have been old at such a rapid 
rate during tho pat week that tho 
student quota will probably be ox* 
bausted by this Friday. Tho committoe ha roHerved a number of ticket 
for tho alumni, but as yet very few 
roBponKo have been received. In the 
event that tho tudent quota 1 sold 
tliia woek, the alumni tickets will be 
the only ones left. All graduates are 
urged to send in their money at once, 
for the committee will be obliged to 
turn over unold alumni tickets to tho 
undergraduate body.
Tho committee will reserve the 
alumni tickets until January 25, after 
that date any unsold tickets may be 
purchased by the Btudents. Send in 
your check to E. M. Johnston, care 
Theta Xi, 4002 Forbes street, Pitts
burgh, Pa. Malco cheeks payable to 
E. A. Berglund, Treasurer. The price 
is $8.50; the date, February 2, 1923; 
the place, Hotel Schenley; the orches
tra, Nelson Maples.
Como on, Alumni, don't sit back* 
and expect somo ono else to per
form your duty for you. Wake up 
and face the facts. Tho Kilt Fund 
Drive is not complete. Far from It!
Tho studentB . wero asked to sub
scribe $2,000. Their enthusiasm and 
loyalty carried them over the top 
very quickly.
Alumni, your quota is $1,000. So 
far you have gone but one-fourth of 
the way.
Out of an Alumni body of 3,300, 
only 166, SN far have proved them
selves loyal to the progress of their 
Alma Mator.
Imagine yourself In one of tho old 
enthusiastic parades over the cam
pus. Get in line. Make a check or 
money order out to G. L. Tilbrook, 
Treasurer, and mark it "Kilties." See 
that your name appears on the next 
roster.
The following new subscriptions 
have been received:
Sarah Wellings, Edwin Haub, 
David 1-Ionderson, James W. Phillips, 
C. A. Stone, F. W. Heckert, Anna L. 
Cosset, R. H. Watt, Walter J. Blenko, 
John F. Maxwell, E. A. 'Butts.
Week of Jan. 22. Buy Tickets 
Through Athletic Office
They put one over on you, Plebes. 
Never mind, life has its ups and 
downs. You are due to be up next 
time.
DAYTON CLAN
On Friday ovonlng, December 8, the 
Dayton Clan gathered for a mooting 
and dinner at tho Dayton Engineers 
Club.
Thoro woro fourteen Techite prosont. Mr. F. W. Heckort presiding.
At. Ilio conclusion of tho business 
mooting tho party adjourned to the 
Groystono, whore dancing was the 
main feature, of tho ovonlng.
Another social ovonlng is planned 
for t.lil month, and {arrangements aro 
being mado to hold ono business and 
ono social mooting each month,
All visitors aro invited to com
municate with tho soorotary, L. II. 
Sioglor, 2505 WoI. Fairvlow avenue.
business meeting there will be a card 
party and light refreshments. Please 
inform Miss Harris by card or phone 
(Col 0220) if you will be present.
KEWPIES TO FROLIC
AT NEXT D. A. V. DANCE
Remember the good time you. had 
at tho Armistice Dance last Novem
ber? Another such good time can I bill to the consumer is therefore 
bo had by attending the Kewpio based on two things; the total amount 
dance Saturday evening, January 20,1 of power used, and the demand or
the maximum amount of power used 
in some interval of time.
the maximum amount of power used 
in any interval, special meters known 
as demand meters are used. These 
meters record the amount of power 
being used -from instant to instant 
graphically. The actual basis on 
which the consumer is charged is ob 
tained from the charts thus made. In 
addition to this, integrating watt hour 
meters are used to determine the 
actual amount of power used. The
During the whole week of January 
22, the Cameraphone Theater, East 
Liberty, will show, in addition to its I 
regular program, all the films of the 
Carnegie Tech football gameB played 
during the season of 1922.
This was made possible through the 
co-operation of Mr. William Finkel, 
an old alumnus, now with the Quality 
Film Corporation, and tho kindness of 
Mr. Kester, manager of the Camera
phone.
Mr. Finkel was the: Tartan football 
manager in 1912 with Frank H. 
Haaren, our present graduate manI ager, as his assistant.
The program at the Cameraphone 
for the week of January 22, is:
Monday, Tuesday and Wednesday, 
"Forget Me Not, with Bessie Love 
and Garret Hughes.
Thursday, Friday and Saturday, 
Viola Dana in Love in the Dark."
The school must guarantee the sale 
of 1,000 tickets and will get credit 
for all sold through the school. 
Therofore send stamps, check or 
money order for 33 cents, payable to 
F. H. Haaren, treasurer, and address 
it to the Alumni Office, enclosing a 
self-addressed stamped envelope.
Doc Esquerre says that the largest 
part of some students is the wish 
bone.
WASHINGTON, D. C-, CLAN
Tho January mooting of Ilio Wash
ington Clan will bo hold on Thurs
day ovonlng, ilio eighteenth, at* tho 
home of Kathryno Harri, 1505 La
ment stroot, N. W. Aftor a bori.
in tho Union.
The-same committee of the Dis
abled Veterans of tho World War 
will be In charge of the Kewpio 
dance and they promise to make this 
dance another D. A. V. success. 
Izy" Cervones American Legion 
Orchestra will blosB the occasion 
with music which no feet can resist. 
A prize danco is to be the feature 
dance, and tho prize to be given will 
bo somothlng everyone will be anxi 
ous for. If you have never attended 
one of tho Disabled Vet dances, be 
sure and talco this one in. Thoso 
who have attended before won't miss 
[ this ono,
Patrons for tho occasion aro to be 
Mr, Kirkpatrick and Mr. Swanson, 
Honored guests aro Mr. and Mrs. 
(Morris and Mr. and Mrs. Pfouts. Re
member tho time and place, Satur
day ovonlng, January 20, In the 
Union. Tickets can bo purohasod 
from any member of Carnegie Tech 
chapter of the D. A. V. Price, $1.50 
per couple,
Jacques Dancing Academy
Now Tom Starting 
BEGINNERS, MONDAY AND FRIDAY
Social with Good Orchestra, Wednesday & Saturday 
Privuto Lessons Daily.
Evening Classes are at 8:30
Announsing
that:
c^Wd
liver^s Jb>hoas
wil continue to visit
CARNEGIE TECH
thruout die coming coilej year 
with the newest and best in conservativly correct footwear at 
prices ranjing from $7 to $10.
The first display of the season wil 
be at:
Fraternities on January 27
^ktvVyUi 
TtVeiCs Jt5hpe>s
General Of ft 3 e.9: iai Drmnc iftrcet Mew York. City
cJVou/Jor/j Slwns 'PUilciilcliihiu 5/io/>
IVmxIwiiy , ChoMmu -ALUM
7 9 23 ttUi
Do You Need Extra Courses?
Send for catalog describing over 400 courses in History, English, 
Mathematics, Chemistry, Zoology, Modern Languages, Economics, 
Philosophy, Sociology, etc., given by corrcspondcncc. Inquire 
how credits earned may be applied on present college program.
ijr Imtipraiiy of (Eliir agoI
HOME STUDY DEPT.CHICAGO. ILLINOIS
A. I. E. E. VIEWS FILM ON
CANNED ELECTRICITY
(Continued From Pago Ono.) 
oxt'simivo knowledge of motors, but 
ho has alflo dovolopod dovlcoa to In
crease tho ollielonoy of certain typoB 
of motor.
Tho importance of motor and mo
toring of olootrio power woro opodally omphanizod. This in of particu
lar importance to electric onglnoor 
lnoo tho GJNNNSS of tho Light and 
Power industry doponds to a largo 
extent, on dependable and accurate 
motoring of power.
A short history of tho dovolopmont 
of motor was given. Tho develop
ment of motor from tho early crude 
typo down to tho prosont day highly 
ollicient instrument was doscribed.
Mr. Pltzor explained tho way big 
consumers of electric power aro billed 
for tho amount of power they con
sume. Since tho Power Company has 
to bo prepared at all times to fur
nish all the power a consumer wants, 
It means that the company must have 
tile necessary equipment to supply 
this demand at any time even though 
tills power may only bo used during a 
veryi small part of the month. It is 
obvious that tho maximum power re
quirements are greatest during the 
day, and least during the night. In 
order to keep as much as possible of 
their installed equipment working all 
the time the power companies offer 
special rates to the consumer who 
uses power ut night, when the regular 
load is least. In order to determine
A film produced by the Sangamo 
Meter Company and the U. S. Depart
ment of Commerce was shown. This 
film portrayed tho manufacture of 
electric meters and was extremely in
teresting. Every process from raw 
material to finished product was. picturized. The use of meters was also 
Illustrated.
ft was brought out that only about 
40 per cent of tho electrical students 
aro members of tho Tech Branch of 
the A. I. E. E. Every electrical stir 
deiit should be a member. The ad 
vantages, such as hearing men prom
inent in the electrical industry, talk, 
and the gaining of an idea as to what 
electric engineers do In practice are 
invaluable.
After an announcement by Prof. 
Donnell concerning the next meeting, 
tho mooting was adjourned.
SCHOOL REDUCES
COMMONS PRICES
Pago One.)
... .15 .20-15
,.15 .20
(Continued From
beef, wieners, etc...........
Cold moats, scrambled 
egg, croamod oggs, 
omolots, and elieoBO
dishes ..................................
Macaroni, rice, spaghetti, 
noodles, with cheese or
bakod ..................................
Potatoes, rice..............................05
Sweet potatoos, and all
groon vogotablo...................07
Vegetables and Lottuoo
salads ...........................
Fruit and moat salads
Mayonalso ....................
Russian Dressing......................05
Pastry, ico cream, cus-, 
tard, and bakod pud
dings ..................................
Fruit, gelatine, whip...,
Bovorages .............................
Rolls and butter ................
Rolls 1..............................................02
Butter ................................ .02
Bread and butter........................
Breakfast.
All cereals, with milk___
All cereals, with cream..
Bacon, per slice ................ .05
Egg, (one) .....................................07
Toast, one slice..........................02
Toast, two slices .
Toast, three slices
Milk Toast ...................................10 ..
Muffins ............................................02
Fresh fruits ...................... .05-.10 .10
Grape fruit ...................................10 .10
Stewed fruits ...............................07 .10
.10
.07
.10
.03
.10
.07
.05
.10
.05
.10
.15
.15
.10
.10
.05
.07
.05
.07
.10
.10
.10
.10
.03
.05
A girl with a pretty knee can grin 
and baro it.McGill Daily.
Directory of Alumni Organizations
Alumni FederationPresident, S. G. Little, 10; First Vice President, J. F. 
Laboon,''12; second Vice President, H. L. Heilman, '17; Third Vice Pres
ident, Genevieve Cusliwa, 12; Fourth Vice President, S. M. Vincent, OS; 
Secretary, Edna C. Smith, 09; Treasurer, G. L. Tilbrook, 15.
Board of GovernorsCollege of Fine ArtsH. H. Heilman, 17; M. M. 
Steen, OS; Frank Raaren, Associate.
College of IndustriesS. G. Little, 10; A. J. Hynd, '22; W. H. 
Ritts, 12.
College of EngineeringJ. F. Laboon, 12; G. L. Tilbrook. 15; M. R. 
Walton, '09.
Margurot Morrison Carnoglo CollegeFlorence Beclitol, IS; Mrs. F.
I. Gaston, 09; Edna C. Smith, 09.
Roproaontatlvos at LargoGonevlovo Cushwa, 12; S. M. Vincent, OS. 
Officers of Alumni AssociationsCollege of Fine ArtsProsidont, II. L. Heilmon. *17; Soorotary, Frank II. Haaren; Associate Troasurer. Bortlia 
Johnson, /I-I.
Board of GovernorsC. O. lilogor, M3; Dorothoa Stoinmaclior, 19; 
'Frodorlo McConnoll, '17; Charlotte Smith, IS; Sarah Owon, 
Assoc la to.
College of IndustriesProsidont, S. G. Littlo, 10; Vico Prosidont. C. 
K. Koontz, 17; Second Vico Prosidont, K. H, B. Julian, *10; Scrotary-Troasurer, A J. Hynd, 22. , ,
Board of GovernorsL. T. Kolly. Assoclato L. II. Leo, 09; F. Mlllor, 
*09; J. M. Orr, '15; G. T. Hoddaous, 19; F. A. Crothors. '21. 
Colioge of EngineeringProsidont, J. F,. Labopn, 12; SecrotaryTroasuror, G. L. Tilbrook, 15.
Board of GovernorsR. S. Wilson, 15; M. R. Walton, 09; E. F. 
Hirsh, 20; F. I. Qnstou, 09; G. L. Tilbrook. 15; II. S. Stockdalo, '15; H. G. Nlcliol, '21; J. F. Laboon, 12; R. C. Cosgrove, 
IS; E. E. DufT, 13.
Margaret Morrison Carnegie CollegePresident, Florence I. Bechtel, 
IS; First Vico President, Jane Linderman Colo. 11; Second Vico 
Prosidont, Suo Smith. 17; Secretary-Treasurer, Edna C. Smith, 
09.
Executive CommitteeMrs. F. I. Gaston, 09; Gail Sellers Fettke. 
17; Florence Bechtel, IS; Bernice Kruger, 19; Mary Cummings 
Keaney, 20; Margaret Griffin, 21; Josephine Whitney, 22. (The 
officers are members of this Committee.)
K
Dont be conceited. When you 
graduate, the work you leave behind 
you will be done by the underclass
men^ of today or tomorrow, and prob
ably done better.
The Sophs concluded that safety 
varied directly as the distance when 
Geek differentiated with them on the 
Plebe banquet, so they (dis) inte 
grated, with regard to Room 207.
The Economics Department says: 
If $100.00 had been put into a savings 
bank twenty years ago, it would now 
amount to over two hundred dollars 
and the owner could buy almost as 
much for it now as he could have 
bought for the original money at the 
time.
Noticed some Profs, acquired new 
earmuffs recently.
PLEBES HOLD BANQUET
LAST FRIDAY NIGHT
(Continued from Page One) 
were passed, two girls gave some 
trick dances, and the three Plebe pres
idents then talked. In addition to the 
three presidents, E. S. Mills, E. G. 
Wheeler, and R. W. Pell, the commit
tee in charge of the affair was com
posed of Myron N. Goodwin, John A. 
Cooke, and James P. Reid. .
The agreement made by the Sophs 
and Plebes last week was declared 
void after a conference With Dean of 
Men, Wednesday. The Plebe presi
dents left school immediately and 
early the next morning attempted to 
kidnap Ed Gilbert, the Science Soph 
president. Ed was taken handcuffed 
and in pajamas to the General Forbes 
Hotel but the Plebes were unable to 
keep him more than an hour. It must 
have been a humorous sight to see 
Ed chasing a taxi down Penn avenue 
early Thursday morning in  his pa
jamas and bare feet. The Soph presTime for the semi-annual hard-lUck 
stories now.
idents went to their usual classes all 
week. Friday noon, all Plebes on the 
campus were captured, lied, and were 
then carried to Welch Hall where 
their trousers were removed. The 
(Sophs collected all roaming Plebes 
and held them in this way until 5:30, 
so that they would not be compelled 
to entirely miss the banquet yet would 
be impressed with the power of the 
Sophs. No doubt the Plebes were 
fully impressed, but the Sophs are un
able to understand how there hap-, 
pened to be six pairs of trousers un
claimed after all the Plebes had gone. 
If any of the Plebes left without trou
sers, they can probably locate them 
at the school lost and found depart
ment.
LATEST STYLES
FORMAL DRESS 
At Lowest Price 
in City
$3-50
Dress Suit Rental 
Company
404 PITTSBURGH LIFE 
BUILDING 
PhoneSmithfield 294
WesleyI cant play billiards in 
the winter time at all.
GeorgeWhy not?
Wesley"Every time I get to 
knocking those three balls around, it 
reminds me of my overcoat.The 
Teaser.
24: What made you so late?
25: "I had a flat tire.
24: "Who was she?McGill Daily.
ALUMNI CALENDAR
THURSDAY, JANUARY 18 
Washington, D. C., Clnn Meeting.
Home of Kathryn Harris, 1505 Lamont Street, N. W.
FRIDAY, JANUARY 19
Buffalo Clan Meeting ................................................... Evening
SATURDAY, JANUARY 20 
Chicago Clan Luncheon, University Chib, 71 E. Monroe St., 1:15 P. M.
SUNDAY, JANUARY 21
RecitalDepartment of Music, C. I. T..................'...............8:00 P. M.
MONDAY, WEEK OFJANUARY 22
Cameraphone Theater, East Liberty...............Tartan Football Pictures
FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 2
Junior Prom.......................................................................Hotel Schenley
SATURDAY, FEBRUARY 3 
New York Clan Annual Banquet and Dnnee
__________Hotel Me Alpin, Broadway anil 34th St., New Yorlc Ci ty
Directory of Carnegie Clans
AKRONSecretary, A. C. Sprague, P.. F. D. No. 24, South Akron, O. 
BOSTONSecretary, J. F. Maxwell, 220 Billings Road, Wollaston, 
Mass.
BUFFALOSecretary, G. D. Martin, 523 East Ferry Street, 
CHICAGOSecretary, I. S. Stark, 1552 East 63rd Street. 
CINCINNATISecretary, Mary Zarobsky, 25 East Ninth Street. 
CLEVELANDSecretary, E. F. Lundeen, 12722 Barrington Avenue. 
Womens Clan Secretary, Mrs. E. C. Speaker, 10906 Woodstoek 
Avenue.
DAYTONSecretary, L. H. Siegler, 2505 West Riverview Avenue. 
DETROIT'Secretary, II. A. Neel, 1615 Cadillac Avenue.
ERIESecretary, K. L. Ivonnerth, 1024 West Twenty-seventh Street. 
ELLWOOD CITYActing Secretary, George Dunseith, Jr., East 
Cottage.
HARRISBURGSecretary, Mrs. A. G. Green, 419 Woodbine Street. 
HARTFORDActing Secretary, C. V. Carlson, Box 1320, care Lon
don & Lancashire Indemnity'Company.
HUNTINGTONSecretary, J. F. De Young, 808 Second St., E. 
JOHNSTOWNActing Secretary, R. W. WaU ice, 641 Homer St. 
LOS ANGELESActing Secretary, Mrs. Inf.i Heacock Pille, 865 
East Fifty-first Street.
MONONGAHELA VALLEYSecretary, C. A. Stone, 521 Washing
ton Avenue, Charleroi, Pa.
NEW CASTLEActing Secretary, P. W. Marceau, 202 Shenango St. 
NEW YORKSecretary, J. A. Cameron, 136 Park Avenue, West
chester Park, Tuckahoe, N. Y.
NORFOLKSecretary, J. W. Phillips, 611 Raleigh Avenue. 
PHILADELPHIASecretary, W. P. Lippincott, 600 Washington 
Avenue, Palmyra, N. J.
PITTSBURGHSecretary, A. J. Hynd, Carnegie Institute of Technology.
SHARONActing Secretary, W. J. Thomas, Jr., 95 W. Franklin St. 
ST. LOUISActing Secretary, M. A. Zeller, 1946 Railway Exchange 
Building.
WASHINGTON, D. C.Secretary, II. W. Haller, 1103 Munsey Bldg. 
YOUNGSTOWNSecretary, W. S. Scott, 65 East Earl Street. 
YOUNGSTOWNWomens Clan. Secretary, Miss Bernice Pickens, 
1422 Wick Avenue.
WATC1I THE CLAN COLUMN EVERY WEEK
A complete line of the 
most beautiful patterns 
ever assembled.
C. A. Heimert
3614 FORBES STREET 
Where ALL The Students Go.i
The FlavorLasts
Oakland Savings & 
Trust Company
Member Federal 
Reserve System
Capital.............................$200,000.00
Surplus and Undivided
Profits..........................$300,000.00
Deposits, Over - - - $4,000,000.00 
SAFE DEPOSIT BOXES 
FOR RENT
/SiBJ5SJS/5JS/5/SMS/EISMSI2i5ISI5J5IEIB/SISI5l^ 
GO TO THE
Tech Barber Shop
FOR YOUR HAIR CUTS 
Five Barbers at your service.
Cor. CRAIG and FORBES STS.
= Compliments = 
; of 
Skibo Inn |
^llllllllllllillllllllllllllllllllllilllilliT:
*Aufhammer & Evans
Hats and Mens Furnishings
6100 PENN AVENUE
ThPerscnal WrhihgMchi/i'
