NEXT WEEK 
STUDENT VOLUNTEER 
CONVENTION NUMBER®ht darían
TWO PLAYS 
LITTLE THEATRE 
FRIDAY - 4 P. M.
VOL. XIV. No. 13.
PRINCETON BEATS TECH IN 
FIRST 8ÂIÏIE OF SEASON
CARNEGIE INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY. PITTSBURGH, PENNSYLVANIA. 
FORMER TECH PHYSICAL DIRECTOR AT WORK IN FRANCE.
The first game on Tech’s Basketball 
Schedule for this season was played 
on our own floor Friday evening, 
against the fast Princeton quintette. 
Altho the playing of the Plaid »toy no 
riieans compared with that of J\e Tig­
ers in teamwork, the Jack of oxperi- 
ence of our men in playing together 
\yas a hindrance to be reckoned with. 
Tech was unable to present the best 
line-up possible, at least one of the 
best men being unavailable for the 
game. The playing showed a marked 
improvement in the second half, but 
the Tartans seemed unable to break 
through the guarding of the Prince­
ton live.
¦ Levy, who was substituted for 
Nichol near the end of the first half, 
showed confidence and experience on 
the floor, and with.Dosey who substi­
tuted for Lynn about the middle of 
the second half, drew the team to­
gether until it worked better as a 
whole than in the earlier' part of the 
Evening.
; Princeton is considered one of the 
best teams in the East—the play of 
the entire aggregation is featured by 
superior passing, accurate basket- 
shooting, and excellent teamwork. 
Opie, a former Peabody High star did 
some spectacular guarding. Dickson, 
at center, played a good game. Hyn- 
son shot the most baskets for Prince­
ton.
Hammond played the best game for 
Tech, perhaps, managing to drop the 
sphere through the ring three oimes.
The lineup was as follows:
Princeton, 35. Tech, 17.
Netts ................F................... Hammond
Hynson .......................... ........................................... .F. Lynn
Dickson ........................... ..................... ..C.IVIoon
Opie ........................G................. Nichols
Davis .................... . G.................. Carey
Substitutions—Princeton: King for 
Netts, Winfield for Hynson, Margetts 
for Opfe, Wittmer for Davis. Tech:
Dosey for Lynn, Levy for Nichols.
Field goals—Netts, Hynson 5, Dick­
son 4, Opie 3, Hammond 3, Dosey, 
Moon, Levy, Carey. Goals from fouls 
—Netts, 5 out of 9; King, 4 out of (5;
Lynn, 3'out of 8. Referee, Daugherty.
Time .of periods,..20 minutes.
STUDENTS TO VOTE ON 
PEACE TREATY QUESTION 
-SIK PROPOSITIONS OPEN
Discussion of Contents 
of Treaty Urged.
The plan for obtaining, by means of 
a nation-Wide college vote; sentiment 
as regards the ratification of the 
League and Treaty, has been approv 
cd by the Carnegie Institute of Tech­
nology. This plan, which has the 
endorsement of President Iiibben of 
Princeton, Lowell of Harvard, Hadley 
of Yale, and Butler of Columbia, is 
being carried out by a committee com­
posed of the editors of the daily pa­
pers of these universities.
The day of balloting has been fixed 
for the 13th of January. It is! sug­
gested, that between now and that 
time, every effort be made to encour­
age discussion of the subject, and to 
place all relevant information so that 
it will be easily accessible. The col­
leges are requested to maintain a 
strictly unbiased attitude and to em­
ploy no propaganda to influence thé 
result. Details regarding the methods 
of voting will, of course, vary with 
local conditions.It is hoped that in addition to af­
fording very interesting statistical in­
formation, the interest occasioned by 
the referendum will be instrumental 
in effecting a better understanding of 
the subject. Experience has shown 
that there is an acute lack of knowl­
edge, on the part of the public, con­
cerning the contents of the Treaty, 
which is now the paramount question 
before the nation.
The ballot form, which originally 
contained four propositions, has been 
modified to conform with suggestions 
of Senators Lodge and Hitchcock. It 
now includes six propositions.
1. I favor the ratification of the 
League and Treaty without amend­
ments or reservations.
2. I am opposed to> the. ratification 
of the League and the Treaty in any 
form.
3. I am in favor of the ratification
- (Continued on page 2.)
Above is. shown Frank A. Eyman, 
former physical director, track coach 
and later atheltic manager at Car­
negie Tech, with a group of his stu­
dents, whom he teaches the art of in­
structing in ¡athletics. He went over 
seas shortly after the United States 
entered the war for athletic work
"BETTY JUHL,” A NEW 
PLAY, TO BE GIVEN IN 
LITTLE THEATRE JAN. 16
among the United States soldiers and 
later drifted into the same work 
among the French. At present he :‘s 
under contract with the French gov­
ernment until September, 1920, when 
he will return home. He is marked 
by a cross in the photograph. Prior 
to going over seas Eyman went to
COMPETITION FOR ENTRANTS 
IN OLYMPIC GAMES BEGINS
Written by Owen White, 
Student of Drama School.
The first' production to be given in 
the Little Theatre this quarter, ac­
cording to present plans, will be a 
four-act historical play by Owen 
White, a student of the Drama 
School.
The presentation of this play will 
mark the first time in three years that 
a full length drama by a student of 
<110 department has been produced. 
“The- Weevils”, by Sara Evelyn Ben- 
net, which was played during the year 
191:6-17, is the only Tech play to run 
a full evening that has been produced 
here.
“Betty Jumel”, as the play is called, 
deals with an episode in the life of 
Aaron Burr, although that character 
•plays a part overshadowed by the 
woman whom he seeks to win, and 
who dominates the whole play,—“The 
Adorable Betty”.
The play is one of manners to a 
great extent, being laid in the butter­
fly life of New York in Colonial times, 
where the dandies and their fair 
charmers, despite their claims to 
democracy, aped the customs and 
dress of foreign courts.
The situations, at times as artificial 
as was the age to which they belong, 
again move with melodramatic speed 
and interest.
The- settings and costumes, which 
are being executed, as usual by the 
students, are new and elaborate, as­
suring the play a fitting presentation.
Mr. Hubert Osborne is directing 
the production, and is able to give 
the leading lady invaluable direction 
in a part such as those in which he 
has had the experience of directing 
Mrs. Fiske. The character of Betty 
Jumel is one of the type in which the 
latter likes very much to appear.
The Misses Hazel Beck and Caro­
lyn Mering and Messrs. Kenneth 
Thompson and Bishop Dickenson have 
the most important i;oles in the play.
---------3----------
FRIDAY AFTERNOON PLAYS.
The usual Friday afternoon per­
formance will .be given in the Little 
Theatre at-4:00 P. M. The bill will 
include “Dust of the Road” and “Back 
of the Yards”, two plays by Kenneth 
Sawyer Goodman. William Gilette of 
“Dear Brutus” now playing at the 
Nixon Theatre will be the guest of 
the Drama Department at the per­
formance.
CO-OPERATE
The li>20 Thistle Board invites you to contribute 
anything of student interest such as snap-shots, 
cartoons, etc. These put life in the Year Book. 
Drop them in the Post Office addressed to the 
Thistle. NE NE
The United States will lead the 
world in the seventh modern Olympic 
games in Antwerp, Belgium, next Au­
gust.
This is the belief of Samuel J. Dal­
las, president of the Amateur Athletic 
Union, and a member of the American 
Olympic games committee.
While every phrase of sporting ac­
tivity will take place in war-torn, his­
toric Belgium, it is toward track and 
field sports, swimming and boxing 
that President Dallas is directing his 
efforts. He has started a campaign on 
the cinder path, in swimming, and the 
roped arena for this winter and next 
spring, which will have its culmina­
tion in the gathering together of the 
greatest aggregation of athletes that 
has ever worn the Stars and Stripes in 
international competition.
It is to the track and field phase of 
athletic endeavor that the Athenians 
and Grecians first turned their atten­
tion. Track and field sports have al­
ways been the attraction and will be 
next summer when athletes from ev­
ery part of the world gather together 
to strive for the laurel wreath of vic­
tory.
Pittsburgh, Philadelphia or Boston 
will stage an athletic meet July. 17, 
which, while not having an interna­
tional touch, will be almost on a par 
with the set of sports which will come 
off a month later in Antwerp. The 
meet will be the junior and senior 
championships and will bring together 
a host of athletes who previously will 
have won honors in the 14 sectional 
meets and the various intercollegiate 
championships.
An effort will be made by Presi- 
Dallas to obtain the use of Franklin 
field to stage the final tryouts for the 
team. The National outdoor title 
meets were held at the Penn stadium 
last fall. It is thought the athletic 
authorities of Penn will permit of the 
games being held on the Red and 
Blue athletic field. Franklin field is 
the best place in the East to hold the 
sports, being in close proximity to 
New York, where the athletes will 
depart for Belgium.
Track Sports in August.
According to the announcement 
made by the Belgians, the track and 
field sports will take place at Ant­
werp between August 15 and 23.
In previous years, when the United 
States participated in the Olympiads, 
a series of try-outs were held to de­
cide the wearers of the Stars and 
Stripes.
Heretofore it has been the custom 
(Continued on page 3.)
the Springfield (Mass.) Y. M. C. A. 
College for final instructions in his 
work and while there suffered a brok­
en knee cap, which has bothered him 
ever since. It is mending well, but 
does not permit of as free movement 
of the limb as before the injury. This 
picture was enclosed in a letter sent 
by Eyman to Bert. Munhall.
TECH LIKELY TO TAKE UP INTER-COLLEGIATE BOXING
Sports Control Looks 
Favorably Upon Fi&ic Art.
Carnegie Tech is the first* of tri­
state schools to show semblance of 
¡action toward making boxing an in­
ter-collegiate sport, as recommended 
by the National Inter-Collegiate Ath­
letic Association. The Plaid institu­
tion athletic authorities received the 
recommendation with great interest, 
and it was announced yesterday that 
the question of inaugurating boxing 
at Tech will probably soon receive of­
ficial consideration. Sentiment seems 
unanimous in favor of the adoption 
of the mitt-slinging art. Dr. Marks, 
athletic director, stated that he ap­
proved of the step, and regarded it as 
an important and highly desirable 
move .
Penn State, first of neighboring col­
leges took up boxing this year on a 
large scale. It has intra-murel meets 
and teams, ready to compete with oth­
er colleges. Pennsylvania suggested 
to the National Association that box­
ing be adopted as a major sport. The 
association was influenced considerab­
ly by the fact that the sport proved 
its worth in the Great War, when it 
added greatly to the < morale of the 
soldiers and was a wonderful develop­
er of brawn and brain.
Others Expected to Follow.
It is believed. Pitt, Wash-Jeff and 
West Virginia and other tri-state 
schools will fall in line, just as soon 
as the boxing plan can be presented 
to and passed on by their athletic 
authorities, and local followers of col­
legiate competition will have another 
major sport to rave about.
Wash-Jeff athletic directors taught 
boxing many years ago, but for vari­
ous reasons was abandoned, mostly 
because of lack of interest.
The success of boxing as a major 
sport in the colleges will depend most­
ly on the calibre of instructors en­
gaged to teach the students. The 
teams will not be successful if put 
(Continued on page 3.)
TECH FIVE TO PLAY
Tech’s next basketball game will 
be played Saturday evening, January
10, when they meet the Westinghouse 
Club on the latter’s floor in Wilkins- 
burg. The Tech Plebes and the Club 
Reserves will play the preliminary 
game.
Plans are under way whereby Tech 
will take with the basketball players 
a relay team to run against the West­
inghouse relay team between halves 
of the varsity game.
1920 FOOTBALL SCHEDULE 
INCLUDES NEW OPPONENTS
The football schedule for 1920 has 
been completed except tor two games 
which, it is expected, will soon be 
filled. There are two ;new opponents 
on next season's card,..the University 
of Rochester and the University of 
Cincinnati, both games to be played 
on the home field.
The Plaid also meets Yale at New 
Haven, October second fox the first 
time since 191G.
The schedule as completed' to date 
reads as follows:
October 2—Yale (New Haven).
October 9—Open. •
October 1G—U. of Rochester
(Home).
October 23—U. of Cincinnati
(Home).
Oct. 30—Lehigh (Bethlehem).
Nov. 6—Allegheny (Home).
Nov. 13—Open.
Nov. 20—Wash. & Jeff (Home).
JANUARY 8, 1920.
Attention of All Arts Division 
Centered on Plans for Annual Ball
Big Affair of Year Now in Preparation.
Styles and Periods Discussed.
The topic which is perhaps upper­
most in the minds of all students of 
the Division of the Arts;—especially 
of those who have been here in pre­
vious years and know what an elabor­
ate and striking affair it has always 
been, is that of the annual ball.
The greatest discussion is always, 
of course, as to the period or nature 
of the costuming and decoration, 
which must in all cases allow of elab­
orate color and material effects. Last 
year’s Fete Fantastique was probably, 
the least restricted of any so far held, 
admitting of costumes of any period, 
only oriental in flavor.« • i '. I; '! :|l'^'Tir*-I
Nothing definite has been decided 
as to the nature of this year’s classic, 
but a number of suggestions have 
been made, and now is the time to 
get busy on the subject. A commit­
tee selected by the Division Student 
President is already at work, and the 
more interest and enthusiasm shown 
by those who should be interested, the 
greater possibility of an affair which 
will surpass all former balls.
After an object lesson such as “Bo­
hemia Unlimited” to show us how 
members of the Division of Arts can 
work together it ought to be easy 
to put over the biggest and best ball 
ever!
THE NEW RADIO CLUB
Only two or three members of the 
former Radio Society are back in 
school this year, and the books and ac­
counts of the old organization mys­
teriously disappeared during the war, 
so it was necessary to draw up a brand 
new constitution and set of by-laws. 
The work of organization consumed 
the latter part of the last quarter, but 
on December 5 the constitution and 
by-laws of the new Radio Club of 
Carnegie Institute of Technology was 
adopted by forty-three charter mem­
bers. From now on things will move rapidly.
There is much to be done. The big 
antennae which was formerly sus­
pended from the tower of Machinery 
Hall to the chimney of the Carnogio 
Institute, was dismantled during the 
war, following orders received from 
the government radio inspectors.
The 10 K.W. 500 cycle transmitting 
set needs overhauling and a new syn­
chronous rotary gap, and the only 
long distance receiving set now on 
hand belongs to a former member and 
technical advisor of the Club, Mr. 
Van Dyck, who is now with the Mar­
coni Company.
But the wealth of material among 
the members is better than ever. 
There are nine commercial radio ope­
rators among the charter members 
and there are more in school who will 
undoubtedly join when the activities 
of the Club are brought to'their no­
tice. It is planned to build several 
different types of transmitting and 
receiving sets both lor wireloss tele­
graphy and wireless telephone.
The high power transmitting sot 
will only bo operated by licensed com­
mercial operators, but the commercial 
operators form a board of directors 
to instruct the loss experienced mem­
bers in the theory and manipulation 
of the various radio instruments.
On the second Tuesday evening of 
each month, business meeting will be 
held in the tower room of Machin­
ery Hall. At these meetings, after 
the necessary routine business has 
been transacted papers will be read 
on various phases of radio work, fol­
lowed by general discussion. It is 
hoped in this way to familiarize each 
member in the theory and practice of 
modern system of radio communica­
tion.
Besides these monthly meetings, 
members will have access to the tow­
er room at other times, for practical 
experience on radio apparatus.
It is expected that a considerable 
amount of original research work will 
be accomplished by some of the more 
experienced radio men. The electrical 
engineering department have pledged 
their support and cooperation on all 
such projects, and the military depart­
ment, too, have given assurance of 
their wUi«1gness to assist in every 
way.
The next regular meeting will be 
January 13. This will be the final 
meeting of organization, and after 
that the Radio Club of Carnegie In­
stitute of Technology will be glad to 
welcome to its midst all students of 
Tech with a knowledge of radio, or 
with an earnest desire to acquire such 
knowledge.---------a--------7Three hundred alumni were back 
to the Home Coming at Wesleyan 
last week. It was said to be the 
greatest success in the history of the 
institution.
STUDENTS VOTE TO RETAIN COACH STEFFEN AT TECH
Negotiations arc now under way to 
sign Walter Steffens as coach of the 
Tech gridders again next season. Ev­
eryone connected with Tech realizes 
and appreciates the good work he has 
done here, and wants to sec him back 
as a part of our regular organization.
The consensus of opinion of all the 
students, as represented by vote taken 
in meetings of the undergraduate 
body, shows an overwhelming op- 
proval of his continuance in charge . 
of the Plaid eleven.
With the aid of such a man as the 
coach has proven himself to bo, and 
with the material now in sight for 
1920, Toeh should have one of tho 
finest teams on tho gridiron next sea­
son.
THE 1920 THISTLE
Tho student body may be interested 
in the progross of the 1920 Thistle. 
The first half of tho hook is ready for 
press. It is the remainder which Is 
the difficult part to compile, and the 
Board asks for tho co-operation of 
tho entire student body. This appeal 
is made more directly to the loadors 
of organizations and fraternities.
In the taking of plcturos—If tho 
date assigned by tho photographic 
editor is not agreeable, notify him and 
have tho date changed, but bo sure to 
notify him, Organization mombors 
he there on time and do not expect 
another picture to be taken if you arc 
late. Little helps like those are term­
ed co-operation. That Is what tho 
Thistle Board asks from the student 
body.
If Is Interesting to know that a 
Tech graduate is the head of the con­
cern which is printing the Thistle. 
Karl I*’. Hausauor, Industries '15 is a 
member of the firm of Baker, Haus­
auor, Jones, Inc., one of the largest 
printing establishments in the United 
States. Ho is taking a great inter­
est in the publication of the book, 
and this personal interest and knowl­
edge of Tech will be seen in the 1920 
Thistle.---------B----------
THE MISTAKES OF LIFE.
Judge McCormick says these are 
the thirteen mistakes of life:
1. To attempt to set up your own 
standards of right and wrong.
2. To try to measure the enjoyrrtent of others by your own.
3. To expect uniformity of opinions 
in this world.
4. To fail to make allowances for 
inexperience.
5. To endeavor to mold all disposi­
tions alike.
6. Not to yield to unimportant 
trifles.
7. To look for perfection in our own 
actions.
8. To worry ourselves and others 
about what cannot be remedied.
9. Not to help everybody, wherever, 
whoever and whenever we can.
10. To consider anything impossible 
that we cannot ourselves perform.
11. To believe only what our finite 
minds can grasp.
12. Not to make allowances for the 
weaknesses of others.
13. To estimate by some outside 
quality when it is that within which 
makes the man.
SENIORS
Your pictures must be taken for the Thistle on 
January 8, 9, 10 or 12th.
Trinity Court Studio,
310 Sixth Ave.
LAST CHANCE

---------------------------------------------------

PAGE TWO.THE TARTANTHURSDAY, JANUARY 8, 1920.
Published every week by undergraduates of the Carnegie Institute of 
Technology under the supervision of the Student Activities Board.
Entered in the postoffice of Pittsburgh as second-class matter.
This year $1.50
SUBSCRIPTION RATES 
5c the copyCanada, $1.75
Editor-in-Chief. . . . 
Business Manager
Phone Hazel 9422 
Phone Hazel 9425.
EDITORIAL
Managing Editor 
L. K. Paquin
Assistant Managing Editors 
F. I. Smith 
C. L. Lake 
News Editor 
J. T. Ames
Associate News Editors 
W. D. Hall
Athletic Editor
G. It. Goodrich
Assistant Athletic Editor
Circulation Manager
H. G. Atchlcy
School Editors
M. M. C. S.............Margaret J. Griffen
Science...................J. K. W. Macalpine
Industries............................J. R. Rudisill
Arts..................................T. It. Hinckley
Other Assistants
II. C. Haldeman 
It. G. Welsh 
L. A. McCardell 
Arthur Lu bin 
J. It. Barrow 
Gertrude Baton 
Margaret Stolzenbaugh 
Adele Gumbert 
Olga Kiefer
SECRETARY BAKER WRITES 
INTERESTING ARTICLE
BUSINESS STAFF 
D. A. Sillers 
N. E. Fox 
Wm. Obenour 
M. I. Cohen
TARTAN OFFICE..........................................................................Room 162, Design
Hours—1:00 to 4:00 Wednesdays.
12:00 to 1:00 Thursdays.
The Editor-in-Chief is responsible for the policy of this paper; the Man­
aging Editor for the make up.
All business communications should be sent to the Business Manage] 
Any delay in delivery of this paper or change of address should be reported 
at once.
The Tartan welcomes all communications of student interest, if signed, 
the signature to be withheld if desired.
All news items must be in the student postoffice, Central Building, before 
4:30 P. M. Fridays.
PROSPECTS FOR 1920.
A year filled with battles, both mental and physical, has just come to a 
close and no one can predict just what 1920 shall bring forth. Prospects 
are brighter than ever before. With student and faculty co-operation we are 
able to say that a wonderful year lies ahead of us.
We are assured that large strides will be taken toward the extension and 
enlargement of the athletic program. It is commonly known, that good 
school spirit comes with good representative teams. We hope that we will 
be able to realize our highest anticipations in regards to the athletic pro­
gram. No announcement of such nature has yet been made but it will be 
forthcoming soon as the result of the recent conference on this matter in 
which the Faculty, Alumni and students were represented.
Another change is noticed. Our alumni are taking a more active inter­
est in the ail’airs of their Alma Mater. The student body has long been 
waiting for this step. Now that it has been taken, let us safeguard it by 
supporting them as well as giving them support in the affairs of common 
interest.Our institution is growing. Many new courses have boon added and 
others enlarged, which offers inducements for a larger student body. Might 
the name of our institution be changed to something signifying a larger and 
more comprehensive thing than it now does (?).
Note has boon’ made of the numerous undercurrents of dissent among the 
student body. Wo are all craving for better things, yet we use the means of 
jndiffoi’onco as remedy. Would it not he bettor to got a spirit of -helpfulness 
and co-operation among ourselves? livery one knows tint trouble, yet they 
would rather talk about it ignorantly and unwisely and never try to lend 
a helping hand. Students, It is your school and whatever you make it, that 
is what it remains to bo. Don't blnmo any one but yourself if things go wrong. 
(Jot out and do something to remedy conditions.
Lot us, therefore, chango our tactics. IOvoryono root for and work for 
tho Carnegie Institute of Technology,
OFFICIAL ANNOUNCEMENTS 
Announcements of Speclnl Courses for Art Teachers and Supervisors 
on Friday and Saturday.
To moot the demand for Art Instruction by teachers and supervisors of 
art in the public and tho high schools of the Pittsburgh district, the following 
subjectXT are offered to such students by tho Division of tho Arts, Carnegie 
Institute of Technology, on Friday and Saturday of each week:
Friday
J) a. m. to 12 m. -Sketch Class. Drawing and painting from model
in costume ................................................................................................Mr. Taylor
1:30 to 4:30 p. m. Momentary Design...................Mr. Sollom and Mr. Bayard
7:30 to 10 p. m.—Sketch Class................................................................Mr. Bayord
7:30 to 10 p. m. Decoration.......................................................................Mr. Sollom
Saturday
9 a. m. to 12 m.—Still Life Painting.........................................................Miss Topp
9 a. m. to 12 m.—Cast Figure Drawing...................................................Mr. Bayard
9 a. m. to 12 m.—Costume Figure Sketching............................................Mr. Bayard
9 to 10 a. m.—Blackboard and Teaching Methods..............................Mr. Kirby
9 a. m. to 12 m.—Modeling......................................................................Mr. Salieres
Winter Quarter opens on January G, 1920. Fifteen (15) students can 
be admitted to these classes. Candidates for admission must have had some 
training and experience in drawing and color.----------$----------
NEW COURSES IN GIRL SCOUT LEADERSHIP 
Instructors: Miss Laura Pierce Holland, Director of Girl Scouts of Alle­
gheny County; members of the faculty of the Margaret Morrison Division; 
other specialists.
Schedule of Classes: Saturday, 10:00 a. m. to 12 m., and a suitable after­
noon, 4:00 to (5:00, Margaret Morrison Building; or two evenings per week, 
7:30 to 9:30, Margaret Morrison Building. If numbers warrant, classes will 
be held on both schedules. ?>
Term: January 15, 1920, to March 26, 1920.
Interviews and Registration: January 15 and 16, 1920, 7:30 to 9:30 p. m., 
Margaret Morrison Building. Classes begin January 19, 1920.
---------$----------
MARGARET MORRISON DIVISION NIGHT SCHOOL 
(Extension Department)
The Night School, or tho Extension Department, is intended for young 
women who are occupied during the day in business, teaching, or other work, 
and who wish to combine study with certain social features. Special and 
emergency courses for equipping women to meet immediate needs created 
by the after-war period may be offered, it' there is sufficient demand for such 
courses.
The students are organized into an informal club, under experienced 
leadership, and a self-governing body in their corporate life. There is a 
director of recreation to organize and direct social features and entertain­
ments.
The classes use the regular equipment, of the Margaret. Morrison Divi­
sion, and, in some cases, are taught by members of tlve Day (College) Fac­
ulty, but with suplomentary instruction where needed.
Each member of the group is expected to attend regularly her several 
classes, which are held on four evenings every week. Classes are scheduled 
on Mo nday, Tuesday, Wednesday, and Thursday evenings from 7:30 to 9:30.
The social program is closely interwoven with the study program, es­
pecially in such courses as Physical Education and Dramatic Presentations. 
The Night (Extension) courses are not credited toward a degree.
A new faculty club house was open­
ed recently at Oberlin. Not until last 
spring did the faculty begin to work 
together for a club house. Regular 
features will be the informal teas on 
Mondays and Wednesdays. Saturday 
night will be “club” night.”
The president of Ohio State Uni­
versity has been appointed to a new 
industrial commission by President 
Wilson. The conference was opened 
in Washington on December 1, for 
the purpose of investigating condi­
tions of capital and labor.
In an article written for the “Wing­
ed Head”, the P. A. A. official publi­
cation, of December, Secretary Thom­
as S. Baker of Carnegie Tech, writes 
in part as follows on the subject of 
Pittsburgh and Education:
/ 'The first impression one gets of the 
young men who attend the Pittsburgh 
institutions of collegiate grade is their 
unusual earnestness. They regard 
their education as a more vital mat­
ter than any set of undergraduates 
whom I have ever known. I have 
met chiefly students of technical sub­
jects — engineering in its many 
branches—and students of pure and 
applied science. These men look up­
on the work they are pursuing as a 
strictly professional preparation. 
They are willing to forego some of 
the much-prized pleasures of college 
life if by so doing they can, upon 
their graduation, be more competent 
and proficient men. This spirit of 
earnestness and professional zeal is 
one of the greatest assets that an edu­
cational institution can have, and I 
attribute this quality in the under­
graduate life very largely to Pitts­
burgh itself. Students of engineer­
ing and kindred subjects have before 
them constantly the demands of the 
Pittsburgh industrial plants for high­
ly trained men, and they see that it 
will be possible to gain an almost im 
mediate return and a comparatively 
large return on every bit of hard 
work that they do during their stu­
dent days.'"’.
It would-be difficult to conceive of 
a more favorable location for great 
scientific schools than this city. The 
inspiration of scientific inquiry that 
comes to both faculties and students 
from the highly specialized manufac­
turers of this district can hardly be 
over-estimated.
Pittsburgh will some day become 
one of the great educational centers 
of the United States. The very large 
increase this year in the number of 
students who attend the local colleges 
is significant. This extraordinary 
growth is likely to continue. As is 
to be expected, the present interest is 
chiefly in practical subjects, and the 
natural relation that exists between 
science and the industries of the Pitts­
burgh region will continue to make 
education along scientific lines most 
prominent; but progress in science 
can not be obtained if attention 
given merely to things that are useful 
and that can be turned to immediate 
profit. There must be institutions 
capable of devoting large resource, 
to research—great laboratories where 
advanced work in pure science can be 
done. And with the growth of Pitts­
burgh as an educational center one 
may expect the development of the 
work of investigation in the more ab­
stract phases of research.
While Pittsburgh is a most favor­
able field for the advancement of 
technical studies, and while we may 
expect a more rapid progress in this 
branch of education than in tho pur 
suit of purely academic subjects, it 
wi II be found that it is impossible to 
go forward in tho direction of scien­
tific study without carrying along oth 
or branches of educational work. Just 
at present tho most authoritative en­
gineers in this country are urging that 
the training that should be given to 
students of engineering shall be 
broader than ever before. They claim 
that it is not sufficient for tho spe­
cialist to know merely the special 
branches of his profession. He must 
have an understanding of the relation 
which his own profession boars to 
other fields of knowledge. With this 
widening of tho scope of technical 
education it will be impossible to have 
great schools of science or engineer­
ing or great technical schools with­
out a quickening of all phases of edu­cation.
No discussion, even the briefest, of 
education in Pittsburgh should be 
concluded at the present time without 
at least a reference to the American 
ization. It is a subject about which 
we can all make phrases, but the task 
of changing foreigners with a malign 
opposition to all governmental auth­
ority into Americans with a sense of 
responsibility to the country that 
gives them independence and their 
livelihood, is not for phrase makers 
or amateur economists or profession­
al uplifters. It is a subject that must 
be dealt with by practical men of af­
fairs with such help as can be secur­
ed from teachers who understand the 
limitations and vagaries of the mind 
of the adult foreigner. It is a diffi 
cult phase of education, but one of 
the most important, and here is the 
place where any rational program of 
Americanization should be encourag­ed and supported.
Pittsburgh has, through the insti­
tutions already established, accom­
plished an extraordinary work, but I 
look for a far greater interest in edu­
cation and scholarship and research 
and the starting point for this future 
development, lies in the need which 
exists in the great industrial plants, of 
men with exact scientific knowledge 
and thorough technical training.
.........--------------
STUDENTS TO VOTE ON
PEACE TREATY QUESTION 
(Continued from page 1.)
of the League and the Treaty, but 
only with the specific reservations as 
voted by the majority of the Senate.
•1. 1 favor any compromise under
servations which will make possible 
the immediate ratification of the Treaty and the League.
5. I favor the government proceed­
ing to make peace with Germany at 
once and leaving the question of a
League of Nations to be settled after­
wards.
6. I favor a compromise of the res­
ervations of such a character as will 
avoid the danger of defeating ratifica­
tion, while still making clear that 
America can be involved in war only 
by a declaration of Congress, that do­
mestic questions and the Monroe Doc­
trine are entirely outside of the juris­
diction of the League, that plural 
votes of any member are all disqual­
ified in the event of a dispute where- 
we are disqualified from voting, 
and that on deciding to withdraw we 
are to be the judge of whether our 
obligations have been met.
It is Highly desirable that the Car­
negie Institute of Technology will ful­
ly cooperate in this plan, and use ev­
ery means to secure a complete and 
intelligent vote. Any step toward the 
promotion of active interest among 
colleges in the world’s affairs, is com­
mendable. The present trend of 
events, as the recent cooperative plan 
of M. I. T., indicates that colleges 
are, through closer contact with out­
side matters, becoming more and 
more active factors in the national 
life.
SAVE TIME—by having your shoes 
repaired while you wait.
NEWMAN- HARRIS
of Pittsburgh
FINE SHOE REPAIRING
Special facilities for repairing 
ladies shoes.
3811 Fifth Ave., Corner Bouquet St.
OAKLAND 
SAVINGS & TRUST 
COMPANY
Member Federal Reserve System 
Capital - - - $200,000.00 
Surplus and Undivided
Profits - - $260,000.90 
Deposits, Over - $4,000,000.00
SAFE DEPOSIT BOXES FOR RENT
TECH BARBER SHOP "
NEAREST TO TECH
Cor. Craig and Forbes Ì
FRED FARGEL, Proprietor.
Nearest and Best Laundry 
Agency.
ft»
FOR COLLEGE MEN
There is an excelling style atmosphere 
about our clothes which make them instant­
ly popular.
They appeal to college men not alone be­
cause of their dominating style, but largely 
on account of the high-grade tailoring and 
serviceable fabrics.
Our chain-store system affords worth-while 
savings. Visit our store nearest you and be 
convinced. Correct fit and satisfaction 
guaranteed.
OUR OWN RETAIL STORES AT
AKRON, Ohio...........................124 S. Main St.
CLEVELAND, Ohio. 503-505 Prospect Ave.
MILWAUKEE, Wis.................192 Third St.
PITTSBURGH, Pa..................507 Market St.
PITTSBURGH, Pa. . .209-11 Smithfield St.
PITTSBURGH, Pa............932 Liberty Ave.
READING, Pa.............................751 Penn St.
SCHENECTADY, N. Y.. .302-304 State St.
SYRACUSE, N. Y...............138 S. Salina St.
TERRE HAUTE, Ind. .. .410 Wabash Ave.
WILKES-BARRE, Pa............66 S. Main St.
YOUNGSTOWN O.. 107-109 W. Federal St. 
We will open stores at Scranton, Pa., and 
Trenton, N. J., early in 1920.
•8fS!iaOMSMSMS/S/3/3MS/S®SMSJiM5J5J5MSi5ioIIS/p}fSISIHfa/n)inJr»arorararararararaRni
HELLO, BILL, MEET ME AT THE
OAKLAND KITCHEN
116 OAKLAND AVENUE
Mention the TARTAN when buying of these Advertisers.

---------------------------------------------------

THURSDAY, JANUARY 8, 1920.THE TARTANPAGE THREE.
OAKLAND EXPRESS AND 
TRANSFER COMPANi |
Bell Phones 578 & 9169 Schenley jj 
P. 4. A. 1092-R |
229 ATWOOD STREET 
PITTSBURGH, PA.
Household Goods Moved, Stored, 
Packed and Shipped.
Grace Church
(Reformed)BAYARD and DITH RIDGE STREET8 FREDERICK C. NAU. Minister. SERVICES:Sunday School—9:45 A. M.Morning Worship—11 A. M. Christian Endeavor—7 P. M. Popular Evening Services at 7:45. Sermons for Head and Heart. Hearty Welcome for All.
v*:~:
BELLEFIELD PRESBYTERIAN i CHURCH ?;
BellefieId and Fifth Avenues
Rev.-Robert MacGowan, D. D M mister.
Preaching Services 11 and 8. 
Sunday school at 10. *iChristian Endeavor at 7. 3We want the Tech boys to at- 4 tend our services and learn to ) know us as the congregation of 2 "Friendly People," A hearty welcome awaits you. *£
Third United 
Presbyterian Church
DR. HUGH B. SPEER, Pastor 
Shady and Northumberland Avenues 
Graded Sunday School, 10:00 A. M. Preaching Services, 11:00 A. M. and 8:00 P. M.Young People’s Service, 7:00 P. M. Brief and Warm-Hearted Messages. A cordial welcome to all.
A8CEN8ION EPISCOPAL CHURCH Ellsworth Avenue and Neville Street DR. WYATT BROWN, Rector DR. ROSS R. CALVIN, Assistant. Sunday Services, 8:00 A. M., 11:00 A. M. and 8:00 P. M.College Men’s Bible Class at 10:00, led by Dr. Calvin.All Students Genuinely Welcome.
ST. PAUL’S CATHEDRAL 
Fifth Ave. and Craig St.Masses: 6:30, 8:00, 9:00, 10:00 and11:00 A. M. on Sundays and Holy Days.Vespers on Sundays at 7:30 P M. Perw 58. Middle Aisle, for Tech Stu
. LUDEBUEHL AND SON
PENN AND Fn * N,KSTOWN AVENUE8
$8.50 to $15.50
CUT DOWN YOUR SHOE EXPENSE by buying better shoes. You will find them far cheaper to wear than shoes which are not so high in quality.
Our new models for FALL and WINTER are now in, and they are full of snap—just suitable for the college man.
THE PLACE WHERE
STUDENTS
TAKE THEIR SHOES
Relief ield 
Shoe Repairing Co.
Across from the Library
TECH LIKELY TO TAKE UP
NTER-COLLEGIATE BOXING 
(Continued from page 1.) 
in charge of the ordinary physical di­
rectors, football coaches or basketball 
coaches. To teach boxing requires a 
thorough knowledge of the fine points 
of the game, which is acquired only 
through actual experience. These in­
structors should be selected with 
the same consideration as that given 
the selection of the head football 
coach.
Good Coaches Right at Home.
In this vicinity there are men who 
have followed the ring for years in 
various capacities and have the repu­
tation of having developed some of 
the best fighters in the ring’s history. 
Jimmy Dime, Billy Corcoran and men 
of this type, with the right material, 
would turn out great teams.
Such men as these men who have 
a knowledge of th'e game gained thru 
many years of study and who are 
gentlemen who have the knack of im­
parting their knowledge in an intelli­
gent manner, would make an instant 
success of boxing as a college sport. 
There are scores of such capable in­
structors right here in the home dis­
trict.
If boxing as a major sport in the 
colleges is to be successful, it will 
have to be undertaken whole-hearted­
ly. With pastmasters of the game as 
instructors, there would not be any 
doubt about the success of the enter­
prise, physically and financially.----------a----------
COMPETITION FOR ENTRANTS 
IN OLYMPIC GAMES 
(Continued from page 1.) 
for the American Olympic committee 
to pick the athletes in June. The 
June date for selection timed with 
the various intcrcollegiate meets held 
in the East, the Middle West and the 
Far West.
The candidates were then in the 
best of shape and they did not have 
much trouble keeping in condition for 
the itnernational sports.
The lateness of the date of the 
sports in Belgium has necessitated a 
complete change of plans for holding 
the trials. The 14 district champion­
ship meets of the A. A. U. will bo hold 
as soon as the college athletes can be 
gotten together, in the early part of 
June. At the four previous sets of 
Olympic games, held in Paris, St. 
Louis, London and Stockholm, the 
track and field sports were held dur­
ing the last week of June and the first 
three weeks of July.
The competition in the Penn Relay 
Carnival, the Middle West title meet, 
the Intercollegiate Conference meet, 
the Pacific Coast Intercollegiate 
sports and the forty-escond annual in- 
tercollegiates at either Cambridge or 
Franklin field will also be closely fol-
Tower clockm•wound auto­ifmatically byi *ione-half horse
power motor.
Magnetic sorting 
machine, oper­
ated by a two- 
horsepower mo­
tor. separates 
brass from iron.
Electricity—
the Master Force in Manufacturing
T
HE marvels of electricity have revolutionized our manu­
facturing industries. With belts and pulleys replaced 
by electric motors operating automatic—almost human— 
machines, many a slow and tedious process has been elimi­
nated. The factory worker’s task of yesterday is made 
pleasant by his command of this magic power.
The Crane Company’s plant at Chicago—electrical through­
out—is a model of industrial efficiency. Its 10,000 horse­
power of driving energy is brought by three small wires 
from a distant power plant. Then electricity drives the 
machinery which handles the coal for heating, cuts the steel, 
sifts the sand and sorts the material—in fact does everything 
from scrubbing the floor to winding the clock.
Such an institution is marvelous—superhuman—made thus 
by the man-multiplying force of electricity. The General 
Electric Company has been instrumental in effecting this 
evolution. First, by developing successful electric gener­
ating and transmission apparatus to furnish economically 
this modern form of power. Secondly, through many years 
of active co-operation with hundreds of manufacturers, it 
has mastered the art of applying the use of electrical energy 
to a multitude of needs. And finally, through branch 
offices and other distributing channels, its products are 
made accessible to all.
Electric
Sales Offices in all large cities.-
lowed in order to pick out the best of 
the bunch to represent this country.
Arrangements are being made by 
the committeev unless the plans al­
ready made by the Belgians are 
changed, to take the athletic teams to 
Belgium in two sections. This is duo 
to the holding of the swimming and 
rowing contests a month after the 
track and field sports and the boxing.
Dawson Robertson, trainer of tho Penn athletic teams* is being boomed 
as trainer for the Olympic team. He 
is the logical man for the position, 
having served under the late Mike 
Murphy when the former Yale and 
Penn track instructor took charge of 
the 1912 team at Stockholm.
Every one of the events which were 
held in connection with the Olympic 
games at London and Stockholm have 
been included on . tl^e • Belgian pro­
gram.
There has been some discussion 
relative to the decathlon,, winch first 
made its appearance in, competition at Stockholm, and which was won by 
Jim Thorpe, the noted Indian athlete. 
Thorpe, however, was declared a pro­
fessional and was disqualified.
The Belgians, it is reported, have 
dropped the event, but, until a definite 
decision is reached, the athletes in 
this country will continue to train for 
the 10 events.
The Americans are more in favor 
of the pentathlon, which also went to 
Thorpe at Stockholm, and for. which 
J. Howard Berry, the former Penn all- 
around athlete,, is now in training. 
Berry won the collegiate pentathlon 
two consecutive years . prior, at fche 
Penn relay carnival. If he can regain 
his old-time form he should bo able 
to carry ofl’ the premier honors at 
Antwerp. However, he will have keen 
competition from Bob Le Gendre, the 
Georgetown star, who won the pcn- 
tahrlon at the 1910 Penn relays.
While -the United States will be 
well represented in all the track and 
field events, interest will be centered 
in the revival of the marathon.
At this time arrangements are be­
ing made to hold races in various sec­
tions of the country. The Brooklyn- 
Sea Gate marathon, which has not 
been held since 1915, will be revived 
on Monday, February 23, and it is
expected a big batch of long distance runners will compete.
The course of the marathon in Bel­
gium will be over historic ground 
and will be likened unto the days of 
long ago,, when the Athenians trav­
ersed the road from Marathon to 
Athens bearing the news of the vic­
tory over the Persians.
The marathon race from Brussels 
to Antwerp will be along the same 
roads over which the German army 
advanced in its initial attack on Bel­
gium at the beginning of the world 
war in August, 1914.
The runners will pass through Mu- 
lines, famous for the determined stand 
of Cardinal Mereier and the cathed­
ral. which the Germans used as an ob­
servation post in their attack on Ant­
werp.
At many points along the 2 miles 
there will be evidence of the fierce 
struggle in the early days of the war.
Swimming will be given as much at­
tention by the A. A. U. officials as 
will be given to track and field sports, 
although not as elaborate a program 
will be carried out.
The usual number of indoor and 
outdoor championships for men and 
women will be held in various sec­
tions of the country.
In the latter part of June final trials 
for the swimming team will be held.
¦ 2/cU di c!J ^| TRANSITS AND LEVELS3 ALL SUPPLIES FOR THE
^ DRAFTING ROOM
Engineers' Equipment, Instru­ments of Precision, Blue Print and Brown Print Papers and Cloths.
B. K. ELLIOTT CO.
U 126 SIXTH STREETg/gjgjgjgjgfgfgjigjgjgj^fnifnKnifnifnifniTOfafninafnifiafjgiim
The Mellon National Bank is 
one of the most thoroughly 
organized, strongest financial 
institutions in the country.
It is in a position to handle 
any account, large or small, 
with care and compctency.
MELLON NATIONAL
Pittsburgh, Pa,
If your fountain pen is in need of 
repairs, if you need a new, satisfactory 
pen or eversluirp pencil, stationery, 
dance programs, favors, special felt 
goods or Tech recognition pins, call 
at SINGER PEN & GIFT SHOP in 
Jenkins Arcade.—Adv.
Boll—Sohonloy 380
MISS O LEARY
(Formerly with >T. E. T. Slnmmn) 
DRY CLEANING—REPAIRING 
Liulios* and Mon’s Glothos, Garpota 
Work Gunrnnteed and Turned Out on Short Notice.
Will cnll for nil grossing: and oloanlnR lit Frut Houses.
3033 FORBES STREET (Oakland) 
PITTSBURGH, PA.
¦niDliliBllllllltM
SKIB0 INN
EATS
Cigars and Candy
\
Just enough Turkish*
A
T most of the places where straight Turkish cigarettes used to huve the “call” Fatima is now the leading cigarette. Here are a few of these places—just as examples of Fatima’s popularity among men who really know how to judge cigarettes:
New York
Hotel Belmont Hotel Manhattan Hotel McAlpin Stock Exchange Waldorf-Astoria
Palm Beach 
The Breakers
Philadelphia 
Ritz-Carlton Stock Exchange
Washington 
The Capitol Building
Atlantic City
Marlborough -Blenheim Hotel Traymore
Boston
Hotel Touraine Hotel Copley Plaza Harvard Club Stock Exchange
Chicago 
Auditorium Hotel Congress Motel
Narragansett Pier
Casino
*Patima contains morn Turkish than 
any other Turkish blend cigarette.
- alongabout6 o’clock
how does vjour cigarette
begin to taste ?
NOTE—This ij the severest test to 
which you can ¡rut your cigarette.
N
EARLY dinner time you’ve been 
smoking all day- How is your ciga­
rette appetite?
If it is tired and jaded—in other word» 
unless it’s as fresh, crisp and snappy as 
right after breakfast—you ought to look 
around for a different brand of cigarettes.
The right brand (when you find it) will 
let you feel fine and fit and smoke-hungry 
clear up to bed-time.
It will give you enough of the delicious 
flavor of Turkish tobacco—but it will be 
so blended as to off-set the over-richness 
or heaviness that comes from smoking 
too much Turkish.
The one cigarette which to-day seems 
to be attracting most men who tire of 
straight Turkish is Fatima (see at left).
As soon as you are ready to look seri­
ously into the cigarette question, put 
Fatimas to the 6 o’clock test.
A Sensible Cicjarelle

---------------------------------------------------

’mfâ&mWRIGLEYS
WM'•-fco-,/ , »..> I
Th 'I ‘ 1 'U:
DRIVEPULLEY68 R.P.My-OUTLINE OF MAIN DRIVE
BROOKLYN ELEVATOR 6- MILLING CO.
Brooklyn, N.Y.
DRIVENyPULLEY
I / ........... H, P Required 1501 / Belt Speed 2990 F.RMI R.P.M. Drive Pulley 68— Diam. Drive Pulley 14'O”I Diam. Driven Pulley 4' 8"
Specified GOODYEAR BELT 30"6Ply
BLUE STREAK CONSTRUCTION
THE CAMPUS ANVIL
the high cost of living. It is impos­
sible to believe in any place that bums 
so much fuel.
Announcing the Brown Derby 
Contest.
It has come to our notice that every 
week, in fact, daily, some of the flow­
er of our brilliant galaxy of exponents 
of higher education, students and 
more noticeably, perhaps, professors, 
ire guilty of making what might be 
-jailed breaks, or as the French would 
ay, “Fox Passes".
In cognizance of this fact, and .o 
rive these gentlemen the publicity 
which is their just due; counteract- 
'ng at the same time the horror» of 
;ecklerism—beaneryitis — mid-years- 
post-vacation blues, the Anvil has ¿it 
;reat expense purchased, or at .'east 
secured, a brilliant Sienna hued head­
piece of Primrose-Dockstader fame.
This unique and valuable prize will 
be awarded each week to the person 
'¦;iving rise or vent to the most fla­
grant example. Ten consecutive suc­
cesses in this line will entitle the 
lucky man or otherwise, as the case 
may be, to full and lasting title, or in 
the probable event of his violent de­
mise, to his heirs or assigns.
To take the bushels off these can­
dles, which were not born to blush 
unseen, as ’twere, every one is cord­
ially invited to bring these shining 
examples to the light. Let no one 
be hampered by qualms of conscience. 
Send these masterpieces to»the Anvil 
Editor. The other fellow will not hes­
itate to do the same by you. At least, 
we hope he won’t. All right, every­
body. Let’s Go!* * *
ALAS, POOR YORICK—
Just think of all the Plebes who 
bought books of Tartan receipts at 
the beginning of the year and only 
used up to No. 12. Oh well, they can 
put ’em on the mantel to show that 
they once entered Tech, anyway.
The above need not, 011 second 
thought, be confined to Plebes.>l> >l< Hi
THE CONVENTION.
A lot of them went to Des Moines, 
Tho it took quite a few hard-earned 
coins.
They heard a preacher tell—
“College youths go to h------”
And we bet that they all up and joins!>it * *
A SORE SCORE.
We bet that there are at the pres­
ent time twenty “Senior Mechanicals” 
in the Division of Science and En­
gineering who dearly love a certain 
professor of mathematics in that Di­
vision. And we bet we know the 
reason why.41 H< H< ’ 1
AND MOST SCHEDULES—
Ain’t Tech Life Irregular?H< * *
WE WONDER.
Mag Murph announces a new Camp 
Fire Girls’ course. We .have a sort 
of hazy notion that the latter go in 
for Indian tactics and such. If that 
is the case, they might well come oVer 
to Design and get a few pointers 
from the 1C. E. V.’s, who are experts 
when it comes to gathering scalps and 
other symbols of victorious encounter.
Famous Obstacles.
Mid-Year.
Eighteenth Amendment.
Profs.
Veils.
Little Brothers.
Interviews with the Dean.
Uppor-cluBsmon and Sophs. (For 
Plebes.
Girl’s Dorm Rules.
8:210 Classes.
Financial Embarrassments.
Wide Ilats.
East Liberty.
PASSE.
Dear Anv. Ed.—What has become 
of that handsome drama student who 
used to stroll bare-headed up the 
board-walk reciting Shakespeare and 
Oscar Wilde to himself?
Clarisse, of P. & D.
Clarisse—We don’t know, but we 
suspish.—Ed.* * *
A SUGGESTION.
We have heard nothing concerning 
the increased wage demand nor a 
strike since the case of one prof. was 
so well taken care of by the donation 
of a pair of shoes.
Might not the crisis be permanently 
avoided by the “Bundle Day” idea?* * *
THE POWER OF THE PRESS.
The Banquet at the William Penn 
Hotel which opened the Victory Con­
vention of the Phi Epsilon Pi Fra­
ternity in Pittsburgh, was a great 
success.
We know, as two members of the 
Tartan staff were present as—guests? 
No—as waiters!
And they say Drama ain’t practical! 
I Overheard at the William Penn) 
Drama student, with a sob in his 
voice—“Yes, we are students who are 
doing this menial work in an effort 
to pay our expenses while we are get­
ting an education—My God, Mister, 
it’s hard.” Result—One Dollar tip.
The largest electric sign 
In the world advertises
TPADE
A
W D C Pipe is the biggest value that the World’s 
Largest Pipe Manufacturers can put into a pipe. The 
W D C is a good, satisfying smoke, and bound to break in 
sweet and mellow every time. Highest quality of bit, band 
and bowl; craftsmanship of the highest order — that’s what 
we mean by biggest value. Ask any good dealer.WRIGLEYS
A SHORT BALLAD.
Explaining why New Year’s Eve 
was celebrated in so decorous a man­
ner this year.
NEAR
BEER.on Times Square. New York 
City: it is 250 feet long. 70 
feet high. Made ST of 17.286 
electric lamps.
The fountains Play, the 
trade mark changes, read­
ing alternately WRIGLEV’S 
SPEARMINT. DOUBLEMINT, 
and JUICY FRUIT, and the 
Spearmen “do a turn.”
WM. DEMUTH 8c CO.. NEW YORKWould You Like To Know 
Why we left Science.• + * *
Math.
“Antimony” Wurts.
Solid Analyt.
Series of lectures by Prof. K------,
who has just turned seventy.
Expense of Hydrogen Generators. 
Heart-to-heart talk with the Dean. 
(By Request.)
We never wanted to be an engineer, 
anyway. Deucedly dirty job, y’know. * * *
Why we entered Design.* * *
Girls.
Stone Benches in Corridors. 
Aesthetic Dancing.
K. E. V.
The Ball.
No Math.
Temperament.
Girls Twice.
Cozy Nooks.
Life Class.
Charettes.
Deucedly jolly atmosphere, old 
dear.
GIRLS.
DO YOU DANCE?
DANCING LESSONS'CLASS AND PRIVATE
BELL PHONE XCRAIG AND FORBES
This siszn Is seen nightly by about 
500.000 people from all over the world.
Sealed
Tight
SCANDAL!!
It is reported, or at least whispered, 
in the more select circles that the 
adorable Madam Betty came upon 
Marshall Joyce unexpectedly in the 
William Penn last week, and found 
him conversing with a chambermaid! 
’Twill cause a pretty to-do, no doubt.Broad and Sheridan Ave. 
All Kinds of Batteries 
Repaired and Recharged
Jhxiae
SERVICE
WEEKLY HEALTH HINT.
Don’t ask the beefy individual who 
came over to Industries from Science 
this quarter why he changed his 
course.
¿»AXOJM'3
//re Jiuisterdziiivt/ig pend/'
A man is judged by the 
pencil he keeps,
A well-sharpened Dixon’s
I J'lADK
STUDENTS WELCOME 
Fred Suddaby’s Cafeteria
BUREAU OF MINES BUILDING
11 A. M. to 2 P. M. Ever}' School Day
GREAT EATS AT 
THE SCHENLEY LUNCH 
FORBES AND CRAIG STREETS
FRED SUDDABY, ProprietorBelting Costs—and the G. T. M
A study of plant efficiency makes clear 
the fact that a belt is really a machine 
part. Not only does the quality of the 
belting used determine the effectiveness 
of the drive, but the nature of the 
belt may have a very important action 
on the driving and driven machinery. 
A belt that has to be kept tight, for 
example, is liable to cause overheating 
of the engine bearings.
The economies a good belt can effect 
extend throughout the plant operation, 
and the first step in securing them is to 
make sure that the belt installed is 
specified scientifically to the duty re­
quired of it.
The Brooklyn Elevator & Milling
Company improved its main drive 
and reduced its belting costs by in­
stalling a belt recommended on the 
basis of an expert analysis by the 
G. T. M.—Goodyear Technical Man.
An idler has been retired, and $667.54 
saved.
A 30-inch, 6-ply Goodyear Blue Streak
that cost $229.60 less in the first place 
than the belt they had been using has 
given economical service for 27 months 
now on a drive that wore out ordinary 
belts in about 18 months. So, besides 
the initial saving, the Company credits 
the Goodyear B1 je Streak with an oper­
ating saving of at least $437.94. More­
over, the Goodyear Blue Streak has 
caused no trouble and needed no re­
pairs, as agáinst plenty of both on its 
short-lived prede cessor.
The relation of belting to factory effi­
ciency is treated in detail in the Good­
year Mechanical Goods Encyclopedia. 
Students and teachers of engineering 
are invited to write for a copy to the 
Mechanical Goods Department, The 
Goodyear Tire & Rubber Company, 
Akron, Ohio.
Formerly of William Penn and Fort Pitt Hotel 
I AM SERVING
Clean, Wholesome and Home Cooked Dinner for 35c
---------------At---------------
STANDARD RESTAURANT 
3621 FIFTH AVENUE NEAR ATWOOD STREET
OPEN DAY AND NIGHT PARK 411-R
EAT AT THE
SAVOY RESTAURANT
SPECIAL STUDENT’S LUNCH
3807 FIFTH AVE.
PRIZE CONTEST.
The Anvil oilers a valuable prize to 
the person who sends to this office the 
best poem of four lines on the sub­
ject. “Our Beautiful Campus”. The 
poem must accurately describe the 
campus, and must contain the words 
“stately, awe-inspiring, graceful, ver­
dant, luxurious, and delightful”. Other 
than this, you may use your qwn 
judgment.
The prize will consist of the choice 
of two articles, either a brown derby 
or a crocheted bicycle.
DON’T MISS THE
BIG HOUSEWARMING
-------AT---------
OAKLAND COMMUNITY HOUSE
3904 Forbes Street.
MONDAY, JANUARY 12....................COMMUNITY NIGHT.
TUESDAY, JANUARY 13.........................STUDENT NIGHT.
"A GOOD TIME FOR EVERYONE.”
Mention solid analyt.—Ed,
IMAGINE SATAN’S COAL BILL!
The doctrine of the old-fashioned 
hell has been completely shattered by
PAGE FOUR.THE TARTANTHURSDAY, JANUARY 8, 1920.
