The Carnegie Tartan
Vol. 38 No. 54CARNEGIE INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY, PITTSBURGH, PA.TUESDAY, APRIL 17, 1945
Committee Starts 
Plans for Beanery
The first meeting of the reorganiz­
ed President’s Conference Comittee 
was held last Tuesday evening in 
the Union. This committee, made up 
of chairmen of the most important 
organizations on the campus and 
four members-at-large, was organ­
ized to meet with the president and 
discuss matters concerning both 
the administration and the students.
Several items were brought up at 
the meeting and the committee de­
cided finally on most of them. One 
or two, however, were left for fur­
ther investigation.
It was announced that the present 
Canteen would be razed and a can­
teen to replace it would be built in 
the building now housing the Navy 
Mess Hall. Suggestions for the final 
plans and decorations of the new 
hangout are for a good part expect­
ed from the student body.
In view of the fast that most pub­
lic places have revised their plans 
for the celebration of V-E day, the 
committee agreed that Carnegie 
Tech also change the former an­
nouncement to read that classes and 
activities continue as usual when 
General Eisenhower’s announce­
ment is made. Since it is evident 
that V-E day will not be the end of 
American operations in either 
Europe or Pacific area, it hardly 
seems wise that a special celebra­
tion be held when it is announced.
With the opening of the Beanery, 
the problem of the need of the Car­
negie Inn was mentioned. After due 
consideration of the Inn being used 
for small social affairs, and other 
purposes, ij was decide to close the 
building entirely and use it for stor­
age for school materials and equip­
ment. This means that small affairs 
would be held in either Thistle Hall 
or the Exhibition Room in the Fine 
Arts Building, and—the only eating 
place on the campus would be the 
Beanery and the New Canteen.
Freshman regulations were men­
tioned and the opinion of the com­
mittee was that they be adopted for 
the freshmen entering in the Fall 
Semester.
The committee gave its approval 
to the changes made in the newly 
adopted Student Council Constitu­
tion. These changes were made to 
conform with certain present day 
conditions. Obviously the Student 
Conference Committee should have 
the cooperation of the student body 
for its represents that group exclu­
sively. Any decisions made by the 
committee should be recognized by 
the students.
Notice
In connection with the proposed 
plans to raze the Hut and move the 
Canteen to the Beanery, suggestions 
for the new Canteen are wanted. 
Boxes will be placed in the Hut and 
Administration, in which suggestions 
can be placed.
Phi Kappa Phi Raises 
$1,000 Toward New 
Scholarship Program
Director Charles Watkins, Presi­
dent of the Carnegie Chapter of Phi 
Kappa Phi, has announced that the 
Society has raised its first $1,000 in 
the campaign to establish the Ihrig- 
Lawler Memorial Scholarship Fund. 
Contributions ranging from $2 to 
$100 are being received daily from 
members of the faculty and staff at 
Carnegie as well as from members 
of the Society.
Lieutenant Colonel Laurance F. 
Shaffer, who is on leave from his 
position as Professor of Psychology 
and Education and Head of the 
Bureau of Measurement and Guid­
ance to serve with the Army Air 
Force, wrote as follows:
“I am inclosing a check as a 
contribution toward the endow­
ment of scholarship awards in 
memory of Dr. Ihrig and Pro­
fessor Lawler. Phi Kappa Phi 
could not have found a more ap­
propriate way to pay a tribute 
to these two fine scholars than 
by the establishment of these 
scholarship awards.”
Phi Kappa Phi plans to raise $10,-
000 for the memorial fund by June 
30, 1946. Oliecks in contribution to 
the fund should be made payable to 
Phi Kappa Phi and sent to Miss 
Jeanne Hartman, Secretary of the
C.I.T. Holds Memorial Service 
In Honor of F. D. Roosevelt
In accordance with services held 
elsewhere throughout the nation, 
Carnegie Tech held a memorial 
service Friday noon, in tribute to 
Franklin Delano Roosevelt, whose 
untimely death shocked the whole 
country late Thursday afternoon.
Friday noon, students and facul­
ty both, gathered on the lawn in 
front of Fine Arts for the service. 
The turnout was large, The Car­
negie chorus opened the service 
with the singing of Abide With Me.
Society, Room 254C, Industries Hall,
Carnegie Institute of Technology. Isabel Monster Makes
War Stamp, Bond Drive Final Appearance Here
¿-I Wr. \ Vol i TX On Sunday evening, April 15, Isa-doses W ltn Hitler riex bei Munster, who will graduate
The last big week of the Stamp from the Music Department this
Drive swung into gear yesterday month, made her final appearance
with the usual stamp sales at the Tech as an undergraduate in a 
booths, but the remainder of the professionally performed recital 
week will be far from ordinary. given in Exhibition Hall. Her pro- 
The first big event of the week gram included: 
will be the hexing of Hitler which I
will take place on Friday, April 20. Neue Liebe, neues Leben.............
Since April 20 is Hitler’s birthday, ............ Beethoven
the committee decided to give the Nachtstuck ............ Schubert
stamp buyers the opportunity to Orpheus with his lute made trees
make him uncomfortable a la voo- ............ Castelnuovo-Tedesco
doo by sticking pins in his pickle- II
puss at all the booths in a special Solitudine ............................. Liuzzi
drive-closing sale at the booths. Di Notte.................................Liuzzi
Every student or faculty member Reverie ...................... Rhene-Baton
who buys fifty cents worth of Le Printemps......................Fevrier
stamps can write his name on a pin HI
and stick it into Hitler’s face which Ich bin der Welt abhanden ge-
will lear over every booth in school. kommen ............. Mahler
Second on the list of big events is Ständchen.............Richard Strauss
the crowning of the bond queen and Abendstimmung ............. Delius
her court of four which will take Noch ist die blühende goldene
place at 3:45 p. m. on Saturday in Zeit.............Jensen
the Sylvan theatre if the weather IV
is nice or in Thistle Hall if it rains. Over the Mountains. .Roger Quilter
Iris Kwall has announced that the A Swan .................... Edvard Grieg
Bond Queen contest will close Wed- Yet, ah, that spring should vanish 
nesday. So far Adeline Herlick and with the rose!... .Arthur Whiting 
Jean Garland are in the lead. An suddenly the wind comessoft........................Matthew Frey
The Little Spring Carnival sched­
uled for Saturday afternoon will 
not be held due to President Roose­
velt’s death. The crowning of the Bond Queen and Call Day for some 
organizations will be held as sched­
uled.
Notice
All persons who want their pic­
tures back that have been used in 
the Tartan, may call for them at the 
Tartan office, Room 232 Industries, 
any time between 3 and 5, Thurs-« 
day afternoon, April 19.
Rev. Hugh Thompson Kerr, of the 
Shadyside Presbyterian Church 
conducted the service, which in­
cluded the reading of the thirteenth 
chapter of First Corinthians, the 
president’s favorite passage. The 
simple, impressive ceremony was 
concluded with the singing of 
America.
The color guard, consisting of 
navy men stationed at Carnegie 
Tech, stood at attention through the 
service.
Senior Dance Merges 
With Sing and Swing
With the untimely death of the 
thirty-first president of the United 
States, Franklin Delano Roosevelt, 
the nation has gone into mourning. 
In keeping with the prevalent spirit 
throughout the nation, Carnegie 
Tech cancelled both big dances 
originally scheduled for last week­
end, the Senior Coronation Ball on 
Friday night, and the Greek Sing 
and Swing on Saturday night.
Instead^ both of these dances will 
be postponed to the evening of Sat­
urday, April 21. The singing half of 
Sing and Swing will begin at 7:00 in 
Thistle Hall. The Coronation Ball 
will follow immediately, around 
8:30, in the main Gymnasium.
Bernie Armstrong’s orchestra will 
play for the dance as was originally 
scheduled. All plans, other than the 
changing of the date, will remain 
the same for the Coronation Ball. 
The singing will remain the only 
part of Sing and Swing and will be 
open to all.
Notices
The Carnegie Tech Student 
Branch of the AIEE will hold their 
annual Spring Picnic at North Park 
on Sunday, April 22. All members 
are invited.
Any boy who would be interested 
in driving to the west coast after 
the end of this semester should con­
tact Aubrey Caplan. Mr. Caplan 
will supply the car and the gas, and 
the only expense involved will be 
maintenance; the only responsi­
bility, that of sharing the driving.

---------------------------------------------------

THE CARNEGIE TARTAN
ßdUtonÜ A'uncJiai'i
TUESDAY, APRIL 17, 1945
"J ! -3---------------------
The End?
Very nearly everything that can be said concerning the death of Pres­
ident Roosevelt has already been said by people who are far more capable 
of appreciating his greatness and far more capable of expressing their trib­
utes to him than we could hope to be. It seems over ambitious of us to try 
to express our feelings in the matter; yet an occurance of such importance 
to everyone on campus should not and cannot be ignored in this column.
Very few of the students on campus are unaware that the president’s 
death is the most important thing that has happened to them since Hitler 
declared war on the world. They have not been afraid to express as far as 
they have been able the great personal grief they feel at his passing. Many of 
them were surprised that the death of any public official could affect them 
so greatly. One girl said, “Why I feel as if a member of my own family had 
died.” One of the boys said that the bottom just seemed to drop out of 
everything when he heard the news. No one seemed able to believe that a 
man they had known so well through the press and the radio could actually 
be gone. His wonderful personality actually was so much a part of every­
one’s lives that they felt that they had lost a personal friend.
The death of President Roosevelt is of more than emotional import­
ance to every person on campus. The pain that one feels when he realizes 
that he can never hear the president’s voice again, never see his face again, 
nor read of his colorful personality in the newspapers is personally im­
portant; but the thing that is even more important to everyone of us is the 
fact that a great driving force directed toward a true democracy for every 
man in the world has been obliterated by his death. Throughout all the 
years of his public office, Roosevelt has been a symbol of humanity and of 
justice for the people of the world as well as the people of the United 
States. His name has been synonomous with a belief in the right of the 
common man everywhere to decent standards of living and the right to be 
happy. He believed in these principles, and he believed in them enought to 
give his life working for their realization. During the peacetime days of his 
administration the president strove mightily, often against bitter opposi­
tion, to see that the ordinary working man of the United States might ob­
tain security and the right to work. From the very earliest years of the 
war he labored to secure a just and permanent peace after the conflict. 
He felt that it was his duty as President of the United States and as a hu­
man being to devote himself to bettering the lot mankind. In that belief 
he literally worked himself to death for us.
Now we, the students of Carnegie, have a duty which we owe 
to him. Many of us have expressed feelings of deep despair at the passing 
of the President. On Friday one of the Maggie Murphs said, “Everything 
he did has been done for nothing. All the peace plans cannot come out 
right, now.” One of the engineers said, “You wait and see, the forces of re­
action will set in now and wipe out all the good work Roosevelt has ever 
done. We cannot let the great work the President has done be destroyed! If 
the people who say that reaction is setting in are right, we must see that,* 
when we are old enough to occupy positions of importance, we put a stop 
to the reactionary pendulum and reinstate the reforms that Roosevelt orig­
inated. We must try now, by writing to our Congressmen, to prevent the 
reactionary swing from getting started. We must give President Truman a 
fair chance to prove his work, and then, if he fails to carry out the ideas 
and ideals of Mr. Roosevelt, we must act against him. We must support 
with our whole heart any forward steps that are made toward lasting 
peace. Now that Roosevelt can no longer give his time and his strength 
to us, it is our duty to dedicate ourselves to the principles for which he 
gave his life.
Our Humble Opinion
Congratulations, Ernie
The Tartan staff wishes to congratulate one of its members on leave, 
Ernie Lowenstein, on his acceptance into the fifth term of Electrical En­
gineering training under the Army Specialized Training Program at Vir­
ginia Polytechnic Institute.
Opinions expressed in the pages of the TARTAN are those of the members of the 
ftaff; in the case of the editorial column they are those of the Editor. They are not 
to be construed as necessarily the opinions of either the student body or the faculty.
The Carnegie Tartan
Carnegie Institute of Technology, Schenley Park* Pittsburgh 13, P*.
PHONE NATTLOWEB *«00 PHONE 8CHENLEY 4M1
TTheCahr nrg CiahrCit »DVHTnmo »? After Office Hours Call
National Advertising Service, Inc. Editor-in-chief ...............sc. 6519
College Publishers Representative420 Madison avi, niw York. n. y. Business Manager............EM. 9424CUICASO • BOSTOH • LOS AMlUt • SAS F»A*CISCO
Entered M McaU-elHi matter In the Pittsburgh Post Office under the Act of March 3, 1870. 
Fibllsbel weekly daring school year, except holidays ana examination periods. 
Subscription Price ¿1.10 per year.
Editor-in-chief ................................... ................................................................. Clara Herron
Business Manager ....................................................................................... Harold Gottesman
Managing Editor .................................................................................................. Augie Binder
News Editor ............................................................................................... Mary Jane Horridge
Copy Editor .......................i............................................................................................ Boo Girts
Reporters: Audrey Wilkins, Audrey Hobe, Tom Bokman, Marie Falkenhagen, 
Betty Jane Kreimer, Camilla McCullough, Ann Daniels.
For anyone who has a scientific 
interest in the theater, The Famous 
Mrs. Fair will prove a striking il­
lustration of the unequal struggle 
between good actors and a bad play. 
Possibly it might also be interesting 
for all the WAC veterans we may 
have on campus. Offhand, this de­
partment can’t think of anyone else 
who would derive any pleasure 
from it, unless you count the rela­
tives and friends of the actors.
That sums up our humble opinion 
of the current show; if you would 
like to hear a few more specific 
things (though why you should we 
can’t imagine), stay with us for an­
other paragraph or two. The play, 
such as it is, deals with the prob­
lems facing a war hero—in this case, 
heroine — on his return to civilian 
life. Major Nancy Fair has won 
great fame in the Medical Corps, 
and upon her discharge from the 
army is feted everywhere and asked 
to make a lecture tour. Unable to 
think in terms of ordinary family 
life after her long years as a free 
agent, she is carried away by her 
success, and neglects to do the re­
quired amount of worrying about 
her husband and children. The 
usual complications set in en masse. 
The husband has an affair with an­
other woman, the son marries a girl 
his mother doesn’t approve of, the 
daughter goes wrong, and there is 
an attempted embezzlement. Every­
thing except the kitchen sink, in 
fact. And don’t accuse us of spoling 
the show for you by telling you the 
story, because the thing is so obvi­
ous that after the first five minutes 
anyone can guess what is going to 
happen. We have never written a 
play, and perhaps it is not for us to 
tell Mr. Forbes (the author of this 
little thing) how to go about it, but 
we feel sure that if he had stuck to 
his main theme with maybe only 
one plot complication that was care­
fully worked out, he would have 
achieved a more successful result 
than he has by throwing in all the 
trite situations he could think of, 
giving each only a sketchy treat­
ment.
To turn to a more pleasant phase
of the subject, the acting in this 
show was in all cases competent, 
and in some denitely superior. Mary 
Laura Wood played the Major with 
that deftness that we have come to 
expect of her. She is really a swell 
little actress, and we would like to 
take this oportunity to wish her all 
the luck in the world for a success­
ful career in the professional thea­
ter. Clark Marlor played her hus­
band with a quiet dignity that is 
rather new to him; this part is un­
like any other we have seen him 
play (trusting now to our rather un­
trustworthy memory), and we think 
he caught the spirit of his character 
perfectly. Similarly, Jack Hoch- 
hauser, in the first juvenile he has 
played here, is convincing and alto­
gether satisfactory. Doris Fast was 
a delightful ingenue, properly inno­
cent in the first act and properly 
confused in the second, and Kath­
arine Cook was charming as the sen­
sible, bashful daughter-in-law. The 
only actress we considered, well, not 
exactly distinguished was Eleanor 
Hutchison, in the role of the other 
woman. She couldn’t seem quite to 
make up her mind whether she was 
going to be a slinky siren, or a 
brazen hussy, or just a poor widow 
who is trying to be sympathetic- 
Her confusion also confused the 
audience — we were about to say, 
“and spoiled the effect of the play”, 
but, as we pointed out before, there 
isn’t much to spoil.
Our only other quarrel with the 
show is that the set, what with the 
walls and the furniture, is rather 
too colorful. The actresses in their 
print dresses didn’t show up very 
well against the upholstery. We 
must admit, however, that the com­
bination of scenery and lighting 
suggested summertime very effec­
tively, and that was a decided ad­
vantage.
The play is scheduled to run until 
the end of this week, so if you want 
to find out how good some of the 
other plays of the past season were, 
(which you may not have realized 
at the time) run right down and see 
The Famous Mrs. Fair. The con­
trast will overwhelm you.
^IcdeA. Ut Kkaki
An Air Medal for meritorious 
achievement during aerial combat 
against the enemy has recently been 
awarded Second Lieutenant Wil­
liam L. Hulslander, a 1942 gradu­
ate of Tech. Lt. Hulslander is with 
the 15th AAF in Italy, and is a vet­
eran of missions to Germany, Aus­
tria, Hungary, Yugoslavia, and 
northern Italy. While here at Tech, 
he was a member of the swimming 
team.
Capt. Nathan N. Tyson, in service 
with the Tenth Air Force in the 
India-Burma Theater, has been 
awarded the first Oak Leaf cluster 
to the Air Medal. He is credited 
with 226 hours of combat flying and 
has been in the service 3 ¥2 years.
Also with the Tenth Air Force in 
Burma, is Charles E. Fouhy who 
was recently commissioned a Sec­
ond Lieutenant from the field. He 
is the second enlisted man from 
the 7th Bombardment group to be 
commissioned directly from the 
ranks since the group has been in 
India. He will now serve with the 
Corps of Engineers. ______
Corporal Joseph L. McCall is sta­
tioned as a statistical control clerk 
at Gazes Air Base, Casablanca, in 
the North African Division of the 
Air Transport Command.
At the world’s largest ordnance 
research and development center, 
Aberdeen Proving Grounds, Md., 
are Capt. Ezekial Losco and Lt. 
George Andraso, both graduates of 
Carnegie Tech. Lt. Andraso has 
done extensive research work on 
“Flak Suits” for the Army Air 
Corps. Capt. Lasco is engaged in 
research and development work on 
various types of material and amr 
munition in the field.
Second Lieutenant James B. Pet­
tit, a B-17 Flying Fortress navigar 
tor, has been awarded the Oak Leaf 
Cluster to the Air'Medal for “merit­
orious achievement” during the 
Eighth Air Force bombing attacks 
on German military and industrial 
installations. He is a member of the 
division cited for its England to 
Africa shuttle bombing of Messer- 
schmitt aircraft plants. ,

---------------------------------------------------

TÜESDAŸ, APRIL 1?, 194ÔTHE CAËNEGIE TARTAN
One of the Girls
She’s blonde, she’s sweet, she’s 
petite” — the feminine adjectives 
sfering to none other than Cotty 
owry.
Cotty (or Catherine, if we must
. . . Cotty Lowry
be formal) is a departing senior 
from the General Studies Depart­
ment. She has been looking forward 
to graduation for years, but now ad­
mits that she’s really quite sad 
about the whole thing. Along with 
the diploma she’ll be tugging back 
to Ellicottville, N. Y., is a mighty 
bundle of activity keys; for she has 
been Women’s Editor of the Scottie, 
President and Sec.-Treas. of Dorm 
Council, Treas. of Women’s Guild, 
Corresponding Sec. of Delta Gam­
ma, and a member of PiDE. Her No.
1 extra-curricular activity this year, 
however, has been the War Bond 
Committee. (Iris Kwall,' please 
note.)
What’s wrong now? You want to 
know about Ellicottville. Why, real­
ly, it has been rumored that it is a 
northern hill-billy village just 
about 10 miles from Salamonca, 20 
miles from Bradford, 50 miles from 
Buffalo.
But getting back to the woman 
in question. Cottie likes to take an
active part in sports — swimming, 
riding, and skiing being among her 
favorites. She is also an enthusiastic 
bridge and poker player and has 
been known to spend the early 
morning hours in this capacity. (No 
wonder she hates people who are 
cheerful in the morning.)
When asked her favorite hobby, 
Miss Lowry began to glow all over 
and—sorry but her reply is censor­
ed. Then, rewording her answer, 
she said that the Y. D. B. I. C. club 
was her favorite hobby. For further 
information I refer you to Cotty.
About this time a little bird whis­
pered in my ear that Cotty played 
the piano, but this talent must be 
placed under the heading of idiosyn­
crasy. She delights in haunting the 
D. G’s with her favorite, “Johnny
Went Walking.” She sings too!
One thing she doesn’t do as yet 
is fly. Now don’t misinterpret. Cot- 
ty’s ambition is to learn to fly. She 
is planning on working with the air­
lines after graduation and hopes to 
fulfill her ambition of pilothood in 
her spare time.
We wish you luck Cotty!
Picnic in the Park
The International Relations Club 
will hold one last get-together on 
Friday, April 27, after the last exam 
has been taken. The girls will meet 
in front of Margaret Morrison at 
3:00 and will go to Frick Park for 
Cokes and Dogs. Elections, which 
were posponed at the last meeting, 
will be held.
ERTL
BAKING CO.
PITTSBURGH, PA.
A Simplified 
Checking Account
-PROVIDES—
The safety and all the convenience of any 
bank account. 
With inexpensive Pay-as-You-Go privilege. 
No Minimum Balance Requirement. 
No limit on deposits or withdrawals. 
No charge to your account.
THE FORBES NATIONAL BANK
of Pittsburgh
FIFTH AND OAKLAND 
GULF BUILDING, SEVENTH AND GRANT
MEMBER FEDERAL DEPOSIT INSURANCE CORPORATION 
_____________________________________________________________
Succceding generations of 
many of Pittsburgh’s pioneer 
families open an account at 
the Mellon National Bank as 
a matter of family tradition 
as soon as they come of age.
MELLON 
NATIONAL BANK*V 'MEMBER FEDERAL DEPOSIT INSURANCE CORPORATION
RODGERS
DAIRY STORES
MILK SHAKES
Made from Pure Whole Milk for 
only 15c
We Do Not Use Skim Milk.•
NEAREST STORES LOCATED
------AT------
3900 FORBES STREET 
Near Bouquet Street 
4619 CENTER AVENUE 
Near Craig Street
CLA1RTON
PROGRESS
COMPANY

---------------------------------------------------

4THE CARNEGIE TARTANTUESDAY, APRIL 17, 1648
CIT FavoriteDeshon Appreciates 
Wrestling Exhibition
Dear Mr. Risedorph:
On behalf of Colonel C. J. Gentz-
The above picture is Miss CIT. It 
is a composite picture of Frankie 
Creeland’s hair, Martha Wagman’s 
eyes, Peggy Cole’s nose, and Peggy 
Dunlap’s lips. You asked for it, now 
you’ve got it.
kow, our Commanding Officer, and 
all of the patients and duty person­
nel present for the exhibition 
wrestling matches, Friday, April 6,
1945, I want to thank you most 
warmly for the wonderful night of 
entertainment and relaxation your 
organization afforded all of us.
I was impressed by the sports­
manship and general attitude of all 
your wrestlers and request that you 
thank each and every one of them 
for us—the last match between Si
Brown and Coach Don Alexander 
is still discussed with much interest; 
their act climaxed a grand night.
Lt. Hall (O’Regan) is enclosing 
the photos promised you and in turn 
we will appreciate receiving several 
copies of your publication.
Sincerely, ' ¿jj
Robert L. O’Regan,
1st Lt. Ord. Dept.,
Physical Training Officer.
WALKER & DOWNING
ADVERTISING AGENCY
NEWSPAPER - RADIO - PERIODICAL
Oliver Building, Pittsburgh, Pa.
SUN
DRUG
CO.
Today AND TOMORROW and every business day 
something like four million Toll and Long Distance 
calls will be going over Bell System lines.
So we’d like to remind you that there’s still a war­
time rush on certain circuits and ask your coopera­
tion when the operator says—“Please limit your 
call to 5 minutes."

---------------------------------------------------

TÜESDAY, APRIL 17, 1945 - - THE CARNEGIE TARTAN___________~ _______________________________ 5 ........ ’ ........ _ _ . . _ —. 1    ¦- ----------------------------------
C. C. CAMPBELL
Prescription Pharmacist
132 N. Highland Ave., East End 
Pittsburgh, Pa.
Best ivishes from
.. / > - '
CLAWSON’S
BARBECUE
.
Blaw-Knox, Pa.
¦
ANDERSON
EQUIPMENT CO.
Bridgeville, Pa.
PITTSBURGH 
INDUSTRIAL 
ENGINEERING CO.
3939 Butler St., Pittsburgh, Pa.
BUY WAR BONDS
per 
Mouth
FORT PITT
TYPEWRITER CO.
ATlantic 8320 
644 LIBERTY AVENUE
La moda Americana... Have a Coke
-aiTHE AMERICAN WAY)
...art American custom as seen in Italy
People overseas are impressed by the American fighting man’s 
friendliness among his fellows. They see his home-ways and 
customs—his good humor. Have a Coke they hear him say to his 
buddies, and they begin to understand America. Yes, the pause 
that refreshes with ice-cold Coca-Cola speaks of the friendliness 
of Main Street and the family fireside.
BOTTLED UNDER AUTHORITY OF THE COCA-COU COMPANY tV
COCA-COLA BOTTLING COMPANY, PITTSBURGH, PA.
Yom fiaturatly hear Coca-Cola 
ita friendly abbreviate«
Company.
Fort Pitt is the Place 
to Rent
TYPEWRITERS
ALL
MAKES
r

---------------------------------------------------

THL CARNEGIE TARTANTUESDAY, APRIL 17, 1945The Plaid
Perixmalitu . . .
The busy little bee you’ve seen 
buzzing around at the Plaid social 
acting as hat check girl, juke box 
girl, ticket collector, or what have 
you, is none other than Dorothy 
Papa or “Dottie” as she is known to 
her friends. Her talents include act­
ing in skits and plays, swimming, 
playing badminton, and dancing.
She prefers movies on the light side 
and spends a great deal of time en­
joying musical comedies. Jitterbug- 
ging is definitely one of her dis­
likes, and another one of her pet 
peeves is people who waste time, for 
according to Dottie, life is too short 
to spend it in idleness.
During the day you will find her 
patiently (?) selling books and sup­
plies at the book store to CIT stu­
dents. Her best seller in the line of 
books is Route Surveys by Rubey!
Dottie studied Harmony and 
Music Appreciation, acquiring a 
taste for symphonies and Bing 
Crosby’s rendition of popular songs. 
To the annoyance of her friends, she 
delights in gathering a group to­
gether to sing with her. Her passion 
for music has resulted in her de­
termination to become a profession­
al pianist.
Although she prefers not to com­
mit herself, we discovered that her 
ideal man is tall and blond. He must 
be a brilliant conversationalist, a 
lover of music, and an intelligent in­
terpreter of world events. Walking 
and talking about economic prob­
lems must be in his line of accom­
plishments.
Because Dottie is a patriotic miss, 
she has enrolled as a Nurse’s Aide 
and has twice given blood for the 
Armed Forces. Her appealing per­
sonality has won her many friends 
and she is determined to keep their 
friendship even though she likes to 
test their patience with political ar­
guments.
At one time Dottie was the writer 
of the Eight Ball, and she intends to 
resume her work with the Plaid 
Staff in the Fall, for she finds Jour­
nalism almost as intriguing as her 
interest in music. We shall enjoy 
reading her lively articles and notes 
when she returns to her old job on 
the staff next semester.
wish to thank the janitor,for letting 
us out after “lights out” when all 
the doors were locked.
All in all, being Editor was a lot 
of fun as well as labor. I hope that 
next year’s PLAID staff has a suc­
cessful and eventful term in office.
Editorial
Who’s the attractive brunette 
we’ve seen flying around the Plaid 
office lately? Couldn’t be the hap- 
pily-married Leah Van Horn, could 
it? . . . We hear Elmer Barthel (a 
new victim of the 8-ball claw) is up 
to his old tricks again! Nice kid . . . 
Observed the Eng. Drawing class is 
just full of eligible and good-look­
ing males. Well, girls! What are we 
waiting for? A few of them are Cal 
Elder, “Rick” and many other Casa­
novas. Does anybody know how to 
go about registering in that class? 
Don’t get me wrong now. I’m mere­
ly interested in learning how to use 
a “T” square . . . Betty Ashcroft 
claims she’s going home this week­
end. Missed her last week at the 
Plaid meeting ... I wonder what 
the Ed promised the gals if they 
come back to the Plaid this Fall! It 
appears Ginny, Arlene, Dottie, 
Leah, Olive, Ruthie and Betty are 
wishing the Fall term were already 
here. I’ll have to look into this . . . 
Congrats Bill! In getting around, 
I’ve snooped into Bill Roscoe’s pri­
vate affairs and found out a bundle 
of sunshine has recently popped 
into this happy home . . . Why 
didn’t somebody tell me Harold 
Park’s wife reads the Eight-Ball? I 
wouldn’t have mentioned how he 
loves to repair things around the 
house. Wish somebody would give 
him some work to do around the 
Plaid Friday nights. Talk about 
slave-drivers! All he does is click 
his fingers and keep a sharp eye on 
everybody’s work. There ought to 
be a law! Yes! There ought to be a 
law against sticking chewing gum 
in the Ed’s favorite chair. Don’t you 
know that stuff’s hard to get? . . . 
Say! I was under the impression 
the Engineers’ Banquet was strictly 
a stag affair. How’d the women get 
in? Better left unanswered!
Does Ruth McGraw wear a veil 
on her dashing Easter hat for pro­
tection against getting dust in her 
eyes? Or what? . . .
Now I’ll wind up for today 
There isn’t much that I can say, 
Except, “Cheerio” until the Fall 
When I’ll greet you from behind the
Eight-Ball! 4
Our Parting Thoughts
With the passing of this issue of 
the PLAID, my term as Editor is 
fulfilled. I wish to thank the staff 
for their loyalty and devotion in 
making this page possible for the 
past two terms.
The small enrollment had forced 
the activities on the Evening School 
campus to a minimum. The result 
was that at times it was very diffi­
cult finding enough news to fill this 
page. Many times we had difficulty 
making the twelve o’clock deadline 
Friday nights, and since the lights 
are turned off at midnight, we had 
to finish the copy under the dim 
light left on in the' hallway. We
As we recover from the stagger­
ing blow which has struck us, we 
can well realize more and more the 
stupendous tasks which our beloved 
President had undertaken.
To him was given the command, 
nqt once but twice, of leading his 
people through perilous times. First 
it was the period of panic and des­
pair as he embarked upon the early 
years of office as President of these 
United States; then again when our 
country was plunged into the throes 
of World War II.
He met both of these tasks in a 
manner bespeaking the Comman- 
der-in-Chief that he was. He led us 
through the first trial in splendid 
manner and was slowly bringing to 
fruition the successful termination 
of the second great trial when he 
was called to his eternal home.
History will rank him as truly 
great and well it may as there are 
none more entitled to this acclaim.
Humanly great in everything he 
did; the big and lowly met on equal 
terms and he saw in each something 
and that something was a human 
being.
And, in his line of duty there were 
no barriers which hindered him. 
Traditions were made and broken 
with one thought, how best to ac­
complish a result, or alleviate pain 
or suffering.
Now that he has departed, let us 
honor him by fulfilling his cherish­
ed hope and desire by lending all 
our endeavor towards bringing to 
this troubled world a lasting peace, 
when all people may live together 
in PEACE. So, in deep respect we 
pay tribute to our departed Com- 
mander-in-Chief Franklin Delano 
Roosevelt.
9*i Memoriam
Three and one half years ago the 
war bugle sounded and many men 
in Carnegie Tech answered the call 
to arms. All that we have or will 
have we owe to those who have so 
faithfully served their country. 
Humbly, we offer our tribute. To 
those who will not return, we can 
only dedicate ourselves to keep 
alive the ideals for which they 
fought and died. Let us honor and 
remember the following men of 
Tech Evening School who have 
given their last full measure of de­
votion to their country:
2nd Lt. Frederic C. Rhul — Elec. 
Equip. E’44-x. Killed in plane 
crash—Arizona—3/4/43.
Pvt. Raymond Nestleroad — Archi­
tecture—’39-’40. Killed in action— 
Africa. .7/3/43.
Lt. Theodore Haffly—Aeronautical 
—’39-’41. Killed in plane crash— 
Albuquerque, N. M.—7/28/43.
P/O George E. Brose — Structural 
Drafting—1’24. Died of wounds— 
Pacific—1/17/44.
Sgt. Robert M. Taylor — Electrical 
—’42-’43. Killed in action—Europe 
—2/10/44.
Ensign John Earl Withrow — Me­
chanical—’40-’41. Killed in plane 
crash—Morris Field—6/8/44.
The Plaid
Editor
Joseph M. Rymar 1
News Editor 
Mary de Maria •
Associate Editora
Ruth McGraw 
Arlene McMurray
Pase edited by Evening School Stndents of Cat-
negie Institute of Technology. All views •«
opinions expressed in editorial column are not 
necessarily endorsed by the Editorial Board of 
the Day School Staff.
Staff
Betty Ashcraft 
Olive Baumgardner 
Virginia Ehni 
S. W. Marcinizyn
Fred Vichich
E. E. McDonald 
Frank Mihelich 
Dorothy Papa 
Leah Van Horn
Lt. Fred D. Freedel — Printing — 
E’35. Killed in action — France — 
7/4/44.
Pvt. Wm. D. Babbit — H&V — Eco­
nomics—29-33, 39-39, 41-42. Kill­
ed in action—France—7/11/44.
Sgt. Bernard J. McDonald — Typo 
Mach. Comp.—38-40. Killed over 
Truk.
Pvt. G. Wayne Jones—Mech. ’37-’41. 
Killed in plane crash — Yuma, 
Ariz.—12/25/44.
Pfc. Robert Guttendorf — Mech. — 
’40-42. Killed in action — France 
—11/15/44.
Pvt. John R. Clark—Mech.—’39-42. 
Killed in Luxembuorg—1/21/45.
Lt. W. J. Spangler — Civil — ’33-35, 
’37-’42. Killed in plane crash — 
Georgia—2/23/45.
Lt. John Paul Brady—Mech. Draft­
ing—’38-’41. Killed in plane crash 
—Brazil—4/27/43.
C. S. EDMAN
PRINTER
6470 Monitor St. HA. 0193
You And Your 
Out-of-Town Friends
will find comfortable 
accommodations 
—at—
HOTEL 
WEBSTER HALL
Be sure to make your reservations 
well in advance, particularly for
WEEK-END VISITS
Tech Service Men and Women Are 
Especially Welcome
4415 FIFTH AVENUE 
MAyflower 7700
Let's go to
ISALY'S
MILK SHAKES 
BIG ICE CREAM CONES
KLONDIKES 
TASTY LUNCHES
Three Store« in the College 
District
5808 Forbes Street, Squirrel Hill 
3714 Forbes Street, Oakland
MAIN PLANT:
3880 Boulevard of the Allies
