A'Basket Ball 
Friday Night 
Grove City vs. Tech.darla
Band Practice
IIEvery Thursday414:30—6:00
VOL. XIV. No. 16.CARNEGIE INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY. PITTSBURGH. PENNSYLVANIA.JANUARY 28, 1920.
“Betty Jumel” Packs Little Theatre 
Proves Biggest Hit of Season
Adtors Commended for
Especially Good Work.
Hazel Beck Stars.
Well the long-heralded and much- 
advertised “Betty Jumel” has at last 
made her curtsy to the public. A 
throng of eager guests, friends, rela­
tives, patrons and critics gathered in 
the Little Theatre last Thursday to 
witness the premiere of “Betty 
Jumel” (with an accent on the last 
syllable) and a more enthusiastic and 
sympathetic audience would have 
been pandemonium.
The author was Owen White of the 
School of Drama. He deserves un­
limited credit for his careful prepara­
tion of the piece. The play shows 
consciencious diligence in its tech­
nique, and as a whole the construc­
tion is logical and accurate.
The plot is more or less historical. 
The character of Arron Burr is par­
ticularly interesting, and while the 
dates and chronology of events do not 
coincide with the costumes and set­
tings of the play, that doesn’t matter 
dramatically.
Madame Betty Jumel, young widow 
of a wealthy French merchant, is the 
center of a gay little court of New 
York society in the early nineteenth 
century. Among her admirers is the 
much respected and feared Aaron 
Burr, who is determined to marry her. 
But Betty is enamored of young Rich­
ard Trumbull and very frankly favors 
him. He, in turn, is in love with his 
“Girl of the Poppies”, who loves him. 
But fate is not kind to the simple and 
lowly of station, and she must marry 
the' rich rake, Jack Oglesby, who 
holds the mortgage on her home. For 
the sake of her poor old father she 
must give up hope of happiness. Betty 
visits their home, partly out of curios­
ity,, to see Dick's sweetheart and part­
ly to help Jack Oglesby in his suit 
for Prue Morrison, the “Lady of the 
Poppies”. Burr follows to find Betty 
there with Dick. Jealousy promotes 
a quarrel between the men. There is 
a challenge, and a duel is to be fought. 
Burr is. a deadly shot and Dick will 
surely be killed. Betty, to save Dick, 
promises, to:, -marry Burr, but Dick 
knows nothing of the sacrifice she 
makes.
A few months later Prue comes to 
vi^it Betty during the holiday revels. 
Betty is still in love with Dick, and 
he with Prue, who thinks he is in love 
with Betty, Jack Oglesby being care­
ful that Prue should be so impressed. 
Unfortunately for the smoothing of 
complications, but fortunately for a 
bit of realism in the plot; Dick, in a 
state of utter dejection, yet full of 
gratitude to Betty for what she lias 
d'orie ¿or him socially and financially, 
not to mention the temptation of the 
moment, kisses Betty. (Under the 
i;nistletoe,. to be sure, but hardly a 
ChcjstiUfts greeting.) Prue, pictures­
quely.; ‘eavesdropping from the stairs, 
observes it all. Thereupon she allows 
her’Sengagement to Jack Oglesby to 
be^. announced. Burr enters with a 
Iji,arson in his wake and demands that 
Madame; I keep her promise to marry 
bim. l>ick, whose heart is breaking, 
and is therefore reckless, steps in and 
offers Madame his hand, which she, of 
course,: accepts. Prue faints, Dick 
forgets Betty and runs to Prue. Bet­
ty's friends, laugh. She/in anger, ex­
plains,-that she has been playing a 
part io bring Prue to her senses, and 
orders Burr from her house.
The last act is, of course, a patch­
ing up of all the difficulties. Madame 
Betty heroically gives up Dick and 
reconciles him and his sweetheart. 
She puts Jack Oglesby in his proper 
place, and says a final good-bye to 
Burr ending the whole with a pathetic 
little scene of disappointed love alone 
in the moonlight with ashes of roses 
and tears.
That is the plot and an intricate 
yet engaging one it is. It holds the 
audience remarkably—remarkably be­
cause the audience swallows it in spite 
of the lines. Or was the adience very 
kind that it allowed such unmitigated 
slush to be spouted and never raised 
a whimper of protest? Were they all 
Daisy Ashfords that they listened 
with nine-year-old ears and revelled 
in the sticky half-achieved joy of su­
perlative sentimentality? To be sure 
the author is not completely to blame. 
His work is a dramatization from a 
novel called, “Hearts Triumphant”— 
The author of it doesn’t matter.
Did people ever talk like that? 
Such labored gallantry, stupid persi­
flage and unwarranted soliliquies! 
Surely Sheridan never fed the people 
of his time on such a diet of mush! 
“Monsieur Beaucaire” and “Pomander 
Walk” deal with “love” and “man­
ners” but do not sicken us with the 
vacuity of unreal mincing manne­
quins.
The actors deserve more than ordi­
nary credit for working against such 
odds. There were seventeen in all. 
The title role was played by Miss 
Hazel Beck and a more bewitching 
Betty is hard to imagine. As coquette, 
haughty lady, selfish tyrant and self- 
pitying woman, in turn, she played 
the part with delightful ease and fin­
ish. Her voice and manner held a 
veriety of lights and shades that made 
her presence on the stage throughout 
her long oft-repeated part a continu­
ous joy. And her sincerity was the 
salvation of the play. She miracu­
lously kept the piece serious and pre­
served it from the absurdity of farce.
Mr. Kenneth Thomson as Dick Trum­
bull was a disappointment. Without 
question he had the worst lines in the 
play and it takes a clever actor to 
pound upon the door and cry, “Laugh, 
laugh, damn you, while my heart is 
breaking”, or “My, love, gone—gone 
forever out of my life,” etc., without 
making a fool of himself. Mr. Thom­
son didn't make a fool of himself but 
he could have made , more of the op­
portunity to surmount the seemingly 
unsurmountable. There was 
apathy in his manner which even the 
chronic lovesickness of his lines would 
not justify. Mr. Dickinson as Aaron 
Burr was an impressive figure and 
played with dignity and repressed 
power—not at all the historical Mr 
Burr nor the one perhaps intended by 
the author, but a Burr of such charm 
it was difficult to understand Lady 
Betty’s indifference to him.
George Varick, the clever foppish, 
man-about-town was well character 
ized by Lawrence Paquin. This char­
acter while not strictly necessary to 
the plot held up the interest and life 
of the play throughout. Mr. Paquin 
not only wore the costume with con­
siderable dash but did some nice bits 
of acting with a good deal of sin- 
(Continued on page 4.)
SBnnnnüiiniiiinmiiHiiiaiiinnaiiimreBiinmsiiniinMnffiinnüB
BE PREPARED FOR
FROLIC DES VANITIES
Date Announced Next Week
ALLEGHENY TRIUMPHS 
OVER TECH FIVE, 23-21
Tartans Have Off Night. 
Beaten by Close Score.
Allegheny triumphed over Tech in 
a poor exhibition of basket ball Sat­
urday, 23-21. The Tech five did not 
play up to the form they have dis­
played in their former contests and 
Allegheny held the lead throughout 
the entire game, Tech tying the score 
only once.
Coach Biander made a change in his 
line-up, placing Carey at center and 
Moon at guard. The new combina­
tion worked very well, Scoops getting 
the tip-off the majority of the time, 
while Moon played well at guard.
Hammann put up a good game at 
forward, making two field goals in 
the second half. His second shot was 
one hand toss, well out from the bas­
ket. Windy Lynn could not get his 
eye on the basket and fell down on his 
great record for shooting fouls, mak­
ing only seven out of fifteen.
The Allegheny boys uncorked sev­
eral good shots at the beginning of 
the first half and quickly ran up their 
score. Kerr, the Allegheny captain, 
displayed great ability at forward, 
making two difficult baskets. Lynn 
dropped one of his long shots through 
the ring from the middle of the floor, 
and Carey made a field goal, the half 
ending 10-14 for Allegheny.
iTammann began the second half 
with his neat one-hand shot. It was 
at this time that Carey inadverently 
gave Allegheny two points, tossing 
the sphere through the basket. Three 
field goals by Carey, Lynn and Ham­
mann tied the score 19-19. Dunbar 
then raised Allegheny two points, nad 
Coffard made two 011 fouls. Tech 
could not make another basket, and 
the contest ended 23-21 in favor of 
Allegheny.
Score:
Hammann ...........F............... Kerr (C)
Allen .....................F.................. Dunbar
Carey (C) ...........C.............. Mountsier
Lynn ...................G.................. Kofford
Moon ...................G.................. Baldwin
Field goals—Hammann two, Allen
1, Carey 2, Lynn 2, Kerr 2, Dunbar 2, 
Mountsier 3, Baldwin 2. Fouls—Lynn 
seven out of fifteen, Baldwin five out 
of eleven. Referee Dan Daugherty.
CLASS OF 1922 MAKES 
ALL PREPARATIONS FOR 
ANNUAL SOPH DANCE
1 CLUBS GIVE 
PLEASING ENTERTAINMENT
Last Saturday evening, the Glee 
and Mandolin Clubs presented con­
certs to an- intelligent if not so large 
audience. ' In fact, the clubs enjoyed 
the audience as much as the audience 
the concert, there being sixty mem­
bers. of the clubs on- hand and an 
overflow audience of forty.
Despite the above facts, the clubs 
gaY&g^“bang-up” show. Such “pep” 
as, wa^ displayed on this concert is 
seldom shown on our larg-gi.presenta­
tions. Why, after the Glee Club’s 
“Laughing Song” so much pep was 
displayed that three of the men ran 
off the stage without waiting to ren­
der the encore.Sunday afternoon, another con­
cert was, given at the same place with 
quite.ai) increase in the audience. The 
Mandolin Club members were very 
gdod.
A special feature of the Saturday 
evening concert was Don Sillers with 
his “mopola”. He sure brought down 
the house and is an asset to the Clubs. 
Another number of special interest 
was the banjo quintette.
¡Next Thursday evening the^ Clubs 
journey to Wilmerding where-a con­
cert will be given in the Y. M. C. A. 
This is one of the places that wanted 
a Return concert last season. This 
season’s. work though, will far out­
class that of'the previous season.
INTERESTING MEETING 
PLANNED BY A. A. E.
On Thursday night, January the 
29th, the A. A. E. will hold its first 
meeting of the year. All members 
and applicants are cordially invited 
to come. The business meeting will 
commence at eight o’clock in a room 
which will be announced on the Sci­
ence bulletin boards. After a short 
business session one of the professors 
will give a good talk on some sub­
ject of vital interest to the students. 
This talk will be well worth the time 
taken to come to the meeting.
After the business and talk the 
meeting will adjourn to the Science 
Club Room for a good social time. 
All the members will have opportunity 
to get acquainted. Besides “heaving” 
there will be plenty to eat and good 
smokes. Some of the members are 
going to put on stunts which will be 
novel and entertaining. Mr. Seabright 
is in charge of the social end of the 
program so those who were at the 
last meeting will need no further urg­
ing to come. Those who were not at 
the last meeting will find out how 
much they missed.
The C. I. T. Chapter of the A. A. E. 
is growing fast. At present there are 
almost a hundred members. The 
membership will be more than doubl­
ed by the end of the year. All en­
gineering students are urged to join 
this growing organization.
Friday, February 27 is the date. 
Nine o’clock is the time. Duquesne 
Gardens ball room is the place. Every 
sophomore is going to be there. What 
for? Why the* annual soph hop of 
course. * It’s going to be a four school 
affair this year, and it’s going across 
big. Notice all those sophs wearing 
grins these days? They’re the ones 
who’ve got their date already. Yes, 
and you will have to admit the sophs 
sure do shake a wicked hoof when 
they step out.
The committee in charge has it all 
doped out that this year’s soph hop 
is going to knock ’em off their feet. 
They have Maggio’s jazz producers 
all signed up to deliver the best music 
the Garden has heard in many moons, 
and they’re going to run some nov­
elty into the program too. Sophs 
can get their tickets now from any 
member of the committee for $2.20 
which includes the war tax. Yes it’s 
bound to be a very neat little party 
when the class of 1922 shows their 
pep.
1CLUBSGICVEUPABN
TECH FRESHMEN WIN 
FROMJNDIANA, 41-31
Make Great Come- 
Back in Second Half.
Making a wonderful showing in the 
second half the Tech Plebes came up 
from behind Wednesday evening and 
beat the strong Indiana Normal team 
41-31. Indiana had a nine-point lead 
at the end of the first half, 24 to 15, 
but the Freshmen scored 26 points 
during the second period, holding In­
diana to seven.
The Plebes had trouble in solving 
Indiana's offense at first, and the Nor­
mal boys soon ran up a large score. 
Indiana displayed great ability at 
passing the ball, and superior team 
work. Llewellyn, their diminutive 
forward, sent the ball the entire 
length of the floor several times to a 
team mate waiting under the basket.
It was a new Freshman team that 
took the floor in the second half, and 
Indiana never had a chance from the 
minute the whistle blew. Where the 
Tech boys seemed rooted to the floor 
the first half, they now surprised In­
diana by their speedy work.
McCaw shot three baskets from 
well out on the floor, which with three 
fouls tied the score. Every man on 
the team put the ball through the 
ring in the period, sending Tech well 
into the lead. All the exceptional 
team work Indiana had put up in the 
first half had disappeared, and, they 
were unable to even threaten the 
Freshmen, the game ending 41 to 31.
Hill played the best game for In­
diana, his guarding throughout the 
game holding the Plebes to a lower 
score. In addition to his splendid 
work at the defensive position he 
made three goals from the floor. This 
lad is an all-around athlete, being a 
four-letter man, and captain of last 
year’s football eleven.
Anderson and Gibson played well 
for the Freshmen; Anderson's clever 
floor work helping the forwards con- 
sdierably in making baskets. McCaw 
proved he had a wonderful eye for 
the basket when he made his threo 
spectacular shots from the middle of 
the floor.
The Plebes have made a fine show­
ing so far this year, winning every 
game they have played. Every man 
on the team is working his hardest 
to go through the season without a 
defeat, and it will take a much better 
team than they have been up against 
thus far to beat them.
Score:
Freshmen. Indiana, Normal.
Gibson ..................F........................ Bath
McCaw................F.............. Llewellyn
McKenna.............C......................Apple
Anderson.............G.............................Hill
Miller .................G.................. Murman
Field goals—Gibson four, McKenna 
four, McCaw three, Miller three, An­
derson two, bath four, hill four, Llew­
ellyn two, Apple two. Fouls—Ander­
son nine out of twenty, Bath seven 
out of thirteen, Apple two out of four. 
Referee—Dan Daugherty, W. & J.
PLANS FOR JUNIOR PROM 
FORE-SHADOW BIG AFFAIR
W. & J. Defeats Tech
In Hard Fought Game
Visitors Win in La^t
Three Minutes of Play.
Allen and Lynn Star for Plaid.
Wednesday evening W. & J. nosed 
out the Tech five in another hard 
fought contest, winning 35-30. Tech 
held the lead by four points, with 
only three more minutes to play, when 
two field goals in rapid succession by 
Henry and C. Conn put the Presi­
dents ahead. The Plaid five fought 
valiantly during the short time left, 
but were unable to regain the lead.
The two teams started to play fur­
iously from the first’ tip-ofV, and it was 
evident that the game would be hotly 
contested. Both fives had a very 
tight defense, hard guarding being the 
rule throughout the entire struggle. 
At times football tactics prevailed, the 
floor men making several very pretty 
line bucks.
W. & J. got away to a good start 
before Tech dropped the ball through 
the ring. Both teams seemed to have 
trouble in locating the basket in the 
first half and many easy shots were 
missed. The first half closed with tho 
score 17 to 15 in favor of W. & J.
Tech began the second half by get­
ting three points on fouls and then 
got their eye on the basket and drop­
ped the sphere through four times in 
a few minutes. Hammann and Lynn 
both made long shots from the middle 
of the floor and Allen sent the ball 
through twice from close to the bas­
ket. The Plaid was now four points 
ahead, the score being 28-24. It look­
ed as though the Tartan five would be 
Victorious, but the jinx which lias fol­
lowed the team so far this year said 
it was not to be so.
W. & J. took time out to collect 
themselves and do some planning on 
how to stop the Techites. When 
play started again the Plaid five was 
too anxious to hold their lead and 
made three fouls, all of which Carroll 
shot. Eilson then made a basket, put­
ting the Presidetns one point ahead. 
Henry got loose under the W. J. 
basket and sent the ball through for 
two more points, C. Conn making a 
goal half a minute later. Tech kept 
on fighting but could not score and 
the contest closed 35 to 30 witli the 
Washington team in the lead.
Henry showed his wodnerful speod
throughout the whole contest, being 
in the heart of every play. This all 
American football guard weighs over 
200 pounds, but is, as fast as many 
men fifty pounds lighter During the 
first half he played stationery guard, 
but in the second was down at the 
other end of the floor the majority of 
the time. Henry cinched the game for 
W. & J. near the end of the second 
half, dropping the ball through the 
ring for his third goal.
Lynn again played a speedy game 
at guard, his excellent floor work 
helping the forwards considerably. 
He had his eye on the basket through­
out the entire game, tossing the 
sphere through the ring fourteen 
times out of seventeen attempts. 
Windy has shown this year he is one 
of the best foul shots in Western 
Pennsylvania, keeping up the good 
work he started in the Westinghouse 
game. He also made two ¡spectacular 
shots from the middle/,of „the. floor, 
one in each half.
Allen showed he.knows how to play 
the forward position in fine style, 
making four field goals in addition to 
his excellent guarding. Several times 
lie took the ball from W. & J. men 
much larger than himself. Allen is a 
now man at Tech this year, coming 
from Dennison, where he was award­
ed the position of all Ohio State guard 
for 1919.
The gym was packed to its capac­
ity, this being one of the best crowds 
out this year. Cheer Leader Yorgo 
was on hand and undor his direction 
the Tech rooters rocked the building 
with their yells.
Scorc:
W. & J. Tech.
Carroll---------  , F.......................A,llen
C. Conn ................F............. Hammann
Eilson...................C....................... Moon
Henry...................G.......................................................................... Corey
K. Conn............ .G........................ Lynn
Substitutes McCandloss for C.
Conn. Field goals, Allen four; Lynn 
thrdo; Hammann one; 1C. Conn four;
0. Conn three; Henry throe; EiUion 
one. Fouls, Lynn fourteen out of sev­
enteen; Carroll thirteen out of seven­
teen. Referee—Al Slach, Pittsburgh.
The Tech Flyers’ Club will meet 
on Thursday, January 29 at 1 o’clock 
p. m. in the Union. This is to be a 
very important meeting and it is de­
sired that all members be present to 
plan for future activities and talk 
over the question of whether or not 
Tech shall enter the intercollegiate 
flying meet.
Just before the Christmas holidays 
the flyers gave a dance at the S. A. E. 
house which was enjoyed by ab’out 
twenty couples. Feature dances, and 
some whopping flying stories aroused 
such a spirit that those who attended 
are strong for having the party re­
peated.
Preliminary tickets for the Prom 
will be on sale till Wednesday eve­
ning and all those who are planning to 
go should have bought them by that 
time as the committee is basing its 
orders for programs and favors on 
the number of these tickets sold. 
Don't miss out on this wonderful af­
fair. Remember there is but one Prom 
in a life time and if you are a Junior 
then this is the one you should not 
miss. If you have not made a date 
for it do it tonight. Write home to 
that one and only real girl and fix it 
up, or call up the dorms tonight, she 
will be tickled to death to go. Of 
course this is leap year but this is 
one affair she can't ask you to or 
there wouldn't be any Junior that can 
dance that wouldn’t be there.
Seniors are invited to the prom and 
also any one who has been on the 
campus three years as a student, this 
includes students that have come here 
from other colleges who have spent 
a similar time at the other institu­
tions. The alumni is also cordially 
invited and those wishing to come 
should write Mr. J. Todd and enclose 
seven dollars and fifty cents and he 
will mail you tickets.
ATHLETICS DISCUSSED 
AT SCIENCE ASSEMBLY
The general subject at the Science 
assembly last Wednesday was ath­
letics at C. I. T. C. B. Schmidt, treas­
urer of the Athletic Association and 
captain of the track team presided. 
Dr. Marks was the first speaker. He 
said that athletics is the best and in 
fact the only good method of showing 
the standards of a school. Very fow 
people sec the catalogues and the 
greatest newspaper publicity is on 
athletics. A school is best known by 
the conduct of its rooters and players 
and Tech has been well known for the 
great spirit shown by its students. Wo 
must keep up this reputation. The 
kind of rooting at Tech is not to be 
criticised but the amount of it. We 
must support our teams. Wo need a 
few yells at the games and good con­
certed cheering. We must also help 
by assisting the athletes to keep up 
with their work by assisting them 
over the rough places in their studies.
He said that the basketball this 
year is very promising. The players 
fight hard and clean. Baseball is also 
very promising. We have fine mate­
rial in the school, and the fellows go­
ing out for the teams should keep up 
in their work to keep the team togeth­
er well. All the fellows possible 
should be out for the team. All must 
cooperate to have a successful season. 
He closed by reiterating his first re­
marks that we must have the right 
kind of spirit and plenty of it.
The next speaker was Mr. H. S. 
Nichol, the Science representative on 
the new committee on the athletic 
policy. He gave a report on the work 
done by the committee, mostly in the 
form of motions which had been pass­
ed.
On December 8 a meeting was held 
in the Pittsburgh Athletic Club at 
which the following motions were 
passed:
That students be given credit for 
work in the gymnasium and that ad­
ditional credit be given students par­
ticipating in the major sports, that 
the additional credit for participating 
in major sports be substituted for 
credits given in cultural subjects.
“That the most pressing need at 
Carnegie Tech at the present time is 
a modern gymnasium and proper ath­
letic and recreational facilities.
“Athletic Council—Full and final 
authority shall be vested in an ath­
letic council composed of three mem­
bers from each of the groups interest- 
(Continued on page 4.)
COSMOPOLITAN CLUB
OF NATIONAL SOCIETY
Tho members and patrons of tho 
C. I. T. Cosmopolitan Club will bo 
glad to learn of tho election of tho 
local society as a member of tho Na­
tional Association of Cosmopolitan 
Clubs. This action was taken by tho 
national body at its annual convention 
which was held this year at tho Uni­
versity of Syracuse. The national 
body is the American organization in 
tho Corda Fratros Association of Cos­
mopolitan Clubs Federation Interna­
tionale des Etudiants.
The local chapter has boon organ­
ized two years and is well started for 
an important place in the activities of 
the Institution and the national recog­
nition will add greatly to its strength.
A report of the delegate to the Sy­
racuse convention will be had at a 
meeting of the club tomorrow (Thurs­
day) evening in Room Gl, , Science 
Building. The meeting is called for 
8 o’clock and a large atendance is de­
sired, as several important matters 
are to be taken up at this time.
An added feature will be an address 
on an important international topic 
by a representative of the Pittsburgh 
Chamber of Commerce.
PLEBES ENTERTAIN SOPHS 
AT ENJOYABLE DANCE
The Freshman class of Margaret 
Morrison entertained the Sophomore 
class at an informal dance in the 
Union Friday evening, January-23, 
1920. The Union was attractively 
decorated in the class colors, balloons 
and serpentine ribbon. .The music 
furnished by Dougherty’s orchestra 
was especially good and the programs 
were maroon with gold M. M. seals. 
Mr. Thompson and Miss McCampbell 
who danced in “Bohemia Unlimited” 
gave an exhibition dance.
An elimination dance was one of' 
the features. The favor for this dance 
was a gingerbread man in a choco­
late suit adorned with pink and white 
buttons.
Miss Parry, Dr. Gordon, and, Mrs. 
Conrad acted as chaperones and the 
committee in charge was: Eleanor 
Schomberg, social chairman; Ruth 
Snyder, Aurelia Schlerfer, Abigail 
Blackford, Dorothy Grant.

---------------------------------------------------

And no used-to-be-king ever smoked a more 
exquisite Turkish' cigarette than Murad.
Sales far exceeding any other high-grade 
cigarette.
100% PURE TURKISH—the world'! moil
famous tobacco for cigarettes. /
3 Judge for \
yourself—/
%\H m,
THE TURKISCARETTE
^ Ænaxiqif\oJ
Mtkt'i of Ih, Hlfh.l CnJt Tu*!, h anJ StvfUmi tifonllu In Iht tVoilJ
BATTERY
“Exi de"
SERVICE
SItartan
Published every week by undergraduates of the Carnegie Institute of 
Technology under the supervision of the Student Activities Board.
Entered in the postoffice of PittBburgh as second-class matter.
SUBSCRIPTION RATES 
This year $1.60 _________ 5c the copy_________________Canada, $1.75
PAGE TWO. __ _______________ __________
Editor-in.Chief...................................................................................LeRoy E. Emcrich
Phone Hazel 9422
Business Manager ..............................................................................T. W. AllsworthPhone Hazel 9425.
EDITORIALSchool Editors
Managing EditorM. M. C. S............Margaret J. Griffen
L. K. Paquin
Assistant Managing EditorsArts..................................T. R. Hinckley
F. I. SmithOther Assistants
C. L. LakeL. A. McCardell 
Arthur LubinNews EditorJ. R. Barrow
J. T. AmesGertrude Baton
Associate News EditorMargaret Stolzenbaugh 
Adele GumbertW. D. HallOlga Kiefer
Athletic Editor
G. R. GoodrichBUSINESS STAFF 
D. A. SillersAssistant Athletic EditorN. E. Fox
Fred L. KnowlesWm. Obenour
Circulation ManagerAdvertising Manager
H. G. AtchleyM. I. Cohen
TARTAN OFFICE..........................................................................Room 162, Design
Hours—1:00 to 4:00 Wednesdays.
12:00 to 1:00 Thursdays.
The Editor-in-Chief is responsible for the policy of this paper; the Man­
aging Editor for the make up.
All business communications should be sent to the Business Manager 
Any delay in delivery of this paper or change of address should be reported 
at once.
The Tartan welcomes all communications of student interest, if signed, 
the signature to be withheld if desired.
All news items must be in the student postoffice, Central Building, before 
4:30 P. M. Fridays.
INDUSTRIES PLEBES TO ENTERTAIN SOPHOMORES
Following the custom of the past 
the Freshmen in the Division of In­
dustries will act as hosts to the Soph­
omores at an informal reception and 
dance on February 6. The affair will 
.take place in the Union and according
to the plans of the social committee 
it promises to be one of the best given 
this season. All the students of the 
Division • are cordially invited to at­
tend. The Sophomores at the open­
ing of the school year entertained the 
new comers with a smoker and now 
the Frosh wish to return the courtesy.
At a meeting of the class last week 
Stewart P. Smith was elected presi­
dent to fill the vacancy left by the 
withdrawal of its former encumbant 
from school.
r70R generations Turkish cigarettes 
*¦ have been smoked by the élite of 
every nation on Earth, regardless of 
race, religion or politics.
SPIRIT
It is an old question whether or not Tech spirit is up to its former 
standards. It is not the age of the question which prompts comment but 
the necessity in the hope that something will be done soon. Spirit in our 
institution may be classified as (1) class spirit; (2) spirit in activities other 
than athletic activities and (3) spirit shown at and in athletic contests.
That shown by the two lower classes at present is the poorest manifesta­
tion of spirit ever attempted. The Plebes admit that they arc “getting away 
with murder”; the Sophomores recognize the fact and smile. Plebe regula­
tions are one of the essentials of a college career and no one is humiliated by 
being made to obey them. There is a thought by those affected that it is 
humiliation, but that is only necessary to break-up the “King of the Earth” 
ideas everybody experiences leaving high school. Why smile then, Sopho­
mores, and allow such things to continue? As the so-called “Police” of the 
school, you are looked to enforce regulations laid down by tradition, pre­
cedent and necessity. There are still some additional regulations whieh 
might be included in the present list. Why not make the “meek and lowly” 
break into a run 011 certain parts of the campus? Why not have them speak 
to everyone of their sex that they meet 011 the campus? Why can’t we see 
some signs of life on the campus and not the features of the worn-out (?) 
tired and depleted factory hand?
The importance of a general assembly each month is unquestionable but 
it is understood that recently the administration has prevented any such 
plans. If we are to have student government why not insist upon an as­
sembly once a month. There is where spirit is manifested other than in 
athletic activities. Como out to hear what your representatives have to say 
ami What they are doing. They are your choice, why not support them.
The student body deserves comment upon their attendance and support 
games. It is a rather sad story that more cannot be ac- 
gym murium. The spirit at, the games has been fine even 
the majority of the games.
It will be realized that good spirit is brought about by 
by a lighting team. We have a fighting team now. 
Why, can there not; be a winning team fostered at. Tech? Why can’t those, 
V,ho unselfishly piil.'ln tin1 majority of their time to win, be given a chance 
'to nmke good scholastically, at least in exceptional cases. Those, who are 
talking about poor spirit always talk and most of us listen like a funnel in 
one ear and out of the otluw. If Tech is to have a winning team, start 
Momothing.
OFFICIAL ANNOUNCEMENT 
GEORGE II. SMITH SCHOLARSHIP
An annual scholarship of one hundred dollars is awarded to a member 
of the Junior Class of the Division of Science and Engineering, by the Alum­
ni of that Division. The scholarship is offered to any junior in good standing 
and to any fourth year night student of this Division.
In awarding the scholarship, scholastic standing, personal need, person­
ality and the applicant's participation in student and class activities are taken 
into consideration.
Application forms may be obtained at the office of Director Mott, at the 
Alumni office arid at the office of the Registrar. These forms nuist be re­
turned to the Alumni office at once.' • ... &---— . ’’ ' '•
THE NEW REFERENCE LIBRARY
The old “Y” hut is once more a scene of activity—but this time as a 
library for the benefit of all students, in all divisions, of Carnegie Institute 
. of Technology. • ' • .
The library is open each school day from 9 to 9, Saturday 9 to 5. Mrs. 
Wappat, the Librarian, or Miss Faucett, the Assistant Librarian, will be 
llOi-e to direct and help you at all times.
Here you will find books for study, and books for recreation. Special 
shelves and tables will be set aside for your required reading and reference 
work.
There will be a good collection of magazines and papers—general and 
technical. All books and periodicals are to be used only in the library, except 
the books in the Alcove. These are from Carnegie Library, and may be bor­
rowed for home/use on regular library cards. Students who do not .have 
cards may obtain th’dni here. Our present lending collection will be con- 
.stantly Increased. It now comprises some classic and light fiction, and a few 
tif the standard books of non-fiction. Any book in the circulating collection 
of Carnegie Library will be brought to our library by means of our daily 
messenger service, and will be charged to you here,thus saving you the time 
and trouble necessary in going over to Carnegie Library.
For a time, the library will not have on its shelves all required material. 
Book orders may be delayed, and various difficulties, usual in a new or­
ganization, will arise. But this is a temporary condition.
Make the fullest use of the resources of the new library, students, and 
lot it help you in all possible ways. Como in to study come in to read—come 
in to request books from .Carnegie Library.
The library Is yours. Use it.
THE TARTAN
PHOTOGRAPHIC CLUB 
HOLDS FIRST MEETING
SIGMA ALPHA E 
HOLDS INITIATION
WEDNESDAY JANUARY 28, 1920.
Mention the TARTAN when buying of these Advertisers.
An enthusiastic group turned out 
last Thursday evening for the purpose 
of organizing a photographic club. 
Officers were elected and plans made 
to start active work. A committee is 
working on a constitution and by­
laws, while efforts are being made to 
secure space in some of the Institute 
buildings for dark rooms. Dr. T. C. 
Mackay of the Division of Science 
and Engineering gave an interesting 
discourse on Elementary Principles of 
Photography.
A second meeting of the club will 
be held this coming Thursday evening 
at 7:30 in the Union. All persons in­
terested in any form of photography 
are cordially invited to be present and 
get acquainted with the members who 
will act, as hosts at an informal 
smoker. You may already know every 
one there—but do you know them 
photographically?
The following men were chosen as 
officers: President, K. W. Macalpine; 
vice president, T. W. Copeland; treas­
urer, C. G. Hauser; secretary, B. Mer- 
ion Shields.
SEVERAL HIGH SCORES 
IN VOLUNTARY PLAN
The evening of January twenty- 
fourth marked the first large initia­
tion held by the local chapter of Sig­
ma Alpha Epsilon since October. The 
initiation was held at the Fort Pitt 
Hotel.
The following men were initiated: 
W. J. Hawkins, A. C. Temmel, C. J. 
Schumacher, F. II. Allison, J. L. An­
derson, Robert Donovan, H. D. Son- 
neman, C. J. Livingstone, and R. F. 
Horn.
The initiation was followed by a 
banquet in honor of the Pittsburgh 
Alumni Association of Sigma Alpha 
Epsilon.
L. T. Barry acted as chairman for 
the evening and Dr. 1). T. James, 
president of the of the local Alumni 
Association, as toastmaster.
The speakers of the evening were: 
W. J. Hawkins, for the initiates; Dr. 
R. E. Brenneman, C. C. Jett, S. H. 
Wood, E. W. Gaylord and K. L. Kort- 
landt, of Pittsburgh Alumni ; and J. 
R. Chain, of the Pitt Chapter.
A feature of the banquet was the 
novel entertainment provided, which 
kept the banqueters in a gay mood 
throughout the evening.
Bas ks es tlFrilB
Red Cummins the freshman who 
tied the flag on the pole at Forbes 
Field the night before the Pitt-Tech 
football game leads the scoring in the 
Voluntary Plan of Physical Educa­
tion. With forty points to his credit 
this early it looks as if Red will be 
wearing one of the emblems before 
the close of the winter quarter. Clark, 
a lad from Kentucky, is running Red 
a close second with a total of thirty- 
eight points. Mertz a midget fresh­
man ranks third with 23 points. Red 
in winning his forty points has scored
Chinning 12 times.................. 8 points
Dipping 12 times .................... 8 joints
High jump 4 ft. 8 in................ 7 points
Wrestling class “B”..............10 points
Dive and roll 9 feet................ 7 points
There are at present 314 men who 
have won points on the Plan with a 
total of 1,834. The seven men who 
are leading in points ai'e:
Red Cummins................. .40 points
A. D. Clark..............................38 points
G. S. Mertz...........:..................23 points
A. C. Crago..................20 points
K. R. Oliver ...........................18 points
Craidhead ...............................15 points
II. A. Baugh...........................15 points------—O----------As a testimonial of the appreciation 
of the citzcns of Now Brunswick, a 
handsome chest of silver was given 
to George Foster Sanford, the Rut­
gers football coach. Judge Daly made 
the presentation at a testimonial din­
ner given in Sanford’s honor. ‘ Gov. 
Runyon of New Jersey was one of the 
distinguished guests present.
Ï0 HOLO HOME CONCERT
The glee club of Margaret Morrison 
is progressing very rapidly in view 
of the fact1 of its recent organization. 
The club, which consists of forty 
girls, is under the direction of Harvey 
Gaul, well known in Pittsburgh musi­
cal circles. A home concert, some­
time in April, is being planned now. 
A formal dance will follow the con­
cert. Several solos will be given as 
well as several numbers by the 
“Stringers” which has recently been 
reorganized. The whole school is 
back of the two clubs and a great 
deal of enthusiasm is being shown 
over the plans for the concert.
The glee club is' to sing at the gen­
eral assembly, Wednesday the 28th. 
Two other concerts outside of school 
have been arranged for by the man­
ager, Jean Aiken.
----------V---------
It seems that Dan Cupid has taken 
matters Into his own hands. At Wash­
ington University, three students 
have already fallen before the terrible 
onslaughts of Cupid. They are to be 
married some time in the near future.H1 It:
Chancellor Day of Syracuse Univer­
sity has decided that for a fraternity 
to hold so many dances is detrimental 
to the students (co-ed). He has there­
fore, given permission to each fra­
ternity to hold only three dances an­
nually: two to last until ten o’clock, •and the other until eleven,
See Daily Papers for Information of 
our 25% Clearance Sale.
GOODLOW’S GOOD CLOTHES
Of purest Wool—
Of finest Make—
Durable—
Lasting—
Of latest Styles—
Wonderful values—
Sure Satisfaction !
Goodlow’s Good Clothes—
Opportunity’s
Offer of Style-perfection—
Dress Up ! Buy Now !
College Men appreciate them— 
Ladies admire Men who wear them— 
Others envy them—
This is your chance—
Here is your selection—
Even now awaiting your visit—
SERVICE FIRST !
Good Clothes
507 Market St.,
209-211 Smithfield St.,
932 Liberty Ave.
Akron Reading
Amsterdam Schenectady
Cleveland Syracuse
Milwaukee Terre Haute
Pittsburgh Wilkes-Barre
(3 stores) Youngstown
IRON CITY ELECTRIC CO.
Broad and Sheridan Ave. 
All Kinds of Batteries 
Repaired and Recharged
»" "=r -

---------------------------------------------------

THE TARTAN
BIBLE CLASSES HOLD
SUCCESSFUL SOCIAL
Last Friday night the student class­
es of the First Baptist Church held 
an interesting- party. It was given 
by the men’s class. The Yokefellows 
for the Friendly class of women since 
the latter won a membership and at­
tendance contest from the former. 
About sixty-five were present and all 
had a jolly good time. There were 
games, singing, specialties and, of 
course refreshments. A great num­
ber of those who attended were from 
Tech. More socials and parties are 
being planned by the Bible classes 
and this is one good reason for com­
ing to Sunday School. All students 
will be welcomed most heartily.
OFFICERS ELECTED 
BY SCIENCE JUNIORS
A meeting of the Junior Class of 
Science School was held after the 
General Assembly last Wednesday to 
elect officers to take the places left 
vacant by those who left school. 
Those elected were as follows:
Treasurer, Nichol; secretary, Irwin; 
senator, one year, Butts; senator, two 
years, Hawkins.
TECH MECHANICS CLUB
ENTERS SOCIAL CLUB
The Tech Mechanics held an inter­
esting meeting after assembly last 
week. President R. F. Warner called 
for discussion on a smoker. This form 
of amusement did not appeal to the 
members, so they decided to hold a 
dance.
The dance will be one of those real, 
live kind, always turned out by Tech 
organizations. Mr. Chick was appoint­
ed chairman of the committee, while 
“Gus” Kann and Duncan will help 
him out.
The club was very much in favor 
of choosing a publicity man. After a 
hot election for this office, Mr. Chick 
came out on top.
---------O---------
TEN THOUSAND DOLLARS FOR 
PLATFORM SUGGESTIONS BY 
YOUNG VOTERS.
Through the Republican National 
Committee, Mr. Truxton Beale, for­
mer United States Minister to Persia, 
offers cash prizes aggregating $10,000 
for the best suggestions for the Re­
publican platform by young voters, 
both men and women, in the country.
His offer has been formally accept­
ed by Chairman Will H. Hays, of the 
National Committee, and the contest 
will open at once and close March 31, 
1920.
A first prize of .$6,000 will be given 
for the best manuscript received; 
$3,000 for the second best and $1,000 
for the third.
Manuscripts are limited to 0,000 
words and must be addressed to 
Walker Blaine Beale Contest, Divis­
ion of Young Voters, Republican Na­
tional Committee, 923 Woodvard 
Building, Washington, D. C.. Four 
typewritten copies must be submitted, 
one only of the number being signed.
Under date of November 20, 1919, 
Mr. Beale, in a letter to Chairman 
Hays, quoted William Roscoe Thay­
er’s description of a National Cionven- 
tion, with its scenes of turmoil and 
strife, as given in his life of Roose­
velt. In this chapter Mr. Thayer said:
“A spectator from Mars might have 
remarked, ‘but for so important a 
business as the choice of a candidate 
who may become president of the 
United States you ought to have quiet, 
deliberation, free play, not for those 
who can shout the loudest but for 
those who can speak the wisest.’
“And to this remark the howling, 
whirling dervishes who attended the 
Convention might have responded, if 
they waited long enough to hear it 
through, by yelling, ‘Hail, Hail, the 
gang’s all here,’ and would have dart­
ed off to catch up with their fellow 
bacchanals,” etc.Commenting upon this depiction of 
a National Convention, Mr. Beale in 
his letter said:“If these conditions were strange 
for the namination of a president they 
were still more strange for working 
out and formulating the principles 
and planks of a political platform.
“A political platform would surely 
have more clearness if thought out in 
the libraries and studies of the schol­
ars of the country than in the tur­
moil and noise of a political conven­
tion; it would have more consistency 
if made away from its jarring ele­
ments; it would have fewer evasions 
and ambiguities if not made under 
the pressure of its clashing interests, 
and the great organic truths of sociol­
ogy and economics for the guidance 
of a party could be more profoundly 
considered and more effectively ex­
pressed.“There never has been a time when 
the two great parties have differed so 
fundamentally in principle as now, 
differences that go to the very foun­
dation of society; never a time when 
so many brands of quack medicine 
have been so energetically hawked 
about as cures for the distempers of 
the state, and therefore never a time 
when an honest platform and straight 
thinking, holding out no false hopes 
and promising no short cuts to the 
millennium, is more important than 
now.”
For these reasons, Mr. Beale sub­
scribed $10,000 to the Republican
National Committee to be offered in 
prizes as above outlined. The only 
stipulation he made was that the 
Committee assume the responsibility 
of providing the machinery and ex­
pense required for reading the man­
uscripts submitted. This the Com­
mittee has agreed to do.
“Of course,” he added, “it is not 
my idea that such a platform would 
necessarily be adopted by the Na­
tional Convention, but the educative 
effect on the people at large might 
have a beneficial indirect result; and 
may aid you in your well directed 
efforts to interest young people in 
politics.”
Mr. Beale suggested as judges Dr. 
David Jayne Hill, Dr. Nicholas Mur­
ray Butler, and the Hon. Albert J. 
Beveridge.
Chairman Hays formally accepted 
Mr. Beale’s offer, approving the 
judges named, the conditions of the 
contest and suggesting that the re­
wards be known as the Walker Blaine 
Beale Prizes, in memory of Mr. 
Beale’s son who was killed in the 
service. At the suggestion of Chair­
man I-Iays, the contest is open to all 
men and women twenty-five years of 
age or younger.
The following appeal to the young 
voters of the country was thereupon 
issued by the Committee:
Young Voters Should Participate.
To the Young Men and Women of 
America:
The Republican National Commit­
tee wishes to express its gratitude to 
Mr. Truxtun Beale for his patriotic 
suggestion. The Committee urges 
the popular participation in the com­
ing national election and is eager for 
the active cooperation of the young­
er men and women of the "nation, so 
many thousands of whom did their 
all in the late war.
The Republican Party shall con­
tinue to be the instrument in this 
country to apply to new and chang­
ing conditions the wisdom of exper­
ience and the efficacy of an honest, 
zealous service. The delegates to 
the national convention will be glad 
of the opportunity to study the pro­
posed platforms submitted by the 
young voters of the land.
We suggest that you adhere to the 
following rules of the prize contest:
Rules for the Contest.
1. The contest is open to all men 
and women not overy twenty-five 
years of age. Attach a signed state­
ment with your manuscript that you 
are a qualified contestant.
2. Submit four typewritten copies 
of your manuscrip. Sign only one. 
Write on one side of the paper.
3. Manuscripts must not exceed 
six thousand words.
4. Send all manuscripts to Walker 
Blaine Beale Contest, Division of 
Young Voters, Republican National 
Committee, 923 Woodward Bldg., 
Washington, D. C.
5. All manuscripts must be in 
judges’ hands not later than March 
31, 1920.
(>. Announcement of prize winners 
will be made prior to the opening of 
the Republican National Convention in 1920.
REPUBLICAN NATIONAL
COMMITTEE.
DR. HAMILTON SPEAKS
TO GRAPHICA MEMBERS
The men of the Printing Depart­
ment enjoyed a real treat on “The 
History of Printing”. The lecture was 
delivered by Dr. Hamilton, Appren­
tice Chairman for the United Typoth- 
atae of America. Dr. Hamilton point­
ed out many interesting events con­
nected with the invention of printing.
After this talk the Graphiea held 
an important meeting. It was decided 
that a campaign would be started to 
supply those who want it with station­
ery, name cards and book plates. All 
funds taken in are put to good advan­
tage by the Graphiea.
A banquet will be held in the near 
future, at which time plans for the 
year will be laid.---------0----------
COLLEGIATE GOSSIP.
The first year girls of Baylor Uni­
versity set the example of class spirit 
to their freshman brothers by appear­
ing at school with their hair done up 
in a uniform manner.* * *
In Washington University, the Eng­
lish department recently quizzed the 
freshman on the “College Alma Ma­
ter.” The twenty-five freshmen who 
did not know the song were suitably 
punished. 9* * *
Dartmouth is working on a new 
$150,000 swimming pool. The tank 
will be 75 by 30 feet with a maximum 
depth of seven and one-half feet.
Painted co-eds will no longer be an 
art at Oklahoma Univirsity. The 
Vigilance Committee, armed with wet 
sponges, are launching a campaign 
to prevent this.* * *
The University of Oklahoma has 
probably the youngest student that 
will ever come to that school. She is 
six years old, registered in the School 
of Fine Arts.* * *
At the University of Iowa, plans 
are under consideration which will 
require literally that co-eds will have 
to “swim for their diplomas.” Here­
tofore swimming has been taught as 
an elective subject only at Iowa.* ? *
While the team was on its way to 
Urbana, 111., to the University of Illi­
nois team, White left the train to mail 
a letter to his sweetheart, and while 
on the mission the porter closed the
WEDNESDAY, JANUARY 28, 1920.
PENCILS
Setting
me il in 
CWorld
17 Black Degrees 3 Copying
AMERICAN LEAD PENCIL CO. • N. Y.
STUDENTS WELCOME
Fred Suddaby’s Cafeteria
BUREAU OF MINES BUILDING
11 A. M. to 2 P. M. Eveiy School Day
GREAT EATS AT 
THE SCHENLEY LUNCII 
FORBES AND CRAIG STREETSFREI) SUnnABY, Proprietor
DO YOU DANCE?
LE880NS CLASS AND PRIVATE
Q U E S' DANCING ACADEMY
BELL PHONE
A WELCOME TO ALL
OAKLAND
COMMUNITY
HOUSE
3904 FORBES STREET 
OPEN SEVEN DAYS A WEEK.
DRESS SUITS
The Joy of Winter Swimming.
The exercise derived from swimming has not only the endorsement of our leading social workers but our most eminent physicians as well. Most people indulge in swimming “in the good old summer time” but the fact remains that the body needs the exercise derived more in winter than in the summer, when it is possible to get outdoors in the open and avoid the evils that come from a “pent-up” life. The last person to fall ill from colds, coughs and the more serious winter ailments is the habitual winter swimmer, whose flesh becomes hardened and is thus able to resist severe weather. There’s a lot of ioy, vigor and wholesome exercise to be derived by swimming that can be had in no other way. The Pittsburg hNatotor- ium Pool is open all winter.
TUESDAY AND THURSDAY POOL IS FOR LADIES ONLY.
AL LA PLACE
Formerly of William Penn and Fort Pitt Hotel 
I AM SERVING
--------------A--------------
Clean, Wholesome and Home Cooked Dinner for 35c 
-----------At--------------
STANDARD RESTAURANT
3621 FIFTH AVENUE NEAR ATWOOD STREET
imuuinmiiMiiignuumliiiiiaiiiuiuiiiiinDiiiiiiiuiiiiiiiiiiiiuiiiiiiiuiiiiiiiiiiiiuiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiNiniuniiiuiiiuiuiimiiiiiiaiiniiigunuinniiiiiniiiuiiiiiiiiuiiuiiiiinuiiuiiiiiumiuunniinii 
OPEN DAY AND NIGHT PARK 411-R
EAT AT THE
SAVOY RESTAURANT
SPECIAL STUDENT’S LUNCH
3807 FIFTH AVE.
kiiuiiiiiiliwiiiiiiliiaiiMiiniMíiiiiiiiiiiMiiiiiiiiiiaiiiiiiuiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiaiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiimiiamiiniiiüiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiüiiiiiiiiiiiiMiiiüiiiiiiinimiüiimiiiiiiiiiiiiiuiuiiiiiiiniiii}
HELLO, BILL, MEET ME AT THE
OAKLAND KITCHEN
116 OAKLAND AVENUE
PAGE TH&E15.
vestibule as the train started. The 
football man made an end run and 
climbed to the top of the car, where 
he remained until the next stop. He 
was nearly frozen when the train 
reached the next stopping* place.* * *
Unions are growing popular even 
in colleges. Nine colleges in Wiscon­
sin have formed a union for the pur­
pose of raising a $5,000,000 endow­
ment fund to pay for their increasing 
expenses.* * *
Plans are being negotiated at Yale 
University for a track meet with Ox­
ford and Cambridge Universities to 
be held next July. A letter has also 
been sent to Harvard to obtain their 
opinion on a combined meet. If such 
materializes, this will be the fourth 
time that a Yale and Harvard track 
team has met Oxford and Cambridge 
in England. Each has won two of the 
contests.* ? *
Sophomores of the University of 
Washington are to adopt a new in­
signia. Corduroy trousers and wool­
en shirts for the men and swagger 
sticks for the girls are soon to ap­
pear. ..........
If your fountain pen is in need of 
repairs, if you need a new, satisfactory 
pen or eversharp pencil, stationery, 
dance programs, 'favors, special felt 
goods or Tech recognition pins, call 
at SINGER PEN & GIFT SHOP in 
Jenkins Arcade.—Adv.
The Mellon National Bank Is 
one of the most thoroughly 
organized, strongest financial 
institutions in. the country.
It is in a position to handle 
any account, large or small, 
with care and competency.
MELLON NATIONAL BANK
Pittsburgh, Pa.
wmimmutunrnttmmmmmmmmm
OAKLAND EXPRESS AND " 
TRANSFER COMPANY
Boll Phono« 57S & 9169 Schonley 
P. A. A. 1092-R 
229 ATWOOD 8TREET 
PITTSBURGH, PA.
Household Goods Moved, Stored, 
Packod and Shipped.
? BELLEFIELD PRE8BYTERIAN X CHURCH -J
X Bellefleld and Fifth Avenue»
X Rev. Robert MaeGowan, D. D., ' 
y Minister. '
y Preaching Servieeo 11 and 8. !
£ Sunday school at 10. jV Christian Endeavor at 7. 5Y We want the Tech boyB to at- ?tend our services and loarn to 3v know us as the congregation of 3 Z “Friendly People.1’ A hearty *{ A welcome awaits you.
Boll—Schonloy 389
MISS O’LEARY
(Formerly with J. E. T. Shunmn) 
DRY CLEANING—REPAIRING 
Liulios' and Mon’s Ulotlios, Oixrpots
Work Guaranteed niul Turned Out on Short Notice.
Will cull for nil pressing and «loaning at Frat Houses.
3933 FORBES STREET (Oakland) 
PITTSBURGH, PA.
THE PLACE WHERE -j
STUDENTS J
TAKE THEIR SHOES I
Hellefield 1
Shoe Repairing Co. ji
Across from the Library
TECH BARBER SHOP Ij
NEAREST TO TECH !;
Cor. Craig and Forbes ji
FRED FARGEL, Proprietor.
Nearest and Best Laundry ifi
Agency. ro
Mniirf iMmlrtu (ilmnjn'iuittmt
Fifth and Morewood Avenues. 
Hamuol II. (loldoiMion, i-h. U,, Rabbi.
.......pit' Ntudy Tel., Uohonloy SJ75.
SUNDAY LECTURE 
Sunday Morning at 11:10. 
Subject: — “Enlightened Selfishness."
Sabbath Service, Saturday Morning 
at 10:45.
Third United ' 
Presbyterian Church
DR. HUGH B. SPEER, Pastor 
Shady and Northumberland Avenues 
Graded Sunday School, 10:00 A. M. Preaching Services, 1:1:00 A. M. and 8:00 I*. M.
Young People's Service, 7:00 P. M. Brief and Warm-Hearted Messages. A cordial welcome to all.
A8CEN8ION EPISCOPAL CHURCH E'lnworth Avonuo and Neville 8tro«t DR. WYATT BROWN, Rector DR. ROS8 R. CALVIN, Aosistant.Sunday Sorvloeo, 8:00 A. M., 11:00 V M. and 8:00 P. M.College Mon’s BIblo Class at 10:00, i* d by Dr. Calvin.All RtiH'-nts Genuinely Wmlcoms.
ST. PAUL’S CATHEDRAL 
Fifth Ave. and Craig St.Masses: 6:30, 8:00, 9:00, 10:00 and11:00 A. M. on Sundays and Holy Days.Vespers on SundayB at 7:30 P M. I’ow F>8. Middle Alula. for Trx:h Stu-lAnln
FOR HIRE
Also Complete Stock of Tuxedos, Cutaways, Prince 
Alberts, etc. Evening Wear Accessories.
WHITTINGTON DRESS SUIT CO.
¦dniiiniuiiifliiniMJiniiniiiiiauiiMnnamiñnniiltiiiiiniiiiiRiiiiffliraiiiiimDi
SKIB0 INN
EATS
Cigars and Candy
(Reformed)“AYARD and DITHRIDGE 8TREET8 FREDERICK C. NAU, Minister. 8ERVICE8:Sunday School—9:46 A. M.Morning Worship—11 A. M.Social hour and Luncheon for stu­
dents, 15c, at 6 o’clock.
Christian Endeavor—7 V. M. 
Popular Evening Services at 7:45. 
Sermon for Head and Heart 
A cordial welcome to all Students.
DIXONS
ncil"the master drawing/.
quickens your 
pencil work, 
makes it easier 
and better. It 
is a friend in 
deed and at 
need.
Sold by loading 
stationers—at school 
and in town.
Grace Church
0002020602010201010200480102000002020002020102010201090201000201000100020101530200020107

---------------------------------------------------

DRIVE PULLEY 68 R.PM./OUTLINE OF MAIN DRIVE
BROOKLYN ELEVATOR 6-MILLING CO.
~~—  Brooklyn, N.Y,
DRIVEN\PULLEY
__H.R Required 150
I -----Belt Speed 2990 F.RMv I- ----- R.P.M. Drive Pulley 68——j—-— „ Diam, Drive Pulley I4'0’'
, I ' Diam. Driven Pulley 4'8'
Specified GOODYEAR BELT. 30"6 Ply
BLUE STREAK CONSTRUCTION
as well as long-lasting treat,
It helps appetite and digestion, 
keeps teeth clean and breath 
sweet, allays thirst.
CHEW IT AFTER EUERV MEAL
Sealed Tight- a Kept Right
PAGE FOUR.THE TARTANWEDNESDAY JANUARY 28, 1920.
PENN ANDAVENUES
UDEBUEHL AND SON I
IN AND F" * MK8TOWN
(8.60 to $1B.60
CUT DOWN YOUR 8H0E EXPENSE by buying better nhocn. You will find them far cheapcr to wear than nhoeo which arc not no high In quality.
Our new modcln for FALL and WINTER are now In, and they a-e full of nnap—Juot nultable for the college man.
PLEBES LOSE LAST CONTESI IO BELLVUE
Firs^ Game Loát in Season. 
Captain Anderson Stars.
OAKLAND 
SAVINGS & TRUST 
COMPANY
Member Federal Reserve System 
Capital - - - $200,000.00 
Surplus and Undivided
Profits - - $260,000.90 
Deposits, Over - $4,000,000.00
SAFE DEPOSIT BOXES FOR RENT
'I’he Tartan Plebes played an up­
hill, but «tubborn Kamo Saturday 
night, suffering their first defeat of 
the «eason at the hands of the Belle­
vue High five by a «core of 33-32.
Bellevue took the lead at the first 
tipp-off and maintained it except for 
a few minute« in the Kecond half, 
when the Plebes, led by AnderHon 
with hi« four BUceeHHful shots from 
the center of the floor, staged their 
UHual comeback, but in their eager- 
neHB to win lont the j;ame on two foul» 
called in the last few minute« of play.
Eaton and Schve«ter «tarred for 
Bellevue, while Anderson's work for 
the Plaid wa« the outstanding feature 
of the game. Gib«on at forward al«o 
played an excellent game.
Plebe«—32 Bellevue—3«.
McCau ..................F.........................Eaton
Gib«on ..................F.....................Fleming
McKenna .............C................ Braun
AnderHon .............G.............. Schve«ter
Miller...................G.........................Grant
Field goals—Eaton 5, Fleming 1, 
SehvcHter 5, McCau 1, Gibson 2, Mc­
Kenna 2, Anderson 5. Fouls—Eaton 
11 out of 14, Anderson 10 out of 17. 
Referee—Daugherty. »-------
PLANS COMPLETED FOR 
IN. M. 0. J
At a meeting of the junior class 
final arrangements for the Prom were 
made. Everything is being done to 
make the J 02J Prom the best ever. 
The various committees reported on 
the work being done. Arrangements 
are being made for about a hundred 
couples. There are only forty mem­
bers of the Junior Class itself, so this 
accounts for the comparatively small 
number expected to attend the Prom. 
Faculty members invited are Presi­
dent Hamerschlag, Dean Breed, the 
heads of the various departments 
two class chaperones.
TRAN8IT8 AND LEVEL8 ALL 8UPPLIE8 FOR THE DRAFTING ROOM
Englneero’ Equipment, Instru­ment« of Preclnlon, Blue Print and Drown Print Papers and Cloth*.
B„ K. ELLIOTT CO.
126 8IXTH 8TREET
conceivable 
combination of all 
that’s good in con* 
Actions .is found in
Brown & Zortman 
Machine Co.
Union Arcade 
Pittsburgh Penn’a
TYPEWRITERS AND 
ADDING MACHINES 
All makes sold, rented and 
repaired; allowing rental to ap­
ply oil purchase.
Underwoods Our 
Specialty 
Written guarantee with each 
machine.
Victor and Fox agency.
FORT PITT 
TYPEWRITER CO.
428 FOURTH AVENUE 
Near Post Officc
Patronize The Tartan Advertisers.
VERY ENTHUSIASTIC
Much interest is being manifested 
every Tuesday and Thursday evenings 
over the Intra Mural basketball con­
tests. The winner will receive the 
John II. Leete trophy cup.
There are two leagues, the Ameri­
can and the National, three games be­
ing played each night by teams in the 
leagues. The winners of the leagues 
will compete for the championship.
The following games have been 
played:Jan. 8, 1920—Dorm. No. 2 loses to 
S. A. E. 28-12. D. E. O. loses to Tau 
Gamma Phi 22-8. D. U. loses to Sig­
ma Nu 12-2.Jan. 13, 1020—Xi Sigma Upsilon 
loses to Woodlawn 35-5. Phi Epsilon 
Pi loses to Theta Xi 21-16.
Jan. 15, 1020—Dorm. No. 4 loses 
to Ophclcum 32-20. Sigma Rho loses 
to Dorm No. 1 23-8. Dorm. No. 2 
loses to D. U. 22-10.
Jan. 20, 1920—Xi Sigma Upsilon 
loses to D. E. O. 44-4. S. A. E. loses 
to Sigma Nu 28-14. Tau Gamma Phi 
loses to Woodlawn 20-12.
Jan. 22, 1920—Dorm. No. (i loses to 
Opheleum 22-11. Dorm. No. 1 loses 
to Theta Xi 22-10. Dorm No. 4 loses 
to Kappa Sigma Rho.
Some of the scores cannot be locat­
ed and those who can supply the miss­
ing scores will do a favor by dropping 
them in the postoffice in care of t)ic 
Tartan.-------»-------
POPULAR ASSEMBLIES
The regular weekly meetings of the 
Student Assembly of the Division of 
Industries are Increasing in popu­
larity. Since the beginning of the 
new quarter several splendid pro­
grams have been presented and well 
received by a large and enthusiastic 
audience.
Last Wednesday W. S. Diggs ad­
dressed the meeting and gave some 
most interesting facts regarding some 
of the facts concerning illiteracy in 
the United States and its part in the 
Americanization program.' The talk 
was intermingled by traces of rare 
bits of humor. During the war Mr. 
Diggs was most active in the spread­
ing of United States propaganda on 
the various drives as head of the 
Four-Minute speakers in Allegheny 
county.
Tom Loomis was elected the In­
dustries member on the new Athletic 
Council by a large majority over the 
other nominees.
The Assembly was interested in 
hearing of the return of Ed Hayes to 
school.-------8-------
, UPPER-CLASSMEN 
UE WARNING TO PLEBES
Stringent measures are going to be 
taken with the M. M. Plebes unless 
they take a word of warning and 
change their ways. They seem to 
have forgotten that Plebe Regulation 
Rules were made to be kept and not 
to be broken, purposely or otherwise. 
Most of the memories of the Plebes 
Room to be of a very short span, ac­
cording to the Sophomores, for they 
are continually pleading “I forgot” 
for the absence of their arm bands. 
They seem to forget also the respect 
they owe upperclassmen and this fact 
has become apparent to Juniors and 
Seniors as well as to Sophomores. 
Owing to the great number of fresh­
men the Sophomores have had quite 
a hard time and have been rather in­
clined to let offenses slip by but things 
have been going too far now. The 
attitude not of a few Plebes but of 
the whole class must be changed and 
they must realize their obligations 
and live up to them if they are to be 
real Margaret Morrison girls.
NOTE—Articles found on the campus 
or in the buildings should be turned 
in at the Officc of the Dean of Men, 
Central Building, and lost articles 
should be inquired for at the same 
officc.
Found—Key: either a drawing room 
chemical laboratory key No. 
4A7191.
Found—On Friday, January 16, on 
floor of new restaurant, a valuable 
ladies’ set ring. Owner may obtain 
same by communicating with Mr. C, 
W. Sproull, Room 121, Science Build­
ing.Found—A note book with red covers 
found in basement hall of Industries 
Building January 21. Apply for same 
to Dean Tarbell.
Found—One key ring—no identifica­
tion mark other than Corbin Cabinet 
Lock Co., No. 26. Apply for same at 
Dean Tarbell's Office.
Lost—;An O.-N. E. fraternity pin, a 
jeweled skull and cross bones, on the 
campus or on Woodlawn Ave., be­
tween Margaret Morrison and Forbes 
St. Finder will please return to Miss 
Moore, Batron of Margaret Morrison.-------»-------“BETTY JUMEL” PACKS
LITTLE THEATER.
(Continued from page 1.) 
cerity. It is hard to play the use­
less dandy without being artificial. 
As Prue Morrison Miss Caroline Mer- 
ing made a lovely and appealing pic­
ture. She was very true to the type 
of gentle little country girl. Jack 
Oglesby was a thankless part but 
John Willard played it amusingly. His 
‘drunk’ scenes were funny but not 
overdone. Prince Jerome Bonaparte 
was an interesting character and as 
Mi\ Lubin played it a probably real­
istic picture of a prince at a picnic. 
His French accent was well camou­
flaged with speed and hysteria. Miss 
Dalzell was most picturesque in white 
wig and panniers, as were Mrs. Hazel 
and Miss Ziegenfelder whose looks be­
lied their ‘catty’ roles. Mr. Dean, Mr. 
Boyer, and Mr. Hertz played gossipy 
gallants. But, to tell the truth, their 
gossip was impeded by their diction. 
Mr. Church played old Squire Morri­
son with tremulo and a splendid make­
up, also sang songs behind scenes at 
the proper moment. Mr. Goodrich 
played the minster with sllenco and 
austerity and Mr. Collins took .Mi1 
Wilson’s placo as the butler.
The stage settings wore master­
pieces in all four acts, and deserve in­
dividual mention. The first with the 
fine old tapestry and the candle light, 
the second with the beautiful colonial 
door, shadowed by leaves, tho third 
with the white and mahogany stair­
case and the silhouettes, and the last 
with round fable and the casement 
window and the moonlight. All were 
works of art. The costumes were 
delicate in color but effective and 
pleasing as a series of time-mellowed 
pictures.
Mr. Osborne as director of the play 
should be given a paragraph to him 
self. His untiring energy and thor 
oughness in detail are especially to 
be commended. The general smooth 
ness and careful pictures throughout 
the play show his handling. The dif­
ficulties of making the play a “go” 
were enough to stump a Herculean 
producer. To Mr. Osborne’s perse­
vering labors and the splendid acting 
of Miss Beck with the cooperation of 
the rest of the cast is due the fact 
that the play somehow “got across”.----------D----------At a meeting of the Under-graduate 
Council at Penn on Monday it was 
decided to renew the request for sug­
gestions from students as to a suit­
able contest between Freshmen and 
Sophomores. While the contest must 
be practical it must avoid the mass 
formations prevalent in the discarded 
“Bowl Fight” and “Pants Rush.” One 
suggestion now before the Council 
plans a “Flour Fight” in which a 
number of Sophomores carry hidden 
bags of flour, which the Freshmen are 
to find and break within a certain 
time limit. If the Sophomores can 
show a given number of whole bags 
at f he end of the period, they win the 
fight.-------D-------ATHLETICS DISCUSSED BY
SCIENCE ASSEMBLY
(Continued from page 1.) 
ed, that is, student body, varsity elan, 
general graduate body, faculty, and 
one representative from the board of 
trustees. This body shall have com­
plete supervision of the conduct of all 
athletics, including appointment of 
graduate manager and coaches, adop­
tion of budget for the year, defining 
the duties of all persons engaged in 
strictly athletic work and establish­
ing eligibility regulations but except­
ing questions of scholastic standing.
Graduate Manager—In order to 
carry out the wishes of the athletic 
council, there shall be a graduate 
manager, who will be responsible 
to the council alone. His duties to 
be defined by a constitution adopted 
by the council. Tn addition to the 
specific duties assigned by the consti­
tution the type of graduate manager 
should be one who will encourage 
graduates and students to sell Car­
negie Tech on its merits to desirable 
students, not only athletic ability, but 
of scholastic attainments.
“Finances—There are four possible 
sources of income: Institute, Alumni 
subscriptions, student fees, gate re­
ceipts. A budget shall be prepared.. 
The estimated income from student 
fees shall be deducted from the 
total estimated cost of the season. 
The amount remaining shall be shared 
equally by the alumni and the Insti 
tution.
“Student Fees—That the student 
fees for athletics be designated sepa­
rately from school fees but collected 
by the Bursar and turned over to the 
graduate manager....
“Institute—The Institute to furnish 
proper and adequate facilities for the 
conduct of athletics and their main­
tenance, namely—gymnasium, hous­
ing, lockers, shower baths, athletic 
field, and grandstand accommoda 
tions. In addition to provide a cash 
contribution.
“Alumni Subscription—That a cam 
paign be instituted among the alumni 
to raise a fund for the support of the 
athletic program.”
Mr. Nichol also read the policy of 
the council, much of which is included 
in the above paragraphs. A few of 
the important points in the policy are 
as follows:
Termination of the schedules of 
school work at 4:00 to allow time for 
athletics and recreation.
To have Steffen back as football 
coach.
To have a campaign for a .$5.00 sub­
scription from each student to run 
athletics this season.
The formation of an athletic coun­
cil consisting of three students, three 
faculty, three varsity clan, two alumni 
which shall be responsible only to the 
trustees.
After Mr. Nichols’ talk Manager 
Yele announced the Washington and 
Jefferson and Allegheny basketball 
games.
Manager Dreux made the following 
announcement about baseball: The
call for candidates will be sometime 
in March, when indoor practice will 
begin. As there are not enough uni­
forms for all who will come out each 
candidate is asked to bring his own 
uniform. All those who stick with the 
team will receive a uniform.
WRIGLEYS
flavors (ike the 
pyramids of Egypt?
Because they are 
long-lasting.
And WRIGLEY’S is a beneficial
Belting Costs—and the G. T. M.
A study of plant efficiency makes clear 
the fact that a belt is really a machine 
part. Not only does the quality of the 
belting used determine the effectiveness 
of the drive, but the nature of the 
belt may have a very important action 
on the driving and driven machinery. 
A belt that has to be kept tight, for 
example, is liable to cause overheating 
of the engine bearings.
The economies a good belt can effect 
extend throughout the plant operation, 
and the first step in securing them is to 
make sure that the belt installed is 
specified scientifically to the duty re­
quired of it.
The Brooklyn Elevator <& Milling
Company improved its main drive 
and reduced its belting costs by in­
stalling a belt recommended on the 
basis of an expert analysis by the 
G. T. M.—Goodyear Technical Man.
BELTING • PACKING
An idler has been retired, and $667.54 
saved.
A 30-inch, 6-ply Goodyear Blue Streak
that cost $229.60 less in the first place 
than the belt they had been using has 
given economical service for 27 months 
now on a drive that wore out ordinary 
belts in about 18 months. So, besides 
the initial saving, the Company credits 
the Goodyear B1 je Streak with an oper­
ating saving of at least $437.94. More­
over, the Goodyear Blue Streak has 
caused no troubb and needed no re­
pairs, as against plenty of both on its 
short-lived preds cessor.
The relation of belting to factory effi­
ciency is treated in detail in the Good­
year Mechanical Goods Encyclopedia. 
Students and teachers of engineering 
are invited to write for a copy to the 
Mechanical Goods Department, The 
Goodyear Tire & Rubber Company, Akron, Ohio.
HOSE-VALVE
