The Tartan
Volume 82, Issue 4 Carnegie Mellon University September 22 ,1987
IINSIDE
FEATURES..........Page 13
Noah's Ark arrives in Pittsburgh; gear up 
for grad school conference
SPORTS....................Page 24
The Tartans are looking for a new home 
because of construction
photo by Andy Gillespie
Diskette Day at the Second Annual Academic Bowl apparently turned out to be a 
huge success from the expressions on these happy hackers' faces.
Campana Overrules CFP
*Announcement Forthcoming
Spring Semester 
Shifted One Week
By RUSS SELIGMAN 
t Tartan Editor-in-Chief
The spring semester will be shifted back one 
week this year, resulting in an extra week of 
winter break and a delay in graduation.
Maryann Moore, Director of Special Events, 
first proposed the idea to President Cyert. Her 
original intent was to change the date of gradu­
ation. Last year, graduation was switched 
from a Monday to the Sunday before it— 
Mother’s Day. At that time, the implications of
V having graduation on that day were not consid­
ered. According to Registrar Richard 
Rainsberger, many people who organized and 
set up graduation day ceremonies were not 
pleased with having to work on Mother’s Day. 
The same scenario was planned for this year.
Moore approached Cyert a few weeks ago, 
asking if graduation could be held one week 
later. To prevent seniors from having to re-
o main at school for an extra week, it was de­
cided that the only way to shift graduation was 
either to add an extra week to spring break, or 
to shift the entire spring semester, as well. 
They chose to shift the spring semester.
Cyert advised Moore to seek the opinion of 
other administrators, faculty, and students. On 
September 14, Moore addressed a memo to 
Cyert, citing meetings with Provost Angel
11 Jordan, the Deans’ Council, and Student Sen­
ate. Moore reported that “Although there was 
lengthy discussion and questions were raised, 
all have approved the proposal...”
Bob Swendson, Faculty Senate chair-per- 
son, presented the idea to the executive coun­
cil of Faculty Senate and conducted random 
polls among faculty, staff, and students. Ac­
cording to the memo to Cyert, the results were
* favorable.
The schedule change will be officially an­
nounced by the administration later this week.
The implications of the shift extend beyond 
just graduation. The results will first be felt 
during winter break. Because the semester will 
be pushed back one week, there will be an 
extra week added to winter break. Students 
will be required back at Camegie Mellon for
o enrollment on Monday, January 11 instead of 
January 4; classes will begin on Tuesday, 
January 12, on a Monday schedule.
In order to prevent a “domino effect” from 
continued on page 5
By NATALIE CAPONE
Tartan Staffer iter
At its September 15 meeting, the Council of 
Fraternal Presidents (CFP) voted 11 to 2, with 
one abstention, to restrict both Delta Upsilon 
and Sigma Nu from having open parties— 
meaning that no one other than brothers, 
pledges, little sisters, and alumni may at­
tend— from September 27 to October 31. The 
brothers would also have to sweep the buggy 
course during the Spring semester. Failure to 
comply with these penalties would result in an 
automatic $10,000 fine.
The punishment came as a result of the frater­
nities’ handing out bids—formal invitations to 
become a member of that fraternity—before 
the official start of Rush, which was Septem­
ber 14.
Rush, which is completely dry, was delayed 
until the fourth week of school because, as 
Greek Advisor Ron Campana explained, “We 
wanted to avoid non-compliance [with Dry 
Rush] as much as possible. If you tell students 
that there are only dry parties from when they 
come back till the end of September, there’s 
going to be non-compliance. There’s a need 
for social gatherings to get it out of their 
systems, then in a sober manner have member­
ship recruitment.”
During the weeks prior to Rush, Campana 
expected “parties to be closed,” meaning thai
the only people in attendance would be mem­
bers and guests, and “the guest list would not 
be the freshman list.” In reality, Campana 
conceded, “Some houses used it as a wet pre- 
rush. The ‘pre-rush’ label is a loophole,” he 
said. “I was confident that the first weeks 
would be conducted in a non-Rush manner.” 
“We gave out bids one week before Rush 
started,” said Doug Carey, Rush chairman of 
DU. “There were no written rules that said we 
couldn’t, and I asked Ron Campana in passing 
when were we allowed to give out bids, and he 
said ‘at any time during the year.’ “ In light of 
the CFP ruling, Carey said that Campana gave 
him the okay “in passing and must’ve been 
talking off the top of his head. He didn’t 
realize what he was saying, I guess.”
“There was some miscommunication,” said 
Campana, in reference to Carey’s comments. 
“But other houses didn’t seem to be confused. 
I felt confident that I had explained it to Doug; 
there was no confusion in my mind. If I misled 
them, it’s unfortunate, however I don’t think 
that I did.”
“Supposedly there’s an agreement at the 
CFP that no bids be given before Rush, but we 
had no knowledge of this,” said Sigma Nu 
Rush chairman Grant Hauber. “I went to Ron 
Campana earlier this year and asked for the 
Rush rules. He gave me the Fraternity Hand-
continued on page 6
Birne. Jenkins Resign
Chemistry Dept. 
Accounts Audited
By KARL BARNHART
Tartan lume Editor
On Friday, September 4, Chemistry Depart­
ment Head. Robert Birge. and his Department 
Administrator, Nancy Jenkins, were sus­
pended after outside bank accounts associated 
with the Department of Chemistry were dis­
covered. Both Birge and Jenkins have since 
resigned their positions.
“A University auditor, an internal auditor, is 
examining some of the accounts in the Chem­
istry Department and associated with the 
Chemistry Department,” said Mellon College 
of Science Dean Robert Sekerka. Sekerka re­
fused to specify the number of accounts under 
investigation.
“It was discovered, I would say, through 
serendipity and later by hunting around that 
there existed some outside bank accounts asso­
ciated with the Department of Chemistry. It is 
against University rules to do such a thing, and 
once it was discovered such an account existed, 
naturally questions had to be asked.”continued 
Sekerka.
An outside bank account, as defined by 
Sekerka, is one “outside the University ac­
counting system. Under the University ac­
counting system, we all see the accounts and 
see exactly what is happening. Once an account
“It would be unfair to tell you 
that this is not a serious thing, 
we consider this a serious 
breach of the working relation­
ship.”
—Dean Robert Sekerka
is set up outside that system, regardless of how 
honest the transactions in it may have been or 
whatever the purpose may have been, we can’t 
see it: we have no vision of it.”
As Department Head and Administrator, 
Birge and Jenkins are responsible for the ac­
counts. “Both Bob Birge and Nancy Jenkins, 
who were responsible for the finances of the 
Department of Chemistry at the time, are natu­
rally responsible for that. We consider this a
continued on page 5
photo by Glenn Schuster
Severe thunderstorms Thursday causedflooding at the intersection of Forbes and Mar­
garet Morrison. After peaking at four ft, the water is about three ft in this picture.
UDS Worker Struck by Pitt Student
By KEI KURITA
Tartan Staffer iter
Last Thursday at 9:20 pm, a UDS worker 
was hit by a car while attempting to cross 
Forbes Avenue near Morewood Avenue.
The pedestrian, Gerald L. Grant, 40, was on 
the south side of Forbes and attempting to 
cross in a north-east direction. The car, driven 
by Adel Mahmood Shukralla, was travelling 
eastbound and changing from the left lane to 
the turning lane when they collided.
Witnesses say that Grant was jaywalking 
when the light for Forbes eastbound just 
turned green. Shukralla stated that he hit the 
pedestrian when he came out from between 
two cars. Grant hit the hood of the convertible 
and was tossed up to the windshield where he 
hit his left arm and fell on to the street face 
down.
Grant’s injuries included multiple fractures 
on his lower and upper arm, lacerations on his 
head and eyebrows, and a sprained right ankle. 
He was conscious the whole time. The 
vehicle’s damage included a smashed wind­
shield.
Responding to the accident were CMU secu­
rity officers, three Pittsburgh police, and Pitts­
burgh medics. Grant was transported to Pres­
byterian University Hospital.
The driver was a Pitt student and was the only 
person in the car. He did not receive any 
criminal charges.
The victim was found 85 feet west of the 
comer of Morewood and Forbes. Police offi­
cers observed no adverse conditions, but the 
roadway was wet. There is a 25 mph speed limit 
on Forbes; the speed of the vehicle is not 
known.

---------------------------------------------------

Page 2—The Tartan—September 22,1987
/MTU«i aik»! Wiwr) »«
in«« »V*» fN\\w.i/ MW «ir»
Reagan Announces 
Agreement on Treaty
WASHINGTON — President Reagan an­
nounced Friday that the United States and 
Soviet Union had an “agreement in principle” 
to ban all intermediate-range nuclear missiles 
in the world. The announcement came after 
intense negotiations by Soviet Foreign Minis­
ter Eduard A. Shevardnadze and Secretary of 
State George P. Shultz.
Shevardnadze extended his visit to the 
United States to iron out the remaining ob­
stacles to the treaty. Speculation that an agree­
ment was near increased when Shultz and 
Shevardnadze sneaked out of the State Depart­
ment to have a private meeting with Reagan 
late Thursday night.
The two sides had announced Thursday af­
ternoon that they were beginning three-stage 
negotiations on nuclear testing. These talks 
would settle verification problems with two 
treaties signed in the 1970s. Their ratification 
has not been approved by the Senate.
The superpowers will now begin final draft­
ing of the treaty to eliminate the intermediate- 
range weapons and will arrange for a summit, 
the first in the United States since 1973.
Many commentators have been critical of the 
proposed accord because it will only eliminate 
four percent of the nuclear arsenal.
The Soviets will withdraw 462 missiles 
aimed at Europe and 221 pointed at Japan and 
China. The U.S. will scrap 332 rockets in 
Europe.
Soviets Apologize for 
Shooting of Soldier
WASHINGTON — Soviet Foreign Minister 
Eduard Shevardnadze apologized Friday for 
the shooting of an American serviceman by 
Soviet soldiers in East Germany.
A spokesman at the Pentagon said the De­
partment of Defense would insist on a fuller 
explanation of the “unprovoked” attack.
Soviet military personnel had opened fire 
Thursday after confronting a vehicle carrying 
two U.S. servicemen attached to a military 
liaison office in East Germany.
The Soviets insist that their soldiers fired 
only warning shots at the Americans. The 
United States maintains that the soldiers were 
outside of any restricted area, had been fired 
upon from behind, and had done nothing to 
violate the terms of the 1947 agreement on 
liaison missions.
Judge Bork Finishes 
Five Days of Hearings
WASHINGTON — Judge Robert H. Bork 
ended five days of testimony Saturday before 
the Senate Judiciary Committee. The hearings 
on his nomination to the Supreme Court will 
continue this week with various witnesses tes­
tifying for and against Bork.
Scheduled witnesses include former Penn­
sylvania Gov Dick Thornburgh, former Texas 
Congresswoman Barbara Jordan, and con­
sumer advocate Ralph Nader.
Bork testified that he had no political agenda 
to impose on the court. He stressed that he had 
a moderate stand and would be “disgraced by 
history” if he abandoned it.
Sen. Edward M. Kennedy, D-Mass., accused 
the judge of changing his views. “Mr. Bork’s 
balloon has been rapidly losing altitude in the 
Senate. He’s been rapidly jettisoning the bag­
gage of a lifetime,” said Kennedy.
The judge was questioned extensively on his 
decisions concerning women’s rights, minori­
ties, and Constitutional law.
Pres. Candidate Biden 
Admits to Plagiarism
WASHINGTON — Presidential candidate 
Sen. Joseph Biden took time away from chair­
ing the hearings on Judge Bork’s confirmation 
to answer charges of plagiarism.
Biden admitted to lifting five pages from a 
law article for a brief he wrote while a fresh­
man law student at Syracuse. “I did something 
stupid 23 years ago,” said Biden.
Biden also admitted using unattributed quo­
tations from other politicians in his speeches.
In other campaign trail news:
Last weekend Virginia-based TV evangelist 
Pat Robertson surprised analysts by beating 
both Vice President George Bush and Minor­
ity Leader Robert Dole in a straw poll of 
Iowans. Robertson announced that he will 
announce his candidacy next month.
Dole made an appearance at the Bork hear­
ings, joining former President Ford in intro­
ducing Bork to the Senate Judiciary Commit­
tee. Presidential candidate Sen. Paul Simon is 
also on the committee. Both Biden and Simon 
have announced that they will vote against 
Bork’s confirmation.
Gov. Casey Criticized 
After Philly Speech ¦»
PHILADELPHIA — Pennsylvania Gov. 
Casey addressed the General Assembly at 
Independence Hall Friday as part of the 
Constitution’s bicentennial. He attracted criîr-^ 
cism for using the celebration to urge the * 
lawmakers to enact a package of environ­
mental bills.
Casey said if the framers could write th^ 
Constitution in four months, the General As­
sembly should be able to do the same with his 
environmental agenda. The governor has 
placed environmental concerns second only to 
job creation in importance in his administra­
tion.
At the joint session of the House and Senate, 
he called for the enactment of mandatory recy­
cling laws, the appropriation of $650 millio^ 
to upgrade water and sewage systems, and the 
creation of a state “Superfund” to pay for 
cleaning waste sites.
“It just wasn’t the right place to do this,” said 
Senate President Pro Tempore Robert Jube- 
lirer. Casey defended his right to make the 
speech, calling it a “sad day” when the gover­
nor “can’t address the Legislature on an issue 
of substance.”
of the Associated Press
.............................................................—.....................- m..—..............................i......
m
T.®.©.m
TL®„©„i?
§?
¥.©„©»m
To©,©»m
IT.®.©.m
?„©,©.m
m
TECHNICAL OPPORTUNITIES CONFERENCE
Thursday, October 1,1987 
10:00 - 4:00 Skibo Ballroom and Wherrett Room
A conference where students from all academic 
disciplines are invited to come and talk freely and 
informally with company representatives.
The Aerospace Corporation * Air Products and Chemicals 
Alcoa * Armco * AT&T * ATSDR * Bell Communications 
Research * BBN Laboratories * Calgon * Oracle 
Control Data * Digital Equipment * Dow Chemical * LTV 
Dupont * Eastman Kodak Gencorp * General Electric * IBM 
General Motors * Goodyear Tire and Rubber * Hewlett Packard 
Honeywell * Johns Hopkins-Applied Physics Lab * Lawence 
Livermore * Lockheed Missiles & Space * Martin Marietta 
McDonnell Aircraft * Merck & Co. * Morgan Guaranty Trust Co. 
Microsoft * National Semiconductor * Sanders Associates 
O’Connor and Associates * Olin Chemicals * Singer-Kearfott 
Perkin Elmer * Procter and Gamble * R.R. Donnelley & Sons Co. 
NCR * Texas Instruments * Unisys * United Technologies 
U.S. Navy * U.S. Environmental Protection Agency * Vista 
Chemical * Westinghouse R&D * Wheeling Pittsburgh Steel
Sponsored by the student sections of S.W.E. and I.E.E.E.

---------------------------------------------------

September 22,1987—The Tartan—Page 3
c )Software Engineering Institute  
An Interview With The Director
Druffel Claims SEI Does 
No Classified Research
An Interview With a Protester
Pressler Claims SEI is 
Promoting The Arms Race
By CHRIS YOUNG
82,I2s 4I2CCu, aIu, 
Ask almost any CMU student what they’ve 
^ard about the SEI and they’ll give you a 
bewildered “huh?” But, if you happen to run 
into a certain group of protesters, you may get 
an answer like “They’re the Institute funded 
-fry the Department of Defense/War that is 
developing Star Wars.”
SEI stands for the Software Engineering 
Institute. It’s located next to the Mellon Insti­
tute in a glass building that is still under con­
struction. Established by Carnegie Mellon 
University in 1984, the Institute is currently on
I “Saying that the SEI is devel­
oping Star Wars is like saying 
that the department of Fine 
Arts is actively involved in 
Anti-Nicaraguan Warfare.” 
—Larry Druffel
*a five year contract sponsored by the Depart­
ment of Defense. ‘The charter of the SEI," as 
SEI Director Larry E. Druffel phrases it, “is to 
provide leadership in the transition of new 
software engineering technology into prac­
tice.”
What does this mean? According to Larry 
Druffel, in the current state of software engi­
neering, there are several global problems 
'which affect our country’s defense (among 
other things such as economy). For instance, in 
most industrial settings it takes from fifteen to 
twenty years for a scientific concept to be 
implemented as a machine, program, tool, etc. 
This time lag is crucial and costly when one is 
dealing with complex, expensive, or lifesav- 
ing technology. One of the SEI’s goals is to 
reduce this time lag.
o Their other g jals include the development of 
a standard graduate curriculum in Software 
Engineering (one has already been initiated at 
Wichita State University), and the identifica­
tion and transition of modem software engi­
neering techniques to the DoD contracting 
community using the computer language Ada. 
Pilot projects include the development of 
reusable software, and the development of 
^several information systems designed for use 
in flight simulation, radar and flight control. 
Although all projects are done at the request of 
the DoD, Druffel stated the SEI is not respon­
sible for any research in SDI or “Star Wars”.
While rumors have been propagated about 
Star Wars Defense and other secretly classi­
fied projects occurring at the SEI, Druffel
maintains that all projects are unclassified. He 
says, “People who are distributing fliers about 
supposed Star Wars research should read the 
published reports of research done here. It’s all 
open to the public.” Druffel also contends that 
the reason people are propagating the Star 
Wars rumor is because they know that more 
people are opposed to Star Wars than are 
opposed to general defense. He claims that by 
spreading the Star Wars rumor, they can get 
more people on their side.
Druffel, however takes no shame in support­
ing defense projects. According to him, “there 
are people who would like to impose their 
views on what the SEI does. The student body 
has a right to expect that our work is open. I 
don’t see why they think they should have 
control over what we do. No proposal for 
research is ever based on the student’s opin­
ion, but instead on the department chairman’s. 
Saying that the SEI is developing Star Wars is 
like saying that the department of Fine Arts is 
actively involved in anti-Nicaraguan War­
fare.”
Of the five programs listed in the “Over­
view” (a description of SEI’s projects which 
are Ada-Based Software Engineering, Educa­
tion, Pilot Projects, Software Process, and 
Technology Transition), the Graduate Cur­
riculum Project (under Education) focuses on 
documenting, identifying, and organizing the 
body of knowledge that can be taught in gradu­
ate level software engineering programs. 
Because potential students of software engi­
neering are a large and diverse group, the SEI 
is producing what it calls “curriculum mod­
ules”. Each module teaches a highly specific 
course and is composed of less material than a 
normal university course. The module is actu­
ally a document with an annotated outline and 
bibliography along with other information of 
use to instructors. Courses and degree pro­
grams can be constructed from the modules.
When CMU contracted with the DoD in 
1984 to build the SEI, CMU was given 103 
million dollars to fund SEI’s research. “Other 
departments at CMU receive over three times 
this much money from the Department of 
Defense," says Druffel. This type of funding is 
not uncommon among major universities. 
Still, the SEI itself has a free hand in which 
projects will be investigated. They are not 
given specific instructions to perform specific 
projects for the DoD. Instead, the SEI sees its 
main goal as improving the state of the art in 
Software Engineering. It’s not strange that the 
DoD is the major consumer of high tech engi­
neered software. But the applications of soft­
ware engineering are very broad.
The SEI teaches no classes and gives no 
degrees, although employing CMU faculty.
By JOSH RUBEN
82,I2s 4I2CCm,aIu, 
The Software Engineering Institute (SEI) 
has come under more fire as Carnegie Mellon 
Philosophy Professor, Jonathan Pressler be­
gan distributing a series of anti-SEI leaflets 
earlier this month in an effort to “provide a 
forum for discussion.”
Since the leaflet distribution began, Pressler 
said that three people who have also been 
distributing the flyers have been “threatened 
with arrest” by Campus Police. Pressler claims 
that this is due to an “unwritten policy” of prior
The SEI is being used by the 
Department of Defense to 
“promote the arms race.” 
—Jonathan Pressler
consent held by the administration. This pol­
icy states that any one wishing to protest an 
issue must get administration permission be­
fore such a protest can begin. The administra­
tion says that this policy ensures that all points 
of view in a particular debate will be able to be 
heard.
“This policy bothers me,” said Pressler. He 
began distributing the leaflets without getting 
the school’s prior consent because “it was a 
matter of principle.” Pressler has since re- 
ceived~consent fiem Dean of Student Affairs, 
Brad Walter, who is the administration’s 
spokesman of this policy.
In the leaflets, Pressler echoes the claims 
made by other opponents of SLI saying that the 
facility is being used by the Department of 
Defense (DoD) to “promote the arms race.” 
The complaint stems from the fact that the 
DoD is one of the largest financial contributors 
to SEI. Also, in an informational packet dis­
tributed by SEI, one of the primary goals of the 
institute is to help develop and consult projects 
involving Mission Critical Computer Re­
sources (MCCR). According to Pressler, 
MCCR systems are a main part of the Reagan 
Administration’s Strategic Defence Initiative 
(SDI).
In an interview, Pressler cited several prob­
lems both with SEI and CMU's involvement 
with SEI. In terms of SEI, Pressler has a 
problem with “who actually has control over 
[SEI's] research”. He cited that in the SEI 
contract signed with the DoD, 20 percent of all 
of SEI’s projects will come from a DoD list. 
Based on this, Pressler feels that the DoD has 
control over the institute.
In addition, Pressler sees no "internal ethical 
review process” to determine the moral issues 
of certain research projects. “Hospitals have 
such processes to deal with issues of transplan­
tation and research...SEI is leaving these 
morality decisions up to the scientists and 
researchers (actually doing the work at the 
institute J.”
The problem with this, Pressler said, is that 
researchers may ignore complex moral issues 
if they get in the way of the work itself. For 
example, German scientists perfected the V-2 
rocket which was both a milestone in scientific 
achievement and a weapon that killed thou­
sands.
Pressler’s main problem with CMU's in­
volvement with SEI is that “the administration 
has not been forthright and consistent in their 
statements [regarding SEI].” Pressler cited a 
statement made by President Richard Cyert in 
which Cyert said that SEI will not partake in
any classified research. Then, according to 
Pressler, the school signed a contract giving 
the DoD the ability to conduct classified re­
search. Pressler added that SEI Director, 
Larry Druffle, made the statements that (a) no 
SDI research will be performed, but (b) infor­
mation derived at SEI will be used for this 
research.
In addition to the leaflet campaign, a peace 
vigil is being organized by Vincent Scotti 
Eirene of Duncan and Porter House. Eirene 
says that the goal of the vigil is to promote “the 
spirituality of peacemaking.” He commented 
that he “sees nothing good” coming out of SEI 
and that it simply a “military presence in the 
city.” Eirene added that since the vigil began 
last week, no one has approached them with 
diametrically opposed views. This is acontrast 
from last year’s Students Against Apartheid 
shanty which caused a lot of debate and discus­
sion throughout the campus community.
photo by hnc Leuueue
Shown above is the newly completed SEI building on Fith Avenue.

---------------------------------------------------

;
‘At J.P Morgan, systems professionals are part business person, theoretician, and technician'.*
As a leading global financial institution, J.E Morgan 
is among the most sophisticated users of the most 
advanced information and communications 
systems. And as a firm at the forefront of a rapidly 
changing industry, we are continuously involved 
in the design and implementation of innovative 
systems for complex worldwide financial applica­
tions. If your goal is a career in systems, J.E Morgan 
has rewarding opportunities to offer both techni­
cal and non-technical majors. They begin with 
comprehensive classroom and on-the-job instruc­
tion and lead to a choice of 
options ranging from technical 
specializations to management.
Contact Donna Seymour,
J.E Morgan & Co. Incorporated,23 Wall Street, N.Y., NY 10015.
Hard work, creative thinking, listening, and the 
intelligence to challenge are all important in a career 
at J.P Morgan.
JPMorgan

---------------------------------------------------

September 22,1987—The Tartan—Page 5
Semester Will Begin January 11
continued form page 1
causing a perpetual one-week shift every year, 
a week must be removed from the calendar to 
counter the one added. Rainsberger expects 
the summer break of 1989 to be cut short by 
one week.
Other schedule changes include the shifting 
«of mid-semester break from February 22 to 
February 29, and spring break from March 21 - 
25 to March 28- April 1. The first reading day 
was originally scheduled for April 26, with 
final exams slated for April 27-29 and May 2- 
4. The new calendar calls for reading days on 
May 2 and May 4, with final exams running on 
May 3, May 5-6, and May 9-11. Graduation 
will takeplace on Sunday, May 15, instead of 
<* May 8. The first summer session will begin on 
May 16.
Student Government President Andy Ro- 
bitshek asked that the dates for Spring Carni­
val not be changed. In case some part of 
Carnival cannot be carried out as planned, says 
Robitshek, there will still be time to resched­
ule it.
According to Rainsberger, next fall’s sched-
* ule has not been finalized. Although he ex­
pects the length of the summer vacation not to 
change, it will start and possibly end a week 
later than usual, with fall 1988 enrollment 
tentatively falling on Monday, August 29, and 
classes beginning on August 30.
Although most students will be glad to have 
an extra week of vacation, there are some who 
will be inconvenienced. Most problems stem 
from the change being announced too close to 
the end of the semester. Says Chemistry so­
phomore Dan Stodolsky, “Carnegie Mellon’s 
year ended before most of the other schools’, 
and we had an advantage in the summer job 
market. Now that advantage is gone. I had 
summer job commitments that now I won’t be 
able to fulfill.”
Another potential hassle exists for students 
who have already made their December travel 
reservations. Recently, airlines instituted a 
“no-change” policy on all flights. This re­
quires that once a passenger reserves a ticket, 
he must pay for it within 24 hours, and no 
changes are allowed. Students who have pur­
chased their tickets expecting to return to 
Carnegie Mellon on January 3 will not have an 
easy time changing them to J anuary 10. If they 
arrive on January 3, though, they will find 
school dorms not yet ready for occupancy.
According to Doris Formica of World-Wise 
Travel Service, most airlines “couldn’t care 
less” about students whose schedules are 
suddenly changed. USAir, however, will al­
low a student to trade a ticket up to a more 
expensive fare, provided it is done more than 
one month before the flight. Formica expects 
this will cost most students an extra $10-$20.
Fire Inspection Reveals 
Many Fraternity Violations
By KARL BARNHART
82,I2s lume rnaIg,
Due in part to a new inspection program 
instituted September 1, fire marshalls from the 
City of Pittsburgh inspected fraternity houses 
every day from September 11 to 14. No cita­
tions were issued but several fraternities were 
warned of numerous violations.
SAE was hit particularly hard. According to 
Kerry Skolkin, President of SAE, their 
“Dante’s Inferno” volcano attracted the first 
inspector Friday. The brothers had erected a
“Probably within two weeks 
there will be a general fire in­
spection...” 
—Capt. John Bauer
two story volcano in front of their house for 
their party on Saturday. The inspector, saying 
the brothers “lit explosives from the volcano in 
A the past,” threatened to fine the fraternity 
$1,000 per fraternity brother if it exploded. 
Still not satisfied, the inspector came back 
Saturday and tried to light the structure; it did 
not light.
Then, Sunday night after a false alarm at 
Pika, Skolkin claimed he was warned the in­
spector would be back Monday. On Monday 
morning, the inspector came back and warned 
v SAE that their overflowing dumpsters could 
cost them $1,000 apiece if they weren’t emp­
tied. Physical Plant responded and worked 
overtime to clean it up.
' Over the summer, though, SAE was fined 
$2,000 plus $47 court costs for fire violations. 
“SAE had a fire started in the girl’s bathroom 
in a garbage can, smoke alarm went off, they 
[the fire department] came in, and a student 
had painted his room and had furniture out in 
the hall, and they cited the fraternity on two 
citations...for a blocked egress.
“And because the University owned the 
building, they fined the University $ 1,000 plus 
$23.50 in court costs for each citation. Both the 
University and the fraternity are trying to 
appeal; they have a hearing set for late Septem­
ber in the Magistrate’s office,” said Greek
Advisor, Ron Campana.
The recent wave of inspections has caused 
concern in the Greek community. Keith 
Stopen, President of Pi Lamdba Phi, said, 
“They seem to be harassing us.” His house was 
inspected Sunday and Monday. On Sunday, Pi 
Lam was warned they could be fined $ 1,000 
because their dumpster was too full.
Other houses also got warnings: Phi Kappa 
Theta’s president, A1 Margarella, said they 
were warned to clean up wood outside Sunday 
night; Fred Deleon, President of IFC and a 
Pika brother, said Pi Kappa Alpha was warned 
to clean their hallways Sunday; DTD Presi­
dent, Brian Albrecht, stated his house was 
given a written warning of a $1,000 fine Sun­
day at 10 pm for a combination of com­
bustibles; and Delta Upsilon President, Eric 
Dusenbury, said his house was inspected both 
Sunday and Monday—they were warned to 
clean up the hallways and store paint in metal 
closets.
A few houses weren’t inspected. ATO, Beta, 
KDR, Theta Xi, Kappa Sigma, and Sigma Nu 
presidents reported no “official” inspections.
Captain John Bauer, Code Enforcement, said 
the inspections are city wide, and CMU is not 
being singled out. He said that he had received 
calls Friday, Saturday, and Sunday from his 
battalion chiefs regarding the structures built 
by CMU fraternities that labeled the structures 
a “fairly dangerous situation.” His officers, 
following the assumption that the fraternities 
were going to bum down the structures, rec­
ommended they be tom down. In addition to 
being, according to Bauer, fire hazards, he 
claimed the fraternities required permits for 
their construction.
When asked if the inspectors would be back, 
Bauer said, “Probably within two weeks there 
will be a general fire inspection that includes 
electrical systems and structural integrity.”
Director of Housing, Tony Martin, foresees 
no change in the University/fraternity rela­
tionship. “The Housing Office’s responsibil­
ity is a business relationship. In the sense of 
being University representatives, we own the 
houses, but we let this group of students 
manage the houses—we rent them the houses 
under certain terms, but the responsibility is 
the students'.”
Administrators Suspended 
When Accounts Discovered
continued from page 1
serious breach of the working relationship 
between these individuals and the admini­
stration,” said Sekerka.
Birge and Jenkins were suspended the 
same day the accounts were discovered: 
September 4. Sekerka stressed they were 
suspended from only their administrative 
responsibilities. “We suspended them, 
with pay, while this matter was being 
looked into. We did not suspend Dr. Birge 
as a faculty member of Carnegie Mellon 
University as distinct from his administra­
tive responsibilities as department head— 
those are two separate and distinct appoint­
ments. His position as a faculty member is 
something that is through the promotion 
and tenure process and faculty organiza­
tion; he is a professor of chemistry with 
indefinite tenure. His administrative posi­
tion is something that formally is up to me 
to decide.”
Since their suspensions, Jenkins has're- 
signed her position at the University and 
Birge has resigned his administrative posi­
tion. Birge will remain as tenured faculty.
Sekerka did not rule out the possibility of 
legal action. “This audit will continue until 
we are all happy with figuring out exactly 
what went on. If no further action is neces­
sary, no further action is necessary; if fur­
ther action is necessary, it will take place in 
due course. But I don’t want to speculate. 
The last thing in the world any of us ought 
to do is speculate idly on this. It’s not a 
simple-minded thing where you just go in 
and open a couple of records and it’s obvi­
ous.”
Birge has only been withCMU sinceJuly, 
1984. Before that, he was at the University 
of California at Riverside. In an interview 
published in the October 9, 1984, Tartan, 
Birge’s goals included moving the gradu­
ate Chemistry program back into the top 20 
and strengthening the department’s in­
volvement in organic chemistry and mo­
lecular spectroscopy.
photo by Olve Peerson
Former Chem. Dept. Head Robert Birge
After Birge’s suspension, Sekerka as­
sumed the role of acting department head. 
“There really was no head of Chemistry 
over the Labor Day weekend. 1 named 
myself acting head as of the first day back 
to work, 1 guess it was Tuesday, after 
Labor Day. I just stepped in to straighten 
up the administrative functions.
“Over the course of the next couple of 
weeks I will be talking individually to each 
of the faculty, getting their views on where 
we go from here, and I hope by the end of 
the month I will be able to name an acting 
head other than myself to search for a new 
head,” stated Sekerka.
Sekerka would not estimate how long the 
audit would take. “Look, I’m not an audi­
tor; I can’t say. I just know if you’re trying 
to have any type of due process in anything 
as complicated as an accounting system, 
these things take a long time.”
Vice President for Business Affairs, Fred 
Rogers, would not comment, only con­
firming there was indeed an audit of certain 
chemistry funds.
CFA Tries Again to Find 
New Art Department Head
By ERIC W. LEULIETTE
82,I2s ieeaeI2sI lume rnaIg, 
After failing in a search last year, the College 
of Fine Arts will try again to find a new head 
for its Department of Art.
The search was started last year when De­
partment Head Orville M. Winsand indicated 
that he was ready to retire and “start chapter 
two” of his life. Winsand agreed to stay on 
through this academic year after both finalists 
for the job pulled out of the competition.
“Somehow we couldn’t get them,” com­
mented Dean of the College of Fine Arts 
Akram Midani. He declined to elaborate on 
the reasons behind the candidates’ withdrawal 
other than to say they were “personal”.
He refused to give the names of the finalists, 
saying “you don’t talk about people you 
couldn't get; you should concentrate on the 
people you can get.”
Madini said last year’s search started with a 
list of 60 names which were narrowed to about 
25. Four applicants came to CMU for a variety 
of interviews.
Both Winsand and Midani feel that the pros­
pects for getting a replacement in the search 
are better this year. Winsand said that Tuesday
morning he had received phone calls from 
Kansas and New Jersey inquiring about the 
position.
One art student speculated that the finalists 
pulled out because of “a lot of staff conflicts” 
and problems with one professor getting ten­
ure last year.
Madini has written to deans across the coun­
try about the job. The deadline for applications 
is October 31. He hopes to invite some appli­
cants to campus in November or December. 
The new head would begin his job July 1,
1988.
The University offers to ppy for the new 
head's moving costs for both his residence and 
studio. CMU also offers to provide the head 
with studio space.
Winsand is eagerly anticipating his retire­
ment. He is scheduled to show his walnut 
sculpture at the Hewlett Gallery in March,
1989. He contrasts this work to his current 
post, where he says he is “sculpting paper."
He has been nominated to be chairman of 
NACA, a national accreditation association. If 
appointed, his duties would begin October 19.
Winsand has been at CMU since 1961 and 
has been department head for 16 years.

---------------------------------------------------

Page 6—The Tartan—September 22,1987
Sigma Nu, DU Penalized for Passing Out Bids Early *
continued from page 1
book,” which includes one page of written 
Rush rules. There is no mention of when bids 
may be given in the booklet. “Everything 
seems to be a verbal agreement. There are no 
formal written guidelines to go on, we w ent by 
the Sigma Nu National Handbook, which says 
that ‘Rush is twelve months a year." Accord­
ing to it, we can give out bids or form a pledge 
class at any time. Rush doesn’t stop on Sep­
tember 25—it’s a year-round thing.”
“If Rush isn't giving out bids, what is it?” 
asked Steve Stone, who oversees Rush for the 
CFP. “No one else gave out bids. It’s implied, 
knowing what Rush is. We said it at the meet­
ings—no bids.”
Fraternity members of other houses obtained 
two actual bids, one from DU and the other 
from Sigma Nu, that were given out before 
September 14, and gave them to the CFP 
Executive Board, according to Campana. 
They were then given to Campana who said 
that he “felt membership bidding was a matter 
for the CFP. I feel some decisions should be 
left up to the students; I like to inflict a level of
Cyert Appoints 
Corbett 
Ombudsman
By LARA KOVACIC
82,I2s 4I2CCMa,aIu, 
President Richard Cyert’s appointee 
as Student Ombudsman, Dan Corbett, 
sees himself as “a student advocate for 
student concerns.” Cyert created the 
experimental position “to make it eas­
ier for students to get complaints taken 
care of.”
The fundamental purpose of ombuds­
man is to give the “powerless” student 
an outlet for his complaints. Both 
Corbett and Cyert stress the position 
was founded to deal with “any student 
problems.” “Every problem,” Corbett 
assured, “will either be solved or at 
least investigated.”
Corbett has several options for re­
solving student complaints. He plans 
on attending to problems by “doing 
what each problem demands.” For 
example, he will inform appropriate or­
ganizations, such as student senate or 
housing. To resolve frequently raised 
problems, he will form special com­
mittees and meet with Cyert monthly. 
Corbett does not believe he will be able 
to solve every problem, but his goal is 
that “every student in the University 
feels satisfied or in the very least has 
had their complaints fairly listened to."
Corbett, a second year SUPA gradu­
ate student, plans to designate twenty 
hours weekly for student ombudsman.
He does not yet have an office but he 
can be reached at DC13@TE, and is 
“open for any appointments I can 
make.” Corbett will advertise his of­
fice and hours in the Tartan as soon as - 
he is able.
As an undergraduate in Policy and 
Management here at Carnegie Mellon, 
Corbett was both a resident assistant 
and head resident at Morewood Gar­
dens. He served on the Quality of Life 
Task Force in a sub-committee of stu­
dent services. In addition, Corbett was 
a member of the President’s Student 
Advisory Committee as the representa­
tive of residence life. Corbett will be a 
silent member on the advisory commit­
tee now as student ombudsman. He is 
currently a second year SUPA graduate 
student in Public Management and Pol­
icy.
autonomy. I asked for a referendum from all 
of the houses on what the proper punishment 
should be. after the facts were all laid out.
“It was a unanimous consensus at the CFP 
meeting that DU and Sigma Nu had some 
punishment forthcoming,” said Campana. 
“Under the circumstances, they felt that DU 
had just heard what they wanted to hear.” 
Sigma Nu had not asked Campana about bid­
ding, instead relying on the written rules.
When the CFP ruled that there would be a 
four-week ban on parties, including Home- 
Coming and Halloween, and sweeping during 
Sweepstakes, all covered by a $10,000 fine if 
not followed, they were “under the impression 
that the decision was final,” said Jordan Aber- 
man, CFP President. “The presidents’ votes 
[in the CFP] represent each house’s ideals, and 
help to monitor their peers.”
However, after “discussing the CFP’s rec­
ommendation with Deans Walter and Cox, 
and explaining the whole situation to them,” 
Campana decided that the penalty should in­
clude a ban on open parties that “would in­
clude Homecoming but not Halloween, rang­
ing from September 27 to October 18,” thus 
shortening the CFP’s penalty. Also, because 
they “didn’t feel sweeping had anything to do 
with Rush violations,” Campana did not in­
clude that in his penalty. In regard to the fine 
if the rules are not followed, Campana asked 
“$ 10,000 sounds like a great number, but does 
anyone think I could get it from them? That’d 
be like getting blood out of a turnip.” He said 
that he “had not yet thought of enforcement.”
Stone agreed with Aberman that the “CFP 
thought theirs was the final verdict. We battled 
this out for two hours. If he was going to 
change this, he should have told us. Ron 
Campana changed it basically because he
Meeting called to order 7:01 p.m.
Present: Berger, Berkowitz, Bostin, 
Christina, Clark, Gallo, Goldstein, Greenberg, 
Hausman, Kombrek, Levine, Levy, Mukher- 
jee, alternate for Sherlock, Trull.
Absent: Bendre, Liu.
Ex-Officio Members Present: Matsko, Ro- 
bitshek, alternate for Skolkin.
Absent: none.
Audience Participation: none.
President: Andrew Robitshek: The plans for 
the Tech House are not completed. Andy and 
Celeste are working with the faculty to im­
prove the student advisory councils and re­
write the faculty handbook. The advisory 
councils should be improved by January ’88.
9/13 ASSAULT 5:05 am Victim reported 
being assaulted by two young black males on 
KDR patio. Victim's right eye was cut; he 
refused medical attention. One perpetrator 
had short, close-cropped hair, and wore white 
shirt, gold necklace, and a gold earring; other 
was tall.
9/13 MEDICAL 1:42 am Pitt student at­
tempted to jump off SAE patio wall; he fell. 
Medics responded and transported him to 
Presby.
9/13 SPECIAL 1:55 am Two Pitt and 
Chatham females reported their clothing was 
tom off at an ATO wet tee shirt party. Security 
responded, found party had taken place but no 
clothing had been removed from their bodies.
9/12 ASSAULT 11:58 pm Unidentified 
male from Beta thew a cup of beer on female. 
Girl’s male friend- who was on the front lawn 
of DU- went and expressed his opinion of the 
incident to Beta. He called the incident “child­
ish and immature”. Beta brothers punched DU 
brother in right eye.
thought it was too stiff,” explained Stone. “He 
did overrule our decision; we [the CFP] had no 
other say before the final penalty was passed. 
We weren’t given a chance to say what we 
thought.” Stone added that he didn’t think the 
new changes would have been okayed by the 
CFP members, had they been asked.
Campana felt that he had, “in essence, fol­
lowed the CFP recommendation. For the most 
part, I followed it because they felt so strongly 
about maintaining their power. I’m interested 
in being totally neutral and in giving a reason­
able punishment.” He continued, “I’m always 
straight with the fraternities. I never tell them 
one thing and the Administration another.” 
Campana also said that he felt it was within 
DU and Sigma Nu’s “rights and duty to their 
alumni to exhaust every possibility to have the 
imposition not apply to Homecoming. I en­
courage students, if they feel they’ve been 
wronged, to pursue all options.” However, 
Campana added “I feel confident that the 
University will back up my decision to not 
allow a party on Homecoming.”
Four hours after making that statement, 
Campana announced that “the sanction has 
been lifted for Homecoming, and extended to 
the other end—the next weekend.” He insisted 
that his decision had “not been overturned, 
after speaking to Dean Walter, I saw the inher­
ent problems in enforcing the decision. En­
forcement on Homecoming would be a night­
mare.” When asked if the CFP had been con­
sulted concerning the final verdict, Campana 
responded that he discussed it with Jordan 
Aberman [CFP President],” but added that he 
[Campana] has the final say concerning all 
CFP decisions and matters of a disciplinary 
nature. I have to ensure that the rights of 
minorities (in this case the houses that broke
President Cyert will speak to the faculty on 
Wednesday at 3:30 in the Wherrett room. The 
faculty senate will meet Thursday, at 3:30 in 
the Adamson wing.
SDC: Meetings Wednesdays at 7:30. 100 
students at first meeting. Pool and rec room 
equipment will be out within the next two 
weeks. Dance Homecoming weekend.
GSO: Party scheduled for October 30 in the 
Ballroom. Blood drive planned for the future. 
Meeting this Wednesday at 7:30 pm.
Student Affairs: Ron Campana: Vice Presi­
dent Bill Eliott and Pat Keating will discuss the 
New University Center on 9/29, at 7:30 pm in 
the Adamson Wing. If you are concerned 
about asbestos on campus, contact Walt
9/12 THEFT 11:54 pm Pizza man had four 
pizzas removed from his truck which was 
parked between SAE and ATO.
9/13 MEDICAL 4:06 am Student assaulted 
by three black males while walking to campus 
on Ellsworth. Victim was struck on right side 
of face.
9/16 CRIMINAL MISCHIEF 4:03 pm DU 
brothers gazorched a window at Phi Kappa 
Theta house.
9/17 ACCIDENT 9:21 pm Car travelling 
east on Forbes Ave. near Morewood Ave. 
struck male UDS worker who stepped out 
between two cars. Transported to Presby with 
a badly cut face.
9/16 HARASSMENT 9:47 pm Two female 
students reported receiving obscene phone 
calls from whom they believe to be another 
student in the same dorm.
9/17 MAINTENANCE CONDITION 
3:46 pm Hunt Apple Orchard, MM rooms 14 
and 15, and the Children’s School were 
flooded. GSIA trailer was hit by a tree.
the rules) are protected and that a reasonable 
punishment is imposed.”
Aberman said that he “was not informed of 
the first change to allow parties on Hallow­
een,” and that he “got a call informing me of 
the change concerning Homecoming.” In his 
opinion, he did not give input but rather “wa^ 
told. I was under the impression that the CFP 
decision was final. I don’t know where the new 
changes came from, but I’m sure there’s a 
good explanation.”
The ruling not to allow an open party on 
Homecoming was “not practical,” said Dean 
Walter. “Like it or not, alumni will bring 
guests, and it’s not right to penalize alumni. 
It’s just not hospitable.” Both Walter and^ 
Campana said that the possibility of losing 
alumni donations had nothing to do with their 
decision to change the restriction, nor was 
there pressure from either fraternity. “I just 
changed my mind after thinking about en­
forcement,” said Campana.
“I don’t think the penalty will hurt us. We’ve 
explained the situation to most of our biddees, 
and they understand,” said Carey of DU. “We^ 
didn’t have many parties planned anyway.” In 
his opinion, “the biggest problem is other 
houses blowing it up to ridiculous proportions; 
people saying that we got greater fines than we 
did.” He continued, “I just hope that other 
Greeks understand that we weren’t being 
malicious. We didn’t do this to get an unfair 
advantage. I thought that, because of the way 
Rush was structured, everyone would be giv­
ing out bids.”
Hauber of Sigma Nu said “By accepting the 
penalty, it looks like we accept that Sigma Nu 
did something wrong. I for one don’t think we 
did anything wrong. But if it will make people 
happy ...”
Kresnesky, 268-3221.
IFC: Ron Campana: There are loopholes in 
dry Rush this year. Efforts for improvement 
will be made for next year. Dormstorming was 
organized, but the houses did not all go at the 
scheduled times, so there were some prob­
lems. Hal Levine says the fines were not large 
enough. Campana disagrees, because the fines Ik 
were doubled with each offense.
Chairman: Dave Goldstein: Spring break 
may be a week later for Passover and Good 
Friday. Administration is not pleased with the 
Trustees Board Resolution made by Student 
Senate. Senate waits for a response from the 
Faculty Senate on the Faculty Senate resolu­
tion made by Student Senate. Senators’ office 
hours are posted on the senate office door. 
Vacancy petitions will be out by tomorrow.
Treasurer: Kerry Skolkin: none.
Academic Affairs: Celeste Clark: Is investi­
gating core curriculum and course evalu­
ations. Will write articles for the Tartan and 
Student Union.
Campus Affairs: Glenn Kombrek: none.
Funding and Recognition: Tamal Mukher- 
jee: Nothing in writing concerning the August 
event from WRCT. Tamal does not think a 
written report is necessary. WRCT said its 
exec committee with approve all events.
Public Relations: Dana Hausman: Give re 
treat suggestions to Dana. Reception for 
Freshman next Tuesday, 9/22, at 6:30 pm in 
the Wherrett Room.
Rules: Shep Bostin: Is checking spelling and 
format of Constitution. Corrected one will be ** 
distributed at next meeting.
Old Business: none.
New Business: Bostin: Computer Science 
added to Constitution so they can have a seat.
Announcements: Dave has key cards. 
Rules, Campus Affairs, Academic Affairs 
meet after meeting. Public Relations meet 
Thursday at 7 pm. in the office.
Meeting adjourned 7:45 pm.
Student Senate Minutes, September 15 ,
Crime and Incident Report: 9/12 to 9/17

---------------------------------------------------

September 22,1987—The Tartan—Page 7
Greenhouse 
Wins Ryan 
Teaching Award
By ERIC W. LEULIETTE
82,I2s ieeaeI2sI lume rnaIg, 
President Cyert announced Wednes­
day that Joel B. Greenhouse was the 
1987 recipient of the William H. and 
Frances S. Ryan Teaching Award. 
Greenhouse is an assistant professor in 
the Statistics Department. The award 
was established “for the purpose of 
encouraging and recognizing unusual 
devotion and effectiveness in teaching 
undergraduate students.”
Greenhouse’s parents were flown to 
the ceremony from Washington, D.C. 
as a suprise for Greenhouse.
Addressing the faculty for the first 
time this year, Cyert noted faculty 
deaths and retirements. He was fol­
lowed by Vice President for Financial 
Affairs, Fred Rogers, who gave a pre­
view of the annual report to the faculty.
Cyert then explained the administra­
tive reorganization he is considering. 
He concluded with lengthy remarks on 
the goals of the university.
Prior to receiving the Ryan award, 
Greenhouse had won the Elliot Dunlap 
Smith Award for Distinguished Teach­
ing and Educational Service, which is 
awarded to a faculty member of H&SS.
Winners of teaching awards in other 
colleges were Chris Hendrickson of 
CIT, Marilyn Thomas of CFA, Douglas 
Young of SUP A, Lester B. Lave of 
GSIA, Helmut Vogel of MCS, and 
Alfred Spector of CS.
Record Number of Applicants
1166 Students Enter Into Freshman Class
By ERIC W. LEULIETTE
82,I2s ieeaeI2sI lume rnaIg, 
Last fall President Cyert addressed the Board 
of Trustees saying he was “not trying to make 
CMU a great university by making it a large 
university.” The Admissions Office is helping 
him keep this pledge by holding the number of 
entering freshmen nearly constant.
This year 1166 students entered into the 
freshman class from a record number of appli­
cations. The entering class in 1986 was 1170 
and in 1985 the figure was 1175. Director of 
Admissions Michael Steidel said the goal had 
been 1150 students.
The number of applications received this 
year jumped over 12 percent from last year— 
up from 6024 to 6731. Applicants had a 54 
percent chance of getting admitted, but only 
32 percent of the 3651 admitted chose to come 
to CMU.
For historical comparison, 2906 applications 
were received in 1973. Of those, about 65 
percent were admitted. Enrolling freshmen 
numbered 881.
Average SAT scores were up from 1985 in 
all colleges except CIT. The most dramatic 
increase was in H&SS. Its combined math and 
verbal score was up to 1210 this year from 
1150 two years ago. CIT’s combinpd score 
stayed constant during the same period. (1290) 
The notorious male/female ratio continued 
to be two to one. CMU’s admissions policy is 
sex blind. The ratio of males to females in 
applications, admission, and matriculation 
was two to one.
The ratio did improve in CIT. Though the 
number of students entering CIT stayed 
roughly the same as last year, the number 
of females increased from 26 to.42 this year.
CMU Enrollment and Faculty Size
Only 13 percent of CIT freshmen are female.
The number of student in Carnegie Mellon’s 
Action Program (CM AP) fell this year from 61 
to 42 students. CMAP is a program which 
encourages minority students to come to 
CMU. Nationally, since 1978 the number of 
blacks graduating from high school has in­
creased, but the number entering college has 
gone down.
Steidel believes that the increasing cost of 
college is discouraging minority students 
from applying. He states that CMAP tries to 
personally contact as many students U pos­
sible to explain what is available in the wa_ of 
financial support and other assistance.
Source: Vice President for Financial Affairs
The portion of students coming from Penn­
sylvania continued to be whittled away this 
year. The Keystone State is home to only 32 
percent of CMU freshmen, down from 55 
percent ten years ago.
Entering freshmen also have a greater 
chance of getting a degree from here. Of the 
students who entered in 1975, 60 percent 
completed a degree in six years. The latest 
figures show 85 percent getting a degree 
within five years.
Sixteen foreign countries and 46 states are 
represented in the freshman class. Alaska, 
Arizona, North Dakota, and South Dakota are 
the exceptions.
• i •Greek Dry Rush Causes Confusion, Competition
By NATALIE CAPONE
82,I2s 4I2CCm,aIu, 
“I anticipated all of this confusion concern­
ing Rush,” said Ron Campana, Greek Advi­
sor. “You have that with any new program 
because you can’t plan for every eventuality. 
We’ve made many mistakes, and we’ll just 
have to learn from them for the future.” 
Whether it be from the lack of written rules 
and communication, inconsistencies in en­
forcement, or use of dirty rush techniques, 
Carnegie Mellon’s switch to a Dry Rush has 
not been easy.
“One of the flaws around the country in 
switching to a Dry Rush is that it’s too sud­
den,” said Campana. “We made our change 
gradually, having a mixed Rush with three wet 
events last year. This year the solid two weeks
are dry, and fraternity members have to learn 
how to rush, how to really recruit members.” 
The problem with Rush isn’t that it’s dry, in 
the mind of Ari Sklar, Rush chairman of Theta 
Xi. It’s that “The Rush rules are terrible. As 
Rush chairman, I’m pulling my hair out. Every 
week there’s a new rule.” He feels that the 
quadrangle hasn’t seen as great a freshman 
turnout because “The freshmen are confused. 
They weren’t told what Rush is.” Sklar added 
that the confusion concerning Rush rules 
causes people to “start playing with the frater­
nity system—it starts going bad: I think the 
Administration is trying to run us down” by 
turning houses against each other. As an ex­
ample, he said that initially members of the 
Council of Fraternal Presidents (CFP) dis­
cussed “restricting the pledge classes of Delta
University of Pittsburgh
.—-m—iV O-DvK,Tmi,v ,V-m,m(m— TVX vl,V,v
STRESS and WOMEN'S HEALTH
Learn how your body copes with stress and challenge 
throughout the normal menstrual cycle by participat­
ing in a study at the University of Pittsburgh. You 
must be a healthy, non-smoking female between 18 
and 25 years of age, and not taking oral contracep­
tives . An interiew and three separate mornings are 
required, and blood samples will be taken. Monetary 
compensation. For information, call 624-5267 and 
after 5 pm call 624-2041.
Upsilon and Sigma Nu” as a penalty for early 
bidding. “That’s crazy!” said Sklar. “That’s 
what makes a house fall apart.” 
Inter-Fraternity Council (IFC) President 
Fred DeLeon thinks that the lack of communi­
cation between “last year’s and this year’s 
presidents, as well as between houses and the 
IFC” accounts for a large part of the misunder­
standings. “Most of the people who complain 
that they don’t know what’s going on don’t 
come to the meetings.” He cites a special 
meeting that CFP Rush chairman Steve Stone 
held to answer all questions concerning Rush. 
“Only four people showed up!” exclaimed 
DeLeon. “Most of the Rush rules were dis­
cussed by the presidents last spring. But if 
there’s no continuity or overlap, people won’t 
know what’s going on.”
Another concern of DeLeon’s is that, as a 
result of Campana’s changing the penalty for 
early bidding, “No one will think that the CFP 
has any power. We should be allowed to give 
a penalty all the way up to social probation, but 
the way it looks now, our highest fine can only 
be $200.” DeLeon said that prior to the Sep­
tember 15 CFP meeting, Campana said that he 
would back up whatever decision we made. 
But he didn't.”
In response to the change in penalty. Pi 
Kappa Alpha Vice-president Evan Kaliner 
said, “I think that’s bullshit! The CFP was 
created to be self-policing, and to keep the 
school out of enforcing fraternity rules. 
What’s the point of CFP, if it commissions to 
give out a penalty and it’s not followed? The 
CFP has no authority.”
Kaliner also said that although other fraterni­
ties have been “violating rules left and right, 
Pika’s been very clean. We haven't broken 
any rules at all. What’s to stop us from bla­
tantly violating the no-alcohol policy and just 
paying our little fine?”
"This Rush has been very slanderous," said
Sigma Nu Rush chairman Grant Hauber. 
“There've been a couple of houses that have 
used dirty Rush techniques against us—say­
ing that we have homosexuals in the house, 
that we’re on probation and are going to be 
kicked off campus, things to get people to stay 
away. I don’t know why they're against us, but 
th»y are.” Despite these rumors. “Rushees 
came over anyway and found out they weren't 
true. But what about those people who were 
turned away by these rumors?" asked Hauber.
Doug Carey, Rush chairman of DU. was 
upset that “the entire campus knew this'd be 
brought up at the CFP except for us. Steve 
Stone ICFP Rush chairman) brought it up. but 
didn't inform us beforehand.” In place of their 
president. DU had sent only a sophomore 
pledge as IFC representative. "Even Sigma Nu 
was informed, but not us,” said Carey. He 
suggests "competition—we have bad rela­
tions with two houses on campus” as an expla­
nation.
“The fraternities here are very competitive." 
said Aberman, “and I think that’s a result of 
Greek Sing, booth, and buggy. But as CFP 
president. I'm working towards bringing the 
fraternities together. It’ll take a long time. 
Hopefully the next CFP will continue to build 
on what I start.”
NEWS
LEARN IT, KNOW IT, LIVE IT. 
mondays, 6:00, skibo 50

---------------------------------------------------

Editorial
Quality of Life Needs Student Commitment -
by ERIC WITTLE
Last week I discussed a perceived problem 
with communication about the University 
Center as a conclusion to my discussion about 
communication as an important part of Qual­
ity of Life. Less than 
three days after I fin­
ished last week’s col­
umn, I learned there 
will be a meeting 
scheduled by the Administration to discuss the. 
latest aspects of the University Center plan on 
Tuesday, September 29, at 7:30 pm in the 
Adamson Wing. This is a good first step by the 
Administration towards improving communi­
cation about the University Center.
Communication is an integral part of Quality 
of Life at CMU. but there are other issues that 
are perhaps equally important. One of these, as 
1 mentioned in my first column, is student 
commitment. 1 feel very strongly about this 
issue, since I have been involved in student 
organizations for all four of my years here at 
CMU.
The sad fact of the matter is that most stu­
dents don t care enough about their Quality of 
Life, or the Quality of Life of others around 
them. I couldn't possibly count the number of 
times 1 have listened to students complain 
about some aspect of CMU that they don’t 
like. However, when someone tells them what 
they might do to improve the situation, they’re 
always too busy, or they have other plans.
Almost without exception, the administra­
tors I have spoken to are open to student input. 
Most are willing to make time to talk to a 
student on very short notice, and are open to 
suggestions as to how they might improve life 
for students. CMU’s administration is not a 
big, heartless, money-sucking machine, as 
most students seem to prefer to believe. The 
administration is composed, for the most part, 
of good people who make some effort to
communicate and compromise. However, it is 
clear that working with students is a responsi­
bility that the administration could take more 
seriously.
It is not just the administration that suffers 
from lack of student commitment. Almost all 
of the student organizations on campus are 
very short of students who are willing to spend 
some time helping their organization. Our 
yearbook nearly dieji this year, because no one 
wanted to be the editor. Ask the leaders of any 
student organization on campus, and we’ll tell 
you that we need people.
Everyone knows that CMU students are 
busy, and that our workload is very high. This 
is the reason that most students give for not 
being involved. My answer to this is that life 
doesn’t improve by itself. It takes effort to 
make things better. If we are unwilling to make 
the effort to improve our surroundings, for 
ourselves and other students, the least we can 
do is not complain when things don’t go the 
way we want.
Complaining, as opposed to constructive 
criticism, has a very detrimental effect on 
everyone’s Quality of Life. Complaining 
about the food in Kiltie, or how much work 
you have, or how little time you have does 
nothing constructive, but merely upsets the 
people around you. If these are really prob­
lems for you, do something to alleviate them. 
Come to SDC and speak to the Food Services 
Chairman about what you don’t like about 
Kiltie. He hasn’t received one complaint yet 
this year. If you feel you have too much work, 
speak to your professors and they might be 
able to help. If time is a problem, come to a 
time management workshop, which the Hous­
ing Office puts on frequently.
If you are unhappy enough about an issue or 
problem to tell your friends about it, perhaps 
you should consider if you feel strongly 
enough to try to improve the situation. There
are many people on campus who would be 
happy to point you in the right direction, and 
give any help they can. Resident Assistants are 
paid to do this, and both Student Senators and 
SDC representatives volunteer their time to 
help students with their concerns.
No matter how little time you have, there is 
always something you can do to improve your 
Quality of Life, and the Quality of Life of
Letters:
Editor:
Aaron Solomon and Thomas Heim seem 
bent on portraying conservatives as com­
pletely ignorant on the issues of U.S. in­
volvement in Central America.
Their Conservative Comer article “Sup­
port the Contras, Support Democracy” 
begins by claiming that America (presuma­
bly they mean the United States) has a “role 
as a supporter and defender of democracy 
and freedom on this planet.” While some 
would like to believe that such claims have 
some merit, it is in fact the stated policy of 
the United States that fighting communism 
is more important than supporting democ­
racy. If there were to be any state which 
were truly democratic and also communist, 
United States policy would be to work for 
the overthrow of that government.
One has only to inspect any of a number of 
governments which the United States has 
supported, or which it is now supporting, to 
see that the United States has a minimal 
concern with supporting democracy or 
freedom. The Contras have certainly not 
shown any stronger commitment to either 
of these goals than the Sandanistas. Equally 
certain is the fact that the previous United
everyone around you. If you would like sug­
gestions, or if you have any constructive criti­
cism to offer, I can be reached through the 
SDC Office (x2114), campus mail (Box 576), 
or electronic mail (ewlk@tb).
r,av taIIyu ae 2 ISa,n pu2, bueanusI ieeaeI2sI1 
9,ueanusI gC ISu 4I7nusI Fg,EaIg,p Ag7svay1 
2sn 2 EuETu, gC ISu RsaMu,eaIp 82e. Pg,vu gso 
372yaIp gC NaCuh
States supported dictatorship of Nicaragua 
was much less committed to these goals than ^ 
the current government.
The history of the United States foreign 
policy with respect to Nicaragua and most 
other countries is to support any capitalistic 
government with similar disregard to its rec­
ord.
After making that first claim, Solomon and 
Heim quickly follow with a demonstration of 
their ignorance of geography by claiming that * 
Central America is “right where we live.” The 
fact that the United States is not in Central 
America is a key factor in why the majority of 
United States citizens are opposed to any fur­
ther aid to the Contras.
If Mr. Solomon and Mr. Heim wish to per­
suade people to accept their conservative 
viewpoints, they would do well to avoid intro­
ducing their articles with statements that*) 
demonstrate their gross disregard for the facts 
of the issues that they choose to address. If they 
wish to support democracy, they should con­
sider that a demographic decision in the 
United States would not support the Contras.
Rick Busdiecker 
Math/Computer Science '88
Quality
of
Life
Heim & Solomon Are Off The Conservative Track
Andrew’s Cup Runneth Over
“The demand for [public personal] computers greatly exceeds the number 
available...”
Most students would agree with this excerpt from Andrew-Plus: Carnegie 
Mellon s Computing Environment, a pamphlet distributed by Academic Serv­
ices. As Andrew nears completion, more and more students and faculty are 
spending time playing with it and seeing what it can do. Add to this the over 1100 
incoming freshmen who automatically get Andrew accounts, and you have an 
annoyingly crowded Andrew cluster.
Academic Computing is notorious for using heavy PR to encourage students 
to experiment with new features added to the campus’ computer system. Addi­
tionally they have steadily increased the number of public computers available 
to students over the past few years. That's why it’s so distressing to watch those 
resources suddenly taken away while the PR deluge doesn't stop.
One cannot argue about the restricted daytime use of Baker Hall 140; after all, 
it was refurbished specifically for Computing Skills Workshop, and it is the only 
place on campus that has the facilities needed by that course. Plus, it becomes 
public after 9 pm. What is really distressing is the closing of other “public” 
clusters during prime hours, sometimes for 3-hour-long classes!
It wouldn 't be so bad, though, if Academic Computing would simply get a clear 
policy and organize it better. A worn piece of paper with scribbles on it hanging 
in acluster does not serve well as a notice of when the room is reserved. An entire 
cluster containing 25 computers should not be cordoned off for the use of a class 
of 10 people.
It’s obvious that classes about Andrew require the use of Andrew. But whoever 
organized those classes forgot to consider the needs of other students. There are 
classes which require the use of Andrew, but do not have their prime resource 
reserved for them. Think of the 15-212 student who is ejected from his seat in 
mid-program, in favor of an elective course.
It’s not fair. Either every class should have equal reserved time, or every 
student should have to fend for himself. Since it is impossible for every class to To go one step further, courses which require the use of Andrew, a still 
reserve use during prime hours, no class should be allowed to monopolize a experimental system, should not yet be considered by the university. They are 
“public” cluster. entirely premature.

---------------------------------------------------

September 22, 1987—The Tartan—Page 9
Letters (cont’d):Bork Appointment A Dangerous Issue
Bork’s Garbage Very Revealing
By THE INQUIRING STAFF
This week, we decided to act like we 
were reporters for the Miami Herald. So 
we put on our overcoats and waited 
behind the bushes at Robert Bork’s 
house until he 
finally went 
down to the 7- 
11 for a pack of 
smokes. We 
thought: “Why doesn’t he have pretty 
houseguests like Gary Hart?” Trying to 
make the best of this disappointing situ­
ation, we went through his garbage.
They say you can tell a lot about a man 
by his garbage. Ever wonder why he 
seems so heavy-set? We never thought 
that Nabisco made that many kinds of 
Oreos. But the, real scoop was an old 
shoe box filled with the only non-shred- 
ded papers we could find. Our journal­
istic integrity was wavering until we re­
membered we’re writing for the Herald! 
The facts must come out, no matter how 
ugly. So without further ado, we bring 
you the saga of Robert Bork’s ever- 
changing judicial views.
The oldest paper we could find was 
written in crayon and seemed to be 
addressed to his kindergarten teacher. 
He wrote, “Busing is stupid. Those 
minority kids beat me up! Separate is 
equal (and safer!).”
Next we saw what looked like a diary 
entry from the fourth grade. “I told Mrs. 
Crabtree that Johnny stole my Oreos 
and hid them in his desk, but she still 
wouldn’t search the desk. She said that 
as a teacher she couldn’t intrude upon 
his privacy. I said that was dumb, and 
knocked Johnny over and checked his 
desk myself. I got detention (the Oreos 
weren’t there).”
In the eighth grade Bobby Bork must 
have had his first health class. During 
show-and-tell, he found out what birth 
control pills were. It made him sort of 
wish he hadn’t believed Jane when she 
said they were candy. He was crabby for 
the next four days. He wrote Jane’s 
mother a letter about her responsibility 
as a parent. “I’m amazed you would 
allow Jane to have contraceptives. 
Women have an obvious choice: have 
babies or be sterilized.”
In college, Bork wrote a complaint, to 
the head of housing claiming that a 
certain fraternity would come by his 
room every night and call him an “Oreo- 
sucking worm.” The housing director 
wrote back telling him, “I’m sorry, but 
they are perfectly within their rights to 
do so. After all, they’re right.”
We only found one letter from his law 
school days, inside a wrapper for Oreo 
Double Stuffs. He wrote his mom, “I got 
my first ‘F’ last week, but it really isn’t 
a big deal. The test was only on special 
prosecutors, nothing important.” 
Fortunately for the nation, Bork 
passed law school and eventually made 
it to a full professorship at Yale. He 
wrote a letter to a student explaining 
why he’d failed that student. “You just 
didn’t seem to understand the differ­
ence between important amendments 
like the 18th, as opposed to ones like the 
13th and 14th. After all, they were writ­
ten in haste and therefore are inconse­
quential. In addition, precedence isn’t 
that important. I think the importance is 
what the framers were driving at and to 
go back to that, you twit.”
We’d have read more, but we heard 
him coming back. Oh well, it’s tough 
writing for the Miami Herald, espe­
cially when you hate Oreos.
8Su 'sk7a,as; 4I2CC ae 4h NuMasu1 Ah 
tayya2Ee1 2sn bh tayegsh
Inquiring Minds Go Undercover...
Editor:
It is my opinion that the question of the 
appointment of Judge Bork is potentially the 
most important and most dangerous issue, in 
regard to the maintenance of the American 
political system, in recent history. If he is 
accepted and successfully implements his 
philosophy, the result, paradoxically enough, 
could be a point in time where all must be gay 
(and may even be forced into the act and 
monitored in their own bedroom), where chil­
dren might not only not be allowed to pray in 
school, but might not even be allowed to think 
of or mention God in school. Hopefully, the 
reality of this kind of extreme danger, will 
become clear as I proceed.
It was explicitly the intent of the 
Constitution’s framers, and is necessarily a 
practical policy in the functioning of the gov­
ernment, that there be an essential and delicate 
balance of power among the branches of gov­
ernment (the powers being not just in the 
legislative branch,) and this has allowed our 
system not only to work, but to work well. 
Judge Bork’espouses a philosophy termed 
“judicial restraint.” I believe this philosophy 
flies in the face of the necessary and explicitly 
enumerated functions of the judicial branch at 
the level of the Federal Supreme Court 
(though not necessarily so in the lower courts) 
that the judicial branch must actively engage 
in determining the laws of the land. They have 
been allotted, by the Constitution, this power 
(through their function of overruling unconsti­
tutional laws and establishing precedences to 
flesh out the general terms of pieces of legis­
lation and the Constitution), and this power 
and the success of its purposes (soon to be
enumerated) lies in the hands of Supreme 
Court justices, whether they like it or not.
Two primary reasons for this arrangement 
are the necessity of protecting minorities 
against the opinions of the majority (in which 
may lurk facism and all kinds of injustices 
against humanity) emerging through the legis­
lative branch, and protecting against unjust 
acquisition and execution of power by the 
executive branch. It is enormously important 
to note, in association with these purposes, that 
Bork’s policies and actions: 1. would leave the 
tyranny of the majority largely unchecked by 
giving an excess of legislative power to federal 
and state congresses, and 2. have already 
almost allowed injustices by the executive 
branch, by ordering the termination of the 
Watergate investigations. Clearly Bork’s phi­
losophy of interpretations flies straight in the 
face of these considerations, whether this is his 
intent, or not.
One can’t help but wonder why. I believe that 
it is because Bork is bright enough (and his 
intelligence is the greatest danger) to realize 
that different styles of interpretation can 
achieve different political ends. When the 
majority is “moral,” giving greater power to 
their representatives would result in legislated 
morality. We can no longer naively assume 
that different styles and policies in regard to 
interpretation have no direct political conse­
quences. For instance, Bork is typified as a 
literalist” or “constructionist” which means 
that he would inevitably (and I believe inten­
tionally) lose the vital judicial processes in the 
secondary specifics of already established 
laws and or he would ignore the relevant 
contents of our constitution because of the
general terms in which our constitution and 
rights were intentionally laid out. Here one can 
clearly see the danger of Bork’s intelligence in 
that it allows him to find what may or may not 
be unconstitutional particulars already on the 
books, and allow him to use the real or imag­
ined constraints of the judicial process to 
achieve his ideological ends, while ignoring 
the clear but general terms of the primary 
foundational documents of our government.
As I have said before, there is a fragile 
arrangement of things, which provides for an 
ethic (as opposed to a morality) that allows 
what is possibly the primary goal of our politi­
cal philosophy—to protect the variety of life­
styles (/or instance, from legislation) in so 
much as they don’t interfere with the life­
styles, rights, or pursuit of happiness by others 
(the variety of these styles and the pursuit of 
happiness and rights are necessarily related). 
Some have cunningly stated that Bork’s phi­
losophy allows for a greater diversity of ways, 
but the diversity would be of legislation (such 
as “all must be gay” or “all must be straight”) 
and not of lifestyles—there is an unavoidable 
difference! The advantage of our democracy is 
that it is a political polytheism (of perspectives 
and lifestyles) and this can only be maintained 
and contained by a completely transcendent 
monotheistic (and all ethics must be) ethic 
which does not lose its transcendent position 
by the judicial system giving its shape of 
power to the “majority.” Such an act cancels 
this valuable polytheism by allowing for the 
legislation of one morality (lifestyle.)
In closing, just the other day I heard a sup­
porter of Bork say to two feuding brothers, that 
it is right to argue against specific points but 
not against personalities. I found this very 
ironic because the philosophy of Bork allows 
for this, by destroying the transcendental ethic 
prior to or above personality and lifestyle. In 
this particular case of personality conflict, 
things didn’tend too tragically; however, what 
of the brotherhood of our nation where the 
brothers are a little less family and a little more 
the stranger from the other side?
Donald Smith 
English/Philosophy "87
The Tartan
Editor-in-Chief............................Russ Seligman
.......Mark Benish
News Editor...............................Karl Barnhart
Assistant News Editor................Eric Leuliette
Features Editor...........................Mary Murphv
Assistant Features Editor..........Judv Haraburda
Sports Editor.............................Stewart Levine
.......Bruce Kasrel
Assistant Diversions Editor...
Art Editor............................Grant Carmichael
Literary Editor.......................Michele Osherow
Production Manager.........................Drue Miller
Ad Manager..................................Celeste Clark
Copy Manager.........................Nancy St. Louis
Contributing Editors..........................................
Lisa D. McAnany Olve Peerson
Albrecht T. Powell John Friedmann
Neil Greenblum Andrew Gillespie
The Tartan is a student newspaper of Carnegie Mellon University It 
is a weekly newspaper published each Tuesday during the fad and 
spring semesters by students at no cost to members of the university 
community It is printed by Typecraft Press, Inc Subscriptions are 
available tor $15 per semester, $25 per year The Editorial appearing 
at the beginning ot the opinion section is the official opinion of The 
Tartan editorial board CoHimns are the opinions of individual authors 
who are not necessarily on The T artan editorial board or staff Letters 
to the Editor are opinions of individual authors who are usually 
members of the University community A letter intended for publication 
must be signed and include the writer s address and phone number (or 
verification Names will be withheld upon request The Tartan re 
serves the right to condense or reject any letter or column Copyright 
1987 by The Tartan The editonal board reserves the right to withhold 
from publication any copy it deems unfit tor publication
Office: Skibo 50-52 (412) 268-2111 
Mailing address: The Tartan / Box 17/ Carnegie 
Mellon University / Pittsburgh, PA 15213 
Funded in part by the Activities Fee AH rights 
reserved. Library of Congress ISSN #: 0890-3107
HERBLOCK’S CARTOON
©198.7Vo
999 • • •

---------------------------------------------------

Page 10—The Tartan—September 22,1987
Letters (coat'd):Tech House Is Not “Tech House” Anymore
Editor:
As most of us know by now, the future of the 
house next to Donner Hall is uncertain. Be­
cause of this uncertainty, the Catholic group 
known as Tech Christian Fellowship, which 
ocupied the house for fifteen years, was 
moved out of this house and into 15 Roselawn 
Terrace at the end of the summer.
In its twenty year history, Tech Christian 
Felowship has resided in four different houses 
on or near campus (first on Beeler Street, then 
on Forbes Avenue, next at 5125 margaret 
Morrison Street, and now at 15 Roselawn 
Terrace). The group at that time chose to call 
their residence “Tech House.“ Thus, four dif­
ferent buildings have been known as Tech
House in the past twenty years.
I am therefore requesting that the campus 
community, in the future, refrain from using 
the words “Tech House” to refer to 5125 
Margaret Morrison Street, as Tech House is 
now 15 Roselawn Terrace.
As one of the founders of the movement to 
preserve 5125 Margaret Morrison Street, I 
would like to state that I will support any 
efforts by Student Senate to preserve the 
house, which I prefer to call the Wright house, 
after the original owners who bought or built 
the house in 1895.
Chris Durham
Tech Christian Fellowship
HERBLOCK’S CARTOON
WAIT A MINUTE—WHERE PIP THE CONFETTI AMP STREAMERS COME FROM?1*
<£>I987»^E‘R'^»0CK
If agg CAM CO etTHefc g7I fC TH&S6- You MAV6 nHrtî IT To dfA COMfc sreiP -T^p-t/vo. ¿j£
UX)£1H6- TV GVcftli "THE- AJUM&efL.
fc STVP6AJT- PÇODÜCÇP SrtffS In fûWMtc4se^noM. if you Avze íAm&eesncD rw ¿¿Rfrwc-A/jp/ce PfZAww A STPÁP. cone, -to -me- -TAtCTAN Office (ROW* so in «¿»80)
The Tartan would like to announce the addition of HERBLOCK 
to its editorial page. Herbert L. Block, who has been called “the 
greatest American cartoonist,” has won more Pulitzer Prizes 
than any journalist in history. (He has been awarded three 
Pulitzers and a citation from the Pulitzer committee.)
The cartoon appears in hundreds of newspapers worldwide, and 
has been gaining popularity in recent years. We hope you enjoy 
it as much as we do.
4ya;SIyp Ig ISu yuCIhOn Losing An Arm
By MICHAEL FRANZINI &
MICHAEL WITBROCK
The past week has witnessed more progress 
in arms control than we have seen since the 
Carter Administration, perhaps since the in­
vention of the Bomb. However, the President 
stifling the potential 
for further advances. 
If Reagan stands his 
ground on Star Wars 
and on nuclear test­
ing, the expected November summit between 
Gorbachev and the President will almost cer­
tainly be a dud.
The Soviet leader is quite satisfied with the 
plan to settle the treaty on medium and shorter 
range missiles now and put off the question of 
intercontinental missiles until next year. This 
position is fine for the Russians, but Reagan’s 
bargaining position is waning. The Soviet 
leadership has made it clear that cutting back 
the doomed SDI program now would buy the 
U.S. significant reductions in missiles aimed 
at the U.S. from Soviet soil. The President’s 
top arms control expert, Paul Nitze, has urged 
the administration to exercise this option. 
Reagan won’t budge.
The President's stubborn resistance to bar­
gaining and his forced re-interpretation of the
Letters (cont d):
1972 ABM treaty (which, he now contends, 
does permit the space-based missile defense in 
the SDI) is weakening his already faltering 
Congressional support. Last Thursday, the 
Senate offered a sharp reproach to Admini-' 
stration policies by defeating a proposal to 
bolster the SDI with more funds and earlier 
testing. The White House must consider using 
its SDI bargaining chip before it crumbles.
Not only is the President impeding progress 
towards ICBM reductions, but he is also trying 
to reverse the trend towards reducing or ban­
ning nuclear testing, which has continued 
through every administration since* 
Eisenhower’s. Kennedy negotiated the Lim­
ited Test Ban agreement, Nixon completed the 
Threshold Test Ban Treaty, and the Carter 
Administration worked for a comprehensive 
ban on testing. Reagan, in contrast, believes 
that a test ban would be inconsistent with our 
national interests. He is as hesitant to negotiate 
now as he was in July, 1985, when the USSR 
instituted an 18-month moratorium on testing,' 
hoping to elicit similar action from the US.
Reagan should recognize that his bargaining 
position is decaying along with his Congres­
sional and popular support. He should lay his 
chips on the table now, or he may have nothing 
to offer Mr. Gorbachev in November.
Track Getting The Brush in Master Plan
Editor:
My conversations with people who have 
been involved in planning for the University 
Center, and my viewing of the model and 
drawings of the plan which was selected as 
winner of the design competition both point 
toward an apparent decision which I regret.
It looks to me as though the indoor track that 
has been contemplated will be crammed into a 
building too small to accommodate anything 
but a “jogging track” with square comers and 
many laps to the mile. My understanding is 
that what has been contemplated would be 
cantilevered from the outside walls of the 
building, high above some interior space, with 
an open hole in the area inside the track. I have 
been assured many times that no final deci­
sions have been made, but the member of the 
committee working directly with the architec­
tural firm who chaired a subcommittee on 
athletic and recreational needs told me that he 
considers an eight lap to the mile track on the 
same level as interior space—infeasible and 
unjustified by our needs at CMU. The gymna­
sium building in the architects’ model 
couldn't accommodate an eight lap track. On 
the other hand, the model includes a separate 
building for a 50-meter pool in addition to the 
25-yard pool in the current gymnasium.
My own impression, admittedly quite biased 
by my own interest in running, is that there are 
a great many people at CMU who consider a 
well-designed, high quality indoor track to be 
a high priority in the design of a new athletic 
facility. I personally feel that I have come to be 
viewed as a zealot on this issue by the people 
who are actually involved in the planning 
process, and thus feel relatively powerless to 
change any minds.
I would like to know whether there is wide­
spread sentiment that a “jogging track” isn’t 
really the solution to running during Pitts­
burgh winters. 1 invite anypne with UDQpuuoa.
on this issue to send me a note via campus mail. 
(Please send a hard copy which includes your 
name and whether you’re a faculty member, 
staff member, or student. Please don’t send 
computer mail. I need a sheet of paper for each 
response). I will report the results in another 
letter to The Tartan, and will convey them to 
the committee which is currently interacting 
with the architectural firm.
Jim Hoburg
Professor, Department of Electrical and 
Computer Engineering
Student Dismayed Over Class Ring Run-around
Editor:
I received an unpleasant shock today. Since 
the beginning of school, I have been waiting 
for a certain jeweler to come to campus. I 
chose the class ring I wanted in the spring, and 
I waited to order it. I became impatient and 
called the bookstore to ask when the jeweler 
was coming. It seems that the powers that be 
got together and decided which class ring I 
should buy. Just to make sure that I didn’t 
make a mistake and not choose their ring, they 
conveniently removed all of the other choices. 
Yes, fellow students, if you want a class ring, 
there is only one kind you can buy. Better yet: 
there is only one design—you will not have 
your degree, your year, your major, or your 
name on the side. You will, however, have a 
square setting and a purple stone. I find it 
highly offensive to have this choice made for 
me. I will have this ring for the rest of my li/e 
and I want to like it. More than that however, 
I want it to be a personalized momento of my 
college years. Give us the freedom of choice.
„KimCisko___ ____

---------------------------------------------------

1 I
<v
HOW I MADE $18,000 
FOR COLLEGE 
BY WORKING WEEKENDS
o
When my friends and I graduated 
from high school, we all took part-time 
jobs to pay for college.
They ended up in car washes and 
hamburger joints, putting in long hours 
for little pay.
Not me. My job takes just one 
weekend a month and two weeks a year. 
Yet, I’m earning $18,000 for college.
Because I joined my local Army 
National Guard.
They’re the people who help our 
state during emergencies like hurri­
canes and floods. They’re also an 
important part of our country’s military 
defense.So, since I’m helping them do such 
an important job, they’re helping me 
make it through school.
As soon as I finished Advanced Training, the Guard gave me a cash 
bonus of $2,000. Then, under the New GI Bill, I’m getting another $5,000 for tuition and books.
Not to mention my monthly Army 
Guard paychecks. They’ll add up to more than $11,000 over the six years I’m in the Guard.
And if I take out a college loan, the Guard will help me pay it back-up to 
$1,500 a year, plus interest.
It all adds up to $18,000—or more —for college for just a little of my time. 
And that’s a heck of a better deal than any car wash will give you.THE GUARD CAN HELP PUT YOU THROUGH COLLEGE, TOO. SEE YOUR LOCAL RECRUITER FOR DETAILS, CALL TOLL-FREE 800-638-7600* OR MAIL THIS COUPON.
*In Hawaii: 737-5255; Puerto Rico: 721-4550; Guam. 477 9957; Virgin Islands (St. Croix): 773 6438; New Jersey: 800 452-5794. In Alaska, consult your local 
phone directory.c 1985 United States Government as represented by the Secretary of Defense All rights .reserved.
I---------------------------------------------------------1MAIL TO; Army National Guard, P.O. Box 6000, Clifton, NJ 07015
______________________________________________________________________________? M ? F
NAME
ADDRESS
CITY/STATE/ZIP
US CITIZEN ? YES ? NO
AREA CODE PHONE
SOCIAL SECURITY NUMBER
OCCUPATION
STUDENT ? HIGH SCHOOL 
PRIOR MILITARY SERVICE :
: COLLEGE 
YES ? NO
BRANCHRANKAFM/MOS
VODvKiO, T(Xi vOl • <**OVO€ INC^J&WG *Ou« SOC'»i StCu»r» NUMBt»
at jstc *3» s* s •>** «ou» sot », Sicu»^ sjMet°
«H., B€ JSÎ0'C Of SWXSi *0 '«S »0 >0>jSC H.3
National Guard
A1CUC21097NPArmy National Guard
^ Americans At Their Best.

---------------------------------------------------

Features
Peace
Thinking of Grad School? Conference Can Answer Questions
Win $5,000, if you canImagine
By KELLY SPENCER
82,I2s 4I2CCm,aIu,
Have you ever heard of the old saying “see­
ing is believing?” Well, experimental psy­
chology has shown that people do indeed tend 
to think in terms of concrete scenarios. Out­
comes with a development easily envision- 
able are generally assigned a higher probabil­
ity for actual occurrence than those less read­
ily imaginable. In light of this discovery, the 
Program of International Peace and Security 
(EPS) here at Carnegie Mellon is sponsoring a 
writing competition, “Imagine Peace,” to en­
courage individuals and small groups of up to 
four people to create realistic scenarios for 
peace in the hope that “seeing it” will facili­
tate believing it is possible.
“Imagine Peace” is open to any individual 
or group of individuals and director of public­
ity stresses that those employed full-time are 
also welcome to apply; IPS will take into 
account individual schedules when planning 
activities for fellowship winners. These fel­
lowships will be determined from the results 
of two phases of competition. In the first of 
these, participants will submit one or more 
scenarios describing a plausible plan for 
peace. These submissions should be less than 
1500 words (6 pages) and should also include 
plans for possible development into a pub­
lished resource such as a novel, short story, 
essay, play, movie screenplay, or video. While 
IPS is principally focusing on peace between
As the flood pours down in Pittsburgh many 
have begun to speculate on the strength of the 
Carnegie Mellon campus. While it has been a 
substitute for the outdated “Ark” style of au­
tumnal shelter in the past, it just might not 
make it through this year. The size (300 cubits 
by 50 cubits, with a height of 30 cubits) is 
almost inadequate for the increase in inhabi­
tants. The lines at the Kiltie add to the tension
SPECTACLES
BY SARA FLYNN
by making two of every sort hungry and impa­
tient. The torrential downpour has not im­
proved tempers and the men, beasts and creep­
ing things have been quibbling amongst them­
selves.
Games are muddy and fields are soggy. 
Several sportsmen have been unable to play, 
and those that do are often handicapped. Ten­
nis can’t be played without using a fresh ball 
for every volley. Golfers have become frus­
trated by wearing waders to the course. By 
tying their golf balls to the flies of fishing 
poles, however, the line drives of a few have 
improved. The CMU/ Case Western game of 
Saturday evolved into a water ballet. While the 
marching band tried to add some snap to the 
event by performing a lovely Bern Jovi med­
ley, spectators were showered with free gifts. 
Mac disks were a reward for braving the rain.
Athletics are more important than ever be­
fore because of the strife amongst men and 
women. Without some release of tension 
things could become much worse. There has 
been an increase in fist fights and many fear a 
possible uprising. The “trickle theory” of pres­
sure is one we all remember from last fall. It 
started with leaks flooding computers. Then 
the formation of puddles caused squeaky 
shoes and annoying wet socks. Umbrellas 
poked pedestrians, students stopped shower­
ing in an effort to dry out, and before October
the superpowers, entries may also deal with 
the resolution of a specific regional conflict of 
international significance. Entries should be 
detailed, realistically-oriented, and begin with 
the world as it exists currently, proceeding 
with a logical and peaceful course of events. 
Each entry should also include a completed 
application form, available in Baker Hall 129. 
Scenarios will be judged on creativity, plausi­
bility, good writing, as well as the feasibility 
of developing them into publishable products. 
Informal interviews may be requested during 
this phase.
Winners from Phase I will be invited to 
accept fellowships of $5000 or more to sup­
port their participation in the second phase. At 
this time, winners will meet with each other, 
IPS faculty, and a variety of outside experts in 
the fields relevant to the scenarios. Through 
workshops and consultations, winners will be 
assisted in preparing final, publishable scenar­
ios for peace. The deadline for submissions is 
October 16, 1987. Winners will be notified 
December 7,1987, and Phase II will run con­
currently with CMU’s spring semester of 
1988. In addition, special academic awards 
are available for full-time CMU and cross- 
registration students granting course credit for 
successful completion of their scenarios. 
These awards will include up to $500 for 
expenses such as books or travel. So come on 
all you doubting Thomases, “seeing is believ­
ing”—imagine peace!
mold and mildew will take over.
Many expect this year to be worse because of 
several factors. The price increase on plastic 
bags and waterproof ink at Entropy could 
create an immediate inflation. Subsequent val- 
idine depletions will result While this won’t 
be reflected in the hemlines on campus, many 
students will wear garbage bags to class. The 
“all black” will do nothing for morale. Eco­
nomics majors fear that these factors, com­
bined with the extra-crowded ark conditions 
of this fall could result in a drastic increase of 
crimes and incidences.
The only possible salvation is the strength of 
Dry Rush. But for some reason, the havens of 
a bone dry fraternity house aren’t providing 
the usual comfort this year. Two Greeks were 
overheard complaining loudly on Friday 
night. Not only were they rebelliously stand­
ing outdoors, they were also refusing to wear 
appropriate raingear. On top of this they were 
discussing the possibility of never donning a 
slicker. While some of their brothers frolicked 
merrily in a nearby hot tub, symbolically em­
bracing the flood season, these two remained 
petulant
Let us try to keep in mind the future. Mt. 
Ararat will surface soon and erase some of 
these belligerent attitudes. Shortly after that, 
in keeping with tradition, our president will 
release the famous dove at homecoming. 
Alumnae will rejoice as she returns with the 
olive branch.
After that the chalice will be raised, rush will 
be over, and Noah will not be the only one who 
becomes inebriated. The close quarters and 
crowded interiors of the 40 days we are in the 
midst of now will be forgotten. 40 nights of 
steamy dull movies in DH2210 will be only a 
memory.
Let’s try to stay dry. Buckle up your Macs 
and keep your rubbers on. Remember the 
school covenant: “The rain will wash away 
and the earth will remain, seedtime and har­
vest cold and heat and day and night will not 
merge as one in the clusters of our campus.”
By ALBRECHT T. POWELL
82,I2s AgsI,aT7Ias; rnaIg,
Graduate School: Think about it NOW. If 
you have even the remotest idea of someday 
attending graduate school, start thinking about 
it today, regardless of what year you are in. 
The process of choosing and applying to 
graduate school is similar to that of college; 
however, a lot more thought and definition 
goes into this choice. Although the beginning 
of the junior year is the most crucial to start a 
serious approach to different schools, fresh­
men and sophomores who are thinking about 
further education should begin getting an idea 
of what is available, where current trends are 
in various fields of study, and what goes on in 
the process of looking at and applying to 
graduate schools. The earlier you begin your 
research and the more information you have 
gained, the better informed you will be, and the 
easier a decision and process it will be.
The first question you need to ask yourself is, 
“Is graduate school right for me?” Many stu­
dents are clear cut as to their plans, and want 
to gain a certain degree from a certain school. 
This is great, and these students are right on 
track to their futures.
But for most of us, the idea of going on to 
further schooling is not as well defined. There 
is a sense of “campus security” that naturally 
would overflow right through the senior year 
into the first year of graduate school. For these 
people, a bit of consideration is seriously 
needed. Graduate school demands are great 
and the transition from college to grad school 
is as great as that from high school to college.
Graduate school requires clear cut ideas and 
thinking with well-defined goals. For stu­
dents who are not sure if this is the right step, 
or don’t think they have the credentials to get 
into one, a serious consideration would be to 
enter the workplace and gain job experience to 
first define your goals in more detail. This 
also, perhaps more importantly, may add 
more credence and value to a graduate pro­
gram by applying it to the “real world.”
For those of you who are also fearing that 
grades and entrance examination scores could 
hinder your future, gaining work experience 
can greatly enhance your credentials. For per­
sons going back to school, admissions people 
look with great detail at work experience and 
successes in their evalutation of a candidate.
Graduate school programs are divided pri­
marily into two categories: academic and 
professional. Academic degrees are primarily 
geared towards original research whereas 
professional degrees take the practical appli­
cation of knowledge and skills and apply them 
to a given professsion. The type of degree 
sought depends solely on the direction you 
plan to take in your future.
Most students first earn a master’s degree 
and find this is more than adequate for their 
needs. Many, though push on to a doctorate, 
which is necessary in some career fields, such 
as Doctor of Medicine (M.D.), or for teaching 
in college, requiring a Doctor of Philosophy 
(Ph.D.). Most master’s programs take be­
tween two and three years to complete, while 
a doctorate may take up to four.
Once you figure out that you may be inter­
ested, begin seriously considering different 
schools and programs early in your junior 
year. Some excellent sources are: The Carne­
gie Mellon Career Services and Placement 
Office who has a wealth of information from 
many schools and can give you personalized 
help with career planning Also, the books: 
9uIu,egs e iss72y O7anue Ig O,2n72Iu 4I7np 
wGDBand O,2n72Iu 9,g;,2Ee 2sn inEaeeagse 
x2s72y wGDBWDD are excellent sources of 
research. These give outlines of schools, 
fields of study, academic programs, financial 
aid programs, costs, and much other informa­
tion.
The other very important source of informa­
tion is your department faculty. These arc
people you should be getting to know person­
ally even by the end of your sophomore year. 
These are the people who not only can help 
guide you in the definition of your goals, but 
also can suggest different schools or programs 
suitable to your personal abilities and ideas. 
Besides, these are the people you will need 
letters of recommendation from in the near 
future.
As you begin to examine specific programs 
more closely, look at the school you are con­
sidering and its reputation, the faculty, place­
ment opportunities, cost and all of the other 
considerations you had when you looked at 
undergraduate schools. You will be living at 
this university or college for a while, so it 
might as well be a pleasurable experience.
Once you have selected programs and insti­
tutions that meet your needs, you will have to 
begin applying to them. You will be required 
to forward a copy of your undergraduate tran­
script, usually by the end of your junior year. 
The admissions staff will look at not only 
grades, but coursework, courseload, difficulty 
of courses, and the university. Also you will 
need several letters of recommendation from 
professors or employers. These should be 
people who know you well, can relate to you 
well, and have specific knowledge of your 
abilities. Approach these people early, as they 
will need time to prepare them.
Schools generally require an entrance ex­
amination of some type. The basic one is the 
Graduate Record Examination (GRE), how­
ever they may also require the Law School 
Admissions Test (LSAT), Medical College 
Admissions Test (MCAT), Graduate Manage­
ment Admissions Test (GMAT), and the Mill­
ers Analogies Test (MAT). The specific 
university will define which of these, if any 
you would be required to take. The exams 
should be taken at least one year prior to 
anticipated matriculation, so the end of the 
junior year or beginning of the senior year is a 
good time to take them.
Other aspects to consider is the cost of the 
school and financial aid. Much financing is 
administered directly from the graduate de­
partment or university, and should be sought 
after in the application process. Outside 
sources, such as fellowships and grants, are 
also available. Similar to undergraduate appli­
cations, graduate students seeking financial 
aid must fill out standardized financial need 
forms (i.e. Graduate and Professonal School 
Financial Aid Service, G APFAS, application) 
which will be evaluated by the university to 
determine financial need and determine eligi­
bility for such programs as grants and work 
study. Make sure you seek out all your options 
and apply to many and apply early.
Tau Beta Pi Engineering Honor Society is 
holding its Third Annual Carnegie Mellon 
Graduate School Conference tomorrow from 
3:00pm to 9:00pm in the Skibo Ballroom and 
in the Wherrett Room. This will give students 
an opportunity to seek out and talk to various 
graduate schools and get information. The 
Conference is open to all students of all majors 
and provides an opportunity for students to 
speak with representatives from various 
graduate and professional schools nationwide. 
Thirty-five schools are participating and in­
formation from approximately forty other 
schools will be available. General information 
concerning graduate school entrance exams, 
financial aid, fellowships, and applications 
will be provided by Career Services. In addi­
tion, guest speakers presenting various topics 
relating to choosing and enrolling in a gradu­
ate school are scheduled to speak.
The step to graduate school is a big one, but 
not one without its vast demands and rewards. 
A masters or doctorate degree can make the 
difference in future occupations, not to men­
tion the opportunities itopens. The whole key, 
though, is to consider your options and start 
gathering information today.
Autumn at CMU: 
Reminiscent of Noah?

---------------------------------------------------

September 22,1987—The Tartan—Page 13
Newly Appointed Corbett Reveals Intentions
By LISA McANANY
AgsI,aT7Ias; rnaIg,
fET7neE2s ae 2 Iu,E Tg,,gmun C,gE ;gML
u,sEusI1 ,uCu,,as; Ig1 2vvg,nas; Ig tuTeIu,He1 
­2s gCCava2y 2——gasIun Ig ,uvuaMu 2sn asMueIaL
;2Iu vgE—y2asIe E2nu Tp asnaMan72ye 2;2aseI 
2T7eue g, v2—,avag7e 2vIe gC —7Tyav gCCava2yeh’ 
's 2s asIu,Maum gs P,an2p1 4u—IuETu, wD1 F2s 
Ag,TuII1 ,uvusIyp s2Eun Ig ISu —geaIags gC 
fET7neE2s Tp 9,ueanusI bavS2,n Apu,I1 
uU—2snun gs Sae Maume gC eI7nusI yaCu 2I A2,suL
;au xuyygs 2sn Sae ,gyu as I,pas; Ig aE—,gMu aIh
82,I2sz Starting with the basics, why does 
Carnegie Mellon need an Ombudsman?
Ag,TuIIz As Ombudsman, I’ll basically be 
dealing with individual concerns, problems 
that particular students are having here. Most 
people don’t know who to talk to when they do 
have a problem. It’s hard to know who takes 
care of these things. The University is a big 
organization. I should also point out that this is 
not the only university with a student ombuds­
man. There are 15 or 20 others.
82,I2sz Can you name any of those others off 
hand?
Ag,TuIIz The University of Chicago comes to 
mind, and so does Cal Berkeley, although it 
might be a full-time position at Berkeley. One
student working on a part-time basis is not 
enough for the bigger schools.
82,I2sz This next question is a two-parter. 
What do you see as some of the salient issues 
facing CMU and CMU students and, related, 
what sorts of complaints do you anticipate 
getting from students?
Ag,TuIIz There are always grade problems 
and student services problems and complaints 
about registration. I’ll probably be getting lots 
of complaints about parking. I don’t expect to 
be dealing with bigger issues like the univer­
sity center or the new computer system. I’m not 
really sure what kinds of complaints I ’ 11 get. I’ll 
just have to deal with them as they come to me.
82,I2sz I’m curious about what your experi­
ence has been here at CMU. Are there any 
parti ular attitudes or qualifications that you are 
bringing to the job?
Ag,TuIIz This job is all about solving prob­
lems. I’m studying management and public 
policy so some of my course work is relevant. 
I’ve taken university accounting; I have expe­
rience with large organizations, so some of it’s 
general knowledge. I’ll also have a monthly 
meeting with President Cyert, so if I have fifty 
complaints about a big issue like parking, I’m 
not saying I can solve the problems, but I can 
register those 50 complaints, show some cause
Learn How to Learn More Effectively
By MARK SCMICK
82,I2s 4I2CCm,aIu,
A new (as in novel) workshop begins at 
Carnegie Mellon next week called i 37ueIags 
gC iv2nuEaveh The workshop is led by a group 
of faculty and students, from both CMU and 
Pitt, called “Action in Academia”. The 
workshop’s commitment is to present a meth­
odology, a process, for producing unusual and 
spectacular results in one’s academic life. 
And, these results are available to anyone who 
participates in the workshop, regardless of 
QPA level.
There isn’t a generic answer to the question: 
“What results can I expect out of this work­
shop?” A 37ueIags gC iv2nuEave operates at 
a personal level in the sense that different 
people apply themselves to the work of being 
a student in different ways. Where one student 
may have difficulty completing all of his/her 
homework, another student may have no prob­
lem in that area, yet wishes to use TAs and 
professors more effectively. A list of regrets 
might be the best “results guide”: jot down 
those regrets you experience consistently at 
the ends of semesters (I wish I’d done more 
homework, gone to all my classes, etc.), and 
the list generated will probably contain those 
major areas in which the workshop can make 
a difference.
Some exemplary results from participants in 
previous workshops:
• Completing more (or all) homework as­
signments.^
• Maintaining impeccable attendence in lec­
tures and recitations.
• Using TAs and professors more often, and 
more effectively.
• A willingness, even a demand to work in 
groups, rather than alone, as an individual.
• Redesigning one’s study environment so 
that it works.
• Cutting out video games(!). An unusual 
result perhaps, but one which made a differ­
ence!
So where do these results come from? What 
does the workshop do ? One way to illustrate 
the workshop is to first list those things which 
itwn’f:
• It isn’t a lecture: i 37ueIags gC iv2nuEave 
engages the participants in a workshop-type 
discussion. A lecture can happen in an empty
for action. When I was an RA, I got a lot of 
complaints about the university in general. 
Sure, I could fix a light bulb for you, but those 
weren’t the only complaints. I was also head 
resident, and was on P-SAC (the President’s 
Student Advisory Committee). P-SAC was a 
big part of the origin of this job. I think the P-
S AC sessions were really great, but they were 
too limited. I’ve been involved with the Qual­
ity of Life Committee, too. I think it’s been 
really useful, but I’m afraid of inaction. I’m 
afraid everyone will say, ‘That’s a really great 
idea,’ but they won’t do anything about it.
82,I2sz What do you see as the difference 
between your role and the role of other student 
leaders like Andy Robitshek, Student Govern­
ment President?
Ag,TuIIz The main difference is individual 
versus general issues. I’ll also do a lot of 
referral, listening to complaints and telling 
students who they should talk to. I want to work 
with Senate. Right now people bypass Senate. 
They don’t know what the [Senate] commit­
tees are. Also, I don’t have a set agenda. My 
agenda is whatever problems people bring to 
me. It is my recognized position to deal with 
these problems.
82,I2sz Aside from dealing with student 
complaints as they come to you, which,
granted, is more than enough to keep you busy 
for the twenty hours per week that you’ll be 
working as Ombudsman, do you have any 
particular goals or ambitions for the position?
Ag,TuIIz This position isan experiment, with 
the possibility of becoming a full-time posi­
tion. Part of my job is to eliminate my job. The 
goal is in May — I’ll have nothing to do. There 
will always be individual cases that need spe­
cial attention, but hopefully, the recurring 
problems won’t come to me, because people 
will know where to go on their own, without 
having to come to me first. People are also not 
well-informed, something I’d like to work on. 
The average student doesn’t know who the 
vice presidents are and what they do. I’ve 
posed that the different vice presidents take 
turns writing columns for The Tartan to let 
students know what’s going on, a “Vice 
President’s Comer” or something. So far 
everybody’s being very receptive. I’ll also try 
to get special office hours with the president 
beyond his usual hours, when a student has a 
problem that hasn’t been fairly dealt with 
anywhere else and the student and I need to 
meet with Dr. Cyert. My main power is that I’ll 
meet with the president; I obviously won’t be 
making the final decision on these problems 
myself.
room. i 37ueIags gC iv2nuEave cannot
• It does not give advice, information, or 
Ups and techniques on how to study.
The majority of students at CMU, by the 
simple fact of their presence here, already 
know what it takes to be an excellent student 
The workshop operates at the level of applica­
tion; converting what you already know about 
getting good grades into good grades. As the 
name implies, i 37ueIags gC iv2nuEave 
doesn’t concern itself with presenting infor­
mation. Rather, an investigation (a 37ueIagsL
as;- into the ways you operate as a student is 
created and mastered in the workshop, and re­
sults are generated out of this investigation.
The framework of the workshop is a four­
tiered, pyramidal structure:
I. Results
The foremost intention of the workshop is 
producing results for the participants, i.e. 
things happen, actions are taken, ways of 
operating as a student are redesigned.
II. Going Beyond Yourself
In order to generate an extraordinary result 
there’s ususally a need to “go beyond your­
self”; to do things you don’tordinarily do, use 
resources you haven’t used before, explore 
possibilities which you’ve only glanced at in 
the past
III. You Won’t Go Beyond Yourself By 
Yourself
Actually, people do go beyond themselves 
by themselves. Occasionally. But in the 
workshop, you go beyond yourself ,u;7y2,yp1 
vgseaeIusIyph Therefore, using other people 
becomes a necessity. Take as an example 
Harvard Law School. There the freshmen 
discover very quickly the importance of 
working in groups; the courseload leaves no 
alternative. They also discover that—wonder 
of wonders—working in groups is even fun!
IV. The Workshop Processes t
Finally, given the three previous tiers, the
workshop processes are the tools through 
which the participants’ results are con­
structed:
Talking: A specific quality of talking is used 
in the workshop which is focused, rigorous, 
and action-oriented. The practice of, and the 
possibility inherent in this “mode” of speak­
ing is developed over the course of the eight
continued on page 16
Females Feign Fatness
By BOB GLICKSTEIN
82,I2s 4I2CCm,aIu, 
Ace Journalist Bob Glickstein reporting 
to you from Carnegie Mellon University, in 
Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania.
When my editors told me, “Bob Glick­
stein, Ace Journalist, go out and compose 
an article concerning the roots of the current 
international weight craze,” I thought to 
myself, “Self,” I thought “take the conven­
tional route to this assignment and you’ll 
wind up with a half-column article that 
belongs on the ‘Trends’ page of 9ug—yu 
Magazine.” That wasn’t good enough for 
me, Ace Journalist Bob Glickstein. I re­
solved to get to the bottom—the very 
Su2,I—of this weight craze. But how?
I started by interviewing several of the 
young ladies with whom I am acquainted. 
One, who prefers to remain anonymous, 
remarked to me one day, “Bob Glickstein, 
Ace Journalist I feel terrible. I’m so over­
weight”
My keen reporter’s eye scanned her lithe 
form. “No, you’re not,” I insisted.
“Yes I am,” she continued with a sob. 
“And I diet and I exercise, and I just keep 
getting heavier.”
Later that same week I interviewed an­
other young lady, who also prefers to re­
main anonymous. She said, and I quote, 
“I’m so fat!”
I perused ha- supple figure with my hawk­
like gaze. “No, you’re not,” I ventured.
“Well, my bathroom scale disagrees with 
you!”
That evening, as I sat at home among my 
Journalist’s Paraphenalia, I considered the 
various interviews I had conducted, all of 
which had gone something like the two 
related above. “Something strange is going 
on,” my reporter’s sixth sense told me. 
“Trim young beauties are obsessed with 
their weight What can be causing it?” 
The editorial staff of this newspaper flew 
me to Washington D.C. the following day. 
Following a hunch, I visited Dr. Richard 
Schmutz, an expert in the field of sociologi­
cally trendy health concerns. He and I 
visited the ASuJ AS2Iu27 (literally, “House 
of Exorbitant Prices and Food Y ou Can Get 
at Dairy Queen”) restaurant after I men­
tioned the size of my expense account 
generously provided by this newspaper. 
Over lunch, I related my peculiar observa­
tions to him.
“Doesn’t surprise me in the least” he said 
through a mouthful of expensive food. “In 
fact, my measurements indicate that on the 
average, my patients have indeed gotten 
heavier over the last ten years.” He patted 
his modest paunch. “So have I, in fact I 
really shouldn’tbeeating this. I’m on adiet 
But did you say you were buying...?”
My mind reeled. A top expert in the field, 
himself caught up in the neurosis which he 
purports to study! It was at this point that I
continued on page 16

---------------------------------------------------

Page 14—The Tartan—September 22,1987
Study Abroad Made EasyIns Kino...
The Modem Language Department will be sponsoring a Ger­
man Film Festival to run throughout the year. All films begin at 
7pm in Porter Hall 100 (Gregg Hall) and are free. These films 
are in German with printed English sub-titles. The schedule of 
films is as follows:
•Wednesday, September 23,1987 - DER ARZT VON STALIN­
GRAD (1957)
•Wednesday, October 28, 1987-DIE STANDARTE (1977)
•Wednesday, January 20, 1988 - DIE ERSTE POLKA (1978)
•Wednesday, March 16, 1988 - DEUTSCHLAND-BLEICHE 
MUTTER (1979)
Who’s New at the Health Center?
By LILLY MONSOUR AND 
SHIZUKA OTAKE
82,I2s 4I2CCm,aIu,e
Studying abroad—somehow that seems to 
conjure up images of partying all night in some 
hot European night club, drinking a lot of wine 
(after all, most of Europe has no drinking age), 
and basically living it up. For the paranoid 
species it brings to mind being surrounded by 
sophisticated Europeans who see you as the 
“dumb American” and being stuck in a class 
taught completely in a foreign language.
Actually it’s all a civilized, well organized 
system that involves studying and living in a 
foreign country, and learning to adjust and 
absorb a foreign culture. On the practical side 
(this is the argument to give to the parents) it 
adds to your value as a future employee—it 
looks good on your resume.
Traditionally, studying abroad means spend­
ing junior year in a foreign university on an 
exchange program. This is a kind of student 
trading: some kids from a school in the U.S. go 
to a foreign university and kids from there 
come to an American university. It works out 
that each student pays the tuition of his own 
school.
Besides exchange programs with your 
school there are two other ways to study 
abroad junior year. (This doesn’t include 
summer opportunities.) If your school doesn’t 
have the exact program you want - you can 
enroll through another university that does. 
This usually involves taking a leave of absence 
from your school, enrolling in the other school, 
then going abroad in their exchange program. 
Its not as complex as it sounds - it’s really just 
more paperwork.
The most rewarding and most difficult way to 
study abroad is independent study. You can
only do this if you are very proficient in the 
language of the country to which you want to 
go. Independent study means you apply and 
enroll in a foreign university on your own, 
take a leave of absence and attend that school.
If you choose this road, you’re responsible 
for your own paperwork— finding housing, 
etc. You will be treated like any other student 
enrolled in that university, and all classes will 
be in the native language. This is definitely the 
best experience because you are completely 
on your own and you will absorb the culture. 
There’s also the possibility thatall the compli­
cations will drive you crazy—so this inde­
pendent study option is only if you’re really 
dedicated.
Of course, there are some basip require­
ments. First you have to be in “good academic 
standing.” If you’re not failing or on academic 
probation you’re fine.
Most programs involving study abroad op­
portunities during the academic year or se­
mester are only open to juniors. However, 
there are various summertime opportunities to 
take off and see the world, most of which offer 
the perfect combination of foreign study and 
vacation travel. Options range from independ­
ent study under the guidance of the home insti­
tution, programs sponsored by a consortium 
of U.S. institutions, work opportunities and 
internships which combine study with work 
experience.
Study, work and travel abroad sessions are 
available throughout the world from the 
Middle East to Australia with ones in Europe 
being the most-liked and most accessible. The 
programs are open to persons of all ages and 
run from 3 weeks to 3 months.
Most summer study options are geared to-
continued on page 15
PITTSBURGH- The search for a physician 
to lead the medical services team at Student 
Health ended in July. Dr. Judith Esman has 
been hired as a permanent member of the 
Health Services staff. Dr. Esman arrived at 
CMU after completing a residency program 
in internal medicine at the University if Pitts­
burgh Heatlth Sciences Center. A graduate of 
Cornell University’s pre-med program, she 
received her medical degree from Cornell 
University Medical College. She has been the 
recipient of many academic awards including 
New York Regent’s Scholarship, Senior Stu­
dent Award for Excellence in Psychiatry and 
the Senior Women -Student Award in Public
Health. As part of her medical training, she 
participated in a hematology rotation at 
Hadassah Hospital in Jerusalem.
Another new member of the health care 
team is Judi Ann Allgeier. Judi has been a 
registered nurse for 11 years. She has experi­
ence in critical care, administration and out­
patient care. Judi has a special interest in 
health education of diabetics and young 
adults.
Other members of the Health Service staff 
who continue to serve the student population 
are: Anita Barkin, Nurse Practitioner; Shirley 
McClure, R.N.; Albe Webb, R.N.; and Elaine 
Ryan receptionist.

---------------------------------------------------

September 22,1987—The Tartan—Page 15
AIESEC, CIEE: They Can Help You Go Abroad
continued from page 14
wards intensive language training, and they 
focus on equipping the participant with a true 
understanding of the country’s culture. These 
programs provide the invaluable experience 
of meeting colorful people with diverse ideas. 
It may be shocking at first and lonely, but the 
rewards of being exposed to a different culture 
will enable you to develop mentally and add 
mystery and spice to your life.
Last summer at CMU, two four-week sum­
mer programs, organized by the European 
Studies Department, were held in Paris, 
France and Rothenburg, Germany. Before 
travelling, students went through a 3-week in­
tensive language program here on campus 
(credit was granted). The program consisted of 
language instruction combined with excur­
sions to neighboring cities, towns, and visits to 
labs and industries.
CMU plans to hold the summer program 
again this year. Participating in these pro­
grams is an extremely beneficial experience as 
credit is earned while it enables you to learn 
about a different country and its people- the 
ultimate vacation experience. The only prob­
lem with travelling with a group of people; 
however, is that they do tend to cluster to­
gether and this makes it difficult to really get 
to know the natives and learn about the culture. 
Members of the group should sometimes go 
out and explore on their own.
Surprisingly enough, the cost of living 
abroad is not as high as people assume and in 
many countries it’s lower than in the U.S. 
Study abroad often seems so costly because of 
the air fare. Some language programs allow 
summer students to live on the campus. If this 
is not possible there are always youth hostels 
and opportunities to live with a family.
Some people, however, cannot afford the
cost of travelling abroad to study as much as 
they would love to. In these instances, many 
search for emplyment abroad and study on the 
side or just travel around and pick up the 
language on the way. Although it may sound 
like the ideal solution for the money conscious 
and independent, it is not only difficult to work 
abroad but also illegal in many countries due to 
foreign labor laws which require certain pre­
requisites such as work permits.
Work programs do exist though, for stu­
dents, trainees, and volunteers, although in­
stead of a salary room and board become the 
wage. The Council on International Educa­
tional Exchange sponsors several programs 
offering foreign work experience through 
which U.S. university students can arrange for 
temporary jobs in Britain, New Zealand, Ger­
many, Ireland, France and Costa Rica. There 
are also International Volunteer Service Proj­
ects in Western Europe, Canada, and the U.S. 
To obtain information about these programs 
write to CIEE, 205 East 42nd St., NY, NY 
10017.
Students interested in training for a certain 
job or learning a skill can apply for a trainee or 
internship program abroad. Most programs
Phene- 363
16 INCH PEPPERONI PIZZA $4.*°tox
Saturday 11 am - 2 am 
Sunday through Friday 3 pm - 2 am
It's time to go "Back to School" at 
PITTSBURGH BEAUTY ACADEMY'S 
GRADUATE DIVISION
Present your Student I.D. and receive Special Discounts in:
SHAMPOO, HAIRCUT & STYLE...............................................$2.25
EUROPEAN FACIALS.......................................................$3.00 to 3.75
WAXING & HAIR REMOVAL.......................................$1.50 and UP
MAKEOVERS..................................................................................$1.50
ETHNIC CURLS..............................................................$17.50 to 19.95
SCULPTURED NAILS................................................$12.50
DESIGNS....................................................................................75</nail
AIRBRUSHING.........................................................................$1.25/na
myTo schedule an appointment, simply call (412) 471 -1711 ^ y
PITTSBURGH BEAUTY ACADEMY GRADUATE DIVISION 
415 Smithfied 
Street Pittsburgh, PA 15222
(Across from Kaufmann's Parking Garage)
last from a few months to one year and usually 
cover living expenses. They usually require a 
year or two of college. One association that has 
an organization on CMU campus is AIESEC. 
AIESEC sets up job exchanges in 56 countries 
for students in economics and business man­
agement. For more information call their of­
fice at extension 3515.
Finding a study abroad program with the 
right classes can be difficult. There seems to be 
some myth that a counselor hands you the 
perfect program as you explain what you 
want. On rare occasions that happens, but in 
most cases you have to research on your own. 
You have to leaf through catalogs, send away 
for specific information and find the right pro­
gram.
The first thing to do after you find a program 
you want is to go to your academic advisor and 
make sure you can get credit for the courses 
you would take.
Once everything is cleared and you’ve been 
accepted into a program you should start pre­
paring yourself for living abroad. Contact 
CIEE (Council on International Educational 
Exchange) and get yourself an International 
Student Identification Card. This is good for
one year and it will get you special discounts 
on concerts, theater travel and practically 
everything else. Then you should check if you 
need a special student visa by calling the 
embassy of the country you will be living in. 
Also check with the public health department 
about what vaccination certificates you may 
need.
After you handle all the essentials, start read­
ing up on the country you plan to visit Study 
some history, geography and try to get a feel 
for the place. Also, study American geography 
history and current events. A lot of people in 
other countries tend to be well-informed on 
American news and often expect to discuss it 
which leaves many Americans embarrassed 
when they realize that their foreign friends are 
much more knowledgeable about the U.S. 
than they are.
Also, remember that besides Europe there 
are other countries like Japan, China and some 
third world countries that have exchange, 
study abroad options. The best thing about 
study and travel abroad opportunities is that 
there is a program for everyone depending on 
their interests, majors and goals. So whether 
you’re studying art in Italy or German in 
Rothenburg, the experience of foreign travel is 
one you will not want to pass up.
Helping students out at CMU is Chrisdane D. 
Huckin, the Coordinator for International 
Education who is presently located in Warner 
Hall. She can be reached at x7595 for an 
appointment. Ms. Huckin has watched student 
interest grow steadily in foreign programs and 
she enthusiastically encourages students to 
drop by because she stresses the importance of 
being culturally aware of the world of which 
you are a part— “We no longer deal nation­
ally, we deal internationally.”
BBN IS 
TELLING GRADUATES 
WHERE TO GO...
SB—1
Slfk
For exciting careers, 
challenges, growth, 
and opportunities to 
work with clients and «
technologies that are 1
eclipsing the rest of the '
world. You could be 
working with some of the 
sharpest scientific minds 
in the areas of artificial 
intelligence, communi­
cations, life sciences, 
educational technology,
’ environmental and 
\ underwater acoustics, 
simulation and training 
systems, and a host of 
others.
So if you're an E.E.,
C.S., Applied Math or 
Physical Sciences Graduate 
(or soon to be one), we'd 
like a chance to tell you 
where to go. We are an 
Equal Opportunity 
Employer M/F/V/H.
BBN Volumoeum82, Is4umCumoe2a
A Subsidiary of Bolt Beranek and Newman Inc.
Come to our interview 
at CMU on October 1st.

---------------------------------------------------

Page 16—The Tartan—September 22,1987
Corpulence Conspiracy Confounds Curious Correspondent
continued from page 13
first began to suspect a conspiracy.
The next day, I picked up a rental car and 
drove out to Silver Spring, Maryland, to visit 
the factory of the Weigh-o, Weigh-o Measur­
ing Device Corporation. Disguising myself as 
an assembly line worker, I entered the plant and 
slipped a real worker a fifty to allow me to take 
his place on the assembly line. The scales 
rolling past me were identical to those used by 
several of the women I had interviewed back in 
Pittsburgh. At a convenient moment I took a 
representative scale off the conveyor belt into 
a sheltered comer.
All good journalists must have a working 
knowledge of absolutely everything, and I, 
Ace Journalist Bob Glickstein, am no excep­
tion. Carefully examining the insides of the 
scale, I determined that the source of the con­
spiracy was not the Weigh-o, Weigh-o Meas­
uring Device Corporation. Their scales, I 
deemed, were accurate and true. My hunch— 
that the scale-makers were slowly trying to 
cause a weight panic by giving false readings 
to their customers—had panned out.
When I returned to my hotel room, I noticed 
a scale in my bathroom, where none had been 
there before. There was a note attached to it. It 
read, “You are right—there ae a conspiracy. 
Try the scale.” The note was not signed. I 
stripped and stepped on the scale. I was 
shocked by what it registered—ten pounds 
greater than my correct weight! Of course, it 
had been ages since I had last weighed myself, 
but all journalists should maintain their bodies 
in perfect physical condition, and I, Bob Glick- 
stein, am no exception. My height and build 
dictated a smaller weight than that which the 
scale registered. The scale was a Weigh-o, 
Weigh-o model. Having determined that their 
scales were accurate and true, I realized that the 
conspiracy had to originate—someplace else. 
Where? If the scale: themselves weren’t lying 
to the weight-con« ;ious, then who was? I 
wondered what I ha gotten myself into. This 
conspiracy looked bi/—real big. While trying 
to reckon who could be responsible for the 
increasing scale readii g, a crazy theory started 
forming in my mind I slept fitfully that night 
in anticipation of testing my theory the follow­
ing day.
I surprised myself that night by realizing I 
was worrying about my weight Should I diet? 
Should I exercise more often? I forced these 
notions out of my head—worrying was just 
what they m2sIun me to do. Whoever was 
causing this international weight anxiety con- 
troled a powerful drug indeed if I, Ace Reporter 
Bob Glickstein, had nearly succumbed.
I checked out of the hotel the next morning 
and flew immediately to Fargo, North Dakota, 
and to the office of Dr. Henry Ladebak, the 
internationally renowned diet doctor and au­
thor of the bestselling 'HE P2I1 “g7H,u P2I 
trilogy. Before entering his office, I stuffed a 
towel inder my shirt, posing as a patient.
“Dr. Ladebak,” I said after he and I ex­
changed greetings. “I’m terribly overweight. 
What can I do?”
“Sit down, Mr. Glickstein,” he said, observ­
ing my makeshift paunch. ‘Thanks to the 
Ladebak Almost-Instantaneous Weight-Loss 
Diet, I can have you down to a trim 150 before 
the week is through. Do you wish to submit 
yourself to my program?”
I told him that I would submit myself. After 
he explained that it wouldn’t be easy, and that 
I’d have to be extremely dedicated, he excused 
himself to go fetch the necessary documents 
for me to sign.
I took the oppurtunity of my solitude in his 
office to search through his top desk drawer. 
What I found there turned out to be exactly 
what I had been looking for. A returned, 
cancelled check, in the amount of $ 1500, made 
out to ‘The International Diet Doctors’ Profit 
Conspiracy Fund”. I quickly noted that the 
bank at which the sum had been deposited was 
in northern Saskatchewan. I closed the desk 
drawer, sat down and removed the towel from 
beneath my shirt, stuffing it in the bottom of 
Ladebak’s wastebasket.
When Dr. Ladebak returned, he remarked on 
my sudden weight loss. He charged me $150.
I wasted no time in flying to Saskatoon, the 
capital of Saskatchewan, Canada, from there I 
hired a dog sled and a guide. Together we 
reached the tiny, frozen Canadian town of 
Muckbec. With the aid of some of the locals, 
I was able to located the First Bank of Muck­
bec. I received a warm greeting when I entered 
the bank.
“How can we help you, Mr. Glickstein?” 
asked the bank’s vice-president, Donald 
McRonald.
“Could you give me directions to the Interna­
tional Diet Doctors’ Profit Conspiracy Organi­
zation? I understand they have an account at 
this bank.”
Mr. McRonald flipped through a Rolodex. 
“Ah, yes,” he said, pulling a card from the file. 
“The IDDPCO. They’re located on Snow 
Road.”
I thanked the bank officer and hurried off to 
Snow Road. When I reached the IDDPCO, a 
fascinating sight greeted my eyes. The small 
brick building in which the organization was 
located had a smokestack of some sort atop it. 
But this was no ordinary smokestack. This 
massive concrete chute extended vertically 
from the building, tethered to the ground by 
thousands of cables. The top of this pillar was 
literally out of sight—on a clear day. It must 
have been hundreds of miles high.
It looked like my crazy theory was turning out 
to be right.
I entered the IDDPCO Building, essentially 
a low blockhouse. I was met in the vestibule by 
a uniformed guard, who asked if he could help 
me.
“Do you have any tours here?” I asked inno­
cently.
“Sorry,’’said the guard. “This is a conspiracy 
organization, and we can ’ t let anybody inside. ”
I told him I quite understood, then I asked if 
I could see the man in charge. A moment later, 
a bespectacled, bearded man in a long white lab 
coat emerged from some inner room and shook 
my hand. We introduced ourselves, he as “Dr. 
John Smith”.
“I’m a curious passerby who’d like to see the 
inside of this facility,” I told him.
“I’m afraid that’s impossible. We have secret 
conspiratorial things going on here.”
I pounced. “Aha!” I said. “And I know just 
what kinds of things, too. I’m Ace Joumalsit 
Bob Glickstein on an investigative assign­
ment!”
“Dr. Smith” had, of course, heard of me, and 
he panicked. Before I knew it, the guard had hit 
me over the head from behind.
When I came to, I was tied to a chair in an 
unfamiliar room. The guard who had clubbed
me was opening a small steel door in a brick 
wall. The door, I realized, opened into the side 
of the sky scraping pillar which came straight 
thtough the building and extended down into 
the Earth. If my theory was right, the bottom of 
that chute was thousands of miles under­
ground.
I noticed “Dr. Smith” standing off to one side. 
“If you put me in there, you’ll just be making 
it harder on yourself,” I said suavely.
“No one will ever find you,’ said Dr. Smith.
“But they’ll find pg7’ I said. “My editors 
know everything about your operation that I 
know.”
“You know nothing.”
“You’re wrong,” I told him. “You see, Doc­
tor, your mistake was in underestimating a 
member of the press. A good reporter must be 
well-versed in all areas of knowledge, and I, 
Ace Journalist Bob Glickstein, am no excep­
tion. In particular, I have an excellent grasp of 
physics. When I learned that people’s bath­
room scales were accurate, I realized that 
people must really be geting heavier—but they 
weren’t gaining any mass. That’s when I real­
ized that the force of gravity itself was being 
increased—and this could only be done by 
funnelling interstellar matter into the center of 
the Earth to increase the planet’s density. That 
is the purpose of your enormous ‘smoke­
stack’.”
“Dr. Smith” hung his head. “It’s true,” he 
said, sobbing.
“My disappearance will give you more 
trouble than you’ve already got—so I suggest 
you come quietly, ‘Dr. Smith’.”
After I was untied I made a formal Citizen’s 
Arrest of “Dr. Smith”, who told me defeatedly 
(as I was binding him with my spare Investiga­
tive Journalist’s Handcuffs) that his real name 
was “Myron Schneebaum”. I was met outside 
the IDDPCO by the Royal Canadian Mounted 
Guard, who took over in rounding up the 
personnel of the station. I returned to Pitts­
burgh to resume classes—triumphant as ever. 
And to tell the women of America: “Don’t 
worry, girls. It’s not your thighs. It was all a big 
plot to increase the pull of gravity.”
This is Ace Journalist Bob Glickstein, sign­
ing off from Carnegie Mellon University in 
Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania.
Improve Your Academics: Register for Free Workshop
continued from page 13
sessions.
Group work: The main body of work­
shop participants is broken up into 
smaller groups of 4-5 members each, in 
the first session. These groups meet 
once a week between sessions to do the 
(weekly) workshop homework and the 
“work” of the workshop—creating the 
results you demand for the quality of 
your education.
Registering for i 37ueIags gC iv2L
nuEavez
The workshop consists of 8 sessions, 
and is free of charge to CMU students, 
regardless of major, class or QPA level. 
Registration cards are available at 
Ski bo Information Desk, and the work­
shop is scheduled as follows:
STARTING DATE: Tuesday, Sep­
tember 29th
TIMES: 2 hours for the first session 
(4:30pm-6:30pm) and 1 1/2 hours for 
subsequent sessions (4:30pm-6:00pm).
If you have any further questions, 
contact Mark Schmick at x5446, or 
send mail to ms5p@andrew.
Run, and Celebrate!
Added feature to Great RaceDress-Up,
PITTSBURGH — Costumed college stu­
dents running the September 27 Great Race 
will attract more than just attention. In fact, a 
concert by the award-winning country rock 
group Bootleg awaits the “best college indi­
vidual/group” in the Pittsburgh race’s first- 
ever “Great Costume Competition”.
Contestants must complete the entire 10K 
(6.2 mile) race in costume on Sunday, Septem­
ber 27 and attend competition judging the 
night before at the Warner Premiere’s pre-race 
party in Warner Centre, downtown Pittsburgh. 
The college category is open to all interested 
students, not only those affiliated with a cam­
pus organization. For more information on 
registration or the costume event, call (412) 
255-2493.
The free Warner party, from 9 pm to 1 am, 
includes costume judging at 10 pm- A celeb­
rity panel, including local luminaries and 
Miller Lite All-Star and ex-Baltimore Colts 
quarterback Bert Jones, will make the selec­
tions. In addition, a pasta party, offered for a 
nominal charge, precedes the festivities from
6 to 9 pm at the Warner Premiere.
Other competition categories and prizes 
include: “best individual”. Miller Lite running 
outfit; and “bets group” (two or more), Papil- 
lon restaurant gift certificate.
Winners will be announced at the post-race 
awards ceremony and celebration at the Pitts­
burgh Hilton and Towers on the 27th. To be 
eligible for prizes, runners must complete the 
entire 10K race, which begins in Frick Park in 
Squirrel Hill and concludes at Point State Park 
in downtown Pittsburgh. At 8 am —an hour 
before the race—contestants are asked to 
gather at the Frick Nature Center (near the
starting line) for a group photo.
As for the race, runners can still register for 
$ 12 through September 21 (mail) and Septem­
ber 21 - 26 (at package pick-up, Kaufmann’s). 
Registration entitles each runner to an official 
Great Race t-shirt, gym bag and other accesso­
ries.

---------------------------------------------------

Q>
<D
r2nn 
guiiMs84oe8us, 
U2,2om4v
Communications is our middle name
We’re the central research 
and technology source for 
the Bell operating compa­
nies. Our areas of inspired 
research cover software 
development, applied 
research, network information 
systems, systems engineering, 
network planning services 
and equipment assessment.
We have opportunities in our 
northern and central New 
Jersey facilities for individuals 
with BS, MS and PhD degrees 
in Computer or Electrical 
Engineering or Computer 
Science who can help us 
provide superior technology 
and implement strategies that 
will allow the Bell operating 
companies to deliver 
advanced systems to their 
customers. We’re also looking 
for creative talent with PhD 
degrees in Mathematics,
Statistics, Operations 
Research, Physics or Human 
Factors Engineering.
Working in the future is the 
place to be—if you would 
like to join us,
Sign up at the 
Career Planning & 
Placement Office to 
meet our recruiters 
on campus,
October 14 & 15
Alternatively, send your 
resume detailing your 
education and experience 
to: Manager, Technical 
Employment, Bell 
Communications Research, 
Department 127/5438/87, 
4B-130, CN 1300, Piscataway, 
NJ 08854. An equal 
opportunity employer.

---------------------------------------------------

HELP AT CRITICAL TIMES
CMU Counseling & Student Development Center 268- 2922
After 5:00 pm, an answering service operator will help you reach the staff 
member on call.
CONTACT Pittsburgh................................................................ 782-4023
24 hour telephone counseling, crisis intervention, and supportive listening
Drug Connection....................................................................... 854-0700
An alcohol/drug crisis hotline, 5 - 9 pm
Tel-Aid........................................................................................ 281-4664
A Series of taped information on medical, legal, consumer, and safety issues. 
Lists of titles appear in the blue pages of the Pittsburgh telephone directory.
Counseling and Student Development Center, a division of Student Affairs
WALK-IN TUTORING 
FREE - NO APPOINTMENT NECESSARY 
SUNDAY THROUGH THURSDAY 
7:00 -10:00 P.M.
CALCULUS PH 107-A
PHYSICS PH 107-B
CHEMISTRY PH 225-B
INTRO. TO COMPUTING WeH 5415
ECONOMICS PH 126-C
ACADEMIC WRITING PH 126-C
Sponsored by Counseling & Student Development 
Center and Student Affairs.
Cimini Hair Design
2 Blocks from CMU
406 South Craig St. Oakland 
Phone: 621-HAIR
HAIR CUT 
10 BUCKS!!
Walk-ins Welcome
“The Best Place In Town For A Wing Out!”
Mike Kalina-Pgh. Press
CALL:421-WING
Our Ribs?
r2,e 8s ev2 g8ety
qx2,a2saHe Ag2eI IgWAg2eI Fasas; O7an2
RIB HOUSE
Ribs • Chicken • Barbecue
2125MURRAYAVENUE
Sp2m o bu12s 9oM42, 7mui F8naEF8na eu b2oev 9oM42AA
Open 3:30 p.m. T-H till 10 
. F-S till 11 
Open Sundays • till 8
30
30
30.

---------------------------------------------------

September 22,1987—The Tartan—Page 19
PHI Player of the Game
Hensel Shows Flashes of 1985 Form
By NEIL GREENBLUM
82,I2s AgsI,aT7Ias; rnaIg,
There could be quite a blast off at South High 
Stadium this Saturday evening. Carnegie 
Mellon’s “Man from Mars” was just revving 
up his engines in the Tartans’ 13-12 victory 
over Case Western.
Tartan quarterback Mike Hensel, a fifth-year 
senior from Mars, Pa., was named Panther 
Hollow Inn (PHI) Player of the Game Satur­
day for shades of the form that earned him 
President’s Athletic Conference (PAC) Most 
Valuable Offensive Player honors as a junior 
in 1985. Hensel gained 159 yards in total 
offense and ran for both Tartan touchdowns in 
Carnegie Mellon’s muddy win at Tech Field 
on Diskette Day.
The 6' 2" 180 lb. Mars Area HS graduate led
the Tartan rushing attack with 62 yards on 16 
carries, plus a pair of one yard scoring dives in 
the second quarter. Hensel also completed 
nine of 20 passes for 97 yards while being 
intercepted twice. Clearly, not outstanding 
numbers, but Hensel, who has only lost six of
23 games he’s started for the Tartans, got the 
job done.
Hensel, however, was not as satisfied. “I 
haven’t played really well yet. I’m still getting 
back into it.”
The veteran QB is referring to the neck and 
knee injuries he sustained in last year’s 
Duquesne game. The head-on collision with a 
Duke defensive back in the fourth quarter of 
the Tartans 33-22 victory put Hensel on the 
shelf for the rest of the 1986 season. Doctors 
feared the nerve-related injury might be ca­
reer-ending, but they gave Hensel the green 
light late last spring.
Hensel said the layoff hasn’t affected him 
psychologically or physically, but it has set 
him back on Saturdays. “My knee’s been fine 
when I run, and I think I’ve been running as 
well as ever. The problem I’ve been having is 
not having that game feel I used to have, but 
it’s starting to come back,” Hensel remarked. 
Another adjustment the 1986 Football News 
pre-season All-American has had to make 
involves his backfield mates. Tartan Offen­
sive Coordinator Rich Erdelyi rotated six dif­
ferent halfbacks the last two weeks, and 
Hensel had only played with two of them 
before this season: senior Bill Heiser, a fellow 
co-captain, and junior Rob Patterson.
“We’ve all had to adjust,” noted Hensel. “We 
only started practicing rotating running backs 
the Thursday before the Allegheny game. The 
rotating affects the offense’s rhythm, and the 
slightest variation can mess a play up, espe­
cially in a critical situation. I think it might be 
better to alternate backs by series, but it is 
starting to work out fine.”
The Carnegie Mellon offense in general is 
beginning to work out fine, too. The Tartans' 
first touchdown drive was only 46 yards in 11 
plays, “but it was the first drive of the year 
where we really took the ball down field,” 
Hensel asserted. “Last week we had several 
10-or-more play drives but we really didn’t 
move the ball. And we didn’t score.”
The Tartans second scoring drive was even 
better, 15 plays covering 89 yards and over 
eight minutes. “Both drives were a real shot in 
the arm for us,” the senior added. “Inconsis­
tency has been our biggest problem. For how 
young our team is, we’re really starting to 
come together.”
From Hensel’s perspective, the 1987 Tartans 
are a very different team from last season’s 
squad. “Last year was an ideal situation. We 
had 17 or 18 seniors, many of them starters, 
and were a very experienced team. Coming 
into camp this summer, we knew we were 
young. Development has been different”
“As a young team, we’re making little inex­
perienced mistakes. Freshmen need to make 
mistakes to learn from them. This way they’ll 
be able to step right in when the offense gels. 
With time they’re going to mature.”
The ever-maturing Hensel continues to boost 
his outstanding career numbers. With his 18th 
passing attempt Saturday, he became Carne­
gie Mellon’s fourth all-time leader in pass 
attempts with 382, surpassing Bill Kiselick 
(381, 1979-1982). Against Allegheny last 
week Hensel moved into fourth-place in ca­
reer completions, ahead of Kiselick ( 183), and 
will move up to third, ahead of Jay Duquette 
(213,1973-1976), with his twelfth completion 
against the Dukes Saturday.
Duquesne has been a difficult opponent 
physically for the 1985 first-team all-PAC, 
second-team all-district, Tartan field general. 
He scraped and bruised both legs on South 
High Stadium’s artificial turf two years ago, 
and suffered quite a concussion from last 
season’s run-in. But Hensel says he’s not 
going to change his game plan for Saturday in 
any way, with one exception. “I’m not going 
to try to run over anyone this time.”
9”'1 ygv2Iun *7eI gMu, ISu Pg,Tue iMus7u 
j,an;u1 2m2,ne 2 5w( ;aCI vu,IaCav2Iu Ig ISu 
g7IeI2snas; 82,I2s as u2vS muu.He ;2Eu1 2e 
vSgeus Tp tbA8 2sn 8Su 82,I2sh
Cross-Country 
4th at Indiana
By RICH SHIPLEY
82,I2s 4I2CCm,aIu,
The men’s cross-country team faired 
well last Saturday at the Indiana Univer­
sity of Pa. Invitational. The squad fin­
ished fourth overall, first among Division
III schools. IUP took first place honors 
and was followed by Shippensburg Uni­
versity and California State University of 
Pa.
Head Coach Gary Meckley felt that the 
team could have done much better had 
they used all of the A-team runners. Due 
to sickness and/or injuries Meckley de­
cided not to run four of the top seven 
Tartan runners. They include #1 runner 
Keith Stopen, #2 Dave Supp, #4 Lenny 
O’Neal? and last year’s #6 man Tom 
Ford. Meckley felt that if all of these men 
had run, they could have easily taken 
third overall, and could have been very 
close to IUP and Shippensburg. How­
ever, he felt that the tourney wasn't im­
portant enough to risk losing top runners 
for later meets.
The top finisher for the Tartans was Pat 
Noll who took eleventh place overall. He 
ran the sloppy 5.1 mile course in a time of 
27:30. Gary Meeker led the rest of the 
Tartans in as Gary Harrison, Kevin 
Helm, Dan Holland, Don Kenafly, and 
Paul Camine helped the Tartans to finish 
fourth among seventeen schools.
Meckley has a very optimistic outlook 
towards the rest of the season. He feels 
that as long as the Tartans can fight off 
sickness and injuries, this year’s team 
could be even better than last year’s.
? *
High Holiday Events TECH B' nai B'rith Hillel
NIACL OP R USIF hurH sdrHdadH
yEaaIS dC ,cadE ,cSECH sEttIt 
obeLe A1 9urC R 8oLOo 
7u110aEC: NISFE9Ir dC -ECC 4bPe A1 
,dttSuu1 R kEttEd1 -ECC iaEua
NIACL OB R hurH sdrHdadH
7u110aEC: NISFE9Ir dC -ECCb lbee d1 
,dttSuu1 R kEttEd1 -ECC iaEua 
hImuS1 rISFE9Ir dC 7nib Webee d1 
NfEwu sdtt kHISSICC huu1
NIACL Oo R hurH sdrHdadH
7u110aEC: NISFE9Ir dC -ECCb lbee d1 
pROB 7dCHIvSdt um .IdSaEa*
&9CL O R Dut gEvSI
yEaaIS dC ,cadE ,cSECH sEttIt 
obee A1 9urC R 8oLOo 
7u110aEC: rISFE9Ir dC -ECCb 4bPe A1
&9CL P R qu1 DEAA0S
7u110aEC: rISFE9Ir dC -ECCb lbee d1 
,dttSuu1 R kEttEd1 -ECC iaEua 
hImuS1 rISFE9Ir dC 7nib Webee d1 
NfEwu sdtt R kHISSICC huu1
BREAK-THE-FAST at Hillel
Vbee A1 9urC R 8PLoe
Any student, faculty member or staff can go to any campus 
service * Families with small children welcome. Home 
hospitality and info regarding city synagogues available at Hillel.
Reservations for meals - 621-8875 
160 N. Craig St. Suite 110 
Pittsburgh, PA 15213

---------------------------------------------------

Page 20—The Tartan—September 22,1987
Soccer Squad Shutout By John CarrollPirates Escape Cellar
continued from page 21By JUDY GROSSMAN
82,I2s 4I2CCu, aIu,
The Tartan soccer team, playing without 
senior co-captain Kevin Jung and four 
other injured starters, lost a tough game to 
John Carroll University Friday, 1-0. In 
between rain showers and gusting winds 
at Tech Field, the teams battled Fiercely in 
a physical game. There were 47 total 
fouls, 23 of those called against CMU.
It was a goalkeeper’s battle between the 
Tartans’ John Semler and JCU goalie 
Rich Bonitz. Semler went down in the 
first half after a three-man collision on the 
goal line. Semler remained in the game, 
however, and recorded eight saves.
The first half was scoreless. Both teams 
failed to capitalize on scaring chances. 
Tartan Coach Nick Gaudioso said, “We 
concentrated on playing good defense and 
hoped that things would go our way.”
The Blue Streaks finally scored with six
minutes left in the game. Sophomore for­
ward Jim Sturznickel took a pass from 
teammate Mike Mangol and converted it 
into what proved to be the game-winning 
goal. Sturznickel’s ground-ball kick beat 
the diving Semler to his right side.
Part of the Tartans’ problem was their 
shooting, or lack of it. Carnegie Mellon 
recorded only five shots on goal while John 
Carroll took nine. The Tartans had only 
three comer kicks to the Blue Streak’s 10.
Gaudioso said that the game went pretty 
much as expected. “We figured it would be 
a one-goal game. We’re just missing too 
many people.”
The loss dropped the Tartans to 1-3 over­
all. In losing to John Carroll, the Tartans 
lost their first game in President’s Athletic 
Conference play.
The Tartans’ next game will be on Wed­
nesday, September 23, when they travel to 
Allegheny to play the Gators at 4:00 p.m.
to see?
Certainly there was a large contingent of 
Mets fans on hands, rooting the New Yorkers 
on in their chase of the Cardinals. Many may 
have come see to the Kiner ceremonies. The 
retirement of the slugging outfielder’s #4, al­
though decades overdue, was very well done.
What the Pirate honchos were hoping Pitts­
burgh was coming out to see was the resurgent 
Buccos. There was disappointment heard in 
the front office when few more than 5,000 fans 
turned out to welcome the Pirates home after a 
sparkling 7-2 road swing. But the crowds 
increased as the weekend rolled around, top­
ping 15,000 Friday and climbing even higher 
Saturday evening.
Games like those the Pirates played this 
weekend also help at the gate. The Bucs ruined 
John Candelaria’s homecoming Friday night 
with a 10-9 victory saved with a strike-em-out, 
throw-em-out double play to quench a 9th
inning Mets rally. Saturday evening, Pitts­
burgh battled back from a 3-run deficit with 
late inning attempts but fell a run short in the 
end. And a more exciting game that Sundays' 
four-comeback victory would be hard to find.
Interestingly, Pittsburgh’s biggest need 
could be answered by a player just like the 
honored Ralph Kiner. GM Syd Thrift claims 
to be in the market for a power-hitting out­
fielder, someone that can comfortably fill the 
clean-up spot everyday. In his day, Kiner was 
the epitome of the pure slugger, cranking 369 
homers during his relatively short major- 
league career.
But if the big slugger comes, it won’t be until 
after the season is over. Pittsburgh has to face 
a big test in the next road swing. The trip is a 
mirror of last week’s homestand against 
Montreal, St. Louis, and New York, except 
that they use other people’s bats and balls.
Sports Fans!
The leaves have begun to fall, the 
days start to grow shorter, and the 
night grows colder. Check out next 
week's Tartan for the story on the 
Penguins pre-season opener, a 
UAA extravaganza in Rochester, 
and Saturday’s football battle 
against cross-town rival Duquesne, 
PLUS full IM fall sports standings.
From Duquesne to Robert Morris, 
John Carroll to Case Western Re­
serve... No One Covers The Tar­
tans Like The Tartan!
WONDERING
WHERE TO GO FOR BEST CHINESE FOOD IN TOWN
**** CHIHAIHN RESTAURANT
Ir TSRU r.9P r.P 3FOR TAKE OUT CALL 621-6199
m m Weekly Lunch Special for only $2.59
NSIh Rr 7SU 'SSb 7SSb kP U.k9ShkrV. ;UIg.9 
bRUIh' Pf. FShPf S7 9.;Pd SgPd hScd c. fkc. k 9;.gIkV bI9gSRhP
PSU O7.hb FSU. Pfkh wGD TSR '.P k 7U.. 'b7P g.UPI7IgkP.dd
B PSU Fbr9 bIGkIV 7Vxke. 9PS; II W
¦4609 CEMTBE AYE
&KD.Kgy G B7heUM mJJuH *ETCJ 7Kp.U ’
[SUNDAY BUFFET
L .hPU..9 c H gfSIg.9 S7 9SR; ALL TOU CAN EAT
L OWLY .......<6-33_______________
,\
LITTLE ATHENS2103 Murray Avenue • Pittsburgh, PA 15217422-1330
FREE DELIVERY
VoloVuV me822
GYROS
(Pittsburgh's biggest and best)$2.35
Menu
• COMBINATION PLATTER (rice. aalad. meat).....................................$3.94
• FALAFIL (fried (round chick pe>> w/ onion and paraley)........................$1.88
•  .................................................................................................$2.85
• SmSHKABOB DINNER (aalad. rice, akewer of meat, paatry) ................$5.60
• GREEK SALAD ................................................................................................$1.80
• ARTICHOKE SALAD......................................................................................
• GRAPE LEAVES.........................................................................................$2.35
• HOMMOUS (chick pea dip)..........................................................................$1.55
• BABA GHANOGE (e«pUnt dip)...............................................................$1.55
• CHEESE ft SPINACH PIES..................................................................$1.10
• RICE PUDDING..........................................................................................$ 75
• GREEK PASTRIES...................................................................................$ 55
• FRENCH FRIES.........................................................................................$ -75
• DRINKS...........................................................................................................$ 60Plui Tax
OPEN FROM 11 AM -11 PM 
DELIVERY TIME 11 AM - 11 PM
"Why go all the way to Grccce when Athens can come to you?
CNFCcnmtns
(Pitsbsur ghsPt'eeiPb
Sarah and Tim: Hottest 
couple, Class of ’87
DESIGNER PERM
and) $25.00
Complete with written 
guarantee
PRECISION CUT 
and) $13.00
Complete with shampoo 
and blow style
JUST-A-CUT
and) $8.00
Cut only
SATISFACTION GUARANTEED! 
'm2oe 9etn2, 9eome oe ddd
Aft- N’NfCtiSAPl
MUST HAVE COUPON 
~SAVE~$2.00
gs a
PRECISION HAIRCUT
Complete with shampoo A styling
Offer Expires 
October 31
(S^GftCIIT EKfccnmtns
PRECISION HAIRCUT TEOS
237 Atwood Street 
Across the street from 
Oakland Post Office
687-3500
He was just this guy in 
my class with cool- 
looking hair. I never 
thought we had any­
thing in common— 
untU we ran into each 
other at Great Expecta­
tions.

---------------------------------------------------

September 22,1987—The Tartan—Page 21
You Say We Beat Who?
Rugby Splits 
Opener vs Juniata
continued on page 20
By DAVE WILLIS
82,I2s 4I2CCm,aIu, 
This past week an item appeared in USA 
TODAY and other newspapers regarding 
CMU football. It seemed that in an effort to 
increase attendance and interest at home 
games, the University would be giving away 
diskettes to the first three hundred students 
attending the Academic Bowl against Case 
Western Reserve. To the casual observer, this 
certainly looked like a prank. But as we all 
know, 3 1/2 inch diskettes were distributed. 
The results were quite comical, as after both 
CMU touchdowns in the 13-12 triumph, fans
Football Escapes 
Case Western
continued from page 24
freshman tongue-twister Bill Wojciechowski. 
“We have two freshmen. They know the po­
sition. If they don’t know it, they are going to 
have to do it quick and they are going to have 
to do a good job of it,” said Lackner.
Notes: Case came into the game with the best 
winning percentage in Ohio college football 
since 1982 (36-7-1), but that percentage has 
fallen to .793 with the Spartans’ 0-2 start this 
season...Brian Mikol, CMU’s sophomore left 
tackle, did a good job of controlling 6’3", 252- 
pound defensive end Erwin Grabisna. Gra- 
h )- bisna was a pre-season All-America pick for 
CWRU, a status he has already reached in the 
hammer throw and discus...Hensel needs just 
nine more completions to move into third 
place on the Carnegie Mellon all-time list. 
This Week: The Tartans take their show on 
the road for the first time this season, travelling 
across the Mon to South High Stadium to take 
on the Duquesne Dukes who beat Bethany 10- 
* 5, their first win of the season after defeats at 
the hands of John Carroll and Grove City. Last 
season when the two teams met, Carnegie 
Mellon beat Duquesne 33-22, but the game 
was more importantly remembered as the 
game in which Mike Hensel’s season came to 
an end with a second half concussion.... 
Duquesne has QB problems, with one injured, 
and a second who quit the team, a freshman 
^ will start on Saturday.Bucs Playing 
Like Champs
By JOHN FRIEDMANN
82,I2s AgsI,aT7Ias; rnaIg, 
A September 20 was a red letter day in Pirate 
history.
With a dramatic 14 inning, 8-7 comeback 
victory over the New York Mets, and a loss by 
the Cubs earlier in the afternoon, the Pirates 
were out of last place.
The win was greeted with a celebration 
worthy of a World Series victory. Darnell 
Coles, whose grand slam erased a 6-2 deficit,
> talked like a pennant is imminent.
"With the way we played against the Mets 
and the two teams in before them, I've got to 
love our chances."
Whether or not the Bucs occupancy of fifth 
place lasts longer than the end of Monday 
night, it is worthy of note. Since 1984, last 
place, the Pirates, and September have been 
synonomous. Just like hot dogs, apple pie, and 
p Chevrolet.
The Pirates may have found a combination 
that will draw fans. Mix the contending New 
York Mets, a baseball card book giveaway, the 
retirement of Ralph Kiner’s number, and a 
Pirate team that had won 10 of its last 12 
games. Add water and it equaled 20,933 paid 
admissions Saturday night.
The question is, what are most fans coming
showered the field with software. Indeed, 
more diskettes ended up on Tech Field than in 
Macintosh drives.
Despite this ridiculous promotion at the 
game, CMU’s intentions are good. The fact 
remains that fan involvement in fall sports has 
been remarkably limited. Attendance is poor, 
spirit nonexistent, and a sort of apathy towards 
the athletic department seems to have devel­
oped among those not competing. It is not al­
together difficult to find the reasons for the 
lack of interest. For instance, on the fall 
schedules, powerhouse schools like Hiram, 
Thiel, Grove City, and Case Western abound. 
To the average student who is not from the 
Pittsburgh area, these names breed unfamiliar- 
ity.
Also significantly, CMU students see very 
little publicity regarding the sports programs. 
Except for a few articles in The Tartan, Carne­
gie Mellon athletics are not given exposure. 
As Gary Meckley, assistant Athletic Director 
and head coach of the men’s cross country 
team, noted, it is not uncommon for Cleveland 
newspapers to give more coverage to CMU 
sports than Pittsburgh papers.
Athletic Director Jim Banner, though appar­
ently not overly concerned with this “prob­
lem” of low interest, was able to see to the heart 
of it. Carnegie Mellon University suffers from 
its locale more than anything else. For sports, 
Pittsburgh is a “pro” town; the natives fore­
most interest lies with the Pirates and Steelers. 
And with such a large football following, 
those with insatiable appetites for the world of 
competition turn to the Pitt Panthers. One only 
has to walk by the Pitt campus on any Saturday 
to see ticket scalpers, souvenirs, group out­
ings, and more Pitt paraphernalia than one can 
stomach. As a result, only the most minute 
interest trickles down to Carnegie Mellon.
Banner wasn't without hope though. He 
claims fan interest has risen over past years, 
and notes that outside of football, he can’t 
really expect much attendance. Weekday 
classes, full evening schedules, and untimely 
Pittsburgh weather prevent students from fol­
lowing the rest of the fall sports programs. He 
also noted that many fall sports, such as cross 
country don't lend themselves to spectators. 
But he’s looking for more fan support Let’s 
just hope they’ve run out of disks to give away.
By DAVID BRILL
82,I2s 4I2CCm,aIu, 
After a two hour delay due to adminis­
trative mixups, the Carnegie Mellon 
rugby club defeated Juniata 26-10 in the 
A game, and lost 6-4 in the B matchup.
The four tries scored in the A match 
were by Pete Wolcott, Pat Flynn, Paul 
DeFalco, and Joon Pank. Michael 
Kirkpatrick added a field goal. The only 
Tartan scoring in the B game came on a 
try from Eric Hoffman.
Plagued by muddy conditions and a slip­
pery surface, the game was slowed down. 
However, the rugby club was able to 
overcome the weather.
The team though, was almost unable to 
overcome problems with administration. 
After receiving approval from Dean of 
Student Affairs Brad Walters to use the 
intramural field, Athletic Director Jim 
Banner would not allow the rugby club to 
take the field. Intervention by President 
Cyert allowed them to play.
The rugby club’s next match will be this 
Saturday at Wheeling.
Before you choose a long distance service, take a close lode.
AT&T
The right choice.
You may be thinking about 
choosing one of the newer 
carriers over AT&T in order to
save money.
Think again.
Since January 1987, AT&T’s 
rates have dropped more than 
15% for direct-dialed out-of- 
state calls. So they’re lower than 
you probably realize. For infor­
mation on specific rates, you 
can call us at 1 800 222-0300.
And AT&T offers clear long 
distance connections, operator 
assistance, 24-hour customer 
service, and immediate credit 
for wrong numbers. Plus, you 
can use AT&T to call from 
anywhere to anywhere, all over 
the United States and to over 
250 countries.
You might be surprised at 
how good a value AT&T really 
is. So before you choose a 
long distance company, pick 
up the phone.

---------------------------------------------------

Page 22—The Tartan—September 22,1987
;Me tuMm a2­m22 eu —um’ 
—v2m2 8e 4os au 
o —umna u3 ­uuad
Your first job after graduation should 
offer more than just a paycheck.
If you're graduating this year, look 
into a unique opportunity to put 
your degree to work where it can do 
a world of good. Look into the Peace 
Corps.
FILM & INFORMATION: Sept. 23 - 4 PM 
Sept. 24-7 PM, 4E51 Forbes Quad 
Univ Pitt
SENIOR INTERVIEWS: October 9 
Contact Career Planning Office 
0
Offense
By SHAFI KHAN
82,I2s 4I2CCm,aIu,
After two games of only defense, the Carne­
gie Mellon field hockey team broke through 
on Wednesday with some offense against 
Hiram to win 2-1. In their next game, the 
offense exploded for five goals as they crushed 
a struggling Chatham College team, 5-0. They 
are now above .500, as they improved their 
record to 2-1 -1.
The weather conditions for Wednesday, 
were the usual for Pittsburgh — dismal and 
dreary. This provided a slicker surface for ball 
movement, but it also provided unstable foot­
ing. The Lady Tartans adjusted to the faster 
medium early on as they consistently put pres­
sure against Hiram with sharp passing and 
numerous strong shots on goal. For the first 
time this season, Carnegie Mellon outshot its 
opponent, with 19 to Hiram’s six.
The offense was led by Maureen Yim, Sarah 
Fay, and Maya Sternberg in the first half as 
they produced several long drives. Finally, 
seventeen minutes into the half, Irene 
Yamamura fed Fay with a crosspass in front of 
the net that she scored on to give the Lady 
Tartans the lead, 1-0. As Carnegie Mellon 
moved deep into Hiram's territory in their next 
drive, there was a collision between CMU’s 
Lori Cahill and a Hiram player. Cahill suf­
fered a sprained ligament in the hand on the 
play and will be out for ten days.
Even though Carnegie Mellon dominated for 
most of the half, they managed only one goal. 
In the final two minutes of the half, the tides 
turned as the Terriers put on some pressure of 
their own. Jenny Saffem stopped a shot and 
broke up a drive, but with one minute left, 
Hiram even the score at 1-1.
Activities Board events this week
Funded by Your Activities Fee
CLOTHING MIN AND YOUNG MEN SINCE T9M
5842 Forbes Avenue Fox Chapel Plaza
Squirrel Hill Freeport & Fox Chapel Roads
421-5710 781-0811
Erupts
It stayed that way until the middle of the 
second half when the Lady Tartans scored on 
a pass from Saffem to Lisa Vandermeer that 
made the score 2-1. The game ended that way, 
giving Carnegie Mellon its first victory on the 
season.
The second game was played under even 
worse conditions, with a steady rain falling on 
the field throughout the game. However, it 
didn ’ t affect Carnegie Mel Ion ’ s offense, as the 
Lady Tartans dominated just about every 
aspect of the game.
The game produced what may be the season- 
high statistics in several categories as the team 
had 39 shots on goal whiletiolding Chatham to 
only three. Even though the score was 5-0, it 
wasn’t even that close since goalie Andi 
Trump wasn’t tested at the goal more than 
once. She made a fine save on a shot that 
deflected off a CMU player and ricocheted 
towards the net. Credit is due to sweeper Sue 
Moll and Hetal Nanovati who cleared away all 
of the drives before they reached Trump.
Although the offense dominated the game, 
the scoring came quickly and in bunches. Fay 
scored seventeen minutes into the first half to 
make it 1-0. A minute later, the Lady Tartans 
added another quick score to make it 2-0, and 
several minutes later Vandemeer put in a goal 
and the Lady Tartans were ahead 3-0 at the end 
of the first half.
The rain started picking up in the second half, 
but that didn’t affect sweeper Sue Moll. She 
moved to left forward and responded with two 
goals, one of them unassisted, making the final 
score 5-0.
The team continues its season today on the 
road in Bethany at 4:30 and travel on Saturday 
to Hiram to face the Terriers and Lake Erie.
Mh Ona&O£)ayj£<a&O< 
ax>l xfn>f<>C&fdd) 
xjCTI>NnCnT fnA 
dy<&Cay<d) Taj) 
Ran<>Nj RaVCNJ\
-mi VODOvK,T
Our new collections have arrived from 
Girbcud, Edwin, Jimmy’Z, Polo, 
Alexander Julian, and Gotcha.
Cvueu lt ksat '8nn2,C82
Senior Sarah Fay on the move in the Lady Tartan’s 2-1 victory over Hiram.
My Beautiful Laundrette
Thursday 6.8,10Doherty Hall 2210
$1 with CMU ID $2 without
ANAMERICAN WEREWOLF IN LONDON
An American Werewolf in London
Friday 6,8.10,12Doherty Hall 2210
$1 with CMU ID $2 without
Allegro Non Troppo
Sunday 6,8,10,12Doherty Hall 2210
$1 with CMU ID $2 without
Field Hockey’s

---------------------------------------------------

ScoreboardSeptember 22,1987—The Tartan—Page 23
Tartan Calendar
September 22: Women’s Tennis at Bethany, 4:00 pm
Field Hockey at Grove City, 2:00 pm 
Sportsline on WRCT-FM (88.3)
Topic: Men’s Cross-Country 
September 23: Soccer at Allegheny, 4:00 pm
September 24: Women’s Tennis vs Wash. & Jeff at Tech Courts, 3:30 pm
Baseball vs St Vincent’s at Mellon Park, 2 pm 
September 25: Volleyball at Juniata Tournament
September 26: Football at Duquesne, 7:00 pm
Soccer at Hiram, 1:00 pm 
Women ’ s Cross-Country vs Duqeusne,
Robert Morris, and Pittsburgh at Schenley Park, 11:00 am 
Volleyball at Juniata Tournament 
Field Hockey at Hiram, 4:00 pm 
September 27: Baseball at Penn St.-McKeesport
IM Report
Tartan Scores
FOOTBALL
Carnegie Mellon 13, Case Western 12 
Duquesne 10, Bethany 5 
Mercyhurst 34, Grove City 3 
Wash. & Jeff. 33, Randolph-Macon 0 
Rochester 24, Union (NY) 20 
Swarthmore 24, Johns Hopkins 21 
Rose-Hulman 49, Washington (Mo) 20 
Allegheny 23, Denison 20 
Temple 24, Pittsburgh 21 
Penn SL 41, Cincinnati 0 
Maryland 25, West Virginia 20
SOCCER
John Carroll 1, Carnegie Mellon 0
VOLLEYBALL 
California 3, Carnegie Mellon 2 
Carnegie Mellon 2, St. Vincent’s 0 
Waynesburg 2, Carnegie Mellon 1
FIELD HOCKEY 
Carnegie Mellon 5, Chatham 0 
Carnegie Mellon 2, Hiram 1
RUGBY
Carnegie Mellon (A) 26, Juniata (A) 10 
Juniata (B) 6, Carnegie Mellon 4 (B)
TENNIS $ BASEBALL 
Rained Out
IM Report
Touch Football- All IM Touch Football games 
that have been rained out wil be rescheduled 
thru the Intramural Deaprtment Those teams 
that have been involved in rain outs should 
contact Assistant IM Director, Mike Mas­
troianni at X2214 after 4:00.
Officials Club- The Officials Club is now 
accepting new members to join the club for 
Outdoor Soccer. It is not too early to get a set 
of rules from the IM department and prepare 
yourself for the upcoming IM outdoor soccer 
season. Soccer officials will be paid the Uni­
versity rate of $4.00 a game. Those interested 
should contact Mike in the IM office at X2214.
Volleyball Tartans 
Ailing Early in Season
By NATALIE HAWRYLUK
82,I2s 4I2CCm,aIu,
The regular season has barely started, and 
already injuries are plaguing the volleyball 
team. Starters Monica Zalevsky and Chris 
Mauro both suffered injuries last week. 
Zalevsky suffered a sprained ankle during 
practice on Wednesday, while Mauro aggra­
vated an earlier injury to her right knee. These 
injuries forced the Lady Tartans to readjust 
their lineup in play against California Univ. of 
Pa., Waynesburg, and St. Vincent.
Carnegie Mellon fell to California 3-2 on 
Saturday at Skibo Gym. The first and second 
games were tightly contested matches with 
CMU winning the first 16-14, and California 
taking the second 15-13. Senior Marianne 
Smith paced the team with sharp service in 
both games. However, the Lady Tartans had 
trouble getting their game under control under 
the substitute lines put in by Head Coach Sue 
Flaherty.
It seemed as though Carnegie Mellon had 
overcome these problems in the third game, 
taking command of the match with a 15-2 
victory. Things fell into place for the first time 
in the match, as the Lady Tartans hit the ball 
with much more authority and control.
The Tartans, though, were not able to keep 
their momentum, losing the next games 15-3 
and 15-5. Coach Flaherty seemed to feel that 
the team is having problems with their basic 
skills. “They were satisfied with their win in 
game three and lost their concentration for the 
next two games,” she said.
Sports in Season
A. TOUCH FOOTBALL
1. Commissioners
a. Major League - Paul Masalsky X5468
b. Intermediate - Pat Jeffries X4299
c. Minors - Mike Grzywinski 681-2826
d. Women Only - Stephanie Janczak X4229
2. Teams still wanted in Women League!
3. Standings are on IM Bulletin Board.
4. Please note winning scores.
B. TENNIS
1. Commissioner - Mike Hayes X4086
2. Please play all matches as scheduled and 
turn in the winning scores to IM office.
C. GOLF
1. Commissioner - Brian Wilson X5448
2. The E. J. BIRDY OPEN - Golf Tourna­
ment will be held Sunday, September 27th at 
the Schenley Park Golf Course.
a. Tee off anytime after 12:00 noon.
b. Greens fees are $4.00 -18 holes.
c. You can rent clubs at the Pro Shop for 
$5.00.
d. Please turn in your 4 person team score or 
your individual score to IM office on Monday, 
September 28th.
D. CO-REC VOLLEYBALL
1. Commissioner - Mike Grzywinski 681- 
2826
2. Schedules available in the IM office.
3. Standings are on the IM Bulletin Board.
4. If a ball is hit more than once on your side 
of the net, a female must touch the ball before 
it crosses the net.
Next IM Board Meeting: Thursday, October 
1st, 1 pm- Gym Conference Room
Full IM standings to start appearing in The 
Tartan next week.
Sport dueThursday, Septmember 24 
A.CHESS
1. Commissioner - Matt Murbach X3934
Sports due Thursday, October 1st
1. Soccer - Commisioners:
a. Major - Stu Fox
b. Intermediate - Mike Grzywinski
c. Minor - Stephanie Janczak
d. Women Only - Stephanie Janczak
2. Team Volleyball
a. Commissioner - Stu Fox
3. Bowling
a. Commissioner - Randy Brown X5501
4. Raquetball
a. Commissioner - Carl Bell X5509
5. Team Table Tennis
TOUCH FOOTBALL
MAJORS WON
BETA I
CRUNCH BUNCH I
ATO
PDCA-A
GSIA
KAPPA SIGMA
INTERMEDIATE 
EAST WON
ECE-DRAMS H
CIA-A
EASY MONEY 
PIONEERS 
THETA XI 
MEAT DOGHOUSE 
PHI KAPPA THETA 
NASAL VOMIT 
CAMPANA’S MISFITS
LOSS
LOSS
WEST
THE SQUAD
SAE-B
DEFECT'S
SUDSUCKERS
THE TWUTS
D.U.
M.K GRADS 
THE ZOO 
SEI
Flaherty went on to describe the Lady Tar­
tans as a hot and cold team. When hot, the 
volleyball squad is very good, but when cold, 
things fall apart. She attributes much of the 
team’s enthusiasm and desire to captain 
Zalevsky and feels that having her on the 
bench is detrimental to the team psychologi­
cally as well as in actual play. Zalevsky is not 
expected back before Saturday’s tournament 
at Juniata.
Earlier in the week, the Lady Tartans trav­
elled to St. Vincent’s College where they split 
a pair of matches against the host and Way­
nesburg College. In the first match against 
Waynesburg, the Lady Tartans lost 2-1 (7-15, 
16-14, 0-15). Coach Flaherty attributed the 
loss to bad passing, Carnegie Mellon had 29 
receiving errors during the match. The injury 
to Mauro had forced line changes preventing 
the Lady Tartans from playing anything other 
than as Flaherty put it, “basic volleyball.” This 
also made Carnegie Mellon play defensively 
the entire match, instead of taking the offen­
sive.
The Lady Tartans were able to rebound in 
their second match against St. Vincent’s win­
ning handily 2-0 (15-3, 15-4). Zalevsky led 
the team with 10 kills while Smith helped out 
with 18 assists.
The volleyball Tartans continue their season 
with their President’s Athletic Conference 
opener last night at Grove City with a match 
against Allegheny as well. They will travel on 
Friday to Juniata for a weekend tournament 
there.
l960«lJHlU3fc. #*)'J ?
JU-
T gl'i) i L fco
m R C S fcüfltë L lîc
Q*T\ 8 p 0- I- [] 0- 
G-wq * N[S
R IJ tv* 7, í-lít 
I‘CC,6 Tl'âTc ? 
JU— h
Recruit Co., Ltd. employment openings currently include opportunities in 
Tokyo, New York and Los Angeles for Application Analysts, Market 
Analysts. System Engineers, Sales Engineers and Administrative 
Coordinators.
For more information, call our toll-free numbers listed below or 
write Recruit U.S.A., Inc.
O RECRUIT U.S.A., INC. «« :
» 725 S. Figueroa St.. 31 st Floor TOLL FREE __
Los Angeles. CA 90017 Cakforma (800) 423-3387Other (800)325-9759

---------------------------------------------------

photo by Andy Gillespie
Senior Wide Receiver Joe Mancuso 
sings the National Anthem at last 
Tuesday's Pirate game.
The Tartan
PORT
VARSITY • IM REPORT • SPORTS FEATURES
Tartans Hold Back Spartans 13-12
By JOHN FRIEDMANN
82,I2s AgsI,aT7Ias; rnaIg, 
In a game more aptly dubbed the Mud Pit 
than the Academic Bowl, the Tartans foiled a 
Case Western Reserve two-point conversion 
attempt with 43 seconds left in the game to pre­
serve a 13-12 victory.
Case had just scored a touchdown to move 
within one point of the Tartans. Disdaining the 
tie, Spartan Head Coach Ron Stuckey elected 
to go for the two point conversion and the win. 
But Spartan confusion and Tartan defensive 
penetration foiled the attempt and preserved 
Carnegie Mellon’s first victory of the year.
The Case Western drive was set up by an 
interception. Four minutes to go in the game 
and trailing 13-7, defensive back Keith Karas 
picked off a Mike Hensel pass at the 10-yard 
line. He twisted and turned up to the 27, where 
the Spartan offense took over for a drive they 
needed to score on.
The Spartans used their two most effective 
weapons: the passing of quarterback Brian 
Grabowski and the running skills of rushing 
leader Kurt Conway. Case Western worked 
the ball up to the Carnegie Mellon 45, where 
the Tartan's bend but not break defense had 
them in a 4th down and 4 yards to go lock.
Grabowski responded well to the pressure; 
however, and hit Jeff Rotsky up the left side for 
a 12 yard completion. A 25-yard completion to 
junior wingback Mike Imburgia following a 
Conway rush moved Case to within four yards 
of the end zone. The Tartan defense prepared 
for a goal line stand, but another pass on first 
and ten moved the Spartans to within one 
point.
The game, played in weather conditions best 
described as horrendous, was marked by nu­
merous turnovers. The ball changed hands 
unintentionally twelve times, seven times for 
the Spartans and five for Carnegie Mellon. 
“We had heard the weather reports that it was 
going to be a muddy day,” said Tartan head 
coach Rich Lackner. “We stressed keeping 
mistakes to a minimum. It came down to the
team that made the least number of mistakes 
was going to win the football game.”
What had to please Lackner and the other 
CMU coaches was that the offense looked like 
it was awakening out of its slumber for the first 
time.
The rushing game showed the most improve­
ment, even with injured fullback Chris Hansen 
sitting out. No one rusher came close to domi­
nating, but-the 10 Tartans that ran the ball 
racked up 136 yards, 60 more than last week. 
The air and ground attacks were much more in 
balance this week, coming up about equal 
instead of the over 2-1 passing to rushing ratio 
of last week.
Quarterback Mike Hensel still appeared 
rusty at times, but showed excellent command 
of his skills during the two scoring drives. He 
also ran the ball well, leading the Tartans with 
62 yards rushing.
The Tartans got on the scoreboard first, early 
in the first quarter. Taking over at the Case 44 
yard line, CMU kept the ball on the ground in 
deference to the weather. The running game 
just ground out yards with only one pass, a five 
yard flick to Joe Mancuso. Once inside the ten, 
Hensel chose to take the ball himself, scoring 
on a one-yard run.
Case tried to get the touchdown back on the 
next drive, but was foiled by a staunch stand by 
the Carnegie Mellon defense. Last week’s PHI 
Player of the Game, Dave Skinner, stopped 
Spartan QB Brian Grabowski (12-21, 146 
yards) for a loss of three yards on fourth down 
to stall Case at the Carnegie Mellon eight yard 
line.
Comerback Bill Cramer also helped squelch 
a CWRU drive. His interception of a Grabow­
ski pass at the CMU five yard line, late in the 
first half stopped the Spartans cold and helped 
set up the Tartans’ second TD.
The second Carnegie Mellon touchdown 
also came on a one yard run by Hensel. But that 
was the only similarity. Instead of sitting just 
outside Case territory, the Tartans received the 
ball on their own 11 and took the attack to the 
air.
Hensel connected with senior tight end Tim 
Kelly for 14 yards on the first play of the drive. 
Two plays later, split end Mike Beresford 
streaked 28 yards to move CMU into Spartan 
territory. Once there, the Tartans mixed in the 
run, but two passes to fullback Eric Polkis, 
playing in place of the injured Chris Hansen, 
moved the ball 20 yards closer to the CWRU 
end zone. Kelly’s point after the touchdown 
was no good, setting up the game-ending 
drama.
As good as the win felt, Carnegie Mellon may 
have lost some key players. Tight end Marty 
Stovar, who got the starting nod this week by 
virtue of his team-leading 66 yards receiving 
versus Allegheny, injured his knee and will be 
out this week.
Perhaps even more worrisome is the loss of 
fullback Eric Polkis, who was filling in for the 
already injured Chris Hansen. Hansen is 
doubtful for this week, and Polkis is also 
doubtful due to his foot injury. That leaves the 
cupboard almost bare at the fullback spot. If no 
one is switched in, the starter would be fresh­
man Fran Bellante. Bellante, a solid 5’8" and 
225 pounds, played adequately in relief of 
Polkis versus Case but ran the ball only once, 
for three yards. Backing up Bellante would be
continued on page 21
Tartan Quarterback Mike Hensel falls short of the goal line in Saturday's win vs. Case. 
Hensel was named PHI Player of the Game for his effort. See related story on page 19.
Tartans Left Homeless
Building a Better Tech Field
By KARYN SILVA
82,I2s 4I2CCm,aIu,
Patience and sacrifice will be the key words 
to next year’s athletic season at Carnegie 
Mellon. The proposed renovations of the 
campus include both Tech and IM fields. The 
plans entail raising Tech Field so it is six feet 
below the Intramural field, rotating it 45 de­
grees, building a new stadium, and resur­
facing both playing areas with artificial turf. It 
will be an excellent improvement over the 
current conditions, the only hitch being what 
will happen to next year’s season.
No definite date has been set for the con­
struction, but November is being looked at 
following the end of the soccer season. The 
immediate problems will start with spring 
track. Jim Banner, Director of CMU Ath­
letics, remains positive about the situation. 
It’s “Just a matter of finding a place to prac­
tice.” Which seems to be the theme for the 
next year or so. Banner sees the long term 
effects of the renovation as an exciting im­
provement. According to him, “The excellent 
programs that we’ve had will continue” and 
will be enhanced do to the added space and 
better conditions.
Banner is not the only one who is enthusias­
tic about the long term effects of the project. 
Nick Gaudioso, CMU soccer coach, admits 
that next year they’re going to suffer but sees 
the changes as beneficial. “In the long term 
it’s going to be excellent, if they do what they 
say they’re going to do. “ Better lighting will 
be put up that will solve many problems of
practicing.
Rob Schlackman, President of IM Sports, is 
also is aware of the short term and long term 
effects. Next year will be difficult because the 
loss of a playing field will eliminate the top 
three IM sports—football, soccer and softball. 
This will hurt team competition and the race 
for the total sports trophy. However, many 
sports will be offered so the IM program will 
not be totally destroyed. According to Sch­
lackman, “Sacrificing one year for improved 
facilities is not that much, provided it’s done in 
a year. Students will always be interested in 
intramurals.”
Athletics will have to cope with no home 
games and finding places to practice, but 
another group is affected. The Kiltie Band, 
the non-athletic user of Tech Field, may have - 
an interesting time trying to march next year. 
Practices will also be a problem for them, and 
somewhere they need to find, says Kiltie Band 
Director Paul Gerlach, ““Sixty yards and the 
width of a football field.” The band’s perform­
ance will depend upon “what money is avail­
able to transport us to the away games and how 
the administration sees it.”
The 88-89 athletic season of Carnegie Mel-J 
Ion will prove to be very interesting for the 
Homeless Tartans. But if all goes as planned 
our athletic facilities will be improved im­
measurably. It will take just a little patience, 
just a little sacrifice on the parts of the coaches, 
the athletes and the fans. As Schlackman put 
it, “Anything will be better than the dirt on the 
field right now.”

---------------------------------------------------

FR9Igddddddddddddddddddd;o­2 bH
The River City Brass Band delights 
Pittsburgh Audiences
FScI.9dddddddddddddddddd;o­2 bz
Jim Belushi in Old West Sheriff role in 
The Principal
I INSIDE!
ENTERTAINMENT « COMICS • CALENDAR • CLASSIFIEDS
International Drawings on Display at Frick Art Museum
The Tartan
IVERSION
By KIMBERLY McGRAW
Diversions Staffwriter
Sunday, September 13th marked the opening 
of the “Old Master Drawings from 
Chatsworth” exhibition at the Frick Art Mu­
seum. This exhibition is part of one of the 
richest private collections in the world.
The works on display were selected from the 
Duke of Devonshire’s collection which is 
ranked as the premier private collection of 
European drawings in England, second only to 
the British Royal family’s collection at Wind­
sor.
The exhibition is of 124 drawings by Euro­
pean masters of the sixteenth and seventeenth 
century, such as Leonardo da Vinci, Raphael, 
Sir Peter Paul Rubens, and Rembrandt.
The Frick Art Museum is one of only four 
museums in the United States to display the 
Chatsworth drawings, and this is the first time 
these original works by da Vinci, Raphael, and 
Rembrandt have ever been seen in the United 
States.
“The Old Master Drawings from 
Chatsworth” have been organized and circu­
lated by the International Exhibitions Founda­
tion, Alexandria, VA. The exhibition is sup­
ported by a grant from Mr. and Mrs. Henry J. 
Heinz II and an indemnity from the Federal 
Council of the Arts and Humanities. Addi­
tional funding was provided by the Woodner 
Foundation and the Andrew W. Mellon Foun­
dation.
The collection is a result of centuries of 
collecting by the Dukes of Devonshire. The 
First Duke (1640-1707) was the creator of the 
Devonshire Collection but the Second Duke 
(1673-1724) is responsible for the magnifi­
cence of the collection. He was one of the 
noteworthy art enthusiasts in an age known for 
its collectors. He started his collection at the 
age of twenty-two when he purchased impor­
tant drawings at Sir Peter Lely’s sale in 1694. 
He continued enriching the collection 
throughout his life.
Two outstanding purchases made by the 
Second Duke were a magnificent group of 
Italian and Dutch drawings from the collection 
of Nicolaes Anthoni Flinck, son of 
Rembrandt’s pupil, Govaert Flinck, and 
Claude Lorrains’s Liber Veritatis, a volume of 
two-hundred drawings made by the artist as a
record of his own paintings.
The Duke also added to his collection in a less 
traditional way. Having received a number of 
prints, the Duke removed them from their 
frames only to discover drawings by Raphael, 
Polidoro, Parmigianino, and Giulio Romano 
hidden underneath.
The Fourth Duke, William Cavendish (1720- 
1764), known as the “ Crown Prince of Whigs” 
brought the Burlington Art Collection into the 
Cavendish family. He is responsible for the 
addition of canvases by Rembrandt and Ve­
lazquez as well as a celebrated series of 
architectual drawings by Pallidio.
The Frick Art Museum was also lucky to 
have Her Grace, the Duchess of Devonshire, 
Deborah Cavendish, wife of the Eleventh 
Duke, deliver an informal talk on the 
Chatsworth Collection and her life at 
Chatsworth, on Saturday, September 12th.
“It’s really a place for young people, because 
of the distance. Somebody bought me a speed­
ometer but I haven’t dared put it on”, said the 
Duchess after seeing the exhibition, adding, 
“It’s amazingly good.”
Dr. Courcy E. Me Intosh, who is the execu­
tive director of the Helen Clay Frick Founda­
tion said, “We are truly honored that the 
Duchess, a much admired personality in Eng­
land, will be in Pittsburgh to open this magnifi­
cent exhibition of master drawings.”
Many of the drawings are preliminary 
sketches for paintings, tapestries, mosaics, 
frescoes, or stained glass. One such drawing is 
“The Master of the Months of Lucas” which is 
a design for the tapestry “Petit Patron” for the 
full-scale cartoon of “January”.
Sir Peter Paul Rubens is the most represented 
artist, having fourteen sketches which include 
ten drawings of eight of the first twelve Cae­
sars. The Carracci family is also well repre­
sented. Works by Agostino, Annibale, and 
Lodovico are on display.
The “Auxiliary Cartoon for the Transfigura­
tion: A Man’s Head” is an excellent example 
of Raphael’s shading techniques.
A series of lectures relating to the Chatsworth 
collection is being presented by the Frick Art 
Museum.
Jan SnellincXy Anthony Van Dyck, black chalk on white paper
The lecture on Sunday, September 27 at 4:00 
p.m. is presented by Graham Shearing, a 
London print dealer, and deals with the Great 
English Collectors from 1600-1800.
The Sunday, October 25th lecture /’Looking 
at Old Master Drawings” is presented by Ann
Sutherland Harris, a leading expert in Italian 
Art of the 17th century and will discuss the 
ingredients of a masterpiece drawing.
Lectures and admission to the exhibition are 
free. For more information call the Frick Art 
Museum at (412) 371-0600.
“Drawing the Pittsburgh Connection” to be Presented by Local Art Organizations
By KIMBERLY McGRAW
Diversions Staffwriter 
The Carnegie Mellon University Art Gal­
lery, in conjunction with 18 other art organi­
zations in Pittsburgh, is presenting an un­
precedented cultural collaboration titled 
“Drawing the Pittsburgh Connection.” 
‘“Drawing the Pittsburgh Connection’ 
marks the first time so many arts organizations 
have combined talents in a joint venture of this 
magnitude,” said DeCourcy E. McIntosh, 
executive director of the Helen Clay Frick 
Foundation.
This unique collaboration will present a se­
ries of exhibitions, lectures, poetry readings, 
tours, symposiums, and special events de­
signed to examine the various aspects of the 
art of drawing. Events started in late August 
and will continue through December.
The 19 organizations include the Carnegie 
Museum of Art, the Pittsburgh Center for the 
Arts, and the International Poetry Forum, as 
well as various commercial and university 
galleries.
This combined effort coincides with the 
“Old Masters of Chatsworth Collection" at the 
Frick Art Museum. This exhibition will dis­
play some of the works of the best known art 
masters of the 16th, 17th, and 18th centuries.
The Carnegie Mellon University Art Gallery 
will display a collection of "Drawings from 
the Eighties”. These are contemporary draw­
ings by Alice Aycock, Mel Bochner, Robert 
Mothwell, and others. The exhibition opened 
September 12th and will end November 8th. 
The Gallery is located at 407 South Craig 
Street.
The Hunt Institute for Botanical Documenta­
tion will have the exhibit “Mouton 
Rothschild: Paintings for the Labels,” and 
includes works by Picasso, Warhol, and Dali. 
Nov. 9-Dec. 18.
The Hewlett Gallery located on the first floor 
of the College ot Fine Arts will display 
“Drawings from the 16th to the 18th Century" 
including works by Agnostino Carracci,
Maratta, Mola, and others. It will last from 
September 25th through October 25th. For 
more information regarding the CMU exhibits 
call (412) 268-3110 or (412) 268-2434.
The other “Drawing the Pittsburgh Connec­
tion” events are as follows:
The Carnegie Museum of Art: “ 19th Scenery 
and American Drawings from the Collec­
tion,” Fifty watercolors, pastels, charcoal, 
and pencil drawings demonstrate the variety 
of techniques and styles of the 1880’s. Aug.l- 
Oct. 25. 622-3328.
Pittsburgh Center for the Arts: “Drawn to the 
Surface: Artists in Clay and Glass,” explores 
the medium of drawing on glass and clay. 
Sept. 12-Oct.l 1, 6300 Fifth Avenue, 361 - 
0873.
The Society for Art in Crafts: “Six Artists: 
Two and Three Dimensions,” Examines the 
relationship of drawing to work in clay, glass, 
metal, and fiber. Sept. 12-Nov. 8,2100 Small- 
man St., 261-7003.
University Art Gallery: “Drawing” the Fig­
ure. Examines changes over the centuries in 
the approach to drawing the figure. Sept. 15- 
Nov. 8, Henry Clay Frick Fine Arta Building. 
University of Pittsburgh, 648-2400.
Bird in the Hand Gallery: “Penny Russell: 
Animals- An Artistic Affair,” Animal Draw­
ings and sculpture by local naturalist artist. 
Penny Russell. Sept. 11- Oct.22, 427 Broad 
St., Sewickley, 741-8286.
Blatant Image/Silver Eye: “Re-Vision: Mac 
Cosgrove-Davies Explores Early Photo­
graphic Processes,” Sept. 30-0ct. 24. 1015 
East Carson St., South Side, 431 -1810.
The Blue Sky Gallery, /w\:’’Graphite, An 
Homage to the Pencil,” Graphite Drawings by 
ten contemporary regional artists including 
works by Charles Biddle, Howard Lieberman, 
and others. Sept. 13- Oct. 9,5413B Walnut St., 
687-5446.
The Clay Place: “Old Masters Drawings:
The Intimate Notation," Sept. 19- Oct. 10,
5600 Walnut St. 363-7667.Carson Street Gallery: Drawings by 1 en 
continued on page D2

---------------------------------------------------

Page D2—The Tartan—September 22,1987
Mensch Meier a Fine Example of Senior Talent
By LESLIE GRIFFIN
Assistant Diversions Editor
Mensch Meier, a senior project presented 
last week in the Studio Theatre, made one 
thing clear: these seniors are ready to fly. With 
this well-orchestrated collage of scenes from 
the life of a troubled family, director Brenda 
Bakker Harger and her inspired cast of three 
virtually trampled the audience into stunned 
submission. It’s mean to say this now that the 
play is over, but if you didn’t see it, you should 
have.
Set in 1976 Munich, West Germany, the 
play chronicles the disintegration of the Meier 
family in 22 bullet-speed scenes. Central to 
the Meiers’ problem is their unemployed adult 
son, Ludwig, content to be a bricklayer but 
whose parents want something better. Con­
stantly goaded by his laborer father, Otto, and 
coddled by his mother Martha, a tired house­
wife whose weary life consists of cooking, 
cleaning and keeping the peace between father 
and son, Ludwig is unable to break away. This 
uneasy triangle stands until Ludwig steals 
money from his mother’s purse, provoking a 
fight so terrible that the family is split by it. 
Ludwig goes away, Martha leaves Otto, and 
everyone must learn to stand on his own.
While the theme is very serious, the play is 
infused with surprising humor. Thanks to an 
able cast, the characters were believable and 
sometimes even lovable in their flaws. There
was no weak link in this trio — everyone did 
a superb job of juggling the vices and virtues 
each role demanded.
As Martha, Amy Lefkowitz succeeded in 
bringing all the dowdiness and simplicity of 
this good-hearted woman to light. As she 
bustles and cleans about the small apartment, 
her limited scope becomes clear, making her 
advice and admonitions to Ludwig and Otto 
seem naive and sometimes laughable. Yet in 
her way, she is the wisest of all, for it is she who 
realizes that the family is in trouble and who 
makes the most effort to maintain peace. 
Those around her don ’t make it easy, and when 
she finally gives up and leaves her courage is 
amazing.
Aaron Davidman brilliantly manipulated 
the audience into both liking and hating the 
penny-pinching, sentimental, worrying, and 
sometimes cruel Otto. It was easy to like the 
man who lived for model airplane building and 
acted out boyish fantasies of fame and glory— 
it was easy to hate the man who tormented his 
wife and son with his constant money grub­
bing and cruel digs. Davidman did an excel­
lent job of maintaining the characters’ duality 
throughout the course of his demise.
As Ludwig, John Tully was an enigma. He 
could be witty without uttering a word, and 
disturbing simply by sitting still. One didn’t 
quite know whether Ludwig’s situation was 
his own fault or someone else’s, but Tully
Drawings on Exhibit in Local Galleries
continued from page D1
Contemporary Pittsburgh Artists,” The exhi­
bition includes drawings by Mary Culbertson- 
Stark, Leonard Leibowitz, and Jim Nelson. 
Sept 18-Oct. 10, East Carson St.,South Side, 
(412) 481-8660 
Concept Art Gallery: “19th Century English 
Watercolors and Paintings,” Sept. 12-Oct. 24, 
1031 South Braddock Ave., (412) 242-9200. 
Gallery G: “Old Master Drawings.” Exhibi­
tion and Sale of European Works on Paper 
from the 16th to the 18th centuries. Sept. 4- 
Sept. 25, 211 Ninth St. (412) 562-0912. 
International Images: “The Supernatural 
World of Juri Arrak, Charcoals, Pastels and 
Oils,” Second U.S. exhibition of works by 
Arrak, an Estonian artist from the USSR. Sept. 
19- Oct. 24, Flatiron Building, 514 Beaver St., 
Sewickley (412) 741 -3036.
Studio ZGallery “Drawings from Beginning
to Ending” Experimental Drawings by artists 
of all ages. Sept. 18-Oct. 17,1415 East Carson 
St., Southside, (412) 381-6400
80 South 15th Street Gallery: “Dona Groer: 
Pittsburgh Drawings” and “Linda Wallen: 
Mixed Media Drawings, The Woman Saint 
Series: Aug. 29-Sept. 19, (412) 381-3803.
International Poetry Forum: “At Last the 
World Says Yes,” Oct. 23, 8 p.m. Poetry 
readings on domestic familial and mythologi­
cal themes with musical accompaniment. The 
Frick Art Museum, 7227 Reynolds St. (412) 
621-9893.
University of Pittsburgh, Henry Clay Frick 
Fine Arts Department: “Symposium: Think­
ing on Paper,” Oct. 16-17. Seven important 
scholars of 16th and 17th century drawings 
discuss facets of major European draught- 
manship. Open to registered participants 
only. (412)648-2400.
TAME
THOSE
WILD
ENDS.
Control them. Subdue them. Then moke 
them luxuriant. ThJck-tnds ' Is the sensa­
tional way for getting dry, damaged ends to 
behave beautifully. Just leave on after 
shampooing to condition, moisturize and 
odd thickness. And see how civilized your 
spilt ends can be
Lewis’
813 S. Aiken Avenue • Shadyside
682-4063•<*€I-NC^J&W^G uG«S'^««^^NW» ,Gt
certainly kept you interested in finding out. "He 
played Ludwig as both a boy and a man, and 
kept the audience in exactly the right amount 
of suspense as to which was more real.
All elements in the show worked together to 
present a smooth, unified whole which
grabbed the audience s attention ar if nèib ît rn 
a vice-grip. At the close of the show on 
Thursday night, the lengthy and insistent 
applause was testament to the power of the 
production — congratulations on a very suc­
cessful senior project.
This Week in DH2210
Thursday, September 24
Ft r2oMe83Mn VoMsam2ee2
One of those films that could only have been made in England. Omar (Gordon 
Wamecke) is a hustler, a Pakistani immigrant who transforms a two-bit South London 
launderette into a showplace extraordinaire with the help of his punk boyfriend Johnny 
(Daniel Day Lewis). This film provides insightful commentary on interpersonal and race 
relations while remaining funny and touching. Critically acclaimed worldwide. Don’t 
miss it.
Director: Stephen Frears
Stars: Saeed Jaffrey, Roshan Seth, Daniel Day Lewis, Gordon Wamecke.
Showtimes: 6, 8,10
Friday, September 25
ks ki2m84os -2m2—un3 8s Vusaus
Warren Zevon's song, Werewolf in London, has very little to do with this film, a John 
{Animal House, The Blues Brothers) Landis classic involving two American students 
played by David Naughton and Griffin {After Hours) Dunne. Dunne’s character is killed 
early on in a werewolf attack that also puts David (Naughton) in the hospital. There, David 
is visited by the undead corpse (gulp!) of his friend, who comes to warn David that unless 
he kills himself, he will become a werewolf on the next full moon. David does not believe 
his ex-friend, and, as a logical consequence, ends up fuzzy. American Werewolf is one of 
the finest horror/comedy hits of recent years, winning an Oscar for makeup design and 
providing chills and thrills by the bucketful. A fantastic soundtrack rounds out the film. 
Loads of frightful fun.
Director: John Landis
Stars: David Naughton, Jenny Agutter, Griffin Dunne.
Showtimes: 6,8 ,10,12
Saturday, September 26
Uo8,8s­ km81uso
From the Coen brothers, creators of horror sleeper Blood Simple, comes this delightfully 
wacky and offbeat comedy about an unlikely couple - Nicolas (Valley Girl, Racing With 
The Moon) Cage, as a convenience store hold-up man, and Holly Hunter, as a police­
woman - who are unable to have a child of their own. The solution to their feelings of 
familial incompleteness is found in the small person of Nathan Arizona, Jr., one of the 
Arizona septuplets and a perfect target for some light-hearted larceny. Hysterically funny 
and engrossing - one of the year’s sleeper hits.
Director: Joel Coen
Stars: Nicolas Cage, Holly Hunter.
Showtimes: 6, 8 ,10, 12
Sunday, September 27
knn2­mu hus PmuCCu
If you saw Disney’s Fantasia and liked it, you’ll like Allegro Non Troppo. Allegro is a 
satiric, ingenious animation spoof of Fantasia. In Allegro, the orchestra sequences (a 
direct parody of the Disney original) are darkly comic, as a decrepit conductor in a seedy 
music hall leads an ensemble of ancient crones through their paces. The incredible music 
in the film, conducted by Herbert Von Karijan and Lorin Maazel, is appropriate to 
accompany the brilliant and imaginative animation. In an original look at the nature of 
image and sound, Allegro Non Troppo succeeds in advancing the art of the animated film 
while simultaneously poking fun at its own predecessors.
Director: Bruno Bozzetto.
Showtimes: 6, 8, 10, 12 
By MICHAEL ROSE
This Week
Tue. Sept. 22 at 8:00 p.m.
SLEEPING POLICEMEN ' 
by Howard Brenton & Tunde Ikoli 
Directed by Brook Garrett
Coming Soon
Sept. 28 and 29 
DEBS: AN AMERICAN DREAMER
Free Admission
For more information call: 268-2407
STUDIO THEATRE THIS WEEK is brought to you by the Department of Drama

---------------------------------------------------

September 22,1987—The Tartan—Page D3
Free Tickets
3t>tINl 
GrTHrS.
In cooperation with the Benedum 
Center for the Performing Arts, The 
Tartan is giving away free tickets to 
selected events at "Curtain's Up!", the 
grand opening of the Benedum 
Center. We have 25 tickets to the 
River City Brass Band at 12:00 p.m. 
and 25 tickets to the Pittsburgh Ballet 
Theatre at 2:00 p.m., September 27. 
Stop by the Tartan office. Skibo rm. 
50 to pick up a pair of free tickets. 
Limit: two per customer. Tartan staff 
are ineligible.
River City Brass Band Brings British Tradition to America
Is ev2 kaoi,us -8s2dddConstanza and Masters Offer Personal Insights in Successful Reading
By ALEXANDRA ROSENBERG
Diversions Staffwriter
Last Wednesday night, Sept. 16, an evening 
of culture and talent was shared between 
teachers and students. Two of CMU’s English 
departments professors, Jerry Costanza and 
Hillary Masters, presented original works of 
poetry and short stories.
A very clever, energetic and “semi-R rated” 
introduction by Gary Waller set an audience 
Dsych for Costanza as he began a delivery of 
nis truly imaginative poetry. It was evident 
that all sixteen of his pieces were exposures of 
himself as he revealed humorous and sensitive 
nostalgic experiences of his past. “Costanza at 
Large” appeared to be the underlying theme 
that flowed from piece to piece. His style and 
technique of writing displayed true expertise 
as his tones, words and phrasings, and estab­
lishments of images were displayed consis­
tently. This enabled one to feel the strong and 
talented style of his work.
He presented old poems and newer ones, as 
well. A few, some may have heard before in
Readings on Campus: 
Jerry Costanza 
Hillary Masters
his poetry writing class are; “The Rise of the 
Sunday School Movement”, “Dinosaurs of the 
Hollywood Delta”, and “The Ride of Nickel 
Beer Night.” He also read pieces from his 
published book which can easily be obtained 
in the CMU Campus Book Store.
A shift in the program presented Masters 
relaying an extremely humorous and witty 
short story of a time he spent in Paris touring
with friends during his college youth. “Hall of 
Mirrors” is an amusing situation tale of “mis­
taken romance” and “wrong girl love.” 
Master’s techniques of writing and delivering 
reflected a highly personalized style. All of 
even the most trite experiences were dissected 
and seemed to touch upon all of the five senses. 
The consistent flow of this set a very believ­
able mood and set of images for the audience.
Both Costanza and Masters were very pre­
pared. Pieces were well selected and they kept 
in mind the type of audience they were deliv­
ering to. Their works definitely touched upon 
a part of each person in that audience as incred­
ible reactions and responses were received. 
This event displayed a student-teacher “relax­
ing” interaction away from the classroom, 
which is indeed needed at CMU.
By RONALD G. REDMOND
Diversions Staffwriter 
Great things often come to mind when one 
thinks of the Boston Pops Orchestra. Now, 
think of the Boston Pops, all in brass, and 
you’ll understand why the River City Brass 
Band is the most active professional bands in 
America.
%The River City Brass Band is the first Ameri­
can professional concert band to be organized 
in over twenty-five years. The RCBB made its 
debut at Carnegie Music Hall in 1981 at the 
Pittsburgh Symphony’s British Festival. 
Audience and critical reactions were over­
whelmingly enthusiastic; as stated by the 
Pittsburgh Post-Gazette “ the River City Brass 
Band might be the most important legacy of 
.-he British Festival.”
Unlike marching bands, military bands, 
“oompah” (German) bands, and swing bands 
which many American audiences are familiar 
with, the RCBB is a virtuoso ensemble of 25 
brass and 2 percussion musicians, that play 
material from these sources. Though it draws 
some of its repertoire from many of these band 
styles it still has its own unique sound and its 
•>wn musical selections. Being the only profes­
sional brass band in the United States, (there 
are fewer than forty professional bands in all of 
North America), does not mean this band 
stands alone. There are many bands flourish­
ing in Europe, in what has been called the 
British band movement. This type of ensemble 
is not even new to the USA, at the turn of the 
century there where over 20,000 bands in 
America.
Today, brass bands are a vital part of 
Britain’s mining and industrial regions. Their 
musical achievements have earned them the 
admiration of many of the world’s greatest 
musicians. Andre Previn, past music director 
of the Pittsburgh Symphony Orchestra, writ­
ing in support of the River City Brass Band 
said: “During the past fifteen years I have been 
extremely active musically in England, and 
have never made light of my love for English 
music. Included in this is my admiration for 
the British Brass Band movement, which has 
heretofore been unique to the British Isles but 
which is certainly worth importing or emulat­
ing in this country. British Brass Bands have a 
particular.and individual sound and their rep­
ertoire includes specially written works by just 
;bout every major living composer. I con­
gratulate Mr. Bemat [the group's founder] in 
his efforts to bring this wonderful music here 
and will do anything I can to contribute to this 
endeavor.”
Bob Bemat is a native of Johnstown, Penn­
sylvania. He holds Bachelor’s and Master’s 
degrees in music performance, and composi­
tion from Carnegie Mellon and Brandeis Uni­
versity. He is a former executive director of the 
Pennsylvania Council on the Arts. He is an ac­
complished composer, conductor, teacher and 
performer. As a composer he is best known for
his In Memoriam: John F. Kennedy, which 
was commissioned and performed by the 
Pittsburgh Symphony and recorded by the 
Louisville Orchestra. He is also active as a 
writer and critic for newspapers and maga­
zines, including the Carnegie Review and the 
Pennsylvania Music Education Association 
Journal.
Bob Bemat’s passion for brass bands began 
when he was commissioned to write a compo­
sition for England’s Grimethorpe Colliery 
Band for its 1976 tour of America, a tour which 
included a White House performance before 
Queen Elizabeth and President and First Lady 
Ford. The enthusiastic response of American 
audiences to the Grimethorpe Band led Bemat 
to believe that there was a “hunger for some­
thing we haven’t heard in a long time.”
Being the first American composer-conduc- 
tor selected by the Department of State at the 
British Council to participate in the US-UK 
artists exchange program Bemat spent a year 
in Sheffield, England. His interest in brass 
bands grew, and his idea for an American band 
took form.
Asked why he chose Pittsburgh to strike up 
the brass band idea, Bemat says, “It had to take- 
place in a city where there was a pool of 
talented players, and those skills are here, 
largely because of the excellent faculties at 
Carnegie Mellon and Duquesne Universities. 
Secondly, Pittsburgh very much resembles the 
other parts of the world where brass bands
have thrived, including England’s industrial 
north.”
In this renaissance of North American brass 
bands spreading outwards from Pittsburgh 
one should think of the traditional brass band 
formation which consists of twenty-seven 
pieces, as does the River City Brass Band. The 
balance of instruments has evolved over a 
century of development: the band uses ten 
comets, four tubas, three trombones, three 
french homs, two euphoniums, two baritones, 
one flugelhom, and two percussionists. Com­
petition and composition have decreed that the 
standard brass band shall be no more and no 
less.
The RCBB has just recently opened its 1987- 
88 season with “Men of Harlech,” the band’s 
traditional salute to the British Isles, on Sep­
tember 12 at Carnegie Music Hall in Oakland. 
The British salute focused for the first time on 
romantic Wales. The concert was wonderful, 
and as is usual showcased the talents of many 
of the band members as soloists. As an added 
treat to the Pittsburgh shows Robert Childs, an 
international champion on the euphonium, 
and outstanding soloist, has appeared with the 
band since its creation every year. This year, 
he brought along his equally talented brother. 
Their solos and duets on the euphonium de­
lighted the audience as well as awed them.
The primary piece in the concert was Vivat 
Regina; other pieces included A Sullivan Fan­
tasy\ by Sir Arthur Sullivan, a march entitled
The BB and CF, and a number of Welsh 
folksongs such as Watching the Wheat and 
Men of Harlech. The audience boisterously 
sang along as the band played Land of my 
Fathers, the Welsh national anthem. The next 
concert, “Strike Up the Band !” will be on 
October 10 at Carnegie Music Hall. Included 
will be some toe-tappers by Mr. Sousa and 
some Halloween surprises.
The River City Brass Band will also play for 
Australia’s bicentennial celebration. The band 
will perform 14 concerts in 11 Australian 
cities between March 3-22, 1988. Their first 
concert on March 5 will be performed at the 
famed Adelaide Festival of the Arts. The 
RCBB is one of the five major American 
organizations invited to participate in the 1988 
bicentennial celebration. The four others in 
this distinguished company are the Chicago 
Symphony Orchestra, the Texas Boys Choir, 
the Mormon Tabernacle Choir, and Twyla 
Tharp Dance Company. In addition to this the 
band will play four concerts in Hawaii and one 
concert at the New Zealand International Fes­
tival of the Arts in Wellington.
Anyone interested in the RCBB. can see them 
at Carnegie Music Hall before their Australian 
trip, on October 10. You can also see them 
after their Australian trip (to hear stories from 
Bemat about the trip,) on April 9, and May 7, 
all at the place the band calls home - Carnegie 
Music Hall. Tickets may be ordered by call­
ing: 322-RCBB.

---------------------------------------------------

Page D4—The Tartan—September 22,1987
Write for Diversions
By JAVIER GRILLO-MARXUACH
Diversions Movie Critic
A new teacher is forced to face the unruly 
students in the toughest school of the city. This 
premise has been around in American film 
since the early fifties, when Glenn Ford braved 
The Blackboard Jungle, and has survived into 
the eighties, represented by films such as 
Teachers and Class of 1984. The latest entry 
into this subgenre is the Jim Belushi vehicle 
The Principal. Unfortunately, director Chris­
topher Cain seems to have forgotten that he 
was making a high school film, instead he 
delivers an old fashioned western in the tradi­
tion of High Noon and The Good, The Bad And 
The Ugly.
Belushi plays Mike Latimer, the new princi­
pal in a school where one teacher describes 
most of the students as “...already having been 
expelled from somewhere else.” With the help 
of the school’s security chief, played by Louis 
Gossett, Jr., it is up to Latimer to beat the 
school into shape.
The film begins realistically enough, with a 
drunken Belushi confronting his ex-wife’s 
attorney, and consequently destroying the 
attorney’s Porsche with a baseball bat. Be­
cause of this action he is given the option of an 
early retirement or the position of principal at 
Brandell high. From this point on, the film 
becomes more and more stylized until the 
events taking place therein become believable 
only as fantasy. We see this in the film’s 
portrayal of the urban setting, the students of 
and their acts of violence, and the principal’s 
heroic deeds in his efforts to clean up the 
school.
By the middle of the film, Belushi has taken 
the role of the mounted avenger. He uses his 
baseball bat to joust against drug dealers from 
his motorcycle, and rides through the halls in 
order to save an idealistic young teacher from 
a would-be teenage rapist. The film elevates 
its protagonist and its villains to an extent seen 
only in westerns. The settings in the school 
soon take on the characteristics of the major set 
pieces in that genre. For example, the classic 
saloon confrontation between thé new 
marshall and the crime baron who runs the 
town is played out in the school cafeteria, and 
the final showdown takes place in the girl’s 
showers. In between these confrontations 
Belushi delivers lines such as “...deputize
The Principal
Directed by Christopher Cain; Writ­
ten by Frank Deese; produced by Tho­
mas H. Brodek; relased by Tri-Star; 
rated R
Cast: James Belushi, Louis Gossett 
Jr., Rae Dawn Chong.
these men,” and “...I will do everything within 
my power to enforce my rule...”
In this context the film is a crackling piece of 
cinematic candy. The final showdown in the 
girl’s shower is handled masterfully, building 
up the tension as an outnumbered Belushi is 
pursued in between, around and under the 
stalls, and finally delivering a satisfying pay­
off which left the audience cheering. Director 
Christopher Cain knows how to manipulate 
both the camera and the audience’s emotions. 
It is a delight to watch Belushi act his way in 
and out of the sometimes comedic but most 
often unsavory and gruesome situations which 
occur in the school. Belushi, in playing the role 
of a loser trying to shape up, often proves 
surprisingly adept at walking the tightrope 
between comedy and drama. His presence 
keeps the events of the film from becoming too 
unpleasant to watch, providing the audience 
with a likeable character it can care about and 
cheer on his way to hero status.
Unfortunately, none of the other actors in the 
film fare as well as Belushi. Lou Gossett, Jr. 
practically sleepwalks through a role too in­
significant and ill-developed for an actor of his 
caliber. Esai Morales, who turned in an im­
pressive debut performance as Ritchie 
Valence’s biker brother in La Bamba earlier 
this summer winds up playing the same role at 
a lower energy level. Troy Winbush as Victor 
Duncan, the gang leader, plays a character so 
one dimensional in his evil that it is impossible 
to regard him as a real human being, which is 
the only thing which keeps us from being 
offended by the extreme racial stereotype his 
character represents.
But none of them is as badly off as “co-star” 
Rae Dawn Chong, wasted in the cliched role of 
the idealistic schoolteacher. Chong, who has 
proven in such films as The Color Purple that 
she can hold her own as an actress, appears in 
the screen for what appears to be an extended 
cameo role. That the film makers chose to
jim ueiusm rougns it up witn a couple or sterotypical school thugs.
relegate a fine actress like her to a role in which 
she winds up as an innocent victim of one of 
the junior rapists in the school is one of the 
most offensive oversights in this film.
Wasting the talents of its supporting cast is 
not the film’s only flaw. Taken outside of the 
“urban western” interpretation this film could 
prove highly offensive to several racial 
groups, all of which are duly misrepresented 
somewhere in the movie. Furthermore, the 
film can be gratingly melodramatic at times, 
some of which even Belushi’s presence is 
unable to redeem. There are many instances of 
extreme violence which do absolutely nothing 
to advance the story. But most importantly the 
film is painfully predictable, there is never any 
doubt, from the moment that Belushi steps into 
the new school, that he is going to succeed. 
Director Cain does nothing to breathe new life
into his hackneyed plot, he is content with 
retreading avenues whicn have already beefi 
explored. A few surprises are always wel­
come, even in a film which aspires to pay 
homage to the genres which have passed be­
fore it.
Although riddled with flaws, some of them, 
such as the treatment of its supporting cast and 
the stereotypical depiction of inner city 
youths, bordering on the unforgivable, “The 
Principal” can be an entertaining time at ti# 
movies for those who are willing to disconnect 
their higher moral sensibilities and accept the 
plot for the western fantasy that it is. One thing 
is certain, although this time around he is able 
to singlehandedly redeem both himself and the 
film he is in, Jim Belushi is going to need better 
material than this if he wishes to succeed as an 
actor in either comedy or drama.
Bleached Black’s First Album Good but not Great
Westem-style High School Drama in The Principal.
The odd blend of styles gives Bleached 
Black a notable sound that obviously is not 
easily comparable to any other single band. 
Think of a band with Du-like sound and 
Beatlesque vocals and lyrics (no, really), and 
that’s as close of a comparison as you can get. 
However, Bleached Black’s lyrics aren’t up to 
either band’s level. Most songs are alright 
lyrically, but some, like “Morning Sun”, an 
otherwise attractive ballad, suffer from termi­
nal predictability.
Even so, the songs are mostly entertaining 
and definitely listenable, some more than 
others. The best song on the album is “Cir­
cuitry Spiders”, with “Let Me Take The Time” 
coming in a close second by virtue of its 
ending, which is difficult to describe but one of 
the nicest bits of round-singing I’ve heard on 
a record. Again, a surprising feature to find on 
a “punk” album.
Overall, this album is good. Not great, but 
good. (The first side is better than the second 
side for some reason that I can’t figure out.) 
Songs like “Circuitry Spiders” bring the al­
bum up at the same time that songs like 
“Chelsea”, a slightly dull song that sounds too 
similar to other better songs on the album, take 
the album back down. The album averages out 
to a worthwhile effort that, while hopefully not
By DAN BIDWA
Diversions Record Critic 
With the release of their self-titled album on 
Relativity Records, Bleached Black proves 
that bands don't spring fully-formed onto 
vinyl. The album isn’t a great work of art; it 
isn’t an epic that redefines the music scene of 
today. However, the band finds a good bit of 
room to play in the present punkified-pop 
scene, and the album shows that they have a 
fairly good handle on their sound, if not their 
lyrics.
Bleached Black’s sound and style are most 
comparable to Husker Du, with the same sort
n
of raw-edged guitars and grating lead vocals, 
only not to the same extent. Moreover, where 
Husker Du fills out their music with roar, 
Bleached Black fills theirs out with harmo­
nies, a surprise considering the punk-like tone 
of their music. The band does credit the 
Beatles as one of their influences, and the un­
complicated harmonies on songs like “Wrist- 
Slashing Romance” show it.
the best that the band can do, is nevertheless a 
good start. (The album is their second effort. 
Their first release was a six song EP on an even 
smaller label that is basically unavailable 
now.) Not everyone will like this album, but
those that do will be getting in on the ground 
floor of a band with a definite future. This is a 
good first album, and hopefully Bleached 
Black will be able to improve upon it with a 
later release.
r

---------------------------------------------------

September 22,1987—The Tartan—Page D5
Joe Bob’s Wish List of Upcoming Fu Filled Flicks
Bad. I’m bad. I know it.
See, a couple of weeks ago I was in this 
ghetto house in New York City where all the 
nasty boys were makin fun of me cause I 
wouldn’t go out and pull screwdrivers on 
elderly Jewish ladies in the subways, and I 
said “Am not, am not,” and also they 
weren’t sure whether I was white or black, 
and so I said I’ll show THEM I’m white or 
black and I’ll get $4 million worth of plastic 
surgery that’ll make me look more white but 
then I’ll go down in the subway with em and 
knock a wino down with a baseball bat and 
take his money to show how BAD I am.
And so we went down to the subway and I 
saw this old guy shuffling along and I 
looked at him and I said, “Run! Run! I’m 
bad!” and so he ran away and all the 
meanies came over to me and they said they 
were gonna beat the bejabbers out of me 
cause I wasn’t BAD.
And so you know what I did?
I hired Martin Scorsese and spent $2 
million of my own money and made them 
stand there waitin while I spent two years in 
my studio cuttin singles and gettin all the 
Empty-V cuts ready and playin with all my 
Disney toys and my pet chimpanzee Bubbles 
and then laid in the hyperbaric oxygen 
chamber for a long long time, and then when
I came out I was dressed in these real cute 
parachute pants with King Tut shoulder 
straps on a “Captains From Tortuga” gold- 
braided jacket, and I had my chin cosmeti­
cally changed into Kirk Douglas’ chin and 
my hairdo turned into these little stringy 
deals that go down on my forehead, and I 
said, “OK, all you sweetie pies! I’m ready to 
kick box!”
And so they came out at me and I AT­
TACKED em with my 22-man chorus line 
and fancy knee-shaking crocodile kick and 
Martin, he was wonderful, he put all this dry 
ice in there that made the subway look real 
ICKY like subways look but it wasn’t too 
icky for teevee, and I told the old meanies 
how BAD I was and how they were messin 
up their lives by tumin to a life of crime, and 
then I flung some more zippers and buckles
at em and told em how they ought to be 
drinkin Pepsi even though I wouldn’t never 
drink it cause it might make my face crinkle, 
and then we did this cute little choo-choo 
train at the end and then I pointed my white 
finger at em and asked em to please leave 
the subway cause they were MISBEHAV­
ING and we wanted to get it cleaned up like 
Disneyland. And then I did this little toe 
dance, cause I know that would show 
THEM.
: Joe Bob Goes :• • :. A?.1.1?.® .pnve-ln _:
And then they beat the stuffing out of me.
Speaking of people that need brain 
surgery, there’s a whole bunch of drive-in 
movies that Hollywood’s been promisin and 
THEY NEVER SHOW UP. So the follow­
ing list is some of the flicks that I been 
waitin for, lookin for, droolin for, and if 
anybody out in El Lay is reading this, I want 
you to get off your hiney and start filling 
those drive-in screens. We’re sick of waitin 
for:
“Angel River”: Lynn-Holly Johnson, the 
ice-skatin Disney yupster, gets kidnapped, 
raped and held captive by a real greasy 
Meskin, but then she gets control of the 
situation and has some El Fun-o. Finished a 
long time ago down in Mesko.
“Body Count”: Latest from Eyetalian 
goremaster Ruggero Deadato. Poster says 
“The woods are alive with the sound of 
screaming.” Prove it.
“Family Honor”: Meir Zarchi is back! The 
director of “I Spit on Your Grave,” one of 
my all-time Top 10, bounces back from the 
vicious smear campaign put on him by 
Roger the Wimp Ebert and Gene the Simp 
Siskel and makes his first flick in several 
years. The ad line: “Steal, Cheat, Murder, 
and Pay for It!”
“A Knight of Love”: Bo Derek’s next 
movie, which she’s supposed to produce, 
star in, sell, distribute and have sex with 
herself in. Oh yeah, John “It’s Time to Go
Joe Bob can’t wait for this sensitive scene
Nekkid Again, Honey” Derek is directing.
“Mankillers”: Private dickettes carryin .45s 
and in the case of Edy Williams, .44s as 
well. Also stars Gail Fisher (remember? 
from “Mannix””?).
“Penitentiary III”: Leon Issac Kennedy 
survives the divorce to whip on another 
jockstrap, even though a whole bunch of evil 
white guys don’t want him to.
“Order of the Black Eagle”: “Evil forces 
are out to destroy the world and only the 
dirty half dozen stand in the way.” The 
“dirty half dozen” could only be conceived 
by the mind of the No. 1 director at earl 
Owensby Studios in Shelby, N.C.—Worth 
Keeter. It’s a sequal to “Unmasking the 
Idol.”
“Terror of Alcatraz”: “Furry Returns to the 
Rock of Alcatraz.” Too bad it returns as 
Aldo Ray. With Veronica Porsche Ali.
“And God Created Woman”: Roger Vadim 
told Brigitte Bardot to get nekkid for the 
first one in 1956, and breast history was 
made when she took it all off on the St.
from Scared Stiff.
Tropez beach. Now Roger is DOING A 
REMAKE OF HIS OWN MOVIE. Can’t 
wait to see what else he can take off.
And finally, any flick with “blood” in the 
title gets an automatic endorsement in “Joe 
Bob Goes to the Drive-In,” so where the 
heck are these?
“Blood Diner”: Made by the most disgust­
ing director working today—Jackie “No 
Relation to King’ Kong. Her previous flicks: 
“The Being” (Dorothy Malone’s mutant 
offspring eats half of Idaho), and “Night 
Patrol,” which sets the world record for 
midget pooting.
“Blood Hook”: The guy that made it says, 
“This movie will do for fishing what ‘Jaws’ 
did for swimming.”
“Blood Money”: I wanna see it for one 
reason and one reason only: “Love theme 
sung by Frank Stallone.”
Joe Bob says check em out.
Joe Bob Fans: Joe Bob will be appearin live oi 
tee vee on Good Morning America on Mon 
day, September 28th.
WRCT Pick Hits: Dead Can Dance, King Missile, and more
By MANNY THEINER AND FRANK 
BOSCOE
Special to Diversions 
The fall semester is now in full swing here at 
CMU, but hopefully you’ll be able to take a 
break now and then by sampling the WRCT 
fall schedule. As usual, an endless variety of 
alternative music not heard on any other radio 
station in Pittsburgh is in store for listeners 
who tune in to 88.3 FM. Here are some of our 
early fall favorites:
Ornette Coleman, In All Languages 
In this two album set, jazz legend Omette 
Coleman, who is equally expressive on saxo­
phone and trumpet, holds a reunion of the best 
combos in the history of his fruitful career. 
Sides A and B feature his quartet with Don
Cherry, Charlie Haden, and Billy Higgins. 
Their acoustic jazz, with a minimum of echo 
effects added, evokes twinges of nostalgia. 
Sides C and D forge ahead with Prime Time, 
Coleman’s fusion group which includes bas­
sist extraordinaire Jamaaladeen Tacuma. 
Seven of the tracks are repeated by both 
groups, making it interesting from an educa­
tional standpoint to compare Coleman’s shift­
ing styles. The Caravan of Dreams label, an 
offshoot of the famous Fort Worth jazz the­
atre, was previously known for its live re­
leases, but this excellent studio effort is just as 
powerful. Highest position on WRCT Top 55: 
#6. (Caravan of Dreams, 312 Houston St., Fort 
Worth, TX 76102).
Dead Can Dance, In the Realm of the Dying 
Sun
Dead Can Dance are Brendan Perry and Lisa 
Gerrard, classically trained Australians trans­
planted to the foggy British Isles. In their past 
three releases, they have progressively 
blended orchestral string arrangements with 
oriental percussion rhythms. In the Realm of 
the Dying Sun is another superb effort, tran­
scending the natural limits of acoustic instru­
ments with incredibly crisp production. Their 
East/West synthesis is apparent on “Dawn of 
the Iconoclast” and “Cantara”, a mini-suite 
featuring Gerrard’s beautiful voice. The other- 
wordly music of DCD simply defies the imagi­
nation. DCD also appear on the 4AD label’s 
compilation Lonely Is an Eyesore with one 
new track, “Protagonist”. Top 55: #32. (4AD, 
UK. Distributed in US by Thirsty Ear, 310 
Madison Ave., NYC 10017).
Boy Dirt Car, Winter
From Milwaukee comes Boy Dirt Car, the 
most serious contender for the best American 
industrial band. Dark powers ineffable lurk 
between the grooves of their record Winter. 
“What Never Ends”, a rock steady drone, 
segues into “10,000 Years”, reminiscent of the 
noise-feedback demigods Blackhouse and 
Whitehouse. The song “Winter” introduces 
crunching steel interspersed with noise loops
and then disturbed vocals enter in “Prairie 
Fire”, which ends with a softer, gradually 
building rhythmic approach, adding short­
wave radio loops and a decaying, clanging 
beat. “Forms Forced Surrender” finishes their 
work in a swirling wall of distorted cacoph­
ony. A high level of intensity is present 
throughout. Winter is the second BDC album 
for RRR, the first being a split LP with home­
town industrial grunge-rockers F/i. Top 55: 
#3. (RRRecords, 151 Paige St., Lowell, MA 
08152).
The Membranes, Time Warp 1991 
The Membranes’ second domestic release, 
Time Warp 1991 (Long Live Trad Rock EP) 
continues their trend of never duplicating the 
same style from record to record. The sounds 
here range from the snarling pop grind of the 
title track (with a remixed “Butt-Wobbling 
Version” on the flip), the Mediterranean “Too 
Fast to Live, Too Fast to Die” complete with 
violin and bouzouki, and the Gang of Four 
style dance track, “Groovy (Fuckers)”. Wacky 
liner notes and tacky cover art are included. 
Don’t miss them at the Decade on October 15.
New in our bin. (Homestead c/o Dutch Ea? 
India, PO Box 570, Rockville Centre, N' 
11751).
Angry Red Planet, Little Pigs, Little Pigs 
The band Angry Red Planet explodes out < 
Detroit with their debut LP Little Pigs, Litt 
Pigs. They serve up a slab of aggressive po 
punk with a total of fourteen tunes, each cloc 
ing in at under three minutes. Energy and fi 
abound in this limited 1000-copy release. T» 
55: #1. (Angry Red, PO Box 9, E. Detroit, f 
48021).
King Missile, Fluting on the Hump 
Finally, King Missile (Dog Fly Religion) w 
big with its debut LP Fluting on the Hump 
mish-mash of simple folk-based song stn 
tures, off-key harmonica and noisy saxophc 
are combined with some of the funniest lyi 
in a long while, not inanely stupid like ma 
stream college faves Dead Milkmen. Top 
range from growing up as a “wuss”, steal 
from work, and an uneventful breakfast. 1 
55: #1. (Shimmydisc, PO Box 1187, N 
10016).
INSD ENeeNvr
(dog fly religion

---------------------------------------------------

Comics
BUT BBFORB I PO.
'* I W/SH I COULP HAVE <k 
$ *Ano uce mutF rFcohFi 
ta- hugFhT aFhAnEuciii d
^ JUST...ONE . MORE. A
TM THROUGH. 
DUSTED. 
H/STORY.
OH, TM A GONNAp/e.
TM SO HAPPY.
I'M PRIVINO TO VEGAS
-ooC oCF fSc*u BhSTFt 
Jtum kaFhEgFtScsFR 
ANP HIS per SLEDGE­
HAMMER. ^
WHAT THIS 
SCRIPT NEEDS 
IS A QUICK KB WRITE
NOWWERE
COOKIN'.'
HELLO,
PEAR.
1HMEANICE COU?
GLASS OF CHOCOLATE \W5 
"0OSCO "-. JUST HOW 
YOU USEP TO UKE 
IT, PEAR.
) QUICK ‘ 
LEMfAE
T|jf\ HAUE tT,
NOW THIS IS MAT'S GOING 
ON: ZSA ZSA HAS PROP PEP 
ME HERE AT CAESARS PALACE. 
NEXT, I'LL GO UP TO THE 
"SINATRA SUITE' FOR A SHNOZ 
MASSAGE BY JUUE ANDREWS.
nFE rr
RIGHTfySRJ vs> herein 
^r oCIviFtv
FIRST, mi YOUR 
MOTHER THAT YOU 
- ^ MISS HER.
GOODBYE'
THANKS FOR THE LIFT, 
ZSA ZSA ' SAY HELLO 
TO EVA FOR M€'
WHERE'S THE 
SCRIPT r 
THIS ISN'T VEGAS. WHERE'S THE SCRIPT'
TELL HER 
THAT YOUcove CFt ilime
YA, MA/ 
1 LOVE 
YA'
V/&OOM'
Inkspots
HE'S COMPLETELY 
WITHOUT DIRECTION
HE IS NOT, HOWEVER, 
WITHOUT HIS NEEDLE-SHARP 
INSTINCTS FOR A SNAPPY 
METAPHOR..
VIRTUALLY SCRtPTLESS, 
OUR PROTAGONIST WANPERS 
THE WILDERNESS OF THE 
AMERICAN LANDSCAPE...
NO STORY... NO DIALOGUE.. 
NO ISSUES... NO THEMES..
Letrs i pea
LIKE THE 
s DEMOCRATIC 
PARTY /
WHY, The NO, BONEHEAD. 
WHOLE. THING THIS IS THE WAS JUST DREAM. YOU'RE
APfäAM/f
HUH ? UHA-f 
TM BACK 
HOME IN THE 
MEADOW '
THIS CAN'T BE 
HAPPENING... 
THIS CANT BE 
HAPPENING-. 
CANT.- 
CANT.. 
CAN'T...
WELL,
THPFPT.
WHICHFRftTS-eioiTy
REtJOINING? U
PLEDGE MIGHT.
' x cmoT trvN rhr
I'm 3t>INlNGrTHlS 
FeATt^NlT^ \\ >TRY THAT 
NEXT TIME YOU THINK 
YOU GOT PROBLEMS, 
IMAGINE MEETING JOHN 
CONNALLY.
I FEEL MUCH BETTER
SORRY. NO. 
WOULD YOU, 
BY CHANCE. 
HAVE 
ifffO MILLION
SAY... 
WOULD YOU. 
BY CHANCE, 
HAVE A CJOLP 
LEMONADE ?
HELP.' !.. INEEP 
LIQUID REFRESHMENT ' 
1- I~ HEY /
THERE'S 
V 5OME0OPY.'
SORRY,
NO.I CAfO'T 6£LI£V£ 
I'M TOlNUJGrft 
FRftTEfeNlTij f • J
PgKVjX 1
Overload
WOULD 'dE- 
VT AC#05S 
Tt+15 IF Wi
KNOWINO MY PSYCHE, IN A 
FEW SECONDS ILL BE KNEE - 
PEEP IN PIRANHAS ANP SHE'LL 
TURN INTO "MARTHA Rfi/E'. 
DENTURE WEARER:
BUT LIVE FOR THE 
MOMENT. 1
wWDwPN NwPbS * C^lVr /
MADAM YOU ARE 
A PELUSION... SO WHAT? 
A MERE MIRAGE CMON 
IN MY I’LL GIVE YOU
HEAT-CRAZED AN ICED'TEA 
MIND SHAMPOO
TM THE 1 I
TOMATO FROM / 
THE COVER OF THE \ 
SPORTS ILLUSTRATED' 
SWIMSUIT s. 
«A ISSUE. (/
JUMPIN' 
JEHOSAPHAT 
^ WHO ARE
^ YOU ?f
H6Y! po YOU HAVte 
AUTHORIZATION TOr*\ove that ¦»L¦e t
BLOOM COUNTY by Berke Breathed funded b<

---------------------------------------------------

nded bv Student Dormitory Council LllCk DodQGTSBy Danny Fahs
By William Barnes & Matthew DiamondBy Kneep DebendsA Look Within
JHICHrtetorry
vii N6- ?UUU AND TW£N I Qou). N 
go «OWT... X SftLOTTE.» ftND TH£N yDU. S3N£THlNCr
\ UK£...
x CM*'T 
KUEVt SOW. LOST TH£ 
\RWftL
A gOOK !! .
PWOWI
By Bob Jenkins
CAMP05 UKe
IF W(? QtDN'T ? J
GOOD ENOUGH
Fl6f+r /n MO&£yj<x>Pl 
fiCMT IN tAOR£VJOOt>l\AlHGwl TtMT Ut&CLOse

---------------------------------------------------

1
Page D8—The Tartan—September 22,1987
Pgh. New Music Ensemble Keeps Changing the Rules
By DUSTIN FRAZIER
Diversions Staffwriter
For the past eleven years, a music ensemble 
in the Pittsburgh area has been challenging the 
way we think about music. The pieces they 
perform play games with the listener’s sense 
of musical right and wrong, touching on quali­
ties which, for the first-time listener, seem 
totally foreign. They are constantly redefining 
how we view the “rules” of contemporary 
music, often times throwing out such conven­
tions as melodic line and tonality itself. In­
deed, some would argue that to call their 
material “music” would be to stretch the 
meaning of the word to its limit.
The group is the fifteen-member Pittsburgh 
New Music Ensemble, and under the direction 
of Dav id Stock, they have provided Pittsburgh 
with an alternative musical source for more 
than a decade. Over the years, they have 
played pieces composed by such contempo­
rary giants as Aaron Copeland, William Schu­
mann, Charles Ives and Phillip Glass. This 
year marks their twelfth season of musical 
exploration. They have toured extensively, 
making their Carnegie Recital Hall debut in 
New York City in 1981. They have also played 
at the Inter-American Festival and are an 
annual event at the Three Rivers Arts Festival. 
In 1986, the Ensemble was responsible for the 
creation and presentation of “Music Lives!”, 
the Pittsburgh Music Festival which brought 
the best in new music and international com­
posers and artists together to our city. This 
year, in addition to their concert season, they 
will perform in the gala Opening Festival of 
the Benedum Center for the Arts on September 
25.
This year has brought some major changes to 
the Ensemble. Group founder David Stock
returns as Composer-in-Residence and con­
ductor after a year-long sabbatical leave. As 
well, the group is now a resident ensemble of 
Duquesne University, where Stock will teach 
and compose. The New Music Ensemble also 
has a new home - their six Monday night 
concerts will be held in Leonard Levy Hall at 
the Temple Rodef Shalom, on the comer of 
Fifth and Morewood Avenues.
In celebration of Stock’s return and the 
group’s new location, a dozen pieces will see 
their Pittsburgh, U.S. or world premieres in the 
coming season. Already, for their opening 
concert September 21, three new pieces were 
premiered, in celebration of the 50th anniver­
sary of the American Composers Alliance. 
The concert opened with Stock’s own “Quick 
Opener,” a work commissioned for the En­
semble under the terms of his Composer-in- 
Residence appointment. Also premiered were 
pieces by Lou Coyner, ’Steven Block, and 
Robert Saxton. In addition, the Ensemble 
helped celebrate the 75th birthday of com­
poser Arthur Berger, performing his “Cham­
ber Music for 13 Players.”
David Stock, founder and conductor of the 
Pittsburgh New Music Ensemble, returns to 
the group after a year of travelling and com­
posing. This year, in addition to conducting 
and composing for the Ensemble, he is also 
Composer-in-Residence of the Pittsburgh 
Symphony Orchestra and Duquesne Univer­
sity. During his year-long sabbatical, Stock 
wrote a number of original pieces.
While spending time in London, he wrote 
“Yerusha,” a piece based on Jewish folk 
music. Back here in the states, Stock com­
posed a lively, jazz-rock piece entitled 
“Rockin’ Rondo,” the Ensemble’s season 
opener “Quick Opener,” and a work for solo
HOWTO ENRICH YOUR EDUCATION BY $1,000 A MONTH.
If you’re a math, engineering or physical 
sciences major, you could be earning 
$1,000 a month during your junior and 
senior years.
This excellent opportunity is part of 
the Navy Nuclear Propulsion Officer 
Candidate Program. It’s one of the most 
prestigious ways of entering the nuclear 
field-and rewarding, too. You get a 
$4,000 bonus upon entrance into the 
program, and $2,000 more when you 
complete your Naval studies.
You also receive a year of paid 
graduate-level training that’s the most 
comprehensive in the world. And you’ll 
acquire expertise with state-of-the-art
nuclear reactor and propulsion plant 
technology.
As a Navy officer, you’ll lead the 
adventure while gaining high-level expe­
rience that will help make you a leader in 
one of the world’s high-tech industries.
In addition to the professional 
advantages, nuclear-trained officers get 
an unbeatable benefits package, 
travel opportunities, promotions and 
a solid salary.
Find out more about the Navy 
Nuclear Propulsion Officer Candidate 
Program, and make your education start 
paying off today. Call Navy Manage­
ment Programs: (412) 644-6435
Lt. Jennifer Reed will be in thè Placement Office on Oct. 1,1987, 
from 9:00 am to 4:00 pm. Sign up in thè Placement 
Office for an interview.
NAVY^OFFICER.
recorder entitled “Heir Play.” Throughout his 
musical career, he has received numerous 
music fellowships, including the Guggenheim 
Fellowship and four Fellowship Grants from 
the National Endowment for the Arts. His 
compositions have been performed in the 
United States, Europe, Australia and Korea, 
and have been recorded under the Grenadilla 
Records and CRI labels.
To attend one of the Ensemble’s concerts is 
truly a unique opportunity. Experiencing their 
musical style for the first time can often be a bit 
unsettling, and the group’s main goal is to 
expose the listeners to some radically different 
pieces, while helping to ease the inherent fears 
brought on by new sounds. Before each piece 
begins, composer/conductor David Stock 
provides some background information to the
listeners, telling them the history of the piece, 
giving them at least some interpretive base, 
helping them to understand and enjoy the 
music to its fullest. As another barrier breaker, 
each concert is followed by a “Meet the 
Composer” party, where concert-goers are 
free to join the composers and performers in a 
one-on-one environment. ®
Most of all, David Stock and the Ensemble 
hope that their audience will continue to ap­
preciate new and innovative trends in music 
and resist the mental barriers which stand in 
the way of some real ground-breaking in the 
music world. Their concerts are not the tradi­
tional affair, by any means, but the Pittsburgh 
New Music Ensemble is definitely a group 
worth looking into. ^
For ticket information, phone 261-0554.
At the P?h. Filmmakers...
Northwest Film and Video Festival
By JOHN GINBURG
Diversions Staffwriter
The Northwest Film and Video Festival 
Tour arrived at Pittsburgh Filmmakers this 
past weekend, providing a wide variety of 
amateur films, ranging from documenta­
ries to music videos. Northwest Film and 
Video Festival, now in its 14th year of 
touring, is based in Portland, Oregon, 
which gives the films a unique Northwest­
ern accent.
The projector started rolling with “It’s a 
Party,” by Peg Campbell, which featured a 
stationary camera located in a generic 
apartment while a party went on around it. 
This film illustrated everything that usually 
happens at a party; however, since this 
party was so stereotypical, each scene, 
though humorous, was predictable.
Much better than “It’s a Party” was “Lupo 
the Butcher,” a three minute animated 
piece, by Danny Antonucci, featuring a 
swearing Italian butcher having a bad day. 
This cartoon professionally intertwined 
gore and humor.
Next came “East of Occidental,” a half- 
hour documentary, by Lucy Ostrander and 
Maria Gargiulo, studying the history of the
International District in Seattle, Washing­
ton. This in-depth film covered all the 
times, good and bad, faced by the Chinese, 
Japanese, and Filipinos from the turn of the 
century to present day.
Garret Veley’s two-and-a-half minute 
video, “While America Slept,” made full 
use of the definition of weird. This video 
contained a glowing pink guy who goes 
into a mini-mart, buys a beef jerky, gets 
accused of shop-lifting, argues with the 
clerk, and walks out.
My favorite film of the twelve shown was 
“Swingspan,” one man’s tribute of 
Vancouver’s last Swingspan bridge, The 
Cambie, which was tom down in 1984. 
Bruno Lazaro Pacheco filmed his obses­
sion from every angle, included extremely 
interesting historical facts pertaining to the 
bridge, and combined beautiful time-lapse 
photography of traffic going over the 
bridge at night with upbeat music. Pacheco 
made it very easy to understand why he was 
saddened by the fact that the city was taking 
down the 72-year-old bridge.
For questions concerning upcoming film 
events or information Qn classes, call 681- 
5449.
il
undds tNomTans
Sept. 22
vvPUTZ
«V
that means you
xua: N9dSAIttE
Your Big Bro,Ari
UX)£ 1£H£6-TV£ TV Gcf tfllT i-£To
M
® at The Carnegieonce *A11 Ages, Levels, and Interests
25 ^Special Master Classes
^ REGISTER NOW! QUALITY DANCE INSTRUCTION
?Classes Begin September 26
*For Information, call The Carnegie at 622-3288 
?Mention this Ad for 10% off Registration Fee

---------------------------------------------------

September 22,1987—The Tartan—Page D9
Excellent Exploding Bamboo in Sweet Revenge
Everyone always notices that in my annual 
Southeastern Conference pre-season pigskin 
bookie’s advisory service (nor intended for 
gambling purposes) that I never make any 
Alabama jokes. I got a reason for this. Last 
year the new coach showed up at Tus­
caloosa, answered the phone—and got “ a 
series of death threats,” This is the FOOT­
BALL coach. This is the guy that wears the 
red golf shirt and says, “We’re gonna tho the 
ball this year.” This is the guy workin at the 
same college that LIKED the Gary Busey 
movie about Bear Bryant, even though they 
forgot to tell Gary he was supposed to ACT 
like Bear Bryant was still alive. This is the 
place with the fans that say, “We lost 
THREE games in 1986, so we need to KILL 
somebody.”
That’s why I’m §avin all my best stuff for 
my favorite team in the SEC, the clear 
favorite to win everthing this year, and, of 
course, I’m talkin...
VANDERBILT:The Commodores will be 
much improved after recruiting several 
poster children. This year’s quarterback,
Eric Jones, can walk. Predicted finish: 32nd. 
MISSISSIPPI STATE: The Mississippi 
legislature killed the appropriation for nerve 
gas in the visitors locker room, mainly cause 
it didn’t work last year. Prediction: 9th. 
KENTUCKY: Great halftime show. 8th. 
ALABAMA: Please don’t hurt me. PLEASE 
PLEASE don’t hurt me. I’m sure I’m wrong. 
I’m sure the mighty Crimson Tide will do 
much better.
OLE MISS: The rebels got busted by the NC 
double-A and can’t play on TV until 1994 
due to the ancient Reb tradition of having 
the nursing school work the stands during 
home games. 6th anyhow.
GEORGIA:The Georgia state highway 
patrol will NOT be providin escort cars for 
coach Vince Dooley this year, due to some 
Communist attacks in the media. UGAIV, 
the bulldog mascot, has ligament damage. 
They only picked up one decent player at the 
SMU football auction. But the quarterback, 
James Jackson, has promised not to go 
laying the ball down on the field and trottin 
into the locker room BEFORE THE 
GAME’S OVER like he did last year against 
South Carolina. They whupped Jimmy 
upside the head a few times and he under­
stands now. 5th.
Joe Bob Goes 
to the Drive-In
FLORIDA: Will only pass 375 times per 
game this year. Unfortunately, quarterback’s 
name is Kerwin. 4th.
TENNESSEE: Returned to the old practice 
of helicopter roundups in the Smoky 
Mountains, offering scholarships to any 
mountain boy between the ages of 17 and 25 
who can pronounce his own name and catch 
a pig with his teeth. Great defense. 3rd.
ELL ESS YOU: Last year they had some 
kickers that made “obscene gestures” when 
they missed a field goal, but they never did 
say what the obscene gestures were, so 
knowin the crowds they get in Baton Rouge, 
it probly had somethin to do with goats. This 
year all you got to know is one name.
Nacho Albergamo. He’s the center. He 
weighs 260 pounds. He is not on the menu at 
Taco Bueno. And he’s a zoology major. 2nd. 
AUBURN: They got this quarterback, Jeff 
Burger, who’s got a 27-to-8 lead over
Tennessee with one second in the game last 
year. The coach tells him to fall on the ball. 
He takes the snap, drops back, hesitates, 
hesitates some more, and runs it into the end 
zone to win 34 to 8. They asked him why he 
did it. “Instinct.” Guy like that, forget it, he 
could be coach at Alabama. Finish: Numero 
Uno.
Speaking of dead meat, “Sweet Revenge” is 
the latest Roger Corman made-in-the- 
Philippines exploding-bamboo movie with 
20-year-old girls in khaki shirts runnin 
around through the jungle with machine 
guns. Roger made these movies under 
Marcos, and now he’s making some more of 
em under Corazon Aquino. Governments 
change, but art is forever.
This is the old familiar story of Martin 
Landau running a white slavery operation 
that kidnaps girls out of Hollywood Boule­
vard teenybop clubs, drugs em, takes em to a 
concentration camp in Thailand, and then 
dresses em up in pastel party dresses so they 
can be auctioned off to Texans. Unfortu­
nately, one of Martin’s kidnappers messes 
up and kidnaps Nancy Allen by mistake, and 
Nancy has this heavy hair-spray poofy blond 
hair helmet that stands straight out in 
hurricane-force winds and NEVER GETS
DIRTY through two hours of runnin through 
the jungle, and so the Texans think 
something’s wrong with her and they won’t 
buy her. That’s OK, though, cause Ted 
Shackelford, the guy who plays Gary Ewing 
on “Knot’s Landing,” helps em all bust out 
of jail so he can take the bimbos to his cave 
and root around on a blanket with her until 
her hair breaks and she cries about how old 
evil old Martin Landau has kidnapped her 
daughter and murdered her husband and 
what she is going to do- -and then they have 
sex.
Four breasts. Forty-five dead 
bodies. Kung fu. Five motor vehicle chases. 
Bimbo auction. Unrealistic scene where 
somebody bids $75,000 for Nancy Allen. 
Exploding barge. Exploding copter. Explod­
ing bamboo. Aardvarking. Drive-in Acad­
emy Award nominations for Michelle Little, 
as one of the kidnapped bimbos, for saying 
“Kung fu is my life”; Martin Landau, for 
gettin paid for one day’s work: Leo Marti­
nez, as Buddha the friendly Filipino extra, 
for looking at the debris after a helicopter 
gun ship has totally destroyed his village 
and killed dozens of people and saying 
“Only my pride is really hurt; they’ve never 
gotten this close before.”
Two stars. Joe Bob says check it out.
Diversions Staffwriters:
Don't forget the staff meeting tonight at 
8:00 p.m. Any new interested writers are 
welcome to attend.
The TI-74 offers BASIC programming, 
with a 113 BASIC' keywuiJ set There's SK Constant 
Memory und suhr<inane capability fur ujtuiucJ programming flexibility.
TI programmable calculators 
have all the right functions and 
enough extra features to satisfy 
your thirst for power.
To all yiw science and engineering 
majors unsatisfied with mere calculators, 
Tl has gixxl news. Your power tools are
here. The Tl-95 PROCALC™ is 
keystroke programmable and the TI-74 
BAS1CALC™ is BASIC language 
programmable. Each has a full range of 
scientific,* mathematical and statistical 
functions, and plenty of power extras.
Both have optional equipment such 
as Solid State Software™ modules.
"The TI-95 offers powerful 7200-step keystroke
programming and features our exclusive Hiutrr Windows, uhii h prut iJt 
easy access to the functions and flexible file management system
including math, statistics and 
chemical engineering, and a mockile 
with an additional 8K Constant 
Memory. Additional power accessories 
include a separate portable printer and 
cassette interface.
So if you’re into power, look for the 
display in your bookstore for a demon-
stration of our power tools. They build 
such a stnmg case for themselves, 
our competition doesn't know what 
to make of them. ft*«
yrcne$arCS01IaCr
4* W7 Tl ,,*Tr.»dem.irk t4 Toub Instruments liKotptwaned

---------------------------------------------------

Page DIO—The Tartan—September 22,1987
DAX brings Brazil to Carnegie MellonFirst of Junior 
Group Shows at 
Forbes Gallery
By EDIE LOCKE
Special to Diversions
The first of three junior group shows 
will open tonight at the Forbes Gallery, 
featuring the work of Steve Antonson, 
Christie Thomas, Troy Lambert and 
Mark Kanieff.
Antonson, who collects everything 
from rubber stamps to gears (which 
feature strongly in his work) will be 
showing mostly collaged and charcoal 
drawings. While originally interested in 
portraiture, Steve gradually began to 
add other images to his pieces. Finally, 
he eliminated the figure altogether, 
finding that he could express his ideas 
better using the symbolism of different 
objects and their associations.
Antonson seeks to combine common 
objects together and discover all they 
can represent. The meaning that a few 
shapes together connote, leads to more 
and new meanings about them and 
usually an addition of objects to the
At Forbes Gallery 
This Week...
work. Antonson has definite ideas be­
hind his work and, ideally, he would like 
the viewer to be able to come to some of 
the same conclusions, even if they are 
not his exact intention.
Christie Thomas will be showing 
paintings and prints concerning “the 
sensuality of water”. Being from Ohio, 
Thomas did not grow up with proximity 
to the ocean. Nevertheless, as a swim­
mer, she was obviously drawn to it and 
found trips to the shore inspiring. In her 
work, she is interested in the idea of a 
unity between the qualities of water and 
the qualities of people. She has been 
concentrating on the different appear­
ances and impressions of water from an 
aerial view and “what it does” up close. 
“Like water,” Christie states, “the 
‘view’ of people can also change drasti­
cally, the closer you get”
Troy Lambert will be exhibiting paint­
ings, prints and drawings concerning 
the figure. His interest lies not in exact 
anatomy but more in gesture; the way 
the body moves and its angles. Looking 
toward the Surrealists, Lambert wishes 
to concentrate on more unusual compo­
sitions and color combinations. Silhou­
ettes also attract Troy, with their vague­
ness and ambiguity. This uncertainty is 
in keeping with his wish that the viewer 
is able to derive their own personal 
meaning from his work.
As he is in the process of moving away 
from painting and other two dimen­
sional expression, Mark Kanieff will be 
showing a new sculpture. The piece is 
ceramic and mixed media and Kanieff 
finds the direct physicality of working 
with the clay and his hands more attrac­
tive than paint.
His work concerns the ideas of primi­
tive ruins and destroyed forms. It is 
meant to be mysterious rather than 
decorative. While he is concerned with 
repetition of forms and their beauty, it is 
also important that the work remain 
pure and not lose sight of form and 
function working together. Finally, 
Mark wishes to say, “Hi, Mom".
By TAMMY WILLIS
Diversions Staffer iter
It looked like a sparring match between 
Brazil and the USA. That’s the impression of 
the 1987 Video Crossing with Sao Paulo’s 
Museum of Images and Sound and CMU’s 
Magical DAX (Digital Arts Exchange) held 
on Sept. 17 on the fourth floor of CFA. With 
the help of Roger Dannenberg, Chris Koe- 
ningsberg, and visiting artist, Scott Timm and 
by the use of two live telephone lines, music 
and dance was able to be transmitted between 
the two countries using FM radio.
An alternating pattern was used. First DAX 
performed a segment of synchronized dance 
and then the Museum of Images and Sound 
answered with their performance. The event 
was a success as both participants displayed to 
each other their video talents, but there was a 
small problem evident during the perform­
ance; a major percentage of the audience was 
unaware of the purpose of DAX and the 
magnitude of the feat that was accomplished.
DAX, originally called GEKKO (Genera­
tive Energy Kinetic Knowledge and Order), is 
a nine member group that originated in CMU. 
CFA’s Bruce Breland is the overall art director 
who has wanted this dream since 1962 when 
he first came to Pittsburgh. His dream was on 
its way when in the fall of 1982 a semester long 
workshop was given involving video by using
By LORI MAURER
Diversions Staffwriter
Garbo (a musical) was the last production of 
the Pittsburgh Playwright’s Festival at 
Chatham College. This is the Festival’s third 
year but it is the first time that it has been 
staged at Chatham’s Eddy Theatre. The move 
to a larger theatre was taken by most as an 
indication that the Festival would promote 
native Pittsburgh playwrights by providing an 
outlet for their creativity and would feature 
professional plays that would attract a large 
audience. Garbo certainly did not live up to the 
expectations of the festival or of the audience. 
It ended the festival on a decidedly amateurish 
note and as a “work in progress” showed 
almost no potential for serious improvement.
The premise of the play was intriguing. 
Greta Garbo was a legendary star from the 
Golden Age of Hollywood and she was sur­
rounded by an aura of mystery. Unfortunately, 
the play failed to enlighten the audience on any 
aspects of Garbo’s personal life and merely 
expanded the theme of the Swedish film star’s 
renowned phrase, “I vant to be alone.” Garbo 
portrayed the actress’ life from her arrival in 
Hollywood to Greta’s dissatisfaction with her 
life.
In the first act, Garbo was dominated by her 
Swedish director, Mauritz Stiller, who 
brought her to Hollywood to create a luminous 
image of “his Greta.” Garbo was unhappy with 
the influence that he had on her life but dis­
cussed it with the audience, instead of with the 
characters. Garbo had two male suitors who 
drifted in and out of her life whom the audi­
ence knew nothing about. The first act ended 
with the death of Garbo’s dominant director. 
Stiller, and Garbo’s declaration that she will 
now take care of herself.
In the second act, Garbo was apparently 
searching for her identity. She declined a 
proposal from a famous symphony conductor 
who gave up his wife for her and eventually 
realized that she was a homosexual. Garbo 
found temporary happiness in her realization 
but at the end of the play, was downcast once 
again. Her only solace was realized in two 
philosophical statements. In a film sequence 
during the play, Garbo stated twice, “One’s 
life is all one has.” The musical ended on a 
similar note when Garbo sung “Days Follow 
Days” and said that eventually “they’ll all be
black and white slow scan television; this was 
done in cooperation with Don Forresta from 
Paris’ Ecole Nationale des Decritif, Professor 
Lodz from the National Film School from 
Austria and Warner Cable. As the group pro­
gressed, Europe invited them to join in the 
efforts to produce Atlantic Teleproduction’s 
successful “World in 24 hours.” According to 
Mr. Breland, it was this step that established 
the group in the “planetary network” that actu­
ally shaped the whole concept of DAX - to 
form an organization that consists of all types 
of artists that will enable a better and more 
efficient means of communication.
From this point the group “took off.” Venice 
invited them to “The Venice Biennale”; this 
was the first time that CMU Fine Arts was able 
to participate in the international art exhibit. 
Following this event in 1985, the now offi­
cially called DAX participated with the Chal­
lenger Space Shuttle program. Mr. Breland 
stated, “It was the first time in the history of art 
that artists exchanged images with FM radio.” 
All four T. V. stations in town covered the na­
tional event as the team transmitted images of 
CMU’s crest and peace related themes to the 
space shuttle from an antennae positioned atop 
Hamerschlag Hall. Such an event touched off 
mixed emotions on campus. There was not a 
lot of acceptance because computer-related 
events were only taken seriously by the com­
souvenirs.” The audience was left to ponder 
the significance of this statement as the play 
reached its awkward ending.
Betty Gibbons Caplan, the author of the play 
and an alumnus of CMU, has been working on 
the play for four years and admits it’s still a 
“work in progress.” However, the play suffers 
from problems that seem too serious to be 
solved. Caplan’s characters were strictly one­
dimensional. Even the character of Garbo 
lacked any depth. The other characters drifted 
on and off the set without any apparent expla­
nation, perhaps trying to evoke the lack of 
control that Garbo had in her own, life but 
nonetheless leaving the audience totally be­
wildered.
The play also suffered from a monotonous 
musical score written by another CMU alum­
nus, Paul Brust. Perhaps the monotony of the 
music would not have been as hypnotic if there 
was an orchestra instead of merely a pianist but 
still, Brust’s score seems like it’s a variation of 
four chords which either speed up or slow 
down, depending on the character’s moods.
The acting in the play was at its best, labori­
ous. The flatness of Caplan’s characters cer­
tainly wasn’t enhanced by the failure of the 
actors to represent any emotion other than 
fatigue. Garbo was played by Beverly Th­
ompson, who possessed a feeble voice that 
barely projected past the front row of the 
theatre and whose acting technique consisted 
of three facial expressions: helplessness, 
weariness, and once in awhile, a glimpse of a 
smile.
% All but one of the actors were similar to 
Beverly Thompson in the respect that they 
could not successfully sing or act. David Per- 
enyi, who portrayed Garbo’s first Hollywood 
lover, John Gilbert, had gestures so spasmatic 
and abrupt that they were almost comical. Bub
puter science majors; however, the group 
persisted in their goal of dealing with art and 
science as an interacting field of study; a goal 
that according to Mr. Breland has been “well 
established.”
The other members of DAX include full­
time project director Bess Adams who started 
out initially as a volunteer; three engineers, 
Gregg Podnar a person involved with robotics 
who switched to engineering, Eugene 
Hastings, manager of Pittsburgh Super Com­
puter (a local organization of nearby colleges), 
and Micheál Schepponis; Philip Rostek, an 
artist/writer who is a 1973 CMU graduate; 
Henry Pisciotta, the group’s archivist in the 
Hunt Library; and the graduate students, 
Matthew Wrbican,Robert Dunn and Jim 
Kocher. Other pioneers in the team’s success 
are Aldo Tambalini from MIT, Dale Burgy 
from Massachussett’s College of Art, Douglas 
Davis who first helped with the workshop held 
in fall of 1982 by smuggling photos from 
Poland in December of 1981 (the time of 
Marshall Law) and sending them to Paris to be 
transmitted to Pittsburgh, and Roy Hascott 
from Gwent College in Caerlyn, Wales.
The exchange between Sao Paulo, Brazil and 
Pittsburgh, PA will be an ongoing event in the 
future of DAX. Bruce Breland is hopeful that 
even more countries will participate in “elec­
tronic space” with them.
Mellott, as Garbo’s Swedish director, Mauritz 
Stiller, sang in an extremely loud voice that 
was out of tune for the duration of the show. 
The one exception to the incompetent acting 
was Franz Lion who played the character of 
Cecil Beaton. Surprisingly, Lion could sing, 
act and also had a great deal of stage presence.
Garbo also suffered from stark, inadequate 
scenery, a host of lighting problems and a 
chorus that couldn’t dance. The scenery did 
nothing to depict the era of Garbo or the nature 
of her existence and seemed to get in the way 
of the actors rather than to improve the play. 
The greatest of the lighting problems was 
simply synchronization but it was also annoy­
ing to hear the loud click of the illumination of 
the spotlights before every dramatic scene. 
The chorus was almost entertaining in its 
blighted attempts at singing and dancing. In 
the first act, the chorus rushed on stage as 
reporters in multi-colored raincoats, smiling 
as they all missed the beat of the music in their 
singing and dancing. In the second act, the 
chorus does an absurd dance in dresses while 
holding rings of roses above their heads.
It seems impossible to find one redeeming 
quality in Garbo. The premise of the play had 
great potential but needs to be properly devel­
oped. The script was written in an uneven 
manner. This was especially apparent in the 
second act when the frequent shifts from grave 
to humorous numbers made Caplan’s inten­
tions extremely ambiguous.
The Pittsburgh Playwright Festival is a great 
idea because the scarcity of theatres in Pitts­
burgh makes it difficult for writers to present 
their works to the public. Hopefully, in years to 
come, the Festival will show that there is talent 
in Pittsburgh rather than presenting a musical 
of lamentable failure like Garbo.
Fifty Free tickets!
see page D3 for details
Pgh. Playwright’s Festival Ends on a Sour Note

---------------------------------------------------

September 22,1987—The Tartan—Page Dll
Classifieds
== Jobs/Wanted
Telephone Sales: Part time position 6-9:30 p.m. 
Call from our Shadyside office for non-profit or­
ganization. 6-10 positions. 363-4953 - afternoons.
Astro Pizza wants drivers with cars immediately! 
Hourly wage and Commission. Call 362-9800 or 
682-2772.
1 Room Efficiency. Private entrance, private bath, 
utilities included. Call 683-0150.
2 BR Apartment for rent: Shadyside, $415 + 
electric. Very spacious LR, DR, laundry, parking, 
just painted. 362-3595 evenings.
For Sale
Services
Restaurant Catering Administrative Ass’t: Grad 
student needed to assist food & beverage director, 
Warner Center. Qualifications must include ban­
quet service experience, typing skills, & profes­
sional appearance. Full or part-time offered. Hours 
are flexible. Call Philip Cullin at 281-9000. EOE.
Fianist needed for religious services Thursday, 
Sept. 24, 10a.m. and Saturday, Oct. 3, 10a.m. 
Experience in liturgical music not necessary. Call 
Leon Morris, 648-2735.
EARN UP TO $5,000 next school year managing 
on-campus marketing programs for top national 
companies. Flexible part-time hours. Must be Jr., 
Sr., or Grad. Call Yasmin at (215) 567-2100.
FLOWERS FOR SALE...Craig and Bayard Sts. 
Rose bouquet $3.95, mixed bouquet $3.25. 
ALEX’S FLOWERS 687-4128. Delivery 687- 
4128.
Mise
Cleaning Service: Experienced, reliable person 
will clean your apartment, home, dorm, office. Own 
equipment. Excellent references. 422-3702 (24 
hours).
Female Smokers (18-30), learn about how your 
body copes with stress and smoking, and earn $20 
in 2 hours. Blood samples taken. For more info, call 
521-4647.
Housing
1 Room Efficiency. Private entrance, private bath, 
utilities included. Call 683-0150.
House for sale: Oakland, newer 2 story brick, 3 
bedrooms, integral garage. Quiet street, move-in 
condition. Minutes from university. 681-6604.
Free Rent and Growing Equity. 3 unit house— 
Shadyside, near Walnut. Separate utilities. Occu­
pancy permit. Walk to Pitt or CMU. $79,900 sale by 
owner. 621-0814 day, 767-9942 eve.
Parties...Parties...Parties
We have everything for your party at Papermart - 
One stop party shopping. Halloween, X-mas, New 
Year’s, and much more. Over 10,000 square feet of 
party. Party favors, decorations, and a wide variety 
of novelties. Close to campus - Morewood Avenue 
at Baum. 681-8900.
RESEARCH PAPERS. 15,278 Available! Cata­
log $2.00. Research, 11322 Idaho, #206XT, Los 
Angeles 90025. Toll Free (800)351-0222, Ext. 33. 
Visa/MC or COD.
Drive a Car Anywhere Free. Pay gas only. A-l 
Auto Movers. 828-4813.
SAINT ELMO’S BOOKS
Pittsburgh’s alternative bookstore invites you to 
browse our Peace & World Affairs, Theater & 
Drama, Poetry & Writing, Cooking & Wine, and 
Eastern & Western Spirituality collections, also 
hard-to-find Progressive Jazz and New Age Space 
Music. 2214 E. Carson St., Southside. Open til 9 
nightly. 431-9100.
Performers Collective Singers, M/F dancers, 
comedians, jugglers, clowns, mimes, magicians, 
puppeteers, storytellers, ventriloquists. The best in 
affordable entertainment. 731-8877.
( \ ; v ; N *•- ': • : • ........ i • i. -v . y < tv ,*• * i v..-' v.' '"¦s v-'*
U ***
_ «»ia? XF KJ -t
fons
/. /\ : >!u!i:! / \‘. wi«» l.l.v, S, wwi v)i ; • N ->•»—¦ -• • >¦ c
;pi; ii! V. li": I: \ i;: i Oi !'. IJVI. ! ic W 'x—'i *—*
\ til'll :.CvI.M!»;' n!.\ »i.'iv’iv o.\v". «v) >11 V «•
* J
• • i C""' .• i /“it ¦: \ 1 o;i:;; •••' J......................- \ ¦
iil.ulii.,..:'., 11 [.. ;. v.. v.. v.;. » !. N. v. 11. • : v »V' ' .BJUUU I /i • < i i v • \ ui .. i. v < v. r. v. l. .•  
:c i; s ;:iui
v. i»; \.i i % •! i •.' > *. . Iv v11 V- v i: v•! u t i .*¦> -
. is:. i.; ¡i \ dossier S7/SS is undefway and wclcomcs literature 
,. from any student enrolled at Carnegie Mellon.
.: .To submit work (preferably on a macintosh disk):;;yc:* v/;;:. l;::l
vi vflSci'.v . i<ov I! Kill v'.ii; • send through campus mail to
. . L dossier
!uv)k :>OiV:CVipETm c/o The Tartan
103 Skibo
;• ! c, /--¡¡ci Kv?V. • drop off at
• i-, •'••• - }’?• ... ” The Tartan office
• !’l,: ,J‘ ,iiv' Skibo room 50
*' ........................... • contacti i*.c v.I..,\.iv. ...... MicheleOsherow
; ha-n ivy "coqK.:^ i::«: 681 8075
v.v:v. ‘’i.'iicr:v.*.*:i•*» cn'o.v.
THE PITTSBURGH 
SYMPHONY
ALL TARTAN PHOTOGRAPHERS:
PHOTOGRAPHY MEETING 
WEDNESDAY 6:30P.M.
Student Corporation is looking for employees! 
This year, earn extra money with jobs you enjoy!
Check off the jobs that interest you:
Please respond immediately!
?Graphic Designer
?Writer
?Party Hostess
?House Painter
?La ndsca per/Gardener
?Babysitter
?Tutor
?Haircutter
?Music Teacher v
?Bookkeeper
?Clerical Worker
?Carpenter
?
(Other)
Name
Campus Address
Telephone
Return this form to Student Co r poration, Skibo 58 
You will be notified within one week after receipt of this form to arrange for an interview.
If you have any questions, please come to our meetings: Every Monday at 5:30, Skibo Room 13

---------------------------------------------------

Page D12—The Tartan—September 22,1987
Announcements
Richard M. Cyert will have open office hours 
for students between 2:30 pm and 5 pm, in his 
office, 602 Warner Hall on Wednesday, Octo­
ber 7. Students who wish to meet with the 
president should telephone his secretary at 
268-2200 to set up an appointment. 
Constructions With Light, exhibited by Jane 
Haskell. Through October 4. Pittsburgh 
Center for the Arts, Fifth and Shady Avenues. 
Gallery Hours are 10 am - 5 pm, Tuesday 
through Saturday; 1 pm - 5 pm, Sunday. 
Graphite: Homage to the Pencil. Through 
October 12. Pittsburgh Center for the Arts, 
6300 Fifth Avenue, Shadyside. Gallery Hours 
are 10 am - 5 pm, Tuesday through Saturday; 
1 pm - 5 pm, Sunday.
Drawn to the Surface: Artists in Clay and 
Glass. Through October 11. Pittsburgh Cen­
ter for the Arts, 6300 Fifth Avenue, Shadyside. 
Gallery Hours are 10 am - 5 pm, Tuesday 
through Saturday; 1 pm - 5 pm, Sunday.
On the Line: The New Color Photojourna­
lism. An exhibition of color photographs 
organized by the Walker Art Center in Min­
neapolis. Through November 8. Carnegie 
Mellon Art Gallery, 407 South Craig Street. 
Gallery Hours are 10 am - 5 pm, Tuesday 
through Friday; 11 am - 5 pm, Saturday; 1 pm
- 4 pm, Sunday.
Drawings from the Eighties. As part of the 
citywide Chatsworth Collaboration of draw­
ing exhibitions, the Carnegie Mellon Art Gal­
lery features contemporary works on paper. 
Through November 8. Gallery Hours are 10 
am - 5 pm, Tuesday through Friday; 11 am - 5 
pm, Saturday; 1 pm - 4 pm, Sunday.
Six Artists: Two and Three Dimensions. 
An exhibition on the interrelationships of the 
drawings and three-dimensional work of 
Mary Bero, Dale Chihuly, Anne Currier, 
Christine Federighi, Peter Gourfain and Mark 
Kobasz. Through November 8. The Society 
for the Art in Crafts; 21st and Smallman 
Streets, the Strip District. Gallery Hours are: 
10 am - 5 pm, Tuesday through Saturday; 1 pm
- 4 pm, Sunday.
Drawings by Old Masters, 16th through 
18th Centuries. Through October 25. Hewl­
ett Gallery, College of Fine Arts, 1st floor. 
Gallery hours are: 11 am - 4 pm, Tuesday 
through Saturday and 1 pm - 4 pm, Sunday. 
Roman Catholic Oratory. Celebrate mass 
on campus at 7 pm, Saturday night and 10:30 
am, Sunday morning, in the GSIA Audito­
rium. Daily Mass is celebrated at 12:30 pm, 
Monday through Friday, in CM’s Chapel 
(Skibo Rm. 39). For more information call 
681-3181.
The Downtown YWCA is sponsoring Home 
Health Aide Training. For supervised training 
in theory demonstration and CPR call 391 - 
5100. The sessions begin September 21 and 
last for three weeks.
Is There Anyone Else Like Me On Campus?
If you are dealing with attractions toward 
members of the same sex, the answer is yes. 
Join sympathetic peers for informal discus­
sions of issues that are important to you. For 
details, contact the CMU Gay and Lesbian 
Alliance via campus mail c/o Skibo Informa­
tion Desk or via computer mail to ga0y@tb. 
All responses are confidential.
Buhl Science Center.
41st Annual Tropical Fish Show. Sept 20 - 
October 4. Open during normal Buhl hours. 
Call 321-4300 for information.
Laserium. 8 pm and 9:15 pm, Thursday 
through Sunday; and 3 pm, Saturday. For 
current concerts call 321-5554.
Sounds Sensational. Permanent exhibit at 1 
pm - 5 pm, Monday through Thursday; 1 pm - 
9:30 pm, Friday; 10 am - 5 pm, Saturday; and 
1 pm - 5 pm, Sunday.
The Right Moves. Permanent exhibit at 1 pm
- 5 pm, Monday through Thursday; 1 pm - 9:30 
pm. Friday; 10 am - 5 pm, Saturday; and 1 pm
- 5 pm, Sunday.
Batter lip. Permanent exhibit at 1 pm - 5 
pm. Monday through Thursday; 1 pm - 9:30
pm, Friday; 10 am - 5 pm, Saturday; and 1 pm
- 5 pm, Sunday.
Color. Permanent exhibit at 1 pm - 5 pm, 
Monday through Thursday; 1 pm - 9:30 pm, 
Friday; 10 am - 5 pm, Saturday; and 1 pm - 5 
pm, Sunday.
I mage Imagination. Permanent exhibit at 1 
pm - 5 pm, Monday through Thursday; 1 pm - 
9:30 pm, Friday; 10 am - 5 pm, Saturday; and 
1 pm - 5 pm, Sunday.
Foucault Pendulum. Permanent exhibit at 1 
pm - 5 pm, Monday through Thursday; 1 pm - 
9:30 pm, Friday; 10 am - 5 pm, Saturday; and 
1 pm - 5 pm, Sunday.
^ ^ Tuesday
Jad md Fup82,
A Midsummer Night’s Dream, starring 
Mickey Rooney and James Cagney. Amusing 
and sometimes downright dreamy is this 
Warner Brothers version of Shakespeare. 
Pittsburgh Playhouse at 7:30 pm and 9:40 pm. 
Admission $2.95.
Stardust Memories, starring Jessica Harper 
and Charlotte Rampling. A filmmaker’s 
world begins closing in on him. Pittsburgh 
Playhouse at 7 pm and 9 pm. Admission
$2.95.
V24eMm2,
Dept, of Chemical Engineering Seminar.
Professor Donald R. Paul, University of 
Texas, speaks on “Transport for Small Mole­
cules and Polymeric Materials” at 11 am in 
DH 1112. Coffee and pastries are served at 
10:45 am in DH 1102.
MEMS Staff Seminar. Professor Mark R. 
Plichta, Michigan Technological University, 
Houghton, speaks on “Concurrent Size and 
Shape Coarsening of Plate-Shaped Precipi­
tates” at 3 pm in WeH 7500. Informal discus­
sions and refreshments follow in WeH 2325. 
Dept, of Architecture Lecture. Neil 
Bradbury, Development Planner, Manch­
ester, England, speaks at 8:30 pm in WeH 
7500.
9C248on .p2se,
Pittsburgh High Technology Job Fair.
Sponsored by Career Services and Placement. 
Skibo Ballroom at 10 am - 4 pm.
French Table. The Modem Languages Dept, 
sponsors a French Language table at 11:30 am 
in the Morewood dining hall.
^ ^Wednesday
md Fup82,
‘Round Midnight, starring Dexter Gordon. 
Gordon plays Dale Turner, a black jazz man 
living in exile in Paris in 1959. Memorable 
score. Pittsburgh Playhouse at 7:30 pm and 
9:45 pm. Admission $2.95.
Stardust Memories, starring Jessica Harper 
and Charlotte Rampling. A filmmaker’s 
world begins closing in on him. Pittsburgh 
Playhouse at 7 pm and 9 pm. Admission 
$2.95.
Der Arzt Von Stalingrad, sponsored by the 
Modem Language Dept.. Film is in German 
with printed English sub-titles. Gregg Hall at 
7 pm. Admission is free.
V24eMm2,
Dept, of Architecture Seminar. Neil 
Bradbury, Development Planner, Manch­
ester, England speaks at noon in CFA 206. 
Dept, of Mechanical Engineering Graduate 
Seminar. Dr. L. G. Paparizos,Caltech, speaks 
on “Non-Linear Behavior of Pressure Fluctua­
tions in a Combustion Chamber” at 3:30 pm in 
SH 125. Refreshments are served at 3 pm in 
SH 322.
-um’,vuC,
Grad Admissions Process. If graduate of 
professional school is a consideration in your 
future, take advantage of this resource while at 
Carnegie Mellon. Learn tips on locating pro­
grams, finding dollars, and sorting through 
application procedures. Especially relevent 
for juniors. 11:30 am in Skibo Rm. 13.
9C248on .p2se,
Spanish Table. The Modem Language Dept, 
sponsors a Spanish Language table at 11:30 
am in the Morewood dining hall.
^^Thursday
Jmd J Fup82,
The Name of the Rose, starring Sean Connery 
and F. Murray Abraham. Provacative murder 
mystery set in a 14th century monastery. Pitts­
burgh Playhouse at 7:30 pm and 9:45 pm. 
Admission $2.95.
Zelig. A man takes on the characteristics of 
people he meets. Pittsburgh Playhouse at 7 pm 
and 9 pm. Admission $2.95.
My Beautiful Laundrette, sponsored by AB 
Films. DH 2210 at 6 pm, 8 pm and 10 pm. 
Admission $ 1.
-um’,vuC,
Exploring the Career Resource Library.
Learn “real world” information that can help 
you with your career choice. Get inside tips on 
identifying and researching job leads. 5 pm in 
WH Rm. 19.
9C248on .p2se,
German Table. The Modem Languages 
Dept, sponsors a German Language Table at 
11:30 am in the Morewood dining hall.
JP Friday
Æmd Fup82,
River’s Edge, starring Crispin Glover and 
Dennis Hopper. Terrifying true story of a boy 
who kills his girl friend and then brings his 
friends to see the corpse. Pittsburgh Play­
house at 7:30 pm, 9:30 pm and 11:30 pm. 
Admission $2.95.
Radio Days, starring Mia Farrow and Diane 
Keaton. Delightful nostalgic look at the glory 
days of radio. Pittsburgh Playhouse at 7 pm, 9 
pm and 11 pm. Admission $2.95.
An American Werewolf in London, spon­
sored by AB Films. DH 2210 at 6 pm, 8 pm,
10 pm and midnight. Admission $1.
9C248on .p2se,
Mary Miller Dance Company at Vista Hotel 
launches opening festivities of Benedum 
Center. The company in collaboration with 
musicians, Robbie Klein and Cecil Washing­
ton, present a work especially designed for the 
outside and moving to the inside of the hotel’s 
lobby. This work is ‘site’ oriented to the Vista 
and also designed to relate to the ribbon- 
cutting ceremony at the Benedum which 
immediately follows the Vista performance. 
The performance is at 5:30 pm and is free and 
open to the public. The ribbon-cutting cere­
mony is at 6:50 pm at Benedum Center. 
Chemistry Dept. Garage Sale. Lab Equip­
ment and instruments, glassware, antiques and 
collectibles are on sale at bargain prices at 9 
am - 3:30 pm in DH 1117.
How many Norwegians does it take to make a
baby?
Two: One to fertilize the egg, and one to make
the goat stand still.
Saturday
md p7 Fup82,
Spaceballs, starring Mel Brooks, John Candy 
and Rick Moranis, Comedy spoof of sci-fi 
movies, particularly “Star Wars”. Pittsburgh 
Playhouse at 7:30 pm, 9:30 pm and 11:30 pm. 
Admission $2.95.
Radio Days, starring Mia Farrow and Diane 
Keaton. Delightful nostalgic look at the gloiy 
days of radio. Pittsburgh Playhouse at 7 pm, 9 
pm and 11 pm. Admission $2.95.
Raising Arizona, sponsored by SDC Films. 
DH 2210 at 6 pm, 8 pm, 10 pm and midnight. 
Admission $1.
9C248on .p2se,
The Sketch Book - Quindnunc Produc­
tions’ Art Show. Features Carnegie Mellon 
Art Dept, artists. Skibo Ballroom and Gray 
Matter at 11 am - 5 pm.
9Cume,
Football. Away game against Duquesne 
University, 7 pm.
'Y^Sunday
md “ Fup82,
Otello, starring Placido Domingo. Excel­
lent film of Verdi’s great opera with a a bril­
liant performance by Domingo. Lorin Maazt 
conducts the La Scala Orchestra and Chorus. 
Pittsburgh Playhouse at 7:30 pm and 9:40 pm. 
Admission $2.95.
Manhattan, starring Mariel Hemingway. 
Fabulous Gershwin music in this witty view of 
NYC lifestyles. Pittsburgh Playhouse at 7 pm 
and 9 pm. Admission $2.95.
Allegro Non Troppo, sponsored by AB 
Films. DH 2210 at 6 pm, 8 pm, 10 pm aw’ | 
midnight. Admission $1.
Fup82,
The Seventh Seal. One of Ingmar Bergman’s 
greatest films about a disillusioned knight arnJ 
his chess game with Death. Pittsburgh Play­
house at 7:30 pm and 9:30 pm. Admission 
$2.95.
Manhattan, starring Mariel Hemingway. 
Fabulous Gershwin music in this witty view of 
NYC lifestyles. Pittsburgh Playhouse at 7 pm 
and 9 pm. Admission $2.95.
9C248on .p2se, q
Japanese Table. The Modem Language 
Dept, sponsors a Japanese Language Table at 
11:30 am in the Morewood dining hall.
Submissions
If you wish to place an announcement, miscella­neous item, or event in The Tartan, send it to _ Campus Calendar / University Relations /Carnegie Mellon University / Pittsburgh, PA 15213. Send it by campus mail to the above address or drop it off at 5017 Forbes Ave (The
house between A Y and A Ti2). •Please include the following information when submitting events: Title of event, sponsor, brief description, location, date, and time. In addition, include the name and phone number of the person submitting the entry; this information will j be used only to confirm the event.
The Tartan is not responsible for the accuracy or validity of any Event listing. In addition, it reserves the right to edit or omit any listing for publication.All events are free of charge and open to the general CMU student population unless otherwise noted.
Deadline for Calendar submissions is Wednes­
day at 5 pm for the next weeks issue.
