SENIOR WEEK 
JUNE 4 TO 9 
TAGS $3.00
COMMENCEMENT 
TUESDAY MORNING
MUSIC HALL
VOL. XIX-No. 34CARNEGIE INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY, PITTSBURGH, PENNSYLVANIATUESDAY, JUNE 2, 1925
TWENTY PROFS. 
NOT TO RETURN 
IN SEPTEMBER
Eleven From Department of 
General Studies Are 
Leaving
DRAMA DEPT. LOSES 
THREE FROM STAFF
Director Morris is Granted 
Leave of Absence After 
Long Service
Over a score of the present per­
sonal of the faculty, including Direc­
tor John T. Morris of Industries, 
will not return for the fall terra. 
The College, of Pine Arts will lose 
five:. Engineering, one; Industries,' 
one; Margaret Morrison, three, and 
the Division of General Studies, 
eleven.
Director Morris, after nin^Peen 
years of service, has been granted a 
much-earned' leave of absence. Mr. 
Morris received a degree of A. M. 
from Washington and Jefferson Col­
lege in 1903, and became a member 
of the faculty of Carnegie in 1906, 
on which he has served up to the 
present time.
In addition to Director Morris, the 
School of Industries is losing an 
instructor in forging, John Poster, 
of the Department of Machinery Pro­
duction, a Carnegie graduate, who 
has been a member of the faculty 
lor the past year.
In Arts the Drama Department is 
hard hit by the loss of three of its 
faculty: . Hubert Osborne, part time 
professor of dramatic art, who has 
been here since 1919; Bert Sabourn, 
technical director and instructor in 
stage craft for three years, and 
Pauline Potter Stuart, instructor in 
diction for a number of years.
D. Prank Sullivan, head of adver- 
tising art, and Margaret Prentice, 
instructor in ceremics, will not re­
turn, the school having withdrawn 
their two courses of instruction.
The faculty of Engineering School 
will remain intact, except for the 
resignation of Alfred T. Farrell. Mr. 
Parrel was an instructor in econom­
ics for two years and last year 
served as instructor in accounting.
Margaret Morrison1» College will 
lose three instructors of its present 
faculty personnel. They are: Ger­
trude White Hineline, instructor in 
biology since 1918; Ida Mary Hood, 
for five years an instructor, in chem­
istry, and Hazel Church McKee, an 
instructor in secretarial studies since 
1923.
On the division of General Studies 
eleven professors and instructors 
have announced their intention of 
leaving Carnegie
The list comprises the following:
Miss Hazel Knight, instructor in 
Margaret Morrison College in Edu­
cation and Psychology.
Mr. W. PI. Klar, who has ibeen as­
sociate professor of Education and 
Psychology in College of Industries 
for a number of years.
Dr. Charles Gott, associate profes- 
cor in English in Science School, 
who will become head of the English 
Department of Tuft’s College.
Prof. A. J. Garnett of the Mathe­
matics Department in Science and 
Industries.
Prof. Edwin C. Byam, instructor in 
French and Spanish in Arts School.
Mme. Eugenie Delaval, who has 
acted as part-time instructor of Mod- 
(Continued on Page Two.)
REBECCA PONTIUS PRES. 
OF Y. W. FOR NEXT YEAR
Last Monday afternoon, at 4:30 
o’clock, in the Girls’ Club Room, the 
new officers and cabinet members of 
the Y.* W. C. A. were formally in­
stalled. The installation was in the 
form of the traditional candle serv­
ice, whereby the retiring officer gave 
their responsibilities into the hands 
of the incoming officers.
The new officers of the Y. W. for 
next year are as follows:
President, Rebecca Pontius; vice- 
president, Mabel McKee; secretary, 
Lillian Swabeck; treasurer, Margaret 
Calvert’; undergraduate representa­
tive, Helen Wilson; social chairman, 
Florence Jones; chairman of finance, 
Margaret Sclineller; chairman of 
membership, Virginia Wallis; chair­
man of publicity, Gladys York; chair­
man of world's fellowship, Mary Jaye 
Cooper; chaivman of Bible study, 
Margaret Nuttall; social service 
chairman, Stella Hartman.
The Eaglesmere Conference, which 
is always looked forward to by the 
Y. W. girls, is to be held this year 
from June 19-29. The Carnegie Y. W. 
C. A. is planning to send about 12 
delegates. Miss Esther Johnston, a 
Margaret Morrison senior, and form­
er president of the Y. W. is to be 
the Student Chairman of the Eagles­
mere Conference this year.
The Y. W. cabinet is completing its 
plans for next year, and an active 
program is being drawn up. As is 
customary, the Y. W. will have charge 
of the “Big and Little Sister” move­
ment at Carnegie, and even more 
stress than usual will be placed on 
this next year.
Undergraduates Invited to SENIORS TO END
Attend Commencement Ball DAYS
IN GAY MANNER
* TARTAN WILL NOT APPEAR 
v AGAIN UNTIL FALL TERM
The climax of a long series of de­
lightful social functions will be reach­
ed next Tuesday night in the Arts 
Foyer, when the annual Commence­
ment Ball will be held. Out of the 
goodness of their hearts the grave 
old Seniors have extended a cordial 
invitation to the undergraduates, so 
the Ball will be an all-school affair; 
and as this will be the last event on 
Carnegie’s social calendar for this 
year, it is expected that a great num­
ber of underclassmen will partake of 
the Senior’s kind hospitality,' even if 
it should mean getting home a day 
later.
The Arts Foyer, which in years 
gone by has been the scene of so 
many never-to-be-forgotten revelries, 
will be decorated even more beauti­
fully and artistically than ever with 
ferns, palms, and ornate tapestries.
Tho committee has been unusually 
fortunate in engaging the Melody 
Lane Orchestra, which is composed of 
an unusually talented and clever lot 
of syncopators. They are well liked 
I around Pittsburgh and the vicinity, 
and were one of the orchestras en­
gaged for the Migratory.
Favors will be in the form of at­
tractive and novel programs, which 
will serve as a fitting reminder of a 
good party. Delicious refreshments 
will be served later in the evening in 
the Exhibition Room, which will also 
be picturesquely decorated to har­
monize with the Foyer.
Clever musicians, lovely decora­
tions, novelty programs, and deli­
cious, refreshments—what more c6uld 
one want for two-fifty? Besides, the 
committee, consisting of Cal Luud- 
(Continued on Page Two.)
CO-OP BUYING PLAN 
TO RECEIVE TRIAL
Fraternity Stewards Meet 
and Agree to Unite For 
One Month
PROMISE REDUCTIONS
The stewards of the social frater­
nities, under the leadership of F. G. 
Patterson, voted at their meeting on 
Tuesday evening, May 26, at the 
Woodlawn Club, to give the plan of 
co-operative buying a month’s trial 
in the fall, from October 1 to Novem­
ber 1, and at the end of that time 
to decide whether to carry on or to 
drop the matter-.
The buying for the month will be 
taken care of by Patterson, assisted 
by L. P. Beebe. The fee of five dol­
lars will be assessed each individual 
fraternity, but the only money to bo 
spent out of this sum will be the in­
cidental expenses of buying and 
mimeographing. At the end of the 
month, if the stewards so desire, they 
can vote to return to each partici­
pating body the balance in the trea­
sury. At this time a permanent or­
ganization and buyer will be provid­
ed if the plan works.
To put it another way,, it is cost­
ing the fraternities only one dollar to 
inaugurate the system, and on’ one 
account alone, the Rieck-McJunkin 
Dairy Company has agreed to give 
reductions amounting to more than 
five dollars per fraternity per month. 
Seemingly there is everything to gain 
and nothing to lose. As one alumnus 
puts it—"The plan is sound, let us 
try it’’.
Nine fraternities were represented 
at the meeting and it was agreed to 
canvas each organization for a de­
cision upon the plan, to find out 
whether or not the concensus of opin­
ion warrants a trial during the month 
of October.
The Steward’s Organization has 
plans for monthly meetings to dis­
cuss their problems—those of buying, 
salaries paid to help, bonuses paid 
to help, budgets, methods of accounts' 
and the training of new stewards. So 
if nothing comes from the movement 
toward co-operative buying excepting 
this organization of stewards, it will 
have been very much worth while.
INFORMAL RECEPTION 
TO BE GIVEN TO GRADS
The President's annual inception 
to -the members of the graduating 
class to, be held following the Com­
mencement Exercises in Carnegie 
Music Hall next Tuesday will be 
somewhat less formal than in former 
years, it is planned.
In a letter addressed to the sen­
iors relative to the reception, Pres­
ident Baker describes the new plan of 
placing reception committees repre­
senting the several colleges in vari­
ous parts of the foyer. In this way, 
it is hoped that the faculty will be 
given better opportunity to say good­
bye to the members of the class. Ac­
cording to the plan, President Baker, 
the speakers, and the trustees will 
be at the left of the foyer as the 
seniors leave the Music Hall, and the 
directors of the four colleges with 
certain members of the faculties "will 
be at certain designated places.
(Continued on Page Two.)
SUMMER SESSION 
STARTS JUNE 15.
Schedules Must be Arranged 
and Approved Before 
Classes Begin
EVENTS TO BE VARIED
Undergraduates who are in school 
this semester and contemplate going 
to summer school are urged to have 
their summer schedules arranged and 
approved by their advisors and by the 
Director of the Summer Session dur­
ing the week of June 1 or June S, if 
at all popssible. This will enable 
those In charge to open school on 
June 15 with the least amount of 
confusion.
During this year’s summer session, 
courses of instruction will „be given 
in the Colleges of Fine Arts, the Col­
lege of Engineering and the College 
of Industries. The tuition fee for a 
class schedule, except In surveying, 
in coal mining, and in the principles 
of music education, of nine units or 
less is $25.00; for more than nine, but 
not more than 18 units, $40.00; for 
more than 18 units, ?50.00. For those 
students who have been in school 
this semester, tuition fees for the field 
work in surveying are $6.00, $9.00 and 
$15.00 respectively for the courses of 
two, three and six weeks. The tui­
tion fee for the short course in coal 
mining Is $12.00. For students tak­
ing the course in the principles of 
music education, the foe is $10.00. In 
the Department of Music a separate 
fee of $30.00 is charged for individual 
lessons in voice, piano, organ, violin, 
and cello; and $25.00 for individual 
lessons in the wood-wind, brass, and 
percussion instruments' of the sym­
phony orchestra.
Students taking either the six 
weeks’ or three weeks' course in sur­
veying at camp should pay their in­
structional fee and the hotel fee at 
the Cashier’s office before Wednes­
day, June 10. Those who will be 
taking their two weeks’ surveying 
course on the campus will pay their 
fee of $6.00 on the first day of the 
course. Wednesday. August 26.
As has been said before, most of 
the regular faculty staff will be in 
charge of the summer school this 
year. Two members of the Depart­
ment of Physical Education and Stu­
dent Health will hold regular office 
hours for summer students and Mr.
(Continued on Page Two.)
NON-DEGREE FRAT TO BE
CALLED NU DELTA ALPHA
The Non-Degree fraternity, formed 
last year to foster hi^h scholarship 
and more general participation in 
non-curricular activities among short 
course students, has recently adopted 
Nu Delta Alpha as its official name. 
The fraternity now has fourteen 
menbers and two pledges. F. Boldryt 
student of architecture, is president, 
and PI. Estep, enrolled in the two- 
year co-operative mining course, is 
the secretary and treasurer.
The Nu Delts will in no way con­
flict with the degree fraternities, 
pledging only short course students, 
and considering as ineligible any stu- 
fent intending to enter a degree 
course in time.
Next fall the fraternity plan3 to 
establish a house, and eventually 
will petition the interfraternity coun­
cil for a non-voting membership.
Picnic, Luncheon, Theatre 
Party and Ball Will Fea­
ture Week
CLASS TAGS CAN 
NOW BE OBTAINED
Reception and Luncheon to 
be Given June 9 in the 
Music Hall
With all scholarly efforts and wor­
ries laid aside, the Seniors are now 
turning toward Senior Week. They 
hope to make this series of affairs 
a dainty morsel that will top off 
their four years of social life at Car­
negie,. and sweeten the memories of 
the last four years at- school.
The boatride and picnic on Thurs­
day, June 4, will open up the friv­
olous week for the Seniors. At 
10:30 a. m., the Homer Smith will 
leave the Wood and Water street 
dock for a two-hour journey to Wal­
nut Beach and the orchestra on 
board will provide dancing for the 
Seniors. On the beach, racing, swim- 
niing and indoor baseball will com­
prise somo of the amusements. The 
boat will return by 7:00 p. m. Every 
Senior must have a tag to go on this 
trip and if it iBn’t obtained at school 
It can be purchased, at the docks.
Tho women’s luncheon at the Me- 
Creery Gold Room will begin the fes­
tivities on Frinday, June 5. This 
will bo followed by a matinee theater 
party at the Davis Theater. Tickets 
for this affair can be purchased from 
Grace Munhall, Ida Finkol, Norn 
Henderson, Ellon toyman, Louise 
Boggus, Janet Perry.
Six o'clock Friday evening the 
men’s banquet will be hold at Hotel 
Chatham Roof Garden. Tickets are 
now on salo for $2.2i{ and they can 
be obtained from J. Qaschbach, Mar­
cus Donohue and Cm t Colvin.
Saturday, tho only, event on the 
program is the alumue t.ou to the 
Senior women wlilch will bo held 
at the M. M. Faculty Parlors from 3 
to 5 p. m.
Monday, with renewed festal spirit, 
the Soniors will play off their big 
league baseball games. Helen GIllos- 
pie is organizing two teams from 
Arts and M. M. School. Fred Mc­
Clelland has two toams from Sci 
ence, C. T. Schorr a team from In­
dustries, and Wayno Koppos has on- 
tered a team from Arts.
Who will bo the victors is still 
(Continuod on Pago Two.)
v This issue of The Tartan 4 
v will be tho last one to appear v 
v on the Carnegie Campus until •: 
<• the college reopens in tho fall, v 
The Tartan staff is going to 4 
i take a well-earned vacation dur- ?!< 
j v ing tho spinier months. The v 
j start members plau to spend v 
I this time in recuperating from v 
j v the hard wok which they put *
* in during the past year, and in %• 
j v accumulating a store of energy v 
I *!• for next year.
* The Tartan will reappear on v 
*!? tho Campus the week school
%* opens in the fall. After summer 
%• holidays the members of tho 
staff will return to their re- 
•!* spective posts with renewp- 
%* ambition, to make The Tart v
* hotter than ever before. v
; J DR. M. PUPIN, NOTED SCIENTIST 
OF COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY, TO 
BE COMMENCEMENT SPEAKER
Scientist to Speak
Commencement Day
Dr. Bowie to Preach 
The Baccalaureate
Religious Farewell in Music 
Hall, Sunday, June 7
350 Proves Average Attendance
At Course For Electric Meter men
Rev. W. Russel Bowie, D. D„ rector 
of Grace Episcopal Church in New 
York, will preach the Baccaleauroate 
sermon to the graduating class at the 
service to be held at 8:00 o’clock, 
June 7, in the Carnegie Music Hall.
Dr. Bowie, a native of Richmond, 
Va., was graduated from Harvard and 
from Union Theological Seminary in 
Virginia. He served as rector at 
Emanuel Church in Greenwood, Va., 
from 1908 to 1911, and at St. Paul’s 
Church in Richmond from 1911 to
1923. During the World War lie was 
Chaplain of Base Hospital No. 45. He 
is also the editor of the “Southern 
Churchmen" and the author of many 
well known books.
The Baccalaureate is the only ev­
ent scheduled for the Sunday of Sen­
ior Week and as a traditional event 
of all graduations is expected to at­
tract all the friends of the school 
To take care of all, the Music Hall 
has been selected as the most fitting 
place.
Dr. Bowie was secured by a spe­
cial invitation of Dr. Baker, for the 
religious farewell to the Senior Class 
of 1925, and his acceptance is very 
pleasing to those in charge of the 
event.
The Electrical and Construction 
Department held a “Short Course for 
Electric Metermen” during the week 
of May 18-23. Seventy-seven students 
and twenty-five factory representa­
tives registered, making a total of 
102 who took this special course. The 
average attendance of the lectures 
and demonstrations, which were giv­
en each of the five days in room 109, 
Industries, where 20 electric relays 
j were set up and in operation, was 
about 350.
The course was arranged and given 
under the direction of F. C. Ashe, 
head of the Electrical Equipment and 
Construction Department at C. I. T.;
| O. Buys, Superintendent, Meter and 
i Tests Department, Duquesne Light 
! Company and T. C. Pitzer, Meter En- 
i gineer, West Penn Power Company, 
j The subjects of instruction were giv-
I en by lectures, recitations, demonstra- 
I tions, and laboratory tests under the 
| supervision of F. C. Ashe. W. B. Kra- 
j mer, W. V. Jones, of the C. I. T. Elec­
trical Equipment and Construction 
j Department; C. B. Wright, F. B. Pafc- 
| terson, IT. C. Carrington, of the Du- 
I quesne Light Company; E. E. Sly and 
j L. L. Lloyd, of the West Penn Power 
j Company.
! Mr. F. C. Ashe, who had charge of 
the arrangements for the course, 
states that the course “was a success 
in its purpose to impress the meter- 
man with the importance of accurate 
metering, to give him a better under- 
I standing of the technical require- 
1 ments of electric metering, to teach 
| him the theory of operation, methods 
of testing, connecting, and mainten- 
I ance of electric meters, and to ac 
j quaint him with the latest types of 
meters and metering devjees.”
A <• <• .u •>. a •>.
SUMMER SCHEDULE FOR THE * 
LIBRARY, 1925 *
•Î* Carnegie Institute of Technology
* Hut 
Commencement, to August 7, *
•> inclusive. •!*
* Open 9 to 1 daily except Saturday
Closed.
August; 8 to September 7, Inclu- *J* 
si ve. **•
•!* Closed.
* Books may he borrowed for over-
night use each day at 12:25,
NEW DEPT. FORMED 
IN SCHOOL OF ARTS
Wilfred A. Readio is Curator 
of Decoration Dept.; Is 
Carnegie Grad.
INSURES EFFICIENCY
The Departments of Applied Art 
and Painting and Illustration. College 
of Kino Arts, have boon combinoct 
to form ono department, under the 
namo of Painting and Docoratlon. 
Wilfred Alien Readio, assistant pro­
fessor of design, has boon appointed 
curator of tho now department.
Mr. Readio reeoivod a dogreo of 
Bachelor of Arts from. Carnegie in 
1918, tho following year ho studlod 
undor Alfred Vanco Churchill and 
Charles W. Hawthorne, illo served 
as part time Instructor bore during 
the term of 1919-20, and In 1920 ho 
was awarded a fellowship from tlio 
L. C. Tiffany Foundation. Ho re­
turned to Carnegie In 1921 as an In­
structor In design, Previous to tho 
appointment to 1*Im now position ho 
sorvod as ouraitor of tho Department 
of Appllod Art.
The Department of Painting and 
Docoratlon will offer throo options 
which will cover most of tho work 
formerly offered by tho Department 
of Painting and Illustration and Ap­
plied Art. Thoso options aro paint­
ing and Illustration, normal art and 
Interior decoration, any ono of which 
load to w dogreo of Bachelor of Arts 
In Painting and Docoratlon. Tho op­
tions of advertizing design has boon 
dropped under tho new plan.
Tho consolidation of tho two de­
partments undor ono head will un­
doubtedly prove to bo moro efficient 
inasmuch as It will tend to elimin­
ate duplication of courses and rec­
ords, and It will enable tho present 
faculty to handle a larger number of 
students. The coursos will be more 
centrallzod than under tho present 
plan. Tho faculty will remain in­
tact.
WORK OF PETKOVITCH,
ART STUDENT, IS PRAISED
In tho exhibition recently held in 
the Carnegie galleries of student 
work in the Art School, attention was 
again called to the work of Milan 
Petkovitch. Mr. Petkovtlch has con­
tributed to many of the Associated 
Ariists exhibits, and to a great num­
ber of people his work is well known. 
He is associated with the painting 
and illustration department of the 
Art School, where he is a source of 
inspiration. It is rather remarkable 
that he has made such advancement, 
as he has been in the work but five 
years. Before that time his attention 
was given to the church.
Mr. Petkovitch is very interesting 
in both his subject matter and in his 
color. His drauglitmanship is well 
shown in his nude studies, and his 
grotesques painted in his illustrations 
for fairy tales are pleasing in their 
design as well as color. He is one of 
the most promising men that has 
been associated with the college, and 
a great deal la expected of him in the 
future.
Eminent Inventor and Physi­
cist Has Remarkable Career 
as Leader in Field
LARGEST CLASS- 
354—TO GRADUATE
MICHAEL I. PUPIN
Twenty-Six Receive 
Army Appointments
Reserve Corps Commissions 
Are Awarded
Twonty-six Curnoglo men will re- 
colvo commissions as Socond Lieu­
tenants In the Reservo Officers Corps 
when tho appointments aro made this 
June. Thoso men have nil complet­
ed the four year course In military 
training and have In addition attend­
ed an R. O. T. C. summer camp of 
six weeks.
The majority of tho men are grad­
uating from the Engineering Unit: 
and aro: T. I,. Blobor, 1C. E. Caine,
J. B. Drongwltz, G, W. Dullu, 0. A. 
Elehonlnub, It. W. Fmp.I.qu,- W-.M. Gib­
son, A. Grodnor, L. IT. Harris, F. C. 
Hoonlngor, J. D. Jnromn, I). Masito* 
vltz, F. E. Powers, F. It. Shunllll, A.
F. Sltipp, L. P. Stlmlor and J. I’. 
Wargo.
In the Signal Corp Unit, ,T. 8. Am­
brose, P. M, Mlssom, 111. C. .Tatum, W. 
A. Wolday and P. M. Wells will re­
ceive commissions,
In addition to thoso, corl.illcatos of 
credit will ho awarded to C. B. Holst, 
J. If. Silverman, J. F, Sellers, and W. 
C!, Winning for having completed tho 
course, but since thoso men are un- 
dor age, thoy will not receive com­
missions until thoy attain tliolr ma­
jority, when tho appointments will 
automatically follow.
Though tho acceptance of thoso 
commissions Is not obligatory, It Is 
only In rare ciases that a student re­
fuses the honor and tho attendant 
prlvllogos. Thoso men aro sll well 
versed In their respective fields and 
In case of necessity will ho of groat 
valuo to their country. Thoy are to 
bo congratulated upon their patriot­
ism and the acceptance of the re­
sponsibility which SE theirs as a citi­
zen of this country.
LOCAL STUDENTS WILL 
ATTEND T CONFERENCE
Carnegie Tech will be represented 
at the Y. M. C. A. Summer Confer­
ence at Silver Bay on Lake George, 
New York, by E. C. Frazier, K. S. 
Lindauer, Lloyd Yoder. Chad Foller, 
Eddie Wright, J. L. Seaman, Pop Al­
len, John Carr, Ray Gill, Alfonso De 
Jesus, Y. Ugi and Mike Goodwin.
Men from over seven ty-four of the 
largest- colleges and universities in 
fch’6 east will assemble on June 11 for 
eight days of fellowship in tennis, 
baseball, track, swimming, hiking, 
canoeing and the like.
The main object of the conference 
is to endeavor to find out the mean­
ing of religion and its application to 
the college student. Such speakers 
as A. R. Petty, Harry E. Fosdielc, J. 
Stitt Wilson, J. L. Scattergood, John 
R. Mott, Sherwood Eddy and Ray­
mond Fosdielc, will endeavor to lead 
the discussion.
R.O.T.C. Drill is Broadcast By KDKA; 
Novel Idea Worked Out By Local Corp.
*!• Arts Branch
•!* Commencement to August 7, * 
inclusive.
v Open 9 to 12. 1 to 5, daily except •’*
-!• Saturday. •>
-> Closed. *
%• August 8 to September 7, inclu- * 
v siye.
*** Closed. *j.
-!• *!* v •!« -> * v- * A A A ?*. J. J. J. J. »*•
Last Saturday evening, as the na­
tion adjusted its headphones, leaned 
back In Its chair and wished for the 
I hundredth time that the day would 
soon arrive whori tho usual program 
I of weather forecasts, music, hog quo­
tations, bedtime stories and more 
music; would bo changed by the ad­
dition of something now: or at least 
by the reversing of the usual o'hlov, 
their wish was gratified.
I Suddenly the ether conveyed to 
their astounded ears the sharp com­
mands given to an army on parade. 
All listened raptly, thinking that 
surely they were hearing the orders 
Issued during a great Memorial Day 
j parade.
I Scarcely had the last cry of “halt’' 
idled out e’er phones were tossed 
I aside, and a wild search made for 
| the evening paper. Hurriedly scan-
I iilng Its columns they found in the 
farthest corner of the last page, of 
course, the radio program. There, in 
hold print before tliolr afd.onlshed 
eyes was tho following: 8:30—stim­
ulated drill on Carnegie Tech Cam­
pus. Commands given by Cadet Ma­
jor Knight, and Cadet Captains 
i Hughes, Harris and L’heureux, of the 
jit. O. T. C.
Another milestone had been passed
I In the onward march of the Tt. O. T.
another success had been added 
(o their already long list of mie- 
cesses; for this, an entirely new Idea, 
had ^fiean conceived and executed 
solely by the Military Department of 
the Scients with the aid of the stu­
dent officers. The co-operation of 
the officials of KDKA was aim par­
tially responsible for the results of 
this undertaking.
W ill Hold Exercises at Music 
Hall Tuesday Morning, 
June 9, at 10:30
The Commencement speaker at this 
year’s graduation exorcises next 
Tuesday morning will bo Dr. Michael
1. Pupin, inventor, scientist, and Pro­
fessor of Electro-Mechanics at Col­
umbia University. The exercises will 
be held in Carnegie Music Hall, and 
tho largest class ever to leave Carne­
gie— 354 students—will be graduat­
ed.
Dr. Pupin, born in tho country ham­
let. of ldvor, Hungary, is a remark­
able example of the rise of a man of 
no distinguishing background, to an 
onvlable position in tho field of re­
search, through his contributions to 
tho advancement of scionco and 
civilization. Ho enmo to America at 
an early ago, and in his own words 
gives credit to Booth’s presentation 
of Shakespeare, tho sermons of Hen­
ry Ward Boochor, and a olmnoo ac-, 
quaintanooshilp with (ho Latin and 
Greolc writers, ns tho groatost inllu- 
enco In his education. At this time 
ho was unable to decido whether to 
pursue scionco or to turn t.o literary 
lines, but ho finally dot.ormlned to 
follow Faraday and Maxwoll and 
seek an answer to tho question, 
What Is light?”
Degree upon degree quickly follow­
ed oach other, overy honor that Ber­
lin and Cambridge could givo man 
boonnio his, and he soon became a 
recognized loader In the Holds of light; 
mid electricity. Twenty-five years 
ago he booamo instructor In (lie new­
ly established Department; of Ifllec- 
trlcal Engineering at Cojcnibun Vnl-
vnmlty. With a mero handful of stu­
dent, scant; apparatus and equipment, 
and a little brlclc building dubbed 
"The Cowshed” by tho students, the 
beginnings of oloctrlcal engineering 
as a university subject In America 
wero brought about. Tt was In this 
snmo "cowshed" that the series ol! 
deductions 'started that led to his In­
vention of electric tuning. Applying 
to Rowland’s distorted alternili liig 
currents Helmholtz's general princi­
pals In Ills analysis of sounds, elec­
tric rosonatlon resulted.
All this but proves that Dr. Pupin 
Is ono of tho fow men who are equally 
eminent In theoretical research and 
In tho practical applications of sci­
ence, Recently ho has been made 
president; of the American Association 
for tho Advancement-of Science, on 
basis of his being ono of our groat; 
nmthmntlenl physicists and also ono 
of our greatest; electrical Inventors.
MATRIMONY CLAIMS 
OUR DEAN OF WOMEN
Tho Tartan takes this opportunity 
to announce officially that Denii 
Brown will not return next fall. Al­
though It has been known at Carne­
gie for some months that Miss "Brown 
Is to bo married. It is hard to realize 
that next yoar will not see her on the 
campus as Dean of Wo non. Miss 
Brown’s marriage to James Madison 
Graham of ibis city, is tc take place 
June 13. After a short vacation, 
Miss Brown will return to Carnegie 
to bo here for six weeks during the 
summer.
Miss Brown is a graduate or Smith 
College In the class of 1918; Tn 1919 
she received her Master of Arts de­
gree from the University of Missouri. 
She was associated for a time with 
the Business Women’s Club of Mobile, 
Alabama, and later held a position in 
the office of the Dean of Women at 
the University of Missouri. Previous 
to coming here, Miss Brown was as­
sistant Dean of Women at Ohio State 
from 1920 to 1922. At Ohio State 
she was also an instructor in Soci­
ology. Since coming to Carnegie 
Miss Brown has taken a real Interest, 
and an active part in various wo­
men’s organizations In Pittsburgh.
The position of Dean of Women Is 
not ono that may be lightly under­
taken. Few of us realize the amount 
of work Hint Miss Brown has been 
responsible for. Besides acting In an 
advisory capacity to the Women’s 
Dormitory Council, MI««j Brown Is al­
so advisor to tho various women’s 
organizations on the campus. Through 
lior office recommendations arc made 
for student; loans and scholarships. A 
record of each girl's scholarship and 
activities Is kept In her office, and In 
this way Miss Brown is In touch with 
every Carnegie girl.
All that Miss Brown has done for 
Carnegie women will come home to 
us more clearly as time goes on. Next 
fall we will miss the faces of many 
friends and probably none so much as 
flint of our present Dean of Women. 
The new Dean has niyi been selec­
ted/ and whoever slie may be it will 
be difficult for het to do nil that Miss 
Brown had done unless she lias Ihe 
cooperation of the students. One 
(Continued on Page Two.)

---------------------------------------------------

PAGE TWOTHE CARNEGIE TARTANTUESDAY, JUNE 2, 1925
Published every week by undergraduate« of the Carnegie institute of 
Technology under the supervision of the Student Council,
Entered in the Postonico of Pittsburgh as second-classmatter.
EDITOR-IN-CHIEF
ASSOCIATE EDITORS
J. M. GOSSR. R. SITZLER
MANAGING EDITOR
JOE CRISTOFF....................................................................
R. L. LEPPEIl, Assistant..................................................
M. T. IIOLLINSHEAD, Assistant...................................
. .Schonloy 9285 
...Sohonloy 9122 
..........Hazel 9422
NEWS EDITOR8
F. A. KOLB......................................................................................Hazel 9310
.Highland 9525-J
ALUMNI EDITOR
REPORTERS
M. Tucker, M. Nuttall, M. Cohen, F. L. Grant, IS. 
gold, N. Kelly, M. Stump, R. M. Pew, F. O. Woods, 
Feldstoln.
Ross, F. Finn, A. Win- 
C. Neu, C. Hartung, L.
ATHLETIC EDITOR
ATHLETIC CONTRIBUTORS
J. F. Harris, C. F. McWilliams, 1). M. Davidson, Bon Krlstof, J. R. Bracken.
BUSINESS MANAGER
.Franklin G547-.7
ADVERTISING MANAGER
CIRCULATION MANAGER
Highland 4170-11
BUSINESS ASSISTANTS
J. W. Metro, N. Alexander, J. L. Bauerlo, J. P. Strizak, B. Supowltz. L. 
Sachs, H. Kandoll, A. C. Hough, F. W. Mooro, It, L. Cribble, Gladys Reynolds, 
W. A. Bornardl, J. M„ Alrgood, A. C, Campbell, It. S. Boyd.
The Editor-In-Chief Is responsible for the policy ol! 
Managing Editor for the muko up.
this paper; tho
The Tartan welcomes all communications of student Interest, If signed. 
Signature will be withheld If desired. All news IteniB must be In the student 
post olllce before 4:3o Thursday.
Turtun Ollico—Room 5, Industries Building. Office hours—Dally 12:30- 
1:20.
The Week 
in the 
World’s News
By Leslie P. Beebe
-September 11 and 12 Are Set as Official Dates
For Registration For Next College Year
NEW TORCHES
Soon you must leave us. »Soon, the loam of the gridiron, the 
dust oil the worshop alone 'will hold your impress. Names in the long 
roll ol: graduates; images in the great volumes oi! annuals; but as 
personalities—gone! A cruel fate! And yet, Carnegie gave you all 
she had to give, or at least offered all she had to offer. Perhaps, if 
she were not so magnanimous, the debt would really be on your side. 
"Why not clear the books? After all, you have nothing to lose—as 
yet.What does Carnegie need? "What can a school so rich in endow­
ments ask of a mere boy, a mere child facing the great bogeyman tor 
the first time?
Carnegie needs advice. She is as young as you are. She faces 
many problems for which no precedent guides her footsteps. You are 
entering the world into which your. Alma Mater brought you. Tell 
her what you meet there. Tell her how she might better have pre­
pared you for the lil!c struggle.
Carnegie needs prestige. We know that she is the grandest on 
earth—but''competition is keen, the world is cynical, and the acid test 
ol! time has not yet proven her mettle. Fight for her glory, sing out 
her praises, lot the world know that you are as proud of Dear Old 
Tech as she is proud of you. And send her more children to train 
send her the boys that you known will make good.
Carnegie noeds inspiration. When the memorable, days of the 
Pitt battle and of Campus Week roll round, let us point proudly to 
you as we toll the awed IMeblings, “There is a man who made things 
liunil” We will see you later, old friends; your impress is on our 
hearts.
EYES THAT SEE NOT
“This is the house that Jack built. This is the mouse that lives 
in the house * * *” Do you remember the little nursery ditty to 
which I refer? Somehow’, that little sing-song paragraph always 
calls to mind a series ol! concentric spheres, all enclosing a central 
idea, each adding ils bit to an over-growing "body ol! facts, yet in­
cluding all those other spheres, never losing that central idea. And 
further, that vision of I he concentric spheres is the image of any 
period in your life.
.lust at present, your purposo in life is to educate yourself. Of 
course, education in a broad sense will »ilways be your goal; but here 
I speak ol! education in a narrower, more worldly way. Hlconomies 
and psychology, the business cycle and personnel mauagemenl those 
are your specific interests. You spend hours and hours each week 
studying the various phases, You read, debate, expostulate almost 
dream economics. Every day you add another shell to the groat sys­
tem of book knowledge that you are developing. The spheres have 
become so heavy that they no longer can support their own weight, 
A new shell, a binding wall of double strength is needed.
Tomorrow school days end. .Tomorrow vacation begins. Tomor­
row you lay aside your books for a time, to take a position, no doubt, 
in the business world. You take a position in full view ol! a prac­
tical demonstration of those very principles you have been studying, 
lint will you watch, even out of the corner of your eye, while this 
life-size model goes through the movements you have been studying 
in miniature? Will you add that outer shell of double strength that 
is to be a foundation for a new and greater series of spheres? No. 
You want to rest. You are tired of this constant vigilance.
And when you come back in September, when you take up your 
text again, as you add fragile new veneers to the great sphere you 
laid aside for the summer, a slow crumbling will begin within—:at 
the point where the double wall is missing. ^
And are you the only one who will suffer? No, I will too—and 
from the same cause—thank God for that!
ADIEU
With this issue our efforts for the year are completed, examina­
tions herald the coming of summer with its inactivity, and our work 
for the next few months will not appear in this column, to be ignored, 
contested or in rare eases agreed with.
The Tartan has endeavored to deal, in a manner eager and truth­
ful, though perhaps inexperienced, with the happenings of interest 
to the students, with conditions and reforms, and with tendencies 
that seemed detrimental to our Institute. ¦
In this attempt our aim has been to give correct facts, good taste 
in the written word, and suggestions based on thoughtful judgment 
avoiding both venom and mildness.
It is a job that must be done, and it has fallen to the Tartan 
to do it, but there is one consolation in that for this year the finis 
has boon written. And now things that loomed as Gibralters at the 
hour of shouting, will fade and die as quiescence replaces activity. 
We take our lcavo until September._______________________________'
12:30 P. M 
2:30 P. M 
6:00 P. M
8:00 P. M
10:00 A. M 
2:30 P. M 
5:30 P. M, 
8:00 P. M
10:30 A. M 
12:30 P. M. 
9:00 P. M.
Senior Week Program
THURSDAY, JUNE FOURTH 
—Senior Boot Rldo and Picnic.
FRIDAY, JUNE FIFTH
Women's Luncheon ........................................... MoCreery'c
.—Women's Matinee Theater Party...............................Davis
.—Men's Banquet ...........................................Morrowflotd Hotel
SATURDAY, JUNE SIXTH
.—Alumnae Tea to Women.....................M. M. Faculty Room
SUNDAY, JUNE SEVENTH 
.—Baccalaureate Sermon
MONDAY, JUNE EIGHTH
.—Inter-Department Baseball Games...................................Bowl
.—Joint Swim....................................................................New Gym
,—Class Supper...........................................................Carnegie Inn
.—“Fantasticks”—Drama Department............Sylvan Theater
TUESDAY, JUNE NINTH
,—Commencement Exercises.......................................Music Hall
—Reception by President Baker...............................Arts Foyer
—Commencement Ball.
should preserve this calendar Os it is the only published
N' V . \
1. Rubber Pays England's War Debt 
to United 8tatea.
2. Taxpayer« Names and Amount no 
Socrct.
3. National Air Transport Company 
Organized.
Up to 1010 the greater part of the 
world’» rubber was "wild" rubber and 
came from brazil. British capital­
ists became Interested In the growth 
of rubber on plantations in the 13ust 
Indies Invested their money, and to­
day that area controls two-thirds of 
the world's total yearly production 
with Brazil far behind.
The price of rubber wont down at 
the close of the war to eleven cents* 
which was a good bit below the cost 
of production and as a result, the 
Stevenson Act was passed by the 
English Colonial authorities which 
decreased the amount of rubber al­
lowed to bo exported when the price 
was low and increased it when the 
price went up.
The situation just now has come 
to a head with the report of the Sec­
retary of Commerce, who has inves­
tigated the matter. 1-Ie finds that we 
consume seventy per cent of the 
world's rubber and that our rubber 
bill this year will roughly estimate 
$400,000,000, the profits from which 
umount "will pay England’s war debt 
to us.
This statement which looks start­
ling in headlines is only another il­
lustration of the law of supply and 
demand. The only answer is to in­
vest our capital and energies in 
Brazil or the Philippines so that there 
may be competition.
The Supreme Court this past week 
has established the fact that Con­
gress meant to abandon the policy of 
keeping the amount' of income taxes 
paid and the names of the taxpayers 
secret and therefore the newspapers 
will be at liberty to publish those 
without tear of violating the law.
The National Aid Transport Com­
pany was organized last week to 
transport freight and express from 
New York to Chicago, but no pas­
sengers. The organization is com­
prised of thirty-five men, with such 
names as William Wrlgley, Jr., Mar­
shall Field, III, Edsel Ford, Wright, 
etc., in the lists- If Is understood 
that Mr, Ford will do a good part of 
the plane construction for the com­
pany.
SUMMER SESSION
STARTS JUNE 15
(Continued From Page One)
Beulcema will net as instructor in 
swimming and will have general 
charge of thn gymnasium and the 
swimming pool.
A good time along with the cur­
riculum Is assured to those who in­
tend to come to summer school. A 
uumbor of social event will bo ar­
ranged not only for the various de­
partmental student groups but also 
for the whole student body. The pro- 
gram for tho summer or 192<l Includ­
ed a lawn party, a musical program 
and reception, a boat rldo, and a 
dnnco, the last; two events wore held 
jointly with summer students and 
thi' faculty of tho University of Pitts­
burgh. n is also intended to make 
some week-end excursions and visits 
to Homo Of the Industrial plants and 
to various other points of Interest in 
the Pittsburgh district.
Students will he glad to know that 
tho Carnegie Inn will servo luuehoon 
week-days except Saturday and tho 
drill Room will he open daily 1‘rom 
7:M0 a. m. to mid-night. Meals and 
lunches will be served at the hours 
Indicated.
TWENTY PROFS NOT TO
RETURN IN SEPTEMBER
(Continued From Pago One)
,ern Languages in Arts School for a 
.number of years.
Mr. Clurenco Greenhood, instructor 
in English, for both Arts and Science.
Mr. Davkl Jack, who has served 
as assistant professor of Mathemat­
ics for the past year.
Mr. James LeGraiul, .instructor in 
Mathematics and Schience School.
Mr. Earl T. Reed, who has acted 
as part-time instructor in Industrial 
Science for the past several years.
Dr. F. J. Tsciian, assistant pro- 
essor of History and political Sci­
ence.
UNDERGRADUATES INVITED TO
ATTEND COMM. BALL
(Continued From Page One.) 
quist, chairman. Frank Powers, Dun­
can Doig, and Joe Steen, have decid- 
od to do away with all troublesome 
formalities, and the affair will be 
strictly informal. iSO come one, come 
all, help tho Seniors celebrate their 
liberation from those halls of learn­
ing, and have a good time yourself 
at this last, farewell dance.
SCHENLEY THEATER
Ulg photoplay productions and ex­
cellent added attractions, including 
tho appearance of ono of the world’s 
most talented violinists, will make 
up the programs presented next week 
in the Sohonloy theater. On Monday, 
Tuesday and Wednesday the feature 
picture will be "Broken Laws", Mrs. 
Wallace Reid’s entertaining story of 
modern life. Thursday. Friday and 
Saturday will bring tho screening of 
“Bad Company”, which features 
Madge Kennedy and Conway Tearle. 
Mischel ICurzene. distinguished Rus­
sian violinist, with Vonya Alexaudre 
at the piano, will be the wonderful 
added musical attration.
Broken Laws” is a story about our 
jazz-mad age. It concerns a mother 
and son, and the disastrous effect of 
too much love and attention on the 
life of this boy.
Registration dates for the nexti 
college year have been definitely 
scheduled for Friday, September 11, 
and Monday, September 14. All stu- 
dets who are free from any condi­
tions whatsoever must register on 
the first date, September 11. Those 
who are to be admitted with condi­
tions, or those who must take re-ex- 
amlnatlons In order to determine! 
their status, will be required to reg­
ister on the second date, September 
14, It Is hoped that this new sys­
tem will do away with the difficul­
ties the registrar has formerly ex­
perienced when the great majority of
sLudents waited until the last day 
to register.
Apropos of re-examlnations, all 
those who have for I grades on their 
final reports must register during 
the summer if they wish to take re­
examinations in the fall. The regis­
trar will make another statement to 
this efrect when the final grades are 
mailed during the summer. No ex­
amination will be given in any course 
in which no one has registered.
Students will be permitted to take 
re-examinations only in those sub­
jects In which they have received 
an For and I grade. No student will 
be permitted to take a re-examination
in any course in which he has re­
ceived a passing grade, for the pur­
pose of raising his number of points 
for quality, as has formerly been 
the practice. This is a new ruling 
which is included in the most recent 
edition of the White Eook, and goes 
into effect immediately. Re-examina­
tions have been scheduled for the 
three days beginning September 10: 
A great nunmber of applications 
for admission into the Institute have 
already been received by the Regis­
trar’s Office. This number is about 
10 per cent of an increase over the 
number for any corresponding time 
in past years.
SMART ALEC AND AMARYLLIS
QUESTIONNAIRE SHOWS 
FOUR ACTIVITIES LEAD
Again the year book of C. I. T„ The 
Thistle, Is out- The quality of the 
art work has seldom been equalled, 
originality has been shown in every 
department, and a great deal of time, 
work und energy has been expended 
by the entire board in making this 
a great year book.
But why, we all ask, must so much 
good work be ruined by the careless­
ness of a few? No cheaper humor has 
ever been seen in a Carnegie Thistle. 
There would seem to be no excuse 
for not checking over the faculty lists 
and getting the ranking correct or of 
placing on the faculty men who have 
left the institution: no excuse for the 
use of wrong names beside a stu­
dent’s picture or no excuse for using 
the cut of one organization as repre­
senting another: no excuse for using 
the cut of last year’s athletic council 
over this year’s lis: of names.
The humor is cheap and crude, 
smacking of a small town high school 
and if that is what the hoard wished 
to attain, then the results warrant 
their efforts.
How much bettor it would have 
been, as is done in most other schools, 
to have a section devoted to the hum­
orous side of our college life, rather
SENIORS TO END COLLEGE
DAYS IN GAY MANNER
(Continued From Page One.) 
perturbing many of the Seniors’ 
minds and at present, there seems 
to be no favorites. According to 
dope, new records in base-stealing 
and home runs are expected. Follow­
ing the games there will be tho 
Men’s and Women’s swim. In con­
sulting with the weather forecaster: 
Monday afternoon will break all rec­
ords for heat and then watch the 
Seniors take a cool dip.
0:30 p. m., Monday, at the Carne­
gie Inn, the Senior class will hold 
their class supper. This will be the 
only affair that tho Seniors will have 
to themselves. This supp'er will be 
informal and ltjts ol' entertainment 
and good cheer will be present 
throughout the evening. The class 
supper is included in the tags.
"Fiuitustics” will bo presented at 
8:00 o’clock in the Sylvan Theater. 
Parents or friends can be invited for 
tho show.
Tuesday, .limo !), with a sheepskin 
in hand and with an eagerness to go 
Into tho cold, cold world—but the 
Seniors should not be too eager to 
1 eayo, For there is a reception and 
luncheon, in their honor, will be hold 
In iho foyer of the Carnegie Music 
Hall and all Seniors should ho pres­
ent.
Lust but not least, , is the Com­
mencement Ball, which will he held 
from II p. m. to 1 a. m., in the Col­
lege of Pino Arts.
Tho Senior Week Committee wish­
es that the entire Senior class would 
co-operate with them and buy class 
tags immediately. Tlioso tags will 
take a, couple on the boat ride, will 
provide for ono plate at the Senior 
class supper und will be good for 
tll'ty cents on the 'Commencement 
ball ttclcls. A.l Mellor Is in charge 
of the sales of tags. Fred Smith is 
in charge of Science, Marcus Dono­
hue in industries, John Carr in Arts 
and Ida Finkel in M. M. Tags can 
be obtained from any of the above 
committee.
MATRIMONY CLAIMS
OUR DEAN OF WOMEN
(Continued on Pase Two.) 
way for the student body to show its 
appreciation to Miss Brown will be to 
help her successor in every way pos­
sible with a spirit of friendliness and 
co-operation.- This spirit, we believe, 
the student body will be more than 
willing to furnish.
Flap: I see she is wearing her
stockings sausage style now.
Per: How is that?
Flap: Below knee.—Penn Punch
Bowl.
than trying to mix it in where it is 
so decidedly out of place.
The year book is a senior record 
and as such should be well put to­
gether, dignified, and correct. The 
senior always keeps it on his shelf or 
near him to look back on with pride, 
to show to his family and particular­
ly to his children. The book fails 
utterly in satisfying the above de­
mands and leaves the soniors with 
no permanent record that they can 
be proud of. May next year’s board 
profit by the mistakes of their pre­
decessors!
A SENIOR.
To The Officers And Men of Co. B:
?I wish to commend and thank the 
men of the company for the wonder­
ful support the gave the officers of 
the company, and the officers for their 
help to me.
As a result of this support the 
company commander was awarded 
the Prize Sam Brown Belt for the 
success of the company in competi­
tion.
May the company stay together and 
win all honors next year!
L. H. HARRIS III,
____________________Captain, Co. B.
Two Mentioned For 
Foreign Scholarship
Senior and Grad. Architects 
Among Five to Compete
Carnegie Tech architects will have 
two chances in five to win the Stew- 
ardson Traveling Scholarship this 
year according to a report received 
yesterday- from the Beaux Arts Insti­
tute of Design notifying the local in­
stitution that Wayne F. Koppes, a 
senior in the Department of Architec­
ture, and George Iv. Fauly, a graduate 
had been selected among the five final 
competitors for the coveted prize.
The Stewardscn Scholarship car­
ries a value of $1,000 and entitles tho 
holder to a year’s study in Europe. 
It is offered annually by the Beaux 
Arts Institute to all architects who 
have studied or practiced architec­
ture in the StaLe of Pennsylvania for 
nt least óno year immediately pre­
ceding tho scholarship award, and 
who are between the ages of 22 and 
30 years.
The prize has already been won by 
graduates of Carnegie Institute of 
Technology three times since 101(5. 
In 1916 it was won by Herman L. 
Rubin, in 1921, Russell S. Simpson 
was the winner, and in 1923, Otto 
M. Olson won the award.
Ivonnes will bo graduated next Juno 
with an A. B. degree from tho Depart­
ment (of Architecture. Pauly, who 
was graduated in 1922, was previous­
ly honored this year by receiving hon­
orable mention In the national copi- 
petitlon for the Le Brun Traveling 
Scholarship, which was won by Clar­
ence W. Hunt, also a graduate of 
Carnegie Tech.
INFORMAL RECEPTION
TO BE GIVEN TO GRADS
(Continued From Page One.)
In his letter, President Baker urges 
the seniors' to look up their friends 
in the faculty and introduce their 
parents and guests to them. The ex­
ercises will take place immediately 
after the Commencement exercises 
a/ul before the luncheon.
No Adulteration Possible There.
There are many odd and Interesting 
sights to be seen in Paris. Some of 
them would surprise the American boy 
or girl. In the older sections of the 
city the milkman goes from door to 
door, playing his “Pan Pipes” (a 
bunch of reeds tied together) and fol­
lowed by his flock of goats, ready to 
be milked. lie stops before the door 
of each of Vis “regular customers,” 
who are sure of srettine fresh milk.
Tentative results of the question­
naires that were submitted to the stu­
dents in the College of Engineering, 
as to the hours spent on activities 
other than school work seem to in­
dicate that their extra time is taken 
up in outside work, outside pleasures, 
fraternity activities and athletics.
Suggestions received with the ques­
tionnaires have been frank, outspok­
en opinions of the students concern­
ing their ideas as to the relation of 
activities to school work at Carnegie. 
The men in charge of the investiga­
tion feel that results can be attained 
only by expression of the students, 
and it is this they are seeking.
Various special work such as com­
mittees, officers of classes, and pub­
lications have affected only a few. 
Outside work caused by necessity 
scores heavily, pleasures as was ex­
pected occupy considerable time, fra­
ternities demand a portion of the off 
hours, and athletics require a large 
share of the out of school time.
When the complete results have 
been compiled, the findings of the 
committee will be presented to Dean 
Mott in a report. The final achieve­
ment based on tills report will come 
in future plans of the college.
He: Pardon me. May I have this
dance?
She: No. I'm too danced, out.
He: You’re not too damn stout.
You’re just pleasingly plump.
—Cornell Widow.
First Unitarian Church
Ellsworth and Morewood Aves.
L. Walter Mason, D.D., Minister 
Sunday School, 9:45 A. M. 
Preaching Service, 11:00 A. M. 
Young People’s Meeting, 6:30 
P. M.
Special Invitation to Students.
First Church of Christ, 
Scientist
Clyde Street, Near Fifth Avenue 
Sunday, 11 A. M. and 8 P. M. 
Wednesday, 8 P. M. 
Sunday School, 11 A. M.
Personally, I like an occasional sun­
dae when it is well made and well 
served. Especially in the springtime. 
This play of Mr. Fitzhugh’s does not 
profess to be anything more than a 
sundae, light sweet, wholesome, and 
adequately flavored. It is pleasant of 
its kind. It does not attempt the 
emotional tension and melodramatic 
eventfulnes of the Lioness, Mr. Fitz- 
hugh’s earlier play. Even its mirth 
is of a lighter order, wit rather than 
humor. One misses the deep, rich 
characterization of that unforgivable 
bridge party. But this play sparkles 
delightfully, sending little ripples of 
laughter over the audience from the 
first curtain to the last.
If it be not ungracious to criticize 
what one has so heartily enjoyed, I 
would have liked to see this spark­
ling surface -of a play take on a third 
dimension by a little more humane 
interest in the tragedy of the middle 
aged woman supplanted by youth. 
For however a woman may recognize 
her folly in loving a man younger 
than herself, it hurts. Or was Mrs. 
Maynadier already beginning to be a 
little bored by the juvenile efferves- 
ence of her Sacha, and was she too 
glad to escape from the match? In 
either case, I -wish the author had 
not left her quite so unexplained at 
the end.
Mr. Wallace gave the whole play 
just the right production, emphasiz­
ing the atmosphere of charm which 
is the keynote. A dainty setting, 
good business, careful casting with 
actors who brought requisite shades 
of personality. These went far to 
give the play its undoubted success.
The actors did excellent work. Jan­
et Millis has a special gift for por­
traying youth cool, sweet and spark­
ling as spring water. Mary Brown 
has a similar gift for aristocratic 
middle age. And Hardie Albright 
“was to perfection the delightful, im­
pudent young genius. Harry Mervis 
had a harder task in appearing a 
coarse bully, but by a sheer feat of 
acting he managed to get it across. 
Vernie Haldene had once more one 
of the sophisticated, oblique comedy 
parts which he does so well. Eliza­
beth Sowersby made good comedy of 
her part. Query; was the part of 
'Meta just a little too disagreeable to 
be probable as a friend whom Mrs. 
Maynadier would choose for an auto 
trip, and if so, was the difficulty in 
the acting or in the lines. I had a 
passing sense of too much mustard. 
Ben Ford hit the genial awkwardness 
of Amby well, and Mabel Eichler was 
very convincing as Addy. Mary Pow­
er as the temperamental servant lift­
ed a bit to a degree of excellence out 
of all proportion to the slightness of 
the part. Her entrance just before 
she dropped the dishes was a thing to 
remember. Perrin also has a talent 
for making bits Tinforgettable.
Tf tho play could bo a little cut in 
a few talky places, and a little emo­
tionally deopened, one would pro­
phesy for it a wider public than the 
Arts theater. However, as it is. It 
is a delightful e evening’s entertain­
ment..
ALLENE GREGORY.
Dumb: Hey, fellah, you want to
pull down the shades when you kiss 
your wife. * 1 saw you last night.
Dumber: Ha-ha. the joke’s on you. 
I wasn’t home last night.
SCHENLEY s£Ss
25c THEATER " 25c
CONTINUOUS 2 TO 11 P. M.
ENTERPRISES THEATERS CO. HARRY DAVIS, General Manager
MONDAY, TUESDAY AND WEDNESDAY, JUNE 1, 2 AND 3“Broken Laws”
The Great Drama of Modern Conditions, featuring MRS. WALLACE 
REID, ARTHUR RANKIN, RAMSEY WALLACE, PERCY MAR- 
MONT, JACQUELINE SAUNDERS AND PAT MOORE.
THURSDAY, FRIDAY AND SATURDAY JUNE 4, 5 AND 6 
CONWAY TEARLE and MADGE KENNEDY in“Bad Company”
Comedy, Thrills, Drama and Romance Supreme.
WEEK Mischel Kurzene WEEK
Distinguished Russian Violinist
COMEDY, NEWS REELS AND NOVELTY FILMS 
Complete Change of Program Monday and Thursday. 
PLENTY OF PARKING SPACE AT THE SCHENLEY
<9\of
C£o rjies
HATS ^ HABERDASHERY 
SHOES
Mf
To)
At Wm. Penn Hotel 
Tomorrow & Friday 
Jim Boyle, Rep.
Fifth Avenue at 46th St. 
NEW YORK.
I

---------------------------------------------------

TUESDAY. JUNE 2, 1925THE CARNEGIE TARTANPAGE THREE
First rUniaUsCh
&
FOUR GAMES WON 
BY SKIBOS; 6 LOST
Statistics Skow Tartans Had 
Fairly Good Baseball Tearn 
This Year
A few statistics have been compil­
ed regarding the baseball team which 
¦closed its season in a game against 
.Bethany last week.
Originally fourteen games had been 
•scheduled, but the games against 
Bucknell and Juniata on the second 
eastern trip had to be cancelled on 
account of rain, another against 
Grove City was halted in the second 
Inning at Forbes Field by a downpour 
.-and the St. Bonaventure contest was 
called off because of cold weather- 
Thus only ten games were played.
Of these ten games, Carnegie won 
lour and lost six. The teams defeat­
ed were Penn State, Bethany, Buclc- 
nell and Juniata. Defeats were suf­
fered at the hands of Penn State, 
Grove City, Bethany, Georgetown, St. 
Johns and Navy.
.Wally Lynch, "Tony” Vogt and Joe 
Christoff were the only players who 
participated in every inning of every 
game played by the Skibos. None of 
those three were out of a contest for 
a siiiol- minute.
Max Bastian was the leading hit­
ter on the squad, clouting the stitched 
apple for a mark of .500 in the seven 
games in which he participated. The 
only other hitter in the four hundred 
class was Christoff, with a mark of 
.436 for ten games. Lynch was next 
with .395; Wally showed big improve­
ment in the last few games, and in­
creased his average considerably. The 
other .300 hitters were: McClelland
.368; Newman .364, and Vogt .300. 
The team average was .292.
The Tartans scored 55 runs while 
their opponents were amassingfi a to­
tal of 80 markers. Christoff scored 
the most runs. 12.
Conrad was the only winning pitch­
er of the Tartans, getting credit for 
four victories and three losses. Bas­
sett was the losing pitcher in two 
contests and Leberknight in one.
Christoff easily leads in stolen 
. bases, having seven to his credit, 
for a mark of .700. Diffley and Bas­
tian each have two and Shriver and 
Lynch each one. Bastian leads in 
slugging with three triples. New­
man and Lynch each have one. The 
i* batting average follows:
Oakland Savings & 
Trust Co.
Member Federal Reservo 
System.
Capital.......................$300,000.00
Surplus - - -.............$300,000.00
Deposits, Over - - - $5,000,000.00
SAFE DEPOSIT BOXES 
FOR RENT
W. & J. DEFEATS PLAID 
AT TENNIS; SCORE 4-2
The Plaid racqueters were unable 
to take the strong W. & J. team in­
to camp last Friday, winning only 
one singles and two doubles match. 
McWilliams was the only Tech man 
to win in the singles matches, de­
feating Olmstead after losing the 
first set. Ivemery and ' Smith, after 
winning their first sets lost to Naser 
and Fredericks respectively. Bowran 
put up a stiff battle, making Bisell 
extend himself to win. In the dou­
bles matches the Tartans divided the 
honors, McWilliams and Smith tak­
ing their match in straight sets from 
Bisell and Naser. Kemery and 
Coover did not fare as fell, losing to 
Fredricks and Olmstead after winning 
their first set. The final score 
stood 4 to 2.
W. & J.JCamegie summary: 
SINGLES—
Naser, W. & J., defeated Kemery, 
Carnegie, 3-6, 6-4, 6-4.
Fredericks, W. & J., defeated
Smith, Carnegie, 6-S, 6-1, 6-2.
McWilliams, Carnegie, defeated 
Olmstead. W. & J., 2}-6, 6-4, 6-4.
Bisel, W. & J., defeated Bowran, 
Carnegie, 11-9, 8-6.
DOUBLES—
Fredericks and Olmstead, W. J., 
defeated Kemery and Coover, Car­
negie, 6-8, 6-1, 6-1.
Smith and McWilliams, Carnegie, 
defeated1 Bisell and Naser, W. & J., 
6-2, 9-7.
SEVEN GIRLS EARN 
MUCH PRIZED “C”
Letters Awarded Only Girls 
Earning 100 Athletic 
Points Here
"What do you think of The Plastic 
Age?”
“I think it’s exactly like college 
life.” ^
“No wonder enrollments are in­
creasing.”—Virginia Reel.
GAB. RH.Pet.
Bastian ........... 828414.500
Christoff ...........10391217.43C
Lynch ...............1043717.395
McClelland ...... 71947.36S
Neman ............. 62288.364
Vogt................. .1040512.300
Diffley ............ .1039311.282
Haible ............... 1•101.250
'Conrad ........... s2776.222
Maurer ........... 93264.125
Bahr ................. 82112..095
Shriver ............. 71511.067
Bryant ............ 4500.000
Bassett ........... 4500.006
^tyan ................... 3300.000
Leberknight .... 1000.000
Totals ........_34258100.292
Because the score was not kept, up 
completely for ali of the games 
played, fielding averages could not 
be coinpueted, nor sacrifice hits, etc. 
The games won and lost follows:
Carnegie.......... 4—Georgetown ...’5
Carnegie.......... 1—St. Johns............14
Carnegie.......... 7—Navy ...................13
Carnegie.......... 8—Juniata ......... 6
Carnegie.......... 7—Bethany ........... 5
Carnegie......... 5—Penn State....... 3
Carnegie.......... 6—Penn State........ 8
Carnegie.......... 1—Grove City...........8
Carnegie.__.14—Bucknell .............. 8
Carnegie...... 2—Bethany ........ 12
Announcement !
The Acacia Fraternity House at 630 Clyde Street will be operated 
this summer under private management.
A pleasant place to stay while attending summer school, 
sonable rates.
Rea-
Make your reservations now. 
Call Hiland 9380 or see I.J. Reaves or W. A. Glanz.
The Magnolia Ptlroltum 
Building, Dal/as, Texas 
ALFRED C. BOSSOM, 
Architccc 
Drawn by 
Hush Fcrriss
© O. E. CO.
"Sheer Height”
'THE American business building represents a distinct and national x architectural style when its design frankly emphasizes its sheer height and outwardly expresses the inner ficts of its construction.
The tall buildings which stand as monuments throughout the coun­try to the vision of our architects and the skill of our engineers have, in the gigantic profiles which they rear against the sky, the true Amer­ican spitit of aspiration and progress toward even greater achieve­
ments.
Certainly modern invention—modern engineering skill and organiza­tion, will prove more than equal to the demands of the architecture of the future.
OTIS ELEVATOR COMPANY
OSces in all Principal Gties of the World
At a recent assembly in Margaret 
Morrison, the Women’s Athletic As­
sociation made its awards for this 
year. There were seven girls who 
received “C” sweaters, the highest 
award which is made. Sweaters are 
given only to those who have accum­
ulated one hundred athletic points.
The following are those who re­
ceived sweaters: “Jerry” Corbett, a
Junior in Margaret Morrison, and the 
second girl to receive a sweater in 
her Junior year; Maude Cook, a 
Margaret Morrison, Senior, who has 
been very active in athletics; Helen 
Daugherty, also a Senior in Mar­
garet Morrison, and one of the main­
stays of her class team; Rose Morin, 
a Margaret Morrison Senior, and 
president of the Women’s Athletic 
Association; Dot Sclinallhorst, a 
Fine Arts Stenior, and one of the 
first Arts girls to receive a “C” 
sweater; Mary Stuempfle, a Senior 
in Margaret Morrison, who has- helped 
her class on every team, and “Peg” 
Taylor, another Fine Arts Senior, and 
also one of the first to earn one hun­
dred1 points.
The Athletic Board presented Mar­
garet Markey with a fountain pen as 
a token of their appreciation of her 
services this year. Peg won her 
sweater last year, the first Junior 
who ever wore a sweater and kept 
right on with her work this year in 
spite of the fact that no further 
award could be gained. She has to­
talled one hundred and some thirty 
odd points, which is unprecedented 
in girls’ athletics here.
To those girls who have earned 
seventy-five points engraved pins 
were given. They Were:
Dorothy Cook, a Margaret Morrison 
Junior; Charlotte Durie, also a Mar­
garet Morrison Junior, and Mary 
Speers, a Senior in Margaret Morri­
son.
Those who were hwarded pins for 
fifty points are: Margaret McFall,
an M. M. Senuior; Lois Snyder, an 
M. M. Senior, and Rebecca Speei’s, an 
M. M. Junior.
On the Plaid Screen
By J. A. C. FOLLER
I MISS BRAINARD RESIGNS
TO BECOME JUNE BRIDE
The new staff, announced last week, takes charge of the Tartan with this 
issue. The athletic department wishes to announce that there will be only a 
slight change in policy. The strictly impersonal treatment of all school ath­
letics and athletes wilt be adhered to quite as earnestly and religiously asl 
our predecessor has done. The only deviation from the past policy will be 
the effort to include just a bit of what is going on in the college athletic 
world. The discussion will consist mainly of material which does not ap-* 
pear in local newspapers, and which is gained through correspondence with 
other college athletic departments. Such a feature, if managed properly, 
should prove valuable addition to the editorial column.
BASEBALL
The past baseball season, while it was not an overwhelming success, 
was all that could be expected considering the fact that there was no team 
last year, neither freshman nor varsity, to furnish well developed material. 
The pitching staff was a bit weak; the absence of Jack Cappe, former mound 
star for the Plaid, was noticeably felt. The only dependable liurler on the 
squad was Conrad, who was aided towards the latter part of the season by 
Lynch. The Tartans were handicapped in their early season games by lack 
of practice, and lost several contests which they should have won.
The outlook for next year is bright, for only two veterans will be lost to 
the team. They are Obie Newman, intielder, and Chet liable, catcher. Sev­
eral good men are coming up from the plebe ranks, among them being Good- 
lin, Johnson, Hurd, Judd, Cottle, Bromley and Cowan. While the plebe team 
was not exceptionally fast this year, the above-mentioned men showed ex­
cellent ability.
THE TENNIS SEASON
Tennis fared worse than any of the other spring sports; three matches 
were won, one tied, and seven lost. This is one of the poorest showings 
that the Plaid tennis outfit has made in recent years. The loss of George 
Beecher, captain of the team, was keenly felt. Beecher was the first man on 
the squad and one of the best players the school lias produced. His forced 
retirement came about through the eligibility channels. Next season’s pros­
pects are not very bright, as several of the best men are graduating and 
their places can not be filled easily.
HERE AND THERE
“Buddy” Overend and Bob Waddell went to New York last week to a 
conference of football officials. The purpose of the conference was to select 
the various referees, umpires, and head linesmen for the big games of the 
coming fall season. Few people understand just how, where and why the 
men that they see taking charge of a big game are selected. They are 
chosen from men prominent in athletics and for their personal qualities.
It has been announced that the official slogan for the football men this 
summer is “Skip rope to beat W. & J.” Now is the time to start thinking 
about it!
Football camp and preliminary training will be held in the bowl, the 
same arrangement as was in force last year.
The Athletic Council will meet this evening for the purpose of awarding 
letters and numerals to the varsity and freshmen teams. Track, baseball 
and tennis men will be brought up at this time. The announcements will 
appear in the Pittsburgh papers.
TENNIS SEASON ONE 
OF'POOREST IN YEARS
The tennis team this year fared 
worse than any not team of the Tar­
tans for the past several years. Only 
three matches were won, while one 
was tied and seven lost.
The team started the season in a 
blaze of glory, taking Penn State 
over in the opener and following 
that up with victorios over West Vir­
ginia Wesleyan and Bethany. Since 
then, however, Captain Beecher be­
came ineligible and the team, seemed 
demoralized. Acting Captain Smith 
was the only man on the team who 
was able to hold his own against 
the good teams.
The summary of the season fol­
lows :
Carnegie......... 5—Penn State........2
Carnegie.......... 6—W. V. Wesleyan. 0
Carnegie.......... 6—Bethany ............ 0
Carnegie.......... 2—Pitt .................... 4
Carnegie.......... 2—Alumni .............. 4
Carnegie.......... 2—Bucknell ........... 4
Carnegie.......... 2—Syracuse ........... 5
Carnegie.......... 3—Union ................ 3
Carnegie.......... 1—New York U... 5
Carnegie.......... 1—Pitt ...................o
iCarnegie..:... 3—W. & J.............. 4
Whipping Ended Romance.
This little episode in my life oc­
curred when I was but six years of 
age. A neighbor’s boy, Jack, and I 
loved each other. All was settled be­
tween us that we should get married 
and start housekeeping in our coal 
house, which was not used during the 
summer. We had to furnish our 
house first. All went on well until 
our parents began missing tilings— 
dishes, etc. A whipping apiece and 
our romance ended.—Chicago Journal.
ABANDONED BY ARMY
¦Bp... 5
The army has decided that it will 
no longer hold jurisdiction over tin 
statue of Liberty on Bedloe’s island 
New York harbor. Before giving up 
control, Sergt. C. W. Shults, for years 
army electrician and engineer for the 
statue, gave the huge torch a final 
polishing, as shown In the photograph 
above.
What Texas Mulea Like.
Another thing that ladles who go to 
the farms must understand: Cussing 
the mules is not a matter of brutal 
anger, for these gentle animals are 
altogether lovable. It is merely be­
cause It Is the music that mules love 
better than all others save the rustling 
of oats and the rattling of the corn In 
the trough.—Houston Post.
Max Bastian and Joe Christoff are the only three-letter men in school. 
Both these men made all three of their letters this year and also mado them 
in the same sports: football, track and baseball. BaqMn’a consistanl. win­
ning of the broad jump and javelin events wore one of the outstanding feat­
ures of the track season.
It is very doubtful that a pentathlon will bo hold this year on account 
of examinations.
Maurer’s batting average appears a little low, and is largely attrllmtod to 
hard luck, many of his hits have boon sacrifices.
Men From Plebe Baseball 
Ranks to Bolster Varsity
The Plebe baseball season, while 
not a success in point of games won 
and lost, was of material benefit in 
that several good men will be avail­
able for tha varsity next year. Only 
two of the seven games were won, 
including the no hit, no run game 
against Shadysido in the opening 
contest of the season, pitched by 
“Benny’' Comfort.
The men who have sliown real 
ability and who should be heard 
from next year are Comfort and 
Johnson, „pitchers; Goodlin, catcher; 
Hurd, Cottle, Judd1 and Bromley, in 
holders, Newt Cowan, outfielder. 
These men recolved some valuable 
^experience under tha tutelage of 
Coach Jimmy Robertson and should 
strengthen the varsity materially. 
xComfort especially should bolster up 
the pitching department, for he has 
the size and1 ability to develop into 
a real pitching sensation.
The games played resulted as fol­
lows:
Plebes..........11—Shadyside .............. 0
Plebes..........11—Sclienley Hi..........18
Plebes...... 6—Bellefonte Acad... 11
Plebes------.10—Indiana Normal... 4
Plebes.......... 3—Bellefonte Acad... £
Plebes.......... 3—Kiski .......................2C
Plebes......... 7—Shadyside Acad... 8
CRAFTON HI RACQUETERS 
AND PLEBES TIE AT 3-3
The Grafton tennis team, Friday on 
the Tartan courts, was unable to re- 
venge a previous defeat handed them 
by the Plobo toam in tliolr first match 
the final scoro boing 3-3.
Grafton started out by taking the 
first, match, Caldwell defeating Baer 
in a hard fought oncountor. The 
Plebes had eilty sailing In the next 
two mntchoa, Holbrook defeating Me- 
CUntoclc, and Sturm, dofoatlng CIlaM- 
ser. The last singles match was talc- 
on over by Grafton, Hurdle winning 
from Scott.
Honors in the doubles matches 
woro dlvldod, the Plobos losing ono 
and winning one. Glasor and Hard to 
won from Sturm and Nosum In 
straight sots, and Hopper and Scott 
defeated McCllntock and Johnson al­
ter losing the first sot.
Crafton-Froshmon summary:
»Singles—Caldwell, Grafton, defeat­
ed Baer, Freshmen, 1-6, 8-6, 6-4; Hol­
brook, Freshmen, defeated McClln­
tock, Crafton, 6-2, 6-1; Sturm, Frosh- 
men, dofeated Glasser, Crafton, 6-4, 
7-5; Hardie, Crafton. defeated S’cott, 
Freshmen, 1-6, 6-2, 8-6.
Doubles—Glassor and Hardie, Craf­
ton, defeated Sturm and Nosum, 
Freshmen, 6-3, 6-2; Hopper and Scott, 
Freshmen, defeated McCIintock and 
Johnson, Crafton, 1-6, 6-2, 6-0.
Dormitories For Women
Forbes Hail............
Forbes Hall Annex
Mellon Hall............
Mellon Hall Annex.
Dormitory................
Dormitory................
Dormitory......................
Dormitory......................
Dormitory......................
Dormitory......................
Dormitory..........
Dormitory..........
Dormitory..........
Dormitory..........
Dormitory..........
Practice House.
.4016 Forbes Street......................Sclienley 9079
.4916 Forbes Street....................Schenley 9340
.5052 Forbes Street......................Schenley 9063
.5052 Forbes Street.....................Schenley 9147
.5064 Forbes Street.....................Schenley 9220
.5072 Forbes Street.....................Schenley 9199
......5080 Forbes Street.....................Schenley 9473
......5090 Forbes Street.....................Schenley 9107
......5150 Forbes Street..................Schenley 9162
......5137 Woodlawn Avenue............Schenley 9430
...5137 Woodlawn Avenue..........Schenley 9434
...5141 Woodlawn Avenue... .Sclienley 0341-It
...5143 Woodlawn Avenue............Schenley 9433
...5147 Woodlawn Avenue............Schenley 9114
...5151 Woodlawn Avenue............Schenley 9438
..5125 Woodlawn Avenue.......Schenley 2513-J
uco f,S te2c5TH2,
FIRST FLOOR
Miss Ida H. Spurrier, Instr. of Physical Education....................Room 101
Miss Loulae R. Russell, Instr. of Physical Education...............Room 101
Mias K. M. Bralnard, Secretary to Grad. Mgr...........................Room 102
Clarence Overend, Graduate Manager...........................................Room 102
H. C. Irwin, Assistant Graduate Manager...................................Room 102
SECOND FLOOR
Dr. Esther L. Blair, Physician for Women...................................Room 200
Dr. William L. Marks, Resident Phyaician..................................Room 203
Edmund Esquerre, Head Dept. Student Health........................Room 202
F. W. Moaes, Instr., Physical Education.......................................Room 204
Arnold F. Fink, Instr., Physical Education..................................Room 204
Christian Beuheman, Instr. Physical Education........................Room 204
Tartan athletes view with regret 
the departure of Miss Klea M. Brain- 
ard, secretary to Graduate Manager 
of Athletics Clarence Overend. Milas 
Bralnard resigned her position last 
weok to become a. June bride. She 
will bo married to Mr. Edward Stov­
er of Chicago, this month. Mr. 
Stover formerly resided, in Pitts­
burgh, teaching night school at Car­
negie as a side line.
Miss Bralnard 1ms become endeared 
to the athletes of Carnegie for the 
past few years, having been in the 
athletic department since the time 
of Frank Haaren. She was always 
willing to aid the boys in any way, 
and her absence will be felt.
PANTHERS DEFEAT 
SKIB0 NETMEN, 5-1
PLEBE TENNIS TEAM
LOSES TO Pin, 5-1
The fireshman tennis team was 
treated in the same manner as the 
varsity last Wednesday afternoon on 
the Skibo courts, losing to the Pan­
ther yearlings by the same score, 5-1- 
Each of the freshman visitors do­
feated his Plaid opponent by straight 
sets, Sturm was the only man on the 
Tartan squad who was ablo to got 
three gamos to Ills credit.
In the oponor, Baur, who takes 
turns with the two O’Laughlins in 
playing first man on the Cubs’ team, 
defeated Bair in an easy set, 6-0, 6-1. 
Divvy O’Loughlln beat Hooper with 
the same score, while Johnny 
O’Loughlin eliminated Sturm, 6-3, 6-2. 
Bournes defeated Scott by two sots 
of 6-2, each.
In the doubles •Sturm and Blair took 
Carnogie’s only victory of the match 
by whipping Lawler and Jones, 6-1, 
7-5. Bournes and Hockonsmlth 
wound up by dusting off Scott and 
Hooper, 6-2, 7-5. '
A condonsod summary Is as fol­
lows:
Baur dofeated Bair, 6-0, 6-1. D. 
O'Loughlin won from Hoopor, 6-0, 6-1. 
J. O'Loughlin defeated S'turm, 6-8, 
6-2, and Bournes eliminated Scott, 6*2, 
6-2. Sturm and Bair defeated Lawler 
and Jones 6-1, 7-5. Bournes and Hock- 
onsmith won from Scott and Hooper, 
6-2, 7-5. , •
Minister Without Portfolio.
The phrase “minister without port­
folio” means a membor of a ministry 
or cabinet to whom no special depart­
ment Is assigned. Tho phrase Is used 
only In England, and wo have no cor­
responding phrase In this country, 
notes an International authority. 
Prior t(| December, 1010, the British 
cabinet: consisted of the political chiefs 
or heads of tho principal government 
departments, and exceeded 20 in mini- 
bor.
ADVERTISE AND GET RE8ULT®
Many people are wine on radio mat­
toni, yet do not know why tholr foun­
tain pon 'Monks,” or that they oan 
purohane ono that will give entire 
nntlnfactlon nt tho Jonklnu Arcade— 
Slngor Pon and Gift 8hop.
mmmmmmmmmmimmmmtmn 
C. M. STATJFT
3001 FORBES 8TREET 
Artlntn’ nnd Englnoero’ Mate- 
rlnln, Stationery and General 
Supplloo for Students.
mmmmmummtmmmmmmmtmm
Harry Smith the Only Tartan 
Able to Win From the 
Adept Pittites
The Paid Racqueteers were defeated 
last Wednesday by the not squad of 
tho University of Pittsburgh by the 
score of 5-1. Tho match was played 
on tho Carnegie courts and was tho 
final tournament of the season for 
tho Panthers. In the varsity match 
Dick Cable was the only member of 
the visiting team who seemed to 
have much trouble with his opponent. 
Henry Smith took his measure in 
three long sets, Cable playing second 
man, instead of lead-off, as Is his 
usual position. Each of the other 
singles matches was won in straight 
sets. Ferguson, when teamed with 
Cable in the doubles, wore forced to 
extend themselves; the match run­
ning into the third set.
In the first game of the day, Lin­
ton defeated Kemery, 6-2, 6-3. Cable 
fell to defeat next, and Silverman put 
Pitt back into the lead, with a 6-3, 6-2 
victory over Bowran. Ferguson, 
fourth man for Pitt, won out 6-1, 6-2, 
over McWilliams with little difficulty.
Silverman and Linton spilled Mc­
Williams and Kemery, 6-3, 6-0, in the 
first doubles match, playing a first 
class brand of tennis. Cable and 
Ferguson defeated Smith and Bowrou 
2-6, 6-4, 8-6, in tho second doubles 
match of the tournament'.
The complete summary is as fol­
lows :
Smith dofeated Cablo, 3-6 8-6.
Linton defeated Koinory, 6-2, 6-3.
Silverman won from Bowron, 6-3, 
6-2.
Ferguson beat McWilliams, 6-4, 6-2. 
In tho doubles matches, McWilliams 
and Kemery lost to Silverman and 
Linton, (1-3, 6-0; and Cable and Fer­
guson defeated •S’mifch and Bowron.
PATRONIZE OUR ADVERTISERS
MT T’ I*
CANDIE8 
ICE CREAM 
LUNCHEON 
DINNER 
fl TO 8 P. M.
Our New 
Oakland Store
Corner Forbes and 
Atwood Street
la oorvlng n moot dolloloua 
Lunoh, aloo Evonlnu Dinner.
We Invito tho ntudontu to 
moot tholr frlendu In tho Roy- 
mor Storo.
JPrtJjOOO'OOFir st UnaCaaChu 
uj uvjjOQ uoinru 
í3/»q 3u¡jhsuj mof\| 'ssau
coUfl£( so U,Stoe íCjX/S 2o5TH
-Jim* ri3lJ 3,/) jojiuuotiatf vt¡¡ mi/ nwnjnM »ís||05»iij»jDiqo uj puptutuo» pu V ujiu atojjoa äu/iwu; u; pjjrwajuj qjt/piajjiw/ s¡ jpiwunj.j ut /of
•uoíboq jo Auud 
-UI03 3DUBin9u¡ ¿jn junjnjA( 
3JDODUBJ-J uqo{ oqj Aq poanp 
-ojdoj uooq büij ‘aDuopuodapuj JO UOptUBpOQ jo »[JUJJSDEJ 
U SU {JOM 6B ‘UOJBBJIULUOD SJip JOÁdoD 3jqdBj3o}oqd y •essjauoQ jo Ajcjqrj oqa uj uaoa aq uoa 
uojssiuiuioD uoaSuiqBB^ oqj 
jo ÁdoD pasBOiSuo jbuiSjjo 3q_L 
MUB3Jodui¡ ísoui oqj 
si ‘jboA 3X3U oqj umj Aq pouíhfl 
‘aDuapuodopui jo uoimuEpoQ 
oqj 03 qxnu púa ^dooubj-i uqof 
Aq pou3jg .lubiunoop Duojsiq
3SJIJ oqj 8BM U0ISB1U1U103 SUJJ,
C.MSTSAJS TJ quopjcaaT uaqj MMF oq/<\ ‘>po:)uu|-i uqo[ Aq p3u3qu MT 
PUB‘S¿¿I ‘61 3unfp33üpfl|*B|qd-ppB||qj JB bboj3uo3 JBJU3U1J 
-UOQ aqj JO OJOA Aq „sdjuoioq parjjuft oqj jo Auuy oqj 
i° jPiqD-Ul-JSpUBUlUlOQ pul! [BJ3U3Q,, UOjäujqBByJjJ^ O3JO:>0
apoui qDjqM oAJpjMpATAcJa oq_L
•SZ6I ‘e ¿inf “o pojBjqojoo ApjBudojddc aq ]|¡m 
auOAaujqj, *33NIINO RIWKIJIUIIN 
4vopBqB3qju¡q3¡M4'BBBiA[‘o3píJq-UXBQ 3B B3DJOJ JBJUOJOD 3qj 
JO pUBUIlUOa 3{003 U033uu¡BBy^
o3jo30 -UOQ ‘SL¿1 ÄIni uO
UOISSIUIÏOO* 8IJJ pus UOjSUïlJSB^YV
ÄHOXS1H dLO SXOVil ONIXS3H3JLN1
Aufhammer & Evans
Hats and Men’s Furnishings
6100 PENN AVENUE 
At Sheridan Squa e East Liberty
UNIVERSITY INN /<\p‘> :)\< /):|)<
Is now open for faculty and students.
OUR SERVICE WILL PLEASE YOU 
Please Give Us a Trial
STUDY at HOME for EXTRA CREDITS
More than 450 courses in History, English, Mathematics, Chemistry, 
Zoology, Modern Languages, Economics, Philosophy, Sociology, etc., 
are given by corrcttpondcncc. Learn how the credit they yield may 
be applied on your college program. Catalog describing courses fully 
will be furnished on request. Write today.
QZfje UniberSitp oi Cfjicago
05 ELLIS HALL CHICAGO, ILLINOIS

---------------------------------------------------

PAGE FOURTHE CARNEGIE TARTANTUESDAY. JUNE 2, 1925
&riEAus Frfa
POSITIONS OPEN IN PETROLEUM FIELDS
Tlio Tulsa Carncglo Clan Invito» 
the attention of Carnegie graduates to 
tho opportunity» for Interesting and 
profitable employment In the territory 
of which Tlils'a lia» now become tlio 
center.
The petroleum Industry and Indus- 
trie» closely allied offer tho largest 
source of employment, There 1» hard­
ly another* Industry Jn which promo­
tion I» EN rapid and remuneration «o 
high for the executive po»ltlon», a» In 
the oil IndUHtry. Tho problems In­
volved In I lie production, refining and 
marketing of petroleum are EN numer­
ous and so varied that tho man of In­
itiative and energy has almost unlim­
ited opportunities for domonstrtttlng 
his ability.
Geologl»ts estimate that Oklahoma 
contain» more than W per cent of the 
oil reserves of tho nation. There are 
. many oil men who believe that Okla­
homa ban tho greatest petroleum po­
tentiality of any American state. 
Oklahoma ha» al»o rich doponlts of 
coal, stono and raw materials for the 
cement, brlclc and glaHB IndUHtry and 
load» the nation in the production of 
lead and zinc. Agriculturally, It ranks 
among Lhe leading «tatos of this coun­
try.
Tulsa, whlcli in little more than a 
decade haH grown from an obscure 
Indian trading post to a modern city 
of more than 110,000 population and is 
still growing rapidly, Ih now the bub 
of tlie American oil world. It SE a city 
of tlio first class In every roHpect ex­
cept numbers.
Herewith SE a brief summary of pos- 
slble poHitlon open to technically 
trained graduates:
Architecture — Architectural drafts­
men, designers—particularly of resi­
dences.
Building Construction—Estimators, 
steam fitters, draftHmon, salesmen, 
building supplies, electricians, re­
pairmen, manonfi.
Chemical-—Research chemists In 
Bureau of Mine», refineries and nat­
ural gaHollne plants, checking the pro­
duct of refineries and gasoline plants.
Civil Engineering—Surveying, geo­
logical, pipe line construction, state 
highway construction, municipal engi­
neering, draftsmen.
Commercial Engineering—Introduc­
ing now or Improved product» to en­
gineers In oil Industry, soiling oil 
country supplies and equipment for
oil .companies,; accounting, plant yiold. 
and cost, appraisals, Insurance and 
claims—porsona,], Urn, accident, sta­
tistics, safely work.
Electrical Englnoerlng — Electric 
power is being used more and moro to 
drive drilling and pumping equipment 
in the oil field.
("¡oologies! Work —¦ Particularly oil 
geology.
Insulation (bent mid cold)—Refin­
eries (storage tanks), gaflOiIno plants 
(tank cars).
Leasing Scouts¦•Watching oil do 
volopmont on competitive leases as 
preliminary training,
Machinery Production...Machinist»,
machine erectors, draftsmen, plant 
engineers, snlosinon.
Mbohanlcal Engineering • l)e»lgn 
and construction <>r refineries, natural 
gasoline plants, oil pumping stations, 
power plants, oil drilling equipment», 
lubricating engineers.
Metallurgical- -Research work with 
Bureau of Mine» and with prlvat 
concerns on steel and alloys used In 
drilling and refining work.
Mining ISuglneering -Coftl, zinc and 
lead mines,’ mining oil shales, which 
will he a real Industry In the near 
future.
Craig Restaurant
Tho placo wlioro all tlio follows 
EAT
412 CRAIG STREET
TJ’VERY collej man want» His 
•*-' money's worth—that is why 
John Ward’s collej sales gro 
year by year.
Value I --Tremcndus! Stvlc I — 
Up-to-the-minute! Quality ?—¦ 
the best of everything goes into 
John Ward footwear.
On Display By 
MR. D. T. KIRKPATRICK 
AT SKI BO INN 
TOMORROW, JUNE 2
(,^yol\ivV4jQ
iv\.ei\’s-bKoesINCORPORATED <-UT9NANG U-s. $K$G orr.
Stores in Neu-York, Brooklyn, Newark and Philadelphia ^5? Address for Mail Orders, igi Hudson ¡it, New York City
Printing — Advertising department 
of oil companies, Hale» work, jobbing 
department» of newspapers, work in 
numcrouH shops printing numerous 
forms mied by oil companies.
Pure Science — Mathematicians In 
roMcarch department» of oil compa­
nies, chemical and physical testing, 
teaching In high schools and college».
Secretarial Work — There I» a de­
mand for secretaries capable of be­
coming exocutlvo». There are many 
women holding reHporiHlble executive 
positions In tho oil IndUHtry.
Transportation (railroad and motor 
truck)—Material transportation 1» a 
big problem with tho large oil produc­
ing companies and refineries.
Applications for I3NES.SN33E should be 
placed with the Carnegie Student 
Placement Bureau at Pittsburgh. 
Larger Oil Companlca of Mld-Contln- 
cnt Field In Tulsa.
Amerada Petroleum Corp., Petroleum 
Building.
Barn»dall Oil Corp., Petroleum Bldg.
Bell Oil and 0CE MNGD Kennedy Bldg.
Carter Oil Co., Exchange National 
Bank Building.
Gardner Petroleum Co., 121 E. Sixth 
Street.
Gilliland Oil Co., Flrnt National 
Bank Building.
Gladys Bell Oil Co., Atlas Life Bldg.
Gypsy Oil Co., Clinton Building.
Marland Companies, National Bank 
of Commerce Building.
McMann Oil & Gas Co., Drew Bldg.
Mid-Continent Petroleum Corp., Cos- 
don Building.
Mid-KaiiHaH Oil & Gas Co., Petro­
leum Building.
Mid-WeHt and Gulf Co., Mayo Bldg.
Mutual Oil Co., Kennedy Bldg.
New England Oil & Pipe Line Co., 
Exchange National Bank Building.
Noble Oil & 0CE Co., Wright Bldg.
Oklahoma EaHtern Oil Co., 117 W. 
Fourth Street.
Oklahoma Prod. & Ref. Corp. of 
Am., 118 W. Sixth Street.
Peters Petroleum Corp., Exchange 
National Bank Building.
Waite PhllllpB Co., Petroleum Bldg.
Pierce Petroleum Corp., Petroleum 
Building.
Prairie Oil & Gas Co., Exchange Na.
11 on al Bank Building,
Producer» & Iloflnors Corp., Ex­
change National Bank Building.
Pure Oil Co., 118 W. Sixth Stroet.
Reiter-FostÖr Oil Corp., Atlas Lifo 
Building.
Sapulpa Refining Co., Kennedy Bldg.
Savoy Oil Co., Mid-Continent Bldg,
Shaffer Oil & Refining Co., Kennedy 
Building.
Sinclair Oil & Gas Co., Sinclair Bldg.
Sinclair Pipe Line Co., Sinclair.Bidg.
Skolly Oil Co., Unity Building.
T. B. Slick Oil Co., First National 
Bank Building.
Standard Oil of Indiana, Mld-Centln- 
ont Building.
Sun Co., 524 S. Cheyenne.
Texas Company, Palace Building.
Roxana Petroleum Corp., Mayo Bldg.
Tidal Oil Co., 002 S. Cheyenne,
Tidal Refining Oo„ (102 S. Chyonno.
Transcontinental Oil Co., New 
Wright Building,
Twin-State Oil Co„ 52-1 S, Cheyenne,
II. S. Cities Corpi, Mid-Continent 
Building,
Wilcox Oil & Gas Co., ¡110 W. Sixth 
Street.
Wrlghtsman Oil Go,, Exchango Na­
tional Bank Building.
Chestnut «fe Smith Corp.
[Umpire llefinorlOH,/Commercial Bldg.
Imperial oil Market (Jo., Atlas Life 
Building.
Phillips Petroleum Co., Kennedy 
Building.
53 GRADS REGISTER 
IN REUNION CLASSES
After receiving the final returns of 
Campus Week as determined by tlio 
Alumni Office, it wa« found that 
53 alumni from the reunion classes 
and 520 from other classes bad regis­
tered.
However, many alumni, in the ex­
citement of being on the old campus 
again forgot to register. With the 
number registered and an estimate of 
those not registered, over GOO were 
back for the annua’ event These 
figures show for themselves the inter­
est taken by alumni in their Alma 
Mater. Next year, It is hoped that 
the clas?es in reunion will turn out 
in much greater numbers; This is 
expected since tbos<2 classes will be 
much larger.
CLAN NEWS
TO ALL CLANSI
At about this timo of the year, new 
officers are bolng elected and chang­
es aro taking placo In clan organiza­
tions. The Alumni Office requests 
that nil clans notify them in regard 
to changes In officers or In address 
of any of tho momhers. If this is 
taken caro of Immediately, it. will 
facilitate tho conducting of tho busi­
ness of the office, and will be sin­
cerely appreciated.
Tartan 
Ads Bring 
Results
For rates call or write tho 
Advertising Manager
L.S. Lashmit Awarded 
Scholarship Abroad
Beaux Arts Awards Coveted 
Prize to Carnegie Grad.
Luther S. Lashmit, Instructor In de­
sign In the Department of Architec­
ture at Carnegie Institute of Tech­
nology, and a graduate of the depart­
ment, ha» been awarded a five hun­
dred dollar Hcbolar»hlp for a Hummer’» 
Htudy at the Fontainebleau School, in 
France, according to an announce­
ment from the Beaux ArtB Institute 
of Design in New York City. A simi­
lar scholarship was awarded to .7. H. 
Haftory, of the Ma»»acliUHetts Insti­
tute of Technology.
This 1» the flrnt year that the Beaux 
Arts Institute bus offered these 
scholarships, architectural »tudent» 
and architects throughout the coun­
try competing for the prizes. Tho 
awards entitle tho holders to three 
months' »tudy this summer at the 
Fontainebleau School of Fine Arts-
Lashmit was graduated from Car­
negie with an A. B. degree in 1932, 
and received hi» master’s degree the 
following year. For a year he taught 
architecture at the George Institute 
of Technology returning this year to 
carnegle as instructor in design. He 
expects to sail on June 20 on the 
steamer France.
SEVEN MEN SHARE IN 
BUILDERS’ SCHOLARSHIP
Seven Htudents, including John E. 
Smith, of 519 Mifflin avenue, Wilkins- 
burg, Hhured in the awards of $300 
worth of scholarHlilps presented by 
the PIttHburgh Builders Exchange at 
a meeting of the Building Construc­
tion Htudents of Carnegie on May 26. 
Smith, who SE a Henlor In the Depart­
ment of Building Construction, was 
awarded a scholarship of $56.25, and 
three other members of bis class re­
ceived like amounts. Three junior 
student» in the department were 
awarded $25.00 each.
The scholarship fund waB estab­
lished several years ago by the Build­
ers’ Exchange for distribution annu­
ally among students of the Depart­
ment of Building Construction who 
make the best scholastic records in 
their work, during the current year. 
Tile presentations wore made May 26, 
in the presence of members of the 
exchange, the faculty, and the stu­
dents of the department, by J. Charles 
Wilson, president of Lhe A. and S. 
Wilson Company.
In addition to Smith, awards of 
$56.25 were made to Nathan Leebov, 
of iS'prlngfield, Mass.; J. C. Good, of 
I-Toneybrook; Pa-, and Harold A. Wel- 
d el I, of Munhall, Pa. Dwight V. 
Beede and George J. Murphy of 
Youngstown, Ohio, and Reginald 
Rowley, of Wheeling, W. Va., ¡junior 
students, were awarded $25.00 each.
Ciru tsRaCU"R“
BALTIMORE—President, Arthur W. Crownover, Maryland Glass 
Corporation, Bromo Seltzer Tower Building; Vice President, 
Ö. S. Deal, Wentworth Apartments, Cathedral and Mulberry 
Streets; Secretary and Treasurer, P. H. Dickey, 1318 Continen­
tal Building.
BOSTON—Secretary, John F. Maxwell, 220 Billings Road, Wollas­
ton, Mass.
BUFFALO—President, R. G. Townsend, 22 Bidwell Parkway; Vice 
President, B. A. Lutton, 288 Saranac Avenue; Secretary and 
Treasurer, Robert Porter, 167 Porter Avenue.
CHICAGO—-President, J. B. Patterson, Ravinia, 111.; Vice President, 
Mrs. G. F. MaeCaughey, 515 Vine Street, Park Ridge, 111.; Sec­
retary and Treasurer, O. M. Lundy, 5475 ICimbark Avenue, 
Chicago, 111.
CINCINNATI—President, G. C. Smith, Chern. Dept., University of 
Cincinnati; Secretary and Treasurer, Mrs. L. V. Bohanon, 419 
Torrence Road.
CLEVELAND—-President, George A. Ebeling, Newman-Stern Build­
ing; Vice President, Mrs. M. II. Montgomery, 492 East 108th 
Street; Vice President, Albert May, 12563 Clifton Boulevard; 
Secretary and Treasurer, E. F. Lundeen, 12722 Barrington 
Avenue.
COLUMBUS, OHIO—President, N. J. Engle, 266 South High Street; 
Vice President, Florence H. Lutz, 1980 North High Street; 
Secretary and Treasurer, 1481 Michigan Avenue.
CONNECTICUT—President, R. W. Arnold, 353 Sigourney Street, 
Hartford, Conn.; Vice President, C. E. Rutherford, 41 Kenneth 
Street, Hartford, Conn.; Secretary and Treasurer, IC. W. Fin­
lay, 270 Blue Hills Avenue, Hartford, Conn.
DAYTON—President, Fred Flader, 2505 West Rivcrview Avenue, 
Dayton, Ohio; Vice President, F. ~W. Heckert, 1127 Grafton 
Avenue; Secretary and Treasurer, George L. Long, 301 Graf­
ton Avenue.
DETROIT—Prclifcient;, W. Ray Williams, care Wcstinghpuse Elcc. & 
Ml'g. Co., löflßsSixth Street; Secretary and Treasurer, J. H. 
Miles, Miles-Applcby Company, 4612 Woodward Avenue.
ERIE—Secretary and Treasurer, Echvin Gross, care llammermill 
Paper Company.
GOLDEN GATE, CALIF—President, John R. Gearhart, 353 Grand 
Avenue, Oakland, Calif.; Sccrctary and Treasurer, H. P. Fow­
ler, 1340 »Josephino Strcot, Berkeley, Calif.
11 AIMilttHU.IUI--- President, John G. Todd, 20% North Queen Street, 
Lancaster, Pa.; Vice President, Mrs. A. 0. Green '11!) Woodbine 
Street, \ larrisburg, Pa.; Secretary, Henry Y. Shaub, 20% North 
Queen Street, Lancaster, Pa.; Treasurer, Richie Lawrie, 116 
Locust Street, Harrisburg, Pa.
HUNTINGTON, W. Va.-Secretary, J. F. DeYoung, 808 Second 
Street, East.
JOHNSTOWN, PA.—Secretary, John W. Fritz, 215 John Street.
M.ONONGAIIELA VALLEY—President, Conrad A. Stone, Box 391, 
Charleroi, Pa.; Vice President, Alice G. Nixon, 58 Schoon- 
maker Avenue, Monessen, Pa.; Secretary and Treasurer, A. B. 
Lowstuttcr, Box 91, Charleroi, Pa.
NEW YORK—President, J. M. Guter, 15 Park Row, N. Y. C.; Vice 
President, J. A. Cameron, 136 Park Avenue, Tuckahoe, N. Y.; 
Secretary and Treasurer, S. A. Smith, 8 West Fortieth Street, 
N. Y. C.; Publicity Agent, Bernard H. Goldcnson, 505 Fifth 
Avenue, New York City.
NORFOLK—President, T. D. Fitzgibbon, 811 Holt Street ; Secretary, 
James W. Phillips, 611 Raleigh Avenue.
PHILADELPHIA—President, Paul W. Einmel, 5710 North Seventh 
Street; Vice President, L. E. Exline, 213 South 47-th Street; 
. Secretary, John S. Gicking, Cunard Building, 220 S. 16th St.
PITTSBURGH* PA.—President, M. R. Walton, 5838 Alderson Aye.
ST. LOUIS—President, Paul Klingensmitli, 10 Jefferson Road, Webs­
ter Groves, Mo.; Vice President, Oliver Wilkins, 111 Waverly 
Place, Webster Groves, Mo.; Secretary, Nelson P. Rice, 1064 
Arcade Building; Treasurer, M. A. Zeller, 2128 Railway Ex­
change Building.
SOUTHERN CALIFORNIA—Secretaiy, Bessie Finkelhor, 319 Delta 
Building, Los Angeles, Calif.
TULSA—President, H. G. Texter, care Standard Seamless Tube Com­
pany, 710 Mid-Continent Building; Vice President, Arthur 
Kerr, 1617 Quaker Street ; Secretaiy and Treasurer, Gertrude 
Hartman McEwau, 1704 South Utica Avenue.
WASHINGTON, D. C.—President, J. R. Arnold, 24 Second Street, 
N. E.; Vice President, Harriet Staples, 3611 S Street, N. W.; 
Secretaiy and Treasurer, A. M. Pringle, 627 Lexington Place, 
N. E.
YOUNGSTOWN—President, John E. Jackson, 21 Euclid Avenue, 
Strnthers, Ohio; Vico President, Harold B. Hildebrand, 327 
Codar Avenue, Sharon, Pa. ; Secretary and Treasurer, Ralph P. 
Woodward. 165 Carroll Street, Youngstown, Ohio.
FRATERNITY DIRECTORY
AcaoUv—080 Clyde Street .............................................................inland IKIS0
Alpha Tau Omega—25-1 Bellelleld Street.............................Sehenlev 0102
Beta Sigma liho—2136 Wlghtman Street...................................Hazel 9210
Beta Tliota PI—55-10 Forbes Stroet..............................................Ilazel 8320
Delta Chi Rho—1-10S Wlghtman Street.......................................Hazel 9194
Delta Mu—1655 Shady Avenue......................................................Hazel 93-15
Delta Phi Delta—350 North Craig Street.................................Hlland 7004
Delta Tail Delta—*1922 Forbes Street....................................Schenley 9231
Delta Upsilon—4S22 Baum Boulevard...................................Schenley 9196
lota Sigma Delta—5601 Wilkins Avenue...................................Hazel 9356
Kappa Epsilon—1732 Center Avenue.........................................Hiland 9299
Kappa Sigma—624 Clyde Street.................................................Hiland 9544
Kappa Sigma Rho—444 Amberson.............................................Hiland 9127
Pi Kappa Alpha—4S07 Baum Boulevard..............................Schenley 92S5
Sigma Alpha Epsilon—4915 Forbes Street...........................Schenley 9211
Sigma Epsilon Phi—4929 Forbes Street...:........................Schenley 9122
Sigma Nu—4921 Forbes Street.............................................Schenley 0659
Theta Xi—5017 Forbes Street..................................................Schenley 9143
Woodlawn Club—5S14 Forbes Street...........................................Hazel 9422
CHANGE IN FACULTY 
ANNOUNCED FOR ’26
Several Important Promotions 
Are Made; Prof. McIntosh 
Heads Mining Dept.
The promotion or rour members o£ 
the faculty to become either heads or 
acting heads of the departments for 
next year is announced by Presi­
dent Baker. Of outstanding 
importance in the list is the ap­
pointment of Fred F. McIntosh, As­
sociate Professor of Metallurgical En­
gineering to be Professor and Acting 
Head of the Department of Mining 
and Metallurgical Engineering. This 
appointment is to fill the vacancy 
caused by the death of Professor 
Fred Crabtree.
Professor McIntosh has been a 
member of the faculty at Carnegie 
since 1906. He is a graduate of Har­
vard where he received his B- S. de­
gree in-1903 and his degree as Metal­
lurgical Engineer in 1905.
Other important . promotions an­
nounced for the year 1925-1926 are: 
Dr. Max Schoen, Associate Professor 
of Education and Psychology to be 
Head of the Department of Educa­
tion and Psychology; Dr. Bartow Grif- 
fiss Associate Professor and Acting 
Head of the Department of Industrial 
Economics, to be Head of the Depart­
ment; W. Frank Hitchens, Associate 
Professor of Architecture to be Pro­
fessor and Acting Head of the De­
partment of Architecture. .
Among other faculty promotions 
for next year are the following: Sam­
uel E. Dibble, from Assistant Profes­
sor of Heating, Ventilation and Sani­
tation to Associate Professor of 
Building Construction; Roy B. Am­
brose, from Assistant Professor of 
Power Plant Operation to Associate 
Professor of Machinery Production; 
Glendinning Keeble, from Assistant 
'Professor of Music to Associate Pro- 
fesBor of Music and Secretary of the 
College of Fine Arts; Theodore Vic-h- 
man, from instructor in Drama to As­
sistant Professor; Dr. J. C. Morehead, 
from Assistant Professor of Graphics 
to Associate Professor of the Depart­
ment of Architecture; Glen U. Clee- 
ton, from Instructor of Psychology to 
Assistant Professor of Education and 
Psychology; Edwin G. Olds, from In­
structor of Mathematics to Assistant 
Professor; Dr. Harry Seitz, from In­
structor of Physical Chemistry to As­
sistant Professor of Chemiçal Engin­
eering; Miss Virginia M. Alexander, 
from Assistant Professor of Costume 
Economics to Associate Professor of 
Applied Art.; and Miss Mary D. Hei- 
lig, from Assistant to Instructor of 
Biology.
ARCHITECTS WIN MANY 
BEAUX. ARTS AWARDS
Architectural students at Carnegie, 
won a large portion of the awards 
made, by the Beaux Arts Instituto of 
Design in New York city in the two 
last; judgments of the year.
In the analytlques competition of 
tho Class -B judgment, B. B. Duty, a 
sophomoro, was awarded first mention 
place, the only one given at the judg­
ment., while L. S. Neefe, a sophomore, 
received a first mention.
In the Class 13 Plan, Carnegie re­
ceived more places and first men­
tions combined than any other archi­
tectural school represented. Awards 
to Carnegie students included a first 
mention placed to F. C. Boldry, a 
ctualifying student, and first mentions 
to E. I. Love, 4a junior, A. C. Wingold, 
a sopliomore, and E. B. Milligan, a 
night student. Columbia and Yale 
were the only other institutions to 
receive places in this judgment.
As a result of the jury decisions in 
the fifth and last Class A judgment, 
first medals were awarded to three 
Carnegie men, these being Luther S. 
Lashmit, a graduate and at present 
an instructor in the Department of 
Architecture; George N. Pauly, a for­
mer student, and Wayne F. Koppes, 
a senior student. M. D. Smith and 
J. S. Tilotson, both seniors, received 
second medals.
Why "Bootleg" Whisky.
“Bootleg” is a pure Americanism, 
that grew up among the stills of tlie 
mountain country. Bootleg liquor was 
liquor that was secretly carried - in 
the leg of the moonshiner’s boot, be­
cause no tjyc had been paid on it. 
Usually the man who t.1 s carried it 
was a native who had distilled it him­
self, and he became known as a boot­
legger and the liquor he caried as 
bootleg whisky. Nowadays, of course, 
It Is any form of liquor sold in viola­
tion of the law.
Rattlesnake’s Rattle.
The rattle of the rattlesnake is de­
veloped from the single' scnle or epi­
dermal spine, which In most snnkes 
forms the internal tegument of the 
tall. The bone on which the root of 
the rattle rests consists of the last 
caudal vertebra and' is covered with a 
skin which Is the beginning of the rat­
tle in young rattlesnakes.
Advertising
PROMOTES
Progress
ADVERTISE IN THE TARTAN
We are nearing the end of the year. 
Just a few more days until school is 
over, and a new group of alumni will 
fare forth into the cold, cold world. 
There is no doubt, that with Carnegie 
traditions, and with four and perhaps 
five years of hard work behind them, 
they are well equipped to make a 
mark for themselves in whatever line 
of industry they may undertake. 
However, we wish to suggest that 
wherever possible, the Old Grads will 
give the new men a helping hand, 
and will give them the benefit of that 
Old Carnegie Spirit which bound 
them together so closely in school.
The undergrads wish to thank the 
alumni for the splendid co-operation 
which they exhibited during C. W. 
Elsewhere on this page is a statement 
of the number of alumni who regis­
tered for Campus Week. We hope 
that the number will be much great­
er next year, and that a still more 
elaborate program will be planned 
for them-
The Tulsa Clan has contributed the 
article in regard to oil operations 
which appears, in this issue. Infor­
mation of this nature is sincerely ap­
preciated and we wish to take the 
liberty of suggesting that other clans 
follow this example.
If it were possible for the clans in 
the diiferent sections of the U. S. to 
send in a survey of employment con­
ditions in their district at regular in­
tervals, and to have this printed in 
The Tartan, both alumni and gradu­
ating students would be greatly as­
sisted. This would mark a distinct 
step toward a closer co-operation be­
tween the alumni and the scliool, and 
will help unattached alumni to obtain 
positions.
In this closing issue of the year, 
the staff extends its best regards to 
the alumni and bids au revoir until 
the first issue of the coming year.
HOW GREAT MEN: MAKE LOVE
AS REVEALED BY THEIR • 
LOVE LETTERS
By JOSEPH KAYE
(© by Wheeler Synillcato, Inc.)
WM. H. PRESCOTT AND 
SUSAN PRESCOTT
TX7ETEN a young man named Wil- 
11am Hlckllng Prescott graduated 
from Harvard in 1814, a fellow laAV 
student In a boisterous mood threw a 
hard piece of bread at random. The 
fall of that utterly trivial object was 
responsible for creating one of the 
world’s most celebrated historians. 
The piece of bread struck Prescott In 
one eye and strangely enough blinded 
It. Soon the other eye became affect­
ed and Prescott thereafter spent Ills 
life In total blindness, his vision being 
so weak that he could read for orily a 
few moments at a time, If at all.
The usual careers being- closed to 
him through his Infirmity, Prescott de­
cided upon being a historian. The 
work that he accomplished Is a monu: 
ment erected to Indomitable will, 
cheerful courage and unfilnchlng per­
severance. Historical research is the 
most difficult of all literary work; 
one must wade through literally tons 
of books and manuscripts; one must 
travel exhaustively, seek and ferret, 
generally act the literary detective 
and finally compose the work from a 
vast accumulation of notes.- All this 
was done practically by this blind man. 
His “History of the Reign of Ferdi­
nand and Isabella the Catholic," in 
three volumes, achieved instant fame 
when it was published, gaining £or the 
author membership In the Royal 
Academy of History of Madrid. Other 
historical works followed and assured 
Prescott a niche in the world’s hall of 
fame.
Prescott’s method of work is Inter­
esting. He employed secretaries who 
read to him from the books and manu­
scripts he consulted. As the secretary 
read, Prescott stopped him frequently 
and dictated notes. When the time 
came for writing, the author would 
ask his assistant to read to him all 
the notes compiled for a chapter! 
Prescott would then memorize the sub­
stance of these notes and outline the 
chapter in his mind. This was fol­
lowed by at least half a dozen mental 
rehearsals of this outline, after which 
lie wrote- out the chapter in detail. 
This writing was done by aid of a spe­
cial appliance..' A frame with wire 
cross rules was laid over a sheet of 
writing paper; underneath this sheet 
was a carbon and under the carbon 
another sheet. With a bone stylus 
Prescott wrote over the frame, the 
wires acting as guides and spaces; no 
writing was. of course, visible on the 
upper sheet, the carbon copy being the 
manuscript. This system carried with 
it many annoyances; often after-Pres!- 
cott had laboriously written a page, 
he found that he had forgotten to In­
sert the undersheet, thus wasting time 
and, what was more Important, the 
trend of thought.
The following graceful and loving 
letter was written by Prescott to his 
wife from Antwerp, where he had gone 
In the course of his researches:
“Dear Susan, I never see anything 
beautiful in nature or art, or hear 
heart-stirring music in the churches, 
the only place where music does stir 
my heart, without thinking of you. and 
wishing you could be by my side, if 
only for a moment. . . .’’
Recogoition Jewelry 
At Alumni Office
Airplane Views of Campus 
Ready For Distribution
Makes 'Em Cool Headed.
Said Herb, the office philosopher: 
“I have found the best way to cool 
down the noisy enthusiasm of children 
is to give them an ice box on the ear.” 
—Indianapolis Star.
It is entirely fitting that Carnegie 
alumni and those seniors who are 
about to become alumni, should wear 
some distinguishing insignia which, 
mark them as having been Carnegie 
students. For this purpose, recogni­
tion jewelry has been designed and 
placed on. sale at the Alumni Office. 
Rings, bar pins, buttons charms, and 
several other forms are available, all 
of them bearing the design of the 
thistle surrounded by four Carnegie 
colors.
This jewelryy was introduced son-e 
time ago and has been on display at 
the Alumni Office ever since. Appar­
ently, few know of its existence or 
have forgotten about it. Alumni are 
earnestly requested to avail them­
selves of the opportunity of obtaining 
this jewelry and to write the office 
in regard to prices and other details. 
The nature of the design is such that 
it could very well become standard 
among alumni: it is both distinctive 
and unique, and can be obtained in a 
variety of forms for either men or 
women. There is nothing ostenta­
tious or flashy about the appearance 
of any of it, but it immediately at­
tracts ones attention by virtue of the 
unusual design- K. B. Tilbrook at 
the Alumni Office will be very glad 
to furnish any information in regard 
to this jewelry upon request.
Airplane views of the campus have 
been taken recently and are on sale 
at the office. No doubt, a lot of the 
old grads who have not been back to 
school for several years would be 
quite surprised at the number of 
changes which have taken place on 
the campus. The new gym is only 
one of a number of recent additions. 
These views are remarkably good and 
give one a splendid conception of the 
appearance of the school and its sur­
roundings. They can be obtained 
from the Alumni Office at twenty-five 
cents apiece.
Polishing Diamonds.
Before the polishing of a diamond 
Is begun the rough stone must be held 
firmly. This is accomplished by build­
ing a solder mold for it. The mold is 
first roughly shaped by hand and 
heated. It is then reshaped as often 
as necessary to fit the stone perfectly. 
When it is exactly right, it is heated 
again and the stone dropped in. Held 
firmly by the snug solder mold, the 
stone canuthen be handled easily.
LEARN TO DANCE
—at the—
Jacques School of Dancing 
Craig and Forbes Streets f 
Beginners Monday and Friday 
evenings. Advanced Thursday and 
Saturday evenings. Private lessons 
by appointment.
This is a School—
Not a public dance hall.
The Fraternity of 
Business
Begin now to form tho associations 
and habits that will serve you when 
you enter the business world. A 
bank account, aside from the tan­gible value, furnishes experience 
and contacts which will operate to your advantage in later yeaxfl.
The personal interest of Mellon of­
ficers in the financial welfare of depositors is one of the outstand­
ing characteristics of the institu­
tion. Our experience and busi« ness judgment are at your service.
Capital and Surplus $12,000,000.00
iCHello Man!
Don't forget my 
Wrigley’a. Bring 
it when you call 
on si a ter.”
Insure .your wel­
come with this 
wholesome, long- 
lasting sweet.
Use it yourself 
when work drags« 
It is a great little
