JMen must be at liberty to 
¦ gay in print whatever they 
¿ja ve in mind to 6ay, pro­
vided it wrongsnoone.
—CHARLES A. DANA
VOL. 29, NO, 2CARNEGIE INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY, PITTSBURGH, PA.TUESDAY, OCT. 2, 1934
Chemical Eng. Society 
Meets Here ¦ Nov. -14 . 
For 27th Conference
Dr..Webster N. Jones 
Will Be Chairman 
Of Convention
Members to Visit 
Carnegie Labs
Dr. J. H. James Appointed 
Chairman of Technical 
Sessions, Reports .
The American Institute of Chem­ical Engineers will convene tor Its twenty-seventh annual meeting on ' Thursday, November 14, "with Dr. Webster N. Jones, dir College of Engineering, eral chairman.of the c<
¦ of the
is- chairman of a technical - session that will convene during the con­ference. UpperclasB chemical en­gineering students at Pitt aud Car­negie will be invited to the' techni­cal., sessions as guests of the In­stitute.'
pies and applications of chemical, engineering will bo given during the imornlng sessions of the Insti­tute.- The afternoon will he de-
Mellon Institute, and the Univer­sity of, Pittsburgh.The program for the first eve­ning Includes a lecture on a popu­lar subject, a dinner, and dance at the University Club. Carnegie’s Department of Drama will be the
“Glass Houses’’ .in the Little The­ater. A block- of seats has been reserved for the group at the- T#ch- Duquesne game at the stadium on
. _ïo',~Dr.; Edward vR.-. •^èidïein. '-di- rector of the Mellon Institute;! hon-' orator, chairman; Dr. Francis C.. , Frary; director of research,Aluminum Company of America, vice-chairman, and T. G. Tlmby, of the McKeesport Tin Plate Com­pany, secretary and treasurer.Other committees, in addltton tp the one headed by Dr. Jones, and the chairmen are as follows: Reg­istration, Dr. Harrison C. Bashl- oura,, head of the department of chemical engineering at Pitt; ac- . commodations, B. J. Casselman, holder of Industrial fellowship at Mellon Institute; plant visits, Ray-
Duecker, senior fellow at Mellon Institute; entertainment, E. E. Marbaker, a consulting chemical
The flrst meeting in Pittsburgh
the Mellon Institute. ‘The American Institute of Chem- ical Engineers comprises a vela* tively small group of scientists who sre engaged primarily in unit op­erations of the chemical inaustry. In them is combined tCe clicmlst, and the executive. This profes­sion came into prominence during
• through -líieir activity the-;United States was made independent of foreign supplies._________________
ty-seventh conference of the A. I.
Women’s A.A. 
Will Sponsor 
Dinner Mon.
H. Harpster to Address 
Group; Admission 
Price 30 Cents
Howard Harpster, Carnegie foot­ball coach, and Clyde S. Glschel '35, head ' cheerleader, will be guests of honor at a dinner given by the Women's Athlctic Associa­tion on Monday, October.8, at 5:30 p. m., In the Margaret Morrison llecreation Hall.
Mr (Harpster. will explain the. fa­ules, regulations, and:; pen-
benefits of 'supporting, a.11 the. i
several Carnegie songs and cheers.
This is the first time that tha W. A. A. has ever held a dinner foi the express purpose .of giving tli£ [reshman women an opportunity to
made by a committee consisting of- Marjorie Green ’3G, Claire Fred­erick ’37,'and Betty Mackey '36. The price of admission is 30 ccnta.
The W. A. A. conducts the entire athletic program.for Carnegie wo­men. Among the sports it super-
àrcherÿ, under tbe. .supervision of Claire Fred­erick '37and . hockey, under the
TARTAN CANDIDATES MEET
: Freshman and transfer students who are candidates for positions on the Tartan' staff will meet next Tuesday at 11:30 in Room 106 Arts. This will be. tbe. initial meeting of the new reporter group prepai-tory to beginning the course of instruc­tion in' journalism offered by the senior members of the Tai-tan staff.Any student who is lnterested in newspaper work as well as in shar­ing the opportunity of winning a senior staff:.position, J number of which carry sauries, should report at. the above time. • . .
Process of Registration Causes 
Students Many Trials, Tribulations
Anna E. Ladd 
Well, here we are back at school 
again and all s^t to start oil; with 
a bang. That is if there is any­
thing much left of us after all tiro 
preliminaries of getting back, course, being does help si alone nearly -Getting a schedule made out and approved '’by everyone concerned, the wheels turning around.
and signed by the head of .- partment. Here .is where the fuo begins. She or he then gives us a long strip of paper, about a yard . and a quarter in length—more or less, called the permit to register. The- strip honestly seems to get & few inches longer each year. -• Wuil; as-we iwere saying, after get­ting this slip, it must be Ailed out.And iHowl
. thousand, nine hundred and nine-' ty-nine times, besides our Pitts­burgh and home addresses. Still "we. arent- through.' The powers . that be want, to know our. parents’ names, what each of • them . do. ¦where they were born, where we .were born, what church we attend:. and. .about a hundred other ques- Upns.v.You.woUldn.’tbelleve.thac .^P-^any-.dlfferenV-iiueBtiona could-
little walk over to the gym with three of the lour schedule cards, the permit to register, andthe sub­ject cards • ticked- •securely under.
ttiecrowd, we pass by several peo-1 pie who look like sentinels, people at desks, an^ people at typewrit­ers; each of whom examine air the cards In and out, up and. down. Wouder of wonders, they all 'man­age to. find something we have for­gotten to All' 'in or have tilled in v/PORg: --Thc sad partvconifs next». We must pay, although the cur­rent opinion is that it. is. papa who pays and pays. Last but not least, more people stop us. Some take a few of our cards, for which we give a sigh of relief,-while others give us more things to carry away 
with us.Oh me, call you think of a hard­er life than that of a poor inno­cent college, student going through the-.process of registration?. Yes, I- can—the persons who have to vrefrdTour iiWritlng on the cards and permit.^
ÉÉlsil
Head Coach 
Speaks Today 
At Assembly
Howard Harpster Begins 
Second Year As 
Carnegie Mentor
Lovewell,Overend, 
Lewis, Croft Talk
Freshmen, Kiltie Band Will 
Parade to Music Hall; 
Expect Big Crowd
Howard Harpster '28, head coach of tbe football team, will be the principal speaker at the general as­sembly which will be held today, at 11:30, in the Carnegie Music
* Donald Lovewell ’23, assistant coach, Clarence Overend, graduate manager of athletics, Thurman Croft '35 ana Libbus Lewis ’35, (
also address tween talks the cheerleaders will lead tbe assembly in a number of Carnegie cheers, and songs.: Freshmen are' required to attend the assemblies. This being the first assembly of the year, the freshmen will gather In front of the Administration Hall,, and then parade to the Music .Hall behind' the Kiltie Band.. Lovewejl Drills LinemenDonald Lovewell, a former star on the Carnegie football team, was assistant to Howard Harpster at Geneva before taking ovei dutleB ?t Carnegie last. year, assistant coach here pud Geneva he has drilled the linemen, and is noted for developing strong
The committee in chai _ rangements has selected the Menmu sall for this assembly as they pect one of the largest crowds the year. They request the tendance of. faculty members and upperclassmen.Student. Council, at their meet­ing last Tuesday, voted $250 to be used in securing outstanding men to address the monthly assem­blies. According to Mr. Davis, executive. secretary of the Y. M. C. A.,'this appropriation is to ,1m- prove the attendance of .upperclass­men. by. securing better speakers for the assemblies.
Jack McKee *36 Receives A Grades in All Subjects; 
Seniors Have Largest Class Representation; 
3,15 Factor Requited for Honor Roll
Fine Arts Classes 
’ Organize; Picnics
First OutiDg Will Be Held 
By Sophomores Oct. 5
for all the classes. These picnics,
fort to bring together thè students
The Sophomore picnic, under the chairmanship of' Wilfred F. Slocum '37, president'of the Soph­omore class, will be the first one to be held. . It will take place at Spreading Oaks, South Park,. on Friday, October 5. The arrange«
meeting last'Friday, include games and contests to begin, at 4 o'clock.
. THISTLE STAFF MEETSThe thistle staff will hold its or­ganization meeting in the Tartan
be present. The editor would also like-to meet all those who are in­terested in working on. the staff at
I COMING EVENTS
11:30—Assembly—Carnegie Mu­sic-Hall.Wednesday—
6:00—Teknon Club meeting— Shadyside Presbyterian Church..8:00—Baptist Student Reception. .-¿Ffrst Baptist Church._____Friday—4:00—Sophomore Arts Picnic— Spreading Oaks, South .{park. 4:00—Y. M. and Y. W.; C.-A..Cbn- * ference — M. M. Recreation
Game—Stadium.9:<i'Vr-Mlarc>i Football Dancc- Thistlô; Hall.Monday— \ .5 0—W tA, ADinner—Carnegie
Sècórid Semester Honor Roll 
Shows 25 Per Gent Increase
about eleven per cent of the enrolt-
ond semester of the school year, 1933-34.This indicates a net increase of about 25 per. cent over that of the flrst semester of last school year when 1S2 were listed on the' Honor Roll under the new system. Under the new system a factor of 3.16 or .15 .higher than a B average, Is required while only a B avetage -was needed before.The list is the largest, from .the standpoint of numbers and, per- itage, since the publishing.of .the
The .College of Englneerlng.led: in the distribution by colleges with 88 honored. Margaret Morrison Carnegie College placed 64 onthe list; College of Fine Arts, 53; tba gineerlng and industries freshinèn, 32; and the College of Industries) 14, Margaret Morrison Collegè'.and
ttie¿ College of Engineering both shewed a gain.over .that of the first .semester of last year 
' i^hie senior clnss, with 91 listed, hod the largest class representa* tlon. The following is the list of
aniä ifreshman, 61.
: Oie student, iack E. McKee, '36, jleghrtment of commercial engineer* _ing; received A grades in all sub­jects.to earn a factor of 4.00. ;Val- ¡entine • Luedeke. ’34, Wallis Hamil­ton ’35,-.and Edward Ivreh ‘37 led Jthq Honor; Roll lists tor other .classes.
•• The number listed by closes for 
^the;: respective colleges is as fol- lory's: ; : College of Engineering ^Seniors, 42; Juniors, 19; Sopho­mores, .27; (largaret Morrison Car* vnegle College' Seniors, 20; Juniors,
20¿. Juniors, 13; Sophom<___,__r•Pfeshihen,, 0; College of Industries Seniors; 9; Juniors,-2; Sophomores, 3; ;and the Engineering and Indus­tries’FreBtimeñ¿ 32. ' : ¦
First Football 
Dance Follows 
Miami U. Gamè
9-12 Frolic to Feature 
Balloon Dance; Band» 
Not Yet Chosen
Carnegie’s first football -dance 
of the season, will be held . from 
9:00 to 12:00 Saturday, October 6, 
in Thistle Hall.
. Sponsors of these dances in 
order to advertise their programs 
will in a few days distribute among 
studenls, cards bearing the^fav-- 
orite song of Miami Univeraity-rour 
opponents for next' Saturday.;To 
make tbe football dances more'en- 
.tertajpingthe^Bp.onao.i^-ai^.l^aug-
tbc football, season;' This week the first' of these novelties wlir be 'a balloon dance. The winner will receive a prize to be donated by Louis Gordon ’ of the Woodlawn ¦pharmacy. Orchestras for the flrst football dance are still being contacted and the one selcted will be announced on .the circulars pre­viously mentioned.
Invitations to act as cbaperons for this first dancn have been ex­tended to Dr. and' Mrs. J. H. Neeley, Dr. and Mrs. B. E. Warden, and Prof. and Mrs. L. T. Lawler. Guests of Honor invited to attend the dance include Mary Watson Green, Dean of Women, Dean and
and Dr. and
Frosh, Sophs 
(Slash in Kush 
tor Numerals
Inter - Class Rope Pull 
Talks, Band, Cheers 
Part of Pep Rally
:: In;. ^ccordauce .with the new tra ditipn inaugurated' on the campus last;year'Tbefpre. the first' home g'anie, •' the.' freshmen and sopho- i will stage a'Numerals Rush e Carnegie with a Pep Friday evening.
tweán’the. twócláásea.¦i, ;Fw,the-Numerals'1 :Ru?h an^equa ^3™er¿of.;men : wiIl. bé' chosei áWjBt- ekch'-dlabt^eiirMday-^ven Ing'when the classes assemble ti etage the event. The freshmen will atLempt to capture the numerals *'37" to be painted on a canvas pended between two poles placed In the ground. A limited amount of time will be given -.for . tbe "Rush.”The Kiltie band and the cheer­leaders will be present to complete the program In which all of the student body will have a part.Is expected. that a large number will be present, as this rally pre­cedes the flrst home gatne.wlth Miarnl,To compete In.the contests the freshmen must wear dark clothes, and the sophomores aré to wear light clothes. All freshmen desir­ing to compete In th^ contests should sign up on the bulletin boards in the respective college buildings.
Harpster Gives “Low Down5,9 
On Carnegie’s Grid Chances
Thumb Nail Sketch of Grid Coach Traces. Thread 
That Has Bound Him So Closely to 
Carnegie Gridiron History
prohibition was still a "noble perlment" and the old folks danced thè polka, played whist, and sang ¦'When You and I Were Young Maggie," a youngster by the name Harpster was breaking into print on the sports pages of the
At. home Dad> Harpster, a i ful Akron architect, was making to follow in his footsteps. 1923 was . a ' banner 
„ £$SS1 y«ar for Carne-
1
gie, for listed
w e re Howard Harpster '2S, Department of
*\ ,S
Sasfifl Don Love well,
iiJliirfB young men who Coach Harpeter were destined to 
find for Carnegie a place in the football sun. .. • ¦ *They say of Howard Harpster that in seven years of high school and college playing he never had a punt blocked.'' His ability as'ti forward passer has gone down. In the history of Pennsylvania college teams. Time, after.time as a hush settled' over thousands, in. the stands, he kicked cooly - and care­fully between tbe posts.Harpster Notre Dame’s Jinx . Stories of (Harpster.as-a.college star sound like a volume of the Dick Mcrrlwell series. It is said that he could hit a half dollar witn a- pass at twentjr-flve.xarads; As a sophomore undef. twenty#vears of age he .-generated'- Ehe r. Tartans.ito
ped field goals over the heads of the befuddled Irish for a 19-0 vi< tory, the first defeat .tbe South
Two years later Harpster quar­terbacked Carnegie’s greatest gridiron machine to another, vic­tory over Notre Dame. Then “Harp” ran into one of his great­est disappointments. The violet of N. Ys U. invaded Forbes Field and walked away on tbe long end of -the -score. Accounting for tbo upset Harpster said “We had reached great heights the
to N. Y. U. because they '
his fifth year In school so he’ cépted a coaching position at; Shadyside'; And there begins an-
going so smoothly i white football, teams of Geneva College, so expert fixer-upper Harp- sterj the ink hardly drybrought onto the
" Assisting 'in the - coaching- dutles-l at . Geneva was Don Lovewell bad been playing guard on same great teams that Howard
coaching teams In major college foottiall. in three years the foot­ball fortunes of Geneva took a de­cided- upturn, in. Iaa2 Hiarpstera team .came .within an ace of win­ning the conference championship % (Continued • on. Page.-Four)
Carnegie Guild 
Sponsors Tag 
Day for Funds
Sale Starts 11:30 Today; 
Ruth H. Schmelz Is 
Head of Drive
Contributions Will 
Aid Poor Families
Any Amount lb' Acceptable; 
Guild Board Members 
Will Handle Sale
The. annual membership drlvo 
sponsored by the Carnegie Guild 
will officially' open on the campus 
today and continue through tomor 
row.. From 11:30 to.1:30 tags will 
be sold in the halls of Margaret 
¦Morrison Carnegie College, the Col­
lege of Fine ArtB, and the College 
of-Engineering. Any. contribution 
for the tags will be accepted. Ruth 
IH. Schmelz '35, Department of 
Home Economics,' is general chair­man of the drive; She will be as­sisted. in thé sale of togs by the class representatives on the Guild Board.The funds collected by the drive have been used, In previous years, for various charitable purposes such .as the furnishing of club rooms In neighborhood nnd settle­ment houses, contributions to orphanages and hospitals, and sup­port of destitute families. This year the Guild hopes to bring1
ontirely a women’s organization and wa.B supported solely by the women on the campus. This yoar, since the program of activities has been enlarged,- more funds will be needed. For- this reason, the. guild aslcs the support of the. men.The annual Charity Ball which will be held.on Friday, October 19, Is being sponsored by the Guild ns an additional source- of revenue. The ball Is the first formal affair scheduled on the. Carnegie, social calendar. Margaret P. Barr '35, De­partment of Home Economics; is
M. M. Alumnae 
Name Officers
J. Harrold ’12 Is President, 
Federation Director
The Margaret 'Morrison Alumni association- in its annual calendar haB announced its officers and members of, the Executive commit­tee for the school-year 1934:1935. They are: ' jane -C. Harrold '12, president and Federation director; Eleanor Rlesmeyer '34, first vice
Thorpe '19, secretary-treasurer and Federation director.Irene Q. Harnack '09, Federation director; Gall &. Fettke *17, ex- officio ; Helen E. Hackett '20, choir-
sentatlve of 1933; and Loretta Conlin *34, representative of 1934.Heading special committees are Leah Voegtly ' ’34, chairman of scholarship; Lenore Read '17, chairman of. auditing; and -Helen
Smallwood ’26, Eunice C. Peter's '27, Louise K. Gill ’28, Gertrud* Zenk ’29, Mildred Bastían ’30, Ruth
COUNCIL BRIEFS
At the first meeting of the Fall term Student Council accomplish­ed the following business: Apiproved the 1934-35 social cai- endar as read-by Mr. Clements ’36.Approved the' appointment of William G. Holiday ’36 as chain man of assemblies. ' ,Discussed the appropriation of $500 to provide for suitable asseui--biy-speakers. .............-Approved .the appointment of Eleanor Sherman '36;. as chairman of the Foreign Student Committee.:' Accepted tho recommendation that Alpha Rho Chi and all other professional and honorary frater­nities be prohibited from pledging freshme'h in the future. . • Approved the'preliminary 'prepa­rations for the l!M5 Thistle.. - Approved the date of-October 23 for ' election of freshman .officers ands elections for vacant-upperdass
Slight Increase Noted 
Over Previous Years 
In Day Registration
2077 Students Registered 
Show Increase of 72 
Over 1933 Figures
Late Registration 
Fee Is Withdrawn
College of Engmecrwgj'Leiids; ' 
Fine Arts School Has 520; 
M. M. Enrolls 465
Dr, Veevold N. Krlvobok, whithe Campbell Mei
Dr. Kriyobok
Will Address 
Metallurgists
Lecturer Presents New 
Attainments in Steel 
Research Field
will deliver the Cninpbell Memorial
this week. Dr. Sauveiir, professor of metallurgy at Harvard Univer­sity and a former professor of Dr. Krlvobok's, will introduce tbe speaker and preside over the Con­gress.The lecluro is presented annually by one who has -.(ichleved^outBtand- Ing success .In ..the!, field of metal­lurgy, and Is named In the-memory, of•; Dr. vHoward- DeMille•; Campbell. .Rficelxl^raii'iiwAfetlpR -io^dftfive^. thla-leLturo-isiocnaldered.tq.be.one of the most outstanding'' honors which can lie granted to a living man in the fiold of metdls research;
Subject Matter ls*New
The subject matter of Dr. lCrlvo-
foro has not been published. Dr. Krlvobolc has been at work on this material for the past two years.In connection with his lecture Dr. Krlvobok has developed a five- minute motion picture which he uses to illustrate three dimension graphs showing the relation of various properties of steel. To pro­duce this film, he used the prlncl-
column of mercury on thè side in­dicating the auuntity of the third dimension and Its effect on the graph. For eyery the second film Is shown, 16 diagrams had to be
On Staff 10 Years
Dr. Krlvobok has been on the staff at Carnegie for 10 years.
directs the graduate metallurgical students and duo largely 'to his efforts and with the aid of Dr Baker and Mr. Orbln, tbe under- graduate and graduate, departments, have increased -the scope of their work.The National Metals Congress opened last Monday and will con-
The estimate that Carnegie's on- ollmont would be five per- cent . that of a year ago has
had enrolted in comparison to 2,005 at the same time o. year ago,"ac­cording to the partially complete figures from the office of the Reg* -' istrar, Alan Bright.•’ Duo to a temporary withdrawal of tbe one dollar a day fine tor late registration, It is expected that the final, tally of registered stu- ¦ dents will indicate-a fivo-per cent Increase over that of last year’s : registration. Because, many, stu­dents .wore having flnanolal dUfilcul*.
registration was withdrawn..Mr. Bright pointed out that "it Is good that general oconomic con- . -- dltlons have caused registration . figures to bo about the same, fox It Is not the aim of Carnegie to build up a large enrollment-, as' : somo other leading Institutions/ have done. Unlike many other col' leges, we are maintaining about tho': samo enrollment as that of normal .- times."
Thlrfy-two Graduates Enroil :In commenting on the Increase'}.. In the number of students doing > graduate work at Carnegie,- 'he ' snld that only a few were accepted. from those applying - for; entrance '. In the graduate school, nnd. tliat there is no neod for the iindorgmd- ., uute student bo^ly to contend that'^. tho. graduate school Vis-.being;- etii‘;C, larged, to the. extent of decreasing -' the . attention- given - to. those - doing . V 
-'dents' d6lng'grfl.dnate-workv"With^23-a'^ In.the College of Engineering-and: ' three In the College of- Fine Artq." •This year's- enrollment is dls- ' ¦ trlbuted by classes as follows.--'tbe. ' figures representing this vear’s
The figures for the day school .registration- for this and the' last ’ four years are as follows: 1930>31^ • 2317; 1931-32, 2376: 1932-33. 2196; 1933-34, 2006; «and 1934-36, 2077: ¦ More Figures Latei Complete figures will not : bo available until later'In the. semes­ter when a complete report will-be published in the Tartan, and-morefv accurate comparisons can be raade.The total enrollment-for the Col-_^ lege of Engineering is 784 as com-" pared to 711 a year ago. • This In­crease in enrollment In the College ^' of'EngJnerlng was partially due to tbe consolidation of the industries'. College-and'1 Engineering.The freshman Engineering class* shows an Increase of 2 wlth-298 enrolled now. A large percentage -
Fine-Arts, 520; and Margaret Moro rlson College, 466. These .latter' ’figures are about the same as thosë. '
Interesting Financial Facts Related 
By Ass’t Treasurer in Interview
By trvlng GruberIn an efforc to discover some -items of .interest about registration (if any)—having experienced the, drudgeries—the writer decided to h.<ervlew Mr. 'William A. Morten, assistant treasurer of Carnegie Institute and Carnegie Institute of
unprecedented condition of affairs on the Campus-during the bank moratorium March, 1933. On short notice banks throughout the Entire nation closed. • Out-of-town- ..stu­dents here at Carnegie .were un­able to cash checks, received from home.- Mr. Morten was: faced with .the problem of feeding' the stu-
cards printed, which, were honored at 'the school cafeterias./; These cards were given to the-'students without. any collateral deposited with the - school.-, . It' ia. -lntAreBtlns to .note that every loan was satls- ?..the banking system
nterfelt Money Last' year (1933-34) $684,706.00 was received. In tuition: Mr. Mol­ten was asked .whether any coun­terfeit money was
if It were ever - attempted, the cashiers could detect . it immedi­ately. After, a. few-years' ^experl-.
terfeit note by the feel of the Ear '' per, according to tho treasurer,-../:;.-!^ wlio was formerly* in tbe banking’' * business. • • SiM
Mr. Morten said that very, few'< come back and .those thatdoarei1 usually ; because of a technicality^ such'as lack.of date òr impropei^—-« indorsement., ....Few Losses on 'Notes "There are, hardly any, losses'.,oa>> the payment of notes,1'Vavèrred-Mìri;^ .Morten..' “We thought wè'.'were;:’ not''going to collect a noté young man who quit school about!K^^S eight years ago. ' ' He had. moy^v-^ from hisv original address - and^o^vi^ were'unable to trace, him.' FinaU^i'^ after eight .years we were: ablèÌ:tp'|ì-;i:- ^et in. touch .with him’,^ He'.wès^Mì^ financial success' and"was glàrdCfó^£ pay his note;” ••’ ; Mr.'.Riorten. revealed ¦ that; V onevlv>'a ÿoüng'.stud^nt, realizing; his fam'Uy*:^ was scrimping to. send hLm.throngh.^ ' '6chool(/;quit -because. he;-could .iap.^ study while ' thinking 'oC iwhatiiiia^..., parénti-were /undergoing -.forv.tìifiS^i The boy’s 'father, ‘after.mânipi'* ing a loan, assured his.:son ithat^ was not auch a hardship.; _ young man returned. to :achoolii_ todav.'.is .one ;.o£^ Carnegle-s .beiïî students f % W -*¡5

---------------------------------------------------

THE CARNEGIE TARTAN. TUESDAY, OCTOBER 2, 1934,
Alumni Trek 
Back to Alma 
Mater Oct. 26
Homecoming Celebration 
WiH Find Old Grads 
iu for Busy Time
y Stellar Attraction 
y ls 'Pnrdue Game
Glee Club, Kilties, Parade, 
Dance all Contribute 
To Entertainment
Alumni of Carnegie ¦will hold their eighth Annual Homecoming on October 26 and Si. the -week­end oi the Carne^ie-Purdue foot­ball game.
This reunion will mark tbe twen­ty-fifth anniversary of the class of 1909 as -well as tbe regular year reunions of tbe classes of 1914, 1919, 182-4, and 1929, and the
atnmm -will be made at tbe Brown House. T.here information concern­ing various homecoming events
ined from the welcoming and registration “5. Bloom E’21. C rom E’24, E. H. K and Miss Katherine •/Shuman A‘22.
Luncheon to be Served 
Luncheon for Alumni will be served at 12:45 Friday, October 2, in. Carnegie Inn, and will Inaugu­rate the custom or seating mem­bers of each clas at group tables, . 'with an official representative to act as- spokesman for the gronp. -The ¡uucbeon committee, under the chairmanship of C. J. Mont­rose E'24, has also planned a pro­gram to be presented at that time- 
Friday afternoon the Alumni will parade at 2:10 o'clock. Led by the Kiltie Band, the R. O. T. C. and all Honorary societies, this parade is to remind the returning clansmen of their early days on the campus and, more particularly, to bring back memories of the parade after Carnegie beat Notre Dame in 1926.
Full Program Planned 
Class-plale presentation, call of alumni dans, recognition of the dass cf 1934 as a clan, and sing­ing;'- -ofschool songs led-by. the
iscence with members of the fac- , ulty will take' place.
Altar, greeting the faculty, all re­turning Alumnae and wives of r.3ünmni are Invited to meet with . .Dean-Green in the Women’s Clob room'in the Gymnasium at 4:00 o'clock for tea. At the same time their husbands are invited to bring ;'.their salts and help re-incarnate • the old swimmia’ hole in the school pooL
At 7:15 o'dock, TYiday, Alumni 'will be guests at the pep party and bonfire to prepare for the game Sat­urday and to meet the coach, Don „ Lovewell, as well as Co-Captains Lewis and Croft.
Invited To Theater
Later the same evening at 8:00, returning clansmen are invited to utilize the two tickets for the Lit- "flè theater received at registration . to attend a Carnegie Drama De- ' partment presentation and a re­ception immediately following the show in the Exhibition Hall across the foyer from the Little theater. —Refreshments will be served under ..thé supervision of Mrs. C. D. Har- Eack (Irene Quinn) M’09, Miss Gertrude Novak, M'32, and Miss Harriet Morgan M’22. All frater- ' nities are preparing for smokers
the Schenley parkf; ..play golf I \ course iC they see 'Howard Bow- jv-man to make the necessary reser-
Alumni to See Purdue Game = - ' Afternoon brings the third toot- •, hall contest of the - year between f: Carnegie Tech and Purdue. Thef flatter team, haring won 36 games, ;. lost four, and tied two under the \ five years regime of Its present yr.Vrccach, will be the first real test (.<¦¦¦ of the year for Carnegie, ifAn informal dinner and floor 'j. show with “Squak*’ Taylor, and bis ¡•-. -orchestra furnishing the music will £ ; : be held at the.Hotel Schenley ban K , room after the game.
:>AIamnus Is Given 
Memorial Award
( Stewaxdson Qrant Furthers 
Study in Architecture
] On June 5 of this year James ¿> i Mitchell. 32. was awardedthe ¿chi_ 3-~;;Stewardson Memorial Scholarship f in Architecture, with a value of < b: -thousand dollars. The holder .L^-the-scholarshJp }S to pursue tbe •¿.vstSriyJ of architecture at home or . K- abroad, as determined hr the cam- :j£v:inlttee'and under its direction, v- v'- .- Only- persons who have studied op-- practiced, architecture In the Slat« of Pennsylvania are eligible. iS .'Tlie ^-competition is conducted in ‘«.-x-tWD stages- with a qualifying test j3i-'preceding - the - final competition. > K- Tfrfeawatd Is given to the candi- & date who shows promise of mak- the greatest 'contribution to ^ th'c^'liBld 'oI architectuxe In th* 
¡kvyfeartvto come. :: lir-.^Those orfnpetlng with Mr. IS','liltcbeU; wire fcjjlo S. Holds teln. ^Hhd; Daniel B Jones of 'Carnegie.Johh ^W- Glo« and Jiewoomb ‘sktfi.SOntgoWry of the trnJLVersity P <*?'ip«mfeylranla: .- thfe Subject of f^the'wilMiing program was *A Na-
t or the country’s
^itSSi u at present -travel * JSùMïie* wllth-' D*hl®n Tr
^Änal5*
Results of^¿rtanfHónor Roll Snry.ey
The results of a': surrey of Honor-Boll stu­
dents conducted by the Tartan during tbe sum­
mer shows that the average student should 
practice the following rules of study if he 
would get the most benefit out of his course 
at Carnegie. The percentages quoted show 
how- the voting was divided on every question*.
1. Systematically review the textbook 
. and notes before final exams and quizzes.
97%; .
2. Spend the night before a final exam 
in study rather than relaxation. 53%.
3. Systematically review the textbook 
when facts previously learned are needed. 
81%.
4 Read over an assignment rapidly to 
get a general idea of the author’s treat­
ment and then study in dctaiL 65%.
5. As you read keep notes in some sys­
tematic way, such as in a notebook. 61%.
6.. Budget your time for each subject, 
and follow a fairly definite study sched­
ule. 72%.
7. Explain problems and processes for 
other students when there is an opportu­
nity to do so. 9S%.
S. If you do not understand how to 
proceed in solving a problem, try to reason 
out tbe procedure rather than looking up 
the solution of other problems. 83%.
9. In general check each problem by 
reworking it after it is completed. 52%.
10. Cheek each operation in a problem 
as it is performed. 68%.
11. Bead the textbook relative to the 
subject matter of a laboratory experiment 
before doing the experiment. 90%.
32. "When doing an experiment, read 
through and try to understand all the di­
rections before beginning to work; do not 
merely read the directions as the experi­
ment progresses. 93%.
By the indicated percentages the following 
study habits whrefi are often recommended to 
students were voted a waste of time or other­
wise not applicable to the subjects taught at 
Carnegie:13. Systematically review the textbook 
daily or at least weekly. 69%.
14. After studying an assignment recite
the lesson to yourself, either alond or in a 
whisper. 76%._______________________________
15. After studying an assignment write ' 
out a summary ór outline of the matérial 
read. 57%.
16. ..'Write up experiments in the labor­
atory with the equipment all set up, rather 
than taking notes and results of the experi­
ment and : writing., up the experiment at. 
home. 69%.
' A large number of students recommended 
tbe following study rules as being worth while 
and valuabie :
17. Make an effort to really concen­
trate while studying. Some students sug­
gested keeping tab with a watch to see 
that one does not Say dream too much in­
stead of studying.
13. Do your work as it is assigned, 
since it is dangerous to fall behind, even
for ti day.
Get plenty of sleep on .week day 
nights and before quizzes since grades at 
Carnegie are based entirely on the stu­
dent's ability to think efficiently and 
quickly during quiz periods.
20. Do your own work, both daily as­
signments and laboratory reports.
Tbe following habits were suggested by i 
smaller number of students:
21. Study assignments on the same day 
they are assigned. ,
2. Be sure to ask the instructor either 
in class or afterwards about any point 
which is not dear. .
23. Listen intelligently and attentively 
in the classroom, and make the notes as 
complete as possible.
26. Cultivate broad reading habits 
along the line of your course and if possi­
ble on world problems.
27. Study, discn&s, and compare notes 
with a classmate of your own ability.
28. Go over each evening the notes 
taken that day, checking for mistakes.
29. Have a regular place to study 
where you will not be interrupted—espec­
ially by the radio.
30. If a student- has real trouble with a 
subject even though be studies hard it is 
probably because he does not understand 
its relation to his course. He should make 
every effort to find out why the subject 
was included in his curriculum and' then 
try to »et. at the real heart of the subject.
Tartan Survey Discovers 
How ; Honor Stndents
Questionnaire Was Sent 
To Honor Stndents 
During Summer
Carnegie Students 
Make Suggestions
Fourteen New Suggestions 
Axe Added to Those 
Already Used
ing the average student should practice if he wishes to get the most out of his courses at Car-
Each Honor student was sent a Ifsc of IS study habits which are frequently recommended to college students, and was asked to mark which habits were valuable enough for the average Carnegie student to practice.
More than one-third of the per­sons who received. tie lists filled them out and returned them to the Tartan, and this fact
Prof. Thomas 
Edits Booklet 
On Hydraulics
Ten C. W. A. Men Assist 
Author in Collecting 
Data for Work
Will Construct Model
Graduates’ Thesis on “Flood 
Waves9* Used in Bulletin
booklet, entitled “Hydraulics of Flood Waves in Rivers.’* It was published by the Carnegie Institute of Technology as a technical bulletin of the school. The work was printed in tho Department of Printing at Car­negie as a C. TV. A. project Prof. Thomas was assisted in his work by tbe ten men assigned to him last winter under the C. W. A. plan. Eijiht of these men were Carnegie graduates. The thesis, •which I. L. Wissmiller, who graduate work in Hydraulics last year, and Marcus Sky '24. wrote on “Fiootl Waves,*’ was also used in preparing material for the book.Model Will Be Made According to Prof. Thomas, the teed tor material on flood waves in rivers is very great. In onlcr to : about the subject, i holds Hydra >nslruclsuitable model in the Hydraulic Re­search laboratory in Engineering Hall.In designing a retarding reser­voir system such as that proposed for flood protection of Pittsburgh, the reservoirs are placed on the tributaries. This reduces the flood waves on the tributaries and there­by reduces the flood on the main
the floods from the various tribu­taries.According to ProC. Thomas, pre­dicting the behaviour of flood waves is a very complex hydraulic problem. A slight mistake in the nay cause
Engineers Hear' 
Scientific Report
Former Student, Instructor 
Devise New Apparatus
factoring Company presented a pa.
Laplacian Equation,* at the annual Society for the Promotion of Engi­neering Education convention which wae held at Cornell Univer­sity in. June.
Mr. Schonvisner and Hr. Boyd, a former student at Carnegie, began
suit of their work is used principal ly to determine hydro-dynamic flow currents. It consists mainly of a flow tank, flow table, plotting mechanism, and electrical measur­ing equipment.
The flow tan’n, as t'je new appar­atus is called, Is not limited to hydro-dynamic work. It is also used in electric-conductivlty, elec­tro-static. electro-magnetic, heat flow, and stress problems.Before the advent of the flow tank, problems of this type wen solved mathematically or graphical­ly. Both or thei ...................disadvantage of complicated. By means of the flow tack, which is an experimental method, certain types of solutions are worked out more easily.The authors believe that this method of field plotting adapts it­self very readily to class experi-
Y.W.C.A. Invites Plebes. 
Upperclass Girls to Tea
The Y. W. C. A. Big and Little Sister lea will be held Wednesday, from 4 to 6. in Recreation Hall, Margaret Morrison Carnegie Col­lege. The tea is an annual event sponsored by the “Y.” Its purpose is to introduce tbe freshman girls to the upperclass women, and to aid the freshmen in-knowing each other.
A trio composed of Louise Win gold '36, Inez Graham ’37, and Annette Rosenson '36 will play
New Sliident-Facuity 
Group Is Projected
All Carnegie students and faculty 
members who are Interested in the 
formation of a group for the regu­
lar discussion of contemporary so­
cial problems are invited to at­
tend the organization peeling of 
tbls group, to be held' Thursday, 
October 4, at 11:30, In Room.255-A 
Industries. - . : -Carnegie students have long been Indifferent to tbe affairs of the out-
itudents in universities throughout the country. Interested persons unable to attend will please see Pblllp Morrison .’36, College of .En­gineering, phone Hazel 1462,- or Emily Kramer '36, Margaret Mor- i rison Carnegie College.
In TUBhes he was aald 1 The flrst one of them all.—-Dally Athenaeum.
STUDENTS', ARTISTS’ AND ENGINEERS' SUPPLIES 
SCHOOL SEAL JEWELRY AND STATIONERY 
10% Discount to Students 
PORBES STREET. Between Oakland and Boquet
LIKE A FEN ta AMER WIRU
achieveddespite the fact that the students were forced to provide their postage for returning tbe lists to che Tartan office. The results of the survey are published at the topof this page.14 RuìcThe questioiAddedere taken from ! Bureau of Ed-list of rules which ucational Research of the Univer­sity of Illinois found were regular­ly practiced by a large group of honor students in middle western colleges. It. Is interesting to note that four ot these suggestions
answering theIn addition questions the students were asked to write down the study habits which they have regularly prac­ticed during their course at Car­negie and any rules or suggestions
which were not indorsed were voted tiowu •iargèîy -îiciAuài time makes it impossible for the studenl to follow them. " Several Engineering students stated that ould be advisable to write upexperiments in the laboratory butCarnegie the experiments
Appoint New Assistant 
In Employment Office
Mr. Ray Hi Waftereon *29, ot the
John D. Beatty, head-’of .the Bureau of Recommendations. He will, fill the vacancy .left hy. Mr. Herbert L. Gran. /> Mr. Watterson wishes to an­nounce.that the'employment office will he open evsry Monday and Thursday :night for the conve­nience of'night school students.. .Miss Merrill requests all dav school students .who desire employ-
^ office in the Industries building jg&iiSg. }---------

---------------------------------------------------

lst iryot¦mt lrylJog lptwhrvg ¿il¿jty dg 6,­.3
Carnegie “Y” 
Will Sponsor 
Gathering Fri.i ¦ — ¦
' Afternoon Meeting to be 
In Recreation Hall'
Of M.M. at 4:00
One-day Conference
Authority on Church History 
i Will Be Guest Speaekr
Under the joint auspices of the Carnegie branches or the Y. M. C. A and the Y. W. C. A., the student body will be the host Friday to the first student Christian confer­ence ever held on the csmpu6.
The one-day conference will con­sist ot three meetings: an after­noon meeting scheduled for 4. o’clock In the recreation hall of Margaret Morrison Carnegie Col­lege a dinner meeting to be held ]D the main dining room of the Carnegie Inn at 6 o’clock and an aiter-dlnner meeting which wm be held at 7:30 in the Margaret Mor­rison recreation hall.
Dr. Pauck of the Chicago Theo­logical seminary-will be the con­ference speaker,; although his topic, aB yet, baa not been announced. Dr. Pauck is a German exchange student who was brought to-this country in the year 1926. He i'j an authority on church history, having been made assistant professor ot church history at the Chicago Theological Seminary and laiter a professor in the same field.Dr. Pauck is one of the Theo- 
All “Y" Branches Invited 
¦glcftl Seminary's contributions to
\M. >C. A- and Y. W. C. A.-for the ) of conducting conferences ing the fell, season.
.\vitatIOD9 were sent to all of I the student branches of the Y. M.. W. C. A. in the Pittsburgh jtrTct to attend the Carnegie con*i
erence. The attendance, however, s not restricted to Cabinet mem- ere. The registration fee will be one dollar, and reservations may be made through the Y office.
The ..officers of the Carnegie branches of the Y. M. and Y. W.... Cabinets iave been instru­mental in arranging details for the conference. The Y. W. C. A, Cab­inet officers are as follows: Gwen Haddock '36, president; Emily G. Bumgarner '36, vice president; Louise E. Meixner '36, treasurer: and Ruth A. Nichols.'37, secretary. The offlcersofthe- Y. M.-C. A. Cab-________ William H. Sharp '35,president; • Clifton P. Boutelle ’38, vice-president; and Antonio* G. Prendes ’37, secretary.
Faculty Member 
Speaks Over Air
New Research on Metals”; 
Is Subject of Address
r. Robert F. 'Mehl, director of 
,he Metals Research Laboratory 
ind professor of .metallurgy, who' •ecelved .the .awaTd of the Institute, ?f Metals Division of the American institute of Mining and Metallur- ;lcal Engineers In recognition of ils writing the best paper on netals. research ever published in Jie annals of the division, lecture 'New Research on Metals" last Thursday night .over .KDKA.
This 'broadcast'was one of a. se­ries :belng sponsored, by the Night School Office over KDKA by bers of the Carnegie faculty for the purpose of promoting the night, school courses.
In- Dr. Mehl'3 discussion metals .last Thursday, he explained in simple terms the atomic struc­ture of on© o.f our most commonly used metals, Iron,. because of its Importance to Pittsburgh. He said, 'Iron has the peculiar property-of existing in two different forms.temperature up to about 1.650. degrees.-Fahrenheit, a. good orange heat, one of these forms, called .alpha iron, exists. Above this temperature, another form called gamma .Iron exists. -- ,dlff< ways.; Iron: It has a dif- l .conductivity, j different 'kind 
»pace lattice.
. Pictures Space Lattice.
"To picture the space lattice of jamma Iron, the high temperature variety, imagine the outline 'ot a At. each cube corner there atom of iron, a total of eight itoms; also In the center of each 'ace or side of the cube there is atom of Iron, adding six
i we have at.ro.om temperature, a different arrangement In i .case we again picture the out- i of .a cube, and we again have itoms :at-each corner. But now we lave a- sinjtle attftn at the very 
:ent'ejvQf-thé óube.” . • '
In lron at room temperature, ac: :ording.;to Dr. Mehl, the distance iparf of 'the, atoms Is only c. iredmilllonth of an inch.But > I nee v s uch.-figures do not.convsy. uky*.Teat impression to our :mlnds,'' üs' that; If; the diameter, of Ironatom--were one ;mlle, one [net wwouldr:fae represented by : the. dbtanc^bf the earth .to. .the sun; or: ágalñ¿-..1f' the jron 'atom were Lift, size -of: .the head oí a .píar.^oí Inch would-atretch outtoonehun- dréd miles.”'
^Dimensions of the order, .of one Hundred millionth of an-inch are jisry.-. small Indeed, yet the.-develop- mint^of :modern X-ray is such that; these.'^distances >can be-measured tb?Óñevpart in forty, thousand,: as Is' .Áraé'¿a\mbst dally-rlnthe laborato- ^eá of the Carneg'e' Ias*ttu>e o* ^echnology.
44 Y” Cabinet 
Sponsors Club 
For 3rd Year
:ollegiate life at the expeilent of Mussolini.
Italian Students Visit Carnegie Caimpus 
On Goodwill Tour Among Colleges
Descriptive Volume, .Medal, 
Invitation Presented 
By Delegation
A group of Italian students vis­
ited the Carnegie campus last 
Tuesday. . Professor Parisi and 
Professor Kirkpatrick greeted the 
group as it arrived on the campus, 
and introduced them to Dr. Ihrlg 
who welcomed them to.Carnegie in
extended to thorn, the group pre­sented to the school, through Dr. Ihrlg, a large volum.e, beautifully illustrated and descriptive of the iverslties of Italy. An Invitation signed by the heads of the univer­sities in Italy to visit Rome in
medal of Mussolini.
The students are on a goodwill tour through the eastern part ot the country. This trip was planned .^committee who have arranged an exchange viBlt of American and Italian' students. The ' tour takes them through the leading
Technical Delegation'The delegation which came to Carnegie was a group of fifty stu­dents who were interested in a technical education. The remalnd- group, comprising about
Professor Parlsl and Professor Kirkpatrick conducted the group through the various buildings. As they were leaving, they witnessed the annual "Plcbe Parade.”On October. 12 the party will be In New York City to take part In the Columbus Day celebrations. Italian athletes will compete with
Carnegie Institute 
Chooses Trustee
elected to succeed the late Taylor AUderdice as trustee of the Car­negie Institute. This membership also carries with it membership on the Board of Trustees or Carnegie Institute of Technology.
Mr. Holland was graduated from
director in several business and cultural organizations. Ho has been especially active in the pro­motion of music In thiB community.
travels from place to place.Among the colleges which the group will have visited before re-
Technology, University of . Pitts­burgh, Notre Dame,--University of Chicago, Northwestern University, Rochester, Colgate, Cornell. Harv­ard, Yale. the United States Mill- .tary Academy, and Princeon Unl-
IiARGEST SELECTION OF PORTABLE AND STANDARD-SIZED
TYPEWRITERS 
$14.95 to $75.00L,^TENTCA,TYPEWR1TER B
FORT PITT 
TYPEWRITER CO.644 LIBERTY AVENUE
Organization Meeting 
Will Be Held Today 
In Faculty Room
W. Williams to Speak
Special Twenty-five Cent 
Lunchcon to be Served
Announcement was-made yester­
day that the Y. M. C. A. Cabinet 
will again sponsor a club for fresh­
man men known as the C-Y Club. 
The first meeting, for the purpose 
of organizing, will be held in the 
Faculty room of the Grill, at 12 
o’clock, Tuesday, October 0.
This will be the third year in 
the history of the organization. 
The club was organized especially 
for these men who were former 
member's of Hi-Y groups, in order 
to afford them an opportunity to 
continue their Interest in Y. M. C. 
A. work and to form a group from 
which the membership of the 
Freshman Y. M. C. A. Cabinet could 
be drawn. The membership, how- 
er, Is not restricted to HI-Y men, 
d the Cabinet extends an Invita­
tion to all freshman men who ftt- 
;end the organization meeting.
A special twenty-five cent lunch­
eon will be available for all those 
who attend. There will be a short 
program and- W. R. “Chief” Wil­
liams of the Downtown Y..M, C. A.willW.
of the organization of this year's
Choose your bank 
as you ’would, choose 
afriend 
*
MELLON NATIONAL 
BANK
Pittsburgh, Pa.
Students Are Invited 
To Church"Receptiait
•The First Baptist church, locat­
ed on tlie corner of BelleQeld ave­
nue and Bayard street, has extend­ed to all of. the students at Carne­gie, an invitation to attend tho annual studeut reception tor regis-
will he held in the church at o’clock Thursday evening.' Judge John P. Egan, national;: known football official, who ha: refereed some of the greatest in tercolteglate contests in rcccnt years, will be the principal spook
be ò uuique description of “the in­side of Inside football.”Dr. Bernard C. Clausen. pastor of the'Fiist Baptist Church, will pre­side. An interesting program, which will include presentations or the Pitt band, the Carnegie Tech Gleo Club, the. P. C. W. Players, and. a galaxy of individual "collegi­ate stars, has been arranged.
Kiltie Band Prepares 
For Busy Fall Season
The Kiltie Band, having inaug-
fleld Presbyterian Church and on October 31 at 11:30 will parade to­gether with the bands from Du-
event for the band aroum Christmas, but no dellnite arrange- ients have been made as yet.
produced' a temperature only i
Technon To Meet 
Thursday Evening
Dinner Will Be Served 
At Shadysidc Church
religious organization : Carnegie student 3 first meeting c Milng. Dinner will 1 church parlors of tl Slmdyslde Presbyterian-- Church ;
niter attending
topic upon which discussions will he based until Christmas is “The Sermon ou the Mount." This sub­ject was chosen because It Includes such n vast scope of discussion material.The oiTlcers of Teknon who will preside for the first time Tluirsdny are: John Richmond *31». president; Nelson Jones ‘36, vice prosidont; I Gwen Haddock *35. secretary; and I Mary Wynne ’35, treasurer. Any-1 one who is interested in joining; tills discussion group, after Bpealc-1 lus to one of the officers, will be ' invited to the meetings as o guest.
TRI-PUBw STAFF M|EETS
Trl publications today at 2:30 In Y” ofilee. All freshmen who are interested in the work of Tri- publications ore invited to. he pres­ent. Work will be started on the Student Directory which will be published the last week of October.
O.S. ÈDMAN
PRINTER 
6470,Monitor Street
WILL RYSHANEK'S ORCHESTRA
INFORMAL
WEDNESDAY • FRIDAY • SATURDAY
$1 per person including midnight breakfast
HOTEL
we advertise
We advertise in order that the public may better 
understood what the Bell System is doing, and-why it 
does it. In this way we keep customers and.prospective . 
customers informed of our aims» policies and progress.
We advertise in order to hid the telephone customer 
in making tho best possible U9e of hia service. As our 
advertising influences one person after another to use 
the telephone more effectively, the service rendered 
every other U6cr is correspondingly improved.
We - advertise because we have a varied service to 
eell and by selling more of it we increase its value to 
" each user. Because of the nature of the telephone 
business, it is our duty to inform the public contw* 
uously of the charactcr and varied kind of service we 
provide.
In line with this broad plan, we find real opportunity 
-in addressing messages to college and university peo­
ple in their own publications, just as we also vary our 
advertising for women’s magazines, farm papers and 
so on. 1934*35 is the fifteenth year during which-the 
Bell System has published advertisements which take r 
collcge men behind tho ecencs of Bell Telephone 
service.
¦ ¦- ; :Íiíow Refreshing /
•r m.\ . i ‘ jHSKBSw" S — " ¦ /•*.* t* 'j -J
“It’s toasted”
? >wiq-«* ftfrn.. „..ir.
So round, so firm, so fully packed— 
Luckies are made of only the clean cen­
ter leaves—these are the mildest leaves 
-they ca^i^re - they taste

---------------------------------------------------



---------------------------------------------------

r
T :
THE CARNEGIE TARTAN, TUESDAY, OCTOBER 2, 1934 -
THE
TUESDAY
THEUSDUAEYnn*1
e ®
BY JERRY HANSONwi/n\
Ing last, the iron sky-pie season’s football opener staff certainly picked the right kind of weather for the initial appeal ance of its eccentric head-gear, for the day reminded one of dear old*. London town.
! BUT WHETHER THE WEATHER is to be blamed for the showing the Carnegie grid machine made, or didn’t make, in the Jilt with the Cov­enters, rests in the hands of the censors. It is true the Geneva field T?as in miserable shape, and it took only a couple of minutes of play to find the members of each team well covered with mud. But both fwpnis were under the same handicap, so it is doubtful that Llie condi­tion of the field may be held responsible for the failure of the Skibos to show the -widely-touted edge they were expected to have over the team coached by Dyke Beede. Incidentally, Beede is a former Plaid star, like Harpster, and is al60 coaching a former Harpster team.
DESPITE CURRENT REPORTS that the goal-gaining play early in th< second quarter of the Carnegle-Geneva game was a premeditated trick, It was undoubtedly a fluke. • It appeared to be a well-executed play, since It was so nearly perfect and so very effective. . However, credit Is due only for the exercise of some very decent football h< was exhibited by the players directly responsible.' “Sputzy" Terebus, who played like a Trojan throughout the first half, was unable liver a pass safely to any elegible man, so he cut down the side As in a miracle, he emerged from'a mass of Geneva players Into the open field. And then the long run for the goal line. “Sputzy*' was clever In picking and getting through the hole, but it was due ¿0 the team’s one perfect exhibition of blocking that the path to the goal was made possible.' George Goodrldge was the man on the job, for he neatly blocked two on-coming Covenanters at the kernel of the excite­ment, thus providing the key for the miraculous exit. Mlhm. and Lewis were prominent In the defensive, Mihm’s long spirals taking the Sklbo aggregation out of a number of tight situations. The complaint which was voiced most by the members of the team themselves was that there was an extreme lack of co-operation among the clan players, which factor has been the means of ruining many an otherwise first rate ball club of the past.
brand of ball. The Geneva threat was wrapped entirely within this man, and he -was the'mairi spring of almost all of the opposition’s suc­cessful plays. Though injured twice during the game, he stuck the fight out valiantly to the last. Johnson played in the fullback position. Rather interesting testimony to the merit of the Geneva corpp is the fact that Beede did not order a single'substitution throughout the en­tire game. This situation was contrary'to the usual Beede program of heretofore, and in the gan_______ . ___y. the Covenanter freahnvarsity contests.
WHAT REALLY CHEERED OUR SPIRITS and made the day a cc ful success was the appearance of the Kiltie Band. Bill Sharp is ae swinging the shiny club, and the All America drummeri “Gunr Ackley, waves his streamered sticks around and capers with a 1 zest. About all the Kilties need to become a perfect band Is sc coaching and drilling on marching in line. The Geneva band youngsters mad» a nice though repressed showing. Its dignity 1; perfoi ) balloons with C, I larrylng the G promptlyd Talves when the lei rfused to rise through the rain w ;eeuted their duty. The situation-eleasing of the balloi
the small schools of Ohio have a name for being- e«irappy. There is 1 doubt that Miami will be peppered to give us the comply (Dickens) and the Tartan followers may as well expect It.
type towards the bottom of the 1 on the Geneva game. The e brought to my attention forcefully, by means of a brick aroui the paper bearing It was tied, thrown' through my study wir my deBk, where It was found later. Luckily I n
1 planned for by my unknown • ve of self preservation.
collision, forcing his removal from the track and leaving his blonde partner to carry on alone for a half hour. Walthour and LePage, young and good-looking winners of the race, forged into the lead in a final spurt which brought their mileage to 2.406.2, the two-tenths being all that kept the nearest hard-pressing opponents,' Killian .and Vopel, from
A LETTER FROM CARL Forsman contained the following wish for the football team: “Say, 'hello* to'all the lads. Tell them that ‘Fuzz’ good, and that he hopes to H— the team ¡a.” Tom i track and grid man of '32 and ’S3, who is now of the Chicago Bfack Hawks, Is Ws/t/ng Pfttsburflh while he ¿wafts the_star£- Ing of professional Ice hockey practice. “Choo-Choo" Armentrout and Mafv Potts, footballers of the past few years, have, been seen watching the Varsity frequently.
THE POINTED CARTOON which, is seen on this page represents an Idea, if made weekly, which has been bothering ye scribe for some, time. Si Folser and A1 Jenkins are to blamfr—not for the bother, mind 1, but for the actual cartoon and lampoon combination. Here is the
r public voice Its general opinion.
Freshman Team Larger and Heavier 
Than Past Teams; Plays Kiski Soon
Freshman football coach Jerry 
O'Toole, a sterline instructor, 
Rounder notwithstanding,...claims 
that this la truly a banner yoar as 
far as plebe gridders are concern- 
ed. To date these lads have been 
merely cannon fodder for the var­
sity practices but in .these sessions 
they surprised the spectators ' by holding the first stringers with ap­preciable strength. ..Tie. plebea are S forced to play longer In practices 1 and have proven their strength by 1 lasting well against the replace- I ments .that ave constantly being I Put in against them..
Bigger Plebes 
According to reports and the I J^ght charts, the freshmen are ¦bigger on the average than those 1®* .previous years. According to JUie coaches they are better named d more natural, football players the -whole than thè -preceding ¦Quads. Weighing fn .beforè sen*, n showed that average weight-Is out 180 with two ot the lads [ound 200. Of course some of iBeboye might have-gained or since this time eo the averago accuratelyir.-r- w»vu v/Toole adds t. they, should have littls-trouble Bh eligibility as all of the-boys “..into school without exams. , 
And Numerous J candidates iout<W the-wf-t^^?iHW&^^®^merotoB.vv:The
of whom weigh about ISO; Suthei land and Slaminko at tackle, both of whom are very good: KouchaU and Keller at guards and Mlsko- witz at center, in the backfleld there are several big lads and some very nice:looklng ball toters.. In­cluded among the backs are Martel- on, Fryer, Eoaenthau, Conolly, Kopsak, Grad, Yeknik, - Lorenz andJJapQtnik............................
Game With Kiskl 
As yet no schedule has been ar­ranged permanently. However, ;
and should be very formidable op‘ ponents for the first game. There are also . .other games pending though the dates are not yet set. These games are seldom scheduled till late as they are not regular games but are just scheduled to give the' pieces some'practice and competition to prepare them for varsity competition. Among the. possible teams that the plebes may meet are the Pitt Plebes, al­ways a tough.outfit, and the fresh­man squads from Duquesne, Wash­ington and J’efferson, and West Virginia.
All men Interested In trylno out for the cross-co untry..team :«houltf.M^pott-i»t!?the|Trophyi;roorn ,Wednesday, Octobc r J it 4 30
Tartans Win Initial 
Combat of Schedule 
Against Covenanters
Strong Geneva Outfit 
Holds Harpsterites 
To 7-0 Score
Terebus’ 67-Yard 
Run Saves Game
Beede-Coached Team Stages 
Second Half Drive to 
Threaten Scots
Carnegie opened Its football 
season formally last Saturday aft­
ernoon 00 the Geneva College field 
at Beaver Falls. The Tartan squad 
made the trip up in two very mod-, 
fern, new and comfortably equipped 
buses, leaving the school at ouo 
o’clock and arriving in Beavor 
Falls at 2:30. The. Kiltie Band preceded the team earlier In the day and gave the town the usual spectacular parade.
What had the appearance of an all-day rain \yas in existence until fifteen minutes before game time, at which time it slowed down to a drizzle and finally stopped for most or' the game. The field was very muddy, and may be blamed for tho rather drab showing which the Carnegie team made against an aggregation which should not, ac­cording to general previous re­ports, have given it much oppuei- tlon.First Quarter Is Slow
The entire first quarter of tho
the diminutive 6tar, Steve Tere­bus. Terebus hit the line repeat­edly for small gains, and the Tar­tans did keep most of the activity
No large gains •and the activity became :
and Geneva respectively. Eacli player maintained a pretty good average, and the ball wont back and forth persistently. The field too mucky to permit of much
back to deliver a pass. The coming opponents were about top of “Sputzy"—in fact it looked r if he would bo brought
gazelle. Good- rtage managed some rather effec­tive blocking to allow the runners to. pass through the Covenanter line, and other members of the Scot squad fell In to provide inter­ference for the 'rest of the trip down the field. Joe 'Mlhm a£ded
other remarkable exhibi­tions on the part of the visiting team. The nearest the Skibos came to the goal after that was tlio 22-yard strip. Without a substitu­tion the Covenanters battled , with fire and enthusiasm. Several times, after successful drives down to the Tartan 30s, the Geneva machine had the Tartans on the run, but the spell was always broken by in­tercepted passes. The second half
t help much. Coach Beede of tha Covenanters should be proud of* the game fight made by his pro­teges, for, had not Terebus madp
Womeji*s Athletics
-----by------
MARGIE GREEN
Miami Fray 
Will Be Test 
For Carnegie
Miami Co-Champs Last 
Year With Cincinnati 
Of Ohio Area
Miami University, a newcomer 
on the Carnegie schedule, remains 
somewhat of an unknown quantity. 
Miami Is the same size as Carnegio and has turned out some powerful teams in tho past. Last year they were co-champs with -Cincinnati
-til of their veteran backs, so that the Tartans will be on even terms as far as ex­perience is concerned.While the Tartans were content with a seven-point win over Geneva, Miami was defeating a similar team from East Kentucky Teachers' College to the tune , of.The weather condi- iave mads the dlffer- the scores, or it may be
19tions may
looking forward to the honored presence, of Coach Howard Harpster. He' has agreed want to it’s take this rashi-ptateraent and really learn' something' about... the fine poirits of the game. To be'per­fectly .frank, this •
at the Duquesne game the other night. They did their share of pa­triotic rooting. Til admit, but only at the various intervals when the cheerleaders provided them with Inspiration. In the meantime they put Iheir heads together and dis­cussed their practice teaching problems, of all the subjects! Even at one time when the ball was two yards from the opponent's goal they sat there all agog^wltli ftieir practice teaching. The-point of all this is; know your football so that 1^ can contribute some real- spiritto the gai Monday night.I’ll be seeing :
Scotland Yard is stragetically Io-. -cated for everything but wireless transmission due to the city’s in­terference.—Denver Clarion,
laid to the -breaks. ‘ of the game. Whatever.the cau&o, Miami made a somewhat more impresBlve show* Ing in thelr opening game against relative similar opponents.Carnegie Has Advantage'Even so, -Carnegie enters the game with an advantage. Miami has never played big-league ball or travelled in as fa9t company as has Carnegie.' The Tartans have an edge in that way, and with a .show of a steady game should cany the day.Carnegie’s passing attack did not have much of a chance to function In -the opener, so that a dry field may show on entirely. different team. Better conditions v/Ul also enable Carnogle to shake loose
country team rests a tie from, last year, if Carnegie Is expecting a ve6t this week from
Saturday's promises to be different from tho usual; a fairly close game is to be expected.
CALL FOR SOCCER PLAYERS
' All those who have played soc­cer and aTe interested in the for- matlon of a tenrn are requested to report to the trophy room in the Gymnasium Wednesday afternoon at 4 30
Thru the Window J
but 1 am not that way 1 can see art In the most ; - common things for instance the other day1 was listening to the football game over the radio It Inspired <mc to verae as follows . .
my soul cries for expression 1 must write that littleterebus fellow Is to mo a giant all those big men on the field, and he was the only one who could make a score
Taper*Head Sanford, who la us­
ing his physical attributes to 
wedge. himself Into a regular end 
position
my my 1 guess It takes a little fellow to show them after all napoleon was small writing vers libra. Is In Its way a(Editor’s Note: This copy was 
found on my desk the other ntorn*
handicap because so man} people do not appreciate poetry why le that 1
nevé. Its marked resemblance tobut then J always think
some time ago as written by Archy the Cockro.ach leads me to believe that there Is a connection some­where. If this was written by Os­car the Hermit, whose signature
toujour gale is the word ' . boys I have my fun and you have yours period
several times 1 thought
that famous Insect right here on the Teeh campus.) some people can’t see art In anything that Is not outwardly beautiful
touchdown ah me 1 guess 1 expect too much maybe It Is better that the team did havo a hard time’to
I've often' wondered where' radio/announcers' come from this one ' had difficulty no end but ajialn maybe. I expeot too much It may bequl^e all right .
he la lueky to have any mush at tfclo'tlme
my travels I mlami play their school la the 6sme size as tech and they can flQhfc I will keep you postedremember the good word boys comma toujour gale toujour gale
Rifle Squad Will 
Meet on Saturday
The* men’s varsity rifle team will meet for time prac­tice Saturday, October 6. at 8:30 a. m., on the range.
r AFTER A11 ©ONE DRY“ LECTURE THERE SURE 15 NOTHING 
.LIKE A PIPEFUL OFAFTER EVERY. CLASS 
IT RINGS THE BELL!
PRINCB ALBERT is made of the finest top-quality tobac­
cos. And before it is packcd lo the big red tin a special proc­
ess removes every hint of "bite.” No wonder Prince Albert 
is so mild and mellowt Just give Prince Albert a chance to 
please you...and find out how good a pipe can really tastel
VOL29N rCnNOA
— THE NATIONAL JOY SMOKEI
G*-'
OF
"The Daring Young Man on the FlyingTrapeze"
WALTER O’KEEFE —IN PERSON—the man who made 
this and other songs famous, brings his inimitable wit and 
humor to the Camel Caravan as Master of Ccrcmooie9. 
And.he promises, among other things, to introduce at least 
one new song each week. Tune in on the Caravan and 
see why he is one of the air’s most popular entertainers.
Freshman playday,- which took place Saturday afternoon, Sep­tember 22, provided an excellent
year's program. - The - play- periods were naturally too few and brief to forecast the various freshman teams from the 150 participants, but the energy and enthusiasm' dis­played by-the group as a'whole encouraging to every
follow in the footsteps of her big
that everyone likes- to have around.Louise' Fucc is another -promising young athlete. She appeared to be right at home on the basketball court, and has good reason to feel’ that'way. Jean Mcfir isn’t" very big, but I'm willing to bet that her five feet of vitality will also be of
for theMarch) Keep, your eye on her, Dorothy! -But.please, dear plebes,
tices are nothing inore ' than .wild skirmishes over the. field, and'that archery involves a-’bull’s -eye that
-Rules Ar« VagueAre you-,all-.coming to• the .W. .
YOU ARE INVITED!
TO TUNE IN ON THE NEW
ALL-STAR CAMEL CARAVAN
CASA LOMA ORCHESTRA 
ANNETTE HANSHAW 
WALTER O’KEEFE
AND OTHER HEADLINERS
AMNCm HANSHAW— whoiL thrilling t brut 
voici -mu turklin^ pLnunalit) hj «. 1 1 r tiled 
radio andienees.in the past, will be featured oo the 
new-Caf&vaa in-thc popular hit coscs-of today and 
yesterday, it’s' better than even money she will 
soon be your A number 1 favorite radio songstress.
GLEN GRAY—whose CasaLomaOrchesi 
for its clever- arrangement and smooth rhythms, 
has played for over ;200 important college dances. 
Made radio bistory-ea the Camel Caravan last year.
. Due to repeat 'diis year! Always a favorite band in 
almost every college ’
TUESDAY
10:00 P. M. Eut«m Tim« 
9:00 P. M* . Central Tim* 
8:00 P. M. Mountain Um« 
7:00 P. M- Pacific Tim«
TUNE IN!
TUESDAY, OCTOBER 2, and every following Tuesday and 
Tlmrcday evening over coast-to-coast WABC-Coluinbia network

---------------------------------------------------

THE CARNEGIE TARTAN. TUESDAY. OCTOBER 2, 193*
THE
CARNEGIE
PLAID
*xor ir 3öaü s
Idle Thoughts 
of an 
Idle Night 
Student
Students Receive ¡Recent Changes
N.S.C. Awards] Not Expected to j Coming Elections 
Affect Council
l^ewRuIes Govern J Position of Plaid 
Editor Is Vacant \
I 1èreAs is gsto' J-T the ííígü Scs- !| ÍU16CI ttUUUCll} 7>-??aI-e5 gorenäg Üe •sSksí'Ss'Sossa i=E27 iHzrftj __________ ipj rtSoss RuA îis 3^1 ssiärfl
sires stfcs32iShips ci tbfeïy dsfcussJ , " ,„ . . _   ^'a_í.9 £ ¿eaerâç stei~=l Sa ï 1=1 'or*ir 50 »*««5 of q ¡=are rsosa’-'j¿ îâree esS&ess. ïbe Wart liasses ia sis si* GaS*gç .j EGN32 ¿«saSs ci lisse ,0=s«ä aæ j Siace
í fc*iaç preststèd al îbe asssaS ia-joí Ss-íasuies -btjJ operaie es ajîscŒiç ai £be pressai îfcss, but 5t;is as faparâ 
!aia»B SSiskt. -Tais . yw,. tï® jt^s^sa.*-:: part cf 1=2 Gs3*se c£¿ís -=s¿essto^¡ tbsî ib?*- art rá®-*'*.?2*ec*=e * »¿Säea ^«ere w tìar c? ^ fe __
|—i^-pT-r-r^.fcr^ { »he SSS&XZS iÆsfTÇC ìy tae 2Ç1T ES- ^ SCD5 Cl £3% ÇX3ÔÎS Cbal 2iT2 ¿ÎS-•; -5-^9 We V»«5 cira^^ie ci tie OíSíse cj|.^p&ariaç SdixJ lets Ë>æa CTriô»5 j •pzrjzd
B*rri>e7t St'jze. *20
^ork and Play
•tawas ¦¦ili he hehs saseb m de-
i---------.--------------eaicàr: sèx<5 P®*—u   ---------------------------------------» =aad. Tse »ork ccaoiciai with
ifcss, Srct 5t; is as fapartezi SsssitiEt»a axfcd J *—Si* «sS- iria be calìid apea i pr^sriss »«r aay cne ©f thè 
as&esstozrj ¿?r ars f—¿£l-5- ’ 2*ec*=e a *rtd::Ssa a^ea aie risii ^ si* eatir? spae® xitìrot aay j Ct*=se3 iardJ^as masi be perforo- '¦ (aspa ao «óiKBr i-cr frcsr« ìskuìs * 07 eeatisaaiisas- £ron aie *ÌaT ) eò b? rolaateeis ùtns ite sisd^nt=T£r. atc he &zii SI3ÌS3I j ^£^£- -^5 lie S2Ì 3s jzzùii«3 iz: iosr. Tfce ssdsais »bo J^ad iheir ¦s'io iss iad iri SosmaJ. i J^=^3‘. 21 &ssi, sie. task of SHiss ; ssppon.' io these aciiiitii^ are ca*____ ? Ja j ¿sa ls Tenjaesisii :o = ifs 27-, aBsted «lysos is a>=;c«; i^pce- i t»c*tirag~d ia tieir «iTons by ihe
* &epss.^e ¿jv.>s: A.-I>= S li iàis £s s&. ìbsiH irb.o &Kesd iie ; p&asiCE «isaSiScaci?^« io zie ¦! ¦aiii-sai. ise essirt^Oi ssà ì przsz~i2.non oi tie T^tg-nig A-s^rd
; srs* Cars«. S. T«siccs3 = ISTUIuFwHAFY -srSli b? AaPA rjal^zà fori ^s3:2 Scabri C«a=ei2, Bar 2J5. Gir- i ®oo?5=tioa ei ii= sisdisi boij. i ci lie Mii: ‘Stsfeat Ccraaca fot
---------3 site 5aa ia stodesi ztOn&s i35Co™*. C- Cffi«ssS Csisks. ias bssa obrWsW tìs«^ “T" 2=5^=^ ci ijetaitìcsar. Ì '“¿^ sJSrtjo i =«j»?3os »«rt ^a?c=e -sh© bI^.T? ®f* s==sr- 0=« cscrfrr:!^ -^5, £3 as oz-risz bs«-ÌA dSrsEàv- ^-n ^ -wi,_____7' " -tó? sa«f«si as»os ce= ^¿Jb*31 ei “lèT%53- Cc=-i-L^izs to -»Ori si lie CcaccOir2z5iaeB ^,-h-asci a eeia&i tìiSap;1, «a-^sa 7-.1, x,_ a_____• , Wjpsa* ^as&a ca or; p^jg s^as ils s^aìiSsaiicos -sniì i*e !i -»Si *» «^¿itsd m» tie i fatcticns is reQsssted to&?rd tielr:• cs^t=«5 a p« -s ^3^ ^¡¡yg js;, gJ ^ ^ iiadì^ w a ^èsree or a.;7.£3saza5 lase^reisDcr; ci 3xed 5 iairìT «s>=èierad a=d ih2i a ia5r i £5,ro?f''•}^ ^ coauiissor wncairis ì szse ari adSress to thè Xigit
brss> a&2 tifc—a««sts> zsaies} E-er-^-inW a-<i --0 ^ 5^-eaaePn^, a=i ^«'ìztìis. ì2tj» =?€?¥- ¡3 *zx-\ '=r5ai 2>e gsTes so ct«tt zp^I> j St=d?ai Coarcil Awaià. 1 SRdeat Ccaccii, Box 135, Carató»;®, ¦*rai=l ie:‘l s;'J®=?w. H.-2P a 1 i S^CTMJCs ggla3ag a-, ci lie tms-i * ’ 'r '~ * j caat. As siis 5= aa «gsa^esry»:j :ead sJifcaaae«- so aa ap-1 al Tecbaologr, Schealer
lia.: I Kjaa alchtr dzd Soaef: ^ 7CZ%2 —ifÌT-_ -Itì5=*3 ®T ctstms ¿«21=2=5 to.; -------- -*-* * 3o*» •>- la-r steC-ea? Cai i2»s »*• ?‘W=ts«=s ca tie stai ¦ Pari. PiMbartìi. Pa.
w zartaa «5*Sa. . nc^^: a ^ : ÌBTS W^=,Ì*re'|io Ihe poi ------------------------------— — ~ _____¦-.
'B5a*t 4afcs* 3vray- »^*'i 7s* 3&?¿S-5rSt-- “ ‘ ' iv“S=*---^ ^ ^ *i sîod t —CH A—C RLEC S
r.t first SCÍBSSIW —.ufe, « ^.ijisEils t sAiximt hasn't „; ^aa va tt'-xr.t-r: a s.':b«3aj3öo :
csíTíptí'jed ts resà my ¿5-pá shetrí ¦ v-sÿjA àirizç ’¿e 7"í2--^jçceïTisal. Usvr tfon’t get iisÄst tíná ci a sseal. ;! eaBeand ¦
s___ >1 iza CÜV.íe?>£s app^ær ia ai/^sdaaoe. TîïaîJ Si^zr^e 73^ tao*’ _ caiss £or yrcgriss aad ptç«s :; ¦&!> s^e^ai îiat 1s i3îerr^st«»i a j é5rà»d
jîe. les^Jast fefcres
fa «yos oí sibiscis oüea
1to/i' jo s=2S»s=t àÎ5SOTre5fi=«îl
to «as8 *¦ €»a*»î«te cí faier- 
ts. ií-?“- eaSfc® i-:'4Jía oí eelí 
fccywTeEeaî. This coadíi&Fa 
«isaSa esjSy a7<?í£^ ía saasr1 íí
2t ÍS trae
¿a- adules oi 
r^SügfíA serísal jsaas 
» csajía» Tras araSaSÍa.
táai li? 2TÍT-
• ÿ«i=>»e-- 5 bg prap^r
pr _
^ «¦< Trinca oa3r i! (®t«raz2$? íi» sia¿%a¿ î aatf T®s=2aS30=s. Süsfiea" scasaS groups. 1 ^rs to ftiaciíie 
i. «be corres aa¿
.DSN.E M
That fey «ae time this i* read She 1 eel of tbs iirrt three ¿ay rsgw- trailoo period will fee fc»s¥p?7. it's g99i thing that this regislrxlisn period ia «ndiisSed under tevii» ihat is. the fong waiting Jine u under eever. The gym certainly i* an itfsaJ p’at? for psrienrning thtt rs^uiremsnt. I hate to thlnK what the «RseqiMness rnu^d be if the
Trishas aad pnbUsnç-d sa? ia!¿5a2 Kisht StBdçai îiî73çÎLts. Ofcoa^e they
conras^S sa) & ickMa So irbatî
r*Ttâ*;le» It is i
s'üésd.îa a* lias ti«.?ç a
i=b.es 3 TcoiiîraaS —CHARL Tis dç^r-^ j SîaadbooS. ES.D isaii" ~is¿-^-ai5cá J ¡ ’«Tnrsís ioaìd îBÿT^sçai sbe oSd-íasd^ífi pr5rai ssj dLjerotos-jl>J<3 '¦; sad
îefsr sajen’ ? Sagsaçsrfcs ÆJP-iP s’’nA Tc<ca- .j aitsaç taâs^l îizT|e<ca3 cïqjss ttît^ïd rspiessa* tisj^riç. pciaîs tówarSs a srchoîarBîrfp | ^ ÎBissrfe çj’-rap. «as- âsts=c Tbese are, anscî«« | Scáooí btidiag iîs 7a--5Ty3as pcs5- ;¡ sto.... . Casjssgïç î^aSfi. strES^g îiclsîs fer aîgSi k±.oo1 tszcîiGB*.: wrifaç for aod at K!sbt Sttdsst, Cinmcil frmeü>jn£- aa4 totIbbs ior ard ai lie foacíí¿ss oí lie räspto ÜT€ eoEe-g^E-CKlsís!«3t -ITOTÏ ca Ü? F^aañ s ibe OTÛT 2QS£l5
CRAIG AJiD FOH3ES STS.
isyr—iPir*' Haags KozfiST
»-fl M&y Breeîass. 
Soôl DEacia.ç TiiîTScay and Sasarâa~ Srealaçs. 
Prîra?-? LÇ!?k»b= Bj Appoot=«iat- 
MAyftawer 7231
To the Class of ’38...
and to all onr npperclass friends . . .
We extend onr
WELCOME 
Betsy Ross Tea Room
Corner Forbes Street and Oakland Avenue 
•'With the New Stone Front”
ran J>o fATTSSÌ ‘B^laCOl aa7 oli«- aÄÜrWe*. The eîier tares púats regoire ’«otS sot oa3r ia
America's capital iaTestìneuì hlgáwr «daea¡iií3a Ss grsasçr tian capital Í nr estro eat la lie
’34’-35Handbook 
Shows Excellent 
Work by Tracht]
laeat ia She tszlüe iadnsiry. o:ton and st&sl icdesnry.—DaSlr
^.jinr'oT viS j^gsrd sas5^®" 
ondaon y N .1th-*NN aoJyaJo —CHAC 
sgrfOTrfr s2i2s si® ùa-aïSihSJùyJC 
oSn—n e* J iacals? SnnJJoaCw .dC
»¦Mi rfczj.yn, ji -s'osSd ì» "asli ÌW 
MlC'*N®Tr.,y NAa®A®^YoN
YJSa enor eSost od nSPW oSaNC Jyl
/ Tlce sasd sass^Uoss aD7 P®r'1 
eoas c? theiT acqo2iaia^£* 
ooasiderfsg «sistertog ior a aigit 
MoA®oAoA TB ‘SS.N^j-ùwùùK oa®JnS^ "ao^a^J 1 
gfiMwmt: of pls? i2sai tata 
iected lato tie work attesdaat 
w^So¦SSyJY/Ej1• SJ oF© JS^Fo ——no,On 
J3 dpìi£ale. mui- il poasible, sicrald 
b» so anaitg«d that il tSI ^ possi-
bis fcr tie atndeat io iadp2se in_________________ _____ _
jTTEdrr oitfi oi plsasare flariog his i dis^jibQt^d ibis j%ar ia thè .N.M ! Al^,
“Beiiaré itTTff o"JnE U‘5rS Snny od - ¦ I ^ TjGCE J&isejih .SJouo dS Cho ‘dEw 
liere thè BtraSn oflils. stadies an^ » 5^e of Fine Aris. Tbere i3 aoj eastem 
atioaily incrisaìe bi3 eSlrfency | ihat tiii cesp3iEg oi ibis |
tiÉTela. .. f 7«*r‘6 boo's. ¦sras a coasideTaWe 1
j task c.m—' to lie l2£t tbai ite ea- j THAT between all
Didja Notice
THAT
THAT
you'll 1
the ea-j 
b&«m ^ised J that beset 1
is decidedly
tst fronts. THAT by the time ya »
Student Activities lu» «mirau
For some oixaJt TCasoa, it Tould Isn/i rearranged- 5£r. Tra«ht was 
S^° i*?4,““* ^rfa>is on Shi ílí¡a 01 tie DlBit section olihefx indviseoat in caaipaB acim-S .liés are the aaost ioportact rsa^tm 1 Tb1«43« ior she last year aod
lor tbtor aftasdaac-e at nSgai TThiîe it ¦
m.
: adsütteS tbat 
stndeuz adiTitSes play an ail ini- portaat part ia aoy attempt tatafng ao ¦ways tbe d acifeities : - -OTZT stcdtes ia the mini of• stndent, Tbis conàizioa shcrald be avoidea. for tu* gooà èliitr to thô lodindcal or 10 the suident groups• for »bich he U working cao têsoîî.Xhe tweeds to be d&rired irom a well ba!aac«i Ecb^dole lhat p^T' jaits of Indulgence la student zc- tlvjUfcs -arithont copflUt witb écho- iacHi> çcbednles are maaltold. Bat,
should be «evidence of his desire to learn, aad cot a mark of bis vgaruing to collect keys, pixis or -mber marks oi recosDitioa from .ztodect groups.
The «-zaci difference between ¦ cmuiniCilT« aad deetradiTe crit- IrHara can never he defined. This is due larzely to tbe £act that body of individuals "regard comment laade apoa any project as constmctiTe If It implies • change. 'Wälle It is sdoiUied that
be~rezDeatbered that ecch changes should represent either &a advaace r in accomplishment or vardH some goal, and
simple fartberance of the plans of aay group.
------- Living -Costs ........
The average olgct student "who . Is very rnaco concerned with mak- las both ends s&et oft . just \rby it Is that pric , commodities aod foodstuffs rise al­most Invariahly at the same time that his working hours are shortened and his income reduced. \\c often wonder onreelres, but a stance into the history of past "de­gressions” wUI probably answer this qnesilon. Reduced dlstribn- v tion. lessened sales, and poor turn- .-. over natnraily tempt tbe average . producer to raise prices erea with' v;'out government aid• Tbe desire u> further personal ¦¦ Interest will always transcend any .vague longing to promote pnbllc welfare, and all that can be done about the situation by the average iodiriaoal Is to bay a stock oi j; , green whisker» in boom times,- that he may disguise bimself from tbe sheriff in lean times.
fic.e effort that be pat forth la 
. capacity has smnrn agaia 
5a his -B-ork ea tbe bandbsoiL This 
lid ix* be the finest piece of 
of this kind that ba3 beec tarned out thas ins, aad it is bop&S ibat the 7rork of Mr. Tra ‘
tiens oi tbe ]
¡TÎU ire -&4Í-
ciaiad’’ by tbe sfsdents. Gold being1 ngai fhtg year wfll complete th< s«ri«s of colors, red, bloe, green s?ni\ gold rh^>t are coIotb of tbe Carnegie Plaid. The-idea of lag these' four colors
DINE and DANCE 
KAHN’S OULL
Home Cooked Food 
Moderate Pnces,
- NO COVER CHARGE
|L0) ai'tkjEiigravuui €ompai\yJ
gVu!w.c2hN h.‘gM2fN 
‘cucs vsc‘hNN vuV.hNE 
vgc.cfsVvgbI 
‘ycsE2hDN sni ‘ckkhs‘rV6
“ wwwwwwwwwjVs.lwwwwwww
!cAt Vuu Muu« N.sV.Mìh 
v«svcNhN
appei
iboring (?)hethe gentleSnY?o oFa nYJK 1
•sady started theiyearly dirtractis
the depression and a four-year- old slicker. Why not a epllee- tion for easts for ttidigent col-
UfTHAT the staff looked like the breaking up a hard winter after editing almost a full page 
last week.THAT the battle lines for the coming elections are forming. Heaven help the women and children.THAT I'll have a new editor to worry about soon, just after
• STUDENTS WASTEDFive hundred Typewriter«, jll makes. Portables and Standards, sold, rented, re­paired. $3JM one month, $10.00 five months.
American Writing
Machine CompanySOI LIBERTY AVENUE PITTSBURGH ATIantie 5423 See onr School representative DrCK HAMMOND
Peoples- 
Pittsburgh 
Trust Co.
Oakland Branch
Forbes and Meyran
¦THE OAKLAND 
BABE”
IN THE 
CENTER OF 
COLLEGE- 
ACTIVITY
MEMBER FEDERAL 
RESERVE SYSTEM
....
Chesterfields are milder 
^ ^;t'ÿiQîesteifieWs:::;taste:%eii£r:
Hipe home-grown tobaccos
Wl b ¿m with the right 
Vmdi of mild ripe Domesac 
tob 'tcos Then we age and 
mullos diem like rare -vnnes 
tor d-ivnr and taste.
Aromatic Turkish^ t “-cos
Next -we add just the right 
kinds and the ru;ht a/miunti 
of Turkish tobjci.os to give 
Clicstcrhcld tliL iLTsonmi; 
thit helps to make thun taste 
bLtter
wrnm-
Blended and cross -blended
Finally we "weld’-’ these 
lobiccos together the Chest­
erfield way—different from 
any other—to make Chester- 
held a milder better-tasting 
cignrette.
If ln\u*s good things lo 
make gottd things ... there is no 
substitute for mi hi ripe iobtu nt
