Volume 83, Issue 8
Inside
News
•The Engineering' and 
Science Library is still hav­
ing problems with water 
leaks.
See page 3.
•Dow -Jones Briefs: The 
chairman of the House Ways 
and Means Committee rips 
Bush and Dukakis, and Gov­
ernor Casey vetoes a gam­
bling bill.
See page 2.
Focus
•Who’s better — Bush or 
Dukakis? Read Focus to find 
out as election ’88 comes 
down to the wire. This week: 
Crime, Noriega, and the 
death penalty. Also, an inci­
dent on shuttle prompts 
harsh words from a rider.
See pages 6-8.
Diversions
•U2 Rattle ancl Hum is a 
new concert movie starring 
the world’s most popular 
rock band. -
See page 9.
•Joe Bob Briggs goes to 
camp — Cheerleader Camp.
Seepage 12.
Features
•A party to celebrate a 
unique food group was held 
Saturday night.
See page LI.
Sou th Afri ca n j o urn al ist 
Donald Woods speaks on 
campus.
See page L3.
Tartan alumnus Jeff 
Zaslow returns to his first 
newspaper.
See page L3.
Sports
THE TARTAN
Carnegie Mellon University. Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania1 November .1988
•Cross Country teams 
both win PAC champion­
ships while hostingthe meet 
at Flagstaff Hill.
See page L10.
Football Tartans play 
Grove City to a 21-21 tie in 
the final home game.
See pageLlO.
Index
[Classifieds..................L14
Comics.......................L6
Crossword Puzzle.....L9
Diversions....................9
Features......................LI
Focus.............................6
Sports.......................L10
University Calendar. L14 
W Populi...............L14
Conference increases awareness
By JUDY HARABURDA
Tartan Magazine Editor
The Human Relations Confer­
ence this weekend addressed is­
sues of cultural diversity, insen­
sitivity, and minority group prob­
lems. The general goal of the 
conference was to become more 
aware of di fferent minority groups 
and to examine attitudes in order 
to increase communication and 
positive behavior.
The Human Relations Commit­
tee, a group of students, faculty 
and staff moderated by Dean of 
Student Affairs Lois Cox, worked 
for one year to plan the confer­
ence as a means to discuss prob­
lems of insensitivity and igno-
rance to minority issues and to 
offer solutions.
Co-chairs of the Human Rela­
tions Committee, SPIRIT Presi­
dent Nicole Austin and Student 
Government President Andrew 
Robitshek, opened the conference, 
explaining that “understanding 
people who are different” will 
lead to a more sensitive, under­
standing campus.
Counselors from the University 
of Florida, Dr. James Archer and 
Dr. Max Parker, acted as facilita­
tors, helping students, faculty and 
staff work through the participa­
tion-oriented workshop.
Parker used the theme “People 
know so little of people,” an up­
dated version of a quote from
W.E.B. Dubois, to emphasize the 
need to know ourselves and others 
better in order to become person­
ally involved in bringing about 
change. He used statistics to under­
score the lack of knowledge about 
minority issues that prevents 
change — by the year 2000, 30*7r of 
Americans will hold ethnic minor­
ity status and by 2040, whites will 
become the minority.
The group, which1 consisted of 
about 50 students, faculty and staff, 
including Vice-President William 
Elliott, Provost Angel Jordan, and 
H&SS Dean Stephen Fienberg, was 
then randomly divided into six 
groups, each with a team of student 
or staff facilitators. Each group
continued on page3
Team Spirit!
photo by Danny Giurca
The Carnegie Mellon Volleyball team huddles before their first match on Friday, of the 1988 University Athletic Association 
Championships, held on their home court at Skibo Gym. See page Lll for story.
Faculty Senate considers school of CS
By NATALIE CAPONE
Tartan Staffwriter
A proposal to make the computer science 
department a separate school is currently 
being considered by a Faculty Senate ad 
hoc committee.
The department has been free-floating 
since it split from Mellon College of Sci­
ence in October, 1985 when it was judged 
to be too large-for its college and dominat­
ing the other departments in funding.
According to Angel Jordan, Provost, the 
creation of the School of Computer Science 
(SCS) “would be a recognition of the fact 
that — for all practical purposes — it 
already is a school. This move will allow it 
to grow and prosper.”
“Basically, it is a graduate school with 
its own subdisciplines. The department 
has 200 graduate students and the change," 
Jordan asserts., "would have little effect on 
them.” Undergraduates interested in 
computer-science would major in applied 
math, which is part of the math depart-
ment, with a computer science option. They 
will be taught by a joint curriculum be­
tween MCS and the School of Computer 
Science should the proposal be approved.
The Robotics Institute, which is inter­
disciplinary between colleges, and the In­
formation Technology Center ( ITC ) would 
“fall under the umbrella of the School of 
Computer Science,” said Jordan. "The 
moves would help both by providing the 
synergy of belonging to a school.”
For the past two years the computer sci­
ence department, headed by Nico Haber- 
mann. has been reporting to Provost Jor­
dan.
After the formation of the school, Haber- 
rriann as dean would continue reporting to 
Jordan as the other deans do, and oversee 
three associate deans and five directors.
When asked about the danger of setting 
a precedent of separating expanded de­
partments from their colleges, Jordan 
responded that most departments are “not 
likely to expand tremendously in the fu­
ture like computer science. It was not
Students attending the Human Relations Conference carry out a role 
playing game showing the dangers of stereotyping.
Information 
network 
unveiled
By CARLOS FRANCO
Tartan News Editor
The campus-wide information, network 
was unveiled yesterday in Hunt Library.
According to Operations Director of Uni­
versity Relations Timothy Basinski, the 
terminal placed in Hunt Library will be a 
beta test unit. This machine will be used to 
test out the network and find any bugs it 
may contain.
After a test period, the network will be 
modified and updated. Once deemed oper­
able the machine will be released campus- 
wide to areas of high visibility.
Each terminal is made from a Macintosh 
SE, a touch screen, and a hard disk dri^e. 
The terminals will be placed in some type of 
case to insure their security.
The “kiosk,” as developers have named 
the network, features a campus events 
calendar, a campus map, and campus news. 
The calendar is shown on the screen like a 
normal monthly calendar. In order to find 
out which events are taking place on a 
given day, a person pushes on the screen on 
that given day.
It is possible to find out more information 
about any given event by simply pressing 
on that event. The kiosk has an option that 
allows a person to locate where an event is 
taking place on the campus map.
The map shows an aerial view of the 
campus. There is a little hand that shows a 
person where he is located on the map. It is 
possible to find out the name of each build­
ing by pressing on it. Some information, 
such as what is located in the buildings, is 
also available. The kiosk also offers Uni ver­
sity related news.
The need for the information network 
was documented in findings of the Quality 
of Life Task Force. According to a memo, 
dated February 16, sent to Director of 
Business Services Stephen Schillo, “...al­
though the campus offers a large, rich varied 
set of activities, ‘the vast majority’ of stu­
dents don’t attend because they hear about 
the events too late.”
continued on page 3
.comfortable in MCS because it did not 
have much in common with biology and 
physics and the other departments. In the 
setting of Carnegie Mellon University, it 
has always been more of a school than a 
department.”
Jordan also pointed out that many 
things, including faculty and funding, are 
needed in order for a department to ex­
pand, and “we don’t let departments grow 
arbitrarily;1” »
The Faculty Senate ad hoc committee is 
expected to make its recommendation in 
early November, but the final decision 
concerning SCS will be made by President 
Cyert. “I can’t pre-empt the announce­
ment of tHe Faculty Senate,” said Jordan, 
"but I expect that they will make the 
recommendation with some amendments.” 
If all goes as expected, SCS will be formed 
in February, 1989. Jordan pointed out 
that “This hasii’t been a quick process. We 
have been discussing this change for many 
months in: open meetings and vvith advi­
sory committees.”
Simon speaks on campus
By JONATHAN LEVY
Tartan Assistant News Editor
With the number of days before the 
presidential election down to single digits, 
Illinois Senator Paul Simon came to Car­
negie Mellon Sunday to campaign for 
Democratic nominee, Michael Dukakis.
In a moderately well attended speech in 
the Wherrett Room, Simon spoke about 
most of the major issues which have been 
raised in the campaign.
Simon first defended Dukakis’ guberna­
torial veto of a bill in Massachusetts which 
would have required teachers to lead their 
students in the Pledge of Allegiance. He 
said that after the Supreme Court of 
Massachusetts expressed a unanimous 
opinion that the bill was unconstitutional, 
Dukakis had no choice but to veto it. In 
summing up his feelings on the issue Simon 
said, “The question ... is not who says the 
Pledge of Allegiance to the flag most fre­
quently. The question is who lives up to the 
spirit of the Pledge of Allegiance to the 
flag. With ‘Liberty and Justice for all,’ we
end that Pledge of Allegiance.” Simon said 
he believes Dukakis lives up to this spirit 
better than his opponent. Republican 
George Bush.
One of the most important issues in the 
campaign, according to Simon, is that of 
the appointments that will be made by the 
next president. Simon criticized Bush’s 
first appointment as the Republican 
nominee, his selection of Indiana Senator 
Dan Quayle as his running mate. Simon 
said that even Republicans on Capitol Hill 
have questioned Bush’s choice. He reported 
that one of the Republican members of the 
Senate Education Subcommittee on which 
Simon and Quayle also serve told him that 
“the only good thing | that will happen I if 
Dan Quayle wins for Vice President is that 
he will be off the Education Subcommit­
tee.”
Simon pointed out that by January 20, 
1989 (inauguration day) three of the Jus­
tices of the Supreme Court will be over 80 
years old. He called the question of who 
would eventually be appointed to fill these 
continued on page 5
ECE speakers debate election
photos by David Docktor
LaRoche College Sociology Department Chairman William Donahue (left) holds his 
head while 20th District State Representative Thomas Murphy (right) makes a point 
in support of IVIike Dukakis during the ECE Forum last Friday. See story on page 5.
•i

---------------------------------------------------

2The Tartan • Carnegie Mellon • 1 November 1988
Carnegie Mellon in Brief
MMCH bridge to be demolished
The bridge which connects the north end of Margaret Morrison 
Carnegie Hall with Skibo is scheduled to be removed in mid- 
November. This is the next step in the East Campus construction 
project.
Access to the north door will be restored by the beginning of the 
spring 1989 semester, when the ground surrounding the north 
end of the building will be filled in, bringing ground level up to 
the current level of the bridge.
According to Student Ombudsman Michael Murphy, con­
sideration was given to erecting a flight of stairs from the door 
to the ground, but the cost of the stairs was determined to be too 
“substantial” to justify their construction for so short a period of 
use.
Murphy also said that all fire and safety regulations would be 
followed while the exit is closed.
Members of the campus community <vho have questions or 
comments about the plan should contact Murphy at x2991 or 
University Architect Paul Tellers at x8800.
Crimes and Incidents
Compiled By RANDY L. UDAVCAK
10/21 ARREST, 12:41 pm. A 
man attempted to run down a 
traffic monitor with his car in the 
Skibo parking lot after a parking 
dispute. The man was arrested by 
CMU Police on charges of reck­
less endangerment, harassment, 
and disorderly conduct, and sub­
sequently taken downtown, where 
rie was given a 90-day suspended 
sentence.
10/21 THEFT, 3:36 pm. A Car­
negie Mellon student's dark 
Drown leather flight jacket was 
stolen from Wean Hall 5205. 
Value: $215.
10/22 CRIMINAL MIS­
CHIEF, 2:07 am. Persons un­
known scrawled graffiti alongthe 
walls of the North stairway in 
Margaret Morrison Hall from the 
1st floor to the basement.
10/22 THEFT, 1:14 pm. A 
student's wallet was stolen from 
his jacket in the Technician’s 
lounge in CFA. The wallet con­
tained various credit cards, I.D., 
and $70 in cash.
10/22 VIOLATION OF LIQ­
UOR LAWS, 8:23 pm. Three 
Carnegie Mellon students were 
observed carrying cases of beer 
on Frew Street outside Baker 
Hall. Two of the students, who 
were underage, were given inter­
nal citations.
10/22 CRIMINAL MIS­
CHIEF, 8:49 pm. Persons un­
known broke a window in Skibo 
room 12 with a golf ball appar­
ently hit from the direction of 
Forbes Avenue.
10/23 THEFT, 4:46 am. A mi­
crowave oven was stolen from 
the basement ofWamer Hall. No 
value has been assessed. Cam­
pus Police say there was also an 
attempt to break into a nearby 
vending machine.
10/23 VANDALISM, 3:13 pm. 
Persons unknown struck the door 
of a Morewood Gardens room, 
knocking out the center panel.
10/24/ THEFT, 3:32 pm. A 
walkman-style cassette player 
was stolen from room 186 in CFA. 
Value: $35.00.
10/25 CRIMINAL MIS­
CHIEF, 10:57 am. Persons un­
known deleted and typed over 
two disks in Mellon Institute. It 
took programmers approximately 
40 hours to correct the problem.
10/25 THEFT, 12:30 pm. A 
Blue Schwinn Sierra mountain 
bike was stolen from one of the 
fraternity buildings. Value was 
assessed at $442.00. Both thebike 
and the room from which it was 
stolen were unlocked.
10/25 VANDALISM, 10:06pm. 
Several fire hoses were vandal­
ized in Doherty.
10/25 THEFT, 3:24 pm. A VCR 
was stolen from the Light Lab in 
the basement of CFA. No value 
has been assessed, and the inci­
dent is under investigation.
10/24 THEFT, 2:19 pm. Per­
sons unknown entered Marga­
ret Morrison room 308-A and 
removed assorted video equip­
ment. No value has been as­
sessed.
Terrorists threaten 
American hostages
BEIRUT, Lebanon (AP) — 
Shiite Moslem kidnappers hold­
ing at least two American hos­
tages threatened to punish them 
in retaliation for Israel’s air at­
tacks on Palestinian and pro-Ira- 
nian guerrilla bases in Lebanon.
The threat came in a typewrit­
ten statement in Arabic signed by 
the Islamic Jihad, the pro-Ira- 
nian faction holding American 
journalist Terry Anderson and 
educator Thomas Sutherland.
There was no way to establish 
the authenticity of the statement, 
which was delivered to Beirut’s 
independent An-Nahar newspa­
per.
The statement was not accom­
panied by a photograph of the 
hostages.
Islamic Jihad, or Islamic Holy 
War, has authenticated its past 
statements with photos of its 
captives. There was no explana­
tion for the absence of a photo­
graph with Friday’s statement.
The statement denounced 
Israel’s retaliatory air strikes 
against guerrilla bases in south 
Lebanon Friday.
Corrections
The Tartan reported last week that Jeanne Goldberg was mur­
dered on September 8. 1987. She died on February 8. 1987.
Ron Cnnipapa's title is Director of Greek Affairs, it was 
misreported in last week’s Tartan.
Congress passes 
$4.1 billion tax bill
WASHINGTON (DJ) — Con- 
gress sent President Reagan a 
tax bill last Monday that would 
raise $4.1 billion over three years 
and extend some popular tax 
breaks.
In one of the last actions of this 
Congress, the tax bill was passed 
by the House on a vote of 358-1. 
The Senate approved the meas­
ure by voice vote early Saturday 
morning.
Most of the revenue-raising 
provisions in the tax bill are ac­
ceptable to the Reagan admini­
stration, especially because they 
would pay for some sought-after 
extensions of expiring tax breaks 
and for technical corrections to 
the 1986 tax-overhaul law. The 
bill also would remove the limit 
on the amount of long-term bonds 
the Treasury can issue, which the
administration sought for financ­
ing the national debt.
After a week of deadlock be­
tween House and Senate confer­
ees over .the size and shape of a 
tax bill, a breakthrough occurred 
late two weeks ago when the 
House said it would accept a tax 
increase of $4.1 billion over three 
years, a significant compromise 
from the $7.5 billion called for in 
the House-passed bill. The Sen­
ate version would have increased 
taxes by $2.5 billion for the same 
period.
The bill would raise taxes by 
accelerating corporate estimated 
tax payments, restricting the sale 
of tax breaks by Alaskan native 
corporations and curbing life- 
insurance policies that can serve 
as tax shelters.
The most controversial tax in­
crease in the package would hit 
defense companies and other long­
term contractors, raising their 
taxes by $1.3 billion over three 
years.
N.Y. judge delays 
Marcos court 
appearance
NEW YORK (AP) — A federal 
judge Thursday delayed indefi­
nitely the arraignment of Ferdi­
nand Marcos on racketeering 
charges, but ordered the wife of 
the deposed Philippine president 
to appear in New York on Mon­
day.
“I am adjourning sine die (with­
out date) the arraignment of 
President Marcos,” said U.S. 
District Judge John F. Keenan 
after defense lawyers presented 
him with doctors’ letters saying 
Marcos was too ill to travel the
5,000 miles from Hawaii.
But Keenan refused to delay 
the arraignment of Imelda Mar­
cos, who, like her 71-year-old 
husband, was indicted last week 
for an alleged scheme that looted 
their homeland’s treasury of more 
than $100 million.
“I see no reason at all to delay 
her arraignment,” said Keenan, 
despite pleas from Marcos’ attor­
ney Richard A. Hibey. The Mar­
coses were indicted the previous 
Friday in U.S. District Court in 
New York.
Jobless benefit 
payments down
WASHINGTON (DJ) — The 
roster of people receiving jobless 
benefits is continuing a long-term 
slide, as the unemployment rate 
declines and more laid-off work­
ers are unable to join or stay on 
benefit rolls.
The list of people receiving 
unemployment-insurance pay­
ments has decreased to the low­
est point since the early 1970s, 
Labor Department reports show.
As a result, the number of people 
receiving state benefits has fallen 
below 2 percent of those covered 
by jobless insurance for the first 
time since at least 1971, officials 
said.
Department officials cited the 
economy’s sustained vigor as a 
major reason for the persistent 
drop in the number of persons 
getting jobless benefits.
Unions and other critics of how 
the unemployment-compensation 
program is working placed more 
emphasis on a policy to tighten 
federal and state eligibility re­
quirements. They said revisions 
in unemployment-insurance law 
under the Reagan administration 
h ave made it more difficult for the 
jobless to qualify for benefits and 
limited federal funds and have 
put restrictions on states that 
have forced them to limit financ­
ing of jobless-pay programs.
Such critics contend the insur­
ance system won’t be able to cope 
with any sharp rise in the num­
ber of unemployed seeking job­
less pay when the next recession 
occurs.
Bush, Dukakis 
criticized for 
ignoring deficit
WASHINGTON (DJ) — House 
Ways and Means Committee 
Chairman Dan Rostenkowski (D- 
IL) chastised both presidential 
candidates Wednesday for side­
stepping the budget deficit issue.
“There’s a conspiracy between 
the candidates and the voters to 
avoid the hard facts,” Rostenkow­
ski said in a speech prepared for 
delivery to a meeting of the 
American Gas Association in 
Tucson, Arizona.
“Apparently our old friend Rosy 
Scenario has a double date with 
both George Bush and Michael 
Dukakis,” said Rostenkowski, 
who warned that continuing to 
ignore the deficit could precipi­
tate “falling into a financial pit 
created by the financial markets” 
and of having to mount a response 
like the bipartisan budget sum­
mit that took place after the stock 
market crash of 1987.
In unusually blunt language, 
Rostenkowski accused Vice Presi­
dent Bush and Massachusetts 
Gov. Dukakis of ducking what he 
and a number of other observers 
feel will be the toughest issue 
facing the next President, the 
budget deficit. He cited “echoes of 
Alice In Wonderland,” and said, 
“Sometimes it seems that the 
current crop (of presidential can­
didates) is promising never to 
confront the truth.”
Rostenkowski, while lambast­
ing the candidates, previewed 
where he will stand on taxes and 
deficit reduction next year. “If we 
have a president who wants to
bite the bullet and raise the taxes 
needed to tame the deficit, I will 
be among the first to enlist in his * 
army,” he said.
“If we have a president who 
wants to sidestep action, I’ll stand 
at parade rest awaiting his com­
mand,” Rostenkowski continued. 
“And if we have a president whoi 
actually tries to cut taxes by i 
enacting a preferential capital 
gains rate, I’ll take to the trenches 
and do my damnedest to make 
sure that we raise a dollar in new I 
revenues for every dollar he gives/ 
away.”
Casey vetoes 
gambling bill
HARRISBURG — Pennsylva- 
nia Governor Bob Casey has ve­
toed a bill which would have al­
lowed social clubs and charitable 
organizations to raise money 
through gambling events. The 
veto at 10 pm on October 23 came 
just two hours before the bill would 
have become law by default.
Under the bill, organizations 
would have been allowed to run 
raffles and other small games-of- 
chance as long as the prizes did 
not exceed $500 and no electric or 
mechanical games were used.
The state licencing fees would 
have been used for schools.
Casey explained his veto by 
saying that he feared the games 
would not remain small scale.
Supporters of the bill say they 
will attempt to override Casey’s 
veto. It is not known whether 
they will be successful. The Leg 
islature is out of session until 
November 14.
City, county differ 
over payments for 
Pirates deal
PITTSBURGH — The city o 
Pittsburgh claims that Allegheny 
County owes them $426,000 a 
part of an agreement made thi ef 
years ago to keep the Pirates ii 
town.
The city says that the count] 
paid the money in 1986, the firs 
year of the agreement, but failei 
to pay last year.
The county claims Pittsburgl 
has not given the neccesary infoi 
mation to the county agency whicl 
is to pay the money.
News Briefs appear 
courtesy of Dow Jones
SPRING 1989 ADVANCE REGISTRATION
WEDNESDAY, NOVEMBER 9 
AND 
THURSDAY, NOVEMBER 10
AH undergraduate and graduate students (except CIT/MCS freshmen) are expected to advance register on 
November 9 or 10 if they wish to enroll at Carnegie Mellon for Spring 1989. If you won’t be returning for reasons 
other than graduation, please complete an Application for Withdrawal/Leave of Absence (clearly marked "Spring 
1989") and submit the application to your department. If you are unable to register on November 9 or 10, ask your 
advisor to process your registration, or call the Registrar's Office for special instructions.
You will use the Registration and Demographic Data Document (R3D) to update demographic information and to 
register for courses. Your R3D is available in your department; H&SS freshmen and sophomores may pick up their 
R3Ds in the Academic Advisory Center, Baker Hall 161. CIT/MCS freshmen have received separate instructions and 
do not advance register at this time.
The Schedule of Classes Spring Semester 1989 will be availabe October 27 at the Skibo Information Desk and 
inside Baker Hall's main entrance. The schedule contains Spring 1989 course offerings, instructors, times and 
rooms, as well as registration and enrollment instructions. Please obtain a copy, and carefully read and follow the 
instructions.
my1.
2. Pick up a Schedule of Classes Spring Semester 1989 and prepare a tentative course schedule with
‘ADVANCE REGISTRATION INSTRUCTIONS*
1. Pick up your R3D from your department and update/correct the demographic information.
Pick up a Sc/ 
alternatives.
3. Meet with your advisor to have the schedule approved. Many advisors will extend office hours during 
advance registration, but you should contact yours for specific approval information. Your R3D is not 
valid without advisor approval.
4. On November 9 or 10, between 9:30 am and 4:00 pm, go to the departments teaching the course(s) you 
wish to register for and obtain registration approval. Courses are not processed without department 
approval.
5. After obtaining all approvals, sign the R3D and return it to your department. Even if you don't obtain all 
department approvals, submit the R3D anyway; you can try to add an unapproved course in January.
If you need further information or assistance, contact your department or the Registrar's Office, 268-2004.

---------------------------------------------------

The Tartan • Carnegie Mellon • 1 November 19883
Leaks are still a problem at E&S Library
gy PRISCILLA HSUE
[Tartan Staffwriter
The Engineering and Science Li­
brary is still battling problems with 
water leaks thirteen months after a 
;niajor leakage occurred last year.
In September 1987, early one morn­
ing, Patricia A. Fitzgerald, Assistant 
Director for Public Services, was noti­
fied that the E&S Library had three 
' inches of water on the floor.
Upon Fitzgerald’s arrival, she found 
over 1500 volumes wet and was forced 
to freeze 450 volumes within twelve 
hours to save them. Currently, the 
books are still in storage.
Accordi ng to Fi tzgeral d, the repl ace- 
ment costs would run over $140,000.
Just removing the books from storage 
requires a special technique that must 
“be performed by professionals.
The volumes that were not frozen 
have swollen and the pages are 
wrinkled. Library staff and student assistants must 
spend time rebinding the volumes and smoothing
them Ollt.. nacrp hv natro
Last year’s library flooding was due to a water 
main break and a heavy rainstorm. In the opinion 
of Fitzgerald, there still exist major problems with 
water and the E&S Library.
' Water continually seeps into the patio. The patio 
"was supposedly fixed, but the problem has per-
The book shelves of the E&S Library shown still covered in plastic 
year after major flood problems.
sisted.
Also, the outer surface of the library has cracks 
and is porous. As a result, more water enters the li­
brary.
Finally, the two sets of skylights within the li­
brary are notorious for leaking. Minor problems 
include water mains outside of Wean Hall backing 
up as well as water mains inside the building 
freezing.
Hamburg site for conference
continued from page 1
discussed a “Personal Assessment 
'Survey” which examined learned 
attitudes toward and experiences 
"with culturally different groups. 
The survey asked questions such 
as “What do you remember about 
!the attitudes and feelings of sig­
nificant others (parents, close 
•elatives, close friends, role mod­
els, etc.) toward people from cul­
turally different groups?” and 
Identify your own cultural group 
liBlacks, Whites, Asians, and Gay/ 
Lesbian) and tell briefly what it 
means to be a member of that 
group.”
Each small group reported sev­
eral observations to the large 
group.
The facilitators then hung signs 
on the back of each person and 
asked everyone to mix and to 
react to the tags as they normally 
would and then react prejudi­
cially.
The tags included such labels 
s “sorority chic,” “nigger,” “frat 
boy,” “slut,” “fag,” “chink,” “nerd,” 
and “spic.”
The participants “again broke 
up into small groups and dis­
cussed the labels and how they 
elt about being stereotyped and 
brought these observations back
lo the larger group.
The groups next divided along 
he lines of cultural similarity — 
Vhites, Blacks, Jewish and In-
Diuman Ulelaiions 
Conference
‘CPrcmdmq Uiarmcry far the Coronan Goa1
ternationals — and addressed 
such questions as “What is it like 
to be a member of your group on 
this campus?” and “What do you 
as a.group want from the campus 
community?” Each group pre­
sented their perceptions on these 
issues.
The program , ended with the 
participants synthesizing the ob­
servations of the day into sugges­
tions for personal action to in­
crease cultural awareness, which 
included the following:
•Read, read, read about differ­
ent cultures.
•Place yourself in a minority 
group by joining campus organi­
zations.
•“Listen to my voice, don’t read 
my face.” Use these words from 
Jesse Jackson to remind yourself 
to focus on what others are.sav- 
ing.
• Have a cultural awareness day 
or week (food fest, organization 
fair, etc. » celebrating the diver­
sity of cultures.
•Initiate interaction on an in­
dividual level.
We Make Waves.
on &y-ßres^
^f\\s a<f
Lewis’
Hair's what wc do best.
813 S. Aiken Avc..Shadyside 
682-4063
TT Valid Mon - Thurs, 9 am - 3 pm Reg. $15 Offer expires November 30
Love Letters.
Since 1961, Amnesty International has been writing love letters — 
for more than 150,000 men, women and children around the world. 
They're in prison or being tortured simply for what they said, believe 
or who they are. And that's criminal.
Write a love letter today. Tell them you know and care. It could 
be the sweetest letter you've ever sent.
é
 Write a letter, save a life.
Amnesty International
Interestingly, if the ceiling of the 
library was removed, stalactites would 
be visible as a result of water seeping 
in from the patio combining with min­
erals.
There exist several solutions to the 
water problem. Fitzgerald proposes a 
regular program of resealing the gut­
ters and recaulking the skylights at 
least three times a year. For a more 
permanent solution, both cleaning and 
sealing the outside of the building may 
be necessary.
The Mellon Institute Library also 
suffers from water damage but for 
different reasons.
Lynn A. Labun, Head of Mellon In­
stitute Library, cites several reasons 
for water leakage.
The Mellon Institute library is lo­
cated directly under a chemistry labo­
ratory.
Several times, a hose has popped off 
upstairs, and water has come running 
down into the library. Also, the building is very old 
and contains terracota drain pipes, which crack 
and drip. During August and September, the Mellon 
Institute Library suffered three leaks.
According to Labun, the water leakage causes 
molds and bacteria to grow on the journals. The 
damage to the library itself is also evident. The 
floor, carpet, and wooden paneling are all visibly 
stained.
almost one
Information Kiosk 
unveiled at Hunt
continued from page 1
The information kiosk has been under con­
sideration and planning since February of this 
year.
Basinski stated that the beta test unit cost 
about $10,000 to produce and the funding came 
from President Richard Cyert.
The network has been under development 
since about April. According to student and 
Desk Top Publishing Consultant Brian Harri­
son, originally the network would have been 
made of IBM PS/2s and would have been non­
interactive and constantly scrolling.
Harrison suggested the touch screen Macin­
toshes, which cost about half the value of the 
originally suggested terminals.
The information kiosk is also accessible over 
the campus appletalk network. There are also 
plans to allow access from the library network
The network is run jointly from University 
Relations and Student Affairs. In order to get 
events placed on campus events it is necessary 
to go through the office of Public Relations.
Other sites at which the network will be 
located are: Skibo, Baker, Doherty, Hamburg, 
Wean, Warner, Morewood Gardens, Mellon In­
stitute, SEI, CFA, GSIA, Scaife Hall, and the 
gymnasium.
The term kiosk is a Turkish or Persian term 
that refers to a pavilion.
•Sponsor debates on issues of 
interest to various cultural 
groups.
•Sponsor cultural awareness 
programs on an ongoing basis, 
especially at freshman orienta­
tion.
•Look into the possibility of a 
required, graded ethnic studies 
class worth a few units of credit.
Student reaction to the exer­
cises seemed very positive and 
enthusiastic.
Dean Cox commented that the 
conference “accomplished a lot,” 
raising awareness on a wide vari­
ety of issues as a starting point for 
dealing with the issues.
Student Ombudsman Michael 
Murphy agreed that the weekend 
was successful in “exploring is­
sues” and that the people who 
attended are capable of making 
changes and spreading the word.
Facilitators Archer and Parker 
were also impressed with the 
participants, who had different 
opinions and perceptions and yet 
were enthusiastic and sincere 
about the issues.
Archer and Parker were en­
couraged by the cooperation and 
that the awareness led some 
groups to make plans for specific 
action.
Students interested in more 
information can contact the Stu­
dent Affairs office at extension 
2075.
Free Walk-In Tutoring 
Sunday through Thursday 8 - 11p.m.
Calculus 
Physics 
Academic Writing 
Chemistry 
Sunday through Wednesday 
Intro, to Computing
WeH - 5403 
WeH - 5205 
BH - 13 IB 
BH - 131A
8:00 - 11:00 p.m.
WeH - 5409
Sponsored by Counseling and Student Developement 
Center, Division of Student Affairs.
THE SLEEPING BAG CAMPAIGN
This fall is approaching quickly and so are the annual Sleeping Bag Weekends. This year, the 
Admissions office will have four sleeping bag weekends for high school students interested in the 
university. Due to the popularity of the programs, increasing numbers of students have been 
attending. That is why we need you to help us!
If you would like to take part in these events, there are a couple of ways that you can help:
Escorts Your role is to take groups of students to the dorms in which they will be staying.
Hosts Your contribution is to be in your room during arrival times to greet the student(s) and 
then to provide them with a place to sleep.
r~‘YOUR NAME .
DORM_______
ROOM #_____
BOX#_______
MAJOR'“I
PHONE_
CIT/MCS WEEKEND SEPTEMBER 25-26 (STUDENTS AKRIVE 2-5 PM) ___ I WOULD LIKE TO HOST___STUDENTS
__I WOULD LIKE TO ESCORT STUDENTS ON SUNDAY FROM 2-5 PM
CIT/MCS WEEKEND OCTOBER 16-17 (STUDENTS ARRIVE 2-5 PM)
__I WOULD LIKE TO HOST___STUDENTS__I WOULD LIKE TO ESCORT STUDENTS ON SUNDAY FROM 2-5 PM
H&SS WEEKEND NOVEMBER 6-7 (STUDENTS ARRIVE 2-5 PM)__I WOULD LIKE TO HOST___STUDENTS
__I WOULD LIKE TO ESCORT STUDENTS ON SUNDAY FROM 2-5 PM
CFA WEEKEND NOVEMBER 13-14 (STUDENTS ARRIVE 2-5 PM)__I WOULD LIKE TO HOST___STUDENTS
__I WOULD LIKE TO ESCORT STUDENTS ON SUNDAY FROM 2-5 PM
Please fold and return to the Admissions Office (WH 101) - by campus mail or phone x2083
L..J

---------------------------------------------------

Start practicing 
for the real world.
Using an IBM® Personal System/2* computer to help you succeed in college can also prepare you to succeed in a 
career. Because chances are, after you graduate, you’ll be working on an IBM computer.
So the IBM PS/2 is the perfect investment. It can help you organize your notes, write and revise papers, produce 
high-quality graphics, and more. And not only is it easy to learn and use, but if eligible, you’ll receive significant discounts. 
Get a head start by working now on the computer you’ll probably be working on later.
CMU Computer Store 
UCC Building 
A Level 
268-2636 
Hours: 10:00 am — 4:30 pm
COME SEE THE SECOND 
BATTLE OF THE
ATÜ*B0ri'AY'i>K©'KAP*ÄTÄ*nKA*IAE»IN*nA(D*0H*KX*AEn«ITr
THOSE BATTLING TO BECOME THE 
1988 MR. FRATERNITY
George Baggott 
Mike Hayes 
Craig Holbrook 
Mark Imhoff 
Evan Indianer 
Matt Ireland 
Joe Marineau
Dain Nesbitt 
Dave Pagani 
Sam Ruta 
RJ Runas 
Mark Wabalas 
CJ Warner 
Wayne Worley
Benefits the 
Karin Johnson Fund 
within the 
National Asthma Foundation
Sponsored by:
Kappa Alpha Theta
Friday, November 4, 1988, 8pm 
Skibo Ballroom, CMU $3.00 Donation
ATii*B0n*AY*OK0'KAP*ATA*IlKA»IAE*IN*nAi)*@S*KI'AEiI*ITr

---------------------------------------------------

The Tartan • Carnegie IVIellon • 1 November 19885
Simon campaigns for Dukakis in Wherrett Room
ontinued from pagel
and other positions an important
one.
During his speech, Simon re- 
¡ponded to some of the issues 
•aised by Bush campaign com­
mercials. While speaking about 
the issue of furloughs for prison­
ers he quipped “I have a great 
respect for the office of Sheriff but 
we have to recognize that we are 
not electing a Sheriff of the United 
States. We’re electing a President 
of the United States.”
He said that 38 states have fur­
lough programs and pointed out 
that during the time Ronald 
Reagan was Governor of Califor­
nia two prisoners on parole com­
mitted murders. He said that the 
Democrats did not use this against 
Reagan when he ran for presi­
dent in 1980 and criticized the 
Republicans for publicizing a rape 
committed by a Massachusetts 
prisoner on a furlough.
In his 45 minute speech Simon 
also discussed the environment, 
jobs, education, health care, and 
the arms race as areas where he 
feels Dukakis is superior to Bush.
At both the beginning and end 
of his speech, Simon emphasized 
that the outcome of the election 
has not yet been determined. He 
discussed past elections which
have not turned out as expected 
including Harry Truman’s upset 
of Thomas Dewey in the 1948 
presidential election and Simon’s 
own victory over Charles Percy in 
the 1984 Illinois senatorial elec­
tion. Simon said that the last 
published poll before that elec­
tion predicted that he would lose 
by 13 percentage points.
Simon urged members of the 
audience to work for Dukakis and 
to vote.
The Senator pointed to the 1968 
presidential election in which, he 
said, Hubert Humphrey had been 
behind by 11 points two weeks 
before the election and ended up
losing by only seven-tenths of a 
point. “How different history 
would be,” Simon said, “if all of us 
had done just a little bit of work 
and Hubert Humphrey had won 
instead of Richard Nixon.” 
Simon mentioned two things he 
thinks Dukakis has to do in order 
to win the election. The first, he 
said, is to continue to “fight and 
be feisty” in running his cam­
paign. The second, is to “spell out 
his dreams for America.”
Simon predicted that the elec­
tion will be a tight one and said
that every vote will count. As 
evidence he offered the results of 
the 1948 election in which Tru­
man carried Simon’s home state 
of Illinois by less than two votes 
per precinct and the 1960 election 
when John F. Kennedy won Illi­
nois by less than one vote per 
precinct.
In closing Simon told the largely 
student audience that “The final 
that comes on November 8th is 
much more important to your 
future than any final you’re going 
to take in four or five years here.”
photo by Tom Nichols*}
Paul Simon addresses students ini; 
the Wherrett Room Sunday.
ECE Forum sponsors debate
By KARL BARNHART
Tartan Editor-in-Chief
Over 55 students watched a 
professor from LaRoche College 
debate a Pennsylvania State Rep­
resentative over the upcoming 
Presidential election in a special 
•clition of the ECE Forum series. 
The two men spent an hour and 
half last Friday defending their 
respective candidates, attacking 
iach other and answering ques­
tions from the audience.
The Republican sponsor pushed 
more-of-the-same agenda. “I 
support George Bush because we 
have had eight years of relative 
peace. 1 In addition, t ]he economy, 
not withstanding the problems 
we have with the deficit, is far 
better than what it was under 
previous administrations. And I 
would like to see that progress 
maintained,” said LaRoche Col­
lege Sociology Chairman William 
Donahue in his five-minute open­
ing statement.
However, in his opening speech, 
20th District State Representa­
tive Thomas Murphy, attacked 
the current administration say­
ing, “It is easy to have economic 
prosperity as long as you don’t 
have to pay your bills. We cannot 
continue to spend at the rate we
have spent the last eight years of 
this administration and expect 
not to pay the bills some day.” 
Another point of contention was 
the role of government. While Do­
nahue said that the American 
people wanted less government 
with a smaller role, Murphy pro­
posed to redefine government till 
it became a leader and initiator of 
change. “Here in the Pittsburgh 
area CMU is building a building 
on the Pittsburgh Technology 
Center that will be an important 
addition to the economy of Pitts­
burgh because it will provide 
opportunities for new technology 
to be developed and attract com­
panies that want to work with 
that technology. Governor 
Dukakis saw the need for those 
kind of investments in Massa­
chusetts. That is a governor who 
understands what the role of 
government is and doesn’t, in an 
ideological way, ignore that gov­
ernment has a role.”
On higher education, the two 
disagreed violently over whether 
government should provide finan­
cial aid to graduate students.
“I don’t think that you ought to 
ask the working class people to 
pay in their taxes for your gradu­
ate school status — and I’ll tell 
you that right to your face. You
Senate Minutes 10/25
Meeting called to order at 7:00 
pm.
Senators Present: Barros,
Black, Bromberg (late), Brumitt, 
Conard, deJong, Dennis, Franco, 
aser, Frazier, Helledy, 
lainchill, Kornbrek, Lenga, Levy, 
Mittelhauser, Mukherjee, Neigh- 
)or, Pavlosky, Rosenblum, SDC 
iepresentative, Steppel, Vaser- 
itein
Absent: Christina (exc.), Di Vito 
exc.). Evans (exc.), Fine (exc.), 
ierron (exc.), Robitshek (exc.), 
iuben (exc.), Detillo 
Audience Participation: 
'»one
President: No Report 
Treasurer: No Report
SDC: Williams discussed the 
ew VCR policy.
Student Affairs: Campana
Iso asked for three names to serve 
nan Honorary Degree Commit-
le.
Chairman: Levy discussed 
(bother the Executive meetings' 
tould be required to attend or 
Phonal since they have only a. 
I'v members. She also discussed 
Senate possibly meeting ev- 
IV other week or when neces- i'y. Senate will be meeting in 
olierty Hall room 2210 at 7:00. 
he Elections for new Senators 
be held Nov. 29,30. The peti- 
®ns for this election are to be 
ned in by Nov. 15, 5:00 pm. 
Academic Affairs: Academic 
omputing student advisory 
ouncil talked about printing on 
aserwriters from Dorm rooms, 
he previous policy was, no one 
'as permitted to print from their 
orms. The policy has been 
Ranged. Student are now per­
mitted to print in their dorms, 
enator Steppel also informed the 
enate that the library will be 
Purchasing the books requested ,|y the Minority students. 
Campus Affairs: The Cam- 
|us Affairs Committee new proj- 
ts are now in progress. Matt 
uben will talk to Oscar Meyer 
°ut getting Tartan open past
ought to pay for it yourself with 
some assistance. But what you 
want is the government to pay for 
it which means you want the poor 
people, who you normally bleed 
all over the place for, to pay for in 
their taxes for someone who once 
he gets his graduate degree will 
make hundreds of thousands of 
dollars more in a lifetime than 
those poor people wi 11 ever make,” 
said Donahue.
“Mr. Donahue assumes of course 
that you all come from middle 
class families and you can afford 
to pay for graduate school in the 
first place. And that’s the differ­
ence. There is an underlying phi­
losophy [in the Democratic party I 
of an understanding that there 
are millions of people in our soci­
ety that will never get to graduate 
school because they cannot afford 
it,” responded Murphy.
According to Associate ECE 
Department Head Jim Hoburg, 
he started the Forum series to 
broaden the students in his de­
partment.
“I have had a nagging feeling 
for several years that our stu­
dents had a narrow view of the 
world. These programs represent 
the nuts and bolts kinds of things 
graduates have to face,” explained 
Hoburg.
Get Involved m Sftedeimfr Government
Student Senate Fall Seats 
Petitions are now being taken for Fall seats in the 
following colleges:
CFA...........................................................2 seats
H&SS........................................................3 seats
CIT...........................................................5 seats
IM...............................................................1 seat
Comp Sei...................................................1 seat
MCS..........................................................3 seats
GSIA..........................................................1 seat
SUPA..........................................................1 seat
* Petitions are available at the Skibo Information Desk.
* Petitions are due by 5 pm on Tuesday, November 15 in the 
Student Senate mailbox at the Skibo Information Desk.
* Elections will be November 29 and 30.
ANY QUESTIONS? 
Call x2115 
Student Senate Office 
Skibo 59
eleven on weekdays. Ruben will 
also speak with Health Services 
to get them to replace the stolen
condom machine in front of the 
Health Center. Christina will 
talk to Matthews of the Physical 
Plant about getting feminine 
hygeine dispensers refilled more 
frequently., Lisa will also investi­
gate Chemistry lab ventilation 
difficulties and what is being done 
about it. Fraser will be talking to 
Pete Collopy, of university health
6 safety, to apply his pressure to 
the situation of“Slippery Doherty 
Hall Fire Escape.”
Roy Conard will talk to the reg­
istrar about possibly moving 
classes affected by the construc­
tion noise in Porter Hall. Glenn 
Kornbrek will finally be pursu­
ing Spray Booths in Margaret 
Morrison now.
Funding & Recognition: 
Jainchill discussed changing the 
Fiscal Policy. See New Business.
Public Relations: The Stu­
dent Senate Round-Table will be 
on Nov. 3 at 7:30 in Skibo room 
12. The theme will be “Where 
Does Your Activities Fee Go?”
Rules: No report
Old Business: Lenga untabled 
the Amendment to the 
Constitution. The Amendment 
adds the Student Ombudsman to 
the list of Ex-Officio members. 
Motion passed.
New Business: Jainchill pro­
posed an Amendment of the new 
Fiscal Policy. The new version of 
the Fiscal Policy states: A viable 
buggy organization may only 
request funding to build a new 
buggy three years after receiving 
Activities Fee Funding to build a 
buggy. Motion passed.
Announcements: Public
Relation committee meeting on 
Thursday at 7:30 pm. The Cam­
pus Affairs Committee meeting 
is Wednesday at 5:30. The Rules 
Committee meeting is Monday at
7 pm in the Senate Office.
Meeting adjourned approxi­
mately 7:55 pm.
l
While everyone else has been squawking 
about leading edge" technologies, 
one company has quietly become the leader
Meet BBN. We’ve been quietly researching and developing advanced technologies since 1948. The result? A quiet revolution 
in fields as diverse as artificial intelligence and expert systems, automated systems, wide-area communication networks, 
speech and signal processing, parallel processing, underwater and architectural acoustics, computer graphics, simulation and
training systems, and more.
How do we stay in the lead? Through the innovative work of 2900 bright and creative people worldwide, most of them 
scientists and engineers. We attract and motivate talented people by offering them opportunities to make their mark on 
revolutionary technologies like the Butterfly™ parallel processor or the RS/I® software package for scientific and 
engineering research used in Project Athena. Or the next generation of telecommunications or computer imaging products.
Which leads us to you. If you are graduating with a degree in computer science, electrical or mechanical engineering, 
physics or applied math, we’d like to introduce you to “The Leader.” We’d like to give you the opportunity to share an 
outstanding work environment with libraries, exercise facilities and advanced computer tools. . .with all the academic, 
professional, and cultural resources of Cambridge close by. Join some of the top minds in your field and participate in our
continuing growth and achievement. Quietly.
To explore a promising future with BBN, see your Placement Office about our on-campus interview schedule. Or send your 
resume to Ms. M. McQuillen, Bolt Beranek and Newman Inc., 10 Moulton Street, Cambridge, MA 02238.
We are an Equal Opportunity Employer.
Bolt Beranek and Newman Inc.
BBN Communications Corporation • BBN Systems and Technologies Corporation • BBN Software Products Corporation • BBN Advanced Computers Inc.
• BBN Manufacturing Corporation
We will be on campus November 14th.

---------------------------------------------------

Mu dsl inging gets everyone dirty
In 1988, both the Democrats and 
Republicans have resorted to 
mudslinging tactics and outright 
lies in their presidential 
campaigns. This is not news to 
anyone who has followed the 
campaign, but we would like to 
Voice our concern for how the 
campaign is being run, here, at 
Carnegie Mellon.
The College Democrats recently 
had t-shirts made up for their 
cause. The shirts, however, do not 
illustrate or state how the Dukak- 
is/Beritsen ticket is the best way 
to vote. Instead, the shirts have 
the international “no” symbol over 
a picture of George Bush with the 
caption “Just Say No.” Sym­
bolically, this shirt doesn’t say, 
“Vote for Dukakis," it says, “Vote 
for anyone, as long as it isn't Bush!” 
Such advertising says nothing 
about the merits of Dukakis or 
Specific problems with Bush. This 
is ridiculous.
The College Republicans put up 
posters with the slogan “If you 
believe in Mom, apple pie, and the 
flag...” vote Republican. What 
about Democrats; can’t they 
believe in Mom and apple pie, too?
Also, during the debates, the 
College Democrats held a “Debate 
Party” where people could come 
and watch in a group setting. 
•However, many adamant Dukakis 
supporters began yelling at the 
screen whenever Bush spoke. 
People who wanted to learn more 
about the man and his campaign, 
couldn’t.. Such behavior is a 
detriment to the idea of freedom 
of choice and totally stops the free
flow of ideas the debates are 
supposed to inspire.
The problem with all of this lies 
in the fact that as college students, 
we are not trying to educate one 
another about the issues at hand 
or the respective party platforms. 
We should make ourselves open 
and aware of both campaigns. This 
means cutting through all the 
campaign rhetoric and mud­
slinging to get to the issues and 
comparing both candidates for 
their own merits — not what one 
has to say about the other.
For many of us, this is the first 
time we are voting in a presidential 
election. As such, we should take 
the time to educate ourselves and 
one another.
Campaigns are not designed to, 
for example, get Democrats to vote 
for the Democratic candidate. 
They are designed to persuade 
the “undecided” voters of the 
country. For this reason, ads 
should not be focused on the neg­
ative aspects of the opposing 
candidate. Such ads are useless in 
that they give no evidence why 
one should vote for the candidate 
who produced the ad. Tell us why 
your candidate is right, not just 
that the other guy is wrong.
If we are the future of America, 
we must not follow examples that 
we know are bad. Let’s not set a 
precedent for making choices on 
false or little information. Voting 
without knowledge is shirking our 
responsibility and our most 
valuable right as Americans. Vote, 
but understand and trust your 
decision.
People learning about people
Most of the time, we Carnegie 
Mellon students run around 
putting out fires, hoping to contain 
small blazes before we are 
¦engulfed by an inferno. Seldom do 
y/e slow down. Seldom do we take
¦ the time to learn abouteach other.
As a result, we sometimes have 
' a tough time dealing with one 
^another. Or as a visitor said last 
weekend, people know so little of 
people. That's too bad.
: For about a year, a group of 
¦students and administrators have 
jbeen fighting this problem. After 
countless meetings, they invited 
'.two counselors from Florida to 
hold a Human Relations Con­
ference here. Thi s conference, they 
imagined, would help increase
sensitivity between students and 
make them more aware of each 
other’s special needs.
With this seemingly impossible 
goal in mind and 10 short hours of 
conference time, it was hard not 
to be skeptical going into last 
weekend’s events.
Yet somehow it worked. 
Somehow those two counselors 
were able to change eighty-some 
Carnegie Mellon students. Forthe 
pi'ice of a few hours, we learned 
how to interact with others in ways 
we had never imagined. Maybe 
more importantly, we learned 
something about ourselves.
We can only hope this isn’t the 
first and last Human Relations 
Conference.
THE TARTAN
Editor-in-Chief.......................Karl S. Barnhart
Managing Editor ..............Erika L. Peterson
Business Manager.............Russ Seligman
News Editor................................Carlos Franco
Asst. News Editor....................Jonathan Levy
Features Editor.............................Howdy Pierce
Asst. Features Editor.Catherine Lo Monico
Sports Editor.....................................Josh Ruben
Asst. Sports Editor ...........Natalie Hawryluk
Diversions Editor...................Michael T. Rose
Asst. Diversions Editor.................Lori Maurer
Photo Darkroom Editor...........Georg Thomas
Photo Assignment Editor......Andy Gillespie
Art Editor...............................Grant Carmichael
Asst. Art Editor........................William Sabram
Production Manager.................Dustin Frazier
Senior Prod. Asst..................Robert Cucuzza
Magazine Editor....................Judy Haraburda
Asst. Magazine Editor......Christine Klocek
Copy Editor........................................Drue Miller
Dossier Editors .............................Leslie Griffin
Jim Williams III
Dossier Design Editor.......Maria Carluccio
Contributing Editors .................David N. Levy
Stewart Levine 
Eric W. Leuliette 
Albrecht T. Powell
Carnegie Mellon University's student newspaper since 1906
¦j-(HJ'prtan is the student newspaper ol Carnegie Mellon Univer­
sity. It i.a weekly newspaper published by students each Tuesday 
during tie *al1 and sPrin9 semesters, at no cost to members ol the 
universii community. It is printed by Western Pennsylvania 
Printing.Ir- Subscriptions are available lor S15 per semester. S25 
per year. "he Editorial appearing at the beginning ol the opinion 
section is,he 0,licial opinion ol The Tartan editorial board. 
Columns bre lhe °Pinions ol individual authors who are not 
necessarily (T Tho Tar,an editorial board or stall. Letters to the 
Editor are opaions ol individual authors who are usually members 
ol the Univet community. A letter intended lor publication must 
be signed anc 'nclucie ,tie writer s address and phone number lor 
verilication. N.imes Wl11 be withheld upon request. The Tartan re­
serves the rig'110 conc)ense or reject any letter or column. Copy-
right' 1988 by The Tartan The Tartan editorial board reserves 
the right to withhold Irom publication any copy it deems unlit lor pub­
lication.
Office: Skibo 50 (412) 268-2111 
Mailing address: The Tartan / Box 17 / 
Carnegie Mellon University /
Pittsburgh, PA 15213
Funded in part by the Activities Fee.
All rights reserved.
Library of Congress ISSN #: 0890-3107.
Driver, student involved in shuttle dispute
Editor:
Last Thursday, the 9:30 shuttle did 
not leave Skibo until 9:45. That in itself 
is not particularly remarkable to people 
who ride the shuttle regularly. Neither 
will regular shuttle riders find remark­
able the fact that the shuttle left iate 
because the driver was inside Skibo talk­
ing. The evening shuttle driver is consis­
tently late in leaving Skibo on the eve­
ning shuttle run.
What is remarkable, however, is the 
fact that one student who was fed up 
with waiting pushed the horn. A few 
minutes later the driver came out of 
Skibo and got on board. After assuming
Letters to the Editor
an aggressive stance and glaring at'the 
student who had pushed the horn, 'the 
driver proceeded to verbally assault the 
student, threatening to throw him (\ff 
the shuttle: “Did you honk my horn? Ho 
you want to miss this run entirely? Don't 
you ever honk my horn! I leave on time, 
and I arrive on time!”
There may have been more in this 
vein, but I was so infuriated by this time1 
that I wouldn’t be surprised to hear I; 
missed it. Imagine, here was the shuttle 
driver, fifteen minutes late for no good
Grad school fair ignored 
non-engineering majors
Editor:
As an English major, I was deeply dis­
appointed with the Graduate School Fair 
held in the Ballroom on October 25.
I found out about the Graduate School 
Fail* from a flyer lying on the table in the 
Career Services and Placement Office. 
The flyer listed the names of the schools 
that would be attending — only the 
names. Because I noticed several schools 
with reputable English programs, I de­
cided to attend the fair.
Upon entering the Ballroom, however, 
I discovered that, of the universities I 
was interested in, only the departments 
of engineering were represented. Indeed, 
of the nineteen colleges and universities 
present, eleven of them had representa­
tives from the engineering departments. 
With the exception of Duquesne's Col­
lege of Arts and Sciences and CMU's 
H&SS and Physics Department, the other 
schools were represented by their busi­
ness, management, or law programs.
Contrary to popular belief, Carnegie 
Mellon does have other majors besides 
engineeringand industrial management. 
However, little consideration appears to 
have been given to this fact.
Looking through the booklet given to 
me when I entered the Ballroom. I found 
that this fair was sponsored by Tau Beta 
Pi Engineering Honor Society. Now. if 
Tau Beta Pi wants to sponsor an engi- 
nebringgraduate school fair, that’s their 
perogative. But it shouldn't be billed as 
an event “open to all students” when it 
obviously is not.
The idea of a graduate school fair is a 
very good one. Perhaps next year, it can 
be sponsored by other honor societies 
and organizations along with Tau Beta
Pi to give a more diverse cross-section of 
disciplines.
Jenni Severa
Junior, Professional Writing/ 
Literary and Cultural Studies .
1
reason, saying that he was leaving on 
time! Not only was he blatantly lying, he 
was browbeating a student who merely 
wanted to go home after a day of classes!
I got some interesting comments when 
I related this incident to other students 
who ride the shuttle. They generally 
went like this: “(Him)? Oh yeah,-he's the 
mean one.” or “Yeah, he’s an asshole." 
and my favorite, “He’s really unreliable; 
I think they should fire him.”
Why is this person still working a) 
Carnegie Mellon? He’s obviously been 3 
problem for a long time, he doesn’t take 
his.job seriously, and he doesn’t resped 
students. If the reason is that no one has 
complained before, well then this is my 
complaint. If the administration wantsa 
way to improve the quality of the stui 
dents’ lives for less than the cost of a new 
university center, they could find a new 
shuttle driver for the evening route on 
weeknights.
(The name of the driver has intention\ 
ally been left out of this,letter.) ¦
Neil Wiliams 
Senior, Philosophy
Not all Southerners proud of flag
Editor:
Mr. Potter’s presentation of a South­
erner feeling proud of his heritage atj the
sight of a Confederate flag (The Tai tan, 
25 October) was stirring, if not ? bit 
stereotypical. I’m a Southerner as well, 
from North Carolina. I grew up seeing 
the Confederate flag. However, un ike 
Mr. Potter I do not feel that this flag 
represents my heritage. In fact (¡he 
thought of this flag as a symbol of rpy 
part of the country makes me ill. As a 
black American I find the flag offensive 
and as a black Southerner I find the flag 
both embarrassing and insulting.
These feelings stem not from the flag’s 
historical association with the pro-slav­
ery South, but instead from the connota­
tions the flag has today. I know that in 
the past decade the Confederate flag has 
become somewhat fashionable, as did 
the Union Jack in the early 1980s, but I 
always wonder about people who bran­
dish it. What are they insinuating? Do 
they see it only as an item of fashion? Or 
do they, like the Klan, support some 
twisted view of the world for which the 
Confederate flag is a symbol?
And as a symbol of the Southern part of 
the country, I think the Confederate flag 
is an extremely poor choice. It is some­
thing which conjures up images of a
CMDS food sickens this student
Editor:
I will never eat in another UDS I sic I 
operated establishment again. Period. 
My reasons for this are simple and indis­
putable. My objections are not based on 
the level of the service, or the lack thereof, 
but on a more fundamental level. Simply 
put, the food in both the Tartan Grill and 
the Kiltie Cafeteria is horrible, disgust­
ing, and sickening.
First, the food lacks flavor, to say the 
least, especially at the Tartan Grill. Many 
times the food is undercooked, and liter­
ally tastes like rubber (yes, I have tasted 
rubber although not recently). The serv­
ings at the fixings bar, such as the toma- 
tos, look as if they have been aged like 
many fine cheeses are. Sliced tomatos 
are not supposed to be aged. I realize 
that freshness is hard to maintain, but
Roy Rogers seems to do it correctly.
More important than the taste is the 
effect the food has on the body. On 
numerous occasions after leaving a UDS 
establishment my stomach has turned 
queasy and in general I felt like throwing 
up, which I have done because of Kiltie 
food ( ifyou want specifics, please contact 
me directly). One meal in Kiltie left me 
sick for three days!
In summary, I hate UDS food and UDS 
hates me. Many times outside in the 
ReaL World, it takes a death to bring 
about change and reform. If college is 
supposed to be a model of the real world, 
I will not be that ultimate martyr who 
brings reform.
Brent J. Musser 
Freshman, MCS
backward, deeply prejudiced South mud 
in need of enlightenment. The Soutl 
does not need this, there are enough mis­
conceptions as it is. Recently Southen 
magazine questioned the representative 
qualities of this flag. Unfortunately I die 
not read this article so I can not presen 
their arguments. I do find it comfortinj 
that at least some Southerners are bring 
ing this important issue to the attention 
of others. I am also extremely glad that 
the North Carolina state flag makes nj 
graphic reference to the Confederate flag 
as the flags of some Southern states still 
do.
MiChelle (MiCh) Jones 
Junior, Professional/Creative 
Writing
8 am is a lousy, 
time for lecturc
Editor:
When the schedule of the classes fc 
the spring semester came out the oth$ 
day, a friend pointed out that the lectui* 
for 15-211 is scheduled for 8:00-9:20 am 
The Registrar claims this is not a typo 
Why has the CS department decided ti 
schedule classes at this time? We al 
know how difficult it is to make 8:3| 
exams, imagine what an 8:00 would b( 
like. Furthermore, with the popular 7:31 
exams, students taking 15-211 will no 
be able to go to lecture when the twi 
conflict.
It seems that“f;ree time” (read: time t'> 
do homework) is becoming scarce at this 
university. A Psychology course (85-417 
is scheduled to enter into the sacrei 
hours of 4:30-6:30. What is the use o 
these two hours, originally for use b] 
intramurals, and the exam hour at 7:3j 
when departments schedule classes 4 
these times anyway?
I urge all of you who wouldn’t want;» 
8:00 class scheduled for you to call up 
Dean Kail at x2479 and complain abou 
this indecency.
Eric Morton
Junior, Computer Engineering

---------------------------------------------------

The Tartan • Carnegie Mellon • 1 November 19887
Questions not asked at the debates
I am sad that there will be no 
flore presidential debates. The 
reason for this is that there are so 
many questions left unanswered, 
fhe panel members for the three 
lebates did what they could to 
draw the candidates out, but I 
believe they should have been 
tougher. Here are the questions I 
(pished they had posed to the 
lontenders;
•‘Sir, if you were a Gypsy moth, 
what kind of Gypsy moth would
ou be?”
Name the last threJe Dead Sea 
Scrolls you have read in the origi­
nal and why you would recom- 
niend them to every American
child?”
Do you believe a man on wel­
fare, who refuses to look for a job, 
entitled to a ZIP code?”
Ifyour wife were knocked down
a dark street, brutally kicked, 
and her purse snatched away from 
her, would you still pardon Ollie 
North?”
“Would you recommend three 
good restaurants in the Boston 
•ea to a convict who is going 
there on a weekend furlough?” 
“If you were a guacamole dip, 
hat kind ofguacamole dip would 
you be?”
“Do you believe that card-car-
ng members of the 
should lose their driving privi­
leges on federally-funded inter- 
,tate highways?”
Art Buchwald
“If someone took all the gar- 
n Boston Harbor and 
dumped it off the beaches of New 
Jersey, would the people of New 
Jersey consider this a cheap shot?” 
“Please give me the four dates 
on which the Japanese might have 
bombed Pearl Harbor?”
“If Sen. Bentsen gets elected, 
will those lobbyists who could not 
afford $10,000 for breakfast in 
his office be entitled to meet with 
him.for $5,000 in the Senate cafe­
teria?”
“If you were a Scotch-tape dis­
penser, what kind of Scotch-tape 
dispenser would you be?”
“Would you advocate the death 
penalty for any pregnant woman 
who does not believe in the right- 
to-life movement?”
“Governor, when you play base­
ball with a kid for TV cameras, do 
you ever put pine tar on your 
glove?”
“Mr. Vice President, do you 
think Mike Tyson and Robin 
Givens represent the family val­
ues you hold so dear?”
“Sen. Bentsen, if Dan Quayle is 
no Jack Kennedy, does that make 
ACLU ' Mrs. Quayle no Jackie Onassis?” 
“Sen. Quayle, if we refuse to 
embargo American wheat and sell 
it to the Russians, won’t they
become healthy and want to kill
us?”
“Governor, the polls indicate 
that the only way you can win the 
election now is to tell us how you 
made Massachusetts one of the 
great states in the Union. Are you 
prepared to break your vow of 
secrecy and tell us how you did 
it?”
“Sen. Quayle, would you agree 
to enroll in the Electoral College 
if you father made a large dona­
tion to the school?”
“Please tell us the names of all 
your heroes, and whether any of 
them have done TV commercials 
for Wheaties?”
“Do you think a gun is the best 
answer to poor grades in school?” 
“If you were President of the 
United States, and someone asked 
you to recite the Pledge of Alle­
giance to the flag, knowing what 
you know now, would you do it?” 
“If you were a Manhattan tele­
phone directory, what kind of 
telephone directory would you 
be?”
“If you were Vice President of 
the United States, and the Presi­
dent just had a meal on North­
west Airlines, what is the first 
thing you would do to restore 
confidence in the country?”
Art Buchwald is a syndicated 
columnist with the Los Angeles 
Times.
he Bush-Noriega-cocaine connection
The United States has the po­
tential to be a very positive force 
for good both at home and in the 
world. However in our zeal for 
Spreading democracy to the rest 
of the world, we sometimes end 
up compromising the very hon­
esty and democracy that is the 
hallmark of our government. We 
believe that citizens should be 
well-informed about our govern­
ment, so please read the -follow­
ing account of subversion of our 
democracy with a careful, open 
mind.
George Bush is head of the drug 
task force under the Reagan 
Administration. However, during 
the Vice President’s tenure in that 
iffice, the amount of cocaine en­
tering this country has tripled. 
)ne has to wonder why a man 
like Bush, with the vast resources 
of the Executive office, the DEA, 
nd the CIA, has not been able to 
:em the tide of drugs. Now, no- 
tody wants to believe that our 
overnment has been tolerating 
rug trafficking in our hemi- 
phere. But a close examination 
f the evidence indicates that 
lush and the CIA have not only 
ooked the other way when their 
Hies smuggled narcotics into the 
1, they have also supported such 
iperations. Consider:
In 1975theCIAblockedaDEA 
Ian to assassinate Noriega be- 
luse of his involvement in drug 
rafficking.
In 1976 Bush met with Nori- 
[a. As standard procedure, the 
IA briefed Bush about Noriega 
fore the meeting.
long as Noriega remained 
iful to the United States, the .
Latin American Forum
Peter Shell
Noriega became involved with 
the operation, allowing the U.S. 
to use his country’s airfields to 
train and supply the contras. 
According to Lew Archer, who was 
responsible for keeping General 
Noriega under surveillance, Nori­
ega soon began to use Black Eagle 
planes and pilots for running 
narcotics to the United States, on 
behalf of the Colombian Medellin 
drug cartel. Blandon, the former 
Panamanian chief of political 
intelligence, said that U.S. offi­
cials not only allowed this drug 
t-raffickingto continue, they made 
a deal with Noriega: one percent 
of the gross income from the drug 
flights was reserved for buying 
additional weapons for the con­
tras. They raised several million 
dollars this way.
Ramon Milian-Rodriguez was 
a money launderer for the 
Medellin cartel who at the same 
time carried U.S. funds to Latin 
American politicians for the CIA. 
He told CBS news and a Senate 
Foreign Relations subcommittee 
that he arranged to have $10 
million of Colombian drug money 
funnelled, to the contras |New- 
sday, June 28, 19871. The DEA 
estimates that the Medellin drug 
cartel is responsible for 80^ of 
the cocaine entering our country.
Milian testified that this money 
pipeline for the contras was ar­
ranged by an old friend and long­
time CIA veteran Felix Rodriguez.
with the U.S. Our government in­
dicted Noriega partly as punish­
ment for no longer allowing us to 
use Panama as a base for contra 
operations, and partly to make it 
look like they were fighting the 
war against drugs.
Bush has recently proposed to 
expand the CIA’s role in our 
nation’s drug interdiction system. 
However, the CIA’s bad habit of 
working with drug dealers is not 
going to be broken by a man who 
has worked with these drug deal­
ers himself. Our democratic sys­
tem of accountability and hon­
esty will not work if our 
government’s highest officials are 
allowed to secretly fund unpopu­
lar, destructive operations 
through illegal narcotics dealing.
Sources: Newsday, June 28, 
1987; The Iran-Contra Connec­
tion, 1987, Marshall, Scott and 
Hunter, published by The South 
End Press; The Pittsburgh Press, 
May 12, 1988; The Associated 
Press, Oct. 3, 1988; The Village 
Voice, Oct. 11,1988; Rolling Stone, 
November issue, 1988.
Peter Shell is on staff in the 
Computer Science Department 
and a member of Educational 
Action on Latin America.
Mid-semester grades provide inaccurate 
reflections of student performance
Last Tuesday, the 25th, was 
the last day to drop a class this 
semester. Sympathy, therefore, 
goes out to those poor folks who 
got less-than-wonderful grades 
on the exams your professors 
handed back on Thursday or 
Friday. I was one of you last 
year.
Why is the deadline to drop 
courses scheduled when it is? 
The student handbook states 
that “The last date to drop 
courses... is two weeks after 
mid-semester grades are due in
the Registrar’s Office.” ___
Presumably this date is 
chosen because student’s 
will have time to receive 
their midterm grades and 
make their decision to 
drop or not to drop based 
on this information.
This would be all well 
and good if the informa- 
tion received at midse­
mester were accurate. Unfortu­
nately, this is not the case. Many 
courses base their grades in a 
large part on the final exam 
grade. Others have two or three 
major tests and a final. In any 
case, the bulk of the student’s 
grade is determined after mid­
semester.
This means that when a stu­
dent receives mid-semester 
grades and has two weeks to 
determine whether or not to 
drop a course, he or she makes 
a decision without enough in­
formation.
To give an example, a student 
I know h ad a midsemester grade 
of an A in an economics course. 
The student decided to continue 
with the class based on this in­
formation (who wouldn’t?). 
Three days after the deadline 
for dropping the course passed, 
the student received the next 
test back — with a D as a grade. 
The student panicked, and tried 
to drop the course, but to no 
avail, it was past the deadline.
Obviously the problem here 
is a problem ofinformation. The
60 Coarse
Michael D. C. Drout
student did not have an accurate 
impression of how he or she was 
doing in the course. This problem 
cuts across departments, colleges, 
and grades. Students do not re­
ceive enough feedback on their 
performance in the course until it 
is too late.
There are two possible solu-
“Why not just let an R 
have the same effect on 
a QPA that a walk has 
on a batting average?”
tions. Easiest to implement would 
be to extend the period in which a 
student may drop a course. Ex­
tend it all the way to the end of 
finals.
Why not? Since my freshman 
year I have been under the im­
pression that R stood for “retake” 
and that there was actually no 
“failing” at CMU. While I could 
not find anything to this effect in 
the student handbook, it is still 
the only explanation I can find for 
calling an F an R.' So let us as­
sume that the popular interpre­
tation of R is accurate, and that R 
means “retake.” Then will some­
one please tell me why we have a 
deadline to drop classes at all? 
Why force someone to kill their 
QPA if the R really means retake? 
Why factor in the zero? Why not 
just let an R have the same effect 
on a QPA that a walk has on a 
batting average? The student will 
presumably be retaking the course 
anyway. This practice is common­
place at many other respected col­
leges (Brown, for one). Why not 
CMU?
The other solution is more diffi­
cult to implement, but seems to 
me to be a better choice: provide 
the students with more feed­
back on their performance in a 
course. There are several ways 
to do this, but the most simple 
is to abandon the practice of 
having a few monstrous exams 
each semester. Instead, have 
more and smaller exams. Hav­
ing smaller exams would elimi­
nate many all-nighters, relieve 
some of the pressure on stu­
dents (particularly freshmen) 
and give students a better gauge
__ of their performance
throughout the class. It 
would keep students from 
ever falling too far behind 
in their work and would 
kill two birds with one 
stone, because MCS pro- 
fessors could then hold 
their exams during 
classtime and would no 
longer need to force stu­
dents to get up at seven-thirty 
in the morning to face a long 
exam.
So why doesn’t the faculty 
implement this policy? Dump 
the huge exams and replace 
them with small and manage­
able exams that would keep the 
students informed, prevent 
them from falling behind in 
their work, and reduce the 
stress.associated with exams? I 
don’t know, and I wish I did. 
Could someone out there in 
faculty-land please enlighten 
me? Give me the Truth and the 
Word about the rationale be­
hind these exams? Or is this 
another example of a policy that 
everyone follows without know­
ing why, a policy with its pur­
pose hidden in the mists of time 
(like the stated purpose of the 
H&SS curriculum)? Someone, 
anyone, please tell me.
Michael D.C. Drout is a jun­
ior who wants nothing more 
than to be enlightened by the 
faculty. 60 Coarse is a grade of 
sandpaper with approximately 
60 particles per square inch.
What the college guides are missing...
If Stew could be Lisa Birnbach for a day...
Three stars socially, four books 
academically, and five dollar signs 
with an exclamation point cost- 
wise - that was my first introduc­
tion to Carnegie Mellon, seven 
years ago. One and a half pages in 
one of those college handbooks 
condensed into three USA Today- 
ish pictures.
It seems like everyone is rating 
the colleges today, Edmund Fiske 
of The New York Times, Barron’s,
Inquiring Minds
Stew Levine
HERBLOCK’S CARTOON
COUPLE OF REAL WINNERS*
would continue to tolerate -Rodriguez arranged the exact 
illegal activities. money “drops.” Rodriguez re-
the 1980s Noriega’s role in ceived assistance from Vice-Presi­
dent George Bush’s office, meet­
ing directly with Bush three times, 
apparently to discuss, in part, the 
contra effort. Bush’s defense that 
they didn’t talk directly about 
drugs at those meetings is hardly 
proof that he didn’t know about 
the drug running.
Jorge Krupnik, an Argentine 
arms dealer brought into the 
operation by Noriega, told Blan­
don that everything in the opera­
tion had the full backing of Bush 
and Gregg. According to Harari, 
Gregg passed on plenty of infor­
mation about the drug flights to 
Bush. Richard Brenneke, an 
Oregon-based arms dealer who 
brokered Black Eagle purchases 
in Czechoslovakia, says that he 
became disgusted after copilot- 
ing two narcotics flights but was 
told by Gregg not to question his 
orders.
Now it should be clear why the 
Reagan Administration didn’t in­
dict Noriega until 1987. By then, 
Noriega had stopped cooperating
drug world had escalated. In 
early 1980s he was permit- 
the formidable Medellin drug 
el to launder billions of del­
's through Panamanian banks, 
lain, the CIA and Bush had full 
lowledge of Noriega’s criminal 
îalings. As Vice President, Bush 
Reived National Security Coun- 
I briefings and was privy to in­
flation about Latin American 
rug smuggling as chairman of 
e Task Force on Combating 
I’rorism and the National Nar­
res Border Interdiction System. 
n fact, as incredible as it may 
°und, the CIA even started to 
Jse his drug dealings to fund their 
Iperations.
Operation Black Eagle was a 
teapons-smuggling operation to 
‘Hi the contras, circumventing 
'°ngressional restriction against 
Uch aid. Begun in 1982 and ac- 
ve for three years, this opera- 
¦on was overseen by both Bush 
nd his national security advisor 
°nald Gregg.
even The Yale Daily News has its 
Insider’s Guide to College. Unfor­
tunately, they all share the same 
trait-they’re all wrong. Maybe it 
all depends upon how much a 
college’s Admissions Department 
is willing to pay the publishers.
Look at one of those books now 
that you’re, here; it’ll make you 
wonder what school they’re talk­
ing about. For _______________
“What’s the stupidest 
thing people do [at 
CMU]?’’ “Either get­
ting up for free rolls or 
admitting that they go 
here...”
example, you 
can read all 
about that 
great place 
everyone 
hangs out at, 
you know,
Gray Matter, 
and read 
about how 
everyone 
loves to use 
computers here.
Some of the books though, are 
trying to be more accurate. A few 
days ago I received a question­
naire from Lisa Birnbach’s Col­
lege Guide. It seems they think 
that I can tell them all about 
Carnegie Mellon, in 117 questions 
and 14 pages.
Filling out the survey is quite a 
chore, they ask you to take it 
seriously, but to have fun while 
you do it. With that in mind, let 
me share with you a few of my 
answers to the questions.
Q: “How significant a role does 
the student body government play 
on your campus?”
A: After they waste two meet­
ings debating City of Pittsburgh 
policy, they hand out money to 
virtually any group that wants 
some.
Q: “What do liberal arts stu­
dents take to fulfill their science 
requirements?”
A: The ultimate sacrifice; dat­
ing physics majors for three 
months.
Q: “How would you describe 
students’ sexual habits?”
A: Either every night or not at 
all.
Their questions were OK, but 
they really don’t explain what it’s 
like to go to CMU. I’d ask ques­
tions like these:
Q: “What’s the stupidest thing 
people do?”
A: A tossup. Either getting up 
for free rolls or admitting they go 
here to outsiders.
________________ Q: “How
competitive 
are classes?” 
A: Students 
do work to­
gether, it’s 
the faculty 
that’s out to 
get them.
Q: “How
good are your 
professors?” 
A: I don’t 
know, I haven’thad one that spoke 
English yet.
Q: “Is your school’s location an 
asset or liability?”
A: We’re in Pittsburgh, ’nuff 
said.
Q: “What do you do with your 
free time?”
A: Free time, what free time? 
The only problem with these 
questions is, of course, that once 
we become honest in describing 
the schools, students will know 
what it’s like before they get here. 
And I dare say no one in Warner 
Hall wants that.
Anyway, I’m sending my ques­
tionnaire in tomorrow, although 1 
still don’t know how to answer “Is 
there a cult figure on campus?” I 
don’t know if David Letterman 
counts.
Stew Levine is a first-year GSIA 
student and a Contributing Edi­
tor to The Tartan.

---------------------------------------------------

The Tartan • Carnegie Mellon • 1 November 1988
Bush tougher on crime than DukakisHERBLOCK’S CARTOON
Editor:
In Chuck Jainchill’s article 
I “Crime and Punishment,” 10/25], 
he states that George Bush is 
using the death penalty issue to 
help his “dewimpificatipn,” but 
for as long as I have followed 
George Bush’s career, he has been 
a strong supporter of the death 
penalty. He does this not to play 
“on the paranoia of the American 
people” but because he believes 
as I do that there should be capi­
tal punishment for capital crimes. 
The difficult question is'not should 
we have a death penalty, but who 
should receive the death penalty. 
Do we sentence all first-degree 
murderers to death or only those 
who not only killed their victims 
in a premeditated style but also 
tortured their victims? I say that 
we should apply the death pen­
alty across the board. If you kill, 
you should be killed. Some say 
the death penalty is not a deter­
rent to crime, but after an execu­
tion there is certainly one less 
violent member in society.
I also believe vve should execute 
traitors such as those who gave 
secrets to the Russians in ex­
change for sex. I don't care if they 
were lonely Marines. Betraying 
your country is no way to satisfy 
your libido. It is justifiable for our 
government to put someone to 
death for a crime they have com-
Letters to the Editor
mitted. Mr. Jainchill asks, “For 
the more religious to take away 
the gift of life, should we leave 
that to a higher authority?” For 
those in the Judeo-Christian tra­
dition there is ample evidence 
from the writings (i.e. the Torah, 
New Testament, etc.) that God 
condones the use of the death 
penalty. Capital offenses include 
murder(Gen.9:6),kidnapping(Ex 
21:16), death by negligence (Ex 
21:28, 29), smiting or cursing a 
parent (Ex 31:14), idolatry (Lev 
20:1-5), sorcery (Ex 22:18), false 
prophecy (Deut 18:20), blasphemy 
(Lev 24:15, 16), Sabbath profan­
ing (Ex 31:14), adultery (Lev 
20:10), rape (Deut 22:23-27), ante- 
connubial immorality (premari­
tal sex) with both parties con- 
senting(Lev20:ll, 12,14). I think 
that’s enough to make my point.
Mr. Jainchill states, “Mr. 
Dukakis is in favor of certain 
measures which would keep guns 
out of the hands of known crimi­
nals as well as the mentally and 
emotionally handicapped.” The 
above statement is true, but Mr. 
Dukakis has also stated that the 
only people he believes should 
have guns are the military and
the police. I am a firm believer 
that most people in society should 
have the right to have a weapon 
either for self-defense or sport.
Mr. Jainchill talks about the 
lies and deceitfulness of the 
George Bush campaign. Just the 
other night on television I saw the 
latest Mike Dukakis commercial. 
In it pictures were shown of a 
rape and murder victim. The 
perpetrator of the crime was a 
convicted drug dealer (not a 
murderer before as Willie Horton 
was) who was staying in a half­
way house which George Bush 
supported. If this is not malicious 
and deceitful campaigning then I 
don’t know what is. The recent 
strengthening of the furlough 
program was brought about be­
cause the State House showed to 
Dukakis that they had the votes 
to override his veto, so in defeat 
he reluctantly signed the bill.
Yes, Mr. Dukakis has increased 
the budget for law enforcement, 
but then again he has raised the 
budget for just about everything 
else too. This campaign rhetoric 
isn’t fooling the public. The latest 
WSJ/NBC News poll shows vot­
ers by 56r/( to 21r/( believe Mr. 
Bush would be tougher on crime. 
I think the people are right.
Steve Brown 
Junior, EE
'•YOU CAN TRUST 6EORGE-HES 
COMPLETELY INSINCERE"
Confederate flag still racist to some
Editor:
Graham Potter does injustice 
to his main point, tjiat the Con­
federate flag has different mean­
ings to different people, because 
his argument is riddled with in­
accuracies and contradictions. He 
says that when Southerners use 
the Confederate Stars and Bars, 
they symbolize their love for the 
fallen nation of the South and its 
laid-back lifestyle, not the en­
slavement of several million Afro- 
Americans. He would be, at least 
in public, less comfortable apply­
ing the same logic to the battle 
flag of the German Wehrmact; 
undoubtedly many German sol­
diers were not anti-Semitic, after 
all, many of their best friends 
were Jewish.
He argues that since many 
Southerners hated slavery, but 
fought on the Southern side of the 
Civil War (or War of Yankee 
Aggression), they were not rac­
ists but nationalists. I think it is 
safe to say that nearly all the 
whites on both sides were racist. 
Many northern whites feared the 
power of Southern slave owners, 
but hated blacks. Black troops 
fought in segregated units in the 
Union army and received lower 
wages than whites. Many South­
erners were both anti-slavery and 
anti-black. No doubt, even the 
secular saint of the South, Robert
E. Lee, would have objected if a 
black had the effrontery to come 
to his front porch.
While this flag has been put to 
diverse purposes since the 1860s, 
its role as the symbol of Southern 
citizenry is worth exploring. Many 
states’ flags from the South in­
clude the Stars and Bars as an 
official symbol for their state — 
and as a shared symbol for its 
citizenry. The question, crudely 
put, was did they use this flag as 
a symbol of their ethnicity, to spite 
the North, or to proclaim the South 
a ‘white man’s country’?
At least in the case of Georgia, 
this decision was not made to defy 
the North immediately after the 
war. No, Georgia didn’t rub salt 
in the wounds of Northerners or 
Southern blacks in the initial 
postbellum period. Georgia’s de­
cision did not come when blacks 
were lynched, then disenfran­
chised and finally made to accept 
legal second-class status in the 
1890s. No, Jim Crow did not ini­
tially fly the Stars and Bars on 
Georgia’s state flag. Although 
Northern capitalists had system­
atically exploited the abundant 
natural resources of the South 
from the 1870s on, Georgia did 
adopt this flag until the 1950s. 
Not'until after the Supreme Court 
told the nation in their 1954 rul­
ing that desegregation must end
was this symbol officially resur­
rected. Georgia’s lawmakers chose 
to symbolically exclude blacks 
from being Georgians by deliber­
ately chosing a flag they knew 
would humiliate and frustrate 
blacks.
Potter himself also implicitly 
excludes blacks from their own 
Southern heritage. “I am proud to 
be a Southerner, just as the black 
students on campus are proud to 
be black. There is no need for 
these two ethnic groups to be at 
odds with each other...” He talks 
about Southerners and blacks — 
but not Southern blacks. That’s 
too bad, because one outstanding 
trait of Southerners, white and 
black, is their hospitality and 
generosity. Certainly Afro-Ameri­
cans have been in the South long 
enough to be treated as South­
erners, and to share common 
symbols with whites. Instead of 
narrowly defining who is a South­
erner, I’d say: “Come on, the war’s 
over, it ain’t a white man’s coun­
try no more. Hell, there’s room 
enough for us all to share the 
Southern heritage.”
Rename the buggy (Rebel Yell) 
the Biscuits and Gravy. That’ll 
give the damn Yankees heart­
burn.
John Hinshaw 
History, Grad Student
SDC Food Committee can 
handle CMDS complaints
Editor:
The Focus section of The Tartan 
addressed the issue of Carnegie 
Mellon Dining Service’s (CMDS) 
lack of service [“Carnegie Mellon 
Dining Service,” 10/4|. Undoubta- 
bly, the editorial expressed some 
valid points, however, I question 
the content of said editorial, par­
ticularly the style with which it 
was presented to the students.
Needless to say, CMDS has 
problems, as do most large scale 
operations which aim to please a 
large number of people with var­
ied tastes. Note that I do not seek 
to make excuses but to ask that 
students be understanding of why 
the problems exist and attempt to 
correct the problems through the 
proper channels. Of course, the 
editorial’s straightforward pres­
entation managed to jar people 
into attention, but the same re­
sult could have been achieved with 
a little more style.
So as not to repeat the points 
made in the |letters to the Editor] 
of the Oct. 18 issue of The Tartan 
by James Gurley, Director of 
Dining Service, and Brock Or­
gan, a worker at Kiltie, let me 
state briefly that the problem may 
be that students simply do not
know where to go with their 
comments or suggestions. The 
Student Dormitory Council’s Food 
Committee has the responsibility 
of dealing with the very problems 
cited in the Oct. 4 article as well 
as with any other problem con­
cerning CMDS. The Food Com­
mittee can be reached by either 
leaving a message personally at 
the SDC office (Skibo room 55) or 
by calling the SDC office and 
leaving a message (x2114). The 
committee’s access to CMDS’s 
managers and operations make it 
an ideal method of addressing the 
concerns students may have about 
CMDS. Also, students should be 
aware that every manager is will­
ing to listen to his or her com­
ments or suggestions.
Hopefully, this letter presents 
alternatives to addressing Din­
ing Service’s problems and will 
result in a better handling of such 
matters. As far as the writers of 
the editorial are concerned, I hope 
that they will respect a little more 
the people they comment on and 
try to solve problems in an effec­
tive, less offensive manner.
Erick N. Mizrahi 
Chairman, SDC Food Comm.
SEI protest a “breath 
of fresh air” for CMU
Editor:
I'm responding to the recent 
publicity concerning the pro- 
I: testing of SEI (Software Engj- 
j neer Institute) by'individuals 
i led by Vincent Eirine. Such 
j activity is a breath of fresh air 
j and a surprise upon returning 
to CMU. I anticipated among 
the student body the usual lull 
of apathy concerning broader 
issues affecting society other 
than money and materialism. 
Instead I was met with an 
undercurrent of activism stir­
ring on campus. On the surface 
apathy seems to maintain an 
upper hand, but a seed of posi­
tive wisdom has been planted 
and can only foster further 
awareness.
Due to the positive example 
of some wonderful people, I 
became active in an organiza­
tion last summer called "Be­
yond War.” It’s an international 
and educational non-profit foun­
dation working since 1982 to 
communicate the need for na­
tions to end war and build global 
partnerships, thus ensuring a 
secure future for humanity. The 
reasons for my involvement 
were simply to re-kindle hope 
in a seemingly cynical society. 
I’m learning to take notice of 
positive events and endeavors 
throughout the world. It’s too 
easy to be pessimistic.
I commend Vincent and any 
individual or group who works 
towards educating and enhanc­
ing humanity by responsibly 
confronting wrongs of society 
and introducing new ways of 
thinking towards peaceful 
methods of resolving conflict.
Tanya Fletcher 
Junior, Art
Definition of life needed for abortion debate
abortion • death penalty • 
Financial Aid • Regi«| 
parking • fraternities I 
racism • gay rights 
Wars • Lyndon LaRouffl 
Election ’88 • Senate
Election '88 • Senate • CMDS • Warner Hall • Admission* 
(ition • Physical Plant • University Center • Constructor 
* exams commencemen 
¦g^|3gfcB*H>BPM>^^^e^areh • DoD ° SEI • Stai 
' ^mmWWgre^C^^iMWl ^abortion • death penalty 
1 CMDS # Warner Hall • Admissions • Financial Aid
Registration • Physical Plant • University Center • Construction • parking 
Vaternities • Sonne Carnival • facultv • classes • exams • commencement • racisn
Letters to the Editor «The Tartan «Skibo Info Desk
Editor:
I would like to respond to Jeff 
Fartro’s....letter |-“Letter ignores 
issue of fetaV'rights,” 10/251. Fartro 
says that in pointing out his sin­
ister use of language in'the;.piece 
“Fetal Dilemma.” 110/111,1 have 
“resortledl to the lowest form of 
criticism possible — criticism of 
I his 1 style.” He also asks: “Are the 
editorial pages really the place to 
air objections of this nature? How 
can somebody base an argument 
about abortion on something as 
comparatively trivial as language 
selection ?"
If what Fartro says here is true, 
then everyone in the English 
department of which he is a part 
spends a great deal of time engag­
ing in “the lowest form of criti­
cism possible.” If questions of 
language are trivial for argument, 
the .we’d better throw out our 
rhetoric program, our Literary 
and Cultural Studies program, 
and our professional writing pro­
grams, along with all work on 
rhetoric as a social force from 
Aristotle to the present day.
The more insidious implications 
of Fartro’s response is that all I 
have done is to point out gram­
matical errors. Rather, I have 
shown how his words serve to 
label ideas of individual liberty as 
thin and false, to betray his own 
evasive motives in wanting to
control women’s bodies, to obscure 
the identity of the potential agents 
of denial of women’s right to 
choice, and to make women sound 
like passive victims of abortion. 
To uncover such disturbing im­
plications is hardly nitpicking. 
And yes, the editorial page is a 
great place to air observations of 
this nature.
Fartro fails to mention that two 
other women also responded to 
his piece, and took up where I left 
off: at responding to his argu­
ment that abortion is a matter of 
definitions rather than a ques­
tion ofindividual liberty, and that 
he has these definitions in hand. 
I share Amy Stevenson’s objec­
tion to the use of collections of 
data about “when a fetus devel­
ops brain waves and toes” in pin­
pointing a moment when tissue 
becomes human. We haven’t — 
and certainly Fartro hasn’t — 
even adequately defined “human.” 
Definitions that appeal solely to 
physiology are hard put to make 
distinctions between fetuses and 
animals; definitions that appeal 
to the religious beliefs about the 
soul cannot be used as the basis 
for legislation.
I also share Susan Olson’s be­
lief that — within the dominant 
American cultural and theologi­
cal frame of reference (our defini­
tion of “human”) — having an
abortion probably does mean 
taking a human life. Like deci­
sions about euthanasia or capital 
punishment — instances where 
killing a person is weighted 
against benefits to other people 
and/or to that person — the deci­
sion about abortion is, to quote 
Olson, “a difficult bioethical and 
moral” one. Deciding about abor­
tion involves weighing the life of a 
grown, thinking woman against 
the life of a fetus that may or may 
not yet have a central nervous 
system, but that is nevertheless 
potentially a person. Because the 
question is so difficult, because it 
is most often and perhaps most 
adequately answered in theologi­
cal terms, and because it so inti­
mately involves the fate of a 
woman’s body and the direction 
of her life, it should not be an­
swered by the U.S. Supreme 
Court; it should be answered by 
the woman at stake.
As for Fartro’s charming little 
description of an abortion, I could 
deliver a description of a caesar­
ian section or open-heart surgery 
that would gross us all out even 
more. It would prove nothing 
about the morality of those prac­
tices.
Anne-Marie Harvey 
Senior, English
7
Death penalty 
stance killing 
Dukakis
Every time Michael Dukakis 
talks about his opposition to tlie 
death penalty, audience agrei 
ment bottoms out. His position^ 
the capital punishment issue rri^ 
just be what kills him on Noven^ 
ber 8.
Jeff Fartro
This is just one more issue tfiaf 
shows how out of step he is wrtS 
the American majority. But th£ 
time, he is grossly out of step.
A solid majority—over 75<7r-=fifi 
Americans favor the death pen­
alty. Even many liberals like Ned 
York mayor Ed Koch argue for 
capital punishment.
Law abiding citizens want to| 
see dangerous murders perma­
nently removed from society—not 
furloughed. If a person willfully 
takes another’s life, then their 
life must be taken. Capital pun­
ishment guarantees that we will 
not have a problem with repea- 
offenders.
Unlike the abortion issue. Mr. 
Dukakis can’t hide his position on 
the death penalty behind a smoke 
screen of “freedom” and “indivifr 
ual rights.” What could he say.?;
Maybe he would try something 
like this: “I don’t favor the death 
penalty. I don’t think it’s a good 
thing. I don’t think most people 
do. The question is, who makes 
the decision. And I think it has tq 
be the convicted murderer in tht 
exercise of his own conscience and 
religious beliefs that makes that 
decision.”
No, that wouldn’t work verj 
well. A convicted murder might 
actually decide that he does de­
serve to die for his terrible crime. 
We couldn’t allow that. Let’s kee[ 
him alive no matter what punish 
ment he really wants, right?
Consequently, Mr. Dukafti 
must simply state his position 
“I’m opposed to the death pen 
alty,” and hope not many peopli 
take note until he quickly follow 
with the statement “And my stats 
still has one of the lowest murde 
rates of any industrialized stati 
in the country.”
He fails to mention that mos 
other industrialized states don’ 
have the death penalty eithei 
The few that do have it don’t earn 
out many executions. They le 
their death row convicts remai: 
there for years, their punishmen 
stopped by endless red tape am 
court appeals.
Therefore one can argue tha 
we need a faster execution proi 
ess so that the death penalty wi 
provide its natural deterrence t 
violent crime. If other industria 
ized states swiftly executed thei 
death row criminals, they woul 
have lower crime rates tha 
Massachusetts — at least thaljj 
what the statistics tell us
The capital punishment issffl 
is one on which people can dead] 
agree or disagree with eithi 
Presidential candidate. Thei 
little to cloud this issue — they’ll 
either for it or against it. So lj 
does give a person who is othei 
wise undecided about who to vol 
for one clear issue to make th< 
decision. Fortunately, many 
deciding against Mr. Dukakis,-s® 
his opposition to capital punisl 
ment may just keep him outofthj
White House.Put jails 
where they 
belong
Editor:
I would like to point out 
error in the last issue of T( 
Tartan. There was a reference«) 
the front page of the paper to 
inmate staying at the State Coi 
rectional Institution in Huntin 
ton (“Murder victim’s mothersu 
CMU, DTD,” 10/251. There is 
such institution. It exists in Hut 
ingrfon.
Tom Hoffman 
Sophomore, Writing 
A former Huntingdonian

---------------------------------------------------

DIVERSIONS
2 hits the silver screen
iy STEPHANIE REEDY
fartan Staffwriter
U2, the critically acclaimed and immensely popu- 
ar rock band from Dublin, Ireland, will release its 
rst motion picture this Friday, November 4th; U2 
\attle and Hum is a concert film that not only 
¡hows the band onstage, but behind the scenes as 
ell. Both the album and the film U2 Rattle and 
ijiih contain live concert performances from the 
Joshua Tree” tour, as well as original studio re- 
dings they have made since “The Joshua Tree.” 
¦The film, directed by 26 year-old Phil Joanou and 
Ifixluced by Michael Hamlyn of Midnight Films 
producer of the band’s award-winning videos), 
combine live concert footage filmed in stadi- 
ims all over the U.S. as well as studio recording 
¡essions, U2’s visit to Elvis Presley’s Graceland 
¡¡state and a scene filmed in Harlem, in which U2 
md some young gospel singers join in singing a 
¡ospel version of “I Still Haven’t Found What I’m 
,ooking For.”
Phil Joanou was chosen by U2 to direct the film 
lecause of his creativity and willingness to work 
i’ith the band to make U2 Rattle and Hum their 
my. Joanou used the collaboration of over 150 
flinmakers throughouttheU.S. to create U2Rattle 
:nd Hum, including Jordan Cronenweth, who 
elped create Talking Heads’ Stop Making Sense. 
U2 formed in Dublin in 1978, and got their start 
laying in various clubs around the city. The band 
as become increasingly popular world-wide, from 
le release of their first album “Boy” to their sixth 
bum “The Joshua Tree” released in 1987, which 
ild over 13 million copies throughout the Vvestern 
orld. U2 is known for their participation in sev- 
ral Amnesty International concerts and func- 
ons, and their concert tour for “The Joshua Tree” 
Id out to stadium crowds throughout the U.S., 
anada, and Europe, generating nearly $53 mil- 
m in concert grosses.
When asked why they wanted to make a movie, 
lie Edge, U2’s guitarist, explained, “We want our 
idience to hear how we work and how we create 
it songs.. .and our emotional commitment to the 
usic we play.” U2 Rattle and Hum attempts to do 
Stthat, as it shows the audience the band offstage, 
l®ay from the lights and the crowds, as them- 
Ives.
ill-9 RATTLE AND HUM opens this Friday at the 
fig's Court in Oakland.
.¡Jt: The Edge is illuminated in U2 Rattle And Hum. Inset: 
i, lead singer of U2.
photos by Anton Corbijn. Colm Henry/Paramount Pictures
iteflennon seen in a new light in Imagine: John Lennon
I VANDERHEYDEN
‘idI to The Tartan
*i'd to imagine anyone having been 
!od more than Beatle and psychedelic 
tar John Len non; stage performances, 
tests, kitchen business; and even sex 
recorded for...a project like this, 
nniakers Andrew Solt and David L. 
Per have culled over 200 hours of 
footage to produce Imagine: John 
Hon. The film is narrated by Lennon 
self from interview tapes.
Hugine follows Lennon from boyhood 
^fortunately [my mother! was run 
by an off-duty policeman...”), past 
Lv club dates, through the rush of 
'tlemania. John’s quip about being 
*er than Jesus Christ provokes, for 
-a,ice, a Ku Klux Klan Ackroyd look- 
,e to make a few veiled threats for the 
e*'ican viewing audience. As the Four 
p through the ’60’s, delvinginto drugs 
•Musical surrealism, John leaves his 
ties and clings to his Ono. The cam- 
captures daily household life, the
numerous “Bed-Ins,” and studio sessions.
Interspersed with film footage are 
interviews with Lennon supporting cast 
members. Julian Lennon is a diluted 
John redone by Vogue, Sean Ono Lennon
a shy scholar who ransacked Michael 
Jackson’s jacket closet. For once, Yoko 
leaves the (expletive deleted) wrap­
around sunglasses at home, looking in 
her interview like the stately widow of a
photo by Nishi Fumiya Saimaru/courtesy Warner Bros. 
John and his son Sean Ono Lennon in their New York apartment as seen in the Warner 
Brothers presentation Imagine: John Lennon.
deposed East Asian dictator. Beatles 
producer George Martin recalls the Four 
sneaking away from him like schoolkids 
to do drugs. Disappointedly, the other 
Beatles are not interviewed, nor do they 
figure prominently in the film. Cynthia 
Lennon looks like somebody’s mom.
The Lennon sense of humor really 
comes outin the film, from John’s snappy 
interview comebacks to eyebrow wig­
gling that says, “You and I know what’s 
going on, boyo.” As his commitment to 
peace and use of media exposure deep­
ened, he more and more seemed to relish 
his role as clown for the world.
Contrasted with his perspective are 
drug agents, conservative society mem­
bers, and the Ku Klux Klan, as well as 
the screaming crowds and seekers who 
took him for more than a man. In one of 
the best clips, John talks to a man who 
takes his songs for oracular pronounce­
ments: “I’m just a guy. man, who writes 
songs. We can only say hello and what 
else is there?”
Wolper and Solt make Imagine an easy
and entertaining film to watch. The 
combination of tight editing and narra­
tion eliminate boring or hazy spots. The 
wideness of Beatlemania narrows to the 
apartment days in New York before 
Lennon’s life is cut brutally short. The 
well-chosen soundtrack adds another 
dimension in emotive information (my 
favorite track in the film: Lennon’s cover 
of “Stand By Me”).
The film lets the viewer decide whether 
Yoko was a part of John, or an evil 
Georgia O’Keefe on manipulation pills. 
Included is footage of Lennon making 
love to a strangely stiffYoko. John takes 
her word over Phil Spector’s when re­
cording a litany to her, “Oh, Yoko”. Toi 
her credit, Ono voluntarily relinquished 
control of any sort over the project when 
she released her personal film footage to 
Wolper and Solt.
Imagine: John Lennon relays the, 
images and the sounds and lets the viewer» 
make his own decisions. As such it is an 
entertaining and high-quality look into 
the life of a one-of-a-kind man.

---------------------------------------------------

10The Tartan • Carnegie Mellon • 1 November 1988
Pitt begins ' 
drama season
By MICHAEL SCHWARTZ
Tartan Staffwriter
The 1988-89 Pitt Theater sea­
son continues this week with The 
Cherry Orchard, directed by W. 
Stephen (Alex) Coleman. The 
play, which is running from now 
until November 12, kicked off the 
Stephen Foster Theatre season 
with its premiere on October 22.
The Cherry Orchard was writ- 
ten'by Anton Chekhov who died 
of consumption at the age of 44 
shortly after writing this last play. 
Despite its tragic elements, the 
play is more of a uniquely human 
depiction, reveal i ng every facet of 
the characters. It has been said 
that, “Only Shakespeare draws 
characters as vividly as Chekhov.”
Mavoureen Dwyer, a faculty 
member of Pitt’s Theatre Arts 
department, will play 
Ranyevskaya, the lead ofthe play. 
Her dogShaztie will make a cameo 
appearance as Charlotta, 
Ivonovna’s dog.
The Cherry Orchard, a mix of 
comedy and tragedy, centers 
around the destruction of Madame 
Ranyavskaya’s cherry orchard. 
She returns to her home to find it 
threatened by financial ruin but 
childishly clings to her dreams of 
returning to her old life in Paris.
Several other Pitt theatre vet­
erans will appear in the show. 
Ann Louise Bannon will play 
Varya and Amy Seifried appears 
as Anya. Rick Van Noy, an MFA 
candidate in directing, takes on 
the role of Gayev and Kenneth J. 
Roberts will play Lopakhin. Mi­
chael Dowd appears as Trofimov 
and Scott Denier is Simeonov- 
Pishchik.
W. Stephen Coleman, the di­
rector of the play, was the resi­
dent director for the Three Rivers 
Shakespeare F estival ( TRSF ) last 
season. As associate professor at 
Pitt, Coleman heads the MFA 
acting program and has directed 
several other University produc­
tions. He has staged over fifty 
plays during his career and has 
acted in numerous productions 
as well.
Subscriptions and the Pitt 
Theatre Pass are still available 
for the University of Pittsburgh 
Theatre’s 28th season. Discounts 
are available for senior citizens,
! Pitt students and faculty and local
• area college students.
All University Theatre produc­
tions begin at 8:00 pm Wednes­
day through Saturday and at 2:00 
pm on Sunday at the Stephen 
Foster Memorial Theatre and the 
; Studio Theatre. For more infor­
mation, call 624-PLAY ( 624- 
: 7529).
Ne wsFoco brings opera 
to Benedum Center
By JOSH RUBEN
Tartan Sports Editor
Contrary to popular beliefs, 
classical operas are not all de­
pressing, nor are they domi­
nated by just one or two leading 
characters. The Pittsburgh 
Opera’s production of La 
Boheme, which closed last Sun­
day at the Benedum, is such an 
opera that allows the audience 
to revel in the comedy of its 
settings and characters. The 
most striking element perform­
ance is the fact that this was an 
ensemble production. The au­
dience was treated to hear half 
a dozen wondrous voices, not 
just those of the leading man 
and woman.
From the first scene, Richard 
Leech as the poet Rodolfo es­
tablishes why he is such a highly 
prized tenor in the opera world. 
Even in the conversational pas­
sages, the sheer power and in­
tensity of Leech’s voice was 
evident. In his first aria, Ro­
dolfo sings of his love for his 
writing and poetry in such a 
way that he seduces not only 
Mimi (Rosario Andrade), but 
everyone in the audience. 
Leech’s seemingly effortless vo­
calization earned him the most 
enthusiastic ovation in curtain 
calls.
At first, Andrade’s Mimi was 
stale. The Mexican born so­
prano was a bit weak in her 
first aria, but after all, she did 
have to follow Leech. Once this 
initial scene was out of the way, 
she seemed to loosen up and 
gain the strength and energy 
required for a great perform­
ance.
Giacomo Puccini did not, how­
ever, write this opera to focus 
exclusively on two singers as 
Guiseppi Verdi did in his 
masterpiece, Aida. Before Ro­
dolfo meets Mimi, we see him 
interact with his other artist 
friends. Baritone Lenus Carlson 
as Marcello meshed perfectly 
with Leech; neither outweighed 
or overshadowed the other. The 
two really seemed to enjoy their 
scenes together as they coun­
tered and parodied one another 
with vitality.
The other two artists, Colline 
the philosopher and Schaunard 
the musician, round out this 
quartet of lovable paupers. 
David Pittsinger’s Colline bal­
anced out the group nicely and 
was superb in the final scene. 
As Colline remorses over the 
selling of his coat, Pittsinger’s 
style forces the audience to
sympathize over his loss as the 
ailing Mimi. Baritone Patryk 
Wroblewski was likewise su­
perb as Schaunard who is more 
the comedian of the group. His 
earlier antics serve to make 
the final scene all the more 
tragic when he, along with the 
rest of the ensemble, agonizes 
over Mimi’s death.
Far and away the most vi­
brant and convincing perform­
ance was done by Carolann 
Page as the flirty Mussetta. 
From the moment she breezes 
on stage clad in red velvet, 
Mussetta demands and re­
ceives all the attention from 
the characters on stage and 
from the audience.
Page’s talent was not just lim­
ited to her marvelous soprano 
voice, which was crystal clear 
even at the top of her range. 
Her grace and elegance on stage 
helped confirm Mussetta a 
brazen yet somewhat sophisti­
cated lady. The most indelible 
moment is when Mussetta 
flutters her foot (and leg) in 
front of her aristocratic escort 
claiming she needs a new shoe. 
Page’s voice whizzes and flut­
ters in harmony with her move­
ments which causes the audi­
ence to laugh and also marvel 
at her talent.
One interesting feature of 
this particular performance 
was the clear pronunciation of 
the Italian dialogue, which is 
often overlooked by American 
productions outside of New 
York. Such wonderful vocaliz­
ing only adds to the drama (and 
overall reality) of the story, 
especially in the arias and final 
scene. Ironically, the most dra­
matic moment comes when the 
performers stop singing and 
speak plainly. Marcello tells 
Rodolfo that Mimi has died, 
and the shock and horror in­
side the poet extends to the 
audience when he screams her 
name. The curtain falls slowly 
on the ensemble as Rodolfo 
clutches his beloved Mimi, call­
ing her name in sorrow. This is 
truly one of the most searing 
images in all of opera.
Technically, the show was 
very well done. The sets were 
simple yet complete enough so 
that the true tone of Paris in 
1830 was conveyed well. How­
ever, this was not a visual play; 
there was no need for elaborate 
sets or costumes (once again in 
contrast to Aida). This opera 
made the characters and their 
story the center of attention; 
this opera starred itself.
Would you give 
80 bucks to a 
complete stranger??
Chances are, you wouldn’t. Yet you pay eighty 
dollars a year in Student Activities Fees to fund 
clubs and activities which you may know 
nothing about. So, now’s your chance...
Attend the first ever
“Where does your $80 go?” Thursday, November 3 7:30 pm Skibo Room 12
Punchline rates a chuckle
By MICHAEL SCHWARTZ
Tartan Staffwriter
The Columbia Pictures 
production Punchline, rated R, 
proves once again what a bril­
liant actor/comedian Tom Hanks 
really is. The film also stars the 
Academy Award-winning Sally 
Field. Punchline was co-produced 
by Daniel Melnick’s IndieProd
Company and Sally Field’s Fog- 
wood Films. It is currently being 
shown in theaters everywhere.
Sally Field plays Lilah Krytsick, 
a New Jersey housewife and 
mother of three by day and a 
struggling stand-up comic by 
night. At a New York club called 
The Gas Station, Lilah gets her 
chance to follow her dream of 
becoming a comedian. With the
help of Steven Gold, played b 
Tom Hanks, Lilah learns that thi 
best routines are based on one’ 
personal problems. To learn ti 
become a stand-up comic, she ha 
to overcome her inhibitions ai 
become intimately revealin'] 
about her struggles as a house 
wife and mother.
For Sally Field, the charactei 
continued on page a
r‘
John the Baptist loses his head
Right on the heels of an ex­
cellent production of La 
Boheme the Pittsburgh Op­
era begins its run of Richard 
Strauss’ Salome at the 
Benedum on Saturday, No­
vember 5 at 8 pm. The differ­
ences between La Boheme and 
Salome are a great study in 
contrast - for instance, Mimi 
dies quietly of consumption, 
but John the Baptist 
gets his head cut off. If 
you’re a fan of sex and 
violence, this is an 
opera for you. The run 
will continue the fol­
lowing week with per- I 
formances Tuesday L 
Nov. 8 at 7 pm and Fri­
day Nov. 11 at 8 pm. The 
Benedum box office number 
is 456-6666.
Schubert’s Symphony No. 9 
(the Great) and Mozart’s Pi­
ano Concerto No. 20 in D 
minor will be on the next Pitts­
burgh Symphony program 
this coming weekend. Jerzy 
Semkow, principal conductor 
of the Rochester Philharmonic 
will conduct and Czech-born 
pianist Rudolf Firkusny will 
be the soloist in the Mozart. 
Firkusny’s appearance is his 
15th with the orchestra and 
marks the 40th anniversary 
of the first, a concert in 1948
conducted by Fritz Reiner. His 
reputation as a consummate art­
ist extends back more than five 
decades and he has performed 
with many of the great conduc­
tors of the century, including 
Koussevitsky, Reiner, .Szell, 
Stokowski, and Bruno Walter. 
The concert will take place Fri­
day at 8:30 pm, Saturday at 8 pm 
and Sunday at 2:30 pm with a
Classical Outlook
pre-concert conversation (“An In­
troduction to the Orchestra”) one 
hour before the Sunday perform­
ance.
One of Pittsburgh’s less famous 
performing organizations, the 
Pittsburgh Camerata, will pres­
ent it’s first concert of the year, 
entitled “The Pilgrim Way: A 
Musical Journey,” at Sacred Heart 
Church, corner of Shady and 
Walnut, on Sunday November 6 
at 4 pm. The Camerata is an a 
cappella chamber choir of about 
two dozen singers under the di­
rection of Gayle Kirkwood, and 
performs sacred and secular 
works of all periods. This concert
will be a collection of music 
that could have been heard by 
medieval and renaissance pil­
grims atjourney’s end, includ-' 
ing stops in Spain, England, 
and Italy. For more informa­
tion call 661-6837.
Next week is the second of 
the Pittsburgh Chamber 
Society’s series, this time with 
the Los Angeles Piano Quar­
tet. The ensemble will 
play works of Mozart. 
Schumann and 
Dvorak Monday, No­
vember 7 at 8 pm at 
Carnegie Music Hall 
in Oakland. Student 
rate tickets are avail­
able and more infor­
mation is available at 624- 
4129.
Carnegie Mellon’s Opera1 
Workshop will present aif 
evening of opera scenes Sun­
day November 6 at 8 pm in' 
Alumni Concert Hall, College 
of Fine Arts. Act II of Mozart’s 
The Marriage of Figaro (in 
English) will be on the pro­
gram along with scenes from
II Pagliacci by Leoncavallo (in 
Italian) and Louise by Char­
pentier (in English). Perform­
ers include students of the 
music department. The per­
formance is free and open to 
the public.
Hal’s Pizza
683-2525 - Sunday - Thursday, 11:00 am to 1:00 am
Friday and Saturday, 11:00 am to 2:00 am
8 cut $4.50 plain with cheese 12 cut $5.50 plain with cheese
.75 ea. Topping $1.25 ea. Topping
TOPPINGS: Pepperoni Sausage Bacon
Mushrooms Green Olives Canadian Bacon
Onions Black Olives Ham
Green Peppers Ground Beef Anchovies
Artichokes Hot Peppers Pineapple
COUPON ""j ¡~ FREE LITRE
$.50 off large pizza. with any purchase between
No expiration date II am & 4 pm, Mon. - Fri.I_________________________________________I I________________________________________r
25 Min. Free Delivery or $1.00 off
Coming Soon — 
Another First at The Original...tr
Under 21 Dancing
at
The Top of the
"0"
Every Thursday night beginning 
November 3rd
• DJ with top 40's, Progressive & Classic Tracks • FREE Soft Drinks
• Pizza only 25c a slice • Hot Fun All Night
S5.00 cover charge at the door. Bar will be closed. No liquor or beer 
will be permitted or sold at The Top of the O on this night

---------------------------------------------------

The Tartan • Carnegie Mellon • 1 November 198811
enzied
msecutive
SEND TODAY FOR OUR CATALOG!
I Name______________________________:------------------------
| Address_______________________________________________________
City____________________State-----------------Zip---------j *tpo —
¦ SYRACUSE UNIVERSITY DIVISION OF INTERNATIONAL PROGRAMS ABROAD 
119 Euclid Avenue, Syracuse, New York 13244-4170 (315) 443-3471
Gimme an axe through the head!
John got so carried away with 
Buddha worship that he bought a 
live 400-pound Buddha — chosen 
for his resemblance to Rolling 
Stone magazine publisher Jann 
Wenner — and asked him to sit 
on Yoko.
Of course, there are also many 
things that were blown out of 
proportion about John’s life. For 
example, he only used heroin in 
social situations that required it, 
and he didn’t enjoy it that much. 
He would only shoot up twice a 
night if he was driving.
Other things, though, are 
harder to face. Yes, John did kick 
Ringo in the head, and that inci­
dent is what’s made Ringo every­
thing he is today.
There are also more important 
things in life, like this week’s 
movie, “Cheerleader Camp,” star­
ring two drive-in superstars, back 
after a long absence from the 
screen: Betsy Russell, whose two
enormous talents starred in “Pri­
vate School” and “Avenging An­
gel” before she weenied out on us 
in “Tomboy”; and Lucinda Dickey, 
the grinning-and-dance star of 
“Electric Boogaloo is Breakin’ 2” 
and the sword-happy queen of 
kung fu in “Revenge of 
the Ninja.” 9
Betsy and Lucinda rep- • 
resent the twin tragedies ® 
of being a teenager in the 
eighties. Betsy is pretty, 
popular, going steady 
with a hunk, and “one of 
the best cheerleaders in ® 
the state.” You’d think 
she’d be grateful. But she thinks 
there’s “something missing” in her 
life, and she dreams of suicide. 
Lucinda, her best friend, is 
doomed to life as the school mas­
cot, living out her miserable exis­
tence inside an alligator costume. 
If only they could be like Vickie 
Benson, who gets to call roll at the
cheerleader camp and have ani­
mal sex with the county sheriff 
whenever she feels like it.
Okay, enough plot. Who’s the 
psycho maniac and why is he kill­
ing cheerleaders with garden 
shears? Cause, you know what?
It’s all this bad PUBLICITY for 
the camp. And so, like, this one 
girl, they have to keep her in the 
cafeteria freezer for a few days so 
the parents won’t find out and 
send everyone home before the 
Queen Contest.
You know how when you go to a 
high school football game this
year, all the cheerleaders are 
doing a bunch of Indian sign-lan- 
guage squat-hiney elbow-slap­
ping? Well, if you hate that bull- 
stuff as much as I do, you will 
definitely enjoy what happens to 
the people in this movie.
We’re talking about 
some serious cheerleader 
meat. Nine dead bodies. 
No breasts (The dreaded 
bikini-only actress con­
tracts). Pom-pom wrist- 
slitting. Garden shear 
head-ramming. Ax in the 
stomach. That thing they 
do where the guys jack 
the girls up over their heads and 
hold em on the palm of their hand. 
Gratuitous spirit. (I hate spirit.) 
Bear-trap-to-the-head Fu.
Drive-In Academy Award nomi­
nations for Lucinda Dickey, as 
the troubled mascot gator, for 
saying “All she ever thinks about 
is getting honey on her muffin”;
; Joe Bob Goes j 
¡To The Drivern:
Who's afraid of th Big, Bad Bomb?
$9e
With Deb Bradv of
EXES
Friday, November 4 
9:30 pm -1:00 am 
Wherrett Room 
Skibo Hall, CMU
Cover Charge
Funded in part by YOUR student activities fee
Mellon
Study in one of S(J's 27 academic programs conducted in 
England, France, Italy, Spain, and other locations. Grants are 
available for a semester, a year, or a summer of study abroad.
fcnose while making
irv armpit noises. Pictured above is the entire plot of the movie Cheerleader Camp, if you know what
(tone point in his life we mean and we’re sure you do.
Vickie Benson, as the bitchy camp 
leader, for her “Why Suicide?” 
speech to the assembled campers 
and her inspired aardvarking with 
the sheriff; Buck Flower, as the 
creepy old wino hired hand, for 
saying “Look at that one in the 
black hair and the purple dress— 
when she jumps up and down, it 
looks like two pigs fighting in a 
gunny sack”; Travis McKenna, as 
$he fat kid that spies on all the 
bimbos with a video camera, for 
saying “My, don’t we have OUR 
undies in a bunch!”; Leif Garrett, 
as the tow-headed yell leader boy- 
friend-type, for taking the micro­
phone at the camp dance and 
saying “Just stay calm, but one of 
our girls has been murdered”; and 
John Quinn, the producer and 
director, for making the finest 
movie ever to be filmed in Bak­
ersfield.
Four stars. Joe Bob says check 
it out.
Study Abroad Through Syracuse University.
16 INCH
PEPPERONI PIZZA $4.99
+tax
Saturday 11 am - 2 am
Sunday through Friday 3 pm - 2 am
Last week I had a choice be­
tween watching “Imagine: John 
Lennon” or “Cheerleader Camp.” 
When will these movie compa­
nies learn NOT to put out every­
thing at the same time? I don’t 
have TEN BUCKS to be spending 
eVer week, I got to make a choice. 
But before I tell you about that 
bsychological dilemma, you may 
need to know a few shocking facts 
about the secret side of the man 
beloved by billions of people, the 
man who loved the vowel “o,” 
especially in a wife, and the man 
who always slept on his hair 
funny. For example, it’s known, 
that after an exhausting eight- 
year investigation, that he slept 
n nylon knee socks, he collected 
every episode of “Deputy Dawg,” 
and he had regular sex with Japa­
nese women. I know it may be 
hard to believe — after all, his 
lame was John and he wore 
rranny glasses and really bad tur- 
— but the man
ilso once used a Flair 
fe?n.
It’s time we started to 
ace up to the facts: John 
as a nerd.
I know this might not 
j a popular position to 
ike. I know there will 
ie scoffers and nay-say- 
But I have proof 
hat will be revealed' 
ery soon in a $59.95 
offee-table book full of 
ictures of barefoot 
ieople staring at the 
amera in rooms full of 
•hite furniture and 
iaiku poetry.
For example: For one 
year — 1977 — 
John did was play 
“Pong.” Several 
confirmed that 
one particular drug- 
night — April 
— he managed 18 
hours with- 
losing a single game 
more than three con- 
points tohisop- 
Shortly before 
hehadsched- 
a meeting with 
Wah Zin, who, of 
was the 24-year- 
nputer genius who 
time was develop- 
ofZelda.” If 
>hn had lived to
's drug of choice 
Chiclets, 
would mix with 
powder, set on 
through
BHEIRLEADER;
CAME
5168 PENN AVE.
Pkone: 363

---------------------------------------------------

12The Tartan • Carnegie Mellon • 1 November 1988
Scotch ’n’ Soda’s soao opera...
Theater comes to the Yard
By FEDERICO HATTOUM
Special to The Tartan
Starting on Wednesday, November 2,1988 in Scotland Yard at 
6:30 pm the world will be witness to one of the greatest dramatic 
masterpieces of our modern age. I am speaking, of course, about 
Scotch ‘n’ Soda’s newest theatrical venture: a three part soap 
opera entitled Les Misinformed, written by Frank Schurter, 
Federico Hattoum and Javier Grillo-Marxuach.
What exactly is Les Misinformed? To put it simply, it is: The 
Thrilling Story of Sex, Betrayal, Love, Betrayal and Sex in a Big- 
City Advertising Agency! What Big-City Advertising Agency? 
Well, the Hugo Advertising Agency, bien sûr! That is were the 
similarity between Les Misérables and Les Misinformed ends, 
though. We have no French Revolution, no Eponine, Fontine nor 
Brie; but we have more, so much more!
The uncommon cast of characters that work at the Hugo 
Advertising Agency include: publicity and thought process 
manager Sara Bellum (played by Cathie McAuliffe); copy and 
slogan man Clark Watcher (Nathan Loofbourrow); illustrator 
William Bord (Nick Harrigan); traffic manager Planestra Smith 
l Sidney Neill ); co-partner Tad Biffington ( Mick Sutter) as well as 
con-man extraordinaire Andy Bellum (Christopher Hirt). To 
spice up the action further, the characters of Andrea Doria 
(Carmel Lurito), first lady offish fashion and client of the Hugo 
Advertising Agency, Dr. Enigma Villmasteri Adam Walden), the 
mailman and henchman for Andrea Doria bent on movies, as well 
as our hyperactive announcer (Jim O’Connell), make incisive 
and opportune appearances.
Come prepared for power struggles, new love, back-stabbing 
spite, alien attacks, alter egos, plenty of sexual innuendo, and. of 
course, GIGANTIS the FIRE MONSTER. Sec you there.
Explore art at Forbes
By JULIETTE BORDA
Special to the Tartan
Jody Foster recalls a fourth 
grade memory of meeting Gen­
eral Westmoreland (of Vietnam 
fame) and shaking his hand. He 
remembers the frail flesh 
of Westmoreland’s hand.
Jody’s woodcut print 
titled, “The General” gives 
the viewer the same chill 
Foster probably experi­
enced upon meeting 
Westmoreland. The print 
depicts an ambiguously 
formed, yet grimly-expressioned 
character, holding a kitten: this 
potent juxtaposition is what Fos­
ter chose to convey to his viewers.
Another relief print of Jody’s 
that will be shown this week at 
the Forbes Gallery is titled “Im­
potence;” the image is of an ape 
spirit strangling a bird in his hand. 
Jody’s show will also include a 
print that was cut on a 5-foot 
board: a figure that at first looks 
human, but upon examination is 
found to be a baboon with a bro­
ken jaw. As he carved this piece, 
he found an imperfection in the 
wood’s surface, and used it to help
create his design: unbeknownst 
to the viewer, a breast in the print 
was actually printed from a knot 
in the wood. This 5 foot woodcut 
took about a month to execute.
Jody enjoys this medium (tech­
nically referred to as a relief)
because it is the most direct of all 
the print making processes. A 
piece of wood is cut, and only the 
convex areas print (remember 
potato prints when you were a 
kid?) - for Jody’s, just black ink is 
used. Jody says he enjoys the craft- 
like quality of carving and likens 
it to “picking hangnails.” His 
prints are very elaborate and dem­
onstrate a sense of integrity.
Jim Wei will show large oil 
paintings.
The opening reception for Jim 
and Jody’s show is tonight from 7- 
9 pm at the Forbes Gallery, 5200 
Forbes Avenue.
Punchline, get it?
continued from page 10
in Punchline appealed the most 
to her. She especially admired 
Lilah, the New Jersey house­
wife who was making a valiant 
effort to create something more 
of her life.
“I saw the potential for inter­
esting personalities interacting 
with each other in a fascinating 
arena. Lilah must renegotiate 
her life as she decides to make 
ch anges that affect not only her- 
self but everyone around her. 
What was important to me was 
that Lilah be culpable in the di­
lemma — not this poor, put- 
upon housewife, the victim. 
That would have been boring. I 
felt that Lilah had to become 
responsible, not only for mak­
ing the changes in her life, but 
for helping her family under­
stand why she needed to make 
these changes and include them 
in the process.”
Tom Hanks' plays Steven 
Gold, a med student who can’t 
stand blood, pain or the thought 
of dissecting anything and who 
lives only for the pleasure of 
performing comedy. By night
he is the toughest act to follow 
at The Gas Station. Everyone is; 
sure that he’ll go far but his ob-i 
session to be funny eventually! 
causes him to flunk out of med 
school.
Tom Hanks was attracted to 
Punchline because he thought 
that the script was an accurate 
attempt to portray the real life 
of stand-up comedians. To pre-, 
pare himself for the role. Hanks 
tried out his material in various! 
comedy clubs in New Yerk and1 
Los Angeles. He found the expe- 
rience to be very stressful.
“When you get up there for; 
what is supposed to be seven! 
minutes and run out of material,'! 
in two and a half, and you conf 
tinue thinking you can make' 
stuff up but you can’t get any 
laughs, it’s terrible. I think one 
of the most important things 1 
learned was how much it really 
hurts when you’re bad.”
Punchline is the story of striv­
ing for that moment in time 
when you are a star. It is about 
the thrill of being in front of an 
audience. The world of making 
people laugh isn’t always funny,
Business
Opportunities
Conference
November 10th 
Skibo Ballroom
10:30 am - 4:30 pm
Company representatives in business-related fields will 
be present to meet with students (all majors welcome). 
Sponsored by AIME
Association for Industrial Management and Economics
w/tPPty
The Association for Industrial Management and Economics and the Department 
of Industrial Management invites all Industrial Management and Economics 
majors along with all Carnegie Mellon students who are interested in a social 
Happy Hour on Wednesday, November 2 in Breed Hall Margaret Morrison 103 
at 4:30. There will be refreshments, socializing, and an informal discussion on 
Commercial and Investment Banking by Mary Cirillo, Vice President Of 
Citibank.
WEDNESDAY, NOVEMBER 2 4:30 PM
BREED HALL MARGARET MORRISON ROOM 103

---------------------------------------------------

The Tartan • Carnegie Mellon • 1 November 198813
THIS WEEK IN DH2210
Thursday, November 3 
Sammy and Rosie Get Laid
Huh? What? No, it’s not the Erotic Film Festival, 
ffanif Kureishi’s film is set in a strange and sinister 
London where the homeless live in a cardboard city 
under Royal Festival Hall. Rosie is British and 
Sammy is the son of a controversial politician from 
either India or Pakistan — the movie deliberately 
never says which. The father comes to visit, trying to 
relive the magic of his days of courting. As he is 
surrounded by gangs and the homeless roaming the 
streets, there seems to be little hope for the future of 
London, for in this city the value of real estate often 
exceeds that of humans lives and goals. In this 
world, Sammy and Rosie get laid—by each other, by 
various friends, and by the system itself.
At: 6, 8, 10 Rated R
Friday, November 4 
Ironweed
Movie superstars Jack Nicholson and Meryl Streep 
play alcoholics in this film by James Bruner and 
Chuck Norris. Nicholson is Francis Phelan, a man 
who dropped and killed his baby son years ago and 
is haunted by guilt. Streep is Helen, also an alcoholic 
and Nicholson’s only friend. She feels that she has 
let herself down because she does not realize that 
she cannot help being a drunk. The movie is not 
much on plot but Nicholson and Streep both have 
their moments. Watch for Nicholson in the grave­
yard scene at the beginning of the film and in the 
long stretch after he returns home. Streep’s best is in 
a confessional scene in a church where she tells the 
Virgin Mary that she is not an “alky” no matter what 
people say.
At: 6, 8:30, 11 Rated R
Saturday, November 5 
Three Men and a Baby
Drop everything and go see this movie! Tom 
Selleck, Steve Guttenberg and Ted Danson are three 
swinging bachelors until one day, the day after 
Selleck’s birthday party, they find a bassinet on the 
front doorstep of their apartment. Inside the bassi­
net is a baby girl named Mary, apparently fathered 
by Danson who has just left the apartment to spend 
ten weeks shooting a film in Turkey. Guttenberg and 
Selleck really make this film with their colorful 
antics in trying to take care of the little one. There is 
also a sub-plot involving a package of heroin that 
falls into the bachelors’ hands but the confrontation 
with the drug dealers is merely distracting. There’s 
enough domestic comedy to make the movie work 
despite these distractions. One question: Why did 
the mother leave Mary in the first place? Based on 
the French film Three Men and a Cradle.
At: 6, 8, 10, 12 Rated PG
Sunday, November 6
2001: A Space Odyssey
If you like special effects, this is one movie thatI
 you don’t want to miss. In this classic by Kubrick and 
Arthur C. Clarke, spaceships are perfect, imper­
sonal machines which venture from planet to planet.
¦ any humans are on board, they get there too, but 
lie achievement belongs to the machines. The film 
itarts with a group of apes who decide that it would 
!e really great if they could hit the members of 
mother group of apes over the head. This is how 
jumanity’s ancestors became tool-using beings — 
entients. Soon the action advances to the year 2001, 
'hen explorers on the moon find a monolith that 
|£ams signals to Jupiter. The mighty machines will 
lake them there, where they will eventually outgrow 
the machines and become like infants to a new stage 
•f development, much like apes becoming the first 
stages of man.
Editor’s Note: This seems very confusing, but in 
I Actuality that’s what the film is like. You want plot 
|darity, read the book.
At: 6, 8:30, 11 Rated PG
By MICHAEL SCHWARTZ[By MIC
Music today is iust too danë happy...
Commenting on lack of gothic rock
By DAN BIDWA
Tartan Staffwriter
The best, and only, contribution 
that Jane’s Addiction has ever 
made to the world in 
general is their album 
title “Nothing’s Shock­
ing.” The cover, a naked 
semi-Siamese twin 
woman/women with 
her/their hair on fire, 
isn’t. In poor taste, 
maybe; graphically dull, 
definitely, but not 
shocking. Neither is the band, 
despite their best attempts to be 
so.
In fact, very few bands are any­
more. Bauhaus might have been 
scary at some point, but not any 
more (aside from the fact that 
they don’t exist anymore - repu­
tations are rarely scary). Siouxie 
and the Banshees are doing vapid 
pop-gothic; Shriekback has wa­
tered their menace down to a tepid 
threat in their search for a hit; the 
Swans, gradually bleeding their 
threat through the nonabrasive 
sound of Skin, finally slit their 
own throat with their limp cover 
of “Love Will Tear Us Apart” this 
summer, and, despite all the blood 
and muck and fog and knives and 
theatrics, Skinny Puppy’s show 
last Thursday was scarier if you 
kept your eyes shut.
Even scarier than Skinny 
Puppy’s show was the opening 
band, Nine Inch Nail. Kinda like 
what A Flock of Seagulls would 
have sounded like if they had 
discovered gothic, if that makes
any sense.
Actually, it’s scarier than the 
previously flip comment implies. 
Used to be, the major labels 
wouldn’t touch anything like the
Music Music Music 
Ne 
Review
Cure or Joy Division or anything 
even remotely connected with 
death or suicide - big rock boys 
don’t cry, and they sure as hell 
don’t sing about it. However, the 
gothic horror thing is back in a big 
way, albeit with a bit less angst 
and a lot more gore. Megadeath 
sells, Slayer sells, and the Misfits 
are experiencing a huge revival - 
hell, slasher flicks are big; why 
not horrific tunes?
Ordinarily, this would be a good 
thing - as Lemmy of Motorhead 
said, more or less, “If it doesn’t 
upset your parents, it isn’t doing 
its job.” Unfortunately, popular­
ity translates to sales, and sales 
translates to hello major labels, 
and major labels have this annoy­
ing tendency to bowdlerize every­
thing they touch. ( How many good 
rap albums have you heard on 
major labels? How about reggae?) 
Expect anything different now? 
(First casualty so far: the godfa­
ther of punk-shock rock himself, 
Glenn Danzig, whose new album 
Danzig is watered-down warmed-
over schlock a la the worst of 
Black Sabbath and Kiss.) Shock­
ing? No. Scary. Yup. Better buckle 
down, cause it’s gonna get worse 
before it gets better...
Record of the Week: 
Keeping in line with the 
tone of this ramble, one 
of the best offspring of 
the new violence is 
Metallica’s Master of 
Puppets. Their new one, 
...And Justice For All, 
has been in the top ten 
ever since it was re­
leased, despite the fact that it 
receives almost no airplay, but 
it’s a tad self-indulgent, and not 
their best effort. Master of Pup­
pets is the album previous, and 
proves that metal doesn’t have to 
be brainless or boring.
Upcoming show that you should 
not miss: Bullet LaVolta at the 
Foundry, along with Afghan 
Whigs and Half Life. Real punk 
rock, folks, and cheap, too. Friday 
night, starting somewhere around 
8:00.
Other upcoming show that you 
should not miss, but might be­
cause of the ticket price: Mo­
torhead, the unwitting godfathers 
of thrash, playing before Slayer, 
and after Overkill and Necropo­
lis, at City Limits, the old skating 
rink that is made for shows like 
these - big, nothing to break, and 
the acoustics of a saucepan. Gonna 
be huge. Next Monday night, 
starting at 7:30. (If you have no 
idea how to get to City Limits, call 
DiCesare-Engler, and they’ll 
explain things better than I can.)
One more show that isn’t quite 
as imperative, but worthwhile 
none the less: My Dad Is Dead 
returns to Pittsburgh for a show 
at the Foundry. Hopefully he’ll be 
a bit more lively than his showing 
at the WRCT Dance, which was 
good, but mostly a cappella. Sat­
urday, the night after Bullet 
LaVolta, again starting around 
eight.
Dan Bidwa is a junior writing 
major with his whole life ahead of 
him.
Carnegie Mellon Drama 
PresentsJunior Rep.
This week:
Henrik Ibsen’s 
Hedda Gabier
Directed by 
Janice Dean
October 31 through 
November 2 
Monday at 8:30 pm 
Tuesday at 5 and 8:30 
pm
Wednesday at 6 pm 
In the Studio Theatre
j k/itk or withoutÿou /With of withoutpou. 
rfe, $haw a Diversions Staffi fit eating ok ftfondaif 
8pm in the- Tartan Ofâice,
k/itl Of (0/tk0U.t'CfOU
Future MIS/Corporate Executives
SHARE THE INSPIRATION.
I8 he rush of adrena­
l-1 line. The surge of excitement. The 
flash of inspira­tion. Familiar feelings to 
talented IS professionals 
at The Travelers. And to the promising graduates who'll join us this year.
You've discovered 
these feelings in your aca­demic work. Recognized them in the elegance of 
advanced technology.And now you can share in them at The 
Travelers, where the support is stronger, the environment more sophisticated and the applications 
more challenging.
As a distinguished college graduate 
with an Information Science-related 
background, you now have a difficult decision to make about your future. That's why we created ACCENT. A 
fast-paced, competitive program. Offering a comprehensive foundation 
in Information Systems concepts and 
practices, financial services concepts and principles of management — lead­ing to key professional positions.
All in one of the most advanced IS environments in the financial services 
industry — including the largest IMS 
shop, 14 IBM mainframes and a 30,000 terminal SNA network.
But our commitment to staying on the cutting edge of IS technology doesn't stop there. We've recently installed over 25,000 IBM PCs, inte­grated the latest 4th generation lan-
s, and we're leveloping our future 
leaders with ACCENT.If you have a degree 
in business, MIS or a 
related discipline, high academic achievement, 
exposure to hardware and software, and some pro­
gramming experience, 
you have the right cre­dentials for ACCENT.
If you're a highly- motivated person, an
independent worker, and an innova- 
¦ thinker, y 
try for ACCENT.
tive thinker, you have the right chemis-
Now make the right move. To The Travelers' ACCENT program. Where 
you'll find varied and valuable learning 
experiences. A supportive human environment and a sophisticated tech­
nical one. And where you'll find plenty of opportunities to help move vou 
ahead.You'll also receive a competitive sal­ary, complete benefits and even an IBM 
PS/2 to take home with vou. Plus gen­erous relocation assistance to our Hart­
ford, Connecticut home office.
So, if vou're a bright and talented IS-oriented graduate, join The Travelers. 
Where the accent is on vou and 
the inspiration shared bv all.Sign up bv November 1st to inter­
view with a Travelers' recruiter on 
December 2nd. Or, send vour resume 
to: Gail Greenier, The Travelers Com­
panies, 30-CR, CN88, One Tower Square, Hartford, CT 06183-7060.
TheTraveler^j
You're better off under the Umbrella. '
I’he Iravelers Companies, Hartford Connecticut0M8.1An hijual Opportunity Kmplover.

---------------------------------------------------

!
AIRBAND IS COMING
Saturday, Nov. 12th 
1st prize: $200 
2nd prize: $ 1OO 
3rd prize: $50
Sign up at Skibo Information Desk beginning Wednesday, Nov. 2 ai 
6pm. The first eight acts with $25 deposit will compete.
Make checks payable to Activities Board.
Deposits returned after performance.
Presented by AB Entertainment Spotlight
Funded by Activities Fee
CITICORP® CITIBANK
FINANCIAL INSTITUTIONS GROUP
Students from Carnegie Mellon are invited to meet with 
representatives from The Financial Institutions Group
to discuss career opportunities and our Management 
Associate program.
The meeting will be held on:
Monday, November 7,1988 
5:00 - 7:00 pm
in
Skibo, Room 13
(refreshments will be served)
Citicorp’s Financial Institutions Group will recruit on campus
January 19, 1989.
-
For more information contact Career Services and Development. 
Students from the Graduate School of Industrial Administration
are welcome to attend.

---------------------------------------------------

‘Quite a spread": Spam and its related foods.
photos by Howdy Pierce
A Nightmare on Clyde Street
By HOWDY PIERCE
Tartan Features Editor
For most, Saturday night was a evening of parties and costumes. Stu­
dents dressed in a variety of costumes ranging from traditional Halloween 
fare — skeletons and vampires — to more innovative garb, like dead 
yuppies and tie racks. ^
But for a small band of students, Saturday evening meant another kind 
of party and another kind of costume. Dressed in cheap navy blue shirts 
bearing four bold yellow letters, they assembled in room 103 of the apart­
ments located at 630 Clyde Street for one of the most innovative social 
events in Pittsburgh. Simply put, they came to Spamfest IV to eat Spam.
“It’s something to get psyched up for every semester,” says Spamfest 
organizer Derek Chung. Appropriately nicknamed “Spam,” the softspoken 
Chung is a Junior Electrical and Computer Engineering major from 
Dublin, Ohio.
Spamfest is a once-a-semester event that takes place in Chung’s apart­
ment. Party-goers are treated to free Spam in a variety of forms, as well as 
more traditional party fare like soft drinks and chips. Anybody who can eat 
at least a slice of Spam is invited.
It all started innocently. “When I first came to school, I wore this blue 
shirt with ‘SPAM’ in big yellow letters,” says Chung. “I got it in1 a grocery 
store rebate offer for $3.60.”
Chung’s shirt caused discussion and laughter among his friends — so 
much so that in the spring of 1987 they decided to have Spam for one of 
their weekly study breaks. A tradition was born.
“Most of us had never tried Spam,” laughs Chung. He and his friends 
went through only four cans of Spam at Spamfest I. The goal for this 
weekend’s Spamfest IV was 30 cans.
Unfortunately, however, the party died out after only seventeen cans, 
two short of the nineteen-can record set last semester during Spamfest III.
Although Chung is disappointed, he is not daunted. “There were a lot of 
people expected who didn’t show,” he says. “We bought 30 cans of Spam. 
We’ll have a lot left over for Spamfest V.” He estimates that about 60 
people dropped in for a slice of Spam and a laugh this past weekend.
Chung claims he doesn’t even really like Spam. “Not as a food. We get it 
for the name and because it’s so stupid-looking,” he laughs.
Spamfest has been well-supported by Student Dormitory Council and the 
Housing Office. About half of the funds for Saturday’s bash came from 
SDC. Another quarter came from Housing, and Chung made up the differ­
ence out of his own pocket.
Chung has become something of a Spam gourmet. He owns a couple of 
Spam cookbooks put out by Hormel, the makers of Spam. And he sent 
away for a “Spam slicer” before Spamfest III. (The slicer resembles a hard- 
boiled egg slicer; it accepts one loaf of Spam and cuts it into perhaps ten 
pieces.) At Spamfest, students can eat fried Spam, Spam on toast, Spam on 
crackers, Spam and eggs, or any combination thereof. Chung himself 
prefers “your basic Spam and eggs.”
Spamfest IV was the topic of much publicity. In addition to the numerous 
posters Chung and friends placed around campus (“Who says Spam has no 
redeeming value?”), the event was listed in In Pittsburgh last week. And 
the Pittsburgh Press featured it as the lead for its weekly “Weekender” 
section. Chung was interviewed in an accompanying article.
Recently, a Spam-look-alike named Treet has hit the market. For the 
Spamfest aficionados, however, there’s no substitute for the real thing. A 
highlight of the party was the bashing of a can of Treet with a baseball bat.
Prior to Spamfest III, Chung took orders from friends and acquaintances 
for Hormel Spam shirts, priced under four dollars. Most of the Spamfest IV 
partiers were dressed in the official Spam-eating finery.
At every Spamfest, Chung hands out Hostess Twinkies and Ho-Hos after 
everybody is pretty much sick of eating Spam. But since he expected more 
people, he bought about eighty Twinkies and Ho-Hos. Spamfest IV ended 
in a Twinkie and Ho-Ho battle. “People started throwing them,” chuckles 
Chung.
Spamfest V will be held sometime in April.
V ¥¥ T2C Kip rautas, op ¡iLIVliNvj

---------------------------------------------------

L2The Tartan • Carnegie Mellon • 1 November 1988
Explore the CMU “Commitment to Excellence”
“Imagine a place where ques­
tioning, exploring and learning 
.are limitless...where the best and 
:brightest from all over the country 
'and the world work together to 
\ share ideas, explore new territo­
ries, create art and music, study 
'.the past and see the future. In a 
' world of change, discover a com- 
munity where excellence is a con­
stant.”
Is it Xanadu? Is it Shangri-La? 
'Is it Milton’s Paradise Lost fi­
nally delivered unto the breast of
A
Momentary
Lapse
of
Javier
Grillo-Marxuach
our mother Earth? No. It is some- 
- thing altogether more incredible, 
it is Carnegie-Mellon University 
i I know the hyphen has been offi­
cially removed, but since I have to 
go through life as Javier Grillo- 
Marxuach I do not think that this 
school should have it any easier). 
The scary truth is that the pre­
ceding passage is part of the 
admissions booklet sent to every 
hopeful high school graduate in 
order to entice them to come to 
Pittsburgh and become a part of 
.the Carnegie-Mellon family.
First of all I wish to argue 
against this whole theme of 
“exploring.” The truth is that with 
the exception of several road trips 
to Atlantic City (the events of 
which will be the subject of an 
upcoming column) the closest 
¦ thing to exploration I have seen 
done in this school has been the 
•impossible quest to find an opera­
tive photocopier. Actually, that’s 
’not entirely true. I am currently 
; organizing an expedition into the 
'sub-levels of Hamerschlag Hall, 
where the entire crew to a George 
Romero film was reported miss­
ing early last year and has yet to 
be found.
One of the most peculiar as­
pects of this admissions booklet is 
that the front cover bears the 
•legend “Carnegie-Mellon: A 
Commitment to Excellence.” The 
•'odd thing is that when I made the 
•decision to come to Carnegie- 
Mellon I was under the impres­
sion that I was making “The Pro­
fessional Choice.” Nobody ever 
said anything about making “A 
Commitment to Excellence.” I 
suppose that this should come as 
no surprise to me; when I got here 
I didn’t know that my heart had 
to be in the work, or that “Plaid is 
Bad,” or that my 17,000 dollars in 
tuition money were being handed 
over to Steve Jobs so that he could 
design a two by four magnesium 
cube with a fancy stereo system 
and advanced graphics capabil­
ity which he will later sell exclu­
sively to Carnegie-Mellon stu­
dents at a substantial profit. At 
any rate, I can live with having to 
make “A Commitment to Excel­
lence.” I didn’t have much of a 
social life to begin with anyway.
Under the “Commitment to 
Excellence” slogan, the booklet 
bears a picture of a group of happy 
students sitting on the Cut bliss­
fully leafing through the pages of 
a textbook, laughing with the 
unbridled joy that only higher 
education can bring. First of all, 
why are they smiling instead of 
grimacing in disgust as they wipe 
the fresh manure from their Neo- 
Fascist United Colors of Bennet- 
ton uniforms? And more impor­
tantly why is it that they are not 
being trampled to death by the 
entire defensive line of the Car- 
negie-Mellon Tartans? At this 
point I am tempted to make a 
cutesy remark about the entire 
defensive line of the Carnegie-
Mellon Tartans, _____________
but I will not, 
seeing as I do not 
wish to wake up 
with a dead Scot- 
tie-Dog’s head in 
my bed tomorrow 
morning.
Where are the 
al 1 -nighters?
Where are the 
hordes of ex­
hausted students 
droning around 
campus in the 
smelly, pizza- 
stained sweats 
they have been 
wearing for three 
days straight, inhaling Vivarin 
and doing Jolt Cola intravenously 
as every day becomes a waking 
nightmare of drudgery from which
“Ole’ Dick Cyert 
is going INSANE 
and he’s chop­
ping down those 
prices! He’s 
practically givin’ 
those degrees 
away! Our schol­
arships can’t be 
beat!"
ent. After all, why limit yourself 
to empty promises of academic 
bliss when the whole realm of 
empty promises lies before us for 
the taking? Why promise students 
that their parents’ hard-earned 
money is going solely toward the 
purpose of educating them? Why 
not offer something more for the
17.000 dollar price tag? With this 
in mind I would like to present:
The Official Momentary 
Lapse Of Javi Carnegie-Mel- 
lon Admissions Pitch Index!
Pitch #1: Carnegie-Mellon! Yes, 
Carnegie-Mellon, where else can 
you get an education and four, 
count ‘em, four, brand new Yugos 
for every academic year! What 
other school can promise you the 
education you want and four as­
tounding Serbo-Croatian Hot 
Rods for the small price of your 
tuition? (That’s sixteen Yugos for 
degree candidates, twenty-four for 
Master’s Degree candidates and 
forty for those lucky PhDs!)
Pitch#2: '"’Carnegie-Mellon: A 
Professional Commitment!”
Pitch #3: There is more to Car­
negie-Mellon than just academ­
ics! Carnegie-Mellon is the first 
school ever to offer every incom­
ing student a satisfactory love- 
life. That’s right, let our sophisti­
cated, multi-million-dollar An­
drew System pick the perfect mate 
for you! Why bother with the 
frustrating and socially demean­
ing dating scene at other schools? 
_____________ At Carnegie-Mel­
lon, we have re­
duced everything 
to a science!
PitchM: Mind­
less Android? 
Thinking about 
it? Carnegie-Mel­
lon!
Pitch# 5: At
Carnegie-Mellon, 
we’re slaughter­
ing the price of 
higher education! 
PhDs! MBAs! 
MFAs! This week 
only, B.A. and 
B.S. will be re- 
duced to only
68.000 dollars! Ole’ Dick Cyert is 
going INSANE and he’s chopping 
down those prices! He’s practi­
cally givin’ those degrees away!
is the case. However, I can only 
feel a nagging sense of unease 
when I think that I fell for this 
“Professional Choice” poppycock 
a year ago and that countless 
others will be roped into making 
“A Commitment To Excellence” 
because of this booklet. I suppose 
that I feel like the little kid who 
opened his presents on Christ­
mas Day only to find out that the 
Amazing Human Torch Costume 
he had been wishing for all of his 
life consisted of a can of gasoline 
and a match.
Call me bitter, nickname me 
“The Spleen,” I don’t care. I can 
live with the reality of Carnegie- 
Mellon University. I only wish 
that it had a little more in com­
mon with the fantasy of Carne­
gie-Mellon University.
Coming Soon! The new Duran- 
Duran Album, or, What Color Is 
Nick Rhodes’ Hair This Week?
Coming A Little Bit Later Than 
That! The burning question: is 
intramural llama herding too 
violent?
Coming A Lot later Than That! 
The NeXT Machine: Major Break­
through In Distributed Comput­
ing and Fool-Proof Marital Aid!
/w / ww
Depression, for most people, 
is a temporary bad mood follow­
ing an event: a disappointing 
grade, an ended romance, an 
overload of work. Students 
usually have many effective 
coping skills to deal with de­
pression, such as talking with 
friends or family, taking a 
break, exercising, doing some­
thing that’s special or fun, or 
listening to favorite music.
For some people, a bad mood 
becomes a mental health prob­
lem when it is both intense and 
persistent enough to interfere 
with work, friendship, family 
life or physical health.
In its milder forms, depres­
sion is simply a mood. In more 
severe forms, depression usu­
ally involves much more and is 
called a mood disorder. Among 
all psychological difficulties, 
depression is currently one of 
the best understood and most
responsive to treatment.
An episode of serious (major) 
depression is characterized by 
inconsolable misery accompa. 
nied by despair and guilt. Seri, 
ously depressed people feel to. 
tally inadequate and worthless. 
Some withdraw from human! 
contacts, lose interest in life 
and become incapable of feeling 
pleasure. Others are irritabl; 
and cannot concentrate or mak* 
even minor decisions. The de 
pression may be characterize; 
by slow movements, toneles, 
speech, and an expressionless 
face. Depression may also b 
anxious and agitated.
A number of physical symp. 
toms are common: chronic fa 
tigue, changes in eating an 
sleeping, backaches, headache« 
upset stomaches, and constipa 
tion. Depressed people will sul 
fer from excessive sleeping, 
continued on page I5j
there seems to be no possibility of Our scholarships can’t be beat,
escape:
The point that I am trying to 
make is that I don’t think that 
this booklet is very effective in 
achieving its aim: any high school 
graduate can see through the 
mass-produced collegiate senti­
mentality this booklet is spread­
ing. If it were up to me to write 
Carnegie-Mellon’s admission 
booklet it would be much differ-
they’re INSANE! We accept all of 
the competition’s coupons! We will 
not be undersold! Shop around 
and compare, you’ll always wind 
up at our doors! Carnegie-Mellon 
University, for prices that are IN-. 
SANE!
I guess I might seem a little 
bitter: after all, finding new stu­
dents should be the school’s pre­
rogative. At least I hope that this
B"H
FIRST ANNUAL CHABAD HOUSE SHABBATON 
friday nite november 11
• Shabbat Services
• Traditional Sabbath Dinner
• Open Discussion
B'REAT FOOD - FINE CONVERSATION
6/7 - 9 pm
FREE •• ALL WELCOME
$
Saturday nite november 12
8 pm - ???
ISRAEL] COFFEEHOUSE
• live music & jamming
• menu:
felafel
pita
israeli salads
snacks
desserts
CHABAD HOUSE —Thi WALLINGFORD STREET - SHADYSIDE
for more information please call 683 - 7770
Computer Science Preliminary Registration forms 
available in 6126 Wean.
Completed forms due November 3rd.
Return to 6126 Wean.
For more information call Becky Clark x3344-

---------------------------------------------------

The Tartan • Carnegie Mellon • 1 November 1988L3
Woods: Apartheid, Freedom,
By BRYAN THOMAS SCHMIDT
Tartan Staffwriter
“It’s a miracle a kid survives here 
at all. The place is. full of drunks and 
thuggery — people so desperate for 
anything they’d beat a kid bloody if 
they thought he had five rands,” said 
black activist Steven Biko, walking 
along the dark streets of a black 
South African township at night with 
his friend Donald Woods. Woods is 
the white editor of South Africa’s 
leading anti-apartheid newspaper, 
the East London Daily Dispatch.
“But, if a kid does survive,” Biko 
continues, “he grows up in these 
streets, these houses, takes the 
education and the jobs the white 
man will give him, then he goes to 
their city to work or to shop, and he 
sees their houses, their streets, their 
cars, and he begins to feel there’s 
something'notquite right’ about him, 
about his humanity.”
“Something to do with his black­
ness,” Biko goes on to explain, “be­
cause no matter how dumb or smart 
a white child is, he’s born into that 
world. But you, the black boy, smart 
or dumb — are born into this, and 
smart or dumb, will die in it.” It's a 
very powerful scene and a very 
powerful statement against apart­
heid, occurring twenty minutes into 
Sir Richard Attenborough’s epic film 
Cry Freedom, which was shown by 
AB Films last Thursday at 6 and 9 
pm in DH 2210.
But this is more than just a scene 
from a movie. The film is based on 
the real life experiences of Donald 
Woods as written in his books Biko 
and Ashing For Trouble. Both are 
the chronicles of the author’s first 
meeting with Biko in 1975 and con­
tinue on through Woods’ and his 
family’s escape from South Africa, 
two years later. Woods was banned 
for publishing details of the brutal 
murder of Biko by agents of the South 
African government's Security Po­
lice. During the five years Woods 
was banned, he was forbidden to 
-travel, speak publicly, or to write 
anything,’ even a postcard. He was 
also not allowed to be in a room with 
more than one person at a time with 
the exception of his wife and five 
children.
Three months after he was banned, 
and members ofhis family were attacked 
by the Security Police, the family fled 
South Africa. They moved to London, 
where Woods has worked as a writer, 
broadcaster, and lecturer on apartheid 
ever since. In 1978, Woods published his 
first book, Biko, which has been trans­
lated into twelve languages and was 
written immediately after he was banned 
in South Africa. Woods, currently on a 
lecture tour of the United States, made 
his 23rd stop at Carnegie Mellon last 
Wednesday. He spoke for the opening 
1988-89 series of AB Lectures.
Woods spent about the first third ofhis 
lecture encouraging students to cam­
paign for divestment and then spoke of 
his friendship with Steven Biko, and 
how he transformed his life.
“I’m a white South African myself,” he 
explained, “and was born there 54 years 
ago. I was accused once of being a sort of 
immigrant, but my great great grandfa­
ther was born in South Africa, so I feel a 
deep attachment to the place. And the 
minute I can, I have every intention of 
going back there, among other things, to 
get my house and my car back. But what 
happened in my case, see I was raised 
like most white kids of my generation to 
be very racist indeed. To believe that 
blacks existed to be our servants; that 
they could never be our equals. When 
you’re a kid, and you get this from your 
parents from childhood, and you get it 
from your peers at school; and it is the 
uniform opinion of all those around you, 
you accept it as normal as daylight and 
rainfall.”
It was.only when he went to study law 
in Cape Town, South Africa, that Woods 
began to question his country’s system of 
apartheid — pronounced “apart-hate” 
by South Africans. “The study of prin­
ciples of perfect justice didn’t exactly go 
with what was going on around me.”
Afewyears later, while traveling over­
seas, the author visited cities where 
“blacks and whites lived together with­
out the skies collapsing. I came back to 
South Africa in I960, intellectually op­
posed to apartheid and to some extent 
emotionally. But, in many ways the real 
nub of my education out of apartheid 
came from Steven Biko, the very re­
markable young black leader.”
Woods said people often ask him what 
was so remarkable about Biko, to which 
he replies, “Look at your four candidates
for president and imagine any of those 
four confined to a small area of the United 
States, not allowed to travel, to be quoted 
in the press, or in television, or radio; not 
allowed to meet with more than one 
person at a time for five years, and yet 
building up a national following. That’s 
what Biko did. He built up a national 
following although he could not do any of 
these things, and that’s leadership.”
“For me, the value in what he taught 
me was this,” Woods continued. “I don’t 
believe white people are capable — and 
I say this whether you’re white Ameri­
can, white British, or white South Afri­
can like me, no matter how sympathetic 
you are to what you regard as the ‘black 
cause’ — ever fully to perceive what it’s 
like being black in a black repressed 
society. You’ve got to be in a black skin, 
be looking through black eyes to see 
that.”
“If you are lucky enough to meet an un­
usually gifted leader,” Woods explained, 
“he can’t put you inside a black skin, but 
what he can do, ifhe has that gift ofbeing 
able to impart perceptions, is get you as 
close as a white person can get to their 
I blacks] perceptions. And then strange 
things start happening. You start seeing 
things, picking up perceptions you didn’t 
see before.”
“In societies where black and white 
live together, it follows that what white 
people like me had first thought of as the 
necessary prelude to racial harmony was 
simply for whites to realize that apart­
heid was wrong, or in this country, that 
segregation was wrong,” Woods said. 
“You passed the laws, and everyone 
makes an honest effort, and everything’s 
going to be just dandy. Well, it isn’t so.”
“It’s true that what we’ve got in South 
Africa is worse,” he admitted. “It’s far 
more pernicious because it’s statutory. 
The great difference between what hap­
pened in this country in the Civil Rights 
campaign and what’s happeningin South 
Africa, is that in the United States black 
Americans had a Constitution they could 
appeal to. There was a Constitution in 
Washington which said ‘all Americans 
are equal.’ What blacks had to do was get 
that promise kept and implemented. 
Black South Africans have nothing like 
that. They’ve got a Constitution that 
specifically excludes blacks from civil 
rights.”
Woods also explained that, in the U.S. 
racial oppression can be shown openly by
the press to the whole country almost at 
the instant an incident occurs. However, 
the South African press isn’t allowed to 
show such things. ‘You have that imme­
diate absence of a potentially sympa­
thetic, white audience,” he noted.
“What makes racism alive and well 
wherever it lurks,” Woods continued, 
“struck me with great force when I first 
came to the U.S. I came with this image 
of ‘what a wonderful place.’ They’ve elimi­
nated racism, passed the Civil Rights 
law, and Dr. King and the black Ameri­
cans have won their ‘place in the sun.’ I 
have now been coming here nine or ten 
years, and I’m now convinced that it’s 
only gone 50#.” Woods said “If 50# is 
passing the laws, this was just the start 
of the process, but the process wasn’t fol­
lowed through on.
“When I was first driven from New 
York City to Armand, the driver took me 
through what looked like nuclear devas­
tation. This was South Bronx,” he ex­
plained. “I said ‘what in the hell has 
happened here?’ and he told me. And 
then I saw Roxbury in Boston, Chicago’s 
South Side, and Watts in Los Angeles. I 
cannot work out in my mind why some 
leader has not gotten up and made the 
main plank in the platform, priority 
number one, and said the number one 
enemy of the people of the United States 
is the poverty, the ghettos, the failure to 
break the cycle of despair. Until that 
cycle is broken, this particular problem 
is going to compound itself, until a ter­
rible bill is going to have to be met.”
“When I talk of apartheid, I’m talking 
of the ugly boil on the surface of the 
skin,” Woods explained. “There are foot­
hills. There’s racism in Europe, here, 
everywhere, and its interrelated. There 
are first cousin relationships between 
the manifestations of it, and that’s why 
I’m dealing with it in some great length. 
It’s up to all of us to do something about 
apartheid. That is. something everyone 
can do something about, everyone in this
room.
Woods made several suggestions 
regarding what people can do to fight 
apartheid. “There’s an old American 
institution that should never be 
sneered at, a letter to your Congress­
man or Senator or administration,” 
he said. “Politicians never ignore 
letters from potential voters, so let 
them know you’re unhappy, you 
think we should be doing more about 
apartheid.”
Woods said the second thing people 
can do is write letters to political 
prisoners such as Nelson Mandela in 
South Africa. “The address is easy: 
Nelson Mandela, Polesmoor Prison, 
Cape Town, South Africa. You’d be 
surprised how many such letters 
actually get through to him. Obvi­
ously he doesn’t get most of the let­
ters sent to him, but some will get 
through. Those wardens will see 
them, and the South African govern- 
continued on page L5
Parents check their investments
photo by Jennifer Sherer
Freshman Voice Major Amanda Raines, right, walks across the Cut with her family during 
Freshman Parents’ Day last Saturday.
Zaslow returns to The Tartan
Bush misses one belt loop too many
How others view Carnegie Mellon
TERENCE SPIES
("'tan 'Staffwriter
There are two Carnegie Mel- 
fns- There is the one we all at- 
|nd and love, and there is the 
ai'negie Mellon of the College 
Glides.Everyone has seen these 
°°ks, gurportingtogive prospec- 
iVG students “the insider’s view” 
|r ‘the most complete informa- 
j|on on colleges” or “the informa- 
j|on 110 other guide has.”
|P'Hey vary in size from pam- 
J ^let-sized to the telephone book 
^portions of the Barron’s books. 
k e c°ntent is nearly always ei- 
an endless listing of statis­
ts» or a chatty sort of “expose” on 
ach college. Students can also
choose from a panoply of special­
ized books like “Guide to Selec­
tive Schools” (in which Carnegie 
Mellon is included), “A Black 
Student’s Guide to College,” or 
“The Best Buys in Education” (in 
which Carnegie Mellon is 'not 
included).
Several freshmen admitted to 
getting their first information 
about Carnegie Mellon from one 
college guide or another. Chris 
Cook, a freshman in CIT, said he 
used guides “to find out if a place 
was pretty horrible or not” before 
applying. Freshmen are not the 
only users. CMU students have 
been seen in bookstores just glanc­
ing through the latest edition to 
find out if they are getting good
press for their $17,000.
So, what impression do prospec­
tive students get from these 
guides?
From the telephone book guides, 
you get the same statistics on how 
high your GPA should be to get in 
(3.0), how many students that 
enter graduate in four years 
(79#), when the application dead­
lines are (May 1 and November 
15), and much more. These guides 
tend to be very dry and very much 
the same.
Vastly more popular (based on 
the wear on the books in the 
Carnegie Library) are the narra­
tive guides, like Fiske’s “Selec­
tive Guide to Colleges” or “The 
continued on page L4
They say you can ’tgo home again 
—so what am I doing back in The 
Tartan after all these years'?
I thought I was finished with 
this newspaper. I was editor of the 
Tartan back in 1979.1 put in my 
time. 1 loved it. I learned a lot. But 
you get older, you move on.
I received my CMU degree in 
creative writing, and eventually 
became a Wall Street Journal 
reporter. Then last year, I wrote a 
WSJ article about the 12,000 
people who applied to replace Ann 
Landers at the Chicago Sun- 
Times. I entered the Landers con­
test as an angle for my story. I 
surprised myself by getting the 
job, and the story became the story 
of my life.
So now Fm an advice colum­
nist. From the start, I vowed to be 
“off the wall and on the mark." I 
make house calls. I give unsolic­
ited advice to the famous. It's not 
your traditional advice column.
Through syndication, the col­
umn appears in newspapers across 
America. But I'll be honest. When 
Tartan editor Karl Barnhart 
called to say he was taking the 
column, it was one of the biggest 
thrills I've had since taking this 
job.
Yes, you can go home again. 
And it feels terrific.
As long as I don 't have to show 
up on Sunday nights to help put 
the Tartan to bed, I think this is a 
great arrangement.
By the way, if you ever have a 
problem, comment, or idea to 
contribute to the column, I'd love 
to hear from you. Just say you are 
from CMU and I promise your 
letter will go to the top of the pile.
I think the column that follows 
is an appropriate one for this 
campaign season — and for The 
Tartan.
All That
by Jeffrey Zaslow
In this, the season of George 
Bush, every pundit in America is 
giving the man advice. To guar­
antee victory in the election, they 
say, he must follow their game 
plans, heed their warnings, and 
persuade his wifeto dye her hair.
Pundits can be pompous.
Though I’m in the advice busi­
ness, I have no idea how to win 
the presidency. So I’ve held off 
giving Bush or Dukakis advice.
And yet, whenever I see Bush 
on TV, I recall the 
day in April, 1980, 
when he and I met.
And I realize 
there’s good advice 
to be found in that 
memory.
In 1980,1 was a 
senior creative 
writing major at 
Carnegie-Mellon 
University in 
Pittsburgh. As 
editor of the school ¦ 
paper, I hosted the 
Pennsylvania Collegiate Press As­
sociation conference. Attended by 
31 student editors, it was pretty 
small-time.
That week, Bush and Ronald 
Reagan were battling each other 
in Pennsylvania’s primary. Re­
member, those two were adver­
saries before they teamed up in 
the 1980 general election. A friend 
of mine was a Bush volunteer. He 
suggested that the candidate
"In this, the 
season of 
George Bush, 
every pundit in 
America is giv­
ing the man 
advice. ”
address the student journalists. 
Bush staffers loved the idea, es­
pecially since my friend promised 
a crowd of 500 student editors. *
I was thrilled to have such a 
big-time keynote speaker. But 
what if Bush found out there were 
only 31 of us? I felt compelled to 
run around campus, trying t]) 
drum up a crowd of imposte)* 
student editors. I also had to giv|) 
a campus tour — emphasizing 
emergency exits — to Bush’s no- 
nonsense Secret Service men. \ 
A few columnists arrived a daj 
early to capture “the mood” ojf 
these 500 young journalists}. 
(There were only a handful olf 
moods to capture, but we offerecl 
a host of strange observations 
about America. We rambled; the 
columnists nodded.)
On the morning of the speech;.
there were twice 
as many press 
corps members as 
there were stuf 
dent journalists. 
But, luckily, word 
of mouth had 
brought out huiu 
dreds of “impos­
ters” — art ma*- 
jors, engineering 
students, my fraj; 
brothers. Assumf 
¦MHBj ing they were sur­
rounded by stuf 
dent editors, the reporters pre­
pared stories on Bush’s encoun­
ter with “500 of tomorrow’s media 
leaders.”
Bush arrived on schedule. Hç 
was tall, friendly, polite. As hè 
and I spoke backstage, he kept 
repeating my name. (He never 
missed. It was “Jeff” every time, 
which now makes me wonder 
about his “Nightline” perform- 
continued on page L4

---------------------------------------------------

L4The Tartan • Carnegie Mellon • 1 November 1988
Bush learns a lesson in Pittsburgh
continued from page 13
ance: He kept calling Ted Koppel 
“Dan,” as in Rather.)
I led Bush on stage, introduced 
him, and took a seat behind him. 
He was impressive. There were a 
few hecklers, and he had sharp 
comebacks that drew cheers.
He was roughest on his oppo­
nent — describing Reagan’s fiscal 
plans as “voodoo economics.”
It was quite hot, and Bush took 
off his suitcoat. From my seat be­
hind him, I immediately noticed 
that he had missed a back belt 
loop — maybe even two. As a re­
sult, his belt scrunched up his 
shirt. He looked disheveled, but 
endearing: It proved he’s only hu­
man. After the speech, I consid­
ered pointing out the belt loop, 
then figured: That’s what aides 
; are for.
I never saw Bush after that 
day, but this story isn’t over.
In February, 1982, after Bush 
! was already vice president, folks 
in the media recalled that he had 
¦ once labelled Reagan a practitio- 
; ner of “voodoo economics.” Bush 
insisted he never uttered the 
, phrase: “I challenge anyone to 
! find it.”
! NBC News immediately dug up
I the videotape of his CMU speech, 
' which also showed me behind him,
• staring at the back of his pants.
• That speech became the most fa- 
; mous of his failed 1980 campaign. 
; But now, finally. Bush is poised
to win the election. So before he 
returns to the campaign trail, 
what advice might I give him?
Perhaps this: Don’t sweat the 
small stuff, Mr. Bush. You can 
miss the belt loops, just get 
people’s names right. And, of 
course, remember that anything 
you say can and will be held 
against you. The videotape will 
catch you every time.
The only other advice I have is 
for Mrs. Bush: She needn’t color 
her hair. In fact, if I were a dedi­
cated columnist, I’d sample the
mood among, say, student jour­
nalists, and determine that young 
America is ready for a natural 
woman — a first lady with white 
hair. But I won’t bother with such 
a survey. One thing I learned from 
the 1980 campaign is that the 
mood among student journalists 
is suspect.
Jeffrey Zaslow is a one-time 
Editor-in-Chiefof The Tartan, and 
is now a syndicated columnist for 
the Chicago Sun-Times. Mail let­
ters to Zazz, Box 3455, Chicago, 
IL, 60654.
What
Can An
MBA
Do For
OHIO5JÄTE
An MBA degree from Ohio State 
can bring you greater opportunities, 
income, and career challenges. Our 
nationally recognized MBA program 
offers merit-based financial aid and 
has no prerequisites. We enroll both 
business and nonbusiness majors. 
And many of our graduates have 
gone on to jobs with established 
leaders like IBM, Goldman Sachs, 
AT&T, and Procter & Gamble. For 
a free brochure about our programs, 
please write or call:
Director, MBA Programs 
The Ohio State University 
112 Hagerty Hall 
1775 College Road 
Columbus, OH 43210-1399 
614-292-8511
PARAMOUNT PICTURES PRESENTS A MIDNIGHT FILMS PRODUCTION OF A PHIL J0AN0U FILM U2 RATTLE AND HUM 
MUSIC PRODUCED BY JIMMY I0VINE DIRECTOR OF PHOTOGRAPHY COLOR JORDAN CRONENWETH A.SC.
DIRECTOR OF PHOTOGRAPHY BLACK & WHITE ROBERT BRINKMANN EXECUTIVE PRODUCER PAUL McGUINNESS 
PRODUCED BY MICHAEL HAMLYN DIRECTED BY PHIL J0AN0U A PARAMOUNT PICTURE 
ALBUM AVAILABLE ON ISLAND RECORDS. CASSETTES & COMPACT DISCS 
PCï-13 PMimS$T*0«6UC»Un0M0 •• i y • .¡.r
iwawianihiuNwinwCMfniM.« L,., ,• -*.•¦.•! v:.r ‘W'B0C»S '* -£££•-.•*
THE MOVIE OPENS NOVEMBER 4TH
Spring Carnival 
Booth Meeting
Thursday, November 3 
8:30 pm 
Porter Hall 229B 
Any questions, call Joy at x5950
College guides misrepresent student life at CMU
Gyro........................................2.60
Gyro dinner.........................4.15
Falafil....................................1.88
Shish kobob sandwich .. 2.85
Shish kobob dinner..........5.60
Homous......................... 1.60
Baba ghanogh....................1.60
Greek salad.........small 1.85
large 2.60
Artichoke salad..................2.75
Grape leaves.......................2.60
Fries...........................................94
Rice pudding...........................94
Baklava.....................................60
Drinks........................................60
Prices do not include tax
FREE DELIVERY 11-12 (Minimum $6)
“The fraternity houses hold 400 men 
each. Four hundred men times 12 
fraternities equals about 600 more 
students than actually attend CMU."
continued from page L3
Insider’s Guide to Colleges.” These 
guides give a couple of pages of 
gossipy description about the col­
lege. They tend to be fair by pre- 
sentinggood and bad points. They 
all have the obligatory paragraphs 
about how difficult it is to get into, 
how the buildings are ugly, how 
the colleges are fragmented, and 
how everyone works really hard. 
Several of these obligatory para­
graphs have not changed from 
1982 editions.
The lack of revision in the nar­
rative books can make CMU seem 
vary static. While there is a lot of 
information on how bad student 
life here is, no information is given 
about efforts to change the situ­
ation. New editions of the guides 
do not tell prospective students 
about the student ombudsman, 
the Quality of Life report, or any 
of the other efforts to make CMU 
a more livable place.
One kind of information both 
the narrative and statistical 
guides have a lot of, is huge errors 
about CMU. Here are just some of 
the amazing facts that you proba­
bly didn’t know about Carnegie 
Mellon:
The first, and most glaring er­
ror is the fruits and veggies dis­
tinction. Supposedly, everyone 
here calls engineers veggies, and 
art students fruits. With the treat­
ment that the narrative guides 
give this issue, a potential stu­
dent would think these are the 
two most common words on cam­
pus. In reality, use of these terms 
is good evidence of a student that 
has just arrived on campus.
The emphasis on the fruits vs. 
veggies idea also has the nasty 
side effect of polarizing students 
before they even arrive. If a stu­
dent entering CIT has been told 
by his first source of information 
that he will not associate with 
students from CFA, he probably 
will not.
The Greek system is also mis­
represented in a few guides. One
guide from 1988 thinks that the 
sororities are in Morewood Gar­
dens along with all the other coeds. 
The fraternity houses hold 400 
men each. Four hundred men 
times 12 fraternities equals about 
600 more students than actually 
attend CMU.
Carnegie Mellon has an amaz­
ing array of activities, according 
to the guides. Students can go 
join the debate team, major in po­
litical science, or staff the campus 
television station. Also, a thirsty 
student could go down to the cam­
pus pub. This would seem to be 
Scotland Yard, except that 
Lovejoy’s Guide implies that the 
campus pub serves alcohol.
The guides are not very sure 
about where CMU is either. Sev­
eral guides place us squarely 
inside Oakland, while another
says the university sits on the 
outskirts of a city. After extensive 
research, no one was able to find 
the side of campus that borders 
idyllic rural Pennsylvania.
The true stumbling block for 
college guides about Carnegie 
Mellon is computers. Some guides 
had some truly amazing facts 
about computers at CMU. For 
instance, there are 2,500 termi­
nals available to students. (There 
must be a very big cluster that is 
very well hidden.) There are com­
puters provided in every dorm 
room. (What? You don’t have 
yours? Complain to your RA.) 
Every freshman is assigned to a 
workstation when arriving at the 
university. Every freshman must 
buy a computer, and it will be 
factored into financial aid. Every 
freshman gets a free computer. 
(Perhaps students have just been 
forgetting to attend “Free Com­
puter Day” in the Skibo Ballroom.)
The worst joke in any of the 
college guides is in Fiske’s Selec­
tive Guide, “beginning in the fall 
of 1985 all entering freshmen will 
be required to purchase their own 
personal R2D2.” This looks like 
students either have to buy our
own R3D or Fiske was trying to 
say students have to buy robots.
Fiske’s Selective Guide to Col­
leges contains a gem that the 
college might have wanted to be 
true, but it never really happened. 
“The [H&SS] core curriculum em­
phasizes an ability to transfer 
knowledge from one field to an­
other, and a student taking a final 
exam in a social science course 
may encounter a question on a 
book assigned in a literature 
course.” Students taking the core 
have yet to be asked about how 
the rhyme scheme in 
Shakespeare’s sonnets related to 
the Model III analysis of the 
Cuban Missile Crisis, or how to 
use first order logic and Turing 
machines to analyze The French 
Lieutenant’s Woman.
Between the lack of revision of 
the guides and the huge amounts 
of errors, college guides tend to 
present a pretty warped sense of 
CMU. So, have pity next year 
when the new freshmen arrive 
and wander around looking con­
fused. They are probably just 
trying to find the on campus ice 
rink that they read about in 
Lovejoy’s Guide.
LITTLE ATHENS
422-1330 
FREE DELIVERY!
2103 Murray Ave. • Pittsburgh. PA 15217
Features 
Ferret says,
you prevent
house ads/'
Features staff 
meetings are on 
Tuesday nights at 
8:00 in The Tartan 
office, Skibo 50.
Interested in helping with Spring
Carnival?
Meeting on Friday November 4 at 
9 am in Skibo Room 112. All 
present and future members of 
the Spring Carnival ’89

---------------------------------------------------

The Tartan • Carnegie Mellon • 1 November 1988L5
Journalist Woods argues for divestment
ontinued from page 13
ment will know the >olume repre­
senting the concern of pecple 
outside of South Afnca, and hot 
only for him, but forother politi­
cal prisoners.”
“The third thing yoi can di,” he 
urged, “is you can sujport anti­
apartheid groups, g'dup^ like 
Amnesty Internatioral, which 
work to raise awarenesl; of these 
issues. They need younupport.” 
Another thing you cai do is to 
bring South African back stu­
dents, victims of apartraid on to 
your campus, create schdarships 
for such people. And if 3m can’t 
do that, there is a fun\ which 
helps them ,to get a betteleduca- 
tion inside South Africa, ftan the 
tone they’re getting now.Ideally 
to lift them out of that elviron- 
¡ment so that for the first Ime in 
their young lives they wil be in 
an unfettered educationalenvi- 
•onment. That would be very 
valuable contribution. If onv you 
could bring one such stude 
“Another thing you can 
campaign hard for divest 
divestment, whatever you 
to call it,” he continued. ' 
founts. Even if your uni vers 
college has not got massi
vestments. Every dollar invested 
in the South African economy 
yields 34% of that dollar to the 
South African government, in tax 
revenue. That means an awful lot 
of money that they’ve got coming 
in from outside, which they de­
pend on to fund apartheid. Now, 
fortunately the taps are starting 
to close on that supply. It’s some­
thing like 18 billion dollars less 
that they are getting from the 
outside, and when we are fin­
ished, we must hope it will be 
between 50 and 60 billion less.”
“More than 130 colleges and 
universities in the U.S. have now 
divested over the last seven or 
eight years,” he said.
Woods is highly critical of those 
who say sanctions don’t work. He 
said the South African 
government’s fear of economic 
pressure has led it to spend more 
than $110 million, by its own ad­
mission, in the U.S. and Britain, 
to try and misinform the citizens. 
It has tried to buy the Washing­
ton Post, and several other news­
papers, even a TV network, so 
that it could control the flow of in­
formation given to the public.
He is also very critical of those 
who use arguments that such
sanctions would hurt the blacks 
of South Africa, as an argument 
against them. “It’s really extraor­
dinary you never hear this from 
black South Africans,” Woods 
said. “You hear it from white 
businessmen. If you do hear it 
from black South Africans, look 
at who’s paying their salary.” He 
mentioned Chief Gatsha Buthe- 
lezi, a South African who is paid 
by the government and allowed to 
travel without hassles. He is one 
black who speaks highly of his 
country’s government, one of the 
few. “I’m talking about the au­
thentic, representative black lead­
ers,” Woods explained. The best 
way to determine who is or isn’t 
representative of the views of 
black people is to see which lead­
ers are the most oppressed, those 
are the ones who usually have the 
greatest effect. “And when they 
tell us that they want sanctions 
and divestment, I think it’s arro­
gant of anyone to say ‘we know 
better than the victims of apart­
heid what’s in their interests.’ ” 
To those Board of Trustees 
members who stand up at his 
lectures and say, “Mr. Woods, it’s 
not our job to write foreign policy. 
It’s our job to maximize the fi­
nances of the university,” Woods 
said, “Prostitution and sale of 
cocaine will raise more money for
your university. If morality counts 
for nothing in investment, if you 
don’t care how you raise your 
money, I’m told there’s a 37% 
return on cocaine, tax free. And 
that a very well planned bank 
robbery can get you a whole new 
science block, tax free.”
“But to my mind the most com­
pelling reason for divestiture,” 
Woods said, “is that if I were a 
student at this university, I would 
care very much where my univer­
sity gets its money. I wouldn’t 
like to think that one brick in the 
place was financed by the sweated, 
exploited labor of black South Af­
ricans.”
“Somehow in their own inter­
ests as well as the interests of 
most South Africans,” Woods said 
of his country’s government, 
“we’ve got to tighten the screws 
on them. We’ve got to twist their 
arms to that negotiating table. 
Remember what Robert Kennedy 
said, ‘Every time someone stands 
up for justice it creates a ripple of 
hope, and millions of ripples in­
tercrossing each other can form 
quite a large river.’ ”
Recovering from depression
continued from page L2
difficulty in falling asleep, sleep 
discontinuity, or early morning 
awakening. Loss of appetite or 
a newly ravenous approach to 
eating are also experienced by 
persons who are depressed.
Major depression is one of sev­
eral depressive disorders which 
are classified by the nature, 
severity, and patterns of the 
symptoms. The most important 
distinction is between simple 
(unipolar) major depression and 
bipolar disorder, in which ma­
jor depression alternates with 
uncontrollable elation.
Simple depression also takes 
a milder form sometimes called 
dysthymia, a chronic disorder 
that lasts for years and is some­
times hard to distinguish from 
a personality trait. Many people 
with long-standing dysthymia 
come to medical or psychologi­
cal attention only when they 
develop symptoms of major 
depression.
One source of depression to 
consider is heredity. In families 
of persons with major depres­
sion or bipolar illness, the rate
of depression is at least two to 
three times the average. In fact, 
25% of people with major de­
pression and up to 50% of those 
with bipolar disorder have a 
relative with some form of mild 
01* severe mood disorder. The 
heredity influence is clear in 
bipolar disorder, but less cer­
tain in unipolar depression.
In the past 30 years, public 
awareness about depression has 
greatly increased, diagnostic 
methods have been refined, and 
effective therapies and useful 
drugs have become available. 
Depressed people have a greater 
chance for relief than ever be­
fore.
If you are depressed and want 
professional help, call the cam­
pus Counselling and Student 
Development Center at 268- 
2922 or come to Morewood 
Gardens, E-Tower, first floor 
and make an appointment
MeclicUpdate is a column 
written by CMU Health Profes­
sionals. This week's column was 
written by Dr. Lorrie Rabin, the' 
director of the Counseling and' 
Student Development Center.
Merrill Lynch Capital Markets’
Industry Leading Public Finance Group
cordially invites
Carnegie Mellon Seniors
to attend an
Information Meeting 
Monday, November 7,1988
Skibo, Room 12 
7:00 P.M. - 9:00 P.M.
to discuss the
Two-Year 
Financial Analyst Program
Refreshments will be served

---------------------------------------------------

The Far Side is a daily feature in the Pittsburgh P>st Gazette.
Waqors^----sta aaxaaart/.
"Well, thank God we all made It dt In time. 
... 'Course, now we’re equally scewed."
Non-union wagon mastersIn the hallway of the Old Cartoonists’ Home
"Man, this is ugly — sheep 
and cattle never do mix well.
Mobile hobbyists
JUST HUNK, EARTH Wf*S A 
CLOUD OF DUST 45 BILLION 
lEARS AGO... ,_________
3 BILLION VEAES AGD,THE 
FIRST BACTERIA APPEARED. THEN 
CAME SEX LIFE, DINOSAURS, 
BIROS, MAMMALS, AND. FINALLY, 
A MILLION NEARS f&O, MAN.
..TUE ACME OF ) OU, 
EVOLUTION. / PLEASE:.WtAB
BAliOON.
HE^,SUSIE, DID YOU WAVE 
ANN TROUBLE WITH OUR MATA 
HOMEWORK ^
LAST NIGHT? If NO, \
/ vim?
I THOUGHT A COUPLE OF 
THESE WERE TRICKY. CAN 
I CUECK >AX ANSWERS 
WITH NOURS? /
THANKS. WHAT D\D NOU SET 
FOR QUESTION ONE ? _
SEVEN? GCOO, 
THAT'S WHAT 
I GOT. WHAT 
DID NO) GET 
FOR QUESTION 
. TWO? I
IT'S NOT QUITE ) AND IT PRoB- 
THE SAME, J ABU WONT 
IS IT ? J SNOW FOR
'-------------X ANOTHER
MONTH AT „1 \ LEAST.
SEVEN.
pssri m
WAKE UP/ 
YOU'RE 
DREAMING:
LOOK AT THIS ONE. HE'S 
CACHING A CRUMB THAT'S 
BIGGER THAN HE IS, AND 
HE'S RUNNING.
AND IF NOU PUT AN OBSTACLE 
IN FRONT OF HIM, HE'LL < 
SCRAMBLE LIKE CRAZY % 
L)NT\L HE GETS ACROSS IT. 
HE DOESNT LET ANYTHING '-----------------STOP HIM.
EVER SIT AND 
ViMCH ANTS:
I JUST CANT 
IDENTIFY WITH 
THAT KIND OF 
WORK ETHIC.
AND MOM WONDERSs 
WHY I NEVER LCOk 
RESTED IN THE > 
MORNING. yH
Calvin and Hobbes is a daily feature in the Pittsburgh Press.

---------------------------------------------------

News and suDoiv have eeewRECAPTUPeP BV THE TCAUUCronDatSp To Foc
OverloadBy Bob Jenkins
WHATiS TWer
r .
&
arn e giMl o BBBBBB
GOTtrie FR&&L£r\ IS... 
TPAT'NO CfO£ CANRElXfc 
TO Vfc>6>R PR.O0L£n9 ? 
0y
GO A WAV'. 
JUST GO A WAV',
nr owe fWn ReL*tr£
TO R&0&LBW&,% iiMÉlIt fiSsi
LOOK AT THE EYES. 
THE GUY'S A BIG, 
SLOPPY, EMOTION­
AL IRISHMAN!
AMAZING.. 
HOW CAN 
YOUTEU- THAT?
HOW DO I KNOW YOU'RE 
NOT SCAMMING ME? HOW 
SAY POI KNOW YOU WONT 
UIHAT? SPEND IT ON DRUGS OR.
\ WORSE? INWANTIN6T0 
\ HELP, I COULD, IRONICALLY. 
ONLY MAKE THINGS^' -y^~\MRSe> y
KNOWING
THAT.
ITS ME. 
ALICE!CORNER. UNTIL
WIFE!OKAY? \
s HE'S FUMBLING.,.HE’S 
) VERY INARTICULATE... 
APPEARS TO BE MAN­
GLING HIS SEmNCES...
\ BUT HE'S GOT A BIG 
HEART... ANT? CONNECTS 
ON A VERT PERSONAL 
LEVEL-
BX0JSEM5, 100. AND 1 
SIR, YOU GOT WANT TO GIVE 
ANY SPARE H 70 YOU, BUT WOULD IT BE 
RIGHT?
OH... YEAH, SEE WHAT GOOD. I 
YOU MEAN. WELL, WHAT LIKE THAT. 
IF IDONT GIVE YOU A THEN I'M
CHOICE, YKNOV, THREAT- THEV/C- 
_JNYOU? TIM, NOT
YOU'
OJR MONEYOR
1!LL... DAMN:
IDONTSEEM
TO BE ARMED.
Ne G.B. wsFocuF
GET OFF MY.v / ¦
CORNER, LADY'
FIND YOUR.YOUR.omcmeRi
/
WELL, I CANT READ 
HIS ÌIP5—H0S TOO 
TIGHT-MOUTHED, BUT 
HIS BODY LANGUAGE 
GIVES HIM AWAY COM- 
\ PLETEIY...
V
10-29m\
WOULD YOU HAPPEN 
TO HAVE-A SPARE *18? 
MY SUBSCRIPTION 10 
THE 'NATIONAL REV/SW" 
IS ABOUT TO LAPSE'
Doonesbury is a daily feature in the Pittsburgh Post Gazette.
I KNOW, 
I'M TIRED, DUCKS. BUT 
ALICE. 1M WE GOTTA EAT.
LOK mm mis
I GET BACK
J OH. SORRY. APOLOGY 
I THOUGHT YOU ¦ ACCEPTED. 
WERE SOME GOR- HAVE A 
GEOU5 HOOKER. GOOD
^ THAT'S
OKAY, WHO'S DUKAKIS. 
THIS GUY* WHAT'S HE 
\ SAYING* \ \
HEE, H5E! THATS 
NOTA BAD RAP. 
I'M GOING 70 
GO FOR IT, YOUNG
BLESS 
YOU, 51 R. 
YOU'RE 
ONE IN 
A THOU~
THOUSAND 
WHAT*
/
UH-OH... 
ANOTHER 
I ONE...
POINTS OF 
LIGHT. I'VE 
ALREADY A1ET 
FOUR OF'EM 
TODAY!
WHAT*
\
GOOD 
MORNING, 
SIR!\
upy i THAT'S BUSH, 
WHO'S DUCKS'WHAT'S
THAT? M SMtf?
HOW SHOULD I *
KNOW? THEY GHT 
GOT THE VOL- W&UU> 
UME OFF1 READUPS, HON!
OH, THAT'S RIGHT, 
1 CAN. LET'S 
SEE... HE'S SAVIN1...

---------------------------------------------------

InkspotsBy Kurt ShawBloom CountyBy Berke Breathed
Funded By 
The Student Dormitory Council
m&rrr*¿M/my*
MAKeA W/SH.'MAKg A M5H.' I WISH...
Kft meacAN Sep ag KeepACHN6 UKEIPI0T5 Am/up women anc -me SUN NOTTS FHBe2£*
n&r \j
Look od ^nc>v*j
V|i.r
Si^-- ^orn<?iIy~fMy prints »iH comeTTj
fAH
• TheEn wV,k.[ail D. CAT I
MMXTGQLDMIUtfPltt,s,v.
e/osHu&tL. /tuexT 60U>MaN MtnES A BKJORflPHYOFOt/Komms. S3a.2¦mPeAL7...U/HYTHePMR-u/emH6 me r

---------------------------------------------------

Know your enemy, 
people... it's Charles 
Cursemind, scourge 
of the universe,et 
cetera, and so forth.
collegiate crossword
1Ï3456789,0
lb
:
19¦
) Edward Julius Collegiate CW8802
46 ------ Fuehrer11"I Got ------ in
ACROSS47 First ladyKalamazoo
1 Executive privilege 48 Strong coffee12Where Hempstead is
11 Put ------ on51 Weighed the con­(2 wds..)
(cover up)tainer13Earnest prompting
15 Anelia Earhart, and53 Asta, to Nick1'4Post-office office
othersCharies(2 wds.)
16 Auctioneer’s last54 Cried21Takers for granted
word58 "Step ------!”23Like some people's
17 Road part59 DDT and OMPAhai r
(2 wds.62 Opposite of "da”24Sandra ------
13 Celestial handle63 Rural street decor25"Reduce speed"
19 Composer of Johnny{2 wds.)27Mr. America's con­
Carson's theme64 Mitigatecern (2 wds
20 Type of poodle65 Constrictive sub­28 Chekhov play
21 Freezingstance(2 wds. )
22 Impudence29 Vegetations
26 Cuba or ArubaDOWN34------ fog (confused)
(abbr.)35Actor Young
27 Rob1 South /Vne.rican36Pod occupant
30 Actor Beatty.rodent38Certain turtles
31 Pacino and Hirt2 Break ------41Tax agency
32 Sault ------ Marie3 Gretzky's mi 1ieu42”-------your old man"
33 Green, as tomatoes4 Its capital is Doha45Shackle
35 Small gathering5 Salt Lake City49 Bowling button
37 Opera partcollegian50 Being in debt
38 Ending for psycho6 Like some verbs52Feminine ending
39 Intended(abbr.)55Miss Adams
40 Weather forecast7 Dri fted , as sand56 Ivy League school
42 Medium session8 He was tied to a57 An IIC0 (abbr.)
43 Author Deightonwheel in Hades59 School organization
44 Musical syllable9 Decade (2 wds.)60Sino-Soviet river
45 Pro10 Suffix for Siam61Prefix: motion
Here are tlie answers 
to last issue’s puzzle.
QBDHffl QHHQ HH011
ÜiRlYU-lRlSMSlElCIOfNT»!

---------------------------------------------------

Josh Ruben’s
SportspeakMen’s cross country reigns over the PAC
An SEI with 
a purpose?
Everyone at this university is 
always talking about diversity. 
The administration is always 
harping about how we have the 
best computer science depart­
ment in the country while the 
drama department is known for 
its famous alumni. In almost 
every college directory, the 
CMU population is described 
(for some unknown reason) as a 
harmony of “fruits and vege­
tables.”
Well, what about this diver­
sity? Why don’t we try to 
expand on it even further? A 
section in this very newspaper 
is called Diversions, thus even 
expanding the realm of journal­
istic endeavors (Ha!). So we 
here in the Sports Section (both 
of us) propose to add something 
to the H&SS curriculum: a 
Major in Football.
Why not? People come to col­
lege in order to get the neces­
sary training and initial experi­
ence they need in order to get a 
job out in the “real world.” Well, 
what if someone wants to be a 
professional football player?
Aside from playing on the 
team, the student would be able 
to take in-depth formal classes 
from coaches and analysts. Also, 
former and current football 
stars could come as guest 
lecturers and speakers in order 
to further educate students. But 
the class would not center on 
just the playing of the game.
Weekly class trips could be 
organized where the students 
could study the architectural 
characteristics of other stadi­
ums to see how the psyche of 
the player is affected going from 
a 5,000 seat field one week, to a 
15,000 seat field the next.
Also, current events would be 
stressed in the classes. Students 
would be required to read the 
daily sports section in the news­
paper in order to keep up on 
standings and other relevant 
information that they will be 
taking part in, upon graduation.
Final exams would include 
running the 100 meters in 
under eight seconds, bench 
pressing at least 150c/< the 
student’s weight, and naming 
every Super Bowl winner (in 
order), as well as all the Heis- 
man trophy winners since 1960.
Extra credit could be given for 
students who actually play on 
the college team and lead the 
league in yardage or tackles. 
Elective classes could include 
cheerleading or the marching 
band.
Down the road, the major 
could be expanded to encompass 
basketball, track, and even one 
day, baseball. Related fields of 
study in sports could include 
law, medicine, history and 
journalism.
Why, one day, we can have an 
entire college devoted just to 
sports: the Sports Education In­
stitute (SEI). Marv Albert could 
come and be the featured 
speaker at graduation. Imagine 
the thrill that would sweep 
through the graduates when 
they throw their caps into the 
air as Marv grunts his famous 
“Yesss!”
Wow! Then those big name 
schools won’t be able to scoff at 
us, by God!
CMU should continue its 
tradition of being a pioneer in 
the field of education and help 
ensure a steady supply of well- 
educated defensive linemen and 
point guards for the future.
By DAN HOLLAND
Tartan Staffwriter
The Presidents’ Athletic Con­
ference Championships was like 
a family reunion at Flagstaff hill 
as the parents of all the runners 
watched the Carnegie Mellon 
Men’s Cross-Country team cruise 
to victory on a crisp, sunny day 
last Saturday.
This win came easily as the 
men blew away the competition, 
tallying up an almost perfect score 
of 17. The next closest team was 
Grove City with 36 points.
Leading the team was Dave 
Supp as he came roaring down 
Flagstaff Hill in a blazing streak 
of victory as he claimed his sec­
ond PAC win. Supp first won in 
1986 as a freshman but this year 
was special as he finally got to 
break the tape in the shadow of 
Carnegie Mellon. His time of25:15 
was only 24 seconds off the course 
record but was content with a 
personal record. However, the 
cheers did not stop there. CMU 
went on to claim the next three 
places.
Senior Pat Noll'was all smiles 
after the race as he celebrated a 
successful final season running 
for CMU. Noll also ran a personal 
record, whisking through the fin­
ish line in 25:38 to take second. 
But his season is not over until 
the National Championships are 
behind him. Noll wants to save 
his best races for the Eastern 
Regional Qualifiers and ulti­
mately, Nationals, where he has 
a good chance of becoming All- 
American.
As Gary Harrison flew through 
the finishing chute, his smile 
confirmed his satisfaction with 
the race. Harrison exhibited his 
best race of the season as he fin­
ished a strong third place in 25:42, 
setting a personal record as well. 
Harrison, a junior, is also looking 
for a good race at Regionals and 
Nationals.
Sophomore Tim Berger finally 
overcame injuries that plagued 
him early in the season to have 
his strongest race this year as he 
placed fourth in 25:48. Berger was 
extremely happy to have a race 
without an injury or being ill. 
Like the rest of the team, Berger 
hopes to stay in top form for the 
National meet.
The “all-nighter” is a familiar 
word to junior Gary Meeker, but 
that did not stop him from run­
ning one of his best races at the 
meet. Meeker put his school anxi­
eties aside to stroll along the 
course in a speedy 26:04, taking 
seventh and securing the team’s 
victory. When the race was fi­
nally over, Meeker summed up 
his season by saying,“The blues is 
alright!”
Freshman Mike Damon came 
across the finish line with a pain­
ful grimace, finishing tenth in 
26:24. Damon, slightly disap­
pointed because he did not have 
his best race, could only be happy 
when news of the team’s victory 
reached his ears. With the PAC 
Championships behind him, 
Damon can now concentrate on 
the last two meets of the year. In 
addition, he is looking for another 
continued on page L12
Above: Carnegie Mellon runner Tim Berger keeps pace with Grove City 
in what turned out to be his finest race of the season. An early season 
ankle injury forced the sophomore to miss several meets.
Right: Kristen Burgard cruises in for a strong 2nd place 
finish, helping to insure the Lady Tartans of capturing their
second consecutive PAC title.photos by David Docktor
Soccer finishes tied for second
photo by Jennifer Sherer
CMU sophomore Mike Ference (white) races to the ball in the final 
regular season game against Bethany last Saturday.
By NATALIE HAWRYLUK
Tartan Asst. Sports Editor
The Carnegie Mellon soccer 
team finished its regular sea­
son last week with games 
against John Carroll and Be­
thany.
Last Tuesday, the Tartans 
travelled to Cleveland to face 
off against the second place 
Blue Streaks of John Carroll. 
CMU defeated JCU, 2-0, on 
two Eddie Park goals, and 
moved into second place in the 
PAC.
All thoughts were on 
Saturday’s game against PAC 
leader, the Bisons of Bethany.
“If we beat them, we would 
tie for the PAC title, and have 
a decent chance at the 
NCAA’s,” said Head Coach 
Nick Gaudioso.
Bethany arrived at Sewick- 
ley Academy on Saturday af­
ternoon, and left with a 2-0 
victory and its 10th straight 
PAC title.
“We had a nice season with 
only one senior on the team,” 
Gaudioso commented.
The team finished 3-2 in the 
PAC (tiedfor second with John 
Carroll) and 9-5-2 overall.
Lady Tartans take PACs...
Women’s X-country 
wins conference
By RACHEL NOBLE
Tartan Staffwriter
The Carnegie Mellon Women’s 
Cross Country team pulled to­
gether and repeated as President’s 
Athletic Conference (PAC) cham­
pions this weekend, following 
their performance at the Univer­
sity Athletic Association (UAA) 
Championships two weeks ago.
The Lady Tartans had the crowd 
at Schenley Park worried when 
Mary Pusateri of John Carroll 
University came across the finish 
line first in a time of 19:05. But, 
Carnegie Mellon’s. Kristen Bur­
gard snatched second place, fin­
ishing in 19:35 minutes.
Pusateri’s teammate, Heather 
Peltier, finished third, while fifth 
and seventh place finishes by 
CMU’s Sue Johnson (20:39) and 
Carolyn Lowe (20:57) put the Lady 
Tartans back on the right track.
Sue Sparks, finishing ninth 
with a time of 21:10, and Rose- 
anna Neupauer, coming in be­
hind her at 21:15, cemented the 
win for Carnegie Mellon. Also 
running for CMU were Lois Raska
and Francesca Crannell, who; 
times, in the event of a tie, woul 
have been used to break it.
Final scoring for the meet \va 
as follows: Carnegie Mellon (33 
John Carroll (39), Grove City (50 
Thiel (117) and Hiram (126).
“It really came down to wh 
wanted it I to win | the most. Tha 
was us. Roseanna Neupauer ha 
assisted the team incredibly. Sh 
came off the basketball court t 
run and has proved her all-aroun 
athletic ability. We I the Lad 
Tartans 1 deserved our victory. W 
have all worked tremendous! 
hard and really put our hear! 
into the race,” said Burgard.
Sparks commented, “The tea 
was concerned about the coniji 
' tition coming from John Carnx 
Yet, we summoned our strengil 
and really worked together in tn 
meet. With the depth of our tear 
the conference meet was a ¿u 
cess.”
The Lady Tartans will be tal 
ing the week off from competitic 
this week to prepare for Divisio 
III Regionals on November 121 
in Allentown.
Football ties Grove City
By STEWART LEVINE
Tartan Contributing Editor
It was a game the Tartans 
should have won, but didn’t.
Carnegie Mellon (5-2-1, 2-2-1 
President’s Athletic Conference) 
squandered three opportunities 
to score from within the Grove 
City 20 yard line and were forced 
to settle with a 21-21 tie against 
the Wolverines (3-4-1,1-3-1 PAC).
“We had a lot of missed oppor­
tunities,” admitted quarterback 
Steve Paterno. His best passing 
performance, in net yards, was 
overshadowed by his throwing two 
interceptions. The second came 
with 33 seconds left in the game, 
ending the team’s chances for a 
come-from-behind victory.
The Tartans didn’t seem as
though they w'ould even have a 
chance to come back into the game 
after an early deficit. After a sound 
thrashing of Thiel the week be­
fore, both the Tartan offense and 
defense looked flat.
“I don’t know if it was the loss of 
1 David 1 Skinner or a lack of en­
thusiasm. We were going through 
the motions,” explained defensive 
lineman Jason Dowdy. The first 
four Grove City drives ended in 
touchdowns or missed field goals.
The Tartan’s netted 41 yards on 
their first three drives, while 
Grove City built a 14-0 lead over 
the team with the PAC’s top- 
ranked offense. The damage might 
have been worse if normally sure­
footed Wolverine kicker Doug Hart 
had not missed a 37 yard field goal 
attempt.
Midway through the second 
quarter, the Tartan offense fi­
nally came to life. A generous 
spot by the referee on Chris 
Hansen’s third and one run gave 
the team its third first down of 
the game. Paterno then found 
Dean Garofola, Mike Beresford, 
and Robert Schmitt downfield for 
consecutive completions. Hansen 
then muscled the ball in from the 
three for the touchdown.
Another missed field goal by 
Hart then inspired CMU to give 
its best rendition of the two min­
ute drill to date. In three plays, 
the team moved the ball from 
their own 20 to the Grove City 11 
yard line. Unfortunately, their 
drive also stalled and Jim Kelly’s 
field goal attempt went wide to 
continued on page L12
photo by Andy w
Grove City’s Stacy Robeson prevents Mike Beresford from catchw 
would-be touchdown late in the first half. Beresford was shaken 
the play, but returned in the second half.

---------------------------------------------------

The Tartan • Carnegie Mellon • 1 November 1988Lll
Volleyball has poor outing in UAA
By NATALIE HAWRYLUK
Tartan Assistant Sports Editor
The term “home court advantage” must have
a grain of truth to it if a team can win only one 
match in a tournament and end up in the semi­
finals. The Carnegie Mellon Women’s Volleyball 
team did just that at the University Athletic 
Association Volleyball Championships held in 
Skibo Gym last weekend.
The Lady Yellowjackets of the University of 
Rochester won the 1988 UAA Championship 
title, defeating the Lady Judges of Brandeis 
University in a best of five match, 7-15,15-9,15-
11 and 15-4.
The Lady Tartans, seeded fourth coming into 
the tournament, started the tournament with a 
match against fifth-seeded Brandeis Univer­
sity. CMU had beaten the Lady Judges in an 
earlier meeting this year, 10-15, 15-13, 15-12.
Service and receiving errors hurt the Lady 
Tartans and caused them to lose the first game, 
15-5. They did not fare much better in the second 
game, losing by the score of 15-8.
“We’d play well, we’d get the serve, and we’d 
blow it,” said CMU sophomore Nicole Hanak.
Offensive leaders for the Lady Tartans were 
Hanak and junior Kris Loh, with a combined 
total of 12 kills in the match. Loh also had three 
service aces.
Eighth-seeded Case Western Reserve Univer­
sity was Carnegie Mellon's Second opponent of 
the day. In the first game, Hanak exploded for 
six kills which sparked the Lady Tartans to a 15-
11 victory. The Lady Spartans managed to con­
tain Hanak and preyed on the lack of movement 
on the court by CMU in the second and third 
games. They went on to win both games (15-12, 
15-7) and the match.
Hanak again led the offense with nine kills, as 
well as the defense with four solo blocks. Junior 
•Laurie Shumaker contributed 23 assists, three 
block assists and four digs.
; Saturday morning pitted CMU against first-
1 seeded Washington University in St. Louis. The 
Lady Bears outplayed and out-scored the Lady 
Tartans in the first game, 15-7. Senior Diane 
Watson took advantage of Washington’s substi­
tutions in the second game, reeling off eight 
straight points for Carnegie Mellon. With the 
score 11-1 in favor of CMU, Washington Head 
Coach Teri Clemens put junior All-American 
setter Lori Nishikawa back into the game. This 
simple substitution transformed the Lady Bears. 
They dominated from that point on, winning the 
game, 15-12.,
photo by David Docktor 
Cindy Peperak (17) gets down to the floor to bump 
the ball to team setter Laurie Shumaker.
photo by David Docktor
Laurie Shumaker (left) and Cindy Peperak go up 
to block Brandéis’ Naomi Takayesu in the 
preliminary rounds of the UAA Championships.
The Lady Tartans’ offense mustered only 12 
kills and four service aces in the match. Defen­
sively, Watson and freshman Deb Perry re­
corded four digs apiece.
Carnegie Mellon’s performance seeded them 
fourth in their pool, and matched them against 
the Lady Violets of New York University in the 
quarterfinals. CMU won the first game, 15-7. 
The Lady Violets threatened in game two, but 
the Lady Tartans were able to contain them and 
win the game, 16-14.
Perry and Hanak were team leaders on of­
fense, with seven and five kills, respectively. 
Watson added four service aces.
Hanak recorded five solo blocks, while Shu­
maker and sophomore Cindy Peperak combined 
for nine block assists.
This was the only win CMU would have in the 
tournament. The team’s next opponent was 
Brandeis, who defeated the Lady Maroons of the 
University of Chicago (15-4, 15-3) in their quar­
terfinal match.
Carnegie Mellon took the first game of the 
match, 15-11, but were unable to stop the Lady 
Judges from taking the next two (15-7, 15-7). 
Shumaker had four service aces, seven kills and 
16 assists in the match.
“We played much better today I Saturday I,” 
commented CMU Head Coach Sue Flaherty.
The tournament’s Most Valuable Player was 
Rochester’s senior middle hitter Diane Ulatow- 
ski, and Coaching Staff of the Year went to 
Washington’s Clemens and her assistant, Joe 
Worlund.
Members of the UAA’s All-Association first 
team were Rochester’s Diane Ulatowski, Cathy 
Smith and Elka Erter, Washington’s Lori 
Nishikawa and Brooke Hortin, and Kimberly 
Winer of Brandeis.
Carnegie Mellon’s Loh and Hanak, along with 
Peggy Corrigan of Rochester, Cheryl Sousa of 
Brandeis, Diane Stites of Washington and Mich­
elle Moy of NYU, made up the second team.
Theta Xi Fraternity P resents the First Annual..
Basket Bucks ’88
Basketball Tournament Benefiting Multiple Sclerosis
Saturday, November 19, 1988
The one day tournament will be a 16-team elimination 
tournament subject to IM rules. In addition to the 
tournament, there will be a special exhibition game 
involving the WDVE ( 102.5 FM) All-Stars. If your group/ 
organization is interested in being a part of Basket 
Bucks 88 , then call Tanya (x3965) or Keesh (x5486)
University Dining Service will be donating $.25 to Multiple 
Schlerosis for every liter of soft drink purchased at the 
Tartan Grill during the week of November 14-19.
Varsity Notes
HIRAM — For the second con­
secutive year, Hiram College is 
the PAC Field Hockey Champion.
Under the direction of the sec­
ond-year coach Kathy England, 
the Terriers recently finished 
conference competition with a 2-0 
victory over Washington and Jef­
ferson, and in doing so, ended 
with a perfect 6-0 record.
ST. LOUIS —The Washington 
University in St. Louis hopes for 
a sixth consecutive winning sea­
son were greatly enhanced two 
weeks ago as the Bears broke out 
of their slump with three straight 
victories. The Red and Green, who 
stopped a six-game losing streak, 
improved their overall season 
record to 9-8 by defeating Black­
burn College 9-2; the University 
of Chicago 1-0; and DePauw 
University 1-0.
Washington University closed 
out their regular season, as did 
many Division III schools last 
week, against University Athletic 
Association opponent Emory 
University, down in Atlanta.
' Come to Great Expectationsprecision haircutters for a look that stands out and lets you be who you want to be.
WITH THIS COUPONsave $2.00 one
Precision Haircutcompleto with shampoo & blow style
I
iJJS* November 30. 1988__ ______ atfMTSTMMj
SAfßF^TÖl7GÜARÄNTE|fi _^ "
Great Styles Start at...
wtjMTCHfcemrwiS'PRECISION HAIRCUTTERS
237 Atwood Street 
Across the street from 
Oakland Post Office 
687-3500
* BOOKS * etc. * BOOKS * etc. * BOOKS * etc. * BOOKS * etc. *
FALL '88 BOOKSALE
HUNT LIBRARY LOBBY
NOVEMBER 7 & 8 - 8 a.m. to 3 p.m.
HARDBACKS - $1 PAPERBACKS - 250
PLTO . ,„
* * * COMFY CHAIRS - $ 25
* * * OTTOMANS - $ 15 ^
* * * SHEET MUSIC
*** ART & ARCHITECTURE JOURNALS
NAME A POWERFUL 
GIANT WHO EMERGED 
FROM JAPAN TO CHANGE 
THE WORLD.
No, not that giant, but a 
giant of a more peaceful 
nature. Recruit Co., Ltd. We 
are Japan's most innovative 
computer services, telecom­
munications and publica­
tions company.
Emerging as a powerful 
force in the American 
market, RECRUIT U.S.A., 
INC. would like to tell you 
about the wide variety of 
challenging positions in the 
U.S., as well as in Japan, 
for ambitious Computer 
Science, Liberal Arts, 
Engineering and Business 
majors. Learn more about 
the powerful giant who 
emerged from Japan by 
attending our information 
session!
¦itm?tb)VilX1ithCO
t(Ì1ftt/K/Xgnolit'N
L[Í.J
I*
fj•o
£X
INFORMATION SESSION
DATE: Wed., Oct. 19th
TIME: 12:30PM-5:30PM
PLACE: Doherty Hall 
Room 1209
FOR MORE INFORMATION CALL 1-800-288-USA1 
RECRUIT U.S.A., INC.
u DivDrnratS pT sHEtirA Rpdg 3And

---------------------------------------------------

L12The Tartan • Carnegie Mellon • 1 November 1988
Tartan offense late getting into 
the game; Hansen scores twice
continued from page L10
the left.
In the second half, things only 
seemed to get worse for the 
Tartans. The first two Carne­
gie Mellon drives each lasted 
only four plays. Then Grove 
City quarterback Jeff Cass 
found flanker Travis Croll for 
passes of 20 and 39 yards, to 
extend the Wolverine lead to 
21-7.
However, that was the last 
drive Grove City would mount. 
“I Defensive Line I Coach Nee 
came in and yelled at us, and 
that’s what we needed,” re­
called Dowdy. “He just came in 
and everybody realized what 
they had to do.”
The Tartan offense seemed 
to finally get its act together. 
More precisely, the Tartan of­
fense at last put Scott Barnyak 
to use. The team’s leading 
scorer was idle most of the first 
half, only gaining 14 yards and 
catching one pass.
The sophomore’s contribu­
tions began with the recovery 
of a Paterno fumble in the back- 
fi el d. T wo pi ays 1 ater th e com bo 
worked together for a 14 yard 
pass completion on third and
14.
On fourth and two in the next 
series, Barnyak broke for the left 
side of the line for a 37 yard touch­
down score, his 12th of the sea­
son. He then caught Paterno’s 
pass on the-two-point conversion 
attempt to bring Carnegie Mellon 
within six points, 21-15.
The decision to go for the two- 
point conversion seemed to pay 
dividends later in the fourth 
quarter. The defense brought the 
ball back to CMU on their own 40 
yard line. From there, the team 
marched down the field and 
Hansen had his second touchdown 
of the afternoon. However, the 
snap on the point after was high 
and Grove City’s Ron Nanni was 
able to block the kick, keeping the 
game knotted at 21.
The Tartans had one more 
chance after the defense stopped 
the Wolverines in three plays, 
returning the ball to the offense 
on the Grove City 42 with 64 
seconds remaining. However, 
Scott Mosgrove’s interception 
preserved the tie.
Next week: When Washing­
ton and Jefferson hosts Carnegie 
Mellon, it will be an important 
game for them, but not for CMU.
The Presidents (6-0-l„ 5-0) are 
ranked fifth in the NCAA’s 
South Region and a win over 
Carnegie Mellon should clinch 
their third straight playoff 
berth..
The Presidents rank second 
in the PAC in both offense and 
defense, and have given up less 
than 11 points per game. Their 
quarterback, Pat Aigner set a 
new PAC record Saturday by 
passingforhis 16th touchdown 
in conference games.
Last season, the two teams 
met at Tech Field in a game 
termed by one writer in the 
Post-Gazette as the best foot­
ball game played in Southwest­
ern Pa. in 1987.
The teams see-sawed their 
way through 59 minutes of 
football before the Tartans took 
a 36-35 lead with a minute 
remaining. The Presidents 
then took the ball down field 
and John Ivory kicked a 41 
yard field goal as time ran out 
for a 38-36 victory.
The game will start at 2:00 
pm at College Field in Wash­
ington. The game will be broad­
cast on WRCT (88.3-FM) be­
ginning at 1:50 pm.
photo by Andy Gillespie
Robert Schmitt gets wrapped up deep in Grove City territory. The Tartan running game was relatively 
ineffective until late in a game in which the Tartans had to catch up in order to get a 21-21 tie.
The Incredible World 
of Graphic Communications 
Awaits a Few Good Freshmen!
Carnegie Mellon boasts one of the finest, most highly regarded and 
oldest management programs for future leaders in the printing, pub­
lishing and packaging industries.
Changes taking place in the technologies of these industries are revo­
lutionizing the ways we create, transmit and produce printed images.
It’s the biggest industry in the nation, and GCM graduates have one of 
the highest ratios of job opportunities per student on campus!
There are only a few GCM openings within Industrial Management, so 
learn about GCM now if you think you may be interested!
Sign up for the 
GCM Opportunity Dinner 
Tuesday, November 8
Find out how you may fit your interests to the needs of this exciting, 
fast-changing part of the "information industries!”
Call ext. 2313 or sign up in the IM Office, GSIA 206 by Friday, 
Nov. 4 for a dinner that could change your life!
Meckley confident about team's! 
chances in upcoming Nationals .
continued from page L10
three seasons of successful run­
ning for CMU.
Due to Len O’Neal being too 
sick to run, freshman John Frie­
der rounded out CMU’s top seven 
by finishing in 12th place with a 
time of26:40. Frieder, who wisely 
chose not to redshirt in the middle 
of the season, took O’Neal’s place 
as the final loop in CMU’s knot of 
victory. Frieder hopes to continue 
running through his senior year.
Coach Gary Meckley beamed 
as he racked up another Champi­
onship win. Now Meckley has 
eight successive years of victories 
at conference championships, not 
to mention the heralded record of 
99 unbeaten dual meets. In addi­
tion, Meckley’s achievements won 
him another trophy—Presidential 
Athletic Conference Coach of the 
Year. The victory at the PAC 
Championships was a great way 
to finish out a truly successful 
season and filled Meckley with 
extreme gratification.
“I am really, really happy with 
the team this year and hope we 
can all stay healthy and run well 
at Nationals,” Meckley stated 
after the meet. Meckley has en­
joyed the successes of possibly
the best team he has ever coached 
at CMU and hopes his convic­
tions hold true by running a strong 
race at Nationals.
“If we can all run our best races 
and stay up with the lead pack, 
we can maybe move up in the 
rankings,” he states referring to 
the Division III Cross Country 
Team Rankings where CMU was 
ranked eighteenth in the nation.
“We are certainly better than 
that and we proved it at the Uni­
versity Athletic Association 
Championships by beating ninth
ranked Washington UniversityB 
Rankings mean nothing,” Mecij.B 
ley said confidently. Since theH 
UAA meet, CMU has moved up tc,l 
tenth best in the nation.
With rankings aside, the real 
test will come for the Tartans or! 
November 19th when the Na.| 
tional Championships will be held) 
in St. Louis.
Meckley adds, “As long as w6i 
can stay healthy and run like wf 
have been, we will prove to th; 
nation that Carnegie Mellon caj 
run with the best.”
The London
Theatre Program
Of SARAH LAWRENCE COLLEGE and the 
BRITISH AMERICAN DRAMA ACADEMY
---------------------------------------------------------------------------A unique opportunity for collegc students to study 
with Britain’s leading actors and directors. Acting study 
and performance, supplemented by academic work. Full 
academic credit is provided for either a semester or a year. 
For details and an application, write:
The London Theatre Program, Box BCMU 
Sarah Lawrence College, Bronxville, N.Y. 10708
“The Best Place In Town For A Wing Out!”
Mike Kalina — Pittsburgh Press
Over a Dozen Sauces, From Mild-Mild to Death Sauce!!
Our Ribs? “Best in the City.”
— Mariam’s Coast-to-Coast Dining Guide
RIB HOUSE
phot b yDhanGi b urcoGsvG dkGahrRehGt
2125 
MURRAY 
AVENUE 
(SQ. HILL)CALL: 
421-WING
HELP AT CRITICAL TIMES
CMU Counseling & Student Development Center.......................................268-292:2
After 5:00 pm, an answering service operator will help you reach the staff mem­
ber on call.
CONTACT Pittsburgh................................................................................................782-4023
24 hour telephone counseling, crisis intervention, and supportive listening.
Drug Connection........................................................................................................854-0700
An alcohol/drug crisis hotline, 5-9 pm
Tel-Aid..............................................................................................................................281-4664
A series of taped information on medical, legal, consumer, and safety issues.
Lists of titles appear in the blue pages of the Pittsburgh telephone directory.
Counseling and Student Development Center, a division of Student Affairs
79-261
79-275
79-374
NEW COURSES IN HISTORY
WRITING, READING AN© POLITICS IN 
1750-1850 (PROFESSOR RESNICK)
79-377
79-415
A HISTORICAL PERSPECTIVE 
(PROFESSOR FENTON)
AMERICAN STATE AND SOCIETY:
POLITICS AND STATE-BUILDING FROM 
THE REVOLUTION TO THE 20TH CENTURY 
(PROFESSOR EDEN)
THE PROCESS OF WEAPONS 
DEVELOPMENT IN 20TH CENTURY 
AMERICA (PROFESSOR EDEN)
SEMINAR ON SOVIET SOCIETY:
POLITICAL AND SOCIAL LIFE (PROFESSOR 
GOLDMAN)
FOR FURTHER INFORMATION ON THESE AND OTHER COURSES, 
PICK UP THE HISTORY COURSE DESCRIPTIONS BROCHURE AT 
BH 240.

---------------------------------------------------

The Tartan • Carnegie Mellon • 1 November 1988L13
IM NEWS
The next IM Board Meeting 
will be this Thursday Nov. 3rd, 
at 12:30 pm in the IM Office.
In order to accomodate those 
who would like to use.the gyms 
" without conflicting with IM or 
Varsity sports, open free time 
has been arranged for use of 
the Main and Women’s Gyms:
Tuesday Nov. 1: 11:00 pm - 
Midnight
Wednesday Nov. 2: 11:00 pm
- Midnight
Thursday Nov. 3: 9:00 pm - 
Midnight
Monday Nov. 7: 11:00 pm - 
Midnight 
Fridays and weekends will 
operate on the regular sched­
ule. Updates to this schedule 
will be listed in The Tartan.
SPORTS IN SEASON
6-Person Volleyball
Commissioners:
Noland Cheung x4390 
Women Only-Grace Shields 
x5981
Check for standings. Please 
play all games as scheduled.
Tennis
Commissioner-Paul Shriner 
x5523
Finals are underway. Report 
results to Paul.
Water Polo
Commissioner-Hal Levine 
x5981
Certified lifegaurds are on 
duty:
John Bender - x4552 
Brian Jester - x4552
Chess
Commissioner-Matt Murbach 
x3939
Pick up schedules in the IM 
office. Please report all results 
to Matt as soon as possible.
Soccer
Commissioners:
Jeff Myers x5478
Women Only-Grace Shields
x5981
Because of daylight sav­
ings, all starting times for 
soccer will be moved up, so 
that the games can be com­
pleted before it gets too 
dark. All teams that play at 
4:30 should have their teams 
ready to play at 4:30 and no 
later. All teams that play at 
5:30 should have their teams 
at the fields and ready to 
play by 5:00. All the second
games (5:30 on the sched­
ule) will begin between 5:00 
and 5:15 or immediately at 
the conclusion of the first 
contest. The IM department 
thanks you for your coop­
eration.
Bowling
Commissioner-Barry Simon 
x5530
Entries were be due Oct. 
27th. Games began on Satur­
day Oct. 29th at 10:00 am. All 
games will be played in the 
Strand Bowling Lanes in 
Oakland on Forbes Avenue. 
Teams must pay bowling fees 
before their first match.
Racquetball
Commissioner-Jeffrey Cohen
681-5049.
Matches began Nov. 1st. 
Teams will play three singles 
matches and report winning 
scores to the IM Office or Jeff 
as soon as possible.
Team Table Tennis
Commissioner-JongWei x4012 
Play four singles and one 
doubles match. Report results.
SPORTS COMING UP
Bridge
Commissioner-Matt Murbach 
x3939.
Entries are due Nov. 3rd.
Cricket Darts
Commissioner-Paul Wright
682-6854
Entries are due Nov. 3rd.
Darts
Commissioner-Paul Wright 
682-6854 
Entries are due Nov. 3rd.
3-Person Volleyball
Commissioner-Jeff Myers 
x5478
Entries are due Nov. 3rd. 
Matches will begain Nov. 14th.
Backgammon
Commissioner is needed 
Entries are due Nov. 3rd. 
Matches begin Nov. 14th.
Faculty, Grad, and Staff 
Volleyball Tournament
Connnissioner-Alan Christian- 
san x8734 
Entries due Jan. 19th. Games 
will be played Sunday nights 
from 7:00-10:00 pm.
Basketball
Entries due Dec. 8th.
IM Standings (As of 10/29/88)
6-MAN VOLLEYBALL
MAJORS
BLACK WON LOSS
CGSO 2 0
NETWORKERS 2 1
ECE DRAMS 1 2
DEATH PLAGUE 0 2
WHITE WON LOSS
GSIA 1 2
OFFENS. POL. 2 0
MESSAGE PASS. 2 0
PIKA-A 0 3
INTERMEDIATES
SLEEPY WON LOSS
THETA XI-A 3 0
BIO HAZARDS 0 2
AFROTC 0 1
BEN WA BALLS 2 0
ECE DRAMS 0 1
DOPEY WON LOSS
PSYPYCHOS 2 0
ZOO 0 2
PILAM-A 1 0
GSIA-PHUD ' 2 1
KAPPA SIG 0 2
BASHFUL WON LOSS
MEAN VALUES 0 3
KSA 2 0
MBA1 2 0
BETA BASHER 0 3
PHI KAP 2 0
FLUNKY WON LOSS
SUDSUCKERS 1 1
SAE 2 0
CSOA 1 0
ORANGE DOT 0 3
USS CARNEGIE 1 1
GRUMPY WON LOSS
THETA XI-B 3 0
W/OURSELVES 0 2
DU-A 1 1
T-DEVILS ATO 1 2
BETA B 1 1
HAPPY WON LOSS
BUM LEMMAS 3 0
ME GRADS 1 1
CGSO 1 1
WOLVERINES 0 3
SPIKED PUNCH 1 1
WIMPY WON LOSS
KARCH KILARY 2 1
CSO-B 1 1
ARMY ROTC 0 2
DUDES 3 0
BOYS BOLOGNA 0 2
MINORS
USA WON LOSS
FOTO BLOOZ 0 3
HTL. SCOBELL 1 1
SPIKED BALLS 2 0
SIGTAU-A 3 1
NAVY ROTC-A 0 1
NAPOLI PIZZERIA
2006 MURRAY AVE. • SQUIRREL HILL
‘FAST” FREE DELIVERY
Delivery (or Pizza and Hoagies Only521-1744
I SPECIAL I
• 1 Large Pizza Jj*
• 1 Topping J-v
• .1 Liter of Pop ^
ONLY g
$599 =
PRESENT COUPON TO I 
NAPOLI PIZZERIA 521-1744J
Serving WINE, BEER & LIQUOR 
In Our “New” DINING ROOM 
Stop in Today!
PIZZA • HOAGIES • SALADS 
CALZONES • DINNERS 
FINGER FOODS • AND MORE
FAST, FREE DELIVERY 521-1744
| SPECIAL!
• 2 Large Pizzas
• 1 Topping each
• 2(1) Liters of Pop
ONLY$999
ir'a'dS cLbiLd SL y 
stlgv­n gnppomnl wk.D-Jes
oa3O0
1
JAPANWONLOSSDTD11 ZOO-201THETA XI03 MUTNT KRSHNA 20DTD21DU11 HAT TRICK01SPIKE01
MORALLY02MINORSWONLOSS DIVISION BWONLOSSPIONEERS22PHI KAP31 SIG TAU01WRCT20GSIA03 GRPHNLPX01
AFROTC21 PHI KAP10RUSSIAWONLOSSZOO02 EPP TOXC AVGRS 20PURE ENERGY20PIKA02 SPIKED PUNCH01COBELL STORM 02SUDSUCKERS40
PIKA-C02DONNER MOD12 DIVISION CWONLOSSPILAM SLAM30DTD-B10WOODLAWN01SOCCERDOHERTY DYN.10
KDR01BRAZILWONLOSSMAJORSWE-3-B02SMUDGE22WONLOSS NAVY ROTC-B10ZOO-203DU-A02
BAD A BOMBERS 13KSA1TIE DIVISION DWONLOSSOCRAM SELUR40GSIATIE1 PI LAM10DUDES 221SAE10 CIA10REAL MELLON10 BIO HAZARDS01CHINAWONLOSSSDC11
IFFIES30INTERMEDIATES AFROTC01
AE III02WRTHINGTNWONCIA-B20LOSS
SDC
PI ALPHA D
0
0
2
1
SUDSUCKERS 
THETA XI
1
2
1
1Touch Football
SCHLAG DP02All-StarsARGENTINAWONLOSSDTD-A10
BRATS20ME GRADS00Majors
APHIO02SUPA’S RAIDERS 00
KDR03KAPPA SIG-01Rob Bowie Crunch BunchSIGTAU-B 
NAVY ROTC-B
3
1
0
1ELDERTON
ARMY ROTC
WON
0
LOSS
2
Gary Breavniger 
Dan Crimmins
ATO
Beta
NETHERLNDS WONLOSSGARGOYLES11John SimonCr. Bunch
TIME OUT12ZOO11Jim CampATO
CIA-A21RECIP. BOYS10J.D. HeskampBeta
SPIKE MEISTRS. 02BEN WA BALLS00Bill JonesCr. Bunch
DU-B20ATO-WOLFPACK 00Barry FranklinCr. Bunch
GE DAWGS02PIKA10Joe Martin 
Chris Kosoho
Pika
ATO
WATER POLOMINORSBill Cramer 
Mark Brownlee
Beta 
Cr. BunchDIVISION AWONLOSSJeffCaringolaBetaMAJORSWONLOSSNAVY ROTC-A01
SAEDU-B
Need a break from campus 
food? Casual atmosphere, late 
night dining, and friendly 
service have established the 
Harris Grill Cafe as a tradition 
with area students. Warm up 
your winter with our authentic 
and reasonably priced Greek 
cuisine.
5747 Ellsworth Avenue 
Pittsburgh, PA 15232 
363-0833 (Takeout)
Show student I.D. 
during November 
and get 10% off!
Bring your own tapes 
and dance to your 
own music!
Enter A World Where 
Innovation is the Norm!
The world of BASF. It is an uncommon company with an outstanding 
record of achievement both in its chemical products and its people.
CHEMICAL ENGINEERING MAJORS
BASF's Technical Personnel Development Program (TPDP) is an 
innovative development program for NEW CHEMICAL ENGINEER­
ING GRADUATES who join BASF Corporation Chemicals Division. 
By moving through a variety of flexible work assignments tailored to 
individual interests and talents, graduates can broaden their experience 
while gaining insight into the job areas for which they are most suited.
Career choices should not be grounded on academic exposure alone. 
That’s why the TPDP has been designed to provide real-world, real- 
work experience that will lead to successful career decisions, while 
helping BASF to benefit from more satisfied, productive employees.
Find out more about the innovative, challenging career opportunities 
available at BASF Corporation Chemicals Division. Contact your 
placement office today to schedule an interview.
ON CAMPUS INTERVIEW DATE:
TUESDAY, NOVEMBER 15th.
BASF Corporation
Chemicals Division
The Spirit of Innovation
An Equal Opportunity Employer
BASF

---------------------------------------------------

n i n 
SDHEf
ut\i\
Announcements
Richard M. Cyert will have 
open office hours for students 
between 2 pm and 5 pm, in 
his office, 602 Warner Hall on 
Monday, November 7, 1988. 
Students who wish to meet 
with the president should 
telephone his secretary at 
268-2200 to set up an 
appointment.
Carnegie Mellon Drama.
presents “The Crucible”, by 
Arthur Miller, the haunting 
dramatization of one of the 
darkest periods in American 
history, the time of the 
notorious witch trials of 
Salem. An Autumn classic! 
Call for more information, 
Drama Box Office at 268- 
2407.
Hunt Library is offering the 
exhibit, “World War I at 
Carnegie Tech” examining 
the contributions of the school 
and the students illustrated 
with photographs, battlefield 
correspondence, yearbooks, 
and course materials from the 
University Archives. 1st 
Floor, Reserve Reading Area, 
during building hours. 
Through November, open to 
the public.
Roman Catholic Mass is
celebrated on campus at 7.pm, 
Saturday night and 10:30 am, 
Sunday morning, in the GSIA 
Auditorium. Daily Mass is 
celebrated at 12:30 pm, 
Monday through Friday, in 
CM’s Chapel (Skibo Rm. 39). 
For more information call The 
Oratory at 681-3181.
Buhl Science Center: 
“Disappearance of the 
Dinosaurs Sky Show”. The 
dinos are gone, but the legend 
lives on! Audiences journey 
to Mesozoic times to explore 
the dinosaurs’ mysterious 
extinction. Through
November 15. 1 pm - 5 pm, 
Monday - Thursday; 1 pm - 
9:30 pm, Friday; 10 am - 9:30 
pm, Saturday.
Associated Artists of 
Pittsburgh Gallery offers 
an exhibit, “The Sculpture of 
Kathleen Mulcahy” through 
November 6 located at the 
Pittsburgh Center for the 
Arts, Fifth and Shady 
Avenues, Pittsburgh.
The Playhouse Theatre 
Company presents Cole 
Porter’s “Anything
Goes”.through November 20. 
Tuesday - Saturday at 8 pm, 
Sunday at 2 pm and 7 pm. 
Tickets are $8 to $16. Please 
call for more information 621- 
' 4445.
Movies
The Playhouse Film Reper­
tory features “A World Apart”. 
Babara Hershey plays an anti­
apartheid activist who sacrifices 
her personal life to fight apart­
heid. A PITTSBURGH PRE­
MIERE! 7:30 - 9:30 pm at the 
Pittsburgh Playhouse, admission 
is $3. Call 621-4445 for more 
information.
Special Events
Academic Computing is spon­
soring a Multimedia Fair in the 
atrium of the UCC from 10 am to
2 pm. A number of CMU Faculty 
and Staff will be demonstrating 
their computer applications which 
make use of more than one media 
(sound, interactive video, and 
animation).
Sports
Women’s Volleyball faces 
Hiram College. The away game 
starts at 7 pm at Hiram College.
pm in Scotland Yard. For more 
information call3522.
The Theolog Is In. Clergy from 
CMU Campus Ministry Council 
are back at their old stand. This 
term it’s Wednesday, 1 pm- 3 pm, 
Grey Matter, Skibo. Your ques­
tions answered - $.10. Stop to 
stump them. Stop to argue. Stop 
to talk.
Educational Action on Latin 
America meets at 8 pm in Porter 
Hall room 226B. Everyone is 
welcome to come. For more infor­
mation please call John Borazzo 
at x2957 during the day.
“Some Thoughts on the His­
tory of Kristalnacht” This 
commemorative program will 
include a personal reflection by a 
survivor and some historical 
comments by Rabbi Joe. 7:30 pm 
at the Jewish University Center, 
160 North Craig Street.
Ellen Voight at 8pm in room 501 
of the Cathedral of Learning. 
Ellen Voight is the author of two 
previous collections of poems. Her 
most recent work is “The Lotus 
Flowers”.
An IBM representative will be 
in the CMU Computer Store
demonstrating Microsoft Win­
dows 286, from 10 am to 1 pm.
Sports
Women’s Volleyball meets Be­
thany College at home. The game 
begins at 6 pm.
Price for dinner is $4.25 for 
members and $5.25 for non­
members. Call 621-8875 for de­
tails an-d directions to the Jewish 
University Center, 160 North 
Craig Street.
Movies
The Playhouse Film Reper­
tory features “A World Apart”. 
Babara Hershey plays an anti­
apartheid activist who sacrifices 
her personal life to fight apart­
heid. A PITTSBURGH PRE­
MIERE! 7:30 - 9:30 pm at the 
Pittsburgh Playhouse, admission 
is $3. Call 621-4445 for more 
information.
Lectures
The History Department pres­
ents the second of two talks on the 
impact of the 1988 election. Pro­
fessor Tom Kerr, of GSIA, will 
speak on “The Future of the 
Supreme Court” in Porter Hall 
19C at 8 pm.
Special Events
Alpha Phi Omega, the National 
Service Fraternity, meets every 
Wednesday night at 7:30 pm in 
DPI 1112. Ali are welcome to 
attend.
Scotch ‘n’ Soda, Carnegie 
Mellon’s student drama organi­
zation, will be producing the first 
episode of a three-part soap opera 
called “Les Misinformed” at 6:30
Movies
The Playhouse Film Reper­
tory features “A World Apart”. 
Babara Hershey plays an anti­
apartheid activist who sacrifices 
her personal life to fight apart­
heid. A PITTSBURGH PRE­
MIERE! 7:30 - 9:30 pm at the 
Pittsburgh Playhouse, admission 
is $3. Call 621-4445 for more 
information.
“Sammy and Rosy Get Laid”,
sponsored by AB Films, is pre­
sented in DH 2210 at 6 pm, 8 pm 
and 10 pm. Admission is $1.
Lectures
Department of Electrical and 
Computer Engineering is of­
fering a technical seminar given 
by Dr. Hans Stork of IBM. Dr. 
Stork will speak on “The Future 
of Silicon BiPolar Transistors” in 
the Scaife Hall Auditorium at 3:30 
pm.
Special Events
The Pittsburgh Writers Series
sponsered by CMU and Pitt cor­
dially invite you to a reading by
Movies
The Playhouse Film Reper­
tory features “A World Apart”. 
Babara Hershey plays an anti­
apartheid activist who sacrifices 
her personal life to fight apart­
heid. A PITTSBURGH PRE­
MIERE! 7:30 - 9:30 pm at the 
Pittsburgh Playhouse, admission 
is $3. Call 621-4445 for more 
information.
“Ironweed”, sponsored by AB 
Films, is presented in DH 2210 at 
6 pm, 8:30 pm and 11 pm. Admis­
sion is $1.
Special Events
“Diversity or Divisiveness”:
What is the future of the Jewish 
people? This special Shabbat 
event, hosted by Kiruv, will be 
preceded by the normal Shabbat 
schedule: Happy Half-Hour at 
5:30 pm followed by Shabbat serv­
ices at 6 pm and Shabbat dinner 
at 7 pm. Reservations are required 
by the preceding Wednesday.
Movies
The Playhouse Film Reper­
tory features “A World Apart”. 
Babara Hershey plays an anti­
apartheid activist who sacrifices 
her personal life to fight apart­
heid. A PITTSBURGH PRE­
MIERE! 7:30 - 9:30 pm at the 
Pittsburgh Playhouse, admission 
is $3. Call 621-4445 for more 
information.
“Three Men and a Baby”, spon­
sored by SDC Films, is presented 
in DH 2210 at 6 pm, 8 pm, 10 pm 
and midnight. Admission is $1.
Special Events
The Family Concert Series 
offered by the Pittsburgh Sym 
phony Society presents works b\ 
Mozart, Piano Concerto in D, anS 
Schubert, Symphony No. 9 in C 
The concert starts at 2:30 in Hein; 
Hall. For ticket information, cal 
392-4821.
CM GALA meets at 7:30 pm j 
Skibo 12. For more information! 
write to GALA c/o Skibo Informal 
tion Desk or send computer mail 
to gala@andrew.cmu.edu.
Sunday
Movies
The Playhouse Film Reper­
tory features “A World Apart”. 
Babara Hershey plays an anti­
apartheid activist who sacrifices 
her personal life to fight apart­
heid. A PITTSBURGH PRE­
MIERE! 7:30 - 9:30 pm at the 
Pittsburgh Playhouse, admission 
is $3. Call 621-4445 for more 
information.
“2001: A Space Odyssey”, spon­
sored by AB Films, is presented 
in DH 2210 at 6 pm, 8 pm, 10 pm 
and midnight. Admission $1.
Movies
The Playhouse Film Reper. 
tory features “A World Apart". 
Babara Hershey plays an anti­
apartheid activist who sacrifices 
her personal life to fight apart 
heid. A PITTSBURGH PRE- 
MIERE! 7:30 - 9:30 pm at the 
Pittsburgh Playhouse, admission 
is $3. Call 621-4445 for more 
information.
Lectures
Science, the Military, Univer 
sities and You. Angel Jordan 
Provost, Carnegie Mellon Univer 
sity, will speak on “Defense Re­
lated Research and the Univer 
sity”. Provost Jordan will explaii 
what “defense related research 
is, and discuss the benefits th 
academic community receive 
from performing this research 
The lecture is followed by a ques 
tion period and informal discus 
sion over refreshments. The pre; 
entation starts at 5 pm, in th 
Adamson Wing, Baker Hall
10 Openings
Reliable, articulate 
students needed for 
evening work in local 
Shadyside office. Salary 
to start; potential 
earnings up to $ 10/hour. 
Call 363-4953 after 4.
Bzaaah!
-Lizard
Who are you?
-CAB
Oh, no! meets The Aerobic Bitches 
from Hell. Duet at 3:20 (am).
AJS-
You stroll, you jump, you’re 
hot and you tease. I’m your tall 
cool one and I’m built to please.
Reg-
Hasn’t this been a fun year? 
Won’t we have even more fun next 
year? I love you!
Love,
Guess Who?
Jen 952-
Don’t let a good smile go to 
waste. You’re great!
All you need in life are a guitar and 
a cab.
“Self-control is no fun.”
-J.D.
Thea-
Just a message to wish you a 
great week. Thanks for always 
being the happy person you are.
-Your kite sis 
PS: Great job with those TV nights!
“The vessel throbs like a strong 
giant that has just received the 
breath of life.”
-me
Hey Ralph! I can be 
grosser than you! Watch 
me dislocate my 
shoulder!
Why are all the good ones either 
engaged or married? If only I got a 
couple of years to work on them...
F.I.M.R.C.G.-
twenty times?! Wow! That’s
i-n-c-r-e-d-i-b-l-e!! Will history 
repeat itself w/that Phi Kap or 
Tazanian Devil?
-P.H. buddy
Liz-
Here’s on for the gipper: did 
the “amazing social kiss ass” get 
back together with stuttering Biff 
or did Sleepy Squirrel stop sleeping? 
-LN
Classifieds
Jobs/Wanted
CRUISE SHIPS — Now hiring 
men and women. Summer and 
career opportunities (will train ). 
Excellent pay plus w'orld travel. 
Hawaii, Bahamas, Caribbean, 
etc. Call now! (206)736-7000, 
Ext. 754C.
SCREENWRITERS — Film 
producer seeks, a brilliant 
screenplay. SASE Cutting Edge 
Productions, 1219 South Barry 
Avenue, Suite 4, Los Angeles, 
CA 90025.
CAMPUS REPS NEEDED — 
Earn big commissions and free 
trips by selling Nassau/Paradise 
Island, Cancún, Mexico and ski 
trips to Vermont and Colorado. 
For more information call toll 
free 1-800-231-0113 or in Ct. 203- 
967-3330.
ADOPTION — Loving, secure, 
married Caucasian couple wants 
very much to give your newborn 
a warm and happy home. 
Expenses paid. For more 
information call collect anytime 
(412) 687-0393.
RETAIL SALES — Part-time women. $11,000 to $60,000. 
positions available downtown Construction, manufacturing, 
Pittsburgh, evenings and week- secretarial work, nurses, 
ends. Previous experience engineering, sales. Hundreds of 
preferred but not required. Phone jobs listed. Call now! (206)736- 
Mon-Fri between 9 &4,683-7887. 7000, Ext. 754A.
STUDENT PROGRAMMERS 
WANTED PART-TIME — 
Experience with one or more of 
the following: Modula-2, Small 
Talk,RPG. Reply to Digital Desk, 
PO Box 79002, Pittsburgh, PA 
15216.
WANTED — Spring break 
representative for national tour 
company. Great benefits. Call 
today, (612) 784-2287.
COUNTER HELP — Full or part 
time, various shifts available. 
Apply 3901 Forbes Ave.
OPPORTUNITY IN THE 
TRAVEL INDUSTRY — The #1 
college tour operator is looking 
for an efficient, responsible and 
organized campus representative 
to market a Spring Break trip on 
campus. Earn free trips and good 
commissions while gaining great 
business experience. For
information call 1-800-999-4300.
JOBS IN AUSTRALIA — 
Immediate opening for men and
SPRING BREAK TOUR 
PROMOTER-ESCORT — 
Energetic person, (M/F), to take 
sign-ups for our FLORIDA tours. 
We furnish all materials for a 
successful promotion. Good PAY 
and FUN. Call CAMPUS 
MARKETING at 1-800-777- 
2270.
Housing
OUTSTANDING APARTMENT
— One and two bedroom. 
Walking distance to University. 
Equipped kitchen, carpet, air 
conditioning optional, paddle fan, 
elevator, security building, North 
Oakland. Monthly parking 
indoor $65, outdoor $50. Phone 
422-2300.
HOUSE FOR RENT IN 
SQUIRREL HILL — Three 
bedroom, 2 bath. Garage. 
Remodeled. Near bus stop. No 
pets. $600 plus. 731-0620/521- 
5952.
FOR RENT — North Craig St. 
Furnished, 3 bedroom 
townhouse, $395. Also, 2 
bedroom, furnished, $285. Both 
near shuttle route. Call 381- 
2081 or 751-9639; leave a 
message.
TWO ROOM STUDIO — Wall- 
to-wall carpeting, all appliances 
including dishwasher, security 
apartment complex, elevator in 
building, $200 plus electric, heat 
included. Off street parking 
available. Available Nov. 5 - call 
Lou or Lynn at 661-2961.
HOUSE FOR SALE — Oakland, 
newer 2-story brick, 3 bedrooms, 
integral garage, quiet street, 
move-in condition, minutes from 
university. 681-6604.
HIGHLAND PARK — One 
bedroom apartment for rent. 
Equipped kitchen, air 
conditioner, w/w carpet, laundry 
and storage, off street parking. 
$250 + gas & electricity. 362- 
5822.
GREAT 1-2 BEDROOM 
FURNISHED APARTMENTS— 
Close to campus. Brick fireplace. 
Nicely furnished. Reasonable. 
621-6378 or 341-1375.
Services
STILL LIVING WITH THE 
FOLKS?—Call Apartment-mate 
roommate matching center for 
free info. 621-MATEI621-6283).
PROFESSIONAL TYPING 
SERVICE — Complete typing; 
reports, term papers, proposals, 
dissertations, business, school 
resumes. Reasonable rates. 461- 
1772.
PARKING SPACE FOR RENT 
—at Fifth and Aiken. $40/month. 
Call 682-6841 after 5 pm.
ARE YOU EXPERIENCING AN 
UNPLANNED PREGNANCY?
— Birthright of Pittsburgh will 
provide free pregnancy testing 
and confidential, caring 
assistance. Please call us at 621-
1988.
CORSAGES $1.65,
BOUTONNIERES $1.00 — 
Roses $1.00, Fall leaves, cattails, 
wheat. Browsers welcome. Latex 
balloons, $1.10. Alex’s Flowers, 
687-4128 (Craig/Bayard). 
Delivery, 687-ALEX.
RESEARCH PAPERS —15,278 
available! Catalog $2. Research,
11322 Idaho, #206XT, Los 
Angeles 90025. Toll free (800) 
351-0222 Ext. 33. VISA/MC or 
C.O.D.
PREGNANT?—Free counseling 
available to help you make a 
choice you can live with. 734- 
2662.
For Sale
SKI EQUIPMENT — Rossignol 
185’s with 180 Tyrolia bindings. 
Also size 9 Nordica boots, Tomic 
poles and Cebe goggles. $250. 
268-8665.
Miscellaneous
LEARN LISP PROGRAMMING 
AND GET PAID FOR IT — The 
CMU Psychology Department is 
conduction an experiment on 
learning to program Lisp that is 
open to CMU undergraduates. 
The experiment consists of 3 to* 
sessions, each 1.5 hours long, and 
provides a brief introduction W, 
LISP, equivalent to the first 10' 
15% of an introductory Lisp 
course. No prior programming 
experience is required. Pay rat® 
ranges from $4.00/hr. - $6.00/fr 
For more information call x343^

---------------------------------------------------



---------------------------------------------------

But then they danced down the street like dingledodies and I 
shambled after as I've been doing all my life after people who 
interest me, because the only people for me are themad ones,the 
ones who are mad to live, mad to talk, mad to be saved, desirous 
of everything at the sametime,the ones who never yawn or say a 
commonplace thing, but b u r n, b u r n, b u r n like fabulous yel­
low roman candles exploding like spiders across the stars 
and in the middle you see the blue centerlight pop and everybody 
goes, "Awwwl"
Jack Kerouac 
from OntheRoad

---------------------------------------------------

CHARACTERS
Writers are generally nothing. In saying this, we don't wish 
to imply that they are no thing. Rather, we want to assert 
that they are amorphous entities, each a creative force 
asserting a perception that is at one time recognizable and 
foreign, our life and something we could never live.
In this issue is a diverse array of talent. These authors 
have only one thing in common—their madness for vitality, 
their ability to capture life using words as their medium.
They skillfully weave action, plot and theme, but it is their 
characters that truly make their work alive.
This issue is about characters. It is a journal of our 
time, of our campus community creating and recording life.
The writers included here reveal the irrefutable bond of 
fiction and fantasy to reality. Make time. Read and live. 
Experience how nothing can be everything.
LMG/JRW III

---------------------------------------------------

Her inky black bangs 
hang away from her face
in a clump. She is traveling 
to a red brick schoolhouse 
to a solid building. She 
clicks her heels—Ozzed 
to America. A nagging mutt 
nipping at the hem of her gingham
dress. She’s been plucked from the stories 
of her mother, and thrown 
into the sky in a jet.
Wagging the tailfeathers 
of her supposed dream 
under the noses of pious
do-gooders. Reunited with 
a wizard she never knew.
A queer, pale man. Ozzed
to America. Red Mary Janes 
buckled so tightly around 
her ankles, she could not 
want to run.
Leslie Wiegle

---------------------------------------------------

"Hellooo," she sang.
"Margaret, what a —" I began.
"I know I'm not due in until Monday," she huffed, 
"but I've been shopping and thought I'd drop a few 
things off on my way home." She chugged on toward 
the kitchen, ignorant of Betty's stony gaze.
"Well, there was really no rush," I said.
"Now, here are Betty's chocolates, the little 
Hershey's ones she likes, and a big bag of candy corn for 
the kids that come around tonight..She dutifully 
remembered to buy Betty's favorite candy, but somehow 
she never remembered to lift the delicate, foil edges for 
the woman before giving her a few after dinner. I think 
she followed the same list each week, an unchanging 
formula, but was oblivious to Betty's gradual, physical 
deterioration.
"Frank! Frank!" called the old woman from the 
other room.
"How's she doing today?" Margaret straightened up 
and pursed her mouth. Despite her hurry, I could tell 
she'd recently dragged a lipstick across it; the lips were 
stiff, a puppet's pout.
"She thought you were Frank at the door."
At that, she spun back into the living room and 
bustled, hands on hips, toward Betty. I fluttered close 
behind wishing I could stop her.
"What's all this nonsense about Frank?" she 
boomed deliberately into the woman's face. Her hands 
were poised as if prepared to launch into sign language. 
"Don't you understand," she lectured, "that Frank... 
your husband... has been dead for quite some time?
We won't have you living in the past, my dear. Do you 
understand me?"
The old woman nodded, a child's gesture, her eyes 
glued to the blue, bedroom slippers.
"Margaret, she was dreaming. She just woke up and 
thought — "
"Now, we can't be making up excuses for her. We 
must keep our Betty alert at all times. The mind be­
comes so feeble later on in life." She reached out and 
stuffed a pillow further behind the woman's neck, then 
tugged the blanket down over her ankles. "I'm off," she 
finished and, after patting Betty's knee, ploughed 
across the room and backed out the door. Betty still 
stared at the floor.
"Hey, thank God she wasn't Frank ! Could you 
imagine being married to someone like that?" I said.
Betty raised her face; her mouth hung in a sad, 
puckered slit. Her fingers picked tensely at an intricate, 
crocheted doily at her side; the room was full of these 
small, yellowing skeletons scattered across tabletops.
"He'll be angry with me yet," she said, "That's why 
he's late." She peered past the bushes into the darken­
ing street.
"How about if I take these rollers out of your hair?"
I suggested.
"They pinch like hell," she remarked as I began 
peeling them from her head. Cupping her hands in her 
lap, she kept the rollers from hitting the floor as I 
removed them.
After a while, I said, "Betty, you know that Frank is 
dead, don't you?" A green roller bounced to the floor.
"Yes," she answered.
"It must be hard to get used to, after fifty years of 
marriage, I mean."
"Sometimes, I think he's coming home," she said 
softly, "Ain't that awful?"
"No, not at all." I pulled a brush across her silver 
curls watching them spring into loose waves.
I stood a candle in the pumpkin, scraped clean 
completely, and set it on the window sill. The flame 
sent shadows crawling across the ceiling and a pungent 
scent filled the room. Betty held trembling plastic 
sandwich bags open while I scooped handfuls of candy 
corn into them.
"You know what we should do with this stuff? Bite 
off all the orange ends and stick the yellow parts over 
our teeth! I used to do that when I was a little kid."
"Frank had yellow teeth before they all fell out."
"Lovely," I drawled, "did you kiss him any way?" 
The question triggered scenes in my own head: kisses 
minus the yellow on the teeth; there was such a close­
ness I'd imagined our eyelashes tangling together 
until we were forced to stare permanently into each 
other's eyes, learning what kinds of thoughts lived 
there. What a surprise it had been that day to find the 
thoughts I thought I'd recognize had been a stranger's all 
along. He'd hardened his voice and said, "I don't think 
I need anyone as much as I thought I did. You're really 
intriguing, but, after all this time, I feel like I don't 
even really know you." I called him a goddamned 
coward and sat listening quietly, feeling the muscles in 
my face turn to jelly, feeling so young and ridiculous.
Betty chose not to answer me again. Hunched 
forward in her chair, deep brown shadows dancing 
across her face, the woman resembled an ancient, 
craggy gypsy. Her lumpy hands clutched crinkled, 
plastic bags; she stared egg-eyed at the door. "Did 
Frank love you?" I asked.
"I made very good chicken soup," she answered. I 
grinned in surprise at the sound of her voice. The wind 
shrieked and rattled the panes of the picture window. 
The old woman and I huddled, surrounded by small 
pouches of candy. We gazed beyond the jack-o-lantern 
into the night, our own faces glowing in its light, 
waiting for the doorbell to ring.
by Jacquelyn Quinn

---------------------------------------------------

SUBMISSIONS
Dossier welcomes submissions from any student enrolled ut Carnegie 
Mellon. All manuscripts must be typed or on a macintosh disk. Please 
include your name, address, and phone number. Due to plagiarism laws, 
anonymous literature or literature under pseudonyms cannot be accepted.
Submissions may be sent through campus mail to Dossier, do The Tartan. 
103 Skibo. or dropped off at the Tartan office, Skibo room 50.
CONTENTS
Homage to Ashley Whippet by Kurt Shaw 
Designed by Kurt Shaw
Weekend in My Parent's House by Anne-Marie Harvey 
Designed by Eric Teng
Another Zoo story by Christopher Kush 
Designed by Carolyn Warning
Ghosts at the Window by Jaquelyn Quinn
Designed by Sanford Greene and Diane Jalbert
Yin Le's Ruby Slippers by Leslie Wienie 
Designed by Rishi Seth
CREDITS
Literary Editors: Leslie Griffin. Jim Williams 
Design Editor (cover and contents design): Maria Carilu cio 
Typesetting :Brian Harrison

---------------------------------------------------

Homage to Ashley Whippet
I can hear what dogs can hear 
and what they say.
They don't know it, but 
I have eavesdropped on conversations. 
They talk about him a lot.
All agree that he was Icarus and 
That the wax wasn't just in his ears.
That his bite was worse that his bark 
and his life was short but sweet 
when in the air.
The beagles say that anything 
that tries to touch the sun 
should burn in hell.
They still tell jokes about the disc 
and how it would smack him in the face.
They still snicker when they see 
(what they think is) him on a bus.
1 snicker at them when I think to myself 
of how they never saw him on television 
because they had to stay outside.
Just between you and me Ashley,
I've seen Beagles eat their own shit.

---------------------------------------------------

painted. The style was abstract and didn't quite capture 
the concentration that crinkled up his face, but the 
colors were deep blues and purples, cold, wintry shades 
that seemed 
fitting.
I almost laughed. "Betty, what is it with you today? 
I'm not sneaking around behind your back. Besides, 
you know that since Jeremy moved to Little Falls I don't 
see him any more." The laughter doubled back and 
clogged my throat. I hated that lie, as little and white as 
I tried to imagine it. Loose strands of hair flicked into 
my eyes blurring the image of the face that hovered 
there. His hazel eyes had bounced off of mine, and the 
smooth skin seemed to cringe from me with every word. 
"There's just too much going on in my life ... it 
wouldn't be fair to pretend that I could ..." His voice 
had been bland by that time, dutifully pleading with me 
to understand.
"Oh, come on now," Betty chided, "You don't have 
to make up stories. Just bring him out here."
Leaning on the metal arms of the woman's chair, I 
spoke directly into her face, "Did it ever occur to you 
that I brought you — brought us — out here for some 
fresh air?"
"It's more than fresh," she countered, "it's freez­
ing."
"You know, some days I can't do anything right, can 
I? Do you want me to go back to school? Is that it?"
Her eyes hooked into the air again.
"I mean it. I'll leave your lunch on a tray and go if 
that will make you happy. Well?"
"Do what you want. I can't stop you." The words 
were sour like rotting apples thudding to the ground.
My sigh was lost in the wind. "Oh, you," I said 
softly, "You know I'm not leaving. Why are you feeling 
so sorry for yourself today?"
"What do you care?" The icy, slate marbles were 
melting and a tiny stream hugged a crevice in her cheek. 
My stomach lurched, as always, at the sight, and I 
picked up a papery hand believing I could comfort her 
or, at least, capture her full attention.
"I care because I like you, Betty, because we're 
friends."
"Well, I like to think so."
"We are. Nobody makes me come here to help you 
out. I really look forward to seeing you on these days."
It was true, although I couldn't seem to make her 
understand. At first, the weekends at her apartment had 
simply meant an escape from school and later from all 
the faces and things that had reminded me of Jeremy, 
but I had come to care for her, realizing how much my 
presence mattered to the lonely woman. I'd seen her 
vacant stare fill with warmth enough times to know this.
"You're really a pretty cool lady, Betty," I added 
with a grin, my earlier frustration fading.
"This wind is blowing down the back of my neck."
"Okay, okay. We'll go back into the house. I 
thought you might like to see the leaves, the colors."
"I don't have to blow around with them to see them, 
do I?"
The doorbell rang that afternoon, and Betty stirred 
from a nap in her chair near the picture window. The 
sudden chime silenced the old lady's muffled sleep-
chatter; lately, she'd been mumbling more words after >•
her eyes had closed than she uttered while she was
awake.
"That'll be Frank home from the mill," she told me.
"Oh, I doubt it, Betty. You know Frank passed 
away more than three years ago. Probably early trick-or- 
treaters." A photograph of Betty's late husband stood on 
her bedroom dresser next to a dusty, silver comb and 
mirror set. Six feet of deep gray shadows seemed to 
form the man. He wore a checkered, flannel shirt and 
the fists falling at his sides were dirty rocks. "Irish and 
alcoholic," Margaret had remarked as though the traits 
were twins. "Betty waited on him hand and foot and 
never heard a thank you," she'd whispered.
When I pulled back the door, a stocky figure 
whirled in with a gust of air; grocery bags crackled, 
clutched to her bosom. It was Margaret.

---------------------------------------------------

Ghosts at The Window
That morning, frost had clouded the panes of the 
picture window; later, they'd be clear and warmed by the 
light of the jack-o-lantem. Betty hadn't cared whether I 
carved the pumpkin or not. I'd come through the door 
cradling the bulky fruit in my arms, my hair a mess from 
the wind. Betty's own hair had been twined around bright 
green rollers, rows of round plastic cages along her scalp. 
She could remember many Halloweens and was unim­
pressed, zuedged into her wheelchair, a patched blanket 
pulled close across her thighs.
"What's wrong today, Betty?" I asked later. The 
knife I'd plunged into the pumpkin would not come 
free.
"Don't cut yourself," she said turning back toward 
the frosty window.
"You can't see anything out there. How about some 
morning news?"
"Turn that off, please."
I rolled my eyes at Tom Brokaw and cut him off in 
mid-sentence, turning him into a small, white dot in the 
center of the dead screen. The carving was coming along 
nicely, but I was making a mess and the fruity, over­
ripe smell was almost sickening. The apartment always 
had a stuffy odor, especially when I first walked in; 
once, I'd made the mistake of slicing onions in there and 
the smell had festered for months which was one reason 
I usually kept her meals as simple as possible. Frozen 
pizza from the toaster oven, a scrambled egg or two.
I'd been coming to stay at Betty's place during the 
weekends for almost six months; weekdays, I lived at 
school, twenty minutes away by car, and studied paint­
ing. My parents had been close friends of Betty's family, 
now consisting of a niece and her husband who lived 
ninety miles to the north. When these relatives ex­
plained how difficult it was to find reliable outsiders to 
help care for the older woman and asked me to stay with 
her on weekends, I agreed, telling myself and my 
friends that the days away would be opportunities to 
paint in privacy and to make some spare cash. I'd never 
expected to gain an unusual friendship in the process. 
Most of the time, Betty was very easy going. Most of 
the time, she didn't seem to care much what I did. Even 
now, Betty didn't seem to notice the smell from the 
pumpkin, and she was silent until a splatter of seeds 
and juice hit the hardwood floor.
"You should've done that in the kitchen. You're 
messing up my floor."
"I promise I'll clean up. Hey, what's wrong? You 
hate Halloween or something?"
"I don't hate it. It's just a day for kids."
"Only the trick-or-treating. Otherwise, it's all about 
ghosts and stories and mysteries. Doesn't it make you 
stop and wonder?"
"Yeah, it makes me stop and wonder why you're 
messing up my floor."
"I said I'll wipe it up. Anyway, look at this." I 
shifted the big, orange face toward her— two gaping 
sockets, a triangular nose, and a jagged frown.
"Looks kind of like you without your dentures," I 
said and she smiled slightly.
"Silly ass."
"You want to answer the door today?"
"No, you do it."
"Come on, you can see all the little kids in their 
costumes."
"We always made our own."
"Yeah, even I never wore one of those plastic, store- 
bought things. What did you dress up as?"
"A gypsy girl," she said, the faint smile returning,
"I even had a crystal ball."
"No kidding?"
"My brother's basketball wrapped in wax paper."
"See? You do like Halloween."
"It's for kids."
"So, do you want to answer the door for them?"
"No, you do it." She tucked the blanket further 
beneath her knees and stared out through the window 
which had finally cleared. A gray ceiling of clouds 
pressed upon the bony trees. She watched the wind 
scrape piles of leaves along the sidewalk.
By noon, the small, wooden deck extending from 
the kitchen was dry although the day was still overcast 
and sharp. The second story platform overlooked the 
parking lot and a ravine beyond, a scrap of suburbia im­
planted in a kind of wilderness. The black trees below 
were like giant, petrified arms pushed into the ground; 
their roots were fingers grasping at the earth. I wheeled 
the woman up and over the step imagining her eyes 
widen as the chair lurched slightly toward the rail. Her 
shoulders stiffened.
"Don't worry, Betty, I've got the chair."
"Just don't bump my elbows," she grumbled.
"Now would I do that to you?"
"They're always banging my elbows, my knees."
"Who does that?" I turned around against the rail so 
I could see her face. Her eyes were slate, the color of the 
sky; they clung to a space beyond me, as frozen as a 
mannequin's. She wasn't planning on answering my 
question. Snail-like, she ducked her head more deeply 
into the sweater tucked behind her shoulders. I could tell 
she'd been complaining about Margaret, the other 
woman who came in during weekdays to make Betty's 
meals and to do her laundry. She wouldn't say so, 
though, and suddenly changed the subject.
"Go ahead," she flared, "go back into the house! I 
know you're putting me out here so you can sneak your 
boyfriend in and be alone with him." She'd met him 
one Saturday when I'd been working on his portrait for 
a class, and he'd driven out for the afternoon. He sat in 
a chair near her and they played checkers while I

---------------------------------------------------

Weekend in my parents house
The cat bumps down the stairs to blink in the kitchen light, impossibly bright
after you and I unraveled miles 
to create this cool, empty house against dark trees.
He rubs hard against our legs, meows.
flicks on his porch light next door.expecting you, he says, thought maybe 
you were robbing the house. Should this visit be a secret?
he smiles in his beard.
We're not in some clandestine, fiery rendezvous- tonight we sit on the plaid couch 
sipping coffee, watching a candle burn low.
We sigh, overwhelmed by sudden, unmarried
middle age. I play the piano while you each dishes. John dozes
before his television, dreams mad couplings
choreographed in shadow on our windowshades. Tomorrow 
I'll water Mom’s impatients
-she asked me to, I whisper, 
sitting straight on the piano bench.We crowd into my twin bed.I expect steps
to creak up the back stairs, Dad coming up
from turning off the sprinkler, letting out the cat. The attic fan breathes
all the way through the house- my brother’s old room,
my parents' room, the night smell of lilacs pulled in from the yard
as you sleep, warm and distant, I He bloated with memory,
drinking the heavy, peopled air.
"Anne^ane HarVl'ey

---------------------------------------------------

ANOTHER ZOO STORY
P
W
o'C
03CL.v-<<D
CuOoo*c
W/l/i the aid of modern genetics, i t hud been conclusively established 
that the zebra, which was commonly thought to be a white animal with black 
stripes, was, in fact, a black animal with white stripes. The Guttmans didn't 
care cither way.
They had decidedJto go to the zoo that morrujjg on impulse. At ^
< GuttmatfTuiicFbcen inserting his arm into the box of Animal 
Crackers cereal and popping the sugar-coated animal-shaped pieces into his 
mouth. Rita Guttman had grabbed a handful for herself and was turning the 
figures slowly between her thumb and forefinger trying to figure out what 
each animal was before she ate it. Rich contentedly spooned dripping Animal 
Crackers into his mouth. He told his mother what animals she was holding 
when she guessed wrong.
“God, when was the last time we went to the zoo?” Dick asked. The 
jblder Guttmans stopped chewing and looked at each other in horror. Rich 
!&ept,8h spooning.
‘-We’ve never been to the zoo," Rita said. She moved her face close to¦ mftjeh’s and grabbed his spoon tp keep hjjri from eating. A sleeve of her 
yellow twry-cloth robe had fallen ihto Rich's bowl and began V) drintahe 
milk m®“Rtich, haven’t you ever gone to the zoo?” she asked.
Rira staung his head vigorously. “Nope.”
“We I, do you want to go, kid?” Dick asked quickly as if time were 
running oyt.
Rich swung his head again. "Nope."
“Of ¿purse you do, honey." Rita said. She noticed her sleeve in Rich’s 
cereal bowl, retracted it, and squeezed the excess milk from it back into the 
bowl.
Thejr had dressed in a hurry. Rita wore one of Dick’s button up shirts 
and an old pair of sweatpants. Dick couldn’t remember the last time he had 
worn shorts, so he dug out an old pair and exposed his marble-white legs.
Rita dressed Rich in a smart little safari outfit that was used for family ad­
ventures. She also remembered to pack swimsuits and towels in a white 
duffel bag
Dick I 
stop at the ‘
"You (
“Are yp
“Dicfc
It was'jijsually an hour’s drive into San Diego, but it took the Guttmans 
an hour anjli half because of traffic. Mr. and Mrs. Guttman were so intent 
on making up for lost time that within the first hour they had already seen the 
koalas, thffelcphant show, the giraffes, and most of the bears. Now they were 
at the zebras.
“Look, Rich," Dick Guttman commanded. He put his camera up to his 
eye but did not take a picture. “Those things used to be wild. You could go 
outside and there might be one in your own backyard. How about that, kid?”
Rich kicked the guardrailing rhythmically. He didn’t like the confining 
solidity Of hi^new green high tops. Rita grabbed her son’s shoulder and 
shook him. “Did you hear your father? He was talking to you.”
Rich stopped kicking and let his grey eyes consider the savannah ex­
hibit for a moment. The powdery dirt and sculpted rocks looked as bored as 
he was. Two zebras were standing in the distance ruminating in the shade of 
a leafless twisted tree that looked as artificial as the rest of the scenery.
“They’rp stupid.”
“You’rebeing difficult, kiddo,” Rita said. She buried four fingers in her 
frizzy brown nair and scratched. Dick’s camera clicked, the autowinder 
whined. Rich ^alked a few steps away from his parents, tucked his face onto 
his chest, anq 6egan to turn circles on the ball of his left foot.
Dick attempted to replace the lens cap on his camera. “We should have 
saved the elepliint show for last,” he was saying when the lens cap fell into a 
dry patch of weeds that were growing out of a crack in the pavement. The 
boy spotted the’cap among the weeds but thought his father had dropped it 
on purpose anc| (lid not retrieve it. Instead, he looked at the zebras again. 
They did not look. back.
"What arc they supposed to do?” Rita asked.
The camera slid on Dick’s belly and draped over his shoulder. He 
pulled a misfolped schedule out of his back pocket. “Um...zebras...They have 
western show <^ery hour.”
Rita consulted her watch, frowned. "You want to wait?” she asked. “It’s 
twenty minuses.” Rita bent down and took Rich’s chin between her light 
brown fingers. “The zebras are going to do a rodeo, okay? But we’d have to 
wait a long time, so do you just want to go and see something else?"
“I don’t t&re," F^ich said.
"Well, come on, honey, you’re going to have to make up your mind
ocated his camera in the front hall closet and tried to schedule a 
-I I to pick up film, 
can get it at the zoo," Rita said, 
ou sure?”
is there anything you can’t get at the zoo?”
about this." Rich smiled evasively and hid behind his lather who \6i$ $rl1 
reading the crinkled schedule.
Dick said, ^Wc haven’t seen the gorillatu^kid. You like the gorillas, 
right?” Rich looked up at his father, unsure. “Thev^Ttrfrfc'&fffonkevs. okay'*"
Rita was bouncing from hip to hip. The sun made her squint anci~cxpo.se 
her teeth in an irritated smile. "Well, where are they?" she asked.
“They should be next along the path." Dick answered. He inverted the 
page in his hands. “Around a curve. Is there a curve up ahead?” He looked 
up. "Yeah, the gorillas should be right around that bunch of palm trees."
"Let’s go. then. I hate just standing around." She spread her fingers. 
"Come on. Richie, grab Mommy’s hand."
The smell of the whole zoo. and the elephant show especially, reminded 
Rich of an agricultural tour his family had taken the previous summer. Rich 
had felt fatigued all day because the chicken pox were getting ready to take 
over his body. Af the elephant snow,'when-his father nudged him and asked; 
"Did you ever see anything like it in your life?". Rich, vaguely felt asTif he 
might have to battle the chicken pox again.
They walked along a blacktop path wide enough to be a four-lane 
highway. Signs plagued the path with information the Guttmans were not 
interested in. One sign said: The lush greenery that makes the San Diego Zoo 
so beautiful actually costs more to procure and take care of than the animals. 
More than I0,0(M) different species of plants in the park allow us to make an 
African savannah and an East Asian rain forest within acres of each other.
A dozen gorillas sat passively among several stacked log structures that 
looked like tee-pees without skins. They waved back at all who cared to 
wave at them. People all around were saying hello.
“Go on. try Rich." Dick said. Mr. Guttman wiggled his arm in the air to 
get one of the gorillas' attention. When one looked his way, he said, “Go on, 
quick."
Rich raised one hand hesitantly. The Gorilla raised his hairy arm in 
response while Dick lifted his camera to take a picture.
Two gorillas were not waving. They sat under one of the tce-pee 
structures enjoying a smoke.
“Where’s the lens cap? Rich, where’s my lens cap?” Rich stopped 
waving.
“I don’t know," he said.
"Rita, did I drop my lens cap?”
"I guess."
“Dam. they charge you through the nose for those things. Do you think 
we should maybe try to find it?"
Rita stopped listening. "Oh, Dick," she said, “I remember something. 
You can get the gorillas to come up to you."
Rich was twisting the focus on his father’s camera. "Leave go, Rich, " 
Dick said.
“Yew hew," Rita yelled at the closest gorilla. "We used to do this all the 
time. Yew! Hew!" she yelled again. "Come on, boy. Come here.”
The dark gorilla stood and lumbered over to the waist-high guardrail. 
Rita patted it on the head and then scratched behind its ears like she did 
when Rich couldn't get to sleep. The gorilla looked on with a grandmother’s 
thin-lipped grin. Dick snapped another picture. Rich hid behind his father 
again. People began to crowd.
"Thank you, Mr. Gorilla," Rita said. She carefully squeezed the 
gorilla’s rotten banana fingers which were clutching the guardrail. The 
animal scampered back to its mates on leathery black knuckles like a running 
paraplegic.
Rita found a cigarette and lighter in the duffel bag. She lit the cigarette 
and sucked in a chestful of smoke. “Let’s go." she commanded without 
breathing and exhaled triumphantly. Rich dragged his toes behind his mother 
and father.
The morning had been cold and misty, but the sun had materialized 
since. The pleasantly chilling morning air turned into a slow bake. Rich 
noticed he was sweating and lifted the bottom of his shin to wipe his 
forehead.
The family moved on to the large cats. They watched two lions and a 
leopard devour an ibex for lunch and decided that they, too, were hungry.
Rita had packed everyone’s swimsuit so that they could eat in the sea 
lion pool.
The smell of McDonald’s and chlorine permeated the air. The Guttmans had 
a floating tray filled with Big Macs, fries, and cokes. Rita had pinned her 
hair upward so that she looked like a brown fountain. Dick wore black trunks 
which were kept firmly in place by the weight of his stomach which fell over

---------------------------------------------------

them. Rich hud refused to take off his safari shirt and it hung down pa; 
swimsuit.
The three slowly waded into the crowdcd pool. Dick pushed the tray 
carefully in front of them. His camera floated with the tray. At the other side 
''oVYfte-powL separated^ :l floating rope, sea lions swam in slippery circles. 
agr>spbshed lazily mlQtni^at^ forever escaping the multitude of kids who 
were trying to c a t c Ir ; r 
—When they finally founthwpj.acò tcwiurdvRich had already finished his 
fries. He added flMEpackeKof^salt to hk Big MS^^i wa* his custom, and 
then tore into it with his iceff^When he finished. hc%K)d watching his par­
ents eat.
"You shouldn’t eat so fast. " his mother said with^sKnwouth full.
"Go play with the sea lions." his father said.
“Naw."
Dick put his coke down on the lloating tray. "Look, your mother and I 
didn’t bring you to the zoo to be such a load. Go over there."
"I don’t want to.”
“You do want to." Dick picked the boyiip and weaved through the 
other people in the pool. "Hold your breath." he said as he attempted to 
plunge his son under the rope. Rich fought him. grabbed on the camera strap. 
“Ler go,’? Diclc ordered.
"I want the came/a." Rich demanded.
Dick pulled the camera over his head. "Here. Go play. Don’t Jake ail’ 
pictures."
"He’s getting to be a real brat." Rita remarked when Dick had returned.
Dick bent his knees to hide his belly in the pool. "He doesn’t appreciate 
things is the problem." He looked into Rita’s navel and then squinted up at 
her. “God. do you remember how when you were real little you’d be all hot 
at the zoo and tired of your parents hilling you. and you would see the sea 
lions swimming in the blue water, and you would kill to lake a dive in their 
pool? I always thought watching the sea lions was the funnest part of going 
to the zoo, but I guess it was the most painful." Dick went under, came back 
up. lifted his hand and squce-geed the excess water off of his forehead and 
eyebrows. “Didn’t you ever want to jump in after the sea lions. Rita?”
“Of course, that's why zoos aren't going to become extinct. They're so 
entertaining."
Rich sat down on a cement step near the side of the pool next to a 
brown-haired girl in a bright pink bathing suit who was picking her nose 
with a wet finger. She didn't seem interested in chasing around with sea 
lions. Rich held the camera in his lap and silently watched the circus 
splashing in front of him. One of the sea lions swam near him and he actually 
felt its grey sandpaper skin rub against his toes.
He looked down at his numbing legs and watched them become amor­
phous beneath the surface of the water. The electric reflections of the sun 
netted the pool floor in hypnotic violence. Rich tried to follow the lines with 
his eyes and didn’t notice that he was photographing heaven in a single repe­
titious montage.
The Guttmans sat outside the changing rooms wondering where to go
next.
"We could still scare the kiwis, I guess," Dick offered.
"The parrots." Mrs. Gultman exclaimed. “We haven’t seen the parrots 
yet. Do you want to see the parrots. Rich? Huh?" She twisted Rich’s wet 
hair. He irritably pulled away and twisted it himself. Rita continued,
“They're really great. Rich. They talk to you." She pivoted to face her 
husband who was staring at the cable cars overhead. "Let’s go see the 
parrots. Dick. Okay?"
“If Rich wants to. I guess.” he said finally. Dick slid his hand over the 
top of his head as if he were frosting it with a thin layer of hair.
“He doesn’t want to.” Rita said. “But we can drag him along."
The duffel bag was wet and heavy. Dick carried it.
There was a tine of fancy black cages with thick sticks and popsicle- 
feathered birds inside. One of the cages displayed a yellowing plastic sign 
hanging from a rusty chain. It said: Sorry. I’m not in a talkative mood today. 
A drawing of a parrot shaking his head with wings folded across his chest 
accompanied the engraved words.
Dick and Rita walked along the cages trying to see over the shoulders of 
those clustered in front of them who were talking loudly and deliberately to 
the birds as if the animals were deaf.
Rich walked behind his parents watching their heels. He was startled by 
the force of an immovable leg. He felt a cold cherry strawfull of ice slide
down his arm.
Rita popped up ont«Jienijggy-toes. "Look, one is open." she declared. 
Mrs. Guttman ran up to the cage and^TtetUhj^ellowing sign off. "Come on. 
birdie." she coaxed. "Talk to me."
Rich arrived sucking the cherry syrup off of his arm.
"I am a bird." Rita said. "Hi. I'm a bird."
I'm a bird.
The pafrot .said it with identical inflection but no facial expression.
"Stand next to the cage.'H^Ick said. "Gel over there with your mother. 
Rich.” Dick looked through the camera. His eyebrows sunk. He pulled the 
camera away from his face. "What the hell? Rich, ijid ybu take all of the 
pictures?" ^ ( • ( c v
"N«h"-Rich stared back at his
"The hell you didn't, goddamnit."
Rita frowned. "Come on. Dick, we’ve got enough pictures. Talk to the 
7 parrot." She stepped forward and hooked her arm in(lus. “Come on." Rich 
resumed licking his arm. 9
Dick spoke to his son like others were speaking ro the parrots. “I think 
£s a big waste of film and money, that's all. I think it's a big big waste. It’s 
a shame to waste things like that." ¦'
“Come on. Dick, say something to the bird." Rita said.
"Rita,” Dick warned. He pointed at her but then ¿.let his arm drop. They 
stood for a while staring at the bird.
“Mister. I’ve been to the zoo." Dick said slyly.
"Oh. that’s a good one." Rita blurted to
The bird stared back complacently. "Shut up. RBa. You’re messing it 
up...Hey mister. I’ve been to the zoo."
I'm a bird. Hi. I'm a bird.
"Hey mister. I’ve been to the zoo."
I'm...Hey mix ter I'm a bird.
Rita was silent, breathless. "Hey mister. I’ve been to the zoo," Dick said 
again.
Hey mister. I've been to the zoo.
Mr. and Mrs. Guttman laughed. Rich even smiled. Rita touched her 
son’s shou^r. "See. Rich, isn’t that cool?” Rich stepped forward and 
touched the cage with the fingertips of both of his hands.
“Go on, say something.”
“Maybe you could tell the bird why you wasted all my film,” Dick 
angrily suggested.
Rich didn’t say anything at first, only stared at the bird. He took in a 
deep breath, tightened his lips, and then yelled what he |ad decided to say.
There was something in the pitch and volume that set Dick off. He 
pulled his hand back and hit Rich on the back of his cold wet shirt. He dug 
his thumb into the boy's shoulder to keep him from escaping. Rita sighed, 
looked on. The startled parrot whipped around inside its cage. Soft white 
feathers drifted out between the bars and fell to the ground as Rich began to 
wail. Dick lifted his reddening hand again, then again. Each time he hit Rich, 
the child coughed out a guttural response that made him sound like a 
skipping record. When Dick finished, he looked up at the parrot, his eyes 
smarting. ••
Rita jjut her arm around Rich. “Let’s just leave, okay?” she said. “Go 
get the ci$.”
“Don’t take his side. He deserved it. You know he deserved it all day." 
Dick tried to hold onto his anger but it flew from him.
Rich grabbed his mother’s waist and bawled into her shoulder. She 
rubbed his shoulder. “I think he got too much salt in his lunch. I should have 
said something."
Dick felt an impulse to grab his son and ask for forgi&ness.
"Go on. Dick. Meet us at the pharmacy at the west gate with the car.
I’m going to get him some Pepto."
Dick turned and shuffled away. Rich twisted his head around and 
watched his father become smaller like Bugs did at the end of cartoons 
before the red circle closed in and got him.
Rich grabbed his mother’s hand. He screwed a knuckjle into one of his 
watery eyes. His mother leaned down and pressed her lipsjagainst his ear. 
"Don’t b(|jafraid to cry,” she said and began to maneuver ^ijn through the 
oncoming people.
The parrot kept saying it, even after the zoo had closed for a San Diego 
evening. A perturbed bird trainer put the yellowing sign back on the cage 
after calling the parrot a broken record.
“No.” the parrot said defiantly, and then in a lone as sharp as its beak, “I 
don’t want^o say anything.”
