<Tfic Carnegie 3Tartati
Men must be at liberty to 
say in print whatever they 
have a miud to say, pro­
vided it wrongs no one.
—CHARLES A. DANA
VOL. 29, No. 5CARNEGIE INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY, PITTSBURGH, PA.TUESDAY, OCTOBER 25, 1932
itJNCIL TO 
HOLD DRIVE 
ONCAMPUS
ds Will Go To Over 
Seventy Agencies 
In Pittsburgh
1NTRIBUTION OF 
iE DOLLAR ASKED
iss Representatives Will 
Iarulle Drive; John P. 
Hiltz, Chairman
Night School Enrollment For 
Year Shows Expected Decline
Night College Of Industries Shows Greatest Loss 
While Other Colleges Hold Closer To Figures 
For Registration Total Of Other Years
Ihe Welfare Drive,, sponsored by 
Student Council, will begin on 
Carnegie campus on November' 
d will continue until November 
l’his drive, the only one of its 
I sponsored by Carnegie, is 
of the national movement to 
.gurelief for unemployment and 
sill charitable organizations. 
r1^ Thomas S. Baker, in com- 
Jng on the drive, stated, “It 
(been customary for Carnegie Xer its services to the annual are .campaign. The students i always been willing to help, 
it is to their credit that they i done so; I am certain that ¦ will again this year donate r full share.”./ery students is requested to .tribute at least one dollar, e drive will be handled through as representatives, there being person in each class who will lect all contributions of' that rtlcular group. A card on -which 11 appear the name of the stu­nt will be given to him, and he it return it with his donation, is hoped that the sum raised 'Allegheny County will exceed quota. This money will be tributed to over seventy differ- agpneies in the city of Pitts- lh;; and'will also go towards! i relief of unemployment •oughout the country. John Pi :tz, chairman of the drive . appointed a committee of four,< from each college, to take Vge of the collections jn their .,ective schools. This commit- includes James E. Halferty, •oge of Engineering-1' Edmund jfcCormick, College of Indus- 
i; Rosemarie Saxton, College of ! Arts; and Jean llitzel, Mar- lt Morrison.
M it is the object of the Wel- 3 Drive Association to serve the n and women of Carnegie, rev- idless of creed, in every possl- • way, and to surround the stu- s with such' iniluenco as shall them to live successful lives, VY” Is asking the students to procate in donating what they to aid others.
The1 registration figures obtained from the Registrar’s office indi­cate that the enrollment in the night college at Carnegie will be under that of last year. The num­ber of students registered at the time these figures were obtained shows that there were' 585 entered in the Night College of Engineer­ing, 791 in the Night College of In­dustries, and 420 in the Night Col­lege of Fine Arts. These figures will be changed materially at the end of the semester since registra­tion for some of the courses is still open and will continue until the', 
classes are filled.These figures contrasted with 
those of day school indicate that while the enrollment’ in the day 
classes remained normal, or nearly so, a drop of upwards of 900 is re­vealed in the night school. This drop is not to be wondered .at since
there are several factors which en­ter into the enrollment of the night 
students. One of the chief reasons is that a great number of the stu­
dents are engaged in full time em­ployment during the day, but be­cause of the curtailment and re­trenchment in the business world their earnings have been considera­bly reduced and their economic status is such that enrolling in a 
night course in most cases has to be deferred.The courses offered at night serve many groups and classes of students. They are in essence more or less special since the stu­dents may take, in most cases, the subjects which fit their particular needs. Then too, college graduates are afforded opportunities of spec­ializing in a particular field which will supplement their daily occu­
pation.
“ANN VR00ME” 
OPENS DRAMA 
DEPT. PROGRAM
Newly Revised Script 
To Be Used; Cast 
Is Announced
COMING EVENTS
¦sday, October 25: 
moral Assembly, Carnegie Mu­sic Hall, 11:30. 
dltical speaker, Mark Shields, 
nesday, October 26: 
raw Ballot for Presidential Election in all 9:30 classes, 
hi Mu Alpha Tea Dance, This­tle Hall, 1 to 6. 
pience Club Initiation Dinner Margaret Morrison Recreation Hall, 5 to 10.
'.ay, October 28: 
sn’s Dormitory Dance, Thistle Hall, 9 to 1.
elion Hall Dance, Mellon Hall, 9 to 1.
>ta Pi Formal, Stanton Heights Country Club.
.rciay, October 29: 
jotball Dance, Thistle Hall, 9 to 12.
;pha Kappa Psi Formal, Max­ine Piekarslci’s home, 9 to 12
Science And 
Art Devotees 
Hold Program
Entertainment Given At 
Allegheny Observatory 
Next Thursday
The Academy of Science and 
Art, a local intellectual organiza­
tion founded for the purpose of the 
advancement of science and art 
in the Pittsburgh .district, will pre­
sent the second of its educational entertainments of the 1932-33 sea­son Thursday evening at 8:15 In the Allegheny Observatory, which is located in Riverview Park, North 
Side. In case of cloudy weather, the Astronomical Section of the Academy has made arrangements 
for a lecture to be given by one of the observatory officials.Each Thursday evening, com­mencing last Thursday and contin­uing for fifteen consecutive weeks, the Academy will present a lecture or motion picture program concern­
ing some topic of universal inter­est. These entertainments will be given by many well-known men, some of whom are from Pittsburgh. 
They will all be held in the Carne­gie Music Hall. IThe Academy, among whose 
members, are Andrew W. Mellon, United States Ambassador to England; Dr. E. R. Weidlein, Di­rector of the Mellon Institute, and 
Samuel M. Kintner, vice president of tile Westinghouse Electric and Manufacturing Company, is divided 
into several sections which study various branches of art and sci­ence. A few of these are the Pho­tographic Section, the Astronomic­
al Section, and the Cinema Section.The members of the Photo­graphic Section meet once each month at various places and study the phases of the photographic art. The Photographic Salon, which- is held in the Art Gallery of the De- (ContinuQd on Page Six)
RE-SIGNED
Printing Department 
Receives Large Gift
Through the' courtesy of Mr. W. 
M. Stuckeman ’33, a graudate of the Department of Electrical En­gineering, the Department of Printing has received a valuable donation from H. B. Rouse & Co., Chicago. The gift is a Rouse 
vertical rotary Miterer, complete 
with a micrometer stainless-steel composing stick. The combined 
value of the equipment is about $256.00.
telligence Tests Show Freshman 
Mental Rating Has Not Changed
jshmen often puzzle over the 
ise of those bewildering Intel- 26 Tests which they are re­el to take soon after entering (igie. They wonder if the De- ient of Psychology and Edu- i really grades' and files those ’ous answer books. Yes, the ? of the tests are important0 reasons. Thoy rate each (dual student on a scale for ctlng his scholarship; and facilitate a class rating by arisoh with results of previ- rarirs. They are compared al- Itli established standards for ;e students.) Department of Psychology ’farther than merely predict- student’s intelligence by the1 of the tests. It places tho 5 of individuals in the hands 
ulty advisors and heads of ¡ments where they will be of Benefit to the student. The 3 do more than simply pre- 
iiccess and locate for special ton students likely to en- |r difficulties. They are usedstudents in making a suc- )f their college work. Ad- and department heads fre- 
y consult these ratings when sting plans for study pro­to students, outside work, ing' subjects, and scheduled
Then, in rating the freshmen as a group in comparison with other classes, there is found to be very little difference in ability from 
year to year. The mental quality of classes since 1926, when the present tests were instituted, has changed but little. The average scores are tabulated as follows:1927-28—Two and half per cent below that of 1926-27.1928-29—One half per cent above that of 1926-27.1929-30—Four per cent below that of 1926-27.1930-31—Two per cent above that of 1926-27.1931-32—One and half per cent above that of 1926-27.1932-33—Two and half per cent 
above that of 1926-27.There are practically no sig­nificant differences involved dur­ing all these years; since any var- 
iation of less than two per cent is of no consequence because of sta­tistical factors involved.
The Intelligence Tests are given under the supervision of Dr. Max Sclioen, head of the Department of Psychology and Education. The tests used are the Carnegie Mental Ability Examinations compiled by Profoccnr Plpeton, and the Carne­gie High School Mental Achieve­ment Examination, compiled by Dr. Schaffer and Professor Cleeton.
BILLY WEIXEL
Billy Weixel, whose rhythmic dance orchestra will furnish the music for the Temple-Carnegie Football Dance next Saturday 
evening in Thistle Hall.
Billy Weixel Will 
Play At Football 
Dance Saturday
The genial Billy 'Weixel and His Famous Orchestra were so enthu­siastically received at the Wash­ington arid Jefferson Football Dance two weeks ago, that, the committee in’ charge of Temple Football Dance in Thistle HalL next Saturday • evening has made rangements to have him play for this fifth Saturday evening foot­ball dance of the present school year.
This orchestra, which played all summer at Bemus Point and Van Buren Bay in New Yoik, has al­ready been signed for this year's 
Intercollegiate Ball to be held in the Hotel William Penn on Christ­mas evening. In addition to play­ing for many prominent college so­cial affairs, Billy Weixel has broad­cast over both the National and Columbia Broadcasting chains, well as over four of the Pittsburgh radio stations.
The admission price for the dance will be the usual §1.00 a cou­ple charge. Dancing will continue from 9 to 12 o’clock. The football dances are sponsored >by Dragons, men’s senior class honorary so­ciety.
At the Notre Dame Football Dance last Saturday evening card tables and cards were placed in the foyer for the chaperones for the first time this year. Several dozen additional chairs were also placed around the floor to accom­modate the dancers between dances.
By ROY MINET
Instead of the play previously 
announced, “Ann Vroome” by 
Lewis Beach will open next Friday 
evening in the Little Theater un­
der the direction of Professor 
Chester Wallace. Six evening per­
formances will be given through to 
Thursday, November 3, with a 
matinee performance on Thursday.
The plays of Lewis Beach are a 
little different than those of most 
Broadway playwrights in that they 
interpret and study.American life 
sincerely rather than in the usual 
stereotyped theatrical manner.
Ann Vroome” has been pro­
duced. once professionally. The 
performances to be given by the 
Department of Drama will use a 
text recently revised by Mr. Beach. Such interest has been shown in this new version that “Ann Vroome” probably will be produced again professionally.Technically, the seven scenes called for in the script involve the solution of difficult staging prob­lems. To facilitate these scene 
changes, use will be made of two triangular platforms mounted on casters to which the scenery for several sets will be fastened. Models of two of the interior sets used in this production, ruade by Mr. Weninger, will be shown at the Carnegie Institute Art Exhibit next .month.'Margaret P. Goldberg is the book-holder and assistant to the director. The cast of players is as follows: Ann Vroome—Fern G.Ball, Dorothy M. Devlin; Boyd Holliday—Charles S. Frost, Wil­liam E. Roos;, Wilitred Vroome— DeLisle Crawford. Raymond M. Neyhart; Dora Vroome—Viola J. Sayles, I-Iarriette J. Weiler; Sophie Branch—Marcia E. Leety; Mrs. Branch—Mary A. Miller; Martha Scudder—Jean Dahl, Jean Speller; Gertrude Vroome—Henrietta Sis­kin; Fred Vroome—Edward F. Kelly; Philip Vrooirie—Edwin Cop­per, Edward V. Iiarmle; Dav.id Mc­Kee—William G. Bales, William F. Haviland; Dorothy Tolman — Louise E. Amsler; Guy Spalding- 
Boyd S. Crawford; Margot Bahr— Marie E. Noir; Nell Lawlor—Wal­ter H. Derdeyn; Sheila Kent— Audrey L. Kelley, Patti Littell; Wells Catlin—J. Regis Joyce; Mrs. Kent—Janet Patrick; Roderick Dean—Donald J. Gallagher; Mar­garet Fox—Irene A. Cyphers.William G. Beal is stage man­ager, assisted by Helen B. Sisen- wain. Edward J. Palkot. Barry Mulligan, and Mary Hamilton are in charge of the lighting. William G. Behrse, Sue Bennett, Betty Lev- inger, Marjorie M. Eschelman, and George A. McCalmon are responsi­ble for the properties used. The scene painting was done by Vernon Crane and Jean Speller.
Former Tartan Editor 
On Staff Of Magazine
Harry D. Kolb, editor-in-chief of the Tartan last year, lias recently been appointed assistant editor' of 
The Temple, official magazine of the Phi Kappa social fraternity. Mr. Kolb is doing graduate work at the University of Michigan un­der a fellowship given by this fra­ternity.
Election Today For 
Freshman President
A special election to choose the president of the freshman class in the College of Fine Arts will be held today in the main foyer of the Arts school from 11:30 to 1:30.
This election is being held 
because of a tie in the election for president last week. Ac­cording to a Student Council rule, all elections resulting in a tie must be held again.
The two candidates for the office are Ernest C. Wilden- berger and Thomas Bernardi.
Puppet Dedicated 
To Military Ball
The Military Ball Number of the 
Carnegie Tech Puppet, advance 
guard for the dance from which it 
takes its name, is out today.
To correspond with the spirit of 
the Army, Puppet has appropriate­
ly decorated this number in brown, 
the R. O. T. C. color of Carnegie, 
and although no names are men­
tioned there are quite a few 
guesses in this issue as to "which 
girls, in the estimation of the sol­
diers, are most worthy to be hon­
orary cadet officers.
This month the feature artist of 
Puppet is Art Silverblatt, editor- 
in-chief of the cheer leaders’ sec­
tion in Judge Magazine. His ar­
ticle is written on “The Art of 
Cutting In.”
Puppet has also a new style ar­
ticle in “A La Mode.” Formerly 
this section was of interest only 
to the women, but it will now ap­
peal to the men as well.
Castle Nova 
Will Play At 
Dorm Dance
CARNEGIE CITES 
211 STUDENTS 
ON HONOR ROLL
List Is Largest Since 
First Announcement 
Two Years Ago
Y.M.C.A. To Hold 
Meeting Nov. 17
On Monday, November 7, the Y. W. C. A. will hold the second of a series of religious discussions in the Margaret Morrison Recreation Hall with a representative of the Catholic Church from St. Paul’s Cathedral as the speaker. A pro­gram of Catholic music is being planned to suppleriient the speak­er’s explanation of his religion.Dr. Goldenson, the eminent Pitts­burgh rabbi, will speak to the group at the next meeting in De­cember. This meeting will be of special interest, for the Carnegie “Y” is one of the few associations 
of its type that has a Jewish rep­resentative on its cabinet.A tea for all freshman girls, will 
be held some time before Christ­mas; and a Freshman Cabinet, modeled after the Senior Cabinet, will be formed from the freshman
Dormitory Men Promise 
Novel Refreshments 
And Decorations
The annual Fall Dance given by 
the Men’s Dormitory Council will 
be held this Friday in ThistleHall. George' Sillman’s popularCastle Nova orchestra will furnish the music. This orchestra is well known throughout the country for its excellent dance music and comes here directly from a. long engagement at Waldamere Beach at Erie.Thistle Hall will be richly deco­rated in a manner appropriate to the Hallowe’en season, and al­though the committee for thedance has refused to divulge what will be served as refreshments, they have promised something unusual along the line of the much- discussed presidential campaign problem. Special features have been promised both on the part of the dormitory men and on the part . of . the orchestra.Dormitory men will be admitted free of charge, on display of their 
dormitory room receipt. Those not living in the dormitories who de­sire to attend the dance may se­
cure their tickets at the door or from members of the committee at the rate of $1.00 per couple.Chaperones for the dance will be Dean Mary W. Green, Dean and 
Mrs. Arthur W. Tarbell, Professor and Mrs. Robert B. 'Leighou, Dr. and Mrs. John H. Neelley, Director and 
Mrs. Arthur C. Jewett, and Miss Elizabeth Helm.The committee in charge of rangements consists of Leslie P, Parmele, chairman, Carl F. Han­son, Martin, D. Graw, Albert O. Jenkins, and B. J. Aimone.
Western Penna. 
Girls’ Deans Meet
A meeting of the Western Penn­
sylvania Association of Advisors of Girls and Deans of Women was held last Saturday morning at 9:30 o’clock at the Schenley Hotel.Dr. Benjamin Graham, Superin­tendent of Schools in Pittsburgh, addressed the assembly on “The 
Work of Deans of Girls in High Schools.” Miss Helen Rush of the University of Pittsburgh spoke on “Social Adjustments of College Freshmen.” After the meeting a 
luncheon was held at the hotel.Dean Green, who is the presi­dent of the association, in explain­ing the purposes of the association stated, “We are interested prima­rily ' in the social development of the lives of young people. It is our purpose, to help build them and to direct them to the road where
Mark Shields Speaks 
At Political Assembly 
In Carnegie Music Hall
Two hundred and eleven stu­
dents, representing nine .per cent 
of an enrollment of 2,326, were 
cited for honors on the basis of 
their gracles for the second semes­
ter of last year, a report from the 
Registrar’s Office indicates.
The list is the largest since the 
publishing of the Honor Roll be; 
gan two years ago. “This,” accord­ing to Alan Bright, registrar, “is an
See Page 3 for Complete Honor Roll
indication of the stimulated effort being put forth by students in 
hard times.” The report for the first semester of last year listed 170 names: the -second semestei’ 
of 1930-193, 207; and the first se­mester of 1930-1931, 134.The College of Fine Arts led in the representation by schools with a total of 73 named. The College of Engineering followed with 65, and then in order came Margaret Morrison, 44; Engineering and In­
dustries freshmen, 16; College of Industries, 7; and Carnegie Libra­
ry School, 6.The senior class with a total of 
79 lead in the distribution by classes. The representation'in the other classes was as follows: ju­nior, 48; sophomore, 51; and freshman, 33. These are based on class standings last semester.The distribution in the College of Fine Arts was as follows: se­nior, 26; junior, 12; sophomore, 
26; and freshman, 9.The class figures in the College of Engineering were: senior, 34; junior, 16; and sophomore, 15.In Margaret Morrison, the divi­sion. was as follows: senior, 17; junior, 11; sophomore, 9; and 
freshman, 7.Two seniors and five juniors were named from the College of Indus­
tries.The Library School total includ­ed four juniors, one sophomore, 
and one freshman.Four students earned perfect grades for a factor of 6.00. They (Continued on Page Three.)
P. & D. Graduates 
To Hold Exhibit 
Of Art Works
girls who are interested in the they can get the best out of what 
work of the Y. W. C: A. ‘life has to offer.”
CAMPUS PERSONALITIES
To Dr. Thomas Stockham Baker, 
able president of Carnegie, goes the credit for making the world “coal conscious.” Three interna­tional conferences under his direc­tion on bituminous coal attracted the attention of the world’s fore­most fuel technologists. These con­ference were held at Carnegie and their pub- 11 s li e d pro­
ceedings form the coal indus­try’s “bible.” D r. Baker was born in A b e r d e e n, 
Md. I-Ie start­ed as a police repo r ter on 
the Baltimore News and 
later was the music critic for the Balti­more Sun. Dr.
Dr. Baker Baker receiv­
ed his A. B. and Ph.D. degrees at Johns Hopkins University. He did graduate ¦work at the University of 
Leipzig in Germany. Among his
honorary degrees, he has an LL.D. from the University of Delaware, Sc.D. from Duquesne University 
and Lafayette College. He has spent much of his time abroad, and 
has often lectured in Germany and France. On his return to the United States lie became a lecturer at Johns Hopkins and later the headmaster at Jacob Tome Insti­tute. Dr. Balter knows enough Spanish to enjoy a bull fight and enough Italian to enjoy the opera.In 1920, Dr. Baker same to Carne­gie as secretary to President Ar­thur A. Hammerschlag. 1-Ie was 
made president in 1922. Magazines and periodicals have contained 
many articles on European litera­ture'written, by Dr. Baker. Sports 
and exercise have their place in the president’s program. He walks four miles each day and has a daily swim in the Pittsburgh Ath­letic club pool. In his school days Dr. Baker was a boxer and could 
hold his own in a game of tennis. He is extremely fond of the the­ater and is a regular attendant at the Little Theater at Carnegie. He (Continued on Page Three.)
An exhibition of the work of for­mer Carnegie students of the De­
partment of Painting and Decorat­
ing will be held in the Carnegie Institute Galleries from November 3 through December 18. About sixty former- students, representing classes from 1912 through 1931, liave been invited to exhibit. Ap­proximately two hundred works, selected from all over the country, will be on display.The exhibit will furnish an ex­cellent cross-section of the profes­sional work being done by Car­negie graduates. Paintings in oil and water, advertising drawing, il­lustration, decorative and indus­
trial design, graphic .arts, stage design, ceramics, craft and work will be shown.Many of the exhibitors are fami­liar to Pittsburgh art circles. Fif­teen are members of the Associat­ed Artists of Pittsburgh and many have exhibited in the annual art displays. Members of the group who will be represented are Clif­ford Allan Bayard, Grace L. Ham­ilton, Bertha Gill Johnston, Ralph T. Lias, Lillian Kimbal Miller, Veraer Purnell, Wilfred A. Readio, Samuel Rosenberg, Margaret Ruse, Mildred Floyd Schmertz, Jeannette Shirk, Raymond Simboli, Rachel McClelland Sutton, Estlifer Topp Edmonds, and Virginia F. Wallace.Other Pittsburghers who will ex­hibit include Dorothy L. Bugher, Catherine Eisaman, David Fraser, Mary Waugh King, Robert Lepp.er, Mary Shaw Marohnic, Will V. Mat­thews, Wesley Mills, Vincent N bert, Milan Petrovitz, Howard Rathmari, Horace Riggs, William Shulgold, Sidney G. Warner, Lloyd Weninge, Janet Decoux, A. L. Pitassi, Russell G. Twiggs, Ray­mond Baxter Dowden, and Dorothy 
Schmalhorst Mulloy.
Change In Rehearsals 
For Men’s Glee Club
In order to eliminate Sunday afternoon rehearsals of the Carne­gie Men’s Glee Club, the schedule lias been rearranged. Rehearsals will now be held every Tuesday afternoon at 4:30 in Room 157 in the College of Fine Arts, and Wednesday evenings at 7:00 in the Margaret Morrison Assembly I-Iall This modification in schedule was made in order to make attendance at rehearsals less difficult for members of the Gleé Club who commute, and to induce more stu­dents to join the club.Officers of the club, under the direction of Wilfred R. Uffelman, student manager, are planning an interscholastic tour. These of­ficers are: Anthony F. Noce, stu­dent director; William L. Wieg- man and John M. Harvey, as­
sistant directors; John F. Bray, librarian; and Donald R. Fundis. secretary.
GUEST SPEAKERDelta Skull P resents 
Prominent Writer In 
Platform Review
R. L. MAURER PLAYS 
NOVEL INSTRUMENT
MARK SHIELDS 
Mark Shields, political writer of the Pittsburgh Sun-Telegraph, will 
present the. platforms of the Re­publican, Democratic and Socialist 
parties at a General Assembly at 11:30 this morning in the Carnegie 
Music Hall.
Results Show 
Tantum, Lord 
Plebe Heads
Tie For Presidency Of 
Fine Arts; Seniors 
Choose Cooper
As the result of the freshman 
elections which were held in all 
colleges last Tuesday, Horace Tan- 
turn is president of the freshman 
class of the Colleges of Engineer­
ing and Industries, Mary Lord is 
president of the freshman class of 
Margaret Morrison, and Ernest C. 
Wildenberger and Thomas Ber­
nardi tied for the same ofHce in 
the College of Fine Arts.
In the Colleges of Engineering 
Industries John Provost was elect­
ed vice president; Donald I-Ier- 
shey was elected secretary, and 
George Rial was elected treasurer.
The office of treasurer of the 
freshman class of Margaret Morri- 
con will be filled by Evelyn 
Shields. Dorothy Stevens was
elected senate representative, and 
Susan Clarke, social chairman. No 
vice president was elected in this 
class.
Sue Fuller W£S elected vice pres­
ident of the freshman class in the 
College of Fine Arts. Evelyn J. 
Leighou is secretary of the class 
and James Hughes is treasurer.
Two special elections were held 
at the same time in Margaret Mor­rison. Betty Cooper was elected representative of the senior class to Student Council, and Alice Henzi, Frances Schultz, and Lo­retta Conlin were chosen from the junior class to be assistant secre­taries to Student Council. Next year one of these three secretarial students will become secretary to 
Student Council.All elections were under the su­pervision of Student Council.
Druids And Cwens Assemble 
And Conduct Freshmen 
In Body To Hall
By PETER V. PAULUS
There will be a general assem­
bly today at 11:30 in the Carnegie 
Music Hall. Thé assembly is be­
ing held for the purpose of pre­
senting to- the student's' the views 
of Mark Shields, Political Editor 
of the Pittsburgh Sun-Telegrapli, 
on the platforms of the three 
major political parties.
Mr. Shields lias been managing 
editor of several newspapers throughout the country, and is considered one of the best, political commentators in Pennsylvania. He covered both the Republican and Democratic National Conven­tions in Chicago and also the spe­
cial sessions of the legislature. In obtaining Mr. Shields, Delta Skull, Ji^nior ,class honorary, hopes to give to the students a knowl­edge of the three political plat­forms in order that they may vote intelligently In the Tartan Poll.Delta Skull, under the general supervision of Josef Lentz, presi­dent of Student Council, is direc­ting this assembly. The commit­
tee in charge consists of Samuel C. Wicks, chairman; Charles F. Slater; Charles É. Davis and Llb- bus Lewis.Musical entertainment will be furnished by Robert L. Maurer, of the Department of Drama, who will play a theremln, an instrument 
known as the electric voice, which will no doubt amuse and mystify the students. Mr. Maurer will bo accompanied by Mr. Edward H. Jolie, '35, at the organ. Mr. Jolie is an outstanding organist in the 
Department of Music.All freshmen will meet in front of the Administration Build­ing and will march in a body to 
the Music Hall. Freshman men will be assembled and .conducted 
by the Druids and freshman girls by the Cwens.
Sororities Plan 
R ush ing P rog ram
The sororities of the College of Fine Arts, Gamma Gamma Gamma,. Alpha Kappa Psl, Beta PI, and Beta Tau Lambda began their fall rushing season by organizing pro­grams of various dances and par­ties to be held during the next two weeks.The major event of each sorority will be a formal dance. Gamma Gamma Gamma will hold its affair at the Hotel Schenley on Friday, November 4. An informal party at the home of one of its members has also been planned. The Alpha Kappa Psi dance will be held this 7 Saturday at the home of Maxine' 
Piekarski, president of the soror­ity. The Stanton Heights Golf Club will be the scene of the Beta 
Pi dance, which is dated for this Friday. Beta Tau Lambda will give the last dance of the season on November 5.All the sororities will close their rushing programs with the custo­mary Sunday night buffet suppers on November 6, and the period of silence will begin at 12:00 o’clock that night.
What? No Rabbits! My, How This 
Campus Has Changed In 20 Years!
By PETER
Now that the hunting season is on, 
how would you like to don your 
high-top boots and sheepskin coat 
and go hunting on the campus? Yes, that’s what was done, in the days of ’05, when men were men and plebes didn’t offer challenges. “The place was just infested with wild rabbits,” an “old-timer” of the faculty was telling me the other day. “Where the quadrangle and cut are now, the trees were so large and thick that it took an 
hour to get to Forbes street.”And you could get to Forbes street by the long way without 
crossing a bridge. Where Carne­gie stands now was a deep hollow, level with the railroad tracks. And oh, those trains! They used coal when coming up this way, and made a smoke screen so thick and black that even the white horses 
parked on the road were invisible. The horses, as you might have sur­mised by now, dear Plebe, be­longed to the students. The first automobile seen on the campus was a one cylinder Buick which grunted its way up the road in 
1906. Automobiles were as yet only heavy monsters which fright­
ened Carnegie Co-eds.“Surely there were no women at Carnegie in those days,” I ventur­ed. And with a laugh the “old-
V. PAULUS
timer” (that’s what he called him­self) related to me how once when presenting a play the girls had no dressing room and used his office in which to change costumes. “Yes, there were women here, and Mar­garet Morrison was situated in the present Carpentry Shop. Inci­dentally, that’s as far as the Col­lege of Industries extended. It was the only building, too, and all tho laboratories and classrooms were 
crowded into it.”“What about the topography of the land around here then?" I asked. Again he laughed. “You should have seen it,” he said, 
“Hundreds of thousands of cubic yards of earth were used to fill tho place. The ground 011 which Ma­
chinery Hall stands was all carried there; where the College of Flue Arts stands was a'-high hill. Have you ever noticed a crack which runs up and down the wall of the Machine Shop? That’s what hap­pened when that part of the build­ing sunk In the rather loose ground. A general laboratory building was built next to Indus­
tries Building, but the whole struc­ture fell away and smashed on ac­count of the weak foundation. The 
large concrete columns that are still protruding above the ground on the side of the slope next to the (Continued on Page Three)

---------------------------------------------------

2THE CARNEGIE TARTAN, TUESDAY, OCTOBER 25, 1932
Rivals F or 
Office Lead 
Active Lives
Presidential Candidates 
Active In Public | 
Affairs
Vote For President 
Sponsored Tomorrow
Students And Faculty Will Vote In 9:30 Classes 
Tomorrow Morning; Tartan Holds Straw 
Vote In Conjunction With Princeton
By JOE ADAMS
Tomorrow morning during the 9:30-10:30 class period bal­
lots on which students and faculty members will indicate their 
choice of candidates for president in the Tartan straw vote 
will be passed out in all classes.
By means of the class room poll, a large percentage of the 
students and faculty will vote and thereby allow an accurate 
reckoning of which candidate Carnegie favors. The ballots will 
not only record the name of the candidate preferred but also 
the sex, college, age and home state of the voter. These classi­
fications will enable the Tartan to'^ 
give a detailed account of the poll,
Faculty members will vote on 
pink ballots and students will vote 
on white ones in order to avoid any 
chance of student and faculty votes 
becoming confused. Tartan has 
arranged to have the ballots dis­
tributed by 9:30 and have them 
collected by 10:30. Some time dur­
ing the intervening hour the bal­
lots will be distributed by the in­
structor in charge of every class in 
session so that all students in class 
at tbat time will vote. Any facul­
ty members who do not have a class during the hour of the poll 
and wish to vote can do so at the “Y” office any time before 4:30 to­morrow afternoon. This extensive 
type of straw vote lias been made possible through the co-operation 
of the administration.The results of the Tartan poll will be wired to Princeton Univer­
sity as soon as they are tabulated which will be some time tomorrow evening, in order that they might be entered in a national collegiate poll which is being conducted by the Princetonian, Princeton’s daily 
paper. Thirty-four other college newspapers which are running polls will co-operate in a similar manner and send their results to the same paper, which in turn will send the combined results to the co-operating newspapers. The re­
sults of all of these college polls as well as the Tartan poll will be printed in the next issue of the Tar­
tan.The newspapers of the following 
colleges are co-operating in the poll: University of Arizona, Stan­ford University, Connecticut Wes­
leyan College, Yale University, Chi­cago University, University of Ken­tucky, Tulane University, Harvard 
University, Wellesley College, Am­herst College, Smith College, Wil­
liams College, Massachusetts Insti­tute of Technology, University of Michigan, University of Minnesota,University of Nebraska, University of New Hampshire, Dartmouth Col­lege, Princeton University, Colum­bia University, Cornell University,Syracuse University, New York University, Vassal* College, Univer­
sity of North Carolina, Ohio State University, University of Oklaho­ma, Brown University, University of South Dolcota, Vanderbilt Uni­versity, University of Texas, Uni­
versity of Vermont and Virginia Military Institute.
The above list represents col­leges in all sections of the country.With the results of their polls avail­able, the Tartan will be able to 
give an accurate estimate of the sentiment of the average college student in the coming election in next week’s Tartan. The outcome 
of the poll at Carnegie will be com­pared with that of the polls held at other colleges.
F ranco - German 
Amity Necessary 
Says Economist
New York, N. Y.—(NSFA)—The 
third series of National Student Federation broadcasts opened on Monday, October 3, with an address by Dr. C. R. Hennings, a graduate of the University of Freiburg and an 
expert on economic conditions in Europe.Speaking on the subject, "Ger­many’s Right to Re-arm,” Dr. Hen­nings outlined the circumstances leading up to the recent with­drawal of Germany from the Dis­armament Conference at Geneva and the part that the Versailles Treaty has played in the present tense situation. “Franco-German understanding is the keynote to a healthy condition of Europe,” said Dr. Hennings. “When Germany 
had to disarm under the peace treaty, her national security was, of course, not considered. When 
in 1926 she-joined the League of Nations sho became entitled to equal standing with all other mem­bers. Will Germany re-arm? Ger­many will co-operate in any gen­eral disarmament. She only wants equal treatment, not an increase in her armaments necessarily.”Through the courtesy of the Co­lumbia Broadcasting System, the programs will continue weekly on Monday afternoons from 2:00 to 2:15 o’clock, Eastern Standard Time. Announcements of future speakers will be made as the fall schedule is completed.
National Student, 
Federation PlansTrip
New York, N. Y— (NSFA)—At the invitation of the National Stu­dent Federation, a group of be­tween twenty and thirty South African students will tour the United States in January, 1933. The trip will start from New York and will include Pittsburgh. Chi­cago. Cleveland, Buffalo, and many 
of the colleges in the east and 
middle west.Plans are also being made for the entertainment, of a group of French students in the country in the fall of 1933.
By WILLIAM LANDSBERGIn order that Tartan readers may know something about the lives of the presidential candidates, the fol­lowing brief resume of the lives of the candidates and a short, course summary of their past accomplish­ments are presented:Herbert Hoover.
Herbert Clark Hoover was born into comparative poverty, at West Branch. Iowa, on August 10, 1874, 
At the age of 13, he went to work, preparing himself at night school to enter Stanford University. Ad­mitted in 1895, he majored in geol­ogy and mining. After graduation in 1895 he undertook engineering work on mines, railways and metal­lurgical projects which carried him 
to all parts of the globe—Canada, Australia, Great Britain, South Africa, Mexico, Italy, India, China, Russia and United States. While in China, he was chief engineer of the government’s bureau of mines. At the time of the Boxer uprising he helped organize relief and re­sistance in Peking. Rising steadily in his field, he became partner in an international engineering firm and finally established his own en­gineering company in 1907 with of­fices in several countries. By 1913, the firms of which he was execu­tive engineer were employing 175,- 000 men, who it is said, never 
struck once.At the outbreak of the World War, he organized relief for strand­ed Americans abroad, and follow­ing this, he administered Belgian relief. With America’s entrance into the war he became war-time food administrator and chairman of numerous important food can­neries and corporations. 1-Ie was also in charge of post-war relief, during - which time he refused to permit European control. He in­sisted on keeping it in American hands.In 1920, President Harding ap­pointed him Secretary of Com­merce, which position he held un­til his election to the presidency in 1928. As Secretary of Commerce, he reorganized the department and aided trade. He has spoken vig­orously against all kinds of collec­tivism and is /an outstanding ex­ponent of individualistic economics.Older charges against Mr. Hoover are that he shares the usual ideas of imperialism, has 
adopted a "hard-boiled” attitude toward foreign labor, and has alter­nately or at the same time adopted both views on armaments in order to win the support of both arma­ment and pacifist groups. The present-day critics point to his failure to admit the existence of the depression, thereby causing needless suffering and delaying remedies.Franklin D. Roosevelt.
Franklin Delano Roosevelt was born of well-to-do parents at Hyde Park, New York, on January 30, 
1882. He attended private secon­dary schools, matriculated at Har­vard and following graduation, en­rolled at Columbia Law School. In 1907, he was admitted to the bar and practiced law for three years. He was a member of the New York Senate from 1910-1913, gaining a reputation for progressivism by bucking the Murpliy-Tammany ma­chine.
He was appointed Assistant Sec­retary of the Navy, which posi­tion he held until 1920. At the 
close of the World War he was in charge of demobilization in Europe. 
He was candidate for Vice Presi­dent of the United States in 1920. He has been elected Governor of New York state twice, his present term expiring next year.
Rarely have his bitterest political opponents found fault with his human qualities. He is demo­cratic, possesses at times a certain engaging humility and open-mind­
edness and withal is given general credit for possessing a distinctly pleasing personality.His recovery from a stroke of in­
fantile paralysis in 1921 is a veri­table epic of fortitude. 1-Ie has worked as Governor for reform of 
the budget, has relieved farmers from taxes, has initiated measures looking toward a land utilization program by placing people on farms, and lias taken an attitude of strong regulation toward power companies, advocating public oavii- ersliip of plants.Against Mr. Rosevelt, critics con­tend that he is notably indecisive and weak when a bold attitude on ;i question might embarass his po­litical chances. They charge that he has never really understood the 
power issue, that he has talked of the need of a shorter working day and unemployment relief, but has failed to do anything about it whilr 
serving as Governor of New York. Also it is claimed that although he talks of peaceful world relations, 
(.Continued on Page Six.)
Presidential Candidates of the Three Major Parties
HERBERT HOOVER RepublicanNORMAN THOMAS Socialist
—Courtesy Sun-Telegraph. FRANKLIN D. ROOSEVELT Democrat
Seven Main Issues Feature Platforms
Platforms Of 3 Major 
Parties Presented 
By The Tartan
Following is presented a sum­
mary of comparisons of the major 
issues among the Republican, Dem­
ocratic, and Socialist platforms. 
While the complete platforms are 
not presented, this compainson is given to show the differences, if any, between the stands taken by each of the parties on these main issues. For more detailed analy­sis, the full party platforms should be consulted. In the case of the Socialist party, there are several sections of the platform that differ so radically from those of the others that the complete Socialist platform should be read. Space 
does not permit the inclusion of these parts here.Unemployment and Relief.Republican. We believe in the 
principle of high wages. We favor the principle of the shorter work­ing week and shorter work day, 
with its application to government as well as to private employment as rapidly and as constructively as conditions will warrant. To pro­vide against the possible failure of local and state agencies to care for unemployed, the President has 
urged the Congress to create an emergency relief fund to be loaned temporarily to any state on a show­ing of actual need and temporary failure of its financial resources.Democratic. We advocate the extension of federal credit to states for unemployment relief wherever diminishing resourecs of states make it impossible to pro­vide for the needy; expansion of the federal program of necessary, useful construction affected with 
public interest; spread of employ­ment by a substantial reduction in hours of labor, encouragement of shorter week by applying principle in government service; planning of public works; i unemployment and old age insurance under state laws.Socialist. Federal appropriation of $5,000,000,000 for immediate re­
lief to supplement state and local appropriations; Federal appropria­tion of $5,000,000,000 for public 
works and roads, reforestation, slum clearance and decent homes for worker, by federal government, states, and cities; legislation for acquisition of land, buildings, and equipment necessary to put un­employed to work producing food, fuel, and clothing and for erection
of house for own use; six-hour day 
and five-day week without réduc­tion of wages; free public employ­ment agencies; compulsory system of unemployment compensation with adequate benefits, based on contributions by govern­
ment and employers; old age pensions for men and women over 60. years of age; health and ma­ternity insurance; improved sys­
tems of workmen’s compensation and accident insurance; abolition of child labor; adequate minimum 
wage laws.ProhibitionRepublican: Submission to spe­
cial State conventions of a pro­posed amendment to allow States to deal with the liquor problems as their citizens may determine, 
but subject to the power of the Federal government to protect 
those States where prohibition may exist and sareguard citizens everywhere from the return of the 
saloon, pledges continued effort of law enforcement.Democratic: Advocates repealof the Eighteenth Amendment by 
Congress immediately, proposing amendment at representative state conventions called solely to act on tbat proposal; urges enactment by states of such measures as will act­ually promote temperance, prevent the return of the saloon, and bring the liquor traffic into the open and under state control; demands that federal government protect dry states from importation of intoxi­
cating liquors in violation of their laws; favors immediate modifica­tion of the Volstead Act to legalize manufacture and sale of beer and alcoholic beverages permissible un­der Constitution and to provide for revenue therefrom.Socialist: Repeal of the Eight­eenth Amendment and take over the liquor industry under govern­ment ownership and control, with the right of local option for each state to maintain prohibition with­in its borders.AgricultureRepublican: The fundamentalproblem of American agriculture is the control of production- to such volume as will balance supply with demand. In the solution of this problem, the co-operative organi­zation of farmers, to plan produc­
tion, and the tariff, to hold the home market for American farm­
ers, are vital elements; a third element equally vital is the control of acreage of land under cultiva­tion to balance production.Democratic: Advocates betterfinancing of farm mortgages 
through recognized farm bank
THE SURROUNDING WORLD
By JOE ADAMS
Franklin Delano Roosevelt has 
swung into the height of his second campaign trip with a key speech Pittsburgh last Wednesday night. All has not been so rosy with this smiling candidate since his nth cousin, Alice Roosevelt Longwortli, has come out for Hoover one hundred percent. She says that she and her father, Theodore Rosevelt, and his entire 
branch of the family have always been Republicans and that they would vote for Hoover, To com­pensate for these cutting remarks. Roosevelt has gained as allies Phil LaFollette, who was recently de­feated for re-election as governor 
of Wisconsin, and Father Cox, who has withdrawn from the presi­dential race to aid Roosevelt.
Herbert Hoover has been hav­ing his unhappy moments as well his opponent. Henry Ford, thinking that lie would help 
Hoover, requested his employees to vote for Hoover and by doing 
enraged a great many oeople so- that he doubtlessly >ost more votes than he gained for the Republican party Calvin
Coolidge has been doing all that he can to bolster the Republican cause, and, consequently, has saved many a vote from going astray.
Things seem to be stirring over in the Orient where Japan has set up the state of Manchukuo with none other than the ex-emperor of China, Pu-yi, as Regent. Naturally, he does not feel any too amiable towards the government which de­prived him of a throne. As things stand now, Pu-yi is little less than a puppet in the hands of the 
Japanese government which be­friended him during his unfor­tunate years after he was forced to leave China.Many nations are objecting to Japan’s obvious moves in gaining control of the Manchurian Penin­sula. As a matter of fact, the Lea­gue of Nations has told Japan to halt and retreat in some 100,000 
words. As a result we still Jind Japanese troops in Manchuria. There is no doubt that if the Lea­gue continues its course of levity and mere warnings, the joy-ride of the Tokyo militarists will continue. The only way that they can be
agencies at low rate of interest on amortization plan, giving prefer­ence to credits for redemption of farms and homes sold under fore­closure; extension and develop­ment of Farm Co-operative move­
ment and effective control of crop surpluses so that farmer will have full benefit of home market; en­actment of constitutional measure to aid farmers to receive for their basic farm commodities prices in excess of cost.Socialist: Favors the reductionof tax burdens, by a shift from taxes on farm property to taxes on incomes, inheritances, excess prof­
its, and other similar forms of tax­ation; increased federal and state subsidies to road building and ed­ucational and social services for rural communities; certain of fed­eral marketing agency for agricultu­
ral products; acquisition by cooper­ative societies and govern­mental agencies of grain elevators, stockyards, packing houses, and warehouses and the conduct of these services on a non-profit basis; socialization of federal land banks and extension of long-term credit to farmers at low rates of interest; social insurance for loss­es which are due to adverse weather conditions; creation of na­tional, regional, and state land util­ization boards for discovering best uses of farm land in view of joint needs of agriculture, industry, rec­
reation, wjater supply, reforesta­tion, etc.
Veterans
Republican: Believes that every 
veteran incapacitated in any de­gree by reason of illness or injur­ies attributable to service in de­fense of his country should be cared for and compensated, so fa as compensation is possible, by a grateful nation, and that the de­pendents of those who lost their lives in war or whose death since the war in which service was ren­dered is traceable to service causes, should be provided for adequately.Democratic: We advocate full
measure of justice and generosity for all war veterans who have suf­fered disability or disease caused by, or resulting from, actual serv­
ice in time of war, and for their dependents.Socialist: No statement.Public EconomyRepublican: Prompt and drasticreduction of public expenditures and resistance to every appropria­tion not demonstrably necessary to the performance of the essential functions of government, national or local; efficiency and economy de-
stopped is by application of pres­sure by the League.
The United States of Soviet Rus­
sia has come out with a definite stand on the armament question. In brief, they say that disarma­ment is impossible in this doomed 
capitalistic world. They claim that they see signs of more armament on all sides rather than disarma­ment. To cap the situation, the claim is made that despite the ob­vious strained relationshipss' be­tween many countries they all seem to be mutually antagnotistic towards Russia. With conditions 
existing such as these armaments 
can not help but increase.Just how significant or im­portant these statements are is hard to estimate. However, there is much truth in many of the re­marks, although I believe that Rus­sia has overestimated the antagon­ism of the other nations toward her. There is no doubt that many nations have been arming in­stead of disarming. The fact that Germany is fighting to make head­way in her demands for equal status in armament with the rest of Europe shows that all is not so quiet on the Western Front.
In Mahatma Gliandi’s India, we find that the Moslem and Hindu
Democrats, Socialists, 
Republicans Advocate 
18 Adm. Changes
mand reorganization of govern­ment bureaus; favors legislation giving the President power to ef­fect such reduction.Democratic Advocates reduc­tion of governmental expenditures by abolishing useless commissions and offices, consolidating depart­ments and biireaus, eliminating ex­travagance, to save at a minimum, 
twenty-five per cent in the. cost of government.Socialist: Advocate public own­ership and democratic control of mines, forests, oil, power utilities dealing with light and power, trans­portation and communication, and all basic industries.Tariff
Republican: Extensions of thegeneral Republican principle of tariff protection to our natural re­
sources industries, including the products of our farms, forests, 
mines, and oil wells, with compen­satory duties on the manufactured and refined products thereof.Democratic: Advocates competi­
tive tariff for revenue with fact­finding tariff commission free from 
executive intereference; reciprocal agreements with other nations, and internatiornal economic conference to restore international trade.FinanceRepublican: The Republicanparty’ established and will continue to uphold the gold standard and will oppose any measure which will 
undermine the government’s credit •or impair the integrity of our na­tional currency.Democratic: Favors mainten­ance of national credit by budget balanced on basis of accurate ex­
ecutive estimates within revenue raised by taxation on principle of ability to pay; advocates preserva­tion of sound currency at all haz­ards and international monetary conference called by the United States to consider rehabilization of silver and related questions.Socialist: Socialization of credit
and currency system and the es­tablishment of a unified banking system, beginning with the com­plete governmental acquisition of the Federal Reserve Banks and the 
extension of the services of the Postal Savings Banks to cover all departments of the banking busi­ness and the transference of this department of the post office to a government-owned banking corpor­
ation.
women can co-operate even though the men like to riot as they are organizing under the joint leader­
ship of a Hindu and a Moslem in their bid for political equality. England can’t see it the same way as the women do, and so, the suf­fragette movement, once rampant in this country, is beginning to pop up in the East. The women of In­dia have stated that they do not wish to be divided on a racial or religious basis. If granting the women in India the right to vote 
would end the continual strife be­tween the Hindus and the Mos­
lems, I should say that the English will have found an easy solution to a troublesome situa­tion.
The bandits in the Balkan moun­tains are being captured and kill­ed when in flight in such largo quantities that soon they will all be gone. When the hills have been entirely cleared of these colorful marauders, who claim that they 
lead a Robin Hood life, the Balkans will have lost the last of the old Macedonian warriors. The 
decline of Komitadji, as the ban­dits are called, may result in bogus bandit entertainment for travelers in motor-coaches in the Balkans similar to that of the Apaches in 
Paris.
Europe Characterizec 
By New “Autarch
Parlimentary And Democratic Government 
Failed Since World War; American Vol 
Should Understand European Situation
By NATHAN MILLER, Ph. D.
The time is long past when the American voter could c 
his vote in a presidential election without considering the coir 
of affairs economic arid political in Europe. Of course, An; 
cans as a rule have been characterized by an abysmal pro-s 
cialism in the past—a shortsightedness and gaucherie which 1 
given rise to no end of ridicule on the part of such Europ 
visitors to our shores as Charles Dickens. Besides, many 
sitive literary and artistic souls such as Henry James have 
to take flight to the “old country” or to the Left Ban, 
?escape the confining influenct -r-i i • their fellow countrymen. Whatt
P il 1^11 I I -M-l Vf* Cl may have been ordinary attitud<JL A Y the pT0blem of Europe, howeve
is sifinificant.to observe that a-Comments Un ,tIme :n °ur p;ist "'0re "¦» c°mply cut off in an econmic andS
m \T ¦ tical sense. The very essenc
I T a TV T OT0 t,le Political doctrines which shi the first constitution in Ame 
was imported from revolutio France and England; our who'1 dustralization and rise to ecor maturity was financed from abi and our recent flush period offr- perity was founded largely upoi extensive and lucrative es trade.
It takes no great IngenuU mind or long study of the fa 
indicate how irrevocable art ties which bind us today t- vast vortex) of European e Mere mention of such burnin 
sues of the day as reparations, debts, disarmament, tariffs, kets for agricultural surplus call to mind at once the immei 
with which events across tlio find their reverberations on side. But matching the relen ness of these ties is again tb ject ignorance and econom: 
competence of the American to judge and assess these fac their proper light. On the 
hand, those eager to befuddle woo the hesitant voter would t. ly exclude mention of any of above international problen first, because the politically a 
tious themselves are all at sea these issues, and secondly, beca it is easier to charm votes by 
terlng single-syllable, emc watchword like “beer” or “bon But at the same time, the ca dates and the parties who in judgment of history must be responsible« for the recent s 
are only too eager to point tc tain events abroad as the c;. for our debacle—as though 
American economy was disto from its fool-proof foundation the plottings and the jealoup foreigners. Such attitudes an most deplorable aspect of our ent rather preposterous campai which, of the major candii one keeps warning us that “it.: have been worse” and the that "it shall not be worso.”
It might not be amiss altofi to canvass briefly those cros rents In the political maelstro Europe of today which shall mately have 4i vast effect upor, economic fortunes Irrespectiv what may bo the outcome f 
quadrennial circus now app ing the final heats. If one c 
so bold as to generalize in a where there are so many po groupings, bits of doctrine, an 
prejudices and modern wine’ doctrine afloat, one might say the post-war European bcci characterized by an extreme d opment of economic nation! Tills tendenscy toward ingrov withdrawing into the national economically has been given name—"autarchy.” Whatev< 
new appearance, it is liowevt ply the last flush of the na, istic policy which took possi 
of Europe and rode it once int whirlwind in 1914. The latest 
is madder and more intense haps than the last plague j arose about one hundred year —:no more. Almost every one < great European nations has the lead in erecting about it 
ders high tariff walls to restrl ports and has taken ext' measures to retaliate again neighbor nations which are the very same thing. This r tion in the last analysis talf form of armaments—and i race for "defensive” prot against the other nationals, 
arms must be of the latest, deadly technical form. To this financially possible the must be severely taxed—arid same time, to cut down the f able financial burden of this the clever expedient hag seized upon of holding "‘di: 
ment” conferences at whl< obsolete weapons will be dii by all nations by agreement 
Even Great Britain, the 
land of free trade has beeni into this development and b' 
the aid of its dominions tariff walls to "protect” against the incursion of goods. So that as a con we find all of Europe tou vulBed in a recriminations economic nature that, are strangling its very life, stance, the smaller midd 
pa just carved out by the of Versailles has each gom the tariff policy and has its own little fence. Natj- Austria, Hungary, Bulga 
practically bankrupt and because as agricultural they cannot sell their croi industrial nations they ar lowed to find markets f goods. With the result 
tlonallsm in each case more inflamed and the ole which prevailed before th 
the so-called "balance of r coming back into effect, grieved nations seek spons lies with whom to threai 
neighbors and the old d: see-saw resumes, and fina (Continued on Page !
Tartan Staff Asks Full 
Cooperation From 
Student Body
By MARGARET GRIFFINIn conjunction with the political poll which is being held on the campus tomorrow, at 9:30 a. m., several interested members of the Carnegie faculty have expressed their personal opinion of the poll. The Tartan is making a determin­ed effort to impress the student body with the fact that the pro­ject if responded to seriously and in the right attitude, may provide results which will be compared with the results of similar polls taken in other colleges in the country."The Tartan,” says Mr. Tarbell, Dean of Men, "is making a very earnest effort to secure an ade­quate presidential poll on the campus. It is to be hoped that every student will co-operate by casting a ballot when the voting day comes in order that the result may be genuinely representative."Alan Bright, Registrar, believes that the opinions of the public and of students often arrive at sharp angles to each other, and that the opinions of students of economics, in particular, should reveal a decided interest in public affairs. The poll, according to Mr. Bright, should be an interesting test of how interested college stu­dents are. 1-Ie believes that, if managed correctly and if taken se­riously, the straw vote will prove exceptionally interesting.Dr. Schoen ApprovesDr. Max Schoen, professor of psychology, considers the poll “a wholesome, worthwhile undertalc1 ing if it stimulates the student body to give some serious thought to national problems. There lias been a good deal of complaint,” Dr. Schoen continued, in his in­terview, "that young America dis­plays no interest in political mat­ters, and anything that would stimulate such an Interest is to be encouraged.”Upon being asked if he thought that any material value could be derived from the balloting, Dr. Schoen replied in the affirmative, "since it is bound to arouse some discussion among the student body as to the relative merits of the. major candidates. We have been suffering from the unfortunate no­tion that schools are no place for political discussion,” he continues, "but if such matters are not dis­
cussed in schools where, then, can the young man or young woman get an impartial and intelligent 
evaluation? Certainly not in the newspapers.”“The student poll,” ,said Dr. Ih- rig, "should encourage students to give thought to political ques­tions. They will everlastingly have questions like that coming up, and the vote will tend to bring to their attention the fact that they are going to have just as much part in the government as Teddy Roosevelt.”Mr. Jewett, Director of the Col­lege of Industries, says: “It isvery important that the college student begin to take an interest in public affairs. This poll should be valuable in that it will direct interest toward that sort of thing.” When asked if he thought that the students would have sufficient background to respond adequately to such a vote, Mr. Jewett said that “the college student has an 
intelligence far above the aver­
age, if he reads the newspapers and listens to discussions. He usually has an opinion of his own . reasoned and weighted opin­ion—and the straw ballot should certainly be indicative of some­thing, although it will not show how the presidential vote will go in any particular district.”Glad of Chance"I am glad, states,” Dr. Webster N. Jones, newly appointed Direc­tor in the College of Engineering, “that the Tartan is affording us the privilege of expressing our collective political preference. I shall compare with interest the results of our student vote with the actual vote on November 8.”Dr. Charles Watkins, Director of Margaret Morrison, summarizes the opinions of the other faculty members. He says:
"While the results of a straw vote taken in our small group will not supply information of great value in predicting the outcome of the November election, I feel It is an effort In'the right direction. The interest of the students in national affairs is an encouraging sign. Perhaps the time will come when this body wil be sufficiently interested to stage an election which wilt involve a thorough knowledge of election laws and which will give our future officers and voters an opportunity to ac­quire valuable experience before undertaking the duties they must 
some day assume.”

---------------------------------------------------

Newman Gives 
Travel Talks 
At Music Hall
Tickets For Lectures 
Sold At Mellor’s 
Music Store
The third of a series of five epi­
sodes of a fifty-thousand mile jour­
ney around the world will be pre­
sented by E. M. Newman, master 
traveler and lecturer, in the Car­
negie Music Hall tonight at S:15.
Mr. Newman, well-known for his 
Vitaphone Travel Talks which are 
being shown in all Warner Broth­
ers’ theaters, begins the third epi­sode of his tour in Singapore, the 
city with a jumbled mixture of Oriental people. From Singapore 
he will take his audience to Java, where the wealth of the interest is centered in a well-managed Dutch colony and its Buddhist inhabi­
tants; from there to Sulu, one of the islands of the Philippine group; then to Luzon and Manila; and finally to Hongkong, a British pos­
session, but ¦preponderantly Chi­nese, and to Canton with its. crowd­ed, narrow streets and its amazing life on land and in .boats.
This is the first time the fifty- thousand mile jaunt around the globe has ever been assembled in a series of five travel-talks, and extreme care has been exercised in the selection of still color and motion picture scenes so that noth­ing of interest will, be overlooked on or off the beaten path. In pre­senting this extensive tour, Mr. 
Newman brings to the public the most complete itinerary and most ambitious program that he has ever assembled.One of the many advantages in traveling with Mr. Newman in 
these lectures is that the public shares many privileges that he en­joys in foreign countries that are denied to ordinary tourists and sees many forbidden places and carefully guarded treasures.
The travel-talks began on Tues­day evening, October 11 and will continue each Tuesday until No­vember 8. Tickets for the lec­tures are on sale at Mellor’s Music Store, 604 Wood street, Pittsburgh. 
Prices of the tickets are -$1.65, $1.10 and $.50.
Activities Key List 
Due In "Y" Office
The managers of all-organiza­
tions under Student Council 
are requested to submit at the 
“Y” office within the next week 
a list of those persons eligible 
to receive activities keys at the 
end of the year.
The submittance of these 
lists at this time is in accord­
ance with the new plan being 
carried out under Alan M. Davis, 
activities key chairman, for the 
distribution of these awards.
Many Changes Seen
In Past 20 Years
' Continued From Page 1
Science Building were built to be the foundations of Engineering Hall. The ground all caved in cov­
ering many tons of steel that have never been recovered.
“Were there any athletic teams at Carnegie as yet, and what did they use for a field?” I inquired. 
Arid how he must have marvelled at my ignorance! “You never heard of Carnegie's famous baseball teams?” he asked, surprised. “Why, 
they were the talk of the country. Forbes Field was the ball park then, but it was located on higher ground than it is now. It was1 en­closed by a fence and a home run Was really a home run. The ball, 
going over the fence, was forever lost in the deep hollow below. But Barney Dreyfuss got the idea to use that place for his ball team, so our boys had to move.
“The pr'esent athletic field was 
an appropriate place, and it really was a natural amphitheater. All it needed was some smoothing out. A grandstand was built which extend­ed from the Carnegie Inn to where Margaret Morrison is now located. But the Carnegie Inn wasn’t 'the 
Carnegie Inn then—it was the field house and gymnasium. The ground 
oil which the house was built was formerly used for a dumping yard.
“I’ll bet plenty of old tin can be 
found in that ground now,” and again he laughed. Looking out 
across the Cut I pictured Lieuten­ant Burton chasing a rabbit . . . 
And I laughed too.
Senior Girls 
Show Public 
Model Home
Spend Less Than $1500, 
Furnish And Equip 
Entire House
Seniors in the Department of 
Household Economics have fur­
nished and entirely equipped a 
five-room house, keeping all expen­
ditures within $1,500. For the past 
three weeks, Miss Harriet F. Gleu- 
don, head of the department, and 
the students of the department, 
have spent considerable time in 
Pittsburgh department stores, pric­
ing and selecting the most practic­
al and economical equipment for a 
modern home.
The house, located on Sulgrave 
road in Chatham Village, will be open for inspection from 2 to 5 o’clock every afternoon this week. It lias been lent to the Better Homes in America Association as a part of a demonstration of meth­ods of reducing labor and expense in housekeeping, and to suggest 
ways of increasing the attractive­ness of the home.Besides choosing the furnishings for the house, the students also chose the wallpaper in two of the bedrooms and decided on the loca­tion of various cupboards and shelves. The house is one of those which were built by the Buhl Foundation, and was just completed October 1.Furnishing the house is one of 
the problems of seniors in the home management course. A large 
part of the money spent was used in equipping the Kitchen and laun­dry, since housekeeping activities are mainty centered in these rooms. In seleoting the rest of the furni­
ture, the students were guided by Miss Glendon’s conception of an ideal household which would be one 
in which artistic arrangement and efficient management go hand in hand.Last year the seniors in the de­partment budgeted the cost of meals lor a family of five, attract­ing wide attention. Invitations to inspect the house have been issued 
to civic and social organizations of Pittsburgh.
Carnegie A.i.a.n. 
W ill Begin Drive
The Carnegie branch of the 
American Institute of Electrical 
Engineers is beginning an inten­
sive membership drive. It is the 
hope of the officers of the organi­
zation to have all students in the 
Department of Electrical Engineer­
ing become members. The dues 
are $1.00 per year, payable to a 
representative of each class who 
has been appointed as member­
ship chairman. The senior repre­
sentative is Bartholomew J. 
Aimone; the junior, Carl W. Oet- 
tinger; the sophomore, James 
Lobach.
A well-known scientist, Dr. W. B. 
Kouwenhover, professor of electri­
cal engineering at Johns Hopkins 
University, was the featured speaker of the A. I. E. E. meeting held Wednesday, October 19. He is the vice-president of the mid­eastern section of the national A. I. E. E. His speech to the students dealt with a comparatively new in­vention, the Sperry Locomotive, which is a device for locating de­fects in railroad rails by electrical means. According to Dr. Kouwen­hover, current is sent through the portion of rail being tested, and a drop in potential locates a flaw in the material.Plans are being completed by the A. I. E. E. officers to hold another meeting in the near future.
Edwin T. Meyer, O. D.
OPTOMETRIST 
Specializing in Examining Eyes and 
Furnishing enmustsb
“Special Student Ratos"
-i 13 DIAMOND BANK BUILDING
You Can’t Be Popular . . . 
If You’re a Poor Dancer
We Will Teach You in 3 Private Lessons—Only §5 
Expert Instruction
JACQUES SCHOOL 
OF DANCING
FORBES AND CRAIG STREETS Mayflower 7891 Beginners’. anmustslionday and Friday Evening«, 8:30 o’clock. 
Social Dances—Will» Orchestra— Thursday and Saturday Evenings, 
8:30 o’clock.
In Uie Heart of Tech and I’ltt
One of the safest foundations 
on which to build your finan­
cial independence is a savings 
account. Systematic saving
begun while you are in college 
will pave the way for a suc­
cessful future. Our Savings 
Accounts pay liberal interest 
compounded semi-annually.
Mellon National Bank
Pitts bigs óh. Pa.
Carnegie Cites 
211 Students 
On Honor Roll
List Is Largest Since 
First Announcement 
Two Years Ago
(Continued From Page One) 
were Sidney Krasik ’32, Hyman 
Landau ’32, Elizabeth Anne Phil­
lips ’32, and DeWolf Scliatzel ’34.
Four honor rolls have been is­
sued to date and 42 of those on 
the last roll have been cited each 
time. Thirty-three were named 
twice previously, and G4 once be­
fore.
SECOND SEMESTER 
1931-1932
Honor List requirements:
1. An average gTade of B or 
above (factor of 5.0 or above).
2. A semester schedule of 
48 or more units.
Figures in parentheses after 
names indicate the number of 
times a student has been cited 
previously for honors. (The 
publishing of the Honor List 
began with the First Semester 
of 1930-31.)
SENIORS
Sidney Krasik (3)------------------------------- C.OOITym'an Gershin Landau (3)------------ G.00
Elizabeth Anne Phillips (2)--------------6.00
Jack Edgar Morris (3)---------------------- 5.94Lois Eleanor McGregor (3)-------------- 5.87.Margaret Katherine Keppel (3)------ 5.86
Orval Kipp (3)-------------------------------------- 5.84
Harold J. Cohen (2)---------------------------- 5.83Melvin Morris (1)---------------------------— 5.81
James F. Bissofc (1)-------------------------— 5.77Richard Sauer Smlthley (3)------------ 5.7G
Edith Turner (2)---------------------------------- 5.75Ellen Van der Voort (3)------------------ 5.74
Rosemary Lynch (3)---------------------------- 5.72Walter Edward Osborn (3)---------------- 5.72Dorothy Srddon Everett---------------------- 5.70Henry P. Evans, Jr. (3)-------------------- 5.68
Elmer Weldon Schumacher---------------- 5.63
Thelma Claire Lnylander (1)------------ 5.62Mary Helen Stophany-------------------------- 5.58
Paul F. Wile (L)---------------------------------- 5.57Howard Nicholas Maxwell (2)--------5.56Howard Stanley Seifert (1)-------------- 5.56
Robert Oliver Holmes (2)------------------ 5.50
Bernard Daniel Met'elltet (1)------------ 5.50
John I. Bohnert, Jr. (3)-------------------- 5.49
• John George Zeedick---------------------------- 5.46Edward Knorr Schade (2)------------------ 5.45
Jane Elizabeth Croyle (2)-------1-------- 5-43Frances Cooke Graham (2)---------------- 5'.43
Elsie Guggenheim (2)------------------------ 5.43William Howard Sprenkle (2)---------- 5.43
.Glenn Urton Boyles (1)---------------------- 5.42Mario Cherubini Celli (3)------------------ 5.41Virginia Ruth FranclB (2)---------------- 5.40
Fred Beals Stitt (3)---------------------------- 5.40
' Margaret Julia Accipiter (1)------------ 5.39Lionel Hoechstcttor (3)---------------------- 5.39Maxine Sheets (3)-------------------------------- 5.39
Robert Louis Hirshhelmer (1)------- 5.38
Ronald Cameron Teare------------------------ 5.38Wilber Alexander Blain (1)------------ 5.37
Bess Moredock (1)-------------------------------- 5.37Joseph I. Greenberger (2)------------------ 5.34
Arthur Crossland Barnhart (3)— 5.33John Mercer Sherrer (1)-------------------- 5.32
Edwin A. Gcrldes (1)-------------------------- 5.26
Mary Louise Milligan (1)------------------ 5.25Elmer Ellsworth Kirkpatrick, Jr. (1) 5.24
. Richard Carleton Long------------------------ 5.23Robert E. Cron, Jr. (1)-------------------- 5.22Eva Leone Armstrong------------------------ 5.21
Freda Pomoranl’z (2)-------------------------- 5.20Frances Bryce Reid (2)---------------------- 5.20
'joulse Adelaide Weiler (3)------------- 5.19.Vlllibald Ryshnnek (2)---------------------- 5.18
'liarloB Albert Berghane (1)------------ 5.17
lorenco Mary Gray (1) —---------------- 5.1710mas C. ITower.------------------------------- 5.17
rolda Maz7.a ---------------------—--— 5.17thryn R. McKinney (1)------------— 5.17vard Allen Wagner (3)---------------- 5.17
Ham Kobor Niobatim-------------------- 5.15Irow ICnox Robertson (2)----------- 5.13
rgo Gladden Richey---------------------- 5.11
ry Alfred Madsen------------------------- 5.1 ORAxel Forssmark (I)------------------ 5'. 10
Groen Watson (1)------------------ 5.10.....Id Irving Rodenbaugh (1)-------- 5.09
(ward Hines Keller-------------------------- 5.08hri Ford Sellers-------------------------------- 5.08
irgory Jane Lewlne (1)---------------- 5.07.wland .Tones Morgan---------------------- 5.06
Floy Sample Morrison (1)---------------- 5.06Joiiimh Francis Pock---------------------------^ 5.06
Pauline Marjory Clair (1)---------------- 5.04
John Doyle MacKenzle (3)---------------- 5.00Marjorie Ethel Patterson---------------- 5.00Francos Helene Schneider---------------- 5.00
JUNIORS
Henry Clyde Westln (1)-------------------- 5.72Arthur Herbert SchnfTert (3)------------ 5.69
Mary Emily Townsend (3)---------------- 5.67
Louis McDonald (1)---------------------------- 5.66Isabel Elizabeth Weston (2)______ 5.63
John Willis Ladd (3)__---------------------- 5’.G2Robert Milo Law (2)-------------------------- G.S'O
Henry Anthony Jandl (3)--------------- 5.55
Lillian Dorothy Shults (2)-------------- 5.50
Julius Halpern (3)----------------------------- 5.41Harry Frederick Zinsser-------------------- 5.41
Edward Lewis RobinBon (3)------------ 5.40
Ruth Marjorie Ebken (1)------------------ 5.40Thomas John O’Donnell, Jr. (3)__ 5.39Earl Loathcn Warrick (3)---------------- 5.37
Elizalxjth Paulino Ilinchman------------5.35Veima DoloreB Krasik (1)---------------- 5.35Vivian OBborne Johnston (2)---------- 5.33
Irwin Wallace Fritz (1)-------------------- 5.32
Marjorie Mary Dougherty (1)---------- 5.31
Aline Ross (3)---------------------------------------- 5'.31John Wakefield Clingerman_______ 5.30
Lawrence Edward Dempsey-------------- 5.29
George Alton Pillsbury (2)-------------- 5.29
John Lowry Powers (3)__________ 5.29Robert Stanton Gill (3)___________ 5.27
Helen Yvonne Newmeyer (2)---------- 5.25
Iver Herbert) Lundgren (3)-------------- 5.23John Caswell Lightfoot__________ 5.22
Dorothy Jeanne Morse (3)________ 5.21Robert Russell Smith-------------------------- 5.20
Frances Harriet Brown (3)_______ 5.19Joseph Richard Vensel_____________ 5.19Eleanor Therese Duffy (2)________ 5.17
Daniel Elmer Nagy (3)----------------------, 5.14
Ruth Christine Phillips (2)_______ 5.13Berenice Converse (3)_____________5.11William Henry Nichols___________ 5.10
Alice Myers Work (1)_____________ 5.10
Augustine E. Winnemore_________ 5'.08Mary Louise Cunningham (1)_____5.06Emma Elizabeth Gose________'_____ 5.06
Marion Elizabeth McNary (1)____ 5.06Helen Winifred Fleming__________ 5.05
Helen Barbara Sisenwain (1)_____ 5.05Wiliam Iser Smith (2)____________ 5.05
David Herzl Avner (2)___________ 5.03Alex Harry Seigal-------------------------------- 5.01
SOPHOMORES
f Schatzel (3)_______________ 6.00
i Serbirv (2)_________________ 5.90..«¡y M. DancofT (2)------------------------ 5.81
larles Bartlett Lyman (8)_______ 5.83¡hlon Prentlco Fcnderson (3)____ 5.76
¦ancea Elmina Schultz (1)___.____ 5.73Uliam John Wahlman (1)-------------- 5.72
ancla O'Connor Church (2)_____ 5.67irgaret Oliver Bateman (2)_____ S.40icrta Mao ICessinger (1)_______ 5'.393
her Jacoba Freni (8)-------------------- 5.392
motto Edna Fischol (2)-------------- 5.35•} David Morgan_______________ 5.33
trice Philip Sommervillo (1)___ 5.32telle Everett (3)------------------------------ 5.31 .
nora Freeman (1)______________ 5.27van! Isaac Oshry______________ 5.27
ia Joan Roberts (1)___________ 5.27y Evelyn Gamble---------------------------- G.25
os Lawrence Dlvvens (1)______ 5.240 Charlotte Simons____________ 5.22
jory Corinno Glassburn (3)___ 5.19.•o Marl a ITonzl (2)_____________ 5.19
lett'a F. Parkor___________•_____ 5.19try Scott) Schofield_____________5.19
•iklin Marx Holler (2)________ 5.18•is Damn Campbei (1)_________ 5’. 17ph Goorgo Surmacs (1)_______ 5.17Ion Louise Swan______________ 5.17
Hassler Tritle________________ 5.176th Girard Carroll (1)_______ 5.16
tine Dietrich Luedeke---------------- 5.15mm Alfred Gross_____________ 5.14
raret Fergus Lewis___________ 5.14.d Shore (1)___________________ 5.14
rles Boyd ----------------------------I______5.12y Kelly _______________________ 5.12
•o Christina Metzger (1)_______5.09rlotte Stephanie Rothreck____ 5.09
1 Ida Douglas (1)-------------------------- 5.08y Caroline Hopkins__________ 5.OSes Moller Holst_______________ 5.07
ra B. Sproul------------------------------------5.06
mm John Scholtx______________6.05
THErCARNEGIE*TARTAN,<TUESDAY, UL.TOBER 25. l‘Ji'2
A Sure 
Foundation
5200 FORBES STREET
To
© 1932,
Liggett & Myehs Tobacco atb
GRADUATES AT WORK ON STUDY OF STREAMLINE PROBLEM
I Your Campus 
I Drug Store
1 The
I NewWoodlawn Pharmacy I
Carries
School Supplies 
Stein’s Make-up 
Show-card Colors 
Drawing Instruments
Special Prices
Sheaffer’s Pens 
Notebooks 
Inks 
Blotters, etc.
Students.
= Have You Tried Our Luncheonette Service? ;
Four students', Miles A. Kinley, W. Howard Sprenkle, William W. Justice, and Igor J. Karassick. all graduates of the Machanical Engineering Depart­ment of Carnegie, are doing post graduate work in the Aerodynamics Laboratory. They are experi­menting with a three-inch model of an automobile in a water channel and hope by means of their
experiment to determine j'ust how the progress of a car is affected by its streamline. The car is elec­trically driven and the work consists of protograph­ing the water currents surrounding the car while it is in motion. Their purpose is to perfect an ideal car whose shape will not greatly Interfere with its speed.
“W,hat on earth are you up to now?
Graduates Study Effect Of 
Streamline On Speed Of Car
Eminent Engineers Interested In Experiments; 
Work Is Being Performed Under Supervision 
Of Mechanical Engineering Department
Four graduates of the Depart­
ment of Mechanical Engineering 
last June, William W. Justice, 
Miles A. Kinley, W. Howard 
Sprenkle, and Igor J. Karassllc are 
at work in the Aerodynamics lab­oratory on an experiment in which they hope to discover the effect of the streamline design of an auto­
mobile on its speed. They then plan to perfect a design whose streamline will not radically inter­fere with the speed of the car, the power consumption being reduced, they believe, by a streamline which cuts down wind resistance.
Most of the work is being done in a water channel in which a three-inch model of an automobile is propelled by electric power. The passage of the model through the 
water is recorded by photograph­ing the positions of fine particles 
of Lycopodium powder which had
been sprinkled over the surface of the water. As it is possible to vary the speed of the model, experi­
ments are being made on the effect of the resistance at various veloc­ities. The distribution of the par­ticles, caused by the passage of the model through them; is the im­portant effect to be noted in this experiment. The speed of the. mo­
del is recorded on a regulatory scale.Eminent engineers are closely watching these experiments, and 
the students have a tetter from a consulting engineer , of the Belgi­
um Bureau of Technical Documents stating his interest in the experi­ment. The work is being perform­ed under the supervision of Prof. Allen II. Blaisdell, Associate Pro­fessor of Aeronautical Engineering. 
The experiments will later be adapted to standardized automo­biles.
"T^INDING tliing9 out, smarty! I thought I’d cx- 
amine the tobacco in a cigarette.
"Look here... this is Chesterfield tobacco. Notice i Ls 
lighter color...you don’t see any dark heavy types, 
do you? I guess that’s why Chesterfields are milder.
"I’m told that uniformly lighter color is due to 
cross-blending. It sort of welds all the tobaccos 
into one.
"And here’s something else. Notice that these long 
shreds are all cut the same width. It stands to rea­
son they burn smoother and cooler.
"I don’t pretend to be an expert but it looks to 
me as if they make Chesterfields right.
io-Tit nnfi. Tlmt’s thp. V»pst test after all.
Newman Club To 
Hold Night Dance
C. S. EDMÄN
PRINTER
6470 Monitor Street
C. M. E. S. TO MEET
The C. M. E. S. will meet Thurs­
day in Room 10, Machinery Hall. All sophomores and juniors are requested to be present and to 
bring their lunches if they wish.
Campus Personalities
Continued From Page 1
is also an art critic and is very 
fond of etchings.
In addition to his duties at Car- 
negij Dr. Baker engages in many 
other activities. He is a director of the Chamber of Commerce, a member of the Modern Language 
Association, the Head Masters' As' sociation and the Duquesne club. I-Ie has a Phi Beta KaiSpa key, and is a member of Tau Beta Pi, hon­orary fraternity, and Beta Tlieta Pi, social fraternity. He is also the 
author of a number of books and is closely connected with the lit­erary world. He has many interna­tional connections and is well known in Europe.
The Newman Club has engaged Fritz Kirsch and his Olympians to furnish the music for another of its popular Wednesday Night Dances to be held tomorrow night, from 
9:00 to 12:00'. Members of the club will be admitted for twenty- five cents, and noiirmembers for seventy-five. Those members who wish to pay their annual dues of $3.50 in installments, may pay seventy-five cents admission, to the dance, fifty cents of which, will be applied to their dues.
Arrangements are under way for the club’s Fall Dance, which is to be held Friday, November 11, at the Knights of Columbus, Ball­room. Gerald Doran ’32, chair­man, has not yet anounced his committee. The admission price for this dance has been reduced front $2.50, as in other years, to $1 for members and $1.50 for non­members.
The clubroom committee, under the chairmanship of Charles Bros- lcey, vice president of the club, has been studying localities for the new clubroom recently author­ized by the Board of Governors of the club. As yet no decision has been reached, but a report will be submitted at the November 
meeting of the board. It is plan­ned to establish a meeting place which would be open for Catholic students twelve hours a day. A library and a number of recrea­tional facilities are. being consid­ered.
A design for a Thumb Station was given' first prize in the archi­tectural contest at Clemson Col­lege. A Thumb Station is a place for students to rest while awaiting 
rides to school.
Alma Henrietta Weise_____________Martin DeWitt Grow (1)__________Robert Louis Holtmeier___________Dorothy Shaw Rodgers (1)________
Kathryn Helen Kahr (1)__________Alice Jessie Thompson_____________Irving Joseph’ Weinstein (1)______
FRESHMEN
Alan Cramer Byers (1) _-__________Wallis Sylvester Hamilton (1)____
William Landsberg (1)____________William Edwards Bayers, Jr_____
Theodore George Daub (1)________Robert Anthony McConnell (1)____Isabel Shelton (1)_________________Edward Martin Craig (1)_________
Nancy Ann McQuade (1)_________Morris Fisher_____________________Virginia May Siegel_______________Ruth Schoenberger ________________
Raymond Patrick Hanna (1)______Oscar Herbert Hakman (1)_______
Betty Estelle Watson----------------------Ruth B. Levin (1)_________________
Willard James Osborn___=.________Paul John Failla___________________
Robert) Heer Gerster (1)__________Lillian Bertha' Heeren_____________
William James Sharbaugh_________Miriam Tamar MalakoiT------------------
Herbert Frank Schwarz------------------Eugene J. Mackey_________________Frank Alberb Roy Mi net (1)______
Albert Adolph Nickel______________John Robert England---------------------
John Brockman Baumann_________Thelma Shelly ^------------------------------
Hilda M. Eilers------------------------------
Paul William Koch-------------------------Barry Mulligan___________________
Florence Ethel Weaver_____________’
5.85
0.005.555.55 
5.54
5.515.515.485.48 5.46 
5.43
5.31 5.335.32 
5.275.25
5.25 5.23 5.19 
5’. 18 
5.15
0001020000020000020002020200020002000101010102000001010200
^

---------------------------------------------------

THE CARNEGIE TARTAN, TUESDAY. OCTOBER 25. 1932
Ele
PLAID SPORTS 
SCREEN 
•
BY JOE BRONSON
PRE-SEASON REPORTS WHICH DRIFTED AROUND THE COUN­TRY FROM OUT AT SOUTH BEND had it that “Hunk” Anderson was about to produce one of the greatest teams ever to run up and down the gridiron, but many fans said it was the same old ballyhoo; and when this same team trampled over its first two opponents the critics said that Its opposition was poor, but after Saturday’s contest with the Tartans there are few Carnegie rooters who do not believe the pre- season reports. Never in Carnegie's history has a Plaid squad en­countered such a powerful team, and the players are not disheartened over the 42-0 defeat, but rather are they loud in their praise for their superior opponents. It was almost inhuman the way that Irish eleven ran off their plays. It looked more like a machine going into action than eleven individuals. The timing was good; the interference excel­lent, the blocking almost perfect; and the running of the backs phe­nomenal. Not only a few times did they click but on almost every play they went through their duties with clock like precision. That the Tartans were outplayed and outclassed is no secret, the players will tell you as much, but in spite of these odds the Plaid eleven did not fold up and quit; they were in there fighting every minute. That Notre Dame team earned every score they made, and when the final whistle blew they knew they had been in a football game. That Car­negie was handicapped with the loss of Ray Tesser and Co-captain Hooks Sample can not be doubted, but with these two men in the game it is doubtful if the score would have been materially different. The Notre Dame supply of reserves seemed almost unlimited; the second string men appeared to be as good as the first and the other subs as good as them. The six touchdowns were made by six different men; Murphy and Vejar being the only ones of the first eight backfield men who failed to score.Well, it is over with and will go down in the records as one of the worst defeats ever suffered by a Carnegie team, but to the present stu­dents and players it will stand for one thing, and that is—a great Irish eleven.
TO SINGLE OUT INDIVIDUAL STARS IN SUCH A CONTEST IS VIRTUALLY IMPOSSIBLE. The whole Notre Dame team played a whale of a game. Lulcats and Koken were very tricky runners while Banas and Melinkovich were almost unstopable in line plunges. Kurth and Krause, the giant Notre Dame tackles, were the proverbial immovable obstacles and it was seldom that they were out of a play when it came in their vicinity. Co-captain George Kavel, who played the entire con­test, prevented scores several times by his excellent open field tackling. Red Jones, who played such a marvelous game against W. & J'., gave another fine exhibition of defensive play, and Siegal, who relieved him, ably held up his end of the game.
THE ONE BRIGHT FEATURE OF THE WHOLE AFTERNOON was the performance of the Kiltie band. The Kilties who are always a col­orful group to watch put on a clever act between halves which brought them a generous cheer from the Notre Dame rooters. The act which was of particular interest was a large Notre Dame banner which was floated in the air with the aid of many gas filled balloons.
IT WAS A BAD DAY ALL AROUND FOR CARNEGIE TEAMS. The Cross Country squad journeyed all the way to South Bend only to come home decisively trounced by the Irish Harriers. Those boys from In­diana seem to have the Indian sign on us Pennsylvanians. The plebe football team went down to Morgantown and were thoroughly trimmed by the Mountaineer yearlings. This year's plebe team which is weaker than usual were at the short end of a 4G-6 score, and it is also the. first time the West Virginians have been able to turn the trick for four years. Well—“Better Time Are Coming Bye and Bye”—maybe.
JOCK SUTHERLAND’S GOLDEN PANTHER OF THE UNIVERSITY OF PITTSBURGH met its first stumbling block of the year on Saturday afternoon. Pitt who had run roughshod over all its opponents to date found the Big Ten team, who had been previously defeated by Michigan and tied by Indiana, too strong defensively for them and had to be content with a 0-0 tie. It is going to be one sweet game over in the stadium this coming Saturday afternoon when Pitt and Notre Dame clash. Our vote goes to the Irish by at least two touchdowns.New York University, who were previously undefeated, found Andy Kerr's Colgate team too strong for them, and the former Wash-Jeff mentor’s outfit came off the field with a 14-0 victory.It looks as if Michigan is going to be the Big Ten champions this year. As yet the Wolverines have to taste defeat and the toughest part of their schedule Is behind them. Purdue is almost out of the run­ning because of their 7-7 tie with Northwestern.Southern California continued their victorious march by trimming the favored Stanford team 13-0. Pop Warner's Cardinals were the fa­vorite but the underdog came through in fine fashion and are now headed toward the Pacific coast championship.
THE TARTAN FOOTBALLERS HAVE LITTLE CHANCE FOR A MUCH NEEDED REST, because this week they go to Philadelphia to moot tho undefeated Temple Owls on Friday night. Temple got off to a alow start, but in tho last two games have been stepping right along, and just about this Friday night they are going to be a tough nut to 
’¿rack. Temple, so far this year boasts of victories over Thiel, West /irginia, Bucknell, and Denver University. The Cherry and White oam has a strong line and a fast backfield and they expect to take the artans. In each of tho two meetings on the gridiron with Temple the 'ails have emerged victorious. Last year the Skibos administered Owls their only defeat. The score was 19-13. Two years ago ill Eyth, and John Karcis led tlie> way to a 32-13 victory. This Temple is out for revenge, so we can look for a hard fought game.
ERY MEAGER CROWD WANDERED OVER TO THE GYMNA- A ON SATURDAY to witness the football game on the Grid-Graph. of those few who were there, most of them left during the third :er. However, a few loyal Skibo followers stayed until the end, ‘.hey are to be congratulated for their spirit. The Mortar Board tiicipation of a holiday crowd had a regular refreshment stand set it most of the ice cream, candy, doughnuts, and cider were con- i by the members. However, they managed to sell the keg of to a certain Forbes street fraternity who are contemplating a mas party. This column might not have been written if it hadn’t For that glorious Gloria Kloos who came to the rescue of your id scribe. A great big1 doughnut was the donation.
OHN KARCIS, WHO IS PLAYING FULLBACK FOR BENNY )MAN’S BROOKLYN DODGERS, stopped in town last week long 
r to say hello. John is doing quite well in professional football . a result he is a mere shadow of his former self. He is down pounds but is bowling them over .iust the same.
2 News, which is pub- ti the interest of Carnegie in Philadelphia and sur- f territory, is the most re­ovation of the Philadelphia
publication contains edi- .ews articles, and features, of the four pages is de- :irely to advertisements, 
representatives of the Morrison Alumnae Asso* 111 be the dinner guests ecutive Board on Novem- 
ho Carnegie Inn. dll be discussed for the ig annual business meet- •a to be held in tho Col­l-13 North Craig street, lay, Novomber 5, at 2 
lary Craighead Biinton vman for this event and Dunnells is vice cluiir*
>wing committee is in he annual homecoming, 18-19, the week-end of '.e-Pitt football game: Spooner, Gail Sellers rothy King, Frances Nancy Sloan.Year’s Tea in Recrea- 11 be held on January \ H. Harrold, chair- assisted by the execu-
lefit BridgeSchenley has been 
) scene of the annual
benefit bridge party on February 11. An extra scholarship drive 
was found necessary last year, but this year the members hope to raise the entire fund in one affair. Charlotte Bailey is chairman; Eleanor Talmadge, vice chairman.During March a play will be pre­
sented to the alumnae by the De­partment of Drama. Arrangements are being made by Virginia Seibert Gillespie.
Helen Boyd McCully is in charge 
of the lecture to be given by Dr. Thomas S. Baker on the evening of April 24.
Philadelphia Clan The annual football dinner will lie held at the La Casa Restaurant, North Broad street, at Hunting Park avenue, at 6 o’clock on Fri­
day evening, the night of the Car- negie-Temple game.
After the party the group will at­tend the game in a body. Several 
surprises have already been plan­ned by the committee. Billy Hays’ Orchestra has promised to include 
some Carnegie songs in their din­ner music. Jack Hotchkiss, a for­mer cheerleader who entertained so well at the last party, will per­form again on Friday evening.
_The price of the dinner will be 75 cents. All those ¦who expect to attend should communicate with the Clan secretary, Ray D. Gill, at 
the Mermont Apartments, Bryn Mawr, Pa.
Skibo Sophs Who Are Aiding Team
Powerful Irish Machine 
Defeats Tartan Team 42-0
Plebes To Report 
For Cross-Counlry
All Freshmen who are inter­ested in trying out for the Cross-country team should do 
so immediately and report to Coach Guy Halferty in the Gymnasium. Very few men 
have reported so far for this sport and there is an excellent chance for new men to make the 
team. There are five meets to be run off which means that there will be ample opportu­
nity for new candidates to get a fair trial.
Records Show 
Basketball is 
On Upswing
Last Two Years are 
Most Successful 
for Tartans
Although the Tartan basketball team of last year gained national 
prominence, and the one of the year before set up a successful rec­ord, the history of the Carnegie 
floor team reveals that Plaid quin­tets have not always had a smooth path to travel, but on the contrary 
the records reveal that for several seasons the Tartans had to fight hard to find a factory out of the jumpled heap of defeats.
The first records of a Carnegie basketball team are back in 1907 
when the team won five games and lost five, and of the victories, one 
was over Pitt to the tune of a 32- 22 score.
In 1926 the team established the best record it had ever made until that time by copping 15 victories against 10 defeats. Although the 
quintet of 1927 did mat establish as good a record it recorded two vic­
tories over strong foes. The one was a last minute triumph gained over Pitt, and the other was a hard- earned victory over City College of New York on the New Yorkers’ home floor. This was the first game the hoys from the City Col­lege of New York had lost in ¡Sev­eral years on their home court.
The years of 192S, 1929 and 1930 were dismal ones for the Skibos. In these three years the teams could gather only six victories and 
in one of the years the team went through the season without a win.The second year of coaching by 
Buzz Hogan brought with it a new era of basketball to Cai’negie. By that time his system was fairly es­tablished and a team composed mostly of sophomores went out to cop 11 victories against seven de­feats. Last year the team literally burned up their opponents by win­ning IS games out of a tough 25 game schedule.
Last year's team boasted of vic­tories over Duquesne, W. & J., University of Chicago, Yale, Prince­ton, Temple, New York University, Buffalo and several others. The prospects for this year’s team are even better than last year, andwhen the basketball season opens 
up watch the Tartans go.
BASKETBALL RECORD
W. L.1932 ..........................................IS 71931 ..........................................n 7
1930 .......................................... 3 61929 ......................................... 3 131928 ......................................... 0 131927 ......................................... 6 S1926 ..........................................15 10
1925 ......................................... S S
Notre Dame Forwards 
Check Lone Skibo 
Scoring Threat
KAVEL’S GREAT 
WORK FEATURES
Loss Of Sample Handicaps 
Plaid Defense As Irish 
Score Six Times
A great Notre Dame machine 
that radiated unauencliable rays of power and punishment had little 
difficulty in handing Carnegie the most crushing defeat in the latter’s gridiron history by amass­ing 42 points to none for Tech. The Irish used only the most orthodox of plays, depending upon their superior blocking and tack­ling for the victory. The same Tartan team that held Notre Dame 19-0 last year, fought hard out there in Soutli Bend—make no mistake about that—but simply could not cope with the superior brand of football produced at the famous Indiana institution.Carnegie’s only scoring chance came early and suddenly in the 
game and for a few short moments Tartan rooters had visions of an­other memorial upset. On the first 
play following the kickoff, ICoken’s attempt to pass was smothered by the Plaid forwards and when the pile was untangled Carnegie had possession of the ball 11 short yards from the goal line. But Notre Dame quickly rendered the Tartan running attack helpless and, as a last resort, a pass was at­tempted which also failed.From this point on, the Scotch warriors were decidedly on the de­fensive. After a preliminary ex­change of punts Mike Koken set sail from his own 47-yard line and, behind perfect interference, nego­tiated the necessary yardage for the initial touchdown.
The second quarter, with the Irish first-stringers in the game, 
was the most disastrous from a Skibo standpoint. Three 7-pointers were registered in this period; the first two coming as the result of concerted drives and the last after a beautiful 60-yard touchdown run- back of a Tartan punt by Jaskwich.In the period following the inter­mission Notre Dame gained pos­session of the ball via fumble route 
in Carnegie territory and drove it over the goal line on a series of short but successful advances. The last tally was due largely to a 20-yard pass which ended up on the Tar­tan 10-yard mark. From this point Lukats, Koken and Banas each carried the ball with the last- named going over for the counter.The loss of co-Captain Sample, wh,o was unable to play because of an injured leg, was keenly felt once the Notre Dame offense got under way. Hooks is a power on the defense and his absence mate­rially weakened that important de­partment. And the leadership qualities of Kavel, Carnegie’s other captain, were never more clearly shown than in the Irish encounter. 
George bore the brunt of the Plaid attack, was unusually busy defen­sively with Notre Dame runners who spent most of their time in the Skibo secondary, and in gen­eral set a wonderful example of play for his teammates to follow.The present humiliation which Notre Dame has forced on Carne­gie leaves the Tartans in about the same position with respect to the Irish that existed after the game in 1925. In that year the South Benders mopped up the field with the Skibos and it was the burning desire for revenge more than any­thing else which carried Carnegie to that famous 19-0 victory the fol­lowing year.
Grid-Graph For
Temple Game
Graduate Manager Overend 
wishes it to be announced that the Grid-Graph will be in opera­tion for the Temple game this Friday night. For the past two 
years the Tartans have given an excellent account of them­selves against Temple, and this year’s game is expected to be interesting. There will be no charges for students; as they will be admitted on their stu­dent book. The admission for outsiders will be twenty-five cents.
Cinder Stars 
Break Many 
Track Marks
Revived School Interest 
In Running Teams 
Shown Lately
In the last few years, the Tartan 
Track men have assaulted the 
school records with such vigor 
that, of the seventeen listed rec­
ords, eight have been broken and two tied. Captain Tom Coulter lead the onslaught with four rec­ords to his credit. Coach Halfer- ty’s record, which had been stand­ing about twenty long years, was among those to fall. Incidentally, that Tartan runner who has been holding on to that half-mile record' since 1914 had better look to his laurels. Last year, in a meet with the Pitt Frosh, fleet-footed Roger Burke battled to a win and tied that aged record.
These record-breaking acliieve- mens have placed the teams of the last few years on a par with those of a decade ago. A decline of school interest caused the Carne­gie track fortunes to take a drop about, five years ago, previous to that the Tartans always had one of
Skibos Meet 
Temple Under 
Lights Friday
Plaid Hopes To Stop 
Unbeaten Veteran 
Owl Team
The Hoot Owl and the old Hoot- 
mon clash athletically as well as 
verbally this Friday night when 
Carnegie’s Big Red team invades 
Philadelphia to meet the unbeaten 
Temple machine. The contest will 
mark the Tartans first appearance 
under the mazdas and as Carnegie 
is a favorite in the Carnegie 
City, in view of the thrilling Car­
negie Temple clashes of the past, 
a large turnout is expected.
The Owls have yet to taste the 
sting of defeat this season. Their 
inaugural contest -with Thiel 
proved little more than a warm-up 
as the 31-0 score would indicate. The following week however, was a different story and it was only after the hardest kind of a game that they were able to emerge vic­torious over West Virginia by a 14-13 count. Temple's winning ways continued against Bucknell to. the tune of 12-0 and last Friday Denver University journeyed all the way to Philadelphia to take a 14-0 lacing.Temple first appeared on Car­
negie’s schedule in 1930 and has been a fixture ever since. In that inaugural contest the Owls flashed unexpected strength and it was due largely to the individual efforts of Dutch Eyth that the Plaid was able to come off with a 32-13 win. Last year Temple was even stronger and the Skibos were quite satis­fied with a 19-13 victory in a game that seldom found the spectators in 
their seats.This year’s Owl squad is built around Len Wliittock its captain and one of the most capable quar terbacks in the East. Whittok was the largest thorn in Carnegie’s side during the two games played and will be the man the Tartans have to stop Friday night. Eddie Zulcas, Aesta and Regan round out the Temple attack and combine with a veteran line to give Phila­delphia fans a truly formidable outfit.
• Temple’s rise in Eastern football circles has been as short as it has been spectacular. Only a few short years ago the Owls were consid­ered the easiest kind of a set-up while now the “name” teams of the East are very careful about playing Temple. A large portion of the credit, for Temple’s present 
impressive football status is due Coach Heinie Miller who has care­fully and capably welded a great combine out of the raw material at hand.
In light of these facts, Carnegie will enter Friday’s game practical­ly on even terms with their oppon­
ents and a Temple victory will be far from an upset. Tartan war­riors who have played against Temple have the utmost respect for the latter’s gridiron prowess and sport fans who have seen the 
previous Carnegie-Temple clashes are anticipating another great one.
the strongest teams in the district, and on several occasions won na­tional honors. Track is now re­gaining its lost prestige for we find that while the teams during 1927-29 could only corner three vic­
tories in twelve starts, during the last two years we have won ten vic­tories in fifteen meets.The Cross Countiy men smashed all existing records last year and replaced them with new ones. The varsity course record belongs to last year’s captain, “.Tess” Price, Roger Burke was again spurred to record-breaking achievements when he won over the Pitt Frosh, and 
set a new record for the Freshman course.
The high spot of the season was a decisive victory over Pitt in which three Tartans tied for first. Only the rugged West Virginians and the debonair New Yorkers were able to eke out victories over the Plaid in five’ starts. Cross Country also saw lean years but 
the teams of the last few years have been “up in there.” For the 
greatest harrier to ever wear the Plaid we point to “Howdy” Dykeman, of a decade ago, who placed second in the inter-colle­giate championships one year. He also holds two track records which will be hard to touch.
FORBES NATIONAL BANK
“Your Home Bank”
FIFTH AND OAKLAND - - - PITTSBURGH
OFFICERS 
RICHARD K. MELLON__
GEORGE H. CAMPBELL______________________Vice PresidentHARRY S. BROWN___________________________________Cashier
________Assistant Cashier-------------Assistant Cashier
BOARD OF 
JOHN G. BOWMAN Chancellor University of Pittsburgh 
THOMAS S. BAKER 
President Carnegie Institute of Technology JAMES M. BOVARD 
Moorhead & Knox, Attorneys GEORGE H. CAMPBELL 
Vice President JOHN F. CASEY 
President John F. Casey Company A. REX FLINN 
President Booth & Flinn Company HOWARD M. JOHNSON 
Auditor Ligonier Valley Railroad ELMER E. COLE 
President National Union Fire Insurance Company
DIRECTORS
RICHARD K. MELLONPresident 
Director Mellon National Bank 
WILLIAM S. MOORHEAD 
Moorhead & Knox, Attorneys 
HERBERT A. MAY Vice President Union Drawn Steel Company 
HENRY A. PHILLIPS 
Real Estate 
ALAN M. SCAIFE 
Vice President Wm. B. Scaife & Sons Company 
EDWARD R. WEIDLEIN 
Director Mellon Institute of Industrial Research
Women’s Athletics by Gloria Kloos
The action of the Student Couu- 
cil in setting aside a large portion of the W. A. A’s funds for the erection of an outing cabin is ap­preciated by every member of the association. The surplus will draw sufficient interest in the next five years to enable the actual con­struction to be started in a not too distant future. It is hoped that 
the present freshman class, at least, will enjoy a season of outings there before their graduation. We take this opportunity to thank the Student Council in behalf Of the Association for their help in initiat­ing such a worthy project.Although a complete account of the social aspect of W. A. A's swimming party appeared in last week’s gossip column, we feel that it is not too late to give the affair a brief resume. Several races not featured on the program offered considerable amusement to the spectators. Ask Mitzie Gray to tell you about them. We suggest
Plebes Bow 
To Powerful 
Wr Va. Frosli
Crippled Yearlings No 
Match For Big Blue 
Machine
An unusually powerful West Vir­
ginia Freshman squad crushed the 
Carnegie Plebes under a 45-6 score 
last Saturday at Morgantown. Led 
by Canton, a shifty running half­
back, the Mountaineers rolled up 
seven touchdowns on Coach Armen- 
trout’s crippled squad.
In the first half the lads from the 
hill district piled up 26 points be­
fore the Carnegie team could get 
started. Near the end of the first 
half, however, the Skibos started 
an offnsive of their own and scored 
quickly on a series of passes by 
Spisak to Bowser and Sanford, 
which placed the oval on the West 
Virginia five yard stripe. A pass 
to Lenz put the ball' over for a 
touchdown.
The little Tartans held the 
mountaineer aggregation even in 
the third period, but in the finale 
the West Virginia machine again 
got going and countered three 
times.Carnegie’s yearlings will strive to break their losing streak this Saturday when they encounter Kiski at Saltsburg. Kiski has also found the going a bit rough this season, having lost to Navy and Wash-Jeff, but they are always a battle for any team. W. and J. will bring their strong squad to Pitts­burgh the following week to en­gage the Plebes in the Carnegie Bowl. The Proxies defeated Kiski 10-0 Saturday.
another swimming party next semester. By that time the deep sea lions who were searching for coins may have developed sufficient wind to keep them dowu until they can find the treasure. By the way why don’t the upperclassmen evei dash over to the pool and take a plunge after classes? There is nothing that peps you up more than a cool dip after a stuffy quiz. We all need it.Rifle season is set to open witli 
a loud bang. Leat Vagritey, the man ager, is making plans for a huge turnout on the part of the Fresh­men. Remember that all upper­classmen are welcome to try out, even if they have failed to do so in the past few years. Instructors classes will be held in the Gym be­fore any attempt is made to storm the range. Awards are made each year to the high-scorers by the Men’s Rifle Team. The awards are worth working for, so get busy and shoot away.____________
Tech Harriers 
Lose 37-18 To 
Notre Dame
Irish Outdistance Tartan 
Thinly Clads In First 
Meet Of Year
The Tartan Harriers journeyed 
to South Bend last Saturday only 
to receive a decisive beating by the 
Irish 18-37. The Notre Damers 
gained five of the first six places, 
Bob Schell breaking the string by taking third place for Tech. Burke, Allan, Giolma, and Stanlcey took the next four places in that order The Irish proved too tough an assignment for the Tartans in the1 first meet of the year. In spite o. (lie loss of their three best men of last year’s team, including Wilson who made good on the Olympic 
Team last summer, Notre Dame gathered together enough good men to soundly trounce tho Tar­tans. Next Saturday the Tartan Tliinlies meet Geneva in Schenley Park and there are hopes that with the added training and experience they may be able to chalk up a vic­tory for the Plaid.
Dr. Esqnerre Offers 
Cold Prevention Tips
"A normal and rational life is the best preventive for colds,” says Dr. Edmond Esquerre, direc­tor of student health at Carnegie. He claims that too many students delay taking the proper precau­tions until they contract a cold 
Balanced meals, adequate exercte and at least eight hours of slei each night will fortify the stude against colds.
According to Dr. Esquerre, 1 resistance of the human mach is most important.
...THE COLLEGE MEN’S 
Ectciontc lnTda
CTTERE’S a college tradition that’B one of the 
JU ^est • • • “Half past eight is the time to tele­
phone home!” It’s not in the Freshman handbook; 
it’s not in the Rules. But here’s the reason for its 
popularity:
At 8:30 P. M. low Night Rates go into effect on 
tion to Station calls. These are calls for a telep^ 
(like a local call) and NOT for a specific person.
Take advantage of the saving—just give the operat 
your home telephone number. The folks are pr^ 
ably at home at 8:30 P. M. But best of all, and 
make doubly sure, keep a regular date to teleplio 
home each week. Then you can always make use 
the inexpensive Station to Station service.
From Pittsburgh to:
Station to Station Cull 3-Minutc Connection 
Wherever applicable Federal tax is included. 
Day Rate Night Rate
. ?0.60?0.35Cumberland, Md. ....65.35
.60.35.40.35Parkersburg, W. Va..80.40

---------------------------------------------------

WITH CLIVE IN INDIA
**'Nature in the Raw”—as portrayed 
by the noted artist, Karl Godwin 
... inspired by the fierce and bril­
liant assault by Clive and a hand­
ful of followers, outnumbered 20 
to 1 by savage hordes of bloodthirsty 
natives, at the Battle ofPlassey—the 
birth of the British Indian Empire 
—05 described in the famous Henty 
book, “With Clive in India ”
THE OAKLAND 
BANK”
Peo p S es- 
Pittsburgh 
Trust Co.
the services ot ex­
perienced officers are 
available to our de­
positorsOakland Branch
Forbes and Meyran
MEMBER FEDERAL 
RESERVE SYSTEM
Yes sir, that handbook which we received at registration time sure is a knockout. It's got everything in it from fish to soup and back­wards. Anything you don’t want to know about is answered by sim­ply looking at the index and then 
‘urning to page x-y¦•/.. My hat is iff to the editor of so complete a vork of art. The cover is done up n fine style and the contrasting shades of green show that he knows his color chart, or should I say spectrum? Let the art students 
or some of those P. So D.’s answer.
And, speaking of art students, 
¿here must be a great game going on about the lockers and their com­binations. I wonder if it isn’t 
made that way so that the stu­dents meet each other. Take in the two schools, why wo hardly 
know each other and they seem to be well acquainted over there, es­pecially if you happen to be walk- ng down through the cave in the lower floor of the Arts Building adjacent to these small pill boxes 
known as telephone booths. Or maybe this is only one of their di­versions—i wonder.
I thought l nau a corner on the parking question but I seem to 
have lost out. Some one seems to nave gotten next to a lot of do’s and dont’s and published them in a con­cise form just to confuse the poor night student. Really though, the 
parking question is one of more ban passing interest. It’s a per- texing one if you have a car, and 
. complexed one if you don’t have one. I say complexed one especial­ly when you have an arrangement with some one who has a car to ride you back and forth to school jnly to find out that your place has heen taken by some fair one over : in that congenial arts building who happens to live In an altogether different part of the country and you have to perambulate home as best you can.
Glad to note that the size of class does not have any bearing on the success of the class or the amount of time which can be con­sumed in studying because if it did, ->uld be out of luck. My classes 
'I small this year and I was to the point of wondering I would do if I was on trying to shirk one too many assignments stweek. They sure were 
, especially after such od of rest between the cer last year, and the semester this year. But then ¿e are the things which go to make up the life of a night student,, episodes o,r something like them.1 see that we don’t have a mo­nopoly on all tilings a la night. The day school for the first time is going nighy to play Temple in Phil­
adelphia. 'Hope they can see the goal post.) Sure must bo a sensa­
tion to Wake up in the middle of the night, to find that you are at­tending day school in order to wit­ness a night game. We poor night students will bo deprived of the pleasuro of seeing our team van­quish Tomple next Friday night in 
Philadelphia. Pily the band can’t go with them, as I am sure that the Philadelphians would ima­gine the Kilties were parading 
around in their grass skirts, Ha­waiian you know, because it would be difficult to distinguish the Plaid in the dark.
A clipping from a daily paper records that at Allegheny College there is a movement under way to encourage alumni to return for 'more education. Now I thought after a student graduated he fin­ished, there just wasn't anything more for him to learn, if'there was more things to learn why graduate a fellow. At all events the stu­dents are returning for instruction which is given without charge. 
Gee that is something especially when tuition is so hard to find. It isn't every college that would do such a thing.
And now we come to taxes and . taxation. I read that they are try­
ing to work up a scheme whereby everyone will come under that old adage, “you can’t dodge taxes and death.” The latter is true, but I know some who manage to dodge the taxi collector. Why they are even thinking of taxing the air you breathe, the English you speakj the thoughts you have, the color of your eyes, the texture of your hair, in fact there isn’t anything the tax makers haven’t thought of. They are simply tax mad. Wonder 
where they will stop.
Talking of dodging, I am simply going to dodge some one Saturday 
y get into the Industries Smoker.ouldn’t let a year pass without I*, jg to,Dne of these affairs. Those ndustries boys know how to do 'ings. I am going to be prepared, ¦; saying how just now, but at all iiy^ • will be on hand when the ome around. They are fam- •r their brand of eats. I mayMahatama G--------- after try-'i pass through the gates but I oing to try to got in. 
oe that the green light is still uWlng adjacent to the Commons id 1 can’t give any real reason \y it is burning in such an ob- ire place because traffic is pro­fited there—All! 1 have it. That’s -3 color of Industries, green you low. The one at the other end the dead end race track should ow red, the color of Arts, and in e middle we should have—no, ere isn’t any such color as blue the traffic scheme so I suppose y plan of the plaid is shot and I ill have to let good old Engineer- r out of-my scheme much as I re- t.my inability to be loyal to my ¿ge.• nd about now it is time for me •ugn off with "So long until next 
k”—That was the idle Night
PRESIDENT
WILLIAM R. HODDER 
William R. Hodder, night student 
in the degree course, Department of Mechanical Engineering heads 
the Night Student Council for thi9 year. Mr. Hodder has been a night student for a long number of years and has served the council in many capacities. He is a mem­ber of Phi Nu social fraternity, and Nu Sigma Alpha and Pi Delta Ep­
silon honorary fraternities.
Two Students 
Conduct Wind 
Tunnel Study
Graduates Investigate 
Calibration Of New 
Equipment
P. B. Stulen and H. N. Meixner, graduate students in Mechanical Engineering Department, are con­ducting an investigation in the Carnegie wind tunnel with the purpose of calibrating and stand­ardizing this comparatively new equipment.Air-flow conditions in the test section are being carefully deter­mined with respect to velocity and static pressure distribution as well as angularity, and a measure of turbalance in the stream. An interesting comparative study of means for determining angularity in the stream has been made. 
Model airfoils and airplanes are under test in order to ascertain their general characteristics, so that data might be comparable 
with that obtained in other labora­tories throughout the world. The N. A. C. A. has instituted a pro­gram for the purpose of aligning or standardizing the results ob­
tained for specified airfoils in va­rious tunnels. The work done sliere is intended to fall in line with this standardization.The.wind tunnel here is of the Gottingen single return duct type. The energy imparted to the air is thus conserved by restricting it to a closed path. Irregularities in the air stream are reduced by cas­cades in the four corners of the path, and minimized by restricted area at the entrance nozzle. The balance system used here is of the ballistic type. In this system the model is suspended by wires from an overhead platform mount­ed on direct reading scales. For drag determination, the model is arranged to swing down stream until the moment of the weight plus the vertical component of the air force balance the moment of the horizontal component. The displacement of the model is meas­ured by means of a sliding tele­scope mounted at the side of the tunnel, and the horizontal force 
computed.A study of distribution of pres­sure on various shaped cross-sec­tions in wind streams is being made by William O. Clinedinst, se­nior aeronautical engineer. The models are cylinders of various shaped sections with small orifices located on the surface which are connected to multiple manometer sets. The results obtained from such tests are not beneficial to aeronautics alone, but are of value in the design of buildings and smoke stacks as the pressure caused on such structures by winds is an important factor in the design of such structures.
Guild Proceeds Used 
For Needy Families
The proceeds of the annual Guild mmbership which closed October 
5 will be used to buy shoes and blankets for needy famlies. No definite arrangements have been made as yet, but Mrs. Mary C. Burnett, head of the Department of Social Work will meet with the Guild members to make the neces­
sary plans.Previously the Guild has furnish­ed a room in the Kingsley House, a local settlement house; supplied milk to destitute families; given 
Christmas gifts to poor children; and contributed to other worthy 
causes.
An educational innovation, the basis of which will be taking mo* tion pictures for classroom work, has been announced by Dr. Robert Maynard Hutchins, president of the University of Chicago.
Production will begin shortly at the university on a. series of 20 talkies on the physical sciences. Next fall they will be tried out on the members . of the freshman class.Lectures by noted professors will be synchronized with the films, which can be repeated as often as necessary to bring home thq les­son to the student.
Student of Station PLAID who will return again next week at this 
same hour. The Tartan bids you ail “Good Night.”
Night Arts To 
Hold Election 
On October 28
Room 308 to be Scene of 
Voting As Students 
Select Officers
Election of officers for the Night 
College of Fine Arts is to be held 
in room 308 on Friday night, Octo­
ber 28, at 10 o’clock.
The positions of president, vice 
president, secretary and treasurer 
for the present school year are to 
be filled by the election. All stu­
dents should be sufficiently inter­
ested to see that capable.men are 
elected to these offices that they will be sure to cast their ballots at this election. The men who are finally elected are to represent the Night College of Fine Arts on the Night Student Council. These of­ficers, together with the balance of the Council, are directly responsi­ble for all night student activities that are non-athletic in nature. They represent the students in all matters of night student welfare, 
and act as a liason between the night student body and the admin­istrative faculty.The Night Student Council' has 
established several requirements which a student is expected to ful­
fill before he is eligible for office. The most important of these are: the student must have had two full years previous registration (these need not be all in the same col­lege, or consecutively); that he has paid the Night Student Coun­cil activity fee, and registered in the particular college at the time he seeks election; and that he has taken part in the activities of the Night Student Council for at least one year previous to election, and that his work has been recognized by the Council. These require­ments of course apply to all col­leges. In order to avoid confusion and save time, make sure that your candidates fill all these require­ments before they are nominated. Students not having the above qualifications cannot hold office, and are not qualified for nomina­tion.
Night Arts students are caution­ed to be sure to have their regis­tration card with them to gain ad­mittance on Friday evening, Octo­ber 28, at the election which will be held in room 308 at 10 o’clock.
DIDJA NOTICE
THAT one of our daily pa­pers cribbed our style. Imita­tion is the sincerest kind of flattery. Who threw that?
THAT Dame Nature is garbed in her most colorful dress. You can’t improve on nature. (NOT and ad.)THAT these snappy nights make one heave a sigh and long to stay near the fireside with a good book to read, or perhaps listen to the radio. These dreamers. Tsk. Tsk.THAT the Industries smoker will be held this Saturday p. m., and what’s more, we are going to crash the affair. Yeah! That’s right, try to keep us out.THAT one of our better known night stew-dents was caught red-handed Escorting some visitors through the Arts school the other night. Who 
was the fair one, kind sir?THAT another one, a chisel- er, by the way, got his name on page 1 of the Tartan last week.THAT, notwithstanding Coun­cil’s ruling on the word., the En­gineers still spell night—nite. Look at the political calling card. This comes from our school which boasts of the brainiest men on the campus.THAT someone in the “inner circle” wants to know who pens this stuff. It’s a dark secret, yowsah!THAT in spite of his pench­ant for plain and fancy loafing, the Idle Night Student manages to get around quite a bit.THAT one secret to success is, “Keep your ears and eyes open and your mouth shut.”THAT some people can squack louder and longer than anybody else and accomplish exactly nothing.THAT that’s that, and I’ll be seenya.
Statue Of Venus 
Furnishes P. & D.’s 
Fine Rendezvous
The opinion is general among 
night P. and D. students, that the 
most popular meeting place in the 
Arts school is at the statue of 
Venus de Milo. Every night so 
many students gather to sit at her 
base that one is almost led to be­lieve that this plaster statue must surely possess some occult influ­ence to attract such veneration. One is hardly conscious of her irre­sistible charms.To pass her without casting an affectionate glance at her, as she stands in her niche with all the beauty and feminine dignity which her Grecian sculptor gave her, is to suppress a natural instinct. If she were to tell that she has heard during her existence here, her sen­
sational disclosures would proba­bly send Walter Winchell into ob­livion. Here friendships are en­couraged, laughter rings, troubles are aired, dates are made, and gos­sip is heard. Drawing night stu-1 dents together to find solace in friendly tete a tetes as she does, she has become quite unconsciously popular.
Young ladies have been observed admiring the Grecian beauty of this great lady of perennial youth, but it is not known whether they also admire her generous proportions. The other night a lovely young lady was seen sitting at its base and leaning affectionately against the statue, apparently in sweet slumber. To the average student this was probably a very prosaic and banal sight, but to this finely touched one, it perhaps served as the meeting between the two great beauties of mythical lore, the Venus of Aphrodite, fictionized by Anstey as the Tinted Venus, and the Venus de Milo.
Night Architects Busy 
Preparing For Charette
Night students in the depart­ment of Architecture are preparing for their first charette of the year, which will take place next week. This initial baptism under fire will show to some extent what the night architects are able to accomplish. The present problem is an inter­esting one, and a glance at some of the .preliminary work being done 
by the night students reveals some good solutions. The night archi­tects have been assigned one sec­tion of the large drafting, room for the first time. This segregation should work to their advantage, as the troublesome moving around of previous years is entirely elimi­nated.
Preparation Of Tartan 
Mailing List Under Way
The mailing list of the Tartan is undergoing its annual revision which is always necessary at this time. The first issues of the week­ly have been mailed out as far as possible to all the names which have been reached up to this time. It is a very difficult task’to list all the names because of omissions, illegible writing and printing, and incorrect information, but the staff is doing all it can to bring the list up to date with as much dispatch as possible.
Call Issued For Night 
Student Puppet Staff
The night sales staff for Carne­gie Tech Puppet is being organized 
and those night students who are interested in working for the spe­cial insignia which is awarded by Puppet should send in their names and addresses as soon as possible to E. E. McDonald, Box 137, C. I. T. Post Office, or call at the Night Student Council Office, Room 144-C, Industries Building.
HOTEL SCHENLEY
Bigelow Boulevard and Fifth Avc. 
A convenient "place to eat-
Main Dining Room—Breakfast _____i.____:______50c-$l
Luncheon ----------------------------90c-SlDinner _____________________$1.50
Grill Room—
Luncheon ___________1___60c-75cBuffet' Dinner__________________$1
(Sunday evening: only)
Coffee Shop—
Breakfast__________________30c-50cLuncheon _________________50c-60c
Dinner _____________________$1.00
Night Ind. To 
Hold Smoker 
Saturday Eve.
Frolic Will Be Held In 
Gymnasium With Many 
Novel Features
The Night College of Industries 
is getting ready for its semi-annual 
smoker which will be held on Sat­
urday evening, October 29, start­
ing at 8:30 p. m. The men’s gym­
nasium will be used for the affair 
which is free for night industries 
men. The smokers given by the 
Night College of Industries have 
always been big affairs and this 
year’s smoker will be as big as 
ever as the same effort is being 
made by those in charge to give 
the night men the very best enter­
tainment possible during the even­
ing.
Talking movies are listed on the 
program together with other novel 
features. The all important box­
ing bouts, wiiich are always a fea­ture of the Night College of Indus* tries Smokers, have not been neg­lected and several contests have been arranged.Our famous Kiltie Band has promised to furnish us with the music for the evening, and we are always glad to have them with us. They are now in the pink of con­dition, having rehearsed constant­ly for the past several weeks.A free lunch is the order of the 
evening, and when Industries does something, they do it :n a big way. Sandwiches,, with all the trimmings and something to drink, not what you are thinking, will be served. And then smokes, well this will be a diversion and there will be plenty of the “weed” to go around so that every one in attendance can enjoy a puff or two.The preparation for the affair will be made during the afternoon, and all those workers who are in­terested in putting the affair over in good order are requested to be out by 2:30 p. m. in order to make preparations.
This is a Night College of Indus­tries affair and consequently open 
to the night students of this col­lege only. The admittance will therefore be through a night indus­tries registration card, so be sure to have your registration card with you in order that you will be as­sured of admittance, as those who do not have their card will have to be refused entrance.
HANDBOOK EDITOR
JOHN F. SIMPSON 
John F. Simpson, night student in the degree course, Department of Industrial Education, Night Col­
lege of Industries, is editor of the Night Student Carnegie Hand­
book. 'Mr. Simpson served the Night Student Council as secre­
tary, and was Night Editor of the 1932 Thistle. He is a member of Nu Sigma Alpha and Pi Delta Ep­silon honorary fraternities.
Bookstore To Operate 
Under Changed Schedule
Starting with this week the new 
schedule of hours will be in opera­
tion for sales to the night students. The schedule of hours will be from 6:15 p. m. until 8:45 p. m. Mon­
days to Fridays inclusive, holidays and vacations excepted. This new schedule will be in force until May 6, 1933.The book store, located in the basement of Administration Hall, 
is operated for the benefit and con­venience of the students at Carne­gie. A complete line of the necessi­ties which students have occasion to need is carried in stock and the prevailing prices are such that the materials are offered to the stu­dents at reduced prices.
Military Ball Puppet 
On Sale During Week
Urge Economy 
In The Use Of 
Lab. Material
Student Should Exercise 
Care With Material 
To Avoid Waste
Military Ball number of the Car­negie Tech Puppet will be on sale every night during this week. The price of the number is ten cents. Make sure to see one of the night salesmen and secure your copy of 
the college’s humorous magazine.
While Carnegie has been very 
fortunate in its tussle w?ith the de­
pression during the past period, 
the failure of conditions to improve 
lias made it quite necessary to map 
out an econom3r program for the 
college that will enable it to con­
tinue its program without calling 
upon the students to carry the load 
in the form of increased tuition, 
higher fees, and so forth. The de­
sire of the administration to keep 
the tuition fees at their present 
low level, in spite of prevailing con­
ditions, should be appreciated by 
the student body to a fitting ex­
tent. Naturally, we are referring 
solely to the night school.
The student, while probably ap­
preciating the advantages offered 
in low tuition rates, possibly does 
not realize that part of the respon­
sibility of carrying on rests upon 
him. All of us can do a little to­
wards keeping down costs in the 
departments in which we are reg­
istered, by practicing carefulness 
with supplies and equipment, by 
avoiding inexcusable waste, and by 
carefully considering just what he 
intends to do before beginning any work that makes the use of mate­rials an item of cost, no matter how inconsiderable it may seem at the time.Many, if not all, of the various departments have requested that the students practice as much care as possible, in an effort to keep down operating costs, and it is the 
least we can do to heed this re­quest, if for no other reason than to show our appreciation of the square deal that Carnegie has al­
ways given us.It isn’t merely a matter of school spirit, or any other over­worked principle. It is something of the duty of any gentleman to act in. such a way as to benefit the majority of his associates, and this can be done best in our cases by practicing economy in the matter of supplies and equipment, espe­cially those supplied as part of the course, and for which no additional fee is charged.
Ind. Workers Will 
Report Sat. In Gym
Preparation for the smoker t^ 
be held by the Night College of In­
dustries on Saturday evening, Oc­
tober 29. will start at 2:30 p. m. 
that afternoon. All night indus­
tries students intei*ested in earn­
ing points toward an insignia 
award are requested to report at 
the men’s gymnasium building on 
or before that time.
A great deal of work has to be done in order to make the smoker a success and all night industries students that can do so are urged to come out. All workers at this function are cautioned to be sure 
to record their names on the report sheet otherwise they may lose the points earned by their work.
Social Calendar 
For Night Schocl
Events which are schedulei for the night students durin* the year 1932-33 are publishei 
below. These affairs are so ar­ranged that there will be no, conflict with classes.November 12, Night College of Fine Arts — Dance — Thistle Hall.
November 25, Thanksgiving Week Recess Dance — Night Student Council Gymnasium 
Auditorium.December 3—Night College of Engineering—Banquet — Place to be assigned.January 7, 1933, Night College of Industries—Dance—Gymna­
sium Auditorium.January 21, 1933, Post-Holiday Dance—Night Student Council— Gymnasium Auditorium.February 4, 1933, Night Col­lege of Fine Arts — Dance — Thistle Hall.February 22, 1933, Washing­ton's Birthday Dance — Night Student Council — Gymnasium Auditorium.March 11, 1933, Night College of Engineering—Dance—Thistle Hall.April 22, 1933, Night College of Industries—Second Semester Smoker — Gymnasium Oudito- rium.April 29, 1933, Night College of Fine Arts—Dance — Thistle Hall.May 13, 1933, Inter-Night Col­lege Dance — Night Student Council — Gymnasium Audito­rium.All of the above dates are subject to change. If changed, notice of change will he an­
nounced previous to the affair.
—and raw tobaccos 
have no place in cigarettes
They are not present in Luckies 
... the mildest cigarette 
you ever smoked
r\7TE buy the finest, the very 
W finest tobaccos in all the 
world—but that does not 
explain why folks every­
where regard Lucky Strike as 
the mildest cigarette. The fact 
is, we never overlook the 
truth that "Nature in the 
Raw is Seldom Mild”—so
these fine tobaccos, after 
proper aging and mellowing, 
are then given the benefit of 
that Lucky Strike purifying 
process, described by the 
words—"It’s toasted”. That’s 
why folks in every city, town 
and hamlet say that Luckies 
are such mild cigarettes.
“It’s toasted”
That package of mild Luckies
man write a better book, preach a better sermon, or make a better moust-trap than his neighbor, tho he 
build his house in the woods, the world will make a beaten path to his door."—RALPH WALDO EMERSON. 
Does not this explain the world-wide acceptance and approval of Lucky Strike?
THE CARNEGIE TARTAN, TUESDAY, OCTORER 25, 1932

---------------------------------------------------

6THE CARNEGIE TARTAN" TUESDAY. OCTOBER 25. 1932
“Seco </}ll ~ 
Know, N Jill
3T(vt Cartiere 3Tartau
PHONE MAYFLOWER 2G00 
After Office Hour* Call 
__—Schcnlcy 9436 SporU Editor_
.-Hnzcl 9473 Plaid Editor.—Schcnlcy 9580 ..Schcnlcy 2389
Publinhcd weekly durinK the collo«« year by undor^raduntes of Carnàftlo Institute of Technology. Entered in tho Pittsburgh Pont Office aa Bccond-claHH matter.
ED1TOIWN-CHIEP-------------BUSINESS MANAGER-----
NEWS EDITOR___________ATHLETIC EDITOR_____PLAID EDITOR----------------
____________________________ELIZABETH PRELLER
_____________________________JOSEPH C. BRONSON. ________________________EDWARD E. McDONALD
ASSOCIATE EDITORS 
Copy Editors: Christine Lclghou Alumni Editor: Henrietta SteinbergDolly Allison Harry HowerExchange Editors:
Assignment Editor: Anthony Cnrnvale
Marjorie Dougherty Ruth Phillips
MANAGING BOARD THIS ISSUE 
Jnc<|UO Minnot'te, Edmund McCormick, Joseph Adams, Aiicc Henzi
JUNIOR EDITORS: Joseph Adams, Anthony Cacchionc, Loretta Coniin, Alice Henzi, John Hiltz, Edmund McCormick, Samuel Wicks, Jacque Minnotte.
ATHLETIC STAFF: Gloria Kloos, Women’s Editor; Ned Stirling, John Lowes, 
James Halfcrty, Jerry Hansen.
PLAID STAFF: James II. Sansonctti, News Editor; Frank Cassol, A. N. Evens, H. 
E. McGannon.
'PECIAL WRITERS': Mary McCullough, Stanton Williams.
DVERTISING- STAFF,: James E. Stahl, Manager; William Waldman, Assistant; Morton Garmise, Loren ICannenberg, John McGrane, William McKennn, William 
Sauvary.
IRCULATION STAFF: William Fingiass, Manager; Sidney Feldman, Leonard Ro­
senberg, Albert Pryce-Jones, Al>e Leipzig.
1EPORTERS: J. Clifton Carr, Jane Livingston, Herbert Schwarz, Constantine Mar­
garet Griffin, Veronica ICIoos, Anna Ladd, Virginia Cooper, Thelma Shelley, , Gertrude Breakstone, Jayne Henderson, Peter Paulus, Ruth Cohen, Harold Baer, Pauline Bevan. Jannette Black, Mirain MalakofT, Gwen Haddock, Ruth Gustafson, 
Jane Miller, Roy Minot, Virginia Siegel, William Lundsberg.
TYPISTS: Lucille Jacobs, Ann Kaufman.
Select Your Candidate With Care
\ Tomorrow at 9 :30 all students in classes at that time will 
’lie asked to vote for the man whom they favor for the next 
'j’residentlof the United States. At this same time, the faculty 
members and administrative personnel will also indicate their 
choices.
For the past several months, all three of the most import­
ant candidates have been expounding their theories of govern­
mental activity, assailing one another from all possible angles, 
and ballyhooing the cause of their parties so much that the 
person with but a mite of interest should have a general idea on 
•what grounds the candidates base their assumptions. In a time 
of depression, of course, it is of extreme importance that the 
voters know the character and ability of the candidates—prob­
ably one of the most important things to consider in the present 
campaign, since the Republican and Democratic platforms vary 
little in principle—and. their past accomplishments and sus­
ceptibility to the political boss’s mandates.
So much downright defamation and unsportsmanlike mud- 
slinging has appeared in print and has been spoken by the can­
didates’ henchmen that it is hard to really know the true capac­
ities and abilities of the men without much study. Some say 
there is little difference between the Republican and Democratic 
candidates and their platforms; others can point out many 
differences, especially between the two candidates. The So­
cialist candidate and platform both, differ from those of the 
other two parties. These degrees of difference and their signi­
ficance the voter should know, and lie should vote for the can­
didate who stands for the tilings that are fundamentally sound 
—not for the candidate who talks about airy nothings, making 
them appear as serious issues, or the one who promises impossi­
ble and impractical things. The voter should not be SAvejDt from 
his feet by the torrents of polished oratory.
As deplorable as the situation may be, it is nevertheless 
true that the great majority of voters—which are really a very 
small percentage of the people—make their choice yn some one 
or two issues \yhich are sometimes* relatively unimportant, or. 
because of some personal characteristic of the candidate, rather 
than 011 sound reason after careful consideration of the candi­
dates, their abilities, and what they stand for.
Tliere has been no other time in the history of the United 
States when it has been so important to choose a man and a 
party that can help to lead the country out of the present 
economic upheaval.
Hats Off' To The Kilties
Carnegie's spirited Kilties again brought honor- to their 
Alma Mater at the Notre Dame-Carnegie football game at South 
Bend last Saturday by their, novel display during the half pe­
riod. A. most unusual stunt which saw two crepe paper ban­
ners, each 30 feet long and five feet wide, being carried skyward 
by colored balloons during thè “N.D.” letter formation, thrill­
ed the 30,000 fans assembled for the game. The band boys re­
ceived one ol: the greatest ovations they have ever received. 
Jess Harper, athletic director at Notre Dame, acclaimed the 
Carnegie Kilties one of the 'best college bands he has ever 
heard.
It is a shame that the student body as a whole does not 
have as much school spirit as the hard working Kilties have.
To Mothers Of Freshmen
Editorial in Providence Bulletin.
If the deans of freshmen will copy the following note in their own handwriting—just to give the thing a personal touch—filling in tlie blank] spaces and mailing copies to 
the thousands of anxious mothers whose hoys are sleep­ing from under the parental roof for the first time, we are sure it will allay a tre­mendous amount of heart­ache.Dear Mrs. -------------.You will be more than happy toknow that your son, ------------, ar­rived on the campus at exactly ------------ E. S. T., and was im­mediately escorted to his rooms— charming, well ventilated rooms formerly occupied by (Judge Spoof or -whoever it was), and overlook­ing the historic old-campus. Pres­ident ---------------and his wife werewaiting for him with outstretched 
arms.President 4----------- and I havehad a long talk about------------,and we agreed that lie is, as you say, different from other boys's, in fact, quite exceptional. I noticed it. the moment 1 laid eyes on him 
and so did the president.Such a manly fellow, so clean, and yet so shrewd, loo! It is easy to seo that nothing worthwhile Is going to escape--------And 1 am happy to say that he has instinctively chosen the right
group as associates—all fine up­standing young men of the right sortYou did wisely in putting in the heavier underwear, and be sure that we will see that he puts it on at the first sign of frost; though as to his catching cold 
you need have no fear, for thecleau, dry climate of ------------ isone of its outstanding features.The professors, you will be grati­fied to know, were delighted' to
learn that --------— is to be withus for one term at least, and have gone out of their way to assure me that they will do all in their 
power to bring out the hidden qualities of which you, if not his father, are so well aware.It affords me deep satisfaction towrite you thus regarding------------.(He and a group of laughing com­panions are this minute crossingthe campus with Professor ---------.the noted economist.) He. un­doubtedly has a future.We will keep a sharp eye on his welfare without in any way hin­dering his growth—as you your self have done, I’m sure, Believe me, madame,Your respectful friend,
Dean of Freshmen, P. S. The slight cough which you mentioned has entirely disap­peared and he is eating splendid­
ly.
Nathan Miller 
Explains Rise 
Of44 Auturchy ”
Failure Of Major Forms 
Of Govt. Seen Since 
World War
FROM ^H4E FE Î4eE
(Continued From Page Two) too far one way, the holocaust and 
the dogs of war are loose again.Germany, vexed, desperate and insulted by the imposition of the 
‘‘war guilt” on her shoulders turns to embrace a {mad, adventurous, militaristic party led by a new “man on horseback.” Adolf Hitler. 
Nor can one be surprised at this. She has to carry an enormous bur­den of war debt which will have to 
be paid by generations who had nothing to do with the war and she is not allowed, i moreover, to pay her debts in goods (the only way it 
can be done), because the United States and other creditors refuse to take her goods. Therefore, what she has paid already has been by 
borrowing: she has since the war paid over three billion dollars by borrowing four billions chiefly from the very countries she is de­stined to pay. As the very core of Europe, we find Germany therefore sitting on a powder-keg with a rev­olution toward the “right” (con­
servative, militaristic and perhaps monarchistic) or one toward the “left” (communistic) hardly .to be avoided.
France, more bellicose and na­tionalistic than ever sits as thé supreme protector of the crazy pat­tern of post-Europe as constructed by the treaty of Versailles, an un­stable equilibrium if there ever was one. Not having felt the pinch of the world-wide depression until recently, her haughty position has not been threatened. But within her 
boundaries that terrible scourage the “balance of power” teeterS over of capitalism, unemployment is beginning to rear its head, and French domination of the continent due largely to her swollen gold-re- 
sources is being threatened.England lias plunged into the tariff experiment under the aegis 
of a so called “national” govern­ment composed- of the representa­tives of all the different parties which is now however cracking visibly, what with daily riots of the “dole-ers” on the streets of London.Italy is restless under the iron heel of the black dictatorship of Il Duce. Its economic position is none to brilliant and the adventur­ous thirst for the glory of the Fascists can hardly be kept in check.
To the East rises the giant col­ossus of Soviet Russia straining in the midst of heroic efforts to build up a vast new economic system. But even Russia is hard-hit by the 
worlcl-wide depression in its efforts to build the most gigantic econom­
ic machine of the world. Within the country there is widespread distress in so far, at least, as the basic necessities of life are con- coucerned. The political squabbles within the ranks of the ruling par­ty rear up, and Stalin periodically 
cashiers or demotes those opposed to his ideas. Still as a hope and as % promise, Russia (perhaps unwill­ingly) to day stands as a revolu­tionary impetus to the rest of Eu­rope. One thing is certain—par­
liamentary and democratic govern­ment has failed in Europe since the war.What of all this shall the Amer­ican voter retain to guide him in casting his ballot this NovembeV? 
How to extricate one’s own views from this welter of hectic politics an’d absurd economics which has engulfed Europe? It is, of course, difficult to render these European issues clear and find their bearings upon our situation without consid­erable study and discussion. It is certainly a pity that our peanut politicians, and sensational, small­
time newspapers are allowed to keep us smug in our innocence an'd provincialism.
Teacher Writes 
Book On Home
Miss Mabel Thrilling, professor 
of Home Economics Education, in 
Margaret Morrison College, is the 
author of the book, “The Girl and Her Home.” This book is pub­lished under the Riverside Home Economics Series and was written 
in collaboration with Miss Flor­ence W. Nicholas, a prominent au­thority in that field.
The book is divided into seven units, each of which takes up some phase of home life, such as home management; household finances, care of children, health, and the use of leisure time. There are al­so a number of tables, photographs and plans included in the book.
At the present time, the book is now being used as a text book in the Teacher Training course. It is intended for use in senior high schools.
Aged Tool Mart Dies 
In Machine Shop Oct. 17
Charles McTaggart, in charge of tool distribution in the machine shop, collapsed at his desk last Monday evening, October 17., and died a short time later. Mr. McTaggart, who op as seventy years old, resided at 711 Trenton Avenue, Wilkinsburg and has 
been in charge of the distribu­tion of tools for the past eight years. The coroner’s verdict was that dei was due to a heart at-
“Three types of men go to col­
lege; those who are willing to be 
educated, those : who want to be 
educated, and those who are de­
termined to be educated.,” said 
Newton D. Baker in a recent ar­
ticle written for the Princetonian.
In accord with an announce­ment last year that the university would accept produce from Illinois farmers as tuition and that they would pay 10 per cent above the market price, a student at Illinois Wesleyan University paid his tui­tion with 40 sacks of potatoes.
Carnegie Graduates 
Represented In Exhibit
Recent graduates of the Depart­ment of Painting and Decorating at Carnegie are to be prominently 
represented in an exhibition of student work in Graphic Arts which , the American Federation of Arts in Washington is planning to send to various cities throughout the country. This exhibit, which is being selected from four or five 
of the more important art schools, includes block prints and litho­graphs. Robert B. Green '31 and Sterling B. Smeltzer ’31 are show­ing block prints made while they were seniors. Orval Kipp ’32, John Scherrer ’32, Elizabeth A. Phillips ’32, and Lillian R. Loev- ner ’32 are to be represented by a variety of their recent efforts.
ELECTIONS AND HOW—
Election day, campaign speeches, polls of all kinds, political arguments, debts, tariffs and what not all look sick when they start campaigning in 
the Art School. Last Tuesday’s freshman elec­tion evoked what bids fair to go down in the annuals of Carnegie as the most sensational bit of campaigning in the history of the institution.
Things started very slowly with only a few scattered votes coming in during the first hour and to a casual observer the whole thing looked like just another election.
Then like a thunderbolt from on high, an ava­lanche, the P. & D. Department descended into the main foyer to the strains of martial music.After making the rounds of the hall things began in earn­est. Forming a semi - circle around the niche directly behind the polls a well- planned pro­gram of speeches, hula hulas, songs and cheers was executed in true Bohemian style.
This well mapped campaign so swayed the at­tendant populi that the painters’ candidate came from behind witli a rush and knotted the count in the final seconds of the fray, necessitating a repetition of the whole affair again today.
The entire demonstration was so vociferous that an innocent bystander might well have thought it was a demonstration for Bocardi in­stead of Bernardi.* * " * * *
HERE AND THERE—Last- Friday the first broadside was fired in what should prove a most interesting sorority rushing season. The Beta Pis, Alpha Kapps, Tri- Gamms, and Beta Tau Lambdas each had a cor-, uer. The tea was a big success and things are now officially “on.”Oh, yes! there’s that little freshman Drama sty dent that kicked a hole through one of the cellar windows in Birch Hall on her way home from the football dance Saturday.
Those optimistic boys that are wearing the 1940 numerals around decided to start practicing on cutting out fives since that C-4 quiz on Friday.The Beta boys received a mysterious phone call the other day and now have a. five dollar check for the mysterious person that called. See the Military Ball issue of Puppet for details.Speaking of the Puppet brings to mind Editor Lazarus and his spur of the moment trip to South Bend with Karges and two others. The four of them were playing bridge at the D. U. Lodge Friday night when the inspiration dawned. They set out in Bill’s coupe (without the aid of! rumble seat) and never slept a wink till they returned Siinday.Seen at the Wm Penn’s new, gorgeously deco­rated “Chatterbox” on the opening melee last Wednesday:Joseph Urban, the designer, Mr. Epply, “Skin” Young, the swellish tenor, and many Pittsburgh’s notables including Debutante Childs, boy oh boy, Johnny Hamp’s rhythm boys . . . From thé cam­
pus, Sarah Davis, Peggy Niedringhause, Sarabel Browarsky, Mary Davis, Bill Lazarus and several others. And was it packed? Some place.Prof. Leeds predicts that there is a possibility of some of this year’s graduating class getting jobs.The Tau Delta Phi boys have changed their place of-residence to Woodmont street this year. Getting exclusive, we’d say.* * * * *
THAT DANCE AGAIN—Five young ladies who weekly attend the foot­ball dances, pardon me, who attend the football dances weekly, have just formed a new club. Although a name has not been selected as yet they are at present known as the forgot­ten women. Max Piekarski, Olive Roberts, Gloria Kloos, Sally Davis, and Becky Linn are the present members. They have devised an en­tirely different method of selecting their presi­dent. They have a revolving system, with the most forgotten woman being awarded the laurels each week.
Thi3 week’s football dance saw the regular parade of campus notables which always attends these functions on hand once again. Johnny Ladd and Betty Graham, Nancy Henderson and Jimmy Fergus, Georgetta Taylor and Dick Campfield were on hand once more. Jimmy Leonard certainly was enjoying his work in the check room, yessir every minute of it. Next week Billy Weixel comes back and so do the football men than can still walk. Look for the swell new red, white and blue posters advertising the event. Something smart and snappy, and how !
HOME FANS—
Only a few students -were brave enough Ho thumb tlieir nose at old man depression and make' the semi-annual jaunt to South Bend. Those who stayed behind were well cared for, however, with the grid graph and radio descriptions coming from two local stations. The poor mortals that chose to tune in one of the local studio tele­graphic relays- with sound effects, soon found that practically every other play the band played the Notre Dame victory march.Those that chose the grid graph were more fortunate, although they were forced to listen to thé loud and lusty cheers of Rufus Hartig spur­ring the Irish on to their final touch­down. We wonder why? Well; two dol­lars isn’t to be sneezed at these days.The fair Mortar Boardswere on hand once again vending a large array of candy, ice cream, doughnuts, and semi-hard cider. With the crowd not quite up to expecta­tions, the girls soon started to eat up all the profits. They were only making slight headway until Lady Gloria arrived on the scene, but then business picked up witli a bang.A couple of the boys put in a bid for the re­mainder of the cider but couldn’t be found when the time came to cart it away. Must have been afraid it would turn to vinegar instead.
yFrshm yhPAvmAEAem
A dog owned by Ray Barger 
’32, which was used as a 
model in sculpturing classes 
last year, would stand mo­
tionless until told 
to stop posing.
Magasine Holds Cover 
Contest For Printers
The American Printer, a month­
ly magazine, is conducting 
a prize cover contest which is open 
to students of printing in all 
schools of collegiate rank. 
The purpose of the contest is to 
secure the design and composition 
of covers for the use of the print­
ing periodical during certain 
months of the year 1933.
Among the judges are Prof. Ho­
mer E. Sterling of the Department 
of Printing and Mr. Harry T. 
Gage, vice president of the Mer- 
genthaler Linotype Company. Mr. 
Gage was the first head of the De­
partment of Printing at Carnegie.
Avenue Cinema Shores 
Operetta Second Week
The Avenue Cinema will con­
tinue to show the popular film .op­
eretta “Two Hearts in Waltt 
Time” for a second week.
The success of the film in both 
New York and Pittsbrugh is attri­
buted to its musical form in a 
time of dialogue pictures, and to 
its competent cast of German and 
Austrian stage celebrities.
An endowment of 8200,000 
is required to pay the annual 
water bill at Carnegie.
Military Honorary 
To Hold Dinner
Among the speakers who will 
address members of Company G, 
Regiment G of the National Society 
of Scabbard and Blade at a dinner 
meeting at Webster Hall next 
Thursday are Major Muller of Pitts­
burgh and Dr. Baker, president of 
Carnegie.
Next Thursday will be National 
Scabbard and Blade Day. It also 
commemorates the birth of former 
President Theodore Roosevelt who 
possessed the qualities and ideals 
this society fosters..
The National Society of Scabbard 
and Blade was founded 26 years 
ago at the Univei'sity of Wiscon­
sin by five cadet officers. It now 
has 7S chapters in 46 states and a 
membership of approximately 18,- 
000.
The purpose of the society is to 
defend American traditions and 
ideals, promote the interests of 
ROTC training, preserve and de­
velop the essential qualities of good 
and efiicient officers, and to spread 
intelligent information concerning 
the military requirements of the United States.Active membership in Scabbard and Blade is limited to outstanding cadet officers in the ROTC units.
They are selected by members of the chapter on their proficiency in 
military science, aca'damic sub­jects, character, and other attri­butes. Officers of the regular army, national guard, and organ­
ized reserves may be elected to as­sociate membership. Honorary membei’sliip is conferred on civil­ians.
owmbhmvd i
809 Liberty Avenue Eveninps -10c 
"Art Knows No Class Nor Creed”
Held over for a Second Week
KELn lcDduI t" 
YDOuf EtgcS
(ZWEI HERZEN IM % TAKT) 
now with super-imposed English titles
FULTONTHE PERFECT THEATER 
________________with THE PERFECT SOUND
The All-American Football Roar and Scream! 
A BOISTEROUS, RIB-TICKLING RIOT OF
BELLY LAUGHSMGKEDrMX.'
Funnier — Faster — And More Cock-eyed Than “The Cock-eyed World”
With VICTOR McLAGLEN
And G-ang of Riotous Fun Makers
He Bought a College So His Football Team 
Would Have a Place to Sleep
The blackjack and hijack boys muscle in on college football—the gang from the gas house and the gals from the night clubs—make this the hot spot of sexology.
Rivals For 
Office Lead 
Active Lives
Presidential Candidates 
Active In Public 
Affairs
(Continued From Page Two) 
he is at heart militaristic and lias evaded direct question as to his stand on arms reduction for this country.
Norman Thomas.
Norman Thomas was born No­vember 20, 18S4 at Marion, Ohio. After working at many jobs, he entered Bucknell University, and upon completion of his high school course, worked his way through. The following year he left Bucknell to enter Princeton University where he took courses under Wood row Wilson. He displayed great brilliance of mind throughout and manifested extraordinary qualities as a public speaker. Upon gradu­ation, he engaged in social work where he gained an understanding of the intricate problems of ail classes of people.
He entered Union Theological Seminary, graduating in 190S, hav­ing supplemented his education 
with an exhaustive study of the so­cial sciences.
He founded and edited a political magazine. In 1918 he joined the Socialist party. He has since served on innumerable committees lor-strike relief and other causes. His present chief occupation is Executive Director of the League for Industrial Democracy which ca­pacity has brought him into many contacts with young people of col­lege age and with the world of labor.
His theoretical learning has been 
seasoned in the labor struggle, he having taken part in definite union labor activity, and having come to the rescue of suffering strikers at various times. He was a consci­entious abjector to the World War and is now internationally recog­nized as an outstanding exponent of American pacifism.
Critics of Mr. Thomas aim their criticisms, as a rule; at his social views rather than his personal ability. He has been a target for* attacks by communists, and also by a certain group within his own party who contend that he talks too superficially from the Socialist point of view, thereby winning ad­
herents who do not understand so­cialism. They also believe that he is too intellectual to win masses of American labor.
Almost 45 per cent of the 878 freshmen who answered a ques­tionnaire at Hunter College are under the normal college age. Of these five are only 14 years old and eighty-four are 15.—,tow York Times.
Do Something
By FRANK B. CRAIG
Some one wrote: “Those mei
who try to do something and fai! 
are infinitely better than those 
who try to do nothing and beauti­
fully succeed.”
Yet this world of ours contains 
countless millions who live and 
die and are quickly forgotten be­
cause they did not do something. 
Yet there always is something that 
every man can do.
It may be a little thing, yet 
done well, it rears a headstone, at 
least. Or it may be an achieve­
ment that will in itself be a mon 
ument. Or it may be a blessing t- mankind that will enshrine a nam in its memory for generations.But men should do something, small or great, to justify their ex­istence, for no man has a moral right to live unless he honestly tries to depart this life leaviu the world a little better off for hi having lived. The man who diet unmourned, unmentioned, and un sung had better not have lived.Life is opportunity, God-given, and to be accounted for to Him, and to return to him one talent without interest is to cheat Him of his dues.Do something! Even if it urns' be little, do sometliing-
Devotees Of Science 
And Arts Will Meet
Continued From Pago J
partment of Fine Arts, Carnegi Institute (not at school), begins, i March. Membership in the Acad­
emy entitles the member to attend any of these meetings.The Astronomical Section is con­
ducting variable star work at tbv Allegheny Observatory under t 
supervision of Dr. F. C. Jord This work is followed by practical laboratory, work on the construction 
of reflectors.The Cinema Section holds ir 
structive monthly meetings in tl Educational Room of Carnegie In stitute. At these meetings ques­tions of amateur motion picture photography are discussed.An annual fee of $5.00 or a life fee of $100.00 entitles the member and a friend to attend ail the Acad­emy functions; and membership 
is perpetual unless otherwise des­ignated in writing by the Academy Council.
In answer to a questlo sent out to Princeton fxrar’ the class of 1922, fifty-?’ stated that in their r average girl can Strug) life pretty nicely with lent of a high schoc and that they would; n< daughters to college that he planned to do had taught for a while at educational college.—New Evening Sun.
The Fall and Winter Showing of
STETSON D TÄIL0RS
—AT—
SKSBO INN
OTcIw D"( Yc(C
Nov. )kH
Exclusively Modeled .....
Beautifully Tailored...................
Suits, Overcoats and Tuxedos 
priced as low as...............$22.50
“Nationally“Justly
Known”Famous
W Display by BILL CHARLOW
Tailors To College Men From Coast To Coast
At a close rancje 
or for distance,
SPORTOCULAR
qives you super­
natural siqhf The
SPORTOCULARis light in weight, 
easily adjusted and 
extremely useful to 
the sport enthusiast
SPORTOCULAR
makes an ideal 
Christmas gift
