.CAMPUS WEEK EDITION,
CAMPUS WEEK 
TAGS 50c
pf«
CAMPUS WEEK 
TAGS 
ON SALE SOON
VOL. XV NO. 26CARNEGIE INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY, PITTSBURGH, PENNSYLVANIA.APRIL 27, 1921
CAMPUS WEEK AT TECH FORM
Objectto Keep Former Students 
Interested in School Plenty; 
of Entertainment
TO BE BIG REUNION
Campus Week, for the second time 
In the history of Carnegie Tech, . is 
again the main topic of conversation 
among students and alumni. It will 
he held May 12, 13 and 14. Last year 
Campus Week was suggested by some 
Seniors as an Alumni’s homecoming 
time. Many alumni visit the Insti­
tute each year and so many in the 
spring time that it seemed reasonable 
that a special time be set apart when 
all alumni might return and find old 
friends to celebrate their return.
There is nothing quite so sad as 
to return to your Alma Mater a few 
years after graduation and find every­
thing changed and all the old familiar 
faces gone. But with'Campus Week 
no alumnus need be afraid of this for 
Campus Week is no longer an experi­
ment. The event last year showed 
that the alumni were enthusiastic 
over the ilea and were only too eager 
to return. Already Mr. Tilbrook has 
received inquiries ‘concerning arrange­
ments arid cards from others sayiny 
they would be here. If you have not 
planned to come b3r now you had bet­
ter change your mind.
During the past year or so the 
alumni and friends of the college have 
heen asked to give at various times to 
different causes at Tech. This time we 
ask you for nothing but to join in a 
glorious celebration and to come and 
see what we have done with what you 
gave. This is one way the under­
graduates can show their appreciation 
for what you have made Carnegie 
Tech. The students and administra­
tion invite you to come and see what 
you have and can make possible by 
your support.
The student body is planning a mon­
strous welcome to you that will start 
Friday morning with the screaming 
Campus Week Vodville Show to be 
held at the Music Hall, in the Car­
negie Library, which is the only 
place large enough to hold the crowd 
that is expected. Following this there 
will be a parade through town in 
autos and if you have a machine 
make plans to join us and carry a few 
(Continued on Page Three.)
ATHLETIC EVENTS ALL THREE DAYS
Baseball, Tennis and Track— 
Bucknell, W. & J., Grove City 
and Bethany Here
GIRLS’ TENNIS TOURNAMENT
The athletic program for Campus 
Week is an attractive one and will 
allow every team now In training to 
show the graduates and their friends 
that they are winning aggregations. 
The program is so arranged that the 
events will not conflict, thus giving 
each team a clear field to exhibit be­
fore a large crowd that wrill be able to 
root them on in the hardest struggle 
they may have for victory.
Baseball With Grove City.
Thursday. May 12, the first day of 
Campus, Tech meets Grove City Col-, 
lege in baseball. Grove City claims to 
have a better team than last year and 
we know that we have. Last year the 
two teams battled until dark and 
there was no score. Tech had the 
edge on them And had the hard luck 
to have eight men caught at home 
plate. They will be here to make 
up for the crushing defeat that our 
football team handed them last sea­
son. However the varsity is deter­
mined not to break the record of no 
defeats on the home field all last 
season and none so far this year. All 
things point to a fast, exciting game 
and maybe another homer by Liftle 
Jo, the man who beat them here last 
year.
Girls’ Tennis Tournament.
The tennis tournament for the girls 
is an innovation this year and a fine 
cup has been put up to be presented 
to the winner of the event. Many of 
the girls are out practicing now and 
we may look for some very good 
matches. The tournament is being 
handled by the Department of Physi­
cal Education of the Margaret Mor­
rison School and their plans are well 
along towards completion. The final 
matches for the cup will be played on 
the first day of Campus Week from 
1-3 p. m. on the courts near the Y 
hut.
Seniors Play Faculty in Baseball.
The annual Senior vs. Faculty game 
of baseball is to played off at 10:45
a. m., Friday, the second day of the 
celebrations. As always it will be the 
(Continued on Pagp Two.)
TAGS TO FINANCE CAMPUS WEEK
Campus Week Tags will go oil sale 
next week. Every Tech student should 
have one if Campus Week is to be the 
big time we are all looking forward 
to. Tags will be sold at 50 cents, the 
proceeds to go to defraying the ex­
penses of three days of the best times 
you ever enjoyed. The committee 
wants every one to have *a good time 
at the smallest possible cost and the 
sale of these tags makes this pos­
sible.
Every one who wears a tag will be 
admitted to the Campus Week Vod­
ville Show free, also the Tech Music 
Fest and the Mardi Gras. In addition 
to this the tags will entitle the wearer 
to 50 cents credit on admission to the 
Music Fest Dance, the Mardi Gras 
Dance and 25 cents credit on the ad­
mission to the Great Tech Circus. 
Get your tag—help Campus Week— 
help yourself.
AUTO PARADE DOWNTOWN MAY 12
A new feature has been added to 
the Campus Week festivities that 
should afford a. great, deal of fun for 
everybody. It H to be a regular cos­
tume p irade with automobiles. The 
plan is for the parade to form imme­
diately after tho Campus Week Vod­
ville Sl ow in the Music Hall on 
Thursday and Hollow a line of march 
to townl and through East Liberty. 
The project will be an excellent ad­
vertisement for Tech and for Campus 
Week arid every one is invited to be 
in it.
Each of the four schools will be 
asked to decorate a machine as a float 
and each class5 will be asked to do 
likewise. If there is some one in your 
class who is willing to decorate his 
machine start plans at once; or if 
there does not seem to be any one 
get in touch with Mr. Tilbrook, the 
alumni secretary, or Henry Aspin- 
t Continued on Page Four)
FEATURE CONCESSIONS SOLD
Recently some very interesting 
features of Campus Week have leak­
ed out, which a cub reporter picked 
up and is going to spill to the Tech 
public. This dope regards the con­
cessions which are under the direc­
tion of Addision Mankel. Mankel, it 
Is believed, was planning a surprise 
in this line as it is understood that 
he has lined up about 10 different 
groups to handle feature concessions 
to be variously distributed over the 
Campus during the three days of 
celebration. The booths, well decor­
ated in the best carnival style, will 
sell all sorts of novel devices for 
noise making, in addition to the regu­
lar line of light eatables. Several 
well-known firms in town have be­
come interested, and have offered to 
back the enterprise by donating dec- 
(Continued on Page Three.)
Tentative Program of Campus Week
THURSDAY 
10:30—Campus Week Vodvil Show. 
11:30—Parade thru town in machines. 
12:30—Baseball—Grove City-Tech.
1 to 3—Tennis matches.
3:00—Qualification Day Exercises. 
4:15—Tap Day Exercises.
8 to 10—Tech Music Fest.
7:00—Alumni Banquet.
10:00—Dance.
FRIDAY
10:30—Interfraternity Sweepstakes. 
1:30—Tennis—¡Bethany-Tech.
1:30—Baseball—Bucknell-Tech. 
7:00—M. M. C. D. May Dances. 
S:00—Mardi Gras.
10:00—Dancing.
SATURDAY 
10:00—R. O. T. C. Drill.
10:00—Baseball—Varsity-Alumnl. 
1:30—Tennis—W. & J.-Tecli.
3:30—Track meet—West Va.-Tech. 
4:00—M. M. C. D. Reception.
8:00—Circus and Side Shows.
VAUDEVILLE SHOW HEADSPROGRAM
Music Hall, Thurs. 10:30 A, M. 
Many Novel Stunts Planned 
For Program
BIG PARADE FROM CAMPUS
TECH'S BIGGEST MUSICAL FEST, ß|(j SWEEPSTAKE RACES 
AN outdoor concert EXTRAORDINARY EVENT
Drama Outdoor Theater Used — 
Every Musical Club There
SWEEPSTAKES 1920
SENIOR FAREWELL PARTY
The class which is about to leave 
Dear Old Tech by graduation is now 
eagerly anticipating the Senior Ball 
and plans which will make its success 
a thing beyond all doubt have just 
been completed.
At a recent meeting of the com­
mittee it was definitely decided that 
the most enjoyable time could be had 
at an informal affair. Accordingly the 
“Ball” will be very informal and the 
date set is the evening of May 31st, 
a most satisfactory time for it indeed. 
It was then suggested that a name 
he -chosen for the ball, some name 
¦which would well fit one of the very 
last social events of a man’s college 
life. Many names were submitted and 
after thoughtful consideration this 
name. "The Seniors’ Farewell Ball,’' 
was adopted. The next thing dis­
cussed was that which (after beauti­
ful woman, of course) is the best part 
of any ball—beautiful music. We 
dassn’t tell yet what the committee 
decided on this point. Only this: It
is going to be the most beautiful con­
course of sweet sounds that even 
thrilled the hearts of a dancing 
couple! The committee isn't quitting 
with just that either. The program 
they have is positively unique. And 
you get what “unique” means when 
we say it at Tech.
Oh for that night when the sweet 
moon is shining, and the soft winds 
of Maytime blow on into June!
M. M. D. RECEPTION
At 4 o’clock, May 14, every woman 
on the Tech Campus will direct her 
steps to the Faculty Parlors of the 
Margaret Morrison building, where 
there will be an informal reception. 
The committee is planning an enjoy­
able program and every effort is be­
ing made to welcome those who have 
begun their course in the school, of 
life and those who are yet preparing 
for it.
Everybody who has a sincere love 
for Tech and what it stands for will 
be at this reception. Friends you had 
as Freshmen, Sophomores, Juniors and 
Seniors who either forgot or neglect­
ed to answer your last letter will be 
there looking for you. Will you dis­
appoint them?
SENIOR COMMERCIALS’ PARTY
For a greater Campus Weék—the 
Campus Courier.
“Dave” Evans, “CB” Schmidt and 
Homer Sinclair were hosts to the 
Senior Commercials at the Wood- 
lawn Club last Thursday night. The 
principal speaker of the evening was 
President Call of the Farmers Sav­
ings Bank. He talked in a very in­
teresting manner on the human side 
of banking.
The other guests were Director 
Mott. Professor Work, Professor 
O’Hara, Dr. Kidd, Mr. Lovelace, Mr. 
Craig, Mr. Cowin, "Dutch” Emerick at 
the piano and “Bill” Reilly on his 
feet.
Arrangements are being made by 
the Campus Week committee to bring 
together on Thursday night the big­
gest assembly of .musicians that Tech 
people have ever had the pleasure of 
hearing. Over 200 of Tech's most gift­
ed melody makers have agreed to ap­
pear in the outdoor theater back of 
Design Schooi and guarantee that they 
will tame to complete submission any 
savage beast that exists in the present 
age. Don’t laugh! This is serious. 
Listen—Eve Hughes will be there 
with the gang that caused Mr. Mag- 
gio’s lion to turn white with worry, 
and the Girl Stringer and Glee Club 
have some blues that are bluer than 
the Blue Law advocates ever thought 
of being. Then, also, Bill Reilly, the 
hoy entertainer, is going to help the 
Musical Clubs give the rest of the 
Home Concert, and, oh yes, the hand 
is learning a new piece that has the 
other two backed off the boards and 
are going to help keep every one in 
ecstacles of delight. Finally several 
of the most novel novelties you ever 
saw are going to be introduced for 
the first time west of Paris. ,
All of this is absolutely free to those 
who have tags and will .last from 8 
o’clock until 10 p. m. when there will 
be a dance until 1 a. m., Friday.
Get tuned up for Thursday, the' 
twelfth of May, because its going to 
be some party!
Silver Trophies Prizes- 
Uniquely Designed
-Cars
QUALIFICATION DAY EXERCISES
Traditions are the mainstays of 
all colleges and are being formed 
every day. The oldest tradition at 
Tech is the one concerning Qualifica­
tion Day. At this annual event, with 
the welding of a new link to the tradi­
tional chain and the stamping of 
numerals on the link of the leaving 
class, the Plebes cast off the bonds 
and cares of regulations and don the 
garb of free men and a new group of 
graduates go out into the world to 
gain recognition.
The morning of May 11 will find the 
foyer of Design School draped in black 
and the casket lying in state, slightly 
elevated above the floor. The casket 
will remain at rest until it is carried 
with great solemnity by honorable 
pallbearers to Tech field.
The sad, mourning Freshmen will 
have the opportunity of casting their 
Plebe hats and ties into the coffin 
before it is placed on the highest alti­
tude of the funeral pyre. While the 
cremation of the ghastly remains is 
in progress the new link giving the 
Freshman life membership in Car­
negie Clan of everlastiig good fellow­
ship will be welded on to the ever- 
lengthening chain. The numerals of 
the class of ’21 will be stamped on 
their link. With the closing of the 
ceremonies the class of ’24 will be­
come real "Techites” forever.
The co-operation of the Freshmen 
Is asked that the affair may be im­
pressive and have the proper solemn 
aspect. To the Plebes these services 
should be most impressive because it 
means that they are from then mem­
bers of Carnegie Tech’s greatest \ 
fraternity of good fellowship. It is 
expected that every Freshman should 
be taking part.
The committee on selection and en­
trance reports that there are about
15 of the best students of race emu­
lation who have signified their dis­
pleasure of driving the cars in the 
annual Inter EaaJernUy. Sweepstake 
Races. Among these are some of the 
most infamous agitators of the human 
race. Modesty will hide the identity 
of the victims from public humiliation 
until May 14. Persistent rumors seem 
to indicate that thero will be some of 
tho unknown long-distance runnors 
who acquired fame during the retreat 
of General Mobisky’s second army 
participating.
Machines of special design aro un­
der construction. Most of the chiof 
designers have had previous experi­
ence in mechanical destruction of 
racing vehicles and are plotting to 
create safe locomotion. New Ideas 
are being developed which will revo­
lutionize the types of pushmoliiles to 
be seen on the "Tech’’ speed route 
in tho future. Precautions aro to be 
taken to avert the calainltlos which 
last year caused the coliapse of tho 
hopes of some of the most disgusted 
entrants. This can only bo dono by 
careful selection of coherent materials.
To the winners, if they survive, will 
be awarded silver trophlos. One to the 
(Continued on Page Two.)
TAP DAY-HONOR TO 
WHOM HONOR IS DUE
MARDI GRAS CARNIVAL 
AND MASQUERADE
Everyone to be in Costume- 
Girls In Charge
I-Iavo you gotten your costume for 
the Mardi Gras yet? If you haven’t 
you’d better hurry or you’ll ho out of 
luck for thero aro wonderful prizes for 
tho best costumes and you’ro missing 
a chance to got ono-^maybo. Start 
now if,you didn’t know about it. Mardi 
Gras, tho grand festival and masquor 
ado, Is going to bo held on Friday 
night, May 13, on that part of the 
Campus In front of the Arts Building 
and will be tho biggost thing in 
Campus Week. Credit for originating 
this Idoa Is duo to Magglo Murph, 
Every girl is behind It and groat 
things are promised for a largo ovon- 
ing. Every, one in tho school who Inis 
heard of the plans Is wildly enthusias­
tic over the idoa, so it should bo a 
wild and gloi'lous party.
Tho campus is going to bo trans­
formed into a gay whlto way with 
hundreds of olootrlc lights and flaring 
torch lights, Beautiful decorations aro 
going to so concoal tho ovory-duy cam­
pus sights that the celebrants will 
think they are In a fairy land, far 
away from school life. There aro go­
ing to be tons of. confetti and mil­
lions of streamers, vorltablo clouds or 
balloons, fancy taps and hats, which 
with the costumos and, decorations 
will be a complete disgulso for our 
(Continued on Page Two.)
M. M. D. MAY DAY DANCES
Amidst the frivolities of Campus 
Week comes one event which has 
something of dignity connected with 
it. This is the Tap Day exercises.
There are in1 every college certain 
men and women who stand out head 
and shoulders above their fellows. 
Some are thus marked because of 
their scholastic attainments, others 
because they have, in addition to their 
work in the class room, participated 
in activities in such a way as to bring 
credit upon their Alma Mater or 
helped make her a better college.
The first group receives recognition 
for their ability by election to honor­
ary scholastic fraternities.
In Carnegie Tech there are three 
fraternities who elect their members 
from those who have stood highest 
scholastically in their classes. Tau 
Beta Pi, a national honorary fratern­
ity, which elects its members on a 
scholastic basis; Tau Sigma Delta, a 
national honorary fraternity whose 
members are men or women chosen 
for particular brilliancy in the field.- 
of architecture, painting, decoration 
and sculpture, and Alpha Tau, a na­
tional honorary fraternity formed at 
Tech, which covers the field of in­
dustrial management as given in the 
courses of the Industries Division. 
Besides these there is the Scural 
fraternity, which selects its members 
from the school of architecture.
The other groups 'of students who 
because of the distinction gained by 
having done something well for Tech, 
either in athletics, class activities, lit­
erary pursuits such as work on col­
lege perlodiialn or the many other 
fields of endeavor opened by college 
activities, receive recognition by elec­
tion to the class honor societies. There 
(Continue 1 on Page Two.)
J
Act I—Pull up blind. Moosic play. 
Pavlowa, Senior, she do solo dance 
-ryfalries follow Pav—she no care— 
Moosic stop—Pull down blind.
Act II—Pull up blind some more. 
Queen, she come in—she bootiful— 
she hold up head—more fairies, they 
come—all time have barefeet on. 
They dance. Blind all gone.
Act III—Rainbow come out, gambol 
on green. Everybody, he hold breath. 
Blind stay up. All time cloud have 
silver lining. Moosic.
May Day is here again and it is go­
ing to be one of the most artistic 
events of Campus Week. But watch! 
This is to be something new—original 
costumes and barefoot dancing. There 
will be several solo dances, which will 
be quite unique, and a feature dance, 
in which the rainbow will be well 
represented. This gala event will be 
held on Flag Staff Hill at 7 o’clock 
Friday evening of Campus Week. The 
executive committee is composed of 
Mary Zarobsky, Vivian Schmucker 
and Helen Reed, Betty Finkelhor is 
chairman of the program committee; 
Louise Irvin, of the costume commit­
tee, and Margaret Bingaman of the 
property committee. Much credit is 
also due to Miss Spurrier and Mias 
Bowman for their work in making this 
a success. May Day is sure to bo 
both impressive and exceptionally in­
teresting.
Honey solidified; beauty Incarnate; 
Sweetness personified, como see us— 
Dam It!
Perhaps the rarest and most ex­
traordinary collection of human per­
formers and entertainers in existence 
will be the center of attraction at the 
Campus Week Vodville Show. This 
will bo the opening event for Cam­
pus V.reelc and will be presented in 
the Music Hall of the Institute on 
Thursday, May 12, at 10:30 p. m. The 
greatest turnout of Tech enthusiasts 
will meet near the Union at 10 p. m. 
of that day and advance to the place 
of assemblage in order to hear and 
see the best stunts that students of 
this school have over produced. For 
these mystifying death-defying ex­
ecutioners of America’s super-vodvillo 
present tho following acts: The
Steamloss Steam Calliope, or Why is 
Izzy? Madame Sliesan, tho Indom­
itable Orientess from tho Oriental 
Lands, and Madamolsello FILT, the 
renowned Bareback Toe Dancer. But 
hold tho "rains" further and prepare 
for the Augmented. Chorus of 
Doslno’s Galaxy of Lost Cuckoos, and 
tho famous exhibition of the trained 
elephants, which have • been obtained 
under, maximum difilcultles from the 
Sellz-Bromo ClVctiS.
A Campus Wook Tag is tho only re­
quirement for this colossal and 
stupendous production.
Wo thorefore expect evoryono in 
tho Carnogio Institute of Technology 
to boar with us while our humble en­
tertainers present the opening of Cam­
pus Wook for 1021.
BEG CIRCUS WILL END CAMPUS WEEK
Circus Sat. Evening Begins 
with Arts School Pageant 
Held on Athletic Field
COMMITTEE NEEDS STUNTi
Fraternities .should make a apodal 
effort to got their alumni back for 
Campus Wook. If your ohapfor has 
not planned a reunion at that time 
thero CA still time to malco nrrango 
nionts. Have each man in your chap­
ter write one or two letters, telling 
your alumni about May 12, 18 and* 14.
A grand climax will be reached 
Saturday night, May 14, of Campus 
Week when the Tech Circus will start 
at S:30 p. 111. with a pageant by the 
students of Design School. Tech Field 
will be the scene of the circus ,and it 
is doubtful if a more ideal place coul(J • 
be imagined. The arrangement 6f- i , I 
seats i$ such that every one can clear-l 
ly see even tho minutest detail of the 
whole performance. A survey of the 
material for a good circus! perform­
ance indicates that the entertainment 
will bo first class and that as far as 
variety is concerned there will bo 
nothing lacking. Various organiza­
tions about the campus will assume 
the brunt of the work in getting up 
and arranging for the stunts of tho 
circus. Any individual or group of 
individuals who think, they can put 
on a stunt aro urgently requosted to 
see Leet, Cassidy or Reppllor of tho 
Circus Committee and got working on 
the stunt. This item of co-operation 
with the committee is absolutely es­
sential. Every good stunt in tho <' t 
cue. Is .a boost .for Tocli and no ) 
who. Js capable of putting, on a stli. 
or of furnishing idoas for it should 
let this opportunity to help slip by.
As to the nature of tho stunts lit­
tle needs to bo said. Originality and 
clovel'hoss are the VOqulsltoa and it 
Is cerlaln that those two characteris­
tics lytVQ ever boon in the foreground 
In Tech activities. A brief montlou 
of tho kind of stunts wanted , how­
ever, may bo. of .assistance. .liifWling, 
tumbling, dare dovll acts, clowni an­
tics, animal act«' M’JM SV.i, t- »m.ur-¦ / 
Oliver?., wresllng, <«<iirclng, strong man, 
chariot race, Ju jltau, clown hand, 
moving picture . take-off, pantomime 
acts and in fact everything which will 
add color to tho circus will he gladly 
received by tho committee; Turn lit 
(Continued on Pago Two.)
\
CAMPUS CIRCUS 1920
Reports havo reached tho Campus 
that tho Harrisburg Clan havo 
rented a, collar for uso during Cam­
pus Weelc. We have heen trying to 
figure out what all those trucks load­
ed with barrels havo been doing in the 
neighborhood every nlgiit last weok.
THE CAMPUS COURIER 
CAMPUS WEEK DAILY
The Campus Courier, a daily publi­
cation for Campus Week, will make 
its * initial appearance Thursday 
morning, May 12, and it can be had 
at your breakfast table Friday and 
Saturday mornings. For a greater 
Campus Week, the Campus Courier 
was born and to this end it will owe 
its existence.
To furnish the news dally is the 
first purpose of the Campus Courier. 
News written in an Intimate manner 
that will make you want to keep the 
Courier as a souvenir, to send to your 
friends to let them know what Car­
negie Tech’s Campus Week is. The 
Courier will also inform you of what 
is happening day by day. It will carry 
a lineup of all the athletic gameB and 
tell you the participants of every 
event. As an added feature of the 
alumni and alumna who will be on 
the campus, a column of "Alumni Per­
sonals” will be run, If you don’t have 
tho chance to shako hands with all 
your old friends, meet them in the 
Campus Courier.
As a souvenir, buy the Campus 
Courier.
ALPHA TAU HOLDS INITIATION
Last Saturday night tho Alpha Tau 
Honorary Fraternity hold Its first In­
itiation for tho scholastic year of
1920-1021. Four Seniors and six 
Juniors were honored. Tho Sonlors 
are II. W. Loomis, It. B. Cafvert, F. 
W. Agnow and W. S. Hug. Tho 
Juniors aro C. F. Johnson, H. M. 
White, D. S. Harding, S. W. Kotho, P. 
J. Moore and W. C. Funk.
INTER-NIGHT SCHOOL DANCE
The sixth annual Inter-nlght school 
danco, given by the night schools of 
the Industries, Science, Design and 
Margaret Morrison Divisions, will bo 
held in the Langley Laboratory Fri­
day evening, May (j.
The committee in charge is: From 
Margaret Morrison, Miss Norma Har- 
baugli and Miss Catherine Sullivan; 
from Design, Mr. K. B. Weber and Mr, 
John Brolda; from Science. Mr. H. 
P. Greenwald and Mr. W. V. Dermitt, 
Jr., and from Industries, Mr. J. E. 
Miexner and Mr. R. S. Craig.
The patrons and patronesses are 
Dean and Mrs. Mott, Dean and Mrs. 
Morris, Dean and Mrs. Bossange, 
Dean Breed, Dean, and Mrs. Tarbell, 
Dean Scales, Miss Williams and Miss 
Anderson.
This dance is an annual affair and 
Is the one big social event in the 
night school year. Last year over 
300 couples attended, making it one 
of the largest dances in tho whole 
school. Admission Is by Invitation 
only, no charge being made. Invita­
tions may bo secured from tho above 
named committee as long as they 
last.
TEKNON CLUB
Last .Wednesday tho Teknon Club 
had charge of the prayer mooting at 
the Bhadysldo i’resbytorlan church. 
Miss Cox, Miss Hlbbs, Mr. Swindell«, 
Mr. Macalpine and Mr, Biddle gavo 
short talks on various aspects of tho 
work of the club. A collection was 
taken to send a delegate to Silver 
Lake this summer.

---------------------------------------------------

PAGE TWO
\ITHE TÄTtTANWEDNESDAY, APRIL 27, 1921
—Sfartatt..........-....-—
Published every woelc by undergraduate» of the Carnegie Institute' of 
Technology under the supervision the Student Activities Board,
Entered In the Postonics of Pittsburgh as second-cla»s matter. •
LAWRENCE PAQU1N ............................................................. Editor-In-Chief
Telephone, Schonley 11180.
MPUS WS EKTTG5E ............................................................... Business Manager
Telephone, Scheiiley 1)211
EDITORIAL 8TAFF
WILLIAM D. HALL ............................................................ Managing Editor
Telephone, Selienley 9009, ,
FRED fj. KNOWLES..............................................Assistant Managing Editor
STUART P. SMITH .............................................................. Athletic Editor
KENNETH ARNOLD 1V. II. STEOMQTJIST f..................................................i..Newn A»BlHtuntB
IIELI3N LHWIH ...................................................................... Couil Aimlaliint
BUSINESS STAFF
WILLIAM OBIONOUTt ................................................... Circulation Hnnnjfor
WILLIAM II. MILLS ..................................................... Advorgng Manager
The Editor-In-Chief la roBpoimlblo for tbo policy or tlilB paper; tho 
Managing Editor for tho malco up._________________________________
CAMPUS WEEK
. Preparations for this year’s Campus Week are going forward in 
i\J". shape, with every student on the campus actively interested in 
tfe biggest affair of the year. The success of the -celebration is as­
sured, and everyone 'whiits to be in on the job of putting it across. 
II; seems strange, in looking back through the files of the Tartan, to 
see that when the first Campus Week was held last year, there were 
so many who believed that the thing could not be done. A quotation 
from an editorial of a year ago will help you to see just how we felt 
about that success just before it had been proven a winner. “* * # 
the eonlmittee fears as to the extent of the student support. You, 
who snicker and put on a sarcastic grin when Campus Week is talked' 
ill jt,' are pure idiotic, foolish ‘bonchcadsV’
" There is no need to use this vein in urging co-operation, on the 
affair this year. There are no sarcastic grins to combat, nor no un­
belief in the possibility of a grand re-union for Tech'. We are all 
going, into it for all we are worth, for we have a record set’for us 
winch will be hard to beat. With,everyone hard1 at work to make it 
a real Tech event, however, Campus Week is certain to overshadow 
anything we have ever done. ‘Now is the time to put your shoulder 
to tho wheel and show that you are a regular Tech man. The more 
active you are in making this activity a success, the more you are 
doing for the school and for yourself.
STUDENT CALENDAR
gemiste’ Club Meeting.
Wednesday, April 27 
Thursday, April 28
..Science Club Room 
................. Union
Tiler’s Day .................................................
jior Alumni Meeting....................................
Friday, April 29
I Inter-Honorary Dance ...........................................................-................ Union
Tennis—Tech vs. Thiel..............................................................Tech Courts
Saturday, April 30
\A. A. E. Danco......................................................................................... Union
/Girls' Musical Clubs' Homo Concert and Dunce.........Twentieth Century ClubWednesday, May 4
Womon’s Club of C, I. T...............................................................................Friday, May 0 ,
Tennis—Tech vs. Grove City,........................................................Tech «Courts-
Tenuis' Danco ........................................................................... ............. Unloni
\ Saturday, May 7
Allegheny............................7;. . .Schonley Oval
Jnterschohmtlc ’Irafln'Moot ....................................'!V......... Schonley Oval
\ Wedi gadfly, May 11 1
G. I, T. Band Homo Concert.......... ...................r............................... UnionThurodny, Friday, Saturday, May 12, 13, 14 
CAMPUS' WEER
MARDI GRAS AND MASQUERADE
(Continued from Page 1 ) 
oanjpuij and for us.
And now, another word us to cos- 
(union. Everyone to he admitted to 
tho carnival must ho in costume, 
whether elaborate or simple, old or 
new, unique or common. Hero tho 
girls will shine and the men will have 
<i. luird time to keep up with them. 
Perhaps a few Ideas as to costumes 
would not he inappropriate here. Any­
thing will do or almost anything. Go 
as Romeo and llnd fitul your Juliet; go 
as a Turk and llnd your harem; go 
us a dashing Spaniard and you'll llnd 
your dancing girl; go as Pierrot and 
Pierrette Will bo waiting; BO as a. 
clown, and you’ll llnd some to laugh 
with you; go as Hiawatha, Minnehaha 
will be just around the corner; George 
Washington will llnd Martha waiting 
for him; Uncle Sam will march with 
Columbia; and lor the lad in kilties 
there'll be many a lass in plaid.
The wandering minstrels and 
troupes will furnish umuseiAent 
throughout the evening. These stunts 
gire to be put on by different groups 
of girls and are already ibeiug worked 
upon. The Science Club of M. M. D. 
is going to put on one of the stunts 
and you may be sure it will be a line 
one. It is going to be very spectacular 
in nature and no one can afford to 
miss it..'
Langley Lab is going to be open for 
dancing in between times and there 
will be fine music and plenty of room 
for every one. The Union will be used 
If there are too many for the Lab.
It’s up to every one of you to help 
make M'ardi Gras a never to be for­
gotten Tech red letter day. Each one 
can do so much to help it along. Tell 
your room mate, your best friend, 
your fraternity brother, your Maggie 
Murpli. what .kind of a costume you’re 
going to got and start him or her 
thinklpg about what kind ‘of a one 
they'll got. It dooan’t matter how 
fancy or olaborato your costume is. 
A black domino will be just, as wol- 
como and have just as good a time as 
n Beaux Brunnnol. The girls are com­
ing becauso this is. their contribution 
to Campus Week fun and what more 
nood be said to a. real Tech man.
Bogin to plan now and don't wait, 
until too late or you’ll never cease to 
regret tliat you missed tho biggest 
thing in Tech life for many a year.
PLEBES AND SOPHOMORES
Interested in positions on the *
? business staff of The. Tartan *
? leading to Advertising and Cir- * 
' v culation Managers and Business *
-I- Manager, call W. R. Mills, Scheu- *
? ley 9211.
? ? * ? ? ? * ?
ATHLETIC EVENTS
ALL THREE DAYS
(Continued From Pago One.) 
HOUJ’ce of much fun and much per­
spiration on the part of tho actors. 
Rill Pfoutn mid Cap Dosoy and old J. 
Hornin'.will probably bo the star por- 
formorn that they usually are. Indeed 
It lit very doubtful wheMor tho team 
would function properly unions it had 
thone throe nt. pitcher, llrnt base and 
shortstop, Tho Son lorn have not as 
yot a lineup hut.‘they have decided to 
have Bill Reilly and tho rest of his 
gang of rooters stand on tho side 
linos and talk Bill Pfouts out of tho 
game;
Varsity Plays Buoknoll.
At 1:30 on Friday tho varsity base­
ball team will play tho Bucknoll Uni­
versity squad on the athletic Hold. 
Last year Bucknoll handed Us a de­
feat on their home lleld and our boys 
are out to make them pay for it. Most 
of our fans feel that the revenge will 
come. The Bucknell team will have 
several veterans and they have had 
a fine record so far this season. From 
the dope and tire way the team looks 
everything points to a good game.
Tennis Team to Play Bethany.
The Bethany team appears here on 
Friday afternoon of Campus Week. 
The matches will start immediately 
after the baseball game with Buclt- 
nell. The Bethany team is strong and 
have been very successful so far 
this year. Our team captained by Jack 
Iiarkness is hard at work every day 
under the direction of Col. Brooks. 
Col. Brooks plans to put a good, well- 
trained team on the courts when 
Bethany conies here. He has been; 
somewhat handicapped because the 
whole Varsity team graduated last 
year. There is, however, some very 
good material. Bothany will at all 
events recoivo sonio very strong op­
position to any •attempt, they may 
make to carry off a victory.
Alumni to Play Baseball Team.
Saturday, t.ho last day of Campus 
Wook, will start with a baseball game 
between'tho alumni and the squad. 
’Phis year as last tho gamo will bo a 
tine opportunity for tho alumni to got 
out and soe the old gang in action. 
Tubby Lain, Jim Doherty and Poto 
Domuth and othiors or tho long list; of 
Carnegie's baseball stars, Tho game 
will start at. 10:30 a. m. sharp.
Tennis With W. & J.
Tho afternoon athletic events will 
include tho tennis match with Wasli- 
Jeff, a bnsoball game with Bethany 
College and up on the oval the track 
team will have a dual meet with West 
Virginia University. These are the 
athletic events of Campus Week. 
Come back and give a chieer for old 
Tech's teams once more.
GIRLS’ MUSICAL CLUBSTO 
HOLD CONCERT AND DANCE
The second Girls’ Home Concert will 
bo given Saturday, April 30, in the 
Pittsburgh Conservatory of Music.
The program opens with our be­
loved “Dear Old Tech,” sung by the 
combined clubs. The Glee Club fol­
lows with the selection. "Roses, Roses 
Everywhere." Everybody knows the 
Stringers. All tho jazziest and latest 
pieces will ho on the program with 
several specialties, As for the solo­
ists, they’ll be an exceptional treat. 
Mary McCIosky and Gladys Richmond 
will delight the listeners with inim­
itable numbers. Several of the- new 
girls will also bo given an opportunity 
to display their ability. Peg Harmon 
will give one of her delightful read­
ings.
After an intermission the Stringers 
will start off with one of their feat­
ures, Then comes "Mister Booga- 
man” by the Glee Club. The rest of the 
program is varied, closing with a 
melody of school songs.
Following tho concert an informal 
dance will be field in the Conserva­
tory. The prices are: For the con­
cert only, 75 cents will be charged for 
admission; for the concert and dance, 
the prices will be 50 cents for the 
concert and .$1 a couple for the 
dance.
The Ciris' Musical Clubs were or­
ganized last year through efforts of 
Miss Parry, and the girls are en- 
doavoring to perpetuate Miss Parry’s 
work for Tech in this worthy way.
S. A. B. MEETING
The regular meeting of the Stud­
ents' Activities Board was held last 
Tuesday night, April 19, 11)21.
The petition for recognition of the 
Radio Club was ¡declined but a loan 
will be.granted them by the S. A. B.
C. B. Schmidt reported that the list 
of organizations to receive insignia 
was nearly complete and insignia will 
be ordered soon.
Alpha Alpha Nu reported good 
progress in production of student 
handbook.
The plaid for the Carnegie Banner 
has been ordered by Mr. I-Iaaran and 
will be on hand soon.
Bloom stated that a. graduate man­
ager of activities will soon be secured 
and perhaps made known next meet­
ing.
The night officers of the S. A. B. 
held a meeting with Dr. Irhig in 
reference to the five dollars activity 
fee. A unanimous vote was taken 
In favor of the assessment.
Mr, Greenwald was elected by the 
night officers to prepare a statement 
explaining the expenditures of this 
fee.
Fifty dollars was granted for budget 
to the night inter-school; dance.
The Alpha Alpha Nu was asked to 
publish a brief statement of the finan­
cial report of the S. A. B. in the stud­
ents’ handbook.
The next meeting will he held Wed­
nesday, May 4. It will also include’a 
meeting of the management of the 
various activities.'
LAST. YEAR'S QUALIFICATION PARADE
Happenings on the Campus
SENIOR CHEMICALS
HOLD SMOKER
Last Wednesday the Senior Chem­
icals hold a farowoll smokor at tlip 
Lincoln Club. There was lots to eat 
and lots to drink (Sh-li-.) I. Sissmon 
won tino prize as tho champion chem­
ist by guessing tho lurgost number of 
mysterious chemicals contained in 
ton), tuboH. After tho oats (and 
drinks) Dr. James, Prof. Donnoll and 
Mr. Turnook gavo short talks.
LEE LECTURE8 TO ARCHITECTS
Mr, E. B. Loo, one of Pittsburgh’s 
loading building arch I toots, tho 'de­
signer of tho Chamber of Commorco 
building, tho Clty-County building and 
other structures of similar naturo In 
this city, is giving a course of six or 
more locturos to tho studonts of tho 
Architectural department.
Those talks afford tho architects an 
opportunity to learn something con­
cerning the business side of architec­
ture, systems used in an architect's 
oilice, situations that arise between 
contractqr and designer, etc.
Much interest has been shown by 
the students and all the lectures have 
been very well attended.
P. & D. AND APPLIED
ARTS MAY FROLIC
The P. & D. department is going to 
put on another one of those myster­
ious 'bohemian affairs, only this one 
is a frolic. It will be stranger than 
mysterious night.
Izzy Cervone is going to send his 
five most famous pieces out to join 
in the capper.
The dance is on Friday, May Gtli, 
from 8:30 to 12. One member of the 
couple must be from Applied Arts or 
Painting and Decorating. Luncli will 
be served.
CLASS MEETINGS AT ARTS
At tho Sophomore class meeting 
Monday, the 18th, C. E. Lauderfelt 
was unanimously elected as editoy-in­
ch iof oi’ tho 1922 Thistle staff.
On Tuesday, the 19th, tho Arts 
Plobos hold a meeting, A report from 
class treasurer, Walter Doiter, showed 
tho Plobe jig a financial . siiccoss. 
Toasdalo Barney was olectod as ropro- 
soiitatlvo on tho Thistle board. It 
was voted to hold a class picnic. The 
class also voted in favor of tho Four 
School Freshman danco to bo hold 
in Arts on May 28.
The Plebe fioat for Campus Week 
parado is in chcirgo of Charles Zim­
mers, chairman ;| Lawrence Roan, 
John Groth and Joseph Mullen. Tho 
Plebe stunt for the circus will be 
taken care of by Margaret Ripley, 
chairman; Helen S. Johnson, Charles 
Kurtz and Karl Sonneman.
B. T. U. CLUB
------T4On Friday p. m., April 15, the B. T. 
U. Club again resumed activities fol­
lowing the Easter vacation,
A short business mooting was held 
at 1 o’clock, Vice President Raflowitz 
talcing charge, It. was announced that 
E. S. Bliss had departed from school 
and tendered his resignation as presi­
dent of tho club. Nominations for 
tho filling of this vacancy were in or* 
dor, R. Carr was chosen.
This quarter it is planned to spend 
tho half-day on inspection trips to 
foundries and firms intlerested primar­
ily with certain phasoBi of boating and 
ventilating, equipment;
STUDENT COUNCIL MEETING
Miss Hewitt, an instructor in tho 
Arts Department of Margaret Mor­
rison Division, submitted several de­
signs for degreo rings for Council’s 
consideration at its meeting last 
week. The designs, which) were work­
ed up by Miss Hewitt and lier de­
partment, were excellent. No action 
was taken, however, ponding the sub­
mission of other designs.
C. H. Wallace, chairman of the 
Commencement Week Committee, 
presented the program for the week. 
Starting Tuesday, May 31, the Seniors 
are promised a busy time. The caps 
and gowns for the baccalaureate and 
commencement exercises have been 
secured.
Following discussion on the need of 
having a Y. M. C. A. secretary on the 
campus and the advantages to be de­
rived Council went on record as re­
questing that such! a secretary be 
procured. This secretary will be 
furnislied by and at the expense of 
the National Y. M. C. A.
Clarke was stationed at the overseas 
headquarters of the Near East Relief 
in Constantinople.
He chose as his subject “the most 
fascinating and interesting part of the 
world, outside of America—the Near 
East.” He. told of the part the Near 
East, and especially Armeni«a, had 
taken in the World War. Had it not 
been for what that country did .the 
war might still be raging and many 
who heard Dr. Clarke might have now 
been resting in France. When the 
Armenians were given the choice— 
“life if for Mohammed; death if for 
their Christ” and chose the latter we 
can well see that they deserve our 
attention in their present condition 
of "undescribable destitution and 
want.”
Te Ata Thompson, a true Indian 
princess, of the Department of Drama, 
furnished a novel form of entertain­
ment with a dance.
A.—C. Mays, chairman of the Cam­
pus Week committee, emphasized the 
necessity of the co-operation of the 
entire student body in carrying out 
the Campus Week program, and urged 
everyone to get behind the project 
and push^and thus help to place the 
school positively before the people of 
Pittsburgh.
Graduate Manager Haaran took 
charge of the assembly at this point 
and awarded the insignia and basket 
ball sweaters to the members of this 
year’s squad. Capt. I-Iamman, Ni.chol 
and Gibson, former letter men as 
well as Dosey, Pittman, McPhee, Bell 
and Leete received their letters., 
“Skitch” Henderson, manager of the 
varsity squad, and I-Ieil, manager of 
the Plebe five, were also awarded 
the C.
Mr. I-IaarOn commended the hockey 
team for their wonderful work 
against odds and showed how a founda­
tion had been set for future teams 
by the men who made up the Tecli 
hockey team of thds year. The fol­
lowers of the ice sport who repre­
sented the school the past season as 
well as Coach Gordon deserves a 
great deal of credit and the awarding 
of sweaters to them goes only a short 
way in recognition of their good work. 
The student body will certainly miss 
Capt. Perc\.Tewell and Schmertz, who 
leave us this year. The following mem­
bers of the squad were awarded 
sweaters: Jewell, I-Iedlund, Godden.
Schmertz, Cappe, Dickey, Andrews, 
Quinn and Manager Franklin.
BIG CIRCUS WILL END
CAMPUS WEEK
BIG SWEEPSTAKE RACES
EXTRAORDINARY EVENT
As a program, buy the Campus 
Courier.
(Continued ¡From Page One.) 
winner of the race, if he recovers from 
his ecstacy; the other will be given to 
the fraternity which is responsible for 
the most uniquely designed car.
Anyone who witnessed the reckless­
ness of last year’s races will be there 
to enjoy a good laugh, because this is 
the funniest event of the program. 
Care and discretion has been expend­
ed in providing for the safety of the 
spectators. Anyone who has a weak 
hoarti should bo accompanied by an 
undertalcor, because the Campus Week 
committee will not, he responsible for 
any deaths from unnatural causes. No 
arrangements have boon mado to un­
dertake to care for anyone but the 
racers.
(Continued From Page One.) 
your stunts at the boxes provided in 
the hallways of each division or get 
in direct touch with the committee, 
members. Everything possible will be 
done to co-operate with those put­
ting on stunts. There are some cos­
tumes at the disposal of the commit­
tee which may be used. Paint and 
other make-up material will'also be 
on hand for the use of those in the 
stunts.
A big feature of the circus is due to 
the fact* that the circus is being hbld 
at night. This feature is the elaborate 
electrical display which is being pre­
pared. Students of the electrical de­
partment are hard at work perfecting 
apparatus which will give those at­
tending the circus the pleasuro of see­
ing one of the most brilliant displays 
ever seen in this part of the country. 
Hundreds of spot lights will play on 
the arena and make the place as 
bright as day.
The side show includes many novel 
features, among them being:
Aroma, the cigarette fiend. Smokes 
24 hours every day, consumes four at 
a time.
Artisto, the man with the artistic 
touch. Portraits a specialty. Paints 
them while you wait.
Gloomo, the man who never laugh­
ed. Five dollars to the person who can 
make him smile.
Roscoe, the Wild Man. Absolutely 
the only Equidorian in captivity. The 
anchor chain of the U. S. S'. Missouri 
is used to hold him. Beware of his 
cudgel.
Orienta, the Egyptian Dancer. 
Brought from the Nile at great ex­
pense by the committee and held un­
der contract to perform Saturday 
evening.
The committee is anxious to put on 
the very best show possible and no 
one can afford to miss this wonderful 
spectacle. The wealth of material in 
school should guarantee this event to 
be the biggest feature of Campus 
Week.
TAP DAY
DR. CLARKE SPEAKER AT
ASSEMBLY IN MUSIC HALL
Basket Ball Insignia Awarded.
The general assembly held in the 
Music Hall last Wednesday was 
featured by a message from J. Calvitt 
Clarke, D. D., of Philadelphia. After 
having served in France as a Y. M. 
C. A. worker during the war. Dr.
(Continued From Page One.) 
are six of these class societies. The 
“Dragon,” a men’s senior honorary 
society, which selects 15 men annual­
ly from the Junior classes of the 
men’s schools; “Delta Skull,” a Junior 
society of the same character,: selects 
the most distinguished members of 
the Sophomore class; the “Law- 
tochfrarie,” a Sophomore society that 
limits its number to 12 men of the 
Science Freshmen class, and the 
"Kilmarnock," which covers the same 
sphere in the Industries division. 
There is also a girls’ Senior honorary 
that has been recently organized.
Besides these organizations there 
is Alpha Alpha Nu, which selects men 
from tho staffs of the various Tech 
periodicals.
On Tap Day all the societies ¦will 
announce their elections to member­
ships for the coming year and those 
who are elected deserve the con­
gratulations of their classmates and 
the entire student body as it is a dis­
tinct honor to be thus marked.
For your • Morning paper—the 
Campus Courier.
Special
14-Piece 
Drawing Set,
$10.00
Wolk’s
410 Market St.
Opp. McCann's
GET READY 
-------for the-------
SPRING PARTY
THURSDAY, MAY 19
Oakland Community House
3904 FORBES STREET
TRANSITS AND LEVELS 
ALL SUPPLIES FOR THE 
DRAFTING ROOM
Engineers- equipment. Instru­
ments of Precision, Blue Print 
and Brown Print Papers and 
Cloths.
B. K. ELLIOT CO.
126 SIXTH STREET
HATS
and
Men’s Furnishings
6100 PENN AVENUE
I SKIBO INN: -_____—------------— - - -
Remodeled and 
? Enlarged
v CLEAN,
:i: WHOLESOME,
I FOOD
Served at best prices 
CIGARS CANDY
SPUR-A UG0 Uc55p0ObbjeVOLL.XCluett.Pcabody &-Co. Inc.Troy, N.Y.
Do You Need Extra Courses?
Send for catalog describing over 400 courses in History, English, 
Mathematics, Chemistry, Zoology, Modern Languages, Economics,
Philosophy, Sociology, etc., given by correspondence. Inquire how credits earned may be applied on present college program.
Glljr Imtwraity nf QUjtrago
HOME STUDY DEPT.CHICAGO. ILLINOIS
TECH CAFETERA
LANGLEY LABORATORY 
Under Supervision of Varsity Clan 
OUR
EATS AND PRICES
CANT BE BEAT 
ENOS KIRKPATRICK, Manager
X M S !
JIJJLl./-
n
1
lllft
1llEiiìi sl«IS
FRANK BROTHERS
FIFTH AVENUE BOOT SHOP
NEAR FORTY-EIGHTH STREET, NEW YORK 
BOOTS, SLIPPERS, HOSIERY FOR MEN, WOMEN 
AND CHILDREN
Pittsburgh, Jenkins Arcad
CHICAGO
Michigan Blvd.
Bldg. Corner 
Washington SL 
ST. LOUIS 
Arcade Building:
NEW HAVEN
Hotel Taft 
BOSTON 
Little Building 
CLEVELAND 
Athletic Club 
Building
WASHINGTON
Woodward Bldg. 
opp. Shoreham 
Hotel
SAN FRANCISCO
Whitney Bldg. 
133 Geary St.
BATTERY“Exide”
SERVICE
IRON CITY ELECTRIC CO. 1
Baum and Mellwood 
All Kinds of Batteries •£ 
Repaired * Recharged :j:
X*X~X~X*<~X*X*vX~X*X~X~I~X"X~X~X~X"X~X"X~X~X"X~X*X*X”Xv

---------------------------------------------------

f
WEDNESDAY, APRIL 27, 1921_________-rWE TARTANPAGE THREE
HUNGARIAN ROYAL PALACE
BUDAPEST. HUNGARY 
Most of the famous buildings of the uorld
PLAID ATHLETICS
MEDALS TO BE AWARDED IN ' S. A. E. WINS BASKET BALL ¡ BASKET BALL AND HOCKEY
INTER-CLASS RIFLE MATCH
The Rifle Clubs announce that the 
club’s range on the Loge floor of the 
Arts building ^Vill be open to the 
three men’s schools for the inter­
class matches.
These matches will be shot under 
National Rifle Association rules. The 
scores will count for the individual 
championship of Carnegie Tech) and 
the high men in each class will be 
considered the class team for the 
class championship. There will be two 
stages, standing and prone. Entries 
wi be charged 25 cents and re-entries 
a nominal amount. There will be 
seven medals given, gold first, silver 
second and bronze third, prone and 
standing and the man scoring the 
highest combination score will be 
awarded a gold medal.
All entries will be made to Wolter, 
Plebe Section C Industries or Mc­
Cullough, Senior Commercial, by Mon­
day, May 1. Get your'entry in.
Matches will be shot Tuesdays, 
Thursdays and Fridays, 4:30 to 6:30. 
Saturday mornings 9:30 to noon will 
be given over to the Freshmen cup 
match. The' cup given by “Thompson 
and Hawood will be worth competing 
for and all Freshmen are urged to 
watch the bulletin boards for final an­
nouncement of entries, etc. This 
match should point out much good 
material for next year’s team.
FOUND—Set of weights and watch 
glasses. Can be secured at Dean 
Tarbell’s office.
NATIONAL
RESTAURANT 
H. WARNER, Proprietor.
"Oakland’s Most Popular Eating j 
Place"
Special Evening Dinner 75c 
Best Plate Lunch In City 35c 
Two Blocks from Forbes Field 
ATWOOD, BETWEEN FORBES 
AND FIFTH
CHAMPIONSHIP TEAMS HOLD ANNUAL BANQUET
The second and final game of the 
Inter-Fraternityj Dormitory Basket 
Ball League Championship series was 
played and won by the S. A. E. team 
from the speedy Tau Gamma Phi team 
last Thursday night. Score'24-17.
The Tau Gamms took the lead from 
the start, the first quarter ending 6-3 
in their favor. The superior shooting 
ability of Anderson and Wilson com­
bined with closer guarding on the 
part of the Sig lAlphs finally over­
came the fine team work of the Tau 
Gamms and enabled the S. A. E.s to 
nose out a victory in the final half.
Lind, Conrad and Rudy played 
stellar roles for Tail Gamma Phi, each 
caging four, two and one field baskets 
in the order named.
Anderson, with five field baskets 
and six out of ten fouls, was the 
leading scorer for S. A. E. Wilson 
caged four baskets in the second quar­
ter, which helped S. A. E. materially.
The first game of the series, played 
Tuesday night, ended with -the score 
19-18 in favor of S. A. E. This game 
was reported by spectators as being 
one of the fastest and cleanest games 
played on Tech’s floor this season. In 
this game Anderson shot three field 
baskets and 11 out of 13 fouls, scoring 
all but two of the points made by S. 
A. E.
Nichol and Hammond of the Var­
sity, refereed both games in a highly 
efficient and satisfactory manner.
MANY FEATURE
CONCESSIONS SOLD
(Continued From Page One.) 
orations.
Besides the booths selling eatables 
several concessions have been taken 
out similar to the famous "Hells Bells 
Saloon” that caused so much fun and 
favorable comment last year. One 
concessions, known as the “Pirates' 
Den,” was just signed up a few days 
ago and although it is not known who 
the promoters are we hear they have 
some new tricks to show their 
patrons.
BASEBALL UNIFORMS
The most complete array of Baseball Outfits to be found anywhere 
Is now ready for your inspection, Mr. Baseball Player, at Honus 
Wagner’s.
Manufacturers who represent world's standard In baseball and 
all sporting goods stand behind the Honus Wagner reputation which 
Is accepted as a standard of honest value by thousands of Pittsburgh 
players and fans.
Honus Wagner has spared no effort in gathlng the best to be 
had for your approval, Mr. Player. You owe It to yourself and your 
team to look them over before considering a purchase anywhere.
Complete Outfits $11 and up
Quality Highest Always And You Never Pay More at Honus Wagner’s.
HONUS WAGNER SPORTING GOODS GO.
438 WOOD STREET
WE WILL BE GLAD TO SHOW TEAMS UNIFORM SAMPLES ANY 
EVENING BY APPOINTMENT
art equipped witn uits h.leva'.ors
E
VERY part of this beautiful Palace was 
designed and built by Hungarians— 
except one. This was the elevator 
installation.
When they needed elevators in keeping with 
this structure of white Hungarian marble 
and sandstone, there was only one firm 
considered—the international firm of Otis. 
Two passenger elevators were supplied, and 
in those days they were used by the Emper­
or, members of the Royal Household, and 
guests.
was more than twenty years ago. 
Otis was then the leader in the elevator 
industry, as Otis is now.
In palaces of kings, in the greatest and the 
tallest office buildings of the world, in resi­
dences, ships, towers, theatres—^everywhere 
where vertical transportation is required, you 
will find Otis Elevators—the safest and most 
efficient of all.
OTIS ELEVATOR COMPANY
Off.ee* in all Principal Citle» of the World
Last Wednesday evening the bas­
ket ball and hockey team got together 
in the Beanery for their annual ban­
quet. It closed a successful season in 
both sports despite the difficulties un­
der which both teams worked. The 
feed gotten up by Manager Kirkpat­
rick was of a good sort, and good 
fellowship prevailed around the 
tables.
After dinner Frank Haaren as toast­
master introduced men from both 
teams as speakers. Coach Iddings 
commended the fine spirit and co­
operation of his men and promised a 
good team for ^iext year. He also 
paid a fine compliment to Hannnnnn, 
captain of the basket ball team. 
Hammann praised Coach Iddings, 
mentioning him as the best coach lie 
ever worked under. Major Gordon, 
coach of the hockey team, spoke of the 
difficulties under which he and his 
squad had had to work. He gave his 
time to coaching the team because of 
his great love for the game. He said 
the prospects for next year were 
bright in spite of the fact tfiat several 
of the men would be lost by gradua­
tion. “Doc” Madden of the P. A. A. 
commented upon the good showing of 
the team, especially against Notre 
Dame, wliicAi he considers one of the 
best college teams in the country. He 
declared there was no reason why 
Tech should not have a stronger team 
next year. Manager Franklin pre­
sented Coach Gordon with a cigarette 
case on behalf of the team.
R. C. Gibson was elected captain of 
basket ball and R. C. Carew manager 
for next year. . Tine' selections for 
hockey were H. C. Goddeh captain and 
G.-W. First manager.
TECH BEATS PITT IN CHESS
The Carnegie Chess teams jour­
neyed up to the Pitt Y Hut last Tues­
day night with the avowed intent of 
coming back victors—aud they did!
The team managers decided that 
the score should be counted by men, 
each man winning two out of three, 
-scoring one point for his team. Play 
started at S o’clock and ended at 1:15 
a. m. The Tech team won six of the 
eight games played, as indicated be­
low:
Tech. Pitt.
Cuthbert ...11 Dunkle .......... 0 0
Houlick ... 1 1 Smyres ......... 00
Diamond .. 1 * Krow ' .......... 0 *
Powell.. 10 0 Harrar ...... 0 1 1
•Series not played off Tuesday 
night.
Cuthbert proved himself to be the 
most resourceful player of either side. 
He played a fast offensive game from 
the start, winning his first from 
Dunkle in 64 moves. Timer One 
hour and 25 minutes. Dunkle is con­
sidered the strongest Pitt Player. He 
was forced to play’ the defensive all 
through the first game. The second 
Victory -for Cuthbert was completed 
in 40 moves after he had lost a 
bishop to Dunkle on the fourth move. 
In remarking upon this game, Dunkle 
said that it was the first time lie had 
been beaten after gaining such a lead 
on an opponent.
Horolick played a steady consistent 
game. He won two straight from 
Smyres without resorting to spec­
tacular plays. His decisions were 
quick and unerring. 1-Ie seemed al­
ways prepared for several moves in 
advance. The first game was won in
& & ----------- rn,~„. ------------,i g5
I minutes. 'Second game: 51 moves in 
one hour and 10 minutes.
Diamond won one game from Krow 
in three hours and 15 minutes. Dia­
mond’s victory was assured after the 
I first hour, but ho was unable to force 
J the issue. The second game was not 
I played, but is scheduled to be played 
off not later* than April 23. Powell 
won his first game in 28 moves, Har­
rar making a bad blunder early In 
the game. Harrar won the second 
game of his series with Powell. Time: 
One hour. This was the first victory 
for Pitt. The third game was given 
to Pitt at the end of two and a half! 
hours of play. Powell protested this 
game on the ground that Harrar had 
broken a recognized rule earlier in 
the game. This was admitted, but 
Pitt contended that Powell should 
have claimed the game when tho rule 
was broken instead of continuing tho 
game. H. L. Griffin and H. C. Dow- 
den, president and manager of tho 
Tech Club, decided that Tech was 
probably as much in error as was 
Pitt, and tho gamo was given to Pitt 
without exceptions being noted.
This resulted in a final score of .2-1 
for Tech, but the actual result of tho 
match rests on the games still to be 
played between Diamond and Krow. 
In tho event of Ivrow’s winning two 
games from Diamond, the match 
would be a tie. However, not even 
the Pitt team considers such a result 
as more than a bare possibility.
Everything but the date has been 
arranged for a return match to be 
played at Toch in the near future. Ar­
rangements are also nearly completed 
for matches to be played with Geneva 
and Allegheny this spring.
LARRY STULTS GOING OVER THE TOP, CAMPUS
MUSICAL CLUBS MAKE
HIT AT BELLEVUE
Tech's band crashed Into promin­
ence at Bellevue last Wednesday 
evening when they led the musical 
clubs in a short parade previous to 
the concert given in the high school 
auditorium later in the evening. This 
concert was arranged by the Ath­
letic Association and was given un­
der the auspices of the Lambkin Club 
of Bellevue. The clubs were given a 
dinner before the concert.
The.band opened the concert in the 
auditorium with a series of very fine 
selections, which were splendidly ex­
ecuted. They were given a great re­
ception by the large audience pres­
ent. Despite the many handicaps it 
has had to face all season and the 
lack of. interest taken in it by the 
school, the band has worked diligent­
ly for an organization that is more 
than a credit to the school. Three 
numbers by the Glee Club followed 
the. band’s part of the program. The 
singers were in good trim and put 
their selections over in great style. 
The Mandolin Club tben got its in­
nings and performed in its usual 
snappy manner.
But the hit of the evening was the 
jazz orchestra. Their numbers were 
pure jazz and carried the house for 
two encores, which might have been 
three had the stage manager not rung 
down the curtain on them. Agnew 
and LaBlanc won new laurels by the 
manner in which they staged their 
black-facq. stunt. They were com­
pelled to speed it up because of the 
lateness of the hour and had to omit 
or change some parts b6cause of in­
appropriateness, but they did it all 
like a couple of professionals.
A dance was held In the high 
school gym following the concert, at 
which the clubs were guests. It was 
one of the most successful and agree­
able trips of the season and the clubs 
are looking forward to the next con­
cert which has been arranged by the 
Athletic Association and which will 
be given at Crafton on May 4.
TECHNICAL JOURNAL
THIS WEEK
Another Revision.
When fashion enters the doer» bills 
fly In the window.—Boston Tran­
script.
This issue without doubt will be tho 
best one of the year. There are a num­
ber of interesting articles which will 
appeal to everyone for the trend of the 
paper is to become less technical and 
more general in its subject matter.
“Is a Business Training Valuable 
to the Engineer?” is a question that 
many students are asking in these 
days of depression. Will a training 
in business methods in addition to a 
technical education give the engineer 
a broader outlook; will it give him 
greater opportunity and - more ad­
vantage in the professional world? 
Read the Journal for your answer to 
these questions.
How can the health of a small com­
munity be improved? How much can 
be done to prevent disease and how 
successful are the means employed to 
reduce disease to a minimum? Read 
Dr. Rushe's article on what was done 
in a neighboring small town.
“Economics and tjie Engineer” is 
an article by R. S. Alexander, which 
outlines some of the broader prin­
ciples of engineering that are sel­
dom appreciated.
What is that little experiment sta­
tion down in the hollow between 
Machinery Hall and. the Bureau of 
mines?- Read the Journal and learn!
Students graduating this year will 
be interested to know just what the 
former graduates are doing. Positions 
look mighty scarce but not to Tech 
graduates, according to the Personal 
column in the Journal.
WANTED! *
Acrobats, Jugglers, Dancers, * 
Clowns, Horseback Perform- * 
ers, Etc., for the Tech * 
Circus Jc-------- y *
Those willing to take part * 
leave names at *
POSTOFFICE *
*5*
¦ addressed CHAIRMAN CIRCUS * 
• COMMITTEE. *
, -fr .I*
rangomonts to make. Other evonts of 
the program will give you somothlug 
to do ovory minute aud ospocially will 
you find Friday night hilarious enough 
to celebrate the return of tho most 
prodigal son. for tho Great Murdi 
Gras will bo the center of festivities. 
Tho Intor-Fratornity Pushmobile 
Sweepstakes will cause many a laugh 
and tho Famous Toch Circus with its 
side shows has some of the most side- 
split! lug comedy acts. Several spec­
tacular features have also been plan­
ned and made possible by holding tho 
circus in the evening. Then porhaps 
the thing closest to your heart, will be 
the Alumni Banquet on Thursday 
night. At this timo tho embryo grad­
uates of 1921 will meet.the graduates
of other years for tho Seniors are in­
vited to the banquet.
These are but a tow of tho many 
things that await you at Carnegio 
Toch on Campus Week. Lot’s plan to 
be there. Let every one, alumni and 
families, faculty, students and friends 
of Tech make May 12. 13 and 14 the 
biggest, reunion of one of tho young­
est. collegos in the country. Tech has 
always had a reputation for an 
abundance of school spirit. Lot’s keep 
it alive. Remember Tech’s reputation 
is your reputation.
Twino Made of Asbestos. 
Twine for binding parts of epptto 
atus exposed to tire or acid la uow 
being made of asbestos.
DON’T JUST GET EDUCATEDKEEP EDUCATED
CAMPUS WEEK AT
TECH FOR ALUMNI
(Continued; From> Pagp Ono.) 
friends. Drop Mr. Tilbrook a card 
saying you will be in tho parade so 
tho committoo wjll know what ar-
TO YOUR
Mother
Wife
Sister
Sweetheart
Stenographer
Phone Girl
Nurse
SERVE NOTICE IT BUCE
THAT
YOU ARE GOING
EVEN IF YOU LOSE YOUR
JOB AND HOME
TO THE
TO YOUR
President
Partner
Manager
Doctor
T rainer
Janitor
Jailer
€. I. T. CAMPUS WEEK
SCIIENLEY PARK, PITTSBURGH
May 12, 13th and 14th, 1921
WE GUARANTEE A LOT OF FUN 
BUT A LITTLE BUSINESS WILL BE "DUN”
You are going Your classmates are going Your Collegcmatcs are going 
Plan Now Everybody’s going Pack now
For further particulars address
ALUMNI OFFICE C. I. T. 
MmmmtimttmwKtmmtmimHimmttmnmmurttmmmtiwstttmwimimmKi
With acknowledgments to K, C, Ü.
Henry even carries 
marches now
In packages of DO protected 
by special moisture-proof 
wrapper. Alao in round 
AIR-TIGHT tins of 50.
HENRY WA8 “noar."
IN OTHER word», tight.* • •
HE CARRIED two pack».,
OF CIGARETTE8.
ONE FOR frlond ITonry.
FULL OF "Satisfy«.”
AND THE other containing. 
JUST ONE cigarette.
AND THAT lono olgarotto.
WAS ALWAYS offored.
TO SMOKELE88 friend«.
WHO WERE all pollto.
AND REFUSED to tako It.
AND SOMEHOW Henry.
WAS NOT popular.
TILL ONE day by mistake.
HE PULLED tho full pack.
AND EVERYONE fell on it. 
WITH LOUD cries 'of glee.
HIS STRONG constitution. 
CARRIED HENRY through. 
AND DAY by day.
HE GREW more popular.
AND HENRY knew why.
FOR HE’S nobody's dummy. 
AND NOWADAYS ho not only. 
CARRIES THE cigarettes. 
THAT SATISFY.
BUT FORCES 'em on people. 
GIVES AWAY packs of ’em. 
AND, SHUCKS.
HENRY COULD run for Mayor. 
AND GET av/ay with il now.
G
IVE your friends the real 
thing—introduce them to 
Chesterfields! Odds are they’ll 
find just what you’ve found 
in this wonderful Turkish- 
Domestic blend — a smoke 
that by comparison seema 
’way out of its price class— and io, “They Satisfy!"

---------------------------------------------------

/
IPsvirvrt -/Jay
Tfoe Turkish Cibare tte
WmÊÊÊm
We go 6000 miles for the )
Turkish tobacco used in Murad—Why?
Because—Turkish has a taste—Turkish has a mildness—Turkish 
has a delight—far beyond all cigarette tobaccos of all other lands— 
Murad gives you real enjoyment, and true delight such as no 
Tobacco other than 100% Pure Turkish Tobacco can give.
Tens of thousands of smokers — tens of 
thousands of times — have PROVEN this —
'Judge for Yourself—! ”
iGrvifliffeh(CainbcVMi
BELLEFIELD PRESBYTERIAN 
CHURCH 
Bellefleld and Fifth Avenues. 
Rev. Robert MacGowan, D. D., 
Minister.
Preaching Service, 11 and 8.
Sunday School at 10.
Christian Endeavor at 7.
Wo want the Toch hoys to at­
tend our services and learn to 
know us as the congregation of 
"Friendly People." A hearty 
wolcomo await» you.
It is businesslike,' con­
venient, safe. It pro­
vides a receipt flint is 
proof con elusive for 
money pitici out.
Bright eves, 
rosy checks, 
and red f«E 
come from 
good digestion.
WRIGLEVS Isa 
delicious aid to tho 
teeth, breath, appe­
tite and digestion.
Iff The 
Flavor 
$ LASTS
^AI9L^
WRIGUEY5
Is still
WALTER DILI. SCOTT, Prooldont.
RESTAURANT
VERNON AND CURRY 
Proprietors.
4529 FORBES STREET 
A Bit Small 
But Oh, You Good Eats 
Try us and be convinced.
CAMPUS WEEK, MAY 12-13-14
ALUMNI BANQUET, THURSDAY MAY 12—MAKE RESERVATIONS BEFORE MAY 6
PAGE FOUR THE TAR! ^_______________________________________________________________WEDNESDAY, APRIL 27, 1921
AUTO PARADE DOWNparade. ¦ These costumes can also be 
used in the Mardi Gras the following 
night as every one is expected to be 
in costume for that event in order to 
get the proper spirit and pep worked 
up.
The parade is the first thing of its 
kind to be held in Pittsburgh arid if 
every one enters it with] the proper 
spirit it should be a lot of fun. If it 
goes over well Campus Week will 
have a flying start. The idea of the 
parade is due to Mr. Tilbrook, who 
is very enthusiastic over it and has 
promised all sorts of help to make it 
a success. All that now remains is for 
the student body to take hold and give 
their undivided support. Let’s give 
every minute of May 12, 13 and 14 to 
Tech and every moment we can spare 
before that to get ready.
SUBMARINES*.
I
N every walk of life a man 
should toe the mark In a well fitting constructed-to- 
wear pair of half hose.
We are selling the Interwoven 
guaranteed hose for men. A 
new pair if at any time during 
six months they fail to do their duty.
Our collar styles are up to 
the minute and we are selling 
a better class of cravats that 
will give your costume a touch of distinction.
We also are showing Spring 
Suits at prices that are right— $24.50, $34.50 and $44.50. Come 
in and look them over.
ALUMNI BANQUET
Tho second annual Federation ban­
quet closes the first year of real 
Alumni activity at Carnegie Tech. 
Its accomplishment» during the past 
year are Op evident that wo can't help 
hut feel it 1» tho real foundation on 
which wo are to ba»o our future or­
ganization.
Trie Alumni have taken over ath­
letics, tho result being the best in 
the history of the school. The cam­
paign for funds which has just been 
completed is our one big guarantee 
for athletics and alumni control for at 
least three years. The Field House 
has been remodeled and made more 
efficient for the carrying on of our 
athletic program. New equipment 
has been purchased and every phase 
of athletics has been made better and 
more complete.
The Alumni membership has been 
increased froni 587 to 1310 in one 
year.
What part have you played in this 
program? What part are you going 
to play in Tech’s future, now that the 
eyes of the Carhegie Corporation are 
on us, and too we are seeking repre­
sentation on the board of trustees. 
We are the logical guardians of this 
Carnegie trust and must rise to the 
occasion with our moral support at 
least. Every alumnus and alumna in 
the Pittsburgh district and ‘from out- 
of-town should be on the campus! 
every day during our week of celebra­
tion. We must be out 100 per cent 
for the alumni banquet in order that 
wo make the right impression on our 
guests.
This year the banquet will be held 
on tho campus in keeping with the 
democracy of Tech. Students will act 
in the capacity of waiters and all the 
entertainment will be by students and 
alumni. The expense of the whole af­
fair has been (figured as low as pos­
sible—a full 100 per cent cheaper than 
laat year, but a »bigger and bettor 
banquet.
Remember the program is by stu­
dents, tho host of its kind over ar­
ranged on the campus. Just recollect 
I ho Varsity Clan banquet and then 
»end In a check for reservations.
Tho banquet will start at G:30 sharp 
in the Langley Laboratory gym. Wo 
will act as hosts to tho Senior Classes, 
TruHtoo» and distinguished guests. 
Only 500 placo» arranged', and all 
ticket» must bo purchased before May 
JO. fSond in your chock now to G. L. 
Tilbrook, treasurer. Assessment, 
three dollars por plate.
The Connnlttoo 1» counting on you. 
Don’t disappoint them.
DO YOUR HIT NOW!
THE
SECRET
OF
YOUTH
Lies in Attending
REUNION
Ponce de Leon and all others 
failed because they had no
REUNIONS 
TO ATTEND
Campus Week, May 12,13 and 14, * 
are YOUR Days
PLAN NOW 
BE HERE
*!? for *
*5‘ Alumni Banquet, Thurs., May 12. *
ALUMNI FACULTY SENIORS
of the Division of Science and En­
gineering: Don’t forget Smoker,
April 2S, in Union.
HE USES HIS HEAD! DO YOU? *
*:• A woodpecker pocks *
Out a groat many »pock»
Of Bawdust when building a hut. *
Ho works lllce a digger ?
To make tho hole bigger.
NpLO sore if his cutter won't cut. »1*
•I* Ho ne’er gives a peep for plans *:• 
•I* That are cheap,
•!* But there’s one thing can rightly ?> 
be said— *:?
?!• The whole excavation 
Has this explanation:
He builds it by using I-IISHEAD! *
* —Spunk. *
PROVE THAT YOU DO BY * 
BEING HERE MAY 12-13-14. <*
•I* Make Your Banquet Reservation *>
? Before May 6. *
CLANNEWS
CLANS NOTICE
Plan Your Meeting for May 12.
It is very important that your clan 
have as many representatives as pos­
sible back at Tech for Campus Week. 
It is going to be a great "get-together” 
for Tech alumni. Those who cannot be 
here for May 12 try and arrange 
your monthly meeting for that date. 
This will give the clans and the 
alumni banquet held here on this 
date a chance to exchange "good 
wishes’’ and "We are all for you, 
Tech’’ propaganda. Have as many of 
your members here as possible. It 
will be the greatest week in the his­
tory of Tech.
Make it here by May 12 or hold 
your meeting on that date.
TOWN MAY 12
(Continued From Page One.) 
wall, iSenior arch., and they will try 
to arrange for a truck to be put at 
your class’s disposal. Every student 
and every alumnus in town who has 
a machine is asked to volunteer to 
carry as many of their friends as they 
can accommodate and join the 
"peerade.” Special banners will be 
supplied as many of the cars as pos­
sible.
The most important part of the plan 
is that every one come to the Vodville 
Show in costume. It can be the one 
you wore to the last masquerade you 
attended or an old Arts Ball costume 
or any other rig you can think of. 
Plebes can wear their Poverty Day 
outfits and the prize winners will 
have a special place in the parade. As 
an incentive to good costumes the 
alumni have offered -to give eight or 
10 prizes for the best costumes in the
STUDENT SUPPLIES
Fountain Pens, popular makes, $1.50 
up; Evorsharp and similar Pencils, 
50c up. Watorman’n Best Ink, Ink 
Tablets, "Tech" Recognition and Soal 
Pins, Rings, Frat Jewelry, Stationery, 
etc., Danco Programs, Favors, Sta­
tionery plain and monogrammed; 
Fountain Pen Repairing.
SINGER PEN 8 GIF! SHOP
FIRST FLOOR JENKINS ARCADE
St. Paul’s Cathedral
Fifth Avc. and Craitf St.
. MuMll '1:30, 8:00, 0:00, 10:00 and 11:00 A. M. on Sunday» & Holy Days 
Vesper» on Sunday .'it 7:30 P. M. 
Pew 53, Middle AIslo, for Toch 
Students.
mmmmmmmnmmummmmmumt 
| FIRST CHURCH OF 
CHRIST (Scientist) 
CLYDE STREET
Services Sunday 
11 u. in. and 8 p. m.
8 Wednesday Testimony
8 Meeting 8 p. m.
« Sunday School 11 a. m.
H All Are Cordially Invited 
To Attend, 
jmmmmummmmmmummmnmw I
Third United 
Presbyterian Church
DR. HUGH B. SPEER, Pastor. 
Shady and Northumberland Avenues. 
Graded Sunday School, 10:00 A. M. 
Preaching Services, 11:00 A. M. and 
8:00 P. M.Young People’s Service, 7:00 P. M. 
Brief and Warm-Hearted Messages 
A cordial wolcomo to all.
Opposite Library 
ttmttmsmssimttsmmsmmmmtmmtti
PITTSBURGH CLAN
On Wednesday evening, April 20. 
the Pittsburgh Clan promoted a very 
successful Musical Concert in the 
Bellevue High school under the aus­
pices of the Lambskin Club. About 100 
Tech musicians were present and the 
evening was full of pep which always 
exists wli/en Techites are around. A 
fine dinner was tendered the students 
and after the concert a dance was 
given them in the gymnasium of the 
high school.
A similar concert will be held in 
Crafton auditorium on Wednesday, 
May 4, at 8:15 p. m. After the con­
cert a dance will be given the stud­
ents in the auditorium.
The next meeting of the Pittsburgh 
Clan will be held on Thursday. May 
5 at 12:15 p. m. in Kaufmann & Baer’s 
store, eighth floor. Everybody out— 
very Important meeting.
MAKE RESERVATIONS EARLY
Women—Make dormitory reserva­
tions at once with Miss Margaret Grif­
fin, care Margaret Morrison Division.
Men—Make dormitory reservations 
at once with Dean A. W. Tarbell.
This being the greatest week in the 
history of Tech you will want to 
spend all your time on the Campus. 
You cannot afford to miss a single 
event on the program. To be with all 
your buddies and see all the happen­
ings make the Campus your home 
while back at {Tech. In order that 
everyone be accommodated please 
make your reservations at once.
Make Tech Campus your home for 
THREE DAYS.
Tho students of the Electrical En­
gineering. department are working on 
an electric signl to advertise Campus 
Week down by the Institute. Fleish­
man» is the chief pusher and is in 
charge of tho electrical work of the 
Circus.
MARGARET MORRISON ALUMNAE MEMBERSHIP CONTEST 
Members, 428; Paid Up, 224; Per Cent, 55.
CLASS STANDING
Class Members Paid up PerCent Rank1909.................................................. 40 28 70 2
1!>10................................................. 29 11 38 10
191 1................................................ 48 17 35 12191 2................................................ 40 16 40 9
191 3................................................ 14 5 35 11
1914................................................. 30 13 43 ' 7
191 5.............................................. 37 24 64 3
191 6............................................... 28 12 42 8
191 7................................................ 35 21 60 5
191 8................................................ 38 23 61 4
191 9................................................ 41 31 75 1
192 0................................................ 48 23 45 6
Where is your class in this list? Are you proud of its rank? If you are
anxious to see its standing advanced, call up your Class Representative and 
find out who the delinquents are so you can urge them to pay up. Personal 
work is what counts. Tell them aljout the good times we have at our monthly 
meetings; tell them about the Tartan and the Alumnus; tell them about the 
Campus Week reunions and try to convince them that it is worth the money. 
Get busy NOW. There is only a short time to work. Returns must be in by May 10th.
A Picnic Supper is scheduled for Saturday, May 14th, at which the class 
having the highest average will be the guests of honor. Members -of the 
losing classes will prepare and serve the eats. So it will be a grand reunion 
for all Margaret Morrison alumnae.
Will you be a GUEST or a WAITRESS? It’s up to YOU!
CLASS REPRESENTATIVES :Hattie G. Merrill, ’09 Ruth Welty, ’15
Edith Scott Glenn, ’10 Nellie Green, ’16
Helen Stewart, ’11 Gail V. Sellers, ’17
Ruby Wellings, ’12 Charlotte Tross, ’18
Eleanor Law Douglass, ’13 Elinor Mellon, ’19
______Edna Stoebner Luley, ’14_______________Mary Cummings, ’20
BELLEFIELD 
SHOE REPAIR
FINEST WORK
Oakland Savings & 
Trust Company
Member Federal 
Reserve System
Capitol - - . $200,000.00
Surplus nnd Undivided 
ProfltB - - - $300,000.00
Deposits, Over $4,000,000.00
Safe Deppsit Boxes for j 
Rent^jvHARRY’S
!:| Do You Dance? I,i rii
Dancing Lesson | 
ii Class and Private | 
k JACQUE’S DANCING I 
ACADEMY 
Craig aiul Forbes jj
RESTAURANT 
AND LUNCH ROOM
Best Moals at reasonable prices 
3710 FORBE8 STREET OAKLAND
Tech Barber Shop
Nearest to Tech 
Cor. Craig and Forbes g 
Fred Fargel, Proprietor | 
Nearest and Best Laun- | 
dry Agency
n
Rivers: _
Evanston-Gliicnyo 
Summer Session 
¦On the Shore of Lake MicMgan-ïetiÉiÉiiÉ&âësfor nmn unii wonum. Urinyilioil oxauralon* tolnUrut. Ina tMiiitn itiiur Chinava. Iwaturn#. oonaorU. r»clt»l» ¦uni ilrnmatla iiorliiriimnoo« on III» Compii*, tue RUi.Ltat: ili» UBRMli AWT»—Opiinio» U»>lln*
iteEsaaer», »UiK-ntntV U»i\ll*r», •murlnlfOilniit». lirlm-limU.
0aarsiw.var,',~'"...
jìlìm.fe 310.BU00ton,
æÂÂXïrfciiï:ami for nrofoMlotial «ml , aiiiatulir «vnil.-r« mul
COURSES OPEN MONDAY, JUNE 27,‘l9 = lFor book of Canum» vKitn nnd ilctntlod iloacrlplion of
SOMETHING NEWTECH
SHOE REPAIRING SHOP 
Let Us Put Your Spring Shoes. 
In Shapo.N
eat work 
EAR THE CAMPUS 
4523 FORBES Near Craig
WE’VE FITTED FEET
OVER FIFTY YEARS
P.Ü1DEBUEHL&S0N
SHOES AND HOSIERY 
PENN AND FRANKSTOWN
THE WONDERFUL now styles 
of Men’s STETSON OXFORDS 
aro Impressing those who have 
seen them with vlsiblo elation.
CORDOVAN.
TAN CALF 
BLACK CALF 
TAN KID
BLACK KID THE PAIR
