lume 85, issue 20Carnegie Mellon University, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania18 March 1991
Mehrabian appoints new GSIA dean
University of Texas associate business dean joins Carnegie Mellon faculty July 1
lu DAVID LADEK
Tartan News Editor
Carnegie Mellon President Robert 
Mehrabian has named Robert S. Sullivan 
as the new dean of the Graduate School 
of Industrial Administration.
Sullivan will assume the post on July
1. Sullivan is currently the associate 
dean for Academic and Research Affairs 
at the University of Texas at Austin’s 
Graduate School of Business.
“GSIA is one of the 10 best business 
schools in the country and is recognized
for its innovative approach to business 
education,” said Mehrabian. “I believe 
Robert Sullivan is ideally suited to build 
on this tradition of excellence in teach­
ing and research and to develop new 
linkages between GSIA and our engi­
neering and computer science schools, as 
well as the business community.”
The committee that directed the na­
tionwide search for a new dean was 
chaired by the John M. Olin Professor of 
Political Economy and Public Policy, 
Allan Meltzer.
“We looked at more than 200 candi-
"I believe Robert Sullivan is ideally suited to 
build on this tradition of excellence in teach­
ing and research." 
— Robert Mehrabian, 
president
dates and actively interviewed more than son with just the right attributes to be 
a dozen,” said Meltzer. “[Sullivan] im- dean of GSIA.”
pressed us as the most outstanding per- Sullivan has a doctorate in operations
management from Pennsylvania State 
University. He also, has a master’s from 
Cornell University, and his undergradu­
ate degree in mathematics is from Bos­
ton College.
Sullivan said that his new position 
carries with it “unparalleled opportuni­
ties to build on strategic alliances within 
Carnegie Mellon and with industry to 
address the most critical issues facing 
organizations.
“No other business school in the nation 
can better build such alliances and bridge 
Please see DEAN, page 3
•R.E.M.’s new album combines 
old sounds with new.
See page Lll.
There will be no Tartan for the 
next two weeks due to spring 
break. The Tartan will be back 
on Monday, April 8.
Freshman guard Steven 
Lightfoot goes for a layup during 
Navy’s OT win over Theta Xi, 
See page 13.
THE TARTAN
The brothers and pledges of Kappa Sigma performed In the Neighborhood during Greek Sing 1991 on Friday night at the Soldiers and Sailors 
Memorial Hall. The act placed second in the fraternity division of the competition. See page LI.
Professors 
win Doherty, 
Ryan awards
By MICHAEL COLAIANNE
Tartan Staffwriter
Professor Emeritus Lawrence 
Carra has been awarded the 1991 
Robert S. Doherty Prize, and 
Professors John Schaeffer and 
Margaret Clark have been named 
as the recipients of the William 
H. and Frances S. Ryan Teaching 
Award for 1991.
The Doherty Prize was estab­
lished in 1988 to “recognize con­
tributions to the development, 
implementation, and evaluation 
of educational programs at all 
levels, and to the creation and 
maintenance of an environment 
that fosters excellence in teach­
ing,” according to the official de­
scription of the prize.
All current and retired full-time 
employees of Carnegie Mellon are 
eligible to be nominated for the 
Doherty Prize. Nominations go 
directly to the Nomination Com­
mittee, consisting of six to 10 full 
professors appointedto staggered 
two-year terms by the Dean’s 
Council. The committee receives 
proposals for nomination and se-
lects from them about 10 people 
each year. The committee, having 
unrestricted access to the relevant 
departmental, college, and Uni­
versity records, then prepares an 
extensive portfolio on each nomi­
nee and submits nominations to 
the Selection Committee by Feb­
ruary 1.
Only one Doherty Prize is 
awarded each year, although for 
the first two years, two were 
awarded because of the “previous 
unavailability of an equivalent 
form of recognition.” Professor 
Carra is the fifth recipient of the 
award.
The William H. and Frances S. 
Ryan Teaching Award, the pur­
pose of which is “to encourage and 
to recognize unusual devotion and 
effectiveness in undergraduate 
teaching,” as stated in its official 
description, is annually awarded 
to qualified, full-time, tenure- 
track faculty of Carnegie Mellon: 
Proposals for nominations for the 
award go to the Selection Comt 
mittee each October. Student rec: 
ommendations, student evalua7 
Please see AWARDS, page 3
Meeh rabinpon tnsswi pbaGSaIn GonA oi accident
By KATIE CULBERTSON
Tartan Editor-in-Chief
John Lynn, a 1990 graduate of the 
Carnegie Mellon Math Department, died 
early Friday morning at Presbyterian 
University Hospital in Oakland. The 
Allegheny County Coroner’s office de­
termined the cause of death to be an 
accident resulting in blunt-force trauma 
to the head.
On February 25, Lynn fell off the roof 
of the porch at his Shady side home. Al­
though no one witnessed the fall, Sean 
Hollis, a former CMU student and friend, 
said that Lynn, who had been drinking 
prior to the accident, “probably just 
slipped.” Lynn had gone out to the roof to 
check on something, Hollis said, and was
“He was the kind of guy everybody liked. He 
got a lot out of life. ”
— John Bewick, 
Sig Tau brother
discovered on the ground a few minutes 
later by a friend who went out to check on 
him.
“He didn’t jump,” said Hollis, noting 
the cable on the ground that Lynn had 
apparently grabbed for support.
Lynn remained in a coma until his 
death and never regained consciousness. 
The hospital listed midnight Friday as 
the unofficial time of death.
Lynn, originally from Ft. Washington, 
Md., managed Bubba’s Sandwich Shop 
in Pittsburgh, while residing in 
Shadyside. Lynn is/survived by his par­
ents and two sisters.
While a student at CMU, Lynn was a 
member of Sigma Tau Gamma, where 
his brothers referred to him as “Buzz.” 
He was involved in CMtTs ROTC pro­
gram, although he dropped out before
graduating, and he worked at the CMU 
bookstore and in Instructional Technol­
ogy.
As a Sig Tau brother, Lynn served as 
the house’s recording secretary in the 
fall and spring of 1987, as well as pur­
chasing agent in the spring of 1987, ac­
cording to senior technical writing major 
and Sig Tau brother Paul Shore. “He was 
well-liked and well-respected in the 
house,” said Shore.
“He was the kind of guy everybody 
liked,” said junior Sig Tau brother John 
Bewick, a mechanical engineering ma­
jor. Lynn participated in IM sports for 
his house, as well as booth. “He got a lot 
out of life,” added Bewick. In addition, he 
said, Lynn enjoyed playing pinball and 
Please see LYNN, page 3
me85,isu 20Car nr8 graar 
Carnegie Mellon alumnus John Lynn.
NSF grants CMU money for
Inside
Classifieds................
Comics......................
Diversions.................
Features....................
Forum.......................
Sports .......................
University Calendar 
Vox Populi................
•Jason McDonald suggests 
ideas for the provost search.
See page 11.
•ATO, Navy, and Sig Tau win 
IM basketball championships.
See page 13.
•Two CMU seniors win the 
Watson Fellowship.
See page L2.
new technology center
By MEGAN DIETZ
Tartan Assistant News Editor
The National Science Founda­
tion (NSF) has presented Carn­
egie Mellon with an award which 
will be used to establish a new 
Science and Technology Center 
(STC) for Light Microscope Im­
aging and Biotechnology. The 
award is being given as a part of 
NSF’s three-year-old STC pro­
gram.
The STC program, designed to
support large research projects 
spanning many different scientific 
disciplines, is headed at CMU by 
Professor D. L. Taylor of the bio­
logical sciences department.
According to Taylor, the center 
will benefit CMU in three ways. 
“First, we will have state of the 
art equipment and instrumenta­
tion that will be available to re­
searchers in the campus commu­
nity,” said Taylor. “Secondly, the 
center will enable us to initiate 
training programs in using the
technology. We will inititate new 
courses. Finally, it is going to help 
increase outside support for un­
dergraduate and graduate stu­
dent programs.”
The new STC is now, Taylor 
said “evolving out of the existing 
Center for Fluorescents Research 
(CFR).”
CFR scientists have been 
studying living cells through the 
use of fluorescent reagents, and 
the STC will continue this work.
Please see NSF, page 4
...16
,.L6
Lll
..LI
.....M
...13
L16
L16

---------------------------------------------------

2The Tartan • Carnegie Mellon • 18 March 1991
THIS JUST INIII
Iraqi instability concerns Bush
; TROIS-ILETS, Martinique (DJ) — 
While President Bush reiterated his 
concern about instability inside Iraq, both 
he and French President François 
Mitterrand said they weren’t interested 
in getting involved militarily.
Bush again asserted that a formal 
cease-fire with Iraq won’t be possible as 
long as the Iraqi army is using helicopter 
gunships to suppress civilian uprisings 
against Saddam Hussein. But the 
President also said that he isn’t “trying 
to impose a solution inside Iraq,” and he 
declared that he won’t let American 
troops get bogged down in long-term 
deployment there.
Mitterrand, who had sent troops to 
participate in the war to drive Iraq out of 
Kuwait, was more blunt. After holding
talks here with Bush, the French leader 
said he considered his troops’job “done” 
with the liberation of Kuwait. He sug­
gested that French forces won’t get in­
volved in the current violence inside Iraq 
unless the United Nations Security 
Council passes new resolutions autho­
rizing them to do so.
Both presidents appeared to be trying 
to warn Iraq that its pariah status is 
likely to continue as long as it violently 
crushes internal dissent. But they also 
seemed to signal that, as much as they 
would like to see Saddam Hussein over­
thrown, they don’t intend to get directly 
involved in trying to help the Iraqi dissi­
dents. Bush specifically said he didn’t 
want to “play into the hands” of Iran, 
which is accusing the U.S. of angling to
keep its troops in the Persian Gulf region 
to control events there.
Bush and Mitterrand apparently spent 
most of their two-hour meeting on this 
French Caribbean island discussing how 
to get talks moving to settle the dispute 
between Israel and the Palestinians. 
Bush ruled out talks with the Palestine 
Liberation Organization for now, saying 
that the U.S. intends to pursue discus­
sions with independent Palestinians from 
the Israeli-occupied West Bank. Secre­
tary of State James Baker opened those 
talks this week.
Bush didn’t flatly rule out talks with 
the PLO, but he made clear that he has 
little interest now in the immediate af­
termath of the PLO’s strong support for 
Iraq during the war over Kuwait.
Exxon settles claims from Valdez spill
; WASHINGTON (DJ) — Exxon Corp. has agreed to pay 
$900 million to settle all federal and state civil claims result­
ing from the Exxon Valdez oil spill in March 1989. 
y The settlement also has a so-called reopener clause under 
which Exxon may have to pay an additional $100 million for 
natural resource damages not currently foreseen.
\ Exxon and its Exxon Shipping unit have agreed to pay a 
tfrtal criminal fine of $100 million, of which $50 million will go 
t£) the U.S. Treasury and the other $50 million will go to the 
State of Alaska as restitution for restoration of environmen- 
damage.
Under the consent decree that will be filed for the approval 
? a federal judge in Alaska, Exxon Corp. will pay the $900 
lillion in civil damages over more than 10 years.
It hasn’t yet been determined exactly what restoration 
rojects will be started with the money.
The money will be spent by a group of six trustees, split 
evenly between representatives of the federal government and 
the State of Alaska. Of the total, $135 million is committed to 
pay for past expenses such as cleanup and scientific research.
Exxon has already spent $2.2 billion to clean up Prince 
William Sound and the Gulf of Alaska.
Both the criminal and civil settlements require court ap­
proval.
According to the plea agreement, the Exxon Shipping unit 
will plead guilty to three misdemeanors, and the parent 
company .will plead guilty to one.
Exxon Corp. will plead guilty to a misdemeanor count of 
violating the Migratory Bird Treaty Act. The Exxon Shipping 
Co. unit will plead guilty to misdemeanor counts of violating 
the Clean Water Act, the Refuse Act, and the Migratory Bird 
Treaty Act.
Senate grants $850M 
in aid for Turkey, Israel
WASHINGTON (DJ) — The Senate 
Appropriations Committee approved 
$850 million in emergency aid to Tur­
key and Israel as part of two spending 
bills covering the initial costs of the 
Persian Gulf crisis and increased ben­
efits for veterans of the war with Iraq.
Totaling more than $47.8 billion, the 
back-to-back measures rely heavily on 
promised contributions from allied na­
tions. The $200 million for Turkey and 
the $650 million for Israel, however, 
would take the form of cash grants 
from the Treasury.
In both cases, the new foreign assis­
tance would be written off as an emer­
gency related to the war; the Bush 
administration used the same power to 
circumvent budget limits and appease 
influential lawmakers at home. Wheat 
farmers, facing low prices, won a provi­
sion to lift the current $450 million cap 
on the Agriculture Department’s Ex­
port Enhancement Program, and the 
White House agreed to count all of an 
added $150 million for unemployment 
insurance costs as an emergency re­
sulting from the weak economy.
The larger of the two measures, $42.6 
billion, most directly represents the 
costs of the war. Faced with cutbacks in 
the future, military contractors have 
used the legislative debate to maneu­
ver for advantage. The committee
stripped an estimated $316.7 millidn 
added by the House for Raytheon Co' 
missile procurement and research con­
tracts, but senators were more sympa­
thetic to those interests that tried to 
protect what had been promised in prior 
Pentagon budgets.
In a standoff with Defense Secretary 
Dick Cheney, Grumman Corp. man­
aged to preserve language ordering thè 
Defense Department to proceed witli 
remanufacturing work on the F-14 
fighter.
Domestic accounts are confined to t&e 
second, $5.24 billion measure, which 
supplements prior appropriations for 
the fiscal year ending Sept. 30 and in­
cludes $550 million in pay and benefits 
for Gulf veterans as well as related 
child-care costs.
Separately, senators added $101 mil­
lion to help stabilize the vaccine-injury 
claim fund, and among the regional 
provisions were those for flooded 
Northwest greenhouse operators and 
the Buffalo Bill Dam in Wyoming. The 
Maritime Administration would receive 
a $20 million increase to upgrade, its 
reserve fleet for military sealift opera­
tions. And for Maine, the home state of 
Majority Leader George Mitchell, the 
bill sets aside nearly $1.1 million for 
potato farmers and University of Maine 
science research.
2eo0i,s Uevt, s8yye5, P5rb
MOSCOW (AP) •— Soviet President Mikhail S. Gorbachev 
signaled to embattled Iraqi leader Saddam Hussein that he will 
get no support from Moscow as he tries to overcome rebels 
seeking his downfall.
Gorbachev, at the opening of talks with Secretary of State 
James A. Baker III, declared: “Let the Iraqi people themselves 
take care of that.”
The Iraqi president built his war machine partly on Soviet 
help. But Gorbachev disapproved of the occupation of Kuwait 
and lent diplomatic support to the allied assault that reversed 
the invasion.
In a brief news conference, Gorbachev also said he hoped to set 
a date for the postponed summit meeting with President Bush 
and hoped obstacles to implementing an arms control treaty 
could be cleared during Baker’s three-day visit.
“There should be progress, so we have to take care of that 
problem," Gorbachev said through an interpreter.
He greeted Baker in the Grand Kremlin palace and appeared 
to be in good spirits despite a concerted campaign by nationalist 
leaders and reformers to unseat him.
He rejected any suggestion he had turned his back on reform, 
saying those who levied such charges in America “just use one 
source of information.”
And yet, Gorbachev acknowledged he was having problems 
maintaining his perestroika program of reforming the Soviet 
economy.
Bush wants ‘fast track’ trade negotiations
WASHINGTON (DJ) — The 
Bush administration’s drive to 
expand free trade shows signs of 
slowing down on Capitol Hill.
Administration officials have 
laid out two major trade goals for 
this year: negotiation of a new 
free-trade agreement with Mexico 
and revival of the world trade 
talks that broke down last year 
amid U.S. and European bicker­
ing. At stake in this two-pronged 
effort, declares U.S. Trade Repre­
sentative Carla Hills, is nothing 
less than “the growth and expan­
sion of the world trading system.”
The problem for President Bush 
is that both trade negotiations 
require congressional coopera­
tion. And Congress is expressing 
considerable reservations about 
the Mexico discussions.
The battles over the two trade 
proposals are already well under 
way on procedural grounds. To 
prevent possible efforts by law­
makers to attach troublesome 
amendments once actual treaties 
are submitted, the administra­
tion is seeking to extend for two 
more years its current “fast track” 
negotiating authority, which ex­
pires in June. This authority 
guarantees that whenever trade 
pacts are submitted for approval, 
Congress holds a straight vote on 
them, without amendments.
“Let there be no mistake: There 
will be no real trade negotiations 
involving the United States if fast 
track is not extended,” Ambassa­
dor Hills told the Ways and Means 
Committee this week.
Officials argue that the value of 
exports to the economy has never 
been clearer. Almost all of last 
year’s sluggish economic growth 
came from a surge in exports, 
which grew 9 percent to $416 
billion. Further growth could help 
lift it from recession.
Proponents of the Mexico ac­
cord say that it would create—in 
conjunction with the free-trade 
agreement between the U.S. and 
Canada that was negotiated in 
1988—a unified North American 
market. “A secure market of this 
size would create an enormous 
competitive advantage for U.S. 
business vis-a-vis their Asian and 
European competitors,” says Sen. 
Max Baucus, the Montana Demo­
crat who chairs the Finance 
Committee’s trade panel.
But a broad range of interests
— including organized labor, en­
vironmentalists, human rights 
activists and immigration groups 
—are coalescing to block the pact. 
They argue that it would cause 
companies to flee the U.S. in an 
effort to escape high wages, 
tougher U.S. labor laws and en­
vironmental standards.
“Sure I want a Mexican trade 
treaty, but I’m not for negotiation 
of a treaty that doesn’t recognize
the legitimate rights of American 
workers and American jobs,” says 
House Majority leader Richard 
Gephardt of Missouri. “Will -the 
negotiation include issues such 
as workers’ rights, human rights, 
differences of environmental 
regulation?”
• The answer to that question 
may be at least a partial yes. In a 
letter to President Bush last week, 
Ways and Means Chairman Dan 
Rostenkowski (D-Illinois) and Fi­
nance Chairman Lloyd Bentsen 
(D-Texas) gave him until May 1 to 
provide an outline of his plans to 
deal with concerns over the envi­
ronment and workers’ rights in 
Mexico.
hiUs 150ics me85,siu 
Dow Jones, Inc.
9rue8, 1u 
Rick Quinn
Come see the Bucos take on the New York Mets 
in the first game of the new season 
Monday, April 8,1991
Ticket sales begin Monday, April 1 at Skibo Information 
Ticket price : $3.00 An AB Special Event 
Funded by your Activities Fee

---------------------------------------------------

The Tartan • Carnegie Mellon • 18 March 19913;
Mehher Maehbr inpeottoh swG SIeGr AdpohTI esehHE
AWARDS, from page 1
tions, teaching assistant evaluations, 
sample syllabi, and other criteria are 
considered in selecting the recipient of 
the Ryan Teaching Award. The Selection 
Committee narrows the candidate pool 
down to a group of two to 10 nominees 
and prepares a portfolio for each. Then a 
recommendation for the winner is sent 
to the president for final approval.
Professor Carra, born in Italy in 1909, 
is a graduate of both Harvard and Yale 
Universities, having received his MFA 
from Yale in 1937. The former head of 
;the Carnegie Mellon Drama Department, 
!C!arra came to the Carnegie Institute of 
Technology in 1946 and retired in 1977. 
!Along with the late Alexander Dean, he 
!is the co-author of what is considered the 
definitive text on directing, ‘The Funda­
mentals of Play Directing,” which is soon 
ito appear in its sixth edition. Since re­
tiring, Professor Carra has been a guest 
professor at the University of Southern 
¿¿ifomia, UCLA, NYU, and other uni­
versities, as well as recently working as 
creative consultant for Norman Lear 
Productions.
“Professor Carra is a consummate 
teacher of directing,” said Elisabeth 
Orion, head of the Drama Department, 
“[He has] remarkable talent... for com­
munication of the difficult techniques 
required of the director in the theater of 
today. His list of accomplishments in the 
theater world is formidable.”
Alumnus Charles Haid of Hill Street 
Blues fame, a former student of Carra, 
said, “When you see the work of John 
Pasquin, William Ball, Steven Bochco, 
the late John Michael Tebelack, and 
many, many directors who have shaped 
the direction of the American theater, 
television, and film in the last 30 years, 
you are seeing a little bit of dear Larry 
Carra in all of it.”
“I feel very good about it, because I’m 
getting some of the credit for where those 
people have gotten,” said Carra.
Professor Margaret Clark of the Psy­
"Professor Carra is a consummate teacher of 
directing. ”
— Elisabeth Orion, 
Drama Department head
chology Department earned her doctor­
ate degree from the University of Mary­
land and joined the Carnegie Mellon 
faculty in 1977. Since then, she has 
“earned the reputation as a deeply dedi­
cated and talented teacher,” according to 
Dr. David Klahr, head of the Psychology 
Department. “Her hallmarks are the 
meticulous care she brings to the design 
of her courses, ... the personal interac­
tion she insists on with each of her stu­
dents ... and ... the lengths to which she 
goes to make the whole process oflearning 
and thinking enjoyable.”
“She consistently receives high evalu­
ations and student praise is quite high,” 
said Dr. Edwin Fenton, co-director of the 
teaching center. Clark has even pub­
lished with some of her undergraduate 
students, an extremely rare thing to do.
Dr. Clark, last year’s winner of the 
Elliot Dunlap Smith Award, and recently 
a new mother, was unavailable for com­
ment.
Sharing the Ryan Teaching Award with 
Clark is Professor John Schaeffer, an 
assistant professor of mathematics. 
Schaeffer earned his doctorate from In­
diana University at Bloomington in 1983 
and has been on the faculty at Carnegie
Mellon since. “Schaeffer makes a valu­
able contribution to the undergraduate 
[mathematics] curriculum ... [and] is. 
truly one of the most successful and' 
popular instructors on campus,” read his 
recommendation letter from the Math 
Department.
“A lot of people here take teaching 
seriously,” said Schaeffer. “I’m really not 
much different from them. I try to stay 
focused. Part of the problem with [the 
large classes that I teach] is an admin­
istrative complaint. I can’t do it without 
lots of help. The TAs and department arè 
essential. In a class with 385 students, 
the homework isn’t graded by the pro­
fessor alone.”
The award for the Doherty Prize is a 
plaque and the prize for the Ryan Award 
is a crystal apple; both prizes include a 
monetary award. A reception for thé 
presentation of the awards to Carra, 
Schaeffer, and Clark will take place on 
April 25 in Skibo; it is open to the entire 
university community.
IVIehrabian appoints new dean
!DEAN, from page 1
cutting-edge scholarship with the 
needs of organizations,” he added.
At the University of Texas, 
¦Sullivan was co-director of the 
Center for Technology Venturing, 
director of the school’s Bureau of 
;Business Research, and associ­
ate director of its Manufacturing 
Systems Engineering Program.
Sullivan was on the committee 
that developed Texas’ Manufac­
turing Systems Engineering 
Program andlater co-directed the 
¡program. He also helped to design 
ithe school’s MBA and PhD pro­
grams. He has been active in the 
design of advanced curriculum 
programs for foreign universities, 
including the Instituto Techno- 
logicoy de Estudios Superiores in 
¦Monterrey, Mexico.
me85,isu DEAEN p8130m Ti3r,0evs 
New Dean of GSIA Robert Sullivan.
The first professor in the Man­
agement Department of the Texas 
business school to win both un­
dergraduate and graduate awards
for teaching excellence, Sullivan 
has numerous teaching awards, 
including the Joe D. Beasly Award 
for Excellence in Teaching.
Sullivan has written five books, 
and sits on the editorial boards of 
two academic journals, Interfaces 
and the Journal of Manufactur­
ing and Operations Management. 
He has received several research 
grants for the study of the 
manufacturing process. He also 
serves on the advisory board for 
the Manufacturing Systems Di­
vision of the National Science 
Foundation.
In the late 1960s, Sullivan 
served in the Peace Corps in 
Ethiopia, where he taught pro­
duction management, and applied 
his skills to famine and disaster 
relief projects.
Alumnus dies in accident
LYNN, from page 1
working on his computer.
“He grew plants,” said Sonja 
Weiner, Lynn’s girlfriend. “He 
saved some of his friends’ plants, 
too... and he was a great bread­
maker.” Weiner also remem­
bered her boyfriend’s commit­
ment to volunteer service — 
before his accident, he had just 
completed the training course 
at the Pittsburgh Literacy 
Council.
According to Shore, Lynn 
loved working on cars, although 
“he always had really bad luck 
with his cars,” Hollis said.
Because he had several out­
side interests, Lynn’s brothers 
agreed that he “wasn’t the best
student. But he got more out of 
life than more studious people/’ 
said Bewick. “He was really out­
going,” said Shore. “He loved 
hanging out:”
“What he really wanted to'do 
was become a high school math 
teacher,” said Bewick.
“He was an all-around great 
guy,” said Hollis, who roomed with 
Lynn for one year. “He was very 
helpful and was a lot of fun to be 
around.”
Lynn’s friends are doing all they 
can to handle the tragedy. “We’re 
just sticking together,” said Hollis. 
“We’re talking about him and 
telling funny stories.”
At the SigTau house, according 
to Bewick, brothers are collecting
money to send to Lynn’s par­
ents, who will designate a char­
ity and donate the money in 
their son’s name.
Friday night, Sig Tau dedi­
cated its Greek Sing show, 
Fiddler on the Roof, to Lynn, 
said senior biology major Chuck 
Esther, Sig Tau’s Greek Sing 
chair.
“He had a lot of respect for 
every body and from everybody,” 
said Weiner. “He was very, very 
caring — an amazing person. 
We love him.”
A memorial service for Lynn 
will be held Saturday at the 
Oxen Hill United Methodist 
Church in Oxen Hill, Md. at 
4:30 pm.
Carnegie Mellon in Brief
Red Whittaker will lecture
The next Soup and Substance lecture, entitled “Summits and 
Systems: Human and Robotic Adventures in the Great Outdoors,” 
will take place Wednesday from noon to 1 pm in the Wherrett Room.
Red Whittaker, principal resident scientist at the Robotics In­
stitute, will talk about outdoor adventures from his own mountain- 
climbing perspective, and speak of expeditions for field robots. 
Whittaker will also discuss the future of robotics and will include 
slides and a videotape in his presentation. Soup and beverages will 
be supplied. The Soup and Substance series is sponsored by the 
Division of Student Affairs.
Music Dept, to host Gounod 
Symposium this weekend
The Department of Music will host a Gounod Symposium Satur­
day and Sunday at the College Club in Oakland. The purpose of the
symposium is to bring together linguists, musicologists, librarians, 
philosophers, diplomats and listeners in order to study human 
relationships between musicians, the audience, scholars and the 
public.
Activities will include live musical performances and discussion, 
as well as a demonstration of an electronically synthesized orches­
tral performance. Charles Gounod, from whom the Gounod sympo­
sium gets its name, is the composer of the opera Faust, and the well- 
known Aye Maria.
The sessions will begin at 9 am and 1:30 pm on both days. The cost 
is $5 for each session. For ticket information, contact the Carnegie 
Mellon Music Concert Line at x2383, or the Institute for Gounod 
Studies at x2378 or 442-3360.
University libraries announce 
spring break operation hours
Spring break hours have been announced for the CMU libraries.
This Friday, and March 25 through March 29, Hunt Library,
Instructional Technology, and the Engineering and Science Library 
will be open from 8 am to 6 pm, while Mellon Institute will be open 
from 8:30 am to 5 pm.
This Saturday and Sunday, Hunt Library, Instructional Technol­
ogy and Mellon Institute will be closed. The Engineering and 
Science Library will be open from 9 am to 5 pm Saturday and noori 
to 5 pm Sunday. !
March 30 and 31, Mellon Institute will be closed. Hunt Library, 
Instructional Technology, and the E & S Library will be open from 
9 am to 5 pm March 30, and on regular hours March 31.
All four libraries will resume regular hours April 1.
Compiled by 
SAMANTHA KOSSMAN
Correction...
Jim Saxon, a sophomore.IM major, was incorrectly identified 
in last week’s page one photo. The photo was taken by Josh 
Freeman, The Tartan’s photo staff manager.
Walk-in Tutoring
Calculus 
Physics 
Chemistry 
Academic Writing
8-11 pm
WeH5403WeH5427
WeH5205WeH5205WeH5427
The Right Place To Turn
Sponsored by Counseling and Student Development Center, Division of Student Affairs
SUMMER
I
THE HOUSING OFFICE IS LOOKING FOR 
STUDENTS INTERESTED IN WORKING 
FULL-TIME AND PART-TIME OVER THE 
COMING SUMMER.
sO
WE CURRENTLY HAVE FULL-TIME 
POSITIONS AVAILABLE FOR OFFICE 
ASSISTANTS, FACILITIES CREW 
ASSISTANTS, AND PRE-COLLEGE 
COUNSELORS. PART-TIME DESK 
ATTENDANT POSITIONS ARE ALSO 
AVAILABLE.
APPLICATIONS ARE CURRENTLY 
AVAILABLE IN THE HOUSING OFFICE.
i
APPLICATIONS WILL BE ACCEPTED UNTIL 
ALL POSITIONS ARE FILLED. REVIEW OF 
APPLICATIONS WILL BEGIN MARCH 15.

---------------------------------------------------

4The Tartan • Carnegie Mellon • 18 March 1991
Lead the Crowd
dTH poEnA pbaiI Iw rtRAltmann pushes for athletic 
facility changes, improvements
NSF, from page 1
According to Provost Angel G. Jordan, 
“Carnegie Mellon’s Science and Tech­
nology Center is built on the strength 
of... Taylor and his colleagues in the 
fluorescence center.... The STCs offer 
the research community a significant 
new machanism to take a longer-term 
view of science and explore better and 
more effective ways to educate stu­
dents.”
According to Taylor, the new STC 
will build light microscopes to detect 
and measure basic chemical and mo­
lecular properties of living cells and 
tissues.
The center will also develop new 
photochemical, biological, and fluores­
cent reagents which, when used in 
conjunction with the new equipment, 
will provide insight into cell and tissue 
structures and functions in the human 
body as well as in other organisms.
CMU’s new STC is one of 25 that 
have received NSF funding to date. 
The first 11 of these began operating in 
early 1989.
CMU’s award was activated on 
February 1,1991, but Taylor estimates
that it will take “about two years to 
establish all of the programs and reach 
a steady state.”
According to Taylor, the STC will 
“also include new research relations 
with such places as West Virginia 
University, the University of Pitts­
burgh, Allegheny General Hospital, 
West Penn Hospital, the Pittsburgh 
Cancer Institute, and our own 
Supercomputer Center.”
These new research relationships 
will consist of “research collaboration 
and training.”
Throughout all this collaboration, 
though, the CMU STC will maintain 
its own identity.
Said Dr. Sonja Sperlich, manager of 
the NSF’s Office of Science and Tech­
nology Centers, “The Light Microscope 
Imaging and Biotechnology Center 
will advance basic biological research 
by developing an invaluable, new re­
source — user-friendly microscopy 
workstations. Owing to this close re­
search and instrument-development 
relationship in an interdisciplinary 
academic environment, this center will 
be unique in the world.”
By JASON McDONALD
Tartan Assistant Sports Editor
The issue of problems with Carnegie 
Mellon’s athletic facilities is on its way to 
the Vice-President’s Student Advisory 
Committee (VPSAC), thanks to an ini­
tiative by SCS Senator Erik Altmann, a 
member of Student Senate’s Campus 
Affairs Committee. According to 
Altmann, “I solicited issues in my con­
stituency that CAC might take up. Sev­
eral complaints trickled in about the 
gym, more than any other specific is­
sue....”
Altmann used an e-mail posting to 
org.cs.general to get student reactions 
and got 19 responses to form his list of 
complaints. After compiling the students’ 
grievances, he arranged a March 4 
meeting with Carnegie Mellon Athletic 
Director John Harvey to discuss the 
problems.
“John was willing to talk everything 
over, but I came away with little by way 
of promised action items,” said Altmann. 
“My impression was that all the prob­
lems were either someone else’s fault or 
due to lack of funds.”
Cleanliness and general inadequacy of 
facilities was the subject of most com­
plaints in Altmann’s survey, but several 
other issues drew their fair share of 
criticism.
Damaged equipment, ventilation of the 
weight room, problems with access to the 
pool, and availability of facilities for 
activities other than varsity athletics 
were other major issues that students 
felt were important.
Harvey attributed many of the clean­
liness problems to ABM’s service. For 
example, one of the ABM employees as­
signed to the gym has been unable to 
work due to an injury, and ABM hasn’t 
been able to find a replacement.
However, according to Harvey, “An 
ABM representative was shown the con­
ditions, so maybe something will hap­
pen.”
The issue of pool access ties into an 
inadequate amount of rec-swim hours, a 
lack of qualified lifeguards, and lack of 
publicity for the existing recreational
swim hours.¦•IThe problem with ventilation in the 
weight room will be addressed by buying 
fans and putting screens on the windows, 
so they can be opened.
Harvey also addressed the issue.of. 
funding in his meeting with Altmann.. 
According to Harvey, most funding is 
directed toward the University Center 
project, so “renovation of the athletic 
facilities in the next six or seven year^ js 
unlikely.”
In fact, a renovation project estimated 
at between six arid seven million dollars 
was tabled one month before it was 
scheduled to begin.
According to Altmann, the next step 
will be to take the problems and some 
recommendations to VPSAC.
Altmann seems optimistic about ¿e 
administration’s attitude toward this 
study of facilities.
“The chair of CAC [junior IM major 
Hyun Shin] mentioned some particulars, 
to [Vice President for Enrollment] Bill, 
Elliott, who was apparently pretty con-, 
cerned,” he said.
WEST PENN DENTAL GROUP
Oakland Office
The Photo Editor is an Editorial Board member 
responsible for all photography that appears in the paper. 
Photographic experience is not necessary, but is a plus. 
Interested? Call x2111 and leave a message for Tom or Katie.w fPAP2Pxh xk 
wdPd 2P9l.TFwh Dxd
No Experience Necessary.
Production. An excellent opportunity to:
• Work behind the scenes at The Tartan
• Learn desktop publishing skills
• Shape the look of our ads
• See your work in print
Working production is not a big time committment, and it's a lot of fun.
If you are interested or want more 
information, contact Jenn Forbes at 
The Tartan office (Skibo 50) X2111.THETARTAN
MÓTT'S
SINGLE - SERVE JUICE DIVISION
CONTEST WINNER
of the
FREE TRIP TO THE BAHAMAS!
Featuring—
Dr. Alex Lowy
S 5imiv,3u siiv ev 
.oiv0vC FrCrL0vi
3708 FIFTH AVE., SUITE 519
’wm5ess c5ea DO03X5ivts Kesy0,r3G681-2115
’Dr33 neXruHGFREE EXAM AND CONSULTATION WITH THIS AD
• FAMILY DENTISTRY - NO EMERGENCIES REFUSED •
• WHITENING • BONDING • WISDOM TEETH-
NPwfnPDoiSAyyy 
,n abn IFn RioInG ,DSP
Unibed Way
(Third from the left)
Susan Scandale
2nd Year Graduate Student, 
Finance (GSIA)
Susan will be graduating in May
We are looking for someone to lead
Tartan Photography.

---------------------------------------------------

The Tartan • Carnegie Mellon • 18 March 19915
Student Senate Minutes
Meeting
caIled to STUDENT
order at SENATE' _
8:04 pm.
Senators Present: Altmann 
(09), Barnes (H&SS), Blake 
(OFA), Chien (GSIA), Dauter- 
mann (CIT), Dean (CIT), DeRoss 
(MGS), Gelman (MCS), Ikeda 
(H&SS), Larson (CFA), Loofbour- 
r0\v (CIT), Moran (CIT), Moore 
(CIT) (late), Mueller (IM), Neigh­
bor (CFA), Newfield(MCS), Shin 
(H&SS), Strong (MCS), Yu 
(GSIA) (late).
Senators Absent: Austin 
(MCS), Crehan ÖH&SS), Huang 
(CFA), Hussein (CIT), Loomis 
(GSIA), Meek (H&SS), Wyatt 
(CIT).
Ex-Officios Present: Erikson 
(Treasurer), Rao (President), 
Evans (GC Representative), 
Nightwine (AB), Dean Witchner, 
Dean Murphy.
Special Business: New chair 
of AB is here and we need to 
confirm him as AB is an external 
committee of Senate. Eric 
Nightwine was elected to be the 
chair of AB. Hand vote: in the 
eyes of the chair: confirmed.
AB — Eric Nightwine: AB 
retreat to West Virginia was a
success. Started programming 
for the fall. AB has four new 
talent buyers who have met with 
the old chair. There are two fe­
males on the board.
Greek Council — Kriss 
Evans: Tentatively planned for 
April 6 is a Faculty Family Day. 
There will be games and fun. 
Greek Council is the combination 
of Panhell and IFC, it is not the 
same as IFC.
Student Affairs — Dean 
Witchner: Looking into the 
school’s insurance policy regard­
ing organizations’ property. See­
ing if Student Affairs is able to 
pay for something which costs less 
than the $1000 umbrella policy.
President — Kishore Rao: 
Provost search is in full swing. 
The candidates have been coming 
to town. Hopefully one will be 
chosen within the next few weeks. 
The Fifth Year Free program has 
been announced and it should be 
a two-week process. Perhaps a 
short interview for the finalists; 
the process is being worked out as 
we go along since this is the first 
year it’s being done. Mike Murphy 
and Katie Stannard are spending 
time on it, but there will be a 
steering committee to oversee it.
Students can be on that commit­
tee as well.
The goal is to allow students to 
have a more interdisciplinary 
education and allow for extra­
curricular activities as well. The 
target numbers: five current se­
niors and 10 current juniors from 
all five colleges: CIT, MCS, H&SS, 
CFA, and IM. One senior and two 
juniors from each.
Treasurer — Cliff Erickson: 
We have roughly $49,000 left. 
There is a rash of special alloca­
tions coming up. Be careful be­
cause Spring Carnival went over 
by $7,000 last year. Some are 
questioning what happens with 
some of the organizations’ money 
as it appears they might not be 
spending it as it was originally 
meant to be spent.
Chair—Chris Neighbor: Key 
cards are in, but they’re back at 
the office.
Campus Affairs — Hyun 
Shin: Proposal for the gym
problems will be available by next 
week, as will the report on the 
Shuttle/Escort service. Looking 
into: food services, specifically the 
food stand in Wean; dividing up 
smoking and non-smoking bet­
ter; and covered bicycle parking
FREE CATALOG
of Government Books
Send for your copy today!
Free Catalog
leI 37000 
Washington DC 20013-7000
Community Outreach Tax Assistance
offers seminars and group return preparation for businesses, farms, 
and individuals. IRS offices will 
give you more information.
9x2. WR pxNhf2 
Ph nYx Y..J2H
Famous U.S. Women's Ski Team Diet
f850vC ,Oi vev4sveU ecc sirsev ,Oi Nd2d YeaivQs w3y0vi 2!0 nira 
aia1i5s 8siX ,Oi “2!0nira“ X0i, ,e 3esi WR ye8vXs 0v ,Ue Uii!sd nOr,Qs 50CO,S 
WR ye8vXs 0v E- XrusH nOi 1rs0s ec ,Oi X0i, 0s mOia0mr3 ceeX rm,0ev rvX Urs Xio0siX 
1u r crae8s De3e5rXe yOus0m0rv isyim0r33u ce5 ,Oi Nd2d 2!0nirad he5ar3 ivi5Cu 
0s ar0v,r0viX ’oi5u 0aye5,rv,HG UO03i 5iX8m0vCd ”e8 !iiy “c833“ Sve s,r5or,0ev
S 1imr8si ,Oi X0i, 0s Xis0CviX ,Or, Urud P,Qs r X0i, ,Or, 0s irsu ,e ce33eU UOi,Oi5 
ue8 Ue5!V ,5roi3 e5 s,ru r, Oeaid
nO0s 0sV Oevis,3uV r crv,rs,0mr33u s8mmissc83 X0i,d Pc 0, Ui5ivQ,V ,Oi Nd2d 
YeaivQs 2!0 nira Ue83XvQ, 1i yi5a0,,iX ,e 8si 0,H T0CO,~ 2eV C0oi ue85si3c ,Oi 
srai 15ir! ,Oi Nd2d 2!0nira Ci,sd 9esi Ui0CO, ,Oi sm0iv,0c0mV y5eoiv Urud .oiv 
0c ue8Qoi ,50iX r33 ,Oi e,Oi5 X0i,sV ue8 eUi 0, ,e ue85si3c ,e ,5u ,Oi Nd2d YeaivQs 2!0 
nira f0i,d nOr, 0sV 0c ue8 5ir33u Xe Urv, ,e 3esi WR ye8vXs 0v ,Ue Uii!sd x5Xi5 
,eXrud nir5 ,O0s e8, rs r 5ia0vXi5d
2ivX ev3u 2ERdRR ’$ERd^R ce5 T8sO 2i5o0miG 4 ,e) 230a|80!V pdxdleI ER(V 
fiy,d WTV KruXivV Pf M(M(^d fevQ, e5Xi5 8v3iss ue8 Urv, ,e 3esi WR ye8vXs 0v 
,Ue Uii!sH limr8si ,Or,Qs UOr, ,Oi 2!0 nira f0i, U033 Xed / E&&R
A PUBLIC SERVICE MESSAGE FROM 
THE INTERNAL REVENUE SERVICE
When you don't know 
where to turn...
HELP*RNPfD“W^^4EE^^
w si5o0mi ec ,Oi Nv0,iX A7cru 
ec w33iCOivu De8v,u
“College Students Just Don’t Get A Summer Job Like This”
Campus Concepts publishes the 
most dynamic college student 
guide today. Each year hundreds 
of thousands of college students 
use the Unofficial Student Guide.
Campus Concepts is looking for 
aggressive, motivated individuals 
to join our team in Pittsburgh as
sales associates this summer. job p^yg^ irrepiaceable experience and
was financially rewarding as well.”
Don Johnson, Campus Concepts sales associate 
University of Kansas
A Campus Concepts sales associate soon leams a new range of 
self-confidence that lasts a lifetime. Plus the summer 
compensation of $4,000 to $5,000 makes a Campus Concepts 
summer just about the best internship you can find.
Campus Concepts will be at Carnegie Mellon for an information 
session Monday, March 18 from 5:00 pm to 7:00 pm in Skibo 
room 45. Interviews will be the following day in the Career 
Center, Warner Hall 19.
Stop by the Career Center and pick up one of our company 
brochures.
Campus Concepts
and overcrowding. Meeting 9 pm 
Monday in Senate Office.
Funding & Recognition — 
Terrel Dean & Brad Wyatt:
Two special allocations tonight. 
One of the typewriters went to 
AIME. Budget hearings this 
weekend. Senate and Baseball 
Club haven’t tinned in their bud­
gets yet.
Public Relations — Colin 
Crehan: Meet Thursday
Morewood Rec Room, 7 pm. 
Working on an ad campaign. 
Senate Happy Hour April 8, be­
fore elections, 7 to 9 pm: issue 
oriented.
After elections: letter to campus: 
This is Senate, this is our mis­
sion, this is what we do, etc. 
Perhaps a newsletter.
Senate social thing: on campus 
retreat type, but not exactly. If 
not very soon, then after elections. 
Has bulletin board been changed?
Rules — Stewart Barnes: 
New constitution not submitted 
this week, but given for your 
proofreading. It will be intro­
duced next week. Two pieces of 
legislation: to the bylaws. New 
bylaws before we vote on the con­
stitution.
New Business:
Special allocation: Scotch ‘N’ 
Soda: $800 for a cam-corder. 
Special allocation: AB Concerts: 
$8800 for Spring Carnival.
Greek Sing advertising: com­
plaints that we sponsored this. 
Poster doesn’t say sponsored by 
the Activities Fee. Moved to give 
it to Campus Affairs. Recom­
mended they form a special 
postering committee. Formed: 
Dale Newfield head. To suggest 
possible changes to the poster 
policy.
Proposal: to put the budgets in 
The Tartan so the students know 
where their money is going. Ev­
ery semester F&R is required to 
publish the budgets.
Friendly amendment: add The 
Student Union.
Suggestion to have them avail­
able at Hunt Library and Skibo. 
The cover sheet of the budget 
packet is printed in The Tartan. 
The proposal includes publishing 
the percentage of the total bud­
get.
General Discussion: Sugges­
tion to follow Robert’s Rules. Call 
The Student Union — one sena­
tor wants an apology regarding 
their recent poster.
There was an objection to
women-only events. Do we give 
an official reprimand? It was 
thought that this complaint is nit­
picking. There are men who be­
long to the Women’s Center, and 
it was only a slumber party.
Look into single sex events to 
see if it‘s a significant problem 
throughout the campus. This is 
not for Cliff to look into, but for 
Senate to deal with.
We should decide if organiza­
tions should be allowed to have 
these activities. Our Constitu­
tion states that discrimination is 
based upon membership, not 
events. Move to end discussion of 
the issue.
Announcements: There is a 
talk tomorrow at 4:30 pm—Vince 
Eirene. There is a van on Forbes
— it says “Stop the War” — a 
hideous sight. There will be an ad 
in The Tartan to get volunteers to 
phone prospective students to 
really consider coming here.
Breed Hall 4:30 pm tomorrow: 
US/Soviet relations. There are lots 
of cars parked all over the world, 
and this needs to be announced 
just as much as Eirene’s van needs- 
to be announced.
Meeting adjourned at 9:50 pm.
Submitted by Amy Blake.
Fresh homeade dough spun right before your eyes...
16” CHEESE PIZZA 
$2.99
Offer good Sunday thru Thursday
Original Hotclog Shop 
3901 Forbes Ave. Oakland
Phone 621 -045 3 V&Vj)
Offer not good for delivery
Now available Friday and Saturday— 
One 16” Pizza only $4.49
How do you respond to “Junk Mail”....?
When you “Mass-mail” your resume, that happens.
Automated Job Search 
with US-CareerNET
Tis8ai .ImOrvCi 2i5o0mis
6 .ay3eui5s sii rm,8r3 5is8ai
6 .Iyes85i ,e iay3eui5s vr,0evU0Xi
6 Devc0Xiv,0r3 OrvX30vC
6 .ay3eui5s mev,rm, ue8
6 he 5i¦im, 3i,,i5s
6 k833 ”ir5 ec sOeU0vCV ev3u $19.95
Dr33 rvX rs! ce5 ae5i 0vce5ar,0ev
1-800-FQCUS 1 1 24 O5sBXru
He's
He'sH/Prhip 
„«Cb'c Funky
and he's dancing 
out of control!
Doug Elkins 
Dance Company
• dd ds,u30s,0mr33u Xio030sOV 1eu0sO3u m58XiV rvX sar5,3u c3ra1eurv,d“
SnK. AP99wg. AxPD.
kTPd z 2wndV FwTDK WW z W(d
M pFV
.XXu nOir,5iV
DOr,Ora De33iCi 
n0m!i,sV $17
TO ORDER, 
CALL 355-0330.
Ne pas se pencher dehors! Danger de mort! 
Wildtollwut! Gefährdeter Bezirk! 
¡Peligro! ¡Alto voltaje!
Failure to understand these warnings 
may be hazardous to your health!
So join us for
. <i-Carnegie Mellon’s
I*1'
I»*Summer
Language Programs 
Abroad
and learn how to get along in
France, Germany and Spain.
Brochures and application forms in BH160 
Application Deadline: April 1

---------------------------------------------------

Valid at participating stores only. Not valid with any other offer. Prices 
may vary. Customer pays sales tax where applicable. Delivery areas 
limited to ensure safe driving. Our drivers carry less than $20.00. 
Our drivers are not penalized for late deliveries.
Valid at participating stores only. Not valid with any other offer. Prices 
may vary. Customer pays sales tax where applicable. Delivery areas 
limited to ensure sate driving. Our drivers carry less than $20.00. 
Our drivers are not penalized for late deliveries.
•(/>ÖZ <
••MeOÜ O Q.:
Valid at participating stores only. Not valid with any other offer. Prices 
may vary. Customer pays sales tax where applicable. Delivery areas 
limited to ensure safe driving. Our drivers carry less than $20.00. 
Our drivers are not penalized for late deliveries.
MyNND,D NPFD MgNNi 
FyS AyCPfyUi mPccgR
Dr33 NsH *ME4E©RR
Medium 1 Item Pizza$5.99
.Iy05is) (B(EB&E
Large Cheese Pizza$6.99
.Iy05is) (B(EB&E
W FiX08a W P,ia p0LLrs$9.99
.Iy05is) (B(EB&E
SHORT ON CASH? USE YOUR CAMPUS ACCOUNT!
Dining Serviere6 g0oi fea0veQs ue85 DFN Dray8s wmme8v, Pf v8a1i5
6 p3rmi ue85 e5Xi5
6 .v¦eu r Oe, rvX Xi30m0e8s fea0veQs p0LLrH
NOBODY DELIVERS BETTER.®
Ke85s) EE)RRra4W)RRra 28vd4nO85sd 
EE)RRra4()RRra k50d z 2r,d

---------------------------------------------------

Next Year
</>
y
5<if 
yfy lR
on your 
Meal Plan.
Next year you will be able to order Domino's Pizza with 
your Meal Plan as well as with Validine. There will be a 
contract allowance of $4.50. If you want to spend more, 
you can pay the difference in cash, with Validine, or a 
second meal of your own*. You and a friend can order 
together and use both of your meal plans just like 
Morepizza.
Domino's Hours of Delivery
ll:00am-2:00am Sunday-Thursday 
1 l:00am-3:00am Friday & Saturday
*w simevX air3 0s ecci5iX ev3u U0,O r
i.qoh Coea maeG
The Super Meal Plan is offered with 15 or 19 meals. For a little 
more money, than the regular meal plan, the Super Meal Plan 
allows you to use two meals in the same period. For ex­
ample, you can eat both breakfast and lunch on Saturday or 
Sunday instead of only once during the brunch period.
The Super Meal Plan will allow you to use two meals when 
ordering from Domino's. That will give you $9.00 of contract 
cash allowance to use toward your order.
Don't Miss Meals! The Super Meal Plan gives you more 
opportunities to use every meal, every week.
Dining Service

---------------------------------------------------

FORUM
DFf2 si5ois 8y
A month ago, Carnegie Mellon 
Dining Service announced that it 
planned to take several steps to 
meet its financial obligations by 
the end of the fiscal year.
; CMDS needs a lesson in priori­
tizing. The students come first, 
not the budget: CMU Dining 
Service, in its crunch to break even, 
is sacrificing services to students, 
as well as their convenience, nu­
trition, and pocketbooks.
The reasons behind the pinch 
include a projected revenue short­
fall, increased operating costs, and 
construction costs from the 
Highlander Cafe.
As a result, CMDS has cut staff 
and management, as well as hours 
of certain dining areas. Cutting 
staffhas resulted in poorly-stocked 
salad bars, uncarbonated drinks, 
and long cash register lines at 
peak meal hours. The reshuffling 
of hours hasn’t improved either. 
Morewood Gardens may be open 
all day from 11 am to 7 pm, but 
there’s not much in the way of 
selection. During the slower mid- 
afternoon hours, selection is so 
sparse that most students can only 
expect to come out with a soda, a 
bagel, and a piece of fruit, if they’re 
lucky. Longer hours mean nothing 
if adequate amounts of food aren’t 
available.
“We must do this rather than 
carry a deficit forward and annoy 
a lot more people,” Director of 
CMDS Jim Gurley told The Tar­
tan after announcing plans to cut 
some services and staff. Annoy 
people? Well, Mr. Gurley, you are 
doing a good job of that now.
Unforeseen costs are a problem, 
but cutting back services is not 
the way to deal with them. Accept 
them for now and plan for them in 
the future so they don’t happen 
again. Running a successful op­
eration cannot be determined from 
the balance sheet at the end of the 
year. No one wants to finish in the 
red. But anyone who takes pride 
in his or her work should realize 
that going over budget may be a 
necessary evil to preserve student 
services. It’s a matter of customer 
satisfaction, and right now, the 
customers — the students — are 
not satisfied.
Students need to be able to rely 
on university services, such as the 
Counseling Center, Student 
Health Services, and Dining Ser­
vice, to get them through the day. 
They should be able to walk into a
We offer our congratulations to 
the winners of the University’s 
two biggest teaching honors, the 
Robert Doherty Prize and the 
William H. and Frances S. Ryan 
Award.
The Doherty Prize, given for 
substantial and sustained contri­
butions to excellence in education, 
went to professor emeritus of 
Drama Lawrence Carra. The Ryan 
Awards for unusual devotion and 
effectiveness in teaching under­
graduates were given to professor 
Margaret Clark of Psychology and 
associate professor Jack Schaeffer 
of Mathematics.
At a university where students 
often complain that many profes­
sors put their research ahead of 
teaching, it is important to rec­
ognize those professors who com­
bine natural talent with dedica­
tion to become great teachers.
In academia, where the law of 
the jungle is publish or perish,
X0sryye0v,aiv,
cafeteria, select the food they 
want, pay for it, and at the end of 
the meal say that they had enough 
to eat, and got their money’s worth.
Instead, students are not get­
ting their money’s worth, because 
CMDS is so budget-conscious. 
We’re not saying that it’s not im­
portant to stick to a budget — it’s 
certainly essential to have some 
guidelines for spending. But it’s 
important to know when it’s okay 
to bend those boundaries and go a 
little over in the expenditures 
category.
The biggest annoyance we can 
identify is that CMDS will not 
allow students to back out of their 
meal plans. If a student purchases 
a meal plan one year and decides 
he or she is satisfied enough to get 
one the next year, he or she can 
reasonably expect comparable 
service if the price is the same, 
and increased service if the price 
goes up. And if service doesn’t 
keep pace with price, than stu­
dents should receive refunds for 
their meal plans.
Even though CMDS provides a 
two-to-three-week meal plan trial 
period at the beginning of the se­
mester, that does nothing for 
students who want to back out 
when Dining Service yanks ser­
vices in mid-February.
Think about it. Students commit 
to a several-hundred-dollar meal 
plan that is unbreakable for the 
entire school year. More than 
halfway through the school year, 
CMDS announces a cut-back of 
services. Students are dissatisfied, 
and try to back out, but they are 
told they can’t.
So they’re stuck. They can’t just 
throw up their hands and start 
eating off campus, because they’ll 
lose the money invested in their 
meal plans, and Dining Service 
saves some food that it can sell for 
cash. Students are held captive to 
CMDS. They have no choice.
Give them a choice. Or give them 
good enough service that they don’t 
need to make a choice. All we’re 
asking you to do, Mr. Gurley, is to 
take a lesson in customer satis­
faction. Do whatever it takes to 
uphold student services. If that 
means going into the red or bor­
rowing money, then do it. And for 
future years, if you aren’t certain 
that you can maintain an accept­
able level of quality, let students 
have a choice about their meal 
plans. It’s only fair.
there are few rewards for teach­
ing. Tenure decisions and profes­
sional reputations rarely hang on 
teaching performance, especially 
on the difference between being a 
good teacher and an outstanding 
one. Occasional awards are also 
insufficient compensation for the 
effort it takes to be a great teacher.
We hope these awards, as well 
as the appreciation of the students 
who have been taught by the 
current and past winners, can be 
at least partial repayment of the 
debt we owe to professors who go 
above and beyond the call of duty 
in the classroom.
It has been our observation in 
the past that the winners of the 
Doherty Prize and the Ryan 
Award truly are exceptional 
teachers; this year’s winners are 
no exceptions to that rule.
So to professors Carra, Clark, 
and Schaeffer: congratulations 
and thank you.
Student pokes holes in 
alumna’s argument
Editor:
In response to 
Steffany Hannan 
[“Alumna blasts 9i,,i5 ,e 
Women’s Center and the Edjto|. 
its values, 2/25], I 
would like to voice my opinion as a mem­
ber of the Women’s Center Collective. I 
would like to state first off that my views 
are merely my views and cannot and 
should not be attributed to the Women’s 
Center Collective as a whole.
The statement that has to preclude 
everything I say here is that, to the 
knowledge of everyone! have spoken to 
on the collective, Ms. Hannan has never 
attended a meeting at the Women’s Cen­
ter. For all those who have read her 
letter, it is crucial to note that Ms. 
Hannan has no personal experience on 
which to base her generalized and ob­
noxious opinions.
Ms. Hannan has somehow managed to 
include every typically sexist, patriar­
chal, and Homophobic stereotype of femi­
nists in a letter that spans approximately 
one column in The Tartan. Amazing. 
She’s so dead on the mark with her 
unfounded stereotypes that her letter 
could nearly be called a parody. In any 
case, without going on the defensive, as 
Ms. Hannan seems to want me to do, I 
would like to explain a few things.
Ms. Hannan states that she feels the 
Women’s Center is currently in a “state 
of horror.” Although some of us who are 
in the Women’s Center have recently 
taken it upon ourselves to bring to light 
some of the sexist, racist, and homophobic 
attitudes expressed on this campus, and 
to say out loud that we do not approve, I 
would hardly consider our vocal objec­
tion a “state of horror.”
However, I feel it is important to not sit 
back and accept sexism and homophobia; 
I will not sit back and be a “good girl,” or 
a “lady” as Ms. Hannan would put it, 
when what is happening in Ms. Hannan’s 
letter, on this campus and in society as a 
whole, is disgusting and degrading to 
women. I would truly like to know how 
Ms. Hannan has apparently become so 
omnipotent as to feel she can achieve 
“whatever I please in life regardless of 
the fact I am a woman.” Maybe she’s just 
copped the patriarchal party line so well, 
and fallen into her “proper,” non-agitory 
place, that no one harasses her; she is 
exactly what society wants her and other 
women to be: quiet.
Ms. Hannan also states that she does 
not want to be “completely equal to 
[men].” Interesting point. Perhaps when 
Ms. Hannan is denied funding for her 
first feature film for reasons such as, 
“Women can’t make movies,” and “Di­
recting has always been a man’s job,” her 
opinion will be different. Nonetheless, 
until then, we so-called radical feminists 
will continue to fight for the rights of Ms. 
Hannan and every other woman to do 
whatever she wants, whether it be ca­
reer-wise, sexually, or politically.
As for Ms. Hannan’s accusations that 
the Women’s Center “is not a place for 
women to go for support and friendship,” 
how would Ms. Hannan know? Does she 
know that the Women’s Center offers 
guidance for women in everything from 
career opportunities to health? Does she 
know that the Women’s Center offers a 
support group for survivors of rape and
sexual assault? Does she know that the 
Women’s Center has a discussion and 
support group for lesbian and bisexual 
women? •
But Ms. Hannan seems to think that 
rape and sexuality are two completely 
over-discussed topics at the Women’s 
Center; I will tell her straight out that as 
long as women continue to be raped and 
individuals are denied equal rights and 
persecuted because of their sexual prefer­
ence, I will continue to talk hard and talk 
loud. Ms. Hannan seems to think that 
being anti-rape and pro-sexual freedom 
means you’re a man-hater. Therefore, if I 
like men, I think rape is okay; if I like men, 
I do not accept every woman’s right to 
choose who she has sex with. God, where 
do these attitudes come from?! Certainly 
not from anything Ms. Hannan could have 
seen at the Women’s Center.
This brings us to Ms. Hannan’s most 
overwhelming stereotype: that members 
of the Women’s Center—every single one 
of us — are “insecure lesbian feminists.” 
There are several implications here; first, 
that to be a feminist, one has to be a 
lesbian (or “sexually confused,” as Ms. 
Hannan would put it); second, that being 
a lesbian automatically makes one a 
feminist; third, that in order to be a lesbian 
and/or a feminist one has to be insecure.
As anyone who opens their eyes to 
today’s culture and politics can see, none 
of these assumptions are true. The 
Women’s Center is a place for women 
and men, gays, lesbians, bisexuals and 
straights, people of different races, 
classes and backgrounds, students, fac­
ulty and staff.
In my experience and the experience of 
many women I know, the Women’s Center 
has been a very open-minded, accepting 
place to be. It is not a place where women 
sit around plotting the best ways to 
castrate a man; rather, it is a place where 
a variety of people, ideas, feminist 
theories, and sexual orientations meet 
without judgement or prejudice. The 
Women’s Center is, contrary to Ms. 
Hannan’s uninformed opinions, a place 
where all women, yes, even straight 
women, can “talk and spend time.”
Ms. Hannan seems to think that the 
Women’s Center true goal is to “harness 
the abilities of youngwomen on campus.” 
At last check, I was not, nor were any of 
the individuals on the collective, trying 
to harness anyone into anything.
Quite to the contrary, my personal 
belief is that my work as a feminist will 
help to make a dent in the centuries-long 
harnessing of women into stereotypes 
like those that Ms. Hannan perpetuates 
. in her letter.
As for the Women’s Center supposed 
“bad-mouthing, mud-slinging, ranting 
and raving,” what does Ms. Hannan call 
what she has done in her letter? And why 
is it that the Women’s Center continues 
to have to justify its actions and even its 
reason for being over and over and over? 
Why is it that a feminist letter gets a 
headline in The Tartan like “Protestor 
directs her attention to Theta Xi,” while 
an anti-feminist letter gets a header like 
“Alumna blasts Women’s Center and its 
values?” Open your eyes, people! The 
reasons for my actions and the actions of 
others, the reasons why a Women’s 
Center is an absolute necessity on this 
campus are literally right in front of your 
eyes.
But I’m off on a tangent. My final 
words to Ms. Hannan are this: Cut the
bullshit and the stereotypes. If you truly 
believe, as you state, that in our feminist 
attempts we are only making “fools of 
ourselves,” then I invite you actually get 
up some guts, set foot in the Women’s 
Center and find out the facts for yourself. 
Fut make no mistake, girly-girl, we fully 
intend to continue to make our voices 
heard — for the sake of all women, Ms. 
Hannan, including you.
Elizabeth Cronise 
Junior, Creative Writing, Profes­
sional Writing, and French
Heterosexual feminist 
disputes stereotype
Editor:
As a female, hetero­
sexual member of the 
ArtDepartmentin CFA 
with an emphasis on 
photographic studies, I 
find the technical similarities between 
Steffany Hannan and myself amusing. ; 
Amusing because, as Steffany stated in 
her letter to the editor [“Alumna blasts ; 
Women’s Center and its values,” 2/25], : 
since I am a member of the Women’s ! 
Center, I should be an “insecure lesbian : 
feminist.” I am opening this letter by say- ’ 
ing that I am very happy with my life, I am 
not an “insecure lesbian,” and I am a 
feminist. I will not be patronized into a • 
role of an “insecure lesbian feminist” by 
Steffany,-who has never attended a 
Women’s Center meeting of any kind, and 
I will certainly not allow myself to feel • 
verbally abused by a professional peer.
Let’s make some breathable air. 
Steffany, you begin your letter by stating 
you are “an ambitious, successful female 
working in a male dominated field — 
movie production.” I, too, am ambitious 
and successful and work within a male 
dominated field—photography. I do not 
need anyone’s pity; I chose this direction 
in which to lead my life, and I enjoy my 
pursuits.
Yet, according to your letter, this is 
something I sit around and grovel about 
while in the company of “insecure lesbian 
feminists.” You continue the letter by 
comparing women’s job aptitudes to 
men’s, saying there are some things men 
do better than women and some things 
women do better than men. Do you feel 
fulfilled in settling for that, and do you 
feel it is necessary to view your 
achievements only with regards to what 
others can achieve? I declared my own 
major within my department for my own 
reasons, not out of reaction to what 
someone else may think typifies what 
may be a successful woman.
When you speak of your feeling that 
you “can achieve whatever you please in 
life regardless of the fact that I am a 
woman,” are you taking into account the 
struggle many other women feel in try­
ing to attain their ambitions or the 
struggles you may encounter yourself in 
the future? If you feel this latter state­
ment does not apply to your situation, 
why don’t you sign up for our Women s 
Works in Progress discussions and share 
with a group your secrets to success as a 
woman? I work at the Women’s Center 
Thursdays 11 am to 12:30 pm and 4 pm 
to 6 pm if you would just like to share 
with me. Feel free to come to the source 
instead of opting for safe, paternalistic 
Please see LETTERS, page 12
nOrv!sV rUr5X4U0vv0vC y5ecisse5s
M© x0
I-filer to the Edilcr
9i,,i5 ,e 
,Oi .X0,e5

---------------------------------------------------

The Tartan • Carnegie Mellon • 18 March 19919
Women must play lead role in battling sexism
Jonathan Levy
There can be little doubt that 
one of the hottest issues, maybe 
the hottest issue, on college cam­
puses today is the relationship 
between women and men.
At CMU, this issue and the 
problems related to it are being 
debated and played out every­
where from the Women’s Center 
to the outside (and probably the 
inside) of Theta Xi to the pages of 
this and other publications.
But, despite all the talking, 
speechmaking, demonstrating, 
and writing of letters to the edi­
tor, it seems that very little real 
action is being taken by either 
men or women to attack the prob­
lems between them.
To a large extent, that action 
has to be taken by women. They 
are the victims of most of the 
problems and, whether it is fair or 
not, they will have to be a big part 
of the solutions.
As long as large numbers of 
women continue to look the other 
way or actually encourage dis­
crimination, harassment, rape, 
and other offenses, it will be hard 
to convince people of either gen­
der that these things are prob­
lems worth addressing.
It does little good to protest sex­
ist advertising of fraternity par­
ties if many women continue to go 
to those parties. Many people will 
simply conclude that the adver­
tising offends only a small mi­
nority of the women on this 
campus and that there is no real 
need for change.
Similarly, the willingness of 
many women to participate in little 
sister programs at fraternities 
makes it impossible to demand 
respect for those women and diffi­
cult to demand it for other women.
Suppose I willingly joined an 
organization which would only 
admit me as a “little Jew” with no 
official membership status, no di­
rect input into the operation of 
the organization, and only those 
rights to participate in the orga­
nization that the real members 
chose to grant me at any given 
time. I could hardly expect to be 
taken seriously if I complained 
that I was given less respect than 
non-Jews. If many Jews joined 
such organizations under similar
Only when women stop attending 
parties whose posters invite them to 
be treated like meat on display at 
butcher shops will those posters 
disappear.
conditions, one would not be sur­
prised if society concluded that all 
Jews were unworthy of respect.
The first step in successfully 
fighting the problems of sexism 
has got to be for women to stop 
putting up with them.
Only when women stop attend­
ing parties whose posters invite 
them to be treated like meat on 
display at butcher shops will those 
posters disappear. And only when 
they stop attending parties where 
they are treated this way will the 
parties themselves disappear.
The same thing applies to most 
other offenses against women as 
well.
Women will have to refuse to 
remain romantically involved 
with men who insist on control­
ling their lives or abusing them in
other ways before such men 
change or die out. Perhaps most 
important, acquaintance rape will 
not be ended on a large scale as 
long as women continue to return 
to men and groups of men who are 
known to have committed rapes 
in the past.
Some people are going to read 
this column and accuse me of 
blaming the victims for offenses 
against women. I suppose to some 
extent that is a valid accusation.
I don’t blame the person who is 
victimized when there is no rea­
sonable way he or she could have 
anticipated or avoided the prob­
lem. That person is deserving of 
sympathy and support.
But if that person keeps going 
back for more when he or she has 
the opportunity to do otherwise,
the sympathy and support are 
going to disappear. The same is 
true for a person who knowingly 
and willingly walks into a situa­
tion where others have been vic­
timized before.
As I said above, it may not be fair 
that women will have to take the 
leadin endingmany ofthe problems 
that victimize them. But there is 
really no other way it can happen.
Those men who enjoy the status 
quo certainly will not take that 
lead. Men who oppose it may try, 
but they will not get anywhere as 
long as their opponents can point 
to large numbers of women volun­
teering to be victimized.
The next move in the fight 
against sexism at CMU is in the 
hands of its women and it will be 
interesting to see what move is 
made. If many women do nothing 
or continue to merely complain 
about problems they help to per­
petuate, that fight will be lost. If 
they take action and stop sup­
porting the people who would 
make them victims, it will be 
closer to being won.
Jonathan Levy is a second year 
S UP A master’s student and a 1990 
Biology Department alumnus.
Free
Speech.
If you’re an off-campus student,get the YJ&ff Calling Card and your first call is free.
There’s no better time to speak your mind.
Because now when you get your free AT&T Calling Card, you’ll 
get your first 15-minute call fiee^
_ . With your AT&T Calling Card, you can call
L iATKT Call/no Card r 1 i i . itrom almost anywhere to anywhere. And you 
can keep your card, even if you move and get 
a new phone number.
Our Calling Card is part of the AT&T
83b 000 bl 8.0 1111.
-STCŸE COJ
Í9I25» ÍJ6 000 ft?»? K , ,W.
Student Saver Plus program, a whole package of products and services 
designed to make a student’s budget go farther.
So look for AT&T Calling Card applications on campus.
Or call us at 1 800 525-7955, Ext. 655.
And let freedom ring.
AM". Helping make college life a little easier.
* A $3.00 value for a coast-to-coast Calling Card call. Applies to customer-dialed calls made during the AT&T Night/ 
Weekend calling period, 11pm to 8am, Sunday through Thursday and 11pm Friday through 5pm Sunday. You may receive 
mote or less calling time depending on where and when you call. Applications must be received by December 31,1991.
AT&T
nOi 50CO, mOe0mid
THE TARTAN
Dr5viC0i Fi33evts 2,8Xiv, hiUsyryi5
20vmi E&R*
.X0,e540v4DO0icdddddddddddJr,0i D831i5,sev
FrvrC0vC .X0,e5 ddddh0me3i l5em!arvv 
l8s0viss FrvrCi5ddddddli,O wd PAPesis
hiUs .X0,e5ddddddddddddddddddddddddfro0X 9rXi!
ke58a .X0,e5dddddddddfrv0i3 Xi g5rvXy5i
2ye5,s .X0,e5ddddddddddddddddddddddddddddw30a Tru
kir,85is .X0,e5dddddddddddddddddddddwJd f85rLL0
f0oi5s0evs .X0,e5ddddddddd2,iyOiv X0m!i5
Dr3ivXr5 .X0,e5 ddd2rarv,Or Jessarv
FrCrL0vi .X0,e5dddddddddddddddw30sev g5iiv
fess0i5 90,i5r5u .X0,e5dddddJrm! 2031i5,
fess0i5 fis0Cv .X0,e5 ddddDO50s 2O0i3Xs
w5, .X0,e5dddddddddddddddddddddddddddddddddddddJeOv 90v
pOe,e 2,rcc FrvrCi5dddddJesO k5iiarv
fr5!5eea FrvrCi5dddddJivv0ci5 wXras
p5eX8m,0ev FrvrCi5ddddJivv0ci5 ke51is
Deyu FrvrCi5dddddddddddddddddddKi0X0 Keeoi5
2us,ias FrvrCi5dddddddddddwXra g5ess
wss,d hiUs .X0,e5ddddddddddddFiCrv f0i,L
wss,d ke58a .X0,e5dddddddddFdJd TeXCi5s
wss,d 2ye5,s .X0,e5 dddJrsev Fmfevr3X
wss,d kir,85is .X0,e5ddddddddddn58y,0 pr,i3
wss,d f0oi5s0evs .X0,e5dddddddni550 JrsmO
wss,d FrCrL0vi .X0,e5dd wL3iivr 2r33iO
Dev,5018,0vC .X0,e5s 
28srv w15rasV Jio0v lr5viuV frUv 
l5esevs!0V Y0330ra l85!uV g5rv, 
Dr5a0mOri3V Jrsev f0CarvV k5rv! 
f0A0,eV nrX fem!s,rXi5V Jrais ld 
.vX5is ’ne!ueGV f8s,0v k5rL0i5V fdwd 
KivXi5sevV Jivv0ci5 Ji5s,i0vV fiI,i5 nd 
Je1rursO0V kr55ev Yd 9iouV Jevr,Orv 
9iouV nOears h0mOe3sV fev p0m!i,,V 
KeUXu p0i5miV F0mOri3 nd TesiV Y0330ra 
Dd 2r15raV PCvr,08s 2rsa0,rV TOevXr 
2,58a0vCi5
2iv0e5 2,rcc 
frv0i3 Ke33rvXV Yrsiia K8ssr0vV Jro0i5 
g5033e4Fr5I8rmOV T0mO Te10vsevV F0!i 
2Ory05eV TrvXu NXromr!V wd k5rv!30v 
YOii3i5
2,rccU50,i5s 
9r85r wXrasV Fr,, wX3i5V 28Lrvvi 
lr5,3i,,V T8ss liXi3V w33rv le85X08sV 
PvC50X l5ea1i5CV w30sev Dr5,i5V T1 
D3ru,evV F0mOri3 De3r0rvviV wvX5iU 
Desiv,0veV 9e50 fiai,i5V J033 fivio0smOV 
frv ki55i33V J8s,0vi fuaevXV hr,r30i 
gisaevXV k5rvm0s Fd ge3Xs1i55uV 
FiCrv g5i0CV J8Xu g5essarvV 2r5rO 
Kra03,evV De33iiv JrviV gii,8 
JOrvX8¦rV gie5C0vr JeevV T0mOr5X 
JU0r,!eUs!0V .X 9iiV Jr5iv 9eC30sm0V 
froi Fr5,0vV DO0v xOV 2O0L8!r x,r!iV 
Fr5! wd TemisV DOr53is 2r1r,esV fe8C 
2me,,V w3rv 23ervV T0mOr5X 2evCV 
ZrmOr5u 2a0,OV Jrsev 9ii 2a0,OV Ji33u 
2,i530vCV n0vr N5seV Kir,Oi5 Yr3!i5V 
Te1i5, Yuvi5
w5,
.50m fro0sV Jiv k33m!s,i0vV .50! JivsivV 
F0!i J05smO,V DO0v xOV Jicc xy30vCi5V 
froi prCrv0V pr83i,,r prvV hrea0 
pir5sevV Jrsev pi3,LV Disr5 2rvmOiLV 
wau Yi0vi5
Dea0ms
g5iCC lr0ai3V wvX0 l50CCsV k30v, 
D58ayrmOi5V .50m fro0sV frvvu krOsV 
DO50s k50rV frv gr33rCOi5V froi Jry3rV 
wvX5i JO5eaeoV fe8C 9rayi5s!0V hi03 
FmDr5,OuV D5r0C F58si!V pr83 TiiXV 
TdJd T8vrsV DOr53is 2r1r,esV F0!i 
2Ory05eV Jrm! 2031i5,V D30cce5X 2v0Xi5V 
Tru 2,5e1i3V Jd F0mOri3 nOearsV h0m! 
Yr5X0Ce
pOe,eC5ryOuBfr5!5eea 
Jrsev lr5sOruV Jri DOrvCV fro0X 
fem!,e5V frv k5iuV JesO k5iiarvV A0oi! 
g8y,rV K033r5u JrOvV 2,iyOiv JrvCV w8­
C8s,0vi J8eV w1i 9io0viV 2ra 
Frs,5ear,,ieV Jiss0mr F033i5V g8u 
prb8i,,iV pr83i,,r prvV J0sOe5 Jd Tre
p5eX8m,0evB9rue8, 
TrmOi3 le85vV wvvi Dray1i33V Frv0sO 
FeXOV prv!r¦ 2d FeXuV T0m! |80vvV 
J0sOe5 Jd TreV fi5i! T810veccV n0vr 
N5se
Deyu
28srv lr!i5V Dr,Oi50vi li33rvmrV 
Kir,Oi5 l5e8XV .33iv KivX50m!sevV 
9ivvr JuXisV frv0i3 Fr5,0viLV .50!r 
x3sevV DOrvXr 2rvXi5s
nOi nr5,rv 0s ,Oi s,8Xiv, viUsyryi5 ec Dr5v­
iC0i Fi33ev Nv0oi5s0,ud P, 0s r Uii!3u viUsyr­
yi5 y8130sOiX 1u s,8Xiv,s X850vC ,Oi cr33 rvX 
sy50vC siais,i5sV r, ve mes, ,e aia1i5s ec 
,Oi Nv0oi5s0,u meaa8v0,ud P, 0s y50v,iX 1u 
Yis,i5v pivvsu3orv0r p50v,0vCV Pvmd 281sm50y­
,0evs r5i ror03r13i ce5 ,Oi siais,i5 e5 rmr­
Xia0m uir5d nOi iX0,e50r3s ryyir50vC r, ,Oi 
1iC0vv0vC ec ,Oi ey0v0ev sim,0ev r5i ,Oi ecc0­
m0r3 ey0v0ev ec nOi nr5,rv iX0,e50r3 1er5Xd 
De38avs r5i ,Oi ey0v0evs ec 0vX0o0X8r3 r8­
,Oe5sd 9i,,i5s ,e ,Oi .X0,e5 r5i ey0v0evs ec 
r8,Oe5s UOe r5i 8s8r33uV 18, ve, vimissr503uV 
aia1i5s ec,Oi Nv0oi5s0,u meaa8v0,ud w 3i,,i5 
0v,ivXiX ce5 y8130mr,0ev a8s, 1i s0CviX rvX 
0vm38Xi ,Oi oB50,i5Qs rXX5iss rvX yOevi v8a­
1i5 ce5 oi50c0mr,0evd hrais U033 1i U0,OOi3X 
8yev 5ib8is,d nOi nr5,rv 5isi5ois ,Oi 50CO, ,e 
mevXivsi e5 5i¦im, rvu 3i,,i5 e5 me38avd Deyu­
50CO, / E&&E 1u nOi nr5,rvd nOi nr5,rv 
iX0,e50r3 1er5X 5isi5ois ,Oi 50CO, ,e U0,OOe3X 
c5ea y8130mr,0ev rvu meyu 0, Xiias 8vc0, ce5 
y8130mr,0evd
xcc0mi) 2!01e ^R ’-EWG W*M4WEEE
Fr030vC rXX5iss) nOi nr5,rvBleI E©BDr5viC0i Fi33ev
Nv0oi5s0,uBp0,,s185COd pw E^WE(4(M&R
k8vXiX 0v yr5, 1u ,Oi wm,0o0,0is kiid
w33 50CO,s 5isi5oiXd
N15r5u ec DevC5iss P22h #) RM&R4(ER©d

---------------------------------------------------

10The Tartan • Carnegie Mellon • 18 March 1991
HERBLOCK’S CARTOON
FheTohGwTwoE qeI tdh BGwuohEwTI GoxaonTRRR exewG
The fraternities mostly handle all their own 
painting and carpeting. From experience, I 
know that the University uses cheap carpet 
and paint when it bothers to do either.
Richard Robinson
The administration is rather good at 
politics. It practices political strategies 
in obtaining such things as research 
grants and donations. What I thought, 
though, is that it had enough concern for 
the students not to use politics on us..
I’m referring to the lease increase that 
it is forcing on the fraternities. The in­
crease is to cover maintenance costs to 
bring the houses up to housing regula­
tions imposed by the city. A very noble 
cause — on the surface.
They are trying to “sell the idea” — an 
administrator’s own words — of milking 
the fraternities of a million dollars. Of 
course, that is a small amount compared 
to the total $3 million it will cost to 
complete the project.
But we must step back and look at why 
these prices are so high. Are the new 
regulations that strict? No, many of them 
are only moderate increases in standards
— in many cases only orders to enforce 
regulations that already existed.
So again, why is this maintenance cost 
so high? The maintenance report con­
cerns itself mostly with electrical and 
plumbing problems, roof leakage, the 
foot of water that doesn’t drain off the 
garages, heating, and kitchen standards. 
The lesser part is carpeting, painting, 
and basic charismatic improvements.
The charismatic improvements are ob­
viously just for effect. The fraternities 
mostly handle all their own painting and 
carpeting. From experience, I know that 
the University uses cheap carpet and paint 
when it bothers to do either. The houses 
could handle these problems on their own 
—at a better price and with better results.
So that leaves the large problems. The 
new regulations did not change that 
much. The part the University notices, 
though, is the enforcement of existing 
regulations.
How could the electric and plumbing 
systems have become so bad after only 
20 to 30 years if the University was 
maintaining them all along? The prob­
lem was that it wasn’t. The same goes for 
the kitchens. If the University had been 
keeping to regulations all the time, it 
wouldn’t have to spend $750,000 now to 
bring them to standards — $250,000 
being paid by the fraternities.
The garages have had a foot to two feet 
of water on top of them since I was a 
freshman. Why didn’t Physical Plant take 
care of this three years ago?
As far as repairing the roofs of houses, 
I don’t see why after 20 to 30 years new 
roofs are required if they were properly 
maintained. My family just had a new 
roof on our house after 40 years — and 
the old one wasn’t even going bad.
The only problem I see is that the Uni­
versity neglected its responsibilities. The 
fraternities have been paying leases to the 
University, taking increase after increase, 
for the original cost of the houses, and for 
maintenance. Obviously the university 
found it easier to steal this lease money 
and put it in its own pocket rather than 
fulfill its responsibility to provide frater­
nities with clean, safe homes.
And now the University wants the
fraternities to pay for its greed and lack 
of foresight. But wait, we are being al­
lowed to speak.
Each house is allowed one — and only 
one — representative to talk about the 
increase. Not to talk about whether or 
not it will happen, but instead about how 
it will happen.
You see, the University has already 
made up its mind. It neglected its re­
sponsibilities to the fraternities and the 
city, and now wants the fraternities to 
pay for its mistakes.
All the fraternities are nasty pigs, any­
way, so let them pay — who cares?
But it isn’t stupid. I never said the 
University is stupid. It had Housing hire 
a lawyer for the houses to talk to for three 
hours, total. Just in case one of those 
dumb frat boys is smart enough to find out 
that the University cannot legally assess
the fraternities, the University doesn’t 
want to be hit by a lawsuit.
Isn’t $21,750 enough for the Univer* 
sity? My dad just lost his job and they 
still won’t give me financial aid. How am 
I supposed to pay for school and this 
increase? I don’t think any fraternity 
member is responsible for the University 
neglecting its responsibilities to him.
The University tried to make money 
by ignoring living standards and now it’s 
paying. But it doesn’t want all the blame. 
As usual, it wants someone else to foot 
the bill.
I’m looking to IFC to finally get off its 
butt and do something. Organize pro­
tests. If IFC won’t do it, the fraternities 
should. This increase isn’t right. It isn’t 
moral, either. The University forced the 
fraternities to live in sub-standard hous­
ing and now when it is called on it by the 
city, it is forcing the fraternities to pay 
for it.
The University’s history of getting 
something accomplished is riddled with 
failure. The students get promises and 
that’s all. Unfulfilled promises. In other 
words, straight-out lies.
No more increases. No more lies.
Richard Robinson is a junior IM major.
“P DwY 9PDJ whBFwh Ph .PnK.T KxN2.“
Nenb dt ennoEE pwGHohE HwEeVaoH
Kevin Barney
On February 19,1 was playing 
IM basketball in the women’s gym 
for an IM team that plays like the 
Miami Heat. Well, maybe not. 
We’re not that good. The Heat has 
won a couple of games. Anyway, a 
teammate of mine knocked the ball 
from one of our opponents. I 
grabbed the ball and was on a fast 
break—break being the key word. 
One of my opponents fouled me 
into the wall. I hit hard, injuring 
my right knee and fracturing a 
bone in my left foot. I don’t blame 
our opponents, because they were 
playing like I play: rough. Unfor­
tunately, I was injured.
However, the referee didn’t feel 
that way. I was trying to walk 
when he called me back into the 
game to take my two shots. I asked 
him if I could have a substitute to 
take them. He said no. I staggered 
back onto the court. The referee 
cleared the court and I shot my 
first. When I crouched down to 
shoot, pain shot through my foot 
and the ball went sailing over the 
backboard. The second shot I was 
able to shoot without crouching 
and I made it. After my foul shots, 
I was carried out to security who 
proceeded to take me to Presby.
That’s my first complaint. I wish 
that the IM referees would learn 
the rules of the game before offici­
ating. I have covered many IM 
games for The Tartan and some of 
those officials wouldn’t know the 
difference between a soccer ball 
and a basketball. The poor officiat­
ing never bothered me before, but 
then again it never caused me 
physical pain.
My second complaint is directed
at the architects of this University 
and the administration that de­
clares this campus “handicap-ac- 
cessible.” The doctor said that I 
couldn’t put any weight on my foot, 
sol have resorted to using crutches 
as my best form of transportation.
I can get to all of my classes by 
not using stairs, but some of these 
paths are as convenient as a tape 
player without a fast forward but­
ton. The only elevator in Porter/
Baker is all the way down near the 
end of Porter. Most of my classes 
are on the second floor of Baker, up 
near the library end. I use the 
stairs. It’s not easy, but I can 
manage. At least, I don’t live on the 
third floor of Mudge anymore — 
there are no elevators at all in 
Mudge. I would hate to be in a 
wheelchair on this campus.
Another big thing about this 
campus is the heavy doors. You 
don’t know how hard it is to open a 
door and stick in a crutch to keep it 
from closing on you and then make 
it through the door. Most of the 
time I have been lucky. Other 
people are usually around and they 
hold the doors open for me. I would 
like to thank those people. But 
there have been a few times when 
no one has been around to help and 
getting through the door has been 
an exercise in futility.
Two other students that were on 
crutches told me that when they 
were on crutches they didn’t even 
try to attend classes. I can’t afford 
to miss six weeks of classes.
If this campus wants to declare 
itself “handicap-accessible” then 
maybe some administrators should 
have their legs broken and be forced 
to wander around campus to see 
just how hard it is.
Kevin Barney is a senior profes­
sional writing major.
HERBLOCK’S CARTOON
w99 ’yNP.n OH nK. KxF. pTxFn
Fight domestic war against crime
By the second day of the ground 
war with Iraq, four U.S. service­
men had been killed in action. In 
that same period of time, nine 
persons were killed in the Wash­
ington area.
That paradox did not escape 
the notice of President Bush. 
“More Americans were killed in 
some cities in the United States 
than at the entire Kuwaiti front,” 
he said of the war’s early stages. 
He might have added that millions 
more are prisoners.
Prisoners of many things, in­
cluding stale ideologies. One of 
them is the reluctance of some 
liberals to endorse stiff and certain 
punishment. For too many crimi­
nals, being caught is a mere in­
convenience.
For a variety of reasons, they 
simply go free. Not only are they 
not punished but they are walk­
ing, probably boasting, adver­
tisements to others: You, too, can 
get away with it.
I know with certainty that jail 
is no remedy. It can make hard­
ened criminals of first offenders 
and it seems not to deter others 
who, once freed, frequently revert 
to a life of crime.
But “criminal” is a designation. 
Beyond the criminal is someone 
else, a kid on the cusp of crime. 
Whether he becomes a criminal 
or not may depend on how he 
sizes up the chances of being pun-
Richard Cohen
ished. If, rationally, he thinks 
those chances are slim to nonex­
istent, he may well make the 
wrong choice.
One other thing I know: This is 
not the liberal prescription for 
what ails America. But it is not, 
either, a refutation.
It is possible to insist on decent 
housing, quality education, sen­
sible welfare, job programs and 
more and still recognize that 
something else is needed. That 
“something” has to be the convic­
tion that certain actions produce 
certain consequences.
But if some liberals still have a 
hard time seeing criminals as 
anything other than victims, then 
conservatives, too, cling to their 
ideological misconceptions.
The Bush administration’s 
crime bill, for instance, is chock- 
full of all sorts of knee-jerk con­
servative applause lines.
It would impose the death pen­
alty for additional federal crimes, 
restrict appeals from death-row 
inmates and loosen the strictures 
on the introduction of certain 
evidence.
But the crimes it covers are 
true statistical aberrations — 
murder in national parks, for in­
stance — amounting to an aver­
age of about four a year — that’s 
four of about 23,200 murders.
These proposals will do nothing 
to reduce crime. Death-row ap­
peals, for example, are filed by 
people already in jail.
Notably missing from the 
measure is a realistic approach to 
the nation’s gun problem. Here, 
too, we can talk of symbolic pris­
oners — people who are afraid to 
leave their homes lest they get in 
the way of some gun-toting teen­
agers whose regard for life is about 
on par with their marksmanship.
The nation is awash with guns, 
so many that it hardly matters if 
an occasional city or even state 
restricts them. Guns, including 
assault rifles, are invariably 
available just a short drive away.
This attitude towards guns, 
along with all else that ails 
America, is downright lethal — 
around 33,000 firearms deaths a 
year.
It amounts to this: A given per­
son is safer in combat than he or 
she is at home. For this problem, 
the Bush administration has al­
most no remedy. Gun legislation 
is being left to the states, says 
Attorney General Richard 
Thomberg—packaging “passing 
the buck” as yet another advance 
in Federalism.
And the vaunted crime bill pro­
vides cities and states with little 
additional money to hire police,
prosecutors, public defenders, or 
to build jails. The Democrats, on 
the other hand, are ready to pro­
pose a bill that would provide 
about $1 billion for more cops, 
prosecutors and a jail-building 
program. Dollars to doughnuts, 
Bush will oppose it.
Democrats, particularly liber­
als, who eschew punishment and 
advocate social programs instead 
are only half right. Some people 
mightily deserve a good whack.
Even victims can make choices 
and those choices have conse­
quences —not only for him or her, 
but for the rest of us as well. In 
fact, one of the worst choices a 
victim can make is to see himself 
as nothing more than that — a 
victim and, therefore, entitled to 
all sorts of forgiveness.
But conservatives who think 
that the crime problem can be 
ameliorated by what amounts to 
symbolic measures — the death 
penalty for train derailers, for 
instance — are off in a ga-ga land 
of their own.
Somewhere between the liberal 
and conservative positions might 
well be a remedy for the crime 
problem. In the meantime, its 
the space in which criminals op­
erate.
Richard Cohen is a syndicated 
columnist with the Washington 
Post Writers Group.

---------------------------------------------------

The Tartan • Carnegie Mellon • 18 March 199111
OPIMON
From the sunny beaches of 
the Florida Keys to the stark, 
white slopes of Aspen, students 
have been contemplating what 
they’d do for spring break since 
the end of winter vacation.
What would be your ideal 
spring break?
Kevin Tang
Junior
IM
“My ideal break would be a 
weekend in Lake Tahoe and a 
week in Toronto. I’m going to 
Toronto.”
Sonya KUmasewiski 
Senior
Policy/Management
“My ideal spring break would 
be to lay on a tropical beach and 
have gorgeous men bring me 
drinks on a regular basis, all ex­
penses paid.”
Eric Weakland 
Sophomore 
History
“A spring break where I could 
go someplace very sunny—but it 
wouldn’t cost me an arm and a leg 
— and have gorgeous women 
serve me drinks.”
Sue Quigley 
Senior
Professional Writing
“I’d like to go to Australia.’1
K033r5u JrOvBnr5,rv pOe,eC5ryOi5V 
Patricia Kuo 
Freshman 
Biology
“I’d go somewhere warm with' 
a whole bunch of my friends.” '
FhoH SdxohEz Md.aH po Vo Go$T MCB qhdudET8
I’ve been kind of distressed this week; 
the search to replace Provost Angel Jor­
dan is going to end without any input 
from me. I really hoped the Provost 
Search Committee would call — I could 
have given them a couple tips to help 
make its job easier. Luckily, it still has 
eight candidates to sift through, so I can 
still offer it my ideas.
8Mike Tyson: Sure he’s got a wimpy 
voice. So he doesn’t have the brainpower 
to toast bread — lightly. I guarantee 
public relations would never again be a 
problem, though. U.S. News & World 
Report would have to rank us first in the 
nation, lest our provost show up at the 
editor’s home late at night. Unfortu­
nately, this would probably lead to Don 
King hanging around Salads Plus all the 
time, so we can scratch Iron Mike from 
the list.
•Hugh Hefner: Naming Hef as provost 
would definitely appease all the guys on 
this campus who whine about the male 
to female ratio at CMU. An additional 
benefit would be the renaming of Wamer
Jason McDonald
Hall’s sixth floor as “The Provost’s Party 
Pad.” Unfortunately, there’s the danger 
that the “CCon of the Month” contests 
could turn ugly and lead to campus-wide 
violence, so Hef will have to wait.
•Donald Trump: Being the only uni­
versity in the nation with an on-campus 
hotel/casino would be the obvious advan­
tage of this move. Carnegie Mellon’s ap­
plication rate would skyrocket when po­
tential freshman hear that they can win 
QPA bonuses on the slot machines. I can 
almost hear it now — “Blackjack! Give 
that kid a ‘B’ in Tech & People.”
•Dan Quayle: I know he doesn’t have 
any qualifications, but having Quayle a 
little closer to home would make my job 
as a columnist a lot easier.
•Andrew “Dice” Clay: He hasn’t been
in demand since Ford Fairlane came out, 
so he’d be available. It would also remove 
the burden of finding a comedian for 
Carnival each year. Unless we actually 
want someone funny.
•Michael Miliken: Even after paying 
all his SEC penalties, he’s still got enough 
money to buy our school anything we 
need. Besides which, he could do wonders 
with Carnegie Mellon’s investment port­
folio.
•Fred Rogers: He’s local, he’s.a great 
guy, and Make-Believe could be added to 
the CIT core curriculum. Unfortunately, 
Joe Negri would have to replace Mike 
Murphy, and the IRS might have some 
problems when they see puppets on the 
payroll.
•Mike Dukakis: On the positive side of 
things, having Kitty around would keep 
the Panther Hollow Inn well in the black. 
As a negative, just think “Taxachusetts.” 
$1,250 would seem like pocket change in 
comparison.
•Bo Jackson: Sales of “Bo knows 
higher education” T-shirts could wipe
CMU’s multi-million dollar debt off the 
map.
•Bob Vila: He could get the entire crew 
of This Old House together to rebuild the 
gym for free. Unfortunately, he’d prob­
ably force us to buy his Time-Life book 
series.
•Julia Child: CMDS would sure get 
the old once-over. For that matter, Julia 
could even lend a hand in the kitchen. I 
certainly can’t argue with the idea of a 
provost who could give us stuffed pheas­
ant, soup, salad, Brie cheese, and a good 
white wine for less than $3.95.
So that’s the provost race as I see it. 
After all, why go with a stuffy academic 
type when we have a chance to make a 
powerful statement? Think about it.
By the way, I’ve got some interesting 
ideas about what we need in a university 
president....
Jason McDonald is a junior IM major 
who would really like to see what life 
would be like if the entire Warner Hall 
staff was replaced by Menudo.
/E&M© l8ivr A0s,r p0m,85is
Tartan reporters have discovered another 
possible provost, that “Hey Vern!” guy. 
Cut it out and show it to your friends.
BhVeG gEEe.aT VeTTaoE Epds t.TwawTI dt enT.ea seh
i.
Michael T. Rose
I was frantically trying to clear 
,my goggles, and wondering what 
to do about the marksman on the 
other side of the wall, when the 
grenade hit me on the head.
I wasn’t trapped in a free-fire 
zone, at least not in the tradi­
tional sense. I wasn’t facing down 
hardened guerilla positions in 
some house-to-house fighting in a 
nameless country far away. I was, 
to put it bluntly, trying not to get 
paint on my clothes, and I was 
scared out of my wits.
Two Saturdays ago, I attended 
an afternoon mock combat ses­
sion at Urban Assault with, a 
group of my fraternity brothers. 
Urban Assault, a ramshackle 
complex housed in a North Side 
warehouse, is an indoor version 
of popular “survival games” that
pit teams of paint-gun warriors 
against each other in large-scale 
adult versions of Capture the Flag.
The indoor combat adventure 
proved to be one of the more 
frightening experiences I’ve had, 
and after two hours of matches 
with experienced players, I came 
away from my “weekend warrior” 
roleplaying with a new perspec­
tive. The grenade incident made 
by far the largest impression.
The Urban Assault playing area 
is a large darkened building floor 
covered with all sorts of construc­
tions: ersatz barricades, walls, 
bunkers, and other forms o^wooden 
“cover.” Every surface is covered 
with the residue of hundreds of 
fluorescent paintballs, the legacy 
of inaccurate or overzealous 
marksmanship. When combined 
with occasional strobes or 
blacklights and a loud,' fuzzy ste­
reo system blasting rock ’n’ roll, 
the overall effect is that of a faintly 
glowing junkyard battlefield — 
Beirut by Benetton. Each round of
combat lasts about five minutes, or 
until one team captures the other 
team’s flag.
In this.particular round we were 
playing against a team of experi­
enced combatants. While we had 
an assortment of mock handguns 
and rifles, they were all equipped 
with customizedhigh-speed paint 
rifles — and they had the gre­
nades. Like a fragmentation gre­
nade, a paint grenade throws off a 
spray of blue paint that simulates 
the deadly radius of the real 
weapon. They had three or four of 
these items, each capable of “tag­
ging” everyone within a 30-foot 
radius, and we had none.
Cut to the scene I mentioned 
earlier. Huddled behind a wall, I 
was trying to clear my protective 
visor of the remains of a paint 
pellet. I had been shot directly in 
the face by an opponent behind a 
barricade several feet in front of 
me, and while he couldn’t put me 
out of the game — for safety rea­
sons, head shots do not count —
he had drastically reduced my 
ability to see him and respond to 
his attacks. I had just gotten the 
worst of the paint off when a plas­
tic object hit me on the head and 
landed in front of me — the 
aforementioned grenade.
I shouted some appropriate 
expletives and ran as fast as I 
could to another shelter about 
five meters away, where one of 
my companions had posted him­
self I huddled down, yelling for 
him to duck away from the 
forthcoming spray of paint.
Suddenly I realized — those 
grenades had no delay fuses. They 
were contact-triggered, intended 
to go off when they struck the 
ground. I had been the fortunate 
recipient of a dud.
After that round, I considered 
my experience. My first reaction 
was a strong sense of relief— I felt 
that if I had been hit by a grenade, 
and if it had failed to go off, that I 
had pretty much exhausted my 
luck for the day. I felt a sense of
euphoria that I had “survived” a 
close brush with “death.”
But upon further reflection, and 
the added experience of being shot 
several times in various games, I 
was able to gauge my feelings 
about the whole day’s activity.
I never want to be in a real war, 
a real gunfight, a real gang battle. 
Whatever romantic notions I might 
have once had about fighting, 
probably exacerbated by the recent 
“glorious war,” were dispelled for­
ever by the grenade that landed in 
my lap.
If make-believe war is so capri­
cious as to hinge life or death on the 
likelihood of a broken piece of 
plastic, then real war — hundreds 
of times more confusing, more 
chancy — has no logic or predict­
ability at all.
Thus, I have gained enormous 
respect for the men and women 
who are able to wage battles — 
not only soldiers, but police as 
well (where, incidentally, women 
are not barred from taking part in
combat). If the terror and confu­
sion I felt in that room are any­
thing compared to the emotions 
that confront people faced with 
the real thing, then these are re­
markable people indeed.
As a final note, I returned from 
my trip to Urban Assault to face 
some skepticism, or even disgust, 
that I would participate in such a 
“glorification of violence.” Aside 
from the. point that a facility like 
this gives people a relatively 
harmless outlet for violent urges, 
I would contend that the Urban 
Assault experience does not “glo­
rify” violence.
I went there expecting to return 
a hero, jingoistically recounting 
my kills; instead, I returned 
somewhat somber, recounting my 
brush with “death,” and realizing 
that a taste of an artificial war is 
all I need to know that I could 
never fight a real one.
Michael T. Rose is a senior pro­
fessional writing major.
"There’s nothing like a 
good play followed by a 
quiet dinner for two"
"I prefer two tickets to 
watch my favorite team 
play."
¦Wrong. Nothing 
compares to a great rock 
concert!"
No matter what your 
style, you can be sure 
you’ll get the latest In 
hair fashions at Great 
Expectations. The one 
salon for everyone.
hrai V
2mOee3 wXX5iss
D0,u
20r0i Z0y
Keai wXX5iss
D0,u
280,i Z0y -
Northwestern University 
Summer Session ’91 
Think or swim.
Pta ,O0v!0vCd 2ivX ai r c5ii meyu ec ,Oi 28aai5 
2iss0ev t&E mr,r3eC U0,O c0vrvm0r3 r0X rvX 5iC0s,5r,0ev 
0vce5ar,0ev ’ror03r13i 0v wy503Gd
p3irsi sivX ,Oi mr,r3eC ,e ? au Oeaid
? au smOee3d 
he5,OUis,i5v Nv0oi5s0,u 28aai5 2iss0ev Q&E 
WRR( 2Oi50Xrv TerX .orvs,evV P330ve0s *RWRM4W*^R
CHPECTflTianS
pT.DP2Pxh KwPTDNnn.T2
DESIGNER PERM
only 530.00
Complete with written 
guarantee
~$2.00^)FFon a 1I Precision Haircut |
| (complete w/ wash & style) , 
Expires Mar.31, 1951 * 
I Not valid with any other offer I 
[_ J^P^nKwA.DxNpxh______|
PRECISION CUT 
only $14.00
Deay3i,i U0,O sOrayee 
rvX 13eU s,u3i
~n
w3se
wor03r13i)
6 pi5as
6 De3e50vC 
¦ k5es,0vC
6 DevX0,0ev0vC
JUST-A-CUT
only S-J0.00
D8, ev3u
237 Atwood Street
687-3500
To read on our beach, Preregister by mail; we’ll save you
you have to book in advance. a seat (and send you a reading list).
Dr33 E4MRR4kPhf2 hN ’0v P330ve0sV mr33 ©RMB-&E4-EE-G e5 ar03 ,O0s me8yevd

---------------------------------------------------

12The Tartan • Carnegie Mellon • 18 March 1991
Recent LAPD beating wallops chief
George F. Will
Try this. Slam a sofa cushion 
with a baseball bat. Now do it 55 
more times. Is your arm weary?
Three Los Angeles officers 
shared the labor of administering 
to:their victim at least 56 blows 
with clubs, hard enough to cause 
fillings to fly from his teeth, 
fracturing his eye socket, smash­
ing his cheek bone, causing a skull 
concussion and facial nerve 
damage and breaking a leg.
He also suffered burns from an 
electric stun gun and damage to 
internal organs. He will never 
fully recover and may have brain 
damage.
Daryl Gates, Los Angeles police 
chief, says he is distressed. What 
distresses others is the fact that 
he is still chief.
Apparently the principle of ac­
countability, never strong in 
American government, has be­
come attenuated to the point of 
disappearance.
Gates can be called the Eight 
Million Dollar Man. Just in the 
last year that sum has been 
awarded to victims of Los Ange­
les police misconduct.
iThere will be two commas in 
the sum awarded to the man 
whose savage beating by some of 
Gates’ men was recorded by a 
citizen with a video camera.
-After almost committing homi­
cide, but before they knew they 
had been filmed, Gates’ officers 
compounded their criminality by
Daryl Gates, LA. police chief, says he 
is distressed. What distresses 
others is the fact that he is still chief. 
Apparently the principle of account­
ability ... has become attenuated to 
the point of disappearance.
filing a report filled with lies.
They said the victim had been 
driving 115 mph in his Hyundai. 
The manufacturer says that the 
car can’t go that fast.
The officers wrote that they used 
force to stop the victim from 
fighting.
Witnesses and the camera say 
that the victim was passive while 
being clubbed and stomped for 
two minutes by the three officers 
as 12 other officers watched.
So Gates “apologized.” Sort of. 
“In spite of the fact that [the vic­
tim] is on parole and a convicted 
robber, I’d be glad to apologize.”
“In spite of?” Gates’ ugly inti­
mation is that a police mini-riot is 
at least a little bit justified if the 
victim has a bad enough past.
Gates once said that perhaps 
the reason several blacks have 
died after being subdued by police 
choke holds is that blacks are 
more vulnerable than “normal” 
people to such holds. (Twenty- 
seven people have died after such 
holds during Gates’ 13-year ten­
ure.)
Gates may not be at his best 
when thinking and talking, but 
the problem is not that he is no 
Pericles.
It is that his department is de­
monstrably guilty of an intoler­
able level of abuse, much of it 
resulting from racism.
Gates sees no racial aspect to 
the videotaped beating. But when 
three white men club and stomp a 
black man while a dozen other 
white men watch, well, people 
will talk.
They did when Jamaal Wilkes, 
who is black and a former star 
with the Lakers, was handcuffed 
because his auto registration was 
about to—yes, about to—expire.
Joe Morgan, who is black and a 
Hall of Fame second baseman, 
was thrown to the ground and 
handcuffed when cops decided he 
looked like a drug dealer.
Later the cops said “oops!” and 
a court said: Pay Mr. Morgan 
$540,000.
The latest episode was recorded 
in the most appalling video of a 
racial incident since the Alabama
police riot at Selma’s Edmund 
Pettus Bridge in 1965.
How many beatings and other 
indignities are being suffered by 
Los Angeles citizens who are 
neither famous nor fortunate 
enough to have their experience 
of police misconduct videotaped? 
The burden now rests on the po­
lice department to disprove the 
assumption shared by 54 percent 
of all L.A. residents, that blacks 
are particularly subjected to bru­
tality.
Gates has long been a special 
pin-up of the kind of conserva­
tives who cotton to primitivism, 
as in his thoughts that casual 
drug users should be shot.
But he is a special problem for 
thoughtful conservatives who are 
having a hard enough time con­
vincing Congress to expand some 
police powers.
Every policeman present at the 
scene of that police crime should, 
at a minimum, be fired. Some, 
probably most, perhaps all, should 
go to jail.
And what of Gates — who is 
paid $168,793, by the way — to 
produce a police force better than 
his Los Angeles department is?
Police work is frequently dan­
gerous and even more often un­
pleasant.
It can be desensitizing and de­
moralizing — literally de-moral- 
izing. It requires special strength 
of character to do this indispens­
able work right, day by day and 
night after night, without suc­
cumbing to callousness, disgust 
and rage.
HERBLOCK S CARTOON
"THE CHIEF AN? THE MAYOR MEAN BUSINESS— PROM m on, KEEP A SHARP LOOKOUT FOR VIPEO CAMERAS'1
Most police officers lead lives of 
heroic resistance to these weak­
nesses. Minimizing those weak­
nesses is a test of police leader­
ship.
Gates has failed that test too 
often. His department is illus­
trating, redundantly, an iron law
operating throughout American 
government and business: When 
there is no penalty for failure, 
failures proliferate.
George F. Will is a syndicated 
columnist with the Washington 
Post Writers Group.
Letters to the Editor
LETTERS, from page 8
media for the forum through which to 
raise your totally unfounded opinion. 
Need I beg the question any further.
Yet, I will. Your letter serves as a 
horrific example of a commonly held mis­
led opinion about the Women’s Center 
and feminism, in general. Not all femi­
nists are lesbians or male “bashers.” 
There are many forms of feminism, as 
well.
Feel free to use our library, located in 
the actual Women’s Center, for material 
to educate yourself on feminism and the 
Women’s Center itself. Clearly, you need 
to do this, so in the future you may avoid 
making rash judgements based on no 
experience with the discourse you are 
criticizing (if this is something you care 
about).
You are also welcome to attend our 
Collective meetings, open to everyone, 
held at 3 pm Sundays at the Women’s 
Center. The Women’s Issues Collective 
is currently made up of women, men, 
heterosexuals, homosexuals, people of 
color, faculty, and staff. More divergent 
than you thought.
When you said, “What I see through 
the posters and other such crap being 
displayed on walls and on the front of the 
Women’s Center is not a place for women 
to go for support and friendship” (acutely 
awkward grammar there, Steffany), were 
you speaking of the Stop Rape group?
Or the window display of names of 
black women and their achievements for 
Black History Month?
. Or of the date and time for an educa­
tional video on how to detect breast 
cancer?
• Or of the announcement for a discus­
sion group about whether or not there is 
a feminist aesthetic? Let’s get specific so 
you and I may have a clear discussion.
What posters were you exactly using 
as references for this comment? Or do 
you refrain from recollecting because
these things might not apply to you? 
What are some examples in your life of 
how you have remained autonomous to 
problems related to being a woman and/ 
or sexism? I think it is truly sad, Steffany, 
that you do not feel a Stop Rape group is 
a valid response to our campus’ slow 
reaction (and that is an understatement) 
to the needs of sexually harassed women.
The Women’s Center serves as host to 
many groups of people and their opin­
ions. Everyone from the Asian Students 
Association to the Lesbian Discussion 
Group to Women Graduate Students in 
Science uses the Women’s Center as a 
place to feel safe and listened to on a 
male-dominated campus — the ratio is 
nearly three to one male to female.
We work towards pushing for new 
policies on campus for the sexually ha­
rassed, protesting sexist portrayal of 
women on this campus, providing infor­
mation about women’s health-related is­
sues, hosting educational lectures and 
videos about women and their careers, 
and providing a space for women to feel 
comfortable working, eating, and being 
together (free coffee and tea included); 
the list continues....
I will say it again: I will not be pa­
tronized into a role, stemming out of 
your ignorance of the Women’s Center, 
of “insecure lesbian feminist.” You call 
the Women’s Center male bashers, but 
aren’t you bashing us? What is the dif­
ference?
I hope, Steffany, that you will consider 
what I have said as an alternative to 
your brazen crap. I cannot conceive of 
where your thought on the Women’s 
Center originated. Are you acting out of 
anger and guilt for yourself derived from 
the inability to stand with your sisters? 
Maybe you should point the finger of 
insecurity at yourself.
Jen Saffron 
Junior, Art
Organizations ought to 
acknowledge funding
Editor:
I was walking along 
in one of the academic 
buildings, when one of 
the Greek Sing posters 
happened to catch my
9i,,i5 ,e 
,Oi .X0,e5
eye. One of the things that I happened to 
particularly notice was the complete ab­
sence of any mention of it being partly 
funded ($1700+) by my Activities Fee.
Originally, this letter was going to be a 
complaint about Greek Sing. Then I started 
looking at some of the other posters. To be 
honest, I was very surprised.
The Computer Club failed to mention 
the Fee, as did AB’s posters for both ver­
sions of The Freshman. cmuOut’s posters 
lacked it, and so did one of the two versions 
ofthe CMU Riding Club’s advertisements.
Other offenders were Spirit and the 
Women’s Center (notably their ad for the 
women’s only slumber party).
What’s going on here?
I snagged a nearby member of Student 
Senate’s Funding & Recognition Commit­
tee and obtained a copy ofthe Fiscal Policy 
dated February 1990.
Section 10 of the Fiscal Policy reads as 
follows:
10.15 Percent Rule: a) If more than 15 
percent of an organization’s budget is fi­
nanced by Student Senate, then all ad­
vertising and printed material [emphasis 
theirs] of that organization must include 
the words: “Funded by Student Senate,” 
“Supported by Student Senate,” “Funded 
by your Activities Fee,” or “Supported by 
your Activities Fee.”
b) Any organization receiving less than 
15 percent of their budget from Student 
Senate must include the words: “Funded 
in part by Student Senate,” “Supported in 
part by Student Senate,” “Funded in part 
by your Activities Fee,” or “Supported in 
part by your Activities Fee.”
I’ve been advised by a former Senator 
that the above rule was modified to make 
the percentage higher, but that was the 
only change.
Now, I don’t claim to know the exact 
percentages of each organization’s budget 
that comes from the Activities Fee, but all 
of the above organizations should have 
had some mention of Senate or the Fee on 
their posters. They don’t. Even The Stu­
dent Union has taken to the catchy phrase 
“funded by da fee.”
The whole point of this policy is to help 
distinguish which groups are funded and 
which aren’t. Frankly, it’s getting kind of 
tough to tell.
I don’t know whether I should be upset 
at Student Senate for not enforcing their 
own policies, or at the organizations who 
are violating them. Probably both.
C’mon, folks. Is it that hard to find room 
for a single phrase? Print it upside-down 
or sideways, for all I care. But, please, put 
it on your posters.
Jay Laefer
Junior, Math/Computer Science
A Phi O should consider 
computer voting
9i,,i5 ,e 
,Oi .X0,e5
Editor:
After skimming 
through countless ar­
ticles in recent issues of 
The Tartan concerning 
the bungling of this 
year’s election and the abysmally low 
student turnouts, I believe that Alpha Phi 
Omega should consider using a little bit of 
Roosevelt-style wild experimentation in 
their handling of the election.
Put simply, a five percent turnout for 
the student elections is unrealistically low. 
Obviously, an effort should be made to 
increase this turnout: the simplest strat­
egy would be to make voting an easier arid 
more convenient process for the students.
Although I may be radically off, my six 
weeks at pre-college tended to hint to­
wards the idea that the majority of stu­
dents — or at least the MCS and CIT 
students — tend to use the Andrew work­
stations quite a bit. Therefore, why not try 
shifting the elections over to the Andrew 
network?
I am sure that a program could be easily 
written to send each student email with 
candidate information and choices. The 
student would only need to reply during a 
given election week. Finally, another pro­
gram could be written to scan through the 
votes and tally a final count while main­
taining a secret ballot.
Another possibility would be to use the 
Macintoshes: set up an “Election” file 
server with a student voting program to 
use through the AppleTalk network. Al­
though Macintoshes would be simpler to 
use since they are more accessible and 
' popular, using an insecure system would 
cause a minor dilemma of, “How do you 
know if someone is voting twice?” Ofcourse, 
this problem could be solved by either 
requiring student ID ùumbers — which 
everyone knows, which of course is also 
the problem: Everyone knows them!—or 
passwords of a sort.
Besides simply being a neat idea, I be­
lieve that many more students would be 
inclined to vote under this system: when 
voting simply consists of clicking a few 
mouse buttons before starting a work 
session rather than having to trudge 
through thè pouring rain to drop off a 
ballot, voting becomes more appealing. If 
not, how could the number of votes actu­
ally fall any lower than they are now? 
While this won’t bring CMU to election 
Nirvana, it would at least be a hyperspace 
jump in the right direction!
Eli Goldberg 
St. Johnsbury, VT
Sponsored 6y %odef Shaiom and $ nai $ 'ritfi Jûliei
WE’RE MORE THAN A MAILBOX!
¦ Private Mail Box Rental.
• Office Supplies
• Packing and Shipping
¦ Business Cards
.24 hour access• UPS, DHL, Overnight Letters
• Photocopies
• Passport Photos, etc...
¦ FAX Service
gi, ,Oi crs,is, ET2 Tic8vX r, FwP9 lxX.2 .nDd
Postal Business and Communication ServicesAM1L BOXES ETC. USA
414 SOUTH CRAIG STREET 687-6100 "IbelbilbvRoI"rtlS blruaIunls relbdl a "rublyil hdsldh

---------------------------------------------------

Stars shine at 43rd IM Night
PRESS PASS By JASON MCDONALD
by Jason McDonald Tartan Assistant Sports Editor
,ts ,Oi viU 
x3uay0m sye5,
I often tend to doubt the 
reality level of the “traditions” 
here at Carnegie Mellon. For 
instance, I highly question 
whether anyone rubs the nose 
’Schlag anymore; I bet 
physical Plant just hits the nose 
with Tafti-X once a week. But 
this week, I exposed myself to 
one of tlie few CMU traditions 
that has'stood the test of time 
. traying.
Okay, traying hasn’t exactly 
been around since the days of 
the Puritans, but it’s a time- 
honored venter activity on this 
mray8sd For those of you who 
don’t know, traying is the art of 
riding dowji very steep hills on 
i ordinary Dining Service 
meal tray. •
When it suddenly began to 
snow last Wednesday, a friend 
i me if',1 would be inter­
ested in goi&g on a traying 
expedition. I had only even tried 
i once before, but I suc­
cumbed to Wind chill on the way 
to Flagstaff Hill. Since the wind 
was light on;this particular 
evening and ¡1 had little else to 
, I decided1 that I might as 
well tag along.
Getting the trays was a 
surprisingly easy task. When 
you have advance notice of a 
traying trip, you can just 
stockpile over the course of a 
day or two. If it’s an impromptu 
trip like ours was, it gets a bit 
tougher ... unless Dining Ser­
vice leaves a big stack of them 
lying right by the door for you. 
The suckers never knew what 
hit them.
By the way, when you’re 
picking your trays, avoid the 
3 brown ones; I’ve been told 
they don’t run very well. Always 
try to get the hard plastic ones, 
which are either red or greenish 
blue, depending on where you 
get them.
Our group of six started out 
by heading to the tennis courts, 
where we found that we weren’t 
alone in our quest. About 
twenty people in all were 
hurling themselves down the 
hill; I got the general impres­
sion that you’re supposed to hit 
the tennis court fence as hard 
as possible. Unfortunately, I 
couldn’t accomplish that heroic 
feat; I had to settle for hitting a 
bump and doing an end-over- 
end somersault down the hill — 
three different times on three 
different bumps.
After we tired of the tennis 
courts, or more precisely, when 
the grass began to show 
trough, we moved over to the 
bill by CFA. The clever game we 
tome up with was to see how 
dose you could get to the tree 
without hitting it. Cover the 
lext paragraph and see if you 
can figure out where this is >°ing.
Trees do not have much give 
when you plow into them — the 
Jysicist in me would describe 
be event as a small-inertia 
impacting one of larger 
Mia, with the usual predict- 
! 1® results. Luckily, I got my 
out in front of me; the pain 
'fetty much stayed put in my 
inkles.
The rest of the evening was 
)retty standard fare; that is to 
ay> * didn’t hit anything else. I 
¦as only out for a little more 
an an hour, but it was a 
Veek’s worth of fun. Make sure 
°°k for me on the hills next 
Vlnter; I’ll be the one steering 
Vel1 clear of the trees.
tffasori McDonald is a junior W major.
Another season of intramural 
basketball came to a close Thurs­
day night at the 43rd Annual IM 
Night. Sigma Tau Gamma, Navy 
ROTC, and Alpha Tau Omega 
came away as the champions of 
intramural basketball’s three di­
visions — minors, intermediate, 
and majors.
Sjg Tau was the first big winner 
of the evening, defeating the Beta 
Mad Dogs, 46-36, to win the mi­
nor league championship. SigTau 
came up with 14 points from the 
foul line in the fourth quarter to 
pull out the win. Freshman Chris 
Koszarsky led the Sig Tau attack 
with 21 points.
The first half featured very even 
play; Sig Tau went to the half 
with a slim 21-18 lead. Other 
than a 7-0 Sig Tau run early in 
the game, neither team scored 
more than three points in a row.
The.pattern held into the early 
part of the fourth quarter until 
Sig Tau hit four shots on a floor 
foul and a subsequent technical 
foul on Beta. With 4:57 remaining 
in the game, Sig Tau led by nine, 
and Beta’s growing momentum 
had been squelched. Beta pushed 
as close as five, but Sig Tau’s 
strong foul shooting iced the 46- 
36 win.
The second game of the evening, 
the intermediate championship, 
proved to be the most exciting as 
Theta Xi and the Navy A team 
battled into overtime. Theta Xi 
came from behind in regulation 
but fell in overtime, 37-33.
Freshman Stephen Lightfoot 
led the way for Navy with 11 
points. Theta Xi was led by junior 
Alan Horn and senior Steve 
McGowan; Horn ledthe team with 
13 points while McGowan added 
12.
nrX fem!s,rXi5Bnr5,rv Dev,5018,0vC .X0,e5 
Theta Xi’s Alan Horn knocks the ball away from Navy guard Stephen 
Lightfoot.
The wheels came off Theta Xi’s 
wagon at the foul line; two Theta Xi’s 
fouled out of the game and only two 
of Navy’s eight overtime points came 
from the field.
The game looked more like a 
track meet; turnovers and the 
transition game were dominant 
while clean shots were almost 
nonexistent. The defensive battle 
only resulted in six points; Theta 
Xi held a 4-2 lead at the first 
intermission.
The offense picked up in the 
second quarter but was confined 
to a couple of key shots. Horn and 
Lightfoot each hit a pair of three- 
pointers to provide the bulk of the 
scoring. At the half, Theta Xi had
widened its lead to three points, 
14-11.
Navy took control of the third 
quarter, holding Theta Xi score­
less for the entire eight minutes 
as well as forcing their way into 
the bonus. With Theta Xi in foul 
trouble and Navy on a roll, it 
seemed as if Navy was poised to 
run away with the game.
It didn’t happen, though, mostly 
because Navy got in foul trouble 
too. Within the first two minutes, 
Theta Xi had the bonus as well,
nrr eemJs,rri5B0r5,rv 8ev,50y8,aC cmX0,e5 
Beta’s Matt Pielert beats ATO’s Brian Lippert to the opening tip.
allowingitto remain close enough 
to make a run on Navy. The Theta 
Xi run came together in the final 
minute as it hit a pair of baskets 
to force overtime with the score 
knotted at 29.
The wheels came off Theta Xi’s 
wagon at the foul line; two Theta 
Xi’s fouled out of the game and
only two of Navy’s eight overtime 
points came from the field as Navy 
prevailed, 37-33. of1-
After a trophy ceremony for th$ 
winners of previously completed 
intramural sports, the majors 
championship got under way. 
ATO, returning most of their team 
Please see BASKETBALL, page 14
Unbeaten men’s lacrosse picks up two wins
By STEPHEN KANG
Special to the Tartan
The CMU lacrosse team is still 
undefeated in the Pennsylvania League 
with a record of 5-0 after playing the 
Frostburg State team on Saturday and 
Pittsburgh Lacrosse Club team on Sun­
day.
On Saturday, CMU came out shooting 
from the beginning, completely taking 
Frostburg out of its game plan. The final 
score was 11-5‘with CMU playing one of 
its best offensive games of the year. Senior 
Rob Kendall scored four goals, with gradu­
ate student Bayard Johnson getting two 
goals, senior Todd Bredbenner with one 
goal, senior John Seekings with two goals,
freshman Rick Kieser with one goal, and 
freshman Dan Afrik finishing the scoring 
with one goal.
The game was owned by CMU from the 
beginning, as Frostburg’s goalie was 
shelled heavily by the CMU attack. One of 
the highlights of the game was CMU se­
nior goalie Peter Vonderlieth, who ran the 
ball all the way to the other end of the field 
and shot at the opponent’s goal.
On Sunday, CMU played a tougher game 
against the aged and experienced Pitts­
burgh Lacrosse Club. CMU coaches Bill 
Elliott and Gerry Costanza both argued 
with the referees as the game went on. 
Despite some disputed calls, CMU came 
back in the fourth quarter, while down by 
the score of 11-8. Carnegie Mellon scored
With its revamped bench this year; CMU 
outplayed and outlasted Pittsburgh Lacrosse 
Club in the last quarter.
five consecutive goals, using bench depth. 
With its revamped bench this year, CMU 
outplayed and outlasted Pittsburgh La­
crosse Club in the last quarter. The final 
score was 15-12.
Kendall continued his offensive prowl, 
scoring five goals. Johnson also scored five 
goals. Senior Phil Kaplan and junior Steve 
Ramey each scored a goal. Finally, 
Seekings showed his shooting talent by 
scoring three goals from 25 yards out.
Now, the CMU lacrosse team goes to 
spring break undefeated with high. mor 
mentum and expectations for the rest of 
the season. There will be a Pittsburgh 
Invitational Tournament being played at 
CMU’s Gesling Stadium from April 5-7. )!t 
will be televised on cable and is being 
sponsored by Coors Light. Even though 
teams coming from all over the north­
western region will be tough, CMU is ex­
pected to fare well in this tournament. .
Women’s lacrosse returns to action after two-year hiatus
By ALIM RAY
Tartan Sports Editor
The Carnegie Mellon women’s 
lacrosse club lost its first compe­
tition of the season away against 
the University of Pittsburgh, 16- 
1 on Saturday.
“They had a lot of people who 
played before,” Carolyn 
Pfatteicher, graduate student and 
captain, said. The largest differ­
ence in experience was between 
the goalies. Junior Inge Swenson, 
the Carnegie Mellon starting 
goalie, could not attend the game. 
Hilory Kahn, a goalie who had 
had only practiced once before, 
started.
The CMU players would have 
gotten more experience if they 
had played a scrimmage against 
Shadyside Academy on Thursday. 
The scrimmage was snowed out.
Saturday’s match was sched­
uled to be at Pitt’s IM fields but 
was moved to Pitt Stadium be­
cause the Pitt baseball team was 
practicing on the fields. Conse­
quently, CMU graduate student 
Bernice Chen arrived in the sec­
ond half because she couldn’t find 
the game.
Only 12 of CMU’s 30 players 
were at the match, so there were 
no substitutes available for CMU. 
Pitt had 30 players and was able 
to keep its experienced people in 
for most of the game. In the sec­
ond half the second string goalie, 
graduate student Hilory Kahn, 
was injured, and the third string 
goalie, graduate student Corina 
M.Rios, was put in goal. She had 
practiced less than a day.
The team’s performance was 
also affected by the fact that CMU 
had not played a game for the 
past two years. The local schools 
in this area, such as Duquesne 
and Robert Morris, do not have 
women’s lacrosse teams, so CMU 
has had to play schools farther 
away this year to compete.
When asked about the team’s 
future, Pfatteicher said, “I think 
it was a good experience for some 
[new] people...1. I’m not discour­
aged by the first game. Our next 
game [against Winchester 
Thurston high school on April 31 
will be better.”
JesO k5iiarvBnr5,rv pOe,e 2,rcc FrvrCi5
Carolyn Pfatteicher, captain of the CMU women’s lacrosse team, attempts to beat the University of 
Pittsburgh defense.

---------------------------------------------------

The Tartan • Carnegie Mellon • 18 March 1991
JesO k5iiarvBnr5,rv pOe,e 2,rcc FrvrCi5
CMU rugby drops two over weekend
¦ .
t 'Æ
M. :ktelume Hn
Junior Charlie Jankowski attempts to stop the ball carrier as senior Neil Talsania and freshman Bill Lucier rush to his assistance.
By ALIM RAY
Tartan Sports Editor
Carnegie Mellon’s rugby club had 
rough time Saturday, losing to the 
Altoona Men’s club, 16-10, and Juniata 
8-0, in Juniata’s tournament.
The only Carnegie Mellon scoring ij 
the two games was in the Altoona game, 
Senior scrum half Pete Low scored a try 
along with Bill Lucier. Senior Joe 
Schwerha scored the points after foi 
Lucier's try.
The game against Juniata was a better 
game overall, according to senior captain 
Chris Devlin, even though Carnegit 
Mellon was shut out. “We held them 
until the last 40 minutes. We just got 
sloppy at the end and they scored two 
quick trys.”
• CMU did not have its best players on 
the field during the tournament. Thirtj 
players usually come to games but then 
were only 15 on Saturday. Out of thosi 
15 only half of the club’s “A” team was 
present.
To add to a frustrating weekend, senioi 
Neil Talsania broke his nose during the 
first game but continued to play in the 
second.
The next competition for CMU will be 
the Universtiy of Pittsburgh af 
JohnstownBloodToumamentSaturday, 
April 6. There will be six teams at the 
UPJ tournament, including Altoona and 
Juniata.
Devlin admits the team is not as stronj 
as he believed. “We have to put up 
better showing at UPJ.”
kPhw9 kxNT
Indianapolis, Indiana 
March 30 
April 1
Protect Your Thesis
NCAA Division I “Sweet 16”
.
w
2
n
North Carolina
E. Michigan
.rs, T8,Oi5ce5XV 
hiU Ji5siu
Tucson,
Arizona
Oklahoma State
Temple
Seton Hall
Arizona
Yii!ivX l8cci, 
AU you can eat only— $6.95 
Friday & Saturday 5-9:00 
p.m.
Sunday 12:00-3:00 p.m.
2Thea ree Restaurant
For take out call:
621-6199
m m
Daily Lunch Special
• one entree over rice •
• with chefs special soup •
• and served with tea •
• and fortune cookie •
• only — $3.79 •
4609 Centre Ave.,
N. Oakland/Shadyside Area 
(across from Giant Eagle)
kinko's
the copy cemer
IlnilK iimr llu-M- tu Kinin» i Clas I Vi Hit Ini cn(ilf>
und ptntr>'iniial Imidin): «tmcí-
3710 Forbes Ave.
xcci5 .Iy05is 
wy503 18V 1991
TOSHIBA
jöi 
: v.«gm- LaPtoPs
EXTRA Special Prices 
OUR ENTIRE STOCK! 
LIMITED TIME ONLY!!!
UNIVERSITY DISCOUNTS
vv ^ f2TV PhD @^9 Call 800-875-0037
6AP2w z Fw2n.TDwTf wmmiy,iX
fng
CELEBRATE
SPRING BREAK ‘91 IN FT. LAUDERDALE AT
FT. LAUDERDALES 
PREMIERE CONCERT AND 
NIGHT CLUB 
18 YEARS AND OLDER 
ev ,Oi 1irmO ADMITTED
___ 10 A.M. to 6 P.M. POOLSIDE PARTIES
9PA. fdJd .FD..Phg pxx92Pf. Dxhn.2n 6 Ywn.T Ax99.”lw99 nxNThwF.hn 6 kT. 
n42KPTn T.9w”2 6 nK. l.99”k9xp Dxhn.2n whf D9PFwX nK. fw” YPnKddd 
2NFF.T2 kwFxN2 g42nTPhg lPJPhP Dxhn.2n 6 Dw2K pTPZ.2 6 kT..n42KPTP1 
whf xnK.T gPA.wYw”2
7 P.M. TO 8:30 P.M.
COLLEGE HAPPY HOUR 
CARNEGIE MELLON PARTY * THURSDAY, MARCH 28
kT.. 2TPhg lT.wJ ‘&E n42KPTn YPnK pwPf wfFP22Pxh kxT wlxA. Dx99.g. 
2nNf.hn2 l.nY..h © z M)(R pdFd YPnK pTxp.T Dx99.g. Pdfd
ALL BAR DRINKS AND DRAFT BEER $0.75 
DxFp.n. Ph Dxhn.2n2 kxT pTPZ.2H
EVENINGS
SUMMERS ON THE BEACH PRESENTS...FURY
FT. LAUDERDALE'S FINEST ROCK Y ROLL BAND 
NIGHTLY PLAYING THE BEST DANCE MUSIC- 
PLUS 6 BARS TO SERVE YOU!
§»<DNp z 2wA.4444444444444444444444444444444444444444444444444444444444444444444444D9Pp z 2wA.“Q
DwTh.gP. F.99xh pwTn” * nKNT2fw”V FwTDK WM 
xh. kT.. lwT fTPhJ xT fTwkn xT 2xkn fTPhJ 
gxxf kTxF ©4M)(R pdFd hPgKn9” 
’9PFPn xh. p.T DN2nxF.TG
28aai5s ev ,05i lirmO 
WE& 2d w,3rv,0m l3oXd 6 k,d 9r8Xi5Xr3iV k9 6 ’(R^G -*W4M&©M 
ILOCATED 1/2 BLOCK NORTH OF LAS OLAS BLVD. ON A1A)
wfFP22Pxh px9PD”) EM ”.wT2 xk wg. xT x9f.T Y.9DxF.
SPRING BREAK ‘91
nrX fem!s,rXi5Bnr5,rv Dev,5018,0vC .X0,e5
Theta Xi’s Alan Horn attempts to stop the progress of Navy guard James Scarcelli.
ATO, Beta, Sig Tau take titles
BASKETBALL, from page 13
from last year’s 52—49 champion­
ship loss to Up & In, defeated a 
previously unbeaten Beta squad, 
44-39, to take the title.
Early on, it seemed as if Beta 
had the game well under control. 
ATO’s outside shots weren’t fall­
ing, and Beta had the stronger 
team on the boards. Unfortu­
nately for Beta, their advantage 
; didn’t translate into many points 
; as they took a 10-8 first quarter 
¡lead.
i ATO took control in the second 
! quarter, led by senior Don DeCaro.
! DeCaro scored eight of his game- 
high 12 points in the first-half to 
¡lead ATO to a 17-14 halftime 
j advantage. The IM board would 
¡award DeCaro MVP honors for 
I his performance.
The third quarter focused on
the inside battle, and ATO finally 
wrenched control of the boards 
from Beta. Beta senior John 
Riesmeyer Scored eight third- 
quarter points to carry Beta, but 
sophomore Bryan Lyscik and se­
nior Brian Lippert give ATO con­
trol under the basket. At the end 
of the third quarter, ATO held a 
29-22 lead and carried a definite 
momentum advantage to the final 
period.
Although the fourth quarter 
was eight minutes long, the game 
was effectively over with 4:46 left 
when Beta gave ATO the bonus. 
The effect on the game was indi­
rect — ATO only scored seven 
points off of the 12 bonus fouls — 
but Beta was unable to get any 
rhythm on offense. Five points is 
the closest Beta would get down 
the stretch as ATO walked away
with the title.
The women’s championship and 
the finals of the minors NIT were 
held on Wednesday night. In the 
women’s final, the Titanettes 
crushed SUPA by a final score of 
33-6. In the minors NIT, Delta 
Upsilon came from behind to beat 
the Athletic Supporters in the fi­
nal 19 seconds, 35-34.
Arkansas
IndianaDuke
pev,0rmV
F0mO0Crv Q ^Connecticut
Alabama
Kansas
DOr53e,,iV 
he5,O Dr5e30vr

---------------------------------------------------

The Tartan • Carnegie Mellon • 18 March 1991
IM News
SPORTS IN SEASON
Commissioner 
juddy Feitt, x3947
)arts<ornmissioner 
Romeo, x8335
{ackgamon
'otiirnisioner 
iuddy Feitt, x3947
¡ridge
'ominissioner 
¡ich Romeo, x8335
All scores must be reported to the com- 
nissioner or the IM Office, x2214.
landball
Commissioner 
!.J. Birdy, x2214
The final entry date is Thursday.
Inochile 
Commissioner 
iuddy Feitt, x3947
FLOOR HOCKEY
IAJ0RS
eXX Tem!ecc
3i,r peey0v lrvX0,s
ryyr 20C
’Jw
ITERMEDIATE
¡VISION A 
5iiv wmis 
2Pw '91 
w.w
Oi,r X0 nearOrU!s 
8m!OirXs
WL
2 0
Schedules are out and can be picked up 
in the IM Office. Please reprt the scores 
of your matches to Buddy at x3947.
Faculty/Grad Volleyball
Commissioner 
Chris Yount, x7113 
Matches will be played on Sundays 
6:30 pm.
Water Basketball
A commissioner has not yet been ap­
pointed. The schedule are out and 
matches are being played on Tuesday 
and Wednesday nights at 9 and 10 pm. 
The certified lifeguard is Bridget 
Eperthener, x3924.
IM Real Man Wrestling
Commissioner:
Bill Cheeseman, x8332 
Chris Fermece, x4791 
Scott Quarles, x7516 
Practice sessions will be held in the 
Blue room in the gym, starting March 6. 
The Eighth Annual Real Man Wrestling 
Tournament will be held in Thistle Hall 
on Saturday April 6 at 10 am. Weigh-in
wnx xoi5s0LiX 9erXs 2 10
feOi5,u f0vesr85s 12 0
Y03X xvis 0 3 0
WOMEN’S LEAGUE
nOi,r 10 0
Je33u TrvmOi5s 110
Jryyr Jryyr graar 0 10
FACULTY-GRAD VOLLEYBALL 
MAJORS
lr5m5rU3i5s 4 1
will be Friday night, April 5 or Saturday 
at 9 am. Entries will be accepted until 
9:45 am on Saturday April 6.
Team and Co-Rec Badminton
Commissioner 
Mike Gryzwinski, 521—8977 
Badminton will be played Monday 
March 18, 6 to 8 pm in the main gym.
3 on 3 Basketball
Commissioner 
Buddy Feitt, x3947 
The tournament start dates are Tues­
day at 6:30 pm and Wednesday at 6:30 
pm in the main gym. Only five people on 
a team with 100 shots each; no varsity 
basketball players are allowed.
Basketball
Women’s finals were played Wednes­
day. Men’s finals were played Thursday.
Foul Shooting
Commissioner 
Buddy Feitt, x3947 
The foul shooting competition is today 
6:30 to 8:30 pm, tomorrow 8 to 9:30 pm,
IM Scoreboard
and Wednesday 7:30 to 9:30 pm in the 
main gym.
SPORTS DUE THURSDAY 
Co-Rec Table Tennis
Commissioner 
Jong Wei
Table Tennis, singles and doubles
Commissioner 
Jong Wei
Call Pool, team and individual
Commissioner 
Andy Segal
Wight Lifting
A commissioner has not yet been ap­
pointed.
Indoor Soccer
A commissioner has not yet been ap­
pointed.
Swimming
Commissioner 
Tom Fabian, x8471
The swim meet will be held Wednes 
day April 10 at 4:30 pm CMU pool pos 
entries.
Softball
A commissioner has not yet been as 
signed. Softball will be played in th 
stadium.
UPCOMING SPORTS
The Intramural Department will con 
duct a Bowl-a-Thon to help the Junio 
Achievement of Southwest Pennsylva 
nia. You may bowl as a five-person team 
or as an indvidual.
To enter, pick up your team captain’ 
packet or indvidual sponsor sheet in th 
Intramural office. You must arrange fo 
a sponsor to pledge a certain amount fo 
every pin you knock down. The date anc 
time of the Bowl-a-Thon will be an 
nounced at a later date. For any addi 
tional information, please stop in the I1V 
Office or call Earl J. Birdy, x2214.
Compiled b 
ALIM RAY
hi,Ue5!i5s4EF8 w3yOr nOi,r3WPnD peUi5 2y0!is4E2w.E x
2yumOe3W2Npw2,r5s3W28Xs8m!i5sWWg5iiv wmisE R
90vi f50oi3Wli,,i5 xcc firXWWTe1eg5rXsWWli,r lirmOiX YOr3is 0 1
nOi FissrCi prssi5s3Wf0C nO0sW3TiaiX0r,e5sWWpO0 Jryyr nOi,rR E
nOi Tim85s0oi 2i,sW3l0e4KrLr5XsW3wvevuae8sWW
Te1e2y0!isE398ayiv Pv,i33im,8r3sE3.ppREDIVSION B
ge85XsE32arsO K0,sE4wnPE3hrou wE xQ
FimOrv0mr3 .vC0vii50vCE42i5oi5s ec D,O83O8R5nOi n0Ci5sE3nOi,r X0E x
n5ii K8CCi5sR4li,r 250R E
INTERMEDIATEMINORSp0evii5sR E
KiXCiOeCs c5ea Ki334E2y0!iX p8vmO5RWATER BASKETBALLCompiled by
2y0!is ev ,Oi 90vi4ETe330vC nO8vXi54RDIVISION AALIM RAY
fllNORS
msiON B
0evii5s 3 0 0
¡w.l 10 1
es,leus EER
Fe,Oi5 p8m!i5s 0 2 1
3roul R W R
Research hrhabi
lo choose from - all subjects 
^Gualog Today wiih Visa/MC or COD
MRR4(^E4RWWW¿Ml,
C=siorn Avc' #206-SN ife Angeles. CA 90025 ‘ .^Mch available- ail levels
nTwA.9
RELATED
SERVICESCALL 1-800-942-AMEX
If you're already a Cardmember, (here’s no need to call. Information about your certificates will be arriving soon.CONTINENTAL
WSION B 
ro Heat
heta Xi Patriots 
ee w
etter Off Dead
1VISI0N A
heta X0 Kim3!iarv0rms 2 0 0
¡3ra w 2 10
Pw 2 10
.p0 0 2 0
DR 0 2 0
MSION C
ka3 0 0
ID2 0 0
eta Mad Dogs110
leta Xi Ded0 2 0
laphappy0 3 0
DIVISION D
arth’s Gang110
thletic Supporters3 0 0
igTau B110
sanglant Comme...12 0
fchwarzeneggers0 2 0
MISION E
JO Hackers2 0 0
lavy A2 0 1
hi Kap BOil
itense Rectal Itch12 0
load Kill0 2 0
VISION F
lo Equipment2 0 0
'«Pha Delta2 0 0
Univers12 0
“fíalo Chips12 0
IfiC0 2 0
fisiIb y
*6 Tau A3 0 0
lenads3 0 0
j"13 Lambda Gamma110
styof12 0
ludge Bl0 2 0U B0 3 0
*WS/0N H
Cuatíes2 0 0
hi Kap A2 0 0
«a F+L12 0
American Express Announces A Great New Travel Program.
Now students can get the Card 
and get 3 roundtrips on Continental 
Airlines, for only ¿29 or 1189 each.
There's only one way to cover a lot of territory without spending 
a lot of money. And that's by getting the American Express* Card. 
It's the only card that offers an exciting new travel program 
exclusively for students-including three roundtrip certificates on 
Continental Airlines.
Just look at the map and pick the place you’d like 
to visit. If it’s on your side of the Mississippi River, you 
can use a certificate to fly for only $129 roundtrip. Or, 
you can cross the Mississippi for $189 roundtrip.
You have your pick of more than 150 cities in the
48 contiguous states. And you can fly almost anytime—because 
there are no blackout dates. But you must make your reservations 
within 14 days of the day you leave. And the maximum stay is 
7 days/6 nights and must include a Saturday night.
In addition to this great travel program, you’ll also enjoy all 
the benefits of Cardmembership as well as other exclusive student 
privileges. They include a quarterly magazine filled with informa­
tive articles on summer jobs, careers, campus life. Plus valuable 
discounts from leading retailers.
But remember, there’s only one way to get all this-and that’s 
by getting the American Express Card. Just call us (have your bank 
address and account number on hand). What’s more, 
with our special student offer, it's'easier to get the 
Card now while you're still in school than it may 
ever be again.
So get the Card. And get ready to cover new 
territory on either side of our Great Continental Divide.

---------------------------------------------------

16The Tartan • Carnegie Mellon • 18 March 1991
’91 promises to be the year of the repeat
NLWEST H rebuilding season for the Cards, to prevent them from winning the CaaC rnegrnii "DTiOxrcWest — in 1990 they committed Jr JL'L'iL©
The Reds, defending World I ALWEST 133 errors (third most in the
Champions, offer almost the same league). Coupled with their \VEgX NL EAST
lineup as last year. Their biggest ^ ’ The Oakland Athletics in 1991 pitching staff, this spells fifth pinninnati 1 Pi+tcfrnT’o-h
change was losing starting pitcher_¡imm_ hope to win themselves a fourth place. ’ ‘
The Reds, defending World 
Champions, offer almost the same 
lineup as last year. Their biggest 
change was losing starting pitcher 
Danny Jackson (6-6 with a 3.61 
ERA in 1990) to the Cubs via free 
agency. The Reds will fill 
Jackson’s place in the rotation 
with one of last year’s two rookie 
starters — Chris Hammond and 
• Scott Scudder. These two pitch­
ers, and the hopeful return to 
health of outfielder Eric Davis, 
give the Reds the early nod for the 
divisional title.
The Los Angeles Dodgers made 
a number of off-season acquisi­
tions, most notably signing free- 
agent outfielders Darryl Straw­
berry and Brett Butler. Many see 
the Dodgers as a lock to win the 
division title. However, a few 
weaknesses will likely give them 
another second place finish. First, 
their weak bullpen (last in the NL 
in saves in 1990) is likely to cause 
the Dodgers nightmares. Second, 
the predominance of left-handed 
hitters in the Dodgers lineup will 
make them vulnerable to strong 
lefty pitching. Five of the likely 
first six hitters (Butler, Straw­
berry, Kal Daniels and catcher 
Mike Scioscia) hit left-handed.
The San Diego Padres, like the 
Dodgers, hope their off-season 
activity will translate into more 
wins this year. Most notably, the 
Padres sent all-stars Roberto 
Alomar and Joe Carter to Toronto 
for all-stars Tony Fernandez and 
Fred McGriff. The Padres, fa­
vored by many sportswriters to 
win the division in 1990, finished 
a distant fifth place; the season 
ended withboth management and 
the players bickering about who 
was at fault. Although the accused 
agitators are gone (former 
firstbaseman Jack Clark and 
manager Jack McKeon), the Pa­
dres have a lot of bad feelings to 
put behind them if they are to 
win.
RoUnding out the division are 
Atlanta, San Francisco and 
Houston. Atlanta continues to 
rebuild with young stars, such as 
outfielders Ron Gant and Dave 
Justice. The Braves, however, 
need their young pitchers to start 
turning their potential into per­
formance—last year Atlanta had 
the NL’s worst team ERA.
San Francisco, despite a power 
laden lineup, looks to have a dis­
appointing season due to injuries 
and a shaky pitching staff. Los­
ing leadoff man Brett Butler in 
favor of Willie McGee (who strikes 
out too much and walks too little 
to be a good leadoff man) will not 
help, either.
Houston this winter was the 
site of a mass exodus of experi­
enced players this past winter. 
The team will now attempt to 
regain its. winning ways using 
inexperienced players.
NL EAST
The Pirates did not escape the 
past winter unscathed, losing 
first baseman Sid Bream (to At­
lanta) and reserve outfielder R. J. 
Reynolds (to Japan) via free-
dmm
THE MAJOR LEAGUES
by Rob Claydon
agency. They did, however, es­
cape the off-season catastrophe 
that many had envisioned. Re­
turning outfielders Barry Bonds, 
Bobby Bonilla and Andy Van 
Slyke, along with staff ace and Cy 
Young winner Doug Drabek, hope 
to lead the team to a second 
straight divisional title.
The Chicago Cubs splurged into 
the free agent market — signing 
free agent outfielder George Bell 
and pitchers Danny Jackson and 
Dave Smith — hoping to buy 
themselves a pennant. The addi­
tion of Bell gives the Cubs per­
haps the most potent offense in 
the league. But pitching is only 
half the game (or 80% — de­
pending upon who you talk to). 
Even with Jackson and Smith, 
the Cubs look to have a mediocre 
pitching staff.
The New York Mets — peren­
nially frustrating fans by being
rebuilding season for the Cards. 
ALWEST
The Oakland Athletics in 1991 
hope to win themselves a fourth 
straight divisional title and trip 
to the World Series. There are 
question marks — how Jose 
Canseco will perform with a bad 
back, or how much longer aging 
pitchers such as Dennis Eckersley 
and Dave Stewart will keep up 
their dominance of the league. 
Unless one of the other teams in 
the West is able to win 100 games, 
however, the A’s are likely to be in 
the playoffs again.
The California Angels plugged 
their two largest holes from last 
year — a competent third 
baseman and a lefty power hitter 
—with the off-season acquisitions 
of third baseman Gary Gaetti and 
designated hitter Dave Parker. 
These two, 32 and 39 years old 
respectively, join outfielder Dave 
Winfield (39) and catcher Lance 
Parrish (34) to form one of the 
oldest everyday lineups in base­
ball. So if the Angels are going to 
win the division, this year looks 
to be the time to do it.
The Chicago White Sox had a 
dream season last year. After 
inhabiting the lower half of the
The Pirates did not escape the past 
winter unscathedlosing Sid Bream 
(to Atlanta) and reserve outfielder R. 
J. Reynolds (to Japan).
the most talented team in the NL 
not to win anything—didn’t help 
their cause by losing outfielder 
Darryl Strawberry over the win­
ter. Sure, they now have the best 
base-stealer in team history 
(Vince Coleman), but 
Strawberry’s absence will hurt, 
nonetheless. The pitching looks 
to be less than it has in the past, 
too. Starting pitcher Sid 
Fernandez has a broken arm (and 
will be out at least several months) 
and Frank Viola is rumored to 
have bone chips in his elbow. All 
this does not bode well for the 
Mets chances of winning the east.
The Montreal Expos, a young 
team who surprised the rest of 
the league in 1990, looks to gain a 
little experience the hard way in 
1991. But the promise of more 
talented players from their minor 
league system, and a little experi­
ence to those already with the 
club, will make the Expos the 
team to watch in 1992.
The Phillies hope to continue a 
recent trend in 1991: yearly im­
proving their record. They fin­
ished fourth last year, after in­
habiting the NL East cellar the 
previous two years. Moving up 
again — this time to fourth — 
isn’t inconceivable should one of 
the above teams falter.
The St. Louis Cardinals, con­
sidered by many to “the team of 
the 1980s,” celebrated 1990 by 
finishing last — 25 games out of 
first. Most of the players which 
contributed to their success are 
now gone, and 1991 looks to be a
AL West for all of recent memory, 
the Sox won 25 more games than 
1989, posting the second best 
record in major league baseball. 
Unfortunately for them, the team 
with baseball’s best record — 
Oakland — won their division. 
This year the Sox hope the sea­
soning of some of last year’s rook­
ies and some off season trades can 
pull them to the top. However, 
history is against the Sox—most 
clubs (23 of 31 since 1950) who ’ 
improve by 20 or more wins in a 
single season tend to stagnate or 
regress the next year.
The Seattle Mariners may have 
assembled the best pitching staff 
in team history. While the Mari­
ners (who have never finished 
above .500 in any season of their 
existence) aren’t exactly compet­
ing with a rich baseball tradition, 
it is a remarkable accomplish­
ment nonetheless. The Mariners 
also boast some offensive threats, 
such as emerging superstar Ken 
Griffey Jr. Speaking of the Griffey 
name, junior and senior (who 
made history last year by being 
the first father and son to play on 
the same team) may have some 
company this year. Seattle minor 
league second basemen Brett 
Boone is trying to join dad Bob 
(who is trying out with the team 
as a catcher) in the bigs this year. 
So at least the Mariners will lead 
the league in sentiment.
The Texas Rangers have the 
offense to win the AL West. Un­
fortunately, these same everyday 
players play poor enough defense
p.wD. DxTp2 world wise lume85
______For further information about Peace Corps, write Box 896, Washington DC 20526____________________
INSTRUCTIONS: The U.S. Peace Corps has volunteers serving in more than 70 nations around the world. By solving this puzzle, you will learn about one of these countries.
Solve the four numbered puzzle words and then unscramble the letters in the squares to produce 
. the name of the country darkened on the map.
Daniel Arap Moi is the President 
this former British colony
5 0 kpo BRiR peE VeGGoH Tpo w‘qdhTeTwdG dt TpwE qhdH.nT
2. g .GwT dt ‘oeE.ho‘oGT
3. Nehxo aebo Ge‘oH etToh DGxawEp l.ooG
’R MeqwTda dt TpwE GeTwdG
85,is2 = e0Carng 8iCCaM on gUliivag tgy5MB ¦B PibhlhyU
to prevent them from winning the 
West — in 1990 they committed 
133 errors (third most in the 
league). Coupled with their 
pitching staff, this spells fifth 
place.
The Kansas City Royals, ex­
pected by many to be one of the 
better teams in the league, only 
led the league in disappointment 
— finishing sixth, 27 1/2 games 
out of first. 1991 does not look 
much brighter — at publication 
time it was being reported that 
outfielder Bo Jackson’s athletic 
career may be over due to a foot­
ball injury.
The Minnesota Twins hoped to 
rebuild a weak pitching staff, and 
win with an offense that carried 
them to the 1987 World Series. 
However, barring a return to form 
from the veterans and vast im­
provement from young players, 
the Twins are in for a long and 
frustrating 1991.
ALEAST
The Blue Jays hope to shake 
the wrap as baseball’s most tal­
ented team never to make the 
World Series. Shedding attitude 
problems Tony Fernandez and 
George Bell, along with acquiring 
a few players to bolster the team, 
improves their chances to do that.
The Boston Red Sox face the 
ominous task of repeating a title 
in the AL East — something not 
done the entire decade of the 
1980s. The team hopes rookies 
Mo Vaugn and Tim Naehring, 
along with new pitchers Danny 
Darwin and Matt Young can help 
them overcome the jinx.
The Orioles have a problem 
many teams would like to have— 
too many talented players than
NLWESTNL EAST
1. Cincinnati1. Pittsburgh
2. Los Angeles2. New York
3. San Diego3. Chicago
4. Atlanta4. Montreal
5. San Francisco5. Philadelphia
6. Houston6. St. Louis
ALWESTAL EAST
1. Oakland1. Toronto
2. California2. Boston
3. Chicago3. Cleveland
4. Seattle4. Baltimore
5. Texas5. Detroit
6. Kansas City6. New York
7. Minnesota7. Milwaukee
they can play. Well, not at every 
position, but at first base, any­
way. The solution may be send­
ing last year’s firstbaseman, 
Randy Milligan, to the outfield, 
and letting new Oriole Glenn 
Davis be a designated hitter. The 
Orioles have talented pitching, 
but inexperience may hurt.
The Detroit Tigers started last 
season hoping not to finish last 
again. They not only did that, but 
featured 1990s version of Babe 
Ruth — firstbaseman Cecil 
Fielder. The offense will have 
plenty of pop (and strikeouts), 
with Fielder and off-season ac­
quisitions Rob Deer and Mickey 
Tettleton in the lineup. But a so- 
so pitching staff (minus long-time 
ace Jack Morris) will likely keep 
them from winning the division.
The Cleveland Indians have 
become major league baseball’s 
whipping boys. In 1990, the Indi­
ans narrowly missed finishini 
third, something they had no 
done in almost 20 years. 199; 
may not prove so fruitful, how 
ever. Outfielder Alex Cole, wh< 
appeared to have a chance to wii 
the AL stolen base crown, was 
injured in a pre-season game ant 
may miss a significant part of th( 
season.
The New York Yankee fans a 
least had one thing to celebrafo 
while watching the Yankeei 
struggle to a last place finish - 
the end of George Steinbrenneri 
tenure as team owner. A group o 
young, talented players may helj 
the Yankees soon return to glory
The Milwaukee Brewers fac 
a long 1991, after watching a Ion 
series of hyped rookies perfon 
less than expected. Losing pitch 
ing ace Teddy Higuera to anothei 
rotator cuff injury just made th 
situation worse.
D3rss0c0iXs
Housing
2OrXus0Xi S ^ 1iX5eeas z W 
1iX5eeas c85v0sOiXd hiU 1r,O rvX 
!0,mOivV YBYV UrsOi5BX50i5d w33 
8,030,0is 0vm38XiXd *M(4*ERMd 
’(R-G^&&4-©&M
2Oe5, ni5a S 2OrXus0Xi Pvv 
wyr5,aiv, 280,isd .3iCrv,3u 
c85v0sOiXV Ui33 ryye0v,iXV s,8X0eV 
EzW 1iX5eea s80,isV c833u ib80yyiX 
!0,mOivd Pvm38Xis c5ii mr13i ’KlxGV 
yOeviV yr5!0vCV 30vivsd xvi 13em! ,e 
Yr3v8, 2,5ii, sOeysd k5ea 2-E yi5 
XruV aev,O3u 1rs0sd fr03uV Uii!3uV z 
aev,O3u 5r,is ror03r13id --E4----d
ke5 Tiv, S 2b8055i3 K033 icc0m0iv­
m0isV E 1iX5eeaV W 1iX5eea 
8vc85v0sOiXV r3se Oe8si sOr5id Jei 
^WE4-MWWd 9iroi aissrCi 0c ve, 0vd
xcc0mi 2yrmi S 2b8055i3 K033d
hiU3u 5iaeXi3iX $WW^Bird4 N,030,0is 
0vm38XiXd -WW4©RRRd
Je1s
xoi5sirs xyye5,8v0,0is S nUe
uir5 yes0,0evs 0v Xioi3ey0vC 
me8v,50isd D0,0LivsO0yBXiC5ii 
5ib805iXd w33 iIyivsis yr0Xd
.Imi33iv, 1ivic0,s S 3erv Xici5aiv,B 
C5rX smOee3 rss0s,rvmid Dr33 gUiv 
w33ivV pirmi De5y Tiy *-M4©-W-d
gi, ue85 X5ira ¦e1s veUH ERRts ec 
rXX5iss ,i3d#s ec ¦e1s eyiv 0v 
pr5rX0sid Dr30cBk3rBhr,t3 pr5!sB 
D580siBTrc,0vC ce5 2y50vCB28aai5d 
Kroi r yr0X ormr,0evd Dr33 E4&RR4 
WW*4W*--d $(Ba0vd
krs, k8vX5r0s0vC p5eC5ra) $ERRR 
0v ¦8s, evi Uii!d .r5v 8y ,e $ ERRR 
ce5 ue85 mray8s e5Crv0Lr,0evd p38s r 
mOrvmi r, $^RRR ae5iH nO0s y5eC5ra 
Ue5!sH he 0vois,aiv, viiXiXd Dr33 
E4MRR4&(W4R^WMV .I,d^Rd
Y. h..f 2.9k4FxnPAwn.f 
2nNf.hn2 .r5v 8y ,e $ ERBO5d 
Fr5!i, m5iX0, mr5Xs ev mray8sd 
k3iI013i Oe85sd xv3u ER yes0,0evs 
ror03r13id Dr33 heU E4MRR4&^R4 
M-©WV .I,dWR ’lr51Gd
.XDPnPhg Jxl2 Ph w9w2Jw 
KPTPhg Fiv 4 Yeaivd 28aai5B 
”ir5 Te8vXd k0sO0vCV Drvvi50isV V 
9eCC0vCV F0v0vCV Devs,58m,0evV x03 
Deayrv0isV 2!033iXBNvs!033iXd 
n5rvsye5,r,0ev $*RR y38s Uii!3ud 
Dw99 hxYH
E4WR*4©(*4©RRRV .I,d lM-E
D580si 2O0y Je1s KPTPhg Fiv 4 
Yeaivd 28aai5B”ir5 Te8vXd 
pKxnxgTwpK.T2V nxNT gNPf.2V 
T.DT.wnPxh p.T2xhh.9d 
.Imi33iv, yru y38s kT.. ,5roi3d 
Dr5011irvV KrUr00V lrOrarsV 2e8,O 
prm0c0mV FiI0med Dw99 hxYH Dr33 
5ic8vXr13id E4WR*4©(*4©RRRV .I,d 
*RRhEd
DxNh2.9xT2 Ywhn.fd n50a 
XeUvSk0,vissV me4iXV h”2 mrayd ERR 
yes0,0evs) sye5,sV m5rc,sV arvu e,Oi5sd 
Dray 2OrviV kiaXr3i h” EW©(-d 
’&E-GW&W4-R-^d
2NFF.T YxTJ xNn Y.2n w5i
ue8 3ee!0vC ce5 r mOrvmi ,e ,5roi3V Cr0v 
or38r13i Ue5! iIyi50ivmiV rvX ir5v 
$^V(RR ,O0s s8aai5~ Pvce5ar,0evr3 
0v,i5o0iUs U033 1i Oi3X 1u ,Oi 2e8,O­
Uis,i5v Deayrvu ,eXruV Fr5mO EM,O r, 
,Oi Ke30Xru Pvv rm5ess c5ea ,Oi 
Dr,OiX5r3 ec 9ir5v0vCV r, ^)RR pdFd rvX 
©)RR pdFd Deai mOim! 0, e8,H
www 2,8Xiv, pr0v,i5s S Je1s 
ror03r13i veU ce5 ,Oi s8aai5 rs Oe8si 
yr0v,i5s 0v ,Oi p0,,s185CO r5ird ke5 
0vce5ar,0ev e5 ryy30mr,0evV mr33 
ndwd2dpd r, E4MRR4(-(4R(R(d
D580si 2O0y Je1sSK050vC Fiv4 
Yeaivd 28aai5B”ir5 Te8vXd 
pKxnxgTwpK.T2d
nxNT gNPf.2V T.DT.wnPxh 
p.T2xhh.9d .Imi33iv, yru y38s 
kT.. ,5roi3d Dr5011irvBKrUr00V 
lrOrarsV 2e8,O prm0c0mV FiI0med
Dw99 hxYH Dr33 5ic8vXr13id 
E4WR*4©(*4©RRRV .I,d *RRhWd
2i5o0mis
w1e5,0evV Fe5v0vC rc,i5 ,5ir,aiv,d
k5ii y5iCvrvmu ,is,0vCV s8yye5,0oi 
r,aesyOi5id l05,O mev,5e3V Af ,is,0vCV 
aiv rvX Ueaivd Dr33 **E4MMEEd 
w33iCOivu Tiy5eX8m,0oid
2y50vC l5ir! S Jrar0mrH lrOrarsH 
p8i5,e T0meH k5ea ev3u $^W&V 0vm38X­
0vC r05 cr5i c5ea p0,,s185COV C5ir, Oe,i3V 
,rIis z C5r,80,0isV rvX ae5iH Dr33 ,Oi 
2y50vC l5ir! iIyi5,s r, ke85 2irsevs 
E4MRR4((E4(E(*d
KirX0vC ce5 .85eyi ,O0s s8aai5~ Ji, 
,Oi5i rvu,0ai ce5 $E*R U0,O w05O0,mO ’5G 
’5iye5,iX 0v NY Times rvd Let's Go!) 
w05O0,mO’5G *WE4©©RRd
***9eU 2,8Xiv,V krm83,u
kr5is***w”K prssis*** 
.85r03prssis*** n5roi3lee!s*** w33 ,e 
1i ce8vX r, ke58a n5roi3d A0s0, 8s r,
-*RM Y0v,O5ey 2,d ’ecc 2e8,O g5r0CG 
e5 mr33 8s r, *ME 4-R&&d
Dr5011irv S $ EM& ce5 2y50vC 
l5ir!H YOu c5iiLi Oi5i UOiv ce5 
ev3u $ EM& ue8 mrv 1i s,5i,mOiX e8, 
ev ,Oi srvXs ec ,Oi s8vvu Dr5011irv 
e5 FiI0mrv mers, ce5 r Uii!~ TB, r05d 
2NhKPnDK™ *WE4©©RRd
Yr!i4v4lr!iHH 2y50vC l5ir! &EHH 
Jrar0mrBDrvm8v c5ea $-^&dRRHH w 
Uii! ec c8v rvX s8v H nOi Oe,,is, 
Xis,0vr,0evs E4MRR4-W*4©©ERd
nOir,i5 Ki3y 4 f05im,e5sV fis0Cvi5sV 
D5iU 4 sivX 5is8ais ,e Jr,O3iiv 
YO0,ice5XV pdxdleI EMM*V p0,,s­
185COV pw E^W(R4EMM*
.X0,0vCV p5eec5irX0vC 2i5o0mid 
Yit33 c0I ,Oesi C5raar,0mr3V 
suv,rm,0mr3V siarv,0mr3 a0s,r!is 0v 
ue85 ,OisisV yryi5sV 18s0viss 
Xem8aiv,sV i,md 9i, 8s Ue55u r1e8, 
,Oi syi330vC rvX y8vm,8r,0evd 
Tirsevr13i 5r,is; crs, ,85vr5e8vX 
,0ai; ai,0m83e8s 5is83,sd Yi 
syim0r30Li 0v Oi3y0vC m30iv,s ce5 
UOea .vC30sO 0s r simevX 3rvC8rCid 
Tici5ivmisV Dr33 2uv,rm,0IV ^WE4E^M©
wXey,0ev
Yi r5i r Oryy03u ar550iX me8y3i 
sii!0vC ,e rXey,d p50or,i rXey,0ev 0s 
r meayrss0evr,i rvX yi5cim,3u 3iCr3 
Uru ,e sOeU ue85 3eoi ce5 ue85 mO03XV 
Yi U033 1i r a03! z mee!0is Fea 
rvX r 90,,3i 9irC8i frXd Yi y5ea0si 
r c833 rvX Oryyu 30ci ce5 r mO03Xd Yi 
r5i irsu ,e ,r3! ,e d ”e8 mrv aii, 8s 
0c ue8 Urv,Qd Dr33 De33im, -WE4M 
-©^-d
F0smi33rvie8s
2OrXus0Xi lee! .ImOrvCiSD5iX03 
ce5 b8r30,u yryi51rm!sd nOe8srvXs e 
Or3c4y50mi yryi51rm!s ev r33 s81¦im,sd 
^ME^ .33sUe5,O woiv8id pOevi (*(4 
--W*d
Ps 0, ,58iV Ceot, si0LiX oiO0m3is P5e0v 
$ERR~ Dr33 ce5 0aaiX0r,i 0vce5v0r4E 
[¡evd ^R-4*-&4^©-^V .I3d 24ER(RR
Please send Classißeds lo Um 
Tartan, Box 17, Carnegie 
Mellon University, Pittsbm gh 
PA 15213. Call 268-21U M 
more information.

---------------------------------------------------

dossmr
literatur e üf design
Vol. 12 No.5
CU

---------------------------------------------------

I know we’re 24 hours late, but here at Dossier headquarters, we’re still celebrating St. 
Patrick’s Day. In honor of the occasion, this entire issue is devoted to limericks. Sixteen 
pages chock full of limericks. We’ve got everything from the classics of the genre (“There 
once was a man from Nantucket...”) to some of the latest avant-garde stylings from the Soho 
scene (“There once was a post-modernist from Nantucket...”) So sit back and enjoy - it’ll be 
limer-iffic!
If you notice that extra bounce in my step, you know that the baseball season is just around 
the corner. And with spring training in full swing, Dossier is opening up its spring training 
camp in Kissimmee, Florida. It’s always a thrill to see the grizzled veterans and bright-eyed 
rookies fighting it out for spots on the roster. As always, we’ll be stressing the fundamentals: 
spelling, grammar, punctuation. On Thursday, we’ve got our first exhibition game against 
the Bennington Ballpointers. Our scouting reports say they’ve got a kid who’s a real ono­
matopoeia phenom, so we’ll have to watch out for him. Otherwise, our chances look pretty 
good.
You all know that I’ve never used this column as a soapbox. I would never abuse my power 
by using this space to espouse my own beliefs. But just this once, I have to make an excep­
tion: I have a personal message for television personality Sally Struthers. Sally, we’ve all seen 
your commercials to help the starving children in Africa. And we’ve also been bombarded by 
your commercials for those correspondence courses to learn valuable skills. Sally, your 
heart’s in the right place, but we just don’t care. So here’s a suggestion-teach the valuable 
skills to the starving children. You’ll kill two birds with one stone, and you can go back to 
waiting by the phone, praying for a call from Norman Lear about an “All in the Family” 
reunion special.
I’m glad that’s off my chest. Now let’s talk about those new Clearasil commercials, where the 
kids are sitting around in a pizza restaurant, talking about their friend who’s got a bad case of 
acne. This has got to be the most fiendish advertising scheme in ages. It boils down to,
“Your friends are talking about you behind your back.” We are very close to the end of 
civilization, friends.
Okay, enough of my rambling. Our featured topic of the month is, well, limericks, of course. 
Limericks, limericks, limericks. Nothing but limericks.
I hope you all have an enjoyable Spring Break. If you’re a little short on bail money, please 
don’t hesitate to give me a call. Otherwise, thanks for reading, and we’ll see you next month.
Jack Silbert
Attention senior creative writers! Next month is our giant senior issue. If 
you are a senior majoring or double-majoring in Creative Writing, we 
want your work. Please send us either one poem or an excerpt from a 
short story (about three pages). All submissions must be received by 
Monday, April 8. Send them to Dossier, c/o The Tartan, Room 50, Skibo.
Copyright © 1991 The Tartan

---------------------------------------------------

2e ,Oi5i P raV r33 iIm0,iX r1e8, ,Oi 3rs, Pss8i ec Dossier UOiv 
0, mrai e8,d Krvs YrvC rvX P Ui5i mOim!0vC P, e8, UOiv Oi ye0v,iX e8, r 
‘sar33Q i55e5 ev au yr5,d P iIm3r0aiXV Pv ,Oi 0aae5,r3 Ue5Xs ec Keai5 
20aysevV •fOeeeeeeH” P, siias P sm5iUiX 8y ,Ue ec ,Oi m5iX0,sd nOi 
ke8v,r0vyivd U50,,iv 1u Jd F0mOri3 nOearsV Urs Xis0CviX 1u Jiv J0330rv 
rvX D5us,r3 nsrud .X FmFrOevV U50,,iv 1u DO50s Jrsr1rmOV Urs Xis0CviX 
1u x3uay0r n8mm0 rvX Jiv 9io0vd 2e a8mO ce5 au yi5cim, 5ime5Xd Fu O8a13i 
rye3eC0is ,e r33 ,Oesi 0voe3oiXV Oeyi 0, X0Xvt, 580v rvueviQs Uii!d
hiI, e5Xi5 ec 18s0viss) rs r C5rX8r,0vC siv0e5V P Oroi ,e C0oi 
8y 1i0vC ,Oi Xis0Cv iX0,e5 ec Dossier. nO0s 0s 8vXi5 a8mO y5e,is, rvX Uru 
rCr0vs, au U033d P Urs ¦8s, 3ir5v0vC OeU ,e Xe 0, U0,Oe8, Oro0vC ,e s,ru 8y 
r33 v0CO, s,5iss0vC e8, rvX 3ee!0vC eoi5 yiey3its sOe83Xi5sd P Cevvr a0ss 
0,d hiI, 0ss8iV Jiv 9io0v U033 ,r!i eoi5 rs iX0,e5V U0,O r33 ,Oi 50CO,s rvX 
y50o03iCis ,Oi yes0,0ev mevci5sd Pt33 ¦8s, 1i 3ee!0vC eoi5 Oi5 sOe83Xi5d Pta 
s85i sOit33 Xe r !033i5 ¦e1 rs seev rs sOi 3ir5vs s,5iss arvrCiaiv,d wvX 
0c sOi mOrvCis ,Oi ars,OirX viI, uir5V P U033 meai 1rm! rvX ar0a Oi5d 
geeX 38m!V Jivd
P,ts 1iiv r 3e, ec c8v Ue5!0vC ev Dossier, rvX P Oeyi ioi5uevi 
iv¦euiX 5irX0vC 0, rs a8mO rs Ui X0X m5rv!0vC 0, e8,d li iImi33iv, ,e evi 
rve,Oi5V rvX yr5,u evV X8Xisdddd
DO50s 2O0i3Xs
Calvin and Hobbesby Bill Watterson
Dr3o0v rvX Ke11is 0s r Xr03u cir,85i 0v nOi p0,,s185CO pes,4 grLi,,id

---------------------------------------------------

TABLE
OFCONTENTS
hro0Cr,0ev 1u DO50s,0vi Fmfrv0i3s 
Designer Sean Barrow
2ii KeU ,Oiu frvmi~ 1u nrar5r 90i1i5, 
Paula Madden
firX .3iyOrv, 1u h0mOe3rs Yr5X0Ce 
Christopher Shields
Fu kr,Oi5V pr83 FmDr5,viu 1u Kir,Oi5 2,ioivs 
Elena Maccarone
Fr3i Ke,4leXu Dev,is, 1u .or 2rvXe5 
Eva Sandor
Literary Editor Jack Silbert
Design Editor Christopher Shields

---------------------------------------------------

Navigation
Uncle Bob sits in the shallow 
end of the swimming pool.
I jump into the darkness 
wet with fear
and swim through the shattered stillness 
towards the looming figure 
I spy from underwater.
His wet arm reaches out, 
gropes and grabs for his youth 
and my ass and
I am so silent, so still, so despondently quiet that 
I let him
take control In the diminishing waves 
of indiscretion.
Christine McDaniels

---------------------------------------------------

See HoWfTfiey Dante?
(m’§ *% H
by Tamara Liebert
I woke up lying on the floor, sandwiched 
between pillows. I knew I’d had the carnival 
dream from the way my fingers were pressed 
into my stomach, and by the thick ache in the 
pits of my inner thighs. There were no distinct 
images that lingered in front of my eyes as after 
other dreams. Those would come later, triggered 
by something as simple as a color or smell. 
Instead, I was left with the vague sensation of 
being weighted, or of sinking; that I was only an 
uneven extension of the carpet. I knew what I 
needed to do was get to the drug store. Fd pick 
up a few things and come back to fix myself up 
the way I always could. I would shut myself up 
in front of the mirror for an hour or two, and 
then I’d be fine. But I had to get out of the 
apartment and to the store, because I knew 
what was going to happen when Fd remember 
the dream. When it came back in all of its colors, 
I’d need to be heading for the bathroom with the 
materials ready in my hands.
As I walked, I took the usual care to 
keep my eyes focused on the cracks in the 
sidewalk. My legs moved awkwardly, and I 
thought to myself how strange they felt, like 
they weren’t my own; thick, as if stuffed.
I hadn’t had my carnival dream for a 
week. The Sunday before, I’d spent the morning 
in the drugstore, picking out pedicures, facial 
masks and foot baths. I’d used the afternoon and 
part of the night up just standing in front of my 
mirror. Over and over I'd worked on myself.
Over and over. I’d stared into the glass and saw 
slitty eyes imbedded in my face, and an total 
absence of cheek bones. I put on that dark green 
mask eight times, each time feeling the pull of 
mud, like a suction. After the eighth time, my 
face caved in, and I started in on my feet. I 
sensed they’d begun to swell in my socks. I 
finally fell asleep on the bathmat feeling raw, 
curled into myself like something small and 
new.
But that had been the worst of it. I 
thought it had ended the whole thing. I’d even
felt a little renewed the next morning. I had 
eaten a banana and a spoon of peanut butter for 
breakfast and went for a walk without even 
checking myself in the mirror. I’d gone to my 
class and sketched the model straight through 
the three hours with only one break, and I still 
felt good enough to walk the twenty blocks 
home. The week had passed in the same way, 
and for the first time in all of June, I’d gone to 
the park in my shorts to read. The sun had felt 
like small hands smoothing my skin. Then, that 
Friday, my parents had called.
The phone was an alarm and shot me up 
and out of my bed like a puppet.
“Hello?” I said.
“Hello, Hannah.” I winced, gripped the 
receiver tightly.
“Hello,” I said.
“Well,” my mother said. “Well. So, how 
are you? What did you eat today?”
“I’m fine,” I said. “I’m okay.” It had been 
almost a week since we’d spoken.
My father said “Listen here, Hannah, 
your mother and I are sending up some 
zwieback and maybe some rice cakes. We’re 
mailing them out today.”
“Okay,” I said. “I’ll be waiting for them.” 
I thought about how much strength it would 
take to smash the phone through the wall. I’d 
had to force myself to take even breaths. After 
we’d hung up, I went over to the bed and lay 
down on top of the covers. I fell asleep uneasily 
in choppy fits of falling. Then I’d had the dream.
I had become convinced that the last 
time was the last; that the frustration and the 
frenzy that came of it would bury itself 
somewhere in the back of my head. I thought I’d 
be able to concentrate on the summer course. 
But waking up this morning in that familiar 
fashion had made me sweat. The need to get to 
the store was greater than it had ever been. I 
really had thought it was going to be all right. 
But my parents had called.
Td almost had to escape from their 
house to get to the city at the beginning of the
summer. I knew I wasn’t going to be able to live 
with the dream in their house. The second week 
in May, at the end of school, they’d brought me 
home in their big black car. That night in the 
living room, I told them of my plans. I sat across 
from them in the living room on their satin 
couches.
“I've saved up some money,” I said.
“So?” my mother said.
“Good,” my father said.
“I’m taking it and going to summer 
sessions,” I said. I clenched my hands. “Fm not 
living here.”
“Oh God, Henry,” my mother said.
“Nothing doing,” my father said. But I’d 
saved my money during the school year in an old 
black shoe box under my bed. I’d already called 
and arranged for the dorm room. So the next 
morning before they woke I took my money and j 
a suitcase and went back to the city on a bus, 
feeling exhilarated.
The first week of classes had passed 
uneventfully, peacefully. My parents didn’t call. 
But then, they started. Every five days, every 
other day, then every day. I would stay away 
from my rooms as long as I could to avoid that 
telephone. I spent a lot of time in an Automat, 
drinking hot tea. I would think about how it was 
it high school. Every memory I had seemed to be 
of a weekend night. I would sit on the family 
couch and cry, while my parents took turns 
patting my back.
I remembered very clearly how they 
breathed into my ears, “Oh, honey, honey, 
honey, honey, listen, it will be all better when 
you lose the weight, it’s for the best, it really is> 
just lose the weight just lose the weight the 
weight just lose it lose it just lose it just
I stopped the memory and looked arou 
me. I was passing a middle-aged couple walklp£ 
hand in hand. They stared at me and wouldn t 
take their eyes away, so I leaned down and 
pretended to tie my shoe.
As they moved past me I heard the 
woman say just loud enough for me to hear,

---------------------------------------------------

my God, Elliott. Look at her quick. Are you 
looking? She’s a corpse, she’s...”
I put my hand up to my face in order to 
feel my lips, my nose, my cheeks. I could hardly 
make them out. My face felt swollen as if 
pumped with air. I stood up, ready to run the 
last few blocks to the store. But I smelled the 
salt and dough almost before I saw the pretzel 
man on the corner, staring at me. Then, it was 
in my head. The dream came back with such a 
terrible familiarity that I felt sick.
Red and white stripes. An opening in a 
tent as large as a football stadium. And then 
me, displayed as the single attraction on 
massive powder pink cushions. I was eating 
chocolates from a deep, round box. A single file 
line of people marched slowly past. They 
laughed and pointed at each section of my body.
1 didn’t want to be there, the center of it all, but 
I couldn’t move. It was as if I were pinned. Then, 
there were my mother and my father in the line, 
dressed in black, arms linked. They stared.
“You couldn’t ever get rid of it, could 
you!” my mother said, squinting and turning the 
sides of her mouth do wn.
My father’s nostrils flared and he bit the 
insides of his cheeks.
“Where’s the control, Hannah?” he said, 
pointing to my chocolates. “Control! Control! 
Control!”
I had stopped walking and was in the 
middle of the sidewalk, ressing my hands to my 
head. I looked up and around me, took them 
down and began to walk again, making sure to 
keep my eyes on the sidewalk in front of me. In 
and out slowly, I counted to three for each 
heath. When I reached the familiar cement at 
Rose Drug, I caught a glimpse of my ankles in 
foe sheet glass exterior. Goddamn it, I thought
0 Myself as I saw them, thinking how wide they 
°°ked; the way they spilled out from the shoes 
‘ke popovers. I leaned down, intending to 
squeeze them in between my hands till they 
resembled the ones I could remember, but I 
^nked as I bent over and they changed back. I 
lightened up and stood still for just a 
foment. Then I pushed open the door.
Coming toward me through the lobby 
as a thin woman in a bright blue coat. She 
Srniled widely and I felt very vague and distant. 
W the sudden numbing sensation that I was 
*0lng to need to turn sideways to get past her. I 
Sucked in my stomach, felt the harsh pull 
r°und my ribs and up near my throat. Inside I 
e^as though a balloon were expanding. The 
acks °f my thighs tingled, and I remembered 
sUky roughness of the cushions from the 
^ream. As I pushed through the lobby into the
store, the first thing I saw was a huge yellow 
display of Whitman’s Samplers. I moved quickly 
past it, holding my breath. I hoped they hadn’t 
moved the eyeglass display to a place where I 
might run into it; it had a mirror running down 
the sides.
Other than that, I felt a little better. All 
around me were hundreds of things to buy, to 
put in a bag and take home and into my 
bathroom. The order of it all struck me as very 
comforting. I held my wallet close to my hip, and 
went straight down aisle two. There were some 
Miracle Nails and an Ogilvie Soft Wave, and I 
grabbed them off the shelves. I only a five dollar
bill on me, so I headed for the counter. The 
woman who wore the big green sweater was 
punching in orders. I put the boxes in front of 
her and looked down at my hands. I noticed my 
ragged nails and the dried cuticles around them 
and felt distantly ill.
“Another Ogilvie, honey?” I looked up 
and saw that she had picked up the perm. She 
was looking at my hair. My hand moved up and 
into it and I felt the crisp staleness of the curls 
there. I shook my head, wishing she would just 
finish ringing it up. My head felt full of 
something thick and heavy. Ring it up I 
thought, ring it up ring it up ring it up ring it up
I heard the pings of the cash register 
and then stuck the ten I had in my pocket out 
to the woman. She hesitated, then took it, and
handed me my change. The rough tips of her 
fingers lingered in my palm. I could feel the 
colors and carnival images rolling around 
between my ears. I smelled strong chocolate, 
like someone was holding a piece under my 
nose. I wanted desperately to be back at my 
apartment, in my bathroom.
As I turned to go, she said,” Well, good 
luck with this one.”
I left the store and ran down the 
sidewalk. I needed to make the first right and 
then up eight blocks to get back to my place. I 
felt like running, but my legs were filled with 
lead shot. I moved slowly, trying to keep track of 
the streets. I wanted to be back in my rooms 
right away. The air was heavy on my skin and I 
felt suspended as the people moved by me. I 
wished I could fly back to the dormitory. Once 
I’d gotten inside and opened up a few jars and 
tubes; once I’d been at it just a few minutes, 
everything would start to change. I could run 
my hands up and down my arms and on my 
hips. I would not be revolted by the sense that 
the underneath lay something huge and dead.
I was just going to turn in the direction 
of my apartment, when I smelled the pretzels at 
the curb again. The colors and smells and other 
sensations were as clear as a quarter in my 
palm. The hold on me was like someone 
grabbing my arms. I shook. The buildings were 
swimming around in between my eyes and my 
legs felt heavy enough to sink into the ground. I 
had no sense of direction.
People were pushing by me, and one 
man with greasy black 1950’s hair squeezed 
past me as though we were jammed together in 
a corridor. I wanted to follow him, to beat my 
fists on his back. I felt helpless.
I remembered riding the bus to high 
school on a day I’d decided to try out for Our 
Town. The bus was almost full and the noise 
was beginning to make my ears ache, so I 
squished myself as far into the corner of my seat 
I could. I was muttering the lines I could 
remember from my audition monologue to 
myself when a boy sat down next to me, pushing 
his weight into the side of my thigh. I tried 
scooting further back into the side of the bus, 
but couldn’t. Then the boy stopped pushing and 
looked at me with his light eyes. He squinted 
them down.
“Boy, are you fat,” he said. He shifted a 
bit, and then he smiled with his big yellow wolf- 
teeth. “Lose some weight.” He pressed his bony 
knee against my leg and then turned around.
He had sat on the edge of the seat for the rest of 
the ride, talking with someone in the seat next

---------------------------------------------------

to him. And in my head were his eyes, blinking 
on and off as if they were lights. His words rang 
in my head the rest of the way to school Boy are 
you fat lose some weight fat you're fat lose the 
fat lose some weight boy are you fat
Td sat next to that boy and Td listened 
to him say those things and I’d said nothing. I 
knew there was something wrong with all of it. I 
knew what he was saying to me was his truth, 
but I hated him for it. I’d been comfortable in 
that seat, reciting my lines. Fd been okay until 
he pressed up against me. That was what I’d 
wanted to tell him.
The 1950’s man was out of sight already. 
I looked around and thought for a second that I 
would ask someone where my apartment was. I 
wasn’t even aware of what street I was on 
anymore. I could no longer recognize the 
sidewalk, and I had the brief thought that I’d 
gone clear out of the city. I kept walking. On 
one corner, I stopped and looked all around me.
I was passing a park that I recognized. I hadn’t 
been in it for at least three years, and the 
benches within seemed strange and forboding. 
The last time Fd come was three years before 
with my parents, right before my freshman year 
at college.
My senior year in high school, I 
occasionally starved myself to please my 
parents. Some weeks Fd have water and 
canteloupe and cottage cheese for breakfasts 
and dinners. At night, in my room, Fd take out 
and eat the candy bars from the shoes Fd 
stuffed them in. It didn’t matter that I might’ve 
dropped a pound or two from the starvation. I 
savored the silence my parents rewarded me 
with almost as much as the candy.
But they had caught on. No matter how 
small I cut up the wrappers, my mother could 
find them. I even tried scattering them in 
different garbage cans through the house. But 
she’d collect them all and put the pieces in an 
envelope. I knew I was no longer fooling them, 
and I lived in a perpetual anxious state.
In May, about a week before graduation, 
they decided that they’d had enough. They 
came to my door together and pushed it open.
Td been looking at myself in my mirror and Fd 
had to grab my robe off the floor quickly, 
wrapping it clumsily around mo. My father 
folded his arms in front of hii i. My mother held 
five or ten manila envelopes, and dropped them 
on the carpet. They had told me their plan, then. 
I didn’t argue. It was the way they looked at me 
that did it for me, the way they narrowed their 
eyes.
I listened to everything they said, and 
tried to nod in the right places. I began to eat
exactly what they put before me, and nothing 
else. Through the summer, I reported to them 
exactly what I did all day, down to the hour. 
They would smile occasionally, press their lips 
to my head for encouragement. I was shrinking 
inside.
I stayed in my room, sketching my feet 
and hands and drinking Tab after Tab. I tossed 
the cans into the huge red pile of metal in the 
corner of my room. I didn’t clear it away the 
whole summer. And then, after bowls of lettuce 
and beets and apples and beans, I discovered I 
was missing eighty-one pounds. They took me 
out to see Casablanca to celebrate. I had sat
down onto the metal.
“What do you say, Hannah?” my father
said.
I had nodded, feeling the thin coolness 
of the night. The pounds had gone, were 
dispersed into nothingness. I had been left 
standing in front of mirrors, pinching my waist 
and breasts and thighs, and staring into the 
glass.
I massaged the back of my neck with 
one hand as I made myself walk past the park 
gates. My head hurt in wide pulsing waves, 
and I went quickly, and in the direction I felt 
would most likely lead to my apartment. The 
plastic drugstore bag was making my hand 
sweat, but I didn’t dare put it down. I felt 
afraid; nervous that if I did, I might leave it 
somewhere and keep on going. I needed to get 
home.
I made myself imagine how I was going 
to look. I needed the change more than I ever 
had. I knew my hands would be different. The 
fingers were going to have a glowing, pearly 
sheen and the cuticles would be rounded and 
pushed back. They would be delicate hands. To 
go with them would be my hair, changed into a 
mass of shine that would fall around my face in 
flattering waves, hiding my flesh.
Hiding my flesh. A chill ran under my 
skin. Will it be enough? I stopped on the 
sidewalk for a moment, and then looked into my 
bag. Miracle Nails and an Ogilvie Home Perm.
I turned the boxes over and over, trying to find 
something else in that bag, but could not. I 
thought for a moment that I would run back to 
the store, but then remembered that I didn t 
know which way I was headed, never mind 
returning to the place Fd just been.
I was starting to feel as if there was not 
enough air around me. I put my hand on my 
chest and tried my usual method of breathing, 
but I kept getting ahead of myself in the 
counting. I began to panic. A woman brushed by 
me and I caught a glimpse of her long shiny 
hair. I wanted to follow her.
“Let me ask you about your hair,’ I d 
say, once Fd caught up to her. “Let me just ask 
you a few things.”
She was a few blocks ahead of me, and I 
began to walk in her direction. Just then, a tall 
teenager passed in front of me and I caught a 
glimpse of her perfect red nails. They reminded 
me of the picture on the Miracle Nails Box. I 
felt like running in her direction. Fd tap her 
her shoulder, and keep tapping until she turn 
around. .
“Just a minute,” Fd say. “Just let me
between them, feeling small and disheveled in 
my seat, and listened to my mother snort up 
her tears, and my father make comments about 
Ingrid Bergman under his breath. We had gone 
for a walk in the park afterwards, the three of 
us. They walked on either side of me.
We stopped at an empty fountain and 
watched the birds move around inside it. They 
were tiny, dainty grey and white things and 
danced around each other in short weaving 
flights on the dry water nozzles. It was a crazy 
dance, and my parents stood there in front of it 
for what seemed like a half an hour.
“Oh, Hannah,” my mother had said, 
grabbing my hand. “Look at them playing. See 
how they dance? Are you watching them? ”
Fd looked at her then, feeling empty. I 
wondered if the birds feet hurt as they came

---------------------------------------------------

you about something.”
I began to move in the girl’s direction. 
She seemed to be running, and my legs weren’t 
carrying me fast enough to keep up. I was afraid 
I was going to lose her in the crowds. All of my 
limbs felt foreign, and I wished I could shake 
them off, leave them on the sidewalk behind me.
It was then that the woman passed me. 
She smelled wonderful, like roses or violets or 
some other kind of flower, and I caught her 
profile just for a split second. She had the most 
exquisite colors of lipstick and eyeshadows on: 
brighter pinks and greens and silvery blues 
than I’d ever seen. I knew at once what to do. I 
had my answer.
I walked down the block, trying to find 
a department store. I shook my head at Bigby’s 
Shoes, at Wong’s Wig; at all of them. I turned 
corner after corner, finding nothing. Then it 
was there, magnificent and sturdy. It seemed 
to want to invite me inside with its long green 
awning. I ran in, letting the drugstore bag 
hang loose in my fingers.
On the other side of the glass, women 
of all ages were swarming around and I moved 
right into a group of old ladies. They had 
pastel hair and smelled like peaches. I could 
feel their ripe flesh against mine as we 
touched, and I pulled away from them quickly. 
As I walked away I heard one of them.
She said, “Did you see her cheekbones, 
Emma? Did you get a load of that one?”
My head was starting to hurt and my 
tongue felt dry. Though there were many 
people moving around me in the store, I felt 
isolated. Spotlighted. The sense of being on 
display rang in my mind from the dream. I 
needed to get some of what that made-up 
woman had. I knew I’d find it somewhere, but 
I was lost.
I grabbed the arm of the next person 
who walked in front of me. It was a man in a 
silky white shirt. He had a very thin face, but 
his arm was fleshy and undeveloped under my 
fingers.
“Can you tell me where the make-up 
would be?” I asked him. “Where’s all of the 
make-up?”
He looked at me, then down at his arm 
where I held him. Then he narrowed his eyes 
as they went up again.
“Hey,” he said.
“Look,” I said, and squeezed harder. 
“Just tell me where the make-up is.”
“Listen here,” he said. “Let go of my
arm.”
I felt a hot red spark in my chest and
pressed my fingers in deeper.
“I need your help,” I said. “I’m going to 
need to get to the lipsticks.” He stared at me 
even harder, and then I squeezed as hard as I 
could.
“You are going to have to tell me now”
He shook his arm free of my hand. He 
started to massage his arm and then waved his 
head in front of where we were standing.
“Christ,” he said. “It’s right over there.” 
I ran to the nearest counter.
It was heaven. There were endless rows 
and rows of blushes and bases and 
coverups, and then every color eyeshadow I
could ever think up. Everything was perfect and 
lined up in great ranges of shades and tones. 
There were cleansing and toning and firming 
liquids, and minimizing and maximizing creams 
and gels and ointments. I knew that the 
answers I’d not been able to find in my 
drugstore-bag were within the glass cases.
I moved over to the ten displays of lip- 
pencils and lipsticks, touching the sample color 
tabs and wondering which would make my lips 
fuller, wider, softer. I grabbed three from the 
case and then peered down into the glass case, 
staring at the face make-up. I considered 
smashing the glass and grabbing as many cases 
and compacts as I could handle. I grinned down 
into the samples, taking in all the colors. I was 
reminded of the bright colors of the tent, but I 
blinked and they moved back behind my eyes.
“Could I help you with something?” I 
looked up and there was a tiny woman encased 
in a skin tight, pale green smock. Her name tag 
read Ursula.
I smiled, wondered how white my teeth
were.
“Yes, please, Ursula.” I pronounced her 
name carefully. “I want that rose blush and 
some dusting powder and some translucent 
base. Waterproof. That’s so it won’t smudge 
when I cry.” I gave a short laugh. “I’d also like 
the blue-tint mascara and Toner 1, for oily 
skin.”
Ursula had bent down and was opening 
the cabinet to get at the makeup. I leaned over 
her narrow, bent figure.
‘Tell me, Ursula, what do you think 
about a rose blush? Would you say am I more 
of a bronze? I think I may be.” I imagined my 
skin, drawn tight over high cheekbones, 
healthy and catching the light as I walked in 
the sun. I could see that dark tint and I 
touched my cheeks.
Ursula had piled the pretty boxes on 
the counter and was looking at me.
“I’d suggest going for the rose,” she
said.
“Going for the rose?” I said. I felt the 
heat rising in my neck.
“Yes, I’d recommend it. And a heavier 
foundation to fill out your face.”
I glanced down at all of the beautiful 
colors. The ranges of shading. I thought how 
pretty they would make me look. How lovely 
my parents might say I was. I thought I might 
let them come to visit for a day.
“Listen,” I said. “Whatever you say. 
Why don’t you pile up all the things you’d 
recommend for me? Fm going to trust your 
judgement.”
“Are you sure?”
“Yes, just as you say. Pile on the bases. 
Pile on the eyeshadows. Tm paying by charge.”
“Well, okay,” she said. “Okay. I’d say 
you’re a Winter. We’ll pick you out some nice 
bright colors. Some darling blues and greens.”
She leaned down excitedly, scooping up 
the make-up in her arms and dumping boxes 
on the counter. Again, and again she removed 
boxes from the case. I looked at the growing 
pile and felt for the first time ever that I’d 
made a good decision. I felt like springing over 
the counter and huggingUrsula.
She scooped up the makeup and then 
turned her back to dump them by the cash 
register. She punched a button and the 
machine sprang to life. I began to feel

---------------------------------------------------

wonderful. I felt like the stuff was already in 
my hands and I was a block from my house. I 
had a replay in my mind, over and over, of her 
handing the boxes to me. I would nod my head 
in a steady rhythm, like a doll. It would be 
wonderful, this time. This time. I thought, This 
is going to be it.
Ursula turned and asked me, “You said 
charge?”
I opened my wallet and I found my Visa 
card poking out from its slot. In my freshman 
year, my parents had cautiously given it to me 
in their name. They had warned, “Only for 
emergencies.” I pulled it out and slapped it on 
the counter.
“That’s right. Charge,” I said. I resisted 
an urge to touch my teeth.
Ursula looked down at the card, and 
picked it up. She paused. She held the Visa up 
between her thumb and index finger. The 
amazing firmness in her face seemed to 
loosen a bit.
“We only take the store card,” she said. 
She let the Visa drop to the glass. It made a 
hollow, artificial sound, and I felt it in the very 
insides of my ears. A feeling of disintegration 
began inside there and I suddenly saw an image 
of myself on those pink cushions, still eating the 
chocolates. Had I been eating chocolates on that 
school bus?
“Listen,” I said. “This is a real Visa card. 
You can punch in the code, can’t 
you?”
“Only a store card, miss.”
“Fve only got this card,” I said. “I can 
only pay with this Visa.”
“Sorry,” she said.
“My parents gave me this, see? They 
didn’t know I needed a store card. I’m sorry. I 
only have the Visa.”
“Well,” she said. “We can’t accept a
Visa.”
It was pounding in my ears.
“This is an emergency.” I said. I 
smashed my hands on the counter. “You have 
got to take this card.”
“Jesus,” she muttered, backing away. 
Her eyes were shifting around. They moved 
quickly over in my direction and then away.
My breath was coming in short and sharp. I 
was just going to move over to the other side of 
the counter when I felt a hand on my shoulder.
“Ma’am?”
The man’s fingers were like hard nails 
but I shook him off, and moved into a wall of 
people. I knew I wasn’t going to get through, so 
I ran the long way around them. I passed them 
and kept going until I found an exit.
Outside, there were even more people 
than I remembered. I felt pushed into them 
and I stood still as they moved around me. My 
head spun in all directions. A sense of vastness 
was growing inside me as I watched.
A short woman with bad skin, dressed 
all in black was coming towards me. Her 
cheeks were pock marked and her mouth was a 
deep gash in her face. I thought in my mind 
that she was heading for the department store. 
I felt this idea swell up inside of me, and I ran 
over to her. She stopped, stared at my face.
“Where are you going?” I asked her. I
shook her shoulders. They felt bony under my 
fingers. They wouldn’t move so I shook them 
even harder.
“Don’t go inside!” I said.
“Get off,” she said. She reached up to 
pull my arms off of her. I felt people moving all 
about me and I let go.
I swung around and saw an older 
woman carrying a large shopping bag from 
another department store and a Fendi purse. I 
ran to her, stood in front of her so she couldn’t 
move and grabbed her arm. It felt sinewy, like 
I could press my fingers in and through so 
they’d touch in the middle.
“Oh my God,” she said. She swung her 
head around. “Somebody...” Her voice was low 
and sharp. I reached down and tried to pull the 
shopping bag from her, but her fingers were 
curled tightly around the handles. I pulled 
again, and it flew from our hands to the 
sidewalk, spilling giftwrapped boxes of reds 
and oranges and blues onto the cement. I ran 
to them and began kicking them away from me.
“Get away!” I said, and kicked one so it 
skidded a few feet. Then another. “Get out!” I 
kept at it till they were all in the street or up 
smashed against the outside of the store. I 
started to run at anything that moved. I 
smashed my head into arms and shoulders and 
stomachs. Some gave way, but some pushed me 
off as soon as I touched them. There were hands 
in my eyes and hair and I was running blindly 
at everything that caught my eye.
Then, there was nothing to run into. I 
looked up and around me and noticed the people 
standing around me, isolating me as a single 
figure in their ring. I felt their shopping bags 
and gift boxes and handbags. I sensed their hair 
and cheeks and arms and shoulders all around 
me. In my peripheral vision, they were standing 
still, watching. I squinted my eyes and they 
became a blurry set. My eyes felt dry, and I 
wasn’t surprised to see them stretching all 
directions, fixed in their long colorful rows.

---------------------------------------------------

fwnpdaeE WehHwxd
AoeH DaoqpeGT
The music from my stereo lies 
in my room like a dead pachyderm.
I feel as if an elephant took
the trouble to plod the Atlantic,
cross two states, lumber through the downtown
traffic, ask a cop for directions,
and struggle up the four flights of stairs 
to collapse and die on my cheap carpet, 
and the carcass is blocking the phone.
The coffee in my machine has been 
brewing and burning for a good four 
hours, gurgling in the silence
of the telephone’s lack of a ring.
It’s strong enough to kill an elephant, 
and normally coffee of just that
magnitude will cheer me up from 
anything. Tonight it falls just short.
Outside my window are two drunken
idiots arguing over some 
woman like a couple of sick 
elephants fighting and trumpeting
over a choice plot in the Graveyard.
I don’t exactly remember 
why I expected her to call.

---------------------------------------------------

My Father, Paul McCartney
Heather Stevens
P Urs X5ira0vC ec au 3eoi5 UOiv au ae,Oi5 mr33iX ai ce5 15ir!crs,d nO0s ,0ai au 0arC0vr5u 3eoi5 3ee!iX 30!i Dr5u g5rv,4 r ue8vC 
Dr5u g5rv,V 30!i Pv Arsenic and Old Lace- se P Urs y5i,,u 8ysi, ,Or, P OrX 1iiv Pv,i558y,iXd P Ue!i 8y 0v l8ccr3e 0vs,irX ec 
Ke33uUeeXd fi,i5a0viX ,e Ci, ,e ,Oi ‘CeeX yr5,“ ec ,Oi X5iraV 0did ,Oi yr5, UOi5i au X5ira 3eoi5 rvX P r5i 3em!iX 0v irmO 
e,Oi5ts r5as rvX 1rs0mr33u Ce0vC r, 0, 30!i 5r110,sV P 5e33iX eoi5 rvX y8, au y033eU eoi5 au OirXd P me83X s,033 Oir5 au ae,Oi5 
s0COd Fu ae,Oi5 Ors r ,5rXiar5! s0CO ,Or, y5e1r13u 5ioi51i5r,is rs cr5 rs n01i,d
NvU0330vC ,e ivX85i au ae,Oi5 iay3eu0vC Oi5 viI, s,iy 0v Ci,,0vC ai e8, ec 1iXV UO0mO mevs0s,s ec Oi5 sO50i!0vC au vrai se 3e8X
rvX se O0CO ,Oi vi0CO1e5s y5e1r13u Ce ,iaye5r503u XircV P Or83iX ausi3c e8, ec 1iX rvX C58v,iX r s0Cvr3 ,e au ae,Oi5 ,Or, P 
OrX r50sivd nOiv P r,,iay,iX ,e c0I 8y au Or05V UOr, Urs 3ic, ec 0,dQ
xoi5 ,Oi s8aai5 P OrX ,50iX ,e C5eU X5irX3em!sd P OrX 1iiv 30s,iv0vC ,e r 3e, ec le1 Fr53iuV se P, ¦8s, siiaiX 30!i ,Oi ,O0vC ,e Xed xc 
me85siV Oro0vC ve 0Xir OeU ,e Ce r1e8, m5ir,0vC X5irX3e0!sV rc,i5 r1e8, r aev,O ec ve, UrsO0vC e5 158sO0vC au Or05 P 
ivXiX 8y U0,O r ar,,iX vis, ev au OirX ,Or, 3ee!iX ae5i 30!i lrC 9rXu ,Orv TiCCri |8iivd P !0vX ec 30!iX 0,V 18, au 
ae,Oi5V ,Oi ce5ai5 woev 3rXuV m50iXV se P m8, 0, r33 eccd Dee3V P ,Oe8CO,V 30!i 20virX xQDevve5d Fr m50iX ioiv Or5Xi5d
ws P s,eeX 1ice5i ,Oi a055e5V mea10vC au ,0vu Or05sV Fr Oe33i5iX rCr0vd
•YOr,~“ P ui33iXd
‘w5i ue8 mea0vC XeUvV e5 ve,~”
P s0COiXd .oiv,8r33u P OeyiX ,e arC0mr33u PvOi50, au ae,Oi5Qs yr,iv,iX s0COV 18, se cr5 au ev3u mOr33ivCi ,e Oi5 s0COs Urs r mr5ic833u 
iIim8,iX sO58Cd P 30CO,3u ,e8mOiX ,Oi crmi ec ,Oi arv 0v ,0i yOe,eC5ryO ,Or, Urs UiXCiX 0v,e ,Oi a055e5 r1eoi au X5issi5d 
Fu cr,Oi5V UOe OrX X0iX ec yvi8aev0r UOiv P Urs ce85d P Or5X3u 5iaia1i5iX O0a 0v 30ci iImiy, rs r yr3i arv U0,O r b80i, 
oe0miV UOe !0vX ec 3ee!iX 30!i pr83 FmDr5,viu 0v ,Oi ev3u y0m,85i P OrX ec O0aV 18, 0v Xir,O Oi OrX i,mOiX O0asi3c Pv,e au 
aiae5u rs r !0vX ec C8r5X0rv rvCi3d Y0,O r 3rs, yr, ,e au Or05 P sb8iiLiX au cii, 0v,e au 5rCCiX Xem!s0Xi5s c5ea i0CO,O 
C5rXiV UO0mO P OrX 5imiv,3u sy5ru4yr0v,iX r 3850X c38e5ismiv, e5rvCiV rvX ,58XCiX XeUvs,r05sd
Fu ae,Oi5 Urs 0v r CeeX aeeX4 sOi OrX arXi Oi5 croe50,i 15ir!crs,V O8ioes 5rvmOi5esd 2Oi ,50iX ve, ,e C50armi r, au sOeisd
“”e8 me83X Oroi r, 3irs, mOrvCiX e8, ec ue85 yr¦rarsV“ sOi sr0XV yrss0vC ai r ¦r5 ec C38iu sr3srd P sO58CCiX rvX y8sOiX au iCCs 
r5e8vX U0,O au ce5!d
“9ee!s 30!i X0miX 0v,is,0visV“ P a8a13iXV 5ici550vC ,e ,Oi sr3srd
•p3irsiV g5rmiV P,Qs ,ee ir53uV“ au ae,Oi5 svryyiXV 30CO,0vC rve,Oi5 m0Cr5i,,id wyyr5iv,3u seai,O0vC Urs 8y 1imr8si sOi Urs 
Oe3X0vC Oi5 m0Cr5i,,i c8vvu rvX Oi5 iuis Ui5i r33 sb80v,ud
“2eV OeUQs 0, OrvC0vQV Fr~“ Y0,O evi iui ev au ae,Oi5V UOe Urs s,r50vC 0v,iv,3u r, ,Oi 13rv! nA sm5iivV P Urs ,5u0vC ,e s855iy,0 4 
,0e8s3u s30mi au ,e5,033r 0v,e s,50ys se ,Or, 0, Ue83X 3ee! 30!i P OrX ir,iv seai ec 0,d Fu ae,Oi5 Urs ve, r Ce85ai, 1u rvu 
s,5i,mO ec ,Oi 0arC0vr,0evV rvX ve, ioiv r oi5u CeeX mee!d
•P, 0svQ,V“ sOi sr0XV ye0v,0vC Oi5 m0Cr5i,,i r, aiV •rvX v0mi ,r3!d w5i Ui Ce0vC ,e Oroi r v0mi 15ir!crs, ,eCi,Oi5V e5 r5i ue8 Ce0vC ,e 
580v 0, 1u 1i0vC 8vy3irsrv,~“
“P siia ,e 1i ,Oi ev3u evi Oro0vC rvu !0vX ec 15ir!crs,; P 30iXV Cis,850vC ,eUr5X au ae,Oi5Qs 8v,e8mOiX y3r,id 2Oi 3ee!iX r, 0, rvX 
s0COiX rCr0vd
•w33 50CO,V g5rmiV“ sOi 1iCrvV 18, ,Oiv sOi s,eyyiX rvX ryyir5iX ,e 1i ivC5essiX 0v Oi5 C5iiv mO030isd •g5rmiV“ sOi mev,0v8iXV •P 
Oroi ,e ,r3! U0,O ue8 r1e8, seai,O0vCd“
P C58v,iX rvX sy5irX seai ryy3i 18,,i5 ev r ,50rvC3i ec ,ers,d P c0C85iX P !viU UOr, sOi Urs Ce0vC ,e srud P Urs 50CO,d
“g5rmiV ue8 r5i v0vi,iiv uir5s e3XV rvX s0vmi ue8 Oroi i3im,iX ve, ,e Ce ,e me33iCiV XevQ, ue8 ,O0v! ue8 e8CO, ,e Xe seai,O0vC U0,O 
ue85si3cV e,Oi5 ,Orv 30i r5e8vX ,Oi Oe8si r33 Xru UO03i P Ce e8, rvX Ue5! se ,Or, Ui mrv ir,~“
•l8, P XevQ, 30i r5e8vX ,Oi Oe8si r33 XruV“ P y5e,is,iXd P X0XvQ,V i0,Oi5d P X0X r33 ,Oi Oe8siUe5! UO03i Fr Urs Ue5!0vC r, Fr50eQs f5u 
D3irvi5s & Ar3i, Pv ,eUvd P me83X 8s8r33u 1i 5i30iX ev ,e Oroi X0vvi5 ev ,Oi ,r13i ce5 Fr UOiv sOi mrai OeaiV ioiv Pc 0, 
Urs evi ec au 3iss yey83r5 5im0yis 30!i ,85v0y 3erc e5 mO0m!4yir yr,,0isd 9ir5v0vC ,Or, pr83 FmDr5,viu Urs ec ,Oi Oi510oe5i 
yi5s8rs0ev OrX mr8siX ai ,e 1imeai r oiCi,r50rvd Fr s,033 sUe5i 1u Oi5 !0i31rsrd
•heV ve, iIrm,3uV• Fr sr0XV mOees0vC Oi5 Ue5Xs mr5ic833uV •18, P XevQ, ,O0v! 0, Ue83X 1i rs!0vC ,ee a8mO ce5 ai ,e rs! ue8 ,e 3ee! ce5 r 
¦e1d“ P vevmOr3rv,3u s85oiuiX au c0vCi5vr03sd Fu m8,0m3is Ui5i 5rCCiXd
•9e,s ec ae,Oi5sV“ Fr mev,0v8iX ea0ve8s3uV “!0m! ,Oi05 !0Xs 50CO, e8, ec ,Oi Oe8si ,Oi a0v8,i ,Oiu C5rX8r,i c5ea O0CO smOee3d“
•w33 50CO,V FrV• P sr0XV ¦8s, ,e mOrvCi ,Oi s81¦im,V PQ33 Ci, r ¦e1d“
•Yi33V CeeXV“ sOi sr0XV iIOr30vC sae!i ,O5e8CO Oi5 ves,503sd •nOiv ue8 mrv s,r5, 3ee!0vC ,O0s rc,i5veevd“ 2Oi y833iX ,Oi m3rss0c0iX 
sim,0ev e8, ec ,Oi viUsyryi5 rvX s30X 0, rm5ess ,Oi ui33eU o0vu3 ,r13im3e,O ,eUr5X aid 2Oi y8sOiX ,ee Or5X rvX !vem!iX 
eoi5 ,Oi ¦r5 ec sr3sr rvX 0, 3ir!iX r33 eoi5 ,Oi yryi5V e1sm850vC rvu ¦e1 eyye5,8v0,0is UO0mO a0CO, Oroi 3ru Pv Ur0, ce5 aid
w, EE)(RE OirXiX e8, ,Oi Xee5 U0,O au e30oi4X5r1 mr5X0Crv ev rvX r 15eUv yryi5 38vmO 1rC 0v au OrvXd P Urs 150vC0vC 38vmO ,e au 
c50ivX 2u103V UOe Ue5!iX 0v r o0v,rCi m3e,O0vC s,e5i 0v ,eUv mr33iX YOr, geis w5e8vXV Deais w5e8vXd P ,Oe8CO, P, se8vXiX 
30!i r X0sirsid
•xOV O0V g5rmiV• 2u103 iIm3r0aiX UOiv P Ur3!iX 0v ,Oi Xee5d nOi s,e5i sai33iX 30!i Kr33s me8CO X5eys rvX mr5yi, m3irvi5d P Oi3X ,Oi 
38vmO 1rC e8, ,e 2u103 s03iv,3ud
*xOV ue8 arXi ai 38vmOH ”e8 sUii,0iH“ 2u103 y8sOiX r 3evC s,5rvX ec ar5eev Or05 e8, ec Oi5 crmi rvX sa03iXd “YOr, X0X ue8 150vC 
ai~“ 2Oi eyiviX ,Oi 1rC rvX yii5iX 0vs0Xid
•”e85 croe50,i4 DOiiL feeX3is rvX ar5sOar33eUs ev YevXi5d“
“geXV ,Orv!sd nO0s 0s se mee3 ec ue8d KiuV UOr,Qs ,Oi ar,,i5~“ sOi rs!iXV ve,0m0vC au XeUvmrs, iIy5iss0evd 2u103 sOeoiX seai 
mO0ccev smr5ois ev ,Oi me8v,i5 rs0Xi rvX 3irviX eoi5 ,eUr5Xs aiV s,r50vC 0v,iv,3ud “”e85 aeats Ce, ue8 XeUv~“
•2e5, ecd P Oroi ,e Ci, r ¦e1d“
“geXV ,Or,Qs 5e8COd P ,Oe8CO, ue8 Ui5i ,Oi ev3u yi5sev 3ic, 0v ,Oi Ue53X UOe OrX r mee3 aead g8iss sOits U0,O ,Oi .s,r130sOaiv,

---------------------------------------------------

,eed 2e55u ,e Oir5 0,dQ
2u103 mrv 1i Or5X ,e ,r3! ,eV seai,0aisd
“NOV Ui33V P XevQ, Urv, ,e 3iroi ,Oi Oe8si 1imr8si P XevQ, ,O0v! au ae,Oi5 5ir30Lis ,Or, sOi viiXs aid Pc sOi !0m!s ai e8,V sOiQ33 1i 
se55udQ
“”irOV uirOdddQ 2u103 UrsvQ, 3ee!0vC r, aid 2Oi Urs s,r50vC r, r X8s, 18vvu OrvC0vC c5ea ,Oi 15e!iv n0ccrvu 3ray r1eoi ,Oi mrsO 
5iC0s,i5d 2Oi 30, r m0Cr5i,,id
“Kiud“ ws 0c s,58m! 1u r s0Cv c5ea geXV 2u103 ye0v,iX r, aid ‘”e8 !veUV aru1i ue8 me83X Ue5! Oi5id PQ33 1i, .8v0mi Ue83X 3i, ue8d
2OiQs y5i,,u mee3d nOr, PsV 0c ue8 Oroi ,e Ue5! rvX r33dt
“P XevQ, !veUV“ P sr0X mr8,0e8s3ud P, Ue83X 1i c8v Ue5!0vC U0,O au 1is, c50ivXV 18, P UrsvQ, s85i P Urv,iX ,e se5, ,O5e8CO C5irsu 8siX
m3e,Ois r33 Xrud w3seV P UrsvQ, se s85i r1e8, 2u103 seai,0aisd x85 mevoi5sr,0evs vioi5 arXi sivsi 1imr8si Ui vioi5 5ir33u 
sr0X rvu,O0vCd l8, P ,e3X 2u103 PQX ,O0v! r1e8, 0, rvX X5rCCiX srX3u e8, ec ,Oi s,e5id ‘Dr33 aiV“ 2u103 mr33iX Oeyic833u rc,i5 aid
“Yi33V OeU X0X 0, Ce~ wvu CeeX y5esyim,s~“ Fu ae,Oi5 Pv,i55eCr,iX ai ¦8s, 30!i P !viU sOi Ue83Xd P 0Cve5iX Oi5 rvX ecci5iX Oi5
rve,Oi5 s30mi ec v8, 5ers,d 2Oi sOee! Oi5 OirX r, ai orC8i3uV 0vX0mr,0vC ,Oi 1r5i3u ,e8mOiX y0imi s,033 ev Oi5 y3r,iV rvX ,Oiv 
sa03iX 30!i sOi ,Oe8CO, 0, Urs 5ir33u CeeXd P s8syim,iX au ae,Oi5 ec 3iro0vC Ue5! ir53u rvX s,eyy0vC 1u ,Oi he5,O woiv8i 
X0vi5 ev Oi5 Uru OeaiV ce5 air, 3erc U0,O 15eUv C5rou rvX arsOiX ye,r,eisd Pv sy0,i ec vioi5 ir,0vC au air,3iss m5ir,0evsV 
sOi vioi5 siiaiX O8vC5ud
¦2eddQ sOi 1iCrv rCr0vV y8330vC r hiUye5, c5ea Oi5 viiX3iye0v, m0Cr5i,,i mrsid P sO58CCiXd Fu ae,Oi5 s0COiX rvX ,e8mOiX Oi5 l0m 
30CO,i5 ,e ,Oi ivX ec Oi5 m0Cr5i,,id
“g5rmiV X0X ue8 ioiv look ce5 r ¦e1 ,eXru~“ P sa03iX rs 150CO,3u rs P me83X ce5mi ausi3c ,e rvX sr0X meu3uV Q2u103 sr0X sOi a0CO, 1i r13i ,e 
Ci, ai r ¦e1 r, .8v0miQsd”
FrQs crmi 150CO,iviX rvX sOi veXXiXV 13eU0vC r s,5ira ec sae!i 8y ,eUr5Xs ,Oi f5d piyyi5 m3em! r1eoi ,Oi ,r13id ¦Yi33V veUV ,Oi5iQs 
seai,O0vCd ”e8QX y5e1r13u Ci, Ximiv, yru rvX CeeX Oe85sd .8v0mi J8uyi5 0s r 5ir3 v0mi UearvV PQoi !veUv Oi5 s0vmi O0CO 
smOee3d 9ee! UOr, sOi X0X ce5 2u100V C0o0vC Oi5 ,Or, ¦e1 50CO, e8, ec 5iOr1 rvX r33 ,Or,d PQa s85i sOiQX C0oi ue8 Ue5!d nOr, 0sV 0c 
sOi viiXs Oi3yd f0X ue8 3ee! rvuUOi5i i3si~ KeU r1e8, ,Oi 28yi5 f8yi5~ PQa y5i,,u s85i g3rXus aiv,0eviX seai,O0vC r, 
i8mO5i 3rs, Uii!V ,Or, ,Oiu viiX 1rCCi5s XeUv ,Oi5id nOr, a0CO, ve, 1i se 1rXd g5rmiV r5i ue8 30s,iv0vC ,e ai~“ 2Oi 
mem!iX Oi5 OirX r, ai b80LL0mr33ud
‘NO4O8OVt P sr0XV r5e8vX r ae8,Oc83 ec v8, 5ers,d
“p3irsiV g5rmiV XevQ, ,r3! U0,O ue85 ae8,O c833 ecdV that.' P veXXiX rvX iIm8siX ausi3cV m3ir50vC ,Oi ,r13i r5e8vX au ae,Oi5d 2Oi 
s0COiX rvX sU0,mOiX ev Wheel of Fortune.
“”e8 !veUV g5rmiV“ au ae,Oi5 sr0X 1iO0vX ai rs P 50vsiX rvX s,rm!iX e85 X0sOisV ,r3!0vC ,e ue8 0s ve, 8v30!i ,r3!0vC ,e r 150m! Ur33d 
2eai,0ais PQoi Ce, ,e UevXi5 UOr,Qs Ce0vC ev 0vs0Xi ue85 OirXd“ 2Oi y8sOiX Oi5 mOr05 1rm! rvX s,eeX 8yV urUv0vC r, pr, 
rvX Arvvrd “P ,O0v! PQoi 3i, ue8 Ci, rUru U0,O ,ee a8mOd nOi Or05V ,Oi me33iCiV rvX ve, ar!0vC ue8 Ue5!d ”e85 yee5 XirX 
cr,Oi5 Ue83XvQ, 30!i ,e ,O0v! ue8 OrX C5eUv 8y ,e 1i ve,O0vC rvX Ce veUOi5id“
nO0s Urs ,ee a8mOd ke5 seai 5irsev sOi me83X ,r3! r1e8, au cr,Oi5 rs 0c Oi Ui5i ¦8s, r COes,3u X0sm0y30vr50rv r0XV 18, ,e ai Oi Urs r 
srm5iX aiae5u rvX P UO053iX r5e8vX ,e crmi Oi5V r l5033e yrX Pv au OrvXd
‘KeU Xr5i ue8H“ P sm5iraiXd “”e8 ¦8s, 3iroi au cr,Oi5 e8, ec ,O0sd PQa s85i OiQX 1i 5ir3 0ay5issiX U0,O ue8V ,Oi X5u m3irv0vC b8iivH“ 
lice5i P !viU UOr, OryyiviX sOi OrX s3ryyiX aid Kr5Xd P ui3yiX rvX s38ayiX 0v,e r mOr05V au crmi ,e ,Oi Ur33V m5u0vC 
0v,e ,Oi ui33eU C0vCOra Ur33yryi5d P Oir5X au ae,Oi5 s0CO b8roi50vC3u rvX ,Oiv sOi y8, Oi5 OrvX ,iv,r,0oi3u ev au sOe83Xi5d 
P sO58CCiX Oi5 ecc rvX s,r5iX r, au sOeisd Frts cee,s,iys crXiX 8y ,Oi s,r05s rvX ,Oiv Oi5 Xee5 s3raaiXV 18, P me83X s,033 
Oir5 Oi5 se1sV 3e8X rvX smr5u 30!i r Xev!iu 15ru0vCd
w me8y3i ec Xrus 3r,i5V ev ,Oi Uru Oeai c5ea 150vC0vC 2u103 rve,Oi5 v8,50,0ev3iss 38vmO rvX roe0X0vC r33 ,r3! ec iay3euaiv,V P sr, XeUv 
ev r yr5! 1ivmO e8,s0Xi 93euXts k5rai 2Oey rvX y833iX evi ec au ae,Oi5Qs hiUye5,s rvX r 1ee! ec ar,mOis e8, ec ,Oi 
yem!i, ec au sUir,i5d P 30, ,Oi m0Cr5i,,i U0,O seai 5isi5or,0evV me8COiX ,U0miV rvX sr, ,Oi5i ev ,Oi 1ivmOV mr3a3u sae!0vCd Pc 
au ae,Oi5 OrX mr8CO, ai sOi Ue83XQoi !033iX aid YOiv P Urs c0v0sOiX P C5e8vX ,Oi s,81 1ivir,O au Oii3 rvX s,r5,iX Oeai 
,e ar!i 1ii, y0i ce5 X0vvi5d
w o0s0ev ec au ae,Oi5 r, ,Oi he5,O woiv8i X0vi5 s8XXiv3u yeyyiX 0v,e au OirXd P me83X sii Oi5 seyy0vC 8y 50mO 1iic C5rou U0,O r
18,,i5a03! 10sm80, rvX O8aa0vC Oryy03uV 30!i sOi X0X UOivioi5 sOi Urs iv¦eu0vC Oi5 ceeXd 2Oi vioi5 O8aaiX UOiv P arXi 
X0vvi5d
ne m3ir5 au OirX ec ,O0s X0s,8510vC 0arCiV P X8m!iX 0v,e ,Oi vir5is, Xee5UruV UO0mO OryyiviX ,e 1i3evC ,e ,Oi Deccii D8yV r C5irsu 18, 
XiyivXr13i meccii sOeyd P y3eyyiX XeUv Or5X ev r s,ee3 r, ,Oi me8v,i5 rvX y8, au OirX XeUv ev ,Oi mee3 ce5a0mrd J8s, rs 
,Oi mO5eai aiv8 Oe3Xi5 Urs 1iC0vv0vC ,e X0C 8vmeace5,r13u Pv,e au vr!iX OirXV Ar3V r Ur0,5iss UOe OrX Ue5!iX 3evCi5 0v 
,Oi Deccii D8y ,Orv P OrX 1iiv r30oiV ryy5ermOiX aid
¦Kev~“ P ,85viX au OirXV ve, 30c,0vC 0, ecc ec ,Oi me8v,i5V ,e 3ee! r, Oi5d 2Oi OrX r s,5rvCi Uru ec y8,,0vC ev Oi5 30ys,0m!4 0, iI,ivXiX ,Oi 
e8,30vi ec Oi5 30ysV ar!0vC Oi5 3ee! m3eUv30!i rvX seaiUOr, Xi5rvCiXd P UevXi5iX Pc sOi y8, 0, ev 30!i ,Or, rvX ,Oiv ,Oe8CO, ,e 
Oi5si3cV “auV ,Or, 3ee!s v0mid“ P ci3, se55u ce5 Oi5d 2Oi Urs ,Oi m3esis, ,O0vC P OrX ,e r 5i3r,0oiV 1is0Xis au ae,Oi5d P ,Oe8CO, 
aru1i 0, Ue83X 1i v0mi 0c au ae,Oi5 rvX P OrX Oi5 eoi5 ce5 X0vvi5 seai,0aiV sOi OrX ,e Ci, ,05iX ec ,Oi X0vi5 ceeXd P me83X 
ar!i rv ivmO03rXr mrssi5e3i rvX Ar3 me83X 150vC seai,O0vC 30!i Ji334e sr3rXV U0,O a0v0 ar5sOar33eUs rvX c580, mem!,r03d
Ar3 ,50iX rCr0v ,e Ci, au r,,iv,0evd QKevVQ sOi sr0X 0v r s,i5vi5 ,eviV “UOr, mrv P Ci, ce5 ue8 ,eXru~ w50XV“ sOi rXXiX 0v r ai3eX5rar,0m 
UO0syi5V “E Ue83X ryy5im0r,i 0, 0c ue8 Ue83X Ci, ue85 OirX ecc ec ,Oi me8v,i5d Pc s ve, oi5u 3rXu30!iV y38s P ¦8s, U0yiX ,O0s me8v,i5 
XeUv rvX E XevQ, y3rv ev Xe0vC 0, rCr0v 8v,03 r1se38,i3u vimissr5ud“
P 5r0siX au OirXd Ar3 Croi ai r 30ay sa03id •2eV g5rmiV UOr,Q33 P, 1i~ wvX OeUQs ue85 aea~“
•xv0ev 50vCsV“ P a8a13iXd “wvX r piys0d wvX sOiQs c0vid“
•x!ruV“ Ar3 a8,,i5iXV sb80v,0vC r, Oi5 e5Xi5 yrXd “YOr, Oroi ue8 1iiv Xe0vC U0,O ue85si3c~ KroivQ, siiv ue8 r5e8vX a8mOd xOV ue8 
!veUV PQoi 1iiv airv0vC ,e ,i33 ue8ddd“ 2Oi ae,0eviX ce5 ai ,e 3irv ,eUr5X Oi5 rvX UO0syi5iX 0v r mevc0Xiv,0r3 ,eviV nOr,

---------------------------------------------------

F03!0vs 1eu Ors 1iiv rs!0vC rc,i5 ue8 rCr0vd KiQs ev ormr,0ev c5ea fr5,ae8,Od P ,O0v! OiQX 30!i 0, 0c ue8 Ue83X C0oi O0a r mr33d“
Tru F03!0vsH nOi 10CCis, vi5X ev ,Oi y3rvi,H P OrX arXi ,Oi C50ioe8s a0s,r!i ec Ce0vC ,e ¦8v0e5 y5ea U0,O O0aV UOiv P s,033 OrX Or05d P 
Urv,iX ,e Ce ,e y5ea se 1rXV P X0XvQ, mr5i UOe P Uiv, U0,Od P yr0X ce5 au mr33e8svissd Tru ,ee! ai ,e r 50X0m83e8s3u iIyivs0oi 
5is,r85rv, 1ice5i ,Oi y5eaV UOi5i Oi X8ayiX rv iv,05i y3r,i ec a8ssi3s 0v au 3ry rc,i5 5iaeo0vC O0s C3rssis ,e !0ss aid Ki 
rye3eC0LiX ’3e8X ive8CO se ,Or, ,Oi UOe3i 5is,r85rv, ,85viX ,e 3ee! r, 8sG rvX ecci5iX ,e Oroi au X5iss X5u m3irviXV se P 
X0XvQ, Ci, arX e5 rvu,O0vCV 18, P sai33iX 30!i Cr530m sr8mi r33 v0CO,d wvX Tru OrX mro0r5 s,8m! 0v O0s ,ii,Od P s,eyyiX ir,0vC r33 
sirceeX rc,i5 ,Or, v0CO,d Fu ae,Oi5 Ce, au X5iss m3irviX ce5 c5iiV 18, E Croi 0, ,e geeXU033 rvuUrud
P s,5r0CO,iviX 8y ev au s,ee3 rvX yevXi5iX r33 ,Oi se85mis ec au a0si5u UO03i Ar3 mOii503u si5oiX rve,Oi5 m8s,eai5d k05s,V ,Oi5i Urs 
au ae,Oi5V UOe X0XvQ, siia ,e 8vXi5s,rvX ,Or, P me83XvQ, Ci, r ¦e1V 1imr8si ,Oiv UOe Ue83X ,r!i mr5i ec Oi5~ wvX ,Oiv ,Oi 
Oe55013i ,O0vCs sOi OrX Xr5iX ,e sru r1e8, au cr,Oi5V ,Or, Oi Ue83X 1i X0sryye0v,iX 0v aiddd P UevXi5iX Pc sOi ioiv 3eoiX O0a 
r, r33d 2Oi ev3u ioi5 ,r3!iX r1e8, O0a UOiv sOi Urs ,5u0vC ,e Ci, ,Oi 1is, ec aid 2Oi !viU OeU a8mO O0s aiae5u airv, ,e 
aiV ioiv 0c 0, Urs r 10, c8LLu r5e8vX ,Oi iXCis s0vmi P OrX 1iiv se ue8vC UOiv Oi X0iXd P U0sOiX Oi me83X seaiOeU meai 
1rm!d lice5i P me83X Ci, rOe3X ec ausi3cV ,ir5s ec si3c4y0,u Ui5i 58vv0vC aiss03u XeUv au crmid Ar3 y38v!iX XeUv r y3r,i ec 
ev0ev 50vCs 0v c5ev, ec ai rvX sr0XV “Fu geXV C053V UOr,ts ,Oi ar,,i5~“ P me83XvQ, Oe3X 1rm! ,Oi se1s rvu 3evCi5V se P ¦8ayiX 8y 
c5ea au s,ee3 rvX XrsOiX e8, ec ,Oi Xee5V ve, s,eyy0vC 8v,03 P Urs s,rvX0vC 15ir,O3iss ev au eUv c5ev, ye5mOd P c8a13iX ce5 
au !iuV UO0mO P !iy, ev r me5X r5e8vX au vim!V rvX 3i, ausi3c 0v U0,O r sO8XXi50vC s0COd Trm0vC 8y ,Oi ,Ue c30CO,s ec s,r05s ,e 
au r,,0m 5eeaV P X0XvQ, ioiv ve0mi au ae,Oi5 s,rvX0vC 0v ,Oi !0,mOiv Xee5UruV r C3rss ec 0miX ,ir 0v Oi5 OrvX rvX r 1iU03 S 
Xi5iX iIy5iss0ev ev Oi5 crmid xvmi P Urs 0v au 5eeaV P c3eyyiX ev,e au 1iX rvX 1850iX au OirX 0v au rsse5,aiv, ec y033eUs 
rvX s,8cciX rv0ar3sd
“g5rmiH4 Fu ae,Oi5 Urs mea0vC 8y ,Oi s,r05sd Qg5rmiV UOr, ev ir5,O 0s ,Oi ar,,i5~ f0X ue8 Oroi r 1rX ¦e1 0v,i5o0iU~Q
P 0Cve5iX Oi5V ioiv UOiv sOi !vem!iX ev au Xee5d P mevmiv,5r,iX ev au 3eoi5 rCr0vd nO0s ,0ai Oi Urs rv iIrm, X8y30mr,i ec p50vmiV 
rvX Ui Ui5i y5issiX ,eCi,Oi5 0v r 1rm! r33iu seaiUOi5iV 3irv0vC rCr0vs, O0s ae,e5mum3iddd
“g5rmiH“ Fr 1rvCiX ev ,Oi Xee5 rvX P Ce, 8y 5ise38,i3uV 1imr8si P !viU sOi OrX ve 0v,iv,0ev ec Ce0vC rUrud P 8vmOr0viX ,Oi Xee5 rvX 
3i, Oi5 0vV r s833iv iIy5iss0ev ev au crmid 2Oi 0Cve5iX 0, rvX sr, XeUv ev au 1iXd D5ess0vC Oi5 3iCs rvX 30CO,0vC r m0Cr5i,,iV 
sOi Croi ai r 3evC Or5X 3ee! rvX ,Oiv 3ee!iX r, ai b80LL0mr33ud
“g5rmiV OeviuV UOr,Qs ,Oi ar,,i5~“ P X58aaiX au c0vCi5s ev au Xis! rvX C3r5iX r, Oi5d
“xOV sUii,Oir5,V PQa se55u P O0, ue8V 0c ,Orc s UOr, 0, 0sd P ci3, rUc83d 2eai,0ais P ¦8s, Ci, se c58s,5r,iXddd“ 2Oi rsOiX 0v,e rv iay,u De!i 
mrv ,Or, Urs s,0m!0vC e8, c5ea 8vXi5 au 1iXV rvX s0COiXd “P ¦8s, XevQ, !veU UOr, ,e Xe r1e8, ue8V g5rmid P U0sO P me83X ar!i 
ue8 Urv, ,e Ci, r ¦e1V 18, P !veU P mrvQ,d“
“fevQ, ue8 Urv, ai Oi5i~“ P me83X cii3 au oe0mi b8roi50vCd I will not cry again, P ,Oe8CO, c0i5mi3ud I will not. “YOe U033 ,r!i mr5i ec ue8 0c 
Pta ve, Oi5i~“
Qg5rmiV E ryy5im0r,i 0, ,Or, ue8 mr5i se a8mO r1e8, aiV ue8 airv ae5i ,e ai ,Orv rvu,O0vC 0v ,Oi Ue53XV rvX ec me85si P Urv, ue8 Oi5id 
l8, 0, Ue83X 1i si3c0sO ec ai ,e !iiy ue8 Oi5i ce5ioi5V rvX U5evCd P mrvt, Oi3y 18, Ue55u ,Or, ue8t5i Ce0vC ,e a0ss e8, ev 30ci 0c 
ue8 syivX r33 ec 0, Oi5i U0,O rv rC0vC U0XeUd“ 2Oi s,811iX e8, ,Oi m0Cr5i,,i ev ,Oi 1e,,ea ec Oi5 sOei rvX ,O5iU ,Oi 18,, 0v 
,Oi De!i mrvd
P ,ee! r Xiiy 15ir,Od P UrsvQ, Ce0vC ,e m5uV P Urs 5i30ioiX ,e X0smeoi5d Fr 3ee!iX r, ai iIyim,rv,3ud “Ye83X ue8 Urv, ,e ,5u me33iCi 
rCr0v~“
P sOee! au OirX o0Ce5e8s3u ved xvi siais,i5 r, p85mOrsi OrX si5oiX ve y85yesi iImiy, ,e Xiy5iss aid P OrX syiv, r33 ec au ,0ai
U50,0vC 3i,,i5s ,e 2u103 rvX Ue55u0vC r1e8, au ae,Oi5d YOr, 0c sOi Urs Xr,0vC~ nOr, Urs evi ec au Ue5s, v0CO,ar5isV ,Or, au 
ae,Oi5 Ue83X 5iy3rmi au cr,Oi5 rvX iIyim, ai ,e ce5Ci, Oi OrX ioi5 iI0s,iXd Fu ae,Oi5 Urs 5arX UOiv P cr03iX e8,V isyi 4 
m0r33u mevs0Xi50vC r33 ec ,Oi c0vrvm0r3 r0X P Urs ce5ci0,0vCV 18, sOi Ce, eoi5 0, rvX OrXV P ,Oe8CO,V Ce,,iv 8siX ,e Oro0vC ai 
r5e8vXd KeU me83X sOi Ci, r3evC U0,Oe8, ai~
Fr siiaiX ,e 5irX au ,Oe8CO,sd “g5rmiV P mrv ,r!i yi5cim,3u CeeX mr5i ec ausi3cd PQa r 30,,3i O85, ,Or, ue8 XevQ, 1i30ioi ,Or, P mrvV 18, 
ue8 !veUV P Urs ev au eUv ce5 c0oi uir5s 1ice5i P ar550iX ue85 cr,Oi5 rvX P Ce, r3evC ¦8s, c0vid“
nOi5i X0XvQ, siia ,e 1i rvu,O0vC ,e sru ,e ,O0sV se P sr0XV “Yi33V ue8 mrvQ, ar!i ai Ce 1rm! ,e me33iCid Yi mrvQ, rcce5X 0,V rvuUrud“
“PQa ve, Ce0vC ,e ar!i ue8 Xe rvu,O0vCd P ¦8s, ,O0v! ue8 sOe83X Ci, e8, ec ,Oi Oe8si rvX 1i U0,O yiey3i ue85 eUv rCid“
“nOi5iQs 2u103d“
“”isV ,Oi5iQs 2u103V 18, 0, Ue83XvQ, O85, ue8 ,e Oroi ae5i ,Orv evi c50ivX 0v ,Oi Ue53XV rvX X0cci5iv, !0vXs ec yiey3id“
“FrV P XevQ, Urv, ,e Ce ,e me33iCiH fevQ, ue8 ,O0v! P y5eoiX ,Or, 1u c38v!0vC e8,~“ P me83X cii3 seai !0vX ec yrv0m 0v au oe0mid
•x!ruV e!rudV ,r!i 0, irsud nOiv UOr, r1e8, r ¦e1~ ne y8, 0, y3r0v3uV 0c ue8Q5i Ce0vC ,e 30oi Oi5iV ue8 sOe83X ir5v ue85 !iiyd“
“YOr,H“ YOr, r1e8, r33 ,Oi Ue5! P X0X~
“P !veU ue8 Oi3y e8, r 3e, r5e8vX Oi5iV OevV 18, Pc ue8t5i Ce0vC ,e 30oi Oi5iV ue8 sOe83X r, 3irs, 1i r13i ,e mev,5018,i ,e yru0vC ,Oi 1033sd P 
Or,i ,e y5isiv, ue8 U0,O rv 83,0ar,8a e5 rvu,O0vCV 18, P s,5evC3u 5imeaaivX ,Or, ue8 5irmO seai !0vX ec Xim0s0evd P ¦8s, Oroi 
Oe55e5 o0s0evs ec ue8 ,O5eU0vC ue85 30ci rUrudQ
“Yi33V UOr, r1e8, ue8H“ P sy38,,i5iXd “PtX Or5X3u mr33 Ue5!0vC r, Fr50eQs f5u D3irvi5s r career1. Fru1i frXXu Ue83X 1i ¦8s, rs X0sry 4 
ye0v,iX Pv ue8V X0X ue8 ioi5 ,O0v! ec ,Or,~ wvX 0c P 3iroiV PQ33 1i, ue8Q5i ¦8s, Ur0,0vC 8v,03 PQa e8, ec ,Oi Oe8si se ue8 mrv Ci, 
5iar550iX rvX ce5Ci, r33 r1e8, frXXud“
.oi5u,O0vC Urs b80i, ce5 r aeaiv,d P y5iyr5iX ,e m50vCi 0c au ae,Oi5 3iry, ce5Ur5X ,e O0, aiV 18, sOi X0XvQ, se P ,50iX ,e mr3a XeUv 1u 
yrm0vC au 15ir,O0vC 0v suvm U0,O ,Oi ,0m!0vC ec au ki30I ,Oi Dr, m3em!d Fu ae,Oi5 s0COiXV Oi5 crae8s s0COd 2Oi 30, rve,Oi5 
m0Cr5i,,id P me8COiX es,iv,r,0e8s3uV 18, au ae,Oi5 0Cve5iX aid
“g5rmid“ P mOiUiX r c0vCi5vr03 rvX 3ee!iX r, ,Oi X8s, 58cc3i ev au 1iXd P, Urs ,ir50vCd “g5rmiV Pt33 vioi5 ce5Ci, ue85 cr,Oi5V rvX E XevQ, 
Urv, ue8 ,e ce5Ci, O0a i0,Oi5d“
“ws 0c P me83XH“ P me83XvQ, 3ee! r, ,Oi y0m,85i ev au X5issi5d
“l8,V“ au ae,Oi5 mev,0v8iX 0v r 3eU oe0miV “ue85 cr,Oi5 0s XirXV rvX OiQs ve, mea0vC 1rm!ddd“
“P !veU ,Or,V“ E C58a13iXd
•frXXu Ue83X Oroi Urv,iX ce5 ue8 ,e ,r!i mr5i ec aiV rvX ue8 Oroid l8, P Oroi ,e ,r!i mr5i ec ue8V ,eeV rvX Pc P mrvQ, y5iyr5i ue8 ce5 
,Oi Q5ir3Q Ue53XV ,Oiv frXXu 5ir33u Ue83X 1i X0sryye0v,iX 0v aid“ 2Oi Ur0,iX ce5 ai ,e rvsUi5V 18, UOiv P X0XvQ,V sOi Ce, 8y

---------------------------------------------------

ecc ec ,Oi 1iX rvX OirXiX XeUvs,r05sd
“xOV“ sOi sr0XV ,85v0vC ,e crmi ai 0v au Xee5UruV •P XevQ, cii3 30!i mee!0vC ,ev0CO,V rvX P Xe81, ue8 Xe i0,Oi5d Yrv, ,e ¦e0v ai r, ,Oi 
he5,O wo~Q
n5r0,e5H P !viU 0,H P y833iX au y033eU eoi5 au OirX se P Ue83XvQ, Oir5 au ae,Oi5 s0COd YOiv P Urs s85i sOi Urs CeviV P 3ee!iX r, ,Oi 
y0m,85i ec au cr,Oi5d P 8siX ,e y5i,ivX ,Or, Oi Urs pr83 FmDr5,viuV ,Or, au ae,Oi5 OrX vioi5 ,e3X ai 1imr8si Oi X0XvQ, 
!veUd P OrX sy8v i3r1e5r,i crv,rs0is r1e8, ,Oi05 ivme8v,i5V mrs,0vC au ae,Oi5 rs ,Oi Urv,ev ue8vC lir,3i,,i rvX pr83 rs 
Oi5 c05s, rvX 3rs, 3eoi5d nOiu OrX ai,V P c0C85iXV 1rm!s,rCi UOiv au ae,Oi5 OrX siiv ,Oi lir,3is mevmi5, 0v 9es wvCi3is 
UOiv sOi Urs 0v O0CO smOee3d x!ruV se sOi OrX r3Urus 3ic, e8, ,Oi yr5, r1e8, Ce0vC 1rm!s,rCi rvX seaiOeU sii0vC ,e 0, ,Or, 
sOi rvX pr83 m5ir,iX aiV 18, P Urs s85i ,Oi aiae5u Urs s,033 ,ee 5rU ce5 Oi5 ,e rXa0,d 2eaiXruV P OeyiXV sOi Ue83X 
se3iav3u ,i33 ai ,Oi ,58,O rvX P Ue83X oi5u mr3a3u rvX me85rCie8s3u c0vX r Uru ,e ,i33 pr83 FmDr5,viu ,Or, EV g5rmi 9is3iu 
pO0yysV Urs O0s eUv c3isO rvX 13eeXd Ki5irc,i5 Ui Ue83X 1i ¦eue8s3u 5i8v0,iX4 pr83 Ue83X X8ay 90vXr ce5 au ae,Oi5V O0s 
,58i 3eoiV rvX Ui Ue83X r33 30oi Oryy03u ioi5 rc,i5 seaiUOi5i 0v 2me,3rvX U0,O 3e,s ec sOiiy a0330vC r5e8vX e85,Or,mOiX45eec 
me,,rCid
Yi33V e1o0e8s3u ,Or, vioi5 OryyiviXd P c0vr33u Croi 8y au crv,rsu UOiv P Urs ce85,iivd w, ,Or, ,0ai P s,eyyiX 1i30io0vC 0v geXd nOi 
ev3u yi5sev P 1i30ioiX 0v Urs au cr,Oi5d P UrsvQ, s85i P me83X ,58s, au ae,Oi5V 18, sOi Urs r33 P OrX se P O8vC ev ,e Oi5d
P 3ru ev au 1iXV s,5e!0vC au TrCCiXu wvvQs c5ruiX ur5v Or05 rvX 0arC0v0vC r XimrXiv, 5ivXiLoe8s U0,O fro0X lu5vid Ki Urs Uir50vC 
O0s 10C UO0,i s80, rvX P Urs s3ryy0vC r ,ra1e850vid Yi Ui5i 0v T0m!Qs wai50mrv DrciV rvX Ui OrX ¦8s, e5Xi5iX 138i X50v!s 
UOiv P Oir5X ,Oi Xee5 s3ra XeUvs,r05sd Fr Urs 1rm! c5ea ,Oi X0vi5d P, OrX 1iiv Oe85s s0vmi UiQX r5C8iXd
fim0X0vC r mevc5ev,r,0ev Ue83X 1i irs0i5 0v ,Oi 3evC 58v ,Orv y5e3evCiX s03ivmiV P OiroiX ausi3c ecc ec ,Oi 1iX ,ee crs, rvX vir53u 
cr0v,iXd P OrX 1iiv ev ,Or, 1iX ce5r 3evC ,0aid
P sr8v,i5iX vevmOr3rv,3u 0v,e ,Oi !0,mOivV 30!i P OrX ve PXir ,Or, au ae,Oi5 Ue83X 1i ,Oi5id Y0,Oe8, ioiv 3ee!0vC r, Oi5V P ye85iX ausi3c 
r C3rss ec 0miX ,ird
•2e~“ P sai33iX FrQs m0Cr5i,,id •KrX ,0ai ,e ,O0v! ,O0vCs eoi5~“
P sO58CCiXd “P C8issd KeU Urs ue85 dinner7 P X5r0viX au C3rss rvX ye85iX rve,Oi5d
•k0vid 90s,ivd PQoi 1iiv ,O0v!0vC ,O0vCs eoi5V rvX Ptoi Xim0XiX ve, ,e y8sO ue8 ,e Ci, r ¦e1d l8, ue8 !veUV P ,O0v! Ui 1e,O me83X 8si 
seai 5eead Pc ue8 mOrvCi ue85 a0vXV ¦8s, 3i, ai !veUd”
Fr eyiviX ,Oi sm5iiv Xee5 rvX ae,0eviX ce5 ai ,e Ce e8,s0Xid P ci33 0v,e evi ec e85 X03ry0Xr,iX Xim! mOr05s rvX au ae,Oi5 sr, 0v ,Oi 
e,Oi5d 2Oi s,r5iX r, e85 ,0vu ur5X ce5 r UO03iV 0v,iv, ev r O8Ci sy0Xi5 ,Or, Urs Uiro0vC 0,s Cvr53u Ui1 1i,Uiiv ,Ue m5eb8i, 
s,r!isd 2Oi y833iX e8, r m0Cr5i,,iV rvXV ,e au s85y50siV ecci5iX ai evid
¦DtaevVt sOi sr0XV UOiv P s,raai5iX au X0s1i30ic rvX y5e,is,r,0evd “fevQ, ,O0v! P mrvQ, sai33 0, ev ue8d“ P ,ee! eviV Ois0,rv,3uV rvX sOi 
30, 0, ce5 aid P, Urs Ui05XV sae!0vC 0v c5ev, ec au ae,Oi5d
“FrV ,i33 ai r1e8, frXXud ni33 ai r1e8, UOr, 0, Urs 30!i 1ice5i ue8 OrX aid“
Fu ae,Oi5 r3aes, s0COiX rvX sb80v,iX r, ,Oi L0vv0rs ,Or, 1e5Xi5iX ,Oi ye5mOd P s,r5iX Oi5 XeUv 8v,03 sOi sr0X seai,O0vCd
‘2eddd” Fr 1iCrvV c0XX30vC U0,O evi ec Oi5 Xr0su ir550vCsd •2eV UOr, Xe ue8 Urv, ai ,e ,i33 ue8~ PQa s85i 1u veU P a8s, Oroi ,e3X ue8 
ioi5u,O0vC P ioi5 !viU r1e8, ue85 cr,Oi5d”
P !viU r33 ec ,Oesi s,e50is4 OeU ,Oiu OrX ai, 0v O0CO smOee3V 0v Dr30ce5v0rV rvX ,Oi05 c05s, ’rvX ev3uG 30,,3i Oe8siV rvX ,Oi ui33eU mevoi5, 
013id P Urv,iX ,e !veU ,Oi 5is,4 UOu au ae,Oi5 OrX aeoiX ,e hiU ”e5!V OeU sOi OrX Xim0XiX ,e 5r0si ai r3evi s0vmi ,Oi5i 
Urs ve evi ,e Oi3y Oi5d
l8, sOi X0XvQ, Urv, ,e ,i33 aid “P aeoiX Oi5i 1imr8si w8v, Ki3iv Urs s,033 r30oi ,OivV ue8 !veU ,Or, P,Qs 1iiv se 3evC s0vmi ,Or, ,0aiV 
g5rmiV ,Or, seai,0ais P mrvQ, 1i30ioi ,Or, Urs ioi5 aid P,Qs r3aes, 30!i Ur,mO0vC r aeo0i veUV 30!i ,O0v!0vC ue8Qoi iIyi5, 4 
ivmiX seai,O0vC 1imr8si ue8Qoi siiv 0, ev nAd P !veU ue8 y5ici5 30o0vC 0v ,Oi yrs,V ve, aeo0vC ce5Ur5XV 18, au yrs, Urs se 
yr0vc83 ,Or, P OrX ,e r1rvXev 0,d“
P c30m!iX r s,5ru rsO ecc ec au s!05,d P mrs, r s0Xi3evC C3rvmi r, au ae,Oi5 rs sOi iIOr3iXV UevXi50vC 0c Ui 3ee!iX r30!i UOiv Ui 
sae!iXd
Fr mev,0v8iXV •2e 5ir33uV g5rmiV E Ue83X cii3 1i,,i5 0c ue8 Ue83X ¦8s, sOeU ai ,Or, ue8 mrv civX ce5 ue85si3cV se P Xevt, Oroi ,e Ue55uV
e!ru~“ P ci3, 30!i sOi Ursv, iIrm,3u s85i UOr, ,e sru ,e aid E UrsvQ, iIrm,3u s85i UOr, ,e ,O0v!V se P y5i,ivXiX ,e 1i r1se51iX 
0v 13eU0vC sae!i 50vCsV e5 ,5u0vC ,ed 2u103 Urs ,Oi 5ir3 iIyi5, r, 0,d Fu ae,Oi5 ve,0miX rvX s,r5,iX 3r8CO0vCd •”e8 3ee! s033udt E 
sa03iXV se5, ecd Fr s,r5,iX ,e ,i33 ai r s,e5u r1e8, OeU yee5 e3X F5sd J5rv0m! XeUv ,Oi s,5ii, OrX 15e8CO, Oi5 yeeX3i 0v ,e 1i 
X5u m3irviXV 18, P Ursv, yru0vC r,,iv,0evd P OrX 1iiv ce5C0oivV rvX P OrX 1e8CO, ausi3c seai ae5i ,0aid 2eevi5 e5 3r,i5 au 
ae,Oi5 Ue83X 1iC ai ve, ,e Ci, r ¦e1V e5 P Ue83X mOrvCi au a0vXd
P Urs 0arC0v0vC ausi3c Pv r yi5!u 30,,3i Ur0,5iss mes,8aiV Ue5!0vC viI, ,e Ar3 r, ,Oi Deccii D8yd P Ue83X ar!i aeviu se ,Or, Fr rvX E 
me83X Ce ,e Dr30ce5v0rV rvX P Ue83X c0vX ,Oi Oe8si au yr5iv,s OrX 30oiX Pv rvX 18u 0,V rvX au ae,Oi5 rvX P Ue83X 30oi ,Oi5i 
ce5ioi5V U0,O r ui33eU mevoi5,013i yr5!iX e8,s0Xid P Ue83X C5eU au Or05 1rm! rvX 3i, 0, OrvC 0v au crmi se ,Or, P Ue83X 3ee! 
aus,i50e8sV 30!i 9r85iv lrmr33d Ar3 me83X ,i33 Tru F03!0vs ,Or, P OrX 1imeai rv immiv,50m rv,O5eye3eC0s, rvX OrX aeoiX 
yi5arviv,3u ,e ,Oi 3iyi5 me3evu ev Fe3e!r0d xvi XruV P Ue83X 1i ,i330vC Ar3 r1e8, au y3rvs UOiv pr83 FmDr5,viu Ue83X 
Ur3! 0vddd

---------------------------------------------------

Ceao -dTvLdHI MdGToET
Mamie lipped her cup straight back 
till I could see her throat gulping like in cartoons.
The hot sun and hundreds 
of bleach blondes couldn’t faze us; 
we had enough rotgut cruising our systems 
to send a couple rockets to the moon.
The cheesy madras announcer told the prize amount 
and made a few comments on the subject of beef.
When all the other girls surged up to the stage, 
we took the opportunity
to slide back and buy a few more fifty-cent drinks.
At the bar it was hard to get service because 
the waitresses were tiptoe on stools 
the better to see Tony DiPaulo from Ft. Lauderdale 
cavorting in a g-string and yellow basketball shoes 
The bartender, skinny and quick, was turned 
away from the stage as he wiped out mugs.
He made our cheap Gibsons extra big 
and I poked Mamie to look how cute he was.
Mamie and I settled down in a couple 
of tough rattan chairs that left prints on our backs.
I noticed five onions levitating in my drink 
but four disappeared when I shook the glass.
Jeffrey Levinsky from Charlottesville 
had on practically nothing but a waxy tan 
and ten thousand pounds of decorative muscle; 
even his neck flexed when he turned his head.
The air was full of papery fingers 
and arms reaching out to poke or grab.
The hooting and squealing got so goddamn loud, twice 
Mamie had to ask what I’d just said.
Buck Signorino from Hattiesburg 
was shiny as if he’d been doused with Pledge 
and Thomas “Bulldog” Washington from Dallas 
leaned back, back, back to show off his meaty legs.
Mamie and I were about to get up 
and try the “East Island Stampers" they served 
when we heard a commotion. The bartender 
was fighting to get up his nerve and join 
the show. The waitresses shoved him onstage after 
Rick Fields from Butte. He stumbled between the rows 
of chicks and we got transfixed 
watching, he was so thin and graceful when he moved.
The announcer laughed through his buck teeth—the winner 
was some big steer from Omaha.
But Mamie and I stood on our chairs 
and clapped for our lean hero till our hands went raw.

---------------------------------------------------

Thomas Nichols/Tartan Senior Photographer 
Phi Kap’s Scott Zucker and Theta’s Maureen Mulhern got married in Annie Get Your 
Gun. Phi Kap and Theta earned first place in the mixed division of Greek Sing.
Thomas Nichols/Tartan Senior Photographer
Thomas Nichols/Tartan Senior Photographer 
Margaret Gates leads the Tri-Deits to victory in their rendition of Fame.
Rick Kiggins of Delta Upsilon performed songs from Oklahoma! to capture first place in the fraternity division of Greek Sing.
Greeks sing for local Cancer Institute
By MEGAN DIETZ
Tartan Assistaiit News Editor
Greek Sing 1991 has come and gone, and it can surely 
be called a success by anyone’s standards.
Everyone involved had a great time, and, 
although the final amount of money raised 
for the Pittsburgh Cancer Institute is not 
yet available, more money was raised this 
year than last.
Overall winners this year were as fol­
lows: in third place (and first in the mixed 
division), Phi Kappa Theta and Kappa Al­
pha Theta’s Annie Get Your Gun; in second 
place (and first in the fraternities category),
Delta Upsilon’s Oklahoma!', and in first 
.ce (and first in the sororities division)
Delta Delta Delta’s Fame.
Two special awards were also given out 
—the charity award, given to Kappa Sigma 
for raising the most money through advertisement sales, 
and the chairman’s choice award for the act best exem-
plifying the spirit of Greek Sing, given to Kappa Delta 
Rho’s Willie Wonka and the Chocolate Factory.
The show was organized by Chairperson Elizabeth 
Stuetz, a senior English major, with the help of four 
assistants, Tom Andersen, a sophomore 
MEMS major, Leslie Dobkin, a junior 
history major, Adam Schure, a junior in 
psychology, and Jennifer Wybraniec, a 
IP* S sophomore in IMG.
Andersen called Greek Sing 1991, “a 
great success. Liz [Stuetzl did a great job 
: organizing everything, and all of the fra­
ternities and sororities did a great job in 
helping us out. They all followed the 
rules we set up and were just very sup- 
| portive throughout the entire process.” 
The show came off with few problems 
but was lots of fun for everyone involved. 
<t][ was really pleased with the turnout 
and^the support from the campus com­
munity....” said Stuetz. “Our goal was to raise $10,000, 
and if we reach that goal, it will be first for Greek Sing.”
For more Greek 
Sing coverage, 
see pages L12 
and L13.
Matt Ireland of Sigma Alpha Epsilon played the role of a plantation owner in
i an uocKstaaer/larxan uontriDUting tanor
Kappa Delta Rho’s Oompah Loompahs In Willie Wonka and the Chocolate Factory helped win the chairman’s choice award.

---------------------------------------------------

NJkpo kehTeG O MehGoxwo CoaadG O 5X Cehnp 5((5
toIInsFaSAnbm caAagaDF ,oi laIAwi .nssw,AFoqA
By A. J. DURAZZI
Tartan Features Editor
Mark Mittelhauser, a senior 
economics major, and Chris 
Kasabach, a senior design major, 
have each been awarded a $13,000 
fellowship from the Thomas J. 
Watson Foundation.
, “It hasn’t even hit me,” says 
Mittelhauser. “To think that this 
time next year I will be in Warsaw 
$nd Budapest is unfathomable.” 
Mittelhauser plans to use the 
grant to study the social, political, 
psychological, and economic ef­
fects of unemployment in Eastern 
Europe.
. “I’m interested in seeing the 
responses to unemployment that 
the government and individuals 
come up with,” says Mittelhauser. 
“It's exciting because it’s probably 
one of the most important issues 
in the region right now.”
Even though these economic 
systems are different from that in 
the United States, Mittelhauser 
feels that their solutions to un­
employment and its subsequent 
problems will be applicable to
problems in the United States.
“The solutions I’m looking at 
are not only economic, there are 
emotional and psychological as­
pects as well,” he says. “I think 
some of the solutions will trans­
late. The U.S. is not looking at 
some of the social issues of un­
employment like suicide rates and 
crime rates.”
Mittelhauser’s personal inter­
ests have come together in his 
plans for study.
“The Watson lets you study 
something personal,” he says. “I 
grew up in a family and a com­
munity where unemployment is a 
factor.” In addition, Mittelhauser 
says he has always been concerned 
with social issues and social jus­
tice.
Mittelhauser’s academic career 
at CMU has lent itself to the type 
of diversity common among 
Watson fellows. “I started here as 
an engineer,” he says, “but I re­
alized that in my first two years 
as an engineer, most of my classes 
were in H&SS. That told me 
something about my interests. I 
will be looking at aspects outside
of, but related to, economics. CMU 
piqued my interests in the multi­
disciplinary perspective.”
Kasabach, in his proposal sub­
mitted to the Watson Foundation, 
summed his study plans in a 
“nutshell.” He wrote, “If you’ve 
ever seen The Gods Must Be 
Crazy, well, my proposal is sort of 
like that with a hey-maybe-I-can- 
leam-and-do-something-about-it 
flair.”
Kasabach states that he bases 
his plans on his design back­
ground. He will focus on the effect 
of industrial design on cultures 
with developing economies. An 
example that his proposal dis­
cusses is that many substandard 
goods in first world countries are 
shipped to third world countries 
so that the manufacturers do not 
lose money on the products.
“What are the cultural and 
economic implications of a 
hairdryer in a region without 
electricity?” he asks in the pro­
posal.
The Watson Fellowship pro­
gram is administered through 55 
small, private colleges and uni­
versities which nominate seniors 
for the award. This was only the 
second year that Carnegie Mellon 
was eligible to nominate students.
Along with Mittelhauser and 
Kasabach, the other nominees 
were senior creative writing and 
literary and cultural studies ma­
jor Javier Grillo-Marxuach, a 
Tartan senior staffwriter, and se- 
nior English major Stacey 
Stancill.
The nomination procedure 
consists of submitting a proposal, 
an autobiography, a photograph, 
a transcript, and two recommen­
dations to the University, which 
then selects its nominees. 
Carnegie Mellon chose four stu­
dents from over 50 applicants.
The Watson Foundation reads 
the proposals, conducts inter­
views, and finally selects the win­
ners of the fellowships. 
Mittelhauser and Kasabach were 
two of the approximately 75 win­
ners of more than 200 nominees.
The two are two of the three 
CMU students to receive a Watson 
fellowship. Robert Cucuzza, 
H&SS ’90, is currently studying
Tartan file photo 
Mark Mittelhauser, senior 
economics major, will receive a 
Watson fellowship for his 
proposal to study effects of 
unemployment in Eastern Europe, 
experimental theater in Eastern 
Europe as a Watson fellow.
Mittelhauser says that the fi­
nal plans for the money are still 
not worked out.
“Most of it will go toward 
transportation, room, board,” he 
says. “I will be taking an immer­
sion course in German when I get 
there. Some of it will be for trans­
lators in Hungary and Poland. I 
really don’t have the specifics yet 
and I really won’t have them until 
I get there. I hope the dollar g 
up.”
The only restrictions on Watson 
fellows are that they must not 
return to the U.S. for nine to 12 
months, according to Mittel­
hauser. Also, while studying they 
must send quarterly reports to 
the Foundation office in Rhode 
Island.
There are no requirements for 
the use of the studies. Kasabach 
states in his proposal that he af­
ter examining the impact of first 
world products, he wants to find 
his role in improving the status 
quo.
“I want to examine some of the 
impact and see where I can fit jn” 
he says.
Mittelhauser plans to use his 
study toward his graduate career.
“The Watson is incredibly flex­
ible. There are no strict require­
ments. That’s the advantage of 
the Watson — they pick people 
they believe in, give them $1(VRRR 
and say ‘Go live.’ ”
International service remains a career option for college seniors
By ROBERT WYNER
Tartan Staffwriter
In the new age of global communica­
tion, there are growing opportunities in 
the field of international services. At one 
point in time, careers in foreign affairs 
were limited to working in embassies, 
but now working at even the Depart­
ment of Commerce can offer overseas 
employment.
In the final lecture of the Toward 
Tomorrow’s World Coalition 1991 Dis­
cussion series, Perspectives on Interna­
tional Services, Ambassador James 
Goodby related recent changes in the 
world order which have affected the con­
duction of foreign affairs. Goodby has a
long list of honors for positions he has 
held in foreign services — such as politi­
cal counselor at the U.S. mission to NATO 
and deputy assistant secretary of the 
Bureau of Politico-Military Affairs — 
that enabled him to give students a first­
hand perspective of the international 
career scene.
“There’s a whole new world out there 
that has not been explored yet,” said 
Goodby.
One of the main focuses of Goodby’s 
lecture was the Soviet Union’s role in 
expanding international career horizons.
“The end of the Cold War presented a 
turning point in history and a period of 
interesting international affairs oppor­
tunities,” Goodby said.
Due to new American-Soviet relations 
there will be demands to solve problems 
that were not eminent in the Cold War 
era.
“The Cold War had set the pace for the 
last 40 years and caused a bipolar world,” 
said Goodby.
“With its decline we face much broader 
problems involving economics and poli­
tics, creating a need for more skilled 
diplomats. These more complex problems 
do not lend themselves to military solu­
tions.”
Goodby also encouraged students in­
terested in international services to en­
ter the field, regardless of their education.
“For those who have a calling, don’t 
hesitate. Those who succeed are those
who feel they have a mission. Some de­
sire to change the world,” said Goodby.
“If you have that motivation, even if 
you don’t have the right background, 
then you have what it takes to be suc­
cessful in a career of international ser­
vice.”
Students attending the lecture were 
pleased with Goodby’s remarks about 
educational background.
“He made me realize that you don’t 
need to be a political science major,” said 
Civil Engineering senior Jim Vierengel.
“I find it surprising that he didn’t feel 
any one major had an advantage over 
another,” said Melissa McAffee, a senior 
industrial management major.
Besides a varied educational back­
ground, Goodby emphasized the knowl­
edge of a foreign language as a successful 
tool in conducting international affairs.
The ability to relate to another 
country’s culture and language makes 
communications more amiable. Goodby 
also advised that a master’s degree may 
open the door to more employment op­
portunities.
After discussing the reasons for growth 
in the field of foreign affairs and .the 
prerequisites for such opportunities, 
Goodby informed the audience of the 
rewards of such services.
“You are bound to enjoy international 
service if you are curious about your 
surroundings. Living abroad is a life- 
enriching experience,” said Goodby.
The Center for the Advancement of Applied Ethics
presents
tn•C giMloeh•1C 
8 2oeMcnMTh9
with
Tom Kerr
Emeritus Professor of Law & 
Industrial Administration
Lisa Leizman
Center for Design of 
Educational Computing
Marge Myers
Executive Director, Pittsburgh 
Filmmakers
moderated by 
Robert Cavalier
Center for Design of 
Educational Computing
Tuesday, April 2,1991 
4:00 pm
Media Classroom, Baker Hall 355
npotsi te wGb wSe IrsAdrbTi
This seminar is the first in a series which will address social and ethical issues "in our 
own backyards". The purpose is to discuss issues that touch on a variety of professional 
activities and disciplines and to wrestle with some of the ethical and value-laden issues 
in our various domains.
MsW: Amjs
Film Festival Spring 1991
Fwa‘E thd‘ Tpo gEweGvg‘ohwneG mohEqonTwuo
Eat a Bowl of Tea
April 13, 7 jtni 
Adamson Wing, Baker Hall
w 5earv,0m meaiXu r1e8, r viU3u UiX me8y3i 0v hiU ”e5! DO0vr,eUv 0v ,Oi E&-RsE z ^RsQd nOi 
O8s1rvX 0s r33 wai50mrv rvX ,Oi U0ci 0s c5isO c5ea DO0vrV 18, 1e,O Oroi oi5u O0CO iIyim,r,0evs 
c5ea ,Oi05 5i3r,0ois rvX ,Oi meaa8v0,uV UO0mO 3irXs ,e seai ar50,r3 y5e13iasddd
So Far From India
April 16, 7:30 pm 
Tentative Location
A0iUi5s U033 1i mr8CO, 8y 0v ,O0s ye0Cvrv, ye5,5r0, ec r cra03u sy30, 1i,Uiiv ,Ue Ue53Xsd wsOe! 
2Oi,O 0s rv PvX0rv 0aa0C5rv, UOe Ors meai ,e hiU ”e5! ,e sii! r 1i,,i5 30ci ce5 O0s cra03uV 18, 
evmi Oi5iV Oi yes,yevis sivX0vC ce5 ,Oiad Feviu 0s smr5imiV rvX Oi 0s C5eU0vC rUru c5ea O0s 
m83,85iV 18, c0vr33u Oi Xim0Xis ,e oiv,85i 1rm! ,e PvX0rd
Slaying of the Dragon
April 26, 7 pm
Adamson Wing, Baker Hall
peUi5c83
s,i5ie,uy0____________________
0arCis~ x5 r5i ,Oi5i yes0,0oi 5e3i aeXi3s~
peUi5c83 Xem8aiv,r5u cem8siX ev ,Oi aiX0rQs yi5miy,0ev ec ws0rv4wai50mrv Ueaivd YOr, 
s,i5ie,uyis iI0s, r1e8, ws0rv Ueaiv 0v ,Oi Yis,i5v aiX0r~ Ps ,Oi “iIe,0m e50iv,r3 C053“ev3u
Free Movie, Free Pizzatdh ‘dho wGtdh‘eTwdG ndGTenT FheG eT $’J5( t.GHoH VI Id.h enTwuwTwoE too
FyMgN 
myPfk
nOi ws0rv 2,8Xiv, Pss8is De33im,0oi

---------------------------------------------------

kpo kehTeG O MehGoxwo CoaadG O 5X Cehnp 5((5N)
PIZZA OUTLET
FREE DELIVERY i90N.cn.ig 687-9555
OPEN 7 DAYS Sun - Thurs 11am - 1 am Fri & Sat 11 am - 2 am
f 2 PIZZAS $5.99 ^
Two small cheese pizzas plus 1.19 for each additional topping on BOTH pizzas.
2 Medium Pizzas 
$7.99
$1.49 for each additional 
topping on BOTH pizzas
2 Large Pizzas 
$9.99
$1.99 for each additional 
topping on BOTH pizzas
No Coupon Necessary"For Limited Time Only J
Pizza
Large (12 cuts) 
Medium (8 cuts) 
Small (6 cuts)
Price
6.60
4.95
3.45
Extras
1.25
0.85
0.70
Deluxe
11.95
8.95
6.95
Garlic Bread 
Pizza 
4.95
3.45
2.45
EXTRAS: Pepperoni, Mushrooms, Onions, Green Peppers, Sausage, Black Olives, Green Olives, Bacon, Ham, Hoi 
__________________________Peppers, Capicola. Salami. Tomato, Anchovies, Extra Cheese___________________________
HOAGIESSALADS
WholeHalf
Steak4.702.55Tossed Salad 2.25Italian4.252.35Chef Salad 3.25Ham & Cheese4.252.35
Pizza Boat. 4.252.35
SUMER2
(12 oz. cans) 
$0.55
Coke
Sprite
Diet Coke 
Iced Tea 
Root Bear
Cherry Coke 
Dr. Pepper
GUARANTEE
We stand behind our product 100%. If you are not satisfied in any way, call the store for a new pizza at no 
extra charge or receive a full refund.
OUR DOUGH IS MADE FRESH DAILY
Minimum Delivery $5.00 Limited Delivery Area
• Where’s d clean, cheap place to 
crash lor the night without a 
reservation?
• Ho»' can a woman avoid harass­
ment on the streets of Paris?
• Where can you go at 3AM for 
good Hues and a howl of bisque?
You'll never see the soul of a 
country if you look through the 
eyes of a tourist.
Finally, a travel series that 
gives you everything you need to 
how to feel like a local.
For those ready to see the 
world for what it is, The Real 
Guides.
Kenya • Mexico • Morocco • Netv Yorft • Peru • Portugal • Scandinavia • Spain • Yugoslavia • Women Travel
You won’t notice any difference, but your country will.
The five minutes you 
spend registering with 
Selective Service at the post 
office won’t change you.
But it will make a difference 
to your country. So when 
you turn 18, register with 
Selective Service. It’s quick.
It’s easy. And it s the law.
A public service message of this 
publication and Selective Service System.
The Last Lecture Series....
-oGhI eHHhoEEoE wEE.o dt w‘qhduwGx EnwoGno oH.neTwdG
By TRUPTI PATEL
Tartan Asst. Features Editor
Susan Henry, head of the Biological 
Sciences Department at CMU, will be 
presenting the third installment of the 
Last Lecture Series today at 4:30 pm in 
the Adamson Wing. Henry’s lecture, en­
titled “Searching for the Giant’s Shoul­
ders,” will address the issues of improv­
ing science education at CMU.
“I wanted the title to be enigmatic,” 
gays Henry. “The title idea comes from a 
letter Isaac Newton wrote to Robert Hook. 
He says, ‘If I have seen further than 
other men, it is by standing on the shoul­
ders of giants.’ ”
Henry believes that Newton’s words 
are important in that they signify that 
nobody can do everything on his or her 
own, and everybody has the ability to do 
something great with the help of others. 
This philosophy will be part of the focus 
of Henry’s speech. She emphasizes that 
everyone stands on a body of knowledge 
created by others, and from that knowl­
edge, people can gain new and interest­
ing insights and perspectives. “It doesn’t 
take a great genius to be able to under­
stand information and make use of it. 
One of the mistakes of education today is 
that many people make you think you 
must be extremely intelligent to under­
stand anything. You simply need the
view from the giants’ shoulders to aspire 
to something new,” says Henry.
According to Henry, one of the best 
ways to inculcate this idea into under­
graduate students is to increase per­
sonal interaction between faculty and 
students. Henry says, “There is a gulf 
between professors and students on this 
campus that is greater than I would like 
it to be.”
She asserts that improving personal 
relations among professors and students 
is essential to giving students the lead­
ing edge in college education today. “I 
don’t think you can learn science from a 
textbook. Students can’t really get a view 
of how science works from a lecture. It’s 
necessary for students to have a close-up 
view of a scientist — and professors can 
provide this.” She adds that this notion 
applies to the entire university commu­
nity, not just the department.
Henry admits that her interest in un­
dergraduate educational needs stems 
from the origins of her own interest in 
science education. During her junior year 
in high school, Henry won a science con­
test conducted by the National Institute 
of Health. Her interests in science were 
encouraged by government sponsorship.
“It was the 1960s, just after the Soviets 
launched Sputnik, and there was a lot of 
concern as to whether our students were 
falling behind in science,” says Henry.
LECTURE
SERIES
However, this type of encouragement 
seems to have fallen off in recent years, 
so students need something else to pro­
pel their interests.
Henry believes that the lack of signifi­
cant interaction between faculty and 
students on a large scale stems from 
communication problems.
According to Henry, in order to in­
crease interaction, professors must reach
out to students and students must re­
spond to the initiatives of professors.
“No matter how many times I invite 
students to come meet with me, only 
about 10 or 20 in a lecture of 300 stu­
dents will actually come talk to me. I 
don’t understand that. You pay a lot of 
money to come to CMU. You can and you 
should be able to get to know some fac­
ulty members — feel that they know you 
too.”
Henry identifies her own undergradu­
ate education as a case in point. A1968 
graduate of the University of Maryland, 
Henry says that she rarely had the op­
portunity to meet and get to know pro­
fessors. “The CMU ratio of students to 
faculty is something like six or seven to 
one. If you didn’t want to take advantage 
of that, why would you come to CMU? 
You can pay a lot less money and go to a 
large public university.” However, 
Henry says that sometimes it is difficult 
for students to interact with some pro­
fessors.
Henry says that faculty members 
should never make students feel stupid 
for any questions they have; they should 
never deride students or show sarcasm 
at students’ comments for fear that a 
student could be driven away forever.
“It is very important for faculty to take 
personal interest in students,” says 
Henry. Indeed, Henry herself likes to
spend time with undergraduate students. 
Part of the reason that Henry decided to 
take the position of head of Biological 
Sciences in 1987 was the opportunity to 
teach undergraduates.
Henry was director of Graduate Pro­
grams at Albert Einstein College of 
Medicine in New York before coming to 
CMU. “At the medical school, there 
weren’t any undergraduates. Ifyou teacE 
only graduate students, you miss the 
opportunity to teach people who haven’t 
made up their minds yet about what 
they want to do. It’s much more exciting 
to teach those in their formative stages;. 
Undergraduates are much more excited 
and open about everything,” says Henry.
Henry believes that if departments 
around the campus are willing to in­
crease student-faculty interaction, then 
it is possible. The Science Department 
encourages students to be involved in 
laboratory work. In addition, science 
students become involved in the Mentor 
Program, which pairs students with pro"- 
fessors during their sophomore year. 1*
“The necessity to give this speech has , 
been weighing heavily on my mind. It’s 
so important to have that interaction -4- 
and it can’t be done by remote control,” 
says Henry. Students have to climb the 
giants’ shoulders before they can see the 
view from the top, but they need a little 
help getting there.
D'.ea hwxpTE tdh sd‘oG o$wEToH wG oehaI PhwEp EdnwoTI
According to Young, there were sev­
eral important rights which women 
had in Celtic society.
By COLLEEN KANE
Tartan Staffwriter
j.The phrase “ancient civiliza- 
-tion” automatically conjures up 
visions of barbarism and anarchy 
among people clad in animal skin. 
However, this is not the case with 
early Irish society, which had a 
highly sophisticated legal system. 
Perhaps the most unique aspect 
of the Irish legal system was that 
women in Ireland, unlike women 
in other societies of the time, had 
equal rights.
“The evidence certainly indi­
cates that women were quite im­
portant in pre-Celtic Ireland,” said 
Christopher Yau Choy Young in 
his lecture last Wednesday, “Law 
aridRights ofWomeninthe Celtic 
Society.”
According to Young, there were 
several important rights which 
women had in Celtic society. 
Women were allowed to bring le­
gal suit against men, sign and 
negotiate contracts, and hold any 
legal position.
In addition, women had equal 
pay rights under Irish law. Re­
ferring to equal pay, Young 
mused, “That might have come 
about because some chauvinist 
male pig probably tried to get 
away with [unequal payl at one
point.” The most fascinating as­
pect of the equal pay provision 
was that women were paid for all 
types of work, even being a mother 
and housewife. This was unprec­
edented and has not been repli­
cated in law since then.
One factor which may have 
spurred the presence of equal 
rights was that the Celts, much 
like ancient Egyptians, were a 
matrilineal society. For instance, 
a king became king depending on 
who his mother, not his father, 
was. “The father becomes unim­
portant.... It is the mother who is 
important,” stated Young.
Not only was royalty 
matrilineal, but geography and 
legend were as well. The majority 
of rivers, mountains, and other 
features were named after 
women. Legend abounds with 
prominent, courageous women. 
Cesair, a woman, was the first 
person to lead an expedition across 
Ireland. Probably the most fa­
mous female legend, however, is 
Queen Meave, the great warrior 
who controlled the greatest army 
in Irish history.
During this early age, Irish so­
ciety functioned according to a 
strict legal structure, despite the 
misconception that “hordes of 
simple barbarians and savages”
ravaged the land, says Young in 
his paper, “Law and Women in 
Ancient Ireland.” Essentially, ev­
erything was done by a contract.
Seven different types of mar­
riage were considered legal within 
the state of ancient Ireland. In­
cluded among these seven was 
the keeping of concubines.
Though this seems to demean 
woman, it does have a twist. The 
first wife was legally allowed to 
abuse any of the concubines. 
Hence, if groups of concubines 
were formed, they generally did 
not exist for long. Regardless of 
whether the marriage involved 
concubinage or a one-year trial, 
the emphasis was always upon 
the legality of the contract. The 
man and the woman both had 
relatively equal say in the design 
of their marriage.
The Celts had high regard for 
the law. Because of this rever­
ence, a law enforcement system 
was not needed. “It was an un­
usual system. But it was effective
and appeared to work,” said 
Young.
Ironically, the Irish did not have 
any prisons or policemen. They 
also did not distinguish between 
civil and criminal law. Instead, 
they relied on honor. According to 
Young, each person had an “honor 
price — price corresponding to 
his status in the community. If 
that person was wronged, the vio­
lator was required to pay a fine 
equal to a fraction of the honor 
price. The more serious the crime, 
the higher the fraction to be paid. 
If the violator did not pay this 
price, he or she was deemed an 
outlaw.”
Outlaws were banished from 
society and not protected by the 
law. “If you didn’t obey, you were 
an open target. There was no 
recompensation for ignoring a 
punishment,” said Young.
The high regard Celts had for 
the law further proves the impor­
tance of women. Even high legal 
positions were occupied by
women. In fact, the most famous 
brithemain (Gaelic for judges) 
were women. “Many highly sig­
nificant laws were enforced by 
women and formed the precedents 
among men of Erin.” These legal 
precedents were accepted by the 
society and were thought to be 
very wise.
This was highly unusual for the 
time period in .which it happened. 
In the ancient world, women 
would not be allowed such posi­
tions at all, let alone afforded the 
slightest respect.
Even in the were not seen as
equals, or even allowed to par­
ticipate in the democracy. “I feel 
that ancient Irish culture was 
superior and more advanced than 
any. other culture, including 
Greek,” said Young.
The lecture was sponsored by 
the University’s Gaelic League, 
which has written up a charter 
and is waiting to be recognized by 
Student Senate, with Michael 
Newton as president. Other lec­
tures have included “Modern 
Fantasy and Celtic and Arthurian 
Tradition” and a bagpipe demon­
stration.

---------------------------------------------------

N’kpo kehTeG O MehGoxwo CoaadG O 5X Cehnp 5((5
iqoGH eG ouoGwGx aoehGwGx Tpo ehT dt o‘VehheEE‘oGT
Embarrassment is a relative thing. 
Once, I thought I saw a good friend of 
mine pull.up to the Skibo parking lot in 
his late-model metallic burgundy Toyota 
Supra. As I was in an excessively Mr. T 
mood, I ran up beside the car and, in 
conjunction with my best action-movie- 
hero scream of agony, I began to beat on 
the T-roof panels of the car just in time to 
remember that my friend’s late-model 
metallic burgundy Toyota Supra did not 
have a T-roof.
; As a somewhat freaked-out yuppie- 
type emerged from the cabin, I frantically 
gttuggled to pull together that last re­
gaining angstrom of dignity and utter a 
pathetically insincere-sounding “I’m 
dorry, I thought you were somebody else,” 
before I crawled under the nearest rock 
and died.
As this story illustrates, everyday life 
is marked by moments which most would 
rather forget. One may even postulate 
that the sum and substance of communi­
cation between human beings consists of 
the avoidance of embarrassment. Per­
haps it is because embarrassing oneself 
in public is an acknowledgement of the 
ugly, drooling little hobgoblin which 
d,wells deep inside the soul of every hu­
man being. Maybe it just has to do with 
a disdain of being looked upon as a doofus 
(or doofi in cases of multiperson embar-
JaviVision
12 cC9aDE AEaNNyopCE3iCTw
rassment). Regardless of the reason, the 
inhabitants of this vain culture have 
conferred upon embarrassing situations 
a most prominent place in the arena of 
human interaction.
For some, a simple faux pas, such as 
replying “not much” to the question “how 
are you?” constitutes a major day-shat­
tering event. For those with harder 
hearts, it takes far more to constitute 
real embarrassment.
To these brave-faced individuals, 
nothing short of the completely unin­
tended indecent exposure during 
Christmas services will cause the 
slightest tinge of pink to present itself on 
their faces.
One thing is certain—for every person 
who acquires that unenviable shade of 
crimson, there will be at least 20 who will 
share the story with a friend. From this
initial interchange, the number of people 
who know of the humiliation will jump 
exponentially. The ultimate proof of this 
phenomenon, I have discovered, comes 
when someone you have only recently 
met gives you their version of the “this 
friend of a friend of mine” opening and 
the story which follows turns out to be 
your own tale of completely unintended 
indecent exposure during Christmas 
services (something that actually hap­
pened to a friend of mine).
The care and cultivation of embarrass­
ment stories is an art all of its own. 
Although an unpleasant truth of human 
interaction is that most will stretch as 
far as they can in order to embarrass 
another i$it will bring them some sort of 
gain, politeness decrees the opposite, and 
when people are not busy embarrassing 
each other, it is very likely that they will 
be swapping stories concerning the mis­
eries of others. From the friend who 
almost got out of the speeding ticket 
with a warning until (in reply to the 
officer’s command that she report this to 
her parents) her younger sister asked 
the question “Why the fuck should we do 
that?” to the physician who got suspended 
after allowing his son to touch the in­
nards of a patient on the operating table, 
the range of embarrassing stories runs 
the gamut of human experience. The
“When the time comes in which an individual 
can relate any story involving a urine sample 
... the circle of embarrassment has become 
complete....”_________________________________
only way to save face after embarrass­
ment usually relies upon the embarrass­
ment itself.
Indeed, the terminal point of all em­
barrassment comes when the embarrass- 
ee is able to describe the humiliation for 
the pleasure of others. When the time 
comes in which an individual can relate 
any story involving a urine sample, or 
make a comment such as “I injured my­
self while tie-dyeing,” with a straight 
face, the circle of embarrassment has 
become complete, and the victim emerges 
as something of a victor, having retained 
a sense of dignity in the face of the void 
that is complete dorkness. It is for this 
reason that embarrassment, though 
generally avoided, is such an enduring 
part of human intercourse. Perhaps be­
ing seen as the drooling, socially inept, 
ugly little hobgoblins that we truly are is 
preferable to not being seen at all.
With that, I would like to present my 
most embarrassing moment ever:
My parents’'brand new Chevy Blazer 
lay in ruins on the middle of Ann Arbor’s 
busiest street at 11:30 on a Friday night. 
The drunk driver I hit (at the time I 
figured I had done society a favor) had 
just been spirited away by a team of 
paramedics who had spent the previous 
five minutes bracing every part of his 
body to a flat pane of wood in response to 
his complaint, “I have this little pain in; 
my neck” (although he was subsequently 
discharged from the hospital after less 
than five minutes in the emergency 
room).
As I sat huddled in the back of a police 
car, knowing full well that having left my 
glasses behind was a major mistake this 
time around, she turned around to face me 
and spoke those special words which echo 
inside my head to this very day.
“Hell of a first date, Javi.”
Javier Grillo-Marxuach is a senior cre­
ative writing major.
Josh Freeman/Tartan Photo Staff Manager 
Rabbi Manis Friedman spoke last Thursday on intimacy, privacy, 
and relationships. Friedmam’s lecture was sponsored by Chabad 
House. Friedmam’s new book Is entitled, Doesn't Anybody Blush 
Anymore?
f.T LhdsG gao xoTE Tp.‘VE .q
The following transcription was 
stolen from John Moocher’s per­
sonal diary. As the Pennsylvania 
Bill Saga continues, we return to 
find that John Moocher, the anal- 
retentive televangelist, has been 
sent on a search to find out what 
happened to PA Bill....
I had discovered that PA Bill 
was last seen by a woman who 
had a reputation. I won’t delve 
any further into what she does, 
but I can only hope that Jesus will 
save her. She resided in Pitts­
burgh, so that’s where I went.
I got on the First Apocalyptic 
Church of Has-Been Sinners bus 
that was headed to Pittsburgh for 
a religious convention on mar­
keting Christian products on 
infomercials. What a wonderful 
bus ride that was.
After arriving at the Greyhound 
station, I proceeded to Liberty 
Avenue, expecting a haven of re­
ligious freedom and free thinking. 
But what I found was a hotbed of 
SIN! Storefronts advertised nude 
women, Swedish massages, adult 
books, and sexual aids. And worst 
of all... alcoholicbeverages. I knew 
at once that I must investigate 
each and every store on Liberty 
Avenue. It was disgusting.
I finished my tour of the area by
AROUND THE WORLD 
IN EIGHTY BEERS
12 fD9ab mCEbD2 
x kaNNaCl miEd2
going to a local bar. As I walked 
in, a silky hand ran up my leg to 
my groin. I looked to my right, 
and I saw, sprawled out in a booth, 
a woman of such sin I cannot 
begin to describe.
“Looking for a good time,padre? 
I’ll do anythingyoulike,” she said, 
licking her lips.
“Yinzer hooker, may Jesus save 
you!” I cried, and ran to the bar. 
Well, I would have run to the bar, 
but I was still in her grasp and 
didn’t want to injure anything.
Since I could not flee, I had only 
one other recourse. I drew my vial 
of holy water and threw it in her 
face, crying, “Out, out, ye demons 
of filth who possess this child!” 
She immediately released her 
grasp and punched what she was 
just holding so dearly. I offered up
my pain to the souls in purgatory, 
as my grandmother had often ad­
vised me to do.
I crawled to the bar as a spiked 
heel kicked me several times in 
my arse. I managed to pull myself 
onto a bar stool, whereupon I saw 
that everyone there was partak­
ing of the devil’s lifeblood, beer. I 
grabbed the nearest beer to me 
and poured it on the floor. A 
random Hell’s Angel turned to 
me, looking less than pleased.
“My son,” I wailed, “May you be 
free forever from this liquid of­
fering of the Beast. Heal thyself 
and <choke>”
A large hand had grasped my 
throat and soon I was sailing into 
the ceiling. In the interest of self- 
defense, I bled profusely. As I 
passed out, I saw images of men 
in blue pointing weapons at me.
I woke up in the dungeons of 
Hell. Or it might have been the 
Western Pennsylvania Peniten­
tiary. A large woman with a 
moustache sat next to me, and a 
police officer was slumped behind 
a desk, on the other side of the 
bars. Was he dead, or just asleep? 
I debated that for hours, before 
asking the moustached woman.1
“Dead? ’E’s not dead. A copper 
ain’t dead till the doughnut falls
from ’is lifeless hand.” With this 1 
noticed that there was indeed a- 
jelly doughnut in the officers 
hand, halfway to his mouth.
Among the filth and obscenities 
scrawled on the walls, I noticed 
one lengthy composition: . •«;*.
I cannot count the hours -fita 
been trapped in this hellhoki 
Probably because it has only'beeti 
10 minutes or so. But I canwt. 
stand it. I must think about som%:. 
thing else ... anything... beer. Ui\.
The last beer I had was a Samuel 
Smith’s Nut Brown Ale. That was 
probably 15 minutes ago. Ipopped 
the top, and it smelled like beer. It 
also smelled a bit like sparkling, 
apple cider. I tasted it. It was 
similar to a stout beer, but not as 
strong, and there was very litjjg 
aftertaste. It was a brown beer„£$ 
the label hinted, and the head weft 
very thick. I always liked good 
head. It was brewed by Samuel 
Smith Old Brewery in N. Yorks, 
England since 1758. It tasted good, 
and had a cool bottle, but for $3.25 
a swig, I’ll stick to Dos Equis.
PA Bill.
Kevin Barney is a senior profes­
sional writing major.
William Burky is a senior com­
puter engineering major.
Information Session for 
Student Involvment in Admissions Process
All students interested in assisting the Admissions Office 
in recruiting the Class of '95 are cordially invited.
Time: 7:00 - 8:00 p.m. 
Date: Wednesday, March 20, 1991 Place: Skibo Room 13
If you would like to attend but can't, please return the completed 
form to the Office of Admissions by March 20, 1991.
For further information, please contact either Hyun Shin @ x5389 or Mike Rose @ x5505.
Name:
Year in School:
College:
Major:
Campus Phone #:
Home State:
Please return this form to 
the Office of Admission if 
you can't attend.
\)

---------------------------------------------------

kpo kehTeG O MehGoxwo CoaadG O 5X Cehnp 5((5N*
Fdaads Tpo Ioaads Tpwnb adeH Td DHxoseToh
Far removed from any contrived 
Springsteen, Henley, or Grushecky ren­
dition of blue-collar America, there lies 
the actual place of labor. Only there can 
the piercing, heavily rhythmic melodies 
0f industry — those of whistles, slams 
and hisses — be truly appreciated. All 
right, Grushecky comes close, but just go 
with it.
4:30 am. The alarm on my desk went 
off, showing no restraint, and the harsh 
reality of the beeping sound slowly 
pounded me out of my sleep-induced 
stupor. As soon as I was awake enough 
to realize that Judge Wapner had not 
suddenly snuck into my room to strike 
my head repeatedly with his gavel, I
WHATEVER HAPPENED TO 
PLATINUM BLONDES?
12 .bFEDr SyUDbeaby
charcoal-colored dust which formed a 
beach on the floor. There weren’t too 
grabbed my coat, told Rusty the bailiff to many objects in the place that didn’t fit
lock up, and crawled into the waiting car 
of CMU alum and metallurgist, Paul 
Janicke. We drove through the black­
ness along the great Allegheny until we 
reached his place of employment and my 
place of interest, the Edgewater Steel 
Company.
Organized in 1916, Edgewater Steel 
no time in manufacturing vital
under the “wow, that’s a tremendous (fill 
in the blank)” category. It all would have 
made more sense if there was an equally 
tremendous beanstalk climbingthrough 
the center of the building.
We stood about five feet from a roaring 
furnace which bore an uncanny resem­
blance to the spacecraft usedby renowned 
actor Bob Denver (you may know him 
products. In 1917, the plant forged cann- from his earlier roles, especially Gilligan) 
ons for the first World War and, more on the 70s television hit, Far Out Wacky 
recently,contributedtoOperationDesert Space Nuts. It was time for an educa-
through two ‘heats’ 
in a night.” 
Aworker, garbed 
from head to toe in 
a silvery protective 
suit, managed to 
pick a sample of 
melted scrap out of 
the oven with along 
metal rod. “That 
goes to Joe, in the 
lab, who finds out 
how much carbon 
is in the steel and 
tells them how 
much more melting 
they have to do.” 
Interestingly 
enough,the scraps 
used at Edgewater 
are the remains of 
the old Homestead 
Steel Mill struc­
ture. As Marty 
Stouffer might say 
in a philosophical 
voice on Wild 
America, “In this
Thomas Nichols/Tartan Senior Photographer 
Tartan staffwriter Andy Cosentino takes a trip down to the Edgewater Steel Company, located along 
the Allegheny river, with CMU alumnus Paul Janicke, a metallurgist.
It was time for an educational 
moment. Paul pointed out 
that the slag oozing out the 
back of the furnace is the by­
product of melting.
Storm by 
supplying 
steel rings 
used in air­
planes and 
other ma­
chine en­
gines. But 
ask Paul 
Janicke in 
what area 
Edgewater 
sits among
the elite, and he’ll tell you, “big mill 
product,” or more specifically, the forg­
ing of steel wheels. Mick Jagger? No, 
bite your tongue! Better yet, bite his.
Edgewater’s first steel tire was “rolled” 
in 1918, and the company has been 
churning out train wheels ever since. As 
we walked through the heart of the plant, 
I felt as though I had become wrapped up 
in some kind of Isaac Asimov creation. 
Excluding the columns of newly forged, 
gleaming train wheels, everything in the 
vast warehouse had a thick coating of
tional mo­
ment. Paul 
pointed out 
that the slag 
oozing out the 
back of the 
furnace is the 
byproduct of 
melting. “It’s 
like when you 
cook some- 
thing and 
pour off the 
grease, the stuff you don’t want. The 
scraps are heated by putting a current 
through graphite electrodes which are 
brought down until touching the scrap- 
metal. The difference between iron and 
the steel alloy is carbon, and the amount 
of carbon in the steel is controlled by the 
amount of electrodes melted.” The rea­
son we showed up at the mill well before 
the crack of dawn is because of the sheer 
amount of energy needed to perform the 
melting process. “It’s a lot cheaper when 
done in the middle of the night. We go
delicate balance we call nature, one ani­
mal dies, so that from its carcass, an­
other may live.”
As the molten steel was being poured 
out of the furnace and into the ladle, 
Paul leaned over and said quite can­
didly, “There might be some sparks 
shooting up here. If you see one going 
towards your face, try to avoid it.”
“Yes Paul, I’ll be sure to keep that in 
mind.”
I’ve run around with a sparkler in my 
hand on many a fourth of July, but I had 
absolutely no prior experience in the art 
of dodging one. I wasn’t very good.
Things had been fairly quiet for a while, 
but it didn’t last long. The plant started 
to swing into serious action. “The first 
thing they tell you when you come in 
here is that you should keep looking 
around at all times.” A magnet, more
speak I became lost in his terminology, 
and a ladle the size of a three-garage 
home loomed above me as it made its 
way across the plant on the overhead 
crane. It was all too much. I rubbed my 
eyes and clicked together the heels of my 
steel-toed boots. “There’s no place like 
home. There’s no place like home.” 
Nothing. I had become the pitiful off­
spring of two Oz characters. Not only did 
I wonder, “If I only had a brain,” as I often 
do in the land of the Painted Fence, but 
due to the recessive cowardly-lion chro­
mosome, I suffered from a courage disor­
der as well. Just as I thought about 
taking the next flight out to Kansas to 
find myself, Paul handed me a pair of 
protective glasses, pointedup to the huge 
pouring ladle, and told me to follow the 
yellow thick load.
From the ladle, the glowing liquid
than big enough to display months of streamed into a center runner which
shopping lists pinned up by an assort­
ment of refrigerators disguised as fruit, 
descended from the ceiling and gathered 
up a heap of scrap.
I hunched my head down in an effort to 
crawl into my shell. As Paul continued to
channeled the molten steel to bomb­
shaped molds called ingots, filling them 
from the bottom up.
After the steel hardens into the cylin­
drical shape of the ingot, it is cut into the 
round blocks. The blocks are preheated
to forging temperature (or until they, 
turn the color of a ripe nectarine), picked 
out of ovens by what look like giant 
horseshoe crabs, and placed into a 5,000- 
ton press system where they are indi­
vidually smashed down into a wheel 
bank. I watched the press smash down 
a few blocks and Paul enlightened me to 
the fact that I was viewing the “upset­
ting process.” I agreed. The guy working 
the machine was in tears. I offered my 
handkerchief and my condolences but he 
told me it was all part of the job.
A hole is punched through the middle 
of the wheel (despite the public’s expres­
sion of a serious need, Dunkin’ Donuts 
has no current plans for marketing these 
particular holes), after which it is sent to 
the rolling mill, which “hot works” the 
wheel to controlled dimensions and de­
sired properties. Although the wheel 
goes through a few other treatments to 
finish it off, the forging process ends at 
the rolling mill. It’s been a great run, 
don’t you think?
Andy Cosentino is an H&SS sopho­
more, and he’s fun at barbecues.
Fe‘waI eHuoGT.ho oGHE .q duoh jIdGHohU wG ^oGT.nbI
My family was going on one of 
our weekly Sunday drives one 
warm, sunny day in September. 
My father, one of those men who 
calls Sunday drives “adventures” 
when he loses his sense of direc­
tion, stubbornly refused to stop 
and ask one of the natives where 
he could find the closest local main 
road ... on the defense that he 
“knows where north is.” That 
usually means, among men whose 
egos extend heavily into their cars 
and driving skills, that he is hope­
lessly lost and refuses to show 
any kind of hint. If he does, that 
brings his guard down and makes 
him lose face in front of his wife... 
who then has a solid excuse to nag 
him incessantly until he grum-
SOUTHERN COMFORT
12 .NaUyb SCEeDE
speech and distance, if you haven’t 
noticed it before. I have brought 
out one of the most confusing turns 
of phrase ever found in the South: 
the single word “yonder”. The 
problem here is: where exactly is 
yonder?! Every Southern and 
Southwestern state in the Union 
has its own version. In Tennes- 
blingly pulls over to mumble a see, if you’re on foot, “yonder” is 
plea for directions from a local. about 200 to 300 yards. In Okla- 
This is exactly what my father homa or Texas, it’s at least five 
hates doing, with a passion. He 
would rather hike 20 miles 
through the woods till he finds
in a rocking chair with his wife 
staring out a ratty screen door. 
“’Scuse me,” said my father, “but 
do you know where the closest 
main road is?” “Just yonder,” said 
the man, and continued to sip his 
Sunday drink, looking after­
church smug in a suit that was 
new and well-tailored... about 40 
years ago. My father nodded and 
pulled off, my mother glaring at 
him ... and he just drove silently 
while the odometer clicked off 
tenths of a mile.
And then, to our relief, the 
crossroads showed up. With a 
smug turn north my father sat 
confidently in the seat, with my 
mother sitting stiff next to him ... 
exactly three miles since the first
“yonder”. Problem was, we were 
aiming for Nashville, which was 
where we were going when we got 
lost. I was the one to see the rusty 
sign on the right of the road.
“Dad,” I said, “guess where we 
are!” I was excited, for this had 
turned out to be a real adventure 
after all.
“How do you know?” he asked.
“Guess!” I insisted.
Expecting an answer from me 
like “Candyland” or “I don’t know, 
you tell me,” he asked, “Where?”
“Kentucky!” I announced.
I could hear my mother’s head 
slowly knock the dashboard in 
desperate exasperation.
It was the cheery Bluegrass 
state of Kentucky ... just yonder
from Tennessee!
I got busy counting the horses. 
My parents got busy silently 
counting solid, believable reasons 
to scream at each other when we
got home.
Alison Carter is a freshman in 
CFA. Watch out for her during 
spring break.
times that. If you’re driving in 
Tennessee, Georgia, North Caro­
lina, or any of the hilly Southern 
the first road, follow it to a gas states, “yonder” means about 1.4
station, and 
hike all the 
way back 
with a map in 
his hands...if 
his wife is not 
there. How­
ever, my 
toother was 
there, and 
with an acid 
look from her 
he pulled next 
to a tractor
My father is one of 
those men who 
calls Sunday drives 
“adventures ” when 
he loses his sense 
of direction
to3.4miles.Inthe 
Southwest it’s 
anywhere from 15 
to 50. So, like the 
alleged and yet- 
unfounded Appa­
lachian town that 
still speaks 
Shakespearean 
English, “yonder” 
seems to remain 
forever a mystery. 
And that was ex­
actly what it was
to us that day.
After about a mile (which is 
very long on a gravel road in the 
middle of a woodsy nowhere), my 
mother said, “So where is this
being driven down the road at 
about three miles an hour. “Ex­
cuse me,” my father said, “But 
where is the closest main road 
ai>d how do we get there?”
“Weeeil,” said the farmer, “yew turnoff?” She grew up in Florida 
JMust go to da junction turnoff with its version of “yonder,” the 
up yonder.” (Translation: the Swamp Yonder which is about 20 
Junction is a little way up the feet from you in any direction if 
road, you can’t miss it.) He pointed you can avoid being chomped by a 
UP the road we were going. With moccasin or rattlesnake. She was 
anodofthanks, my father passed getting impatient. My father is 
and we were on our way to also a Florida person, and was 
freedom. equally baffled by the lingo. So he
Now, there is a problem with puUeduptoanotherpersonsitting
Four Star Pizza 
Welcomes You Back 
With This Fantastic Offer!
A Laräe Cheese Pizza
WITH ONE TOPPING FREE!
BruuOnly
ADDITIONAL
TOPPINGS
50C each
Fast FREE Delivery
683-0400
Offer Valid 
To Deliveries Made 
To Campus 
Address Only.
FOUR STAR 
PIZZA
schistosomiasis | schoolhouse
Schlumberger
(shlum • bur • zha)
n. 1. a 5 billion dollar international 
measurement and systems and oilfield 
services company noted for recruiting the 
brightest engineering and scientific 
minds from all over the world. 2. 50,000 
self-motivated, enterprising achievers 
totally committed to excellence. 3. A 
place for self-starters in virtually every 
scientific and engineering discipline to 
launch exceptional careers.'
ENGINEERING 
GEOSCIENCES 
APPLIED SCIENCES
PLEASE NOTE: Open to all interested students. 
Your attendance at the Information Meeting is a 
prerequisite to our interviewing process. Please 
attend. Casual attire.
INFORMATION MEETING:
Date: March 20, 1991
Time: 7:00 pm — 9:00 pm 
Place: Skibo Room 12
INTERVIEWING:
Date: March 21, 1991
Place: Check with Placement Office
Schlumberger Industries, Schlumberger Technologies and Schlumberger Oilfield Services are equal opportunity employers.
Exceptional People. 
Exceptional Technology. 
Worldwide.
ti pal7 a pay / jr cart»; a father / h bib / eh church / d doed • e pet *\e 
be / f.fit* / £ g«igv h hat / h\v which ¦ i pit; i pie 1 ir pier ¦ j Judge / i
f

---------------------------------------------------

I'M NOBOPY.
I'M 5H0RT. ) 
I'M FtflN. y/*!
H&'HEY, MZV...you MórNeep 
fiume rensrecnfe,KTPPOL.
' /rrt£A5TY0V'fe \ wrflfw-Noeep, PBA-mm? M75XRM-
MW5AMTTBR.rmiPM/7
hzy, Hey./sey.^ 
ATCSASTYtt/'KEwrfi /m-mcep, fflp-cAKep pie..Comics
/ AT C&\5T 
yOJ'RBNOTfi pmseene. 
or apimne- cxwme T aemvN„.
/ Hey//trc£A5rW/GNCfTACOCKROACH/
.UK&
m.¦w/frA
-uxeM£.W/rr/f
y.TaeGH is a weekly feature in the Pittsburgh Post Gazette,
AND \F MSTHIHG POES, 
Bi GOLLN, I'M GOING TO 
BE READS FOfc IT/
PONT STRAIN YOUR- 
SEUV HA, HA! I'M ENSIGN TRIP TR1PLER, 
MORALE OFFICER HERB 
ON THE "MERCY"! \
viWDin gS TODM ?
WELL. HooMlolP mow.
9CMETHIHG 
CcX/LC HAPPEN 
TODAV.
YOUR SURGEON TELLSME YOUR. OPERATION me A HUMONGOUS SUCCaSS! SHE SAYS> YOU MIGHT 
EVEN Be AB LB TO RETURN TO 
YOUR UNIT AT THE FRONT!
THEY CALL ME ’HAWKEYE'! 
'CAUSE OF MY WILP QUIPS!
YOU SAY 
YOU'RE THE MORALE 
I OFFICBR?
egirvec 
CO NTIE
I JUST SAW A COMMERCIAL 
POR A LUXURY CRUISE. 
VACV4 COKE DOHT EVER 
GO OH VACATIONS LIKE THAT ?
VACATIONS ARE ALL JUST 
A MATTER OF COMPARISON.
WE SPEHD A WEEK IN COLD, 
VHCOHFORTABLE TENTS EACH 
MEAR SO LIMING HERE THE 
REST OF THE TIME SEEMS 
LUCE A LUXURS CRUISE. IF 
XOUR TR\PS ARE UNPLEASANT, 
'(CWR. WHOLE Z//3T IS A 
VACATION!
SO HOW PO YOU UKB 
THE HIGH SEAS, RAY- 
SUR3 BEATS LIFE IN THE TRENCHES,
> POESNT —"Z
rr?
PONT GET ME WRONG — A 
SAILOR'S LOT IS PANGEROUS! Burnt trxn rr Ielu"urhco­
. ING ARCHJNP IN THE MUP 
f} ANY MY! X
MYOUMAN UJAS NAVY, ANP HE USEP TO TELL M3 
? ALL THE TIME, "SON, IF 
) YOUR NUMBER'S UP, IN 
k THE NAVY AT LEAST YOU PIE CLEAN!" \
YOU JOINED 
THE NAVY 
FOR HYGIENIC REASONS?
PLEASE TELL 
ME I'M 
ADOPTED. .
THE mow, I 
AHRNC COSWI 
ofttf h f 
eaTrnarP T 
tgTpy Tte 
f .rLTiTdp
1EAU. ALL THESE EQUATIONS 
ARE L\VCE MIRACLES. tX) 
TAKE TWO NUMBERS ANO WUtH 
£ VOJ AOD THEM, THEV MAGICAU.1 
? BECOME ONE NEW NUMBER / 
j MO OHE CAN SAS WOW IT 
* HAPPENS. tW EITHER BEUEVE 
J IT OR SOÓ DOHT*
miS WWDLE BCOK 15 FUIL 
OP THINGS THAT HAVE TO 
BE ACCEPTED OH FAITH / 
IT'S A » ^
REL\G10N.' /
ANO IN THE 1 AS A MATH 
PUBLIC SCHOOLS ATHE\ST, I 
HO l£S. CALL SUOULD BE EXCOSEP 
A LAWXER. I Pm THIS .
UH... IF ITS ALL¦ OKAY. SPORT. THE SAME TO 
PICK A CARP, YOU, MON, I 
' ANY CARP! PON'TNEEPA
YOU'RE GOING MORALE OFFI- TOLOVE CERJUST r\.
/ THIS! NOW. )
HEY, NO PROB! I60TA FULL CASELOAD TODAY ANYWAY. 
WE'VE BEEN TREATING A 
LOT OF NAVY CASUALTIES FROM THE MINE EXPLO- , 
/ S/ONS... /A
MANY OF THE SWABBIES 
AR3INA BAPUJAV. THEY N5EP ME A WHOLE LOT MORE THAN SOME GRUNT WITH A 
L BUM KNEE POES!
IT'S OKAY' THOSE GUYS!/ ALWAYS WITH
S YEAH, THE GOOP- TAKEYOUR NATUREP 
/ TIME! / BARBS'.
A REUGIOH?
AN ORDINARI CHEETAU CA^ 
RJH O'iER &Ò M\LES AN HOUR. 
A HUMAN CAN UARDLS DO A 
^ WikT-r* -¿V s jo^ '
IF CATS ARE. GREAT, HOW
cove thes \m\ hme cars,
OR ROCKETS, OR BOMBS, 
OR NUCLEAR...OM.. REACTOBS, 
OR..OR... t MEAN...
AND WE CAH SEE S\K TIMES 
BETTER AT NIGHT THAN VOO 
-—CANS\y TIMES ' XL TALK
^1? AOSUT AG\L\TV /
MOJ THINK CATS 
ARE S3 GREAT/ 
WELL HUMANS 
DONT HAVE TO 
1 BE SO. FAST OR 
SO STRONG 
BECAUSE HERE YSò\\m SMARTER!
I'M CHARLOTTE PETERS, YES, THE CHOPPER PILOT KJHO
MA'AM? FLEW YOU HERE. HOW YOU \ —-^MAKING¦ \ UN­
REAL GOOD, 
CAPTAIN. ITS 
NICE OF YOU TO CHECK.
ANYTHING I CAN DO 
FOR YOU
NO, MAN,I r,AAnt,PONT WANT CMON, My? 
TO PICK A GUY, RAY
CARP. I HATE HI6H-gM,p N,“gHwk .”JJM cBT / LIKE THIS \
0 / ONE! \_____ 
OKAY, MAYBE 
LET’S NOT NOT THE UEU-GETCAR- TENANT. BUT
RJEPAUJAY. TVE DEFINITELY\ BONDED WITH
V-r-rr^ THESER- GEANTS!
THE THRILL OF THE CHASE IS 
93 DIMINISHED WHEN ONE'S 
PREV HAS LITTLE LEGS. ^
SOLPIERS DONT REALLY FIGHT 
FDR IDEALS, OR FOR COUNTRY, OR POR GOP. WE FIGHT FOR EACH 
OTHER. AFTERSIX..MONTHSIN THE 
DESERT TOGETHER, iVSMYBUMft, 
MY NCOS, MY LIEUTENANT, I'M 
_ WILLING TO PIE FOR'
I WONDER HOIU YOU SAID,MPCw mMH“J. Et O”w“JD
°uÌr'^aSSfS HÌMREMIN16 NOT THE SAME YMMFUIHAT WITHOUTHIM...
OUTHERE...
HA ! I LANDED ON CUANCE / 
I GET TO TAKE A CARD.'
IT SAXS,"DEPRAUD THE BANK. 
COMPUTER SCAM DWERTS 
ASSETS TO ^UR ACCOUNT. 
COLLECT ¿5.000.
I THINK I'LL BUM A FEVJ 
DOIEN HOTELS. _________oHRHJHck Sl bHDs vWR
WHEN VOO MAKE VOJR 
OWN CHANCE Cfv&DS.
IT TURNS OUT I WAS RESPONSIBLE FOR. 
9,000 AMERICAN KBS'S THIS WEEK!
YEAH.MOVINGSTUFF...
TALK ABOUT YOUR FRIENDLY 
FIRE, HUH ?
NEWS FROM HOME, BUTTS -.KILLEP BY 
SMOKING.
AddGoEV.hI is a daily feature in the Pittsburgh Post GazetteMeauwG eGH -dVVoE is a daily feature in the Pittsburgh Press

---------------------------------------------------

By GARY LARSON
‘Uh-oh, Lenny ... It’s the slimelord."You just take your victim, slip 'em into the flex- 
¦tube, flip the switch, and the Mr. Coils o’Death 
takes over."iii.a-.- ~Ns^v
'Oh, man! You must be looking for 'Apartment 3-G,’ 
‘Mary Worth’ or one of those other 'serious'
cartoons." r~
Houdinl’s final undoing
'Hey, look ... you knew when you married me 
that I was a non-working breed."fr\v) (*tb'rV5 aie 
o-iç not
y \Jer#c) Uni
\ failesvn^.
A fvlooetV>e^55j 
v \yoar fiestocê 
I \ Weet !S 
e wieceSSaty./
Ak,
you rise- 
3 cx^oioÿze 
rsrtyo neceS SHy of- 
oWocfioo 
you. ,
Tke AJ'/ervTLXS-S of
|v'/v\W'
IU cxCe. a- 
ifeocr
ioe, 'tv,'’“3h 
f’oT V*1’ 
(c^ow rt- ,
V»e
TABLEC
\ ^ J,
\M<xi'V o. \ 
Yniovn£- 
^ov;
I Pi css
is a daily feature in the Pittsburgh Post Gazette.
f ¦<. ^HArs N
ON-' J
frTox oacborv
^ <é-£> S&e VJHAf
rtnN w
dtRbh mS.uvwwfG cCitCflSHrnEflE. , youVB)
G,oTT0 CO one
|JSI pffle I v/H/rr IS 1-r?
Heur v7/wh^td^ you, 
v. no A/»W ? V
ONS A <, BUP j
i t?<?u-r SEg\ -rA*^ T7/E,tL 
vJHy yoORfi \ Ateniosr
upset*/ 3: MEAtJ, \ rtfey ¿>veN
AU-VJûHESl „ 1 \JZe-TU&1 p
jrMV irw* c£3?o 1eV-l/ Saamfxl^ *r\~T l,h'^°I6S/ Vo° \
/ I / HA'JeuS>vUUWEûM£»\ ' 
I /v. / V its vior sexisr-\ ITS. PROVO CAT ! VB ' J
'\A/bolworih
Ten Thorson
r-r^ nIeim m£ 3 CiA opaJwMy1PiofU
HE.JSGoM& (\JUTS !
—-^TrÂÏ&JE^ hOAomOa 
C /'g.iTHERof NoU 1 
. —( UtRE
K. pe.2hB, Ywhn ro BE O a 
PART o F -THE FLoc-lc )^r/'
PiN Y5veT . J K* Yrr^n2 
B-fAiBJnNT £ J K. ^
' Wê'ré- mJTESTIN^. * 
hsicl rsexisr <nz^ 
ycju'ee
-THe -iAMVAJS^f
¿avj î: héî-p you 
BAees ;Uri'; udjCg f*
^ MlJ1RW hS£?vJHy c>fN-r 
•/¿>U ’PBOTB'S-T l-AST- 
N16HT, WHEhJ VJËXiTlUi^U-V
Txacme •pMzryf///
-/eAH- 
t<3N0rS,,TCK3. 
tA^£-Y-\/ ^Munich !
vtooke •s.-nzsirr^«^ rovi«, r^Vi^ «a-*AOViN\i>T~NTTl-ru-oe. ¦A4AMELESS*i-V/ AMD W&'(ZÊ KJi^T" éOlWé» TO ^TAVlP f=t?tZ. Tic
v*HAT PÛ VOO^
ADLi. Tvtev'pe
A BVJVU:^ ¿3f= 
¿JZLS ///
F^-TVC. ^ ¿«CAM w
'HWX kxT nK. ¿¿T2 V cïo|hJD wFf fcY. 0 /

---------------------------------------------------

S',wui4 tas
xbcd’T sm?I Û<j3i-<sss^r> ^¡nsH^e /\\*)!»!' cM¡>W
B B“ h0c We 2*"^ ^
'" vAe^¿T°r'''J^7en‘l aW¿f-3(|0vU 
^T’\p,-H»n s?çP^ UP 0,1 ^ ^'3 i ‘f ^ mi5í'i'//i 
..... , “w'klwfäK/K'ftK /
z,” jfe/ c?¿>o(4'f ^
^¡DSé SfAó°^& /y¡na /\it^
^¡-fK no Cin^WM«^5 ú^' •ffi-eV desip« tV?rWK¡n(j +lr>e 
aef. •• $h ipare. Jf X WAS-^e' 
(fti-^Ker, 4 y ôvçf^
r*i7 frute d4 ^'/e .oomfc. 
spikes’ into-fUeí'S- S*ff <\cN b^N ¡n -fH^ 
Uetce («erin^>p ^ s-fi
ÍJJ7 c0Fi 
¡x^iy wK~ 0x­olitl,kn­so
ie¿,pER [)F TO£ FRFETIFP OH FB AMS
Oi0m¦ Be70* 1rv«¦B<c<¦|0d
V^ot'.o^hv-» jtysfceU-)
DR.TON6UF
RtALLy.
^r\^5 C(o^ proxí^'tY
\Ac!, o-i t tí Uíxs-rt o-f l\ ' s viAdo í'^ .
í‘‘ÍíY

---------------------------------------------------

2,8Xiv, Dea0ms
2,8Xiv,4X5rUv mea0ms r5i X8i ,Oi k50Xru 
1ice5i FevXru y8130mr,0evd
9iroi s81a0ss0evs 0v ,Oi w5,BDea0ms f5ey 
xcc f5rUi5 1u F0Xv0CO, 0v nOi nr5,rv ecc0miV 
2!01e ^Rd x5 mev,rm, JeOv 90v @ IWEEEd
L0A1ING
KXJOiMMY DEfPAMfU
J43w¦ •enxp3x 
Softer seftyicé
ft«*«! MOUJ
•ftou HAJfe TO 
up "THfe 
c,”mK0m ne m 
c,~9| ££«**~
fbuce? w
G?W
te-<Wuew= 
eflawr«**
ms Aeei, 
s? -¡it ftrttrtc 
K-CUBS,
Ip Y«J n1fc 
w^twr ¿WWtf
WeftWUAS
Ye>0 WDOCD 
-”” ,P?Df
TH6 fSltWC TO
ME rtKHow.i RWlC?
mW
colle­
giate
cross­
word
©Edward Julius Collegiate CW83-30
m
2345
678510111213
1415
161/
1819
20«
21
2223M
2627«
28
2930
313233
3536
373B
394041
42IF!44
45il
464'
4849I-
blb2
53«
55Sb¦
ACROSS42 Hardens11 "Hountain -------
43 Representative12 ------- of iodine
1 Exclude(abbr.)13 Cape -------
6 Power44 Iranian coin14 Concealer
14 Cuban cigar45 Letter trio20 washing machine
15 Standards46 Baseball hall-of-cycle
16 Type stylefamer, George -------23 Turns down17 Showing deep47 African antelope25 — of Aquitaine
respect48 Henu term (3 wds.)27 Natural talent
18 Carried out50 Attribute28 Of strong emotion
19 Obliterates53 Shirk30 "Lost Horizon"
21 Prefix: outside54 Looked at slylylocale22 "If ------- 1 Would55 Knitted garments31 word gane
leave You"56 Collect together32 Delicatessen food24 Hore mature33 Poe’s "The -------25 Being: Sp.DOWNHeart"26 Explains again34 Light laughter
28---------de-lis1 Grammatical case36 Loungers29 “The Hill on the2 Eluded38 Medieval
3 Amount in anentertainer
30 "The Treasure ofaccount (abbr.)39 Hedieval Turks
the ------- Hadre"4 Black cuckoo40 French city
31 Put into action5 Ethnic disturbances 41 Stuck together
34 "------- have it”(2 wds.)43 Funeral hymn
35 Cognition6 Abrades46 Capital of Chile
36 Emulate students7 Threes: Sp.(abbr.)37 To go: Fr.8 "Cry He a -------"49 Government agency
38 Apollo 16 comnander9 Sumners in Soissons51 Hebrew letter
(2 wds.)10 Saul1s uncle52 ------- soup
These are the answers to last issue's puzzle.
BDBunnananPi nrann ?BCHDDC1QL1DQ ????HHHQQnmBaa ocjhq 
A/sr ?????aaaa??? CJULJ HCJUELf 
?QGQ DHDQQQ ??? BHDGIQH ???BSESQB ?QQ0 ???? BDDHQDQB HHOQaQ QQD DDEH3QB GJEftUB S3QEJBQ ??? ???QGUBQUDQE1 ????0HCJB ??????aaaa0Q0E ????aaaaaLi DBH0 QBBQQOaHSU

---------------------------------------------------

There’s an IBM PS/2 made for every student body. 
And budget.
PlF p2BW:Fxf.9 
(R WM* ’n(EG
Fxf.9 
(R WM* ’N(EG
Fxf.9 
^^ 2X ’N(EG
Fxf.9 
^^ 2X ’n*EG
Fxf.9 
^^ 2X ’Y*EG
Fxf.9 
©R ’n*EGFxf.9 
©R ’Y*EG
Fiae5uEFlEFlWFlWFlWFl-Fl-Fl
p5emisse5MRWM* ’ER FKLGMRWM* ’ER FKLGMR(M*2X“ ’E* FKLGMR(M*2X ’E* FKLGMR(M*2X ’E* FKLGMR(M*Q” ’E* FKLGMR(M* ’E* FKLG
(d^40vmO X0s!i,,i X50oiEd--FlEd--FlEd--FlEd--FlEd--FlEd--FlEd--Fl
k0IiX X0s! X50oi(RFl(RFl(RFl*RFl*RFl*RFl*RFl
F0m5e DOrvvi3: 
r5mO0,im,85ihehe”is”is”is”is”is
f0sy3ruM^EW De3e5M^E( De3e5M^E( De3e5M^E^ De3e5M^E^ De3e5M^E^ De3e5M^E^ De3e5
Fe8si”is”is”is”is”is”is”is
2ec,Ur5ifx2 -dR 
F0m5esec,: 
Y0vXeUsQ• (dR
fx2 -dR 
F0m5esec, 
Y0vXeUs (dR 
F0m5esec, Ye5X ce5 
Y0vXeUsQ•t* 
OfD Y0vXeUs 
N,030,0is•** 
Z2ec, 2ec,nuyiQ•***
fx2 -dR 
F0m5esec, 
Y0vXeUs (dR 
F0m5esec, Ye5X 
ce5 Y0vXeUs** 
OfD Y0vXeUs 
N,030,0is“ 
Z2ec, 2ec,nuyi”*
fx2 -dR 
F0m5esec, 
Y0vXeUs (dR
fx2 -dR 
F0m5esec, 
Y0vXeUs (dR 
F0m5esec, Ye5X ce5 
Y0vXeUs** 
F0m5esec, .Imi3Q•** 
OfD Y0vXeUs 
N,030,0is** 
Z2ec, 2ec,nuyi***
fx2 -dR 
F0m5esec, 
Y0vXeUs (dR
fx2 -dR 
F0m5esec, 
Y0vXeUs (dR 
F0m5esec, Ye5X ce5 
Y0vXeUs** 
F0m5esec, .Imi3** 
OfD Y0vXeUs 
N,030,0is** 
Z2ec, 2ec,nuyi***
p50mi$EV*-&*$EV©&&*$WV(-&*$WV*&&*$WV©&&*$(VM&&*$(V&&&*
Whether you need a computer to write papers or create 
graphics, charts and spreadsheets, there’s an IBM Personal 
System/2® that’s right for you and your budget. The IBM 
PS/2 family of computers has everything you asked for— 
including preloaded software, a special student price and 
affordable loan payments.
Give one a try. We’re sure you’ll find one that fits you 
and your wallet just right.
And on a different note, for only $599 you can get the
IBM “SPRING FLING” MARCH 18th
Skibo Faculty Lounge 5—7 pm
For more information, contact your IBM Collegiate Representatives:
Hyun Shin Brian Buzzelli Mike Tucker
237-4048 237-4719 237-4754
•This offer is available only to qualified college students, faculty and staff that purchase PS/2 Selected Academic Solutions through participating campus outlets or IBM 1 800 222-7257.
SimT0led d0 not include sales tax- handling and/or processing charges. Check with your institution regarding these charges. Orders are subject to availability. Prices are subject to chanqe 
and IBM may withdraw the offer at any time without written notice. “Microsoft Word for Windows, Microsoft Excel and hDC Windows Utilities are the Academic Editions. ***ZSoft SoftType is 
the Academic Version. ®IBM. PS/2, Micro Channel and Personal System/2 are registered trademarks of International Business Machines Corporation. Microsoft is a registered trademark of 
Microsoft Corporation. Roland is registered trademark of Roland Corporation, US. '“Proprinter is a trademark of Internati'onal Business Machines Corporation. Windows Word for Windows and 
Excel are trademarks of Microsoft Corporation. hDC Windows Utilities is a trademark of the hDC Computer Corporation. ZSoft SoftType is a trademark of ZSoft Corporation 80386SX and 80386 are trademarks of Intel Corporation.
©IBM Corporation 1991
Boland® Desktop Music System that transforms your IBM 
PS/2 with Micro Channel into an exciting, comprehensive 
music maker.
2roi ev ,Oisi y50v,i5sV ,ee)
PlF p5ey50v,i5Q• PPP UBmr13i ’-WRE FeXi3 (G$(-&PlF p5ey50v,i5 XW-. UBmr13i ’-WR© FeXi3 WG$-&&PlF p5ey50v,i5 X9 W-. UBmr13i ’-WRM FeXi3 WG$*©&PlF 9rsi5p50v,i5 . UBmr13i ’-RE& FeXi3 .REG$EVR(&KiU3i,,4prm!r5X pr0v,Ji, me3e5 C5ryO0ms
y50v,i5 UBmr13i ’FeXi3 Kp (*(R4wG$©&&

---------------------------------------------------

Guilty By Suspicion should have been titled Guilty By Boredom
1991 proves to be the most confusing season in TV history
By MARK A. ROCES
Tartan Staffwriter
Director Irwin Winkler has 
taken one of the darkest and most 
fascinating periods of Hollywood 
history, recruited one of the 
greatest and most popular actors 
of our time, and made one of the 
lamest and most uninspiring 
movies of the year.
Guilty By Suspicion stars Rob­
ert De Niro as David Merrill, a 
¡popular Hollywood director, who 
'falls victim to the infamous com­
munist witch-hunts of the fifties.
The picture opens up with De 
Niro coming home to Hollywood 
¡from shooting a film in Paris. Once 
home, he finds a less lively and 
more paranoid Hollywood than 
he left. Soon enough he finds the 
root of the fear, as he learns that 
he has to appear before the House 
Un-American Affairs Committee 
(HUAC) which is investigating 
the alleged “un-American” inter­
ests of key Hollywood figures.
— Movie Review —
?72 GUILTY BY SUSPICION. A
X5rar,0m 3ee! r, ,Oi Ke33uUeeX 
13rm!30s, i5r ec ,Oi E&^Rsd 2,r50vC 
Te1i5, fi h05eV wvvi,,i liv0vCV 
gie5Ci YivX,V rvX pr,50m0r Yi,,0Cd
This accusation of being “un- 
American” is a lot more dangerous 
to both De Niro’s career as well is 
his life in general than he first 
realizes. However, the entire 
situation can quickly be solved by 
appearing before the committee 
and giving the names of people 
falsely suspected of communist 
activity. The reward for this be­
trayal of his friends would be the 
director’s chair for a new movie. 
But not cooperating would put De 
Niro on a blacklist, rob him of his 
friends, a career which he loves, 
and, possibly, his family.
Guilty By Suspicion is set up as 
some sort of morality play, as De 
Niro must choose between his self­
interests and his honor. But think 
nothing of such an elaborate sce­
nario, as this movie progresses 
more like the frames of a bad 
comic strip. The only way that we 
know that De Niro loves his mov­
ies mor^ than anything else is 
because ofthe line: “David, I know 
how much you love your movies 
more than anything else,” which 
is repeated at least three times.
The other side of De Niro is 
displayed with equal success as 
we are presented with De Niro — 
the reformed family man. During 
his period as a blacklisted bum 
we are shown the more “impor­
tant” things in life. Winkler 
throws in some scenes between 
father and son that have been 
acted with greater success on such 
sitcoms as Alf. And the interac­
tion between husband and ex-wife 
is something Winkler must have 
pulled out of a book of pre-gen- 
erated movie scenes. Nothing 
should be mentioned of Annette 
Bering's acting as Ruth, De Niro’s
Winkler throws in some scenes 
between father and son that have 
been acted with greater success on 
such sitcoms as Alf.
wife, for one might argue whether 
that was even acting.
Winkler contrasts De Niro’s 
character with that of Joe Lesser 
and Bunny Baxter, played by 
Martin Scorcese and George 
Wendt respectively. Scorcese is a 
Hollywood director and professed 
communist. He prefers to fly off to 
England rather than face the 
paranoid wrath of the committee.
Wendt is De Niro’s longtime 
friend and a successful movie 
writer. He gets pulled into the 
turbulence of the HUAC, and 
decides that, he might want to 
cooperate and give names. This is 
supposed to be the first serious
movie role for Wendt, who is 
everyone’s favorite Norm 
Peterson on Cheers. His role is 
more that of a ridiculous melo­
drama — so ridiculous that it 
borders on comedy.
However, don’t blame every­
thing on Wendt. Blame the script, 
the movie, and Winkler. This is 
not Guilty By Suspicion, it’s Guilty 
By Boredom. If it was Winkler’s 
intent to give the audience a sense 
of aimlessness by showing two 
hours of De Niro’s pointless 
wandering, than he certainly has 
achieved it. One might argue that 
the movie showed De Niro’s de­
velopment through inner
struggle, but such a struggle could 
have been better shown if Winkler 
had De Niro sit in a chair in an j 
otherwise empty room for two] 
hours, pondering his decision. It', 
certainly would have been more! 
interesting.
If De Niro loved his movies, ' 
than that’s what the audience; 
should have been shown. If De-* 
Niro faced one of the most difficult-' 
decisions of his life, than that, 
difficulty should be expressed. If] 
this was Hollywood’s darkest pe- ’ 
riod, let’s see the darkness — not' 
just a bunch of words, not just a 
bunch of prefab scenes, and not; 
just a bunch of cardboard char­
acters.
Perhaps Winkler made thi$ 
movie with the idea of warning 
people about crimes that are comf 
mitted in the name of patriotic 
duty. Instead, he states an argui- 
ment for supporting selective 
blacklisting — which the public 
should practice when it comes to 
this movie.
©1991 Warner bros. inc. ©1991 Warner Bros. Ind.
Robert De Niro lashes out at questioning during the House Un-American Committee hearings in Guilty By Robert De Niro and Annette Bening face reporters’ questions about their hearing at the House Un-American 
Suspicion. Affairs Committee.
SRDRCRUE aeToET sdhb TeqE wGTd Eouohea Ed.GHE
By ED LEE
Tartan Staffwriter v
From the crowded bars of Athens, 
Georgia, to the packed arenas of New 
York, Chicago, and Los Angeles, R.E.M. 
continues to evolve in a music industry 
full of untalented sellouts. The'group’s 
seventh album, Out of Time, leaves the 
rock ‘n’ roll guitar sound behind for a 
•more textured sound with acoustic in­
struments, organs, horns, harpsichords, 
land congas.
The band seemed concerned with get- 
; tingthe sound that it wanted. So it played 
!a variety of different instruments and 
¦brought in other musicians to help out. 
!Kate Pierson of the B-52s sings on two 
songs, KRS-1 of Boogie Down Produc­
tions raps on the first track, and a horde 
;of others contribute to string arrange­
ments, steel guitar, saxophones, bass
— Record Review —
???AW OUT OF TIME. lu Td.dFdV Tiy50si 
Time5Xsd
clarinet, and even a flugelhom. This 
album presents the growing maturity of 
the band, as it seems that they have 
grown to tap other sources of sound with 
such a big supporting cast and play a 
variety of instruments that they may not 
be accustomed to.
Bill Berry plays drums, congas, and 
bass; Peter Buck plays electric and 
acoustic guitar and mandolin; Mike Mills 
plays organ, bass, keyboard, piano, and 
harpsichord; and Michael Stipe adds 
vocals and helps out on some string and 
horn arrangements.
Also, Peter Holsapple, former leader of
the dB’s, continues his association with 
the band from the last tour and plays 
bass and guitars on about half of the 
album.
The appearance of string arrangements 
and organ on nearly every track adds an 
extra texture to the album that set§ it 
apart from their previous works. This is 
added to some of the raw, acoustic, man­
dolin sound featured in “Hairshirt” and 
“You Are the Everything” from the Green 
LP. The predominantly acoustic sound 
and the array of instruments on each 
track on Out of Time sets it apart from 
any of R.E.M.’s previous albums. Also, 
there aren’t any cheesy, fluke hits like 
“Stand.”
Harmonies from Stipe and Co. add 
spice to the sound on this album. “Near 
Wild Heaven” goes a little overboard on 
the idea and resembles some Beach Boys 
stuff. This song will become more and
courtesy Reprise Records
more obnoxious the more one listens.
Overall, there seems to be more of an 
emphasis on vocals. Stipe finally plunges 
into the love song genre after leaving the 
subject untouched in previous record­
ings. In addition, his voice has neve£ 
been more articulate and coherent. Thi$ 
is another sign of the band evolving, a£ 
no one will need a lyric sheet to follow 
along.
The first single released from Out of 
Time, “Losing My Religion,” is the most 
mainstream of all the cuts on the album I 
The tune features a combination of a 
jangly acoustic sound with Buck on 
mandolin. Stipe’s vocals soar on this up-^ 
tempo tune delving into the idea of losing 
one’s true self in the attempt to seem 
desirable and unique. Stipe also flour­
ishes on “Low,” a quiet, morbid expres­
sion of the turmoil of love.
“Radio Song” grooves (as much as 
R.E.M. can) with Mills’ funky organ 
movement and the help of KRS-1. This 
ranks up with “Can’t Get There From 
Here” and “Lightning Hopkins” in terms 
Please see R.E.M., page L14
The other day I was thinking 
that there are few fates worse 
than not being able to find your 
favorite program. So I sat myself 
¡down and wrote a list of all the 
ishows that have undergone 
¡schedule changes recently. Before 
'I knew it, the list had reached a 
ridiculous length and something 
slowly sank in — how little con­
tinuity this TV season has had. 
Every single week seems to bring 
new shows in new time slots. The 
networks’ goal may be increased 
ratings, but the result has been 
confused viewers.
For those of you who have no 
idea where your favorite show 
has gone (or when, or if,it’s com- 
ingback), I have compiled a night- 
by-night list of recent changes 
and trends in TV land. This re-
THE LAUGH TRACK
12 .5 LECbdNab kwDDNDE
fleets the most recent announce­
ments by the networks and should 
be accurate for at least another 
week.
Monday. CBS, 10 pm: The 
Trials of Rosie O’Neill hasn’t been 
on the air for a while; it moves to 
Friday in April. Northern Expo­
sure, last summer’s quirky drama 
about an Alaskan doctor, takes 
over this time slot next month.
On the horizon: Look for NBC 
to replace Blossom (8:30 pm) if 
the ratings don’t pick up.
Tuesday. ABC, 10 pm: Eddie 
Dodd, a new lawyer show starring 
Treat Williams, premiered last 
week. Thirty something will be 
back in late April to wrap up its 
season.
On the horizon: Once-powerful 
Who’s the Boss (ABC, 8 pm) has 
fallen to third place in recent 
weeks. Just a hunch, but ABC 
might try Family Matters in that 
slot before the season’s over.
Wednesday. CBS, 8 pm: 48 
Hours goes on hiatus in April, 
replaced by a few Prime Time Pets 
specials at 8 pm and the return of 
Family Man, also known as “Gre­
gory Harrison Without a Shirt,” 
at 8:30 pm.
NBC, 9:30 pm: Dear John has 
movedback to Wednesday nights, 
replacing Seinfeld (which shows 
up on Thursday in April).
CBS, 10 pm: After a quiet ab­
sence, WIOU is back in its origi­
nal slot.
NBC, 10 pm: With great fanfare, 
Quantum Leap has returned to 
its original slot, and so far has 
delivered acceptable ratings.
On the horizon: Both Equal 
Justice (ABC, 10 pm) and WIOU 
could be in trouble. Look for re­
placements for both by the end of 
the season.
Thursday. CBS, 8 pm: Top 
Cops (read: Cheap TV) expands 
to an hour, as CBS gives up this 
time slot yet again.
ABC, 9 pm: Everyone should 
know by now that Twin Peaks is
The networks’ goal may be increased 
ratings, but the result has been 
confused viewers.
returning on March 28 with a 
synopsis episode covering the 
season so far. I know it’s during 
Spring Break; “give peaks a 
chance” ¿md tape it. Gabriel’s Fire 
goes on hiatus.
CBS, 9 pm: The Flash moves to 
Saturdays, Good Sports goes on 
hiatus, and an as-yet- 
unannounced drama premieres 
here. It doesn’t matter what the 
show is, unless it’s aimed specifi­
cally toward the three or four 
people who aren’t watching Twin 
Peaks or Cheers.
NBC, 9:30 pm: Seinfeld gets 
another tryout in the desirable 
post -Cheers slot in April, as Wings 
flies into hiatus-land.
On the horizon: Cheers produc­
ers are demanding an outrageous 
raise for next season. If an agree­
ment can’t be reached, look for 
NBC to try out some different 
shows at 9 pm. If nothing else 
works, there’s always Night 
Court, which has been renewed 
for next season.
Friday. NBC, 8 pm: There’s 
Please see TV, page L14

---------------------------------------------------

55(kpo kehTeG O MehGoxwo CoaadG O 5X Cehnp 5((5
idhdhwTwoE q.T dG eG w‘qhoEEwuo Epds
Junior chemical engineer Kay C. Dee opens up Kappa Kappa Gamma’s 
Godspell with a strong solo.
By STEPHEN GLICKER
Tartan Diversions Editor
Even though only one house 
can win the sorority division of 
Greek Sing, all four houses put on 
spectacular shows and no doubt 
made the judges’job hell this year.
Delta Gamma was the first so­
rority to perform in Greek Sing 
with its rendition of Guys and 
Dolls. Sisters and pledges adorned 
the stage dressed in both men’s 
and women’s attire of the 1940s 
and promptly began to show off 
their singing and dancing ability 
with the song “Guys and Dolls.”
H&SS sophomore Kimberly 
Loughran then took center stage 
decked out in a snazzy suit and tie 
to sing, “Oldest Established” while 
senior professional writing major 
Kelly Walsh and H&SS sopho­
more Rachel Schall sang beside 
her. DG continued its performance 
with “Fugue For Tin Horns,” but 
it’s the later part of their show 
which was most memorable.
The DGs began to really pick up 
the pace — dancing up a storm . 
while at the same time filling the 
auditorium with powerful vocals 
from “Marry the Man.” Finally, 
by combining solos from 
Loughran, Walsh, and Schall, as 
well as strong, clear, singing from 
the rest of DG, the net result was 
an extremely energetic “Luck Be 
A Lady” which left the audience 
wanting more.
Senior Andrea Boyer, DG’s voice 
chairman and an IM major, was 
very pleased. “We were just try­
ing the best we could do,” said 
Boyer. “Compared to other years 
that was our best performance.”
Kappa Kappa Gamma took 
center stage next and for a brief 
moment transported the Soldiers 
and Sailors auditorium back in 
time to the turbulent’60s with 
Godspell. From start to finish the 
sisters and pledges from Kappa 
kept the audience constantly busy 
with their quick dance moves, 
dazzling set, colorful costumes, 
and powerful vocals. However, 
Kappa’s choreographer, Trish 
Nelson, a junior professional/cre- 
ative writing major, at times had 
her doubts. “I would have never 
thought it would have been able 
to be done. All these girls, danc­
ing and singing while putting their 
all into it. But they did it.”
From the first song, “Prepare 
Ye,” to the last, a reprise of “Pre­
pare Ye,” Kappa presented a 
memorable performance which 
was truly a feast for the senses.
Delta Delta Delta had a tough 
act to follow when it’s members 
came out to perform Fame. But 
armed with imaginative scenery, 
great choreography, and strong 
singing, Tri-Delt not only man­
aged to come in first place the 
sorority division, they came in 
first place overall.
The high point of Tri-Delt’s per­
formance was no doubt sopho­
more voice major and musical 
director Margaret Gates’ solo. “It’s 
such a wonderful feeling getting 
up there and doing this,” said 
Gates. “It’s just complete elation.” 
However, the entire company has 
to be given credit as well for 
singing the songs “Never Alone,” 
“Fame,” and “I Sing the Body 
Electric” with the power necessary 
to fully appreciate these songs.
Thomas Nichols/Tartan Senior Staff Photographer 
H&SS sophomore Kimberly Loughran and H&SS sophomore Rachel 
Schall take center stage for Delta Gamma. DG placed second in the 
sorority division.
The entire company should also 
be given credit for their dancing 
ability as well, as they managed 
to break out of the “militaristic” 
dancing usually found in Greek 
Sing. By use of smooth, fluid mo­
tions and grace, Tri-Delt put on a 
show which lived up to the danc­
ing found in the original film 
Fame. As a matter of fact, the 
performance was so different from 
most of the other sororities’, it 
almost seemed out of place in 
Greek Sing, and more at home in 
a dance recital.
The final sorority show was Chi 
Omega’s The Music Man. Though 
not the most elaborate produc­
tion in Greek Sing, it was still 
well received. “We just want to 
make a good showing, and show 
people what we can do,” said ChiO 
Sing Chair Heather Stevens, a 
junior creative writing major.
If there was anything lacking 
in ChiO’s performance, it defi­
nitely wasn’t songs. Singing well- 
known tunes such as “Wells Fargo 
Wagon,” “Gary Indiana,” and “76 
Trombones,” and dancing in time 
to the music, ChiO put on an 
enjoyable show which the audi­
ence enjoyed. “We have a good 
time, and it’s for a good cause,” 
added Stevens.
Once the dust had settled and 
Greek Sing came to an end, Tri- 
Delt came in first and DG came in 
second. However, Greek Sing 
doesn’t center solely around com­
petition and charity. Danielle 
Crail, a junior Tri-Delt IM major, 
probably summed up Greek Sing 
best when she said, “I just get a 
lot of satisfaction out of perform­
ing and working towards a goal 
that’s not just scholastic. Greek 
Sing’s just a lot of fun.”
Fraternities offer a wide range of acts
By MEGAN DIETZ
Tartan Assistant News Editor
Friday night, 10 fraternity houses 
transformed themselves into Oompah- 
Loompahs, Jamaicans, and residents of 
Sesame Street as a part of Greek Sing 
lddl. Some houses in the division took 
themselves very seriously, and others 
created their act on Friday afternoon, 
but they all had fun — a feeling they 
managed to pass on to the audience.
The brothers and pledges of Kappa 
pelta Rho opened the division’s compe­
tition with their hilarious rendition of 
'Willie Wonka and the Chocolate Factory. 
‘Oompah-Loompahs, decked out in white 
jumpsuits, red shirts and face makeup, 
green hairspray, and red-and-white 
striped stockings, took the stage for the 
“Oompah-Loompah song.”
; During their next song, “The Candy 
Man,” brothers wore huge grins as they 
performed the sickeningly sweet chore­
ography, and Hershey kisses traveled 
along an assembly line in the background. 
KDR then brought down the house with 
its closer, another segment of the 
“Oompah-Loompah song,” this time 
performed big-time Broadway style, 
complete with can-can kicks and a cho­
rus line.
Before the show, KDR Greek Sing chair 
Paul Hadavas, a senior in mathematics, 
said, “I feel positive about it [Greek Sing]. 
I’m glad we could put on something both
entertaining and for the benefit of a 
charity. I know my fraternity has a lot of 
fun with it.” KDR was the recipient of the 
chairman’s choice award for best exem­
plifying the spirit of Greek Sing.
Next up in the fraternity division was 
Pi Kappa Alpha with Animal Sounds, 
which actually turned out to be a souped- 
up version of that old campfire classic, 
“Home on the Range.” With lyrics refer­
ring to Pika’s dominance in the area of 
beer consumption and the congeniality 
of Pitt women, the performance drew 
more than a few laughs from the crowd. 
Costumes of flannel shirts and old jeans 
contributed to the “down-home” ambi­
ence.
Alpha Epsilon Pi then staged Pippin, a 
show written and first performed here at 
CMU by Scotch ’n’ Soda. Brothers and 
pledges performed a nicely-sung show, 
complete with discernible harmony and 
subtle but clean choreographic move­
ments. In the closing number, “Comer of 
the Sky,” some interesting things were 
done with lighting and the brothers’ white 
gloves, making them look almost phos­
phorescent at times.
In their first year back in Greek Sing 
after reorganizing last year, AEPi turned 
in a solid performance. “While we’re not 
in the running for any major awards, I 
think we’re definitely a potent force for 
the future,” said AEPi’s Greek Sing co­
chair and junior drama student Jeremy 
Eisen.
Next on the program was Beta Theta 
Pi’s A Musical Medley. In case you didn’t 
know, “Heart and Soul” actually has 
words, and Beta did its best to sing them. 
The high point of this performance was 
the sax solo by Sing chair and senior 
MechE major Ray Fratto.
The night before the show, Fratto was 
somewhat apprehensive about his 
house’s performance. “I just hope we can 
get a show together,” said Fratto. “I’m 
kind of disappointed that things didn’t 
come together better. But I do wish good 
luck to all of the people who are competing 
seriously.”
After the intermission, Kappa Sigma 
took the stage with a creative and hys­
terical medley of songs from Sesame 
Street, entitled/;?, the Neighborhood. The 
show included such kiddie standbys as 
“Sesame Street” and “One of These 
Things is Not Like the Others.” In the 
latter of these, two brothers playing nerds 
came onstage, followed by a clock-wearing 
Flavor Flav impersonator, who delivered 
a hilarious rap about Kappa Sig, Greek 
Sing, and Sesame Street. The entire show 
was well-received, from Oscar’s “I Hate 
Trash,” to a jazzy rendition of “Sing” by 
Yancey Arias, a sophomore drama major.
Arias, who also served as creative di­
rector of the show, felt good about his 
brothers’ act the afternoon of Sing. “I 
think it’s going really well,” said Arias. 
‘The guys are having a great time, and I 
think that’ll be the stuff to make a good
Willy Wonka and his many followers take center stage in Kappa Delta Rho’s Willy Wonka and the Chocolate Factory. KDR won 
chairman’s choice.
show.” Kappa Sig^s show was good enough 
to take second place in the fraternity 
division.
Next was Delta Upsilon, who performed 
an upbeat and impressive version of 
Oklahoma! Chair Brian Hill, a senior 
MechE major, gave a great solo perfor­
mance in his role as Curly throughout 
the act. The choral singing was also out­
standing — the harmony was both well- 
structured and well-performed.
DU’S amazing choreography must also 
be noted. Brothers performed their de­
manding dance routines with precision 
and professionalism. The set, consisting 
of a barn, a fence, and even a wagon, 
looked good enough to take on the road. 
All of this contributed to DU’s decisive 
first place win in the division.
Hill seemed happy with the perfor­
mance when questioned after the show. 
“What I think and what the judges think 
may be two different things, but whether 
we win or not, we had a great time,” said 
Hill. “We put a lot of work into it, and I 
think we put on a good show. I think it 
was something the audience enjoyed.” 
When asked about his solo singing, he 
answered, “I got lucky.”
After DU, the next competitor was Pi 
Lambda Phi with Tommy. Before the 
show, Charlie Merritt, a sophomore 
musician and PiLam’s Sing chair, said, 
“We’re not looking to win. We just want 
to go out and have fun.” Have fun they 
did, singing such tunes as “Pinball Wiz­
ard” and “Sensation.” The offstage band 
provided a solid accompaniment for the 
onstage performers, and everyone 
seemed to be having a great time.
Sigma Alpha Epsilon then transformed 
the stage into a tropical paradise with 
their performance of selections from 
Jamaica. Brothers and pledges romped 
around the stage in sea-worn clothing, 
singing, dancing, and wooing the crowd 
with their playfulness. Junior IM major 
Matt Ireland’s solo was especially 
memorable.
i nomas uocKstaoer/ larcan uontriDUiing tauui
Theta Xi brothers brandish swords in The Pirates of Penzance.
Dave Ostrowski, SAE’s Sing chair and ¦ 
a senior ECE major, had an unusual ; 
reason for choosing Jamaica, a shownot 
as well-known as Oklahoma! or Annie Get 
Your Gun. “One of my uncles was in the 
original Broadway cast [of Jamaica], so 
I saw it a lot, because he wasn’t really in i 
much else,” said Ostrowski. “That kind j 
of decided it for us.” SAE’s act took third j 
place in the fraternity category.
Theta Xi then took the stage with The 
Pirates of Penzance. The brothers cer- j 
tainly looked the part in black pants, red 
kerchiefs and sashes, and lace-up shirts | 
—they even hadrealistic-looking swords. 
The scene was also nicely choreographed, 
especially when one brother was thrown j 
across the stage and caught. And, while ] 
it was difficult to hear the soloist due to 
microphone problems, the choral sing­
ing was quite solid.
Before the show, Theta Xi Sing co- j 
chair and junior English major Tripp 
Goldsberry seemed pleased with his 
brothers’ performance. “I feel pretty 
good.... I think we did a really good job of 
pulling everything together in a week, 
said Goldsberry.
Last but not least came the surprise; j 
performance from Alpha Tau Omega. . 
Brothers stood around another brother, . 
in drag, crooning the song Top Gun re-« j 
vived, “You’ve Lost That Lovin’ Feeling, j 
The song was interrupted every so often • 
by three brothers standing apart from; 
the group telling extremely bad jokes — j 
they were so bad that they had to hold up , 
a sign saying “Pleaz laugh” in order to 
get anyone to do so. The brothers seemed i 
to be having a good time, though, and j 
their act did draw some laughs from the | 
crowd, even without the poster.
Greek Sing 1991 proved to be a playful : 
romp through the imaginations of CM J 
Greeks. The 10 acts entered in the fra- j 
ternity category, though as different as 1 
the houses that created them, were en- j 
tertaining and lots of fun, for the audi- j 
ence and participants alike.
$

---------------------------------------------------

CARNEGIE MELLON MEN'S LACROSSE CLUB
kpo kehTeG O MehGoxwo CoaadG O 5X Cehnp 5((5 N5)”
Funded by Student Senate
Mixed division provides
tough competition
By TERRI KASCH
Tartan Asst Diversions Editor
Four contestants competed in the 
mixed category of this year’s Greek Sing, 
creating tough competition for the 
number one slot. The hard hours of 
practicing showed through, at least for 
three of the four contestants.
Delta Tau Delta kicked off the show 
with the Caribbean sounds of The Little 
Mermaid. DTD Chairman and H&SS 
sophomore Christian Matyi led a sizeable 
cast of colorfully dressed students 
through the Disney hits “Kiss the Girl,” 
“Les Poissons” and the upbeat finale 
“Under the Sea.” For the first number, 
one brother playing the prince cooly lit a 
cigarette while debating whether or not 
to kiss the ever-coy mermaid. Quickly 
following, four men dressed in chefs’ 
outfits sang of their love for preparing 
seafood as the people dressed as various 
marine creatures collapsed on stage.
Finally, DTD wrapped up its perfor­
mance with a rousing rendition of “Un­
der the Sea,” a classic celebration of the 
joys of living an aquatic life. DTD got 
Greek Sing off to a solid start with its 
impressive choreography and costumes.
DTD brother Chris O’Keefe, a sopho­
more mechanical engineer, commented 
on the performance of the fraternity. 
“There were a few flaws, but overall... we 
thought we did pretty well.” O’Keefe also 
stated that the fraternity was not upset 
that they did not place in the competition. 
“We didn’t go in there to place, we went 
in there just to have a good time. We 
pretty much knew Phi Kap was going to 
win ... they spent a lot more time on it 
than we did,” he said. «
Phi Kappa Theta and Kappa Alpha 
Theta took top honors in the mixed di­
vision with their collaborative effort in 
Annie Get Your Gun. The performers were 
dressed in standard Western attire, in­
cluding checkered shirts and cowboy 
boots. The song “Anything You Can Do,
I Can Do Better” pitted the men against 
the women in a vocal match. The fra­
ternity and sorority finished with the 
memorable tune “There’s No Business 
Like Show Business.”
Theta sister Andrea Dusseau, a senior 
electrical and computer engineer, ex­
plained one reason the sorority chose to 
join forces with a fraternity this year. 
“We decided that we needed a change of 
pace, and it would be more fun.” In re­
gards to the judges’ decision, Dusseau 
not surprisingly said, “Oh, I’m happy 
with it. I think it was the right one.”
Before the show, Sigma Tau Gamma 
Chairman Charles Esther, a senior bi­
ology major, spoke for his fraternity, 
saying “We’re happy with how we’re 
performing and we’re ready for the show.” 
The fraternity went on to take second 
place for its performance of Fiddler on 
the Roof. The act began with two violin­
ists in separate spotlights playing as a 
brother dressed as a rabbi said the classic 
lines that begin the play. The women 
then sang “Matchmaker, Matchmaker.” 
Following this, the men and women 
separated and prepared a bride and 
groom during the song “Sunrise, Sunset.” 
Next, all lifted their glasses to the 
celebratory drinking song “To Life.” The 
audience broke into applause as a few 
brothers took center stage to perform 
some skillful Russian dance steps.
Sigma Nu showed up in the mixed 
category as brothers, pledges, and little 
sisters of the fraternity came out for Zoo 
Tunes II. The performers slithered onto 
the stage to sing Monty Python’s “Every 
Sperm Is Sacred.” As most of the frater­
nity members left, the mood changed 
from a comedic sing-along to a heavy 
metal concert. Four brothers remained 
onstage, blasting music to finish off the 
act.
O’Keefe seemed to speak for everyone 
in the mixed division when he said, “We 
had a good time. It was fun and we did 
what we wanted to do.”
Sophomore civil engineer Jessica Schmidt, a White Rose of Sigma Tau Gamma, reads from her list of eligible bachelors during 
the song “Matchmaker.” Sig Tau staged Fiddler on the Roof for its Greek Sing performance Friday night. Sig Tau placed secorjd 
in the mixed division.
E&&E gwF. 2D.fNP k
APRIL 5 - 7 PITTSBURGH LACROSSE SHOOTOUT
& Nv0oi5s0,u ec p0,,s18CO
*)(Rya 4 &)RRya
E( Yis, A05C0v0r Nv0oi5s0,u
EE)RRra 4E)(Rya ’lG
()RRya 4 ^)(Rya ’wG
1 4 University of Pittsburgh
E)(Rya 4 -)RRya
2 0 St. Vincents College
2y50vC Dr5v0or3
21 Alleghany College
E)(Rya 4 -)(Rya
WM 2,d A0vmiv,s ne85vraiv,
MAY 3 Washington & Jefferson
*)(Rya 4 &)RRya
5 Pittsburgh Lacrosse Club
E)(Rya 4 -)RRya
HOME GAMES are bold print
grais 0v gis30vC 2,rX08a
UNIVERSITY OF PITTSBURGH & GESLING STADIUM 
Friday 5 Saturday 8 Sunday 7
7:00pm - 9:00pm 11:00am - 5:00pm SEMI-FINALS
CHAMPIONSHIPS 
10:30am - 4:00pm
(pQinrsinDiFidDa
xVrz$TT8 T5$$0$R0
i

---------------------------------------------------

kpo kehTeG O MehGoxwo CoaadG O 5X Cehnp 5((5
Dancer Doug Elkins struts into Pittsburgh
By DAWN BROSONSKI
Tartan Contributing Editor
The Pittsburgh Dance Council 
will present the Doug Elkins 
Dance Company in its Pittsburgh 
debut on Friday and Saturday at 
the Eddy Theater at Chatham 
College.
The program consists of three 
works choreographed by Elkins, 
who will be performing himself. 
The first work, A Cerca de la 
Escuelita (Near the Little School), 
Cbmbines “salsas, merengues, and 
a thrust of West Side Story” as 
Elkins in Elkins-fashion takes 
Various dance styles and music 
by the likes of David Byrne, Cole 
Porter, and Leonard Bernstein, 
mixes it all together, and offers 
the end result on stage.
. The second piece, Elkins’ ac­
claimed Testosterone Diversions, 
stakes a humorous look at gender 
.games and role playing. The third 
piece will be The Patrooka Varia- 
r tions, which is set to excerpts from 
i Carmen and, says Elkins, mixes
— Dance Preview —
DOUG ELKINS DANCE COMPANY. w, ,Oi .XXu nOir,i5 r, DOr,Ora 
De33iCid pi5ce5arvmis ev k50Xru rvX 2r,85Xru r, M ya 1e,O v0CO,sd 
n0m!i,s r5i $E© rvX aru 1i e5Xi5iX ,O5e8CO ,Oi frvmi De8vm03 r, (^^4 
R((RV e5 y85mOrsiX 0v yi5sev r,nPXd
“traditional flamenco guitar with 
James Brown.”
Elkins is eagerly awaiting the 
Pittsburgh debut. He arrives here 
with an impressive and diverse 
list of credits, from setting works 
on the Pennsylvania Ballet, to 
collaborations with Philip Glass 
and JoAnne Akalaitis on the 
Guthries’ production of Jean 
Genet’s Screens, to collaborating 
with Mark Obenhaus on his first 
film, It Doesn’t Wait, for PBS’s 
Alive from Off Center.
Elkins graduated from SUNY 
Purchase in NY with a degree in 
visual arts and design, but he also 
studied dance there. He started 
out break dancing, and dancing 
in clubs, and his choreographing
naturally grew out of that.
“With break dancing, you’re 
performing moves that you cho­
reograph on your own. I devel­
oped a lot of club styles as well — 
I always had a knack for making 
my own phrases. Later, I worked 
with modern dance companies 
and just started making work. 
Eventually I held positions like 
second to choreographer, and it 
went from there.”
Elkins also has a background in 
martial arts, which adds a lot to 
his styles when he combines that 
with his dance training. He has 
the flair to take two seemingly 
opposing styles or musical selec­
tions and blend them successfully. 
For Elkins, it’s a way of discover­
ing a whole new form of move­
ment, which is what he thrives 
on.
“I enjoy shifting context on stage 
... to be able to move into one style 
from another and see what comes 
out of that. I start with a chosen 
field, so to speak, and I enjoy 
playing around with that.
“I’m curious for any and all 
movement forms. Whether it’s 
ballet or Irish step dancing, any 
movement is a language — a 
building block, so to speak.”
Elkins is hoping to learn how 
audiences feel about his move­
ment forms after the Pittsburgh 
performances, when he’ will par­
ticipate in Meet the Artist, a post­
performance question and answer 
session for the audience and press.
“I learn a lot from the conversa­
tion ... it’s better than just having 
me speak about the works. I’m 
curious for other people’s percep­
tions of what it is they saw. Really 
curious. I’d like to demystify what 
it is we’re doing. It’s great if the 
audience is moved and they get to
Blanche Mackey/courtesy Pittsburgh Dance Council I 
Doug Elkins shows off his unique dancing technique.
talk about it instead of them just want to let people know I’m still ; 
getting up and leaving. in the learning process, that I
“I still consider myself one don’t just show off on stage and 
learning how to make dance. I get back on the bus.”
TV networks changes easily confuse viewers
TV, from page L11.
nothing scheduled to replace Quantum 
Leap yet. For the time being, figure- 
skating specials fill the slot.
- NBC, 9 pm: Hunter tries to salvage 
Friday night for the Peacock network. So 
far, it’s not working.
ABC, 9:30 pm: Baby Talk replaces 
Going Places — a so-so show replaces a 
bad one. It can’t hurt ABC’s powerful 
Friday lineup.
CBS, 10 pm: The Trials of Rosie O’Neill 
comes back in a questionable timeslot 
after Dallas. There doesn’t seem to b£ 
much chance for its survival here.
; NBC, 10 pm: Midnight Caller returns 
after a short absence, in the hopes that a 
Hunter lead-in will help its ratings. Dark 
Shadows slinks off into the night.
¦ Saturday. CBS, 8 pm: The Flash fi­
nally moves away from Thursdays, re­
placing two cancelled sitcoms, Untie Buck 
and Lenny. It might have a chance here, 
against Amen and The Young Riders. If 
it doesn’t perform well, it’ll be gone in,, 
well, a flash.
NBC, 8:30 pm: Down Home, a sitcom 
that works well in spite of a horrible 
premise, replaced The Fanelli Boys a few 
weeks ago. Boys is done for the season.
ABC and CBS, 9 pm: Both networks 
have given up the rest of the night to 
NBC, slotting old movies in this time 
slot.
NBC, 10:30 pm: With Dear John on 
Wednesday, the search is on for a show 
that can hold on to Carol & Company’s 
audience.
Sunday. NBC, 7 pm: Sunday Best, a 
“TV show about TV,” was a neat idea 
that wasn’t given a chance. After three 
weeks of lethargic ratings, it was can­
celled and replaced by old Bloopers and 
Practical Jokes repeats.
NBC, 8 pm: Exposé moved to 8 pm and 
Real Life with Jane Pauley switched to 
8:30 pm, but NBC is still mired in fourth.
Fox, 9:30 pm: In April, a Married... with 
Children spinoff with Joseph Bologna 
premieres. If this can’t keep Married’s 
audience, nothing can.
I hope this little television tutorial has 
been helpful. Of course, it wouldn’t be 
complete without the following infor­
mation: don’t worry. Charles in Charge 
is still on at the same time. Think of it as 
an immovable island in a sea of uncer­
tainty and change, as the show that lives 
forever.
Tartan Senior Staffwriter A. Franklin 
Wheeler is a junior professional writing 
major.
R.E.M.’s $SI w. 0ofn taps 
into several new sounds
R.E.M., from page Lll
of the band’s funkiness. There aren’t 
any samples here, but it will likely get 
that R.E.M. fan off of his or her butt.
“Endgame” will certainly be pro­
cessed into elevators in some form or 
another in the near future. This tune 
will resonate in the supermarket aisles 
with that cheese-ola sound. It simply 
seems out of place and the horn solo in 
the middle just ices the cake. This is 
just a minor flaw in an otherwise 
beautiful album.
R.E.M. will likely plan a very light 
touring schedule, if at all, after the 
extensive Green tour. Also, the band
plans to release another album in about 
a year’s time.
Apparently the recording sessions 
went extremely well and everyone is 
enthusiastic about going back and 
working out more new material. The 
next one will likely be more straight­
forward and stray from any other 
R.E.M. sound.
The band that continues to avoid 
falling into the corporate formula of 
churning out hits and selling millions 
of records has evolved since its begin­
nings over 10 years ago, but ingenuity 
and expression still reign as their most 
important assets.
Apple introduces the Macintosh Classic.
Trying to stretch dollars when 
you're computer shopping doesn’t mean 
you’re willing to make sacrifices.
That’s why you should consider the new, affordable Macintosh® Classic® computer.
It has everything you need—including a monitor, keyboard, mouse, 2 megabytes of 
RAM, and a 40-megabyte hard disk. Just plug everything in and the Macintosh Classic is ready 
to run, because the system software Ls already installed! And, thanks to the Macintosh 
computer's legendary ease of use, you'll be up and running in no time.
like every Macintosh, the Classic can run thousands of available applications that all 
work in the same, consistent way—so once you’ve learned one program, you’re well on your 
way to learning them all. And this is one cheap roommate that doesn’t have trouble sharing. 
The Apple® SuperDrive—standard equipment with every Macintosh—reads from and 
writes to Macintosh, MS-DOS, OS/2, and Apple D floppy disks, which means you can share 
information with someone who uses a different type of computer.
See the Macintosh Classic for yourself. It'll change your mind about cheap roommates.
For more information visit
the Carnegie 
Mellon Computer 
Store
or call 268-2636
§|. The power to be your best!"
¦ Macintosh Classic computers purchased before January 1991 include system software on floppy disks, software is not installed 
C1990 Apple Computer. Inc Apple, the Apple logo, and Macintosh are registered trademarks of Apple Computer. Inc SuperDrive and "The 
power to be your best" are trademarks ol Apple Computer. Inc Classic is a registered trademark licensed to Apple Computer. Inc MS-DOS 
is a registered trademark of Microsoft Corporation OS/2 is a registered trademark of International Business Machines "Corporation
V-
1 iiG 
^ cK 
J&—
•sa#
cuve*''--ífiO
KO<3*

---------------------------------------------------

ahJ ^[ i là IMhMW
Thursday, March 21
Stranger Than Paradise
Willie and Eddie are two young con artists living 
comfortably in New York — that is, until Willie’s 16- 
year-old Hungarian cousin Eva comes to visit. John 
Lurie, who plays Willie, did the music for the film. 
Richard Edson plays Willie’s slightly dopey sidekick 
Eddie. Eszter Balint plays Eva, a teenager whose 
taste in clothing and music makes her a far cry from 
the wholesome, “Heidi” character you might expect 
from the description. With this combination, how 
could anything but a road trip to Florida come next?
Take a break from packing for the coming vacation 
and see this critically acclaimed movie, even if you 
aren’t planning a road trip for spring break.
At 6, 8:30,11
Thursday, April 4
Akira Kurosawa’s Dreams
Akira Kurosawa, the man who has never made a 
bad film, latest effort, Dreams, isn’t his best work, 
but is definitely enjoyable. The film consists of eight 
dreamlike vignettes, ranging from a nuclear disaster 
on Mount Fuji to an encounter between a world- 
weary army officer and the ghost of his slaughered 
battalion. Though not all the shorts are of equal 
caliber, the eight work well together and display 
Kurosawa’s love for cinematic grandeur.
So if you just can’t get enough of Ran or The Seven 
Samurai, then definitely check out Breams.
At 6, 8:30,11
Friday, April 5
Misery
What can you say aboutMise77 ? In case you haven’t 
heard enough about it already, it’s a gripping, sus­
penseful, creative, mysterious, and funny movie.
Of course, there’s nothing funny about author 
Paul Sheldon’s (James Caan) predicament. He’s be­
ing held captive in the middle of nowhere by his 
“number-one fan,” Annie Wilkes (Kathy Bates), who 
won’t let him go until he writes a manuscript that she 
likes. And he can’t escape, because he was seriously 
injured in a car accident. Through a series of failed 
get-away plots, Paul manages to completely anger 
his deranged, psychopathic captor, which results in 
nonstop thrills and one of the most gruesome scenes 
to hit the screen in recent memory — be prepared.
At 6, 8,10,12
Saturday, April 6
Predator 2
Although the sequel to Predator is Amie-less, 
Predator 2 is almost as good as its predecessor. This 
time, the Predator has chosen a 1995 Los Angeles 
drug war as the backdrop for his hunting expedition. 
The Predator himself is a different one from the 
original, since the old Predator nuked himself at the 
end of the first film, but does it really matter? 
Besides, all those damn Predators look alike.
Danny Glover is the saga’s new hero, playing L. A. 
cop Mike Harrigan, who naturally feels compelled to 
solve the big case. When the Predator kills off Glover’s 
partner, things really start to cook. Gary Busey plays 
the troublesome government man who wants to 
capture the Predator, and Morton Downey puts in a 
cameo as a sensationalist news reporter.
It doesn’t have Arnie, but Predator 2 is definitely 
worth your dollar.
At 6, 8,10,12
Sunday, April 7
Mickey Mouse 
Cartoon Festival
The Mickey Mouse Cartoon Festival consists of 
several cartoon shorts starring Mickey, and his pals. 
Witness Donald exploding, Goofy screwing around, 
Pluto getting into those predicaments, and Mickey 
Just being himself.
So if you want to forget about that ten-page essay, 
that four-hour piano practice, or that computer pro­
gram, come and see the magic that is Disney.
At 6, 8,10,12
% KATIE CULBERSTON, STEPHEN 
GLICKER, ALISON GREEN, JASON 
McDONALD, & MARK A. ROCES
kpo kehTeG O MehGoxwo CoaadG O 5X Cehnp 5((5NN*
TV BREAK
A summary of upcoming epi­
sodes of Carnegie Mellon’s favor­
ite TV shows.
Regular Network Programs
ANYTHING BUT LOVE. 
Wednesday at 9 pm, channel 4 
(ABC). Some editing problems 
cause Hannah and Marty’s first 
fight.
CHEERS. Thursday at 9 pm, 
channel 11 (NBC). Carla could be 
the next Miss Boston Barmaid— 
but she has to be nice to Cliff. Can 
she do it?
DOOGIE HOWSER, M.D. 
Wednesday at 9 pm, channel 4 
(ABC). McGuire’s in Mexico, try­
ing to make a difference, but no 
one takes him seriously.
THE FLASH. Thursday at 8:30 
pm, channel 2 (CBS). Not being 
shown due to the NCAA Basket­
ball Tournament.
FRESH PRINCE OF BEL- 
AIR. Monday at 8 pm, channel 11 
(NBC). Hilary’s new job depends 
on Will’s willingness to become 
Queen Latifah’s sex slave.
LA. LAW. Thursday at 10 pm, 
channelll (NBC). A murder case 
involving a gang spells lots of 
trouble for Zoey, Rosalind gets 
involved in one of Leland’s cases, 
Stuart tries to defend a tax evader, 
and Victor takes a case dealing 
with unnecessary surgery a little 
too personally.
MURPHY BROWN. Monday 
at 9 pm, channel 2 (CBS). Two 
episodes this week. Murphy and 
the gang have trouble finding good 
news.
MURPHY BROWN. Monday 
at 10:30 pm, channel 2 (CBS). 
Featherweight anchor Miller 
Redfield steals Murphy’s big in­
terview. (Repeat)
QUANTUM LEAP. Wednes­
day at 10 pm, channel 11 (NBC). 
Sam’s a male exotic dancer who 
must save a deaf dancer’s life.
THE SIMPSONS. Thursday at 
8 pm, channel 53 (Fox). Miniature
golf a la Barte: excruciating 
training prepares for the match 
of a lifetime. (Repeat)
THE WONDER YEARS. 
Wednesday at 8 pm, channel 4 
(ABC). Kevin’s cool, until his mom 
gets a job at his school.
Special Programs 
AMERICA’S FUNNIEST 
HOME VIDEOS. Monday at 9 
pm, channel 4 (ABC). A special 
repeat of the 1989 series opener. 
Starring that crazy quipster, Bob 
Saget.
COLUMBO GOES TO COL­
LEGE. Thursday at 8 pm, chan­
nel 4 (ABC). While Columbo’s 
giving a speech to college students, 
a professor is being murdered. 
(Repeat)
THE KILLING FIELDS. 
Wednesday at 8 pm, channel 53 
(Fox). Based on New York Times 
reporter Sydney Schanberg’s 
unique relationship with native 
assistant Dith Pran in 1970s war- 
torn Cambodia. Winner of three 
Oscars.
NINE. Wednesday at 10 pm, 
channel 2 (CBS). Oprah Winfrey 
hosts this special, which looks at
some of the problems facing in­
ner-city children.
THE PRINCESS BRIDE. 
Monday at 8 pm, channel 53 (Fox). 
Afun adventure infairy-tale land. 
Directed by Rob Reiner. Starring 
Cary Elwes, Mandy Patinkin, 
Chris Sarandon, Christopher 
Guest, Robin Wright, Wallace 
Shawn, Andre the Giant, Peter 
Falk, Fred Savage, Billy Crystal, 
Carol Kane, Peter Cook, Mel 
Smith, Willoughby Gray, Malcolm 
Storry, and Betsy Brantley.
RETURN OF THE JEDI. 
Monday at 8:30 pm, channel 11 
(NBC). The third, and most im­
pressive, installment in the Star 
Wars trilogy. It’s worth it just to 
see Jabba the Hut.
SOPHIE’S CHOICE. Tuesday 
at 8 pm, channel 53 (Fox). An 
Oscar-winning adaptation of 
William Styron’s novel of a young 
Southern writer who takes up 
residence in 1947 Brooklyn with 
a Polish victim of Nazi persecution 
and her intellectual Jewish boy­
friend.
TUBE TEST TWO. Monday at 
10 pm, channel 4 (ABC). A celeb­
rity-filled television trivia quiz,
hosted by Alan Thicke. With ap: 
pearances by Adam West, Mary 
Crosby, and Chad Everett.
THE WIZARD OF OZ. Tues 
day at 8 pm, channel 2 (CBS). 
Yeah, it’s on every year, but it’s 
just too cool to miss. Starring Judy 
Garland, Ray Bolger, Jack Haley, 
Bert Lahr, Margaret Hamilton, 
Frank Morgan, and Billie Burke.
Cable Programs 
BATMAN. Thursday at 6 am, 
Cinemax. The groovy 1966 ver­
sion. Starring Adam West, Burt 
Ward, Lee Meriwether, Burgess 
Meredith, and Cesar Romero. ;
MAXIMUM SMART. Monday 
through Saturday from 8 pm arCd 
6 am, Nickelodeon. Every episode 
of Get Smart in one week’s time. 
006 Days of 086.
PROFESSOR POPPER’S 
PROBLEMS. Monday at 4:30 
pm, Showtime. It seems the ven­
erable science teacher and one; of 
his students have swallowed a 
shrinking potion. Fun adventures' 
ensue. Starring Charlie Drake. .
Compiled by.
A. FRANKLIN WHEELER
Counseling and Student Development Center
Carnegie Mellon University 
Morewood Gardens - E Tower 
Phone 268-2922
Consultation 
ACOA Support Group Assessment & Referral Sexual Assult Counseling
Academic Tutoring Crisis Intervention Individual Psychotherapy 
Referrals from Health Service
Hours by Appointment 
Weekday Walk-in Crisis Hours 
After hours Emergency Service
Division of Student Affairs
Feel better 
about finding 
a physician.
When you call the Physician Referral Network, 
you get more than just the name and number of a doctor. 
You get the facts you need to make an informed decision.
Ask about a doctor's background, education, 
office hours, location, method of payment and more. 
We'll be glad to answer your questions. And if you'd like, 
we'll even help you set up your appointment.
Afterwards, we'll extend a follow-up call to find out if the 
Physician Referral Network has met your expectations.
For more information, call us at
/JJvJJJJ
The Physician Referral Network is a 
Community Service of Shadyside Hospital.
t

---------------------------------------------------

HosfATqwbIA
/N
kAI‘
Admission for all DH 2210 films is $1 for 
students with ID, $2'otherwise. Admission 
to all Pittsburgh Playhouse films is $3, 
unless otherwise stated.
Cyrano de Bergerac will play at the 
Pittsburgh Playhouse tonight through 
March 31 at 7:30 pm. A second showing 
will be at 10 pm Fridays and Saturdays. 
Admission is $4.
Stranger Than Paradise will play in DH 
2210 Thursday at 6, 8, and 10 pm.
Akira Kurosaways Dreams will play in 
DH 2210 April 4 at 6, 8:30, and 11 pm.
Misery will play in DH 2210 April 5 at 6, 8, 
10 and midnight.
Predator II will play in DH 2210 April 6 
at 6, 8,10 and midnight.
A Mickey Mouse cartoon festival will 
play in DH 2210 April 7 at 6, 8,10, and 
midnight.
dwIoDnA
able to cook for themselves. Help is needed 
in the kitchen and “on the road” at various 
times of the day. For more information or 
to sign up, contact Tony or Josie at 687- 
0830.
A conference on Exploring Opportuni­
ties in Foreign Markets will begin April 
3 at the Holiday Inn in Oakland. Cost is 
$25. For more information call 648-1544.
Seminars for the City of Pittsburgh 
Marathon have begun. The schedule 
continues with "Aids for Improving Run­
ning Performance" at 6:30 pm April 12 at 
the Monroeville Palace Hotel. For more 
information call 647-RUNN.
Soundings is a new biweekly radio series 
featuring interviews, ideas, events, and 
personalities of the campus and urbanS
For more information contact Kevin 
Goldsmith, general manager, WRCT, at 
621-WRCT or by email: 
WRCT@andrew.cmu.edu
communities. The programs will air ever 
other Sunday at 8 pm on WRCT, 88.3 Fi
©1990 Twentieth Century Fox
Predator 2, starring Danny Glover, Maria Conchita Alonso and Ruben Blades will play 
in DH 2210 April 6 at 6, 8,10 and midnight.
The Lesbian and Bisexual Women’s 
Group will meet at the CMU Women’s 
Center Mondays at 7 pm.
Alvin P. Brannick, CMU senior vice 
president for legal affairs, will have an 
open office hour each Tuesday from 2-3 pm 
in Warner Hall 605 for students with legal 
problems. Call x3708 to make an appoint­
ment.
An international coffee hour will be 
held tomorrow from 4:45-6 pm in the 
Faculty Lounge in Skibo.
The Carnegie Tech Radio Club will 
meet tomorrow at 7 pm in Hamerschlag 
401. Call 683-7586 for more information.
Cindy Goodman-Leib, assistant director 
of B’nai B’rith Hillel, will be in Kiltie Court 
at noon Tuesday.
Rachel Stock, program assistant for B’nai 
B’rith Hillel, will have office hours Tues­
days from 4—6 pm at Hillel.
A poetry reading centered around the 
themes of peace will take place Wednesday 
at 8 pm at Hemingways. Call 661-4284 for 
more information.
Carnegie Mellon Ballroom Dance Club
will have meetings Wednesdays from 7-11 
pm in the Mellon Institute Conference 
Room. Singles and couples at all experience 
levels are welcome. For more information 
contact Aki Ohshima at x7116.
A Poetry and Fiction Workshop is held 
every Wednesday at 8 pm in the Cathedral 
of Learning, room 204. Bring in finished 
works or write at the site.
An X workshop will be held Wednesday 
in Baker Hall 140 from 5-6:30 pm. For 
more information or to sign up, call x5720.
An Emacs workshop will be held April 3 
in Baker Hall 140 from 5-6:30 pm. For 
more information or to sign up, call x5720.
The Explorers’ Club weekly meetings 
will be held every Thursday at 6:30 pm in 
Porter Hall 225C. For more information 
call Lee Janson at x3457.
A dance will be held Thursday at 8 pm at 
Rodef Shalom. Sponsored by Rodef Shalom 
and B’nai B’rith Hillel.
The Carnegie Mellon Riding Club
meets every Thursday at 6 pm in Porter 
Hall 226C. Come talk to fellow motorcycle 
enthusiasts about racing, mechanics, and 
rides!
cmuOUT holds business meetings in 
Baker Hall 254C Fridays at 7:30 pm. 
Impromptu social activities often follow.
A bus to Hartford, Connecticut will be 
/Offering $72 round trip tickets for Friday 
through March 29. For more information 
call Jacqueline at x4388.
Carnegie Mellon Students for Peace
meets every Sunday at 7 pm in Baker Hall 
225C. All new members and views are 
welcome — please join us. For more 
information call x5501.
Volunteers are needed at Lawrenceville- 
Bloomfield “Meals on Wheels,” located at 
St. Augustine’s church on 37th Street and 
Butler. Meals are prepared every day of the 
year for people on special diets who are not
Foreign language tables will be held in 
conjunction with the Modern Languages 
Department. All tables take place in the 
Morewood cafeteria unless otherwise 
stated. Tuesdays: II Circolo Italiano 
(Italian), 5-6 pm. Wednesdays: La Table 
Française (French) beginning at 11:30 am 
and Bentoo Lunch o nihongo de (Japanese) 
at noon in Baker Hall 228A. Please order 
lunch for the Japanese table on Tuesday in 
Baker Hall 160. Cost is $3. Thursdays: 
Deutscher Stammtisch (German) beginning 
at 11:30 am. Fridays: La Mesa Española 
(Spanish) and Russkaya Besedà (Russian) 
beginning at 11:30 am.
WPXI-TV/Channel 11 Volunteer 
Connection matches volunteers with 
families. If you have a service to donate to 
local families with Operation Desert Storm 
members, call the Channel 11 Volunteer 
Connection at 394-5380. Sponsored by the 
United Way Volunteer Action Center, Bell 
of Pennsylvania, and WPXI-TV.
weekday mass at 12:30 pm. Call 681-3181 
for more information.
The Roman Catholic Oratory celebrates 
mass daily at 12:30 pm in Skibo 39 Monday 
through Friday. Weekend masses are 
celebrated at 7 pm Saturday and 10:30 am 
Sunday in the Graduate School of Indus­
trial Administration auditorium: For more 
information call the Roman Catholic 
Oratory at 681-3181.
Episcopalians worship at the Church of 
the Ascension Sundays at 8:30 and 11 am. 
A class for college students is held at 9:45 
am. Services are also held Wednesdays at 7 
am. For more information call Hank Suhr 
at 621-4361.
Prayer at the Close of the Day will be 
sung Sunday at 9:30 pm in Heinz Chapel 
by the Pittsburgh Compline Choir. For 
more information call 682-6886.
Wes Jones, an architect from San Fran­
cisco, will speak Wednesday at 7:30 pm in 
Alumni Concert Hall.
Elaine A. King, an art historian and 
curator, will speak April 3 at 5:30 in 
Margaret Morrison A14.
“Why Don't Miracles Happen Any­
more?” will be presented by Dr. Ron 
Brauner at the B’nai B’rith Hillel bagel 
brunch April 7 at 12:30 pm at Hillel. Call 
621-8875 for more information.
0FnaInb
xnDISbnA
znsopowi
Spend Shabbat dinner at Hillel with 
guest speaker Moshe Erez, Friday. Happy 
half-hour starts at 5:30 pm, services at 6 
and dinner at 6:45. For reservations or 
more information call 621-8875.
A Passover Seder will be hosted by B’nai 
B’rith Hillel March 29 at 7 pm. For 
reservations call 621-8875.
Spend Shabbat and Passover dinner at 
Hillel April 5. Happy half-hour starts at 6 
pm, services at 6:30 and dinner at 7:15. call 
621-8875 for reservations or questions.
The Roman Catholic Oratory invites 
Catholics to pray the Stations of the Cross 
together at noon of the Fridays of Lent in 
Skibo 39. It will be followed by the usual
“Searching for the Giants’ Shoulders,”
a Last Lecture Series presentation, will 
take place in the Adamson Wing at 4:30 
this afternoon.
“Can America Compete in Global 
Market”will be presented tomorrow at 
5:30 pm in the GSIA main auditorium. Call 
x2268 for more information.
“Sanctions, Military Action and 
Negotiations in the Middle East Crisis” 
will be presented by Christina Michelmore 
tomorrow at 4:30 in Breed Hall.
“Celtic Languages and Linguistics” 
will be presented by the Celtic History 
Society Wednesday at 5 pm in Doherty 
Hall 3300.
“Summit and Systems: Human and 
Robotic Adventures in the Great 
Outdoors,” a Soup & Substance presenta­
tion, will take place Wednesday from 12-1 
pm in the Wherrett Room.
My Children! My Africa! by Athol 
Fugard, is playing through March 31 at 
the Pittsburgh Public Theater. Tickets are 
$10 with student ID. For more information 
call 321-9800.
The Road to Mecca, by Athol Fugard, 
will play Wednesday through April 21 at 
the City Theater. Showtime is 8 pm 
Tuesdays through Fridays, 6 and 9 pm 
Saturdays and 2 pm Sundays. For more 
information call Caty Dewalt at 624-6469.
Poe: A Theatrical Vision will be pre­
sented by the Nathan Group at the 
Birmingham Lofts Friday and Saturday 
and March 29. Curtain is 8 pm with an 
additional showing Saturdays at 11pm. 
Tickets are $5. For more information call 
731-7375.
Reality Optional, at the Artery, will have 
shows Saturday, April 6 and 20, and May 4 
and 18. Curtain time is 7:30 pm.
Company will be performed at the 
Winchester Thurston School at 8 pm April 
4, 5 and 6. Admission is $10. Call x2383 for 
more information.
The Pirates of Penzance will be per­
formed April 6, 7,12 and 13 at the Com­
munity College of Allegheny South 
Campus. Curtain is 8 pm. For more 
information call 469-6220.
The women’s tennis team will compete 
against the University of Pittsburgh April 4 
at 4 pm.
The men’s tennis team will compete 
against the University of Pittsburgh at 
home April 2 at 4 pm.
The men’s outdoor track team will 
compete at the Youngstown State Invita­
tional Saturday, the Slippery Rock Univer­
sity of Pennsylvania Invitational March 30, 
and the Indiana University of Pennsylvania 
Invitational April 6. The team will compete 
at home against Washington and Jefferson 
College and Bethany College April 3.
The women’s outdoor track team will 
compete at the Youngstown state Invita­
tional Saturday, the University of Pitts­
burgh Panther Relays March 30, and the 
Indiana University of Pennsylvania Invita­
tional April 6.
The golf team will compete at the Speidel 
Invitational April 3 and the Hiram College 
Invitational April 6.
rSsISbn
Francisco Fernandez will perform on the 
double bass tomorrow at 8 pm in the 
Mellon Institute Auditorium.
The Convocation: Career Seminar 
Series presents Patricia Prattis Jennings 
Thursday at 12:30 pm in Alumni Concert 
Hall.
Matthew Keys will perform on the 
trumpet Friday at 8 pm in Alumni Concert 
Hall.
A.T.S. will perform at the Artery Friday at 
10 pm.
The Institute for Gounod Studies
presents its annual symposium Saturday 
and Sunday from 9 am to 5 pm. Admission 
is $5. Call x2383 for more information.
Cuareteto Latinoamericano presents 
works by Villa-Lobos, Turina, and Crumb 
April 2 at 8 pm in the Mellon Institute 
Auditorium. Admission is $10.
The Carnegie Mellon Philharmonic 
Orchestra will perform Beethoven’s 
Symphony #5, Mozart’s D Major Flute 
Concerto, and other works April 7 at 8 pm 
in Carnegie Music Hall. Admission is $5.
The artwork of Jetelova, Walther and 
Matakos, Czechoslovakian, German, and 
Greek artists, will be on exhibit through 
April 28 at the Carnegie Mellon Art 
Gallery. Call x3110 for more information.
RBW at K,
Awakening to the call of birds 
I wipe from my eyes the morning 
dew. As I watch the blazing 
sunrise my heart becomes tight 
For all I yearn for is you.
— mbm
MORALITY:
Do CMU students have any on 
weekends? 2nd meeting tonight.
THE BAD INFLUENCE
Philosopher’s ?’s:
Why do roommates go after guys 
with the same name?
Attention Women:
There is no need to fear the 
Skinhead, he’s using an unloaded 
gun.
You Stupid MORON!!!
You knew I would learn one way 
or another sometime!!!! Let the 
Vox Populi Wars begin!!
How much GJ**** would a 
H****** F*** if a H***** would
p*** c**** ? 0oops! None> J
guess.
Snatch a snuggle, catch a cuddle. 
A pretty girl’s place is to be­
fuddle.
KSA ain’t Hard From theYard
Hope Johnny got his rest....
“This will all soon be but a happy 
memory...”
— The Princess Bride
Kaor!
Why am I wiping the board? 
(Novice Mailman in 85-211)
Well, honey, it’s late 
And I know it’s not fate 
That keeps me from where I 
belong...
I hate my homework,
I’m such a jerk
For blowing it off for so long.
I should be in bed!
I’m such a rockhead!
My life is an odd sort of song.
K —, I miss you.
I just want to kiss you.
I know in my soul it’s not wrong. 
We can’t be apart;
We’re entwined at the heart.
My love will forever be strong.
Hey Vince:
That was great! Now let’s talk 
about the Waffen SS, The Repub­
lican Guard, concentration camps, 
and the systematic execution of 
random civilians in the streets of 
Kuwait City. Mayhap dead Iraqis 
have something to do with 
Israelis' corpses huddled under­
neath al-Hussein missile frag­
ments. Are you protesting the 
Patriot missile program too?
Your moderator
“‘It’s a catastrophe. It’s 
undescribable. The Iraqis are 
bastards.’”
— Fahd el Muhammed, a 
resident of Kuwait City, quoted by 
the Associated Press
Oh look Student Union: An actual 
verifiable source! An alien 
concept, isn’t it?
— A journalist
hey bri,
Mooooooooo Yeeeeaaahhh!!!
Walt
Rainer—
Still can’t guess who the Anti- 
Aryans are? That’s OK, I’m 
someone you’d never expect.
Anti-Aryan 1,2,&3 
P.S. Why didn’t Germany do its 
part in the war?
Hey CLUELESS, the birthday 
wedge is coming ... soon....
Kissssssty,
I love you dearly. I’m sorry that 
I’m a meanie sometimes.
— u no hoo
What does Grain, 151 rum, 
Absolut Vodka, Triple Sec, JD, 
Kahlua, Orange Juice and a few 
beers equal?
I wish I could tell you but I can’t 
remember! ‘
— E. Clear
Excuse me.
Yeah, you with the black hair. 
You know you’re all I ever think 
about. Give me a call. You know 
my number.
Happy First Day of Spring, 
Stasia.
They say it was a magical force 
that brought everything to life on 
that first first day of spring. It 
was about 19 years ago now, 
wasn’t it?
By the way, did we get published 
yet?
“Mike, let’s go to the zoo some­
time and touch monkeys.”
“Oh great. We HAD to hook up 
with a tight-ass Paladin, didn’t 
we? Just my god damn luck.“
Yinz know who
Why buy the cow when you can 
the milk for free.
t nePg/Sapi
Niffer,
Happy 20th Birthday!!“Uh oh. I feel an Aikido roll 
Rasputin coming on...”
To the goddess who wore the 
white CATS shirt on Tuesday... 
ever since I saw you on the 
stairwell in Skibo, I’ve been 
paralyzed by your beauty. I’m 
having trouble making it to 
classes. Could we get together 
sometime and work on this 
problem? Just wear the shirt... 
I’ll find you...
— Cupid’s Prey
Jeff, Bo, Joe, Brian, Lisa C.,
Paul, Russ, Amy, Matt, John S., 
John L., Lisa H., Eric L., Dan K, 
John D., Courtney, Brenda, Rob: 
Thanks for the stripper,
Greg and Scott 
P.S. Pictures, what pictures!?
What the hell are “ongstrumz”?
A: “So why am I not walking with 
woman?”
S: “Because you just DUMPED 
her!”
Tony Martin can suck my big toe!
Coke: Class? So what is it? 
15-200 (Silence...)
Coke: Yup, you are right. Obvi­
ously, it’s log2N !!
15-200 (Silence...)
Vox Populi was created 
to be a fun outlet for 
stress.
Please keep it clean and 
good natured.
