Volume 85, Issue 7
THE TARTAN
Carnegie Mellon University. Pittsburgh. Pennsylvania22 October 1990
Display evokes harassment
By ALLISON DURAZZI
Tartan Assistant Features Editor
National Coming Out Day, the 
¿ay designed for bringing gay, 
lesbian, and bisexual people face to 
face with their homosexuality, also 
brought out numerous examples of 
'anti-gay sentiment and harass­
ment.
The Housing Office’s display in 
front of Highlander Cafe was a 
prime location for anti-gay state­
ments. The display featured articles
related to gay issues and papers for 
students to attach their comments. 
What ensued was a rash of heated 
dialogue, both for and against gay 
rights.
For the most part, there were as 
many pro-gay rights comments as 
anti-gay rights comments. One 
person wrote, “Being gay is a sin.” 
On the same paper, another person 
wrote, “Being stupid when you have 
the capacity to be enlightened is a 
sin.”
Assistant Director of Housing and
Residential Life Amy Ginther said 
that although this is the first year 
the Housing Office has put up a 
display like this, the responses 
were exactly what Housing 
wanted. “Although some of the 
comments were hurtful, I think,” 
she said, “the education occurred 
when those people who wrote those 
comments went back to read the 
responses.”
Dean of Student Affairs Michael 
Murphy also holds the view that by 
allowing discussion no matter what
the view, education will follow. 
“College is the first time that 
most people are exposed to 
people of a different sexual 
orientation. By others express­
ing feelings about their sexual­
ity,” he said, “hopefully the 
campus can learn to be more 
accepting of the differences.” 
Last Sunday morning at 
approximately 2:30 am, two 
men were seen painting the 
Fence with “cmuOUT get out.” 
Please see HARASSMENT, page LI
ssues
Senate mandates 
Fee referendum
budgets this year.
However, if the referendum passes, it could 
be reflected on the spring tuition bills. “If we 
can get this thing passed in October, we can 
take it before the [Board of] Trustees at their 
November meeting and hopefully have it 
approved then. This would give us more 
money for spring,” Neighbor said.
“Right now, a lot of student organizations 
are being limited,” said Sateria Venable, 
chair of Senate’s Funding and Recognition 
committee.
“The amount of money that Senate has to 
give to student organizations is very small 
right now,” said Neighbor. “This increase in 
the fee would go to that fund to enable us to 
provide more money to student organiza­
tions.” Without it, Senate “will face severe 
financial problems when the spring semes­
ter rolls around,” he said.
Student Government president Kishore 
Rao joined Senate in endorsing the referen- 
Please see FEE, page 7Students bring new 
fraternity to campus
By MATT ADLER
Tartan Staffwriter
Next March may see the addition of 
Omega Psi Phi to Carnegie Mellon’s list 
of fraternities.
Omega Psi Phi, with roughly 80,000 
members, is one of three national black 
fraternities. Representatives from Iota 
Phi, a graduate chapter of the fraternity 
at the University of Pittsburgh, visited 
Carnegie Mellon last Thursday to conduct 
an information session about starting an 
Omega Psi Phi chapter here.
The Representatives, Tom Love, Randy 
Brockington, Jesse Fife, Dr. Herman 
Jones, and the CarnegieMellon Assistant 
Vice President for Enrollment, Sanford 
Rivers, spoke and answered student 
questions at the meeting.
Dr. Jones stressed that, “forming an 
Omega Psi Phi chapter here is a serious 
undertaking.”
Students interested will form a special 
interest group until March. These stu­
dents, according to Rivers, “will be doing 
a variety of activities such as fund-raising 
and community services on and off cam­
pus.” Students will also be educated about 
chapter history, rules of orders, and 
general fraternity information to prepare 
for the application process. Members of
the group will also have time to insure that 
their grades meet the required minimum 2.5 
QPA.
The earliest date students may begin the 
selection and intake program, formerly called 
the pledge process, will be next March. Any 
eligible student may apply to the fraternity 
for membership at that time. The Iota Phi 
Dean of Pledges, Dr. Jones, will run the se­
lection committee for the people interested in 
joining at Carnegie Mellon.
In order for the interest group to form a 
chapter, there must be a minimum of seven 
people seeking entrance into the fraternity in 
March. Rivers will act as an advisor to the 
students each step of the way.
Applicants will need to write an essay about 
their reasons for wishing to join Omega Psi 
Phi, and will also need the recommendation of 
a brother. Furthermore, each applicant will 
appear before a “review board” where he will 
be tested on his knowledge of certain materials.
The idea for bringing Omega Psi Phi to 
Carnegie Mellon came when students inter­
ested in forming a black fraternity met with 
Rivers, who then invited Omega Psi Phi to 
come in and hold the information session. 
According to Rivers, an Omega Psi Phi chapter 
at Carnegie Mellon will be good for black 
students who “are looking for some identity.”
Junior Karl Brower is a math major and a 
Please see FRATERNITY, page 7
Carnegie Mellon alumnus Tom 
Savin! plays with some of his 
monster pals. Savini makes his 
directing debut in The Night of 
the Living Dead, a remake of 
the original George Romero 
1968 classic which has recently 
been released. See page L13.
By DAVID LADEK
Tartan Assistant News Editor
The student body will vote on a refer­
endum to raise the Activities Fee to $50 a 
semester next Tuesday, Student Senate 
voted last week.
Along with the referendum, Senate 
passed a resolution showing “strong sup­
port for the fee increase,” according to 
Senate Chair Chris Neighbor.
The Activities Feeis a$40 charge applied 
each semester to each student’s bill. Funds 
from the fee are controlled by Student 
Senate and go to fund many student orga­
nizations, including WRCT, the Activities 
Board, the crew team, and The Tartan.
If the referendum fails, Senators say 
they will be forced to lower the amount of 
funding that each student group gets in 
order to fund all organizations. This new 
cut would be in addition to the 14 percent 
that has already been cut from most group’s
_ _ ignauus oasmita/ lanari ruoto oiau managerAbracapocus!
Freshman MCS student Mandi Eaton works with magician Stuart MacDonald in a magic show entitled “The Magic 
of Stuart and Lori." The show, sponsored by AB Coffeehouse, was held Friday at 8 pm in the Ballroom.
•The campus sounds out its 
voices on gay rights and 
Cliffe.
See pages 8 and 9.
•Carnegie Mellon football 
goes 7-0 after breezing past 
the College of Wooster.
See page 13.
•The Tartan examines gay 
issues on campus.
See page LI.
•Pittsburgh honors former 
Mayor Richard Caliguiri 
posthumously.
See page L2.
Student wins Broadway role
By TERRI KASCH
Tartan Asst. Diversions Editor
Carnegie Mellon drama major 
W. Ellis Porter has taken the first 
step to making one of his biggest 
dreams come true. Last week he 
learned that he had won the role 
of an ensemble member in the 
Broadway production of the Lon­
don sensation Miss Saigon.
“The Broadway thing, winning 
the Tony, has always been a dream 
of mine,” Porter says. However, 
as a native of Pittsburgh, a part 
on Broadway initially seemed to 
be little more than a fantasy. “For
D.A. Henderson/Tartan Darkroom Manager 
W. Ellis Porter is off to Broadway.
a while it [performing] kept me 
off the streets, then it became 
more real.”
Porter first heard about the 
opportunity for this part from an 
advertisement in Backstage: 
magazine. “It asked for minorities 
that could sing high A’s,” Porter 
recalls. “I have a very high voice 
and an A is no problem for me.” 
Since this was an open audition, 
the advertisement drew about 500 
responses, giving each candidate 
little time to show their talents. 
‘They had us sing eight bars of a 
song. Eight bars!” Porter remem­
bers incredulously. Still, with only 
a few seconds of singing, Porter 
managed to distinguish himself 
Please see PORTER, page L17
Business Week ranks CMU #9
ìy NICOLE BROCKMANN
tartan News Editor
Carnegie Mellon has been ranked 
nnth in the nation for its business 
school, according to a recent survey 
>y BusinessWeek, which will appear 
in the October 29 issue of the maga­
gne. This ranking represents a rise 
rom the University’s ranking of 13th 
in the nation in 1988.
“Recruiters praise analytic skills of 
Fads,” stated the article in which the 
ankings appeared. Recruiters also
“GSIA has always been a top business 
school. That’s really what it says, no matter 
what the number is.”
— Don Hale,
______Vice President for University Relations
rated it as second only to Purdue in The rankings listed the average 
operations. “The first year is grueling,” starting pay of a Carnegie Mellon 
they noted. Please see RANKING, page 7
Inside
Classifieds...........................20
Comics.................................L8
diversions........................LI 3
Features..............................LI
Forum.............. 8
sPorts ..................................13
.University Calendar.......L20
voxPopuli.........................L20

---------------------------------------------------

2The Tartan • Carnegie Mellon • 22 October 1990
THIS JUST IN...
Still in business: Stopgap bill averts U.S. shutdownU.S. asks 
UM to 
condemn 
Hussein
NEW YORK (AP) — The 
U.S. Thursday pushed for the 
swift passage of a new Secu­
rity Council resolution con­
demning Iraq’s human rights 
violations in Kuwait and de­
manding the release of all 
‘hostages held by Baghdad.
' ‘It’s one we hope will pass 
quickly,” a State Department 
official said on condition of 
.anonymity. However, no for­
mal council meeting, or even 
private consultations of the 
whole council, have been 
scheduled.
A text of the working docu­
ment obtained by the Associ­
ated Press threatens Baghdad 
with unspecified “further en­
forcement measures” under 
Chapter Seven of the U.N. 
Charter if it doesn’t obey this 
resolution. Chapter Seven 
allows collective use of mili­
tary force.
The working text of the 
resolution “demands that Iraq 
immediately cease and desist 
from deporting Kuwaiti na­
tionals, taking third state 
nationals hostage, murder­
ing, mistreating and oppress­
ing Kuwaiti and third state 
nationals.”
The five permanent Secu- 
—rity Council members have 
^reached broad agreement on 
¦-'the resolution, which also lays 
£jhe groundwork for a system 
of compensation. Under the 
measure, Iraq would pay for 
damages stemming from its 
August 2 invasion of Kuwait, 
diplomats said. 
r In private talks, the five 
permanent Security Council 
members dropped plans to try 
Saddam Hussein for war 
crimes. U.S. officials fear that 
such plans would spur simi­
lar demands from Arabs to 
hold Israeli leaders personally 
responsible for deaths of Pal­
estinians in the occupied ter­
ritories.
Reports courtesy 
Dow Jones, Inc.
WASHINGTON (DJ) — Last 
Friday, the Senate approved a 
stopgap spending bill that would 
finance the government through 
Wednesday, clearing way for the 
measure to be signed by President 
Bush.
The bill includes an extension 
of the debt limit at its temporary 
level of $3.195 trillion through 
Wednesday.
Bush has indicated that he will 
sign the measure if Senate and 
House negotiators are making 
progress on resolving differences 
in the two versions of the budget 
reconciliation bill.
The stopgap spending bill would 
postpone across-the-board cuts 
mandated by the Gramm-
Rudman law that were to have 
taken effect October 1, the begin­
ning of the new fiscal year.
The Senate approved a budget- 
cutting bill that would implement 
the bulk of the five-year $500 
billion fiscal plan adopted last 
week by Congress.
The 54—46 vote early Friday 
clears way for a conference to re­
solve differences between Senate 
and House versions of the so- 
called reconciliation bill.
The bill would cut spending and 
raise taxes by $252 billion over 
five years, leaving the balance of 
the five-year plan’s savings to be 
achieved through Pentagon cuts 
and reduced interest costs.
Criticized by many Democrats
as placing too heavy a burden on 
the middle class and poor, the bill 
includes higher taxes on beer, 
wine, tobacco and gas and deep 
cuts in Medicare benefits.
But with Senate Majority 
Leader George Mitchell (D- 
Maine), and Senate Minority 
Robert Dole (R-Kan.), working in 
tandem, the leadership fended off 
several bids to shift the bill’s tax 
burden to wealthy Americans.
Two amendments offered in 
floor action would have created a 
new top tax rate of 33 percent. 
Another would have implemented 
an 18 percent surtax on million­
aires.
Had they been successful, the 
measures would have put the
Senate bill more in line with the 
House, which backed a version of 
the bill that would create a 33 
percent rate and implement a 10 
percent surtax on millionaires.
It was an attack by Senator 
Steve Symms, however, that 
posed the greatest parliamentary 
assault on the bill. The conserva­
tive Idaho Republican wanted to 
strip out the bill’s 9-cents-a-gallon 
gasoline tax increase—a proposal 
that Mitchell and Dole said would 
jeopardize the entire package.
“Any senator who votes for this 
motion and goes back to his state 
and says anything about the fed­
eral budget deficit ought to be 
laughed out of the room and 
laughed out of the state,” Mitchell
said before Symms was defeated 
on a procedural vote.
“If we can’t make this motion,” 
he said, “we’re going to be, right­
fully, objects of ridicule.”
Significantly, the Senate ap­
proved an amendment that scales 
back the bill’s proposed increase 
in the government’s borrowing?; 
power.
The bill had provided that the. 
permanent debt limit be increased- 
to $5 trillion over five years, from ‘ 
its current level of $3.122 trillion.
But under the amendment ap-; 
proved by voice vote, the debt 
limit would only be increased to: 
$3.444 trillion, sufficient to carry’.; 
the government through most of 
fiscal 1991.
Cheney says U.S. not ready for showdown in the Gulf
LONDON (DJ)—Defense Secretary Dick 
Cheney said that before considering any 
major offensive action against Iraq, the 
U.S. must increase firepower in the Persian 
Gulf and develop more reliable command 
arrangements with friendly Arab forces.
Cheney said the Pentagon still hasn’t 
completed the basic buildup of forces and 
said, “we’re not yet ready to say (what) is 
the top number we’re going to.” There had 
been widespread speculation that the U.S. 
buildup wouldn’t go significantly beyond 
the current level of more than 200,000 
troops and nearly 2,000 planes and heli­
copters in the region.
Cheney also issued the Bush 
administration’s most pointed public 
warning yet that current arrangements to 
manage Saudi, Egyptian, Syrian and other 
Arab troops aren’t adequately “integrated” 
with the U.S. command structure. “It’s an 
area that needs to be worked on,” he ac­
knowledged. The Arab troops are eventu­
ally expected to total nearly 200,000 men.
su eStdn wiB nro aylikotn nran nroyo raC woot 
at ote nS nro uyaMU yoUt#Sy9okotn— _
— bU9: protoBgg 
v—.— .o9yonayB S# bo#otCo
Cheney’s statements, at the beginning 
of a 10-day trip to shore up opposition to 
Iraqi President Saddam Hussein among 
leaders in Britain, France and the Soviet 
Union, partly reflect continuing psycho­
logical efforts to unnerve the Iraqi leader. 
But Cheney’s refusal to specify any final 
level of ground troops in Saudi Arabia, 
lawmakers and Pentagon officials said, 
also indicates debate within the Pentagon 
and White House about the extent of the 
U.S.’s military commitment against Iraq.
Without indicating how many additional 
troops are headed for Saudi Arabia, Cheney 
said that for “the next few weeks or
months,” his main job is to enforce eco­
nomic sanctions against Baghdad and “to 
be prepared for (a possible) attack of some 
kind by Saddam Hussein.”
Before Cheney made his comments, 
House Armed Services Committee Chair­
man Les Aspin (D.-Wis.) said he under­
stood that top administration officials were 
debating whether to sendmore than 50,000 
additional troops to the Gulf. He said he 
would feel “more comfortable” with addi­
tional troops on the ground but said Cheney 
hasn’t yet decided what recommendation 
to give President Bush.
According to the latest U.S. intelligence
estimates, there is a total of about 400,000" 
Iraqi troops in Kuwait — which Iraq in­
vaded and occupied August 2 to set off the 
current crisis — and southern Iraq. 
don’t buy the argument that there has 
been an end to the Iraqi reinforcement,”,. 
Cheney said.
The Pentagon has also announced thai' 
several hundred Ml-Al tanks will be 
transferred from Europe to Saudi Arabia 
to support Operation Desert Shield.
This version of the Ml offers better 
chemical warfare protection and has a?; 
larger cannon then the earlier versions 
sent to the Persian Gulf.
The tanks are being taken from storage 
in Europe and are considered excess to 
needs because of the new conventional’ 
forces treaty being negotiated there.
In addition to the Ml transfer, the_ 
Pentagon said it is “in the final stages=of 
.approving” a previously announced sale of 
M60-A3 tanks from storage in Europe to 
Saudi Arabia, Oman and Bahrain.
Americans, Canadian win Nobel chemistry, physics prizes
Academy awards 
chemistry prize 
to Harvard prof
STOCKHOLM, Sweden (AP) — Ameri­
can Elias James Corey won the Nobel 
Prize in chemistry.
Corey, 62, a professor at Harvard Uni­
versity and a native of Methuen, Massa­
chusetts, was cited for “his development of 
the theory and methodology of organic 
synthesis,” said the Swedish Academy of 
Sciences.
Corey developed theories and methods
to produce complex biological substances 
in the test tube, the academy said.
It said his research has made it easier to 
manufacture products such as plastics and 
other artificial fibers, paints and dyes, 
pesticides and drugs.
These products “have contributed to the 
high standards of living and health and 
the longevity enjoyed ... in the Western 
world,” the academy said.
The academy awarded the $700,000 prize 
after a long discussion had delayed the 
announcement more than an hour. The 
academy never discusses its deliberations, 
so there was no explanation for the delay. 
The winners are chosen in advance and 
the voting is usually a formality.
Team of MIT, 
Stanford faculty 
bag physics prize
STOCKHOLM, Sweden (AP) — Ameri­
cans Jerome I. Friedman and Henry W. 
Kendall and Canadian Richard E. Taylor 
won the 1990 Nobel prize in physics 
Wednesday.
They were cited for their pioneering in­
vestigations concerning deep inelastic 
scattering of electrons on protons and 
bound neutrons, which have been of es­
sential importance for the development of
the quark model in particle physics, said: 
the Swedish Academy of Sciences, which' 
awards the $700,000 prize.
Friedman, 60, of Chicago, and Kendall, 
63, of Boston, Massachusetts, are physics 
professors at the Massachusetts Institute.; 
of Technology.
Taylor, 60, bominMedicine Hat, Alberta,, 
is a professor of physics at Stanford.
The prizewinners were key members in 
a research team that “found clear signs 
that there exists an inner structure in the 
protons and neutrons of the atomic, 
nucleus,” said the academy.
It said the prizewinners’ work was car-, 
ried out in the 1960s and the beginning of 
the 1970s at both MIT and Stanford.
SPRING 1991 REGISTRATION WEEK
GRADUATESSENIORSJUNIORSSOPHOMORESFRESHMEN
(EXCEPT CIT/MCS)ALL OTHERS
MONDAY 
NOVEMBER 5
MONDAY 
NOVEMBER 5
TUESDAY 
NOVEMBER 6
WEDNESDAY 
NOVEMBER 7
THURSDAY 
NOVEMBER :
FRIDAY 
NOVEMBER 1
All students (except CIT/MCS freshmen) should register during Registration Week if they wish to enroll for Spring 1991. If you won’t be returning (for reasons 
other than graduation), submit an Application for Withdrawal or Leave of Absence (marked “Spring 1991”) to the Registrar’s Office, Warner Hall 201.
All currently-enrolled students (except CIT/MCS freshmen) will first receive a Biographic Update Sheet and a letter explaining the registration process; review the Bio Update Sheet, make corrections and submit the form to
the Registrar’s Office (if there are no changes, keep the form). A Registration/Add/Drop form is enclosed in each Spring 1991 Schedule of Classes, which will be available on October 25 at the Skibo Information Desk,
outside the CFA Dean’s Office and inside.the main entrances to Baker Hall and Doherty Hall. CIT/MCS freshmen will receive separate instructions for registration from their dean’s office.
HOW TO REGISTERO Pick up a Spring 1991 Schedule of Classes with Registration/Add/Drop (RAD) form inside.
0 Plan course selections and alternatives with your advisor, and obtain your advisor’s approval on the RAD. Many advisors will extend 
office hours during Registration; contact yours for specific information. RAD forms without advisor approval will not be processed.
© Go to the departments teaching the course(s) in which you wish to register on your registration day (or after), between 9:30 AM and 4:00 PM. 
The department will enter the course(s) directly into your schedule on the Student Information System and sign approval on the RAD. 
Remember that if you are on a “wait list” for a course, you are not registered for the course; you must add the course later (if approved). 
©Return the completed, signed Registration/Add/Drop form to your department. The goldenrod copy is yours to keep.
P.S. Approximately one week after Registration Week, you will receive confirmation of your course schedule in the mail.
P.P.S. Your department may conduct a “pre-re gistration” prior to Registration Week. They’ll send you instructions if necessary.
THIS MESSAGE BROUGHT TO YOU BY THE REGISTRAR’S OFFICE!

---------------------------------------------------

The Tartan • Carnegie Mellon • 22 October 19903
Student Senate Minutes
Minutes of October 16, 1990 
I ^ Meeting called to order at 7:04 pm.
|;j Senators Present: Austin, Barnes, 
Blake, Dautermann, Dean, Gelman, 
G6lembiewski, Kaufman (late), Loomis, 
j-M'eck, Moran (late), Neighbor, 
Rubenstein, Venable, Wyatt, Zucker 
! jate).
Senators Absent: Bucholtz, Lewis, 
jchaeffer, Spivack.
Ex-Officios Present: Ginsburg, Mac 
Donald, Rao, Dean Murphy, Dean 
Witchner(late).
Student Dormitory Council — 
!6tirtney MacDonald: Dorm Storm- 
$ policy failed as revised. Negotiations 
e ensuing. There will be a meeting at a 
^ iter date. Working to fix the problems 
in the Highlander concerning lines, etc. 
B Greek Council — Otis Ginsburg: 
Ginsburg has a first place Greek Sing 
Trpphy from 1971, and can’t figure out 
whose it is. If you know who won first 
Life, Greek Sing, 1971, contact him.
Faculty Senate — David Banks:
Dean Murphy submitted the report. The 
meeting discussed faculty/student in­
teraction and residence halls and how 
they can ^>e constructed along more 
educational lines.
Student Affairs — Dean Witchner: 
No report.
At this point a question was raised 
about the hiring practices of the Uni­
versity. The subject in question being 
that if companies didn’t sign the form by 
three years from last spring, they would 
no longer be allowed to hire on campus. 
What is the hiring policy today, and 
what has happened since Senate asked 
the form to be changed? Meetings oc­
curred over the summer where the de­
cision was made to let the students choose 
amongst the companies. Students would 
be allowed to see the completed forms as 
to each company’s hiring practices and 
decide for themselves.
President — Kishore Rao: There
were 35 nominations for PSAC. Fifteen 
were eliminated and the remaining 20 
were divided into half. Ten people would 
serve on PSAC only. The remaining ten 
would serve on VP-SAC, a new commit­
tee formed by Bill Elliott and Pat Keating. 
Names of the individuals on the two SAC 
committees are available from Kishore.
A proposal for a 5th year tuition free 
program/scholarship/fellowship is being 
worked upon. Will be submitted to the 
University Education Council (U.E.C.). 
Looking into auxiliary services, and how 
to bring down the profit level at stores on 
campus. Wants a report on the Club 
Sports Issue.
Student Senate Chair — Chris 
Neighbor: The Planning Office wants 
student proctors for course evaluations. 
Petitions for empty Senate seats are be­
ing made.
At this point a question was raised 
about the University Disciplinary Com­
mittee: Is the department notified about
disciplinary actions taken against a stu­
dent? Answer: Only if it pertains to the 
department, yes, but otherwise, not re­
ally.
Campus Affairs — Bill Lewis: Will 
Talk with the Professor about the Survey. 
Question about the status of Field Hockey 
and Women’s Soccer as club or varsity 
sports will be looked into.
Public Relations - Mark Schaeffer: 
Ad in the next few issues of The Tartan 
regarding referendum. Happy Hour not 
successful. How to make it better? Per­
haps a speaker; personal invitations; fli­
ers.
Rules—DougRubenstein: Changes 
to definitions of organizations. Discussed 
reorganization of Greeks in Constitu­
tion.
New Business:
Referendum: request to raise the stu­
dent activities fee from $80 to $100 dol­
lars a year.
Student Senate Approval: Hand Vote:
15-2-0.
Discussion on how to present this to 
the students ensued.
Resolution: Student Senate Fully 
Supports and Endorses the Activities 
Fee Increase.
Student Senate Approval: Hand Vote: 
15-2-0.
General Discussion/Announce­
ments:
Discrimination Policy: In addition to 
the request to follow the policy, it will be 
known whether the company is and EEO 
Employer, and about the status of their 
hiring policy regarding sexual orienta­
tion. These are answers which don’t 
prevent some organizations from hiring 
on campus. This is not a committment to 
the policy Senate endorsed. Danny Ryan 
in the Career Center has lists of the 
companies which have filled out the form.
Meeting adjourned at 7:56 pm.
Submitted by Amy Blake
Former CMU faculty 
member wins Nobel Prize
|j|E)r. Merton Miller, one of the three recent Nobel Prize recipi­
ents for economics, is a University of Chicago professor who
his work in the late 1950’s at Carnegie Mellon’s Graduate 
Kjj100! °f Industrial Administration.
U anc* ^ro^essor Franco Modigliani worked together to
¦frel°P what is now known as the “M and M” theory of finance, 
flfter Miller and Modigliani.
Modigliani recieved a nobel in 1985, in part for his work on the 
¡¦ft and M” theory and other work with Miller.
Academic Services releases 
new EzMail program
MPfCademie Services has announced the release of EzMail 1.0, a 
replacement for VUI. On May 31,1991, VUI will become obso- 
T Pr°vides a robust and powerful interface to the
; ¦fjIrew Messages System for both PC DOS (PC-EzMail) and 
jijFfc users (EzMail for workstations). EzMail was developed by 
| ^e pecial Projects Group of Computing Systems, with input 
K?1 ^ar*ous campus representatives.
R ' lS a menu driven interface with windows that provides
S many features of the Andrew Message System. EzMail 
so' provides users access to their directories in the Andrew File 
|r ,s em, the Andrew Help System, and EzFax, a facility for 
E' faxes electronically.
I . -kzMail can be used on any DOS (version 2.2 or higher)
Carnegie Mellon in Brief
based IBM PC or PS/2 or compatible machine, with either a 
Token ring or Ethernet network connection, at least 512Kb of 
memory, and running the PC/TCP 2.03 network software. The 
PC-EzMail and PC/TCP software and related documentation is 
available for purchase at the CMU Computer Store for a minimal 
charge, as well as in all public clusters with PCs or PS/2 ma­
chines. The PC-EzMail software and documentation is also 
available as a separate package, for users who already have the 
PC/TCP 2.03 network software. Unix users (for example, if you 
use an IBM PC or a Macintsoh to connect to the Unix environ­
ment remotely) who wish to use EzMail for workstations can 
simply type ezmail at the system prompt.
For further information, see the Andrew online help document 
for EzMail and subscribe to the andrew.ms.ezmail bboard. Users 
should send any questions, problems or bug reports to 
advisor+@andrew. Academic Services will be providing EzMail 
training sessions and assistance to the campus community; look 
for announcements of these sessions in Cursor and on the 
official.computing-news bboard.
Visit the Tartan Lounge for 
free refreshments
The old Tartan Grill has become the Tartan Lounge. To 
encourage the campus community'to visit and take advantage of 
the lounge, the Division of Student Affairs and Scotland Yard 
are offering free coffee, tea, cider, and other refreshments to 
people who visit the lounge.
Students, faculty, and staff are invited to the lounge for these 
refreshments from today until Friday from 2-5pm and 7-10pm.
Student Affairs sponsors 
censorship discussion
The Division of Student Affairs is sponsoring a panel 
discussion on the topic of “Censorship in the Arts.”
The discussion will take place tomorrow from 4:30 to 6 
pm in the Skibo Wherrett Room. Panelists include Profes­
sor Thomas Kerr and Joseph Lewis and Marge Myers from 
Pittsburgh Filmmakers. All are invited to attend.
CMU kicks off $110,000 
United Way campaign
This year’s Carnegie Mellon United Way campaign kicks off 
next Monday. The goal to be collected for this year is $110,000.
Under the direction of the Honorary Chair of the campaign, 
Carnegie Mellon President Robert Mehrabian, more than 75 
Carnegie Mellon employees have volunteered to be campus 
United Way representatives. The campaign is designed to 
teach the campus community about the activities of United 
Way agencies and to ask support for this work.
pSyyo9nUSt———
In the October 8 issue of The Tartan (“Visit sparks memories 
... and creates new ones”), football player Jack O’Savage was 
incorrectly identified in a photo caption.
UEA revives 
Job Express
By RHONDA STRUMINGER
Tartan Assistant News Editor
Carnegie Mellon’s University 
Entrepreneurial Association 
(UEA) is now sponsoring a free 
student employment service to 
students, staff, and faculty.
Called Job Express, the pro­
gram will connect students with 
jobs. According to UAE president 
David MacPherson, “We [the 
UEA] are simply a connection 
service between the employer and 
the employee; we go out into the 
community and advertise Carn­
egie Mellon students to compa­
nies downtown as well as to people 
in the general area. Most of the 
jobs will be temporary — but 
hopefully, some will turn into 
permanent positions. ”
The program, under the lead­
ership of junior Rajil Kapoor, is a 
student-developed and student 
operated business.
“We act as a liaison between 
students and Pittsburgh employ­
ers — the employer groups con­
sist of residences and businesses 
within the area. This weekend 
we postered in the community,” 
said Kapoor.
“The program is generally 
starting this semester and it will 
continue for now on. For right 
now, though, we are going to em­
phasize community jobs and 
connecting students with jobs in 
the , community,” said 
MacPherson.
“We felt that there is a demand 
out there for jobs because stu­
dents are often in need of money 
and the community is always in 
need of a helping hand. We can 
fill this gap with intelligent, re­
sponsible Carnegie Mellon stu­
dents,” explained Kapoor.
Things are going well, said- 
Kapoor. “So far, we have around : 
45 to 50 student applications filled 1 
out. We are always accepting ap­
plications in Skibo room 58 and ; 
we may be accepting them out in 
front of Doherty Hall later this 
week.”
Interested students should 
simply fill out employee applica­
tion forms, which are available 
outside the UEA office, which is 
Skibo room 58. On the form, the 
student specifies jobs they are 
interested in doing. Service op­
tions vary and include jobs such 
as bartending, babysitting, tu­
toring, and dog walking. The stu­
dent marks which hours he or she 
is available and may mention any 
other skills.
“There is a big market for stu­
dent services. Tutoring is going 
to be popular and older people 
might need help with moving or 
with house painting,” said 
MacPherson.
Persons or companies inter­
ested in hiring one or more stu­
dents should call Job Express or 
fill out a similar form to request a 
service they want performed. The 
Job Express coordinators, with 
the help of a computer system, 
will connect the interested em­
ployer with a compatible student 
as soon as possible.
The concept of Job Express is 
not completely new to Carnegie 
Mellon. The previous program, 
which was run under the name of 
“Rent-a-Tech,” was very success­
ful, but died out over four years 
ago.
“With the new name and the 
updated technical ability, the 
Please see JOB, page 7
Photo courtesy University Relations
Developer K. G. Englehardt demonstrates the Pizzabot, which premiered at Fox’s Pizza Den on Federal Street Wednesday. The robot’s voice- 
cdmmand design allows handicapped and disabled people to work more efficiently and productively. The robot was quite a hit at Fox’s.CMU robot chef makes pizza
Voice-activated robot helps disabled
By NICOLE BROCKMANN
Tartan News Editor
Carnegie Mellon helped dis­
abled people make pizza last 
Wednesday when a unique voice- 
activated robot was sent to Fox’s 
Pizza Den.
Designed by researchers at the 
Center for Human Service Ro­
botics at the Carnegie Mellon 
Research Institute, the “Pizzabot” 
¡is part of a program whose goal is 
aid disabled persons in be-
coming entrepreneurs in small 
businesses.
After the robot receives a pizza 
order from the operator, it ladles 
tomato sauce onto a crust, then 
adds cheese and toppings. In the 
future, the robot may be able to 
place the pizza in the oven with a 
large spatula. Retrieving the 
pizza, checkingit to ensure that it 
meets customer specifications, 
and delivering it, though, remain 
the province of the human user.
“From a technical perspective,
most of the tasks in a pizza opera­
tion are amenable to robotic tech­
nology,” said K. G. Englehardt, 
the director of the Center for Hu­
man Service Robotics.
According to a mission state­
ment of the Robotics Assisted 
Employment Institute, which 
produced the Pizzabot, the pizza 
industry was chosen because it is 
one of the fastest growing, and 
because pizza franchises “offer a 
unique opportunity to integrate 
persons with a wide variety of
disabilities into a situation of 
competitive independence.”
The Pizzabot is a CRS robot 
with a Macintosh user interface. 
It will continue to undergo test­
ing at Pittsburgh’s Vocational 
Rehabilitation Center.
In an October 19 article in The 
Wall Street Journal, Englehardt 
estimated that the robot would 
probably sell for between $75,000 
and $100,000. The robotics cen­
ter may lease the robot for about 
$1,200 a month.

---------------------------------------------------

hThree new ways to survive college.
The Macintosh LC% !MtoœSaœi*m& um^ummänutA, •
The Macintosh Classic
With Apple’s introduction of three new 
Macintosh* computers, meeting the challenges of college 
life just got a whole lot easier. Because now, everybody 
can afford a Macintosh.
Hie wsTsriTflaiMlMfM is our most 
affordable model, yet it comes with everything you need- 
including a hard disk drive. The MIlBIWKUIfil 
combines color capabilities with affordability. And the 
EHS2M1 is perfect for students who need a 
computer with extra power and expandability
No matter which Macintosh you choose, you’ll 
have a computer that lightens your work load without
The Macintosh Usi
giving you another tough subject to learn. Every Macintosh 
computer is easy to set up and even easier to master. And 
when you’ve learned one program, you’re well on your 
way to learning them all. That’s because thousands of avail­
able programs all work in the same, consistent manner. 
You can even share information with someone who uses a 
different type of computer-thanks to Apple’s versatile 
SuperDrive^ which reads from and writes to Macintosh, 
MS-DOS, OS/2, and Apple® II floppy disks.
See the new Macintosh computers for yourself, 
and find out how surviving college just got a whole lot 
easier.
For more information visit the 
Carnegie-Mellon Computer Store 
or call 268-3111
d. The power to be your best™
C1990 Apple Computer, Inc. Apple, the Apple logo, and Macintosh are registered trademarks of Apple Computer, Inc. SuperOrive and "The power to be your best" are trademarks ol Apple Computer, Inc. Classic is a registered trademark licensed to Apple Computer, Inc.
MS-DOS is a registered trademark ol Microsoft Corporation. OS/2 is a registered trademark of International Business Machines Corporation.
The Tartan • Carnegie Mellon • 22 October 1990
CFA niches get facelift
By DAVID LADEK
Tartan Assistant News Editor
The stone carving in the niches 
of the College of Fine Arts will 
resume after a 75-year hiatus 
¦which began when the original 
'sculptors left the work in 1913, 
'thanks to the gift of Carnegie 
’Mellon alumnus Vemer Purnell.
CFA’s original architect and 
first dean, Henry Hombostel, in­
tended each of the niches to depict 
a different era of architecture and 
the arts. The partially carved 
“Renaissance” niche will be the 
first completed by the carving 
team, along with work on the 
Roman entry way alcove. The 
other niches, representing Medi­
eval, Greek, and non-Western 
*~eras, will then be completed. The 
project will probably take about 
..two years.
ir, Although the scaffolding has 
been up for weeks now, a ceremo- 
.-nial “first-strike” ceremony was 
• held on October 11 to commemo­
rate the beginning of the work.
The project is being sculpted by 
,,Cathedral Stoneworks, a New 
..York City-based company. The 
.international carving team has 
..experience from some of the 
world’s greatest landmarks, and 
most members have worked out­
side of the United States. The
shro yowUynr S# nro wiUfeUtlGC eoCUlt 
UC Ut :ooAUtl mUnr nro otoylB S# nro 
pSffolo S# cUto ,ynC— _
— NSmyB ziyloCCg 
eoat S# pc,
company’s previous projects have 
ranged from repairing stonework 
at Westminster Abbey to creating 
personalized monuments for some 
of Europe’s most notable figures.
The sculptors, directed by head 
carver Nicholas Fairplay, was se­
lected through an international 
contest run by Cathedral Stone­
works. Two English and two 
French carvers will join Fairplay, 
who is the on-site supervisor, 
along with sculptor Simon Ver­
ity.
Designs for the completions of 
the niches are being done by Car­
negie Mellon Department of Ar­
chitecture faculty members Paul 
Rosenblatt and Bruce Lindsey, 
under the coordination of profes­
sor Richard Cleary.
David Teitelbaum, president of 
Cathedral Stoneworks explained, 
“retaining Horn-bostel’s vision 
calls for absolute artistic integ­
rity. It’s an unequalled opportu­
nity to achieve excellence ... and 
[to] create a permanent tribute to 
Hombostel.”
One change has been made to 
the design for the inscription 
above the entrance to the building. 
CFA Dean Lowry Burgess sug­
gested that it be the Latin word 
creare, meaning, “to create.”
“We feel it’s both inspirational 
and appropriate for all of our stu­
dents to pass under the verb ‘to 
create,’ ” said Burgess. “The re­
birth of the building’s design is in 
keeping with the energy of the 
College of Fine Arts.”
Purnell, who died on June 5, 
1990, worked closely with CFA on 
this project for the last five years 
of his life. He graduated in 1926 
as an art major, and became a 
trustee of The Carnegie and a 
successful interior decorator in 
Pittsburgh. Pumell also super­
vised the renovation of Heinz Hall 
in the early 1970s.
Tad Dockstader/Tartan Photo Editor
Mike Schwartz serves a hot dog at the Extravaganza on the Cut which marked the end of the Alcohol 
Awareness Week sponsored by the Housing Office.Week promotes awareness
and alcohol awareness films like 
“Clean and Sober.”
Students also received button! 
and cups that read “Live and 
Learn” throughout the week. 
Several programs,’ like Monday 
night football and “Cheers,” fea­
tured the use of root beer as a 
beverage instead of alcohol.
By RHONDA STRUMINGER
Tartan Assistant News Editor
October 13 through 18 marked 
the celebration of Alcohol 
Awareness Week at Carnegie 
Mellon. The events were spon­
sored by the Housing Office. 
“Overall, I’m very pleased,” said
Teresa Campbell, Awareness 
Week coordinator. “I think the 
week went over very, very well.” 
According to Campbell, ap­
proximately 2,000 students were 
somehow affected by the week’s 
events, which included “Mock- 
tails” (mixed drinks without al­
cohol), “Drink, Drank, Drunk”,
Casey outdistances Hafer in Pennsylvania gubernatorial race
By T.S. BLASS
Tartan Staffwriter
Pennsylvania’s gu- TARTAN
“bernatorial race has NEWS
1 state Auditor General ANALYSIS 
' Barbara Hafer running against incum­
bent Governor Robert P. Casey. Notmany 
issues have stirred the political waters 
for either candidate except for the abor­
tion issue. Abortion has been the single
most divisive topic between the two run­
ners.
Party affiliation has generally been a 
fairly accurate determinant of a 
politician’s stance on abortion. Not so in 
Pennsylvania, which stands out as an 
anomaly in national elections. The 
democratic Casey has been a steadfast 
pro-lifer, while Hafer, the Republican, 
remains a pro-choice candidate. The 
distinctions have been imprinted upon
the minds of voters as a result of 
Pennsylvania’s new anti-abortion bill 
which Casey signed into law.
Whenboth candidates announced their 
intentions to ran for governor, the pre­
eminent issue was abortion. Hafer 
showed good success at bashing Gover­
nor Casey for his signature on the abor­
tion law. Pennsylvania splits about 60- 
40 in favor of abortion rights which should 
favor Hafer and. did early on. Recently,
though, aNew York Times poll has shown 
that if the two politicians were identified 
as “Hafer: pro-choice, and Casey: anti­
abortion, Hafer led her opponent 55-45.” 
If polled otherwise, Casey won 70-30 on 
the “name recognition factor.”
The disparity between these polls typi­
fies the race for governor in Pennsylva­
nia in 1990. Casey has enjoyed a rela­
tively popular term in office after his 
defeat of Republican William Scranton
III in a nasty campaign that hinged o 
the voter’s acceptance of Scranton’s at 
mitted use of drugs while in college. H 
approval has sometimes approached 70 
to 80 percent of Pennsylvania voters.
Several factors have made Casey y/ell- 
liked by voters.
First, the national mood has shifted to 
a large degree into an anti-incumbeni 
sentiment. Hafer has been in the govern- 
Please see RACE, page 6

---------------------------------------------------

The Tartan • Carnegie Mellon • 22 October 19905
Killer’s sentence angers family of victim
By LAURIE WILKISON
Tartan Staffwriter
Controversy surrounds the 
verdict in the trial of Mark Glusic, 
who was found guilty in the Sep­
tember 10,1989 slaying of a man 
in Schenley Park. The murder 
had been viewed by many, in­
cluding the gay and lesbian rights 
activist group CRY OUT!, as an 
incident of gay-bashing. Both the 
family of the victim, David 
Piergalski, and CRY OUT! pro­
tested that the verdict delivered, 
that of involuntary manslaughter, 
was too soft. Glusic’s sentencing
is set for December 11.
John Smouse, the other defen­
dant in the case, was convicted of 
third-degree murder in July and 
has been sentenced to six to twelve 
years for his part in the killing.
Family members of the victim 
criticized Glusic’s trial, saying 
that important evidence was 
withheld. They also questioned 
why no character witnesses were 
allowed to testify on Piergalski’s 
behalf while 16 testimonies were 
heard in Smouse’s trial. Bill 
Hileman, a spokesman for CRY 
OUT!, told the Pittsburgh Post 
Gazette on October 16, 1990,
“There was more sufficient evi­
dence to convict on third-degree. 
They apparently found man­
slaughter more appropriate be­
cause the victim was gay.”
Smouse testified that he and 
Glusic went to drink in an area of 
Schenley Park often frequented 
by gays. Smouse’s cousin testified 
that he and Glusic had gone there 
intending to harass gays.
According to Smouse, Piergalski 
had approached their van asking 
for a ride to a telephone because 
he was having car trouble. Once 
in the van, Piergalski made re­
peated sexual advances and
hro VU9nUk maC #Site Ut .9rotfoB 
-ay: an F268 ak nro to3n kSytUtlg 
eoae S# wfSmC nS nro roae ate to9:—
Smouse claimed to have wrestled 
briefly with him before he and 
Glusic shoved him out of the van.
Graphic pictures of Piergalski’s 
bloodied face were introduced as 
evidence by District Attorney 
Anthony Krastek. Smouse denied 
that the victim looked like the 
pictures when he was thrown from
the van. Drag marks in the dirt 
near where the body was found 
indicated that the victim had been 
dragged a short distance, but 
Smouse denied this as well.
The victim was found in 
Schenley Park at 6:30 am the 
next morning, dead of blows to 
the head and neck, according to
forensic reports and testimony 
from the county crime lab. Both 
Smouse and Glusic claimed the 
victim was alive when they left 
him by the side of the road.
Piergalski’s family was pleased 
with Smouse’s verdict, but said 
they wished there had been 
enough evidence to send him to 
prison for life.. Hileman told the 
Pittsburgh Post-Gazette on July 
19, “I would say a third-degree 
verdict is the best that could be 
hoped for under the criminal jus­
tice system, which is an inad­
equate system when the victim is 
lesbian or gay.”
Crime and Incident Report
ICMU taI CRIME V 
IheportI
10/6 MEDICAL, 1:08 
am. A Carnegie Mellon 
alumnus was riding in an
I ^.elevator with a student 
, "when the student bit the |l ~
alumnus on the shoulder.
„The student then fell down, and when he 
got up, he punched the alumnus in the
- face. The alumnus was transported to 
-- Presbyterian University Hospital.
10/7 MEDICAL, 4:10 pm. While 
L ;, playing football on the Cut, a student fell 
L, on his left leg and heard a snapping 
L ,. sound. When Campus Police arrived, the 
student was lying on the grass with an 
obvious deformity of the left leg and 
ankle area. The student’s leg was put in 
a splint and he was transported to 
Presbyterian University Hospital.
• 10/11 THEFT AND RECOVERY,
K; 12:20 am. Campus Police received a call 
p" that people were stealing chairs from the
II robotics department in Wean Hall. At 
least two persons were involved and they
[- ' were driving a brown van with brown 
stripes. An employee leaving Wean Hall 
Pu noticed that some chairs were stacked 
J; near the exit door, and observed the van 
i11 parked near the door. Upon his return 
fsome minutes later, the chairs were gone
and the van was pulling away. The ve­
hicle containingthe chairs was discovered 
parked in the driveway of Sigma Nu 
fraternity. The driver of the van said 
that he took the chairs because he was 
“just fooling around,” and refused to 
identify any other people involved. He 
was issued an internal citation.
10/10 THEFT, 10:26 am. Persons 
unknown entered an office in Porter Hall 
and removed a Macintosh SE computer, 
a keyboard, a computer lock, a mouse, 
and a phone net connector. The missing 
equipment is valued at $2,452.
10/12 SUSPICIOUS PERSON A 
Carnegie Mellon faculty member in­
formed Campus Police that an unknown 
person had entered the English depart­
ment office in Baker Hall and had deleted 
certain files on at least three computers. 
The files were deleted between August 
31 and September 28. The English de­
partment secretary and a graduate stu­
dent observed a suspicious person being 
let into the English department office on 
October 9 at about 7:15 am. The person 
was described as a white male, about 6’2” 
in height, with brown, wavy, shoulder- 
length hair, a beard and mustache, and 
wearing tinted glasses and a long coat.
10/13 ASSAULT, 2:30 am. A student 
told Campus Police that while in the 
living room of Pi Kappa Alpha frater­
nity, he was approached by three men, 
one of whom was wearing Theta Xi let­
ters, who were “making rounds,” or go­
ing from fraternity to fraternity to get 
beer. When the men were informed that 
Pika was out of beer, the situation esca­
lated and led to assault. The student 
sustained a possible broken nose and a 
swollen lip. He was transported to Pres­
byterian University Hospital for treat­
ment and said that he would be willing to 
discuss the incident further for possible 
civil action.
10/14 FIRE ALARM, 2:23 am. Cam­
pus Police responded to an alarm in 
Wean Hall. Upon investigation, it was 
found that the southeast stairwell of 
Wean Hall floors three through eight 
closest to Doherty Hall was filled with 
smoke. City fire units arrived and found 
the remains of a smoke bomb on the third 
floor. The stairwell was ventilated to 
dissipate the smoke.
10/14 THEFT, 11:37 am. A Carnegie 
Mellon faculty member reported that 
persons unknown had removed three 
hard drives and numerous software disks
from his office in Baker Hall. Two of the 
items stolen were 40-megabyte hard 
drives removed from Macintosh Ilci 
computers, and the other hard drive was 
an 80-megabyte drive removed from a 
Macintosh II computer. There were no 
signs of forced entry into the room. The 
missing equipment is valued at ap­
proximately $12,000.
10/15 THEFT, 2:49 pm. A staff mem­
ber reported that persons unknown en­
tered his office in Wean Hall and re­
moved a Sony compact disc player, a 
speaker system, and ten computer disks. 
There were no signs of forced entry.
10/15 THEFT, 2:49 pm. A visiting 
scientist reported that persons unknown 
entered his office in Wean Hall and re­
moved the computer boards, hard drive, 
and disk port from the Macintosh II 
computer owned by the robotics depart­
ment. Approximately 30 computer disks 
were also removed. There were no signs 
of forced entry. The stolen property is 
valued at approximately $5,000.
10/17 THEFT, 4:17 pm. Persons un­
known removed a student’s backpack 
from the Baker Hall bookstore. The stu­
dent had placed his baginside the wooden 
cubicle, just inside the entrance door,
while he was making a purchase. The 
bag is black with leather trim, and con­
tained a pocket calculator, a planner 
book, and a box of computer disks.
10/19 THEFT, 1:57 am. A student 
phoned Campus Police to report that 
there were two people carrying some 
furniture away from UCC toward the 
Delta Upsilon fraternity house. Campus 
Police responding officers observed a 
male individual carrying a chair from 
one room to another in the DU house. 
The man said that he was responsible for 
the theft of the chairs, but would not 
identify his partner. He said that the 
furniture was taken as a prank. When 
asked to return the furniture, he did so 
with the help of a friend. He was issued 
an internal citation for theft.
10/19 FIRE, 3:48 am. A smoke de­
tector was activated on the third floor of 
Morewood Gardens. Responding units 
found that a fire in a plastic wastebasket 
had been put out by a student. The 
hallway was full of smoke and powder 
from the fire extinguisher which had 
been used. The amount of damage is 
unknown at this time.
Compiled by 
NICOLE BROCKMANN
Attention All Students:
If you are planning to take 
computer science courses
Computer Science Preliminary 
Registration
Registration forms are available in Wean Hall 6126.
Completed forms are due in Wean 6126 
by 4:00 pm October 31, 1990 
Questions, contact Becky or Maria at ext. 3344 or 3342

---------------------------------------------------

6The Tartan • Carnegie Mellon • 22 October 1990
David Docktor/Tartan Photographer
RU486?
Dr. Suzanne Poppema, a family practitioner 
from Seattle, spoke at Mellon Institute Saturday 
about the controversial abortion pill, RU486.
Deans 
release 
report
By DAVID LADEK
Tartan Assistant News Editor
The International Committee of the 
Carnegie Mellon Dean’s Council issued 
its final report to President Robert 
Mehrabian earlier this month. The 
purpose of the committee, comprised of 
faculty and staff members from each 
college, was to “develop a, strategy to 
enhance the internationalization of 
Carnegie Mellon,” according to the re­
port.
The committee was divided into four 
task forces, each concentrating on a 
different facetintemationalization. The 
task forces focused on curricular devel­
opment, international awareness, stu­
dent and scholar services, and research 
and education partnerships.
In the report, the task forces gave 
background and recommendations on 
several areas dealing with interna­
tionalization, ranging from research 
and education partnerships to services 
and support of CMU’s foreign students.
“There is a widespread feeling on 
campus that we must internationalize 
Carnegie Mellon if we are to be suc­
cessful,” said Alfred Blumstein, dean 
of the Graduate School of Industrial 
Administration. “This report offers a 
blueprint on where we go from here.”
Perhaps the most important 
reccomendation in the report, dealing 
with implementation of the recommen­
dations, calls for the establishment of 
“an Office of International Programs, 
under the direction of an Associate 
Provost... committed to developing the 
internalization of the University.”
The report states that “the benefits of 
internationalization are not simply de­
sirable; the process ... is absolutely 
necessary if Carnegie Mellon is to be 
one of the world’s great universities.”
Xeir York 's recently completed Unric! Financial Center 
foreground), héqdqiiarters for Merrill Lynch.
Cordially invites you to a presentation on
The Public Finance Analyst Program 
The Debt & Equity Intern Program 
Wednesday, October 24, 1990 
7 p.m. 
Doherty Hall 
Room 1112
> Merrill Lynch
A tradition of trust.
Casey 
leads 
Hafer in 
election
RACE, from page 5
ment and has not been able to stir 
any ill-will in this respect.
Second, Pennsylvania’s eco­
nomy has not been as hard hit as 
that of Massachusetts or of any of 
the other northeastern states. 
Hafer has tried to focus on thè 
governor’s economic record, but 
Casey has recently been running 
advertisements showing the 
number of jobs which his admin­
istration has been bringing to the 
state.
Lastly, even though Casey is a 
Democrat, the abortion issue has 
played not a large part in trying 
to shift support to Hafer. Portions 
of Pennsylvania’s restrictive anti- ! 
abortion law have been enjoined ' 
by a federal judge, which dampens ' 
some voter intensity against re- ! 
pealing the law and has not been 
detrimental to the Casey cam- 
paign.
Michael Young, political science ! 
professor at Penn State, who has- 
been following the gubernatorial- 
race closely, remarks that “in=S 
terms of political fundamentals?5' 
[Casey] is also in a very strong,^ 
position. Taxes have not been“"' 
raised, his administration has n 
been corruption-free ... and the"'1 
state’s economy is in pretty good ' 
shape.” These factors combined- 
make for a potent incumbent.
Meanwhile, the. candidacy dfan 
Hafer has been plagued almost1 
from the beginning with a host ó'f "" 
errors and political miscalcula­
tions which have severely cripplecf 
her image as an effective admin­
istrator. Hafer has run her whole 
campaign around a pro-choice 
platform. One-issue political01 
candidates rarely muster enough 
votes to become governor.
If not to add fuel to the fire, she 
has embittered ethnic voters by'' 
calling Casey a “redneck Irishman 
from Scranton” and she has dis­
tanced herself from black voters' 
by implying Casey refused to re-^ 
move a corrections officer ori-' 
grounds that he was black.
Once popularly thought to be a 
reformer of corruption, Hafer has 
had to defend $8,000 of personal 
and campaign expenses that she 
billed to the state. Originally a 
possibly viable challenger tcf 
Casey, Hafer seems mired iif 
problems of her own causing,, 
which has been reflected in hei^ 
poor showings in the primaries:» 
and in her dropping popularity 
among voters.
“There is no doutìt that, so far; 
Hafer’s campaign has been a 
disappointment to those who 
. sought to frame the governor’s1 
race as a referendum on thé' 
abortion issue,” said Young.
Reactions from the Carnegie' 
Mellon campus community to the 
gubernatorial issues have been; 
very apathetic. Abortion stands; 
as the issue most mentioned by 
students here as interesting them 
about the current race.
Pro-choice advocates have been 
partially appeased with the 
judge’s enjoiner of the restrictive 
abortion law, while pro-life sup­
porters are confident that Casey 
will push again for a modified 
version of the law if re-elected.
Other issues seem to rank much 
lower on the list of priorities for 
students, although concern for the 
state’s economic stability has been 
rising of late. Students may not 
be happy with all of Casey’s poli­
tics, but an overwhelming ma­
jority foresee Casey spending 
another term in office.
Casey appears to be headed to 
an easy re-election win. With 
abortion as her foremost issue, 
Hafer has been unable to attract 
supporters, while Casey has run 
with great success on his record of 
action.
Unless Hafer can pull out a 
miracle upset on Election Day, 
Pennsylvania will have Robert 
Casey as its governor once again 
come November.

---------------------------------------------------

The Tartan • Carnegie Mellon • 22'October 19907 ,
Ignatius Sasmita/Tartan Photo Staff Manager
szyUtC nro hySSAC 1Sko WSmH_
Carol Mullen and Ginny Hildebrand, members of the feminist performance 
group Cross Current, sing at a rally to bring American troops home from 
the Middle East. The rally was held on Saturday at the Federal Building.
PSAC meets with Mehrabian
By RHONDA STRUMINGER
Tartan Assistant News Editor .
The new President’s Student 
Advisory Committee has been 
chosen and had its first meeting 
Tuesday with President 
Mehrabian.
Topics for the meeting included 
the quality of CMU teaching with 
an emphasis on the need for 
strong campus-wide policies, the 
needed general support for im­
proving the quality of life, and 
the retail pricing policies (which 
are supposed to show that school 
stores do not make a profit but 
break even).
“It is the responsibility of PSAC 
to inform the president of key 
student concerns and to make 
sure that the administration is 
addressing them,” said Senior 
Kishore Rao, Student Govern­
ment president. “Traditionally, 
it has been the responsibility of 
the Student Government presi­
dent to organize the PSAC, 
schedule meetings, set agendas 
and to follow up on the items 
discussed.”
New members submitted ap­
plications and were selected by 
Rao and the Dean of Student 
Affairs, Mike Murphy. The in­
put of student leaders also played
a role in the process.
Rao reorganized PSAC and it 
is now a committee of eleven, 
including himself. The new 
members are junior Heather 
Bauder, civil engineering; jun­
ior Nicole Brockmann, music; 
junior Ross Comer, math/CS; 
junior Kevin Goldsmith, math/ 
CS; senior Desiree Cooke, his­
tory; senior Raymond Fratto, 
mechanical engineering; senior 
Walter Schearer, IM; and math 
doctoral student Vincent 
Matsko.
“I heard about the old PSAC 
and it seemed that people who 
were in it before were just in it
by the mere fact that they were 
president or chair of their or­
ganizations,” said Fratto. 
“With the new system, there is 
a smaller number of people who 
really want to be on it.”
“It was not until I saw that 
the president’s emotions were 
peaked about the lack of parity 
between professors, lecturers 
and Teacher Assistants and 
the material they present, that 
I got excited about PSAC,” said 
Fratto.
“I was very happy with the 
first meeting and I believe that 
future meetings will be as pro­
ductive,” said Rao.Students explore fraternity options
Senate approves hike
FEE, from page 1
dum. “In the last couple years, there 
has been a lot of growth in student 
activity and involvement. I really 
want to see that growth and im­
provement in campus life continue,” 
he said.
Earlier this year, Senate cut the 
budgets for all funded groups by 14 
percent. “We did that because Sen- 
atedoesn’t have enough money to do 
any more right now,” said Venable. 
‘The main reason is that we have 
about $5,000 less than last year, and 
four new organizations to fund.”
“I understand the problems that 
students have with voting to raise 
the fee,” said Rao. “There is a valid 
concern that not all the money goes 
to good use. If we raise the activities 
fee, then next time more money is 
needed, it will go up again, and so on. 
It’s a vicious cycle.”
Senate ordered a similar referen­
dum to raise the Activities Fee last 
spring, but it was narrowly defeated 
)y the student body in May.
“I was against [the raise] last year,” 
¡aid WRCT General Manager Kevin 
Soldsmith, a junior, “but mostly be- 
:ause the money was going to fund 
ush. This year, I’m for it.”
“That defeat caused many of the 
problems we are in now,” said 
Venable. “The organizations see how 
that has hurt them this year, and 
don’t want it to happen again.” 
Goldsmith agreed. “You’re not go­
ing to be able to find a student orga­
nization leader who’s against it, be­
cause we all got screwed this fall,” he 
said.
Not all students favor the referen­
dum, however. Senior Terence Spies, 
a logic and computation major, ques­
tioned the motives for the referen­
dum. “It seems to be sloppy govern­
mental procedure to give back a ref­
erendum that was so recently shot 
down,” he said. “I think they ought to 
follow the results of the previous vote.” 
Spies said that he doesn’t trust 
Senate and other student groups to 
spend the money well. “There seems 
to be a lot of financial mismanage­
ment on Senate’s part and particu­
larly on the part of student organi­
zations,” he said.
Neighbor, however, defended the 
decision to repeat the referendum.
“[Senate] didn’t stress the impor­
tance of last year’s vote. Now we’re 
facing the problems that have come 
of it,” he said.
FRATERNITY, from page 5
member of Spirit. He is inter­
ested in forming an Omega Psi 
Phi chapter on campus because 
he felt “the campus was missing 
a black fraternity. Up until now, 
black students who wanted to 
pledge a black fraternity here 
had to go elsewhere to pledge; 
black students have been inter­
ested in doing this for years.
“One reason I am personally 
interested in forming it is that 
both my father and grandfather 
were members of Omega Psi Phi 
and spoke of it often. I am famil­
iar with this fraternity where as 
all of the other fraternities here 
are foreign to me,” he said.
“There are three major rea­
sons which I think explain the 
interest in the idea. The first is 
that black students want it for 
themselves point blank. Second, 
is the support the fraternities 
have for the black community, 
and the third reason is that black 
fraternities have been an his­
torical part of the college life for 
black students.”
Should the special interest 
group be granted a charter, 
Omega Psi Phi will work with 
the University to have the new 
chapter recognized as a student 
organization. The organization
PIkola -CU -rU UC a rUlr MiafUnB #yaR
noytUnB ate mSife wo a lyoan aeeUnUSt 
nS nro 9akAiC— _
— ESt pakAatag 
4yoo: aeVUCSy
will be regulated by the Univer­
sity, the International Frater­
nity Council, and the national 
fraternity board of supervisors.
Brower also said that, “As far 
as I know, there aren’t any other 
national networking organiza­
tions for black students on this 
campus aside from the Society of 
Black Engineers.”
“Having a black fraternity 
would be a good thing. I may not 
join this specific fraternity but I 
do like the campus and commu­
nity activities. If they do form a 
fraternity, I would consider join­
ing because this is something 
the campus really needs,” said 
H&SS freshman Neil Bailey.
Sophomore ECE major Ron 
Russell stated that he was, “very 
encouraged by the meeting. The 
meeting raised my attitude to­
ward forming a fraternity. The 
idea sounds good even though I
am not sure if I will join because 
I may not have the time or 
money.”
One of the aspects of Omega 
Psi Phi which attracted people 
like Brower are the community 
services in which the chapter 
would be engaged. Some local 
possibilities for community ser­
vice include SAT preparation 
classes, the community outreach 
programs, and Meals On Wheels.
“Omega Psi Phi is a high qual­
ity fraternity and would be a 
great addition to the campus,” 
said Ron Campana, assistant 
dean of Student Affairs and 
Greek advisor.
Campana stressed that an 
Omega Psi Phi chapter is not 
intended to replace any campus 
organizations.
The process of pledging for the 
fraternity has been changing re­
cently due to ongoing legal
battles over a hazing incident. 
Omega Psi Phi has re-evalu­
ated the pledge process and no 
•longer even has an official 
pledge process. Pledging has 
been replaced by the selection 
and intake process.
One reason for this change is 
to distance Omega Psi Phi from 
its reputation for grueling 
pledging periods. The repre­
sentatives at the information 
session assured .11 those in 
attendance that hazing was 
definitely a thing of the past 
for Omega Psi Phi, and that no 
one will be permitted to re­
main in the fraternity should 
they be found guilty of hazing.
There are substantial fees 
due upon submission of an ap­
plication for entering the fra­
ternity. For the first three 
years, the total dues are $490. 
This cost may vary, however. 
Once a chapter at Carnegie 
Mellon is established, mem­
bers may elect to change the 
chapter dues. Should an appli­
cant be rejected or change his 
mind, he will receive a full re­
fund of fees.
Both Campana and Rivers 
agree that discussion of a house 
for the fraternity is still pre­
mature.Business Week ranks CMU ninth
RANKING, from page 1
business graduate as $56,890.
Vice President for University 
Relations Don Hale stressed, 
though, that rankings should not 
be given undue emphasis.
‘You’ve got to be a little care­
ful when you start talking about 
rankings — you can’t talk about 
them like they’re be-alls or end- 
alls, because they’re not,” said
Hale. “GSIA has always been a 
top business school. That’s re­
ally what it says, no matter what 
the number is.”
Dennis Epple, acting dean of 
GSIA, agreed. “We monitor the 
rankings, but we’re careful not 
to exaggerate [them],” he said. 
“We are pleased to see the high 
ranking, though. We feel we have 
an outstanding program with
great students and great faculty 
research.... No single ranking 
can capture all of the aspects of 
a school.”
According to the article, the 
rankings are “premised on a 
consumer’s approach to a B- 
school education.”
The ranking process was made 
up of two segments: the corpora­
tion ranking and the graduate
ranking. With a rating of 11, 
Carnegie Mellon was not ex­
travagantly favored by corpo­
rations, but its rating of four 
showed that it was particularly 
lauded by graduates.
Northwestern University 
was listed as number one in 
the rankings, with the Uni­
versity of Pennsylvania in 
second place.Students revive Job Express
OB, from page 3
company will grow and will be much 
¡better,” commented MacPherson.
“We enhanced the old program 
with some new ideas and new man­
agement techniques. We redesigned 
the applications and reorganized 
the payment system for employers 
who want to subscribe to the pro­
gram,” said Kapoor. “Now the em­
ployer only pays $10 per semester 
if they hire a student within that
semester; the old system required 
the employer to pay even if a 
student was not hired.”
“I am currently the president 
and manage the committees 
within our company — commu­
nity advertising, campus adver­
tising, internal operations, and 
legal affairs.
“I believe that this is a great 
opportunity for students to gain 
practical business experience in
the working world. I encourage 
anyone who may be interested 
in helping run Job Express to 
come by the Job Express office,” 
said Kapoor.
RESEARCH PAPERS
18,500 to choosc from - all subjects 
Order CatalogToday with Vïsa/MC or COD
H 800-351-0222Toll Free Hot Line
In Calif. (213) 477-8226 
Or. rush $2.00 to: Research Assistance 
11322 Idaho Avc. S206-SN Los Angeles, CA 90025 
Custon research available- all levels
Pizza Outlet
190 N. Craig
Free Delivery
687-9555
(Across from 
Gulf Station)
OPEN 7 DAYS Sun-Thurs llam-lam Fri & Sat llam-2am
2 PIZZAS $5.99
2 ¡ST $7.99
No Coupon Necessary2 S. $9.99
For Limited Time Only
OUR DOUGH IS MADE FRESH DAILY
GO TO MEDICAI SCHOOL
Find out how you can have your medical school tuition, required books and 
tees paid in full—plus earn more than $700 a month while you attend school.
Clip and mail the coupon below, and we'll send you full details on the Armed 
Forces Health Professions Scholarship Program.
We'll tell you how you could qualify for a Physician's Scholarship from the 
Army, Navy or Air Force.
If selected, you'll not only beat the high cost of medical school, you'll also gain 
valuable medical experience serving on active duty 45 days each school year as 
a commissioned officer in the Reserves.
After graduation, you'll serve three years or more—depending on the Service 
you select and the level of scholarship assistance you receive—as a respected 
Armed Forces physician. You'll also get good pay, regular hours, great benefits 
and the chance to work with a variety of patients and the latest medical 
technology.
If you meet the age requirements noted below for the Service of your choice— 
and want to cut the expense of medical school—send for more information today
VEC I Send me lull details on how the Armed Forces Health Prolessions Scholarship Program B Ed« can help cut my medical school expenses I meet the age requirements noted belowII understand I am under no obligation.
• Mail this coupon to Armed Forces Scholarships, P.O Box 2865 nn 7
Huntington Station, NY 11746-2102 9UI (
Check up to three: Army Navy Air Force(21-34 years ol ago) (21-36 years ol age) (18-34 years ol age)
| Please print all information clearly and completely
I 
I
Name_Malei Female
I
I
7.nn' LTD I.. .. ¦
Phone I ,]: L..1..IL..I i I Snr. Ser.. Nn II i II ULill ¦
College—. B.rlh Date IZO CO I—I—I
" eCtim
The information you voluntarily provide will be used lor recruiting purposes only The better we can respond to your request (Authority 10USC503)
Graduation OaleL
compleie itI

---------------------------------------------------

FORUM
unGC a CnyaUlrn AySwfok
Over 200 years after Thomas
..Jefferson and 54 other colonists
" sent the Declaration of Indepen- 
dence to King George III, some 
-people haven’t gotten its simple 
' 'message.
Apparently, truths which were 
• self-evident to a group of aristo­
cratic farmers in 1776 are a little 
fuzzy to some of the nation’s most 
elite students in 1990.
Nobody seems willing to stand 
up and sign hi s or her name to this 
--opinion, but it seems many stu- 
'""dents would like to keep gays and 
, , lesbians firmly locked in the closet 
„.„through hate and intimidation.
“¦¦¦ “CMU OUT GET OUT!” read 
the Fence last Sunday.
“We’re the fuckin’ normal ma­
jority, you cocksucker!” said a Post- 
It note outside Highlander Cafe 
last week.
Make no doubt about it, the. 
tactics this “majority” is using 
. work — and they work well. They 
were used for almost 100 years 
after blacks had the full protec­
tion of the Constitution to reduce 
black voter turnout, keep schools 
segregated, and leave blacks dis­
advantaged economically. They 
"“were used to intimidate Jews in 
'"pre-war Europe. And they were 
used to keep women out of 
America’s boardrooms and in 
America’s kitchens, where some 
people would still say they belong.
How can a female student exer­
cise her unalienable right to the 
.....pursuit of happiness when she’s 
"unable to walk across the Cut
holding hands with her lesbian 
partner? How can a male student 
say he’s happy when he risks 
ostracization from his athletic 
team if he reveals he’s gay?
Get the picture, folks! As a so­
ciety, we may be technically way 
ahead of those colonial farmers 
who stood up for their rights, but 
we — supposedly the cream of the 
American crop, the leaders of to­
morrow, insert your own cliché 
here — are unable to put their 
lofty words into practice.
Consider this incident, which 
happened in The West Wing: A 
football player was asked to sign 
the National Coming Out Day pe­
tition which ran as a full-page ad 
in our last issue. He said he was 
sympathetic with the cause, but 
unable to sign the petition because 
he didn’t want his teammates to 
think he was gay.
If having people suspect you’re 
gay is that scary, think about the 
students who actually are gay. 
Try, just for a second, to put 
yourself in a gay student’s shoes.
As recent developments have 
shown, compassion and empathy 
are a little underrated at Carnegie 
Mellon. Maybe they’re not part of 
your idea of what a “macho” man 
is; if not, they should be.
The problem isn’t with CMU’s 
gay, lesbian, and bisexual stu­
dents — it’s with our straight 
students. Until we stand up for 
the rights of some of us, Carnegie 
Mellon is a poorer place for all of 
us. Take the hint.
ROTC should change or leave
The U.S. Department of Defense 
-doesn’t want gays and lesbians in 
""its programs, and as a result, the 
military discriminates againstgay 
and lesbian college students 
wishing to enter the Reserve Of- 
fleer Training Corps program.
- ¦ This discrimination against gay 
"’ students runs counter to CMU’s
policy of non-discrimination. 
What’s more, it’s appalling—and 
" it should stop.
A student wishing to enroll in a 
ROTC program must disclose his 
or her sexual orientation, and 
those that check off “homosexual” 
...are automatically ineligible.
;; When you can pin the military 
'down to justifications for its big­
otry — and believe us, that’s not 
an easy task — you’ll be offered 
„.„three rationales for the discrimi-. 
—nation.
•The military’s sexual-orienta- 
tion criterion is comparable to the 
:physical and academic standards 
enforced upon all ROTC candi­
dates, says the Pentagon. But 
clearly, weight and academic 
ability can affect combat perfor­
mance. No matter what the mili­
tary says, sexual orientation can’t.
•Gays and lesbians will affect 
the military’s ability to maintain 
¦discipline and morale, says the 
"...DoD. But that same argument
..was used to justify discrimination
against black and women soldiers 
—— surely it isn’t still valid?
•Gays are security risks, says 
,.„the military — they could be 
blackmailed. But really it’s the 
.„.policy that causes security risks.
- Without it, a gay soldier wouldn’t 
,„,risk losing his or her job because 
¦~of sexual orientation — and
therefore couldn’tbeblackmailed.
Let’s face it, the military is 
prejudiced toward gays, anditwill 
always try to “justify” its bigotry
with “arguments.” But the facts 
are clear: Current ROTC policy 
reeks of paranoia, homophobia, 
and outdated tradition.
Change will not be easy. The 
military doesn’t even want to ad­
dress its gay policy; it turns down 
every request for discussion and 
plain-out refuses to consider a 
policy change. If the generals 
aren’t going to order a change, 
Congress should do it for them.
To force such an order from 
Capitol Hill, CMU and 70 other 
universities across the country 
have joined together to oppose the 
DoD’s discrimination policy. These 
universities have done everything 
from writing letters to disbanding 
their ROTC programs.
Carnegie Mellon in particular 
has written several letters to 
President Bush, Congress, and 
other universities urging a change 
in policy. We must do more. The 
University needs to write more 
letters and begin to discuss what 
the consequences are of allowing 
this discrimination to continue on 
our campus.
For now, CMU is not planning to 
disband its ROTC program. It’s a 
rational approach, and one we 
agree with. Disbanding ROTC 
would do more harm to the stu­
dents who rely on its scholarships 
than it would to the DoD, and it 
would not force any nationwide 
changes.
But if the policy does not change 
soon, we urge the administration 
to seek funding alternatives for 
students in ROTC and then to 
eliminate the program. Changing 
the military’s stand is an admi­
rable goal, and one which Carnegie 
Mellon should continue to pur­
sue. But if we’re unable to affect 
change, we should prevent dis­
crimination on our campus.
Fence comments infringed gay rights
on
Letter to 
the Editor
Editor:
I am writing to 
express my views of 
the Fence as it ap­
peared on October 
15. I must support 
everyone’s right to express his opin­
ion, but this right comes with respon­
sibility. I am sure we are all aware of 
the prime example, yelling “fire!” in a 
crowded theater. I am disturbed by 
the lack of sensitivity and responsibil­
ity exhibited in some statements on 
the Fence because they contribute to 
the oppression of lesbians, gays, and 
other minorities including women.
Individuals must be careful when 
publicly expressing their personal 
feelings. Though some of the com­
ments on the Fence are subtly offen­
sive, they are the hygienic versions of 
shouts and calls that make it much 
harder for lesbians and gays to suc­
ceed at CMU. If you live a life without 
fear for yourself physically and with­
out increased mental anguish over 
who you are, you probably have a hard
time understanding how the Fence on 
October 15 will affect many Carnegie 
Mellon students. You cannot imagine, 
but it will happen: someone will read 
this fence and will be unable to concen­
trate on studies all day waiting for a 
group of students to think he is gay and 
beat the shit out of him for being 
different,which happened in Oakland 
recently when four males beat up one 
lesbian.
The following statement from the Fence 
is ridiculous, “Straights have rights too!!!” 
Imagine a bunch of white students 
painting the fence after Martin Luther 
King’s birthday and stating the following 
“Whites have rights too !!!” Anyone who 
truly believes that lesbiarfe and gays 
actually have the same rights and ben­
efits as straights is naive.
Lesbians and gays do not enjoy the 
same rights to privacy nor the benefits of 
domestic partnership for two examples 
of many.The most offensive is the fol­
lowing: “Little boy blew, He needed the 
money.” This is an ugly, simple-minded 
misconception. Gays engage in sex for
the many reasons anyone does. It.js 
demeaning to suggest these are purely 
pecuniary, which I believe is the 
author’s intention. Regardless -of 
whether this quote is supposed to be a 
humorous play on a child’s rhyme, 
proclaiming it in public is irrespon­
sible because this message insidiously 
supports and promotes ignorance.,of 
lesbians and gays, and in this way adds 
to their oppression.
Everyone has a right to freedom -of 
speech, but we must consider the con­
sequences of this right when publicly 
making comments that further the op­
pression of minorities and women who 
are fighting to enjoy the same benefits 
most people take for granted. It is n- 
diculous to claim everyone has the same 
rights and benefits because it has been 
documented many times that minori­
ties and women are victims of preju­
dice and subtle bigotry in this society.
Bill Chiles
Senior Research Programmer, I 
School of Computer Science
Straights retain more rights than bisexuals
Letter to 
the Editor
Editor:
“Straights have 
rights too!” This ex­
pression of igno­
rance and anti-gay 
bigotry appeared, 
with others, on the Fence last Tues­
day. Taken literally, it is obvious that 
straights do have rights, but saying 
that was not really the point of the 
sign on the Fence. The point, in so far 
as I can make one out, was to chal­
lenge the gay rights movement by 
suggesting that there might be some
conflict between the acquisition of equal 
rights by gay people and the rights of 
straight people. Or, perhaps, that gay 
people are seeking to attain rights in 
excess of those enjoyed by straight people. 
Neither point is valid, nor supported by 
any rational argument or objective evi­
dence.
Some people apparently believe that 
gay people already have the same rights 
as straight people; so, when they hear 
gay people demand rights, they infer 
that these must be additional rights be­
yond the equal rights supposedly en-
joyed by all. The fact is, gay people do 
not currently enjoy the same rights as 
straight people.
Straight couples can marry; gay 
couples cannot, even though the con­
stitutional protection of the right to 
marry derives from the right to pri­
vacy, the right to autonomy from tHe 
state, and thé familial and societal 
stability encouraged by the institution 
of marriage, all of which are equally 
applicable to gay couples as to straight 
couples. The right to marry must be 
Please see RIGHTS, page t2
Ethnic and gender resources abound at library
on
Letter to 
the Editor
Editor:
On behalf of the Li­
braries and its staff, I 
must present some 
facts which take ex­
ception to the state­
ment in the Oct. 8, 1990 The Tartan 
editorial which alleges that the library 
has added “very few new ethnic- and 
gender- related titles...” Unfortunately, 
a number of statistics contained in my 
report to the Human Relations Commis­
sion were inadvertently omitted in the 
report published by the Commission on 
October 1; a fact of which the community 
and The Tartan would not be aware.
Therefore, I am taking this opportu­
nity to report on what the Libraries have 
been doing to respond to the needs ex­
pressed by the students and faculty in 
this area. We are acquiring new books in 
this area on a routine basis and have 
purchased and catalogued more than 
300 current titles in the past two years. 
During the summer, more than 500 older 
books at a cost of $10,646.25 were or­
dered. They have now arrived and will be 
on the shelves later this fall. We have
spent over $8,000 to acquire special re­
search resources in ethnic studies as 
recommended by faculty in the College of 
Humanities and Social Sciences.
Rachael Naismith(x2536) in the Hunt 
Reference Department has been assigned 
to work with students and faculty in 
improving our collection in ethnic and 
gender studies. She has been meeting 
with students and consulted with the 
Women Studies Center when they estab­
lished their general reading collection at 
the Center. In addition, our selectors in 
all subjects, but notably in the fine arts, 
humanities, and social sciences do take 
care to select important current works 
about and related to ethnic and gender 
studies. The Libraries will continue to 
add relevant older book titles as they are 
identified in the second hand book mar­
ket. Progress will continue, but it takes 
time to build a good library.
The Libraries and its staff have a good 
track record of responding to the needs of 
its users and we will continue to respond 
to the expressed needs of the students for 
library materials in this and other areas. 
Last year 21,506 new titles in a range of
formats and more than 31,000 physical 
volumes (including journals) were add&i 
to the collections. This was the larges'- 
addition to the collections in the. history 
of the University. We are buying a wide 
range of materials. We have more than 
1,700 videorecordings, including rqore 
than 125 relating to ethnic and gerider 
studies. This Fall we established a spo­
ken word collection (489 titles) on audio- 
cassettes. Appropriate ethnic andgende: 
studies materials will be added in this 
format as well.
Library staffmembers and I are avail­
able and willing to meet with any student, 
student group, faculty or staff member, 
to discuss their needs for library mat£- 
rials. We have responded positively to 
the issue of the availability of ethnic ano 
gender resources and will continue to di 
so. We take our service mission seriousl) 
and welcome an opportunity for dialog 
with and input from our users.
Thomas J. Michalak 
Director, University Libraries 
Associate Vice President for Acs 
demic Services
Football program appreciates Kiltie Band’s support
onEditor:
Unfortunately, I am 
aware of some nega­
tive comments which 
were recently made re- 
garding the Kiltie 
Band. One remark was that “while the 
football team was good, the Kiltie Band
Letter to 
the Editor
was sick.” While I agree with the 
individual’s assessment of our football 
team, I feel this person’s evaluation of 
the Kiltie Band is off base.
On behalf of the entire football pro­
gram at Carnegie Mellon, I would like to 
take this opportunity to recognize the 
Kiltie Band members and director Paul
Gerlach for the entertaining pre-ga111* 
and halftime performances in the pa5, 
seasons and thus far this year. 
support they give to the football program 
does not go unnoticed.
Rich Lackner 
Head Football Coach

---------------------------------------------------

The Tartan • Carnegie Mellon • 22 October 19909
Cliffe preached the ultimate truth in front of the Clock
Latar lo te Ufer
Editor;
I am replying to the 
-two letters you received 
on evangelist Cliffe Letter tO 
Knectle. My first reply +h rHit r 
is to the Rev. Dr. James llie cullur 
B. Miller. One of your questions was “Who 
speaks for the Christian community?” The 
answer is “We (followers of Jesus Christ) 
all do.” Jesus gave us this command: “Go 
ye forth into all the world and preach .the 
gospel to every creature” (Mark 16:15).
- As followers of Jesus we become his
T body. Each follower of Jesus has a job to
do, working together to show the glory of
- :our Lord, using the talent the Lord has 
given us (everyone has a God-given talent 
whether or not he or she is saved). By
f fusing our talents together we try to testify 
that salvation comes through Jesus Christ 
alone and not through Mary (Jesus’ 
mother), Mohammed, or other figures in 
other religions. Jesus alone said, “I am the
; 3yay, the truth, and the life: no man cometh
unto the Father, but by me” (John 14:6). 
Religion is man’s search for God and what 
Jesus was saying is: “I am the way to God. 
I am the truth. You should believe. I am 
the life you should be living.” Jesus told his 
followers that we are a light to the world 
and salt to the earth. This means we are to 
make a difference in this earth and to 
stand up for what is right in an evil world.
You also noted “how narrow an expres­
sion of the Christian faith he (Cliffe) of­
fered.” The religious leaders in the time of 
Jesus thought the same of him, and he 
said to them: “Heaven can be entered only 
through the narrow gatel The highway to 
hell is broad, and its gate is wide enough 
for all the multitudes who choose its easy 
way. But the gateway to Life is small, and 
the road is narrow, and only a few ever find 
it” (Matthew 7:14).
I am sure some of you are thinking what 
Pontius Pilate said to Jesus when Jesus 
accused him of crimes he did not commit. 
Pilate said, “What is truth?” Jesus an­
swered, “Everyone who is of the truth 
heareth my voice” (John 18:37,38). Cliffe 
never said “Listen, I’ll show you to my 
God.” Neither did he say that everyone 
should accept Jesus just because he said 
so. Cliffe invited anyone who was there to 
read and study the Bible (word of God), 
especially the four gospels of Matthew, 
Mark, Luke, and John to get to know J esus 
for yourself and weigh the facts. Cliffe’s 
type of preaching was perfect for this 
campus, and if it led just one soul to Jesus, 
it was well worth it! Our goal as followers 
of Jesus is to tell the good news to a dark 
world, the good news being this: “For God 
so loved the world that he gave them his 
only begotten Son (Jesus), that whosoever 
believeth in him should not perish, but 
have everlasting life” (John 3:16).
There are certain truths in the Bible 
that apply to everyone on this earth, espe­
cially the followers of Jesus:
1. As it is written, there is none righ­
teous, no not one (Romans 3:10).
2. For all have sinned, and come short of 
the glory of God (Romans 3:23).
3. But God cannot commend his love 
toward us in that, while we were yet sin­
ners, Christ died for us (Romans 5:8).
4. For the wages of sin is death; but the 
gift of God is eternal life through Jesus 
Christ our Lord (Romans 6:23).
5. For whoever shall call upon the name 
of the Lord shall be saved (Romans 10:13).
As for the second letter, to “Name with­
held” all I can say is I know very well how 
foolish it sounds to those who are lost, 
when they hear that Jesus died to save 
them. But we who are saved recognize this 
message as the very power of God.
I speak for myself. Neither you nor any­
one else on this campus or on this earth will 
keep me from saying what I know to be the 
total truth that Jesus Christ is Lord! This 
is not an opinion; it is a fact!
William I. Kisner 
CMU Employee
Public preaching shares values and beliefs
Editor:
I am writing 
in response to 
the letter “No 
public preach­
ing here,
on
Lfttv to tbo Kdlur
Letter to 
the Editor
please!” [10/8]. I am not a member 
of Intervarsity or involved in their 
activity. But I am disappointed 
that The Tartan would put that 
kind of letter in print. Public 
preaching is one way of sharing 
thought and beliefs. Compare it 
to an open party which is orga­
nized by one particular ethic group 
on campus — one which has 
dances, songs, discussions etc.
The purpose of events like this 
¦is to introduce the “beauty” of the 
particular group to society. It is
an informative event. Not every­
one thinks it is beautiful. No one 
is forced to like it either.
Cliffe’s speaking two weeks ago 
was an informative event. It was 
sharing the good news that Jesus 
Christ has died and paid the 
penalty of human sin. Not every­
one would like to think that it is 
true. No one was forced by Cliffe 
to believe it either. You could lis­
ten to it, you could enjoy it, you 
could express your dislike or dis­
agreement, or you could just ig­
nore it. The attitude each of us 
has when we hear a certain kind 
of music among the variety of 
music played almost every day on 
the Cut. Is it OK if someone goes 
to the group’s party and points to
them, saying “keep your things to 
yourself’? I grant freedom to ex­
press opinion. Its execution is not 
always beneficial or constructive. 
Is public expression of an opinion 
that attack a section of our com­
munity constructive? I would like 
to urge The Tartan to be more 
sensitive in the selection of let­
ters to be printed in the future.
Soetjianto
Graduate Student, CS
Editor’s note: Just as Cliffe chose 
the Clock as his forum for free 
speech, The Tartan’s Forum sec­
tion is a forum for letters. We at­
tempt to print all letters, regard­
less of their opinions.
Marking • University Center • Greeks • Student lnvolvment • Student Senate 
Athletic Facilities • Women’s Issues • Enrollment • Student Health • Banking 
Politics • Funding • Football Field • Student Affairs • Constitution • Construction 
Dvercrowding • Contras • Housing • Sororities • Charities • Gymnasium • Dininj 
Service » Environment • Recycling • Exercise • Congress • Middle East • Weathei 
Advising • Sex • Geeks • Alcohol • Drugs • The Fence» Gay Rights • Comedy 
Woody Allen • The Muppets • Mail • Manure • Advertising • Disco • Crime • All 
'•lighters • Grant's Sex Life • Ishtar II • Hair • Mousse • Human Relations • SEI 
Presit^^^l Search • WRCT • Computers • Classified Research • DC-lOs • Howdy' 
^olui^^Hill's Hair • Funding • Student Affairs • Construction • Overcrowding 
r-IousiMBBH Hostages^ccycnHj (MOTHS «Alcohol
3ay I^aBg ° i i1 ag ¦ Woods
Mien JHd i ggfflolga« 1\fjQ&J :>taa|s r jBaflmffii Omc ro w d
ig * ^Piritiei
Dining Service • Environment • Recycling • Congress • Club Sports • Middle East 
Weather • Advising • Crime • Sex • Geeks • Corruption • Violence • Alcohol • Drug: 
Music • Mighty Mouse • Comedy • Woody Allen • Funding • Student Affairs « 
Construction • Overcrowding • Housing • Racial Issues • Broadway • Charities • 
Dining Service • Environment • Recycling • Congress • Middle East •. Gay Rights 1 
Weather • Advising • Sex • Geeks • Alcohol • Drugs ° Blacks • Music • Mighty Mouse 
Comedy • Love • Construction • Track Field • Partisanship* University Center ¦ 
•reeks • Student lnvolvment • Student Senate »Athletic Facilities • Women’s Issue.« 
Enrollment • Preaching • The Clock • Deadlines • Funding • Football Field •
Letters to the Editor • Deadline Friday 5 pm 
Skibo 50
UlWhy Morgan is looking for a special 
breed of genius.
Graduates who have analytic 
talent sparked by imagination 
should consider market analyst 
and research opportunities at 
J.P. Morgan.
J.P. Morgan provides sophis­
ticated financial services to the 
world’s leading corporations 
and governments. This busi­
ness requires that we manage 
more than routine risks. Our 
position as a global financial 
power demands it
CIWOJ.PMofgui&Co.lnrurpuniUaJ ,
One key is development of 
strong, proprietary analytic 
models. They’re critical to 
Morgan’s moment-to-moment 
trading activities around the 
world. The success of our 
actions—whether for funding, 
trading, or risk management— 
relies on those models. Each 
day, they must pass the test in 
one of the world’s toughest 
proving grounds: the financial 
markets.
To assure that success, we 
seek exceptionally talented, 
team-oriented individuals who 
have strong mathematical and 
computer modeling skills. 
Demonstrated mastery of 
computer-based decision and 
simulation tools is important, 
as is a desire to work in an 
environment that fosters and 
rewards superior performance.
Please plan to attend our 
upcoming information session.
Or contact Lynn A. Avitabile, 
J.P. Morgan & Co. Incorporated, 
60 Wall Street, New York, NY 
10260.
Career
Opportunities 
at Morgan
JPMorgan
THE TARTAN
Carnegie Melton’s Student Newspaper
Since 1906
Editor-in-Chief.......................Howdy Pierce
Managing Editor...............Michael T. Rose
Business Manager.................Frank DiVrto
News Editor..............Nicole Brockmann
Forum Editor......................Susan Abrams
Sports Editor................Katie Culbertson
Features Editor........Dexter T. Kobayashi
Diversions Editor.............Stephen Glicker
Calendar Editor.........Daniel de Grandpre
Magazine Editor.............Jennifer Kerstein
Dossier Literary Editor..........Jack Silbert
Dossier Design Editor..........Chris Shields
Art Editor..................William C. Sabram
Photo Editor.....................Tad Dockstader
Photo Staff Manager.......Ignatius Sasmrta
Darkroom Manager..........DA Henderson
Production Manager........Beth A. Moses
Copy Manager..........................Alim Ray
Asst. Managing Editor ...Nathan Fullerton 
Asst. Business Mgr. . Michael J. Ewedosh 
Asst. News Editors.... Rhonda Struminger 
David B. Ladek 
Asst. Forum Ed. ...Samantha A. Kossman
Asst. Sports Editor..........Jason McDonald
Asst. Features Editors..........Trupti Patel
Allison Durazzi
Asst. Diversions Eds........Dawn Brosonski
Terri Kasch
Asst. Magazine Editor...........Alison Green
Asst. Art Editor...................Kristina Boinis
Contributing Editors 
Kevin Barney, Grant Carmichael, James B. 
Endres (Tokyo), Dustin Frazier, Fanon W. 
Levy (London), Jonathan Levy, Eric 
McAnallen, Thomas Nichols, Natalie 
Peterson, Don Pickett
Senior Staff 
Staffwriters: Waseem Hussain, Javier Grillo- 
Marxuach, Randy Udavcak. Darkroom: 
Jason Digman.
Staffwriters 
Laura Adams, Matt Adler. Suzanne Bartlett, 
Russ Bedel, T.S. Blass, Maml Borek, Allan 
Bourdius, Alison Carter, Caleb Cohen, 
Andrew Cosentino, Jill Denesvich, Megan 
Dietz, Dan Erhard, Dan Fercell, Francis M. 
Goldsbeny, Javier Grilk>Marxuach, Judy 
Grossman, Rachel Haas, Daniel Holland, 
Sarah Hamilton, Colleen Kane, Georgina 
Koon, Richard Kwlatkowski, Dave Martin, 
Daniel Martinez, Brendan McFeely, Bidisha 
Mukherjee, Chin Oh, Rich Robinson, Marc 
Roces, Doug Scott, Mike Shapiro, David 
Schwartz, Lui Sieh, Alan Sloan, Jason Lee 
Smith, Kelly Sterling, Tina Urso, A. Franklin 
Wheeler, Laurie Wiikison, Christian Williams, 
Jeffrey Woodford, Robert Wyner
Art
Sunrta Cherian, Brandon Chin, Eric Davis, 
Ken Flickstein, Damien Miller, Jen Nelson, 
Chin Oh, Jeff Oplinger, Dave Pagani, Naomi 
Pearson, Jason Peltz, Kate Rollenhagen, 
Cesar Sandros
Comics
GregBaimal,AndiBriggs,FlintCmmpacher, 
Eric Davis, Danny Fahs, Chris Fria, Dan 
Gallagher, Dave Kapla, Andre Khromov, 
Doug Lamperski, John Lin, Nell McCarthy, 
Craig Mrusek, Paul Reed, RJ. Runas, 
ChariesSabatos, MikeShapiro, JackSilbert, 
Clifford Snider, Ray Strobel, K. Michael 
Thomas, Nick Wardigo
Photography/Darkroom 
Rick Antolic, David Docktor, Dan Frey, 
Vivek Gupta, Asif Ikram, Jason Irwin, Hillary 
Kahn, Stephen Kang, Doug Luce, Sam 
Mastromatteo, Jessica Miller, Guy 
Paquette, Pauletta Pan, Alex Patho Jr., 
Kishor Rao, Stanley Wong, Buddy Wells, 
Brian Woods, Gwokang Yang
Production/Layout 
Ann Campbell, Jennifer Forbes, Samantha 
A. Kossman, Manish Modh, Pankaj S. Mody, 
Kishor K. Rao, Derek Rubinoff, Jen Sherer, 
Jim Zelenka
Copy
Heather Broud, Marybeth A. Griffin, Heidi 
Hoover, Sean Kracklauer, Lenna Kydes, 
Daniel Martinez, Erika Olson, Christine 
Rahiml-Assa, Christian R. Williams
. Business 
James Kim, Mary Kaye Rodgers
The Tartan is the student newspaper of 
Carnegie Mellon University. It is a weekly 
newspaper published by students during the 
fall and spring semesters, at no cost to 
members of the University community. It is 
printed by Western Pennsylvania Printing.lnc. 
Subscriptions are available for the semester 
or academic year. The Editorials appearing 
at the beginning of the opinion section are 
the official opinion of The Tartan editorial 
board. Columns are the opinions of indi­
vidual authors. Letters to the Editor are 
opinions of authors who are usually, but not 
necessarily members of the University com­
munity. A letter intended for publication rpust 
be signed and include the writer's address 
and phone number for verification. Names 
will be withheld upon request. The Tartan 
reserves the right to condense or reject any 
letter or column. Copyright © 1990 by The 
Tartan. The Tartan editorial board reserves 
the right to withhold from publication,, any 
copy it deems unfit for publication.
Office: Skibo 50 (412) 268-2111
Mailing address: The Tartan/Box 17/Camegie MellonUniversity/Pittsburgh, PA 15213-3890
Funded in part by the Activities Fee.All rights reserved.
Library of Congress ISSN U: 08903107. ______

---------------------------------------------------

10The Tartan • Carnegie Mellon • 22 October 1990
Anti-rape 
painting 
angers frats
on
Letter to the Editor
Editor:
This letter is ad­
dressed to the indi­
viduals who have 
been painting the 
anti-rape slogans 
(namely, “Stop Raping,” and “Sex - 
Yes = Rape”) in the fraternity quad. I 
gather from the Crime and Incident 
Report in The Tartan’s October 1 
issue that these slogans were painted 
to educate the fraternities about rape. 
, Personally, I am against rape. If 
that sounds stupid and obvious to 
you, imagine how I felt when stereo­
typed as the kind of individual who 
obviously requires an education about 
rape. I do not know anyone in my 
fraternity who supports rape in any 
way, shape, or form, and I personally 
resent these high-minded individu­
als who have taken pains to peg-hole 
the entire male portion of the Greek 
system as lustful, evil, and ignorant 
beings who need to be taught a valu­
able lesson via pavement vandalism.
I will not attempt to extol the vir­
tues of the Greek system, or go into 
the specifics of the attempts of many 
national fraternities to promote fra­
ternities as organizations dedicated 
to extinguishing the horrible crimes 
of hazing, date rape, and a host of 
other typically “fraternal” activities. 
I am of the opinion that the individu­
als who painted those slogans have 
minds that are not open to change, 
and such accounts would be a waste 
of time.
As such, it seems that I am merely 
venting my spleen. Thank you for 
listening anyway.
Alex Ogilvie
Junior, Civ. E and EPP
Brother, Pi Lambda Phi
Health Department insures sanitation at inspections
on
l«lcr la I So EditorEditor:
I would like to take a 
moment to clarify an 
article that appeared L6tt©T tO
the Editor
concerning inspections of fraternity food 
facilities by the Allegheny County Health 
Department [“Health dept inspects 
frats”].
The fraternities are now being in­
spected by the Health Department un-
der regulation which requires that group 
feeding facilities meet Food Service re­
quirements, and be inspected twice a 
year. All initial inspections of all food 
facilities are conducted on an unan­
nounced, random basis. Follow-up in­
spections to review compliance are 
scheduled.
At the time of the semi-annual initial 
food inspection, orders are issued to cor­
rect violations. Fines are never levied at 
this time. Facilities are fined only when
they fail to comply with these orders. 
These fines are imposed by a court, not 
by the Health Department. In cases 
where serious violations exist, the per­
mit for the facility can be revoked, and 
the facility is ordered to cease its opera­
tion.
This is done to insure that food facili­
ties operate in a manner which is consis­
tent with good sanitation, so that the 
possibility of food-borne illness is elimi­
nated. The program, such as is carried
out by the Allegheny County Health De­
partment, has shown to be effective in 
this regard.
Please understand that the Allegheny 
County Health Department is a county 
agency and not a city or state agency, as 
was implied in various parts of the ar­
ticle.
Charles J. Vukotich, Jr.
Allegheny County Health Depart­
ment Employee
Personal effort provides the key to academic success
Editor:
I am troubled by “the problems” 
Brendan McFeely expressed in the 
September 17 issue of The Tartan 
[“Freshmen need to learn good study
Letter to 
the Editor
habits early on”]. He had coasted “through high school 
on pure natural ability” and has been confronted with 
his first quiz grade at CMU. The implications are that 
he considers the grade much too low. He further cites 
several examples of students who do not study and 
some who furthermore do not go to class. He thinks 
most freshmen are having the same problems.
Is this truly a typical situation for Carnegie Mellon
freshmen? What exactly does he consider to be the 
problem? His inability to coast? His low grade? Does 
he really consider his neighbor “lucky” because “he 
has not gone to one class yet, except for tests, and still 
does well? What does he consider “doing well”?
I suspect Mr. McFeely is frightened and does intend 
to work, even if only long enough to make respectable 
grades to transfer to a less demanding environment. 
Hopefully, when he puts forth some effort, he will no 
longer rate success by grades. Success is measured by 
excellence, whichis achieved through effort. A student’s 
effort may not always be rewarded with an A, but it 
will always reward him/her with growth. Through
effort one will learn how little one knows. Through effort 
one will learn how to think. Through effort one will find 
creative solutions to difficult problems. It is through 
effort that one becomes an educated person.
How naive Mr. McFeeley is to believe “that the slight­
est little slip could ruin everything.” Yes, the rest of his 
life is at stake. And if he chooses to order it in such a way 
as to avoid all chances of failure, if he chooses to avoid 
investing his best personal effort, he will grow old 
without ever having succeeded at anything worthwhile.
Barbara A. Newbury 
Parent of a student
Human Relations Commission report puts a damper on diversity
Recently, the report of the Carnegie 
Mellon Human Relations Commission 
(HRC) was made available to the campus 
population. This report, which bears the 
name of Commission Chairman William 
F. Elliott, also vice president for enroll­
ment, is one ofthe mostdisturbingthings 
I’ve read since I’ve been here.
The report first presents “University- 
Wide Initiatives,” one of which deals 
with the policy on gender, ethnic, and 
racial harassment that the HRC has 
adopted. The main point of this policy is 
a gross infringement on the rights of 
others. Under it, members ofthe campus 
community possess the “freedom to 
pursue” any action they consider to be 
harassment “without retribution.” A 
friend of mine pointed out this means a 
person can be wrongly accused of harass­
ment and have no means of taking action 
against the person who tried to damage
The Archer's Quiver
Iep—
Allan Bourdius
his character. This policy has no legal 
justification and is totally uncalled for.
The section on “Student Support Ini­
tiatives” is full of objectionable propos­
als. It is about what CMU is doing to 
assist black, Hispanic, Asian, and female 
students with absolutely no mention 
about how they are improving the qual­
ity of the student body as a whole. This is 
reverse prejudice at its worst.
Basically, CMU is saying, “Since you’re 
a black student, this is what we’re going 
to do for you.” I would like to know what 
CMU is going to do for those of us who do 
not belong to any particular minority. I
guess CMU thinks that since most of us 
are a part of white male America, we 
have no problems. One example of this is 
the Women’s Center. I think that the 
Center is a good idea, but where is its 
male counterpart? Just because we’re 
men doesn’t mean that we don’t deserve 
the same avenues for support and dis­
cussion as women.
The report continually harps on the 
premise of “diversity.” “Diversity,” or a 
form of the word, appears on nearly 
every other page of the report. The report 
does not define how we are increasing 
“diversity,” but how we are limiting it. 
Diversity does not involve recognizing 
people as belonging to one ethnic, reli­
gious, social, or gender group, but recog­
nizing each person as an individual. It is 
one’s right to self-determination. We are 
free to believe what we want. Asking the 
campus population to approve of, or even
accept, every quirk of humanity is a 
ludicrous principle at best.
“Diversity” will not reside here until 
we can respect each other for what we 
are. We need to accept that some people 
are bigots, sexists, or whatever other 
label you care to name them, and that 
there’s nothing anybody can rightfully 
do to attempt to change or broaden indi­
vidual beliefs. You don’t have to like 
everything everybody believes, but you 
must respect everyone’s opinions.
If this report is to become University 
policy, we can only suffer as a whole. If 
CMU is set on grouping us into minority 
or non-minority categories and to restrict 
our rights to protect our beliefs and our 
character, then I will no longer be proud 
to say I am a student here.
Allan Bourdius is a sophomore applied 
history major.
Do you want to
STUDY ABROAD?
Come to the
Adamson Wing, Baker Hall 
TONIGHT, October 22 
at 7:00 pm
.rSyn #Ufk St 0OQ u..vO. 
pxv O39ratlo -ySlyakC Ut 
>aAat ate .mUnLoyfate 
-ySlyakC Ut aff eUC9UAfUtoC ate 
Ut kSCn 9SitnyUoC
Materials Science
Engineering 
with the 
RIGHT STUFF
Department of Metallurgical Engineering 
and 
Materials Science 
CIT Freshman Open House
sponsored by
2TThea rT tn•aCng•hrngi Mloeg•hrn
219 Smith Hall (behind Hamburg Hall) 
x 7595
An informal discussion with refreshments
Wean Hall 4327 
Thursday, Oct. 25 
4:30 pm

---------------------------------------------------

The Tartan • Carnegie Mellon • 22 October 199011
WHITE HOUSE WEATHERState Department’s plan looks ominous
VVI^P &ÜSTS -----
WITH PERIOPS OFVEÑS& FOG
Not since the days of Lend- 
Lease (the United States’ policy 
of supplying England with mili­
tary hardware to fight Nazi Ger­
many during World War II) has 
the United Staes sold weaponry 
on such an immense scale to an 
ally. As fate would have it, it seems 
that our country is about to em­
bark on yet another mass supply 
effort of weapons to a foreign 
country.
Supply effort? Let me rephrase 
that. How about a $20 billion 
military package to Saudi Arabia 
(paid for in cash, of course). Yes, 
the United States will be selling 
Saudi Arabia approximately $23 
billion dollars in equipment; a 
package which will include the 
most advanced version of the F- 
15 Eagle, highly sophisticated 
antimissile missiles like the Pa­
triot missile, high-tech radar, and 
many other weapon systems, not 
to mention enough spare parts to 
last for years. But what are the 
implications of such a sale of 
weapons, especially to a nation 
such as Saudi Arabia?
To begin with, this is not the
David Schwartz
first time that the United States 
has sold sophisticated weapons to 
Saudi Arabia. A decade ago, the 
U.S. sold the royal family of Saudi 
Arabia (Fahd ibn Abd al-Aiz was 
king at the time) several AWACS 
radarplanes and F-l 5 fighter jets. 
Although there was much debate 
over whether or not the United 
States should have sold such so­
phisticated weaponry, the arms 
deal was completed anyway. It 
was argued that by selling such 
advanced tactical weapons to an 
Arab nation, there would be an 
impending threat to Israel. But 
the counter-argument was that 
King Fahd was a moderate and, 
in addition, the most progressive 
within the royal family of al-Saud. 
Thus, the possibility of any threat 
to Israel was not true. This a 
rather poor argument.
It is, now October 1990. Iraq is 
occupying and destroying Kuwait, 
using innocent civilians as hu­
man shields, creating a massive 
refugee problem at the Iraqi-Jor- 
danian border and threatening 
American troops in Saudi Arabia 
by amassing several more thou­
sand troops in Kuwait, as the 
latest news source has said. With 
this serious Iraqi threat, the U.S. 
State Department found it nec­
essary to sell Saudi Arabia an 
immense military package. Will 
this arms deal maintain a new 
“peace”?
What would happen, let us hy­
pothetically say, if Saddam 
Hussein decided to steamroll his 
way into Jordan, and topple King 
Hussein’s government, earnestly 
claiming that a group of insur­
gents i]equested Saddam’s assis­
tance. Well as you know, Israel 
has firmly stated that an inva­
sion of Jordan by Iraq would be 
considered an act of war against 
Israel. But now, the stakes have 
drastically changed, haven’t they? 
The already shaky alliance the 
U.S. has with Syria, and the many
other “moderate” Arab nations 
will crumble instantly. Remem­
ber, although Arabs are currently 
fighting Arabs, the moment Is­
rael is brought into the political 
picture, all eyes, or weapons, turn 
on Israel.
Now what does Saudi Arabia 
have, or rather, will be getting? 
The ominous $23 billion arms 
package will not be for use against 
Iraq anymore, but against Israel 
now.
It could very well happen that 
this Persian Gulf crisis, and I am 
not talking hypothetically any­
more, can explode to something 
beyond disastrous if Hussein de­
cides to up the ante by pulling 
Israel into the crisis. In a nut­
shell, the arms sale to Saudi 
Arabia is astonishingly frighten­
ing and the alliances the U.S. has 
made with nations such as Syria 
are shocking.
Let’s hear it for the State De­
partment! This isn’t the first time 
they’ve botched up.
David Schwartz is a sophomore 
economics major.
Broadcast users lack courtesy rules for talking on the network
I want to talk about something that is 
a unique problem (as far as I know) to 
CMU, which is the highly addictive time- 
waster, Broadcast.
My roommate has the best computer 
on our floor. It didn’t take long to have 
his Machookedup to the network. I soon 
stumbled upon Broadcast, and spent 
hours in front of the screen that night 
when I had an enormous homework load 
I should have been doing instead. I met 
people all over campus: Hippo, Beav, 
Davey (the female version), Jennie, 
Barney Stubble, and of course, Butter­
cup. I had some interesting conversa­
tions, and soon discovered that I actually 
knew some of these people. It is a bit 
spooky to be in the middle of a conversa­
tion with someone when they suddenly 
send “I know you!!!” over the net. Im­
mediately, you begin to wonder if you 
;aid anything you shouldn’t have. It is 
most disconcerting.
For about two weeks, I spent far too
Brendan McFeely
much time on Broadcast. Other guys on 
my floor soon discovered how much fun it 
can be. A drama major walked in on me 
one day and started making cracks about 
computer geeks and how they pass their 
time. The very next day, I walked into 
my room to see him hunched over the 
keyboard, engaged in a conversation with 
someone in a cluster.
While Broadcast can be fun and a handy 
tool when trying to get in touch with 
someone, it can also be misused. Once I 
was hanging out in my room, telling 
myself how I was going to begin working 
soon, when I was really playing with 
Broadcast, bantering back and forth with 
a friend. The RA from downstairs ap­
peared at my door, and got upset when I 
said I couldn’t tell her who was using my 
friend’s handle. She found him, and be­
gan laying into him for sending her a 
message that basically called her a bitch.
He of course denied it, and she sup­
posedly believed him. Nonetheless, she 
took his name down as a participant in 
an infraction of dorm rules. She came 
back to my room and took my name 
down, on the grounds that I was also 
using Broadcast at the same time.
We were both a bit upset by this, even 
though we both knew we hadn’t done it. 
The problem with Broadcast is that 
anyone can use another’s handle. Ap­
parently, that is what happened here. 
The ability to get other innocent people 
in trouble using the system is enormous, 
and it certainly came to the forefront in 
this case.
In another incident, my roommate and 
his friend were the victims. The friend 
was using my roommate’s computer to
finish some homework when he received 
a message that cast aspersions on his 
ancestry, to put it lightly. He replied in 
kind, and shortly this flame war esca­
lated to the point where whoever was 
sending to him called him a “nigger- 
loving Jew.” No one appreciated seeing 
this. The flame war kept intensifying 
until several guys living on the floor 
were ready to go find this bigoted asshole 
and kick the crap out of him. We had a 
troop of 15 people crowded in my room, 
gathered around the computer, getting 
angrier and angrier as this bigot con­
tinued to tell off my roommate and his 
friend, who are both Jewish. Eventually, 
my roommate sent a challenge to this 
guy to come meet them and settle the 
argument face-to-face.
Needless to say, when the heat was on, 
the bigot disappeared in typical bigot 
fashion.
These two incidents basically show that 
while Broadcast is fun and a great way to
waste time, it also has a high potential to 
be misused. That people can pick any 
handle they want is not a way to run a 
system, with the freedom to simply pre­
tend to be someone else at any time. That 
bigots like the one who called my friends 
“nigger-loving Jews” have access to the 
net without any rules placed on them is 
also far from the optimum way to have 
the system set up.
Unfortunately, Broadcast is also made 
good by the fact that no one really knows 
who they are talking to. It is much easier 
to carry on an uninhibited conversation 
with someone you will never meet face- 
to-face. In this instance, we have to de­
cide whether or not we want to take the 
good, which is indeed good, with the bad, 
which can be downright disgusting.
Brendan McFeely is a freshman cre­
ative writing major who has just barely 
managed to go cold turkey from Broad­
cast.
Get off campus and into the city to rid yourself of a confining environment
It was time to find Pier — 
something was bothering me, and 
lad been for two weeks. Talking 
with her had always helped be- 
bre, and it should help again now.i
^or two weeks I thought and 
hought, and became more frus- 
rated, because I had some parts, 
_ iut the whole eluded me. 
Wednesday night, I decided the 
ime had come, so I found Pier, 
and we talked.
We ended up staying in the Yard
for four hours, and figuring out 
quite a lot. We both had a feeling 
of unfulfillment — we were not 
accomplishing anything here, not 
doing anything worthwhile. It was 
not merely sophomore slump or 
loneliness. Those alone would not 
account for such a bottomless and 
abysmal feeling. It was something 
deeper, something more trou­
bling.
It was a sense that we came 
here to be creative and free, and
Don Pickett
were not being allowed to do so. 
We were trapped, and wanted to 
be free.
It is a wish, I think, shared by 
most people. The ability to be in­
dependent enough to set your own 
agenda, to allow yourself the free­
dom to do solely what pleases 
you, no matter what that is, is a 
very tough thing to accomplish
— there are very few things that 
allow you to be that free. One is 
enormous talent. The other is 
money. The trick, it would seem, 
is to get both.
But before all this, someone re­
ally needed to ask the question, 
“how much freedom should we
get,” oi’, its corollary, “how much 
freedom do we have the right to 
expect,” or, even better, “how 
much freedom are you willing to 
fight for?”
That is a very good question. 
We decided we were ready to 
fight for a little freedom, to get off 
our butts and make this place 
work for us, to get off campus and 
get into Pittsburgh.
Carnegie Mellon can suck you 
in so that you never get beyond
the confines of the campus. Get 
into Pittsburgh, the city, and see 
what’s there.
It was time to stop bitching. Get 
my own place, go down to the 
Humane Shelter, and get some 
kittens.
About a billion of them.
Don Pickett is a sophomore cre­
ative writing major. He spent the 
weekend playing with Sarah's 
cats.
FREE FLU SHOTS
Thursday, October 25 
8:30 am - 4:30 pm 
Skibo Room 13
Available to faculty, staff, and students. CMU I.D. will be required.
Recommended for:
• Individuals 55 years of age and older.
• Individuals with chronic lung or heart problems, including asthma.
• Individuals who have required regular medical follow-up or hospitalization during the preceding year 
because of diseases including diabetes, severe kidney problems, or problems with the immune system.
• Individuals who are taking medications that suppress the immune system.
• Teenagers up to and including 18 years of age on long-term aspirin therapy.
Sponsored by Student Health Service and Student Affairs

---------------------------------------------------

12The Tartan • Carnegie Mellon • 22 October 1990
The American educational system needs to learn quite a few lessons
Education in the United States 
is a failure. It is a dismal failure 
in fact. If I understand correctly, 
one of the primary purposes of 
education is to create a society 
capable of governing itself effi­
ciently and ably. The purpose of 
education is to impart to citizens 
knowledge, their responsibilities 
and their duties in order for society 
to function properly. Also, edu­
cation informs citizens on how to 
protect themselves from the evils 
of society, such as poverty. The 
true indication of how effective 
the American education system 
has been is to observe American 
society at work.
There are many instances in 
which the American educational 
system has failed. First, we merely 
have to look at the treatment of 
children in this country. American
The Alternative
Lui Sieh
support for children is pathetic. 
America has one of the highest 
infant mortality rates at 9.7 
deaths per 1,000 births, worse 
thanl7otherdevelopedcountries. 
In a nation with extremely high 
medical insurance costs and ad­
vanced medical technology, this 
is a damn shame. This is a state­
ment on the priorities of Ameri­
cans. Old people come first, chil­
dren last. It is also a damning 
statement on how much empha­
sis is placed on the welfare of the 
child. Is this anyway to prepare
for the future? Mothers don’t even 
know how to begin to take care of 
their children with malnutrition 
andneglectbecomingthe primary 
factors in the worsening state of 
child caretaking in America.
How about the disintegration 
of urban America? How many 
stories are needed to tell of the 
crime and drugproblems, and the 
collapse of civilized society in 
cities? Mayor David Dinkins of 
New York, for example, has ran 
into fierce resistance from the 
public in his attempts to raise 
taxes in order to hire more police 
officers to provide added security 
for the city.
The collapse of civilized society 
can also be found in Los Angeles, 
where gang violence is 
indiscriminantlykillinginnocent 
citizens. The dismal environmen­
tal protection against acid rain 
and nuclear waste is another in­
dication of irresponsibility.
A more concrete example of 
education’s failure is the 20 year 
low for SAT scores. There are 
numerous accounts of students 
not being able to identify even the 
most trivial of history questions.
And what about the failure of 
American students in the maths 
and sciences? The dropout rates 
for high school students, particu­
larly minorities, show a society 
becoming less informed and less 
able to become informed of the 
world and to govern itself effec­
tively. The polarization between 
the haves and the have-nots is 
more than who has an education 
and who doesn’t. It’s an indication 
that decent education hasbecome 
accessable only for those who can
afford the prohibitively high tu­
ition costs. Education is a privi­
lege and a farce to its ideals.
Government and thepoliticians 
have become totally irresponsible 
to their duties as the caretakers 
of society and the nation. If people 
can not govern for themselves, 
then as elected representatives, 
these politicians should know 
better. It is easy to blame the 
problems of society on Govern­
ment, but the blame lies mostly 
on the citizens themselves. They 
have thepowerin this democratic 
country to govern themselves and 
to let their wishes be known. 
However, with an educational 
system turning out illiterate and 
uninformed citizens, how can they 
voice their ideas? If the system 
can not provide capable young 
people to work in businesses, how
does society prosper?
The general problems )n 
America today is a general indict- 
ment on America’s educational 
system. While crime rates and 
infant mortality rates as such are 
notdirect indicators of the success 
or failure of the educational sys- 
tem, they do reflect upon citizens 
who “graduate” from the system 
if they graduate at all.
If the purpose of education is to 
teach responsibility, discipline 
and knowledge to the nation’s 
citizenry in order for society to 
operate smoothly, the inability 
and unwillingness of society to 
address these social problems is a 
condemnation of the American 
educational system.
Lui Sieh is a senior applied his­
tory major.
Today’s government leaders practice too much partisanship in their politics
Something curious just happened in 
our country: our leaders turned out to be 
not very good pacesetters. I am referring 
to the budget agreement reached by the 
President and Congressional “leaders.” 
This compromise has points that both 
sides do not like; that is the nature of a 
settlement sometimes. Democrats do not 
like the cuts in Medicare; Republicans 
don’t like losing capital gains and in­
creases in taxes. Both sides that negoti­
ated this agreement concede that a bet­
ter proposal can’t be had. The Congres­
sional “leaders” fear they won’t have the 
votes to pass the budget.
Why must the President and Congress
persuade the rank and file with such 
vigor if the “leaders” have a plan to fight 
the budget deficits that have plagued us? 
We don’t want to hear such talk. We 
expect government should take less from 
us, but it must also do more services for 
us. The government cannot perform in 
such a manner. Instead, government 
expands the national debt each year.
Some say this problem is from the 
Reagan Era. I disagree. Reagan espoused 
a theory of supply-side economics in or­
der to cure our economic woes. Some 
have called it “voodoo economics,” as 
George Bush did when he was running 
against Reagan; his plan had valid theory
XJ tu\y ' 7.5. Blass
behind it. Although our economic expan­
sion hasn’t outgrown the debt we 
accumulated,we have had the longest 
economic expansion in peacetime we have 
ever seen. Perhaps it was necessary to 
have a large debt, but Congress became 
enamored with the idea. America gained 
it’s wealth and now needs to pay out­
standing debts before moving forward.
The time has come to pay the debt and 
eliminate budget deficits. Congressmen 
need to know that we recognize the need 
to act affirmatively in endorsing the bud­
get proposal before them.- A clear sign 
from the people, such as writing your 
Congressman, would signal to Congress 
that they need not be cowed away from 
support of this legislation. They must 
enthusiastically work together to forge 
ahead in passing the compromise.
Why must America pay the bill now? 
America needed to borrow from abroad 
to meet its demand for cash. By doing so, 
it turned its moniker “the world’s largest 
creditor nation” into the pejorative phrase
“the world’s largest debtor nation.” Cur­
rently we pay hundreds of billions of 
dollars to service this debt. Even America 
in all its wealth and splendor cannot 
continue to practice such a budgetary 
policy. We must pay for what we want or 
else we will have to learn to do without.
We must solve this problem. If the 
present course isn’t altered, we risk;eco- 
nomic disaster. America needs leaders 
who show leadership at solving prob­
lems at this crucial stage and Congress 
seems to be interested in nothing more 
than partisan politics.
T.S. Blass is a sophomore IM majpr.
Straights enjoy more rights than the gay population
RIGHTS, from page 8
understood to be independent of 
procreation, since the state can­
not force married couples to have 
children, nor can it forbid infer­
tile couples to marry.
Gay people are just as capable 
of procreation as bisexual or 
straight people, and many gay 
people choose to have children for 
the same kinds of reasons that 
straight people choose to have 
them. But, unlike straight people, 
gay people who choose to be par­
ents face rationally unjustifiable 
legal barriers, such as being de­
nied access to reproductive tech­
niques like artificial insemina­
tion. They also have difficulties 
establishing the legal relationship 
between the child and the 
nonbiological co-parent in a same- 
sex couple.
Straight people have the right 
to defend their country; gay
people, no matter how patriotic, 
loyal and capable they are, are 
routinely denied this right when 
their sexual orientation is discov­
ered. The very same kinds of ar­
guments that the military uses to 
exclude gay people (e.g., that their 
presence would exacerbate anti­
gay feelings and lead to discipline 
and morale problems and that 
gay people would be unable to 
effectively perform their duties 
because of their relationships) 
were used in the past to discrimi­
nate against racial minorities and 
women. The arguments are no 
better now than they were then. 
A 1957 study by the Navy found 
that records of gay servicepersons 
revealed superior performance, 
but, rather than change its anti­
gay policies, the Navy classified 
the report.
One of the most important 
rights protected by Constitutional
law that straight people enjoy is 
the right to form intimate asso­
ciations. Bisexuals do not uni­
formly have this right everywhere 
in this country. Same-gender 
sexual activity is a crime in many 
states, punishable by long prison 
terms. There are few public places 
where it is safe for a gay couple to 
walk hand-in-hand or to express 
casual affection in ways that 
straight couples take for granted.
Straight people have rights that 
gay people do not have, even 
though there is no rational basis 
in civil law for making a distinc­
tion based on differences of sexual 
orientation. That is the foundation 
for the legitimacy of the gay rights 
movement, just as the lack of a 
rational basis for distinguishing 
between people on the basis of 
race was the foundation for the 
legitimacy of the civil rights 
movement. Gay people are not
demandingmore rights than those 
enjoyed by straight people. They 
are simply demanding equality.
Is there a conflict between equal 
rights for gay people and the rights 
of straight people? If the question 
is “Would straight people lose 
some of their legal rights?” then 
the answer is “No.” Straight 
people will have to get used to 
same-sex marriage, many more 
gay couples raising children, gay 
people in military uniform, gay 
people showing affection freely in 
public, and many other things 
that they are not used to. But 
none of these things infringe on 
the legal rights of straight people. 
No one has the right to order the 
lives of others to conform with a 
personal view of social arrange­
ments.
Duane T. Williams 
Robotics Institute
hro NSteSt
hroanyo -ySlyak
Of SARAH LAWRENCE COLLEGE atui the 
BRITISH AMERICAN DRAMA ACADEMY----------------------------------------------------------—------
A unique opportunity for collcgc students to study 
with Britain’s leading actors and directors. Acting study 
and performance, supplemented by academic work. Full 
academic credit is provided for cither a semester or a year. 
For details ar.d an application, write:
The London Theatre Program, Box 
Sarah Lawrence College, Rronxville, N. Y. 10708.
NORMAL VOLUNTEERS
Male Subjects in good health between ages 18-45 are 
needed for a study testing a new eye medication.
Earn $150 w
Conducted by The Eye & Ear Institute of Pittsburgh 
For more Information call 647-7647
• EPLD.PLD.PALS*EPROM.E2PROM.CMOS.SRAM.
Your education shouldn’t end at graduation.
Learning should be an ongoing, life­long process. Your first career move can set the stage. If you're graduat­ing with a degree in Computer Sci­ence or Electrical Engineering, and you're looking for a company that will recognize your efforts and offer an excellent learning ground, look no further than Altera. We’re the leading manufacturer of Erasable Programmable Logic Devices and are seeking self-motivated gradu­
ates for the following positions:
• PC Planners • Application Engineers• Design Engineers• Product Engineers
See your Placement Center 
regarding our Interview 
schedule on:
November 5th and 6th, 1990
AND“ET
• EPLD»PLD*PALS*EPROM*E2PROM*CMOS»SRAM»
comments from conversations with some women at CMU
WOMEN WANT MEN TO KNOW
Women can love men as friends without crossing 
the line into romantic involvement”
-V
“Say what you really mean, not what you think you 
should say
<%/
“Just because we are different doesn’t mean we’re 
any less than men are
iC ^“If you are unsure if a woman will be receptive to an 
advance, wait and ask
“We don’t buy into myths that physical strength 
makes for a strong person
;‘We are not fragile — don’t be overprotective or try 
to take care of us
Men who are most attractive to women are the ones 
who stand out in a crowd by being themselves”
»V»
“We look for mutual companionship in 
relationships
ENGINEERS
OVERSEAS
DON’T:
-wear a suit and tie 
-shuffle papers and answer 
phones
-sit at a desk all day
DO:
-live in foreign countries 
-work outdoors 
-take charge 
-make decisions 
-face many challenges 
-bear heavy responsibility 
-work long hours 
-operate sophisticated elec­
tronic equipment 
-record information on oil and 
gas wells
-interpret that information 
ENJOY:
-being their own boss 
-top salaries/benefits
THIS JOB IS NOT FOR 
EVERYONE — BUT IT 
COULD BE FOR YOU!
Schlumberger, the world leader 
In Wireline Well Logging has 
Immediate career opportunities 
Overseas for individuals with 
an M.S. or B.S. degree in E.E., 
M.E., Physics, Aerospace 
Engineering or the Geo- 
Sciences, excellent scholastic 
record and hands-on aptitude.
OPENINGS FOR 
PERMANENT
POSITIONS
U.S or Canadian Citizenship preferred
INFORMATION MEETING:
• Date: November 29, 1990 
Time: 7 pm — 9 pm 
Place: Sklbo Room 12
INTERVIEWING:
November 30, 1990
•All candidates must attend Information Meeting
Schlumberger
Exceptional people. Exceptional technology. Worldwide.

---------------------------------------------------

SPORTS
PRESS PASS
_______By Jason McDonald
Why the Reds 
beat Oakland
From the way people talked 
. about the Oakland Athletics, one 
would have thought that the Cin­
cinnati Reds should have stayed 
home last week. The media were 
busy throwing around words like 
“dynasty” and “unbeatable, ” that 
it seemed Cincinnati would be 
to slip one win past the
Then a funny thing happened 
- the Reds swept four straight to 
the 1990 World Series. 
Although the rest of the world 
in a state of shock over the 
I pride myself on being on 
the few enlightened ones who 
"actually believed the Reds had a 
-chance.
I’ll admit I thought the possi­
bility of a sweep was about as 
¦'likely as the probability of me 
.getting a date with Julia Roberts, 
but I knew the Reds had a fight­
ing chance. Although it sort of 
resembles retroactive predictions, 
here’s why:
0Attitude — As pathetic as it 
sounds, the Reds had a winning 
attitude and the A’s didn’t. The 
Beds took the Series seriously 
while the A’s started swallowing 
all the hype. They decided that,
; since they were unbeatable, why 
bother putting forth any effort. 
By the time they got into gear, the 
Series was already over.
• Offensive philosophy—This is 
sort of a sidebar to attitude. It all 
^starts with the fundamental phi­
losophy of the teams’ offenses. 
£ The Reds have a team geared to 
^manufacturing runs while the A’s 
...trademark is sitting back and 
waiting for the big hits to come. In 
a short series between two teams 
that have never met before, the 
team that makes its own breaks 
is going to have a lot easier time. 
¦¦ • The pitching factor — The old 
"baseball philosophy is that good 
pitching beats good hitting. So 
how does this apply? Well, the A*s 
have a better and deeper pitching 
staff, but the Reds front six or 
seven are equally good, if not bet­
ter. Therefore, in the Series, the 
^A’s never got to slaughter 
^Cincinnati’s bad pitching. And 
Relieve me, they do have some 
terrible guys back there.
0Hot streaks—The bottom line 
«is that Cincinnati’s players played 
far over their various heads this 
week. Series MVP Jose Rijo has 
Haeen pitching like Cy Young since 
L^arly September; Joe Oliver woke 
from a four-month slump to 
,;knock a game-winning single 
^against Dennis Eckersley, the 
game’s best reliever; and of course 
they had Billy Hatcher, too. What 
can you possibly do against a guy 
who decides he’s going to hit .850?
Menawhile, for the A’s, Jose 
. Canseco played poorly enough to 
•get benched, and shortstop Walt 
‘-•Weiss was injured, forcing the 
r^Green Machine to play Mike 
•Gallego, who is, putting it po­
litely, a weak hitter.
'The bench factor — 
Cincinnati’s backups were ca­
pable players; a couple could 
Probably start for other teams. 
Oakland has a couple stars and a 
bunch of idiots. In the close games, 
the A’s were destined to be 
outgunned.
There’s probably a mile-long list 
of other small reasons I could go 
mt°, but it probably wouldn’t be 
worth the trouble. The Series is
one so we’ll just have to wait 
until next year. Besides, Julia 
should be calling any minute.
Tartan Assistant Sports Editor
o.son McDonald is a junior ma­
joring in industrial management.
Alex Patho, Jr./Tartan Staff Photographer 
Senior wide receiver Don DeCaro threads his way through the Wooster 
defense Saturday as the Tartans barrelled to a 47-22 win.
By JUDY GROSSMAN
Tartan Staffwriter
Despite having the flu and not 
practicing all week, Tartan quar­
terback Billy Snyder set the NCAA 
Division III single-game record 
for consecutive completions as the 
Tartans crushed the College of 
Wooster, 47-22. Snyder completed 
17 of 17 passes for 211 yards be­
fore leaving the game late in the 
third quarter.
“It feels good to get the record,” 
said Snyder. “I didn’t expect it to 
happen because I was sick all week 
and didn’t even practice until 
Friday. I just tried to concentrate 
and throw the ball where it needed 
to be thrown.”
“Billy made good decisions and 
he hit the open receivers. It was a 
great day for him,” said head coach 
Rich Lackner. “Hopefully he’ll get 
the flu bug again on Monday and 
he’ll do the same thing next week.”
Snyder wasn’t the only Tartan 
to rewrite the record books. Senior 
halfback Scott Barnyak, who has 
already broken the Tartans’ all- 
time rushing and scoring records,
sIiy kSnnS nrUC Boay raC woot nS 
na:o lakoC Sto an a nUko— Jo woan 
pSffolo S# JSSCnoy ate tSm moGVo 
lSn nran nS lon yoaeB #Sy 4otoVa to3n 
moo:— _
— S##otCUVo fUtokat boL Eoekat
notched one more record during 
Saturday’s win. Barnyak entered 
the game needing just seven 
points to break Bob Gasior’s single 
season scoring record. He scored 
24 points on the day to shatter 
Gasior’s record 90 and break the 
century mark at 108.
“I like accomplishing the 
records. It’s a nice feeling,” said 
Barnyak. “I think as long as ev­
erybody does their job, and the 
line plays as well as it’s been 
playing, those things will just 
happen.”
Barnyak scored the first Tar­
tan touchdown early in the first 
quarter. Snyder engineered an
1Sn -SnanS————
Phi Kap senior Tom Jennings moves in to protect sophomore quarterback Carmine Fantini from a Green Aces defender. Phi Kap and Green 
Aces battled it out in the intramural minors touch football semi-finals for a spot in the finals. Green Aces won the honor, defeating the Phi 
Kap A-team in a close one, winning 26-25. Phi Kap had a chance to come back for the win, but was unable to capitalize on a scoring 
opportunity late in the fourth quarter. Tonight, the Green Aces play KSA in the minors finals in Gosling Stadium at 8:30. See page 20 for 
the teams’ paths to the finals.
eleven-play, 76 yard drive to the 
Wooster one yardline. The drive 
was keyed by two sixteen-yard 
completions, the first to fullback 
Fran Bellante and the second to 
junior tight end Josh Hvizdos. 
Barnyak took it across to put the 
Tartans up 6-0 and Joe 
Schwerha’s extra point made the 
score 7-0 with 8:01 left in the 
quarter.
Wooster turned the ball over on 
its next possession. Defensive 
back John Fratto recovered a Tim 
Lyons fumble at the CMU 34 and 
the Tartan offense converted the 
turnover into its second touch- 
Please see FOOTBALL, page 17
CC teams 
make good 
showing at 
UAA finals
By DAN HOLLAND
Tartan Staffwriter
It was a perfect day for running 
last Saturday as the men’s and 
women’s cross country teams 
competed in the UAA Champion­
ships in Boston.
It was the men who ran first 
using Franklin Park’s hilly terrain 
to their advantage to finish third 
overall. They finished behind Di­
vision III powerhouses Roches­
ter, who won the meet, and run­
ner-up Brandeis University. Both 
are ranked nationally — third 
and fifth, repectively.
CMU was not even in the top 25 
going into the meet but managed 
to upend 24th ranked Washington 
University (St. Louis), who fin­
ished fifth. With 104 points, the 
Tartans edged out fourth place 
Emory University with 108 
points.
The first Tartans to cross the 
finish line were all seniors. Tim 
Berger led the team charge and 
placed 12th overall, with a time of 
28:15. Gary Harrison finished 
with a strong kick in 17th place 
and a time of28:35. Dan Holland, 
the third senior was 25th in 29:03. 
Following close behind were 
sophomores Brad Shapiro in 26th 
place and Scott Phillips in 27th 
place, and junior John Byrnes 
Please see UAA, page 14
Soccer suffers 2-1 loss in 
overtime to Swarthmore
By JASON McDONALD
Tartan Assistant Sports Editor
The Carnegie Mellon men’s soccer team lost its 
second overtime decision of the year, and its 
fourth game of the season Saturday, losing to 
Swarthmore College, 2—1.
“I thought we were the better team,” said junior 
midfielder Rob Schaeffer, “but it just didn’t show 
up that way on the scoreboard.”
The Tartans came into the second half trailing 
1-0, but had the momentum in the contest. Ac­
cording to Schaeffer, “It was like the Bethany 
game in reverse. The way Bethany pounded on us 
was the way we pounded on them [Swarthmore] 
in the second half.”
However, CMLFs aggressive offensive style came 
up empty until the final moments of play when 
junior Alan Horn scored off of a comer kick. The 
Tartans’ second chance lasted until the second 
half, when a Swarthmore goal iced the game.
“They were an average team,” said sophomore 
back J.R. Yakubisin. ‘They were good in the air 
and good on defense, but all their players were 
kind of the same. There weren’t any individuals 
who were really impressive.”
The loss at Swarthmore came on the heels of a 
2-1 home victory against the University of Pitts­
burgh. The game was especially important to the 
team because of the crosstown rivalry involved.
“I know a lot of players just want to play hard 
and do well against them,” said Schaeffer. “It was 
also a big game because we showed that we can 
beat a Division I team.”
“We were.excited just because it’s Pitt, and 
they’re right down the street,” added Yakubisin.
Carnegie Mellon’s excitement carried over to 
the field early on in the game. The Tartans scored 
the only goal of the first half off of a corner kick; 
freshman Min Chong headed the ball into the 
corner of the net for the 1-0 Tartan lead.
Please see SOCCER, page 14
Jason Digman/Tartan Senior Darkroom Technician 
CMU junior Young Kang steers the ball away from the Pitt defenders.

---------------------------------------------------

14The Tartan • Carnegie Mellon • 22 October 1990
Men’s, women’s cross country make good showing at UAAs
UAA, from page 13
finishing in 28th place. Fresh­
man Ryan Kammerer, running 
on an injured leg, came in 43rd in 
the 78-man race. Junior Jon 
Frieder cut his thigh on a course 
marker and did not finish, but 
was in good condition after the 
race.
Head Coach Gary Meckley was 
pleased with his team. “At the 
beginning of the season, I didn’t 
think we could place third,” he 
said. “But this team is running 
more to its potential than any 
team I have coached recently.”
Meckley encourages his team 
to run a smart race and not lead 
from the gun. “Our team does not 
have many front runners so I want 
them to run intelligently. That is
just what they did,” he said. “The 
UAA meet was an intelligent, tac­
tical race and I am happy with the 
team’s performance.”
Meckley is still looking to sur­
prise some teams at the North­
east Regional Championships. 
CMU is currently ranked eighth 
in the region, but Meckley and his 
team feel confident that they can 
upset the rankings. The men 
have one more race, a 5K this 
Saturday at the Schenley Oval, 
before the regional meet on No­
vember 11th.
The CMU women raced to a 
fifth place finish with 116 points 
behind top ranked teams like 
Washington University, who won 
the UAA meet and is ranked 13th 
in the nation.
That did not stop junior Carolyn 
Lowe, who has been having a 
highly successful year, from fin­
ishing second overall in 22:26.
Senior Kristin Burgard came in 
14th, followed by sophomore 
Laura Sibley in 23rd place, 
freshman Megan Greig in 33rd, 
and senior Sue Sparks in 44th 
place.
The next three Tartans to follow 
were Junior Lois Raska in 47th 
place, freshman Cynthia 
Kolanowski in 55th, and junior 
Emily Burke in 57th out of the 71 
women from nine different schools 
who ran the race.
Despite the successes of the men 
and women at the UAA meet, all 
was not perfect on the course. 
Most of the men felt that the times
shro v,, koon maC at UtnoffUlotng 
na9nU9af ya9o———— _
— xotGC 1oae pSa9r 4ayB xo9:foB
were slow for an 8000-meter race. 
In fact, no one was quite sure how 
long the course was.
For the women’s race, however, 
it was a fiasco. A lack of markings 
and poor directions led the run­
ners on an extra loop which none 
of the runners needed. An inexpe­
rienced course marshall led the 
women around a loop without a 
turn-around point and into some 
woods, far off the official course. 
They ended up running an ap­
proximate 3.7 mile race, rather
than the official 3.1 mile distance.
Women’s Head Coach Dario 
Donatelli expressed his frustra­
tion with the organization of the 
race. “Before the race started, we 
were told three different direc­
tions by three different people,” 
he said. “By the time the women 
got out on the course, it was hard 
to judge where to make a move or 
how to run the next mile.”
Knowing the Gourse is key to 
race tactics. Unfortunately, with 
a misguided course, the women
Soccer beats Pitt in 
crosstown match-up
SOCCER, from page 13
second Tartan goal on a Pitt 
miscue. Horn lofted a free kick 
that went through the goal 
keeper’s hands, and Schaeffer 
tapped home the loose ball. Pitt 
scored a late goal but CMU was 
able to hold on down the stretch.
In the only University Athletic 
Association action of the last two 
weeks, CMU lost a 3-1 decision to 
Washington University. The 
Bears exploded late in the first 
half with a pair of goals and held 
the Tartans down the stretch. 
Junior Young Kang, the team’s 
leading scorer, had the only Tar­
tan goal.
Kang scored on a comer kick 
halfway through the second half, 
but Washington added a late goal 
to seal the victory.
The Tartans also padded their 
record with a 8-0 drubbing of 
Point Park College last Thurs­
day. Prior to the game, Tartan 
coach Nick Gaudioso felt that 
Point Park “wouldn’t even be as
sJo moyo o39Unoe 
7iCn wo9aiCo UnGC 
-Unng ate nroBGyo 
yUlrn eSmt nro 
Cnyoon— _
— CSArSkSyo 
>— E— Qa:iwUCUt
hard as W&J” who the Tartans 
beat 7-0 earlier in the season.
The Tartans enter the last two 
weeks of the season with a 9-4 
overall record, including a 4-3 
UAA mark. The remainder of the 
team’s season consists of a game 
at Grove City tomorrow, 
Thursday’s final home game 
against Geneva College, and a 
final UAA match against the 
University of Chicago on Novem­
ber 3. Thursday’s game will start 
at 7:30 pm.
silP
Jason Digman/Tartan Senior Darkroom Technician 
CMU’s sophomore Steve Gardner (2) and junior Rob Schaeffer (7) engineer a pass past the feet of a Pitt 
defender. The Tartans defeated the Panthers 2-1. Saturday, CMU was edged out by Swarthmore in overtime.
NHL division rivalries heat up; Philadelphia is hot
After the first three weeks of 
the 1990-91 NHL Season, there 
have been few surprises. Most of 
the divisional rivalries are heat­
ing up as expected.
The New York Rangers and the 
New Jersey Devils are currently 
fighting for the top spot in the 
Patrick Division. They face an 
unexpected challenge from the 
Philadelphia Flyers who seem to 
be a rejuvenated team after last 
year’s dismal finish.
Last week, the Flyers suffered 
a deep emotional tragedy. RW 
Tim Kerr’s wife passed away due 
to complications resulting from
o Jura ,
..
THE PUCK 
STOPS HERE
by Allan Bourdius
childbirth. Tim, the NHL and all 
hockey fans reach out our hearts 
to you.
Two major current stories be­
long to the Los Angeles Kings.
First, they currently possess the 
best record in the NHL — some­
thing nobody expected them to 
do.
Granted, it is still very early, 
but their record (5-1—1,12 points 
as of October 17) is impressive. 
Second, Wayne Gretzky is rapidly 
approaching the 2,000 career 
point mark. He is already the all- 
time NHL leading scorer but 
2,000-plus points is a achieve­
ment that not many others will 
ever attain.
In other hockey news, the de­
bate over league expansion has 
picked up speed as the first of
three new teams prepares to be­
gin play in San Francisco next 
season. Milwaukee withdrew its 
bid for an expansion team, re­
portedly because of pressure ex­
erted by Chicago Blackhawks 
owner William Wirtz. One team 
will be added to the league every 
year for the next three to round- 
out all four divisions at six teams 
each.
Voting for the NHL All-Star 
game to be played on January 19 
in Chicago has begun. Sadly, 
there is one important name left 
off the ballot. New Jersey Devils’ 
Captain LW Kirk Muller was the
highest scoring left wing in the 
Wales Conference last season (30 
goals, 56 assists, 86 points) and 
yet his name was omitted. He 
also exhibited superior endurance 
by playing in all 80 regular-sea- 
son games. Muller is definitely 
one of the NHL’s best and deserves 
to be voted a starter for the All- 
Star Game.
That about wraps up the league 
for now. As the season continues, 
play will only get tougher, faster, 
and infinitely more exciting.
Allan Bourdius is a sophomore 
Applied History major.
were psychologically disoriented 
and had to make their moves late 
into the race.
Nevertheless, Donatelli thought 
that many of his runners ran well.
“I was real happy with Carolyn’s 
race. She would have been closer 
to the first mnner if she had 
known the course. I was also 
surprised with Megan’s perfor­
mance because she has not run a 
race in five weeks.”
Donatelli hopes his team can 
tighten up its lead pack and run a 
strong race at the Northeast Re­
gional Championships on No­
vember 11. “I feel we can place in 
the top six or seven, and have 
Carolyn qualify for the National 
Championships,” which will be 
held the week after Regionals.
Lacrosse 
falls short 
in tourney
By STEPHEN KANG
Tartan Staffwriter
Saturday and Sunday, the 
CMU lacrosse team travelled to 
West Virginia for a 13-team 
Mountaineer Invitational La­
crosse Tournament.
CMU played three games on 
Saturday, defeating Ohio Uni­
versity and West Virginia and 
losing to a very tough Maryland 
Glyndon team.
In the morning, when the tem­
perature was still below 50 de­
grees, CMU clashed with Ohio 
University on a muddy field. 
Running its new offense, ironi­
cally named its Ohio offense, CMU - 
scored the first three goals. In the 
end CMU won by the score of 9-2. "
Scoring his career high, Rob 
Kendall put in six goals. Todd 
Bredbenner, Bayard Johnson, and 
John Seekings all helped, each 
scoring a goal.
In the second game, CMU met 
the Glyndon team from Maryland. 
Despite playing its starting de­
fense the whole game, Carnegie 
Mellon seemed overmatched 
against an experienced Glyndon 
team. CMU eventually lost 14-5. 
The team from Maryland ran its 
offense to perfection, catching 
Carnegie Mellon by surprise. 
They scored nine goals in the first 
half taking the CMU team out of 
its regular game plan.
Nevertheless, CMU came back 
strong, beating the favored West 
Virginia Old Boys in the third 
game of the day by the score of 7-
1. Peter Vonderlieth and the de­
fense played an awesome defen-
One 14” One Item Pizza
only
$5.00
FOUR STAR 
PIZZA
Fast Free Delivery
10 Minute Pick Up Service
PRICES SUBJECT TO APPLICABLE SALES TAX683-0400
4740 BAUM BLVD. «OAKLAND
• BINDING
• CHARGE ACCOUNTS
• COLOR COPIES
• COLOR SLIDE ENLARGEMENTS
• CUTTING
• DELIVERY AVAILABLE
• DRILLING
• FAX SERVICE
• FOLDING
• FULL COLOR ENLARGEMENTS
• LAMINATING
• MAILING LABELS
• NEGATIVE FILM ENLARGEMENT
• PADDING
• RESUMES
• SPECIALTY PAPERS
• TRANSPARENCIES
Skibo next to the University Printing Wean Hall
Carnegie Shoppe Building F BOM Room 4603
268-2155 268-2970 268-3729
8:30 a.m.-5 p.m. 8:30 a.m.-5 p.m. 8:30 a.m.-5 p.m. M T
8:30 a.m.-7 p.m. WTH F 
All services not available at all locations
Mellon Institute
Ml Room 349
268-5114
8:30 a.m.-5 p.m.

---------------------------------------------------

My Place on Carson
PASTA • STIR-FRY • SANDWICHES
BEER • WINE • SPIRITS
come- andoar relaxed atm osphare, 
in Pitfciuf-p/is Ltforic Souit Side*
2017 E. Carson- South Side431-9290
APPLICATIONS
majors, double majors, and minors 
in
Industrial Management and 
Economics
sueStdn wiBroa wyyl 
kCMU rlo
ALL MATH AND MATH/CS MAJORS 
PREREGISTRATION FOR SPRING 1991
To avoid long lines, the Math Dept, is preregistering Math and Math/CS Majors only on November 1 and 2, from 8:30 am - 4 pm.
Please see your advisor or Dr. Russ Walker to approve your courses on the form to be found in the Spring 1991 
Schedule Book before coming to sign up for classes. It is 
to your advantage that you come in to avoid lines.
The Math Dept, will register all others and any Math 
major who did not make November 1 and 2 
preregistration on the Registrar’s specified dates.
SENIORS: Please stop in the Math Dept, before the end 
of the semester to have requirements checked for 
graduation.
The Tartan • Carnegie Mellon • 22 October 1990
Thomas Nichols/Tartan Senior Photographer 
E grad student Roland Schaeffer leaps for a catch against West Virginia University Saturday on the Cut.
MU Ultimate Frisbee downs WVU, 15-7
[By JASON McDONALD
rtan Assistant Sports Editor
Mr. Yuk, Carnegie Mellon’s 
ben’s ultimate frisbee team, 
¡moved within one game of .500 
with a 15-7 win against a tough 
¡West Virginia club. Mr. Yuk 
.ggled early in the match, but 
[led away after halffcime to coast 
¡to victory.
The season has been going well 
[or Mr. Yuk, despite a rough start. 
FA 2-3 performance in a season- 
ening tournament at Haverford 
: was followed by an 0-4 
park at Penn State University, 
lowever, Mr. Yuk came back 
•ong with a 3-1 record at St. 
ary’s in Maryland two weeks 
;o.
; Last week, Mr. Yuk had a 4-3 
showing at the Ultimate Players
Association Sectional Tourna­
ment in Delaware. The tourna­
ment field was open to all teams 
in Pennsylvania and New Jersey.
Although Mr. Yuk’s perfor­
mance was second-best among 
college teams and earned the team 
a berth in the Mid-Atlantic Re­
gional, the team decided not to 
participate because the tourna­
ment was being held in North 
Carolina.
Saturday’s contest against West 
Virginia showcased both 1990 
versions of Mr. Yuk. The teams 
battled evenly through the first 
third of the game, with Mr. Yuk 
holding a 5-4 lead, but senior 
captain Scott Quarles was not 
pleased with the team’s early 
performance.
“I’m not really sure what was 
wrong with us,” he said. “We
played real well last week, but we 
looked a little tight today.”
West Virginia took a timeout, 
but Mr. Yuk came back as the 
more refreshed team, scoring the 
next three points of the game for 
an 8-4 halftime lead. The teams 
traded points after the half, 
leading up to a 10—7 CMU lead. 
At that point, Mr. Yuk clamped 
down and scored five unanswered 
points to win the game.
“We played them last year, and 
they're definitely an improved 
team,” said Quarles, “but I still 
don’t think we should have had 
this tough a time with them.” 
The game was Mr. Yuk’s only 
home contest this season; Quarles 
cited lack of adequate space as 
the major factor.
“A regular ultimate field is 
about 70 yards between end
zones,” said Quarles. “This one 
[the Cut] is only around 45.” 
“Single games aren’t common; 
tournaments are more the stan­
dard,” he added. “To hold a tour­
nament, we’d need space for five 
games to be played simulta­
neously, and we just don’t have 
that now.”
With winter approaching, Mr. 
Yuk’s club season will be winding 
down, but the team members will 
definitely be keeping busy. Ac­
cording to Quarles, the team will 
continue, practicing outside “un­
til discs start to crack.” The team 
will move indoor for the winter, so 
that they can prepare for the 
spring college season.
“I think we’ve got a very good 
shot at nationals this spring,” said 
Quarles. “We’re definitely an im­
proved team.”
Cincinnati stuns 
Oakland in clean 
sweep of Series
By KATIE 
CULBERTSON
Tartan Sports Editor
Last week, before 
the start of the 1990 
World Series, the 
baseball community 
was wondering how 
National League 
champions Cincinnati 
Reds were going to 
fend off the seemingly 
unstoppable Oakland 
A’s.
But Saturday night 
before Game Four of 
the Series, they were 
wondering if the A’s 
would be able to win four games 
in a row. Oakland could not even 
win one, as the Reds made a clean 
sweep of the Series, finishing off 
the A’s Saturday night in Game 
Four.
After the A’s clobbered the Bos­
ton Red Sox in the American 
League playoffs, it seemed 
Oakland’s unshakable defense 
and explosive offense would carry 
them to their second World Series 
title in as many years.
The Series seemed especially in 
the bag after the Reds, although 
disposing of the Pirates pretty 
handily, still did not clinch their 
pennant as easily and fluidly as 
Oakland.
But the Reds proved to the Ath­
letics that they were not the in­
vincible giant, and indeed David 
could prevail over Goliath.
With the .850 hitting of out­
fielder Billy Hatcher, a pair of 
home runs from third baseman 
Chris Sabo, and steady, depend­
able pitching, the A’s were dimin­
ished from unstoppable to incom­
petent.
Cincinnati took a convincing 
lead in the Series opener last 
Tuesday at home, shutting out 
Oakland and its stale pitching. 
The Reds trounced over starter 
Dave Stewart and reliever Den­
nis Eckersley at Riverfront Sta­
dium. Eventual Series MVP Jose 
Rijo held the Athletics to no runs, 
as the Reds cruised to a 8-0 win.
Wednesday, again at 
Riverfront, Bob Welch and Danny 
Jackson squared off. The A’s 
stayed alive into the ninth, tied at 
four, and forced a tenth inning. 
But the Reds did not take long to 
seal up Game Two.
With two on in the bottom of the
tenth, catcher Joe Oliver bounced 
one past A’s third baseman 
Carney Lansford on a 0-2 count 
to drive home pinch runner Billy 
Bates, giving Cincinnati a 5-4 
win, and a 2-0 lead before travel­
ing to Oakland.
Oakland, counting on some help 
from the hometown fans and vet­
eran pitcher Mike Moore, was 
soon disappointed, embarrassed 
at Oakland Coliseum 8-3.
zin nro EoeC 
AySVoe nS nro ,nrR
fonU9C nran nroB 
moyo tSn nro UtVUtR
9Uwfo lUatn, ate 
Uteooe baVUe 
9Sife AyoVaUf SVoy 
4SfUanr.__________
Desperate, and trailing 3-0, 
Tony LaRussa and the A’s started 
grasping at straws. LaRussa 
yanked Jose Canseco and plopped 
him on the bench, in favor of Willie 
McGee in right field.
Dave Stewart, on three days 
rest, was the A’s only hope. It 
seemed that Game Five would be 
played, as the A’s led through the 
seventh 1-0.
But after seven, a frustrated 
Rijo left the mound and fired up 
the dugout. The Reds delivered, 
scoring two runs in the eighth. 
Holding the A’s in the ninth, Cin­
cinnati quickly landed three outs, 
and the World Series, in front of a 
somber and stunned Oakland 
crowd.

---------------------------------------------------

16The Tartan • Carnegie Mellon • 22 October 1990
Dickerson returns to Indy; Bo should lock AFC West for Raiders
Last week, the National Foot­
ball League disproved specula­
tions that reduced length in games 
would reduce points scored. In 
seven games out of week six’s 
twelve games, NFL teams have 
scored more than 30 points, with 
three teams scoring more than 40 
points.
San Francisco started shakily, 
which is becoming normal, 
against an enthusiastic Atlanta, 
but the 49ers won easily, 45-35. 
Kansas City struggled early 
' against Detroit as well, but came 
up smiling 43-24. And Houston’s 
“red gun” offense found its artil­
lery, firing 48 points Cincinnati’s 
way, attempting in part to seek 
vengeance for a 61-7 humiliation 
last year.
And over the past two weeks, 
the Pittsburgh Steelers have
NFL NEWS
by Dave Martin
found the answer to their offen­
sive troubles in tight end Eric 
Green. The rookie holdout has 
caught three touchdowns in five 
receptions in the last two weeks, 
hoping to continue his streak into 
yesterday’s week seven.
It appears that Indianapolis 
may find solace in this year after 
all. Heading into week six, its 
week off, the Colts took two wins 
from unsuspecting Philadelphia 
and Kansas City, and are looking
forward to a bright future with 
Eric Dickerson in the backfield. 
Dickerson has just signed a four- 
year contract with the Colts.
The “new” addition probably 
won’t have an effect on the Colts 
for a few weeks. After that ges­
tation period, though, with pa­
tience and a few kind words from 
management, the Raceway city’s 
Colts could push Buffalo and Mi­
ami, but don’t look for dramatic 
changes in the AFC East anytime 
real soon.
Yesterday marked the return 
of Bo to the world of football. 
Leaving behind the weakening 
Kansas City Royals, Bo Jackson 
ran for the rejuvenated Raiders. 
Behind a Bo-bolstered offense, the 
Raiders should strengthen their 
death grip on the AFC West, 
threatened only by the Kansas
zorUte a zS5wSfCnoyoe S##otCog nro 
EaUeoyC CrSife Cnyotlnrot nroUy eoanr 
lyUA St nro ,cp JoCng nryoanotoe 
StfB wB nro 0atCaC pUnB prUo#C—
City Chiefs.
Tonight, Ohio becomes a battle 
ground for the two intra-state ri­
vals, Cincinnati and Cleveland. 
Both cities are more interested in 
the World Series, but the war for 
Cincinnati transfers to football 
for one night. It should look simi­
lar to the Reds first game against 
the A’s, only in higher point to­
tals. Take the Bengals 38-14 over 
the Browns.
These are my predictions for 
Sunday: Buffalo should struggle
early against the Patriots, but 
eventually triumph by about 10. 
Chicago should win big over 
Phoenix — by 17. San Francisco 
will defeat Cleveland easily, but 
not too easily, by 14. Detroit over 
the Saints by 10, Miami over In­
dianapolis by 21, Green Bay over 
struggling Minnesota by four. 
Houston should obliterate the 
Jets, but probably won’t—Hous­
ton by seven. Philadelphia will be 
in a tug-of-war with Dallas in 
Irving — Eagles by two. San Di­
National Scoreboard
NATIONAL FOOTBALL LEAGUE
Miami 17, New England 10 
NY Giants 20, Phoenix 17 
San Francisco 27, Pittsburgh 7 
Washington 13, Philadelphia 7 
LA Raiders 24, San Diego 9 
Dallas 17, Tampa 13 
Houston 23, New Orleans 10 
Buffalo 30, NY Jets 27
Denver 27, Indianapolis 17 
LA Rams 44, Atlanta 24 
Seattle 19, Kansas City 7
Tonight: Cincinnati plays at Cleve­
land, at 9 pm on ABC.
Football scores courtesy of WRCT 
AP wire.
MAJOR LEAGUE BASEBALL 
WORLD SERIES
Oakland vs. Cincinnati
Game One: 8-0, Cinicinnatl 
Game Two: 5-4, Cincinnati 
Game Three: 8-3, Cincinnati 
Game Four: 2-1, Cincinnati
football soccer basketball field hockey tennis cross country baseball crew rugby ice hockey golf 
ultimate frisbee lacrosse football soccer basketball field hockey tennis cross country baseball crew 
rugby ice hockey ¿BIWTHtmate frisjfe lacrosse footbiwthiccer basketball fieM.hockey tennis cross 
country baseball creM ru&k basketball field
hockey tennis cross wmi i&'JL icelkuJleymeq MtiMaJLfrtcrosse football
soccer basketball field hockey tennis cross country basebaltcrew rugby ice hockey golf ultimate 
frisbee lacrosse football soccer basketball field hbckey tennis cross country baseball crew rugby ice 
hockey golf ultimate frisbee lacrosse football soccer basketball field hockey tennis cross country 
baseball crew rugby ice hockey golf ultimate frisbee lacrosse football soccer basketball field hockey 
tennis cross country baseball crew rugby ice hockey golf ultimate frisbee 1‘acrosse football soccer 
basketball field hockey tennis cross country baseball crew rugby ice hockey golf ultimate frisbee
DropbySkibo 50 or callx2111 and ask for Katie or Jason.
ego at home will upset Tampat, 
Bay by three.
Atlanta’s coach Jerry Glanvilli 
has a few scores to settle with 
Cincinnati coach Sam Wyphe 
particularly the aforementioned 
blowout over then Glanville. 
coached Houston. Look for the 
Falcons to hit hard and late, and i 
to win by seven.
Finally, the rematch between 
the New York Giants and the 
Washington Redskins. Just two 
weeks ago I predicted a 34mo 
Giants victory in Washington. The 
Giants won 24—20. I’ll take the 
Giants again at home, this time 
little larger margin, but a lowei 
score, 17—10. That’s it this week. 
Tune in next week for “Dave gets 
to make a lot of predictions andbt 
wrong some more.”
Dave Martin is a freshman psy.
nhnlnny mnjnr
Lacrosse falls short in tournament
LACROSSE, from page 14
sive game, completely shutting 
down the Old Boy’s offense al­
lowing them only one goal in 
the whole game.
The CMU team, exhausted 
from playing three games on 
Saturday, made the final eight 
team cut. Saturday’s effort came 
from many different players fi­
nally bringing the team to­
gether for the upcoming spring 
season.
On Sunday, Carnegie Mellon 
returned to West Virginia for 
the quarter final game against 
the West Virginia Mountain­
eers. With the home crowd 
backingthem up, West Virginia 
played a tight defense, making 
many late hits.
Even though CMU team made 
many pleas to the refrees, the 
game got uglier as it went into
,fnrSilr pxv rae rUlr rSAoC S# 
mUttUtl———— nro noak CnUff CrSmoe UnC 
Cnyotlnr wB ka:Utl Un nS nro #UtafC— ¦
the second half with CMU up by 
3-2. The game soon turned into a 
heavy hitting match with each 
team playing very physically.
West Virginia seemed to get the 
favorable calls finally pulling out 
the win by 4-3 eliminating the 
CMU from the tournament. Al­
though CMU had high hopes of 
winningthe tournament, the team 
still showed its strength by 
making it to the finals.
Some of the highlights were on 
Saturday when John Seekings 
scored four consecutive goals 
against the Old Boys in the first
quarter and Bayard Johns3n 
scored two goals on one on ofie 
siuations.
Also helping the team were 
Steve Ramey, Bryan Keiser, and 
Rick Keiser each as a middie 
giving a strong defensive and 
offensive plays throughout the 
tournament. The CMU team 
managed to find how good they 
were in the tournament testing, 
themselves against some of the 
best teams. Carnegie Mellon 
will play Frostburg in the up­
coming weekend at home as the 
final game of fall season.
Together, we can change the fece of banking
If you’re looking for an opportunity to become an integral member of a very special team, we’re looking for you.Quite simply First Banks’ Elec­tronic Banking Division and Infor­mation Services Di­vision are dedicated to defining the lead­ing edge of banking in the 90’s.And we’re seek­ing a select corps of highly motivated MBA graduates to grow along with us.For more infor­mation, please join us for a reception/ presentation on October 29,1990 from 12:30 p.m. to 1:30 p.m. in the Masters Auditorium. RSVP in Carnegie- Mellon’s Career Opportunity Center.
# First Banks
Members First Bank System

---------------------------------------------------

The Tartan • Carnegie Mellon • 22 October 199017
Football 
topples 
Wooster
FOOTBALL, from page 13
down of the game.
Snyder brought the Tartans 
p°down to the Wooster 20. On third 
d one, he found Hvizdos for a 
gain of 15 yards and a first down 
to the five yardline. A facemask 
penalty against Wooster put the 
ball inside the Wooster three. On 
first and goal, Bamyak took the 
tall in for his second touchdown 
«of the game to surpass Gasior’s 
record and put the Tartans up 
13-0.
The quarter ended with the 
score 13-0. Wooster’s offense 
managed just 62 total yards in 
the first quarter, while the Tar­
tans gained an impressive 158, 
including 70 yards through the 
air.
The Tartans scored again on 
their first possession of the second 
Quarter, taking the ball 45 yards
in 11 HEARTNB A Irov f/vnr-varrl rnn 
by Snyder on fourth-and-one from 
the Wooster six kept the drive 
Relive and on the next play, 
•Bamyak took the ball in for his 
„third touchdown to put the Tar­
tans up 18—0 with 6:35 left to go in 
,the half.
nH The Fighting Scots continued 
„to have problems offensively. 
hSacks and key penalties stalled 
6wo Wooster drives, and the Tar- 
•tans took over with excellent field 
position at their own 40. Snyder 
.completed three consecutive 
passes, including a sixteen-yarder 
rto fullback Greg Marmol, to give 
4he Tartans first and 10 at the 
Wooster 26. On the next play, 
Snyder hit a wide open Don
Senior linebacker Chris Balouris chases down the Wooster ball carrier
s————mo eUe ka:o kUCna:oC nran u eStGn 
nrUt: mo 9at ka:o alaUtCn a nSilroy 
SAAStotn— JoGVo lSn nS :ooA nrSCo 
kUCna:oC eSmt nS a kUtUkik— _
— 1oae pSa9r EU9r Na9:toy
DeCaro for the fourth Tartan 
touchdown of the game. 
Schwerha’s extra point made the 
score 26-0 with 1:06 remaining.
But Wooster managed to avoid 
a first-half shutout. The Fighting 
Scots took over at their own 42 
after Schwerha’s kickoff. Working 
out of the hurry-up offense, they 
put together their most impresive 
drive of the half, moving the ball 
58 yards in eight plays. Quarter­
back Vic Rowcliffe hit tailback 
Brian Grandison for nine yards 
and threw two 11-yard strikes to
Allied Health 
Professionals & 
Administrators
Discover a challenging 
future with opportunities to 
advance. Serve your country 
while you serve your career with:
• great pay and benefits
• normal working hours
• complete medical and dental 
care
• 30 days vacation with pay per 
year
Find out how to qualify as an Air 
Force professional. Call
USAF HEALTH PROFESSIONS 
412-687-7313
receiver Phil Puryear, to give the 
Scots first-and-ten at the Tartan 
27.
Three consecutive incomplete 
passes made it fourth-and-10. 
Rowcliffe ran for a gain of one 
yard on fourth down, but a 
facemask penalty against the 
Tartans gave the Scots first-and-
10 at the Tartan 13 yardline.
Although time had expired, 
NCAA rules stipulate that the 
half cannot end on a defensive 
penalty. So the Scots had a free 
shot at the end zone, and Rowcliffe 
capitalized, connecting with 
Puryear for a thirteen-yard 
touchdown.
Rowcliffe hit Grandison for the 
two-point conversion and the half 
ended with the score CMU 26, 
Wooster 8.
The Tartans completely domi­
nated the first half, gaining 312 
total yards to Wooster’s 112. The 
Tartan defense held Wooster to 
just 19 yards rushing on 15 car­
ries. The most telling statistic was 
that the Tartans did not punt 
once the entire half.
The Tartans came out running 
to start the second half. Eight 
consecutive rushing plays by 
Bellante, Bamyak and Snyder 
brought the ball down to the 
Wooster 7.
From there, Bamyak took the 
ball in for his fourth touchdown 
and Schwerha booted the extra 
point to give the Tartans a 33-8
Alex Patho, Jr./Tartan Staff Photogrpaher 
Saturday.
lead with 11:27 left in the third 
quarter.
“The holes were there and we 
just ran it straight ahead,” said 
Bellante. “We’re a running team 
mostly. We try to set up the pass 
with the run and we feel wp/ve got 
to run the ball to win.”
Wooster answered with a score 
of its own. Rowcliffe engineered a 
19-play, 69-yard drive that ate up 
nearly seven minutes off the clock. 
The key play came on an incom­
plete pass from Rowcliffe to 
Puryear.
CMU was whistled for pass in­
terference, giving Wooster first 
down at tlie Tartan 28. It took 12 
plays to put the ball in the end 
zone, but on third and goal from 
the one, Grandison rambled in 
and the Scots narrowed the gap to 
33-14.
Junior Sam Mangano stepped 
in at quarterback on CMU’s next 
possession, and scored the Tar­
tans’ sixth touchdown of the game. 
He ran the ball in from thirty- 
seven yards out to put the Tartans 
up 39-0. Schwerha’s extra point 
made it 40-14 with 2:46 left in the 
third quarter.
Linebacker Mike Hession re­
covered a Rowcliffe fumble less 
than a minute later, and Snyder 
came back into the game to lead 
the offense.
It was at this point that CMU’s 
coaching staffleamed that Snyder 
had a chance to break the record. 
Completions to Carson and 
Hvizdos moved Snyder within two 
of tying the record and moved the 
Tartans inside the Wooster five 
yardline.
“I wish they wouldn’t have told 
us about the record,” said Carson. 
“It put a lot of pressure on us and 
when they announced it over the 
loudspeaker, it. put even more 
pressure on us. We really wanted
Alex Patho, Jr./Tartan Staff Photogrpaher 
A Wooster defender tackles junior halfback Andrew Pizurro. The 
Tartans rolled over Wooster to their seventh win this season.
Billy to get it, so we made an 
extra effort to hold on to the ball.”
“It was really a team effort in 
receiving,” said DeCaro, who 
caught the record-breaking pass 
midway through the fourth quar­
ter. “Billy did an excellent job 
today and all the receivers made 
nice catches.”
Less than twenty seconds into 
the fourth quarter, halfback Drew 
Pizzuro carried the ball in from 
two yards out and Schwerha 
converted on the PAT to give the 
Tartans a 47—14 lead.
Rowcliffe connected with Scott 
McMillen for 35 yards and 
Wooster’s third touchdown of the 
game. The touchdown capped off 
a seven-play, 77-yard drive, and a 
two-point conversion made the 
final score closer, at 47-22.
Although it was a big win for 
the Tartans, they were dealt a 
hard blow when defensive line­
man Jim Rose went down with an 
ankle injury in the second half. 
Rose was taken to the hospital for 
x-rays and, facing surgery, he 
could possibly miss the rest of the 
season.
The Tartans are now 7-0 head­
ing into this Saturday’s matchup 
with Geneva College. Last week­
end, the Tartans hosted Grove 
City and came away with a con­
vincing 49-21 win. The offense 
racked up 470 total yards while 
the defense held the Wolverines 
to 201 yards. Bamyak led the 
Tartans with 93 yards and three 
touchdowns, while Snyder threw 
for 120 yards and ran for a 
touchdown. Mangano, Marmol 
and Griffen Pero rushed for the 
other three Tartan scores.
“It’s a great feeling to be 7-0,” 
said offensive lineman Dez 
Redman. “But we can’t look into 
the future. Our motto this year 
has been to take games one at a 
time. We beat Wooster and now 
we’ve got that to get ready for 
Geneva next week.”
“It was a hard, physical game,” 
said Lackner. “But we did make 
mistakes that I don’t think we 
can make against a tougher op­
ponent. We’ve got to keep those 
mistakes down to a minimum.” 
Saturday’s game with Geneva 
marks the last home game of the 
year for the Tartans. The team 
hits the road to take on Coast 
Guard Academy on November 3, 
and in two weeks, they play the 
season finale at Case Western 
Reserve. All games start at 1:30.
Carol Peluso Costume Shop #3 
115 Meyran Avenue 
683-9811
Masks. Wiss & Costumes 
Novelties and Make-up! 
Lowest Prices!!! 
Mon thru Friday: 10 to 5 pm Sat: 10 to 2HOW WOULD YOU GET FROM A 
12:05 CLASS IN NEW YORK 
TO A 1:45 LECTURE IN LA?
BNR. the research and development subsidiary of Northern Telecom, hos R4D lobs in Richordson. IX; Research Triangle Pari. NC; Atlanta. GA; Canodo ond the U.K. An equal opportunity employer.
Z$ d¡y¡
Even if you booked the Concorde, you still don’t stand 
much chance of getting across the 
country in less than an hour.
But with the innovations being 
developed at BNR you won't 
have to.
The fiber optic technology 
we're developing will enable students to attend classes 
being held across the country, or across the ocean. 
We're also at work on a range of other new tech
Digital cellular technology will enable peo­ple to exchange voice, dato, and video 
communications, complete with la* capabil­ities, no matter where they are.
nologies like digital cellular telephones, digital switching, 
PBX's, network development and software systems. 
And you can play an integral part in bringing 
these ideas to reality.
If your degree is in Engineering, Computer 
Science, Computer Engineering, Marketing, 
Finance, or Business Administration and you are 
looking for the type of opportunity where the 
challenges are as unlimited ß|\jp |p 
as your potential, talk to us. BaiTMtfrfUilWiaiManmiin
A single telecommunications network so powerful that it will allow hall the world's population to tali to one onother-oll of the some 
time.
WE WILL BE ON CAMPUS NOVEMBER 5th & 12th
The latest looks for 
him and her. Soft 
and shaped. Up­
dated. Now. Cuts 
that move with body 
and volume. Sophis­
ticated style from 
our experts.
OfficeSat 9-6
. &2.UU Oft
I On a Precision Haircut 1(complete with wash & styia) 
Expires 10/31/90 IL -^iisT.HAVE COUPON J
Free Hair Consultation Also Available:• Perms • Frosting• Conditioning • Coloring 
SATISFACTION GUARANTEED

---------------------------------------------------

Want to feel 
this great about your first job?
Ana Cruz Gonzalez 
Marketing 
Representative
Steve Czamecki 
Advisory Systems 
Engineer
Meet with IBM Managers at our Career Information Day
Tuesday, November 6 
Skibo Hall Ballroom 
Noon-5pm
There is no formal presentation, so feel free to stop by 
anytime during the event. Please bring 4 copies of your data 
sheet/resume and transcript, if available. Dress is casual.
An equal opportunity employer
Exdting opportunities 
exist at IBM!
IBM is recruiting 1990/91 graduates for 
openings in Programming, Engineering, 
Material Science, Technical Writing and 
Technical Sales (BS/MS).
John W. Webster 
Communications & Systems 
Management Designer

---------------------------------------------------

The Tartan • Carnegie Mellon • 22 October 199019
This Week
l Football. CMU and Geneva College at home, 
[l:30 pm, Gesling Stadium.
Women’s Volleyball. University Athletic Asso­
ciation Championships at Emory University.
Intramurals. Phi Kap and Theta Xi B play in 
minors tennis finals at 8 pm on the CMU courts. 
Green Aces and KSA play in minors touch football
i Gesling Stadium at 8:30 pm.
Soccer. CMU and Geneva College at home, 7:30 
pm, Gesling Stadium.
NFL. Tonight, Cincinnati at Cleveland, 9 pm, 
ABC.
NHL- Thursday, Penguins and Quebec at home.
Volleyball disappointed in weekend Classic
NHL Standings
PATRICK DIVISIONWLTPTS
New Jersey52111
Philadelphia52010
NY Rangers53010
Pittsburgh3317
Washington3506
NV Islanders2404
ADAMS DIVISION
Hartford43210
Boston4319
Montreal4319
Quebec2337
Buffalo0433
NORRIS DIVISION
Chicago53010
Detroit42210
St. Louis4308
Minnesota1513
Toronto0611
SMYTHE DIVISION
Los Angeles61113
Vancouver4308
balgary4308
Edmonton2226
Winnipeg2615
BY ALIM RAY
Tartan Copy Manager
Winning only one match and failing 
to make the playoffs, the Carnegie 
Mellon women’s volleyball team had a 
weekend it would like to forget, at the 
ninth annual North South Volleyball 
Classic held at Western Maryland Col­
lege.
Over the mid-semester break, the 
Tartans hosted their own tournament 
and played well, even though they 
placed third out of four teams. Monday, 
they lost to Seton Hill.
The North South classic started Fri­
day for Carnegie Mellon against the 
home team Western Maryland. The 
Tartans lost the best-of-three-game 
match in straight games 4—15, 9-15.
Carnegie Mellon had close matches
Tun maC a rikwfUtl moo:ote #Sy ko— _
— 1oae pSa9r prayfSnno cUCroy
against the next two teams—Bridge 
Water College and Moravian Col­
lege. CMU and Bridge Water split 
the first two games 11-15 (Bridge 
Water) and 15-11 (CMU). Bridge 
Water was able to take control of the 
last game and win 15-6.
Saturday afternoon, the Tartans 
played their closest match of the 
tournament against Moravian Col­
lege. CMU lost the first game 10—15 
but decisively won the second game 
15-7. The last game was close, with 
Moravian finishing on top 15-2.
The last opponent for Carnegie
Mellon was Methodist College, 
which fell easily to the Tartans 15- 
13,15-7. With a match record of 1- 
3 and a game record of 4—6, the 
Tartans were not able to qualify for 
the playoffs.
Head Coach Charlotte Fisher 
“thought we were the best team 
there, so it was a humbling week­
end for me.” She attributed the 
team’s play to mental breakdowns 
and the absence of sophomore 
Elizabeth Rowlands, who developed 
a third-degree sprain in her ankle 
after the Seton Hill match Monday
night. She is expected to return next 
weekend for the UAA Championships.
Fisher also commented, “It was al­
ways a struggle to keep momentum 
throughout the game.... [Our] determi­
nation and desire to win came too late.”
The only positive points Fisher noted 
in the tournament involved senior cap­
tain Nicole Hanak, whose playing was 
the most consistent of the team. Hanak 
was able to run a dozen quick hits with 
her setter, sophomore Lisa Devlin.
The Tartan Tournament held over the 
mid-semester break was a positive tour­
nament for CMU, despite the team’s 
placing. Fisher was pleased with her 
team. “We played real strong... took 
Trinity [first place team] and Rochester 
[second place team] to three games. So I 
wasn’t disappointed because I thought 
we held in there.”
UAA Standings
FOOTBALL
WLTPTS.OVERALL
CMU30066-0
Rochester22043-3
Case Reserve21023-3
Washington12024-3
Chicago03000-6
MEN’SSOCCER
wLIPTS.OVERALL
Rochester500109-3
Emory420810-5
Brandéis32066-9-1
CMU33068-3
Washington22049-4
Case Reserve13021-9
NYU03110-7-1
Chicago03110-8-1
IM Scoreboard
WATER POLO
MAJORS
Sperm Whales 
Sudsuckers 
USS Carnegie 
USS Mellon
MINORS
Ten Feet Under
Theta Xi
Green Aces
SAE
Zoo
CIA
Pika
SIX-PERSON VOLLEYBALL
Studen
Barcrawlers 
Mech. Eng. 
Networkers 
Spycho
The Blocks World 
KSA
tobotics A
INTERMEDIATE
OiyiSIONA 
Volleyball Club 
The Working Sets 
SAE A
High Bailers 
Lust 
inge A
|VISION B 
itworkers 
fleta Xi
jbotics 
Wombats From Hell 
¡telvin & the Hobs 
^arybelle C-Squad
JWSION C 
Beta
Six-Pack Attack 
Methletes BYOB 
felting Pot
KSA02Pilam B02
DIVISION DDIVISION E
0The Bumping Lemmas10 ,Phi Kap A10
0The West10Trojans A10
2USS Carnegie10Fringe B11
3ASA A-Team01Sudsuckers01
The Flintstones01Pioneers01
Pika A01
0DIVISION F
0MINORSKSA10
1Theta Xi10
1DIVISION ,4Jolly Rogers10
1Sig Tau Slammers20Sig Tau Hammers01
2CGSOl10SDG02
2Welchaholics11
Mathletes01DIVISION G
Tower of Mudge02Dragon Ball WTHM10
SAE B10
DIVISION BBlack Rain10
0USS Mellon10Mudge B-l01
0DTD A10Kristygasm Not02
0Pika B .00
0Remediators01DIVISION H
1Dynamite01CGS0210
1Pilam A10
1DIVISION CPhi Kap B11
Hedgehogs20Tudor Roaches01
SAE C20SDC01
Green Aces01
KDR01DIVISION 1
0Jack D. Gralps02Dream Team10
0A Phi 010
0DIVISION DDelta Gamma11
1ASA B-Team10DU A02
1Trojans B10
2Zoo A10Compiled by
Doherty Dinosaurs01JASON McDONALD
Binding Service
and colors. Offer applies to ipon per visit.kinko's
the copy center
Choose from our wide selection of cover styles and colors. Offer applies lo all types and sizes of binding available. One coupon per visit.
3710 Forbes^ 
3945 Forbes
Offer expires in 30 days.
,WWv,N ,hhup .,NO
Sunday, October 28, 10 am- 3 pm
TEMPLE SINAI___
j>505 Forbes Ave. Sq. Hill
Household Goods, Books, Records, Antiques, Linens, Small Applances, Clothing, 
urniture, Jewelry, Toys - Much More
GREAT VALUES - PRICED TO SELL 
________ QUICKLY
SPORTS IN SEASON
Touch Football
Commissioners
Majors — Rich Romeo, x8335
Intermediate — Eric Pfefferle,
441-7003
Minors — Sujit Bhattacharya, 
x4084
Women Only — Kris Pasqualin, 
x5978
Despite cold, rainy weather, the 
major, intermediate, and minor 
league semi-finals and the 
women-only championship game 
were held Thursday night. The 
other finals will be played tonight 
at Gesling Stadium. The results 
of Thursday’s games are:
Women-Only Championship 
AWFF 19, Delta Gamma 0 
Majors Semi-final 
Crunch Bunch 19, ATO 6 
Crunch Bunch will play Beta in 
the championship game (8:30 pm). 
Intermediate Semi-finals 
NP Completions 26, Pi Alpha 
Delta 25 
SAE 38, ATO 6
The intermediate championship 
game will start at 8:30 pm. 
Minors Semi-finals 
Green Aces defeated Phi Kap 
KSA defeated DTD.
Scores were not available for 
the semi-final games. The cham­
pionship will be held at 9:30 pm.
Tennis
Commissioner 
Todd Balbera, x8424 
The following are the 1990 
league champions:
Majors — DU (defeated the 
Trojans).
Intermediate — Theta Xi A 
(defeated Sig Tau).
Minors — The championship
IM News
between Theta Xi B and Phi Kap 
will be played tonight at 8 pm.
Co-rec Volleyball 
Commissioner 
Rich Romeo, x8335 
The following are the 1990 
league champions:
Majors — Barcrawlers 
Intermediate—Jolly Ranchers 
Minors — Pi Alpha Delta
Water Polo
Commissioner 
Tom Fabian, x8371 
Please play all games as sched­
uled and check the IM bulletin 
board for team standings.
Soccer
Commissioners
Majors — Scott Mills, x5308
Intermediate—JohnSupp, x8423
Minors — Sujit Bhattacharya,
x4084
Women Only — Kris Pasqualin, 
x5978
Games will be played on Flag­
staff Hill and at Gesling Stadium 
starting today. Please check the 
IM bulletin board for team 
standings and match schedules. 
A new record of 62 teams was set 
this year.
Six-Person Volleyball
Commissioner 
Rich Romeo, x8335 
Schedules and standings are 
posted on the IM bulletin board. 
A new record of 75 teams was set 
this year.
Racquetball
Commissioner 
Tom Murphy, x8424 
Matches will start today and 
will be played from 8-11 pm Mon­
day through Thursday. Schedules
are complete and can be picked 
up in the IM office.
Bowling
Commissioner 
Kris Pasqualin, x5978 
Schedules are out and can be 
picked up in the IM office. Matches 
will be held at Forward Lanes on 
Saturday mornings. Please report 
all scores to the commissioner. A 
new record of 19 teams was set 
this year.
UPCOMING SPORTS
Chess
Commissioner 
Buddy Feitt, x3947 
Schedules can be picked up in 
the IM office.
Team Table Tennis
Commissioner 
Jon Wei, x8354 
Matches will start this week. 
Please pick up schedules in the 
IM office.
Three-Man Volleyball
Commissioner 
Buddy Feitt, x3947 
Entries are due Thursday, No­
vember 1, at 4:30 pm.
Backgammon
Commissioner 
Buddy Feitt, x3947 
Entries are due Thursday, No­
vember 1, at 4:30 pm.
Bridge
Commissioner 
Sujit Bhattacharya, x4084 
Entries are due Thursday, No­
vember 1, at 4:30 pm.
Compiled by 
JASON McDONALD
Be a Student Senator.
The following seats need to be filled:
2 GSIA Senators 
2 SUPA Senators 
1 CFA Senator 
1 H&SS Senator
Student Senate is seeldng replacements for senators who 
have resigned diis semester. If you are interested in 
becoming a Student Senator, and you are in GSIA, SUPA, 
CFA, or H&SS, then pick up a petition at the Sldbo Info 
Desk. All you have to do is get 2 5 people from your college 
to sign the petition, then come to the October 30th 
Senate meeting (next Tuesday, 7 pm in the Wherrett 
Room). During this meeting the position will be filled.
Questions? x2115
Sponsored by your Activities Fee

---------------------------------------------------

20The Tartan • Carnegie Mellon • 22 October 1990
IM Touch Football Playoffs
Minors
Green Aces
Mr. Softee's
Pika C
Green Aces
Green Aces
ECE D. Rams
Carnegie In...
ECE D. Rams
Phi Kap A
Phi Kap A
Green Aces
KSA
DU B
SAE B
SAE B
KSA
Theta XI A
The Weasels
The Weasels
DTD A
DTD A
KSA
Championship Game
Tonight, 8:30 
Gesling Stadium
Intermediate
NP Completions
Pi Alpha DeltaNP Completions
PI Alpha Delta
Spirit
Zoo A
ATO
ATOSAE A
SAE A
Championship Game
Tonight, 8:30 
Gesling Stadium
Majors
Crunch Bunch
Thomas Nichols/Tartan Senior Photographer 
A Green Aces offensive player lunges for the ball as a Phi Kap defender outstretches his arms 
to tag his opponent. Intramual touch football has nearly reached the end of the season, as the 
finals are tonight. In majors, Crunch Bunch and Beta Theta Pi will go at it, while NP Completions 
and SAE B compete for the intermediate title. Having defeated Phi Kap, Green Aces will pla) 
KSA In the minors championship game. All games are tonight in Gesling Stadium.
Crunch Bunch
ATO
Championship Game
Tonight, 9:30 
Gesling Stadium
GSIA A
Beta
Beta
0
• «mejctn us. 
mare
Women Onlythe United Abrac
AWFF
AWFFAWFF
1990 Champions
ThetaWomen Only League
Delta Gamma
Saint Elmo's is a bookstore for those who morch to a different drummer by 
choice or necessity. We hove the most informed, ond often subversive 
collections in Gender Studies, Holistic Lifestyles, Ecofogy & EcoFeminism, 
Vegetarian Cookery, Women & Men's Studies, Cultural Analysis ond Animal 
Rights. Our Gay and Lesbian Fiction and Non Fiction 
collection is the best in Western PA.
Saint Elmo's is not a bookstore for everyone, but if you are looking for options, 
and/or are courageous in your life choices, visit us and 
Explore your alternatives.
2214 E. Corson Street Pgh 15203 
431-9100
Open 10-9 Mon thru Sot, Sun until 5
#9—_bb:p:dgb#
Housing
Short Term— Shadyside Inn 
Apartment Suites. Elegantly 
furnished, well appointed, Studio 1
& 2 bedroom suites, fully 
equipped kitchen. Includes free 
cable (HBO), phone, parking, 
linens. One block to Walnut St. 
shops. From $41 per day. Daily & 
Weekly rate available. 441-4444.
Jobs
Activists, Environmentalists:
Work 3 days a week, 1:30-10:30 
PM, and earn $165-$200 per week. 
Clean Water Action, 765-3053. 
Ask for Dion.
Travel Sales Representative—
Wanted: outgoing, aggressive, 
self-motivated individuals or 
groups to market Winter and 
Spring Break trips on campus. For 
more information, call Student 
Travel Services at 1-800-648- 
4849.
Fast Fundraising Program— 
$1000 in just one week. Earn up to 
$ 1000 for your campus organiza­
tion. Plus a chance at $5000 more! 
This program works! No invest­
ment needed. Call 1-800-932- 
0528, ext. 50.
Mother’s Helper —Squirrel Hill. 3 
1/2 year old and infant. 4-5 days, 
hours between 12 and 8pm. 681- 
0605.
Part-Time Jobs for the environ­
ment. Great for the college student. 
Work with Penn PIRG, the state’s 
fastest growing environmental and 
consumer campaign. Training, 
advancement, flexible days. Earn 
$30-$50 a day. Call Robin 521-8050.
Healthy Women—ages 18-37 (34 
for smokers) needed for oral contra­
ceptive study at Magee-Women’s 
Hospital. One year commitment. 
Reimbursement. For details call 647- 
4259 (Mon.-Fri.).
Spring Break 1991 — Individual or 
student organization needed to 
promote Spring Break trip. Earn 
money, free trips, and valuable work 
experience. Call now!! Inter-Campus 
Programs: 1-800-327-6013.
Cheerful, dependable person
sought to care for infant four to 
twelve hours a week. Call 381-5816 
for interview.
Attention: Fraternities, Sororities, 
Clubs, and Individuals. Trip organiz­
ers wanted for fantastic Ski and Sun 
Tours. Earn cash commissions and/
or go for free. Call the #1 company 
in college travel, Moguls Ski and 
Sun Tours, Inc., 1-800-666-4857.
Earn $2500 and Free Spring Break 
Trips to Bahamas, Jamaica as part- 
time Campus Rep for Spring Break 
Travel 1-800-638-6786.
Earn $500-$1500 part time stuffing 
envelopes in your home. For free 
information, send a self addressed, 
stamped envelope to: P.O. Box 
815*53, Dept. P 115, Albequerque, 
NM, 87198.
Free Spring Break Trip! Jamaica! 
Bahamas! Sell trips on your campus 
and earn a free trip/cash for yourself. 
Call Four Seasons 1-800-331-3136.
Wanted: Student Kleptomaniacs for 
school project. Confidential, no 
names will be used. Call Kevin at 
681-7372, leave a message.
Campus Reps — Individual or 
Student Organization — needed to 
promote our Spring Break Packages 
on campus. Free trips plus Commis­
sion. Call Campus Marketing. 1-800- 
423-5264
Wanted: Enthusiastic individual or 
student organization to promote 
Spring Break destinations for 1991.
Earn commissions, free trips and 
valuable work experience. Apply 
now! Call Student Travel Service, 
1-800-265-1799. Ask for Phil.
Campus Rep Wanted: Campus rep 
to run ski and spring break trips for 
free travel or commission. Call 413- 
533-1600 collect.
Services
Stunguns: legal, powerful protec­
tion — Teargas: attacker is rendered 
helpless — Guns — Martial Arts. 
Attention: college students, young 
adults— Mary’s Shoppe. 835-2204.
Parties *** Parties *** Parties — 
We have everything for your party at 
Papermart — One Stop Party 
Shopping. Stroll down Morewood 
Avenue to Baum Boulevard. Theme 
decorations. Lots of fun doodads and- 
fantastic la-de-dah. Gag gifts and 
fake vomit. Great greeting cards. 
681-8900.
Call for a complimentary Mary Kay 
facial or hostess a skin care class and 
glamour makeover for yourself and 
friends. Call Linda 381-5816.
Spring Break Sailing Bahamas — 
45ft Captained Yachts. Groups of 6 
to 8. Seven days barefoot in the
Bahamas. $488.00 each including 
accommodation & meals. 
Springbreak Hotline—-1-800-999- 
7245, 10am to 8pm.
***Low Student Fares:i::1:*AYH 
Passes***EurailPasses***TravelBooks:|:*:|: 
All to be found at Forum Travel.
Visit us at 4608 Winthrop St. (off 
South Craig) or call us at 681-4099.
Miscellaneous
Found: Black kitten with brown 
stripes and brown eyes. Small scar 
on forehead. Friendly. To claim, call 
363-3974.
Study Abroad in Australia!
Information on semester, summer, J- 
term, Graduate, and Internship 
programs. All run under $6000. 
Curtain University 1-800-878-3696.
Private Adoption is a compassion­
ate and perfectly legal way to show 
your love for your child. This choice 
offers you paid medical and legal 
expenses, no foster care or agency 
hassles, and a cozy place to live 
while pregnant. We will be a milk 
and cookies MOM and a little league 
DAD, and we promise a full and 
happy life for a child.We are easy to 
talk with and care about your needs. 
If you would like to meet with us, or
simply talk, please call us collect 
—(412) 836-4754.
Having a baby? ... or know 
someone who is? Maybe they’re 
not ready for parenthood right 
now. Private adoption can offer an 
intimate and personal alternative. 
It gives the birth mother the 
chance to meet and know us, a 
happily married couple looking 
forward to hot chocolate, bedtime 
stories, good night kisses and trips 
to the zoo. We can offer emotional 
support and a cozy place to stay it 
needed. We can legally pay 
medical expenses. We’re friendly 
and easy to talk with, so call 
collect anytime (412)421-8997.
Found: Keys (with Nissan key 
chain) found at Gesling Stadium 
on Wednesday, Oct. 3, around 
8:30pm. Call x2187 orx2211 to 
claim;
FOR SALE
Gov’t seized vehicles from $ 100- 
Call for immediate information. 
504-649-5745 Ext. 10300.
Please send Classifieds to The Tart(in- 
Box 17, Carnegie Mellon University' 
Pittsburgh. PA 15213. Call 268-2111 
for more information.

---------------------------------------------------



---------------------------------------------------

Half-Dozen
Vol. 12 No.2

---------------------------------------------------

Welcome to our second issue. I’m proud to announce that we've just 
shipped several thousand copies of Dossier to our boys In the Middle East. 
Things can get a little tense when you're poised on the Saudi border, and 
we're just doing what we can to boost morale. So come on, fellas, let's give 
Kuwait back to the Kuwaitis, and get everybody back safe and sound. Dossier 
salutes you!
Okay, okay, we didn’t send any issues to the troops. I really wanted to, 
but, well, there was a little problem. You see, I was hauling these stacks of 
Dossier over to the post office, and I was a little loopy after licking all those 
stamps, and I guess I got my “good causes” mixed up, because I accidentally 
recycled all the Dossiers. Ah well, maybe next time.
I just wanted to clear something up from our last Issue. I was all 
excited about looking at the finished product. We put a lot of time and effort 
Into putting It together, and finally I could see the fruits of our labor. Well, I 
opened It up, and what did I see? Pizza coupons. It's this sort of thing that 
really gets my goat. I mean, here we are, doing all we can to entertain you a 
little bit, and maybe make you think a little, and those corporate dogs have to 
come in and ruin everything. They take every opportunity to poison your minds 
and squeeze the last drop out of your wallet. Well, I’m not going to take it 
anymore. I've had It up to here with these greedy tricksters. That’s why I've 
started a new club - Youth Against Profit (YAP) - and I hope you'll join. Our first 
meeting is next Wednesday at 9:00 p.m. at Bertos Family Restaurant, 4910 
Baum Boulevard, where the Early Bird Special is only $4.95. Be sure to try the 
liver and onions - It’s deeeeee-llclousl And tell ’em Jack sent ya.
Okay, with all that out of the way, we can move onto this Issue. Once 
again, we’ve got a little bit of everything - comedy, drama, romance, violence, 
death, birth, and baseball. It's a literary salad bar. Except without the sneeze 
guard.
Our featured topic for this month Is satanism. If you read this issue 
backwards, you can find out what “dossier" actually means.
Thanks for reading. Have a happy Halloween, and we'll see you next 
month. Now if you'll excuse me, I have to get to work on the Dossier buggy.
Jack Sllbert
Attention all writers! Don't horde your work! If you've written a short story, 
poem, play, or essay, we'd like to read it, and maybe publish it. Send your 
stuff to Dossier, c/o The Tartan, Room 50, Skibo. All submissions must be 
accompanied by your name, address, and phone number. The submission 
deadline for our next issue Is Monday, November 5.
Literary Editor: Jack Sllbert 
Design Editor: Chris Shields
Copyright © 1990 by The Tartan

---------------------------------------------------

A Portrait of the Antichrist as a Young Boy
Writer: Sean Kracklauer 
Designer: Chris Shields
Experimenter Bias
Writer: Javier Grillo-Marxuach 
Designer: Alycya Hjelm
New Stanton, PA
Writer: Mikael K. Zandin 
Designer: Denise Heisey
Funeral Wrapping
Writer: Candace Klein 
Designer: Sean Barrow
The Girlfriend
Writer: Khristina Mayes 
Designer: Carolyn Woyciesjes
A Child's Elegy for BErnie and ert
Writer: Christopher Coker 
Designer: Kara Narath

---------------------------------------------------

A Portrait of the Antichrist as a Young Boy
I used to believe I was the Antichrist.
I’d stand in front of the bathroom mirror 
every morning, pulling back my hair 
in hopes of finding hidden, a crimson 666.
But I never found it.
Still, I’d go around the house, inverting 
the yellow wicker cross in the family room 
and the slim, gilded crucifix 
hung above my parents’ bed.
Then I’d get out the toothpicks
and the Elmer’s glue and make crude pentagrams.
Nobody seemed to care, except for my fire 
and brimstone grandmother, who recited in whispers 
Our Fathers and Hail Marys when I closed within ten paces. 
She once dragged me to confession at Saint Peter’s.
I can still remember the priest’s
bright scarlet face when I confessed my Sin.
I invited over my friends to play Ouija at night 
with birthday candles melted 
into the four corners of the board.
We’d close our eyes and pretend I called 
out of the darkness unholy spirits 
that directed our hands.
But being the Antichrist is a lonely job.
My friends soon deserted me 
in favor of dirt bikes and skateboards, 
which, they told me, were more fun.
I held out for over a week, 
cursing the lot of them to hell,
then broke apart my pentagrams, 
and played pick-up sticks instead.
Sean Kracklauer

---------------------------------------------------

jj avierGrillo-Marxuach
Experimenter Bias
Our story takes place In the apartment 
owned by Phillip Oscar Dendron, a young 
man In his late twenties. As the lights 
come up, he sits on the couch watching 
T.V. The doorbell rings; he gets up and 
walks toward the door.
Phil: Who is it?
Voice: I'm taking a survey, sir...
(Phil opens the door; standing before him 
is Harry Beckencail, a rather average 
looking man in his mid thirties. He is 
neatly coiffed and is wearing a grey suit 
and tie tailored to a perfect fit. 
Beckencall's tortoise shell glasses hide 
the friendly eyes of someone who could 
be your next door neighbor.)
Phil: You are?
Beckencail: Hi, I'm Harry Beckencail, sir, 
and I'm taking a survey and I'd like to 
know if you could just answer some 
Questions for me, please.
Phil: For whom?
Beckencail: Well, for me.
Phil: No, I mean, who are you 
conducting the survey for?
Beckencail: The Government.
Phil: Why?
Beckencail: Well, you know, they like to 
keep tabs on how people are doing, we 
care, you know.
Phil: Like what?
Beckencail: Oh...things....l mean, it’s all 
just government stuff, you know...
Phil: Well, I'm sorry, I can't take 
part in a survey unless I know what 
it is about.
Beckencail: It's nothing, really...
Phil: You heard me.
Beckencail: All Right. (Beckencail takes his 
clipboard and pencil and makes several very 
large marks on the top sheet)
Phil: What are you doing?
Beckencail: Well, they asked us to take down 
the names and addresses of the people who 
didn't want to do it. It's just a formality, 
really.
Phil: My address, why?
Beckencail: Oh, it's just red tape, really, they 
just like to keep tabs on these things...all 
right, thank you... (Beckencail turns to leave)
Phil: Wait. Maybe I do want to 
take part in this survey.
Beckencail: (Turns, walks back into the 
apartment.) All right, great.
Phil: Are you going to erase the 
stuff you put down about me? 
Beckencail: No, I can't.
Phil: But I am taking part in the 
survey.
Beckencail: Yeah, I know, but the gov­
ernment wants to know who the wishy- 
washy people are, it's just a formality, I 
mean, they are such the sticklers forthis 
sort of thing.
Phil: I am not wishy-washy! 
Beckencail: All right, all right (Writing.) 
not wishy-washy. Okay, can we please 
get on with the survey?
Phil: Sure.
Beckencail: Could you sign here? (Holds 
out clipboard.)
Phil: What am I signing?
Beckencail: A form, it's just procedure, 
you know...
Phil: But what does it say? 
Beckencail: Oh, justthings, it's just 
government stuff, come on, sign, be a 
sport...
Phil: Let me read it.
(Phil snatches the clip board from 
Beckencail.)
Beckencail: I'd really appreciate it if you 
cooperated, I mean, it's been a long day...
Phil: Hey, I am cooperating. 
Beckencail: Then sign, please, it's 
nothing, just sign...
Phil: But what does it say? 
(reading)...power of attorney, 
relinquish all privileges thereof...
I'm not signing anything I can't 
understand!
(Beckencail makes some more tick marks 
on his form.)
D
Ji_M eckencall: All right, I can't force
you, I guess you'll be hearing from us 
soon, good bye!
(Beckencail heads for the door.)
Phil: What do you mean "hearing 
from vou?" Wait a minute! 
Beckencail: Oh, it's nothing really, just 
procedure, you know, paperwork, forms, 
bureaucracy, triplicate, death-squad-
(Phil snatches the clipboard from Beckencail and 
signs.)
Beckencail: You won’t regret this, really, shall we 
get on with the survey?
(Phil walks over to the couch and sits down;
Beckencail follows.)
Beckencail: Name?
Phil: Dendron, Phillip Oscar Dendron Jr. 
Beckencail: So that is your father's name as well. 
Mother's name?
Phil: Rhoda.
Beckencail: (Chuckling.) Rhoda Dendron, that's 
kind of a fruity name.
Phil: That's not very damn funny.
(Beckencail makes a series of marks on his pad.)
Phil: What was that for?
Beckencail: No sense of humor, they ask us that, 
you know.
Phil: Fruity! I get it!
Beckencail: So, I've noticed you have been 
watching T.V.
Phil: Yes, I have.
Beckencail: What have you been watching?
Pnil: I have been watching "The—
Public T.V. I love it, I can't get enough of it, why 
do you know that just this week there has been a 
series of very interesting specials on the mating 
habits of the South American whooping llama-
(Suddenly, the theme from "The Brady Bunch" 
begins to blast from the screen. Dendron 
scrambles for the remote control and turns the 
T.V. off. Beckencail flips past a few pages and 
makes several more tick marks.)
Phil: I must have been switching channels 
when you came.
Beckencail: I'm sure you were, Phil.
Phil: I was!
Beckencail: It's okay, I know a lot of people who 
watch "The Brady Bunch."
Phil: Nowwait- 
Beckencall: At any rate, I do have some questions 
to ask you. The Government is very interested in 
certain facets of American life and they are taking 
a sample to measure how many people do certain 
things. So, are you married?
(Beckencail marks replies on the survey as they 
come.)
Phil: No.
Beckencail: Do you have a steady acquaintance
with a member of the opposite gender 
with whom you mate frequently?
Phil: Uh...Yes, 1 do, I think. 
Beckencail: (Writing.) Not...a...bowzer... 
know this is kind of embarrassing but, do 
you have a healthy sex life?
Phil: That's rather a personal 
question!

---------------------------------------------------

Beckencaif: Is that a yes or a no?
Phil: I just think that that is a pretty 
personal questions and I don't think I 
should answer that!
Beckencall: It's a no, isn't it, well, that's 
okay. I mean, not everybody- 
Phil: No!
Beckencall: So wait, it is a no?
Phil: I mean yes!
Beckencall: (Writing.) Not...quite...sure... 
Now, are you a member of the Commu­
nist party?
Phil: Of course not, I’m proud to be
a ¦__-r emocrat.
Beckencall: Was that a yes or a no?
Phil: (Annoyed.) That’s not very 
damned funny, either, Beckencall. 
Beckencall: Have you read the works of 
Karl Marx?
Phil: Yeah.
Beckencall: But you just said you 
weren't a member of the Communist 
party.
Phil: I'm not, but I read Marx in 
high school.
Beckencall: So you were indoctrinated at 
an early age.
Phil: No! I wentto a public school! 
Beckencall: A public school where Marx 
was taught!
Phil: Of course, it's not against the 
law, you know.
Beckencall: Of course it isn't, I never said 
that. Oh, this one is kinda personal....Do 
you own any automatic weapons?
Phil: No.
Beckencall: And have you ever fired or 
used an automatic weapon?
Phil: (Uneasily.) Yeah...once... 
Beckencall: Where?
Phil: I wentto one of those survival 
games with some friends down at 
the office over a weekend. 
Beckencall: A survival game?
Phil: Yes, they showed us howto 
use these guns and we chased 
each other around these forests 
while shooting the guns. 
Beckencall: So you and several mem­
bers of the organization which employs 
you were trained and then engaged in 
confrontational guerrilla exercises involv­
ing the use of automatic weapons in a 
survival camp setting....very interesting.
Phil: Well, it's not what it seems! 
Beckencall: Very few things are, Mr 
Dendron! That's why I am here!
Phil: But the guns only shot paint 
pellets!
Beckencall: What color paint pellets?
Phil: Red.
Beckencall: (insinuatingly, while marking 
his pad.) RED! Well, that's interesting, 
isn't it!
Phil: Now wait just one second! It 
washed off!
Beckencall: In the same way a poster 
advocating worldwide revolution can be 
torn down only to be replaced again if 
those who are putting them up are 
trained to insure the survival of their 
propaganda!
Phil: I never said that! Stop 
putting words into my mouth! 
Beckencall: All right, Mr. Dendron, if that 
is your name-
Phil: It sure is.
Beckencall: Do you practice safe sex? 
Phil: That's a pretty far subject 
from Worldwide Revolution! 
Beckencall: Well, safe sex and Interna­
tional Communism are closer than you 
could ever possibly imagine.
Phil: Well, I do practice safe sex. 
Beckencall: All right...so, how many 
condoms come in a box?
Phil: I don't know!
Beckencall: But wait, you just said you 
practiced safe sex!
Phil: Well, one thing has nothing to 
do with each other!
Beckencall: They have everything to do 
with each other, Mr. Dendron, now 
answer the question!
Phil: I buy nine packs, all right? 
Beckencall: Wait a minute, I don't think 
there is such a thing as a nine pack!
E_¦__A verybody knows they only come
in three, six and twelve packs!
Phil: They do not!
(Beckencall glares at Phil.)
Phil: Well, maybe I always buy a 
six and a three pack!
Phil: How should I know?
Beckencall: Well, I'd like to think if you are 
the authority you pretend to be-
Phil: I am not pretending to be 
anyone! All that I am saying is 
that-
Beckencall: Can't you just tell me how 
much?
Phil: Nine dollars.
Beckencall: You shell out a buck for each 
one!
Phil: No! I mean yes! I mean- 
Three fifty!
Beckencall: That's pretty cheap, do you 
want to try again?
Phil: What is this, "The Price Is 
Right?"
Beckencall: You watch "The Price is 
Right?"
Phil: No, never!
Beckencall: But you knew we are en­
gaged in a pricing game much like those 
played on said show!
Phil: I switch channels a lot! 
Sometimes "The Price Is Right" 
comes on and it's the only thing on 
television and I have no other 
alternative!
Beckencall: So,when you have nothing 
better to do, like making an effort to 
improve your community through civic 
service or engaging in a charitable 
organization you would rather watch 
"The Price Is Right."
Phil: That's not what I said! I don't 
care what the government- 
Beckencall: Don't be so antsy, Mr. 
Dendron, we don’t morally sentence you 
for it. It's a free country. Now where 
were we?
Phil: Birth control.
Beckencall: Are you ashamed of saying 
"Condom?"
Phil: No! Never!
Beckencall: Say it.
Phil: Say what?
Beckencall: The word.
Phil: Condom?
Beckencall: There, you said it! I heard 
you!
Phil: "Condom?"
Beckencall: (Slaps Dendron.) How dare 
you say "condom" to me?! We prefer 
"prophylactic." Say it! Say it! Prophy­
lactic! Prophylactic!
(Beckencall is now on the couch, staring 
one inch away from Dendron's eyes. He 
is in a breathless frenzy.)
Phil: (Harried.) Prophylactic? 
Beckencall: PROPHYLACTIC!
Both: (With "umph." ) PRO-PHYLACTIC! 
Beckencall: (Still breathless, settling
Beckencall: Fine...at what price?

---------------------------------------------------

Phil: Since when?
Beckencall: Since you signed them over 
to me!
Phil: When did I do that?
(Beckencall holds out the piece of paper 
which Phil signed earlier in the scene.)
down on tne other ona ottne coucn.) And 
now to the next b^-iien/ of questions.
Phil: Battery is a good word for it.
Beckencall: (Writes.) Sarcastic and 
subversive.
Phil: What are you saying about me? 
Beckencall: Nothing! Mr. Dendron, you 
have a real paranoid streak in you. Have 
you ever taken a life in the name of World 
Communist revolution?
Phil: No!
Beckencall: So you have never taken a 
life in the name of World Revolution?
Phil: Never.
Beckencall: But you have taken a life!
Phil: I never said that!
Beckencall: Yes you did, you said you 
have never taken a life in the name of 
World Revolution, implying that although 
you haven't taken a life in the name of
w? ? orld Revolution you have 
taken a life anyway!
Phil: But...but... that's not what I meant to say! 
Beckenhall: But it is what yousaidlSemantics can 
be quite a revealing thing.don'tyou agree, Phil
0. Dendron.
Phil: But you are just making a wonderful infer­
ence!
Beckencall: I assure you, this survey is controlled 
to avoid experimenter bias!
PhikYou are taking my words in a completely 
different context than that in which they were 
said!
Beckencall: Or maybe your Freudian Slip is 
showing, Phil.
Phil: You are lying about me in 
that survey! I won’t let you spread 
lies about me!
Beckencall: In that case, I'm afraid you 
leave me no choice but to bring in the 
machine.
Phil: The machine?
(Beckencall opens his briefcase, removes 
a manacle-like device which he places 
around Phil's wrist.)
Phil: Wait a minute! (He tries to get 
up; Beckencall pushes him down.)
This goes against my civil rights!
Beckencall: You have no civil rights!
Phil: Wait a minute! You told me 
that that piece of paper was just 
about "Government Stuff!"ABeckencall: Any real J_ merican could 
tell you that civil rights are “government stuff".
Phil: (Frightened) Is it a lie detector? 
Beckencall:
Beckencall: Among other things 
Phil: On God, nelp me...
(The machine emits a shrill beep.)
Phil: What is that supposed to 
mean?
Beckencall: Nothing to worry about, 
now, we shall begin with some simple 
questions.
Phil: Sure.
Beckencall: Have you been irresponsibly 
reproducing with the intent of fostering a 
militarily trained master race assembled 
into belligerent collective units with the 
mission of World Revolution and the 
overthrow of the American Government?
Phil: No!
(The machine emits a shrill beep. We 
then hear the sound of an electric dis­
charge. Phillip screams.)
Beckencall: What seems to be the 
matter?
Phil: It gave me a shock!
Beckencall: Just a precaution against 
further untruth.
Phil: Something has to be wrong 
with the machine!
(Beep, shock, scream.)
Beckencall: This is a multi-million dollar 
machine, it does not make mistakes!
Phil: Well, why don't you ask me some­
thing obvious!
Beckencall: All right, do you eat?
Phil: Yes.
(Beep, shock, scream.)
Beckencall: You don't?
Phil: I told you something was wrong 
with the machine!
(Beep, shock, scream.)
Beckencall: What sort of a creature does 
not eat!

---------------------------------------------------

(Beep, shock, scream.)
Beckencall: The machine never lies!
Phil: All right, I'll prove it to you- (Mock­
ingly) my blood is green!
(Phil braces himself as if expecting a 
massive shock, nothing happens.)
Beckencall:Green blood! You must not 
be of this Earth!
Phil: That's ridiculous!
(Beep, Shock, Scream.)
Beckencall: Mother of God! (Phil stirs 
uncomfortably.) Don't move, or I'll blast 
your brains out! (Paces momentarily.)
sIk__' o, the invasion is coming from
withoutand not from within as expected!
Phil: From without? That's ridicu­
lous!
Beckencall: That's what they said in '38 
when the Martians landed in Grover's 
Mill! So, it wasn't a hoax after all! Are 
you one of them?
Phil: Aw come on! Everybody 
knows that it wasn't the Martians! 
Beckencall: What do you mean "Every­
body knows it wasn't the Martians?"
Who was it then?
Phil: (Burying his head in his 
palms.) Oops.
Beckencall: Oops! What do you mean, 
oops! So, where are you from?
Phil: This is ridiculous, I never 
should have brought it up! lam 
not a Martian! See! The Machine 
agrees with me!
Beckencall: So, if it wasn't the Martians, 
then who?
Phil: Orson Welles!
(Beep, shock, scream.)
Beckencall: So! You have fallen into my 
trap! We have never suspected
Plutonians and now you have verified my 
suspicions! (To himself.) I have to tell 
my superiors, I have to alert the Armed 
Forces!
Phil: Walt a minute! So who am I? 
Beckencall: Wouldn't you like to know? 
Ha! You thought you could outsmart us, 
well, I'll be back! i'll be back with nuclear 
weapons! You see! You see! You can 
run, but you can't hide anything from the 
Government of the United States! You 
move one step and that machine will 
pump a million volts through your alien 
carcass faster than you can say "War Of 
The Worlds!"
Phil: All right, Beckencall, enough 
is enough. Get me off the machine. 
Beckencall: It's some kind of alien mind 
control trick! I knew it!
Phil: Your little charade is over.
(Beckencall clutches his own head. And 
begins to shout "I can't hear you.")
Phil: (Forcefully, In a tone not 
heard until now.) Silence, 
Beckencall!
Beckencall: (Startled.) Huh?
Phil: You have gone too far, 
Beckencall, your little charade is 
over.
(Phil pulls out a .44 magnum and blows a 
hole In Beckencall's chest. Phil proceeds 
to pull out a key from his pocket with 
which he opens the manacle. He then 
goes on to remove his shoe, pulling out 
an antenna from the sole. He uses it as a 
"Maxwell Smart" style phone.)
Phil: This is Special Agent Sev­
enty-four. You were right, Agent 
Beckencall flipped out. I had to 
neutralize him. I'll wait in the 
apartment until you send someone 
to dispose of the body.
(Phil picks up the remote control and 
presses a button. The "Brady Bunch" 
theme begins to play in the background.)
(JJlack Out.)
The End
Beckencall: So, it wasn't Orson Welles, 
either... (Still pacing.) It must be the 
Plutonians! Everybody knows their 
planet Is much too cold to sustain life...
Phil: (Exasperated.) Yeah! That's right! 
Plutonians! Boy, you got me there, 
buddy! I was a fool to think I could hide 
from you! I am a Plutonian and I'm here 
to invade the Earth, are you happy now?
(Beep, shock, scream.)

---------------------------------------------------

NEW STANTON
Mikael K. Zandin
“You should have seen them, I was spitting hookers so big 
you could have watched them crawl to the side of the road in the 
rear view mirror,” one naked man said to another, “Hey Jeremy, 
you were following us, what did you think?”
Jeremy was sitting on the bench outside the showers staring 
at the drain in the floor. Usually he would have answered the 
comment with another remark, but not tonight. He was still in his 
uniform which had been blue when issued, silently grumbling to 
himself. Tonight, someone else would have to end the shower’s 
dialogue.
“Yeah, I’ve still got one stuck to my window from when 
you missed Carl.” Jeremy couldn’t see who said that but knew it 
was Joe Richie from detailing. “When are you going to clean off 
my Impala, Carl?”
“What are you talking about, I’ve never missed with any of 
my spits!” Carl yelled back and grabbed for some Lava Soap.
“You got to stop smoking them Lucky Strikes, Carl. Your 
lungs are going to look like this factory,” somebody shouted from 
the showers.
There was laughter.
Jeremy looked up, and stared dully into the showers where 
tired men washed eight hours of sweat, ash, and steel dust from 
their sagging bodies. The Volkswagen transmission casings had 
won once again. And tomorrow there would be more of them to 
fight against. They never did seem to stop to rollout of the foundry 
cooling rooms and on to the assembly lines where they worked.

---------------------------------------------------

Jeremy’s muscles were tired from throwing things around 
but the work had been fulfilling and the casings had been a great 
thing to take out his anger on.
“You o.k., Jeremy?” Carl called out from the shower.
Jeremy nodded, then shook his head. He knew what it was 
that bothered him, he had known all day in fact. “Fuck that 
goddamned polack pansy bastard! If I ever see him again, I’m 
going to kick his little faggot ass through his own goddamned 
locker door!” He pounded his fist against the locker behind him.
It rattled back and forth, and men looked over to see what had just 
happened. “The fucking pig,” Jeremy added.
The slamming door of his apartment still shook through his 
body, and Jeremy remembered what it looked like. He had stared 
at its chipping paint for a good minute before turning away, listen­
ing to the footsteps of Paige Shannon fading down the stairs, 
unable to move. She had just admitted to him about her three week 
long affair with one of the painters in the finishing department, and 
then announced that she was leaving him for her lover: “a real 
man.”
“What the hell does that Polish painter have that I don’t?” 
Jeremy said aloud and expected someone to say Paige, but all was 
silent. “Carl, can I have one of your Lucky Strikes?” he shouted 
into the showers. Christ, he thought, everybody in this goddamned 
locker room must know about her cheating on him by now.
Carl looked back at him, his baggy eyes trying to feign 
surprise. “You, smoke?” Everybody knew what had happened 
this morning. “Gossip in this foundry is a trail of gasoline, ignited 
by someone’s personal life,” Carl had once said. He then blabbed 
about the finishing department for over half an hour while the 
waitress of P&M’s Pizzeria kept their Iron City Beers filled.
“Yeah, all right, just don’t get shit all over my pack.”
Jeremy fumbled with the pack and eventually got one out. 
He found the ‘YOU TOO CAN GET A HIGH SCHOOL DI­
PLOMA’ matches and lit one. His fingers shook when he put the 
Lucky Strike to his mouth, and he coughed when he sucked the 
smoke deep into his lungs.
Carl sat down next to him, towel draped around his waist, 
and grabbed for a cigarette. “So beat the shit out of him and get it 
out of your system. After all, he’s only in painting. You’ve got 
the real man’s job around here.”
Jeremy nodded. He was the one person who stood on the 
first part of the assembly line after the cooling chamber and ripped 
and beat unwanted pieces from the hot transmission casings with 
only gloves and a hammer. He then had to hoist the two hundred 
pound casings with a hand crane, but after the breaks, work piled 
up, and Jeremy had to throw them from one part of the assembly 
line to another to keep up. It had been tough in the beginning, but 
now it was a good way to keep awake during the early shifts. 
Especially after a long night at the Pizzeria.
He’d been doing it for some five years, and his muscles 
now felt restricted by the oversized workman’s uniform that 
Volkswagen had issued him. Carl had once explained that it was 
due to the fact that Germans were smaller than Americans and 
didn’t need as big a uniform. Carl had an explanation for every­
thing, and it usually involved the blaming of someone they would 
never have to deal with.
“Christ, he’s not even unionized.” Carl continued his sentence 
lisping as though he was a ‘homo’. “Doesn’t dare to stand up to 
the management of this most horrible place.” His voice stung the 
air with the ‘s’ sound.
Jeremy finished off the Lucky Strike and enjoyed the buzz. 
He shook a little from the anger inside him.
Carl stood up and opened the door to his locker. A bottle 
of blue aftershave fell out into his hands. Carl spread it out all 
over his face and upper body and the smell momentarily overpow­
ered the sharp smell of burnt steel in the air.
Jeremy, too, stood up and reached into his locker. The 
picture of Paige Shannon was still hanging on the locker door, but 
Jeremy removed the cherry shaped magnet holding it to the door 
and let the picture fall to the floor. Her square face with the red 
bandanna disappearing into her long straight brown hair soon

---------------------------------------------------

vanished under the heavy steel-toed boot of Jeremy’s right foot.
Carl put on a red plaid shirt from the plaid shirt collection 
he often kidded about and looked at Jeremy with compassion. 
“Take your shower, kick his ass, and then we’ll go to P&M’s Pizza 
and get some beers and pick up some dames.” Carl prodded 
Jeremy towards the shower stalls. “Go on, I’ll wait for you.”
Jeremy dropped his overalls and walked in to the shower­
ing area timidly. This was the one place where only men could go, 
and he wasn’t so confident that he had proven himself a man at 
that time. Bill Dowley, one of Jeremy’s friends from further down 
the assembly line walked by him and asked how he was. Jeremy 
nodded and walked on.
“Stay cool,” the man said. Jeremy nodded again and found 
a spout to stand under. The warm water cleansed him and cleared 
his head. He stood there, still, until he had lost track of time with 
his eyes closed and water pouring down his face. He had really 
loved Paige. She was his Coca-Cola girl from that rainy day at 
Three Rivers Stadium when the Pirates had beaten the Dodgers.
It was the top of the ninth, the Pirates were losing five to 
one against the Dodgers, and the light drizzle had become a forty- 
five minute rain delay. Carl had repeated over and over “Don’t 
worry, the umps wouldn’t call the game,” until the whole depart­
ment had said they would stay until the end if only Carl would shut 
up.
She had come around then, just as Andy Van Slyke had 
stepped up to bat in the bottom of the ninth, with her hoarse voice 
yelling “Coke, Coke.” He had bought one and made a joke about 
how the Coke was the best thing he had seen all afternoon. She 
laughed, and said that he wasn’t so bad either.
Carl slapped him on his shoulder. Van Slyke had hit a ball 
out towards the outfield. It fell in for a base hit, but few people 
cheered since most of the fans had already taken this game for a 
loss and gone home during the early drizzle.
When he turned back to see where the Coca-Cola vendor 
stood, she had gone further up the aisle. He saw her giving back 
change to some other man, and just for a moment, he felt jealous.
He turned back to the game, thinking that if he was to walk up to 
her and ask her out, she would laugh in his face.
Carl yelled out a cheer. He was one of the few people in 
the stadium who did so. Bobby Bonilla swung and missed for the 
second time. She walked by on her way down, and smiled pleas­
antly at Jeremy.
He sat up. Now was his chance. It had been too long since 
he had seen a woman, and the girls down at P&M’s Pizza were 
starting to get annoying. He stood up and said that he needed to 
piss, then followed her out to the arcade games in the hallway.
She was getting her tray refilled at one of the windows in a gray 
cement wall. “Hi,” he said.
“Hi,” she answered back, throwing the same smile at him 
as before. It wasn’t of any legendary beauty, but it didn’t seem to 
belong in the stadium. Normally only old and fat men seemed to 
get stuck selling Coca-Cola at Three Rivers Stadium.
She was wearing a pin that said “no smoking, please.” He 
had quit smoking at that time. She said that she was only working 
there to pay her way through beauty school, the name of which 
Jeremy could never remember. He nodded and mumbled that it 
was good that she was doing something with her life, then went on 
to tell her that he worked in the New Stanton Volkswagen plant. 
She seemed to like that.
He asked for her phone number just as a cheer rose from 
the crowd. He asked her again when it died down. She wrote it 
down on the edge of an empty cup, and handed it to him, making 
sure that her hand touched his. He liked that, and promised that he 
would call.
Another cheer went up in the stadium and Jeremy said he 
had to go. She nodded and said she had to go too, to sell some 
pop. He promised again that he would call, and she smiled and 
turned away.
When Jeremy found his pals, the stadium was shaking.
José Lind was rounding third base and jogging lazily towards 
home plate. Jeremy looked up at the big scoreboard, the game was 
tied and there were two outs. As José reached home, everybody

---------------------------------------------------

went crazy. The announcer was yelling something on somebody’s 
radio, people were throwing high-fives at whoever was standing 
nearby and even Carl tried to give one of the other men from the 
assembly plant a hug.
Then it began to rain hard, and the six or seven thousand 
fans who had stayed to see the miracle poured out of their seats 
and towards the exits.
Jeremy ran his fingers through his hair and found that he 
was crying. He felt embarrassed, then realized that he was stand­
ing under a shower head and water was cascading down his face 
anyway. He wondered what it had been that made him fall in 
love with her in the first place. It was probably just that she said 
yes and then moved in with him. And he wondered why he was 
so upset at her leaving him.
Damn it! He walked from the showers back to his locker 
where Carl was sitting with a fresh cigarette watching a lump of 
gray-green mucus float towards the drain in the middle of the 
floor. Everyone gave it a wide berth.
“Hurry up and get dressed. My throat’s dry for an Old 
German beer and a young American girl,” Carl cackled. 
“Smoke?”
“No, well, one more.” Jeremy reached out and took the 
cigarette from Carl’s pack. When he finished getting his cloth­
ing on, Carl slapped some of the blue aftershave on Jeremy’s 
face.
“It’s only Aqua Velva, chicks dig it.” Carl threw his arm 
on Jeremy’s shoulder, and started walking towards the door. 
“Come on.”
But in the doorway stood the painter, talking and laugh­
ing with another painter. Their uniforms weren’t gray like the 
soot from Jeremy’s but yellow, like their bellies, Carl had once 
said. Now it was Jeremy’s stomach that quivered. The painter 
was in his way.
Jeremy looked at Carl, and Carl looked back. There was 
a second of silence as Jeremy did not know what to do. Then 
Jeremy remembered Paige Shannon’s laughing voice, and he
dropped the cigarette to the wet floor.
The painter saw him coming and raised his eyebrows. 
Jeremy grabbed the man’s collar and pushed him into a locker 
door even before anyone could react. He looked the painter 
squarely in the eye, formed a fist with his right hand and belted 
him with all of his strength. The locker door buckled under the 
pressure of the painter’s head slamming into it.
Slowly, Jeremy let the unconscious body slide to the tile 
floor, as Bill Sedlar who worked in assembly took the Lord’s 
name in vain. Jeremy turned and walked out the door with Carl 
following him closely.
Neither one of them said anything until they got into the 
employee parking lot where Jeremy’s Vega was sitting.
“Christ, I didn’t really mean for you to hit him,” Carl said 
to Jeremy when he unlocked the passenger side door. “I mean you 
could have killed the poor son of a bitch with your punch. I mean I 
was just trying to make you feel better.”
Jeremy looked at Carl and shook his head. “I wonder about 
you sometimes, Carl, I really do. You know that?” Jeremy sat 
down in the passenger side and slid over.
Carl said nothing.
“But you know, he looked really funny when he knew that 
he was going to get the shit beat out of him. Almost like he regret­
ted taking that slut off of my hands.” Jeremy laughed as the V-8 
came to sputtering life. “Do you think I hurt him?”
“Nah,” Carl answered, laughing. “The locker was ready to 
fall apart. He’ll be all right in the morning.”

---------------------------------------------------

Funeral Wrappings
In memory of O.E.
I am collecting carnations 
crosses, chants of A men, and
wrapping your life into one false 
promise. This emptiness humbles
me and I need a hot bath 
to wash out all live color except
white. White breasts of doves 
and tight white institutions.
I am fighting the earth 
with it’s layers that fold over
onto you; and the passion 
of this moment. I speak
voodoo into a mirror
and the wall of my breath chokes
my two images. Without you,
I am sinking in time and
your name is my anchor.
Candace Klein

---------------------------------------------------



---------------------------------------------------

OcChb•hng 1g9ab
The Girlfriend
He’s late. The numbers 
on the VCR glow twelve 
O-seven, A.M. in neon 
green, and she weeps 
in the dark, knees drawn tightly 
against her chest. The radio 
is playing Elton
John. It's never going to change,
she thinks, and then the telephone
shrills, and she tears
'it oft the hook. Hello?! Is
Bill there? No, wrong number. Alone
with her white Persian
cat, headlights Illuminate
the room, but it's just the neighbor
lady in her ancient
Chrysler. She huddles
under the atghan, hands
resting on the new swell
of her abdomen, wondering
what excuse he'll offer her this 
time, knowing whatever it is 
she must accept.

---------------------------------------------------

A Child's Elegy for BErnie and art
Christopher Coker
When BErnie and ert were killed, 
drowned in the gutter water in front 
of the corner house, Karen and I 
ran calling the guy a faggot. Everyone 
played in that water and got 
gutter sores, but not us; we
watched from the top of the steps. Boomer 
sucked that sewer water through a straw 
and dipped his cake in it on our dare.
His parents didn't care they gave 
him ten glasses of good water to drink 
and he came back out to play. Mom told us
if we gave BErnie and ert a shower
they'd live. We poured shampoo all over and inside
their thick rubber faces and hands and soaped
their stripped open torsos, it took two days for them
to dry on the line. When they were
dry we wouldn't piay with them because everytime
we'd stick our hands inside we felt a gutter sore forming.
We ran outside yelling, "Red haired faggot," 
for BErnie and ert.

---------------------------------------------------

Vol. 12 . No.2
fUnoyaniy onnz design
Vol. 12 No.2

---------------------------------------------------

sueSetSdn
Volume 85, Issue 7The Tartan, Carnegie Mellon University, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania22 October 1990
Issues
People describe coming out
By ALLISON DURAZZI
Tartan Asst. Features Editor
Not everyone was aware that the 
motto of National Coining Out Day is 
“Take your next step.” And not everyone 
is aware that a gay, lesbian, or bisexual 
person does not wake up one morning to 
a trumpet fanfare and say to himself or 
herself, “I’m gay.”
A gay person realizes he or she is gay. 
This is the first stage in the process 
called “coming out.” Even after this re­
alization, a gay person still has consid­
erable work ahead of him or her.
Imagine a lifetime of work, because 
once a gay people have “come out” to 
themselves, they must spend the rest of 
their lives not only with that realization. 
They must also continuously face the 
decision of which of their acquaintances 
should know and when they should be 
told.
The National Coming Out Day motto 
is indicative of the continuum of the
process of coming out. Lynn Clarke, an 
H&SS sophomore, feels that coming out 
is misrepresented by most people. “Alot 
of people have their misperceptions that 
coming out is a one day, one hour, one 
second event,” she said. Clarke, an 
H&SS student, came out in high school 
in the West Indies.
“It isn’t. It’s a process that usually 
starts with coming out to yourself, i.e., 
admitting to yourself that you are gay 
or that you are a lesbian and that that is 
okay, then moving from there, confront­
ing other things with relation to your 
sexuality — ‘embracing it’ as National 
Coming Out Day would say,” she said.
“You’re continually coming out to 
people because you interact with people 
everyday. This doesn’t mean that every 
time I meet someone I’m going to say 
‘Hi, I’m Lynn and I’m a lesbian,’ because 
I personally don’t think anybody’s sexu­
ality is anybody else’s business.... I’m 
not the type to go out there and make 
my being a lesbian known to everybody
If something comes up where that’s a 
topic, then fine, I’ll say it, and in that 
sense it’s coming out to whoe ver’s there, 
so it’s a continual life process.
Unlike Clarke and others who came 
out in their teens, senior art major 
Andrea Hirsh came out when she was 
21. “[Coming out to myself] was 
somewhat gradual,” Hirsh said. “I 
started to develop a more political, 
feminist consciousness.... It was po­
litical for me, to begin with, because I 
had to start deconstructing what was 
set up for me and I had to start thinking 
about why I had such a problem 
thinking about myself with women.
What followed, Hirsh said, was a 
period of introspection. “I was always 
always close to women, and although 
I had some really close male friends, 
which I still have, I didn’t understand 
why I couldn’t think of myself sexually 
with a woman. So I started trying to 
figure out what of all around society 
Please see COMING OUT, page L6
Gays unrepresented 
in Homecoming
By MARNIBOREK
1 Tartan Staffwriter
; The sky was the limit for 
cmuOUT at Carnegie Mellon 
University’s annual Homecoming 
Saturday, October 6th. While 
other student organizations wel­
comed their alumni with leaflets 
and donuts, the gay, lesbian, and 
bisexual group greeted their own 
alumni with a banner flown above 
campus by a hired plane. Ac­
cording to cmuOUT, the unusual 
greeting was necessary because 
the Alumni Relations Office was
uncooperative in advertising the 
group’s Homecoming event.
In what they described as a six 
week ordeal that included a let­
ter campaign and phone calls, 
cmuOUT felt they had met with 
resistance to welcoming their gay 
alumni in the manner they had 
wished. The group feels that As­
sociate Director of Alumni Rela­
tions, Susan Hernandez, was the 
contributing factor in their di­
lemma.
On August 20th, Donn 
Hoffman, CMU alum (H&SS ‘88), 
Please see HOMECOMING, page L6
Gays prohibited from 
entering ROTC
By RACHEL HAAS
Tartan Staffwriter
Carnegie Mellon has taken ac­
tion on the Department of 
¡Defense's policy of prohibiting gay 
¿students from entering the Re- 
erve Officers’ Training Corps. 
ijThe policy excludes “persons who 
¡‘engage in homosexual conduct or 
who, by their statements, dem­
onstrate a propensity to engage 
in homosexual conduct.”
William F. Elliott, vice presi­
dent for enrollment and chair of 
?ÇMU’s Human Relations Com­
mission, sent a letter dated Sep­
tember of this year to the Presi­
dent of the U.S. and the Depart­
ment of Defense, among other 
¡overnment institutions, and to
600 other colleges and universi­
ties to encourage a change in the 
military policy.
Elliott received a response from 
the Department of Defense stat­
ing that it had read the letter and 
has no plans to change the mili­
tary policy.
“We are doing all we can to 
encourage the military to change 
its policy,” Elliott said. However, 
that encouragement will not in­
clude disbanding ROTC at 
Carnegie Mellon if the federal 
policy continues, although, “that 
doesn’t mean we may not have 
plans in the future of disbanding 
it,” he said.
“Nearly 50 campuses around 
the country are fighting the 
Please see ROTC, page L7
D.A. Henderson/Tartan Darkroom Manager 
Two members of cmuOUT who requested to be anonymous participate in a dance held by cmuOUT last Saturday.
Gays are harassed for their 
choice of sexual orientation
Volouume85, from page l
When a Tartan staff reporter arrived 
jgt the scene shortly thereafter, five 
eshmen were found painting “live 
'ee, love free” over the first series of
comments.
When questioned about the turn of 
'vents, CFA freshman Julie Vinette 
;aid, “We happened by the Fence and 
sked [the first two painters] why they 
'ere painting that. One of them said, 
¦ecause we hate faggots.’ Rodney 
helps, CIT freshman] asked why, 
fry do you hate fags?’ and one of 
hem said, ‘Because I was born hating 
"Lgs. Then they started getting a little 
“‘tappy, a little violent, actually. They 
'anted to beat Rodney up.”
"Yeah,” said Phelps, “We tried to 
gue it out with them, and we called 
iem ‘homophobic,’ but he thought I 
as calling him ‘homosexual’ and he 
ped to punch me.
He really wanted to fight with me 
/pause; I feel that people should have 
1 fight to personal beliefs.”
James Phimister, a CIT freshman, 
d> He started pushing me, but his 
riend came over and and wrestled
111 away- He was yelling ‘faggots, get
out’ as his friend dragged him off 
toward Forbes.”
The identities of the two men could 
not be determined and they could 
not be reached for comment. Others 
repainting the fence were Walter 
Duncan, an MCS freshman, and 
Jesse Niedermann, a CIT freshman.
On Monday night, an unknown 
person or persons painted what was 
labeled a “generic fence.” The fence 
was supposed to be about nothing, 
according to the title; however, it 
contained political statements about 
animal rights, “Animals are people 
too,” and a response to National 
Coming Out Day, “Straights have 
rights too.”
Last Monday morning at approxi­
mately 2 am, a typed letter addressed 
“Dear fellow fag-haters” was found 
in a men’s bathroom on the fourth 
floor ofMorewood Gardens E-Tower. 
The bathroom had been marked by 
pro-gay-rights graffiti, and the letter 
was partially a response to the graf­
fiti. The letter also denigrated gays 
and gay rights, saying, “With all this 
Please see HARASSMENT, page L6
Tad Dockstader/Tartan Photo Editor 
Jesse Niederman, a freshman in CIT, paints over an anti-gay fence.
Analysis of apprehension 
towards homosexuality
By HOWDY PIERCE
Tartan Editor-in-Chief
Most college students are apprehensive about their 
own sexuality, making discussion about sexual orienta­
tion and sexuality all the more heated on campus, de­
velopment experts say. “Particularly at this stage of 
people’s lives, [they] get anxious about their own sexuality 
and about being with people who represent something 
that’s different,” says Lorrie Rabin, the director of Carnegie 
Mellon’s Counseling and Student Development Center. 
College-aged adults are often struggling with their own 
sexual identity, says Rabin, so it’s no wonder that heated 
and emotional debate surrounds gay-rights events like 
the recent National Coming Out Day. “People do fee] 
threatened, and they get upset,” she says. Dean of Stu­
dent Affairs Michael Murphy agrees. “Everyone’s ex­
ploring sexuality,” he says, and that makes rational 
discussion of gay-rights issues more challenging. Murphy 
cites a development theory known as the “wellness model,” 
which defines eight areas of personal development: social, 
occupational, spiritual, sexual, physical, intellectual, 
cultural, and emotional. “Fundamentally, two areas — 
spirituality and sexuality — impact people the most 
strongly during these years,” Murphy says. “If you think 
about areas where people are secure, the toleration [of 
discussion] is going to be much higher.” Part of the reason 
students question their spirituality and sexuality in col­
lege, says Murphy, is that traditional family environ­
ments don’t allow younger children to easily explore 
Please see ANALYSIS, page L6

---------------------------------------------------

L2The Tartan • Carnegie Mellon • 22 October 1990
PITTSBURGH^
Pittsburgh honors former mayor Richard Caliguiri
By DAN HOLLAND
Taran Staffwriter
Last Friday’s unveiling of the nine- 
foot bronze statue of former Mayor Ri­
chard Caliguiri pays tribute to a man of 
extraordinary talent, creativity, and 
courage. The artist, the world-renowned 
sculptor Robert Burke, is best noted for 
his busts of former President John F. 
Kennedy, Robert Kennedy, and Albert 
Einstein. According to family members, 
the statue of Caliguiri bears a remarkable 
resemblance to the man who continues 
to lead Pittsburgh into the 21st century.
Caliguiri died in May, 1988 and left 
behind an illustrious legacy. The statue 
not only commemorates a great visionary 
man; it symbolizes the continuation of 
his efforts to revitalize Pittsburgh’s 
neighborhoods, rebuild the downtown 
area, and bring back big businesses. 
Caliguiri was the guiding force that 
pushed Pittsburgh to become one of the 
nation’s best cities.
Caliguiri’s dreams to rejuvenate the 
city originated early in his life. His 
Hungarian-Italian roots stemmed from 
the tough blue-collar area of Greenfield 
which borders Squirrel Hill. He grew up 
with an appreciation for the strong 
community ties of Pittsburgh and with a 
humble personage, two traits that would 
form the cornerstone to his popular po­
litical style. His first aspiration was to 
become a tap dancer, but he also dreamed 
of changing the city—making it better.
¡This led a young Caliguiri to begin his 
3£ years with city government in 1956. 
HJe rose to the position of City Parks and 
Rlecreation Director, then was elected to 
tlie City Council in 1971. Soon after he 
took office, Caliguiri made an unsuc­
cessful run for mayor against Pete 
Flaherty. But Caliguiri learned quickly 
from his experiences. A loss meant he 
would try harder the next time around.
;ln 1977, Caliguiri became the City 
Council President and in the same year, 
he was elected as the 53rd mayor of 
Pittsburgh. In order to fulfill his dreams, 
he surrounded himself with energetic 
and ambitious aides who would collabo­
rate easily to produce a successful first 
term for the .mayor.
By his second term, Mayor Caliguiri 
drew upon community-based support for 
his political clout which led to his 
sweeping popularity. One poll taken 
showed 98% name recognition. Clearly, 
Caliguiri had made a name for himself in 
a short period of time. But the improve­
ments to the city were also major factors 
in his success.
Caliguiri’s vision and determination 
yielded overwhelming change in Pitts­
burgh, and was thus touted as Renais­
sance Two, reminiscent of Renaissance 
One directed by the former Mayor David 
L. Lawrence during the 1950s. Caliguiri 
made immense reforms to the city’s 
neighborhoods by promoting community 
celebrations, children’s festivals, and a 
new design for the Highland Park Zoo. 
Caliguiri established a strong sense of 
pride for the city and its neighborhoods.
The most visible and impressive
Alex Patho Jr./Tartan Photographer
The newly dedicated statue of late former Mayor Caliguiri now stands in front of the City County Building. Mayor Sophie Masloff is pictured on the left.
changes were made in the downtown 
area. Renaissance II added seven new 
skyscrapers to the city, a new convention 
center (named after David Lawrence), 
and improvements to Point State Park. 
The riverfront areas rapidly gave way to 
new developments as the steel mills shut 
down.
He reorganized city government, ad­
justed its finances, and firmly entrenched 
a sense of honesty and a home grown 
style of politics among the people. The 
mayor could always be seen at commu­
nity functions, and sporting events, and 
he marched in about 50 parades a year. 
He started the Great Race and the Pitts­
burgh Marathon which have become 
national events.
When the Pirates were in danger of 
being sold, Mayor Caliguiri worked hard 
to raise the money to keep them in town.
He was good friends with Steelers’ owner 
and Pittsburgh native Art Rooney, whose 
team earned the city two Super Bowl 
trophies under Caliguiri’s leadership; the 
Pirates brought home a World Series 
title as well.
Tragedy fell upon the mayor in 1987. 
He was diagnosed with a rare and incur­
able disease, amyloydosis, which formed 
protein deposits in his heart. On May 6, 
1988, Caliguiri was stricken with a fatal 
heart attack. The city was shocked. City 
council members, close friends, family, 
and especially the people of Pittsburgh 
felt the pain of losing a man dear to them 
all. They had lost a true Pittsburgher 
who had transformed the city from a 
dying steel town into a gleaming high- 
technology corporate center.
I knew his eldest son Greg well at the 
mayor’s high school alma mater, Taylor
Allderdice, in Squirrel Hill. People al­
ways admired Greg, perhaps even en­
vied him for being the mayor’s son, but 
there was also a sense of respect for him. 
Greg was not conceited; he was humble 
and good natured like his father. When 
Mayor Caliguiri died, the whole school 
felt Greg’s loss and lamented the mayor’s 
death as if he was everyone’s father.
The mayor had that effect on people. 
He was very personable, easy going, yet 
committed to hard work and creativity. 
His dreams still continue to bear fruit 
today. Caliguiri envisioned a new science 
center adjacent to Three Rivers Stadium,
a high technology center on the former 
J&L Steel mill site, and an economic 
development project on the North Side, 
all which are in the early stages of conn 
stmction.
In 1985, Rand McNally dubbed Pitts­
burgh number one in the nation for liv 
ability. It may have caught some people 
off guard, but to Caliguiri, such a title 
epitomized the true essence of Renais­
sance II. The statue is the city’s way of 
saying thanks to a statesman, a politi­
cian, a father, a friend and a fellow citi­
zen who made people proud to say they 
are from Pittsburgh.
Alex Patho Jr./Tartan Photographer
Greg and David Caliguiri address the audience during the dedication of the statue of their father.
Alex Patho Jr./Tartan PhotogiW" 
The Very Rev. Anthony Bosco, the Bishop of Greensburg, speaks to the crowd.

---------------------------------------------------

The Tartan • Carnegie Mellon • 22 October 1990L3
Recent crimes spur rape prevention seminar
hyTRUPTIPATEL
I fdrtan Asst. Features Editor
Imagine working late into the 
|n!ght on a computer program in 
/¿an Hall or writing a paper until 
13 am in the Apple Orchard of 
lunt Library. The work is done, 
1tii you are happy but tired as 
you set out to walk back to your 
jorm room to catch a couple of 
bburs of sleep. You are completely 
Unaware that someone is lurking 
the shadows of the academic 
buildings; the person is waiting 
Ifqr you and watching you. You 
afe caught off guard when the 
person appears from nowhere and 
aiks you for a light. You say you
don’t have one and attempt to 
keep walking but the person 
shoves you forcefully into the 
shadows and rapes you.
The fact is that this is a realistic 
scenario on college campuses 
throughout the country, includ­
ing Carnegie Mellon.
The scenario represents a 
woman's worst nightmare come 
true but it does not depict the 
most common conditions under 
which rape occurs. Though both 
men and women can be victims of 
rape, the vast majority of rape 
victims are women and assail­
ants are mostly men. Thus, vic­
tims of rape are generally referred 
to as females and the assailants
are referred to as males.
A much more shocking but likely 
setting would be if a casual friend 
walked a woman home from the 
library at 3 am and proceeded to 
rape her in her own dorm room.
Regardless of which circum­
stance is more common, the truth 
is that both of these types of rape, 
acquaintance and stranger rape, 
occur in significant numbers on 
college campuses
Dr. Andrea Parrot of Cornell 
University states in the pamphlet 
“Avoiding Rape. On and Off Cam­
pus” that, “At least one quarter of 
all college women will experience 
sexual assault by an acquaintance 
during or before college.” Ac­
quaintance rape is defined by the 
Pennsylvania Coalition Against 
Rape (PCAR) as a form of rape in 
which the victim knows the as­
sailant and the assailant uses “.. 
. physical force, emotional bar­
gaining, blackmail, or mind games 
to force sexual intercourse.” 
Frighteningly enough, it is esti­
mated that at least 80% of all 
rapes which occur are acquain­
tance rapes.
However, it is also believed that, 
on the average, only 10-20% of all 
rapes are even reported. This can 
be attributed to the degrading 
and humiliating nature of being a 
rape victim; most women do not 
want to have to report such a
crime because they think the 
crime is their fault.
Acquaintance rapes most com­
monly occur in dating or romantic 
situations. PCAR maintains that 
the reason that rapes occur in 
dating situations is that men are 
taught to exercise sexually ag­
gressive behavior. PCAR also feels 
that males are raised to believe 
that a woman means “yes” when 
she says “no.” On the other hand, 
they say women are often raised 
with the idea that flirting is a 
harmless game while female 
flirting often conveys confusing 
or mixed signals to male counter­
parts.
After a recent string of rapes
and sexual’ assault cases in the 
Oakland/Shadyside area during 
the past few months, Carnegie 
Mellon’s administration is at­
tempting to do something to pro­
mote rape prevention programs.
At a recent seminar on stranger ; 
and acquaintance rape held by 
the Women’s Center, Katie 
Stannard also cited miscommu- 
nication and misconception of sex 
roles as major roadblocks to rape 
prevention. Stannard, assistant 
to Dean of Student Affairs Michael 
Murphy, heads CMU’s campaign 
to educate and enlighten both 
male and female students about 
campus rape.
Please see PREVENTION, page L5
>r. Abbas Ali lectures on American policy and Saddam Hussein’s role in Iraq
gy ROBERT WYNER
\[artan Staffwriter
¡On Wednesday, October 17, the 
tjkcnegie Mellon Political Speak- 
|eis Forum hosted Indiana Uni­
versity of Pennsylvania professor 
Dr. Abbas Ali. Having lived in 
ijraq for twenty-three years, Dr. 
Ji gave students a chance to see 
, Iraqi’s view on the crisis tak- 
r place in the Persian Gulf. His 
b|tent was to promote a deeper 
liiiderstanding of the Arab people 
ho that Americans will be more 
Sensitive to the consequences of 
fcjeir actions in the Middle East 
aiid support a peaceful resolution 
»¡.the present crisis.
In order to depict the Arab 
jj^rspective on the situation in 
b|e Persian Gulf, he explained 
|h[e major concerns and desires of 
his people. He claims that the 
Vrabs want democracy. Ali main­
tained that the monarchies which 
presently control several Arab 
states are in blatant conflict with 
the laws of their holy book, the 
Koran, which clearly condemns 
the concept of a royal family and 
the inheritance of power. In 1914, 
the British promised Shariv 
Hussein, the grandfather of 
Jordan’s King Hussein, that if he 
helped them fight the Turks, a 
united Arab state would be es­
tablished.
Two years later, the British 
broke their promise by dividing 
the Arabs into small states against 
their will and appointing tribal 
leaders as kings. According to Ali, 
the intent of the British was to 
weaken the Arabs by isolating 
the wealth of their oil resources in 
small states such as Yeman, the 
United Arab Emirates, and Ku­
wait. The Arab pride and nation­
alistic spirit has been offended by
this invasion of their rights and is 
now being offended again with 
the presence of foreign troops on 
their land.
Ali continued by saying that 
nationalistic sentiment has 
caused many Arabs to support 
Saddam Hussein. They can over­
look his brutal methods because 
he has made himself the symbol 
of their pride by standing up to 
the West.
If the United States were to 
attack Iraq, Saddam Hussein 
would become the hero of the Arab 
world despite inevitable military 
defeat. Furthermore, he allows 
equal access to national wealth 
unlike the monarchs in states such 
as Kuwait.
Dr. Ali, who has had three 
brothers imprisoned by Saddam 
Hussein, did not try to make him 
seem like a great guy but was 
merely trying to make his audi­
ence understand this leader’s ap­
peal to the Arab people.
Dr. Ali criticized U.S. involve­
ment in the gulf. He stated the 
three motives of U.S. interven­
tion:
1. To divert the attention of the 
American public away from in­
ternal problems.
2. To establish itself as the cen­
tral world power now that the 
Soviet Union has declined.
3. To support the nation’s de­
fense industry and to avoid a 
major economic recession. “If you 
are going to be a world power, you 
must practice it,” says Dr. Ali
He predicts that the only vic­
tors of this costly war would be 
those who sell tools of death and 
destruction. He also criticized the 
U.S. for its inconsistent support 
of democracy. While the U.S. sup­
ports democracy in Eastern Eu­
rope and Central America, it sup­
ports oppressive dictatorships, 
which clearly conflict with 
American ideals, in the Middle 
East.
Dr. Ali suggests a three part 
solution to the Persian Gulf Cri­
sis:
1. The United Nations and the 
Arab League should supervise the 
withdrawal of Iraqi troops from 
Kuwait.
2. Elections should be held to 
establish a new government un­
der the supervision of the United 
Nations and the Arab League.
3. The U.S. should use its power 
to encourage freedom and democ­
racy and should make it clear to 
the Arab people that it does not 
want to destroy their culture or to 
exploit their resources.
Dr. Ah openly admits that the 
Iraqi invasion of Kuwait was a 
mistake, but insists that for the 
United States to attack Iraq would
also be a mistake. His main con­
cern is to avoid a war that would 
result in the death of an esti­
mated one million Iraqis and 
10,000 Americans on the first day 
alone. He feels that if America is 
sensitive to the culture and to the 
desires of the Arab people, a 
peaceful solution can be achieved. 
While hoping for a peaceful solu­
tion, Dr. Ali expects that if within 
the next three weeks, no solution 
is reached, the U.S. will attack 
Iraq.
For those interested in learning 
more about the Persian Gulf cri­
sis, there will be a program fea­
turing several speakers, includ­
ing the noted Middle East expert 
professor Richard Cottam, on 
Tuesday, October 23, 1990 at the 
Community of Reconciliation on 
5th Ave. and Bellefield St. in¦¦ 
Oakland, 3 to 9 pm.
|-oyCStdC IAUtUSt
Alcohol related incidents and 
I \iccidents have been highly pub- 
I licized and criticized on college 
I 'campuses throughout the coun- 
Wry.
In an effort to alleviate many. 
I jif the problems of alcohol abuse, 
| jnany college campuses, includ- 
J \ng Carnegie Mellon, have 
J Established education pro- 
| jframs on alcohol.
Several alcohol awareness 
I events including a demonstra- 
1 iioTi on how alcohol impairs the 
| body occured last week during 
HNational Alcohol Awareness
I Week.
--This week, The Tartan asked
9 students whether they believed
9 that students were actually 
J aware of the fact that CMU of-
II fered programs during Alcohol 
|Au;are7iess Week and if they 
1 thought that students were 
| aware of substance abuse.
Patricia Gardner 
Senior, CFA
“I had no idea that there was a 
program. As to whether or not 
people are aware of substance 
abuse, yes, they are. National 
media has a lot to do with that.”
Norma Nieto 
Sophomore, IM/CIT
“I think people did know it was 
going on. There were a lot of signs, 
I don’t think people really think 
of substance abuse on college 
campuses. They just consider 
drinking a part of college.”
Scottie Dog 
Mascot
“People are aware of alcohol 
abuse. I don’t know if people re­
ally adhered to theprogram. Also, 
it’s nice for people to know about 
the program, but what active 
things were done to educate 
people?”
Scott Zucker 
Senior, IM
“The program was unheard of 
at the fraternities and the off 
campus residence halls. They 
never said what the program was 
about. Were they going to teach 
which alcohols were what?”
Guy Paquette/Tartan Photographer 
Rob Harris 
Senior, H&SS
“I know some students were 
aware of the program. I also 
know that some students know 
it’s a problem, whether they do 
something about it or not.
Starting Today And All This Week ...
Happening Daily in the Tartan Lounge. 
Come by and study relax, enjoy food and drink. 
Coffee, Tea, Cider and a variety of 
refreshments will be available.
Monday, October 22 through Friday, October 26 
2:00 - 5:00 pm and 7:00 - 10:00 pm
Sponsored by the Division of Student Affairs and Scotland Yard
n&.

---------------------------------------------------

The Tartan • Carnegie Mellon • 22 October 1990
Help! Rescue Halloween from the Dry Heaves
For three weeks I’ve been 
watching nauseating commercials 
advertise the latest ‘new wave’ 
crap to be given out on Hallow- 
"een. Now, with one of my favorite 
holidays rapidly approaching, I 
figure it's my civil duty to give 
some warnings and advice before 
..Halloween ‘90 is spoiled alto­
gether.
First, I issue a red alert to all 
you trick-or-treaters who expect
¦ the usual classic goods to be doled 
out this year as they have in the 
past—Should a yuppie mom hand 
you a pack of New Kids on the 
Block Bubble Gum Trading Cards, 
or any form of Ninja Turtle candy 
while you stand at her doorstep, 
follow these 3 steps:
1. Run directly home.
2. Flush them down the toilet.
3. Ifvomiting induces, call your 
physician immediately.
I can’t speak for all the deprived 
children in this country who, by 
flicking on the tube each Satur­
day morning, are forced to grow 
up watching the Care Bears coop­
erate and slide down rainbows 
until gushing with the pus of 
friendship.
" However, the fact that these 
kids are buying into this turtle 
bullshit doesn’t mean that we who 
know better can do nothing but 
sit back and watch an event as 
-sacred as Halloween become 
¦transformed into some sick hy-
¦ brid of its former self. In order to 
save Halloween this year, there 
'are some vital treats which must 
continue to fill the bags of
WHATEVER HAPPENED TO 
PLATINUM BLONDES?
_______by Andrew Cosentino
America’s youth.
Let’s start with Candy Com. 
Going through the motions of 
Halloween without Candy Corn 
is like stroking a cat in the wrong 
direction — YOU JUST DON’T 
DO IT! Enough said.
And what about those smooth 
rolls of Smarties we’ve all come to 
love? Has anyone considered the 
significance of those pastel-col­
ored sugar pills lately? Didn’t 
think so.
To all the poor souls out there 
who have ever been hooked on the 
scrumptious baby aspirin put out 
by Johnson & Johnson, its com­
mon knowledge that a steady dose 
of Smarties is to baby aspirin what 
methadone is to heroin. Or, if it’s 
that extra boost of energy you 
crave, don’t waste your money on 
caffeine pills. For instant hyper­
activity that tastes great going 
down, just add Smarties.
This is candy with backbone, 
folks. This is candy around which 
the legend of All Hallow’s Eve 
was built. Warrior reptiles in 
their teens have absolutely no 
place among this stuff.
While we’re on the topic of rolled
candy, let us not let Neccos go by 
unnoticed. Ah Neccos, the only 
candy that tastes like cooking 
spices. To this day, I’ll bet the 
ranch that brown Neccos are made 
with rosemary and bay leaf. Drop 
a brown Necco the size of a poker 
chip into a pot of tomato sauce 
and without ever having opened 
the spice cupboard, you’ll have 
little Dominic coming back for 
thirds on his knees. I remember 
years when on'the Sunday after 
Halloween, my entire neighbor­
hood was filled with the aroma of 
Mama Necco’s Spaghetti Sauce. 
But if something isn’t done soon, 
the multi-faceted Necco will be 
just another name on the growing 
list of extinct Halloween candy. If 
something isn’t done soon, not a 
solitary Necco will grace the pal­
ate of a trick-or-treater from 
Manhattan all the way to Santa 
Fe.
Are we going to just sit back 
while Mary Janes and Sugar 
Daddys are replaced by some 
candy promoted by prepubescent 
pop singers? Think of the trauma 
that Mary Jane has single- 
handedly saved the children of 
this nation by removingloose baby 
teeth as easily as pulling carrots 
out of moist topsoil. The ‘New 
Kids’ can’t hold a nightlight to 
these age-old chewy delights.
If you’ll allow me to get side­
tracked for a moment, I think one 
of the most controversial aspects 
of Halloween has to do with ring­
ing a doorbell, saying ‘trick or 
treat’just like you’re supposed to,
... nro #a9n nran nroCo :UeC ayo wiBUtl UtnS nrUC niynfo 
wiffCrUn eSoCtdn koat nran mo mrS :tSm wonnoy 9at eS “ 
tSnrUtl win CUn wa9: ate man9r at oVotn aC Ca9yoe aC 
1affSmoot wo9Sko nyatC#Sykoe UtnS CSko CU9: rBwyUe S# 
UnC #Sykoy Cof#— ____
and walking away with a piece of 
fruit. I’ve got news for all you 
health-conscious neighbors out 
there: Contrary to whatever de­
lusions you may have about Hal­
loween, people don’t get dressed 
up in costumes and walk around 
for hours in the cold for produce! 
I used to get all worked up over 
this issue, but it really doesn’t 
bother me anymore. Just as it’s 
nice to wake up Christmas Day to 
the sight of snow on the ground, 
it’s equally nice to look out the 
window on the morning after 
Halloween to see the lawns of the 
healthier families in the neigh­
borhood festively decorated with 
apples and pennies.
With a list of irreplaceable Hal­
loween candy which could stretch 
to the moon and back, a fistfull of 
pennies just doesn’t cut the mus­
tard. Give the kids Pell Mell 
candy cigarettes (with red tips), 
Tootsie Pops, candy necklaces, 
Sweet Tarts, Circus Peanuts, 
rainbow-colored dots stuck to pa­
per — the good stuff.
But if you must give out some­
thing new this year, there are 
other routes to take besides those 
which lead to the demise of Hal­
loween. One of the companies on
the cutting edge of brand new and 
classic candy production is Willy 
Wonka. Aside from his celebrated 
Nerds, Wonka’s genius in other 
areas of drugstore candy has, for 
the most part, yet to be discov­
ered by much of the country. Part 
of the problem is that Wonka is 
way ahead of his time. Some of 
his creations are so advanced that 
they will not be appreciated by 
the masses for many centuries to 
come.
Without doubt, Wonka achieves 
success by appealing to the sour 
sector of the candy-eating popu­
lation. His Dinasour Eggs, Nerds, 
Tart-n-Tiny’s, Guppies with 
Aquarium Rocks, and Runts are 
all high on the scale of saliva- 
inducing sweets. Plus, for all those 
people who thrive on confusion, 
the crafty Wonka has thrown a 
huge curve into the candy busi­
ness by offering consumers Mix- 
Ups, what I consider to be the 
most mind boggling form of 
gobstopper known to man. Get 
this. The red ones taste like ei­
ther green, purple, yellow, or or­
ange. The green ones taste like 
either yellow, red, orange, or 
purple. You get the picture. With 
Mix-Ups, Mr. Wonka has simply
outdone himself.
My final suggested candy; f0r 
Halloween ‘90 has got to. [ 
Razzles. At this moment, Razzlt 
are considered by some experts to 
be the 8th Wonder of the World. 
You see, for half the time a Razzli 
is in the mouth of its consumer, it 
feels and tastes like any other 
hard candy. But after aboutj;i 
minutes, as if it had a mind qf its 
own, the Razzle miraculously 
changes form and turns itself into 
a piece of chewing gum. Just how 
this feat is accomplished 
puzzled some of the greatest'sci-! 
entists of our time. One scientific 
theory equates a Razzle’s trans­
formation from hard candy into
gum with the metamorphasiaofa
caterpillar into a butterfly. &ut 
scientists critical of the theory 
“just can’t see how this species of 
Razzle, in its hard candy state 
could possibly form a cocoon on 
the roof of the mouth in such a 
short amount of time.” Hence 
the world is left to continually 
ponder the philosophical question: 
is it gum, or is it candy?
Andrew Cosentino is a sopho­
more in H&SS who, on Oct. 31, 
will be a bum.
¦West Virginia: sleeping with pollution in our backyard
»By MEGAN DIETZ
««Tartan Staffwriter
In Tuesday’s installment of the 
President’s Lecture Series, “Different 
Shades of Green: Environmental Stew­
ardship and the Pursuit of Economic 
Development,” West Virginia State 
Senator Chuck Chambers spoke about 
the necessity of reconciling environmen­
tal and economic goals. Using his home 
state as an example, Chambers discussed 
problems which may be encountered as 
well as solutions which may be effective.
According to Chambers, West 
Virginia’s environmental problems 
started back in the early 1900s during 
! America’s industrial boom. Since much 
‘ of West Virginia’s land is too hilly and 
acidic for farming, the state grew to de­
pend upon industry as its only source of 
economic growth and developed an ex­
tremely undiversified economy. Thus, 
when industry experienced crises, like 
the Stock Market Crash of ‘29 or the 
Recession of the ‘80s, West Virginia had 
no other base for its economy and thus
suffered more than most states with eco­
nomic factors on which they could de­
pend other than big industry.
In the 1980s, the state was forced to 
relax environmental regulations in or­
der to attract more industry. As shown in 
a slide presentation by Chambers, the 
state is now paying the price. “West 
Virginia has over 30,000 miles of rivers 
and streams. Industrial pollution has 
killed 3,000 of those miles,” said Cham­
bers.
Another factor contributing to the 
problems in West Virginia is the dis­
honesty of several state politicians. The 
state’s former governor is now serving 
time for political corruption.
According to Chambers, some ques­
tionable business deals were made with 
companies in order to attract them to the 
state, and the environment is now suf­
fering for it.
A large part of West Virginia’s envi­
ronmental degradation problem is acid 
mine drainage, a condition resulting from 
coal-produced pollution of ground water 
. The contaminated water starts seeping
through cracks in the ground and pol­
lutes the water above. Damage caused 
by acid mine drainage is usually irrepa­
rable. The only solution to this problem 
is prevention.
In order to address its environmental 
problems, West Virginia has imple­
mented new legislature which forces the 
state to have environmental protection 
plans even more stringent than those set 
up by the national government. Cham­
bers is particularly glad that this piece of 
legislation passed, because when he first 
introduced it in 1978, “I got one vote— 
my own. My bill was defeated, 99—1.”
West Virginia is making strides in 
reconciling economic and environmental 
issues, but there is still much to do. 
Chambers feels that the state is up to the 
challenge.
Says Chambers, “This is the 90s, the 
‘Decade of the Environment’.... The goals 
of economic development and environ­
mental protection are not mutually ex­
clusive. The public has used the power of 
the pocketbook to show that they will not 
allow them to be.”KIshor Rao/Tartan Photograph« 
Senator Chuck Chambers lectures on West Virginia’s environmental politics.
Career Opportunities at Morgan
for Carnegie Mellon students 
interested in/
. V.
Research
Sales
Trading
Please plan to attend our 
information presentation on 
; Thursday.; October 25 
5:00 pm 
Skibo ¡loom 45 
.111 majors welcome
Confirm the time and location with your placement office 
J.l*. Morpin is an equal opportunity employer
JP Morgan
687-7777 Dine in, Carry Out, and Catering
Fifth Ave.
s.
Filmore
c
r
parkingYum
Wok
a
i
g
Forbes Ave.
CMU
400 South Craig Street Oakland
(Near Cathedral of Learning)
Mon. - Sat. 11:00 am -10:00 pm 
Carry-out Parking All Hours.
Nearby Free Parking after 5:00 pm and Weekends

---------------------------------------------------

The Tartan • Carnegie Mellon • 22 October 1990L5
Shopping can be the difference between life and death
It all started last summer when 
I happened to walk in on a conver­
sation between two friends of 
mine. They were discussing the 
merits of different brands of 
breakfast cereals. The conversa­
tion went something along these 
Unes:
‘“Bran And Nut Flakes’ is a
__better cereal, its got less choles-
” Terol.”
“No, “Nut And Brand Flakes’ is 
better, they don’t have as much
¦ sugar.”
. “Yes, but they’ve got raisins 
which are just as bad. Besides 
' ‘Bran And Nut Flakes’ uses whole 
oat bran which cures cancer, I 
'think.”
Eventually, inevitably I sup­
pose, they asked me for my opin­
ion on this touchy subject. I always 
’ feel that honesty in these sorts of 
¡¦situations is very important, even 
ojf it does make you look like an 
idiot, so I responded, “Cocoa 
''-Pebbles”.
Often I have heard the expres­
sion "if looks could kill” bandied
JASON SPEAKS
by Jason Lee Smith
around rather casually, but be­
fore this moment I do not think I 
had really felt its true signifi­
cance. My two friends looked at 
me as if I had said “French Fried 
Baby Seals, with a side order of 
Smurfs”.
I spent the rest of the day sitting 
in a comer reading the paper.
After this incident, I became 
cognizant of a paranoia which is 
gripping our country. It is the 
fear that the foods we eat are 
slowly poisoning us. It seems that 
whatever foods we’re not taking 
cholesterol out of, we’re putting 
oat-bran into.
We’re becoming a nation of sis­
sies. It seems that a food company
can’t manufacture a new product 
without the FDA, “Sixty Minutes”, 
Ralph Nader, or any one of the 
other multitude of individuals 
dedicated to making people more 
socially aware (and, as a conse­
quence, less happy) jumping down 
their throats.
For me, the last straw was when 
I bought a bottle of soda. There 
was a warning label on the side 
saying that the contents was un­
der pressure and might explode. 
Big deal, tell me something I don’t 
know.
This is a danger that mankind 
has been living with since the 
invention of the soda bottle, yet 
this was the first time in my life 
that I had seen such a warning. 
What provoked this warning? Was 
there a soda related death which 
didn’t get reported in the news? 
More importantly, do we so mis­
trust our potables that we expect 
them to turn on us, the first chance 
they get.
Much disturbed by this inci­
dent, I conned my friend Martha
Underwood, into giving me a lift 
to the food store so that I could see 
what other food anomolies I could 
find.
The first thing I came upon, as 
I entered this shopping Mecca, 
was the candy section. This was 
fortunate, because I wanted to 
check out a product I had always 
been fascinated with — diet 
chocolate. I had always been cu­
rious how candy-makers could 
make these things look and taste 
just like chocolate, while not let­
ting the consumer gain any 
weight.
Looking at the label, I saw an­
other hated warning, it said “Ex­
cess consumption may cause 
laxative effect.” I’ve always like 
to live life on the edge, so I bought 
a bar. After research, I would like 
to report that this is one warning 
which is not misplaced; if any­
thing, it was too mild. By excess 
consumption they actually mean 
half a square.
I was expecting to find nothing 
even the slightest bit unusual in
the produce department, but I 
was mistaken. I saw a sign, it was 
not a warning, it was more of a 
reassurance, but still, it disturbed 
me greatly. It read “All Of Our 
Produce Was Grown In Phos­
phate-Free Soil.” “Bully for you,” 
I thought.
I must have been out sick the 
day that they decided phosphates 
could kill you. I think it’s rather 
unfair, all things considered. With 
all the other unappetizing things 
in the earth, why should phos­
phates be singled out? After all, 
what makes them any worse than 
nuclear waste, or raw sewage.
The juice section was just plain 
funny. Most fruit juices I found 
contained little if any real juice in 
them. Most labels say something 
like this, “More Juice contains 10% 
REAL fruit juice!” I figure this is 
just another part of our nation’s 
health consciousness, of which I 
hadn’t previously been aware. I 
guess it was only a matter of time 
before researchers discovered that 
too much “REAL fruit juice” was
bad for children. It was nice of 
manufacturers to pitch in like that 
and remove so much of it from 
their drinks.
Finally, disgusted, Martha and
I left the food emporium. If you’ll 
allow me to play the part' of 
Nostrodamus for a moment, I 
would like to present some of my 
predictions about changes which 
we’ll soon see in the food indus­
try: McDonald’s will come out with 
Tofu burgers served on 100% oat' 
bran rolls. Cows will become en­
dangered species, since every part 
of their body will be deemed 
harmful to man, environmental­
ists will develop an “Its them or 
us” attitude, and attempt to kill 
them all off.
Finally, there will be one posi­
tive aspect of all this health con­
sciousness- cholesterol provoked 
heart attacks will no longer be a 
major cause of death in America, 
malnutrition will.
Jason Lee Smith is a sophomore 
in CIT
‘From strangers to friends, rape prevention remains necessary
nnCl/CMTinW frnm n o r~{ ft I O „ J-.' —. ,1 —.__ ^ 1J_. —. T T ,1 „X* _• 1. ____i. ___j________ T ’ j__H ' - il- jjl. _ -i'll (* i j .1. i 1 11 i • 1 , i iPREVENTION, from page L3
Stannard noted that holding 
seminars on rape and advertising 
in The Tartan are two avenues of 
'""‘educating that Student Affairs 
’"has already taken. Chris Bayuk, 
!ilua representative of the Allegheny 
County Center for Victims of Vio­
lent Crime, stated that CMUs 
^ campaign is important because 
“The whole issue of prevention is 
not for women, it’s for society as a 
whole.” In addition, it must be 
noted that CMU is targeting 
males more so than females for 
rape education.
- Along with the Division of Stu­
dent Affairs, campus security is 
taking an active role in rape pre­
vention and counseling. Head of 
Campus Security Jim LaPaglia 
stated that although it would not 
be wise for women to work in 
isolated areas of the campus late 
at night, campus police are on call 
24 hours a day to escort anyone 
home.
He cited the main problem as 
the fact that students rarely take 
advantage of the availability of 
police escorts.
LaPaglia also added, “There 
hasn’t been a rape reported on 
this campus since 1985. That’s 
just impossible. Although we 
would like to think that nothing 
of that nature has happened on 
this campus, the numbers just
don’t match up to reality.”
He continued by stating cam­
pus security offers an immediate 
counseling program for rape vic­
tims.
Because campus police are not 
usually experienced in rape 
couseling, they contact the Al­
legheny County Center for Vic­
tims of Violent Crime to handle 
the cases.
Bayuk remarked that the cen­
ter appoints an advocate for the 
rape victim who works with the 
victim in order to gather evidence 
for court cases. She added that 
new rape laws have been enacted 
in order to make prosecution 
easier for the victim. These laws
APPROVED 
Majors, Double Majors and Minors in 
Industrial Management and Economics
Early Departmental Pre-preregistration: Oct. 29 - Nov 2 
Fill in your form, drop it off and pick it up later! 
GSIA Room 206 
Go over your requirements ahead of time!
Open office hours to advising:
October 22-26
Walk - ñt TiiáoiHiit;
Sunday through Thursday 8-11 p.m.
Calculus Well 5403
Physics Well 5427
Chemistry Well 5205
Academic Writing WeH 5205
Intro to Computing WeH 5415
Hie Place To Turn
include that the reputation of the 
victim (i.e. substance abuse or 
promiscuous behavior) cannot be 
used in the defense of the assail­
ant.
In a college campus environ­
ment, LaPaglia said, “It would be 
best if the victim let campus po­
lice know about what happened. 
Student Affairs can then take 
immediate action to either expel 
or suspend the alleged assailant 
and the victim will not have to 
deal with seeing that person’s face 
each and every day.”
Some simple common sense 
tactics which students have heard 
before are essential in establish­
ing personal as well as public
safety. Students should never 
prop doors of dorms or apartments 
open and should keep their dorm 
rooms locked, especially at night. 
In addition, people should not 
walk home alone late at night and 
should always be aware of their 
surroundings no matter whattime 
of day it is.
However, there are also other, 
less known tactics which can be 
used for rape prevention:
1. Say “no” if you mean “no”; 
remember to say it forcefully and 
back it up with a strong warning.
2. Trust your instincts. If you 
are sexually attracted to a person 
but feel uncomfortable with the 
situation, think carefully before
you decide to go somewhere alone 
with the person or go on a date 
with them.
3. Avoid the excessive use of 
alcohol and/or drugs because that 
tends to put people in vulnerable 
situations. (Men should remem­
ber that intoxication cannot- be 
used as defense in a rape case. A 
woman cannot consent if she is 
intoxicated)
4. Be responsible for your own 
behavior and be careful about the 
messages which you are sending 
out to the other person involved.
The Center for Victims of Vio­
lent Crime has a 24 hour hot line 
at 392-8582.
$ FORBIDDEN FORTUNE $
$30,000.00 PER MONTH EVERY MONTH!
Dear Friend,
1 challenge you to join me In a totally 
"UNIQUE” Money-Making venture that 
could change your life forever, and show you 
how to begin earning 530,000.00 vdn .Shefa 
dGdnA .Shef# I GUARANTEE Mmc w (See The 
$50.00 Challenge) w f_Gd —_:g S,e ef:b v—_h :h 
Nnd_e gde_:— :h _ bedv tA b—dv ._h,_— ef_e dGdh 
_ uf:—g uS,—g pS——Sz# M VhSz _ o- Ad_n S—g 
zS._h :h F—Sn:g_ zfS v,nuf_bdg .A ._h,_— 
_hg —_be .Shef bfd ._gd SGdn C2r#lll#ll# 
6S, uS,—g td hd8ec 3_be .Shef M ._gd 
C22ar12#-1 W,be tA zSnV:hN wr fS,nb vdn 
zddV# mf:b .Shef M d8vdue eS d_nh SGdn 
121alll#ll _hg e_Vd _ 2 zddV G_u_e:Sh :h 
H_z_::# mf:b vnSNn_. f_b hdGdn tddh Sppdndg 
tdpSnd _hg M z:—— hSe Sppdn :e _N_:h# 6S, 
u_hhSe _ppSng eS v_bb ,v ef:b SvvSne,h:eA# 
This revolutionary .ShdAB._V:hN .defSg :b 
:h gd._hg dGdnAzfdnda Ade pdz vdSv—d dGdh 
VhSz :e d8:beb# P:ef:h 2l g_Ab AS, u_h td 
dhWSA:hN $30,000.00 _ .Shefa every month. 
IShRe Envy .d Join .dc
M._N:hda hdGdn _N_:h f_G:hN eS zSnnA 
_tS,e AS,n p:h_hu:_— be_e,b# M._N:hd 
v,nuf_b:hN ef_e bvdu:_— fS.d pSn AS,n p_.:—A 
Sn gn:G:hN _ En_hg 4dz 0dnudgdb# U—— ef:b 
_hg .,uf .Snd _nu hSz vSbb:t—d pSn AS, eS 
_uf:dGda Oz:ef .A d_bA eS pS——Sz Id—,8d 
QnSNn_.# Pfdh AS, Sngdn .A Id—,8d 
QnSNn_. eSg_Aa M z:—— Sppdn AS, Fx>>a 
,h—:.:edga ed—dvfShd uShb,—e_e:Sh# Mhu—,gdg 
:h .A ._h,_— :b .A ,hv,t—:bfdg vfShd 
h,.tdn pSn AS,n vdnbSh_— ,bd# 9_—— _hAe:.d 
_hg M z:—— td f_vvA eS fd—v AS, z:ef _hA 
L,dbe:Shb#
No, this has nothing to do with Real 
Eatnte, playing the Lottery or Gambling. It :b
Q>xF>9m36 3>kU3 _hg gSub hSe ndL,:nd 
_ bvdu:_— e_—dhe Sn —ShN fS,nb# MeRb GdnA 
,h,b,_— _hg ,h:L,d—A gdb:Nhdg pSn d_uf 
vdnbSh ef_e ,bdb :e# mfdnd :b hS Jp_uu 10 p_ud7 
bd——:hN Sn —_nNd :hGdbe.dhe ndL,:ndg# MeRb _ 
J0ShdA 0_V:hN QnSNn_.7 ef_e f_b _ vnSGdh 
nduSng _hg :e :b d8end.d—A vnSp:e_t—d#
HERE’S PROOFTAKE THE S50.00 CHALLENGE
K.C. Houston, Tx. File 0195 I was working 2 
jobs and just barely getting by. I began using 
your program 2 months ago and / now make 
more money in I month than / did all last 
year. Thank-you so much for your easy to 
operate program.
M.L. Sterling, Va. File H2251 have never seen 
a program so easy to operate as yours. 
Believe me / have sent for numerous so called get rich schemes. None of them worked and 
they just cost me money. I started your 
program for less than SIO.OO and I now earn 
over 524,000.00 per month. Thank-you so 
much.
C.C. Albany, NY File 1/273 Thank you very- 
much for allowing me the opportunity to 
participate in your "Deluxe Money-Making 
Program. " It has changed my entire life. / 
deposited $¡8,500.00 in my checking account 
last month.
T.J. Stuart, FI File H318 I was skeptical when 
I heard about your program. I thought it was 
one of those get rich quick schemes to con 
people. I figured "what the heck, either I 
make the money you say or I gel my money 
back plus 550.00. Well was I wrong.” To 
think, I almost passed this opportunity up. I 
now earn more money in one month than I 
made all last year. Thank you Ron.
w _. _tS,e eS Sppdn zf_e hS Shd d—bd u_h: 
sngdn .A Cdunde 0ShdAB0_V:hN CAbed. 
mSg_A _hg :p AS, _nu hSe ._V:hN _e —d_be 
12lalll#ll pS——Sz:hN .A bAbed.a bdhg :e t_uV 
pSn _ p,—— ndp,hg# Q35Ca M z:—— bdhg AS, _h 
additional $50.00 b:.v—A pSn enA:hN .A 
vnSNn_.# You have nothing to lose and 
everything to gain. >:efdn AS, ._Vd 
$30,000.00 Sn M v_A AS, 550.00 pSn W,be enA:hN 
.A vnSNn_.# C,vv—:db _nd —:.:edg# w z::Z 
fShSn Sngdnb Sh—A ,he:— .A b,vv—A f_b n,h 
S,e# Mp M ndud:Gd AS,n Sngdn _pedn w f_Gd n,h 
S,e Sp ._h,_—b M z:—— b:.v—A nde,nh AS,n 
Sngdn z:ef .A xdNndeb# 6S, 0,be sngdn 
mSg_A mS >hb,nd 6S,n 9SvA sp 0A Cdunde 
0ShdAB0_V:hN QnSNn_.#$$$$$$$$$$$$
WHY ONLY $18.00 DOLLARS?
stG:S,b—Aa M uS,—g d_nh .,uf .Snd .ShdA 
tA Sppdn:hN .A gd—,8d .ShdAB._V:hN 
vnSNn_. _e _ .,uf f:Nfdn vn:ud# E,e M _. hS: 
:hedndbedg :h :..dg:_ed bfSne edn. vnSp:eb# ¡ 
fShdbe—A z_he eS fd—v _hg bfSz _ bd—due pdz 
vdSv—d ef:b S,ebe_hg:hN SvvSne,h:eA# mfd 
vdSv—d zfS .Sbe hddg ef:b Id—,8d 0ShdAB 
0_V:hN QnSNn_.a uS,—g hSe _ppSng :e :p :e z_b 
eSS d8vdhb:Gd# M f_Gd vn:udg :e bS ef_e _hAShd 
zfS f_b _hA bdn:S,b :hedndbe :h tduS.:hN _ 
p:h_hu:_— b,uudbb u_h f_Gd efd uf_hud# MeTb _—— 
,v eS AS,c Mh p_uea M z:—— v_A AS, 11l#ll W,be 
eS enA .A Id—,8d 0ShdAB0_V:hN QnSNn_.# 
6S, gdbdnGd .Snd pSn AS,nbd—p _hg AS,n 
p_.:—A# sxI>x eSg_Aa AS,n b_e:bp_ue:Sh :b 
N,_n_heddg#
Mp uS,vSh :b .:bb:hN zn:ed AS,n h_.d _hg 
_ggndbb Sh _ v:dud Sp v_vdn _—ShN z:ef 1wi#ll 
v—,b Cr#ll bf:vv:hN _hg f_hg—:hN _hg bdhg eS#D
QI9 9SnvSn_e:Sh 
9fdh_hNS xg#
4dz H_nepSng# 46 w2Yw2
DON’T TAKE MY WORD FOR IT
BBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBB????BBBBBBB’BBBBBBBBBBBBBB1 Qdnf_vb AS, f_Gd bdhe pSn bS.d zSnef—dbb ¡
NO INVESTMENT NECESSARY ¡ Nde n:uf bufd.db :h efd v_be# CS ._hA _gb
BBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBB BBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBq vnS.:bd AS, dGdnAef:hNa t,e :h nd_—:eA AS, Nde
hSef:hN# M N,_n_hedd AS, b,udbb Sn M z:—— v_A 
AS, 11l#ll for Just trying my program. 6S, 
u_hTe —Sbd# xd_g zf_— 0_nV QndbeSh _ hSedg 
_,efSn _hg v,t—:bfdn Sh fS.d SvvSne,h:e:dba 
f_b eS b_A _tS,e .A jId—,8d 0ShdAB0_V:hN 
QnSNn_.7# # #
w be_nedg .A vnSNn_. pSn ,hgdn 1w1#ll _hg 
AS, u_h gS efd b_.d# MeRb _bTG_—:g hSz _b :e 
z_b r Ad_nb _NSa Mh p_uea z:ef efd endhg Sp efd 
4_e:ShRb duShS.A eSg_Aa .A vnSNn_. :b dGdh 
.Snd Sp _ b,uudbb#
START FROM THE PRIVACY 
OF YOUR OWN HOME
M v,e .A ;;Id—,8d 0ShdAB0_V:hN 
QnSNn_.j :heS Svdn_e:Sh pnS. .A _v_ne.dhe 
r Ad_nb _NSa zf:—d zSnV:hN _ p,—— e:.d WSt# 
3_be Ad_n w gdvSb:edg SGdn 1or1alll#ll :heS 
.A ufduV:hN _uuS,he# 0A _uuS,he_he :h 4dz 
6SnV f_b .A p:h_hu:_— be_ed.dhe :h f:b Spp:ud 
eS vnSGd :e# M hSz Szh .A Szh fS.d :h efd 
.Sbe vndbe:N:S,b v_ne Sp eSzh#
I 
I
r
i 
i 
i 
i
"Ron, you offer an outstanding oppor-1 
tunity. I don't understand why you don't 
charge more than SI8.00 but I do understand 
why you offer 550.00 to anyone who tries \ 
your program. Simply, it works as you | 
describe. I whole heartedly recommend your. Deluxe Money-Making Program to anyone in\ 
need of large sums of money, because its | 
profitable, legitimate and proven. " j—Mark Preston
PDC Corporation Dipl. 9003 ,
Chenango Rd.
New Hartford. I3-1IJ
Dear Ron.
I'd be cra?y not to try your system, it 
understand if I don't Mart making S30.000 per' 
month I can return your Manual for a full) 
refund plus an additional S50.00 for just trying i 
your Deluxe Money-Making System. On lhai ' 
basis here is my S 18.00
Please include S2.IKI to cover postage and i 
handling of your package.
HR two

---------------------------------------------------

L6The Tartan • Carnegie Mellon • 22 October 1990
Vandalism contributes to discrimination of gays
HARASSMNENT, from page LI
all this National Coming Out Day 
shit that I had to live through last 
week, I didn’t think there was a 
real man left on campus.” Al­
though the letter stated that it 
was intended ironically, there 
were some who took it seriously.
John Henderson, a sophomore 
in MCS, signed the letter. “I came 
home from midsemester break, 
and as I walk into the bathroom, 
there’s marker all over,” he said. 
“I saw [the letter] as a reprimand
for the graffiti. I agree with the 
statement on graffiti.”
Katya Donovan, MCS fresh­
man, also attached her opinion to 
the note. “I agree you men, the 
fags only interfere with my hunt­
ing for men,” she wrote. Donovan 
said, “I don’t dislike homosexu­
als, I dislike homosexuals...don’t 
come out of the closet... I have 
friends that are homosexual, but 
they’re not afraid of it... If he’s 
writing stuff on the bathroom 
walls, then he’s got a lot of prob­
lems with himself. If they stay in 
the closet and let everyone think 
they’re straight, and you’re out 
meeting people, looking for a guy, 
then that’s interfering, I guess.” 
Todd Vandall, CIT freshman, 
said that he signed the letter be­
cause he was upset with the graf­
fiti. “I came home from break on 
Sunday, and I see all this profanic 
stuff all over the bathroom. I have 
nothing against them. I mean, 
why would they write all over the 
stalls and give themselves a bad
name?” Vandall, who said he is 
not “pro-homosexual” refused to 
comment when questioned on the 
issue of personal encounters with 
gay people.
Murphy said he feels the envi­
ronment is still conducive to 
learning. “Challenging stereo­
types as well as responding pro­
mote growth and sensitivity,” he 
said. “The worst thing for a col­
lege campus would be to have no 
expression of any kind. It’s a dual­
edged sword.”
cmuOUT resorts to banner to reach alumni
CMU OUT and Ms. Hernandez 
and myself. She thought I would 
take care of the group’s flyers 
since she did not know what 
type of organization CMU OUT 
was. Unfortunately, we did not 
react as quickly as the group 
deserved in response to their 
request”, Maloney stated.
Maloney did not comment on 
what transpired between 
Hernandez and Hoffman, who 
felt Hernandez had made some 
“unprofessional remarks”.
HOMECOMING, from page LI
On August 20th, Donn 
Hoffman, CMU alumnus 
(H&SS ‘88), Hernandez was 
unavailable for comment about 
the conflict, but Vice President 
for Development David 
Maloney, who oversees the 
Alumni Relations Office, was 
available to discuss the pre­
dicament.
“The whole incident was 
caused by miscommunication 
between Ms. Hernandez and
CMU students reflect on National Coming Out Day and personal experiences
COMING OUT, from page LI
was constructing that for me and 
really thinking about it by myself 
and in my conversations. It didn’t 
really hit me until I was actually 
attracted to a woman.
“It’s a very political thing for 
me,” she said, “and I refuse to be 
silent about it because I think we 
need visibility and I think we need 
strong role models because there 
aren’t really any role models out 
there.”
Hirsh differs from Clarke in that 
Hirsh believes her lesbianism is a 
large part of her life. “Straightness 
is a given in society,” she said. 
“All our media, all our images 
that we see reinforceyowr life, and 
they don’t reinforce [lesbian] lives. 
I think that it’s not just who I 
sleep with, it’s part of how I see 
the world, it’s completely my vi­
sion, it’s not just what I do when 
I close my door and I go to bed at 
night. It’s about who I love and 
who I want to put my energy into 
...and my work as an artist, how I 
see the world.”
For CIT freshman Jeff Oplinger, 
who came out in high school, 
coming out to himself was diffi­
cult. “At first I felt like I was sick 
or needed help,” he said. “What 
society has taught you about gays 
and lesbians is that they’re sick 
or perverted or unnatural. So I 
felt really ashamed for quite a 
while, but then slowly you come 
to terms with it, and you sort of 
accept it more for yourself. You 
kind of realize what it’s about, 
you learn that eventually most 
people come to terms with it.
“It is pretty much ongoing. It 
took me a couple years of keeping 
it to myself before I was even 
ready to tell other people about
it,” he said.
For psychology graduate stu­
dent Matthew Isaak, coming out 
at age 16 was different from 
Oplinger. “Basically, I think I was 
called a faggot before I learned 
how to read,” he said. “I didn’t 
really have any interest in the 
opposite sex, but I had inclinations 
toward the same sex.”
In comparison, Clarke has 
found her coming out to be labored 
. “I came out to myself at home, 
but I was in the closet...[My 
hometown] is not a good place to 
come out, but a few people know. 
My parents don’t know.... I want 
to tell them and I think I will one 
day.... You come out to the people 
who you are more comfortable 
with, [the people] you think will 
be more accepting first, and you 
gain more confidence and you’re 
becoming more comfortable with 
yourself.”
The prospect of having to work 
at coming out for the rest of a life 
seems burdening. “Well,” said 
Oplinger, “it definitely gets easier 
the more people you’re out with. 
Still, I think that even people who 
are pretty much out of the closet 
have worries sometimes — ‘Will 
this person accept it or not?’ So I 
mean, there is always some con­
cern, but it does get easier.” 
“Think of it from a heterosexual 
standpoint,” said Clarke. ‘You’re 
growing up in high school, and 
your hormones start working, and 
if you’re a guy, you’re attracted to 
some girl in the class, andifyou’re 
a girl you’re attracted to some guy 
in the class. There was never a 
point where you said Today, I 
will be attracted to so-and-so,’ it 
just sort of happened. The same 
thing for a gay or lesbian. I found
my attraction was to women. So 
it’s really not a conscious deci­
sion.”
Oplinger agreed. “It certainly is 
not a conscious decision. It’s not 
like I woke up one morning and 
said ‘Hmm, am I goingto be gay or 
am I going to be straight?’ For 
some people, I don’t know, the 
realization may come more 
quickly, with a certain event like 
they’re attracted to some one of 
the same sex. For me it was ... 
slower. I mean, I thought I liked 
girls, at first, but then slowly I 
thought I liked guys, too. And 
then I began to realize that I didn’t 
really like girls, I had just sort of 
assumed that because that’s what 
society tells us, ‘you’re a guy, 
you’re gonna like girls.’ So for 
others it might be quicker, but it’s 
definitely not an overnight deci­
sion.
While neither Clarke or 
Oplinger has lost friendships af­
ter coming out, they do feel some 
tension. “So far,” Clarke said, “I’ve 
been treated the same. But there 
are those misconceptions that 
come up everyday, and you get 
sick of dealing with them. There 
is so much that they don’t know 
and they don’t understand — 
they’re not being taught and at 
the same time you’re tired of hav­
ing to repeat the same things over 
and over again to different 
people.”
Oplinger is not so weary. “I don’t 
get tired of answering, especially 
if you come out to some one who’s 
never really known a gay person. 
They almost always have a lot of 
misconceptions. It’s not like soci­
ety tells you the true story about 
it. So often, they may act slightly 
differently, but often they have a
ANALYSIS, from page LL
those areas. To be sure, there are 
other reasons gay-rights issues 
are so hotly debated which do not 
have to do with the age of college 
students. “Another aspect [of the 
problem] is how uncomfortable 
anyone is with someone who’s
different,” says Rabin. Also, she 
says, fear of AIDS—which people 
often think goes hand-in-hand 
with gay issues — cause appre­
hension about sexual orientation. 
“It’s not a gay disease, and yet it 
has come to be identified as that,” 
she says. “But it’s not.” Murphy
WE’RE MORE THAN A MAILBOX!
_ignauso • Private Mailbox Rental...24 hour access • UPS, DHL, Overnight Letters?
 • Office Supplies • Photocopies 1
I • Packing and Shipping • Passport Photos, etc....
) • Business Cards • FAX Service
We specialize in packing and shipping computers worldwide
Postal Business and Communication Services
U0w3 Es”>C >m9# 5C•w
YwY Cs5mH 9xUMk Cmx>>m oi-Bowll CONVENIENTLY LOCATED NEAR FORBES AVENUE 4 CARNEGIE MUSEUM
PITTSBURGHFor more information call 621-9900 or stop in at 314 N. CRAIG ST.
WE OFFER:
• Introductory & Advanced Classes
• Equipment and Swimwear
• Rentals and Repair
• Travel
• Free mesh gearbag with purchase of mask, 
snorkle, fins & boots. Just show valid CMU id.
lot of questions if they do decide to 
accept you.
“I don’t really , get tired of an­
swering those questions. I think 
it’s kind of neat when someone is 
willing to ask the questions — 
they’re trying to figure it out.... 
One of the aspects of coming out 
that I like is that you get to edu­
cate some people about the mis­
conceptions society passes down 
about being gay.”
The way society treats sexual­
ity needs to be changed in the 
eyes of campus gays. “There are 
people,” Oplinger said, “that don’t 
realize they’re gay until they’re in
their forties or fifties or later be­
cause they’ve been taught by soci­
ety to think that that kirid of stuff 
is sick or perverted.”
Being gay on the CMU campus 
has become an issue for the com­
munity as well.
On NCOD, Hirsh was reminded 
of the hate she feels here. “A friend 
of mine gave me a t-shirt that said 
‘Queer and Present 
Danger...University lesbians.’ 
When I was reading those [Hous­
ing Office] displays at Resnik 
House I wanted to change my 
shirt because I sometimes forget 
that there are people who want to
kill me because I’m a lesbian. And 
I did, I went home and changed , 
my shirt for the afternoon.”
“I think in general, this campusJ 
is not outwardly accepting,” said ’ 
Clarke. “It’s not easy being gay or 
lesbian here because you come'' 
and you don’t see a community 
where you feel that being gay or 
lesbian is okay. I want to encour-,' 
age people to embrace their1" 
sexuality, and it’s okay to be gay 
or lesbian.
“I’d love to see the day when two 
men or two women can walk to­
gether holding hands, and it would 
be okay.”
Counselors explore homophobia and its sources
and Rabin agree that the outlook 
for the future is positive.
Greater awareness and discus­
sion, they say, will help relieve 
apprehensions. “This kind of 
controversy is important,” says 
Rabin. “But it’s just a process that 
takes time.”
wiBroaylkCM Ui##9 
—_rM bik:p U#krM9
That’s right — 
Duck Head Slacks 
are now available at 
Reich/Frank!
These comfortable, 
great looking pants 
can take you from a 
day in classes to a 
night on the town 
with style, (in 
Navy, Khaki, & 
Olive)
$27.50-
$35.00
Duck Head
Since 1865
Reich /Frank
Forbes-Shady Plaza • Squirrel Hill • 421-9600 
Tuesday & Thursday until 9 P.M.
In the Comic Book World (just like in Real Life) one major factor is a true 
indicator of a person's character.. .their hairstyle!
...What do these hairstyles reveal?...
Insane Genius
Fv-V 1
Teenaged Hero
AT 
"CIMINI 
HAIR DESIGN" 
WE CAN GIVE 
YOU THE 
LOOK 
THAT'S BEST 
FOR YOU!
"PHANTOM OF 
THE ATTIC" 
WE CAN SHOW 
YOU WHY 
THIS IS SO 
IMPORTANT!
...GOOD COMICS & GOOD GROOMING 
IT'S WHAT LIFE IS ALL ABOUT!
CIMINI
HAIR DESIGN 
406 S. CRAIG STREET621-HAIR
$10.00! —ALL STUDENTS CUTS 
WITH STUDENT ID__
PHANTOM OF THE ATTIC
COMICS AND GAMING 
214 S. CRAIG STREET 621-1210
25% OFF! -ALL GRAPHIC NOVELS
* WITH COUPON

---------------------------------------------------

The Tartan • Carnegie Mellon • 22 October 1990L7
Gays in ROTC must hide during National Coming Out Week
ROTC, from LI
military’s discrimination by chal­
lenging the presence of ROTC on 
their campuses,” said William B. 
Rubenstein, director of the Les­
bian and Gay Rights Project, in 
an American Civil Liberties Union 
news release.
According to Sofia Gruskin at 
the ACLU in New York, a “very 
important letter” was written to 
Secretary of Defense Dick Cheney 
by the presidents of the American 
Council on Education, the Asso­
ciation of American Universities, 
;he American Association of State 
Colleges and Universities, and the 
National Association of State 
Universities and Land-Grant 
Colleges. The letter, which 
Gruskin said represented “most 
f the nation’s colleges and uni­
versities,” was sent last May “to 
»xpress concern about the prac­
tice of discrimination by Reserve 
fficers Training Corps units on 
;he basis of sexual orientation,” 
d to request a meeting with the 
¡ecretary to discuss the issue. 
“Cheney has not replied in writ- 
” Gruskin said. Nonetheless, 
e replied, stating that a meeting 
)f that type would not be pro­
ductive.
According to Gruskin, Cheney’s 
response means that he does not 
feel the issue is heady enough to 
arouse considerable concern right 
now. Gruskin herself, however, 
ihinks that anti-discrimination 
activity is occurring all across the 
:ountry.
The ACLU also announced a 
[“one-day nationwide conference 
'or campus organizers fighting 
.OTC’s anti-gay policy” to take 
»lace in Minneapolis on Novem- 
ier 9.
“If [anti-discrimination activity! 
is not such a big deal,” Gruskin 
said in response to Cheney, “then 
why are we having this confer­
ence and why are 70 universities 
¡attending?”
j According to Gruskin, chal­
lenging campus ROTC programs 
“is one of the few direct actions we 
can take against the Department 
of Defense. It’s a way we can do 
¡something they will feel .... in a 
way that they won’t feel through 
[Tetters.”
j Terri Boksan of Maxwell 
[Air ¡Force Base, in response to 
jow the Air Force is currently 
ealing with those campuses 
which are openly challenging the 
lilitary’s anti-gay policy, said, 
This is a DoD [Department of 
lefense] policy and it’s our re­
sponsibility to uphold that policy. 
As long as it is a DoD policy, Air 
Force ROTC will not admit known 
homosexuals into the Corps of 
Cadets; however, all university 
students may take ROTC classes 
for academic credit.”
According to Boksan, any stu­
dent wishing to enroll in an ROTC 
class for academic credit com­
pletes Form 19, which does not 
request the applicant to state his 
or her sexual orientation, “So 
ROTC does not knowingly enroll 
gay students into its classes.” If a 
student wants to apply for entry 
into the Corps of Cadets, he or she 
would have to fill out Form 20, 
which does request a statement 
of sexual orientation.
“The military has special func­
tions and services and sets many 
standards—weight and academic 
standards, for example — this 
[military policy on gays] is one of 
those standards we follow,” said 
Boksan.
This summer, Rutgers Univer­
sity in New Jersey removed ROTC 
4-year scholarships to protest the 
military policy, reported an Au­
gust New York Post report.
Another issue raised by aiiiti- 
discriminationists is that the anti- 
discriminatory policy of U.S. uni­
versities contradicts the anti-gay 
policy of the military. The anit- 
discrimin'ationist view concerns 
the possible incidence of a gay 
student seeking admission into a 
university and not being able to 
fund his or her education other 
than with an ROTC scholarship; 
the view contends that ROTC’s 
not accepting a gay student also 
means that the student could not 
enter the university because he 
or she is gay. The same view as­
serts that if no one other than a 
heterosexual is eligible for the job 
opening created by the university 
for an officer teaching the ROTC 
classes, then the university — in 
contradiction with its anti-dis­
criminatory policy — does have a 
job opening that is not equally 
open to all.
University of Pittsburgh Presi­
dent Wesley Posvar, a retired Air 
Force colonel, said that the 
military’s policies are not within 
the university’s control, according 
to a UPI report.
One of the reasons given by the 
DoD policy for the exclusion of 
gays from the military is that the 
presence of gays “adversely af­
fects the ability of the armed forces 
to maintain discipline, good order, 
and morale.”
“I think that the military have 
some frail arguments — very 
frail,” said Kerr. “I’m inclined to 
feel that they’re ancient argu­
ments that are not nearly as 
strong as their prejudices—their 
prejudices which had to do with 
race in the military, had to do 
with gender in the military; now 
this [anti-gay policy] is one of the 
last vistages of that kind of preju­
dice.”
“I think gays should be allowed 
to be in the military, provided 
they can keep their sexual prefer­
ences separate from military 
functions,” said one Carnegie 
Mellon student in ROTC, who 
spoke on condition of anonymity. 
“I can understand how the known 
presence of a gay officer or mid­
shipman in the close quarters of a 
Navy ship could make the other 
men on board uncomfortable, or 
how even a gay man in that situ­
ation might conceivably be 
tempted to act on his sexual pref­
erences. Women in the Navy, for 
example, are allowed on support 
(non-combat) ships which have 
separate quarters for men and 
women. Clearly, practically all the 
men and women in this situation 
can keep their sexual activities 
off board... Of course there are 
always exceptions. But there will 
always be those 1 or 2 — whether 
they be hetero- or homosexual — 
who make things look bad for 
everyone.”
The highest court to challenge 
the military policy, as reported by 
a June 1988 report oftheNew York 
Times, was the ninth circuit Court 
of Appeals, which in 1987, in 
Watkins vs. U.S. Army, ruled the 
Army ban “unconstitutional.” The 
Army asked the court to rehear 
the case, continuingits ban before 
the rehearing in June 1988.
In regard to how much effect a 
court of appeals ruling might have 
on the military policy, Kerr said, 
“They [the military] think that 
their constitutional posture is 
different than civilian or civilian 
companies, or civilian employers. 
That’s been upheld in lots of other 
kinds of situations—women can­
not be in combat, for example. 
The military has a different court 
system — the military code of 
justice and so forth. Some of the 
Bill of Rights with respect to pro­
cedural rights at trial are not ap­
plicable to the military.”
Kerr seemed optomistic that the 
Supreme Court in the near future 
will have to decide upon a broader 
ruling concerning the military’s
WE’VE GOT 
THE JOB 
FOR YOU.
The Peace Corps is an exhilarating two year ex­
perience that will last a lifetime.
Working at a professional level that ordinarily 
might take years of apprenticeship back home, 
volunteers find the career growth they're looking for 
and enjoy a unique experience in the developing 
world.
International firms and government agencies 
value the skills and knowledge mastered during 
Peace Corps service.
FILM & INFORMATION
OCT. 24 at 7 p.m. 
Student Union - Room 112
INTERVIEWS
NOV 7
Sign up today at Career Center
Peace Corps
The Toughest Job You'll Ever Love
The ROTC colorguard performs.
anti-gay policy.
“With most of the cases the Su­
preme Court takes, there has been 
a difference among decisions be­
low by different courts on that 
issue. It isn’t an easy issue: one 
court has said yes, another has 
said no, perhaps two or three 
others have said no or maybe — 
now we need a national ruling. 
This is the role of the U.S. Su­
preme Court.”
“I think the policy will change 
when our generation gets into 
power,” the Carnegie Mellon stu­
dent said.
Boksan maintained that an 
Air Force cadet cannot be dis­
charged merely for disclosing an 
opinion sympathetic to the anti- 
discrimination view.
But CMU students in the Navy 
have not been told that. “The 
Navy policy now,” the student 
said, “is that if anyone in the 
Navy is asked about this issue, he 
or she should refer whoever’s ask­
ing to someone higher up.
“I know quite a few people who 
are gay and who are in the Navy,”
D. A. Henderson/Tartan Darkroom Manager
the student said “While on the 
summer cruise that the Navy 
ROTC has each year, I was 
amazed at the amount of mid­
shipmen who were concerned 
about the military’s policy on gays 
and asked the opinions of some of 
the admirals there, none of whom, 
of course, disagreed with the 
military’s policy. And there was a 
lot of open discussion among those 
midshipmen who disagreed with 
the policy and who voiced even 
more liberals views than I have.” 
“You’ll also find many ROTC 
students who agree with the 
military’s policy,” Boksan said.
One of the reasons given by the 
DoD for excluding gays from the 
military is “to prevent breaches of 
security.”
“The historical argument about 
security,” said Kerr, “is that people 
who are gay are more likely to be 
subject to blackmail.... Maybe that 
was true when people weren’t all 
out of the closet, but I think if 
people are out of the closet, I don’t 
understand the blackmail any­
more than there being a fellow in
the military who has two wives or - - • 
is going with a girl who’s not his; : 
wife, or a million other things we; ^ 
can all get blackmailed for.”
One issue raised by many anti-.,, 
discriminationists, including 
some members of cmuOUT, is that 
the military is concerned about...,, 
the security risk of gays even . 
though the illegality of gays in - 
the military as stated in the DoD 
policy is the perfect setup for 
blackmail.
“I was in the Marshall’s, 
Marienas, and I wo Jima and the 
Marines in World War II,” said 
Kerr. “Nobody knew anything - 
about gay people in those days. 
They were all in the closet. As I 
understand it, about 10 percent 
of the population is gay; I’m sure
10 percent of the fourth Marine 
division were gay.... The commu- ' 7 
nication officer of our artillery ~ 
battalion — of our artillery regi­
ment, the fourteenth Marines — 
was, I’ve since figured out, gay, 
and he was the best damn com­
munication officer that we had. 
Artillery communication means 
either you get support fire or you 
don’t, and in those three cam­
paigns — the Marshall Islands, 
Marienas Islands, and Iwo Jima
— his regiment was perfect.” 
Although the military policy 
that the monetary awards of gays 
discharged from the service,, 
should be refunded, “Some ROTC , 
people who are gay will announce , 
they are exactly so they do get • ‘ 
discharged — so they don’t have - - 
to serve as many years as were 
required, and can still perhaps _ / 
get their tuition paid. Clearly, p 
gays being discharged for this,^.' 
reason shouldn’t get that money,., 
refunded,” the student said. ;
H>3Q Um 9xMmM9U3 mM0>C
CMU Counseling and 
Student Development 
Center 
268-2922
CONTACT Pittsburgh 
782-4023
Drug Connection 
854-0700
Hours: Monday through Friday, 8:30 am - 
5 pm. For after Hours emergencies when 
the office is closed, call the Center.
An answering service operator will reach a 
counselor on call.
24- hour telephone counseling, crisis 
intervention, and supportive listening.
An Alcohol/Drug crisis hotline. 5-9pm.
Counseling and Student Development Center, 
a Division of Student Affairs
Last year we made over14,000students 
Wall Street Tycoons in the...
\m\
Collegiate
Investment Challenge'
November 1,1990 to February 28,1991
Enter this year’s competition 
and you’ll become a Wall Street 
tycoon, buying and selling stocks 
with your own S500,000 broker­
age account. If you’re the best 
trader at the end of this national 
stock market competition, you’ll 
be cashing a check for a very 
real $25,000!
Real Trading
There is no better way to get 
hands-on stock1 market experi­
ence. You’re on the phone, call­
ing your broker on a toll-free 
AT&T 800 Service line to 
buy and sell stocks. “Give me
S 100,000 worth of SARA LEE 
and another S50,000 worth of 
AT&T." You start with a fictitious
5500,000 brokerage account.
9_bf CufS—_nbf:v Uz_ngb
wbe#################################1r1alll
rhg ##################################wlalll
2ng ####################################-a1ll
Yef ####################################1alll
1—f ####################################Yalll
oef ####################################2alll
-ef ####################################ra1ll
ief ####################################ralll
################################wa1ll
P:h _ en:v pSn AS, _hg _ N,dbe uS.v—:.dheb 
Sp efd HS—:g_A Mhh 3,u_A_ Ed_uf xdbSne :h 
FnddvSnea kn_hg E_f_._a E_f_._b _hg efd 
E_f_._b 0:h:benA Sp mS,n:b.#
Build your portfolio from over
5,000 stocks listed on the OTC, 
New York, and American Stock 
Exchanges. Brokers will give you 
up-to-the-second quotes and exe­
cute your orders. Monthly state­
ments will keep you informed 
of your fortunes.
Real Prizes
Over S200.000 in total prizes 
will be awarded! This includes 
cash scholarship awards, trips 
to the Bahamas, and hundreds 
of monthly prizes from Cham-: 
pion USA. More than 1,000 win­
ners in all. You can win a cash
scholarship award of S25.000. 
Imagine cashing that check! Top 
winners receive weekly national 
recognition from USA TODAY. 
You can follow the current 
standings of the AT&T Colle­
giate Investment Challenge 
every Monday during the 
competition in the ‘ MONEY” 
section of USA TODAY
Enter and Win
The Third Annual AT&T 
Collegiate Investment Chal­
lenge begins the morning of 
November I, 1990 and ends on 
February 28, 1991. Your trading 
can lead to fame, a great Bahamas 
tan, and a S25.000 fortune. Call 
now to enter or to get your 
free brochure.
Registration deadline: 
October 27,1990.
Entry fee only$49.95
9SBbvShbSndg tAD
The Bahamas 
Ministry of Tourism
Call Today1800 545-1990
Ext. 33
The AT&T Collegiale Investment Challenge is produced and managed by Wall Street Games, Inc., 40 Grove Street, Wellesley, MA 02181.

---------------------------------------------------

Calvin and Hobbes by Bill WatersonDoonesbury by G. B. Trudeau
ITS CLEA-R I'LL NEVER. HAVE 
A CAREER IN SPORTS UNTIL 
I LEARN TO SUPPRESS Ml 
SVJRMWAL INSTRUCT, ------
IF YOU LOOK HARP ENOUGH, ALL 
COMPANIES ARE PROBABLY PO­INO SOMETHING OBJEOIONABLE 
ALSO, I'VE GOT A FAMILY NOW. UKE TTOR NOT. THAT CHANGES ^y^\£VBmHING..
LOOK, BOOPSIE,1DONT ENJOY 
IWRKIN6 FOR CLIENTS LIKE UNIVERSAL PETROLEUM ANY 
MORE THAN YOU DO, BUT I 
HAVE TO UVEINIHE'*? ^
REAL ¿V ^ I
MIKE, I PIP 
HAVE NINE CHILDREN 
DURINO THE 
I3TH CENTURY-
OH... RIGHT. HOUfRE THSi ALL MAKING our? /
I KNOW, MIKE, I 
UNDERSTAND..
1930 Unwui Pim Synd«
WAT mi GAME 
NEEDS ARE 
NEGOTIATED 
SETTLEMENTS.
I MEAN, CANYOU REALLY BLAME 
A SMALL, INDEPENDENT PRODUCER FOR UIILPLY FLUCJUATIN5 OIL PRICES'. 
UNIVERSAL PETROLEUM IS AS VIC­
TIMIZED BY THE VOLATILE MARKET AS THE PUBUC! BESIDES, NO ONE 
IS FORCING THE CONSUMER. TO ----^BUY, RIGHT?\
THE POINT IS, BOOPSIE, YOU 
CANT EE100 QUICK TO JUDGE! 
OUT OF FAIRNESS, YOU HAVE TO 
CONSIDER. THE CLIENT'S PER­
SPECTIVE AS SCRUPULOUSLY . 
AS YOUR OWN.
i pouos UM...rrsNOTICED THE AIR
THAT YOUR POLLUTION
EYE TWITCHED OUT HERE.. BEFORE. UIICKW.
I SUPPOSE SO. )W KNOW, IT'S FUNNY, 
MIKE...
NO, SHE'D GOTTEN OSEO Tb \T, 
Si VE FIGURED SUE SHOULD 
___ BE TUE ONE TO...
SOUR mKS JOB HAD A IOT 
OF STRESS ANO AGGRAVATION
SEE.... ------------
/ ..AND SUE
yLIS ODUHZa
V TO OU\T? .
WEIL, SOUR Mom a!oB to 
GO TO WORK, BUT ONŒ 
'(OVJ CAME ALONG, SOMEONE 
HAD TO STAI HOME .
uow COME 
YOU'RE THE 
ONE WHO 
GOES TO 
WORK, AND 
NOT \Am?
YUP! HERB'S WHOA! HOLD 
A NEW PIC- THE PHONE<
TURE OF HIM NOW, THAT'SIN HIS DESERT EXPLOITABLE! 
FATIGUES... \
OH, MR. ANDREWS,A PLEASURE! TVE AL- IS
WAYS ADMIRED YOUR... THAT 
UM. PETROLEUM PROMOS! RIEHT? IN FACT. MY BOYFRIEND \
IS OYER FIGHTING FOR J—THEM RIGHT NOW!
ITS JUST I WANT A A TECH- 20-FOOT NICAL BLOW-UP 
TERM. BEHIND \ HER'*
RIGHT. THEN YOU 
T SMILF THROW A COUPLE
AT THE STEAKS ON rr.
ENGINEBLOCK? T
SEARS FROM NOW. WHEN I'M 
SUCCESSFUL AND UA?PS,
.. AND UES IN PR\S0N...
I HOPE m NOT TOD J 
MATURE TO GLOAT, f
off +Kç 
swing or I'll 
punen '/our 
lights out.
YOU THROW UP THE HOOD TO 
REVEAL A STILL- STEAMING 
V-8 ENGINE BLOCK. YOU SMILE 
AT IT ANP LICK YOUR. UPS...
tioBn a
S\SSV /
Hqw !
WHAT WE'RE GOING TO FILM IN 
THE STUPRO TODAY IS YOU EMERG­ING FROM THE CAR,) FLUSH WfTH PLEA-U \) .SURE FROM PRIV- •¿ZgkzT* V < INGA HOT, GAS- 
C POWERS? MACHINE!
OKAY, THE EXTERIORS 
CUE’U- SHOOTAT YHALIBU
DONT WORRY ABOUT THEM NOLU... "
BOOPSIE,.HONEY, TRY TO GIVE ME MORE PRIDE, 
MORE DEFIANCE... 1
FOREIGNERS ARE TRYING TO MESS 
WITH YOUR my OF LIFE, AND YOU'RB NOT, GOING TO TAKE IT! 
THI5APIS ABOUT NATIONAL.HONOR! FTS ABOUT DIGNITY, INTEGRITY,
VALUES! ----
BJGHT, /MIKE'? (
CUT! SCMEBOPY 
SPRITZ HER VAUBY
OKAX 0FlimF£SV-\rJCACTION!
OKAY, READY, 
BOOPSIE? HERB ME GO... ANP 
ACTION!
GIVE ME A NICE SWLE . 
WATS GCOD. NOW DONT 
fAAVE A FACE, OK? READt 
ONE... TWO... THREE... __
CUCKCLICK
REAL, HOOP ORNAMENT' 
CARS' / i . —i
"EVERY PAY, THIS MISSION SEEMS 
A LITTLE MORE POINTLESS. I MEAN, I JUST CANT SEE RISK­
ING AMERICAN LIVES TO RE­
STORE A FEUDAL MONARCHY.“
"IF THERE'S ANY LESSON 
IN ALL OF THIS, IT'S THAT OUR COUNTKYS GOINS TO TO FINALLY GET SERIOUS 
ABOUT fTS OIL HABIT..."
‘DEAR BOOPSIE. THANKS FOR 
YOUR LETTER. NEWS FROM 
HOME IS THE ONLY THING THAT KEEPS US GOING..."
BESTOW UPON ME 
TUS DISCORDANT 
IMAGES AT SUCH 
SPEED AS TO RENDER 
UNEAR THOUGHT 
\MPOSS\BLE / /
OH. GREAT ALTAR
gv .k99 hi 
iCfilfkBCGiCfAAA
£. -
Calvin and Hobbes is a daily featuie in the Pittsburgh Press. Doonesbury is a daily feature in the Pittsburgh Post Gazette.
The Far Side by Gary Larson
Comics
The Far Side is a daily feature in the Pittsburgh Post Gazette.Danook shows off his Swiss Army Rock.Each time the click beetle righted itself, 
Kyle would flip it over again — until something 
went dreadfully wrong.

---------------------------------------------------

J Joey Battis ufb 
CHUU&ED FoütvbRAP^tP. t\ MISTAKE '
H0& ams km/hp-am.
6H6'S 0OKfN6 
fMMPH/CAC. y—
^THftT's UlCa. Tocy, MOW SHoi lut UtU-UP »«!)/< iGtt me AtJtn \0ezn> i
Î Gar
TO., UH.. 
i HfLUOuJ!
mreaiets itme rmppftiess tf*5&A&CÛV&? /HPH&Sltf? 07HERS*
t No/-JUsr
%ôem>tom?
toPH&fffo
OrWRô'f
Disp¿JCKttJô•meMmedOfW&?5?
WjjmbBm/ÙAIntnroduc
I>11> Voo > 
ySAY._o 
) iDiorr ??
X/vJr^ SDitrr I uia -tjstI WWTâbnM® fg>Jce)
'/Wooapy CAU.1 Bora t IDIOT ! [/-/ -.fWJfiWgéXVW/N'\tiexrpjmj mum
poemcs&M’TWfsrr''V^HO SA'iS rox_) 
CAfJ’T SMOKE A 
C i lDCo Im guDRR ,
fom Ap\/ENn-jRes g. CMQ'i o^iy H2-ïgAK. oib yglGrpA c,gr,roN HAut^yi ,THtSfr/
\\C>vii Si^» ww a,'DV^) \ 
\\ ---1
| We put the art in The Tartan \
The comics are looking 
great! Keep it up.
Just a couple reminders to all 
you comic creators:
NOTAÇAJN.
frtw»
-1U W60in3 °\ 5^c
•We cannot accept copy 
larger than 18 inches by 15 
inches. Plan accordingly.
•The deadline for comic 
submissions has been moved 
back because of the recent 
surge of student-drawn 
comics. Drop off work at 
The Tartan, Skibo 50 by 
Friday at 9 pm.
•Drop off work in the TARTAN 
Drop Drawer.
•Pick up old work in the 
TARTAN Pick-Up Drawer.
•Questions? Drop by Skibo 
50 or call Bill at x2111.
\N ¡Zi \ VI**\lWjkr [v??- 
\ \ çu'îua! w.nJ^ ^ \ OlJflA •
° / I HAVE HAD AN
O ( VERY TIRJNG* DAY
J-^-kAND 1AM S°JNG(
zbpzV9-zF26 —F83 
NICE... __
YOU DON'T ~ UNDERSTAND.
pA I AM NOT > r IN THE MOOD FOR • 
'CAJOL|Nq,NUDG,INGi 
\ OR TIPP»NG,TME 
COUCH OVER ,..y
heeg¿idE
r CM ! V1EU-/.VÛÜ SEE,TH& CEiKEPir 
OLD vJoMArJ \s. SYMBOLIC OV="TH£.£PPEESS\C*i 
OT= &y DOvAWl AVlT-
¦sx^.o\_a&y. -me. wnea_^HM«, pb^eeseuts-
THE S--T|FrLi(Jé» ROLES VAHI«^A S^i&'ty HAS. 
YCfZaso O'POvi HEe, At*D HÉR rt.\Nb LOST- 
s TO SEUlLliy \-S tAeTKPHc3T2.l<r-Al- FÛV2.
HE\2. SL£>VJLY SLIPPY MMSEfJESS
RZus fT 6^'Ty.
r ON THE. ^ 
COUNT OF THREE, YOU 
MOVE OR 
> YOU'RE C /NSTANT E ^ FUTONS^
Mv) . |S unusucAJUST e»dE ^6*GiO&STIoVJ ... V
UHAT Oce.*> IT-DNT JST STfJÙ DRt, 
PMM layevokihr
AHt? WWATABÛOT- 
(-S2. WHO'S
TORN AF^T BX THE
S.AIKT
¿OULD you VJA»T~
oili k GGkgfi r
LucViV^ tWroo^tV uJOA^ers of 
rooc)firn comic. "tcckAD)t>yj(u«Vc able tb
restore Mr. Clueless Xis ofU,;»*) rmùU
Sü?c, \ /TunTs Bt,%Y \ fct yooToyy.)
-t-cW ui rtr. CVltH/ 
^Oto cAicX ^ ?
r¿Tbxupc You ŸUTZ.
I FELL.r THERE9> > SOMETHINC, 
WRONQ WITH THIS EVOLUTION ARY HIERARCHY.
TO BE CONTINUSD
ntLtHUC, So tM>! 'Sue jJ/iqo/JAi. veijJ , züep üHo ftfle t/ou?
ueiL,
flccoAiLV
you'ne iP 
Xl\t CHO
O wu'g-
/1 A CotMC (j
£jMfvC-|fJ /Oeu) MOiî-K TiHCS ,olL We iüfJpA1! PReiies io y&A& 
voLOtL, "ÎliéUT?
^ou^M j FotK5 , A^S
O£lcot-K6 Uo COG. .(¦ 
¿MocD )i I
Noll^Joc
/Oeccoonk -n/ - HE­g.
_______________________
A CoHiC
AH U€LLOûc£ ofbO^- J vAU>
CVT15, Uvvty
|£JV{|CV\ BILA/J65 
I o<S to cotZ. 
k aV^tiAcrerL .. »'WT / Woo A/e^/J ^Ti-ll S 
^AXTiOiJAi. tVP - H'H 
V0T <7/0 ATTCIL TUG >
cp
Tisuties,

---------------------------------------------------

onu
On p^Nér 
y#kfGi99
IN Sfí-TOlS. 
41-06-A&, Tuf- Annm. 
"HATe: 1HE 
G.O.P" 
party i$ in
FULL SÍSSION, 
AT F0U,hU(,7!
' y,jicK re.~co.jfi of oüi 
‘d sa*nes1e.t- brco-ÍC
d»-£/Aan^«.r..nspioos//
(rordion Siis bacK an<A 
jurveys +K«, ^o*iic io«. Aar 
c<ivstd/ very plexksU wJ-Wt
CHAOS
;>e~»«A /“«V =-fc
Ctfps: tóettís, RVKi® wJo ssaerttf’lTA-iyr. Reporrtscu Rupfr, yGApoo A u?r/leoor éK/tóywiMá.
->\|WWik
s y.nkK»
o’EWFW“
¡JXK/ AIBNIÑÍ SOŸI&T 
stukPiVj/ ai? \ JÍ¡¿Sz,jilk 1 «r DAUAyT TESrNI 
MM that's what/
oh «Au.* / Ncfr UKé TflIS/ >
DONT ItxJ / All THIS SUP- HAPFV 
UKE- LiPniT WPe...N.cmtmavub V wceir Kftws cf ft rmc
PiUCWiOfJ ^r(fL ra^U-V M> A WANKH46 
amo TíOWu? SM: l///?7 cot+reST tvr ,
______—ir ovm . TDbéTHO#-.' ¿
punKW
Dtym/ts
'Tr^l
Our -lew plciline. btyltis at (rCO«e Se»rcJiej- ¦f-o v hi’w^l f //^/laL5«f; lostj
<“ M06M0 sreeM
TV AdVentvœS
oPM06MO STÍÉN 2 V/AIR5H WéAftWS MíPOWAWt> W2ALÊG*. £NTÍCRpR¿Nécrt.. S*é? TO OVO; TCTftL 5ét£W Fré**É5, McupVtl
ftowr/ MEPRcfffer/ /¿Íít\ 
IO glUH we "Hítp"oor / |N\ 
Tue Awn-é.o.p. ow yCViiV 
]bv. cw Furnesï? / < ksi P
"rtou f1lScW*«Wap> 
MÉ/ HARmJWTV
Jr A« 1tx> MU> 
¦ uomffcpm!’ 
I l'a muée éfir
Í TWq6 vJfSH THAtO 
•JotN \J? wjrm a 
GRPUPOF Rb-VOb-
SWM URRAtó/
Joe ponn/t 600 j
?)I110 /'i-Sbapite- AJ r-Ark (!¦
UNCLE CARL’S COIN OUT Oí THF EAÇ” TRICK
w¿ZR ’¿””Teuv m”¿Gl
'jbv fíne-AJ, 6iner*l Jnorple 5i‘^J
Î Ture «.r^ <jI«í) TVy 
^Y<v\<)ç«¦r#, yc<J "Pic
a<™ctd d.V.Sion- &een
loSi’n^ (Deo (vtc. Cfa?y lately./
THli> Ac DAN/ R/iTHEfk
-ro You1 uv£ 
WHERJ? SADCfl^ f I HUSSIFMH45 
3^5>T 6¿.¿>wnJ^i5 inneo
AN/Dfxc.
w^k. Hinin I 1 30571
Í-ÓVÍ2 HEOiA MCJPWicí-/e] 
SLyft.E CuuLD USE- ySoAiE 
Diet Gjpop I /
‘rc> mr-- rri ^
<^t)OVjM MU/W ^ 
with. KmÈ
T,
RPAlLT 
_ I'M*
W(CE
/ VajWi"1- 0^1 > ajoj MoT^inj 
lite T^ai Í wp
¿7^3 donnj meoI5/ 
ïnléilicjiKife c^ni
n\/T ' AOJPH N
[CiCphfT/k/u^ 
ECfiEfrlE Î
< THB4er-oF\kM 2':3¿tF0[] '.NzVK[[ CFF 5Uaf6UM IM C(Jg H&jjp ¿ D
-A n«-TA.6e lUTUÊomcp.'. uwr <A»o -fclb!^/
WHAT O.KJ 1 Pb 
, FOP. VA, E.I6WIË?
/0*U.,M141E(2.
/^-SUC7r U&maJANT 
[j¿NZP-rr8JqJJJ5GQT-$6 c^e.
V EÇMEMSai. frVÊKi
\YtbouEtt AgccttelL <<ÍMIT^ ^USWINJ'UP.
rr 0eu*i=*5T»TWiS Nto& 
5¿Nh ¦sw ippAt^rrro.
HE'-frpK««?,
WGAP^CTS-rHfc
¦TM& feMSe*
CÇAP.
Pwac-ct^Y WWHW... S’BT.
Puyá.6cfóTOP»y£.cxn“ iA^DWGV^rjVfee.... i
A« v."£ai<*V
1 )\ idnovo
(Jax) feAP r^ii., 
W&6&1.. iïMeMgerz-, i
.L6ÍT T<D BjésHT// J•i Met9A6m>i 
4HûT. MO fAMlW.
[''FFF'FFC4¿ 
i AWpTíín'ec.T-^•f^efO Voo'p
WAVJí^lLéoJ 
OVfci- VÎâÆ.y So^^PDlaTiû^ iao^r&iA4iHp 
fasiZ-çoP'^e^^oiJ KVcoe ÙHiftSPW1.! ^
^OH, IUKE 'IMÜ¦x JlMMv!
S. ...-}IMM^?rUiHM A^OUT
-rnii-6Uïf?
/KorutAfoie-.
tJOOP^SWOTVftjTA.
\RtAUMW€WC.^.
^ An'/^Vj TKto TV Ë)fcJ\£n 
S-piff- r\'f$iertodî'y. It was «- 
V Very Fri^httSniVJJ Vrne
PÍLAX, I /N 
JUST feRATED IM. WE 6oiM' To THÊ- . ÔTATlOM OK.
UJHAT?1
/ 'THAT^ AU, ^01) 
f4E«7 i*s oie snoer- 
'Te^^r T.¿f osi 
TEA-M !!
/'bT 60 FAÇÇ WP>\ 
W CLfiA^e^S RfW. 
ié«?nA«.TsoMe
vJ=t«:KTCUCrrWg$. yOU... ilMMV?
I ÍTWKW6 
ÏKKM

---------------------------------------------------

nrano omorao nciam nonn 00000 0000 000000000000000 000 0000 000000QB30GJQ 0000 BUS 100830 00000000nnnriR 00000 000 nnnm 00000 0000 Q00 00B00 00000 00000000 000000 0000 00000 0Q0000 0000 0000000000000190000 
0000 00000 0000 noo0 00000 0000
Spri Spri This is a tun HARPER TH/M ITLOOKS IN PA*k £ASnei
H>6a Ux> 
6S¦ U33 
E16HT7/pAnny ngS191
TANŸA7,
§4Mww I*** „ II ifil^ANP TANYA ll “ are chedd stuck. IOUT AMoMfe AUL THE56 FLOATIM& ROCK Si
&6 9Be•# CU'KmSC
iUwtlNJLA.
U4Q back at -me hebuia Hebei- ^
BP mi I nesses rêportep 
W7 seeiM6 Wark“ ano
f / 7SM/X4 0ISAPP6AR.• FROM THE SWIMMING t/„ V fOOt AREA WTo. A\ SLOWING BLACK.
'^RecrAN&L.es G
/ (11/ ' JtCM
sueS vNGdeSvde^A PARTIAL 
IMMUNiry TO 
^6KAVlTyi>
AND ON VOLTS"LETFT.Wf I 
HAVE 6AKER IfALL, NAME <J.
'hu—(,
SHORTLY W 
THEREAFTER, N
we Keceivep
THISulofcCCaCs
;oUL(? you <yveN13aWz9 ReALLY Hgf 9g PI— IR A IEE zbIzAAME A HAN& UP
' f All I ne« u 
y * pcwtic
/ SH-M^CKJEA.otf 
HCY! UiHt> LEFT 
THIS SKSrtATUfces I,Ng_M4g0
AT THE Cv\iCK.£NJ pouter SAVKE 
Taste testimi lac>.........
/"r^dcAs a, \ittìeN\
Otov\tW>n ________
Vftru. U-cVfc'V.
W !«*¦ -7""BuoowA ^
CovtiTiS r 
CLM ^
bZT MC O^T 
Of HS«!
fVNX^vtCrtvC, 
JtAC^ -jpTWV J
T1uu TRY- 1 bOW’T
TO OC ANOTHER C.MU STATIST» C.
I uloniitr if//'( M 
Kftv dr-*^* ‘ Î» •gon^o. £«i\ dou>n.
I
mt/l /l SuffOSEb To BE ME
CAESAR ENGLAND by K. Michael Thomas
Size doth not a 
comic mafe.
YOU'RE GONNA \ 
CONFUSE 
EVERYBODY IF 
YOU KEEP 
SWITCHING TITLES 
EVERY WEEK! ,
YOU PAYING ATTENTION?! 
ONE TITLE, CAPICHE? /
LISTEN--*s ^
f YOU WANT ME TO SHOW UP 
HERE EVERY WEEK YOU DO 
V IT WITH ONE TITLE, GOT IT?
HOW ARE
THEY
GONNA
KNOW
WHERE
TO FIND
ME? /
RRRRRR. 
WELL.. . OKAY.‘WHAT IS 
THIS? ,IN THIS STRIP ITS' 
EITHER SHAPE 
UP OR SHIP OUT.y
YOU'RE JUST \ 
SORE 'CAUSE I YELLED AT YOU 
FOR THE , WOLVERINE / 
THING.
reDmk
•A comic is good or it is not; the size that it runs in The Tartan 
does not affect its worth.
WHATS 
WITH 
THE 
NEW 
¦TITLE?/
'ALL RIGHT. 
I GOT IT.
I GOT IT. 
VSHEESH! y
BUT YOU'RE 
’NOT
TEACHING A 
CLASS THIStime ... y•This relationship between the size of things and their worth 
can be applied to many other aspects of life. Use your 
imagination.
•Thank you for your attention.
AND DO SOMETHING ABOUT THESE MICE.,
colle­
giate
crossword
These are the 
answers to last 
issues's puzzle.20 ----- cit.
21 Moon rover
22 College course, 
for short24 ----- Vegas25 Pay di rt26.-------wan Kenobi
of “Star Wars"
27 Opposite of yeh28 Cal 1 ----- day29 Pretty much31 Adhesive substance33 River to the Seine34 Well-known airport35 More insensitive 38 Union member, at
times40 Spi ral41 Like the Kalahari
© Edward Julius Collegiate CW8819

---------------------------------------------------

MBA
POWER
:•Ug’
4’•”RaDvh c¿NZGeZ” A
12:30 P.M.—1:30 P.M.
tDRHZ”R '•aTH¿”T•G
Group, we’re looking for top MBA’s who know 
what it takes to achieve success in a highly com­
petitive industry.
• Financial Planning
• Program/Laboratory Business Operations
Equal Opportunity Employer. Proof of U.S 
citizenship may be required.
Now is your opportunity to turn your MBA 
and a brown bag lunch into an important step in 
your future. Join Hughes Aircraft Company ex­
ecutives during lunch and you’ll see firsthand the 
exciting things going on at Hughes and the critical 
role you can play in our future success.
A t H ughes’ Electro-Optical & Data Systems

---------------------------------------------------

Resurrection of the Dead haunts the silver screen
H_nnA |mS. mSz—dbZ _hg E_nt_n_ |905 _—,.h_ Q_en:u:_ m_——._hZ 
BNn_vv—d z:ef “S.t:db enA:hN eS tnd_V :heS efd p_n.fS,bd zfdnd efdA _hg 
p:Gd Sefdnb f_Gd bS,Nfe ndp,Nd :h WUlrn S# nro NUVUtl boae—
©1990 Columbia Pictures
E,e—dna 905 _—,.h_ ‘_e:d F:hhdn_ha mShA mSgga _hg Q_en:u:_ 
Id_u!2ww pdhg 2h 2n.A Xq p—dbf$d_eTh/ “S.K;db Th WUlrn S# nro NUVUtl
By STEPHEN GLICKER
Tartan Diversions Editor
What a great idea for a horror 
movie. Seven people barricade 
themselves inside a farmhouse 
while an army of flesh-eating 
zombies roam the countryside 
looking for fresh food. It was a 
simple, original, and very scary 
concept — and it worked.
As a matter of fact, this story 
worked so well that it has since 
gone on to immortal status. This 
movie has made countless mil­
lions of dollars, the director has 
become one of the best in the 
horror industry, and over the 
years, the film has been translated 
into 17 languages.
What movie, you ask? Night of 
the Living Dead, of course.
It’s been 22 years since the 
original Night of the Living Dead 
spawned its first scream, but the 
remake of this classic has just 
arrived, and this time it’s in color. 
The question is, can it fill the 
shoes of its older brother?
Well, first-time director and 
CMU alumnus Tom Savini does a 
damn fine job filling those im­
mortal shoes, so fine, in fact, that 
you might need a shoehorn to 
wedge in the remake.
Unlike some of Savini’s past 
films such as Creep show, Mon­
key shines, Dawn of the Dead, and
— Movie Review —
\\\ 4MkHmsFmH> 3MŒM4k I>UI#
The remake of the 1968 George 
Romero classic. Seven people bar­
ricade themselves inside a farm­
house while they fight off an on­
slaught of zombies. Starring Tony 
Todd, Patricia Tallman, Katie 
Finneran, and William Butler.
Day of the Dead, where he did only 
the special makeup effects, Night 
of the Living Dead does not rely 
heavily on the gore factor. Instead, 
Night is swift and sure, always 
leaving you slightly on the edge. 
Even if you have seen the original 
Night it won’t prepare you for the 
new shocks and screams found in 
the current version.
As in the original, the movie 
opens in the cemetery with Bar­
bara (CMU alumna Patricia 
Tallman) and her obnoxious 
brother Johnnie (Bill Mosley) 
driving through a cemetery to visit 
their mother’s grave. ’Johnnie 
then utters the now famous line, 
“They’re coming to get you, Bar­
bara,” and the fun begins.
A zombie promptly disposes of 
Johnnie, and Barbara starts her 
escape. Along comes Ben (Tony 
Todd) who scoops Barbara up and 
into a nearby farmhouse, where
they decide to hole up.
Joining Barbara and Ben are 
the bothersome and sniveling 
Harry (Tom Towles), his wife 
Helen, and their daughter (McKee 
Anderson and Heather Mazur), 
and a young couple played by 
CMU alumna Katie Finneran and 
William Butler (complete with a 
Steelers cap and an Iron City Beer 
t-shirt). The rest of the movie (as 
in the original) focuses on these 
seven people tryingto survive and 
their conflicts with one another. 
Only the ending and Barbara’s 
behavior really steer off course 
from the original.
Ben and Harry are wonderful 
to watch as they battle out their 
differences. The emotion and an­
ger in these scenes seems genu­
ine and greatly helps add to the 
tension and panic. Barbara is 
completely different from the 
original, where she was a quiet 
wimp. In the remake she starts 
off as a nervous wreck and slowly 
becomes a female Rambo. And 
the young couple add a much 
needed sense of humor to the film. 
However, it’s the zombies which 
really steal the show.
Unlike those in the original, the 
zombies in the new Night are a 
colorful and humorous assort­
ment. One walks around with 
autopsy stitches in its chest, while 
another has a needle dangling
from his arm. The makeup for all 
the zombies is top-notch, as are 
the few gruesome effects.
The directing is good as well, 
despite the fact that this was 
Savini’s first major motion pic­
ture. One of the best and most 
subtle effects was the irregular 
lighting, as opposed to most mov­
ies where everything is well lit. 
Having the characters running 
around the house with its dark 
comers greatly added to both the 
realism and the horror.
Probably the only troublesome 
element was the during the early 
scenes with Ben and Barbara. 
These scenes were meant to con­
vey shock, haste, fear, and disori­
entation within the characters 
and their actions. Instead, they 
appear unnatural and well re­
hearsed, pushing the viewer out 
of the film rather than pulling 
them in.
As compared to more recent 
horror films, Night is rather dis­
creet, using the story and shock 
value rather than gory special 
effects to get its message across 
(as in the original). Reactivated 
bodies, an appetite for flesh, and 
pure creepiness drive this movie 
along, not a body count.
Overall, the new Night is a 
welcome addition to the horror 
movie genre, and a very scary 
film in its own right.
Ignatius Sasmita/Tartan Photo Staff Manager 
905 _—,.h_ ‘_e:d F:hhdn_h b:Nhb _,eSNn_vf pSn “S.t:d (_hde Ced:h g,n:hN efd zSn—g vnd.:dnd Sp WUlrn S# nro NUVUtl boae—
The Living Dead invade Pittsburgh
By STEPHEN GLICKER
Tartan Diversions Editor
Everyone knows what the world premiere of a new 
film is supposed to look like. Searchlights roam the 
sky, big stars pull up in stretch limos, and silk tux­
edos and glamorous evening dresses deck out the 
place.
However, Pittsburgh was treated to a world pre­
miere quite different from any other. Searchlights still 
roamed the sky, but the big stars arrived in hearses, 
and there were zombies mingling among the silk 
tuxedoes and evening dresses. If you didn’t know any 
better you would have thought that Halloween came 
early this year.
Instead, this was the scene last Wednesday night at 
the Galleria Cinemas in Mt. Lebanon for the world 
premiere of the 1990 remake of Night of the Living 
Bead.
Shot entirely in Pittsburgh, the film was directed by 
CMU alumnus Tom Savini (who was in Los Angeles 
during the premiere) and written by CMU alumnus 
George Romero (who was in Washington County 
shooting The Dark Half).
However, on hand at the premiere, intermixed with 
the zombies and the near capacity crowd of more than 
600, were some of the other stars, producers, and crew 
of Night of the Living Dead.
CMU alumna Katie Finneran, who plays Judy Rose,
“wasn’t even alive until 1971” and didn’t catch the 
1968 original until she was about eight. For her, 
starring in Night “was a great role ... I called myself 
the screaming teenager and that’s all I did for six 
weeks straight.”
Co-star McKee Anderson, who plays Helen in the 
remake, took the role “because it was Night of the 
Living Dead and it was one of the first horror movies I 
ever saw and it scared me to death! I also thought 
that would be fun to do a remake of a cult classic.” 
Co-producers Russ Streiner and John Russo, who 
both produced the original Night 22 years ago, did the 
remake for a different reason. “I think that this film is 
especially exciting because it was a chance to get back 
together and work with George Romero and John 
Russo,” said Streiner, “and that’s something that 
hasn’t happened in quite a few years. It’s the first ' 
time that the three of us have gotten back together to 
work on a project for about 20 years, so that aspect 
was exciting.”
For Russo doing the remake “was deja vu. It’s kind 
of bittersweet seeing this remake, because you’re 
constantly comparing the new cast with the old cast, 
and it’s a very difficult thing to do when it comes to 
yourself. It was a very interesting experience.”
In addition, Streiner said that it was also a chance 
to “go back and redo something that we did 22 years 
ago.... It’s not very often that a person gets a chance to 
Please see PREMIERE, page L17
Ignatius basmita/lartan Photo btan Manager 
QnSg,udn x,bb Cend:hdn e_—Vb z:ef bvdu:_— ._Vd,v dppdueb und_eSn >Gdndee E,nnd——#

---------------------------------------------------

L14 The Tartan • Carnegie Mellon • 22 October 1990
Memphis Belle bombs on the big screen
By TERRI KASCH
Tartan Asst. Diversions Editor
Commercials for Memphis Belle 
give any movie goer plenty of rea­
sons to want to see Memphis Belle. 
Unfortunately, this film delivers 
nothing but disappointment.
First, you might want to go for 
the stars, which include Matthew 
Modine, John Lithgow, and Eric 
Stoltz. Ifthat’s your thinking, save 
your money and stay home. John 
Lithgow’s role is hardly worth 
mentioning. He portrays a good- 
hearted but misguided PR man 
who wants to focus America’s at­
tention on the crew of the Mem­
phis Belle, who are soon to be­
come the first crew in their divi­
sion to successfully fly twenty- 
five missions without losing a 
single man. Lithgow is nothing 
special and his character never 
goes where the real action is: 
aboard the Memphis Belle.
Eric Stoltz takes on the role of 
Danny, the most popular man on 
the plane, although it’s not clear 
from his personality why he draws 
such admiration. Danny’s a good 
ol* Irish boy who writes poetry 
and treats everyone with com­
passion and understanding. This 
is not the type of person you’d 
expect to take first place in a
— Movie Review —
?1/2 0>0QHMC E>33># The crew of 
the fighter planethe Memphis Belle 
face injury and death as they fly 
their final mission over Nazi Ger­
many. Starring Matthew Modine, 
John Lithgow, Eric Stoltz and Harry 
Connick, Jr. Directed by Michael 
Caton-Jones.
military popularity contest.
Matthew Modine is the bland­
est of them all. As the captain of 
the aircraft, he spends most of his 
time giving wimpy orders and of­
fering everyone tomato soup. He’s 
responsible for the plane’s name
— it honors a woman he met in 
Memphis and whose picture he 
still carries.
Now maybe you would want to 
see this film for the bright new 
talent that the ads promise. But 
there are no special fresh faces 
either. Tate Donovan gives a rea­
sonable performance as Luke, the 
crew’s second in command, but 
his character’s motivation has 
been seen so many times before. 
You see, he’s getting a little tired 
of listening to Modine and he 
naturally begins to feel that he 
knows more about military tac­
tics than his superior. Who 
wouldn’t? It takes accidentally 
killing a plane load of rookie fliers 
for Luke to decide that maybe 
he’s not the smartest individual 
in the crew.
Sean Astin gives one of the bet­
ter performances as Rascal. Astin 
makes this miniature Casanova 
believable, but the actor has too 
many panic scenes. His job is to 
sit in a spherical compartment, 
called the Ball Turret, under the 
plane and shoot at Nazi planes 
beneath them. The ball turret is 
supposed to be able to maneuver 
in all directions, but there are two 
episodes in which Rascal panics 
because the compartment is stuck, 
and one in which the audience is 
supposed to fear that he has died.
Music lovers might wander to­
wards this movie because of the 
appearance of Harry Connick, Jr. 
a Sinatra-style crooner whose 
music could fit seamlessly into 
any World War II film. Unfortu­
nately, Connick gets to sing about 
four lines of the song “Danny Boy” 
before his smooth solo is cut off by 
the filmmakers. As an actor, 
Connick gives a lot of life to the 
role of Clay, but he’s not given 
enough time on screen.
There are a few interesting spe­
cial effects, but they’re not worth
©1990 Warner Bros, Inc.
H_nnA 9Shh:uV (n#a xddg >gz_ng I:_.Shga 4d:— k:,heS—:a Cd_h Ube:ha _hg E:——A ï_hd t—Sz Spp bS.d bed_. while 
z_:e:hN pSn Sngdnb eS e_Vd Spp pSn efd:n —_be .:bb:Sh :h xokArUC zoffo—
sitting through the entire story. 
The audience sees a man pulled 
from his plane by the laws of 
physics after the front of the air­
craft is shot off. Unfortunately, 
one of the Memphis Belle crew 
members points out that he wasn’t 
wearing a parachute. Other
scenes are a little too gory, espe­
cially those where buckets of blood 
are splashed on the windows of 
the plane.
This film also has scenes of re­
markable cruelty. In one scene 
the crew of the Memphis Belle 
taunt rookies who are about to fly
their first mission, laughing as" 
they suggest that the inexperi­
enced crew probably won’t live" 
through it.
Memphis Belle is based on a 
true story, but this film offers" 
only a pale reenactment of an 
inspiring real-life drama.
Slime World oozes into the video game market
The Atari Lynx is a great video 
game system. The graphics and 
sound are crisp, the system is 
powerful, and it allows up to eight 
people to play at once. However, 
the Lynx has been dying a slow 
death due to the pitiful number of 
games produced for it. And it’s 
such a shame that this great little 
system, as well as all Lynx own­
ers, should die a slow, painful 
death due to a lack of support.
Well, Lynx owners rejoice, for 
Atari has just released one of the 
most original, strange, and at 
times disgusting games ever: 
Todd’s Adventures in Slime 
World.
In this game you play Todd, a 
lost soul who has just been de­
posited on this God-forsaken ex­
cuse for a planet, better known as 
Slime World. Your mission is 
simple in concept, but complex in 
reality — find as many “slime 
gems” as possible, find the exit, 
and get out of Slime World alive.
The terrain on Slime World 
consists solely of huge complex 
subterranean caverns which are 
packed full of dangers. Some of 
these dangers run from the obvi­
ous (big monsters trying to get 
you) to the not so obvious, like the
PRESS START
by Stephen Glicker
huge man-eating venus flytraps 
which appear out of nowhere and 
usually scare the hell out of you 
while they devour Todd in one 
gulp. However, out of all the 
dangers found, the most persis­
tent is the slime.
Slime can be found everywhere 
in this game. It drips from points 
on the ceiling, fills pits on the 
cavern floor, pours out of water­
falls made of mucus and slime, 
and whenever Todd kills a mon­
ster, its course usually ruptures 
into a shower of deadly slime. As 
Todd gets more and more slime 
on him, he slowly becomes greener 
and greener until ultimately he 
“pops” and goes up in a spurt of 
slime. I told you this was a sick 
game.
Fortunately, there are lots and 
lots of slime shields scattered here
and there which protect you from 
monsters and the slime for sev­
eral seconds. There are also pools 
of clear water scattered along the 
caverns where you can wash the 
sticky goop off.
As for the monsters, there are 
many different types to be en­
countered throughout this game. 
From maggots, tapeworms, and 
blood-flies to zits, mildew, and 
headsuckers, this game has quite 
a wide variety. Along with a dis­
gusting sounding name, each 
monster also has its own unique 
personality. The headsucker, for 
example, is a really sick-looking 
creature which attaches itself onto 
your upper body (disgusting 
sucking sound included), thereby 
preventingyou from bending over 
to pick up useful items.
Other monsters aren’t as gentle 
as the headsucker, such as the 
blood-fly, which explodes into a 
rain of fatal red slime when you 
shoot it. I think that the pro­
grammers had a lot of fun when 
they created the monsters for this 
game!
As for useful items, Slime World 
has its fair share of those as well. 
These items include slime shields, 
gun powerups (increase your fire­
power), mega bombs (destroy ev­
erything in a room), cleansers 
(turn a pool of slime into clear 
water), jet packs (allow you to fly 
around the caverns), and slime 
bait (attract all nearby monsters). 
You also carry a computer map 
with you at all times, which allows 
you to see where you’ve been and 
to spot hidden openings you 
haven’t yet explored. It will also 
show you the location of other 
players in multi-player mode. All 
these items are scattered seem­
ingly randomly throughout the 
caverns.
There are six adventures in total 
for you to explore, each completely 
different and with its own goals. 
In essence there are six complete 
games within Slime World. In one 
adventure your goal is to get as 
far as you can before you die; in 
another your gun is broken and 
you must escape Slime World 
using wits and dexterity alone; 
and in another adventure you 
have to keep on finding special 
mushrooms to extend your time 
limit before the entire world melts. 
Each adventure is huge and 
complex, usually taking several 
hours to fully explore and com­
plete.
The graphics in Slime World 
are top notch. Your character is 
richly displayed with gunpack, 
sunglasses, and blue uniform. 
When you step into a pool of wa­
ter (complete with little white air- 
bubbles), Todd scrubs away any 
slime one layer at a time. There is 
always a pattern or image mov­
ing in the background. The slime 
caverns slowly pulsate, and when 
Todd falls a long way, his feet get 
mired in the slime and he takes a 
few steps upward to free them.
The sound is standard Lynx 
fare, fairly good with a touch of 
metallic in the background. How­
ever, the heart-stopping “chomp": 
a huge man-eating venus flytrap 
makes as it eats you makes up for 
all the other sound effects.
Slime World has a password 
feature which will allow you to1 
continue at certain locations found 
throughout the caverns, so you' 
don’t have to finish a game in one.; 
sitting.
An interesting addition is the 
fact that all the instructions on 
how to play are contained within 
the game itself, something I can’t 
remember ever seeing in a home 
video game before. And Slime 
World is also the first home video 
game to carry an anti-drug mes­
sage in the opening scene.
For the final evaluation, on 
scale of one to ten, I give the 
graphics a nine, the sound and 
music a six, the playability an 
eight, and the originality a ten. 
Overall I give Slime World an 
eight.
Tune in next week when I tackle 
the game genre of choice for many: 
CMU students, role-playing.
Tartan Diversions Editor 
Stephen Glicker enjoys disgust­
ing video games a little too much 
to be considered healthy.
"The African Tradition of the Griot"
Saturday, October 27,1990 
4:00 pm - 7:00 pm 
Carnegie Mellon Fine Arts 
Alumni Concert Hall
Featuring the talents of:
Tony Miles and the Mobites 
Windspirit Movement
Sponsored by Division of Student Affairs in conjunction with AB Special Events

---------------------------------------------------

The Tartan • Carnegie Mellon • 22 October 1990L15
Joe Bob defends your Thanksgiving dinner
Since it’s turkey-hunting sea- 
Ijonl again, I know I’m gonna get 
major flak from Wanda Bodine as 
,oon as I whip out the old full- 
;hoke twelve-gauge, jump into a 
¦aniouflage jumpsuit, and put on 
ny.hat with the little ear flaps.
For the last three, four years, 
tynhda’s been on this animal- 
¿jglits binge which includes tur­
n's. Like they’re not gonna die 
nyway! Like the zoos of America 
re gonna close because there 
iren’t enough turkeys to look at!
I told her, “Wanda, there is 
,othing strange or perverted 
jbriut blowing the head off a 
iohbler and splattering a little 
'jrkey flesh on a tree trunk. The 
-hole country was founded on 
this principle. The Pilgrims did
But she won’t listen. She thinks 
a human being with a twelve- 
iauge shotgun has an advantage 
ver a turkey. And I’ve told her, 
iVanda, there’s more turkeys that 
scape than there are getting 
fasted. We only kill the stupid 
neg. It’s important that the stu- 
id turkeys die. Darwin said so.” 
But you can’t use logic on this 
roman. So this year I’m gonna 
it down the complete rules and 
rocedures of turkey hunting so 
rat all you un-American Pilgrim- 
aters can understand.
1) We don’t chase down the 
irkeys. No man could move that 
ist while luggin a beer chest. We 
t iii a hollowed-out tree log with 
ashes on our head, and we make 
female turkey noise with a little 
¡edy rubber gizmo that sounds 
ikeafat man blowing his nose. If 
ou’re a male turkey, this sounds
JOE BOB GOES TO THE 
DRIVE IN
by Joe Bob Briggs
like a female turkey is saying, 
“Hey, Rambo, wanna party?” 
When you hear a gobble, that 
means a tom turkey is answering 
back, “I’m gonna clean your 
transmission, honey” — and, as 
soon as he gets close to you, you 
unload both barrels of buckshot 
and watch him crumple to the 
earth and bleed to death. In other 
words, it’s like working Times 
Square.
2) But let’s say you don’t want a 
tom turkey. You want a female. 
Most females are smarter than 
the males, so about the only ones 
you have a chance with are the 
jail-bait female turkeys, the ones 
that were hatched this spring. 
You can buy a honker called a 
“Kee Kee Run” that will make em 
think they’re going to an M.C. 
Hammer concert. Sometimes ten 
or twenty of em will run up to you 
together, like you’re the New Kids 
on the Block road manager. You 
can kill a lot more ofthese, because 
they’re smaller. We professional 
turkey hunters call this the Ro­
man Polanski Technique.
3) But the true turkey-hunting 
experts want to get old gobblers, 
the ones that are so old they don’t
mate anymore, and so you don’t 
have a chance using the singles- 
bar line. They’re just like human 
old people, though. All they wanna 
do is sit around and talk to other 
old turkeys and complain about 
their children. So what do you do? 
You make these horrible yelping 
sounds, which is what old gob­
blers sound like when they’re 
whining, and makes the elderly 
turkeys think you are an elderly 
turkey, too, and so you might be 
willing to listen to him. You’re 
making these noises that, to the 
turkey, sound like, “Have I told 
you about my kidney problem?” 
And so they slowly wander over to 
you, but they’re ornery. They don’t 
trust you. You’ve got to keep 
talking forever — and it’s worth 
it, because they’re the biggest 
turkeys you can kill. And so you 
throw in stuff like “There hasn’t 
been any decént music since 
Tommy Dorsey died,” and “That 
Sid Caesar — now there was a 
comedian.” And pretty soon the 
turkey comes over to bore you — 
only, as soon as he does, he gets 
three tons of shotgun pellets in 
his cute little elderly Mr. Grandpa 
Turkey face.
And Wanda thinks this is cruel 
to animals.
This is an art form.
And speaking of huge turkeys, 
Repossessed sounded like a great 
idea: Leslie Nielsen performs an 
exorcism on Linda Blair. But it’s 
one ofthose deals that can’t decide 
whether it wants to be a pure-dee 
Naked Gun ripoff, with 9,000 sight 
gags, or have a real honest-to- 
God comedy plot, and so it’s nei­
ther fish nor fowl, turkey nor carp.
It’s got some horse laughs in it, 
but you keep going“Shouldn’t I be 
laughing again by now?”
I don’t wanna be too hard on it, 
though, because Linda Blair is 
the ultimate drive-in star of the 
eighties. As rassling announcer 
Gene Okerlund says, “Nice 
breasts, but a face I wouldn’t 
wanna wipe my feet on.” (Actu­
ally, he doesn’t say breasts. He 
doesn’t say atomic duffel bags, 
either, but he should have.)
Actually, even when Linda Blair 
is spewing vomit all over her fam­
ily, like she is in this movie, she 
gets more attention from red- 
blooded American males than 
Playboy Playmates do. Whenever 
we wanna pump up the ratings on 
my cable show, we show a Linda 
Blair movie. I’m not kidding. 
Something about that East Ger­
man shot-putter look that just 
drives the guys wild. For once in 
my life I’m stumped. I can’t figure 
it out.
Four breasts. Chunk spewing. 
Poodle dog ground up in a tree- 
branch compactor. Fire-breath- 
ing. One motor vehicle chase. 745 
sight gags. Evian holy water. 
Gratuitous rap song. Gratuitous 
Wally George. Gratuitous Jack 
Lalanne. A 54 on the Vomit Meter. 
Split pea soup Fu. Drive-In 
Academy Award nominations for 
Anthony Starke, as the Catholic 
priest who motivates himself by 
reading “Believe in Yourself, by 
Charles Manson”; Bob Logan,-the 
same writer and director who 
made that timeless video classic 
“Up Your Alley,” for having the 
courage to put an Oliver North 
joke in a 1990 movie; Leslie
3:hg_ E—_:na bddh fdnd _pedn bfd 
vSbbdbb:Sh tA 4dg Ed_eeA _hgq f:b 
efd fS—:g_A u—_bb:u Repossessed.
Nielsen, as Father Mayii, for say­
ing “Luke, remember, when you 
fall on your face you’re still mov­
ing forward”; and, of course, 
Linda, for caking on the cracked- 
skin makeup, ratting her hair, 
puckering up again after all these 
years, turning herself into a giant 
ice-cream cone and screaming
f_b tddh p,——A fd_—dg Sp gd.Sh:u 
—:vbe:uV —:“_ng z:pd 3_h_ Cufz_ta :h
“Lick me! Lick me!” What an ac­
tress.
Two and a half stars. Joe Bob 
says check it out.
Joe Bob Briggs is the one and 
only Drive-In critic in Grapevine, 
Texas and fully supports turkey 
whopping.
usical genius Leonard Bernstein dies at age 72
Leonard Bernstein 
1918-1990
1920-
1925
1930-
1935
1940-
¦ Born August 25, Lawrence, 
Massachusetts.
- Begins piano lessons.
- Composes Piano Trio.
1950-
Í955
I— Graduates from Harvard, cum laude. 
Enters Curtis Institute of Music, 
Philadelphia.
Composes Jeremiah, Symphony No. 1.
- Conducts first concert outside of U.S. 
at Les Symphoniques de Montreal. 
Writes On the Town, musical comedy.
- Conducts first overseas performance at 
Czech Philharmonic, Prague.
- Marries Chilean actress and pianist,
i Felicia Montealegre Cohn.___________
- First appearance as a composer- 
pianist.
- Graduates from Curtis Institute.
- Invited to be assistant conductor of the 
Philharmonic-Society of New York and 
later substitutes for conductor Bruno 
Walter. Writes / Hate Music, five 
children’s songs.
- Starts three yea r directorsh ip of New 
York City Symphony.
F Composes Peter Pan, songs and choruses 
for the play.
1965
1975
Becomes first.American to conduct at 
La Scala, Milan. Writes Wonderful 
Town, a musical comedy.
- Son Alexander Serge Leonard born on 
July 7.
L- Writes West Side Story, musical.
- Premieres his Fanfare at Inaugural Gala 
for John F. Kennedy.
- Writes Mass, a theatre piece for 
singers, players, and dancers.
- Leads Concert for Peace with National 
Symphonic Orchestra at National 
Cathedral, Washington.
‘ Death of Felicia Montealegre Bernstein 
on June 16.
¦ Leonard Bernstein Day, Lawrence, 
Massachusetts, dedicated to nuclear 
disarmament, declared as August 25.
- Conducts at Schauspielhaus, Berlin in 
honor of the tearing down of the Berlin 
Wall.
Daughter Jamie Anne Maria born on 
September 8.
¦ Writes and performes in his first 
Omnibus telecast, on the sketches of 
Beethoven's Fifth Symphony.
- Writes Candide, comic operetta and 
overture. Signs first contract with CBS.
- Begins the first in a series of televised 
New York Philharmonic Young People's 
Concerts, beginning with "Wnat does 
Music Mean?”
' Gives last concert as music director of 
New York Philharmonic. Bernstein 
conducted 929 concerts with the 
orchestra, more than anyone else in 
the history of the NYP. Receives title of 
Conductor Laureate.
— Sings premiere of his song, “My Twelve 
Tone Melody,” in honor of Irving Berlin's 
100th birthday.
r Dies on October 14, Manhattan, New 
York.
Thomas Nichols/Tartan Senior Photographer
By DEXTER T. KOBAYASHI
Tartan Features Editor
Leonard Bernstein has died. It 
seems ironic that such a vibrant 
man should die from a mere heart 
attack—it would have been more 
fitting for him to die during a 
wrestling match with a lion, while 
making love, or after conducting 
Beethoven’s Fifth Symphony — 
but now he is dead.
His death not only concludes 
the career of a great conductor, 
but also marks the end of his life 
as a composer, musical director, 
writer, and teacher. Very few 
Leonards since another by the 
name of Da Vinci have been able 
to accomplish as much as 
Bernstein did in one lifetime.
Bernstein, the musician’s Re­
naissance man, was a co-con­
ductor of the New York Philhar­
monic when his most famous 
musical, West Side' Story, pre­
miered. Four months later, he 
began the first in a series of tele­
vised New York Philharmonic 
Young People’s Concerts. Within 
the next year, he had his first 
book, The Joy of Music, pub­
lished. No one could accuse 
Bernstein of not diversifying 
enough.
He was once asked, “Which of 
your different interests will you 
eventually choose to follow?” and 
he replied, “I want to do the thing 
which seems most like fun at the 
time.”
For such an accomplished and 
talented musician, Bernstein 
started his interests in music late 
in life.
His piano lessons began at the 
age of ten and he had never heard 
a live symphony orchestra play
until the age of sixteen. Music 
critic Virgil Thomson of the New 
York Herald said of him in 1940, 
“It might just come about, though, 
that ... [he will] ... build toward 
success on a sheer talent for ani­
mation and personal projection. I 
must say he worries us all a little 
bit.”
Though he is best known for his 
dramatic flair and powerful 
emotions while conducting, it is 
in his writings that his purposes 
can be best understood.
In an article for a dance maga­
zine in 1946, he wrote, “Perhaps 
one day we shall attain to a new 
Meaning, in a new frame of ref­
erence. which is intangible to us 
now. But for the present, we ‘ab­
stract’ artists, we musicians and 
dancers, have this to say to our­
selves: Relax. Invent. Perform. 
Have fun.”
Dr. Nuha Abudabbeh 
Founder, Na’im Foundation
on
The Psychological Effects of 
War and Trauma
Wherrett Room 7:30 pm 
October 25, 1990
Political Speakers Forum Board
Event
Funded by Activities Fee

---------------------------------------------------

L16The Tartan e Carnegie Mellon • 22 October 1990
By MARNI BOREK
Tartan Staffwriter
Too many subplots are the 
problem in Paramount Picture’s 
Welcome Home, Roxy Carmichael. 
Too many people are affected by 
Roxy’s homecoming. Perhaps it 
would be easier to consider Roxy’s 
own viewpoint on her return to 
her hometown....
Do I really want to go home? 
After all, there’s nothing there for
— Movie Review —
\\ P>39s0> Hs0>a xs”6 9Ux0M9HU>3# How a town and a it’s token 
rebel are affected by the return of Roxy Carmichael, who has become a 
living legend. Starring Winona Ryder, Jeff Daniels, Elizabeth Zaks, and 
Thomas Wilson Brown.
me except pathetic little people mission to see the toilet I once sat 
who’ve proclaimed a holiday in on. I wonder if they preserved my 
my name. I even heard that all of toothbrush, too. When you’re from 
Clyde, Ohio is being charged ad- a small town, you have to be re-
Free Sneak Preview
This Wednesday, 7:30 pm 
at Showcase Cinema North 
Just stop by the Tartan Office tomorrow and 
pick up your free pair of tickets. But hurry, 
there are only 50 pairs.
ally careful about becoming fa­
mous.
I know everyone is waiting for 
me. Denton Webb (Jeff Daniels) 
is having trouble with his wife 
because of me. Sounds like the 
same old Denton — still has no 
backbone. All he could do was 
kiss me goodbye when I left him 
with the baby. And what about 
Evelyn (Dinah Manoff)? I’m still 
the main topic of her conversa­
tions. A word of advice: never sleep 
with your best girlfriend. Both 
she and Denton are busy digging 
up old reminders of me, like my 
saddlebows and my pink dress!
I’ve even heard about my latest 
fan, Dinky Bossetti (Winona 
Ryder). Another rebel without a 
cause. She’s a weird kid. Never 
takes a shower, from what I hear. 
She’s got herself a little “Noah’s 
Ark” down by the river where she 
runs around with her best friends
— a pig, a goat, and three dogs. 
When I was her age, I was inter­
ested in sex, not whether or not I 
could recreate Pavlov’s experi­
ment with dogs! Then again, I 
don’t blame her for her attitude. 
If I saw my parents getting busy 
on the sample carpet mats at the 
family store, I would be pretty 
repulsed, too.
Anyway, Dinky thinks she’s my 
kid. I wouldn’t know. Maybe she 
is. The new guidance counselor 
back at the old high school (Laila 
Robbins) is trying to help Dinky 
straighten herself out. She takes 
the girl to the mall on a school 
day. When I went to school, the 
guidance counselor took me no­
where except that goddamn of­
fice!
Dinky does remind me a lot of 
myself, though. She’s always 
trying to be accepted on her own 
terms and no one really likes it. I 
had to get famous for Clyde to
P:hSh_ xAgdn v—_hb eS pS——Sz :h efd pSSebedvb Sp fdn eSzhRb —Su_— liVifi 
—dNdhg :h Jof9Sko 1Skog ES3B paykU9raof—
finally respect me. I went from 
trash to a deity. Maybe someday 
Dinky will learn what being dif­
ferent is all about. Sometimes it’s 
just not worth it.
I don’t know. If I go home I have 
to face a lot of people. What if I 
don’t live up to their expectations? 
And what if nobody enrolls at my 
Roxy Carmichael School of Drama 
and Cosmetology? The women in
Clyde sure do need that scho 
None of them know how to apf 
makeup. Obviously those M 
Factor commercials have taugl 
them nothing.
So what do I do? Do I £ 
and show off my new position: 
life? Or do I stay here and for? 
the past? I mean, who’s rea* 
going to welcome me, 
Carmichael, home?Murder surfaces at the planeteriufl
By MIKE SHAPIRO
Tartan Staffwriter
Everyone knows how inherently 
dangerous planétariums are. 
Why, you could be reduced to 
ashes by a stray laser beam, or 
skewered by Mister Arrow.
But premeditated murder is a 
bit beyond thé violence level of 
even the most hazardous of 
planétariums. Or is it?
The Buhl Science Center, lo­
cated in the North Side of Pitts­
burgh, is featuring an interactive 
murder mystery this Friday en- 
titled Murder in The Planetarium, 
replete with shady characters, 
sleuthing detectives, and, of 
course, a fresh cadaver.
The scene is the grand opening 
bash of the Buhl Science Center 
in 1939. Everyone who is anyone 
on the social scene is there, pre­
sumably since World War II hasn’t 
started and nobody has anything
better to do. The night is gay with 
mirth and mingling until some­
one, prompted by parties un­
known, suddenly makes the irre­
vocable transition to corpse sta­
tus.
Enter you, the diligent audience 
member. You’ll spend the evening 
conversing with the in-character 
actors, gathering clues, and try­
ing to piece together just who’s 
behind this villainy. Is it Duke 
Kane, Dr. Ober Parke, Ava Lawn,
or one of the other punnisW 
named suspects?
There’ll be food so you cang<$ 
yourself silly, and three hour: 
inquisitive skulking around Wt 
gumshoes on your flatfeet. Aw 
the mood hits you, the cast' 
courages you to show up in1^ 
1939 attire.
Also, if your investigations 1& 
you to correctly identify the rP 
derer, you may drive home with 
prize.
Murder in the Planetarium ¦ 
be committed on Friday fronnJ 
to 10:30 pm, at the Buhl Scietf 
Center. Admission is $15 ify°.u 
a member, and $20 othertfj- 
You’ve only got until Wednes i 
to make reservations, so y011 
better hurry if you’re _ 
partake in this evening of ® 
der and intrigue.
For further details and i!r 
mation call the planetaria 
237-3336.
How long will the new TV shows live?
By A. FRANKLIN WHEELER
Tartan Staffwriter
With the new television season 
already underway, you’re prob­
ably wondering what’s worth 
watching, and what’s likely to 
disappear in the next few weeks. 
So, below is a list of various pre­
dictions and suggestions con­
cerning the current season.
Bye-bye
Some programs just smell bad. 
E.A.R.T.H. Force (CBS) is al­
ready gone, and Sons and 
Daughters (CBS) was pulled from 
the schedule before even being 
aired. Some other new shows will 
soon be following. Ferris Bueller 
(NBC) pretends to be an adapta­
tion of the hit film, but it comes off 
as a boring and predictable story 
of an annoying, 'snotty high 
schooler we don’t care about at 
all.
The Family Man (CBS) is a time 
warp back to the seventies, fea­
turing a happy family with sitcom 
problems, not to mention a pro­
tagonist who is a fireman — 
Emergency! meets The Brady 
Bunch. And Babes (Fox) tries to
be a funny, yet thoughtful, look at of the semester, 
three overweight sisters. In actu­
ality, it is an insulting, offensive, 
and just plain dumb look at three 
fat women who yell a lot. Expect 
this one to be gone before the end
Catch ‘em while you can
A couple of good, or at least 
different, programs are out there, 
but it doesn’t look like they’ll last
long. Cop Rock (ABC) is certainly 
a critical favorite, and you have to 
give Steven Bochco credit for try­
ing something off-the-wall. I must 
admit though, that it is a bit dis­
concerting to see a burly cop sud­
denly burst into song. The ratings 
thus far seem to indicate that 
people would rather stick with 
the predictable Hunter on NBC. 
Cop will be gone by December, 
likely replaced by either Gabriel’s 
Fire or Equal Justice. ~
The Fanelli Boys (NBC) is also 
in a bad time slot, against the 
increasingly powerful Doogie 
Howser (ABC). But this sitcom 
about a huge Italian family living 
under the same roof is funny, with 
at least one big laugh per episode. 
(Who would expect less from the 
writers who gave us The Golden 
Girls.?)
Hull High (NBC) is predictable 
high school fluff, but with music. 
The singing and dancing seems to 
fit in here a little better than it 
does in Cop Rock. Too bad 
nobody’s watching it. And 
American Chronicles (Fox), a 
documentary series from Mark 
Frost, is a pleasure to watch — 
but it seems to belong on PBS.
9—_bbA be,pp
Some of the new entries do stand 
out and have a good chance of 
succeeding.
Parker Lewis Can’t Lose (Fox), 
with zany camera angles, stilted 
dialogue, and extremely over­
exaggerated sound effects, never 
fails to entertain — and Parker 
does a much better Ferris Bueller 
imitation than Ferris Bueller. 
Look for Parker to move to 
Thursdays at 8:30, replacing the 
doomed Babes. I can’t think of a 
better companion to The 
Simpsons.
Working it Out (NBC) with 
Stephen Collins and Jane Curtin, 
is damn good. Gabriel’s Fire (ABC) 
and The Trails of Rosie O’Neill 
(CBS) both boast superior talent 
and scripts (although Fire will 
have to find a better time slot in 
order to succeed). The Flash (CBS) 
is too expensive and too well-done 
to die an early death. If it doesn’t 
work at 8:30 on Thursdays, it will 
find a new time slot. The same 
goes for Lenny (CBS), a blue-col­
lar comedy that shows promise. It 
is currently waiting for a good 
slot to open up — possibly Satur­
day at 8 pm, where it has a chance
of succeeding.
Evening Shade (CBS) is a i)jc 
little program that will find ^ 
audience eventually. The sam 
can’t be said for veteran Quanta 
Leap (NBC), which will die if 
stays in its current time slot. An, 
Doctor, Doctor (CBS) will finajj, 
get the audience it deserves at it 
new Thursday time, spelling^ 
saster for the new, horrible vej 
sion of Grand (NBC).
And finally, a list of the pro 
grams that will no longer be wit 
us (in my opinion) by next fall. 
From ABC: The Young Rider. 
China Beach, Head of the Cla* 
Married People, Cop Rock, Fath? 
Dowling Mysteries, Going Pld'ct 
From CBS: The Family Afa, 
The Hogan Family, Murder, Sh 
Wrote, Uncle Buck, Top Copi 
Dallas.
From NBC: Parenthoot 
American Dreamer, Hull Hig\ 
Lifestories, Ferris Bueller, Lq\ 
and Order, Grand, Night Court 
Wings.
And from Fox: Totally Hiddt 
Video, Haywire, Amerind 
Chronicles, True Colors, Goa 
Grief, Against the Law, h 
Beverly Hills 90210.
Roxy Carmichael should have never returned

---------------------------------------------------

The Tartan • Carnegie Mellon • 22 October 1990L17
W. Ellis Porter lands a role on Broadway
PORTER, from page 1
from the crowd and get a call­
back. Things got a little stickier 
‘ijvhen controversy threatened to 
fake everything away. “My audi­
tion was postponed and postponed 
and postponed and then it was 
cancelled along with the show.”
“ The trouble began when Actors’ 
'Equity objected to the casting of 
English actor Jonathan Piyce in 
the role of an Eurasian pimp. The 
actors’ union wanted to see an 
Asian actor in the part. Producer 
Cameron Mackintosh, refusingto 
either appeal this decision or 
buckle under pressure, an­
nounced that the show was can­
celled. Within two weeks of this 
liold measure, Actors’ Equity re­
versed its decision and gave 
Mackintosh complete freedom in 
casting each part.
This put Porter back in the run­
ning, and, as of last week, he has 
his own part in the play. As for all 
E^he controversy, Porter com- 
'riients, “The question of ethnic 
Minorities in the theater is some-
\
? $
a
D. A. Henderson/Tartan Darkroom Manager 
P# >——:b QSnedn :b Sh#eSv Sp efd zSn—g _he:u:v_e:hN f:b nS—d :h xUCC .aUlSt—
thing that needed to be addressed, show’s future looks bright.
but how they went about it was 
wrong.” Porter argues that since 
the pimp is both French and 
Vietnamese, either a European 
or an Asian could play the part.
Also, Porter adds that “this show 
will bring a lot of work to Asian 
actors for a very longtime.” True, 
there are twenty-nine other roles 
for Asian performers. And with 
advanced ticket sales around a 
record thirty million dollars, the
J3y A. FRANKLIN WHEELER
Tartan Staffwriter
I must admit that the concept is 
a little scary: an entire series cen­
tering on an adult paperboy? Af­
ter getting over the initial gag 
reflex, however, I discovered a 
witty and entertaining program. 
Chris Elliott handles the role of a 
l-for-nothing bum with great 
aplomb, and this show should 
make a good companion to In 
Living Color and Married... with 
Children on Fox’s Sunday lineup.
The story goes like this: Chris 
Peterson (Elliott) is a grown man 
who still lives at home (above his 
parents’ garage) and delivers 
newspapers for a living. His 
piother and father, played by Bob 
Clliott (Chris’ real-life father) and 
Slinor Donahue, are straight out 
if the fifties, except instead of 
ieing proud of their son, they 
ipenly wonder where they went 
¡vrong.
In the premiere episode, we are 
introduced to Chris’ nerdy friend 
-arry (Sam Robards), a man with 
hick glasses, a dead-end job, and 
[a nagging wife. Chris, in an effort 
to alleviate Larry’s seemingly in- 
erminable depression, convinces 
lim to take a day off and go to the 
imusement park — where a wild 
tew roller coaster, the Hell Loop 
2000, is opening. In typical sitcom 
‘ashion, Chris and Larry get stuck 
upside-down on the roller coaster 
for several hours, and, after they 
pe rescued, Larry’s boss (who 
ust happens to be visiting the 
park) fires him for playing hooky. 
'Naturally, it’s up to Chris to save 
the day, convincing the boss to 
give Larry “just one more chance.” 
: Okay, I admit that this isn’t 
‘Great TV.” But it is funny. The 
ines have a Married ... with 
Children edge to them; the in- 
lults fly fast and furious. But
PREMIERE, from page L13
io something like that.”
When it came to making the 
¦ombies and some grisly special 
¡Sects, Everett Burrell and John 
Jfulich came into play, 
j In the original film everyone 
|as sort of believable,” said 
jurrell. “There wasn’t that much 
ftnsh makeup effects in the 
yiginal film and that’s what kind 
' ed up to the sense of belie vabil- 
P’ these people could have been 
pur next door neighbors.”
| owever, today’s movie audi- 
»ces are harder to fool that they 
'fe 22 years ago. “We had to 
. e advantage of more of the 
a e-of-the-art effects,” said 
prell. “So we gave them what 
audience wanted, but we 
?c ed up to the point where it 
' ^snt really in y0ur face.” 
n their quest for realistic-look- 
g zombies, the two ended up 
mg out everything they could 
.0ut ™hat People actually look 
e when they’re dead. They
Miss Saigon is scheduled to open 
on April 11 of next year, and Por­
ter plans to leave for New York in 
early January. So there is still the 
question of when and if he will 
receive his diploma. Porter says, 
“I’ve been here three and a half 
years. I’ve done the work. I’m only 
missing one semester.” Also, Por­
ter says that the final semester of 
drama is designed to prepare the 
students for working in the pro­
fessional world of actors, which 
Porter will already be doing. The 
actor is confident that he will 
graduate in May with the rest of 
his class.
Elizabeth Orion, head of the 
Drama department, agrees with 
Porter. She says that Porter will 
have to petition to get school credit 
for the work he does in Miss 
Saigon, but that there should be 
no problems with him graduating 
as planned.
Orion says, “I am always de­
lighted when one of our seniors 
gets an opportunity like this.”
Naturally, Porter’s friends, 
family, and colleagues are glad to 
see him taking this job. “My 
mother is ecstatic,” Porter reports.
Senior drama major Greg Stuhr, 
who recently appeared with Por­
ter in A Chorus Line, speaks for 
his entire class. “We hate him, 
but I’m glad we’re such good 
friends with him,” Stuhr quips.
Senior Jeffrey Kubiatowicz 
says, “We’re not exactly compet­
ing with Billy for roles, so I feel
“We hate him, but I'm glad we're 
such good friends with him.”
— Greg Stuhr, 
senior drama major
great. It’s reassuring.“
Stuhr adds, “I guess you would 
tend to worry if the people here 
were not getting jobs because 
you’re around them all the time.... 
and if they weren’t getting jobs, 
you’d tend to worry about your­
self.”
Porter’s classmates also plan to 
catch a performance of Miss 
Saigon to cheer their friend on. 
“Most of us are going to New York 
in May.... and I imagine the first 
thing on the agenda would be to 
see Billy’s show.”
Even though he’ll be headed for 
Broadway soon, Porter still has 
work left to do in the upcoming 
Kresge production of Antigone. 
He’s single-handedly playing the
role of the chorus, a part usually 
taken by two or more people. “I’m 
a little scared,” Porter admits.
Although Porter’s role calls for 
some singing, Antigone is a big 
change from musicals. Porter says 
he gravitates toward roles in 
musicals because “I have a voice 
and I can dance.” However, he 
says “I’d love to be in films or TV.”
Saying good-bye to everything 
he has here in Pittsburgh will not 
be without its difficulties for Por­
ter. “I’m going to miss my friends 
and this atmosphere and I’m go­
ing to miss being in Jesus Christ, 
Superstar. But,” he adds with 
growing excitement in his voice, 
“I’m going to be in the original 
cast of a Broadway show.”
Drop out, have fun, 
and watch Get a Life
— Television Review —
k>m U 3MF># Sunday at 8:30 pm, 
channel 53 (Fox). Laugh along with 
a 30-year-old paperboy who still lives 
above his parents’ garage. Starring 
Chris Elliott, Bob Elliott, Elinor 
Donahue, and Sam Robards.
unlike A1 Bundy, Chris Peterson 
is basically content with who he is 
and what he has — and he never 
stops having fun. He even likes 
his job (and never hesitates to 
point out that he is head paper­
boy). He’s a permanent kid, al­
ways happily immature. He 
doesn’t try to defend the way he 
lives because he doesn’t need to 
— he’s the only truly happy 
character in the show.
So in order to enjoy life, we 
should ignore our parents, drop 
out of school, watch a lot of TV, 
and just have fun. Probably not a 
philosophy that many of us at 
CMU share. But think about it— 
what’s in the future? I mean, let’s 
face it; a lot of us, a few years 
down the road, will be among the 
multitude of Larrys in this world: 
stuck in a marriage with no love 
left, cornered in a career we don’t 
like.... That job at the 7-Eleven is 
starting to look more and more 
appealing.
Maybe that’s why Get a Life 
works so well: because in Chris 
Peterson, we see a part of our­
selves, a hidden desire to say the 
heck with school and studying 
and doing what’s expected. 
Maybe, deep down, we all want to 
be like Chris Peterson, without a 
care in the world. Maybe, just 
maybe, Get a Life gives us an op­
portunity to finally live out our 
fantasies, if only vicariously.
Or maybe it’s just a damn good 
show.
Night assaults Pittsburgh
studied photographs of people 
with horrible conditions involv­
ing disease or trauma or even 
concentration camp inmates “be­
cause they were as close as a per­
son comes to the living dead,” 
commented Vulich.
Vulich even went as far to visit 
“the coroner here in Pittsburgh,” 
where he got a chance to see “real 
bodies which were autopsied.”
“Tom [Savini] wanted the zom­
bies to be very fresh looking,” said 
Burrell. “He didn’t want anything 
to look like it just' came out of the 
ground.”
If the zombies roaming around 
the lobby were any indication of 
what the zombies in Night looked 
like, then Burrell and Vulich had 
indeed accomplished their goal.
As the night wore on, and the 
reporters and horror fanatics 
started to filter out, Russo ended 
the evening with the comment, 
“It will be very interesting to see 
how it does. We think it will do 
well. Only time will tell.”
COMING N O V R M B F. R 8
Darol Anger
David Balakrishnan
Mark Summer
Katrina Wreede
Turtle Island String Quartet
Jazz: it's nothing like mutant ninjas
camegie
mellón
WYEr9UFMHear tfte difference

---------------------------------------------------

If you think all of the best software engineering opportunities are on the West 
Coast, think again. In the last two years, Visix has advanced to the forefront of the 
UNIX computing world by producing some of the industry’s most sophisticated 
applications and tools.
Visix is a young, growing company developing innovative software for 
high-performance workstations. Looking Glass, our flagship product, is the ultimate 
graphical user environment for UNIX workstations. Our future products will use 
sound, animation and other advanced features to bring unprecedented power to 
end-user applications.
Be a part of a new generation of workstation software engineers. We’re looking for 
candidates who possess strong skills in graphics, C and UNIX and have experience 
with the X Window System and the Macintosh. Because we value speed and 
efficiency, our engineers must have a strong general knowledge of system software, 
networks, assemblers, hardware architectures and instruction sets. Enthusiasm, 
creativity and energy are a must!
Our work atmosphere is challenging and intense. We offer attractive benefits, 
competitive salaries and a comprehensive relocation package. If you’re ready to 
be a part of the new center of innovation for workstation software engineering, 
think Visix.
Submit your resume to the Career Placement Center today. We’ll be holding interviews 
at Carnegie Mellon on Monday, November 19, 1990.
For more information, please contact:
Kristin Arnold 
Visix Software Inc.
11440 Commerce Park Drive 
Reston, VA 22091 
Fax: 703.758.0233 
Tel: 800.832.8668
__________________________________________________________________________________________________________
SI!Ih
m
The New Center Of Innovation For 
Software Engineering.

---------------------------------------------------

The Tartan • Carnegie Mellon • 22 October 1990LL9
étíkÉt6m
Thursday, October 25
Burroughs
William Burroughs has been called “the father of 
Beat” and the “grand-daddy of Punk.” Obviously, he 
is a talented writer who caters well to the younger 
American generation.
In this film account of his life, William S. Burroughs 
talks about his heroin addiction and the William Tell 
manner in which he shoots his wife. The movie also 
includes interviews from his friends and admirers 
and some brief readings from his works.
Besides Burroughs, the film’s cast includes Patti 
Smith, Lauren Hutton, and Allen Ginsberg, who are 
all well known in their field of work.
Although most biographical films are not well 
received, the frankness of the film and Burroughs’ 
bizarre tales make it worth the dollar.
At 6, 8,10
Friday, October 26
An American Werewolf 
in London
Two men are attacked by a wolf on the British 
moors while vacationing in England. One dies, but 
the other lives on to become ... a werewolf! As a 
werewolf in training, the young man tries to fight off 
the curse, but it is of no use. So when the moon 
becomes fioll, he croons his howling song.
To make matters worse, the werewolf s best friend 
refuses to leave him alone. He comes back to remind 
his friend of the horrible night. As time goes on, and 
the werewolf cannot fight off his uncontrollable urges, 
he takes on a new hobby — killing people. To his 
surprise, these people also come back to haunt him. 
Everyone knows “the dead don’t stay buried.”
The movie’s cast includes David Naughton, Jenny 
Agutter, Griffin Dunne, John Woodvine, and Brian 
Glover. Although the movie is a full-blooded horror 
film, it offers sharp humor and reveres many of the 
horror films of the past.
At 6, 8,10,12
Saturday, October 27
Nuns On the Run
Why does Eric Idle feel obliged to demolish his 
career as a comic actor? One doesn’t expect Monty 
Python-level humor from the man these days, but 
while his colleagues are starring in solid ticklers like 
A Fish Called Wanda, Idle perpetrates such tepid 
crud as Nearly Departed and, more recently, Nuns On 
the Run.
The plot of the latter, if you care, goes like this: two 
criminals (gentle, sensitive fellows, of course, just 
like real felons) must evade some random crime mob, 
and decide to stash away in a nice inconspicuous 
location like a Catholic school, disguised as nuns. 
Sort of like a spiritually lobotomized version of the 
Some Like it Hot scenario.
In brief, your dollar gets you lots of pointless 
action, a few sitcom clichés passed off as humor, and 
a soundtrack that sounds like someone left the 
Nintendo on. Perhaps some mild sympathetic value 
for those who underwent religious schooling, but 
Spainful for the rest of us'. Unless you’re a die-hard 
Python fan, or find British slapstick funnier than 
someone laughing milk through their nose, stay away.
At 6, 8,10,12
Sunday, October 28
Creature From the 
Black Lagoon
Just when they thought it was safe to vacation in 
he Amazons....
A group of scientists on an expedition find the 
agoon to be a source of terror when they encounter a 
Prehistoric man-fish inhabiting the area. They are 
|orced to fight for their lives. Can they save them- 
es from becoming a tuna dinner for the beast?
Ihe 3-D effects of the film give the underwater 
¦cenes a more realistic look, and the bone-chilling 
"Coie of Joseph Gershenson is likely to scare the 
pants off any horror movie buff. The actors Richard 
•Prison, Julie Adams, and Richard Denning deliver 
¦tue-to-life performances.
Run down to DH2210, get those funky 3-D glasses 
an watch the classic horror film unfold.
At 6, 8,10,12
% MARNI BOREK and MIKE SHAPIRO
TV BREAK
A summary of upcoming epi­
sodes of Carnegie Mellon’s favor­
ite TV shows.
Regular Network Programs
CHEERS. Thursday at 9 pm, 
channel 11 (NBC). Robin’s work­
ing on a road gang, much to 
Rebecca’s dismay; and the Hun­
gry Heifer is closing its doors, 
causing Norm to stage a protest.
DOCTOR, DOCTOR. Thurs­
day at 9:30 pm, channel 2 (CBS). 
When Mike and Leona try to gang 
up on an annoying new assistant, 
they are dismayed to discover that 
Richard likes the new guy.
DOOGIE HOWSER, M.D. 
Wednesday at 9 pm, channel 4 
(ABC). Vinnie has the audacity to 
ask Doogie for one of his old biology 
papers; and at the hospital, Doogie 
is told to invent a disease to sat­
isfy a rich hypochondriac.
THE FLASH. Thursday at 8:30 
pm, channel 2 (CBS). A gang of 
thieves plan a museum heist, but 
a Federal agent closes the exhi­
bition when learns who’s leading 
the gang.
LA. LAW. Thursday at 10 pm, 
channel 11 (NBC). ‘ Rollins has 
mixed feelings about working on 
the Chisholm case; Brackman 
becomes nervous about continu­
ing his relationship with sex 
surrogate Marilyn after a scandal 
involving a senator; and Murray 
manages to grab some attention.
MURPHY BROWN. Monday 
at 9 pm, channel 2 (CBS). Raun­
chy journalist Jerry Gold joins 
F.Y.I. for a series of debates with 
old flame Murphy.
QUANTUM LEAP. Friday at 
8 pm, channel 11 (NBC). A spooky 
outing for Sam, in which he in­
habits the body of a horror novelist 
who must save his wife from death 
by midnight.
THE SIMPSONS. Thursday at 
8 pm, channel 53 (Fox). A Hal­
loween special in which Bart and
Lisa exchange scary stories (with 
special guest voice James Earl 
Jones).
STAR TREK: THE NEXT 
GENERATION. Sunday at 7 pm, 
channel 22 (WPTT). One by one 
people on board the Enterprise 
are mysteriously disappearing.
THIRTYSO ME THING. 
Tuesday at 10 pm, channel 4 
(ABC). In a repeat of the 1987 
pilot episode, Eliot’s had an affair, 
Ellyn’s jealous of the baby, and 
Hope and Michael are new par­
ents. (Repeat)
TWIN PEAKS. Saturday at 10 
pm, channel 4 (ABC). Cooper tells 
Harry where to find Audrey; 
Leland goes to court.
THE WONDER YEARS. 
Wednesday at 8 pm, channel 4 
(ABC). Oo la la—another woman 
in Kevin’s life. Madeline comes 
over to help Kevin prepare French 
food, and, well, one thing leads to 
another.
New Shows
OVER MY DEAD BODY.
Friday at 9 pm, channel 2 (CBS). 
A nice little mystery series in the 
Murder, She Wrote vein. Maxwell 
Beckett is a former Scotland Yard 
detective who now lives in San 
Francisco. He is pressured back 
into investigational duties by a 
young obit writer who is convinced 
she saw a murder — even though 
the police don’t believe her. Star­
ring Edward Woodward and Jes­
sica Lundy.
WTOU. Wednesday at 10 pm, 
channel 2 (CBS). Premiere of an 
ensemble drama that has been 
compared to St. Elsewhere and 
Lou Grant. News director Hank 
Zaret has been hired to save the 
low-rated news at WNDY-TV 
(called “WIOU” by cynical staff­
ers). His first duty is to find a new 
anchor — the old one just died. 
Starring John Shea, Helen 
Shaver, Harris Yulin, Mariette
Hartley, Phil Morris, Jane Brook, 
and Dick Van Patten.
Special Programs 
THE BREAKFAST CLUB.
Tuesday at 8 pm, channel 53 
(WPGH). John Hughes directs 
this thoughtful look at five very 
different high school students who 
are forced to spend an all-day 
detention together. Starring 
Emilio Estevez, Molly Ringwald, 
Ally Sheedy, Paul Gleason, An­
thony Michael Hall, John Kapelos, 
and Judd Nelson.
NINE TO FIVE. Monday at 8 
pm, channel 22 (WPTT). The 
classic story of secretarial re­
venge. Starring Jane Fonda, Lily 
Tomlin, Dolly Parton, Dabney 
Coleman, and Sterling Hayden.
PRIMETIME LIVE. Thursday 
at 10 pm, channel 4 (ABC). Diane 
Sawyer visits the set of F.Y.I. to 
talk with her fictional counter­
parts, the stars of Murphy Brown.
Cable Programs 
BLACK RAIN. Monday at 11 
pm, Cinemax.Acorrupt New York 
policeman plunges into the Japa­
nese underworld to locate an es­
caped prisoner. Starring Michael 
Douglas and Andy Garcia.
CAMPUS MAN. Tuesday at 10 
pm, Showtime. A college student 
becomes a media sensation after 
appearing in a calendar. Starring 
John Dye and Steve Lyon.
CARRIE. Friday at 11:20 pm, 
TBS. A tormented teenager uses 
her supernatural powers to gain 
revenge on the schoolmates who 
abused her. Starring Sissy Spacek 
and John Travolta.
CAT’S EYE. Saturday at 12:20 
am, TBS. Amysterious feline links 
a trio of macabre Stephen King 
stories. Starring James Woods 
and Kenneth McMillian.
DIE HARD. Friday at 10 pm, 
HBO. A streetwise New York cop 
confronts terrorists when his es­
tranged wife’s California office 
building comes under siege. 
Starring Bruce Willis and Bonnie 
Bedelia.
EIGHT MEN OUT. Thursday 
at 12:30 pm, The Movie Channel. 
Eight ballplayers from the seem­
ingly unbeatable Chicago White 
Sox are accused of throwing the 
1919 World Series. Starring John 
Cusack and Charlie Sheen.
ERIK THE VIKING. 
Wednesday at 4 pm, The Movie 
Channel. A peaceful Viking leads 
his Norsemen to Asgard in hopes 
of ending the Age of Ragnarok, a 
time of senseless violence and 
death. Starring Tim/Robbins and 
Gary Cady.
EXCALEBUR. Thursday at 10 
am, The Movie Channel. Merlin 
the sorcerer helps young Arthur 
gain England’s two greatest 
treasures, the enchanted sword 
Excalibur and the beautiful ' 
Guinevere. Starring Nicol 
Williamson and Nigel Terry.
MY MOM’S A WEREWOLF. 
Thursday at 7:30 pm, Cinemax. 
She was bitten by a pet-store 
owner. Starring John Saxon and 
Susan Blakely.
SATURDAY THE 14TH 
STRIKES BACK. Friday at 6:30 
pm, Cinemax. Many monsters 
make for a melancholy birthday 
party. Starring Jason Presson.
SHAG. Tuesday at 9:45 am and 
8 pm, and Thursday at 12 mid­
night, HBO. All about high 
schoolers who head for Myrtle 
Beach in 1963 for one final fling. 
Starring Phoebe Cates.
VIVIEN LEIGH: SCARLETT 
AND BEYOND. Monday at 8 pm, 
TNT. A documentary looking at 
the highs and lows in the life of 
this famous actress. Hosted by 
Jessica Lange.
Compiled by 
STEPHEN GLICKER & 
A. FRANKLIN WHEELER
Merck will be visiting 
your campus soon. Sign up now 
for a personal interview 
and learn how Merck can 
help you reach your most 
ambitious career goals.
We re a preeminent developer of health cure technology as well 
as careers. Producing a wide range of answers to infection, pain 
and disease. What’s more. Merck is a world leader in the protec­
tion of animals and crops.
To an exceptional graduate, this means growth. Simply because 
of Merck’s continuing success in its endeavors and major plans 
for the future.
If you’re at the head of your class in engineering, life and 
physical science, business, liberal arts or law, you may qualify for 
an extraordinary career with Merck.
For more information on how Merck can help you 
reach your most ambitious career goals, sign up for a 
personal interview when Merck visits your campus.
INTERVIEW ON:
0Shg_Aa sueStdn ryawyyl 
EC ! 0C ! QfI 9fd.a 9f> 
ECD Mhg 0N.ea Mhg >hN 
EC ! 0C 9S.v,edn Cu:dhud
Or,, you can write directly to: Theresa Marinelli, Manager. 
College Relations and Professional Employment.
Merck & Co., Inc.
RO. Box 2000 • Rahway, NJ 07065
We not only develop extraordinary products, we develop extra­
ordinary careers. Merck is an equal opportunity employer M/F.

---------------------------------------------------

Culture
Dinosaurs Alive! An exhibit of animated 
dinosaurs returns to the Carnegie Museum 
of Natural History from now until Sunday. 
Tickets: $6 for adults, $3 with student IDs. 
Museum hours: Tuesday, Wednesday, 
Thursday, and Saturday 10 am to 5 pm; 
Friday 10 am to 9 pm; Sunday 1 to 5 pm. For 
tickets, call 622-6500.
The Russian Contemporary Poster Art 
Exhibit will be displayed at the Hewlett 
Gallery in CFA from now until Friday. Call 
x3673 for more information.
Architectural Brochures: History, Hype, 
and Graphic Design, an exhibit of archi­
tectural promotional materials from the 
Pittsburgh region taken from the archives of 
CMU’s Architecture Department, will be dis­
played from now until next month. This dis­
play, dating from the 1890s to the present, 
will be on the 4th floor of the Hunt Library. 
Admission is free.
54 Collectively is now showing at Gallery G 
on 9th Street in downtown. This exhibit in­
cludes works of CMU professor Fred Carlson. 
Call 562-0912 for more information.
Dance Alloy. David Gordon’s “Weather” from 
his epic United. States, Jerry Pearson’s 
“Necessary Losses,” Michael Kane’s “Sehet,” 
and Jennifer Sargent’s “Our Faces, My Heart” 
will be performed at Chatham’s Eddy Theatre 
Thursday through Sunday. Call 621-6670 for 
more information.
This week at The Forbes Gallery: The
works of Ben Hoffman, Elizabeth Meadows, 
and Inho Shin will be exhibited starting to­
morrow and lasting until Sunday. Receptions 
are held every Friday evening from 7 to 9. 
Call x2081 for more information.
Admission for all Pittsburgh Playhouse films 
is $3. Admission for DH 2210 is $1.
The Red Shoes plays at the Pittsburgh 
Playhouse tonight at 7:30 and 9:50 pm.
Anna Karenina will play at the Pittsburgh 
Playhouse tomorrow at 7:30 and 9:30 pm.
Women on the Verge of a Nervous 
Breakdown will play at the Pittsburgh 
Playhouse Wednesday at 7:30 and 9:30 pm.
Burroughs will play in DH 2210 Thursday 
at 6, 8, and 10 pm.
Tie Me Up! Tie Me Down! will play at the 
Pittsburgh Playhouse Thursday at 7:30 and 
9:30 pm.
An American Werewolfin London will play 
in DH 2210 Friday at 6, 8,10, and midnight.
Dick Tracy will play at the Pittsburgh 
Playhouse Friday at 7:30 and 9:30 pm.
Nuns on the Run will play in DH 2210 Sat­
urday at 6, 8,10, and midnight.
Days ofThunder will play at the Pittsburgh 
Playhouse Saturday at 7:30 and 9:30 pm.
Creature from the Black Lagoon will play 
in DH 2210 Sunday at 6,8,10, and midnight.
Gilda will play at the Pittsburgh Playhouse 
Sunday at 7:30 and 9:30 pm.
A.T.S. and the Feral Family will perform 
Friday at 10 pm at The Backroom in 
Southside.
Bob Dylan will perform at the Syria Mosque 
tonight at 7:30 pm. Call 333-9550 for ticket 
information.
“Can Music Wake the Dead?” This Pitts­
burgh Symphony special Halloween program 
will be performed Wednesday, October 31, at 
8 pm in Heinz Hall. Tickets range from $7.70 
to $18.70. Call 682-6886 for more information.
Fun Flicks Videos! Make your own lip synch 
videos free of charge; AB Special Events will 
pick up the tab. Wednesday, November 7, 
from 12:30 to 6:30 pm in the Tartan Lounge. 
Call x5396 for more information.
SportsNotices
The Pittsburgh Steelers on TV. The Help a local child in need of a bone 
Steelers host the Los Angeles Rams on marrow transplant. Contact Paul Nagy 
Monday Night Football next Monday, Octo- x5500. Sponsored by Greek Council Philan- 
ber 29, at 9 pm in Three Rivers Stadium. TV thropy. Also, attend a Greek Council meeting! 
coverage on ABC affiliate WTAE, Channel 4. tomorrow at 9 pm in Skibo 2a.
NHL action with the Pittsburgh Pen­
guins. The Pens host Montreal tomorrow, 
Quebec on Thursday, and the New York Is­
landers Sunday. All games are at 7:30 pm in 
the Civic Arena.
The Tartan Football Team vs. Geneva 
College. Watch the Tartans play the last 
home game of the season Saturday at 1:30 pm 
on Gesling Field.
Men’s Soccer Team will compete against 
Geneva College Thursday at 7:30 pm on 
Gesling Field. This is the soccer team’s last 
home game of the season.
Eucharist, at 11:15 am Sunday in the 
Lutheran University Center. Contact Ruth 
Degenkolb at 682-6886 for more information.
The Roman Catholic Oratory celebrates 
Mass on campus every weekend, Saturday 
nights at 7 and Sunday mornings at 10:30 in 
the Graduate School of Industrial Adminis­
tration Auditorium. A solemn Sunday Mass 
is celebrated at noon Sundays in Heinz 
Chapel. Daily Mass is celebrated at 12:30 pm 
in Carnegie Mellon’s Chapel (Skibo 39). Call
681-3181 for more information.
The Pittsburgh New Music Ensemble
presents the Latin American group, “En- 
cuentros,” tonight at 8 pm in the Mellon 
Institute Auditorium. Tickets are $10 each, 
or $5 for students or senior citizens. Call 261- 
0554 for more information.
Cynthia Pock, organist at Sunset Hills 
Presbyterian Church, will play an organ 
composition this Sunday at 9:30 pm in Heinz 
Chapel. Sacred choral music will follow. Call
682-6886 for more information.
The Pittsburgh Symphony Orchestra will 
perform “The Music of Alfred Schnittke and 
Shostakovich” Thursday and Saturday at 8 
pm and Friday at 8:30 pm in Heinz Hall. 
Tickets range from $15.95 to $34.10. Call 
392-4891 for more information.
The Night of the Iguana, a Tennessee 
Williams classic, is being performed at the 
Pittsburgh Public Theatre until November 4 
in Allegheny Square, Northside. Call 321- 
9800 for ticket information.
Merlin and Arthur, a Medieval fantasy, is 
being performed by the Playhouse Junior 
Children’s Theatre until November 18 at the 
Pittsburgh Playhouse Theatre Center. Call 
621-4445 for more information. Sponsored by 
the Pittsburgh Playhouse.
The Mulatto’s Orgy will be performed to­
morrow through Friday in the Kresge Theatre 
at 8 pm, and Saturday at 2 pm. Admission is 
free. Contact the Drama Box Office at x2407 
for more information.
Otello, an opera by Giuseppe Verdi in Italian 
with English translations projected above 
the stage, will be performed starting tomor­
row at 8 pm in the Benedum Center and 
continuing Saturday and next Wednesday. 
Tickets range from $17 to $69. Call 456-6666 
for more information.
La Cage Aux Folles will be performed by 
the Playhouse Theatre Company tomorrow 
through November 18 at the Pittsburgh 
Playhouse Theatre Center. Call 621-4445 for 
more information.
Murder in the Planetarium, an interac­
tive “whodunit,” will be performed at the 
Buhl Science Center Friday from 7:30 to 
10:30 pm. Tickets are $20.
Scotch ‘N’ Soda presents The Atheist and 
Particle Flow, both at 7 and 9 pm in the 
Wherrett Room Sunday. Admission is free. 
Also, Scotch ’N’ Soda needs writers and 
readers for its fall series of writer workshops. 
Next meeting in Skibo 60 at 6 pm on Thurs­
day. Call x3522 for more information.
Lectures
Attend the Modern Language Program’s 
language tables weekly any time bet 
11:30 and 1 pm in the Morewood Dining 
Room. Ranchi O Nihon-Go De on Mondays'’ 
Russkaya Beseda Tuesdays (at noon), La! 
Mesa Española Wednesdays, Deutscher 
Stammtisch Thursdays, and La Table 
Française Fridays.
The Student Advisory Council (SAC) of 
the Art Department is the organized forum 
for art students to become active in the affairs 
of the Art Department. Meetings are held 
today and every other Monday at 4:30 pm in 
the Student Lounge, room 404 in CFA.
International Coffee Hour, this Wednes­
day at 4:30 pm in the Skibo Faculty Lounge. 
Sponsored by Modern Languages.
“Managing Your Career,” the college ca­
reer guidebook from The Wall Street Journal, 
will be available for free Thursday in the 
Career Planning and Placement office.
Sweepstakes freerolls will be held Satur*« 
“Facing the Qualifiers” will be given today day, Sunday, and November 3 and 4from6tol 
at 12:30 pm in Hamburg Hall 1001. Part of 9 am on Frew and Tech Streets and 
the Graduate Student Luncheon Seminar Schenley Drive. Contact Ray Fratto at 683-: 
Series. Call x3356 for more information. 6413 for more information.
The Ford Corporation’s Technical 
Seminar will be held today at 2 pm in Scaife 
Hall. The subject will be Remote Parameter 
Control (RPC) Road Simulators.
“A Failure Criterion in Finite Elasticity 
for Composite Materials,” a lecture by Dr. 
William W. Feng of the Lawrence Livermore 
National Laboratory, will be given Wednes­
day at 3:15 pm in the Scaife Hall Auditorium. 
Part of the Department of Mechanical 
Engineering’s Guest Lecture Series. Call T.R. 
Kurfess at x3529 for more information.
“Oil Shale: Future Fuel for America or a 
Distant Dream,” a lecture by Raymond I. 
Zahradnik of Occidental Oil, will be given 
tomorrow at 10:45 am in DH1112. Part ofthe 
Department of Chemical Engineering’s Fall 
1990 Seminar Program.
“What’s Next: Career Planning for 
Freshmen.” Begin exploring and confirming 
your tentative choices by making the most 
out of university resources such as the Career 
Resource Library, Alumni Networking Pro­
gram, and summer job/internship programs. 
This seminar will be held Wednesday at 4:30 
pm in Skibo 13. Sponsored by the Career 
Center. Call x2064 for more information.
The Ugliest Man on Campus (UM0C) 
results will be announced Saturday, Nov 
ber 3, in the Wherrett Room. Sponsored by A 
Phi O; proceeds go to the United Way. Foi 
more information on ugly men, call Hel| 
Yang at x7543.
Bus Trip to Washington, D.C. The annual
one-day bus trip to Washington, D.C., for ail 
and design freshmen is scheduled fcl 
Thursday, November 8. All participants wii 
leave from the Skibo parking lot at 6 am an: 
return at about 11:30 pm. The cost ofthe tri; 
is $20 and payments are to be made witl 
Chaz Palmer in the Design Department.
Help at critical times is available at thfl 
Counseling and Student Development Ce&l 
ter in Morewood Gardens E-Tower. For aifl 
appointment, call x2922. Emergency servi«| 
is available.
Send Calendar or Vox Populi submissions to: Thij 
Tartan, Attn. Calendar, Box 17, Carnegie Mellon 
U., Pittsburgh, PA 15213. Or send campus mail to 
Calendar Editor, The Tartan, Skibo Info Desk. You 
can also drop subs via AppleShare in the drop 
folders in the Tartan’s server, Skibo zone. Pleas: 
limit submissions to fifty words or less. Deadline!! 
5 pm the Thursday before the next issue. Space is 
limited and placement is not guaranteed.
R.,
She’s yours. Do what you will.
Jabba: “Go back to sleep, Tom.” R.W. (the M.E.) is a dork.
M.C. G.,
“This goes beyond sexual annoy­
ance.”
A.D. (while pointing at N.F.)
So ... if we have a lull in the 
conversation every 7.5 minutes and 
we do it for 42 days, then is it a 
habit?
a boy that sends me tulips at 
midnight
Caution: Pig Pen.
WHAT did you want to show me,
George?
Judy
Dingle,
How about spending less time 
writing Vox that pisses people off 
and instead working on your own 
page? What the hell do you think 
your job is here?
You’re a wonderful person. (Someone 
had to say it.)
E.
Nicole,
How do you go down?
Adam
How intimate is contact with a 
pole?
ALL GUYS SUCK!
100 buckets of bits on the bus ...
To the guys who said, “We want 
our fucking furniture back!!!” Next 
time, don’t throw, it out the 
window ...
J&W
And the warden said ... <wave> 
“Hi!”
There’s no such thing' as a free kick. 
It’s just a question of who pays. 
Great season, soccer boys. Keep it 
up!
Jacques,
23+14 days - and Lothar has still not 
walked with woman!
John, Jethro, Jabba, MEY, 
Joe, Jim, Jane, Judy, RTM, 
Jason, George, Joshua
Miserable Now,
You are not alone ...
Ralph,
We found the perfect girl for you ... 
she’s 21, real ugly, 250 lbs., likes oral 
sex, but most importantly after she’s 
done with you she likes to fuck the 
guy down the hall.
the guys
Craig ‘n’ Nick,
Please don’t degrade Ted Danson by 
putting him in CFA. He graduated 
from CIT.
Rusty and the Archer
Are you a democrat? You must be, 
because you’re an ass and only 
elephants remember ... you always 
forget.
Jason - thanks for flipping over me. 
Sean and Josh,
Found an Iraqi boy bleeding to death 
on the field, so I said, “Whether you 
be glad, sad, or bad, you’ve got to 
know that there’s fun to be had!”
And then I covered his gaping wounds 
with Morton’s iodized salt.
“Jay Leno”
Tits,
Why don’t you bring some friends 
over for a wicked game of CARDS?
DW
“Helm, all ahead flank!”
“All ahead flank, Helm, aye!” 
"Maneuvering answers all ahead flank, 
sir!”
“Very well, Helm.”
“Maneuvering, Conn, make turns for 
3 knots.”
“Make turns for 3 knots, Maneuver­
ing, aye.”
Fasten your seat belts, gentlemen ...
If you live oh Don’s bed, you can 
almost see Tom’s eraser.
Jason & Steve can eat shit and die.
To the thin, blond freshman who stole 
three bananas in Salads Plus two 
weeks ago,
My friends and I all saw you do it, and 
we’re going to report you.
David A.,
i don’t really think you’re in a 
position to tell anyone that their 
poetry is stupid.
Kiwi is the coprock poster winner. 
Coprock is on at ten after dinner. 
Scobell 1st floor is the place
Little Brother, 
Just do it.
Sis
Walter & Jeff,
Allllright, Allllright!
Can I have some Corn Pops?
Where’s that woman who wants to 
kill me?
Zoinks! Yipes!-
Ed
Buttercup,
Look. No sexually explicit remarks. 
No disgusting references to organs or 
bodily fluids. This can’t be me, can it? 
I’m capable of little else, aren’t I?
MAD DOG! MAD DOG!! Grrrr ... 
grrrr.
•I’ve told you before, and I’ll tell you 
again. I do not appreciate references in 
Vox Populi concerning vulgar 
atrocities you wish I would perform 
on you. Watch it, Admiral. (And 
don’t you ever “Ms.” me again, SIR!)
Hey Ed,
Call the police! Jeff’s a cradle robber!
Walt
B.W.,
In reference to two weeks ago, I’m 
finally giving you a response: YUP!!!
B. (Sorry I haven’t been on lately)
Sue,
Do you really know .if it’s better than 
cookies and candy?
The R: (after booting a 92 yd field 
goal) So how did it go the other day? 
La Rock: Man, all I did was look at 
the slot machine and the arm came 
down and I hit jackpot!!! Kinda’ 
smooth ...
Now I’m a mad man and down CPO, 
bound to go to hell since I was an 
embryo!
Ed,
I didn’t know that Adam’s room was 
a triple.
Walt
Bozo: Do you think that promising 
major likes me?
S.L. 8c P.Q.: Shut the fuck up, bitch. 
We don't care. And if you must know, 
NO! He’ll never sleep with you again!
Women’s Center: a f-ing ironic 
explicative. Jolly good show.
The Brit Wit
“Are you out of laundry tokens?”
Hey Gorgeous!
Happy (???) one month.
A little late of course.
I love you.
Clean
the cleanliest I’ve been 
‘cause somewhere 
there’s someone who cares 
with a heart of gold 
to have and to hold
To the VP and Secretary /Treasurer:
I would have to say it’s time to m#1 
and discuss the possibilities ol ne'v 
memberships. And new officersPresidiS
“I come here, I get beyond geeks. I 
fucked up, monster, parasitic 
assholes.”
overheard in the l°unl
by the DeputyHi#1
Hunting season is open
and I’m looking for some dinner
any suggestions/offers?
Love, me. CMU Men,
What is wrong with you? We hear 
you complain about the M/F rat*°- , 
And yet, every attractive, Person3,0i 
and intelligent female we know '’•n 
went to the Homecoming Clippe ¦
Savage Garden
I’ve got a new friend and he’s changed 
his skin for the last time
meet New Religion
asked their dates. Men, don’t com ^ 
plain. Ask a female out today.
hint?
, A, V, C, S, K,S,MAL'
I'l
