VOL. XXI NO. 31CARNEGIE INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY, PITTSBURGH, PA.' TUESDAY, MAY 3, 1927
STUDENT NIGHT 
FOR C.W. SHOW 
SATURDAY 14
Eleanore Lewis and Robert 
Pike to Have Leading Roles 
in the Mystery Play Cast
TICKETS WILL BE ON 
SALE TODAY- $1.00 UP
gam Jannej’s Latest Play, 
“The Devil's Den,” Diurna. 
Chosen This Tear.
Tbe Anal feature of Carnegie 
Tech's Eighth Annual Cr Week will take place on Sat 
evening. May 14, *
The Play.
For two months, tbe C&mpue Week Show committee, beaded by 
Walter B. Rogi
lasalng if possible 
tbe" brilliant "Loose Ankles," tbo humorous "CoUegiately Speaking,1 
and other famous . shows of th. 
past, well-remeinbereQ by 11 -»bo were so fortunate as to.see, them. A thoroughly-prepared mystery 
play of Greenwich Tillage night 
life Ailed with suspense and-.ex­citement and depicting tbe unnsuol In New York's famous Bohemia, 
has been, tbe result 
“The Devil’* Den" was written ' by Mr. Janney during the past win- „ter expressly 'for . the . PUTpose of submitting it-to oar show com-' 
.. mltlee lor consideration eg a Cam pun Week feature. He is the au thór ot the present stage success (‘Loose Ankles,” which was • the show of last year’s campoe frolic, and those who fiave seen the script declare “The ; Devil's. Den” enn Buperlor to lta Illustrious prede-: cesBor. Pilled with mystery and centered about a. well-grounded 
plot, the play 1a lightened by a 
touch, of rare comedy.,..,..,.
Thé Technical Staff. > Actual work on the play bas been progressing since'. the.Easter. 
vacatlon. Wr.Janneÿ Is spending: ~miich" er^hls Utae-innhe" city : te supervise the production,, which is ' under the' personal direction of' Mr- Theodore Vleman, assisted by Walt Rogers. The technical work of the play Is under the guidance ot Mr. John Harding. Both Mr. VIeman and Mr. Harding ere asso­ciated with the Department ot Drama as directors, and their work bas boon very successful and Is greatly appreciated. Lee Klitchell,.
-nés has béen . ùider his 
direction.Tbe student stage manager of the play is JToë Woods. Maxine- Finsterwold holds the^posltion of bookholder, and properties for the 
production will be- in. charge ' ot Ellen Mltchte. Elizabeth Schraed- er le the costumière, and the tech­nical staff Is completed with the name of Tom. Brown, tbe secretory.
The Caet.A • number of players who ap­peared In last year’s show, and those who have ployed In Drama Department successes this year, 
are cast In Jann'ey’s new play.: Eleanore Lewis, who played tbe leading female role of "Loose
?nkles,”like'¦ the
her activity In' the 
Department of Drama- .plays has established her reputation - on the campus as an actress. Playing op­posite Misa Lewie In the leading male part will be Robert Pike, who was also on last year's cast and has regularly played In the Little Theater 'this year. Pike has ap­peared tbla season in “The Passing ot the' Third Floor Back,” “Tho Green Cockatoo" and "The Black 
Flamingo.”Two very humorous and enter­
taining comedy parts in "The Devil's Den’f are .to be played by students who are. perhaps the most popular comedians "on ,lbe Carnegie campus. As comic stars of “Loose Ankles,” Don (Felix) 
McClure, and Bell Ford established themselves. :last year , as superb comedians and the . same pair ,-will . appear In tàe roles ot , gentlemen .crooks at the Nixon.’a.': week from Saturday night.- V V ; ' • 'The comparatively -large cost of "Th© Devil's Denv . also Includes ‘, the following players'. who ¿ave 
previously demonstrated their abil­ity to play in such a'production: Marlon Beeson,-' Irene Tedrow.Don Willson, Victor ;Esker,: Josephine Copas, Sydney ,Gllten, v Lloyd> Fós-; 
. ter, Carieton^ Young,; Marjory: Bar­tholomew, .Thomas-; Lewis,-, Judy, v Balther, Thomas Fishery Ida Wal- -. .dron and Garland ' Kerri - ‘ ^
^Tfae^lay'.wás cait by WaU Rod-
THe Business Staff ; The work: of .' business mana'ger • i®** .the. play"has. probably ' been 'equally as important.as that of 
.chairman, and Francis Kolb hu ably Oiled -the office. Assist- 
•J ..(Continued on Page Eight)
AUTHOR OF SHOW
SAM JANNEY
THREE CUPS TO BE 
AWARDED AT FAIR 
FOR BEST STUNTS
Cown Band, Merry-Go- 
Round, Dances, on Pro­
gram For Fair
Tbe judges of tbe Country Fair have announced that they will se­lect tbe winuers of the stunt cups on tho basis of originality, clever­
ness, general feature! and manner of presentation. Tbe Fair, which will be held on tbe Cut at Forbes nod Morewood on tbe Saturday ot Campus Week from 1 p. m. to 5 p. m„ due to the -efforts of the Coun­try Fair, Committee, will be a real Country Fair In every sense of tbe word; and the stunts in competi­tion for thè cups wlllvbe one of the best features of the Fair. In 
order that-.the’ best stunts be chosen more , easily, only one stunt at a time will be given with the Judges viewing-from an advanta­geous position. in- previous years, 
ssveial stunts were .given at one time with tbe lodges standing on the outskirts of the.'crowd.. The thtae- caps'- which will be-awarded to the best fraternity, girls’ dorm and men’s dorm stnnt will be on 
display. In the Hot library on the campus for one week before Cam-
/ There will be a big clown band 
to draw the crowds to hear the barbera’ silver-tongued description of -'¿h© 'fair’s freaks and the other features. The merry-go-round wl)l, play merrily to the gallop of . its horses ' and ' the' greased pig will slip, .through the .crowd, as only-.ai greased pig can. .' An old-time fid*' dter with resin and bow .will oc­cupy a prominent ' place, and thi:udents will <i tbe .bandances to tbe tune of “Pop Goes the Weasel” and “Turkey in the Straw.’1 The concession stands, without which'no Country Fair Is complete, wlil dot the Cut, selling pink lemonade, hot dogs and other refreshments. There will also be photographer to take pictures, developing them "while you waif’ an vendors and others, all nstratlng the Old Army game. Scotch dancerB will give the Hlgh- Fllng and sword dances -to ootlng of the bag pipes.
ndlmentertaining features of the Fair will be the Individual stunts. Caleb Hornbostle, who gave the death-
ilar, thrilling and hair rals exhibition of a mysterious nali than has ever been attempted c side ot India. Puri Anderson ^ perform in a stunt in whi rumored, boxl[Otherwill 1
C.W. PROGRAM 
OF EVENTS IS 
ANNOUNCED
Gala Period Will Open on 
Wed. Night and [Continue 
Throughout Week
A tentative program of e' r the 1927 Campus .Week has >en outlined by the General Cam. is Week Committee, under the rectlon of Donatd Dalton, chair-
3:00 P. M;—Tennis match, (No^ tre Dame). ,3:00. P. M. — Baseball (Fresh- 
men and Sophomores).9:00.to 11:46 P. M.—Coronation
11:45 P. M.-latloiFriday, May 13 9:30 A. M.—Girls’ sweepstakeB. 10:30 A. M.—Men’s) sweepstakes (heats).1:30 P. M.—Military Review.. 2:00 P..M,—Tennis meet (Beth, any).
3:30 P. M.—Girls’ tenni
ie' committee Is looking for­ward to a dignified, demonstration the Pittsburgh public sb an ad- •rtlsemont of Carnegie Tech.” So 
.ys a clipping .cut from the May ., 1921, feeae ot the.-Tartun,..In .lamenting on Campus Week. Our sprlog revel of-today may. fulfill.a illghtly different function, yet the
Like Topsy,’ It Just grewi Of'the' abryonlc stirrings of Campon Week we know little. It appeared suddenly in the Carnegie Campus SO, and has been steadily gain­ing In poularily since that time..
6:30 P. M.—Women's banquet8:15 P. M. — Campus Week show.9:00 P. M. to 1:00 A. M. — Mardi
' Saturday, May 1410:00 A. M.—Tennis (Alumnae).11:00 A. M. — Men’s Sweeo-
1:00 P. M.—Alumnae luncheon.I*: 30 P. M.—Country Fair.. 8:15 P. M.—Campus Week show.Thus. endelh the'Eighth Campos We^k!
>m 9 o’clock Wednesday eve­ning till 11 Saturday night,; an al­most continuous chain pf events will invite the attention of stu­dents, alumni and guests. Again, it should be noted that Campos Week is for Carnegie alone, and a til checlt ot all Identificationts^^lU-fetinade. ......t one week Temalns. The tra­ditional Spring Carnival is nearly nponusi-wltli''flying'-colora-,-and'-ia- bringing- with It 'the ' ab'ove listed most Varied repertoire of enter tainment
Bill Manby. Sam Simpson will demonstrate methods of execution in tbe past and present with cor- tbe faculty InI, ®ll>, n gulllo- ,and 0ul- TbeofacJts offered each-year by the Alph
Cood Music Assured 
For Migratory Night
Carnegie’s glorious three days ’ revelry and merry-making • will ien next Wednesday, night, with ie Inter-iraternity migratory mce setting the pace for thé tes- 
vlties of the week.According to the recently estab-. llshed custom, the dormitories will irtlclpate in this Imjwrtarit part t Campus ' freek évents. They 111 use the Union as their home ad will be host to the various aterultles there.- A good orches- a will be on hand to furnish uslc for those who visit the Union 
irlng the eventng.As was announced laBt week tbe sneral Planning Committee de-, ded that the decorations through- lt the campue: week activities would be modern, and this , motif be carried out in the'adorn- of tlie fraternity nouses ana Union. According to the cus- estabblished in the years pa.st fraternities will compete ror 
rs as the best decorated-house-
c . w.
ROBERT PIKEELEANOR LEWIS
Progress of C. W. Can Be Traced 
Through Events of Past Years
Large Murals Will 
Adorn Gym andUnion
Fountains. Pylons, Lanterns 
of Unusual Design to 
Comprise C.W. Motif ,
i important part of the stagelachlm 
The free distribuì
Rhoiönal ]
of‘s, which 
•was made last year was so suc­cessful from all view points that 3 companies have signified r Intentions of ‘ giving away pies of their products. Thus the. following companies will «'presented in the distribution amples; Rieck-McJunkin Dairy 
Co., American Tobacco Co., Llg- gett-Myers; -Tobacco Co.. Colgate Spear’s Furniture Co., Clark Bros. Candy Co., manufacturers of (Continued on Pago Seven.)
lonal i fraternity,i. sllv«Last year a great deal of Interest was shown iu the competition, and many attractive designs. were ex­hibited. The priie wafe won by Sigma Phi Epsilon 'fraternity. Tho outstanding characteristic of 'the decoration this year will be an im­pression. of. ^slze,.. „following .the trend of.modern;,'design! -pfapecialjntereettoeveryone.ls 
the' music which’the vanous frater- nitles will have. It is. ratlier-early " (ContinueS on! Page VSlx.)-'''
Rouie For Migratory Wed. Night
No- 1^—Delta Mu.No' ' 2^6eta Thett PI.No. 13^—Beta Sigma Rho.No, 4.—phi Sigma Kappa.
No- S.—Alpha Sigma Phi.No- "6-^DelU Opallon. 
fio. 7^-Theta XI.No- 8^—Sigma Phi Epsilon. <.- 
No. Sigma Nu.Np, 1Q. Sigma Alpha Epfllo^.,
11^-Delta Tau J 12^—Kappa Sigma.. : " 13^—Alpht Tau Omega.PhK‘Kappa;;- IB —Phi Kappa-Pal, ' 1S^PI Kappa Alpha. -
the-Genera] .PlaDDlpg . Commit­
tee. The list of ornaments and location will comprise the following: a taD tountaJti'ln. tlië frbnt ot Arts School; four-'Pylons the cut entrance,' eoBhrlnlng a
stàtu'e^nùinerouBi.: j;oluinna_v.,urns to be placied before Arts. 
Schorti; large lanterns for the deo- oration of the Gym; several large îural- polntlngs In the [modern' théine tor the Gymnasium'and the i. The ' completion ot ; these 
decorations Is expected : several days before Campus Week. througb the enei^yvof tbe V Construction 
Cominltiee, beaded by A. M. John-
- The General Planning Commit- 
;e Is- composed of the following lembers:-: * George McKinney, chsirman; Lee Twohlg, Scott OL.XI >m Cannon, Bob' Batch, Herman inter, Clayton Walker, Bud Park- ijbs, Taylor Shlels, Henry But*, Mike Bocchla, and Janet De Coux.
The . Construction-.. Committee, beaded by. A. M. Johnson, chair- nan; includes H. Knappenbergor, ). A. Lynch, C. H. Turner, Julius, ohnson, Clyde F. McKee, J. Aus- raw, Cbaiincey Yoke. R. C. Bro- :hlus. and Harvey. White.The lanterns for'the gymnasium je to be four feet long,and of very unusual design: - These, lanterns being designed; and built under supervision 'of Scott Rds's;.ivith 
Miles Bocchia and Bud Parkins-as- g. The wide field-left open by the choice .of the Modern Period as the dominating decoràtlvë'ihotlf ot Campus Week, allows ' a, free range of Imagination .in the con­struction of such ornaments, and the results. show unusual, applica­tion of ingenuity.Lee Twohig, who Is In charge of the. murals, - announces . that . work has started on the. designs fur­nished hy Tom Canoon an«t Her­man Ganter. These-murals are to be of Immense size, approximating 
16 - feet" in ; width by 19 fèet'Jn height .There wiU be two of these painted, - one - tor .the decoration > of the. Gymnasiu'ih and. one ,for..the Unioni The'désigné' show murals wlU _, .followIn. effect ..the paintings Common to I^liustrav tlon^ a. Parisianmagazine, of mod­ern Art ' The4choIce -‘of- ;colors promlees some startling and iirii- llànt results. .¦ ¿Continued :<jn Page Eight.),
'. In previous years; :1t:1-bass- been the cuet’6& ôf ;Üië alumnl, organ^ MtlônB'oï/thèfour.'c^ vite^üié/memberB’,.-ot’^¦tte'^gtóíuat: ing ’class to; attend ftheV Annual Aiumnl Lúnchecin,^ held. ¿n the Sat; urdaÿ.ot Campus »week. -V.;:.-. • V 
'/This year the Individual/alumni organizatlóna - have very .klndly^ of- fered to ipay.-a part :òf the'expèòse of the. senior luncheons sndjLlckets .will be sold .to the. graduating class at il.op^eacb; Just half the], pricejof •the luncheon to alùmiìt. -; i:. ‘v Ouri luncheon this., year. will, be held at the Hotel • Sc^eñley, .on-.Sat- arday. May 14:,at. 12:30‘p.-mr'- It will ibe.: short;'and snappy,i’.aiàV we are anxious to have this, évent over Wore, the < i’Coah ty. ,!.páir < begins. Tickets may .be obtainodsafter May 2 at - the - Alumni office. 206 G^m- naslum building.
each spring ’’to look ovet" and to, revive in jl920 the (Student
look, the old school ive old memories, body decided ihrow the school, open for In­spection and plan a three days’ celebration . .calculated . to .make, every grad regret that ho had ever.PBsped..a. .final.,. ..............
• -^uallilcations and tap day exor­cises opened tho First ' Campus Week events on Thursday morn­
ing: ..That evening .a . play wag given, "A Man Can Only. Do His Best.” On Friday tbe sweepstakeB took place, the TaTtan files mys­teriously montlon a'greased pig in connection with this, ,^hoBe Imme­diate funcUoa'ts not divulged. We remember having seen at, last year’s Mardi Gras a few well olted . . . But thdt doeen!t-matter. 3oit- 
.Drdsy brbught-the circus, with Its side shows, displaying, such curloB- itiefe as.the ."man 'who. smoked too much” and.giasS' OSters.,: The event' iiay .vms ^ob. Dako, the cam- pus];aylator, :-wl\o 'did breath takingaiid- sjrtralls^ia hls plane Uie.Sbhenley Oval.
It ia to a Magale MÍirph that the
IMjardi Gra4 o§ Friday 
To be RTot'Tsf Color
Probably tbe most colorful and ^spectacular - evuai-. of the ^ entire 
.^h^CampUB.aieeVi.preeram.wlll be the annual Mardi Gras on Frl- day^eventns, .with dancing In both -tile^iilCh and 'the'' Oyni. ' 
y James Tierney, chairman In charge of the funcUen, has an­nounced that everything .possible has been done to Insure the flneBt of .entertainment for -the evening,- Two veiy well known and exceedr Iogly popular orchestras have beeii engaged to .play both'for. the Cor- onatlon Ball, on Thursday night and the Mardi Gras' on Friday. Recognized as one of tiie leading orchestras of the Plttsaurgh dis­trict,'the selection of the Collegi­ate Imps to play in the big gym- naslnm will meet with the general approval of the entire student 
body. This orchestra consists of llKyery'. versatile players and ' a number of novelty stuhts. are be Ing worked out' by them especial, ly for introduction at the Mardi Gras. Tho Virginia Ramblers, -a popular band. from ClorksbuTg, W. Va;,. that has played .quite .frequent­ly In Piitsbursb, has -been engaged to play iii the Unron!., . it wlli be remembered that the Imps recently (Continued on'Page Sevon.) ;
CORONATION SETTING 
TO BE STEPS OF GYM
Thursday evening of Campus Week will see the Coronation -of the Campus Queen. Fifteen, min­utes before midnight as. the cus­tom is, the Coronation Dance will end arid at 12 one of Carnegie's loveliest ceremonies will be per­formed. .............. : v '
Instead of using the Sylvan The­ater this year the steps to the main entrance of the gymnasium will be-employed as a setting- for the pageant - The throne Is to be ;hiiiit Immediately; jn. front'of the flag 'pole^on the . middle landing. Tjie- period choBen is anclent' A&' Jthe dramatization of ; which, lilei opportunity for af .display
the'most beautiful coronations that 
(^rneglohaaknowii.
.The Indian .legend which has 
been; woven about Oie crowning of. the iQiieen )s'|:qiiite'fascinating and colorful.'; An .ancient, Astec tribe, noted; for ita .^BLutiful .women.-hfts been. promìsed.a'-ÌqvelyqyéenvWhò. wUl. deliver.; the- people itrómVthèlr 
^anlsh^oppreMÓ^iThe^fated^^day hàs. àrTlvéd anà. their goiì has.not fulfllled.hl8promÌsé>.;,’The:frantlc sea'fch-for'a'princess.begtne.end-. log tìnaliy ln à, di-amatlcydlsctosure of thè : Queen . sent;,:‘by ¦ ;thé .- tribài godi;y/'."'V
• Lee . Mitchéll -'hàà ' written ' this' pageant aid wUrùdirect lt unless WOiÌ p’n' the Càmpiis :Week Show séta ' mak'es -. ithls : rimposBible,'/ In whl^h -case • Eton, WÌleòn will take over.’ .thè. . direction.- •: Vérnér .Pur-' 
nèlllàdesijgnlngall'lhéycostumes; somé-of which promiee tó be. quite .elatióràte, While Charlótle' Wardàlé 
Ifl-'handlingi'theiactual.niaklnB.of the coBtumes. -, Jean Springer. Is géneral 'chalrmsn of the Coroni tlon.' - ' , >• ’
> TICKETS PpR C. W. ?r . SHOW NOW ON SALE ?^ AT BOOTH ON CUT
> Tickets ior the Campus *> Week show are on sale at ?• the booth on tbe cut today! *> 
•-The prices for tbo tickets aret in proportion to tbe deslrabll- <• 1* lty ot the seats and are as *»* ;? follows: ?> Sntlre first floor........ ..il.76 ?!• First flvo rows in balocny 1.75> Remainder ot 1st balcony 1.50:• Second balcony ............1.09 •>• Boxes ..........-•................2.00 *
VODVIL SHOW IS 
TO BE PRESENTED 
IN REVIEW FORM
Many Good Acts This Year; 
"Collegiate Imps” to Play 
For Show
In two more weoke tho host vaudeville show In Campus Week history will, be staged at Carnegie Music Hnlt. This Is an exceptional show in that It has been practlcnl- ly written by ono man, Pete Kygg. Pete has written ttiesonge, the lines 6nd hSG put forth a great amount of effort in order to make the Bhow a great success. He has attempted to. make this year’s show an Innovation in the history of campus week vaudeville shows in that the show, wlll.be presented In review form as a unified wbolo. In nil previous shows the acts have bnen presented without a'thought .of unification—each act being In­dividual, relating not at all to the companion performances. It Is Mr. Rygg’s desire to croate a very smooth running show thatrwlll de­
mand every, one’s attention all or the.time. ¦
1 special attraction, 'tbnt' 
of having the “Collegiate ; impe," 'popular .dance orchestra, play for the show and the acts. A|1 muslo 
writtemfor the show;ls the result of . the labors .. of Wally Poyntz, Pete. Rygg, George,. Sickles, Harry 
Cohen .and ’Josephine McGrall. All eongs iisve h.eon completed and accbrdlijg to.-Mr. Rygg they are 
progressing.'exceedingly well, es- ^peclftliy In tho ’clionig woyk.
‘ Thei- chorus' Is under the direc­tion of-Vtotor Eaker—the'ywj'able tralner-ot three Arts Ml uses and last yearis >audevUle chorue. Es|ter. turned out^on.Arifl
previously done and; he ] 
that the vaudeville chorus .will ei ceed even hie past .successes, 
v The very clever costumes tha will-be presented in tho showhav been! designed by Agnes BUtakei
HM1LY FULTON ELECTED TO 
REIGN OVER EIGHTH ANNUAL 
CAMPUS WEEK ACTIVITIES
CAMPUS QUEEN
KWn.Y FULTON
CHANGE RULES FOR 
C.W. SVÎEÊPSTÂKÉS
Scabbard and Blade Do­
nates Cup For Best De­
signed Pushmobile
I Of I
show Is to be: presented by Ruth \ston and Garriti Krober. Krober 
. doing, besides tbe' vaudeville trologue, an entertaining, sketch or the show.
Miss. Aston le favorably known or her work In Art School plays.
“Mandy Lee,” a very novel song by Pete Rygg, .wlli bo pre-
Kitty-Séybold and Theta Tau hon-
, A burlesque of an . Economics class ie to be put on by "The Var­sity Boys,’.’
dancer; after the football ........presented.- 
Pete Rygg will personally sing wie of the songs' he . has : written. The selection Is entitled, “I Pre­fer the Red Headed Co-Ed.” Pete will accompany the song with one 
>f his delightful- little dances. ‘ Miss Ruth Perrott Is doing sev­eral eongs that will prove highly ¿ntertalnlng.i
• .The '.' •‘Filthy ' Quartette," tom- 
(Continued on Page Elisht.) '
At a mooting last woek, Scab- _jrd and'Blade,' natlon'ul military honorary fraternity,V. deofded trf present a cup .to the best-designed entered In tbo InterfraterDlly SweepstakeB. The cup wlll be a permanent gift each year,:and will be awarded to the car' eelected by the Design Judges. ProfeBSor Ashe, 
Leeds, and Dlbble. oe belng boal from the standpoints of beauty ahd mechanical practlcollty. ;
The cup. a triumph of. iho: silver-' alth’s art, was purchaaed by a committee beaded by-H. Knnppen- berger, well-known bulldipg . con* traction senior. It is. now'being; suitably engraved ' and ../will be irded at the ‘Campus Week Show on Saturday evening of Cam­pus Week. .
Plans for the races hiive been perfected by the'Sweepstakes com­
mitted ably headed by FredWoods, chairman. The rules'have- been.* ^completely ... revised,], .and copies-have. bee;n scnl to all frater-^
Among the rules are several Im­portant changes, these bolng: Tliat all entrlos must be registered with . Fred Woods at 4742 Center avenue, before Tuesday, May 10, at (Continued on Page Seven.)
Emily Fulton hSB been chosen Queen of Carnogle’s Eighth Annual Campos Week. . She was olectod to that enviable position on thé flnal ballot cast Inst Wednesday, April 27. ; ; -,
A groat deal of curiosity and uspaiiso 86 to tho student body’s iltlmate choice tor Queeo has pre- nlled on the. campus, for almost jonth, during which the elimina­tions were being carried on. The (Inst vote ,on March, 30 resultad In the candldncy of 15 of oiir.tatrest and most popular Sonior girÎB. At the second >ellm1nation on April 6, candidates wnro ' narrowed------to threo:’ Bmlly Fulton, IdaWaldron, and Dessa Laelck, The nal nnrt most thrilling eloction 
»w Emily Fulton selected to reign i^er Carnegie’s spring festivities. 
.The Queen-elect lava secretarial student in Margaret M6r?'son -and ooe of. the most prominent girls In activities that the sohool has 
known. -She. was president of her class. In her Sophomore year sec­
retary of the Margaret MorrisiSenate OS Junior1 nnil la ______Senate os Júnior,' and Is now presi­dent'of the Senato; which entitles 
-™-ti*»'*** on tho Student Coun- cll. She was also the M; M. nom- 
^fl-??I;.?.tod®i“tjCounoJl ProBldént last year.-. -Of thij othsf-honors -shehas received, membe^hli Io th»
Plebes to Drop Alt 
Regulations May 12
Thursday. May 12,, will be Qual­ifications Day, the day 'which, to riebes, Is the best of all Campue Week. The famUiar Old.Man Plebe Regulations will be carefully - laid to rest after a hard.year-of suliiy. compliance, and rebellion.
,The Plebes will then be admitted to the Carnegie Clan-and will be fully .recognized as capable ol car- rylng. out those .duties Which mak^ of them''- “Carnegie Men ana Women/'
The Freshman Class will assem­ble in front of the Union at 1:80.' The girls must be' dressed in white, either white middles ¿iid-skirts; or white dresses. The groups In marching, will.-be.headed' by the class officers,-.
The pr.occsBlori will proceed di­rectly to the howl and will halt at tbe grandstand' aftor circling the field once. The program win begin promptly at 2 with the lay- lug to rest of Old Man Regulation. The Freshmen will .tpen be wel­comed Into the Clan of Carnegie.The remainder of the program will be devoted to calls'by numer­ous honorary fraternities. Mortar Board is a national. Senior Honor­ary Society .for women. Glrla are 
choscn from; the incoming Sonior Class, on the basis of service,
Queen Chosen From Three ' 
Candidates on Final Ballot 
Last Wednesday
CORONATION TO BE 
HELD THU. EVENING
Girls EQeoted 0& 
First Ballot To Attend 
Queen At Crowníag.
S ^ ^ nationalSenior Honorary, stAnds out «onspicuoösly. She >> residentof .WllkJnfiburg:
. The Quoen’e two prlnolpol' ot-S;|flarWVr^n a^d Pe6^Lnzlck, are. Seniors from. the^Col-' 
iir' " “ •<*' the..MuBlCrDoportment- aid a member 
D»™ bt* P"1 sorority, nhilo ¡¡•Mm »»» Bn* In Pltti. .burgh, ls a. P.. & .D<.Btudeiit-<and a member of Beto PI soroJrS'Botb 
know11 welhikefi
ttam iK*“' Weh p"*cs> N31I .1 recsotlelocBon.
th. «r.r^,iUlrfr.?SÌÌ“<Ì?
p“ro“y B»)-1«. dreon,: o.'.
Houaeholil Bcooomlce; Dorothy
Cohen,. -Pittsburgh, Dratno; Huth 
Sp, Wllhlnsbiirg; Household Bconomlce; Kathnrlne Hàrrlnctori. 
Baayer, Sculpture; Florence Hart­man, noMevllIe, Pi, Costumo Epouon,|cs; Sara-Ellzabeth Hayes. 
JSSf*1?- *“¦. EnellaB Minor: Plttsbureh, Social ? J,irr‘ey R,cbinonr!. pitta.burgh,; P & D.; HeIetfRlddle.El.on 
?" H(,11Mh“W Economic«; Evelyn Roese, Wonessen - Pa. sec 
'(urial Rl,0y» York, ^Bomnton;
Sirle whowith the tw
tlon
»gethiei ___ v,
•é candidates lot; will aerve as attend- the .Queen at the Corona ¡rcmony durlnpr.. Campus
Tickets Can Be Obtained For
Parents-Faculty-Night At Nixon
Although ' Carnegie’s. ; Campus j 
Week show Is produced ;,by . stu- 
d^nts, it is .byNnd. means an; am­ateur jjroductlon.^ Few on.the^rcK fesslonal Btage have .the^UchniGal training or .the abillty of. ttose'-ltt Carnegie’s Drama; departmenti V.
' ' Thlsyear.’s. show, lias been natned and cast and.: will be presented at the NlionvTheater the .evening of
mlttlng. us :.ip; give' the flret shóviíf ing. of. '‘The ^vit’s' Deh'.’vá .m tèry comedy^:of . Qrçénwiçh- vVU- 
iRge; -, depictlng 'the próyèrbial vBo1- hemia of, -,New. Yórk.',.-, Janneÿ /Is the -aijthpr 'ot “Locàe Ankioe,” -a .succeBafulBroadway-.prodiictioni which had its ,world’s 'premiere .at Campus', ¦^Week'i'ast'.ryear.'iäöd.'also the “Black ;Flamingól,,.íong -6f.. ¿e bfBt; shows .at the itlttlëv.TÙeatérbe^t; showE
Is a special performance for the faculty and generol public. Much interest has always been shown by. the] people .of Pittsburgh In. 'the school (and in iaetllng, . aBlde ’ this evening for itsr i)atrohs ' Carnegie is showing its gratitude: ,
The first floori and -first five rows of-the balcony are il.75,‘ the otlier balcony seats $r50,' and tbe .sec­ond balcony' seats are: $1.00.- -. Boi .seats are 12.00.^ Tickets, may 'be obtained by sending; a; check'with a' self-addressed,' stamped envelope 
,to ¿Charles Dickinson^ Theti v-XI Fraternity, 5017 - Forbes 'street. Tickets can' a'la.o. be:f6tien' at: tha bo* office of. the Nizon;; Theater the week of May 9, -or on' the'cairi-
I*aul Albrnndt will :speak. at Assemblies' iu the high schools of .the city aiid It. is hoped ‘thatvtbe ‘ students, will take advantage of 
thlr opportunity to get'their tlck- ets^Tor -the- Carnegie Campus Week
Weefc
'» Carnegie', eighth Cempua Week, Emily Pul­ton Is but the aftth, Campus Queen 
Josenhlne Whitney, : a Meriaret .Mprrlson Secretarial girl, was . the first Queen In 1022. -fihe’was sue. ceeded, In 1923, by Peg Harmon, . 
a Drama student from the College ofyFine: Arts. Josephine Gibson, from the Household Economics dc- 
1CAR WlicIicWd to the honor 5j-®?eeri' ««retarlai; In 
ELNGSTA iW «otherHousehold Economics student reigned last yeaf. The custom ha^ .:
i“1"1 lnto « eatabllahed tradition here. With each recur 
Q°m,,s "!• luestlon or' ^hich Senior girl shall'be singled 
schoo,'s most brilliant or. The choice is commonly
purely from the standpoint or beauty, but althqugb ibtauty, un- doubtedly still plays a prominent part;, general popularity has come: to occupy, almost-as conspicuous a Place ,i?/ the. selection, ; .
R.0.T.C.T0 HOLD REVIEW 
IN HONOR 0T DR. BAKER
As. a .part of Camjius Week tho 
It. O. T. C: ,battalion'of the Car hegieipi8tltute:of,Techno!]ogy.wlll hold its annual’ President’s Review in hondr^of 'Dr.' Baker,:: at-a time. ‘ 
be_ ennouncedVlaterl This: re-.- . vlew,^^..Which-ie^^-a;-fliiuVe on the Campus Week' prpgrainj,' will take- 
pU^ on'.tbe Cgit;.-where-the .bat- tallonv .composed oi: three engineer- .iiigr;companies,[aid ^tho Signal 
Qorps,'Swill form/.ln lines of. close--; columns. The- Klitie: Band Wlli be - 
on the: extreme;.Mght ;.. Here -. they- . .wlU ;beCInspected by. Dr.<Baker, es­corted by^Major Taylor, head of •-
tteVMIlitary ^Departments.at: Car-• nefiei.Tech>i: - “.;. ' )- ;
After' thia- inspection,' the bat-; ' tallon, led by the Kiltie Band will 
pass - in '- review in ^columns : ot: •:, : . (Continued •• on Page ¦ .Sl*.)i.'-

---------------------------------------------------

s o po so»«^>»»->»fr>»c^x<"X-x-:-•x-»^>i><<%X“>-w^-Xn:^>fr^:-»»»x>»:">>-xrx->-x-<"^x-^:-<~:-:><'-:">*~X"XK-x^x-<K^xs>-XT^>’Xr’X>«^x*XHX^H>-fr>:^x-XK“X~>x»-:->
V-' /:- ': . ' . .¦ ¦•¦ ¦ '... ¦-.-... ¦•¦' ,. ' . ; ¦:¦' : ,'" ¦¦ '¦ J r '" ¦
C.W\ CHAIRMAN

---------------------------------------------------

A.C.A.C.W. HELD 
CONVENTION 
AT CORNELL
Adopt; New : Platform For 
,Spoits Which' Incl.udes 
Eight Objectives in All
WILL HOLD NEXT 
MEET'AT U OF MICH.
¡cuss Days nd:Afeaos 
Of Improving Girls 
Place io Sports
The Athletic Council of Am« 
.can College Women held Its., tlooal meeting at'Cornell on April 
21, 22 and 23. . The -Ideal set up .at the conference was: Sports lor Sport’s Sake, end Play for Ploy's ftajin. The Council» finding' reso­
lutions loo.'.blnding, decidednot to adopt any. The Association-con­tains too .many schools of various ¡types and• widely^ separated to adopt any binding set of laws.The following platform was ap­
proved and adopted:1. - To emphasize mass partici­
pation through international or in­ter-class programs, by the adop­
tion of sports day for. everything and by ' emphasizing co-operation 
among Individuals rather than
Z. To prompt the adoption < hoalth concept.
3. To simplify' the .system
To
5. To require .standards of eli giblllty, such as* medical, physical and scholastic standing. :
6. To offer assistance In the pro­motion of the principles- oi high schools.
7. To co-operate with our Physi­cal Education Department in- the furtherance of A. C. A. C. W. aims.8. To co-operate with the N: A. A. P. in the' furtherance' of our national interests.
It Is not Individual' accomplish-that /:sports, hutat imake for • succ ut 'rather mass co-BSfUl
tlon. One of the slogans adopted at the conference was, "One for all and'all for fun."
Many suggestions were offered 
and discussed for creating Interest i In the association and lu sports, I Many ideas and suggestions were promoted. A charting system d' in colors to denote activities ^ considered. Student Handbooks 
were also talked of as beiug help- ' Wl to the students.. Pep talks, pic­nics, rallies and camp - fires wouldalso help to add zest' --------------. cfation and ItB work. The faculty 
could also ^ promote Interest taking part. In all star fac 
games. Many schools would find a “C’ club based on athletli Hies, Interest, ’sportsmanship and scholastic, ability a groat help In 
promoting school spirit It was 
thought- especially, beneficial have radio talkaifor high school girls. . \
The question .of varsity athletli for girls la ooé tliât has receive 
of attention, i following objections to »varsity athletics: Highnervous-atlmulus and strain, .little ^social value, lack of. the 
amusement aspect found, in home 
‘ ' ' prevents girls
PLATS IMPOBTANT HOLETYPOTHETAE
' ‘VSCHOOL TO BE
BROUGHT HERE
•. To Establish Professorships 
in Printing and Training 
of Instructors,
¦ 'ÆÊ
Typothetae of America, which was bold recently in Pittsburgh, the 
Typothetae decided to move theirprinting school, .which Is now lo­cated at Indianapolis!. A formal
Student Council and Recently 
Ousted Puppet Head File Open 
Letters Apropos/Disagreement
M, M. PROGRAM 
FOR CAMPUS WEEK 
LARGE AND VARIED
Banquet, Sweepstakes, 
f Stunts, Athletic Contests 
Are on Schedule
that their combined with the printing dé ment of .Carnegie Tech was &
This oiler was ratified by the venllon and then presented tc Baker. Dr. Baker,- alter taking upthe offei
'olloy ball, 
contests have been arranged.Qualifications la the first < on the program and will take _ 
at 2 o’dockThursday afternoon. The. freshmen -girls of Margaret Morrison and Arts, robod in white und carrying the Dowers ad to them by the Sophomt wlU join the general Plebe parade to the Bowl, where Old Man Plebe 
Regulations will be buried wltixap- •oprlate ceremonies.The sweepstakes ai item on the program. T1 been practicing dally.
Ute
allerifor:al weeks,who compete _______
houldNhe capable, of providing zcitlng time. The' committee harge is planning to have no ¦ostumeB for the competitors. The prize will be given to the ( 
it wearing the cleverest c id a cup to the winning sei 
At 2 o’clock in, the aft ic. Margaret Morrison . Plebes oot the Sophs in' a volley ball game. This heated game will beDllOWby
Tech.
varsity. ¡
30. The .weather has prevented extensive practice, but a few supny days will enable them to get .Into. form.
The women’s banquet will be held Friday night in the Carnegie
luite 6
The
hoped that a large number of- ui dergraduates will attend! .Dea Green wlil be the principal speaker .nd will. welcome the alu 
Morrison Stri '111 play and some of the girls 111 provide a stunt Tickets a sale now for $1.25 apiece.
mber of stunts will be given ntryFalr by.groupsffon is dormitories and tbi i. A cup. will be given 
>up presenting the best
trustees school, accepted the offer. .
The advantages of this transfei will be many. The Typothetae will make a 1225,000 endowment to the school for the purpose creating two chairs; one a profes­sorship in printing, and the othei 
itorship in craftsmanship .A college trained wiu UF secured "Tor. the poi 
professor, and he ' will supervise the whole department, although the head instructor wJll have charge of the Bhop. The endow­ment fund^wlll be mads in 10 on- ' installments.
training.
a that this en-There 1. SSSHHHHHH
dowment fund will be used in the Carnegie Endowment Fund. If It Is applied to the Carnegie Fund It wlil mean that one-twentieth of the-fund baa already been-raissd.The Printing Department will now offer training In bhop subjects limited number of students 
by the
to'Wiich will 
Typothetae. These classes will be 
iporatefn
'o the Members of the Stydent Council: ^ > • ’ ' f
Acting In a personal : capacity, .1 
wish to state. Wat I ifeei the action of the Student’ Council in their meeting of April nineteen which 
ousted me from my position Of Edi­tor-In-Chief of Puppet'waa a gross 
Injustice. I;am forced to; consider! it' so. because I have received u reasons for thlo action. ; /¦
During my term of-office .a EdltoMn-Chlef the'' Puppet ' ho gron-s and improved.-'.This dtat< 
ment can be borne by"the recogp tfon given Puppet by such nation­ally known and accepted 'critics as Life. Judge and College Humor. Puppet has this j-earbesn rated as
Judge have cohsletèntlÿ printed large amounts’of materialfrom Its pages..........
ny new departments and tea- haye been Incorporated into Puppet including book reviews, an 
page of exchanges, “By the Way," and-others. The- boolf review department ts one »liege reviews that i 
its books gratis, and ber of commendations have been celved from publishers.
Circulation has consistently been alrger than In previous years; both the campus anÿ la newatandi
ntirely dtftront
present degree course which is offered ; by the departmeni 
probable number of .Typotho studcnts'wlll be 30 as that hai i the average number of sta 
. In the Indianapolis school entire Equipment now at In- ipoils will bo offered f negle and the instructors bei choose as much as they
The men'll ferrJng will j
ficlent numbt________uoi
there will, be absoIuLely'ni
cldSB interfering with the 
another. The Typothetae will be entirely separated from the others, as they offer tr log only Y, shop subjects. «’ 
department will gave t( enlarged to take care of the mulpment.
f Uie t
ichlneE
t the Coi
LARGE CROWDS SEE 
CARNEGIE EXHIBITION
The - annual exhibition of negle Institute, of Technology that »as held last Friday on April 22 was much larger and better 
tended than wfts last years’ “open1 house." Exhibition nJght has be­come a yearly affálr at Carnegie and as a resultóla always well at- tended.
Over 8,000 visitors were counted as they entered tho Spanish bung­alow, which- had been built in-the Masonry Shop of the College of 
Industries by day and night stu­dents of the building construction courses:, it 4s estimated that prob­
ably 2j000 other''visitors!'Viewed the bungalow from-the; exterior, but did: not walk through... . . .|
The recítala; and plays, 'given In I “« Otflegé; of finé' Arts wera Played 'before, .capacity' audiences , throughout the V evening.'
Nearly every ; department In the Institute was open for public In­
spection in ordor> .to. give visitors .an opportunity, to see the students at work in the Various shops, lab-’ oratories and .class rooms. Thou­sands <»f visitors exhibited an; un­
usual interest -.In {the department mining ¡ engineering ., in the ^ence bulldiria.,>Thl6. exhibiteluded a real miñé tunnel th afc ex- . tended .under ,tlie - campus
ales committee, that Campui Week tags will be placed on aali :cordlng .to the followingschedule:Engineering — Thursday,1:30.
Margaret Morrison ~ Friday, 11:30-1:30.Acts. School—Monday, 11:30^1:30. Night School—Central Building, Monday, 7:30-8:30. Industrles-r-Tuesdayi 11:30-1:30. General Sales—Central Build­ing,-Wednesday, 1:30-4:30,. sThe price of the tagi:li student can purchase only
his guest The student must present a registration card for the.second semi time of the purchase.In order to eliminate the usual rush students must purchase ¿heir tags in the-school in which they aré' registered. Programs set of rules governing the Campus Week tags will be given ich. student at the time of pur-
M.„
To Hold Course For 
Electric Metermen
With the co-operation of the Du- quesne Light Company, the West Penn Power Company, the Ohio Power Company and the Penn Pub­lic Service Corporation, the third annuel short course-for electric metermen will be given at the Car­negie Institute from May 9 (o' May 14.Theof theImpress the motermao with the Importance of accurate metering, to give him a better understanding 
of the technical requirements of electric; metering, to teach him the theory of operation, - methods of testing, connecting and maioten-, ance of electric meters and to.ac­quaint him With the latei of meters and - metering d 
Co-operating with F. C. Ashe, head of the electrical equipment
. types
sales. The size of Puppet has ncrea6ed and the make-up and lay- >ut of printing have decidedly im- iroved. ¦ ¦
In the taco of these laots, I feel .hat my removal from the editors 
tliair was a hasty and drastic ac- ion. I consider It so Inasmuch as to opporlunty was given me to :hange the policy of Puppet In or? der to rectify features that might 
be considered'Objectionable. , It la to be remembered that no-lssud .of Pupppet- had appeared from. tlie time of my first and only meeting^ with the. Student Council ond the 
subsequent notification of my reri movitl from office. I consider lp| only fair that reasons .for this u 
precedented- actlon be-given me.After investigation I learned the there was.no court of appeal fr6i decision of the Sludoot Com
:lty, evidenced by the following: A 
letter addressed to Mr. Edward Mc­Donald, \ President of the Night 
Student .Council, under the date of March 2,. 1027, was written on the official 'stationery- of the Poppet jwrtalniDir to the official «osineas of, the Puppet .and signed by the Busi­ness Manager.
The above summary, indicates a general attitude incompatible with 
ihe position Edltor-ia-Chlef of Puppet, one or our prominent publi­cations, and one which gives .wid^ spread publicity to.eur insUtiitlon.
To the. Members or the Sludont , Connell: ...
. •Since my.letter of April 22 asb-1 Thg yoM for reasons for my dismiss-, 
al as: Editor-In-Chief of PMppet, I have received tboee reasons. It to, unfortunate that those reasons1 were not conUlned In the letter In- lormrng of my dismissal as It I 
might..have ¦ eliminated misunder­standing end numerous esplaoa-1 tions on both sides;,
-In. your letter of April 3» : ave me as reasons, claims t
ELEVEN MEN 
CHOSEN AT 
; SCREEN TEST
Over Hundred Men .Try 
For Screen Tests at 
Carnegie
PLAYS IMPORTANT , V BOLE
PBS
only to
Studeni
judge«
; this unfair, me, but io any others.who’ pe differencas wj...I question t^ie -right of Council to act as.suprei »pectfully submit‘ as -Itlciec^ .the fprm:¦uctlve
i body, to this, body; to .be chosen e administration and facql- tggest such a body as addition to pur camjiuei stem to function s‘P one’|»arty. or thé
. April 30, 3027/ îar Mr. Bulllnger: 1 , :
Àfter. eKtended conalderatlo'n. tb Student Coúnclt In. Itq meeting of 
took the 'following) been in-
April 19, 
ictloa, of which formed:..
“Motion! carried that the Editor- In-Chief rof the Puppet be remov from office, and that the new Edlti Jn-Ghief and staff- be on probation 
rest of the present schoi id that if the revised staff ctlons are not.'satlsfi tho stAff shall be disbanded."
It is the opinion- of the Connell tat you-are farallldr wlth
dismissal; However,that tiubt t
• M»roughont the,.collegi 'were all’ Jell attended.. Thts-year’s ."peek behind the scenes/' held for those 
' Pepple Interested In Carnegie ln- ¦atute 'sod lti ; work,' coapletely fulfilled all, demands.¦.
Margaret Morrison Senate will give, their annual party on ’Wed- nesday at 4:30 o’clock InrM./M. Recreation HaU. This Is the one event, where all-M. M. C. C. s'tu- dents and the faculty áre together. Stunts - by the various ' classes promise: to be . entertalnlAg, and the Faculty stunt is en < .'V 
looked forward to during the whole year. •' Anne E. Lessor, *27,.is in.'charge^ of the affalr.' Refreshments- wlli 
be'served and an orcheatra'' has’ been hired. All Margaret Morrison; students - aré cordially Invited to 
attend-. '.
TheWhitehepid'-Chib,: eompoaad
instructlop
-anging the ptan of Orvllte Buyo, super­intendent of the meter and tests department, Duquesne Light Com- •pany; T. C: Pltzer,.meter engineer, ist- Penn' Power Company; • AS Stmalley, meter engineer, the |j5hio Power Company, and R. A. Markel, meter engineer, Penn-Pub- lic Service Corporation.-Ill , of the work 'In - the abort irse wlll be given In the dopart- nt^of electrical equipment and istructlon of Industries. Inatruc- a will be given by lectures, rec­itations, demonstrations and lab­
oratory testa..Special.locturer»-will include-.John' H. MIllfet; Jewel Elec- trlc . Instrument Company;. F. L. Pavey, Duncan Electric Company; L. £. Bmerlck, I«ads and North- rgp;-Instrument Coinpflby; 'J. ’ 3'N BlakeBlee, -States .Company; -Fred Holtz, Sangamo'Electric Company; H., A.; -Richardson,. General Elec­tric: Company- K ;p! Sz>arkea,aDtl
C./Q.Waite.WesUnghouse.Eiectric and Manufacturing Company * ‘11 F. Smailey, Ohio; Power Company, •W. R-. Work, Carnegie Institute bf .Technology, .and-^W. H. Dickinson, General Electric Company.- " 
Students, for.-the /special, courses :e expected .from ell.of the 'power' 
tpmpanies/in the district Electric employed • la. msiiufi
irt or. :ih the mtnds of itudents, we hereby state them briefly: 
r. Contrary to Article IV., gee- tion 4, of the Puppet'constitution; j»o. advertising, contracts of the 
Poppet have been filed'with the Student «Counfcll. The Edltor-in- Chlef has been repeatedly notified of this, failure to comply with the above provision, to wit: A letter dated Febniary lfe, 1927,. addressed to tlie Editor, conveying euch noti- 
ficallon. He‘also has been notified verbally several times of this fail-- and has in each inetatice faUed
April 5'. At that lime .you took.action-1n my.'caoo-other than to- appoint a. committee to neet with the Puppet Btoff ilder thf advisability of staden^ .en6ors.hIp.wlth tho object ot .pre­venting political friction. Tbls leema to bring , to light the true íature of our disagreements. - 
3 jrtll again at this tlmé disenfi' four -reasons which are simply < -epe t! tlon. pf Ihe accnsatlons of tb< meeting ol ApTll B, . , (
. In their -order I will take up m: accusation's and oxplaln them nov 
<Tor the enlightenment of the stu­dent body.
In the first place, the Edltor-in- Chiefof any .publication Is respi­ntole only for thè editorial policy of his paper and.nothlng more. The 
* : ‘ess manager 4.Rwholly Tfcapon-Bible for advertising contracts, li iequence I do. not see'how yoi cun.hold me for any laxity, on the part\.pt the business.manager, hé was fully advised concerning the contracts,' These Vcòptracta, Incidentally, were filed hetofe 1 was formally brought before yonr body to. answer the charge?- 
secondly, yon-ócense me of tak­ing a dpfrtructlve attitude. Yon cite 
iple, ob- and
in the body of one issue o¿ the m^gdzfaè. Might I add that tbls [tfrée not of 'editorial nature nor it presented os such. ' I offersi yonr meeting of April-6.to give planatlon of the editorial pa^i this article and yon/lnformed that It would not he necessary. t> my ' destructive attitude.In. ictual editorial policy, I criticized >nlv those things' thát.l.considered k positive evil ;on .the campos, 
onsider your accusations as to destructive attitude to^be a d.ellh- ;er^to blow at freedom of the presi Inasmuch as you presume to dlc- tate editorial policy, somethlng:en- 
lde tit.your position.. ing your third aocnea- tion, I firmly believe that' you ate Rasing your judgment ot the tone of ¡thé entire-magazine on one or two JokeB which were' unsavory In, yonr ipinion. No material wfaatevér has. been printed In -Puppet this year that has not been (favorably passed on hy Puppet’s faculty representa­tive.'..-• v ••
University .of Pittsburgh and 'Car- negie Tech, elected /its. offleer», . for 
the coming year; Sunday,rAprii'24, a»;;:the. Church of the AacensIon.'. The.eix. offlcern elected'were: Pres­ident;. Cecil Wray, a junlor at Car-aegle; Vice • president; ‘iSalljr Haw- 
thonie,aMatganit.liorriBonJiinlor,and: ‘ social • chainnan,'. ;Eleanor 
Smith,' alio pt-Cariegie; • -The Pitt represenutlvés; jon the cablnst are1 vice: president,’í froDU pitt,: Virginia Parlaijd; ;:;se«r*tjary,, ¦ Rebeem'^ Bo-'
of Episcopal • Undent* tr«B th#|,Ueurtoor, «obert'P«nT-
> comply.
II- . In-your editorial- policy j
ive-taken a.destructive attltadi iltlon rot conslateht with the >u i liojd 'as-' chief oj
i the Dean' of Mët>, <
; drop*
.position.
campus pubiitatio] 
underetaod .that ony cohstroctlve 
criticism leads' to improvement. Ex^ ample; Article on ^n^al 'Aesem-
nr.; '-The - council 1 ia ^ concerned 
wlth the; relations ¿f tiie Puppet to Carnegie, rather . .than 'its; status 
amoogothercolIege.conLfcawhtch he^ve; features which ?woiiia; never 
.be -tolerated; here.'-’We'jokes peering'this year; which are pialtf-1 ?y .of a low ordef^ are', inetcusahiiel 
We; believe the ;'Editor-in-Ct)ief the perebn tpvbe held ^lially ^responsi­ble for .aU;-mkterIaV ln . Piippet^ .' ‘ IVv The? Business - 'iianagef ot the Puppet, for- the’first semester of the - sehppl year.. i192e-27; 'becanie: Ineligible scholastlcall^ at.'thb mid­dle of said semeBter and at! present 
•is not In gchooi.'^Accordlng to the Puppet .constitution ¿nd the Inetl- tutp,'eligibility.: rules,"rales, he hie 
no .right whatsoever /to retain this position after being. declared in-
ellglWe./eftherqpeniy^.or'otherv wise; furlhermore.. t^e.Ed'itor andhi* staff wire rem/n3<jd of tWs rnl- Ing. by_a letter from ¦the OffIc«';6i the ; Dean df Men.' Contr»r^-'to' -Ari:
tlclenr.ofthepppwtc^u^| covering (hev ahove': niling, the I I'Buaineas Manager./with ftUl kndwl-1 
.edge-aad- ianction of.^he-B^lt^ln-Chl6f,;hiM xonuntiediiioii^^pjfr
surd oné: letter
flrBt. boèlneaa manager ___ Mlvt.
Ped as-a huelness'manager at the middle of the-first semester, font acted In an advisory capacity till 
of tho first semester with the. .consent of the Student Coun-
At the end of the flrst'semest- the acting •' business manager 
k over the‘position and all con- tlons with the. former business aager were severed./The evi«•nence presented In- support of this fourih. charge Is utterly rldtcttlousÀ uasmuch as it. is merely a misuse 
if Puppet stationary and the térm '•business Manager.- The ."official > 
.b.uBloessV:-mentioned in the -charge1 waa. a note-of thapka to the Presi-: 
.dent of the Night: Student Council 
acknowiedging.the receipt of com- Pllmentary; tickets eo a social fnnc- ¡tlon.' ,-;lt Jb not-at all nnusiial lor a 
former bneiness manager -fo. have (Puppet- stationary in'hls possession, 
withonfithe knowledge of the etaffj .and {he -editor cannot’ foraee. any ' misuee^t ench.stationary. .. "
• T°^j^U.note'ln;'my/letter. w April 22 th&t I have suggosted a court pf appeal-to act'at thè request1 
pf parties who feel thptr.the'Wud'ent Councll^may -be . prejudiced; In' its Opinions.^ When/this-was present-1 ed.atthe;meolln'i:^A^V 26?t^ 1>mmended as “a. goód point” and
ven. ao further consideration;It.is my personal opinion that in :the : ¡case of my .dlflmissdi^the' i dept Councll.dld nót kct 1^ ita' .Paclty as a representative of the 
sti^dept. body. : liiorther feel that the Stodent Copncli is not the voice 
“f.the'Btudentbody.hutisiuatead^ .functioningwithin the orgMltatlon^whiclj con- ! troie. the majority, voto : or the '-Stu- „dent Council.;. .-, /-.; .(¦ (V /,
;;For-this Teason, ànd: no'oth^r.' I .again, wggeat a'i conrt iof aprala;fompotpd of memb^ingof uie. faculty1 aad adalni«tnitlflQ ió act ln any and
aots Hn -a j«dicl*>y opacity .WlU
Standing under the dazzling light ot the Kllegls, eleven men, chosen hundred BPpUcantB tor, 
the Screen Test sponsored on oar ipus last Friday by First Na­tional Studios and College Humor, la turn faced the camera; obeyed 
director Trttb deference doe poteotate—and thus yielded their future to the success with which their features would register on tho film.
While the sasurrons shutter purled away, exposing the footage 
o the smiling countenances of the hosen few: high hopes swayed' heir elpted minds of the iabuIouB 
fame and Utopias' delights that Hollywood holds In store for those gods ot tho flicker have deigned to becomo one of theirs. Only a few fleeting seconds were, used in making the screen-teat—, yet holding, perhaps, in its tenta­tive tensenesB, all the cornucoplan prosperity, that the arcana of the ions ¡bestows on' thoee! whom' the goddess Fortuna smiles. - . ;Arthur. Koch, smiling most en­gagingly, M9. told by DIroctor Johnson that he was. an excellent! juvenile type. The Dramats, ot whloh four were chosen: Donald Willson, Waited Rogers, Carlton Young ond Marlon Cox, sandwich­ed the screen test in -between a 
matinee and an. evening per!« 
LU2L at the Arts Theater. While Wade Adams, Warren Kimball, CM- * * Edge, Edmund Bchuchert, Hugh Munroo, and Janies Daugh- 
irty stayod around .till after mid- light each casting his pwn ballot
EENETEDEDW
PICTORIAL SECTION 
CAMPUS SQUEAK 
WILL BE DIFFERENT
Editor and Staff Working 
to Bring Prominence 
to Back Page
and 'finely chiseled tea-1 tnr'es,; yet be entirely eliminated from a screen tost due to. the col­oring of the eyes,’» declared Dlrec- )i* Johnston, ‘.'dark brown eyes ep* ear like beads on the screen, hlle grey and light blue eyes'ap- pear lacking lj> substance." This
(rèat ls in storè for the purchasers.of the- Campus Weok Squeak. Two of the 'foremost ar­tists or the day, namoly, Mexfleld Parish and John Held, Jr.^wll) contribute ,ms!ny clover cartoons to' the Squeak < and help' malio tho picture'section ,tbe 'greatest ever produced.. It is Béldom; indeed, that 7 paper such- aa the Squoak rls able to obtain the services'of two art is ta of such fame: It is. Mr. Ar-1 
thur Seidel’s plan to make the picture section the prominent feature of the three Issues.' In stead of telllng'the^happsnlogs oi the campus wee^iays ip,.words, pictures will be used.. v 'The sale of .subscription cam­paign is under way and-it ls ex- pocted that very'neor-a - -h Un deed per cent sale will result. Bvery one should' order» ^/Squeak - and
prlci
will be booths oa\the Vamj take care of-the tpwn subscribers; and to Bell single copies. -All sab- ' sia in thé Dorms and Fratem- wlU have their.papers deliv­
ered at their doors every .morning
PLEBEPROMOF 
LAST TUESDAY 
A?BI6_ SUCCESS
46 Freshmen Are Exempted 
From Regulations For the 
Balance of Freshman Year
CLEVER COSTUMESIN 
EVIDENCE IN PARADE
Jndging By Âssembllss of . AU 
ßohools Weeds Oat the 
Original Plebes.
partly; explains' why all the stains of-the street may not be Bhelbe of the ecreen, tind it also explains 
n-for the mlraculonB .L2R boflt of untalésted no&en* stardom—chléfly because1Nature has endowed them with the................................ _
qualities which photograph perfect-1 are very entertaining and
by. the.sustalning efforts of, Interesting In the reapect that
illlble public:.
It was Indeed a prudent moye'oA the part of the motion, pictures to neek possibilities for futore stars’ In the colleges. With SucceBs—lip. mlnent aa it may now seem to iome;. one wonders whether the 
lionotony of the otiose existence mjoyed by screen .celebrities‘will
eldered should be the nurturing of w matérial In a clean envlr- far away from the present1 
, ... Jf. fleah pots, which in a pre- ( UDB m me aucaKera oi me,eve 
|n®tance has shown ite derog- J During ihe evening , thers 
¦-«- Individuals hold-, be an election of officers1 for next
year The chairmen, of the ban-
Theater Party and Election of Officers For NeKt Year.
The Carnegie Kiltie Band: will hold its annual banquet on Satur­day, May . 7, at Kleeman Inn, in East Liberty. Among the guests of the. evening will be Proaidcrit Bakeir, Dean,Tarbell, Buddy Ovor-end and Bob'.Waddell. Mr. E. Sullivan, .who has been the director 
of tho Kiltie. Band; ever slnde it was first organized, . will alao be one of the flDtakera of!the,evening:
ing a diploma,
B7lLeUa Y72L.XLn
One week ago today the annual Plebe Prom was held and 40 Fraah- ipted from regula­tions,(or the remalndor of the>year.iptlons were baaed on the - ap^lauBe of the respective asaem- 
blloa'asd was'judged bythe presi­dents of tho Senior, Junior and Sophomore dasBes. Tbe Prom took place betwoon thfr hours of ll:3Q nd 1:00, when.all 'FreBhmen were 
.tilred In tbelr. Costumes- and paraded before their asaem’bllea. After theexemptions had "been 
Parade was formed before Langley Lab. and marched to the ' Gym, whero a short skit- was held.
All Freahoion' partlolpatlng in the Prom were required to enter .the parade, which, wee headed by the Clown Band, also gmntod the privilege of . dropping ' regulations lodiátély followed t>y those fórtpnaté enough; to have. earned ;the.lp, exemption card.- The Prom conBldwod a great success , by - _ all! who wiinoesed.it and no small 
if .'credit la due Ó. Van 
who waB ta chQTEq ,ot the .
Tho names of.' those oxompted aré as follows:
Clowu Band—T. Connelly, C. Sel- .stin, c. SueBBerott', R, Golbreth, R. 
CrlBt, ;B. Sqptt, W, Anderson, F. Mooney, J/ Vlctor,:;R.. Doorge, R. Browa. B- niodmoIer, E. .Bachman,\V. Wórland end H. L. Moody. Soleare—C. J. .Long, C, Bhawt/;
Arts—Janette Wllaon, Fraucle Blsmarick, Geraldine Ruok, Evelyn Cooper, -‘Gao. Schenecty, Robert MaoLeod, Wessley JMllls and Joe Snyder. '¦¦ ¦.
Industries—j. A. Griffltha, O. F. Qullberti P. L. Creeley, O. Z., Ad- amBkl/ W. D. 'Baldwin,' L. Kaseha- gen, O.'Leslle and F. O. Sturges.M. M.-^Locliie Fisher, Irene Tucks, Dorothy-- Oldham,-.Shulty, ‘ SoTai Curry, Vero Fiukelstlne. An- Reynor and Lotltla: Daly, • "
To Present Recital 
Of Music Dept. May 5
The students of the Depattniei of. Music will glye one' of their Sunday evening recitals on May B 
• 8:15 In the Little Theater. 'Mat* tnew Frey will accompany at thc piano and Alfred H. Johpson at the organ. No cards ot admittance are required. The program, which will include Bach and Beethoven, will .'be aa'follows: - ! .Bach—Toccata.- and Fugue in. & Minor for . organ. . ,
Frederick Chapman. Vivaldi—Allegro concerto in A- minor for. violin, jilaao and orgai . 
Madeline Ferguson,. Margaret. Cline?: Frederick;Chapman..- Beethoven—Plano Sonata, Op. 29 . (Pastorale).-Allegro, Andante, : Scherzo and Trio, .Rondo,
James. Miller. - Viettxtemtia—Fantasia - . Appeeel- ..- onata for. vloilnV”Katherine Rickert:.; .accompanist, 
Margaret.aaiiaghet» • Bach—Easter- G&utMa, “Christ - ¦ Lay in Death’s Dark Prison,’?. ' '::•X^W^•Th€^ Baclí'•!iClrtj^¦, =¦- Directed by JeanrD. - Seaman... Sololsts^T-Albftrta- Irvine, soprano 
and Ailen'-.y./.ifern, tenor-'/- .: .,. . MaUhew, Frey /at the. piano, Al­fred H.vjohpsoii'at.tlioorgan.
committee, N. D. Cole apd J. u:/smiley, have arranged that an 
enjoyable-entertainment and mbv- |ea% will follow' the banquet and comprise '„Ihe remainder of the eve- “•n^p.rpgram. In short, a pleas^ aot'/eveiilng has been, promised to those who attend.IThe KllUee are now .working some clever-stunts , for the Kaper of the Klltlea, to be. presented dur­ing. Campus Week, /before, the Qual- 
iflcation Exerclsea - iake jilace.The. members of the band ; are also preparing for their concert to be given at the . Alvin, Theater on the evening ot May 10.'. ! '
:;,the. meeting of/^the'- General pus _ Week ‘ Commute^.-last Tuesday evening the. following con-
cesrtons ' were /-awarded: - Söftdrinbsj Donald, paltbplc« ¿ream, 
Arnold ; • Petreton ; ; aandWlches, Jobn i.Carr;>.¦ capdy-. af 'vaudeville1 8b®.v* .Alpha Kappa ,pal>8ororlty';1 
<andy;.at .CampM'Week-ihhw,-Jn;, tersorority CpuacU!;.pictort gijléry I at; Country Fair,, AIpha.;Kapi*'Fpl1Sorority.
owa. leglsUtlos./¦
: :• Racftedfaltr.V
(Continued Brom'! Page^one.Alphi Chi Alpha Is a national journalistic. ' toiiorary society, 
are chosen from the-glrla of. (Marg^et Morrison' and Arte school at. the end of their Junior 
In . recognition ot meritorioui work on- Carnegie publications. ;Dragbn ia.;.the : Senior honorary Boclety tor. men. Members ' are 
. njthe basis of- activity, leadership apd character. Fifteen 
chosen/from; the. ‘ Junior, classes of the'Tien’s =' achooia- and this body .cooatltuiesvWe.-'actlre chapter for the following' 'year.' 1Tau sigma Delta is a hatiooai lociety 1, the' Coilege ot-Flna Artfl; 
which chopseB Ita/menibers from archltcstare and: j the '-associated arts op the, basls of class standing; actlvltles ;and oharacte?. - 7 ' •_
: Scatbard^^ and ‘BiBdift''is. an. hot»' orary; which chooses . Us ^membera from those;: student».'.taiting/-tlie' ,vanced courses' la. the .fc' O. - T. c! with ;the/intention': of : acCepHag e . cbmmleslon in.- th^^flcera^/RW
DelU. Skuli.istSeVJuai or.' h on'or • ary society. Fifteen' tuembers of the Sophomore/-.CUMsi/'Srho'^have dlstingufahed themselves > 1n ;acUv- Ules; leadsnblp :ud-'chaMt«r’'are. c*l|ed.- These membert «inatitnte the actlve'bpd* dnHiigj tha folibw- Ing year.
Pt-. pelta ®p*Uep ia g natfooai i 
¦: iraUmltr,
Distinctive Senior Dress 
losing Favor With Men
Senior' Distinctive Drees, .em­blematic of tfie estato of--. Senlor- tmvy or;may;not pass oat ot Dnual.upperrclass curriculum; 
at present It is.a question whether ustom will be continued or ¡o.ihe way all traditions con­sidered unnecessary go. Tlie Senior. Claes,..as a -whole, shows indlffer- 
to.thB;!dea, and it theMresB continues to be used to mark, the difference- between the graduates- 
to-be/and.the nnder-graduat^a, tho. practice for th^ SenlpTB..wlll he a sb'ort-iivod one this year, for wlUt Campus. Week drawing' near and Senior Week not so far away, there will he a short space of time tor tho display of^nalgnla.. ... ^•For- several - years .It. had'.been the custom .of ¿he. Seniors to,.wear such"thlpga:aB the Senior hats and striped canes, or aome sign of their leadership and’example to the un­
der-classmen. The Senior hats are entirely in disfavor and the,.canes are deemed - rather- botifcraome. . S’everal suggestions havo - been made, including the one that.hlafe ers should be worn, but this :ldea entail» too mack dxpeoae along 
wlth the other expenditures.of :the Senior year ahd the.idea has .fallen 
Into disrepute. So that as. yet there has been no definite doclston by the men’s schools la ¦. regards to tbls.subject 
Margaret Morrison has ordered and .received Its distinctive., dress which consists ot grey jackets, trimmed with the Cameitla oi&M.
gle publications. .
Druids, ; the ¦ Sophomone • honor.
thea»y, cbooaeB-its'niembers fi moat actlVefand prominent the .Freshmen Class of the men'a schools.- ...- 
The Clef Club is the musical hon­orary, .,1 • y v .;
The committee in charge , of the <3uallflcatlpps Day, u!- composed of ^/PHo^wlng: George . Pettlcord,chalnnan; .Louis' ’Fainastock, oVDS 
l^m;>.Mur.dpc^,..Wayne High, / Mar- 'Moor^--;and Elizabeth! „Burt
^Vegé.^has'Á been.appolntedhead
-, v, .. exiilt the male; and • riUtfter.;:;the, domUùiUòii/-'óf;Kft ’-s.'/i'i'
•toa ai Caabridge nlrmlty.

---------------------------------------------------

. 1917 Englneerlitfl
Although 1927 Is not the official 
¦vear,accordln&to tie OI* PI*0, 
• lor -ÜiB cIaaa ot 1911 to hold a re­
union, Uiey. tmve. taken .the occa­
sion of their tooth anniversaryto 
;jbrtnk air tho 'old 'crowa together 
fluring^ Caa^us. Week of this y<
Alumni Will Arrive, Regis­
ter and Get Ready For 
the Mardi Gras
union this 
bas bad 'silice graditeti'' This VÚl be the iad 'flit> toe very well attended-Mr. Thomas Ore,
. who," is la . charge. of YiTangpmenU for ibe reunion, over 65. members,' or ftboiit'two-thlrde of the class, have already responded to his com­munications and eSpect. to be present Special etents have been ¦ arranged ffor..;the members of the 
class, to fit Into the 9ampus Week program. Headquarters for 1917 
will be on tbe °. new gymnasiui . _' union. ,A special dinner will be • b'eld on Saturday night,which a complftteblock.of tipkets have been reserved for 1917 ait th< 
‘Campus Week show,."The Dovll’J Deu,” at the.,Nixon. The class of liH7,. although, a prewar..,class, found Itself badly depleted .in nui bers ’before, they) graduated, sin« tlie. majority of lls • members e_ .listed. In the service. Many of ihem nevel graduated, but were granted degrees by the faculty and administration in honor of. their eulistihent For this reason, many of'the students who attended the school at any tlme during the four years with the class ot 1917 may .¿ot feel as If they had the right 
to attend the’
Alumni should matte a special effort to get . to Pittsburgh som* time on Wednesday In order to get-through all ot the interesting details of registration In. time- to get ready for thè Migratory Dance la the evening, liast year the nimni Headquarters, were.on the 
porcii of the hut library. CrDr. year, 
they will be In the quiet,.sphere’ of the Trophy- Room on the flrst floor of the n gymnasium. The flret thing to 
upon arrival on the Campus Is register in the Trophy Ro«m and secure cAtnpuB week tags, 
bers whotl dues should.i drews la Room 206 Ovcrend In the gradus office, both _tn the
i MiniBuddy"
d the. pay 
>t them will carry Innum­erable recompense» which extend 
throughout the' year.
Vaudeville ûfld Qualifica­
tions; Calls and Corona- 
\ bon of Queen
will pay all good Carnegians Alumni to go home early from Migratory and- get a good 
night’s Bleep In .order to be able to get up bright and early the next morning to see tho Inimitable and 'unreprcdacaMe. vaudeville 
which will bo the feature of ottrac- ticn scheduled-for Thursday morn­
ing. • This gigantic performance, by btudents will 'take place at 10 In 
tho Carnegie Music Hall and really
anyone who know
! mles It. Ask And besides, 
without head­
aches. and others, will enjoy the 
stimulating walk to the Music Hall, down through rot Schenley Park: with the sui peeping over the Beanery, and thé. the i
welcome, and th« o attend should lose tíine In communicating -With 
itDûB 'Ôrr, 318 Park
ilreet car. The thing is to. g« In-¡to the Music Hall in timo hot t
___________ >ipt miss anything. A remarkable fe.
the “Tartan," student ne-wspn-1 lor those who bate not had an \ bi-monthly Issue of the “Alum* | çlght-tblrtles during the semeste
Athletic Events; Sweep­
stakes Women’s Ban­
quet; Mardi Gras
Tennis Tournament; Alum­
ni Luncheon; Country 
Fain Show
may, by .paying-$4.00, be placed In good standing until June 30, 192S.- Each alumnus in good standing will, be entitled to two campus week tags' anil. two only, because the. committee In charge earnest'
» be "all Carnegie.’’.The .campus ... _ . rfeek tags, are Î1.00 each and ; willSouth Hills, Pittsburgh, In order e¿ütle the possessor. to ail campus .be placed on the. maUlng list| except the -woman's . ban-
" * a I quét, on Friday, evening, the. Alum-for special announcements. f< rouhtoh; A special committee has been’appointed to secure attend­ance from various sections of ihe country.' Class membero In the
Olio «rtrfet Bhoutd Ot to touch, ^ tolopboos, or >»11.
¦»Itl AnJre"- c“n,T6E!e’ T°U“F’' I Reservations ¿ay be coiled tor In n- O ' or Louie Jacobson, Day-, lood1 200 JnUieNew Gymnasium
ni, ltincbec
on Saturday e lions,must be
Saturday at noon 
•‘The Devils Pen;" eñing. All jescrvfi- ¦aUed it tolephoi
w the price or
9ry great influenc« ill.only: be Thurei cotirse, you taxied sronnd to 
ilgratory.
Qualifications 
11 you. feel you must catch ’lib some of yoar sleep, here
’clock so as to be present In the bowl to see the patient and bumble Freshmen being liberated frojcii the .bondage, of plebe Regu­
lations which has Irked them, or been, shirked by. then), throughout
closely to. Bee tbal.deference to the; very' last moment,, tier
| ALUMNI TENNIS STARS 
PLAY VARSITY TEAM
One of the most important eventB of Campus Week, especially lor Alumni, will, be the annual 
tennis tournament between the old grade—rnet stars that used, to hi -^and those now shining In Cai 
hegle: flnnameht. Last year the Alumni were. beaten; they claim, by; the untimely introduction ©I- a hew piayer by their opponents In­
to the game. As a result they are more than ever determined > tc 
tarry off- the honors this year. Such men as Jimmy O'Cbnnor, runner-up in'; the Western'. Penn­sylvania / tournament for. 1925 DaviB,' ¦ 'Oldest ranking1 captain, 1920; “Conney"- Swarts, who played In ’24; Jack'Beatty, a 1920 man; George Beeoher, who played 
in '24 and ’25, and Bob Schmertz, '21, will probably be lined up
ALUMNI FEDERATION 
LUNCHEON-SCHENLEY
The annual Alumni Federation luncheon , will-be held this year at 
Saturday, May 14, at the Hotel Schenley. The guests ot (¿nor who have been Invited to 
ittend-this luncheon-fc
i the î /Merrill, ÏHélistrom; -In' the Middle Wesl with P. B. Harwood .or UW.Shei Wood. Let’s go, 1917; it’ll' be
; 1917 Margaret Morrison
-. The clasa oif Í917, v>Jargaret 
M'òirtsón .College, will holdâ tenth.
iy. from.- 9..
May B. Those who can.n ing the day will find the. Tuesday- and. Wednesd 
May J0; and 11, from 6 Mias.: Ruth Andrews oi Overend ,in charge.-
Migratory: Dan< 
The ..Migratory Dan 
opening'
; 5, -beginning
y nights,o 9, with
. tbe
«lési thing .they do. Next will' be the actual and pathetic funeral of old tnáá.Pleb'e. ftegulatlooehim- èli. ' Axnong those not present linòng' the mourners will be tb<
i lea on Fri- : the
home of Margaret. Wirths , Towl, SG67 Beacon street,-Pittsburgh.- Notices in the torm of , cards .have been-sent;,out. The plan for. .Fri­day evening is to attend the Wom­en’s banquet at the Carnegie Inn. On. .Saturday, afternoon at 1 there 
will be. a ct'ass lucheon at the Rus- kin -Apartments. The-, guests c honor wlU be Miss Breed. Ma garet Morrison director; Miss Di inarest, Mrs.: Philput "and ' Miss 
Moore: Tbere "Hill he several¿bori; Interesting speeches. ’ In th. 
atteriibó'nHhe class wtíl attend th« Alumni ten'In the Faculty parlor aV:Mffrgaretr M<Jrriaon from 4 to 6 Fór Satùfday evènlhg a block of 
: seats1' have besn /Becured lor . the. Campus 'Week ’show, “Thé Devil' 
Dsn," at the Nixon Theater.’ A. 
reservatlbns ishouicl - he Miss Lenore .Reid, car Inetituteroi Technology, as .‘possible:
greaalon of dances throughout the.
I entire evening. Orchestras h'av of the fri ternttles; 19 in number. For weeV ihead the plebes • of ' each houe 
md the prospective pledges ai jept busy carrjflng !dll .tti&iJunkM 
tbe tblrd. floor, arrangli
Freshmèn, :hólf a dózen of wbh lh the trodltional block robes and j -AjUIil¿, c'ail ¿e vouched for. by 
is ór;ihe middle ageB> slightly l BL¿dentfl :who went to, Carnegie. In i and‘Tagged .now'from the ra7- J9l9 Vheñ' Jack'Beatty was cap ng.s8tot tjme. ^nd usage. wQl. escort ¦ ttü¿ of a'cfac^érjack toain; in.l92{ 
shallow I whan Beatty,' S'chmertz and Dayli 
part .of the team whtoh 1' tennis: to fiave the most Carnegie, had
: itf ;
that the.dim lights v»Ul 
iotdisclose various and sundry igaret holes burnt In the uphol- 
terlng.. Tbe wajdng ot the fl« is left .onUl the very, last mom 
ek because last
bevy, of over-én; tradlUonal, Free}
aid !
Contemporary :
Samuel H. R. Cogswell,, Mr. 
John S. Herron, Mr. William Frewv Mr. Roy A. Hunt, Hon. Charles H. Kline, Mr. Frank J. Lanaban, Hon. 
James MaciaTlane, Mr. Augustus K Oliver, Mr. John L. Porter, Hon. jamea H. Reed, Mr. J. C. Hobbs, Mr. Otto :Kahn,- - Mr. Charles W. Schwab, Mf. Frank B. Jewett, Mr. E.- M. Herr, Dr Thomas-Si Balter; Dr; A. A.-'Hommerschiag and Mrs. 
Louis.. Carnegie.
In ptevtous years it has always )én tbe custom of the alumni ot- inlzatlons of the four colleges of- irnegle to: invite the members ot 
the graduating class'to attend the iual Alumni 'luneheon, held on. 
tbe Saturday oi Campus ; WeeK This' year-the Individual alumni or- bave very kindly of* a part of the expense 
of the Sènior luncheons and tick- ' therefore available to tbe______ Bt $1.00 each, which is Just
hAir the .price of tbe luncheons to 
alumni.
Athlette Events, Etc. 
Ajrd'HtfW'thaf wo; have a Cam­pus Quean-lb^.festlvltles may pro­
ceed and. Friday (the 13th, shiver spine) Is devoted largely to athletlq events, - including of course
Bright (maybe) and be held the sweepstake« ill the fraternities put forth their best efforts towards winning Ui puehmoblle race, but tbe ¡fair c« 
eds oC the campus will demonstrate 
their ability. In the gentle roller skating.The course tor the girls will'be 
from Central Building to Margaret Morrison and back again. Each dormitory Is represented by two girls, Including Woodlawn, Fofbes Street, .Mellon Hall, Forbes Hall and Margaret Morrison Communt- era. .There Js every reason to be­lieve tbat tbe race will be a close* ntested one,.If.one may Judge the practicing which has been I 
; .on atiout the campus the I few weeks.e cup, which is awarded ie i Cor speed, so with the fast 
girls we have on the campus the outcome Is extremely doubtful; ,evertheless, every girl will carry 
ier own skates. If thi
Sweepstakes Final 
The final day of Campi will be rather qui« lngv (Intentionally but several events will take place. 
The Sweepstakes finals will be run md thiB promises to be a real thriller, .since it is the cream of the heats run on Friday. .
An Inter-ciaes lacrosse match will also take place in the morn­ing. This will give you an oppor- 
unlly
In addition to. the-many decora- . tlve 'features .which wtU grace the campus during Campus Week,-the otun.ni who return this year will 
be both surprised and pleased, to note the numerous- permanent tm- provements whlch have been usade wJthln the last year or so, 1 
Week] . The'gtouhds about the buildings, under the skillful, direction, ot Col. >therwlse), \ Falriey, have been transformed
___ lewly adopted
spori here ¿I Catnegl*- For thosealumni who .like. ‘wthe. gym-
imbr.e _ Coffin grave. Th^' piabeawhether they .nre expected to laugh or cry—ft doesn't say In the | little white book, you know, do neither, which is always the safest 'thing for a pleiid any bow and' look look' dumb, that Ja, mute. Then cmes^the' awe-lnspiTlny^ceremony. 
f forging; a new link upon the Car­negie chain.. LAnd wbo knows, this may be the miss'injHoni
an early hour fr«Week celebi aa'an.enjoyable evening. AU the 
cushion tops embroidered by the giri back home', all -tlie
While the uadefgradut think they bare a chance, hi aren't quite sure, . sit and. fldgi and try to loiok unconcerned and t if' they would ' be so surprised if they were, because they hadn't ex peeled to be, called, the solemi (to those who aren't) and linpree who are) ceremon; of calling fraternity . brothers,- »there.the folds of the ..Honorary Frateni- 
wlll' take'-'pli
known, the year they carried thè’ collegiate sectional chan plÀnshlp' by a series of decls^y IctórieB made poSBlble by the u^>| beatable combination of the “big 1921' when Schwartz and Schrtertz’ carried out the tra­dition of Carnegie’s pluck and won for the1’ second consecutive year tbe Western Pennsylvania cbam- plonshlp with tour ties /and one defeat; or In. 1923 when Schwartz ' .plain and. the illiistrlpui
; Mamie,broken last Campus Week, and all ithé" handípaluted salt shakers 
'mttFrteeT'in ' 'wblcVcame Irom sómceB »«Hoi______ trotted out t
Mtóa6 aue sintth. ^1917 claSs preB.i-1effect upoi dent; Mlsè '-.Lenore :^iil',;;r:secrè' | th^ .other , n-ateri 
tàry; Mrs. T. C. TòwI/eòciaicbali
I. Miriam Welkert.
1922 Margaret Morrison
.-The class :of 1922/ bas Btfuck upon a novel Idea for their-reunlon which .will in no way, ¿onfllct with tho numerous events on the Cam­pus Week calendar.-- .The idea is 
very simple, but attractive. The members of thle wlde-awaka class wlll -have breakfast together at the Hotel Schenley on Saturday miorn. ing,- May 14th, at 9:30 ' o’clock, 
Members are- requested to be there •promptly. In-order that the clas!
produce 
the boyd ties when they how shabby "tbi 
other • irat Is' getting. to, be>^ , A11.......... erware and ¦ moveable ob*the piaceJare: counted and 
catalogued and labeled' In order ¿iscpurage. those friendly, '.friend' who ! Just' . dote-¡pllècting
.. Thiihcludlng. those bought, acquired or ..-otherwise, is locked, la.'the safe aiong. with all alarm .clocks! and Other 
Jewelry. Tbe boys’ motto is "That ye may not. be led Into tempta­tion,” because, they believe . In 
Judging others from th<
lfaternllies in
College *'Vli Ils .are'. .Alpha
».the
-The two hoi Margaret'Mbrtison ike their ci 
Chi Alpba, women’s halUtlc fraternity,'' ously to last yeai tmpuB a's Pi- Slgma^Tau and Mor- it Board, Senior Wom<»'B H«•y. The qualifications: for: Alpha Chi Alpha Include work on-publi- ¿atlons, scholarship and character; ^lortar Board;. which, was made na> Uonal' at Carnegie .in ..1923,-%-and- hlch baa/chaplers-Iu SO .colleges-
by ’ii thrè
the pool may do 
eo Friday at the same hour.
Alumni Luncheon 
First ot all, don’t forget ta your reservations for tho lui on your reservation blank. Seats 
will be at a premium andutoly prerequisite to order them 
forehand. The luncheon is held at the Hotel Schenley ?. M. and a larger representation the fairer sex Is expected this ar. The entertainment is being 
kept a dark secret, but there will )t be any long speeches..
Country Fair 
!Th©‘ Country Fair offers another opportunity lor tbe various fratern­
ities ‘to show, tbelr originality and ibfllty, aH there will sgiln be a ;up given to the fraternity -pre- lentlng the best stunt or exhtbllioi
annual ploughing ground 
“thing of beauty/’ The lawns many weeks of care by Fritz, .ardner,. whose.familiar "Keep 
Off the Grass,” has been heard frequently of late,’has now reached it near perfection, especial­
ly those between Science and In* dustrles, and In front of Arts.In furtherance ot the plans tor beautifying the campus, trees have 
beon planted in various parts of tbe lawns, and although they have not grown enough to fully show their beauty. In several years’ time they will add a great deal to the' campus- Orientalplane trees'have been plsnted along tbe cut, which In time will form e beautiful shaded avenue of approach to the school. (A concrete walk will be
the Fair. The c the girls’ dorms has also renchi a higher state of competition thi ever- before, so that the Fair w offer a large variety of events.- Details of the fraternity stun of course, are boing kept more"
for, end needless is entering with a grim determli tlon to win this year.- Two silver dorines have-been offered by th«Women’s Athletic Association foi the best costumes.
Then.: we havev- the traditional fraternlty.9weepetake9. As ln the last year the fraternities will coi la heats,, with the finals Si 
fha“£?°i!!ii. ftfitalp'Vbbut the girls’'etnnts. The
ai, TZ ^ > ch«*e of the ahJ rf L * : various balls: Forbes, Hannah0 be runJs shown in a cut on one ^ Leone Bell; Mellon,
J »?8 McMaaters; ‘Forbes;Street1 the_various fraternity^ cara^ has,Virginia Clovis; Woodlawn
been kept & Dorms, Maizle WHllafais; M. M.»av ««>« Jotfimutert, Harriet Wiggle, and
Iris Commuters, Rosalie Marthens.Tbe hemes of their stunts are 
tuggesUve
the walk on the cut,' but at present the ground has not setUed' suffi­ciently to warrant the concrete walk. Shrubbery along Langley 
Lab and around the other bulldlnga bas also added considerably to tbe e of the buildings. Tho 
the buildings. ore every year spreading more, giving the school a more venerable appear­ance; similar to some of the older 
Institutions in the country.Another Improvement bas been the.installation of.a.new-lighting 
system between Margaret Morrison and Machinery Hall. . The number of llghtB was cut downj but a much 
improved, type, both In appearance and' efficiency, - bas been subsll> .luted. A new walk between Science and. Machinery Hall has been’laid and the appearance of the.grounds immediately In froht'of Machinery Hall has been completely changed.ot .paint on yarious o'icludlnf
Hut and the dormlloi nded to liven up things. Aside 1
i the itrip.
'throughout thé*- countrÿ^ baa« cali -.upon! scholarships, nd leadership among wc
ing 1-oduce the nbo1» tor t
tlstlc effect In the deci bach Iraternlty. Starting with the migratory dance last .year,. Alpha Hho Chl glves a'cup tn the m 
ity wblcn produces the mo« tonishing effect, with tiieir .vs devices, including lights an .freshments. Last year,.'although ,17 other, fraternities disagreed with president, and Mrs. John Herman,. tjle «jeCi9t0n ot the '.Judges,. ..th« oeo :M.arion McCombs, secretary, | pflze waa awarded to the Sigma •have charge of all arrangements. ptl5 Epsilon,.house on Woodlawn It-.Is planned io read. at the break-1 aQd pbtbes. streets. Competition fast, letters from class pates-.who. fop the'coveted prize wlll he ki on account of formidable'distance thlg y^ar> and -all "who atten< other uncontrolable- coadltloOB, ! migra.tory will benefit .by thel
should be ret
complete lnf( Falknor, nee
t' Ann Arbor and 'ay of Cleveland, bringing ' victories over Weat Vlr- Washington .& Jefferson.
Oherlin, Allegheny and a tie with Michigan. '
i.,game.<wUl be played oa the 
•Carnegie-courts .on-'Saturaay- after- noon about .2 o.'clock. As there is nothing, special-scheduled on: the 
CampusVweek calendar for Satur­day afternoon, there could be no .belter, way of spending it then to attend this teanls game, • which promises .to-be ondtof . the'most In terestlngypfilts kind. It wlll hav« lli .the charm of breathless uncer tainty.; whichrvusuaily..- permeates 
such- events .with the' addltlonal.at*’traction, of non-professional, tennis.:} speakers will, playad in thei way which’ pdt Car- negle on-the tennis map 1n West­ern Pennsylvania during the years 1920. 1921, 1922 and 1923.
___ ’ of the
ni«« Federation, the luncheon 
I be “short and snappy” In oi
acquaintances and 
ndshlna will be renewed. Tick- may be obtained after, May 2
new dymnaslum, under the lervislon öf Mias Ruth Andrews, 
Alumni secretary. Do not fail to if;you do you will mlsi biggest apd .best events of
marks of .the: various fraternity men Indicate that-competition-for tho design cup Is also.’very keen. Bach year; the cars have been get-, tlog faster and faster and indica­tions, are; that-tbe-rooprd of-a little more than. three • end a half min­
utes for the course may be> brokenthis• thrUlini
the -róce,, ot coui stretch dash don Science towarda
the -la
Athletic Evens 
a afternoon various athletic 
wlll-take place; 'At two1 the match between the
Forbes. Hall, Frisky Fashion of Forbes Hsll': Mellon) Our Bang Coniedy; M. M. Commuters, The First ' Commandment; Woodlawn Dome. The Bird,- Named Bingo, by 
Slam Bangey (a take off, on The Black'Flamingo);Various other features wit] add I to tbe Country Fair, which are bat­tler seen than described.
s S d 7 , ; -The Show,- , , 
iDably
tbe
ixternal addi­
tions and improvements the various departments of the Bchool have made additions. and changes dur­ing the year. In. the . college of En­
gineering, the Metallurgy and Me- chanjcal. departments hare. made .' considerable improvements, in tiieir equipment, as well ias' important additions.. The Electrical and Physics departments have made Important changes in their labor­atories. Many induslrlsil firms have ' realized the Importance ot college research and :have made gifts of pieces of apparatus. In the Col- I lege ot.-lnduetrles;tbe Printing de* •" 
partment - - ba%' made: Important
boys’. basBball game and the finals in the eliminations for A tennis championship are the. atures of ,the . afternoon.
i’s honorarles, which'will make calla. are Dragons, Men’s onorary; .,'Delta Skull, Junior - Class ; honorary; Druids.' Freshmen honorary;-PI Delta Ep- .. men’s honorary Journalistic alty; Alpha. Tau, Tau Sigma1 
Delta, Scabard and'Blade, and Clef Club.
Coronation Dance Coronation Is Just one big I breathless pause beforV th'e main I event, which-is the crowning ot the May : Queen, . chosen from among Carnegie’s fairesL'Tbls'year 
in spite of the. fact’ that' Campus Week Is “being done" in tbe Mod­ern Period; the Coronation will be carried out according to the Aztec tradition and superelltlon. The
scene-• fpr.r the magnificent spec­tacle is ; supposed to be laid in front ot^an 'Aztec temple, which will be, in this case, the new gym­nasium. The costumes, -designed by Verner . Purnell Painting and
vision l ot-. Charlotte taiume Economics Depar 
argaret Morrison Colleg« tarvelous . comblaatlone; of 
Ive: witchery- ' and exquisitebeauty.. -A magnificent head di
. Women’s Alumni Banqi 
The Women’s Alumni 1 111 be held- on Friday- evening, 
May 13, at 6 P; M., at tbe Carnegie Miss Green, dean of wo welcome the Alumni w<.... inti. Miss '.Genevieve Connors, Margaret Morrison Senior, will b< toastmlstress^ Cor-.-, the- occasion, i Music -wlll-^be furnished by ' the I Stringers, an :orcheetra. ot exqutalte I 
talent,-- consisting- of-, all Carnegie women.. There will also :be the. ^tadltlonaWetuat-’-by a group ot. 
under graduate students; Theae ntfl; .with- a.'-.few" interesting.the; entet- 
tainment^ flrogcam which- will at- .tend the banquet Alumni : may irvatlons- .by sending 
stamped > self-addressed envelope: (with money tor tickets ht. $1.21 each):to Mrfl. Carl E; Glock, No. 4 
Olympia Place, - S'qulrrel tlon; Pittsburgh; Pa- . 7b 
requested -to - make
ney. author of last yesr’s big Cam* | pua Week hit.. .The cast ia largely the same one . that participated In last year’s performance; and. we have-a real.-theater with .real the­atrical accoutrements for putting it on. So that missing “The Devil's Den” iSould be just like—veil, you Just .can’t mlsB it, that’s .all there Is to lt Better look npw and make sure .ydu'have'made. out your res­ervations' for it . ' >And by the time the show has. ended we hope'you will have spent
at' the
teraegle Inn. These luncheons iaye become a part of the Campus I7eek .and are. always looked, for­ward to by tbe women; The women if the class of -1917 are also-hold- ng a special’ ;tea. In the afternoon.Msrdl Qras 
. Of course the Mardi Gras needs little Introduction to those- who h^jeat 
,ye been Initiated-In the past, but ]pUB Week Carnegie baa
be’ unable to attend.
Arthur EMIotl 'and Clsrei the! The' Finance- Committee. ' lasting,.necessary «
1920 Enfllnterin 
. The class of 1920, College of En-1 glneert'ng, are plannlngi.lo' have ,a great time at their reunion during ] Campus Week, according ep.Glnsi:.| 
burg.on page 5, column 5,', and according to. Jack Beatty, former - member "and ' tbhnis BUir.. of ^l92C(. 
There is really very 'little‘to! say, '' in the way df Induco^ient,'to come- ifVyou. .r6ad .‘‘GinsburgV ',and.sthe
i produce a pleasing, impres
i -'the •;).:thl£
'- - thereabouts .with -' the, present day .’vairelty net' team .¿t, 2. on 'Saturday ' 'aCtemppn! oa^the. .Carnegie; courts, --miblt
.... ...............' '.make: It a memorable event in th<- lives of all who. attend. <i. The gen.-- oral committee consists of A. Paf-
enbacli, chairman; Harry Glnsburg. publicity ' manager; . Johnny. Tow- 
nesi. Matt Telle, C. Ri.Dobbeon, G. C. Howdj.and. Dave- Abrams. Tlie International' Relations. Committee consists of Johen. (Mike) Sweeney, iq.;- chairmanShlngo Ichiklna' ilesphor -J. Jendraslac, Meyer Kltalfl and Kuang Ml Sben. The yigllance r . .Committee, : which 'Jchecks up’’ ,upon'.: the.; conduct -. ot the' ^clOBS. since' they '.¿ayo ' gradu­ated/. ,^111 bo .-present!- nt' -.the'1 re- 
unlpji ln full.force, armed .'Wlth 's compieto-. and- devastating report 
about Its members. However,-'tbit should. - not . keep/-,any;- one; from I coming. - tio one can-affori td mles -bearing.- abput'^what;. the. o‘i£er/ieI- lows' have been doing. •' The Vigi­lance Committee ia . composed. of" Homer (Scoops) Carry, chairman;
fe&thei fui,, fiowl which i
early aa possible in der to avoid last^ moment fusion and -difficulty. The mlttee 'in -charge ot the: banquet consists of Margaret Nuttall, cb( man; -Agnes Blttaker - and Ruth
tendants o
vulged, bv primitive
the lovely. Queen. Th«
. This .Is. the year, according to tbe Dlx.Plan, for the classes of 1919, 1920,-1921 and 1922 to bold their reunions at Carnegie during Campus. Week. . All alutnni:- who!,- wish to<attend the reunion of.thelr - 
ciass snbuld get ln touch wlth one of their class officers or communl-'
énjóyáble Campus. Week sirice : your undergraduate days. From the Migratory to the Show, every-commltleei and many;not on working thelimake this thè best Cam*
promises .to be the. 
ost impressive and Imposing of ìy-.pf'.thòffe-beld as yet • • „
The .decovallbna wlU ne: the -same i ; those at the Coronótlon Dance,, which include two enormous mural pointings, 15.by 19 feet, whlch have-1 by -Lee Twbhlg of tho a . department; • these ¦be one. of' thá features Campus.- Week decorations.. Lanterna-of ,unusual- design Will be used S.0 give -,a - moohllght effect, desired at the
ask «
for Information. . The,.class office!,(or .1919,. Margaret Moirison,-. are Maty Truman, : president; .Laura ' Kramer, vice • president.; .Elinor Meil«>n, secretary;.... :k.. Salome 
1*B~tbat i.Stamm, treasurer; tor the .College
promise, t
much- to' b«Mardi Gras.,!he two orchestras which have 
been obtained ror tne occasion arethe Collegiate Imps and tbe Vlr- ____ ____
ginia Ramblers. Thepe probably | giorious. Campus Week. tkAv 
right there.' •
_ of Fine Arts, . Hilary Wflttersi 
.. do; in -the .way of promptness in I i’^Bldent; 'Mildred'. Floyd, ., vice returning* your, reservations.- and ] President; Constance-. ->McMahAD, 
^obtaining yoar-' tagB and tickets promptly when you arrive, and we feel sure that- you and we both will have ia most- delightful time.And not only' look-up -your 'old friends among the alumhl;' but try to' meet-some of - your; old'-profea- sors, 'who sire always glad to. meet 
you'again;---,And another thought, why- not.meet tM'ree'of the under- ! grads; they'll be,- alumni like you , In but a few years, so why not get
, and Philip Friedman, ; for the College ,of _In- R. P. Avery, Wm. Cläus-
ot- 1920, ..Margaret Morrison ¦ Col­lose. Agnes Piper, Mildred Krum. meli, Nell Brey, Mary Cummings; Coltege ot Fine Arts, Arlétgh Wll- 
P. Stewart, 'Jeannette
ni, 6
i "heard by. all the'Alum
musi«
id doubt the , : ' be1‘ pro*' d boards will -plumaagain be used to g to the music...It must be.remembered that
tend the Mardi Gras ely required tbat co 
3DI and'thls does n< as dotbos. So dig
Shirk, J. P;; Davis; Industries, Gil­bert Heddaen, Roy V. Mast, F. J. Simons, J. ti. Womack. Thoae wbo 
plan to attend . the 1920: Engineers reunion should get in.' touch ,&th is pos-[ J?0*1-, B^tty, Placement Bureau,
EIGHTH CÀMPÜS WEEK CALENDAR f
Glifen, chairnian; Ed- ard Hirsch, statistician; and M.
, Fair. And last but not least, te ; Glad ' Ilhand. ' Committee, imade.hp of'Grant (G. Ci) Stone,i lalrman; .David G: Saylor, Julian (Pop) Haplea, Jacob Schaeffer, E.> iockslager'.(Stove),.'and A, L. ede>- EUiótt - And they'll have their' gloves off, - too.'-All' th'osé.-wbo óàn possl.bly-'attend :sUoufd. get in Ipuct’ ¡with 'Bpme'.Tneniber ot . the ' general Committee or:: Avith' Jack‘s Beatty ' in . tho Placeraentj Bufeau 
ot .Carnegie- Tech as promptly 'as possible" ' All plhera should attend also;..ò-DilrIng Canipiis Week; the headquar’tors fpr thè. class''pt'192l»' wlil be in the CIvll Ènginèera ciub room, -in i thè ; • Science --Bulidlnr.' Watch forflèttera from.l920 'in, tlie ^Campu8,::-!W;eek'ÌSquea^v:;,which will be on sale every day on the campus' during Thursday, Friday and Saturday.'
¦ WHAT?
; Migratory Dancé.. .Thursday. Vaudeville..................... Qualifications and Horn
iris’ Volley Ball <
if the Gym. will be that tag¡
..Carnegie Music Hall
.Gymnasium Steps
the'_ .'be lm-l i | mediately .obtained and' you may 
X^o on..with tbe dance., y I We may mention here that .tot AjtlioSB who cannot stay over- till dYA Saturday night, tickets may.'be ob- ^ | t£iined for the performance ot the 
in,” which will be glveii
_ . Carnegie Tech. The officers of include j^he 1921 Margaret- Morrison Claes t some are. Margaret; Grlffen, Mabel Alex- ) and come around, snder, • Lois McCombs; Arts, Rob* st events of'Cam- *rt Drakei, Wllllard Perkins, Mary those.who cannot.. Murdock, John. Todd;' Industries, Friday night, tho ! Jas* Rlndlslll, Wm. Hall, Wm. Man- the Trophy room J.tell. Wm. Hug; Engineering, Otis- '
!. Campus 
'. Campus
’’rida;
in. this fact In 3 . that proper a
jslble, r reeervationintlon :
’ Tennis Game.
. 5667 r BeaConVstieet . .^-i given
<•'' Announcement has come trom X [ tlie. Grill that it will remain open 
Carnegie'Inn.- Xiafter the dancos on Thursday, and*.... * ^rlday... nights-, to accommodate
who wleh tof eat afterward.
...Campus ..Courts/
Carneglo Inn- .Gym,'Union,' Ait' Sch«»!
.......... -Hotel. Schenley.... Ì917 M: M.' Alumni Clae»-Breakfast..___AlumnilFéderatlon' Luncheon.....J 1917.Mi Aliimnl Class.Luhcheona., ................ Men’s- I'ennisi Tournament,' (Ajumnl-vs.^ Varsity); countryiFalr.'.Women'sfAlúnlnl Teá.^:.•;‘:.'..^.•.v••.,'— ,. .....___'....1920 Engineering Class Dinner..Civil Engineering Club.................. CampUB Week Show, *'The Devil's -Den".
Brandin, Lauren Hawkins, Chas. MçDaâé and Addison Man- kel. Margaret-Morrlson Class .for 1922, Laura Bulger Bugher, Thelma Adams, Beatrice Mayer, Jean M. 
Eakln; Arts, Wm. Burk, Katherine Munro, Dorothy- Cummings, -"-Ger­ald Oren; Industries; Alfred Wish-• Ington, Stanley Kothe,- Daniel Cas­sidy, Paul Moors;; Engineering, Robert Nation, William Mills, John Byler and John.;Nation; ; ; ''
: Accofding to' the DLf PIan, the classes’from the four colleges at Carnegie hold 'reùtiioiis ' evéry' 'five years. '.-'Next ÿeàr. 'ÏS; '17,;’i6 and 15 wlli reunite.'- In 1928,' class'14, ’13, *12 and 11; .la 1930 classes 
'29, ,28,/27,;,2g'h2B;.>10,:,09, '08'and say alumnus Wt any time
In fact,-if- the demand- warrants, !.the.GHIl may.serve.those whowleh)
to remain fór breakfast. This will ls>at a loss to know JuBt when, t offer an excellent opportunity to [ expect His class réùnioi
times- wlth ^yòur-bid pals receive compiete informattan ll.he.qùlet contrasti requests from ;M1X. Itutb Andrews, : 
206, Gymnasium, Carnegie"
and’-also .'offers _ ___________from the hilarious evening. Even 
Tilly Tllbrook has threatened to ! Tech, » vi be .there again with the gang. lotion Handbook.ipy óf the Alumni Feder--

---------------------------------------------------

STUDEIT” SUPPLIES 
C.M.STAUPT
FORBES AND BOQUET STS. 
OAKLAND^ ..
MORt, CORONAS ARE 
U6ED IN COLLEGE 
THAN ANY OTHER MAKE 
OP PORTABLE 
Before the days of Corona most college work was writ­ten by hand. Now every­thing Is typewritten. You'll find Coronas at work In every college In the world. More
mblned. Copie. In and a.ee
any « only !
STANDARD TYPEWRITER
2LAy7nK
129 FIFTH AVENUE 
Atlantic 0342
The Chicago Carnegie 
whico: uas. not been aa aclive In 
the past as it might have been, 
.bdd.-a meeting on April 22 a< 
Wdmea’e City Club, for the 
pose of lDBtllliog Qew life into it® 
members. There 
alumni. AfterthemeaJ, 'which 
formed a very enjoyable part ot 
the meeting, the members' engaged 
In an. open discussion of- variola 
topics-of current interest, such- 
Csrnegie Tech's records/ prospects, 
Campus Weeks and the like.
A short business meeting __
beld for the purpose of devising 
¦ways and meano for making thi 
Chicago Clan a large, active ant 
growing organization In our chain 
of clans. -Five members were ele 
ed to act as a directors' board 
reorganize and build up the cli 
This board Is composed of tbe fol­
lowing: C. J. Copley, J. Ni
T. D. Wheeler, I. L. Hertzmas E. Bergland.
Tbe board met after dinnei decided upon steps of reorgs tlon. A permanent mailing ad­dress at 536 Wrlgley building, Chi­cago, wob chosen.. Tbe cleu wUl have (ts own stationery, and pleas to send out bulletins regularly all, known alumni In the Cblcogoct. Anot' dimmeelln
I Chicago Clan thanks H. B.
Students—Alümm
Can You Afford to
Guess!
the GREATLY VARY­
ING COSTS of a simi­
lar life policy In differ-
lability
» that c
raluea, ..options. and flexibility "! provisions; Investment history, of company,Moment reputation,'mortality history,'you and physical condition are eome of the otl Into complete analysis. •
Do you have time'or facilities to. make a complete study?
DON’T GUESS—CONSULT US 
Lynn E. Exline, '09 Gilmore L. Tilbrook, '15
Herman Hoopes, Inc.
INSURANCE SURETY BONDS
ANY KIND 
ANY PLACE
Beal- Estate Trust Building Philadelphia 
„ , Making People SUBS Since 1893
Graduated From C&raegie la' 
1917 CvnegiA Alunni 
At® Acton.
Frederick McConnell, the Aral 
student in .the Drama. Dorartmoni 
to receive an M. M. degree, has 
made a remarkable reputation for 
himself, as director of the Cleve-. 
land Playhouse In Cleveland,\Ohlb. He graduated from Carnegie . In... • jjypjjjg ^ 9uccpfl^|ng
organim-;rouicountry for Its ability.
•About eight years ago McCon- ell bad. a. small group of am«
feeslonals and 
acaled tbe heights in the world of drama. The. new “little” theater opened in the early pan of April of (his year, giving as its opening 
play “The Jest.'" Tbe theater it­self was designed by Frank Dran, a graduate of the architectural de­
partment at, Carnegie. Associated with McConnell, either as actors or In some technical lloe, are sev­
eral other Tech graduates, namely, Curl heed, Russell Collins, Elmo Lowe and Mas Elsenstall.
McConnell, while In . Carnegie, was president of tbe Drama De­partment, secretary of the Design Student Body, was on the Tarian staff and Thistle Board. Ho has 
divectoiV 63 plays in sis years/some of his actors performing more thaa 650 times in some 60 roles. At liis tneater. may be seen plays which aie not to be found el6C-
Experls who have seen the the­ater claim it to be the best of its i.vre in the world. It was built at d cost of $325,000, money being
; regular and one studio size, I a special ligbtiDg board. It is yet running on a j>aylug basiB, it is essentially a' theater for
Hniio&l- and Other Entertain 
ment On Program.
m preparation. ,____________ regular
monthly luncheon, which' will be held at the William Penn Hotel this,-Satunlay, the .committee of 
the Pittsburgh Clan. baa planned somo special entertainment . ¦ to take the place of the usual short 
speeches.
Inthe first place, It has beenar- ranged so that those ’ present ^ylll be able to Indulge In all the old Carnegie Tech' songs •: and yolls. This will' add' considerably. >to'the- splrlt of the affair,- and will not take any special effort.on the.part of the members ot the clan.
19ZO: ENGINEERS
. Listen! '.Science ’SO re-unes on the 12th, 13th and 14th of May.The, class with class!
; ;.The ,816111.. oM -,dasn that, flour- ished'whea' the' prlfie of admission did. not Include a raccoon coaL 
The' dear old class of Science *20 that Charlestoned Its day down the slippery boardwalk to Science school some. times slipping and 
collecting slithers- 
The grand ofaj ciass tbat thinned Ita' hair and its' trouser seat study­ing before balloon trousers came 
the stress on the
¦ page, '
If -the members 60 signify,-other brain., 
songs will be added. | • Ob .boy! Wolta class!!
other entertainment, pro- there ever such? (Sure» but i
Wai
CLAN NEWS
.PHILADELPHIA,
Dear Philadelphia-Alumnus:We had -a very successful meet ig on March 19th, with 76 poopte venty-slx of Philadelphia’'and high t i from3 dir-irent high schools ihools in the districts. In addition I the-football and. campus, movies Irector, Jewett, of thè College of Industries; “Buddy” Overend,'grad-'
bably musical, is being arranged. If possible, the Margaret iMnnSt Stringers will be on hand. 1 Stringers are a permanent campuo organization, and Quite well knowi thought better, however, t nost.of the detatls. secret; however, any suggestions ft clan members will be-very- wel­come. Call Jack Beatty at ployment Bureau out at school and tell him what your ideas ere.
From reports about school h< this luncheon will be a faculty af­fair as well as alumni, for a larger number of the faculty bare signi­fied their Intentions of attending than at any before. President Baker himself will be present, eo that if any of the local alumni wish to meet him or any of tbe faculty, this luucbeon will be very oppor-
Tbe VMorlson and Arts are urged to eitlent this time, since they have not give: their full support to those In the
earning Campus Week, bring them along, as Campus Week Is only week off. Plans for Campus Week and tbe like will probably ]
Remember, it’s at 1:00 o'cli Saturday, ion the seventeenth ft of tbe William Penn. Hotel, t the price is one dollar, if ; 
have missed the other two lunch­eons, you missed something worth-
japtala of last
many Eastern alumni have made arrangements to drive .¦ to Pitts­burgh for the celebration May 12. '13 and -14. We are., pfenning ran auto caravan from -the East-. Can we count on you? -Nbtlfy^mtf at (Continued' on Page Sis.)
Complete Information for 8th Càmpüs Week
our reservation blai edlatelyt.. . c covering the full.
Sho<
Alumni .1
»aid i
aturday, Ma;
ruber of t
and Campus Week i the Cùmoua Wêék 
. Alumni Federation
) P. M., Hotel Schenley—$2.00 e 
Campus Week Show- Seats limited to f< enclose other alur First floor—$1.75.First Five Rows, First Balcony—$1.75.First Balcony—$1.50.Icorty—31.00.reservations^ must be-made, directly to-the D< of Women.' pate. BOe jfor night.ith Margaret Nuttall for Woman’leketB.
Mardi Grat And.t__«i’tFerg«t: Register upon your jters, the Trophy. Room, in. the Gym.
eüpccl
With KISSEL-SKILES
RENT-A-CAR SERVICE
You Are Sure to Enjoy Your -CAMPUS WEEK ACTIVITIES
6107BROADSTBEET 
Hiland 1300
-‘VISIT TOUE NEAREST STATION 
666 SIXTH AVENUE '
Grant 1900 : W -
126 SEVENTH AVENUE 
. : Atlantic 4666
it paid lo hysterldze about the LeC 'em tire , their own tonsils tell­ing about themselves).
Snip, snip, snip, snip, snip, Father Tima’s grandflapper has shortened her gown seven since/we wore ours. Long she.shorten!
And-1- old friendships, as on life,, throwchock up our 1< the bull and ha'
When you simply . say Science you immediately think of be who figure out that sunlight spinach are good for you eo < permit the sun to shine. And whon you say 20 you haven't said much put them both itber—Science 20—and you vens all the way around.
elthi
> up I12th, 13th or. 14th and say proud­ly,. “Science 20.)’ You have as good'aB made, an oration. Stop right there! Hundreds will thump you o'u the back and nominate you for aoy presidency you wish, be­ginning' with Silent. Cal’e job and working up.
And—should you walk down to the Civil Engineering club room, that cozy little dump around corner, at 4 o’clock Saturday after­noon; rap on tbe door and then 
say Science 20—not too. loudly, of course, since the Magee Hospital is only about a mile away—then you will have pulled off a regular Alladtn and his djln act. •’ The door will aromatically open' and you will be spirited away.
.Yoar, year, year, year, year, year, year. Seven of ’em-gonel 
And now we re-unlte, 12, 13 and 14. Multiply-by two, subtract by-four anil by twenty and what do you get? (No slide rules to be'lised). A prize will be given at C. E. club on Soturday, 4 P. M.„ for, the closest answer. “Pop” Thayer will be judge.
allies. NoNot’dlmb.
.. ., ___ No so­licitation of'funds. No one will try to sell you-anythlngi (All'en­gineers ' selling insurance, please note). ^ It's all in fun, men!' Just like our senior 'banquet, which seems: to have taken place a week ~tei
nightjfj
On'the night of the Mardl Gras —Friday the thirteenth—you can leave your wraps at '•Jack” Beat-, office, room 165, Industrie» building. It will save.'you from dressing in back of flag staff hill * by the lilly pond..
Hero van a few Interesting flff
Puppet BQbscriptlont . will be 
taken for next year at the Regis­tration deaatioarten. ¿uao, past numbers of . the Puppet will be 
available.“ ;
' Tbe cut on made by an alumnus. Eric Zim­
merman. Fi^tt? clever, what?The Campus Squeak,’- Campus 
Woek comic paper» may be ob­tained at Alutsni Hoa^quartors. ' sales-post Will be' maintained near the Grill also.
Most of the faculty will be ._ hand- Campus ^eek.; Look them
Gilmore Tilbrook, former head of .the.Employment Bureau, will be ot our class complied by Qll-
Number aim married 52. Number divorced 0. Children, 28.. No. smlles for o .minute, boys' 
Several of our. class mates have left us and have, gone to the.same realm now occupied by. the past s^ven years.. They ..are Dale M.‘les- K. Little and Dav Shllladay. We’ll meet them at Grand Reunion.
aftwr the abowrcoUe«i*taty ip«ak- Ins.ln 19S5. u The Kaper of the KUties will 
brine out some new uniforms and new- instruments. Don’t mi« 1L Get tbe' johmp on the ordinary public. . See the bhow .during Cam*, pus Week. Last year's went on the stage and screen. .- .
Doi^t miss the Country. Fair. 
All tbe~fiiaiernltj, 'l»y3/and dorm
teck:-
Red JierrllJ. and Six Billiie.
A good-slsed delegation -is az* 
pected from Chicago. They've rv- • 
organized up there' now. and 'are ' Just rarln* to go.
A few lssues.of the Directory Jo~ sue of the Alumnus are left. If 
-want-one, ask -about It at ' Alumni Headquarters.
r . \The Wsy To Go Jo
Theeatmaivedtektpaeenutms pmcticaUy the run of thv Mp. 
Also lnexpenaivo(838Snp). SvcoBrrandUmvBBarrrTo>ti» (with eoUege credit if deured)
StHOTt OFRBKNmVB, r$S
- England -
BALTIC AMERICA UNEUnion Trust Building *> Pittsburgh.
Without a stop!
Surely and swiftly the preference 
for natural tobacco taste is trav­
elling right across the country 5
Id no other dgarette do ’ 
men .find such natural- 
ness of caate and chaeac- . 
ter—and what» after all* 
can be better than that?Chesterfield
'yet, they're areD
Liggbtt St Mybrs Tobacco Co.
ßAmerican Gas
What it is~Vihjot it is doing for American Industry **
The-object of the American Gas Association is to promote more and better ways of utilizing gas ;
—to assist the industries of America (and the public, as a whole) in deriving-to the fullest the numerous advantages inherent in gas; ..
—to advance to the highest efficiency, methods of gas srfanu- factiire, distribution andutihzation;
to collect.and disseminate information on these subjects.
The American Gas Association wos oiganizecl in 1918—and con­
solidated with the American Gas 
Institute, and the National Com­mercial Gas Association.
The membership includes 551 Gas Companies, 21 Holding Com­panies, 423/Manufacturers of gas. 
burning appliances, and 3,444 In­dividual memberships. Its activ­ities , and interests extend to 
every state in the Umon.
The sales of gas for the year 1926,. officially reported to the Amer- • ican Gas Association, amounted , to 38 biUion cubic feet more than
the amount sold in 1925. This is -twice the increase ui 1925>.over 1924—making a total increase of •40% in the last five years.
This phenomenal increase in the use of gas is largely due to the growing demands from indus­trial customers. <¦ The American Gas Association has recently ap­propriated half a million dollars . -for research work and develop­ment of the industrial gas heat­ing business.
Write to the American Gas Asso­ciation for mformaUon on-what gas is doing for others in; your line of business. s .
American Gas Association
420 Lexington Avenue, New York City
YOU CAN DO IT BETTER WITH GAS
iHÜMlÆ
tsÊËSÿ,

---------------------------------------------------

«Ùcb eliminates F. A. trot finals. 'On Friday of last week the 'Gophotnorfs -.-• and ; /jimlor*Seolor< teatmplayod. the latter winning by à ¿core ot 3L against the other 
teams' . 27 . points.x The entJ gome was-w«]l matched and i biting.- The roBt of. tneeUimi dons will takeplace tile¡week.; f. The teams were'composed ol the 
following -girls :. Freshmen—36/ 
Blttehhouse .Elnhelsteln ------
(EllisDramhlller ......
^rlstafek ......
Junlor-Senloi
Clark .......Hanley.......
é Arts—19... J. Willson 
.E. Willson . Martheni____ Hnllck.Henning ... F. Bright
SorrlcS.Belgier
..... H. Hanna - Sophomores—31 Roy
.......G. Conner
H. Bright ...,M. A. Bright ........ Acdpltei
Had it
been f©V,tblsP\the time would Uabiy nave been five to ten onds faster.was made up. of Fin- gJes, Hugbea.Pecfc, and .Crawford. 
These men, together with Lockard, mate, au<T Wild, manager, let: Pittsburgh Thursday evening, and
Carnegie, has now won this e»eal iur times out ot the last flve »are, losing last year to Georgia ifs1n-3:28.2-5, CoachHalferty 
ell pleased with Ucularly. with. Jim Hughes, who. 1« In his first year ot varsity compe­
te (n 15
__ had dlffl-
cult schedules and fired againstof the best teams In the coun-• of lndlvlduftl_med- should
Last , Saturday, in 'the Carnegie »owl, the plèbe thiniles swamped Schenley ' HIgb track
hea'
; of 79-27. Heai
i the 1 
K those agai
LEARN TO DANCE
Jacqaes School of 
Dancing0OmrJ mj’ “”O.uk STS. 
Beginners Monday and Fri­day Evenings. Advanced. Thursday and Ssturda Evenings.by appointment ~1ayflowr 7801
. Uni’ Turtle. Creek tho week befor«
Church of the Ascension_____'(Episcopal) -
"CorT Ellsworth and Neville
H. Boyd Edwards, Rector : 
E. L. Tiffany, Associate Rector
Student VeBper Service Sunday, 4:30 . p. >m. Boy.- Choir. Special fG.r2S
DI Kennedy, Ashwell, Leslli, Galey, Mui good work for the fresh; while 
Symons, Lewis, and Stanton gai red most of the points for. thi Itore. Next weekend, the plebe im treks to'Indiana Non Js meet, the first formidable sement of the year for the y< gs, will be followod by a n with the strong Pitt Ireebi rack team on May 14. Summa 
>t last Saturday's meet are .. lows:lOtt-yard deeh — Kennedy. Ashwell, C.; Stanton, S. TI10.7 seconds.
220-yard dash — Kennedy, Boyle. S.; Fisher. S. Time:
440-yard dash — Ashwell, Snyder, c.; McFai-lio, S. TI
55.8 secondB. 'Mile rim—Leslie, .C.; McCoi C.; Hubbard, C. Time: 6 mini 29 seconds..
120-yard hurdleo—Lewis, S.; Farli’n, C.; Stanton, S.. -Time:
. li.O^yofd-low hurdles—Lewis, McFarlln;.'C.; Klocko,. C. Tl
relay—1Cofnegle, first: indi • Time: 3 mio
In Later Life
• Four-lan 
9‘cherilejv utes. 22.2-eeconds.Broad Jump-M3o.ley,- C.;- Brow: C.;. Miller, C. Distance:: 18' fes 7 inches.'High : JumpM^FaTlin,.. C Brdwn, C., and Kirkpatrick, S., tie for second place. Helght:5 feet, 5 Inches.Pole vault — Miller. C.; Downs, 
Height: 0 feet,
ils and trophies.Jie season, and-the varsity •eived a beautiful cup from the NaUonal Rifle Association.
Some of iJarnegle’s succeBs caa 
be attributed to the f6Ct that the ige and eciolpment 1b among the 
best In the country. The present__. ; built last year.
r. located in the basement of the Margwet Monlaoa building, ,There 18 places for firing, and each 
of these have trolleys by which the targets can be changed ' without lag the firing line. The targe
inlty
for. firing. Some of the 1 . chools that the plebes wished latches with, were’unable to hi more than a varsity team, because of Ia<?k of range facilities. Much 
of the credit for thli ven to the late Captain Lyons, ho started 'the rifle te ielr present ancceBS.
The Carnegie range Is equipped Itli a dumber of -22.callber mus­kets which are available for prac­tice and lor beginners.
The officers of the R. O. T. Ci. are to be commended for their 
valuable assistance to. the rifle teai thoysuccess. Lieutenant Arrowsmith ok part of ,.tbe burden- of handling the plebe team, due to 
the fact- that no. plebe manager was appointed. Manager Swead- ner not only had the duties of var­sity manager to take caro of, but alBo had to act os'plebe manager with the help of Lieutenant Arrow­smlth, besides firing on the varsity
' W. D. Campbell, A. M. Fisher and -Leo Kasehagen: III were of 
great assistance In coaching the
CATERING
Prices Reasonable
\ That cur Refreshment 
Entertainment is moat : 
arable for Fraternity and 
9 all other School Affaire, 
experience, will convince.
Small orders receive the' 
same -careful attention as.. 
the mor-e: eltravagantl-
10 Inches Shot Fut—Syni. S.; Griffiths,
(Continued i-From Page Flv Herman .Hoopes, Inc.,-'.1620 Ileal e Trust-Building,. when
on Saturday night, May 21, ably at the Arcadia, anc !• per usual; While some •alion has- been given t Annual for this year, owing t
the formal fun< tlon. However, special efforts will 
be-made to bring out the Phila­delphia Clan as well as visitors from the other C Ing of May 21st. further notices concerning this meeting, but in the meantii
lartTord, Coi, ClaiOn April s8, 1927. Dr. Roscoe:M. Ihrlng,: director of General Studies at Carnegie, •visited Hartford, Conn', tn ’connection with the "Col­lege Choosing Day" of tie Han­ford Public High School. During
of- which- Mr.' Kenneth --M; - Fin!a3 is president, at a. luncheon at thi Hotel Bond. About 14 Camegli Ahunnl were, présent Afler thi luncheon 'there 'was- a 'general dis­cussion of affairs at CArnegle, rem­iniscences- of undergraduate, days on. the. old campus. An Interesting- ¦cUm'Qi iwna reached - whetr one: hap­
pily'disappointed alumnus reluct­antly. confessed that^he had bet on Notre Dame.
THE ANNUAL INTER-SCHOLASTIC TRACK MEET wll! take ace on Saiturday. About seventy schools are expected ,to‘compete i the classic, representingyear, sixty schools -men competed * shown by thecompeted for hoi
Vlrgli
itbletea, for
That the metlist, which contains schools ir.om Ohio, West id Maryland, as well L. from Pennsylvania. Certainly» It Carnegie to make a good Impression on these scbool-boy of them are right now trying to decide at. which
An'innovation thli Saturday evening.
ier to be tendered the boys on _ which they will be presented with their medals affair, "properly handled, shoiild make a deep impree-
: TENNIS TEAM'. failedwith Bèthany aad.W. & J: beli condition of thé courts, dufc the week- VOi ‘ ‘
. get started last week, matches lOBtDbned on account of tho »eather of the early paithe match with Grc
which to base hie decliopener. And. with but theHojLvei ng Thiat Washington, D. /C... then j
¦ecbrd for- the week e
bave been ployed yesterdoy t from all classes.- The next match i Week, also between picked all-star I
-obably be during Cai
Intra Maral Champions
............Pi Káppa Alpina
can League) Phi Kappa 
igue) Alpha Tau Omega 
eral Leagua). Sigma Nu 
i Leagues) Kappa Slema
........Beta Theta.PI
.................Kappa Sigma
Glrle athletics have had lnteiestlng and ooccesaful yeai Competition baa been strong In all fields and the . girls of both-Art School and Margojet Morrison. Col­
lege have shown enthusiasm.’ Rifle, shooting, which is the only Intercollegiate sp'brt engaged in by 
the girls -or' Carnegie Tech,__^ _ _iaged by Ruth Dawson.Out of 16 matches tbq. girls lost but 
three, and* these by _iarglns; • The Camegle .'tean placed fourth in thevNatlonal Rifle Association Intercollegiate match in which 11 girls' teams were en­tered. As a result, nine members 
•i the Carnes?** team were awardefi percentage medals by the N. R. A. The girls who received the medals Ruth Dawson, Jean Roy, Florence.'Shapiro, Alice Bright, Wyman, Barbara Renwlck, 
.Helen Bright. LucUle Servlck, and Eunice Clark. In tbe Triangle match between the Carnegie-Tech 
varsity, the plebes' and the girls’ teams, the girls were^ only three points behind the varsity men who -on the match..Swimming was the first inter- lass sport of the year and was lanaged by Evelyn Goldenson, jember of tbe Women's Athletic issoclatlon Board. The Maxgi lorrlson Plebes captured I ¦lace in the championship a and the Fine Arts team came second. Tbe M. M. Sophomores md Junior-Senior team won third tnd fourth places'respectively.A great deal of Interest was
Gertrude Zenk ' member in charg« After sbt weeks ot practice'during October and No- 
trember, four girls having tbe high- Bat scores during tbat'tlme w chosen from each class in Margt Morrison to compete In the ti rfbe scores of tbe toui
the W.
<tA bottle full of
\old shower tingle
I
IKE the thrill of a cold shqweri-rhat’s 
^ how Aqua Velva hits the newlyshàven "
face. This new after-shaving liquid ofWilliams helps the skin to retain its needed. , 
natural moisture. After, a shave with 
Williams Shaving Cream it keeps that ,.v , 
spleifdid Williams shaven feeling-all day 
long. In big 5-ounce'bottles, 50c.* V
WilSiains
FresVim. 994
icbes in the Unlted^Stntcs, be/
'¦ The.-' Carnegie of all-inow. men exception'.Of on
for.seveiài inai nlng óf the :
wall -in tbelr oply shoiildoi shoulder match, wblch Is the U difficult for men with little, ex]
W. Va. University Fyesbm
INTERSCHOLASTÍC 
TRACK MEET SAT.
varsity consisted,4^474- this year wlth;the Cent’ . letter man from 493-
rare UniverBlty. freshmen, 
•al H. S., Weeh., tí' -C., 496-
bls -auto accident, and was. handlca] ped . > throughout- the ;year by IhlB accident ’ The team had to limp through the.eight matches of the' fl^Bt semester with two reserve men and .tbe remnants of the fresh­man. tea.m from, .the previous year. Only one of these eight matches were l0Bt, and that by only 14 points, ,to a team that rated six
à H. S., Wash., D. .C.'r,.497-476. 
• ! Virginia P. I. Freshmen', 497-488.' Eastern H.ß., Wash., D. C.¿491*475.U. Naval Academy Freshmeu, 
990-980.
t through iüéliglbility.
University Freshmei
Te University Freshmen, 
i H. S.; Wash.,, D. C., 1844-
i U. Freshmen, 1844-1647. University Freshmen,
1886-1849._ _ _ . Cincinnati- Unlv«
. Campbell the best ' Forfeit.Klskl (shoulder 
D44-631.The plebe team '
.1740
HARMONY
CREAMERY CO.
Quality Supreme
DAIRY PRODUCTS
CHOCOLATE MILK 
Nutritious
Delicious
Refreshing
Gettysburg ....;_____... 4 . .2
Dresel Institute I-.. ..^ 3 •' .3Nysea I^lfle Club..;... 2 :{4‘Lebanon Valley ......,1 ' 5V. M. I. 1 ¦S'
The results.of the season were: Carnegie. .185(i^West.ern; MdJ.1847 Carnegie..1375—Amherst ..,:1268•Carnegie.. 1876—M. I. T........1822'Carnegie3,876—R. P. I...... .170b'Carnegie.. 1859—W. Va. .....1828,Carnegie.. 1875-^Gettysburg .'.1827 Carnegie: .1875—Lehigh ......1767Carnegie. .1875—John Hopkins. 1889 Carnegie. .1893—Georgetown il898 Carnegie. .1403—Gettysburg ..1366Carnegie. .1399-^-M. I.-'T........1378Carnegie—1889—DennleoiCarnegie..1407—V.'Mi: I.............Carnegie..1398—Leb. Val. Forfeit
Carnegie.: 140J—Drenel ......',1373Carnegie. .1407—N. R. C.......1040Carnegie. .1392—Penn- State .;1404Carnegie..1392—Pitt ............1368
Carnegie, .3790—Nebte.ske.’. - .:3734 • The varsity was -unfortunate not receiving , word, ’ of the ' date for-* the-' National Intercollegiate matches- held-in New^-York! until too late,to enter- a. -team. ,-ThIs ¦match was won by a Bcore Qf;13: out of lBpO. Carnegie would ha' 
bad a good chancy .to have W( this If a^team had;Veen sent :. The plebe team also had a very successful season. . They .won .nearly all their- matched, which ii 'Quite a record, considering the f;
ras defëated by: ïshmen; 500-497. Academy, 1Í97-
m North, from South, from 
and from th ing tbe closing strains of months of Intense • training—training am preparation’ for a contest wher< icets. state, ' where school school, where spirit .mi high, where records in the wdr] high school track events ai it. certain to be broken. Mu 1 being worked into the trli of perfection^ nerve bolng wbette to al-keeri edge, pace and race b' Bet— everything Tunning as joth and as fleet as t)io shoi ribered'remaining day^ between present and tbe elevent' Interscholastic Track Mes
And all this while the plans for- iceptlon, entertainment, and the jmpetiUon; of the hear thousand athletes are beine'- run through their final ’ shadingofficials
and the various rorking-ove and physically—1 estlng reception, a well-ind elaborate entertainment
Competition in basketball this year was unuaually keen although the turnout was not particularly large. Lucille ' Servick, member ioi the W; A. A. Board wbb in charg« of this activity. Basketball prac tices wer^ held during December January and February. . When tht tennis were chosen at the end ot February, RoBamond Marthens w made Fine Arts captain. Ma Anne Drumhéller, Fre'shmnn ce tain; Dorothy Roy, sophomore 91 tain, and Lucille .Stervlck ai Eunice Clark, Junior and Sen! ceptalns of tho combined Junli Senior team. The M. M. Sophs captured- the championship title this year as they did the year be­fore. : .—• . _-.-i
: Tl^e annual gymnasiu'qi.ftihlbitlon was held -the first' part of April.' The Freshmen and Sophòmorea of 
Art School and'Margaret'-MorfiBon. were represented In thè exhibition in which about 90 -girls partici­pated. The girls-displayed their ability in drill, tactics,..and appar-'
takinge — mentally
To55 .schools ha-ivltatloiThir¿
H. S., Wash., D. C.,
1916-1887.
cups wei^e donated by Ma­jor Taylor at the beginning of 
e season to-the highest man and ¦ highest woman, In a special- 
tch for all those who bad: never id'before on. a '’Carnegie team. -Catherine Boyd, a freshman in Margaret Morrison College, ' jwon: the'one cup, and- Leo-Kasehagen third, a freshman In Science school won the other cup.
'’Kasehagen also won a medal for 
eighth place out of about 76 In the National Intercollegiate individual matches, with a score of 688 out of 600: " Some Lot the beBt shots In Various colleges' throughout. Uie United States competed in this match. He received a' bronze medal for paving the third highest 
.score. in-ithe ¦ third-Coipa^Area-R. O*. T. C.: Intercollegiate match 
aiso'V°n'-A'’^n^: 22-callber Winches* ter rifle which belonged to the'late' Captain-'L^ons,"whose requeat waa that.it ,be -given to the highest Car» negle toian'in .the. K ' O. T. C. En­gineer match'this year.•, W. D.; ' Campbell won a silver medal for having tlie second high­est score :ln tho third Corps Area Intercollegiate' R.. O. t: :c: match. He also broke the School kneeling .record by maklng a possible score *hat last year was the first season , ok 100 in one of the1 varsity for ©.plebe rifle team atvCarriegie. matches. •Matiy'hard teatna were scheduled,' and .evrch etrong teams .as Uj S Naval': Academy 'freBhmen'7shd' "the tTniversIty - of, Cincinnati freB.hmei were defeated. • In, several of ;tfie
for •'] . _
available- from- this year’s 'plebe team/-\The captain'-of the plebe, 
team..Won.more Individual.trophies this year 'than any -other member cr .the rifle.teams, • :; .-Att'the beglnnlngVof the second „-semestert -a. -number' of--th«' meir ’.withdrew, ¦ and- others, cam).- oat to- .taker-their placec. Among - ¿hete new- meir.war 3cB.' Ltppertra'flnd* ofvC. C/Park, one of the vanlty coaching.' Lippert.QB0i(
ThTS'VeW^t«*» jAttf.eic«ptionallr
M. Fisher,' high 
varsity rifle team iMS; season,vwtt tlected -Captain •' 'of next /year’i team^at a recent meeting .Of'thli year’s letter men. Fisher will be a junior in Co®mercUl Engineer ing next year, and is quite' capable of leading the team. He has had 
previous experience^ and' is ^well liked by'all .those connected with the. rifle': t«am.; - ' : ¦
R..O. r. C..TO HOLO REVIEW'. 'IN HONOR OF DR. OAKER
Cáraefele.baitalloñcolora. viewy ot. the . battalion will start near Forbes street and. proceed toward „Langley- Laboratory^ and
sponded to the teen schools from Ohio have tered, one from - Maryland',' f from West Virginia, and 37. fi Pennsylvania. Approximately 1,000 partly ' orwholely, the-week-end. 1 Taken eerldusly, such as an interscholastlc gieet, where -the best-of'prospects c nearby dtie3 and states are gatl ered, can be easily utilized as th highest, form of advertising—tht of. personal participation.- and. pe sonal Bollcltatlon. If Carnegie men will only realize tbls, as tbey have done In the years before, work' in close co-operation- with' the officiate; of tbe’-meet, anothe step in the advancement ot Cai negle will, hfive been reached.The meet begins Saturday morr ing, at 10:30 a. m. (Daylight Sa\ Ings Time) and continues until all events have been rui day will be aproprtately ended by dinner given to all tbe partiel-
the meet will be anno'unc< the cups .will be presented.As In the-years before, the hous- Ing.'of the visitors. is the urgent problem.. Approximately; 380. ath­letes will need’ accommodatloi for Friday night Tbe donnltorJc are capable of handling quite number,..yet,many o.f the fellow.* are lacking asslgnm< fraternities are asked to contriV thelr spare beds for that night r the jonifrom the fraternlLies heretofoi has been wholehearted—hnd it hoped , that Friday night,- May will •• find every, visitor comfortably- and pleasantly located—a guest of Tech hospitality. Communlcatlone concerning, any-phase of . the mis should be addressed, to the mi 5 Sigma Nu
panies.
. In the staff and, on the 
Ing stand .tW honorary-; cadet of­ficers >ho were/elected last No­vember will occupy places of-h« or. • The girls who, were chosen 
by the R. O. T^C.: students are: Ruthi Dawson,- honorary, cadet' nía- 
Jar;. Betty¿McíVddén.. Jean -ROy, MarJorie Sajtdgraai.and.' Charlotte Wardale, honomiy cadet captains By special-arrangement,- the last •ehednled àrìu of the. schooi ye^r
event the same ae in. the other. athietlCB;.
. Volleyball is now well under jvay and Is being managed by SallyHulick------" • -Three School t1 thé tipleléd this woëk! The glrle have- been -practicing every 
noon for the last two 'weeks, and are, showing considerable interest.Baseball, tennis, and archery will begin this week or next,'and. It is ¿spected that there, wlll -be numerous candidates for these.pop­ular Spring • npona. . Rosamuàd 
Marthens, in charge of baseball, Is .hoping to make’; up some hard-bali teams this year." The. tennis sin- glès tournament ia: under the'dire<> tlon; of Gen Connors, W. . A.’ . A. Board member.; Lillian Swabeck, 
also a member . of the . board, - Is .managing, archery. '
• Silver cups WU1‘be presented to ¦* 1. winning' teams In .'swimming,
AContinued .tron^-Pige One) to obuin? a-complete-list, of the orchestras ae niany.of the frater­nities have not as yet. obtained a definite engagement with any or- .chestra.-'- However, It- can ’be' as­
sured .that each house will havè a good orchestra. . Last yeai , some 
of the best Jazz< bands, in the ae<s Won were on the. càmpus for the migratory. . ¦ >
The following id the list of the addresses of the various houses as Indicated In the, màp-betow - / 
Acacia,-'807 Mlilvale; Alphai sig-^ ma Phi, 6601 Wilkins, Alpha Tau Omega, 436 Neville; Beta Sigma Rho. 6437- Aylesboro; Beta Theta PI, 6649 Forbes; Delta Mu, 1655 
Shady ¿venue; . Delta Phi Delta, 5031 Bayard; Delta Tau Delta, 630 Clyde; .Delta UfraUon, E035 Forbes 
v8treet;‘..Kappa;®Sgnia, .624 - Clydè; Kappa, stgma:,Rió; 444 Ambè^onf Phi Kappa; 47v42 Center,; Pi Kappa
.PhI Kàppa PsI, 4817 Center;. Slgtiit .Alpha Epsilon, 481&' FdrbeB; SIgmff Nu, 4921-. Forbes.; Slgma'lPhlr.BpsI- Ion, 4829 r Forhes; -TheU- XI,‘'801T
i .will, be/omitted ^for .thoke shidkñts'1 _
. wbo particJpate la the Preaident’s Pïecodlng ' Campas KTeeL
r CLOTHES
iNtet teOrdsr 
rSTABeISHrD rNGeISH UNIVrRSITY, 
STVeCB,TWeOBrO OVrR. VOUTHfUfe 
CHARTS SOereV FOR DieTINOUISHrO 
SrRVIOS iN THr ÜNITrI» STATrS.
Suits arid Topooota
»4O,*4S,'S0
=
W BV SPECIAL. RPPOM7MÉNT ~i 
\ : OUR STQSiE-iS THE . J
J
OP PITTSBURGH 
The character of the suits and 
topcoats tailored hy Charter House 
will earn your most sincere liking.
7p4A7nN*NXyD2$4lThe' Men’s Store of' Eaut LibertyT
Where dependability is vital
TN connection with a new pumping station at itlilwaukec,
• Wisconsin, additional feeder mains were required* It was 
necessary that one of these should carry, an unusually large 
proportion of th< Water supply, and 54*inch pipe M-. decidcd : 
upon. Although-pipe of material other than cast iron Jiad a - 
lower first coat, Ga tlronPipc-wascho en bccause the possibll* 
ity of interruption to service had to be reduced to a minimum* - 
The photograph above shows a section of pipe being lowered - 
into the ditch in the process of laying it.
CB4I07X3 rlLn 9Dy4 9G.eD2D3K &Gl47GI Peoples JXV BUg.Chiogo 1
ŒSTIBIB PIPE
- urn. : 9fnth eenrs tht I»4 for IndujirUI^ Sfrclcr, '¦¦¦•ing iiuieJU/wtf.tf
I-

---------------------------------------------------

PROGRAM
Plebe Soph Baseball Game Thurs, 3 30 P M 
Varèity-Westmmstei Tiack Pii 3 00 P M Varsity-Alunun Tennis mor»-. • >*
IuteiÑclass Lac Asée
SSSSSSSSSSSSSSSSSSSFS A'Sat., 10.30;A. M. 
Tentative
First Church of? Christ, 
ScientistGlyd. SIreat,'Near'Fifth Avenu® Sunday, ll'A. M. and 8 P.. VL.. V Wednesday. 8 P: Ml.-/ ¦ Sondo? làchòol, 11 A. M.
Mother^
¿MAY. 8th ,
order, with assortileicked to 
Chocolates and
la V; B. PACKAGE—An as­
sortment of.. Reyihere'.Very 
Best Chocolates, $1.26^ the 
pound. ' :
BEST ASSORTED — Choeo- 
lates and Bon Bonsj $1:25 the
239 Fifth Avenue 
Oliver Building 
Jenkins Arcade
(ContinueauTom Page Onej played for the Men’a Senior Ball, ad. the Ramblers also played for the' annual Military. Ball of the 
University ol West. Virginia this season. Both groups have, bad much experience at numerous lege, functions Uiroughout this part of the country.
Elaborate decorations for both halls have been planned and will 
be carried out well, in-advance ot the Merdl Gras program. These will be in close keeping with the 
general theme of the Campus Week perlo’d. In connection with this It has been announced that costumes will be required of all tbose In at-; tendance, and a suitable regalia 
WU1 be essential-for admittance as the C. W. tags. Checking conces­sions have been granted for both the Union and the Gym for venieoce of the dancers.
The Campus Week committee has also wished the mattor en phaslMd that, as last year, ther will be absolutely jjo parking pei milted on the campus on either Thursday or Friday evenings di ing the spring celebration. This
it in former ÿeare, causing nndue congestion at the end of t evening.
' The Mardi Gras will jast trom tlll-1 «‘«loch.
i3 are students at Ohio State Ui verelty. .Of the 13 pageB tht house eight -are Ohio iState under
•ROSENBAUM'
StftbXlberty-Pam Pittnbargh’s Shopping Center Phone Atlantic 4SOO
Iniwraig (Üluí^a
tlLORED AT FASHION PARK 
Î YOUNG COLLEGE FELLOWS
Priced $40, $45, $50 to $75
SEASON OPENERS
Weather conditions during the ist week forced the postpone- ent of the - two opening- matches 
a the varsity -toqnls schedule. These' matches," with .Bethany and W. and Jl,'have been postpoped to some future -date. Thus far, ih< teams has had but one opportunity 
for outdoor-practice and beci of this face, no' definite team as yet been picked. How« with several returning lettermeo, Conch Hoover will surely be able round into shape a team' equal
tETlCS-'PRtfGRWl 
VERY ATTRACTIVE
of HaVry Widom, Is leaving, noth* 
lng undone to feature the athletic events of the gala week.
What promises to become a tra­
dition of the school Is the first an­
nual baseball game to be played between' tlie Piebe and Sophomore 
classes. Tbia event has Deen giv­en pressure^-due to the'ifact.that it 
Is being Introduced' tor the first time. If It Is a-, successful, project, there Is no doubt but that It. will become a yearly event. The team: being organized and much epli
Tartan defenders.
The Plebes, in preparation fbi their opening match with TurtleCreek, have been worklng out It Is being aroused ami
daUy In the gym. So far. only one dent body.' The game Is scheduledcut" has been made In thu squaidi to take place immediately after the 
and-, from those on the temporary Qualification exercises. Dr. 'Wm.
¡quad, a team will be picked ' this I Marks., popular 6Cbool physician
’ Tennis will again be one of the Campus Week features. Three matches have been arranged^ with Bethany, Notre Dame, and the
>y's cancellation, Bethany will 9 an unknown quantity. Notre e has been making a good 
lng so* far this season while tho Alumni should at least put up
i h*BWeek
log excellent backing and with tho full support of the school, can be :pected to turn in three victories. Hard opposition will also be met ia week. Monday, the 2nd, Car­negie will be hosts to Grove City. May 6, 6 and 7, the team will make three-day trip invading' George- wn, New York /University, and Penn State. Without a long rest, they will then attack Pitt on Mon­day, May 9. on the home court. This leaves only a two-day rest be- they open the Campus Week s with Notre Dame.
id football coacli, has. been' jred-.to umpire the contest There will be one-varsity tra ieot during Campus Week, that be'against Westminster on Friday afternoon. Coach Gay Halferty le this meet next. Important Intercolleglates, ; the last week of the year.
lacrosse game played. A specific time has not :chednlod as only, lately did cts for an inter-Claes game s promising. It Is likely (hat the game wilt be played
The committee Is doing thi 
st to forge ahead the athletic department of C. W.: events.
SPRING FOOTBALL TO 
END THIS SATURDAY
The yearly Intramural basket- ¦ball competitions were instituted In 19—, and each year has shown a steady growth, both in quality and popularity.
The recent season opened Feb­ruary 8,. there being on an average of 12 games per week, until March 26, after which the elx games of he ^finals were played. The A. T. ).’s and Scohel Hart both forged ihoad In the National League, the Phi Kappas and D. U.’s the Amerl- 
Sigma jvu'e and S. P. E/s the Federal League, and Kappa Sigma and-Henderson E.Cr lead the Central League. As the -progressed it became mere- ntest betweei the two beat in each league. s- 
finals were full of surprises with several -of the teams serious­ly handicapped by injured or ab­
sent players.
< Sigma Nu didn't show up as well In the finals as was expected, al­though Lefler ajid Broden did some
La6t Monday the candidates. for 
fo.otball donned their uniforms fo:tlie annual spring training ses9ioai____. .
:1a began^that evening. Thejof PKtrand’things* looked’mlgbty GRV v— , ... dQj,k for ^ ’Parians;
er, there was never a doubt iplnd of Captain Yoder, for t memorial day he. led his 
¡tory, of
ould ha lost In getting started Monday. The Managers had every; thing in tiptop 'shape and easilly of the large, number that turned out.
first day everything had a bright aspect In the eyes of Coach 
ddell. Five’ complete teams tamed ont but this number was leily handled, with the able as- Islance of Loyd Yoder, Mefort, lanby and Allison. mrrY.LDD was gsis.tant Freebmati coach last fall, 
hilo the others are helping out íe rest of the men in learning to lay their positions. The first two ays were spent in preliminary drill and exercises in order to getlimbered
STANi-EY-DA
SflAM©
irtS-C LARK’S
MANOR.
Wednesday and; Thirrsday May 4 arid 5 ‘Tbomas Meigban in 
“Blind Alleys”
Wednesday ^ndThursday
Tbomas Meigban in 
“Blind Alleys”
FHday'and'SaturdayMilton Sills
MaryAstor“The Sea Tiger”
Marie Prevost^For Wives Only”
- ¦ May MeAvoy^ “Matinee Ladies*’.:. Monday and/tuesday-.^Eed Heads ire£emdMRaymond ffitchcoek Majoiie Daw
.. Mond.y and Tu=sda,
MILTON SILLS ! 
¦ - Mary Astor .“The Sea Tiger”
Although conditions 
were very favorable for the Kappa Sigma victories, It cannot be de­nied that: they had an excellent 
team and fully deserved the cup.At the close of the season all league and all school teams were chosen, which contained the stars of'tbe various teams. Quite a bit of likely basketball material was disclosed and the games served as amusement and ' Instruction to a number, or basketball' enthlslasts. Undoubtedly intramural basket­ball has served Its purpose, that of developing varsity material andt spirit .of eh thu Û sportsmanship and •al rivalry between the v mitorlcs end fraternities
intra-
a the
V step forward from previi .sons was the giving of, a r nentcup to the final wim i ¿mall cups to each league vlc- . As tlie league usually has ar ;esa of money It: la probabli 
that this practice will continue li
e- planning of a board to''controt I intramüral activities, such . as. 
isketball, which Is Tun by >ard composed of representath oni thé various teams. ' This >uld settle idany difflculti;mlng of. in-lake fox
CCHrNerYan d:‘sd‘o n
S TANLB Y-PA VIS-CLARK’S ;
.Evonlngss First- Floor ond ‘ Mananlne .36cBfilcony
THEATER « 'Mczzanln* ..!: i.- i-' *35o;
Direction Stanley Company of . America. Continuous 2 «011. P- M* Most Beautiful' NelQhborhood Theater' In Plttsburflh. ‘
WEDNESDAY AND THURSDAY, MAY 4 AND =“Matinee Ladies”
A7K f2mh”" — MALCOLM McCRECOR
S QlDU7h 7nL k73GlU7KI A7K » 7nUI3Virginia Valli m H. G. Wells “MARRIAGE”
/ . MONDAY AND-TUESDAY, MAY » AN010 . -
“Fashions for Women”
ESTHER RALSTON--RAYMOND HATTON
'areRILEYANDHIr CALIFaRNIA au.* SUWCtST SYHCOPATPIIS WrrK
^ COMEDY i , NÊWà * NOVELTIES. Pléntyirf"P*iWni ßp4ce ; T.
s country. Fr< oks as though next year's sea- will'be even more; successful i the lasL Le it bo hoped Uii keep on improving'each yea s probable that there will* be three leagues next year, which make for more evenly matched leagues and less confusion in tho ichedulee. It would be a welcoi ¡hange.if ilooring boardJwas si itituted for the troublesome*,w’oi eh,block's on the gym floor. ' This.ild holp the Wrslty, plebe and Intramural teanis a great deaV .in theirplaying. '
VARSITY SPWTS
spring sports tnet 
accompany jandfollow.lt; 
to-. revleV’ ^tho - spoils gone;.^before, ; that wemay .have
When,' Coach Waîly Steffen a; sembled; his little, band of follow erB at training camp lost Septen ber the 16th, he realized that i 
this group, he had thé makings c a real team, to go through ^Ui hardest schedule that.'tho Plaid has ever tackled. How«WaUy could visualize the aggre­gation that-he' was. about to ti out,' for Ute other great follow’« of the sport did not eyen think looking towards Carnegie for _ 
team that/couft hold vthe Fighting, Irish '.on their, one-yard line for downs.
The Trl-SUte - champions and holders of-.oatlo'nai renown were a team, of red-jerslod uearcatB, who vwon seven out of nine starts, end had their goal lie« crossed but twice duVlng the . entire season..After- winning tho-usual early struggles with Thiel and Adrian by wide margins', the Sklbos Jour­neyed to Johpetown, where they received their worst setback of the season. Starting oil with a won­derful brand of . football, they worked the ball, down the field 'and across the W. and J. goal line’ in the .first few minutes of play. From 
then on. Lady Luck .went against Carnegie, and breaks went to the Red' and Black, who with the-work of Bill Amos, proceeded to beat; by tho Score of 17 to 7, a team which completely outplayed them.The Pitt ,game, regarded as the high epot of. the season, come bn October 23. The. Pittsburgh papers
ir[5
Irme; li
followthe iweekti a long blackboard drill Waddell in whtch he 
» very valuable informa- 9 hoys' that are expectedcreditable showlninext
"Bob” Waddell says, that ever seen Interest so keen in epring. football practice as. It has' been this season. .The team started very late Iif the year, fortunately , they ran Into per- footbaU weather. The result at many hard scrlmmago sea- i have been held and these been of groat value in de­termining the fitness of certain players for certain positions.
ind Waddell polnl
14-0, over the"-Panther, before packed stadium oi bowling mani­acs,^giving tho City title back to Carnegie for the third time in the last four yieara 
On the following Saturday, tho 
Scotch attached the Univorslty ot Detroit in a sea of mud, and con- quered them lo the tune of 7 to 0. The Plaid margin of superiority was much larger than the Bcore would indicate; the Skibos being unable to use tbelr most effective methods because of the elements.New York' was played at the Yankee Stadium on November o 
beforo a larafge crowd. The team’s- sojourn In the big city was one of the -InoBt pleasant events of the seaeon,- but the game was not. $ue to the lose ot the sorvlceB of Mefort and Engttsb,. and' wearied from three consecutive hard games, 
.the Thrton’s offense was unable to penetrate the .Violet to any great extent However, the Sklbo’a repu­tation was Baved by.our unpene- trabl^. line which held the' opposi­tion acor'elesB. the winning-polnU coming from two field ^ Bottle by. Conor, flashy Violet back. - ¦ ''
Then came .the real lotup, the game' with Juniata on. Armistice Day, which the second team romped away with a 62 to 0 score. The' following Saturday, West ipped into .town to pay and qul^e
(Conttsn^ VTom. Pac*1 Oo*>? '8 p. m. Any student member ot a fraternity Is ¦ eligible, to push,- ex­cept those who havo won lettura in track or cross country. - Cara 
must weigh at' leait 60 pounds, and will be weighed in' on Friday morn­ing of Campus week at 9:46. De­sign , judging takes placo at. 10 o'clock on,th« asme munilng and the. Drat of - the . .three heats will, hear the ptart'ere :,gun-^at: 10:80. The finals will be run on Saturday morning at 11 o'clock, with eight care competing.1
The most linportaut rule change, waa^accepted by the g^eope takes committee, upon, ra^mniendatloh of thu lnterfraterhlty Council,' pro-: vldlng for the splitting of thè In­dustries ' lily, part of. the ;¦ course 
into two laps, Instead of one as" in; former years. Tho entire hill will 
be taken In by thèse two laps, how*' eVer, Instead of two-thirds os bo- fore, thus eliminating 'an. uphill push for the-flual inon. 'Two lines are to bo painted on the course- at - points-of change .of pushers; and judges will be etn: tJoned nt.. each point-to-869 that pushers nre chànged between theèo lines. Naturally, these judges :t be worthy or the confidence 
all fraternities, and the men selected; . Lieutenant Arrowsmlth, Prófeseor'McKée, Mr. Vierhellef, 
ind Mr. Daniele,'bave been unan­imously approved by all concerned.The BtArter will bo -Dr. Marks, 
who has beon practicing faithfully ck meets in tho bowl. 
The /Imers are Cap Dosey, Mr. "*• “ ”lr. Beukema, and DrGriffis. Thè judgos at the finlBh are',ProfeS6or Hower, Al Irwin, Mr^ Moses, and Mr. Trexler.
-The judges at point» of chango have; consented tg.act as jiidges at the weighing in of the pushmoblles, 
which will be curried out in'the [its lab of Machinery Hall,- as In former years.
The time of the races r. much later this year ’ iban In - former 
sars, in order that the pushers ill bff able to recuperate in some measure from . the illverslone of m days—and nights/
cfowa.^ow adorAlsg the collective j Caspa« W*ek.
RAINCOATS FOR MEN AND WOMEN
Men’s, $6.00—Color: Grey.
^omea’s, ?6.BO-;-Golors': Blue, Lilac, Green and; V..:i ; 1 ' .red. : 'Aufhatmner and Evans
6100 PENH AVENUE
WlkemYm
a€ar
For a Special Occasion
hat he does weeks of traildays will
! held at Forbejj Field
i did not
t, no man will be picked for the I .„/fhLr am ne»t year as . rai l „durtnB the»e _t„o|ln thelr _____
felt that the Mountaiueerc ... ... , eiijoy themselves, as theytearing upon the final selections. | tho .fihort enrt o£ a 20 torhe candidates tor next y.ear’a var-! That da_ Donoh^^71n making his
ilty have been working exception-1 s^ond touchdown of the .game
Uy hard- ’ ' — • I displayed what Waliy called th<
- be Temembered that City 
CoileEp beat Syracuse by a 'largo score, and Syracuse defeated Penn decisively, .L this victory ,de* i a place beside that one the Irleh, which' was won earlier in the year. Our series with Pitt deserves more than passive notice, because the Scotch would probably be city champions iw. If It hadn’t been for the super­
human shooting of Reed. . All lo all,'the Plaid did not have as bad ' ird as It would appear on the surface. It must be remembored il'so, that It took the Sklbos more than usual; to got'Into form, and after they did hit their stride ^'accomplished much. 
Carnegie's prestige in.the swim- lng world has. been growing iteadily, and now at the completion____.« second year of'competition,Carnegie begins to rank up'with ther teams of the. Tri-State District. The Mermen have held sets with Notre Dame, Wodster d Thiel, winning the meet with Thiel. The-team is showing re­markable improvement as time on, and without doubt will' be i stronger next year, becaui of several swimmers from ar's.Plebe team, and .some ntial stars uncovered In the li
One of the outstanding develop-.' be9't >b', 
menta of the practice thus far is eTer Been the great work of some or tlio | AlW came lh,Plelte bachfleld men. Herbst and L4lni. ^ had teei 
Keunedy. in particular, are two ' Pittsburgh, nar
BUTLEE’S
FOR BETTER GROCERIES 
414 60UTH CRAIG STREET -. We Deliver All Order«J. O- BAKER, Mansgor : . Mayflower 7644 ’
Oakland 
Savings & Trust 
Company
Member Federal 
¦ Reserve System ¦ -
"The Oakland Baok-V 
Capital - - >. $300,000.00 
Surplus - - - $300,000.00 
- :. Deposits Oyer
*,.45,000,000.00
field running h^ had 
played In
_ _ jly the Notre Damo'ho have shown to good ad: I gûmé It la comfnbn knowledge 
ntage. Both these boys were j,ow Wally'e protegee maâe mlhcè ambers of last year's Plebè elev- meat Q^one 0f the finest lines. In i. Herbst Is exceptionally fast ] the : hlstórT of football, and how 
Ken- the- Notre Dame backfield was un- lerce thè stonewall of oui Herbst, looks to have the makings defense'. On this day football hie- of a good runner. With the. proper, tory-was written, and Notre Dame amount of coaching and experience. Wènt^hóme; with the knowledge 
plus their present apparent de- that'it had been defeated, by the termination, they- should make .a j greate'nt team-that they .had-evei name for themselves. ‘ r I played against Many men are being' played at| Football held the spot; light ol center' (n an eiFort to see who Is interest for. the fall .sports, but al best suited.to/fit into the shoes of the same time that the football Bill Manby. So far. Haug, Grif-: team ; waa winning the Ttl-State ‘fitti:.- Yerîna.. 'Morb'ifo and : Allen ’ Championship, Carnegie’s^ first have been used almoet conslstently gr^at Cross Country team was -win- at this-position. • Hcrbat and Lef-. ning .for the Plaid Its first - Tri ler.RhOMld {tive Letzelter a good -state Champlonehlp in this gruel* Ition/The ^ling s;
and by the loi
material, the line ought .. ___VT-.— --___good' as last year’s. r .. | of ;2B to.30, it was almost expected.• Head Coach "Wally’-‘. StefTen will. However,: when they .went be here the latter part iof thin week‘ against'the' gTcat. Pitt aggregation in order-to take a look at: the boys the next Saturday and handed them even worse defeat,- 21 to 34, the 
ident body now woke played . Saturday between • two/'realised theyvhad a.real ti
nily picked teams lii order to following Saturday the Westmius. e.th.e boys a chance to'dò their . ter. team went dówo, before.lhé stuff.-' : r I rueh-of-tli.é Plaid,-and ...Carnegie.was Tr^-Slato Chajmpion, ; 
THREE CUPS TO BE ' j! Òn'November 22, the Plaid fliAWARDED-. AT FAIR, lshed4twé1fUi’ In. the ; National • In: ¦' 1 : . I tcrcollegifltés, at New Vork . City(Continued FròÀ Page One) „. .iln, competition-.' with 26 other Teaberry Chewing ,Gum^ and_ B. F. | scho.oie, .'thus .dosing their beat Stout, .Chevrolet ^distributor^- It I sèààòn, with a better than average Is expected that-: several-'more showing. . Z
Sopn; after ' Christmas. thé /Sklbos itarted . thelr .. bassetball
this
E
VERY liow and then there's a 
social event that almost demands ¦ 
you have a car for a day or an evening. /
( In which case you’ll find it mighty 
'convenient-to step, into our station— 
select your car and be on thir way— 
yourself at the wheel. ‘
You rent a car, in about two min- ;
utes. ^No red tape. No, annoying 7 , |
questions. And our service has this . , ; . !
decided advantage—the cost is so low - i
you can afford to use'a car freguently 
if you wish.
1 The only requirement. is that you 
be'qualified and competent to drive a 
car. That's all. :
Next time you want to go some- 
where—days, evenings or week-ends .. ^
—we invite.you to go in one of"our,- . ^ 
cars, You’ll like the service; : ’
Ride in Groups aiid Split the Cost
It costs no more for five to ride ..In one of our .cars.
Plan a trip wltli three or tour others—-divide the blll— 
and the cost to each Is .L small you’ll never' miss it ': -1
UTK»« f&BS:®Ri¥»UR“gSl.r
: 'STATiANi'.-;:CONTROLLED BY YELLOW TRUCK 6 COACH MrC.CO.- SUBSIDIARY GENERAL MOTORS' CORPOnATIOf«
616 WEBSTER AVE.
' Grant 5050 •
; 5612 PENN AVE.
Montrose 5050 '
om^anles wlll. also' take -paTt. It has been rumored in the freshman locker roomè-. that Bi F. Stout-Co. will' pass out Chevrolet cdúpes' ás favors, - and- ;the mote ;oj#tlmIstic freshmen have. made..applications' for automobile, licenses] .' li) is tain*that 6ven if thí? rumoráis 
trúe, those who ^tend will he well repaid fbiAttending , for they .wlll be laden ' down with ea ' * Æ '.ind . other ’fayprs. , T^i Fair Committee is end«
*et some Uve.,.stock, to. _ hibltlôn 'àrid ,-.ls, ' negotiating'- - -.fpr otherBtanti/and^
,^iilcï^it7i®;Véëplng. jjecret lintïi. tfcs .''time !.. for. ,jthe j Vperfórman'céJ' 
.whkh-^ir b.egin at tlie signal, of the lèâ<fer;pf tie' _ciftwn., hiuid'to blare ¦ forth.' that ' the aost: rusUc fair on eaK^ Is to begin:) -
Ith tiip9 to West .Virginia and W. and The.' Piald engaged 'in .14 ^ncounters .with eight different col* legesl ./Of this group .of contests, we won. five and loBt sine. . Of-the nine games loBt-,- four.-;were droppefl by .three, poiutp c>r. less. The njost notable gftmes of thls aeason,v. wer« the flrat and third, encounters: with tho Panthers, and the. vlctory ov.ei 
.VUe>67e';«f.'CvC.^.--YiV.In fact oui t6.uf':6f- the eaat might' be .entirely included . underplafd 1' defe ate d Rens^l^ar , by ' points' on FtidaK. night of the .trip, mn'i;C::C. :N. T. ou (tie following; everring ot/thff trip... If will, be ro- 
m^mlierea^at, ^.o^siur'b««t'
Me
arid the joy-friend.. 
Prince Albert
WHEN my father was in college, MPut that in 
your pipe and amoke itl’* was considered snappy 
conversation. I’m ready to take this old line 
literally when the talk centers’ around Prince 
Albert. Because P. A. makes two of what I 
like in a pipe.
All wise-cracking aside, P. A* is ttye money 
when it comes to deep^lown satisfaction in a - 
smoke. It’s ^ot.everything! Cool-as the trail,
' of the 'ice-man across the^ .kitchen. .Sweet ai 
' vacation. Fragrant as a pine forest.
Think up your own similes. You’ll write them 
all in the column headed "Superlative Degree*9 
whin you learn the joys^of a jimmy-pipe.and! 
Pnnce Albert. If you don’t know this grand old 
amoke, come around to my room and1*11 give 
yooaload.^'
RENT-A CSVAEI
—no oiher tobacco is. itke ¡tt
"\ I
usifjjsgtsrz
Í. A. li bM iiiiijiHtH âr tiét rt4 MJ
*Amá ííim fld'vMT ¿Ml« M fwlk iwwhI If..., 
f
s

---------------------------------------------------

Managing Editor....Névi Editer............Fluids KolbAthletic Editor...........................Frederick D. Wood*
CONTRIBUTING EDITORS - . ' ..
EUenor Tallmadge Robert U. PewBussell Balllnger\ ... Harold Jacobson• Ralph Hitchcock Barto-GrifflsSm Ye Fisher- Eugeno Scanlon .W. BernardJUNIOR EDITORS Meredith Stamp Milton CohenFenton Finn ' Jean Roy v ,
/¦ ‘ ALUMNI EDITORS •Margaret Rassell < Herbert Gi“aa
JUNIOR ASSISTANTS 
Florence McLaughlin Helen ReedJosephine Clark •John-Schneider 
REPORTERS Stewart Ralston Bob Young . Clyde Park .
Cyril Letwlter Ruth Bramson
Thomas Lippert ize Hyman' Levinson Dorothy Roy ,
BUSINESS STAFFBusiness Manager....... ...................Arnold FerreloaCirculation Manager..............................B. SupowitzAdvertising Manager......................Shelby McMUllon
BUSINESS ASSISTANTS ’ 'Jameo Seibert T. R. Zenk R. Noble
CIRCULATION ASSISTANTS 
L. Sacks . G. "W. Brahinst J. R. Bro
tìerfT»!
. Tepllts H. h. MarshalC. E. ]. Mallnlck
fault lies with the committee in charge of the 
events. The Queen-elected - should.« certainly, 
have as much fuss made over her as the Queen- 
elect. She should have a special box at the 
Qualifications ceremonies. - Her entrance at the 
v, i#;o«.svw. Mardi Gras ought to be accompanied with a 'j'. M«a urà great deal of hullabaloo and ceremony. And ,e* eeiow 4: the show on Saturday she should be set
aside a bit from the rest, where 6he could be 
seen, and ia turn acknowledge. the salaam of 
the hoi polloi. La short, hers should be the 
outstanding and important role at every event.
__ Unless the Queen come into her own next
_______„ reminder the '"•cekr w)«n ‘he ligits are extinguished at the
_________ü and defects of the whole show last «'»se of the Coronation ceremony, it will just
May, and then, of coorse, to express a hope for another case of “Long Live the QueeD, the
better things next week. Queen is Dead.” » « *
At this writing the Margaret Morrison-Art ^ .
EDITOE'S COMMENT
School feudhaB been fought; and Dean Breed’s ,, I,ms ’f1“ th'.‘'T.aTU"”. G0« t0 Pre??'girls have emerged from their setto with the ¦ the “toert of the Pittsburgh intell.gensiajstv.:-----' centercd-uponthe tnaL of Bome ten members
and officials of the Pittsburgh Symphony Or- 
= » c^t^“Eno»‘To^ed ~ “nb”£last week, still in the focus of the campus 
spotlight, if things break this'year as they have 
e the past, she is soon to be relegated to a
sororities with a Qneen in their midst. What 
will happen to this Queen next week remains
old blue law which controls* Sabbath be' 
havior. Should the state win its case, the 
whole matter will be given an airing in a sub- 
position of importance analogous to that of à sc<luent *ssue P0Per*^ #
•» x i_ , , , At the request of the: parties concerned, con-The Queen is crowned, to be sure, but her Biderablo space has been given to open letters 
fnlnre is pecore and uncertain She will tl,e student Council and R. P: Bullinger,
probably attend the functions follow»* ber )ateiy editor-in-chief of the “Puppet.” Though 
coronation, but no one 3Lx know it if she does, their disagreement smacks of a personal gfiev- The Qqeen -jnrt ceases to be important after ance> it 6Kould be thoroughly followed by* the 
the royal crowning. student body, as thè question of just how much
To.attribute this neglect to the fact that a power the governing legislative, student body 
democratic election such as we have never should ha've to act in so summary a fashion iq 
honors the most popular and.worthy girl, just ' judicial matters.
puts the blame on other shoulders. The whole;_____________________________M. T. H.
(Continued From Page One.) 
Uardl Gras to the Cainpue Week of 1921. On Thursday morning, after a vaudeville show, the stu­dent body paraded through town. Delta Upallon won first prize - In the sweepstakes with their ocean racer, “The Fish,” while Sigma Nu 
ran a cIobo second with their “Toonervlile Trolley."
The next year, for the. first time, a- campus queen was elected and crowned at the Mardl Gras festiv­ities. With the addition of the inter-traternlty migratory dance and a students’ campus show, the events of 14220D Campus Week were much the same, ia general plan, as they have been aloce that time.
The first , campus show was a three:act comedy, “Renny’s Place,” given In the . Schealey Theater. The next year “Rabbit's Feet,” written by Hany Hamilton, was produced. It wae directed by Ches­ter Wallace of the Drama Depart­ment. “The Blue Bandanna/' In' which Jean Blake played the only woman’s role, was also directed by, Chester Wallace, who took a dual part In the cast“Collegiately Speaking,V present­
er of the Tartan, and Don Gard­ner, editor ot, ,tbd Puppet. Ohio Newman, captain of the football team, played the lead. “A Des­perate Woman,” by Sam Janney, wae produced last year. It later scored a hit on Broadway ae ‘‘Loose Ankles.”
! from Page.,One)
tlon for the <
CRAIG 
RrSTAURANT
412 SOUTH CRAIG STREET TRY OUR REGULAR DINNERS
ELLIOTT’S 
4010 Fifth Ave. 
Storeis Convenient 
for Students’ 
Supplies
(Continued 
Enshrined between the four plons, which make up the decora-' ilrancc will be a nature of which wae not divulged. This statue Is the able hands of Clayton- Walker and Janet De 
Coux, as sculptors:
omlllée hàs had charge of building- all of the framework for the decorations, and addition has started constnic* 
D on three booths -for conces­sions. It Is hoped that enough left in which to build a number of standards to be placed In front of Science Build­ing, Margaret MoiTlson, and the im. Construction has aleo been started on the stage for the Coronation, which will be held on > upper Gym steps this year, In- ad of in the Outdoor Theater, before. This Btnge will not re semble any of the known and usual forma, but Is to be ot odd de­sign, thé'nature of kept secret.
The efficient plai by the . General Plai
Saturday matinee of former years Veen discontinued.' The regu- 3. W. performance for the Clan Carnegie will be given Sat. urday- evening. ,
;Tlpket Sales 
shets for the show will be d on. open sale today. A tick­et booth has been • established' on the Cot, where all those desiring to purchase' tickets and to lift those already reserved will call. Ten days ago order blanks for blocks of seats were Bent to all fraternity and dormitory groups, and these orders were filled In the order they were received. These
with their stadles. 
We redpi with low tentloiL
Drawing Archlt J EMfllni
was establish*
¦ices and expert t
Architecte'. Suppllei
while the remainder ot the f) balcony will sell at $1.60 a s< and- the second balcony seats i cost $1.00. A limited number very good seats In the thee 
$2.00 <Approxllately< thousand tlck- ible for each perform-
lulted In the expected comple- 
U of ali decorations before Cam- s Week. Thorough co-operation d expenditure of energy on the part of air concerned has resulted an elimination of last, minute ;hlng; eo characteristic of for- r years. Both committees are be commended on the. results Ich will be apparent to the s'tu* lt'.body In..the next few days;
»pea
rield^GIriaee . Reádlno'GliMee Stlll‘C«mora«<iSuppllea .... MovIa Çameraa A Projflcto Fllm’DèyelépInfl ¦- Eye ........Eye Giàâàeÿ-r^pectacles Qxfo¡*d»-^e<í lanette«', ;
REASÓÑ^Lé.PKICES EFFIClENT^SERVICE,
. (Continued From Page One.) lng him are Charles DJcklnaon, 
who is in chsrge of ticket sales and distribution; Richard Con­nelly, Shelby McMilllon,' Paul Ahl- brandt and Walter- .-D. Bronaon. The work, of this group' includes lanageflal’' work' of ihe"
The engaging of the Nixon ^The- Or : for this year's' Campus <WeeR show-followed..a li
the contract marked the' first step toward- the success of the pnsduc- tlon. The . regular. Nixon -Theater, orchestra, has likewise been ' •’gaged; for bofe^lghts' .of the p and jairpoBslbléramogements hive been;£ÔtiipIoted; .:The'piairUs giÿent^o'nlghtaV'Tbe'Fridaÿ night 
performance ;ls to allow Uiosefper­sons. of'' Pittsburgh and vicinity actively’ associated with- Carnegie to see the play, which bas • béei 
almoat Impossible in, the past; due to.the.great demand^ for aeal 1. member»' Of: thë'studènt bbdjC The'-
REVIEWOF1927 
CONDITIONS IN 
BIG BUSINESS
are is nothing of a very start­
ling nature in the reports ot bus!- 
ess activity for the first .four 
lonthe of the current year. One ot
the most i
at we as a nation have con­
tinued to have prosperlty for such 
g Urne with no interruption, 
he past two or three years 
there have beea warnings sounded 
the business ol thè nation was 
due for a slump, in face of these 
warnings there continued to.be an 
increase' in the' business activity 
during these years. Things got off 
slow start for the year 1927, 
and the. first reports were that we 
might expect' some recession in 
sinesB for this year. \
At the present time,, general bus; 
}bs Ib above normal with a slight- 
upward trend.' Commodity prices 
halve continued to slowly fall,, and 
wages have been sustained at a com*, 
paratlvely high level. In the or* 
ary course ot affairs we find 
t wages fell as prices do, bnt not 
raÿidly. But during the present 
-lod of .falling prices, wages 
have been kept et a mnch higher 
level than would.have been thought 
ble. • The .chief .reasons for. 
the maintenance of high' wages are 
the abundance of capital seeking 
Iment, thé restriction of iinml- in and the gresiter efficiency of production.It has been necessary for the manufacturer to economize in .labor result of the fact that there lot 'been the abundant, supply of cheat» labor on which he could irmerly depend. European coun- les have not been able to send le larger numbers of immigrants • Ihe United States which they
because of thè Immigration laws. Capital, on the other hand, has be­come more abundant than at any time in the-history ot the country. The result lias beèh that the man­ufacturer-has been.using more cap* Ital for the purpose of making this 
limited supply of labor more ef­ficient, in order that the high wages might be paid.Different specific lines of busi-
‘‘Sons And Lovers" ]s consider­
ed by most-critlcs os.D. H. Law­
rence's finest wo>rk, even though it was written a decade and. a half ago. .'It Is known.'to be autobio­graphical: 'Paul Morel Is.L&wrence 
himself, and Paul’s unsloved con* filet Js probably Lawrence's, own, although I am sure that Paul nev. er had.as many -conflicts as; his creator. The story, concerns itself chiefly „with. Paul’s love for his mother, and his consequent failure to achieve- an affinity, for a wo­man of his. own generation. The struggles ot his “inhibited and nfo^her-eapped spirit” are Bet forth In a prose worthy of Thomas Hardy At his best—^whom,' by the way, •Lawrence 'admlried- aad imllatod sedulously, in bis youth..
The book is comparatively uu- marred by the tortuous symbolism and primitive, atavistic, mysticism 
of his later work, aad this symbol­ism is eo perfectly united with the- simple realism of the story tb&t 
It serves only to heighten the drama and the beauty of Ihe whole. For the book is beautiful. It Js 
beautiful to the greatest degree In 
the passages which have nature as a subject: nature considered not only as a glorious and exciting pageant, but as a tremendous force reacting vitally upon all'man It is not, however, the morbid 
force, the symbol-clrcns that Law­rence tries to make of It In some later works; it exists for lte 
lake.rather than for the sake 
i precarious doctrines which he has fathered'since.
These.doctrines need not trouble anyone but the psychoanalyst, 
true that they led one critic II their propounder” the a daring champion of atavism 
;Wenty.centuries,” and a duffer i i neophyte to boot; and bis chief doctrine, when understood. 1 pernicious as any I know ot; but it is safe to say that most of his admirerers are unaware of it (although they may, nevertheless be Influenced by it unconsciously) —for one reason because he speaks symbols, for another because the book'in .which this central thesis iBt explicitly expounded has been suppressed.^ and finally be- auso his statement of It is always emendously Involved and obscure:' ot. I take it/becauee,Lawrence’s lind Is muddled, as some'critics
imember hln 
tor his tnrgtd and inchoate pl< ig of frnstratlon, perversion, 
bestiality, but for his consum­
mate mateiy of words. It Is that •hlch makes him o force of th< ret' magnitude in contemporary 
liters; upon his virtuosity In style be.will stand or. fail, with comini generations. Ten lines of hii prose will state his .esse better t< than the panegyrics ot a doz Itics; and It Is possible that ame ten llne9, when all Is ind done, will overthrow com- 
pletely the condemnations that the
the Un
VODVILL SHOW IS
TO BE. PRESENTED
IN REVIEW FORM
(Continued from Page One) 
posed of Oskar Norbeck, Joe Woods, Caleb Hornbostle and Cbas. Kenny, will put on a hokum act 
Two of-the boys who Were let it of regulations, MacLeod and Mills, will put on a - clever little' dance similar to the one they gave In the Arts assembly on the day
four mohUie of this year which cor pare favorably with their recorc for.last year.- Building constru tion was Just allghtly less in vc uxne for the first three months' •
correspond)]
The automobile ted out rather slowly, but there 
i steady Increase during
will c} Lloyd Fos- “Now YouSee It, Now You Don't.*’ will be followed by* Hern berg, who will present that Is filled with thrlilspantomime,- “Dumb/’ act will be done by Oskan Norbeck. Car* 
’s " '*Lon Chaney,” Tommy Fisher, is providing a character sketch ot rare type., FlBher has iecome. quite well known for bis nterpretatlon ot the\character of he-' old man, who lwed. 1n the 
blmney; In “The Blaek Flamingo” ind those who saw this charac: terlzation will, certainly , want to e him in the vaudeville show. 
The burlesque committee , will esent a humorous., interpretation
Dirt” A merty ilxup /act, ' ‘'entitled' - ‘ "Cros'aed Wlrea,”/will be presented by Vi.C: tor. Eeker, Miss Seybold and Ju- ditii :; /
;There- will- be., specialty ¦' dances by -Frank'. Sullivan and Martha Reeves to blenci the theme of show Into< the review form which -it will be presented.Oskar Norbeck - will, besides
(f.addltion hasVbéeñvinade
the last t i lainths,
nlng on production schedules which inly slightly lower on tli 
i than was tlie case in 192S, whlcli was the biggest year In the history of the industry.ces of stocks In the New York Stock Exchange have' continued their high level, and severalhave established new high selling prices for all tlmesT ylentlful eupply of credit' has helped to support the high ] 
ocks, and there Is every a that there will' be n< tailment In the supply pf bank
general downward trend in stock prices are.doomed to wait tor’s! tlme longer,-unless sometlil^g of an- untors'een nature develops.
BARTOW GRIFFISS.
to the vaudeville commiuee. ney Warner hae been added in'tbe capacity - of - business - manager, Warner fills the vacancy-made by
-pointed -stage sh.n.w. - For such1" 
will-be—In review .forln^r-the'stàge ^managership Is-a very difflcult; •sltlon to'.fill and :in vlèw of 'thla 
fact the committee hos choseln tlie capable' Mr.' Miilhbliand.
^ -Thé‘.show: ln\k«ping: with -big •time-review fóntì; wlil. have inter, eating’ transitions''between^a'cts and have the''^'Collegiate Imps”- to
Ask Me Another
Bÿ G. KEEBLE 
Director of Arts School
:—Who excelled in several j was aleo one of the gree figures in experimental selene2—Who was the architect the Pittsburgh Court House 
Jail?3—What internationally fan ilnters were natives of Pitts­burgh? ' What famous eli What composers?
5—Plans of what famous bulld­ogs- are represented in the pave- nent of the Arts foyer?6—What Is probably the most -aluable painting- In the. Carnegie lermanent collection?
7—What; otrlnged instrument ire commonly used In à syraphon »rcheelra? •
fr—What event Is celebrated o April 23rd?
9—In‘what art did the foolowlnccel? (a) Donatello; (b) Ho beln; (c) Pheldlaa; (d), Handel...>ubllc i10—How citais bave b Hall?
ANSWERS TO DEAN TARBELL’S QUESTIONS IN “TARTAN"• OP APRIL 26, 1927
.. Members of the faculty the t year, 1906-06, who are still at rnegle are Messrs. Connelley, Follows, Hornbostel, James, Leeds,. Pfouts, T*rlnks, Work and W>The only President of United ¡States who has visited President WiUoiOctobei, 1916.
Thre’ the (Claes,Albert Henderson,-and Robert Pai icelved the idea of uslni thé Tartan plaid as Carnegie’s offl- :ial colors. ' They interested the irat class : In recommending idoption,' In recognition of icotch ancestry of its fount ilrs. Carnegie made a gift of first bolt of the clotlilThe Mechanical - Engineei 
Department has graduated the largest number of stud«5. Our ‘‘oldest living graduate” is James M. Samps< tady. New York, Cla Forty-four Can n died In* service during the
by the purchase of the Sfcbmidt property on Forbes street, ón i» of which Laurel Hill is situated.•8.' The Sènior.; Fence, from, the Class of ’23, 16 the most i
able gift on.the canipus tò from any ' graduating 'cleepi v'-, 9; Of the $15.00 Actlyltles Fee $11:25 is' allocated to the'Athletic -Council and $3.75 to. tl^é Student Council. ’ .s.10. .The. cashing of student, ¡hecks Is one of the most .appre- .luable serylces.v per*
buibe dares not
; plain
'The*i the lastof “De 
istltuted. "Society, as we hai It, will have no place for me, has 
none to offer;. but Nature, whose eweet rains fall on unjust and Just alike; will have clefts in the rocks 
Where I may hide, and secret -val­
leys in whose silence I may weep undisturbed. She--will hang the nlght wlth Btars co that I may walk 
abroad In the' darkness without stumbling, end send the. wind my footprints' so that none
Let's All Qo Tó TheTECH
Barber Shop
For Our Hjiir Cats
CRAIG AND
FOBBES
of bis detracto!
Oscar Wilde.
Vhcn Matthew Arnold wished give purtlcular praise to a elan- of poetry, or to a few lines of >ae, it waB bis custom to quote passage which he considered 
especially praiseworthy, and thee t it speak tor Itself.' This be .lied the “touchstone” method, id it was certainly a good one. 'hen applied to as eminently 
lotable a writer as OBcar Wilde it Is, undoubfedly, the beat one. there Is so much to quote in Wilde one does not know where to , and above all, cannot tell
! prose Ib like a loosely woven fabrifc of' bright-colored threads, many of which are twined'round 1th gold; and if you unravel it you 
will find every throad still whole and beautiful. His - style Ib pri­marily that of the-talker; for he one of the most brilliant talk- vho ever lived. Its brltltaE due -chiefly to the extraor agility of his mind, but finish was owing, in some respi (it least, to his genius in Imltatii Huyemans, Morris, Swinburn, E i, Pater, Arnold, Anderson, and Milton he took for masters— lr. Indeed, did he cany hie : that he purchased Carlyye’s writing desk, and when be WTOte it- least In ble youth) be wore a 
onaetlc gown, as Balzac bad done. But In the realm which le pecu­liarly his.own he went further than of his .masters. In sheer power nakinjg words sparkle he has master, except in the greatest 
Bts. And his-power is many- sided. Ab a connoisseur, a prince 
if paradoxes, and an arch-aesthete, le is • at: his best' In '"Intentions 
is-a fantastic; he Is moat at home In “Dorian Gray’V-rthat strange tale In which a mad prayer has a dreadTul fulfillment; In -his “Fairy Tales”, he 1s primarily a story tell- id In "De Profundls” that frag, ment of a letter written out of bis .nguleh in Reading Gaol, he 1s a mystic, a philosopher, and a poet. It is thlB last work in which scar. Wilde achieved his greatest astery. ' Some of hie detractors have called him Insincere .'and a poseur for putting his suffering In auch beautiful words. Blit when felt deeply, .Wilde seldom used rda of any other, sort It has n said that ‘‘he touched nothing that he dtdi not decorate." That literally true. In our final esti- 
itlon of him we remember the
LOYALTY
ol, yeur fraternity, youi
Whittington Dress Suit Co
6002-3-4 JENKINS ARCADE - 
PHONE: 
t 2604 ' Nlflht— Láfayel
Smart 
, Moderns 
Prefer 
Pajamas
in the 
new prints 
Trimmed or 
Man- Tailored
Priced $1.95 
to $3.95
JOSEPHHORNECO
aid ; In’ the . unification.r
clatedi____formed by the.Y; Mi C.- A.
11. '-A1oii2o Stagg; head of the Department of;. Physical - KducAtlon, University of Chicago, gave .the
Jiine'13, 1923; v ,12.^-Carl’ R : Landefeld, .'2S, Ar­
chitecture, won’ the Parla Priro 1926 which-caTTled a'.’cash.atlpand of; $3,000 - for thfee' yeara* study- abroad.
Glorifying the Nation’s Press
U
nder the careful scrutiny of the Congress set aside the height limi?
FineAitsCommission,thcBoard tation of zoning laws by special'act, 
of Engineers, the Building Inspector, so that the building could be of maxi- 
Variousdvicojrgani2ations>theDistrict mum usefulness and still conform with 
Commissioners and Congress itself-— the symmetry of the adjacent slcy line, 
the National Press Building is now The financing of this undertaking
beiog builc in !W‘ashihgton>D.C.,as a has been very impressive—$6,000,000 
.mpniimenttothePffiiJ, and toserveas worth of bonds were oversubscribed 
headquarters for theNational Press ahd ; 300% by a mighty response from 
as an office building. every seaion of the country. .
Tbt elevator installation consiits of seven (7) Otis CearUss, Tfaqicn Elevators wish ' •
• Unit Mufti-Vdtagt Control andCar Switch operation at 450feetper minute, six 
(fi) of these elevatorsheing used, exclusively for passenger service and one (I) as a /'
; sertia eltvator^ There is also a smaUdnssing n om elevator and a sidewalk tUvaior .
:*'sE L H V A T OR COMP A
C^Scea in'All Principal Cities of the World • • •
