CARNEGIE INSTITUTE PF TECHNOLOGY, PITTSBURGH, PÄTUESDAY, APRIL 5, 1927
SENIOR BALL 
TO BE STAGED 
THURS. APRIL7
RejuvenatedCollegiatelmps 
To Furnish^ Syncopation 
Vybere Event is Scheduled
DANCE FEE TOBE $1.50 
AND $4.00 AS STATED
Webster Hall Ballroom Is the 
Place ChoBeo for Dance— 
Ticket Sale Now On.
Preparatici» for tbent' of the 1927 cli completed. and tbe outgoing mem­bers »re eagerly, looking forward to next Thursday evening, -whet tbe Senior Ball will be 'enacted; 
The men of the cle&a of ’27 have been working hard to "bring about a successful'’' and enjoyable occa­sion which'may be a suitable 'finale to' their life as a Class of Carnegie. They bay® gone about tbe an-ange-
CARN EGEISSTU PFATHP 
OL YO,BÄDOYN5O 19D52 7e5jÄ2 LD Oe,uYB5v
be held . ...
12:00 in'the Little ThVi School. Bey. . Klnley- McMl Presbyterian! stude speak, ' ,
Dr. Baker, as is ci a' selection, from 
Tbe music depanm a soloist for the special on tbe program. .This will be (he last time student's will be able to llstei 
f?e*ver»B.’ are secured ' by? ~ -v s, During
Vo^e For-One of These Tomorrow
Senior stylethè dai
>ses, they are to be the .r* clplents of hearty -congratulations, for the-anticipated success of the
Asj-announced iln thalast issue of the Tartan, the fee will be $1.50 for all those members who have been .'- faithful 1u the payment of their., da^s dues.^r.whoSre com­pletely'paid'up. For tho'so not in good flnanclarstandlng'in relation to.their claasV the assessment shall be $4.00. . Invitations have also been.sent to all local alumni,.and' Jt'ls hoped that .a pleasing nui , of 'former students, will turn . The-Collegiate Imps; an ele piece, orchestra or wide repute 
• well-known .especially to Carnegie students, - will te-‘the^muelcal traction'. andv of ; course, will. ] vide music of real quality. 'They have been • engaged at various points: in ‘Western Pfenneylvanii and conslrtCr-Carnegle • Tech ei their home grounds. ,. : Tbe service will ¦ be a la, carte ‘with: light refreshments being served.': by the, management t( those who. desire I.L This wli: -come-as cabaret style, with tablei and dancing.
................i.js-to.he
ANNUAL STUDENTI 
EXHIBITION TO BE 
HELD 0NAPRIL 22
Day and Night Students 
Will Work in Various 
Shops, Labs, Studios"
(CAMPUS WEEK >AfERPEOPLE WILL MEET.AT - JARTAM OFFICE ON WED.
There will tre'ao Important meet­ing of everyone concerned : with the Issuing of' the annual Campus Week paper,, at; the' Tartan' .offlcc, Wednesday at 12:30, noon. As* slgnments wlii be given out by tho I editors, and the advertising'and'
concerning the work'In'tho:
ASSEMBLY FOR 
TODAY WILL BE 
ENTERTAINING
CLOWN BAND WILL 
LEAD FRESHMEN !N 
PLEBE PROMENADE
Last Student Couqcil I^rq- 
greiD of the Year Features 
Many New Songs, Stunts
VAGABONDS TO PLÁY
I Committee Will Stage Short 
. Skit at. Conclusion of 
Parade in Gym
¦ held .¦rlday
On this evening, all depart] f the school will be open for pub- i Inspection with studonts of both he day and the night classes ot :ork ¡n’-tbe'-vnrioua sbops, latara- orlcB,. studios, and I class, roopis.Special features planned for'this
(more suitable .placé -would be liard, * OUU VjUtlt •/HW;
Topics of Lectures
s.place would.be Hard, /to. acquire.' ••(Continued QD Page Two)'
PETE RYGG TO DIRECT 
C.W. VAUDEVILLE SHOW'
Varsity Football Men Will 
Present Kovel "Heavy” 
Drama.
Plani udevllle showthé Cam: being foriIon. oftoted ."under tbe able Pete Rygg. chairman of .the com­mittee, in charge. The vaudeville show will be given on Thursday • morning of Campus. Week. The first act of :the 'show will consist of several : acrobatic acts to be. put, on by the same , group that enter­tained : the crowds between halves at the /Pitt-TecU football games. There will bo seyerai musical and dance numbers to entertain. Dur* bln Horner wlll slng and Thetft .Tau, science school honoraryt lis anual act.
O9I9n¡ville show will
t playa
> Collefof 1•k Ini; pqtably.the Col­lege or rjne Arts; concerts by rthe Kiltie Band; motion pictures of student activities; demonstrate of practical and, scientific wrfrk in the College of Engineering and In gustries, and tbe Margaret .Morrl Carnegie College; In6pectloi 9f . the tunnel of. the. mine lindei the Science Building; and demon Etrations of student wprk In cob design and' household econ college.; In .the wotnèi
Dr. Haas, professor-or Phyi 
the University of Vienna, d€ d the first of a scries of 1 lures on physics, entitled “Tbe
ht in tbe Carnegie Union. He 1,conclude hie lectures with his discussion of "Objective and Hu- i Physics."
r. Haas, a native of . Vienna, lied at the Universities of ina and Gottingan. In 1906, he received hie doctorate at the Uni­versity of Vienna and-six.years e became prlvatdozeht In at Vienna;. In 1913 extra- ¦ professor at the Unlvei-: Leipslz; In 1922 professor nn. He was the first phy­sicist to apply the quantum' theory to the study of the atom. He die- d in 1910. thus before "Bohr.
Music Department Will 
Present Recital April 10
. The studentsDepartment of' MubIc will present 
9 recital at Ihe Little Theater on ¡-Sunday- evening. April .10,. at- 8:15 .P.-/M. Jhe evening's proi eludes the work -6f diverse'great Handel, Dvorak,and Liszt of Marcel!The' fot s "Sbnita In G major," 
major,” the .first 1Bho . Symphonic SDoh's ‘‘Rose ^111 also.be pre-
violaviolin
the relalloiwhlcl
mark .an innovation in the history ot Campus -Week, vaudeville shows, In that tbe sbonv-wlll be presented ''in..a unified' whole In review., Here­tofore all acts haye not.been plan­ned/with unlflcatlon—«och act be­ing .individual, relating not it all tD_the. others.: It' Is Mr; -Rygg’s desire-tio; create a: smooth running Bhow.. that'.wjir. be.. distlncUve • for 1(3 unlflcwton. .An orchestra, on the. stage*wlll play for; all musical And .banco numbers'. vVThe. for «Stf/yeart actarrltteri.
by i
so-treated the problem.of the muclei of atoms and the Isotope
tlie economics of- coal, s will be given 'm Wednesday arid. Thurs­day nights of this week -by F. G.
of Commerce at Washington, D.-C. His, first discussion, It Is an- iced., will*coyer “Changes-In-
ond lecture will be on .‘.‘Tlie.Coat.«f coai.” ••••:'
In these discussions, tbe Wash* ington official will outline and ' Continued on Page Three)
Paúl Kleyle, John Brletlc. .Marcello¦.......................». -Two Sonatas for ’cello piano(a) Sonata In G Major . 
Andante • Allegro - Ad&
Stewart Blackmore, Mildred
Lalo .Symphonic Espagnol«
Caroline Kunst Spohr..; .Rose Softly Bloomln( Droark, 5n My Dear Old Mothei . ' Eleanor LambContluued on Page Three.) -
TO CONSTRUCT COURT 
AND FOUNTAIN FOR C.W.
Gampus Week . Paper 
To Burlesque Events
.The annual Campài:week.papei will again, be a'- burlesqu^Weet, | end, will .appear early; ,In thè morn­ing. of each day'Jof festlviQedi'. Jt was decided $y teresentntlvea'óf Alpha Chi Alpha and Pi ^Dèltà Bp- Bilón last-Sunday. who win'jrianage l
le 'nsiue, Pa-Ma Day/ glv inual 'welcoming day to students’ there and mothers, has glven rise . the deslro on the port of tho Student' Council {o' (Ind ‘a' more < late .cognoriien. Tbe obji 
o«ho name eoems! quite wlde- tl and arises adnually.
McLaughlin, Associai
MUI Cohen,Xìrtìula- tloii Manager. -' - . ' .
^ny Campus wit who wò'uld .like try bis hand at publication should.
¦ and to this end, a request Is made 
‘to the student.body to.sond in to the Council .suggestions for a- new name. . The full co-operation of all thoNQ lnleresied;. lyilL be . apprect-
In the archlieclui 
anyaflenioonthli tor.'already Was: thf paper onÜIÍ&d,
Bee Art- Séltíít ! .di»ftiUR;iW<|in, weçk.. .Thé ^dl-
Elaborate Lighting Effects and 
Scenery Planned.
Under the direction and super- Istcn ot-George McKinney, chair* nan ot the decoration committee ctual work will begin on the con- tr'uctlon of. th$ many- decorativo 
satures/whlch have been designed
Theplans (or e high tc facing the School, 
each end'of the Art Sell ill. also be dècdratéd and furnlsh- ' ilored lights. The : fountain
be placed on the walh crrace In front of the The large lamps on
mpted
:ou8lructlon-wlll be bne of Ilio most nnlts ever t of thls klnd work wlll ha ve. to-be put forth-by he commlttee- jn, order to brlng ;boiit thè deBlrèd resulta. An or­iate court Is to ba bullton thè cut ,t- thè " poln't where the two paths Intereséct, thè Idea le to be lìi tlie ¦rm of an exedra'. . Color for tbe decoratlons le to be'provided by Pgge Three.)
cotnplètò' iircuiäÜon '~ät/iTíbe' d-women’s dornjltorléa wlllbegin Im 
dred.per
ledlately after tho t holI: n' efTôrt to obtain :ent,cIrculatlon. ...Plfieet*
arly on each morning: Committees i’ho subscribe'early will get their oples on 'thè Cámpns at a‘-booth specially designated for their ben- fit Alumni may buy . the paper ach ilay on . tlie Campus'.from . n
PROF. GRIERSON GIVES 
HIS VIEWS OF MILTON
Speaking before a large a ice. Dr. Grierson of .the Unl sity-of Edinburgh; brought-out
that tite .poet .Mllton 'lacked two . essential Chrtatlan’-rilr- i of hural.llty- and charity;- and Id -not be . .thus considered a great Christian, poet Dr. Grierson opened his lecture by stating that he -had 'chosen as e giree poets'that were to be the bject of his course: Milton,Wordsworth - and Blake becauso ork of.each of them had been profoundly Influenced , by the revo- lutlonary social disturbances through -wblch.they lived. Alllton. like Jobn Ruskln, had. benefited id sufTered by tbe elaborate and illglous education which -they .owed tp the care of their parenta. This, education tended., to foster im ?nd to make Us subject
Country Fair Plans 
For Many Features
A greased. ,p|g, square dances, 
clo\yn, band, Bide 'shows, and games will be ëçino, ot. thevfeatures of 
.Ui(Lhig»£nuDtrtKEalr^«h|(ih-l»-heli annually as a . Wg ¿vent-of Campu Week., .the • C mutee, has ai
dormitories. In addition the girls’, dorms and the fratei ¡¿..will present stunts on a' platform, which ..will, be built in.thi ¡enter of the Pair,
Besides these.stunts, there wll •o many other performances, dem mstrfttlons, stock - exhibits, an» acrobatic exhibitions. An old time ddler will be Imported fi llds-of West Virginia, and thoso ho wlll attend will dance tho ol< ishloned square dance and. Paul >neB. Efforts are/being made to rccuro a portable merry-go-round 
............... ' riders
CAST 2ND CAMPUS 
QUEEN VOTE WED.
Fifteen Girls Chosen in First 
Election Are Candidates 
For"2ridjààllot
i first ballot has bean, cast.! 
Firteen of Carnegie's ' fairest havt 
been seiocted to run for CnmpuK 
Queen. Seven girls from, thé Col 
pt Pine Arts and eight from 
Margoret Mon-Ison. were nominal- 
>y. ' popular vote in the ilret 
naUon held la» Wednesdi 
on. Thle is thé .first of a i 
ofelections .the second of 
L wlil be held tomorrow. The 
vote will, be taken op Wed.* nesday, April 26,
The second eloction jvlil .be held’ 
toroorrow from, 12:00 to 1:30 uud
band, composed Plebo musicians will lend the Plobe Prom, annuul ' Freshman frolic ¦htch 'Wlil bo held on , Tuesiluy; April 26, according io the on- nouncomont of Goorgo Vau Voch- chairman of this yeur'a ¿rom- [e. On. the morning of tho de, which Is to etnrt .. the .Plebos wlll bo oxcused L:lO to go .to their locker dross themselvo8 in their costui 11:30 they will parade In front of the ossomblcd uppercIasBmen tbolr'respective 'schools. „Tho Engineering freshmen will parade In eltlior Room 209 or Room . 21S Scienco, tho Maragatet- Morrison girls In Rocroatlon Hall, \the ArU freshmen In the Llttlo Theater, and the.lndUBlriee plobes in 104 Indue- ics-building. >¦* 'After lbb'Judglpg all.lho Fresh,, en will gather In front of Coti- tral building for a Grand March.’Ill bo photographed by the city newspaper i 
moving.plcturos of ihe parade will be taken by nows reel photogri phers.. Led by. the clown band,
Moflic, P. and D., and Drama 
Departments Contribute to 
Peppy Program.
General Assembly In Cameglo - Music this. morning. Ac* recent decision, tlie io prompt, this.Isprogram wlll 1tho last, goo«!,. ______ w
hold under the uuaplcca of thé .’ Student Council, as . the % May as- sombly will, be la chargo of tho Campus Week Commlttee, which 1n making elaboroto plans for tbe program. ;
Interesting pi^gram has been arranged for todayv. Tho assembly opons with the ensemble singing ot a . group" of Carnegie songs, accom­panied by Roy R. Dlote. Mins Peg Werta, ono of the leading la* . dies of last year’a Campus Week ond Frank Sullivan, who : tho gooso in thls;yeBr'^..
The Judging or the Plobes wlll take plrtce In . the various school nssombly rooms, tho plobes to be 
exempt Trom regulations io bo de* elded by the applnuso each re*..........The eight or ton' In, eachschool who recelyed the most up- 
plause . win . ho / given , exemption
(Continued i
16,000 Youths- From All Parts of the Globe
/Gather at Pittsburgh in Pursuit of Knowledge
of Pittsburgh. Carnegie Institute of- Technology. Duqué.éne Univer­sity aad-Pennsylvania College for Women come from 44. sUtéR, the District'of Columbia, and r 28 for-,eign countlres. according to a. re:
port Issued today by AlRn Bright/ registrar of Carnegie.-.Mr. Bights report covers Uie geograpltfcal rep-. - cesentatlon of the day-students at­tending the-four institutions . a*£ 
poinU out aeveral • factors. -that ¦ probahly influence. etudei 
all ové " -burgh I lege education. • v . “Plttsbhrgh.” Mr. Bright points, out. “ha's long been recognized as - .one-óí the beat places In.whlch.to: wort:' The rapid development of -its schools ands. colleges during^ th«.• > pMl few years' and' the attraction. Y v.of^lerge nvimbéfs oi iSt.udeuta .to • its'- educational . ..Inslltutlona v are Tevidenofea tliat 1U& peoplej.of:,Plttfr -burgh are trying bard to succeed, ln-; making :Pltta>ur«h not only :.a; > - : place to work-h.u't a place io. which I’-.^./tO'.llTerand learn.-. i ‘ -• i, ^ educational bene*. v iU ’PThich: piar_lbo:’derived--------
great industrial district ,/yith general stimulus and Its practical resources for strengthening of In­struction should be-obvious, thèse benefits are.- nevertheless.,- not generally appreciated to the full- bst extent. The college student of .today demands with an eminent fftouttv. - Adequate - classroom - fa­cilities. thoroughly modem labora­tory equipment, and plonsant-.Uv- Ing ac ¦prefer
cfCA and -district of Pittsburgh, the Industrial production, of which an­nually-exceeds la Its tonnage that of anv. other city In tlie: world. It must-; be; primarily, the diversity and-«perfection of; technological lea-. Involved. In . the' -wldc
SGsrChi' lahoratories.'- • the vopportii-' nltleB-, for- observation' In ; "our coorta/the unusual attractions- of from' Internatlohal jiBCop0.:.'.tn.>. árt.and
. help
muBlc, the almost unlimlte< ry facilities, tho banking-ai cantile .establishments, -tbe portatlon and- communloatti poratlons. All contribute I produce, a fruitful field of useful training.’
¦ Of the 15,920 regular day atu-s dents enrolled.In Pittsburgh's four
4Î7 students/ Westx Virginia la third with .276; and Now York ranks fourth 'with 134: ' \Idaho, South . Carolina. Nevada, and New-Mexico are the state* not represented - by college, students enrolled here1 this year • -New, jersey^nd -Indiana have' }a Btudents-e^ch. in - Pittsburgh In­stitutions. Michigan' bas 38»- Massa*' chusetts. 32.. Connecticut 30.' Mary­land 29,¿-Illinois 25.: <VIrglula 24. District of, Columbia 23. Colorado .14,1- and • Tennessee . 112. Other states with 10 -or -more representa­tives each are..Alabama, California. Iowa,. Kentucky; Nebraska. Texas, md : Wisconsin^ All-of the remain*
i as in therethe government of colonli is benefit to be derived froi and solitary neglect. Even in Mil­tons early poems with all . their wonderful artistic beauty there is a - touch-., of - haugbty. sfelf-oenlered feeling.
In his -Lycldes- and the Latin poem on tbe. death of his friend VDlodalJ.” Milton .has more to say ot himself than of his.friends. -His eulogy of chastity tn "Cornus” does not, like Dante’s In the "Vita Nova glorify a purity that is
whichof love. Milton' live, a more self-regarding virtue.
The crisis of Milton’s-life came with the outbreak of the-rebellion against the civil and religious poll-, oy of Charles I. He was 'already preparing to . write- a great natlon- but tbe Rebellionhim. as deeply as the French R. lutlon .later, moved ; Wordswortli 
He foresaw, a ,new - epoch tn th religious and soclal'hjstory.of tin English people, and he was to b<
Hie iwork* a
pig wlll gambol about the grou iritU his lucky captor 8uccc¿dl bringing home the bacon. . 1 clown ' band will send foTth .lhe 
id the barker», about the^blg;
fhusic In
gest, heat,
the face of the earth.Novelties, favors, and si a great varlely will, be gl' free to the falr-goers by business houses -and firms In Pittsburgh. There will be plenty for every on male or fcmnlc, and those who wl come are advtaed to bring' hand bags . and automobiles to carry away their glfis.
the commlttcc com]Lyle R. Sheppard, chaii (Continued on Page
AtPHARHO CJJi OFFERS CUP 
FOR Ç, W. DECORATIONS
adopted laiFollowing- the poilcy ¡ar. Alpha llho.Chl, 
rchltectural honorary fraternity, 111- again ofTer a trophy for the heat decorated fraternity bouse- dur g Campus Week. This cup was jn last year by Sigma Phi Epsl-
It has always been customary for the various fraternities to add ¡thing specialvin their .decora-tlorii.but
¡xultatlon which was never to he I the officers heard again In. Milton’s -works- For dlslllusiqn soon followed.-The first. shock. that.Mllton’a- sensitive
and;cultured<nature..recelvedw38 the:4isappolntment of hlsiflrst riiar^ shock from which he ncver recovered. Thls^was^.followed by
the keen compeUOon dlspli . _rought forth an unusual va- if design. The decorations 
I most cases, far more'elab- ad extensive than formerly, der to keep up the conipetl. Irlt and thus secoro the best results In. the decoration design; the Alpha Rho Chi fraternltv has 
decided, to offer a tropby cup each ampus Week, the cup.going*per* ¦anently to ,HSaNwinner. .Judges ill be selected :• later- from mein* bers of the ATts «chSol-faculty. *¦
. lb. COSTUME ECONOMICS CLUB CHOOSER OFFICERS
Betty Calvin as president. Dor­othy - Lutz . as- vice president and <f ; Florence aenny/as secretary, were 
ntly ¦. by
the. dleappolntmeihopes he had^ founded 
ntGGPd ^ P« > ¦ the .• ;. Parllamen (Contlnaed.oo Pag» Two)
Economics Club, membership In this ¡tubers junior or Senior-
Eligibility: f(«lub Is -limited of the Sophoi 
classes In the Costume Economics Department who have paid tbe as-id -fees.
. -Tlieée. foes go mostlv toward the maintenance' of a.. Scholarship awarded; annually to one' of-Us
slectlon.1 A grea 
the studo'ntB fallcd to cast a ballot 
last wook 'especlnliy '.In the men’^ 
schools but Blnco a definite selec­
tion has been mndo the voting to­
morrow should be heavier.
Plana for tbe Coronation of the Iall2lng' gradually
This should ¦
I last mini
of tho setting ÍÁ
trlous •^Tfie <jui
he Coronation. Is proving difficult one whether to hold It hi* tho Opeii Air Theater as usual, or change the locatloh.ln favor’of no more- .desirable 'place on
lowing:
Arts School: J. terney, W. H. Schelçk, P. K. Schell;. H. Hoi ster, and /R. A. Schmidt. Indus* tries School: G. turner, J.'. E.Mueller, S. Mlolzlnér, J. Ho John­son, and J. W. Slòvull. Science jchool: R. W.-Hurd, Don Dalli«. L. Fnhneslock, D. H.. Callen, and W- P. Murdoch. Margaret Morri­son College: Francos Keisor, Jean
thestill unde
N.Y. Evening Post Holding 
Student Essay Contest
the „student,believes responsible for the so-called 'wave” of mental' .depression mr colleges' and schools was ealed today when, tho New Y< Svenlng ' jln7 began’ printing ieries of prlze<wlnnlngarticles rom college men and worn* mswer to the qu68t]on. .“Hai
undergraduate a post-
C. W. SHOW AND CAST 
¿SELECTED THIS WfEK
' though as-yet the Campus Weoii Show committee does not wish to dlyulge the nanie, .it has been an- houucod'tliat' tho production has been definitely , signed up and the Chosen play will be given. Ttje I Student Couiicll has passed on the budget,' and Ch'alrmari Walt Rog­ers' will complete tho casting of the show this weelc.
tho business staff has be tlcularly actlvc In carrying pre-Easter plans. An ex.^.—.w publicity iampalgn. liichidlng the utilization of large bill: boardi, window cards and posters, the Pittsburgh and New Yoi *
ar netfrosis?“In all the aril iiblicatlons.“- say "It-Is apparttho
r offehas led. the student to put tot? words .what he has had In mind for 
.The. views evpressed' here,-and. In succeeding artleli e bred of mature-thought”Some of the causes to whidi. udents attribute the melaucholy- ate ot their fellow under* os are summarized - as •; laxity hastened by tlie World 'lack of understanding be- areuta and children.” American, undergraduate- has oo much of lire, bas lived [utckly, has. grown old- ioo: s youth ¦ bas attemptedI.theurfacidig .
from.life than hls ancestors." more than one Instance the irlng of religious: convictions Is gltfen. as the reason; ''StudentR believe-in God," says one letter. "Science has destroyed for the- comfortable. world • of . a iven and « .Hell,- Is-another ex plantation'. 'The. student Is not nifferlng from a post-war neurosis' 
nit from a worn-out creed of ¿alle­giance: I was commanded to bo- sve,¦ writes a .thlrd’undorgradu*
For each -article - published.- The -Evening Poet makes' an '-award of >10 and Yor.Jhe.best. ftlcle. a'prlze >f;|100 -will be given.- .- The winner ot.the; fiOO howevervwlll not be an* >)inc«d until: all iftlclB under oon-.
andirllsing1 :ll iaunclbeen •* operatloithe.stair espccta
cllitiiWith the , cal.merchi have the play 
-thou In the'past.'
been definitely signed also. Mr John , Harding of tho Drama De­partment; has contracted to handle the technical end of tho work arid Mr.. Theodore Vlehntan, also of the Department, will serve' as the dm* matlc. director. Tho work of these ~nen le familiar to all Carnegie stu- lents acquainted with Uie drama m-the .campus, and the committee eels very fortunate for having so- cured their services. •
held 1n this considered better smaller LIttlejTli
COUNCIL GRANTS PETITION OF BAND TO GIVE CONCERT
At the Student'Counclt meeting ist Thursday; March 31, several important matters came up. Per­mission was.given the KiUlc Band
Week Vaudovllle Show for this year, and well-known to tbe patrons of ?past;û8seniblie3, 'là glr* Ing a humorous discussion on Cani- pus Week Dirt. Pete’s aot wlU^be true to hie torm, (ind highly Inter­esting. Two; colobrltles of ths Art School, Cam Young.of tho Drama Department, nud .Horry Cobon, ‘the . piano wizard of tbe Music Dopart- mont. aro offering «'Musical- Mo­ments," a collection of ."hot” nuni* ¦
: As 'the feature of.jibo assembly ' 
the managora ' havo secured "The Student Vagabonde." a seyon-pleco orchcstrn under, tho . dlroctlon of Oaenr Norboclt, glviug a. short pro­gram of popular numhéra .The'sa v hnve boon playing; in: 
nû tho city for-sbme time, i hit wherever Ufoy ap- ¦ 
iPtiearnnce will bo • .
Il. ehow thot the aéaornbly is to tv ohe of entertainment only, and,' ihould prove lnterostlng to every- ; onc. All studoiits shoutd try to attend tndoy's -.nssombly asVthore 
.'Vl)I probably .bo several^lmporlant -, nnnouncoments concérnlng school affairs 1n generai, and parUcularly, propuraatlons for CampuB Weok.
PREPARATIONS BEGUN 
FOR C. W. SWEEPSTAKES
Meeting of Fraternity Dele­
gates Called For Today.
: Spring Is In tbe-alr, young men's thoughts aro-not turning to lovb, but Campus Wook Is . on . the hori­zon, 'and' the various '.committees are sterling .the. . .work-^.that- .will flr«lly culminate in: the; greatest effort; - that1' Carnegie .'has ' yet dlK- plaÿed for the jollification and wel- iming of the ^returning hlumiil. 1th CànipÙB - ’ Weok -coma§' tho great Groek Raclh'g Classic,- better -
•tf of explanatloi to. thiB .ninch talked of event. -,it ked by a wave 'of second childhood 1 sweeping over the fra­ternities, in. which each; fraternity, builds 'a pu'shmobllc; and", assem- 
strong barcks;nnd weak minds';of their group to.push this act-called automobile, over a course competition «gainst, the.seyerat. lèr, Greek brotherhoods; The; trac will bo tho same as last ir, namely, starting In front of rgaret Morrlsoii and piishlng uii . tho top of the gym hill, .where pushers wilt 'change ttnd. the' ecc- nd lap begun. This, lap will bo . town' through Schonléy Pnrtt to- tho. base of Industries Hill, whora the pushers again change. Tho third man power will take It up to the top of Industries. Hill, and thé fourth man will carry on fcopi that -- the finish in front of Mor* orrlson. At this point it is well to say that as these con­ests are ,usually extremely close: di. bookiqakers are banned from ., he. course, as any large sum of 
money placcd on an. entrant'iplght
Alpha tau. the Industries Scholar-' ship Honoraryfor- the -wlnnerVof . yeiiti:wos won by Pl -Kappa Alpha In .record time. The second 
ir.tlie; one-presented-for-the best , looking, pushmoblle ,w^nt to.-.;
i Ma':theAlvin. Tjj«
>w:under. way.:.' The' re­vised budget of the Men’s Senior Jail, was .read^-and aiiproved' Mr: Tierney repo'rted. that the-work of ¡olleciing. signatures In connection 
debtlls-progrfs’i
ing: very, nicely o' Avsug^estlon.hv '*Vurtz-forv;a<memorial fountain: he campyB,.-; was ; d)scussed. The r«malnder;or>.ths-meeM^was taken up. wjth, the jc>lslon of the
)recedin.iAlpha Tau Omega.'. The |Kappa, Sigma won . tbe racing cup,, and- Delta Tau Delta wou the- design trophv.
.In-.formeiti-years the crowds as- «embled.vtp watch the race proved -• .unmanageable by the .Alumni>PogT lice. Force.,so this .year :the R- O: • T.C.;. :lia!> offered assistance to - combat this problem.
.As sonie questlons have, come up*' In previous yealrs as to the 'ebange'i-
this line At the changing i 
wlll^bc drawn two «hlte'l(ift»ts (Oinl Iinnd Ol Pag« Two)

---------------------------------------------------

"Dont kt bMt tbe dertl!" «*¦ claimed tfeelnp *0 Nunnl-.won the Hade* 900 'metér.-^Oberhn 
Review. . ''• ••»
In Later Life
Early habits are enduring one Begin now to acquire thooe < saving and aCcttrrlulating .morie; 
An account with the Mellon Ni tlenal Bank will give you splendid .»tart. Persistent ®a< Inea will develop financial Indi pendence. The experience, I say nothing of the money Itael
MeUon National BankPlitsb^h. Pa.
SF CATERING 
Prices Reasonable
That our, Refresluneut 
Entertainment is most de­
sirable for Fraternity ond 
ell other School Affairs, 
experience will convince.
Small orders Teceive tlie 
‘ same careful attention as 
thé more extravagant
ELLIOTTS 
4010 Fifth ,Ave. 
Store is Convenient 
for Students’ 
Supplies
SBtoblleb- _ Jl nelil- iQd Is Blocked. . _____adtsetheir studies.
We reciprocal« with,low price tentlon.
Two.Luncheons Held 
Locally Last Week
Inter-School Alumni and 
Pittsburgh Clan Both 
Meet, and Eat
Several luncheons were held lo­cally by alumni. An' Intercollegi­ate Alumni Dinner was held Wed- needay»evening, March 30, at the Hotel Scheoley, and Saturday tbe Pittsburgh Clan had Its regular 
monthly : luncheon at the William Penn Hotel.
Carnegie Tech had a fair repre- 
»llegiate-, and Dr. Bai
attondance 
In all then
Ask Me Another
:l 7-
i arid, Í0. g Pic- •
s This I 12.
Mr. Suíllvun or Pen briefly in bohulf ( leglato Alumni Hoi
1 were pleased to cl >iie time instructors. Beatty, president
my of Pittsburgh. Thos<
“Aslc Me Another,” wlll'keep you Informed about ' Carnegie. Send your queries to tbe Tartan Office, and.they will be answered, ir we-Tall the faculty promises its erudite assistance. Try to answer the questions this week and watch for the answers next issue.'
1. What is . the Carnegie
Foundation? x
2.' Who was the “Laird of 
Skibo?”
3. What was the first frater­
nity organized on the 
campus? ’
4. Who designed the Car­
negie Buildings.
5. What is a Charette?
6. Why are the Girls’ Dor- 
. mitories named, after trees?
How many links are there 
o,n the Carnegie Chain? 
Who originated "the idea 
of the Arts Ball?,
Who composed the in­
scription above the stage 
in the little theater, "Ici 
¡'inspiration deploye ses 
ailes?”
What was the purpose oi 
the car tracks on Wood- 
lawn avenue?
What was Langley Labor­
atory used for during the 
war?
Why..was the Tunnel built 
under the Campus? Where 
does it run?
Are the Men’s Dormito­
ries named after Carnegie students?
When was the first Cam­
pus Week held? Who was 
the first Campus Queen? 
What . was the original 
intention of tbe Grill?
GIRLS’RIFLE TEAM 
DEFEA1S PENN-STATECLAN NEWS
The Girls’ Rifle team has finished Us season in a mo6t fitting man­ner. by defeating; the Girls’ Rifle team of Penn State which is gen­erally-accepted as one of’the best in the .country. 'The match .was exceedingly close, being- lost, or rather won, by one point. Penn Slate scored 49C out of a possible
Carnegie can weU be proud ot her Girls’ Rifle team this year. Al­though this was the first year of intercollegiate competition, the girls lost only three matches out of approximately 20 shots. The Universities of Kansas and ;Cin-
?embers of the Tulsa ClAn guests of Mr. and Mrs. A. J. and Mr. and Mrs. H. G. Tex- it Uie' homefoC<Mr. and Mrs.-
ip Suey a la Lottie with rice biscuits was the piece de anco. After a moBt. enjoy-
guests spent several ‘.hours playing bridge.J Those present were:I Mrs. H. n. Auerswald ,
¡13.
salive aidsold.¦ pills
'Iiat lengthy but highly h' leertatlon upon after dim« ig. pro and con, be mat
eers. He showed that engineer ig was the oldest profession on irth, and then proceeded to eluc* ate the fact that people do not claate the engineer of today.
nginets Is due to the
r Maryland barèly '
toff, George Ellertou and others noted lor their promioence in athletics and - student activities during their careers at Carnegie.TJIbrook announced apprecia­tion of tbe large turnout of prep students' and faculty ; and later gave some idea of the plans on-
ERIE CLAN
On Friday evening, Marcli 25th. the Erie. Pennsylvania Clan enter­tained Graduate Manager Clarence Orerend at a dlnuer In the Yv 51. C. A. T. Harrison Reed tbe presi­dent presided aud there were about forty members of the Erie Clan that turned out for the evening. Quite a number of teachers and students and teachers from • the Erie High School -»ere there us
«oll wHI k$ 
•eh «tvtfent who Pr*- ad when purchasing a <n at Singer Pen & Gift ina Arcade. Ooea your 
ted repairing? Take It
First Church of Christ, ScientistClyde Street. Near'Fifth Avenue Sunday, 11 A. M. and 6 P. M. Wednesday. 8 P. M. Snaday School. 11 A. M. •
Church olths Ascension_______(Episcopal) ^
Cor. Ellsworth and Neville
Vesper Servie
EX- clan.
of America.
I high point scorer.lelen Bright, Alice Bright. Jeany and Florence Shapiro all have
iis section were present. Carroll, counected with ; Mfg. Company of Alii-
Leah Kellei le Servlck. I yji Shulls,
¦•ear’s football team
FLOYD IM. JACOBS
3006/2 FORBES STREET 
akland Pittsburgh, Pa.
moving pictures of tbe i Iball games, with Univt Pittsburgh, New Yo
Cliff Restaurant
1Ch urcol tsAer uosnno
dlCIOGlClUTP 5uÄ
USED IN COLLEGE 
THAN ANY OTHER MAKE 
OF PORTABLE 
Before ..the days of Corona illese work was wrlfc Now every* ritten. You’ll, work In every world. ' Mon today than all* of portable« ne In and see el. it Is the portabfe type-
»n by filng is typev
only $60.00. We also have
nas as low'as $25.00. STANDARD TYPEWRITER COMPANY 
129 FIFTH AVENUE 
Atlantic 0342
winch the sco liest men wer :a, 195; Essig,: and Whitmci ¦li. .Brodel) ha employ of Hi 
el Corporation''and >rl vacation befor«
Ceni
be allowed to t until It has eros
ond white line, qualified.Letters have
2. What is to glbfllty of pushei . 3. Wether the.
i tlie Pittsburgh Polle
e of the 
i Depr.rt-
n the Restora- ) he sat
ive talks before high school eritsof the city, explaining tlie neers how, where, and wliat. lie modem business world. r remarks by Slilnkle, jokes by
lesion-was held concerning 5 for'a summer outing of the
iere will be another monthly
Judgiti 
bone of
s behavior Samp- re than the jaw
ESTABLISHED ENGLISH UNIVERSITY 
. STYLES. TAILORED OVER YOUTHFUL 
CHARTS SOLELY FOR DISTINGUISHED , 
SERVICE. IN THE UNITED STATES.
©Kwtev House
StaHa an4 Tepetate 
*40, *48, *SO
e BY SPECIAL APPOINTMENT
' OUR STORE IS THE __
Charter Jfcouse3
OF PITTSBURGH 
The character of the suits and 
topcoats tailored by Charter House 
«rill earn your most sincere1 liking.
. MORRIS’S
Permanent Display^ Booms 
Saite 270 Webster Hall
Sms
^n at last to compost m he was the embl lassloned adherent ol
/e been held o i traditional v. i it tbe great
ilttee are made up of the fol- consciously taken the side of Sa-. g men: Fred Woods,' chair-'tan and the rebel angels.Campbell. Buckley. S.chmirt! In “Samson Agonlstes” the pas- Dean. With such a capabte1 sionate poet spoke again and as of workers, the Sweepstakes I In "Paradise LosL” there is the d : prove even a greater • sue- same ’ divergence between the ex-
effect.- The them
This fOne). ,jtor 
prises of dr« Wally Poyntz, Pete Rygg. George for Harry Cohen and Joseph- the rail, yietor Eslcer who It. aed the choruses ot the I Du
spirit oí it is i tion of the go apparently v
last 1indie the
I Ball
y novel feature of thi; How will be the presenta i heavy (235 lbB. per per ima, by the varsity foot q. Selections for the acti In after the' cast tor Uu Week show has beei
(Continued «Tom t*aee One) cille Z. Galmlsh. V. N. XJnderwooi R."E. Neibel, W. L. Wllmer, Sai Simpson, Milton Cohen, - T. ( ;,_and-V. F. Hasenberhl, is a
r whlcl) Mil Lon t
Although Milton iristlan. poet, Dr Ined that he was
.SCHENECTADY
Schenectady Clun
Wednesday evening.Eleven members wei ereet Bi^ddy Overcn Yoder, as well as to ii
The report of Uie
following^ officers ale dont. J. M. Sampson,President. J. L Secretary-Trensi ¦26. Members of the executive Cbmmltte. Mrs. ''Robert Wheeler, M. M.. and E. G. Royston. E. ’23.- Io. the president. Schenectady has a very active aUimnus. While
Knight.
f theoriginal founders of the Tar­ing the first business mana- Vfter graduation, he became st president of th? Science
guest Mr. Stoddard. .Superiot dent ' of the Schencctady Schoi Arter short talks by Buddy ! Lloyd, th^ remainder ot the ev
ent. having left the' parly a York.lose present * included J. L rht' W. E. Caven. L. E. Hughes L Johnson. Ray Gill.. C. M :st, F. 0. Stebbins, all o ¦nectody. and Mr. ' and Mrs >. Pitt9. Mrs. Robert Wheclei . Raystpu: of, Albany.
PHILADELPHIA
Philadelphia Clan it party In its his light. Mar.the
triumph ot the
Oakland 
Savings ft Trust 
Company
Member Federal 
Reserve System
“The Oakland Bank'*
Capital-----$300,000.00
Surplus-----,$300,00
Deposits Over 
$5,000,000.00
negienhia district. To thi!students, cot ere invited I
or thé Af­reet, Pht!a<
fertlse Car- Idely in the Phitadel-
iches
Wayne, Pa.. Camden. New Jersey and suburbs. Central High School,' Germantwon HJgh School. West Philadelphia High School, German- ‘town Academy. Haverford School; Chestnut Hill Academy, Northeast High School, La Salle Prep. St. Joseph's Prep.After a delightful dinner and get-together meeting, the assem­blage was called to order tiv Gil­more L. Ttlbrook in the absence
RAINCOATS FOR MEN AND WOMEN
Men’s; $6.00—Color: Grey.Women’s, $6.50—Colors: Blue, Lilac, Green and 
red.Auf hammer and Evans
6100 PENN AVENUE"
In a Little Spanish Town
How delightful! 'When the music' strikes up and. ' you. waltz ,with the girl of your dreams to the strains.of “In'a Little Spanish .Town," played by your favorite orchestra and you are dressed correct­ly lu a; finely tailored tuxedo rented from
Whittington Dress Suit Co.
• What could be more delightful 
«002-3-4 JENKINS ARCADEPHONES \
Oay—Grant 2604 Night—Lafayette 4701 A
^ Florida 
Director
trip foi
Carnegie ' and the:ourses given there and then jenlightening talk on tl n engineering as Interprc
1928 all-aptaln,troduced, and spoke, ot his appre­ciation ot the athletic conditions at Carnegie, especially of 'our' coaching and training staff.
"Buddy” Overend'then' present­ed several reels of movies contain- ing last season’s 'football games with Pitt. New York University
Dy several nunurea suaea ot t cample,' building, .interior, and a dent’ viewa and .buddy's commei andstories.were thoroughly ei joyed by evoryone present ¦ The meeting was followed I dancing in the main-dining :rooi of tbe: Arcadia. Cafe. Among the promtnent alumni . present • were noted Jimmy Robertson.' Earlr. 
"Chuck Charles. Colonel Frank P. Day, “Dutch? - Kreider. -Ben Krla-
tcretary visited Buitalc tbe pleausn ,ir of the city and Niag-
larence : Overenti oder, they both mat nd' then Overend j
i MEN’S SENIOR BALL
(Continued From Page One.) The ticket sale has been um ¦-ay'for almost- a week, and the esiring tickets should purcht hem immediately and be sufe fee well spent in the pursuit
. STANLEY-ROWSTRAND
.AND-CLARK’SMANOR
April 6 and 7
“Stage Madness” 
VIRGINIA VALLI
“What Every Girl 
Should Know” 
PATSYRUTH MILLER
“Casey. At The Bat”
WALLACE BEERY“Wild Oals Lane”
VIOLA DANA 
ROBERT AGNEW
Saturday '
KEN MAYNARD 
“The Unknown 
Cavalier”
“The Great Gatsby”
WARNER-BAXTER“The Great Gatsby”
WARNER BAXTER
GET YOUR SJUDENT TICKETS FREE AT TARTAN OFFICE
CAMEO—NOW.
FIFTH AVENUE. Downtow
CARL LAEMMLE, JR. presents
“The CoUegians”(The CIndei
lelightful series i College Ufe
LAURA LA PLANTE 
"THE LOVE THRILL”
- LEARN TO DANCE
Jacques School of 
DancingCRAIG AMD FORBES.6TS. 
Beginners Monday and Fri­day Evenings. Adv&oced, Thursday and Saturda
by appolntmer ¦ MayflQN
lessom
-4—
S TANLE Y-RO WLAND-CLARK’S
Evening«: Flr&t FlooreCHENLEY
^• THEATER •
WEDNESDAY AND THURSDAY, APRIL 6 AND 7“That Model From Paris'
MARCEUNE DAY—BERT LYTEI&
FRIDAY AND SATURDAY, APRIL 3 AND 9“CASEY AT THE BAT»»
WALLACE BEERY—FORD STERLING
I MacQUARRIE I ^
1Churco lrt1rsAer n iEES
— 7 GIRL HARPISTS —
AY AND TUESDAY, fePRIL'11 AND 12Butterflies In the Rain»*
LAURA LA PLANTE
The natural choice—
Out of the whole lot men pick 
Chesterfield for its genuine tobacco 
character—its natural good taste.
Get-the natural char- 
.. acter of fine tobaccos in 
>your. cigarette— aad 
V yoa-get evetything!
IiGGrrrAc EiAHPOlnTgGm 7l

---------------------------------------------------

BUTLER’S
jLu nAppAC srClGACIAP414 SOUTH CRAIG STREET Wo Pallver All Order».- £ J. O. BAKER,. Manager Mayflower 7644,. , .
, REGAL -Direct 
University Service, 
from Coast to Coast
Come in and look over the new Regal line of special 
college models. They are 
recognized as thestandard 
of style end value from 
coast to coast.
The Shoe illustrated is the' 
Eli—an English Brogue in 
Genuine Imported Tan 
, Heather Grain. The single 
? hole perforations are a new 
\ style Feature—also in. 
1 Black. . , .
7/ib nmv "RBSCO** Fitting Sot vice used exo/usiV9jy.
REGALSHOES
at 4:30 tbe first 
ent scheduled-for. the annual lo* 
riraternlty track meet will bo 
ImN Tbe-. events will continue 
throughout Wednesday and Thurs- 
igs and .include.the. fol- 
lowing« vents:
100-yard dash, 225-yard dash, 
440-yard, dash, half mile run, mile 
120-yard low hurdles, 120- ligb hurdles, one mile rela;
ing. hlgli
As usual., these races will be rim under tbe watchful eyo of Coach Guy Halferty who hopes to strengthen, bis varsity and plebe outflts with material uncovered by the two-day meet. The track is in fine sbap\ and the numerou tries indicate keen competltl the various events.
Stem Leoae. Sweden, Byria, and Turkey..
THE 1NTRA MITRAL BASKET DA-LL. FINALS are over, will) I match held between Carnegie Tech, lalmed as the Victor. And thus is the dope bucket Pitt and Penn State on Carnegie’s indicated Sigtna Nu or range last. Saturday. It was. a 
three position match consisting ot ’ ’" ¿.prone, Kneeling and st&nding. Ther tbe-loss ot their.. Sig's late____march through thè seriestriumphantfrom the spectator’s point too had-that the deciding gaiwas tot Alpha Tau Omega’s fault. They deserve ci playing the game, with but one regular physically lit.
THE ANNUAL INTRA tylURAL tmplijneet will be and Thursday in. the-.Carnegre>bovil.NAIl fratei
maVbe^n "unknown^lrm' iJTour'mldl^S'l
itlfy. 'The only regret or a possible 1,500 pointa; Carnegie. Is thatjast game. It was certainly 11.392; Pitt, 1,366..'
did. But It w. D. Catnpbeli, Carnegie Toch's !Ven I high mian. had tbe highest indlvjd- J ual score In tbe match with '289 out .rew or .a jiossible 300. . .This was Eve
¦edit for I
tbose of football and <
BETA THE A Pi w< Saturday. Much good m
IN ACCORDANCE <
' State. Another kn<
.'and id orma -arel points .better -’itan, the nearest, 
et will disclose. Burns, a Peun State man, made a
t, satura ta .h, tod r..», '"tS.S"'0' 1W “ blS lme0'-it in thti Panther's tall, along side 1D? P®».1«®“1
iura! :ming i, held
ALL LEAGUE TEAMS
Raymond Bundi
(kW outstanding
Tourist phICm cABiK serviceto
$ a,f95l">" «S’
In our fieets you have the choice of 
1. The only i
TRIP
,(«p)
^ The largest shije carrying Tornisi Third Cabapss-.
5* ' The laigest . by any ,nG
These are but the tangible RptN^NN^^N .. which has delighted thousand! of eollegc men ana woms in recent years.
Early reservatum oj spate is letommnded-
' WHITE STAR LIMERED STAR LINE LEYLAND LINE ATLANTIC TRANSPORT UNE
sy (ATO) (Scob). <PKA) (SAE) (Scob)
sy (DTD >m (BSR len (SN)
r(PK) Hy (PK) Kin (DU) i0h (BTP)_
o, McGill;Cappa Sign ,oe, Sçobell
s. PI Kappa Alpha. Federal League— Kilgoi u Delta; Rechemeuer, Sigma Nu; Knutsoi urn, Kappa! Sigma Rho. ' American League- in; DodgeJ Delta Upsilon; Bronson, Theta timid, Phi Kappa; J. Woods, Phi Kappa.ALL SCHOOL TEAMS :lze1ter, Phi Kappa........... Forward......ickley. Alpha Tau Omega.... Forward.........Connelly. 
..High, Bet.¦5SS
much thought <
ycEVbsd$2 .0N
a mighty got 
ability,. Allei
M.M. SOPHS BEAT 
ARTS’ GIRLS 11-8
Sophomores captured the 
basketball championship by 
defeating the Fins Arts team 11-8. 
The 9opbs lost year as Plebes con- 
erred the same honor upon their 
:Iass when they defeated all their Opponents. ' This year, again, the earn was undefeated'. The Soph outfit, which..la the same..as last, year with the exception of several substitutes, 'displayed a much su­perior brand By .basketball this year both ' individually, and collec­tively. The team consists of Dot Hill and Gladys Connor, forwards; ~ ' ude Zenk, center; Rene La e, ' side center, and Betty hall and Dot Roy. guards,' Harriet » Felsenlhal, . Helen et. and Fran Guy substitut-
e championship game was unsually close and hard fought start to finish, both teams do- great deal of fumbling. The
INTRA-MURAL WON 
BY KAPPA SIGMA
Several Close Games in the 
Finals--A Number of 
Players Injured
The Intra-Muml basket bnl soir closed. last Saturday with Kap­pa Sigma, the victors'. Up t finals, little notice fiad been pal0 to the Kappa .Slgs, but/this ' proSatly aiie to^he i'acic of very good teams on', the schedule, making it unnecessary! for them show the quality of basket, ball which they were capable.. . In t finals tliey were requlretl. to ,play the strong 'Phl\ Kappa,;'A. , T. C and Sigma Nu ¿earns, and (t wi
dcfec¦athe
• OUB AOVERTISERS
C.W. READING• . i * from forester to store manager
jMeto^lUlX)umT7o1lam‘x\\t flveralli^Vhey laughed at tne'Voc buslneas of wood pracrvation «l(S. «Ivina up an aloeK aute thing r« go - a company whote^taldeM m a to wotkfot a big corponileft «beta
S2Erfi,!'"Al
S^^Ss^rKsSSifi ¦ fKfisrfflJSs'JSiKSss;'-
% * » *¦Now; Seniors^ » 
its up to You!
- Your college career will soon be over. And then you must choose.your life Work. How 
important‘it is that you get started right. 
And'ir is. entirety up. to you! You may start 
in a position that gays well now, but which - 
offers.litde or no opportunity for advancement. 
Or you. may start for si little less in a Job 
where there is' much to lcam, but which.offers 
an unlimited future-to those who are faithful 
¦ and willing to work and study hard.
'We «tart college men at the.bottom. But’as 
they learn and advance we pay them more. In 
a few years they may become store managers— 
dignified positions which pay. high salaries. 
If you are interested in the job with a future, 
'write now'to our Personnel Department. We 
will send a man who has already found success 
with this organization, a graduate of your own 
college-' to meet you and tell you more about 
•our business. ,¦ : -i
/ Personnel Dept
S S KRESGE CO9* lO' XJ4 5TOI\EJ• OÍ»A>‘12á ÍTOIVE5
KRESGE BUI LDIN. G . D ET HO IT-vs ¦ .M I-Ç H^-.G ;A N
d the lead 
at the second quarter, but Phi Kappa gradually forged ahead mainly through tho excellent has ket shooting or Letielter and Con nelly. In the second quarter, with the score tied. Woods and Rlttci were taken out,- • thereby ntaklnp Phi. Kappa'® victory much more difficult. Bush .and Keuster play ed a good game for tlie ¿v r. O.’u In the Sign a. Nu game that. the 
liappa Sias' first showed themselve? to b'e formidable contenders for the cnp. This was a highly inter; eating game with both sides play: Ine fast, rough and very ¿ood bas­ket ball. Lestle, Allen and West played a brilliant game. Tor the 
KaDpa Slgi
feat
defeated the A. T. O.’s by one^polnl III a fast and rough game, with the A. T. O.’s in the lead up to the
ufTered ;
a. t. o;eral Injuries. Buckley ed, vrlth a cracked breast bone. and'Keuster with Injured ankle. ^On Saturday afternoon' Kappa Slgma won their final game by wal­loping the A. T. O.’s. The A. T. O. team put up a good fight consider­ing that Bush. Keuster and Brod- beck and.Buckley., were not laying.. The Kap'pa Sigs displayed excel­lent team work, and outplayed the . Ai T. O.’s In every way. mounting \ up a lead of 32 points. Allen, Leslie and West continued their brilliant playing and Turner, Co'wan . and Aaher played a good game for tbe A. T. O.’s.- - The larre «up goes : to Kappa Slema. while Phi kappa.,.Alpha Tau Obiega and Sigma Nu «ach rereive a smaller cup. -Thls'closes
hoped .that next 2 basket ball.seaso
Kappa plmoa .
I of the Final»,
phl-itoppa^.. '.-Alpba Tau.'Omega .
. KappaSIgmj,.
i beforeand Ilahdlcppped them. Carnogle Tecli closed Us vine sca­li with this mutch. Tho varsity .9 lost only three matches out or
id these Were all lost by narrow
1 (Vest Virginia.)his brachlopods.—Athena-
HAVE YOU TRIED OUR PUNCH FOR YOUR bANCE?
Thi* Coupon and. 40e wlll ' ' «ntHle you tcr'a 50o-dlnner. 
THURSDAY EVENING 4:30-8:00 P. M.
TRY OUR 3Be LUNCH 
Speolal — Pastries with Fra« ternlty letter« for occasions.
xStunrall’s Tea Room .
571D FORBES STREET Phone Sclienley 931B
David; Klafer^u asked (he 1U1< sol« stale legislature tor I10.G00.» 000 with* which to carry - oa the work of. the Loiverslty of-Illinois lor the next two years. Os« and oce-half' million dollars of. that
Tho most the avengra chemistry students know,, about nitrates Is lhai they are cheaper \ thaa day
Yourself and Sriends Are Invited to
DANCE
Every Saturday Evening at the New
Central Athletic Association
CLUB HOUSE, CRAIG & FILLMORE SIS. 
Tommy Dixon’s “Sultan’s of Tempo"
Trni>[
future-demund for
; controlling ihe
s iii the methods of iclois Influencing the ‘ of coal iu different
(Continued from Page One) dents enrolled with the exception 
of New.Hampshire and Wyoming which -have one each.Of tlie .71 foreign students reg-' isteted,'Canada Jeads.wlth.l£. Pal­estine is second on the list with eight and China, is third with ilve. Mcxico and India have four each, while Porto Rico, Russia and Scot­land have three each. Other coun­tries with one or more.of their native eone and daughters enroll­ed /» Pittsburgh's colleges are Ar­gentine, Brazil, British West Indies, Egypt, England, France, Germany, Greece, Hungary, Italy, Japan. Netherlands. NorwaylPhll-
Modern smoking pleasure 
that never fails
THB smokers of this age are the most will 
. independent ever known. Accepting 
no hearsay! they have smoked oiit the 
• facts. They have- learned that the 
choicest Turkish and Domestic to- 
baccos grown are roUed into Camels, 
that here Is .the incomparable blend-'
never fail you, never give you 
but the finest thrill of smoking I*» nann.pleasure. This'is why; Camel's popu­
larity! by far the largest in the modern 
world» keeps overwhelmingly in the 
lead. As modem taste b&comes nWc 
insistent upon" choice tobaccos, in- 
ing for goodness» that Camels simply creasing millions discover Camels in- 
never tire the taste..comparable mildness, smoothness and.
¦ Camel is the d^arette that, never mellowness, i.
faib to please the moden^ age. Re- - If you want the cigarette that*fi 
gardlfss of how often you want the good^ to live with front worn. to m\A., 
comfort of a smoke» of how steadily night» the one that is the choice of the
you light one after another, Camel modern age, <r-ComeW”
uN 4N uÄvDL2BY OLW577L 7LEj5Dvf g9DYOLDgY52Wd— DN 7N
“A chain is as strong cs its weakest link
You use automatic machines. You employ quantity methods of productibn. But how about your fuel?
Remember this. Any uncertainty in the application of heat, strikes at the very heart- of quantity production 1
Automatic machines call for automatic fuel. Gas. is just that. It is 100% controllable. With gas« you can. increase or decrease the quantity of heat—-instantly—to suit the exac t 
speed of production.
The result is : maintenance of.'production schedule, uniformity of product» and fullest 
economy. Have you yet investigated the merits of gas for your plant? , j 
.Write tothe American Gas .Association, for information ori what gas is doing for others 
in your line of business'. . /
American Gas Association
, 342’Madison Avenue» New York City ,
YOU CAN DO IT BETTER WITH GAS
.ÄISÜ
iÉËÉÉI

---------------------------------------------------

non dTpp
..iBSaEag
EDITORIAL STAFF '
Editor-lii-Chler ...................Merrill HoUtnaheadManaging Editor..*...'...............................Sam-WellNewe Editor.1.......................................Frwda Kolb :'Athletic Editor..........Frederick D. Wood«
\ CONTRIBUTING .EDITORS 
Ellenor Tallmadge Robert M. PewRnasall BnHlsger .. • -Harold Jacobson- -Ralph Hltcicock Barto GriffinA- J5. Fisher ; ; •- Eugene ScanlonW. Bernard N
JUNIOR EDITORS Meredlthi Stump - Milton CobenFenton Finn , Jean'Boy -
, ALUMNI EDITORS ¦ .Margaret Kossell- Herbert Gran
JUNIOR ASSISTANTS .
Florence MeLaugbUo , Helen ReedJosephine Clark 4/ Jobn Schneider 
REPORTERS Stewart Ralston Bob Young Clyde ParkJoseph O. Ritter Miriam Ms Harry Wldom Henry Dux Cyril Letzelter Roth Brain
William McNeil H^e Katharine O'Donnell 'Jacob Carpe Bower Maze N Carl Kumpf
w "In Sprin(jr--ÊtEy
BUSINESS STAFF
CirculationAdvertising Manager.....................Sbelby McMUUon
BUSINESS ASSISTANTS James Seibert T. R. Zenk R. Nobltf
CIRCULATION ASSISTANTS
|sari&3££j 
ss’r.arir*mum day rate under the Jackson­ville agreement la 57.50 a day.
SSsESSS
The United Press says (in the editorial section
^«»o.’a'sifìjrss.'srì«Sam en 0.1,». te» years into the futura. . I 
STUDENT, j I
COAL STRIKE GIVES PROMISE OF LONG LIFE
asrjTLÆMïthe union operatore were able toit is true that when they try to ex.
PAJAMAS
In thejMk'Modern Manner«S
—you’ll find them here, in a 
selection as wide and varied 
and interesting as the fads 
and whims and new crea­
tions of fashion can-make it. 
Two-piece or thvce-piece— . 
however you will—in prints, 
silks, satins, inctal cloths— 
endless variety!1
Prices from1 • ® .
$2.95 to $25.00_v.
' Joseph Horne Go]j
eaves the-Faceo. m$y
GLOVE-SMOOTH
F r^HE super-moist, saturated lather of.
. i X Williams Shaving Gream.does more 
than soak the beard bristles soft for easy 
. shaving. It docs more than lubricate the 
razor’s path—preventing little cuts and 
scratches. For Williams actually-^onditions '
>. the skin—leaves. it glove-smooth—gives 
you that barber’s massage feeling. Two 
. si2es—*3$c and 50c. v
Williams Slpying Cream
"meBtn ' ilwy do not like to 
told that their beloved author mm queer names tor hjs.•.characters,' and that a certain story about the Sphinx and the Centaur doe*n t' mean anything, and that/, another about' the Terrible Mud falls to. re­mind them of any mud they
It,, Is. divorced Jrom ethics? Is a sonnet about a raindrop worth as much, In the flnal-analysis, as a recipe (or bean soup, or, agalu,.la a
tbau the one which Is lost among;’ leaves? Is It better to eing about glory than Just to sing for the sake r singing? Is It will-to spend me dreomlng when we might be emmlng napkins, or bottling ichles, or cultivating cabbages, or building lien coops? And le It wlee listen to a man who ha» nothing tell but dreams, when we could 
¡t as conveniently lleteu to some- a who will show us how to lay
. because Plato himself tried to answer It, and could not do It, and that discourages me. There lave been only three men since the ¡olden Age a6 great as Plato, but bey are all dead now, so that we hall have to wait until another Is 10m, and when he Is old enough, iek him. There 16 a man in Vien­na whO'liao been trying all his life
mdw ".V il—¦her?®»;and ' r«-r«ad
the storr ot Thjujtobrttid the-J^w-- 
eldei\’tnd The Wpnderfal Widdow, and The Field, and. - Chabu aad 
Sheemlsh.~and The. Que«.m. /the • Queen-'s-Teats.' and>;the ‘Coronation-;, of Mr. Thomas Shapp, PomBo the ". IdolatoY. and the Bride of the Man*- Horse—and" forget'to goln/toeup- 
per. -ThlB Is their answer to the question. aud It cannot'.tie denf&i. tfcat It ia a.good one!.', j' *
We Haye Learned That it is 
Better to Use - ¦
Kissel Sfciles Rent a Car Service
For All Occasions
THREE STATIONS 
6107 Broad Street 655 Sixth AvenueHlland 1300 Grant 1900 %
125 Seventh Street student Passes Issued. .atAtlantic 466C Tartan Office
Carnegie Tech’s Smartest Dressed Men Wear the Celebrated
Suits and 
Topcoats
And Choose Them from the Exten­
sive Variety Shown by the 
Kaufmann & Baer Company
$40.00
$4SUOO
SSO.OO
t Society Brand clothes In the Coaserva- _ Vebster Hall on Marcft ,29th. . They cfx- . 
een admiration for the smartness of the 
beauty of the fabrics and patterns, and 
d. tailoring, 
the smartest of the Spring styles In • 
le new three-button coat Idea—with coin 
tulstandlng values at $40—$45 and $50.
KAUFMANN & BAER CO.PITTSBURGH UNIT OP
GIMBEL BROTHERS. INC.ftMMitonwm -CjMBil BROTHERS KvnMANNS'BtfMb
TO YODEK 
CAHNEOIE INST . OP
PITT3BOT0H PA 
;U HAVE FR0BAB1Y NOTICES THE 6HEAT P0PU1ABXTY OF OHE
-OWSIIB o P. TOB AC GO AMONG YOVH PHIENDäV/RO DEMAffl) 
PEHPEÖTIOK .IN PIPE i " THE HSiSOH IS THAT POE' 
TWENTY YSAH3 BIÜB BOAB I —"'«TO
OB' TASTE-WI
PEHFECTIOH IM PIPE aifc.—
TS/ÈHTY YKAH3 BICE BOAB HAS BEE1I SKUPOllï a—...I ¦
PROVIDE HOT OP TASTE'WITH A CUAIITY THAT IS BBYOKD
CRITICISM OB QTJESTIOH, ^ ^ \
THEHK is UTSRällY KO f g—
BETTES TOBACCO MAE*
THE AI.EHICâB TOBACCO CO
One nian tells another
i X-. >ï». -* kPw »«rè Ài -
