! Volume 90, Issue 10Carnegie Mellon University’s Student Newspaper Since 190613 November 1995
No silver lining...
Andrew McDermott/Tartan Photo Editor
Fans braved a cold drizzle In Gesling Stadium Saturday as the Tartans' playoff 
hopes fizzled. For more information, please see story, page 12.
THE TARTAN
Inside
Calendar..................................................L12
Classified...................................................L3
Comics.......................................................L4
Diversions...................................................L7
Forum...........................................................6
Living.........................................................LI
Sports.........................................................12
Sports
Rugby takes title • see 
page 12
Living
r r\
Whatever happened to the 
alumni? • see page LI
Porn debated at Pitt law school
Diversions
Lights! Camera! Film 
fest! • see page L7
Gov’t shutdown 
expected today
WASHINGTON, Nov. 11 
(AP)—President Clinton made 
a last-minute appeal to Repub­
licans today to avoid a govern­
ment shutdown but a meeting 
between his chief of staff and 
congressional leaders was can­
celed.
The president said he will 
not compromise on basic prin­
ciples and will refuse to accept 
deep cuts in Medicare, educa­
tion or the environment as a 
price of avoiding a government 
shutdown and default.
If the Republican-led Con­
gress stays on its present 
course, Clinton said in his 
weekly radio address, it will 
“plunge the government into 
default and force it to close its 
doors.”
He said it is not too late to 
back away from that scenario, 
and asked Leon Panetta, the 
White House chief of staff, to
present Republican lawmakers 
“with straightforward ideas to 
keep the government open.” 
But White House press sec­
retary Mike McCurry said later 
that the meeting was canceled 
because Republicans objected 
to Clinton’s request that Demo­
cratic legislators be invited to 
the session.
In the radio address, Clinton 
said: “I don’t want to shut down 
basic government services for 
the American people, butl can’t 
allow that to be used to force us 
to accept extreme budget mea­
sures that would violate our 
basic values as a people and 
undermine the long-term wel­
fare of the American people.” 
He vowed to oppose “new im­
mediate cuts to Medicare, edu­
cation or the environment as a 
condition of keeping the gov­
ernment open.
Please see SHUTDOWN, page 5
GOP capture of county gov’t not surprising, says analyst
News Analysis
ty JASON TOGYER
faria/i News Editor
While most CMU students paid 
ittle attention to last Tuesday’s 
tactions, Allegheny County vot- 
irs were busy making history.
For the first time in over 60 
rears, control of county govern­
ment is in GOP hands, despite a 
<•4 to 1 registration edge of Demo­
crats over Republicans.
Allegheny County is governed 
*y a three-member board of com­
missioners, elected at large. Vot­
e's select two candidates, and 
he top three are elected. By law, 
lQt all three commissioners can 
16 from the same party.
This year’s election was already 
lxtraordinary because only one 
^cumbent — Republican Larry
Dunn—was running for re-elec- 
tion. Longtime commissioners 
Tom Forester and Pete Flaherty 
lost the primary to State Senator 
Mike Dawida (D-Carrick) and 
newcomer Coleen Vuono after a 
series of scandals rocked county 
government.
But although Dawida was the 
top vote-getter, with 27.17 per­
cent, Dunn and running-mate 
Bob Cranmer, president of 
Brentwood Borough council, 
placed second and third, respec­
tively, giving them control of the 
county commission. Cranmer 
squeaked by Vuono with only 586 
votes, less than one-tenth of one 
percent of the total 656,127 votes 
cast.
Dawida and Vuono are demand­
ing a recount, citing “voting ir­
regularities,” but Dunn told the 
Pittsburgh Post-Gazette that in a 
county controlled by Democrats, 
he has “no reason to think any 
mistakes were made in our fa­
vor.”
Erik Devereux, an assistant 
professor of political science in 
the Heinz School and a political
analyst, said the upset was not 
too surprising.
“The polls showed that within 
a week of the election, it was too 
close to call,” said Devereux. 
“Given general patterns of Demo­
cratic Party dominance in the 
county, that alone should have 
told everybody that something 
major was going on.”
Devereux said that an analysis 
of county voting patterns, using 
voting data, the 1994 vote for 
U.S. Senator Rick Santorum (R- 
Mt. Lebanon) by municipality, 
and the median home sales price 
in each municipality, showed that 
party, registration is no longer a 
reliable indication of how people 
will vote.
“The vote for Santorum was 
almost 100 percent driven by, or 
related to, at least, home prices,” 
said Devereux. Communities 
where the median home price was 
above $75,000 were for Santorum, 
with only a few exceptions.
“That completely overwhelmed 
Democratic registration,” he said. 
“What that tells you is that the 
Democratic Party registration fig­
ures are not a particularly inter­
esting story.”
Devereux said that the county 
election was all about changing 
county government.
“The dynamic here in this elec­
tion was really quite interesting,” 
said Devereux. “It had to do with 
who was more believable as 
agents of change, and who, in
fact, was going to give lip service 
to change, but basically try to 
keep intact much of the existing 
county government.”
Among the factors that caused 
the defeat of the incumbents For­
ester and Flaherty in the pri­
mary were a series of highly-pub­
licized scandals involving county 
officials. These included allega­
tions against the director the 
county’s bureau of Children and 
Youth Services that eventually 
led to her resignation.
The county’s maintenance de­
partment also came under fire 
after a series of exposés by the 
Post-Gazette revealed that the 
department had secretly as­
sembled an impressive array of 
expensive emergency equipment.
“There was a sense that the 
existing county government was 
just a disaster. Now, that may or 
may not be true, but there is an 
image that it is a disaster, ineffi­
cient, and rife with fraud and 
corruption,” said Devereux. “You 
see that, and it creates an image 
that... the existing system has to 
go. The question then is, who do 
you really believe is going to do 
the job?”
The campaign turned very 
negative in the last two weeks, 
with Dunn and Cranmer claim­
ing that Vuono — a employee in 
the county coroner’s office—was 
not qualified to hold her job or a
county commissioner’s seat.
“They portrayed Vuono as 
someone who had gotten a politi­
cally-appointed job that she was 
not eligible for and not certified 
for,” said Devereux. “They painted 
her as a member of the existing 
system, and one who had ben­
efited from it.”
But Dawida and Vuono failed 
to respond to the attacks—which 
included the first negative bill­
board ads anyone could remem­
ber seeing — until late in the 
race.
“Dawida and Vuono made a 
huge mistake,” said Devereux. 
“Negative campaigning doesn’t 
work on its own, it only works 
when you don’t respond.” 
Devereux said that negative 
campaigning tends to create in­
decision. “Some Democrats went 
to the polls and just voted for 
Mike Dawida,” Devereux said. “It 
was a direct failure to read the 
lessons of negative campaigning 
from have been read off of the last
12 years of American politics.” 
The Democrats also came un- 
Please see ELECTION, page 3
To recycle old PCs...
Goodwill, CMU join forces
By JASON TOGYER
Tartan News Editor
By ANDREW McDERMOTT
Tartan Photo Editor
Anti-pornography activist Catharine MacKinnon and libertar­
ian columnist Nat Hentoff discussed pornography and the first 
amendment at a public debate which addressed the Internet, 
Marty Rimm’s study, and recent pornography legislation passed 
in Canada.
The debate, sponsored by the First Freedoms Fund and the 
University of Pittsburgh Law School, was held at Pitt last Mon­
day.
MacKinnon, professor of law at the University of Michigan, 
argued pornography is a pervasive, harmful influence on the men 
who consume it, stating there is no real division between printed 
pornography and what’s on the Internet since they originate in the 
same place.
“Exposure of pornography to normal, meaning non-predisposed 
males, increases their attitudes and behaviors of aggression, and 
other forms of discrimination against women,” MacKinnon said.
MacKinnon then addressed the existence of what she termed a 
“power bloc” of groups that conspire to keep pornography avail­
able, consisting of pornographers, the media, organized crime, the 
ACLU, and universities.
“If you tell the truth about pornography, what you are faced with 
is the howling fury of the pornographers protecting their penises
and wallets against anyone who makes them look bad in public,” Andrew McDermott/Tartan Photo Editor ,she said.
village Voice columnist Nat Hentoff addresses the audience «The power of this bloc is essentially hidden, and is institution­
al last week's debate. Please see DEBATE, page 5
Andrew McDermott/Tartan Photo Editor
Chuck Bartel of Computing Services and John Brier of Goodwill sort through some of CMU’s 
donations to the new Goodwill Computer Recycling Center on the South Side.
Carnegie Mellon has donated $35,000 worth 
of used computer equipment to Goodwill In­
dustries of Pittsburgh to establish a Computer 
Recycling Center on the South Side.
In addition, said Computing Services opera­
tions manager Chuck Bartel, the University 
hopes to continue to provide expertise and 
donations to Goodwill.
Last year, CMU created its own recycling 
center under the auspices of Computing Ser­
vices. Bartel said the project grew out of a 
desire to provide usable machines to the com­
munity via the University Outreach program.
“We received $35,000 in seed money from the 
Provost [Paul Christianol, and started setting 
up shop in October [19941,” he said.
Bartel said that the center’s job was to gather 
unused equipment and recycle it in an environ­
mentally responsible way. In addition, the 
University wanted to provide inexpensive ma­
chines to needy people.
“One of the overall missions of the University 
is to transfer [knowledge] to society,” said 
Please see RECYCLING, page 3

---------------------------------------------------

The Tartan • Carnegie Mellon University • 13 November 1995
• ••
Israeli police make more 
arrests in Rabin slaying
JERUSALEM, Nov. 11 (AP) — Po­
lice arrested a member of an elite 
army unit on suspicion he supplied 
Yitzhak Rabin’s killer with weapons, 
bringing to seven the number of sus­
pects being held, security sources said 
Saturday.
The police minister has said he be­
lieved Rabin was the victim of a me­
ticulously planned right-wing con­
spiracy, but until now has not pro­
vided details. The soldier’s father was 
also taken in for questioning, the se­
curity sources said, speaking on con­
dition of anonymity.
The detained soldier, an observant
- Jew from the Tel Aviv suburb of Bnei 
Brak, was not identified. He was to be 
brought before a Tel Aviv magistrate 
Sunday, said the official.
Israel TV said Saturday that Rabin’s 
confessed killer, 25-year-old Yigal 
Amir, and his brother Hagai, 27, held 
as an accomplice, had plotted for 
1 months to kill the prime minister.
The report said they had initially 
planned to kill Rabin outside his home 
in the Tel Aviv suburb of Ramat Aviv, 
using a sniper’s rifle with a telescopic 
sight. For a long time, they observed 
Rabin’s movements, his timetable and 
security arrangements around the 
apartment building where he lived, 
the report said.
The Amir brothers tried to get close 
enough to Rabin to kill him on five 
separate occasions, but failed, the TV 
report said.
It also said investigators have iden­
tified a rabbi who is close to the broth­
ers and may have given religious jus­
tification for the assassination. After 
his arrest, the gunman said he had 
acted on God’s orders and that shoot­
ing Rabin was justified under Jewish 
law.
Over the past few months, several 
militant rabbis reportedly issued rul­
ings that justified killing the prime 
minister.
Local priest arrested for fraud
PITTSBURGH, Nov. 11 (AP)—The 
marble chip mosaic showing the Vir­
gin Mary at Fatima was an inspira­
tion to pilgrims from around the na­
tion.
But to the Rev. Francis G. Bolek, the 
shrine at the former Holy Name of the 
Blessed Virgin Mary parish was a 
gold mine.
Bolek admitted he took $340,000 in 
donations for the shrine and bought 
gold jewelry, clothing, a luxury apart­
ment in Florida and vacations to Ha­
waii and New Zealand.
“Simply because you are a priest 
doesn’t mean you are perfect,” said 
the Rev. Ronald Lengwin, spokesman 
for the Diocese of Pittsburgh.
Beginning in 1987, Bolek and two 
others solicited funds for a shrine at 
the former Holy Name of the Blessed 
Virgin Mary parish in Donora, about
15 miles southwest of Pittsburgh, fed­
eral prosecutors said.
The colorful mosaic depicts a vision 
of the Lady of the Rosary in 1917 in 
the Portugese village of Fatima.
Some donors sent checks for as little 
as $2, said Andrew Richards, the postal 
inspector who investigated the case. 
Court papers said Edward McGratty 
of Morristown, N.J., donated about 
$250,000 for the shrine. He recovered 
$48,000.
Bolek and the others told patrons 
the money was to be used to repair the 
church, build a senior citizen’s center 
and buy the shrine from the diocese,
prosecutors said.
The diocese found financial irregu­
larities when it audited Holy Name’s 
books while preparing to consolidate 
parishes in 1992. It notified federal 
authorities, who began an investiga­
tion.
“There were missing records, miss­
ing checks,” Lengwin said. “But we 
had no idea of the extent of it.”
Bolek, 35, pleaded guilty Thursday 
to one count of mail fraud. He faces up 
to five years in prison and a $250,000 
fine. Chiropractor Joseph Teff, his sis­
ter, Michelle Teff, both of Middleton, 
Wis., and the Rev. Bernard Kacz- 
marczyk, the former Holy Name pas­
tor, were named in court papers as 
participants in the scheme, but were 
not charged.
Assistant U.S. Attorney Barbara 
Carlin said the three used names and 
addresses from a guest register in the 
church to solicit funds in the name of 
the Mary Mystical Rose Foundation.
Holy Name has since been closed, 
and the diocese has rented the church 
to a Protestant congregation.Both 
Bolek, who is free on bond, and 
Kaczmarczyk, 66, have taken leaves 
of absence, Lengwin said. The diocese 
did not know how to contact the priests.
No one answered the telephone at a 
listing for Francis Bolek in Donora. 
His attorney, G. Clinton Kelley, said 
Bolek is still a priest but has no church 
affiliation.
He is to be sentenced on Jan. 19.
Philly cop foils 
donut shop heist
PHILADELPHIA, Nov. 10 (AP) — A 
woman robbing a suburban doughnut 
shop pretended to be a waitress when a 
customer came to the drive-up window. 
Trouble was, she bungled the order — 
and the customer was a cop.
Cheltenham Township Police Sgt. 
Michael Regan wanted a large coffee 
with cream and sugar. The woman at 
the suburban Dunkin’ Donuts late Tues­
day had an unfamiliar face, and she 
delivered a medium black with the cup 
only half full.
“I figured this person doesn’t work 
there,” Regan said Wednesday. He 
parked in a remote corner of the parking 
lot, watched, and waited.
Regan could see the woman through 
the store windows as she pounded on the 
cash register keyboard. She walked into 
a back room and returned with two em­
ployees.
“Then I saw her make one of them 
open the register, and when he did that 
she scooped up the money,” he said.
That’s when Regan called for backup 
and drove toward the store. When the 
woman spotted his cruiser, she climbed 
through the takeout window and fled.
A suspect, arrested a short time later 
with the aid of a police dog, was identi­
fied as Ella Harold, 26, of Philadelphia. 
She was charged with robbery and held 
on $50,000 bail. She had taken about 
$100 from the shop, police said.
“If she had given him the right order,” 
said Cheltenham Lt. John Scholly, 
“maybe she would have gotten away.”
The woman had behaved as if she had 
a gun in her waistband, one of the em­
ployees told police, but a weapon was not 
found. The two employees were bakers 
who ordinarily stay in the back but come 
up to serve drive-up customers who ring 
the bell during late-night hours when 
the shop is otherwise closed.
McNamara visits 
former enemies
HANOI, Vietnam, Nov. 11 (AP) — 
Small talk eased the awkwardness of 
the historic first encounter between Rob­
ert McNamara, who helped send U.S. 
troops to Vietnam, and retired Gen. Vo 
Nguyen Giap, who plotted their even­
tual defeat.
Smiling broadly amidst the flash and 
whir of cameras, Giap told McNamara 
that he’d heard about him long ago, and 
said he looked fit.
“I went out for a jog this morning,” 
said McNamara.
“I also do that, but very gentle,” re­
plied the 84-year-old Giap, still erect in 
full uniform, soft-spoken and composed 
in contrast with McNamara’s booming 
voice and air of excitement.
Twenty years have passed since the 
guns fell silent, leaving more than 3 
million dead. The two governments es­
tablished diplomatic relations in Au­
gust and many U.S. veterans have re­
turned and met with Giap.
But McNamara was a man of infamy, 
the target of Viet Cong assassins, who 
justified the war while deaths mounted 
but now with the hindsight of his 79 
years declared it all a tragic error.
Although he did not offer any apology, 
he was the highest-level U.S. official 
from the war era to come back and shake 
hands, and his hosts responded warmly.
McNamara, who encountered more 
overt anger when touring the United 
States to promote his memoirs, said his 
overwhelming feeling was gratitude. 
“I’ve been greeted with cordiality, not 
hostility,” he said.
Vietnamese language papers said little 
about McNamara’s visit, perhaps be­
cause party leaders could not decide how 
to explain it to their veterans.
Vietnamese photographers and cam­
eramen recorded the McNamara-Giap 
handshake, and were so riveted by the 
meeting that they ignored repeated ef­
forts by army officers and Foreign Min­
istry officials to usher them out.
But nothing appeared about the meet­
ing in the newspapers or on television, 
and ordinary people were unaware of 
McNamara’s presence.
No one recognized him on his morning 
jogs by a city lake, past a former bomb 
shelter.
“Morning,” he called to a middle-aged 
woman playing badminton, whose 
shuttlecock landed at his feet. She waved 
her racket in reply.
Columnist awaits 
kidney transplant
PHOENIX, Nov. 10 (AP)—Since 1965, 
Erma Bombeck has turned out column 
after column with wry, witty observa­
tions on home life. Her humor may be all 
the more impressive now, in her third 
year of awaiting a kidney transplant.
“She’s an extraordinary person. ... If 
you didn’t know her well, you wouldn’t 
know that there’s anything necessariiy 
wrong with her,” her literary agent, 
Aaron Priest, said.
Bombeck, 68, suffers from total kid­
ney failure and undergoes dialysis four 
times a day at her home in Paradise 
Valley.
She and her husband, Bill, declined 
Thursday to comment on her health 
problems, which included breast cancer 
and a double mastectomy in 1992.
“It’s hard. It’s difficult. But she’s not 
near death,” Priest said from New York.
Her column, first syndicated in 1965, 
appears twice a week in 700 newspa­
pers. She just published her 12th book, 
“All I Know About Animal Behavior I 
Learned in Loehmann’s Dressing Room.5
‘Calvin and Hobbes’ creator quits
KANSAS CITY, Mo., Nov. 9 (AP) — 
Calvin and Hobbes, the terrible tyke 
and his sidekick tiger, will be retired 
from the funny pages on Dec. 31.
In a letter to newspaper editors 
Thursday, cartoonist Bill Watterson 
said the decision to end the strip was 
not a recent or easy decision.
“I believe I’ve done what I can do 
within the constraints of daily dead­
lines and small panels,” Watterson, 
38, said in the letter. “I am eager to 
work at a more thoughtful pace, with 
fewer artistic compromises.”
“Calvin and Hobbes” hit the comic 
pages in 1986 and entertained mil­
lions with the antics of a 6-year-old 
boy with an overactive imagination 
and a not-so-stuffed tiger.
In the past nine years, the pair 
launched countless snowball am­
bushes, journeyed through space, tor­
mented a baby sitter, and ran afoul of 
Calvin’s patient parents.
“Calvin and Hobbes” is distributed 
internationally to nearly 2,400 news­
papers, including The Tartan. More 
than 23 million copies of books based 
on the cartoon are in print. All 13 
collections were million-dollar sellers 
in their first year.
In his letter, Watterson said he had 
not decided on what he will do next.
Lee Salem, editorial director at the 
Universal Press Syndicate in Kansas
© Universal Press Syndicate
City, said that after Dec. 31, the. com­
pany will not provide reruns of the 
strip to newspapers the way it did 
when Watterson took a nine-month 
leave of absence in 1991 and again 
last year.
Salem said two “Calvin and Hobbes” 
book collections will be released next 
year. The books include comic strips 
that have already appeared in news­
papers.
Beyond that, Salem said Universal 
Press does not know if Watterson will 
produce new books or other materials.
The reclusive cartoonist has refused 
to be interviewed and will not reveal 
where he lives.
Four-Day Forecast
MondayWinter arrives — 60 
percent chance of 
light snow through­
out the day. High in 
the mid-30s; low in 
the upper 30s.
TuesdayA storm front could 
drop several Inches 
of snow on the 
Pittsburgh area. High 
35; low 30.
WednesdaySlight chance of 
snow; high in the 
upper 30s; low in the 
mid-20s.
ThursdaySnow showers and 
cold temperatures. 
High near 35; low 
near 25.
Carnegie Almanac
50 YEARS AGO, Nov. 13,1945: 
“Final arrangements have been 
completed and it appears that 
Tech’s first semi-formal dance will 
be one long remembered by every 
student,” reported The Carnegie 
Tartan. “The dance sponsored by 
the Women’s Guild ... is to be 
held in the men’s gymnasium on 
Nov. 17.”
In a twist, the semi-formal was 
to be a “Sadie Hawkins Dance”— 
women were to ask men to the 
event (or, as the article put it, 
“girl dates boy”).
“So girls, why not give the boys 
a break and ask them to the dance 
if you have not already done so?” 
queried the writer. “The time is 
drawing short and many of the 
boys are biting their fingernails, 
still hoping to get an invitation.”
25 YEARS AGO, Nov. 12,1970: 
“Last Tuesday’s Student Govern­
ment elections were voided by 
the rules committee of Student 
Senate, after it was discovered 
that one candidate’s name had 
been omitted from the Men’s 
Dorm Ballot, and that ballots for 
Director of the Academic Affairs
Board had been incorrectly dis­
tributed,” reported The Tartan. 
“Misprints were also found on 
Graduate Student ballots.”
Other controversies swirled 
around the elections. Five candi­
dates for Senate had circulated a 
campaign letter printed on offi­
cial C-MU stationery, in viola­
tion of election guidelines.
Although a petition was pre­
sented to Senate asking that their 
names be removed from the bal­
lot, the group decided not to take 
any action.
Senate’s Rules Committee de­
cided instead to re-run the entire 
election in a few days.
10 YEARS AGO, Nov. 12,1985: 
The tilted square landed on cam-
pus ten years ago this week.
“By the first of next year, Car- 
negie-Mellon University will have 
established a new design signa­
ture [sic], replacing the block 
CMU logo on publications, sta­
tionery, and other visual media,” 
reported The Tartan.
The “block” CMU logo was the 
’70s, disco-esque emblem still oc­
casionally seen on office doors 
and old letterhead.
“[The old logo] is obscure, unat­
tractive, and has been complained 
about for the five years I have 
been here,” said then-Vice Presi­
dent for University Relations 
Keith Moore.
Lost with the logo was the hy­
phen, which still shows up once 
in a while, on items such as diplo-
mas and in “Carnegie Almanac.
5 YEARS AGO, Nov. 12,1990: 
CMU was “considering a proposal 
developed by Student Govern­
ment President Kishore Rao 
give a select number of under­
graduate scholars a fifth year at 
CMU tuition-free.
“ ‘It is my understanding 
the president is interested in look’ 
ing at a program that would iden­
tify the very best students aca­
demically, and then, after the)’ 
graduate from Carnegie Mellon, 
give them the opportunity tosta) 
here for an extra year and 
what they want to do for a year at 
no charge,’ said Vice President 
for University Relations DoB 
Hale,” reported The Tartan.
the Tartan
Volume 67- Number 4Wednesday, September 27, )^L
The Tartan will celebrate its 90th anniversary in 1996. Here's the paper’s 1967 flag.
From National Weather Seivice bulletins and other sources

---------------------------------------------------

The Tartan • Carnegie Mellon University • 13 November 19953
Goodwill, CMU launch computer recycling
RECYCLING, from page 1
Bartel. “We viewed this as part of the 
overall mission of the University to 
transfer this technology.”
CMU hired a coordinator and sev­
eral work-study students to repair and 
recycle the computers and peripher­
als. Computing Services employees 
also volunteered their time.
But after a while, said Bartel, the 
CMU program was a victim of its own 
success, and simply couldn’t keep up 
with the demand. In addition, CMU 
wasn’t able to efficiently gather the 
equipment.
“We’ve pretty much tapped the stuff 
that was free that people didn’t really 
have a use for on campus,” he said.
At the same time, said John Brier, 
director of information services for 
Goodwill, his organization was look­
ing for help in using the computers 
that people were donating.
“In the past, we would get [comput­
ers] in, and [Goodwill employees] 
would just throw them on our store 
shelves,” Brier said. “We had no idea 
what to do with them.”
“We came to the conclusion that if 
we would pool our interests together, 
we’d have a much better computer 
recycling organization,” said Bartel, 
“that could tap into the greater com­
munity much easier and could tap into 
the volunteer effort much easier.” He 
said that Goodwill’s network of thrift 
stores and collection sites is “a natu­
ral” to provide cost-effective labor to 
repair and distribute the equipment.
“We really just didn’t have the criti­
cal mass to make this a major success 
in the community,” he said. “By work­
ing with Goodwill ... we believe that 
we can actually tap into a lot of re­
sources that, for CMU by itself, would 
have been difficult to do.
“We hope to have a continuing role,” 
said Bartel. “We still want to have a 
place where the CMU community can 
take unneeded computing equipment 
and recycle it properly.”
Goodwill will provide a pipeline for 
old computers from CMU, as well as a 
place for the University to find low-
cost, used computers for community 
outreach programs.
“This is one example of how to get 
good, but cost effective, equipment 
available for those kinds of projects,” 
said Bartel.
Brier said that he expects that about 
60 or 70 percent of the computers that 
are donated are usable, either as com­
plete machines or for parts.
“We want to get low-cost computers 
to the community, to schools, and to 
non-profit organizations, and keep 
these computers from filling up our 
landfills,” said Brier.
A grant from Pittsburgh’s Buhl Foun­
dation will enable Goodwill to sell the 
machines to schools and needy stu­
dents at or below cost, said Brier.
“We operate as lean as possible, but 
we still must make a little money so 
that we can start new programs,” he 
said.
But Brier said that Goodwill needs 
volunteer help as much as donations. 
He said that his main priority now is 
lining up people to train Goodwill’s 
workers. “We need repair expertise 
and training expertise for when we 
start branching out into literacy,” he 
said. “We need volunteers desperately.”
Bartel said that the recycling pro­
gram provides an important service to 
Goodwill’s clients — typically men­
tally or physically challenged people
— as well.
“Computing, and the repair of com­
puters, is an area that, heretofore, 
those people may not have gotten an 
opportunity to get into,” he said. “Car­
negie Mellon, being a very computer 
literate school, has an awful lot of 
people who have those skills and are 
able to share those skills.”
Bartel said that the project is prom­
ising, but that “the job is really just 
beginning.
“It’s rewarding,” he said, “but there’s 
an awful lot of potential that still has 
not been tapped.”
To volunteer or to donate equipment, 
contact Goodwill3s John Brier at 481- 
9049.
GOP upset changes face of county
ELECTION, from page 1 borrow the money or do whatever you
der fire after Dawida, in an interview have to do to make a major investment in 
with the Pittsburgh Courier, the city’s repairing the boat,” he said. “Or, you can 
African-American newspaper, said that just find those people who are weak and 
heandVuono“don’tneedtheblackvote.” vulnerable and throw them off the boat.” 
That comment, which Dawida later The elderly, the poor, and minorities 
said was taken out of context, cost his are the groups that are most often “thrown 
campaign dearly. In the city’s Ward 12, off the boat,” said Devereux. “If one of the 
East Liberty, the Republicans led Demo- groups you kick out of the boat is your
crats 58 percent to 42 percent. In the 
1991 commissioner’s race, the Demo­
crats captured 92 percent of the vote to 
just eight percent for the Republicans.
“I thought that [when] Dawida and 
Vupno ... took on the African-American 
community, that was all for the white 
vote,” he said. “I think that one of the 
ways that they were trying to announce 
themselves as candidates of change was
to say, ‘We’re not your ______________
traditional Democrats.
We’re not beholden to 
the African-American 
community. ... We’re 
not beholden to tradi­
tional Democratic con­
stituencies. We don’t 
need the black vote.’”
Devereux said that 
the attempt by D awida 
to distance himself 
from African-Ameri­
can voters is similar to what national 
politicians are also doing.
“To tell you the truth, it’s a very sad 
situation,” he said. “You have two politi­
cal parties that are struggling over the
automatic Democratic voters, and they 
go and vote Republican, then you’ve got a 
problem. You have a big problem.”
While the county commission is now 
controlled by Republicans, all of the other 
elected county officials — the so-called 
“row offices”—are Democrats, as is Pitts­
burgh Mayor Tom Murphy and Pitts­
burgh City Council.
“This is the Twilight Zone,” said
“This is the Twilight Zone. ... We’re 
going to find out what a divided 
government does in Allegheny County. ”
— Erik Devereux, 
assistant professor, Heinz School
Devereux. “We’re out in the unknown. 
We really are. We’re going to find out 
what a divided government does in Al­
legheny County.”
One of the consequences is likely to be 
same voters and don’t know how to dif- infighting between the commissioners,
ferentiate themselves. And in essence, 
[they’re] leaving off to the side a huge 
percentage of the electorate, because 
they’re basically ruling them out as in­
teresting.
“Things are economically very diffi­
cult despite, maybe, glowing figures is-
elected bureaucrats, and political appoin­
tees. Allegheny County has no separa­
tion of powers — the county commission­
ers make all policies, and the other offices 
are responsible for implementing them. 
If Dunn and Cranmer make too many 
changes too fast, other parts of county
sued by the national government in re- government are likely to rebel.
gard to unemployment, interest rates, 
etc. The fact of life in the United States 
is [that the country has a] declining 
standard of living,” said Devereux.
He compared the economy to a “sink­
ing boat.
“There are different ways that you 
repair a sinking boat. One is that you
“Bureaucrats can stonewall, drag their 
feet, look the other way, and simply refuse 
to obey what the policymakers tell them 
to do,” Devereux said, adding that he 
wouldn’t be surprised to see “labor ac­
tions, subversion, and some choice ex­
amples of sabotage.
“There’s going to be a lot of upset as
they try to make these changes, and I; 
think people are going to be inclined to: 
take it to the streets,” he said.
The upheaval comes at a time when 
the Pittsburgh metropolitan area is 
stagnating, and Devereux said that the: 
problems the commissioners face are . 
complex. ;
“The overall problem for Pittsburgh. 
is that it’s in competition with cities all : 
over the United States and, now, all; 
over the world for economic develop-; 
ment and for business,” said Devereux. 
“Frankly, the transportation infrastruc-! 
ture in Pittsburgh is terrible. You have' 
to make it easy to get goods and service; 
out of the area.
“You have to avoid red tape, arcane" 
regulations, and arcane procedures that;
___________ nobody understands, and;
Allegheny County has ; 
plenty of that ... right; 
now,” said Devereux.: 
“You can try to buy people; 
in here with taxes, and ’ 
that may be something: 
at the margin that you: 
have to do ... but you; 
have to work on a whole; 
variety of programs to; 
make the place business: 
friendly.” ;
Dunn and Cranmer’s paper-thin vie- ] 
tory, and the traditional disadvantages ’ 
that Republicans in Pittsburgh face/ 
mean that they’ll have to deliver oni 
their promises to retain their seats.
“The fact is, it still came out to be 
really close,” said Devereux, who added 
that if Dawida and Vuono had not of­
fended African-American voters, the. 
election might easily have been swung 
the other way.
“We’ve not gone from a Democratic- 
dominated county commission to a Re­
publican county commission,” he said. 
“We’ve gone from a Democratic-domi- 
nated county commission to a competi­
tive county commission. I don’t think 
Bob Cranmer is feeling that secure in 
his seat today. They have four years to 
do something to solidify control in a 
county that still has a lot of Democrats 
in it.”
Correction/Clarification.
In last week’s article “Computing Services blocks directories,” the location of 
the Computing Services Help Center was incorrect. The Help Center is located 
on the A-Level of Cyert Hall.
The Tartan corrects all known errors of fact. If you know of such an error, 
please contact Tartan Editor-in-Chief Lauren Heinz at 268-2111.
WHEN DRINKING, CALL A FRIEND. OR GET A RIDE WITH A STRANGER.
Drinking and riding can lead to a loss of license, a conviction, or even worse. That’s if you’re lucky. The fact is, 50% of motorcycle fatalities involve v o y riders who have been drinking. So if you have been drinking, get a ride Yu/ with a friend. It’s the best call you can make. MOTORCYCLE SAFETY FOUNDATION
WHAT^5» NEXT
AFTER THE FINAL FINAL?
RELAX
The Monster Board Is An Eye Opener.
The Ultimate Career Site On The Web. 
Conduct a job search, post your resume, 
even apply on-line in minutes ... all free!
No Pen. No Paper. No Postage. Just sit back and click. 
What could be easier? Or more worthwhile?
Find Your Future OnIJne With The Monsters! 
http://www.monster.com
pay attention to life... share what you find ... make noise ... move on
to detect and serve the new leaders of this world http://www.monster.com/roar/Roar.html
•••VS*
L£ve$£
Exams, shopping and holiday 
parties...what a crazy time of the 
year! Keep it all together with a 
HiT pager from Metrocall.
Package included
•A new Motorola Renegade numeric pager, available in Black and Clear. 
•Three months of reliable local paging service with wide area coverage.
•Three months of Metromessage \oice Messaging with notification.
412-920-2800METROCALL
America s Wireless Messaging Network
• Al ll< «ni A lU tir« ra.ull/ A i,nif«. M.tr.vJI »ill l«;in Mfcnf ll, .-n.r iu.l =9.<*> r*J nun A [vi r*,Vf Al il. «tvl A il, llr„ rojnlli A M.tuuiii;»*. Milr.saS «i3 k;in liDinf tl< jwrf .mil ijil 56.9? [\i rajnll. C.rUin mlikluu *ffJi .V'lnllbn i„ n,1 ¡nJwU.
« MrlnwtH Inc. IW? .. 11/9~ AiHVUBecause The Job Market Is Scary Without Them

---------------------------------------------------

BloombergFINANCIAL MARKETS WCOMMODITI ES NEWS
We’re Looking for 
Tomorrow’s Innovators.
THE FIRM
Bloomberg L.P. is a leading financial information firm, 
providing sophisticated data and analysis to investment 
professionals and major companies around the world.
THE POSITION
Software Developers/Financial Analysts/System Programmers 
for entry-level positions in New York City and Princeton, NJ.
REQUIREMENTS
Technically oriented, BS or MS in finance, economics, computer 
science, engineering and/or mathematics background, at least 
two semesters or equivalent programming coursework and 
knowledge of C, Pascal, Fortran or similar language.
INTERESTED?
We will be recruiting at Carnegie Melon on February 1,1996. 
Contact the Career Services Office if you are interested 
in more information or would like to interview for the 
above position.
Equal Employment Opportunity Employer
Reuters Information. Nom.
No THE ARNEr 
\WSIG O,E \ov \E .W1
(PPErr To O,E
Is the world’s leading 
supplier of electronic news and 
information services, Reuters has 
always been open, to new technolo­
gies. But most of all, to new ideas, 
creative thinking, and a commitment 
to excellence in our products and 
services. It’s what gave us the leading 
edge.We recognize that our continued- 
success depends largely on our 
greatest resource—our people. They’re 
the brightest and the best and have 
the rare entrepreneurial spirit 
necessary to lead us into the future.
Our worldwide leadership can take 
your career in many directions. Most 
professional opportunities at Reuters 
are in the areas of Financial Market 
Services, Information Technology, 
Media, News and Television. Students 
working toward their BS degrees 
are invited to attend the:
Reuters Corporate Presentation
Date: November 14, 1995 
Time: 12 Noon-1 PM 
Place: The Student Center, 
R.oom 207
Corporate Headquarters:
1700 Broadxvav, 17th Floor 
New York. NY 10019
WE ARE AN EQUAL OPPORTUNITY EMPLOYER COMMITTED TO WORKFORCE, DIVERSITY.
z<2 NO N 
Û Û.
681-1700
315 N. Craig Street 
11 am - 2 am 
Sun-Thurs; 
11am - 3 am Fri - Sat
VISA, MASTERCARD and CAMPUS EXPRESS ACCEPTED
Any medium 
8-cut pizza with 
any toppings 
for $ 7.99?
</>ÖZ <R
2 N O No a
Any large 
12-cut with 
any toppings 
for $ 9.990
</>
ÖZ <
S
¡E N O N o a

---------------------------------------------------

The Tartan • Carnegie Mellon University • 13 November 1995
Carnegie Mellon in BriefIn Pitt debate..
PAT’S ‘spine line’ 
meetings coming 
to Oakland
Port Authority of Allegheny County 
(PAT) and the Southwestern Pennsyl­
vania Regional Planning Commission 
(SPERC) are continuing work on the 
Spine Line Corridor Major Investment 
Study, said a SPERC spokesperson.
The Spine Line, a proposed transit 
corridor, would extend approximately 
six miles from North Side, across the 
Allegheny River, through Downtown, 
and eastward to Oakland. The purpose 
of the study is to evaluate transporta­
tion improvements in the corridor and 
assist decision makers in their section of 
a locally preferred alternative.
“The public has had an important role 
in the development of the work com­
pleted to date,” said the spokesperson.
The next round of four public meet­
ings will be held this week. One meeting 
will be held Thursday, Nov. 16, from 7 
pm to 9 pm in the William Pitt Student 
Union Ballroom at the University of 
Pittsburgh.
For more information, call 322-6000.
Kids decorate 
shop windows 
with CFA help
City students participatingin the “Our 
Town” program, a joint venture of the 
Architecture Department and the Ameri­
can Institute of Architects (AIA), Pitts­
burgh, will create a holiday window dis­
play at the corner of the Boulevard of the 
Allies and Smithfield Street (341 Boule­
vard of the Allies).
CFA spokesperson Kim O’Neill said 
that the “Our Town” program will join 
more than 50 other community groups 
in creating the holiday windows which
will be unveiled on Nov. 17, the annual 
kick-off of Downtown’s “Sparkle Sea­
son.”
The “Our Town” window will feature 
drawings and models of Pittsburgh 
neighborhoods and landmarks. “Our 
Town,” a Saturday and after-school pro­
gram, promotes community awareness 
and pride among Pittsburgh youth 
through intensive study of neighborhood 
architecture. Students participatingthis 
semester are residents of Garfield, East 
Liberty, Homewood, Friendship, 
Lawrenceville and Bloomfield.
Heinz School’s 
Boykin leaving 
University
On Tuesday, Nov. 14, Ruth Boykin, 
associate director of career and student 
services at the Heinz School, will be 
leaving the University.
“During my five years of service I en­
joyed the opportunity to meet and work 
with many of you,” said Boykin.
Some of her activities included being a 
member of the selection committee for 
the recent Andy Quality Awards and 
representing staff on the Commission to 
Study the Status of the University’s 
Workforce.
Boykin was also a member and pre­
senter for the Black Faculty and Staff 
Association, and sat on the board of the 
University’s ACE—NIP chapter, whose 
purpose is to identify and support women 
for leadership and in their personal 
growth.
“I am grateful to all staff and students 
for the opportunity to serve the campus 
community. It has been my privilege to 
meet so many bright and caring indi­
viduals,” said Boykin.
“I hope that along the way I helped 
someone to have hope and to stay en­
couraged in pursuing their life goals.” 
[CMU Public Relations]
Anti-porn activist, libertarian face off
DEBATE, from page 1
ally unlimited.” said MacKinnon.
Hentoff, a columnist for the Village 
Voice, worked to separate himself from 
pro-pornography supporters, such as the 
ACLU, that MacKinnon had previously 
attacked.
He said he worried that MacKinnon’s 
definitions of pornography and its advo­
cates were too broad, and risk effecting 
a wider range of materials than she 
intends.
In line with her argument surround­
ing “power blocs,” MacKinnon brought 
up the Rimm study, defended Rimm 
against media criticism he received af­
ter the publication of his study.
“They said the study was fraudulent, 
it isn’t. They said the methodology was 
flawed, it isn’t,” said MacKinnon, who 
called Rimm one of CMU’s most success­
ful and intelligent students, and that his
academic reputation was being violated 
by Carnegie Mellon.
MacKinnon expressed her support for 
Rimm’s study in the essay “Vindication 
and Resistance,” which appeared in the 
Georgetown Law Journal.
She blamed Michael Godwin of the 
Electronic Freedom Foundation (EFF) 
for the negative press that Rimm has 
received. She also accused Godwin of 
collaborating with “on-line pimps,” sug­
gesting the funding of the EFF be inves­
tigated.
Hentoff continued to call MacKinnon’s 
definition of pornography into question.
He cited the recent obscenity laws 
that were passed in Canada which were 
influenced heavily by the writings of 
MacKinnon and Andrea Dworkin, a femi­
nist writer. He said the wording of the 
new laws is purposely vague and could 
be applied to materials that are not
pornographic.
Hentoff proceeded to provide examples - 
of works that could be banned under 
MacKinnon’s definition, citing works by 
Faulkner and the book of Judges in the 
Bible.
Hentoff cited the recent obscenity laws ¦!; 
that were passed in Canada which were 
influenced heavily by the writings of> 
MacKinnon and Andrea Dworkin, a femi- ' 
nist writer. He said the wording of the 
new laws is purposely vague and could, 
be applied to materials that are not.;; 
pornographic.
Hentoff proceeded to provide examples::;, 
of works that could be banned under:,. 
MacKinnon’s definition, citing works by.'. 
Faulkner and the book of Judges in the?* 
Bible.
MacKinnon countered that these/- 
works would not be considered unde??;;: 
the Canadian laws.
Clinton, Congress play budget brinksmanship
SHUTDOWN, from page 1
Clinton said that as he sees it the 
budget debate is about “two very differ­
ent futures for America, about whether 
the country goes forward in unity or 
chooses to become “a more divided soci­
ety.”
Clinton has threatened to veto two 
GOP-written measures to extend gov­
ernment spending and borrowing au­
thority temporarily. The bill increas­
ing the debt limit from the current $4.9 
trillion cleared Congress on Friday, 
and another bill extending the 
government’s authority to spend money 
is expected to follow on Monday.
Two Republican lawmakers, mean­
while, accused Clinton of indulging in 
“more political campaigning” instead 
of submitting a serious balanced bud­
get plan for negotiation.
“The president has talked about bal­
ancing the budget; in fact he has prom­
ised to balance the budget,” said Rep. 
John Boehner, R-Ohio, in the weekly 
GOP radio address. “But so far the 
president has offered no leadership and 
no plan.”
Sen. DonNickles, (R-Okla.), repeated 
the point, saying of Clinton, “His only 
reaction to our plan for balancing the 
budget are scare tactics.”
Proposals that caused President 
Clinton to promise to veto legislation by 
Congress extending the nation’s bor­
rowing authority anid providing stop­
gap spending to pay for government 
operations:
•The temporary spending bill would 
raise Medicare premiums for doctor’s 
bills and lab fees, effective in January,
from $46.10 a month to $53.50. And, 
like the debt-limit bill, it would expand 
Medicare coverage to pay for oral hor­
monal drugs to treat prostate and breast 
cancer. “Eight million of the senior 
citizens and disabled Americans whose 
Medicare premiums will be raised by 
Congress are veterans. And they, too, 
deserve better,” Clinton said Saturday 
in his radio address.
•The bill would limit habeas corpus 
appeals by death-row inmates.
•The bill would make it more diffi­
cult for federal agencies to issue health, 
safety and environmental regulations 
by requiring them to perform a risk 
assessment and cost-benefit analysis 
first.
•The bill would mandate cuts in the 
federal government’s student loan pro­
gram.
Crime and Incident Report
10/28 FIRE, 3:28 am. Officers 
responded to a fire in the Marga­
ret Morrison Apartments. While 
responding to the fire, an officer 
found a single remaining resi­
dent on the floor. She was sitting 
on the toilet with her head be­
tween her legs, and appeared to 
have been vomiting. She seemed 
oblivious to the'fact that the floor 
was on fire. The officer got her 
out of the building, and had her 
treated by EMS. The fire was 
caused by incense that caught a 
throw rug on fire.
10/29 VERBAL ASSAULT,
4:05 pm. A bagger was accosted 
by a male graduate student, who 
started preaching about the Ten 
Commandments and how the 
bagger had violated all of them. 
The graduate student followed 
the bagger around for several 
minutes before he left.
10/30 BRAWL, 1:53 am. Offic­
ers responded to a fraternity 
house, where they were told by 
the fraternity’s vice president that 
several athletes had just started 
a brawl with the entire house.
According to members of the fra­
ternity, the students were attend­
ing the party, but became rowdy, 
and were asked to leave. One of 
the athletes then allegedly threw 
a pumpkin at the brothers, and a 
fight ensued.
When the officers arrived, there 
were no members of the team in 
the house, but several of the broth­
ers had sustained injuries, which 
included bloody noses, cut lips 
and loose teeth.
While patrolling the fraternity 
quad later, an officer found one of 
the suspects and issued him a 
citation.
10/30 THREATS, 7:04 pm. A 
student reported to Campus Po­
lice that he. had repeatedly re­
ceived harassing phone calls. 
Among things said by the callers 
were “You’re dead, you’re all dead, 
you just don’t know it!” and “Did 
you tell your brothers? Remem­
ber this tough guy, you’re all 
dead!”
The student believes that the 
calls were in reference to a brawl 
which had taken place at a fra­
ternity house. The student be­
longed to a different fraternity, 
and one of his brothers was sus­
pected of being involved in the 
affair.
10/30 PHONE HARASS­
MENT, 10:30 pm. An officer took 
a report from' a female student, 
who reported she had received an 
obscene phone call. The male 
caller said “Hello, I just spilled 
something on the front of me. 
Now it’s running down, all the 
way down to my belly.” Then the 
caller started moaning.
The studentwas advised to keep 
a log of any future calls, and to 
contact Campus Police if they 
continue.
11/1 FALSE ALARM ,8:30 am. 
Officers responded to a fire alarm 
at a fraternity house, but were 
unable to find the cause. Appar­
ently everyone had been in bed.
11/1 THEFT , 4:13 pm. A stu­
dent reported that when he picked, 
up his mail, he found an envelope 
with his name on it on a shelf. 
Inside the envelope was a bill for 
a CD the student had ordered.
Apparently, the CD had been 
placed in the wrqng box, and 
someone had taken the CD, and 
left the bill.
11/2 FAKE PERMIT, 1:51 pm.
While • patrolling the Tech Ga­
rage, an officer observed a fake 
temporary parking permit. The 
officer noticed the fake permit 
because it was the wrong color. 
The car was towed.
11/4 FIGHT, 12:49 am. Cam­
pus Police received a call from a 
resident of a fraternity house who 
stated that there was a large, 
male fighting with all the broth­
ers. He had been urinating in the 
sink.
When asked to leave, he had 
gotten to the front door, and then 
apparently the fight started. The 
student was told he would be re­
ceiving citations for underage 
drinking and disorderly conduct.
11/9 HARASSMENT, 12:30 
pm. An officer took a report of 
harassment at Porter Hall from 
an Indian food vendor. Appar­
ently a vendor from a rival In­
dian restaurant had been harass­
ing the individual daily, calling 
him names. The vendor claimed 
that the harassment commonly 
occurred between on campus.
11/9 MEDICAL ESCORT,
4:40 pm. An officer responded to 
Morewood Gardens A-Tower for 
a student who had severe stom­
ach pains and was vomiting. The 
officer found her in bed, vomiting 
in a trashcan.
She said that she had taken 
three No-Doze pills and then con­
sumed a lot of coffee. She was 
taken to Presbyterian-University 
Hospital.
The Tartan prints the Crime 
and Incident Report under the
following guidelines:
• Chief of Campus Police James 
LaPaglia reviews all reports prior 
to release.
• Only three people on The Tar­
tan staff see the repoi'ts: the Edi- 
tor-in-Chief the News editor, and 
the staffwriter who types the re­
port.
• All personal names of com­
plaints, victims, and suspect and 
fraternity names are omitted from 
the printed report. Ethnic descrip­
tions and other personal details 
are given only in the context of a 
complete description.
• Not every incident that occurs 
on campus appears in the report.
Compiled by 
RICK RIKOSKI
You pulled 83 all-nighters, 
crammed for 52 finals, and 
drank 3,506 cups of coffee.
Now it all comes 
down to this.
You worked hard to get 
your degree. Now put it to 
work for you. If you’re about 
to receive a Bachelor’s.
Master’s or Ph.D. in Electrical 
Engineering, Computer Engineering. 
Computer Science, Chemical Engi­
neering, Material Sciences, Applied 
Physics, or similar technical disci­
plines, join Intel. We have entry-level 
opportunities in IC and Hardware 
Design. Manufacturing, Software 
Engineering, and Information 
Technology. With a choice of
lifestyles at sites in northern 
California. Oregon, Arizona, 
New Mexico, and Washington 
state.
Send Your Resume 
to Intel Now
Send your ASCII resume via e-mail 
to jobs@intel.com. Or, post a letter- 
quality version to Intel, College 
Relations. Dept. M278, 1900 Prairie 
City Road. M/S FM3-145, Folsom, 
CA. 95630. For details on the world 
leader in information technology, see 
www.intel.com/intel/oppty.
iny
Intel Corporation is an cqiul opportunity cmplover and full)' supporti jlTirmamc action practicei. Intel alio lupports a drog.frcc uorkplace and requirés that all ofieri of empio;meni be contingent on satisfacton pre-cmplo>ment dnig tea result». 
'¦ IWJ. Intel Corporation.AII rifluì feicn ed Jntcì and thè Intel légo are resisterai trademarks of Intel Corporation.
M E D I M E I R I X *
For a career in Management Consulting
Medimetrix Group, one of the leading and largest independent 
healthcare management consulting firms in the country, is seeking 
several new college graduates to take the position of Analyst within 
our consulting division.
A career at Medimetrix is one that will provide sustained 
intellectual challenge, development of valuable business skills, and 
opportunity to work directly with senior management.
We will be interviewing on-campus December 
7th.
To be considered for our Interview schedule, please 
submit your resume to the Career Center by 
Thursday, November 16.
The Leader In Videoconferencing 
Wants To Meet With You.
Please submit 
your resume 
Oct. 31 - Nov. 15.
Come to our 
information session 
and Videoconference 
on Nov. 16,
6-8 pm. We will be 
on campus for 
interviews on 
Nov. 17.
f oard meetings that span
continents...a marketing associate in
Ohio sharing ideas (and spreadsheets!)
with an accountant in Malaysia.
Colleagues on opposite coasts meeting
face-to-face from their own desktops.
PictureTel is bringing people together
for a meeting of the minds.
PictureTel is all about videoconferencing 
technology that's redefining the way the 
world meets. As an employer, we're all about 
providing a forum for creative thinking, where 
engineering college graduates can let their 
ideas flow. In an upbeat jeans and t-shirt 
environment, we have built a diverse and 
exciting company that offers hands-on 
involvement as soon as you come aboard. 
Make time to meet with the leader in 
videoconferencing technology!
More information about PictureTel is 
available in the Placement Office, or at 
our Web Site: http://wunu.picturetel.com
R ____ If you cannot join us on campus,
Il TK -, I m ! 7-fcl Please send y°ur resume to PictureTel,
____I I 1(jTTU;P|Pl MAILSTOP 635C, 222 Rosewood Drive,
Danvers, MA 01923.Redefining The Way The World Meets email: resumes@pictel.com
PictureTel is an equal opportunity employer

---------------------------------------------------

FORUM
Carnegie Mellon University13 November 1995
University Center 
lacks student focus
As the University Center be­
gins to look inhabitable, we won­
der just what it will mean to 
students when it opens in the 
not-so-distant future. From what 
we’ve been told, it will house our 
dreams for a more unified cam­
pus community: there are bigger 
and better indoor sports facili­
ties; there is space, space, and 
more space; there are large audi­
toriums for bands and entertain­
ers; Dining services will suddenly 
serve edible food and be open 
more of the time. But how many 
of these promises are valid?
; Not as many as we hoped.
. After Skibo was maliciously 
ripped from the earth, we were 
given a Student Center to use 
until the University Center is 
unveiled next year. But why call 
one a Student Center and the 
other a University Center? Aren’t 
;they both for student use? While 
the current Student Center is 
devoted to student organizations, 
it does not function as a student 
center — it is inadequate tempo­
rary housing with a MAC ma­
chine and a post office.
The University Center, on the 
other hand, is being built specifi­
cally for organizations’ needs, 
socializing and recreation. There 
is even a theater for the weekend 
movies. Unfortunately, the the­
ater is not available for student 
use every weekend—movies will 
occasionally have to'be shown in 
! DH2210. Apparently, the theater 
room has already been leased to 
outside organizations, corpora­
tions, and, on some dates, con­
ferences and weddings. AB and 
SDC deserve to have a nice, new 
room for their movies every week­
end.
Student centers should be re­
served primarily for student use, 
and this may be why we are get­
ting a University Center—it will 
be for University use, whether it 
benefits the students or not. A 
closer look at the building’s blue­
prints strike the casual observer 
:as odd — the actual student fa­
cilities are confined to the third 
floor of the loggia. A small space 
:in a very large building. This 
sends a powerful message to the 
; students who want to use this 
facility.
More space for us all — that 
has dominated many of the ideas 
behind the University Center’s 
construction, and is why the Stu­
dent Center is currently inad­
equate. Yet, the actual space al­
located to student organizations 
is minimal. It is not just organi­
zations that suffer, either — the 
chapel is incredibly small, as are 
the spaces given to Entropy and 
Retail Services.
Dining Services is a problem to 
imany schools, and is no excep­
tion here. The Pittsburgh Post- 
Gazette recently ran an article 
about the large number of area 
restaurants which deliver food 
j to CMU. Sri’s, an ethnic restau­
rant, actually makes about 80 
deliveries here a day. Some say 
this stems from the increasingly 
contemptible meal plans, the 
outrageous prices ($6 for a High­
lander dinner?) the lines at 
Piper’s, and the erratic times that 
CMU eateries are open. Of 
¦ course, it may simply be the poor
APrER TU1S WEEK'S 
-Food SlKrA(fc AT 
-HKjULÁhipER...
ftfe AREN'T ALLoWED T0 
TAKE fooD Fans cAW WE 
LEAST TAKE"
quality of food served here.
But wait, there’s hope! The Uni­
versity Center will house a big­
ger and better cafeteria that will 
serve food we all love, at least 
that’s what the administration 
claims. They are using the new 
center as a scapegoat for not pro­
viding better services now. The 
University Center is supposed to 
solve all the inconsistencies we 
are suffering through. But that’s 
in August — what about now? 
Apparently, the problems we are 
having now — icky food, poor 
hours, high prices — will magi­
cally get fixed in the new center. 
While dropping Marriot is a great 
first step, the administration 
should be prepared to hear the 
same old complaints. A change 
of location isn’t going to make 
the food taste better.
The University Center will ac­
tually improve the dining atmo­
sphere (the new Scotland Yard is 
huge and has a balcony, the main 
food area will have murals sur­
rounding it) for it is offering not 
only another eating location, but 
hopefully somewhere where stu­
dents can hang out — that is 
something this campus desper­
ately needs.
Unfortunately, there seems to 
be a large number of meal carts 
here — with a new one to be 
added somewhere in Baker or 
Porter Hall — and this only en­
courages eating on the run. 
Piper’s is a crowded place at meal 
times, never used for much more 
than quick stop before rushing 
off again. Only at Highlander is 
there any semblance of people 
actually relaxing, but at what 
cost?
The University Center will 
therefore serve as an example 
for Dining Services to follow in 
how to run their various other 
outlets — we need to slow down 
more, stop to eat, revitalize, per­
haps even socialize.
We suggest that the Univer­
sity Center not be called such 
because of the obvious implica­
tion that students will not be its 
primary focus and function. Stu­
dent Center is better, but Skibo 
is a name with tradition and char­
acter built into it. It is cold and 
capitalistic to name the center 
after a donor that no students or 
faculty will actually know. Call­
ing the new building Skibo will 
not only suggest that students 
are thought about here, but it 
will also tie the new building 
into campus life that much 
quicker, and let us rightfully say 
“skinfo” again.
We also hope that Dining Ser­
vices actually improves its qual­
ity and performance next year, 
keeping in mind that these are 
internal changes that will only 
make the new facilities seem that 
much grander. We hope the Uni­
versity Center keeps students 
first and doesn’t cater to off-cam­
pus groups.
We have waited two years for 
this building and want the Uni­
versity to fulfill all of the prom­
ises it has made in its name. 
Instead of putting off current 
problems and waiting for the 
University Center to open, the 
administration needs to address 
these problems now.
Source of gov’t program sought
James Stepanek
O.K. I guess it’s about high time I 
tackled one of the big issues. It seems 
that I haven’t really kicked over a 
hornet’s nest yet this year, so I’ll try for 
the big one — Affirmative Action.
This is a big issue, so a single column 
won’t cover all of what needs to be said. 
Needless to say my view of the issue is 
that it is a Negative Reaction.
I’m going to cover the history of the 
issue in this column, and show how laws 
which were meant to outlaw discrimina­
tion were transformed into regulations 
which enshrine it.
It all began with the 1964 Civil Rights 
Act. This was a pretty straightforward 
piece of legislation which set up a fed­
eral agency to police discrimination. The 
agency was the EEOC, the Equal Em­
ployment Opportunity Commission.
The legislation was based on the prin­
ciple of color blindness in hiring. It had 
a large amount of language and amend­
ments in it which prohibited quotas and 
protected testing of quali fications. It was 
a very good piece of legislation by any 
measure. It even prohibited the EEOC 
from doing what federal agencies are 
often wont to do — expand the scope of a 
law beyond its defined boundaries by 
issuing interpretive regulation.
The writer of the bill, Hubert Humprey, 
vowed that if one could find language in 
the bill which would make employers 
apply quotas in hiring he would “start 
eating the pages one after another, be­
cause it is not in. there”.
What haoDened? That’s a hell of a 
question isn’t it? Well what happened is 
what often happens to things — the 
activist Judiciary, abetted by an over- 
zealous bureaucrat, took things and ran
with them.
The EEOC was initially headed(in re­
ality, if not in name) by a man named 
Alfred Blumrosen. He was an activist 
lawyer who believed that anything which 
has a bad impact on minorities must be 
defined as discrimination. This was di­
rectly contrary to the letter of the law 
which defined discrimination as a delib­
erate act.
He took his agency out after statistical 
disparities. Never mind if there had 
never been a complaint lodged at a given 
location, this wouldn’t stop Blumrosen. 
He required companies to provide sta­
tistics to the EEOC (not required by the 
law if the company already provided 
them to state agencies), and used this 
data to go after the employers. He nailed 
companies by threatening to withhold 
federal contracts when there was a sta­
tistical disparity.
He ordered the creation of regulations 
which defied the pro-testing wording of 
the original law. He acted as a law unto 
himself, without regard for Congress or 
any other lawful authority.
“So what happened?” you may ask. 
“Did he get nailed by Congress, the Presi­
dent, or the courts?”
Of course not— the liberal judges on 
the bench that day were the worst ex­
amples of activist judges ever to be seen 
in U.S. history.
In a series of rulings in the seventies 
they took a law issued by Congress, 
gutted out what they didn’t like, and 
created a whole new statute based solely 
on their perceptions of how the law 
should have been written.
The first example of this was Griggs vs 
Duke Power from 1971 in which the 
Supreme Court, in a direct flouting of 
the letter of the law. threw out the right 
of the power company to require either a 
high school degree or the passing of a 
competency test.
The Supreme Court even admitted
that the company was not trying to dis­
criminate by the requirement of the tests, 
but that the tests affected groups differ­
ently anyway. This was the birth of 
“disparate impact.” This is a core piece 
of Affirmative Action theory in which 
any action that produces such a dispar­
ate impact on a minority is inherently 
racist no matter what the cause or moti­
vations behind it.
This decision basically said that in 
hiring you could not use any measure of 
qualification on a minority on the off 
chance that it would have “disparate 
impact.”
The court went on in a number of other 
cases to back up this piece of legal escape 
artistry. Another landmark case was 
United Steelworkers vs Weber in 1974 in 
which the court declared that quotas 
were fine.
This was a case in which the company 
had applied quotas to avoid getting nailed 
by the EEOC and didn’t allow a white 
worker to get into a training program 
slot even though he had much more 
seniority than the blacks who were given 
the open slots.
The court declared in this case that 
discrimination against whites was “be­
nign discrimination” and the worker lost. 
This was directly contrary to the letter 
of the law that proscribed any discrimi­
nation.
The court majority, however, decided 
to follow the spirit of the law as they saw 
it instead of the letter of the law.
Thus they used their interpretation of 
a law as a justification to ignore the law 
itself.
There you have how Affirmative Ac­
tion was born: not in Congress or by any 
act of the people’s will, but by the fixa­
tion of a bureaucrat and the whims of an 
activist Supreme Court.
James Stepanek is a graduate student 
in MSE.
Inspiration found in strange places
« Trtm HamiTom Harper
The weirdest 
things get my 
mind racing 
sometimes ... 
maybe it’s just amy per_
sonality. Maybe that’s why I’m here at this university. The 
more I think about such things, the more I make some 
really cool observation about life. Or not.
One day I woke up and for some strange reason I looked 
at my pillow. There was a single hair on it. But this hair 
was not anything ordinary. It was a squiggly hair. It had 
a few curves and it tapered off at the end. It looked like the 
doodles I used to draw in high school. The more I thought 
about this squiggly hair the more I thought about what I’m 
going to look like when I _____________________________
"And just when this torso saves 
Newt from being sucked out of the 
air- lock into space, I wondered about 
the miracle of life, living and the 
resiliance of the human spirit...”
get older if the stress 
here doesn’t age me fifty 
years. My dad has never 
had a problem with 
keeping his hair, and he 
has more than his share 
of stress. So we can de­
duce that this won’t be a 
problem for me later in 
life, and I won’t have to 
neurotically look at my 
pillow in future morn­
ings. I’ll be safe for the majority of my life.
Another day 1 was watching Aliens with a few people. 
Near the end when everyone wonders where the hell the 
Queen went and Ripley congratulates Bishop on a job well 
done, the Queen makes her presence known by impaling 
Bishop on her sharp-bladed tail, lifting him twenty feet off 
the floor, and after leaving him to writhe in agony for about 
half a minute, she flicks her tail and sends Bishop in two 
pieces off to the sides... a pair of legs on one side and a torso 
on the other.
And just when this torso saves Newt (I think that’s the 
little girl’s name ... struck me as rather odd) from being 
sucked out of the air lock into' space, I wondered about the 
miracle of life, living, and the resiliance of the human 
spirit just from seeing this torso give his all to save Newt’s 
life. It wasn’t until later that I found out that Bishop was
. I also wondered why I can’t have my own personal Power 
Loader to deal with certain people.
You know who you are.
I can imagine just getting in my Power Loader and 
walking my way to class, and if someone makes fun of my 
hat I could just .grab them with a titanium robotic arm and 
drag them along the ground. I think that’d be kind of fun, 
but I do not foresee that happening. I’m a really nice guy. (I 
even have references.)
While typing this column in 5419,1 wondered why there 
are no^pretty icons on the folders on this Mac. There even 
isn’t an MS Word logo on the icon for this document.
I’m not complaining about that, of course. In my opinion 
the absolute last thing society needs is more Microsoft, but 
the drab Desktop looks very uninviting. 
________________________________ As a technical writ­
ing major, I have to 
notice things like this.
I also wondered why 
there are no MacLogins 
on the 5419 Macs. If 
you ask me MacLogin 
is the most useless pro­
gram I’ve ever seen, 
outside of Logic Works 
that my 18-240-taking 
friends are always com­
plaining about. It’d be
nice if MacLogin could be geared to speed up execution of 
MacMail, MacIP, and Fetch, by just entering the user id and 
password right from MacLogin. But from what I’ve seen, a 
lot of people don’t even logout of MacLogin.
I wish I could change their password to something un­
original and juvenile just to tick them off for a little bit, but 
I find that I can’t, which is just awful.
Oh well.
Why is it even there, anyway? Is it to prevent some guy off 
the street walking in and using Word or Swivel Pro or— 
heaven forbid — MS PowerPoint?
If so, it seems they’re perfectly welcome to come into 5419 
and do so. .
Sometimes I hear people say, “I’m just rambling.” I think 
it’s pretty good to ramble.
Sometimes the most profound thoughts spring to mind, 
an android and not a human. But still, the thought stayed So go ahead and ramble. And if someone tells you not to, I’M 
with me aiid I eventually transferred it from the torso to come by in my Power Loader.
Bishop’s maker.
What a wonderful idea to make Bishop so that if he was 
ever reduced to a torso he can still perform acts of heroism. 
If only real people could do that. Train wreck victims could 
be useful members of society.
Junior technical writing major Tom Harper will not send 
threatening letters to the President if you leave yourself 
logged in. Instead, he will do everything in his power to 
change your password to “doodyface.”

---------------------------------------------------

The Tartan • Carnegie Mellon University • 13 November 19957
Writer examines positive aspects of asbestos
* Jon Orris
I wrote last time about envi­
ronmentalist hysteria about 
DDT. This sort of hysteria comes 
from a perception that any poten­
tially harmful substance is a 
grave danger in even the most 
minute concentrations.
In the 6ase of DDT, environ­
mentalists were concerned pri­
marily with the (nonexistent) risk 
to animals of exposure to DDT. 
My example this week is one 
where environmentalists are sup­
posedly concerned with a danger 
to man. This danger is asbestos.
Asbestos is accused of causing 
lung cancer and other severe res­
piratory diseases in people ex­
posed to it. This is true only if one 
completely ignores some impor­
tant facts. There are several dif­
ferent forms of asbestos that have 
differing health effects. There are 
two types of asbestos that have 
been used almost exclusively in 
the United States, Chrysotile or 
white asbestos, and Crocidolite 
or blue asbestos. Blue accounts 
for roughly five percent of asbes­
tos use, and has been used little if 
at all for decades. White accounts 
for most of the other 95 percent.
Blue asbestos has indeed been 
shown to be extremely danger­
ous. Epidemiological studies of 
people who have worked with it 
show large increases in lung can­
cer and respiratory disease after 
only short-term, relatively light 
exposure.
White asbestos, on the other 
hand, is relatively harmless. 
Among people working with this 
form of asbestos there is a slight 
increase in lung cancer and other 
respiratory illnesses. The concen­
trations they were exposed to 
averaged 20 fibers / cubic centi­
meter over several decades. Since 
asbestos is a naturally occurring 
mineral, it gets into the atmo­
sphere where everyone is exposed 
to it. The concentration experi­
enced by everyone else is around 
1 fiber/cc, slightly higher in areas 
with high concentrations of as­
bestos in the rocks, such as in the 
areas where it is mined. In build­
ings with asbestos insulation, the 
contribution is often around 0.01 
to 0.001 fibers/cc. There is no evi­
dence that this small exposure 
causes any harm at all.
Remember that this harmless
form accounts for roughly 95 per­
cent percent of the asbestos used 
in the U.S. Chrysotile fibers are 
structurally strong, conduct heat 
poorly,, and are fireproof. This 
has made white asbestos ex­
tremely useful as an insulator, 
especially in high temperature 
environments.
In such applications, substi­
tutes are poor, dangerous to 
people, or both.
Since the harmless variety of 
asbestos predominates and is 
extremely useful, one wonders 
why it was banned and why ev­
eryone is in a rush to extract 
every scrap of it from schools and 
workplaces.
The answer is that when the 
EPA issued reports on asbestos 
in the early ’80s, the reports did 
not discriminate between white 
and blue asbestos forms.
Beyond that, the EPA reports 
were ridiculously hysterical. The 
EPA began its campaign against 
asbestos by visiting school boards 
and suggesting that asbestos was 
hideously dangerous, that even 
one fiber of asbestos could cause 
little Johnny or Sally to develop 
serious lung disease, and that 
school administrators were re­
sponsible for determining if as­
bestos was present and taking 
preventive action if it was.
Later acts by Congress and fur­
ther EPA regulations mandated 
that all school buildings be in­
spected for asbestos and that if it 
is found, corrective action must 
be taken immediately.
The EPA’s inspection proce­
dures were a joke. Instead of 
measuring the concentration of 
asbestos fibers in the air, the mere 
presence of exposed asbestos 
somewhere in the building was 
enough to justify corrective ac­
tion. Corrective action consisted 
of not of simply sealing off the 
asbestos, which in many cases 
could be accomplished by a good 
coat of paint, but in complete re­
moval.
The cost of removal is astro­
nomical. The price for removing 
asbestos is often on the order of 
$10 million per building. Since 
the asbestos hysteria has caused 
forced asbestos removal from 
other public and private build­
ings, total costs have run into 
hundreds of billions of dollars 
nationwide.
Ironically, removal increases 
the concentration of asbestos in 
the air dramatically, to around 
20 to 40 fibers/cc, even months
after removal. This is especially 
stupid in the case of older build­
ings that do contain the danger­
ous blue asbestos. In this case, 
the removal puts both children 
and removal workers at extreme 
risk, since moderate exposure, 
even with protective equipment, 
can cause respiratory illness. 
Reason would suggest that if blue 
asbestos is present, it should be 
isolated and sealed up, but rea­
son is not part of asbestos regula­
tion.
As with the case of DDT, hyste­
ria over asbestos has resulted in 
a harmless, tremendously useful 
material being demonized and 
banned at great detriment to ev­
eryone.
In these and innumerable other 
cases of environmental contami­
nants, the response of environ­
mentalists and their friends in 
government are characteristi­
cally devoid of any sort of ratio­
nal consideration of facts.
Their sole concern is with gain­
ing power via the contemptible 
process of fear mongering.
Jon Orris welcomes any ques­
tions or comments concerning his 
column. He is a student in 
compuer science.Expatriate relates student’s tale of woe, sorrow
Douglas Howe
“Werrdez. Werrdez. Werrdez.”
I made a spelling mistake last week with 
my opening line, but luckily my best friend 
from home, in New Jersey, came to Pitts­
burgh via Tanzania, to correct me (I’ll
explain later). He seems to hold the ------
belief that life would be a lot simpler, 1
-with more love and harmony, if ev­
eryone just learned to spell phoneti­
cally. Thus, words would become 
werrdez. He’s been my best friend 
since the seventh grade and 
debatably we share a brain, so I tend 
to agree with most anything he says.
I’m such a push-over.
It’s probably the hair.
His, not mine.
But since it’s probably isn’t going to be 
such an easy task to accomplish, being 
that everybody is so blasted old-fashioned 
with the “Oh, I don’t want to change my 
language. I lik;e spelling things in weird 
i ways. It makes me feel superior to those 
third-world-country languages,” he at least 
wants to coin the Werrde Language.
The Werrde Language consists of words 
that are spelled differently for dramatic 
effect. For instance, the word photo is 
normally spelled quite like this: photo. 
But some stores decided that they would 
be cool and spell it like this: foto. That, my 
friends, is a werrde.
Another switch is based on the change 
from the human word, shop, to the alien 
formation, shoppe. I can’t dig deep enough 
' into the recess of our cultural psyche to say 
why we accept stuff like this, but we do. So 
we might as well have a standard of ac- 
I knowledging it.
Chris, my bud from home, does this to 
me quite often, actually. I’m sure I could 
have become a real, upstanding, logical, 
normal citizen if it hadn’t been for him.
can have such a powerful effect on you, but 
they do. He was the guy who actually 
convinced me to try out for the school play 
the first time, and now I’m pursuing a 
career in drama.
Granted, all of his ideas weren’t great 
ones. The lime green tuxes we wore to our 
senior prom were debatable, and when we 
announced the president had been shot 
over the P.A. at school, we may very well
Well, his trip was cut short due to the 
fact that he was kicked out of the country 
by the United States Embassy and the 
Tanzanian Government. I wish there was 
a good story as to why, but it only involves 
catching pneumonia, with a threat of ma­
laria, and abiding by guidelines. Luckily, 
he did manage to hold the plane hostage 
for a few hours before takeoff, so all was 
balanced out.
“Granted all of his ideas weren’t great ones. The 
lime green tuxes we wore to our senior prom were 
debatable, and when we announced the president 
had been shot over the P. A. at school, we may very 
well have gone overboard. ”
It’s hard to believe that certain people
have gone a bit overboard.
He’s the type of guy who, if and when I 
get married, my wife won’t let visit too 
long because she’ll be afraid he’ll warp the 
children. The only reason I’m friends with 
him is because my mother wouldn’t let me 
keep live chickens in the house.
So Tanzania: You know? African Tanza­
nia? Half-way-across-the-globe Tanzania? 
What about it?
Well, students at Connecticut College, 
where Chris goes, take their first semester 
junior year abroad.
Most of Chris’s friends chose nice, safe, 
dependable places like England or Ire­
land, and maybe even Italy. Chris, on the 
other hand, decided on Tanzania. Why? 
“Because when am I ever going to get to go 
to Africa?”
So off he went from August to December, 
to learn Swahili and dig up bones. Chris is 
also the type of person that would actually 
dig up something important, like the skull 
of the oldest evolutionary man and get his 
picture slapped on every major magazine 
and history book in the world. Then of 
course, he’d keep it for himself and use it 
as an ashtray.
So there he was, on my couch, at one in 
the morning, eating chips.
My best friend for the longest time who 
had been in the country for a month, re­
garded as an expatriate because of a mix- 
up in citizenship with Tanzania, doesn’t 
call or write, just shows up to tell me I 
misspelled gourd in a letter I sent him. It 
was nice, though.
I never was very good at spelling. I 
spelled my own name Dug until I was four. 
I guess that makes it a werrde.
The reason I wrote all this was to tell you 
a story about Chris’s friend at school. It is 
by far the funniest and yet most vile tale 
I’ve ever encountered, and I thought you’d 
all enjoy it as well. The story is called The 
Ass Trigger.
We begin with an anxious young man, 
age 19. He’d gone to college in search of 
fine women and wine.
He was a virgin, as many freshman are, 
but was looking for some quick lovin’ where 
ever he could find it.
One night he was at a party having a few 
too many drinks, and he met a lady who 
had also consumed some hair of the dog. 
They started dancing and then she said,
“Let’s go up to your room.” Needless to 
say, he was quite excited.
They went up to his room and started 
makin’ some magic. Then she said, “Let’s 
do it.”
Well, our little hero was overwrought 
with joy and got ready. In the midst of 
the dirty deed, the girl said, “I want it in 
(I don’t want to get graphic, yet, so bear 
with me) rear.”
He does as she asks, because it’s his 
first time and he doesn’t know if it’s the 
“normal” thing or not. In the process, he 
accidentally hits the ass trigger.
Many great minds have debated the 
existence of the ass trigger, but we’ll go 
along with the belief that it is indeed 
there. He hits the ass trigger and she, 
well, she has an experience all over his 
business.
Being a normal human being, he re­
acts and vomits all over her back. Feel­
ing this hit her back, she, in turn does 
the same all over his bed.
So there they are, two strangers in the 
night, covered in bile and dung. The 
moral of the story, one of many, is, I 
suppose, if you’re stupid enough to have 
sex with someone that you don’t know 
and she asks you to do her up the butt 
and you do, whatever you do, don’t hit 
the ass trigger, or you’re gonna have a 
high laundry bill, real low self-esteem, 
and tremors for the rest of your sexual 
life.
So there it is, in all its glory. I’m sorry 
if you were offended, but it’s something 
that just has to be told.
It’s like a ghost story for the sexual 
generation. Oh, and Chris thinks slacks 
is a really good word too.
Think about the rhythm of it: “Hi, I’m 
wearing a new pair of slacks.”
Doug Howe is a junior drama major 
from New Jersey and is very proud of it. 
He hasaninnie belly button, likes Spam, 
and has been struck by lighting, and will 
die if he eats green peppers.
A PERSON’S
OPINION
Winter is here and the sea­
son for celebration is loom­
ing above us like a pithy de­
mon. People everywhere just 
want to have wild fun, and 
they’ll do it any way they 
can. Therefore, we asked: If 
you had a party, which 
professor would you in­
vite?
Chris Ravin
Junior
Biology
“Eric Grotzinger—Instead of 
telling me I’m a complete mo­
ron, he said, ‘Maybe you should 
reconsider that’ in a nice way.”
Sonya Brantt
Freshman
Art
“Faith Wilding- 
and spirited.”
- She’s lively
Paul Constantinides 
Sophomore 
ECE
“Menachem Kojman — He 
loves giving out candy.”
Jim Snyder/Darkroom Manager
Mary Laurie
Freshman
CIT
“Russ Walker — Russ is god!”
THE TARTAN
Carnegie Mellon’s Student Newspaper 
Since 1906
Editor-in-chief.... Lauren E. Heinz 
Managing Ed. Kenneth J. Kraemer
Business Manager........Amit Kar
News Editor...........Jason Togyer
Forum Editor.............John Biggs
Sports Co-Editors .... Paul Boothe
.........................Matthew Solitro
Features Editor. Shannon Gibney 
Diversions Editor.... Eric Salzman
Calendar Editor.............Sharmila
Venkatasubban 
Dossier Dsgn. Eds.Brockett Horne
...........................Jennifer Zleserl
Dossier Lit. Eds. Adriane Seibert
.........................Kevin Meehan
Art Co-Eds. ... Francine Gemperle
.............................Gabrien Symons
Photo Ed......Andrew McDermott
Production Mgr............Kathy Liu
Systems Manager..........1-Ping Li
Copy Manager............Eric Strauss
Asst. Features Ed. Jillian Watkins 
Asst. Diversions Ed. ... Ena Kahn 
Asst. Prod. Mgr. ..Shantanu Rana 
Photo Staff Mgr. Jason Siegendorf 
Darkroom Manager.... Jim Snyder 
Personnel Mgr......Brian Curfman
Senior Staff 
Gil Alterovltz, Jason Andrackl, 
Matt Bali, Darren Chiappetta, 
Chlntan Shah
Staffwriters 
Yosef Birnboim, Chris Cannon, 
SteveCharnoubi, Carey Clevenger, 
Tricia Davis, Shiv Dewan, Neil 
Donnely, Gretel Gaal, Dan 
Goldwasser, Anuj Gupta, Tom 
Harper, Jason Heinlein, David Ko­
ran, Wladimir Labeikovsky, Alex 
Lewin, April C. Moate, Angela 
Molloy, Jonmlchael L.T. Moy, 
Suzanne Paddock, Sudhir Reddy, 
Rick Rikoskl, Rick Simmons, 
James Stepanek, Jessica Strelitz, 
Paul Tabachneck, Bill Vandeimark, 
Dawn Wallhausen, Andrew Wang, 
Susan Watson, Bradley 
Zimmerman, Heather Zlndle
Art
Mark Eggert, Karri Plotkin, Ryan 
Rhoades, Damon Wong
Comics
Nick Casciato Jr., Hlromi. 
Hasegawa, Robert Slater, Dave 
White, Daniel Yauger, Mike Yeh, 
S. Hyun Yim
Photo
Vlneet Agarwal, Jaroslav 
Delapedraja, Josh Freeman, 
Michael Howard, Sandy Lll, 
Gustavo Sganzerla, Maria 
Valenti, Yuzo Watanabe
Darkroom 
Ellas Fallon, Scott Hess, Helen 
Huang, Carla Sereny
Production 
Lisa Don, Heather Keith, Jennifer 
LI, Lester Manzano, Elizabeth 
Neuman
Copy
Lori Bowes, Renee Cardelll, Mimi 
Cheng, Ivor Clarke, Madhav 
Ghanta, D. Renee Hairston, Win­
ter Mason, Helena McGahagan, 
Victor Ortega, Catherine 
Senderling, M. J. Wilson, Elizabeth 
Zambelli
Business 
Lin Dai, Patricia DIGiuseppI, 
Stephen Hsu
Junior Staff 
Kaori Aoyama, Diana Bartolotta, 
Lome Colon, Annemarie Devine, 
Ryan Donovan, Alexandra 
Grundeman, Anukul Kapoor, Hanjay 
Kim, Jay Miolla, Dizzy Murphy, Ken­
neth Namkung, Dan Rosenberg, 
Minh Tran, Aaron Welsberg
Tlio Tartan Is toe student newspaper of Carnegie Mellon University] 
It is a weekly newspaper published by students during the fall and 
sprlngscmesters.atnocostto members of too Universltycommunity. 
It is printed by Western Pennsylvania Printing. Inc. Subscriptions are 
available for toe semester or ocademic year. The editorials appearing 
at toe beginning of toe opinion section are toe official opinion of Tho 
Tartan editorial board. Columns and political cartoons are toe 
opinions of Individual creators. Tho Tartan reserves toe nght to reject 
orcondense any column or political cartoon.letter» to the Editor ore 
opinions of autoors who are usually, but not necessarily, members of 
toe University community. A letter Intended for publication must be 
signed and include toe wrtter's address and phone number for 
verification. Names may be withheld upon request. Tho Tartan 
requests that letters be no longer than 500 words. The T*rtan 
reserves toe right to condense or reject any letter. Coppighi O1995 
by ThoTartan.TheTartaneditonai board reserves toe nghtto withhold from publication any copy it deems unfit for publication.
Office: Student Center Room 104 
Phone: 412/268-2111 
Mai hngaddress: The Tartan /8o> 17/C amegic 
Mellon University/Pittsburgh. PA 15213-3890 
Funded in part by your Activities Fee.
Ail rights reserved.
Library of Congress ISSN •: 0890-3107.
The Tartan is a member of toe Associated Press.Ap

---------------------------------------------------

Apartments Available in the 
Oakland and Shadyside Areas
Efficiency, 1, and 2 Bedroom 
Furnished Apartments 
Laundry Facilities 
Wall to Wall Carpeting 
Security Building
H&P Real Estate 
682-1519
7am - 5pm • Monday thru Sunday
No, Really. It's Software]
Open Environment is a fast-growing, fast-paced, fun and exciting work 
environment, and now we'd like you to take a look and explore the 
possibility of joining us. 
We are looking for intelligent, fun, and creative individuals with an interest 
in working in Software Development, Quality Assurance, System 
Administration, and Technical Writing. Really we are. 
With a name like Open Environment, you might think we make stuff for the 
outdoors, or that our business deals directly with ecology. 
However, we'd like to assure you that we're a software development 
company. Really we are. 
Actually, Open Environment is a pioneering company in three-tiered 
client/server systems.
Our software, which is intelligent middleware, helps application 
programmers design faster, more efficient client/server applications. 
Really It does.
We'll be conducting an Information Session on your campus on 
December 7th and Interviews on December 8th. Please submit 
your resume to the Career Center by November 14th for 
consideration.
Realty
Open Environment 
Coming Soon To A Campus Near You...-
...and ai ready on the WWW @ http://www.cec.corr,
ih Pftif)ErrRWH —e siHE d n siIv tClmma)ErrRWH ——e siIv m n (i-iru mC lmma
The oldest American University 
in Europe offers: •
** More than 75 courses from the University's curriculum 
for credit or audit from a wide range of disciplines 
French Immersion — 3-week Program Weekend
Excursions and Day Trips to Historic Regions of Europe 
Special "College Preview” High School Program in Paris 
For complete program information, call or write:
The. American University of Paris Summer Programs 
Box 22. 31. av. Bosquet, 75343 Paris Cedex 07 
Tel. (33/1) 40 62 06 00 Fax (33/1) 47 05 33 49 
New York office: Tel. (212) 677-4870 
Web site - http://www.aup.fr E-mail - Summer@aup.fr
AUP. The American University of Paris.
iruSoIRoOp 
ob
Tokyo$408
Hong Kong$444
Bangkok$483
Seoul$483
Beijing$642
Auckland$705
Sydney$669
Perth$876
Airfares are from Pittsburgh each way based on a 
round trippurchascandmay requirean International 
Studenl.Youth or Faculty I.D. Taxes & surcharges 
arc not included. Fares are subject to change.
CouncilTravel
CIEE: Council on International 
Educational Exchange
Internet: http:/www.cicc.org/cts/ctshomc.htm 
118 McyranAvc, Pittsburgh, PA 15213.... JlPijMM':
Pro/ENGINEER “The Winning Edge”
With its powerful and innovative line of Pro/ENGINEER CAD/CAM software prod­
ucts, and recently acquired MECHANICA® analysis software, Parametric Technology Corporation is 
outracing the competition by helping Fortune 500 leaders outpace theirs.
Today, our continuing record-breaking success and growth create opportunities to join 
our “winning team” worldwide. We have challenging positions for achievement-oriented graduates in 
the areas of MECHANICAL ENGINEERING and SOFTWARE ENGINEERING.
Rated as one of the nation's fastest growing public corporations by Fortune, Forbes, 
Business Week and INC. magazines, PTC tops Financial World's list of “America's 50 Best Mid-Cap 
Companies” while Pro/ENGINEER wins acclaim as Industry Week's “Technology of the Year.”
PTC offers a stimulating, dynamic professional environment plus highly competitive 
compensation, a matching 401 (k) plan, employee stock purchase plan, educational assistance, and 
a fully paid benefits package. To explore a future with us, please visit your Career Center today. 
Direct resumes are also accepted. Mail/fax to Human Resources: Mechanical Engineering - Dept. 
PJ/CM; Software Engineering - Dept. NS/CM, Parametric Technology Corporation, 128 Technology 
Drive, Waltham, MA 02154. FAX: (617) 398-5674. We are an equal opportunity employer M/F/D/V.
"If you want exposure to the big picture...to solve real life
problems and participate in the business...PTC is the place."
Karen Gold
Manager, Systems & Analysis
PARAMETRIC
For most currentPTC information, look us .up on 
the World Wide Web: http://www.ptc.com
HUMANITIES
--------- and-----------
SOCIAL SCIENCES 
Carnegie Mellon ¦
66-210, Section A, Science and Technology for the Environ­
ment, 9 units, TR 1:30-2:50 pm. Instructor: Indira Nair.
Objective: We begin with the premise that it is essential to 
understand a few scientific principles and the basic premise 
and practice of technology for two important objectives: (1) 
to understand how the environment works, and how science 
and technology affect it; and (2) to ensure that science and 
technology work for (and, not against) the natural environ­
ment. The aim of this course is to'explore the use of science 
and technology in the context of the earth's natural environ­
ment. Specifically, students will learn the basic principles of 
science and technology that can enable them to understand 
environmental phenomena, and the effects of human activity 
on these. These principles will be learnt through their use in 
the context of environmental issues. Students will also 
examine the values, assumptions and actions that have 
guided our actions towards the environment, and the result­
ing impacts. Most of the classes will demand active participa­
tion of the students in the form of discussions, group projects 
and some field observations. Pre-requisites: sophomore 
; standing or permission of instructor. A required course in the 
;7: H&SS Environmental Studies minor.
-79-340, Section A, A Seminar in the History of CMU, 9 units, 
W 3-5 pm. Instructors: Edwin Fenton and Edward Schatz
Each participant in this seminar will research a topic and
Attention: The following H&SS courses, to be offered Spring 1996, either did not 
appear in the Spring 1996 Course Schedule booklet, or were listed incorrectly:
write a paper about an aspect of the history of Carnegie 
Technical Schools/Carnegie Tech/Carnegie Mellon Univer­
sity. In addition to seminar meetings, each participant will 
meet with one of the instructors in private conferences. The 
seminar is limited to ten students recruited from a wide range 
of departments in all five undergraduate colleges. They will 
learn how to write papers developed from primary sources as 
they explore the history of this fascinating institution. Grades 
will be based on this research paper. No exams. An interview 
with Dr. Fenton (efl9) or Dr. Schatz (es42) is required before 
acceptance into the course.
80-241/741, Section A, Ethical Judgments in Professional 
Life, 9 units, self-paced (with scheduled meetings January 19, 
March 15, and April 12). Instructor: Peter Madsen
Never before have the professions been confronted with so 
many ethical issues, problems, and dilemmas. And never 
before have professionals had such a pressing need to prepare 
themselves to make hard choices about these ethical matters. 
The obligations that exist to clients, third party payers, other 
professionals and society have become increasingly complex 
such that a discipline like professional ethics has emerged as a 
new component of the definition of professionalism. This 
course is designed to navigate the many moral mazes that 
confront professionals and the professions. The consider­
ations that professionals find ethically perplexing that will 
form the basis for the studies of this course include:
whistleblowing; professional conduct and behavior; AIDS and. 
the medical profession; conflicts of interest; ethical client 
relationships; confidentiality; the role and responsibilities of 
professionals in corporations; professionalism and managerial ’: 
style; the status of professional associations. The course is 
designed to be self-paced using a multimedia approach, that 
includes videos, a workbook and audiotapes. Typically, 
students will view one video per week from the 14-one half 
hour videos that are available for viewing in Instructional 
Technology in Building D. They will read the corresponding 
chapter from the assigned workbook, listen to the correspond- i 
ing audiotape and complete the chapter self-study questions. 
Then, students will engage in a guided dialogue during that 
week on the electronic bulletin board reserved for the course 
on Andrew. The course fulfills distribution requirements of 
Category 3 ("DCR3") in the H&SS General Education pro­
gram.
82-345, Section A, Intro to Hispanic Literary and Cultural 
Studies, 9 units, MWF 2:30-3:20; Instructor: Kenya Dworkin
Incorrectly listed under "seminars"; should be listed under 
"Spanish" courses.
85-105, Section A, Creativity and Cognition, 9, TR6:00- 
7:50 (Primarily for BHA students; others by instructor permis­
sion). Instructor: Aaron Kozbelt

---------------------------------------------------

The Tartan • Carnegie Mellon University • 13 November 19959
Administration
IM Director— Mike Mastroianni x8- 
2214; Asst. Director—Mike Grzywinski 
683-2938; IM Secretary — Michelle 
Matta X8-2053; IM Co-Presidents — 
Mike Monico and Sean Keane x2-2900; 
IM Women's President — Patty Bruno.
Important Dates
Monday— IM Soccer playoffs begin.
Tuesday — Six Person Volleyball 
Championship and Racquetball Cham­
pionship.
Thursday— Soccer Championships 
and Three Person Volleyball Begins.
November 28— IM Board Meeting, 
12:30 pm in the Gym Conference Room.
Six-Person Volleyball
The championship games for Six 
Person Volleyball will take place on 
Tuesday. The intermediate champion­
ship will take place at 8:45 pm while 
the women's, majors and minors cham­
pionships will be played at 9:45 pm. 
The IM Department wishes all partici­
pants good luck during the playoffs.
Soccer
Soccer playoffs for the 1995 Intra­
mural Soccer season began on Sun­
day. The soccer season will come to an 
end on Championship Thursday as four 
champions will be crowned.
The championship games on Thurs­
day will feature the intermediate and 
minors games at 6:30 pm and the 
women’s and majors finals at 7:30 pm.
games will take place in Gesling 
Stadium.
Racquetball
The minors and intermediate semi­
finals will take place this evening. The 
championship games of both the mi­
nors and majors will take place on 
Tuesday.
Chess
The playoffs for 1995 IM chess sea­
son will be posted on Wednesday. All 
teams should turn results into the IM 
office by Monday.
Backgammon, Bowling, Team Table 
Tennis, Darts
All winning teams are reminded to 
turn in scores within 24 hours of the 
:onclusion of your games. Scores not 
received in the IM office will be re­
corded as double forfeits.
Three-Person Volleyball
The 1995 Three Person Volleyball 
¡eason will begin on Thursday. All teams 
are reminded to stop by the IM office to 
pick up schedules.
Updates
The IM Board has decided that teams 
can vote whether they want to play the 
1996 Intramural Floor Hockey season 
vith a plastic puck or plastic ball.
All teams that enter get one vote, 
¡nd after the votes are counted, the IM 
)epartmentwill use one orthe otherfor 
he entire year or on a trial basis, 
’lease make sure that you vote when 
rau submit your roster.
Also, this yearthe IM Department will 
mplement a non-checking league, 
teams will have to choose which league 
they want to play in. If you have any 
gestions call IM Director Mike 
Mastroianni at X8-2214.
Submitted by 
MICHELLE MATTA
Do you like playing Basketball?
Do you like watching Basketball?
Do you like writing about Basketball?
If you answered yes to this last question, then we have a place for you! Contact THE TARTAN by 
calling 268-2111 or by email: TASTAN@andrew.cmu.edu
Rugby Club rumbles over Ohio Northern, 29-10
Andrew IVIcDermott/Tartan Photo Editor 
The Tartans sprint downfield through the mud and Ohio Northern's 
line en route to a 29-10 victory.
RUGBY, from page 12
were able to stop them.” 
Immediately after the initial 
kickoff, Carnegie Mellon began 
knocking Ohio Northern back­
wards over and over again until 
they were pinned against their 
try-zoneline. Finally, CMU picked 
up an Ohio Northern fumble, and, 
moments later, Dan Stauffer, club 
president, ran the ball in for a 
five-point try. The two-point con­
version kick taken after the try 
was missed, however.
Leading 5-0, CMU returned the 
kickoff, and quickly went to work.
Five minutes later, Winston 
worked around the outside for an 
easy score. CMU finished the half 
leading 10-0.
In the second half, the Ohio 
team was awarded its first points 
of the match after converting a
^ v
penalty kick, making the score 
10-3.
The well-muddied CMU squad 
recieved the kickoff, and started 
to drive. However, due to penal­
ties, the team soon found them­
selves in a goal line stand. CMU 
held for about five minutes. Then, 
the taller CMU squad inched the 
ball away from their tryzone 
through an ingenious strategy of 
lineouts followed by quick kicks 
directly out of bounds. The Tar­
tans then drove down the field 
and Javier Rocha rambled in for 
the score. Larry Adams easily 
made the conversion.
Rocha’s score brought his total 
to nine tries this season, CMU’s 
all-time season scoring record. 
That is just about twice the pre­
vious record. This feat is espe­
cially impressive considering the
shortened schedule caused by sev­
eral opponents forfeiting matches.
Losing 17-3, the Ohio team 
came back with a vengence. An 
Ohio player picked off a CMtJ 
pass and ran the ball 60 yards for 
the easy try. The successful lack 
made it 17—10.
On the ensuing kickoff, CMU 
quickly drove the Ohio team back- 
Then a penalty was called on OhlB. 
Scott Weber was able to take 
penalty kick and run 30 ysvicfe 
almost to the tryzone. Mike Keller 
was able to finish off the drive; 
but the conversion was missed, 
putting the score at 22-10. • ‘;
The CMU scrummies drove 
down the field against the high 
wind to set up a Shawn Ragiel try 
that sealed the victory. Adams 
scored another conversion, pulf: 
ting the final score at 29-10. :

---------------------------------------------------

University Center Space Allocation Board
The University Center Allocation Board has completed its preliminary evalua­
tion of all of the applications. As part of the allocation process, the Board would 
like to receive input from the campus community in general and the student 
organizations about the evaluations.
:On November 28, 29, and 30, organizations with concerns about the proposed 
allocation are asked to contact the Office of Student Activities (268-8705) and 
schedule a time to meet with members of the University Center Allocation 
. Board. The Board will then discuss all concerns and make its final recommen- 
• dation to Dean Murphy (Dean of Student Affairs). The Dean will then make the 
¦ final allocation of space upon those recommendations.
, Below are the preliminary assignments for the student organizations:
.Room
“302
303C
&03D
'303F
’303G
303H
3031
304
306
309
310 
3Ï8 
'319
‘ 321B 
-321C 
• 321D
i 321E 
; 049 
. 0MP
Organization
ALLIES/Society for Creative Anachronism/Ballroom Dance.
Scotch N’ Soda
KGB/cmuOUT
InterVarsity Christian Fellowship/Hillel Foundation 
EMS
Student Government
Student Government Conference Room
Activities Board
Tartan
SafeWalk/Earth/Spring Carnival 
Thistle/Student Union 
Student Dormitory Council 
Graduate Student Organization
Mayur/Society of Automotive Engineers/Filmmaking Club 
Alpha Phi Omega
Society of Women Engineers/Society of Hispanic and Professional 
Engineers
Spirit/National Society of Black Engineers 
WRCT 88.3 
Women’s Center
Carrel Considerations: Storage: ^Q-Çatipn.:.
International Student Union College Bowl 321F
Political Speakers Forum Board Juggling Club 321F
'Salsa Origami Club 321F
•Strange Brew Gun Club 321F
Newman Club Kiltie Band 321F (Closet)
First Church of Christ, Abortionist 
Pre-Law Society 
Asian Student Association 
Korean Student Association 
Pioneers 
Fringe 
Circle K 
¦’Nippon
Association for Life 
Phoenix
Please note that these preliminary assignments are subject to change.
¦'¦P. •
Please direct any questions to the University Center Space Allocation Board 
(allocation-board+@andrew) or the Office of Student Activities (268-8705).
Funded by Your Student Activities Fee
?¦I
00
I
OOOC05OOOOOOOOQOOOOOOOOI
Another A Phi O Service!
A Phi O Airport Shuttle
To Pittsburgh International Airport
Why walk to Webster to catch the 
airport shuttle when you can be 
picked up here on CMU campus?
Stamm® IBuag
Thanksgiving Break 
Tuesday, November 21st
11:45 pm, 1:45pm, 2:45pm, 3:45pm, 4:45pm , 5:45pm, 6:45pm
Leaving from the Donner at:12pm, 1pm, 2pm, 3pm, 4pm, 5pm, 6pm, 
7 pm
Returning from the airport:
Saturday, November 25th: On the hour, 
every hour till 4pm 
Sunday, November 26th: On the hour, 
every hour till 9pm
One-Way Tickets - $9 
Round Trip Tickets - $15
Tickets Sold at the 
Student Center Info Desk 
and departure points.
A Phi O Magic Bus
Round Trip Buses to Major Cities
SAVE MONEY going home for 
Thanksgiving and Spring Breaks. 
Ride A Phi O's
smn© IB na
To: Allentown, NYC - $70Leaves CMU at 1:30 pm
Harrisburg, Philly, 
King of Prussia, 
Cherry Hill - $65
Leaves CMU at 2:30 pm
DC, Baltimore - $55Leaves CMU at 3:30 pm
Leave Tuesday, November 21th 
Return Sunday, November 26th
Tickets available at the 
Student Center Info Desk
Less than the cost of 
Greyhound!
(based on NY round trip cost)
09
1
-o^
A Phi O office #268-2116
aphio+@andrew.cmu.edu
“D. E. Shaw & Co. 
is in the vanguard 
of computerized trading."
— The Wall Street Journal
Please contact Career Services 
or send your resume with your 
GPA and SAT scores to:
D. E. Shaw & Co.
39th Floor, Tower 45 
120 West Forty-Fifth Street 
New York, NY 10036 
Attn: Strategic Growth 
e-mail: recrult@deshaw.com
Suit and Tie 
not Required
D. E. Shaw & Co. is a small 
(around 230 employees), highly 
capitalized (over a half billion 
dollars in partners' equity), very 
successful Wall Street firm 
specializing in various aspects of 
the Intersection between tech­
nology and finance. We are now 
seeking world-class talent in a 
variety of fields, and are prepared 
to compensate exceptionally 
gifted Individuals at a level 
exceeding that of the market.

---------------------------------------------------

The Tartan • Carnegie Mellon University • 13 November 1995
Intramural sports provide 
CMU students stress relief
By SUSAN WATSON
Tartan Staffivriter
Though the average CMU student leads an Exces­
sively stressful college life, the majority of students 
have found an outlet to vent their frustrations and 
anxieties as well as to socialize with their fellow 
stressed out classmates: intramural sports.
CMU intramurals offers over 40 different activi­
ties in which undergraduate and graduate students 
m participate. Activities range from football and 
iftball to chess and card games, so everyone is 
bound to find something which will quench a desire 
to get away from the books and interact with people.
The activities are divided into major, intermedi­
ate, and minor leagues, and there are also men’s, 
women’s and co-recreational leagues.
A great number of CMU students are already 
pctive members of the Intramural scene. Mike 
Mastroianni, Director of Intramurals and Club Sports
I, “On average, I would say that 70 to 75 percent 
-0f the undergraduate and graduate student body 
takes part in intramurals.”
Mastroianni, who has worked here for ten years, 
said, “Intramurals are a popular activity on campus 
jecause it is such a great outlet for the academic 
Remands of the 
University. The 
school doesn’t pro­
vide many recre­
ational activities 
for students. They 
need some sort of 
outlet. Plus, we 
make it easy be­
cause we offer such 
wide range of di­
verse activities.”
Sean Keane, a se­
nior in industrial 
management and 
co-president of the Intramural Board, agrees with 
Mastroianni.
He said, “I think intramurals are a very important 
aspect of CMU life. Participating provides a good 
break from classes and homework. It also lends itself 
to providing a social atmosphere for a student. It’s a 
| way to meet other students and to let out aggression 
in a peaceful manner. You can see that the partici­
pants really enjoy it and are getting something out of 
beingthere. You cantelljust by watching them. They 
really put a lot into it.”
Mastroianni insists that CMU intramurals offer 
something for everyone, and if it doesn’t, the organi­
zation is more than willing to create a new activity for 
you. He said, “We are very accommodating. We are 
always taking new ideas from students and are very 
willing to add things for them.”
CMU intramurals are definitely popular among 
the many organizations within the Greek system. 
Bruce Goldstein, a senior in industrial management, 
is the Intramural Sports chairman of his fraternity, 
Theta Xi. Goldstein feels that participating in 
intramurals brings his brothers closer together. He 
., “In any team sport you have to rely and trust 
your team members. That whole notion carries over 
into the other aspects of the house and brotherhood.” 
According to Goldstein, every brother participates 
in at least one intramural sport. He said, “It’s conve­
nient for everyone to be active because the program 
not very time consuming at all. There’s no practice 
andno tryouts. Basically, it’s just a bunch of us trying 
to have fun.”
Andrew McDermott/Tartan Photo Editor 
Students brave the mud and cold to play IM soccer.
However, Kirke Framke, a fourth year architect, 
feels CMU intramurals offers more than merely a 
good time. Framke participates in many activities 
ranging from floor hockey to water polo, but the 
triathlon competition is by far his favorite.
He has recently won the 1995 CMU Triathlon 
competition as well as breakingthe previous record 
with a time of49:40. The race consists of a 500 yard 
swim, four laps of Schenley Circuit Road on a 
bicycle, and finally a 3.1 mile run.
Framke encourages students to get involved with 
the race. He said, “It’s a great opportunity for 
people to get into the sport because it’s relatively 
short, and it’s fun.”
Framke has been competing in the national 
amateur circuit since 1991 and has participated in 
three national championships. He is currently 
ranked in the top 25 and is training to go profes­
sional. When he isn’t training, he swims with Team 
Pittsburgh at University of Pittsburgh, runs as a 
member of the Cross Country team, and of course, 
participates in CMU intramural sports.
Though he enjoys playing a number of 
intramurals, his top three picks are football, 
waterpolo, and surprisingly enough, triathlon. He 
said, “I played football freshman year on the actual 
team, and I still like to 
play. This is a great 
opportunity to still 
play. Ireally enjoy play­
ing water sports, too, 
and I participate in 
triathlon basically be­
cause I’m trying to 
make it my life’s ca­
reer. I like it more than 
anything else.”
The reasons students 
turn to intramurals are 
vast and diversified. 
While some participate 
for physical fitness purposes, others get involved to 
become a part of the CMU social scene.
Jeff Ku, a senior ECE and IS major, thinks that 
CMU intramurals have a profound effect on the 
way in which he organizes his schedule. He said, “I 
believe in the ‘work hard, play hard’ lifestyle. 
While IM sports are conducive to that mentality, it 
most definitely eliminates stress as well. CMU is 
such an academically demanding school to find a 
balance in. Intramurals provide the frame that I 
need for my life.... IM sports balance my life.” 
Though IM sports are popular among the Greek 
system and other campus organizations, 
Mastroianni insists that all students are encour­
aged to participate. He said, “During the last four 
and five years, we’ve seen an increase in indepen­
dent teams. Dorms and groups of students are 
getting strong representation. There are no sepa­
rate leagues. The Greek system and other groups 
compete together. You get a better mix of the 
population that way.”
This year, it has been a goal of the Intramural 
Board to boost female participation in IM sports.
“This past year, we have made a great effort to 
increase female participation in the activities,” 
said Keane. “We did this by creating an all team 
sport points award in the men’s division as well as 
in the women’s division. The award is determined 
at the end of the year by how many points a team 
gets by its number of victories. By doing this, there 
has been an evident growth in female participation 
as well as a higher level of competition.”
Shorthanded hockey 
squad loses to Indiana
Josh Freeman/Tartan Photographer 
CMU cross the red line with Robert Morris 
in hot pusuit in Saturday's matchup. 
HOCKEY, from page 12
fense on slow changes and bom­
barding the net. Starting goalie,
Jon Kliegman was shelled until 
the defensive changed back to 
the original set and got the puck 
out of the CMU zone. This 
worked to perfection, with 
Maddalena’s scoring on feed from 
Kliegman, making the game’s 
final score 6-4.
The Tartans were coming off 
of a sati sfying win over New York 
University when they stepped 
onto the ice at Indiana. There 
were a few changes to the roster, 
however. Graduate student 
winger Dan Kodesh was out with 
illness and sophomore 
defenseman Paul Voulgaris 
would miss the weekend games.
But the team was pleased to add 
to its defense sophomore Bryan 
Campo, who had been out with a 
back injury. When the team ar­
rived in Indiana, they received a 
message from the opposing 
team’s coach: junior winger An­
thony Paul, Ivanovic, and 
Kliegman had been in a car 
wreck, were all right, but 
wouldn’t make the game. Things 
didn’t get better when they 
learned Coach Fred Maddalena’s 
plane had been delayed and he 
wouldn’t be behind the bench 
until the third period.
Last season, the CMU 
squad lost 8-7 to IUP in 
the second round of the 
play-offs. The Tartans ex­
pected a tough matchup 
— IUP was a big team, 
with a packed defensive 
line, skating on their 
home ice with their hun- 
dred-odd fans going wild.
Carnegie Mellon con­
verted first halfway 
through the first period 
on a feed from Adukaitis 
and Oxnard, to freshman 
winger Dino Sanchez 
who popped it into the 
net making the score 1-0 
in favor of the Tartans. Pressure 
in front ofthe IUP net was strong, 
but for some reason CMU had a 
difficult time putting the puck 
past their goaltender. Sophomore 
Derek Jander appeared very 
alert in goal and ended up saving 
all eleven shots that period, 
which ended with the Tartans 
leading 1-0.
The second started to show the 
strains of the team as the 
Tartan’s were given several 
power play opportunities (five 
over a two-period span) and could 
not capitalize on any of them. 
Player/coach Tom Sullivan and 
Adukaitis agreed, “We really 
need to work on the breakouts 
and the power play.”
Buck plowed through IUP’s 
front lines again, only to be de­
nied at the goal, with nobody at 
point to pick up his rebounds. “I 
just couldn’t keep the puck on 
my stick long enough,” said Buck. 
Indiana ended up skating all over 
the Tartans and scoring three 
unanswered goals in the second, 
adding two more on in the third. 
Jander ended up having 27 saves 
on the game, but the Tartans 
outshot their opponents with 33 
shots on.
The team was visibly tired, 
with first line defensemen play-
ing virtually every other shift
and the lack of depth really 
showed. Team standouts, 
freshman Keith Garrett arid 
senior winger Sean Odell, were 
obviously pleased by their own 
performance. Garrett had sev­
eral key hits to hold off the 
IUP offensive line and Odell 
skated through massive 
checks to control the puck arid 
.pass off to his teammates. 
Garrett’s advice on the Tar­
tans style of play was, “We 
need to work more on keeping 
short clean passes, and dump­
ing the puck into the zone in­
stead of trying to carry it.” 
After the buzzer sounded the 
end of the third with a 5-1 
final score in favor of IUP, the 
Tartans straggled home to 
Pittsburgh to face Robert 
Morris at Neville Saturday 
night. Coach Maddalena,. in 
viewing the score sheet at the 
end of the game, ran his finger 
along the rash of unanswered 
goals by IUP and said, “I hope 
that they [IUP] don’t get 
swelled heads, because we’re 
missing half of the team.” • 
Fitzgerald said, “Hopefully 
we will get another chance to 
play them in the play-offs with 
a full squad. I think the result 
will be different.”
The Tartans seem to be on a 
roll to a another playoff berth, 
but it won’t be easy and the 
play has to be more consis­
tent. “We can not afford to 
take a single step backward,” 
warned freshman center Steve 
Leonhardt. CMU will be play­
ing defending league champi­
ons University of Pittsburgh 
on Saturday at Neville. There 
will be a bus that evening, 
sponsored by SDC and Stu­
dent Activities, for fans to take 
to the final game before the 
winter break, and the free 
skate that will follow. Skate 
rentals are available on site 
and the game is at 5:30 pm.
CMU loses to CWRU, 3-0
FOOTBALL, from page 12
Hudson’s 31-yard field goal attempt was blocked. 
The reverse call had some in the stands and the 
press box scratching their heads, but Lackner 
defended the call.
“The reverse had worked all year, and we felt 
we had it set up,” Lackner said. “Give Case credit
— their guy stayed at home.”
The Tartans had two more chances inside the 
Spartan 20 in the fourth, but Case came up big 
on both occasions. First, they stopped senior 
quarterback Keith Dickerson one yard short of a 
first down on a fourth and two play, then they
intercepted Dickerson in the end zone with just 
over a minute to play to end any Tartan hopes of 
a comeback. With the win, Case improved to 2- 
8, while CMU dropped to 7—3.
Lackner hopes Saturday’s loss doesn’t carry 
over into next season.
“The last time we ended the season on a loss 
was in 1990, when we lost in the playoffs to 
Lycoming,” he said. “I don’t know how we’ll 
handle this loss for next year, but hopefully, it 
will provide motivation for our players.”
Fifteen seniors, including 13 starters, played 
their final game for the Tartans on Saturday.
Low Student 
Faculty Fares
International destinations 
Discounted domestic fares 
AYH & Eu rail Passes
Experienced, 
friendly service.
4608 Winthrop St.
(off S. Craig in Oakland)
FORUM TRAVEL 
Mon. - Fri. 9-5 pm 
Sat. 10-1 pm Call 681-4099
Everyone Welcome
Albright United 
Methodists
^undatj17Jam
Van Pickup at 10:40am 
Forbes Bus Stop
needexcuse to
get of F campus* ^
CARO AND GET
15%_ ¦ ~ O
W­­ ocuSoy ­ocErg
Hang out with your old friends. 
Take your laundry home, and 
eat some real food. Whatever 
the reason, when you get a 
Student Advantage Card, you can 
get away on Amtrak® for 15 # 
less. You won’t be crammed into 
a car with five other people.
Or stuck on a bus out in the
middle of nowhere. And your 
discount is good for travel on 
almost every Amtrak train.
To get a Student Advantage 
Card call 1-800-96Hangoaut 
And to make reservations, 
call your travel agent or 
Amtrak at 1-800HwihHoayrt 
How stop making excuses.AMTRAK
* Fifteen percent discount good on oil rail foies except peok hour weekday Metioliner19Service, muftHide and government fores. On Auto Trainr fifteen percent discount is good on outo fore only. Other restrictions may apply.

---------------------------------------------------

SPORTS
Volume 90, Issue 10The Tartan, Carnegie Mellon University, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania13 November 1995
Case crushes Tartans’ playoff hopes
By DARREN CHIAPPETTA
Tartan Senior Staffwriter
it wasn’t supposed to end this way. 
With a conference title, a possible spot in 
the NCAA playoffs and the Academic Bowl 
trophy on the line, Carnegie Mellon was 
supposed to come out and send Case West­
ern Reserve home with its tail between its 
legs. Just like it had the last six years. It 
would be easy, CMU thought.
The Spartans had other ideas.
In what might be the biggest upset in 
Carnegie Mellon’s long football history, 
Case Western came into Gesling Stadium 
and beat the Tartans, 3-0. Among the 
things that were lost on Saturday: any 
hope for reaching the national playoffs, 
an outright UAA championship (for the 
second straight year, the Tartans will
share the crown with Washington Uni­
versity of Missouri), and the Division III 
record for most consecutive games with­
out being shut out.
CMU was last held scoreless in a 1972 
contest against Franklin & Marshall, 224 
games ago. Tartan players and coaches 
were stunned by the loss.
“I think this was the worst loss I’ve ever 
been a part of,” said junior halfback Eric 
Limegrover.
“We just didn’t play very good football 
today,” added head coach Rich Lackner.
As in all the Tartan losses this season, 
mistakes played a crucial part in 
Saturday’s game. The Murphy’s Law list 
included a blocked CMU punt, the first in 
12 years; a blocked field goal; five CMU 
personal foul or unsportsmanlike Con­
duct penalties, including two roughing-
Anarew mcuermott/ lartan (Jnoio tanor 
Case Western Reserve University tallied the only points of the game with this field goal.
the-kicker calls; and four turnovers. The 
Tartans also failed to score on six trips 
inside the Case 30-yard line.
Things were so bad for CMU that senior 
offensive tackle Stuart Ellis had to leave 
the game when he sprained his ankle 
running onto the field after a change of 
possession.
“I don’t know if it was that Case played 
well or if it was the way we played,” 
Lackner said. “We had every reason to 
win the football game, and we didn’t get 
done what we had to get done.”
Problems started on the opening Tar­
tan possession. After going three downs 
and out, junior punter Frank Triggiani’s 
kick was blocked by Ron DeAtley, giving 
the Spartans a first down at the CMU 15. 
The defense was able to hold Case to a 29- 
yard field goal by Chad Laubenthal, al­
though a touchdown pass from quarter­
back Nick Leskiewicz to Steve Rospert 
earlier in the drive had been negated by 
an offensive pass interference call.
The Tartan offense responded on the 
next drive, moving the ball from their own 
44 to inside the Case one-yard line. But on 
fourth and goal, senior quarterback Dave 
Soltysik was stopped on a quarterback 
sneak, and the Spartans took over on 
downs.
Saturday’s wet, windy weather made it 
difficult for both teams to go to the air, but 
it particularly hampered the Tartans. 
After a career performance last week 
against Juniata,
Soltysik was limited to just 13 pass 
attempts before leaving the game in the 
fourth quarter with an injured right 
thumb. Tartan quarterbacks threw only 
14 times Saturday.
“If the weather had been better, we 
would have been able to open it up more,
Steve Hsu/Tartan Photographer 
The heavy rain and winds hampered the 
Tartans’ air attack with senior quarterback 
Dave Soltysik attempting only 13 passes.
and we would have had a better chance to 
win,” said sophomore wide receiver Rick 
Steiner.
Despite all their problems., CMU was 
still in position to win in the game’s late 
stages. The defense, which played tre­
mendously all season, held the Spartans 
to just 129 yards of total offense and gave 
the ball to the offense in good field posi­
tion much of the second half.
Early in the fourth quarter, the Tar­
tans moved inside the Case five-yard line. 
On a third-and-two, sophomore Ricco 
Parrish was dropped for a 10-yard loss on 
a reverse, and junior kicker Doug 
Please see FOOTBALL, page 11
Andrew McDermott/Tartan Photo Editor 
Rain, mud, wind, and the opposing team could not stop CMU from 
charging down field in Saturday’s championship game.
Rugby club wins 
Division II title
By RICK SIMMONS 
& RICK RIKOSKI
¦ Tartan Staffwriters
After a brief warmup, the CMU 
Rugby team took to the field 
against Ohio Northern Univer­
sity in the Division II Midwest 
Rugby Championship.
They walked away very muddy 
and cold, but more importantly, 
they came away victorious. For 
the second year in a row, Carnegie 
Mellon claimed this champion­
ship, as they defeated Ohio North­
ern, 29-10.
When the game started, it was 
warm, with an occasional drizzle
coming down. The stream adjoin­
ing Frick Park was almost bone 
dry, except for a slight trickle. 
The field was soft, and slightly 
slippery, which was clearly to the 
advantage of the smaller, faster 
Ohio team.
Carnegie Mellon knew going 
into the game that it would take 
some strategic defense to contain 
the speedy Ohio Northern 
wingers.
“We decided to pinch their 
wingers into the middle of the 
field with our wingers,” said Chris 
Winston, club secretary. “We con­
tained their back line, and we 
Please see RUGBY, page 9
Hockey Club slashes 
Robert Morris, 6-4
By JESSICA STRELITZ
Tartan Staffwriter
This past weekend was an­
other doubleheader for the 
Tartan hockey squad as they 
faced Indiana University of 
Pennsylvania on Friday night 
at Indiana, and faced off 
against Robert Morris College 
on Saturday at home in Neville 
Ice Arena. The Tartans, 4-2 
overall and 2-0 in their divi­
sion, were looking to better 
their record against IUP, 
whom they had been 1-2 
against in the past three years, 
and to beat Robert Morris 
College, whom they had never 
faced, to keep their divisional 
record perfect at 3-0.
CMU was in full force Satur­
day when they entered Neville 
in the South Side. Robert Morris 
College, a new addition to the 
league, would not prove to be 
an obstacle in CMU’s path to 
win their division.
The Tartans scored early and 
often, winning the game 6-4. 
Sophomore center Scott 
Fitzgerald had the first goal to 
successfully test the strength 
of the RMC goaltender. Fresh­
man Andy Oxnard soon followed 
his lead on a feed from assis­
tant captain, Chris Adukaitis 
on the power play.
Junior winger James Buck 
continued the scoring drive on 
a pass from Captain Roger 
Maddalena, putting CMU
ahead 3-0 by the end of the first 
period.
Halfway through the second, 
Adukaitis carried the puck into 
the zone and with the assist from 
Oxnard, making the score 4—0. 
After winger Relja Ivanovich 
scored another goal, his third in 
three games played, the defense 
started to change lines to let 
their overworked starters rest. 
The pen alties had been very low 
throughout the game, with both 
teams playing relatively clean 
hockey, so the team thought that 
they could relax a bit.
The Tartans then saw Robert 
Morris skate and shoot three 
unanswered goals in the third, 
crashing through the new de- 
Please see HOCKEY, page 11
Josh Freeman/Tartan Photographer
The Tartans swarm the net in search of another goal against Robert Morris College last Saturday.
Swim team pleased with early season performances
By SUDHIR REDDY
Tartan Staffwriter
After nearly two months of intense prac­
tice, the men’s and women’s swim teams 
swam their second and third meets of the 
season. On Saturday, the teams traveled 
to Grove City and competed against Grove 
City College and John Carrol University.
The women’s team lost both meets, but 
swam strongly against the opposition. 
According to team co-captain junior Chris­
tina Hagopian, “There are only eleven 
women on the team, which makes it really 
hard to compete against schools [that have] 
20, 22 swimmers.”
Another loss on Friday to Indiana Uni­
versity at Pennsylvania can also be attrib­
uted to the fact that the team just didn’t 
have enough swimmers.
Hagopian said although the team may
not have a large quantity of players, 
there is a lot of quality. The team ben­
efited from a strong freshman class with 
swimmers like Jennifer Skuly and 
Michelle Kondo. Older swimmers such 
as co-captain senior Rebecca Fruehan 
also offer strong leadership and point 
the team in the right direction.
Despite the losses, Hagopian said the 
team was right where it was supposed 
to be. She said the team has a lot of 
speed and is competitive dur­
ing their races, and the r 
strength of the team (fsy 
comes from its dedication \\f" 
and unity. Overall races 
in both meets were very competitive and 
close. Hagopian said the team was look­
ing forward to its annual intensive train­
ing period in Fort Lauderdale during 
the winter break.
The men’s team made impressive per­
formances in both meets and seems pre­
pared for an excellent season. The team 
came in a close sec­
ond to Grove
Amit Kar/
Business Manager
Citylosing
,v Ar_
on the final 
400 free relay. The final score was Grove 
City with 106 points and CMU with 96 
points.
Although the loss was somewhat disap­
pointing, especially coming from rival 
Grove City, there were many positive 
outcomes from the meet. The team had
good performances from its swimmers and 
is confident for success throughout the 
rest of the season.
On Friday, the team won a close meet 
with Indiana University of Pennsylvania. 
Again the winning score came on the final 
relay of the meet. The final score was CMU 
102, IUP 99.
Senior swimmer Geoff Waller said teams 
from CMU get better each year, and added 
that this was the best team he has 
ever been on. Waller also said the 
improvement of the team can be 
attributed to the excellent recruit- 
Jim Cutrone.
“The team chemistry is really 
good,” said Waller. “All of the players are 
very important and they give us a lot of 
depth. Without them, we wouldn’t have 
been able to get a lot of points to win 
meets.”
Women’s 
CC wins 
regionals
By PAUL BOOTHE
Tartan Sports Co-Editor
This past Saturday, both the 
men’s and women’s cross coun­
try teams traveled to Dickinson 
College to take part in the NCAA 
Regionals. The women’s excep­
tional showing earned them the 
Mideast Regional title and a trip 
to the NCAA Nationals this com­
ing Saturday. The men’s team 
was not as pleased with its per­
formance, finishing eighth in the 
meet.
Women’s coach Dario Donatelli 
said, “This will be our first trip to 
Nationals as a team.” The 
women’s team ran in a very tight 
pack, with only 15 seconds pass­
ing between the first- and fourth- 
place finishes. Senior Melissa 
Baustert finished sixth overall 
in 19:05. Junior Becky Buchheit 
placed 10th with a time of 19:15, 
The team’s top freshmen then 
rounded out the top five. 
Maureen McGranaghan 
13th with 19:19, with Melissa 
Lott finishing a second later in 
14th place, and Margaret Pow­
ers came in 32ndin 19:50. Senior 
Sangita Jinwala placed 98th, 
overall with a time of 21:31.
Donatelli was very proud ofhis 
squad, who beat second- 
Moravian College by 19 points. 
“They really ran like a team. 
They ran together, when a run­
ner [started hurting] they gave 
encouragement, they helped each 
other,” he said, “We didn’t have 
it won until the last half mile. In 
that last part, they passed one to 
five runners each.”
Donatelli also said, “The team’s 
gotten better and better.... We 
had been beaten earlier in the 
season by Moravian and [third 
place team] Trenton State, and 
[Saturday] we beat them both 
really bad. The team never gave 
up. They said it was a new meet 
and a new race.”
Lott agreed, “We ran well. No­
body had a bad race. Everybody 
put forth a lot of effort for this 
one, and overcame a lot of nerves. 
Comparatively to other teams, 
coaching was a big part. A lot of 
the other teams that beat us ear­
lier in the season kind of fell 
apart towards the end of the sea­
son. Because of the coaching wej 
got from [Coach Donatelli], we 
were able to hang in there.” 
The women’s team is having 
an excellent year. Last month, 
the Tartans claimed the UAA 
cross country championship and 
Donatelli was voted UAA Coach 
of the Year.
The men’s squad came in 
eighth place out of the 48 teams 
participating. Men’s team coach 
Gary Meckley said, “I think a lot 
of teams would’ve liked to have 
finished where we did, but I think 
we could’ve done better.” Meckles 
also said that no one on the team 
was very satisfied with their per­
formance because they thought 
they could have finished in the 
top five.
Junior Seb Ziesler led the Tar­
tans, finishing 29th overall- He 
was closely followed by sopho* 
more Brian Ingram who p 
33rd. Freshman Joshua Donner 
came in third for the team in 
54th place, and freshman Kristy 
Kriechbaum came in 56th. Jun­
ior Ron Polcawich rounded out 
the top five finishers with a 64th 
place finish. There were 
mately 250 runners in the com-, 
petition.
“This is a very young team 
They were very inexperienced lu> 
a meet like this,” Meckley said 
“Overall, the season was an out' 
standing success. Before tw 
meet we beat all of the teams it 
the division except two. They ha£ 
more experience in this type 
meet, and perhaps a little m°re 
talent.”

---------------------------------------------------

Tartan;%Vho: Mark Wi]|sjc>n . 
?VTear of grad: 1 ^95 || 
Major: EC E 
Re sir t land/ O^
Volume 90, Issue 10The Tartan, Carnegie Mellon University, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania13 November 1995
T XT TT1 T /Mraían rara mani raraLivmvj
CMU Alumni:
Who is the average CMU alum, and what is s/he doing now? How will we 
measure up when we graduate? We interviewed alumni from various majors 
and backgrounds in order to answer these questions.
[Ed. Note:All interviews on th 
page by Shannon Gibney,
Features Editor].
Mark Wilson, a 1995 
in ECE, lives and works in 
land, OR.
Wilson is an Intel employee 
eels that his degree from CMU 
prepared him well for the duties 
of his position.
Tm able to go to meetings deal­
ing with cutting-edge technology 
and understand what’s going on 
participate. There’s also no 
need to explain what or where 
CMU is; it’s universally known:” 
Wilson believes that CMU also 
provided him with social oppor­
tunities that are not as readily 
available in “the real world.”
“A structured work environ­
ment is, ‘surprise,’ not as easy to 
be sociable as a structured uni­
versity environment. Plus, it’s 
hard to find interesting non-en­
gineers. Most of my friends at 
3MU were from other colleges 
because I didn’t want to spend all 
my time with one kind of person.” 
One of Wilson’s main concerns 
about the direction and focus of 
CMU educators is the corporate 
attitude that dominates 
adminstrators.
“I’m afraid that it’s [CMU] still 
drifting toward being a corpora- 
lon instead of a university. Stu­
dents and education shouldn’t be 
heated as variables in some sort 
j°f economic equation.”
CMU is also following the un- 
°rtunate national trend of mak- 
lng U.S. News and World Report 
^n accreditation body by letting 
pts of people in and failing out 
nose who can’t hack it.The at- 
^ttpt to increase the retention
— and make it more impor- 
’ant to have a pedigree coming 
ln> and make it less likely that
fringe players will be around 
to flourish.”
Despite this over-riding fo­
cus on status and money, Wil­
son feels that a CMU educa­
tion has a lot to offer the un­
dergraduates who come here.
“I think CMU’s prestige and 
national awareness is continu­
ing to grow. I think there’s still 
lots of little things that make it 
a much better place: IM sports, 
$1 Doherty movies, free food 
during finals. You get a lot 
more creature comforts at a 
private university. Some folks 
are also still eager to do the 
dumb, impractical stuff that 
makes it [a CMU education] 
fun: Booth, Buggy, Fence paint­
ing.”
All in all, Wilson is very glad 
that he chose to attend school 
at CMU.
“CMU... has a closer correla­
tion between its reputation and 
the actual education you re­
ceive than other schools.”
Wilson would recommend 
the Carnegie Mellon experi­
ence to his friends, family, and 
colleagues — if they are they 
right kind of people.
“CMU isn’t, and shouldn’t be 
a place to ’find yourself or take 
a $100,000 vacation courtesy 
of mommy and daddy for four 
years. Not that you shouldn’t 
learn a lot about yourself, but 
you should probably have a 
good general direction coming
“When I attended CMU I think 
tuition was about 300 dollars a 
semester, or something like that,” 
said Margaret Peake, a 79-year- 
old member of the class of 1938, 
who now lives with her husband 
in Hobe Sound, Florida.
Peake majored in social work 
while she was at CMU (or 
Carnegie Tech as it was called 
then).
“It’s terrible, but they [CMU 
administrators] did away with it 
[the social work program]. It was 
a very good course. We did [social 
sciences] course work way back 
then in ’40, ’41, and ’42.”
“While I was there I worked for 
the WCA in East Liberty, PA—I 
was involved in the teenage pro­
gram. It entailed field trips, 
dances, parties, club-like and 
group-work activities. I felt a lot 
of pride in my work. And I was 
able to get quite a few youngsters 
who hadn’t considered college to 
consider it and go.”
“They also did away with big 
team football while I was there. 
The administration felt that the 
money was better spent in build­
ing, faculty, salaries, capital 
gains, etc. But we did beat Notre 
Dame before they eliminated it.” 
Peake feels that her CMU edu­
cation has prepared her for a va­
riety of tasks, including profi­
ciency in her field.
“I never applied for a j ob I didn’t 
get and I never had one I didn’t 
like. I was always proud to say 
where I had graduated from: 
Carnegie Tech. [After graduation] 
I was a field work instructor for 
CMU for two to three years be­
fore I moved to New Jersey, where 
I was a school social worker. Some 
of the students still keep in touch 
with me.”
Peake said that such excel­
lence in work and academic expe­
riences were the most valu­
able parts of being an under­
graduate here.
“When I attended CMU, the 
best things about being there 
were the faculty, students, and 
curriculum. It was all very well- 
designed.”
“ We had to work very hard.
I can remember working until 
two or three o’clock in the morn­
ing often.”
Peake said that this 
workload was also the worst 
part of being at CMU.
Peake believes that her life 
has been enriched by the CMU 
experience — by the career 
training she received, and by 
the friends she made while she 
was here.
“I’ve had a very good profes­
sional life — I was written up 
in The Lady’s Home Journal.
... I still have nine or 10 friends 
that are still alive from CMU 
and get together in Pittsburgh. ” 
She would definitely recom­
mend that her friends and fam­
ily consider attending CMU.
“It [CMU] has maintained 
its academic level. The student 
faculty ratio is low, nine to one, 
and it’s a friendly place. I’m 
proud of the people who went 
there. Ed Mitchell [astronaut], 
Vaughn Monroe [singer and 
orchestra leader], etc.”
Peake has been married for 
54 years.
Please see SOCIAL WORK, page L2
“Anytime you’re somewhere, 
you wish you were on the other 
side. People always say that 
they’ll be so glad when they get 
out of here, but then when you 
get out you miss it,” said Mark 
Lotter, a 1993IM/GCM graduate 
who minored in design.
Lotter works at SEI (Software 
Engineering Institute) here in 
Pittsburgh, as a production de­
signer. Although he believes that 
the benefits of a CMU education 
are numerous, life in “the real 
world” is not what he expected.
“I’m making less money than I 
thought I would coming out. I 
think that’s true of everybody. 
Professionally, however, it’s 
[work experience] been amazing 
—the job skills I’ve acquired have 
been beyond anything I learned 
in school.”
Although his professional life 
is thriving, Lotter feels that the 
range and depth of social rela­
tions in a work environment do 
not approach those in a univer­
sity setting.
“Socially, there’s so many dif­
ferent kinds of people here [at 
CMU], that you have to learn to 
get along with them. Culturally, 
this place is more diverse than a 
lot of work places.”
Although Lotter misses the so­
cial variety of the University, he 
welcomes the change in his stress 
level.
“Students put a lot of pressure 
on themselves and that adds a lot 
to stress. And then when you get 
out of school some of that stress is 
lessened — it’s easier to balance 
your social life and workload.”
If there is one aspect of Lotter’s 
education that he could change, 
it would be the structure of the 
four-year program, with regards 
to the IM/GCM program. 
“Junior and senior year I really
got into my major — I was really 
enjoying it. And then I gradu­
ated. In freshman and sophomore 
year I wasn’t really sure if it [my 
major] was right for me. I just 
wish that I could have been into it 
earlier.”
However, Lotter is very satis­
fied with the overall qualityof 
education he received.
“The IM program in particular 
was very helpful. They provide 
excellent support to people in that 
college.”
In assessing the total impact of 
his education, Lotter feels that 
CMU is a good place for a certain 
fcype of person.
“If the person is outgoing and 
willing to go out of their way to 
find social opportunities and grow 
from the abundance of activities 
on this campus then I think CMU 
is the place for them. However, if 
they’re the kind of person that 
waits for opportunities to knock 
on their door, I don’t think it hap­
pens here.”
If Lotter could advise 
undergrads to do one thing dur­
ing their time here, it would be to 
take advantage of all that Pitts­
burgh has to offer.
“I never got away from campus 
as much as I should have. There’s 
a lot going on in Pittsburgh —¦; 
and not just in Squirrel Hill and 
Shadyside, but also in downtown, 
Bloomfield.”
[Please see related stories on pages 
L2 and L3].
T

---------------------------------------------------

L2The Tartan • Carnegie Mellon University • 13 November 1995
Carnegie sponsors international party
By SHARMILA 
VENKATASUBBAN
Tartan Staffwriter
Welcoming area students and fac­
ulty to the opening of its 1995 Carnegie 
International exhibition, the Carnegie 
Museum of Art held a free reception in 
the foyer and main galleries of the 
museum last Monday offering free 
food, refreshments and entertainment.
“The reception was a 
great opportunity to view 
exciting contemporary 
art,” said Rob Pietri, a jun­
ior communications design 
major. “It’s a great way for 
the Carnegie to show their 
appreciation for the value 
of education,” he added.
The 1995 Carnegie In­
ternational, which fea­
tures over 250 contempo­
rary works of art by 36 
artists from 16 different 
countries opened on Sun­
day, November 5 and will 
run through February 18,
1996.
The exhibit includes 
paintings, sculpture, film and video 
installations along with an interac­
tive exhibit by Rikrit Tiravanija that 
offers curried rice in the Museum’s 
Sculpture Court.
Dana Wooley, a recent graduate of 
Slippery Rock University and an em­
ployee of the Museum of Art explained 
to visitors the relationship of the piece 
and Tiravanija’s traveling experiences. 
“The piece signifies the way in which we 
interact through food and meals,” she 
said.
Another exhibit which fascinated 
many students was Robert Thierren’s 
(b. 1947, USA) Under the Table, an 1 lxl 8 
foot table with six chairs that stands 
nine feet high. Students were tempted 
to climb up and experience Alice in Won-
Jason Siegendorf/Tartan Photo Staff Manager 
Students and patrons gather to hear Watershed at the Carnegie.
derland firsthand, but were discouraged 
by the ubiquitous museum security.
Similarly students tried to convince 
each other that Whiteread’s Untitled, a 
series of colored resin blocks, were chairs 
of some sort ,and wanted to test out their 
theories by sitting on them, once again
to the dismay of the anxiety-ridden 
guards. “The exhibit is amazing,” said 
Christine Royal, a junior architect 
major. It’s so tempting to handle the 
work.”
Museum guests were treated to mu­
sical entertainment such as Water­
shed, a jazz, rock, and instrumental 
quintet that played in Museum of Art’s 
dining room, carrying the music 
throughout the foyer.
Students enjoyed an array of food as 
well, with tables decorated 
with various cheeses, 
fruits, breads and other de­
licious items throughout 
the evening.
Over 400 students at­
tended the event, from 
Carnegie Mellon to Slip­
pery Rock University and 
West Virginia University 
as well.
“It was well worth the 
trip. This reception is an 
excellent opportunity to 
experience contemporary 
art and it’s nice that the 
museum made it so easy,” 
said Michael Richmond of 
West Virginia University.
“We wanted to bring in as many 
students as possible,” said Wendy 
Osher, director of the Children’s Stu­
dios at the Museum of Art as we looked 
around the crowded foyer. “And judg­
ing from the looks of it, they came.”
Grad returns to CMU
o: Anne Witchner 
of Gra4î 19 76 
: English
[Ed. Note: All interviews on this page 
by Jillian Watkins, Tartan Assistant 
Features Editor].
Anne Witchner is one CMU alum who 
just couldn’t stay away. One of our own 
administrators, Witchner is the Assis­
tant Dean of Student Affairs and Direc­
tor of Student Activities. She graduated 
from CMU in 1973, and received her BA 
in English.
Witchner became the Director of Stu­
dent Activities in the Campus Activities 
Center, where she worked for 12 years 
before becoming the Assistant Dean of 
Student Affairs. She describes her work 
as exciting and beneficial. Instead of 
working with the same mundane rou­
tine on the daily basis, she “takes on new 
dimensions and tasks” everyday.
Her job now covers many aspects of 
student social events. For instance, 
Witchner organizes anH ronrHinates 
some of the biggest events on campus. 
These events include the annual Inter­
national Festival, Parents Weekend, 
Freshman Orientation, and many oth­
ers.
Witchner said, “CMU was a close-knit
community during the ’70s.” She valued 
this tight, small campus much more 
than her previous large Ohio state school 
campus which she left when transfer, 
ring to CMU as a junior.
Furthermore, as a member of the 
women’s tennis team, Witchner was 
able to travel and develop an even closer 
relationship with the school.
However, as a CMU student in the 
’70s, Witchner regrets one aspect of her 
experience.
“Going to college during the seven- 
ties was bad timing. Even though I can’t 
help when I went to college I would love 
to change the time if I could do it all over 
again,” she said.
These feelings are a result of the 
multitude of political events like the 
Vietnam War.In terms of Carnegie 
Mellon’s transition over the years 
Witchner sees the University as a per­
fect balance between the past and the 
present.
The present prestigious perception 
and national reputation that CMU is 
defined by now has changed since the 
’70s. Witchner said, “CMU has extended 
its reputation tremendously since ... it 
is on the fore-front of technology, while 
still living up to its commitment to aca­
demic excellence and research.”
“Carnegie Mellon definitely succeeds 
in preparing students for professional 
capacities. On the whole, Carnegie 
Mellon has improved because of the new 
facilities and diversity of the student 
body,” said Witchner.
Engineering grad finds success
Who: Louise Brinll&ey 
Y’far of Grad: 19 7i 
iViajor: MMS
Residencps^Vlfr Le^¿non. PA
1976 graduate, Louise 
Brinkmeyer of Mt. Lebanon, 
Pennsylvania, now works with 
Weirtin Steel Company.
Her major back then was MMS 
[metallurgy and material sci­
ences!. This major is comparable 
to the MSE major now, which is 
an abbreviation for the Material 
Science Engineering major now 
at Carnegie Mellon, 
i When asked what her feelings
are about how well Carnegie 
Mellon prepared her for the “real 
world,” she has nothing but good 
remarks.
“My life seemed to be much 
easier than what I expected it to 
be while at Carnegie Mellon,” said 
Brinkmeyer.
“In fact, as a whole, my class 
did extremely well, in terms of 
getting good jobs after college,” 
added Brinkmeyer.
Furthermore, one of the most 
important skills which 
Brinkmeyer believes CMU gradu­
ates pass on is the “good work 
ethic” which parallels CMU’s 
motto: “work hard, play hard.” 
Therefore, her experiences of 
life after grafuation definately 
lived up to her expectations. 
After graduation, Ms.
Brinkmeyer continued to pursue 
studies within the engineering 
field. She went on to receive her 
masters degree at University of 
Pittsburgh and later decided to 
travel.
After college she travelled to 
various countries like Luxem­
bourg and New Zealand, where 
she studied as a PH.D. student 
on a fellowship in 1991-1992.
“Overall, Carnegie Mellon was 
an excellent choice,” said 
Brinkmeyer.
She would certainly recom­
mend the CMU experience to 
most people.
Her memories are abundant 
and she still keeps in touch with 
many of her CMU friends. After 
all, not too long ago, she visited 
one of her old roomates.
Social worker travels worldwide
SOCIAL WORK, from page LI
“Many of the girls married 
Carnegie men. I married a Pitt 
man.”
She and her husband have 
two children.
Peake has traveled all over 
the world, due in part to the 
fact that she has a pilot’s li­
cense, in part to her adventur­
ous spirit.
“I learned to fly when I was 
45. My girlfriend and I flew 
from Palm Springs, CA to 
Tampa, FL in 1978. We carried
a set of jumpers—when we got to 
Tampa our battery was just a pile 
of dust. My husband says we were 
so stupid—we didn’t know when 
to stop. But we made it!”
“We [she and her husband] have 
been everywhere: Mexico, Gua­
temala, Canada, Egypt, Russia, 
England, Scotland, France, 
Greece, Saudi Arabia, Turkey, 
the West Indies, all the islands in 
the Caribbean.”
Although Peake is 79 years old, 
she tries to keep a youthful atti­
tude by participating in a variety
of local activities and programs.
“I only feel about 40 to tell 
the truth. I had cancer twice— 
I had a mastectomy at 27, and 
had a kidney taken out at 62 
and here I am still hopping 
around.”.
“Now I am a volunteer at the 
[local] hospital, I have been on 
the board of Planned Parent­
hood for 20 years, and am an 
active member of Hobe Sound 
Presbyterian Church. You meet 
so many different and interest­
ing people in all of these places.”
COMPLIMENTARY PASSESEXCLUSIVELY FOR AMERICAN EXPRESS' CARDMEMBERS.
W.L. GORE & ASSOCIATES, INC.
Hi'
Recognized as one of
The 100 Best Companies 
to Work for in America”
will be hosting an
INFORMATION SESSION 
WEDNESDAY, NOVEMBER 15 AT 7:00 P.M. 
Porter Hall, Room 100
Come and learn about full-time and summer 
opportunities for these majors:
Chemical Engineering 
Electrical Engineering 
Chemistry
Mechanical Engineering 
Materials Science
Gore, a manufacturer of specialty GORE-TEX® fabric, is also a worldwide 
pioneer of innovative materials and products for the industrial, medical, 
and electronic industries. Our unique culture and style of management also 
make us pioneers in motivating people. Come find out why!
1
BORE.
Creative Technologies Worldwide
*A Plume book, written by Robert Levering. Milton Moskowitz and Michael Katz
WHEN & WHERE.
November 16, 6:30pm 
Squirrel Hill Theaters
WHAT.
Cardmembers get two compli­
mentary passes to Universal 
Pictures’ blockbuster Casino. 
HOW.
Just bring the American Express 
Card or Optima® Card and your 
student ID to the location listed 
below to pick up your passes. 
NOW.
If you're not yet a Cardmember 
and would like to take part in 
our exclusive previews, it’s easy 
to apply for the Card. Just call 
1-800-942-AM EX, ext. 4114.
MORE TO COME.
Casino is one in a series of 
five major motion pictures to 
be previewed on your campus 
this year, compliments of 
American Express.
PICK UP YOUR TICKETS HERE.
^unda tuj7
November 13 - November 16
©1995 American Express Travel Related Services Company. Inc.
DE NIRO STONE
CASINO
’«mffttHk -imWim ,Rc -raws RRcc m
«6 ass» ™5 HIM DE FISI “î M SOUSE 1 llfflM HUE
fpw?
Ibi**.:
V
31J.2 aJErpI S5QQb 
-
lit FI0JT
Ü
The
American
Film
Institute
Entertainment

---------------------------------------------------

The Tartan • Carnegie Mellon University • 13 November 1995L3
NOW chapter’s history contributes to feminist victories
Cracking the myth
by Suzanne Paddock
Pittsburgh is known for things such as 
steel mills and football: all in all very 
things. Another thing Pitts- 
was known for but has since been 
is its feminism. At the height 
the activism for the Equal Rights 
in the 1970s, Pittsburgh 
27 NOW [National Organization of 
Women] chapters, while New York City 
could boast only three. The prominence 
of feminism in this area is no accident.
Kathy Wilson, a veteran member of 
NOW since the early ’70s, believes the 
very nature of Pittsburgh instills activ­
ist beliefs in its people. “One thing about 
Western Pennsylvania is that we ben­
efit from its union foundation; people in 
this area understand about taking care 
ofyourself and exercising your rights. In 
other parts of the country people under­
stand that they have rights but they are 
very intimidated about exercising them.” 
Ironically, it’s Pittsburgh’s masculine 
character “that really makes a different 
kind of woman,” she said. “The more 
desperate people are, the more in tune 
they are with the fact that they are left 
out. Those kinds of things really helped 
this area to be the hotbed of activism. 
Even conservative women in this area 
understand the issues,” she said.
The members of Pittsburgh’s NOW 
chapters have contributed many victo­
ries to the feminist movement since the 
founding of Pittsburgh’s first NOW chap­
ter, then called the Greater Pittsburgh 
Chapter, in 1968. Three of NOW’s na­
tional presidents have come from this 
area: Wilma Scott Heide, the founder of 
NOW in Pittsburgh, Molly Yard, and 
Ellie Smeal.
Heide, who was active in the Civil 
Rights Movement, heard about NOW — 
and went to its second board meet- i 
ing in Madison, Wisconsin. “She in­
sisted that they allow her to form a 
chapter in Pittsburgh. I think they 
really had no intention of having the 
chapter structure that we have now, 
it was going to be this public rela­
tions board put out of New York and
Washington but she changed it,” said ___
Phyllis Wetherby, also a veteran ¦¦ 
member of NOW.
One of NOW’s earliest endeavors at 
that time was to amend the City’s Hu­
man Relations Ordinance which origi­
nally prohibited racial discrimination in 
employment, housing, and public ac­
commodations.
Members fought to include sex dis­
crimination in the ordinance. They then 
used it as a legal weapon against the 
Pittsburgh Press, who segregated their 
want ads by gender.
They forced the Pittsburgh Press to 
change this policy which created a na­
tional precedent.
Local television stations also found 
themselves under attack by First Pitts­
burgh NOW. Instigated by Kathleen 
Bonk, Pittsburgh NOW members chal­
lenged various television stations’ li­
censes in Pittsburgh, New York and 
Washington DC. Their goal was to force
stations to do more programming by, 
for, and about women and to increase 
employment opportunities for women at 
the stations. They did this by monitor­
ing each station’s programming and 
eventually forced some Pittsburgh sta­
tions to set up advisory boards.
All of this happened around 1972 when 
Pittsburgh NOW members won one of 
their greater battles by influencing Penn-
was to start a new chapter. She started 
the South Hills chapter to separate the 
combatants.”
This resulted in a new idea which 
Evansgardner called the multi-chapter 
concept. Most cities and areas tended to 
have one chapter. However, chapters 
were founded in Pittsburgh whenever a 
group of people who wanted to run a 
chapter organized. Within ten years, 27
“The more desperate people are, the more in 
tune they are with the fact that they are left 
out. Those kinds of things really helped this 
area to be the hotbed of activism."
—Kathy Wilsonf member of NOW
sylvania to ratify the Equal Rights 
Amendment.
Just as First Pittsburgh NOW set pre­
cedents through its political action, it 
also pioneered new ground with its orga­
nization. Early on there was a split in 
the organization over censorship.
Dr. Jo Ann Evansgardner, another 
veteran NOW member, said, “We sold 
stuff at the 1970 August 26th meeting 
and one of the things we sold was a 
really wonderful poster, it had a woman 
with a broken broom and it said some­
thing like Tuck House Work.’ And one of 
our members was just scandalized by 
that, and it did open us up to criticism. 
So this split happened and the people 
who were real unhappy about the con­
trol over the press and about our doing 
things that got us criticized were in the 
South Hills and Ellie’s [Smeal] solution
chapters formed in and around Pitts­
burgh. The multi-chapter concept 
stemmed from the need for efficiency 
and the need to define a new, feminist 
power structure.
Kathy Wilson describes Pittsburgh’s 
NOW chapters’ struggle to organize in a 
way that was suitable for a feminist 
organization. “I guess we don’t have any 
real models when it comes to different 
ways of organizing and different phi­
losophies about what connotes a leader. 
And we don’t have very many defini­
tions of what power is, and as we try to 
be a feminist organization it is a real 
challenge to achieve feminist power as 
opposed to power from the standpoint of 
dominance and submission. I think that 
multiple chapters challenge dominance 
and submission because it gives a lot of 
people a lot of opportunities to exercise
leadership,” she said.
Multiple chapters allowed more people I 
to become active and they provided more i 
people with the opportunity to become ! 
leaders. With a variety of chapters to; 
choose from, people could pick the one j 
that best suited their interests.
“It’s an eye-opener to visit each chap- ¦ 
ter because they all have their own per-! 
sonality. Sc urrel Hill NOW was more,.; 
for want of a word, yuppieish. And South;; 
Hills was very much the bedroom com-' 
munity, ‘housewifey.’ Our chapter [East;! 
End NOW] has a larger number of women:! 
of color. First Pittsburgh was like the • 
nucleus, a lot of more established women : 
were active in First Pittsburgh. The is-: 
sues and the approach to the issues were ; 
very much reflective of the membership 
and the style of organizing,” Wilson said. ’
The multi-chapter concept created a 
diversity among NOW members. This : 
diversity of chapters in Pittsburgh dis­
pels the myth that NOW has only beeni 
composed of white, middle-class house-: 
wives. Membership of the various Pitts- ¦; 
burgh chapters shows that this stereo- 
type is not indicative of all members.
During the high time of the ’70s and 
the ERA, many people from various back­
grounds joined together under NOW to » 
fight for a common cause. Though chap­
ters held differing opinions they still 
organized together for such actions as 
the July 9,1978 march in Washington 
DC for the extension of the deadline for ;i 
the ratification of the ERA. Each Pitts-,! 
burgh NOW chapter provided and con-;: 
tinues to provide a diverse voice and a^ 
personality thought to be absent in 
today’s NOW.
Suzanne Paddock is a senior Englisfi 
major.
Columnist looks inside Scotch ‘N Soda’s current productions
In the Spotlight
by Dan Rosenberg
When the curtain rises Friday 
evening for the debut of Double 
Shot, Scotch ‘N’ Soda’s latest pro­
duction, the audience will be 
treated to two one-act plays. 
Mona Lisa, which was written by 
sophomore creative writing ma­
jor Alex Lewin, is a fictitious ac­
count of Leonardo daVinci’s rela­
tionship with Isabella del 
Giocondo, the subject of the 
painter’s most famous work.
It shares the bill with Israel 
Horovitz’s Line, which, accord­
ing to stage manager Hannah 
Rohlfs, a freshman in MCS, is an 
“absurdist comedy about being 
first,” full of choreographed fight
nd dance scenes.
However, what the audience 
will not see is how the production 
came together, a process that 
began with the proposals of the 
scripts one month ago and will 
end when the curtain rises.
Line director Lisa Kouvolo 
worked on Horovitz’s play as an 
undergraduate at Edinboro Uni­
versity and decided she wished to 
bring the play to CMU, where she 
is currently a graduate student 
in the Heinz school.
After the Scotch ‘N’ Soda Board 
approved not only the script but 
also Kouvolo as director, she 
asked Rohlfs to be her stage man­
ager.
Hannah is my right-hand man, 
so to speak,” said Kouvolo, since 
the stage manager and director 
work so closely together. In fact, 
they are the only non-actors re­
quired to attend rehearsals regu­larly.
As director, Kouvolo oversees 
all the creative aspects of the 
Production, such as approving the 
sets and the costumes, but her 
major responsibility is working 
with the actors.
The stage manager, mean­
while, notifies the cast of re­
hearsal times, finds a location in 
which to rehearse, keeps block- 
Jng notes, and adds sound and 
light cues to the script.
Kouvolo and Rohlfs, as well as 
their Mona counterparts Amy 
Poettinger, a sophomore in ar­
chitecture, and Sameer Karim, a 
sophomore inIM, admit that their 
roles are challenging, but all pro­
fess a deep affection for the the­
ater.
Poettinger described her task 
as a “wonderful experience,” while 
Rohlfs statedthatthe work “gives 
you a rush.”
The remainder of the technical 
crew spends many hours in the 
“Dungeon” (in the basement of 
the Margaret Morrison Building), 
where the sets are built.
Technical director Sarah 
Goldman, a freshman in CIT, is 
responsible for putting together 
all the backstage aspects of the 
show, which include set design, 
set building, lights, sound, cos­
tumes, and building an audience 
rise in the Drill Deck.
“The work is time-consuming, 
but I wouldn’t do it if I wasn’t 
having fun,” said Goldman.
Assistant technical director
to Scotch ‘N’ Soda because she 
loves theater.
Jamie Zeigler, a freshman LCS 
and french major, is the produc­
tion liaison, who serves as a link 
between the directors and the 
Board and is also responsible for 
managing the funds that Scotch 
’N Soda budgeted îovDouble Shot. 
In addition, she is responsible for 
recruiting house managers as 
well as individuals to sleep in the 
drill deck to provide round-the- 
clock security for the set.
Furthermore, Zeigler serves as 
a mediator, facilitating any prob­
lems that may arise among the 
cast, the crew, and the Board. 
Although she finds the job occa­
sionally overwhelming, she said, 
“I feel good about what I have 
accomplished, and would like to 
produce again. [Being production 
liaison] is based on organizational 
skills and the ability to commu­
nicate. It also involves leader­
ship skills I have not previously 
exercised. I really enjoy it.”
Technical coordinator Lou
Nace, a junior in professional 
writing and performance studies 
and Erik Gaghan, a sophomore 
creative writing major, also play 
important roles in the produc­
tion. Nace said, “I can’t draw, so 
I do half of the work on the com­
puter.”
In addition to designing post­
ers and teasers, Nace is also mak- 
ingthe tickets and the programs. 
She lights up at the mention of 
Scotch ‘N’ Soda and said, “[The 
organization is] the most impor­
tant thing in my life”.
Gaghan, meanwhile, serves as 
the artist. In addition to creat­
ing posters, he makes sure they 
are displayed all over campus. 
However, their biggest publicity 
stunt is a duct-tape line (sched­
uled to be completed this week) 
along the sidewalk from Forbes 
Avenue to Frew Street that will 
feature random quotes from the 
shows’ scripts.
Scotch ‘N’ Soda President 
Lawenda (Wendy) Jones, a se-
nior creative writing and social 
history major, said, “The cast and 
crew of Double Shot are guided 
by the magic of stage.”
When the curtain rises on Fri­
day evening, what lies before the 
audience is a product not only of 
that magic but also the dedica­
tion of “a great bunch of people 
with a love for the theater.”
Double Shot will be shown in* 
the Student Center Drill Deck at 
9pm on Friday and Saturday and
4 pm on Saturday and Sunday. 
Cost is $2 with a student ID. For 
more information, contact the 
Scotch TV Soda office at x8-3522) ¦
Dan Rosenberg is a freshman-' 
in the University Choice Program.
HOUSING
Woman wants to share home with 
graduate student or working woman 
in Squirrel Hill. Private room, bath, 
garage space. Car necessary. Very 
low rent in exchange for minor 
services. Use of house. 521-5643.
Free Jan though April! Vacation in 
Florida on the beach. All expenses 
paid + salary. Call for details. 521- 
5643.
All photos by Jim Snyder/Tartan Darkroom Manager 
Jeremy Lewitt and David Hirschfield rehearse Scotch 'N Soda's 
upcoming production of Line.
Darren Mauro, a sophmore in 
CS, shares Goldman’s affection 
for both backstage work and 
Scotch ‘N’ Soda. In addition to his 
aforementioned role, Mauro is 
also helping with the lighting for 
Double Shot. Although he takes 
on a lot of responsibility, he said, 
“I wouldn’t put this much time 
into something I didn’t enjoy.” 
Costume designers Holly 
Gabrielson, a freshman in H&SS, 
and Jennifer Olsen, a junior CivE, 
are just as busy as their co-work- 
ers, as they not only create the 
costumes, but also make them. 
Gabrielson, who is responsible 
for Mona’s period pieces said, “I 
like the challenge.” She stated 
that she dedicates so much time
Bojarski, a junior CivE major, 
recruits individuals to fill each 
technical position. If he cannot 
find someone to do a particular 
task, Bojarski assumes the role. 
He is also serving as the director 
of props for Double Shot, whereby 
he obtains a list of needed props 
and then borrows, builds, or pur­
chases them. Bojarski, who is also 
serving as lighting designer with 
Mauro, describes his role as tech­
nical coordinator as “picking up 
the loose ends.” He said, “I’m bet­
ter behind the scenes, due in part 
to my experience as a mechanic 
and construction worker.” 
Although they are not consid­
ered members of the technical 
crew, publicity directors Robyn
Excellent extra income now. 
Envelope stuffing for $600 - $800 
every week. Free details: SASE to 
International lnc.,1375 Coney Island 
Ave., Brooklyn, New York, 11230.
Wanted! Individuals, student 
organizations to promote Spring 
Break. Earn money and free trips. Call 
Inter-Campus Programs, at (800) 327- 
601 3 or http://www.icpt.com.
Bodies, Box 241, 4902 Forbes Avenue, 
Pittsburgh, PA 15213-3799.
A group of artists and academics 
gathering to celebrate beauty and arts. 
Requires attractive men and women to 
welcome and serve refreshments to 
guests. You will wear underwear only. 
Appreciation of art a must. No sex. 
Please send photo and qualifications to: 
Bodies, Box 241, 4902 Forbes Ave., 
Pittsburgh, PA 1521 3-3799.
RESUME SERVICES
Finishing Touches —Complete word 
processing services: Transcription, 
reports, term papers, thesis, resumes - 
quick, convenient, professional. For 
more information call Terri at 242- 
7628.
TRAVEL
Spring Break 1996. Travel Free!! 
jamaica, Cancún, Bahamas, Panama 
City, Daytona, Padre. Great low 
prices. Free trip on only 15 sales. Call\ 
for a free information packet! Sun 
Splash Tours. 1-800-426-7710.
Spring Break '96 — Sell trips, earn 
cash & go free!! Student Travel ;
Services is now hiring campus 
representatives. Cancún from $399, 1
Jamaica from $439, Florida from $99. 
Call 1-800-648-4849.
SERVICES
DV-
Misc
Female performer needed. Artist 
needs assistance in an installation. 
Will be touched, but not seen. Three 
hour performance. For info, contact:
International Students-Visitors.
1 Greencard Program by U.S. 
Immigration. Legal Services. Tel (818) 
772-7168. #20231 Stagg St., Canoga 
Park, CA, 91306.
Money for College! Hundreds of 
grants available to all students. 
Immediate qualifications. Call 1-800- 
270-2744.
Classified Rates
1-20 words.............$8.00/wk
21-50 words...........$10.00/wk
51-100 words......$13.00/wk
MAIL TO:
The Tartan, Boxl 7 
Carnegie Mellon University 
Pittsburgh, PA 15213-3890
•Classifieds must be paid in cash or 
check before first run date.
•On-campus departments and 
organizations may pay by journal 
transfer.
•Due by 5 pm the Thursday before 
publication.
THE TARTAN 
268-2111

---------------------------------------------------

i hWHGES ,Wh IWH- irsBEEN SINCE I LAST UDOKED AT THE CUX.K. MM BE ^ITS BEEN AN HOUR. ^
WELL, ÂCTUMU ITS PRßBABLY BEEN ONLM 40 MMUTES. IU GUESS HALF *N HOUR _^TOBE SAFE. ^^
20 SECONDS If?ITS 60\NG \TO BE A ] /----\VER< BAD f CALVIN, A DM. y I SIT UP. 1
jiMz1
"X
j'rPsIÈÉ^fcâr'
.—wf)M kTO (kTO“f” fLO”fBf j’T)fnqD T:( )T\fxT\) (kA\)“ oHG A”/fUg
VftW Do TV CMAERAS ZOOM \N SO CLOSE TO PEOPLE'S FACES THKV VOU CANT EVEtf SEE THE\R ENT\RE HEWS? DO THE* THINK WE CAUT REKD TUE PERS»VS EXPRESS\ON TOM V£ÇE THW TWO INCHESAwwiy,
WHAT A V\OLAT\ON OF PEKom. SPfCE.' WHAT A SHWAEVSSS \UTRMS\OM.' WHM A HEARTLESS ASSAULT Pc ,iccnI DlGN\TY /
I I
rM IN A VERY CRABBY 
WOOD, SO EVERYBODY 
JUST LEAVE ME 
ALONE.' I HATC 
ENOTOHE-'.' 
¿fe.
HOBOD1 RECOGN\ZES MY HINTS TC> SMOTHER ME WITH APPECT\OU.
NKHW/ ™s swm 
uWruoS Fi6HEG 
BL OT()O0gM
I f%
rhi '
LOOK AT THIS/ \M TOAST IS CHARRED TO A BLACK CINDER/ I CANT EAT THIS/ IT'S RUINED/ 
RUMFD//
SO STICK IN ANOTHER ) P\ECE OF BREAD AND WATCH \T THIS TIME.
ARE YCN SUGGESTING THAT THIS APPLIANCE DlDNT AGGRAVATE ME WITH MALICE AFORETHOUGHT ?/
Q-Ia®
h
w
C iBlwcncnM ft Ornn* Pmi Sroe*»
AFTER ML, W CORRESPONDENCE WILL BE THE BAS'C RESOURCE MATER\AL FOR HISTORIANS TO RECONSTRUCT MV LIFE ¦ Wi WRITING WILL PRNIDE COUNTLESS FASClNMVNG INS\GHTS FOR BIOGRAPHERS.
IF ITS THE SAME DREAM,IT MUST HEM SOMETHING. 
\
I THINK \T MEANS \THE FALL SEASON FLOPPED AND MH SJBCoNSOOUS / WENT \NTO RERUNS. ~^L
ifSL-
/W. SPEAKER, THERE HAS BEEN A REMARKABLE CONSENSUS BUILT UP OVER THE LAST 20 YEARS ON TUB SU&JECT \OF THE ENVt A RONMENT.YOU IGNORE IT AT YOUR PERIL.
YOU AN P YOUR ACOLYTES ARE CLEARLY BREAKING FAITH WITH THEAMERJ- p CAN PEOPLE-.
...AS ARE THE MAJOR CORPORATE-POLLUTERS YOU ARE CHAMPIONING ¿UfTH THESE DREADF/J/.
WTH& HECK, M°?£ FEEL. NO NO'SHAME, ! «g*erma*
v SWV
DILBERT ® by Scott Adams
USE THE LITTLE PEN TO 
tOPITE KSESSAGES ON 
MY STOMACH. I'LL 
USE 5TATE-0F-THE-RKT 
TECHNOLOGY TO
INTERPRET YOUR 
HANDWRITING.
WEAVE... ME.. 
A...CONE... 
Y00... CUPID... 
BAT...
IT'5 AN ISO 9000 
REQUIREMENT. EVERY­
THING MUST BE CLEARLY 
LABELED. THERE CAN 
BE NO EXCEPTIONS.
THE PROTECT STATUS 
IS "YELLOW LIGHT."
IN USER TESTS WE FOUND 
THAT THE PRODUCT LOCKS 
UP EVERY TWELVE SECONDS. 
THE INTERFACE IS INCOM­
PREHENSIBLE AND THE 
MANUAL IS PURL FICTION.
fl THINKSHIP IT AND
IT'S CLEAR1 HOPE SOMEBODY
WHAT WE.WRITE5 A
NEED TOJ "DUMMIES"tDO. rBOOK•ABOUT
ITT
V
^Wu\\.
SAINT DOGBERT ENTERS 
THE LAND OF CUBICLES SEARCH­
ING FOR THE DEMONS OF 
STUPIDITY.
HOCJ LONG WILL IT 
TAKE TO FIX ANY 
PROBLEMS WE FIND 
IN OUR BETA 
PRODUCT?
)
THIS NEXT TRANSPARENCY 
XS AN INCOMPREHENSIBLE 
TUMBLE OF COMPLEXITY 
AND UNDEFINED 
ACRONYMS.0
SUDDENLY HE FINDS AN 
OVER-PROMOTED COMPUTER 
GURU SPOUTING USELESS 
DATABASE C0NCEPT5.
Andre wM cnnDm on 
t/TnaM oPM wnnDMhT 
EiCl.LliE12 DMhmo. 
s mfdhaM h33anh4Pv
IT 15 LOGICALLY 
IMPOSSIBLE TO 
SCHEDULE FOR THE 
UNKNOWN.
THE MONSTER ISpISPATCHED 
TO THE DARK CUORLD BY 
THE SIGHT OF DTS MOST 
FEARED OBJECT._______
(LOOK! ACTUAL ¿ODEQ
TRY TO
THINKIN THAT CASE,
AS AWE'LL FIX THE
/AANAGER,PROBLEMS
NOT AS ANBEFORE WE
ENGINEER.• FINDTHEtt.
' . )Vn
Ë 'Z=7\
YOU MIGHT CUONDER 
WHY I'M GOING TO 
SHOW IT TO YOU SINCE 
THE ONLY POSSIBLE RESULT 
IS TO LOWER YOUR
OPINION OF MY 
' COMMUNICATION 
SKILLS.
J @
FRANKLY, ITS BECAUSE I 
LIKE MAKING COMPLEX 
PICTURES MORE THAN 
I LIKE YOU.
T

---------------------------------------------------

BY HIROMI HASEGAWA
CASSANDRAHE'S fAWS!
Tq”g UiIi 
)ITj.n’—kwf. 
<DTO“f ”/
HECTOR!
THE ¿.AME WA?. 
CANCELLED ANO 
PARIS WBS TAKEN 
To THE PALACE.
BELIEVE ME, 
} I CAN TELL 
FROM MY 
FORESEEING dfi 
fO\NER. /
KIMS, PRIAH:
THE OP
TRiiY, FATHER CF 
5© SONS AMD 
DAUGHTERS.
WHERE HAVE YOU 
BEEN ALL THESE 
YEARS?
t Ph7M mMMit 
A SHEPHERD 
ALL OF MY UFE. 
I WAS RAIS&D 
IN THE FIELDS 
NEAR /AT It*-
/BY THE 60DS!^4 
IT'S uh&euevable... WE ALL THOUGHT YOO 
TD BE DEA&l
QUEEW HECuSà: ! 
BTO“fb W­ “f •T”g 
PÀRvS,HEL6HOf, CASSANDRA, DEIPHOSM, 
ELT...
z<f<f•<z :¦' P¦. -hhYE<'A-RRP 
SGO?,Q s, U/£O £G, ULC0
-h YEARS AGO? , QsU/£LC0M£ BACH/ —U
PiUME, I HAVEN'T SEEN THIS COUSIN FOR -4- YEARS NOW! Z WONOER IF SHE ST/LL REC06N'ZES ME... IF SHE SUüJVD) /fEMEMBsasy^.r r
'oo ooFF/j ~UGuigltI J
h/OOOosnfx
•nm IS THE TALLEST 3UILÙIHC W TAIWAN! YOU 
CAUSEE EVERYTHING FROM UP HERBÍ^r ir:^----
ANO THESE BINOCULARS 
ARE REALLY POWERFUL ! 
If] HEY! LET'S SEE IF I You CAM SEE SARAH 
\AHO STAU. THEY SAM '1 I THEY'RE OOIIA3 TO MYMBH/£iC fOHC,
WAT NEAf/S THEY \NUST BE OVEfi ON I THIS SICE...
-¿AAHK/j:ffIII A:<z<iS CO f.h: A¦ V¦ :<z<N Y':<z< S:¦.RE T< SA-zAF A:< f-RR ? KTI/r THE /V/QHrcivaS? HEY... MAYBE EVEN SOME PACH/NMO... HELL
CX^r\ maybe not rfc*ï\JHAr, GH£III
£s soEXC/T£t> PLUME! HEM 27,)^^L HERE! TAire/JAiWAN!
You LOOK IIHE YOU'RE 
S£U44 H/CH0,III U/OH4R 
You HUE B PEMOHSr*AT/ON 
\0R SOMETHINGf
Ame ricasWasl Mg If /\a Ilf¿¿\BuT N°J--
A:-A £BW,C SOs,
SWU44III!P¦. GOTTA 
STANO UPRIGHT BEFÛIE 
JT HITS -j------------si-------
CUT YOU HAYE A HOLE 
IN THE GKOU/fO FOR A I TOIiiTl HCW COULD YOU J
ZOCCU64ü r/fy,—
USE IT?! KrJU. fe.'
Sur LGB£ UJ U£
SPLASHES ?(
r Loc1 WHM TH'S POLL e>F THC LÊVER,YÛVK FIENOS
---i—. arepûûmed/
4BI* HAVE T\hAE Ta < RESCUE ONE ûfTOtK' G\RL 
~V OR.SiPGVWCK/ •*50 WHo w\LLVao 8E-WE 1 Mf*J oR THE BEETLE?/"
ficRSW H\(A/ smz 
HE/ I'M youR GtRlfRlEj^ 
•57A Ri*Et*SEf?? TÿrZ.
* K&l/SflVE M?/ l 
rnvaui? siPEK\cK.; 
\ AREtOT- \ ? ,_____
MCAUT BELIEVE lT/Yávi 5HC\3l-ü HAv/E REJCiiEP
alp ar iLpes ycr yautdf STôûD THERE/
f KERr'i A ÉWESTlW- i-. 
WHM"5 CREEN aw ûlAckc 
BujE au- ovERr?
( U”4a /k ( xIfBTP
Ci-oSE ENOMût-U?)
I'LL NEVER 
LEAVE VtW 
À<*MN.' 
PLEASE COME VIRNE wrrri us.
W 2D'ÆARS 
I HAVE NEVER. 
FORfaOITEH^ 
ABOUT TOU,
MY DEAR W
\ SON.
M-MOTHER'MOTHEK
LET US CELE&RATE THE'
Joyous return of our 
prince! we Shall dance 
„Ano SlNéi ALL NI61HT.'/
W«AT'S WKON(, DEIPHOBDS?-1 REALLY DoHT 
tIAVE TIME RJRTWIS-
WORRY NOT, 
WE ARE FAR 
\FROM DETEATH
'xiu “f’fkTV
1HE m5E 
\a fool 
•A lA
\ BEFORE 
II THE
U omo>.
... HE \S 
OUR S°N7
LAMENTING CHER V“ ' 
TVE EVER pECREASMi HaEH0S; 
<W\NCE TO BECOME J ÎS^Ï 
THE NEXT TROJAN ft <«£»«*, 
KlNfei? /{ AFR,B!'r
...I MUST FIND 
OENHNE ANP 
WlNti HER &ACK 
TD HUMAN FORM.,,
ktw
Peelsby TVllke Yeh
WHAT WAS THAT?
•AA A SCOOTER...Ill MAYBE ME SHOULD I START OFF MTU I V THE EMERGENCY
HELL, YOU JUST 
SQUAT AUb 2)0 IT.
JI

---------------------------------------------------

91£M¥mmmi s
EPISODE 9
DAN X EL. YAUGER
"BF. THOU FAITHFUL UNTO DEATH. 
AND I WILL GIVE THE A CROWN 
OF LIFE."
'THE HOLY BIBLE’
UflBlLKAL-COftP FKE.PBY WICK CASCMTO
You MIGHT WAtfT 
To TELL HER THAT 
YOU THREW THE. 
CARCASS XW HER. 
B/\CK YARP1
Ru
W-CPMT)! Cttt-B yatfL'Poes! i\g far 
MMtar fjMn l<« niUtra.u mf
0i/Bfi~ THE COUNTY!
8<AT WOTH/Ufc! UJ^O MAfces S4RE 
y<W>E &-6cTfci> l(MoaJ ftZfSfbe»JT 
grveitv r/we? t>/Ho 
^ Protects y«*f2.
iHueSTHE'tJT 
IKJ UT?i?
( T>af
VoM'D gETTT€(L SHUT fHeK 
UP FA&T( of2- }c|SS 6olF
fe^ES &<=dO(^E/ T04 !
P^ibti^T U(X’k'J\'o?.
is oiJ <«ni PHofJf.
© IWMC TVTfcSit-, C.-MW
filix THE" fiL£- o*; THF 
^ crry iocal.
gb
(.FAP£ -to BlA^O 
Fy: ow/Mi»A$ wuSic- HBf-£

---------------------------------------------------

HARRIS THEATER U J J A
1809 LIBERTY AVE.Æf p|_^YHOU$E
. V ‘ Jyr : ui craft
cEIhWWG rPSEEHRH- SWWC
477 MELWOOD STREET I
REX THEATRE
1601 CARSON
[Jolume 90, Issue 10DIVERSIONS
The Tartan, Carnegie Mellon University, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania13 November 1995
Film Festival brings quality cinema to Pittsburgh
yta ketsktbi sll •tspk1 k2 Wtikhvsr
By ERIC SALZMAN
Tartan Diversions Editor
The opening of the Harris Theater brought 
Pittsburgh’s high society out to Liberty Avenue 
this past Thursday. The theater, which is cur­
rently screening films for the Three Rivers Film 
Festival, is a project of the Pittsburgh Cultural 
Trust. President Carol R. Brown sees the theater 
as a beginning of “the revitalization of Liberty 
Avenue.”
“This theater symbolizes a turning point for 
Pittsburgh’s Cultural District,” Brown said. “The 
Trust has worked diligently over the past decade 
to create an economically viable arts and enter­
tainment district for the city that welcomes fami­
lies and visitors to 
afe, animated 
area.”
The Harris The­
ater is a corner­
stone in the rede­
velopment of Lib­
erty Avenue.
Present with 
Brown at the rib­
bon cutting were 
Pittsburgh Mayor 
Tom Murphy;
Paul Jenkins, 
president of the 
Claude Worth­
ington Benedum 
Foundation and 
treasurer of the 
Cultural. Trust
Board; Frank Tugwell, executive director of the 
Heinz Endowments; Dr. Doreen Boyce, president 
of the Buhl Foundation; Charlie Humphrey, ex­
ecutive director of Pittsburgh Filmmakers, which 
will be the principle tenant of the site; and Geneva 
Harris-Hahn, daughter of the Honorable John P. 
Harris, for whom the theater is named.
Later in the day, guests headed over to the 
Grand Lobby of the Benedum Center for a cocktail 
reception before the film festival’s first screening. 
Hors d’oeuvres ranged from yummy little eggroll 
ihingies, to spanikopita, to an open bar. Of the 
several speeches made, the Highlight of the hour 
came when Harris-Hahn’s son, speaking on his 
mother’s behalf, announced that the opening of 
the theater was just in time for her birthday — a 
lovely present, indeed. The entire room broke into 
a spontaneous round of “Happy Birthday” com­
plete with piano accompaniment.
At about 8:15, those who were able to break away 
from the open bar, made it back to the Harris 
Theater, where the Three Rivers Film Festival 
officially began. Charlie Humphrey, and Gary 
Kaboly (the director of exhibition in charge of the 
festival’s organization) cut a strip of 35 mm film. 
The lights went down in the 194-seat theater 
equipped with a 44-seat balcony, and The Neon 
Bible began.
It is a shame that such a loser of a flick had to 
start off such a cool festival. Now, supposedly, 
there are some real film buffs out there who really 
dig this movie, but the likelihood is that the mass 
movie-going audience will just be bored out its 
collective skull. Directed by Terence Davies, The 
Neon Bible is about a kid growing up in a small
______________ southern town
with his de­
pressed aunt 
and hysterical 
mother.
His life 
sucks, their 
lives suck, and 
your life will 
suck as you 
watch this 
movie.
However, 
there is tons of 
cool stuff to see 
during the fes­
tival. For just 
$5 a shot, go 
check out a 
couple of flicks 
that just may endup being the next Reservoir Dogs 
or Clerks.
“There are always hitches in a festival,” Kaboly 
said, but festival goers will have little to complain 
about as any hitches that may be around are very 
well hidden. Overall, Kaboly was “very pleased” 
with turnout on the festival’s opening day. The 
new Melwood screening room is absolutely beauti­
ful as is the Harris Theater.
Humphrey was more than happy with the new 
Harris Theater. “The theater is even more beauti­
ful than I thought it was going to be,” he said. “I 
think the architects did a fabulous job, as did the 
builders.”
Indeed, it seems that everyone participating in 
this year’s film festival has done a fine job. The • 
theaters are beautiful, the movies are running, 
and now it’s just up to you to pick some out and go 
see ’em.
Courtesy The Pittsburgh Cultural Trust
Francine Gemperle/Tartan Art Co-Editor
nbki1 Wrhdo tsiti 2WW sdkh2m W2b ?rtsihmL Wttr
Samuel Goldwyn Company
Director Kazuyoshi Okuyama talks over production on the set of The Mystery of Rampo.Is?smtit WhrP slli k2 lhvtbihk1 2W Wtikhvsr
By WLADIMIR LABEIKOVSKY
Tartan Staffwriter
Off-screen dialogue, 15-minute shots, virtually 
no plot, and it is in Farsi with subtitles. Do you 
need any more reasons to go and see this movie?
What: Through the Olive Trees 
Director: Abbas Kiarostami 
Company: Miramax Films
Through the Olive Trees is Abbas Kiarostami’s 
third installment in a narrative tightrope walk 
that started a few years ago with Where is My 
Friend’s House. Taken to be just a send-up of post­
war neorealism, it was a little movie about a boy 
who has to return a notebook to his classmate 
before their teacher finds out. This movie was 
followed by Life Goes On, in which the director of 
¦Where Is My Friend’s House goes looking for the 
actors of the first film after an earthquake has hit 
their town. Through the Olive Trees deals with a 
film crew that is shooting a scene from Life Goes 
On.
In the shoot we meet a young man who is hired 
to play a character in Life Goes On and who spends 
the whole movie courting (quite unsuccessfully) a 
young girl who has been hired to play his bride. The 
only real actor in these movies is the man who 
plays the director. Everybody else is hired on
location and plays basically themselves, although 
in purely fictional situations. Kiarostami seems 
very skilled at this, presumably because of his 
experience as a documentary filmmaker.
Unlike almost any movie dealing with the mak­
ing of a movie, the crew in this film is very calm, 
especially the director.
It is as if making this movie were a completely 
normal part of life that need not be rushed but 
enjoyed as the simple task it truly is (or should be). 
Through the film we are shown how the people in 
this village live. We are told their problems and 
their tragedies and realize that the complexity and 
anxiety of our own lives do not make any sense.
Predictably, the people who criticize Kiarostami’s 
films argue that he underestimates the cinema in 
using it just to show ordinary life. By now we take 
it for granted that movies must abound in drama 
and exaggeration, the mold of what our lives could 
be if we weren’t so lame.
Kiarostami shows us it does not have to be that 
way, and that life is only found in the ordinary 
details, the rest is just make-believe. So if you’re up 
for a subtly beautiful movie or just need a rest from 
the shoot-em-up/tear-jerker fodder that’s around, 
go check out Through the Olive Trees. After all, real 
life is more important than films.
Through the Olive Trees is playing at the Pitts­
burgh Playhouse on Monday, November 13 at 9pm.
By GRETEL T. GAAL
Tartan Staffwriter
I am stupid. At least, that is how certain ‘artsy’ 
films make me feel. The Mystery of Rampo, a 
Japanese film being shown for the festival, cer­
tainly made me feel this way in quite a few parts. 
It is difficult to say whether this was because of my 
own stupidity or the result of a cultural gap, though 
I certainly hope it was due to the latter.
What: The Mystery Of Rampo 
Director: Kazuyoshi Okuyama 
Company: Samuel Goldwyn
The film is subtitled, and I had to question the 
accuracy of the translation; anyone who has taken 
a foreign language course knows there are many 
foreign words and phrases that cannot be directly 
translated into En­
glish. As well, I am 
certain the movie 
contains many cul­
tural allusions (as it 
should, because it 
was originally made 
for a Japanese audi­
ence) with which I am 
unfamiliar. A viewer 
who is familiar with Japanese culture would surely 
be right in the game; I clearly wasn’t and, at times, 
felt like I was sitting up in peanut heaven with a 
pair of defective binoculars.
I do not wish to imply that The Mystery of Rampo 
is not an excellent piece of filmmaking, because it 
truly is. In many instances, the cinematography is 
absolutely breathtaking; certain scenes are truly 
works of art. As well, the story at the heart of this 
film is very intriguing and one that any writer 
would find fascinating.
The Mystery of Rampo is based upon an original 
story by Rampo Edogawa, one of the most famous 
Japanese writers in history; the film, in fact, broke 
box office records in Japan. The main character of 
the film is, appropriately, Edogawa Rampo (played
by Naoto Takenaka), a mystery writer caught 
between the realms of reality and fantasy. Rampo 
has written a short story banned by the pre-WWII 
government. In an eerie turn of events, Rampo is 
shown a newspaper article by his editor about a 
recently committed homicide: A man was suffo­
cated in a trousseau chest, and the main suspect is 
his wife. The crime mirrors the one Rampo wrote 
about in his short story; the woman could not have 
read it because it was unpublished.
Naturally, Rampo seeks out this woman, the 
hauntingly beautiful Shizuko; he is completely 
stunned when he sees her, for her face is the one he 
imagined when creating his character. Rampo falls 
in love with her and begins a sequel to his banned 
story. Soon, Rampo is completely consumed by his 
writing, so much so that the line between fact and 
fiction begins to disappear. Eventually, life seem­
ingly begins to imitate art, and Rampo. becomes 
one with his 
character Ko- 
goro Akechi, a 
handsome young 
detective whom 
Rampo considers 
to be his alter 
ego. Rampo cre­
ates a plot in 
which Akechi is 
meant to save 
Shizuko from her relative imprisonment by a crazy 
marquis, who is excellently portrayed by Mikijiro 
Iiira. Rampo, however, soon loses control over his 
characters, who begin to take on lives of their own. 
The viewers of this film are drawn into this erotic 
and mysterious world, until they, too, can no longer 
distinguish between fantasy and reality (at least I 
couldn’t).
The Mystery of Rampo is certainly a quality film; 
it is an emotional piece, funny one moment and 
graphically disturbing the next. As I mentioned, I 
was horribly lost at points, which frustrated me. 
However, for those used to viewing ‘art films’ (I 
usually go for Disney or Van Damme, myself), this 
is a must-see.
© Sony Picture Entertainment Inc. 
Love and Human Remains is another film showing during the festival. It is playing at the Harris Theater 
Thursday at 7 pm, Friday at 7 pm, and Sunday at 5 pm.
In many instances, the cinema­
tography is absolutely breathtak­
ing; certain scenes are truly 
works of art

---------------------------------------------------

MS-DOS/Windows and networking technologies.
Benefits include generous compensation pack­
ages, including 401 (k) and profit sharing, company- 
paid health and medical coverage, corporate fitness 
centers and tuition reimbursement. Ability to 
relocate is a must.
Call us today and find out why Computerworld 
said CA was the bestf h (/¡OMPUTERplace to work in the entire JfU550CIATES 
computer, industiy! Software superior by design.
For More Inlormalion. 
Please Write. Fax Or Gall:
Computer Associates 
One Computer Associates Plaza 
tslandia. NY 11788-7000
Tel: 1-800-454-3788
FaK:51B-342-5737
Or visit: http://www.cai.com
wsot kesk ka2ccc
Dei'wmÿ Pizza
Oakland/Shadyside 
4643 Baum Blvd. 
(near North Craig)
!------------------------------------------------------T-
One 16" Extra 
[ Large One Topping
Two 14" Large 
One Topping
Now hiring.
Experienced pizza makers needed.
682-7272
PAPA
We accept VISA and MASTERCARD.
10"0ne Topping 
& 2 Cokes
One 14" Large 
One Topping & An 
Order of Breadsticks 
99!gC h Fuuf !7f !g
Additional toppings $1.00 each 
Not valid with any other coupon 
. Valid only at participating stores
Additional loppings $1.00 each 
Not valid with any other coupon 
Valid only at participating store»
(Mon. -Thurs. 1 lam-4pm, 9pm-closo) 
Additional toppings $.70 each 
Not valid with any other coupon 
j Valid only at participating stores |
Additional toppings $1.00 each 
Not valid with any other coupon 
Valid only at participating stores
For the second year in a row, The Tartan was 
awarded a National Pacemaker for general 
excellence and outstanding achievement by the 
Associated Collegiate Press and the Newspaper 
Association of America Foundation.
Congratulations to all those who have helped to 
make The Tartan one of America's finest college
G2P?pktb nii2dhskti
1995 Computer Associates Inc.. Istandia. NY 11788-7000. All product names referenced herein an: trademarks of their respective companies. Equal opportunity cmploycf ^ii^
newspapers.
THE TARTAN
Why not start your career at the world's leading 
independent software company?
Right now, we're looking for programmers to 
develop, support and enhance systems and network 
management, database and applications development 
and business application software. Initial training 
involves a dynamic 31/2-month program that will 
immerse you in key industiy technologies and CA's 
technology strategy Candidates should have both an 
educational and a practical knowledge of C, C-n UNIX,

---------------------------------------------------

The Tartan • Carnegie Mellon University • 13 November 1995L.9
iNOTESjEROMÆBg
lUNDERGROUProl
>BU1LT.I0'SP1LI1
SIXTEEN) I
B&roswËl
UtrUa.a
KH
¡ffl" CULTI
© Priority Records
You carried 1.II8 pounds of books, 
used 844 No. 2 pencil leads, and 
filled 92 3.5" diskettes.
Now it all comes 
down to this.
I lifestyles at sites in northern 
¦ j California, Oregon, Arizona, 
H New Mexico, and Washington 
^ state.
v Send Your Resume 
to Intel Now
Send your ASCII resume via e-mail 
to jobs@intel.com. Or, post a letter- 
quality version to Intel, College 
Relations, Dept. M278, 1900 Prairie 
City Road, M/S FM3-145, Folsom, 
CA, 95630. For details on the world 
leader in information technology, see 
www.intel.com/intel/oppty.
You worked hard to get
your degree. Now put it to ¦ --------
work for you. If you’re about 
to receive a Bachelor’s,
Master’s or Ph.D. in Electrical 
Engineering, Computer Engineering, 
Computer Science, Chemical Engi­
neering, Material Sciences, Applied 
Physics, or similar technical disci­
plines, join Intel. We have entry-level 
opportunities in IC and Hardware 
Design, Manufacturing, Software 
Engineering, and Information 
Technology. With a choice of
Intel Corporation is an equal opportunity employer and fully supponi affirmative action predicci. Intel alio lupporti a drag-free workplace and requires that all offen of employment be contingent on Mtiifactory pre-employment drug ten reiulu. C1995. Intel Corporation. All rights leservctUntel and the Intel logo are registered trademarks of Intel Corporation.
gy NEIL DONNELLY
fartan Staffwriter
Remember fun? Remember 
ffhen it used to go hand in hand 
with rock 'n’ roll?
Unknown band plays good fun
Who: Dogmatics 
What: 1981-86 
Label: Vagrant Records/ 
Shredder Records
These days it seems as if most 
rock musicians are only inter­
ested in magnifying every one of 
their emotional scars for all the 
world to sympathize with.
Fun is, how- 
ever, some- 
thing that is 
definitely not 
lacking in 
1981-86, an an­
thology of the 
music of the 
Dogmatics.
Although 
large-scale 
fame eluded 
them, the Dog­
matics thrived, 
on the Boston 
music scene 
until 1986, 
when bassist 
Paul O’Hall- 
oran was killed 
in a motorcycle 
accident. They 
played a 
rockabilly/ga­
rage-pop hy­
brid that bor­
rowed heavily 
from the late
’50s and early ’60s while still in­
corporating a generous helping 
of good old present-day American 
debauchery. Essentially, it’s the 
kind of music that evokes an im­
mediate response of, “Hey! I could 
do that!” while still exhibiting an 
undeniable sense of raw power.
Loud guitars and a horn sec- 
ition open this collection with “Sis­
ter Serena,” a tale of a wicked 
nun. “You Say” is the only re­
motely political song on this 
record, and that’s only identifi­
able by the shouts of “Cambodia! 
El Salvador! Middle East!” “MTV
O.D.” brings to mind the Ramones 
in some of their mellower mo­
ments, until’the song’s end when
the band kicks into high gear. 
“King Size Cigarette” is the kind 
of song that the kids in bobby 
socks and leather jackets used to 
groove to, except for the beer- 
soaked vocals and buzzsaw gui­
tar attack. The garage-blues of 
“Gimme The Shakes” sounds a 
bit like a more raucous Rolling 
Stones, complete with the off-kil- 
ter-but-appropriate vocal harmo­
nies that Mick and Keith are so 
famous for.
“Pussy Whipped” is sure to be a 
feminist anthem, complete with 
such liberating lines as “Now I’m 
with her. all the time / She’s driv­
ing me out of my mind /1 guess 
I’m whipped ... pussy whipped.” 
A driving bass line and reverber­
ating vocals make “Good Looking 
Girls” a classic display of bar­
room rockabilly. “Hardcore Rules” 
starts as an intoxicated hillbilly 
ditty but quickly explodes into a 
blast of rude punk rock, with lyr­
ics like “Hardcore rules, don’t be 
stupid, start a fight with your 
best friend.”
A surprisingly blazing guitar 
solo highlights “Shithouse,” a 
tune'that puts a great spin on a 
traditional blues melody.
“Everything Went Bad” is an 
upbeat, guitar-driven tale of de­
spair, while “Cry Myself To Sleep”
is a much more melancholy and 
melodic account of loneliness.
The Dogmatics have their way 
with the classic “Teenager In 
Love” on “Teenage Lament,” 
warping the chorus into “Why 
must I be a teenager on drugs?” It 
is otherwise faithful to the origi­
nal, though, right down to the 
hand claps and falsetto backing 
vocals.
“Saturday Night Again” is pure 
rock ‘n’ roll, right down to the 
appropriately timed screams and 
piano fills. “Drinking By The Pool” 
tells of the excitement that the 
mixture of water sports and alco­
holic beverages 
can bring, while 
“My Little 
Sister’s Got A 
Motorbike” is a 
rockabilly an­
them whose title 
pretty much ex­
plains the sub­
ject matter.
A more sub­
dued mood is 
brought on by 
“Thayer St.,” but 
“Tell Me” 
promptly speeds 
the tempo back 
up.
A sneering “1- 
2-3-4” starts off 
“Public Service,” 
which extolls the 
virtues of alcohol 
but warns the 
listener not to 
“shoot up.” 
“Rockabilly 
Ramble,” an in­
strumental, and “Sex Bomb” 
(whose lyrics are comprised solely 
of “Sex bomb, baby, I wanna have 
sex with you,”) bring this record 
to a close in a whirlwind.
If you like your music deep, 
meaningful, and gloomy, avoid 
the Dogmatics at all costs.
However, if you can crack a 
smile and perhaps even force your 
tongue into your cheek, you owe 
it to yourself to hear 1981-86.
It’s a fitting tribute to a band 
that could’ve hit the big time, but 
instead was derailed by tragedy. 
The Dogmatics played rock mu­
sic the way it was meant to be 
played, a way that is now all but 
dead: loud, fast, and with a smirk.
© Vagrant Records/Shredder Records
Notes samples mixed bands
By B. ZIMMERMAN
Tartan Staffwriter
With all the alternative mu­
sic compilations the labels are 
parading around, be it in the 
form of a soundtrack or other­
wise, it’s amazing there’s such 
things as “underground” bands 
anymore.
Who: Various artists 
What: Notes from Under­
ground, Vol. I and II 
Label: Priority Records
For that reason, it’s nice to 
come across a series where the 
biggest names are 7 Year Bitch 
and Unsane, rather 
than Candlebox and 
Alice in Chains. Toss in 
some cool semi-offen­
sive cover art, and you 
have Priority Rec-ords’
Notes from the Under­
ground.
Notes does us a favor 
by using the comp as a 
sampler instead of a 
showcase of the label’s 
finest. Combing 
through loads of indie 
labels, Priority has se­
lected 32 relatively un­
known bands for the 
first two installments 
of the series, which for 
the most part is rather 
mainstream-unfriendly. These 
collections can also be viewed 
as collectibles because the 
tracks are all either unreleased 
or 7-inch rarities (ooooh! pant, 
pant, drool!)
In volume one, which is un­
soundly balanced in favor of 
typical indie-pop, Alcohol 
Funnycar seems to be the band 
most likely to succeed with 
“Abandoned,” a track that must 
rip live. Other songs in the pop 
vein that are worth an honor­
able mention come from 
Everclear, Morning Glories, 
and Saturnine. Recalling a 
noisier Medicine (a good thing, 
I might add) is Sixteen Deluxe’s 
“Daisy Haze,” while moodier 
pieces such as Thirty Ought 
Six’s Pumpkins-like “Huck” 
andE. Coli’s fantastic “In Mud” 
give the body of the CD some
much-needed diversity.
Then, of course, there is the 
world’s loudest band, godhead- 
Silo. These two guys play with so 
much energy and sheer volume, 
they can only do five-song sets. 
“You Must Pay,” their offering, is 
numbing in its power, succeed­
ing where “Scrape” (by Unsane) 
fails in its pussyfooted attempt at 
being a big-time noise rock an­
them. I may as well say it, I hate 
Unsane. I’ve never listened to a 
song that made me want to pee on 
the CD before, but each time I 
hear them, I nearly grind my 
molars to dust. How they devel- 
opedthe following they have must 
be the opening of the seventh
seal.
Why stop? I’m on a roll — an­
other thing that sucks on here is 
Prayerfactory’s “Hair from Her 
Face,” from that obsolete genre 
known as grindcore. Icky—that’s 
all I can say. Same goes for the 
song by Slug. If you can tell me 
what “Slug II Meat” means, I’ll 
buy you some quality escargot. 
Once again, ick.
What volume one lacks in di­
versity, volume two makes up for 
tenfold. Running the gamut from 
experimental to punk, no two 
songs really sound the same. 
Chokebroke’s depressing “Lem­
onade” made me cry, but that 
probably has more to do with some 
repressed childhood memory. 
Karp wins the best song title 
award with “I’d Rather be Clog­
ging,” which features a cameo 
appearance by the Smashing
Pumpkins guitar sound but in 
a hardcore format. Further 
(who also appear on the recent 
Joy Division tribute album) do 
a respectable imitation of Toad 
the Wet Sprocket on “Jumper,” 
while Barkmarket, a band I 
used to equate with Unsane 
(grrr...) turn in a really cool 
song called “Little White 
Dove.” If they stay on this road, 
they could actually go some-; 
where. 7 Year Bitch’s “M.I.A^';:; 
is good, but these grrrls scare 
the living beej ezus out of me— 
’nuff said.
The best song on volume two- 
is probably (IMAO — in my* 
arrogant opinion) a sometimes-; 
dissonant drudge called^ 
“Slow Screw,” by Long; 
Hind Legs. Starting, 
slow with a slightly dis-;.-: 
torted guitar, the songi' 
builds, taunting you 
with swellingfeedbaclc, 
then never really lets 
loose like you expect it 
to.
Bad points? Termi­
nally lobotomized Fore­
skin 500’s “Perm- 
atortise” is as blatant a 
White Zombie rip-off as 
I’ve ever heard. Pinch­
ing Judy doesn’t really 
impress, either. But 
where volume one suf­
fered from a few out and 
out hideous songs, volume two 
suffers from simply lackluster 
performances and question­
able production here and there: 
Still, there’s enough bits in 
each of the guilty songs to keep 
you interested, or at the worst; 
skip to the next track.
Cutting to the chase, I have 
to give Priority a golf clap for 
this comp series. Although 
not all the songs or bands tickle 
me the right way, I feel no 
shame in endorsing these CDs 
because it seems the label’s 
collective heart is in the right 
place.
So next time you’re looking 
for something new, put down 
that Hootie album (good God, 
please put down that Hootie.: 
album!) grab the Notes from 
the Underground CDs, and de*" 
cide from there.
Cheesy sitcoms make for year’s 10 worst television programs
On the Tube
by Dan Rosenberg
1995 was a great year for drama. The 
success of ER, the year’s most-watched 
show, revived the dying genre. Now, 
there is at least one great dramatic se­
ries on every weeknight. Unfortunately, 
the same cannot be said for comedy. In 
fact, the only network sitcom worthy of 
accolades is Frasier. Therefore, it is not 
surprising that this year’s 10 are all 
sitcoms, eight of which premiered in the 
past two months. All of them are cheap 
imitations of successful series, and most 
of them are faring poorly in the ratings. 
Nevertheless, only one of these series 
has officially been canceled.
[ Here are the 10 worst programs of 
995:
1. Too Something (Fox), the awful 
itcom featuring Eric Schaeffer and 
tonal Lardner Ward as best friends who 
'ork in a mailroom but dream of being 
writer and photographer, respectively, 
'he stars can’t act, the writing is hor- 
ible, and the program is simply not 
inny. Even the title is terrible (although 
ox is currently running a contest en- 
!°uraging viewers to rename the series). 
Sow about Too Stupids
2. The Bonnie Hunt Show (CBS) fea- 
ures the likable Hunt trapped in a per­
verse version of The Mary Tyler Moore 
'how. She plays Bonnie Kelly, a small- 
own reporter who is at first in over her 
^ad at a major Chicago TV station but 
i°on proves that she is up for the job. 
4ke Mary, this series depicts Bonnie’s 
tome life as well as her working envi­
ronment, yet Bonnie doesn’t work for
WJM and best friend Holly is no Rhoda. 
Hopefully, this series, likeMa/y s Chuck­
les, will soon bite the dust.
3. Martin (Fox) is simply a star vehicle 
for Martin Lawrence. Unfortunately, he 
is neither an appealing actor nor a tal­
ented comedian. When he dons dresses 
to play his mother or unattractive neigh­
bor, all Lawrence succeeds in doing is 
showing just how pathetic his series is. 
Martin, which has flourished on Fox for 
the past four years, has recently taken a 
nose-dive in the ratings. Hopefully, the 
end is near for this abrasive comedian.
4. Misery Loves Company (Fox), the 
lone cancellation among this group of 
turkeys, chronicled the lives of three 
friends as they re-entered the dating 
game following their recent divorces. 
The series wanted viewers to sympa­
thize with these charac­
ters, but like the men’s 
wives, the audience 
quickly abandoned these 
born losers.
5. Ellen (ABC), which 
during its first season was 
called These Friends of 
Mine, chronicled the mis­
adventures of a quartet of 
single confidants. When 
the title changed the fol­
lowing season, only two of 
the principles remained, 
and the series focused less 
on the ensemble and more 
on. its title character, 
played by Ellen De- 
Generes. DeGeneres has 
her moments, but by put­
ting the spotlight on her­
self she Has reduced her 
supporting players to one­
dimensional bores and 
made her character annoy­
ing instead of appealing.
6. High Society (CBS), a 
dreadful Absolutely Fabu­
lous clone that wastes the 
talent of stars Jean Smart 
CDesigning Women) and
Mary McDonnell CDances With Wolves). 
Smart portrays Ellie, an alcoholic writer 
of trashy novels who lusts after her best 
friend’s 17-year-old son. McDonnell plays 
the friend, who is also Ellie’s publisher. 
The only spark in this otherwise lifeless 
half hour is Jayne Meadows in a small 
role as McDonnell’s mother. They should 
have called this^ program Absolutely 
Horrible.
7. The Preston Episodes (Fox) stars In 
Living Color's David Allen Grier as a 
stuffy English professor who resigns his 
teaching position to work as a columnist 
for a trendy tabloid. Grier proved he had 
talent on Color, but he has not brought 
any of that acting ability to this role and 
neither have his supporting players. This 
series is currently on hiatus, a status 
that usually results in cancellation.
8. The Pursuit of Happiness (NBC) 
does not provide contentment for its 
viewers. It is poorly written, and the 
acting is flat. Tom Amandes plays an 
idealistic lawye.r whose life is turned 
upside-down when his wife loses her job 
and his annoying brother-in-law (Larry 
Miller) moves in. The series gives a 
weekly dose of Amandes whining and 
Miller further antagonizing him. One 
expects more from the creators ofFrasier 
and Wings.
9. Ned and Stacey ¦{Fox) are Thomas 
Haden Church (Lowell on Wings) and 
Debra Messing (ATYP.D Blue), two strang­
ers who marry for convenience. She needs 
an apartment; he needs a wife to im­
prove his 
corporate 
image. This
is really just The Odd Couple, witfrine 
pair in question being spouses who hiaye 
little in common instead of buddies. 
While Felix and Oscar were likable'and 
well-portrayed, Ned and Stacey are grat­
ing and poorly depicted.
10. The Single Guy (NBC) is simpiyta 
lame rip-off of Seinfeld, making Jerry, 
George, and Elaine 10 years younger, 
giving George and Elaine boring spouts, 
and turning Kramer into an elderly cfojQr- 
man played by Ernest Borgnine. Who 
needs this stupid replica when one can 
watch the real thing a half hour lafer?
Stay tuned for the “best of ’ list. Dan 
will bring it to you soon.
Gtrt•bskt ’bslhkh2m
With axsrW2pb Grsii OhmL,
College memories can last a life­
time, when they’re preserved in a 
Balfour Class Ring. Sports, 
academics, degrees, years of 
graduation and custom school 
designs can all be captured in your 
Balfour Class Ring...a tradition of 
excellence since 1913!
Wednesday & Thursday 
November 15 & 16 
10:00am - 3:00pm 
Baker Hall 
$35.00 Deposit
Balfour* No one remembers in so many

---------------------------------------------------

L10The Tartan • Carnegie Mellon University • 13 November 1995
Social hangouts find room at CMU
By ENA KHAN
Tartan Assistant Diversions Editor
With the new University Center still 
under construction, students lack a so­
cial hub on campus. They are forced to 
come up with makeshift locations that 
can serve as the general “hangout” spots.
While some may say a CMU social 
scene is an oxymoron, one would be 
surprised to discover the wealth of loca­
tions on campus to “hang out.” Between
Hunt. No, the library is no substitute for 
a party, but studying there does have its 
perks.
Another CMU hot spot is right outside 
of Doherty Hall. Just about everyone 
passes through this high-traffic area at 
some point in the day. Many stop on 
their way to class to talk to friends. 
Others sit on the benches studying, eat­
ing, smoking, separating the attractive 
from the unattractive, and just waiting. 
Perrin Rowland, a sophomore majoring
the-masses of people gathering in front in professional writing and anthropol- 
of Doherty Hall, excit­
ing' ping-pong games 
in.the CS lounge, and 
hours of fun in the ar­
cade, it’s surprising 
that CMU isn’t consid­
ered a regular party 
school.
Okay, so maybe it’s 
not the typical party 
school, but that doesn’t 
mean fun stuff doesn’t happen here.
• Take Hunt Library, for example. One 
would think that the library would be 
the ideal place to get away from those 
distracting social butterflies. However, 
such is not the case. In fact, Hunt Li-
“That’s why this school sucks in the 
wintertime. There's nowhere to hang 
out. ”
— Becky Barbisch, sophomore, ECE
ogy, said, “I figure if I sit anywhere long 
enough, I’ll see all my friends eventu­
ally.”
This year Doherty has become “the 
cool place to be” in part because good ol’ 
Skibo is gone. “Since 
binary is considered by many to be one of we don’t have a stu- 
tMbigger hangouts on campus. dent center we need a
It sounds a little odd, because libraries common gathering
the Doherty intersection compensates 
for the loss of the old student center. But 
some like Rowland are left wondering 
where the people will go when it gets 
cold. Becky Barbisch, a sophomore ECE 
major, said, “That’s why this school sucks 
in the wintertime. There’s nowhere to 
hang out.” Next year the University 
Center should alleviate this problem 
and change some aspects of social life on 
campus by providing a central location 
for students to congregate.
Other cool places to hang include the 
current Student Center and 
Morewood Gardens. Senior 
physics major Josh Prinsky 
was brave enough to admit 
that he “spends every wak­
ing moment in the arcade 
room.” The lounge in the Stu­
dent Center, although it is 
small, provides a popular 
place to eat, read a paper, or 
just chat with friends. For 
Jamie Zeigler, a freshman French ma­
jor, Scotland Yard is the perfect place to 
meet friends and eat dinner.
“It’s open late and the hummus isn’t 
bad,” he said.
don’t try to create social atmospheres. 
They are usually considered to be quiet 
places to work, work, work, but the first 
floor of Hunt is an exception.
“I never get much done on the first 
flobr. I see too many people I know,” said 
Shana Reade, a freshman H&SS stu- 
defft. Books seem to bring out the chatty 
side of CMU students, not to mention 
the wandering eyes of young boys and 
girls, which often lead minds astray.
People have been known to get a date 
or two while checking out material at
place,” said Christina 
Lopez, a sophomore 
psychology major. 
Adam Darby, a senior 
technical writing ma­
jor, said, “Skibo was 
the hangout place ev­
eryone would go to be­
fore class, after class, 
between classes, and 
during classes.” For 
now, until the really 
chilly weather sets in,
Andrew McDermott/Tartan Photo Editor 
Scotland Yard is one of the more popular campus hangouts.
Gangsta rappers 
roar on new CD
By JAY MIOLLA
Tartan Junior Staffwriter
“Move back mother-fukkaz, the Onyx 
is here.” Onyx is back with a new 
album. It has been a long time since 
their last CD, and they’ve come back 
with the bomb (that’s good). All We 
Got Iz Us is the name of their newest 
release, and it is an excellent come­
back disc.
Who: Onyx
What: All We Got Iz Us 
Label: Def Jam Music Group Inc.
Onyx was the shit back in the day. 
The single “Slam” 
could not be 
touched. Onyx 
remains one of 
the most hard­
core artists in the 
gangsta rap gen­
re. Artists like 
Onyx, Ice Cube,
Cypress Hill, and 
Das Efx are re­
sponsible for the 
birth of gangsta 
rap. Sure, NWA 
was around be­
fore them, but 
they rhymed 
about staying in 
school and staying away from drugs, 
which is a far-removed idea from the 
rhymes on this disc or any other true 
gangsta rap CD. Onyx rhymes about 
killing themselves, smoking pot, kill­
ing other people, encouraging other
people to kill themselves, drinking 
40s, and selling drugs, just to name a 
few of their beliefs.
Although people might not agree 
with some of these ideas, the music 
still rocks.
You’ll notice that the sampling level 
is very low on this album. Onyx has 
always been one to use its own beats 
instead of biting them off some 1970s 
funk tune. Look out for cuts like 
“Shout” and “Getto Mentalitee” — 
these seem like single-bound songs 
off the album, if they could only filter 
out all the swear words. Sticky-fingaz 
is definitely in effect on this disc. He 
has to be my all-time favorite rapper, 
just because he 
is so innovative 
with his style 
and rhythm. 
This disc is no 
exception; he 
still has the mad 
flavor you would 
expect, but bet­
ter.
Overall the 
disc just rocks. I 
think it was 
worth waiting 
for. They have
______ come back with
© Def Jam Music Group Inc. fresh stuff, and 
although the al­
bum is only 45 minutes long, it’s still 
worth the 12 bucks.
If you get this and enjoy it or even 
if you don’t, I would suggest Das Efx’s 
new disc, Hold It Down — it rocks as 
well.
FOR WOMEN ONLY
Breast cancer is of the leading causes of death among women in the USA. One of 
every nine American women will develop breast cancer during her lifetime.
Factors that increase a woman's risk for breast cancer are; a positive family history 
in a mother or a sister, menstruation at an early age, late menopause, childless­
ness, first pregnancy after age 30, radiation exposure, a high fat diet, obesity and 
1 moderate or greater alcohol consumption. If detected early, breast cancer has an 
excellent chance for cure. That is why monthly self-breast exams are so important.
: In addition to self examination, you should see your health care provider for a 
routine check-up, including a breast exam, at least one a year.
*Self Breast Examination (cut out and tape on bathroom mirror)
FOR MEN ONLY
Testicular cancer is one of the leading causes of death in males between 15 and 35 
years of age. It is a relatively rare cancer and the etiology is unknown. The inci­
dence in young men is approximately 23 in 100,000 males.
There is an increased risk of developing testicular cancer in an individual with a 
history of undescended testicle or an inquinal hernia in childhood.
If testicular cancer is detected early, it is almost 100% curable. That is why testicu­
lar self-examinations are so important.
^Testicular self-examination (cut out and tape on bathroom mirror)
Breast self exams should be performed at the same time each month. The best 
time is 3 or 4 days after the monthly period has ended, when the breasts are least 
tender and swollen. If you are taking birth control pills you should examine your 
breasts on the day you start your new pack of pills.
Begin the exam by standing before a mirror and inspecting the breasts with arms 
at your sides and then over your head.
;Then place your hands on your hips 
;and tighten your chest and arm 
:-.muscles. Observe for any asymmetry 
-;of the breasts, masses, or dimpling of 
•;skin.
The remainder of the exam can be 
performed in the bath or shower or 
while lying down on your back. Place 
your right hand behind your head.
With your left hand move the pads of 
your fingers over the entire right breast 
in small circular motions beginning at 
the outer most portion of your breast 
and making circles inward towards the
nipple. Be sure and examine all portions of your breast including the armpit and 
nipple. Gently squeeze the nipple to see if any fluid comes out. Repeat the proce­
dure for the other breast.
Most lumps will be non-cancerous, however, see your health care provider for any 
lumps that last over a month or for any nipple discharge.
A monthly breast self examination should be a lifetime habit as it is one of the best 
ways to screen for the early stages of breast cancer.
»Reprinted from contemporary Pediatrics - 7/85
The Student Health Service and Division of Student Affairs 
For more information, call Student Health Services at 268-2157
• Examine your testicles at least once a month while you are in the shower.
• Roll each testicle between the thumb and first three fingers until the entire sur­
face has been covered. The testicles should feel round and smooth, like hard- 
boiled eggs.
• Be on the lookout for lumps, irregularities, a change in the size of the testicle, or 
a dragging sensation. All of these are possible signs of a tumor. If you find any of 
them, consult your health care provider at once. Remember, you need to exam­
ine only the testicles themselves, not the sperm tubes or blood vessels that are 
also in the scrotum.
• Pick a regular day of the month that is easy to remember to examine your tes­
ticles. Do the examination more frequently if you prefer.
Testicular cancer is a rare killer of young men. But when it takes so little to protect 
yourself — just half a minute a month — it makes sense to do this simple examina­
tion.
•Reprinted from contemporary Pediatrics - 7/85
The Student Health Service and Division of Student Affairs 
For more information, call Student Health Services at 268-2157
L..J L.

---------------------------------------------------

The Tartan • Carnegie Mellon University • 13 November 1995
My2k n U2k jW w2mt1T
!Volu./,f /MrvMJ<I U<»;v $10,500
SEE YOUR TOYOTA DEALER TODAY. ®TOYOTA
MSRP BASED ON TAX. TAGS. TITLE. FREIGHT. OPTIONAL & REGIONALLY REQUIRED EQUIPMENT. DEALER SETS FINAL PRICE
DH 2110
J 1 |n| » i M11111
movies you may have seen before...,
By JOHN BIGGS
Thursday, November 16
Animation Festival
Animation is an art. It’s really neat, because 
even though it looks like real people moving around, 
it’s just a series of still drawings. In fact, you can 
make an animation at home. Here’s how:
What you need: 10 sheets of thick construction 
paper, scissors (get an adult’s help), a stapler, 
pens, pencils, and markers.
What to do: Cut the pap er into halves. Then you’ll 
have many sheets of paper. Draw a picture on the 
first piece of paper. Put that piece of paper aside. 
Draw another picture, a little different from the 
first, moving it up or down, changing its shape 
(only a little) and put that piece aside. Then do this 
for the rest of the sheets of paper, changing the 
drawing each time, only a little. Draw a man 
walking, or a dog catching a ball.
Finally, staple the papers together and flip the 
bottom of the booklet with your thumb. If you do it 
fast enough, your picture will move!
At 6, 8,10 pm, and midnight
Friday, November 17
Nine Months
There are quite a few cheap shots I could take at 
this movie. See, it stars Hugh Grant, who was 
recently arrested for getting his car waxed by a 
young woman named Desiree or Divine or some­
thing. But I’m above that: I believe in good, honest 
journalism, so I won’t even attempt any sort of 
humor in that vein.
This piece is a masterstroke of fine cinematogra­
phy. Grant plays a guy who gets married and finds 
out that his wife is having his baby. The wife gets 
a big kick out of it, and there’s also Robin Williams 
who plays a gynecologist who talks about volvos. 
This is a funny, slick movie, full of mirth and 
mayhem. There is a scene in a car, I think, but 
nothing involving a woman named after a feeling.
At 6, 8,10 pm, and midnight.
Saturday, November 18
Species
This is a heck of a movie. It stars a naked woman 
and a bunch of other people who are embroiled in 
a plot by evil aliens to make beautiful creatures 
that eat people and are good in the sack.
See, the aliens sent a bunch of scientists the cure 
for cancer and then, when they got our attention, 
sent a DNA code that would turn pretty women 
with big boobies into head-sucking monsters. So 
they make this pretty woman with big boobies, and 
she escapes and tries to mate so she can make more 
pretty babies with little arms and legs that grow 
into big babies. So the government hires these 
guys and a girl to go out and kill this evil boobie 
creature. Pretty scary, huh?
As I said before, this movie features a naked 
woman, so there’s really no reason not to go unless 
you have some taste.
At 6, 8,10 pm, and midnight.
Sunday, November 19
Hatchet for a Honeymoon
The original french version of Mikey Meyers’ So 
I Married an Ax Murderer, this movie also lent 
script ideas to such fine flicks as Apocolypse Now, 
Citizen Kane, and The Great Train Robbery.
Actually, I have no idea what it is about, but 
judging from the title, it is some-sort-a guy and gal 
get married, go on a honeymoon, and find problems 
with the more useful side of a hatchet movie. If 
you’re into that sort of flick, go see it. If you’re not, 
go see it anyway ’cause maybe you will be or 
something.
Liaisons leaves lasting impression
ByALEXLEWIN
Tartan Staffwriter
“I was born to dominate your 
sex and avenge my own.” Just 
one of the many lines from Chris­
topher Hampton’s play Les Liai­
sons Dangereuses (based on the 
1782 novel by Choderlos de 
Laclos) that demonstrates the 
playful animosity with which the 
characters treat love and sex. 
The line is spoken by the Mar­
quise de Merteuil (Rebekah 
Slotnick), an intelligent, vindic­
tive, thoroughly immoral woman 
who treats romance as though it 
were a game, engineering the 
double-crosses, betrayals and 
sexual escapades that constitute 
the play.
Accompanying her in her de­
ceit is the Vicomte de Valmont, 
a charming man with a re­
nowned and nasty reputation. 
The Marquise and Valmont were 
lovers at one time and now she 
has challenged him to obtain
Valmont’s fun can’t last, how­
ever. As in all tragedy, the flaws 
of the characters must catch up 
with them. In Madame de 
Tourvel, Valmont finds true, vir­
tuous love, but he realizes this 
only when it’s too late, having
the professed love of Madame de 
Tourvel (Jeri Misler). His reward 
if he succeeds: an “evening” with 
the Marquise. They are at once 
partners in crime and rivals in 
love, two people who take great 
pleasure in toying with the emo­
tions of younger 
would-be lovers.
Valmont speaks of 
“the battle between 
love and virtue” as if 
they are opposites, as 
if one has nothing to 
do with the other. He 
takes great pride in 
his conquests, and en­
joys the fact that his 
affairs are devoid of 
virtue. Zander Teller, 
who recalls a younger Photo courttesy Pitt's department of theater arts
Tom TTiiina niovc Marie Sirakos and Zander Teller converse in 
vXontwo^eS tes L~ ^gereueses 
He is at once hateful and lovable, abandoned it to continue trying 
taking such a perverse pleasure in to win the Marquise’s game. The 
his sexual amusements that the large, skeletal clock on stage, as 
moments when we do see his true well as the transitory tick-tock 
emotion are powerful and moving, sounds between scenes remind
us of the inevitability of time and 
that the game must come to an 
end.
Apart from the clock, which is 
meant to stand out, the set is 
refreshingly simple. The cos­
tumes are unimposingly elegant, 
mostly comprised of shades of 
white, stained yellow or brown 
near the bottom, as if to imply the 
characters’ true natures lurking 
beneath the refined facade of 18th 
century French high society. •
While this production certainly 
shows signs of amateurism, over-, 
all it works to bring out the rich-: 
ness of Hampton’s characters, the 
steady pacing of his dialogue and 
the forwardness of his sexual in­
nuendoes. Scenes of aristocratic 
tea drinking and card playing are 
routinely contrasted with shame­
less, often shocking, seduction 
and villainous plotting. It’s a com­
pletely enjoyable soap-opera-like 
piece of work, and Pitt has done a 
very good job of bringing it to the 
stage.
G2P?pktb Wrhdoi Wr22l dhmtPsi hm ktdem2r2Lhdsr sLt
No cyberfilm review (or film 
cyberreview) would be complete 
without a reference to a true clas­
sic: Brainstorm.
I will admit that I haven’t seen 
this movie in a very long time, but 
I do remember a few things about 
it: the goofy helmet thing that can 
record your thoughts, which the 
bad guys want (of course) but the 
good guys want so they can find 
out what death is like; it was 
Natalie Wood’s last film; and 
Christopher Walken hates wal­
nuts. Rent it before someone hacks 
into your Mac and ruins your credit
the “Goofy” pull down menu at 
the top of your screen.
Our next stop on the Cyber- 
Movie Information Superhigh­
way is Prototype X-29A. What’s 
this movie about? Well, for once, 
I am at a loss. You’re on your own 
here.
It isn’t often that I completely 
forget everything about the plot 
of a movie, so that should give 
you an idea of what you’re deal­
ing with.
I remember the RoboCop-ish 
cyber-soldier in this post-apoca- 
lyptic cyber-culture, with lots of
If I see another “Dark Gothic Super 
Hero” flick, I'm going to move to 
Sweden.
rating. Moving right along at 28.8, 
we come to another classic, and 
one of my favorites: Circuitry Man. 
I think that the best, one buzz­
word description of this film would 
be “cyber-stupid.” From android 
loverboys to a desert-roving Japa­
nese gang, this movie has more 
punch than the TKO button on a 
Nintendo “Punch-Out!” arcade 
game.
So you say you want an entire 
region devoid of oxygen to provide 
cheap “turn on the air” gags? You 
got it! John Vernon (Schwarz- 
eneggar’s nemesis from Com­
mando) plugging appliances into 
his head? Look no further! A bi­
zarre, incoherent climax?
A resounding yes! In fact, it’s 
more fun than spotting William 
Shatner at a UNIX convention! 
They even made a sequel with 
Traci Lords (which I haven’t seen 
yet)! You’ll find this option under
cyber-tech and cyber-people and 
cyber-weapons and the occasional 
cyber-villain. Unfortunately, 
these were all a tremendous let­
down.
The cyber-soldier is a far cry 
from RoboCop. The post- 
apocolyptic cyber-culture looks 
like some old burned-out build­
ings in California.
The cyber-tech looks like it was 
put together from some stuff they 
got in the bargain bin at Radio 
Shack.
The cyber-people are uninter­
esting and flat. The cyber-weap­
ons are kinda nifty, but they just 
keep reusing the same ones, so 
they aren’t as cool after you see 
them the first 50 times.
And the less said about the 
cyber-villain, the better, espe­
cially since I can’t remember any­
thing he did or even what he 
looked like. If you’re looking to
feed your hunger for cyber-stuff,, 
you’d be better served staring at 
your microwave for a few hours.
So you say you still want to. 
flood your optic nerves with some 
glowing electrons from your ca,th- 
ode ray idiot box, eh?
Well, why don’t you just say 
you want to watch more televi­
sion?
It’s a much shorter way of say­
ing it, and more people will un­
derstand you.
And while you’re watching, you 
might even consider watching 
Freejack.
In my cyber-opinion, this movie 
just doesn’t get enough credit: 
how often can you see Mick 
Jagger riding around in a tank? 
Or Buster Poindexter getting 
shot? Or Emilio Estevez?
And if those reasons aren’t 
enough, the soundtrack contains 
some tunes by the Scorpions and 
Jesus Jones, and they’ll probably 
get royalties or something, so if 
not for any other reason, do it for 
them. Just remember: The co­
axial cable plugs into your TV, 
not your ear.
Well kids, it seems that the 
SLIP connection from the cyber­
film area of my brain is now trans­
ferring nothing but empty pack­
ets.
Fortunately, I have root access, 
so I should be able to telnet to a 
mirror site sometime in the fu­
ture.
But until then: Anonymous 
User Access Denied.
Carey Clevenger is a senior cre­
ative writing major. It is a con­
spiracy! If you still aren’t con­
vinced, count how many times 
that annoying prefix popped up. 
Now are you convinced'? You 
should be — it’s in there.
File 13
by Carey Clevenger
Sometimes I think everyone 
who writes screenplays is some­
how hooked into a big, collective 
brain somewhere in Iowa and 
they just keep rehashing the 
same script every few years. Stop 
and think about it a minute. If I 
see another “Dark Gothic Super 
Hero” flick, I’m going to move to 
Sweden.
Apparently, the current Hol­
lywood trend is following the 
current trend in the world: 
Cyberization.
Think about all of the nifty 
buzzwords we owe to the infor­
mation age: World Wide Web! 
Information Superhighway! 
Multi-tasking! Quad-speed op­
tical drive! Integrated Multi-Me­
dia! Commodore VIC 20! The 
list goes on and on.
In the past six months alone, 
we’ve seen Johnny Mnemonic, 
Hackers, The Net, Virtuosity, and 
Strange Days. The modern cin­
ema is a “virtual” cyber-copia of 
(incomprehensible) high-tech 
jargon and technical(ly impos­
sible) wizardry.
But are these cyberflicks as 
innovative as they would have 
you think? Well, we are talking 
about the film industry, so the 
answer is, of course, no. So let’s 
look at some classic cyberflicks 
that are guaranteed to keep you 
jacked-in at your next rave or 
computer club meeting.

---------------------------------------------------

at 6 pm at The Community of Reconciliation at th« 
comer of Fifth and Bellefield in Oakland. Admj5. 
sion is free. For more information and reservation 
call 471-7852.
Students who have taken the GRE’s will be 
able to find out their test scores a week or more 
earlier than usual by dialing an 800 number start­
ing in mid-November. Those examinees who took 
the test on October 14 in the US, Puerto Rico, or 
Canada may use the Scores-By-Phone option by 
dialing 1 (800) GRE-5056. The fee for the service is 
$10. For more information call 734-5050.
The Black Faculty and Staff Association 
(BFASA) sponsors “The Media’s Portrayal of Afri- 
can-Americans: Perception vs. Reality,” a pane! 
discussion featuring Professor Barnes of CMU and 
Edwina Kaikai of the Pittsburgh Post-Gazette 
November 15 at 7 pm in Hamerschlag Hall A13i' 
For more information call 268-2075.
South Craig Street merchants will kick off 
their Holiday Season with a light-up night celebra­
tion on November 16. Refreshments will be served 
in various locations. Gift and merchandise certifi­
cates for several of the stores will be part of a free 
raffle during the evening’s festivities. Call 682- 
6125.
Pittsburgh Center for the Arts presents Odd 
Nordrum: Recent Paintings, on exhibit from 
Octoberl3 to December 31. Nordrum’s work has 
international standing. For more information call 
361-0873.
Join the River City Brass Band for a star- 
spangled celebration of music “made in the USA” 
and a special Veteran’s Day Salute from November 
10-19. From sea to shining sea, we’ll paint a 
musical portrait of America as vibrant, colorful 
and interesting as this great land. The first concert 
plays on November 10 at 8 pm at Carson Middle 
School in North Hills. For more information call 
322-6821.
Carnegie Mellon Department of Architecture 
presents a lecture by Diane Shaw of Washington 
State University this Thursday at 4:30 pm in 
Margaret Morrison 103 (Breed Hall). For more 
information call 268-2354.The third annual Carnegie Mellon College 
Bowl Tournament will occur on November 17- 
18. Registration forms are available at the Student 
Center Information Desk. If you are interested in 
participating or for more information call 862- 
2996.
The Andy Warhol Museum hosts Arena— 
where would I have been if I had been intelli­
gent! from October 11 to February 25. The show 
exhibits work by German artist Joseph Beuys, 
featuring 264 photographs encased in 100 alumi­
num frames and three panels of handmade glass 
encircling a mixed media sculpture. For more 
information call 622-6509.
Dicesare Engler proudly welcomes Boy 
George with a special guest to Metropol, Novem­
ber 18 for a 7 pm all ages show. Tickets are $18.50. 
For more information call 747-8181.Crossing Limits is considering artwork for
the book cover of an upcoming poetry anthology. 
Art work may also be used for promotional posters, 
T-shirts, or flyers. Send photos or slides of original 
unpublished work to: Crossing Limits, P.O. Box 
“P”, 300 South Craig Street, Pittsburgh, PA. 15213. 
For more information call 421-1695.
The Forbes Gallery presents its seventh show 
of the year, The Design Exhibition, featuring 
work from all Communication and Industrial De­
sign majors; freshmen through seniors. The ex­
hibit will run from November 6-11. For more 
information call 268-2081.
The University of Pittsburgh Music Depart­
ment presents Peter Joseff on the clarinet as part 
of its Music on the Edge Series on November 14 at 
8 pm in the Frick Fine Arts Auditorium. For more 
information call 624-4126.
The Hockey Club will be playing at the Neville 
Ice Arena against the University of Pittsburgh on 
Saturday at 5:30 pm.
Kaplan Educational Center announces 
LSAT Extra Help hosted by Bob Verini, National 
LSAT Advisor and a long-time teacher. The ses­
sion will focus on PrepTest XVI. For more informa­
tion call Ann Messa at 492-5903.
Tarika brings the roots music of Madagascar
to Pittsburgh for the first time this Saturday at 8 
pm at the Carnegie Music Hall, entrance behind 
the Carnegie Library in Oakland. The concert is 
presented by Calliope, the Pittsburgh Folk Music 
Society. For more information call 687-8800.
The Carnegie Museum of Art is pleased to 
announce the onset of 1995 Carnegie Interna­
tional beginning November 5 and running through 
February 18. The exhibit was organized by the 
museum’s curator of contemporary art, Richard 
Armstrong and represents a confluence of the best 
of the moment in contemporary art worldwide.
The Women’s Basketball Team will be hosting 
the CMU TipOff Tourney on Saturday and Sun­
day. Game times are 1 and 3 pm.
The University of Pittsburgh Department of 
Music presents A Concert of Solo and Ensemble 
Guitar Music on November 28 at 8 pm in the Frick 
Fine Arts Auditorium. Admission is free. For more 
information call 361-4038.
The Men’s Basketball Teams will host the West 
Penn Classic tournament. They will play Wash­
ington & Jefferson at 8 pm on Friday and Grove 
City College at 8 pm on Saturday.
The Hewlett Gallery presents Industrial Na­
ture by sculptor Ron Klein, who lives in Jenkintown 
in Eastern PA. Klein’s sculptures will be on exhibit 
from October 30 to November 20. Admission to the 
gallery and reception is free. Call 268-3877.
The Men’s and Women’s Swim Teams will 
compete at the University of Pittsburgh on Tues­
day at 4 pm.
The Carnegie Museum of Natural History
willopen its newly renovated Hall of North Ameri­
can Wildlife on November 16. This enhancement 
complements the adjacent Hall of African Wild­
life, which opened in 1993. For more information 
call 622-3131.University of Pittsburgh Theatre presents 
Les Liaisons Dangereuses by Christopher Hamp­
ton. The show will run from November 9-18 at 8 
pm in the Stephen Foster Memorial Theatre. For 
more information call 624-PLAY .
Apple Hill Playhouse, announces the final 
play of its 1995 season, Another Antigone, a
play by A.R. Gurney, which will be staged on 
November 16—18 and 24-25 at 8 pm. The theatre is 
located on Manor Road in Delmont. Tickets are $10 
for adults and $8 for students and seniors. For 
more information call 486-3030.
The CMU Art Department Fall 1995 Lecture 
Series presents artist Howardena Pindell Novem­
ber 16 at 5 pm in Doherty Hall 2315. Lectures are 
free and open to the public. For more information 
visit our World Wide Web site, http://www- 
art.cfa.edu/.
Java Jeffs Coffee House at 2301 Murray Ave. 
has poetry readings every second and fourth Mon­
day of every month at 8:30 pm. Music nights are 
every Thursday and Friday at 8:30. No cover 
charge. Call 421-JAVA for details.
Animation Festival will be playing in DH 2210 
Thursday at 6, 8,10 pm, and midnight.The Upstairs Theatre presents My Night With 
Reg by Kevin Elyot, which will run from Novem­
ber 29 through December 17, Wednesday through 
Saturday at 8 pm, and Sunday at 3 and 7 pm. 
Tickets are $10-$18. Visa, Mastercharge, and 
American Express are accepted. For more informa­
tion call 361-5443.
The Pittsburgh Chapter of The World Feder­
alist Association presents Preventive Diplomacy; 
The Role NGOs can Play in the United Nations 
Preventative Diplomacy System with David Jack­
son, a staff member of the Quaker United Nations 
Office. Jackson will be speaking .on November 16
Nine Months will show in DH 2210 Friday at 6, 
8,10 pm, and midnight.
Crossing Limits cordially invites poets, 
friends, and families to a multi-cultural poetry 
reading at the Carnegie Library, November 15 at; 
7 pm. Admission is free. For more information call: 
421-1695.
Species will show in DH 2210 Saturday at 6, 8, 
10 pm, and midnight.
Hatchet for a Honeymoon will show in DH 2210 
Sunday at 6, 8,10 pm, and midnight.
sex is for making babies 
sex is for making babies 
sex is for making babies
I’m whizzing with tl 
door open and Uove^i
kid “mommy why did architecture die? 
mother “because no one gave a —.” 
peter a lopez
awwww, they were 
just about to show 
some close-ups of 
the rod.
Beauty #2, directedby Andy Warhol will show 
at The Andy Warhol Museum this Wednesday 
through Friday at 12:30 pm, Saturday at 3 and 
7:30 pm, and Sunday at 12:30 pm. For more 
information call 237-8300.
The Sky Socialist, a film by Ken Jacobs will 
show this Friday at 7:30 pm at the Andy Warhol 
Museum. For more information call 237-8300.
we are just babies
ah,-l . see you ve play 
knifey/spooney before.Dizzy Devil,
I miss you honey!
I can’t wait til you 
come and
visit me in 9 days!!! 
Love always,
Zeus
ahh wash mahsell 
a rag on a stick
Pittsburgh Magazine is looking for editorial 
interns. Duties would include: fact checking, re­
search, writing, and proofreading. Send cover 
letters, resumes, and/or writing portfolios to: Geor­
gia Bouzos, Pittsburgh Magazine, 4802 Fifth Ave., 
Pittsburgh, PA 15213, or call for more informa­
tion at 622-6424.
i do not have enough 
privilege to- use the 
floppy drive.
Dear Doris,
I have a crush on the guy at the info 
desk. I call him constantly. What 
should I do about this obsession? 
Hung-Up and Lonely
that’s what you get for 
playing w/your little mes­
sages right there
Dear jaded senior,
It must be something in 
the food here.
Doris
The Economic Club of Pittsburgh will spon­
sor a Career Day for local college students on 
November 14 from 7:30-11:30 am at the Hyatt 
Regency Hotel. Students are asked to RSVP 
through a flyer available at the Career Center. 
For more information call 396-6250.
Please submit Calendar and Vox Populi announcements. Deadline for entries is November 16 by 
5pm. Announcements should be 20 words or less. Drop them off at The Tartan office in the Student 
Center Room 104, send to The Tartan Box 17, or email sv2f.
graphics by Alice Mensch, Special to the Tartan
