TUESDAYHi 49/Lo 39
WEDNESDAY
THURSDAY
FRIDAY
Carnegie Mellon’s Student Newspaper Since igo6
Hi 69/Lo 47
Volume 95, Issue 6THE TARTAN
www.thetartan.org9 October 2000Heinz School beg search for new deins ean
by Clinton Brownley
Junior Staffwriter
After seven years as the dean of 
the Heinz School, Mark Hamlet 
became Provost of Carnegie 
Mellon University. Now, the Heinz 
School must appoint a new dean 
by August 1, 2001.
The Heinz School has been rec­
ognized for its research in areas 
such as information technology, 
organizational behavior, crime, 
unemployment and welfare, edu­
cation, economic development, 
and health policy. The school 
looks to educate future policy 
makers and managers. According 
to Denise Rousseau, the H.J. 
Heinz II professor of organization­
al behavior and public policy and 
chair of the Heinz School dean 
Search Committee, the school is 
looking for a Dean who will con­
tinue to develop these concentra­
tions and motives.
“We seek a dean who will build 
on the Heinz School’s strengths in 
problem-oriented research and 
innovative educational . pro­
grams,” said Rousseau. 
Developing a plan for the dean 
search, the Search Committee ini­
tially met and brainstormed to 
identify challenges for the Heinz 
school, discussed the school’s 
growth, and organized and con­
solidated the school’s strengths to 
maintain the school’s excellence. 
The Search Committee then con­
sulted with the deans of other 
schools, fellow faculty members, 
and Heinz School alumni to 
receive feedback about possible 
Dean candidates.
In addition to discussions with 
members of the Carnegie Mellon 
community, the Search
Committee designed a confiden­
tial email address, heinz-
deansearch@and.rew.cmu.edu, 
where, until October 31, people in 
the Pittsburgh community can 
post a nomination for the Heinz
School Dean. The nominations 
received by email are only accessi­
ble to search committee members.
The group is seeking candidates 
from outside as well as inside 
Carnegie Mellon, according to 
Rousseau. They are also looking 
for student input into the deci­
sion.
By November, the Search 
Committee will have a narrowed 
down list of candidates. By 
January or February, the commit­
tee hope to conduct talks external 
and internal to Carnegie Mellon 
University about those candi­
dates.
After finishing discussions with- 
several Pittsburgh and Carnegie 
Mellon community members, the 
Search Committee will review all 
of the dean candidate nomina­
tions. Carnegie Mellon communi­
ty members will have an opportu­
nity to evaluate and rank the can­
didates. Finally, the Search 
Committee will present the 
ordered list of candidates to the 
University President, Jared 
Cohon, and Provost Mark Kamlet, 
who will make the authoritative 
decision.
Until the new Dean is named, 
Linda Babcock, the James Mellon 
Walton professor of economics at 
the school, has been named inter­
im dean. In addition to her 
administrative and teaching 
schedule, Dr. Babcock has met 
with faculty members to develop 
and establish some priorities for 
her administration.
Dr. Babcock and the Heinz 
School faculty take seriously the 
importance of interdisciplinary 
problem solving. “We are review­
ing our masters program curricu- 
lums to ensure that our depart­
ments integrate into their own 
discipline problem solving strate­
gies from other disciplines”, says 
Dr. Babcock.
Heinz School faculty members 
See HEINZ, page A7
CMU nears decision on Intel moving into UC
by Ish Harshawat
Editor-In-Chief 
& Sara Stille
News Editor
Although nothing has yet been finalized, the 
University and Intel are nearing an agreement to 
allow the Intel Solution Center to be temporari­
ly housed in the University Center basement.
“We’re still exploring how this fits in with 
University interests,” said Jeff Bolton, CMU vice 
president for Business and Planning.
Several issues have been raised in discussions 
with the community. “Dominant concerns have 
included, signage, security, parking, use of the 
UC space, construction impact, internship avail­
ability, and assurance about departure date,” 
said Michael Murphy, the dean of Student 
Affairs, who added that from his perspective 
opinion has been positively balanced towards 
the solution center.
Cate Anderson, Business Development 
Manager for Intel, last week said that she felt 
that such issues as internship availability would
probably not be in the written agreement. 
Murphy and Bolton, however, said that such 
issues should be in writing in some form or 
another.
“We will certainly have these issues in writ­
ing,” said Murphy. “Whether that is part of the 
immediate contract or a separate memorandum 
of understanding doesn’t concern me, but I don’t 
want either side to have any confusion whatso­
ever about expectations.”
According to Bolton, there will be eight full­
time Intel employees, who in turn will take up 
eight parking spaces. These issues, along with 
the possibility of construction disruptions and 
inappropriate signage are still issues that must 
be addressed before the agreement can be 
signed.
“Eight parking spaces may not seem like a big 
deal at first, but when you think about it, there 
are already lots of students without a place to 
park and this is just adding to the problem. 
Overall, though, I don’t really think parking will 
be one of the big issues in the decision,” said 
Anita Shen, a junior electrical and computer 
engineering major.
Besides parking concerns, the move would 
also take up space in the basement that could go 
to student organizations. WRCT and various 
buggy organizations have showed interest in 
using the basement due to a shortage of storage 
space.
“I feel that the administration should think of 
the students'first and realize that an 80 year tra­
dition is in jeopardy because the school needs 
space. It is completely understandable that our 
growing school and the University needs space 
and must re-obtain it from buggy organizations; 
however, if there is space in our University 
Center, the students and buggy should have the 
opportunity to move in first rather than an out­
side corporate establishment,” said Due Nguyen, 
a junior mathematical science major and SDC 
buggy chair. “The only major benefit for letting a 
large corporation onto our campus is for 
increased revenue, neglecting the fact that the 
reason this school exists is for the students. I 
would personally like to see the space go to the 
students and buggy.”
Amaury Rolin, the WRCT General Manager, 
See INTEL, page A5
Shaina McGrath/Assistant Photo Editor
Last Sunday, students braved the cold weather to participate in a cricket game in Gesling Stadium. Although it is only early October, onlookers were forced 
to bundle up in their winter clothes to watch the game due to cold temperatures.
Campus Police release crime statistics report
by Cory Tong
Junior Staffwriter
Despite a general reduction in 
the amount of crime reported on 
campus, this year has already been 
marked by several significant 
criminal issues. Students have 
been warned about the serial 
rapist, bike theft, and various 
forms of vandalism.
The latest campus police crime 
statistics report shows that there 
has been an increasing trend in lar­
ceny theft, excluding motor vehi­
cle theft. The number of larceny 
reports has risen from 275 in 1997, 
to 359 in 1998, and 404 in 1999. 
Vandalism has also gone up from 
57 in 1997 to 87 in 1998 and 109 in
1999. There were also two report­
ed cases of arson in 1999, which is
up from zero cases in 1997 and 
1998.
“Carnegie Mellon continues to 
be a safe environment. The num­
ber of alcohol and other drug relat­
ed offenses have continually 
decreased over the past four years 
as have acts of vandalism and dis­
orderly conduct,” said Paul Fowler, 
the assistant dean of Student 
Affairs.
The number of thefts around 
campus remain a source of con­
cern- said Fowler. “Every morning 
when I read the police reports, 
there is at least one stolen bike, or 
book bag, or laptop. What is most 
frustrating is that in almost all 
cases, the item stolen was left 
unattended or unsecured — the 
exception being the bicycles,” he 
said.
The numbers for murder and
manslaughter still remain at zero 
and reported cases of drug abuse 
and liquor violation have 
decreased. Rape and sexual 
assault cases, the cases fall 
between one and two in the past 3 
years. Campus Police notes that 
this tends to be an underreported 
crime.
There are currently around 21- 
armed officers and 25 security 
guards patrolling the campus area. 
In addition to that, there are 34 
emergency phone booths that stu­
dents are encouraged to use if they 
ever approach a crime or are vic­
timized themselves.
“When someone sees a crime, 
there is a big delay in reporting the 
incident. Instead, we encourage 
people to get a good look at the 
[criminal] and call immediately; 
which will increase the chances of
CMU Arrest Statistics
8o
70
6o
50 
40 
30
20 
10
o
J liquor law violations 
H drug abuse violations 
H weapons possessions violations
199719981999
Michael Castellana/Photo Staff
arresting the person and bringing 
him/her to justice,” said Sergeant 
William Ricci of Campus Police.
Some students feel a little inse­
cure about on-campus safety. “All 
you hear about before coming to 
Pittsburgh is how safe the city is. 
Then, right when you arrive on 
campus, you see all these bright 
posters warning about some rapist 
out there. You begin to wonder just 
how safe the school and communi­
ty really is,” said Christina Malino, 
a first-year MCS student.
The University has recently 
made several moves to make stu­
dents on campus feel safer. These 
include the Escort Service, a bike 
patrol, and cooperation with other 
Pittsburgh police forces. Escort 
Service, which came into effect in 
the spring of 1996, is also available 
to any member of the Carnegie 
Mellon community. Dispatch offi­
cers can help them get from dorms 
to academic buildings at late 
hours. The four pickup locations 
are at Morewood Gardens E-tower 
parking lot, Margaret Morrison 
Plaza, GSIA at Tech/Frew streets 
and Porter Hall at lower Frew 
street.
“Campus Police does an excep­
tional job of patrolling the campus, 
but they need all members of the 
community to look out for each 
other. The University continues to 
place safety and security as a top 
priority,” said Fowler.
He also said that the immediate 
posting of crime alerts by Campus 
Police has become a good' 
reminder to the community to be 
mindful of safety concerns; the 
improvement of lighting and 
access across campus has reduced 
the risk of on-campus crimes; and 
the introduction of the Police bike 
patrol now allows officers to 
access more areas of campus in a 
more timely manner. According to 
Fowler, members of the Student 
Life Office, the Dean of Students 
Office, and Campus Police meet 
weekly to review incidents on cam­
pus and to formulate appropriate 
responses to enhance the safety of 
all members of campus.
E-commerce takes role 
in bookstore’s services
by Jen Resick
Staffwriter
The University Bookstore is 
changing the way they communi­
cate with suppliers and customers 
by moving towards the ever-grow­
ing e-commerce industry. This year 
the bookstore began to implement 
greater electronic contact with fac­
ulty and they soon hope increase 
online services to students.
According to bookstore staff, the 
duty of processing faculty textbook 
requisitions has always been a cum­
bersome procedure. Faculty had to 
fill out a three-part form and return 
it to the Bookstore for sorting. This 
year, for the first time, faculty were 
able to submit their requisitions 
online. This proved a much more 
efficient method of submission for 
everyone involved and about eighty 
percent of faculty took advantage
of the online network. One of the 
many benefits of this online form 
offers is a faculty usage history 
enabling professors to check the 
titles and amounts of texts they had 
previously ordered.
Neil Binstock, Assistant Vice 
President of Business Services said 
the Bookstore is striving to order 
more books sooner, enabling them 
to get the best possible prices. “The 
best scenario for students occurs 
when faculty get their requisitions in 
on time and students get the highest 
possible buy-back value,” said 
Binstock. The bookstore-must know 
what books will be reused in order 
to give students the highest buy­
back prices, this is why on time req­
uisitions are so imperative. “We are 
currently striving to increase the 
used book percentage, right now 
nineteen to twenty percent of all 
textbooks on the shelves are used, 
See BOOKSTORE, page A7
INSIDE THE TARTAN
Forum
Sean Mintus lightens up and 
discusses perceptions of Greek 
life. Also, decide for yourself: is 
the fence an attractive addition 
to campus or an eyesore? 
page A8
Sports
CMU men's soccer is on a roll, 
taking two UAA victories last 
weekend, 
page A14
Arts & Living
Cultures of all sizes and shapes 
visit the CMU campus this week, 
page B1
Science & Technology
Learn about the Cassiopeia 
and other new products, 
page B4
Entertainment
Does Radiohead's new Kid A 
deserve an A+? 
page B7

---------------------------------------------------

A2THE TARTAN • OCTOBER 9, 2000
RE+
UN OKs excessive force resolution
UNITED NATIONS (AP) — With 
the United States abstaining, the 
Security Council approved a resolu­
tion Saturday condemning the 
“excessive use of force” that has left 
over 80 Palestinians dead.
In the bitterly fought-over resolu­
tion demanded by the Palestinians, 
the council called for an immediate 
resumption of Israeli-Palestinian 
peace talks and backed “a speedy, 
and objective inquiry” into the 
fighting.
The council also said it deplores 
the “provocation” at Jerusalem’s 
holiest shrine on September 28 and 
the violence that followed, a clear 
reference to the visit to the site by^ 
right-wing Israeli politician Ariel 
Sharon.
The Palestinians say Sharon’s 
visit to the site, which is holy to 
both Muslims and Jews, sparked 
the violence. Israel says Sharon had 
a right to visit the compound — 
known to Jews as the Temple 
Mount and Muslims as Haram as- 
Sharif — and blames the 
Palestinians for the wave of vio­
lence.
The resolution called for an 
immediate cessation of violence 
and steps to be taken to ensure 
“that further provocative action is 
avoided.”
U.S. negotiators and supporters 
of the Palestinians reached agree­
ment on the text after three days of 
marathon negotiations and the per­
sonal intervention of U.S. President 
Bill Clinton.
Clinton personally asked for a 
delay in the vote early Saturday 
after a final draft resolution was 
offered that the United States said
it had little choice but to veto.
When council president Martin 
Andjaba of Namibia called for the 
vote and asked those in favor to 
raise their hands, U.S. Ambassador 
Richard Holbrooke mistakenly put 
his hand up briefly, to laughter 
from other ambassadors in the 
Security Council chamber. 
Holbrooke, who was up all night 
negotiating, smiled and seconds 
later raised his hand to abstain, 
making the final vote 14-0-1.
Holbrooke said the “tough deci­
sion” to abstain was taken at the 
highest levels because the Clinton 
administration believes it will be 
better able to serve U.S. national 
interests and deal with the “great 
dangers that exist in the region of 
the Middle East today.”
Israel’s U.N. Ambassador Yehuda 
Lancry called it “the final product 
of a series of draft resolutions 
which were more unbalanced and 
more one-sided.”
But the Palestinian U.N. observ­
er, Nasser Al-Kidwa, said the reso­
lution contains “extremely impor­
tant elements,” including the con­
demnation of violence and the 
implicit references to Israel’s exces­
sive use of force and Sharon’s 
provocation.
The United States initially tried 
to head off the resolution altogeth­
er, that any council action would 
only jeopardize delicate peace 
negotiations, which are under way 
to try to end the bloodshed and sal­
vage the peace process.
Washington has traditionally 
tried to keep Mideast issues outside 
of the council domain.
But the Palestinians persisted,Disabled woman eyes Miss America crown
ATLANTIC CITY, N.J. (AP) — 
The first woman with a visible dis- 
ablity to seek the Miss America 
crown wants judges to consider her 
disability only as an afterthought, if 
at all.
“I hope the judges look at me as a 
normal human being who’s done a 
lot despite a disability,” says Miss 
Iowa Theresa Uchytil, a 24-year-old 
baton twirler born without a left 
hand.
“I’m a world champion baton 
twirler. I graduated from Iowa 
State University. I’m a program 
manager for Gateway Computers. 
That didn’t all happen because I 
have a disability.
“I hope the judges look at me that 
way, too, to see what I can do. I’d 
rather have them say, ‘Oh, by the 
way, she doesn’t have her left 
hand.’"
Uchytil won’t wear her prosthetic 
hand when she performs her baton-
twirling routine at Convention 
Hall. She wore it during last week’s 
welcoming ceremony for the 51 
contestants but won’t during her 
evening gown appearance in the 
Miss America Pageant on Oct. 14.
Uchytil, of the Des Moines sub­
urb of Urbandale, Iowa, took up the 
baton at age 6. She uses her left 
arm and elbow to catch and flip the 
baton but throws it exclusively with 
her right hand.
She is a national spokeswoman 
for the Shrine Hospital for 
Children, but says she isn’t defined 
by her handicap.
“It’s something I’ve lived with for 
24 years,” she said. “This, to me, is 
like wearing contact lenses or hav­
ing braces.”
Her breezy attitude came 
through at Monday’s welcoming 
ceremony, when each of the contes­
tants was asked to give an introduc­
tory statement.
Corrections & Clarifications
The Tartan corrects all known errors of fact. If you know of an error; please contact Editor-in-Chief Ish Harshawat 
atx8-2111 or tartan@andrew.cmu.edu.
WE NEED YOU!!!!
RESIDENCE HALL NIGHT CLERK POSITIONS AVAILABLE IMMEDIATELY
SERVE YOUR FELLOW STUDENTS 
4 HOUR SHIFTS
MIDNIGHT TO 8 AM (GRAVEYARD)
EARN $8.00 PER HOUR
WORK STUDY PREFERRED BUT NOT REQUIRED
Applications available in the Office of Housing Services, 
Morewood Gardens E Tower 
or email amberk@andrew.cmu.edu for more information.
Carnegie Mellon
National News
and on Thursday the council began 
negotiating a draft resolution sub­
mitted by Malaysia on behalf of the 
Non-Aligned Movement of mostly 
developing nations.
Over the course of three days, the 
United States negotiated changes to 
the draft that removed an explicit 
condemnation of Israeli security 
forces.
Elsewhere Saturday, Palestinian 
protesters hurled stones and fire­
works at a synagogue in the west­
ern German city of Essen in a 
demonstration against Israeli vio­
lence. Police said about 60 people 
were arrested.
Around 300 demonstrators 
marched through the center of the 
city during the day.
Police in the Swedish capital, 
Stockholm, said demonstrators 
threw stones at officers outside the 
Israeli embassy. About 200 demon­
strators later marched to the U.S. 
embassy shouting “Clinton murder­
er, Barak murderer,” the Swedish 
news agency TT said.
Peaceful demonstrations also 
took place in a number of other 
German cities and in Rome.
Also Saturday, the European 
Union criticized the sacking of an 
Israeli enclave in occupied 
Palestinian territory called Joseph’s 
Tomb. A statement from the EU 
said the body “condemns without 
reserve” Saturday’s events in the 
West Bank town of Nablus, where 
Palestinian gunmen and civilians 
stormed the Israeli enclave, ripping 
apart sacred Hebrew texts and set­
ting fire to parts of the compound 
just hours after Israeli troops evac­
uated the site.
Uchytil walked up the micro­
phone and asked her fellow contes­
tants to keep an eye out for the 
prosthetic.
“If you see one lying around, it’s 
probably mine,” she said.
Pageant officials say she is the 
first woman with such a disability 
ever to compete in the 79-year-old 
pageant. The only woman with a 
disability to win the crown was 
Miss America 1995 Heather 
Whitestone, who was deaf.
Miss America 1999 Nicole 
Johnson suffered from diabetes 
and competed while wearing an 
insulin pump hidden on her hip. 
Other contestants through the 
years have had medical problems 
that weren’t outwardly apparent.
“I’m not here to say every person 
with a disability should compete for 
Miss America or run for office. But 
I’m a shining example of what you 
can do.”
TN couple sues over pickle burn
KNOXVILLE, Tenn. (AP) — A 
woman who claims she was per­
manently scarred after a hot pick­
le from a McDonald’s hamburger 
fell on her chin is suing the 
restaurant for over $100,000.
Veronica M. Martin claims in a 
lawsuit filed in Knox County 
Circuit Court that the bum also 
caused her physical and mental 
pain. She is seeking $110,000. 
Her husband, Darrin Martin, is 
seeking $15,000, because he “has 
been deprived of the services and 
consortium of his wife.”
The hamburger “was in a 
defective condition or unreason­
ably dangerous to the general 
consumer and in particular to 
(Veronica Martin),” according to 
the two-page lawsuit, which was 
reported in The Knoxville News- 
Sentinel on Saturday.
Representatives with Mar Inc.,
owner of the McDonald’s fran­
chise, did not return a telephone 
call from the newspaper.
The lawsuit says the Martins 
bought hamburgers at the 
McDonald’s on October 6,1999.
“While attempting to eat the 
hamburger, the pickle dropped 
from the hamburger- onto her 
chin,” the lawsuit reads. “The pick­
le was extremely hot and burned 
the chin of (Mrs. Martin).”
Mrs. Martin had second-degree 
burns and is permanently scarred, 
according to the lawsuit.
US grad student numbers drop
(U-WIRE) ITHACA, N.Y. — As 
more Americans opt to go directly 
into business rather than graduate 
school, fearing they will miss out on 
the current economic boom, inter­
national students are increasingly 
seeking graduate degrees in the 
United States.
This is not a new trend, according 
to Hilary Ford, assistant dean of the 
graduate school, the Johnson 
Graduate School of Management 
and director of graduate admis­
sions. She confirmed, however, that 
the state of the economy is the pri­
mary factor in determining the 
rates of American versus interna­
tional applicants to graduate pro­
grams.
“When the economy is very good, 
many Americans are not consider­
ing further education after their 
bachelor’s degree. The majority go 
directly into the workforce, but 
when you have a poor economy, 
there are fewer openings and many 
feel if they had more qualifications 
they could find better jobs,” Ford 
said.
While this recent trend is as pre­
dictable as having a cyclic economy, 
she said that because of the current 
economic boom, “it seems the best 
students who might have pursued 
graduate school are [also] going 
straight into the work force.”
World News
Yugoslavia swears in new President
BELGRADE, Yugoslavia (AP) 
— With the army behind him and 
Slobodan Milosevic wishing him 
well, Vojislav Kostunica appears 
free to take his presidential oath 
and begin leading Yugoslavia out 
of a decade of war and turmoil 
and into a welcoming Europe.
A day after angry protesters 
ousted his regime, a wan 
Milosevic addressed the Yugoslav 
people in a televised speech, con­
ceding he had lost Sept. 24 presi­
dential elections.
“I congratulate Mr. Kostunica 
on his electoral victory and I wish 
much success to all citizens of 
Yugoslavia,” Milosevic said.
The speech seemed to signal 
that the Yugoslav president had 
abandoned hope of preventing 
Kostunica from taking office, 
which could happen by Saturday.
Hours after Milosevic’s 
address, the army’s chief of staff, 
Nebojsa Pavkovic, also congratu­
lated Kostunica, and indicated 
the military would obey the new 
political authority. Yugoslavia’s 
high court had also named 
Kostunica the election winner 
and powerful Yugoslav ally 
Russia offered its support earlier 
in the day.
In his speech, Milosevic said he 
wanted to take a break before 
returning to political life. As an 
indicted war criminal, he has lit­
tle chance of seeking asylum 
abroad and has no choice but to 
try to reach an accommodation 
with the new government.
“I intend to rest a bit and spend 
some more time with my family 
and especially with my grandson, 
Marko, and after that to help my 
party gain force and contribute to
future prosperity,” he said.
The concession prompted bursts 
of fire and wild honking of car 
horns in the streets of Belgrade, 
where tens of thousands kept up 
celebrations that began Thursday 
in the wake of a tumultuous upris­
ing against 13 years of Milosevic’s 
autocratic rule.
When the violence subsided, it 
was clear that control belonged to 
Kostunica.
But some anti-Milosevic leaders, 
like Zoran Djindjic, reacted to the 
president’s remarks with caution.
“I don’t trust him,” Djindjic said. 
“I think he is preparing positions for 
a stab in the back by consolidating 
police, creating chaos and return­
ing to power with a strong hand.”
Milosevic is blamed by the West 
for starting — and then losing — 
four Balkan wars which broke out 
in the last decade when parts of 
Yugoslavia began to seek indepen­
dence. Those conflicts were marked 
by horrific acts of violence against 
civilians, which prompted Western 
governments to impose sanctions 
and isolate Belgrade.
Pavkovic, a former Milosevic 
crony, claimed that Kostunica will 
help “overcome all the remaining 
problems in a civilized way and 
return the country to normalcy,” 
Tanjug news agency reported.
He also pledged that the army 
will carry its duties according to the 
constitution.
In recent days, both the United 
States and the European Union 
have said they will begin to lift 
sanctions as the new democratic 
administration takes the reins.
“This is great news,” Secretary of 
State Madeleine Albright said 
about Kostunica’s apparent victory, 
calling it “very, very important.”
French President Jacques Chirac 
invited Kofetunica to join leaders 
from the 15 EU nations at a summit 
on Oct. 13-14. It could offer
Kostunica a opportunity to seek for­
eign investment and other aid.
But returning Yugoslavia to nor­
mal footing may pose its own 
dilemmas. The sanctions and years 
of Balkan warfare have left the 
economy in ruins. Last year’s 78- 
day NATO bombardment ham­
mered an already creaky trans­
portation and utility network.
Kostunica was putting together a 
stopgap crisis committee to try to 
stabilize the country. Somehow he 
will also have to work with close 
Milosevic allies, such as Serbian 
President Milan Milutinovic.
Like Milosevic, Milutinovic was 
indicted by the international war 
crimes tribunal for the offensive 
against ethnic Albanians in Kosovo. 
Kostunica could come under strong 
Western pressure to turn over 
indicted war criminals.TV team discovers new section of Berlin Wall
BERLIN (AP) — The remains of 
the largest tunnel under the Berlin 
Wall, used as an illegal route from 
east to west, have been unearthed, 
the weekly news magazine Der 
Spiegel reported Saturday.
The wooden supports for what 
was known as Tunnel 29 were dis­
covered by a team from Spiegel TV 
during research for a documentary.
The tunnel was built by volun­
teers - mostly West Berlin students 
— the year after the wall went up. 
It was 413 feet long and almost 20 
feet below the wall, ending in the 
cellar of a house in East Berlin.
The tunnel was closed after 29 
people escaped to the west on Sept. 
14,1962, because it was flooded by 
a broken water pipe.
¦Der Spiegel said people who took 
part in the escape helped locate the 
remains of the tunnel.
Coffee is great for studying... but not for your smile!
TEETH CLEANING
$
39
New Patients Only. An $80 value.
Includes basic cleaning, bitewing x-rays, gum evaluation, exam, and 
consultation. Addt'l cleaning may be required in the presence of 
gum disease.
UNIVERSITY
DENTAL CAREJohn W. Hart, D.D.S.
681-8011
200 N. Craig Street 
Take the CMU Shuttle
TEETH WHITENING
199
Our lowest price ever! A $400 value.
¦ Upper and Lower Custom Trays
¦ Results in just a few days!!
? 10% Courtesy for CMU Students and Faculty 
? Prompt Emergency Care ? Interest-Free Financing

---------------------------------------------------

. ¦ V' _ -
November 15. 19001903-192219041908191219141917-1918Andrew Carnegie founds the Carnegie Technical Schools with $ I million endowment Three years later, the city of Pittsburgh provides 32-acre she.
Arthur A. Hamerschlag’s presidencyHenry Hornbostel wins competition to design six original campus buildings for School of Science & Technology, School of Fine and Aj Arts, School forAppi and Journeymen, an c Margaret Morrison School for Women.
The Charter Oass graduates: 54 Carnegie Technical
receive certificates in engineering; Schools becomes Carnegiefour in architecture. Institute ofTechnologywith power to confer degrees.
The first master's degree is conferred (Architecture).The College of Fine Arts offers the nation’s first undergraduate degree in drama.
Tech becomes military encampment 8,000 soldiers on campus at height
.1993-19.93 .1.996.1997Pittsburgh government and business leaders ask President Mehrabian to head initiative to revitalize the region’s economy, forging productive collaborations among constituents.
19 92SUPA is renamed the H.John Heinz III School of Public Policy and Management
1990-1997Robert Mehrabian’s presidency
1988Mellon Institute—the applied research arm—is renamed Carnegie Mellon Research Institute (CMRI) and later moves to the Pittsburgh Technology Center.
1988The School of Computer Science (SCS) is founded.
1984The Software Engineering Institute (SEI) is established.
The Office ofTechnology Transfer is created to help license emerging technology and its applications, generating millions in revenue.
The University Center, Carnegie Mellon’s first true gathering place for students, faculty, staff, alumni and visitors, opens.
Roberts Engineering Hall, a Centennial Campaign building priority to enable greater interdis­ciplinary collaboration among researchers, scientists and industry, is completed.
I 1982IBM partners with Carnegie Mellon to establish the Information Technology Center and the landmark Andrew computer network.
Jliquolraw vltnwlsn
Another Centennial Campaign building priority, the Purnell Center for the Arts contains a grand new theater, studio theater and television studio, as well as the Regina Gouger Miller Gallery.
2000Centennial Campaign raises $350 million for endowed professorships and scholarships, major new building projects and key initiatives in research and education.
arnegie Mellon
Carnegie Mellon celebrates its 100th anniversary
THE OFFICIAL
Carnegie Mellon
1972-I990Richard M. Cyert’s presidency
1972Andrew Carnegie Society begins.Twenty-five years later, it has raised $ 100 million for scholarships and other programs.
1970The College of Engineering and Science becomes Carnegie Institute ofTechnology (CIT) and Mellon College of Science (MCS).
1968A grant of $10 million from the R.K. Mellon Foundation establishes the School of Urban and Public Affairs (SUPA).
2-5 p.m. Friday, Oct. 20 
Kirr Commons,
University Center
University offices will close at 2 p.m. 
Get your FREE T-Shirt!
Sponsored by TIAA-CREF
CARNECIE MELLON S TURNING 100!
1968The College of Humanities and Social Sciences (H&SS) is founded.
1967Carnegie Institute ofTechnology and Mellon Institute join to form Carnegie Mellon University.
1965A grant of $5 million from R. K. Mellon Foundation marks the beginning of the Department of Computer Science.
1917Applied Psychology Department conducts first significant research project devising tests for classifying military personnel.
1917Two architecture students build a shanty to sell food on campus. Students call it "Skibo."
1920The first doctor’s degree is conferred (Engineering).
a
1921Carnegie Corporation grants $400,000 for a gymnasium and $7.6 million for the endowmentTwenty-five years later, it adds another $8 million to the endowment with a matching $4 million from Tech donors.
1922-1935Thomas S. Baker'spresidency
1933President Baker invites three distinguished scientists to flee Nazi Germany to establish research labs with support from foundations and industry—the seeds of Tech's research tradition.
1936-1950Robert E. Doherty's presidency
1939President Doherty introduces the Carnegie Plan for Profes­sional Education, a landmark approach to education that still shapes the university’s distinctive curricula today.
1943R. K. Mellon appoints President Doherty first chair of the Allegheny Conference on Community Development Pittsburgh Mayor David L Lawrence said Doherty was "one of the persons most respon­sible for the community re-awakening which has taken place in Pittsburgh in recent years.”
1959The Court of Common Pleas permits Carnegie Tech to establish ' a Board ofTrustees, independent 
. from the Carnegie museum,1956
mâÆpaving the wayfor the growth of a nationalThe first computer arrives on campus—an IBM 650—in the1950-1965 11965-1971H. Guyford Stever's presidencyresearch university.basement of GSIA.

---------------------------------------------------

CORPORATIONlolunanm. MAYAVIZ p*™»
!l 1111i\(JL¡[riyourfit.com
eSite
Technology Entrepreneurship
presents
i n c.
SFINNAREI
7053WEND3Wsor t w a i i
woo
! Reactivity
ûirectShiffâ
JB TI DE POI NT,7 ä _____
vmware
9Vtvidence~
8o6E-E
TECHNOLOGIES
SmartOps
STARTUP JOB FAIR 2000
Jump Start Your Life!
Keynote Speaker: President Cohon 
9:00 AM October 13 Rangos 
Hot Companies looking for Cool People
October 13, 2000 
University Center Gymnasium 
10:00 am - 5:00 pm
8o66E 
Recourse
rumken.co0.
o' tâurel .,
networks
www.esite-cmu.org
ZAXEL
INTERACTIVE STREAMING REAL-TIME VIDEO, VIRTUAL VIEWPOINT 
TECHNOLOGY, VIDEO CAPTURE, AND VIDEO fcOMPRESSJON
Sponsored by:
College
Brience
TimeSys Corporation
Real Time...Real Solutions.rtflMuniAuction Um&MteTlio ÍV, Unni.:.,,! linn A V V ^ V \ ^ f TT W V< V
(0). STißrtomesteacf M||ítíMKthciit»cofr
istestway for you to build a FREE
lie MMuikhd Bonlkclm Me
OCTOBER IS CANCER AWARENESS MONTH
FOR WOMEN ONLY
Breast cancer is of the leading causes of death among women in the USA. One of 
every nine American women will develop breast cancer during her lifetime.
Factors that increase a woman's risk for breast cancer are; a positive family history 
in a mother or a sister, menstruation at an early age, late menopause, childless­
ness, first pregnancy after age 30, radiation exposure, a high fat diet, obesity and 
moderate or greater alcohol consumption. If detected early, breast cancer has an 
excellent chance for cure. That is why monthly self-breast exams are so important
¦ In addition to self examination, you should see your health care provider for a 
routine check-up, including a breast exam, at least one a year.
"Self Breast Examination (cut out and tape on bathroom mirror)
Breast self exams should be performed at the same time each month. The best 
time is 3 or 4 days after the monthly period has ended, when the breasts are least 
tender and swollen. If you are taking birth control pills you should examine your 
breasts on the day you start your new pack of pills.
Begin the exam by standing before a mirror and inspecting the breasts with arms 
at your sides and then over your head.
Then place your hands on your hips 
and tighten your chest and atm 
muscles. Observe for any asymmetry 
of the breasts, masses, or dimpling of 
skin.
The remainder of the exam can be 
performed in the bath or shower or 
while lying down on your back. Place 
your right hand behind your head.
With your left hand move the pads of 
your fingers over the entire right breast 
in small circular motions beginning at 
the outer most portion of your breast 
and making circles inward towards the
nipple. Be sure and examine all portions of your breast including the armpit and 
nipple. Gently squeeze the nipple to see if any fluid comes out. Repeat the proce­
dure for the other breast.
Most lumps will be non-cancerous, however, see your health care provider for any 
lumps that last over a month or for any nipple discharge.
A monthly breast self examination should be a lifetime habit as it is one of the best 
ways to screen for the early stages of breast cancer.
•Reprinted from contemporary Pediatrics - 7/85
The Student Health Service and Division of Student Affairs
For more information, call Student Health Services at 268-2157
FOR MEN ONLY
Testicular cancer is one of the leading causes of death in males between 15 and 35 
years of age. It is a relatively rare cancer and the etiology is unknown. The inci­
dence in young men is approximately 23 in 100,000 males.
There is an increased risk of developing testicular cancer in an individual with a 
history of undescended testicle or an inquinal hernia in childhood.
If testicular cancer is detected early, it is almost 100% curable. That is why testicu­
lar self-examinations are so important.
'Testicular self-examination (cut out and tape on bathroom mirror)
¦ Examine your testicles at least once a menth while you are in the shower.
• Roll each testicle between the thumb and first three fingens until the entire sur­
face has been covered. The testicles should feel round and smooth, like hard- 
boiled eggs.
• Be on the lookout for lumps, irregularities, a change in the size of the testicle, or 
a dragging sensation. All of these are possible signs of a tumor. If you find any of 
them, consult your health care provider at once. Remember, you need to exam­
ine only the testicles themselves, not the sperm tubes or blood vessels that are 
also in the scrotum.
• Pick a regular day of the month that is easy to remember to examine your tes­
ticles. Do the examination more frequently if you prefer.
Testicular cancer is a rare killer of young men. But when it takes so little to protect 
yourself — just half a minute a month — it makes sense to do this simple examina­
tion.
•Reprinted from contemporary Pediatrics - 7/85
The Student Health Service and Division of Student Affairs 
For more information, call Student Health Services at 268-2157

---------------------------------------------------

THE TARTAN • OCTOBER 9, 2000
University may allow Intel to have presence on campus with move into UC
Emily Gensheiner/Photo Staff
The UC basenent is currently being used mostly as a random storage area, as shown above. 
Many studerts and organizations are now looking for the space to be renovated.
Rolin. “I do realize, though, that it isn’t the 
most kosher thing. There seems to be a lot 
of commercial organizations out there, but 
a limit to the expansion and influence of 
student organizations. There’s something 
wrong with that.” ^
Murphy and Bolton have said that there 
has not been enough money to renovate 
the basement space.
Although discussions about the solution 
center have been going on for several 
months, students were not notified about it 
until last week. When asked why this hap­
pened, Murphy said that the University 
wanted to make sure the plan was feasible 
before discussing it with the community. 
“With any initiative of this type, you first
said that the student radio station has been 
INTEL, from page A1
interested in using some of the UC base- 
mentlspate for storage, but hasn’t made 
any fdrmal motions to obtain the space.
Rolin laid that they designed their station 
expect ng to need to expand within 10 
years, ut, after only four years, they have 
alread outgrown their space. “Intel’s 
move ijto the basement might actually be a 
bonus br us. Right now the space that we 
are looting at is unfinished and would cost 
the University too much money to com­
plete, bit Intel’s move into the area might 
make u possible for us to eventually 
expand ifter they have renovated it,” said
University bookstore 
mdves services online
explore it to see if it is viable on its face. If 
it is not, then there is no need to have 
broader discussion,” he said. He added 
that he is currently in contact with faculty 
senate, student government, and the presi­
dential and university advisory councils to 
address any concerns. “I think this has 
been the right process, though there is no 
question it has moved quickly and in a 
somewhat compressed fashion,” said 
Murphy.
“[The center] fits with CMU’s tradition 
of being friendly with industry,” said James 
Morris, dean of the School of Computer 
Science. SCS, according to Bolton, was 
where the idea of an involved partnership, 
in the form of the solution center, started 
with Intel. Morris pointed out that 18 years 
ago IBM funded the creation of the Andrew 
File System. In addition to paying salaries 
for CMU researchers, the money that came 
to CMU from IBM eventually helped fund 
the construction of Cyert Hall.
In much the same way, the solution cen­
ter would lead to usable space in the UC 
basement. However, Morris said he does 
not think major projects like Andrew will 
come out of the solution center, which is 
not related to Intel’s main chip-manufac­
turing business, but rather focuses on e- 
commerce solutions.
Intel, which donates more money to 
CMU than any other university, funds 
research for both the Electrical and 
Computer Engineering department and 
SCS. When asked whether having Intel on 
campus would create conflict of interests 
for the University, Morris again pointed out 
CMU’s involvement with IBM. He said that 
at the time there was a great amount of 
concern from the community that every­
one would be using IBM systems only. “It 
never happened. The first thing that 
[CMU] bought with [IBM] money were 
Sim Microsystems machines.” He added 
that five or ten years after the construction
of Cyert, the campus community used a 
large number of Apple Macintosh comput­
ers.
Once Intel has left the basement, Bolton 
said, there are no definite plans, for reloca­
tion of the center near campus. Bolton said 
he thinks that there should be companies 
located near the University, such as star­
tups and corporate partners, however.
There has been concern from some stu­
dents that a solution center does not befit 
the goals of the University Center.
“It is ridiculous that the university is giv­
ing up space in the University Center, the 
building intended for students for rent-free 
use by a corporation, even if the space was 
not going to be used in the next three to
five years anyway. I would prefer the space 
go unused than be given to a corporation,” 
said John Whiteman, a junior industrial 
design major. “If they do give them the 
space, Intel should be required to develop 
the entire basement area and convert it 
into a bowling alley or similar space that 
students could enjoy once they leave.”
Bolton said he believed that the UC was 
originally included as a university commu­
nity building and he didn’t see the solution 
center as contradictory to that.
“I don’t have a problem with Intel being 
on campus, but the University Center isn’t \ 
the place for them to be. The UC should be 
a place for students and student organiza- 
See INTEL, page A7
Emily Gensheiner/Photo Editor
The UC basement may soon be renovated. The University is currently considering allowing 
Intel to use some of the space to build a "Solution Center" on campus.
Crime and Incident Report
BOOKST( 
our goal 
Binstock. 
of all nece
E, from page A1 
thirty percent,” said 
¡suring the availability 
ary texts is. another
concern of bth the Bookstore and 
the USAC tskforce, which met for 
almost a yar to find solutions to 
these concens. “We want as many 
books as phsically possible on the 
shelves by tie first day of classes.' 
97.4 percen of textbooks were on 
the shelves tiis year, down slighdy 
from 98.2 percent in 1999,” 
Binstock sail. In the future, the 
bookstore hcbesto post book buy­
back prices ciline.
In addition to using e-com- 
merce to improve faculty requisi­
tion commuliicaton the book­
store would 1 eventually like to 
develop an online textbook order­
ing system for students. Binstock 
would like to see a w»bsite where 
students can enter specific infor­
mation about textbook and other 
school supplies they wi'Ji to order 
and have all materialspre-pack- 
aged and ready for piikup at a 
convenient location. Th^ system 
will hopefully eliminate he hefty 
back-to-school rush 1 ircluding 
crowded aisles and longlines at 
the register. However, anidea like 
/ '
this will require detailed planning 
to carry out effectively.
“The idea sounds great ideally, 
but I’m not sure it will be more 
convenient and better priced than 
other places online,” said Jeff 
Easter, a junior industrial design 
major.
“My concern is with security,” 
said Binstock. The bookstore has 
done some research and spoken 
with a few companies about pro­
viding e-commerce to students. 
However, there are only a few 
companies who offer e-commerce 
to college bookstores. Missouri 
Book Systems currently handles 
the bookstore’s inventory tracking 
and cash register programs, but 
Binstock is not satisfied with their 
security or program packages. “I 
want something personalized for 
Carnegie Mellon,” he said.
The Bookstore and USAC task- 
force team have collaborated and 
brought many new interventions to 
the table. Binstock is enthusiastic 
about the improvements already 
made and the ones to come. “I real­
ly think the USAC taskforce for the 
bookstore worked really well 
together and came up with good 
ideas,” he said.
10/6/2000 STRANGE BEHAVIOR —
Campus Police observed three males walking 
away from the direction of Posner Hall. The 
three actors were apparently concealing items 
underneath of their clothing—the officers 
believed the items to be bottles. Upon con­
fronting the actors, campus police determined 
that the actors were carrying a case of 24 Very 
Fine orange juice and a 12 pack of Coca Cola. 
Though the actors said they aquired the items at 
Giant Eagle, no receipt could be produced. 
Campus police determined that an Posner Hall 
exit was not secured, though they could not find 
any items inside of the building that had been 
left unsecured.
10/7/2000 UNDERAGE DRINKING —
Campus Police responded to a call regarding 
four males who were involved in an alleged 
fight. Upon arrival Campus Police discoved two 
intoxicated males who said that they were argu­
ing over a supposed insult made about one of 
the actor’s girlfriend. Campus Police deter­
mined that the actors were both drunk, and 
issued citations for underage drinking.
9/30/2000 OPEN LEWDNESS — While 
patrolling the fraternities in uniform, Campus 
Police encountered a male who was in the 
process of unzipping his pants, apparently 
intending to urinate facing an area open to the 
public. Campus police stopped the actor before 
he could perform his lewd act. While campus 
was asking the actor for identificaiton, the actor
explained that to the officers that, “I wasn’t piss­
ing. I was going to measure my penis.” The offi­
cers explained to the actor that he was still per­
forming a lewd act, and that he must zip up his 
zipper so that the officers could finish the cita­
tion process. The actor told the officers that 
they should be prepared to answer for their 
actions in a court of law as his father is a lawyer. 
Campus police explained to the actor that the 
the profession of the actor’s father was inconse­
quential.
10/1/2000 CRIMINAL DAMAGE —
Campus Police responded to a fraternity where 
the victim explained to the officer that unknown 
actors entered his room and threw his Dell mon­
itor from the window while he was in 
Washington DC for the weekend. The victim’s 
roommates could not provide any supplemental 
information aout the $350 17 inch D-1528-LS 
Dell monitor. Campus police observed that the 
impact had caused the monitor to be rendered 
unusable. The victim stated that his door had 
been unsecured because CMU Housing failed to 
provided him with keys for his room after 
repeated requests over a two week period.
10/1/2000 RECOVERED PROPERTY —
Campus police responded to the Wean Hall 
3100 corridor for a recovered property report. A 
Central Properties Services employee stated 
that when she went to retreive her Georgia trash 
buggy at 11:10 pm, she discovered one case of 
Stegmaier Beer, one case of Lionshead beer, and
one box of paper plates. The items were trans­
ported to the communications center in car. 
number 4 for safekeeping by campus police.
10/2/2000 — PROPERTY DAMAGE —
Campus police received a call from the victim 
who said that her CMU issued Apple Powerbook 
G-3 notebook had been damaged by a broken 
water pipe. She stated that her landlord turned 
on the heat recendy and that the heating pipe 
broke cauing substantial damage to the comput­
er. According to campus police, the computer < 
stor in Cyert Hall may or may not be able tc 
retrieve the information from the $4,000 com 
puter.
10/3/2000 INDECENT EXPOSURE —
Campus police responded to the Schenley Park 
Circuit Drive area along with the Pittsburgh 
Police. A CMU student stated that while run­
ning the trails of the park at approximately 5:00 
pm she came upon a naked male, aged 30-40, 
wearing simply a maroon baseball camp. She 
stated that the actor stepped from a tree wear­
ing with a glazed look while remaining silent. 
She ran to the main road to phone campus 
police who took her back to the trail where the 
incident occurred, to determine the exact loca­
tion of the indecent exposure.
Compiled by 
Aseem GuptaClinton reflects on his presidential terms
WASHINGTON &P) —
Reflecting on his eigit years in 
office, President Clinon says he 
regrets his handing of the 
Whitewater investigaton and that 
if he had been moreexperienced 
he would have deat differently 
with the early challe;ges of health 
care reform and conflict in 
Somalia.
“What I regret isasking for the 
special counsel,” (linton says in 
the October 16-23 politics issue of 
The New Yorker magazine. In 1994, 
the president <>ked Attorney 
General Janet Reo to appoint an 
independent coui>el to investigate 
his Whitewater eal estate deal­
ings. Reno appoi ted Robert Fiske, 
who was later relaced by Kenneth 
Starr.
“I did it becase I was exhaust­
ed, because I fyd just buried my 
mother and beause I had people 
in the White Fpuse who couldn’t 
stand the heatind they suggested 
that I do it, tkt I had to do it. I 
knew there vas nothing to it, it 
was just a lie,'Clinton said.
For the magazine article, 
Clinton spok on two occasions 
last summer 3 Joe Klein, the once 
anonymous author of Primary 
Colors, aboua fictional 1992 pres­
idential camaign.
Focusing a 1998, the year of his 
impeachmet and the Monica 
Lewinsky iandal, Clinton said 
“there wasibviously a lot of pain 
involved.”
“I had mde a terrible personal
mistake which I didn’t try to cor­
rect until almost a year later and I 
had to live with it, and it caused an 
enormous amount of pain to my 
family, to my administration, to 
the country,” he said. “And then I 
had to deal with what the 
Republicans wanted to do with it. I 
really believed I was defending the 
Constitution.”
Clinton said facing impeach­
ment and dealing with the govern­
ment shutdowns in 1995 and 1996 
were among the great achieve­
ments of his administration.
“Those two things together 
essentially ended the most overt 
and extreme manifestations of the 
Gingrich revolution,” he said, 
referring to former House Speaker 
Newt Gingrich and the new 
Republican majority in Congress.
Explaining his administration’s 
failed attempt to deliver universal 
health care in 1993, Clinton said 
officials had pursued too many 
simultaneous goals.
“We didn’t know enough about 
how the system worked. It can 
only digest so much at once,” he 
said, noting they were pushing 
hard on a big economic plan and 
the North American Free Trade 
Agreement. “There’s no way the 
system could digest the health care 
plan.”
Clinton added that he should 
have worked for welfare reform 
before health care to give 
Democrats a chance to appeal to 
more conservatives and moder-
ates. He also defended his wife, 
Hillary, who led the health care 
overhaul.
“She gets a total bum rap on 
this,” he said. “She was operating 
within constraints that we now 
know are impossible ... it was my 
mistake, not hers. All she did was 
what she was asked to do.”
Clinton said a good solution for 
health care would be providing tax 
credits or vouchers to those who 
need them.
“That’s what you’re going to 
have eventually and if I could.do it 
now that’s what I would offer,” he 
said. “The problem is I couldn’t do 
it in ‘94, with the deficits the way 
they were, without a tax increase.”
Another early crisis was in 
Somalia in 1993, and Clinton said 
his decision to try to capture the 
warlord Mohammed Farah Aidid 
was based on the advice of General 
Colin Powell, who retired as chair­
man of the Joint Chiefs of Staff 
soon after the operation began.
“I’m not blaming him, I’m just 
saying he was gone,” Clinton said. 
“We had this huge battle in broad 
daylight where hundreds of 
Somalis were killed and we lost 
18 soldiers in what was a U.N. 
action ... I think I will always 
regret that — I don’t know if I 
could have saved those lives or 
not.”
“I would have handled it in a dif­
ferent way if I’d had more experi­
ence,” he said. “I know I would 
have.”
HH M4 financial
M4 Financial is an online commercial credit Application Services 
Provider developing highly sophisticated real-time decisioning tools 
and leading-edge data capture mechanisms to meet the needs of both 
sellers and buyers in B2B transactions.
Based in downtown San Francisco, M4 is an early stage venture 
backed by
Bessemer Venture Partners, Goldman Sachs, RRE Ventures and The 
Valent Group.
We have built a thriving team of 35 exceptional people, and we're 
expanding with smart,energetic,analytical and motivated individuals.
Representatives of M4 will be at the ESITE Startup Job Fair Friday.
Please stop by the M4 table to learn more about our company.

---------------------------------------------------

VOLVO © mazna | Lincoln ’tËZ&Êb Mercury % yuxlBt O
By choice, we are an Equal Opportunity Employer committed to a culturally diverse workforce.
The world of Ford Motor Company wasn’t exactly what Mel expected. At the same time, it was 
exactly what she was looking for.
It was innovative. The energy level was remarkable. And new ideas were embraced at every level. 
Even better, it was a company steeped in tradition but perfectly willing to reinvent itself. In other 
words, it was a perfect fit.
Mel’s impact was immediate.
From the East Coast to England to Australia, her ideas continue to keep us out in front.
Of course, people like Mel always look to the future. Maybe that’s why Ford Motor Company 
continues to make history. Are you ready to lead our world?
For more information on exciting career opportunities at Ford Motor Company, visit us at:
Information Session 
October u, 2000 
University Center 
Peter Wright McKenna Room 
7:15pm - 9pm
Please join us for appetizers and an informal chat. We will be recruiting for the following functions:
• Product Development
• Global Business Development
• Marketing Sales & Service
• Finance
• Manufacturing
• Process Leadership
Visit our website at mycareer.ford.com
'f

---------------------------------------------------

THE TARTAN • OCTOBER 9, 2000
Intel may renovate UC basement Heinz School searches for new dean
INTEL, from page A5 
tions, and not for corporations,” 
said David Blackwood, a junior 
industrial design major.
“I’m a little uneasy about some 
of the issues surrounding Intel’s 
move, but for the most part I’m in 
favor of the move provided those 
issues can be resolved. My main 
concerns are the construction in 
the UC — how much will it incon­
venience students?,” said Nick Fitzkee, a senior physics major 
and the Student Senate Campus Affairs chair. He said the is some­
thing that would have to be 
addressed even if the space was 
being renovated for organiza­
tions, but that he was a little con­
cerned that the University may
neglect the issue. He wanted the 
University’s assurance that there 
won’t be closed off entrances to 
the UC or more mudpits where 
construction vehicles park.
“I see that this has a lot of poten­
tial to help students. The intern­
ship opportunities of having Intel 
directly on campus would be 
something that no other universi­
ty would be able to match. 
Although having Intel here for a 
time would tie up the space in the 
UC, right now it appears that it’s 
the only way that the space will be 
renovated,” said Fitzkee.
“I understand the general skep­
ticism about corporate presence, 
but our entire history— and every 
other worldrdass university’s — is
built on these kinds of important 
alliances. Scrutiny is reasonable, 
but we should not lose sight of the 
valuable opportunity it creates, 
especially for students. I am sure 
there is no shortage of universities 
who would embrace the partner­
ship with, open arms, and I hope 
they don’t get the chance,” said 
Murphy.
Although both Murphy and 
Bolton say that an agreement may 
be reached within a few weeks, 
there has inot been a final commit­
ment to the solution center. “It’s 
never a surefire deal until we sign 
an agreement,” said Bolton.
The final decision will be made 
by Bolton and Provost Mark 
Kamlet, who could not be reached.
HEINZ, from page A1 
are performing research to deter­
mine informational technology’s 
effect on society. One faculty mem­
ber is performing research on the 
“digital divide,” hoping to answer 
questions about the increasing 
inequality among incomes due to
our technology-based economy.
Another faculty member is per­
forming research on a link between 
the Internet and democracy, hop­
ing to see ways computer technolo­
gy can become a significant ele­
ment of our democratic govern­
ment’s structure. Babcock hopes to
create a research center where 
these areas of research can come 
together and funding can be con­
solidated. “We have important 
pockets of technology. We can 
form a research center and make 
the whole greater than the sum of 
its parts,” says Babcock.
Shelter allows animal experiments
Clinton, Lazio bicker over money
NEW YORK (AP) — Democrat 
Hillary Rodham Clinton, facing 
Republican Rep. Rick Lazio in the 
second debate of their Senate cam­
paign, took him to task Sunday for 
what she says is a violation of their 
agreement to ban outside money 
from the race.
“Last month, Mr. Lazio said this 
was an issue of trust and character. 
He was rjght,” Clinton said. “And,. 
if New Yorkers can’t trust him to 
keep his j-vord for 10 days, how can 
they trust him for six years?”
Lazio, who insists he has not vio­
lated the agreement, blasted her 
back, raising the issue of whether 
the Clintons have used sleepovers 
at the ¡White.. House and Camp 
David tô generate campaign con­
tributions.
“Mrs. Clinton, please, no lec­
tures from Motel 1600,” he said, 
referring to the White House’s 
1600 Pennsylvania Avenue 
address.
In what turned out to be a one- 
hour, rapid-fire exchange of ideas, 
charges .and countercharges, 
Clinton was even asked to explain 
her decision to stay with President 
Clinton after his affair with 
Monica Lewinsky became public 
knowledge.;
“The choices that I’ve made in 
my life are right for me,” she said. 
“I can’t talk about anybody else’s 
choices. I can only say mine have 
6eetf15£jtet|fon • niÿ rëligib'Qi!'ffàitïi^ 
on my strong sense of family and 
what I believe is right and impor­
tant.”
Lazio was careful not to criticize
his opponent on that. “I think this 
was Mrs. Clinton’s choice and I 
respect whatever choice that she 
makes,” he said. “This race is about 
the issues, about who can be most 
effective for New York.”
On the issues, Lazio was asked 
who he admired on the U.S. 
Supreme Court with particular 
attention to the abortion issue. He 
chose Sandra Day O’Connor, a 
Republican who supports abortion 
rights.
For her part, Clinton criticized 
Republican Presidential candidate 
George W. Bush for saying he 
admired Antonia Scalia and 
Clarence Thomas, two anti-abor­
tion judges on the high court. 
Clinton has said she would never 
vote to confirm judges who are 
opposed to abortion rights. Lazio 
has refused to make that a litmus 
test for judicial confirmation 
votes.
The two disagreed on every­
thing from public financing of 
campaigns — he opposes, she sup­
ports— to a domed stadium for 
the West Side of Manhattan — she 
opposes, he supports.
While President Clinton skipped 
the debate, as he had the first one, 
daughter Chelsea was on hand to 
provide support for her mother. 
Lazio’s wife, Patricia, also attend­
ed.
Even before the debate, the two 
Seri'ate candidates were seeking to 
score points with one important 
electoral block in New York, 
Jewish voters, by criticizing 
Saturday’s U.N. Security Council
resolution condemning the Middle 
East violence and criticizing Israel. 
The resolution passed with 14 
votes and the United States 
abstaining.
“The United Nations Security 
Council response to these events 
has been shameful,” the first lady . 
said in a statement released late 
Saturday night. “Its one-sided con­
demnation of Israel ignores the 
reality of the past week — Israel 
must be able to protect its citizens 
and end the violence.”
Lazio took the Clinton adminis­
tration to task for not casting a 
veto of the resolution.
“This evening, in the dead of 
night, thë Clinton administration 
unjustifiably vacillated on 
America’s historically unwavering
- support for the security of the 
State of Israel, our strongest ally in 
the Middle East,” Lazio said in his 
late-night statement.
The Sunday debate, held at a 
WCBS-TV studio in Manhattan 
and broadcast live by CBS affili­
ates across the state and b$ GNN 
nationally, came with just 30 days 
left in their high-profile and 
expensive Senate race.
A poll that came out last week 
from the Quinnipiac University 
Polling Institute: had Clinton lead­
ing the race ovei Lazio, 50 percent 
: to 43 percent, among 801 likely 
voters, with-a margin of error of 
plus or minus 3.5 percentage 
points. That is unchanged from a 
Quinnipiac poll released late last 
month.
KNOXVILLE, Tenn. CAP) — One 
of the country’s oldest Humane 
Society chaptersallowed veteri­
nary students to conduct drug 
experiments on shelter cats and 
dogs before they were put to death.
The Humane Society of the 
Tennessee Valley stands behind the 
sedative experiments on 107 dogs 
and cats that left some of the ani­
mals vomiting, drooling and, in one 
case, caused a seizure.
So does Dr. Edward Ramsay, the 
University of Tennessee professor 
who oversaw the work in 1996 and 
1998, and published the test results 
in the prestigious Journal of the 
American Veterinary Medical 
Association.
Even the outspoken People for 
the Ethical Treatment of Animals 
supports the intent ¦— find a seda­
tive to calm aggressive, anxious or 
feral animals so they don’t harm 
themselves or their handlers.
Vickie Crosetti, executive direc­
tor of the Humane Society of the 
Tennessee Valley, said she knows 
some people would not approve of 
the experiments.
Count among them the Humane 
Society of the United States, the 
related but independent national 
organization.
“We don’t think it is something 
that a Humane Society should be 
doing,” said John Snyder, compan­
ion animal program director at the 
national headquarters.
Crosetti said her Humane Society 
shelter takes in 14,000 animals 
annually, most of them dogs and 
cats. Some are wild and unadopt- 
able. As many as 10,000 are eutha­
nized annually.
The shelter has told county and 
city governments that it is getting 
out of the killing business 
December 31. But until then, 
Crosetti said, “We are forced to 
euthanize thousands of animals. 
And if we can find a kinder, gentler 
way to do this, then I feel that we 
should.”
The experiments were conducted
At Prudential, 
we let top achievers do 
what they do best.
Achieve.
Welcome to Is
Are you ready for our Corporate 
Fast Track? Prudential’s Accelerated 
Development Programs (ADP) give out­
standing college graduates a chance to 
launch careers on the fast track. We offer 
exciting paths in almost every area of our 
business. We’re looking for achievers from 
diverse backgrounds who share one special 
quality—a thirst for challenge.
Big company resources, small 
company attention. Our programs 
combine hands-on experience and 
innovative classroom techniques with 
one-on-one mentoring. Through a series 
of assignments, participants get the 
chance to develop a wide variety of skills.
Your chance to make a difference.
Prudential is known throughout the world 
as a leader in financial services and in 
communities everywhere for our helping 
hand. Participants in our programs are not 
only top scholars, but also leaders in school 
and community activities.
Get to know Prudential. If you
are ambitious and creative with demon­
strated leadership skills and a strong GPA, 
we'd like to speak with you in more detail 
about career opportunities.
We encourage you to submit your resume and 
find out about our corporate management 
career tracks.
? Actuarial Leadership 
Development Program (ALDP)
? Pace Investment Analyst Program (Pace)
? Prudential Leadership 
Development Program (PLDPI
• Human Resources
• Marketing Management
• Individual Financial Services
• Operations & Systems
• Marketing
• Information Technology
Please double-check with your career 
services office for resume submission 
deadlines and interview locations.
Be sure to visit our website at: 
www.prudential.com
Prudential offers a 
highly competitive 
salary and benefits 
package. We are an 
Equal Opportunity/
Affirmative Action 
Employer and are 
committed to 
diversity in our 
workforce.
(Sb Prudential
in three sessions — 36 cats and 37 
dogs in 1996 and 34 cats in 1998. 
The animals were randomly picked 
among those already scheduled to 
die. They were euthanized immedi­
ately after the experiments.
The object was to find a drug to 
substitute for the nets and traps 
commonly used to catch and con­
trol wild animals.
The tests also were to find a seda­
tive combination that could be 
administered by putting them in 
food or sprayed in the mouth 
instead of by an injection by dart or 
syringe.
Ramsay, an elephant specialist at 
the Knoxville Zoo, was looking for 
subjects for his research into seda­
tives that could replace the steel- 
jawed traps used to capture wolves.
“Doing studies on dogs is really 
expensive, especially if it is a novel 
area of study,” said Ramsay. “I 
approached the Humane Society 
and said this is what I am interest­
ed in; maybe we can do something 
that would be mutually benefi­
cial.”
The Humane Society agreed to 
let him experiment on dogs, but 
said feral cats—wild felines two or 
three generations removed from 
abandoned house cats — were its 
biggest problem. So Ramsay and 
his veterinary students crafted 
studies on both:
They eventually found a drug 
mixture that proved effective, as 
reported June 18 in the Journal of 
the American Veterinary Medical 
Association.
It combined a sedative common­
ly used on cats — ketamine, a 
member of the same drug family as 
the hallucinogenic street drug PCP 
or “angel dust^’ — and a horse tran­
quilizer, detomidine.
But there were side effects. 
Several of the 34 cats vomited and 
salivated excessively before they 
became unconscious, though they 
had gone 10 to 12 hours without 
food or water. A few had an unusu­
ally slow heartbeat.
Researchers wrote that if the 
sedatives were used “in a clinical 
setting with nonterminal patients” 
other drugs might be used to mini­
mize vomiting.
In this case, thé cats were moni­
tored for about an hour and then 
euthanized.
Veterinarians say such side 
effects are common when an ani­
mal is drugged. Vomiting before an 
operation is even preferred by some 
vets to reduce the chances of chok­
ing while unconscious.
Earlier studies, designed specifi­
cally to control animals just before 
they were killed, caused more 
severe reactions. Besides vomiting, 
three dogs given a pentobarbital 
sodium combination experienced 
high anxiety — pacing and barking
— three struggled to stand, and 
one thrashed in a seizure.
“Our first concern is always —Js 
it going to cause any kind of mental 
or physical suffering to the ani­
mals?” said Dr. Patrick Hackett,Ia 
practicing veterinarian and viÇe 
president of the Humane Society pf 
the Tennessee Valley.
“And looking at what the research 
project- suggested, we found it was 
not going to cause any mental or 
physical suffering and it was going 
to provide us, hopefully, with some 
information that would be benefi- 
. cial to animals in the future.” ’
But Ramsay said lethal doses had 
not been established for the combi­
nations of drugs he and his stu­
dents administered. That’s wfty 
shelter animals were selected.
“If this was something that was 
unsafe and the animal died because 
of the dosage, which did not hap­
pen, it Calready) was scheduled for 
euthanasia,” Ramsay said. “That 
would not be inappropriate.” ;
Michael Walters, a spokesman 
for . the American Veterinary 
Medical Association, said the three 
articles Ramsay -and his students 
published passed peer review for 
the “humane treatment of ani­
mals.”
SHOW YOUR STUFF ON TV!
We need original homemade MPEGS, Quick-Time 
Movies, and JPEGS or Videos & Photos
Send us your most embarrassing moments, 
spontaneous goofs and funny photos
Material must be original and NOT STAGED.
No second-hand stuff - it must be yours.*
E-mail to: FUNNY@COMEDYWORLD.MI8.COM
Mail to: Comedy World
1438 North Gower St.
Box 30
Hollywood, CA 90028
Include your name, address and phone number
*you will be required to sign legal documentation proving your 
ownership of the material
©2000 The Prudential Insurance Company of America, 751 Broad Street, Newark, NJ 07102cam-10/9

---------------------------------------------------

Forum
9 October 2000THE TARTANPage A8,
Desk attendants should not 
have to protect CMU dorms
An incident in Mudge House several 
weeks ago has raised many issues and 
questions concerning the safety of stu­
dents living in campus housing. At 10 pm 
on Saturday, September 23, police 
detained a suspicious looking male who 
had previously been wandering around 
the dorm attempting to open doors to stu­
dents’ rooms. Mudge residents claimed 
that the card reader on the front door had 
been malfunctioning for weeks and that 
there were rarely desk attendants (DAs) on 
duty to monitor the entrance. This care­
lessness resulted in unauthorized access to 
the building and its residents by tres­
passers.
Mudge is not the only dorm where stu­
dents have concerns; Resident Assistants 
(RAs) in Morewood and Donner have 
also been worried by the amount of van­
dalism and theft in the last year. One RA, 
Tina Laffkas, said she thinks DAs could 
be more careful about checking IDs, but 
the only real way to address security 
issues would be to have a security guard 
on duty.
In the past, Housing Services attempted 
to have desk attendants at the front desks 
pf dorms 24 hours a day. However, this 
Staffing proved to be a problem because 
students were falling asleep on the job 
during late-night "graveyard" shifts. With 
recent security hazards like the Mudge 
intruder, Housing has decided to create 
"Night Clerk" positions. In addition to nor­
mal desk attendant responsibilities like 
checking the phone, selling laundry 
tokens, and checking IDs, the Night Clerks 
will be responsible for periodically walk­
ing through the dorm buildings and check­
ing for vandalism and making mainte­
nance requests. The incentive for students 
to work these graveyard shifts is an 
increase in wage from $5.25 to $8 an hour.
Surely, Housing cannot expect the Night 
Clerks to take defensive action should an 
intruder come into the building and attack 
them. If the safety of students is in jeop­
ardy, especially late at night, trained secu­
rity guards, not students, should protect 
the dorm.
Sergeant William Ricci from Campus 
Police emphasized that break-ins on cam­
pus are very rare and are a result of peo­
ple forgetting to lock their rooms. He 
also stated that because the University 
does not hire part-time personnel, it 
would require hiring more full-time 
guards at an estimated cost of $15 an 
hour. Assigning guards to these posi­
tions, he explained, would not be "cost 
effective." Housing Services is not con­
sidering full-time security staff, as they 
feel students can complete the responsi­
bilities, and that the Night Clerk posi­
tions would be an opportunity for stu­
dents to take on well-paying jobs. 
Regardless of whether they will work for 
the pay, however, students’ should not be 
put in a situation like this where their 
safety will be compromised.
It is safe to say that students would not 
like to see their dorms become as strict as 
Pitt’s or Duquesne’s where visitors are 
required to sign in and out whenever 
entering or exiting a building. Such high 
security would be an unnecessary hassle 
for our campus. At the same time, making 
desk attendants work graveyard shifts 
doesn’t solve anything in terms of security, 
unless they figure $8 an hour is worth the 
students putting themselves at risk. 
Housing and Campus Police need to find a 
better solution, perhaps by hiring security 
guards during late-hours. These trained 
guards cost more, but are worth the invest­
ment if CMU really intends to make stu­
dents feel secure in their dorms.
Without Ali Baba, students 
find few vegetarian options
Ali Baba, a small Middle-Eastern food 
spot once located in the corner of the 
University Center’s second floor, left cam­
pus on June 30, a decision made by the 
owner. All that remains is a bare 
reminder of the place that served rice 
with pine nuts, grape leaves, and hum­
mus that satiated the vegetarian option 
on campus. Much to the dismay of vegans 
and vegetarians on campus Dining 
Services has not yet disclosed who will 
replace Ali Baba.
Currently, all the UC offers are foods 
such as pizza, pasta, tacos, pretzels, and 
heavy ham and cheese sandwiches. The 
‘O’ on the first floor is unhealthy, and veg- 
etarian-unfriendly. Some vendors do 
offer a few vegetarian options, but the 
loss of Ali Baba has created a necessity for 
more.
Dining Services should replace Ali Baba 
with a new food vendor that provides 
options to people that prefer vegetarian 
lifestyles. Most importantly, the vendor 
should not be another Parkhurst Services- 
run vendor. With generic vendors who do 
not offer fresh or healthy food, Parkhurst
has produced nothing of quality on cam­
pus thus far.
Commercial places such as Wendy’s or 
Taco Bell would offer cheap prices but 
would have little appeal to vegetarians. 
As one possibility, the new vendor could 
offer fresh salads, and even offer hot soup 
daily. The new vendor should not only 
have affordable and healthy food, but 
also more convenient, later hours for stu­
dents.
No one knows what Dining Services will 
replace Ali Baba with. Even though it is 
currently searching for a suitable replace­
ment to provide Middle Eastern, vegetari­
an, and vegan options for the campus, 
Dining Services in the meantime should 
have something set up to occupy the empty 
space. A small marketplace would be bet­
ter to look at and useful for the students 
instead of a vacant space. Either way, 
when deciding what to bring to the UC 
food court, Dining Services should take 
into consideration the two requirements of 
any food establishment set up on campus 
— it must be inexpensive and the food 
must taste good.
THE TARTANCarnegie Mêlions Student Newspaper Since lÿ16 
EDITORIAL BOARD
ISH HARSHAWAT, Editor-in-Chief
SETH MANDEL, Managing Editor 
SARA STILLE, News Editor 
CHRISTINA KOSHZOW, Forum Editor 
CHRISTOPHER CHUNG, Sports Editor 
JOANNA SMILEY, Co-Arts & Living Editor 
ANDY FRANCIS, Co-Arts & Living Editor 
SRIRAM GOLLAPALLI, Science & Technology Ed. 
BRAD GRANTZ, Business Editor 
GREG NOFI, Entertainment Editor 
JUSTIN SUISSA, Art Editor 
BRYAN KAPLAN, Photo Editor 
ASEEM GUPTA, Online Editor 
CHRIS MESSINA, Online Design Editor 
MICHAEL ZIMMER, Dossier Design Editor 
LAURA MARTIN, Dossier Co-Literary Editor 
JOSEPH TAGUE, Dossier Co-Literary Editor 
JENNIFER LIU, Advertising Manager
ASHA PATHAK, Business Manager 
BALAJI SARPESHKAR, Copy Manager 
BLAKE ENGEL, Personnel Manager 
LANCE BROWN, Production Manager 
KAI ZHENG, Systems Manager 
BETTY KIM, Darkroom Manager 
MATT BRUN, Special Projects Manager 
ZACH ZEBROVIOUS, Asst. Business Editor 
BETH POWELL, Asst. Entertainment Editor 
VINCENT CHAN, Asst. Advertising Manager 
SHAINA MCGRATH, Assistant Photo Editor 
SARA HENNEBERGER, Asst. Production Mgr.
CONTRIBUTING EDITORS 
Elaine Boland, Behnam Farahpour, Bradley Fearn, 
Cassandra Knight, Christopher May, Lorelei Laird, 
Jonathan Pearce, Anne Ray, Nathan Steinwald
THE EVER INCREASING ROLE 
OF THE CMU DESK ATTENDANT.
Justin Sulssa/Art Editor
Letters to the Editor
8o6Eo-c cmo eor-o
Editor:
The last few weeks have shown that the 
campus community has forgotten the 
rules of the Fence, so I ask that you print 
them. They are:
1) The Fence must be painted, in its 
entirety, between midnight and 6am.
2) Two (2) people must be on the grav­
el at all times to hold the Fence.
3) If the Fence is held for multiple 
nights, it must be repainted in its entirety 
each night.
4) Only the Fence is to be painted (no 
trees, trash cans, sidewalks, etc.)
There are groups that have held the 
Fence for weeks without repainting it 
or letting anyone else take it. Others 
have built tents on the Fence. Still oth­
ers have left piles of trash and moved 
public picnic furniture around the 
Fence. If you’re going to paint the 
Fence, great, but follow the rules and 
give the tradition and the campus the 
respect it deserves.
Joy Appel
Senior
Chemical Engineering
ta rok6 s6 lin rok6
Editor:
I was shocked to read Monday’s 
Tartan and not see either of the two 
major Pittsburgh tragedies mentioned. 
The Tartan is many CMU students’ only 
source of news (as they don’t care to 
check online sources or subscribe to 
other newspapers), and I think you 
have an obligation as the official CMU 
newspaper to provide us with informa­
tion about what is happening in 
Pittsburgh.
All of last week the main news story on 
the local news channels was the fifth 
grader who was brutally murdered, 
allegedly by a homeless man who is now 
in custody. There was no word of this 
story in last week’s or this week’s Tartan.
In addition, last Friday at 7 am, a house 
located on North Craig Street caught on 
fire. A University of Pittsburgh student 
died of smoke inhalation and carbon 
monoxide poisoning trying to get out of 
his window. This was covered by a news 
story and an obituary on the front page of 
the Pitt News. But once again, there was 
absolutely no mention of this in The 
Tartan. This happened right down the 
street. Many CMU students also live on 
North Craig Street. And many CMU stu­
dents don’t heed their fire alarms or 
smoke detectors.
I think that The Tartan needs to do a 
better job of covering local news which is. 
of interest to CMU students. It’s unaccept­
able that these stories were not covered in 
The Tartan.
Stephanie Hepner
Sophomore
Modern Languages
brco’v R +sirc Us6ciNo
Editor:
What a wonderful irony greeted me 
upon my visit to The Tartan’s Web site last 
week. Clicking over to the News section, I 
discovered, in neighboring headlines no 
less, that Ralph Nader spoke out on cam­
pus against big business, and meanwhile, 
the University is speaking to Intel about 
establishing a corporate research center 
in the UC basement.
And in world news, the Devil was spot­
ted at a Wal-Mart in Maine, shopping for 
snowblowers.
You have to wonder what goes through 
the heads of administrators at times. 
During my four years at CMU, I heard a 
plethora of suggestions on what to do 
with that space. A rec room. food court 
for national vendors. A campus-wide 
mailroom. A bowling alley. A bar. A 
miniature golf course.
Funny, but I don’t ever recall ever hear­
ing any student, faculty, or staff member 
suggest that a private company lease the 
space. There’s a reason for that. The 
University Center’s mission statement 
reads: “To act as a campus crossroads that 
promotes learning, social interaction and 
recreation. To contribute to the campus 
quality of life by offering facilities, pro­
grams, and activities of interest and value 
to the Carnegie Mellon community.” In 
support of this mission, “the University 
Center is a community center, a place to 
go and interact with colleagues and make 
new acquaintances. As a community cen­
ter, it meets the recreational, social, retail 
and food service needs of the campus. 
The University Center provides facilities 
for teaching and learning that may be 
used by the members of the campus com­
munity or external organizations whose 
primary purpose is education” 
(http://www.cmu.edu/university-czn- 
ter/).
A corporate research center doesn’t 
sound to me like it goes far towards meet­
ing those goals. I think anyone would be 
hard-pressed to argue that Intel helps 
meet CMU’s recreational, social, retail, 
and/or food service needs. And I sincere­
ly doubt that Intel’s primary purpose is 
education.
Intel, of course, would argue that the 
University benefits through educational 
opportunities for computer science and 
business administration students. But I 
see a little firm commitment and a lot of 
“maybe” on Intel’s part in the article: 
“[Intel representative Cate] Anderson 
said that questions of intellectual proper­
ty would be dealt with on a case-by-case- 
basis. Faculty and students working on 
projects might have the ability to publish 
papers and conduct research on the prod­
ucts they work on without having to pay 
royalties. In addition, Intel could share 
some of its existing intellectual property 
for CMU’s internal use.”
Granted, Intel’s tentativeness might be 
because the formalties of the agreement 
haven’t been hammered out yet. But per­
sonally, if I were to even consider such a
deal, I would demand firm commitment 
from Intel, long before the ink hits the 
paper, stating specific benefits that the 
University community would receive. 
Intel certainly has the right to protect its 
intellectual property, but the purpose of a 
university is to disseminate information, 
not to keep it under lock and key. To me, 
that is the most compelling reason why a 
corporate research center doesn't belong 
anywhere on CMU’s campus, much lessen 
the UC.
If Intel really wishes to benefit the 
University via the basement space, why 
not donate money to have that space ren­
ovated for a function of the University 
community’s choosing, in exchange j$i 
naming rights? Okay, maybe the “Infel. 
bowling alley” sounds a little odd, but I'm 
sure there’s a workable solution along 
these lines.
Of course, I’m only an alumnus, so my 
opinion on this subject doesn’t matter all 
that much. Students: The University 
Center is your space, and it’s up to you to 
keep it that way. Let your Senators know 
that you’re against having a corpor^e 
presence that prominent on campus. 
Administrators: Do not let yourselves be 
blinded by the temptation of finally berng 
able to use that space. The mission of the 
University Center, and indeed that of the 
University itself, is too important to be 
compromised to this end.
Kevin Babbitt
Computer Science ‘00
OmsKn EiKcx UiccoK6
Editor:
' In the aftermath of last Tuesday’s pi£SiL 
dential debate, the media is quick to pose 
the question, “who won?” while failing to 
answer the more pressing question of 
“who lost?”: the American public.
The Commission on Presidential 
Debates, (C.P.D.), a bipartisan puppet 
organization run by the Republican and 
Democratic parties, has decided that only 
the two parties qualify for the equivalent 
of millions of dollars of soft money in the 
form of free advertisement in the estab­
lishment media. By barring third party 
candidates which qualified for Fed&'al 
Election Committee funding (i.e. tax£&y- 
er money), the C.P.D. has attacked a ftiri- 
damental tenet of democracy: that" dll 
candidates are equal under the 1'atv; 
Reinventing the U.S. constitution, the two 
parties have effectively fixed the elections 
to maintain power, a ploy normally only 
seen in fascist dictatorships.
In a time when the two parties are 
merging with each other (and their cor­
porate sponsors), America’s need for an 
alternative to this fascist duopoly is unde­
niable. In years past we executed those 
guilty of treason against our nation; in the 
brave new world of the 21st century, we 
are going to put them in office.1
Steven Elliot Pav
Doctoral Student
Mathematical SciencesPolice roadblocks restrict more than drivers
Christian Restifo
It seems that Indiana doesn’t have 
enough to do, what with growing corn 
and watching Indiana University stu­
dents riot for the right to watch Bobby 
Knight choke players and throw chairs. 
It’s now intent on helping destroy what’s 
left of the 4th Amendment.
This week, the city of Indianapolis
argued before the Supreme Court that it 
should reverse a lower court decision rul­
ing drug-search roadblocks a violation of 
the search and seizure clause of the 
Constitution.
These roadblocks usually consist of the 
following actions: The police, sometimes 
along with Indiana state troopers, county 
sheriffs, and other local law enforcement 
agencies, set itp a “random” roadblock. 
Motorists are stopped, and their drivers’ 
licenses and registration forms are 
checked. Officers also check for signs of 
intoxication or drug use while a drug-
sniffing dog is walked around the car. 
Should Fido sniff something, that’s con­
sidered grounds for a warrant-less 
search.
Indianapolis had admitted that the sole 
purpose of these stops is to find and seize 
drugs coming through the city. Since the 
Supreme Court has ruled that roadblocks 
looking for illegal immigrants and drunk 
drivers are legal, Indianapolis is arguing 
that their stops should be treated in the 
same manner.
But these stops are much more dan- 
See ROADBLOCKS, page A9

---------------------------------------------------

THE TARTAN • OCTOBER 9, 2000
Indianapolis police searches endanger constitutional rights
ROADBLOCKS, from page A8 
gerous than they sound. Consider the case 
o£-a friend of mine who went to an Ozzy 
Osborne concert in Indianapolis.
Upon leaving the concert, my friend and 
his three friends found themselves in a mas­
sive roadblock set up just outside the parking 
lot. No one was allowed to leave the concert 
except through the roadblock route. A police 
car instantly chased anyone who tried to slip 
away.
While my friend waited in the road­
block, a police officer came down the line, 
picking out cars. Of course, my friend was 
in one of the selected cars. Near the end of 
the roadblock, the driver was instructed to 
pull into a nearby parking lot that was 
turned into a giant interrogation zone. All 
four members of the car were forced out of 
the car without any reason. (My friend 
would later find out through his attorney 
that they were forced to exit the vehicle to 
protect the safety of the officers present; I 
guess three armed state troopers, near 
dozens of other armed officers, don’t 
know how to protect themselves against 
four guys coming out of a heavy metal 
concert.)
Everyone was then patted down while the
license and registration of the driver were 
checked. When the police officer felt a small 
vial in my friend’s pocket, he smiled with glee 
and ordered my friend to remove his 
drug-smuggling container. My friend 
took out his earplug container which 
had in it, much to everyone’s surprise, 
ear plugs. Being the safety fanatic he 
is, my friend didn’t want to lose his 
hearing at the concert.
This particular search utilized the 
resources of numerous local law 
enforcement agencies. According to a 
written response to my friend’s attor­
ney, all law enforcement officials had 
been instructed on how to conduct 
this “random” search of vehicles. How 
“randomness” was determined wasn’t 
divulged. From what my friend saw, 
anybody with a hippie look (like his 
Elvis-style sideburns) was tagged for 
the check.
This particular search is not part of 
the Indianapolis case before the 
Supreme Court, but it goes to show how far 
law enforcement agencies will sometimes go 
to bust a criminal. Unfortunately, the rest of 
us are caught in the middle, and that sets a 
dangerous precedent.
If the Court’s questioning of the city’s 
lawyer is any indication, we may escape with 
our Fourth Amendment rights, but it’s not
Reagan Heller/Art Staff
certain. Several justices asked why such a 
procedure wouldn’t lead to officers stopping 
pedestrians on the street. The city’s lawyer 
responded that Supreme Court has ruled dri­
vers have a less protected status.
That claim is supported, unfortunately, by 
previous Supreme Court rulings. For exam­
ple, the Court ruled in the past that passen­
gers (and their possessions) have 
the same rights as drivers. Thus, if 
you’re riding with your friend and 
get pulled over, any search the offi­
cer purports to have the power to 
conduct also applies to you. Imagine 
visiting your friend in his or her 
house, having the police come over 
to search for drugs, and having 
them claim the-power to search you 
even though you present no danger.
I hope the Court sees the search­
es for what they are: wide-flung 
nets that attempt to ensnare crimi­
nals without any proof of a crime 
while trampling our Fourth 
Amendment rights. Then maybe 
they’ll start reconsidering all the 
poor decisions regarding vehicles 
and searches that let things get this 
far in the first place.
Christian M. Restifo is a First-year Flex- 
Time MBA student. A former resident of 
Indiana, he hopes he never gets stopped 
there again.Lighten up: writer reexamines anti-Greek stereotypes
Sean Mintus
In light of the recent presidential mass- 
debation, I had a great column about social 
security, tax cuts, health care, and other 
political phooey all locked and loaded. But 
seeing as how, in all honesty, I couldn’t have 
cared less, and was recently motivated to 
address a separate issue, I’ll just leave my 
bureaucratic diatribe on the back burner. So 
all of you Democrins and Republicrats can 
just calm down for awhile and go back to 
slinging mud and backing candidates with 
thé collective I.Q. of asparagus. Oh, and I 
would address Nader and his verdant olive 
emerald party as well, but I have limited 
space and wish to avoid insignificant factors.
-So it seems that my column last week 
upset a few people. My tongue-in-cheek 
commentary on the Olympics might have 
been taken a little too far. After all, the 
paramount aim of this column is to facili­
tate the Carnegie Mellon community in 
doing something that I earnestly believe it 
needs to do: take itself a little less serious-
ly. Despite my opinions of the manners in 
which certain organizations conduct 
themselves, there was absolutely no need 
to lash out at individual groups, and for 
that I am truly sorry (I’d like to thank the 
Academy...). Should I expect a letter to 
the editor from the Philosophy 
Department now? Personally, I think their 
time would be better spent, oh I don’t 
know, grading papers, or improving lesson 
plans, or sitting in forests while taking 
mind-expanding drugs and waiting for 
trees to fall, but what do I know?
But seriously, why can’t everyone just calm 
down. I have received over the course of this 
past week, several emails conveying a sincere 
feeling of discontent with the way I por­
trayed the Greek community. One individual 
who, to protect his true identity, will hence­
forth be known as “P.C. Man” went so far as 
to arrange a meeting with me wherein we 
discussed the status of Greek/University 
relations and my apparent efforts to damage 
them. This meeting basically consisted of my 
telling P.C. Man to go piss up a rope because 
I’ll write what I damn well please. But it did 
get me thinking.
Now, as a member of CMU’s Greek com­
munity, I feel inclined if not obligated to
speak publicly on it whenever I choose. And 
as far as the Greek reputation at this 
University goes, the first thing that must be 
brought to light is the fact that this is an 
anti-Greek school run by an anti-Greek 
administration, populated on a large scale 
by an anti-Greek student body. There is 
really no way around this, so don’t expect 
me to spare anyone.
The problem with this whole ordeal exists 
in people confusing some playful barbs for 
strong anti-Greek sentiment. Nothing could 
be further from the truth. I take just as 
much, if not more, offense to the. majority of 
the University pigeon-holing the Greek sys­
tem. I’m fully aware that most consider us 
collectively to be nothing more than a bunch 
of pretentious, shallow, no good, beer-swill- 
ing vagrants.
I will not debate this. In fact, as one with 
carnal knowledge of a Greek organization 
and an active part of the community, I’d have 
a hard time honestly disputing it. 
Additionally, I realize that nothing I say 
could possibly alter your opinions in any way, 
so I think my point moot.
But I could argue that per person, the 
Greek community does roughly ten times the 
annual community service than any other
organization on campus. After all, when’s 
the last time KSA stopped hazing and went to 
a soup kitchen? I’ve never seen Scotch ‘n’ 
Soda take the fence for a clothing drive. And 
don’t even try to tell me that the fencing club 
has raised money for cancer research. 
Unfortunately, I doubt this is enough to sway 
anyone’s opinion. I could say that the Greek 
community makes this University’s largest 
pasttime better. 7 of the top ten finishers in 
the male sweepstakes division last year were 
fraternities. But that doesn’t mean anything 
either, now does it?
So I propose that everyone just shut up 
and go back to hating one another and 
coding. After all, this is CMU, and we all 
have better things to do than argue over 
which organizations are more legitimate, 
or which should be respected more than 
others. Plus, I’m a “frat boy,” and that, of 
course, means that my time would be 
much better spent drinking myself into 
oblivion and chasing girls. Right?
Sean Mintus is a sophomore professional 
and creative writing major. He apologizes for 
the (semi-) seriousness of this week’s column 
and promises that next week’s entry will be a 
return to his customary routine of fart jokes.Rattletrap shacks, ugly paint jobs make Fence a campus eyesore
Frank J. Fleming
In our high-tech, increasingly 
. cynical world, most people never 
even consider the possibility of the 
existence of the devil. The concept 
of some boogey man running 
around trying to breed evil and 
damn our existence seems like 
some silly, medieval concept to 
many people nowadays. But what 
if there is a devil? What if there 
once was some angel who defied 
God and was cast out from 
Heaven? And what if his coup was­
n’t as destined to failure as one 
might think? Is it possible for God’s 
power over us to be nullified by his 
efforts? What if through our ignor­
ing-of Lucifer’s existence he can 
succeed in corrupting the world so 
much as to remove it from God’s 
wapmth and love, thus damning all 
of us, the evil and the good alike, 
to eternal torment?
And aren’t you all sick of the 
fence?
I mean, it’s not even really a 
fence. A fence blocks off some­
thing, either keeping livestock in 
or illegal immigrants out. Our 
fence does none of that; it’s just 
this ugly, horribly painted thing 
sitting in the middle of an other­
wise pristine field.
I know a good many of you are
haven’t even you began to tire of 
this grotesque edifice?
With so many art majors on 
campus, you’d think the fence 
would have some interesting 
designs on it every once in a 
while. But, no, instead it’s cov­
ered with hideous, grotesque 
color schemes from super cheap 
paint cans. Super cheap, mind 
you, because they had no hope of
WitH so many art majors on campus, 
you’d think the fence would have some 
interesting designs on it...
freshmen and a bit new to the 
fence, looking every so often to the 
ever changing zit on our landscape, 
thinking, “Wow. The fence has 
been painted again. Blue this time, 
with the names of the idiots who 
painted it scrawled on its side. Isn’t 
college a never ending cornucopia 
of wonders and merriment?” But
being bought for ,any legitimate 
purpose. The writing is usually 
meaningless, incoherent ram- 
blings that make the graffiti you 
find under an overpass look like 
Charles Dickens penned it.
The fence itself isn’t even the 
worst of it. The most disturbing 
thing is how some groups, the fra­
ternities being the biggest offend­
ers, feel this incessant need to 
“keep” the fence for days on end. 
Do they really think someone look­
ing at that hideous structure that 
appears as if it was painted by a 
retarded chimp is going to be so 
impressed as to join one of those 
over-glorified booze depositories 
we call fraternities? Anyway, in 
keeping the fence, they build these 
repulsive, slipshod structures to 
huddle in and guard their prized 
possession. In the end, it winds up 
looking like we have a shantytown 
in the center.of campus.
What an eyesore! I mean, not 
really any more of an eyesore than 
many of the students with their 
freakish clothing, dyed, eccentric 
hairstyles, and piercings through 
God-knows-where (I don’t want to 
sound judgmental, though, as I 
don’t know all the varied and per­
haps well thought out reasons peo­
ple dress the way they do. I just 
know that they look dumb.), but 
the fence is still one of the greatest 
blemishes on our campus (still
dwarfed, of course, by the bath­
room stall-styled Donner Hall. 1 
don’t know of a drug powerful 
enough to dull one’s senses to the 
point he could approve the con­
struction of that piece of crap).
Now, I don’t want to sound over­
ly hate-filled and spiteful, it’s just 
that the sight of the fence constant­
ly fills me with hate and spite. 
Here’s my solution. Instead of hav­
ing that stupid mobot competition 
(we know how all the great science 
fiction writers such as Bradbury 
and Asimov predicted the incessant 
and daunting need of robots to fol­
low white lines in the future), let’s 
have a smashbot competition. The 
robot that can best smash the fence 
into little bits wins. Unlike the 
mobot competition, this will actual­
ly produce something of use, 
because, frankly, lots of things need 
smashing.
Frank J. Fleming is a senior ECE 
major who believes in the existence of 
the devil and thinks that it’s proba­
bly a woman.
THE TARTAN
Carnegie Mellon's Student Newspaper Since igo6 
SENIOR STAFF
Emily Landes
STAFFWRITERS
Sara Amodio, Neil Babra, Cliff Chien, 
Krissy Choi, Cam Crews, Rob Cullen, 
Frank J. Fleming, Debra Halpern, 
LaRita Hamilton, Cynthia Kos, Erin 
Lucas, Sean Mintus, Damian
Olesnycky, Peter Patterson, Srinivas 
Pullela, Jennifer Resick, Lynn Tao
ART
Matthew Blum, Jamie Divine, Adam 
Grossi, Reagan Heller, Gabriel
Sabourin, Alissa Taylor
COMICS
Martin Hock, James Kenney, Jason 
Slater
PHOTO
Katie Aerni, Erica Barnes, Jeff Cullers, 
Anthony D’Auria, Emily Gensheimer, 
Matthew Lanken, Nuri Miller, Michael 
Raisman, Amy Solana, Matthew 
Trentacoste
DARKROOM
Peter Wang
PRODUCTION 
Michael Castellana, Eve Chen, John 
Davin, Serena Lam, Douglas Yung
COPY
Stacey Becker, Joyce Boss, Kristin Lala, 
Lorelei Laird, Meredith Powers, Emma 
Rehm, Julie Watt
JUNIOR STAFF
David Anderson, Sharad Bajaj, Andy 
Baker, Avinash Baliga, Eric Barker, 
Clinton Brownley, Kevin Burns, Yang 
Cai, Thomas Capasso, Lindsay Clark, 
Brad Cohen, Michael Cook, Anjanelle 
Delancey, Ellie Delancey, Dave del 
Rosario, Ryan Friedman, Ryan 
Hamilton, Melissa Horne, John Hursh, 
Lirona Katzir, Anish Kumar, Elizabeth 
Levin, Ann Lewis, To Han Lu, Andrew 
McKeon, Jodi Poniewaz, Christian 
Restifo, Paul Richelmi, Danny A. 
Silitonga, Surya Singh, Marissa Staller, 
Adam Steele, Sabrina Small, Vivek 
Sridharan, Erin Szeto, Cory Tong, 
Preston Treichel, Sriram Vaidhyanathan, 
Daniel Wood
The Tartan is the student newspaper of 
Carnegie Mellon University. It is a weekly 
newspaper published by students during 
the fall and spring semesters, at no cost to 
members of the University community. It is 
printed by Western Pennsylvania Printing, 
Inc. Subscriptions are available for the 
semester or academic year. The editorials 
appearing at the beginning of the opinion 
section are the official opinion of The 
Tartan editorial board. Columns and politi­
cal cartoons are the opinions of individual 
creators. The Tartan reserves the right to 
reject or condense any column or political 
cartoon. Letters to the Editor are opinions 
of authors who are usually, but not neces­
sarily, members of the University communi­
ty. A letter intended for publication must be 
signed and include the writer's address and 
phone number for verification. Names may 
be withheld upon request. The Tartan 
requests that letters be no longer than 350 
words. The Tartan reserves the right to con­
dense or reject any letter. Letters to the 
Editor must be submitted by 5 pm the 
Thursday before publication. Copyright © 
2000 by The Tartan. The Tartan editorial 
board reserves the right to withhold from 
publication any copy it deems unfit for pub­
lication. Office: University Center Room 
314. Phone: 412/268-2111. Mailing 
address: The Tartan/Box 17/Carnegie 
Mellon University/Pittsburgh, PA 15213- 
3890.
Email: tartan@andrew.cmu.edu 
Funded in part by your Activities Fee.
All rights reserved.
Library of Congress 
ISSN#:0890-3107.
The Tartan is a member of 
the Associated Press.
It might not be as important as the elections, but it’s time to settle this debate 
once and for all. In order to determine the side with the most support, we asked:A PERSON’S OPINION
Compiled by Sara Stille 
Photos by Behnam FarahpourSo what is it, soda or pop?
Maurice Parent
Senior
Business
“Soda, because isn’t it in the dictio­
nary or something?”
Jenny Rappaport
Sophomore 
Computer Science
“Soda, it’s just that I’ve always called 
it soda. No one calls it pop where I’m 
from.”
Josh Vizzi
Sophomore
Architecture
“It’s definitely soda becaue that’s the 
way it is.”
Karari Hanks
Senior
Chemistry
Eymard Cabling
Junior
Musical Theater
“It’s always coke. I would say, ‘Could 
I have a sprite coke please?’ It’s always
- coke.”

---------------------------------------------------

WIN A TRIP FOR TWO TOAFRICA
118 Meyran Avenue
412-683-1881
counci LtraveL.com
Put your knowledge 
to the test
Stand Out
Barclays Capital 
Recruitment Competition
Holiday Inn Select 
Campus Center 
100 Lytton Avenue 
Wednesday, October 25th 
12:00pm - 3:00pm 
or 4:30pm - 7:30om
Register at:
www.barcap.com/graduatecareers
EXPRESS BLACK & WHITE COPIES
. Receive 8-1/2' 011* Express sdl-serve, single-sided, black-and-white copies onJ white bond lor just 4f each. Limit 50. Oiler is limited to one coupon per customer.¦ Customer must relinquish coupon at time ol purchase. Coupon may not bereproduced and is not valid with othef coupons, oilers or discounts. Oiler valid at . time ol purchase only and may not be discounted or credited to past or luture
I purchases. Products and services vary by location. Coupon void where prohibited| or restrided by law. No cash value.
j VALID AT KINKO'S PARTICIPATING U.S. KINKO'S LOCATIONS ONLY.
kinko's
EXPRESS COLOR COPIES
Receve 8-1/2' i II' Express sell-serve, single-sided, lull color copies on 24-lb. white bond lor just 79f each. Limit 25. Resizing costs extra. Oiler is limited to one coupon per custcmer. Customer must relinquish coupon at timeol purchase. Coupon may not be reproduced and is not valid with ether coupons, oilers or discounts. Oiler valid at time ol purchase only end may not be discounted or credited to past or luture purchases. Products and services vary by location. Coupon void where prohibited or restricted by law. No cash value.
VALID AT KINKO’S PARTICIPATING U.S. KINKO’SLOCATIONS ONLY.
kinko's
Products and services vary by location. America Online is a registered servicemark ol America Online, Inc. Kinktfs and kinkos.com are registered trademarks ol Kinko's Ventures, Inc. and are used by permission. Kinko’s requires written permission Irom the copyright holder in order to reproduce any copyrighted work. 02000 Kinko's, Inc. All rights reserved.
This year the cast of MTV's 'The Real World' went to Africa. 
Now you can too!
Enter for a chance to win at your local Council Travel office 
or at counciltravel.com
This trip to Africa is provided byvirgin
atlantic
worldwido vacations 
for 18 to 35 year oWs
No Purchase Necessary. Open to residents of U.S., between the ages of 18 and 35 as of 9/5/00.
Void where prohibited. See agency for Official Rules or go to counciltravel.com. Sweepstakes end 10/15/00.
An annual technology 
recruiting event served with a 
friendly smile by the 
Pittsburgh Technology Council.
Try it... It’s Free!
GrEH^HOIJSE Pittsbur9h(>^)Oo-mra’a+x Council
growing » m » r t products . . ,www. pghtech. org
PRINT FROM DISK 
RÉSUMÉS 
OVERHEAD TRANSPARENCIES 
DIGITAL PRINTING 
COMPUTER WORKSTATIONS 
ELECTRONIC FILE SUBMISSION 
HIGH-SPEED INTERNET ACCESS 
POSTERS 
BANNERS & SIGNS 
MOUNTING & LAMINATING 
BINDING 
REPORTS 
PRESENTATIONS 
HIGH-VOLUME COPIES 
FLYERS & BROCHURES 
SHIPPING SERVICES 
PICKUP & DELIVERY 
FULL- & SELF-SERVE
It’s a special blend of...
Get your fill:
Tuesday, September 26, Penn State University, 
HUB, Alumni Hall, University Center, 3-7 p.m. 
Tuesday, October 3, University of Pittsburgh, 
William Pitt Ballroom, 3-7 p.m. 
Tuesday, October 10, Carnegie Mellon University 
Rangos Ballroom, 3-7 p.m.
Volou mue95e9,
kinko's*
PlTTQRI IRPH
3710 Ious6w .t6h • 412-687-2752 
210 aur95 n5h *412-471-8004
Open 24 hours • www.kinkos.com • 1-800-2-KINK0S • America Online® Keyword: Kinko’s
Barclays Capital
Pittsburgh technology companies 
projects and engineers 
and internship opportunities 
Exchange of ideas and information 
Music, food, and beverages 
(Hold the onions, company booths, 
and suits)
BARCLAYS

---------------------------------------------------

THE TARTAN » OCTOBER 9, 2000Ail
Bowden vs. Bowden: Tigers ready to take reins from Seminóles
Matt Blum/Art Staff
CLEMSON, from page A14 
in the nation in total offense and 
first in total defense. However, 
these stats were compiled against 
teams combining for a 8-19 record, 
including amongst them Duke, the 
Citadel, and Wake Forest — schools 
which would look excellent on' the 
resume of almost any aspiring indi­
vidual other than one seeking a 
position in the NFL. What I’m try­
ing to get at is that while a 48-10 
average victory margin is impres­
sive, the apparent idea to take 
scheduling tips from Kansas State 
does not help a team seeking credi­
bility.
Despite these reservations, I 
believe that Clemson is ready to 
pose a serious threat to Florida 
State when the two meet in 
Tallahassee November 4, which 
may very well turn out to be the lat­
est ever meaningful conference 
game played in the ACC since the 
’Noles joined the league.
The main reason for this is that 
the squad has the players; fore­
most among them is quarterback 
Woodrow Dantzler, known to 
everyone around Clemson as mere­
ly Woody. The junior is playing 
somewhat like a mini-Mike, Mike 
being the multitalented Michael 
Vick of Virginia Tech. Dantzler’s 
emergence has been the key in the 
Tigers’ turning around from being 
a 6-6 team a year ago. A part-time 
starter last year, Dantzler has used 
his arm and legs to lead Clemson to 
its fast start. He has run for 629
yards, passed for 865, and 
accounted for eight touchdowns 
each through the air and over land. 
Jim Caldwell, Wake Forest’s head 
football coach, stated that Dantzler 
can throw the ball very well and 
run it like a tailback after mesmer­
izing the Demon Deacons in a 55-7 
victory.
But one man does not make a 
great football team, and Woody has 
a rock-solid supporting cast. 
Tailback Travis Zachery, wideout 
Rob Gardner, and five veteran 
offensive lineman provide stability 
for the offense. The defense, 
ranked first in the nation heading 
into this week, is anchored by 
Butkus award candidate Keith 
Adams, who finished last season 
with 186 tackles.
Adding to the candidacy of 
Clemson as an elite football team 
was their win this week over NC 
State. The Wolfpack, although not 
playing a murderer’s row of oppo­
nents themselves, entered the game 
undefeated, had beaten Clemson 
three years in a row, kept the game 
close, and prevented Dantzler from 
playing to his ability.
Despite all of this, the Tigers held 
on for a hard-fought 34-27 victory. 
All that is now standing between 
Clemson and an undefeated record 
heading into Tallahassee are games 
against Maryland, North Carolina, 
and Georgia Tech, none of which 
strike fear into the hearts of oppo­
nents this season.
One final advantage the Tigers
will have heading into this game is 
the man on the sidelines, head 
coach Tommy Bowden. He took 
TUlane to an 11-0 record in his sec­
ond season there, and appears 
determined to do the same in 
Clemson this season. And, as he 
showed last season, he may have a 
knack for playing against dad. The 
1999 matchup was the first ever 
father-son Division I coaching duel, 
and it figured to be a bloodletting 
for the younger Bowden, as his 
mediocre squad was facing the 
eventual national champions in a 
game that would earn Bobby his 
300th career victory. However, the 
anticipated blowout did not occur, 
and the Seminoles held on for a 
tight 17-14 victory.
Those hoping for a competitive 
ACC in the last few years have been 
teased by teams such as North 
Carolina and Georgia Tech, only to 
see their hopes dashed on the field 
by the Seminoles, then returning to 
their prior positions in subsequent 
years, failing in their best shots to 
unseat the champions.
However, like fans of the Chicago 
Cubs, eternal optimists latch on to a 
team such as the Clemson Tigers. 
They are buoyed by the loss of FSU 
to Miami, in hopes that the 
Seminole reign of terror may come 
to an end, and the ACC may come to 
resemble a real conference more 
than a mere formality. Once this is 
accomplished, the next step is to get 
it out of the ruling family of the 
Bowdens.
xxe$xe^eut*fc\VP *
\jjeO©
Go^V*o0°
0<*°toe*
VW»4*1'®* 8.6®
SW
AV.3°
a«*
concrete
incorporated
We are Concrete Incorporated. We build Internet businesses. We need enthusiastic people with that elusive 
mixture of broad knowledge and unrelenting ingenuity. If this sounds like you, join us,
RSVP at http://rsvp.concreteinc.com

---------------------------------------------------

mf k.U I I \J I \l
PROFESS.----------tuont.|l*>w
cers 
puter 
intain 
C exp
keup
eded
itoriaj
idayj
idayj
/eas<
gngh
-care 
;nded^ 
Larry
onors
¿edles
^ers
Professional Dishwasher. Exp.
PJ
IECTI0N E22DREAM JOBS
¿55-5248.
Sorry, this section contains no 
information because this section 
doesn't actually exist. That would 
be too easy. The real way to find 
the job you want is to listen to 
Jeff Daniel, CEO of CollegeHire™ 
when he presents "How To Find 
Your Dream Job." It's the place 
to start your career search. Unless 
you'd rather wait for somethin 
.to turn up here.
SEClPART-1
•moorary Dis
mL. Ca
-c Exp
Danct
Lion-t
Librai
Appl\
Compì 
laintr 
10 e>
lak
Wf
wra
"How To Find Your Dream Job"
It's all the info you need to get the job you want-
right out of college.
Featurirg Jeff Daniel, CED of oo CollegeHire 
Thursday, October 2000 • 5:00-7:00 P.M. • BH A51 Giant Eag
Auditorium
¦ collegeHire anà the. CollegeHire logo are
52000 CollegeHire.
trademarksof Co'llegeH

---------------------------------------------------

THE TARTAN • OCTOBER 9. 2000
Women’s soccer falters again CMU to clash with Washington
by Melissa Horne
junior Staffwriter
This past week the women’s soc­
cer team suffered two difficult loss­
es to University Athletic Association 
opponents Emory University and 
New York University. The team has 
been unable to break free from the 
losing streak it started two weeks 
ago against the University of Chicago, and now, five losses later, 
the problem seems to be the Tartans’ inability to score.
In last Friday’s game against the Emory University Eagles, the 
Tartans did not have enough 
offense. Emory outshot and out 
cornered the Tartans.
The Eagles had a well-developed 
attack that centered on shots taken 
at. acute angles. These shots, taken 
from corners and break aways, min­
imized passing and interceptions by 
the Tartan defense.
Though the Eagles almost scored 
several times with these shots, their 
one goal was scored on a Tartan 
error, with one minute left in the 
first half. At 1-0, Emory needed no 
more, as that score stood until the 
eild of the game.
The Tartans did fight back, as
they always do, but the ball just 
would not go in the goal. Not only 
were the players on the sidelines 
frustrated with the lack of offense, 
but the fans were as well. Late into 
the second half family and friends 
cheered on the Tartans, hoping to 
spark some offensive fireworks. 
Unfortunately, the game ended 
without a Tartan goal.
A 1-0 loss to Emory was not 
something to be terribly upset 
about, however, considering the 
Eagles’ number 17 ranking in the 
nation among Division III schools. 
The Tartans managed well against a 
challenging team.
On Sunday, in the bitter cold, the 
Tartans faced New York University. 
The two teams proved to be well- 
matched.
During the first half, the game 
moved from one side of the field to 
the other often, and each team had 
many scoring opportunities. At the 
end of the first half the score was 
knotted at 0-0. The Tartans 
appeared to be much more aggres­
sive in this game than before, shoot­
ing more often, and playing farther 
up the field. In general, Carnegie 
Mellon seemed to playing within 
itself and in control.
With 17:42 left in the second half
the tempo of the game changed 
completely.
NYU scored after a Tartan defen­
sive breakdown. The Tartans 
attempted to clear a ball from the 
goal area, but lost it. An Emory 
player then managed to squeak 
through the defense in front of the 
CMU goal, and beat the Tartan 
keeper.
The mistake forced the Tartans to 
try even harder to score. With 6:46 
left in the game NYU scored again, 
on another defensive error. Again 
the Tartans were shut out.
With the season past the halfway 
point, the Tartans have dropped to 
a record of 3-8, with a current five 
game losing streak.
So the Tartans is averaging 1.18 
goals against per game, a good 
defensive statistic, but they have 
been shutout six times this season. 
The Tartan’s opponents can win 
with one goal; in fact, the score in 
four of the team’s eight losses has 
been 1-0.
Thè solid Tartan defense alone 
cannot save the team against pow­
erhouses such as Johns Hopkins 
and Emory. If the offense does not 
start picking up the difference, 
more difficulty may lie ahead for 
the team.
file photo by Peter Wang/Photo Staff
Quarterback Eric Zimpfer (2) hopes to lead the Tartans to victory against Washington this week.
FOOTBALL, from page A14 
The mistakes and poor execution 
at times of the young Tartans has­
n’t led Lackner to point to youth as 
a justification.
“You’re only young for so long. 
It’s game number six. I’m not buy­
ing that anymore. That’s an 
excuse, and I’m not going to make 
excuses.”
Wash U has been stingy on the 
defensive side of the ball, allowing
opponents a mere 71.4 yards a 
game rushing, withstanding last 
week’s amazing performance 
against Trinity.
The Tartans ran the ball 53 times 
against Franklin and Marshall, 
•averaging just under four yards per 
carry, a figure below their average. 
While Carnegie Mellon passed only 
13 times, Lackner isn’t worried 
about his offense becoming pre­
dictable.
“It [the offense] depends; on 
what Wash U wants to defend...My 
coaches know football and they 
have the right answers. It’s a mat­
ter of execution.”
“They [Wash U] have very good 
athletes and are well-coached. 
There’s not going to be any magical 
offense or defense to beat Wash U. 
Our kids have to do a better job of 
what we’re coaching them to do.” 
If only perception were reality.
Wanna START
something?
www.eatoniobs.com
Accounting 
Engineering 
Human Resources 
Information Technology 
General Management 
Strategic Planning 
Supply Chain 
Technical Sales
Eaton Corporation. Who?
We're a high-tech, $8.4 billion global manufacturer 
of highly engineered products. Get out!
We're looking for exceptional graduates to 
join our ranks. Hey! That's me!
Visit us online. You're online? Sweet!
Or join us on campus. We're interviewing select candidates. 
That's me...again! Candidates attracted 
by a fast-paced business environment. I love it!
Are you challenged by a competitive 
work atmosphere, where teamwork is essential and the 
best idea wins? I'm there! Then register with career 
services for an on-campus interview. First in line, man.
We look forward to discussing your professional 
vision as a potential Eaton associate. I can't wait!
Go ahead. Start something with the best company you 
know nothing about. Try and stop me.
For more information or to apply online, 
go to www.eatonjobs.com, 
then check with your Campus Career Services Office.
The BEST company you know nothing about.
classified
Travel
WINTER BREAK/SPRING BREAK
Ski & Beach Trips on sale now! 
www.sunchase.com or call 1-8D0-SUNCHASE 
TODAY!
For Sale
Attn: Student Entrepreneurs: 1992 Mazda 
pick-up truck (series 2200) 56,000 mi. Very good 
performance, clean, single owner, garaged, stan­
dard transmission, radio/tape, tire warranty, no 
AC, new bed linder. Retail value S5,000, asking 
S4000.
Efficiency Apt - Oakland, 2 rooms, dean/spa­
cious, available immediately. Very close to bus 
line and convenient to campus. 271 -6162
Good dorm stuff! Love seat, office phone, 
leather chair, linens, folding lawn chairs, etc.
Call 431-7693 evenings.
shop online for food www.windfallfoods.com is 
Pittsburgh's wholesome food e-store, always free 
delivery! organic, convenient, non-gmo. 
vegficvegan. low fat. high protein, kosher, 
health&beauty. 412-682-2922
Opportunities
#1 Spring Break Vacations! Best Prices 
Guaranteed! Cancún, Jamaica, Bahamas, & 
Florida. Sell Trips, Earn Cash & Go Free! Now 
hiring Campus Reps. 1-800-234-7007 endless- 
summertours.com
29 People Wanted To Get Paid SSS Lose up to
30 lbs in 30 days Natural - Guaranteed 904- 
366-8181
Auditions announced for Pittsburgh premiere 
of "Kindertransport."
Three generations of women unravel their history 
in this compelling drama about a young child 
saved from the horror of the Holocaust by a lit- 
tle-known rescue effort called the 
Kindertransport. Production dates are November 
30-December 10. Needed are four women, 
aged 20-80, one man, any age, and one girl, 
who ages from 9-17. For additional information 
or to schedule an appointment, call 412-521- 
8011 ext 111
Earn cash while participating in a research 
game. This study only takes 60 minutes. The 
average player receives S13. 
http://www.gsia.cmu.edu/negotiate
Marketing Assistant PT Responsibilities include 
data entry, assembling promotional literature, 
mailing press kits out and providing other mar­
keting assistance as needed. Must have excel|ent 
communication skills. Wil work between 10-1,5 
hr/wk. Please apply, clearly identifying the posi­
tion applied for, with salary story to: TimeSys 
Corporation, Attn: Christopher A. Ferrara, 
Manager, Human Resources, 4516 Henry Street, 
Pittsburgh, PA 15213; Fax: 681-5522; email: ‘ 
jobs@timesys.com
Need Cash? International Company seeking * 
Exciting and Enthusiastic people otork full Urn; 
eor part time from your home. Full training pro- 
vided - no experience necessary. 904-366-8334
Pittsburgh Deli Company 728 Copeland 
Shadyside Now Hiring kitchen/counter positions. 
Reliable 25 hr minimum. Call 682-354 Scott; 
David, Geoffrey.
Theater Department Positions. Jewish 
Community Center needs stage manager and 
run crew for Pittsburgh premiere of 
"Kindertransport." Production dates are 
November 30-December 10. Call 412-521-8011 
xl 11 for info or fax resume to the attention of 
the theater dept: 412-208-9107
Volunteers Needed ... Jewish Community 
Center needs volunteers to help with all aspects 
of Theater Department. Interested individuals 
call 412 521-8011 x111
Classified Rates
1-20 words..........$10.00/wk
21-50 words........$12.00/wk
51-100 words........$15.00/wk
MAIL TO:
The Tartan, Box 17 
Carnegie Mellon University 
Pittsburgh, PA 15213-B890
• Classifieds must be paid in cash 
or check before first run date
• On-campus departments and 
organizations may pay by journal 
transfer
• Due by 5 pm the Thursday 
before publication
THE TARTAN 
268-2111
Laugh out loud,
at the granddaddy of all screwball comedies
You Can't Take It With You
Directed by Ted Pappasby Moss Hart and George S. Kaufman
Now thru October 29
Short on cash? We’ve got just the ticket:
26 & UNDER/FULL-TIME STUDENTS - ONLY $10*
(412) 316-1600 • www.ppt.org 
O’Reilly Theater, Downtown
* Available in advance for Sunday thru Thursday evenings and all matinees.
One hour before performance for Friday and Saturday evenings. Valid ID required.
T H EATER ^Uteburglj $lost-(6azctfe ÜUQ 90.5 FflA
PITTSBURGH
15
2.0 —
«¦
1.0
New EPP Course for Spring 200119-650Climate and Energy: Science, Economics, and Public Policy
9 Units
How much will our planet warm? Can we avert olimate 
change without wrecking our economy? The political and 
economic stakes are enormous.
This course explores the science of climate change by studying ^ 
simple physical models of the climate system and the biosphere. 
Students will build very simple computer models of atmospheric 
radiation and energy transport. *
In the second half, we focus on energy policy. We will study the j 
energy technologies that underlie our industrial civilization in 
order to understand the challenge of reducing CO2 emissions.
For more information contact Professor David Keith, 
Department of Engineering and Public Policy 
X 8-2678, KEITH@cmu.edu

---------------------------------------------------

Sports
9 October 2000THE TARTANPage A14
Clemson 
leaves its 
pawprint
Full Court Press
by Pete Patterson
Saturday was definitely a con­
fused day for Ann Bowden, a day 
like one of those in Pittsburgh that 
starts off with a bright shining sun 
and chirping birds, and ends with a 
downpour of rain. For Ms. Bowden 
is the mother of Clemson coach 
Tommy Bowden, whose Tigers 
defeated NC State to remain unde­
feated and cement their position in 
the top five of the country. 
However, she is also the wife of 
Bobby Bowden, the legendary 
coach of the Florida State 
Seminóles, who fell to the Miami 
Hurricanes 17-14, victims once 
again to a field goal missed wide 
right — eerily recalling losses 
incurred at the hands of the Canes 
during the formative years of the
This week’s events 
left only one team in 
the conference, best- 
known for its hoops 
play, undefeated ... 
are these Clemson 
Tigers for real?
Seminole dynasty. And what a 
dynasty it has been, especially over 
Atlantic Coast Conference competi­
tion. With an overall record of 
62-2 in conference play since 
entering the league, Florida State 
has left its supposed rivals to battle 
for second place while mainly con­
cerning itself with extending its 
streak of top four finishes to an 
.astonishing 13 years. However, this 
week’s events left only one team in 
the conference, best-known for its 
hoops play, undefeated — and that 
team does not have fans who per­
form the Tomahawk chop. 
However, are these Clemson Tigers 
for real?
Entering this week, it was still 
undecided as to whether an affir­
mative answer was in line. Sure, 
Clemson had risen to be ranked 
number five in the nation, second 
See CLEMSON, page All
Streaking men’s soccer team silences New York 2-0
by Christopher Chung
Sports Editor
With a record of 8-1, and hav­
ing defeated several strong 
University Athletic Association 
rivals in the past week, the men’s 
soccer team is on a roll and looks 
to continue the hectic pace that it 
has set.
At Gesling Stadium yesterday, 
the Tartans defeated a frustrated 
New York University team, and 
added to the momentum that has 
been building since the beginning 
of the season.
Sophomore forward Adam 
Hibshman put in the decisive goal 
with a header, off of a free kick by 
junior midfielder Steve Tepper, at 
around the 33-minute mark in the 
second half. Hibshman soared in 
over his defender and angled the 
ball into the far corner of the net,
! momentarily freezing the NYU 
! goalkeeper.
The second goal came when 
first-year Bucky Ferozan rushed 
the goal after a blocked shot 
attempt, gained control of the 
ball, and unleashed a lefty bullet 
from close range that made its way 
under the keeper’s arms and into 
the net.
The aggressive play of the 
Tartans, led by the seemingly 
ubiquitous Tepper, drew several 
mild confrontations from the New 
York players; at one point in the 
second half, the referee spoke 
with some of the New York players
after a bit of shoving had occurred 
after a play. But whatever emo­
tional motivation NYU had, it did­
n’t help. The game ended with 
New York scraping for a desperate 
shot on goal, but didn’t come 
close. The Tartans took the victo­
ry, 2-0.
For head coach Nick Gaudioso, 
who was expecting this year’s 
team to go 8-8 after losing signifi­
cant players in last year’s back- 
field, the season has been a sur­
prise so far.
In addition to veterans on the 
team, there have been several 
important first-year contributions, 
including sweeper Mark Painter, 
and midfielders Bucky Ferozan 
and Mike Leonhard.
The spots filled by some of 
these first-year players were key 
roles in last year’s team’s success­
es, and seem to remain just as 
important.
“This year we filled that all with 
freshman, and we didn’t know 
how we were going to be,” said 
Hibshman. “They’ve done a great 
job, and that just gives us a chance 
to score some goals and win some 
games.”
However, even at this juncture, 
Gaudioso isn’t completely sure of 
his team’s true abilities.
' “You know, we’re so young, but 
now, after a few games, we’re 
starting to play pretty well,” said 
Gaudioso. “We . need a couple 
more games before we can tell 
how good we are.”
Gaudioso is confident that the
Sophomore forward Adam Hibshman 
Tartans will win at least several 
more games, and hopes that the 
Tartans keep winning at the pace 
that they have set.
“We just have to refine a couple 
things,” said Gaudioso. “You 
know, that’s just practice, repeti­
tion. In certain situations, we’ve 
picked up on what to do.”
Peter Wang/Photo StaS
fights off an NYU defender in an attempt to control the header.
Hibshman wants the team to 
remain focused and confident, 
and has his eyes set on being con­
sistent.
“The way things are looking 
now, it’s really looking good,” said 
Hibshman. “But we can’t let 
down.”
This Friday at 7:30 pm, the
Tartans face St. Vincent College at 
home, and then will play Point 
Park at home on Monday night.
The next week will consist of 
two games away at UAA oppo­
nents Brandeis and Rochester. 
Both Rochester and Brandeis 
should be very competitive teams, 
according to Hibshman.
Sports ShortsUAA Volleyball Round Robin
The second of two round-robin 
women’s volleyball tournaments 
for the UAA was held on Friday 
and Saturday at New York 
University. Carnegie Mellon made 
a good showing and returned 
home with three wins and one loss 
to add to its overall record.
In the first round-robin two 
weeks ago, Carnegie Mellon fin­
ished the weekend with a 3-1 
record. Coach Julie Webb’s goal 
was to go into the second round- 
robin and defeat all opponents, 
most notably Washington 
University. It wasn’t to be, howev­
er.
On the first day of competition,
the Tartans defeated Rochester, 
3-0, and Brandeis, 3-0.
On Saturday, the day of the 
semifinal and final, the Tartans 
handled Case Western Reserve,
3-1. The game scores were 15-6,
10-15,15-9, and 15-7.
The win pitted Carnegie Mellon 
in the final match against 
Washington University, which 
went 4-0 its first round-robin. -The 
Tartans were 3-1 in their first 
round-robin two weeks ago.
Washington defeated Carnegie 
Mellon, 3-1. The game scores 
were 15-8, 5-15,15-4, and 15-5.
The women’s volleyball team 
returns home to face Chatham 
College on Thursday, at 7 pm. 
Then, on Saturday, there will be a 
quad-meet between Carnegie 
Mellon, Washington and
Jefferson, Roberts Wesleyan, and 
Elmira. Both events will be home 
matches, played in the University 
Center.
Cross country — Dickinson Inv.
This weekend, the women’s and 
men’s cross country teams partici­
pated, along with 38 other 
schools, in the Dickinson 
Invitational meet, hosted by 
Dickinson College. Other teams 
that participated included 
Allegheny, Ithaca, Johns Hopkins, 
and Muhlenberg.
The Carnegie ’ Mellon men 
placed ninth out of the 39 total 
schools attending meet. The team 
finished with a total of 298 points.
The top three team finishers 
were Haverford College (124 
points), Connecticut College 
(133), and Ithaca College (136).
The men’s team average was 
27:50.10, and the team total time 
was 2:19:10.70.
The top five finishers for the 
men were:
25. Mike Rossi, 27:13.40 
39. Adam Wierman, 27:32.70
64. Pat Fisher, 27:52.90 
67. John Hursh, 27:58.40 
103. Alex Weiss, 28:31.30
The Carnegie Mellon women 
placed eighth out of 39 schools, 
with a total of 283 points.
The top three team finishers 
were Moravian College (72), 
Ithaca College (86), and
Connecticut College (119),
The average time for the women 
was 20:26.10, and the total team 
time was 1:41:48.5.
The top five finishers for the 
women were:
27. Brooke Cutler* 19:45.20 
54. Katie Janes, 20:17.70 
58. Katie Aemi, 20:26.50
65. Giti Farudi, 20:33.3 
79. Liz Currid, 20:45.80
The Tartans next compete at 
Slippery Rock University on 
Saturday.
The season-ending UAA tourna­
ment will be held at Case Western 
Reserve on October 28.
Compiled by 
Christopher Chung
pyi
NEWS
Tartans face challenge in Bad News Bears
Administration
Intramural Director: Mike
Mastroianni, x8-2214 or mma8+ 
Assistant Director: Mike
Grzywinski, X8-2214 or immike+ 
Secretary: Amy Kiryk, x8-2053 or 
kiiyk+
Intramural Board President: Mike 
Edwards, x2-2993 
Intramural Vice President: Ryan 
Jackson
Women’s President: Amy Tsao
Important Dates
Monday, October 9 — Six-person 
Volleyball begins 
Hiesday, October 10 — MANDA­
TORY SOCCER RULES MEETING, 
4:30 pm in the Small Gym 
Thursday, October 12 — Flag 
Football Championships at 8:30 
pm at the stadium
Sports in Season
Flag Football — Playoffs are now 
being played. Schedules are avail­
able in the IM Office. The champi­
onships will be played Thursday, 
October 12 on the stadium turf.
Tennis — Matches consist of 2 sin­
gles and 1 doubles. Matches are 
under way and are played 
Monday through Thursday 
evenings. Rescheduling and play­
off info will be available on 
Tuesday in the IM Office.
Bowling — The IM Bowling sea­
son is rolling at the PAA lanes in 
Oakland. Teams are reminded to 
report scores to the IM Office by 
Tliesday at noon.
Water Polo — IM Water Polo is 
being played at the UC Pool.
Games are played Monday and 
Wednesday evenings starting at 
9pm. No warming up while peo­
ple are participating in recreation­
al swim.
Golf — The date for the 2000 
Intramural Golf tournament was 
held Sunday, October 8 at the 
Schenley Park Course. Results will 
be listed here next week.
Racquetball - Matches are under­
way at the UC Courts. Please play 
games as scheduled and report 
scores to the IM Office.
Sports Upcoming
Soccer — There will be a manda­
tory rules meeting on Tuesday, 
October 10 at 4:30 pm in the 
Small Gym at Skibo Gymnasium. 
All teams must send a representa­
tive to the meeting. Failure to do 
so will cause your team to have a 
forfeit added to your record. The 
forfeit can affect your chance at 
the playoffs and a second forfeit 
will remove your team from the 
league.
Volleyball —Schedules are out 
and play will begin tonight.
Sports Completed
Cross Country — The 2000 IM 
Cross Country meet was held 
Hiesday, October 3 in Schenley 
Park. The men’s winner, Alex 
Thompson, led his team Omega to 
the team title and the women’s 
winner, Carissa Sain, led her team 
Hoopers to the title.
Co-Rec Volleyball — The champi­
ons were crowned Thursday at the 
UC Gym. PiKA-A won the majors 
and Siam defended its minors 
title.
All email rosters must be submitted
24 hours prior to the deadline.
by Brad Grantz
Business Editor
If perception were reality, the Carnegie 
Mellon campus would probably suffer from an 
overabundance of pocket protector vendors. 
Then again, if perception were reality, the 
Washington University Bears would play like a
3-3 football squad. However, when the Tartans 
(4-1) march into St. Louis this Saturday at 7 pm, 
they will be facing one of the nation’s most elite 
.500 clubs.
Wash U has lost three winnable games to ven­
erable opponents in the form of Albion College 
(4-1), Illinois Wesleyan University (5-0), and 
Trinity College (6-0). This past Saturday, the 
Bears were de-clawed by the Trinity Tigers, the 
3rd ranked team in the nation, on a 36-yard 
touchdown pass with 11 seconds remaining in 
the contest. The Bears’ 18-17 defeat highlighted 
their faculty to manage the play of the opposi­
tion as well as their inability capitalize on their 
opportunities.
Two Trinity fumbles led to two Wash U field 
goal attempts, one of which led to three points. 
The Bears marched into Trinity territory three 
other times, only to squander their golden occa­
sions with two fumbles and an interception.
Nevertheless, the Bears’ defense held Trinity 
to negative six yards rushing in the final three 
quarters of play (30 yards in the entire game), 
as well as allowing the Trinity offense to cross 
the 50-yard line only five times. The Tigers had 
been averaging almost 130 yard on the ground 
per game.
Of course, all is not sweet as honey for the 
Bears of St. Louis. The two fumbles yesterday 
highlighted a common theme in its three losses. 
Against Albion and Illinois Wesleyan, Wash U 
fumbled four times apiece, giving their oppo­
nents a shortened field. Albion, although out- 
gained by the Bears 418 total yards to 250, 
sneaked by the Bears on a late interception 
returned for a touchdown, 30-27.
While Wash U has dealt with more than its fair 
share of heartbreak, CMU has been barely 
breaking the hearts of their opponents. CMU 
squeaked by Franklin and Marshall two 
Saturdays ago 16-14 in a sloppy contest. The 
previous weekend, the Tartans survived a scare
from the Alfred Saxons, 26-21.
“The last two games we won, but we won ugly. 
Of course, I’d rather win ugly than lose pretty,” 
said head coach Rich Lackner.
Franklin and Marshall had not scored an 
offensive touchdown until facing the Tartans 
and had allowed an average of 43 points a game 
on defense. The Diplomats played like a starving 
pack of wolves though, hungry for the sweet 
taste of victory.
“They played three teams that have been or 
are playoff caliber teams,” said Lackner.
Against the Franklin and Marshall Diplomats, 
the Tartans shot themselves in the foot on sever­
al drives and allowed the Diplomats to disman­
tle the CMU secondary as a previously anemic 
F&M passing attack threw for over 300 yards. 
Meanwhile, Wash U will start its pre-season
While Washington has 
dealt with more than its 
fair share of heartbreak, 
Carnegie Mellon has bare­
ly breaking the hearts of 
its opponents.
third string quarterback, Brian Tatom. He has 
played well since starting the third game of the 
season for the Bears. Last week, he completed
12 of 22 pass attempts, garnering 122 yards, one 
TD, and one interception through the air.
However, Tatom will face a revitalized CMU 
secondary. Jason Morris will return at corner- 
back after missing time with an injury. Joining 
him in the secondary will be corner Joe Manger 
who sat out against Frankling and Marshall with 
a sprained ankle.
The return of Nick Zitelli, inside linebacker 
will also be a buoy to the CMU defense. 
Opposing offensive coordinators will have the 
reevaluate their attack, as CMU can show differ­
ent formations and run multiple blitz packages.
His absence was filled admirably by Michael 
Hubbert, the leading tackier versus the Saxons. 
While there wilL.be changes in the secondary,
the linebacking corps might see a varied rota­
tion of bodies with Zitelli’s return.
With an extra week to prepare for the Bears, 
the Tartans have been returning to basics. 
Lackner accredited his team’s somewhat disap­
pointing performance against their past two 
opponents to poor execution, in the form of 
missed blocks and poor tackling. However, he is 
enthused about his healthy ball club.
“We’ve had good spirited practices,” said 
Lackner.
See FOOTBALL, page A13
Who’s next
Carnegie Mellon (4-1,1-0 UAA) v. 
Washington University (3-3,1-0 UAA) at 
St. Louis, 7 pm (WRCT 88.3fm)
Last meeting: Last season. Washington 
24, CMU 7. CMU leads all-time series, 12-5.
The skinny: Carnegie Mellon has revenge 
on its mind, but Washington has the home­
coming crowd on its side. The Tartans will 
need to open up the offense against a club 
with 14 returning starters that can obviously 
stuff the run. The veteran Washington offen­
sive line should be able to create holes for 
their fumbling, bumbling running backs. 
There will be a noticeable shakeup in the 
Carnegie Mellon secondary.
Watch for: Cory Snyder, the Washington 
wide receiver. Last season, he had 69 recep­
tions, and last week caught four passes for 67 
yards. Carnegie Mellon quarterback Eric 
Zimpfer is quietly leading the team to victor)', 
regardless of CMU’s bruising rushing attack. 
The game could come down to the boot - the 
placekickers. First-year Mike Palmer is start­
ing to come around, while Washgton kicker 
Jonathan Fieg is 8-9 in field goal attempts.
Result: After my pathetic performance in 
the past two weeks, I can’t “bear” the 
thought of an inaccurate prediction. 
However, I bleed Tartan plaid. Hey, CMU is 
healthy and that’s worth something- 
Tartans 20, Washington 19.

---------------------------------------------------

Arts y» Living
9 October 2000THE TARTANSection B“Birdbath” integrates audience participation into philosophical discourse
by Joanna Smiley
Arts and Living Co-Editor
Imagine taking a trip to a placed called 
the Anderson Inn, where you will begin to 
embark on the journey of a lifetime — a 
spiritual quest for world peace. With the 
help of people like John Lennon, Albert 
Einstein, Gandhi, and Pope Gregory, you 
will have the opportunity to attempt to 
examine the dream for world peace that 
each of these renowned thinkers has 
intrinsically envisioned, but not yet seen 
come true.
“Birdbath,” an experiment in dramatic 
discourse that took place this past 
Tuesday, took a trip into this exact predica­
ment, involving the actors as well as the 
audience. It was a condensed version of a 
three-act play originally produced in 1996 
and was directed by Coni-Ciongoli- 
Koepfinger, an associate member of the 
Dramatist Guild of America and a gradu­
ate of theatre arts at Penn State. 
“Birdbath” is the story of Allistair 
Hawkins, a world-renowned chemist, with 
an interest in the alkaline relationships of 
acoustics inside and outside the psychical 
body. His passion for music brought him 
to the mountains, where he had planned 
to compose the perfect sonata for “his true 
love” in life, his flute. Upon this journey, 
he finds himself to be the subject of meta­
physical research when he meets John and 
Grace Soloman, the owners of the 
Anderson Inn — a very strange place. 
Among its guests are Carl Jung, John 
Lennon, Tennessee Williams, Albert 
Einstein, Gandhi, and Pope Gregory. As 
this group begins to prepare their quest for 
world peace, they realize that they need
Allistair’s help. Not only that, but ulti­
mately, the entire audience will also help 
them achieve their goal.
Allistair was played by Dennis 
Thumpston, a teacher with the Pittsburgh 
Mt. Olivier Intermediate Unit. Although 
he seemed hesitant at first, as the play 
developed Allistair began to realize that 
each one of these illustrious speakers had 
the capacity to change the course of his life 
as well as to improve the world he lived in. 
He began to listen as a the world’s most 
brilliant and philosophical conversation 
unraveled right before his eyes.
One of the first guests to begin speaking 
was Tennessee Williams, played by Jeff 
Thibert, a senior cognitive science major 
and religious studies minor at CMU. He 
posed the question, “Is theater a reflection 
of life, or is life a reflection of theater?” 
Carl Jung, played by Elias Christos, a 
recent graduate of the University of 
Pittsburgh, then began to discuss his per­
ception of energy and understanding the 
capacities of the human mind. He said, 
“All encounters come from a source of 
mass energy. Symbols and images have 
made the human experience tangible and 
accessible to our understanding.” Albert 
Einstein, played by Darren Gardner, a 
recent graduate from the University of 
Pittsburgh with a degree in Theatre Arts, 
responded by saying, “We are on the brink 
of societal upheaval and I have been forev­
er drawn to the understanding of the sub­
conscious mind.”
John Lennon, played by actress Jody 
O’Donnell then stepped in and said, 
“Through music and art, man, we can 
experience eternal love. It’s a heavy trip 
but I think we can do it.”
Allistair, quite overwhelmed by the
CMU students, as well as several participants 
intensity of the discussion said, “I have to 
wake up. Is this all a dream?” He eventu­
ally realized, though, that by truly listen­
ing to the words of each speaker, he would 
begin to see the remarkable ability that 
people possess to invoke change, passion, 
and peace in their lives and the lives sur­
Emily Gensheimer/Photo Staff
from around the area, took part in an interactive reading of ,'Birdbath"on Thursday.
rounding them.
Overall, the play was an interesting and 
unique opportunity that went far beyond 
what one would expect. The audience 
seemed to be enthralled and involved in 
the interactive discussion throughout the 
entire piece. The lesson that Allistair
learned was that he did not need to go to 
sleep for his dreams to begin, or wander 
the mountains in search of the “perfect” 
composition. He was already awake and 
passionate; the challenge lied in recogniz­
ing that passion and awakening the rest of 
the world to strive to do the same.
Cultural Shake-Up brings traditional cultures to the University Center
by Andy Francis
Arts and Living Co-Editor
Although most people are aware of the 
vast diversity that exists on Carnegie 
Mellon’s campus, a lot of them don’t 
know much about the cultural and tradi­
tional aspects of the nations represented 
here. For that reason, Lead and Initiate a 
Networked Campus Community (LINCC) 
and the International Student Union 
organized the Cultural Shake-Up last 
Friday afternoon in Kirr Commons and 
the Merson Courtyard. Present were rep­
resentatives from most if not all of CMU’s 
major cultural organizations, including 
TSA, Hillel, SIAM, and over a dozen
other groups.
The Cultural Shake-Up differed from 
most other festivals of this sort because, 
rather than focusing on one culture’s 
food, customs, and traditions, this event 
was sort of a hodgepodge. In a sense, the 
event reflected the “melting pot” this 
country is often referred to as. There 
wasn’t a rigid schedule for the event; vis­
itors could come and go as they please, 
and pick up a little free ethnic food from 
one of the nine groups that cooked for 
the fair. Senior chemical engineeer 
Suzanne Bleier, who led LINCC’s efforts 
to organize the festival, said that “we 
had a really good turnout” and that in 
the UC “the whole carpeted area was 
filled up.”
At the center of the Cultural Shake-Up 
were the demonstrations and exhibits 
presented by the groups in attendance. 
Bleier noted that the Tae Kwon Do club’s 
martial arts demonstration was one 
example of a time when “people really 
became engaged - it was like ‘look, 
they’re breaking stuff!’. ” Dancing was 
also a big part of the event. Salsa dance 
lessons were provided, and students also 
presented various cultural dances to the 
crowd. First-year students Shaina Stahl 
and Jessica Hofoi put on a display of 
Hawaiian dancing, while Mayur member 
Monica Ullagaddi performed a tradition­
al Indian dance.
Another exhibit common to several of 
the organizations were readings, both of
stories and poetry. The organizers of the 
festival even brought in professional sto­
ryteller Andy Fraenkel for the occasion. 
Senior chemical engineer Holly 
Brosnahan ranked some of the readings 
as highlights of the Cultural Shake-Up, 
explaining that “The stories were pretty 
cool; TSA was good and Andy Fraenkel 
especially did an interesting reading.” 
Fraenkel, a renowned storyteller, regaled 
the crowd with tales from all around the 
world, incorporating Jewish, Native 
American, Asian, and African legends 
and traditions into his tales. Rounding 
out the exhibits were AWAAZ, a twelve- 
piece Indian musical ensemble group rel­
atively new to campus, and a little bit of 
comic relief from senior BHA student
and resident CMU comedienne Jessica 
Glassberg.
Overall, both those who put the 
Cultural Shake-Up together and those 
who attended it seemed very pleased 
with the student turnout as well as the 
presentations from the 15 cultural orga­
nizations in attendance. Bleier pointed 
out that LINCC’s motive behind the event 
was to “try to get people together to join 
forces and try to get to know one anoth­
er. We also wanted to give them a chance 
to show off what they do as well as learn 
a bit about what other ethnic groups on 
campus are doing.” Hopefully, the wide 
variety of people and events presented 
Friday helped them take a step in the 
right direction.
String quartet brings 
Latin American flair to 
classical compositions
by Andy Francis
Arts and Living Co-Editor
The recent explosion of Latin 
pop music, fueled by stars like 
Ricky Martin and Marc Anthony, 
has led a lot of the American pub­
lic to confine the idea of “Latin 
music” to the salsa-dancing, trum­
pets and maracas, polyrhythmic 
sounds heard on the radio and on 
MTV. Of course, this isn’t the case, 
as Latin American classical com­
posers have been making a name 
for themselves for quite some 
time. Among the performers 
bringing their works to life are 
Cuarteto Latinoamericano, a 
Mexican string quartet who 
played a concert in the Mellon 
Auditorium on Saturday, spon­
sored by the CMU School of 
Music.
Formed nearly 20 years ago in 
Mexico, the group consists of 
three brothers: violinists Saúl and 
Arón, and cellist Alvaro Bitrán. 
Rounding out the group is violist 
Javier Montiel. The quartet 
opened with Alfonso Montecino’s 
“String Quartet No.2, Op. 31,” and 
it immediately became apparent 
that this was not the type of music 
I had been expecting. Moody, 
unpredictable, and often melan­
choly, this piece and others relied 
on frequent time changes and the 
virtuosity of the players. This 
opening number seemed to have a 
dramatic flair to it, as the players 
deployed dissonant tones and 
minor keys to lend the perfor­
mance an air of epicness.
As for the performers of
Cuarteto Latinoamericano them­
selves, it was apparent that they 
were highly accustomed to each 
other’s styles. Much of the playing 
required transitions where the 
musicians would stop playing 
temporarily and quickly come 
back in, and the group executed 
the changes with impressive pre­
cision. This element of the quartet 
proved key during the second 
piece, “La venus se va de juerga,” 
which was perhaps the most tech­
nically ambitious and musically 
intriguing of their three selec­
tions. The introduction featured 
remarkable solo turns by the vio­
linists that soon gave way to their 
most cohesive playing of the day. 
The end of the number featured 
the musicians playing scales up 
and down in perfect unison and 
took the show into intermission 
with a Halloween-sounding violin 
flourish.
Following the intermission, the 
quartet returned, accompanied 
this time by pianist Alma 
Petchresky. The addition of the 
fifth instrument shifted the feel of 
the group’s music as they tackled 
the third and final piece, “Quintet 
in F Minor.” At first, the piano 
melodies seemed at odds with the 
strings as the two alternated back 
and forth. The lonely sound of the 
piano clashed with the sweeping 
feel of the strings, and the two 
didn’t seem to be sharing much 
other than a stage. After a few 
minutes, the two began to comple­
ment each other nicely, as 
Petchersky’s piano lent the group 
a fuller sound as they hit the dra-
See CUARTETO, page B2LINCC presented the Cultural Shake-Up in the University Center last Friday. 15 groups attended, displaying the dance, art, and music of their cultures.

---------------------------------------------------

MAKE 
YOUR 
MARK!
FALL 2000 
Computer Education 
Student Seminar Series
Classes are FREE!
Access FundamentalsPhotoShop Fundamentals
November 7 & 9November 1 & 2
6:00 - 8:00 pm5:30 - 7:00 pm
Cyert PC ClusterCyert Mac Cluster
PowerPoint
Excel Formulas,October 18
Functions 8s Charting6:00 - 8:00 pm
October 26Cyert PC Cluster
6:00 - 8:00 pmOR
Cyert PC ClusterOctober 30
3:00 - 5:00 pm
Cyert PC Cluster
HTML Fundamentals,
Tables & GraphicsUNIX Scripting
November 1 & 2October 24, 26, 31 &
5:00 - 7:00 pmNovember 2
Cyert PC Cluster10:30- 11:20 am
ORBaker140E
November 6,8,13 & 15OR
3:30 - 4:20 pmOctober 25, 27,
Baker140ENovember 1 & 3
3:30 - 4:20 pm
Baker140ECarnegie MellonCOMPUTIMI SERVICES
www.cmu.edu/computing/csw
B2 THE TARTAN • OCTOBER 9, 2000Intel location in UC basement tarnishes extracurricular activity headquarters
Less Stress?
By: Emily Landes
When Ralph Nader spoke on our campus last week, 
he said that universities have become no more than 
trade schools, training grounds where students learn 
to be a part of the corporate environment. Personally, I 
didn’t know what he was talking about. I guess here at 
Carnegie Mellon we’ve found the last bastion of acad­
emic exploration purely for the sake of academic 
exploration. How lucky we are that the emphasis at 
CMU has never been on getting a job, but on rebelling, 
questioning and, subsequently, learning.
Obviously, I am being sarcastic. The school I have 
just described is Bizarro Carnegie Mellon, the 
Carnegie Mellon of my imagination. At Bizarro CMU, 
'we don’t put a link for “Corporate Visitors” on the front 
page of our school website, not one class is taught by a 
corporation and the administration laughs when Intel 
asks for space in our University Center’s basement. At 
Bizarro CMU the administration tells Intel that this 
building is the only building on the entire campus that 
is purely for extra-curricular activities, the only one 
that doesn’t have a cluster, and to put a corporation in
its basement would be contrary to the entire purpose 
of a University Center. This is the reason why, at 
Bizarro CMU, there is already a bowling alley, a bar, 
and rooms for student activities in that space.
But, back to reality. As we all know, nothing has been 
done with the 40,000 square feet currently waiting to 
be finished in the basement. The ceiling has exposed 
wiring and pipes, the floor is really just gravel, and no 
walls have even been built. Right now the entire pur­
pose of this prime area, as far as I have seen, is a place 
to put a few of those enormous plastic Coke bottles 
that are used to hold soda cans at large outdoor events.
For this reason, it has been argued that it is to our 
benefit to allow Intel to set up their e-commerce solu­
tion center in our basement. The company is willing to 
invest approximately five million dollars towards reno­
vating the space, which they will then keep for a mini­
mum of three years, and a maximum of five. After this 
time, presumably, we will be able to use the finished 
space for student activities.
This is, of course, no small accomplishment. The uni­
versity gets a much-needed renovation that it didn’t 
want to pay for. It might also get intellectual property 
rights to any of the research done by faculty there and
there is a possibility of student internships, though 
none of this is yet in writing. And the only price that we 
have to pay, according to Dean Michael Murphy, is that 
we have to build yet another corporate alliance of the 
very sort that our university has been based on. 
Further, he says, we should be happy to get this offer; 
a lot of other universities would be equally happy to 
welcome Intel with open arms.
Sadly, this is probably true. But just because our uni­
versity has always had a history of catering to corpo­
rate, not to mention Defense Department, interests, 
that doesn’t mean that we should continue to embrace 
these interests in the future. Just because other univer­
sities would be more than happy to sell space in their 
student unions to the highest bidder, it doesn’t mean 
that we should be happy to do it as well. I think that 
this university has become so accustomed to accepting 
corporate sponsorship that the administration no 
longer even understands why some students might not 
view these corporations as a desirable presence in our 
academic institution.
I do agree that this initiative has its good points, 
namely that eventually this space will be available for 
student groups. But a closer inspection of this claim
yields some interesting results. First of all, Intel is not 
renovating all 40,000 square feet, only the 10^000 that 
it will use. What is the university planning to do with 
those other 30,000 feet? Will we continue to bring in 
corporate sponsors until the entire area is finished? Or 
will we just leave the area unfinished due to our seem­
ing lack of funds?
Yes, I must question it when the administration 
pleads bankruptcy. It seems to me that they are quite 
capable of raising funds for the types of services that it 
values. For example, we are currently in the process of 
raising about four million dollars for a new Career 
Center,' which may be located in the University Center 
as'well.
'Is it any wonder that there is a perception that many 
CMU students are only interested in attending school 
here in order to get a good job? Just look at where the 
administration’s priorities so obviously lie. They are 
raising four million dollars for a new Career Center, 
when we already have an existing center in the base­
ment of Warner Hall. At the same time, they are active­
ly ignoring the needs of students who are trying to 
become involved in campus activities.
See INTEL, page B3
Georgia Tech students 
debate free condoms
(U-WIRE) ATLANTA - With the 
number of sexually active college 
students on the rise across the 
country, many stude nts feel that 
not enough is being done to pre­
vent the spread of sexually trans­
mitted diseases on college campus­
es.
However, at their October 2 
meeting, the Glenn-Cloudman Hall 
Council passed a bill that many 
Georgia Tech students feel will 
help to address issues of unprotect-
ed sex.
The bill, which called for the 
purchase and distribution of con­
doms in both Glenn and Cloudman 
Halls, was proposed by freshman 
Michael Handleman, a Glenn sec­
tion representative. “Most every 
other college provides students 
with condoms,” said Handleman. 
“Georgia Tech is lagging behind in 
ignorance.”
When the bill was presented to 
See CONDOMS, page B3Cuarteto hits all the right notes with Mellon crowd
titans like Bach and Mozart and to1 
see what some of the world’s other 
composers have to offer. The addi­
tion of the piano during the sec­
ond half of the show was a nice 
touch also, as it gave the group a 
chance to show off its virtuoso 
side as well as its more group-ori- 
ented side. Hopefully the quartet 
can continue to expand its already 
broad musical horizons, just like 
the Mellon Auditorium crowd did 
on Saturday.
Lunchtime: Students take a break from the events at the Cultural Shake-Up to grab some food. Nine groups prepared free food for the event.
CUARTETO, from page B1 
matic crescendos that marked the 
performance’s highlights. The 
middle section of “Quintet” had a 
slower feel to it, but Cuarteto 
Latinoamericano came back 
quickly with a rapid-fire passage 
that ended the concert in grand 
fashion.
Cuarteto Latinoamericano gave 
the audience in attendance a good 
opportunity to expand their clas­
sical vocabulary beyond European
Tuesday October 10, Carnegie Mellon University 
Rangos Ballroom, 3-7pIïl

---------------------------------------------------

THE TARTAN • OCTOBER 9, 2000
Columnist calls for students 
to speak out on Intel plan
Georgia Tech council passes condom measure
TUESDA from page B2
There are many student groups who 
are forced to share small offices on the 
yC’s third floor due to lack of room, 
zhile others don’t have any meeting 
pace in the UC at all. Some groups 
have been asking for more room for 
years, specifically asking the university 
about plans for the currently dead area 
that Intel may soon be using. Students 
WRCT, for example, have been ask­
ing the administration for some of the 
space so that they can move their pro­
duction closet across the hall to make 
more room for the station’s close to 
overflowing record library. They claim 
that their repeated requests have been 
^ignored or refused outright due to this 
ilack of funds.
: It is important to note that these stu­
dents, like the majority of the student 
body, did not hear anything about the 
Intel initiative until last week. But the 
university has been looking into this 
deal for months. Why is this the first 
time that students have been informed 
on any kind of wide scale about an
explicitly corporate presence in their 
University Center? It is representative 
of a continuous problem at this school; 
time and again students are informed 
about administrative decisions after it 
appears to be too late to change those 
decisions.
But in this case, we do still have a 
chance. Final papers for the initiative 
have not yet been drawn up. We can 
make sure that our voices are heard. 
Dean Murphy has said that he can 
remove the corporate presence of 
venders hawking credit cards if enough 
students tell him that they are a bigger 
burden than a benefit. Perhaps the 
same can be said of the Intel initiative 
as well. Send those in charge a mes­
sage. Tell Dean Murphy, Provost Mark 
Kamlet, and Chief Financial Officer Jeff 
Bolton how you feel about the Intel ini­
tiative.
Emily Landes would like you to know, 
just in case you need them, that Dean 
Murphy’s email is mmlv, Mark Kamlet’s 
is kamlet and Jeff Bolton’s isjb5c.
CONDOMS, from B2
the hall council, there was much debate as 
to whether the bill was actually needed. 
The proposal called for the spending of $70 
to buy 1,000 condoms from t^ie Student 
Health Center. At first, many members of 
hall council felt that it was frivolous to 
spend $70 on condoms when they were 
available for free to individual students at 
the Health Center. However, as Glenn resi: 
dent Ravi Pentapaty pointed out this is not 
always a logical option. “I think it’s a good 
idea to provide condoms in the dorms, 
because like the presenter said, most people 
don’t want to run to the Health Center at 
two in the morning for a condom,” said 
Pentapaty.
Once the debate on the issue ended and 
the bill was finally voted on, the result was 
almost unanimous support for the purchas­
ing of the condoms, which was a surprise to 
; Smithson. “[From the debate] it sounded 
like a lot of people were against [the bill],” 
Smithson said.
However, after voting, only one represen­
tative opposed the bill. Two more abstained 
from the vote. Glenn section representative 
Ehsan Sasharzadeh felt that he was one of 
the members who changed his opinion on 
the issue during the debate. “At first I was a
little shaky about this issue, but when I hear 
the explanation I saw that it’s very impor­
tant, especially now with all the STD’s, that 
people have easy access to protection,” 
Sasharzadeh said.
Although the purchasing of the condoms 
has been approved, the question remains as 
to how the condoms will be distributed to 
the residents. Initially, Handleman planned 
on placing them in containers in all of the 
bathrooms. However, this plan did not sit 
well with some housing staff members. 
Many of the peer advisors and peer leaders 
felt that if the condoms were left in the 
bathrooms, they would wasted in an imma­
ture manner.
“One of [Housing’s] arguments was that 
we weren’t mature enough to handle it,” 
said Handleman. “Putting them in the 
bathroom is irresponsible, I believe.” said 
Bob Morton, assistant director of Housing. 
He expressed concern that practical jokers 
would abuse the condoms or make them 
unusable. “It’s just not a safe practice. 
There’s a lot of liability there. Whoever pre­
sented the bill will have to figure out the 
best way to distribute them.”
The idea was then proposed to let the PA’s 
and PL’s control the condom distribution, 
but Handleman feels this creates another
barrier to having easy access to protection. 
“I don’t think that anyone should know if 
you’re having sex or any type of sexual 
activity.”
Even though many would feel uncomfort­
able going to their peer leader for a con­
dom, Pentapaty does not agree with this 
view. “I would most definitely feel comfort­
able going to my PL for a condom, because 
if we placed them in the bathroom, I just 
know people would abuse the privilege,” 
said Pentapaty.
Conversely, there are many PL’s and PA’s 
who would not feel comfortable distribut­
ing condoms to their residents. “If I am 
asked to distribute condoms, I will refuse, 
and I will do everything in my power to get 
them out of housing,” said Glenn peer 
leader Tim Hardcastle.
Although there are those who disagree 
with the bill, the majority of the Glenn- 
Cloudman Hall Council agreed with the 
bill, which according to Handleman proves 
a very important point. “If it passes with a 
majority [vote] in hall council, that says 
something, that thè students want it,” said 
Handleman.
“Of all the people who should have access 
[to condoms],” said Handleman, “it should 
be the freshmen.”
Carnegie Almanac
50 YEARS AGO, October 10,1950 - Campaigns for the elections of the 
Class of 1954 officially kicked off, with 36 total candidates running for 
'office. The seats up for grabs were president, secretary, treasurer, and 
Vice-president for each of the three colleges. The campaigning was limit­
ed to one week, as elections were slated for October 17th.
To ensure fairness and equality between the hopefuls, no candidate was 
permitted to spend more than ten dollars on his/her campaign. In addi­
tion, the competitors were allowed to appoint someone to serve as a 
“watcher” at each of the polling locations to monitor the voting and make 
sure no one was stuffing the ballot box. The election chairman noted that 
the Council’s constitution established a chain of command, based on total 
enrollment, for the college vice presidents: engineering and science, then 
fine arts, followed by Margaret Morrison Carnegie College.
25 YEARS AGO, October 7,1975 - The fledgling sport of Orienteering 
'found its way to the Carnegie Mellon campus, as the Pathfinder 
Orienteering Club began competing in meets as far away as Michigan and 
Maryland. The goal of the sport is to obtain a set of control markers hid­
den throughout a course, using a map, compass, and set of directions. The 
Orienteering club at CMU was sponsored by the ROTC department.
The team enjoyed some success, as team member Ed Klemenciz man­
aged to place first in the national competition held in Kalamazoo, 
Michigan. In addition, Klemenciz and teammate Desmond Knight won 
team first place at an invitational meet in Maryland. The CMU team was 
also in the process of organizing a competition to be held at West Deer 
Lake State Park. The team encouraged participation from more members 
of the CMU community, and optimistically predicted that the sport’s pop­
ularity would rise in the same manner as cycling recently had.
10 YEARS AGO, October 8, 1990 - The Faculty and Staff Campaign 
Committee held a reception to make public its plans for the construction 
of a new University Center. Construction on the new facility and demoli­
tion of the old Skibo building were scheduled to begin as early as the sum­
mer of 1991, and was expected to reach completion for the start of the 
1993-1994 academic year.
Complicating the construction plans was a shortage of funds necessary 
for the building to be completed. The estimated cost of the University 
Center was estimated to be about $41 million, of which the university had 
only raised $8 million. CMU President Robert Mehrabian admitted that 
coming up with the additional money would “not be an easy task.” There 
was a chance, though, that the Board of Trustees would authorize the 
beginning of construction even without the entire sum of money.
The architects contracted to design the new facility were from Boston 
firm Michael Dennis and Associates, as well as Pittsburgh’s Urban Design 
Association. Six Carnegie Mellon graduates would contribute to the pro­
ject, including Don Carter, a 1967 Department of Architecture graduate 
serving as one of the principal architects.
FIVE YEARS AGO, October 9,1995 - Just one week after beginning its 
recruiting efforts, the newest fraternity on campus, Sigma Phi Epsilon (Sig 
Ep), initiated its first brothers, who were referred to as the Founding 
Fathers of the CMU chapter. In fact, CMU had already had a Sig Ep chap­
ter many years ago, but it dissolved in 1937.
Sig Ep representatives stressed that the new fraternity would be quite 
different from many of the other Greek houses on campus. In addition to 
adhering to a strict social policy, each member was expected to strive to be 
a “Balanced Man.” Unlike many of the other houses on campus, Sig Ep par­
ties were to be by invitation only, and, in keeping with the fraternity’s 
stanc.? on alcohol, BYOB.
Fraternity leaders discussed a need to decide how Sig Ep would inte­
grate itself with the other Greek organizations. Decisions on whether or 
not to join the Interfraternity Council and Greek Council would be made 
by the Founding Fathers with assistance from local alumni and national 
Sig Ep representatives.
ONE YEAR AGO, October 4, 1999 - Student Senate quickly voted 
down a proposal titled the “Student Publications Standards Act of 1999” 
that would control the editorial content of some campus publications. 
Matthew Monroe, the student Senator who proposed the measure, said 
that he wanted to bring up “the issue of what standards we currently place 
on publications that are funded largely in part by our Student Activities 
Fee.”
The proposal, which would only affect publications funded by the 
Activities Fee with circulations greater than 100 copies, was divided into 
three parts. The measure would prohibit any anonymous writings, outlaw 
editorials attributed to a group rather than an individual, and require pub­
lishers to include printing information.
After numerous complaints and protests from other Senators, the publi­
cations act was struck down within 20 minutes. Senators attacked the 
measure, defending editorials credited to an entire board rather than a 
single person, and labeling the proposal as possible censorship. Senate 
voted to postpone the motion indefinitely, effectively defeating it perma­
nently.
Compiled by 
Andy Francis
Merrill Lynch
Thinking about a Career in Investment Banking?
Join Jeffrey Kaplan, Managing Director, Investment Banking for an 
online discussion of The e-Merging Tech M&A Marketplace.
fonro6nixu 4-caloK $$u.v00Cgv00 Mw Wi6coKr OsUo 
4r’sro ic kkkdkoc1oocd-aU
Thinking about a Career in IT?
Join John McKinley, Global CTO for ah online discussion of Merrill Lynch 
Technology —A Great Opportunity for a Talented Few.
fonro6nixu 4-caloK $.u .v00Cgv00 Mw Wi6coKr OsUo
4r’sro ic fffdfoc1oocdT4U HKaF+mc ca xaF lx
lWWetFeet.com
02000 WetFaat.comSmarter career moves start here.

---------------------------------------------------

product is well designed, if unreadable.
Some of tta appfcrtwnt am ttwwifent to tarn 
»round YHi to cfp#cJ< » <jiAk ttoiriwî.
Funetìonalitv
Familiar Mmwft Offe» products nwk* it«*syw 
bmfm fîtes back «tid forth.
Aesthetics
Value «MwiW
' toocan9«tmer» iBnrçforymtjucfcwitHanother 
:( »’tmilarty cquipptd twndtwkl.Lifespan.
I BaWory frf* fasts jnsftywflll, OHffcuU to upsrata in 
! «mtofflj._______________^
Overall
by Surya Singh
Junior Staffwriter
¦] The CueCat is a personal barcode reader being freely 
¦ distributed by Radio Shack retailers and various other 
media outlets. The product ships with a “convergence 
"cable” and software for using both products.
; In a nutshell, the CueCat (in its original form) is a 
prime example of marketing over logic. The much bal- 
iyhooed product not only forces the user to people toRobotic chocolate
Another morsel of science 
news...A robot could revolu­
tionize your box of chocolates.
A computer scientist at Johns 
Hopkins University has invent­
ed an electronic eye which will 
help robots recognize the dif­
ferent pieces in a box of choco­
lates.
Using three lights, a video 
camera and a computer, the 
system can distinguish a 
smooth dome shaped item, like 
a chocolate covered cherry, 
from a bumpy round one like a 
peanut cluster.
In the future, a candy factory 
robot could use this type of 
electronic eye to tell the differ­
ence between coconut patties, 
caramels, and vanilla creams, 
and could pack a perfectly mixed box of chocolates.
But doesn’t this take all the mystery out of squeezing those 
nougats? Let’s call this new machine the Gump.
Source: National Public Radiol
adapt their method of interacting with the World Wide 
Web, but to surrender their privacy to the product’s 
tracking schemes. The insulted, nay pillaged, user in 
return gets a clunky interface that can be used to save 
a few seconds of typing or the hassle of remembering a 
website. Clearly, this device only serves to help mar­
keting interests, especially poorly-thought ones that 
are unable to understand and properly utilize Internet 
technology.
The installation of this product was fairly simple. It 
involves adding the device (also referred to as a “key­
stroke automator”) to the comput­
ers PS/2 keyboard channel through 
the use of the keyboard adapter on 
the CueCat’s connecting wire. This 
allows the device to “tap” the key­
board’s power feed and to “poke” 
characters at the appropriate time 
(toggled when the software/user 
issues an “ALT+F10” to the device). 
The version of the installer shipped 
with older versions of the product 
involves inane video that insults the 
intelligence of practically any user. 
As a friend of mine put it, “I could 
have suffocated during the install 
because it did not tell me when to 
inhale or exhale.”
The hardware design is meant to 
appeal to unassuming consumers 
through consumer-friendly cute­
ness in the form of resembling a lit­
tle kitty. The hardware itself is not 
very exciting, even the electronics 
design (albeit compact) looks staid, 
especially in comparison to present 
day technological advances. The 
only noteworthy aspect of the elec­
tronics is that each CueCat has a 
hardware-encoded serial number. 
The ergonomics of the product are 
mediocre compared to commercial 
bar code “pens,” as the device feels
like a bulky 
pencil stick.
Moreover, the 
device offers no 
convenient 
power con­
trol/switch and 
thus is always 
displaying its 
reading LEDs.
Finally, the soft­
ware, which is 
officially only 
available for 
Windows PCs,
is equally not The CueCat that is available for free at 
exciting with a generally poor interface.
On the surface, the “convergence cable” seems like a 
good idea. The general concept behind this product is 
to connect a TV to a web-enabled PC through audio 
signals. Through these signals a TV broadcast can 
send URL information directly to a PC. However, this 
requires that the web-enabled PC is close to the TV and 
that the PC is not being used for other tasks. However, 
as this product was not tested direcdy, no opinion was 
formed on its worthiness.
Digital ¡Convergence Corporation is the company 
behind this product. If their press releases and website 
are to be believed, it is led by seasoned executives. 
Nonetheless, the company still feels that it is better to 
force customers to adapt to using their technology 
instead of truly engineering a novel product that adopts 
technology to people’s behavior and needs. It appears 
that the company was a touch naive in their imitation of 
the “AOL model” as this product only serves to covertiy 
obtain product use information on individual con­
sumers and does not, unlike AOL, offer a significant util­
ity/consumer service. As mentioned above, the device 
only has native support for Windows products. The 
Linux community has discovered a great deal about this 
product in its attempt to add support for this product. It 
appears that the company’s legal team has targeted indi­
viduals who have written drivers for the product and/or
Sara Stille/News Edit»
the local RadioShack or online at www.getcuecat.com 
have extended the usefulness ot the product trom the ill- 
conceived “scan a bar-code to surf’ metaphor.
The CueCat is not without merit. It appears that 
one innovative application for, this device is to use it 
as a personal bar-coding tool to create a database o 
books (through the ISBN barcode), CDs (although 
the UPC bar-code is not related to the hash used by 
CDDB), or products in general by using the afore­
mentioned “unofficial” software to convert this into 
an independent bar-code wand. While this applica­
tion may be “nifty,” it is certainly not the revolution­
ary “change in Internet navigation” that is touted by 
its promoters. The reality is that most users are bet­
ter served with the traditional “point-and-click” par­
adigm.
DigitahConvergence’s new product falls far short of 
the great hyperbole that surrounds its promotion. 
Only through the use of “unofficial software” can the 
personal bar-code reader application be realized. 
Intelligent advertisers realize that the key is to create 
and clearly market a simple URL to associate with their 
product and that this is simpler and more effective 
than a complex, convoluted bar-code scheme.
In conclusion, the CueCat is worth what it costs- 
However, with a few utilities and some luck, it can be 
transformed into a useful accessory that would make 
any geek proud.
Science Technology
9 October 2000THE TARTANService provides email address updates
by Sriram Vaidhyanathan
Junior Staffwriter
How often has the following hap­
pened to you: One night, you have 
this sudden inspiration to contact a 
long lost friend halfway across the 
globe. As is the custom, you zip off 
a quick email to an address, only to 
eventually find that either that 
address doesn’t exist anymore, or 
that your friend never received the 
.email. Why? They changed their 
,email address an eternity ago, but 
being as forgetful as they were, sim­
ply failed to inform you.
ActiveNames, a web-based service 
(http://www. activenames. com), pro­
vides an effective and efficient solu- 
don to this eternal bugbear behind 
email. A surprisingly large number 
of people change their email 
addresses quite frequently, and at 
the same time, an equally large 
number of contacts are lost in the 
process. People registered with 
ActiveNames have the advantage of 
.being notified of such changes auto­
matically.
The website itself is quite a user- 
iriendly, comfortable setup, with 
clear and concise instructions on 
how to go about downloading the 
plug-in and registering with 
ActiveNames. The free plug-in, 
once installed, automatically 
detects changes in email addresses 
of recipients, provided that the
recipient is also registered with 
ActiveNames. A pop-up window 
appears, infprming the sender that 
the email address of the recipi­
ents) has changed. Manual and 
automatic settings are available to 
determine whether the sender 
should be able to automatically 
send to the new address or not. One 
could use the manual option effec­
tively as a privacy measure, shut­
ting out unwanted email to the new 
address. The ActiveNames plug-in 
also has the capability of automati­
cally sensing email from popular 
email clients such as Microsoft 
Outlook, Netscape, and Eudora to 
web-based email such as Yahoo! 
Mail, Hotmail and AOL, not to men­
tion a feature to configure other 
SMTP clients as well. Tests using 
Hotmail and Microsoft Outlook 
were quite efficient, with the pop­
up window appearing as soon as 
the recipient’s address was deter­
mined to be an outdated one. The 
plug-in can detect new addresses 
being used on the same PC, and 
gives the user the option to update 
to this address on the ActiveNames 
network.
Tara McBride, a representative 
from ActiveNames said, “This free 
service is great for students, for 
whom studies have shown as many 
as 25% change their email address­
es at least once a year. The service 
works somewhat like Instant 
Messaging, in that a pop-up screen
alerts users of incoming requests 
for new email addresses on a one- 
on-one basis, allowing users to 
screen who receives their new 
email addresses, and more impor­
tantly, who does not.” She said that 
the service will be really useful for 
students and the general public 
alike, in that it allows them a quick, 
easy, and free method for staying 
connected to desirable email corre­
spondents and an easy way of fil­
tering out unwanted and annoying 
incoming email.
The website can be easily navi­
gated by novice and expert alike; 
the FAQ section explains the struc­
ture and working of the service in 
quite a helpful manner. Tech sup­
port is also available, in addition 
to a quick tour of the features 
offered by the service from the 
main page.
As the slogan says, “Never lose an 
email contact again!”, ActiveNames 
provides more than just another 
Internet add-on for your PC; it’s 
definitely an essential tool for peo­
ple who rely frequently on email. 
Privacy concerns are effectively 
dealt with by the service, as it is 
user-friendly and secure.
One downfall, however, is that it 
requires that both parties be regis­
tered with ActiveNames. The ser­
vice might catch on for students, 
but coordinating such an effort is 
undoubtedly a difficult task in the 
short term.
Bryan Kaplan/Photo Editor
TELfair covered new technology in the University Center last Friday. TELfair showcased faculty work that 
blended technology with teaching in an effort to elevate proven teaching methods to new heights. Faculty 
displayed ways of meeting the challenge of adopting new technologies to improve the quality of the learn­
ing that takes place in their courses.
Review Corner: Cassiopeia HandheldMatt Brun
The Cassiopeia Handheld PC from Casio is 
designed as a combination between the popular 
Palm Pilot series and a full-fledged laptop. Although 
it does have some interesting and practical features, 
the overall design package includes far too many of 
the worse features of the two products it attempts to 
bridge to be as useful as either.
The actual, physics 
not innovative or 
flashy. Measuring 
7.25" x 3.75" x 1", 
the Cassiopeia lacks 
the total go-any- 
where freedom of 
the pocket-sized 
Palm Pilot, but easi­
ly fits into a purse or 
carrying bag that a 
laptop cannot.
Weight is not an 
issue either: At less 
than two pounds, 
the Cassiopeia adds 
little to the existing 
clutter in a crowded 
backpack.
Expansion slots 
on the Cassiopeia 
include a ROM 
extension used to 
hold extra program 
data as well as room 
for a single memory 
disc, video card, or 
wireless modem.
The programs 
included with the 
reviewed package 
that used the ROM 
extension port 
required that the cartridge be in the slot for the pro­
gram to run. Since swapping cartridges requires re­
booting the device, users who anticipate using mul­
tiple programs on a regular basis will have to deal 
, with these delays as well as carry the cartridges with 
them.
While a wireless modem or video card may be a 
more interesting feature than more memory, don’t 
expect to use them for long. Most accessory cards 
will not run under battery power, though most 
Cassiopeia users will spend most of the time using 
an AC adapter anyway. Though it only takes two AA 
batteries to operate, a fresh set of batteries only last­
ed a little over three hours during testing. A memo­
ry card would also be a worthwhile use of the slot as 
the default setting only allows eight megabytes of 
storage space (this can be adjusted up to 16 
megabytes at the expense of program memory).
The Cassiopeia’s display screen also features a few 
glitches that combine to be more than a little annoy­
ing. The monochrome display is very sharp, but the 
limited color range makes distinguishing some 
objects very difficult (solitaire fans will have to lear 
to learn to recognize suits by shape, not color). To 
make matters worse, the display is nearly impossible 
to see unless the light source in the room is shining 
almost directly on it. Glare is not a big issue, but 
users will find themselves constantiy struggling to 
find a balanced angle where they can see the display 
without hiding it in their own shadow. The fact that 
the viewable area is twice as wide as it is tall causes
some unusual problems as well. Most programs han­
dle the difference well, but others show extreme dis­
tortion. A graphing calculator application, 
example, repeatedly drew graphs with 
unbalanced scales for the x and y-axes. 
to match the scales squished the imagé into a quar­
ter of the screen, making the graph even more
The Cassiopeia does 
feature a single 
speaker above the 
keyboard, but none 
of the included soft­
ware utilized it. In 
fact, the option to 
have the schedule 
book’s alert mes­
sages include sound 
was grayed out.
The two input meth­
ods, the keyboard 
and stylus, work rea­
sonably well, but are 
marred ' by some 
recurring faults. The 
keyboard has a stan­
dard PC layout with­
out function keys or 
a numerical pad, but 
is so small that typ­
ing has to be- done 
via the two-finger 
method. This is a 
shame, since the 
base package does 
not feature any sort 
of writing-recogni- 
tion software, forc­
ing all text entry to 
go through the key-Bryan Kaplan/Photo Editor & Chris Messina/Online Design Editor
board.
Control-wise, the stylus is very precise and works 
just like a mouse (you can even right-click with the 
ALT key). The entire device has a tendency to rock 
backwards when you touch the screen, however, so a 
quick tap often does not register as an input. This is 
especially evident when trying to double-tap an 
icon. Even after adjusting the speed setting to your 
own preference, the stylus fails to register a double­
tap often enough for a user to favor just hitting the 
enter key.
The Cassiopeia is run by Windows CE, which has 
all the same menus, options, and settings as Windows 
95/98 (though the only game included is solitaire). 
Also included is Microsoft Pocket Office, which 
includes Pocket Word, Pocket Excel, Pocket Oudook, 
and Pocket PowerPoint Viewer. Word, Excel, and 
Outlook work exacdy like the desktop versions, but 
PowerPoint Viewer, as the name implies, does not 
allow the creation of new presentations, or even the 
editing of existing ones rather, just viewing. Using 
the included ActiveSync software and USB cable, the 
Cassiopeia quickly connects to any desktop PC, allow­
ing the user to copy files back and forth or synchro­
nize schedules and address books.
On the whole, the physical problems of the display 
and input devices are maddeningly frustrating, but 
aren’t the main setbacks of the device. The 
Cassiopeia’s limited software capabilities make it 
useful as little more than an overpowered schedule 
book.
CueCat attempts to use infrared and optical technology for internet scans

---------------------------------------------------

THE TARTAN • OCTOBER 9. 2000
Befre you consider blowing off your student loan, consider the consequences. Phone ca 
from bill.collectors. Withholding your wages. A bad credit rating that can get you 
turned dtfm for credit cards, car loans and mortgages. Don’t do something 
you’ll regret, when PHEAA can help you keep on track.
I parn more at or call 1.800.328.0355
Crvttiùtg / ùxesx io fùiucatum
ENDER
WnF-icsarI 
8ocsKoUorcI 
Moi-o a1 wsrnI
Sometimes youj
can assassinate 
a leader 
without firing 
a shot.
GARY OLDMAN JOAN ALLEN JEFF BRIDGES CHRISTIAN SLATER
IKIiiiiUHlralinniraiaiH Iffil
JKB SjlüüMllü ai
a i ihmbb&i. m m
Coming Soon To A Theatre Near You
“We need to have a vision and try 
to develop tools that improve the 
body of knowledge.” It is important 
to provide these services, Brackett 
said. “We are happy to assist them, 
and Tech is looking to expand these 
services to 15 of the computer cen­
ter labs throughout campus,” he 
said.
Larroy praised the special ser­
vices lab. “They do everything to 
get you access to everything you 
need,” he said. The technology for 
visual impairment has come a long 
way, Brackett said. There are sever­
al programs available to help the 
visually impaired.
Jaws for Windows reads what is 
on the computer screen to you, 
Brackett said. The program gives 
you information on how to navi­
gate programs that are running.
Open Book is a program that 
scans reading material into the 
computer, he said. It is used specif­
ically for reading assistance.
This program will read the 
scanned pages to you, he said. It 
will also highlight the words it is 
reading, so users with partial 
vision can follow along. The pro­
gram’ Zoomtext increases the size 
of objects on-screen. Televisions 
change the colors of the text to 
make reading easier.
Larroy said Tech lacks assistance 
for visually impaired students in 
the classroom. “Not all professors 
are willing to make accommoda­
tions,” he said. He said some pro­
fessors assume students who need 
accommodations can’t handle the 
work. “They think you’re looking 
for an easy way out,” he said. 
Larroy said much of the faculty 
needs training on how to teach stu­
dents with disabilities. “The key is 
education,” he said.
Joyce Green, a graduate student 
in hospitality and tourism manage­
ment, suffers from macular degen­
eration. This visual impairment, 
which she has experienced for 28 
years, is a blockage in the focal 
point of the eye. She is classified as 
legally blind. Green compares her 
visual impairment to dying. “You 
lose a particular lifestyle and have 
to move into another,” she said, “or 
you lose your whole self.”
Students with visual impair­
ments need extra time because of 
the difficulties with the strength of 
eye muscles, Angle said.
Science and Technology Briefs
NIH Grants $8.6 
million to PSC
ThJ Pittsburgh Supercomputing Center (PSC) 
has deceived $8.6 million from the National 
»tiiites of Health (NIH) to renew the PSC pro­
in biomedical supercomputing. The grantInstigrar
cove s five years and supports work by PSC scien­
tists'applying high-performance computing and 
comnunications to research in biomedicine. It also 
fund: PSC’s efforts to provide computational 
resoirces, consulting, and training to biomedical 
researchers around the country.
Re:ent biomedical research at PSC includes> 
notalle findings for the protein-folding problem, a 
majo challenge of molecular biology. Scientists 
seekto uncover the rules governing relationships 
betwien a protein’s sequence of amino-acids and 
its folded shape, information that would permit 
drug? !o be custom-engineered for particular pur­
poses. \
Projects supported by the new NIH grant will 
include: developing improved methods to deter- 
! mine structure and thermodynamic properties of 
proteins with Charles Brooks, Scripps Research 
Institute applying statistical and signal processing 
methbdsto elucidate the cooperative behavior of 
neurons, with Tai Sing Lee and Rob Kass, Center for 
the Neural Basis of Cognition, University of 
Pittsbu;gn and Carnegie Mellon; and developing a 
databa|e;of pathology images and automated tech­
niques for database searching, with Dr. Michael 
Becich¡University of Pittsburgh Medical School.
The (SC is a joint effort of Carnegie Mellon and 
the Iniversity of Pittsburgh together with 
Westirjhouse Electric. It is supported by several 
federa agencies, the Commonwealth of 
PennsHvania, and private industries.
CMU expands INI to 
meet demands
The College of Engineering is expanding its 
Informtion Networking Institute (INI) to meet the 
demanp of growing Internet technologies, includ­
ing higi-speed networking, Internet security and 
wireles|mobile computing. To accomplish this, the 
INI willjiow be under the auspices of the Electrical 
and Coiputer Engineering (ECE) Department.
Durii?; the past year, the ECE Department has 
hired nW faculty in the areas of networking and 
wireles that are two strategic areas of interest to 
the INI.
“The Information Networking Institute has 
grown p be a very important component of educa­
tion in ;M)rmation technology, and its integration 
of engireering, computer science and business 
makes iti unique program at a national level,” said 
John L Anderson, dean of the College of 
Engineeing.
The III developed the wireless Andrew system
over the past few years. It has been a leader in 
developing mobile applications for emergency 
response, health care, and systems for the mining 
and construction industry.
The INI was established in 1989 by the College of 
Engineering in CIT, the School of Computer 
Science, and the Graduate School of Industrial 
Administration. The institute awards a master’s 
degree in information .networking to about 30 stu­
dents a year.
Some of the institute’s work and research has 
been sponsored by a variety of information tech­
nology providers, including AT&T, Digital 
Equipment Corp., Nippon Mining, Lucent 
Technologies, Caterpillar, and Daimler-Chrysler.
Second startup job 
fair attracts over 
100 companies
The second annual startup job fair will be held 
this Friday sponsored by ESITE and 
CollegeHire.com. Over 100 startup and small to 
midsize companies will be attending this year’s job 
fair.
The event will be this Friday from 10 - 5 pm in the 
University Center. Students can browse the various 
booths.
ESITE is a student-driven organization dedicated 
to promoting technology entrepreneurship at 
Carnegie Mellon University. They were formed in 
spring 1999 and have made an impact on the cam­
pus community since then. Last year’s events 
included multiple speakers on campus and the first 
Startup Job Fair.
Siebel Systems 
creates scholarship
Siebel Systems recently announced a $2.5 mil­
lion gift to the School of Computer Science to 
establish five fellowships. The awardees will be 
known as Siebel Scholars and will receive $25,000 
each for educational expenditures.
The Seibel Scholars are computer science doctor­
al students Frank Dellaert and Jovan Popovic, 
Rayid Gharri, a master’s student in the Center for 
Automated Learning and Discovery, Craig Olinsky, 
a master’s student in the Language Technologies 
Institute, and Jeffrey Smith, a doctoral student in 
the Robotics Institute!
Siebel’s Vice President for Finance Justin Dooley 
said the gift recognizes the excellent reputation 
Carnegie Mellon has in the field of computer sci­
ence.
There will be a reception for the students at the 
end of the month at the University of Chicago.
Compiled by 
Sriram Gollapalli
Virginia Tech works to bridge the gap 
for the visually impaired to see
(U-WIRE) BLACKSBURG, Va. - 
Individuals with visual impair­
ments face daily challenges most 
people do not, and the office of the 
Dean of Students is offering help to 
those in need.
Assistant Dean of Students Susan 
Angle has been working with 
Virginia Tech for six years helping 
students with disabilities.
Students with visual impair­
ments come to the Dean of 
Students’ office for assistance, 
Angle said. “In the event a student 
needs something that is above and 
beyond what they are currently 
using, our office is a good starting 
point,” she said. “It can be hard for 
a student to negotiate on their own 
for special equipment.”
There are currently seven visual­
ly impaired students who have cho­
sen to come to the department for 
assistance, Angle said. “We suspect 
that there is a larger number out 
there,” she said.
Students who come to their 
office for assistance must bring 
documentation from their doctor 
indicating a level of visual impair­
ment, Angle said. They will then 
interview the student and discuss 
what accommodations will be 
needed.
“Most students come here with a 
really large knowledge base of 
what is helpful and what they can 
use,” Angle said. “Students are very 
good about sub-advocating for 
themselves.”
Edwin Larroy, a higher education 
and student affairs administration 
graduate student who has a visual 
impairment, said he is pleased with 
the Dean of Students office. “They 
are pretty comprehensive and do a 
lot of advocacy for you,” he said.
Hal Brackett, lab manager of 
Newman Library’s special services 
lab, works with visually impaired 
students and faculty at Tech. “I 
show them the tools and allow 
them to pick the ones they would 
like to learn about and use in their 
academic endeavors,” he said.
Individuals are allowed to use 
the lab once they are trained on 
specific tools they want to use, 
Brackett said. They are on their 
own after that. “We don’t hold 
their hand,” Brackett said. “We are 
available if they need help, but we 
are looking to expand the indepen­
dence of the students.
“Their eyes are constantly shift­
ing to and fro, and it takes them 
longer to read.” The extra time 
required is stressful, Green said. “It 
usually takes three times the 
amount of time for me to perform 
or do whatever someone else is 
doing because I have to do so many 
extra steps,” she said. “But do you 
know what’s more frustrating? 
When people see me, they don’t 
realize that I have a vision impair­
ment.” Visual impairment is a hid­
den disability, Larroy said. “People 
don’t acknowledge it and aren’t as 
understanding,” he said.
Having a visual impairment is 
not easy because there is a certain 
point when you are going to need 
something, Green said. People will 
initially do something for you when 
you tell them about your visual 
impairment. Green said. However, 
those same people will stop helping 
after the first few times.
You also have to make sure peo­
ple don’t further handicap you, he 
said. “If you allow that to happen, it 
takes away some of your strength 
and independence,” he said.
Tech hired Virgil Cook, who is 
visually impaired, in 1963 as an 
English professor. This was before 
the first federal law preventing 
employers from discriminating in 
hiring because of disabilities.
“They offered me the job at the 
interview and didn’t wait to thrash 
out the decision,” Cook said. He 
said Tech has always been 
extremely supportive. Cook finds 
it difficult to get to know his stu­
dents. “I don’t remember people 
by their voices, and it’s hard when 
you only associate with them a 
select number of times a week,” he 
said.
Students aren’t likely to question 
if he’s going to be able to handle 
teaching, Cook said. Students 
might say that they were a little 
surprised or uneasy at first when 
they find out he’s blind, he said.
“Computer technology has 
helped, because it’s a lot easier to 
get the needed texts and to print 
them out on a Braille embosser,” 
Cook said.
Cook’s students submit all of 
their work through email. Other 
departments help pay the costs for 
Cook’s special needs. “The support 
has always been excellent,” Cook 
said.
You have your reasons.
For a recorded message of 
current rate information, call 
1-800-4US BOND 
1-800-487-2663
&&SLI<SAViNGS(
'"AmericaA Jxiblic service of lhi> newspaper
PUBLIC COMPANY LOOKING 
TO PROVIDE CAPITAL & 
MANAGERIAL ASSISTANCE
to young companies or entrepre­
neurs with products or workable 
concepts in the areas of wireless 
communications, internet 
software/hardware, fiberoptic 
technology, or medical 
instrumentation.
Please contact:
Modern Technology 
Corp. fax (718) 469-3292. 
Phone (718) 469-3132/4. 
Email:arthurjay@ mindspring.com

---------------------------------------------------

FALL 2000 FINAL EXAM SCHEDULE
Biological Scloncos 
03121 A MODERN BIOLOGY
03231 A BIOCHEMISTRY I
03330 A GENETICS
03380 A VIROLOGY
03438 A PHYSCL BIOCHEMISTRY
03439 A INTRO TO BIOPHYSICS
03738 A PHYSCL BIOCHEMISTRY
03871 A STRUCTURL BIOPHYSICS
Human-Computor Interaction Institute 
05432 A CG MDL & INTL TUT SY
05610 A INTRO TO HCI
05630 A PRGMG USABLE INTFCE
05631 A SFTWR ARC USRINTRFC
05832 A CG MDL S INTL TUT SY
Chemical 
06100 Lee 
06221 A 
06321 A 
06323 A 
06422 A
06703 A 
06708 A 
06717 A
Engineering
1 INTRO TO CHEMENGR 
THERMODYNAMICS 
CHEM ENGR THERMDYNMC 
HEAT & MASS TRANSFER 
CHEM REACTION ENGRNG 
PHYSCHEMMACROMOL 
ADV FLUID DYNAMICS 
ADV PRCSSDYNMC CTRL 
BIOTCH & ENVRN PRCSS
Chemistry 
09103 Lee 1 
09105 Lee 1
09105 Lee 2
09106 Lee 1 
09206 Lee 1 
09217 Lee 1 
09221 Lee 1 
09344 Lee 1 
09348 Lec1 
09509 A
ATOMS MOL CHEM CHNG 
INTRO MOD CHEMSTRYI 
INTRO MOD CHEMSTRY I 
MODERN CHEMISTRY II 
PHYS PRINANALYCHEM 
ORGANIC CHEMISTRY I 
LABI: INTRCHMYANL 
QUAN PRINC PHY CHEM 
INORGANIC CHEMISTRY 
PHY CHEM MACROMOLEC
Center for Automated Learning and Discovery 
10601 A MACHINE LEARNING
Language Technology Institute 
11551 A SPEECH RECOGNITION
11682 A LANG TECHNOLOGIES
11551 A SPEECH RECOGNITION
11711 A ALGORITHMS FOR NLP
11751 A SPEECH RECOGNITION
11791 A SOFTWR ENGRNG FOR IT
11791 B SOFTWR ENGRNG FOR IT
Civil and 
12100 A 
12251 A 
12271 A 
12331 A 
12411 A 
12611 A 
12631 A 
12651 A 
12704 A 
12706 A 
12720 A 
12740 A 
12751 A
Environmental Engineering 
INTRO CIV &ENV ENG 
INTRO ENVIR ENGIN 
IN CO AP CIV ENV ENG 
SOLID MECHANICS 
ENGINEERNG ECONOMICS 
PROJCT MNGMNT CONSTR 
STRUCTURAL DESIGN 
AIR QUALITY ENGIN 
PR EST MTHD ENG SYS 
CIV SYS INV PLN PRCE 
WATER RESOURCE CHEM 
CAE TOOL
ADVTPCS AIR QUALITY
Computer Science
15151 Lee 1 MATH FOUNDATIONS CS
15200 Led DATA STRUCTURES
15211 Lee 1 FUND DATA STRUCT ALG
15212 Lee 1 PRINCIPLES PROGRAMMG
15213 Led INTRO COMP SYSTEMS
15312 Led PROG LANG DES & PROC
15381 A ARTFLINT REP PR SLV
15384 A ROBOTIC MANIPULATION
15391 A TECH CONSULT COMUNTY
15399 Lee 1 CONSTRUCTIVE LOGIC
15411 A COMPILER DESIGN
15412 A OP SYS DESIGN & IMPL
15413 A SOFTWARE ENGINEERING
15415 A DATABASE APPLICATNS
15451 Lee 1 ALGORITHM DES & ANLS
15462 A COMPUTER GRAPHICS 1
15499 A SPEC TOPICS COMP SCI
15499 B SPEC TOPICS COMP SCI
15681 A MACHINE LEARNING
15781 A MACHINE LEARNING
15812 A SEMNTCS SEQ PARL PRO
15849 A ADVTPCS COMP SYSTMS
15859 B ADV TOPCS IN THEORY
15886 A CGNTV PROC & PRB SLV
Robotics
16720 A COMPUTER VISION
AUTO MULTIROBOT SYS
Softwnro Engineering
17651 A MODELS SOFTWR SYSTMS
17751 A MODELS SOFTWR SYSTMS
Electrical and 
18100 Lee 1 
18200 Lee 1 
18220 Led 
18240 Led 
18316 A 
18322 Led 
18345 A 
18347 Led 
18396 Led 
18501 A 
18512 A 
18550 A 
18748 A 
18756 A 
18758 A 
18765 A 
18791 A
Computer Engineering 
INTRO ELEC COMP ENGR 
MATH FNDTN ELEC ENG 
FUND OF ELEC ENGR 
FUND OF COMPUT ENGR 
INDATASTOR SYSTCH 
ANAL/DES DGTL CIRC 
INTR TELECOM NETWRKS 
INTRO TO COMPUT ARCH 
SIGNALS AND SYSTEMS 
ELECTROMECHANICS 
SEMICONDCTR DEVCS if 
FUND OF COMM SYSTEMS 
DEPEND SYSTEM DESIGN 
PACSWTCNG COMPNETW 
WIRELESS COMMUNCATNS 
DIG SYS TST & TST DS 
DGTL SIGNAL PROCI 
SP TP MAGNTC DEVICES
Fri. December 15 01:00p.m.-04:00p.m. 
Fri. December 15 05:30p.m.-08:30p.m. 
Wed. December 20 05:30p.m.-08:30p,m. 
Mon. December 18 08:30a.m.-11:30a.m. 
Fri. December 1501:00p.m.-04:00p.m. 
Mon. December 18 08:30a.m.-11:30a.m. 
Fri. December 15 01:00p.m.-04:00p.m. 
Fri. December 15 08:30a,m.-11:30a.m.
Wed. December 20 08:30a.m.-11:30a.m. 
Tue. December 19 08:30a.m.-11:30a.m. 
Thu. December 14 08:30a.m.-11:30a.m. 
Mon. December 18 01:00p,m.-04:00p.m. 
Wed. December 20 08:30a.m.-11:30a.m.
Fri. December 15 05:30p.m.-08:30p.m. 
Thu. December 14 05:30p.m.-08:30p.m. 
Thu. December 21 08:30a.m.-11:30a.m. 
Fri. December 15 05:30p.m.-08:30p.m. 
Tue. December 19 01:00p.m.-04:00p.m. 
Thu. December 14 05:30p.m.-08:30p.m. 
Fri. December 15 01:00p.m.-04:00p.m. 
Thu. December 14 08:30a.m.-11:30a.m. 
Mon. December 18 05:30p.m.-08:30p.m.
Fri. December 15 05:30p.m.-08:30p.m. 
Mon. December 18 08:30a.m.-11:30a.m. 
Mon. December 18 08:30a.m.-11:30a.m. 
Wed. December 20 01:00p.m.-04:00p.m. 
Mon. December 18 05:30p.m.-08:30p.m. 
Tue. December 19 08:30a.m.-11:30a.m. 
Thu. December 14 05:30p.m.-08:30p.m. 
Mon. December 18 08:30a.m.-11:30a.m. 
Thu. December 14 08:30a.m.-11:30a.m. 
Thu. December 14 05:30p.m.-08:30p.m.
Fri. December 15 01:OOp.m.^M:OOp.m.
Thu. December 14 08:30a.m.-11:30a.m. 
Fri. December 15 08:30a.m.-11:30a.m. 
Fri. December 15 01:00p.m.-04:00p.m. 
Thu. December 14 08:30a.m.-11:30a.m. 
Fri. December 15 01:00p.m.-04:00p.m. 
Mon. December 18 08:30a.m.-11:30a.m. 
Mon. December 18 08:30a.m.-11:30a.m.
Wed. December 20 08:30a.m.-11:30a.m. 
Fri: December 15 01:00p.m.-04:00p.m. 
Tue. December 19 08:30a.m.-11:30a.m. 
Thu. December 14 05:30p.m.-08:30p.m. 
Thu. December 21 08:30a.m.-11:30a.m. 
Wed. December 20 08:30a.m.-11:30a.m. 
Tue. December 19 01:00p.m.-04:00p.m. 
Fri. December 15 08:30a.m.-11:30a.m. 
Thu. December 14 08:30a.m.-11:30a.m. 
Thu. December 21 01:00p.m.-04:00p.m. 
Wed. December 20 08:30a.m.-11:30a.m. 
Fri. December 15 08:30a.m.-11:30a.m. 
Fri. December 15 08:30a.m.-11:30a.m.
Fri. December 15 05:30p.m.-08:30p.m. 
Mon. December 18 01:00p.m.-04:00p.m. 
Tue. December 19 01:00p.m.-04:00p.m. 
Mon. December 18 08:30a.m.-11:30a.m. 
Thu. December 14 05:30p.m.-08:30p.m. 
Fri. December 15 08:30a.m.-11:30a.m. 
Thu. December 14 08:30a.m.-11:30a.m. 
Thu. December 14 01:00p.m.-04:00p.m. 
Fri. December 15 08:30a.m.-11:30a.m. 
Tue. December 19 05:30p.m.-08:30p.m. 
Thu. December 2101:00p.m.-04:00p.m. 
Mon. December 18 01:00p.m.-04:00p.m. 
Thu. December 14 05:30p.m.-08:30p.m. 
Fri. December 15 05:30p.m.-08:30p.m. 
Mon. December 18 08:30a.m.-11:30a.m. 
Tue. December 19 01:00p.m.-04:00p.m. 
Fri. December 15 05:30p.m.-08:30p.m. 
Fri. December 15 08:30a.m.-11:30a.m. 
Fri. December 15 01:00p.m.-04:00p.m. 
Fri. December 15 01:00p.m.-04:00p.m. 
Mon. December 18 08:30a.m.-11:30a.m. 
Thu. December 14 08:30a.m.-11:30a.m. 
Fri. December 15 08:30a.m.-11:30a.m. 
Thu. December 14 05:30p,m.-08:30p.m.
Thu. December 14 01:00p.m.-04:00p.m. 
Mon. December 18 08:30a.m.-11:30a.m.
Fri. December 15 08:30a.m.-11:30a.m. 
Mon. December 18 08:30a.m.-11:30a.m.
Fri. December 15 05:30p.m.-08:30p.m. 
Thu. December 14 05:30p.m.-08:30p.m. 
Fri. December 15 08:30a.m.-11:30a.m. 
Fri. December 15 05:30p.m.-08:30p.m. 
Tue. December 19 05:30p.m.-08:30p.m. 
Fri. December 15 05:30p.m.-08:30p.m. 
Wed. December 20 01:00p.m.-04:00p.m. 
Wed. December 20 08:30a.m.-11:30a.m. 
Mon. December 18 05:30p.m.-08:30p.m. 
Tue. December 19 01:00p.m.-04:00p.m. 
Wed. December 20 01:00p.m.-04:00p.m. 
Mon. December 18 08:30a.m.-11:30a.m. 
Fri. December 15 08:30a.m.-11:30a.m. 
Fri. December 15 05:30p.m.-08:30p.m. 
Thu. December 2101:00p.m.-04:00p.m. 
Mon. December 18 08:30a.m.-11:30a.m. 
Thu. December 14 01:00p.m.-04:00p.m. 
Fri. December 15 01:00p.m.-04:00p.m.
UC McConomy 
WEH7500 
HHB131 
DH1217 
MI 355 
SH 324 
MI 355 
MI 355
Architecture 
48210 ASTATICSFri. December 15 08:30a.m.-11:30a.m.MM 103
48240 AHISSRVYWLDARCURBMon. December 18 01:00p.m.-04:00p.m.MM103SMMA14
48312 ASITE ENGRNG & FNDTNSFri. December 15 08:30a.m.-11:30a.m.WEH 7500
48342 ABUILDING & EVENTTue. December 19 01:00p.m.-04:00p.m.CFA 206A
48444 AHENRY HORNBOSTELThu. December 14 01:00p.m.-04:00p.m.DH 1209
48570 AASIAN ARCHITECTUREMon. December 18 08:30a.m.-11:30a.m.CFAA6
48756 AOBJ-ORNTAPPDEVCADWed. December 20 08:30a.m.-11:30a.m.CFA206A
PH A18C
Drama 
54165 AINTRO SND DSGNTHRIMon. December 18 08:30a.m.-11:30a.m.PH A18A
BH A51.BHA53, BHA5454177 ATEXT TO STAGEWed. December 20 05:30p.m.-08:30p.m.WEH 7500
NSH130554281 AHISTORY OF DRAMAFri. December.15 05:30p.m.-08:30p.m.PH 125C
WEH 540354281 BHISTORY OF DRAMAFri. December 15 05:30p.m.-08:30p.m.PHA18A
PH A18C54437 AACTING IVMon. December 18 08:30a.m.-11:30a.m.BH 235B
54765 AINTRO SND DSGNTHRIMon. December 18 08:30a.m.-1 l!30a.m.PHA18A
DH 1212&DH 1217 
MM 103
Music 
57151 APRINCPL COUNTERPOINTMon. December 18 05:30p.m.-08:30p.m.CFAM157
DH 111257151 BPRINCPL COUNTERPOINTMon. December 18 05:30p.m.-08:30p.m.CFAM160
DH 111257152 AHARMONY IWed. December 20 08:30a.m.-11:30a.m.CFAM157
DH 111257152 BHARMONY IWed. December 20 08:30a.m.-11:30a.m.CFA M160
DH 111257155 AADVANCED HARMONY IWed. December 20 08:30a.m.-11:30a.m.CFA 102
DHA31757173 CSURVEY WEST MUS HISTThu. December 14 05:30p.m.-08:30p.m.CFA 102
DH 121757306 AWORLD MUSICMon. December 18 08:30a.m.-11:30a.m.MM 127
DH 121757331 APRNCPLS OF EDUCATIONMon. December 18 08:30a.m.-11:30a.m.CFA M157
57360 ABRASS METHODSThu. December 14 08:30a.m.-11:30a.m.CFA ACH
57375 AMUSIC ELEM SCHOOLTue. December 19 0830‘a.m.-11:30a.m.CFA 110
DH 2210, DH 2105, DH 212257457 AJAZZ HISTORY ITue. December 19 05:30p'.m.-08:30p.m.CFA M160
DH 2210, DH 2315, DH 2105, DH 212257459 ASC RDG KYBD HARMTue. December 19 08:30a.m.-11:30a.m.MM 127
DH 2210, DH 2315, DH 2105, DH 212257806 AWORLD MUSICMon. December 18 08:30a.m.-11:30a.m.MM 127
DH 111257827 ABERLIOZ SRMNTC CENTThu. December 14 08:30a.m.-11:30a.m.MM 127
WEH 750057831 APRNCPLS OF EDUCATIONMon. December 18 08:30a.m.-11:30a.m.CFA M157
UC McConomy57860 ABRASS METHODSThu. December 14 08:3ba.m.-11:30a.m.CFA ACH
DH 231557875 AMUSIC IN EL SCHOOLTue. December 19 08:30a.m.-11:30a.m.CFA 110
MMA14 
WEH 5403 
DH 1112
Art
60205 AMOD VIS CL 1789-1945Thu. December 21 01:00p.m.-04:00p.m.DHA317
60351 AART & RELIGIONTue. December 19 08:30a.m.-11:30a.m.DH 1209
60355 A, VISUAL ANTHROPOLOGYWed. December 20 05:30p.m.-08:30p.m.MMA14
PH 10060376 AFRENCH MODERNISMThu. December 14 08:30a.m.-11:30a.m.BH 235A
DH 1211
H&SS Interdisciplinary
66250 A INTRO TO RELIGIONThu. December 14 01:00p.m,-04:00p.m.BH 235B
PHA2066271 AFNDMTLS SYS DEVLPITue. December 19 05:30p.m.-08:30p.m.PH 100
DH 121766271 BFNDMTLS SYS DEVLP I•Tue. December 19 05:30p.m.-08:30p.m.PH 100
DH 210566272 AAPPLCTN DESGN & DEVThu. December 14 05:30p.m.-08:30p.m.BH 136 A
DH 121766272 BAPPLCTN DESGN & DEVThu. December 14 05:30p.m.-08:30p.m.BH A53
DH 1112 
DH 1112Business Administration
70100 A INTRO TO BUSINESSThu. December 14 01:00p.m.-04:00p.m.DH 2210
70122 LedINTRO TO ACCOUNTINGWed. December 20 05:30p.m.-08:30p.m.DH 2210 SDH 2315
SH 12570122 Lee 2INTRO TO ACCOUNTINGWed. December 20 05:30p.m.-08:30p.m.DH 2210 SDH 2315
PH 125C70160 AINTRGRACMNCTNSIMon. December 18 08:30a.m.-11:30a.m.BHA51
PH A18C70160 BINTRGRACMNCTNSIMon. December 18 08:30a.m.-11:30a.m.BHA51
PH 125C70207 Lee 1PROB &STAT BUS APPLMon. December 18 05:30p.m.-08:30p.m.MM 103 S MM A14
PHA18A70332 ABUSINESS & SOCIETYThu. December 21 08:30a.m.-11:30a.m.BH 136A
PH 126 A70332BBUSINESS & SOCIETYMon. December 18 01:00p.m.-04:00p.m.BHA51
PH 125B70341 AORG COMMThu. December 14 08:30a.m.-11:30a.m.PHA18C
PHA18A70364 ABUSINESS LAWTue. December 19 01:00p.m.-04:00p.m.MM103
SH 12570365 AINT TRADES INT LAWThu. December 14 05:30p.m.-08:30p.m.PHA18A
BH 136A70371 LedPRODUCTION ITue. December 19 05:30p.m.-08:30p.m.UC McConomy
PH 125B70371 Lee 2PRODUCTION ITue. December 19 05:30p.m.-08:30p.m.UC McConomy
PH 125B70381 Lee 1MARKETING IThu. December 2101:00p.m.-04:00p.m.UC McConomy
PHA18A70381 Lee 2MARKETING IThu. December 21 01:00p.m.-04:00p.m.UC McConomy
70391 Lee 1FINANCE IMon. December 18 05:30p.m.-08:30p.m.BHA51SBHA53
70391 Lee 2FINANCE IMon. December 18 05:30p.m.-08:30p.m.BH 136ASPH 125C
PH 10070393 AFIN ANAL & SEC TRDNGMon. December 18 05:30p.m.-08:30p.m.PHA18A
WEH 7500 & W^H 642370414 ATECH-BASED ENTRPSHPFri. December 15 05:30p.m.-08:30p.m.WEH 5403
DH 2210 &DH 231570415 AENTREPRENEURSHIP ITue. December 19 08:30a.m.-11:30a.m.WEH 7500
UC McConomy70415 BENTREPRENEURSHIP ITue. December 19 08:30a.m.-11:30a.m.DHA317
UC McConomy70415CENTREPRENEURSHIP ITue. December 19 08:30a.m.-11:30a.m.WEH 7500
HH B10370417 ATPCS IN ENTREPRNRSHPFri. December 15 08:30a.m,-11:30a.m.BH 231A
DH 1212 &DH 121170451 Lee 1MGMNTINFORMATN SYSFri. December 15 01:00p.m.-04:00p.m.DH 2210
WEH 750070451 Lee 2MGMNT INFORMATN SYSFri. December 15 01:00p.m.-04:00p.m.DH2315
WEH 842770456 ATELECOM & NTWRK MGMTWed. December 20 05:30p.m.A}8:30p.m.MM 103
BHA5170483 AMARKETNG COMMNCTIONSTue. December 19 08:30a.m.-11:30a.m.PH 125C
HH B10370484 ADIRECT MARKETINGWed. December 20 08:30a.m.-11:30a.m.DH 1112
PH 10070485 APRODUCT MANAGEMENTWed. December 20 01:00p.m.-04:00p.m.PH 125C
SH 12570497 AOPTIONSFri. December 15 08:30a.m.-11:30a.m.MMA14
HH B103&HH B13170520 APUBLICITY S PUB RELWed. December 20 08:30a.m.-11:30a.m.BH 255A
PH 10070637 AINTACT MED DES PRODFri. December 15 08:30a.m.-11:30a.m.PHA22
WEH 750070643 APBLSHNG ON THE WWWThu. December 14 01:00p.m.-04:00p.m.MM 103
WEH 642370643BPBLSHNG ON THE WWWThu. December 14 01:00p.m.-C4:00p.m.MM 103
SH 206 
PH 100 
PH 100
Economics 
73100 LedPRINC OF ECONOMICSTue. December 19 05:30p.m.-08:30p.m.DH 2210, DH 2315, DH
SH 206 
HHB10373100 Lee 2PRINC OF ECONOMICSTue. December 19 05:30p.m.-08:30p.m.
DH 1211, DH 1217, DH 
DH 2210, DH 2315, DH
WEH 6423 
BHA5173248 AENVIRONMENTAL ECONMCWed. December 20 08:30a.m.-11:30a.m.
DH 1211, DH 1217, DH 
MMA14
73250 LedINTERMED MICROECONThu. December 14 01:00p.m.-04:00p.m.UC McConomy
73250 Lee 2INTERMED MICROECONThu. December 14 Q1:00p.m.-04:00p.m.UC McConomy
NSH 300273300 Lee 1INTERMED MACRECONThu. December 14 08:30a.m.-11:30a.m.PH 100SPH125C
WEH 642373300 Lee 2INTERMED MACRECONThu. December 14 08:30a.m.-11:30a.m.PH 100 S PH 125C
73325 AEXPER FNDTNS EQUILMon. December 18 01:00p.m.-04:00p.m.PH 226C
73328 AHEALTH ECONOMICSFri. December 15 08:30a.m.-11:30a.m.PH A19
SH 12573343 AECON OF TECH CHANGETue. December 19 05:30p.m.-08:30p.m.PHA18C
DH 120973359 ABENEFIT-COST ANALYThu. December 21 01:00p.m.-04:00p.m.BH136A
73360 Lee 1ECONOMETRICS IITue. December 19 08:30a.m.-11:30a.m.DH 1112
73371 AINTNAT TRADE ECO DEVMon. December 18 08:30a.m.-11:30a.m.WEH 8427
UC McConomy73372 AINTNL MONEY/FINANCEWed. December 20 08:30a.m.-11:30a.m.MM 103
PH 10073458 AMONEY AND BANKINGTue. December 19 05:30p.m.-08:30p.m.MM 103
PH 100 
DH 2315 
HH B103
English 
76245 ASHAKESPEARE: 1600-07Thu. December 14 08:30a.m.-11:30a.m. •BH 255B
MM 103&MMA1476265 ASURVEY FORMS: POETRYThu. December 14 08:30a.m.-11:30a.m.BH 235B
PH 10076294 AINTERPRETIVE PRACTCSThu. December 14 01:00p.m.-04:00p.m.' PH226C
BH136A76294 BINTERPRETIVE PRACTCSMon. December 18 01:00p.m.-04:00p.m.BHA53
HHB103&HH B13176331 AUTOPIAS DISTOPIASFri. December 15 08:30a.m.-11:30a.m.PHA21
SH 12576333 ATHE EPICWed. December 20 oi:00p.m.-04:00p.m.BH255B
SH 22076340 ASATIREMon. December 18 01:00p.m.-04:00p.m.BH255B
WEH 540376365 ABEGINING POETRY WKSPWed. December 20 01:00p.m.-04:00p.m.BH255A
SH 22476396 AWRITS PUB INTERESTThu. December 14 05:30p.m.-08:30p.m.PH 225B
SH 125, SH 206, SH21276431 AMOD POETRY POETC POLMon. December 18 01:00p.m.-04:00p.m.BH 235A
WEH 750076494 AMED COMMCTNS HLTHCRMon. December 18 01:00p.m.-04:00p.m.0SC 203
DHA31776794 AMED COMMCTNS HLTHCRMon. December 18 01:00p.m.-04:00p.m.0SC 203
DH231576796 AWRITS PUB INTERESTThu. December 14 05:30p.m.-08:30p.m.PH225B
HHB10376831 AMOD POETRY POETC POLMon. December 18 01:00p.m.-04:00p.m.BH 235A
FALL MINI-1 2000 
OFFICIAL FINAL EXAM SCHEDULE 
Enrollment Services
Mathematical Sciences
21106 Lec11TOPICS IN PRE-CALCLSFri.Oct208:30 a.m. to 11:30 a.m.SH 224
21115Lec11DIFFRNTIAL CALCULUSFri.Oct208:30 a.m. to 11:30 a.m.DH 2210 &DH 1212
21115Lec21DIFFRNTIAL CALCULUSFri.Oct208:30 a.m. to 11:30 a.m.DH 2315
21116 Lec11INTEGRAL CALCULUSFri.Oct208:30 a.m. to 11:30 a.m.MM 103
21116 Lec21INTEGRAL CALCULUSFri.Oct208:30 a.m. to 11:30 a.m.MM A14
21117 Lee 21INTGRTN S DIF EQUATNFri.Oct208:30 a.m. to 11:30 a.m.WEH 7500
21117Lec11INTGRTN S DIF EQUATNFri.Oct208:30 a.m. to 11:30 a.m.PH 100
21118 Lec11CALCULUS APPROXMTNFri.Oct208:30 a.m. to 11:30 a.m.BHA51
Materials ScioncoEngineering
27201 Lec11STRUCTRE OF MATERLSFri.Oct2001:00p.m. to 04:00 p.m.WEH 5403
27441 LediMECH BEHAV MATLS IFri.Oct209:30 a.m. to 12:30 p.m.BH136A
Statistics
36728 A1TIME SERIES ANALYSIS IFri.Oct209:30 a.m. to 11:30 a.m.DH 1211
CARNEGIE MELLON POLICY ON UNIVERSITY FINAL EXAMINATIONS
control: expectations should be reasonably consistent with the number of 
course units and, of course, should be made known to the student well in 
advance of the final examination period.
DEFINITIONS
¥The university's official final examination period begins on the Monday 
immediately following the last day of classes and continues through the last 
day of scheduled final examinations, with the exception of reading day(s).
¥ Scheduled final examinations are those scheduled by Enrollment 
Services. An instructor may choose not to fix a schedule for the final 
examination, but instead allow each student to choose the examination time; 
such exams are called self-scheduled examinations.
¥ Final examinations can either be comprehensive, covering all course 
materials, or non-comprehensive, covering only a part of the course.
PREAMBLE
The Faculty Senate adopted the following policies on the administration of 
final examinations for the undergraduate courses (defined as courses that 
are numbered 6xx or below). These policies represent an understanding 
between faculty and student concerning an Important but often stressful 
period at the conclusion of each academic semester. There should be no 
expectation that the following points will cover every conceivable situation. 
The student should anticipate the demands of the end-of-semester 
schedule, plan accordingly and early, and be prepared. The faculty should 
recognize that the student is encumbered with many tightly orchestrated 
and intensive obligations during this period over which he or she has no
POLICIES
1. All scheduled final examinations are held at the end of the semester 
during the university’s official final examination period. Comprehensive final 
examinations are not required for each course, but are given at the option of 
the department or instructor. The reading day and weekend preceding the 
examination days shall never be used for examination purposes of any kind, 
unless a student opts to take a self-scheduled examination during this time. 
Non-comprehensive final examinations or final projects (but not both) are 
allowed during this final examination period only in courses that do not give a 
final comprehensive examination.

---------------------------------------------------

FALL 2000 FINAL EXAM SCHEDULE
Engineering and Public PolicyHistory
19101 Lee 1INTRO ENGR & PUB POLFri. December 15 05:30p.m.-08:30p.m.PHA18C79104 Lee 1INTRO TO WORLD HISTFri. December 15 08:30a.m.-11:30a.m.DH2210
19424 AENERGY & THE ENVRNMTThu. December 14 01:00p.m.-04:00p.m.PH A18A79104 Lee 2INTRO TO WORLD HISTFri. December 15 08:30a.m.-11:30a.m.DH 2315
19446 AQUANTATIVE RISK ANALMon. December 18 08:30a.m.-11:30a.m.PH 225B79104 X-Y-Z 
79110 Led
INTRO TO WORLD HIST 
DVLPMNT EUROPN CULTR
Tue. December 19 01:00p.m.-04:00p.m. 
Fri. December 15 01:00p.m.-04:00p.m.
UC McConomy 
BHA51
Mathematical Sciences79158 AFR SM:SLVRY & EMANCThu. December 14 01:00p.m.-04:00p.m.BH237B
21105 Lec1PRE-CALCULUSFri. December 15 05:30p.m.-08:30p.m.DHA31779201 AINTRO TO ANTHROThu. December 14 01:00p.m.-04:00p.m.BH 136A
21111 LedCALCULUS ITue. December 19 08:30a.m.-11:30a.m.HH B103&HH B13179204 A20TH CENTURY AMERICAFri. December 15 08:30a.m.-11:30a.m.BHA53
21112 LedCALCULUS IITue. December 19 01:00p.m.-04:00p.m.HH B103&HH B13179212 AHSTRY MDRN SCIENCEMon. December 18 08:30a.m,-11:30a.m.PHA18B
21115 Lee 12DIFFRNTIAL CALCULUSMon. December 18 05:30p,m.-08:30p.m.SH 206 &SH 21279222 ARELGN AMERICAN SOCThu. December 14 08:30a.m.-11:30a.m.PHA18A
21116 Lee 12INTEGRAL CALCULUSMon. December 18 01:00p.m.-04:00p.m.DH 221079225 ARELIGIONS OF ASIAMon. December 18 08:30a.m.-11:30a.m.PH 125C
21116 Lee 22INTEGRAL CALCULUSMon. December 18 01:00p.m.-04:00p.m.UC McConomy79227 AHIS WORLD ARCHTCTUREMon. December 18 01:00p.m.-04:00p.m.MM 103&MMA14
21117 Lec12INTGRTN & DIF EQUATN. Tue. December 19 08:30a.m.-11:30a.m.MM 103 & MM A1479230 ATECHNLGY AMER SOCTYTue. December 19 01:00p.m.-04:00p.m.PH 100
21117 Lee 22INTGRTN & DIF EQUATNTue. December 1908:30a.m.-11:30a.m.MM 103 & MM A1479232 AVIETNMAMER LOST WARTue. December 19 05:30p.m.-08:30p.m.HH B131
21118 Lec12. CALCULUS APPROXMTNTue. December 19 01:00p.m.-04:00p.m.UC McConomy79267 A2AM WOMEN & SOC REFRMFri. December 15 08:30a.m.-11:30a.m.BH255A
21118 Lee 22CALCULUS APPROXMTNtue. December 19 01:00p.m.-04:00p.m.UC McConomy79280 ARUS HIS FRSTLSTTSRTue. December 19 08:30a.m.-11:30a.m.PHA18B
21121 Lee 1CALCULUS 1Wed. December 20 08:30a.m.-11:30a.m.UC McConomy79290 AMODERN LATIN AMERICAMon. December 18 08:30a.m.-11:30a.m.BHA53
21127 LedCONCEPTS OF MATHMTCSMon. December 18 01:00p.m.-04:00p.m.DH 1112 & DH 121279291 AIND ANTHROP HIS PERSMon. December 18 08:30a.m.-11:30a.m.BH 136A
21127 Lee 2CONCEPTS OF MATHMTCSMon, December 18 01:00p.m.-04:00p.m.DH 231579296 APUBLIC ART & RESPNSEFri. December 15 01:00p.m.-04:00p.m.BH 235A
21131 LedANALYSIS!Thu. December 14 01:00p.m.-04:00p.m.MMA1479302 AFRENCH MODERNISMThu. December 14 08:30a.m.-11:30a.m.BH 235A
21228 Lee 1DISCRETE MATHMon. December 18 01:00p.m.-04:00p.m.HH B103&HH B13179303 AVISUAL ANTHROPOLOGYWed. December 20 05:30p.m.-08:30p.m.MMA14
21241AMATRIX ALGEBRATue. December 19 08:30a.m.-11:30a.m.DH221079308 APOLTCS & CULTR MEMRYMon. December 18 01:00p.m.-04:00p.m.PH 225B
21241 BMATRIX ALGEBRATue. December 19 08:30a.m.-11:30a.m.SH 12579323 A2LEONRDO & RENAISSNCEMon. December 18 01:00p.m.-04:00p.m.PH 125C
21241 CMATRIX ALGEBRATue. December 19 08:30a.m.-11:30a.m. 'DH 221079325 AART & RELIGIONTue. December 19 08:30a.m.-11:30a.m.DH 1209
21256 Lee 1MULTI ANLYSIS APPROXMon. December 18 08:30a.m.-11:30a.m.MM 103&MMA1479331 ACRIME & PUNISHMENTWed. December 20 08:30a.m.-11:30a.m.PHA18A
21257 LedMODL METH OPTIMIZATNWed. December 20 08:30a.m.-11:30a.m.DH 231579340 AHSTRY MODRN WARFAREThu. December 14 08:30a.m.-11:30a.m.BH 136 A
21259 LedCALCULUS IN 3-DThu. December 21 08:30a.m.-11:30a.m.UC McConomy79346 AINTL ENVRMTL LAW POLMon. December 18 01:00p.m.-04:00p.m.TBA
21259 Lee 2CALCULUS IN 3-DThu. December 21 08:30a.m.-11:30a.m.DH221079355 A2AMERICAN SKYSCRAPERWed. December 20 08:30a.m.-11:30a.m.PHA18B
21260 LedDIFFRENTL EQUATIONSThu. December 21 08:30a.m.-11:30a.m.DH231579360 APHOTOGRAPH SNCEWWIIMon. December 18 05:30p.m.-08:30p.m.D H A317
21260 Lee 2DIFFRENTL EQUATIONSThu. December 21 08:30a.m.-11:30a.m.DH 231579362 A2EMPLOYERS & EMPLYEESThu. December 14 01:00p.m.-04:00p.m.PH 225B
21300 ABASIC LOGICTue. December 19 08:30a.m.-11:30a.m.DH2315
21301 ACOMBINATORIAL ANALYThu. December 14 01:00p.m.-04:00p.m.PH 100Philosophy
21341 ALINEAR ALGEBRAWed. December 20 01:00p.m.-04:00p.m.HH B10380101AFR SM:MATHMTC CONTXTFri. December 15 05:30p.m.-08:30p.m.BH235B
21355 AADVANCED CALCULUS IThu. December 14 08:30a.m.-11:30a.m.WEH 750080135 AINTRO POLITC PHILOSThu. December 14 01:00p.m.-04:00p.m.BHA51
21357 ASEQ & SERIES FNCTNSFri. December 15 05:30p.m.-08:30p.m.SH 32480150 ANATURE OF REASONWed. December 20 05:30p.m.-08:30p.m.BH 136A
21371 AFUNCCMPLX VARIABLEMon. December 18 05:30p.m.-08:30p.m.WEH 842780180 ANATURE OF LANGUAGEWed. December 20 05:30p.m.-08:30p.m.PH 100
21373 AALGEBRAIC STRUCTURESWed. December 20 01:00p.m.-04:00p.m.HHB13180181 ALANGUAGE & THOUGHTThu. December 21 01:00p.m.-04:00p.m.BH 255A
21393 AOPERATIONS RSCHIIThu. December 14 05:30p.m.-08:30p.m.WEH 642380210 AINTRODUCTION TO LOGICFri. December 15 01:00p.m.-04:00p.m.BHA53
21441 ANUMBER THEORYMon. December 18 05:30p.m.-08:30p.m..WEH 540380250 AANCIENT PHILOSOPHYWed. December 20 08:30a.m.-11:30a.m.BHA53
21476 AORD DIFF EQUATIONSThu. December 14 08:30a.m.-11:30a.m.DH 212280256 AMODRN MORAL PHILSPHY. Tue. December 19 01:00p.m.-04:00p.m.PHA19
21600 AMATH LOGIC ITue. December 19 08:30a.m.-11:30a.m.DH231580270 APHILOS OF MINDThu. December 14 01:00p.m.-04:00p.m.BHA53
21602 AINTRO TO SET THEORYThu. December 14 01:00p.m.-04:00p.m.PHA2280305 ARATIONAL CHOICEFri. December 15 01:00p.m.-04:00p.m.PHA18A
21715 ACOMMUTATIVE ALGEBRAMon. December 18 08:30a.m.-11:30a.m.SH 22080310 A 
80317 Led
LOGIC & COMPUTATION 
CONSTRUCTIVE LOGIC
Thu. December 14 08:30a.m.-11:30a.m. 
Tue. December 19 05:30p.m.-08:30p.m.
HHB131
BHA51
Mechanical Engineering80510 ALOGIC &CMPTNSEMNRThu. December 2101:00p.m.-04:00p.m.PH 126A
24101 Lee 1FUND OF MECH ENGRMon. December 18 05:30p.m.-08:30p.rn.PH 10080605 ARATIONAL CHOICEFri. December 15 01:00p.m.-04:00p.m.PHA18A
24221 Lee 1THERMODYNAMICS ITue. December 19 08:30a.m.-11:30a.m.PH 10080610 A/BLOGICS COMPUTATIONThu. December 14 08:30a.m.-11:30a.m.HH B131
24322 Lee 1HEAT TRANSFERFri. December 15 05:30p.m.-08:30p.m.BHA51&BHA5380617 LedCONSTRUCTIVE LOGICTue. December 19 05:30p.m.-08:30p.m.BHA51
24323 ATHERMODYNAMICS IITue. December 19 01:00p.m.-04:00p.m.SH 42280810 ALOGIC & CMPTN SEMNRThu. December 2101:00p.m.-04:00p.m.PH 126A
24354 AGENERAL ROBOTICSMon. December 18 08:30a.m.-11:30a.m.HHB131
24356 AENGR VIBRATIONSWed. December 20 01:00p.m.-04:00p.m.SH 324Modern Languages
24421 Lee 1INTERNL COMBSTENGNSThu. December 21 01:00p.m.-04:00p.m.HHB13182103 AELEM FRENCH I ONLINEWed. December 20 01:00p.m.-04:00p.m.PH225C-LLRC
24424 AENERGY & THE ENVRNMTThu. December 14 01:00p.m.-04:00p.m.PH A18A82121AELEMENTARY GERMAN IFri. December 15 01:00p.m.-04:00p.m.BH 136A
24451 AFEEDBKCNTRL SYSTEMSFri. December 15 01:00p.m.-04:00p.m.SH 12582121 BELEMENTARY GERMAN IFri. December 15 01:00p.m.-04:00p.m.. BH136A
24751 AINTRO SOLID MECH IMon. December 18 08:30a.m.-11:30a.m.SH 12582141 A 
82141 B
ELEMENTARY SPANISH I 
ELEMENTARY SPANISH I
Tue. December 19 05:30p.m.-08:30p.m. 
Tue. December 19 05:30p.m.-08:30p.m.
PH 125C 
PH125C
Materials Science and Engineering82141CELEMENTARY SPANISH IThu. December 14 01:00p.m.-04:00p.m.PH 226B
27100 Lee 1MATERIALS IN ENGRTue. December 19 08:30a.m.-11:30a.m.DH 121282142 AELEM SPANISH IITue. December 19 08:30a.m.-11:30a.m.PHA18A
27202 Lee 12DEFECTS IN MATLSFri. December 15 08:30a.m.-11:30a.m.WEH 540382142BELEM SPANISH IITue. December 19 08:30a,m.-11:30a.m.PH A18A
27215 ATHERMODYNMC OF MTRLSTue. December 19 08:30a.m.-11:30a.m.WEH 842782143 ASELF-PACED SPANISHThu. December 14 05:30p.m.-08:30p.m.PH 225C-LLRC
27357 AINTRO TO MATLS SELECMon. December 18 08:30a.m.-11:30a.m.WEH 750082161 AELEMENTARY ITALIAN IThu. December 14 08:30a.m.-11:30a.m.DH 1112
27432 Lee 12ELEC MAG OPT PR MAGSThu. December 21 01:00p.m.-04:00p.m.WEH 540382161 BELEMENTARY ITALIAN IFri. December 15 05:30p.m.-08:30p.m.PH 226B
27542 ASTR PROP THIN FILMSFri. December 15 05:30p.m.-08:30p.m.WEH 842782161CELEMENTARY ITALIAN IThu. December 14 08:30a.m.-11:30a.m.DH 1112
27776 AFOUNDTN MATERIAL SCIMon. December 18 08:30a.m.-11:30a.m.HH B10382161 DELEMENTARY ITALIAN IThu. December 14 08:30a.m.-11:30a.m.DH 1112
27779 ABOND/CRYSTLS/DEFECTS .Wed. December 20 08:30a jn.-11:30a.m.HH B10382171 AELEM JAPANESE IThu. December 14 08:30a.m.-11:30a.m.BH A51 & BH A53
27780 ATHERMODYNAMICSThu. December 14 08:30a.m.-11:30a.m.PH A18B82171 B 
82171 C
ELEM JAPANESE I 
ELEM JAPANESE I
Thu. December 14 08:30a.m.-11:30a.m. 
Thu. December 14 08:30a.m.-11:30a.m.
BH A51 & BH A53 
BHA51&BHA53
Physics82171DELEM JAPANESE IThu. December 14 08:30a.m.-11:30a.m.BH A51 & BH A53
33106 Lee 1PHYSICS ENGR STUD IThu. December 14 08:30a.m.-11:30a.m.UC McConomy82171 EELEM JAPANESE IThu. December 14 08:30a.m.-11:30a.m.BHA51&BHA53
33107 Lee 1PHYSICS ENGR STUD IIThu. December 14 08:30a.m.-11:30a.m.DH 221082171 FELEM JAPANESE IThu. December 14 08:30a.m.-11:30a.m.BHA51&BHA53
33111 LedPHYSICS SCI STUD IThu. December 14 05:30p.m.-08:30p.m.DH 221082201 AINTERMED FRENCH IMon. December 1805:30p.m.-08:30p.m.PH 126A
33112 LedPHYSCSSCISTDNTSIIWed. December 20 05:30p.m.-08:30p.m.DH 111282221 AINTERMED GERMAN IThu. December 14 01:00p.m.-04:00p.m.PHA21
33131 Lee 1MATTR & INTERACTNS 1Thu. December 14 08:30a.m.-12:30p.m.DH 231582231 AINTERMED CHINESE IThu. December 14 08:30a.m.-11:30a.m.PH A19
33211 APHYS III: MOD ESSENTWed. December 20 05:30p.m.-08:30p.m.BHA5182231BINTERMED CHINESE IMon. December 1801:00p.m.-04:00p.m.BH 237B
33225 AQUANTMPHYSTRUCMATTue. December 19 08:30a.m.-11:30a.m.WEH 540382231CINTERMED CHINESE IMon. December 1801:00p.m.-04:00p.m.BH237B
33232 APHYSICAL ANALYSISThu. December 14 05:30p.m.-08:30p.m.DH 121282261 AINTERMED ITALIAN IThu. December 14 08:30a.m.-11:30a.m.DH 1112
33241 AINTRCMPJNL PHYSICSTue. December 19 05:30p.m.-08:30p.m.DH 210582271 AINTERMED JAPANESE IFri. December 15 08:30a.m.-11:30a.m.PH 226B & PH 226C
33331 APHYSCL MECHANICS 1Wed. December 20 08:30a.m.-11:30a.m.WEH 540382271BINTERMED JAPANESE IFri. December 15 08:30a.m.-11:30a.m.PH 226B & PH 226C
33341 ATHERMAL PHYSICS 1Fri. December 15 01:00p.m.-04:00p.m.WEH 540382271CINTERMED JAPANESE IFri. December 15 08:30a.m.-11:30a.m.PH226B&PH226C
33345 AMTHMTCL MTHDS PHYSTue. December 19 08:30a.m.-11:30a.m.WEH 642382271 DINTERMED JAPANESE IFri. December 15 08:30a.m.-11:30a.m.PH226B&PH226C
33439 AINT ELEC & MAGNET IIMon. December 18 01:00p.m.-04:00p.m.WEH 842782323 ACONTMP GERMAN CULTRMon. December 18 08:30a.m.-11:30a.m.PHA18C
33445 AADV QUANTUM PHYSCS 1Wed. December 20.05:30p.m.-09:30p.m.WEH 842782420 AGERMAN CLASSICAL LITThu. December 14 01:00p.m.-04:00p.m.PHA19
33453 A'INTERMEDIATE OPTICSThu. December 21 08:30a.m.-11:30a.m.WEH 8427
33467 AINTRO TO ASTROPHYSFri. December 15 05:30p.m.-08:30p.m.BH 235APsychology
33755 AQUANTUM MECHANICS 1Wed. December 20 08:30a.m.-11:30a.m.WEH 842785100 LedINTRO TO INTELLIGNCEWed. December 20 01:00p.m.-04:00p.m.DH 2210,2315, DH2200
33759 AINTRO THEO PHYS 1Thu. December 14 09:30a.m.-11:30a.m.WEH 842785211ACOGNTV PSYCHOLOGYWed. December 20 08:30a.m.-11:30a.m.PH 100
33777 AINTRODTY ASTRPHYSICSFri. December 15 08:30a.m.-11:30a.m.Ml 44885213A 
85221A
HMN INF PRO ART INTL 
PRINC CHILD DVLPMNT
Thu. December 14 08:30a.m.-11:30a.m. 
Thu. December 2101:00p.m.-04:00p.m.
MMA14
BHA51&BHA53
Statistics85261 AABNORMAL PSYCHOLOGYTue. December 1901:00p.m.-04:00p.m.PH 100
3620T Lee 1STATISTCL REASONINGMon. December 18 05:30p.m.-08:30p.m.DH 2210 &DH 231585340 ARSCH MTHDS SOC PSYFri. December 15 08:30a.m.-11:30a.m.PH 125C
36202 LedINTRO STAT METHODSMon. December 18 05:30p.m.-08:30p.m.UC McConomy85380AHIST DEV EXP PSYCHMon. December 18 08:30a.m.-11:30a.m.PH226A
36207 LedPROB &STAT BUS APPLMon. December 18 05:30p.m.-08:30p.m.MM 103 & MM A1485390 AHUMAN MEMORYTue. December 19 08:30a.m.-11:30a.m.BH235B
36217 APROB THEO RNDM PROCWed. December 20 08:30a.m.-11:30a.m.DH 2210 &DH 210585411 ACOG PROCPROB SOLVThu. December 14 05:30p.m.-08:30p.m.BHA51
36220 LedENGR SfATQUAL CTRLMon. December 18 05:30p.m.-08:30p.m.DH 1112 & DH 121285417 ACOG MDL INTEL TUT SYWed. December 20 08:30a.m.-11:30a.m.PHA18C
36225 AINTRO PROB & STAT 1Fri. December 15 08:30a.m.-11:30a.m.BHA5185422 AINFANCYFri. December 15 01:00p.m.-04:00p.m.PHA18C
36309 AEX DES BEHA SOC SCIMon. December 18 08:30a.m.-11:30a.m.TBA85484 APRACTM CHLD DEVLPMNTThu. December 14 08:30a.m.-11:30a.m.PH225B
36325 APROB & MATH STAT 1Mon. December 18 05:30p.m.-08:30p.m.SH 12585711 ACOG PROCPROB SOLVThu. December 14 05:30p.m.-08:30p.m.BHA51
36401 AADV DATA ANALYSIS 1Wed. December 20 01:00p.m.-04:00p.m.BH A5385713 AHMN INF PRO ART INTLThu, December 14 08:30a.m.-11:30a.m.MMA14
36705 AINTERMED STATISTICSThu. December 14 08:30a.m.-11:30a.m.MM 10385717 ACOG MDL INTEL TUT SYWed. December 20 08:30a.m.-11:30a.m.PHA18C
36711 ASTATISTIC COMPUTINGWed. December 20 08:30a.m.-11:30a.m.PH 225B85722 AINFANCYFri. December 15 01:00p.m.-04:00p.m.PHA18C
36722 A2CONTIN MULTIV ANALYFri. December 15 08:30a.m.-11:30a.m.BH 235B
36725 APROB MTH& STAT 1Mon. December 18 05:30p.m.-08:30p.m.SH 125Social & Decision Sciences
36730 A2TIME SERIES ANAL IIMon. December 18 08:30a.m.-11:30a.m.DH 121188104 ADEC PROC AMER POL INWed. December 20 01:00p.m.-04:00p.m.UC McConomy
36746 AQUANT METH NEUROSCNCThu. December 14 08:30a.m.-11:30a.m.TBA88105 AINTRO WORLD POLITICSThu. December 14 05:30p.m.-08:30p.m.MMA14
36749 AEXP DES BEHSOCSCIMon. December 18 08:30a.m.-11:30a.m.TBA88211 AINTRO COBOL PROGRMNGTue. December 19 01:00p.m.-04:00p.m.PHA22
36758 AADV DATA ANALYSIS IIThu. December 14 08:30a.m.-11:30a.m.PH 125B88240 A 
88260 A
EMPIRCL RSCH METH I 
ORGANIZATIONS
Tue. December 19 08:30a.m.-11:30a.m. 
Wed. December 20 08:30a.m.-11:30a.m.
BH 140 Cluster 
BHA51
Biomedical Engineering88302 ABEHAVDECSN MAKINGFri. December 15 08:30a.m.-11:30a.m.BH 136A
42101AINT BIOMD & HLTH ENGWed. December 20 01:00p.m.-04:00p.m.MM 10388319 AVIETNMAMER LOST WARTue. December 19 05:30p.m.-08:30p.m.HH B131
42200 ABIOMED ENGR SEMINAR-Mon, December 18 08:30a.m.-11:30a.m.DH 121288328 AHEALTH ECONOMICSFri. December 15 08:30a.m.-11:30a.m.PHA19
42377 AREHABILITATION ENGNGWed. December 20 05:30p.m.-08:30p.m.DH 210588329 AAM FOR PLCY:1945-PRTue. December 19 05:30p.m.-08:30p.m.PH 126A
42500 APHYSIOLOGYTue. December 19 05:30p.m.-08:30p.m.SR 12588341 AORG COMMUNICATIONThu. December 14 08:30a.m.-11:30a.m.PHA18C
42606 ABIOTCHNLGY & ENV PROMon. December 18 05:30p.m.-08:30p.m.DH 121788343 AECON OF TECH CHANGETue. December 19 05:30p.m.-08:30p.m.PHA18C
42709 ABIOTCHNLGY & ENV PROMon. December 18 05:30p.m.-08:30p.m.DH 121788352 AINTL ENVRMTL LAW POLMon. December 18 01:00p.m.-04:00p.m.TBA
42735 APHYSIOLOGYTue. December 1905:30p.m.-08:30p.m.SH 12588356 ARATIONAL CHOICEFri. December 15 01:00p.m.-04:00p.m.PHA18A
42777 AREHABILITATION ENGNGWed. December 20 05:30pm-08:30p.m.DH 210588430 A 
88730 A
BEHV DEC MKG PHI SCI 
BEHVDEC MKG PHI SCI
Mon. December 18 08:30a.m.-11:30a.m. 
Mon. December 18 08:30a.m.-11:30a.m.
PH 226C 
PH 226C
CFA Interdisciplinary88743 AECON OF TECH CHANGETue. December 19 05:30p.m.-08:30p.m.PHA18C
62360 APHOTOGRAPH SNCWWIIMon. December 18 05:30p.m.-08:30p.m.DHA317
2. Instructors are expected to return all work assigned no later than 72 hours 
before the final examination in the course. In cases when this is not possible, 
an answer key, solution sets or equivalent feedback should be provided 
unless the final examination will not cover material in work that has not been 
returned.
3. No other coursework, Including laboratory or studio work, will be due 
during the final examination period unless it is assigned in advance and in 
lieu of the course’s final examination. Regardless of whether there Is a final 
examination in the course, no classes other than review sessions shall be 
held during the final examination period. Review sessions should be 
scheduled for optimal attendance, and a serious effort should be made to 
accommodate students who cannot attend. In appreciation of the time 
required to prepare for final examinations, no other examinations, portfolio 
reviews, critiques or juries shall be scheduled within four days of the final 
examination of the same course.
4. Instructors shall never exert or submit to pressures to move an 
examination so that people can leave earlier nor pressure students to take 
an examination on a reading day or weekend preceding examinations.
5. No student is required to take more than two scheduled examinations that 
start within a 24-hour period. A student who has more than two examinations 
scheduled within a 24-hour period or has two examinations scheduled at the 
same time should contact first the instructor of the course for assistance in 
resolving conflicts. If the problem cannot be resolved by that means, the 
student should contact the associate dean of his or her home college.
6. Take-home final examinations shall be given for any 24-hour period of the 
student’s choosing during the final examination period.
7. Students are expected to present themselves at the place assigned at 
the start of the examination; late arrival will reduce the total time a student has 
to complete the examination, unless instructor’s course policy Indicates 
otherwise. Instructors reserve the right to require attendance within a 
specific time period. Students who miss an examination with a reasonable 
excuse and wish to petition for a make-up final examination should check 
with the instructor. Instructors are encouraged to include late arrival policy 
and make-up exam policy in the course syllabus.
8. Any student shall be permitted to review his or her corrected, graded final 
examination In the presence of an instructor or a teaching assistant. Any 
controversy arising from this review shall be dealt with in accordance with the 
university procedure for the appeal of grades and academic actions. A final 
examination which is not returned to a student will be kept available for a year 
for review. In the event that the Instructor or teaching assistant is not 
available for the review, the responsibility shall rest with the department head 
of the instructor offering the course or his or her designee. Since instructors 
are expected to return all work assigned before the final examinations, they 
are not responsible for retaining unclaimed coursework.
9. Concerns related to final examination, complaints about violations of the 
final examination policy or alterations of the final examination schedule 
should be directed to the department head of the instructor offering the 
course or to the associate dean of the student’s home college.
CONTACT
Questions concerning this policy or its intent should be directed to: Indira 
Nair, Vice Provost for Education, X8-5865.

---------------------------------------------------

**»<¡1 n,^ctobe.
Tirso+sowos1ar 1ciAfLap!u ySca 3,Sr2 aGc
01 ln **e ° **e
Ociober 5, 2000
Please join cmuOLTT in celebrating 
National Coming Out Day from Tuesday, October 10th 
until Thursday, October
Julia Garretson
Dcur Members of ihc Campus Community:
Mitarfitaiv* *n 1f L:wkrI Tkp5Z ck1X
C*>r* M>t! '.'/Vrtrvrt yw *»«>!
Ail essential dement of Carnegie Me lion’s greatness as a university is our diversity. We 
must strive always to be a model to others in our rcspecl for the dignity of ail people, and 
we must ensure that ours is a community where personal and professional growth, 
development and actualization are our shared commitment to one another.
Bias and negative aitiludes-sueh as horoophobia-advcrsely affect the educational climate 
of the institution, promote discrimination, and stifle self expression and development of 
one's tiill potential. It is the responsibility of all members of the community to maintain 
a safe and open environment where die integrity of each person is secure. It is an 
opportunity we must embrace.
In recognition of the important contributions of gay, lesbian, bisexual and tnms-gcndcrcd 
and transsexual students, facuKy ami staff, wc acknowledge our support for National 
Coming Out Day. Wc urge all members of the community to use Llie day to refleel on 
your own views, including potential bias against any person, and lo affirm your support 
lor ihc principles of tolcrancc, openness and mutual respect throughout die year.
Sincerely,
.laYefl L. Cohon
mertc K/vs
Michael C. Murphy 
Dean of Student Affairs
l>s er 
Wo,
In,e amp
" **></ n¡HI
oc*°^e»ttWÍSp«‘-
.0°°'f^iW 10 S'0i('c*
Holly Hippensltel
Rob Frakenberry

---------------------------------------------------

Entertainment
Movies Opening This Week 
The Contender Dr. T and the Women 
Lost Souls 
The Ladies Man 
Billy Elliot
Upcoming Album Releases 
This Week: The Wallflowers, 
Orgy, Collective Soul 
Next Week: Limp Bizkit, 
Everlast, Talib Kweli & Hi- 
Tek, The Waco Brothers
What the Final SlZZlB = Mercedes
Grades Mean c =DV=hFo«ie°"
F = Hugo
) October 2000 THE TÀRTAN Page B9
Two writers explore the world behind the VIP doors of Loews
Film accurately depicts fiancé nightmare
by Ryan Friedman
Junior Staffwriter 
& Debra Halpern
Staffwriter
The newest theatre from Loews Cineplex 
Entertainment, the 22-screen Loews 
Waterfront Theatre, opened to the public 
earlier this year on May 5 in Homestead, just 
outside of Pittsburgh. It was the first Loews 
Theatre in the country to feature the “Loews 
Club, ” which is their VIP club that offers a 
premium movie going experience within the 
complex. While regular admission costs $8 a 
film, members who want access to the VIP 
club must pay $13. Is this extra cost worth it 
to money-starved college students? Two writ­
ers go and analyze the pros and cons of this 
exclusive group.
“Would you like VIP seating today?” the 
nice teenage minimum wage-paid worker 
politely inquired. We quickly looked at 
each other, dumbfounded. The next 
thought that crossed our minds was, “Well, 
what exactly is the VIP experience?1’ 
(Here’s a word to the wise: Never ask a 
Loews employee that question.) Following 
a long lecture, it boils'down to this: it costs 
five dollars more, but you get $3.50 credit 
to use at the Loews VIP restaurant. We nat­
urally asked, "Well, do you have popcorn?" 
The worker quietly inched closer and said, 
"We do, but we don’t advertise it." (Loews 
Theater does not advertise popcorn. That 
makes sense.)
So after getting the twenty-minute low- 
down on VIP Seating, which consisted of: 
“blah...blah...blah since it was so fast
and overwhelming of a list we decided to 
take on the VIP experience. The beginning 
of the journey started with us making a 
plight up the stairs marked "VIP only." It 
looked like a hotel.
One excellent benefit of the VIP ticket is 
the cool factor. Yep,, even though we may 
be geeky CMU students, we were cool in 
the VIP Hollywood-like lounge, for a 
whole 10, almost 15 minutes of fame. We 
went to the bar, wondering ‘Where the
hell do you order?’ We asked a big chef in 
front of us where to gò and he pointed to a 
sign that said, “Order Here.” It looked like 
he sneezed in his food. We then had some 
trouble deciding what to eat, so we decid­
ed to close our eyes and point at an item, 
similar to the manner in which we take 
our tests. The finger pointed to a brownie 
sundae, but we then realized that that was 
an evening dessert. Since this was a after­
noon post-lunch affair that we were 
attending, we decided to take the fruit 
platter which was quite yummy and com­
plete with kiwi.
Now it was time to enter the theater. 
With the fruit platter in hand we set off 
toward the theater while one of us picked 
up a free mint on the way. It was quite an 
exciting experience, even though the mint 
was never eaten and returned after the 
movie. We had selected our seating on the 
computer screen when purchasing the tick­
ets, however there was no one to help us 
find the seat. Fortunately, our finger guess­
ing was more successful this time around 
and we found our location. The seating 
was quite nice, we both approved of the 
lush leather love seats separated by snack 
tables. One of our favorite parts was that 
we could lie down if we wanted to. We also 
enjoyed the hand crafted wood paneling 
that adorned the seating area. However, 
problems arose for us as there was no place 
to put the fruit platter where we could both 
share it. So the only choice was for one of 
us to hold it. This task was not easy and 
uncomfortable; but overall, our experience 
at Loews VIP was good.
To sum it all up, even though you have to 
pay an extra $5, it provides a great experi­
ence, good value, but mediocre service. It 
also provides a good place to make out if 
you’re taking a date there. If you are going 
stag, like we were, you may find this to be 
an annoying disadvantage, however.
Loew’s Waterworks Cinema is located in 
Fox Chapel. To get there, board the 500 bus 
on Fifth Avenue by Mudge House heading 
east. Only certain buses go to the theater so 
be sure to check the schedule beforehand.
by Brad Cohen
Junior Staffwriter
The new Robert De Niro and Ben 
Stiller comedy, Meet the Parents, is 
one of the funniest and most enjoy­
able comedies in recent years. 
Stiller plays Greg Focker (yes, I did 
spell it correcdy and that is the 
character’s name), a male nurse 
who spends a weekend meeting the 
parents of the woman he intends to 
propose to. De Niro plays the 
woman’s overprotective father who 
naturally is keeping his eye on 
Stiller. As it turns out, De Niro is an 
ex-CIA operative and is intent on 
using his spy abilities to expose 
Stiller. De Niro is perfect for the role 
and it would be hard to see any 
other actor pulling it off as the 
crazed father-in-law from hell.
Many of the jokes are recycled 
and the movie is extremely pre­
dictable, but De Niro makes it all 
worth watching. The legendary 
tough guy from Goodfellas, Raging 
Bull, and Casino took a few pokes at 
himself with last year’s mob come­
dy Analyze This and he continues 
the joke in this one. As the shady 
father-in-law, he is the funniest 
thing in this movie and is worth the 
price of admission alone.
Stiller is also perfectly cast as the 
hapless nurse who seems to screw 
up everything in his attempt to win 
over the father. Like the geek char­
acter he played in There’s Something 
About Mary, poor Stiller plays a 
sane person caught up in unbeliev­
ably embarrassing and painful situ­
ations. He can’t do anything right 
and De Niro is right there to laugh 
and add insult to injury. Stiller’s 
antics do strain credibility, a little, 
after all, how often does a person 
manage to single-handedly destroy 
every single aspect of a wedding in 
which he has no role?
De Niro steals the movie from 
Stiller’s slightly overboard antics. 
Especially fiinny is his repeated use 
of the beleaguered prospective son- 
in-law’s name, Focker. “What’s 
your problem, Focker” is just one 
sample of the selective use of 
Stiller’s character’s surname that 
DeNiro spits out with regularity,
and hilarity, throughout the movie.
What I found especially funny 
about seeing this film was actually 
the fact that the person sitting next 
to me is engaged and is currendy 
scheduled to meet the parents in a 
couple of months. He will no doubt 
be going through the hell of meet­
ing his fiancee’s family and he can 
only pray that this movie is an exag­
geration. It was hysterical to watch 
him squirm and frequentiy whim­
per, “I’m gonna die.” I couldn’t help 
but laugh as he looked in horror at 
his impending doom.
Back to the movie, which scores 
in its total abandonment of believ­
able situations. Focker (I, too, like 
referring to him as simply Focker) 
screws up things so badly that he 
makes my recent intellectually- 
devoid Intro to World History paper 
look like it was written by a literary 
genius. Quite simply, he commits a 
snafu approximately every 30 sec­
onds. If you want to have a good 
laugh, go see the Focker movie.
Final Grade: B+
New MusicSonic experiment brings mixed results
Alissa Taylor/Art Staff
Artist: Radiohead 
Title: Kid A
Label: Capitol Records
Final Grade: B+
by Andy Francis
Arts & Living Co-Editor
Since the release of 1997’s spectacular OK 
Computer, Radiohead has been regarded as one of 
the world’s premiere rock groups, capable of turning 
groundbreaking artistic innovation into magnificent 
pop records. Naturally, anticipation ran high for the 
release of their new album, Kid A.
Much like the Smashing Pumpkins did with Adore, 
Radiohead have chosen to follow up a hugely ambi­
tious success with a weird, quiet album that empha­
sizes new sounds and electronic effects. Initially, lis­
tening to Kid A is quite a challenging task; none of 
the songs seem even remotely radio-friendly and 
picking out a concrete melody or hook is often quite 
difficult. Fortunately, underneath all the atmos­
phere, Kid A nonetheless turns out to be a pretty 
solid listen.
Radiohead wastes no time in showing off their 
eccentric, experimental side. The first two tracks,
“Everything in its Right Place" and “Kid A,” pit wan­
dering, atmospheric keyboards and fractured 
melodies against frontman Thom Yorke’s distorted 
vocals. At first, songs like these can be difficult to 
grasp and sometimes don’t even sound like songs at 
all. Radiohead stubbornly refuses to conform to any 
notion of what they should sound like, throwing 
together a wide variety of sounds and trying to pull 
something cohesive out of it. Perhaps the best exam­
ple is “The National Anthem,” which opens with a 
menacing bassline and driving beat and dissolves 
into a noisy excursion into jazz. Without question, 
Radiohead is trying to expand people’s idea of pop 
music, but the results can at times be more grating 
than satisfying.
Despite all the media hype about Radiohead 
breaking down musical barriers, the group is at its 
core a rock group. Appropriately, then, the most 
interesting songs on Kid A are guitar-based tracks 
like the lyrically intense “Optimistic” and the melan­
choly “How to Disappear Completely.” Another high­
light is “Idioteque,” a bizarre yet compelling song 
that nearly crosses over into dance territory. 
Although Yorke’s vocals are twisted and reshaped 
throughout the record, the lyrics are as thoughtful 
and emotional as ever. He seems disoriented during 
many of the songs, with lines like “This isn’t happen- 
ing/I’m not here” and “Don’t bother me/I’ve lost my 
way.” Yorke’s themes of confusion and false reality fit 
perfectly with the layers of sound swirling around 
the songs, battling for attention. Towards the end, 
the band even works in a relationship song of sorts, 
with the verge-of-a-breakup songs “Morning Bell” 
and “Motion Picture Soundtrack.”
The real issue at the center of Kid A is trying to dis­
cern just what Radiohead is trying to do with rock 
music. While the band’s artistic achievement is cer­
tainly to be praised, listening to the record made me 
stop and wonder who would actually sit down and be 
able to enjoy the instrumental drone of “Treefingers” 
or the obnoxious horns accompanying the second 
half of “The National Anthem.” For this reason, it’s 
hard to evaluate Kid A; I’m not even certain yet if I 
like it or not. Ultimately, though, while my rock-crit- 
ic side is very impressed with Radiohead’s creative 
approach to music-making, my music-lover side has 
a feeling that this record probably won’t have the 
same gripping, timeless quality of the band’s other 
classics.

---------------------------------------------------

BioTHE TARTAN • OCTOBER 9, 2000
story and will power in novel
BOOK REVIEW
by Danny A. Silitonga
Junior Staffwriter
As in Penelope Fitzgerald’s earlier novels — The 
Bookshop, Offshore, Human Voices, Innocence, The 
Beginning of Spring, and The Gate of Angels — 
Fitzgerald’s final masterpiece, The Blue Flower, 
explores the lives, tragedies, and missed opportuni­
ties of those who are destined to be defeated and 
condemned.
Friedrich von Hardenberg is an artist who falls in 
love with Sophie von Kühn, a twelve-year-old girl 
who is fated to die two years later from tuberculosis. 
Sophie’s character is the least developed one in the 
book. Though, in Hardenberg’s eye, Sophie conveys 
the image of the blue flower — a symbol of yearning 
for spiritual fulfillment. “I [Hardenberg] have no 
craving to be rich, but I long to see the blue flower. It 
lies incessantly at my heart, and I can imagine and 
think about nothing else,” Hardenberg professes.
Whereas Hardenberg assumes the role of an 
Orpheus figure, an improvised poet, who wins the 
love of a princess with his poetry, Sophie, in the eye 
of Hardenberg, plays the role of a redeemer:
“When we catch sight of certain human figures 
and faces . . . especially certain eyes, expressions, 
movements — when we hear certain words, when we 
read certain pages, thoughts take on the meaning of 
laws ... a view of life true to itself, without any self­
estrangement. And the self is set free, for the 
moment, from the constant pressure of change . . . 
Do you understand me?” Sophie nodded. “Yes. I do. I 
have heard of that before. Some people are born 
again and again into this world.” Fritz [Hardenberg] 
preserved. “I did not quite mean that. But that 
Schlegel, too, is interested in transmigration. Should 
you like to be born again?” Sophie considered a little. 
‘Yes, if I could have fair hair.’ ”
From the very beginning, Hardenberg’s relation­
ship with Sophie is doomed, as evidenced by their 
failure to communicate with each other. He imposes 
an irrational image upon her. “She [Sophie] is my
wisdom,” Hardenberg claims. She becomes the 
redeemer who fails to redeem her subject.
This raises the question of how Sophie, in the eye 
of Hardenberg, portrays the image of the blue 
flower. Her character is developed without any dept, 
but it serves a purpose. Through Hardenberg's irra­
tional affection for Sophie, the novel illustrates that 
the affections of a human’s heart are irrational, and
The Blue Flower
by Penelope Fitzgerald 
Houghton Mifflin
Final Grade: A
that they are as predetermined as the tragedies of 
lives.
Sophie dies from tuberculosis. Two weeks later, 
Eramus, Hardenberg's brother, also succumbs- to 
tuberculosis. The deaths of his other brother and sis­
ter follow. Hardenberg becomes engaged once again, 
but he dies before he can marry. After Sophie’s 
death, he becomes a recognized writer. Inspired by 
her memory, Hardenberg composes an elegy, Hymns 
to the Night, and continues working on Heinrich Von 
Herdingen, but he never finishes it.
Although Hardenberg and Sophie have been pre­
destined to fail, they choose to fight to survive. 
Hardenberg completes a hymn and attempts to write 
a book of poetry. Courage and the will to survive, 
this novel argues, is never a failure. They are not pre- 
• determined. Apparently, the book’s mission is to 
share the suffering and joy of these characters, 
defeated, predestined losers, through which process 
the book becomes complete, and so does their life, 
love, and story.October brings beer, Halloween events
PITTSBURGH, from page B14 
duced as a film? Did you know that 
she has not only been nominated 
for a Pulitzer Prize, but a Tony 
Award and Grammy Award as 
well? Most importantly, did you 
know that she’s coming to the 
Carnegie Music Hall in Oakland 
this Thursday at 7 pm?
• Have you been to Good Fridays 
yet? That is the name of the fall 
program brought to you by The 
Andy Warhol Museum in the North 
Side. Every Friday at 7 pm, you can 
go see a great movie and also 
receive free gallery admission from 
5 to 10 pm as well as a cash bar. 
This Friday’s movie is Happiness, 
the film that paved the road for 
American Beauty. Starring Jane 
Adams, Jon Lovitz, Dylan Baker, 
and Phillip Seymour Hoffman just 
to name a few, this movie actually 
presented American suburban life 
in a way that’s darker than the Best 
Picture Oscar winner. Maybe it’s a 
little too dark, but hey, that is what 
makes this film memorable.
• Let’s face it: the Flyers suck! 
We all know if it weren’t for that 
lucky goal they made in that fifth 
overtime earlier this year, the Pens 
would have been the ones hoisting 
the Stanley Cup. But what’s done is 
done and now it’s time for a new 
season. The Penguins’ home 
opener takes place this Friday 
against Tampa Bay at 7:30 in 
Mellon Arena. Well, technically 
speaking, this game is not their 
home opener. It is, however, their 
first non-Japanese home game of 
• the season and that’s what matters 
even though those Japanese love 
Jaromir Jagr.
° Talent is subjective. I have 
some friends who can eat five 
saltine crackers in one minute (try 
it, it’s a lot harder than you think) 
or stick their shoulder blades sev­
eral inches out. But if you want to 
find some justice for the acts that 
aren’t terribly talented, look no 
further than the Kappa Kappa 
Gong Show, which will take 
place Saturday in Rangos Hall of 
the University Center at 7 pm. It 
works just like the classic TV show: 
acts come on stage, if they suck; 
they get gonged. If they get 
gonged, they have to stop perform- 
’ ing. If they don’t get gonged, they 
could win fabulous prizes. But the 
best thing about this gong show, 
besides the fact that the proceeds 
go to the Debra House, is that 
Jimmy Walker won’t be one of the 
judges like he often was on the 
television show. Dy-no-mite!
• If you’re like most American
college students, you probably 
know jack about classical music. 
You care more about the 
Backstreet Boys than Bach. Well, 
the Pittsburgh Symphony
Orchestra is very aware of this cul­
tural impairment and now pre­
sents a program called 
Soundbytes, concerts that are 
intended to educate concertgoers 
about classical music in an enlight­
ening and entertaining way. 
Tchaikovsky: Triumph and 
Tragedy is the first installment of 
the season this Saturday at 8 pm in 
Heinz Hall.
• It appears that everyone’s 
favorite sacrilegious brewhouse is 
having a little Oktoberfest of 
their own. From Thursday through 
Sunday, The Church Brew Works 
Oktoberfest will feature plenty of 
jazz as well as plenty of beer and 
food from its hallowed church 
walls in the Strip District. If you
haven’t been to this church- 
turned-brewery, you’re missing 
quite the spectacle. You just have 
to love those big beer hops on the 
altar.
• Even though you may have 
met your college sweetheart on 
your Orientation Clipper Ship 
cruise, it’s time to shake things up 
a bit. Bring him or her to the USS 
Nightmare, a monthlong event 
brought to you by the Gateway 
Clipper Fleet. I mean, nobody’s 
afraid of a haunted house, but now 
we’re talking about a haunted 
boat. Man, that’s scary! And it 
doesn’t even leave Station Square! 
That gives all your seasick friends 
no excuse to not go with you.
.Jpy Paul Richelmi
Junior Staffwriter
This past weekend, the Pittsburgh 
Symphony Orchestra (PSO) per­
formed at Heinz Hall. Under the 
baton of German conductor Marek 
Janowski, the Orchestra exhibited a 
delightful program of relatively 
uncommon music. The heavy pro­
gram consisted of Johannes 
Brahms’ “Tragic Overture,” the 
world premier performance of 
Samuel Adler’s “Concerto for Viola 
and Orchestra,” and Arnold 
Schoenberg’s “Pelleas und 
Melisande.” The presence of 20th 
century music here is not to be 
regarded lightly.'The concert defi­
nitely featured some of the better 
examples of the genre.
Maestro Janowski walked on 
stage greeted by measly applause 
from the half-capacity crowd. He 
took the podium, and gave the 
downbeat* to start the “Tragic 
Overture.” The two opening chords 
of the piece displayed the powerful 
sound of the PSO. They were solid 
and rounded, showing the control 
the musicians had over their instru­
ments. The statement of the princi­
ple theme by the wonderful string 
section conveyed a sense of sadness 
and anger. At times, the piece 
sounded weepy, and at other times 
it sounded vengeful, both emoted 
nicely by the orchestra. The piece 
went on to sound wistful and hope­
ful, with the strings playing a danc­
ing melody, and the articulation 
demonstrated by the string section 
was precise and clear. However, 
there were some times during the 
piece, especially during the loud 
and furious parts, where the orches­
tra stumbled over its own momen­
tum and the musicians were out of 
synch with each other. The brass 
and the strings were not quite 
together during these times, but 
Maestro Janowski succeeded in 
bringing everyone back to his beat. 
The finale of the “Tragic Overture” 
was typical Brahms, loud and full. 
The orchestra handled it very nice­
ly, and they ended an overall pleas­
ing performance of the piece.
The world premiere performance 
of Samuel Adler’s “Concerto for 
Viola and Orchestra” was per­
formed next. The Orchestra com­
missioned the work for its long-time 
principal violist, Randolph Kelly. 
Mr. Kelly came onto the stage 
accompanied by Maestro Janowski, 
both ready to unleash a piece never 
heard before. Surprisingly, Mr. 
Kelly performed using music. The 
piece opened with a lyrical viola 
theme, which was executed quite 
nicely. Mr. Adler definitely com-
The Pittsburgh Symphony Orchestra was conducted by German conductor 
Marek Janowski at last weekend's performance.
posed this piece with the viola in 
mind, taking advantage of its wide 
range and timbre. The piece sounds 
like a mix between Sergi Prokofiev 
and Bernard Herrmann, but yet has 
its own flavor. Mr. Adler wrote a 
lovely orchestra part for the concer­
to, and it fit with the viola nicely.
They were balanced well, some­
times complementing each other, 
sometimes contrasting, but always 
making musical sense. Mr. Kelly 
played wonderfully, bringing the 
viola part to life. His mellow sound 
and solid technical skills were 
apparent during the second move­
ment, Which was full of lust and 
anger. This driven and forceful 
movement began with a viola 
cadenza, where Mr. Kelly was able 
to dazzle the audience. He handled 
the dark motifs of the movement 
well, with the orchestra providing 
solid backup throughout. The tact­
ful atonality of this piece was appar­
ent at times, especially during the 
third movement. The third and final 
movement was an argument 
between viola and orchestra. The 
viola solo was chock-full of passion­
ately driven double stops and other 
highly soloistic material. This move­
ment was especially reminiscent of 
Prokofiev’s “Love for Three 
Oranges.” The percussion part that 
played in unison with the viola part 
was a bit much however, distracting 
from the soloist. It ended furiously, 
with great virtuostic skills shown by 
Mr. Kelly. The response was quite 
appreciative from the audience, and 
intensified when Mr. Adler came 
onto stage to take his bows. This 
was truly a delightful piece, and Mr.
Kelly performed it wonderfully.- I 
certainly hope that this piece makes 
its way into the standard viola 
repertoire soon.
The night ended with Arnold
Schoenberg’s “Pelleas und 
Melisande.” It was performed with 
double winds and double brass, 
allowing the orchestra to achieve a 
very loud volume. This early work 
of Schoenberg was not typical 20th 
century or atonal at all; it resem­
bled late Russian romanticism and 
pre-cinematic music. It began very 
softly, with an introduction of- a 
motive by the bass and cellos. This 
wonderfully sentimental piece Was 
quite dramatic, with long sweeping 
melodies and ethereal harmonic 
structure. Even in the lighter parts, 
it was still heavy, but delightfully so. 
This showed off many of the possi­
ble tone colors of the orchestra, 
from thick and rich brass, to a beau­
tiful cello-viola duet. All of the 
string solos were exquisite, espe­
cially those by Mr. Andres 
Cardenes. An interesting aspect of 
this piece was how it was built* in 
layers. It gets louder and bigger by 
adding section by section, and gets 
softer in the reverse-manner. The 
harmonic colors were vibrant, with 
interesting flute tonguing and vast 
dynamic contrasting. Surprisingly, 
airs of Gershwin were audible jn 
this piece. After nearly 44 minutes 
of wonderful music, the pie£e 
ended with a sigh, very softly aijd 
restfully.
This weekend’s concert was very 
enjoyable, a nice change from the 
standard orchestral literature. It 
was also quite a treat to attend^ 
world premiere performance. It w&s 
reminiscent of the 19th century, 
when new pieces were being intrp- 
duced all the time. If you missed 
this performance, -you certainly 
missed a lot. The Pittsburgh 
Symphony will be performing'again 
October 13th and 15 th, featuring 
Pamela Frank playing the Dvorak 
Violin Concerto in A minor.
Where it matters most.
As one of the world's leadng dwersified technology companies, we're breaking new ground in every­
thing from defense and commercial electronics and business aviation and special 
mission aircraft. As a Raytheon employee, you'll contribute to the development of exciting, 
revolutionary technology designed to make life better, easier, and safer throughout the world. 
Such as our STARS air traffic control system. And our arard-winning NightSight™ technology.
But it all starts with you. Your creativity. Your knowledge and innovation. And enthusiasm 
about the future. In return, we offer exceptional training and professional development oppor­
tunities. A supportive down-to-earth work environment. And Incredible benefits including flexi­
ble schedules designed to respect your quality of life.
So you can still show off all those great qualities of yours outside of work, too.
We have a lot to tell you about Raytheon and the exciting opportunities we have available. 
Plan on visiting our booth at your college career fair. If you are unable to attend the fair, please 
e-mail your resume to: resume@rayiobs.com (ASCII text only: no attachments), or mail to: 
Raytheon Company, Attn: National Staffing Data Center, P.O. Box 660246, MS-201, 
Dallas, TX 75266. U.S. Citizenship may be required. We are an equal opportunity employer.
Opportunities are available for exceptional students with the following majors:
1 Computer Science 
¦ Computer Engineering 
1 Electrical Engineering 
1 Mechanical Engineering 
1 Math
• Physics
• Chemical Engineering
• Aeronautical Engineering
• Finance/Accounting
• Human Resources
1 Industrial and Labor 
Relations
> Marketing/Communications 
¦ Management
Check out our Website at WWW.rayjobS.COm/CampUS for further information including a calendar 
of recruiting events. At Raytheon, we strive to be the employer of choice for a diverse workforce by attracting, retaining, and 
recognizing the most talented, resourceful and creative people.
Bringing technology to the edge
Raytheon
Critic praises characters’ loveSymphony excels with unique program

---------------------------------------------------

THE TARTAN • OCTOBER 9, 2000Let Momo home run in your World Series
HOROSCOPES
Momo Starbuck
Hello, Dahlings. I know what 
you’re thinking. It’s Columbus Day. 
Good ol’ Chris sails the ocean blue, 
rapes and pillages, spreads.disease in 
every pocket of native America, and 
you don’t even get a friggin’day off?! 
Unfortunately, that’s the good news. 
You see, Jupiter and Saturn are in 
the sky as we speak. This means that 
John Tesh may put out a new album. 
Be afraid. Be very afraid.
Libra
(September 23 - October 23)
I’ve decided you’re hopeless. I 
thought long/aii<3'hkrd about some 
great piece of advice to give to you 
this,week, biitll came up dryer than 
a geriatric wit-hnoK^Y. I don’t know 
what to say to yoii“anymore. You 
linen?'Maybe next week 
riNgive you another chance. Send 
nie sb|-rie email if you’re willing1 to 
exchange sexual favors for my 
unconditional forgiveness. 18 and 
over please.
Scorpio
(October 24 - November 21)
Let me,give you someadvice that 
my momraa; always tdld me: Don’t 
wear p^ties^nles^syou don’t mind 
getting them in a bunch, .What’s 
that supposed to mean, y6u ask? 
Well, ¿o*£eU you the truth;-1 have no 
friggin idea! ^an^yqu-lDfelle^e'that?! 
But it’s-always workeclior me* Look 
at where I ’am now/Fame, fortune,
a steady stream of svelte hard-bod- 
ies prancing through my apartment 
at all hours - I’ve got it made. So 
just take my advice, okay? Don’t 
question.
Sagittarius
(November 22 - December 21)
Sag, I think it’srhigh- time you 
started using your astrological 
make-up to yburl advantage/1^ 
Sagittarius is half man, half horse. 
Do you realizfe your potential?? 
You can be sti.ongy;^part;"SRiopSf, 
arid hung like a.-.ivefiTyou kno^.
1 Don’t be bashfui:my friends! You’ve 
got the best of two Worlds going for 
you. Don’t waste your days holed 
up in the bam. Saddle up and ride!
Capricorn
(December 22 - January 19)
Cappy, Cappy, Cappy^gjfou’ve 
done it again. You wore bladkf shoes 
with navy pantsJ Now^I may not 
have reached the fashion e&ielons 
of Joan Rivers and h€rannoying 
horse-toothed daughter, but I know 
a fashion faux-pals when I see one. 
This is no way t6 look, my dear. I 
suggest you peruse GoJmo for some 
new ideas. I don’t particularly care 
for.that magazine, but they sure 
know what they’re doing when it 
comes to bazooms. Qcfod luck!
Aquarius
(January 20 - February 18)
You’re: a brick house baby. You 
know the story of tfie three little 
piggies who all got their houses 
blown down by the.big bad wolf. 
But not yoiirs! Nothing can bloW 
you my friend! You are mighty 
mighty, but yoifre not lettin’ it all 
hang out/I suggest yo'u go to>a quiet 
place and meditate over this. Go to 
your happy place. -And^ go there 
often.
Pisces
(February 19 - March 20)
Some timesyttfpre^are just too 
manjfcfish in^^fe4-’i,laiow it can 
be hard 'sometimes, Dut I don’t 
qu_ite kno'w ivhat to, tell®you other 
than it’spnie to go fishing | N<$w is 
not the*time to be stucCTJTthe clus­
ter pla^ng Quake or^ruminating 
o^et tha'^ programming ' as^n- 
ment. The season isyoung! Getmit 
there before the pond is^fjozen over 
and s^lWing'^llbe'but a fleeting 
memory. GooQluckji^v friends.
Aries
(March 21 - April 19)
You know, that scene in Billy 
Madison Where Adam-Sandier is in 
the batht^B? AnS lie’S£)l||dng with 
the shampoo and conditioner? And 
he goes, “I’m betteir! I’m the sham­
poo! Iclf an tfi§ hair[’’ And then he 
goes, “I’m better! m> the condi­
tioner! I make the hair’shiny and 
smooth!” I love that pa/t. \
Taurus
(April 20 - May 20)
Let me explain some logic to you 
that may shed some light on a few 
things. 1. You are a bull. 2. You can 
bearrogantrSV'Beingarrogant can 
/alsabe known as. being full of one’s 
self. 4. As stated in number one, 
your “self” is bull. 5. You are full of 
bull. And everyone knows it/ I’d 
quit it with' the-/'-BS" my 
friend ...'e'vefyone knows yours is 
much stinkier than the rest.
Gemini
(May 21 - June 20)
Hey, Gemfni\ It’s bSen a while 
since I made an/incefi|_rack at you
Hahahahaha. I crack myself up 
sometimes. Anyway...quit sleeping 
with your siblings, ok? I know you 
know, but I feel the need to rein­
force how wrong and disgusting it 
is. Word.
Cancer
(June 21-July 22)
I know it can^be' fTStd havring an 
astrological name. that means the 
same thing as-a ravaging terminal 
illness*. I know it can do bad things 
to one’s self esteem,to be jiR'eried to 
nasty.,-tumo^a^ Vj5nS/mit you 
• “i3pfdver it^ometime,
guys, hasn’t^t? Wc^hooo. Time to 
get back^into the swing of things. 
Get it? JSwmgf'or things?
'sty t
jUSt'gOtta^CL OVCl IL'SUUlCUillC, yuu
know?-^^^like that happens. At 
least jjd&re not^yjirgo, you know? 
Talk about icUrse from birth!
Leo
(July 23 - August 22)
Leo, Leo, Leo. Kinda rhymes with 
Cheerio. Which in turn kind of 
rhymes with Julio/ I ¿orvjt quite 
know where this will leadyofryput I 
have a feeling it is significant. I say 
go out and Md |s m^^^julios' as 
you can, and sef%yhat_ you learn. 
The knowledge ypu’piln could be 
life-changing. ,L6vM#Know what 
happens.
Virgo
(Aug. 23 - Sept. 22)
Do you ever Wonder about your 
life? Ponder / yout;\ existence? 
Wonder why you get \up in the 
morning? Wonder wlio it is that is 
sleeping next tp.^ou? Do you ever 
wonder vyh^"your coffee tastes bad, 
wft$Tyou never seem to haVe, toilet 
paper™when\you need-it, why 
anyone would' ever'name their 
child Eugene?/ I do, top. I just waht 
you to know I’m here for you.
RETIREMENT INSURANCE MUTUAL FUNDS T R U ST S E R VIC E 5 T U IT I D N FI N A N CIN G
TIAA-CREF provides 
financial solutions to 
last a lifetime.
Building your assets is one thing. Figuring out 
how those assets can provide you with a 
comfortable retirement is quite another..
At TIAA-CREF, we can help you with both. You 
can count on us not only while you're saving and 
planning for retirement, but in retirement, too.
Just call us. We'll show you how our flexible range of 
payout options can meet your retirement goals.
With TIAA-CREF, you benefit from something few 
other companies can offer: a total commitment to 
your financial well-being, today and tomorrow.
•Note: Availability may depend on your employer's retirement 
plan provisions contract. Under federal tax law, withdrawals 
prior to age 59)4 may be subject to restrictions, and may also be 
subject to a 10% additional tax. Additional restrictions also 
apply to the TIAA Traditional Annuity.
fscm ObRRCT8Weu 
xaF -ir Ko-oshovp
• Cash withdrawals
• Systematic or fixed-period payments*
• Interest-only payments
• Lifetime income payments**
• A combination of these
•’‘Guaranteed by our claims-paying ability.
CREF GROWTH ACCOUNT
26.70*27.87%26.61>
1 YEAR 
AS OF 6/30/00
5 YEARS 
5/30/00
SINCE INCEPTION 
4/29/94
CREF Growth is one of many CREF variable annuities.
|i i Ensuring the futurefor those who shape it.“
1.800.842.2776
www.tiaa-cref.org
For more complete information on our securities products, please call 1.800.842.2733, ext. 5509, to request prospectuses. Read them carefully 
before you invest. 1. Due to current market volatility, our securities products' performance today may be less than shown above. The invest­
ment results shown for CREF Growth variable annuity reflects past performance and are not indicative of future rates of return. These returns 
and the value of the principal you have invested will fluctuate, so the shares you own may be more or less than their original price upon redemp­
tion. • TIAA-CREF Individual and Institutional Services, Inc. distributes the CREF and TIAA Real Estate variable annuities. • Teachers Personal 
Investors Services, Inc. distributes the Personal Annuities variable annuity component, mutual funds and tuition savings agreements. • TIAA and 
TIAA-CREF Life Insurance Co., New York, NY, issue insurance and annuities. • TIAA-CREF Trust Company, FSB provides trust services. 
• Investment products are not FDIC Insured, may lose value and are not bank guaranteed. © 2000 TIAA-CREF 08/03
BY ANDY FRANCIS
Ghost Dog: The Way of the Samurai
Thursday, October 12
This movie is about a tough guy in New York City .who studies 
Samurai stuff and is in the Mob and listens to the Wu-Tang 
Clan. Done. That said, it’s time for me to move on to the public 
service portion of the column. It seems like far too many people 
aren’t aware that certain things just are not funny, so I’m going 
to list a few of them and explain why they aren’t.
1) People (read: men) being kicked between the legs. Laughing 
at this slice of genius is basically admitting that pretty much any 
joke not involving a priest, rabbi, or nun goes way over your 
head.
2) “Whassup?” Easily the most tired, played-out piece of 
humor of the past decade. If your friends haven’t stopped you 
from saying this yet, maybe they’re not really your friends at all.
3) Saturday Night Live movies. Yes, I know Wayne’s World was 
really good, but does the world really need Stuart Saves His 
Family? If you answered ‘Yes” to that question, please start over 
reading at the beginning of this column.
4) Ads for thetruth.com. I don’t know if these are really clas­
sified as funny, but man are they stupid. That one where they 
put the body bags on horses and have them ride around makes 
me seriously consider making a large cash donation to Philip 
Morris and the gang.
5) Jay Leno. If you still need an explanation, please start over 
reading at the beginning of this column.
At 8 pm, 10 pm, and midnight
In McConomy Auditorium
Chicken Run
Friday, October 13
The first feature film from the claymation people behind the 
popular Wallace and Gromit series, Chicken Run is the story of a 
chicken named Ginger (voiced by Absolutely Fabulous’s Julia 
Sawalha) whose dreams of escaping the henhouse are boosted 
by the arrival of cocky flying rooster Rocky (Mel Gibson).
As an aside, I just visited the Internet Movie Database to 
check on the cast’s names, and read a blurb by someone who 
claimed to have seen the movie 31 times. In addition to desper­
ately needing to meet some women, this clown writes that he 
“deeply sympathize [s] with your lack of soul” if you decide to 
level any sort of criticism at this movie. Thanks pal, I appreciate 
the support. I was going to read more of his comments, but he 
started babbling about Chicken Run being the Second Coming, 
and then something about the Sign of the Beast and then I just 
lost interest.
Anyway, this is really a high quality film, suitable for people 
of all ages yet still worthy of viewing by adults (or even CS 
majors). So, bring the whole family along — even your illegiti­
mate kids
At 6 pm, 8 pm, 10 pm and midnight
In McConomy Auditorium
X-Men
Saturday, October 14
Comic-book movies are pretty much an uphill battle. 
Superman movies are uniformly lame: how about the one 
where he gave up his superpowers to score with Lois Lane? Give 
me a break. Meanwhile, the proprietors of the Batman fran­
chise are hard at work making Ed Wood-caliber films, only with 
more spandex. So what’s in store for X-Men, the big-screen 
adaptation of the best-selling comic book of all time? A reason­
ably entertaining movie (yes, I’ve seen it) though not nearly as 
inventive or spectacular as The Matrix (which, although not 
actually based on a comic-book, is arguably the best comic- 
book-style movie to date.)
I think the fundamental problem with comic-book movies is 
that they fail to delve into newspaper comics enough (with the 
exception of Peanuts and Garfield TV shows.) I mean, what if 
Cathy became a movie? Two glorious hours of her whining 
about being overweight and unattractive! Awesome! Save me a 
seat! Or how about Ziggy or The Family Circus, both of whom 
narrowly missed the list I made earlier in this piece? Clearly, 
though, the most notable omission from the roster of comics 
that have become animated features is Marmaduke. It’d be 
funny, you see, because he’s a dog! Get it? He does dog stuff like 
chasing cars and smelling bad and irritating his owner! That 
wacky Marmaduke!
At 4 pm, 6 pm, 8 pm, 10 pm, and midnight
In McConomy Auditorium
True Stories
Sunday, October 8
David Byrne, though not a filmmaker by trade, was neverthe­
less the frontman for a very cool band known as the Talking 
Heads, thus lending his directorial debut some immediate cred­
ibility. True Stories observes the lives of the eccentric inhabi­
tants of the fictional (though realistic) small town of Virgil, 
Texas. John Goodman co-stars as a guy just looking for a girl to 
settle down with; other, more ridiculous characters include a 
married couple who don’t speak to each other (Spalding Gray 
and Annie McEnroe) and a woman (Jo Harvey Allen) who 
claims to know the real Rambo (I’m not making this up.)
This movie, I’m convinced, could easily have been made here 
on campus. In fact, you could make it by accident if you simply 
turned on a videocamera and placed it, strategically, outside of 
Doherty Hall. As you read this, you might be wondering, “Is he 
talking about me? Am I one of those weird people people talk 
about like in the movie?” Yep, you sure are.
At 8 pm, 10 pm, and midnight
In McConomy Auditorium

---------------------------------------------------

THE TARTAN • OCTOBER 9,2000
UFÉK(wen-
&IOQO
WMAfr
Gpj)€dth(bby Scott Adams
NO ROOMS?? IF THE 
POPE SHOWED UP, WOULD 
YOU HAVE A ROOM FOR 
HIM? f \[
LET'S SEE YOU 
SQUIRM OUT OF 
THAT LOGIC, f 
WEASEL-GIRL.
STOP TVttvr;OKAY, THEN GIVE 
MÆ HIS ROOM.1
I AIA SO 
CLEVER.}
THE BUSINESS TRAVELERWHEN I BOUGHT 
THIS SUIT, IT 
SAID "WRINKLE- 
FREE" ON THE 
WRAPPER. '
I WRAPPER?
ScoiJOALOuS
CATBERT-- EVIL H.R. DIRECTORIT'S FOR. MY OWN 
BENEFIT. I PLAN TO 
TAKE NAPS WHILE 
LYING. IN THE SUN 
ON TOP OF YOUR HEAD.
WELL, X 
TRIEp.
EVERY DAY 
THIS JOB 
TEACHES ME I 
CAN GET USED 
TO ANYTHING.
HEY, WALLY, I PULLED 
SOME STRINGS TO GET 
YOU MOVED TO A 
WINDOW CUBICLE.
GRC-E+l^ôÇ aks6 linn
BREAK IT INTO A 
HUNDRED SEPARATE 
BUSINESS CASES.
YOU NEED A MILLION 
DOLLARS BUT I ONLY 
HAVE AUTHORITY 
TO SIGN FOR UP TO 
TEN THOUSAND.
THANK YOU FOR YOUR 
VALUE-ADDEO MANAGE­
MENT SUPPORT.
IT WAS 
NOTHING
PER YOUR INSTRUCTIONS, 
MY REQUEST FOR A 
MILLION DOLLARS HAS 
BEEN BROKEN INTO ONE 
HONORED BUSINESS CASES.
EACH OISE IS FOR TEN 
THOUSAND DOLLARS, 
WHICH IS YOUR EXACT 
LEVEL OF APPROVAL 
AUTHORITY.
I MEANT I r 
CAN APPROVE 
ANYTHING 
UNDER TEN 
THOUSAND 
DOLLARS... ^ 
SO IF YOU
WOULDN'T 
k\ MIND...
KILLING A 
YOU? NO, 1 
I WOULDN'T 
MIND A f 
BIT.
SO YOU'RE SAYING THAT 
MANY OF THESE POLICIES 
ARE NJOI INTENDED C 
TO BE PUNISHMENTS? )
OUR NEW CORPORATE 
POLICY IS THAT ALL 
EMPLOYEES MUST USE 
THE PRODUCTS WE SELL
YOU GET USED TO 
IT AFTER YOU 
( LOSE YOUR 
WILL TO 
ÌÉH LIVE.
by Kevin Burns 
I touchme @kubire. com
VQilxtiO
-Hwgr.Fe. 1—1 ULJv.
ny name, ¡S 
\TCWetr qïrl- 
swlio cure y*«L/
jour weekly sidebar about all things 
sheep-related
Every year, the sheep of the world 
gather in Berlin, Germany to celebrate the 
World Sheep Independence Day.
No, no one has told them sheep are 
still slaves to their human masters, to be 
bought and sold at will like
No, I’m not going to 
try, and neither are you.
Got it straight, vesjan boy? This sheePhas an 10 75° ° ' points lower than yours,
and he resents you 'for it.
U>aU)< +h«lc Urions 
on your 
we So
is
..»WV. ckick
Pv'*-+ fcxulV of 'Vin<è>i\pvet- -ftvere ! __^
can « •Wucli -Hie>vi?y 3'rS yoUL 
’ <~\r~—1 'BfiLSjc ¡¿ç V»e-poJ yot*]
v*»V»erft?
1337er than you are, buddy
Howdy, y’all. I am Comics Man; Comics Man I am. 
This is my first Comics section ever. Please, be gen­
tle. To celebrate my inaugural issue, United Media decid­
ed this would be a good time to crash their server and 
leave me with a single syndicated comic. The bastards! Its 
kinda like that time I threw a party and spent the night 
cleaning up vomit off my carpet. Deep, isn’t it?

---------------------------------------------------

The Harder They Are The Farder They Chew
Late Night Diner of Broken Dreams
by: James Kenney Jpkimr«y<3imdn»w.cinu.#<tu)
All night diners are amazing things, 
they provide both nourishment and 
entertainment. Last time I was at one, 
a waitress sat down to rest at a nearby 
booth, stuck her pinky up her nose and 
passed out face first into a plate of half 
eaten breakfast, exhaustion or cocaine?
My all night diner would have a crew 
of star actors such as Tom Cruise, 
and Helen Hunt. "Hey Matt Damon!
Put cheese on that table 31B burger!” 
The actors would perform the normal 
service tasks, but their main priority 
would be improvising dramatic conflict.
The Phatmaster
http://phat.res.cmu.edu/phatmaster/ïïi b’cv c Jr.® s j ’ dr ev/
Damn, PSC is down. Guess I have 
to turn to the local network.
My life is once again devoid of 
meaning. I hardly sleep, I 
feel alone, and night after 
night I sit at my computer.
Perhaps the Internet will have 
a solution.
Hey, what's this? You know, 
like that?
“Continuous objects, 
computable morphisms!”
Of course! It's what I've been 
searching quadratically for all 
my life!
I know why you're here.
You're 
looking for an answer.
What is the thesis? \
Unfortunately, 
no one can be told what 
the thesis 
is. You have to\see it for yourself.
Show me.
ir
Hey Mikey, I think he likes it.
' I I \-\
*.• going on© B NOtti in there?
Come back later.
I'm "busy."
Congratulations, Dr. Bnucr!
___ 1 augdrti me bleed STH\ 11
>€*r
Customers would be encouraged to 
participate in all the action. Waivers would 
be signed, holding me unaccountable 
for head shot injuries, severe bums and 
internal bleeding. I would draw the line 
nowhere, I want to see it all, my public 
deserves it alb sex, violence, arson!!!
Routine JobBy Yang Cai ycai@cmu.edu
Each week on TV I would air uncensored 
footage, edited for maximum drama of 
course. Critics would hail me for 
‘impregnating the real-TV world with 
both the surreal and the real, Tom Hanks 
meets Joe Schmoe and busts his head 
in with a pay phone while high on crack."
RiEn +UEN 8O N-
the goof> rdE’U'tf* \U£ 
sOlOuS- the BAP H£WS:
-Oi
KiKox-iK ir
frUft f>AYCHBCK!
IX
How to be Cool
a three step guide
INS DET TORAL AOBRASTFW 
CMD RPF HLAB DEAK PNDTU 
IALL AD NMD RPF KTPF AD
BY POST, COURIER, OR YAK. 
Comics is the best because___
YOU MAY PLACE 
POSTAGE HERE, 
OR JUST DRAW 
PICTURES
Attn: Comics Man 
The Tartan
University Center Suite 314 
Carnegie Mellon University 
Pittsburgh, PA 15213
If I had a dime for every reply I get, 
I still wouldn’t have a dime.
#1. Read the Comics section 
religiously. Devote all your 
free time to dissecting the 
multiple layers of meaning 
and humor present in each 
work of art.
#2. Write the Comics Man at 
dwindlehop+@cmu. edu with 
suggestions on how to 
improve this, the best of sec­
tions. Also send him money. 
#3. Rest back on your laurels 
and watch as the hotties come 
flocking to you as a result of 
your newfound coolness. 
W00T! Success is yours.

---------------------------------------------------

Calendar
9 October 2000THE TARTAN
Maya Angelou and Jaromir Jagr arrive in Pittsburgh
DO PITTSBURGH!
by Greg Nofi
Entertainment Editor
Classes are getting harder. Leisure 
time and disposable income are 
decreasing. So let’s cut the cutesy 
introduction and get straight to the list 
of 10 things to do in Pittsburgh that 
will prevent you from going insane. 
Most of them will not cause you to go 
broke either. For more details on these 
events, look them up below on the 
Calendar page:
• Canada has given us many great 
things: Wayne Gretzky, The Kids in 
the Hall, and even Much Music just to 
name a few. But Monday night at 8 
pm, another Canadian product is 
coming to campus. No, I’m not talk­
ing about Bob & Doug McKenzie, I’m 
referring to the nine-piece orchestral 
band godspeed you black 
emperor! These guys from 
Montreal create a sonic form of 
chamber rock. Their movie score-like 
music builds up in incredible intensi­
ty until it reaches a powerful 
crescendo. Meanwhile, they mix in 
audio samples to supplement their
sound. Since they will be performing 
in McConomy Auditorium, following 
Bardo Pond of Matador Records, 
they’ll be using video clips as well to 
complete the multimedia experi­
ence. Without a doubt, these guys 
are the greatest Canadian musical 
package since Céline Dion, eh?
• Will the Steelers win a Super 
Bowl while you’re at CMU? It’s possi­
ble, I suppose, but it’s highly unlike­
ly. I humbly suggest that if you want 
to see this dream come true, get a job 
in Pittsburgh. The place to look for 
such opportunities is @pgh.café. 
This event, which takes place on 
Tuesday from 3 to 7 pm in Rangos 
Hall of the University Center, brings 
local technology companies to cam­
pus to talk with students. The coolest 
part is that you don’t have to walk 
around in that Armani suit you wore 
to the TOC/BOC. You could even 
wear that Weezer “Rock Music” t- 
shirt from high school if you like.
• If you only make it to one 
Dimensions event while you’re at 
CMU, be sure to go to the Etiquette 
Dinner. The first din-din of the 
semester takes place this Wednesday 
at 6 pm in the Schatz Room of the
University Center. In addition to 
enjoying a fabulous four-course 
meal, you learn all the intricacies of 
table manners. And it’s all free as 
long as you register by calling 268- 
2075. It’s too bad that that guy who 
chews with his mouth open during 
lecture probably won’t be going to 
this event.
• Most people know Maya
Angelou as a distinguished author 
and poet who has penned several 
noteworthy works such as I Know 
Why The Caged Bird Sings. But did 
you know that she is also San 
Francisco’s first black female street­
car conductor? Or that she was the 
first African-American woman to 
have a play (Georgia, Georgia) pro- 
See PITTSBURGH, page Bll
courtesy of Kranky Records
With tape loops and other multimedia equipment, the nine-piece orchestral band 
godspeed you black emperor! takes the stage tonight in McConomy Auditorium.
monday, 10/9______ Wednesday, 10/1'
French Table/Discussion Group. 11:30 
am in Schoenwald Lounge, new Baker Hall 
Wing.
“Building Novel Interfaces” by Sidney 
Fels, assistant professor, The University of 
British Columbia, Vancouver, British 
Columbia, co-chair of Graphics Interface
2000, and co-chair of Vancouver Special 
Interest Group on Computer-Human 
Interaction (VanCHI). 4 to 5 pm in 
Hamerschlag Hall Room 1112. Refreshments 
at 3:30 pm. Contact: ECE Department at 
amp.ece.cmu.edui/ECESeminar/.
godspeed you black emperor! concert.
8 pm in McConomy Auditorium, University 
Center. Opening bands: Bardo Pond and 
Comae. Admission: $5 with CMU ID, $8 with­
out. Presented by AB Coffeehouse.
today, 10/10
CMU Women’s Tennis Team vs. 
Chatham College. 3 pm at the CMU tennis 
courts.
@pgh.cafi Job Fair. 3:30 to 7 pm in the
University Center. Contact:
www.pghtech.org/carnegie2.cfm or the Career 
Center at 268-2064.
Author Paulina Borsook talk. 4:30 to 6 
pm in the Adamson Wing, Baker Hall. The lec­
ture is sponsored by the New Media Forum.
Miracle Orchestra concert. The
Underground, Morewood Gardens. 
Admission: free. Sponsored by AB
Underground.
The Get Up Kids. 7 pm at Club Laga, 
Oakland. Admission: $10 in advance, $12 at 
the door.
From Uncle Sam to Selena: How images 
are used to shape US Foreign Policy towards 
Latin America by Kenya Dworkin, Modern 
Languages Department, Spanish. Noon to 
1:30 pm in the McKenna and Peter Rooms, 
University Center. Contact: Eva Mergner at 
268-4969 orem43@andrew.cmu.edu.
Andy Awards. 12 pm in McConomy 
Auditorium, University Center. President 
Jared Cohon recognizes the contributions of 
Carnegie Mellon staff members. Admission is 
free. Contact: Maryann Moore, 268-5052.
Etiquette Dinner. 5:45 to 7 pm in Schatz 
Dining Room, University Center. Attendance 
is limited to 30 people per session. RSVP: 
Jennifer Schmidt at jscc@andrew.cmu.edu to 
reserve a spot and request chicken or vegetar­
ian meal. Sponsored by the Office of the Dean 
of Student Affairs as part of Dimensions.
Mobot and MoboJoust Information 
Session. 6 pm in Wean Hall Room 5409. 
Presented by the Mobot (MObile roBOT) 
Committee.
Televised Presidential Debate. 8 to 10
pm in the Connan Room, University Center. A 
forum on the definition of student interests in 
politics will precede the debate showing at 9 
pm.
thursday, 10/12
Ghost Dog: The Way of the Samurai.
8, 10 pm, and midnight in McConomy 
Auditorium, University Center. Admission: 
$1 with CMU ID, $3 without. Presented by 
AB Films.
CMU Volleyball team vs. Chatham 
College. 7 pm in Skibo Gym.
voxpopuli
official voice of autumn sweaters
"my dick is the walrus., cookoo cachu”
pretty bird, pretty bird
I KNOW YOU STEAL IT
- A MESSAGE FROM THE RIAA
Tom,
who got the check mark 
by special teams?
WHAT? THERE'S ALCOHOL IN THIS?
shave my face with a rusty razor!
b-b-b-benny and the mets
Parrrrrraguay
sprinkles at midnight 
Put your weight on it!
crockpot 
Hellllllll No!
- we hate you. that’s why 
we don’t make fun of you.
- no, I'm just kidding.
- we hate you arid we 
make fun of you.
the streetlights are 
conspiring against me
alcohol + hummus = disaster
NEAL HEATON!
yer MOM
ahhh... to tackle a 
lump of juicy juice 
— would be lovely
mummy, he’s gone rotten
in accordance with what we think his 
last wishes might well have been...
Vox Populi is a forum open to the entire campus community! To 
submit a vox, simply email it to tarta,i@andre\Y.cmu.edu, send it 
to The Tartan, University Center, Box 17 via campus mail, or drop 
it in the Vox Populi drop box on the slick-looking Tartan server. 
The comments in this box do not reflect the views of The Tartan 
or anybody in general. It is basically a bunch of gibberish, and if 
anything sounds remotely real or interesting, then you're reading 
svay too much into it.
Maya Angelou lecture. 7 pm at Carnegie 
Music Hall, Oakland. Admission: $10 with 
valid CMU ID. Contact: 268-2075.
Talk by Gary Bolton, Department of 
Management Science & Information Systems, 
Penn State University. Noon in Porter Hall 
223D. Presented by the Social & Decision 
Sciences Behavioral Decision Theory Seminar 
Series.
“Ubiquitous Imaging” by Thomas M. 
Strat, co-founder and chief technology officer, 
DiamondBack Vision, Inc., Arlington, VA. 4 to 
5 pm in Scaife Hall Auditorium, room 125. 
Refreshments 3:30 pm. Contact 
amp.ece.cmu.edu/ECESeminar/.
Advanced Automobiles: A
Comparison of Their Environmental 
Attributes, Sustainability, and
Consumer Appeal” by Lester Lave, 
University Professor, John Higgins Professor, 
Graduate School of Industrial Administration 
and Engineering and Public Policy. 4:30 pm in 
the Adamson Wing, Baker Hall. Contact: Lisa 
DeFrank-Cole, 268-8704.
friday, 10/13
ESITE: Startup Job Fair. 10 am to 5 pm
in the University Center. Presented by the 
Career Center.
Interntionial Student Union: TGIF.
4:30 pm to 6:30 pm in the Danforth Lounge, 
University Center. Contact: Office of
International Education, 268-5231.
Modern Languages “French Table.” 5
pm in Skibo Coffeehouse.
Chicken Run. 6, 8,10 pm and midnight in 
McConomy Auditorium, University Center. 
Admission: $1 with CMU ID, $3 without. 
Presented by AB Films.
Happiness. 7 pm at The Andy Warhol 
Museum, North Side. Part of the Good Fridays 
Series and includes free gallery admission from
5 to 10 pm and cash bar. Contact: 
www.warhol.org.
CMU’s Men’s Soccer Team vs. St. 
Vincent College. 7:30 pm in Gesling 
Stadium.
Pittsburgh Penguins vs. Tampa Bay 
Lightning. 7:30 pm in Mellon Arena. Tickets: 
www.pittsburghpenguins. com.
CMU’s Women’s Soccer Team vs. 
Washington & Lee University. 1 pm in
Gesling Stadium.
X-Men. 4 pm, 6 pin, 8 pm, 10 pm, and mid­
night in McConomy Auditorium. Admission: 
$1 with CMU ID and $3 without. Presented 
by SDC Films.
The Kappa Gong Show. 7 to 9 pm in
Rangos Hall, University Center. Variety Show 
hosted by Kappa Kappa Gamma. All proceeds 
to benefit the Debra House. Sign up at the info 
desk in the UC or email zuteme@hotmail.com.
Roman Catholic Mass. 10:30 am and 8 
pm in Mellon Auditorium, Posner Hall. Also 
takes place daily at 12:30 pm in the University 
Center chapel. Contact: Roman Catholic 
Newman Center, 681-3181.
Pittsburgh Steelers vs. Cincinnati 
Bengals. 1 pm at Three Rivers Stadium.
ASA Mid-Autumn Festival. 4:30 pm in 
the Merson Courtyard, University Center.
True Stories. 8 pm, 10 pm, and midnight 
at McConomy Auditorium. Admission: $1 
with CMU ID, $3 without. Presented by AB 
Films.
Choral Compline. 8:30 pm at Heinz 
Memorial Chapel, University of Pittsburgh. 
Guest organist: Georgeann Kovac and 
Friends, Bethlehem Lutheran Church, 
Somerset. Contact: 682-6886.
ongoing
U.S.S. Nightmare. This Thursday and 
Sunday from 6:30 pm to 11 pm, and Friday 
and Saturday from 6:30 pm to 1 am at the 
Gateway Clipper, Station Square. Admission: 
$12. Contact: 355-7980.
Fright Fest. Wednesday through Sunday 
from 7 pm to midnight at IC Light 
Ampitheatre, Station Square. Haunted attrac­
tions, side shows, amusement rides, games, 
and more. Contact: 562-9905.
Oktoberfest. This Thursday through 
Sunday at the Church Brew Works, 
Lawrenceville. Events feature jazz music from 
several local artists. Contact: 688-8200.
Butterfly Forest. Tuesday through Friday 
from 9 am to 5 pm at Phipps Conservatory 
and Botanical Gardens, Oaldand. Admission: 
$6 for adults, $5 for seniors, $4 for students, 
$3 for children, and free for children under 2.
“Life on the Edge.” Through October 15 
at the Carnegie Museum of Art, Oakland. 
Features photographs of life where the land 
meets the water. Anne Heimann is the envi­
ronmental photographer showcased.
Sweepstakes Practices. From 5 to 9 am 
Saturdays and Sundays through November 12 
(weather permitting). Tech Street, Frew 
Street, and Schenley Drive will be closed to 
traffic.
The 2000 Pittsburgh Biennial.
Through November 5 at the Pittsburgh Center 
for the Arts. Admission: $3 for adults, $2 for 
students and seniors, and free for members. 
Contact: 361-0873.
Appointment in Samarra.” This 
Wednesday through Saturday in the Philip 
Chosky Theatre, Purnell Center. Presented by 
the School of Drama. Contact: the Drama Box 
Office at 268-2407.
UC Gallery: Carnegie Mellon
Photography Club. Through this Saturday 
in the UC Gallery, University Center. Contact: 
Bob Wilson at bwilson@andrew.cmu.edu or 
268-8704.
Monuments, Millionaires, and 
Memories: A Walking Tour of The 
Homewood Cemetery. Until November 5. 
Tours on Wednesdays from 10 to 11:30 am; 
Sundays from 2 to 3:30 pm; and the first and 
third Saturdays of each month from 10 to 
11:30 am. Meet at the Homewood Cemetery 
gates at Dallas Avenue. Admission: $6 per per­
son. Reservations: can be made by calling 
371-0600.
The Haunted Hoedown. October 13 and 
14. Bands start at 8pm at Pittsburgh’s 31st 
Street Pub. Presented by WRCT 88.3fm. 
Contact: Practically Penniless Productions at 
hogwild@gateway.ne or 421-5240.
Skibo Coffeehouse - Monday Madness, 
Try It Tuesday, Hot & Wild Wednesday, 
Thirsty Thursday, and Finally Friday. Monday 
through Friday, respectively, starting at 12:30 
pm in Skibo Coffeehouse, University Center.
Cross Currents. Monday through 
Saturday from 10 am to 4 pm through October 
31 at the University of Pittsburgh Art Gallery 
Henry Clay Frick Fine Arts Building. Contact: 
Josie Piller at jpiller+@pitt.edu or 648-2423.
Do you have an event you would 
like to publicize in The Tartan 
Calendar? It’s free! 
Send it to 
tartan@and.rew. emu. edu.
