Volume 88, Issue 21Carnegie Mellon University’s Student Newspaper Since 190621 March 1994
Structural flaws close courts
By EDWARD HAYES
Tartan Staffwriter
Tennis players anxious to take advantage of 
the warmer weather will have to wait a little 
longer. Unforeseen circumstances have closed 
the tennis courts until later this month.
A concrete bench, the tennis court surface, 
and the court’s lighting are the sources of the 
problems. “It must have been problems with 
the original application,” said Paul Tellers, 
University architect. “It’s not the weather.” 
The construction was done in July, while the 
court surface was done in August or Septem­
ber.
The first of the three problems concerns the 
concrete bench that is part of the south side 
retaining wall at the courts. “[The] bench has 
slumped,” said Tellers.
________________________ The problem can be blamed on “a pocket of
Pat Prasangit/Tartan Photographer moist, loose ground the contractors weren’t 
Cracks are appearing in this wall near CFA. aware of,” said Tom Murphy, associate direc­
tor of facilities planning and construction. 
Murphy said the weight of the bench was too 
much for the ground to handle, and it collapsed.
“There is absolutely no concern with the 
retaining wall,” Murphy said.
To repair the bench, two holes will be drilled 
on either side of it, and a beam will be placed 
under it near the bedrock. “The [bench] will be 
lifted up and permanently repaired,” said Tell­
ers.
The tennis courts themselves aren’t in per­
fect condition either. “The court surface is 
chipped,” said Tellers. When the final surface 
was laid, the third layer was put down too 
thick. As a result, one of the areas of the sub­
surface was too thick or too moist. In order to 
repair it, the surface will need to be relaid.
The final problem is with the lights that 
illuminate the courts. They are adequate for 
the players in the courts, but the glare from the 
lights tends to spill out on to the Cut and shine 
Please see COURTS, page 3
Dean wants GSIA’s rank to improve
By JASON TOGYER
'tartan News Editor
Three Carnegie Mellon gradu­
ate programs were ranked among 
the top 25 in the United States, 
but it’s not good enough, said the 
GSIA dean.
I think we can do a lot better,” 
s&id Robert Sullivan. “My expec­
tation is we’ll be doing a lot bet­
ter- In many areas, our measure­
ments are going to become even 
more positive.”
The yearly survey by U.S. News 
and World, Report ranked the 
overall graduate engineering pro­
gram 1 Oth in the nation (tied with 
Georgia Tech), with computer 
engineering ranked second after 
MIT; the graduate drama pro­
gram third, and the business 
school 13th.
U.S. News focused on such as­
pects as the schools’ reputation 
among deans and people in in­
dustry, student selectivity, the 
number of people who graduate 
after two years, and the success­
ful placement of students.
“[Placement performance] is 
one of the very important catego- 
ries that they have,” said 
Sullivan.
Sullivan questioned some of the 
ways statistics were calculated,
incuding the percentage of stu­
dents who receive degrees after 
two years. “Nearly 100 percent of 
our full-time students graduate 
in two years,” he said, but the 
U.S. News survey included part- 
time students. “We would go up 
in the rankings,” Sullivan said.
“The perception [of GSIA] is 
going to improve,” Sullivan said. 
“Part of that comes through in- 
Please see GSIA, page 3
Bboard posts 
bring charges
By JASON TOGYER
Tartan News Editor
In a case that could have 
broad impact regarding what 
language is permitted on CMU 
electronic bboards, a member 
of Student Goverment has filed 
charges of harrassment against 
another student, accusing him 
of harrassment and libel. The 
hearing before a University 
Committee on Discipline (UDC) 
was scheduled for this morn­
ing.
Erik Altmann, a computer 
science doctoral student, says 
that the charges against him 
are “absurd.”
“Imagine what the bboards 
would be like if I were con­
victed,” he sai d. “No one would 
be able to sit down and write a 
message without evaluating the 
risk. That’s the kind of censor­
ship that people don’t always 
talk about.”
Senator Donna Riley, who is 
acting as “moral support” for 
the plantiff, called Altmann’s 
commentary “bilious.”
“He was completely obsessed
with the person involved,” she 
said. “He named that person 
60 or 70 times in his posts over 
the course of six months.” The 
next closest were two people he 
mentioned eight times.
“The notion that someone 
who holds elected office has 
some right to be free from com- 
mentis fascism, basically,” said 
Altmann.
“Most often, University Com­
mittees on Discipline are con­
vened when students violate 
policies on campus,” said 
Patricia Harned, assistant to 
the dean of Student Affairs. 
This typically occurs when a 
student is brought before the 
UDC by Campus Police or an­
other University department. 
“Students themselves can also 
press charges against one an­
other,” said Harned.
The University’s policies are 
outlined in the Student Hand­
book, Harned said, and the 
UDC can also use the guide­
lines of state and federal law.
Students receive seven days 
notice before their hearing, said 
Please see CHARGES, page 3
THE TARTAN
Senate approves new fee split
$10,000 grants to Tilted Square, $5 Student Activities Fee increase tabled
By JASON HEINLEIN
1artan Staffwriter
The debate will continue in Stu- 
lent Senate as the proposals for 
ioth a five percent increase in the 
itudent Activities Fee and 
120,000 in grants to the Tilted 
iquare graduate coffeehouse 
vere postponed until a later date. 
The current proposal includes 
d increase in the Activities Fee 
yfive percent, which translates 
j a five dollar increase per stu- 
ent. The proposal for the Tilted 
Square is to give a “direct grant 
othe coffeehouse”, said Senator
Crystal Trexel, a senior IM ma­
jor. “[The Tilted Square] will get 
$10,000 this coming year and 
$10,000 the next year [if the reso­
lution is passed as is].”
Several other resolutions were 
passed that affect the Activities 
Fee, such as raising of the per­
centage of the graduate student 
Activities Fee that is given to the 
Graduate Student Organization 
(GSO). This amount was in­
creased from 37 percent to 40 
percent by Student Senate and 
the GSO, which translates to an 
additional $6,200 per year.
Under the new amendment, a
joint Senate/GSO committee can 
meet only once every three years 
to determine if the percentage of 
the Graduate Activities Fee given 
to the GSO should be increased 
or decreased. The maximum 
change every three years is three 
percent. “We also restricted it so 
that no matter what the change 
is, it is not going to have a huge 
effect,” said Senator Lara Wolf- 
son. “There is certainly $6,200 
worth of leeway in the budget.” 
“In terms of the three percent 
split, I think people are overre­
acting,” said CFASenatorMoneet 
Singh. “Just because it can move
three percent does not mean that 
it necessarily will.”
A clause in one suggested by­
law proposal would have allowed 
the two groups to meet more than 
once every three years, while 
maintaining the three percent 
total limit for every three years. 
“That means that you could [un­
der the old regulations] meet once 
a year and change it one per­
cent,” said Wolfson. This clause 
was changed before the bylaws 
were approved.
“The system we have now is 
arbitrary and the system that we 
have decided to put into place
actually looks more closely at 
numbers and would in fact be 
more accurate,” said Singh. “If in 
fact graduate students are par­
ticipating in a certain way, then 
their money should go to them.” 
To increase the student repre­
sentation in the fee split commit­
tee, an amendment was passed 
to make the percentage of under­
graduate and graduate students 
on it proportional to the actual 
percentages in the student popu­
lation. To help determine the 
needs of students for a change in 
the Activities Fee allocation, an 
amendment was passed requir­
ing the committee to survey both 
undergraduate and graduate stu­
dents’ involvement in campus ac­
tivities. Previously, only gradu­
ate students were surveyed. In 
addition, statistics are to be gath­
ered on each organization and its 
members to help determine the 
Activities Fee division.
To avoid a deadlock between 
the GSO and Senate, an amend­
ment was passed to lower the 
total Activities Fee by one per­
cent for every week that the rati­
fication of a new fee division is 
not agreed upon. “The Activities 
Please see SENATE, page 3
shown above, was one of three bands that performed at the 1 
imminent relocation. Other bands Included Squonk Opera am
Crew, EMS face 
loss of funding
By ANGELA MOLLOY
Tartan Staffwriter
Last Tuesday, March 8, Student Sen­
ate voteid overwhelmingly to cut its fi­
nancial support of the Emergency Medi­
cal Service, CMU-EMS. At tomorrow’s 
meeting it will vote on the fate of the 
University Rowing Club, as the funding
& recognition committee feels both 
groups have become too large and too 
expensive to support.
The decision to cut funds to CMU- 
EMS, came as no surprise to its officers. 
Chip Welch, a sophomore IMH major 
and CMU-EMS president, said that the 
service “had looked to get University 
funding in the past, but we haven’t had 
the time to pursue it.” Timing could end 
up hurting CMU-EMS. Although they 
had looked to University funding in the 
past, the sudden decision by Senate has 
left the service idle. Right now, said 
Welch, “we agree with what’s gone on so 
far... but we’re worried because this was 
popped on the University and us. Right
now we have no money for next year.”
Senate will continue to fund CMU- 
EMS for the rest of the semester, but 
CMU-EMS is hoping they will be picked 
up by a University office so they can 
continue their services next semester.
The vote on University Rowing Club, 
which receives about half of its funding 
through the Student Activities Fee, was 
tabled until this Tuesday. Senate is rec­
ommending that crew switch from a 
club sport to a full-fledged varsity sport 
next year.
The crew team at this point would like 
to go varsity in order to take advantage 
of the prestige and recognition that goes 
with the classification, but graduate stu­
dents, staff, and alumni are not allowed 
to participate in varsity sports at CMU.
The club is proposing to have a club 
and a varsity team so that “everyone 
gets a chance to row,” said Soren Roth, a 
junior physics major and the club’s presi­
dent.
The problems with the club right now 
Please see FUNDING, page 3
Living
It’s Greek Sing! • see 
page LI
Dossier
The literary & design 
supplement appears 
this week • see insert
This is the last issue 
of The Tartan until April 
11. Have a safe and 
restful spring break!
^versions, 
features ... fon/rn....
S«rts....bendar... 
Vox Populi.

---------------------------------------------------

2The Tartan • Carnegie Mellon » 21 March 1994
THIS JUST IN...
USAir, British Airways 
alliance will continue
WASHINGTON, March 18 (DJ) — 
The Clinton administration said Brit­
ish Airways PLC may continue its 
marketing alliance with USAir for 
another year, despite frustration over 
the British government’s refusal to 
widen other U.S. airlines’ access to the 
United Kingdom:
The administration extended an 
agreement that lets British Air link 
its international destinations to about 
65 of USAii-’s domestic destinations 
through shared computer-reservation 
codes. Butthe administration also said 
it wouldn’t allow expansion of the code­
sharing deal to more U.S. cities, as the 
two had sought.
U.S. officials also leftopenthe possi­
bility that President Clinton will re­
nounce the aviation treaty that allows 
such deals if the British don’t work 
toward a new treaty allowing U.S. 
airlines easier access to the U.K. “I 
have been very disappointed with the 
lack of progress in the negotiations 
over the past year,” said Transporta­
tion Secretary Federico Pena, who a 
year ago approved the USAir-British 
Air alliance for a 12-month trial pe­
riod.
Both USAir Group, Inc. and British 
Air said they were pleased. British Air 
added, “'We remain committed to the 
goal of a progressive liberalization of 
the bilateral relationship which is fair 
to the airlines of both countries.”
The two carriers are now serving 37 
U.S. cities with the joint flights, which 
allow passengers to fly on two airlines 
without worrying about separate res­
ervations, schedules and baggage han­
dling.
Negotiators for the U.S. lost lever­
age with the U.K. this month when 
British Air suspended plans to pump 
an additional $450 million into USAir, 
which is struggl ing to stem losses from 
a fare war. British Air, which has al­
ready invested $400 million in USAir, 
would need U.S. approval for the added 
investment.
Even ifthe U.S. renounced the treaty, 
its provisions would stay in effect for a 
year. After that, though, the U.S. could 
cut back British access to the U.S. 
through thecode-sharing arrangement, 
and the British could seek to curtail 
U.S. landingrights in London. Admin­
istration officials said they wanted to 
be able to review the renunciation op­
tion separately from the code-sharing 
deal. But no timetable is set for that.
The two countries haven’t held for­
mal talks on a new treaty since Decem­
ber. The U.S. is seeking more landing 
rights at London’s Heathrow Airport 
and greater freedom to fly passengers 
from London tootherinternational des- 
tinations.
But British officials have insisted 
Heathrow is already too crowded and 
have instead offered additional slots at 
other airports.
Late last week, British authorities 
informally offered a “minideal” that 
would have given U.S. airlines a few 
additional landing slots at London-area 
airports, but U.S. officials snubbed the 
offer, saying it didn't go nearly far 
enough.
/
More names implicated in Whitewater controversy
WASHINGTON, March 18 (DJ) — 
Next week, the House Banking Com­
mittee will hold general oversight hear­
ings on the Resolution Trust Corp., 
the thrift-cleanup agency. Rep. James 
Leach (R., Iowa) may use the hearings 
to release information that he says 
shows that “officials of the Kansas 
City RTC office are being gagged and 
possibly coerced by the Washington 
RTC office,” presumably to halt work 
on the Madison investigation.
However, memos from the RTC’s 
Kansas City office suggest that offi­
cials are pursuing the Madison inves­
tigation on a number of fronts, includ­
ing the business dealings of Dan
Lasater, a' former Little Rock bond 
dealer and Clinton campaign sup­
porter, as well as certain investments 
concerning Jim Guy Tucker, the cur­
rent governor of Arkansas.
Separately, Attorney General Janet 
Reno moved to fill the spot of Webster 
Hubbell, who is embroiled in a dispute 
with his former law firm and has been 
linked to some aspects of the 
Whitewater investigation. Ms. Reno 
named a career lawyer," William 
Bryson, as deputy associate attorney 
general. Mr. Bryson, who had been a 
deputy solicitor general, would become 
the acting associate attorney general 
when Mr. Hubbell leaves that office.
Treasury notes 
and bills devalue
NEW YORK, March 18 (DJ) — The 
prices of Treasury notes and bills are 
trading lower on market concerns of 
political uncertainty in Washington.
“We are pressing lower and the singu­
lar factor is the assumed implications of 
this White House meeting,” said Will­
iam Sullivan, senior vice president and 
director of money market research at 
Dean Witter Reynolds, Inc.
Only days before a Fed policy-making 
session, Federal Reserve Board Chair­
man Alan Greenspan was called into the 
White House for what officials are call­
ing a “fairly routine” meeting.
“Even if it’s only routine, the packag­
ing of this meeting creates a no-win 
situation for bonds,” Sullivan said.
“This is a damage control situation; 
the feeling is if they [The Federal Re­
serve Board] don’t tighten soon it’s re­
lated to political factors,” he said. “Any 
delay can be interpreted as being im­
posed by the White House.”
Presidential aide Gene Sperling said 
the White House issued an invitation to 
Greenspan sometime in the last few 
days to come to the White House and 
discuss economic issues with President 
Clinton.
“I think this is a time where a lot of 
people have their own theory as to why 
things are happening in the market,” 
said Sperling. He said this was an oppor­
tunity for Clinton to hear Greenspan’s 
“theories” and “general views” on how 
the economy is performing.Clean-air policy 
gets scrapped
WASHINGTON, March 18 (D J)—The 
Clinton administration is preparing to 
withdraw a clean-air regulation chal­
lenged by Venezuela under the General 
Agreement on Tariffs.and Trade, The 
Wall Street Journal reported.
The rule, which is intended to reduce 
smog-producing chemicals, requires 
Venezuela to impose increasing cost con­
trols on the gasoline it ships to the U.S. 
It was issued in its final form in Decem­
ber.
Withdrawing it would be an unusual 
regulatory move and would likely stir 
opposition from environmentalists and 
the U.S. domestic-oil industry.
Officials of the U.S. Trade Represen­
tative, the State Department, the En­
ergy Department, and the Environmen­
tal Protection Agency concluded at a 
White House meeting this week that the 
regulation would have to be withdrawn 
and modified because in its present form 
it was likely to violate GATT. A Clinton 
administration official said no final de­
cision has been made on the matter.
Alteration of the rule is vigorously 
opposed by the Sun Co. and several 
other domestic-oil companies that com­
pete with Venezuela’s state-owned 
Petroleos de Venezuela SA.
The Venezuelans have argued that 
the rule discriminates against foreign
oil companies because the formula they 
must follow differs from the one that 
applies to U.S. companies.
Supporters of the rule contend the 
difference is necessary because foreign 
refinery methods are harder for U.S. 
regulators to police.
Separately, the EPA said a vehicle- 
inspection program approved by the 
California state legislature resolves a 
dispute between the agency and the 
state.
The EPA contended that California’s 
current program, which allows service­
station operators to certify their own 
repairs as being in compliance with fed­
eral smog requirements, violated the 
1990 Clean Air Act.
The agency several times threatened 
cutoff of federal highway funds if Cali­
fornia didn’t require independent in­
spection and certification of such re­
pairs.
The California law reflects a compro­
mise reached between federal regula­
tors and state officials. Under it, 15 
percent of California motor vehicles will 
go to inspectors who do not perform 
repairs.
Diabetes drug makes progress
WASHINGTON, March 18 (DJ) — A 
U.S. Food and Drug Administration ad­
visory panel recommended U.S. mar­
keting approval for Lipha Pharmaceuti­
cals’ Glucophage drug for the treatment 
of non-insulin dependent diabetes in 
patients whose hyperglycemia can’t be 
controlled by diet alone, according to 
Federal Filings Inc.
Lipha Pharmaceuticals is the U.S. arm 
of Lipha S.A. in France, a unit of the 
Swiss company Merck AG.
The company beat back efforts to re­
strict the drug to patients for whom 
current treatments are-contra-indicated.
In addition, the company was able to 
convince panel members . that 
Glucophage is a unique drug that pro­
vides some benefits over available treat­
ments.
Currently available treatments in­
clude Micronase, made by Upjohn & Co. 
and Glucotrol, made by Pfizer Inc.
- The panel recommended that a vari­
ety of post-marketing studies be con­
ducted on Glucophage, including the ef­
fects of the drug on elderly patients, the 
effect of the drug in combination with 
available treatments and the incidence 
of lactic acidosis.
Troubles brewing] for African police!
PRETORIA, South Africa March lf| 
(D J)—Ajudicial commission announce 
it has evidence that senior South Aftl 
can police gave arms to the Inkatha 
Freedom Party and trained hit squad] 
involved in political violance.
The allegations support longstanding 
ANC contentions of a so-called “Thirl 
Force” clandestine security force involve] 
ment in the political violence between 
the ANC and Inkatha that has killed 
more than 11,000 people in the pas 
three years.
Implicated in the report, hundreds o| 
pages long, was the No. 2 officer in the] 
South African Police force plus two other 
top police generals.
President F.W. de Klerk announcedl 
the officers named had been placed o 
immediate leave.
Congress okays education plan
WASHINGTON, March 18 (DJ) -A| 
House-Senate conference committee I 
approved President Clinton’s major edu-1 
cation package, favoring provisions that I 
give school districts greater flexibility! 
The Wall Street Journal reported. The I 
$422 million plan, called Goals 2000, [ 
would establish eight national educa-l 
tion goals and set up a panel to devise I 
model academic and testing standards. |
The compromise version of the 1 
still needs to be passed by the House and I 
Senate. Unless they do so by the end of I 
next week, the bill’s $105 million appro-1 
priation for this fiscal year will expire. [ 
The conferees settled differences be* | 
tween the House and Senate versions o: 
the bill mainly by making the legislation I 
less prescriptive. They decided states I 
didn’t need to devise so-called opportu-1 
nity-to-leam standards in their educa-1 
tion-reform plans, but can simply de-1 
scribe how they’ll ensure student access I 
to such things as up-to-date curricula. [ 
The conferees also included a demon-1 
stration project that will allow six states I 
to waive federal regulations that im- 
pede local school efforts at reform.
Goals 2000 encourages school reform, 
but doesn’t mandate anything. If states I 
want to get federal money to improve 
their schools, they must submit compre­
hensive plans to the Education Depart- | 
ment.
News Briefs Courtesy 
Bow Jones
Layout By 
Eric J. Salzman
? DD
SUMMER 1994 
REGISTRATION DAY 
TUESDAY, APRIL 12,1994
\ : ¦
All students should register on Registration Day if they wish to enroll for Summer 1994. Summer 7 994 Schedule of Classes, are available 
at the Skibo Information Desk, outside the CFA Dean's Office and inside the main entrances to Baker Hall and Doherty Hall.
1. Pick up a Summer 1994 Schedule of Classes. Plan course 
selections and alternatives.
2. Go to the departments teaching the course(s) in which you 
wish to register on registration day (or after), between 9:30 am 
and 4 pm, or go to the Office of the Registrar, Warner Hall 201. 
They will enter the course(s) directly into your schedule on the 
Student Information System and sign approval on the RAD. 
Remember that if you are on a "wait list" for a course, you are
not registered for the course; you must add the course later (if 
approved.)
3. Return the completed, signed Registration/Add/Drop form to 
your department. The goldenrod copy is yours to keep.
P.S. You will receive confirmation of your course schedule in the 
mail the last week of April.
Brought to you from the Office of the Registrar, Warner Hall 201, 268-2004

---------------------------------------------------

The Tartan • Carnegie Mellon • 21 March 19943
Senate okays new fee rules
SENATE, from page 1
fee split has come up again and 
again because there was no 
mechanism for adjusting it”, 
said Wolfson.
This new amendment speeds 
up the political process and it 
lowers the activities fee for the 
students if the two groups de­
lay. “I think it’s a pretty good 
idea,” saidTrexel. “I think it is 
a good penalty for delaying be­
cause it affects everyone, and 
the students will like it.” 
Wolfson said, “GSO and Sen­
ate have a real incentive to get 
their acts together, because 
otherwise they don’t have as 
much money as they want.”
It was decided that for fair 
representation of the entire
campus, students do not need 
to pay their activities fee to 
vote in Senate elections and 
referendums. “If the student 
government is truly to be rep­
resentative, then people who 
don’t pay the activities fee also 
have to be a member of the 
constituency,” said Wolfson.
Because the debate on the 
amendments was so lengthy, 
Senate postponed the decisions 
on the increase in the activities 
fee and the $10,000 grant to 
the Tilted Square until a later 
date. Accordingto Student Sen­
ate chair Burt Holzman, Sen­
ate was eager to deal with other 
pressing problems, so that the 
leaders of the organizations 
affected would be able to leave.
Crew, EMS may lose funding
GSIA dean wants 
to improve rank
GSIA, from page 1
teractions in executive management programs, which have a 
fairly significant impact.
“Placement is up significantly,” he said. “We are clearly near 
the top, a clear indication that industry is putting faith in us.” 
“There’s a lot more in terms of the value of an institution than 
what gets captured in the numbers,” said Sullivan.
He said that these include the school’s ambience and sense of 
community. “The attention faculty pays to the program and 
their innovations are not captured,” he said.
“It’s getting very congested at the top,” Sullivan said. “It 
doesn’t take but a little bit of change to shift the rankings much.”
FUNDING, from page 1
are the “financial issues and alle­
viating the burden [on Senate],” 
said Roth. Crew currently has a 
subsidy of $26,510 for the 1993- 
94 academic year. Their expenses 
are paid in part by Senate, along 
with a portion from the Athletic 
Department, and through their 
own internal fundraising. If Crew 
were to go varsity, a larger share 
would come from the Athletic 
Department as Crew would be 
receiving benefits like travel ex­
penses and access to a team phy­
sician. Roth said the move would 
be a “big jump in the money the 
Athletic Department would have 
to take on.”
This new money is something 
the Athletic Department cur­
rently does not have, said Dr. 
John Harvey, CMU athletic di­
rector.
Harvey said right now, the Ath­
letic Department “budget is pretty 
tight,” and it would be “almost an 
impossibility” to take on Crew as 
a varsity sport.
Harvey said he is a “big sup­
porter of Crew,” but the “depart­
ment is losing ground because 
the operating budget does not
increase as much as inflation rates.” 
Right now, the Athletic Depart­
ment would be able to provide some 
low-end funding to the team, but.it 
would have to cut something cur­
rently within the department in
trust and exposure [from Cam­
pus Police],” said James Ma­
son, a sophomore IM major and 
CMU-EMS operations man­
ager.
CMU-EMS has expanded be-
"...2TheT 2aeerTt nT•CgiT Mlri 2Ci 
oaooTt a» MlT 1»rcTeirM9 C»t a» gi4 ”
— 3lro GTS•lI 
oeTirtT»M, 3A1dwAs
order to take on Crew. “I want to 
see them survive,” said Harvey, but 
right now, “we’re scrambling to keep 
current things going.”
Both CMU-EMS and Crew have 
grown tremendously and have 
taken on either more responsibility 
or more expenses than Senate can 
handle. According to CMU-EMS, 
In 1990, it received only 17 calls. In 
1993, it received a record 255.
CMU-EMS is dispatched by Cam­
pus Police, and their growth in call 
referral can be attributed to CMU- 
EMS’s “professionalism, experi­
ence, training, and the increased
yond serving students. It is stu- 
dent-run, with approximately 
25 volunteers ranging in expe­
rience from those with no certi­
fication to full paramedics. They 
respond to any emergency on 
campus, involving faculty, staff, 
or students.
CMU-EMS is a Quick Re­
sponse Service (QRS). They are 
something like an advance 
team for the city of Pittsburgh. 
Their response time is less than 
three minutes and they are able 
to respond to a medical call 
before the city, which has a
response time of five to 35 min­
utes because of their high volume 
of calls. In 1994, CMU-EMS has 
received 84 calls, and its mem­
bers say they do not want to shut 
down the service.
The Rowing Club will have to 
wait until Tuesday to see what 
Senate decides. Currently there 
are approximately 60 members 
in the club, and more than half 
are undergraduates. Roth said, 
“What we’d like is to get the bur­
den off of [Senate’s] shoulders as 
much as possible,” but complete 
self-support is not possible in the 
short term, especially when the 
cost of one boat can total up to 
$15,000.
Roth said a varsity team would 
attract more students into Crew, 
and they are “very willing to go 
along with it ... and work with 
Senate.”
This will be the fourth time 
Crew has tried to go varsity. With 
most departments within the 
University operating on tight 
budgets, the Crew Club and 
CMU-EMS are still searching for 
financial security.
Members of Senate were un­
available for comment.
Unanticipated flaws close courts
COURTS, from page 1
on Margaret Morrison Carnegie Hall. “We’re 
taking measures to prevent that,” said Tell­
ers.
None of the repairs will begin until late 
spring. The bench will be worked on during 
spring break, while the other two will have to 
wait until the weather gets warmer. Murphy
said no work can be done while it’s cold and 
there’s snow on the ground. “I suspect the 
whole thing will take a couple of weeks,” said 
Murphy.
The repairs will not cost the University any 
money, as the contractors will make the nec­
essary repairs. According to Tellers, the work 
will be done to the University’s specifica­
tions.
“This is a no-fault situation,” said Tellers, 
“the University is not blaming [the contrac­
tors].” He said these are isolated incidents 
and do not mean there will be future prob­
lems with the tennis courts. After the rejpairs 
are done, the tennis court area should per­
form as its designers intended.
Major changes planned for University Libraries
By JESSE NICE
; Tartan Staffwriter
Major changes are underway at Uni- 
| versity Libraries, and the effects will
I impact anyone who checks out library
I materials.
This summer, the libraries will be 
implementing a new software system 
called Horizon which will lead to many 
changes in current library policies. Ho­
rizon, currently in testing, will assist in 
many library functions including circu­
lation, cataloging, and acquisitions.
Demand to improve service
The introduction of Horizon corre­
sponds with a ongoing demand that the 
libraries improve service. The Task 
Force on Libraries in Undergraduate 
Education has made several sugges­
tions aimed toward improving circula­
tion policies.
These suggestions were then ap­
proved by the Faculty Senate Library 
Advisory Committee and approved by 
Faculty Senate in May 1993.
“We worked on the changes for a 
year,” said Barbara Yaunt, supervisor 
of circulation services. “We looked at 
other schools, and frequent complaints. 
We need to balance user needs versus 
the resources of the library so we can 
provide equitable access.”
The changes will include grace peri­
ods for overdue items, penalties for 
disregarding recalls, suspension of bor­
rowing privileges and length of loan 
periods.
For students fines for regular materi­
als will stay at 25 cents per day with a 
new three-day grace period. There will 
be no fines for materials returned within 
three days of the due date.
Because of the high demand for peri­
odicals, other journals, and reserve ma­
terials, fines will be set at 50 cents per 
hour for students and faculty. Journals 
and reserve materials will have a one 
hour grace period.
Reluctance to return recalls
People will now be able to recall ma­
terials after seven days and can expect 
to have the recalled material within 
seven days of the recall.
“One of the hardest things to do is to 
get people to [return] recalls,” said Erica 
Linke, assistant University librarian.
People however, seem reluctant to 
recall materials when they need them. 
“People are reluctant to demand their 
rights,” said Melanie Myers, director of 
library automation.
When regular materials are 30 days 
overdue the patron’s borrowing privi­
leges will be suspended.
However, for journals and reserve 
materials, borrowing privileges will be 
suspended when the items are seven 
days overdue.
Several new features are also being 
developed for future implementation. 
A network-accessible catalog with cir­
culation information hopefully will- be 
available by the fall semester, said 
Yaunt.
The capability to issue recall notices 
and overdue notices automatically by 
email is being developed.
Posts lead to harassment charges
GUARDS, from page 1
Hamed. The University aims to keep 
the process from being “onerous” to the 
student, she said, and wants it to be “as 
expedient as possible.”
Harned refused comment on the 
charges filed against Altmann. Because 
of confidentiality rules surrounding UDC 
proceedings, neither Altmann nor 
Hamed would say who the plantiff in 
the case is.
“Of course public officials should be 
willing to accept criticism,” said Riley. 
“This is not about that. As student sena­
tors, it’s our duty to read that bboard. 
We’re a captive audience. There’s a dis­
tinction to be made between discussion 
bboards and graffiti bboards and this 
one, which is a workspace.”
“This workspace thing is an excuse to 
create a bunch of rules, essentially,” 
said Altmann. “The work done by elected 
officials is public work. The public needs 
to be able to discuss it. If you regulate 
the content of public discussion, then 
you’re censoring political speech.”
“Erik seems to think that all elec­
tronic spaces are the same,” said Riley. 
“Electronic spaces are as varied as any 
other space. Assocs.student-senate is a 
workspace.”
“Even if bboards were a workspace, 
the work of government is public,” 
Altmann said. “Some of the people who 
have argued that bboards are a 
workspace have sent me very nasty per­
sonal email. Suddenly, my private email 
box is not a workspace.”
“It is not appropriate to destroy the 
workplace that student senators are try­
ing to use,” said Riley. “This is not about 
people’s right to be nasty on the ’net. It’s 
about which bulletin boards are appro­
priate for these attacks.”
Harned said that the University’s poli­
cies on harrassment are outlined on page 
50 ofthe Carnegie Mellon Student Hand­
book.
“Carnegie Mellon is firmly committed 
to intellectual honesty, freedom of in­
quiry, and expression, and respect for 
the dignity of each individual,” says the 
Handbook. “Acts of harrassment or in­
timidation of any member of the com­
munity are inconsistent with this 
committment and will hot be tolerated.
“Such acts may include, but are not 
limited to, cases involving race, ances­
try, color, national origin, gender, handi­
cap, religion, creed, belief, age, veteran 
status, or sexual orientation,” it says, 
and concludes by directing victims of 
harrassment or intimidation to the dean 
of Student Affairs.
Altmann said that some of the harsh­
est criticisms he’s levied at his accuser 
in the past included references to her 
alleged “psychopathologies.”
“That term essentially reflects a popu­
lar belief,” he claims. “That’s not a reck­
less statement.
Riley said that in one of Altmann’s 
posts, he told Graduate Student Organi­
zation President Tim Mallo to “curb” the 
plantiff.
“That’s something you say about a 
dog. That seems really offensive,” she 
said. “It’s implying that Tim had the 
power to do that and that [the person] 
was some kind of animal.”
“Assuming that you’re going to make 
CMU a microcosm of the real world, say 
I’m a man, and I want to tell Lynn 
Yeakel, who’s runningfor governor, ‘Suck 
my cock, you’re a bitch. You’re a whore,’ 
and I put that in the paper,” said Riley. 
“That’s free speech. If I show up at every 
town meeting Lynn Yeakel has and say
it, that’s definitely on the level of 
harrassment.”
“I think that the same rules that apply 
nationally to public forums should apply 
to the bboards,” said Altmann. For ex­
ample, he said, the national standards 
of libel.
“Libel requires reckless disregard for 
the truth,” he said. “If I accuse someone 
of being a member of the Ku Klux Klan, 
then I better have some reason to think 
that. If I know that it’s false, and it can 
be shown that I knew it was false, then 
that’s libelous.”
TheAssociatedPress Stylebook defines 
libel as “injury to reputation.”
“Words, pictures, or cartoons that ex­
pose a person to public hatred, shame, 
disgrace, or ridicule, or induce an ill 
opinion of a person are libelous,” says 
the Stylebook. “There is only one com­
plete and unconditional defense to a 
civil action for libel: that the facts stated 
are provably true [emphasis as in the 
original].”
A lot of the things that get said in 
public discourse are opinion, and not 
proven,” said Altmann. “People make 
statements in error, and people are 
harsh.”
“If you can’t stand public scrutiny, 
then get out,” he said. “None of the 
statements that I’m accused of, none of 
the evidence, has to deal with private 
communication. It’s all public, involving 
someone’s actions as a public figure.” 
“[The plantiff] is not a public figure,” 
said Riley. “[They] are an elected official 
within the CMU community.”
“It’s not so much what’s been said, but 
where and how much,” said Riley. “The 
kind and level of ad hominem attacks 
Erik has been making are completely 
unacceptable and inappropriate.”
3aeeT•Mra»444
The Tartan corrects all known errors of fact. If you know of 
suchanerror.contactTartan Editar-in-ChiefAndrew Sproule at 
268-2111, or write him in care of The Tartan, Box 17, Carnegie 
Mellon University, Pittsburgh, 15213-3890.
Carnegie Mellon in Brief
mlT mCeMC» »TTti 2erMTeip vae kaeT 
r»5aekCMra»I •CSS FORdFUUUI ae iMao 
n9 sVrna EL4
—THE TARTAN'
Carnegie Mellon’s Student Newspaper Since 1906
CMU chosen as finalist in environmental competition
Environmental Health and Safety announced recently that 
Carnegie Mellon is one of the top three Finalists in the Three Rivers 
Environmental Awards competition. This annual competition spon­
sored by Duquesne Light and the Pennsylvania Environmental 
Council, recognizes excellence in advancing environmental quality 
in Western Pennsylvania. The winner will be announced April 14.
Carnegie Mellon’s application in the “organization” category de­
scribed efforts by departments, faculty, staff, and students in all 
areas from recycling to waste reduction, including development and 
implementation of a campus wide recycling policy, creation of a full­
time Recycling and Waste Manager position, divertion of 1,128 tons 
of materials from landfills in the past three years, design and 
construction of a composting station by,faculty and students, forma­
tion of the Environmental Institute, design of a new trash can for 
recyclables, coordination of phonebook and newspaper drives, and
publication of the “Reduce, Reuse, Recycle” brochure, available from 
EH&S. People with questions should contact Barb Kviz, Recycling 
and Waste Manager, at x8-7858. Kviz called reaching the finals an 
“honor for all of us at Carnegie Mellon.”
Staff Council casts vote for “smoke-free” campus
At last Thursday’s meeting of Staff Council, the group voted to 
approve a resolution calling for a “smoke-free” campus. The group 
cited a 1992 report about the dangers of second-hand smoke and 
what it called the “[University’s] special responsibility for protecting 
the health of its students, faculty, and staff.”
The resolution calls for banning smoking from all campus build­
ings and the sale or advertising of tobacco products from campus.
Compiled by 
JASON TOGYER

---------------------------------------------------

FORUM
CMU parking situation 
needs further scrutiny
With the upcoming destruc­
tion of Skibo Hall and construc­
tion of the new student center, 
the parking problem at CMU 
will increase. Skibo parking lot 
will be gone, and there are no 
plans for replacing it. The new 
student center has no garage or 
lot in its plans. In addition, the 
construction of a new fine arts 
center means more demand for 
parking spaces.
These two situations will only 
cause more problems for the 
CMU community, who depend 
on campus parking lots during 
the day. CMU parking has al­
ready caused problems for these 
people with extremely high costs 
for a parking permit, and that 
they oversell permits; thus, not 
guaranteeing a space to some­
one who may have paid over 
$800 for one.
And what about resident stu­
dents who have cars? By the 
time residents come up, most 
spaces are already sold. Add that 
to the lack of non-metered street 
parking in the area, and resi­
dents are often scrambling for 
parking spaces.
The logical solution to most of 
these problems is to increase 
parking areas. However, with 
the loss of Skibo lot and no obvi­
ous replacement, how can park­
ing be increased?
CMU can look to two of its 
neighboring universities for 
help.
Duquesne, faced with the loss 
of a parking lot when they built 
a new football stadium, in­
creased the size of their parking 
garage to cover the loss. Pitt has 
a large parking lot off campus, 
and has a shuttle which runs to 
and from the lot on a regular 
basis.
Problems with expanding the 
garage at Gesling Stadium have 
prohibited the building from 
being any taller. What about 
building down? CMU should be 
able to build a garage into the 
basement levels of the student 
center, building down into the 
earth as deep as they want. Five, 
six, and seven-level under­
ground garages are not unheard 
of today. Just one of these would 
probably solve parking prob­
lems on campus for years to 
come. '
However, with plans for the 
student center already com­
plete, adding a garage to the 
center may not be an option. 
What about another parking lot, 
off-campus, with a shuttle run- 
rung to it? A large lot should 
resolve most of the parking prob­
lems.
The problem with this plan, of 
course, lies in the shuttle idea. 
CMU’s shuttle is stretched thin 
now it still doesn’t run to Squir­
rel Hill and adding a distant 
parking lot might not be fea­
sible. Improving shuttle service 
would be a necessary part of a 
new parking plan to improve 
parking, and might even help 
alleviate some problems by en­
couraging off-campus students 
to ride the shuttle rather than 
commute.Room draw process 
demands improvement
The room draw process can be 
a long and tedious process to 
undergo every year. Many 
people complain that the method 
used is much too inefficient and 
takes up too much time.
We would like to offer housing 
and students some suggestions 
for changes in the current sys­
tem.
We propose that the location 
of the room draw move to a larger 
room such as the More Lounge, 
the Gym, or even the Drill Deck 
of the Navy Building. With a 
larger area, all students from a 
given time block would be able 
to be in the room to find out 
what room openings were still 
available before they actually 
walked up to the table. This 
year there was a large poster on 
the wall indicating the room 
types in individual dorms were 
no longer available, but students 
could not see this sign until their 
numbers were called in. Also, 
maybe more computers in the 
room would help students lo­
cate available living space while 
they waited. As it is the comput­
ers are updated once after Phase 
I room retentions and then dur­
ing Phase II, they are posted by 
10 am everyday. This does not 
help to find out which rooms 
were signed for on that specific 
day.
Consideration should be given 
to changing the time blocks in 
which room draw numbers are 
scheduled. This year, times were 
updated according to the rate at
Letters to the Editor
Reader applauds response to ad
OÜ
Letter to 
the Editor
Editor:
I was very im­
pressed by the amount 
of money that the Hu- 
man Life Alliance 
(HLA) was willing to 
use to disseminate its ideas. I was more 
impressed, however, by Abby Schiff’s 
response [“Pro-life ad intentionally mis­
leads,” 3/14]. Schiff denounced, in a care­
ful and thoughtful way, the demagogic 
arguments and emotionally arousing 
tricks used by the HLA. Thank you for 
publishing Schiffs article in the same 
issue of The Tartan that contained the 
HLA advertising supplement.
Although I understand that for many 
people, it does not really matter whether 
they are a majority or a minority; an
abortion is morally equivalent to a mur­
der, it is not the job of the state to forbid 
it by law. The state only has the right to 
limit the freedom of the citizens when it 
can be rationally argued that the exer­
cise of that freedom is damaging to soci­
ety. This is the rationale for defending a 
woman’s freedom to choose to have an 
abortion.
Under the cover of various arguments 
(mostly false ones, as Schiff aptly showed) 
— the dangers of abortion, the amount 
of blood involved, the testimony of women 
who are sorry they have chosen to have 
abortions, the identification of murdered 
fetuses with healthy, happy babies, and 
so on, what the HLA really wants is to 
have the state limit our freedom. Fortu­
nately, I think this is unacceptable for 
most Americans.
Luis Lavoura 
Research Visitor 
Physics Department
The editorials appearing at the be­
ginning of the opinion section are 
the official opinion of The Tartan 
editorial board. Columns and po­
litical cartoons are the opinions of 
individual creators. The Tartan re­
serves the right to reject or condense 
any column or political cartoon. Let­
ters to the Editor are opinions of 
authors who are usually, but not 
necessarily, m embers, of the Univer­
sity community. A letter intended 
for publication, must be signed and 
include the writer's address and 
phone number for verification. 
Names will be withheld upon re­
quest. The Tartan requests tkat let­
ters be no longer than 500 words. 
The Tartan editorial board réserves 
ike right to withhold from, publica­
tion any copy it deems unfit for 
publication.
Technology threatens education
which students went through 
room draw last year. Apparently 
this still didn’t work as hoped. 
Possibly hour long time blocks, 
accommodating 30 or 40 num­
bers, could be scheduled.
The possible changes are not 
only ideas for housing, but also 
for residents themselves. Stu­
dents could help speed up the 
process by havingthought about 
roommates and made a list of 
four or five places in which they 
would like to live prior to get­
ting up to the table. This would 
make the line go much faster. If 
the first choice was not avail­
able the student could move on 
to the second room choice with­
out delay. One person stalling 
may not seem to make a differ­
ence, but when compounded 
with 800 or more students, it 
can put the schedule back for 
hours.
Students could also help by 
attending the two to four ques­
tion and answer sessions held 
by Housing each year. These 
sessions, although advertised, 
are always poorly attended. Any 
specific questions can be an­
swered there about room 
choices, rules about stand-ins if 
students have classes, and ex­
actly how the room draw pro­
cess works. We believe that by 
taking these ideas into consid­
eration and by everyone’s coop­
eration, the room draw process 
could be a much less stressful 
time for students and Housing 
alike.
Eric J. Salzman
contact with their professors. They can receive instructions, 
hand in papers, and get comments without ever knowing what 
their professor looks like. Is this any different from the illus­
trious education one can receive by calling an 800 number that 
“appears on your screen at the end of this commercial”?
I am not saying that we have to thwart technological ad­
vancement in orderto maintain our educational system. How­
ever, I am warning you of what could happen. With theWe’ve all seen the commercials on television where you can 
“Earn your degree through the mail!” Through a series of technology available, this university could easily, become an 
cassettes, videotapes, and mailed-in tests, anyone can get a even more impersonal place than it already is. 
degree in accounting, management, computer programming, Students have to beware oftheir classes becoming television
and other fine areas of career 
interest.
Is there one of us here at 
the college level who doesn’t 
laugh at these commercials?
There probably is, because 
some guy’s mother got her 
degree through one of these 
places. If I offendedyou, good.
The fact is, hardly anyone 
has any respect for a degree 
earned through the mail or 
by watching a bunch of tapes.
Unfortunately, Carnegie Mellon, like many other universi­
ties, is leaning towards the direction of these programs.
Carnegie Mellon is not as bad as some of the schools in this 
country when it comes to technology replacing personal 
instruction. At some universities, a professor may lecture in 
one room with students in five other rooms watching him on 
television screens. While this system, applicable mostly to 
some larger universities, is not in effect at Carnegie Mellon, 
our school is certainly not guilt-free.
Self-paced courses are this school’s leaders towards an
B5 C oea5TiiaePi ST•MgeT ri eTSC9Tt 
Ma C 5T2 eaaki 2rMl MTSTcrira» 
i•eTT»iI 2lCMPi Ma iMao 3A1 5eak 
eT•aetr»N MlT ST•MgeTiW Yea5TiH
iaei DgiM kC9 nT•akT aniaSTMT4
shows. Efficiency is not a re­
placement for quality. Stu­
dents put enough money into 
this school to deserve a qual­
ity education.
Students who supposedly 
pay for an education, as well 
as for a piece of paper that 
says they have one, should 
not be afraid to ask questions 
about the six television moni- 
tors in Doherty 2210. Maybe 
those monitors are there in 
case the professor wants to show a video. On the other hand, 
they could be there in preparation for closed-circuit lecture 
broadcasts.
The future holds unlimited possibilities for communications 
technology. AT&T promises us that we’ll be able to turn on our 
television set at home to get the day’s history lecture. However, 
do students want this? I would argue that they do not.
Perhaps even the faculty has to worry a little bit. If a 
professor’s lecture is relayed to a few rooms with television 
screens, what is to stop Carnegie Mellon from recording the 
education that can be achieved through the mail. With a self lectures to play in the future? With a few years’ worth of
paced course, students often meet with the professor once or 
twice a semester. Their education is offered through tapes 
and readings. What student needs to pay over $20,000 a year 
for classes that provide a list of tapes and books to buy?
Thanks to email, some students never have to come into
lectures on videotape, professors just may become obsolete.
Eric J. Salzman is a freshman inH&SS who just may major 
in philosophy. He is currently studying Australian plumbing 
through international mail catalogs.
Congress cuts valuable projects
Ronak Singhal
Last summer, a Democrat- 
controlled Congress decided 
where to make deep budget 
cuts. What resulted was a 
deep cut in projects that ap­
peared to be beneficial to the 
technological and scientific 
progress of this nation —
projects such as the 
supercollider in Texas and a 
large space station. The kill­
ing of the Texas supercollider, 
along with deep cuts in mili­
tary spending and a scaling 
down of the space station, will 
hinder America’s efforts to con­
tinue to be a discoverer of great 
technologies.
Many people argue that 
projects like the Texas 
supercollider are exorbitant 
uses of public money that
would be better spent on more 
humanitarian efforts. They 
say that industry and educa­
tional institutions already con­
duct enough research to help 
our country and that the pur­
pose of our government is to 
help the people directly — 
through programs that give 
money to people instead of 
large research projects.
The fact is, though, that gov- 
ernment help in research 
projects of this kind is one of
the best forms of support that
the government can provide. 
Not only do these projects cre­
ate jobs; they also provide 
invaluable knowledge about 
subjects that will eventually 
improve the lifestyle of most 
Americans.
Congress didn’t just cut re­
search projects, however. B 
also made deep cuts in mili­
tary spending. Many people 
argued for these cuts, citing 
Please see CUTS, page 5

---------------------------------------------------

The Tartan • Carnegie Mellon • 21 March 19945
Vegetarians choose humane lifestyle
/W <U>
Matt Ball
With the beginning of spring comes the 
great American Meatout. While most 
)le do hot give a second thought to 
¡onsuming other animals, the degrada­
tion camivory causes to the environment 
jnd our health makes it difficult to under­
hand how rational people can decide to 
continue eating as they do.
Many people erroneously believe that 
animal products are necessary for good 
health. This misconception has been pro­
moted by the meat and dairy industries, 
which developed the “four food groups,” 
the U.S. government, which spends 
lens of billions of tax dollars subsidizing 
animal agriculture and promoting animal 
products through the beef and dairy boards. 
These groups distribute most of the nutri­
tional information in the United States.
Unbiased research has consistently 
proven that, in the words of Michael Klaper, 
M.D., “Your body has absolutely no nutri­
tional requirement for the flesh or milk of 
animals.” All of our nutritional require­
ments can be obtained from non-animal 
sources. Most diseases in Western societ­
ies are diseases of excess rather than of 
deficiency. According to the American Di­
etetic Association, people who do not eat 
meat have a lower risk of heart disease, 
stroke, colon cancer, osteoporosis, diabe­
tes mellitus, obesity, kidney stones, gall­
stones, hypertension, and possibly breast
cancer.
Over half of all antibiotics used in this 
country are fed to livestock, a practice 
banned in the 1970s by the European 
Economic Community because it leads 
to more drug-resistant strains of micro­
organisms. Bacterial con­
tamination of meat and 
other animal products has 
often caused illness and 
death in people.
Most people are concerned 
about the environment but 
do not realize the damage 
an animal-based diet cre- 
•ates. In order for people to 
eat meat, eggs, or dairy 
products, livestock must be 
fed and housed and their 
products refrigerated, 
which requires a tremen­
dous amount of resources.
According to animal scien­
tists at Ohio State Univer­
sity, only about 35 percent 
of the fossil fuel energy in­
vested in the most efficient 
“food” animal is returned as 
available caloric energy; the 
least efficient plant crop re­
turns 328 percent.
Approximately 90 percent 
of oats, 85 percent of com, 
and 80 percent of soybeans 
grown in this country are fed to live­
stock. According to the President’s Sci­
ence Advisory Committee, 15 people can 
be fed a vegetarian diet on the amount of 
land needed to produce a meat-centered 
diet for one person. The intensive farm­
ing and grazing required to fatten billions of sources. Millions of acres of formerly 
animals a year for slaughter have led to the productive and diverse tropical rain for- 
erosion of much of this country’s original est have been cleared and are now used 
topsoil. to graze livestock; the consequences of
To produce an animal-based diet requires this destruction are not yet known. Cows 
one-third of all the raw materials and over and cattle are the largest anthropogenic
source of methane emissions, 
which is many times more 
potent than carbon dioxide 
in causing global warming.
Some people ask what 
there is to eat besides ani­
mals, overlooking all the pos­
sible dishes of grains, pas­
tas, breads, potatoes, cere­
als, beans, rice, fruits, and 
vegetables. Many cultures, 
including those of India, the 
Middle East, Mexico, and 
Asia provide a great variety 
of foods for vegetarians.
Most people would be hor­
rified at the prospect of kill­
ing and consuming the corpse 
of their pet or another ani­
mal they had come to know. 
Yet these same people pay 
someone to slaughter anony­
mous animals who are no 
less alive, aware, and able to 
experience pain and suffer­
ing. Having the capacity for 
rational and moral thought, 
how can anyone continue to 
take part in the murder of another ani­
mal merely to satisfy a hunger for flesh?
Gabrien Symons/Tartan Artist
half of the water consumed in the U.S.; a 
total vegetarian can be fed using less than 
10 percent of the water it takes to feed a 
meat-eater. Waste products from animal 
agriculture create three times more organic
water pollution than all other industrial for over four years.
Matt Ball, a PhD student in engineer­
ing and public policy, has been a vegan
Shortsighted budget cuts limit future prospects
CUTS, from page 4
the end of the Cold War as a 
justification, without realizing 
what the side effects of such cut­
backs would be. These cuts will 
have a detrimental effect on 
many research efforts being con­
ducted in this country. Congress 
did not consider the importance 
of military research to our na­
tional economy and technologi­
cal level when it decided to make 
the budget cuts.
The military has long been a 
source of incredible research and 
development that has provided 
discoveries that have led to nu­
merous practical ideas, such as 
nuclear power. Budget cuts in 
the military, specifically in ar­
eas of research, hurt this coun­
try by eliminating jobs that not 
only help provide for the com­
mon national defense but also 
eventually help to improve the 
lifestyle of Americans.
One of the reasons that it is 
necessary to get the government 
involved in projects like the space
station and the supercollider is 
the sheer size of these projects. 
Each required more money and 
resources that any one company 
could handle. In fact, the one 
institution in the whole world 
that could currently help finance
efficiency that have cost taxpay­
ers millions of dollars. But should 
these stories be enough to put an 
end to these projects?
I don’t believe that eliminat­
ing these important projects is 
the answer to Congress’ budget-
By killing the supercollider altogether 
and severely cutting the plans for the 
space station, Congress has done 
America a great disservice.
such projects would be the 
American government. Without 
its help, these projects would 
never have had the opportunity 
to materialize.
However, there is understand­
able reluctance to involve our 
government in such projects be­
cause of their noted inefficiency. 
In both of the projects mentioned, 
there have been many docu­
mented stories of waste and in-
ing problems. It is necessary that 
some type of streamlining be done 
and that government-handled op­
erations be made more efficient, 
but by killing the supercollider 
altogether and severely cutting 
the plans for the space station, 
Congress has done America a 
great disservice. These projects 
were aimed at helping the next 
generation of scientists and pro­
viding research facilities unlike
any of those ever seen before on 
Earth, or off Earth for that mat­
ter.
In previous years, the space 
program has led to many discov­
eries that have eventually be­
come important in industry. As
---------- scientists wish to know
more, they must also 
have the opportunity to 
conduct tests under cer­
tain parameters. These 
parameters sometimes 
cannot be met by the 
normal laboratory, yet 
Congress has severely 
dashed many scientists’ 
hopes of conducting space ex­
periments. Many other re­
searchers have faced the disap­
pointment of not being able to 
use the supercollider for a whole 
new battery of tests — possibly 
unlike ones ever seen before.
One of the reasons America 
became a great nation is the 
innovation of its people. America 
has always been at the forefront 
of technology, and Amercians
have often been the first to dis­
cover new innovations. As tech­
nology has grown more ad­
vanced and the needs of scien­
tists have grown, it has become 
increasingly necessary for cer­
tain advanced facilities to be 
built to be used for scientific 
testing.
These facilities may be ex­
tremely expensive, yet in the 
long run they would have pro­
vided America with a clear ad­
vantage: many great technologi­
cal discoveries.
However, Congress has se­
verely hindered our progress by 
cutting back on these projects 
and making deep cuts in mili­
tary research spending. Maybe 
we will never see what great 
discoveries could have been 
made to help us and strengthen 
us technologically because ofthe 
short-sighted nature of our cur­
rent government.
Ronak Singhal is a freshman 
in CIT.
Carnegie Mellon’s limited 
number of parking spaces 
and high parking fees cause 
headaches for students, fac­
ulty, and staff alike. With 
^he Skibo lot’s destruction 
looming ahead, the situation 
could become even worse. We 
asked students: What mea­
sures do you suggest for 
improving the parking 
siutation on campus?
Tracy Perneta 
Senior
Creative Writing
“We definitely need more 
parking for students. They 
should give out more permits, 
limit the number of students 
who can have cars, or find more 
parking somewhere.”
David Mickelson
Junior
ECE
“Build another parking facil­
ity.”
Saratu Mohammed
Freshman
Civil Engineering
“In general, in Oakland, park­
ing is scarce. Other than mak­
ing another parking garage, 
there’s not much you can do 
about it.”
Kevin Chen/Tartan Photographer
Jennifer Cheuk
Freshman
Architecture
“Build another parking ga­
rage. We could buy Schenley 
Park, but I don’t think that’s a 
solution.”
Forum is always looking for bright, intelligent, interesting, and creative writers to 
contribute to the section. If you are interested, please contact Abby Schiff at 8x2111.
THE TARTAN
Carnegie Mellon's Student Newspaper 
Since 1906
Editor-in-chief.........Andrew Sproule
Managing Ed.......Samuel Greenfield
Business Mgr..............Lauren Heinz
News Editor.................Jason Togyer
Forum Editor..................Abby Schiff
Sports Editor..................Eric Strauss
Acting Features Ed. ..Frank Michels 
Diversions Co-Editors ....John Biggs 
Tara Zane
Calendar Editor........Brockett Horne
Dossier Literary Co-Eds. Aimee Beal 
Germain E. DeSeve VIII 
Dossier Dsgn. Ed. .R. J. McGinness
Art Co-Editors...............Mark Eggert
Ramsey Hong
Photo Editor:.....................Jim Snyder
Production Mgr............Katie Swango
Copy Manager..............Eileen O’Shea
Systems Mgr............Chad McDaniel
Asst. News Editor........Eric Salzman
Asst. Forum Ed..............Kris Hinrichs
Asst. Sports Co-Eds.........Anuj Gupta
Carolyn Skarada
Asst. Features Ed...........Tonya Rado
Asst. Diversions Ed. Karen Griinberg 
Asst. Production Mgr. Derek Wahila
Photo Staff Manager......David Perry
Darkroom Manager ....Jennifer Urso
Contributing Editors 
Keegan Folk, Laura McClure, 
Brendan McFeely, Tina L. Urso, 
Kathleen Wright
Senior Staff 
Tony deFigio, David Hunt, Micki 
Kochanskyj, Janice McClure, Declan 
McCullagh
Staffwriters 
Matt Adler, Jason Andracki, Matt 
Ball, Jennifer Barkin, Kymberly M. 
Bartlo, David Bazelon, Allan Bourdius, 
Mahua Dutta, Jessica Fang, Andi 
Francioni, Shannon Gibney, Dan 
Goldwasser, Tom Harper, Edward 
Hayes, Jason Heinlein, Justin Lam, 
Matthew Messner, Jesse Nice, 
Ronak Singhal, Jason Specland, 
Rhonda Struminger, Bethany Sutton, 
Jennifer Turner, Mike Walker, John 
Weber
Art
Gabrien Symons
Comics
Jeffe Boates, Justin Carroll, Nick 
Casclato Jr., Matt Goldberg, Mark 
Kantrowitz, Dexter Kobayashi, David 
White
Photo
Vineet Agarwal, Kevin Chen, Bassem 
El-Dasher, Andrew Flores, Andrew 
McDermott, Pat Prasangsit, Jim 
Snyder, Maria Valenti
Darkroom 
Jon Confer, Daniel Frey, Tom Gilbert, 
Margaret Stallings
Production 
Becky Elroy, Ken Kraemer, Jason 
Ma, Carrie McDonough, Elizabeth 
Neuman, Eric Pettus, Jenna 
Sweterlitsch, Ron Yang
Copy
Roshni Bhakta, Jennifer Forbes, 
Madhav Ghanta, D. Renee Hairston, 
Yerin Kay, Lisa Kruglak, Ed Slavishak, 
Elizabeth Zambelli
Business 
Christa Bower, Chintan Shah
Junior Staff 
Jin Bae, Robert Brunskill, Chandra 
Buist, Mimi Cheng, Kristen Connell, 
Seth A. Covitz, Amy Haupl, Ron Kurti, 
Kathy Liu, Angela Molloy, Buck Neel, 
Chin Oh, Becca Stallings, Daniella 
Topol, Vivien Weiss, Brian Young, 
Lenny Young
The Tartan is the student newspaper of Carnegie 
Mellon University. It is a weekly newspaper pub­
lished by students during the fall and spring semes­
ters, at no cost to members of the University 
community. It is printed by Western Pennsylvania 
Printing, Inc. Subscriptions are available for the 
semester or academic year. The editorials appear­
ing at the beginning of the opinion section are the 
official opinion of The Tartan editorial board. Col­
umns and political cartoons are the opinions of 
Individual creators. The Tartan reserves the right to 
reject or condense any column or political cartoon. 
Letters to the Editor are opinions of authors who 
are usually, but not necessarily, members of tho 
University community. A letter Intended for publica­
tion must be signed and Include the writer's address 
and phone number for verification. Names will be 
withheld upon request. Tho Tartan requests that 
letters be no longer than 500 words. The Tartan 
reserves the right to condense or reject any, letter. 
Copyright © 1993 by Tho Tartan. Tho Tartan edito­
rial board reserves the right to withhold from publi­
cation any copy it deems unfit for publication. 
Office: Skibo 50 (412) 268-2111 
Mailing address: TheTartan/Box 17/Carnegie Mel­
lon University/Pittsburgh. PA 15213-3890 
Funded in part by your Activities Fee.
All rights reserved.
Library of Congress ISSN #: 0890-3107.

---------------------------------------------------

Want to declare yourself 
an English Major?
Come to our information 
session!
Wednesday, March 23 
4:30 — 6:00 pm 
Baker Hall 355
• DEPARTMENT OVERVIEW
• INFORMATION ON DIFFERENT MAJORS
Creative Writing 
Literary & Cultural Studies 
Professional Writing 
Technical Writing 
Rhetoric
• ANSWERS TO ALL YOUR QUESTIONS
If you would like to attend, please RSVP the English Department (8-2850) 
or e-mail Amy Hallas Wells, the Undergraduate Secretary (ah!8)
adonis
<ï> m FO <i) Ui R ir UM Ga br
Highly paid, Indentured 
Programmers Wanted
Adonis Corporation is looking for the very best 
programmers to design and implement several new 
MS Windows, UNIX, and Macintosh’applications. We 
are a small, rapidly growing software firm specializing 
in development of telecommunication software for 
windowed operating environments. We depend on 
very intelligent, highly motivated individuals for our 
success. If you have a first class analytical inind, 
really enjoy programming and application develop­
ment, and possess the capacity to interact well with 
management and clients, then we offer an extraordi­
nary professional and financial opportunity
Successful candidates will he recognized as 
extremely bright, with a strong creative and/or 
analytical bent. They should enjoy a full range of 
system development activities, including design and 
programming, and they will take great pride in seeing 
their systems through to implementation.
Beware. The CEO and founder is a CMU 
alumnus. Ours is an extremely intense, eclectic, and 
competitive work environment. We expect total and 
absolute commitment to project success — overcom­
ing all obstacles to create the applications 011 time and 
under budget. The skills, intellect and personality we
seek are rare and our compensation plan reflects that 
fact. If you are right for us, you should be prepared 
for this intensity and be prepared to earn a lot of 
money for your Herculean efforts. We offer competi- ¦ 
live salaries, time and a half for overtime, incentives 
on project completion, and equity participation. It is 
possible within our work environment for an entry 
level engineer to earn $60,000 or more per year.
It is also a fun work environment with stability 
and camaraderie. As you will see, our unique business 
environment produces results. We have achieved 
300% revenue growth in five of our six years in 
business. We now have 50+ employees and a capital 
base exceeding $2 million.
In addition to great programmers, we 
seek similarly intense graphic artists, project 
managers and technical writers.
We will be at CMU March 21st and 22nd. On the 
21st, we will make a presentation at 4:30pm, in 
Adamspn Auditorium, Room 136A, BakerHall. On 
the 22nd, we will be conducting interviews. If 
interested, please submit your resume to the Career 
Center or send your resume to:
Human Resources
Adonis Corporation/Connect Software 
6742 185th Ave NE, Suite 150 
Redmond, WA 98052 
FAX (206) 869-0252
Attention CMU!
‘Pro ‘Bartending
Campus Bartending is now offering another course on campus. 
Comparable courses cost $395 to $695. Pro Bartending, our 
professional mixology course, is now being offered for only $225. 
In our two years, we have placed 100% of our graduates who wanted 
employment. So hurry! Class space is very limited.
Pro Bartending is the professional level course which 
offers:
*20 hours of instruction over four weekends 
?professional bartending knowledge and skills including 
bar management, inventory, cashiering, etc.
?many recipes - not just drinks but also flavored 
vodka, coffee liqueur (like Kahlua), etc.
?an extensive presentation on wines 
and champagnes by a guest speaker 
?skills in dealing with bar situations 
?alcohol awamess (option to get TIPPS certified)
?an extensive Pro Bartending course 
book and a box of over 200 recipes 
?certification upon successful 
completion of the course 
?how to land a job and much, much more!
ampus
CM 3A1
artending
* Earn big bucks 
(bartenders average over 
$100/night in tips alone)
* Be the life of the party
* Learn from experienced pros
Class schedule:
April 9,-10,17,23,24,30
Saturdays, Sundays 
12:00-3:00 PM
yVi? 'Rp.riwdrrig.Location:
On CMU Campus! 
Scotland Yard, Skibo
(Note : location not affiliated with 
Campus Bartending)
* Minimum age to bartend in PA is 18
* No real alcohol is used for instruction
For info, call now:747-8185(or email bpl9@andrew)
2Th eartn•a 
CgirMal Cgon»
International destinations 
Discounted domestic fares 
AYH & Eurail Passes
FORUM
TRAVEL
Experienced, friendly service.
4608 Winthrop St.
(off S. Craig in Oakland)
Mon. - Fri. 9-5 pm 
Sat. 10-1 pm 
1gMM c943GSII A
Federation for WorM P¡eace
Presents
“True Parents and the 
Complete Testament Age”
7 pm Sunday, March 27 
Holiday Inn, Oakland, PA 
Doors open 6:15 pm, seated by 6:45 pm
Bring this ad for Door Prizes
Name______________________
Phone______________________
$50, $30, $20
Call 241-6183 for info.
BOTTLECAPS + SEAT BELT CLASPS + INNER TUBE TIRE =THE CREEN BELT
BOTTLE CAPSINNERTUBETIRE
SEAT BELT CLASPS
NOW YOU CAN HAVE FASHION AND FUNCTION WITH A CONSCIENCE IN A PRICE RANGE THAT EVEN LEONA WOULD JUMP AT; INTRODUCING,
THECREEN BELT
BY BANKS & BLAND
TO ORDER CALL 1-800-2-EC0L0CY
326465
OR SEND CHECK OR MONEY ORDER
TO: THE CREEN BELT 
P.O. BOX #10207 
PITTSBURGH, PA 15232
BE SURE TO INDICATE SIZE
XS SM M L XL XXL 
( ) ( ) ( ) ( ) ( ) ( ) 
PRICE POSTAGE
+
QUANTITYTOTAL PRICE
X $19.98$2.50
Campus Bartending is brought in part by the University Entrepreneurial Association
682-7272
CALL US FOR LARGE ORDERS FOR YOUR GROUP OR ORGANIZATION. WE CAN HANDLE 
ANY SIZE ORDER AND DELIVER IT TO YOUR MEETING PLACE. ORDER FOUR OR MORE 
LARGE ONE TOPPING PIZZAS AND GET THEM FOR ONLY $5.00 EACH PLUS TAX.

---------------------------------------------------

SPORTS
Swimmers earn All-America status
Team finishes 21st, pair of sophs each have two top-10 finishes
By ERIC STRAUSS
Tartan Sports Editor
Carnegie Mellon’s men’s swim team 
sent two representatives to the NCAA 
Division III Men’s Swim Meet this week­
end and came away with two dual All- 
Americans. Sophomores Geoff Waller 
and Matt Moe, competing in their first 
national meet, each earned two All- 
America awards at the meet held at 
Williams College in Williamstown, Mass.
Waller finished fifth in two events, the 
400-yard individual medley (I.M.) and 
the 200-yard butterfly. He finished the
I.M. in 4:09.2, but his preliminary time 
of 4:07.6 set a new school record. His 
1:33.77 time in the butterfly also set a 
school record.
“I wasn’t disappointed at all with what 
I did,” Waller said. “I was really happy I
made the top eight at all for my two 
events. I was happy with both perfor­
mances.”
Moe finished fourth in the 400-yard
I.M., with a time of 4:08.2, and finished 
10th in the 200-yard breaststroke in 
2:09.40.
The two swimmers also competed in 
the 200-yard I.M. Waller finished 24th 
with a time of 1:58.1 and Moe finished 
30th with a time of 1:58.8.
“I was very happy with how I swam. I 
swam exactly how I wanted to,” Moe 
said. “A lot of people came to the meet 
and crashed and burned because they 
weren’t prepared, but our coach was a 
lot of help with us that way.”
“They did great for being at the meet 
for the first time,” swim coach Jim 
Cutrone said. “They did exceptional. It’s 
very tough to go to the meet for the first
time and finish in the top eight — but 
they did.”
The two swimmers’ fine performances 
propelled the Tartans to a 21st place 
finish out of 68 teams, a remarkable 
performance, considering only two men 
swam for CMU. Kenyon College won the 
meet, the University of California at 
San Diego finished second, and UAA 
rival Johns Hopkins finished third. The 
other UAA teams participating, Emory 
and Case Western, finished in the 30s, 
according to Cutrone.
“We had a super meet,” said Cutrone. 
“For just two people, we scored a lot of 
points.”
“The big thing for the two of us —just 
me and Matt — together got 21st, and 
that’s pretty good,” Waller said. “With 
two or three more people qualifying we 
could have gotten top 10, because 10th
place got 104 points and we got 50 points. 
We have some real good recruits coming 
in next year [who can help the team 
improve].”
Moe agreed, saying, “It was real in­
credible for both of us to score how we 
did. Only one other team had less people 
and scored more points than we did.” 
The highest CMU has ever finished at 
the men’s meet was 12th overall, when 
they sent five representatives to the 
meet two years ago.
Cutrone had a lot of praise for his two 
swimmers, the anchors of his team dur­
ing the dual meet season.
“They were great. They just missed 
nationals last year, and they put in the 
work this year,” he said. “It paid off — 
they capped a great season with a great 
performance [at nationals.]”
Moe said that he and Waller are hop­
ing to improve next year, along with the 
team.
“We’re looking to move up every year, 
and hoping to get more people” to na­
tionals, he said. “We’d like to get a relay 
there, and get into the top 10.
“If we had two more people go there 
and swim exactly how we did, we could 
finish 12th, and with a relay there, that 
could put us in the top 10. We’re defi­
nitely looking to get into the top 10 soon. 
We’ve got good recruiting and a number 
of people on the team this year are hop­
ing to make the national team next 
year — keep up the good improvement.”
Moe also said the group of teammates 
and die-hard fans who traveled with the 
team was a big help.
“It was great to have a group of fans 
watching,” he said. “It really helped us 
to have them there cheering.”
First week leaves 16 teams feeling sweet
Profs afflicted 
with Madness
Chicks on the Ball
by Sharon Dilworth 
& Keya Ganguly
[Ed. note: Welcome to Chicks on 
The Ball. What do you get when 
you combine a literary and cul­
tural studies professor and a cre­
ative writing professor (who hails 
from Motown)? This column. It 
will run the length of the NCAA 
tournament. We realize that this 
genre of sports analysis may not 
be what you expect; however, we 
think that after a few nights chan­
nel surfing and ball-watching, you 
will realize that ESPN has been 
doing it wrong all these years. Sit 
back, grab your dictionary, and 
enjoy.]
As the car commercial says, this 
is going to be deep. Or, to put it a 
bit differently, it’s that time of the 
year again: Dance. The big one. 
No, not the cotillion, just the 
NCAA basketball tourney. So, if 
you’re a debutante, go wash your 
hair or something. This is a ques­
tion for the congnoscenti: what 
would it be without the Big Blow 
(sorry, Big Blue)? A field of 64 
minus the Fab Four (sounds like 
commodified attrition to one chick, 
re-consolidation to the other). A 
Michigan Loss? Michigan not in 
the tournament? One chick isn’t 
happy; the other’s enthusiasm for 
Pepperdine is tempered — ’cuz 
good guys never win (at least, not 
in the most important games in 
life).
Meanwhile, Pepperdine’s play­
ing it close in overtime with the 
guys in the long canary skirts. Is 
this what we have to look forward 
to as the emergent signifier of 
youthful masculinity?
On the other side of the gender 
divide, we’re shown the exemplary 
sign of feminine anxiety — the 
opposing coaches’ wives. Why? Is 
it because they care about the 
game? We don’t think so. They 
probably don’t want to have to 
deal with frustrated, hoarse, and 
castrated (at least discursively) 
spouses — otherwise known as 
the losing coaches. Not, mind you, 
that Mrs. Fisher (what a bliss­
fully appropriate name for the 
wife of a Midwestern, all-Ameri- 
can, apple-pie kind of coach) has 
had to deal with tournament ad- 
Please see CHICKS, page 8
ì niiKFH85-741994 NCAA TOURNAMENT
Ron Kurti/Tartan Art Staff & Derek Wahila/Tartan Assistant Production Manager
Major upsets abound as defending champion North Carolina exits early
In Your Face
by Seth A. Covitz
College basketball, the NCAA Tour­
nament, how sweet it is. What could be 
sweeter than the first and second rounds 
in this year’s tournament? The 64-team 
field has been reduced to 16. The year 
has been generous with upsets, and de­
spite this people still say that come tour­
nament time, the experienced teams will 
prevail. Well, they haven’t and there is 
nothing to say about it. In this year’s 
NCAA tournament, anything goes. It is 
an open field, and the championship is 
certainly up for grabs. Let’s not talk 
about teams that everyone expected to 
go far, specifically North Carolina, Cali­
fornia, UCLA, Massachusetts, Kentucky 
and Temple, all of which bowed out in 
the first two rounds. Instead let’s talk 
about the surprises that have made my 
tournament brackets serve better as a 
bowling score sheet.
How about those Maryland Terrapins, 
escaping the bubble to make their first 
NCAA appearance since the Len Bias 
era. Seeded 10th, the Terrapins are led 
by three freshmen and two sophomore 
starters. Specifically, the go to guy for 
Maryland is none other than freshman 
sensation, Joe Smith. He led the nation’s 
freshmen in both points and rebounds 
and enjoyed mass publicity in Sports 
Illustrated, USA Today, and on CBS 
Sports for his ordinary name and 
unordinary play. With help from coach 
Gary Williams, the Terrapins knocked 
off Saint Louis, and Massachusetts. 
Maryland uses their youthful energy to 
tire opponents and continuously attack 
the boards. The next opponent for Mary­
land, will be the Fab Four of Michigan, 
the original freshmen sensations and 
super sophomores. Michigan has had a 
rocky road avoiding an upset overtime
scare by the Pepperdine Blue Waves 
and Texas Longhorns.
Let’s talk about the Boston College 
Eagles reservingtheir ticket to the sweet 
16 by way of knocking out the defending 
champion North Carolina Tarheels. The 
Eagles achieved by ignoring the critics 
and by letting their game do the talking 
for them. The Eagles are led by an all­
senior starting cast that has not been to 
the round of 16 in their last three years. 
Center Bill Curley said before the Caro­
lina game, that they would ignore his­
tory and go out and concentrate on one 
game only. It sounds simple, but in the 
single elimination NCAA tournament 
each game could be your last. Carolina 
had plenty of stars, plenty of depth, 
incredible talent, a prestigious coach, 
but Boston College didn’t seem to notice. 
Since their play on the court did the 
talking for them, what did it say? It said 
that the Big East is back.
Which conferences aren’t for real? How 
about the PAC-10 (2-3 in the tourney) 
with only Arizona remaining, the Great 
Midwest (2-3) with only Marquette re­
maining, and the Atlantic-10 (3-3) with
no teams remaining. The rest of the 
conferences represented in the sweet 16 
include the ACC (6-3) with Duke and 
Virginia remaining, the Big East (7-3) 
with Connecticut, Syracuse, and Boston 
College remaining, the Big Eight (6-1) 
with Missouri, Kansas, and Oklahoma 
State remaining, the Big-10 (10-3) with 
Purdue, Indiana, Michigan, and Minne­
sota remaining, and the SEC (6-2), with 
Florida and Arkansas remaining.
My final thoughts for this week are 
simply that any team with the desire 
and will can win this year’s tournament. 
North Carolina A&T, Hawaii, Tennes­
see State, Rider, and College of Charles­
ton all had leads in the second halves of 
their respective games. Wisconsin-Green 
Bay, Maryland, Marquette, and Boston 
College kept those leads and advanced. 
All you have to do to win is keep the 
game close and hope to hold a small lead 
in the last couple of minutes. My new 
“Upset stomach” picks are Duke, Boston 
College, Louisville, and Maryland.
Seth A. Covitz is a sophomore com­
puter science major.

---------------------------------------------------

8The Tartan • Carnegie Mellon • 21 March 1994
'Barring major injury,’ Reds will reign in Central
The Suicide Squeeze
by Anuj Gupta
When a decision was made lastyear as 
to where teams would be placed in the 
newly aligned divisions, a sigh of relief 
could be heard from Cincinnati and Hous­
ton. Finally, that gargantuan of base­
ball teams, the Atlanta Braves, was out 
of their division. Little did they realize 
that they would be teamed up with the 
St. Louis Cardinals, the Chicago Cubs, 
and the ’Burgh’s beloved Bucs, to form 
what will be the most competitive divi­
sion in baseball — yes, even more com­
petitive than the American League East. 
So as baseball stands just two weeks 
from opening day, these five teams pre­
pare for what could be one of the most 
heated pennant races of all time. Here’s 
a preview of what’s coming your way.
Chicago Cubs: If you could read the 
mind of the legendary Harry Carey right 
now, you would probably hear him think, 
“Holy Cow, will I live to see another 
Cubs’ team win a title?”
Sorry, Harry; it won’t happen this year. 
The Cubs’ play has been a consistent 
exercise in futility over the past decade 
and a half. With all the money and fan 
base that they possess, poor manage­
ment has gotten the team only two divi­
sion titles and several years of mediocre 
baseball. The two biggest mistakes were 
the firing of manager Don Zimmer and 
the hiring of General Manager Larry 
Himes.
The mistakes could be rectified if the 
Cubs take advantage of what could be 
the best offense in the National League. 
The Cubs’ lineup features Ryne 
Sandberg, Mark Grace, Rick Wilkins, 
Sammy Sosa, Steve Buechele, Karl 
“Tuffy” Rhodes, and Glenallen Hill, who 
can or have hit 15 or more home runs 
with averages over .250. With the re­
turn of health to former all-star Shawon 
Dunston, this lineup translates to in­
stant offense.
The problem is that offense is only half 
the game; thus, when it comes to the 
other half, pitching, the Cubs just don’t 
balance. Although the Cubs have sev­
eral quality arms in Mike Morgan, Jose 
Guzman, and newcomers Willie Banks 
and Steve Traschel, none have the tal­
ent to be, realistically, more than a num­
ber-three starter. Last 
year, none of them had an 
earned run average lower 
than* 3.50. Randy Myers, 
with his 53 saves lastyear, 
is the lone bright spot on 
this staff.
The Cubs could poten­
tially win a lot of games 
this year, but it will take a 
lot of runs scored to make 
up for their lack of pitch­
ing.
Cincinnati Reds: Last 
year I said, “barring ma­
jor injury, the Reds will 
win the division.” Well, 
losing four of the five start­
ing pitchers to injury and 
having the opening day 
lineup together for only 
four games did not further 
my cause.
For 1994, I will say it 
again: barring major in­
jury, the Reds will win the 
division.
This team is so stacked 
that one could make a case 
for an all-star bid at every position ex­
cept catcher, where the solid Joe Oliver 
still gets the job done. Hal Morris, Bret 
Boone, Barry Larkin, Tony Fernandez, 
Reggie Sanders, Roberto Kelly, and 
Kevin Mitchell round out the best over­
all offense in the N.L. Taken position by 
position, it is even better than the Braves’ 
stacked lineup.That goes without even 
mentioning the supporting cast of veter­
ans such as Lenny Harris and Jerome 
Walton.
Add that to a pitching staff which 
features starters John Smiley, Jose Rijo, 
Tom Browning, and Erik Hanson who
have all won 15 games or more at least 
once in their career. Combine them with 
closer Rob Dibble, a year removed from 
being the most feared pitcher in the 
leagues, and the Reds are definitely the 
team to beat.
The question remains, “will the Reds 
manage to beat themselves?” So far, 
they have had a quiet and productive 
spring training, and even the moody 
Kevin Mitchell looks like he wants to
play baseball again. The Reds have one 
of the best managers in the game in 
Davey Johnson, and if he can’t get the 
job done, long-time player and one-time 
caddy Ray Knight is waitingin the wings. 
As long as the Reds stay healthy, how­
ever, this will be Johnson’s team from 
April 4 till sometime in late October.
Houston Astros: “Why ruin a good 
thing?” is a question I have been asking 
lately when it comes to the Houston 
Astros. After three years of continued 
improvement, the Astros were coming 
into this year as a serious contender in 
the new N.L. Central.
Nevertheless, new owner Drayton 
McClain fired both General Manager 
Bill Wood and manager Art Howe, two of 
the more respected names in baseball.
Now the Astros seem to be in a transi­
tion period under new manager Terry 
Collins, for though they may have the 
talent to win, lack of continuity may 
come back to haunt them.
Though young, the Astros’ lineup is 
among the elite in the N.L. with produc­
tion coming from all sides, 
especially Jeff Bagwell, 
Craig Biggio, Luis Gon­
zalez, Andujar Cedeno, 
and Steve Finley.
The scary thought is 
that players in the wings 
such as James Mouton, 
Brian Hunter, Roberto 
Pentagine, and former 
first-round pick Phil Nevin 
all possess more talent 
than anyone in the lineup, 
and are all just a year from 
making it to the bigs.
Though the loss of Mark 
Portugal hurts, the Astros’ 
pitching staff still stands 
strong with Doug Drabek, 
Pete Harnisch, Greg 
Swindell, and Daryl Kile 
and stands second to only 
that of the Braves. With 
youngsters Domingo Jean, 
John Hudek, Brian Will­
iams, and Mike Hampton, 
the Astros are also easily 
able to round out the rota­
tion and the rest of the 
bullpen, which now rests in the hands of 
“the Wild Thing,” Mitch Williams.
There is no doubt that the Astros have 
the talent to stay with the Reds. Can 
Collins instill respect and a winning 
attitude in less than a year? Can Mitch 
Williams rebound from his fade away 
last September and into the postseason?
If so, look for this race to go down to the 
wire. If not, the Astros may realize that 
their time — along with sure-fire stars 
like Mouon and Nevin — is still a year 
away.
Pittsburgh Pirates: The Pirates’ 
story over the past several years has
Justin Carroll/Tartan Art Staff
been one of sorrow and disbelief. After 
winning three straight division titles 
and coming one strike from going to a 
World Series, Bucs’ fans were left with 
little more than a triple A team last 
year, as the Pirates’ financial woes coik 
tinued to haunt them.
What many don’t realize though, js 
that last year lay the ground work for 
what may be one of the fastest rebuild.: 
ing jobs the baseball world has ever 
seen.
The Pirates are young and are only 
going to get better. It won’t be long 
before people speak of Carlos Garcia in 
the same breath as Robby Thompson, 
Craig Biggio, and Delino DeShields. And 
he isn’t the only one on the verge of 
stardom. One cannot forget A1 Martin, 
whose 18 home runs were the most fora 
Bucs rookie since Ralph Kiner, or Midre1 
Cummings, who has shown flashes of1 
brilliance over the past two years in the 
minors.
Of course there still remains several of 
the stars from the glory years in Jeff 
King, Jay Bell, Andy Van Slyke, Don 
“Sluggo” Slaught. The newly acquired 
Brian Hunter could, given a chance to 
play every day, could produce 20-25 
home runs.
The Achiiles’ Heel last year was the 
pitching staff and for the Pirates to 
anywhere this year, it must improve. 
With a healthy Randy Tomlin, and Zane 
Smith joined by future 15-game winners 
in Paul Wagner and Steve Cooke rapid 
improvement is right around the corner.
The key will be keeping closer 
Alejandro Pena healthy. With a true 
closer, the Pirates can go into the late 
innings with confidence that a lead will 
be held—an attribute they did not have 
last year.
Jim Leyland is the best manager ii 
the National League — a fact justified 
by his record. If this rebuilding project 
comes together, however, Leyland could 
make a case for the best in the game.
St. Louis Cardinals: Once a symbol 
of consistency, the Cardinals have been 
inconsistent over the past several years, 
at times, a bonafide contender, and at 
others, just another also-ran.
Please see CENTRAL, page 9Ruggers shut out Indiana U. of Pa., 7-0
Rugby club wins third straight game to open season
By JUSTIN LAM
Tartan Staffwriter
The ÇMU rugby club contin­
ued its three-game winning 
streak by defeating a perennially 
tough Indiana University of Pa. 
(IUP) team 7-0 Saturday.
Action started out in the first 
half with teams attempting to 
gain good field position. However, 
neither side was able to capital­
ize on this conservative strategy, 
and play was kept in the midfield 
for the duration of the half.
Five minutes into the second 
half, senior Bill Lucier broke 
through the IUP back line to block 
a kick and return it for the match’s 
only score, making it 5-0. Sopho­
more Javier Roch completed the 
conversion kick to make the score 
7-0.
CMU’s tough defense eventu­
ally prevailed, and IUP was never 
able to obtain another opportu­
nity to score as the CMU ruggers 
posted the shutout.
Scoring was kept to a mini­
mum because of sloppy field con­
ditions and tough defense by both 
squads.
“We beat a team we shouldn’t division within the Allegheny 
have beat,” said ECE grad stu- Rugby Union, and usually plays 
dent Kevin Lucas. much larger squads such as Slip-
IUP usually plays in a higher pery Rock, Penn State, and Ohio
Chin Oh/Tartan Art Staff
State.
Said senior Mike Keller, the 
club president: “Our tenacious 
win over a team of their size and 
skill, is indicative of how far we 
have come this last year as a 
team.”
Indeed, Saturday’s win finally 
shows a maturation of talent and 
skill, from four-year veterans and 
seniors Lucier, Keller, and Mike 
De La Cruz.
The performances of three-year 
veterans Bryan Ischo, Billy 
Adelman, and John Crowley were 
also critical, not only in 
Saturday’s play but the 1993-94 
season as a whole.
The backs of the team, while 
not capitalizing on all chances on 
offense, managed to play, in the 
words of Keller, “incredible de­
fense.”
The forwards, despite losing 
most of the line outs, managed to 
hang on, and their clutch perfor­
mance contributed to the win.
Carnegie Mellon rugby resumes 
play after spring break, and 
squares off in its next match 
against Westminster College at 
home on April 9.
Professors debate 
merits of Michigan
CHICKS, from page 7
versity. His performance record (we mean in the NCAA tourna­
ment of course) is over 70 percent successful. But that does not 
prevent her from- showing, visibly, her agitation at the prospect 
of a Wolverine loss; which, by the way, the team doesn’t do—lose, 
that is. This, much to the chagrin of the Other and the elation of 
the Self (go figure that one).
In the final analysis, we don’t think anyone should have to play 
for The Most Important Sports Championship in Charlotte, 
North Carolina (all offense intended to loyal Carolinians). We’d 
rather they played right here—in- cosmopolitan Pittsburgh. But 
given the constraints of real life (as opposed to its simulation in 
CMU’s cyber-environs) our picks are: homegirl, Keya: Kentucky; 
Detroit chick, Sharon: you guessed it —.Michigan.
What on earth is a Wolverine?
Sharon Dilworth and Keya Ganguly, writing special to The 
Tartan, are assistant professors in the Department of English; one 
teaches Outlaw Fiction, the other, the Other.
682-3738
$11.50 for a wash an(j 
cut with this coupon
19 Meyran Ave (Oakland] 
Between Forbes & Fifth 
Mon-Sat 9am - 5pm
'the edge in men's hairstyling"
TICO S
DietAid 3000
AS SEEN ON T.V. *SPRAY AWAY THE POUNDS
DietAid 3000 is the only breath spray which acts as an appetite 
suppressant, relieving hunger pangs and the mental desire to eat. 
This spray has a pleasant peppermint flavor.
• 100% NATURAL
• Use With Current Diet • No Calories Per Serving
• Vitamin C • Easy To Use
• Convenient • Discreet
**ORDER TODAY**
Money Back Guarantee! Please allow 2-4 weeks for delivery 
ONLY $19.95 FOR A 3 MONTH SUPPLY 
includes shipping & handling). Send cash, check or money order to: 
HEALTHCARE PRODUCTS 
3330 HILCROFT, STE. D-411 
HOUSTON, TX 77057
Earn a graduate degree in just two years.
Day, Evening or Saturday Classes
Summer session starts May 23. 
Fall session starts August 29.
Call for financial aid information.
Struca ltccfw
T C O L L E C, E
School of Graduate Studies 
Narrows Run Road 
Coraopolis, PA 15108-1189 Phone (412) 262-8535 or FAX 262-4049
Student / Faculty
DISCOUNT AIRFARES 
TO EUROPE
Forbes Travel 
521-7300

---------------------------------------------------

The Tartan • Carnegie Mellon • 21 March 19949
Penguins fans await last-minute trade
Out of Left Field
by Eric Strauss
For Penguins fans waiting for General 
Manager Craig Patrick’s annual giant 
trade, the deal of reserve left wing Jeff 
Daniels to the Florida Panthers for 
defenseman Greg Hawgood only whets 
the appetite. By the time today’s 3 pm 
trading deadline rolls around, if Patrick 
follows his typical pattern, some players, 
will be trading their black and gold for 
another uniform.
In past years, Patrick has swung ma­
jor deals late in the season. Three years
ago, his deal for Ron Francis and Ulf 
Samuelsson helped the Penguins to their 
first Stanley Cup by acquiring a top- 
notch second center and one of the best 
defensive defensemen in the game. Two 
years ago, the Penguins dealt for Rick 
Tocchet and Kjell Samuelsson down the 
stretch, getting toughness up front and 
more defense, the key to another Stanley 
Cup.
Last year, the Pens were looking for 
still more defense, and Patrick got them 
Peter Taglianetti and Mike Ramsey late 
in the year for the playoff run.
Late that year, the Pens experimented 
with Daniels on defense, and his lack of 
success there helped buy his ticket to 
Miami.
Hawgood, a small defenseman who 
struggles on defense but uses his speed 
on offense and on the power play, can 
help boost a Pens’ power play hurt by the 
loss of Mario Lemieux. Hawgood, who 
has 31 points in 52 games this season,
can play the point, enabling Francis to 
move to center — a move made neces­
sary by Lemieux’s prolonged absence.
Patrick has been a little inconsistent 
in his deals so far this year. His major 
off-season move was trading young cen­
ter Shawn McEachern to the Los Ange­
les Kings for veteran defenseman Marty 
McSorley. That move led to his second 
off-season trade, a donation of 
defenseman Paul Stanton to the Boston 
Bruins for a low draft pick.
The McSorley deal was such a major 
mistake for both teams that it led to 
Patrick’s major in-season deal, when he 
sent McSorley back to the Kings along 
with another defenseman, Jim Paek, in 
exchange for — you guessed it — 
McEachern, along with talented but oft- 
injured winger Tomas Sandstrom.
The result of these deals is the Pen­
guins are loaded with forwards (they 
also added hotshot rookie Markus 
Naslund, who has disappointed so far),
and short on defensemen. Getting 
Sandstrom for Paek is a good trade, but 
that leaves the two Samuelssons, 
Taglianetti, and Ramsey as the team’s 
only capable defensemen. That’s where 
the trade of Stanton hurts the team.
So what should Pens fans hope for 
today? Sandstrom could go, as could 
Naslund, or maybe even Jaromir Jagr. 
Martin Straka’s emergence has created 
a glut of speedy forwards (even with 
Tocchet’s back problems), and Jagr and 
Sandstrom are two talented forwards 
who could go in a major deal.
The problem Patrick faces is that many 
of the best defensemen, like Gary Suter, 
Dave Manson, James Patrick, andZarley 
Zalapski (whom the Pens traded three 
years ago in the Francis deal) have al­
ready been traded. Dallas made' a big 
trade involving defensemen on Satur­
day, swapping forward Ulf Dahlen to 
San Jose for defensemen Doug Zmolek 
and Mike Lalor. Other defensemen dealt
in recent weeks include Frantisek 
Kucera and Sergei Bautin.
Of course, the Pens could also surprise 
by making a deal for a goaltender. With 
Tom Barrasso struggling with injuries, 
Patrick’s confidence in Ken Wregget will 
be sorely tested for the first time since 
Wregget was acquired two years ago. 
Patrick wanted a veteran backup when 
he got Wregget, and a mediocre starter 
was not what he had in mind.
Whatever move Patrick makes, he has 
his team’s best interests in mind. His 
goal has always been the Stanley Cup, 
and he is not above trading stars or fan 
favorites to get one. As the trading dead­
line nears, Pens fans will be on the edge 
of their seats waiting for Patrick to swing 
the deal that will bring the Penguins 
their third Stanley Cup in four years.
Eric Strauss, Tartan Sports editor, is 
a sophomore double-majoring in creative 
writing and applied history.
IM News
SPORTS IN SEASON participants.
BASKETBALL
The following teams were 
crowned campus champions on 
Intramural Night: Majors—SCS 
Bucket Brigade; Intermediate — 
Onyx; Minors — Beta Young­
bloods; Women Only — FMRA; 
Minors “NIT” — Theta Xi Suns.
FLOORHOCKEY
Commissioners: Maj ors—D ave 
Ekem, x2-3922; Minors — Jim 
Saxon, x2-3872, and Pat Leach, 
x2-2538; Women Only — Trish 
Williams, x2-2609
Playoff schedules are posted on 
the IM bulletin board. The sched­
ule for the first week is as follows:
MINORS, Tuesday: 7 pm — 
Nads vs. Snowdogs; 8 pm — 
Chico’s Bail Bonds vs. Delta 
Squad; 9 pm—Dilligafvs. PhiKap 
Barracuda A; 10 pm — Wet 
Leather Congress vs. Pioneers 
Bloodsport.
MINORS, Wednesday: 7 pm — 
Theta Xi Sharks vs. KDRB; 8 pm 
Theta Xi Slashing vs. Beta 
Checking Line.
MAJORS, Wednesday: 9 pm — 
Rockoff vs. Frozen Assets; 10 pm 
—Grown Men Naked vs. Beta B- 
team.
FACULTY/GRAD VOLLEY­
BALL
Commissioner: Chris Paredis, 
*8-7121
Matches will be played on Sun-
ays in the main gym. Game 
schedules and team standings are 
being sent out via email to the
WATER BASKETBALL
Commissioner: Dave Ekem, x2- 
3922
Water basketball will begin as 
soon as the new backboard and 
basket arrive. Check the IM bul­
letin board for the starting date.
CO-REC BADMINTON
Prendekar won the champion­
ship of Co-Rec badminton for this 
year.
WRESTLING
The wrestling tournament was 
held Saturday. No results were 
available.
3-ON-3 BASKETBALL
Games were played Tuesday 
and Wednesday.
FOUL SHOOTING
The 100-shot contests were held 
last week.
THREE-POINT
SHOOTOUT
This contest was held last 
Thursday.
TEAM BADMINTON
The tournament was held last 
Thursday.
DARTS
Commissioner: Dave Ekem, x2- 
3922
BRIDGE
Commissioner: Scott Powell, 
422-1349
PINOCHLE
Commissioner: Dave Ekern, x2- 
3922
These sports are completing 
their seasons.
SPORTS COMING UP 
FENCING
Commissioner: Thibaut de- 
Barros Conti, x2-3350
Tournaments for majors and 
minors in all three fencing weap­
ons will be held after spring break. 
Students, faculty, and staff are 
welcome to participate. For more 
information, contact the IM de­
partment or the check the 
assocs.fencing electronic bboard.
SWIMMING
Commissio7ier: AmyWatchom, 
X2-3104
The meet will be held on Thurs­
day, April 7, at 4:30 pm.
WEIGHTLIFTING
Comm issioner: Keith Gorse, x8- 
2222
Entries were due last Thurs­
day.
INDOOR SOCCER
Commissioners: Majors—Dave 
Ekern, x2-3922; Intermediate — 
Pat Leach, x2-2538; Minors — 
Scott Powell, 422-1349; Women 
Only — Amy Watchorn, x2-3104
Entries were due last Thurs­
day, and matches will begin after 
spring break.
SOFTBALL
Commissioners: Majors—Dave
Ekem, x2-3922; Intermediate — 
Pat Leach, x2-2538; Minors — 
Jim Saxon, x2-3872; Women Only
— Trish Williams, x2-2609
Entries were due last Thurs­
day. The rules clinic will be held 
Tuesday, April 5, at 4:30 pm in 
the small gym. Games will begin 
the following day. Remember, 
rules clinics are mandatory or a 
forfeit will be charged.
KICKBALL
Commissioner: Dave Ekem, x2- 
3922
CO-REC SOFTBALL
Commissioner: Pat Leach, x2- 
2538
Entries were due last Thurs­
day.
BUSINESS
Floor hockey players are re­
minded by the IM department to 
keep up the good sportsmanship 
and avoid fighting. Kickball rules 
are being worked on for a co-rec 
sport. The tentative date for the 
rules is April 23. Nominees for 
IM Person of the Year will be 
taken at the next meeting. Nomi­
nees for the Outstanding Service 
Award are Mike Mastroianni, 
Sanford Rivers, and Keith Gorse. 
The banquet date is Tuesday, May 
3. A special basketball officiating 
clinic for next year is being con­
sidered. The next board meeting 
will be Wednesday, April 6, at'12 
noon in the IM office.
Compiled by 
ERIC STRAUSS
dossier
The dossier is currently
The dossier is currently accepting submissions for 
accepting submissions for the 
the final issue of the semester — the senior issue. 
final issue of the semester — 
The deadline for submissions for this incredible 
the senior issue. The deadline 
issue is April 14,1994. Submissions may be left at 
for submissions for this 
The Tartan office, Skibo Room 50, or the Skibo 
incredible issue is April 14, 
Info Desk. If you have any questions, comments, 
1994. Submissions may be left 
or concerns feel free to contact Ryan McGinness, 
at The Tartan office, Skibo
Aimee Beal, or Gerry DeSeve at 268-2111.
Room SO, or the Skibo Info „ ¦
Desk. If you have any 
questions, comments, or 
concerns feel free to contact 
Ryan McGinness, Aimee Beal, 
or Gerry DeSeve at 268-2111.
eo
03 15 1d GO
Senior Issue 
submissions due 4.14
Cardinals have talent, questions
CENTRAL, from page 8
What team will appear this year 
is a question which is not easily 
answered, but the fact stands that 
the talent is there. It remains to 
be seen whether it can be put 
together. Manager Joe Torre is 
respected, but not enough.
Behind an outfield (Brian Jor­
dan, Bernard Gilkey, Mark 
Whiten) which ranks second to 
°nly that of the Expos, the Cardi­
nals feature names such as Todd 
Zeile, Gregg Jefferies and of 
bourse, the venerable Ozzie Smith.
The Cardinals find themselves
more in a position of loser by 
default, if anything. Though they 
do have a strong overall lineup, 
question marks at second base, 
an aging Smith, and lack of pro­
duction at catcher, keep this 
lineup from ranking up with the 
rest in the division.
The same goes for the pitching 
staff. Although Bob Tewksbury, 
Allan Watson, and Rene Arocha 
are the basis for a strong starting 
three, the loss of starter Donovan 
Osborne — and the fact that they 
are left without a true closer with 
the trade of Lee Smith — leaves 
the Cardinals’ staff with too many
questions to be taken seriously.
The Cardinals are a good team, 
and if everything comes together 
and the planets all align them­
selves, they could be a serious 
contender. But with things being 
as tough as they are in the N.L. 
Central, the Cardinals appear to 
be the odd team out.
Projected order of finish: 1) Cin­
cinnati Reds; 2) Houston Astros; 
3) Pittsburgh Pirates; 4) St. Louis 
Cardinals; 5) Chicago Cubs.
Anuj Gupta, Tartan assistant 
Sports editor, is a sophomore 
chemical engineering major.
classified
JOBSTRAVEL
Agents — No Experience. Company 
expanding — $12-18 hr. + bonuses. 
Send Sase for details to: Interna­
tional,! 375 Coney Island Ave., Ste 427 
Brooklyn, NY 11230.
COLLEGE ENTREPRENEURS — A
collegiate wholesaling company is 
piloting a new program at Carnegie 
Mellon. Students will have the opportu­
nity to retail college products at 
wholesale prices including t-shirts, 
pillows, etc. For more information please 
call 1 -800-537-4355 ask for EFI 
program.
SPRING BREAK 1994 Cancún, Bahamas, 
Jamaica, Florida & Padre! 110% Lowest 
Price Guarantee! Organize 15 friends 
and your trip is free! TAKE A BREAK 
STUDENT TRAVEL (800) 328-7283
Mise
Free money for school... well almost! 
Scholarships Guaranteed — Risk Free. 
Appointments only: Battista's Educational 
Endowment Fund Find (BEEFF) 531 - 
6862.
PEACE CORPS WORLD WISE LivngD
For further information about Peace Corps, write Box 896, Washington DC 20526________________________
INSTRUCTIONS: The Peace Corps has volunteers serving in nearly 90 nations around the 
world. By solving this puzzle, you will learn about one of these countries.
Solve the four numbered puzzle words and then unscramble the letters in the squares to produce
the name of the country.
!»lpip\os = w t_ ‘"1P.Wii)j ummiÿ m.\i>iu)Snx •¿ ji/i/ik/jv 7 forvvvvvreu
An archipelago of about 100 islands in 
the Indian Ocean northeast of 
Madagascar.
1. A government having a chief of state who is 
not a monarch and is usually a president.
2. Nation in southern Europe on the Adriatic 
Sea which experienced major ethnic 
conflict and civil war in the summer of 
1991.
3. Religion professed by 90% of this nation’s 
citizens.
4. One of the languages of this country which
is also the name of a highly seasoned food 
typically prepared with rice, okra, tomatoes 
and peppers. _______
HOUSING
WANTED
Summer sublet and fall rental. North 
Oakland furnished one bedroom and 
efficiency apartments. Close to campus. 
On campus shuttle bus route. Very clean 
and spotless. Spacious bookshelves. 
Roomy closets. Secure apartment 
buildings. From $230. Call 683-0776
Roommate needed M/F for large 
furnished home in quiet residential area 
of Squirrel Hill. Call Dave, 421-0166, 
daytime.
Townsend Booksellers. We buy 
thousands of worthwhile books in all 
scholarly and technical subjects and the 
arts. Best prices paid or generous trade 
credit. Visit us for out-of-print, used, and 
rare books. Open daily: Monday - 
Saturday, 11am-6 pm, Sunday 1-5pm. 
Near campus at 4612 Henry St. (off S. 
Craig) 682-8030.
Classified Rates
1-20 words.........$5.00 / wk
21-50 words.......$8.00 / wk
51-100 words....$10.00 / wk
•Classifieds must be paid in 
cash or by check before the 
first-scheduled run date.
•On-campus departments 
and organizations may pay 
by journal transfer with a 
valid account number.
•Due by 5 pm the Thursday 
before publication.
The Classifieds work for youl
Tartan Classifieds will 
resume Monday April 11. 
The due date for submis­
sions is Thursday April 7.
COURSE piFO
ENGINEERING & ARCHITECTURAL 
STUDENTS: Enhance your skills and 
employment opportunities by learning 
computer-aided drafting 6c design 
(CADD) at Pittsburgh Technical Institute. 
Short-term (6 weeks) evening classes 
start monthly. For information contact 
Carmen Sporio at 232-3940.
THE TARTAN 
268-2111

---------------------------------------------------

Carnegie Mellon University’s 
First Annual
VIDEO GAME RUMBLE!
I ' iujWeaturing
MORTAL KOMBAT II
m
For the first time ever, 32 CMU students will 
compete for the title of 
SUPERIOR GRAND MASTER CHAMPION’
Pay your $2 Registration Fee at the Skinfo desk by April 7 
The money covers arcade costs, we supply the quarters
It’s a double elimination tournament 
The top four players win trophies
APRIL 9, 1994
Starts at 1"bm
Skibo Arcade damerobm:
$2.00 Registration Fee at Skibo 
Information Desk
Sponsored by AB Special Events, H. Lazar & Son, and partly by your Activities Fee.
Your Future Is In Washington.
The George Washington University’s l!H) I Summer Sessions
Advance Your Career. Advance to Washington This Summer.S
pend this summer learning in the world’s most 
stimulating city. The 1994 Summer Sessions at The 
George Washington University offer over 500 
courses covering 60 different areas of study.
Enjoy the Resources of the Notion's Capital
Located just four blocks from the White House and 
adjacent to the World Bank, GW’s campus is within 
walking distance of the U.S. State Department, the 
Smithsonian, and many other prestigious institutions.
Meet the Movers and the Shakers
You’ll not only learn from The George Washington 
University’s distinguished faculty, but will also meet 
government and corporate leaders, cabinet members, 
heads of government agencies, Capitol Hill staffers, 
association directors, and corporate executives, who are 
often seminar leaders, guest lecturers, and part-time 
faculty. Opportunities for internships in prominent D.C. 
organizations are also available.
Maximize Your Career Potential with Special 
Summer Programs
0 Prevention of Terrorism
• Historical Archaeology 
° History in the Media 
0 Sport & Event Management 
0 Tropical Marine Biology
• Publication Institute
• International Education:
Indonesia and Malaysia
• GW Madrid Centre
• Public Relations
• Total Quality Management ! 
in Higher Education
0 Information Systems
• Legal Assistant
• Latin America: Cultural 
and Business Environment ^
0 And Many More!
Choose from a Variety of Options 
at The George Washington University
Two main 6-week sessions: May 11 - June 22 and 
June 27 - August 8. Plus sessions ranging from one- i 
week field sessions to 13-week seminars.
For More Information, 
Call 202-994-6360
or mail or fax the 
coupon below.
¦JIhe
SHINGTON DC'
My Future Is in Washington This Summer!
Please rush me the following information:
? 1994 Summer Sessions Bulletin with course 
descriptions, special programs, Study Abroad 
programs, schedules, and registration information.
? GW’s Year-round Undergraduate Programs
? GW’s Year-round Graduate Programs
? 1994 Summer Sessions Study Abroad Programs
Name___________
Current Address _
City_____________
Phone(__
_D.O.B. _
_ State _Zip _
Return completed form to:
The George Washington University, 1994 Summer Sessions 
2121 Eye Street, NW, Washington, DC 20052 
FAX (202)994-9133.
The George Washington University is an equal opportunity institution.
Finally something for college that just got less expensive.
, \ X '$ \X\ \\X$<; . 
Macintosh Quadra 650Macintosh Quadra 660.WMacintosh Quadra 800
y+WWi: ü’.'UU.
Macintosl) Quadra 840<Macintosh Quadra 950
Introducing the Apple Power Price Drop.Prices have just been 
reduced on select Macintosh Quadra models. Which means terrific 
savings on some of Apple’s most powerful computers. Plus, the entire 
Macintosh Quadra line is upgradable to PowerPC” to keep up with your
growing needs. And as if that weren’t enough, you’ll also receive a $150 
mail-in rebate" when you buy a Macintosh Quadra 650 with any Apple' 
LaserWriter.' So, visit your Apple Campus Reseller 
today. With prices this low, you can’t afford not to.Apple»
For further information visit 
the Campus Computer Store 
or call 935-5394
nil*/Ibnutab.t/.il/’H orubilc>///y Viohut. Sn-ymr Mitbiur.irl.^,-<«wfiu<UaticrfirMiils Offer nmlnbrn‘l>nMnkilhy Liu .Mlrq&smvnnl. Affile. Ik.lftbtw hcvrtrihriuiil \khvihJi {liunlni nn<njtUmxl Iruknuirbol i/flc(uwpnhr lin Avivr/V. t>,/Inukw.irt>4bthnhilMUitHEriEcJ \kKbmv Oirponili»». iiMilmkrlKiwlbmin"

---------------------------------------------------

dossier®
DESIGN @ LITERARY RAG

---------------------------------------------------

m&umor: Ryan J. McGinns ¦ M|fnr .........
ggaLUtaaacy-Editnr. ry^. |
I don't know why non-creative writers
always put out work which is just as good
as their engiish department 
Patrsrng i/sT hopth sT epoo le hsCO/srn ahlpC C/U RUaC/UtS ,e 3lpGIU aotUaA3 /UatA 
counterparts. Writers like Gabriel Kuo, 
Urlpn/ hsCO/srn ahlpC C/U RUaC/Ut Cl oaTC prCso HEENw C/Ur AlrGC tUaA sC ,bpTo 
Kip Moore and Sarah O’Connell (story 
tUOUsIUA a vlTCOatA etlf itsrsAaA d ilhanlS m3 eaC/Ut RtlCU Cl Ta3 sCGT IUt3 /lC 
forthcoming) can drill a word processor 
C/UtUw arA /U /aA nlrU C/aC Aa3 Cl oll1 aC CtlvsOao hstATS P/aC , RarC Cl 1rUR sTw c 
as well as any fiction workshopper. This 
/lR OlfU ,Gf rlC sr itsrsAaA d ilhanl... P/3 af , TCpO1 /UtU sr C/U sOU arA 
is not to put down those creative writing 
OloA RsC/ lro3 vsnUlrT elt Olfvar3. ,CuT TrlRsrn aT , RtsCU C/sTS i/U qvtsrn 
majors who have dedicated their coJIege 
kFpsrlD was elpt Aa3T anlS ’3 C/U CsfU 3lp tUaA C/sTw sC hUCCUt hU Ratfw lt UoTU 
careers to the pursuit of a well-crafted 
,GooSSS,GooSSS,Goo nl arA RtsCU a tUaoo3 fUar vlUf ahlpC sC ql C/UtUS!•sfUU ’Uao 
story, but maturity seems to play more of
a factor in being able to write at this level
than anything else. Since there is a
critical shortage of (fiction) work coming
into Dossier from English Department 
folk, I encourage those of you in MCS, 
CFA, CIT, etc. to show them how it’s
done.—Gerry DeSeve
Ryan J. McGinness

---------------------------------------------------



---------------------------------------------------

Romeo wasn’t a systems analyst.
Aristotle didn’t charge a consultation fee.
And Columbus didn’t get a SURG Grant for world exploration.
Lincoln didn’t chase a single ambulance.
Adam didn't ask for a prenuptial agreement
And Eve never once asked him to use a lubricated condom and spermicidal foam. 
No parents ever suggested advisory listening of Mozart.
And Napoleon didn’t watch too much MTV.
The Bible is on CD RO

---------------------------------------------------

(eat it.)
'id/bzp
MEAL/words+design/GABRIEL KUO
The man is on the train, on his way home from 
work. Of coursc the train is running late, he thinks 
to himself, running late. Of course it had to be 
today. He turns toward the window and looks 
outside at the black tunnels of space, and focuses 
on the tiny light bulbs that slowly move away from 
his sight as the train slowly moves away from the 
light bulbs. He follows each new bulb as soon as it 
comes into his peripheral vision, and follows it until 
he no longer sees it anymore and does the same thing 
over again. The train is moving, but it has 
_not left the terminal
yet.
His wife is waiting for him at home, 
cooking the man a great meal; a meal so wonderful 
she had planned and shopped for it a week in 
advance and went to bed very early the previous 
night. She tries hard to make everything perfect, 
because everything must be perfect for tonight. This 
is all for him, she thinks, slicing mushrooms. She 
had asked him yesterday if he could come home 
early today, so that everything could be perfect. She 
looks at the clock and starts to get nervous.
“What time is it,” the man asks. 
The conductor punches his ticket and does not 
make eye contact, never wasting a motion. “Six- 
thirty,” he says.
The man sinks back into his seat and looks at his 
knees His stomach growls, and he remembers he
had an early lunch today because he thought he 
would get home early and have a wonderful dinner 
with his wife, but he is running late. This time it is 
not his fault, he thinks, because the train was actu­
ally late. But she won’t believe me. She’ll tell me I 
could’ve tried harder. I could’ve made it if I really 
wanted to. Too many times I’ve been late, she says.
She looks at the clock again and contin­
ues to get nervous, being more angry now. All I 
want is to make him happy, she thinks, while she 
sautes the mushrooms, slowly adding the onion she 
chopped earlier. She is not concentrating on cook­
ing now, but merely going through the motions to 
avoid her vegetables being burnt. She is thinking 
about him.
He is thinking about her and the great 
meal she spent all day preparing for him. His stom­
ach has grown in its hunger, almost painful. He 
knows he is upset for being late, but his hunger is 
unbearable. All he can think of is food, and he feels 
bad that he is hungry. The train pulls into his town 
and he gets off. His feet touch the platform, and he 
stops. For a moment he stands frozen, and lets all 
the remaining departures walk into and around 
him, as if he were a statue, perfecdy content being 
completely made out of stone. He waits until every 
last bit of human contact has dissolved and only 
then starts to walk. He cannot believe he is consid­
ering eating at a restaurant to relive his hunger, now 
intensely painful. The walk home is only twenty 
minutes, but that is too long today. I have to go 
home to my wife, he thinks, but he can’t.
He knows of a restaurant he had sampled 
some years before, which actually was relatively 
near the station, and heads toward it. Step after 
step, his mind turn^g^^^Block after block, his 
mind i^fe^r. He opens §?e door and immediately 
smells the warm sensation of food, gready increased 
by his hunger pains. He is greeted and seated at the 
restaurant by someone he does not know, who is 
especially polite to him. He asks whether he would 
like to sit in the smoking section or not, and if he 
wants to see a wine list; only one other person is 
eating in the restaurant. The man orders, waiting 
only five minutes before he starts to eat. Almost 
violently, he chews and swallows his food, disre­
garding the flavors and textures of the well pre­
pared meal, and indulging every bit in the primal 
act of consuming. He does not think about the 
food, he simply eats it. His mind his clear.
He finishes and pays for his dinner, 
leaves the restaurant and begins to walk home. 
Satiated, his thoughts now completely turn towards 
his wife. He knows where she is. She is in the bed­
room now, looking at her knees, like he does. He 
walks by the small pond a few blocks down from 
his house and decides to take a rest on the bench 
next to the water. He sits and begins to sofdy cry, 
only a few minutes after she does.

---------------------------------------------------

dossier
DESIGN ©LITERARY RAG
BN AILS
By Ryan J. McGinness
1«a
mfjjh&T-»—------------------------J

---------------------------------------------------



---------------------------------------------------

'oted, loving dogti©rh«s
^ away m>^)kfr?IOTX ' 
stant seas dine try-ye1"’""’"
Æ-'fur ie Kin«:
¦t forget you^F&jlH^rV^^^
¿W ‘ - - -
:j*9üpfri€«i8
I pi!H3 A“
UEaq jaaijq s.jaipotu jno/ 
UEaq s.jaqioiu jnoX qsajjaj pire
>j33M E ODUO J3Ua| E 3JIJM noX lEip 33S 
X|3)ES 3J31J1 :a2 pire ||3M3JEJ ¡saX 
jsipoiu jnoX aaSjo; i.uop pire 
qi|Eaq poo? ui ajaqi 33? noX Xeuj 
seas iirejsjp iieMan 
Pima X|uo Xiu Xeme SyFem ajtnoX 
jai^oiu 2u|ao| ‘paaoAap jnoX 
sîfoq qsinSire qiiM pire sjEaj ipiM 
jaiqSnsp pooS e uiEiuaj noX lEqi aas 
Xeme osyFe/ aj(noX TyeMyMea Xlu *p|it|D Xiu
thfefr'SWiP1 
^nds, it h 
ind, OQi 
I rfpf
JdJ;
Drst
feflï
w>h
sa
•trims*
:in ’
avetira/Sc!ch iteril.ROiralj
aqsi*M>aïerSusi A|UO »M>».PW
E « au) 01
PU!>f EL,Lb
£Udi
'3,9 sau;.,
“ 3U!P OJ3'V îaui-,
HIM* laA‘,-aaJq * M=>P-^ iZZ
u 3U.'P
reweSfetówf
kssteffpuftn 
fii
>1!|îf 31 ui ujoc>j un punz-aB jooj ¡qoX 
uaai-EUJ auipsaa^-J^ U.u un
punz-a? qsuj Mey uaaq-E iun>j ipE 
uatu-qïX 31tAR jaq-qi-*-*
pujîj Sra-ure auiiu *pui)f auiui osjooj aap 
-»l-lnuj 3q.9i!| aU)p
>jajqs3jiu un uaj-qajj ytu ajçq ipip 
jai ooS e jai3op e Xz Xez
>f3A-E3SJOoi aap TMiAnMK9U!UJ ‘PU|>f auiujXqE||n|
aAii-it»uaMa snuitu 03 dn paa^treJ«n
'OU Wjfb§3& XUI uo 3U"dsu“u”4 u
I Al^i«MlrkrfWinrTA*<
Îi
*3-Uig,J’ve loved 
ted him to dinner 
I don't have tTrfme lb,
:bflJ5p*tie pTat^,iatK^rtSs^<9{f,tjL. 
n old woma^H^frl§§'tdv^§HJ^H>V-0Ti,.
1 his belly, arrives. Iisten- my mother sYKfl&ni
He was nice actualtf.ete&fcB-qae«

---------------------------------------------------

HI'*-»
iBwaoq ft
¦ip
liq s.jaqoou/ 
iP»SUS>*‘pUr 
i?2a#*T£ptf
mou &e>yp 
soeDna urei
Lj B pUB M
i|Lp^pipm
\ dii1 •¦— ' ^'
refraina bree->
u«r> \ nacked it deftly in 
;-ve-le der ma-men when I packed
in my hands was ¡us^n* ^ , wokc wlth salt on my cheek,
for chitchat, I’m on my way to play rummy with the girls, have you got a date for tonight, 
interfere again, but Sasha says there's this boy going free and to be honest,
The heart in my hanu> ¦- . 
it in the freezer. Dont-for-get-your
listen, I don't have time 
look, I should rot in hell if I so much as begin to interfere again, oui MvCCv C
that's what you are and I said to her, why should two people be lonely if four can be happy?
tour? 
you. me- 
32^
^aaW) 
att Y°u
. Sasha-
a do ¦'*
pushing Y°u’
need to.otherdoesn
,ne ca". 
t like tc
—-I:„o«her — 
die \eav»n&
atonear\d
hello
u- *•,« is well you don't really -^.y.^sHe^d you wouid he acting myca,
a friend of Sasha s,well, not really
have to
friend, my mother's the friend.
understand my mother, my
The thing was, she was dying, so I made the call.
mother.
He was nice actually. Not Bogey meets Bergman nice, not here's lookin' at you kid and damn the torpedoes nice, not 
even frankly Scarlett nice, but an okay guy nevertheless, with a nice line in chair-pulling out, door-holding, parcel-carrying, and 
no obvious war wounds. We went to a movie, we went out for coffee, we went to bed. And it was all very nice. Not come 
from the root of your spine nice, not did you feel the earth move nice, not my goodness hard again, nice, but an overall okay 
experience with some nondeductible extras like hand-holding, ear-blowing, lip-smacking. And he didn't scour himself off 
afterward, lathering away in my shower out out damn spot, didn't even rinse his mouth gargling to all the girls I've loved
before before spitting succinctly. Nice. DV wich one luminous gesture.
. next week, making four people happy w.tSo I invited him to dinner the next week.
dgujftt;
nj
«ot l° eat, Sasha
run"i"* up a batch, d.dn wir^ 5Wf,ed
half an hour 1 ^ 3 day
stuffed
—/. , —. uidi looks like it’s been painted
so I took the liberty, you should forgive an old woman her last wish, of , - — y and a half, which I will deliver, with your approval of cnn«- - ago, he should grow onions in his belly, arrives.
icy food that looks like it's I
s ‘ ' Did won . »wt wisn, of
course, as soon as the damn
onto *e
The thing is, she was dying, so I replaced the two delicate wafers of sole that I had coaxed from the comer 
fishmonger only yesterday, in the freezer and went out to buy more wine, something red and full-bodied to go with mother
love and stuffed derma.
When I came back, the police were at my door, shuffling their turnip feet and twisting their hats in their hams and 
begging to inform me that they were sorry to announce that there had been an accident. Comer Fifth and Main, an old lady 
and a taxi driver, stuffed derma everywhere.
Well, there goes my entree, I thought.hot water in
Ik,.Jb it with garlic and basil and
' and by three o' clock, it was
his coat and we sat down to refresh ourselves
heart out of the freezer and defrosted it in half an hour by running hot win.. ... the sink and rubbed 
J coarse salt and stuck it with cloves and orange sticks to sweeten the bitterness 
refulgent with red wine 1-------r ar>d at eight o’ clock, he arrived, I tookSo 1 took her heart oui vMC C' ground pepper and coarse salt and stucK a hFyF v-.~—
basting in a gravy refulgent with red wine and bay leaves and at eight 
French bread and green salad and
UB|tBW.Spl04Ììq&
Xjopp oi pa>p*-
‘8M)M
I ‘||9M ‘||bd Xiu 2u\wdxa aq. __
I Ofl “TTUJJ»P paurtu a/*s PMhr gnMaa c r>i icr>o ini m ir*i n x> 111 i \ nn lrin I AAAriSi
my
my
mother’s 
heart,
mother!
bitter
.............................
7f,'pn rr,7o'n

---------------------------------------------------



---------------------------------------------------



---------------------------------------------------

Il c&H kear tke qkosts coMparing notes -- 
scrdifb\i¡Kttair cUnk nicküi, 
wkÎffÿerÎHf secrets aminç tU^ir griwy sleeves 
$&mtÎMs they êvm îâII ^ t ¿
tm “V
y ^
î4w I UífVi my eleni afm, 
á^müi§ ¿k¿ perfm s fkfêk
liiw tkmfí éf & drunken muéêf 
\jtêêTtâim§ §§mi
wim mà strâwhffiês 
mrdé tM pH l/k# spi*rbi*fK 
imvMlfU WQfàs -
£ fltétff 6^-'-
H tlk* éWi Wf êf
^ mmfy
f?m
iiV# my 
ifc# M'*§
(ôwst <s*f &
Hllll (krt&y§ frf té1 &%m\u)
IwfáíeeáfrMM 
á$m 
fw 
(t§m
Anát \tfk&ft65§ptí
s&iwstà&tl tofô®
md Fiffk
m

---------------------------------------------------

Bread
1 pound spaghettini
Garlic 
& Olive Oi!
in a large pot,
4 qt. of salted water to a boll.
the spaghettini,Tai.....................
1/3 cup extra-virgin olive oil
2 cloves of garlic (finely chopped)
4 oz. stale «asarse country bread 
(crusts discarded and 
bread c r um b I e d )
salt
and cook until al dente. 
Meanwhile, in a frying pan.
freshly ground pepper ¦ 
parsley
7?
yO_%
the olive oil over 
medium heat.
¿Ml the garlic and guyid, stirring
%o-
frequently until it starts to golden, 
about 3 minutes.
ws amn pongt iorvp»k g•t iT•a5•rn »a5oo5•F 
r•a5M aTg»antk gpTra O v5•ran»R
arrange It on a warm flatter.
the bread crumb mixture °
c r u m b
\_V\e top
and season with salt and black pepper.
pari/<“ u /-N itToss well, garnish with parsley,^and serve piping \ \uC.

---------------------------------------------------

T TTTTIT/Mrara n n ran imi ü si
LI Vili VJ
Umn Ugoag•k 1go•nF5n VnMMT• E•5Lno»5alk B5aa»proFmk Bn••»lMLg•5g
reelsmlieps as it entertain
Above: First place 
winners Delta Delta 
Delta and Theta Xi 
perform “Grease.”
Right: Kappa Alpha 
Theta and Phi Kappa 
Theta star in their 
own rendition of 
“Aladdin." Their 
musical adventure 
won second place.
Jim Synder/Tartan Photo Editor
Above: Delta Gamma, third 
place winners, perform in 
“Crazy For You.”
Right: Beta Theta Pi,
Chairman’s Choice winner, 
jets through selections from 
“West Side Story.”
By JENNIFER FORBES
Tartan Copy Staff
Greek Sing 1994, held Friday night, was quite a success: it raised $5000 for the 
American Diabetes Association, and the participating houses presented a wide 
array of musical entertainment. It was obvious that a great deal of time and effort 
went into each production.
To open the show, Sigma Nu presented “Paint Your Wagon,” based on a 1970s 
movie about gold miners. The brothers all sang well, although it was difficult to 
understand some of the lyrics. In particular, the soloists were very good. The 
songs were also nicely done with some interesting choreography.
They were followed by Delta Gamma’s “Crazy for You,” a musical about a town 
trying to save its local theater. The backdrop really set the scene and made a nice 
transition from farm to theater. The choreography was elaborate and mostly 
well-executed, although the dancers seemed a little stiff at times. The best part 
was a tap number toward the end of the show. It was very impressive and well 
executed.
Beta Theta Pi presented the familiar “West Side Story.” The brothers of Beta 
were great to watch because it looked like they were having fun and really 
enjoying their performance. The singing was good and their voices blended 
nicely. The choreography in “Officer Krupky” was some of the funniest in Greek 
Sing.
Delta Upsilon offered “Once On This Island,” set on a Caribbean island. “Some 
Girls” was the best number. It started with a single person and then slowly 
includes people to create a wonderful harmony in a soulful song. The choreog­
raphy was ambitious, but not quite in unison.
A “Tribute to Elvis Aaron Presley” by Delta Tau Delta opened with a fairly good 
impersonation of Ed Sullivan. The audience was then treated to a series of 
crooning Elvises. The jumpsuited Elvises needed some more work—the singing 
was a little off. However, their rendition of “Jailhouse Rock” was excellent. The 
singing was spirited and the choreography lively.
Delta Delta Delta and Theta Xi performed “Grease.” This was one of the best 
shows of the night. They successfully recreated the movie in both costume and 
sets. The singing and choreography were excellent. The only problem was the 
number of people on stage, which tended to distract the audience from the main 
action. This was overcome in “Greased Lightning.” With only a few people 
involved, it was well-sung, well-danced, and incredibly fun to watch.
Kappa Kappa Gamma closed the First act with “Chicago.” This musical about 
women who murder their husbands was played for laughs. They opened with a 
nice, relaxed, version of “All That Jazz.” The soloist, Alexa Domeck, had a good 
jazzy voice that worked perfectly with the music.
The second act opened with “AcaPika” by Pi Kappa Alpha. This act, similar to 
that of last year's show, consisted of several brothers singing a cappella. The 
singing was wonderful with perfectly blended harmonies.
Kappa Sigma presented its annual comedy skit. This year they parodied Hee 
Haw. They were very funny as usual. The singing was generally good, as they 
performed country songs such as “Elvira.” Aaron Berkson did a great imitation/ 
parody of Garth Brooks' “Friends in Low Places.”
Alpha Epsilon Pi performed “A Funny Thing Happened on the Way to the 
Forum.” This comedy was about Homan soldiers. The singing was generally good 
although the choreography seemed a little stiff. Heather Farley, Vivien Weiss, 
Matthew Goldberg, and Adam Donshik did an excellent job in their various 
renditions of “Comedy Tonight."
Kappa Alpha Theta and Phi Kappa Theta joined forces to present “Aladdin.” 
The show was very similar to the movie; the silhouette effect with the genie in 
“Friend Like Me” was excellent, adding a magical touch to the performance. The 
costumes and sets held true to the movie. The choreography was ambitious. 
However, they also had a problem with too many people on stage, which tended 
to be distracting to the audience.
Sigma Alpha Epsilon offered “Girl Crazy.” Thechoreography was similar to the 
precision dancing performed by SAE in the past two years. However, this year 
they seemed to pay more attention to the singing. “Embraceable You” was sung 
very smoothly by Keith Cunningham. “I’ve Got Rhythm” was a excellent example 
of the blending of song and dance.
The show ended with SigmaTau Gamma’s “And the World Goes Round.” This 
show was also one of the best of the night, offering strong soloists and strong 
choreography. Most of the songs were light and funny, and Sig Tau treated them 
with the right amount of humor. Jessica Messer did a very fine job singing 
“Arthur in the Afternoon.”
Overall, Greek Sing went very well. There were very few delays between shows 
and AB Tech did a great job with lighting and sound.
David Perry/Tartan Photographer
. Överall Greet Sing Resuilis
1st Place:"Grease"Delta Delta Delta and Theta Xi
2nd Place"Aladdin”Kappa Alpha Theta and Phi Kappa Theta
3rd Place:"Crazy For You'Delta Gamma
4th Place:"AcaPika"Pi Kappa Alpha
5th Place:"Chicago"Kappa Kappa Gamma
.eYTue
By KEEGAN FOLK
Tartan Contributing Editor
Greek Sing began over 90 
years ago and is still going 
strong. Stronger, in fact, than 
ever, because this year the 
members ofthe Greek Singcom- 
mittee have managed to get 
more sponsors and advertising, 
than they have in the past.
The two corporate sponsors 
this year were Going Greek, a 
local retailer of Greek-theme 
apparel and University Print­
ing and Publications. The ben­
eficiary of this charity event, at 
which about $5000 is expected 
to be raised, is the American
benefits Amenean.D felle ties Association
Diabetes Association.
By choosing this particular or ­
ganization to benefit, the partici­
pants of Greek Sing are proving 
their continued dedication to 
lending a hand in the fight against 
various medical and social prob­
lems. Past beneficiaries of Greek 
Sing’s fundraising have been hos­
pitals, community awareness pro­
grams, medical research facili­
ties, and various outreach pro­
grams.
“Lives have been changed: 
people are able to have their blood 
analyzed by a machine that Greek 
Sing funded for the Central Blood 
Bank, cancer patients are able to 
get financial assistance, and
AIDS victims receive a host of 
services that are partially funded 
by Greek Sing contributions,” said 
Patricia Harned, Assistant to the 
Dean of Student Affairs and 
Greek Advisor, in a letter to the 
Greek community that appeared 
in the Greek Sing program. 
Harned also pointed out that 
Greek Sing has raised over 
$20,000 over the last four years 
for the different charities.
While the motive for Greek Sing 
is philanthropy, the atmosphere 
is all about the show, and the 
participants involved take the 
competition quite seriously. In 
the beginning, Greek Sing pro­
ductions were mostly songs from
various times and places, and 
while Greek Sing participants are 
still singing, the sources of the 
songs have changed. This year’s 
productions have their origins in 
Broadway and the cinema, TV, a 
capella, and are set in the 1850s, 
the 1950s, today, or who-knows- 
when.
When the Greek organizations 
pick shows as diverse as Hee Haw, 
a “Tribute to Elvis Aaron Presley,” 
and “Aladdin,” the basis forjudg­
ing can become difficult. To com­
bat a preference for a certain type 
of performance, this year’s judges 
came from a pretty diverse back­
ground, too. Dan Fallon, repre­
sentative from the Benedum Cen­
ter, and Bonnie Markowitz, kin­
dergarten teacher at the Jewish 
Community Center in Squirrel 
Hill, were the two judges brought 
in from the community. Two oth­
ers, Vera Lampley and Stacy 
Scarfutti, were recruited from the 
Admissions Office, and Saul 
Markowitz brought in his talents 
as Director of Public Relations 
for CFA. A well-rounded group of 
judges, to be sure, but the impor­
tant thing is not who wins, but 
that the whole event is for a good 
cause.
The American Diabetes Asso­
ciation was founded in 1940 and 
is the leading voluntary health 
organization in this country
which is helping people deal 
with diabetes and its complica­
tions. Through educational pro­
grams for people with diabetes 
and their families, funding re­
search, and publishing the lat­
est information about diabetes, 
the Association hopes to be get­
ting closer to fulfilling their 
mission: “to prevent and cure 
diabetes and to improve the 
lives of all the people affected 
by diabetes,” as stated in the 
Greek Sing program.
All those who participated in 
Greek Sing this year are help­
ing the American Diabetes As­
sociation get a little closer to 
that goal.

---------------------------------------------------

L2The Tartan • Carnegie Mellon • 21 March 1994
War in Sarajevo 
captured on film
By TONYA RADO
Tartan Assistant Features Editor
An eight-year-old boy held up his 
passport, grinning. He had his pass 
out of a city of death and destruction; 
he had a pass out of Sarajevo.
Edward Serotta, a freelance photog­
rapher and writer who specializes in 
Jewish themes, captured a heroic res­
cue of 300 Jews, Croats, Serbs, and 
Muslims by the American Jewish Joint 
Distribution Committee. At the same 
time, Serotta portrayed the harsh re­
alities of war, as well as the unity of 
the Jewish communities, through his 
photographs and anecdotes.
Images of cemeteries, of the marked 
graves of Jewish children, loomed be­
fore the audience as Serotta lectured 
on the history of Yugoslavia Thursday 
afternoon in the Donner Reading 
Room. He described Yugoslavia as “a 
state created around a national myth,” 
a myth formed by Tito, who managed 
to keep the country unified. As he 
spoke, he showed a courtyard of the 
library ofthe University of Sarajevo in
1989.
His next slide was the library of the 
University of Sarajevo today — in 
nibble, completely destroyed. The once 
beautiful city that hosted the 1984 
Winter Olympic Games is in ruins 
with no running water or electricity. A 
banner hung, reading, “Warning, 
Sniper.”
Serotta’s pictures show the inno­
cent who suddenly found themselves 
homeless and chased from their cities
— some without their parents, some 
without their children, some maimed, 
some desperate to maintain their dig­
nity.
One photograph showed a woman 
looking straight into the camera, pride 
beaming off her face. Serotta recalled 
that when he asked many ofthe women 
what he could give them, they would
tell him that they wanted makeup. He 
said that they took great.pride in their 
dress and looks.
Caught in the midst, the Jewish 
people pull together to help out in any 
way they can: The Jewish Committee 
organizes volunteers who give out food 
and free prescriptions and run special 
programs for children.
With no international telephone 
system, the Jewish Committee runs a 
two-way radio, collects messages from 
families overseas, and phones them to 
their relatives.
They also have a medical team that 
often braves stray bullets to make 
house calls. Serotta believes the war 
shows “the impotency of the post-cold 
war West and the solidarity of neigh­
bors helping neighbors and of friends 
helping friends.”
Serotta’s explanation for traveling 
to a country in such volatile times was 
that he had been to Yugoslavia before 
and felt a great affection for the Yugo­
slavian people. He thought it was un­
ethical not to return to Sarajevo when 
times were bad. He joked, “It was 
either bullets, or classic Jewish guilt.”
Serotta went to photograph the last 
Jews in Eastern Europe, approxi­
mately 1200 in all, and discovered 
that no one wanted to be described as 
the last Jew. A people who survived 
the Holocaust saw a new genocide, 
and pulled together to survive and 
help others to survive. They opened 
their synagogues to Serbs, Jews, Mus­
lims, Croats, or to anyone who needed 
help. His photographs tell the heroics 
of people who would like to be any­
thing but heroes and who wish for the 
end of the killing.
Serotta plans to publish a new book 
as an extention of his last book, Out of 
the Shadows. His presentation was 
sponsored by Hillel, a Jewish organi­
zation which serves both Pitt and CMU 
students.
Jazz history sets tone of Spirit Fashion Showl
By KATHY WRIGHT
Tartan Contributing Editor
Rosena Hill, a first year music major, 
kicked off the 1994 Spirit Fashion Show 
with a beautiful rendition of the “Black 
National Anthem.” This helped to set 
the mood for the show, which focused 
more on African- American history 
and less on fashion.
The theme for this year’s fashion 
show was Saxy, Horny Fashions... “A 
Jazz Experience. "This seemingly bad 
pun actually proved to be an interest­
ing theme throughout the show, be­
cause it allowed for some thought 
about the historical development of 
jazz and its growth into the modem 
music of today. Spirit chose “to recog­
nize jazz, not only for its sexy beats 
and its improvisational horns, but 
also as a major part of African-Ameri­
can culture and its contributions to 
the world,” as written in the program.
Before the fashion show began, 
Micah Gaugh, a senior music major, 
charmed the audience with his saxo­
phone, accompanied by Cheron 
Cowan on drums. Their improvisa­
tional style of energetic rhythms got 
the show off to an impressivestart. It 
would have been nice to have hot live 
jazz during the show as well, but 
Gaugh did not return until intermis­
sion when he played with his group 
40 Stories.
The fashion show started beautifully 
as the models danced down the runway 
to the beats of West African jazz. Their 
attire mostly incorporated traditional 
fabrics into contemporary fashions, al­
though some of the most stunning out­
fits were entirely traditional of Africa. 
The couples in coordinating outfits won 
the audience’s approval. This segment 
was also highlighted by the appearance 
of two adorable children from the Role 
Models program.
The next series of fashions were pre­
sented in a vignette of a New Orleans 
jazz club. Janine Snetter, a junior biol­
The second half of the fashion shoj 
was a little slower. There was a focus o j 
love in Paris and how jazz and clothini 
can inspire romance. From Paris thera 
was a move to the “neighborhood,” wherj 
the models acted out a typical streei
ogy major, caught everyone’s attention 
in a short iridescent purple jacket dress.
She appropriately played the seductress 
in the club, stealing the men, also fash­
ionably dressed, away from their dates.
Nicole Sims, a sophomore H&SS stu­
dent, introduced the lingerie segment of scene of attitude, basketball, and womeil
dissing the guys. The fashion; 
in this segment mostly reflected 
current day fashions of grungej 
and hooded sweatshirts. From 
the neighborhood to the cityl 
work fashions were presentee 
next.
The next segment was not ti 
be missed because it featured] 
black leather, and lots of i 
The women danced in Janetl 
Jackson-style tight leather! 
showing off their great bodiesf 
and using men as sex toys. This! 
was the steamiest, sweatiest! 
sexiest scene ... only to bel 
topped off by the most innocent} 
segment of white formal wear.l 
The models definitely showed! 
themselves in a different light! 
of traditional romance and pu-1 
rity.
The most distinctive aspectl 
of the Spirit fashion show was I 
the way the fashions were pre- J 
sented. The models did not! 
spend as much time walking! 
up and down a runway, instead I 
they acted out scenes to show 1 
how and where the clothes could possi-1 
bly be worn. This approach made the I 
show light-hearted and fun, but it would I 
have been nice to have some seriousness j 
about presenting the fashions. The mas-1 
ters of ceremony never mentioned where} 
the fashions came from or how much I 
they cost. The success of the show can- J 
not be denied, though, especially for the j 
variety of fashions.
The 1994 Spirit Fashion Show came to | 
a powerful end as Hill sang again, en­
lightening the audience with a version j 
of “Harlem Blues.” The beauty of her 1
Kathy Wright/Tartan Contributing Editor
the show with a sensual modern dance 
interpretation of sex and intimacy. The 
show heated up as the models came out 
in various lacy gowns and teddies, danc­
ing on chairs and showing off more than 
just lingerie.
The rest of the first half of the fashion 
show moved fairly quickly through the 
’70s and ’90s, with several comparisons, 
which were almost scary because of how 
similar these decades actually are. The 
most interesting parts of this segment 
were the musical transitions that traced 
the development of dance styles as well 
— very comedic.voice is not something easily forgotten.
More exhilarating than Lillehammer...
Physics Olympics experiments with community, fun]
By FRANK MICHELS
Tartan Acting Features Editor
How many ping pong balls does 
it take to fill the Empire State 
Building? This was the tie-break­
ing question for first place in 
Saturday’s First Annual Physics 
Olympics, which took place in 
DH 2315. Despite the scientific 
merit of the Physics Olympics’ 
seven events, participants in this 
competition found the ‘fun’ in 
using the fundamental laws of 
. physics.
Besides answering six other 
such “orders of magnitude” ques­
tions, competitors in the Physics 
Olympics had to build a paper 
tower and an aluminum barge, 
play Battleship with subatomic 
particles, sharpshoot with lasers, 
race helium balloons, and even 
demonstrate physics principles 
with two pieces of fruit.
The Physics Olympics was 
sponsored by the Society of Phys­
ics Students (SPS), a student or­
ganization that serves as the liai­
son between the Physics Depart­
ment and students interested in 
physics. Martti Sloan, a sopho­
more physics major and member 
of SPS, said that nine teams of 
four students signed up to par­
ticipate in the Physics Olympics.
“We wanted to do something 
*that would bring physics majors 
together, as well as develop an 
interest in physics to people who 
aren’t physics majors,” said Sloan.
• Helmut Vogol, a professor in 
the Physics Department, is the 
advisor for SPS. He said that the 
Physics Olympics is “a start into 
other activities that give physics 
students a sense of community.” 
According to Vogol, the Physics 
Olympics showed how ridicu­
lously simple equipment can be 
used to demonstrate important 
physics principles.
Seven teams totaling 26 stu­
dents actually competed in the 
events, including two graduate 
teams and two freshman teams.
For each of the events, the teams 
were ranked from first to sev­
enth. The team with the lowest. 
score placed first.
The Physics Heptathlon
Fermi Questions: Enrico 
Fermi was the Italian physicist 
who is most famous as the major 
contributor in the Manhattan 
Project that built the first atomic
A correct answer for each ques­
tion was 10 points. An answer 
that was off by one power was 
worth eight points, an answer off 
by two powers was six points, and 
so forth. For your curiosity, the 
six questions with their answers 
are listed in the sidebar on the 
right.
Tower: To succeed in this 
event, a team had 10 minutes to 
build a tower with the tallest
Bassem El-Dasher/Tartan Photographer
Freshman biology major Albert Kim, freshman chemistry major Windsor 
Chu, and sophomore IM major irir Toska of the team “ChuToBriKIm” 
competed In the Tower event during Saturday's Physics Olympics. The 
object of this event was to build the tallest tower from 20 index cards.
bomb. According to Sloan, Fermi 
liked to ask “orders of magni­
tude” questions, which required 
estimated answers to a power of 
10. For example, how many hu­
man heart beats occur on Earth 
each year?
Each team answered the same 
six orders of magnitude questions.
height and the smallest base. The 
tower could only be built with 20 
standard-size index cards and two 
feet of masking tape. Each team 
was also supplied with a pair of 
scissors and a ruler.
After the 10 minutes, the struc­
ture had to stand by itself for 10 
seconds, after which the tower’s
height and perimeter were mea­
sured. The score was calculated 
by dividing the height by the pe­
rimeter, and the highest score 
ranked first.
Barge: Teams were given just 
one square piece of aluminum 
foil with which to construct a 
barge which would support the 
greatest weight without sinking 
in water. Teams had 10 minutes 
to build the barge, after which 
pennies were placed on the barge 
one by one as weights. The team 
members loaded the barge while 
it was floating in water. The team 
could not, however, let the barge 
sink.
The score for each team was 
the number of pennies that the 
barge supported. If the barge 
sank, the team got a score of one- 
third of the pennies that were in 
the barge. The first place team’s 
barge supported 71 pennies.
Coulomb: This game would 
better be called Atomic Battle­
ship. Each team had to find five 
positive and negative particles 
located in an eight-by-eight grid 
by shooting the least number of 
positive, negative, and neutral 
particles into the grid. No, CMU 
does not have a nuclear accelera­
tor hidden in the steam tunnels; 
this event was done on paper.
In this game, a particle could 
either hit another particle, de­
flect in another direction by ei­
ther attraction or repulsion, re­
flect back from the original direc­
tion, or miss all particles and 
travel straight through the grid. 
Team members had to use logic 
to determine the possible loca­
tion of each particle.
Scoring for this event was based 
on the number of particles found 
and the number of particles “shot” 
into the grid.
Laser: Each team was required 
to arrange four mirrors in an area 
in such a way that a laser would 
hit a target and maximize the 
playing area. In other words, the 
longer the laser’s path was to the
target, the better the score.
Kurt Miller, a sophmore phys­
ics major and member of SPS, 
said that to maximize the area, 
the laser must bounce off the 
mirrors as many times as pos­
sible.
Scoringwas based on the length 
of the laser’s path, which was 
measured with a string. The team 
with the longest laser length 
placed first.
Balloons: This event was a 
balloon race that favored the tor­
toise; the goal for each team was 
to make a helium balloon with a 
string and paper clips rise as 
slowly as possible.
Each team was given five min­
utes to determine the balloon’s 
upward force by using at most 
three paper clips in two trial runs. 
Then, the team calculated the 
number of paper clips required to 
slow down the helium balloon,
assembled them, and gave them | 
to the judge.
The judge attached the paper I 
clips to the balloon, and released | 
it. The time in seconds from re- j 
lease to the time it reached the 
finish line determined the team’s j 
score. If the balloon did not rise, 
then the team did not receive any i 
points.
When the results were tallied, 
all seven teams had received zero ; 
points, and therefore every team 
got a first place rank in this event.
Fruity Physics: Each team 
was given two pieces of fruit, i 
knife, and a string. The teams j 
were each given seven minutes to j 
create a written list of physics ; 
principles that the group must j 
demonstrate, and five minutes j 
afterward to demonstrate them.
For example, gravity was dem- i 
onstrated simply by dropping the 
Please see OLYMPICS, page L3
Orders of Magnitude Questions
as used in the Physics Olympics
1. How many letters are there in a physics
book?
2. How many kilograms of water does the 
world’s population drink In a year?
3. How many grains of rice are eaten in China 
in a day?
4. How long, in days, will it take to burn a 
candle five miles high?
5. in dollars, how much money is in a stack of 
$100 bills as high as Mt. Everest?
6. McDonald’s hassold about 50 billion burgers. 
How many cows were slaughtered?
¿01 (9 :6ot (s :£ot (p (z '-Lox (t yyavs.aoM

---------------------------------------------------

The Tartan • Carnegie Mellon • 21 March 1994L3
Graduation preparations 
strike fear into columnist
Alien in Residence
by Micki Kochanskyj
Like most seniors, I got my big 
fat graduation packet in the mail 
this week. Now, I can’t speak for 
anyone else, but it excited the 
heck out of me. I read it from 
cover to cover, taking in all the 
special events, diploma cer­
emony locations, robing stations, 
and procession routes. I looked 
over all the graduation attire 
reminders. (Tassels to the left, 
then to the right!) I paid special 
attention to the cap and gown 
ordering details.
Like many foreign students, I 
have no prior experience with 
this sort of thing. One doesn’t 
graduate, per se, in England. 
One simply leaves school and 
doesn’t return. All this ceremony 
is new to me. I have questions 
that raise quite a few eyebrows 
aroundhere. Does the gown close 
all the way down the front or 
just at the top? What is it made 
of? How long is it? Can I be ex­
pected to trip over it as I stumble 
down the processional aisle in 
the main tent? How on Earth do 
you keep that cap on your head?
Why do we go to so much 
trouble to dress the right way 
on this auspicious occasion? Be­
cause graduation is a rite of 
passage loaded with symbolic 
meaning. Yes, there is more to 
this elaborate get-up than 
meets the eye. Ever wondered 
why master’s students have 
half sleeves and doctorate stu­
dents have full sleeves? As a 
master’s degree was tradition­
ally a teaching degree, masters 
needed the freedom afforded 
by half sleeves to write on black­
boards, shuffle papers,and so 
on. Doctors, on the other hand, 
being lecturers, would rather 
keep their forearms warm.
That’s not all. Never having 
attended a graduation cer­
emony, I have no idea what 
happens at one. I’m relying on 
my more experienced class­
mates to guide me through the 
big day without incident.
I have heard it said that 
graduation is not for you, it’s 
for your parents. In this age of 
dysfunctional and extended 
families, this can be quite an 
undertaking. I, for example, 
have more parents than the 
five free sets of graduation an­
nouncements allow for. Ah! You 
say, but that means more 
graduation goodies for you! Not 
so! My English relatives have 
no idea that it is customary to 
send the lucky and exhausted
graduate off into the world with 
armfuls of cash.
More alarming than the pros­
pect of coordinating hostile 
groups of parents and step-par­
ents, committing a commence­
ment garb faux pas, or even of 
life after CMU, are the remain­
ing weeks of the semester and 
the deadlines this crucial period 
incur. So much for springbreak.
As I sit back and enjoy these 
last months of my undergradu­
ate career, I find myself looking 
around trying to take in every­
thing about this place that I 
may not have appreciated be­
fore. Walking across the Cut, I 
make a special effort to check 
the Fence for new announce­
ments, take advantage of week­
end movies at DH 2210, and 
even look upon my friends with 
something akin to nostalgia.
Last-semester seniors run on 
fumes. Give them a wide berth, 
for this is the time those all 
important envelopes from 
graduate schools find their way 
into our mailboxes. Sometimes 
the news is good; sometimes it’s 
bad. Treat us with care, for soon 
it will be you.
Micki Kochanskyj, senior 
staffwriter and senior creative 
writing major, is busy consum­
ing all the artificial stimulants 
she can get her hands on in order 
to meet those scary deadlines.
Low-calorie knowledge 
diverts local apocalypse
Askew, No Shoes
by Matt Messner
The ever literary-conscious 
Highlander Cafe has coined anew 
verb which we should all be aware 
of — “to parsley.” Once in my 
youth I was parslied, .and I’ve 
never reacted to that little fluffy 
vegetable in the same way since. 
Noticing parslied potatoes on the 
menu nearly forced me back into 
counseling. I’m okay now, though. 
Really.
Linguists note that “time” al­
ready functions as a verb and “to 
rosemary” is a suitable opening 
for a friendly letter. Of the grand- 
unified parsley-sage-rosemary- 
and-thyme theory, only the sage 
is yet to be proved. One would 
imagine that this would require 
immense wisdom and judgment.
Gratuitous paragraph of sta­
tistical data. I sat atop my see­
saw and surveyed the world be­
low: 67 percent no, 43 percent 
yes, -10 percent arithmetic. Re­
cent polls indicate that the Hous­
ing Room-Draw staff know more 
emacs commands than the aver­
age computer science student. 
Thanks to the “Room Draw Up­
Local weather unique but awkward
Horror Stories
by Tom Harper
Just last Wednesday we were enjoying 
spring-like weather. People were out playing 
Ultimate Frisbee, walking around, and do­
ing lots of other outside activities. People 
thought the horrendous winter weather was 
long gone.
Then on Friday morning I looked out my 
window and saw about a ton of snow falling 
down. For those who wondered about why 
and how such an occurrence could have pos­
sibly taken place, welcome to Pennsylvania 
climate.
Pennsylvania’s climate is the weirdest in 
the world. Unlike other climates where you 
can describe winters and summers with a 
few words, Pennsylvania’s climate is in a 
class by itself:
Southwest U.S.: Hot and dry.
South U.S.: Hot and humid.
New England: Cool summer, cold winter.
Pacific Northwest: Temperate and rainy.
Pennsylvania: Hmmm.... well... it depends.
Before the terrible winters of last year and 
the year before we had some mild winters —
the temperature barely went below freezing 
and there was hardly any snow. No white 
Christmas, no sledding in the backyard, no 
snowball fights, no snow angels, no nothing 
except finishing raking leaves — although 
we did have fun making these huge piles of 
leaves and jumping right in them.
A few summers ago, the temperature went 
barreling up to 101 degrees and the news had 
a heat stroke counter similar to their death 
toll counters. For a while after that, sum­
mers never got up to 90 degrees.
I was explain­
ing all this to my 
roommate once 
(who is from Ari­
zona).
Me: “It got up 
to 102 here once.
Bet you could do 
that standing on 
your head.”
Brian: “How 
about 122?”
Me: “Show-off.”
When I went through Basic in South Caro­
lina, we were told to drink at least a few 
gallons of water every day. On Graduation 
Day we were told to stand perfectly still in 
formation. It was 95 degrees and there was a 
wall of bugs in the air. Big bugs; bugs that 
love a hot, humid climate.
The one redeeming aspect of Pennsylvania 
climate is that none of those huge bugs I saw 
has the guts to rough it out in this weather. 
What kind of bugs do we have here, anyway?
Unlike other climates where 
you can describe winters and 
summers with a few words, 
Pennsylvania’s climate is in a 
class by itself.
OLYMPICS, from page L2
fruit. Some teams demonstrated 
collisions with their feet, and 
other teams were a little more 
creative, such as in showing the 
physics behind a string’s ability 
to cut a piece of fruit in half.
Teams were given two points 
for each demonstration, three 
points for each principle that was 
creative and unique, and one 
point for each demonstration that 
was flawed or did not work.
Closing Ceremonies
After all of the rankings were 
tallied, the two teams from Theta 
Xi were tied for first. To break the 
tie, they were asked how many 
ping pong balls were needed to 
fill the Empire State Building. 
The team “TX Bad Equations,” 
answered correctly; about 1010 
ping pong balls are needed to fill 
the Empire State Building.
“TX Bad Equations” consisted 
of sophomore mechanical engi­
neering major Jamie Belliveau, 
senior biology major Tony 
DeRoss, and senior ECE major
Ray Ziesse. They won four tickets The second place team was 
to the Carnegie Science Center “Neggies Boyz,” the only team 
and the OmniMax Theater. with titles. Junior civil engineer-
ingmajors Mike “Captain” 
Negler, Matt “Co-Captain” 
Kane, and Mike “Butt- 
Boy” Mendick, and junior 
computer science major 
Kevin “Water-Boy” Boyd 
won tickets to the 
Carnegie Science Center.
One of the freshman 
teams, “Do Not Back Up, 
Severe Tire Dammage,” or 
simply, “Tire Dammage,” 
placed third, also winning 
Carnegie Science Center 
tickets. The members of 
“Tire Dammage” are com­
puter science majors 
Akshat Bhatnagar, 
Saleem Mukhtar, Anton 
Staaf, and Todd Turco.
The other freshman 
team, WS3, won a draw­
ing for a free T-shirt do- 
Bassem El-Dasher/Tartan Photographer nated from the Carnegie 
“Neggies Boyz” member Matt Kane, a Shoppe, 
junior civil engineering major, crushes an “It was totally for fun,” 
orange in the Fruity Physics event as said Ziesse of “TX Bad 
junior CS major Kevin Boyd looks on. Equations.” “We tackled
date,” my entire hall knows how 
to forward and reverse-search. 
In the 1940s, 25 percent of rural 
American males practiced besti­
ality. Steven Perkins ran in ec­
stasy towards the ice cream van 
on several occasions.
Hear ye, hear ye. Friday, the 
18th of March, was National 
Watch-Beep Day. Revel in this 
celebration of technology, time, 
and conformity by turning on the 
hourly chime on your watch. It is 
impossible to express the warmth 
one feels in a tiny envelope of 
time where each watch gloriously 
cries out the passing of the hour, 
where each of our brethren in­
stinctively look toward their wrist 
in affirmation, where irritation 
visibly grows on your lecturer’s 
face. Don’t be left out in the ana­
log world of sunsets and fading 
dreams — modernize and be one 
of us.
Barefoot reporting would like 
to publicly introduce a new staff 
member in our schizoid team, Zen 
Askew. Zen’s troubled mind is 
awash with ancient wisdom pu- 
reed and showered with whipped 
cream. It’s low-calorie knowledge 
that can be sucked through a 
straw; no brain is left out. Look 
for him in the askew fortune- 
cookie server.
The moon dithered overhead, 
and the wind rustled at 8,000 Hz 
monaural. It seemed as if the 
universe had nearly given up at 
playing reality; I was surprised
the sky wasn’t monochrome. I 
walked toward Skibo along the 
track, observing the polygon- 
clipped and phong-shaded hori­
zon. Occasionally the soft, pen- 
umbral shadows seemed a little 
harsh, and I began to feel wire­
frame. Then I saw it. A clear box, 
placed in such plain sight on the 
corner of the building that it 
would be safe to assume no one 
would ever notice it. Inside were 
two wheels wound in tape. The 
fates were replaced during the 
industrial era with the acknowl­
edgment that tape holds the uni­
verse together far better than 
thread. (Most of the world hasn’t 
upgraded to duct tape yet, how­
ever.)
Anyhow, it appeared as if the 
squirrel of the hill, frustrated with 
life, was trying to turn this sector 
into utter void. Luckily, the tape 
held long enough for me to stop 
this creature’s gnawing, hand him 
a Gideon’s Bible, and make him 
see the light. Of course, I hid in 
the shadows to avoid the light 
myself. And that is how our local 
apocalypse was diverted. You can 
never be to careful.
Matt Messner (mmdm+),a 
freshman CITstudent, twirls atop 
the trees and dances with the sky. 
Finger askew@escher.pc.cc.cmu. 
edu to waste time. Ed is no longer 
employed by the Highlander Cafe. 
Legalize marijuana. Parsley 
lawyers.
We have flies, gnats, bees, wasps, hornets, 
and mosquitoes. The makers of those bug 
shields for pickups hate us for our climate.
Has anyone seen the birds that were kind 
of “stuck” here and wandering through the 
snow? What a wake up call for them!
Bird: “Where’d all the green stuff go?”
Me: “Ha ha! Look at the bird still here after 
all this snow!”
Bird: “Go to hell.”
The squirrels were out foraging for food 
when the snow hit on Friday. That’s kind of 
neat how they 
are digging in 
the snow for 
whatever they 
have buried. 
The only thing 
missing is a 
voice-over like 
on those PBS 
nature shows. 
(George Page 
rules!)
This Sunday morning, there’s hardly a 
trace of what was dumped all over us by 
Mother Nature two days ago. The sun is back 
out and there is not a cloud in the sky, and 
dammit, I was looking forward to “traying.”
Tom Harper, a freshman MCS student, is 
going to take advantage of the winter weather 
equipment sales and is going to learn to 
snowboard. Right now, the only thing miss­
ing is snow. Wait a few days, though ...just 
wait. Ha ha ha.Teams rise to higher order in Physics Olympics
out of textbook, real world prob­
lems. Something like this should 
be done in the classroom.”
“This was a giant success,” said 
Fred Horwitz, a senior physics 
major and SPS member. “Every­
body had a lot of fun ... I’m glad 
to see that we even got a tie.” 
Horwitz said that the only 
drawback to the Physics Olym­
pics was the underrepresentation 
of women. Only two women com­
peted in the Physics Olympics: 
freshman CIT student Jenna 
Sweterlitsch and graduate phys­
ics student Elaine Brunsman.
“I’d like to encourage more 
women to join [SPS],” said 
Horwitz. He said that the next 
meeting of SPS will be open to 
anybody interested in physics.
Horwitz said that SPS will be 
sponsoring more events in the 
future. ‘There is a solid founda­
tion for this to be an annual 
event,” he said.
The Physics Olympics was 
funded in part by the Office of 
Student Activities. Teams were 
charged a fee of $12 to participate 
in the Physics Olympics.
Awards recognize service, success
By SHANNON GIBNEY
Tartan Staffwriter
Each year four CMU seniors are selected as Student Service 
Award winners, due to their exemplary balance of academics, 
community service, extracurricular activities, and representa­
tion within the student body. These students are chosen by staff, 
faculty, juniors, and seniors, and must advance through several 
steps of selection and be successfully evaluated by several 
groups on campus in order to receive this award.
The first level of selection involves faculty, staff, and students 
who must fill out a nomination form, which describes the 
nominee’s activities throughout the career at CMU, and why the 
student should be considered for the award. Additionally, up to 
three letters of substantiation from members of the campus 
community, other than the nominator, must be submitted.
After all nominations are turned in, a committee composed of 
Student Alumni Relations Council (SARC) members and an 
alumni advisor screens the applicants and selects 16 of the 
nominees for final assessment by the Alumni Awards Commit­
tee. This final committee who picks the four winners consists of 
alumni leaders and the director of alumni relations.
The four winners and their parents are invited to the Alumni 
Awards Banquet, which usually occurs at Commencement, or 
during one of the other senior activities during that week.
“The Service Award is the same one that our alumni partici­
pants receive; a total of 13 of these are given out. These 13 award 
winners, combined with the four student winners, form a pretty 
select group,” said Dana Wettergreen, associate director of 
Alumni Relations. “Both the alumni and student award winners 
are listed on the commencement program, and usually in the 
alumni magazine,” she said.
The deadline for nominations for the first part of the selection 
process is Wednesday, March 23. These nominations should be 
turned into the Alumni Relations office and are inclusive for 
substantiations from staff, faculty, and students.
PITTSBURGH 
HARRISBURG «PHILADELPHIA 
NEW YORK CITY
TORQNTO.CANADA
^ROCHESTER. NY
^SYRACUSE. NY 
CORTLAND. NY
PITTSBURGHo——CARLISLE 
SHlPPENSBURGp^^ YORKl 
CHAMBERSBURG, 
HAGERSTOWN. MO'
WASHINGTON. DC (5 \ 
TO ALL POINTS SOUTH
'HILAOELPHIA 
KING OF PRUSSIA
Trearsuyn
1 -800-444-2877
Capital^

---------------------------------------------------

rusons
...ANDóOTHB FLYlHe 
ÓQUIP.REL WAS ¿UgDUEp.P&lfOI FRÔM the -îtucsoî 
¡p! UM10M... J
THE ONE HOOTIN6
¿.IKEA GlßSöKl
> ANY
HISJUTN.Wi
r UHYISWS AAsr PANEL ALL2\ProNE?Hot») COMENT 
HAVENT6EEN 
GIVÊ'N A MEPAX-
COOD QUESTION
7TIEART15T GOT 
CARRI ED A-JAV.ANY OTHERS?ANt> GIAc «aoesriow?
© March 1994By RAMSEY HONG
BEEPBttPBEEPBEEPBEt
U WHATfk&ife
Hr THERE’S 
^A TORPEDO 
r HOMING IN 
ON US.' WE’RE 
S-ONNA PIE1.!?3NE FUR» Mpi/T'OA W’cKiNfrï
tJhWTeWb\TORPÇpO*l
Patr Pasn gPign/Tho/potel
BBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBOBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBB
COURS, 3 GOIA 
Ha EANN Swb 
RwvAEGUfdm111
NOT NOW.
NOT NOWf
THANKS£pKVt>0S2.:LE°‘t'-vii’3;ianart.->&-G-APK4N.
TO BE CONTINUED...
bcj t.Mve ÜHtVE
/ CANT HELP BUT Nonce 
YOOR RAMPA6E OMLY PESTRôYÊP 
tuay rwN6i ôw campus-..
¦SKlßO... 
WARNER t*UL...
THE0KAN6E THIN6 
T. pfioioroFioEaw...
What’s a Wendell?by Matt Goldberg
by_H. Canid \ncg
^Whochikc Keck
¦ 3/lg 'faLXndLtÿS
IVE GOT THE RADIO OH. SOVieil WEAR. GET REM*, AM WAS. THOUGH.
TIME TO A IS IT A SHOW GET UP, DM ? DID THEV CALVIN. / CLOSE TUE 
SCHOOLS?
gn ofsppro frpocma gArr sMuc lsc )sprc md lp mp 
vS ¡WU, ,N¡SvN­y jFORGOT SESTERDAS. IF SCHOOLS OPEN, m IN kTw U­NIkjS“ ””x
SUDDENLS 
I FEEL 
EXTREMELYzSjTwTNIJa
AETHERDEATHBED
CONVERSION.
MOM SMS THE 
ROADS ARE PRETTi 
CLEAR, SO SCHOOL 
WILL PROBABLE 
OPEN AGAIN 
, lN¡N­­Nv . ,
HOH I WISH I'D DONE MS MATH HOMEWORK INSTEAD OF PLASING OJTSIDE ALL -___, DM. ______
...OR I W\SU ID DOUE \T BEFORE DINNER ...OR AFTER DINNER... OR INSTEAD OF WATCHING TV ... OR BEFOREKSe“ KIU .Nv its UNN TWUS
A DAS CAN REAUS SLIP WHEN SOU'RE DELIBERATELY AVOIDING WHAT SOU'RE SUPPOSED TO DO.
sM ,WD U,S. YIJU W..NI.qSe¦WE SCHOOLS ARE CLOSED/ ITS A SNOW DAN ! 
MHEEEEEEE/
lMr- MKpOl rOf-t sp) op1 fM9 mp opOz spdc)pz- W.e xpO )p9l 7cl gd lzppKrc t 0ECv)^
RRINNGGGGR\GHT, BUT THERE'S OVER TWO FEET OF St-toW THAT REQUIRES OUR IMMEDIATE AND UNDIVIDED ATTENTION.
FIRST THINGS [ MATH WILL FIRST J STILL BE THERE WHEN p\ THE SNOW
_ t ¿ii V melts. .
ou. I WISH ID DONE MS MATH HOMEWORK / NOW THE TEACHER'S GOING TO COLLECT IT AND I'M AS GOOD AS-— dead.' y
WHS D\D I DO TTAIS TO MVSELF ?/1 EVEN HAD AN EXTRA DAS TO GET IT DONE.' INSTEAD, I GCOFED OFF AND NCW I'M GOING TO PAS FOR IT.' . .
BOV. L’VE LEARNED MH LESfcNi THIS DAM HNS BEEN NOTHING KIU e­SWea W.e T qNIjeABS
AVOIDED \T ALL/ HERE SHE 
COMES.' GOODBYE, WORLD/
ILL COLLECTTsU5lE(QUI^, 
YOUR HOMEWORK AM I SITTING 
TOMORROW, I IN A BEAM 
CUSS. J OF LIGHT?
eN.U JNI U,T.y vec9•p3 lsgo dpzc gn upO mgm A5pOz dMls Moog79dc9l ngzola op gl )Mo9l sM97g97 x pucz sNI­ scMm ; ””””
I'M A PRACTICAL MAN, HOBBES, ï DONT WASIE TIME THINKING AËOJT MPOTHETKPA. SITUATIONS. I DEAL WITH THE WORLD HERE AND MOW. ,__^
AND THE INCONTROVERTIBLE FACT \5 THAT I'M OJTSIDE \N THE SNOW ! WATS REALVTS/ THAT'S WHAT I THINK ABOJT/
TOMORROWS A REALVTS ^ TCO. .
HYPOTHETICALLY, IT MIGHT BE ANOTHER SNOW DAS.
1 COULDNT BELIEVE ÏÏ7 THE BELL RANG JUST AS THE TEACHER WAS ABOUT TO
-------COLLECT THE
>£0 1 HOMEWORK 
t Q \ I DIDNT DO/
THATS TWICE SOU'VE BEEN SAVED AT THE LAST MINUTE.FROM NCtol ON, ITS WORKkS2N­S ;jSWJI­S .N---------v EXCEPTIONS ?
AND IT WIU_ BE Y No A PLEASURE I EXCEPT!^.
TO HAVE THAT \\_____HOMEWORK
done ; cmon, ¿3-*h **NAER cw.u at O RfwcvOf1
BUT I’VE 
LEARNED MY 
LESSOU 
THIS T\ME.

---------------------------------------------------

I3EHE3 ? HD ED 12 EPDEOa acsHCJ wSkS Eaena 
?CEU QEEÍ53 BEEP
cancsEnDH æœe___BEE EZJCQCË: QQIS 
E3BEL2H BBG3E QE3E S3DEE EH5EDH EEECD 
??? EQDE3Q EBEEB 
ISEEJ EEQ EE3B
Ena ESEH3BHBE 
SE3EE QEQB ???? 
C2QEG3 HEEE EEBfl 
?QBCH EIEE1E EEQC2

---------------------------------------------------

a/r
Mywrm;
cto£Pt/e
nowmBemi, ¿jve/tups... 
f ffRmUS mm Mirons. AmwwseiN "TY-p-dor 
mitt /
A VICTIM'S A VICTIM. ,iveeeen&^V&bti’x
iermsnxi
RlCy&pflw
aB.vl
TO TWIST OR NOT TO TWIST 
THAT WAS THE QUESTION
5*7 MMt"
l l 9 999 llll 9 99999999V
tujElXOMf 47 'VLk 
CRffiCHmYHiH
GVsBC'e29L ‘JHE'RE’
wf, epU (far) 
CH^s^cfEfaASK yoo, 
r«r RrADres, for i-o-rj 4/jc i-ors 
of MflKiYi
yoo pnO reln' ABoUT THE TOOTH 
v FAIfty. >
yoo ueo to me 
A&OUT SA*lTA 
*v cuaos.__3
you UEO To ln u
ABOUT THE EAST£A s. eUfOtOb. JAV'werM
2Theartn•CgiipW
AUD wfKr <0 
f'/iKE' 0jSex8SY
/.b HILLcP. E>UA)f>Y! J
AtJV>MOHEiJi 
? iJOuJ.y
r ycO UEO TO KE ABovJt lOuAT HAPPENED TO MyCdnr pRNgirnwC
a 00 UEO TO ME ABoibi THE s&GV/EB.fOME^T.
yOO UEO To KE
u meer HiSToGy.
iPiYwf -PLCASE - 
3EA)D-MWEV-
!»lpli\olol
A ’Mb) 'CALCULMOtf 
. rfLErHOfJ___.
''bjOO UEO TO 
fWE ABouT DR.U6S.
r yoo UEO TO ME ABoox My PftosPecxS Ss. |rO LIFE.. y
y00 UEO TO ME 
ASoJT SBC.kJELL... tfC-fRICD
fAif 'CCLCfHoAJ-..
If Did^'1 
k)ORK...
I’D LlKETOStESoU celn up hFrp eln mlfe UETO EXPLAIN A U, y o U R. 0THEJ2. ues,
/you lnR19,PAR.E'OT? L\EP \TO KE? ^
yoo UEO TO HE 
ABOUT THAT 005 
lOHO WAS ftvDliJG 
THAT OWEA.006.
KAFETERW;
Making sure not to disturb their quarry, nature lovers 
would approach the glass slowly, hoping to get a 
good look at the normally shy dessert animals.
The Sandwich Mafia sends Luigi to 
“sleep with the fourth-graders.”
‘It’s a cute trick, Warren, but the Schuberts 
are here for dinner, so just ‘abracadabra’ 
this thing back to where it was.”
by Mark Kantrowitz
In a laddergram, the object 
.is to transform the word 
on I he top rung into the 
word on the bottom rung 
in the least number of 
steps. During each step 
you must replace one 
letter in the previous word 
so that a new word is 
formed, but without 
changing the positions of 
the other letters. For 
example, we can change 
LEAD into GOLD in just 
three steps: LEAD. LOAD. 
GOAD. GOLD.
IIGHIMA'RELES^
Copyright 0 1994 by Mark Kontrowitz. All rights reserved.
qsnjq qsDjq ssojq s}Djq sqooq sqooq s:*oo} qqooq.
qsruq qsojq ssDjq S}Djq s:}.Doq s^ooq qqooq q^oorj.
qsnjq qsn\q qsn\s qsois q}o\s qqoos q^ooq.I’m sorry, Sidney, but I can no longer help you. 
These are not my people."
Not heeding his father’s advice to avoid eye 
contact, Joey makes a “contribution."Henry! Our party’s total chaos! No one knows when 
to eat, where to stand, what to ... Oh, thank God! 
Here comes a border collie!”
:woj6j3ppD\ st>]3aM siq} 03. (s)uo-i}n\os

---------------------------------------------------

DIVERSIONS
Alums to perform 
at Public Theater
By JASON ANDRACK3
Tartan Staffwriter
On Tueèday night at the Pittsburgh Public Theater George 
Bernard Shaw’s Arms and the Man begins its four week longrun. 
Arms and the Man is a romantic comedy that is set in Europe 
during one the continent’s many 19th century wars.
The protagonist, Captain Bluntschli, is a Swiss mercenary 
fighting for the Serbian army who falls in love with the beautiful 
Bulgarian woman Raina Petkoff, who saves his life. Problems 
arise since she is already betrothed to a Bulgarian officer, 
Sergius Seranoff. Most of the play’s laughs occur following the 
war, when thè three cross paths again resulting in many con­
frontations.
In addition to being Shaw’s first successful play, Arms and the 
Man should be of particular interest to those involved with CMU 
since there are three members of the company with ties to the 
university. The assistant director, Janet Mullen, is a CFA 
graduate.
Two current staff members also have positions in the produc­
tion end of Arms and the Man. The set designer, Dick Block, and 
the lighting designer, Cindy Limauro, are both associate profes­
sors in CFA’s Drama Department. This is especially impressive 
since this not a local production but a national touring company 
with Pittsburgh being only one of its stops.
The rest of cast boasts impressive credentials, too. The direc­
tor, Edward Gilbert, is an expert on George Bernard Shaw and 
has been the director of many productions at the famous Shaw 
Festival, held annually in Niagara-on-the-Lake. The role of 
Bluntschli is played by Sheridan Crist, a veteran of many 
regional Shakespeare festivals.
Funda Duyal, who plays Raina, also has vast theater credits, 
including the role of Cecile in Les Liasons Dangereuses , which 
also was performed at the Pittsburgh Public Theater. She also 
appeared on TV’s Law and Order and Saturday Night Live . Her 
other suitor, Seranoff, portrayed by Christian Baskous, also has 
credits off the stage with roles in the feature film Glory and was 
on CBS’s soap opera As the World Turns.
Arms and the Man opens April 8 and plays until May 1, but 
previews begin on March 31. Curtain times are 8 pm Tuesday 
through Saturday and Sundays at 2 pm and 7 pm.
Alchemist brings classic to CMU
By JOHN BIGGS
Diversions Co-Editor
It is hard for a rela­
tive unknown to 
break into the 
playwriting busi­
ness. This is a fact of 
life. And what better 
way to evidence this 
fact than through 
Ben Jonson’s The Al­
chemist. Jonson has 
been striving for no­
toriety since 1610.
I am, however, ex­
aggerating. The Al­
chemist, directed by 
master’s student Dan 
Green, is one of the 
lesser-known works 
of a great 17th-cen­
tury playwright 
whose writing, in my 
opinion, is in a league 
with the work of 
Shakespeare. This 
play is a comedy of 
errors in which three 
con artists dupe un­
suspecting villagers and are ru- Starring Christian Borle as the
ined in the end by their master’s wily Captain Face, Patrick Wil- 
retum. son a& Subtle the alchemist, and
Alison Mould 
as the unique 
Dol Common, 
this perfor­
mance was 
the best, and 
only, master’s 
thesis presen­
tation I have 
ever seen. The 
play was full 
of slapstick 
and wry hu­
mor. The ac­
tors, includ­
ing Mich-ael 
Hollick as 
Drugger and 
Jason Field as 
Surly, were 
wild onstage 
yet still main­
tained enough 
calm to spout 
the Old En­
glish dia­
logue.
The story was simple: 
Face, Subtle, and Dol become a 
trium-virate and rule over the 
foolish with a fist of comedy. 
Borle’s quick changes from Cap­
tain Face to Subtie’s hunched as­
sistant are as hilarious as they 
are admirable. All the players in 
thiá production acted with an un­
canny focus and still maintained 
the comedy throughout.
The set was designed as the 
interior of a large house, and to 
heighten this effect, it was sloped 
upward precariously, giving the 
stage a skewed perspective that 
matched Johnson’s skewed and 
hilarious story line.
Green has created a wonderful 
alternative to a dry thesis paper. 
His work breathes new life into 
an old classic and brings out the 
best of Ben Jonson’s work.
graphic courtesy of Christian Borle
Opera comes back
By DAN GOLDWASSER
Tartan Staffwriter
The first opera to be performed 
in the Studio Theater in 10 years 
will open March 22. Gian Carlo 
Menotti’s English opera The Old 
Maid and the Thief is set in the 
1940s in a small town in eastern 
Massachusetts. The inspiration 
for this play came when Menotti, 
who attended the Curtis School 
in Philadelphia, went to West 
Chester, Pennsylvania for spring 
break with a friend. He was 
shocked to hear what went on 
behind closed doors in this 
middle-class community. He de­
cided to parody these small-town 
secrets in an opera. In 1938, The 
Old Maid and the Thief was per­
formed live on NBC radio.
The characters in the play are 
the typical small town denizens; 
everyone knows everyone else and 
thus constricts their real feelings. 
They live their lives to suit an 
unwritten moral code, and many 
women become old maids. The 
story begins when a new man 
comes to town, making most of 
the women swoon. Menotti has 
commented, “It is amazing how 
an honest man could be made a 
thief.”
please See OPERA, page L9
Three band concert for GSO fundraiser
lliifí:
'.-Vi-''5 ¦¦ ' r $ «<•-
-
'1
/
Andrew McDermont/Tartan Photographer
Friday night at the Tilted Square, Squonk Opera, 40 Stories, and All Fall 
Down (formely Painted Mice) performed a benefit for the relocation of 
the graduate coffeehouse. Pictured above: All Fall Down featuring 
Shaun McDermott, Andrew Stellman, Sandy O'tool, and Ian Davis. 
Pictured Right: Micah Gaugh of 40 Stories.Andrew McDermont,/Tartan Photographer
Batman/Spawn crossover involves competing characters
Wow, my 20th edition of Comic Book 
Chronicles! I tried to get my editors to 
make this column foil embossed with 
:glow-in-the-dark ink and make people 
pay $2.50 for this issue ofThe Tartan, 
ibut they wouldn’t go for it.
Since I couldn’t do that to commemo­
rate my 20th column, I think you just 
have to live with a review of one of the 
most talked-about comics of the year: 
‘the DC edition of the Batman/Spawn 
crossover War Devil.
The creative team for this part of the 
crossover includes three writers: Doug 
Moench, Chuck Dixon, and Alan Grant, 
with art by Klaus Janson. It’s a pretty 
impressive team, even though the Im­
age end of the deal boasts a Frank Miller 
script and Todd McFarlene art. How­
ler, Image will probably release it re­
ally late just to mess things up, like they 
did with the Deathmate crossover last 
year.
Even though it was a $4.95 Prestige 
Format, I bought it because I figured I’d 
do something a little special for my 20th 
column. Actually that’s a He, but I like to 
rationalize spending money that I don’t 
have.
Enough of that and on to the impor­
tant stuff. li War Devil did nothing else, 
made me long for Bruce Wayne to be 
back under the real Batman cowl. This 
Was the first time since the “Breaking of 
the Bat” that I saw the detective side of 
the Dark Knight. It was quite refreshing 
compared to Azrael/Batman’s Punisher- 
Robocop approach. Fortunately, “Knight- 
Fall” is coming soon, so that wish should
- granted.
I think it’s really great that DC is
Comic Book Chronicles 
By Jason Andracki
being open-minded and letting Batman 
“hang around” with the competition’s 
characters like Spawn, Judge Dredd, 
Predator, and Grendel.
Despite having three writers, it was a 
pretty straightforw .trd plot. I figured 
Dixon, Grant, and Moench would make 
the story really twisted and hard to 
follow. That was definitely a wrong as­
sumption. I’m really glad this was an 
“Elseworlds” type of story rather than a 
book with some type of cosmic vortex 
that brings the two universes together.
Also, I don’t think I would have en­
joyed this book if it wasn’t for the histori­
cal backdrop of the Roanoke colony dis­
appearance. That mystery has always 
intrigued me since I read about in my 
“Story of America” cards that used to be 
advertised on TV and in magazines.
The villain of Croatoan was really great 
because he already had an origin that 
they didn’t have to take up much space 
explaining. Although they had never 
dealt with Spawn before, these three 
handled him surprisingly well.
I couldn’t tell that this was the first 
time these seasoned writers were writ­
ing about him. If Todd McFarlene ever 
wants another “Great Writer” series in 
Spawn or takes a break to do another 
crossover (hopefully! Spawn/Punisher, 
Spawn/Superman, Spawn/Incredible
Hulk—just kidding on that one) I think 
he should contact these guys.
After seeing McFarlene’s and even 
Greg Capullo’s clean and 
detailed artwork it was a 
little difficult to put up with 
Janson’s scratchy style. I 
almost didn’t buy the book 
because I was upset by the 
art for such an expensive 
book.
However, Janson did 
grow on me as he brought 
back memories of those 
early issues of The Pun­
isher.
Still I would have jpre- 
ferred a cleaner artist, but 
bad art has never stop-ped 
me from liking a book be­
fore.
Okay, the plot was great, 
but the art was weak, so 
there has to be something 
that made this book better 
than 50/50. That would 
definitely be the humor.
I knew there would be a 
lighter side to this story 
when, after Batman and 
Spawn attack each other 
as soon as they see each 
other (which everybody 
knew would happen),
Batman asks Spawn who 
he is and he answers, “Uh 
... You can call me Al.” The 
only thing that could have 
made that scene better 
would be if Janson placed 
Paul Simon and Chevy
Chase somewhere in that panel.
Probably my favorite part of the book 
involves Spawn somehow changing the
Batman meets up with Spqun in the first ever DC/Image crossover.
pentagram made from Gotham’s selec­
tive blackout to a smiley face. Not what' 
I’d expect from the usually brooding Al 
Simmons.
Well, DC’s end of the 
crossover was great (well 
worth the $4.95). I hope 
Image puts out a compa­
rable book
I wonder, does 
McFarlene’s ego feel a 
little deflated since there 
are all these people doing 
a great job with his cre­
ation? Too bad he owns 
the rights to Spawn, be­
cause if he didn’t, maybe 
he’d be a little more 
humble since he’s seen 
that he’s not the only one 
who can turn out good 
Spawn stories.
Well, that’s it for my 
20th column. Enjoy your 
spring break! Hopefully 
111 put a dent in that stack 
of unread comics that has 
accumulated this semes­
ter.
Jason Andracki is a 
freshman professional 
writing major who encour­
ages reader response to his 
column.
Send responses to: The
Tartan, Skibo Room 50, ©1994 DC Comics w r' • rdo Diversions, Comic
Book Chronicles.

---------------------------------------------------

STUDENT
 IIIWHIHII—IM
GOVERNMENTS,
Student Organization Budgets
Proposed by the Student senate Funding and Recognition Committee For the 1994-1995 Fiscal Year
1993-1994 Actual1994-1995 Proposed
OrganizationSubsidyBudgetSubsidyBudget
AB Coffeehouse$17850$17850$17930$17930
AB Concerts$38200$38200$41300$41300
AB Films$25650$48650$27925$47925
AB Lectures$17900$17900$18500$18500
AB Main$9850$17850$9875$17875
AB Special Events$12300$12300$12300$12300
ABTech$18750$20550$19250$21425
Activities Fair$4205$4705$4505$5005
Amnesty International$340$700$280$355
Asian Students Assoc$2592$5092$2596$5096
Ballroom Dance$2467$11405$1506$13506
Baseball Club$1908$2908$0$0
Brothers and Sisters$600$1250$0$0
Celtic Society$210$274$270$470
CIA$1525$4211$1108$4179
cmuOUT$1277$2377$1320$2420
Computer Club$2168$7668$447$7520
Cycling Club$350$490$300$500
Dancers’ Symposium$1614$2474$1374$2274
Doctors of Carnegie$809$859$884$934
EMS$2805$2905$0$0
Explorers Club$2191$2991$2088$2838
Fencing Club$1550$3250$1570$3270
Filmmaking Club$800$1400$875$1375
Forbes Gallery$6535$7535$5735$6735
Fringe$1975$5125$2125$5975
Gaming Club$0$0$150$260
Health & Fitness Fair$0$0$3847$3847
Flockey Club$7770$13520$7770$13770
International Relations Organization$400$4000$800$5290
Juggling Club$320$370$320$370
Kiltie Band$8144$8269$5358$7703
Mayur$1014$3439$3230$5680
Men’s Lacrosse$5673$8273$4069$5769
Oakland Review$2000$2250$2190$2440
Pioneers$1968$4468$620$3720
PSFB$34000$34000$30975$30975
Radio Club$1762$2352$1762$2352
Robotics Club$250$330$250$430
Rowing Club$26510$61002$26916$62008
Rugby Club$1670$2520$1670$2620
Scotch ‘n Soda$5200$8000$5630$8930
Scuba Club$1622$2572$0$0
Spirit$4793$13093$4907$11907
Student Government President$6484$6484$3850$3850
Student Government Treasurer$0$0$1525$1525
Student Pugwash$1380$6580$1200$5950
Student Senate$6820$6820$6560$6560
Student Union.$8365$10065$9548$11248
The Tartan$22000$140018$21000$138269
Thistle$25550$58800$25200$58700
Triathalon '¦$0$0$2523$4378
Ultimate Frisbee$1200$3600$1035$3435
Women’s Center$6020$6020$6050$6050
WRCT$40347$46647$46703$51703
Total$397683$630501$399315$637438
The Student Senate Funding and Recognition committee proposed these student organization 
budgets for the 1994-1995 fiscal year, which begins July 1, 1994.
The committee will distribute the proposed budgets to student senators on Tuesday, March 22, 
1994. Senators will have until 5 pm on Monday, April 4, 1994 to send specific objections via email to 
the funding and recognition committee, c/o Crystal Trexel at ct2f+budgets@andrew.cmu.edu.
If no senators object to a proposed budget, there will be no budget hearing for that organiza­
tion and Student Senate will accept the proposed budget. On the evening of April 4, the funding and 
recognition committee will contact organizations that must attend the budget hearings.
Budget hearings will begin on Tuesday, April 5, 1994 at 7 pm in the Wherrett Room, Skibo.
CEPNWPY
Note: The above budgets do not include Sweepstakes and 
Spring Carnival. Their 1994-1995 budgets will be 
determined in the fall.
Paid for by your Activities Fee.

---------------------------------------------------

The Tartan • Carnegie Mellon • 21 March 1994L9
fORTycortwa
ittIK"
Thursday, March 24
Breathless
Released in 1959, Breathless ranks withBirth of 
a Nation and Citizen Kane as one of the major 
turning points in the history of cinema. Director 
Jean-Luc Godard’s first feature film is a jazz-like 
improvisation on existential crime-thrillers, fea­
turing the now legendary performances by Jean- 
Paul Belmondo as a small time hood living on the 
edge, and Jean Seberg as the American girl who 
casually sleeps with him and just as casually 
betrays him.
Remade in 1983, this film is a philosophical 
thriller that is full of strange camerawork and 
fascinating plot.
At 6, 8, 10 pm, and midnight.
Thursday, April 7
Mean Streets
This film directed by Martin Scorsese stars 
Harvey Keitel and Robert De Niro and features 
the talent of Robert and David Carradine and Amy 
Robinson. The story revolves around Keitel and 
De Niro’s partnership in Little Italy where they 
run shady and dangerous deals for the New York 
mafia. One of Scorsese’s earlier masterpieces, this 
film is a technical gem, full of fascinating new 
styles that rival those of veteran filmmakers.
At 5:45, 8, 10:15 pm, and 12:30 am.
Friday, April 8
Addam’s Family Values
A fun-filled, if gruesome, comedy starring An­
gelica Houston and Raul Julia, this sequel is based 
on Charles Adam’s wickedly funny New Yorker 
family. The plot revolves around Uncle Fester’s 
(Christopher Lloyd) marriage to a black widow of 
a woman who wants him for his money and bald 
head. Comedy ensues when the family is faced 
with a series of perils that bring them closer 
together and help them realize their deep, undy­
ing love of one another. Actually, they are trapped 
in electric chairs and watch each other’s hair stand 
on end, but that is still sort of like love.
At 6, 8, 10 pm, and midnight.
Saturday, April 9
The Pelican Brief
Starring Denzel Washington and Julia Roberts, 
this drama based on John Grisham’s book is a taut 
thriller about Supreme Court murders. Roberts 
plays a young law student who comes up with a 
conspiracy theory about the assasinations of Su­
preme Court Justices. Washington steps in to help 
crack the case and the two fall into a maze of 
murder and intrigue.
At 5, 7:45, 10:30 pm, and 1:15 am.
Sunday, April 10
The Beast of Yucca Flats
Tor Johnson plays a Russian atomic scientist 
who is chased into the desert by Communist agents 
with guns. He walks into an atomic bomb blast and 
is reduced to a Neanderthal, living in a cave, 
carrying a big stick, lulling people, and eating 
hair.
Director/screenwriter Coleman Francis had the 
brilliant idea of using little or no dialogue, and 
instead, opted for the use of off-screen narration. 
The narrator informs the audience of things after 
they’ve already happened onscreen and repeats 
ludicrous, pseudophilosophical lines ad nauseum.
At 6, 8, 10 pm, and midnight.
By JOHN BIGGS
Opera coming to 
Studio Theater
OPERA, from page L7
There are two performances per 
night of this one hour opera, each 
with a different cast of four. The 
music in this opera is difficult 
compared to that of many musi­
cals. For example, the part of 
Miss Todd, played by Katherine 
Thomas (senior) and Deborah 
Bletstein (second year graduate), 
is not easily sung because of the 
wide range calling for a mezzo- 
soprano. . Directed by Chris 
Josephs of the Music Department, 
this is a inter-department pro­
duction, with a cast culled from 
the Music Department, and set 
designs, costumes, and lights 
taken care of by the Drama de­
partment.
The Old Maid and the Thief 
will be performing at the Studio 
Theater at 7:30 pm and 8:30 pm 
on Tuesday, March 22, and Thurs­
day, March 24 in the Studio The­
ater.
Club Hub
Monday, March 21
Sinkhole!SkablinsThe Decade
Tuesday, March 22 
Urge Overkilldoors open at 9pm; tickets $12.50Metropol
Ken Karsh & Lori RussoThe Balcony
Social Outcast TriageThe Decade
13 Enginesdoors open at 6pm & show at 9pm; tickets $3.00Rosebud
Wednesday, March 23
VinxGraffiti
ShadesThe Balcony
Jon Spencer Blues Explosiondoors open at 7pm; tickets $7.00Metropol
Dave KozRosebud
Thursday, March 24
Babar LatinoRosebud
Rock ExpressGrafitti
Friday, March 25
BlackfootGrafitti
The HurricanesNick's Fat City
Saturday, March 26
Affordable Floors with Vigilantes of LoveGrafitti
Robert CrayMetropol
Club Locations:The Balcony 5520 Walnut St., 687-0110 
The Decade 223 Atwood St., 682-1211 
Graffiti 4615 Baum Blvd., 682-8296 
Metropol 1600 Smallman Ave., 261-4512 
Nick’s Fat City 1601 East Carson St., 481-6880 
Rosebud 1650 Smallman St., 261-2221 
Electric Banana 3887 Bigelow Blvd., 682-4210 
Luciano’s Coffeehouse 1023 Forbes Ave., 281-6877 
Bloomfield Bridge Tavern 
4422 Liberty Ave., 682-8611
Photo Courtesy of Matador Records 
The Jon Spencer Blues Explosion will be performing at Metropol on 
Wednesday, March 23.
Cinema Cinem
Angie
Geena Davis stars as Angie, a 
brightyoung woman from Brooklyn 
who embarks on a journey of self- 
discovery after she decides to break 
ties with her long-time boyfriend, 
have his baby anyway, and face her 
family’s darkest secrets. (ManorThe- 
ater; 5:20, 7:40, 9:45 pm daily)
The Ballad of Narayama
A film focusing on a small Japa­
nese community who sacrifice their 
elders by exposing them to the 
harsh outdoor elements to feed their 
young. (Carnegie Museum of Art 
Theater; 8 pm Friday)
Greedy
Kurt Douglas and Michael). Fox 
star in this comedy of an aging 
patriarch and his greedy heirs who 
are jealous of his young girlfriend. 
(Manor Theater; 1:15, 3:15, 5:30, 
7:30, 9:30 pm daily)
Guarding Tess
Shirley McClaine and Nicholas 
Cage star in this comedy as an ex- 
first lady and the secret sen/ice agent 
assigned to protect her. (Manor 
Theater; 1:30,3:30,5:40, 7:45,9:50 
daily)
In the Name of the Father
Daniel Day Lewis and Emma 
Thompson star in this film about an 
Irish man who is sentenced to life 
.imprisonment for confessing to a 
crime he did not commit to save his 
father's life. (Squirrel Hill Cinema 
World; 7:15 pm daily, 4:30 pm Fri­
day through Sunday, 1:30 pm Sat­
urday and Sunday)
Naked
Winner of two 1993 Cannes 
Film Festival awards for Best Direc­
tor and Best Actor, this film focuses 
on the experiences of Johnny, a 
philosophising drifter in London. 
(Filmmakers at the Fulton; 8 pm 
Monday through Wednesday, Fri­
day through Sunday)
Naked Gun 331/3 
The Final Insult
Leslie Neilson, Priscilla Presley, 
George Kennedy, and OJ Simpson 
are together again tiying, in their 
wacky ways, to stop a bombing at 
the Academy Awards. (SquirrelHill 
Cinema World; 7:45,9:40pm daily, 
5:55 pm Friday through Sunday, 1, 
2:40, 4:20 pm Saturday and Sun­
day)
Reality Bites
Wynona Ryder 
and Ethan Hawke 
star in this Genera- 
tion-X romantic 
comedy about 
graduating stu­
dents in the 90s. 
(Beehive; 7:30, 
9:45 pm daily, 
midnight Friday 
and Saturday, 3:30 
pm Friday through 
Sunday)
The Piano
Naked Gun 33
CMU alum 
Holly Hunter stars in the story of a 
Victorian woman who moves to the 
wilds of New Zealand, where she 
explores her relationships with her 
husband (Sam Neil) and her lover 
(Harvey Keitel). (Beehive; 5:30 daily, 
1 pm Saturday and Sunday)
The Ref
Comedian Denis Leaiy stars as a 
catburgularwho breaks into a house 
on Christmas Eve and has to hold 
the dysfunctional family that lives 
there hostage. (Squirrel Hill Cinema 
World; 9:30 pm daily, 7:30 pm 
Wednesday through Monday, 5:30 
pm Friday through Sunday, 1:30, 
3:30 pm Saturday and Sunday)
Schindler’s List
Steven Spielberg directs this his­
toric film about the life of German 
businessman Oskar Schindler and 
how he saved the lives of thou­
sands of Jewish people from the 
World War II Holocaust. (Manor
Theater; 12:45, 4:30, 8 pm daily) 
Short Cuts
Loosely based on 'Raymond 
Carver’s short stories, Short Cuts is 
an epic about nine characters trying 
to make sense of their lives in 
America in the '90’s. Andie 
MacDowell, Matthew Modine, Lily 
Tomlin, Tom Waits, and Jack 
Lemmon star. (Playhouse; 7 pm
Photo Courtesy of Paramount Pictures 
1/3 is now playing at Squirrel Hill Cinema World.
months before he died. (Carnegie 
Museum of Art Theater; 7:30 pm 
Thursday)
Visiting Artist • Gary Adelstein
Featuring a segment of lyrical 
filmmaker, Adelstein’s super-8 and 
video collection. (Filmmakers at the 
Fulton; 8 pm Thursday)
Woman of The Port
A Mexican 
film about a 
poor yet pure 
woman who 
has been aban­
doned by the 
men in her life 
and is forced 
to prostitute 
herself to sur­
vive. (Carnegie 
Museum of Art 
Theater; 8 pm 
Saturday)
Theater
locations:
Monday through Sunday)
Sugar Hill
Wesley Snipes stars in this gritty 
drama about a young drug dealer 
and his desired escape from the 
seedy world his brother and father 
have created for him. (Squirell Hill 
Cinema World; 9:50 pm daily, 4:15 
pm Saturday and Sunday)
Van Gogh
Based on the everyday struggles 
of Vincent Van Gogh’s life three
Beehive: 3807 Forbes Ave. 
687-WHAT
Filmmakers at the Fulton:
101 Sixth St., Downtown 
471-9700
The Manor Theater: 1729 
Murray Ave. 422-7729 
Pittsburgh Playhouse:
222 Craft Ave. 621-6601 
Squirrel Hill Cinema World:
5824 Forward Ave. 421-7900 
Carnegie Museum of Art 
Theater: 4400 Forbes Ave. 
622-3212
By TARA ZANE
Earn an Easy $20!
GRE and MCAT Test Takers 
Needed to Participate in a study 
on test preparation. Contact:
Lisa Hartman @ 
421-9759 
268-8112 
Or lh34<a>andrew
IMMIGRATION LAWYER .
Green Cards 0 Work Visas 0 
Labor Certifications 0 Extensions of Stay 0 
Change of Status 0 All Immigration Problems
Students, Faculty, qCaeew Profesionals, 
Researchers, Health Care arA Other Workers
FREE CONFIDENTIAL CONSULTATION 
Convenient Shadyside Office 
Evening/Weekend Appointments Available
LAW OFFICES OF 
GARY STEINER 
(412) 683 - 7280

---------------------------------------------------

To that beautiful blonde girl,
You’d better quit watching those 
dirty movies before your eyes fall 
out.
Mark,
Better luck next time you try to 
beat me up ... Haha
Navystud,
Great time last Sunday. 3 times in 
one day! Thanks a lot. Keep up the 
good work.
Babewatch
AB,
I hope you don’t wash your face 
with that green washcloth!
Muff
Hey Nardo,
You’re not the first,
You won’t be the last,
You should probably 
get to a clinic.
Concerned citizen
Steph Miller,
Stop the madness ... good thing 
your boyfriend’s whipped!!!
Kappa pledges are the shit!
Hey Evan W,
Did anyone tell you 
you are just like 
Arnold
Schwartznegger? 
(Well, minus the 
muscles)
Mark from DU,
Wanna see my cat? good line!! I guess 
you’ll have to get by on your looks 
alone!! UH OH!!
hey dorothy hamill,
likin’ that new doo ... or maybe NOT
To the Y&R crew at Kappa,
Don’t you just love Nikki’s hair?
Pika Rich,
When are we going to get to share 
you? Don’t tease us, please us!!
LC,
I love you! Its been a great six months. 
Ab
SWF: searching for a tall, athletic 
man who’s sensitive ... oh wait... this 
is CMU ... oops ...
Men are like pantyhose, just when you 
need them, they tend to run!!!
Right PD & TB? love, aid
Mike Monico,
We’ve been watching you and we 
LOVE you ... guido admirer!!! 
ps. what’s the T stand for?
Hey ROXIE,
LIPS not LIST!! I hope you were
wearing underwear or maybe not 
love, your front row
Kappa Esther,
Skinny AND a chest? NO FAIR!! 
fellow prison mates
Paula,
Do you have a cure for GD? Step on 
back, I think she’s gonna blow!!!
SEXY
Basil,
isn’t hard to settle for sloppy seconds? 
guess not... too bad you weren’t first!!
Double J:
glad to see you CAN be mature from 
time to time ... the kids say hi!!
Bachster,
How many Beta’s can you kiss? Are you 
trying to break PD’s record?
Crispana, Boody, Jerkoff, Moldy, 
Doobie,
It’s time to kiss the midget!!!
AD
Alexa,
I got two words for you, G.D.!!!
Now can we go?
nuff said, get the test.. 
-0 for ....
Hey Doobie,
He had it cornin’ right?They all do. 
Sexy
Evan,
Maintenance Job, Stooge’s Uterus, 
Foster’s Friend, Shadyside Early 
Graduate, Schmeidle’s Chick, Study 
Buddy, Lightfoot
TO EVERYONE IN GREEK SING: 
GREAT JOB!!
the sisters and pledges of KKG
If you understand, things are just as 
they are. If you do not understand, 
things are just as they are.
Hey Baby Bear and Mona Tiger,
This is a box-pop vox opo. We want to 
lick your ears.
Love, Sonnenaulgang & Andrew
It takes two people to make eye 
contact
the deep ... poet?
Assume Paul Ju positions and get 
ready for BOOTH! BUGGY!
Greek Sing Score Sheet=A Piece of 
paper with no meaning 
and not to be followed
The Pittsburgh Cultural Trust presents “Hard 
Choices III,” an exhibition of works by Pennsylva­
nia Council of the Arts through April 9. Among 
others, the works of CMU professor Charlee Brodsky 
will be shown. For more information and gallery 
hours, call Rob at 471-6070.
Alex Henry, Dara Dzurinko, and Carol Collins
have works on display at the Forbes Gallery through 
March 13. Call 268-2081 for gallery hours or infor­
mation.
The Art Department is sponsoring a lecture by 
Maria Abramovic, a German artist, on Tuesday at 
5 pm in DH 2315. Call Laurel Quigley for more 
information at x8-2409.
________MEETINGS
Come repair, revise, and revitalize your for­
eign language skills at the international lan­
guage tables held daily over lunch. Sponsored by 
the Modem Languages Department, all language 
tables are held in the Graduate Student Coffee­
house, with the exception of the Russian Language 
table, held in the Faculty Dining Room. Times are as 
follows: Tuesdays: Russkii Chas and La Table 
Française at 12:30 pm; Wednesdays: La Mesa 
Española at 11:30 am; Thursdays: Deutscher 
Stammtisch at 11:30 am; and Fridays: Bentoo Lunch
o nihongo de at 12:30 pm.
The Pittsburgh Hypnosis Research Group holds 
workshop méetings every Monday at 7 pm at the 
Friends Meeting House. For more information, call 
Bill King at 276-1768.
Traditional Irish Set dancing classes take place 
every Sunday night from 7 to 9 pm in the Bellefield 
Building at University of Pittsburgh. Call 363-8686 
for more information.
The Self Knowledge Symposium provides a 
weekly forum for students inquiring into the mean­
ing and purpose of life. Regular meetings are held 
Tuesdays at 7 pm in the Cathedral of Learning, room 
236. For more information, call 343-1907.
The Women’s Center Collective holds meetings 
every Sunday at 3 pm in the CMU Women’s Center. 
If your group is interested in meeting in the center, 
call x8-3595.
Fear public speaking? Join the Whiskey Rebel­
lion Toastmasters Club every first and third Wednes­
day at the Carnegie Library in Oakland from 7-8:30 
pm. For more information, call 422-5361.
Je wish Law and Customs Class is held on Wednes­
days at 7:30 pm in the Israel room (337) .at the 
Cathedral of Learning and on Thursdays in Skibo 
201 at 8 pm, free of charge. Call Rabbi Samuel 
Weinstein at 683-7770 for more information.
Student Dormitory Council (SDC) holds meet­
ings every Wednesday at 7 pm in the Wherrett 
Room. For more information, call x8-2114.
The Pterodactyl Speedway holds student read­
ings in Scotland Yard every other Thursday evening 
at 7 pm. Come out and support the local student 
writing community. Students interested in reading 
should, contact Micki Kochanskyj (mk57) or Tina 
Urso (tu05). This week’s readers are Kathy Jo 
Kramer, Sarah Sterling, Kristin Beveridge, and 
Jeanne Bauer.
A Rational Recovery support group for those with 
alcohol or drug problems meets every Friday at 7:30 
pm. Meetings are free and held in Room 205 of the 
Wightman Community Center Building in Squirrel 
Hill. For information on this and other RR meetings 
in the Pittsburgh area, phone 261-5363.
The Student Environmental Action Coalition
meets every Sunday at 4:30 at the Pennsylvania 
Environmental Resource Center at the corner of 
Forbes and Craig, third floor. SEAC is composed of 
activists and organizers who fight for greater aware­
ness of the current state of the environment and for 
preservation of this delicately balanced ecosystem. 
Call 681-8300 for more information.
If you need to walk across campus late at night,
call SafeWalk between 10 pm and 2 am seven nights 
a week at 268-SAFE (x8-7233). For more informa­
tion, contact Ray Tseng at 682-3068.
Welsh language classes sponsored by the Celtic 
Society will be held in Porter Hall A19A on Wednes­
day evenings; beginners at 7:15 pm and advanced 
beginners at 8:30 pm. Call 521-6722 to enroll.
Women in Science meets every Wednesday from 
6:30 to 7:30 pm in the Women’s Center. Contact Tara 
at x8-8010 or email thin with questions.
Student Alumni Relations Council meets every 
Wednesday at 5 pm in the Alumni House Conference 
Room, 5017 Forbes Avenue. For more information, 
contact Kyra Salakas at x2-3067.
---------------MUSIC
Michael Vlatkovich Septet from Los Angeles 
with local CMU jazz group 40 Stories will per­
form Thursday at the Bloomfield Bridge Tavern at 9
pm. Admission is $5. Call 682-8611 for more in­
formation.
The Bach Choir of Pittsburgh will perform old 
and new music on Thursday at the Church of the 
Ascension at 8 pm. For tickets and more informa­
tion, call 682-BACH.
Compline, Prayer at the Close of the Day is sung 
every Sunday at 9:30 pm at the Heinz Chapel. For 
more information, call 682-6886.
-------------NOTICES
The Diversity Roundtable is sponsoring Free 
Your Mind: Going Beyond Racial Barriers, an
informal dinner and discussion, which will be held in 
the President’s Dining Room on Wednesday at 5 pm. 
Contact Aileen Connolly at x8-2075 to make a reser- 
vation or for more information.
Women's Federation for World Peace presents 
“True Parents and the Completed Testament of Age” 
at 7 pm on Sunday, March 27 at the Holiday Inn in 
Oakland. Call 241-6105 or 464-0683 for more infor­
mation.
SARC is sponsoring Networking for Your Fu­
ture, a discussion about marketing yourself and job 
opportunities, which will be held Thursday at 6 pm 
in the Adamson Wing of Baker Hall. Contact Shelley 
at x8-8451 for more information.
Writing submissions for the Adamson Awards
for excellence in writing are due to the English 
Department by April 5 at 5 pm. A new brochure with 
details of submission requirements is available in 
the English Office, Baker Hall 259. Contact Lisa 
Lightner for more information.
CMU alumnae Betty Harner and Angela Pollis
will speak Thursday at 5 pm in the Morewood TV 
room on “The Margaret Morrison Era: A History of 
Female Scientists at CMU.” Contact Rachel Sablosky 
for more information at x2-2010.
------------RELIGION
B’nai B’rith Hillel’s Passover Seder will take 
place on Saturday at 8 pm in the Pitt Club. Call 621- 
8875 for reservations and more information.
Passover lunches and dinners will be avail­
able at B’nai B’rith Hillel, 160 North Craig Street 
on for the week of Monday, March 28. Call 621-8875 
for more information.
Ecumenical Holy Communion, sponsored by the 
Episcopal and Lutheran Campus Ministries, is held 
Wednesdays at 5 pm in the Heinz Chapel.
The Roman Catholic Chaplaincy celebrates Mass 
daily on campus at 12:30 pm in Skibo 39 on week­
days. Weekend Masses are celebrated at 10:30 am 
and 8 pm every Sunday in the GSIA Cooper Audito­
rium. For more information, call the Newman Ora­
tory Center at 681-3181.
St. Agnes Church offers the Traditional Latin 
Mass Sundays at 8:30 am and 11 am, first Fridays of 
the month at 7:30 pm, and first Saturdays at 9 am. 
Confession and the Holy Rosary are offered 30 min­
utes prior to all Masses. Call 766-0950 for more 
information.
Tech House will host a weekly Bible Study at 7
pm on Thursdays. For more information, call x2- 
2484.
Shabbat at Hillel is held every Friday with a happy 
half hour (hors d’oeuvres) at 5:30 pm, services at 6 
pm, and dinner following. Call 621-8875 for more 
information or to RSVP.
Daressalam Islamic Center, located at 4100 
Bigelow Blvd., offers weekly congregational prayers 
at noon on Fridays. For more information, call 682- 
5555.
New Hope Christian Community Church in­
vites all students to join other young adults in 
contemporary, casual, and uplifting services on Sun­
days at 11 am in the Central Christian Church 
located at 134 N. Dithridge. For more information, 
call 621-6760.
Prayer at the Close of the Day, sponsored by the 
Lutheran Campus Ministry, is held Sundays at 9:30 
pm in the Heinz Chapel. This Sunday’s organist will 
be Michael D. Schreffler of Coraopolis Presbyterian 
Church. For more information, call 682-6886.
Smithfield United Church, located downtown, 
holds Sunday morning worship services at 10:45 am. 
A free student fellowship luncheon follows each 
service.
Shadyside Presbyterian Church holds worship 
service Sundays at 11 am and college class at 9:45 
am. Shadyside College Fellowship is on Fridays at 
6:30 pm. Contact Dan Moss or Annette Ediger at 
682-4300.
The Church of the Ascension (Episcopal) wel­
comes all students to join those who worship, serve, 
and fellowship there. They hold services on Sundays 
with a Eucharist at 8:30 am, a college class at 9:30
am, and morning worship at 11 am in the chapel 
located on the corner of Ellsworth and Neville. A 
Eucharist is also held on Wednesdays at 7 am. For 
more information, contact campus minister Brian 
VanderWel at 621-4361.
The Lutheran University Center, located at 4515 
Forbes, invites you to join in an Episcopal Lutheran 
Shared Eucharist on Sundays at 11 am at the Cen­
ter. Call x682-6886 for more information.
--------------SPORTS
The men’s tennis team has away matches this 
weekend against Catholic University on Saturday 
at 10 am, Salisbury State University on Sunday at 
9 am, and Methodist College on Sunday at 2 pm. The 
team will travel to Hilton Head on Monday, March 
28 for matches.
The women’s tennis team begins its season this 
weekend in away matches, on Friday against Catho­
lic University at 3 pm , Marymount University at 3 
pm on Saturday, and against Methodist College at 2 
pm on Sunday. On Monday, March 28, they will 
travel to Hilton Head, SC for matches.
The women’s lacrosse team is holding practices 
for their spring season Tuesday nights on the turf 
from 7-10 pm and Thursdays on the CFA lawn from 
4:30-7 pm. Contact Astrid Rapp at 422-8130 for 
more information.
The men’s lacrosse team practices on Tuesdays 
and Thursdays from 7-10 pm on the turf. Contact 
Josh Marks at x8-3947 for more information.
The Catholic Alumni Club of Pittsburgh is 
sponsoring singles volleyball every Wednesday 
at 8 pm at St. Edmund’s Academy in Squirrel Hill. 
Enjoy a rousing evening of volleyball and meet other 
singles for only $3. Call 766-6574 or 341-4070 for 
more information.
-------------THEATER
Harold Pinter’s modern classic The Caretaker,
starring Bingo O’Malley, Richard McMillian, and 
Bradley Dean will be performed at the City Theater 
this month. Call Sara Durkacs at 431-CITY for more 
information and tickets.
Flying Pig Theater is pleased to announce the 
addition of new faces to its improvisational com­
pany, Reality Optional. The group will perform at 
Luciano’s on Thursday at 8 pm.
I
