nhc a t'-zT'
pi nrz2runrJVJ
?
VOL. VII.NO. 20t'-zTpiT VzOLiL.LT IN 2T0—zI+IpMu siLLOc.-p—u sTzzOM+a'zi'lTc-.'-M Cbu rerxd
t——ÜYE MUSICAL CLUBS
—»-----------------------
1
i------------------+
L—T 'zz.'+ —IoT 0Iz0T-L
Musical Clubs are expected to eclipse 
all previous concerts on Wednes­
day, March 12.
THE DIRECTORS
The annual Home Concert of the Car­
negie Musical Clubs which will be held on 
Wednesday evening March the twelfth 
will mark the eighth occurrence of this 
popular event. Not one of these years 
has passed without a concert showing 
vast improvement over those preceding, 
and the Eighth Home Concert will be no 
exception to this rule.
On this night of nights the wheels of 
the mighty machinery of the four schools 
will cease their hum, the campus will be 
deserted and all roads will lead to Car­
negie Music Hall. From early in the 
evening until long after the opening 
chorus at eight fifteen, an endless stream 
of carriages, automobiles, and street cars 
will flood to the doors of the hall bringing 
the eager throng of faculty, students, 
friends arid musical critics all looking for­
ward to an evening certain to be filled 
with rare delight. And a gala night it 
will be, long to be remembered by all those 
present, for the 1913 concert will eclipse 
the famous concert of 1912 which is still 
remembered with so much pleasure by the 
fortunate ones attending.
Since November the clubs have been 
giving concerts in various towns in the 
western part of the state, and each con­
cert has met with the most flattering ap­
proval from its patrons. Time and time 
again the remark has been repeated, 
“Surely the students of the Carnegie In­
stitute of Technology cannot be other than 
proud of such an organization.” And 
true it is,no department of student activity 
has risen so rapidly to the University 
standing than have the Musical Clubs, 
and today we stand second to none in 
this branch, strong as the statement may 
seem. The clubs are much in favor of the 
following article in the New York “Sun” 
commending the larger Universities on 
their advancement of college music. “It 
is good to see college men, who have not a 
very good name in the world of Art and 
Culture, taking up good music and trying 
to advance beyond the silly “glee club 
style.”
Signor Gregorio Scalzo after hearing 
the rendering of a difficult selection by 
the Penn Mandolin Club, which is re­
puted to be the best in the East, said, 
“They play very well, but I have yet to 
hear a more finished club than our own” 
And in comparing glee clubs we might 
say that Cornell is the club picked by 
critics to deliver the best music of the 
university style. But the writer, who has 
heard them several times, commends them
Continued on page 5
R. J. MCDOWELL, 
Leader of the Glee Club
GREGORIO SCALZO, 
Leader of the Mandolin Club
Who They are and Why
The success of any organization depends 
greatly upon the ability of the individuals 
composing it, but this factor has no value 
if the individuals are not welded into a 
unit, called on the athletic field, a team. 
The ultimate success, then, depends upon 
the leader, director or coach who must 
make one out of many. The Musical 
Clubs are fortunate in having directors 
of the two departments who have display­
ed this ability of unifying-the organiza­
tion in spirit and interests, as well as in
BETHANY LOST IN WOODS 
Distanced in Second Half
By starting a rally in the final period, 
the Varsity left the Bethany College five 
so far behind that they never came into 
sight. The game was played at Bethany, 
W. Va., on Saturday night, February 22, 
it being the second game of the flying 
trip of the Plaid five. The first half was 
rather slow, but both teams were on a 
par, the half ending with Bethany ] point 
in the lead. When the ball was tossed up 
for the second period, the visitors gave 
evidence of a new lease on life, and opened 
up a brand of basketball that left the 
Bethany five stunned with amazement as 
far as ability to score was concerned. 
The entire half was one merry romp for 
the Carnegie lads, and fourteen field 
goals were scored to two for Bethany. 
The entire game was comparatively free 
from illegal play, but seven fouls being 
called on either side. Metheny, Criswell 
and Colvin starred in the scoring, and 
their work in the second half was very 
creditable. The guards, Heisel and Dou- 
thett, also performed well in their depart­
ments, covering their men closely and 
following the ball in an alert manner. 
Smith and Shuttleworth played well for 
Bethany in the initial period.
The line-up:—
Carnegie Tech—38 Bethany—15
Criswell F.............................Smith
Metheny............. F.......................... Rogers
Colvin.................. C................Shuttleworth
Douthett............. G...............................Wells
Heisel................... G..........................Wilkins
Substitution—Harmon for Rogers.
First Half—Field Goals—Criswell 2, 
Metheny 2, Smith 3, Shuttleworth 2.
Foul Goals—Criswell 2 out of 6, Wells 1 
out of 4.
Score for half,Bethany 11, Carnegie 10.
Second Half—Field Goals—Metheny 4, 
Criswell 3, Colvin 3, Heisel 3, Douthett, 
Smith ,Wells.
Foul Goals—Criswell missed 1, Smith 
missed 1, Wells missed 1.
Score for half—Carnegie 28, Behtanv 4.
Referee—Bradford.
musical harmony. Both Signor Scalzo 
and Mr. McDowell are directing the clubs 
for the third successive year, and tri e re­
sults of their work are now well-known.
Signor Gregorio Scalzo is an individual 
performer on stringed instruments of such 
ability as to have won international fame. 
In spite of his youth, he has had vast 
experience as student, performer and 
leader. At an early age he made a tour of 
Europe and South America as a violin* 
virtuoso, locating in this country for a few 
years. He continued his musical educa- 
Continued on page o
ANOTHER MARRIAGE
A. Cooley Baume added to the List of 
Married Men
The darts of Cupid have gone to the 
hearts of two of the members of the Senior 
Class of the Science since Christmas and 
have lodged there. The latest member of 
the “Married Men’s Association” is A. 
Cooley Baume of the Senior Electricals, 
who -was married to Miss Loina Genevieve 
Atherton, on February tenth. Mr. and 
Mrs. Baume are “at home” in McKee 
Place.

---------------------------------------------------

2THE TARTAN
THE TARTAN
Published weekly by the Undergraduates 
of the Carnegie Institute of Technology, 
Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania.
Business communications should be 
addressed to the BUSINESS EDITOR; 
all articles and other communications 
should be sent to the EDITOR-IN-CHIEF.
SUBSCRIPTION RATES 
Yearly $1.00 5c per Copy
Entered in the Post Office of Pitts­
burgh as second class matter.
PITTSBURGH, PA., FEB. 27, 1913.
BOARD OF EDITORS
Donald D. Mitchell, ’13 . Editor-in-Chief
G. Guy Kelcey, ’14.............Business Editor
Charles E. Gilson, ’14.............News Editor
C. B Kline, ’13.....................Athletic Editor
Eugene Dowling, ’09.............Alumni Editor
Albert E. Ball, ’13.................Science Editor
A. H. Good, ’14........................Design Editor
Guy Elliott, '13.................Industries Editor
Margaret H. Webb, ’14.........
...........................M. M. C. S. Editor •
W. H. Searight, ’15 ...........
..........................Assistant News Editor
1!. Knight, To.....................
Assistant to the Business Editor
The Editors of The Tartan desire to 
announce that a competition for 
places on the news staff will be opened 
to members of the Sophomore and 
Freshman Classes on Friday, Febru­
ary 28th. This competition will re­
main open until Thursday, April 17th. 
All those desiring to enter are urged 
to communicate with either the Edi­
tor-in-Chief or the News Editor as 
soon as possible.
Records will be kept of the quantity 
and quality of the work turned in by 
each contestant and the decision 
reached accordingly. The men
chosen will be given places as reporters 
for the balance of the present school 
year, at the end of which time they 
will be promoted to the positions on 
the Editorial Board left vacant by 
graduation. It is hoped that a large 
number will enter this competition. 
-----o-----
This issue is the annual Musical Clubs’ 
Issue. As the years since the Musical 
Clubs were founded have gone by, we 
have seen a steady progression in that 
organization and its work, and, from all 
reports, this year will be no exception. 
To those responsible for this meritorious 
work all credit is due. The Tartan wishes 
the Musical Clubs a very successful Home 
Concert and dance, and trusts that every 
student will be in his seat at the Carnegie 
Music Hall on the evening of the twelfth 
of March.
We read in an exchange recently that, 
at the particular college from which the 
exchange came, there is a “tradition” 
that the Home Concert shall be extremely 
good and that it shall not be supported 
by the student-body. The first part of 
that “tradition” is applicable here at 
Carnegie. Our home concerts are good 
and each succeeding one is an improve­
ment upon the increasingly high standard
set the year previous. The Second part 
of the “tradition” does not apply. As the 
Home Concerts have improved, the sup­
port given by the student-body to the 
Musical Clubs increased. The Musical 
Clubs are out this year to break all re­
cords on their side. Let the student- 
body, therefore, exert itself to an equal 
extent and break the attendance records. 
We can then formulate a “tradition” of 
our own, that each year the Musical Clubs 
shall give a Home Concert of high quality 
and that the student-body shall stand 
behind it en masse.
THE MUSICAL CLUBS’ DANCE
GET YOUR THISTLE RECEIPT
As the Thistle will very soon be in 
the hands of the printer, it is necessary 
that the Board know how many books to 
have printed. In order that this informa­
tion may be accurate and complete the 
number of receipts sold must determine 
the number of books to be printed. If 
you have not yet secured your receipt it 
would be well to do so at once. If you 
don’t have a. receipt and do not procure 
one before the next week or so you will be 
lacking when the books come out. This 
would be a great misfortune indeed and 
in order to prevent such you must secure 
your receipt at once. Think of the op­
portunity you have of securing a fine 
leather bound Thistle for the very small 
sum of $2.00. It must be understood 
that we need your support in making 
this year’s Thistle a financial success and 
furthermore we are counting on that sup­
port. Get busy and shell out your dollar.
Immediately following the HOME 
CONCERT on March twelfth, the Musi­
cal Clubs will hold a formal dance from 
eleven to two, at the Hotel Schenley for 
which an assessment of one dollar will be 
made. The Schenley Ballroom, besides 
being the finest in the city, is within easy 
reach of the Carnegie Music Hall and 
will accommodate one hundred and fifty 
couples comfortably.
Those who attended the dance last 
year doubtless recall the congested con­
dition of the ballroom, three hundred and 
twenty couples being present, and, though 
it was voted a “grand old time”, there was 
little possibility of dancing. It has, there­
fore been decided to limit the sale of 
dance tickets to one hundred, which with 
the members of the Musical Clubs, will 
bring the assemblage to a comfortable 
size. The dance coupons may be obtained 
at the BOX OFFICE during the “student 
sale”, at the price named by the faculty, 
alumni and students who purchase $1.50 
seats. Programmes will be given with 
dance tickets and a dance order will be 
posted on the bulletin boards of the three 
schools on Monday, March tenth. The 
inimitable Scalzo will be present with his 
full orchestra, and when that is said, all is 
said, so save up your shekels to show 
“HER” a good time.
PLEBE-SOPHOMORE GAME
MHO CLUB MEETING
The second game between the two lower 
classes resulted in another victory for the 
Plebes, the undefeated champions. In 
spite of the final score, which was 33 to 15, 
the game did not •seem entirely one-sided, 
as the Sophs played with spirit. The ball 
was kept up in the air, except when some 
one threw it down to the lunch room, or 
when rival players tried to grab it at the 
same time. The only lack in the Sopho­
more team was in height; the Plebes cer­
tainly enjoy an enviable superiority in 
that direction—up.
The line-up:—•
Plebes—33 Sophomores—15
Menges................. G........................Spilman
Owen-Keiser....... G. McMillan- McGraw
McClelland.......... C................Montgomery
Booth...................S. C............................Bates
Pichel.................... F.......................Freeland
Berry..................... F. ..Goodchild Williams
Goals; Pichel 12, Berry 3, Freeland 4,
Goodchild 2.
Fouls—Pichel 2, Berry 1, Freeland 2, 
Goodchild 1. Score—33 to 15.
The regular February meeting of the 
Mho Club was held in Room 121, Science 
Building last Wednesday night, February 
nineteenth.
As this was the first meeting of the 
semester, an el ct'on of officers was held 
with the following result:
President...................................Geo. S. Diehl
Vice President...............r........H. C. Gumbar
Vice President...................H. E. Gumbart
Secretary & Treasurer...........Harry Oakes
Excutive Committee........J. R. Gearhart
W. C. Sontum 
C. A. Leibold
After a short business meeting, the 
program of the evening was taken up.
Mr. Krampert, in a short talk on Current 
Events, reviewed briefly the more im­
portant happenings of the month.
Mr. Dunbar then spoke on the subject 
of “Direct Current vs. Alternating Cur­
rent for Trunk Line Electrification.” He 
covered the subjec very thoroughly, tak­
ing up the use of direct current and of 
single phase and three phase alternating 
current in trunk line work, showing the 
advantages and disadvantages of each.
Mr. Leibold spoke on “Direct Curent 
Electrification”, handling the ubject in 
very satisfactory manner.
Afte a general discussion of the subject, 
the members adjourned to the club room 
and the “eats”.
The next meeting of the Club will be 
held on the evening of March 5th, 1913, at 
which time Mr. Alan Bright of the Mac-
beth-Evans Co. will address the meeting ---------------------
on the subject of Illumination. All mem- All the Janitors have purchased re- 
bers of the Club should be on hand at ceipts. Even they take an interest in the 
this time. Thistle. Are you going to do your share?
When Making Purchases Mention THE TARTAN; it helps.
SWIMMING PARTY
The Third Year Night Science Class 
held their first swimming party at the 
Duquesn? Natatorium on February 15th. 
The “tired feeling” so common among 
the men at “week ends” was surely re­
moved by the “sport” and so the meeting, 
place was speedily changed from the 
banks of the pool to a nearby bowling 
alley, where the points scored convinced 
us all 'of the “benefits” of swimming.
But this “big night” did not come 
to a close even after the bowling was over, 
for some one spied a sign marked “Eat” 
and hither we all went.
O. C. HENRY
339 Fifth Ave.
P HOT OGRAPHS
We make a specialty of school groups, class 
and fraternity pictures. Prices the lowest and 
work the best. — Telephone Grant 3-581.
Stop at
STAUFT’S
News—Stationer—Tobacco 
3702 Forbes Street, Pittsburgh, Pa.
PIERPONT, SiVITER & CO.
ENGRAVING PRINTING
EMBOSSING
Monograms and Crest Stationery promptly furnished in the latest styles in addition to all classes of Art Printing for social and commercial purposes
117-119 SHADY AVENUE
GOOD 
CLOTHES 
CHEAPER
Clothiers, Tailors,
Hatters, Furnishers
504-506 Federai St»t N* S*
C. A. HEIMERT
3614 Forbes Ave. Iroquois Block4* *
f “Men’s Wear Store”%r**UP-TO-DATE
Snappy Togs
for the young man always ^ 
% on the tray. J
Ice Cream and Cakes
Sold to Tech Students at special rates 
See us about the “eatin’s” for your “doi.n’s’
THE HALLER BAKERY
3618 Forbes Ave., Iroquois Block
THE SCHENLEY FARMS
Pittsburgh’s Restricted Residence District
THE SCHENLEY FARMS CO.
1412 Farmers Bank Bldg.
Choice Lenten Delicacies
in ample variety at
STEVENSON’S STORES
606 Wood Street Down townHighland & Centre Aves. East End
Bell phone 3465 Grant
Standard Desks, Macey' Filing Cabinets and Sectional Book Cases, Steel Book Units, Filing Devices and Safe Cabinets
J. Q. Marshall Company
Office and Library Furniture 
959 Liberty Avenue Pittsburg, Pa.
‘Patronize our Vdv ertisers.’

---------------------------------------------------

THE TARTAN3
ALLEGHENY LEAVES ATHLETIC 
LEAGUE
On last Saturday the Inter-Collegi­
ate Association of Western Pennsylvania 
and West Virginia breathed its last gasp. 
Some time last week the Faculty of Allegh­
eny College held a meeting at which they 
voted unanimously to withdraw from the 
league. Following this action, President 
Crawford, of Allegheny, president of the 
association, called a meeting for Sat­
urday at the Fort Pitt Hotel, Pittsburgh. 
At the appointed time he found himself 
the only one present, the other schools 
apparently not taking enough interest 
in the proceedings to send a delegate. 
Needless to say, there was no objection 
to Allegheny’s withdrawal.
Carnegie Tech, Westminster, Geneva 
and Grove City are now the only remain­
ing members. Of these Westminster is 
said to have definitely decided to get out 
and has already tried to schedule games 
with other schools in this section in vio­
lation of the league ruling. Geneva will 
not support a baseball team this spring.
The annual track and fisld meet of 
the association was to have been held at 
Montgomery Field, the new athletic field 
at Allehgeny. Allegheny’s withdrawal will 
of course make this impossible and prob­
ably means that there will be no meet.— 
Allegheny College Campus.
INDUSTRIES MASS MEETING
Wednesday afternoon of last week Dean 
Connelly, at the request of the officers of 
the Upper Class and Senate, called a 
mass meeting of all students, at which 
time very 'important business was trans­
acted. The Dean spoke briefly on several 
topics, the most important being in con­
nection with the Senate, and in regard to 
the honor system which it is hoped will be 
installed in the School in the near future. 
Following the remarks of the Dean, A.
E. Hamilton, President of the Upper Class, 
mounted the rostrum and presented the 
constitution for the Senate. Guy Elliott, 
President of the Senate was called forth 
to read the document and to explain each 
rule, and regulation, which constitution 
was later adopted by a unanmous vote of 
the students. A Club Room committee 
was then elected to take care of the new 
Club Room. Mr. F. J. Hartman, right 
hand man to Dean Connelly briefly ex­
plained the merits of the honor system 
as he has seen it successfully installed in 
other schools. After Mr. Hartman’s talk 
the Plebe Class was dismissed and the 
Middle and Upper Classes held a joint 
meeting to discuss business of interest 
to them, and later the Middle Class was 
dismissed leaving the Upper Class to dis­
cuss matters relative to graduation exer­
cises.
CLUB ROOM COMMITTEE ELECTED
In order to equip and boost the new 
Club Room for the Industries School, a 
committee was elected by the student 
body to take charge of the work. The 
following men will have charge of the fin­
ances, furnishing, etc.
A. El Hamilton 
W. H. Criswell 
Thos. Fish 
W. J. Heisel 
Metheny.
OFFICERS OF THE CLUBS
-----o-----
The Men Higher Up
According to tradition, everybody, soc­
ial or political, must have a few members 
who, for the privilege of wearing high- 
sounding titles perform some service usu­
ally lost sight of in the life of that body. 
In New York, these are police officials, 
who. wear titles of lieutenant, inspector, 
etc., and do the arduous, and until lately 
secret work of relieving gamblers and other 
protected individuals of iil-gotten gains. 
In the Carnegie Musical Clubs, on the 
other hand, these privileged classes “do 
the dirty work” and earn their cognomens 
by the light of the club house gas bill. 
In proof whereof we give the list and 
their deeds.
Robert M. Crawford occupies the covet­
ed position of President of the Combined 
Musical Clubs of the Carnegie Institute 
of Technology, and, in consideration 
therefor, has done more to raise the stand­
ard of music in the said C. I. T. than any 
other man in the schools. Nominally, 
he bosses the job; practically, he does 
part of the work of all of the other men, 
besides writing songs, leading singers and 
“soloing alone.” He is, without a doubt, 
the most valuable member that a college 
organization ever had.
One man, Frank H. Haaren, possesses 
the two titles of Secretary and Treasurer. 
His duties are the routine ones of scribe 
and guardian of the exchequer, without 
emoluments. In spite of his numerous 
interests as Editor-in-Chief of the Thistle 
and Manager of the Football team, he 
still finds time to scribble and guard, as 
well as to play in the Mandolin Clubs.
The job of Manager has had a number of 
incumbents during this season. The first
elected, did not return to school this year, 
and L. E. Griswold was raised in his stead. 
Mr. Griswold worked faithfully during the 
past semester and arranged for the many 
concerts that have been given in that 
time, but has resigned in order to pursue 
his studies, which require all of his time 
and attention. N. A. Hollister is the lat­
est possessor of the title, and upon him 
devolves the heaviest work of the year, the 
arrangement of the business details of the 
Home Concert. Every occupied seat will 
be a testimonial to his effectiveness, as 
well as the satisfaction of every occupant 
in regard to the management.
A. E. Hamilton, as chief assistant to the 
Manager, wears and bears the title of 
Business Manager. He is the man that 
hustles out for the advance dates, sees 
that the clubs have warm, airy retiring 
rooms, and smooths the conductor’s feel­
ings when the boys sing in the car enroute 
from a concert. Incidentally, he is the 
man responsible for mathematically cor­
rect ties and spotless waist-coats.
The clubs also carry a Stage Manager, 
usually as an ornament. H. L. Cornwall, 
with his little moustache, would be an orna­
ment to any society, but he has his utili­
tarian values as well. His duties are cen­
tered mainly about the famous Part II 
of the Home Concert, and, while we are 
not at liberty to elaborate upon his plans, 
the setting of the "music of the second half 
will be novel and appropriate, and the 
boys will be trained to behave as though 
used to their surroundings.
A Publicity Manager is a necessary evil, 
and L. W. Orrill makes the best of it. 
A press agent nowadays requires an agile 
brain, especially if one cannot feature 
sensational stories about the personages 
to be advertised. To Mr. Orrill comes the 
credit for all advance literature, this story
excepted, about the clubs and their con­
certs in home or foreign lands. The ar­
rangement of this issue is largely his work, 
as will be the display cards and press no­
tices in the Pittsburgh dailies.
Did you ever watch the clubs starting 
out on a trip, and notice two men loaded 
down with two large cases each? Those 
are J. A. Cameron, Librarian of the Glee 
Club, and E. D. Lambert, Librarian of the 
Mandolin Club. The cases contain the 
music of the clubs which they are charged 
to guard with their very lives, nay, not to 
leave them even for a terrestrial angel of a 
female of the species. Also- these men 
have the doubtful pleasure of calling roll 
at rehearsals, and putting black marks 
against the names of the absent and the 
tardy.
With this brief glimpse at the wheels 
that make the hands go round, one may 
only guess at the brilliant schemes that 
are begotten, fostered or forgotten in order 
that “this year’s club shall be as much 
better than last year’s as it was better 
than the one before.”
<SU» «M/»
é>cl)enlep &rt é>f)op
3705 5th Ave.
->.J
“Picture Framing that Pleases”
Special college posters in 
Tech colors
í»C“1
1913
Derby and Soft 
Hats for Spring
-----------o-----------
It's time you gave your old 
hat a lift, change it for the 
snappiest style you ever wore*
-----------o-----------
Aiiiiiammer & Evans
6100 Penn Ave.
Open Monday and PhoneSaturday Evenings 1071 Hiland
Young Men
are cordially invited to join the Bellefieid 
Presbyterian Church Chorus Choir. Se e
MR. MAYHEW
at the church, cor. 5th Ave. and Bellefieid 
Street Saturday evenings at 7:30.
Enterprise Pressing Company
Cleaners and Dyers
Perfect Work in Ladies’ Children’s and 
Household Work 
Oriental Rugs and Draperies a Specialty 
203 Highland BIdg. Pittsburgh, Pa.
Phones: Offiec 449 Hiland Works: 4912 Hiland
“Patronize our Advertisers.”
MUSICAL CLUBS’ OFFICERS
Reading from left to right standing; F. H. HAAREN, Sec’v and Treas., L. E. GRIS­
WOLD, Mgr., L. A. ORRILL, Publicity Mgr., E. D. LAMBERT, Librarian of Mandolin 
Club. Left co right sitting; R. M. CRAWFORD, President, A. E. HAMILTON, Business 
Mgr., J. A. CAMERON, Librarian of Glee Club.
When Making Purchases Mention THE TARTAN, it helps.

---------------------------------------------------

4THE TARTAN
INDOOR BASEBALL STARTED
First Call for Players
Last Saturday morning witnessed the 
first indoor practice of the Varsity candi­
dates. About 30 men responded to the 
first call, most of them new men. Almost 
all of last year’s squad are in school and 
will be out later. The morning was spent 
in tossing a ball to loosen up stiff muscles. 
Naturally, all of the men were wild, and 
the “breakage fee” was in constant danger, 
but when the hopefuls have been working 
a few days this wildness should be lost 
and the coaches will be able to judge the 
men better. As the gym cannot be se­
cured for any regular practice, indoor 
work will be confined to such times as 
will be posted on the bulletin boards. 
The battery is giving Coaches Marks and 
McCulloch most worry, as new men must 
be developed. Urquhart, who performed 
so well two years ago, is again in school 
and with the new material that has re­
ported, the flinging end should be well 
supplied. A great need of catchers is 
still felt, and all aspirants for that position 
will be welcomed.
Foul Goals—Irvin 13 out of 18, Criswell 
out of 9.
Referee—Davis. »
WESTINGHOUSE EASY VICTIM 
Tech Wins in First Five Minutes
M. M. C. S. NEWS
Miss Beatrice Herford in her famous 
monologues will be presented by the Smith 
College Club at Carnegie Music Hall, 
March 5th. Tickets $1.00. No reserved 
seats. Miss Herford is “side aching” in 
the laughter she calls forth.
Miss Frances Higgins, our Assistant 
Dean, is spending this week in Philadel­
phia, at the convention of school superin­
tendents. Before she comes home, Miss 
Higgins is to speak to the Teachers’ Col­
lege Club of Columbia University.
THE INEVITABLE
You might as well subscribe right now 
for that Thistle girls, for if not, it seems 
that you are doomed to be hounded to 
your grave by that Lachman, that Cole, 
and that Little woman. There is no peace 
for the “Tightwad.”
COLLEGE CLUB M. M. C. S.
Starting immediately after the initial 
whistle, Thursday night, February 13, the 
Varsity ran a scoring bee that completely 
bewildered the Westinghouse five, and 
left them so far behind that a later rally 
failed to bring the game into reach. In­
cidentally, it was the best game that the 
Plaid five has played on the home floor. 
Captain Colvin was in real form for the 
first time for the season, and easily led 
the constellations. The team was con­
siderably shaken up as a result of the 
mid-year exams. Metheny was shifted 
to forward, and Douthett played his first 
game of the season at guard. Both men 
worked well, but the latter showed a 
slight lack of aggressiveness that may have 
been due to the glare of the foot-lights. 
The feature of the game was the sensa­
tional passing and team-work of the home 
team. The Westinghouse team failed to 
secure the ball for a time long enough to 
score a field goal until the last three min­
utes in the first half, while the Carnegie 
five had scored six times in the first five 
minutes. In the second period, the visi­
tors started a rally that netted ten points 
in seven minutes, but was not long-lived 
enough to overcome the lead of their 
opponents.
The line-up:—
Carnegie Tech—46 Westinghouse—27
Metheny............. F. ....................Atherton
Criswell............... F...............Irwin (Capt.)
Colvin (Capt.).... C............................Brown
Heisel................... G..........................Hansell
Douthett............. G.........................Harvey
Field Goals—First Half: Colvin 5, Heisel
4, Criswell 3, Metheny, Douthett, Ather­
ton, Brown.
Foul Goals—First Half: Criswell 2 out 
of 5, Irwin 6 out of 8.
Score First Half—C. I. T.—30. W. 
C.—10.
Field Goals—Toral: Colvin 7, Criswell
5, Heisel 5, Metheny 2, Douthett 2, Irwin
4, Brown 2, Atherton.
The week before the examinations the 
Margaret Morrison School Team met the 
College Club Team in a fast game of basket 
ball. This was the first time that our 
girls have played against an outside team, 
and we were not ashamed of our team. 
The game was called for three thirty, and 
Miss Storer refereed.
The final score was 25 to 21 in favor of 
the College Club.
The School team was exceedingly proud 
of the playing of Miss Marion Pichel, one 
of their forwards. Despite several in­
juries Miss Pichel played a remarkable 
game which was appreciated and admired 
by all who saw it.
The school team felt as if they were 
playing under difficulties The night be­
fore the girls enjoyed an elaborate feast, 
too good a feast to be of an advantage to 
basket ball players, and consequently 
our girls felt decidedly bum for their first 
match game.
After the game tea was served in the 
little house by Miss Lyon.
The M. M. C. S. line-up was as follows:
Forward..................................................Pichel
Forward..................................................Berry
Center...................................................Pardon
Side Center...............................................Jack
Guard...................................................Menges
Guard..................................................Spilman-----------o-----------
NEGLIGENCE
The Shape of Bottom 
NEW CUSTOM SHOE
STOEBENER
Man "With Quality Shoes
6227 Penn Avenue T7 nhc l
6222 Frankstown Avenue .LclSt JLllCl
keep their records of such events. When 
the time of the year approaches for an 
order for a given kind of goods, in quanti­
ties, by a committee, all the merchants 
handling those goods expect an oppor­
tunity to bid and if their price is bettered 
they are satisfied but if no one approaches 
them and they are regular advertisers in 
Tech publications they can hardly be ex­
pected to continue. The Thistle loses a 
page advertisement this year for no other 
reason and the Tartan is also a loser to a 
far greater extent.
This fact must be realized by every stu­
dent: The Thistle, Tartan, and all pro­
grams are supported not by their circula­
tion but by the advertisers and also that 
each publication is restricted financially 
in an almost direct proportion to the evi­
dences of student good will and support to 
the advertising merchants All non­
advertising dealers expect the same privi­
leges and at least should be allowed to 
quote their prices. On such an evidence 
of student good will many of them would 
advertise who do not do so at present be­
cause of the above reasons.
The popular “Belmont” notch Collar 
made in self striped Madras. 2 for 25cARROWC OLLARS
Cluett, Peabody & Co., Makers
The lack of street car courtesy generally 
in Pittsburgh makes a careful observer 
of the above rather conspicuous but if 
every Tech man would put them into 
practice others would follow the lead.
STREET CAR COURTESY
Little Pointers Which if Observed 
Would Help to Make Street Car 
Travel Much More Endurable
Every publication in Tech has lost ad­
vertising, the total of which probably ap­
proaches Three Hundred Dollars, through 
the negligence of committees and organi­
zations in not observing sufficient business 
ethics about allowing all the local firms an 
opportunity of bidding on what they want. 
This has been brought home to the writer 
several times during the last two weeks 
while soliciting advertising for two of our 
publications. At this time of the year 
there are usually a number of committees 
each of which give orders for goods amount­
ing to at least Fifty Dollars. Few students 
realize how rapidly the merchants find 
out what is going on or how well they
Have you ever stood on the corner, in a 
hurry to go somewhere, and have a car 
for which you have waited possibly ten 
minutes go shooting by, jammed to the 
doors in the rear and having several empty 
seats up front? We know you have and 
we are also certain as to what you said 
at the time but it would not be policy to 
print it. On the other hand you have 
probably boarded a car and, remaining 
on the rear platform, were highly amused 
to see someone else left behind. That 
was a law of human nature to laugh at 
someone else or vice-versa but how much 
better it would have been if you had gone 
away up to the front of the car and sat 
down in one of the empty seats or at least 
taken advantage of the abundance of 
room there and then the fellow on the 
corner could have ridden also.
A movement started by an eastern col­
lege a year ago resulted in a marked im­
provement in the car conditions of its city 
and set an example for the remaining 
street car public which was a credit to the 
institution.
We trust all Tech men are gentlemen 
enough to give their seat to a lady but 
here again you can set an example by not 
waiting to see if the fellow next to you is 
going to rise. The failure of a woman to 
thank you, a common occurence, should 
make no difference.
M. M. C. S. DIRECTORY 
Class Presidents—
Senior—Laura Green 
Tri-Senior—Margaret Eggleston 
Junior—Margaret Harrison 
Soph—Lorna Williams 
Plebe—Jean Wagner
SOCIETIES 
Glee Club—
Manager—Estelle Brodhead 
Secretary & Treasurer—Anna Lachman 
Pianist—Margaret Eggleston 
Librarians—Marian Lloyd 
Eliza Dickey
Dramatic Club—
President—Margeret H. Webb 
Stage Manager—Anna Bromley 
Secretary & Treasurer—Marion Lloyd 
Mistress of Wardrobe—Eleanor Law
M. M. C. S. Guild
President—Amelia Lehman 
Secretary & Treasurer—Lucy Pardoe
Pan Hellenic Society
Members—
Theta Sigma 
Psi Delta Gamma 
Delta Delta 
Alpha Psi
Students’ Activities Committej
Chairman—Margaret Webb 
Estelle Brodhead 
Amelia Lehman
Thistle
Anna Lachman 
Ellen Cole 
Grace Little
Athletics
Basket Ball
Senior Captain—Cora Gerwig 
Junior Captam—Ruby Jack 
Soph Captain -Florence Lytle
When Making Purchases Mention THE TARTAN, it helps.

---------------------------------------------------

THE TARTAN5
ANNUAL HOME CONCERT
Continued from page 1.
for the way they deliver their music but 
contends that the Carnegie Glee Club 
sings as difficult pieces with equal techni­
que. But, be that as it may, we may well 
leave each person to decide these compari­
sons for himself on Wednesday night,- 
March 12th.
We can well say that there is absolutely 
no excuse for any student to be absent
DIRECTORS OF THE CLUBS
Continued from Page 1.
tion in the Konservatorium of Leipzig, 
Germany, graduating in violin, harmony 
and counterpoint. During this time, he 
directed the large Sylvester mandolin 
club of about 400 members. Returning 
to the United States, he joined the Pitts­
burgh Orchestra, retaining prominent posi­
tions in that organization until its dis­
bandment in 1910. Since that time, he 
has devoted himself to instruction and 
orchestra work with various musical 
societies of the city. Signor Sclazo is a 
composer of considerable ability as he has 
shown in the “Tech Waltz” and the 
“Reverie”, written for the Carnegie Tech 
Mandolin Club.
Mr. Robert J. McDowell is probably 
the best known leader of choruses in the 
city. He has been engaged with a larg? 
number and variety of musical organiza­
tions, and has been successful in all. As a 
director of college glee clubs, he has had 
an unusual amount of experience. As a 
student in Princeton University, he was a 
Tenor soloist, and in his last year, acted 
as leader of the Glee Club. Dor some 
time after leaving college he was a member 
of the world-famcu; Moody Quartette of 
Chicago, and afterward was engaged as 
director of the Glee Club of Washington
from this concert, those who go once 
always go, those who have never gone 
will do well to investigate the delights of a 
Home Concert, and those who miss 
this one will never cease to regret their 
failure to make the most of this wonderful 
opportunity.
The sale of tickets by students in the 
various departments will commence on 
Monday February 24th and continue to 
Saturday March 1st. These tickets are 
exchanged for reserved seat coupons at 
various parts of the schools from March 
4th to March 8th after which they will he
and Jefferson College. He is now engaged 
in chorus work and private instruct on, 
as well as being on the staff of the schools 
as Instructor in Choral Singing. One 
needs only to be a member of his classes, 
as in the Science Lecture course, to under­
stand that his success and that of the 
Glee Club is due to his live ersonality 
and his grasp of the possibilities of musical 
expression.
The clubs have been fortunate in having 
these two leaders for three years, and it is 
to be hoped that both men will continue 
their connection with the organization for 
many years to come.
All Thistle receipts must be bought 
by March 15th if you expect to have a 
book. See that you get a receipt from 
your class representative.
SCALZO DESIGNS NEW MANDOLIN
New Model has met all Demands Both 
in this Country and Abroad
In a recent number of the Cadenza, an 
instrumental musical magazine published 
in the East an article appears about our 
own G. Scalzo which says in part, “The
on sale at Hamilton’s music store on Wood 
street, also at Carnegie Music Hall on the 
night of the concert.
After the concert a strictly formal dance 
will be held in the Schenley ball room, 
and as has been announced before in these 
columns only orte hundred tickets for the 
dance will be sold. These tickets can be 
obtained only by those buying the best 
seats. The sale will commence on Mon­
day, March 4th and continue until all are 
sold.
Clubs and fraternities wishing solid re­
servations are requested to make their
G. Scalzo Vega model mandolin has met 
the full demands of Gregorio Scalzo after 
an exhaustive test of all makes of here 
and abroad. This artist has met with the 
greatest success in Europe and South 
America and will be remembered by the 
players of this country through his first 
appearance at the “Guild Convention” 
held in New York City three years ago. 
In talking with Mr. Scalzo a few days ago 
he had the following to say: “Yes, this new 
mandolin which I designed for the Vega 
Mandolin Manufacturers of Boston, Mass. 
is the result of several years’ work, it has 
several features which a player of very 
high standing only can detect. These man­
dolins are on sale in several foreign coun­
tries as well as the United States and a 
local house has had several exhibitions of 
this instrument. The manufacturers sent 
a representative to this city who was here 
seveml days to get this new idea and I 
predict this new mandolin has a great 
future in foreign countries as well as in 
this country. Yes it is a very expensive 
mandolin but that will make little differ­
ence.”
Mr. Scalzo has exhibited this new type 
of a mandolin in school to several students 
and it will be used by him in the Annual 
Home Concert at Carnegie Music Hall, 
March 12th.
purchases as soon as the seat sale opens 
or they may write for the desired number 
enclosing a check of the proper size. This 
advice is given on account of the fact 
that the house will be badly broken up 
a few hours after the seat exchange opens. 
Members of the Alumnae and others are 
already writing for seats and these orders 
will be filled promptly after the seat ex­
change opens on March 4th.
In the next issue of this paper will be 
given the progam. Get ready now. Do 
not miss this Concert are the final words 
of warning.
Don’t you want a Thistle bound in 
flexible leather cover? If so you had 
better buy that receipt now. The sale 
will only last a few weeks longer.
Don’t be one of the guys that will read 
some one else’s book. Have one for your 
very own. It will set you back only $1 
now and $1 at the delivery of the book.
-----------------o-----------------
Regular Orchestra Rehearsals every 
Monday afternoon at 5:00, in Room 
104 A. I. Building. We need many 
more men. Why don’t YOU come.
It is now the Lenten season and every 
one must give up something. Give up 
your dollar for a Thistle receipt and be 
happy.
Tell the old gent you must buy a new 
book or something and then use the money 
for a Thistle receipt. Its worth twice 
what we ask for it.
“Patronize our Advertisers”
When Making Purchases Mention THE TARTAN, it helps.

---------------------------------------------------

6THE TARTAN
CARNEGIE ATHLETES MAKE 
GREAT SHOWING
Finish Near Head in Y. M. C. A. Meet
All of the men entered in the indoor 
meet held under the auspices of the Y. M. 
C. A. at Exposition Hall last Saturday 
night made such remarkable records that 
leads to the most rosy predictions concern­
ing our track team this spring. The most 
wonderful feat of the evening was the 
race run by E. R. Hazeltine in the two-mile 
event. This little, quiet chap has been 
watched for some time as a coming record 
breaker, but his performance of the other 
night has brought him full into the field 
as a star of the first magnitude. With a 
handicap of 50 yards he won the race 
easily in the remarkable time of 9:28 1-5. 
Wait, former Tech captain, was listed as 
scratch man, but did not compete; McKel- 
vey and Floto, both of W. &. J., were the 
virtual scratch men, starting with handi­
caps of 25 yards.
Tech men had the high jump all to 
themselves, King winning with a jump of 
5 feet 10 inches and a handicap of 3 inches, 
while Murphy took second place from 
scratch with a leap of 5 feet 11 inches.
None of our men entered the 80 yard 
dash or the quarter-mile. Povntz finished 
fourth in the half-mile handicap, missing 
a place by inches in spite of a game race. 
Simpson and Williams ran well in the 
two-mile event, but the number of contest­
ants kept them from placing. Duerr 
finished fifth in this event, making things 
interesting for the leaders for some dis­
tance.
While we were beaten out by Pitt in the 
relay race, the results were far from dis­
couraging to our men. Rush, running 
first of our quartet, was running the first 
big event of his experience and was pitted 
against the best veterans of the other 
teams. On the unbanked corners he was 
at a serious disadvantage from lack of 
weight, being carried wide of the turns. 
His gameness in not quitting at any mo­
ment shows his stamina and speaks well 
of his later prospects. Mayer, another 
new man, passed the W. &. J. runner on 
the second relay and gained on the lead­
ers. Humble, also a novice, also reduced 
the distance in a remarkable race. Cap­
tain Crawford ran last for the team and 
passed the Indiana man on the turn, 
leaving him behind on the stretch, and 
reduced the lead of Thomas, Pitt’s runner 
to a few yards at the tape. Fast time was 
made for the race, but our men, with more 
experience can do better.
Some of the results follow:—
80 yard dash: first semi-final—Won by 
H. H. Ingersoll, Cornell, 3 ft; second, 
Howard Bostock, P. A. A., 8 ft. Time, 
8 2-5 seconds.
Second semi-final—Won by R. A. Car­
roll, P. A. A., 2 ft; second, J. W. Rosenthal, 
Pitt, 8 ft. Time, 8 1-5 seconds.
Third semi-final—Won by Donald Lip- 
pincott, U. of Penn, scratch; second, Harry 
Shof, Pitt, 12 ft. Time. 8 1-5 seconds.
Final Heat—Won by Harry Shof, Pitt, 
12 ft.; second, H. H. Ingersoll, Cornell, 
3 ft.; third, R. A. Carroll, P. A. A., 2 ft. 
Time 8 2-5 seconds.
Two-mile handicap—Won by E. R. Haz­
eltine, Tech, 50 yards; second, C. L. 
Reader, Westinghouse Club, 120 yard; 
third, D. L. Thomas, P. H. S., 75 yard. 
Time, 9:28 1-5.
Running High Jump—Won by J. L. 
King, Tech, (3 in.); second, H. E. Mtfrphy, 
Tech (scratch); third, F. J. Myers, In­
diana Normal, (2 in.). Height, 6 ft. 1 in.
Half-mile Run—Won by Floto, W. & J. 
(30 yards); second, Ted Meredith, Penn, 
(scratch); third, J. M. Connor, Westing­
house Club, (40 yard). Time, 1:56 2-5.
Western Pennsylvania College Relay 
Race—Won by Pitt, (Marshall, McDon­
ald, McKinney and Thomas); second, 
Tech (Rauh, Mayer, Humble and Craw­
ford); third, Indiana Normal (Brown, 
White, Wilson and Lewis). Time, 3:37 3-5 
Two-mile Relay Race—Penn vs. Cor- 
nell—Won by Cornell (Speeden, Burgdorf, 
Snyder, J. P. Jones); second, Penn (Hep­
burn, Steele, Cross, Foster). Time, 8:04 3-5.
A LIVELY SMOKER
INDUSTRIES UPPER CLASS ELECTS 
OFFICERS
Wednesday of last week immediately 
following the mass meeting the Upper 
Classmen held a meeting and elected the 
following men to hold office the remainder 
of the year:—
A. E. Hamilton............................President
Guy Elliott............................Vice President
A. C. Wagner.......Secretary & Treasurer
H. J. Sellors.......Tartan Representative
PRICES FOR ENGINEER ORATORS
Ithaca—To stimulate interest in public 
speaking among students studying me­
chanical and civil engineering and^ archi­
tecture at Cornell University, G. H. 
Baker, a graduate of the Cornell Civil 
Engineering College in the class of 1886, 
has founded a prize for which he has given 
$2,000. There are to be eight competitors 
each year, the winner to receive SI00 and 
the second man $20.
“Just Right” Clothing
For College Men
Suits $13.50 to $35.00 
Overcoats $15.00 to $45.00
“Just Right” Clothing comes direct from maker to wearer. Therefore 
saving the middlemen’s profit. This item is worthy of consideration.
McCREERY & CO.
Wood and Sixth Street
City Office;
631 Penn AvenueEast End Office;
S. Highland Ave. and Baum Street
The “beanery” was a lively scene on 
Friday evening, February 21st, when the 
students of the Plumbing course of the 
Night School of Applied Industries got 
together for a smoker. This is the first 
time in seven years that this particular 
department, could be corralled, and it is 
likely that a Plumbers’ Club will be the 
result of the success of the evening. Much 
credit is due to the committee on arrange­
ments, consisting of Messrs. Rieland, Linn, 
McDonough, Eggers, Holman and Lang. 
Among those present were the following 
members of the faculty: Dean Connelly, 
Professor Calderwood, Messrs. Teemer, 
Dosey, Pfouts, Dodds, Weaver, F. J. 
Hartman, Steiner and Lewis.
After an excellent menu with “pieces 
de resistence” galore, the following pro­
gram was carried out.
Quartette: Messrs. Clifford, Simon,
Robinson and Rielaiid.
Piano Solo: S. Holeton, Jr., of the Day 
School.
Boxing Bouts: (a) Wylie Ave. Kids.
(b) Lambert and McMillan.
Monologue: “Sox” Price.
Tenor Solo: Mr. Clifford.
Toasts by Dean Connelly and the vari­
ous members of the Faculty.
Oswald Werner & Sons Co.
Pittsburgh’s Oldest and Largest 
Dyeing and Cleaning Works
New Private Branch Exchange. Call Hiland 1138
Main Office and Works: Cor* Bryant, St.Clair and Mellon Sts* 
THE NEW DANCES OF THE DAY
Mr. Del Brugge will teach the following program of fine Ball Room Dances
Waltz Exercizes Boston Long Boston One-Step
Standard Tango TangoThe Harvard Boston Manhattan Glide Waltz
T wo-Step-Boston Havana Qirl Pas Boston Lord Ragion Waltz
HOURS 9 TO 11:30 O’CLOCK. TUITION $1.00 PER COUPLE. SPLENDID MUSIC.
Dance and Dance Recital Hotel Schenley, large Ball Room 
SATURDAY EVENING, MARCH 1st
First of a Series.
Private lessons and private classes by appointment. Tuition Reasonable.
GREGORIO SCALZO
-----Leader Carnegie Tech Mandolin Club----
Music for all occasions. Exceptional Dance Orchestras at
reasonable price.
Address—Atwood & Cable Telephone—Schenley 1638-R
Everybody’s doing it! ! ! Doing what?
Buying a Thistle receipt, of course
When Making Purchases Mention THE TARTAN, it helps.
Mellon National Bank
514 Smithfield Street
409 Fifth Avenue
Capital and Surplus $7,800,000
If you don’t trade here we both lose
RANDOLPH & McCLEMENTS
-o—Floral Experts—o-
5936 Penn Ave., near Highland 
Private Branch Exchange Hiland 25
The Tango
McDottgall Dancing Classes
Shady and Penn 
Wood and 5th 
4616 Forbes Street
Bell Phone 2797 Cedar. P. &. A. Phone 952-A
H. A. BECKER,
MUSIC HOUSE 
EVERYTHING KNOWN IN MUSIC 
Headquartefs for Band and Orchestra 
Instruments, Music and Supplies
"c^^Mfdd”1 N. S., Pittsburgh,Pa.
“Patronize our Advertisers.”
YOU’RE NEXT
Tech Sanitary Barber Shop
Harry F. Van Curen, Prop.
Cor. Craig and Forbes Street 
Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania
Every service a bank may render its 
customers is performed by
The Oakland 
Savings & Trust Co.
Iroquois Block 
Cheerfully, promptly and on the 
best of terms.
Capital $200,000.00
Surplus and Profits $200.000.00
Deposits over $1,300,000.00
Sporting Goods, Cutlery, College 
Pennants, Banners & Pillow Tops. 
HUKILL=HUNTER CO.
414 Wood St.
BUTTER, EGGS,
COFFEE, TEAS,
POULTRY, ETC. 
ALL AT RIGHT PRICES
Oakland Butter Market
3714 FORBES STREET Phone 710 Schenley. We Deliver

---------------------------------------------------

THE TARTAN
THEATRES
ALVIN—“Little Boy Blue”, a musical 
piece with Scotch atmosphere in which 
Otis Harlan is featured.
NIXON—Nazimova in “Bella Donna” 
a hectic play sinuously acted. Not in­
tended for boys and girls.
DUQUESNE—The Stock Company 
will play the symbolical drama “Passing 
of the Third Floor Back.”
——o-----
LYCEUM------“McFadden’s Row of
Flats” an old knock about farce.
GRAND—Katheryn Kidder, an ex­
cellent actress will appear in a tabloid 
version of “Madame Sans Gene.”
BASKETBALL HOP FOR UNDER­
CLASSMEN
-----o-----
Muskingum to Furnish Attraction.
Next Friday the long-promised basket­
ball Hop will be given for the special 
benefit of those underclassmen not eligible 
for the Junior Prom. The game will be 
between the Varsity and the Muskingum 
College five, and should be an interesting 
one, easily warranting attendance. But 
the real feature of the evening will be the 
dance after the game. A two-piece or­
chestra will furnish the music that will 
make you dance in spite of rheumatism, 
old age or Lent. The lights will be kept 
on until midnight,in order that all may be 
perfectly tired at the end of the evening. 
The absence of expense should add to the 
general enjoyment. The regular admit­
tance will be charged for the game and 
will be good for the dance. Here is the 
chance of the year. Only a girl needed: 
no flowers, no carriage, no spike-tailed coat 
and no silk hat. It’s your fault if you 
miss it.
PLEBES WIN PRELIMINARY
—,o-----
Defeat Westinghouse II by 20—18.
Humphries, Hertz 3, Rider 4, Lower, 
Dunlap.
Foul Goals—Hall 2 out of 8, Hertz 
missed 3, Lower missed 3.
Beg, borrow, plunder, pillage, steal or 
any old thing just so you get the necessary 
bean for your Thistle receipt. Hock shops 
are always open and money can even be 
raised on old shoes in a pinch. Make 
use of this valuable information in getting 
vour dollar for the Thistle.
INDUSTRIES SENATE ELECTION
After the mass meeting of the Industrial 
students February 20, the Upper and 
Middle Classes held a joint meeting and 
elected the following men to the Student 
Senate:—
P. F. Murphy.....................Upper Drafting
A. E. Anderson...................Upper Drafting
Thos. Fish.........................Teachers’ Course
*Guy Elliott.......................Forging, Upper
William McGuire.............Middle Machine
*W. K. Charlton.............Middle Machine
*Re-elected.
The members of the old Student Senate, 
whose office expired with the end of the 
past semester, wish to thank the Faculty 
and others who have helped make the or­
ganization the success it is by their willing­
ness to co-operate with them at all times. 
The new Senators will enter upon their 
duties with greater responsibilities thrust 
upon them, but assured of success by the 
help which they will receive from each one 
of the many students who voted them into 
office.
In a game resembling football more 
than what it was intended to be, the 
Plebes won from the Westinghouse Sec­
onds by a score of 20—18, as a preliminary 
to the Westinghouse-Carnegie Tech game 
last Wednesday night. Atch and Hall 
were the stars of the contest, if one were
to judge by the time spent rolling on the
floor. Hertz and Rider also were in the 
game. The line-up:—
Plebes—20 West. 11—18
Atch..................... F. ................Mowrey
Huston................ F...............................Hertz
Humphries......... C. .....................Rider
Abel...................... G..............................Lower
Hall...................... G...........................Dunlap
Field Goals—Atch 3, Hall 3, Huston 2,
MUSKINGUM WINS BY NOSE 
Take Ganje 26—24
On Friday, February 21, at Muskin­
gum, the Varsity lost out by one field 
goal. The game was well played, the 
teams being closely matched in nearly 
all respects. The home team had the 
advantage of their own floor, wl)ich in a 
low hall, was considerable. In spite of 
this, the lead went from one team to the 
other, neither having more than four 
points more than its opponents at any 
time. The first half ended with the score 
tied at 13 all, and the second period was a 
repetition of the first, ending with Muskin­
gum two points ahead. Both teams were 
penalized often for illegal play, the chief 
offense being holding. Metheny was the 
best player for our team, with Heisel a 
closcf second. Criswell’s foul shooting 
was also a feature. Arnold was the bril­
liant performer for the Muskingum team, 
and Captain Montgomery also played well.
The line-up:—
Carnegie Tech—24 Muskingum—26
Criswell............... F. ... Montgomery Capt
Metheny............. F...........................Arnold
Colvin.................. C.............................Aiken
Douthett............. G.........................Sinclair
Heisel................... G............................Miller
First Half—Field Goals: Heisel 2, Meth­
eny, Arnold 2, Aiken, Montgomery.
Foul Goals;—Criswell 7 out of 9, Mont­
gomery 5 out of 13, Arnold missed 1, Ain- 
clair missed 1. Score for half—13—13.
Second Half—Field Goals: Metheny 2, 
Criswell, Colvin, Arnold 2, Aiken 2.
Foul Goals—Criswell 3 out of 4, Mont­
gomery 4 out of 7, Aiken 1 out of 4.
Score for Half—Muskingum— 3 ,Car­
negie—11.
Referee—Watkins.
P. Ludebuehl & Son
Penn and Frankstown, E. E.
“GEE=WHIZ,==at $4.00”
one of our 40 NEW FALL STYLES in 
Men’s Boots. This is strictly a young 
man’s boot, with lots of style, and good 
fitting qualities.
^fBuilt for us by a famous Brockton Man­
ufacturer.
Step in Our Men’s Department
HOTEL SCHENLEY
PITTSBURGH, PA.
Under the Management of the Schenley Hotel and Restaurant Company 
Roman H. Heyn, President 
ROOM RATES $2.00 PER DAY AND UPWARDS
Practically all the functions of the Carnegie Institute of Technology are 
held at the Schenley. Our rates have been considerably reduced, and we have 
engaged Mr. Widmer, the chef of the Union Restaurant, to be in charge °f our 
kitchen department; Mr. Widmer having been at the Union Restaurant for 10 
years, is perfectly acquainted with the wants and demands of our local support" 
ers, and we are therefore in the best position to take care of YOUR trade at 
reasonable rates.PHONE 285 SCHENLEY
True Values 
men’s furnishings
B & BTrue Values
$1.00 and $1.50 Shirts—pleated and plain bosom—attached or detached 
cuffs—good patterns—sizes 14 to 17, 65c.
$1.00 and $1.50 Underwear—Union Suits, Shirts and Drawers—Standard 
makes, 75c a garment.
Stuttgarter Underwear—$2.50 garments, $1.50.
$1.50 garments, $1.00.
Lustre Repp Neckwear—fine soft, slightly “ribby” silk having soft dull 
lustre—many beautiful plain colors—wide open end or reversible shape scarfs, 50c.
Boggs & Buhl, 
Pittsburgh, Penn'a.
MARCH 12
Musical Clubs Hume Concert
Seat Sale Opens Mar. 1 st
This year’s Thistle promises greal 
things. There will be many unique feat-, 
ures which have not appeared heretofore. 
Such as full page cleverly arranged groups, 
picturing the students of the different 
schools at work, the Design building, 
scenes about the Campus, snappy pictures 
taken at Camp. The book will contain 
pictures that will be looked upon in after 
years with much pleasure and will bring 
back fond memories of your Alma Mater 
because of the local color they express. 
Buy now and be sure of your copy.
Chocolates
The old system of using a heated 
iron and dirty cloth presfps the grime 
and dirt into your garments. Our 
sanitary machine steams it all out, and 
removes permanently the dirt, pers­
piration, odor and grime. See Shu­
man the Dry Cleaner, 3911 Forbes 
street.
What! Haven’t you got your Thistle 
receipt yet? Do you want to be one of 
those “weighed in the balance” and 
found shy when the book comes out? 
Get one, quick.
What about giving that girl a nice 
copy of the 1913 Thistle done up in style 
for a little gift. She would appreciate 
it and your stand in would increase 100 
per cent.
“BETWEEN FRIENDS”
One of the few things that can come between friends. In fact the oftener it comes the better 
she likes it.
R E Y M E R S
A dozen
PHOTOGRAPHS
Will endear you to twelve friends when made
-AT-
JAMIESON STUDIO
126 S. Highland Ave
When Making Purchases Mention THE TARTAN, it helps.

---------------------------------------------------

THE TARTAN
In Magnificent Prizes 
The Pittsburgh Sun’s
BOOKLOVERS’ CONTEST
gMns-twciwini; 111 ———i—iw ' him aBaa imr i'll III i —ea^—a—I—^——
A Puzzle Picture Game That You Will Enjoy 
Playing—No Work, No Fees, Just a Game.
GRAND PRIZE
This
W. F. FREDERICK
AUTOTONE PLAYER-PIANO
An Exquisitely Toned Instrument With a 
National Reputation
Value $635
Other Prizes:—Four $150 Diamond Rings, 31 Columbia Grafanolas, 36 
Sets of Beautifully-Bound Books, 4 Monarch Vacuum Cleaners, $75 Each, 
2000 Subscriptions to The Pittsburgh Post—A Total of2076 Awards, $5435.
STARTING MONDAY, MARCH 3
The Sun will publish daily one of a series of 77 puzzle pictures, each representing
the title of a well-known book. The puzzles are easy to so've. Anyone can do it.
The game will prove a fascinating pastime for your leisure hours:—aid ex 
tremely profitable. Get in at the beginning.
If you are not a regular reader of The Sun, buy a copy from your ^ 
newsboy for full particulars, or better still, mail this coupon to Dept. B,
The Pittsburgh Sun and receive, free, detailed information. 4^/
Booklovers’ 
Contest Editor, 
Dept. B,
L—T O.vn
Pittsburgh, Pa. 
Send me roar free 
4-page circular con­
taining all in formation 
at the Booblovers’ Con­
test.
9
