h
ì ' ' The Carnegie Tartan
Vol. 38 No. 18CARNEGIE INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY, PITTSBURGH, PA.TUESDAY, JUNE 6, 1944
Ultra High Frequency 
Blowout On The Way 
For Campus Rangers
Discovering a substantial sum of 
money in the unit fund, and wish­
ing to alleviate the pressure under 
which the soldier-students have 
been working, the officers of the 
3302nd S. U. have decided that a 
summer party will be held in the 
very near future for the men of 
the unit.
In a meeting of representatives 
from the various sections, Capt. 
John D. Thomas, commanding offic­
er of Co. A, announced that plans 
were under way for an informal en­
tertainment, cost of admission to be 
non-existant. Entertainment, danc­
ing, and a buffet supper will high­
light the evening. For those who 
prefer a more liquid diet— and who 
doesn’t?—a keg of ambrosia will be 
supplied by the aforementioned 
Capt. Thomas. Additional fluid re­
freshment will be furnished as de­
sired and required, by the individ­
ual.
The party will be a strictly GI af­
fair, stags verboten. The date for 
the party has not yet been decided 
upon, but all indications point to­
ward Friday, June 30, the army’s 
next payday. No tickets will be on 
sale, since there are no tickets. 
Further details will be divulged as 
soon as received.
Civilians Invited To 
Attend Retreat
An invitation is extended by the 
Military Department to everyone to 
join the Army Unit here at Car­
negie Tech in following the univer­
sal custom of military service in 
holding a Retreat formation several 
evenings a week. Let each of us 
observe these few minutes of si­
lence as the due tribute to our coun­
try and our flag, in this ceremony, 
one of the most beautiful and im­
pressive we are privileged to observe 
in this country.
It is held at the close of the day, 
and the troops usually form near 
the post flag. The bugler blows 
“Attention.” The troops are brought 
to “Attention,” and then to the po­
sition known as “Parade Rest.” The 
bugler then blows “Retreat.” Im­
mediately upon the conclusion of 
the sounding of “Retreat,” the 
troops are brought to “Attention” 
and “Present Arms” if armed. If 
the troops are unarmed, they exe­
cute the hand salute.
If no band is present, the bugler 
sounds “To the Colors.” If a band 
is present, the National Anthem is 
played. At the first note of either 
“To the Colors” or the National 
Anthem, all personnel in uniform 
face the flag and salute, and all per­
sons not in uniform face the flag 
and render the proper courtesies.
During the playing of “To the 
Colors” or the National Anthem, 
the post flag is lowered for the day. 
The troops are then dismissed and 
resume their normal duties.
tf-on. tyn&iUm&n. Only
The Tartan Presents A Guide 
Tour Of Carnegie For Frosh
The Cut,-Engineering Hall, and the Tradition-Encrusted Senior Fence
When this issue of the Tartan 
appears on the campus, you Fresh­
men will be slumped in some 
chair, nursing the writer’s cramp 
in your arms, wondering who the 
heck wants to have your name and 
address, your parents’ name and 
address and various other vital sta­
tistics thirty-odd times on half a 
dozen slips of paper and pieces of 
cardboard. You will have heard 
how smart you must be to be able 
to come to Carnegie Tech, and sub­
sequently discovered your ignor­
ance by taking the placement ex­
ams. After being rushed by five or 
six fraternities, treated to innum­
erable sodas, lunches, movies and 
evenings by dozens of oh-so-nice 
and courteous fellows who seem to 
consider themselves your personal 
bodyguards, you will be now com­
pletely in the dark whether to join 
the Delta Beta Phis or the Kappa 
Tau Nus. In short, you will have 
come through the Battle of Regis­
tration and Freshman Week, dazed 
and befuddled, and with dire pre­
monitions about the days to come.
In order to prepare you for the 
trials and tribulations ahead we 
would like to take you on an expert­
ly guided tour of the campus. Just 
step to the rear of the bus and make 
yourself comfortable, for this will 
be your last chance to relax for 
many many months.
Most of your classes will be in In- 
dutsries Hall, the long, low building 
opposite Engineering Hall (that’s 
the building opposite Industries) 
with the many wings sticking out 
left and right. So let’s begin our 
expedition here. As we come in 
through the immense brass-and- 
glass doors you will recognize the 
place where you filled out those end­
less slips of paper (which, incident­
ally, contrary to malicious rumors 
will not be used for sanitary pur­
poses) and through which you 
shuffled back and forth trying to 
get rid of your tuition money. This 
part of the building is called Ad­
Brazil Welcomes 
Dr. Robert Mehl
Dr. Robert F. Mehl, Director of 
the Metals Research Laboratory 
and Head of the Metallurgical De­
partment, has just returned from 
a four month’s trip to Brazil. He 
was sent there by the Coordinator 
of Inter-American Affairs, Mr. Nel­
son A. Rockefeller, to give a series 
of lectures on metallurgy to the in­
dustrialists and a group of students 
and young engineers in the City of 
Sao Paulo, to assist in developing 
a research program, and to act as 
consultant for local industries,
ministration Hall, and, appropri­
ately enough most of the adminis­
trative offices are located here. To 
your right is the office of the man 
with whom you have dealt until to­
day, Prof. John M. Daniels, Chair­
man of Admissions, and to your left 
that of the man you will see from 
now on, Prof. John M. Daniels, 
Dean of the Students. There also, 
is the office that is always open 
when you have classes, and closed 
when you need money, the Cashier’s 
cubicle. Above, as you have been 
told already in revently hushed 
whispers, resides our President, Dr. 
Robert E. Doherty.
But let us leave this sacred hall, 
and plunge into the dismal tunnel 
of Industries Hall which so perfect­
ly reflects our mood the night be­
fore an exam. On the first floor 
there are nothing but classrooms 
upon classrooms, rooms where you 
will study trigonometry and alge­
bra all over again, where you will 
be taught how to write themes that 
are supposed to mean something, 
and where you will be initiated in­
to the mysterious ways of Social 
Relations. The second floor houses 
the haven of all the victims of the 
draft, the last resort of all the guys 
with Greetings, the office of the Di­
rector of the College of Engineering, 
Dr. Webster N. Jones. You, too, will 
be there before long. A little farther 
down the hall is the sanctum of the 
youngest man or the oldest boy in 
school, News Bureau boss Maxie 
“Lippy” Hannum, who you will 
soon number among your best 
friends at Carnegie Tech. The rest 
of the floor is again devoted to 
classrooms.
The third floor is quite different. 
You will come here for one course 
only, but you -will shed as much 
blood, sweat and tears as in all the 
rest of your classes together. For 
the desks and the flourescent lamps 
in these rooms are sorely needed ac­
cessories in that tribulation of trib- 
Continued on page 5
Dr. R. F. Mehl
meanwhile contributing to the im­
provement of Inter-American rela­
tionships.
Sao Paulo, an industrial city of 
1,500,000 inhabitants, in which 60% 
of Brazil’s industry is centered, is 
the leading industrial city of South 
America.
On arriving in Sao Paulo, Dr. 
Mehl organized a course in the met­
allurgy of iron and steel including 
both production metallurgy and the 
treating and use of steel, and pre- 
Continued on page 4
102 Freshman Enter 
Carnegie Tech Today
On Sunday, June 4, information 
on the newest freshman class to en­
ter Carnegie Tech was very scarce. 
The vital statistics, however, in­
clude the following: Out of the
hundreds of applicants this semes­
ter, the entering list is approximate­
ly 102, with cancellations coming 
every hour because of acceptances 
into V-12 and other government 
programs.
There will be four Brashear 
scholarship men entering this se­
mester. They are: Millard Brown 
Jr. from Georgia, Richard Herr­
mann of Omaha, Nebraska, George 
Hinman from Spartensburgh, South 
Carolina and Robert W. Johnson 
from Seattle, Washington.
The average age of this freshman 
class will be seventeen years and 
three months. Entering classes 
have been averaging about seven­
teen years of age for the past few 
Continued on page 5

---------------------------------------------------

THE CARNEGIE TARTANTUESDAY, JUNE 6, 1944
Welcome, Freshmen
To you who are about to enter the Carnegie Institute of Technology 
—congratulations, for you will be students at the best undergraduate 
technical college in this country. You may not think so at first; many 
things will seem to you superfluous, cumbersome, and unimportant. But 
as you progress in your undergraduate work you will realize that al­
though this institution, like everything else on this earth, has its faults 
and shortcomings, you are nevertheless receiving an outstanding edu­
cation.
The forty-odd classes which have labored in these halls before your 
arrival have set many precedents and instituted many traditions, and it 
shall be your responsibility to uphold those that are good. Although 
you shall lack the incentive of varsity teams and many extra-curricular 
activities you will nevertheless have the obligation to uphold that in­
tangible something which we are wont to call “college spirit” and which 
is the atmosphere and attitude which differentiates a true college from an 
intellectual factory. In order to do this you should try to uphold as many 
extra-curricular activities as possible: join fraternities, go out for the 
Tartan, the Technical and other publications, and above all, have an ac­
tive interest in all campus affairs.
Of the few shortcomings of the Carnegie Tech student body which 
have become tradition there is one which is so important and so danger­
ous that you shall be asked time and again to remedy it. This fault, 
common not only to college students but to the American people in gen­
eral, is the unbelievable apathy and disinterest towards the national and 
international political and economical events which do not lie within the 
immediate sphere of interest of the individual. You must realize—and 
act accordingly—that this or any other college is not a small universe 
apart from everything else, but an integral part of American society. 
We stated last week, and we repeat today, that you, the college students, 
are the intellectual minority of the American people, and that you, as 
such, have the tremendous responsibility to act as a sparkplug to your 
countrymen who do not have your opportunity to study and digest cur­
rent events. It is your inescapable duty to your country and to yourself 
to knQW what is going on in the world. Read the newspapers beyond 
the sports and comic pages, read Time and other news magazines, and 
the Tartan’s weekly series of articles of post-war planning. Recent 
Gallup and Denver polls show that two-thirds or more of the American 
people are ignorant of such fundamental things as the Bill of Rights, 
the Atlantic Charter, and a reciprocal trade agreement. Not only must 
you not belong to these ignorami, but you have the obligation to do 
everything in your power to reduce their number.
Throughout your undergraduate career you must remember one 
thing. Good marks are very important, but they do not mean every­
thing. There is hardly a person at Carnegie Tech or in industrial man­
agement who does not respect a man with a B average, but with an im­
pressive list of extra-curricular participation, at least as much as a book­
worm who managed to get straight A’s without finding time for anything 
but studying. Your years in college should not only give you a mastery 
of your subject, but it should teach you how to deal with people. A six- 
months “course” in human relations received by joining a fraternity is as 
valuable as Freshman Chemistry, and a few semesters’ work on the 
Tartan as important socially as Engineering Analysis is technically. Re­
member, your activities keys are the keys to your future success.
The Outlook . . .
The Problem Of The Peace
By Professor Norman H. Dawes
The New Military Editor Speaks
Frankly, I was a trifle overwhelmed at the force of fate which placed 
me where I am today. Where am I? OH! In the balmy and deceitful 
quiet of last Thursday afternoon, I was approached by a very wary, worn, 
and weary Electrical who travels under the nom de plume of Jimmy 
Vaughan. Without a word of introduction or warning, he notified me that 
an editorial would be due by Friday evening. Subsequent questioning re­
vealed that I had been accepted editor to work in his place, and that the 
trials, tribulations, and labs of an EE had proven too much for his al­
ready harassed soul, and he had been forced to discontinue his work.
I would like to take this opportunity to state that the members of the 
staff, without exception are regretful of the necessity of the change, and 
I shall do my utmost to make them equally regretful when my time comes.
In a desperate attempt to rid myself of all traces of my background, I 
promise to apply myself diligently to the acquisition of a style not in ac­
cordance with the prevalent conception of the Brooklynite. (Wanna make 
sumtin outta it?). Seriously, though, if you will overlook my infrequent 
attempts at humor, I will forgive any references to ersters, trees, and 
Dem Bums.
Opinions expressed in the pages of the TARTAN are those of the members of the in the case of the editorial column they are those of the Editor. They are not to be construed as necessarily the opinions of either the student body or the faculty.
The Carnegie Tartan
Carnegie Institute of Technology, Schenley Park, Pittsburgh 13, Pa.
PHONE MAYFLOWER 2600 PHONE SCHENLEY 4R57
MMUINTtD rOW NATIONAL ADVERTISING »V _
National Advertising Service, Inc. . . Atter offlce Hours Cal1
College Publishers Representative Editor-in-Chief ...........................EM. 9424
420 Madison ave. new 'Vol. n. 3. Business Manager..SC. 8951
TheCaar • Boa von • Lot Aiaacui • nag ita4Ct2Cr
Entered aa secon«-cMss matter In tbe Pittsburgh Post Offlce under the Act of March 3, 1879. Published weekly during school year, except holidays and examination period*. Subscription Price fl.10 per year.
Editor-in-Chief .........................................i............................................ Ernie Lowenstein
Military Editor...............................................................................Pfc. James W. Vaughan
How can we establish a just and 
an enduring peace? As never be­
fore in history that question is now 
being asked by a perplexed and 
anxious world. Upon the nature of 
the answer that is found depends 
the future of culture and civiliza­
tion.
At the conclusion of this conflict 
both Germany and Japan will be' 
threatened with incredible confu­
sion. A political vacuum will exist 
in the defeated countries, for all 
opposition groups have been exter­
minated by the totalitarian regimes. 
Pockets of isolated fanatics will 
hold out and will break forth pe­
riodically in fits of hysterical re­
sistance. Droves of expatriated 
workers will roam far and wide 
without adequate means of liveli­
hood. Towns and cities will be 
masses of rubble, food supplies will 
be disorganized, and epidemic 
disease will threaten.
The situation in Europe outside of 
Germany and of Asia outside of 
Japan will be only slightly less ap­
palling. As the liberating forces 
sweep through the enemy-held 
lands, the hitherto subjugated peo­
ple will rise against the Nazis and 
the Japs. A “night of long knives” 
will ensue and throats will be cut 
by the thousands. Each country, 
moreover, in the hour of its libera­
tion will be subjected to internal 
tensions and strains. Some ele­
ments in each freed nation will 
want communism, others democ­
racy, and still others will call for 
limited monarchies, while more 
than a handful will dream of re­
storing authoritarian government. 
Already, we are experiencing fore­
tastes of these inner dissensions. 
Witness the Giraud-DeGaulle con­
troversy, the Partisans versus the 
Patriots in Jugo-Slavia, the Liberals 
versus the Conservatives, and the 
hostility between Marshall Badog- 
lio and Count Sforza. From the un­
dernourished victims of German 
and Japanese aggression will arise 
an insistent cry for food. War pris­
oners and workers released from 
enemy factories will ask for care 
and lodgings. Normal economic 
procedures will be at a standstill. In 
short, our victory rejoicings must 
be tempered by the realization that 
vast regions on the earth’s surface 
and millions of people will be 
threatened with social disintegra­
tion.
In the fact of this grim situation, 
what can be done to win a peace for 
the present and the future? At this 
point history comes to our aid; by 
showing us our mistakes of the past, 
it thereby points the way to more 
effective solutions of international 
problems in the future. As an his­
torian, therefore, I venture to sub­
mit a “peace plan.”
In the first place, I feel it impera­
tive that we create an implemented 
and powerful world organization 
dedicated to justice and armed with 
power to keep the peace. It would 
be the part of wisdom were we to 
start building where the League of 
Nations left off, retaining its ac­
complishments and remedying its 
weaknesses. Despite grave deficien­
cies in construction and failures in J 
operation, the League has much to|
its credit. It created the first inter­
national civil service, brought about 
a dimunition in the opium trade, es­
tablished information exchanges, 
settled over thirty boundary dis­
putes, set up an international labor 
organization, and constituted an in­
ternational court. That experience 
and achievement ought to be kept 
in mind as we build anew for peace 
and justice.
Effective implementation of an 
international federation for the fu­
ture must of necessity have a more 
workable machinery than that of 
the League of Nations. The Coun­
cil and the Assembly in the old or­
ganization were crippled in their ef­
forts to undertake action by a rule 
requiring unanimous consent on im­
portant questions. Obviously that 
unanimity rarely prevailed and un­
der so stultifying a restriction the 
miracle is that anything at all was 
accomplished. The democratic course 
of action herein is perfectly appar­
ent. In the world parliament of to­
morrow, we must provide majority 
rule. Should there be a two-cham­
ber legislature, the upper house 
might well require a two-thirds 
vote on questions of unusual import­
ance.
However democratic the machin­
ery and procedure of an interna­
tional organization may be, peace 
cannot be kept for long unless 
there exists a coercive power to 
maintain that peace. Such coercion 
would best be expressed by the ex­
istence of a league army, navy, and 
air force, the creation and mainten­
ance of which involves tremendous 
difficulties. So strong is the senti­
ment of nationalism and so reluct­
ant would be the nations to surren­
der any of their soveign power, that 
no international striking power, 
self-sufficient and responsible to a 
federation, could be built up within 
our lifetime. Without, coercive pow­
er, however, a new world state 
would remain a hollow mockery 
and as ineffective in an emergency 
as was the Confederation in our 
country from 1781-1787. A possible 
solution of this difficulty would be 
to organize a small force at the out­
set, build it of quotas drawn from 
the member states, exercise control 
on the federal basis, and gradually 
increase its strength until it is cap­
able of maintaining an orderly 
world.
Now that we are thinking of long- 
range plans and indulging in what 
some would call, idealistic day­
dreaming, I wish to suggest that a 
world federation must some day, if 
it is to survive and fulfill its hopes, 
possess both the power to tax and 
to prevent secession from its ranks. 
While the idea of taxation calls up 
horrid thoughts in the minds of 
most of us, a moment’s reflection 
will show how important would be 
the power to tax for an internation­
al order. A significant financial in­
come would enable it to undertake 
increasingly useful activities. Fiscal 
power would be imperative for the 
maintenance of a police force. But 
most important of all, were we all 
to pay taxes to a world organiza­
tion, we would feel conscious of our 
i“stake” in world peace and we 
i Continued on page 5

---------------------------------------------------

i\ï
TUESDAY, JUNE 6, 1944THE CARNEGIE TARTAN
^atuei Stosuf.
annum Likes Jive, Biographies; 
Tells of Embarrassing Moment
Alarm Clock Frustration
If you like sports, or newspaper 
talk, or politics, or hamburger made 
with bread crumbs and the yolk of 
an egg, just pull up your pipe and 
your gripes and settle down in the 
Publications Bureau for a session of 
Maxie Hannum’s particular- well 
Reasoned brand of good talk. Max 
is the typical coach plus. He can 
ftell you stories of basketball battles 
from here to kingdom come, of Car- 
egie in the good old pre-war days,
Maxie Hannum
and of the wacky every day happen­
ings that every one else either for­
gets or never notices. There’s never 
a dull moment in the publications 
office and before you know it, you’ll 
have been there for hours.
Ever since college days, Mr. Han- 
num has been interested in newspa­
per and publicity work. He worked 
on the Pittsburgh Press part time 
while going to the University of 
Pittsburgh (It’s disgusting to have 
a Carnegie Tradition graduate from 
Pitt), and get a permanent position 
there after his graduation with a 
Bachelor of Science and Economics 
degree in 1922. After getting a 
background in sports reporting and 
editing he came to Carnegie in 1929 
to begin “the higher education of 
the Pitt man” as Publicity Director 
for the Athletic Association. Those 
were the good old days when Tech 
beat even Notre Dame at football 
once in a while and we wanted pub­
licity. After three years in this po­
sition, Max was asked to fill the 
shoes of the basketball coach tem­
porarily, He has coached the Ski- 
bos ever since. It was not until 
1941 that Mr. Hannum undertook 
the duties of Manager of the Bu­
reau of News and Publications but 
in his short term of office he has 
done extremely well. He includes 
as his official duties all publicity 
for the entire school, the issuing of 
all Carnegie pamphlets and bulle­
tins, and last but not least, the un­
official guidance and moral support 
of the gang on the publications. Be­
side. his labors at Carnegie, he 
serves also as Vice-President in 
charge of memberships for the A. 
C. P. A. and as Secretary for the 
board of trustees for the Hawthorn 
Avenue Presbyterian Church. He is 
a member of Phi Delta Theta, a so­
cial fraternity; Omicron Delta Kap­
pa, activities fraternity; Sigma Del­ta Chi and Pi Delta Epsilon, both
journalistic fraternities; and Beta 
Gamma Sigma, a commercial fra­
ternity.
After reading of Mr. Hannum’s 
career in newspaper work and 
sports it may seem surprising that 
his favorite hobbies are painting 
and good music. It developes how­
ever that his interests in these arts 
cannot be termed highly aesthetic. 
He has painted his whole house 
twice inside and out and has a mag­
nificent record of seven buckets of 
paint spilled at various location on 
his premises; one on the refrigera­
tor, two in the hedge, three prosaic- 
ly on the ground, and the one which 
almost broke up his home on the 
brand-new chenille spread of a twin 
bed. His record of fancy falls and 
sprawls while riding his rainbow 
colored hobby horse are too long to 
record here. In the musical field 
he shares a consuming passion for 
jive with President Doherty and Dr. 
Mehl. The trio meets frequently to 
practice for its first public concert 
which it will give upon invitation. 
They probably will not be asked to 
perform. In the literary field Max 
has written several romances for the 
pulps and enjoys reading about peo­
ple in good biographies. He con­
siders the average modern novel 
very poorly written. Aside from 
these other-worldly pursuits, Mr. 
Hannum enjoys golf and victory 
gardening. Rumor has it that he 
stalks the beetles and rabbits that 
infest the garden with his bare 
hands. Another of his outside pur­
suits is his regular attendance at 
church. He keeps a stop-watch on 
the minister and has read the Bible 
through seven times over a period 
of years in preparation for being a 
church trustee. In connection with 
his official position in community 
and church, Max has sworn at least 
twelve times to reform as a basket­
ball coach. He asked that his oath 
be recorded on the printed page in 
hopes that he may be better able 
to keep it. He declares that he will 
never again swear, that he will ride 
no more officials, that he will not 
throw his coat either on the floor or 
in the air, and that he will be a 
gentleman because he is a religi­
ous person. Another of Max’s hob­
bies is his long standing friendly 
feud with Dr. Carlson of Pitt. After 
every Pitt game they call up and 
cuss each other out for a couple of 
hours. Any time the Carnegie op­
erator is asked to get that ugly, old, 
Continued on page 4
CHOOSE YOUR BANK 
WITH A 
THOUGHT TO THE FUTURE 
¦
MELLON 
NATIONAL BANK
MBMftKft PIDIRAL DKP09IT INIURANCI 
CORPORATION
Beware of the cynical biologist 
who declares that Homo sapiens is 
just another species clinging to the 
branches of evolution’s family tree. 
Man, on the contrary, is the only 
member of the animal kingdom 
with such an intense desire for self- 
improvement that he spends nine- 
tenths of his time keeping up with 
the Joneses and the other tenth 
thinking of ways to outdo them. He 
assumes that the more time spent 
awake the more time for bettering 
himself — and does not bother to 
consider the added blood, sweat, 
tears, and frustration.
His chief weapon against the 
flight of the minutes is that horrible 
product of machine civilization, the 
alarm clock. This infernal device 
is the storm center of the perpetual 
wish to be lazy and happy rather 
than industrious and miserable. It 
is no wonder, then, that its ring 
should be the symbol of the great­
er part of humanity’s pet peeves 
and hates. Consider an all too strik­
ing example, the writing of this ar­
ticle. In order to finish it I had 
set my alarm for five in the morn­
ing. At this indecent hour I wan­
dered through the Stygian dark­
ness before setting my alarm a half- 
hour ahead and retiring again on 
the theory that I would have plenty 
of time. At six and six-thirty this 
was repeated with little deviation. 
Near seven, however, sleep was not 
to be had, and I waited for the 
blatant buzzing, too tired to get up 
and alter matters. It waited also. I 
waited. We both waited. After 
several eternities I dozed off. It 
rang immediately. Groping in the 
dark, I battered it mercilessly to a 
metallic pulp—but only after three
Prof. Rosenberg Opens 
Art Show In New York
Professor Samuel Rosenberg was 
honored at the Associated Ameri­
can Artists Galleries in New York, 
May 22, by the opening of a one- 
man art show. This show ranges 
from human and appealing subjects 
to the abstract and the expression- 
istic. His paintings are rich, deep 
in color, and are executed through 
the effect of stained glass.
Professor Rosenberg, who has 
taught for thirty years in Pitts­
burgh, is an instructor of drawing 
and painting in the Architecture De­
partment and will also teach these 
two subjects in the Painting and 
Design Department next semester.
For many years Professor Rosen­
berg has been represented in na­
tional exhibitions as well as the lo­
cal Associated Artists.
RODGERS
DAIRY STORES
MILK SHAKES
Made from Pure Whole Milk for only 15o
We Do Not Use Skim Milk.
NEAREST STORES LOCATED
------AT------
8905 FORBES STREET
Near Bouquet Street
4619 CENTER AVENUE
Near Craig Street
sprains and four sprawls had in­
formed me of its proper location. 
Other interesting situations can eas­
ily be recalled by the reader from 
his own experience.
One may argue that a worker 
with a wife, mother-in-law, and ten 
children has need of industry and 
hence of an alarm clock. The 
chances are, though, that anyone 
moronic enough to have such a 
monstrous family would also have a 
nag for a wife, an unutterable for 
a mother-in-law, and brats for chil­
dren. The denial to them of the lux­
uries of life would result in incal­
culable improvement in their tem­
perament. As a matter of fact,* the 
denial of so-called essential lux­
uries to the whole world would 
mean that the time required to both 
produce and enjoy them could be 
devoted to doing nothing, a most en­
joyable state of affairs.
Such a state can be achieved by 
simply destroying all alarm clocks. 
This should be simple since they are 
of two types—the type people want 
to throw out of windows and the 
type they do throw. Therefore only 
about half would have to be elim­
inated. No one would come to work 
on time, and technological efficiency 
would reach such a low ebb that pro­
duction of even the most essential 
goods would reach bare subsistence 
level for all people. Having noth­
ing to worry about in the way of 
keeping up with the Joneses, every­
one would be quite happy and 
Utopia acheived.
Unless this is done, dire conse­
quences are in the offing. Already 
the sound of an elevator, trolley, 
or house buzzer reminds one of his 
alarm and hence of his frustrated 
happiness. Compulsion neuroses 
should become quite common, it 
being no odd sight to see a man 
swing his arm like a clock, emit 
buzzing noises, and try to turn him­
self off. (The last should be quite 
difficult). The very word “alarm” 
means “warning”—a warning that 
man will not forever enslave him­
self to a case consisting of gears, 
shafts, springs, and a bell — not 
without losing his birthright of in­
tellectual freedom.
Fort Pitt is the Place 
to Rent
TYPEWRITERS
FORT PITT
TYPEWRITER CO.
ATlantic 8320 
644 LIBERTY AVENUE

---------------------------------------------------

THE CARNEGIE TARTANTUESDAY, JUNE 6, 1944
Dr. Mehl Returns..
Continued from page 1
sented it to a group of 150 indus­
trialists. In addition he gave a 
course in the fundamentals of phys­
ical metallurgy to a class of 30 
young Brazilian engineers and stu­
dents of the Escola Politecnica, the 
most important engineering school 
in South America. Dr. Mehl’s ac­
tivities were jointly sponsored by 
the engineering school and the In­
stitute of Technical Research as­
sociated with it, one of the finest re­
search laboratories in the world.
Dr. Mehl says that the metal­
lurgical industries of Brazil are only 
at a beginning. The iron and steel 
industry produces about one quar­
ter of a million tons a year. At the 
present it is manufactured exclu­
sively from pig iron with charcoal, 
with furnaces having a capacity of 
twenty to a hundred tons a day. The 
Brazilian government is now build­
ing a large steel plant at Volta Re- 
donda, not far from Rio de Janeiro. 
It is hoped that it will be in full pro­
duction within a year, and by its 
large capacity, double Brazil’s steel 
production. The plant is different 
in appearance from an American 
plant in that it is constructed large­
ly of reinforced concrete.
The steel industries of Brazil are 
growing under many difficulties ow­
ing to the necessities of war, the 
impossibility of importing coke, and 
the extreme shortage of scrap.
During his stay there, Dr. Mehl 
took a twelve day trip through the 
state of Minas Gerais. This large 
state lies inland from the city of 
Rio de Janeiro and includes the tre­
mendous iron deposits of Brazil. He 
visited one of the mountains of the 
famous Itabira deposit, a mountain 
about five thousand feet high 
composed of about two billion tons 
of 70% iron ore.
The development of the interior 
of Brazil, which contains untold 
wealth in deposits of all sorts of 
minerals except coal, is greatly im­
peded by extreme difficulties in 
transportation. The country is rug­
ged and the full development of 
their resources will require exten­
sive construction of railroads and 
roads, both of which will be difficult 
and require a long time.
Dr. Mehl visited the plant at Mor- 
rogrande, a beautiful little plant in 
which iron is made in charcoal blast 
furnaces, and the Bessemer steel 
prepared from it in small three-ton, 
side-blown converters. He then 
went to the plant of the Belgo Mi- 
neira Corporation at Monlevade 
and found there one of the finest 
steel mills he has ever seen, al­
though it is in the depth of the back 
country. A very modern plant 
built of reinforced concrete, like all 
the others, this factory makes iron 
by the use of charcoal in furnaces 
of one hundred ton capacity per 
day. This requires a large supply 
of charcoal which is gathered by 
workmen from all of the surround­
ing country. The charcoal is nat­
urally made in a primitive way and 
is stored in extremely large bins at 
the steel plant. This interesting 
steel mill was started by Joao 
Monlevade who came to this spot 
in 1815 and built a small primitive 
Catalan forge. In the yard t)f the 
house Dr. Mehl discovered an old 
mill from the year 1890 with the 
inscription “Lewis Foundry and Ma­
chine Company, Pittsburgh, Pa.”
During the visit, though in no 
connection with metallurgy, Dr. 
Mehl visited a coffee Fazenda, a 
place of 3600 acres in which some of 
Brazil’s best coffee is raised. This 
plantation is near the town of Cam­
pinas, the center of the coffee grow­
ing section of Brazil, in the state of 
Sao Paulo.
During his stay in Sao Paulo, Dr. 
Mehl assisted in the organization of 
the first Brazillian metallurgical so­
ciety, the Associaceo Brasileira de 
Meteis. This society had its first 
meeting during his stay and he de­
livered the inaugural address enti­
tled “The Historic Development of 
Metallurgy.” In the first banquet 
of the society he was presented with 
a gold medal.
The lectures which he gave on 
the metalurgy of iron and steel are 
being translated into Portuguese and 
will be published as a book in Bra­
zil. During his last week there Dr. 
Mehl was informed by the Presi­
dent of the University of Sao Paulo 
and the president of the engineer­
ing school that they had awarded 
him the degree of Doctor honoris 
causa, in view of the many scientific 
papers he had published and the 
services he had rendered the uni­
versity. This is the first honorary 
doctor’s degree awarded to any for­
eigner by the University of Sao 
Paulo and the first honorary degree 
awarded to any scientist or engi­
neer by that university. It makes 
him a faculty member of the uni­
versity and its representative to the 
United States. During his last week 
there Dr. Mehl delivered a radio ad­
dress in Portuguese on the subject 
of educating for citizenship in the 
United States.
Dr. Mehl also visited the city of 
Rio several times during his stay in 
Brazil, visiting local industries and 
government laboratories, and also 
confesses that he spent some time 
on the famous Copacabanca Beach.
Max Hannum ...
Continued from page 3
bald-headed Max Hannum” on the 
phone, she knows that the Univer­
sity and Dr. Carlson are calling. 
Max gives a chicken dinner with all 
the trimmings to his squad every 
time they beat Doc Carlson’s boys 
from the inverted mine shaft.
Mr. Hannum unbelievably is an 
old family man with two sons. His 
oldest boy leaves for V-5 the first of 
July and his youngest graduates 
from grade school this week. Mrs. 
Hannum was literally the girl next 
door. Max met her one time when 
he was out behind the garage smok­
ing forbidden cigarettes. It’s in 
connection with his married life 
that Mr. Hannum had his most em­
barrassing moment. As he tells it, 
“About three years ago my wife and 
I were waiting to see GWTW in a 
long line outside a theater down­
town. To pass the time I’d reach 
out every once in a while and 
pinch her (?) arm. I guess I’d done 
this about five times when she turn­
ed around and said “You know, sir, 
that kind of hurts.” She wasn’t my 
wife.” Max’s pet hate is “Phonies.” 
On that subject he needn’t worry 
about glass houses and stuff be­
cause he is a really regular guy.
Alcua CdUoA.
Teacher Third Class Schrickel 
Edits Encyclopedia of Arts
If one were trying to join the 
navy at New Orleans, he would 
probably be interviewed by Teach­
er, Third Grade H. G. Schrickel. 
Teacher Schrickel, 31 years old, is a
classification specialist in the re­
ceiving section of the New Orleans 
Naval Station.
Prior to January 18, of this year, 
Teacher (or Doctor) Schrickel was 
professor of psychology at Carnegie
Post-War World Is 
Concern of Retreat
“What we need is profs who can 
present their subjects in a way 
which interests the students” — to 
anyone who was not there this must 
inevitably be the high-point of last 
weekend’s YM-CWCA retreat. To 
those who went to Laurel Ridge this 
was a good point, but still only one 
of the good points of the discussions 
on “Race, Religion, and Education 
in the Post-War World.” And even 
these discussions were but a contrib­
uting factor to the feeling which 
was more important than the words.
The Rev. John Smith, with the 
help of the members of the faculty 
present, helped shape that feeling 
with talks on practical religion, and 
the students themselves developed 
a good bit of it, in what Mr. Smith 
termed a “bull session.” The activ­
ities which would ordinarily not be 
classed as devotional or religious— 
swimming, boating, singing, danc­
ing, even eating — gave a back­
ground which proved beyond doubt 
that a person who has a satisfying 
religion is the one who lives with 
people, not the one with the blue- 
laws and the long face.
By far the biggest contribution 
to this spirit came from the country 
itself, which was a distinct im­
provement over even the semi-idy- 
lic spot of last year. The mile hike 
to the lake seemed in spots like a 
trip along trails in the North woods, 
and the lake itself carried out the 
theme. Perhaps the best testimony 
to the wildness of the country is the 
look of amazement on the face of 
one of the natives when the special 
bus passed.
Despite his shock, he could not 
have been as affected by the twenty- 
odd Carnegie folks as they were by 
the territory which is home to him, 
for he experienced the unexpected, 
while they felt the inexpressable.
Tech. Before this he taught philo 
ophy at the University of Cinciil.| 
nati, his Alma Mater. After boc t 
training at Great Lakes, D: , 
Schrickel was assigned immediate . 
ly to duty at New Orleans.
Teacher Schrickel is a classifica. 
tion specialist; Dr. Schrickel is th<> 
editor of a new “Encyclopedia of 
the Arts,” which will be publisheq 
later this summer. After Navy 
working hours, Teacher Schrickel 
disappears and as Doctor Schrickel , 
emerges to work on his encyclo­
pedia. >
These volumes were started some 
three years ago prior to his joining 
the Navy. When Dr. Schrickel don­
ned his uniform, the undertaking 
had already progressed to the gal­
ley proof stage. After he reached 
New Orleans, the doctor had the 
proofs sent to him. Now, in his 
spare time, he is checking through 
the letter “M”. He also checks 
proofs sent in by the various con­
tributors, and sometimes has to 
avoid arguments by ignoring letters 
which complain about alleged typo­
graphical errors on the part of the 
printers. The psychologist ignores 
these letters by “filing” them. Not 
only is this a good system, but it al­
so relieves him of a lot of letter 
writing.
Since work on the enclycopedia 
began, nine of the contributors have 
been commissioned in the navy and 
one is a ski-trooper in the army. 
Among approximately 130 experts 
who contributed information, a large 
number are refugee scholars from 
Europe.
The encyclopedia, at the time of 
its publication, will be the most 
complete work of its kind. All cat­
egories of art will be covered, with 
special attention being given to 
music.
In addition to the work on his 
encyclopedia, Dr. Schrickel is also 
preparing the next edition of the 
“Journal of Aesthetics and Art Crit­
icism,” of which he is the managing 
editor.
Teacher Schrickel is very inter­
ested in his navy work. His field is 
human nature and in his job he in­
terviews navy personnel and sug­
gests naval assignments for them.
Carnegie Sculptress 
Receives Money Grant J
Janet De Coux, a former Tech 
sculpture student, received a grant 
of $1,000 from the National Insti­
tute of Arts and Letters on May 20. 
Miss De Coux’s sculpture work is 
now being shown in the annual In­
stitute show which opened in New 
York on May 20.
The National Institute of Arts and 
Letters was organized in 1898 by; 
the American Social Science Asso­
ciation for the preservation and im­
provement of standards in arts, let­
ters, and music. The membership 
is limited to 250 persons who are 
chosen for notable achievement in 
any of the three above mentioned 
sections.
Miss De Coux will soon return to 
her teaching position at Crambrook 
Academy in Michigan. .

---------------------------------------------------

IY '
o • -.............¦ ¦ ” ¦ :1 i
TUESDAY, JUNE 6, 1944THE CARNEGIE TARTAN
/
;• ...------.. .. ,,,..^CT . „_.T;. . HU.................. LI
One of the Girls
. . . Doris Strandberg 
She’s Mad Over Begin The Beguine
Formula: Take one skein of
blonde hair, add two big, blue eyes, 
slip in the desirably proportioned 
face and figure, set in on two king­
sized Betty Grables, and add the 
sunniest disposition that ever turn­
ed the campus lawn a cheery green. 
Recognize it? Probably, since it all 
belongs to one of the gals to whom 
Carnegie has bid sad adieu. Yes,
when the swallows return to Capis­
trano and the girls (we like to call 
them that) return this fall to Car­
negie, here is one who will be 
among the missing. *
In the fall of 1942, Doris Strand­
berg was one of the merry little 
band of Greensburg-ites who hit 
campus like a swarm of locusts. 
They boasted notable Merle Wolff,
Jimmie Sunder, and an all-star sup­
porting cast. At that time, our 
heroine registered in Nurses Train­
ing, and after two eventful yetars, 
leaves us now in her hour of tri­
umph for the State College of Penn­
sylvania. Her factor stayed near 
a comfortable three all the time she 
was here, and rumor has it that it 
was she who sparkplugged last 
year’s Cwen outfit to its traditional 
success. Sorority rushing last fall 
swept her into the Alpha Theta Sig­
ma group, but recently, when they 
went national to Delta Delta Delta, 
she demurred in favor of seeking 
new fields at State.
An avid baseball fan, Doris has 
already slipped into town twice 
since the semester ended to see her 
beloved Pirates go down to igno­
minious defeat. There is no ques­
tion about her actually being blonde 
(in high school they called her “per­
oxide”), but she entertains a sec­
ret passion to become a redhead. 
As this goes to press, the status is 
still quo. And if you wondered why 
a Cole Porter tune named Begin 
the Beguine turned up at all of the 
school dances last year, fret no 
more. The responsibility for this 
rests on our girl’s shapely shoulders, 
since she made an exact point of 
calling for it. It seems it is her one 
and only favorite piece. From all 
this, you should be able to pretty 
well identify our ex-inmate, but for 
a final tip, shh—a few gardenias will 
take her eye! Buses leave Forbes 
and Morewood on the hour.
Welcome Frosh...
Continued from page 1 
ulations, Mechanical Drawing and 
Descriptive Geometry. We won’t 
say anything, but you’ll find this 
the only course in which definitions 
are verbal simultaneous equations.
Engineering Hall (remember, the 
building across from Industries) is 
the home of the sciences and the 
purgatory for the future scientist. 
For here you will spend long and 
hot afternoons wondering why your 
Chemistry experiment does not 
work until you find out that you 
used the wrong reagent, (but who 
bothers with the chemicals) and 
many unnecessary hours in Physics 
Lab until you discover the magic 
of a fudge factor. In this building 
also is the Freshman Dormitory, 
sometimes called Chemistry Lec­
ture where the only limitation on 
your sleep is the rule against exces­
sive snoring.
Leaving E. H. we notice Machin­
ery Hall at the lower end of the 
Quadrangle, but as you will be sub­
jected to its horrors in your later 
semesters only we can pass it up for 
the moment. Let us instead pro­
ceed to the most important class­
room in school, the domicile of the 
foremost graduation prerequisite, N. 
T. 1, 3, and 7—elementary, interme­
diate and advanced Culbertson. 
This course is considered so exact­
ing and tiring that the administra-
tion found it necessary to serve re­
freshments and install a jukebox to 
restore the energy of the students.
We shall not bother to enter the 
last two academic buildings on the 
campus, for their contents become 
interesting only when they leave 
the building. For these two halls 
shelter not only Carnegie Tech’s 
co-eds, but the dramats as well. 
Need we say more?
Time is drawing short, so we shall 
let you find for yourself about the 
mysteries of the Grill and Inn and 
the many other small peculiarities 
which add up to Carnegie Tech. 
Just one more bit of information: 
“No-Doze” pills are cheaper if you 
buy them by the gross.
Entering Frosh...
Continued from page 1 
classes, and this class is no excep­
tion. The new freshmen will not be 
on the A. S. T. P. program, since the 
Army has cut its program so rad­
ically, but will follow a program 
very similar to that which normal 
freshman classes have been carry­
ing. Under this newest schedule, 
freshmen will study Math, English, 
General Chemistry, Social Rela­
tions, and Physics, physics being 
the only addition to the normal 
freshman program. In their sopho­
more year, the students will con­
tinue with English, Math, Mechan­
ics, Social Relations, Physics and 
Engineering Drawing. Under the 
new schedule, the administration 
expects all classes to be under the 
semester plan by October 1945,
The Outlook *..
Continued from page 2 
would scrutinize carefully the ex­
penditure of our money. We would 
become internationally - minded, 
without of course, losing our sense 
of nationalism, because our allegi­
ances and our loyalties are power­
fully linked to our pocketbooks. No 
less important is the requirement 
that no member state can secede 
from the world union Here again 
we encounter the opposition of na­
tionalism, for it will be argued that 
no nation is prepared to forego its 
freedom of action which it certainly 
would do were it to join an interna­
tional order from which it could not 
withdraw. Though the difficulties 
in this respect are almost insur­
mountable, they simply must be 
confronted and overcome. Unless 
a way is found to cope with the 
problem of secession, there will be 
a repetition of the collapse of col­
lective security similar to that 
which ensued when Japan with­
drew from the League in 1932 fol­
lowing her being censured for the 
Manchurian aggression and when 
Italy seceded in 1937 after the im­
position of sanctions because of her
Citcom, Junior Mechs. 
Lead Mushball Leagues
Carnegie Tech students will have 
to rely on their memory of past sea­
son’s mushball games if they want 
to talk about good playing, for this 
summer’s league presents a rather 
sad state of affairs. The fraterni­
ties, instead of picking the cream 
of their crop to play on their re­
spective teams, now have trouble 
scraping up ten men. Needless to 
say, the quality of this season’s 
games is none too good.
In spite of this, however, the spir­
it of the players and spectators this 
summer is not only as good, but 
often better than last year’s. Where 
a single error then caused a lot of 
griping and bad feeling, scores of 
errors today are just laughed off, 
and everyone has a lot of fun.
Besides the five Army teams, the 
teams-to-beat are Citcom in League 
1, and the Junior Mechanicals in 
League 2. Of these two, the former 
has thus far seemed to be the su­
perior one, but both are far better 
than the fraternity teams. The 
standing of the teams is as follows: 
League 1
Citcom ........................... 3 0 1.000
Sr. Chemists ................. 1 1 0.500
Co. A 31 ......................... 1 1 0.500
Beta Theta Pi ............... 1 1 0.500
Co. A 12B ..................... 1 2 0.333
Tau Delta Phi ............... 0 2 0.000
League 2
Junior Mech.................... 3 0 1.000
Co. A 12A .................... 2 0 1.000
Co. A 22 ...........................1 1 0.500
Co. A 11-12 ................. 1 2 0.333
Delta Tau Delta ............ 0 2 0.000
Theta Xi......................... 0 2 0.000
C. S. EDMAN
PRINTER
6470 Monitor St. HA. 0193
attack upon Ethiopia. If each na­
tion may “pick up its marbles and 
go home” each time it doesn’t like 
the way the game is going, interna­
tional stability will never become a 
reality.
As the United States struggled to­
ward democracy and union, so must 
the world order of the future. Im­
plementation is a prime requisite 
for a victorious conclusion to that 
struggle, for without effective pow­
er no international order can ade­
quately cope with the age-old 
causes of war. Such causes have to 
do with boundaries, tariffs, curren­
cies, ethnic minorities, and colonial 
dispositions. Both knowledge and 
will exist for adequate solutions. 
What is wanting is the adequate 
machinery and power. Unless that 
machinery and power are eventual­
ly fashioned, old causes for new 
conflicts will persist.
(To Be Continued)
is today’s reality!
8N11C oARCE connecting coast
with coast! That was Abraham 
Lincoln’s vision, realized by 
the Driving of the Golden 
Spike. This historic event, in 
1869, united the first trans­
continental tracks, and initiated 
the nation-wide delivery by Ex­
press of commercial goods and 
personal packages at passenger 
train speed.
Today, Railway Express 
operates on 230,000 miles of 
track. Over them daily, 10,000 
trains speed shipments of every 
kind to and from 23,000 offices. 
Included in this nation-wide 
network is almost every college 
town in America. Generations 
of students first learned about 
Express Service when they left 
home for college, then grew to 
depend upon it during their 
years on the campus.
When you do have packages 
to send, you can help us do our 
war job better by aiding in 
three ways: Pack your ship­
ments securely —address them 
clearly —start them early. Our 
century of experience proves 
that “a shipment started right 
is half-way there!”

---------------------------------------------------

Ex-Professor Reynolds 
Teaches English Kids
Recent dispatches from England 
include news of Prof. William H. 
Reynolds, who was a member of 
Tech’s English department faculty 
from 1930 to 1933, and is now a 
Staff Sergeant serving as chief in­
telligence clerk with a fighter 
squadron somewhere in England. 
The dispatch reads in part as fol­
lows:
“Sgt. Reynolds was overseas only 
about two weeks when he entered 
the classroom of an English village 
school and offered the wide-eyed 
students a course on American his­
tory. The school officials liked the 
hefty sergeant’s lecture methods so 
well they invited him to other 
schools to talk about the United 
States generally.”
“The forums were the best ses­
sions, English children bombard­
ing Reynolds with questions rang­
ing from American methods of farm­
ing to the ingredients of a Coney 
Island hot-dog. Reynolds found 
himself describing an American 
game of football for almost an hour 
one day, with the youngsters wild­
ly excited over the final-quarter 
push for a touchdown.”
Prof. Reynolds received his Bach­
elor of Science degree from Har­
vard in 1926 and his M. A. degree 
from the same University in 1929. 
In the fall of 1930 he came to Car­
negie as an English instructor. 
Leaving CIT in 1933, he returned to 
Harvard as assistant to Charles 
Swain Thomas, Professor of Educa­
tion at Harvard and authority on the 
teaching of English. Prof. Reynolds 
joined the Army of the United 
States in the summer of 1942.
You Are Invited
Freshmen, you have just read 
your first issue of the Tartan. Un­
doubtedly you will agree with us 
and with all the other students that 
it has room for plenty of improve­
ments, and probably you can think 
of many remedies. Come up and 
tell us about them, or better yet, 
come up and stay to work on the pa­
per. We work every Friday after­
noon and night, and a few hours on 
Sunday afternoon. We can prom­
ise you interesting work and a heck 
of a good time, in addition to the 
hope of rapid advancement on the 
staff.
We shall expect you this Friday, 
from four o’clock on!
Lei's go lo
ISALY'S
MILK SHAKES 
BIG ICE CREAM COISES
KLONDIKES 
TASTY LUNCHES
g .....................................
Three Store« in the College 
District 
6808 Forbes Street, Squirrel Hill 
3714 Forbes Street, Oakland
FRED WARING’S 
VICTORY TUNES 
Five Nights a Week 
all NBC Stations
JOHN NESBITT’S 
PASSING PARADE 
Tues.Wed.Thurs. Nights 
all CBS Stations
THL CARNEGIE TARTAN
V
TUESDAY, JUNE 6, 1944
’s a character who’s got a 
like his name. To him a Nip 
the trees is a notch in his gun.
Me, I’ve got the hottest pin-up 
collection in the Pacific but does it 
get me anywhere with Trig? No!
Even when I try to mooch one of 
Chesterfields I have to find him 
a whole nest of Nips to pick off.
But then ... the Colonel says we 
make a swell Combination...
Remember Chesterfield’s
RIGHT COMBINATION 
WORLD’S BEST TOBACCOS
5 Key-words 
For Mildness> Better Taste 
and Cooler Smoking
MAIN PLANT:
8880 Boulevard of the Allies
