Volume 95, Issue 6www, thetartan.org
TERRORISM BILL 
RAISES CONCERN 
WITH STUDENTS
by Jen Resick
Staff writer
The United States Student Association (USSA) has been on 
action alert since Monday, 
September 25, when Attorney General John Ashcroft presented Congress with the Mobilization 
Against Terrorism Act. Ashcroft’s 
proactive response to terrorism 
has organizations like the USSA and the American Civil Liberties 
Union (ACLU) questioning the leg­
islation’s impact upon educational 
institutions and the civil liberties 
of students.The purposed goal of the anti­
terrorism legislation is to increase 
presidential and judicial power to 
“prevent or thwart terrorist 
attacks, and to punish perpetra­
tors of terrorist acts.” The bill 
seeks to combat and punish terror­ism on several different levels.
The bill gives the wiretap authority increased freedom to 
gather information on suspected 
terrorists agents and grants 
See LEGISLATION, page A3
Network speed problems persist across University
by Sara Stille
Co-Editor-in-Chief
Is it possible that students 
attending the “most-wired” 
University in the nation are cur­
rently experiencing slow network performance? Since the beginning 
of this semester, Computing 
Services has been working to find 
a solution to the numerous com­
plaints filed by Carnegie Mellon 
network users regarding difficulty connecting to the University mail 
servers and other production sys­
tems.Computing Services has named 
two main contributors to the prob­lem: the number of peer-to-peer 
servers and total volume of traffic 
from on-campus to off-campus 
sites, and the emergence and prop­
agation of several computer virus­
es, including Code Red, Code Red 
II, and Nimda.
The recent influx of Code Red, Code Red II, and Nimda over the 
past month has played a relatively 
small role in the flooded network. 
The viruses operate by infecting
one computer, which then ran­
domly generates IP addresses and tries to copy itself to the other 
computers. According to John Lerchey, the Computer and 
Network Security Coordinator, Computing Services shut down 
over 180 infected computers in August before students returned to 
campus. “I stopped counting after 
that,” said Lerchey.
Peer-to-peer traffic has been the main contributor to the campus 
network problems. Mark 
Poepping, the Technical Director 
for Computing Services, and Karen 
Van Dusen, the Departmental 
Computing Coordinator, said that 
Computing Services has been 
working on an analysis of where 
the high traffic is concentrated in 
order to develop a solution. They 
have temporarily set an export 
limit of 40 megabits per second 
between the residence halls and 
the campus backbone. “This is not 
the way we want it and we’ll be 
trying to figure out how to do this 
better as time goes on,” said 
Poepping.Eighty to 90 percent of the traf-
Network speed comparison
1600
1400
1200
1000
800
600
400
200
?upstream
?downstream
fic is to the commodity Internet, which includes sites such as AOL and http://www.google.com. While, in the past, Computing Services has simply increased the bandwidth to this branch of the network whenever it becomes 
See NETWORK, page A4
TUESDAY (Jarnegie Mêlion s Student TVewspaper Since lÿOb
Hi 69/Lo 48
WEDNESDAY
Hi 67/Lo 49
THURSDAY
Hi 65/Lo 45
FRIDAY
Hi 58/Lo 39THE TARTAN
According to Patty Stacer, direc­
tor of Campus Services, the sys­
tem will be completely installed 
by middle to late October and 
fully functional sometime after 
the end of October.
Originally, however, the system 
was slated to be completed nearly 
a month earlier. In a news release 
to the campus community on July 
27, 2001, Debra Hamlin, Parking Services Coordinator, indicated 
that construction would be fin­
ished by September 14. The inac­
cessibility of the garage entrance 
and exit nearest the University 
Center “is expected to last from 
August 30 to September 14,” stat­
ed Hamlin in July.
As of Sunday morning, the 
entrance was still not accessible 
and permit holders remained cut 
off from the primary entrance to 
the permit parking area of the 
garage. The only other entrance 
to the permit parking area is 
inside the garage between the 
parking meters and visitors’ park­
ing — an area that experiences
Ko Nakatsu/Asst. Photo Editor
Parking spaces on campus have become increasingly limited due to construction.
rush hours. To attempt to allevi­
ate some of the inconveniences 
and traffic backups associated 
with having only one entrance to 
the permit parking area, Parking 
Services has contracted with Jay 
Becker Valet Service to have an 
attendant open the gate for each
ing permit holders to insert their 
gate cards to enter the area.
“The construction took a little 
bit longer than we thought,” said 
Neil Binstock, assistant vice pres­
ident for Business Services. 
“Equipment did not arrive at the 
time we thought it would arrive.” 
See PARKING, page A3high volumes of traffic during permit holder, rather than requir-Carnegie Mellon to utilize solar
energy sensors to conserve energy
Lindsay Spriggs/Photo Staff
Rally for peace: On Friday afternoon, students from CMU, Duquesne, Chatham, and Pitt convened at the 
Cathedral of Learning. Carrying a 24 x 24 banner of a peace sign, the students shouted chants and sang songs.
School of Computer Science receives 
over $24 million in grants from NSF
by Pearl S. Goldman
Junior Staffwriter
The National Science Foundation (NSF) recently announced an 
award of more than $24 million in grants from its Information 
Technology Research Initiative to 
CMU faculty members in the 
School of Computer Science.
The NSF is an independent US
Government agency responsible for 
promoting science and engineering 
through programs that invest over 
$3.3 billion per year in almost
20,000 research and education projects in science and engineer­
ing. The NSF’s mission is to pro­
mote the progress of science, to 
advance the national health, pros­
perity, and welfare, and to secure 
the national defense.
The 14 awards granted to SCS on
by Sinduja Srinivasan
Junior Staffwriter
The administration at Carnegie 
Mellon does listen to the sugges­
tions given by those on campus 
regarding the university’s environ­
mental policies. As part of a cam­
pus-wide energy conservation ini­
tiative, CMU is changing the source 
of lighting in several of its build­
ings. The change is in response to 
numerous complaints from stu­
dents and faculty about the envi­
ronmental wastefulness of the 
University. The switch from artifi­
cial to solar light is just the begin­
ning of a campaign towards saving 
energy.
According to Elizabeth J. 
Munsch, who is directly involved 
with this new program, the University is focusing on indoor
Mo%Towar<)j^ 
a Greener CMil w
areas with skylights and windows as installation sites for the solar 
powered lights. Over the course of 
the next three weeks, contractors 
will be turning off the lighting cir­
cuits in such areas to install both 
photocells and timers that will be 
placed on lighting circuits to ensure 
the lights are off in naturally lit spaces during daylight hours.
Buildings that hold affected 
lighting areas include Posner, 
Margaret Morrison, Facilities 
Management Building, Doherty, 
Baker, Porter, Warner, Cyert, 
Carnegie Mellon Research Institute 
(stairwells only), Hamerschlag, 
University Development Technology
Center, and Roberts.
“This change in the lighting is 
only the first phase of a campus, 
energy awareness program,” said 
Munsch. “We hope to start a 
University Challenge in October to 
save enough energy to pay for the 
wind power recently purchased.” 
Student reaction to the move 
towards a more environmentally 
conscious campus has been 
extremely positive.
The lighting project is a “good 
move environmentally,” said Lisa Podgurski, a junior majoring in 
biology and psychology. “CMU is 
showing its concern towards global 
issues and is taking action.”
Jen Eng, a first-year majoring in 
political science, approves of the 
lighting project because it will be 
more cost-efficient. “Hopefully thè 
money saved will go to other stu­
dent activities,” said Eng.
INSIDE THE TARTAN
September 25 are part of a $156 
million program established to 
maintain US leadership in comput­
er science and its applications and 
to promote fundamental research 
and innovative uses of information 
technology in science and engi­neering.
Acting dean of SCS, Randy 
Bryant, feels that the grants have 
provided validation of the strength 
See GRANTS, page B6
Forum
Columnist comments on 
Michael Jordan’s comeback, 
page A6
Sports
The Tartans made short work 
of Franklin and Marshall on 
Saturday and remain unde­
feated.
page A12
Arts & Living
ZFilms presents documentary 
by John Pilger depicting the 
horrors of the Gulf War. 
page B1
Science and Technology
CMU receives Itanium grant 
from HP and Intel, 
page B5
Entertainment
Can’t decide where to get your 
next meal? Check out reviews 
for the Elbow Room and
Gullifty's.
page B7
Balancing Act:
CMU tries to avert third 
rejection ofFMS contract
PARKING CRUNCH: DELAYS, CLOSURES 
FRUSTRATE CMU CAMPUS COMMUTERS
union wants to compromise 
more than the other side would have been willing to accept. 
However, current discussions 
of a four-year agreement have 
been exasperated by several 
changes in the composition of 
the FMS union. Several years ago, the University outsourced 
Dining Services, a decision that 
reduced the number ofemployees at CMU represented 
by Service Employees
International Union 585 (SEIU). At that time, union 
employees worried that the 
decision would adversely affect their bargaining power. In 
November 2000, FMS union 
employees joined IUOE local 95. A growing organization, 
IUOE already had members of 
the University of Pittsburgh’s 
facilities management division 
under their purview. Many 
FMS employees held high 
expectations that local 95 
would better reflect their voca­
tion than SEIU.“I think [the separation of 
dining and maintenance 
employees] makes contract 
negotiations with FMS a little 
less difficult since the group of 
trades are all aligned,” said 
assistant vice president for 
FMS Ken Kimbrough.
by Brad Grantz
Managing Editor
Carnegie Mellon University 
has tendered two separate 
contracts to Facilities Management Services, the 
University’s maintenance divi­
sion that has been working without a contract since July 1. FMS’s 87-member union has 
overwhelmingly struck down 
both proposals; FMS employ­
ees have refused to tend to cer­tain maintenance requests 
according to documents obtained by The Tartan. Could 
it be three strikes and they walk?
Negotiators from
International Union of Operating Engineers local 95 
(IUOE) and CMU’s assistant 
vice president for human 
resources Barbara Smith will 
convene October 22 in another 
attempt to develop a mutually 
acceptable proposal. Local 95 
President Tom Moore and FMS 
union steward John Hesch 
declined to discuss the status 
of negotiation or whether a 
strike had been authorized by 
CMU’s FMS employees.Contract negotiations are by 
nature a difficult process. 
Neither management nor the
by Aseem Gupta
Co-Editor-in-Chief
A parking revolution is under­
way at Carnegie Mellon. If the 
administration and University 
architects have their way, current 
parking spaces will disappear 
underground and give way to 
lush green spaces across campus. 
Permit holders will zip into 
garages waving radio-controlled 
devices in front of sensors to gain 
access, and computers will 
instantly calculate how many 
spaces are available in the system 
for those without permits. 
Unfortunately, the path to park­
ing utopia is proving to have a few 
bumps.
When it is completed, the jewel 
in the parking crown will be the 
new “pay-as-you-park” system in 
the East Campus Garage. The 
multi-tiered parking structure 
will soon be open to the entire 
campus community, but the exact 
day when the new system will 
enter into service is still unclear.
*V

---------------------------------------------------

THE TARTAN • OCTOBER 1, 2001
GET IN FREE WITH VfiLID CMU STUDENT IDOn October 4, the brightest lights of 
Broadway come to Pittsburgh 
Symphony Heinz Hall.
‘PITTSBURGHSYMPHONY£§
Student Rush s15
at the box office two hours before every concert!
Senator proposes controversial six-month freeze on visas of international students
FBI pursues over 100,000 
leads in terrorist attacks
More than 104 investigations were initiated, involving alleged 
attacks or threats against Arab- American individuals and institu­tions.The FBI, CIA, and other US agen­cies have painstakingly recreated 
the travels of the 19 hijackers over years through Germany, Afghanistan, Spain, and London.Much of the effort has focused on Germany, where federal authorities on Saturday announced the arrest of three Muslim men suspected of plotting attacks in that country.The prosecutor’s office said it had no evidence linking the men to the September 11 attacks.“The accused are suspected of plotting violent attacks in Germany while belonging to an organization with a fundamentalist Islamic back­ground,” the statement said. It did 
not give details.On Friday, British prosecutors identified an Algerian pilot as the 
primary instructor for four of the 19 airplane hijackers. Lofti Raissi was brought to court in London, where a prosecutor told an extradition hear­ing he played a crucial role by mak­
ing sure the hijackers had pilot training.
WASHINGTON (AP) — The FBI is pursuing more than 100,000 leads as agents narrowed their overseas search for masterminds of the September 11 attacks. In the US, more than 100 investigations were under way into alleged hate crimes against Arab Americans, the FBI 
said Saturday.Agents tracked tens of thousands of dollars, communications, and travel tickets, following a trail that could lead to a small group of men in Europe and the Middle East.The FBI has focused on Osama bin Laden sympathizers in England, Germany, and the United Arab Emirates, authorities told The Associated Press.While investigating some 120,000 tips sent to an FBI Internet site and toll-free hotline, laboratory special­ists examined more than 200 sub­missions of evidence from the Pentagon, World Trade Center, and western Pennsylvania crash sites of hijacked airliners. More than106,000 leads have been generated by FBI field offices.Along with the search for the ter­rorist plotters, the bureau said it was pursuing those committing alleged 
hate crimes in the United States.
nition that this is an unprecedent­
ed time in the country, and our 
national security depends on our 
system functioning to ensure that 
terrorists do not take advantage of 
the vulnerabilities in the student 
visa program,” Feinstein said.
Feinstein first spoke of the pro­
posals last Thursday in an inter­
view with the New York Times. 
Although university and other 
higher education officials were 
not surprised by the proposals, 
many questioned the need for 
such strong measures.
“It would be a shame to see this 
kind of reaction in response to the 
events [of September 11],” said 
Ginny Stark, associate director of 
the Office of International 
Education and Exchange at the 
University of Oregon.
Student leaders agreed. “In the 
past, the Oregon Student 
Association has opposed any and 
all efforts to restrict access to edu­
cation,” said Joelle Lester, OSA 
executive director.
A spokesman for Feinstein said 
higher education officials were 
consulted during the formulation 
of the proposals, which attempt to 
fill in gaps in regulations in stu-
(U-WIRE) EUGENE, Ore. — A 
proposal by Senator Dianne 
Feinstein, D-California, that calls 
for a six-month moratorium on 
international student visas has 
raised the ire of officials working 
with foreign exchange programs.
“It is bad public policy,” said 
Kenneth Rogers, associate dean of 
international students at Indiana 
University. “A considerable num­
ber of tuition will be lost, and a lot 
of bright young scholars will be 
lost.”
The six-point proposal by 
Feinstein follows a string of major 
legislation aimed at reducing the 
threat of terrorism after the 
attacks of September 11. Feinstein 
calls for changes in the way the 
Immigration and Naturalization 
Service (INS) tracks the nation’s
500,000 international students, 
including nearly 1,400 at the 
University of Oregon.
The Senator’s proposals include 
the creation and funding of a data­
base of international students, set­
ting up new requirements for 
schools and universities, and new 
INS admission procedures.
“[The proposals] maybe contro­
versial, but there has to be recog-
dent visas.
“It was the educators who told 
us there were [visa] monitoring 
gaps,” said Jim Hock. “The stu­
dent visa category is the most 
unregulated and exploited visa 
category.”
Hock said reforms are necessary 
to the student visa program 
because officials believe at least 
one of the suicide pilots involved in 
the attacks enrolled at a college in 
Oakland, California, in November 
2000, but never appeared at 
school. He also said the proposals 
should come before a committee in the next two weeks.
Many officials lay fault on lax 
processes by the INS. Stark said 
that all international students 
must go through rigorous applica­
tion and screening processes 
before being accepted to the 
University.
However, once the student 
enters the University, “there is 
never any follow-up by the INS,” 
Stark said. After international stu­
dents have entered the country, 
Stark said, the INS should do a 
better job in tracking students’ 
movements.
Academic officials and the fed­
eral government have often been 
at odds over many issues relating 
to international students. Many 
Universities and NAFSA: 
Association of Higher Educators 
complained this summer about 
the rising number of student visa 
rejections in some countries, 
notably China. Also, many offi­
cials fought with the INS over the 
proposed Student and Exchange 
Visitor Program, a database 
which will track international 
students and scholars. At one 
point, the INS attempted to force 
universities to collect a $95 fee 
from each international student 
to pay for the program.
Feinstein’s proposals address 
many issues surrounding the data­
base, including full financial sup­
port. Rogers, who is also the chair­
man of a consular-affairs working 
group for NAFSA, fears the data­
base will be too obtrusive and 
error-prone.
“The government has the need 
to obtain information, and I don’t 
have an issue there,” Rogers said. 
“The potential for abuse and fraud 
is enormous. We all know how 
hard it is to change federal records 
when something wrong goes in.”FDA approves release of 
new gene-based AIDS testSouth African court rules in favor 
of adoption for same-sex couples
Clinton,
Dole launch 
fundraiser
present. Then a software program matches those mutations to a list of more than 70 mutations currently linked to resistance in specific drugs.The lab mails the doctor a report listing the likelihood that each AIDS drug would work according to the viral mutations currently coursing through that patient’s blood, said Visible Genetics president Richard Daly.The test is 98 percent accurate, said FDA medical reviewer Dr. Andrew Dayton. Better, as scientists discover additional mutations that cause drug resistance — a rapidly changing field — the new informa­tion can be added to the software promptly so that the test remains use­ful in real-world practice, he said.The test takes three days to com­plete and will cost between $300 and $500 per patient, Daly said.“It’s a major step forward in HIV treatment,” said Dr. R. Scott Hitt, president of the American Academy 
of HIV Medicine.But “it is only one piece of the puz­zle” in picking the best therapy, Hitt cautioned, urging patients to seek treatment from HIV specialists who can properly interpret test results.FDA researchers set up the com­puter gene sequencer in an agency lab to understand the novel test fully and approved its sale late Wednesday after a year of review, record review time for such a complex new science, Daly said. Testing became available Thursday.
WASHINGTON (AP) — The gov­ernment has approved the first gene- based test to tell quickly whether an HIV patient’s virus is mutating to make a particular drug therapy fail, 'important to know so the person can switch AIDS medications.Visible Genetics Inc.’s Trugene is one of the most complex genetic test systems to clear the Food and Drug Administration. FDA officials described it on Thursday as an important tool in helping doctors select the medications most likely to fight each patient’s HIV.The AIDS virus naturally grows resistant to medications through evo­lution. Experts estimate 60 percent of patients have a virus that is resistant to at least one drug.Until now, most HIV patients have kept tabs on how well their treatment is working by undergoing tests to see how much of the AIDS virus is in the bloodstream. A spike can mean that HIV is growing resistant to one or more drugs, and it’s time to try to a different medicine.
But to specifically check a patient’s blood for genetic mutations that 
mean one of the 15 anti-AIDS drugs won’t work has required additional laboratory testing not routinely avail­able.
With Trugene, a doctor sends a patient’s blood sample to one of 130 labs where Visible Genetics so far has trained personnel. A computer decodes the HIV genes in that blood, identifying all the genetic mutations
JOHANNESBURG, South Africa (AP) — A South African 
court ruled in favor of making it 
easier for gay couples to adopt children together, and declared 
that a lesbian judge could share 
the same worker benefits with her domestic partner as married judges do.
Judge Frans Kgomo of the Pretoria High Court on Friday 
accepted the petition by a lesbian 
judge and her life partner that sections of a guardianship act be 
altered to include same-sex life partners, the South African Press 
Association reported.
The lesbian judge, Anna-Marie 
de Vos, also of the Pretoria High Court, had been deemed the sole
adoptive parent of two children in 1995, although both she and her 
partner sought legal custody.
The couple argued that it was 
in the best interests of the chil­dren that their experience of fam­
ily life be reflected in the law.In his decision, Kgomo said he 
had no evidence to show that 
same-sex life partners are less capable of raising children.
In a second ruling, Kgomo said that sections of a compensation 
act for judges should be declared 
unconstitutional because they prevent same-sex partners from 
sharing benefits enjoyed by their 
married counterparts.
Altering the act would entitle 
the partners of gay judges to such
benefits as sharing in medical insurance packages and compen­sation in the case of death.
Kgomo ordered that the legisla­
tion and regulations pertaining to 
both cases be amended to include same-sex life partners. Both rul­
ings await approval by the Constitutional Court — South Africa’s highest legal body.
The ruling represented another 
step in unraveling old apartheid 
laws that forbade sexual relation­
ships between members of the same sex.
The broadening of gay and les­bian rights has turned South 
Africa into a beacon for gay rights 
in a region where governments are often homophobic.
WASHINGTON (AP) — Former 
President Clinton joined his for­
mer rival Bob Dole Saturday in 
launching a nationwide effort to 
raise $100 million to make sure 
scholarships are available for children of people killed or dis­
abled in the September 11 terror­
ist attacks.
“It seems to me this can be a 
living memorial, and they’ll 
understand as they grow older ... 
that Americans continue to care,” 
said Dole, a former senator and 
the 1996 GOP presidential candi­date.
Clinton, a Democrat who defeated Dole in the presidential election, said the Families of Freedom Scholarship Fund will 
be available to meet the educa­
tional needs of the children of the victims long after the news of the 
attacks on the World Trade 
Center and the Pentagon pass 
from the headlines.
“This is a gift that will be giving 
for a long time,” Clinton said at a 
news conference with Dole at 
Georgetown University. “Nothing 
is more important long term than 
to see that the children affected 
by this tragedy will have the 
opportunity to have an educa­tion.”
The scholarship fund will be 
administered by the Citizens’ 
Scholarship Foundation of 
America, a private scholarship 
and educational support organi­zation.
revealed some organ tissue, raising 
hope that researchers might be able to learn how the woman died.
“There’s tons of stuff in there,” 
said Gerald Conlogue, a Quinnipiac 
University professor of diagnostic 
imaging. “What we may be looking at is a shell or casing made out of this 
soapy substance sealing out the out­
side environment.”
Conlogue said the results will give 
researchers greater understanding 
of saponification, the chemical con­
version of fat into adipocere. 
Saponification is an unusual occur­
rence, dependent on factors such as 
humidity, temperature, the presence 
of clothing, and bacterial activity. 
The fatter the person, the greater 
the chance saponification will occur.
A 1987 X-ray of the mummy 
showed eight straight pins and two four-hole buttons manufactured in 
the 19th century.
The CT scan, a computer- 
enhanced image of areas that can­
not be seen by X-ray, was taped for a 
new television series called The 
Mummy Road Show, premiering 
October 5 on the National Geographic Channel.
The filming made for a bizarre 
scene: With the television crew and 
museum workers eating cheese 
steaks a few feet away, the black­
ened mummy slowly passed 
through a portable CT scanner in a 
Mutter side room filled with large oil 
portraits of long-dead Philadelphia physicians.
PHILADELPHIA (AP) — 
Sometime in the 19th century, a fat 
woman died and her body changed 
almost entirely into soap.
It may sound like an urban leg­
end, but researchers are serious. On 
Thursday, they performed a CT scan 
on the woman’s mummified body 
hoping to learn more about the 
process that turns some corpses into 
a waxy, soap-like substance called adipocere.
The body, dubbed “Soap Lady,” 
has been on display for more than a 
century at the Mutter Museum, a former haven for medical students 
but now a Philadelphia tourist attraction featuring thousands of 
medical oddities.
The CT scan unexpectedly
Corrections & Clarifications
The Tartan corrects all known errors of fact. If you know of an error, please contact 
Editors-in-Chief Aseem Gupta and Sara Stille atx8-2111 or tartan@andrew.cmu.edu.
On October 4-7, your favorite Broadway headliners 
share the stage with Marvin and the Pops for an exhila­
rating program featuring the songs you know and love. 
Treat yourself to music ranging from My Fair Lady, to 
The Music Man, to Les Misérables, and even the greatest 
hits of Andrew Lloyd Webber.
Christiane NollMiss Saigon
Broadway Bound with 
Marvin Hamlisch
Oct 4-7
Pittsburgh Symphony 
Heinz Hall
J. Mark McVeyLes MisérablesStart your Thursday night off with a trip to Carnegie Museums of Art and Natural History. 
Where you can learn about everything from Degas to dinosaurs to diamonds.
Grab something to eat. Even pick up a gift. All by 9:00 pm.
T Carnegie 
Museum 
of Natural 
® History
CARNEGIE MUSEUM OF ART
Series Sponsored by:Doug LaBrecquePhantom of the Opera
Two of the four Carnegie Museums of Pittsburgh • Forbes Avenue, Oakland • Ample on-site parkingCMU students - reserve discounted tickets at the University Center 
information desk or call 412/392-4900

---------------------------------------------------

THE TARTAN • OCTOBER 1,2001
Kiltie band fun: The kiltie band cheers on the CMU football team at the Saturday afternoon game at Franklin 
and Marshall College in Lancaster, PA.
JEWELERS
rocks.
Pittsburgh 
412. 421.6777
Parking space reductions receive 
criticism from campus community
PARKING, from page A1
Although there has not been University communication about the garage since August 13, when the department indicated that the construction was pro­ceeding on schedule, Binstock promised communication in the future about where the East Campus Garage project current­
ly stands.When the parking garage pro­
ject is complete, more spaces may be available for non-permit holders, but in the meantime, parking services have made inac­cessible 135 parking spaces around campus that were previ­ously available after 5 pm on weekdays and all day on week­ends for non-permit holders. The spaces are now only avail­able to permit holders.
According to Binstock, the 
reserving of 135 spaces for per- 
mit-holders resulted from com­
plaints filed by permit-holders 
that they were having trouble 
finding spots after 5 pm when
the lots filled with non-permit 
holders who could no longer 
park in the East Campus Garage. 
The 135 spaces made exclusively 
available to permit holders are in 
the Porter-Wean lot, the Fine 
Arts lot, and the Warner Hall lot 
where senior administrators hold 
several spots. Incidentally, the 
affected lots are the three most 
expensive places to park on cam­
pus. Costing $1,263 for an annu­
al pass, the lots are nearly twice 
as expensive as the $660 per year 
it costs to park in the East 
Campus Garage. Parking has, 
however, instituted a new $50 
per semester evening pass for the 
Fine Arts lot.
In addition to the 135 spaces 
restricted to permit holders, 
Parking Services was recently 
forced to make an additional 32 
spaces unavailable for the rest of 
the semester in the West Campus 
lot. Due to construction in the 
Doherty area, FMS required the 
use of the 32 spaces for construc­
tion equipment and trucks. Some
West Campus lot permit holders 
are being moved to the Hamburg 
Hall lot and the East Campus 
Garage while the construction 
takes place.
The 32 West Campus parking 
permits were rescinded accord­
ing to seniority, with staff and 
faculty with the fewest number 
of years at CMU losing their per­
mits first. Some staff and faculty 
did not react well to the news, 
expressing concern that they 
should have been told about the 
construction when they pur­
chased their passes at the begin­
ning of the semester. At this 
point it remains unclear as to 
whether or not Parking Services 
actually knew of FMS’s plans to 
take 32 West Campus spaces for 
the project when they issued 
passes for the lot in late August. 
Construction in the area is 
expected to be completed by 
December, and all permit holders 
should be able to regain occu­
pancy in the lot by the beginning 
of the spring semester.
Anti-terrorism bill controversial 
among students, congresspeople
Have any funny photos of your own?
Send them to jdavin@andrew.cmu.edu and we will ? 
select the best photos to be printed somewhere ? 
in The Tartan each week.
Caption is optional and selection of photos ? 
is at the discretion of The Tartan.
LEGISLATION, from page A1
greater authority to the Immigration and Naturalization 
Service to, “detain and remove suspected terrorists by expanding 
the definition of terrorists to include those who lend support 
to terrorist organizations.” The bill proposes steeper penalties for 
terrorists, including a maximum sentence of life in prison for fund­
ing terrorist acts, and focuses on destroying the financial infra­
structure of terrorist organiza­tions by imposing criminal liabili­
ty on terrorist groups’ financial 
resources. Aschroft’s proposal also sanctions emergency opera­
tions funding to be used for ter­
rorist victim relief and as rewards for information in connection 
with terrorist crimes.
It is the expanded freedom of 
the federal government to obtain 
information about citizens that 
has proved controversial among 
civil rights groups. In a recent 
press release, Laura W. Murphy, 
Director of the ACLU’s 
Washington National Office stat­
ed “Congress must take every rea­
sonable step it can to protect our 
nation against future attacks. At 
the same time, the people’s repre­
sentatives must also work to min­
imize the legislation’s impact on 
our free society.”
The USSA claims that the anti­
terrorism bill will severely erode 
the rights of students by allowing 
unimpeded government access to 
all college records of students 
suspected to be involved in ter­
rorist activity. The group believes 
the ability of the government to 
view student records without 
judicial intervention will encour­
age racial profiling, make college 
campuses vulnerable to bias 
related violence, and undermine 
the basic civil liberties of all stu­
dents.
In an effort to raise congres­
sional awareness of the USSA 
position, the group organized a 
massive call-in day on Tuesday, 
September 25 encouraging stu­
dents to tell their congressper- 
sons about their concerns with
the new legislation.
Kristy Ringor, spokesperson for 
the USSA, said that the call-in 
project has proven successful 
thus far and that more than 250 
students, including some from 
the University of Pittsburgh, have 
called congresspeople to express 
their opinion. “Student govern­
ments [have been] opening up 
their offices for student use and 
lending out cell phones for stu­
dents to make calls right on cam­
pus,” said Ringor.
Students at Carnegie Mellon 
have expressed support of legisla­
tion against terrorists, but voice 
concerns about the deeper impli­
cations of anti-terrorism legisla­
tion. “The Act makes sense to me, 
and seems like a necessary 
action; however, I don’t know 
how the government will prevent 
innocent people from being 
accused and possibly removed 
from the United States,” said Erin 
Dolan, a junior business major. 
“We have to remind ourselves of 
the freedom American people 
have and find the balance 
between ramped accusations of 
the innocent and zero tolerance 
for the guilty.”
The CMU branch of Amnesty 
International has drafted a letter 
for students to mail to their con­
gresspeople in regard to the anti­
terrorism bill, in which they state 
their opposition to “initiatives 
that would seriously restrict fun­
damental rights or lead to future 
violations of human rights.”
Currently, lawmakers are toil­
ing over the contentious elements 
of the anti-terrorism bill. 
Ashcroft had originally hoped 
that the anti-terrorism bill could 
be passed within a matter of days; 
now, it appears that members 
across party lines in Congress 
have reservations about the piece 
of legislation.
“I’m not going to bring a bill to 
the floor that’s going to be 
attacked by the left and the 
right,” said Senator Patrick J. 
Leahy, the Vermont Democrat 
who heads the Senate Judiciary 
Committee, “because it’s not
going to go anywhere.” Leahy 
informed Ashcroft last 
Wednesday that the disagree­
ments over complex pieces of the 
legislative package could take 
weeks, or even months to resolve.
According to a recent New York 
Times article, Republican 
Senator Arlen Specter of 
Pennsylvania has stated his con­
cerns about the administration’s 
proposal to allow the indefinite 
detention of immigrants if they 
are deemed to be threats to 
national security.
New York Times also reported 
that at the House Judiciary 
Committee’s hearing on the bill 
last week, representative Maxine 
Waters, a liberal Democrat from 
California, said that while many 
lawmakers had “bent over back­
wards” to rally behind the Bush 
administration since the 
September 11 attacks, “we have 
to draw the line” when it comes 
to civil liberties.
President Bush strongly sup­
ports the current form of 
Ashcroft’s legislation, comment­
ing “We’re at war, a war we’re 
going to win and in order to win 
the war, we must make sure the 
law enforcement men and 
women have got the tools neces­
sary within the Constitution to 
defeat the enemy.”
Representative F. James 
Sensenbrenner Jr., a Republican 
from Wisconsin who is the House 
Judiciary Committee’s chairper­
son, decided to postpone any 
action on the anti-terrorism bill 
until this week. Many provisions 
of the bill are expected to under­
go substantial rewriting, includ­
ing those that could most seri­
ously infringe upon the rights of 
students.
Civil liberties and constitu­
tionality will ultimately play the 
biggest role in the passing of the 
anti-terrorism bill. “The educa­
tion portion of this legislation 
must be careful [to not] restrict 
students’ civil liberties,” said 
Ringor. “Student rights must not 
be jeopardized in the fight 
against terrorism.”

---------------------------------------------------

THE TARTAN • OCTOBER 1, 2001
Americans flying again after attacks
FMS employees worry that new drug and alcohol 
policy will worsen management-union relationship
FMS, from page A1The alteration of wording in the previous four-year contract to reflect the more stream­
lined FMS union can become a hindrance in 
negotiations in which neither entity wants to concede more than necessary. According to sev­eral anonymous employees, a management that 
views union employees with disdain further 
complicates the situation.“Warner Hall doesn’t respect the union work­er or their contract,” said one employee. The 
FMS worker said the crux of the disagreement between Carnegie Mellon management and the 
union rested on several monetary issues as well 
as one new policy.“Drug and alcohol testing is an industry stan­
dard as set by the Master Builders Association. It is considered to be a safety issue for jobs relat­
ed to the construction and maintenance indus­try,” said vice president for business and plan­
ning Jeff Bolton.The campus police department maintains a 
drug and alcohol testing policy that is serving 
as a model for the FMS proposal. Security department employees may be subjected to a 
urine test if suspected by a supervisor of appearing under the influence of an alcoholic 
or illicit substance. No policy presently exists that permits the University to conduct random 
or individual-specific drug and alcohol tests on 
faculty or staff. CMU does provide drug or alco- 
hol-dependent employees with counseling and assistance.
“I would think a refusal to take the test is 
grounds for some disciplinary action,” said 
Kimbrough.One employee worried that the discretionary 
power that would be relegated to supervisors 
could lead to the execution of personal vendet­
tas. “If a supervisor doesn’t like you for person­al reasons, they can ask you to take a drug test 
and if you refuse, they’re going to assume
you’re guilty.”
While personal dislike is a dubious phrase, 
the employee charged that some FMS African 
Americans have been victims of the racial prej­udice of white supervisors. The union member charged that discipline is imposed unfairly and 
blacks are denied opportunities given to 
Caucasian employees.Kimbrough denied racial discord within the department, but declined to disclose whether 
FMS employees had formally made race-related 
grievances or complaints.Questions of yearly salary raises have proved 
to be another sticking point in negotiations. The CMU proposal calls for a yearly 2.5 percent 
increase in salary. However, the previous 
accord incorporated a 3.5 percent yearly raise.“The 2.5 percent offer is based on market 
comparisons among similar positions and general inflationary trends and different eco­
nomic times,” said Bolton.However, such rhetoric does not mollify 
employees who notice that despite tuition 
increases, enrollment has steadily increased the last four years and a recent fundraising 
campaign raised nearly $400 million. The 2.5 
percent wage augmentation also allows for an 
additional 0.5 percent increase based on mutually acceptable criterion according to 
Bolton.FMS workers are also discouraged by a 
smaller University contribution to its pension 
program than that of faculty. The most recent 
pension offer starts the pension contribution 
at 5 percent in year one, but escalates by one 
percent each year. The final contract year has 
an 8 percent contribution from CMU, which is comparable to the faculty pension plan.
“The markets for faculty and FMS employ­
ees are very different. The economic require­
ments for attracting and retaining nationally 
ranked faculty are not necessarily an appro­
priate point of comparison,” added Bolton.Differences in pension plan contributions 
and a new drug and alcohol policy have some employees wondering whether a double stan­dard exists between salaried and hourly union workers.
“It would be fair to assume that if you were 
to give union employees drug and alcohol tests, then you should give the same to facul­ty and staff,” said one FMS employee.
One employee drew reference to a University that asks employees to contribute 
to humanitarian causes like the United Way, but refuses to deal with its own inequities — 
whether it is disparities between union and 
staff pay scale, poor relations between man­agement and union, or employee racism.
Several employees also worry that the 
University may attempt to outsource more 
maintenance operations on campus in the same make as dining services.“The University has traditionally out­
sourced functions where it thought others could do a better or more efficient job of pro­
viding the services in question,” said Bolton.
There has been a backlash of opposition 
from concerned students at other universities about outsourced departments. In the spring 
of 2001, students at Harvard University 
staged a sit-in protesting that the school lacked a living wage for its dining and janito­
rial employees. Harvard has agreed not to 
outsource such components of the school. 
Kimbrough stated that there are no current 
plans to outsource the maintenance divisions 
of Carnegie Mellon.He remains optimistic that a contract can be 
settled soon.
“It’s gratifying that [the University and the 
union] are in agreement that we exist for the 
purpose of supporting the environment for 
the students.”
Negotiations between FMS and CMU have been hampered by debates over 
drug and alcohol testing, salary raises, and pension plans.
Computing Services continues to search 
for solutions to slow CMU network speeds
NETWORK, from page A1 
over-utilized, they are now looking for alternative remedies due to the high cost of bandwidth expansion. They are currently paying nearly $400,000 per year for commodity Internet use alone. According to Computing Services, they have approximately doubled the amount they devote to this service every 18 months for the past several years. “At this point we don’t plan on increasing the bandwidth,” said Poepping.According to Poepping and Van Dusen, the main clog in the net­work is information going out. This 
includes people accessing informa­
tion from web and FTP servers run­
ning off the CMU network. Student distribution of music to computers 
off campus is believed to be a large contributor to the slow network 
speeds. Van Dusen said that this is one problem temporarily solved by 
the export limit. While the export limit does control the amount of 
mp3 and music files being 
uploaded, it also confines the bandwidth devoted to research and other legitimate academic trans­fers. “We need to figure out how to 
prioritize the network usage,” said Van Dusen. “This is a hard problem
technically.”
“...The problem isn’t as much with the amount of bandwidth that 
CMU has but with an overload of the, connection in the dorms,” said 
Karl Ross Greenley, a fifth year senior in Computing Services. “CMU purchasing more bandwidth 
will probably have little to no effect on the dorms, because, as you demonstrated quite aptly, the prob­lem is local to them.”
Computing Services has looked to see how other universities deal with issues of overloaded campus networks. The Computing Department at MIT controls net­
work usage by publishing a list of the top network users and then 
pulling connectivity for whole 
groups of students when individual users exceed their limit. With the 
information of individual network usage made public, MIT students tend to police themselves.
“Your network connection is in 
CMU’s own words a ‘right’... Nowhere does it say CMU must give you ‘X’ amount of bandwidth,” 
said Theodore Pham, a graduate student in electrical and computer engineering, in a recent 
cmu.misc.marketpost. “It does state that we all should get a fair share of
bandwidth. Clearly we are not get­ting our fair share of the bandwidth at present. And clearly there are those among us who are violating 
the Code of Ethics and violating the rights of our fellow CMU communi­
ty members. The question is do we police ourselves, or do we make it CMU’s job to police us.”“I think a much more reason­
able thing for CMU to do is to make the students pay for their 
bandwidth,” said Shane Keil, a senior in electrical and computer engineering. “Ninety percent of 
you would end up paying exactly what you’re paying now. 10 per­cent of the students would be get­ting a big bill, or maybe they 
would finally stop hosting warez 
servers.”Poepping said that Computing 
Services is currently working to get 
more community involvement and a more informed judgment of usage so that they can get that data 
to the decision makers.In the meantime, Van Dusen said 
that she hopes that students will do their part to help the situation. 
“[The network is] a shared 
resource. We ask individuals to realize and respect that,” said Van Dusen.
WASHINGTON (AP) — 
Americans are slowly returning to 
the skies and while security remains tight and time-consuming, 
the federal government is allowing 
some airports to resume one time- 
saving measure: curbside check-in.Air travel still is well below levels 
prior to the September 11 terrorist 
attacks. Federal Aviation
Administration spokesman William 
Shumann said airlines are flying 80 
to 85 percent of their pre-attacks schedules..
But the Air Transport
Association, a trade group for the 
major airlines, said preliminary 
estimates showed 665,714 passen­
gers flew on domestic flights 
Thursday, compared to 518,765 the 
Thursday before. The flights were 
46 percent full, up from 39 percent 
a week earlier.
A year ago, airplanes carried 
around 1 million passengers a day 
and were around 70 percent full.
There were no numbers on week­end flights, but airport and airline 
officials said it appeared more peo­ple were flying.
Bill DeCota, aviation director for 
the Port Authority of New York and 
New Jersey, which runs Kennedy, 
LaGuardia and Newark airports, visited all three facilities on Sunday 
and reported the terminals were busier.
Michael Wascom, spokesman for 
the airline trade group, said he flew 
into Baltimore from Pittsburgh on 
Sunday and the plane was full.
Monique Bond, a spokeswoman 
for the Chicago Department of
Aviation, said there were longer 
lines at security checkpoints at both 
O’Hare and Midway airports.
“That’s a good sign,” Bond said. 
“Increased lines mean there are 
more travelers regaining their con­
fidence in air travel.”
President Bush and members of 
his Cabinet have been encouraging 
Americans to return to the skies, 
saying it will help boost the econo­
my and return some normalcy to 
lives disrupted by the terrorist attacks.
Airline passengers are seeing 
greater security at airports and 
being encouraged to arrive two 
hours before departures. The 
National Guard has personnel 
patrolling major airports and more 
strenuous checks of passengers and 
baggage are being conducted 
everywhere.
Travelers at Los Angeles 
International Airport were forced to wait at shuttle depots and give up 
once-innocuous items such'as nail 
files and clippers, but most took the new rules in stride.
“The added security gets you, but 
it’s something that’s necessary,” 
said Bishop O.C. Coleman, 47, a 
New Orleans musician returning 
home after seeing his daughter per­
form at a concert in the San 
Francisco Bay area.
Los Angeles Airport spokes­
woman Nancy Suey Castles said 
officials have received relatively 
few complaints about the new 
inconveniences, but some of those 
complaints have been “pretty vocif­erous.”
“In the old days, if you went 
through the metal detector and if 
something beeped you could take 
something off and go through 
again,” Houston Aviation 
Department spokesman Ernie 
DeSoto. “Now you have to be 
checked with the magnetic wand and it takes a little bit more time.”
At least three airports — Dulles 
outside Washington, Houston's 
Bush Intercontinental and O’Hare 
in Chicago — are allowing passen­
gers of certain airlines to check 
their baggage at the curbs, albeit 
under stricter security procedures.
Curbside check-in was banned 
when airports reopened following 
the attacks. Shumann said the FAA now is approving requests from 
individual airlines and airports to 
allow curbside check-in if the 
tighter security measures are fol­lowed. He declined to identify the 
measures, citing security needs.
Meanwhile, former American 
Airlines Chairman Robert Crandall 
called for airline passenger reserva­tions to be checked against law 
enforcement lists of potential ter­rorists. He said on CBS’s Face the 
Nation that the airlines’ reservation 
systems should be tied in with the 
FBI, CIA and other anti-terrorism intelligence agencies.
Capt. Duane Woerth, president of 
the Air Line Pilots Association, said 
on CBS that all airports, including those that handle only cargo flights 
such as Federal Express or United Parcel Service, should have the 
same level of security as major pas­senger facilities.
During the Quarter Mile of Quarters charity event sponsored by Kappa Kappa Gamma and Kappa Delta Rho, students 
played on inflatable toys while listening to the live music of Sauce.
UK tested kid’s bones for fallout
LONDON (AP) — Thousands of 
bones were removed from dead 
British children without their par­
ents’ consent during Cold War-era 
nuclear tests, the nation’s Atomic 
Energy Authority said Sunday.
The femurs of about 4,000 young 
children were removed from 1954 
to 1970, agency spokeswoman Beth 
Taylor said. The bones were used in 
tests to measure the effects atmos­
pheric explosions of hydrogen 
bombs were having on humans and 
the environment.
“It is true that parental or rela­
tives’ approval wasn’t sought,” she 
said. “We assume that parents 
weren’t asked because it wasn’t the norm at the time.”
Similar revelations were made in 
Australia in June. The Australian 
Radiation Protection and Nuclear 
Safety Agency said bones from dead 
Australian children were once 
shipped to the United States and Britain for testing.
Taylor stressed that the British 
research — conducted in London 
and Glasgow, Scotland — con­
tributed to a decision to halt atmos­
pheric nuclear explosions in 1963.
“The program was done for the best of reasons,” she said. “It was 
the period when we were doing 
atmospheric tests of hydrogen
bombs, and there was quite a bit of 
concern about the dangers of 
nuclear fallout.”
The issue of parents’ control over 
their children’s bodies following 
death made headlines earlier this 
year in Britain when it was revealed 
that a Dutch pathologist working at 
a Liverpool, England, children’s 
hospital had stripped children of 
their organs during post-mortem 
examinations between 1988 and 
1995 — without parental consent.
A spokeswoman for Scottish 
Parents for a Public Inquiry into 
Organ Retention said Sunday that 
stronger laws were needed to 
ensure that parents had the power 
to decide what happened to their 
childrens’ remains.Dr. Dick Van Velzen left Britain in 
1995 to work at a hospital in 
Halifax, Canada, but was fired in 
1998, and later hired by a Dutch 
hospital. He lost that job in 
February, after Canadian police 
issued a warrant for his arrest for 
storing human organs in Canada.
In June, he pleaded guilty in a 
Nova Scotia provincial court to 
charges he had illegally retained 
organs removed during autopsies of 
two children. He was sentenced to a 
year probation for committing an 
indignity to human remains. Van
Veltzen’s work was not connected to 
Britain’s nuclear research.
The British government said in a 
January report that the actions of 
Van Velzen were “unethical and ille­
gal” and that “the pain caused to 
the parents by this dreadful 
sequence of events is unforgivable.” 
The doctor’s license to practice 
medicine there has been suspend­
ed.
A related report said more than 
100,000 hearts, brains, lungs and 
other organs were held by hospitals 
and medical schools across the 
country, many without the knowl­
edge of next-of-kin.
The nuclear-related tests in 
Britain and Australia concentrated 
on strontium 90, a radioactive iso­
tope that mimics the properties of 
calcium. The similarity allows bones 
and plants to absorb the isotope.
Researchers determined that 
atmospheric hydrogen bomb tests 
had been releasing potentially dan­
gerous levels of strontium 90 into 
the atmosphere, spurring the British 
government’s decision to halt such tests, Taylor said.
Hundreds of atmospheric 
weapons tests were conducted by 
nuclear powers in the 1950s and 
60s. Later, tests were conducted underground.

---------------------------------------------------

THE TARTAN • OCTOBER 1, 2001
Crime and Incident Report
Medical, 9/21/01, 5:46
PM — An officer working concert 
detail on the CFA lawn was 
approached by a person who said 
there was a male passed out on 
the ground in the middle of the 
crowd. As the officer responded, 
a male exiting the crowd was 
pointed out as the one who had 
passed out. When asked if he was 
okay, the male responded “Yes, 
but I just passed out and don’t 
remember anything that hap­
pened.” EMS responded and 
assessed the male, a Duquesne 
University student. He indicated 
that the reason he passed out 
may have been because he had 
not eaten anything that day. EMS 
advised him to get something to 
eat.
Criminal Mischief, 9/22/01, 
12:49 AM — Officers on patrol 
heard unusual, loud banging 
noises coming from a parking 
area. As they approached the 
scene, they found two individuals 
smashing two large objects onto 
the pavement. The officers 
stopped and questioned the 
actors. The officers discovered 
that the large objects were two 
parking meters sans poles. Both 
meters were full of quarters and 
had city of Pittsburgh ID tags. 
One actor claimed the parking 
meters had been purchased from 
a city junkyard for eight dollars 
apiece. Inconsistencies in this 
story led to further questioning, 
and the actor admitted to taking 
the parking meters from a street 
near Fuel and Fuddle. The second 
actor added that this was where 
the two had eaten dinner. The 
first actor was issued citations for 
disorderly conduct, receiving 
stolen property, and criminal 
mischief. The second was not 
charged for he appeared to be 
only an unwitting accomplice.
Fire Alarm Report, 
9/22/01, 11:43 PM — Three 
officers responded to a fire alarm 
activation inside a fraternity 
house on the basement level. The 
area of activation was clear of 
smoke, fire, or water. The officers
were approached by fraternity 
members who stated that the fire 
alarm pull station was mistakenly 
activated by a female who 
grabbed the device while 
attempting to prevent herself 
from falling. CMU police contact­
ed Guardian Protection and the 
city fire department and 
informed them of the false alarm. 
The system was reset without 
incident.
Liquor Laws/Vandalism, 
9/23/01, 12; 18 AM — A CMU
student called campus police to 
report a person vandalizing cars 
in the fraternity parking lot. The 
actor was detained and ques­
tioned by the responding officers. 
The victim stated that he had wit­
nessed the actor slamming into 
the side of the vehicle owned by 
the victim’s girlfriend. The actor 
also broke the radio antenna off 
of the vehicle. The actor was 
found in the company of another 
student who offered to pay for 
the cost of the antenna. The 
actor’s companion also stated 
that the actor had fallen into the 
vehicle due to his intoxication. 
The actor was issued a citation 
for underage consumption.
Fire Alarm Report, 
9/24/01, 11:16 AM — A stu­
dent inside the University Center 
called CMU police to report a 
small fire in the Original Hot Dog 
Shoppe. The responding officers 
questioned the supervisor of the 
“O,” who informed them that a 
deep fryer connection hose had 
caused the fire. The “O” supervi­
sor stated that he had shut off the 
connection valve and extin­
guished the fire prior to the 
arrival of the officers. The super­
visor was warned to keep the 
valve shut until maintenance per­
sonnel could rectify the problem.
Medical, 9/24/01, 5:40 PM
— An officer was dispatched to 
transport a CMU student to the 
hospital. The victim had been 
struck in the middle of his fore­
head with a free weight as he was 
working out in the Skibo weight
room. The victim sustained a 
large contusion at the site of 
impact. CMU EMS responded and 
assessed the victim prior to trans­
port.
Theft, 9/26/01, 8:21 AM —
Two students independently 
called campus police to report 
thefts that occurred in the Skibo 
gym men’s locker room. The 
unknown person(s) had used cut­
ters to remove locks from both 
students’ lockers while they were 
in the gym. The actor(s) then 
removed a bank card and $20 in 
cash from the first locker and a 
wallet containing credit cards, 
among other things, from the sec­
ond. A laptop computer and Sony 
PDA were left untouched. Before 
the credit cards were canceled, 
the actor(s) attempted to make 
purchases at two Champs fran­
chises, Burlington Coat Factory, 
Aeropostle, American Outfitters, 
World Foot Locker, and Best Buy.
Criminal Mischief, 9/28/01, 
1:28 AM — A security guard 
reported that unknown person(s) 
had spray painted the mottos 
“FACE YOUR FEARS” and “LIVE 
YOUR DREAMS” on two of the 
four rectangular sculptures locat­
ed on the Wean Hall patio. The 
phrases were lettered with a red­
dish fluorescent spray paint. A 
maintenance request was submit­
ted to have the mottos removed.
- Campus Sergeant Budzik 
reviews all reports prior to release.
- Only four people on The 
Tartan staff see the reports: the 
Editors-in-Chief, the News Editor; 
and the staffwriter typing the 
report.
- All personal names of com­
plainants, victims, suspects, and 
fraternities are omitted from the 
printed report. Ethnic descrip­
tions and other personal details 
are given only in the context of 
complete descriptions.
- Not every incident that occurs 
appears in the report.
Compiled by 
Jonathan Pearce
p. Something’s alwaysJennRsic
PHIPPS
This weekend, bring your parents to Phipps Conservatory 
and Botanical Gardens — located directly across from 
Flagstaff Hill in Schenley Park. Admission is 
FREE to CMU students with a valid ID!
One Schenley Park, Oakland 
Hours: 9 a.m. to 5 p.m. Tues.-Sun. (closed Mon.) 
(412) 622-6914* www.phipps.conservatory.org
CARNEGIE MELLON UNIVERSITY
System-On-a-Chip
MASTER’S CERTIFICATE PROGRAM
Lunch Presentation Wednesday, October 3 Singleton Room, UC 12- lpmECE
Undergrad and grad students welcome

---------------------------------------------------

Letters to the Editor
Forum
THE TARTANI October 2001
Erica Dibenedetto/Art Editor
to nationalize a US-owned oil refinery, 
the United States retaliated with hostili­
ties that continue to this day. On 
November 2, 1995, the United Nations 
General Assembly voted overwhelming­
ly — 117 to 3 — to condemn the US for 
its continuous blockade to Cuba. The international community called the US 
blockade to Cuba a “flagrant act of 
aggression” and a “blatant violation of 
international law.” Is this what Mr. Lo 
defines as a “just foreign policy?”
In the aftermath of the attacks of 
September, there has been a great deal of rhetoric in defining America as a “moral 
giant” waging a war of Good against Evil. 
President Bush has declared that those 
who harbor, support, and finance the ter­
rorists are as guilty as the terrorists them­
selves, but forgot to mention that the US 
themselves provided support and finance 
to state terror in Chile, El Salvador, 
Guatemala, Nicaragua, Indonesia, and
Cambodia, just to name a few. Even 
Osama bin Laden was once our “good 
guy” that we armed to fight against com­
munism in Afghanistan: if we start anoth­
er war, our allies now may well turn into our enemies later.
If what we really want is to live in a 
world free of terror, the solution may well 
lie in what David Anderson wrote in last 
week’s issue of The Tartan: take the risk 
of giving change a chance, work to build a 
world that is more free and democratic 
for everyone, including the 90 percent that lives in poverty so that we can have 
nice running shoes. If that means losing the freedom to choose between 20 differ­
ent brands of shampoos, I believe it will be worth it.
Give change a chance
Editor:
In his article in last week’s paper, 
Timothy Lo states, “legitimate govern­
ments not only have the prerogative to punish [illegitimate ones] with sanctions 
and embargoes, but are bound by duty to 
do so.” What Mr. Lo forgets to tell us, 
however, is that a multilateral organiza­
tion — the United Nations — and a set of 
rules (also called international law) exist 
to regulate disputes among states. In the 
absense of them, according to which standards could a state define itself as 
“legitimate” and punish all the states it 
deemed “illegitimate?”
Historically, the United States has 
supported corrupt, authoritarian 
regimes in Cuba even though they per­
petuated misery and hunger for many 
Cubans. When Fidel Castro threatened
After disappointing BOC, school 
must intervene to assist studentsAndrea Pellandra 
Doctoral Student 
Heinz School of Public Policy 
and Managementsparse showing at this year’s BOC is the 
complete lack of a substantial H&SS job 
fair. Granted, there is one in March, but 
it is much too little, much too late. 
What is needed is a job fair with all 
types of companies and organizations 
that are looking for history majors, 
English majors, and language majors. 
The present job fair is concentrated on 
Information Systems. While the 
University shouldn’t lose focus of that 
department, they should use their full 
resources available to bring in more 
“humanities friendly” employers. The 
presence of publishing companies, or 
companies looking for translators 
would be immensely helpful and appro­
priate at the H&SS job fair.
Duquesne University provides an 
example we can follow. They have a 
variety of humanities employers, and 
their job fair is a success. They have 
brought in firms such as WDVE, vari­
ous television stations, and publishing 
firms. Carnegie Mellon is beginning 
an H&SS-Heinz school initiative, 
which is a step in the right direction. 
Much more is needed though. The 
University has the resources through 
the career center to reach out to H&SS 
students and employers and assist 
both, but they don’t. A more concert­
ed H&SS job planning by the 
University and the Career Center, 
along with humanities student input 
would make for a productive and suc­
cessful H&SS job fair.
Last week, the Business Opportunities 
Conference (BOC) and the Technology 
Opportunities Conference (TOC) took 
place in the University Center. Many 
students expressed disappointment 
with the BOC, specifically with the lack 
of jobs available and the lack of corpo­
rate representation. The faltering econ­
omy and travel complications did have 
some degree of effect on the sparse 
attendance, but there was a 50 percent 
lower turnout of companies at this 
year’s BOC than last year’s. The TOC 
corporate drop-off was less than 10 per­
cent.
That fact was quite disheartening to 
those business, economics, and infor­
mation systems majors in search of full­
time opportunities or summer intern­
ships. Indeed, some direction from our 
University in the planning and funding 
of these events would be in order. The 
BOC has only been in existence for five 
years, as opposed to the twenty years 
for the TOC. Business isnt fifteen years 
behind the technological industry, nor 
should the BOC be fifteen years behind 
the TOC. It would behoove the 
University, specifically the Career 
Center and the BA/GSIA departments 
to assist in the planning of the BOC, to 
assure that there is proper employment 
exposure, and that there are the same 
opportunities available to those stu- 
¦dents who attend the BOC as there are 
•to those who attend the TOC.
Even more unfortunate than the
Gaining insight from tragedy
Time to ask why
world of evil, will thus allow us 
to sleep better at night.
What drove the terrorists to 
commit their terrible crime? Many fingers immediately 
point at Islam. This line of (or 
lack oO thought usually 
devolves into prejudicial and highly emotive attacks, which 
explain nothing. The hollow­
ness of this argument is appar­
ent when one thinks of the 
other twenty-million Muslims 
who are exposed to the exact 
same dogma, and yet do not 
commit any such destructive 
acts. The stereotype of all 
Muslims being the rabid Jihad 
warriors, ready to send Western civilization into obliv­
ion, is a construct exaggerated 
into truth by elements of the 
media which sensationalizes 
and accentuates all things 
“different.” This stereotype is 
responsible for the erroneous
sense, the belief in a higher 
power accords an escape from 
the otherwise constraints of 
mortal life; radicals use reli­
gion as a helicon for destruc­
tive action and not vice versa.
The origin of such hate and 
anger stems from the socio­
political happenings, past 
and present, of the Middle 
East. It is the pervading sense 
of complete helplessness that 
radicalizes a Muslim into an 
extremist, a citizen into a ter­
rorist. Imagine the mind of a 
Palestinian: his job is lost as 
the border is closed, his fami­
ly is subject to state-spon­
sored execution, his land is 
trod upon by Israelis, his gov­
ernment is powerless due to American and Israeli unilat­
eralism, his pride is eviscerat­
ed by his own impotence. He 
believes that the Americans 
and Israelis can get away
you want war. You want war 
because your sense of fairness 
— the American lives which 
you hold as sacrosanct — was 
thoroughly violated and 
immolated. You want justice, 
and you want war.
Did the so-called “footage of 
Palestinians celebrating” rile 
you? It made me angry, but for 
a different reason: the broad­
cast editors made the callous­
ness of 10 persons representa­
tive of all Palestinians by turn­
ing a three-second loop into a three-minute loop. One won­
ders what was on the other 59 minutes of unsuitable tape, 
Palestinians not celebrating, 
perhaps? It is undeniable that 
a segment of Palestinian soci­ety must have cheered the 
evaporating concrete, as we watched the exact same 
footage in shock and horror. 
Change the tape and the mir­
ror positions are reversed: 
hands up, how many of you 
cheered watching the black 
and white camera clip of a 
20001b Laser Guided Bomb 
race towards the cross hairs on 
an Iraqi building? Were the 
resultant deaths any different 
because it was war? Social 
critic, author, and magician 
Grant Morrison points out:“I imagine the mourners in 
NYC feel today very much like 
the mourners in Kosovo or 
Iraq, who watched American 
and British bombers level 
their bridges, hospitals, 
schools, and orphanages, 
killing tens of thousands of 
innocent men, women, and children in the process.”
The hackneyed explanation that the bombing was the work 
of madmen is a shallow denial, 
an intellectual cop-out that 
aggrieves me to no end. It 
averts questioning why four groups of adult, thinking, and 
rational beings, chose out of 
their own free will, to commit 
what we will always remember 
them for. Labeling the terror­
ists as “madmen” then gives us 
free reign and the re-assurance to damn and bomb them, 
because we are doing the 
“right” thing. This erroneous 
justification, based on the 
belief that we are ridding the
Justin Ker
We are defined not by our 
victories, but by our struggles. 
These words may ring hollow 
to those whose lives were bro­
ken on that Tuesday, when 
plane met glass, and fuel 
burnt men. I will not discuss 
emotions, as it is at best a 
futile attempt. And even if I 
could, what would be the 
point of that?
I believe that the next step 
then, is to analyze the incident 
and our reactions — and with 
the clarity of our hindsight — 
to formulate a considered 
response, instead of blindly 
swinging in reflexive violence. 
I advocate neither a false 
peace nor an unjustified war, 
but the simple logic of critical 
examination. With further 
thought, one realizes that there are many parallels 
between “us” and the terrorist 
camp, much more common ground than we would like to 
comfortably admit. Critical 
thought would define the 
most permanent and benefi­cial solution for all.
In the wake of the bombing, 
the latest trend is to quote, with 
requisite trepidation, the 
Japanese Admiral Isoruku 
Yamamoto: “I fear we have 
accomplished nothing but 
awaken a sleeping giant.” This 
expresses the desire for dispro­
portionate reprisals against 
Afghanistan and any supporter 
of terrorism. I fear that we will 
accomplish nothing if we trust 
the future to the wrath and 
vengeance of a furious, 
unthinking, and unstoppable 
giant. Most people forget that 
what started with 2,500 deaths 
at Pearl Harbor ended with 
200,000 dead and atomic holes 
in Hiroshima and Nagasaki. 
They also fail to quote Col. Paul 
Tibbert, who after pulling the 
lever, asked himself, “My God, what have we done?”
The Commander in Chief of 
the world’s most powerful mil­itary machine is calling for 
war. He wants war because
What drove the terrorists to 
commit their crime? Many fingers 
point at Islam. The hollowness of 
this argument is apparent... think 
of the other twenty-million 
Muslims who are exposed to the 
exact same dogma and yet do not 
commit destructive acts.
THE TARTAN
Carnegie Mellon’s Student Newspaper Since 1906 
EDITORIAL BOARD
ASEEM GUPTA and SARA STILLE 
Editors-in-Chief
BRAD GRANTZ, Managing Editor 
SARA HENNEBERGER, News Editor 
CHRISTINA KOSHZOW, Forum Editor 
BALAJI SARPESHKAR, Sports Editor 
BETH POWELL, Arts & Living Editor 
SRIRAM VAIDHYANATHAN, Science & Tech. Ed.
DANNY SILITONGA, Entertainment Editor 
ROBERT FETTERMAN, Business Editor 
JONATHAN PEARCE, Comics Editor 
BEHNAM FARAHPOUR, Photo Co-Editor 
SHAINA MCGRATH, Photo Co-Editor 
ERICA DiBENEDETTO, Art Editor 
SERENA LAM, Online Design Editor 
JUSTIN SUISSA, Dossier Design Editor 
SABRINA SMALL, Dossier Literary Editor
JENNIFER LIU, Business Manager 
ANISH KUMAR, Advertising Manager 
KRISTIN LALA, Copy Co-Manager 
EMMA REHM, Copy Co-Manager 
JOHN DAVIN, Production Manager 
LANCE BROWN, Systems Manager 
BETTY KIM, Darkroom Manager 
DEBBIE HALPERN, Personnel Manager 
CHRIS CHUNG, Special Projects Manager 
KO NAKATSU, Asst. Photo Editor 
PETER WANG, Asst. Darkroom Manager 
PAUL RICHELMI, Asst. Entertainment Editor
accusations against Islam.
Instead, it is hatred and 
vengeance, pure and unadul­
terated, that drives Islamic extremists. Despite having 
been depicted quoting the 
Koran, enacting religious cer­
emony etc., religion is no 
touchstone for bombs and 
shrapnel. The facade of reli­
gion, even if the extremists 
themselves do not realize it, is 
an outlet to justify their 
hatred. For example, the added weight of the supernat­
ural in believing “I am follow­
ing the instructions from my 
God” is superior in power, 
proclamation, and justifica­
tion, when compared to the 
impotence of “I hate you.” In a
with anything due to their 
economic and military
strength from arbitrary
imprisonment and assassina­
tions by Israel to the 
American sanctions which 
have affected 500,000 Iraqi 
children. Note how his sense 
of fairness is violated. He 
does not see things being any 
different 50 years from today 
or 100 years from today. In 
his despair, the only pallia­tive is religion, and so he 
immerses himself in it, twist­
ing the teachings to suit his 
desperate needs. Robert Fisk, 
the celebrated Middle East 
correspondent of The 
Independent explains:
See KER, page A8
CONTRIBUTING EDITORS Matt Brun, Sriram Gollapalli, Ish Harshawat, Bryan Kaplan, Cassandra Knight

---------------------------------------------------

THE TARTAN • OCTOBER 1, 2001
Say it ain’t so, Michael
But, Seriously...
by: Sean Mintus
It’s come to my attention that this column needs a new title. Sure, 
“But Seriously...” has served me well in the past, but I’ve recently realized that it just doesn’t get the message across. The title is meant to keep anyone from taking to heart what is contained herein. Sadly, 
all of yo,u easily-offended sissies out there read far too much into what I write, so to hell with you. I’m through pandering. If you don’t 
like it, read Christian’s editorials. That should be tame and mun­
dane enough for you.I was going to come up with a title myself, but I think it’s time to 
give a little something back to the readers who have kept me writing here long after the remainder of this paper’s staff would have liked to kick my sorry ass to the curb. Therefore, I’ve got an unopened bot­tle of twelve-year-old Macallan single malt scotch waiting for 
whomever comes up with the best new title for this column. Send 
suggestions to smintus@andrew.cmu.edu and make it snappy.This was a rough week. The weather turned sour, the women 
even more so, and that damn pile of work refuses to be put off any longer. I’m being pulled in too many directions. Drawn and quoted, 
if you will.Sleep has come in brief spurts, if at all, and my mind has begun to recoil in terror at the notion that it’s in for another semester of liv­
ing on caffeine, nicotine and the occasional candy bump. This morn­ing is no different. The sun has begun to break in the east, bringing 
on its heels another day of dashing from place to place in an endless 
effort to gain that all-important degree. But I must press on, lest this baneful institution succeed in putting my name on the list of those 
whose stamina was not quite enough.For the third week in a row, the news has been less than coopera­
tive. Our military has mobilized, ready to deliver whatever atavistic mongrels they can find straight to whichever god they choose. The 
bald eagle’s talons have been sharpened and retribution is at hand. 
It’s a shame all of those gutless Taliban soldiers are deserting. I was 
looking forward to seeing footage of their innards splattered across 
the barren Afghan landscape as the northern resistance danced 
around their corpses.The lone topic of any interest that’s managed to squeak through is 
Michael Jordan’s comeback. Let me begin by saying that I am vehe­
mently opposed to this whole deal. Jordan’s glory-hounding is only 
going to get him hurt. I figure about forty games into the season, 
he’ll realize that the hard court is no place for a 38 year-old billion­
aire. Of course, if you all knew what I know - namely that Jordan’s 
comeback is an attempt to relinquish a massive gambling debt 
brought on by his blackjack addiction, pay off half a dozen paterni­
ty suits, and bail out a team that he never should have dumped 
money into in the first place - then you might be able to look at this the way I am. I’m forced to wonder how all of those loyal Bulls fans 
feel about being abandoned. At least you’ve got the Cubs. For anoth­
er couple of weeks, anyway.Let’s face it - this has already been done bigger and better by that lovable Canadian, Mr. Lemieux. Mario’s comeback was as simple 
and pure as it gets. He missed the game. He missed the love of the 
best hockey fans on God’s green earth. He wanted to see his team 
pull itself out of mediocrity and get back to its rightful place among 
the NHL elite. And he did.I will give credit where credit is due. Michael Jordan is the most 
gifted athlete ever to lay his hands upon a basketball. What he did 
during his career will most likely never be touched by anyone else 
so long as lanky doofs are paid ridiculous sums of money to hock Nikes and throw a ball through an elevated hoop. But Jordan 
already had his comeback. It was lackluster in its most brilliant 
moments. What makes him think this will be any different? My 
guess is an over-inflated sense of self worth and lots of crystal 
meth, but that’s just me.I’m going to have to file this under that ever-growing category of 
“dumb things that never should have happened.” Incidentally, a lot 
of comebacks are listed here. Yep, I think I’ll stick Jordan right there 
in between the Sammy Hagar and Gary Cherone incarnations of Van 
Halen. Neither one should ever have left the launching pad. That 
band was dead the second Diamond Dave left.
Let’s see here, who else? Fleetwood Mac. Big mistake. I’ll stick 
John Travolta in there too. And before you start screaming Pulp 
Fiction at the page, admit that Vincent Vega could have been 
played by anybody else smart enough to let Sam Jackson act. At 
least then we would have been saved the pain of Broken Arrow, 
Battlefield Earth and those talking baby movies that make me 
break out in horrible fits of vomiting and shaking every time 
they’re on TNT.Carrot Top and his I-8OO-COLLECT commercials are in there. So 
are Ellen Degeneres, bell bottoms, the American version of Whose 
Line is it, Anyway?, VW Bugs, Kevin Costner, The Go-Go’s, Vanilla 
Ice, Christianity and Jeff George. All would have best been left in 
the past.
What troubles me most is that these things would have been left 
dead if there were not a legitimate market for them. Nobody does 
anything unless there are big bucks involved. That’s right. We’re to 
blame. There really is no accounting for taste.
Every time that one of these tasteless saps feels the need to 
infect our media with their presence, it prompts me to make two 
lists. One consists of good things that never went away, and the 
other made up of good things that never should have died.
See MINTUS, page A8
John Kim/Art Staff
America’s “religious Taliban” divides 
United States, hurts image abroad
Andy Baker
Three weeks ago, the United States 
suffered one of the worst acts of ter­
rorism in its 225 year history. The 
ensuing collapse of the twin towers of 
the World Trade Center, in all its sur­
real horror, also symbolized the fall of the average American’s sense of invul­
nerability. A time of crisis became a call for unity and a struggle to under­
stand who would do such a thing and 
why. We sought answers so that nei­
ther we nor our children would ever 
have to go through such tragedy 
again. As we heard the grim tales of 
thousands buried under rubble and 
people leaping to their deaths from 
the doomed buildings, we also heard tales of hope. We heard of police turn­
ing away throngs of volunteers 
because they already had more than 
enough people involved. In spite of the backlash against Muslims and any­
one thought to be of Middle Eastern 
descent, the call for unity brought 
together people divided by race, reli­
gion, economic status, and sexual ori­
entation. It brought together a divid­
ed Congress for the first time in two 
decades of bitter partisan dispute.
Sadly, in spite of this overwhelm­
ing show of national unity and patri­
otism, there are those for whom patriotism is subordinate to divisive 
hatred, to whom democracy and the 
democratic principles of liberty are detestable and evil. They defy the 
spirit of unity that has grown in the 
wake of the tragedy of September 11, 
and seek to undermine the principles 
and values upon which the United 
States was founded by spreading 
their poisonous and divisive rhetoric. 
Through such hate and bigotry, they 
stoop to the level of the terrorists who 
perpetrated the September 11 attack 
and to the level of the governments 
that harbor such terrorists. They are 
the religious right, and more specifi­
cally, TV evangelist Pat Robertson
and conservative commentator Reverend Jerry Falwell.
In his remarks on the September 
13 broadcast of Robertson’s evangel­
ical TV program, The 700 Club, 
Falwell decried many civil liberties 
groups and organizations that lobby 
in defense of the Church-State sepa­
ration that is implied by the First Amendment’s prohibition of both an 
establishment of religion and of 
repression of the free practice of reli­
gion. Declaring that “God will not be 
mocked,” Falwell proceeded to 
blame the ACLU, People for the 
American Way, pro-choice groups, 
gay/lesbian rights groups, and reli­
gious liberties groups for the terror­
ist attacks. Pat Robertson offered 
similar sentiments earlier in the 
broadcast, claiming that “We have a 
court that has essentially stuck its finger in God’s eye and said we’re going to legislate you out of the 
schools.... We have insulted God at 
the highest levels of our govern­ment. And then we say ‘why does 
this happen?’ ”
I would like to ask Robertson, 
Falwell, and the readers if this sounds 
even remotely like the teachings of 
Christianity. Whatever happened to
Not surprisingly, these divisive com­
ments did not go unnoticed. Even 
President Bush, whom I have often vil­ified for being too conservative, called 
the remarks “inappropriate.” Opinion 
web site TomPaine.com, which pub­lishes an opinion ad every Wednesday 
in the New York Times, focused its 
September 19 ad on Robertson and 
Falwell’s remarks. Calling them an 
“American Taliban,” the ad reads “Just when we need unity and national dia­
logue ... How do we respond? We get 
the ranting of theocrats.” Other Christian ministers and priests have 
openly criticized the remarks. In a ser­
mon delivered on September 23, 
Reverend Stephen W. Lucas of Highland Park Baptist Church in 
Austin, Texas said “let me make myself 
exceedingly clear ... God is not in the 
business of killing innocent people over what some narrow minded, judg­
mental preachers neurotically call sin, 
because the God I worship doesn’t 
kill sinners.” Meanwhile, Deacon 
Susan-Jayne Caballero had this to 
say about the controversial broad­
cast: “As a Christian, specifically a 
Lutheran Deacon, who lives and 
works in New York City amidst the horror and aftermath of September
For nearly as long as they have been 
preaching, Falwell and Robertson have 
painted distorted, inflammatory 
images of religious views.
“love thy neighbor as thyself?” 
Certainly, in this troubled time, unity 
and brotherly love should be above rebuke. In that case, why is it that 
extremists like Falwell and Robertson 
try to turn Americans against each 
other? Who gave them the right to 
decide that unity in the face of adver­
sity, unfettered generosity, and com­
passion is “evil” liberal ideology? 
Aren’t these things virtues that should 
be a part of the moral fiber of everyone 
trying to live a good and decent life?
11,1 am saddened by the inaccurate, 
cruel and ignorant assessment of the 
tragedy by Reverend Robertson and 
Reverend Falwell.”
Responding to the flurry of criti­
cism, Falwell was quick to apologize 
on network television. Declaring that 
he “misspoke totally and entirely,” 
Falwell went on to say that he “did not intend to do what [he] obviously 
did.” Although Falwell and 
Robertson have warned people to 
See BAKER, page A8
THE TARTAN
Carnegie Mellon's Student Newspaper Since I906
STAFFWRITERS 
Dave Anderson, Burt Bacharach, Amanda 
Chase, Krissy Choi, Lindsay Clark, Cam 
Crews, Ryan Friedman, LaRita Hamilton, 
Ryan Hamilton, Charles Martin, Sean 
Mintus, Jennifer Resick, Christian 
Restifo, R.J. Sikdar, Vivek Sridharan
ART
Matthew Blum, Jamie Divine, Adam 
Grossi, Reagan Heller, Alissa Taylor
COMICS
Warit Achavanuntakul, Avinash Baliga, 
Kevin Burns, Martin Hock, Ann Lewis, To 
Han Lu, Neal Martin, Jason Slater, Zac 
Smith
PHOTO
Katie Aerni, Jen Aivone, Sally Bozzuto, 
Jeremy Canceko, Roberta Chiu, Jeff 
Cullers, Anthony D’Auria, Jeff Easter, 
Sofia Gutierr, Matthew Lanken, Shanmei 
Lim, Nuri Miller, Michael Raisman, 
Lindsay Spriggs, Gary Tsai, John 
Whiteman
DARKROOM 
Eric Barker, Erica Barnes, Eve Chen
PRODUCTION 
A.R Abid, Ekta Agrawal, Michael 
Castellana, Eve Chen, Jen Cheng, Lisa 
Gentry, Nithya George, Gautam Jain, Joy 
Lee, Julie Ludwick, Jonathan Minkowitz, 
Aarthi Padmanabhn, Knot Pipatsrisawat, 
Mark Rau, Yeming Shi, Neal Shyam, Nat 
Torut
COPY
Joyce Boss, Michael Croland, Claire 
Jauregui, Alexander Meseguer, Kristen 
Romonovich, Laura Vaillancourt, Julie 
Watt, Jeremy Wortman
JUNIOR STAFF 
Alex Arbit, Adam Atkinson, Aditya 
Agrawal, Pratik Agarwal, Sharad Bajaj, 
Andy Baker, Fatima Boujarwah, Mayank 
Bubna, Jonathan Brathwaite, Amanda 
Chase, Nina Durai, Joe Elliott, Kathleen 
Fischer, Arthur Goh, Pearl Goldman, 
Alissa Green, Christopher Kim, Justin Ker, 
John King, Maria LaMendola, Tiffany Lee, 
Elizabeth Levin, Colin McCabe, Julia 
Myers, Tejas Pathak, Surya Singh, Sinduja 
Sriniavasan
The Tartan is the student newspaper of 
Carnegie Mellon University. It is a weekly 
newspaper published by students during the 
fall and spring semesters, at no cost to mem­
bers of the University community. It is print­
ed by Western Pennsylvania Printing, Inc. 
Subscriptions are available for the semester 
or academic year. The editorials appearing at 
the beginning of the opinion section are the 
official opinion of The Tartan editorial board. 
Columns and political cartoons are the opin­
ions of individual creators. The Tartan 
reserves the right to reject or condense any 
column or political cartoon. Letters to the 
Editor are opinions of authors who are usual­
ly, but not necessarily, members of the 
University community. A letter intended for 
publication must be signed and include the 
writer’s address and phone number for verifi­
cation. Names may be withheld upon 
request. The Tartan requests that letters be 
no longer than 350 words. The Tartan 
reserves the right to condense or reject any 
letter. Letters to the Editor must be submit­
ted by 5 pm the Thursday before publica­
tion. Copyright © 2001 by The Tartan. The 
Tartan editorial board reserves the right to 
withhold from publication any copy it deems 
unfit for publication. Office: University 
Center Room 314. Phone: 412/268-2111. 
Mailing address: The Tartan/Box 17/Carnegie 
Mellon University/Pittsburgh, PA 15213- 
3890.
Email: tartan@andrew.cmu.edu 
Funded in part by your Activities Fee.
All rights reserved.
Library of Congress 
ISSN#:0890-3107.
The Tartan is a member of 
the Associated Press.
Elijah Dobrusin
Sophomore
Mechanical Engineering
“A little bit. It’s the first time I’ve seen 
America come together. At the same 
time it reminded me of WWII.”
Sylvette Sein
Junior
BHA
“We’ve always considered America a 
safe haven. Whether folks admit it or 
not, they’ve lost that sense of security.”
Jonathan Bogush
Senior
English Lit/Creative Writing
“I think if anything, it has helped to 
re-instill my faith in human nature.”
Greg Krauland
Junior
Mechanical Engineering/Design
“It’s like having your house robbed. 
We’ve definitely been violated.”
Jessica Pearlman
First-year student 
Art
“Initially it did. I felt insecure at first.”
A PERSON’S OPINION
Compiled by Callie Alvanitakis 
Photos by Callie Alvanitakis
Much has happend in the last few weeks. In order to get our students’ reactions 
to the recent events, we asked the following question:
How has your perception of America changed since September 11?

---------------------------------------------------

A8THE TARTAN • OCTOBER 1, 2001
God in the classroom:Using religion to expand views
Christopher Kim
li...I know that the hand of God is the promise of my own, 
And I know that the spirit of God is the brother of my own, 
And that all the men ever born are also my brothers and the 
women my sisters and lovers,
And that a kelson of the creation is love.” - Whitman
Meaningless death. It’s a frightening notion because it 
leads to meaningless life. And because we’ve been exposed to 
¦ so much of it — though indirectly (I hope) — there is no doubt why so many of us have returned to the search long forgotten, the search for the meaning of it all. Truth is elusive, 
but religion is one way to it; thus our churches overflow and we hear constant chants calling God to bless America. Some 
pray for comfort, some for peace, others for justice — it’s the variety of religious experience manifested. Some are even 
saying that it’s time to bring religion back into schools, stir­
ring up an old and embittered argument that will trouble our 
country and our minds as long as separation of church and 
state exists. We all know the arguments; the undertones of 
the famous “Monkey Trial” of 1925 recur in our thoughts as readily as the debate is started. Yet despite all our liberal, 
educated affirmations that tell us that one side (science’s 
side) was, is, and ever shall be right, the same questions arise 
time and time again. The answer, however, like truth, remains so far aloof that it baffles one to sift through its filthy 
soot-layered depths, but I hope to come out clean.We’re the children of the liberal East, where education is 
praised, consumerist capitalism is religion (in the most liberal 
sense of the word), and “faith,” along with hope, joy, and LeAnn, are names given to country hick girls conceived in 
haylofts after hoe-downs. We prize our Bill of Rights, our 
inalienable freedom to believe, yet associate “faith” almost 
with “blindness.” Why? Maybe it’s because we’re smart and 
them other folks are as dumb as their corn-husks. I doubt it; intelligence isn’t dealt out by region. I’m sure that you howev­
er, like myself, looked upon the Kansas school board’s decision to institute creationism into its public schools with as much 
authoritative credulity as we look upon Strom Thurmond (lest 
the fact that he’s still Senator or even still alive). Kansas final­
ly ended up returning to evolution; maybe they got their 
heads straight. But the view to which our education prescribes — scientism — has a darker consequence, subtler but more 
foreboding than the ignorance it seeks to replace.
Science is invaluable, but scientism, the view that truth can 
only be observed through science, is the latter’s deification. It 
seems as though such a view, against a backdrop of such pre­
vailing ignorance arising from religion, was unavoidable, but
we must ask ourselves what truth we can find in science, real­ly. It can tell us that our bodies are 70 percent water, and that 
we’re reducible to atoms and other subatomic particles, quarks, etc. But this emphasis on truth in matter is nothing more than materialism, the doctrine that matter is the only 
reality. If all we are is this matter, this detached heap of flesh and bones that consumes vitamins and proteins and inhales oxygen and nitrogen, where does meaning lie? Why do we 
feel such misery when heaps of this flesh and bone, concrete, 
and glass molecules hit concrete floor, regardless of velocity? 
And if love is just a means to ensure that our gametes fuse and genes get passed on, and is in scientific “reality” nothing more than a biochemical reaction equal to eating large quantities of 
chocolate, isn’t meaninglessness all there is? Science can improve our lives in many ways, but it can’t give us the mean­
ing that all of us seek by merely living this mystery and that we feel must exist. It’s the unseen order that all religions 
speak of, the world of the human spirit that, despite all sci­
ence’s attempts to ignore, is as real as life and consciousness, 
existing within and beyond all our modes of comprehension.What problems religion faces when brought to schools 
stem from the possibility of the state’s miscarriage of reli­
gious teachings that have plagued history so often — hence 
the separation of church and state. However, there exists a difference between the omission of religious teaching and the 
view that our current education espouses, that religious teaching, in being “unscientific,” is outright wrong. Any pos­
sible solution would have to include religion in schools not as 
imposing a certain “faith,” but as an unbiased teaching of the 
historical wisdom traditions that religions provide. As subject 
matter, religion is delicate and may be difficult to compre­
hend, particularly for those who would be directly affected by 
the implementation of such policies: dumb kids. However, such implementation can only make them less dumb, as their 
educations would encompass an added realm, thereby foster­
ing thought and enlightenment that, through a lifetime of 
academic deprivation, may tragically never occur.
It is thus that we learn from religion and reap its benefits — 
it only follows that we should pass our wisdom onto our 
youth. Despite all their flaws and confusing doctrines, they 
are the teachers of lessons of meaning and value eternal, the ones that we seek amidst all the distractions. One of these 
resounds especially clearly now: that before we’re Tom or Jim 
or Fanny, before we’re students, teachers, rednecks, bums on 
the street, or millionaires, before we’re Christians, Jews, 
Muslims, Buddhists, Sikhs, even before we’re Americans, 
we’re human beings. Like the words of Whitman, brothers 
and sisters: there is one race, that — by what is real and meaningful in this world — whether or not you believe it to 
be under God — is indivisible, with liberty and justice for all.
Christopher Kim is a senior business major. He welcomes all 
responsible replies to his article.
Never ignore voices of the oppressed
KER, from page A6 “Eight years ago, I helped make a 
television series that tried to explain 
why so many Muslims had come to hate the West. Now, I remember some 
of the Muslims in that film, their fami­
lies burnt by American-made bombs 
and weapons. They talked about how no one would help them but their God. 
Theology versus technology, the sui­
cide bomber against the nuclear 
power. Now we have learned what this 
means.” As we have seen on that tragic 
Tuesday, America cannot win, when it fights a war of self-preservation 
against a destroyed people intent on 
self destruction.
In its lengthy and extensive support 
for Israel and often Israeli action, 
America has made itself an obvious 
target for Islamic extremists; the bea­
con of freedom has become the clay 
pigeon for revenge. Although the ter­
rorist action on Tuesday cannot be condoned, it is not as “senseless” nor 
as without cause as most people like 
to think. Some argue that American 
and Israeli unilateralism in the 
Middle East is necessary for stability, 
that dialogue with the Palestinians is 
pure naïveté. If one believes in such 
an uncompromising foreign policy, 
then the thousands who gave their 
lives to falling rubble, Palestinian 
shrapnel, or Israeli missiles must 
coldly be accepted as the price paid for the continuing “stability.”
The only thing of value which we 
may take away from the new pyramids 
of broken stones is a simple lesson: to 
never ignore the voice of the 
oppressed. The British Empire learned 
that lesson early on in the American War of Independence, but Bush 
remains adamant, even heightening 
his unilateralist stance in recent days. 
His refusal to engage the Palestinians 
in dialogue on equal terms will trap 
everyone in the attack-retaliation 
cycle. By focusing purely on reprisal, 
he is treating the symptoms, rather 
than the root of the disease that is 
Arab dispossession, and this threatens 
to overwhelm us all. Real dialogue with the Palestinians may allay their 
helplessness, and a mutually respect­
ful relationship could start a compro­
mise, but unilateralist actions elimi­
nate the possibility of both. The 
painfully apparent solution is to seri­
ously address the pressing concerns for Palestinian land and Israeli securi­ty. What should be solved by diploma­
cy and intelligence is instead met by 
Ibombs and bullets, which will do 
[nothing to quell the simmering 
¡Palestinian anger that threatens to |explode again.
How is a Tomahawk cruise missile kitting in some Afghan’s house going 
lto bring about peace? How is Osama
bin Laden’s death going to solve the geopolitical conundrum of Palestinian 
diaspora? Bush knows that expending 
cruise missiles will solve nothing, yet he will press on, for no American 
leader wants to appear weak in a time 
of crisis. At the back of his mind, I am 
sure, are the record approval ratings 
that his father achieved during the Gulf War. When torn between what is 
possibly right and what is definitely 
popular, it would take a man of 
resolve and strength to choose the for­mer. I fear that Bush lacks the resolve, 
and I fear that he lacks the strength. I 
fear that such attacks will have the 
reverse effect: expanding the physical and social destruction in Afghanistan 
will further radicalize a country which 
has long believed America to already 
be the enemy. In the ashes of Osama’s 
death will rise a hundred more 
bin Ladens.What about justice? Perpetrators 
must be accountable for their deeds, 
but as a member of a somewhat civi­
lized society, I have always believed in 
trial by law, not trial by cruise missile. It
ety has the tenet “innocent until 
proven guilty” as the underlying ratio­
nale for the process of trial; we only shame ourselves with the application of such double standards. Osama bin 
Laden could indeed be behind this 
tragedy, but not until a court of law 
has passed judgment. While criminals 
of the Bosnian war are brought before 
the International Court of Justice, 
why is Osama bin Laden being tried 
by Seal Team Six? Justice, by its own 
definition, is not the privilege of the 
innocent, but the right of all.
In all fairness, one cannot feel out­
raged over American deaths alone 
while ignoring the plight of the ten 
thousand (literally) who die everyday through war, hunger, poverty, and 
oppression. What about the deaths 
that do not make it onto CNN? 
Sudanese deaths, Iraqi deaths, Palestinian deaths, non-American 
deaths. Does the nationality of the corpses, and the associated viewer rat­
ings matter? I am not making this a 
suffering contest; I am trying to frame 
this incident as it stands — compared
In all fairness, one cannot feel outraged 
over American deaths alone while ignoring 
the plight of the ten thousand who die 
everyday through war, hunger, poverty, 
and oppression. What about the deaths 
that do not make it onto CNN?
is indeed good to feel righteous. And 
this is possibly the worst drug of all: 
invoking these two syllables will forgive 
and whitewash all our sins. There is no 
need to account for terrible and unre­
strained actions of a furious, unthink­
ing, and unstoppable giant, when vio­
lence is committed in the (abused) 
name of justice. The irony is succinct: 
the terrorists were adherents to this same brand of justice as well, if we are 
to believe the reports of the bombing 
being a jihad.
In their quest for justice, the 
authorities have not produced a sin­
gle shred of unequivocal evidence 
pointing to Osama bin Laden as the 
mastermind. One “Arabic Flight 
Manual” was found, and the State Department spokesman says, “I have 
no doubt that Osama bin Laden is 
behind this tragedy.” I have the dis­
tinct impression that the name 
“Osama” and the term “Islamic 
Fundamentalists” in general seem to 
be the over-scaped goats which sati­
ate the public baying for blood. 
Where is the justice in that? Our soci-
to other not-so-bright-spots in human 
history — to highlight the universality 
of human pain. What we grieve over 
today, is unfortunately, a mundane 
and daily occurrence all over the world 
known to many Palestinian mothers 
and Israeli fathers.
Such is the inherent human condi­
tion: we are sanctimonious, factious, 
and cruel. These qualities are embed­
ded in us and will persist far longer 
than those people who have been 
wishing for “World Peace” on New 
Year’s Eves for the past 2000 years. 
Suffering, struggle, and pain are 
hence an intrinsic part of our human­
ity; there is no denying nor escaping 
them. What truly defines us then, is 
how we react to the never ending 
struggles which existence throws at us. Are we forever doomed to be the 
creatures of bloodlust, or can we tran­
scend into the beings of reason 
and wisdom?
Justin Ker is a first-year CIT student. 
He welcomes all responsible replies to 
his article.
Jeremy Canceko/Art StaffDo not edit my entertainment
Sharad Bajaj
You can’t trust Freedom when it's not in your 
hands...That, of course, is a line from the Guns N’ 
Roses song “Civil War” — a song that is lucky 
to still grace the airwaves after the recent 
crackdown on radio play lists. Clear Channel, 
the world’s largest radio ownership, gave a list 
of 150 songs that were thought to be “lyrically 
inappropriate” to its local stations, and in the 
wake of this public relations move, several 
radio stations across the country have already altered their play lists in a similar manner. 
These lists are available all over the Internet, 
but I do not want to go into how “inappropri­
ate” any of these songs are. The real issue is 
whether “censorship” in the name of sensitivi­ty has any real basis or whether it is just a hasty 
action that does nothing to quell the painful 
sentiments that we all feel.
Obviously, many of us cannot begin to per­
ceive how tragic the recent attacks really were. If the least we can do is show sensitivity to the 
hundreds of thousands of people who have lost 
someone close, then I guess we can also look at 
this suggested “banning” as a show of that same sensitivity. But the radio broadcasters and other organizations have already made 
this decision for us, treating this act of censor­
ship as their own moral responsibility.
This may seem like the right thing to do in 
the circumstances; after all, there is nothing 
wrong with showing a little sensitivity. However, it only looks like sensitivity on the 
surface. The “censorship” actually has struck 
upon much deeper issues, and those seem, in 
my mind, to outweigh the compassion.
We must realize that every time we ban some­
thing, we are actually banning our right to that 
something — this is an infringement of our free­
dom. The very purpose of the bombing was to 
infringe on the freedom of the United States of
America, the freedom that is the foundation of 
the greatness of the nation. I realize that we must be sensitive, but that doesn’t mean we 
should take anything away from the people. Let 
the people decide what they want to listen to, 
and let them cope with it in their unique way.
I think it’s quite the opposite of what the 
music companies think: If anything, those 
songs might help people get over the tragedy. Why shouldn’t people listen to “New York, New 
York?” After all, no matter what happened, we 
must still look at New York with the same awe 
with which the entire world views it. If we 
dwell on what happened, then we are letting 
“them” get the best of us.Some of the “banned” songs deal with death 
and tragedy. Well, you can’t run away from 
something. If we do, then we can never stand 
tall again; these songs will help certain people 
to come to terms with their loss. I know listen­
ing to “Knocking on Heaven’s Door” when you’ve just lost someone close can get you real­
ly down (I’ve been in the situation before), but 
it helps you to actually come to terms with the 
loss, and more importantly, with yourself.Anyway, whether or not these songs will help 
in the end is really not my point. My point is that 
people have to have the right to decide for them­selves what they want to hear. People can shut 
the song off if they do not want to listen to it, but 
they are the ones who have to be able to make 
that choice. That is what makes freedom so beautiful. No matter what the situation, it allows people to think, dream, and live exacdy 
how they want to and not how they are told to. 
That is really what makes this nation great; it is 
the fundamental principle of democracy. 
Nobody has the right to make decisions for you.
All they are doing through censorship 
(unknowingly) is keeping this nation in the 
tragedy. We have to move on, yet never forget 
what happened. This is not an oxymoron at all. 
This is the right way to deal with the tragedy. 
Taking away the rights of the people is not.
Sharad Bajaj is a believer in true freedom, 
something that we will never have.
Some things should never happen
MINTUS, from page A7
The first has George Carlin, Tom Petty, licorice, YooHoo, 
Guinness, Talking Heads, 
firearms, sex, shoplifting, 
Harrison Ford, The Simpsons, 
marijuana, Hunter S. 
Thompson, college football, 
and Joe Pesci.On the second list are 
Hendrix, Mark Hammill, The 
Beatles, honesty, Cheers, Jim 
Morrison, smoking on air­
planes, The State, Johnny 
Carson, legal drinking at 18, 
Calvin and Hobbes, Bradley 
Nowell, the Steel Curtain, my 
sanity, Willie Stargell, The Time 
and good old Andrew Carnegie.
Seriously, that evil Scottish 
bastard needs to come back.
He’d run this place right. No 
more of this scooting around in 
dark corners, padding pockets, 
and screwing over the student 
body crap. Hell, he created this 
college because he knew he 
couldn’t trust his children with 
an inheritance. Now that’s the 
way a business should be run. If 
we could reincarnate our 
founder, he’d storm into 
Warner, slap Big Ger upside his 
bloated, shiny head and set 
things straight. He’d have this 
place as tight as a drum within 
six months and not have a crin­
kle in his kilt to show for it.
Ah, the perfect world: Jim 
Morrison, Andrew Carnegie, 
Joe Pesci and the Good Doctor sitting around a smoky room
drinking whiskey and solving 
the school’s problems. They’d 
balance the budget, finally tell Parkherst to shove it, bump up 
funding for the departments 
that really deserve it and then 
head out to the bars to crack 
some skulls. Even I’d donate 
money after graduating if I 
knew it were going to buy 
those vicious mongrels booze and drugs. In that case, the 
end would more than justify 
the means.
Sean Mintus is a junior profes­
sional and creative writing 
major. He’d like to thank Jimbo, 
his own personal Samoan psy­
cho, for collaborating with him 
on this week’s burst of insanity.
Relious right preaches wrong message
BAKER, from page A7 
not take Falwell’s statements 
out of context, look at another 
statement made by Falwell in 
the interview. When Falwell 
began his assault on the ACLU, 
he said “I know I’m going to 
hear from them on this.” This 
suggests that Falwell knew his 
comments were going to be inflammatory and divisive,, 
and yet his drive to score polit­
ical points took precedence 
over the central tenets of the 
faith that he professes to 
believe in. This makes me 
wonder about the sincerity of 
his apology. Reverend Barry 
W. Lynn, the executive direc­
tor of Americans United for 
the Separation of Church and State, also criticized the 
apparent evasion of responsi­
bility by Falwell and 
Robertson. “Far from repudi­
ating their extremism, 
Robertson and Falwell seem 
intent primarily on escaping 
the wave of national revulsion 
their remarks sparked.”
So what does this do for 
America’s reputation in other 
nations? For nearly as long as 
they have been preaching, 
Falwell and Robertson have 
painted distorted, inflammato­
ry images of religious views 
that do not match their narrow 
interpretation of Christianity. 
Although paganism is one of 
their favorite targets, Islam ranks in the top five of religious 
systems targeted for this 
destructive propaganda. This is usually achieved by portraying 
Muslims as fanatical terrorists 
who are willing to die in an 
effort to destroy America with 
its Christian majority. This, of 
course, then spills over into the
violence we see enacted upon 
Muslims and those who appear 
Middle Eastern whenever ter­
rorists attack American inter­
ests. It is the extraordinary 
media presence and political 
influence of those like Falwell and Robertson, combined with 
the apparent festering hostility 
and bigotry towards Muslims 
that makes America seem like a 
hypocritical nation paying lip 
service to religious freedom in 
the eyes of those like Osama 
bin Laden. Is it any wonder 
then, why America is a focal 
point of anger for fanatical ter­
rorists? Could it possibly be any 
clearer as to why the Religious 
Right is sometimes referred to as the “Religious Reich?”
Andy Baker is a senior major­
ing in Information Systems and 
welcomes all reasoned replies.

---------------------------------------------------

A SUITE FOR LESS THAN 
A HOTEL ROOM
state-o
Pittsburgh’s Compì
Elegantly furnished one- or two-bedroom apartment suites include an equipped kitchen, 
fluffy linens, TV, VCR, cable movies, free local phone service, and reserved parking.
Conveniently located at 5405 Fifth Avenue, Shadyside. Two blocks from Walnut Street’s 
145 fashionable shops and 12 delicious restaurants. One mile to CMU/Pitt/Hospitals.
Health. Clarity. Freedom. 
Shadyside Yoga offers 
more than 30 classes per 
week at convenient times 
for individuals at any 
level. The 12-week Fall 
session begins October 8. 
Call now for our class 
schedule and brochure. 
Also offering Pilates.
(412) 441-2222.
DAILY, WEEKLY, MONTHLY RATES
5405 Fifth Avenue 
Pittsburgh, PA 15232
(Ai?) 441-4444Cu) ‘i‘11 ‘±‘±‘±‘±
http: /I www. shady sideinn. com
The Center for Health 
Promotion offers one-on- 
one personal training with 
Pittsburgh’s Best Certified 
Fitness Trainers.
As a proven achiever you've always been passionate 
about the way you spend your days. You demand 
more from yourself and those around you. Now you 
want to find an organization that shares your pas­
sion for success. You'd love to find a small-company 
environment where you can work closely with 
experts in a wide variety of functions. Yet you 
hunger for big-company impact, where your career 
can set an exciting course across functional, organi­
zational, even global lines.
At Johnson & Johnson we celebrate and promote 
small-company environments that nurture the needs 
of individuals and teams. Our decentralized, adaptive 
organization has grown to become the world's most 
broadly based health care company. Through our 195 
operating units in 51 countries, we bring real, in- 
depth solutions to nearly every corner of global 
health care.
Look deeper at the Johnson & Johnson Family of 
Companies.
Carnegie Mellon University
Johnson & Johnson Presentation 
and Networking Reception
Join us to hear more about full-time and 
internship career opportunities in 
Information Management, Engineering, 
Research & Product Development and Salis,
Date: Monday, October 8,2001 
Location: Rangos Ballroom 
Time: 7:00 Vo
Perhaps it's time you discovered one of the many small-company 
environments behind the big-company impact of Johnson & Johnson
www.j nj .com/ca reers
©Johnson & Johnson 2001. An equal opportunity employer. 
SMALL-COMPANY ENVIRONMENT/BIG-COMPANY IMPACT is a service mark of Johnson & Johnson.

---------------------------------------------------

THE TARTAN « OCTOBER 1, 2001
Simple. Ask your employer about Earth Share. ^t|
The workplace giving program that brings the leading
environmental groups under one umbrella. And over 90% / 
of Earth Share contributions go directly to the groups. To learn 
more please visit our website at www.earthshare.org.
Earth Share
TER RE OISMEBRELA TER CIBNWR HUD LM 1USR 6MS ILA
don't believe everything you feel.
You’ve been pulled from the world you once 
knew. There’s a reason for it. It’s depression. 
It’s very prevalent. But it’s also very treatable.
TRtAT DEPRESSION
#1 Cause of Suicide 
http://www.save.orgOPEN FRIDAY THRU SUNDAY
SEPTEMBER 28THRU OCTOBER 7
OPEN THURSDAY THRU SUNDAY
OCTOBER 11 THRU 28 
PLUS TUESDAY, OCTOBER 30 
AND WEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 31
GATES OPEN AT 6:30 BA BOAT 00B NOT SAIL.
PITTSBURGH'S#! 
HALLOWEEN ADVENTURE! 
DOCKED AT STATION SQUARE 
NIGHTMARE HOTLINE 412-355-7944
GET YOUR EXCLUSIVE U.S.S. NIGHTMARE COUPONS 
JÜHstrarsA GllSui?
STATION «JUARE DOCK • DOWNTOWN PITTSBURGH 
WWW.GATEWAYCUPPER.C0MFRIENDS DON’T LET FRIENDS DRIVE DRUNK.
Discover the power to innovate
www.II.mit.edu/careers/calendar.html
eveo
When «doifs run oof- of ideas, they can feel as frosf-ra-f-ed as kids. Connect For Kids h«s 
tKc>us«nds of resources for helping children h your community, For more information, coll |-888-£>4-4— KIDS.
G-uidance for Grown~Ups
ßj BENTON
itS. o.$ Ti’-anspyrlstior-
AcapulcoCancúnJamaicaBahamasFlorida
DRUNK DRIVING DOESN'T 
JUST KILL DRUNK DRIVERS,Nicholas Esposito, killed Oct I•>’. 3980 at 8:25pm.
Next time your friend insists on 
driving drunk, do whatever it takes to 
stop him. Because if he kills innocent 
people, how will you live with yourself?
CARNEGIE SCIENCE CENTER'S
If you are pursuing a degree in:
• Electrical EngineeringJfclHPil^: * physics
WafiftX- • Mathematics
• Computer Science 
Mechanical Engineering 
Aeronautics/Astronautics
or a comparable field, our technical staff members zvelcome the 
opportunity to consider you for an on-campus interview.
For more infoimation about our scheduled on-campus recruiting 
activities, please visit our zvebsite or your Career Services Office.
Put some power behind your ideas. At MIT Lincoln Laboratory, your research and ideas will be 
transferred directly into the development of leading-edge, real-world applications, including air 
defense, space surveillance, communications and air traffic control systems.
If you are looking for a way to power up your career, forward your
scannable resume by e-mail, fax or mail to: resume@li.mit.edu; *1
Fax: 781-981-2011; Human Resources, MIT Lincoln Laboratory,
244 Wood St., Lexington, MA 02420-9108. Job Code CN01.
An Equal Opportunity Employer, M/F/D/V US Citizenship is required. | | ¦
Friday Evening
• The Businessman Rock Band
• 1000 Luminaries
• Zambelli Ground Fireworks
• KDKA Live Broadcast
Saturday
• Birthday Cake
• KDKA Live Broadcast
• Activities for the Kids
General Admission
LINCOLN LABORATORY
MASSACHUSETTS INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY
One of ihe four 
Camegio Muioums 
of PittsburghVisitor parking is Free in Carnegie Science Center lots

---------------------------------------------------

THE TARTAN « OCTOBER 1,2001Ail
West poised for another Cup run
PICKS, from page A12
the team hopes to advance past the
second round.
Even the lowly Rangers and 
Islanders, normally the whipping 
boys of the division, look to turn 
some heads this season as well. 
With the flurry of trades both 
teams made this summer, including 
the Islanders’ acquiring Yashin and 
Peca, and the Rangers’ pickup of 
Lindros, one of them will make the 
playoffs. However, there’s only 
room for one, and the Rangers’ lack 
of reliable goaltending will proba­
bly steer them to an early off-sea­
son.
Western Conference — Central DivisionIn the West, things look to be a bit simpler. The majority of the summer’s trades have involved players moving East, except for one notable exception: Detroit.The Red Wings have gone out of their way to get Vezina Trophy win­ner Dominik Hasek from Buffalo, winger Luc Robitaille from L.A., and free agent sniper Brett Hull, and are the best bet to come out of the Western Conference.The only other team in the Central that will challenge the
Wings is the Blues, and it’s my opinion that Hasek will serve as the Wings’ trump card in a pitched con­test between the two.
Northwest Division
Need we even bother? The only 
significant question in the 
Northwest is whether the 
Avalanche will actually lose more 
than 20 games this season.
The only teams that have a 
chance of making the playoffs are 
the Oilers and the Canucks, but 
neither of them is going to survive 
a seven-game series against one of 
the Western elite, barring a miracle 
like the Kings almost managed last 
season.
Pacific DivisionAs usual, the Stars should be able to run away with the division, but time will tell whether they can cope with the Avs and the Wings, one of whom they’ll need to face to escape the West. If the Stars return to their “Grumpier Old Men” style of offense, they might be too tired by April to make a long run.After beating the decimated Wings and extending their second- round series with Colorado to seven games, the L.A. Kings will be
looking to go somewhere this sea­son.If they could get as far as they did last season after trading away cap­tain Rob Blake, think what they could accomplish without sniper Luc Robitaille.
As for the Finals, I’m envisioning 
a Wings-Flyers series. While 
Colorado has maintained most of 
their roster, I think the Wings have 
more motivation this year, especial­
ly since the Avs accomplished their 
mission of “winning one for Ray.” 
Hasek probably thinks it’s his turn, 
and will turn up his game accord­
ingly.
In the East, the Flyers did well 
even with the Lindros distraction, 
and if their retooling pays off, they 
should be able to overcome the 
Devils. At the end of the day, I still 
think the Wings have more bal­
anced depth, however, and their 
advantage in goal is enough for me 
to have them winning the Cup in 
six games. If this turns out not to be 
the case ... well, preseason picks 
are meaningless anyway, so I won’t 
feel too sheepish about it.
Balaji Sarpeshkar wishes he didn’t 
even have to mention the Flyers, but 
has no such luck.Annie Clark/Art StaffTartans rout Diplomats, remain unbeaten
DIPLOMATS, from page A12
Junior Jeff Klinefelter picked off a pass to give the Tartans good field 
position on the Franklin and Marshall 24 yard line. Senior Eric 
Zimpher and junior Scott Jubeck 
would connect for an eight yard 
reception and Palmer’s kick was 
good to bring the score to 24-0 at 
the half.Coming out in the second half, 
Zimpher was not able to play much 
because of a hit in the first quarter 
which shook him up. The team doc­
tors examined him and the coaches decided to sit him out for the next 
half.“He got hit early in the game, and 
doctors checked it out,” said 
Lackner. “Eric also wasn’t feeling 
well all week. He took the shot, and 
afterwards he wasn’t himself. We made the decision to take him out, 
but I see no reason why he won’t be able to go next week.”
Probably due to Zimpfer’s injury, the Tartans were only able to amass
25 yards in the air for the game. 
The Franklin and Marshall 
turnovers helped the Tartans 
tremendously, as the Tartans ended up with only 182 offensive yards 
for the entire game.
“Physically Eric was there, but I 
don’t know how much he was there mentally,” said Lackner. “I think 
the passing yards had a lot to do with Eric’s inability to function properly.”
Franklin and Marshall was final­
ly able to put together a strong 83 
yard drive with a couple nice pass­
es by Scott Stephen. Stephen would 
finally make a two yard scamper, 
followed by a Steve Linebaugh kick 
that put the score at 24-7.However, CMU was quick to 
strike back. Garrod returned the 
next kickoff whopping 90 yards for 
another CMU touchdown. Palmer missed the kick and the score was 
brought to 30-7.
“There was great blocking on that return,” said Lackner. “Drew 
picked the lane and blew right
through it.”The final CMU scoring drive was 
a methodical running game. 
Sophomore Chris Kay topped things off with an 8 yard scamper, 
and Palmer’s kick was good this 
time, for a new score of 37-7.The Diplomats scored once 
more, but it was too little, too late. 
Tailback Brian Coggins had a two 
yard run with 3:52 left in the game, and the extra point was good. The 
scoring ended at 37-14 in favor of 
the Tartans.
The leading rusher for the 
Tartans was senior Jeff Stolper 
with 60 yards. Junior Sebastian 
Smelko had two catches for 18 yards, and the leading tackier was 
junior Joseph Manger with seven 
tackles and two interceptions.
Next week is a bye week for the 
Tartans, but they will be back in action October 13 for 
Homecoming. They take on a strong team in Washington 
University at 2 pm at Gesling 
Stadium.
A Look at the UAA
Saturday’s Results
• Chicago 51, CWRU 34
— Maroons compile 507 yards 
on offense, led by QB Josh Dunn, 
who threw for 295 yards and scored 3 TDs.
• RPI 31, Rochester 14
— QB Jeff Piscitelli becomes 
Yellowjackets’ career passing 
leader, with 5,228 career yards.
• Rhodes 7, Wash U. 6
— 24th ranked Bears defense 
holds Rhodes to 190 yards of 
offense, but fail to score on extra 
point and three FG attempts.
Current Standings
Team
CMU Chicago Wash U. 
Rochester 
Case
W
111
0
0
Record
4-04-0
4-12-2
1-3
Media quick to pass buck on Redskins failures
REDSKINS, from page A12 
Third, Turner’s teams simply 
could not win tight games, espe­
cially in 2000. Despite beating the 
playoff-bound Rams, Buccaneers, 
Ravens, Giants, and Eagles, the 
Redskins were 3-6 in their nine games decided by a touchdown — 
attributing for all six of Turner’s losses on the year.
The fickle media was quick to 
transfer blame from Turner onto 
Snyder, characterizing him as 
“meddling.” Before the 2000 sea­son, ESPN columnist Chris 
Mortensen, who predicted the 
Redskins in the Super Bowl, wrote, “The Redskins have garnered more 
attention than any team because 
owner Dan Snyder just has a way 
about him. He opened up his wallet 
and spent money, and I think he 
invested wisely.” After Turner’s fir­
ing, he was sure to note that “most 
NFL coaches and personnel men 
believe Snyder is living in a bit of a dream world if he really thought 
the Redskins were the best team in the league, even on paper.”
The 2001 season has brought three points, two blowout losses, 
and one scapegoat quarterback for
the Redskins. Jeff George has been 
characterized as a “soft” player, one who has been quoted ad nause- 
um as saying that “leadership is overrated.”
However, the notion that George 
is a wasted talent is a bit suspect. 
True, his career record of 46-78 is 
hardly impressive, especially for 
one with such talent. But his past 
three seasons in which he has start­
ed the majority of the season have 
been fairly successful — the 1995 
Falcons, 1997 Raiders, and 1999 
Vikings all had potent George-led 
passing offenses. Peculiarly, 
though, all three teams were 30th 
in the league in passing defense, 
suggesting that George has never
played on a truly solid team.1999 was George’s finest year. 
The 1998 Vikings were 15-1 and 
the highest scoring offense in NFL 
history with both Brad Johnson 
and Randall Cunningham at the 
helm, averaging 34.8 points per 
game. However, in 1999, they 
struggled to a 2-4 start and aver­
aged only 20.0 points. Jeff George 
came in as starter and the team fin­
ished 9-3 the rest of the way, 
including the playoffs.
Thrown into the fire in 
Washington in 2000, George strug­gled with a decimated receiver 
corps. Washington running back 
Stephen Davis was ailing and Brad 
Johnson was on-again off-again as 
an effective starter, so George had 
no way to get into a rhythm with his 
players.
With Marty Schottenheimer tak­
ing full control of the team in 2001, 
only bad things could happen. 
Schottenheimer’s emphasis on a 
low-risk, “ball control” offense sim­
ply did not properly use the skills of 
a Jeff George, and therein lays the 
problem. Asking Jeff George to run 
a conservative offense is like using 
a shotgun to mow the lawn. It is 
simply not the right way to use
George’s talents.So now Washington has rid itself 
of a quarterback it could not use, and Tony Banks is the savior.
Or is he? Many George-bashers 
are quick to note his woeful win­
ning percentage, but what of 
Banks’? Try 41 percent. This is the 
same player who could not make 
the Dallas Cowboys, for crying out 
loud.Now, Washington is worse than a
team in disarray. It’s a virtual 
British Parliament. The players are 
near mutiny over Schottenheimer’s 
demanding ways, so who knows if 
they will even see their next oppo­
nent on a playing field. The 
Washington Redskins are no longer 
an organization in need of soul- 
searching — the word “organiza­tion” implies an organized group 
working towards a common goal.
However, the truly frightening 
prospect is that we must listen to 
the fickle media for the remainder 
of the season. If the team ever turns 
it around, we will hear how 
Schottenheimer was a genius for 
the George move, despite the fair 
amount of criticism he had for 
being in that position in the first 
place considering he could have cut 
George months before the season
even started.If the team wallows in its own 
mediocrity, the media will call for 
Daniel Snyder to step in and do something, despite blasting his 
“meddling” ways the previous year. 
The one thing the mainstream 
media will not do, however, is hold 
itself accountable to its word. And that is a scary prospect.
Sports Briefs
Men’s soccer
wins pair
Bouncing back from last week­
end’s loss to Washington 
University, the men’s soccer team 
added two tallies to its victory 
count by steamrolling La Roche 
College 4-0 last Wednesday, and 
stealing a last-minute 2-1 match 
from the University of Chicago last 
Saturday.
The Tartans traveled to Chicago 
this past weekend, and came away 
with a tight victory that was 
sealed in the 87th minute of play 
by first-year midfielder James 
Steidel. The goal broke a 1-1 tie 
and won the game for the Tartans. 
Senior goalkeeper Tom
Dougdherty recorded nine saves 
in the game. The Tartans’ record is 
now 4-1-0.
The men will be at St. Vincent 
College on Tuesday for an after­
noon game, and then will play 
UAA rival Brandeis University on 
Friday at 5:30 pm at Gesling 
Stadium. The game against 
Brandeis will be the third UAA test 
for the Tartans, who are 1-1-0 
now in the UAA.Runners get 
good results 
at Dickinson
The cross country teams headed 
out to Dickinson College last
Saturday, and in the face of tough 
competition, both the men and 
women managed to come away 
with a solid finish.
In the men’s 8k race, the CMU team finished in sixth place over­all, with sophomore Pat Fischer and fifth-year senior John Hursh finishing in 24th and 36th place, respectively.
On the women’s side, junior Katie Aerni lead the Tartan pack, finishing in 9th place. The team placed 10th overall.
A summary of results for both team is as follows:
Men
24. Pat Fischer 27:04
36. John Hursh 27:32
41. Alex Thompson 27:38
42. Mat Dennerline 27:41
43.Mike Rossi27:45
56.Ethan Coffey28:04
57.Adam Wierman28:05
63.Darren Shultz28:11
64.Alex Weiss28:13
75.Mike Duke28:31
78.Dennis Pegher28:35
88.Jared Markowitz28:43
104.David Wynne29:15
Women
9.Katie Aerni23:0855.Kelly Chin25:3460.Amy Graveline25:5266.Allison Spare26:0984.Jamie Davidson27:2588.Janet Park27:4592.Erin Boyd28:18
Compiled by
Indians beat Twins 
to clinch AL Central
CLEVELAND (AP) — The 
Cleveland Indians returned to the 
top of the division they’ve always 
believed was theirs.
Bartolo Colon pitched eight 
shutout innings and Jim Thome 
hit his 49th homer as Cleveland 
clinched its sixth AL Central title 
in seven years, routing the 
Minnesota Twins 9-1 Sunday.
After injuries led to a second- 
place finish behind Chicago and 
deprived them of a postseason 
berth last year, the Indians set out 
in 2001 to reclaim the Central, 
which they won from 1995-99.
When Omar Vizquel flipped to 
second baseman John McDonald 
for the clinching out, the Indians 
merely walked out of the dugout 
like they had 88 other times this season.
They gathered at the pitcher’s 
mound for hugs before walking as 
a group to center field where pop­
ular pitcher Charles Nagy helped 
hoist the division pennant.
And once they finally reeled in 
the surprising Twins following the 
All-Star break, there was no stop­
ping the Indians.
Ellis Burks added a two-run 
homer and Jolbert Cabrera and 
Kenny Lofton had two RBIs apiece 
as Cleveland finished the season 
14-5 vs. Minnesota.
The Twins, who led the division 
by five games on July 16, fell to 
26-43 since the break.
Cleveland’s clinching victory in the regular season home finale at 
Jacobs Field was somewhat tem­
pered as manager Charlie Manuel 
remained hospitalized with an 
abdominal infection.
Manuel, 57, is expected to stay 
in the Cleveland Clinic at least 
another day and may not rejoin 
the Indians until next weekend in Toronto.
Manuel was on the phone with 
TV announcers from his hospital
room for the final three outs.
“I’m very happy for them,” 
Manuel said. “But I can watch the 
expressions on their faces and 
take joy from that. I wish I was 
there with our guys.”
While he recovers, Manuel can 
begin setting his pitching rotation 
arid finalizing his roster for the 
postseason, something he missed 
out on doing a year ago when the 
Indians missed the playoffs.
Colon (14-11) allowed four sin­
gles and overpowered the Twins 
whenever he needed to. The right­
hander, who will likely start Game 
1 of the playoffs, walked four and struck out 10.
Thome’s 435-foot shot to right- 
center — his seventh homer 
against Minnesota — off Rick 
Reed (4-5) put the Indians up 2-0 
in the fourth. With the homer, 
Thome moved within one of tying 
Albert Belle’s single-season club 
record set in 1995.
Travis Fryman and Einar Diaz 
followed with singles and moved 
up on a throwing error before 
Cabrera hit a two-run single, giv­
ing Cleveland a 4-0 lead.
Burks, finally starting to hit 
with power again after a thumb 
injury, followed Thome’s double 
in the fifth with his 27th homer, a 
towering drive to left off Travis 
Miller.
Reed’s throwing error on a pick- 
off attempt allowed the Indians to 
take a 1-0 lead in the fourth. Reed 
threw one wide of the bag trying 
to get Cabrera, who went to third 
and scored on Lofton’s sacrifice 
fly.
The Twins left the bases loaded 
in the third against Colon, who 
after giving up a leadoff single and 
two walks, struck out Corey 
Koskie before Russell Branyan 
made a diving catch in left to rob 
Torii Hunter of an RBI base hit.
classified
Opportunities
Native speaker of foreign language
needed to baby-sit on a regular basis. 
Car not necessary. Call (412) 323- 
9545.
Earn extra cash. Wanted PT FT wait 
staff/cooks/dishwashers. Khalil's 
Restaurant - fine dining. 4757 Baum 
Blvd. Call Zelfa at (412) 621-4681 or 
(412) 683-4757.
Fraternities! Sororities! Clubs! 
Student Groups! Earn $1,000-52,000 
this semester with the easy 
Campusfundraiser.com three hour 
fundraising event. Does not involve 
credit card applications. Fundraising 
dates are filling quickly, so call today! 
Contact Campusfundraiser.com at 
(888) 923-3238 or visit www.campus- 
fundraiser.com
Mentors needed to work with ele­
mentary aged boys in city schools 12- 
20 hrs/wk. Education, counseling, 
social work, or related field and experi­
ence working with children preferred. 
Send or fax resume and cover letter
to: Growing With Trust, Inc., 2851 
Beford Avenue, 3 - 2nd fl, Pittsburgh, 
PA 15219 412-681 -8949 (fax)
Pittsburgh Deli Company, 728
Copeland St. Shadyside. Hiring day­
time positions. Apply in person. 412- 
682-3354
Classified Rates
1-20 words........$10.00/wk
21-50 words........$12.00/wk
51-100 words......$15.00/wk
MAIL TO:
The Tartan, Box 1 7 
Carnegie Mellon University 
Pittsburgh, PA 15213-3890
• Classifieds must be paid in cash 
or check before first run date
• On-campus departments and 
organizations may pay by journal 
transfer
• Due by 5 pm the Thursday 
before publication
Christopher Chung 
& Balaji SarpeshkarTHE TARTAN
268-2111

---------------------------------------------------

NEWS
Administration
Director of Intramurals: Mike 
Mastroianni, x8-2214 or mma8+ Assistant Director: Mike
Grzywinski, x8-2214 or immike+ Secretary: Amy Kiryk, x8-2053 or 
kiryk+
President: Mike Edwards, x2-2993 
or medwards+
Women’s President: Amy Tsao, x2- 
2938 or ast+
Important Dates
Thursday, October 4 — IM Board 
Meeting at 3 pm in Gym Conference Room
Wednesday, October 10 — IM 
Cross Country Meet at 4:30 pm on Flagstaff Hill
Thursday, October 11 —
Mandatory Rules Meeting for 
Intramural Soccer at 4:30 pm in 
Small Gym at Skibo Gymnasium
Sunday, October 14 — IM Golf 
Tourney at Schenley Golf Course
Sports in Season
Flag Football — The season ends 
this week. Playoffs will begin 
Wednesday. The playoffs will be 
posted by noon Wednesday. Teams
should contact the IM Office to 
find playoff times.
Tennis — The season has begun at 
the university courts. Matches are 
played Monday through Thursday 
nights. Please check the UC bul­
letin board for make up times. 
Please stay off the tennis courts 
during varsity practice. Only ath­
letic shoes permitted on the courts 
at all times. No boots, sandals, or 
dress shoes.
Co-Rec Volleyball — Playoffs begin 
tonight with the championships 
taking place Thursday.
Water Polo — The season began 
last week at the UC Pool. 
Schedules are available.
Bowling — Matches are played at 
the Pittsburgh Athletic Association 
lanes on Fifth Avenue in Oakland. 
Matches began last week. 
Schedules are available at the IM 
Office. Report scores to the IM 
Office.
Sports UpcomingSoccer — There will be a mandato­
ry soccer rules meeting on 
Thursday, October 11 in the Small 
Gym at Skibo Gymnasium. All teams must have a representative.
IM Golf Tournament 
The 2001 IM Golf Tournament will 
be Sunday, October 14 at the 
Schenley Park Golf Course. Green
fees are reduced to $13 with a CMU ID and club rental is $6. Tee 
off anytime and bring score cards 
to the IM Office in Skibo Gym.
IM Cross Country Meet 
The 2001 Cross Country Meet will 
be held Wednesday, October 10. 
The meet will start at 4:30 pm on 
the bottom of Flagstaff Hill across 
from the Porter Hall entrance.
Football Rankings 
Majors
1. Spirit End Zone Dancers
2. PiKAA
3. Pittsburgh’s Finest
Intermediate
1. PiKA 32
2. Beta Black and Blue
3. Water Boys
Minors
1. TSA Predators
2. DUI
3. MBA 03
4. Bri’s Hungarian Army
5. Sig Ep A
Women
1. FTH
2. SPIRIT A
3. Hoopers
If you have any questions, call the 
IM Office atx8-2214. Remember, all 
email rosters must be received 24 
hours prior to the due date.
Sports
I October 2001 THE TARTAN Page Ais>
Columnist predicts new NHL season
Icy Chips
by Balaji Sarpeshkar
Well, it’s that time of year again. 
After a long (well, not really, but 
who’s keeping track?) layoff, hock­
ey season starts again this 
Wednesday. And once again, the 
Colorado Avalanche are the mar­
quee attraction on opening night.
Of course, this year’s opener 
should prove to be more interesting 
than last year’s matchup against 
the Dallas Stars. This time around, 
the Avs are not only coming off a 
recent Stanley Cup championship, 
but they’re also facing a healthy 
Mario Lemieux and the Pittsburgh 
Penguins. If nothing else, the game 
promises to be an offensive thriller, 
what with the talent each side pos­
sesses.
Of course, there are still 28 other 
teams to consider. And after this 
summer’s trading frenzy, we’re 
probably due for a very entertain­
ing season. When even the pathetic 
New York Islanders can elevate 
themselves to being playoff con­
tenders through personnel moves, 
anything is possible.
In that light, I’d like to go over my 
major predictions for the upcoming 
season. None of them are guaran­
teed successes, but what kind of 
season preview wouldn’t have 
some kind of preseason guessing?
Eastern Conference —
Northeast Division
This division looks to be only 
marginally more interesting this 
season than last. A likely scenario 
involves Ottawa dominating during 
the regular season, then quickly 
fading away in the playoffs. 
However, if Toronto’s acquisition of 
Alexander Mogilny can bolster 
their normally one-dimensional 
offense (read: Mats Sundin), they 
should challenge the Senators for 
the division crown.
The most interesting thing about 
this division is the departure of 
Senators captain Alexei Yashin and 
former Sabres captain Mike Peca to 
the same team: the Islanders. In all 
likelihood, this shift will eliminate 
the Sabres from the playoffs, and 
make life even more difficult for 
the Sens.
Southeast Division
In the affectionately termed 
“Southleast” Division, things are 
much simpler. The Capitals will 
own this division. They have for 
two years running, and that was 
without having Jaromir Jagr 
around to bully around the opposi­
tion. Clearly one of the most gifted 
offensive players in the game, Jagr 
will cement the Caps’ stranglehold 
of this sad division.
Also, Carolina’s pickup of free 
agent goalie Tom Barrasso, while 
on the surface a poor decision, will 
provide some much needed rest to
Arturs “Like Wall” Irbe. Look for 
the Hurricanes to snatch up the last 
playoff spot.
Atlantic Division
I’ll say it now to get it out of the 
way: the Eastern Conference
champ is coming out of this divi­
sion. The New Jersey Devils have 
only lost right winger Alex Mogilny, 
and so will probably play a team 
remarkably similar to last year’s, 
much to everybody else’s detri­
ment.
However, the Philadelphia Flyers 
have also made drastic changes in 
their roster over the summer,\ and
— though it pains me to say it — 
they are more than capable of chal­
lenging the Devils’ ironclad domi­
nance. After acquiring center 
Jeremy Roenick from Phoenix and 
unloading Eric Lindros on the hap­
less Rangers, the Flyers have put 
themselves in a position to unseat 
the reigning Devils — if goalie 
Roman Cechmanek stays on top of 
his game.
The Pens, even without Jagr, are 
still a virtual lock to make the play­
offs. With offensive stars like 
Lemieux and Alexei Kovalev, the 
Pens don’t have to worry about 
scoring. However, phenom goalie 
Johan Hedberg can only do so 
much — and with the departure of 
Bob Boughner, the Pens’ defense 
needs some considerable work if 
See PICKS, page All
Media bias 
bad for 
Redskins
120 Yards
by RJ SikdarDIPLO-DOORMATS
Defense steamrolls Franklin and Marshall in fourth straight win
There are some things that we just know about the mass media 
when it comes to professional 
sports. They like Michael Jordan; they dislike Dennis Rodman. They love the San Francisco 49ers; they 
detest the Dallas Cowboys. This bias has again reared its ugly head 
in the DC area this weekend. The 
Washington Redskins are 0-2, have 
scored three points, and have gen­erally played like an XFL team.
Jeff George was good enough to start for the Redskins on Monday 
night against the Packers, and yet 
two days later he is not even good 
enough to make the team, making Tony Banks the starter. George’s 
replacement on the roster? The 
incomparable Kent Graham, who 
cost the Steelers a loss last year by 
taking a sack against the Browns with a three-point deficit and just 
seconds on the clock.
However, it is the media reaction 
that has turned this fiasco into a debacle. Their blatant prejudices 
seem to suggest that the idea of 
journalistic integrity has recently 
lost its luster. What follows is a 
review of the current situation in Washington and how it became 
that way.
In 1994, Norv Turner followed Jimmy Johnson out the door of the 
two-time defending Super Bowl 
champion Dallas Cowboys, eventu­ally signing on as head coach of the 
Washington Redskins.Seven years later, Turner was job­
less, with a career 49-59-1 record, 
and his Redskins made the playoffs 
just once. His tenure was the 
longest in Washington history for a 
coach with a career losing record.What went wrong? For starters, 
despite having a brilliant offensive 
mind, his Redskins were among the top offensive teams in the league 
just once, in 1999. However, even 
then, there were warning signs. In 
their first seven games, the 
Redskins averaged 34.6 points. Over their next 11 games including 
the playoffs, they averaged a fairly 
mediocre 21.9 points, never top­
ping 28 points.Second, despite being a “good 
guy” coach and a media darling, 
Turner simply did not have control 
of his team. Upon Turner’s firing in 
2000, guard Keith Sims said in the 
Washington Post that “Norv did not 
threaten players; some guys took 
advantage of him.” Guard Tre 
Johnson said of new coach Terry Robiske, “I don’t think he's going to 
allow certain things.” Clearly, this was a divided team that needed its 
coach as a leader, not a friend.
See REDSKINS, page All
Women lose first game in tough conference matchup
by Christopher Chung
Special Projects Manager
The women’s soccer team had its 
undefeated season taken away on 
Saturday in frustrating fashion by 
the University of Chicago Maroons. 
The Tartans were blindsided by the 
Maroons’ opening intensity, and 
gave up two quick goals in the first 
ten minutes — goals which Tartan head coach Heather Kendra 
described as “pretty much freebies 
...from point-blank inside the box.” Those two goals were all 
Chicago needed for the victory, 
despite being outplayed by 
Carnegie Mellon for the remaining 
80 minutes of the contest.
“They came out with a lot of
intensity and we weren’t ready for 
it,” said Kendra. “We were back on 
our heels from the very first whis­
tle, and it took us ten minutes to 
regain our composure.”
“The first ten minutes we had a 
lot of defensive errors,” said Katie 
Snell, senior defender and captain. 
“I don’t think we were ready for the 
game.”
According to Kendra, the 
Tartans ended up with more scor­
ing chances than the Maroons, 
who are ranked 18th in the coun­
try — sophomore goalkeeper Megan Monroe touched the ball a 
mere two times in the second half. 
But the Tartans just couldn’t make 
up for the first ten minutes of slop­
piness. Minus those ten minutes, 
the Tartans would have come away
with a 1-0 victory instead.
“I was pretty happy with the way 
we played for 80 minutes. It was 
just that first 10 that was really ter­
rible,” said Kendra. “We recovered 
well, just not soon enough.”
The women came back strong 
after regaining their composure. 
Coming downfield, sophomore 
midfielder Merry McConnochie 
fed a pass to junior midfielder 
Melissa McMorrow.
McMorrow whipped a lefty shot 
past the Chicago keeper from 25 
yards out, giving the Tartans their lone goal.
The coach and players have 
nothing much to say about the 
opening minutes, except that they 
just played poorly. “Every team has 
bad days,” said Snell.
It was a difficult loss to take not 
just because of the opening, but 
also because of the Tartans’ past 
record against Chicago.
“I don’t believe we’ve ever beat­
en Chicago,” said Kendra. “That 
sort of adds to the frustration 
because we definitely could have.” 
The Tartans’ assignment now is 
to recover and prepare for their 
next game, which will be at home 
against UAA rival Brandeis this Friday at 8 pm.
Two days later, on the following 
Sunday, the Tartans face visiting 
University of Rochester at 1:30 in the afternoon.
“It’s going to be a big weekend ... We’re looking to get things started 
on the right foot with Brandeis,” 
said Kendra, who insists that the
team concentrate on one game at a 
time.
“She’s not letting us believe that 
any of our opponents are easy to 
• beat,” said Snell.
The Tartans lost badly to 
Brandeis last year, and the players 
want to make up for that.
“I think we’re really going to be 
looking for revenge for last year,” 
said Snell. “... We were really capa­
ble of winning that game.”
The Tartans’ record at this point 
last year was 3-5, and it is now 
6-1-1 (0-1-1 in the UAA). They 
have high expectations of them­
selves, and they intend to continue 
improving their performances.
“We’re having a different kind of 
season this year,” Snell said. A win 
this Friday would prove it for sure.
by Preston Treichel
Staffwriter
Last Saturday, the Tartans trav­
eled to Lancaster, PA to take on the 
Diplomats of Franklin and Marshall. CMU was able to pull 
things together and come out with 
a breezy 37-14 win.CMU took control right from the 
beginning and kept things rolling 
for the rest of the game. The 
Franklin and Marshall mistakes didn’t start to snowball until mid­
way through the first quarter, and 
when they did, CMU was able to 
capitalize.The first of six Diplomat 
turnovers occurred when sopho­more Phil Clingman stripped the 
ball from tailback Paul Fix. 
Clingman returned the ball 33 
yards to the Franklin and Marshall one yard line, where junior Adam 
Urbanczyk punched it in for the 
first touchdown. Sophomore 
Michael Palmer’s extra point put 
the Tartans up 7-0.
“The turnovers were definitely 
key to the win,” said head coach 
Rich Lackner. “We did a good job 
of taking advantage of them.”
After a field goal by Palmer to close out the first quarter, Fix 
would fumble again on the follow­
ing kickoff, this time on the 
Franklin and Marshall 19 yard line. The Tartans recovered and Urbanczyk eventually marched 
into the end zone following a nice 
14 yard run by junior Andrew 
Garrod.The score would remain 17-0 
until the end of the first half.
See DIPLOMATS, page AllTartan running back Chris Kay never has to face the Diplomat defense as he heads for the end zone. Kay capped off the scoring in Saturday’s blowout win.

---------------------------------------------------

Arts\ Living
I October 2001 THE TARTAN Section B
by Emma Rehm
Copy Co-Manager
Getting permission to hold an 
event just two days before it’s scheduled to happen is not usu­
ally the best way to gather a 
crowd. On September 25, howev­er, over a hundred people occu­
pied McConomy Auditorium for 
a “Zfilms” screening of a docu­
mentary on American involve­ment in Iraq, with only two days 
prior notice.
Zfilms, recently organized by 
senior math major Anthony D’Auria, aims to educate students 
via “Cinematic Political 
Stimulus.” The first movie shown by Zfilms was John Pilger’s 2000 
documentary Paying the Price: 
Killing the Children of Iraq. Future films include The Panama 
Deception, The School of the 
Americas, and a repeat screening 
of Paying the Price.
John Pilger, a British photo­
journalist who was very involved 
in documenting US, UN, and 
British involvement in the Gulf 
War, titled the documentary in reference to a Madeline Albright 
quote (which, in fact, a student at 
a Pitt peace rally two weeks ago 
used in his speech). Regarding 
the efforts and risks involved in
trying to get to Saddam Hussein - whether half a million Iraqi chil­
dren dying was a price worth 
paying — Albright said, “We think the price is worth it.”
The film begins with some basic history and background 
leading up to the last ten years of 
UN-imposed sanctions on Iraq, followed by a lot of shocking sta­
tistics. The sanctions have been 
responsible for more deaths than both bombs on Japan. The child 
mortality rate for children under 
the age of five is 4,000 deaths per month.
Disease has overrun the coun­
try; cancer can’t be treated 
because the proper drugs aren’t 
available. Hospitals don’t have common painkillers. Water and sewage treatment plants have 
been bombed and can’t be fixed 
because replacement parts are 
unavailable. Food is hard to come by, and people (even those in the 
medical profession are affected) 
sell their books in street markets so they can buy food.
The reason for this inhumanity 
against a population, according to 
Pilger, is the “humanitarianism” of the UN, US, and Britain, which are 
trying to save the world from 
Saddam Hussein and his “weapons 
of mass destruction.” Pilger’s point­
ed message is that all of Iraq’s bio­
logical, chemical, and nuclear 
weapons have been destroyed or dismantled by UN weapons inspec­
tors or by Iraq, in compliance with UN demands.
Amid the exceptionally graphic images of sick and dying children 
comes a message: the United 
States is not helping anything. Chief UN weapons inspector 
(from 1991-1998) Scott Ritter 
says that the threat once posed by Iraq is just not there anymore, it is “zero, none.”
And yet the UN-imposed sanc­
tions remain, where if they were 
removed — if the general despair in Iraq were recognized -— many 
of the deaths could be avoided. 
As it stands, Iraq’s major trade is 
oil, but not for money, for food. Even vaccines against yellow 
fever and diphtheria have been 
blocked for import by the sanc­
tions, because of their potential 
to be used in “weapons of mass destruction.”
Three major UN figures have resigned as a direct result of the 
harm done by the sanctions. 
Dennis Halliday (former UN humanitarian coordinator) 
resigned in 1998, because the 
sanctions were “destroying a 
whole society,” and his successor, 
Hans von Sponeck, resigned just 
See IRAQ, page B3
Godot demonstrates failure of communication, isolation
Pilger shows Gulf War in new, graphic perspective
The play finishes with Vladimir’s acquiescence to 
Estragon’s pestering that they should give up on wait­
ing for Godot and leave the meeting place to explore the world.
The characters do not discuss the failure of com­munication that is present amongst humans today, 
but instead represents this failure on stage. As Rollo 
May put it in his book The Courage to Create, “We 
see on the stage, in Beckett’s play, the lone, bare 
tree, symbolic of the lone, bare relationship the two 
men have as they wait together for a Godot who 
never appears; and it elicits from us a similar sense 
of the alienation that we and multitudes of others 
experience. The fact that most people have no clear 
awareness of their alienation only makes this con­
dition more powerful.”
Although the play at times has the coherence of an avant guard poetry reading, Beckett obviously 
intended to create the mood of bizarreness. It may 
not be everyone’s cup of tea, but due to the play’s 
continuous comedy and representation of reality, 
the play probably appeals to a surprisingly wide 
audience. One of the play’s interesting features is 
that the character’s lines towards their own unful- 
filling lives sometimes resemble the audience’s 
feelings towards the play. Waiting for Godot, which 
has definite allusions to the phrase, “waiting for 
God,” draws the audience into the play and chal­
lenges every viewer to relate the character’s 
philosophies and actions to their own lives.
See GODOT, page B2 
wmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmsimik
John Davin/Production Manager
The Graduate One-Acts, directed by S. Caden Hethorn and Adam Houghton, took place in the Wells 
Studio Theater in the Purnell Center for the Arts last Wednesday, Thursday, and Friday. The perfor­
mances were the start of an exciting season of theater by the School of Drama.
by Nina Durai
Staffwriter
Last Friday afternoon, Sauce, a local band, performed on the Cut as part of a celebration for Hispanic 
Heritage month. Also at that time, Kappa Kappa Gamma and Kappa Delta Rho’s Quarter Mile of 
Quarters was happening. The fundraiser brought in over $5,000 for the Children’s Hospital.
Samuel Beckett’s Waiting for Godot is famously regarded as “a play in which nothing happens twice.” 
The University of Pittsburgh’s Department of Theatre 
Arts started performances of this production on 
Wednesday, September 19 and will continue showing 
performances almost every night through Sunday, 
October 7. Almost all who have witnessed the play call 
it strange and existential; nevertheless the play defi­
nitely has its appeal.
The play begins with the two main characters, 
Vladimir and Estragon, engaging in comical but almost 
nonsensical exchanges. The audience wrestles with 
curiosity and frustration as they slowly learn about the 
character’s lives and situations. The more rational 
Vladimir continuously reminds his neurotic old com­
panion, Estragon, about their promise to wait for 
“Godot” despite the bleakness and boredom of the 
meeting place. The only plot the story has comes from 
the stream of “diversions” that Vladimir and Estragon 
encounter during their tedious wait. A wealthy and 
arrogant man, Pozzo, passes by with his maltreated 
carrier slave, Lucky. Pozzo’s dialogues with Vladimir 
and Estragon provide much of the philosophical sub­
stance of the play. In the second act, Vladimir and 
Estragon wait for the mysterious Godot for another 
entire day, while variations of the “diversions” 
that occupied their time on the first day happen again.
300 students from Pitt, Chatam, Duquesne, and CMU gathered in an anti-war demonstration last 
Friday at the Cathedral of Learning in Oakland.
Theater community hit hard times in face of WTC disaster
by Beth Powell
Arts & Living Editor
In the face of the World Trade Center tragedy, which hit much 
too close to home, the Broadway 
theater community has respond­
ed with an outpouring of sup­
port for the victims and support 
for their own.
First came cancellations, 
rescheduling, and refunds. All 
Broadway and almost all Off- 
Broadway shows were cancelled on 
September 11 and 12. With Manhattan closed south of 14th 
Street, which includes the Off-
Broadway theater community in 
Greenwich Village, and travel 
restricted after subway travel was 
interrupted and most bridges and 
tunnels were closed, Broadway was shutdown for the first time since a 
blizzard in January 1996. All 
Broadway shows were reopened on 
September 13 after NY Mayor 
Rudolph Giuliani requested that 
the shows get back up as soon as 
possible. By September 15, most 
Off-Broadway theaters were lit 
again, with the exception of those 
in the “no access” zone in New York 
City. Memorials were varied as the 
shows went on again, dedicated to 
the victims of the terrorist attacks,
and included, dimming theater 
lights at curtain times, giving cur­
tain speeches, observing moments 
of silence, and singing “God Bless 
America” by Irving Berlin, which 
incidentally was originally written 
for Yip Yip Taphank, a World War I 
Broadway revue. Steve Blanchard 
(Beauty and the Beast), Tony 
Freeman (Lion King), and Adam 
Pascal (Aida), stars of the three 
Disney shows currently running on 
Broadway, delivered the following 
speech to their audiences after their respective performances: 
“Ladies and gentleman, tradi­tionally the theater has been a See BROADWAY, page B3
John Whiteman/Photo Staff

---------------------------------------------------

B2 THE TARTAN • OCTOBER 1, 2001Shaham takes stage in concert dedicated to Isaac Stern; PSO premieres work of Rodion Shchedrin
by Aseem Gupta
Co-Editor-in-Chief 
& Srinivas Pulleia
Staffwriter
After violin superstar Anne- Sophie Mutter cancelled her per­
formance with the Pittsburgh 
Symphony Orchestra this past weekend, ticket-holders were left 
scratching their heads. What could have ended up being a very mediocre concert turned out to be 
one of the great symphony concerts 
that the orchestra has become rec­
ognized for in recent years. In a last minute switch, violinist Gil 
Shaham took to the stage in a con­
cert dedicated to the late Isaac Stern, who passed away recently. 
Shaham performed Beethoven’s 
Concerto for Violin and Orchestra in 
D major, and the Pittsburgh 
Symphony Orchestra played 
Rodion Shchedrin’s Two Tangos by Albéniz and premiered Shcedrin’s 
Lolita-Serenade.Opening with Lolita-Serenade, a 
piece that was originally scheduled 
to debut on the opening weekend, the PSO gleamed under the direc­
tion of Mariss Jansons. While the piece itself left something to be 
desired — it was perhaps a little rough for the story it was supposed 
to be based on — there were 
moments that were extraordinary. 
The opening phrases, for one, were
played with delicate precision, and 
were filled with great promise for what was to follow. All-in-all the 
piece was a treasure trove of musi­
cal jewels for those who enjoy con­
temporary music.After the audience applauded 
Shchedrin and his premiere, the 
PSO launched into Shchedrin’s 
Two Tangos by Albeniz. The piece was much more upbeat and 
lively than the Lolita-Serenade, and the audience seemed to 
thoroughly enjoy the piece based on original works composed for 
the piano. Although slightly 
slower than the typical tango, the PSO played the pieces splen­
didly, and the audience clearly enjoyed the light-hearted piece 
before the intermission.After the intermission, the 
orchestra joined American-born 
violinist Gil Shaham in playing 
Beethoven’s Violin Concerto in D 
major. In what was undoubtedly 
the highlight of the evening, 
Shaham thrilled the audience with 
a flawless performance of this forty-two minute piece.
In the first movement, 
Shaham’s playing was filled with 
expressiveness and spontaneity. 
His careful phrasing and techni­
cal precision were evident even 
in the most demanding passages of the movement. Shaham exe­
cuted the cadenza, a virtuoso passage filled with arpeggios and
double-stops, with remarkable 
grace and poise.The more lyrical second move­
ment gave Shaham the chance to display various colors and dynam­
ics in his playing. The serene mood of the movement called at times for subido piano dynamics and at other times for fortissimo. Shaham 
handled the transitions with ease, however, and played with a pure, 
singing tone throughout.In the final movement, Shaham showed remarkable control over 
tone as he played the spirited 
theme with a rich, full sound first on the G string, then more delicate­
ly two octaves above. The tri­umphant conclusion of the move­
ment brought the audience to its 
feet in a standing ovation that last­
ed several curtain calls.After the fifth bow, Shaham 
offered an encore piece. He chose 
to play a Bach solo piece. His del­
icate, yet soulful rendition of this work prompted two further cur­
tain calls.The evening’s performance was a resounding success. The 
Pittburgh Symphony Orchestra will return the weekend of 
October 12 to present the world 
premiere of James Oliverio’s The 
Messenger, along with works by 
Sibelius and Grieg.
For more information call (412)
392-4900 or visit http://www.pitts-
burghsymphony.org. j^e Pittsburgh Symphony Orchestra premiered a new work, Lolita-Serenade, by Rodion Shchedrin last weekend.
Visiting writer Banner reveals 
personal rituals of his writing
by Alissa Green
Staffwriter
“It was something about how you can never have what you 
want, even if you have what you 
want,” read Keith Banner with 
just the slightest of a southern 
twang. The second of eight visit­
ing writers coming to Carnegie 
Mellon this year, his story, “Spider 
in the Snow,” centers around a middle-aged man grappling with his sense of duty to his family as 
well as several internal conflicts. 
Divorced with a live-in girlfriend, 
two adolescent daughters, and a 
clingy ex-wife, the narrator fre­
quently finds himself caught 
between outside obligations and 
personal desires. After sharing 
details about his divorce he exam­
ines his relationship with his wife 
almost as an after thought, saying 
“I never wanted to be responsible 
for anyone’s loneliness.” Simple 
lines like that engaged listeners 
and encouraged them to delve 
deeper into Banner’s delicate world of family.
Banner, currently a social 
worker for people with disabili­
ties and a part-time professor at 
Miami University in Ohio, has
recently been published in the 
The Kenyon Review, Washington 
Square, and has work forthcom­
ing in Witness Magazine. He has 
his own style, his own love affair with words, and his own way to 
coax them out of hiding. Upon 
describing his own personal ritu­
als, “I vaccum and clean the 
house every time before I write. 
It needs to be neat.”
However, after all of. the exter­
nal preparation is done, there is still additional work to do, such as developing characters. “People 
are always the first thing. If you 
don’t have characters down, 
you’re stuck. You want to go out­
side yourself. I want to write 
about people different than me, 
but at the same time, people who have a core of me in them.”
Then, after the characters are 
fully fleshed out and alive, 
Banner begins to ponder the plot 
line of this story, emphasizing 
“You need to see the ending at 
the very beginning. I want to 
write towards it so the reader can 
go with me.” And the reader 
does — all the way to the end 
where the narrator, after remi­niscing about a bathroom quick­
ie, calmly states, “It’s not love I 
know, but it’s something.”
Other writers visiting this year 
at CMU include noted author 
Nicholas Christopher who is com­
ing November 1 and is a faculty 
member at Columbia University; 
Christopher has written four nov­
els and seven books of poetry. 
Poet Lisa Chavez is coming 
November 8 with her second book of poetry in tow. Meanwhile film­
maker Jackie Ochs is coming 
November 30, and her film Agent 
Orange received many accolades including a Cerifícate of Achievement from the Academy 
of Motion Pictures Arts and 
Sciences. Chuck Kindler speaks 
February 19, as does Mary Ruefle 
on February 28, and Richard 
Grossman on March 18.
All of the events take place at 8 
pm in the Adamson Wing in Baker 
Hall, except for Jackie Ochs whose 
discussion will take place at 4:30 
pm. These events, along with the 
events sponsored by the University 
of Pittsburgh, are a great way to 
branch out and experience up and 
coming art and writing. As an 
observant listener at Keith Banner’s 
reading said, “Writing’s like a drug. 
You’re not who you are anymore. 
You’re outside of yourself, and because of that, you learn more 
about yourself.”
GODOT, from page B1 The set resembled an entirely 
lava colored sewage dump with one 
copper sculpted tree in the center 
of the stage. It helped further the 
play’s theme and mood by resem­
bling hell, a pool of industrial 
sewage, and even the inside of 
the human brain. Physically, the 
play is set somewhere in France 
at some time during the first half 
of the nineteenth century, but 
the play seems to happen in a
and beyond time.
Few if any could complain about 
the play’s acting. Larry John 
Meyers and Doug Mertz, rightful­
ly called two of Pittsburgh’s per­
formers of the year by the 
Pittsburgh Post Gazette, played 
Vladimir and Pozzo. Alex 
Coleman and Matthew Gaydos 
played Estragon and Lucky. Even 
though the production is a 
University project, the actors gave 
the impression of being the actual
The University of Pittsburgh’s 
Department of Theatre Arts did 
an impressive job with Samuel 
Beckett’s famed play, Waiting for 
Godot. And though it may seem 
like a play in which nothing hap­
pens, it provides a stirring diver­
sion for others to pass the time 
and may be a little unsettling as 
you realize that your failure to 
communicate with others unwill­
ingness to open yourself up to 
others is represented onstage for
real place outside of the Earth age of the characters they played. all to see.Publicizing versus propagandizing 
considered in Pilger documentary
IRAQ, from page B1last year because he could “no longer tolerate the 
suffering caused by sanctions.” And just two days after his resignation, the head of the UN food pro­
gram in Iraq resigned as well.
The shocking facts of US and UN involvement in 
Iraq — the war, sanctions, 10 years of quiet killing — 
are illustrated by horrific shots of crying mothers 
holding their dying, diseased children. To a certain degree, it’s necessary to show the violence, horror, 
and emotional despair because if it isn’t publicized 
and made visible, it won’t be believed. The problem, 
though, is where to draw the line between publiciz­
ing and propagandizing: At what point is it helpful to 
show graphic violence, and at what point is it too much and unnecessary?
The documentary falls victim to the same trap of sensationalizing and over-dramatizing a situation
that is under-exposed by mass media. Rather than 
just explaining what the media omits or glosses 
over, Pilger uses the traditional tactic of emotional 
manipulation. The shocking footage and video stills 
of dying people, particularly children, will 
inevitably cause any humane individual to cringe, 
regardless of political sympathies. But the coverage in Paying the Price raises more questions than just 
the issue of media biases: Is the graphic nature of 
the film necessary? Do we need to see an hour of 
horrifying footage of death and disease to believe it? Can the information be conveyed effectively 
without this bias of a different sort?
But regardless of the journalistic approach, 
Paying the Price paints a much clearer picture of the 
other side of America’s reaction to Iraq and the Gulf War, to Saddam Hussein, and to the notion of 
humanitarianism.
The University of Pittsburgh’s Repertory Theatre opened its 2001-2002 season on September 19 with Samuel 
Beckett’s Waiting for Godot. The show runs though October 7 in the Henry Heymann Theatre.University of Pittsburgh presents 
Beckett’s classic Waiting for Godot
The No Parking Players, an improv comedy troupe, performed their show “No Parking and 
Cheese” at the Morewood Underground last Friday night.
i

---------------------------------------------------

THE TARTAN « OCTOBÈR 1, 200 f
Broadway anticipates rebound 
as New York returns to normal
BROADWAY, from page B1 
place where people could go to escape the trials and tribulations of daily life. A place where we could 
forget our problems, at least for a few hours. We hope that tonight, 
we have been able, in some small way, to accomplish this for you. 
However, we believe that the tragic 
events of Tuesday, September 11 cannot be easily forgotten and per­
haps should never be. Therefore, to honor the victims and their fami­
lies, we ask you to join us in a moment of silence.”Then came the realization that 
the disaster would surely bring an economic blow to the theater com­
munity. In response, many of the 
industries’ leaders organized a 
Broadway Response Committee. Opening nights of various shows, 
including Stephen Sondheim’s revival of Assasin, were postponed, 
some indefinitely. Others cancelled 
performances and planned to accommodate ticket holders at 
later performance dates. The total 
financial loss was difficult to esti­
mate. The biggest concern was, and remains to be, what the long-term 
effects would be on tourism and 
theatergoing.A week after the disaster, seven 
Broadway and Off-Broadway 
shows announced they would close 
on September 23. This came after a 
60 percent decrease in total income 
from the previous week, as report­ed by the League of American 
Theatres and Producers. Producers
and theatrical unions started meet­ing to devise a plan that would keep 
more shows from closing, but there was general agreement that not all 
shows could be helped.Despite the rocky financial times 
that the theatre community was and is facing, numerous Broadway and Off-Broadway artists orga­
nized performances around the city 
as fundraisers for the victims of the attacks and their families.
On September 20, it was announced that the producers 
and labor unions of Phantom of 
the Opera, Les Miserables, Rent, 
Chicago, and Tfie Full Monty had agreed to a 25 percent pay cut for 
the following four weeks. It would 
affect actors, playwrights, direc­
tors, choreographers, stagehands, musicians, and other theater per­
sonnel involved with these shows. 
The theatre community could not get advanced ticket sales moving 
again, but Kevin McCullom, Rent 
producer, said, “Once people start 
to come back to Broadway, our shows will again flourish. We’re 
willing to lose a significant 
amount of money while we wait 
for tourists to come back.” 
Representatives from these five 
shows approached Broadway’s 
labor union with the pay cut pro­posal. Many major shows were not 
included because they were not 
part of this group, but, according 
to Alan Eisenberg of the Actors’ 
Equity Association, others will not 
be turned away if they approach
the labor union searching for financial relief. Other attempts to 
cut costs in order to save the the­
ater community, included theater owners of Broadway houses waiv­
ing rent and allowing producers 
to not incur penalty charges for closings as long as there was 48 
hours notice (previously, closings had to be announced several days 
beforehand to avoid costs). Ticket prices were cut, with a portion of 
the discounted price going to charity, in an effort to encourage 
people to come to the theater.To date, the Broadway and Off- 
Broadway communities are still try­ing to deal with the financial diffi­
culties brought on by the World 
Trade Center tragedy. More pay cuts and temporary lay offs may be nec­essary. The September 23 weekend 
did see a rebound in ticket sales for a 
variety of reasons including the $5 
donation from all ticket sales to the 
Twin Towers Fund, New Yorkers get­
ting over the initial, and Mayor Giuliani’s request for people to “see 
a show.” Kiss Me Kate was one show 
that benefited from a sold-out per­
formance at the September 23 mati­
nee. The cast and crew agreed to a 25 percent pay cut with an addition­
al 25 percent of their salaries going 
to buy tickets for relief workers.
Despite these difficulties the the­
ater community is committed to 
helping the victims and their fami­
lies. This is done by donating a por­
tion of ticket sales to charities and organizing benefits.
¦¦m-
:M/mm
Behnam Farahpour/Photo Co-Editor
Performance art took on an interesting twist in the mens’ bathroom in the University Center last 
Wednesday. Watch for the next one in the womens’ bathroom this week.
Ént mmm M*. «ini fltMMfe. m m4740 Baum Blvd. *
Mi o\ f5ö"7_Qc;ci=
-Thursday, 11 A.M, -2 A.M. * Friday & Saturday, 11 A.M. - 3 A,M.
i ¦:ï:’¦ i ’ , 1 ^ . ¦ ?'.CCCarneegiMusmuaoif Nt N
Carnegie Almanac
50 years ago, October 2, 1951 — Brad Hunt, a popular local band 
leader, and his orchestra were featured at Carnegie’s first all school dance, 
which was sponsored by the varsity “C” club.
The US Civil Service Commission was offering jobs in all branches of 
engineering with salaries ranging from $3,100 to $10,000.Carnegie Tech’s Coal Research Institute was responsible for the majori­
ty of America’s fundamental research on coal. The director of the labora­
tory, Dr. H. H. Lowry, was leading an investigation into the combustion of pulverized coal.
An intramural sports program for women was introduced with the pur­
pose of giving all girls, regardless of ability, a chance to participate in ath­
letics in an informal, friendly manner.The Pittsburgh Playhouse was set to open its 18th season with The 
Curious Savage by John Patrick.
1951 Evening School graduate in metallurgical engineering, Joseph J. King, received an award from the Lincoln Electric Company’s Arc 
Welding Foundation. He received $165 for a paper he wrote entitled “A 
Study of Autowelding.”
included concerts by Arlo Guthrie and Valdi, a Canadian group; a T.G.I.F. dance every Friday afternoon; and a visit to the Carnegie Music Hall by 
Alger Hiss, who was tried as being a Communist informer in one of the 
most famous trials of the McCarthy era.
CMU’s football team defeated Case Western by a score of 21 to seven to 
remain undefeated in the season.
10 years ago, September 30,1991 — Guy Stever, former president of 
Carnegie Mellon from 1965 to 1972, was one of five recipients of the National Medal of Science, awarded by President Bush. He resigned from 
his position as president in 1972 to become director of the National 
Science Foundation.Dr. Seuss, children’s author, Nobel laureate, and creator of such charac­
ter as Horton, The Cat in the Hat and the Grinch, passed away.
The CMU men’s cross country team competed in a meet hosted by 
Duquesne University. They defeated George Washington University, St. 
Frances, and St. Bonaventure, but had a controversial finish behind 
Duquesne. Four of the top five CMU runner’s finishing places were not 
properly recorded. There were plans to investigate the incident.
The Fifth Year Scholars program was underway with five undergradu­
ates. The program was proposed in 1989 by then Student Body President 
Andy Robitshek.
5 years ago, September 30, 1996 — Plans were in the works to give 
students new ID cards. These would be more durable, include the ABA 
industry-standard magnetic strip, and pictures taken using a DataCard 
computer system.
Pierre Zoelly, a renowned international architect, lectured in Breed 
Hall. He received his master’s degree in architecture from CMU in 1951.
CMU Housing offered a drug-free living area. Eight students were living 
there and all were welcome to hang out when they wanted an environ­
ment that was drug and alcohol-free.
Due to the recent opening of the University Center, which was des­
ignated as a building for student use, Student Activities held a work­
shop to teach students how to plan events and make use of the UC’s resources.
Dr. Kenneth Keeling took over as head of the music department. He was 
previously the Head of Music at the University of Tennessee.
The School of Drama’s season opened in the Kresge Theater with A 
Stephen Sondheim Evening.
One year ago, October 2, 2000 — Dr. Raj Reddy, thè Herbert A. 
Simon University Professor of Computer Science and Robotics, was 
awarded an honorary doctor of science degree at the University of 
Massachusetts. He was one of three computer scientists who received the award.
Carnegie Mellon University was considering signing an agreement 
with Intel Inc. to allow the company to move onto a designated location 
on campus for private use. There was controversy surrounding this 
decision because the primary option would be for Intel to renovate and 
move into part of the UC basement space for five years, but some stu­
dents felt that this conflicted with the UC’s orignal intention of being a place for students.
A power outage in Scaife Hall forced the University to close the build­
ing and cancel classes scheduled to meet in that building.
The Summer Olympics in Sydney, Australia came to a close and the 
world would forever remember the Austrailian cheer, “Aussie, Aussie, Aussie. Oi! Oi! Oi!”
Student Health Services held an immunization program where stu­dents had the opportunity to be immunized against influenza and meningococcal meningitis.
Construction of new offices in Baker Hall was cleared to begin after 
an asbestos problem was discovered and remedied.
Compiled by Beth Powell
¦HMB—
25 years ago, September 28, 1976 — The search for a new dean for 
the Mellon Institute of Science was still going on a year and a half after the 
resignation of Aksel Bothner-by. A third search committee was in the 
process of being formed.
The Board of Trustees of Carnegie Mellon University planned to discuss 
building a new dorm, Morewood, next to the existing Morewood E-Tower, 
with nine stories and a capacity of 200.
Rob Heath took over as the new Director of Housing. His previous expe­
rience with CMU included being a student at GSIA and being the Assistant 
Director of Budget Services.
Dr. David T. Tuma, Associate Professor of Electrical Engineering, was 
presented the traditional Ryan Award for Meritous Teaching for “unusual 
devotion and effectiveness in teaching undergraduate students.”The Activities Board had numerous events scheduled for the year. They

---------------------------------------------------

For more information contact Student Activities at 268-8704 
or on the web at www.cmu.edu/enrollment/sa/internationalfestival
Saturday, October 6,2001
1130 am-5^)0 pm - Art Gallery Showing: Sehou/lbou University Center Art Gallery
1130am-230pm - Study Abroad Fair. University Cut
If you are interested in studying abroad, stop by and pick up information and explore your 
many options.
12:00 pm - Martha Rial, Pitt Post Gazette: University Center Alumni lounge
Martha Rial, photographer for the Pittsburgh Post-Gazette, offers a collection of photographs 
entitled: Trek of Tears/ followed by a presentation and discussion about her personal 
experiences in Africa. A reception in the University Center Alumni lounge will follow the 
presentation.
12:00 pm - Marketplace: University Cut Tent
Stop by and pick up free samples of a wide array of African tastes and treats from local food 
venders. Also shop at the African Marketplace, which features local artisans and their creations.
12:30 am-130 pm - Workshop: Mask Making Danforth lounge, University Center
Lubangi Muniania will teach you how to create your very own mask to take away from the 
Festival.
(Limited to the first 15 participants)
1.130pm - Personal Journey: Dr. Alex London Wright Room,University Center
Or. Alex London is an Assistant Professor in Philosophy, a member of the Center for the 
Advancement of Applied Ethics at Carnegie Mellon University and an affiliated faculty member 
with the Center for Bioethics and Health law at the University of Pittsburgh. And will speak on 
the'Ethical Issues in the Fight Against AIDS in Africa.'
1:00pm - Uimamba Documentary & Discussion McKenna Room: University Center
Presented by Lubangi Muniania, come and learn the history and facts behind lumamba while 
enjoying some tasty treats.
2.00 pm - Personal Journey: lewis Roberts Peter Room, University Center
Lewis Roberts will present research and information on modern day theory on the Apartheid.
230 pm - Personal Journey: Kristin Gilmore Wright Room, University Center
Kristin Gilmore, a senior in Humanities & Sotial Sciences with a double major in English and 
International Relations, offers information about breaking down the stereotypes of Sub- 
Saharan Africa
Thursday, October 4,2001
1130am-500pm - Art Gallery Showing: Sehou/lbou University Center Art Gallery
1130am- 130pm - Art Gallery Opening: University Center Art Gallery/Alumni Gallery
Meet and mingle with the artists Sehou and Ibou and enjoy the music of the African 
Drummers.
430pm * University Lecture Series: Ernest Green Adamson Wing, Baker Hall
Ernest Green currently serves as the Managing Director of Public Finance for Lehman Brothers' 
Washington, D.C. and has served as the Assistant Secretary of Labor under President Carter a nd 
the Chairman of the African Development Foundation under President Ginton.
•Co-sponsored by BGSO, AB Political Speakers and ALCOA.
Friday, October 5,2001
1130 am-5:00 pm - Art Gallery Showing: University Center Art Gal lery 
Sehou/lbou
12:00 pm - Marketplace: University Cut Tent
Stop by and pick up free samples of a wide array of African tastes and treats from local food 
venders. Also shop at the African Marketplace, which features local crafts men and women and 
their creations.
1230 pm - Pittsburgh Drummers: University Cut Tent 
1:00pm * Temujin the Storyteller: University Cut Tent
0 100 pm - Personal Journey: Linda Robinson Wright Room, University Center
Linda Robinson, a graduate student in Library and Information Sdence at the University of 
Hi Pittsburgh, will share her story and information after serving in the Peace Corps from 1995* 
™ 1997 in Senegal, West Africa. Linda shares her pictures and other information at the following
link: http://www.pitt.eduHir2MYelcome.html
130pm*330pm - Face Painting by Adeline Kombo: University CutTent
130 pm - Personal Journey: Melanie Harris Peter Room, University Center
200 pm - Sate African Drum & Dance Ensemble University: CutTent
200pm * Personal Journey: Kristin Gilmore Wright Room, University Center
Kristin Gilmore, a senior in Humanities & Soaal Sciences with a double major in English and 
Internationa! Relations, offers information about her experiences after spending a year at the 
University of Natal, Pietermaritzburg in KwaZulu Natal, South Africa and traveling through 
South Africa, Swaziland, Namibia, Zimbabwe, Zambia, Malawi,Tanzania, and Kenya in addition 
to doing independent research.
230 pm * Personal Journey: Jocelyn Malik Peter Room, University Center
Jocelyn Malik, a ftet year Art Management graduate student in the Heinz School. Jocelyn was a 
volunteer in Kenya for 5 months in an orphanage for HIV positive children. Jocelyn will be 
sharing her experiences at that orphanage as well as Information about the issue of AIDS in 
Sub-Saharan Africa
230 pm - Workshop: African Dance University Cut Tent
Learn the various styles and techniques of African dance led by Master Dancer Youssoupha La
300 pm - Student Panel: Ranges I & II,University Center
A panel of Carnegie Mellon students offer different perspectives on their experiences in Africa 
and with African culture.
300 pm -430 pm - Workshop: Jewelry Making Marketplace, University Cut Tent
Learn the history and traditions behind African jewelry as you create your own piece to take 
home.
300 pm -400 pm - Workshop: Mask Making Danforth Lounge, University Center
Lubangi Muniania will teach you how to create your very own mask to take away from the 
Festival.
(Limited to the first 15 participants)
330 pm-430 pm - SPIRIT Fashion Show w/Dee's Fashion: University Cut Tent
Members of the Carnegie Mellon University organization SPIRIT model clothing designed and 
created by Dee's Fashions of Pittsburgh, showcasing traditional and contemporary African 
dotting.
7:00pm - Toby FoyehS Orchestra Africa: University CutTent
Toby Foyeh & Orchestra Africans music is a melting pot created out of a unique fusion of 
traditional Nigerian Yoruba music including: Highlife, Afrobeat, folklore with jazz; rock, pop and 
Latin music while absorbing various western elements.
300pm - Personal Journey: Aria Thomases Wright Room, University Center 
Aria Thomases will speak of her experiences while touring various areas of Africa.
300 pm - Personal Journey: Heidi Halstead McKenna Room, University Center
Heidi Halstead will present "South Africa - a Nation of Contrasts," a discussion of the many
contrasts in people, attitudes, landscapes in South Africa.
330 pm - Poetry Reading by Rob Penny: University CutTent
330 pm - Student Panel: Danforth Lounge, University Center
A panel of Carnegie Mellon students offer different perspectives on their experiences in Africa 
and with African culture.
Sunday, October 7,2001
1130 am-500 pm - Art Gallery Showing: Sehou/lbou University Center Art Gallery
1200 pm - DrumOrde: University Cut Tent
Bring your own instrument and jam with Master Drummer Elie Kihonia. learn African beats 
and songs and express your musical talent
1200 pm - Marketplace: University Cut Tent
100 pm - Fabie: Lillian Sogga: University Cut Tent
200 pm - African Gospel Choir. University CutTent
330 pm-4:30 p - Afrisa: University Cut Tent
, Celebrate the dose of the 2001 International Festival with a musical performance by the world 
renown‘Afrisa'
CarnegieMclIon
430 pm - Opening Keynote Address: Dimandja Kasongo Connan Room,University Center 
'Co-Sponsored by ALCOA
630 pm/- Carnegie Mellon University Philharmonic Rangos I & II,University Center
In conjunction with Family Weekend, the Carnegie Mellon University Philharmonic Percussion 
/'/ Ensemble offers a variety of n|sical piecepr your listening pleasure. /
Vl^ongo Dance Impan^^rsitvOitTent 0 / J ,,
Wacongo Dance Company is a traditional ensemble, including Master drummers, musicians and ¡1 fdaipi whlperform ancesWsongs anfdancs from various ethnic groups of Central Africa.
4

---------------------------------------------------

Science/vTechnoloey
I October 2001THE TARTANPage B5
Carnegie Mellon one of 40 universities worldwide 
selected to receive Itanium systems research grant
by Sriram Vaidhyanathan
Science & Technology Editor
Computer science and engineering research 
at Carnegie Mellon is set to get a boost, after the University was named as one of 40 universities 
throughout the world to receive a generous grant of Hewlett-Packard 
servers and workstations based on the new 64-bit Itanium processor 
from Intel.In a joint announcement, both 
Intel and Hewlett-Packard 
announced that the Itanium-based systems would ideally be used for 
research in areas as diverse as bio­
informatics and neural networks, compilers and cluster programming, 
and computational science and data mining. Named the “Itanium-Based System 
Grant Program,” the two companies wish to advance standards of research in universities 
and also to enhance the performance of the 
Itanium processor for users worldwide.
With a price tag set at $2.5 million, the HP 
rx4610 server model and the HP Í2000 worksta­
tion will be delivered to the selected universities 
worldwide this fall.In a press release, David Tennenhouse, the vice president and research director at Intel 
Corp., mentioned that the enduring hope of the 
two companies was that the universities would 
be able to use the grant to further standards of 
innovation in their respective fields, not to men­
tion invent new applications for the technology 
in the fields of business, science, and
technology.Intel and HP jointly developed the grant pro­gram under the administration of HP University 
Relations and Intel Academic Relations and the 
auspices of Intel Research and HP Labs. The 
Intel/HP team invited universities throughout 
the world to propose how they would deploy the
Itanium-based systems to strengthen their research. A professor at Princeton University 
was quoted to have said that they hoped to 
investigate the possibilities of security enhance­
ments from processor and architecture 
advances.Carnegie Mellon finds itself in illustrious 
national company when it comes to other uni­
versities who were also awarded the grant. 
These include MIT, the University of California 
at Berkeley, the University of Illinois at Urbana- 
Champaign, Princeton, the California Institute 
of Technology, and Cornell University. 
Universities abroad receiving the grant included the University of Waterloo and McGill University 
in Canada, the National University of Singapore, 
Seoul National University, the University of New
South Wales, Karlsruhe University in Germany, 
and Cambridge University in the United 
Kingdom.The Itanium is the successor to Intel’s Pentium range of processors. Serving as a sixth-genera­
tion chip, the 64-bit architecture of the proces­
sor promises much power and resources for advancements in science and tech­
nology. Marketing them as the 
“Engine behind the Internet Economy,” Intel touts the next family 
of processors to be the ideal solution to delivering flexibility, value, and 
choice for proprietary solutions in the market. Targeting e-businesses, 
Intel calls their latest brainchild the 
ticket to high availability, scalability, 
and performance. Using Explicitly 
Parallel Instruction Computing (EPIC) technology, the processor is 
allowed to execute multiple instructions simul­taneously and includes features to overcome 
legacy performance limitations.
Features of the Intel Itanium processor, such as increased floating-point performance, memo­
ry bandwidth, and memory addressability to 
handle large data sets, are hoped to significant­
ly enhance performance and lead to improve­
ments in the workstation market. Workstation 
applications in the high-performance comput­
ing segment, digital content creation, mechani­
cal and electrical design automation will benefit 
from 64-bit addressing, floating-point perfor­
mance, and the EPIC features delivered by the Intel Itanium processor, claims the chip giant in 
the industry. It could be a while before the 
Itanium strikes home PC’s, though.
File sharing on the Internet undergoes drastic 
changes after Napster’s downfall in the courts
by Joe Elliott
Junior Staffwriter
As long as the Internet has existed, savvy computer users have used it to pirate copyright­
ed material. Once upon a time, it all revolved 
around IRC (that’s Internet Relay Chat for those of you that don’t remember what the Internet 
was like in 1994) and Usenet, protocols that have been nearly forgotten as the Internet has 
grown and become a part of mainstream society. 
Along came Hotline Software in 1996 with the slogan “There is more than the Web” and their 
revolutionary shareware app that combined chat, file sharing (with resumable downloads!), 
and a primitive “news” feature, all in an elegant 
graphical interface. From a technical stand­
point, anybody who could use a Mac could 
pirate music and software over the internet with 
Hotline, and it’s brilliant Client/Server/Tracker 
model kept all responsibility for copyright viola­
tion with anonymous users rather than the com­
pany. But Hotline servers aren’t searchable, and 
many servers required accounts and passwords 
for users to gain access. Hotline users became 
an online community that shunned “newbies,” 
so the only thing that really differentiated 
Hotline from the IRC communities and “Warez” FTP sites that preceded it was the user-friendly 
software. In February 1999, a German develop­er released Carracho, a very Hotline-like pro­
gram that added a primitive search feature, but 
the exclusivity was still there, as disgruntled 
Hotline users formed a similar community 
around Carracho.It was only a matter of months before Shawn 
Fanning’s music-only Napster took the internet 
by storm. An ingenious approach to traditional peer-to-peer file sharing, Napster eliminated the 
traditional server, and made users files available 
to each other directly, keeping a database of 
who-had-what on the company’s servers. That proved to be Napster’s tragic flaw. Unlike 
Hotline and Carracho, which distributed “track­
er” programs that anonymous users would run 
to keep track of servers containing copyrighted
material, Napster kept that information on its 
own servers. The file-swapping that Napster 
made possible was as blatantly illegal as what 
went on in the underground world of IRC or 
Hotline while being about as inconspicuous as yahoo.com. The recording industry and its 
lawyers swept down on Napster, and as you’re 
probably well aware, courts shut the service down on July 2 of this year. Napster recently agreed to pay music publishers $26 million to 
settle their differences (although the deal still 
has to be approved by federal court), and while the suit brought against the company by major 
record labels has yet to be resolved, Napster is 
planning to introduce a subscription-based (i.e. legal) service in the near future. But the new 
Napster will be irrelevant to the millions of users 
who used it because it was free. Thirty-one mil­
lion AOL users notwithstanding, free content is 
what makes the Internet so great. With Napster 
gone, or at least marginalized, the door was left 
wide open for dozens of similar services to fill 
the hole left by Napster’s demise, but without 
breaking the law.The four most popular services are currently 
FastTrack, AudioGalaxy, iMesh, and Gnutella. 
All these services use a distributed computing approach to organizing file-sharing networks 
(distributed computing first came to the inter­
net in the form the SETI@Home client, several 
years ago). FastTrack is unique in that rather 
than distributing a proprietary client like 
Hotline, Carracho, and Napster before it, it 
licensed its unique technology to other compa­
nies that distribute their own clients. That’s why 
you may not have heard of FastTrack, but that’s 
the software under the surface at file sharing 
services such as Grokster and MusicCity. The 
FastTrack system combines the best of Hotline 
and Napster. Like Hotline, the FastTrack net­
work is independent of the company’s servers, 
and relies entirely on users’ computers. It’s also 
not limited to music like Napster was, but unlike 
Hotline it provides Napster-like search capabili­
ties so you can find the exact song, movie, com­
puter program, or Simpsons episode you’re look­ing for. It also tries to point you towards the
copy of what you’re seeking that’s going to pro­vide you with the fastest connection. And 
FastTrack also takes the Client/Tracker Napster 
model a step further by integrating the tracker 
into the client (they call it a “SuperNode” rather than a tracker). Only the most powerful clients 
with the fastest connections function on the net­
work as “SuperNodes,” though. Earlier this month, FastTrack recorded four hundred thou­
sand simultaneous connections - at its peak, 
Napster recorded 1.57 million simultaneous 
connections. AudioGalaxy uses a proprietary client in conjunction with its Web site. Like 
FastTrack, it relies on its clients to keep track of 
each other. Searches and most other user inter­
action are performed in the web browser, and 
the AudioGalaxy client, or “satellite” as they call it, is responsible for connecting to other users 
and downloading the files. Another interesting feature of AudioGalaxy is that its Web site not 
only searches the AudioGalaxy user network, but several FTP servers (containing music) as 
well. As the name implies, AudioGalaxy is limit­
ed to music. This service seems entirely too much like Napster, so one can only wonder how 
long it can keep itself out of legal trouble. iMesh 
distributes a client similar to the FastTrack 
clients, and works much the same way. Gnutella stands out because it was the first of the distrib­
uted computing-style file sharing services, and 
because it’s an open-source project. Unlike Napster and Hotline, the dozens of Gnutella 
clients available have all sprung from the same 
freely-distributed source code. There are even 
Web sites that have been created to function as 
Gnutella clients, although they provide no pro­vision for uploading. (A seemingly complete list 
of available Gnutella clients is available at 
http://www.gnutelliums.com.) The Gnutella 
system is showing its age, however. It’s not as 
quick or as elegant as the newer FastTrack sys­
tem, and downloads are prone to failure.
It’s also worth noting that while the Internet file-sharing revolution continues to grow and 
evolve in its own quirky manner, Hotline 
Communications closed its doors last week due 
to financial difficulties.
Unique System-on-Chip 
graduate-level program 
makes debut this year
by Sriram Vaidhyanathan
Science & Technology Editor
There has been no shortage of 
innovative and interdisciplinary undergraduate and graduate pro­grams popping up within the last 
few years at Carnegie Mellon, with the popular e-commerce and 
computational finance degrees 
being just two examples. This 
time, however, the University is collaborating with the University 
of Pittsburgh and Penn State
SoC involves complex technolo­gies such as glue logic, the inte­
gration of external IP compo­
nents, the development of inter­nal IP components, the co-simula­
tion of hardware and software, the verification and testing of 
hardware models, fabrication and finally system integration.SoC design itself is known to be 
a fairly complex and interwoven field in itself, especially with its 
greater integration goal in mind. The curriculum agreed upon for 
the certificate program itself con-
Networ ks p dblm
A collaborative effort between CMU, Pitt, and Penn State University
Kickoff event: Wednesday, October 3
Singleton Room
Noon to 1 PM, lunch provided
Carnegie Mellon¡<19 sm»M protfuc
University to put together a unique certificate program in 
System-on-Chip design (SoC).
Sponsored by a local organiza­
tion known as the Pittsburgh Digital Greenhouse, the project 
hopes to produce students that 
will be able to enhance the region­al talent pool of engineers 
equipped to deal with and design 
the next generation of Integrated 
Circuits. Experts in the field 
believe that the success of these future generation initiatives is 
strongly dependent on the avail­
ability of engineers with the 
knowledge of hardware-software 
implementations in novel archi­
tectures and with the capability to 
bridge gaps between software- 
centric system specifications. Being a certificate program at the 
graduate level, students wishing 
to take part in the program would 
have to be a full-time graduate student at either Carnegie Mellon, 
the University of Pittsburgh, or 
Penn State University.
The first kind of certificate pro­
gram to be spread out in this man­
ner, the certificate program is 
hoped to create new graduate 
level courses in the area of 
System-on-chip design, taught by experts in the field at all three uni­
versities. The Electrical and 
Computer Engineering
Department at Carnegie Mellon, the Computer Science and 
Engineering Department at Penn 
State University, and the Electrical 
Engineering Department at the 
University of Pittsburgh are the 
major constituents of the partner­
ship. Keeping in mind Carnegie 
Mellon’s eminence in Electrical 
and Computer Engineering and 
also in Computer Science, the ven­ture is not only a boost to the 
University, but also to the 
strengthening of academic and 
industrial ties in the Pennsylvania region.
sists of various requirements, such 
as the core curriculum itself. The 
core courses for the certificate 
program are to be registered for 
and taken at the student’s home 
institution, while the elective spe­
cialized courses are to be regis­
tered for at any of the other uni­
versities in the program. This 
would allow for each university in 
the partnership to focus on an 
independent aspect of the field, while at the same time students at 
another institution could take 
advantage of the resources of 
their interest at another location. 
The certificate program involves a 
major SoC design project course, 
involving the companies that com­
prise the Pittsburgh Digital 
Greenhouse, in addition to a 
strong University presence. The 
final certificate is awarded with the master’s degree from the stu-. 
dent’s home institution.
Heather Greco, a junior at the 
University of Pittsburgh and 
ambassador to the Pittsburgh 
Digital Greenhouse, commented 
that if the certificate program 
went well, it would prove to be a 
stepping stone to future joint cur­
ricula.
The Pittsburgh Digital Greenhouse is an economic devel­
opment initiative begun in 1999. Its primary purpose is to build an 
industry clustered around the 
application of SoC technology in 
the digital multimedia and net­working markets.
The Greenhouse, via its spon­sorship and strong support for the 
SoC certificate program, hopes to establish a trend of economic 
expansion and job creation in the 21st century. Supported by 
Pennsylvania’s universities, pri­
vate foundations, state and local 
government, and industry, the 
Greenhouse hopes to attract new 
companies to the region and help 
members grow.Bio-terrorism poses new threat to global security
Jeff Cullers/Photo Staff
John Oliensis from the NEC Research Institute, gave a lecture this past 
Friday at Newell-Simon Hall as part of the Robotics Institute’s seminar 
series. The topic of his talk was "Movies to Geometric 3D models : The 
Structure from Motion problem.”
by Pratik Agarwal
Junior Staffwriter
“Before, the constraints on terrorism had a 
moral element, but that seems to have disap­peared now.”
- Malcolm Dando (Professor of International 
Security, Bradford University)
In light of the recent terrorist attacks on 
America, the meaning of morality seems to have 
been redefined. As if the demolition of the WTC 
towers wasn’t enough, experts now fear the use 
of biological agents, such as deadly viruses, is 
the next step for these callous terrorists. Even 
though such an attack would be technically dif­
ficult, it would certainly be most effective. According to the Arizona Department of Health 
Services, bioterrorism gives the biggest “bang” 
for the buck. For instance, use of conventional 
weapons would cost an estimated $2,000 per 
square kilometer, nuclear weapons would cost 
$800, chemical weapons $600, and biological 
weapons would only cost an estimated $1 per
square kilometer.
British experts believe that the use of crop- 
dusting airplanes is the best option and also one 
that we have reason to suspect. Time reported 
that the FBI had found a manual on crop dusting 
among the belongings of one of the suspects for 
the World Trade Center attacks. Even though 
the FBI refused to confirm or deny this finding, 
they did order crop dusters to be grounded. In 
another startling report, crop duster mechanics 
in Florida told CNN that a group of Arab men 
had questioned them in August about the speci­
fications of crop-dusters, including their carry­ing capacity.
The largest attack of this kind so far on a glob­
al scale has been the 1995 attack on the Tokyo 
subways, which used a nerve gas called Sarin. 
Japanese officials proved the cult Aum Shinrikyo to be responsible for the killings and 
injuries in the incident.
If at all, experts claim, Anthrax spores would 
be the probable choice in a terrorist strike. The 
US Office of Technological Assessment found 
that 100 kilograms of virulent Anthrax dis­persed at night over Washington DC could cause
between one and three million deaths. Croi 
dusters can carry twice that amount.
Such growing threats have had visible effect^ 
on the general public, with the madly increasing 
sales of gas masks being one. John Eldridgel editor of Jane’s Nuclear, Biological and Chemica\ 
Defense says, “It’s an over reaction and that’s 
sign people don’t have the information thejj 
need.” Stores around the US and UK hava 
reported thousands of sales of such masks daib| 
since the WTC crash. Even though certair 
masks are capable of protection against biologil 
cal agents such as anthrax, buying the “wrong! 
type is very easy. Another factor is that a mask i| 
only useful provided it is worn before an attad 
and predicting such an attack is close to impos sible.
The best way to reduce the threat is to prever 
the proliferation of expertise in manufacturing 
chemical and biological weapons. Professol 
Malcolm Dando suggests some sort of an agree 
ment between states to abandon their researcj 
on such technology. Perhaps, this in effec 
would cut off the very source of any such possj 
bilities.

---------------------------------------------------

B6THE TARTAN • OCTOBER 1, 2001
Intelligent robots could help stave 
off the dangers of modern terrorism
Shaina McGrath/Photo Co-Editor
Students and recruiters thronged the University Center Gymnasium and Rangos Hall last Monday and Tuesday for 
the Business Opportunities Conference (BOC) and the Technical Opportunities Conference (TOC) respectively. Both 
job fairs experienced a decline in the number of companies attending, attributed to the current state of the econo­
my and the recent terrorist attacks.
SCS receives $24 million NSF grant
From GRANTS, Page A1
of the research at CMU. “These 
grants represent a broad spectrum 
of research efforts involving many 
different faculty,” said Bryant. “In the CMU spirit, many of the pro­
jects bring together people with 
diverse backgrounds to work 
together collaboratively.”
Historically, SCS has relied on 
large contracts and grants from the Department of Defense to finance 
research. However, in past years, 
the Department of Defense has 
been increasingly hesitant to fund 
the basic type of research primarily 
conducted by SCS. The recent 
grants awarded to SCS represent a shift toward funding by the 
National Science Foundation, whose charter is to support funda­
mental research.
“Although the actual dollar 
amounts are not especially large by our previous standards, the fact 
that we are getting so much NSF 
funding lets us pursue a more pure 
research mission,” says Bryant. 
Bryant finds the number of individ­
ual grants awarded this year to be 
especially impressive. The applica­
tion process started with last year’s NSF grant competition, where a
high percentage of SCS project pro­
posals were rejected. After re-for­mulating their research projects 
and creating compelling proposals, 
SCS faculty ultimately earned a 
long list of notable awards.The size of the grants range from 
$424,000 to $5.6 million, with the 
largest award made to Guy Blelloch 
(CS), Daniel Sleator (CS), Ravi Ramamoorthi (GSIA), Bob Tarjan 
(Princeton), and Lenore Blum (CS) 
for their submitted proposal titled “ALADDIN: A Center for Algorithm 
Adaption, Dissemination and 
Integration.” The ALADDIN Center 
is co-directed by Blelloch and 
Blum.“Theoretical research in comput­
er science has profound implica­
tions for practice, but often there is considerable lag time (sometimes 
decades) for ‘technology transfer’ 
to occur,” said Blum, explaining 
the project. “On the other hand, 
real world problems often give rise 
to challenging research problems 
for theoreticians. The ALADDIN project brings the real world of 
theory and the world of practice 
together with the special emphasis 
on the role of ‘algorithms in the 
real world.’ Our NSF-ITR award will help us establish the ALADDIN
Center.” Blum also added that the 
SCS at Carnegie Mellon is the per­fect home for ALADDIN since the 
University has a long history of 
interdisciplinary work — collabo­ration between theory and prac­
tice.Sara Kiesler, an HCII professor, received $3.2 million for her work 
in conjunction with Jodi Forlizzi 
and Sebastian Thrun for 
“Cognitive and Social Design of 
Robotic Assistants.” “[The project] 
is a unique opportunity to explore human-robot interaction in a dif­
ferent way than anyone has ever 
done,” said Kiesler. “We are going 
to explore the nature of anthropo­
morphism, the tasks that robotic 
assistants should do and how they 
should do them, along with inter­
esting technical issues, and many 
ethical and social issues surround­
ing the future use of robots. A very diverse and talented group of col­
leagues and students will work on 
the project.”
SCS faculty agree that the NSF grants bring important recognition 
to the field of computer science, to 
the individual research of University faculty members, and to 
the overall work done at Carnegie Mellon University.
NEW YORK (AP) - For the U.S. 
military, bombing or rocketing 
mobile targets like tanks, trucks 
and suspected terrorists has been a frustrating problem.Often, a target captured by 
surveillance photos disappears 
before a commander can give the order to fire. In 1998, US 
authorities believe, Osama bin Laden departed an encampment 
in Afghanistan just a few hours 
before a barrage of US cruise missiles demolished it.
Now, the military is testing 
software robots that can identify targets and present them to com­
manders much more quickly 
than a human could.The software, known as the 
Control of Agent-Based Systems 
or CoABS, uses artificially intel­
ligent “agents” to sift through 
troves of images and intelligence data to find viable targets.The intelligent agents, 
designed by teams of defense 
contractors and university 
researchers, deal with one of the chief challenges military and 
intelligence analysts face: infor­
mation overload.Humans simply can’t cope 
with the avalanche of incoming 
communications intercepts, satellite and spy plane images, 
and other data quickly enough 
to coordinate reliable targets.
Software agents can under­
stand voice commands and screen, sort and deliver incom­
ing data, researchers say.
“It takes us too long to get the 
intelligence to a weapons sys­tem,” said James Hendler, the 
US Defense Advanced Research 
Projects Agency’s just-departed 
chief information systems scien­
tist. “These agents route the right information to the right 
people at the right time.”
The agents might transfer an 
image from, say, an Air Force spy 
plane directly to a commander 
on a nearby Naval vessel, who 
could quickly order a cruise mis­
sile strike - bypassing the usual 
route through Washington.
The Defense Department’s robot-like agents handle far more complex tasks than their
better-known cousins, the soft­ware bots embedded in search 
engines or the animated paper­
clip that offers help to users of some Microsoft software.
The DOD’s dogged software agents work in teams, plumbing 
the murkiest depths of a com­puter network, communicating 
with each other and growing “smarter” as they work, said 
Daniel Daskiewich, CoABS pro­gram manager at the Air Force Research Labs site in Rome, N.Y.
Army, Navy, and Air Force 
researchers, along with defense contractor Lockheed Martin 
Corp., have recognized software agents as “absolutely critical” in 
solving another long-standing frustration - the inability to 
share data across the military's 
myriad computer systems, 
Daskiewich said.
“If you go to an Army com­mand center you’ll see 200 peo­
ple in front of 200 computer sys­
tems. They’re not inter-operat­
ing with each other,” Hendler 
said. “We created a system that 
makes it easy for systems to talk 
to each other.”With the oceans of data being 
collected by US military and 
intelligence agencies, experts 
say cross-agency sharing is cru­
cial to tracking future threats.“This is among the most 
important challenges facing the 
intelligence community,” said 
Steven Aftergood, a Federation 
of American Scientists analyst. 
“The agencies are swamped with 
information that they are unable 
to make heads or tails of. They 
can harness technology to do some of their preliminary analy­
sis for them.”
Beyond the United States, 
software agents could be used in 
a coalition military effort - such 
as a future war on terrorism - to link military systems with those 
of allies, said researcher Niranjan Suri of the University 
of West Florida in Pensacola, 
Fla.
DARPA has even developed a programming language for Web 
pages called DAML (DARPA Agent Markup Language) that
helps the software agents read and understand the Defense 
Department’s Internet files, said 
Katia Sycara, a research scientist who heads Carnegie Mellon 
University’s Advanced Agents Technology Lab.
Intelligent software agents might also help with other mili­tary tasks, such as crisis plan­
ning during an evacuation.
In a $50 million, five-year pro­ject Sycara’s lab developed for 
DARPA, a mock evacuation plan of the US embassy in Kuwait 
shows four tiers of software agents designing a route map to 
the airport - avoiding rebel road­
blocks - by monitoring intelli­
gence reports related to the cri­
sis.“All these agents coordinate 
depending on the particular 
task,” said Sycara. “You can view them as teams of specialists that 
assemble to solve your problem, 
whatever it happens to be at the time. The problem could be 
changing.”
Data-mining robots are 
already being used by US intelli­
gence agencies to pluck informa­
tion from the Internet and data­
bases of intercepted communica­
tions.But the agencies’ strict securi­ty policies have tempered enthu­
siasm for sharing data across 
networks.Many in the intelligence com­
munity favored tighter restric­
tions on network access, espe­cially after the arrest on 
attempted spying charges last 
month of retired Air Force 
Sergeant Brian P. Regan, who had access to Intelink, a shared 
intelligence network, saidAftergood.
After the terrorist attacks of 
September 11, worries about network security were overrid­
den by national security fears, 
Hendler said.
“In the intelligence communi­
ty, they’re realizing inter-oper­
ability is absolutely crucial,” 
Hendler said. “The agencies 
need concepts like software 
agents to bring them together in a collaborative manner.”
Re
Find
define your world
After graduation, you could be training 
wildlife managers in Mongolia, working 
in HiV/AIDS education in Malawi, or helping 
women set up cooperatives in El Salvador. 
A visiting Peace Corps representative can 
provide you with more information.
out more.
Information Session
Tuesday, October 2, 2001 
5 p.m.
University Center, Wright Room, 2nd Floor
Information Table
Tuesday, October 2, 2001 
11 a.m. to 3 p.m.
University Center, Wright Room, 2nd Floor
; .< &8j
Call 1-800 424-8580 
or visit www.peacec
BERMAN CHIROPRACTIC OFFICE
128 N. Craig Street
(Park Plaza Bldg. between CMU and PITT)
HEADACHES, STRESS, NECK PAIN, BACK PAIN,
OR JUST WANT BETTER HEALTH??
erman Chiropractic has been serving the CMU and PITT communities 
for the past 17years.
Please Call For an Appointment... Today!!
687-11*12
ROVIDERS FOR AON SELECT, BC/BS, HEALTH AMERICA, UPMC 
SPECIAL STUDENT RATES

---------------------------------------------------

Entertainment
I October 2001 THE TARTAN Page B7
BY PAUL RICHELMI
8 1/2 Women 
Thursday, October 4th
True to form, AB is sponsoring an off-the-wall, lesser known 
movie this Thursday. 8 1/2 Women tells of a father and son 
opening a brothel after the father’s wife dies. Things fall apart, 
and the concubines take control. It’s your typical movie, if you 
ask me. My question is, where is the half woman? Is the other 
half a man, or does the other half not exist? Maybe she was 
eaten in the movie Attack of the 50 Foot Woman. No, I bet she’s 
wandering in search of her second half.
Of course, the bottom half is doing the searching. Having no 
eyes, she’s constantly walking, searching for her torso. One 
time she ended up in Switzerland. It wasn’t that long of a walk 
from Geneva. After being purturbed at her inability to drink 
Swiss Miss hot cocoa, she left. Next she wandered into Spain, 
stomping on the grapes in the South. Then through Portugal, 
until she was at the Atlantic. Not being able to drown, she 
walked and walked, on the bottom of the ocean. Four months 
later, she arrived on the shore of Georgia, in Savannah. She was 
picked up by the carnies at a local circus as the new exhibit for 
the freak show, never to be heard from again.
At 7:30 pm, 10 pm, and 12:30 am
In McConomy Auditorium
The Fast and the Furious 
Friday, October 5th
If you’re a car goon, you'll love this movie. If you like to waste 
your time and risk your life in car races with hooligans, then 
this movie is also for you. The cars in this movie are fast and 
furious, and so are the tempers of the characters. An under­
cover cop tries to break a car-jacking ring, and in doing so falls 
in love. Of course, with someone he’ll have to betray the trust 
of. What will the starcrossed lovers do? Come to McConomy 
on Friday night, and find out.
“Hey baby, wanna hop in my low-rider?” Yeah, that’s the line 
that comes from a winner. I can’t rag on low-rider clubs 
though, they are actually quite philanthropic. The one back 
home gives money to all sorts of causes. It’s a lot better than 
pumping money into gold wheels, and hydraulics that react to 
the bass line played on the obnoxious stereo. I guess all people 
have different tastes; I’m not one to criticize.
At 7:30 pm, 10 pm, and 12:30 am 
In McConomy Auditorium
Blow
Saturday, October 6th
Johnny Depp plays a well-to-do cocaine dealer in this movie. 
His character is actually George Jung, the dealer who started 
the cocaine market in the United States. It’s true, folks. This 
movie tracks his ups and downs, with Penelope Cruz beside 
him. Reviews for this movie haven’t been terrible, but have not 
been generous either. But coming to this movie will certainly 
be a lot better than sitting in the cluster on a Saturday night, 
playing Quake. Or worse yet, coding.
I wonder if Tom Cruise is mad that Peneolope starred in a 
movie with Johnny Depp before she starred in a movie with 
him. He seems like the jealous fellow. Why he got rid of Nicole 
Kidman, I’ll never know, but she can feel free to call me any- > 
time. Anyway, Tom and Penelope, I wonder if they go cruising 
a lot. Maybe this winter they’ll go on a cruise to Alaska. Do they 
get cruise control on their cars? If they get married, will she be 
Peneolpe Cruz-Cruise? During the wedding, I bet Nicole will 
come back in, and claim that she’s pregnant with Tom’s child, 
and they’ll just have to call the wedding off.
At 7:30 pm, 10 pm, and 12:30 am 
In McConomy Auditorium
Heavy Metal 2000 
Sunday, October 7th
I’ll come right out and say it, this movie will be disgusting. It’s 
animated, firstly, and it contains quite a bit of debauchery. 
Animated debauchery is just not cool. It’s warped. People who 
draw that kind of stuff draw it because they can’t get any in real 
life. This girl’s sister is abducted, and she has to find her. That’s 
the plot. That makes me think of what exactly the title has to do 
with the movie. It’s probably to promote some over-hyped 
soundtrack that is “inspired” by the movie.
How can a song be inspired by the movie when the movie has 
not even premeired yet? Do these so called “artists” get a first 
peek at it? Then if they decide to write a song, why put it on the 
soundtrack? I’d request that it would be put in the movie. A 
soundtrack is supposed to have the movie music on it, not extra­
neous stuff. Sadly, gone are the days of the orchestral scores for 
movies. Besides John Williams, there is no one left. Franz 
Waxman, Bernard Herrmann, Erich Korngold, you are all sadly 
missed.
At 8 pm, 10 pm, and 12 am 
In McConomy Auditorium
Martha Stewart on Crack: Doodle on 
the tablecloth while you eat your dinner
Slipknot 
offers up 
new albumBy Debra Halpern
The week of September 24 not only proved to be a week of 
America back to some normalcy, 
but also the return of the Michaels. 
People say things, good or bad, 
always come in three, and 
Michaels proves to be no different. 
Three Michaels have made their come back this week.
First, I must start with Michael 
Jordan, even though he is a sports figure, he has also become an 
entertainment figure. He has not come out yet and claims he won’t 
until October. Others have previ­
ously made this move. Apparently 
Michael Jordan is doing a Mario 
Lemuix. Jordan is signed to play 
for the basketball team that he has owned for two years.
The second Michael comeback of this week came Tuesday night at 
9 pm when Spin City aired their 
season premiere episode. Michael 
J. Fox came back as Michael Flaherty. Michael J. Fox original­
ly retired the character because of 
his battle with Parkinson’s disease.
Fox just won’t let the disease win 
though; he has spoken up about 
the disease and now made a return 
to television. Although Fox’s char­acter is not supposed to stick 
around past the first two episodes 
of the season, it is great to see him 
put his acting shoes back on and 
the story line was interesting too. The first episode was centered 
around contrasting Charlie 
Sheen’s character’s love life with Michael J. Fox’s character’s love 
life. Next week looks like a good 
episode, as it seems to be Sheen’s character wants Fox’s character 
out of the mayor’s office. Michael J. Fox is a great actor and he 
proved himself on Tuesday night to 
be no different despite his illness.
The day after Michael J. Fox’s return on Tuesday the 25th of 
September, Michael Jackson pre­miered his new video. “You Rock 
My World,” in complete Michael 
Jackson style, is not only a music 
video, but also a short film with 
stars like Chris Tucker, Marlon 
Brando, and Michael Madson 
making appearances. The short
film proves that Michael Jackson is still the king of pop. He can still 
dance, sing, and ‘aw’ audiences 
with his music video power. The 
film is much like Jackson’s 80’s hit “Smooth Criminal,” with a gang­
ster theme going on. And much 
like “Smooth Criminal,” it has 
innovative dancing. If you can 
believe it, Michael Jackson has 
taken his old dance moves and 
added another great twist to them. 
Even if you do not like the song, it 
is a delightful watch for anyone’s 
eyes. His new studio album will delight ears on October 30 and 
soon to come on CBS will be his 
concert special with the return of 
the Jackson Five. To view Michael 
Jackson’s new video or older ones 
go to http://www.mjnet.com, a sure place for hardcore Michael Jackson fans.
Whoever came up with the idea 
that everything comes in three’s is 
definitely right. All three Michaels 
that have made their return this 
week are welcomed with open 
arms. At least they are by me. Got to love the Michaels!
by Albert Cohen
Staff writer
As a whole, Slipknot is an inter­
esting musical entity. In the space 
of two years, they have gone from 
tearing up the second stage on 
Ozzfest ‘99, to co-headlining the 
inaugural Tattoo the Earth festi­
val with Slayer, to releasing what 
has probably become the most 
anticipated album of the year, 
their sophomore effort “Iowa.” 
During this time, a loyal core of 
fans lovingly referred to as the 
Maggot Core by the band has 
grown and hit critical mass. Now 
too large to ignore, this fan base 
has demanded to know every­
thing about the native Iowans, 
and so the bombardment of 
media exposure. From the cover 
of Rolling Stone, Alternative Press, 
and Kerrang to the more metal 
targeted Metal Edge and Hit 
Parader, it seems that they are the 
See SLIPKNOT, page B8
Gullifty’s desserts take the cake while food, 
atmosphere leave something to be desired
by Kristin Lala
Copy co-Editor
“Hey, Kristin, would you like to go to a restau­rant with decor that reminds us of Martha 
Stewart on crack?”“Why, sure, friends. What’s it called?”
“Elbow Room, in Shadyside. It’s on the Ultraviolet Loop shuttle route. It has a bar and 
skylights, and you can even doodle on the paper 
tablecloths!”
“Positively super-rad! Lead the way!”Ah, the joys of exploring local restaurants. 
This past weekend, a couple of friends and I headed off to sample the American cuisine of 
Elbow Room, located at 5744 Ellsworth Avenue, 
an aptly named spacious locale with walls the 
peach-toned equivalent of Pepto Bismol and 
individual butter containers large enough to clog your arteries in one sitting.
Okay, so it wasn’t that bad. There was no wait 
to be seated, the menu had plenty of variety, and the prices were fairly reasonable. And under­
neath our waitress’s surly façade, I know lurked 
a woman filled with pride for her eating estab­lishment. Nevermind the fact that we were the 
youngest customers by far, or that we had to beg 
for breadsticks, Elbow Room definitely has 
potential as a nice alternative to the Saturday 
night crowds on Walnut Street or in Squirrel Hill 
and Oakland.
Arriving at 8:30 pm, we were seated immedi-
At the Elbow Room restaurant, located on Ellsworth Avenue past Shadyside, the restaurant allows you 
to write on the paper tablecloths while enjoying food at a reasonable price.
ately in one of the restaurant’s three adjoining 
dining rooms. Menu options included sandwich­
es, pastas, chicken and steak dishes, and a 
respectable number of salads. Desserts were 
mostly of the chocolate variety, although we 
were admittedly too sated from the main course
to sample any. Prices, too, won’t dent the typical 
college student’s budget too badly - salads and 
sandwiches were around $7, while entrees 
ranged from $8 to $13. Hey, if any of you shelled 
out $6.95 or whatever ridiculous price it was to See ELBOW ROOM, page B8
the apples fresh. The Long Island iced tea was 
delicious, yet potent. I was definitely satisfied 
with my decision.
While I was awaiting my pie, several of my 
friends were left waiting for their appetizers. 
They received their bowl of soup hearty potato 
soup and cheese cubes only a few minutes 
before the actual meal arrived.
While we were waiting for the food, we 
looked above our heads to notice a tile missing from the ceiling. When we asked the waiter 
what had happened, he replied that about a 
month ago one of the tiles had fallen and almost hit a table of elderly women. This made 
me a little paranoid for the remainder of my 
meal.
Despite the decor and service, Gullifty’s is still a must for every Carnegie Mellon student. 
They have a dessert for everyone. Chocolate- 
lovers can’t go wrong with the triple chocolate 
cake. There’s cheesecake and French strawber­
ry that serve as worthy alternatives. The Killer 
Cookie is big enough to feed all your friends.
While $4.50 might seem like a bit much for 
dessert, it is definitely worth it at Gullifty’s. 
One slice of pie was enough to tide me over for the rest of the night. Their food is reasonably 
priced also with most dishes costing between 
$7 and $15.
In addition to the good price, Gullifty’s is 
also conveniently located on Murray Avenue in 
Squirrel Hill and easily accessible by any 61 bus.
While I definitely recommend heading to Gullifty’s at some point during your stay in 
Pittsburgh, I would simply suggest that you eat 
the real food elsewhere and swing by Gullifty’s 
later for some coffee and dessert.
Final Grade: B-
Gullitfy’s is famous for its delicious desserts, such as the apple walnut pie shown above.
by Sara Stille
Co-Editor-in-Chief
I set out with a group of friends on Friday 
night to eat some dinner and go Cosmic bowl­
ing. We decided on a classic Pittsburgh restau­
rant — Gullifty’s. While Gullifty’s is a popular 
destination for CMU students, I’ve been left to 
see their food as mediocre, the decor as plain,
the service as average, but the desserts as 
exquisite.
While the people I was with ordered chicken 
strips, the famous Gullifty’s “wedgie,” fish ‘n 
chips, and other typical menu items, I went 
straight for the good stuff. Despite the odd look 
I got from the waitor, I decided to go with a 
slice of apple walnut pie and a Long Island iced 
tea.
The pie was excellent. The crust was soft and

---------------------------------------------------

B8 THE TARTAN • OCTOBER 1, 2001
Morgan Stanley, a global leader in financial services, is looking for people who can develop and apply technology to shape one of the world’s 
largest, most complex businesses. Whether supporting record trading volume, connecting us with clients around the globe, or developing 
profitable new products and services, technology is a key source of competitive advantage. Our application developers, infrastructure 
engineers and technical support staff work closely together with business people to create innovative solutions to ever-changing needs.
How far can a technology career in financial services take you? Morgan Stanley is the place to find out. Whatever your aspirations, we 
can give you the tools and the opportunities to achieve them.
Information Session 
Tuesday, October 2, 2001 
7:00 - 9:00 p.m. 
Porter Hall 
Room A18B
Apply online at morganstanley.com/careers
Join us.
MorganStanley
Morgan Stanley is an Equal Opportunity Employer committed to workforce diversity. Morgan Stanley is a service mark of Morgan Stanley Dean Witter & Co.
Critic gives new Slipknot album an AElbow room proves to be 
viable alternative to crowds
ELBOW ROOM, from page B7 eat at Highlander during its dying 
days, Elbow Room’s selections will 
seem like imported caviar in com­parison.
Our drinks were served instantly, 
followed promptly by salad. It was 
the ensuing 30- minute wait for the entrees that allowed us ample time 
to critique the setting. As stated, the walls were a combination of 
pale orange paint and green floral wallpapering. The effect was calm­
ing at first, but soon made me feel like I was being smothered in a dis­
tressingly feminine comforter. Nonetheless, Elbow Room certainly 
tried their hand at interior decorat­ing - fresh flowers were placed in 
Perrier bottles on each table, and a few paintings adorned the walls 
with wine and wildflower motifs 
and such. The color-your-own 
tablecloth idea is always an enter­
taining one, but the paper also 
served as a handy cover-up for a 
crumb-riddled eating space, as we 
discovered. It would have been 
helpful to have a few more crayon choices, too. I’m not asking for 
“burnt sienna” or anything overly 
exotic, but something more than 
crushed remnants of yellow would 
have been nice. Finally, there was a 
weird Porter Hall 100-esque effect 
going on above us, with random 
pipes lining the ceiling. I half­expected a puff of steam to burst 
forth at any moment, but fortunate­
ly Elbow Room’s miniature tunnel 
system was under better control than ours here at CMU.
What the restaurant may have
lacked in style, it by and large made 
up for in food. My chargrilled chicken breast was layered with feta cheese and salsa, a surprisingly appetizing combination that was 
served with a side of wild rice. One 
companion enjoyed a zesty chicken Caesar salad, which she found to be 
quite flavorful. Another friend sam­
pled the eggplant chicken salad, 
which prompted her to remark elo­
quently, “The spicy chicken has 
done wonders for my sinuses!” 
Portion sizes of entrees were more 
than adequate, although the salads 
tended to feature large, unwieldy 
chunks of lettuce and vegetables sliced into minuscule bites.
Coupled with the warm bread and super-sized butter packets I 
alluded to earlier, we were all regrettably full by the time the 
dessert menu was offered, and 
therefore passed on that option. Our check was delivered quickly 
and it almost felt as though we 
were being rushed to leave, 
although closing isn’t until 1 am on weekends. With full stomachs and 
strong headaches from the visual 
cornucopia of flowery wallpaper 
around us, we left Elbow Room and returned to our homes, a little bit 
wiser in the ways of eating, drink­
ing, and color-coordinated decorat­
ing styles. The furnishings might 
not turn any heads by Martha 
Stewart’s standards, but for a relax­
ing evening with close friends, 
good food, and excellent prices, Elbow Room can’t be beat.
Final Grade: B
Write for Tartan Entertainment!
contact tartan@andrew 
or
X8.2111
SLIPKNOT, from page B7 
new darlings of the music indus­
try. Which is funny because two 
years ago, the mainstream media 
really couldn’t have cared less 
about metal. When their main­
stream debut came out in ’98, 
also on Roadrunner, it definitely 
generated a buzz for the band, 
but nothing prepared the music 
world for what was to come. I 
personally saw the band hit the 
stage in Vancouver and steal the 
day from Fear Factory, the head­
liners, and pretty much everyone 
else save Slayer and Black 
Sabbath. Then, a year later, I saw 
them play the first date of Tattoo 
the Earth in Portland, and have 
everyone stay after Slayer’s set to 
watch them turn an old golf 
course into a dust bowl, with 
grass and arms flying every­
where. But there is much more to 
this band than their live shows 
and loyal following.
As I stated in the beginning, 
Slipknot is an interesting musical 
entity. Equal parts live show, 
image, and music, they possess the 
rock star persona that the music 
scene has been lacking and even 
tried to manufacture with other 
acts who shall remain nameless. 
Ironically, their image is one con­
structed from the notion that it is 
the music that mattered and not 
their appearance. So, they all 
donned bright orange jumpsuits 
and clown masks when they first 
hit the stage. But, their masks 
evolved and became more and 
more gruesome. This may have 
attracted more of an audience with 
teenage boys, but it would all be 
worthless if it weren’t for their 
music.
Their first album on Roadrunner 
was great, but it felt like it was only 
a beginning, a sampling of what 
the band was capable of writing. 
From the sing-along chorus of 
“Surfacing” and “Wait and Bleed,” 
you could tell that this was a band 
with the power to help bring metal 
back into the mainstream. But it 
also felt like they were holding 
back. They, in my opinion, sang 
too much instead of using the 
vocal power that their singer (#8, 
to further distance themselves
from their individual personalities, 
they re-named themselves #1 to 
#9) clearly possesses. The drums 
seemed under- used at times, 
although their tribal power came 
through in the aforementioned 
songs, and the riffs felt a bit 
rushed.
On “Iowa,” they step it up con­
siderably, but they’re not quite 
there yet. The riffs are huge 
(“People = Sh*t”) and the 
anthems are there (“The Heretic 
Song”), but what I see as the 
biggest change is the new death 
metal influence that permeates 
through the whole album. When 
pressing play for the first time, 
you might even think that you’re 
listening to the new Morbid 
Angel. The blastbeats pound you 
from the opening of the album,
“People = Sh*t,” and the sharp, 
growled vocals are there front 
and center. Even the atmospheric 
parts are cool, and feel like they 
belong and add to the song as a 
whole. In fact, “Gently” takes the 
soaring vocals and tribal drums 
that are part of the soundscape 
that a band like Neurosis creates, 
and gives it a spin of their own. 
“Everything Ends” is a perfect 
example of this new direction. It 
starts out heavy, and then breaks 
into the chorus with clean vocals, 
then breaks out the blastbeat 
drumming, and sinks back into 
the chorus, and then the growls 
come. There is a sense of chaos 
developing in each song, making 
the next direction unpredictable, 
but at the same time it feels like 
each song is contained in a much
larger, more global picture. In 
this sense, one might be led to 
believe that there is a guiding 
hand behind the album, and this 
may in fact be the case. Whether 
or not it is a concept album 
instead of just a collection of 
songs is in my opinion up to the 
listener. In any case, the album 
works as a whole with the stand­
outs being “The Heretic 
Anthem,” “I am Hated,” and the 
closer “Iowa,” a strange montage 
of guitar riffs, vocals, and demon­
ic voices. I still feel that there is 
room to grow for this band, and 
that there is much more in store 
from them.
Final Grade: A

---------------------------------------------------

Your hand is not a personal organizer.
More than just a personal organizer - with optional Springboard modules, 
you can turn Visor into a phone, an MP3 player or any number of handy devices.
Great student discount:
Visor Deluxe only $159.99 PLUS free case* ($49.95 value) with purchase. 
For a limited time and only at your school bookstore.
Springboard modules sold separately. Wireless service required for communication module(s).
Free case offer gcori only with the purchase of a Visor Deluxe bought July 15. 2001. through September 15.2001. at participation resellers: Receive bifckf leather case at register at time of purchase only while supplies last. Restrictions apply
)rhandspring'
© 2001 Handspring inc., Handspring. Springboard. VisorPhcne. Visor and the Handspring logo am trademarks oi Handspring, inc. MinUam™ MP3 player fiom imoGear, Inc. GPS Companion™ from Magellan Corp.
AnUK
better than using your hand.
hmziM
I4^’osor S'hio.M]on 
(s>c\\^cn AcryktS
cK 
tfOniCarne s$IM5
Qty.m.70
Gtry |.*c540% off
«¡4 *" 4U18
j»6 Tl/flf JI â<>oin I
l®lI tH tyiDu o;l*$19-95
- Cad red hv€
~ c*d yellow ht/6
-French
nìi/*\
60%wAfewf«o
prof* &>'**•! 
f.-n.t-y foryfrO 
¿> On I iobei
cga> 
fòp ©i /***€ 
acryUti
+iJ: sZ.wjy-tf:^ Vs
N I - —-------------- — — _T— - », IJ c/v 5<
: 69T<tririi SS
-Coupon- - - '
75^off ;
ale prue o^ y 
one co^ôisevr 
I /*QT UlCt^l N: ,l>,°L4r.i,V ' .«oil*-‘ i 75* a** Sa,c >• «*«-•» .’*?
prt<e l-V* ViTl^O ¿oc. i
( ejt^ f-a*/-ol/i _____5T*J/
' £AifMA»p [/¡h:ner; peFti/A
-TRV MAIMEK' Z1 / WAlBRcolotf I-
5r r „ ki »V «¦ i-li/ ?TfFAîRf ôAkiAêlO tf-rh :'»'II n»' iA c*io^¦¦5 *P?Ì I
TOP /V0TC .. -
i||f Seth Crc-c) Street Cadr ehv€
p,- f 1}bi>']h Pq./5’2l3 $!/*!.’/-S’
<A if ty!2'
In the new economy there's an even newer 
way to work. Set your sights on Shell 
and start a career that will allow you to 
work with the latest tools in a company 
that knows the value of technology and 
appreciates the input and dedication of its 
people. Shell takes pride in focusing on the 
future by investing its time and energy 
towards the protection of our environment 
and the prosperity of our employees.
So catch a new wave of thinking anc 
consider starting your career with Sh
Contact us today
Shell People Services - Americas
Ad Code: CM-01
P.O. Box 20329
Houston, TX 77225
E-mail: recruitment@shell.com
We will be conducting interviews 
for the following discipline. Stop 
by your Career Center to sign 
up today.
Engineering October 3 & 4
Thinking about a better future?
Shell Companies in the U.S. are equal opportunity employers. WWW.shell.COITI/careers
Only resumes of interest will be acknowledged.
I
Your hand is not a GPS.Your hand is not a cell phone.Your hand is not an MP3 player.

---------------------------------------------------

BioTHE TARTAN • OCTOBER 1,2001
ftA R TIAIN
guaranteed to enlarge your breasts
Geez. I do this for one week and they give me an 
award. At this rate, I won’t even have to try for 
world domination—it’ll just fall into my lap. So, who’s 
ready to submit to my will? I offer an attractive benefits 
package including free pizza and cookies for loyal service. 
Contact my assorted minions at dwindlehop@cmu.edu and 
give them hell. Give them hell, I say.
goatsh ttp://www. goats, com/
V'Jt'Rfc MATcHeD, yoyj 
Mo vi. 8Rou<i't4T' 
'Tc.cfe-rrie.R 
CosMic Fat£.$.
by Jonathan Rosenberg©"LDCityiNvMt*
||J6
X doJ't Kdovi. X -rue. 
5*4oU-P ¦£ 60 oo-r' / ¡*M<iiAtAey 
WirH Triis WoMAaì? I ¿t'ftc 3T f'É.ÉL UK£ 1 cc E^étA/^P ? E^TRAy»*^ h!ou_V
?
5He.'s. THEARNOn yoc> ctob e
ìrtAAói/slARy, |urne rb4 ,
EJAM/trtiT,\ Part I £ s vJira J
SH£'5 REAL .rt££? / 
..I-.... li/f
V/fr 1
f# pl=
sO
W^LJLé W/n^wfrir^ * T '
ffryrmww/Tg;i^/// 'f//r*r~~----
v/g* Sur 7 "MR. SAluffcÉS, 
¦That's I pug.as6 pass the&eSiP£S I St/^A« -To MRS. 
Foioi-r.A TewN &£A«~
5o vs/HAtS SfcTffc.«... £>ATW<sf 
A/si Av)A«cA 5c£- *VVPU<5MA^, OR 
PiiOi/Jc) fviz A/yJ Stafwrfief Co-ECd 
BrJó t Ì 5 H Wi>MA*J ?
Itf OrJL'f *T WeR& -THAT £ASy.
ii/e Mi?5eo rtotcy s® StaS 
The Past pew ^pajths. s doaj't tc^ov^
WHAT To PO.
Hi, yffvit**A? ud... A&ouT puw
vie. tisJTfcfc1U?PT youji R6c5i>LAKx)f 
scrt6.ouc€.o ^T<.«yU^É Po«.9r^<jeb^L£iiMi
warit@andrew.cmu.edu
— J w
p«?*** f : re\f«*%e i
„ _ .®*q7* 1 mUKm I IfoiHewisg.
Use +Ke T«ur+ar\ I(ill been 
CorMC* 4ir your o*»ft|fiSsina yon
p*r$on«\ r«««n)4 • I off U+ely ?

---------------------------------------------------

The Iron Monkfish
Metallic Debris ?!!
I hope nothing 
happened to the 
Nevada Colony ...WHy I* Dave E A
KEfc o*vouft HFAD7I7
PEREK, WHY'S THE if
What the hell is 
Gunther doing? 
Why are we 
moving so slow? 
We may be going 
through an 
asteroid belt, but.. 
this slow ?
V'KNOW WHO v
THE 1S-T \JOMH !ü
L Çwte VMS? j
VALENTINAJERESHKOVA
•Nl9fc3) AND SHE--
iac Uaccnvy So tk h
ANCrRy Tw you oTofth euwri
pVER-ANALYZE S:..
I think you're right. 
Hmmmm....
Hey Norton, why so slow?
There's an unusual amoust 
of metallic debris in this area.
FINGERS, I'VE TRIED 
EVERYTHING TO GET A GIRL - AND STILL 
NO LUCK.
Well, you know, one minute you're touching a supple, nubile young boy and the next minute you're in court with a $10 million lawsuit.
Don't you hate it when you think you're totally in the saddle but it turns out that you're really screwed instead?
What's wrong with tender young boys?You get the hell away from me!What do you mean?
I TRIED 
GROWING 
A BEARD.,FROG LEGS
Like Michael Jackson?
CAKE A LA JESUS ANYONE?
I EVEN TRIED 
LOOSENING UP MY APPEARENCE.The Phatmaster
http://phat.res.cmu.edu/phatmaster/
ROASTED MUPPET
How could this be, I thought to myself, when fully half of the natural numbers are even? But when I scoured the journals for a proof of this, I found none.DON'T BE DISCOURAGED JIMMY.
JUST THINK OF THIS QUOTE BY 
FORMER VICE PRESIDENT DAN QUALYE:erf
Cxree*2 [log2 nj
if log2 n 6 N 
2 (n - [log2 nj ) - 1 
otherwise
*PEOPLE THAT ARE REALLY VERY WEIRD 
CAN SET INTO SENSITIVE POSITIONS AND 
HAVE A TREMENDOUS IMPACT ON HISTORY.
»»fcìdei
Armed with this discovery, it was fairly trivial to write a nondeterministic factorizer guaranteed to terminate in polynomial time.'LESS THAN ZERO'Needless to say, my PhD from a prestegious non-accredited university arrived shortly.
bjj Kevin Burns
donxig (?) +hvgb ot. net!..........................
kThinUt flakesh*v>w... «of
sure. S0fYi« +l-M 
about those homS.
when we last scmj 
thugbot- he h&d 
Sighed a deal ahfly 
H\e Viörny stranger 
-to be +Ke spokesman 
for OlJe. English 
malt liquor...
'tfs i m satani
yfC yu$yun 2 a4yagC$ FM %TTF gll

---------------------------------------------------

,©2001 Jim Meddick/Dist. by NEA, Inc.
WWW.dilbert.COmscottadams@aol.comwww.dllbert.comscottadams@aol.com
www.corracs.com
www.oorrtcs.com
TjlHloi ©2001 United Feature Syndicate, Inc.0 2001 United Feature Syndicate, Inc.
©2001 Jim Meddick/Dist by NEA, Inc.
©2001 Jim Meddick /Dist by NEA. Inc.
comics.comcomics.com
>cnO
c,70r-gso
(An'
email: frylewis@flash.net
email: frylewis@flash.net
cn {2.muMiiI m
©2001 Jim Meddick/Dist. by NEA, Inc.
www.comics.com
ttili/fa 20u1 United Feature Syndicate, Inc; ¦ ¦¦¦¦¦.©2001 Jim Meddick/Dist by NEA, Inc.©2001^JimJ^eddjckJDisLjb^^JEAJ^TC^j^wwOTm»^^rarTi

---------------------------------------------------

- comics.com
m
------ c!535aRSpeS^JS gssj»
SlgS pgEg
^mfiìo ^oi§ -£88 |ffi-
email: frylewis@flash.net
dSsauAu
3^o3:
comics.com
S83$5 — IffiSSg
¦^So2C
-<755>
rse* 3z^-<^>>> ingmO
i- comlcs.comcomio.com:om |_
email: frylewis@flash.net
I 8SS33E5SSLCLjf^w
o
rt>
www.hedgewab.com
_
Otn J'-'i-yVg; £T]2C-oDmife7:
CT
<C3-a
o3-D
2.
"n
-j<c
&0
ft»
§
Irt>O.<oft>
B12 _______________________________________________________________ THE TARTAN » OCTOBER 1, 2001

---------------------------------------------------

i iwmm i TVVTMT AS pAPNPniF CSH H nw®LJiMl ! i Li l„„ i I I £lir\0 iZZVJHiZZ, l¥ii I 1 v /1M -
GREEK WEEK 2001
October 1-4
SCHEDULE OF EVENTS 
Monday
Opening Ceremonies 
7-8:30 p.m.
CFA Lawn
Tuesday
Greek Olympics 
6-7:00 p.m. 
CFA Lawn 
Order of Omega Open Mic Night 
9:00 p.m.
Skibo Coffeehouse
Wednesday
Fraternity Chef Cook-Off* 
5-7:00 p.m. 
Fraternity Quadrangle•
Sorority Powder Puff Football Game 
7:00 p.m.
CFA Lawn
Thursday
Greek Bachelor/ette Auction 
9:00-10:30 p.m.
CFAAIumni Concert Hall
Proceeds benefit the United Way September 
11 Fund and the American Red Cross
*Tickets $2, will be sold in front of Doherty Hall
Have any funny photos your own?
Send them to jdavin@andrew.cmu.edu and we will 
select the best photos to be printed somewhere 
in The Tartan each week.
Caption is optional and selection of photos 
is at the discretion of The Tartan.
Are heroes born? 
Or are they made?
Inside every child is a hidden strength, 
an unknown ability, a hero waiting to be 
discovered. In afterschool programs, kids get Involved in all 
kinds of activities - scholastic, athletic and creative. Activities 
that help them realize they have the potential to do better 
and reach further than they ever imagined. Because in the 
end, that's what makes a hero. Let us know you want 
afterschool programs in your area. Call 1-800-USA-LEARN.
- ^ i .»f Afterschool programs
Helping kids find the hero within.
www.afterschoofalliance.orgAMOTT POUNtJATSON

---------------------------------------------------

Calendar
I October 3001 THE TARTAN Page B14
monrtny, 10/'tuesdoy,
Greek Week. Show your Greek spirit and 
participate in the Greek events sponsored by 
the CMU fraternities and sororities this week. 
This is not to be mistaken for Geek Week. If 
you have pride in your letters, then come out 
and support.
RA/CA Applications Due. If you want 
to be a Resident or Community Assistant for 
next year, then your application is due this 
week. These are fun and rewarding campus 
jobs. For more information, call student life 
at x8-2142.
Naked. 11 am, at the Wood Street 
Galleries. This exhibit displays the nude body 
in contemporary art, video, and photography. 
Artists exhibiting include: Tina Barney, Anton Corbijn, Zhang Huan, Ma Liuming, Jaan 
Toomik, Spencer Tunick, Bruce Weber, 
Manabu Yamanaka. Spencer Tunick video col­
laboration with Chris Habid, and original 
music by Sonic Youth. This exhibit is free and 
open to the public. For more information, call 
(412) 471-5605.
Monday night Skate and Bike Tour. 7
pm, Astritech building, Second Avenue. This 
democratic skate is open to all. Email mon- 
day@skatepittsburgh.com for more info.
Student Body President Office Hours.
3:30 pm to 4:30 pm, the Underground. Talk 
with your Student Body President, Adam Harber, about any concerns you have about campus and student life. Come by with any 
comments or questions. For more information, 
email sbp@andrew.cmu.edu.
Senate General Body Meeting. Doherty 
Hall 1212, 7 pm. Come see what your Student 
Senate representatives are up to. For more 
information, email ss2p@andrew.cmu.edu.
Named Moe and the Pittsburgh Banjo Club will 
enlighten the James Street Tavern with their 
smooth sounds. There is the usual $5 cover 
charge. For more information, call (412) 323- 
2222.
hursday, 10,
Wednesday,
Pittsburgh Penguins.
Dr. Zoot and the Suits. 8:30 pm, Dowe’s 
on 9th. Dr. Zoot and the Suits provide great 
swing music and dancing for Pittburgh tonight. 
This is Pittsburgh’s premeire swing band. The 
cover is $6. Call (412) 281-9225.
Kelly Joe Phelps. 7:30 pm, at Rosebud. 
Kelly Phelps will perform on her acoustic slide 
guitar and sing original songs. Tickets are $12 
in advance and $14 at the door. Call (412) 
323-1919 for more information.
Pittsburgh Penguins. 7:30 pm, Mellon 
Arena. This is the season opener of the Pittsburgh Penguins season. If you liked the 
return, then don’t miss the sequel. Yes, that’s 
right, Super Mario is back again, minus Jagr, of 
course. The Pens take on the defending Stanley 
Cup champions, the Colorado Avalanche. 
Tickets start at $30, and go to http://www.pitts- 
burghpenguins.com for more information.
Five Guys Named Moe. 8 pm, at the James 
Street Tavern, on the North Side. Five Guys
Pittsburgh Pops. 8 pm, Heinz Hall. Marvin Hamlisch conducts the pops in an 
evening of Broadway spectacular. My Fair 
Lady, Joseph and the Technicolor Dreamcoat, 
and Phantom of the Opera will be featured. 
There will be actual Broadway stars singing 
too! Tickets start at $25, and student rush 
tickets are $15. You can pick up a ticket at the 
UC info desk for $10.
official voice of your curfew
come to the peace rally, it'll 
be huge
What does it do?
It makes a sound like 
thunder.
(Swirl your hands around 
your head like a Point 
Park 
theatre major)
AB Rocks, fred
That's just wrong
Do you like your Peter in a bo»?
Smell my weiner
WHY DO YOU AGGRAVATE YOURSELF BY ACTUALLY READING 
THOSE EMAILS?
I'll have the 
manly house salad 
with balsamic 
vinigarette.
I'll have the BIG 
ASS brownie.
/ GET MY DISABILITY CHECK AND 
POW, IT’S DOWN TO PANTS (N NAT
I'M PRACTICALLY PERFECT IN EVERY WAY
I’m saving the 
world
F*** this, let’s go to Canada.HEARTY POTATO SOUP (in a 
manly voice)
o()b) lsee r) Rnb)
ryouT uhtoosod noSigfdo
HAHAHAHAHAHA: This is a note to the editor, some of us 
have extremely shallow lives and spend the six days of the week that 
there is no newspaper waiting for monday and vox populi. The least 
you could do is have fresh material and not repeat vox pop entries 
from last year three weeks in a row. Clean out the vox pop cache 
right now, delete all those messages in there so we can have a clean 
slate for next week. Most of those are repeats from last year 
dammit! I expected more from the CMU newspaper, I thought T was 
reading the PittNews for a second. Please put fresh vox populi in 
next week.
I had fun tonight but I just 
need to kill some people.
AND THY BANNER OF 
TRUTH, PROUDLY FLY
Vox Populi is a forum open to the entire campus community! To sub­
mit a vox, simply email it to tiruin@amirmcmu.ediu send it to The 
Tartan, University Center, Box 17 via campus mail. The comments in 
this box do not reflect the views of The Tartan or anybody in gener­
al. It is basically a bunch of gibberish, and if anything sounds remote­
ly real or interesting, then you’re reading way too much into it. You 
know what? If you’re reading this then you should buy a book-1 sug­
gest something by Charles Dickens. That’ll keep you real busy...:)
Do you have an event you 
would like to publicize in 
The Tartan Calendar? It’s 
free!
Send information to 
tartan@andrew. emu. edu.
h4igsl obbfbTn B adb lwyd N4dbTrm EwigTPu
October. It’s when the leaves change, football season 
gets underway, and your parents come to campus. 
Unfortunately, this may cramp your debaucherous 
style for a weekend, but it’s your parents! Spend the 
weekend with them, on campus, and in Pittsburgh. 
Show them what CMU pride is all about.
Broadway Bound with Marvin Hamlisch. Pittsburgh 
Pops conductor Marvin Hamlisch will lead the orchestra in a 
night of Broadway spectacular. Tunes from Miss Saigon, M y 
Fair Lady, Phantom of the Opera, and many other shows will 
be featured. Shows for family weekend are Friday and 
Saturday, at 8 pm at Heinz Hall. Regular tickets start at $25, 
and student rush tickes are $15. Visit http: //www .pitts- 
bur ghsymphony .or g for more information.
Pittsburgh Penguins. Catch the Mario sequel! The 
Pittsburgh Penguins skate with The Mighty Ducks of Anaheim 
on Saturday. The puck drops at 7:30 pm, at Mellon Arena. 
Regular tickets start at $30, and student rush tickets are $20. 
Visit http ://www .pittsburghpenguins .com for more information.
Les Miserables: In Concert. The students of the School of 
Drama are presenting an abridged version of Les Miserables: 
In Concert. Alumni Concert Hall will stage the production, 
and it will be at 8 pm on Saturday and 2 pm on Sunday. 
There is a suggested donation of $5.
file photo
Saturday, 10 ¡è
Six Feet Under. 3 pm, at Club Laga. 
Metallenium Tour, with Candiría, Soilent 
Green, Lamb of God, God Forbid, and Darkest Hour. With their horror-themed hard rock, 
Six Feet Under brings death metal to new, groove based territory. For those not into 
metal, Candiría, who infuse elements of jazz 
and hip hop into searing metal worth the price 
of admission alone. All Tartans who are into 
metal, then this show is definitely for you. 
Tickets are $23 in advance, and $25 at the 
door. You can get tickets at Kauffmann’s, Club 
Laga, Giant Eagle, and M. For more informa­
tion, call (412) 323-1919.
Heavy Metal 2000. 8 pm, 10 pm, 12 pm,
at McConomy Auditorium. This animated 
film will be shown in the usual fashion. It fea­
tures lots of violence and gore. This event is 
$1 for CMU students and $3 for others. It is 
sponsored by AB. Email ab@andrew.cmu.edu 
for more information.
Carnegie Mellon University Men’s 
Soccer. 11 am, at Gesling Stadium. Our own 
Tartans will be facing the University or 
Rochester at home, in time for Parent’s Weekend. Come out and support your class­
mates and hall mates. Cheer on the soccer 
team to a winning season. Admission is free 
with a CMU ID.
Blast! 1 pm, 6:30 pm, Benedum Center. 
This glorified drum corps will present their 
Tony Award winning show. Their pageantry 
and pizazz are unprecedented. Tickets start at 
$37. Call (412) 456-6666 for more informa­
tion.
