3Thc Cawedie ^Tartan
Men must be at liberty to 
say in print whatever they 
have a mind to say, pro­
vided it wrongs no one.
—CHARLES A. DANA
VOL. 28, No. 4CARNEGIE INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY, PITTSBURGH, PA.TUESDAY, OCTOBER 18, 1932
li li tar y Ball 
Vili Be Held 
November 10
jonsored By Scabbard 
And Blade, Military 
Honorary Frat 
PPOINT LARRY F. 
ICKSON CHAIRMAN
SUMMER DIRECTOR
dl Considered One Of The 
Largest Social Events 
Of School Year
Larry P. Dickson, '33, has been 
»pointed chairman of the cominit- 
i in charge of the Military Ball 
iich will be held 011 November 
in Thistle Hall. Mr/ Dickson 
v. 1 be assisted by William C. 
¦azarus '33, William Councill ’33, 
id Donald M. McClain '33. This 
iimmittee was announced last 
¦uesday at the meeting of Scab- 
ard and Blade, national military 
¦»norary fraternity, sponsors of 
e ball.
Mr. Diclcson, a senior in the Col- 
et,} of Engineering, is a partici- 
jant in numerous activities. 1-Ie is 
he head cheerleader, varsity man- 
ger of tennis, freshman manager 
it swimming, a member of the 
varsity rifle team, and a member 
of the Sigma Nu social fraternity 
ind Scabbard and Blade, honorary 
’raternity.
The fall military formal Is con­
sidered one of the largest social „unctions on the Carnegie Campus and all efforts are being made on he part of the committee to make his year’s ball a success. Although )lans are still in an embryonic itage, the student body is assured chat a first-class orchestra will be sngaged to furnish the music, and that Thistle Hall will assume a de­cidedly military aspect.
—Trinits' Court Studio. 
PROF. ROBERT B. LEIGHOU 
Head of the Department of In­
dustrial Science and associate di­rector of the Night School Courses, who has been appointed director of. the Summer Session by Dr. Thomas S. Baker.
Anoni Club Shows 
Student Paintings
The Anoni Club will present an exhibition of paintings in the Ex­hibition Room of the College of Fine Arts, beginning tomorrow. The Anoni Club is an organization founded for the purpose of pre­senting for public inspection, stu­dent paintings which are not in connection with any school prob­lem. The club is independent of the school, although a majority of its members are students at Carne­gie. The officers are Lorin H. Thompson, president, and James D. Demarchi, secretary.
Paintings may be submitted by any student in the Department of Painting and Decorating. A jury consisting of two faculty members, Prof. Russell T. Hyde and Mr. Samuel Rosenberg, and two stu­dents, Lorin H. Thompson and James D. Demarchi, will pass judgment on the paintings and se­lect those to be exhibited. At the conclusion of the exhibit, an­other jury, as yet unnamed, will choose the outstanding pieces of work; these will be sent on a traveling exhibit. A press view was held Monday, October 17.The Anoni Club has done much to promote the Depression Art Show on the lawn of the Hotel Schenley.
Dr. Baker Appoints Prof. Leighou 
New Director Of Summer Session
Drama Dept. 
Will Present 
One-Act Plays
Inaugurates Series Of 
Fifteen Scheduled 
Programs 
STUDENT ADMISSION 
TICKETS NOT NEEDED
Assembly To 
Be Held On 
October 25
Speakers Planned By 
Delta Skull, Junior 
Class Honorary 
PROGRAM WILL BE 
HELD IN MUSIC HALL
Dr. Ihrig, Former Director, 
Will Remain Head Of 
Night School Courses
Dr. Warner, 
Ylr. Flowers 
jive Report
’resent Discoveries At 
Chemist’s Meeling 
In Cleveland
Dr. J. C. Warner, assistant pro- ¡088,01’ of Chemistry, and Mr. Leon- ird C. Flowers, instructor in draw- ng and descriptive geometry, rep­resented Carnegie at a recent meeting of the Electro-chemical pocioty held at Cleveland, Ohio, 
September 23, where they dis­closed discoveries made as a result of extensive experimentation with nickel plating solutions.Nickel plating solutions are vital to the industrial world today, be­
cause they are used to build up a base for chromium plate. Plated cliromium, possesing a highly polished metallic luster and a high resistance to corrosion, is used for motor car trimmings, domestic utensils, golf clubs, and other articles in common use. It was found that the nickel-plate under­coating eliminated porousity, which 
had caused the chromium plate to scale off.
It has been the practise in the nickel plating industry to conduct the plating process in a cold, slightly acid solution, using a low current density. The results were satisfactory, but slow. With -the ever-increasing demand for chro­mium plate, the necessity for a speedier process became evident.Dr. Warner and Mr. Flowers are experimenting at the present time with a solution in which the acid­ity has been increased. This solu­
tion, was developed in the Gen­eral Motorss laboratories by a scientist there. However it can not be used in the plating of deep orevices.In the Carnegie investigation it 
•as found that when a high tem- srature, about 50 degrees was com- -ed with a high current density, throwing power of the solu- was greatly increased..t the present time, Dr. Warner Mr. Flowers are directing r investigation toward an in- use in the throwing power of plating solution now in use, introducing it into other sub- nces.
By MIRIAM T. MALAKOFF
Professor Robert B. Leighou, 
head of the Department of Indus­
trial Science at Carnegie, has 
been appointed director of the 
Summer Session by Dr. Thomas 
S. Baker to succeed Dr. Roscoe M. 
Ihrig, Dean of Freshmen in the 
Colleges of Engineering and In­
dustries. The appointment is ef­
fective immediately, and Professor 
Leighou will assume full charge 
of the Summer Session next year.
In 1907, one year after he had 
graduated from Bucknell Univer­sity with the degree of bachelor of science, Professor Leighou join­ed the teaching staff of Carnegie as an instructor of chemistry. In 1909 lie was appointed head in­structor, and 1910, assistant pro­fessor. Since 1917, when lie re­ceived the degree of master of science at Bucknell^ lie 1ms been head of the Department of Indus­trial Science and associate director of the Night School Courses. He received a professorship in 1921, and in 192(5 the position of asso­ciate director of Summer School Courses and head -or the Depart­ment of Night School Promotion.
As associate director of the night school courses, Professor Leighou took charge of publicity and acted as a liason officer between Car­negie and various industrial firms in the Pittsburgh district. As As­sociate Director of the Summer 
Session he had charge of adminis­tration of the summer courses.Professor Leighou has had sev­
eral books published since 1917, when he wrote the “Chemistry of Engineering Ma­
terials,” a college text book which is in use at Carnegie. Two 
editions of this text have been issued since, the first in 1925 and the second in 1931. I11 1922 liewrote a section 011 “Chemistry and Metallurgy” for Dibble’s “Handbook for Plumbers;” and in 1927, lie completed the “Chemistry of Printing Inks.”Dr. Ihrig will remain director of Night School Courses. He joined the teaching staff of Carnegie in 1915 as a member of the Depart­ment of Modern Languages, and was appointed head of the Depart­ment . of Modern Languages when the Division of General Studies was formed in 191S.In 1926, upon the resignation of Director Day, he became Director of the Division of General Studies.
Guild Actress 
Prefers Tech 
Drama Course
U.T.A. To Hear 
Prof. Gustafson
Changes Made In 
Assembly Schedule
Several changes in the as- lembly schedule for the first emcster 1932-33 have been inde to better fit the events ! the season. The changes re:
October 25 — General Assem- y instead of Chapel.
November 1—Chapel instead r Assembly.
November S — Separate Col­go Assemblies and Freshman ssembly instead of Chapel. 
November 15—Chapel instead f Separate College Assemblies.
Prof. David Gustafson, head of the Department of Printing, is in Cincinnati for the purpose of ad­dressing the Forty-sixth Annual Convention of the United Ty- potlietae of America, which opened there yesterday and will continue until Thursday.. His subject, “Five Years of the Typotlietae Foundation at Carnegie Institute of Technology,” will summarize the progress in (he Department o£ Printing at Carnegie,The United Typotlietae of Amer­ica has contributed $22,500 a year to Carnegie as the only American college giving instruction in print­ing. Professor Gustafson will show that the enrollment of print­ing students for the past five years has been approximately twice that of the preceding five year period. The average number of graduates from the department for the years 1927-1932 has grown from 5.0 to 19.2 per year.Among the other speakers at the convention is Mr. Fred J. Hartman, Director of Education of the United Typotlietae, who was a merhber of the administrative and teaching staffs at Carnegie for a number of years. The production session will be under the direction of William D. Hall ’21, a gradu­ate of the Department of Printing.
Drama Dept. Entertains 
Nixon Players And 
New Students
By ROY Ml NET
“I'd love to. be a student here in your Drama Department!” said 
Miss Helen Flint, one of the stars in the Theater Guild’s production, “The Pure in Heart,” which played at the Nixon last week. “If only I 
could spare the four years from my professional career. To me, it’s so wonderful that your stu­
dents are made to study every phase of the theatrical business. 
You see, so much is lost by those who start out professionally— 
which I did through the Ziegfield Follies and then in stock—because 
they never have the opportunity or the time to get the broad train­
ing you give here. There are so many interesting things to know about electricity, and lighting, 
and scene designing, and costume making, and directing—so many 
things that are really a part of the theater and which add so much to an actor’s understanding. Then, too, I’d like to write, and I’d like 
to be in a school atmosphere.
“And you have the most fascin­
ating group of students. I could just feel their enthusiasm! Witn 
such a love of the theater, and with such a charming and beauti­ful atmosphere in which to work— well, they certainly ought to be 
successful.
“Your lovely Little Theater, why just peeping into it made me want to dash right up onto-the 
platform and do a monologue! And I’m positively envious of the mar* velous costumes you have in the Poel and in the Mansfield collec­tions.”Miss Flint and eight other prom­
inent members of the Guild com­pany were guests at a . reception 
and tea given in the College of Fine Arts at 4:30 on Friday after­noon for the new students in the Department of Drama. Over a hundred persons—guests, faculty .members, and students—enjoyed 
the intimate atmosphere created by curtaining the windows in the Round-Table Room and lighting it only with tall candles. Tea, sand­wiches, cookies, cakes, and mints were served, thereby adding the 
final element to one of the most successful and most enjoyable so­cial affairs ever held T>y the depart­ment. It is reported that other similar social events will be held 
throughout the year, not only to provide entertainment, but to af­
ford drama students the opportu­nities for becoming acquainted in professional circles and with pro­fessional viewpoints.Edward F. Kelly and Mary Ham­ilton, president and secretary of 
the Department of Drama, respec­tively, were in charge of arrange­ments. Miss Elizabeth M. Schra­der, Instructor in Stage .Costume, 
acted as hostess. The reception 
committee was composed of Janet W. Feather, Mary E. Rowles, Janet 
Patrick, Eloise M. Campbell, BoydS. Crawford, John M. Wilkoff, Ray­
mond M. Neyhart, George A. Mc- Calmon, and William G. Beal. The refreshments were prepared by Marcia E. Leety, Dorothy Neu­
mann, Patti Littell, Viola Sayles, Vernon Crane, Robert H. Gill, and Edward J. Palkot.
Studio Performances Will Be 
Organized And Supervised 
By Directors
By ROY MINET
Presenting a bill of three one- act plays in its Studio Theater in the Union at 3:30 Friday after­noon, the Department of Drama in­
augurates a series of fifteen scheduled programs which will 
provide Carnegie 1 students and other interested persons .with ail unusual opportunity to see the pro­
ductions of nearly sixty one-act 
plays. Tickets are not required for admission.
Professor Hickman, who is su­pervising Friday’s program, has se­lected Maraine Hay thorn to direct Janet W. Feather, John G. Daw­son, and Barry Mulligan in a com­edy; Edward F. Kelly to direct Mary E. Rowles, William G. Behrse, Robert H. Gill, Donald J. Gallagher, and Edward J. Palkot in a tragedy; and Jean Dahl to di­rect Audrey L. Kelley, I. Jean Cowan, William G. Beal, Edward V. I-Iarmle, and William G. Bales in a farce.
In using a secondary stage. Carnegie is in step with the lead­
ers among schools and theaters everywhere. Russia’s prominent 
Moscow Art Theater, the famous Abbey'Theater of Dublin, our own Yale Theater, Pasadena Playhouse, and Goodman Theater use a sim­ilar arrangement for experimental productions.
During the past twenty years many great one-act plays have been written. This shorter drama is an independent art form, worth while and enduring in itself; yet in the professional field it is used very infrequently. Twenty-five years ago it was the custon in Lon­don to use a one-act play as a 
“curtain raiser,” but even this prac­tice lias died out. As a conse­quence, the performances of these modern one-act plays in the little theater on the top floor of the Ad­ministration Building will be especially important and signif­icant.
Each studio performance will be organized and supervised by a faculty director, but all produc­tions will be essentially informal and without elaborate settings. Through these matinees, student directors working under the su­pervision of Professors Chester M. Wallace and E. W. Hickman will 
secure practice in the staging of plays, student actors will gain valuable training, and student stage managers will secure additional technical experience.
Robert L. Maurer To Play 
An Unusual Instrument 
Called A Theremin
THISTLE CALLS FRESHMEN
Candidates for the advertising staff on the Thistle are asked to leave their names with the mana­ger at the Y. M. C. A. office this week. Activity keys, commission and a chance for a major position on the staff are the rewards of staff work.
Tau Beta Pi Holds 
National Convention
The annual convention of Tau Beta Pi, national engineering honorary fraternity, was held at Washington, D. C., on October 13, 14, and 15. William J. Burns ’33, a student in the Department of Mechanical Engineering, attended the convention as a delegate of the local chapter. Discussing and vot­ing on the petitions of the Univer­sity of Southern California and Marquette University was one of the main issues before the conven­ing engineers. Much business of interest to the local chapters and to engineers in general was also discussed.
Tartan To Sponsor Straw 
Vote; Students And Faculty 
Will Ballot In Classrooms
By LAWRENCE C. CARD
The next general assembly which 
is under the direction of Delta 
Skull, junior class honorary, is to 
be held at the Carnegie Music 
Hall on Tuesday, October 25, the 
date having been changed from 
November 1 on account of the 
Tartan Presidential Poll.
The program, which is under the 
i supervision of a committee con­
sisting of Samuel C. Wicks, chair­
man; Charles F. Slater, Charles E. Davis, and Libbus Lewis, is to be 
quite extensive, consisting of a 
speaker and musical entertain­
ment.
The committee is trying to ob­
tain a prominent political writer 
from one of the Pittsburgh daily 
papers who will talk on the presi­
dential platforms of the Republi­
can, Democrat, and Socialist par­
ties. The purpose of the talk is 
to set forth the aims of the parties 
in a non-partisan manner in or­
der that students may cast a se­
rious, unbiased vote at the Tartan 
Poll which is to be held on Wed­
nesday, October 26.
The musical entertainment will 
be furnished by Robert L. Maurer 
of the Department of Drama, who 
plays a theremin, an instrument 
known as the electro-voice. (Mr. 
Maurer will be accompanied by 
Mr. Edward H. Jolie, who is an 
outstanding organist in the music 
department.) Mr. Maurer has had a great deal of experience playing the theremin and claims the inter­collegiate championship. He has played with prominent dance or­chestras in Cleveland and broad- cast with the Rennselaer Sym­phony. Orchestra over WHAE, Troy, New York.The theremin, as an instrument, is very interesting because it. has 
no visible means of producing music such as keys or strings. It is ac­tuated by moving the liiinds at varying distances from two metal rods. One hand controls the vol­ume of the sound and the other produces the pitch but neither touches the instrument. There are about two hundred and fifty 
llieremins but only a few are act­ually in use.
Plan Fourth 
Football Hop 
For Saturday
Notre Dame-Carnegie 
Affair To Feature 
Will Ryslianek
By CLIFF CARR
The -Football Dance Committee 
has chosen Will Ryslianek and his 
KDKA N. B. C. Orchestra to pay 
next Saturday evening at the No­
tre Dame-Carnegie Football Dance. 
This is the season’s fourth football 
social event and it will be held as 
usual in Thistle Hall from 9 to 12 
o’clock. Ryshanek is well known 
as having played at the Freshmen 
Reception, the first football dance 
and the second tea dance’s this 
year. The regular charge of $1.00 
will be made.
The score of the Notre Dame 
game will be announced at the 
dance for the benefit of anyone 
who might not have heard the out­
come of the afternoon’s contest at 
South Bend.
Something new in the way of 
entertainment will be provided l'or 
the chaperones at this dance. Ar­
rangements have been made to 
have card tables placed in the 
foyer for their use.
Kenyon Will Deliver 
Radio Talk Tomorroiv
Professor Kenyon, head of the Department of Drama, will deliver the second talk of the new “Pitts­burgh Today” series over radio station KQV on Wednesday even­ing at 9:00. His subject, “The Values of Community Drama,” will be centered in the work of the Department of Drama at Carnegie and its function in supplying, along with training for its students, the “Little Theater” influence in Pitts­burgh.These broadcasts, presented once each month until May, will 
feature persons prominent on the Carnegie campus.
THE SURROUNDING WORLD
By JOE ADAMS
As election day draws nearer we find nearly every one of political importance either making a speech or taking a poll. Accord­ing to the Literary Digest Poll and the Hearst Poll, Roosevelt is lead­ing by a small, yet comfortable margin. However, not enough 
time has elapsed since Hoover’s first campaign speech to see its effect on these straw votes. An­other thing to be taken into con­sideration is the fact that a great number of Hoover supporters can not be reached through the above mentioned mediums. In a great many states where Roosevelt has been winning a majority of straw votes the Republican registration has been leading that of the Demo­crats at the pools. As things stand at the present it is still any­body’s election.A great many interesting let­ters are received by the con­ductors of straw votes, most of which seem to indicate* that the individual is more interested this year in his welfare than in the balljdioo of political speakers. As a result of this, I again predict the following: a large spite or protest vote for Norman Thomas, who is leading the minor candidates by a large margin; a decline in the total balloting due to poll taxes in many states; and general disgust at the major party platforms by 110 small number of individuals.While on the way to Cleveland to make a campaign address last
Saturday, Herbert Hoover made eight platform speeches. He seems to have forgotten that his per­sonal campaign was to be limited to three speeches. No doubt the extreme exuberance of FranklinD. Roosevelt, the candidate who seemss to be riding pretty far on a big smile, has thrown a scare into the sedate occupant of the White House. Perhaps the unem­ployment situation has become so tense that Hoover looks toward 
November 8 with little ease of mind.Out in the middle west, where all that the farmers have left is a mail order catalogue and a vote, Odgen Mills is taking care of that vote by tearing Roosevelt’s
speeches and promises to pieces. In fact he is doing such a good 
job that Franklin D. himself is go­ing to make another trip into this territory which has recently and effectively been injected with a strong dose of Republicanism.Hanford McNider, who was a contender for the Republican nom­ination, is doing his share in mak- this his fellow legionnaires lean toward Hoover. On the other hand Roosevelt's allies have been banding together. The Democratic New' York State convention forced A1 Smith to shift his support to Roosevelt rather than split the party. The Democrats hailed this reconciliation as significant as did 
the Republicans the endorsement 
(Continued on Page Four)
Freshmen Vote In 
All Schools Today
Freshman elections will be held from 11:30 until 1:30 to­day, in the colleges of Engi­
neering and Industries, Mar- Morrison, and the College of Fine Arts.
A special election will take place in Margaret Morrison to choose the senior class repre­sentative to Student Council and three assistant secretaries for the junior class.The freshmen of each college will elect a president, secretary, and treasurer. The presiden­tial candidate polling second highest number of votes will be declared vice president.Members of Student Council will preside at the polls.
Metallurgists 
Will Meet In 
Union, Oct. 28
Students Interested In 
Sessions May Attend 
Free Of Charge
Sorority Rushing 
Will Begin With 
Tea On Oct. 28
Sorority rushing will be formal­
ly opened on Friday, October 12, at 
a tea sponsored by Intersorority 
Council at 4:30 in . the exhibit 
room, College of Fine Arts. All 
freshmen and transfers who are 
working for a degree of bachelor 
of arts are urged to attend. Un­
der the rushing rules for 1932-1933, 
rushees may be invited but not 
escorted to the tea by members 
of sororities.
The rushing season will last 
from Friday, October 21, to Sun­
day November 7, at midnight. 
During this time each sorority will give four functions. No sor­ority may hold a party on the night of another sorority’s major event. 
Rushing is prohibited by a soror­ity as a group until after the In­tersorority tea.
A "silence period” of three days beginning at midnight on Sunday 
evening, November 7, and ending at 4:30 on Wednesday afternoon, 
November 10, will terminate the 
rushing season. The sororities write bids to the girls they wish to pledge. If a bid is not answered by the rusliee before 4:30 on Wed­nesday, November 10, it will not be accepted until -the end of a two- 
month period. During the period of silence there shall be no com­munication of any kind between 
rusliee and sorority members.Intersorority Council is com­
posed of the four recognized social sororities on the Carnegie camp­us. Tligse are: Alpha Kappa Psi,
Gamma Gamma Gamma, Beta Pij and Beta Tau Lambda.Evelyn Gamble ’34, a member of 
Beta Tau Lambda, is chairman of 
the committee for the Intersorority tea. The members of her commit­tee are: Margaret Varner ’35,Alpha Kappa Psi; Betty J. O’Toole 
’35, Beta Tau Lambda; Olive M. Roberts ’35, Beta Pi; and L. Lou­ise McCain ’34, Gamma Gamma Gamma.
Y. M. C. A. Plans 
Week-end Outing
This year the Y. M. C. A. is.ar­
ranging another week-end trip to 
Cook’s Forest on either the last 
Saturday in October or the first 
Saturday in November. Mr. Allen 
Risedorph is the chairman of the 
faculty committee of management 
and John Sayles is chairman of 
the program committee.
The group will leave Pittsburgh on Saturday morning and will ar­rive at the forest at 110011. They plan to leave there on Sunday aft­ernoon in order that they will be in Pittsburgh Sunday evening. • This retreat at Cook’s Forest was proposed after consideration was given to the successful trip last year.The committee in charge has ar­ranged a good program and it is therefore hoped that a large num­ber of “Y” members will be 
present.
The annual open meeting of the Metallurgical. Advisory Board will be held in the Carnegie Union on Friday, October 28. At the morn­ing session reports of studies made by the Bureau of Metallurgical Research will be given as follows: “Transformations of the Binary 
Iron Manganese Alloys” by Dr. Walters:" “The Effect of Carbon on Ten Per Cent Iron Manganese Alloys” by Dr. Krivobok and Dr Eckel; Dr. Krivobok will also re­port on three phases of his study of Chrome-Nickel-Iron Alloys; “The Segregation of Ferrite 'and Cementite from Austenite” by Dr. Melil, Dr. Barrett and Dr. D. W. Smith; The study was begun at. the Naval Research Laboratory at Washington under Dr. Mehl’s di­rection and was completed at Car­negie.
At the afternoon session reports will be made of the work done by Dr. C. H. Herty and his assistants who are working under the aus­pices of the Metallurgical Advisory Board, 011 the following subjects "The Deoxidation of Steel with Manganese, Aluminum, Silicon Al­loys,” "The Effect of Deoxidation and Furnace Manipulation Some Physical Properties of Open Hearth Steel.” and "The Use of 
Manganese, Silicon Alloys in the Open Hearth Process.” Two new bulletins will be distributed at the 
meeting: "Physical Chemistry oCSteel Making," "Deoxidation of Open Hearth Steel with Man- ganese-Silicon Alloys,” and "The Transverse Impact Strength of (Continued on Page Foiir)
Ryshanek To Play 
For Cwen Dance
Cooperation By Faculty 
Insures Maximum 
Student Vote
VARIED RESULTS ARE 
SEEN IN OTHER POLLS
Delta Skulls Plan Assembly 
To Be Addressed By 
Political Writer
Will Ryshanek and his National Broadcasting Chain Orchestra will furnish the music for the tea dance which is being held by Cwens, sophomore women’s honor­ary, tomorrow, in Thistle Hall from
4 to 6.
The Cwens from the University of Pittsburgh will be guests of the Carnegie Chapter. In this way the girls from both colleges will be 
given an opportunity to become ac­quainted.A single admission of twenty- five cents will be charged, and tickets may be purchased from any member of Cwens or Delta.Skull. It is hoped that the change in price will make it possible for more npperclassmen as well as freshmen to attend. The fresh­men are not required to adhere to their regulations at such social 
functions.
Women’s Puppet Staff 
Will Meet Thursday
A meeting of the women’s lit­
erary staff of the Carnegie Puppet will be held in Margaret Morrison Assembly Hall at 4:30 Thursday afternoon. Rosemary Saxton, Women's Editor, will be in charge. Present contributors trom Margaret Morrison and the College of Fine Arts are asked to attend in order to become ac­quainted with the staff. Fresh­
man girls interested in humorous writing are urged to be present in order that they may learn the type of contributions desired by 
the Puppet.The positions of Women’s Editor 
and Literary Editor are offered to girls who have done creditable work on the magazine and Puppet keys are awarded for a year’s work. The regular silver and gold 
activities keys are also won through work on the Puppet.
By JOE ADAMS
Inasmuch as interest in the com­
ing Presidential election has been 
running high at Carnegie, the Tar­
tan has decided to sponsor a straw 
vote among the students and fac­
ulty. The poll will be held on 
Wednesday, October 26, in the 
class rooms during the 9:30-10:30 
hour in co-operation with the ad­
ministration. That hour was se­
lected as the majority of the stu­dents are in classes at that time. By means of the class room poll a large percentage of the students and faculty will vote and thereby allow an accurate reckoning of which presidential candidate Car­negie leans toward. The ballots will not only record the name of the candidate preferred but also the sex and college of the voter. The results will be printed the fol­lowing week.In conjunction with the straw vote, Delta Skull plans an assem­bly on Tuesday, October 25, the day before the poll, which will he 
addressed by one of the major po­litical writers in the Pittsburgh district. It is hoped that many of the students will avail themselves of the opportunity to hear a clear- 
cut summary of the political situ­ation before they vote. A definite
Roosevelt Speaks 
At Forbes Field
Franklin D. Roosevelt, the Democratic candidate for Pres- ¡dent, will make one of the major speeches of his second campaign tour before a mass meeling at Forbes Field to­morrow night. His Penn­sylvania campaign headquart­ers have not announced the subject of the speech, but re* port that he will not speak about the1 bonus.
Norman Thomas, Socialist nominee for President, will speak in the Carnegie Music Hall on Monday, October 24. This meeting is a part of the nation-wide speaking tour being made by the candidate.
announcement of the speaker and the place of the assembly will be posted 011 the bulletin boards it’ the plans are completed.Straw votes taken at other col­leges indicate many interesting items. At. Antioch College, in Ohio, Norman Thomas polled the greatest number of votes, leading Hoover by three ballots and al­
most trebling the vote alloted to Roosevelt, while at University of Pittsburgh, in a poll taken during registration, Roosevelt led by a large majority. The Literary Di­gest poll, which is not yet com­plete, showed that Roosevelt start­ed out with a large lead but Hoov­er has been gradually gaining on him during the last few weeks. The Hearst Newspaper Poll has been showing results which differ very little from those of the Lit­erary Digest. Since all of these straw votes were taken before the Hoover campaign was fully under way no estimate can be made from them of the possible outcome o£ the Tartan Poll.
Art Students Enter 
Beaux Arts Contest
Eight students from the Depart­ment of Sculpture have completed trials for this semester’s first Beaux Arts Institute of Design problem. These problems, clay sketches of synagogue doors, will be judged on November 7 at the Beaux Arts Institute of Design in New York City.The students who submitted de­
signs are Olga Ravitcli, Katherine McSwigan, Helen Meigs, Helen M. Edmundson, Dorothy H. George, Rosemary Saxton, Ruth E. Me- Bane, and James Sansonettl.
COMING EVENTS
Tuesday, Class election» in all colleges, 11:30 to 1:30.
Wednesday, Cwen Tea Dance, Thistle Hall, 4 to 6. Will Rysha­
nek and IIis Orchestra.
Thursday, Telcnon Supper meet­ing, Shadyside Presbyterian Church, 6 o’clock.
Friday, Intersorority tea, College of Fine Arts, 4:30 to 6:00.
Saturday, Notre Dame football 
dance, Thistle Hall, 9 to 12.

---------------------------------------------------

2THE CARNEGIE TARTAN, TUESDAY, OCTOBER 18, 1932
Plebes Lose 
Tough Battle 
To Pitt, 12-0
Tartan Errors Prove 
Costly; Spisak And 
Schmidt Star
Fighting Wash-Jeff Team
Holds Plaid To A 6-6 Tie
Women’s Athletics by Gloria KloosCha
ngesM dnIACd dmAaab
Bowling, the cannon-ball sport 
oC Carnegie Coeds, is set to open 
its season at the Murray-Beacon 
Alleys next week. W. A. A. pays 
for the use of the alleys and a cer­
tain number of lines, so that the alleys are open to any member of the association. Special rules con­cerning the use of a specific num­ber of lines to be used have been made. Unless you want to set up your own pins for the tourna­ments don’t use any extra lines now. The trudge up to the alleys only takes , about twenty minutes, and if you walk fast enough you’ll get your second wind just in time to play. Monnie Watters is man­aging the sport this year and she will give you all the instruction you need.
Hockey continues to reign over all the other sports in the number of fans it has attracted. Last year the Carnegie team played two games with Pitt. If the same ar­rangement is made this year we
ought not to have any trouble i winning both of them.
Archery has lost somewhat In i attendance. Formerly it w; counted as one of the most popul; sports on the campus, and rival: over scores was always high. T1 
freshmen have failed to reali how much real fun they can hai while piling up points towart their numerals. One hundrc points is a quarter of the way ( 
wards that goal. Hurry up, ires men!
For the benefit of transfer st 
dents W. A. A. wishes to annount once more that athletic poin awarded by other colleges may : transferred to Carnegie. Bet Preller has charge of the poi system and she can arrange it t anyone ¦who desires. Numera are awarded for four hundri points; a silver W. A. A. pin f. six hundred, and the Carnegie is given for a thousand poin Choose your goal now and start work for it.
Tartan Offense Shows 
Power In Scoring 
Lone Tally 
KAVEL AND JONES 
STAR IN DEADLOCK
Plaid Battles 
Notre Dame 
On Saturday
Harriers Open 
Season With 
Notre Dame
BY JOE BRONSON
The gods just weren’t with Coach 
Murray Armentrout and his squad 
of yearlings Saturday. Try as 
they might, every bit of. strategy 
they could think of seemed to go 
wrong, for the Panthers managed 
to turn two Tartan errors into 
touchdowns and thus givo them 
the verdict, 12 to nix.
For a while it looked as if the 
Plaid’s crippled squad might sur­
prise everyone, including them­
selves, and make a truly miserable 
afternoon for the cubs from across 
the park. The tide turned, how­
ever, late in the first period when 
Pitt recovered a fumble on the 
Carnegie 20-yard stripe and pro­
ceeded to pass and plunge its way 
for the initial score.Pitt’s second and last tally came just before the final whistle when an alert end smothered a last des­perate Skibo pass deep in Tech territory and ran IS yards for a touchdown. Both Pitt’s tries for extra points were blocked.Carnegie’s young hopefuls twice had the Panther hanging on for its life, once in the third quarter and once in the final stanza. The first 
time, a series of passes placed the oval on the seven-yard mark, but a fumble intervened and robbed the Plebes of their best opportunity to score. Again in the fourth period, the “Big Dog’s” charges advanced to within striking distance of the goal only to lose it by a penalty.The showing of the plebes, in spite of defeat, was truly remark­able. Injuries have crept in reg­ularly all season, and the short­age of material itself has handi­capped the coaching staff from the first. Spisak, brother of the Var­sity’s star broken field runner, played sensational ball all the way through. His passing was amaz­ingly accurate, and he was con­siderably aided by having an end, Schmidt, who apparently had glue on his hands, to catch them.
WHAT A WHALE OF A LOT OF DIFFERENCE ONE POINT MAKES! 
Usually one point in a football game means little, but one point in 
Saturday’s conflict would have meant victory. However, that one point 
was missing and the game ended in a 6-6 deadlock. Once again the 
Prexies from little Washington brought with them the well known Jinx, 
which has been a thorn in the side of the Tartans for many years, and 
succeeded in marring Carnegie’s record for the first time this season. In the first quarter it looked as if the Plaid attack was at last going to function properly, when, despite several serious penalties, the Skibos marched up the field for a touchdown. The line was making huge holes for the ball carriers and the interference was better than anything we have seen this year. .On two beautiful runs George Kavel succeeded in planting the old pigskin over the final chalk mark for what proved to be Carnegie’s only score, but which at the time looked to be just the first of a series of touchdowns. But the Prexies were not disheartened, in fact they went back in there more determined than ever to even the score which they did before the half was over. In the second half neither team had much advantage over the other one; the Tartans getting down to their opponents twenty-yard line early In the last quarter, but that was the closest they got to the W. & J. goal line.
FEW PEOPLE REALIZE THAT COACH HANK DAY HAD A VERY STRONG TEAM out there on the field and that it was do disgrace for the Tartan's to come off the field with a tie score. The Presidents had a big and veteran line; it outweighed the Plaid forward wall eight pounds to a man and their backfield had a similar weight advantage. In addition to this they had strong supply of good reserve material which Hank Day used frequently throughout the contest. The visitors’ lone tally came in the second quarter immediately after several sub­stitutions had been made in the Tartan line which seemed to materi­ally weaken the defensive ability of the forward wall, and before the regulars could be rushed back into the game W. & J., with the aid of Deacle, a powerful fullback, succeeded in battering their way down 
the field for a touchdown.The hidden ball offense of W. & J. was interesting to watch and was quite effective in the first few minutes, but after the first half the Plaid linesmen succeeded in breaking up many of the plays before they got started. It was a clever trick, that of painting the ball white. It. would have been much more difilcclt to have detected the ball car­rier if he had been toting the ordinary brown ball.
THE GALLOPING IRISH ARE GALLOPING AGAIN, seemingly with more vigor than ever before, and have already given warning that they are out for National honors once more. The team which hap­pens to be the opponent of that Notre Dame Outfit any time this year is going to have its hands full and that goes for our gallant Tartans next week. The annual Scotch-lrish conflict which comes about Satur­day out in South Bend has become one of the season’s football classics and this year it will be no exception. So far the Plaid team has not shown the strength of teams of 1926, 1928, or 1930, but past experiences have shown that pre-game dope means little in this conflict. Almost anything can happen. To the Tartans goes the credit of being the first team to ever conquer Notre Dame on their own stamping grounds and followers of the Irish have not yet forgotten the jubilation of that 27-7 defeat, and they are not apt to for some time to come. In addition 
to that Coach “Hunk” Anderson remembers a certain Saturday in No­vember back in 1926 when he brought his team to Pittsburgh, a pre­viously undefeated team, and took them back to Knute Rockne severe­ly trounced by a 19-0 score. It will take him quite a while to forget the passing and kicking of Harpster, the plunging of Letzeler, the sweeping end runs of Bill Donahoe, or in '28, the end around plays of Rosensweig, and the tearing apart of his line by Karcis and Letzeler. Yes, sir, those Irish mentors are still after revenge.
Skibos Hold Two Wins 
Over Irish In Nine 
Games Played
Loss of Captain-Elect 
Offset By Several 
New Candidates
Visitors Concerted Second 
Period Drive Results 
In Tying Score
It will be the canny Scotch 
against the Fighting Irish—despite 
the Carideos, Schwartzes and 
Yarrs who annually grace the lat- 
ter’s football horizon—when Car­
negie invades South Bend this Sat­
urday for its perennial Notre Dame encounter. The prominence and prestige which comes from beating Notre Dame, plus the natural rivalry existing between the two schools, has served to pro­duce a game second only in im­portance in Carnegie football realms to the Pitt battle.As the W. & J. melee produces its “jinx,” and the Pitt contest provides that supreme ultimatum, so does the Notre Dame-Tech game usually prove the most spectacular. Ever since football relations be­gan back in 1922, the Tartan-Irish meetings have seldom failed to produce Merriwell results.For example, in ’24, when Car­negie stopped dead the running at­tack of the famed “Four Horse­men” and matched the visitors point for point in the 13-13 first half. It was only Rockne’s un- fathonable aerial game which gave his charges a 40-19 victory and sent the on-lookers home with that “what-a-game” feeling. And those who saw it can ever forget that cold, dreary, November afternoon when an inspired band of Tartan warriors rocked the sports world with a decisive 19-0 victory over an unbeaten Irish aggregation—the game of which Wally Steffen later said, “It wasn’t an upset, it was a set-up”—referring to the courage and ability that his boys displayed 
that day for Carnegie.And then in '28, Carnegie’s mightiest machine, headed for the National championship under the All-American leadership of Howard Harpster, invaded South Bend and 
handed the Irish her first home de­feat in 24 years. Scoring three 
plays after the kickoff, coming back a few minutes later with an­other tally, and leading 20-0 at the half, that great Tartan football juggernaut went on to win by a 27-7 score before a rain-soaked crowd of 35,000 wildly excited spec­tators.Sandwiched in between these epoch-making victories came losses, but the most crushing and disap­pointing of all was the 21-6 defeat our potentially great 1930 aggrega­tion received. A powerful Notre Dame combine which later won the National laurels, "pointed” for the Carnegie encounter and could not bo denied.
For those who believe in it, this W. & J. football jinx is still with us. And in its shadow the latest chapter of Carnegie-Washington and Jefferson gridiron history was written last Saturday, in a game that started out like a whirlwind and ended up in a 6-6 gentle breeze.Hardly had the spectators set­tled in their seats when the Tar­tans, with Kavel carrying the ball, tore off in succession two perfect­ly executed plays which netted 64 
yards and a touchdown. The Tar­tan offense had begun to click and Carnegie supporters at last breathed a sigh of relief. Even when another perfect play—this time a pass—failed to score, Tar­tan supremacy reigned so high that little doubt of the outcome re­mained in the minds of those who watched. Then suddenly, as though some magic wand was waved, the Big Red team lost its scoringstride and was forced to battle oneven terms for the remainder of the contest.
The plays preceding the Skibo score were indeed a revelation to watch. With the ball on its own 36-yard line, the Carnegie offense engineered Capt. Kavel into the clear and past all except the W. & J. safety who downed George on the 30. McCurdy went out ofbounds for no gain and then Kavel, on the same play as previousstepped through a yawning gap in the line, cut back and raced the 30 yards behind perfect interfer- ference to score. Stewart’s kick for point was wide but at this 
juncture the miscue seemed of lit­tle importance.In the second quarter the Presi­dents put on a scoring drive them­selves which started on the Tartan 48 yard stripe and concluded when 
Fullback Bob Deacle bucked his way over the final marker for a 
6-pointer. The Skibo forwards saved the day by blocking Fife’s try for point.
Carnegie’s only other scoring threat ended on the W. & J. 21- yard in the third period. The Presidents quickly kicked out of danger and kicked so well that the ball bounded clear down to the Plaid 2-yard line and practically 
ended Carnegie’s scoring hopes.For the Tartans Co-Captain Kavel and Red Jones stood out. Kavel was the only consistent ground-gainer of the contest, while Jones played a bang-up defensive game at center and was quick in diagnosing and frustrating many of Wash-Jeff's deceptive advances.After watching the much-dis-
The Tartan Cross Country team 
opens the season next Saturday 
against Notre Dame at South Bend. 
The course will be three and one- 
lialf miles long over flat territory, 
a direct contrast to our own hilly 
six-mile run. Coach Halferty has 
been stressing speed, and last Fri­
day time trials were held. As a 
result of the trials Bob Schell, 
Shorey Allan, Emil Stankey, Roger 
Burke, H. Neff, and W. Neff were 
chosen to make the trip.
The Hill-and-Dalers received a 
set-back at the beginning of the 
year when it was found that Cap­
tain-elect Ramsky would be un­
able to compete. Two members cf 
last year’s freshman team are mak­
ing the veterans battle to hold 
their places; they are, Roger 
Burke, holder of the freshman 
course record, and young Neff. A 
former night school student has 
come out of .the dark to help 
strengthen the team with his ruu- 
ning. In addition to the new men, 
we have three letter men back so 
the team looks strong.
Next week the Tartans meet 
Geneva on their, own course. The 
Covenanters always give lots of 
trouble, of course, it goes without 
saying that the Irish will give 
Tech a battle.
THE TECH RENDEZVOUSLUNCHES..............................................................................25c and 35cDINNERS......................................................................35c, 50c and 65c
BETSY ROSS TEA ROOMFORBES STREET AND OAKLAND AVENUE
lySSyc uFr CrVo
Notre Dame
ALL EXPENSES” TRIP
Includes BUS TRANS­PORTATION (Round Trip) HOTEL ACCOM­MODATION TICKET TO GAME TWO MEALS
cussed Tartan offense carve out a neat 64-yard score during those first few minutes of action, Car­negie followers have the satisfac­tion of knowing that the team can perform as a winning team should, 
and produce a brand of play pre­requisite to making touchdowns. It will be the job of Tartan play­ers and coaches this week to re* gain for 60 full minutes against Notre Dame that magic though fleeting power and drive so evident at the oytset of the W. & J. en­counter.
Leave Pittsburgh Friday Night.
Leave South Bend Sunday Morning.
Past Records
WITH NOTRE DAME
1922—N. D.___19—Cfirnepric___0
1923—N. D.__2G—Cnmetdo-----0
192-1—N. D.----40—Cnmoffie-----19
1925—N. D.__19—Camelie___0
1926—N. D.___0—Carnepie-------19
1928—N. D.----7—Carnegie------271929—N. D.___7—Comefrío------01930—N. D.__21—Carnegie-----6
1931—N. D.__19—Carnegie-----0
Information and Reservations at 
Tartan and UY” Offices
Tour Conducted by Pittsburgh 
Travel-Servlce Bureau.
ONLY TWENTY-FOUR LETTERMEN ARE BACK ON THE IRISH SQUAD THIS YEAR and out of a small squad of 110 men, the Notre Dame coach is spending many a sleepless night wondering where he can find a suitable team to put on the field. He mourns the loss of Marcliy Swartz, Tommy Yarr, Nordy Hoffman, and Dick Mahony and wonders what he will do to replace them. Yes sir, we agree with “Hunk” that ho is in a tight spot. After the first two games only one hundred and thirty some odd points- have been scored against their op­ponents and an attitude of gloom prevails on the Notre Dame campus.
ONCE MORE THE TARTANS WILL BE OUTWEIGHED AT THE LINE, AND EVEN IN THE BACKFIELD, because the total weight of the Irish forward wall is 1,335 pounds which makes an average of over 190 pounds per man. The first team backfield will average about 178 pounds and when the substitutes begin rolling on the field the weight will not decrease one bit. The two heaviest men on the line are the two tackles, Krause and Kurth, the former weighing 212 pounds and the latter 204. The lightest man on the line is Captain Paul Host who 
tips the beams around 175. The backfield will consist of four nice 
Irishmen who answer to the names of Jaskwhlch, Lukats, Brancheau, and MeJInkovlch. And if anything happens to them Koken, Sheeketski, and Banas arc right on the bench waiting to be called upon. Steve BanaB, who was out of the lineup most of last year because of an In-' jury, has been playing a great game so far this year and may get the call over the veteran Melinkovich. Lukats, at the left halfback post, has been making some brilliant runs which would have been of credit to the great Swartz himself. Well, it is going to be a good game, be­cause no matter what the odds are the Tartans always make a great showing against Notre Dame.
AS THE SEASON PROGRESSES IT LOOKS AS IF THE PLAID TEAM is going to have a tough time of It during the remainder of their schedule. The old Pitt Panther journeyed up to the Hudson river and trimmed the great Army 18-13. Aiid Notre Dame had an easy time with Drake in trouncing them 62-0. Georgetown sauntered to NeAv York only to take a sound drubbing from the violet team from New York University. And on Friday night Temple really got started and defeated the strong Bucltnell team 13-0.
ALUMNI NEWS
fore the game and then attend tlio game. Full details will be issued in the next Tartan.
CLEVELAND CLAN 
The Cleveland Clan held a lunch­eon meeting last week at the Hotel Statler before the football game with Western Reserve. About forty members were present; Mr. Overend, graduate athletic man­ager, spoke. At 12; 15, station WJAY held a Carnegie Broadcast featuring short talks by Judge Steffen and Bod Waddell, Max Hannum, Sample and Kavel, the co-captains, Mr. Overend and Karl Davis of Western Reserve.
CINCINNATI CLANMembers of the Cincinnati Clan are again reminded of a social meeting to be held on Saturday 
evening, October 22, in the Alms Hotel. Alumni in Hamilton, Mid­dletown, and Dayton, Ohio, have already received notices of this meeting and are urged to attend. One of the purposes of this meet­ing is to arrange a large party to 
attend the Carnegie-St. Xavier game on November 12. Any alumni interested in attending the game should get in touch with the officers of the Cincinnati clan.PHILADELPHIA CLANSixty-two alumni attended a Philadelphia Clan party at the White Apron Club on West Ches­ter Pike on Wednesday evening, October 5.Plans were made for publishing a paper known as “The Techite News.” The clan is also planning to establish a fund from which an annual contribution may be made to the general endowment fund.On the night of the C^rnegie- Temple game, Friday, October 28, the Clan will meet at dinner be-
O. Alfred Dickman ’22 a gradu­ate of the Department of Printing has been recently appointed one of the secretaries of the New York Employing Printers Association Inc. Mr. Dickman, prior to his new appointment, was secretary of the Bartlett-Aldus Press of New 
York City. He will instruct a class in advertising typography
conducted by the Employing Print­ers Association.
THE TARTAN PLEBES LOST THEIR FIRST GAME OF THE SEA­SON ON SATURDAY when they met defeat at the hands of the Pitt Frosh by the score of 12-0. The game itself was much closer than the score would indicate. Pitt scored their first touchdown in the first quarter when they recovered a fumble on the Plebes’ 15-yard line. Twice in the second half the Skibo freshmen were up to the 15-yard line only to lose the chance to score, once by a fumble and next by a penalty. Pitt scored their second touchdown when Vaughn inter­cepted a pass in the last minute of play and ran twenty yards for a touchdown. The highlights of the game were the passing of Spisak, the catching of passes by Schmidt, and the excellent defensive work of Trbovich, Spencer and Moore.______________________________________
THE OAKLAND 
BANK”
jo INCUBATOR
IS SOMETHING YOU 
BURN RUBBISH IN
T
SIC! TSK! Isn’t it too bad! Bill 
Boner thinks a blizzard is some­
thing you find inside a fowl!
Why doesn’t somebody give him a 
good pipe and some tobacco? For a 
pipe helps a man to think straight. Of 
course, it’s got to be the right tobacco. 
But any college man can guide him 
in that. A rcccnt investigation showed 
Edgeworth to bo the favorite smoking 
tobacco at 42 out of 5b leading colleges.
Which is only natural—for in all 
tobaccodom there’s no blend like the 
mixture of fine old burleys found in 
Edgeworth. In that difference there’s 
a new smoking satisfaction, a new 
comfort, for the man who likes to
Peoples- 
Pittsburgh 
Trust Co.
The ad vantages of 
ample resources and 
the services of ex­
perienced officers are 
available to our de­
positors
think and dream with a pipe be­
tween his teeth.
Buy Edgeworth anywhere in two 
forms — Edgeworth Ready-Rubbed 
and Edgeworth Plug Slice. All sizes 
—15fi pocket package to pound hu­
midor tin. If you’d like to try before 
you buy, write for a free sample 
packet. Address 
Larus & Bro. Co.,
120 S. 22d Street,
Richmond, Va.
tiiK««»! 'C\
Around the corner and down yonr way lie 
comes with his mellow accordion ... a song on his lips 
and the love of song in his heart, like a wandering 
troubadour of old. 
Light up your Chesterfield, fling wide your radio 
window and listen . . . for he has many tales to tell you
Oakland Branch
Forbes and Meyran
Chesterfield Radio Program—Mondays and Thursdays, Boswell 
Sisters; Tuesdays and Fridays, Arthur Tracy; Wednesdays and 
Saturdays, Ruth Etting. Shilkret’s Orchestra and Norman 
Brokenshire 10 p.m. (E. S. T.) Mondays, Weduesdays, Fridays; 
and 9 p. m. Tuesdays, Thursdays, Saturdays. Columbia Network.
MEMBER FEDERAL 
RESERVE SYSTEMEDGEWORTH SMOKING TOBACCO

---------------------------------------------------

THE CARNEGIE TARTAN, TUESDAY. OCTOBER 18, 19323
Moip
IdleMalîtraflent
Lockers Puzzle 
To Old And New 
Students Alike
Well, the call is issued for 
-yorkers for that big army of the -Tight Student Council. Guess this 
s as important as any other kind 'f work, so I'll bet the registration ne composed of those who wish > enter their names will be a rep- .tentative one. The Council 
•ems to secure quite a number I willing workers. There must be omething fascinating about the 
'ork and council to attract the 
tght students. I wonder if there ould be any place for an Idle iglit Student—I can't do much ex- ept possibly loaf on the job, es* 
eeially after such assignments as i have received during the past week.
Speaking of assignments brings ie to the all important question of 
ext books. Now, that is a point, specially when one considers that he cost of tuition still remains the ame and all the extra money one — is used up by buying gasoline 
r the car, if you happen to be so ifortunate as to own one; the rtunate ones still use the street irs. The question of the text book is all important in that even 
though you may have a friend who jsed such and such a book five /ears ago and he has volunteered :o let you use this book for your class, you are due for a sad awak­ening because the book has been 
:hanged, or some other author has >een substituted—There’s an effort 
i economize vanquished. The day . ay be saved, however, if one is fortunate enough to be able to se­cure books from one Pillsbury— (not flour) who has a number of used books for sale. I need sever­al and am going to try my luck with Pillsbury.
I mentioned the unfortunate 
ones who drive cars, and well I should. Did you ever ride in a par to the campus, either your own, or some other person’s, and note the large spaces available for parking? There you have the point. Driving around with no 
place to park is an interesting game at Carnegie especially be­tween the hours of 6:30 and 8:30 p. m any night during the week. Yes, the fortunate ones are really 
those who park their troubles with the street cars after they arrive at the "Cut.”
And, believe it or not, as I came 
upon the campus last week I no­ticed one of the beacons stationed at one of the prohibited places flashing a green light. I rubbed my eyes to ascertain if I was see­ing double, or whether it was the efiection from Morewood avenue it the “Cut.” No, I saw right. Tho 1 ight really flashed green in front )f Langley Lab. Now this is a bit mcouraging as eventually we may 
lave through traffic in this part of he campus.
A novel way to settle the park <ng question at Carnegie would be to establish a system as has been 
put into practice at Amherst Col­lege. The plan is to make the drWlng of a car a privilege. This privilege would depend upon tho 
grades secured by the students. Scholastic average of 75 per cent or bettor is essential in order to se­en ro the right to drive a car at Amherst. The stand is taken that motor cars are, in general, a dis- tracton rather than an adjunct to 
the primary purpose for which tho ¡students attend Amherst. Gee, wouldn’t that system be fine 
Carnegie. You could tell at ¿fiance all those who made a grade or 75 per cent or better. Guess I 
better park myself on the street cars and secure a permanent pass, because I am sure to go below 75 per cent. Wonder what those night students would do who come from Greensburg, Walkerville, Goblers Knobb, Bridgeville, Alli­
ance, and the other distant places. Guess we won’t have such a sys­tem at Carnegie. I’ll bet the night 
students will agree that those in authority at Amherst are wrong when it comes to a distraction es­pecially when driving a car is the only means of getting to the camp' us.
Were you able to find your class rooms? This used to be a big fac­tor when the night students first came out. I didn’t notice so many running around as usual so 
pose that the rooms are easy find. In the good old days, how 
ever, many an hour’s time was spent in finding out that such and such a room was anywhere except where you thought it was. Thanks 
to those who were responsible in rePfisigning numbers.
hings are getting into full ig with the first week of school 
r and all settling down for tho rs work of study and all that 3 with it. It is good to note tho nber of students who are back 1 the instructors who come out 
lit after night to lend a hand In instruction of the night stu­ds. Wo do have a wonderful .ool and an excellent corps of in- 
uctors to guide us and I take hat off to them, even if I don’t •ee with them all the time,
Aside from the renewing of old 
acquaintances and making new 
ones, the first night of classes in 
the Arts School is ironically known 
to P. and D. students os a night of 
experimentation.
It is generally believed by cer­
tain classes that people with artis­
tic leanings have no mechanical 
instincts. The disciples of this 
unaltruistlc theory would no doubt 
have rejoiced with diabolical satis­
faction, had any of them been 
present in the P. and D. corridor 
as the new contingent of prospec­tive night art students bore down 
ruthlessly, but with little success, 
on the tricky narrow combination 
lockers assigned to them for stor­
ing their drawing and painting 
paraphernalia.
An impartial observer, however, 
would have had nothing but praise 
and admiration for these frantic young men and women, who with rare display of perseverance made repeated efforts to unravel those perplexing combinations.Even veteran locker openers with many years of experience on this particular variety failed embar­rassingly on many occasions as good samaritans. It is obvious that the ranks of the safe-cracking profession will never be recruited from art students.Experience has shown that tho best way to open one of these obstinate contraptions is to pound upon it incessantly with the bare fists until the mind becomes dazed and one loses all sense of anima­tion. Then while in this lacka­daisical trance, go through tho prescribed combination on the dial, and the locker opens as if by occult magic.It is estimated that approxi­mately three weeks of this practice is necessary before one can acquire that essential mechanical acumen that will enable him eventually to open his locker on first try and thereby arrive at class on time. ,
We Cut Your Hair To Please YOU
FORBES BUILDING 
BARBER SHOP
“The College Barber”12 ATWOOD ST., Near Forbes j
C. S. EDMAN
PRINTER 
6470 Monitor Street
Research Proves Size 
Of Class Not Important
Night College Of Engineering To 
Hold Smoker In Union Sat. Evening
The annual election smoker of 
the Night College of Engineering 
will be held in the Union Saturday 
night, October 22. It will be noted 
that the location is the Union, on 
the third floor of the Administra­
tion Building, and not in the 
Gymnasium, as. announced in the 
social calendar. The arrangements 
for holding the affair in the Gym­
nasium were only tentative, and 
the final plans include the use of 
the Union, which is better adapted 
to the purpose.
Notwithstanding the depression, 
the officers promise the usual good 
time for those attending, and it is whispered about that the affair will be in no way inferior to the smokers of the past. Anyone who can possibly arrange to attend should do so, if for no other rea­son than to cast their vote in the election of officers for the present year. Aside from the interest to be found in the election, the enter­tainment provided will make it well worth while to attend. Iu keeping with the times, a free lunch will be served, which is an­other inducement for attending. 
Free lunches are scarce these days.Admission will be only upon presentation of your registration card, no other ticket or pass being necessary or acceptable.As points towards an insignia will be awarded for work done, en­gineers who are interested in ob­taining part of the points 'which must be earned at functions of their own college, in addition to those earned at Student Council 
events, are requested to come to the Union at six o'clock, or a lit­tle earlier, in order to assist with preparations foi’ the affair. Let’s have a good turnout.
Niglit Handbooks 
Still Available
Experiments conducted at Purdue University over a period of two years to determine the effect of class size upon student learning, effort, and attitude toward instruc­
tor and toward teaching procedure, reveal that size of class is not a significant variable in the achieve­ment of students.Many other popular delusions regarding the effectiveness of mass education have been found to be wrong and baseless as the result of three different types of experi­ments with classes ranging in size from seventeen to fifty-four stu­dents.
It was found that student atti­tude in the small classes unani­mously favor the small class and also that student attitude as measured by ratings of the Instruc­tors are not greatly effected by class size.
Class size does not. significantly affect the average amount of time spent in preparation as reported by students in the experiment.During the survey it was devel­oped that the cost of instruction may he significantly reduced and 
the effectiveness of the instructors Increased without affecting the stu­dent's achievements. This could he done without increasing the burden upon the instructor by hav­ing some of the paper work done by competent students.
Although many students who did not obtain copies of the night student handbook at registration 
came to the Night Student Coun­cil office and received them, there are still many who have not taken 
advantage of the offer made in the previous issues of the Tartan on this page. This should not be, for the handbook is a really valuable aid to any student, in that it an­
swers many questions which come up throughout the year.It is about the only source of in­formation that is readily available 
to many of the students when they 
are desirous of obtaining informa-
DIDJA NOTICE
THAT in spite of business be­ing what it is, parking space is still hard to find; except for those of us who heel and toe it over the campus.THAT the economy wave hit the light over the Arts building entrance.THAT Dad Manson was caught taking our handsome wooden horses out for some exercise the other night. He promised to feed, water and curry them immediately afterwards.THAT those same horses are preparing to ride many hesitant students ere long.That a certain would-be tried to razz the handbook editor the other night and the argument did a boomerang on him';THAT somebody else hopes this column gets into a fight. So do we old boy, then watch the fur-r-r-r-r fly.THAT the latest hot one on the night campus is, “If so and so doesn’t belong, it can’t be much of an organization.” Quick, Watson, the needle.THAT night school elections start this week and some of those amateur politicians are getting quite excited about 
them.THAT the night engineers are throwing a smoker this Sat­urday P. M. We’ll be seenya there. Hope they don’t cut 
down on the eats.THAT the Idle Night Student can do as classy a job of loafing as any of his predecessors.THAT that’s that and I’ll be 
seenya.
Obey Parking 
Rules, Warning 
To All Students
tion in a hurry. The night school calendar alone is almost indispen- 
sible, as- well as providing a handy 
short diary.
Every student who registers and 
pays his. tuition fee is entitled to a 
copy of this book, and we again 
urge those who have not presented 
their registration cards at the Council office for their copy to do so as soon as possible. The Night Student Council office is located 
on the first floor of the Adminls-, tration Building, room number 144-C. Don’t get discouraged if 
there is no one in the office the first time you come. Remember that the officers are night students 
too, with schedules just as heavy as yours, so come back again and again If necessary. You will find 
that this little book will be well worth your trouble.______________
pocially when I try to dodge an as­
signment or two. I am human, you know, and who is there who does not once in a while try to dodge a task or two.
TRAVEL BUREAU PLANS TRIPS
To accommodate students wish­ing to follow the football team on its out-of-town trips, the Pitts­burgh Travel Bureau,is offering a new idea in its conducting of stu­dent trips with all expenses paid.Tickets for the trip to Notre Dame, now available at the “Y” office, include round trip transpor­tation on buses leaving Friday evening, ticket to the game, meals, and hotel accommodations.Call at the “Y” office or the Tar­tan office for further information and arrangements.
809 Liberty Avenue EveninRs 40c 
“Art Knows No Class Nor Creed”
Return Engagement By Insistent Demand
tCcy hrVTuR vp 
kVSui Cvorf
Now with Super-imposed English Titles.
A Sure 
Foundation
One of the Bnfcst foundnUoiiB 
011 which to build your finnn- 
cinl indopcndencc is a Havings 
account. Systemntic suvlntr 
begun while you are in coIIcro 
will pave the way for a suc­
cessful future. Our Savings 
Accounts pay liberal interest 
compounded semi-annually.
dCeLlCNd
STUDENT S’ SUPPLIES 
FORBES STREET, Between Oakland Avenue and Boquet St.. 
10% Discount to
Desert air is wet
... by comparison!
Making telephone equipment presents many 
an interesting problem to the engineers of Western 
Electric—manufacturer for the Bell System.
A case in point is the drying of telephone cable 
before putting on the protective lead sheath. This 
step is of utmost importance, for the tiny copper 
wires cannot carry your voice properly unless their 
paper insulation is thoroughly dried. To this end, 
Western Electric engineers devised special drying 
ovens in which the air is thirty times drier than 
desert air!
The same ingenuity and thoroughness go into 
every step of making cable, telephones, switch­
boards and many other kinds of telephone equip- 
. ment. The dependable apparatus that results is 
one reason why Bell System service is dependable.
BELL SYSTEM
No doubt many night students who drive to school have already exhausted their vocabulary as they hunted a very elusive parking space. Due to a somewhat limited parking area and to certain park­ing regulations with which some students are not familiar the Tar­tan publishes, herewith the regula­tions in force on and around the campus. The students are asked to obey these rules so that no mis­understandings may occur.
No pa'fking is permitted on the Industries side of the drive parel- 
leling Industries and Langley Lab. However, right angle to the curb parking is permitted on the Park side of this drive. Machines should be parked with the rear to the em­bankment. They should also be parked reasonably close together so that as large a number as pos­sible can be accommodated.
No parking is permitted on the Quadrangle—nor between barriers on this drive at any time. This rule must be observed.No parking is permitted on the drive between the Fine Arts Build­ing and Langley Lab.Parking is permitted on both sides of Woodlawn avenue, and on 
both sides of the drive between Fine Arts Building and the Gymna­sium. Driveways, however, are to be kept clear.In order to accommodate as 
many cars as possible, please park your car as near as possible to the one next to you. This will elimi­nate much waste space. Obeying all the above regulations will work to everybody’s advantage. Please do your part.
A NATION-WIDE SYSTEM OF INTER-CONNECTING TELEPHONES
Aides For Engineering 
Smoker Report At Union
Night engineers who are desir­ous of earning points to be applied towards the insignia award will re­port at the Union Saturday even­ing, October 22, to assist in pre­
paring for the smoker to be held that evening. The time for gath­ering has been set for six o’clock. 
As the smoker will not begin until about half past eight there should be ample time for all preparations if the turnout of workers is as good as it lias been in the past.
At the University of Melbourne, Australia, the men are asserting their superiority again. They have taken up knitting as a protest against the coeds who have adopt­ed . football as one of their major sports.
Military Ball Number 
Of Puppet Out Oct. 25
The next issue of the Carnegie Tech Puppet will appear on Tues­day, October 25. This will be the 
Military Ball Number and judging from the good start which .Puppet made this year, this one should be a sell-out. The price per copy is only ten cents and is a real bar­gain for a college humorous maga­zine. See the night salesman who is soliciting your order for your copy.
Night Sales Staff Of 
Puppet Being Organized
All night students Interested in 
selling Puppet, the college humor­
ous magazine, should send in their 
name and address to E. McDon­
ald, box 137 C. I. T. Post Office, or leave the Information at the Night Student Council Office, Room 144-C Industries Building. Ten issues of the magazine are published during the college year. The numbers sell for ten cents per copy. Stu­
dents interested should send in their name at once so that no time will be lost in selling the remain­ing numbers.
A new system of grading Is In 
practice at the University of Cali­fornia. An objective exam is given at the end of four weeks, and those students making a percentage of 95% or better and having an A average in class work will be re­leased from the course. But that’s not all. A refund of $5 on tho course will.be given. It seems to pay to study.
Talking from the sky 
on a beam of light
'THE huge U. S. Navy dirigible, Los Angeles, is roaring 
-*• above the General Electric Research Laboratory at Sche­
nectady. On board the airship, an almost invisible beam of 
light is aimed at a 24-inch mirror-target a half-mile below. 
The mirror, turning as it follows the dirigible’s course, catches 
the slender beam. Voices transformed into electric impulses 
in the airship are carried to the mirror by light waves. A 
photoelectric cell picks up these waves and they are recon­
verted into sound, which is broadcast to the world by radio. 
A "voice on the air," with a "voice from the air"—the offi­
cial opening of radio station WGY’s new 50-kw. transmitter 
is taking place. One millionth of a watt—generated from the 
blast of a police whistle in the dirigible—is transmitted to 
the ground on the beam of light and to a Thyratron tube. 
The tube magnifies the whistle energy 50,000,000,000,000 
times to operate the switches that start the transmitter, five 
miles away.(Insert) John Bellamy Taylor, General Electric research engineer, operating projecting apparatus
Thus was "narrowcasting," a possible means of secret 
communicâtion, recently demonstrated to Military and 
Naval experts by General Electric engineers. The 
future will demonstrate its commercial value. Elec­
trical developments such as this are largely the ac­
complishments of college-trained engineers. They are 
leading the way to even greater progress in the 
electrical industry and are helping to maintain General 
Electric’s leadership in this field.
Research "Laboratory
GabaAegEagamCAsm
—and raw tobaccos 
have no place in cigarettes
They are not present in Luckies 
. .. the mildest cigarette 
you ever smokedW
E buy the finest, the very 
finest tobaccos in all the 
world—but that does not 
explain why. folks every­
where regard Lucky Strike as 
the mildest cigarette. The fact 
is, we never overlook the 
truth that "Nature in the 
Raw is Seldom Mild”—so
these fine tobaccos, after 
proper aging and mellowing, 
are then given the benefit of 
that Lucky Strike purifying 
process, described by the 
words—"It’s toasted”. That’s 
why folks in every city, town 
and hamlet say that Luckies 
are such mild cigarettes.
tsuNR uyVRur$f
That package of mild Luckies
"If a man write a better book, preach a better sermon, or make a better mouse-trap than his neighbor, tho he 
build bis house in the woods, the world will make a beaten path to his door. ”—RALPH WALDO EMERSON. 
Does not this explain the world-wide acceptance and approval of Lucky Strike?

---------------------------------------------------

4THE CARNEGIE TARTAN, TUESDAY, OCTOBER 18, 1932
2** bak DIAO
Privato underground passage to 
Pohn Station and all subways 
running to Yankee Stadium. 
Polo Grounds and Bailor Field. 
SINGLE from $2 * DOUBLE from $3 
'CONVENIENT TO ALL THEATRES.
arac Carnegie 3Tartau
Editor-In-Chief------
IlunlncHH Manager _
PHONE MAYFLOWER 2G00 
After Oiiicc Hours Cnll
—Schenley 9436 Sporta Editor 
____Hazel 9173 Plaid Editor 
____Schcnlcy 9580____Schcnlcy 2389
PubliHhed weekly during the collose year by undoEflrraduateB of Carnefdo Institute of 
Technolo»ry. Entered In the Pittsburgh Post Office as Bccond-clnss mutter.
EDITOR-IN-CIIIEF---------
BUSINESS MANAGER- NEWS EDITOR-------------
____________________________EDWARD E. McDONALD
ASSOCIATE EDITORS 
Copy Editor«: Christine Lalghou Alumni Editor: Henrietta SteinberpDolly Allison Exchango Editors: Marjorie Dougherty
llarry Hower Ruth PhillipsAssigiiment Editor: Anthony Carnvale
MANAGING BOARD THIS ISSUE Jacquo Mlnnot'to, Edmund McCormick, Joseph AdamB, Alice ITenzi
JUNIOR EDITORS: Joseph Adams, Anthony Cacchionc, Loretta Conlin, Alice Henzi, John Hlltz, Edmund McCormick, Samuel Wicks, Jacque Minnotte.
ATHLETIC STAFF: Gloria Kloos, Women's Editor; Ned Stirling, John Lowes,
Jarneii Halferty, J'orry Hansen,
PLAID STAFF: James II. Sansonctti, News Editor; Frank C asset, A. N. Evens, H 
E. McGnnnon.
SPECIAL WRITERS: Mary McCullough, Stanton Williams.
ADVERTISING STAFF: James E. Stahl, Manager; William Waldman, Assistant; Morton Gurmise, Loren Kannenberg, John McGrane, William McKenna, William 
Snuvary.
CIRCULATION STAFF: William Finglnsa, Manager; Sidney Feldman, Leonard Ro- 
Henbcrg, Albert Prycc-Jones, Abe Leipzig.
REPORTERS: J. Clifton Carr, Jane Livingston, Herbert Schwarz, Constantine Mar­
garet Gridin, Veronica Kloos, Anna Ladd, Virginia Cooper, Thelma Shelley, Gertrude Breakstone, Jayne Henderson, Peter Paulus, Ruth Cohen, Harold Baer, 
Pauline Bevnn, Jannette Black, Mirain MalakofT, Gwen Haddock, Ruth Gustafson, 
Jane Miller, Roy Mlnet, Virginia Siegel, William LandBberg.
TYPISTS: Lucille Jacobs, Ann Kaufman.
Freshman Regulations
The miserable failure of the half-hearted attempt of the 
sophomores to enforce Freshman Regulations this year should 
be seized' by the Class of 1936 as a splendid opportunity to show 
any class spirit they might have. With the existing, freedom 
the freshmen enjoy, it is apparent that they do not realize that 
there are traditions at Carnegie which must be perpetuated.
Of course, this unconeernity manifested by the Plebes is 
not entirely their fault. Have they been instructed enough, 
about the regulations? Surely they can read them in their 
bible, yet what incentive have they to follow them? No oppor­
tunities have been offered this year for pre-game football pep 
meetings, which are so vital in stirring up school spirit. Some 
upperclassmen have shown complete indifference when spoken 
to by freshmen. Here arises but another challenge to the 
freshmen to show their congenialty among themselves and to 
those upperclassmen who are not bored with school life and 
with such silly things as class spirit.
In past years, the Cwens and Druids have directed the en­
forcement of regulations. While the Cwens have attempted to 
fulfill their one obligation to Carnegie this year, the Druids 
seemingly are unaware of their very important responsibility. 
The blame for this condition, however, falls upon the shoulders 
of last year’s Druids, since the members of this year’s group 
have not yet been initiated into the society. Regardless of this 
fact, the members of this year’s group have not shown any desire 
to find out the present status of the society as a campus honorary. 
Even some of the members are not interested enough to attend 
meetings. Despite the fact that a Student Council committee 
is investigating the status of the organization, there is no ex­
cuse for the obvious lack of interest shown by the members to­
ward Freshman Regulations. When such a condition exists, 
there is no necessity for the existence of such an honorary, and 
the Student Council should take steps to annul the Druid char­
ter il! the group does not fulfill its duty to the school.
Freshman elections are being held in all schools today and 
the yearling class will choose the men and -women who are to 
lead them throughout the remainder of the year. As yet, the 
freshmen have not done anything as a group to show that they 
arc unified and interested in demonstrating to the lethargic 
sophomores what class spirit really is. The fact that the sopho­
mores do not have any interest in their school lil!e should not 
discourage the Plebes. It will be up to the new freShman 
officers to stir up some class activity.
The Tartan Presidential Poll
This issue ol! the Tartan carries an announcement'that .the 
Tartan will conduct a presidential straw-vote next week among 
the students and faculty of Carnegie. So much interest is being 
shown over the coming election'that the Tartan believes it will 
be interesting to learn how the students and faculty are’dis­
posed toward the various candidates and party platforms. The 
Administration has very willingly co-operated with the Tartan 
in allowing the poll to be held during a class period when the 
greatest number of students at any one time during the week, 
will be in classes in order that as many as possible of the stu- 
‘dents and faculty will be covered by the poll. It is through 
jthis co-operation that the Tartan hopes to avoid an outstanding 
fault of the usual student poll—the undesirable situation where 
only a few students vote ancl results are published as the senti­
ment oi! the entire student body.
In order that the students will clearl}1- understand the plat­
forms oi: the various parties; a man well-versed in political af­
fairs will speak on this subject at a special assembly which will 
he held next Tuesday. Next week’s Tartan will carry several 
articles about the present campaign and the candidates.
The Tartan will co-operate with the Daily Prineetoniair of 
Princeton University in conducting a nation-wide college poll, 
the results of which will be published in connection with the 
Carnegie returns 011 Tuesday, November 1. Tliirty-four papers 
of leading colleges and universities will conduct polls similar 
to the Tartan poll.
Inasmuch as the Tartan straw-vote, under the present ar­
rangements, will be the only one in Pennsylvania included in 
this nation-wide college poll, it will be interesting to see how 
the Carnegie student returns representing this state will com­
pare with those from other sections of the country.
Glee Club Dance 
Date Changed To 
Fri. November 18
The date of the combined Car­
negie Glee Clubs’ dance, which 
was originally scheduled for Oc- 
tobor 2S, has been changed to No­
vember IS. The change has been 
approved by the Student. Council, 
and the dance, which is the first 
(¡lee Club affair of the season, will 
be held in Thistle Hall as pre­
viously announced. As usual, the 
affair will bo informal and open to tho entire student body.The committee for tho Women’s Glee Club is as follows: Henri­etta Warner, chairman; Jeannette Fischol, Gertrude Landis, and Vir­ginia Whaley.The officers of the Women’s Glee Club for the present year are: President and manager, Betty 
Davies ’33; secretary and treas­urer, Lurline Williams: librarians, Atnes M. Holst ’3-i and Catherine E. Gift ’35. Mr. Karl A. Mal- cherelc is faculty director, and Dorothy Jeanne Morse is student director.Rehearsal for women are held on Monday evenings from 7:00 to 00 and 011 Tuesday afternoons from 
4:30 to 5:30.
Dorm Dance 
Date Changed 
To October 28
Leslie P. Parmele Is 
Chairman; Program 
To Be Novel
Phi Mu Alpha Dance 
To Be October 26
Phi Mu Alpha lias secured This­
tle Hall for its Tea Dance to be 
held on October 26. Tickets are 
now being sold for the affair. The 
price of admission is twenty-five 
cents per person. An invitation is 
extended to everybody to attend 
the dance, and plans are being 
made for a capacity attendance. 
Tickets may be secured from any 
member of the honorary. «
The annual Men’s Dormitory Dance will be held in Thistle Hall on Friday, October 20, one week later than shown on the social calendar. This change was ap­proved by Student Council at a recent meeting in order to correct the error made in not originally scheduling this event for the Fri­day before Hallowe’en as lias been customary in previous years.The committee consists of Les­lie P. Parmele, chairman, Carl F. Hanson, Martin D. Grow, Albert O. Jenkins, Martin Erie, and Bar­tholomew J. Aimone. No definite arrangements have been made, but something novel is being planned in both refreshments and decora­tions. All residents of the Carnegie Men’s Dormitories will be ad­mitted free; others will be charged $1.00 a couple.
Music Guild Has 
Special Student 
Concert Rates
The Music Guild of Pittsburgh for the first time is presenting the String Symphonic Ensemble of Pittsburgh under the direction of Signor Oscar E. Del Bianco in a 
series of six concerts at Carnegie 
Music Hall. The Music Guild of­fers three classes of membership: Patron, $25.00; Active, $10.00; Student, $2.50. Each subscriber, upon payment of above dues is al­lotted two reserved seats for the series of concerts. Student mem­bership is available upon sub­
mitting evidence of enrollment in an educational institution. The concerts will be given at 8:15 on the following evenings: October20, November 25, .December 29, 
January 27, March 9, and April 20.The String Symphonic Ensemble is at present composed of twenty- eight string musicians to which a 
group of woodwinds, and horns is added as needed. This is the En­semble’s third season. The group 
is dedicated to the production of chamber music. classic and mod­ern. Its conductor, Oscar del Bianco, a pupil of Antonin Dvorak, has conducted such famous musi­cal groups in Europe as the Sym­phony Orchestra of Naples and the Opera of the National Theater in Rome; in America, the Manhat­tan Symphonic Orchestra, and the Philadelphia Symplionietta.
The Surrounding 
World
‘ Continued From Page 1
of Hoover by Coolidge. Speaking of Coolidge, we find him having 
quite a few words to say in his own peculiar, vague, meaningless way about the coming election, the achievements of the Republican candidate, and the importance of 
party unity.
To summarize the entire situa­tion at the present time when the political jamboree- is at its middle October height, I should say that Herbert Hoover is in a much more favorable position than that in which he found himself a few weeks ago. I expect to see him continue to improve his position so that by election time it will be a toss up as to who the next presi­dent will be. As Hoovei» is strenghening his hold, Roosevelt, 
who looked very strong for a while, is beginning to weaken un­der the frank, straight forward speeches of Odgen Mills and other Hoover backers who are still young enough to realize the posi­tion of the United States at the present time. By next week I 
anticipate a great increase of Hoover votes both straw and bona- 
fide.
FRQM THE FE-MCE
AT THE OLD SWIMMING HOLE—An imposing array of Carnegie’s bathing beau­ties and beach adonises took to the water one last time before they called a halt for the present season, and after a most successful splashfest sponsored by the W. A. A., went home to pack 
away the old swim suit and hang up the coat of tan for another season.Every conceivable diversion was in order from Culbertson to balloon busting. Exhibitions by members of the swimming team with Walt Derdeyn and Pal Miller free styling and Ira Kuhn and I-I arry Lebherz fancy diving. Bob Ackley woundup the demonstration with a bit of. what he termed Chinese life saving that had the crowd 
in an uproar.Ann Warden and Marian McNary did some fancy tandem swimming while they waited for Harry Madsen’s suit to arrive. Sturgis Stentz presided over a table of bridge - most of the evening. Everybody was diving for the balloons and only a few managed to save their hard won laurels from pinching fingers. Betty Preller, Hazel Gough, Leah Voeghtly, Dorothy Schultz, and, in fact, almost the entire W. A. A. was on hand. Doctor and Mrs. Neeley in appropriate at­
tire chaperoned.*****
IN CASE YOU’VE WONDERED—What makes Betty Ailes’ cheeks • so rosy? Every night at Forbes Hall she has a dish of bran 
instead of dessert.Why Beckey Williams always seems to see you first these days? It’s those new lorgnettes.What connection that picture of a young lady wringing a young man’s neck had with this col­umn last week? The censors finally caught us.What fraternity is making a bid for the title of “High Hatters?” The Beta Sigma Rho boys now have two colored maids to assist at their 
dances.What that new society is up at the Phi Kap House? They call it the M. A. S'., which to those in the “know” 'signifies Mutual Admiration So­ciety. Beta chapter, so they say. Ed Keller has been named the new field secretary and has been assigned the Cleveland territory as his first job. Former Editor Jack Boyle also has his finger in 
the pie.It’s really true. The Pi K. A. boys have some -new pledges. Five innocent gold fish and some very lazy snails constitute the pre-season haul. Call out the vigilance committee. They thought
they had a blessed event last week, but “they” turned out to be black stones—pass the ceegars! *****
STADIUM SLANTS—Plebe-Pitt Frosli prelim . . . Lots of shouting at the officials . . . Pitt sporting a squad three times the size of ours . . . Armentrout’s debut as coach ... A weaker Carnegie eleven out­fighting a bigger foe . . . The Wash-Jeff squad warming up . . . The Kilties . . . W. & J.’s band with a fancy stick twirling drum major . . . He’s Buzz Kountz’s brother . . . The big red team . . . Off to a great start . . . Fancy band stunts during the half . . . The Kilties as color­ful as ever with their balloon send-off . . . An­other fancy paper stunt . . . Wish we could see it some time . . . The game almost over and a record breaking debate ... It ended in a draw, too . . . The speaker system finally seems to have thrown off its cold . . . Loud cheers from the student section when it was announced Army was leading Pitt . . . Next week it’s the grid graph.Despite the deadlock in the annual battle, Saturday evening found the campus cluttered with merrymakers.A record breaking crowd was on hand for the Wash-Jeff football dance at Thistle Hall. Billy Weixel and his orchestra fur­nished the tunes for the dancers and lived up to the rep they had earned the previous week.Many football­ers took ad­vantage of; their Saturday at home and' were on hand with the one and only. Bill Lazarus and Bill Councill attended with a couple of Bucknell girls. Family laurels for the evening went to the Kloos family with four of the five feminine offsprings present. It’s only fair to explain that the fifth is married. Many Wash-Jeffers helped swell the crowd. Billy Williams, an ex-Pitt cheerleader, now graduated to chief sax player in Weixel’s band, did his best to get them to sing the old school songs, but most of them were too busily engaged getting around the floor. The management forgot to announce it, but next Saturday the dance will be a celebration of the school’s third victory over Notre Dame. Oh, yeah! Well, you never can tell.The Delt house held its second open house for the Greeks of the campus and a goodly crowd was there. Bill Ryshanek and his boys furnished the music for the dancers who glided slowly about under the bows of autumn leaves which were suspended from every vantage point.
meUnLd mLAsIdsCsad
l<125 — ZHI
DR.TH0NAS 5.BAKER. 
WAS AT ONE TIME 
POLICE REPORTER l\ND 
LATER A MUSIC CRITIC 
FORTHE WASTONEIMPLCR
AS AN AVERAfrF 
CLASS,23.b% OF 
THE CLASS OF'jì 
IN ENfrlNEERINfr 
AND INDUSTRIES 
GRADUATED ONT I HE
Metallurgists Meet 
In Union On Friday
Continued From Page 1
Plain Carbon, Normalized Steels.’ A business session of the meet­ing and a dinner at which Dr. Baker will preside will be held in the evening at the Hotel Schenley. 
An address will be made by J. II. Van Deventer, editor of “Iron Age,” on “The Outlook for the Steel Industry.”Those students interested may attend the sessions free of charge; tickets for the dinner can be se­cured from Mr. Beatty for $1.50.
CONTRIB
Editor’s Note: All articles 
published under this heading 
are submitted by Carnegie stu­
dents. The Tartan is not 
necessarily responsible for the opinions expressed.
The present year marks thetwenty-seventh in the existence ofCarnegie as an accredited institu­tion of higher learning. As ages 
of schools go, Carnegie is still young. Among the establisheduniversities and institutions it stands as an infant. Older schools have grown strong with thestrength that comes of age.—have become firm and stable with ex­perience and secure in the real­
ization of their accomplishments. Their principles have become de­termined and established with age, and the records of their graduates stand as definite proof of the 
quality of their teachings and their worth to the commonwealth. Furthermore, the older schools have developed traditions that have become integral parts of their structure — traditions which, in their effect upon the student, have 
enriched the schoolss more than it is commonly realized.The fact that a student has once studied at a school does not furnish a bond strong enough to instill in the student the genuine love and feeling for Alma Mater that he naturally should have. A stronger tie is needed and can only be supplied by a wealth of tradition and background. It is this bond which Carnegie, in its present state, lacks. The great majority of the students at Carne­
gie spend their entire four years neither having gained the feeling 
of loyal nor having experienced the close tie between himself and Alma Mater that is usually evident in a graduate of an older school.This, of course, is inevitable. Carnegie cannot bemoan the fact that it is young. It should, though, come upon the realization that it is leaving its infancy and, perhaps, rejoice in the promise it holds for the future. The. character of 
Carnegie is as yet undertermined, and its background has not mel­lowed long enough with age to provoke a feeling of reverence in the student. However, it is the present student body and the ones 
in the years immediately follow­ing that must affect the transition of infancy into manhood success-
fully. Carnegie is passing from th haphazardness and thoughtlessnes of infancy into the thoughtfu 
seriousness of manhood. Tin. student must adopt the same at­titude in regard to his Alma Mater 
by becoming more serious abou’ its traditions and more . cognizan’ of the glorious background ol Carnegie. It is true that students of a technical institution are study ing with a definite purpose ir. mind. This characteristic of the students should reflect tho ctiarac ter of the institution they attend-- just as the so-called type reflects the character of huge state universities. W. L
You’ll always have the
if you buy shoes 
quality, fit and style 
of judging them by price — at 
least that is true of Nisley’s 
because only in high priced 
shoes can you equal ^ 
them, in fit or beauty $/g/ /
Pumps available in about 30 bccl hugging 
atylcs include the charming Peggy pictured la 
Raven black suede, Javanese brown 
or Burgundy.
Every girl should also have n white molra 
pump or sandal that may be dyed to 
match her formal.
533 Liberty Avenue 
6016 Penn Avenue
More than half of the persons 
listed in “Who’s Who” are college 
graduates. In the new edition of 
“Who’s Who,” Pennsylvania is 
second only to New York in pro­
ducing persons of fame. Women made a stronger showing occupy­ing one-fl£teenth of the places in 
the register.
“The Last Mile” Opens 
Thursday At Fulton
One of the truly great problem plays of the day, “The Last Mile,” reaching heights of suspense and emotionalism previously untouch­
ed- by a motion picture, opens Thursday at the Fulton Theater.Is capital punishment justified? 
The relentless and ruthlessness of “The Last Mile” is holding audi­ences spellbound in its mighty 
dramatic answer to one side of the question as it drives home like a sledge hammer the prisoner’s side of the machine of man-made jus­tice called “capital punishment.”With a cast of stage and screen players which includes Preston Foster, Howard Philips, Daniel 
Haynes, Alec B. Francis and many others of equal note, Sam Bischoff has directed this World Wide pro­duction of “The Last Mile” to a terrific, smashing climax.
iK Thur'ING I IIUI ¦
Mightier Than the 
Stage Play
Bad checks were passed around 
at the University of Missouri at 
the rate of seventy-five a day last 
year, the Rensaleer Polytechnic in­forms us.
Avenue Cinema Brings 
Back German Operetta
That an appealing tune can make 
the whole world kin was never 
better demonstrated than in the 
current showing of “Zwel Herzen 
im % Talct” (Two Hearts in Waltz 
time) now at the Avenue Cinema 
Theater where the famous oper­
etta comes back for a return en­
gagement.
On the strength of its lilting 
tlieme-song, New York theater­
goers first became acquainted with 
this gay Viennese operetta with 
the result that it ran for fifty-four weeks in that city.
The picture offers two hours of entertainment seldom afforded by the “talkies.” So that all may en­joy its romance, explanatory Eng­lish titles accompany the show­
ings.
AN UP-TO-DATE EATING PLACE FOR PARTICULAR PEOPLE
Jack's CoSEee Shoppe and Restaurant
TABLE. BOOTH AND COUNTER SERVICE SUPERFINE COOKING
TELEPHONE: SCIIENLEY 9331 
327 SOUTH CRAIG STREET PITTSBURGH, PA.
QUALITY FOOD COOKED AND SERVED AS YOU LIKE IT
PICTURE
Menn mustba 
lir yopwhv
------------- With -------------
PRESTON FOSTER 
HOWARD PHILLIPS 
GEORGE STONE
And a cast of Highly Distinguished 
Stage Stars.
RED DRAMA FROM A HELL HOLE OF IMPENDING DEATH 
A story of men who dare be­
fore they die. The death house where society snuffs out the 
lives of them it Has COndemn-orl
drr aBrT3 Pvg
mE91Pvr • • « Syc can
... with Greyhound 
Fares Now So Low...
R
OLLING along golden highways to the 
year’s great football games—you have a foretaste of the zest, ;the thrill and color of the contest! The saving in fares runs into dollars. With more frequent daily schedules, you will be hours to the good. Lots of warmth and comfort — congenial fellow-travelers.
And listen! Why not get your own jolly crowd together and charter a special coach right to the stadium? Even greater savings, this way.
Don't forget—this same splendid service for everyday trips to all parts of America.
Mr. Hepler only authorized Student Bus Ticket Agent at Carnegie Tech
SPECIAL 
Round Trip Fare
Notre Dame 
Game 
Only $10.00
Provided Sufficient 
Reservations Are Made 
Immediately.
See Mr. Ilepler, 
“Y” Club Room 
2 p. m. to 5 p. m. 
or
McGill Hall, Room 215 
7 p. m. to 9:00 p. m. 
Phone: Schenley 90G8
nsr tobacco that is
cut best for pipes might 
be termed "whittle cut” or 
"rough cut,” like Granger. 
It requires a type of tobacco 
different from the tobacco 
used for chewing tobacco 
or cigarettes. Then again, 
Granger is made by Well­
man’s Method.
Granger has a pleasing 
aroma. It is slow burning 
and cool. Just try it!
’acco
YOU CAN DEPEND ON A LIGGETT & MYERS PRODUC
