jlen must be at liberty to 
6ay in'pnnt whatever they have in mind to 6ay» pro­
vided it wrongs no one.
—CHARLES A. DANACaruedic aTartau
? *£+
Today’s Editorials*. ; -; 
A Puppet Show 
Support the. Champions
VOL. 29, NO. 22CARNEGIE INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY* PITTSBURGH, PA.TUESDAY, MARCH 26, 1935
Two Ballets Offered 
By Carnegie Students 
Next Monday,Tuesday
Cast for Performances 
Is Named; Staging 
By McNaughton 
PRODUCTIONS BLEND 
TO FAVOR SOLOISTS
Myth;
‘Persepbone’InterpretsGreek 
Chromatic Fantasy’ 
Symbolizes Colors
Announcement of the cast for 
li,e ballets “Persepnone” and "Chromatic Fantasy” to be pre­sented next Monday and Tuesday in the theater of the Irene TCauf- imn Settlement house,- and to be iponeorcd by the Women’s Sehol-
presented last year and will ¿¿"repeated this year, is an inter­pretation of o Greek myth. It is in allegorical otory of the death and rebirth of nature. The “Chro- Ballc. Fantasy,” a fantasy of col-
green, purple, and red sym- bo'i-e Blue will , be portrayed is a fairy story or dream, and yellow in a pastoral scene. Green will be interpreted in a fantastic and gro­tesque manner, and purple In a find and mourning tone.
The staging, planned by James McNaughton, Is plain, devoid of decoration. The steps and levels an three dimensions form a back« ground with little motion so that the dancing nay be emphasized as much as possible. The ballet groups blond to form backgrounds for soloists, who in turn act as backgrounds for the; groupe.
William Bales, who performed In the Bacchanalian production several years ago, has returned to Cav- iiepic to dance in "Persephone” as Hades and as Blue of the "Chro­matic Fantasy.”
' Cast NamedMembers of the cast for both productions are: Patti Littell,Ralph Nason, Homer Hull, Bar­bara Kocyan, William Davis, Dra- bclle- MacDonald,' vî-Harry - Lons, Bninhllda Eilers’ Hènry : Kelley, Malcolm Milligan, Georgle Etta Taylor, Rose Marie Grentzer, George Lloyd, MJlton Qoldbloom, Alflen Smith, James- McNaughton, William Canton, Alice Robinson, Helen Bretzfelder, ' -Mary > Cheffeyr Wllmn Melse, Carmellta Jacques, Beatrice Kailnor, Inez Graham, Eleanor Stern, Frances.Tiegel; Tod Egli, Eleanor Bothwèll, Janèt Pat­rick, Leonore Bissinger, Thomas Koehler, Drew Dam, and William
Tickets for the production. may
buildings. Martha Demms ’36, is In charge of the sale of tickets on campus.
Four Architects 
Receive Awards
Carnegie Students Kate High 
In Various Competition
lecture have received award: ccntly ic various contests.
William Trimble '36. student in the Department of Architecture has... jied jlener~of 'aTlilyprize ofltered by the American- llln:' minuting Engineering Society. .Tlie subject of ...the. .coni petUIpn .entered *as "A Savings Bank.” : ’ '
The interior and exterior of'the ¦bank were to be Illuminated in a modern way! Mr." Trimble’s solu- s selected as one of the bet- ler ones from a group submitted by students of the leading architects ral schools of the country. In addi­tion to winning the illuminating Prize, the problem was awarded a medal by the Beaux Arts Institute ot Design.
Gene J. Mackey ’36, student In the Department of Architecture lias been selected.as one of the ten finalists who will compete for a prize offered by the American In­stitute of Steele Construction, Inc., in its seventh, annual Bridge De­sign vcmvpetitiou. The problem was a steel grade crossing elimination bridge and the competition was open to all engineering and archl* teciurai students from any recog­nized technical'school. The prize ofTered as a continuation of the efforts of the A. I. S. C. in energ.iz- lnF improvement In the aesthetics °f steel bridge design.
Delores Tavano ’37, student of in­terior design in the Department of Ai ciiityvctufe AiSs recently •awardcd- a second medal by the Beaux Arts institute of Design for her design of j! group of modern table fixtures. Tuo group contained a l^mp, clgaret case, a,nd ash tray.
Roderick Jones, Instructor in ike ¦«IKu-Lment • of Avchitecture has been named a finalist in the annual Home prize competition. The Rome Prize }s considered the best archi­tectural scholarship given in this country. Mr. Jones "will compete* w the prise against 'nine other
P. Delta Epsilon 
To Hold Smoker
Pi Delta ¿Ipsilon, men’s
fraternity house.
The affair is an annual one and is held in order to ex­plain to students interested in working on publications the activities and purpose of the organization.All men who have served for two years, on any publi­cation are eligible lo attend, and Invitations are being sent to them this week.
There will be-refreshments served, and o: speaker will be present, although he has iiot yet been selected.Pi Delta Epsilon Is a na­tional men’s journalistic fra­ternity, whose aim is to raise
Annual Talks 
To Freshmen 
Are Planned
College Heads Advise 
Students on Choice 
of Department
Dr. Charles Wntkins, director of 
Margaret MorrJson, will address 
the freshmen of Margaret Morrison 
in an assembly at 11:30 next Tues­
day.
He will discuss the nature of the 
work of the various departments, 
how the student can judge which 
line,of work she Is best Bulted for, 
and the placing of graduates from 
the: various departmentsr_;;The rest, 
of'the’’ hour:will be - open 'to ques­
tions and discussion. " .
Dr. W. N. Jones, director of the 
College of Engineering, and'Dr. R. 
M. Ihrig, dean of freshman engi­
neers will speak- at the same time 
to the'freshman engineers.in room 
218, Engineering ball.
Dr. Ihrlg will explain the. pro­
cedure for the week of April. 3-9,
-ments they wish to enter.. .The heads of departments, will, be .avail­able for iuterviews during this week at definite scheduled periods. Also, the freshmen will have, com­pleted, by. this time, an inspection tour of all the departments, which
lege of Engineering curricula.Today copies of a pamphlet en­titled “Suggestions Concerning the Choice of a Course in Engineering!’ will be distributed to the fresh* :men.-Additional copies, may fce-íob- tained at the registrar’s office.
All Margaret Morrison and En­gineering freshmen, are urged., to attend tftese asseraWtep.,,...........
Transmitter’s Club 
Begins Broadcasting
mltter aatisTactory and schedules will be set up this "weeks"
.' • The CTATC urges all associate operators' tb take advantage of the
10:30 o’clock in the Tover Machinery hall. These courses ere conducted by Sergeant Dobbs, De- partment bf Military Science and Tactics, and offer a splendid chance for learning the code, as well as for Increasing speed.
j Campus Broadcast |
Three radio programs will be pre­sented from the Exhibition rooin this week, under the, direction of Carl’M. Dozer '36.. (1)Carnegie Tech Presents Today 1:30 to 1:45 The Department of Drama will
eration will be featured speaker, The winning fraternity from the Greek Sing and Swing will present 
tbeir songs.
Thursdays-1:30 to 1:45 .- A musical-program will be offer­
ed with Margaret Probst, cellist, and Annette Roseneon, pianist.
Delta Upsilon 
Wins Annual 
Greek Sing
Beta Theta Pi Is Second; 
Winners Are Victorious 
For Second Time
SIX FRATERNITIES 
ENTERED CHORUSES
Two Professors, Glee Club 
Directors Act As Judges; 
Dance Followed
Delta Upsilon social fraternity 
was awarded 'first place last Frl- 
(lay evening in the annual Greek 
Sing and Swing 'sponsored by the 
sixteenth Dragons, men's senior honorary society. To them a beau- lirully engraved silver loving cgip will be formally presented during
a great many, fraternity fraternity men andt women, was held in the Gymnasium. A special platform, fittingly decorated for the occasion with ferns and pashns, was constructed on one side of the arranged in
short' concert by the. Men’s Glee Club, consisting of several Car­negie songs. The Greek Sing then followed with sis fraternities com­peting. Those fraternities which entered teams in the Sing were: Beta Theta Pi, KappaiSlgma, Delta Upsilon, Delta Taa Delta, Pi Kappa
'elve-man chorus, directed by Norman L. Brown ’35. .On the team were: John Burns, Car)Bochmo, Rohovt Hall, first tenors; John Baker, James Wohlsen, Les- Walkenburgh, second ten-
i Haller, Austin Hiller and John
Dead Men” and “Hall Delta Up-
fessor of modern languages; Prof.
A Puppet Show
THE SITUATIONI
N ALL forms of government, be they Democratic, Social­
istic, Counnuuistie, Fascists or monarchical, there exists 
always- a.small, group; vi'orlcnig from within, which seeks 
control of the government-, ¡Student government at Amer­
ican colleges, following the principles and traditions upon 
which our nation governs-itself, is democratic. Yet, despite 
the idealism that oue generally associates with ond expects 
of. the activities of youth, tlus tendency toward oligarchy 
has became particularly apparent on tlie college campus.
At Carnegie that‘tendency has long since ceased to. 
exist. It has become an established fact.- To all outward 
appearances Carnegie’s government, too, is democratic. 
Actually it is .oligarchical.
TUE OLÌGAHCHY 
It might be termed paradoxical that this negation ot 
true democratic govcrnmenV-e.xists because of Ihc activities 
of the ranking organization, on the Carnegie campus—the 
Dragon Society, men’s senioriclass honorary.
Dragon chooses its members on a basi.s of activities, • 
leadership arid character. Jta members generally include 
the outstanding men on thé-cnmpus iu cxtru-cuiTiciilar ac­
tivity. Many of these men have seats on Student council. 
.In. fact, it may have been entirely by accident when it was 
first discovered some time a£o that, there were a sufficient 
number of Dragons on Student council to invest that group 
¦\vitli complete control over the governing body.
When that realization occurred the oligarchy began. 
It has been maintained by tjìe pursuance of au unwritten 
policy that Dragon pledge '¡enough members on Student 
council every year to pròvidè it with control.
To make complete and all embracing the power it exer­
cises over Student council and henne over all student activ­
ities, members of the Dj-agon;Society hold all the important 
chairmanships of committees#
Consequently Student council meetings have degener­
ated to mere formalities. All matters have been gone 
, through, all/decisions already been made. It remains for 
Student council to. say “yes’* or “no” to everything as 
previously deciclcd upon. And it does because it must. 
Student council and Dragon liovc becomc synonymous and 
the whole affair is just A.PUPPET SHOW 1
Were Dragon society on inactive honorary, there 
would perhaps be no complaint or chance for protest. 
There is no intention here to berate the activities of the -in­
dividual members. * For those services they deserve honor 
and recognition.
Wp do condemn, however, the fact that they function 
actively as a group and that one of their chief objectives is 
to further their own ends financially.
We do not intend to point ont. definite instances'where 
there has been a misuse of the power Dragon possesses. 
The purpose of this editorial emphasizes what becomes in­
creasingly obvious, once one knows the facts—that with 
such a condition existent—such a combination of, position 
and objective, the entire setup is befrought with POSSI* 
BILITIES for irrcgul^ it inherently rotten.
:V'SVr,rAs'fkrW^
show that advantage has beeni taken .of these possibilities.
. But there is no doubt in our. minds that tlie condition 
is, nevertheless, an unhealthy one, and as long as .it exists, 
democratic government at Carnegie will continue to be a 
myth. . - ' .' , ' __________'
Colleges Will 
Elect S enate 
Heads April 9
Petitions Due Tuesday; 
Registered - Juniors 
Are Eligible 
ARTS SCHOOL RULES 
HAVE BEEN REVISED
New Regulations Give Girl 
Yice-Preeidency ; Ballots 
Will Be Separate
rated scholustlciilly its juniors t
iber or vote« shtul be declared rlce-president.
Arts Rules Revised In the college of Fine Arts tli
the vice-president of the College
class. This rule has been chnnged by the Arts senate this year. Hence­forth the vice-president of the se>\ior class will be elected In ac­cordance with the clase election rules of the College ot Pln9 Arts,Under the system which has been instituted this year tho elections in each college will be under the supervision of their respective sen<- ates. The vice-president of each senate will be in charge.
President of. Student council will be chosen from the presidents nnd vice-presidents of the '
23.
Election Rules1. Written petitions signed by 25 persons of the respective col­leges must be submitted.2. Each signer must be a mem­ber,.of, the electoral, group for .^hich-HbfrSRetltion^namee'-thfr.'Of' flee.'
< than .one petition for éach
'§tudent'M6&el&\&i&play'. Collegiate.
-- Styles at A nnual Fashion Show Friday
Che9 'Walters’ Orchestra 
To Play for Dance, 
Style Parade
Ches Walters’ dance band has been engaged' -for thé - Combined Style, Show and dançè,- ; sponsored ¦bÿ thé Carnegie Tàrian'-'this Fri-- day 'èvening in the 'gymnasium,
Style Show which, will be held in' the North end-of the gymnasium. The settings will portray a night club entrance.
"^NlneteeirBtudeut -models pear on the stage wearing the new-
dressing rooms for- the models. Each ot the models will enter the. styling stage from the night
nnouncer .will describe the gar- and furnishings which are 
being worn.- Will Install AmplifierAn amplifying system will be in­stalled to make it possible for the announcements to be heard clear­ly in all parts of the gymnasium. Julian T\ Munster ’35, director of the Style Show, wills be behind the microphone and will do the an­nouncing.During the modeling of the col­legiate styles Ches. Walters’ .band., will play softly from a band stand at one- side of the night club en­trance. Colored lights will illum­inate both the stage and the or­chestra.Featured anong the ten mu­sicians who comprise Walters' liahd is Dick Stern, well-known Pittsburgh Vocalist and guest artist
JweJi. sjjigltlg^witlrLeo Relsman and his band in their appearances 'at New' York. Cleveland, and Pitts­burgh. Stern is among the flnal- sts-ln the nation-wide Kate Smith ocal competition.
Is'aTifi-mer 'Sianlef - titeeier- sician. For over a year Walters' orchestra has been broadcasting regularly at 9:15 Sunday-evenings. rer stations WJAS and KQV. pro-am managers-at the local (Continued on ?age Four)
People You Ought to Know...
. By Clifton P. Bflutel
Dr: Roscoe M, lhrig9 Dean and Director
“I wish-I had.more'time to devote to my roses,” complains 
Dean Roscoe. M. Ihrig. In- the-few, breathing spells.that his du­
ties as Director of: General-Studies and Dean of .Freshmen, m 
the College of Engineering leave-him, Dean Ihrig-drops his role 
of educator and becomes horticulturist. His.hobby is the culti- 
vatiou of asses.---'--" —.......Dr. 'Ihr/g’a- successful venture Jn:‘
of Carnegie as -^n .-asstetiiat pro-
Department- of -ftfo-do m.—r<.i r.~ guages ot the College.of Engl-
Dr. Ihrlg He received his Ph.M. and Ph.D. degrees from the University of Chicago where he held a teachers' fellowship?-
sociated with any other'profession.-Members of tlie: administration -.«id-faculty h«’’e elected biro chair­man of the Educational Senate of the school. This body controls the educational policies of the -instltu-
When iii 1918 the. language dV pavtments of the four colleges were grouped under the Division of Gen. eral studies Dr. Ihrlg dth appoint­ed head of the Department-of Mod­ern Languages. ' •
In 1918 tiie first summer session titeid- Tsritb-Or.-lkrig- in char-;
in .1331 when he gavç ùp the di­rectorship, summer • sessions had become an; inlegral part of : tlie school’s educational program.. ^_J£_iomia^5(?_.shou]d._give Dean Ihrig funds to be used for ¦what 'he believed to be the mo'jt needed im­provement os.the campus he would ask. for .increased library facilities
Hut-and Arts gchool libraries nf-
meu 1920 hei’was appointed Direc­tor of the Night School and ln 192A he became director of the Division of. Qenerai studies.....Dr. Ihrlg Is Dean of the Freah- men In the College of Engineering. His . office prepares the school cal­endar and arranges the scheduling of courses.He feels that the student body at Carnegie has developed a much keener Interest in the field of gen­eral education than was apparent In- bygone years. “Jt was a pleas­ure to see the crowd which gather­ed in-the Little Theater to hear Dr. Charles Beard. Fifteen years ago,” says Dean Ihrig, “we would have had to drag them to such a meeting.”¦ . Phi Beta Kappa and Phi Kappa Phi,. national scholastic honorary fraternity keys, dangle on his watch chain. Ilcis a member of Sigma Alpha Epsilon, national so­cial fraternity, and Phi Nu, night school fraternity.: Dean Ihrig Is mentioned in “Who's Who in the East'1 - and in ’‘Leaders, of Education.”. Work holds no terrors for him but* he is fearful that too much work will interfere with tils rose growing. He is a member of the American Rose- Society. vMle_.is_an..aCCftTOD.l.ishcd. linguist. During the hustle and bustle'of registration ho .has been known to write notes in a foreign language to department heads asking - to have-students’ schedules .changed. He leaches classes! in German, and has published several technical 'anai'tfTefitmcGermsm-tvixtST-------
:. Dean Ihrig is a> trombone player. •At one time he was the director of :a higli school orchestral. "I still
Fifty Cents Per Couple 
la Admission Price To 
Show and Danec
' Nineteen student-models, ten wo­
men and nine men, will display the 
very' lateet collegiate styles for 
spring, and . summer, wear.- at the. 
Second Annual Tartan Style show 
which will be held . In • the .gym­nasium and Thistle hall this Fri­day from 8:30 -to 1:00 o’clock,
.As pavv of-'the-6lyIc-~5lio'w a dance will be held In-Thistle hall following the inodellnp: ot women’s clothes.and men’s clothing and fur-
cast a brief description show and will broadcast' the danceIp-TbJBtle. hall, from .10;.lA.to.l0j 30--ln a setting of varl-colored light-ing effects-, soft, rhythmic tunes, and scenery suggestive of a fashion­able night club the models will dls-play fashions and fabrics represen­tative of the current mode In col­legiate warm-weather dress.
Tickets-.50 Cents Tickets for the combined show and dunce “are on sale, for fifty cents per couple. Cooperation of
low price possible. The tickets may he secured in the Christian Association office, from any
Cel. Fairley,- .superintendant of buildings, and members of the De-
the arrangements and executing the stage settings.
Julian F. Munster ’35, business
tlve for the Tartan Style Show. It is felt that the . visualization ot what the well-dressed college youth will wear will ' guide style con* sttentipusneBs .'which .is becoming mqrè apparent, on the Ajuerican 'col-Jegft.camBfts^;___j_.____________
' À second purpose is,to*add to the spring social calendar a major function at a' low price and In con; junction with what 1s felt toj.be a : (ContlnUed^Çrom Çage Two)
Student Council Passes 
Fraternities Petition 
For Control oí Danee
Chapel Speaker
of the Shadyslde Presbyti ohurch, who win mawe the chaper address In the Little Theater
Dr; H. T. Kerr 
Will Address 
Chapel Today
“Tragedy of Not Living” 
Is Suject; Lenten Music 
Planned
Dr. Hugh Thomson Kerr, pnBlor 
of the Shadyslde Presbyterian 
church, Is the guest speaker this 
morning at the chnpel service. He 
has chosen for his subjoct ‘‘Tho -TrnKGtly of Not Living.” The serv­ice.will be held In the Little thea- Lev in the, College ot Fine Arts at 11:30. Dr. Watkins, acting presi- ¿efll, 'wJnTpreiiJd'eiV--^-^'';'^^
Mrs. Margaret S. Stockdalc, so­prano soloist of. the Shadyslde Pres­byterian church, will sing two solos, he music.will be in keeping with ie Lenten season. Earl Mitchell organist and ' choirmaster, of tho Shadysldo. Preabyterlan chufch will accompany Mrs. Stockdale on • the.
Teknon. Gponeors
. .. . Ice. This organization ,holds weekly meetings at Shady? 'side church and Its discussions are led by Dr. Kerr who founded the Chib fifteen years ago. The i
Junior,' and senior classes.
. Decorations Planned The committee, in charge of the
abroad.
Dr. Kéfr is nota Etranger tu liviì campus. He Is a- .regular • speaker
Girls^oJlaneet-Play6
A t Gym Demonstration
The Department of Phyelcal Eci- ucstion will give Its blcnnal demon- str&Mon on Thursday, April 11, at 8 o’clock In the. Men’s Gymnaaiurp. The exhibition is given for parents and friends of students at.Carnegie. All’freshman and sophomore girls
department, including folk, tap and creative dancing, Danish Buch gynv
Coming Events
' "Offset- Pilntlng” — i
Shaw—Little Theater. Thursday—12:30°—Piano Recital, Eavl.'Wilcl —Exhibition room.. •1:30—:Science Colloquium,:.J. ,3'.....Svirbl.ey,-Advances inVitamins”—Cornegie lun:-'8:30—“Getting Married”—X*iltlc Theater.Friday^--'''12; 30—-Phonograph Recital;- hlbltlon tom.¡SrSO^r'VSettlng , Jfarried,,--lLittle
.'";T;Heaterr‘.Saturday^-. >-, \.10;3p^-Codo fn, Instruction, Ser- v. geajit; Dobbs-1—Tower room/, Ma- >:v.cbineryvhall/.'i,
Interfraleruily Council 
To Handle Finauces 
Of Annual Ball
ORIGINAL REQUEST 
ALTERED SLIGHTLY
If Agreement Is Brokcu, Student Governing Body Takes Over Affair
Student council lust weok approv­
ed with some alterations Interim- 
ternlty council's petition for . il-' 
nunclal control of ttie Inlcrfrater- 
nity forniul, terminating a‘dispute 
of threo weeks’-duration. This wasVi 
in line with the,uniloretunding. the.
©d t........ —...---- ---------- T—ailmlnlstrutlvo controV of tho lntev-, rraternlty formal" rcithor than Ho| all functions sponsored by the- In»- 
lerrratcrnlty council:A provision - was Inserted in' which Student councll'resorved the rlplit to take over tho Interfrater-' nlty normal If the Inlerfraterhity- council falls to.live up to its agree­ment on the handling of finances.
The complete organization out­line for tho financial handling ot the Interfrutornlly'funds follows:. •1. $ookkoeplng:a. Cash recoiptB and- dis­bursements journal.b. Vouchor register.3. individual members led­ger.d. Checkbook.2. Authorization of all oxpendl:. lures by the council.
3. DuhI signature check system^ consisting of. signatures of .the treasurer ot the Interfroterhlty :• council and tho faculty adviser.'of •the Intorfraternlty council.
4. Books kept by the treasurer," open to Inspection by any member liv good standing of a recognized fraternity. •
. 6, Financial report by the.Inter- :fraternl,ty;."ÇQuntlll!l:treRBui'eT'toithe council - at -oach regular meetliig.
G, At the. end of each school : year, a complete /JnaDdar report presented to the- Inlerffalernlty ' council and Inoluded ln the mln- utes,. of that meeting which: are sent to. the member fraternises. -; ' '
When asked.for a statement-,con-- corning the council's fight. William Becker,.president of Student coun­cil, commented. "Both councils-ato to be congratulated: for arriving at an amicable settlement- to such <a-. long-standing . dispute, whlch -is^- satlsfaclory not only to both coun- 
smmt but the administration as well.** .“I am glad that , the’ dispute..la-..
Council Approves 
Recommendation
Asks Executive Board Grant 
iQohday Before Finals '
A- moHofiv.tbaf:._ Rtiidentuy>unc.ll .
_meeuxj^;.QL_Stn.deTit.:cooni*1
a vIcW toward correcting the cal*:-
amlnations . which might < the iflrst day. of the examination schedule. Also to lessen the.'strain and rush that ls:generally.existent-.^; nt the close of.a term when aU-’tá?^ slgnments and term rcparts mustV' be turned In.
The growing sentiment on-thei.; campus crystallized Itself in-al Tar* ' tan editorial printed shortly.,¿fter.i the close of the first semestef/-r
Music Dept. Rental* 
Are Planned for Week
The program' for <he Campus;. Music recitals which are given every Monday, Wednesday/^and.-.s Friday at 12:30 Hi ExhibitipciffisJlSi!;' has been’ ' announced; . Monday^ March 25, at the ‘ phonograpfi?)i*foj: citai the Schumann SyThphony.^ffii^l 4 w«l be given Mr Pearson iig&p-
Strauss’ selected songs wilUbe^sii^d by Lotte- Lehman, Leo-:v-.SleE^l^j Salome’s. Dahie from_”Sal< •“ dances,from ‘‘Der Rosenl Thursday, -March1 2S,- Bai piano recital -wiU-be-:gtveai'; day, March -29,; at 12^30.W'aR Opera "Die. Meieterslnger’ will given at''the' phonograph:Mr.- O'Brien is in -charge,-.

---------------------------------------------------

UTUESMYy MÀKGH, 26,-»351
Drama Dept. 
Offers Plays
Three Matinees Planned 
For This Week
NO TICKETS NEEDED
r.*GettmgMarried”Scheduled 
For Friday Afternoon
Freshmen and upperclassmen of 
>;if department of Drama will pre­
sent Mis plays in tlie Studio theater 
<ji .‘.lie Administration building this 
afternoon and tomorrow afternoon at 3:30 o’clock. No tickets are re­quired.-.Tods classWalter Derdeyn '35 is directing lirst act oC “An Ideal Husband.” f Oscar Wilde’s epigrammati-cal comedies,"Cireen Eyes from Roi one-act comedy Uy John Kirk,y
be presented under the direction of Roy Mlnet ’35: Three scenes from “The Orphans,” o melodrama, will be directed by Dr. Merrill, foliow- ing .tbe (first, part of the play which • was done by‘last year's freshman class.. The casts for these plays include Mary Biggert. SU6an Carl
¦ Jerome Kurtz, Jane Lloyd, Helei. Lutell. John MacKercher, Margaret¦ McM&hon, Camille Muhr, Kathryn Osterbolt, Gloria Ovayle, Thelma Schnee, John Thomas and Theresa. Vetter.On Thursday upperclassmen are presenting three one-act plays. The• first is “The Two Cowards, a melo­drama by Labiche, which will be directed by Marcia Leety ’35. Su-
beth Levinger ’35, and Savage’s .“The Little Prison,” a light com- èdy, by Edward Palkot ’35.
•nell, Eleanor Blosser, Virginia Mai tin, Alice Robinson, Marlon Rich­ards,-Amalia Rose, Benjamin Yaf- feo, James McConnell, Carl Di
Annual Combined Glee 
Club Concert, Dance 
Planned for April 5
Music to Be Furnished 
By LeRoy’s Band 
From 9 till 1
CONCERT WILL BE 
IN LITTLE THEATER
Dance Is Open to Student 
Body; Tickets Obtainable 
From Members
The annual concert and dance 
sponsored by the Combined Glee 
clubs wJJ) be held In the Little The­
ater and Thistle hall on Friday eve­
ning, April 5. from 7:30 o’clock. Bill 
LeRoy and his Town Tattlers or­
chestra have been obtained to fur­
nish music for the dance to be 
given in Thistle hall from 9 till 1.
The Tattlers Iihve played for sev-The Tattler 
eral footballdanthe
pus, having supplied the music for 
the Tecb-Duquesne dance this year. 
In addition, they have played for my out-of-town collegiate proms
City, W. & J., Waynesburg, and' Penn State. The
bers from both Glee clubs, is
’37, Olivia R. Horner ’35, Paul W Koch ’35, E. Denman Kuhns ’3?, Elsie H. McCort '35, Grace C. Metz­ger ’35. Charles C. Ralslg ’37,
The program for the concert will
‘^Modern Youth Has Fewer Illusions” 
Says Noted Historian in Lively Talk
‘History and Technology’ 
Analyzed by Scholar 
In Little Theater
i . • By Louise E. Meixner
. . . “In ^975," said Dr. Charles A.
• Beard when interviewed last Frl- 
; day, .“tho history of todav will be 
...considered as a stof-y of one of the 
' greAt transition periods In the his­
tory of the world, because of the
new principles and values which 
¦¦bare come into being." The tall,
• gray-haired scholar.-. whose writ­
ings are known in academic dr* 
vcles • throughout' the World, spoke 
-last Friday at the Little Theater
-on-.the subject. "Hlstorv and Tech­
nology.” •¦We are on the threshold r.ofran entirely new era. which will• •appear as .an era. of emancipation -..Ip the next century.- "Of course,”-he said, and thero was a gleam of hUEGP in hla eves: "historians are xnot gods: they merely state their¦ own opinions."' ¦. When Dr.- Beard was asked the .significance of Germany’s recent re­pudiation of the Treaty of Ver- ROllles. he stated aunply that “the final repudiation was merely' the . formal announcement of a fact¦ -whlcli. had' beBnJ existing ¦ for some time.-- and that'"the repudiation. will hasten the drawing together of -France. Rusla and Italy.” 'Regarding Hearst. whom he had, -in;.a recent lecture, denounced in sharp. incisive language. Dr. Beiard •.;w£3 asked the most efficient means of combatting the evil Influence.” -- His reply was, "Hearst in not so :• "brave as. we think he la if we fight ::back. To answer your Question, ¿/you must do your part by refusing - id buy the papers, organizing meet** > Jogs, writing articles In your col- ¡:lege, -papers, and writing letters. ?'Ao-viieneJjeie£iy..Jarge..ainount.:.of. . good may be accomplished through ''.these means which are at band.”• --.When asked what improvements slionId.be.made In the teaching-. oC
- takes of the present, the hiato'rlan ¦-.-stilted. ¦‘We must teach a more re- alistlc historv a story of how we've • 'actually conducted affairs, present-
should deal with what those who •-tthirik. - think, and what those who vihinli. aay. - .That,is all that counts;¡f it -Bhould be a story of culture in* deluding technology and. the arts, amot* only the history of politiciansGirllsirr^oJan aaaaaaa. iv'.'Or Beard smiled when he was i -fiiasxed if 'there were anything else which, lie cared to express his -opinion- "That's a large order,” he ; B^i<l, ,Vbut tell them what I said
ogy, Dr. -Beard had pointed out that a union of the two Is essen- tial. There are signs of the merg-
History, according to Dr. Beard, appears-in four forms: actuality,
knowledge from the records, which may be as accurate and authentic as natural science; and written material, consisting of “contem­porary thought about the past d< limited by knowledge of the re< ords of the past.” From these w must select and organize history.
Technology is rational in nature, dealing with the “known, culabio, analytically mathematical method." It Is planful, using blue­prints, and it la seeking for effi­ciency by doing the “greatest work with the least expenditure ot en­ergy.” Lastly, it is changeful, op­erating against customs and the rule of thumb. “Technology is the basis of all western civilization. “
. In combining history and tech­nology, .we must not..err in. apply-
tory is not a progressive, linear evolution of organic particularities. To determina all historic facts in dét€roi{iv¿3£tc-*e<i\ience ts íals<5; ttee physical, biological analogy does a lot of damage to history; we can­not enclose history in a mathemat­ical formula. It- i^ well to remem­ber th,e limits, on our power. His­tory is the thought of the historian •thinking wlthla- his ouUuraL heri«- tage.”
.THE. CARNEGIE .TARTAN .
Published weekly during the col­lege year by the undergraduates of Carnegie. institute of Technology; Entered in the Pittsburgh Ppst Office as second-claBs matter.
Wanted!
Three students -who 
will n e e d Summer 
work.
See Mr. Safford in 
"Y" Club Room
Leads Orchestra
Thistle Queen 
Will Be Named
Artist Will Choose Best 
Looking Junior Girl
Who . is the most beautiful girl 
in the junior class?. One of the fea­
ture sections of the 1935 Thistle 
will name a junior as Thistle 
Queen of 1935.
Selection of the queen will be done by three groups. Faculty and members of the administration will make the first choice. These choices will be reviewed by tbe
the selection, a leading artist will
nouncement of the final selection will be made until the publication of the Thlstle'in May. The section featuring the Thistle Queen will contain pictures and a . story of the junior girl who
staff artists of The Saturday Eve­ning Post. Colliers. Ladles Home Journal, Red Book. The Ameri­can Magazine, and College Rui
Printing Expert 
Speaks Wednesday
“Offset Printing” Is Subject 
-Of 6th Lecture in Series
Burt D. Stevens, first vice-presl- 
dent of the Miehfe Printing Press 
and Manufacturing Co. ot Chicago, 
will deliver the sixth lecture In the 1934-35 series arranged for the Department of Printing, tomorrow, at 3:30 o’clock in Industries build­ing, room 2S1. The subject of his •talk will .be "Offset Printing," pnQ of the Important developments in tbe field of printing.Mr. Stevens is a' graduate of Michigan State and was a chief draftsman for several midweslern machine compuuitis- befov* becom­ing a mechanical engineer at the Mlehle Co. la 1911. He was ap­pointed vice-president in-1916 and became first vice-president in 1928. Mr. Stevens is a member of. .the American Society of Mechanical
ciety of Mechanical Engineers,The Mlehle Company haa been interested in the work of tbe De­partment of Printing ~ for many years and has loaned the depart­ment several cylinder printing presses.
Bacchanalians 
Arrange Show
Proceeds to Be Divided 
With Student Council
They’ll Shaw You the Latest Fashions
PRESENT COMEDY
RecomraendationeArePassed 
Governing Production
Any net' profits resulting fi 
the anuual Bacchanalian show ' 
be divided equally between Student 
council and the Department of 
Drama, the funds given tbe Iuli 
to be administered by Prof. Elmer 
Kenyon for scholarships. Student 
council will also have complete 
financial control of the show, pay­
ing all èxDenses pertaining to the 
producing and staging, according 
to recommendations nassed at a 
recent Student council meeting. 
Tbe chairman of the Carnival com­
mittee will supervise the selling of 
the show for other than the Carni­
val performance. Other recom­
mendations Student council has 
passed regarding the Bacchanalian
1) That the Bacchanalians
all the . ricular activity.(2) That students of the Deport­ment of Drama taking active part
'} (3) That the selection of play material and the final casting of the show will be, so far as possi­ble, made in accordance with the wishes of the Bacchanalians and In consultation with them.Play Chosen The “Saint's Husband or the Shining Armor,” a new comedy by Rosemary Casey. Is the title of the play chosen by the Bacchanal­ians Tor Lhcir Spring Carnival pro­duction.Miss Casey is a Pittsburgh play-
will act as models 
lay night.
ft to right—Mary L. 
E. Conley, Agnes P
Esther M Brumbaugh. Margaret L Sc F. Nichol, Ruth K. Weller, and Elva J. h Back row—William W. Davis, Neal George A. Rial, John P. Provost, WlHia and Robert S. Aaron.
Engineers Suffer Acutely; 
Government Seeks Answer
Project Undertaken by Bureau of Labor Statistics, 
Questionnaires Prepared by Dr. Isador Lubin; 
Forms Are Distributed to 170,000
What can be done to help the 
professional engineer? The facts 
needed to answer this question are 
being sought by the questionnaire 
method.
It is generally admitted that the professional engineer has suffered acutely s ‘ "”'A " *¦ '. full shai ed (
production last :
veryone by a depression, he has suffered an almost' complete cessation o[ practice in the field financed from private and indus­trial sources because of the stop­page oi private construction. It In municipal, county, or state employ, he lias been hard hit by the early collapse of norma! public works construction when it became im­possible to finance such work by the sale of bonds.City Employees Discharged
other professions. Education, years of experience, types oE work,
professional or technical socleti registration In stales that require it, salaries received in the past,
Planned as Full Survey 
To make Lhe survey as compre­hensive and as useful as possible, the form of the questionnaire has been worked out by Dr. Isanor Lu- bin of the Bure&l of Labor Statis­tics with the aid of members of the several engineering societies, selected for theiv experience in em-
In many instances Pl<w»*nt »^IM-
for the Carnival show, but negotla-
The first .production of the Bac-
sented in the Gymnasium years ago during> Carnival week. In 1933 a second musical, comedy, '‘Over the Coals,” was given in the Pitt theater. Last year Miss Casey’s “Love Is Not Important’
performance of thls.waa glvt
The Bacchanalian society Is <
) given for two years of work.
Experimenter to Tell 
Of Vitamin Advances
garet Morrison, will discuss “Re­cent Advances in Vitamins" at the meeting of the Science Colloquium t£> be held*this Thursday ariitSO o’clock in Carnegie Inn. Mr. Svir- bely is at present conducting ‘perlments wlth the elusive vitamin
dergraduates who meet twice a montli for scientific discussion. Following the discussion, a lunch-
We Are Displaying at
THE TARTAN STYLE SHOW
Friday Evening, March 29
Fine Hand-Lasted
MEN’S SHOES
Prices at
$5.00 To $6.75
for shoes for which elsewhere you pay up to $20
- St-j-led foi’- the-diS'Criimiiating foofc -....-...
Some fashioned by Angelo Donnelli.
Made of choice foreign leathers.
aaan
Specialists in Samples and Cancellations of the 
world’s Finest Footwear 
6850 FOBBES STREET TTA,»l x69o
6666e
Further. ____ .have discharged their Civil Service employees, replacing them from re­lief rolls or other sources. There has been only partial reemploy­ment under such government agen­cies as the PWA and CWA. If In the class of consultants, Federal employees, or the teaching profes­sion he has felt the financial strin­gency. If ou relief work, he has
ing; to adjust hirusel? to perfori tasks much belç»w his professional capabilities; 'and to accept; tem­porarily at least, many inequitable conditions.Questionnaire Sent 
Early in March a questionnaire was forwarded to thousands of men - la the United . States who think of themselves its engineers, from sub-professional men-and re­cent graduates to chief engineers
ing. and chemical engineers those in all the many branches or engineering. This project is being undertaken by the TJ. S. Bureau of Labor Statistics at the request, and with the cooperation of the Ameri­can Engineering Council and tbe several • engineering. gocieUeq.'.. More than 170.000 ^questionnaires were sent out, to engineers in all parts of - the country.
The objects of the survey are to determine the factors which con-, tribute . to tenure of employment .and compensation, degree of un­employment, and sources* of reem­ployment; to throw light
CLEANERS
“Step Out” This 
Spring . .
In Last Tear’s 
Wardrobe 
Rejuvenated
by
Consolidated
ForCompetent 
Courteous 
Service, Call
MOntwise 6170
This Coupon Worth 20c
on any Suit or Dross To 6e Cleaned.'
NOT GOÖD AFTER 
APRIL 2, 1935
The mailing list
156 engineering schools, asking that names be sent to society head- quurters.Many Roply
The 1930 census indicated that 226,136 persons In the United States considered themselves en­gineers. Names of 203,000 engineers were sent to the society hea^quar- ïèrs." Elimination of duplicates'1 in the names received reduced the net total to. 370,000, or aboui 75 per cent of the census total for 1930.The questionnaires will be kept absolutely confidential, and did not have to be signed by the-indlvldual returning them. _____________
Hold Tartan Style 
Show Friday Eve.
Students Model Latest 
Collegiate Fashions
(Continued from Page One) 
worthwhile and instructive under­taking.
The women who have been select­ed for the modeling are Elva J. Hendel ’37, Agnes P. Cancelllere '36, Ruth K Weiler ’37, Margaret L. Schultz ’30, M^ry E. Wettach ’36, Esther M. Brumbaugh ’35, Betty Cooper ’37, Mary Lou Mehler, ’36, Lois £. Conley ’35, and Mary P. Nichol ’35.Masculine best-drcssers are L. Roger Burke ‘35. George W. Davis
S. Gischel '35, F. Kenneth Knapp *37, Robert S. Aaron '37, and Wil­liam J. Smith ’35.Patrons who have been asked to attend the Style Show are Mr. and
Lawrence R. Guild, Mr. and Mrs. Vincent G. Parlai, Mr. and Mrs. Homer Sterling, and Miss Virginia M. Alexander.
last week by E. W. Davis, of tbe University of Minnesota, to tbe senate finance committee.
Davis, superintendent of the mines experimental station, said that tests already made with a .piece of.,the paving have Indicated.
amount-of skidding. He said
i industry would be greatly
Arts Senate 
Holds Dance
Hopes'to Reestablish 
Informal Gatherings
COMMITTEE NAMED
Jean Sloane Is in Charge Ot 
Afternoon' Affair
dances, the firet ot which w||| ' ue un Wednesday, Aprlt lo, at 4;3g 
p. m., in the Exhibition hall of the Arts building.
The original Intention of ihggeneral committee, headed by Rose Marie Girentzer, Department oi Music, was to have four informal dances to bring together the stu­dents of tb&'dffferent departments of the College of Fine Arts. Owing to tbe shortness of time left dur­ing the semester, tbe commlttce has decided to reduce the number of dances to two.
Records Furnish Music
Music for these parties. It is ex­pected, will be furnished by re­cordings. The committee has not yet decided whether or not It vll| be necessary to charge those arte students who attend the daace The committee wishes, however! to incur as little expense as pog! Mble.The first of the dances will under the sponsorship of the. etu-.
and Architecture. ____(Department of Painting and sign,' beads tbe sub-committee ’ to
Sometime in May the second ot ¦ the dances will he held. It b&s been planned that the music and
The general committee, ia add|. tlon to Miss Grentzer and Miu Sloane, includes Wilfred Slocum,
ot Music. All these students c members of the -Arts Senate. 
Discontinued Recentlyyears ago the Arts
be, but they were discontinued.The idea to re-establish these so­cial gatherings suggested Itself lo the Arts Senate when much favor­able comment was heard follow­ing the pre-Arts Ball parties that were held last semester.
AIRPLANE SCATTERS TICKETS
University of Maryland- ('MCE/A)—An airplane piloted b; George Brlnckerhoft .of the Colies« Park Airport will drop, circulars . advertising the Military Ball to be held in the- University GymArmory Friday night over the campus Wed- •nesday morning. The studentplck« .ing up the most-.0oaters.v will re­ceive a free ticket' to this affair, one of the outstanding social tunc* tlons - held at Maryland.A number of tickets to the dance; which sell1 for $2, will be dropped along with the circulars. •A furious struggle among Mary­land’s financially embarrassed (s 
.anticipated.__________________
Stymied by a Stupid ?
. . * ár/ÁJ aft
When he starts to read you the story of his life,“From 
Bootblack to Butterfly,’* don't weep» don’t scream. 
Just relax with a sunny-smooth Old Gold. Ypu’ll find 
its mild and mellow tobaccos- as soothing as a lullaby.
AT TRYING TIMESTRY A SMOOTH OLD -GOLD
¦
08482831

---------------------------------------------------

bta iryo6'm6 lrylrop lw6hnrvp dryi» ­gp .CcT
Girls Nominate Thirteenfor Campus Queen; ElectionNext Tuesday
Eight M. M., Five Fine Arts 
Women to Comprise Court
Coronation to Take Place First Evening of Spring 
Carnival; Nominees Listed in Alphabetical 
Order on. Ballots; Rules Changed
Nominees for Campus Queen for the 1935 Spring Carnivnl 
vcre chosen last "Wednesday in an election held in Margaret 
Morrison Carnegie College and in the College of Fine Arts. 
Tbe senior women who -were nominated are: Agnes R. Can-
i ccllicre, Martha L. Demms, Margaret A. Griffin, (Avon Haddock, 
Veronica A. Itlöos, Mary Frances Nichol, Eleanor E. Sher?nd Margaret E. Watters ot Mar-*------------------------------------caret Morrison, and Rosemarie I _ - #Grentzer. Julia K. Hubbard, PatLl wj Wg PQIjVllLittell. Olive Roberts ^and i Madolin |1TJ- ® -L"-** A/CölgU
Students Give
y, April 2, be-1 Fashion Show
linees receiving the nex jiighest number ot votes -will
the Coronation, which will be. on the flrst evening of the Spring Carnival, May 9.Anv registered day student oi Carnegie may cast his vote- in the election. Polling pla< 
eetnblls'ued by ' haltries and the College of
. This procedure varies some- rtial from tlie way in nich the iris were nominated hen only
Accessories, Materials 
Used for Costumes 
Were Donated
The annual fashion parade given 
by the Department of Costume 
Economics of Margaret MSrrison, 
mection with KauTmann’s de­
partment store, will take place on 
day, Friday, and Saturday in Kaufmann’s auditorium on the tenth floor. On Thursday and Fri- iere will be one performance day .at 2:30 in tbe afternoon. On Saturday, tbei
in Marparet- d’ the College of Fine Arts were al lowed to vote.This system of voting is in ac cordance with the revised rules foi
ell last year. 'William Carlson ’36, who is chairman or ; the election committee of Student council, will supervise the elections.The nominations were made der the system devised last year by John Sayles '34, then chain
selectmade 'of tbe entire student body with m regard to the number nominated from either college.As a result, two yeaTS ago, four­teen nominees were chosen from Margaret Morrison and
from Margaret Morrison and five from the College of Fine Arts. The ratio was determined by the num* ber ot women enrolled in. .the two colleges.Alphabetical- lists of the women enrolled as seniors In the Lwo col­leges were used as ballots, make a selection, the voter
linating, said that few voted since they were Interested more In electing tfie Campus Queen
List Changes 
For Arts Ball
Local Bands Favored By 
Committee
at 11:!î:30afternoon.
Divided Into EpsiodesThe style show thiS'ÿear is being planned on a more elaborate scale
iposethe different- fib - fabrics are made.(first episode will center around cotton, showing costumes made of this fabric and the wide sity of its use from elaborate evening dresses to simple bathing
ind episode will be com­posed of costumes made of syn­thetic, or man-made, fabrics.The third episode will show cos­tumes made of woolen materials.ist episode will be a grand finale of silk costumes of every type. This group contains a selec­tion of evening dressés.The ;...................
and have been chosen from the fabrics in their collection. girls in the show have made the costumes as school projects, and each one* will model her own; work. PrlzeB are. being .offered, by Kauf- for the most successful cos* lûmes. The store Is also furm’sh- Ing all accessories, such as jewelry, hats, bags, and parasols.
Manniklirê Listed 
The girls participating display, those enrolled in partaient of CoBtumes Et And the teacher’s training group from (he Department of, Horn* conomics, are as follows: Roxanne Anderson, Anna Mary Baker, MlUlçent Bit>sa,Prenkus, Jessie Brown. Bumgarn Clancey,
Propaganda Is Part of War, 
According to Carnegie Prof.
Belgium Pictures Depicting Mutilated Children Was 
Part of British War Service; Why Did League 
Allow Italian Troops to Sail to Ethiopia?
By Dr, Samuel B. Rose 
Leagiui Is about to denounce 
rearmament. The days ot 
alchemy and tho lodostones have 
not passed; at least not In the 
Held or world polltlefeyA touch of
propaganda i.ia simplify the i 
complex international problems 
pinco
There will he 
ebestra. engaged for tie- 3 S3? Arts 
Ball if recommendations of the 
present Arts Ball committee are 
carried out.
The committee met with Dean 
Keeble, Dean Green and Dean Tar-
' om©endations_. for the 19,37 ..Arts" 
Ball based onthe 1935 Arts Ball.. " 
It was felt advisable to hire a 
local orchestra because the New 
York orchestra engaged for-- this 
year did not put In "in appearance, 
thus necessitating securing a local 
orchestra after tbe published time or open’ •• - - 
Other follows:
2. That there should he more freshmen and sophomores on com; mltteea in order that they may be trained for the ball in 1937.3- A portable' switchboard is greatly needed. Could not one be financed by the institution in the same manner that the orchestra platform, has been financed in the past?II was suggested that tbe 1935 Arts Ball Committee design for the next committee a portable, folding pipe frame around, the. cornice Jn
This would eliminate in the future Uie repeated construction of wood­en frames for'this purpose, ivlth constant likelihood of ' damage to the stone work. In’ making such a frame Mr. Orbin should - he con-at-PPoya 66aaaa
5. Earlier organization of com*
Ethel Emily, Frances Callahan, Jean Henrietta De Haven, _______jphoff,> Sylvia Ftostj- Mar­jorie Fltzhugh, Evelyn Gillespie, Norabelle Gordon, Margie Green, Gwen Haddock, Mildred Hol­lander, Helen Knight, Anna Ladd, Mary Clare Lamb, Margaretta. Lang, Lois Laughlin. Virginia Les­lie, Margaret Lohrey, Jane Lucas, Betty, Mackey, Jane Miller, Mar­tha Moss, Margaretta, Nichols, An­toinette Nugent, Mary Catherine O’Neill, Jeanette Paul, .Ol.tve Jtqpm-
Sutman, Rosé Zita,* S' thy Taylor, Irene Tti Volkweln, Margaret Watters, Mary Weber, Vera Weidner, and Vir­
ginia Yohe.Thereadmission charge for ^ ............. ..... _
the show and it is_open to the maJtlng the house ;public! The taculty ^and ^ ¿ludeulb j ce6s(f)le to the students ^ as
mittees.6- Construction should be started n the free period between the wo semesters, as was successfully «one in 19S6.7. Promotion work should start 
"I?1 * tefl'assemlbly in order that freshmen may know of the eT«nt as far in advance aa possible, Plan for It It was . unanimously recom-led by th< ...........-M iett Arts ]^agement beAttended in order to-meet the.re- 
«S!5wnwit of the Administration• 1 a certain amouct : of money.
and tlie saviour^ of lily wns clear cut. There was. scintilla of doubt.
___¦ troubled to discover thatthe. Gormnn alrocllles in Belgium,
enslaved twenty million natives of tho Conrjo, that the bestial In­humanity of the Belgians toward
Thirteen s lion held I of Fine ArU. Back row,
E. Watters, Mary F. Nichel, Rose- Marie
; Wednesday in 
t to right—Agni, Julia K. Hubbard,
Brown House 
Plans Proceed
explained '.tçm*
Trustees View Proposed 
Activities Building
For the first time the..Board of 
Trustees investigated the actual 
possibilities of changing the Brown 
house Into a Student Activities building. Last Thursday two mem­bers of the Board of Trustees, Wil­liam Frew,' chairman of the Stu­dent Activities Committee, and Augustus K. Oliver were conducted through the Brown house by Wil­liam E. Becker ’36, president of Student council, and William Lands- berg ’36, chairman of the Activities Building committee, porary plan* them.
These plans accommodate 1 following facilities in the Bro* house. The flrst floor will be used for recreational purposes and will ‘house a grill,- a lounge, a game
rooms; Puppet, Tri-publication,and Tblslle offices.The student committee intends to proceed with the following plans: First, to interest the Department of Architecture in holding a con­test among its students for a solu­tion of the problem of the approach - * kith the ob-
Old King Coal Goes Under Knife 
As Carnegie Men Turn on the Heat
By Emery. E*;-m*A
Early' in the summer of 1930 the 
Coal - Research Laboratory at Car-: 
negie started work. Certain edu­
cators and industrial leaders, com­
bining ideas and resources, had 
made Its birth possible. These 
men. well-tuned to the spirit of 
progress, felt the necessity of in­
vestigating the mysteries of coal, that remarkable chemical substance with which we heat our buildings, drive our engines, melt our steel and operate our factories and from which we obtain synthetic dye- stuffs, separate commercial gases, extract medicines and derive a thousand ‘ other useful products. Yet, 'strangely enough,"many'of'Its properties and reactions, much ot its composltlpnand formation had been, and are today, but vaguely explained.The Coal Research Laboratory was, from its inception well or­ganized; its program clearly de­fined. In the latter part of June,
'ound the problem, of t “Mechanism of Thermal' Decompo­sition ot Coal.” In the m plan has been adhered to.
... hand before a decision is reached about the holding of ball, that at least one-third of the amount called for in the budget of shall be in the hands ce surer of the Student cou: -w less than four weeks b< fore the date of the hall, which -would be approximately January .16; If the ticket for the ball is set at four dollars one payment ot a dollar should be paid at some time prior to the Chiciatmas-recess; second‘ -payment of „one dollar should he made before January IS (four.weeks prior to the ball), and the final payment of two dollars at such time prior to the ball as the committee may elect. It Is under- 6too-d- iR- this- connection that no expenditures for the ball shall be made . or .contracted for prior to ther date, (four weeks In- advance of the event) on which it Is deter­mined whether sufficient money has been collected to warrant ade- claion on the part of Student .coun­cil- that preparations for the ball 
may go forward.9. That a stithe admission t._— ____ _holdey to enter Exhibition hall for refreshments and the cab&ret'sho'w.¦ 10. That tlie checking c.onces- sion be in the hands of the Arts Ball cqgkmlttee, inasmuch as every possible source of revenue is needfed to'meet the budget’’of the 
ball.Vl.'That tire- committee .select .a
group of checkei -------.students who'have. .... for the success of the ball, but who cannot' afford *-—• -» 
checkers are 1 and In relays,
sible; and second, to obtaln^-an ui biased report truly representativ of the student body’s ‘ ‘i equipment (exclusive of .laboratory I supplies) has provided ' thir- ' well-equipped laboi-atorle.s anc Iberniate machine shop.for.tlie
tnir.i.ion of ^eedetl apparatus. The resent staff numbers' twenly-eeven. of whom, seventeen are members of the technical staff, one is a- Fellow-
tory and office assistants.” And further on; “To date twenly-lwo papers, representing contributions the laboratory to the scientific literature, have been published.’’
With few exceptions the prob­lems undertaken in the laboratory boor some close relationship to thi . -al problem. These investiga­tions may be grouped under three
(1) Inquiry Into the. chemical constitution of coal(2) Quantitative nnd qualitative ' of
(3) Determination of the energy relationships in (1) and (2). Re­ferring again to the Progress Re­port. we find: “To ‘‘nderstand the mechanism of thermal decomposi­tion of coal requires P; understand­ing of the progressive changes, from the Initial stat* to some end state, undergone by the coal In the process of applying heat; Knowl­edge of the constitution of the. or­iginal sample of. coal is required In tfrder to deAnn the initial state;' To' date 1 sixteen' pvoòì<i'mv haY« been investigated by of the following experimental methods: oxidation, reduction, hal-
distillation. Results that have .been
understanding of the- chemical molecular structure of coal, artd pointing- to a number of promising industrial applications.'Th* members of the staff, of hlch Dr. H. H. La
Carnegie Prof. 
Re-appointed
Dr. Fittke Serves on Oil 
Production Committee
Dr. Charles R. Fcltkc’ot the De­
partment of Geology of the Collego 
of Engineering has been reap­
pointed this spring to the research 
committee, on oil field production 
methods of the Eastern Division of 
the American Petroleum Institute, 
and to.the CoinniHtçe on Mining 
and Geology of tho American Insti­
tute of Mining Engh
For tlie past three years Dr. 
Fettke' has been working in Penn­
sylvania ' oil fields which 
about to be abandoned. In coopera­tion with the Pennsylvania geo­graphical survey he has been spending his summers for Uie last ten years studying- the improve­ment'of production methods to ob­tain larger 1 amounts of oil and natural gas from the fields of Penn- ay.l,vanii '
the field of geologlcal’appUcattone
rector, have been gathered from the United States, Germany, Aus-
earch laboratory - Is -well sentéd on còmmlttcees of scientific societies and many ’ of its mem-
the Allies are again right, and tho Germans wrong. Germany lms denounced a treaty and de­cided to Increase her amiy. In in­ternational law her position Is do* feasible. Conditions unforseen at tho lime (lie treaty was made liavolisen. The Russian
Rut the Allies are ngrlevcd. Gev-
r.y i«lnii train 500.000 troThe Allies have only 1.500.000 nl- reudv Irnlncd nml equipped. That would bo three to one. so they will appeal to tho League of ••'Nation«- for Impartial judgment -against themilitaryubltlon:ofGem
Blood boiled. Tho i took tho part- of the Al- wicked took the side
•edulltv could indicate tho ire tliev have
it disarmament confove uvfe maneuvered with modest . restraint and accomplished wonders in vulpine ftipaclty. They : have maintained a good reputation.Recently, however, the world be­came suspicious of the Allies. Mus­solini lost liin honor in Ethiopia. The English and tho French ap-v. pnrontly have agreed to let him rocover It by conquering lhis:ln-' iffenslve country. It is no secret. Hint in addition to their honor, the - Italians hope to And rich mineral •eBOurcea. The lost-honor -Incident vtys a border affair in which army »lUcers and observers from a lhlrd r country reported that the Italian;: soldiers wero nbout fltloen miles out of hounds on the Ethiopian side : of tho line.
League Does Nothing 
While tens of thousands ot. Italian troops loaded with equip-,.
.... .... heard of tho fact that a treaty may l>e lawfully/de­nounced under the tenets ot In­ternational law, and that the con­ditions prerequisite lo lawful de­nunciation arose at tho outbreak of the war.Facts Never Published To-have publicized these facts would have contused the situation. It would have made it difficult to lake sides belween tho forces of good and the forces ot evil. If thotho right 
side, they would not fight. We have 
their.
Allies could
i-.-.word for thlB:, _________ ______ .wollfor their 'righteousness and honor; even lo debts, if necessary, they, were willing lo make sac­rifices. The «French and Russians pledged mutual aid and at the end of a victorious war,, the Allies carved six Independent states out of the prostrate body of the Rus­sian empire, an erstwhile ally.
With great delicacy.the Allies re­frained from taking territory for themselves from the fallen foe, hut erected a League of. Nations and gave It jurisdiction over the for* mer German colonies. Then the League, which Is controlled by the Allies, found that the Allies w worthy of * administering these glons. This is called a mandate arrangement • In modern business It would be calledr a holding com­pany system» with hlddeji control and dummy directors.Now after more than twenty
sail for .Ethlopln, . the League of Nations did nothing. Nor does It glvo promise of. interfering.Therefore, In the minds of some persons there haB arisen tho query as to why all this ado about Ger­man armament und so little about the armament race between ..Ethi; opia and Italy. . -.yrIs It again a case of tho per^n-¦ nlal badness of perverse Germany !Gan Germany never be right? In l ; her twenty years in:the...role ot:.^ Mephistopholes, It Is strange that P ; she has never once slipppd. and--.^..
J
Arts Freshmen 
To Hold Party'
Freshmen.In tbe College of Fijio .f Arts will hold a dinner-party, on ? Friday. May 17. -•'••'j
Allan Alperln ’38 Department-of ) Drama Is chairman of the tee which 1A making arran. for the orchestra. An effort' be made to hold the dinner ] oft the campus, preferably In of tho Pittsburgh hotels.Only one invitation "has been
i , 3,
w
Î TWiili.\" I
sued to an upperclassman. Wilfred tp '.*¦ ¡r i Slocum’37 president or th< ecpl*o- more class in the College,'ot:'Flne ?••<Arts has been Invited to the freah* 
man party. __fa
attend it These )rk in costume, that they will ee in which to
dance.
PIPE CLASS
Smlh VO VLb b* PV2apPRINCE ALBERT .,0 MILD - Sd-LGN6"SUeNIN& -SO FREE FROM'TONGUE 1 1ITE"— ITS-THE TO? IN . PIPE PLEASURE ~
JçôP-QliAl/fy Wl LL NOT BITE YOUR TONGUt 
TOBACCO.
CRIMP CUT ^ v ^
6Girls ^oJsGa
THE NATIONAL 
JOY SMOKE I
Spring ’s Smartest Style Function’
. . • thd second annual
Tartan Style Show
FRIDAY EVENING 
MARCH 20
at 8 o'clock 
—In the’gymnat
TICKETS
Men's Spring 
Clothes Fashions 
by Fintex!
. In both Finte:
Suits . . « Topcoats $ 19*50
¿^^CLOTHES

---------------------------------------------------

THE CARNEOTE TARTAN. TUESDAY. MARCH 26, 1935
Men Singers 
To Go on Air
KDKA Will Broadcast 
Glee Club Program
TO SING AT P. C. W.
Other Concerts Scheduled 
By Student Conductor
club Thursday evening fit to 8:30 o'clock.
Paul W. Koch ’35, Department c
for.;ral other performances.April 10 the club -will bo to Greens* burg for the presentation of a varied program al Seton Hill col­lege. Following the sing there will be a formal dance.The club, which has already Jxiven eight concerts, has also been invited by the Pennsylvania Col­lege for Women to participate in l(s annual home concert and 
donee on April 11.Other concerts on the schedule include Tech Night program at the Sixth United- Presbyterian church on April 7; programs at Ihe New­man club, the Juvenile .Detention .home, Mayview hospital, and Grove
Institute Shows 
Modern Paintings
New York Museum Loans 
Lillie P. Bliss Collection
. water colors from the collection of 'modern art recently bequeathed by • the late Lillie P. Bliss to the Mu­seum of Modern Art, New York,
Museum of Modern Art to several museums in the United States, Include a number of'the outstanding masterpieces ot
i 'of French, Italian.-and - Spanish painters, and covers a -variety of subjects, including land- ¦scapes, still lifes, and poi
A Dance from Bullet “Persephone*
Patience, Good Humor, and Months 
Of Practice, Produce Finished Ballet
time
By Eleanor Sherman
“One, two-o, three, four-mm-mm. Once move, start from the begin­ning. Swing your leg out, leap a little higher, lift your arm up each is you turn. There! Ono, threes four. Now, Earl, play,
Or If Earl Wild isn’t there, out come6 the portable vlctrola and the recordings he has made of his piano playing of “Chromatique
The rehearsal goes on -and on. Everyday there are girls and men
eral months and at Inst are within a week of the actual finished per­formance. And are they getting paid for the hours they have given?
satisfaction of producing some- tiling as lovely as tho bnllet. 
Seventy Play in Orchestra 
But the dancers are not the only cnes. The seventy-piece symphony ot
Sunday afternoon they practice the music for the ballets which was orchestrated by Chauncey Kelly. Last right the orchestra played
^Grab from the Grabbers” Theory 
Rules Modern Society Says Author
Kirby Page CiCcß Necessity 
For Replacing Present 
Social Systems
That we are at present living in • a rich society which allows men to V- v "grab'from the grabbers".is the . . conviction of Kirby Page, author • yftnd lecturer who recently 9poko f- -. before a gathering of members of li^.viAhe Student Christian movement• ,U»eld at’-Pennsylvania College for :;v: Women. Speaking on the broad. .> ^.subject, “Christianity and Modern• • .Social issues,'’ Mr. Page dwelt mainly on'the necessity for a com-. . pieté reconstruction of ^économie and social system.
. .' , “The three great disease?, exist- vV•;>nt In society today,” said Mr. X ^age, “are the maldistribution of :• -¿'jnirchasing power, inefficient . natural resources, and wastage due
';':v' t7ie result will be havoc and chaos.<)iie-half of the people in the United •ir. .States do not have enough puvchas- Jug- power to live a., good life; yet
;• - States.. ',;. /ihave starvation The United States is.starving at the same 
vV-- : ¿.Regaraing^clie inefficiency in the
struggle for prr our efficiency has degenerated , :!.tp"an.“efficiency for' exploitation.*' •• •.Out of the'fundamenlal evil of prl- ‘:l.';:>'V^te property grows class wav; iirom class war there evolves-inter- ¿'national; war.' Because of the com- ^• '•petltive profit-seeking of private in- , .-‘c - .tterests in the producing and dis- V.;':ttilrating of goods, we are dealing .’wiitti ‘matters “literally of life and ^deatji.” ¦>”
Sees' Three Possibilities 
.iV^''v:;'.;At pi-eaent and in the olTing, Mv /r, ,.i»a'ge believes that there «ire tbrac types Of government which ma> ^''' i.Bfrobp. -down upon the United (v*. ;v;'§tflte.s. At.. present' we' I •v.Vi'^ew'Deal,' 'which is basei '•^•idea/that there is nothing funda- £;•' .ro'Wtally the matter with capital- Tli* KcW- Daal is tryir^ t v» -. • lure ,th«: excesses and extremes o -'-T^'ittereKistlng systeni. But the fallac; iv^jSnirte' New Deal, thinksiVoàVin ¦thè rbasls of- control.
One evening after I had watched the dancers for a while, I looked around to 6ee what those who were waiting their' turn were doing. Back of the steps and platform used by Jimmie McNaughton in designing the stage sets, 1 heard the quick click of. typewriter keys. Someone was nt work on a theme. Every­where around the room“the per­formers had turned into students— books were being read, lines from coming plays were being learned, tracings' were being carefplly made, French, was being translat­ed..
Suddenly some of them were called by Miss Kitcat to rehearse. As each group in the dance was
and good humor. Time after the sanie steps are gone over,, and Anally the desired effect is achiev­ed.One week from tonight, the two ballets, “Persephone” and “Chro­matique Fantasy'* will be danced easily and gracefully before thé audience, but the success of the performance will come from the thought, time, and effort of these students.
ophy, Q9 set forth in the Sermon 
Mount, a Christian should be vital- 
interested in social Issues which 
irround him on all sides.
Kirby Page is author of fifteen
as an instrument of the basic industries.” The New Deal does lot remedy any of the three afore- Mentioned diseases of society. The New Deal is weighed and found wanting." It will becomu less and less effective and will be followed by Communism, Fascia)
inced thfit we will become move ind more distressed; the need for elief will increase while the ahil- ty to 'satisfy the need will de­crease. -Panic May Result 
The result will bn panic duving which those who control the basic industries will adopt a ruthless rule accompanied by a tendency
Acuities; and Communism, (which must he based the majority) will not succeed be­cause'the United States working class is too small in proportion the whole population, and foie in-iis
. Socialism Is Remedy Socialism, Mr.. Page'belle'1 the only remedy for this condition of ehrtoa. “Socialism cessation of private^ property, by having more of
American Universities Face 
Loss of Academic Freedom
Students Must Fight 
'For Liberty, Says 
College Editor
"The- American campus is faced today with the gravest crisis in Us history,” was the opening slate, ment made by James- A. Wechsler,
talk broadcast over a nationwide network last Wednesday, under spiceB ot the National Stu­dent Federation.
Mr. Wechsler’s subject was “The Legend of Acadeniic.Freedom,'' and he spoke of the “swift, terrifying strides" being made by the forces eaction. which are threatening destroy our last vestiges of freedom.
lie said of the Hearst crusade bat it symbolizes "the perilous dev­elopment in American life, a chal­lenge which we can neither dls- iss nor accept with stolidity" — e menace of fascism.
Reaction Is Problem Concerned primarily with the problem of reaction on the campus, he spoke of the controversies cen­tering there about the Idea of academic freedom, which lias long. 'ieen the battle cry of progressive elements in American education. .
Attempting to define academic freedom, Mr. Wecbsler asked hether it is an abstract romantic notion or a precise concrete propo- be cited rfcent
freedom, and concluded that It is il dynamic social proposition.
'. Weciisle? asked, “Why are teachers who speak forth boldly, who ai-e .sufficiently .courageous to tell the truth about poverty amidst »lenty, cracked down upon by Uni- orsity administrations?" and .an­swered by saying that in each in­stance influential social forces— the foundations of the structure of
trustee arid student is existent. He said further that be- the dominant groups in an education—Boards of is, etc., are drawn from: so- calleri “vested interests,” chosen not for scholastic interests and at­tainments but for financial su­premacy. their hostility to social change'is a natural consequence of self-interest.
As schools inevitably grow move awnre of the inanities and Inequi­ties of the economic system' of the insecurity that awaits every gradu­ate, the trustees, as a group if not as individuals, stand behind Hearst’s interest in preserving the
fechsler maintained that icademic' freedom is not' a philo- ;ophic aim but a clearly-defined venpon conditioned by present ao- ademic freedom today,’
he said, “means (he opportunity to act on the momentous, immediate issues which confront us; it means an instrument for opposing another world conflict; it a method by which we combat the inroads of suppression."
Youth Battles'Destruction He described the youth of today as a generation “battling for -a breathing space in a world crumb-, ling topsy-turvy” arounditg heads, and gave a warning against accept- ing the promises of demagogues such as Long and Coughlin.
Referring to the approaching student strike against tvar and fascism planned for April 12, he 6aid that although it would un­doubtedly arouse opposition, it would nevertheless take place as scheduled, and Involve thousands of students in North and South America. He described the strike and what it represents as a fight for life, a “solemn warning to those who have charted - a. future of death and destruction.”
In closing hfe said that each blow delivered against fascism and reactiou mA a. blow in defence of freedom, ‘in 1776 men.gave their blood to achicve lire, liberty and the pursuit of happiness. Our quest of 1935 has a valiant tradi­tion behind it.
Lightning’s Nature 
To Be Discussed
Prof. Williamson, Physicist, 
Addresses Colloquium
Tuesday morning In room 113 of Engineering hall. All students are invited and welcome. Mr. Wll-' liamson will review work done in South Africa by a physicist in col­laboration with an engineer. Light­ning damage to electrical trans- slon linos arc to be guarded against lunitles, but particular-
in any other populated region.
About forty years ago' Prof. C. V. Boys, the British scientist, pub­lished a design for a camera in­tended to photograph lightning flashes. For some reason, this camera was not constructed until twenty years ago and even after it was built, Prof. Boys had no success with it in England. It was not until he visited in the U. S. In 1926 that he obtained a picture
Professor Boyes, t'ith this lnslrument, many excellent photographs have been made. This camera is nrovided with two lenses which can be rap- dly-rotated in a circular path, the
To Play for Style, ShowWalters’ Band 
Plays Fri. Night
Stage Settings Are Design 
To Represent Night Club 
(Continued From Page One) 
stations commend Walters’ musl. and especially his genuine Hal Kemp arrangements. Walter* saxophone sa^o-three section 7 particularly adept at retuiorin!) Kemp’s numbers. *
Chartiers Heights Country ch has engaged Walters regularly j. has -played for. the Duquesne Aik letic Association dances, Oakland Board or Trade dance which w« attended by GOO or 700 coupes and the Pittsburgh Athletic Associa tlon. He was engaged for a numb» of Pitt dances, the Interfraternli* Ball at the William Penn ” - Pitt Military Ball, and t| All-Freshman dance.
CARNEGIE TARTAN
kli7UnJJ)H-> 
vHPftE-VIEWfe
9 FRIDAY, MARCH 29, 1935 
9 GYM AND THISTLE HAT.T.
© FROM 8:30 TO 1:00 
» FIFTY CENTS PER COUPLE 
m DANCING AFTER THE SHOW*
© CHES WALTER’S ORCHESTRA
where you go
^muouJiíí^Ú^ÁmA
sources and large industv metUöäs'_öf socialism tlon, education, and
Easter Showing . . .
— _ Fine Tailoring Fabrics - ----------
' 360 Patterns
All Leading Styles and Shades ¦
FOR SPRING AND SUMMER "
.From*24*5°
^ BILL CHARLOW SKIBO INN
Honda; and Tuesday . . . April 1 and 2 : ^ SMtoy ig 4^21
Since conflscatioi of private ’ propwty would inevita­bly mean wav, M.r. Page advocates
>ayment could be made in bonds based on the value of the property, wbicliN will bring
Christianity and religion to such ecor.umic and social measure^ M; Page showed that the aim of u religion shoulcl be to better one' own life and that of his fello' man. Since this was Christ’s philos-
I give you the mildest smoke, the best-
You wonder what makes me different. 
For one thing, it’s center leaves. I spurn 
the little, sticky, top leaves... so bitter to 
the taste. I scorn the coarse bottom leaves, 
so harsh-and unappetizing. I am careful 
of your friendship, for I am made of only 
tke mild, fragrant, expensive center leaves.

---------------------------------------------------

THE CARNEGIE TARTAN, TUESDAY, MARCH 26, 1935
THE
TUESDAY 
QUARTERBACK 
© 9 
by JERRY HANSON
New Tartan Mentors | Starting Early With Grid Practice Period
THANK 1
Cage Schedule 
Is Announced
Intramural Swim Competition 
Claims Fans for Two Weeks
City, East-Conference 
Rivals Included
Carnegie Gridders Seen 
Busy in Bowl Each 
P. M. Until May
DE LAWD SPRING TRAINING started early this year. Elgli 
don't blend well with (bis season in the sports ecribbling 
L„i,et—but there's plenty to talk about with the Tartan grldders being 
Lrcised under * “e"' regime.early activities show that Harpster has bis heart set on 5 
laulck Tartan come-back, and rumors of new material for the machini 
in attractive setting for the future. It will be an Inexperienced 
(squad i»i a good many respects next year, but Harpster iB conducting 
1 comprehensive campaign this spring to overcome thlg factor.
You can expect a lot of response from the fellows, for it will be 
the fellows who show the stuff during the next few weeks who will 
have the best claims to berths on the team in the fall—the same goes 
lor Ibe selection of the captain ... ‘may the best man wiu!
•HE WOMEN SHARP-EYES DID IT AGAIN—NATIONAL champions. 
The men’s team had equal chance to shine In the Hearst Trophy shoot, 
mlil some duty-struck stickler Insisted that'certain red-tape regula­
rs be observed. The devil of it Is, that overly-vlrtuoue person prob­
ably imagines himself the bearer of a halo.
case of the--------s idler for the splendid \vork which they have done to popularize that 
sport find the name of Carnegie via the shooting range activities.
II seems that certain officials are kind enough to reward the girls 
or (he rifle team with sweaters, and they request permission to attach 
C’e in view of the excellent results which the team has nurtured with 
remarkable consistency—and of course approval has' been given from 
a» sources—including those from the Dean of Women' down—except 
*ithin the ranks of the organization which supposedly sponsors w 
men’s activities in sports. It’s one of.the silliest hits of phenegling ii 
ijlnable, and there is but one conclusion evident as to the forces 
behind that kind of business—narrow-mindedness, and—I hate 
jl-sour grapes.
(00 HAVE WORDS OF PRAISE FOR SOME Individuals—believe it 
or not. Take Bill Kules*, for Instance, who won the 155-pound Eastern 
Intercollegiate Conference boxing championship
HARPSTER HINTING 
BACKFIELD SHIFT
und decision. Then there’s the sophomc 
«ho got to the finals In this—his,first y<
II Holiday, free style and hack stroke at
ie varsity swimming team—congratulations!
:ek-end, by 
, Wlsnewskl,
• of boxing, 
and new captain-
FOR THAT EMPTY AF'TiSRNOON I prescribe watching the intranju- 
rallies splash in the swim competition. Men only, mind you, until the 
scnti-finals nnd (Inals arc run as scheduled. The latter will be swum 
in suits for the benefit of the public—and if they 
(•selling as the finals of the high school 
strollers would do right well
Reorganized Staff to Try 
Building Offensive In 
Weakened Squad
The lately reorganized Carnegie 
Tech ’ grid coaching stall, headed 
by Howard Harpster, began its spring practice period in the Car­negie Bowl yesterday, which is somewhat earlier than originally planned. Harpster hopes tc ors through about........ training, to last thithe first week and a half in May. a climax to the training period egular game will be played by the Tartan gridders as a feature of the Carnegie Spring Carnival, probably on May 10.
Start From Scratch Equipment lias been issued the Tartan footballers, end plans laid for a concentrated serii Poolings on the grid every after- jon that weather will permit, 'ith Doloway, Croft, Lewis and 1 jhm lost to the team from the | past season, Coach Harpster will be starting from scratch to build up a machine which may success­fully cxecute a schedule which, if anything, will he more difficult than the last. .
Harpster will give his personal attention to building up the back­fleld, and his plans suggest a pos­sible change in the usual organiza­tion of this phase of the Tartan Jine-up. -Fans may see a different formation fighting for “Dear OldTech” next yeor, with a lot of----trick plays directed towards fusing the opposition and bidding well Tor a better, offensive tentr The darnegie gridmen have showi excellent ability on the defense for several years, but the point-getting
DICKINSON ADDED
Schedule Only Tentative; 
Several Games Penditi,
The. tentative schedule for the 1935-3G basketball season has been.......meed bv Couch Max Haumtm.Although all the games have nol as yet beeu confirmed, the sched­ule will in all probability be prac­tically the same as it now stajids. 
The teams which wlll.be met ie same as have been included in the past years, with but one excep­tion. That Is the addition of Dick*
potent ends. The
who have had considerable experi­ence and who show sterling char­acteristics in. the required ability. With Trbovich at center, Bach will find his most difficult problem the replacement of last year’s tackles.
conch of the Tartan freshmen, will not take an active interest on the field until next rail, when the plebe aggregation reports.
-, last Saturday, you park- 
, bring the girl friend in to se
CHIT____________ will be line coach ofthe freshmen in the fall, will as-
_____ the list of schools winch,vill be encountered. The' Carlisle •nitflt has not before been repre­sented on a Carnegie schedule, and ivlll furnish some fresh competi­
tion.The usual city rivals, Pitt and Duquesue, will again be something for the Tartnns to try to 0 In tho Eastern Intorcollegi ference, Pitt, Temple, Georgetown and West Virginia will again be seen as Skibo rivals. Other teams Include Westminster, Penn State. W. & J., Geneva, and Wayncsburg.The tentative schedule:Dec. IS—Wayiiesburg. there.Jan. 4—West Virginia, there.Jan. 6—Pitt, there.Jan. 11—Geneva, here.Jan. 14—Duquesne, here.•Jan. IS—Temple, here.Jan. 21—W- & J., there.
Feb. 14—1Georgetown, here. Feb. 15—Westminster, here. Feb. 16—West Vlrglnlo, here. Feb. 21—Dickinson, there. Feb. 22—Temple, there.• Feb. 25—Duquesne, there. Feb.. 29—Pitt, here.Mar. 4—W. & J., here.Ma. $—Penn State, her«
irotlic-t out.
Carnegie Pool is Scene of 
High School Swim Carnival
in the backfleld Is likely 
trick.Bach Faces Difficulties Joe Dach, Pittsburgh Pro mcntoi 
|anrt ne'fronted ........holes left in last season's line. Be­sides Croft, Doloway, and Lewis.
Canton McKinley Takes 
First Place; Junior 
Title to Latimer
s the s• The Carnegie pool 
of ilict sixth interscjiolastlc swim 
carnival on Saturday when teams 
from tlie district met to decide the 
winner for another year. Canton McKinley, one of few Ohio teams in the meet succceded in defend­ing the title it won a year ago by r* margin of one point. The Pitts Imrcli schools were very close, wit Fiflh Avenue taking second an Mnnlinll one point less for- third. Oilier team scorings were, as fol­lows: Duquesne and Carriclc, fiveM-;h; Steubenville • -‘Wells, and Langley High, .three-; ScUenley High, t.\vo- <i'nd South and South
the Schenley High quartet in thetrials and by Fifth *......*
finals. The newjudges caught Llie Canton at eight-tenths of a second „nder the previous time in th< free style relay, but' the time wa: not allowed as explained above. Schenley mermen could, not. hold up in the Jlnals, however, for they dropped to fourth pla<
! lost Burns and Good-
Rijlemen Stand High 
in Allegheny District
between the two schoots sport. In the four matches ¦his year, Carnegie has won 
and Pitt has llUlc the rifle matches fi shouldei-to-shouldi 
) was 01 when Pitt
the coaching phase of grid activi­ties. Joe Mihm and Al Irwin will be assistants to the staff.With but a few of last year's huskies left on the squad. Tech will not find the job oi srooinlng a pow­erful eleven an easy one. "Harp’ feels well satisfied with the exist-1 ing material however, and he re­calls the teams of '2C and ’28, Car­negie’s best; which wer almost entirely of £And then, the Tartan mander has his eye out for the fu- , tnre, beyond next season-, and he expects a large shipment‘of “nice big boys’’ (luring the Call recruiting period. He is looking especially for some fast, heavy material foi his backfleld—something like Joe 
Mihm.
Football Managers 
Report to Dinger
Freshman....... ...ndidates forfootball managing- positions should report, to Milt Dinger at 3:30 this afternoon. Mr, Dinger may he found In
ipplyleld bowl.
Cinder Squad 
ShowsPromise
Prelims Held This Week, 
Finals Next; Betas 
Being Favored
By Johnny Weinberg
ith the possession of the bas­
ketball aud singing cups decided 
the fraternities now turn I 
their attentlea te struggling Cor 
the intramural swimming trophy. 
This yenV the issue nppenrg doubly 
important, due to the fact that tho cup has been won twice In suc­cession by Beta Tliefn P), and one more victory will give the lads from the hlti permanent possession 
of this award.
Betas Strong 
From the present indications it appears to be another victory for the Betas although there has been considerable said to the contrary. The present title-holders have a ong squad of mermen including reral promising. freshmen. * - der^on, Parker. Stewart. Lyngheim are the hoys that counted on to keep the cup in its present residence. KRppa Sigma is • ¦ * * ’iave an excoptlon*- i> ot swiinmors in- Slater. and Popo. This team can be counted on to give the Betas a tough <]ight for
Golf, Track-Men* 
Report for Work
lieadwav In golf and track In pace with the weather, and candidates uro urged to re­port today before tho season is further advanced.Golf candidates, for the team and managership, should report at the Gradu­ate Munager’s Office In the gymnasium."Freshman candidates for track should report In the Field House at 4:80. Candi­dates should plan on using vn equipment until ______mr *----
Candidates For Berths. 
Out in Numbers . .
Giohna, Brown, Arc Heads 
Of Thi6 Year’s Squad
Grappiers Finish 
Intramural Meet
the rest oi the boys. John Grad of McGill Hall is the star that will spring to his zenith In. this year's competition, or so the boyu of. the dormitories claim.
Eight Meets 
There will be eight meets swum before the championship Is decld- Each meet will consist of the following events: 25-yard.free style. 50-yard free style, relay, 50-yard back stroke, 60-yard breast stroke, and diving competition.
'ollowing Is the schedule of tho its with the dates of competi­tion also listed.March 25; 1. Beta Sigma Rho vi
March 29; 4. Alpha Tau Omega vs. winner of No. 1. 6. .Sigma Nu vs. Delta
Unknowns SurpriseVetemne 
Hill, Raynoyich, Star
The intramural Wrestling tourna­
ment wne run off last woelc 
many hitherto unknown grapplcr 
putting on a lot of steam, and 
ing some of the more experienced 
lads no ond of worry. Captain 
Hill of tho varsity found one such 
comparative "novice” in tho per- 
Mr. Clippioger, who grap­
pled with {he capable Mr. Hill for 
eight aud u quarter minutes before 
his shoulders were pinned
Ted Sprague, a freshman, 
gavo Dryer some tough moments 
beforo the more oxperloncod Dryer threw the strunger aftor- soren minutes. Tho best match fought betweou Mugeo and Ravoltl, tie beiug clean and very hot- teslod. Well matched, thoBo boys went the limit, Ravottl iiiog ou u decision. Itaynovlc)1 Gehron fought an exceplio good bout and showed a thorough luiuwedge or tho game. This bout ulso went the limit, and ,tho de­cision wus given to .Raynovlch,A majority of the material hlbltod In tho tourimmopt showed such promise that soino of the boys may be entered In tho Senior Wrestling Championships which
winner of No. 7.
TEAM BALANCED
the candidates for the positions < stretching their legs In preparation for some real work* outs. After winter months of com­parative Idleness the boya nre be­ginning to get back into shape for strenuous season, 
v Many Candidates - Coach Guy Halforty will havo quite a large group of candidates - from which to fill the positions •h^n tho tihid for the actual meets comos around. Quite a few of last.___ best performers were lostby graduation, but there etlll re* mains a verv competent number of from lust :
111 be headed this by Co-Captntn Frank Giolina und Norm Brown. Both these boys__ veterau performers and weremainstays of tho varsity both last'
kllo ____ talented grappiers togain a national amateur tltlo will Vid" found I he given when the national Y. M.
holds forth In the Hts events are the*, shot and tho hammer. These two hoys were equally valuable during Inst year’s seusOD,' ' '0 make thorn -espectlve sec Other Runners Back Othor runners who were on last- season’s outfit include Kooh and Duhln In tho half-mile. In the high Jump will be Spencer, Crist,; d Croft, who were all out last nr. Perlna will once more tpko 9 place at the pits for the broad . mp. Also from last years vor- ly are Fritz and Leavitt, pole*, .ultors, and Bnuer. who throws the javelin.
,w counted upon for quite a show­ing If they live up to tho rocord they set last year. With a record ..
season somewhat of Heading tho list are Beall, oaptaln. last year, and-Swinney, both «Ì ¦: whom were outstanding. . Beall is. '| / a dlsLuneo man while Swlntioy is ,a general all round trade athlete, v [C’nmblor, in tho dnahea nnd- broad hump, and Jamos. in tho discus,.and. ni Jump, will team with Hall». iti, and Babin to complète the . -
eral 1; them the 200;yard fr«
______ from Munhall
came through in the 150-yard ra< to turn in a splendid performam and a time in the first heat of1:30.4 to clinch first place. LeLalte,J. Smith, and McKeow Munhall in that race.iu the Junior divisi.. . .first, jplace from Carrick,.—>i- -v i„S£ year. Latlmei
ily with 17 points.
Carrick. came next with 11. Du-quesne satlxewd^v^Can^ | ^ ™ of the' Pitt
through to win three of | on their
, Latira<
cliampi
Lincoln five,
and the 200:yard breast sirolte. The relay record was not a!!w/v’ however; for.tJie winning Canton swimmers were wearing, minks instead of the regulation swimming suits' required . by the rules or Che mf.ct. The breast.
mer came mrousu tu wm iu.c* ......... ... range and abroad.the' four' events, the breast stroke, The Allegheny division, of ‘ the free,, styl^, and., the ..medley. . The -National Rifle Association is-the Carricltg. managed to win the. back only real measure of standing. It nke and' secure enough pfcees J fs as foHowsr " WeBt Virginia and lrtep in- tlie running until they Carnegie, first with five and four* ~ " ’-----^.’Wiwins each and- no losses; .Dre-i*Tr 1.«« Tvinc, and three loss'
MARGIE GREEN
Well, friend Techites,. here we 
arc once again national champions 
iu the ride world—nbt that'we all 
really can shoot, hut our women’s 
varsity has built up such a beauti­
ful rocord of rifle skill, that o\ir 
A'nin Mater will.be the object of 
"uuh praise and envy in that field.
It completed ' the Intercollegiate 
Telegraphic Meet last week, and, 
rMlixiHg that it had a rfepniatiori 
io live up to, walked away with 
‘lie championship for the ..second 
successive year. The final score 
W*S 2!i7i with the- University ot 
Washington a close second, 2309. 1lie nwatds, a trophy for the team ¡nid individual -silver medals x«ncy Chancellor, Peggy -Shultz, Alda Waina, Betty Lelir, and Mary Woiuxoh, will represent a long season ot faithful -and uhtirlnj eirort both on the^part oi Sergeant •Sommers and of the teani as a
whole.Kow, about this basketball busi­ness. I'm sorry to say that out
'|nuch-iaiiied"~ab'6uV‘"'ftfuTrttftnent. I5stilt hanging in mid air. . But he ijnlient, palsle-walsies, for. this Erl- 
“y at 12:30 the sophs .will nit^ly decide whether they, orsJsiors should be intramural ^amps. I feci safe in guarantee- ,us one exciting game, for a w*Jo feels llie urge to take it .ny the way, has anyone else be- llt.ysoIC "felt the urge” to re- i-good old-fashioned rol-
Î«1’ skating
little after dinner party next Monday niglft at 6:30 in front of d9dususu We caii-skato-any plaç« 9n.canipu8:. for -'ianir-.hour;

---------------------------------------------------

THE CARNEGIE TARTAN, TUESDAY, MARCH 26, 1935
3The Carnegie (Tartan
PBONB HATTLOWEB
Editar-In-CUef Badava J
Nrw'&Si.Sparti Editai
àenÿntdnni« of Cftroegfe Institute c tcred in tire Pittsburgh Port Office as
Edhor-ln-Cblrf .
-COPY EDITOR: Rath ',AwNA**u JUNIOR EDITORS: Walter Adamson, ail
__WILLIAM LANDSBEBG__JULIAN F. MUNSTER___________BOY MINET______HAROLD J. BAEB______IEBOHB HANSON__ J1ARGARET G BIFFIN .DUDLEY D. PENDLETON
Bauteile,
Katherine Garruli an, Betty C Jr., Betty Jane Herold^L
Low«*?, Alberto McClure, Sy man, Sylvia Ravick, AdeleJd JtorvlsDd, Mary Schloycr. Albert Schwartz, • John Sh GenUcv« Stracsslcy. ^Joseph ’
BffORTS STAFF : J.^Scrtt CW 
Engine F«rgu»o.BUSINESS STAFF: Joe Allon. 1 Kappet, Alexander Paul. J Layton, Keith McCulcheon, I
Hairy ZJfT. Daniel Supon, Fr CIRCULATION STAFF: Albert
Fclscr, L. Gimdleman, M. Mitchell. A. Prendcs, M. Re ConmaD. L. Haidia, M. Trat TYPISTS: Helen SichenberscMary Lou Scblnyer.STAFF ARTISTS: C. Sue Ft
Support the Champions
H
EARSAY running rampant the past tew 
days on the campus concerning, the pos­
sible abolishment of the Carnegie women’s 
rifle team, United States champions, as a me­
dium for intercollegiate competition has been 
the cause of great concern. It seems that the 
Women’s Athletic association is taking a stand
¦ against rifle as a competitive activity because, 
at present, it is the’ only form of sport, with 
the possible exception of an occasional tele­
graphic archery contest, in which Carnegie 
¦women participate with teams from other col­
leges and universities.
On the surface it appears that the whole
¦ matter la rooted in a difference of opinion be­
tween the W. A. A., the rifle team, itself, and 
Coach Sergeant A. C. Sommer. The W. A. A.
- opposes the discrimination between the vari­
ous women’s sports by offering varsity letters 
only to members of the rifle team. W. A. A. 
members feel that no more recognition should 
be glvin the rifle team than is provided for 
under the “point system" for women’s intra­
mural sports. The members of the rifle team 
feel that as long as all other colleges in which 
. 'women's rifle is a recognized sport award 
worthy participants with varsity letters, Car­
negie should do. the same. Sergeant Sommer 
feels that the nature of the sport requires in- 
. tercollegeiate competition lo make it worth 
while, and that unless It is run on the same 
basis &b In other'progressive schools, the na­
tional champlonhlp team at Carnegie might 
veil be abolished.
¦ Beyond all shadow of a doubt, the women’s 
tlfle team has contributed aa much, it not 
more, than any of the other recognized sports, 
to bring glory and prestige to Carnegie. Last 
year'It boasted of the national women's cham­
pion, and this year the team, itself, will be 
.heralded throughout the country as the win­
ners of the national women’s rifle match. For 
this reason, if for no others, it would be un­
fair, absurd, and even narrow-minded on the 
part of any organization to rob Carnegie of 
one of its most wholesome and effectual 
: sources of fame in the world of sports.
If the W. A. A. won't support the women’s 
rifle team as an Intercollegiate ‘ competitive 
unit, someone else should take the initiative 
to maintain it and to preserve for Carnegie 
and its undergraduates one of Its most- valuable 
extra-curricular activities.
What is Being Said
: war, but I am very much interested in it as training In discipline, which is the most valu- f able thing a young man can get. I feel per* : Bonaily in~Tegard to the- CGCT work, which I
pllnary requirements.—Dr. Ernest M. Hopkins
> treaties and even League covenants. War- eicfc manldnd overnight has been thrust back' to the brink of the abyss where it found itself : -twenty-one years ago. The possibility that
i reckless decision.—The Washington'/¿Star;:-'
v-s';8enaior Carter’Glass Is one of those rare -'.'Individuals' who can demolish a foe so com- -pletely that he slinks away and does not risk a;#* retort, and if Huey had been Ignored after Inlan withered him. he might have »died' stewing in his own venomous juice. But others including General Johnson, had to take him on, revive him'and publicize him; And
most desire.—The Chattanooga Times.
•<;:The true grievance is to be found not in 'what:Germany asserts to be-a matter of truth justice for her.’but In.the sense of sur-, -Brtse and-dlimay and tear-which theGennan-
óòHthat is tobe’TGckonedgullty. at this June« tor« of the world whether she can be proved 7ta^Bonl^sUsdArd* a freater slnner .than all. 'Wtw dwell -in other natlons. Wfcatever verbal profwlnnr and' protesta «fce: may-;now .make,
A. G. E. Horizon
HE REMEMBERS THE FORGOTTEN MAN
By Robert R. FrenchAs the country faces the problem of feeding and.clothing about 22.375,000 people, Harry L. Hopkins, administrator of the FERA, takes the spotlight. When General Johnson was gar* rulously parading the country for NRA, Hop­kins- was. quietly at work on the largest relief task this country has undertaken. During the fall of 1933 Hopkins, with some of hiB aides, toured the country, but where .Hopkins was un­assuming and cqnvlncing, Johnson was harsh and fiery and he got the newspaper space. Hop­kins looked, listened and talked, and out of Ihis came the CWA, planned in early October in a Pullman drawing room on a train some­where between Kansas City and Chicago as the group of men returned to Washington. Re­lief got under way, despite doubt and crit­icise, and 4,000,000 men were put to work.Hopkins brings to his position adminislra* live ability and a time-worn idealism. He is essentially a social worker, for he has done nothing else since he arrived in New York City with a Plii Beta Kappa key, and a job running a boys’ camp, in New York City he directed fresh-air work and unemployment re­lief and was in charge of. directing widows’ pensions for the Board of Civil Welfare from 1913 to 1917. During the war he managed civil­ian relief in New Orleans and the southern division of the Red Cross. Later he returned to New York City lo head the New York Tub­erculosis and Health association. In April, 1932, Roosevelt appointed him director of New York State's temporary emergency relief ad­ministration, and in May. 1933, he left his $15,- 000 n year job lo go to Washington to direct federal reliel. Supervising the spending of $500,000.000 through nearly 5.000 local public relief organizations. Hopkins took a ?5,000 cut when be became administrator of FERA.
Quiet, modest, lean of face and figure with slightly greying brown hair, he has the val­uable cynicism of the trained social worker who loves his job. Old methods and ideals will not be accepted by him merely for their hallowed antiquity—they must work. Hop­kins likes ideas, however, and can make them work, but he misses one of his -first assistants who recently left him because, as he says. “NOW I have to thiDk up crazy ideas instead of squeching the crnzy Ideas that you used to think up for me."
Bom in Iowa, forty-three years ago, Hop­kins came from pioneer stock. His grand­mother moved the family by covered wagon from Massachusetts into the Middle West, while his grandfather was fighting In the Union
graduated In 1912.
In Washington Hopkins has the reputation of an executive who can handle hie assistants, his own job and politicians. He is admitted into the first rank of presidential advisers. Fov the most part Hokftlns is mild, but he can let loose when he feels It will do the most good. His assistants are given full responsibility, but when they fail, they go out. He went after the “smug complacency” of Henry P. Fletcher, chairman of the National Republican Party, and then tackled William E. Borah, Idaho’s perennial orator, when Borah accused the relief administration of political disburse-
temporary prob-tained and. that relief is lem. “While we strove last winter,” he has said, "to provide relief on reasonably adequate standards, a majority of the needy were im­properly housed, fed and clothed. It is not only the parents we have to keep in mind but the children, who have to live under these squalid conditions. We. shall have to answer for these conditions under which some of the unemployed have to live, and the effort made to date to correct them Is no excuse. In every continue trying
By Peter Motyneaux
-#k»vwill--haTe-to -be Judged not. by what she 4— b- —to* rt* ÍO" hv »ha» Mn-follow—New Tort
mission, economic nationalism is defined policy.of withdrawing from intercourse with foreign peoples to- the greatest possible degree, a policy directed toward as much.self-contain­ment as is feasible in the modern; world.” The report goes on to say that economic national­ism "assumes that foreign commerce
milted to another,” and that the belief that the national security nMmnari by - withdrawing from. International commerce 19 worth the sacHflees.^whi,eh?:admit^edly>fiave
. narrowing of the national cui-
the development of foreign trade in the form
Mr. Hoover, while he was President, or rather during the period prior to the Hoover moratorium, frequently - indulged in ' attempts to justify this view. For example, as late, as thfe middle of June; 1331, Mr. Hoover attempt­ed ah analysis of the relation of foreign trade to our domestic economy. Here Is what he
.-Our average annual production of movable
$3.600.000,000. In other words, the shrinkage of foreign trade by- $1.500.000.000 amounts to only 2 or 3 per cent of our total productivity. Yet aa a result of all the adverse fortes our. production has been reduced by roughly $10.* 000.000.000 or $12.000.000.000- This sharp con­trast between a national shrinkage of. say. $12.000.000.000 and a loss' of $1.500.000.000. from fexpdrt tride Is an Indication'-ot~the dls^ arrangement of our own internal'production and consumption entirely apart ' from that re­sulting from decreased sales abroad/* • '•Eeonpfnlc Nationalism Traditional-Policy - This. I say.- la a .characteristic expressions of theview that foreign “Ira'S èTI$~not a significant factor In American economy.- The idea ie that. compared with the home market, the foreign market is relatively unimportant, and that-
Writers’ Row
As I climbed the midnight bill 
Crying down my laughter - 
Cbampagne-pale the moon appeared 
And I ran stumbling after.
Laughter pained and so I wept And peace came to my being That I a lad as yet so young Was yet so apt of seeing.The moon I ceased was scarce a moon A-dangllng from a crest But rather something tangible Suspended in my breast.
The air’s duped with tbe breath of wanton Spring;Converging suns met in a grievous kiss
bliss!Against the postulation of the sea Whose fret beats out a flat despondent
brain > .You only turn your twisted head and s The nascent corpse of love that yet. is t
irpin nights with bawling '
heart apart,And there’s no surgeon's skill can ever bring The two within a happy mutual space! ' How witless and how futile then to fling Your heart before the bead whose solemn- faceCares naught for each small spark your
But only lor the awesome whole of,man.MELVIN D. BUCKNER.
- SATURDAY'S CHILD;
Overnight an extraordinary metomor- phosis hod taken' place. At nine o’clock last night William Grainger, Jr., of 4-B, Blair Grade Scbool, had retired; this morn­ing a bronzed, god-Ilke man name Pierre Le Blanc, fur-trapper and trail-blazer, arose from the very bed in which \pilliam 'had slept unmolested for nine years. The stranger reached lazily for William’s knlck- watching the smooth play of muscles
the high boots that William’s mother had bought on the strength of her son’s ad­vice concerning their long-wearing quali­ties, and buttoned on the red-checlcered flannel shirt which had been twice-rescued by William from the rag barrel. Then, with a flourish, he carefully set on'his head the final glowing insignia of his pro­fession—Grandfather Grainger’s fur hunt­ing cap with, ear laps aad a flowing rac­coon tail. He gazed enraptured Into his mirror, muttered a few experimental "by Gar’s,” and descended to the dining room.
William’s mother, beingi’a rather dull woman, did not. recognize Pierre Le Blanc. She only saw her son,- William; looking veTy hot and very ridiculous- In a fur cap. As he ate hiB cereal and munched his toast, pretending that it was dried veni­son, she exhorted him to remove the of­fensive hat by pointing out the fact that hunting season had not yet begun, and Anally ended by appealing to'his aesthetic sensibilities. He remained obdurate, but as a concession, he promised to sweep the front porch. When he had finished eating, he described a few seml-clrcles several inches above the floor of the porch with a broom, hid tbe broom behind the hedge, and turned to the woods. A few of hiB , friends—good ’ enough lellows . during. <ch'odt'h't}urs, but 'Wholly' uninitiated In the-art of fur-trapping—called to him as he ran down the street. He Ignored their callous remarks and subtle insinuations about his attire as they pursued him into a clump of trees near the edge of the town. He'soon outdistanced them, and hurried, warm and glowing from the spir­ited chase, to a certain tree near- the ¿reek where he had burled a can of worms sev­eral weeks ago.
" -Now he -'disinterred the'-worms to see if they had assumed a state of rigor mortis. After he had noted that they were rigid and extremely dehydrated, he counted them aud put them back into their coffin. For a while be could not decide whether to use the worms that morning, or to await until cold weather had frozen the top of ‘ the creek into ice. Finally be decided to keep them a few months; fur-trappers, he remembered, usually fished through' holes
vcan again, and spent ^ almost, an. hour.clev-
George Bernard Shaw has long been u symbol for all that is bril­liant, daring and independent' in tbe theater. In “Getting Married,” playing this week in tbe Little thea­ter, we have an example of Shaw at his most typical—not tbe Shaw of the rather weak, uncertain later p)ay6, tbe “Apple Cart” and “Too
"Major Barbara” and “Man auu "Superman.” '
“Getting Married” is an attack
best Shavian manneT as an amus­ing comedy. Tbe Little theater production almost succeeds in mak­ing impenetrable this disguis
proach caricatures and conversa- on the ridiculous. Sacrificing to eonfe extent the essential didactic purpose of this play, Professi 'lace
amusing i
Be Misunderstood ,r might easily be m derstood to be/nerely Shaw’s reluct- ' admission that there can be no really successful substitute for marriage. Superficially Shaw makes Ihis admission, but he has not in­tended this as the message of his play. In reality “Getting Married” to be a severe criticism of British marriage and divorce laws and of the system which they ¦esent. He admits that there is present no adequate substitute marriage only because society iot yet ready to accept a satis­factory substitute for or even a re- f existing laws. This expos-
Shaw has written this play in a form little used in modern drama; following with precision tbe cla6S-
' Stonehenge, so' ttiat he would be able find the place again. He wet his fore­finger, held it to the breeze to determine In what direction the wind was blowing, and then, faintly surprised because lie could feel no cold rush .of air, he started
earned by snaring seven bears and innu­merable rabbits. . He paused outside a theater, -torn between desire for', an ice cream soda and the attractions of a photo­play called THE BORDERLINE. Finally he entered the theater, because he bellev-
cents: he tortured himself by thinking of the soda, its beautiful, heaped*up foam, Its delectable, double-rich ice cream, the lost ecstasy of the final sip of its heavy syrup from the bottom of the glass. In utter boredom he kicked tbe seat in front of him. unmindful of the caustic remarks of the woman who obviously enjoyed watch­ing the, stupid' love-.scenes. He had so little Interest- -In 'the picture that he • amused- ltlmself-.-by-arguing-with- th*-user - who wanted-him to Vegjove.his fur hat.
When the plctur^ wasiover, he returned home., carefully looking .for the spoor ot any^witdanimals that might be lurking-Jn ‘the dense'underbrusb iof ^e hWgeB along the sidewalk;. As he neared hfshomei'he saw his mother • waiting -for him. on the front porch. . Without a word, he stuck his hat under the belt of bis kniftkere so that It .¿would" not get dusty, took ' the broom from its hiding placé, and began to sweep .-in asverv Willlam-llke manner. Thé same' movement with which he had taken off his . cap had banished Plen*e Lo. Blanc to the wilds-, of the .French-Caoadlan - woods for another week.VERA ItAJtKUS.
entedthe Little theater v brief relieving interi
Uses Much ConversationHe presents his thesis chi through the skillfully planned i
fluently made both by those who admire and those who attack his work. That he docs presenting, in this play
attempt of several persons wh< have found themselves in conflict with existing laws to devise a sub
.those existing laws as. best they can. Shaw’s characters are never very real; they are rather repre­sentative types, sketched cleverly and contrasted one with the other.
Describee Character«Among the characters portrayed
Brldgenorth, à rather dull old gen-
se that shesnobbish young man with thlfiftsTsbe!h'a9'fall'en'-in love;' and
who has been proposing vainly foi twenty years to the sister of the bishop’s wife, a Miss Grantham, who wants children but not a band, and does without both be­cause she is a well-bred English
the play, when she and her flei
Mrs. George Collins, somewhat i strangely portrayed as the essence OP gymtral ot naiHiSl woma'nT^vFo .demands.;and obtains the freedom to"fulfill'her desires. ' In contrast with, all of the others., is Soames, the bishop’s deacon, who repre-
mystical scene of Mrs. George's “second sight.” The mood of this last scene is so much in contrast with that of the rest of the play that it would not be readily accept- .able, if it were not for the very fine performance of the two principal
restraint and depth In them that Is absent In the others. As carica­tures, somewhat overdrawn for the
exceptions, are very.well done, i. The production was-timed rap­idly,. end, with the exception of
in the theater, in spite of what some'critics have said, for the ai 'dleh'ce'_air this 'revival' 'ô'nâ' pïà written over twenty years ago wa enthusiastic and amused.
EMILY KRAMER.
; There is a céruân amount ot rea­son behind Wilfred Smith’s preju­dice against' thé military depart­ment at Ohio State.. Wilfred, after -a -drill one -day* dragged his rifle lletenléssly across the armory
on the boys shoulder and barked: as he took out his notebook. "What is ' your name." "Smith, yeah!'? the officer sneered.—
ON WITH THE SHOW
ò Hobo
THE GREEK HOP AND HOLLER was a minor success . . . 
quite a good crowd there considering that some people went to 
the Pltt military ball . . . the DU’s were rated favorites for the 
cup all along and came through with some really sweet music 
. . . but why do they have to be so hoggish about these'warb­
ling cups . . . the judges had a more difficult job on the runner- 
up, finally deciding that the honor of being stooge to the DU's 
belonged to the Beta’s because they tossed in a side show at no 
extra charge • . Beetle Ely, their maestro, was all right, but It
did look, for a while that, he was going to run for a touchdown 
. . . tbe Kappa Slgs followed in the large footsteps of Winchell 
and Bernie with a Gallagher and Shean parody . . . only sour 
note of the whole evening slipped out of the depths of the*Slgma 
Nu chorus . . . following the lead of their Clyde street neigh­
bors the Krappa Sigs appeared with lllles-or-tlie-valley on their 
lapels • . ahem . . . don't let it get around but someone just
told us confidentially that three the judges sive DU's.
JUST RIGHT was the Swing following the Sing ... a large 
enough crowd to pay for the Singing Cup and other expenses,_ 
but still enough room to dance comfortably . . . Lord Lee Nut­
ter, who disappeared rather suddenly last spring, returned just 
as unexpectedly with Dottie Devlin . . . they spent a large part 
of the evening with the Deans . . . Jack Reese was back again 
with Nancy Jones ... As Jack says, he's got one foot in Wash­
ington and the other here'. . . guess it’s Harrisburg that gets the 
break . .\. something new was Glnny rbmRp honorary cadet offi­
cer, maid of honor, etc., of last last, with Johnny Anderson . . . 
Jim Phillips presented Jody (Xmas-Cards-to-all-the-boys) Kuhn 
with gardenias . . . Paul Gibson still with, Mary (typical college 
man) Yorke . . . Whirling Kissel with Fran Tiegel . ; . Mary 
Wettach was proud of the way Burke handled the master of cere­
monies assignment . . . Kenny Knapp with. Shultz again ... 
Mltcbener very much taken with Annabelle Kroll . . . Gilmore 
with Hart . . . Goodrldge still being nice to Reba Waggoner 
. . . she helped out the Betas by playing for them at the Sing 
... Snyder and Provost stopped in but didn’t have time to take 
off their hats ... Joe Mlhm happy with Louise Henderson . . . 
Bob Greiner and Helen McCrea billing and cooing . . . Head- 
Man Dana taking care of. the Nichols . . . and do you-know 
where Bea Archer Libs?
MOST ABUSING .was the well;known, campus - leader who sat 
on the curbstone outside of Thistle Hall and sang “Lookie, lookle, 
lookie, there’s my cookie.”
CARNIVAL Dana was sweating his beard off the other day be* 
cause it took the campus queen nominees an.hour to powder their 
respective noses to have their picture taken . . . then it took the 
cameraman a half an hour to get one shot . . . and two hours 
more before he could get a flash bulb to take another.
POLITICS: First mention of tbe coming campus elections and 
their Inseparable polutitics comes from the rumor that the Dra- 
mats have .decided to rebel against the present otder in which 
they assumed a very minor position, and are going to run Carl 
Dozer for president ot the Arts School Senate. Another indica­
tion of -the radical element in the drama department is the fact 
that some of the girls think that the engineers are good enough 
to go out with them now (it couldn’t possibly be due to the ob- 
—vious'Iack of men in tfieir dept.)
SIMPLE SAYINGS: With credit to Harold Baer .we repeal, the 
following pun of the week . . „ first herring, "what happened to 
that other pal of yours?” and tbe second herring answers, “Am 
I my brother's kipper?”
MINNIE HELM is up in the air again . . . this time because 
whatever her boys do to the lawn In front of the dorms she 
wants it looking as beautiful as the Pitt campus . •. .it seems ' 
that the grass will stand just so much.
DESPITE TUB PEACE movement, quite a number of the Tech 
boys with a love for uniforms and the clash of swords turned 
up at the Pitt Military to plunk three bucks on the line-to get a. 
nice compact souvenir for their gals . . . Campus King Ackley 
was out with a married woman, Maxine Olsen Estabrooke . . . 
naughty, naughty, Drummer . . • Vinson, et ux, kept in the
swing of things by handshaking the Pitt Deans . . . Robert
Roberts, blushing protege of the Tech ROTC, appeared with a
luscious hit from the Pitt campus, Ginny Itunkgl . . .pen*
rose (Hot-Shot)-Mellinger, outdid himself with Mary Lord . . . 
“Horse”' A. Robinson helped fill out the. crowd.
AND THE ECONOMICS PROF who innocently remarked that- 
Canada would be saturated it the present population rate con­
tinued certainly had the right slant on things.
A.. PRECEpi£NT_W8s. established-last. Saturday -by-a -representa— - 
tive from Central America who showed up at the Little Theater ' 
in a line fettle.
Alumni News
Matthew Frey, assistant in the Department of MMstc. will, he ac­companist for Ethyl . Hayden on a
Miss Jean Seaman, associate pro­fessor of singing in" the Depart­ment of Music.
- Suaasne Selger 93. .Department
of M,usic, has been filling a singing 
engagement.vfor the/pastrweek at 
the Fox theater In Philadelphia 
der the management of Arnold 
Johnson and Stanley Reed.
The Carnegie clans of New York 
and Nopthern • New Jersev in the 
metropolitan district are having 
their annual dinner at 7 o’clock 
Tuesday,. April 9. The dinner willbe heir ‘ ‘ ..............hotel.-.
On Second 
'¦Thought
Dudley D. Pendleton jr
Another Scrap
“A pfeace of vengeance avenged itself upon its'niaj commented The' Nation last v when Germany formally 
the Treaty of Versailles \o t'e ^
vho 'those
rabid *in their condemnation of “tbe datimed Dutch” under the spell of war- time hysteria, after seeing the
of the bargain
ling to feel thatDudley D.
s Ger­
many is justified in throwing oi the shackles of Versailles it onh to keep her self respect. x0 nalit: 
can be expected to submit forertr lo a treaty which makes it r the feet of the rest of the and certainly not when oa border loom the shadows 4 
We of betel in quantiiii before witnessed by man.
If Charon has kept his wils abs} him. he has long siuce sold line of ferries to invest in the st four-lane vehicular bridge whki the angel of death has been bulft ing across Ihe Styx around itu bend.Situation No Joke
Df'Spit© tho fact that “tunip man" Rogers isn't worried about Europe's troubles and that Lloyd’s,
7 to 1 ;ood Broun, mu^PP jainst any Euro­pean war within a year,” the situa­tion is by means one lo be passed off with a “Oh, we can oiJPPí enough steer clear of Europe'6 (rat bles."
Suppose that Germany ohouW push her way through her ni Poland, to attack Russia from lb* West and. that Japan should tstt advantage of this Russia from the East—do you sup' pose for a moment that No. 1 pa­triot. Mr. Hearst, would conUnoa his policy of keeping the American
; been... .. .. . _ ght cleanRussia and then to tbe United» States? He wuM be the first and loudest to deau4 that we send our fleet which i6coi< veniently puttering around Lb« Aleutian Islands to deal with Hi!¦ to <1 perilsand to make the world safe forpa* triots.. .
How Can We Keep Out of 111 ‘
“It the Washington big shots would only realize where they ait heading,” said Dr. Charles Beardii a Press Interview during his visit last' week, “our young fellows would not have to don uniform* and shoulder guns in another toi' elgn war. It Is not too late, bat they had better get busy TigM away.”
Mr- Beard’s first move would t*. to pass a law forbidding loans u: all possible belligerents. "IL'a a cinch they can't get far wllhosi American money.” He would thfl, forbid any American firm to ship.
A third plan not mentioned bf- Mr. Beard is that sponsored by S& ator Flynn. This plan would' first: of'all freeze commodity prices U“ minute war broke out. It then pt-- vldes for tbe confiscation of b™the profits of corporations up ti
above $10,000 be confiscated and that'thbse' beldw }thia-'flfenre: be'UO' ed steeply enough to pay for tbs
.In other, words, the people. home are going to sacrifice just i" much as those at the front, am furthermore the next war will fr paid for by the generation starts it and not by those ; unborn.
ive-l«8uOnly by ^trongn
those who sit -back with th^ thumbs in their vests from prayins for a war to break and fill pockets again. We’ve tired of thii business of shooting people to cnake the world safe for • profiteers and pirates. Thai’s all there Is 1 We’ve had enough.
j Sorority News
Members of Alpha Theta sororlLy will hold/ a social .meetini at the home of Virginia Moore ’35/ C519 Darlington road, next Monda.'1. evening. The social program for IM rest ot the year will be discussw at this meeting.
thy Taylor '37, and Margaret ShtiM ’36. ‘¦ Alpha Chapter’ of Cwene of u,fi University of «Pittsburgh will «ua Certain the Carnegie Cwens * supper meeting tomorrow evenin at Heinz house. The -exchange e courtesies between the; two cbMj Ters'te' a tfa'duion that has exi**® since the organization of the El chapter at Carnegie. ,Alumni membeTB ol Mortar Bow 
were' entertained by ' tho ftC‘L. vmen)hers at a ,meetlng...Aheld -,14r week* In the1 Women’sJglub_TQon|^., Ne*
jm city.Professor Harry- Hower 01 1 Department of Physics at Car»«P will be • the speaker. Mr; Hose Miller and Mrs.'. Miller. . Andre" Carnegie’s son-in-law and daugb > 
have been invited. jSu>f;¦ John M. Montatraem i« a mem*». Of the coipmlUee:on*r»ngemei^

---------------------------------------------------

?Four1K-IN& GfcMS
en heralding SPRING i . . . but at I* and the new s Tbe new Porcupine the latest innovation. 
&nv lustrous and' pliable, it is Haired I»' t,ie brilliant, quills oi J| porcupine’ Cleverly manipu- kL in sailors, bretons. and brims g|r H is the answer to the mol- 
11* SPAIN’0 Prayer.
conscious of color and H-'Dg >iiis season. Reds and flea- a>l> very much in promin- H?-» and we are all glad to see on e back to shoes. For ex ci..e «-a have the all-red aiHga- 
'*]’ ehoe«- and as an accent to Vr o fits, we accept a neutral >s£e beiwixt gray and beige
r Hgbi outfits, and vice versa. 
•And, of course, you must have.a !?£ SPRING coiffure. Hair is now 'le dressed with an upward - & *>— better to show it off iew hats. This type of Jtture is typically modern in ÚÁA detail — charming, feminine
$Ve Ihluk that a few auggestione I personal grooming ar.e^ in wilh tbe SPRING excitement. )¦ to seasonal freshness i daintiness is the use-of lilac s, perru'me or toilet wa fingernail polish, recent ire in favor of matching the jf vour nails with yt And waj.ch' your ... ... them, cream them, shine nidi harmless eye drc j eyes reflect the sparkle !r personality, and they
¦ eyes and lashes.
e sriny[rING coat is the navy belted with the Peter Pan neck- id large navy bone buttons a-the front to the hem-llne. A t taffetà tie chucks you. undei i, but you don't have t< Appropriate with such i felts ... and we found ; Sole shipment of them .
i-e are stealing your thunder nud improving it!
• SPRING neckline is y, so dress it up. Choose :kllnes with match- organdies, crepos, ;ettes, or novelty silks, your
ion‘1 you hale to rummage ough your purse in search of letics . . . when .they are r where you thinkthey are? lave time and prevent aglta- treat yourself to a cosmetic a handy article for keys, and lipstick. - The outside is Ire, the Inside is rubber, and . Ined zipper facilitates opening closing.
iwder-plnk accessories are rav- ig! Enchanting with green, brown, or gray auits
_ . f; and tucked in toet, there should be a. hand- hand-blocked hankey with
¡emble, nothing could be. log than a carnation-ofx wine
ibhh! We’re whispering! If you 11 Ihlnge to do things for your slip into a “SMARTIE" He. They ease your figure into aheath-like lines required by Spring's Regency, Grecian, and aiu fashions. No better name Hd be had for them, tor they ^•8tnartles at-amootking figures. hamolG (a the smartest. foil for fy and chamois-colored hand* !«• They are tbe latest luxuries JUtadfcr—Quilted- ‘velope styles, or, if . .11 ted taffeta or crepe, 
bit- bae8 wlH make your KING days springier; and make ' 'eel like springing, too. 
ltrt2our gloves go streamline. Trefousse French kid gloves novel in their stitched designs. *e!ty sJfp-ons in black or brown, five-button tailored slip-ons in shades.the 1
wit ________
pedallue. Lest we forget, tell you about the onion **s. a famous millinery house Mt these hats on the market. Qe of onioa skin, they are un-. ,a»y fine and light as a feather v<"’“ head . . . but divinely . — smart. Black,? brown, or ¦>V wlih bright’ bows,- ribbon 
i»i?c an<* ^erIcy quills. And if ~iake- you cry, we know will positively,cry for Joy 
Z JvU 3ee these toppers, v We «¦ that we’ve gone hatty- in A. today, but . we simply l?ll you about the satin lacq Wed straws. They can be CRed. crushed, rolled,. or sat on ' • and . they won't crack or 
¡in ima8'n® the pleasure, of .. g 011 your hat and knowing \l it won’t be -ruined: Really, £-*w^-5)eautifnl, --and "-you -may- Y French copy or an Amer- •* design . . . whichever strikes r fancy. •
5&ine, ladies? Patent leather ““bags will never lose their brll- «ce, and win even impart some to you. in an abapefl'.or sizes, e^en come with Initials! r,, m ELVA HBNDEL. ,*ni an office-will be glad to the . names of the shops re the above items may be pur* Pleaae callon Friday att- •wne or evenings. >v.^ ...
To the Northwest Lies—
Washington U. Campus 
Bordering on Lakes,
/ Evergreens
Seattle, Washington. 
Dear Carnegie Tech:
I am writing to you from the 
beautiful campus of the “Uni' 
sity of a Thousand Years.” The 
University of Washington' was 
rounded in 1S61 in the heart ol 
what is now tbe Metropolitan busi­
ness district iq Seattle. In 1S94, it 
was proposed lo move the campus 
to its present location, still well 
within the city limits. In that year 
the cornerstone for the first build­
ing, Denny Hall, was laid. We have 
582 acres, of land, 109 acre; 
which are open water. The 
pus borders on two lakes, Lake 
Washington and Lake Union. We 
have thirty buildings now instead or one, also a large stadium and a permanent art gallery, with two hundred pieces of nineteenth cen­tury art and a traveling collection, donated by Horace Henry, a prom­inent Seattle pioneer. .Most of oti campus is landscaped, but in th northern corner there are still se^ erol acres of evergreen forest. I., addition, we have a lovely Sylvan theater in which stand the four columns or the first building on the original campus; surrounding the Sylvan theater is a formal garden.
8,763 Students Enrolled 
Our student body is larger this year than ever before in its history. We have enrolled iu school 8.763 stud^nt.B,. attending, aine different colleges and schools, i , 
Washington boasts of a beautiful Greek row. The houses are indeed a show place of Seattle, and think they equal in size and chitecture those of any campus in the Ignited States. We have thirty- nine national fraternities and twenty-two national sororities.
We also have organizations for
r oí rho M^JJ^JJ^pp^ 1
Thr«
e we. are situated in 3 large e lead a gay social life. We havft three aU-Univergity formals— Varsity Ball in the fall, Junior Prom in the winter and Cadet Ball in the spring. In addition, we have numerous all University Informals. We have also started a series of informal firesides sponsored by A. W. S. and Phraeteres for Independ­ent and organized house men and have,be^n v$ry
dents of the campus.
I wonder how many of you have heard ot the “Grand Old Man” of our campus? His name is Dr. Ed­mond S. Meáriy/ He himsélí was a student at the university in Us first years of existence. He is an expert on Northwest history and
hall that have been named, in his honor. \
35 Women’s Activities '
In order to introduce our fresh-
system of senior sponsors for the independent girls. We have about thirty-iflve activities for women, in­cluding rifle, shooting, fencing and many other sports on the intra­mural program, as well as music, writing, drama and art included In the regular A. W. S. retinue.
Our Associated Women Students organization is the only one In the United States as Par as we know that sponsors annually a concert ea.' During the depression, we e the 6iily*one6ito'coritinue^buBi iness In Seattle. This year we are presenting Lucrezia Borl, Richard Crooks,. Mont© Carlo Ballet, and the Paris Instrumental Quintet usually have two extra attrac-__s.‘ This year one of them willbe Ruth Slenczynski. the -child 
pianist
is of much wiäer interest to us all. Last year, Washington bad"
‘This Is the Tàrtan Quarter Hour9'
Jayne. Carl Dozer, and Qeorga Klttredae.
Skits and Music Broadcast 
By Talented Carnegie Players
State-wide Hook-up Brings Fame to Performers; 
New Broadcasting Equipment in Campus Studio 
Aids Dozer Enterprises; Three Programs
¦rosnchannsretranur —ketball team. For the year 1933- 34 we had an all-American football player and an all-American basket­ball star, including a national as well as local Interest in our sports program. • Crew- is also of'-major- interest t<? sport fans of the Pacific Northwest and we boast of Hiram Conibftar, the inventor of the famous Coi ibear stroke now used by most crew coaches all over tbe country. For the past three years
sports program, we have — — tensive intramural sports program,, itli a large silver trophy offered 1 the organization that wins the ost points by the end of the yeav.
\ - Chimes Played. Daily .* 
Many years ago. Colonel Blether gave a set of chimes to the uuiver- 
I ; every school morning from minutes ot eight until the hour,I in the afternoon from five un- u( five-ten, and Sunday afternoons from five until five-thirty o'clock, they are played by a blind musician,- George Bailey. These chimes are 
'¦ ""most beautiful tradition ol our 
campus.In such a short interview r can hirdly tell you how-proud we are of our lovely new buildings and .exquisite grounds, the breath-tak- vview of M;ount Ranier, and, per- ts mosi of all, we are proud of many acompllshments. that have
frthi' öüf laboratories.
Most-sincerely, 
FLORENCE MARRIOTT, President of Associated Women
Dozer ’36, Department 01 Drama.
On Friday, March 15, the Car­negie Student Symphony orchestra, under tbe direction of Professor J. Vick O’Brien, reoeived very favor­able comment from music leaders on its broadcast in connection with the Eastern M.usic Supervisors’ conference, held here in Pittsburgh. Earl Wild, pianist, and William :Stone, violinist, likewise received monlion for special solo numbers.
Last night the orchestra ga-
day and Tuesday 'in the - Little The­ater of the Irene Kaufmann SetUe-
' Carnegie Tech Presents Today’s program, . Carnegie Tech presents, from 1:30 to' 1:45; as an- page one, will feature
¦f drama. The first ‘In a . London Fog,” ¦will be en- icted by George Kittredge and fane Francy; and the second, “The Marring® Makers,” by Sylvia Lipka and Vincent Maselll. Horace C. Blue, a freshman in the Depart- of D^ma, will announce the
Two specialties will feature to-
Ident of the Carnegie Tech Alumni Federation, will give a short talk;:d Delta Upsllon, the winning fra­ternity from the Greek • Sing and Swing last Friday night, will pre- Helen Jayne, solo-
dividual manner the “Lullaby of Broadway,” hit song from the “New Golddiggers of 1935,” playing' this week at the Stanley Theater. The Scotch Lassies, Alyce Phiipott and
ranging of programs and writing
of the programs for the Blue Net­work of the National Broadcasting
tug Campus week,, as well as shar­ing in the broadcasting of the Tar- tnn Style show.This year, under his leadership, Carnegie has succeeded in getting three weekly broadcasts under way, we being the only university hav­ing such a complete radio system in operation. He has also succeeded in making the Tartan Quarter Hour a- weekly feature with n definite schedule, tomorrow evcning>s broad­cast being the twenty-first one this year.Carnegie on State Network
When asked about the possibil­ities of Carnegie participating In network broadcasts, Mr. Dozer said, “Although a definite time has hot been set, plans are being made for a state-wide network to be given
i regular feature. Also the Car-
the auspices of statioi KDKA.”
Mr. Dozer has spent a great deal of time and effort in building up Carnegie’s radio schedule, feeling
i it add to the preetge of the
broadcasting that will be of invai*
of the cooperation he has received from all who. have helped to make the broadcasting a success. 
Receives Valuable Cooperation George Kittredge ’36, Department of Drama, has bandied most of the
the actual broadcasting whenever
their cooperation, Miss Lawton of the Department of Music, assisting ingement of programs
developmetkt'of the'radio programs, and also tbe administration as a wholft.The city newspapers have given the project publicity, especially tho Poil-GHzetto, owner of station WWSW, with which -ihe Carnegie station is-associated. Walter Sick­les, program director of WWSW,
-The^Top^ 
for Coeds 
at “Bottom”
Spring Prices
• Flattering
• Smart
NewHats 
.OO
anfl others up to $5 —
MILES
2il Fifth Avenue 
Pittsburgh, Pa.
THI E0 S/AÂIKF
With the Style S(hbw just around 
the coiner it’s time to call attenlon 
to a lew ot the sew innovations io 
men’s styles for spring. As the 
weather gets warmer it becomes 
harder and harder to. sit down-at 
a desk and “dig into" your school' 
work. No man likeo to stay in­
doors when there’s warm sun shin­
ing outside and a chance to breAthe' some fresh air. You just can’t bide, the desire to get out into .the open when “spring fever” hits you.
One of the most practical outfits
raglan sleeves, sweat-
or -sports wear. The contrasting slacks are really nent—they are pleated, have ribbed seams on the sides, and of course are equipped 'with the famous Talon zipper. The combination - may be had in a variety of colors and patterns, browns, grays, and tans being lb» predominant colors. Tilts outfit is reasonably priced at nine and one- half dollars.
Another valuable addition to any wardrobe is the new and stylish Alpine floece topcoat, it is a smart garment and may be had in either gray or tan—a concise description of the coat would say that It Is a tbree-b utton. single-breasted top­coat with half belt, set-in sleeves, and roomy patch pockets. It’s a standard topcoat for almost any oc­casion and is sold with an uncon­ditional two-year guarantee at the price or twenty-four fifty.
Shoes have laken on a brownish lint in most cases. One model in particular stands out from tbe rest by virtue of style, sturdiness, and all-around value. This attractive model is a brown Cordovan calf with wing lip. leather heel, anti en­tirely a hand last shoo. Ft sells for six seventy-five. There are nu­merous other patterns which ar% worthwhile values and which may be bought for little more than a five spot. Among these styles-is a dull black calf, made on a spade last and reenforced with a steel shank. This is a practical dress shoe and lends a dressy appearance to almost any outfit. Also Btyllsh shoes of suede and buckskin are. available—these are winning In» creasing popularity on college cam­puses throughout the country.
This column has told of only a few of the accessories of a man’s outfit. So don’t forget to stop in at the CARNEGIE TARTAN STLYE SHOW this Friday night and. jiot only hear about .but. see/bat’swhat iBOB AARON.
Many Changes Revealed in Campus 
Layout Since Original 1912 Plans
By Toby Croaa
I dropped Into tbe office of Mr. 
Lawrence H. MJUer, Supervisor of 
Equipment, other ttay to dig 
up some history of Carnegie not 
given la the catalogue. During my 
visit Mr. Miller, who fias been 
here for 16 years, disclosed several 
interesting facts about the campus as it used to be and about original plans tor the schpol which were never carried out.
In his office are several archi­tect’s drawings ot the campus as it was planned orlglnnlly and dated 1912. The most striking aspect of these drawings was a bridge which was to extend from in front ot En- pJaeering- hall to Forbes street. The lower part of the bridge was to be 'walled lnr partitioned, and used as class rooms. In other words, the road-bed of the bridge would be tlie roof of the building.
Of course in those days the cut was not filled In as It Is now, but a wooded ravine which extended from the B & O railroad tracks up past Engineering ball and Margaret Morrison to Forbes street. The portions of the cut on either side of the proposed bridge were to be ttged ns aa athletic Ifleld and an amphitheater with concrete bleach­ers built'on the sides of the hills. Across the lower end of the ravine, bordering on the B. & O. tracks, a building was to be erected which would serve as a'field house and gymnasium. The plans for this particular building fell through, for at tjiat time tho B. & O. expected to put a station on the same location.
In 1923 money for a gymnasium
finally chosen. At that time the land across the street was not own* ed by the school. JuBt before work was to begin, however, the school board found that they could pur­chase this land and did so. After altering tbe design of the gym*
s built in 1924.
‘The Rocking Horse”
~Holds Sonnet Contest
What is America’s worst sonnet? “The 'Rocking Horse,” a magazine publishing poemsJ short atorles and criticisms. Is sponsoring a nation­wide contest to discover hitherto unrecognized talent and offers a prize of a 99-year subscription tor
ers. eûitov, 320 Irving place, Mad­ison, Wisconsin, before May 1. 1936.
The regular subscription price
stiffened his Puritan back­bone ;for a while, then consented It they would change the title to transient day!—(NSFA)._________
Until 1929 In the upper part of 
the ravin© by Forbes street was a 
typical farm house, t^ore than a 
hundred years old, complete even 
to a haymow and stalls for the cat* tie. During tbe war it had been used as a barracks and before as a residence. Tbe floors of the house seemed to be quite ordinary for they were painted over. However, when the bouse was torn down at the time of filling In the ravino, it was found that they were solid
The Commons itself has an Inter« esting history attached to it. It was butlt in April of 1917 to be used by the government as a ground school for aviation. Tbe actual time ot construction covered only 26 days. At first the Commons was a singlo room with no parti­tions. Since /•'the war numerous changes have been mode in the interior so that It could be used to house class rooms and the cafe« teria. During its entire existence It lias never boen considered as a permanent building by the ad­ministration, but us a temporary structure to be torn down some­time in the future.
Not many ot the students here now know that It was not until 1929 that the street back of tho Commons and connecting Tech street and Margaret Morrison street was' constructed. Before llien the hill across the street ex­tended almost to the back of the Commons. All thlB ground down to the walk , leading toward the Gymnasium was covered with trees and in a recess just off tho south­east corner of the commons was a small sunken garden with flowers and shrubs. All of this had to be destroyed though, when the rood was put' through. The road has its advantages for before it was put In m\iclf of tho park traffic passed
densely parked cars nil along Mar­garet Morrison street made croBs* Ing a hazard. Now we stroll across unmolested. ___
W omen’s T eimis Court 
Opened Last Saturday
The women's tennis courl, sit­uated behind the Brown house, was opened for playing last Saturday.jtJon sheet is kept ov<
RuseolJ's office. Men milted on the courts at any tlLio. Sava Crlllmnn, of the W. A. A. board, is the tennis manager.
LITERARY DIGEST POLL
'oulrt not' bear_____ __ _____States were Invaded. On tlib sec­ond question, 647 voted that they
againBt being drawn into another
M. M. Senatè 
Gives Party
Details of Entertainment 
Not Yet Complete
A party tor all student and fao 
ulty members of Margaret Morrison 
will be held on Monday, April 1» 
from four .'until six o'clock in tho 
Recreation ball of the college The 
parly Is an annual affair sponsored 
by the'Ttfargaret Morrison senate. There will be no admission charge*
Although tbe details of the en* tertainment have not vet boon com* plowed, stunts will be presented by the members of the Margaret Mor* rlson faculty as woll aa by stu> (touts In the four classes. Refresh* uients will be served.
ThVeommtttee for the affair con­sists ot: Jane Tleroan ’37, chair*
Y.W.C.A. Sponsors 
Script Contest
A script contest for the Indo> pcmtonce day pageant for the pur­pose ot obtaining materia] for tbo fourth aunual celebration in Schen« ley purk has been announced. An open meeting ot persons wishing to take part In the contest will be held tomorrow at £ o clock fa tho International Institute ot tho Y. W, C. A., 405 South Dlthrldge street.
Students of tlie University ot Pittsburgh, Duquesno university» Carnegie, public and parochial school and Little Theater folk ard eligible to take part In the contest.
the contoet, will preside at the meeting.
The pngeant is presented each Fourth ot July in Schenley park with several thousand men. women and children—Including members of the American Legloo, Boy Scouts and Girl Scouts—partiolpat*
the affair, has announced that any* one wishing to enter tho contest is invited to attend tbe meeting Co obtain full partloularB.
PUPPET OUT NEXT THURSDAY 
The next Issue of the Poppet, a
: Athletics, tho Campus iv picture of Bob Ches*. . >rcheBtra leader, and tho singer with him, Matellne Bakor, who are at the Chatterbox. The other feature 1b a surprise.
—Doctor of Education.—(NFSA).’
A GREAT ADVANCÉ IN SHOE MAKING 
WITH“yfa- ADVANCE IN PRICE!
AU THE VIRTUES OF A HAND TURN
SHOE WITH NONE OF ITS FAULTS
Women are esdtcd...delighted...thrilled to 
faoyt that now,- ae last, they may WALK 
IN tiEAUTYland know the’joyof *CER- 
TIFIED COMFORT too...WITHOUT 
PAYING AN EXTRA PENNY for this 
privilege. For although footwear with Dual- 
personalitee is one of the greatest shoe de­
velopments of the age, the Wise shoe price 
still remains $3.98. Wear them, and know 
just how exhilarating .it is to experience 
absolute stocking - foot - com fort with newest 
shoe fashion I Try a pair today., .you'll real* 
ize immediately the great value to you of 
Wise Dual-personalitee with
FOOTWEAR THAT COMBINES)
NOW Smart shoes that CANNOT SMARTl 
Soles that CANNOT SEPARATEI Toes that 
will not break down I Backs that .cannot sagl
WeSE
235 Fifth Avenue 
Pittsburgh, Pa.FinßaiUrm»aJirRitmjtaßMaai..tmiUiin JJ9f

---------------------------------------------------

THE
CARNEGIEPLAID
• • E. F. WHITE WILLIAM E. HASE
Assemblies
' The efforts of tbe night students to establish lectures on the sight campus should be highly commend­ed, The possibilities of eucb u program are unlimited. While the : obstacles in tbe way of setting up a-definite schedule .along this line may seem - insurmountable, it is reasonable to believe that if some­thing really, worth while is pre­sented to tbe students the response - will-.be-greater than anticipated.
. .The difficulty in convincing the busy nifht student tbat another evening spent on the campus is ¦well -worth the extra time, may t overcome by presenting a-program at a 'general night school assembly on one of the regular school eve- .ninge.. . The 'time lost by . the dis­missal,of classes would be more than oil-set by the furthering of . the.lnteUectual and social relation- ship between the' students and the 
professors'.At oae of the leading eastern 
< colleges, an organization has been ' formed to bring together the stu- . dents and the professors outside of the classroom. This organization Jias.sent.out a questionnaire among the students asking, the names of the Instructors ’ whom they would like .to know belter and the sub­jects they Would like them '
Historical Highlights 
— of...
Night Student Council
hoped that the increase in the fee from three dollars to five dollars .. juld amply take care of the de* mands upon the general' activities fuod. Neither of these two hopes, 'ever, materialized, as only a ret-__ely small number, of the totalregistered students paid tbe fee during 1921 -with a slightly larger number paying the fee during the following year.
Of course such a situation could exist and be satisfactory. Some­
thing n'6s bound to take place; ther the fee shiJUld be continued it should be dropped. What to berame a problem. In another attempt, therefore, to ascertain tbe iehes of the night students a second poll was decided upon. This time the vote was to be taken dur- e course of assemblies, which then being held during tbe
.Not unlike the first pool, the re­sults showed a small numbed cast ballot. The attendance at____ assemblies was not verylarge and consequently it was possi- to reach only a small number students in this manner. In a general way tbe results were •ut the same as those obtained the first methods 
After having made the second
Such a program could bev 
carried on by the individual col­
leges^The attendance of the day school general-assemblies has been in­creasing in the lest few years.¦ The amount set aside by the day etudent council to bring to Carne­gie Tech motion. pictures end tjonally known lecturers has been considered well spent.. The sub­jects have covered a wide range of interest and are not limited technical studies.• It is suggested that night stu­dent council give full consideration to -a .more intensive program' which could be carried on during - the course of the next school year.
a Griy-iro DogrooJ
: Together with the announcement of new fee schedules and loDger school terms for graduate subjects,• ComeB . further Information that ' ' .will be more agreeable to upper'. classmen in the' night school. While [- the Committee on - Graduate De-I grees has not made a definite state-. meat, there are Indications that committee,' and tbs various de- 
. partnients; may soon ontli- "definite program leading ?. Master of Science Degree.The procedure, and the-work re­quired for Graduate Degrees In ' *. night school have been somewhat1 uncertain In the past. The various departments accepted some stu­dents, and arranged their sched- .. .¦nies for them, but their was so real coordination ot thé work as re­quired by different departments.In 1933, when some of the de­partments announced that they• would no. longer accept night dents as candidates for the Master of Science-Degree; many students telt-that,their action was a severe blow.'ta the prestige of the night
time withholding recognition' for achievement in them, It appeared either that the courses were in­ferior, or that the work done by . night students waa • not satisfac­tory. ... ,Now withi .the . Committee .-. Graduate Degrees established coordinate , the work, and with gradúate., courses arranged * bo equivalent to day courses;-•" ' •............ * *-*TatIinig ..fin
cbaársi:ahd that-théy- áre' beginni to reálce the importance of proper recognition ’lor 'night school work. :"While comparatiyely few students • ever gain Graduate Degrei •night school, the.'fact that
_ obtaining practically esults in both instances, several inferences could be tdken although none of them would be entirely conclusive. The final deci­sion was to continue the fee as optional with the idea in mind that the course of a few years a det­te stand could be taken.
In the meantime, while the stu­dent body as a whole was being 
approachedtlvlty fthe active students, tbat those who were interested in the omotlon of extra curricular tlvlty, were presenting from time
i -with their work,
Molion Pictures
. The use of motion pictures ... > etudles in the.field, of power rapidly gaining momentum. In'... -cent Investigations motion pictures have been made to find out what ..v;iroee.on inside the cylinder of the• Diesel engine. In thi high speed motion picture camera• was used. By slowing down the camera .when throwing the picture•; -on,'the screenit Is possible to stud;.' carefully every/phase ot the Igni-
The pictures are taken tlirougb I . . two thick plates'. Numerous studies .. . have been made of what goes ¦>' -inside a. boiler furnace. The p i. lifection of high speed cameras has I greatly’alded. the study of the varl- ¦ ' ous .forms of power generation. T* -would seem that this method of ••^-investigation mlght be applicable not ,v ;only to power generation but also '-..'.to the various branches of the set- 
-ri - ences and arts.The Introduction of motion pic- 
: tnre studies In colleges would ,r.v.; doubtedly prove^beneflcial to •jrT-rFlntteni.- -Th«- --fra^eegQisn left a! 'this' actual sight of an object ?vv.v.. midns llnnly Imbedded in the mind.
i motion picture.
Benny Burton and His 
Orchestra Will Play 
For Night Arts Dance
Several Novelties Will 
Be Introduced During 
Course of Dance
SOUVENIR PROGRAMS 
TO BE DISTRIBUTED
i the question of i
Event Will Bring to a Close 
Current Social Program 
Of Arts College
Preparations have been complet­
ed for tbe Spriug dance which will 
be presented by the; Night College 
of Fine Arts.in Thistle hall on Saturday evening. Dancing will be In progress from 9 till 12.
Benny Burton and his KDKA— NBC orcbestra consisting' of ten pieces have been chosen to furnish the music for the occasion. The chestra, which plays a collcgiate attained an envi­able reputation, in additioi sir broadcasting. Mr. Burton band have filled engagements ing tbe past year at West and Kennywood parks, the. Grot- Gay Paree and many of the bel- clubs throughout the city. On every occasion the orchestra has been well received.
To quote the words of the chai “This will be the finest affair held by the Night College of Fine Arts." Nothing has been over­looked In planning the function, iveral novelties will be employed. Souvenir programs will be dis- ibuted as well as something of a floral nature for the ladies. The decorations will be carried out in keeping with the trend of the sea- . On the whole, the hall will transformed into a gay setting 
indicative of Spring.
Among the guests who have been invited to attend the affair Deans Mary Watson.Green aiTarbell, Mr. and Mrs. Robert Schmertz, Mj. and Mrs. Roy Hilton,
’Tis Said
THAT all students presenting lelr registration cards at the Council offlee on next Monday ining will receive a valuable
and Mrs. M. Hornbostel and and dbAu Everett Warner. 
Since this function will bring to close the current social season for the Arts group, the students urged to avail themselves of the op-
Automotive Students
Graduate This Year
studentsTHATtrying to get ahea^—on Friday nights.
THAT the staff will publish the surprise edition next week.
THAT a certain automotive student has been scraping the same hearing for a number of weeks and expects to complete It before the term ends.THAT Herbie Stone was seen passing shamrocks out last week—the Irony of It all.THAT ¦ Mr. Page, a farmer’s tad, appeared at the Industries
day.THAT two students passing the bucks at the Indus­tries dance.THAT every one is talkl about the Engineers’ banquet.
failedTHAT this Is about the time of year when the retreats usual­ly begin.
THAT the • gentleman smiling fa&e is seen In back of the “No Tleket’'“slgn ha flcè ori the second floor.THAT the Editor of the night section of the Thistle Is quitewith 1: ladieTHAT quite a few students sre In need of sleep?THAT Elmsr (smoke-gets In your eyes)—Cap. Dosey’s little helper, had the foundry boys fi-a-<og-Tueaday-nl^htf-----------THAT &cho.ltz Is back again— with the spring.THAT this colurr pletely overlooked o Combs. Hats off to you : belle, this Is your debut.THAT the students In. nomics were looked out of*sday night
the Engineers’ banquet contli at the same rate—on April 6, many Engineers will wish they
has < i Miss Me-
had pur<sed th<THAT a , little blonde girl, with a little curl and suit has many heads turning about the hall:THAT Mr. Tedford Is a walk­ing geometry supply cupboard, nice fellow to get next THAT the shop pictures for the Thistle present many pro-
C. S. EDM AN
PEINTEE 6470 Monitor Street
STUDENTS 
WANTED 'Five hundred Typewriters, all makes, Portables and Standards, sold, rented, re­paired. $3.00 one month, $10.00 five months.
American Writing
Machine Company801 LIBERTY AVENUE PITTSBURGH ATIantlc 5488 hP our School representative DICK HAMMOND
Among the graduates at tbe next Commencement exercises 1 held in June will bo the first grad­uating class of the new four-year automobile maintenance and oper­ation course of the night College of industries.
This course bad been limited two years and was extended four years beginning with the school year of 1931-32, when sev­eral technical subjects were aided the'list, thus, forming a four- year certificate courser The course,- having been carefully, arranged, has greatly aided the average au­tomobile tradesman who finds \the various subjects, to fit in with the any dally operations in the auto­motive field.
Although a large number of stu­dents bad enrolled In this course in 1931, there are but nine remain­ing, all of whom expect to gradu*
Notice to' Workers
Saturday afternoon at 1 o'clock for the purpose of decorating the hall for the dance which will oe held that evening under the auspices of the night college of Fine
last opportunity for students in the Fine Arts college to obtain points from their own college functions. A mini­mum number of points, in individual college work, is required - for an Insignia
Banquet Plans 
Taking Shape
Engineers Promise New 
Type of Floor Show
TICKETS ON SALE
Grttd News
From behind a forest of test.tube* 
id beakers, in the Gulf research 
laboratory, comes the following 
icssage from Frank J. (Pop) Reed 
ho received his B. S. degree la 
chemistry in 1925:
day attempts 
made to announce Spring in all 
her glory. No doubt they 
successful,., because I have noticed of you night school folks with that far-away look in your eyes. That's bad—you were in a nit al inter—you didn’t get out much- had your nose down to the oli emery wheel—but, .what about you social activities? i’ll bet you didn’ inch this winter, wait ing till school is over.A long time ago, away back In
Valuable Souvenirs And 
Prizes to Be Awarded
Final arrangements have .been 
completed for tbe twentieth, annual 
night college of Engineering ban­
quet, which will be held Saturday 
evening, April 6. The event will be 
held at Webster Hall hotel, 
dinner will begin promptly at 6:30 
and will be followed by 
elaborate floor show. Attention Is 
gain called to the change of dato 
which appears as April 13 in the 
night student hand book.
The, committee in. charge has 
promised something exceedingly 
il iu both the dinner and in the 
method of presenting the floor shi is known that souvenirs, of value .. the engineer, will be distributed, and that valuable door prizes ha' been secured. These • door prjz re to be awarded by a drawing of limbers shortly before the begin- ing of the entertainment.The contract for tbe floor show as been awarded to a well known leatrical agency. This agency has een successful in securing 'acts /hlch have proven quite popular in the “big time” theatrical world. The usual snap, wbich is alwayr present at these affairs, will be ver; 
uch in evidence.The Engineers' banquet is one o ie two affairs which has been ii dstonce before the creation of _jpht student council. The po; Jarlty it has received, marks it ; of the most enjoyable events the campus.- This affair will be
id from student salesmen, nt the stiident council office.
Uieir classmates, ^ it seems they found1 them to be human beings. Several of the bolder ones came to the con­clusion that this short friendship ought not to end when the . last exam-papers were'banded in'. Why not get together during the rest of the season? The idei with the result that se uitles were formed, that di not 'sschool to close before they joy themselves socially.You have all heard the story about wbat too much work does Lo Jack. Of course you kuow youi best, but you sure mist making valuable and-lasting friend ships If yon do not . become ac quainted with your -fellow class mates.I.just thought I'd'bring It to youi
mer. I believe that you will see your way clear to get better acquainted with your fellow ulght.school classmates, by.'ljoining up" with them in social activities.'
The department of. bacteriology of Akron University paid students
Notice to Students
aod Credit .for the supple­mentary evening term are requested to leave their names in the registrar’s of­fice as soon as possible. The supplementary term begins May 6.Banking and Credit (C- 363) Is now given only in al­ternate years and is not scheduled for the regular term next year. The course will be given in the supple­mentary term this year if a sufficient number of students
Since there-Is little time remaihing' in the regular school term,' any students in­terested are urged to make
Industries College 
Affair Successful
St. Patrick’s Day Dance 
Closes Croup Events 
fhe. dance presented .March 16 
by the lndustrle9~college brought to 
close the social activities of tbat 
group for the current year, function far surpassed all previous eflbrts of the Industrial ' students, and proved the most successful event sponsored- by IhlB college.
Tbe decorations and program .jnformed.to the spirit of St. Pat­rick’s day. The programs being of a green color bore tbe typicat shamrock design which formed a cut out pattern on the face of the program. Each lady attending the affair was presented with a beauti­ful corsage which added color to the occasion, V large illuminated emblem bearing the words “Night Industries” was mounted, on the orchestra platform.. Potted ferns and palms furnished the floral dec­orations, adding a finishing tquch 
< the setting.
The music contributed In a large measure to tbe enjoyment of those attending as Pop Houck and his orchestra made their 'Initial ap­pearance at a night school function. The enthusiastic acclaim of the dancers was indicative of the excel­lence with which the dance tunes
Outstanding Ticket
Returns Requested
According to the night student luncil records, returns on dance ckets are still due from Quite a <w students. As the number of functions remaining on the night social calendar are few, a request Is made that all returns be made ao soon as possible.
The council dance accounts can­not be closed until these tickets are accounted for. All returns must b6 in before one is eligible receive an activities award or scholarship. Remittances should
New Business 
Course Added
Commercial Engineering 
Degrees Awarded
Beginning next year, the Car­
negie evening school will offer a 
special four-year program of busi 
ness and management studies for 
the beueflt of graduates of other 
engineering-courses, graduates of
Tor other persons who wish to fol­low a co-ordlnaLed program of study in the field of economics and business.
Students who have previously been awarded the degree Bachelor
gree Bachelor of Science in Com­mercial Engineering upon compie tlòn of the four year program. Graduates of the six-year certifi­cate course In other branches of engineering will be awarded the certificate in Commercial Engineer­ing upon completion of the lir6t three years of the program.
This course is an exceedingly valuable addition to the work available in the niglit school. Dur­ing the past ' fe'
Thistle Year Book
Orders Request^
The Thistle SUIT ia ion- orders for the 1»35 copy 0l publication. Those students vSI wish to order a' copy for tbelf J:1 
sonal library, or desire further
has been entering
been entering int
business more and more •ork, and 
engineers P^^ aluslness. As a result of this ten­dency, there has been a steadily Increasing demand for men. with a fundamental knowledge of engl- ierlng principles combined with fairly comprehensive knowledge 
of business.
The number of commercial, en glneers who have been placed
th_. . .beginning to recognize 
the value' of such _present, the commercial engineer­ing field offers many opportunities
he (tddvessedW. A. 136, C. I.
notification
Mrs. Louise Goldman, president of the Margaret Morrison night classes in 1912, was a visitor on tbe campus last Wednesday night.
Ight- school and commended the night student council for encourag­ing and propagating student actlvl-
Choose your bank 
as you ‘would choose 
a friend 
*
MEÁÁON NATeONAÁ 
tANl
Pittsburgh, Pa.
formation, should call dent Council evening betweei, , , - 00 and 7;I’clock.
During the past five months n light.editor and business maw ot this.publication have been fatS! engaged with the arrangements^ picture sittings or prospetlln graduates of the three coiu.» and compiling a complete hhiim of activities, organlzatioj other interesting data tu eluded therein.
Tbe price of the Thistle bae be» reduced to three dollars and siu cents, which should be an ¡mW ment to every graduating stud« to take advantage of an oppofl. nity to possess a record of«* friendships aDd other pleasam memories of the campus. The ita remaining for placing order«'
G íhorGoÇGToPophono CompinA oí PonnJAPvin^i n
New Weather Condition 
Analyser Developed
An instrument which analyzes temperature and relative humidity and in a single reading indicates prevailing . weather conditions In terms of personal comfort has been developed...-at one of the .leading Eastern-colleges. '
The device' combines a .bimetal thermometer and a hair-hygvometer which,, reacting to temperature and humidity, ' registers atmospheric conditions in .a single reading.
.. The device, . known as .'an air mass indicator, is expected to be' of special value for warning fliers of their dangerous conditions of 16BB5Fa0ni6~~siiti"—humidity—~ which ice. begins to form on a 
plane '.wings.The Instrument does not .make. _ay weather forecasts' but merely analyzes prevailing weather condi­tions. Its. operation Is based on' the. knowledge tbat indications of weather - conditions are found by analysis of the great air masses of the«atmosphere;
Changes in weather, such tow, rain and wind, occur at boundaries or frcncs Qf air masses contrasting masses meet.
Anything else Sir ?
Nothing else
— they Satisfy !
Cigarettes .ire made 
for your pleasure and for jour 
enjoyment... nothing else.
And when i cigarette
