t
Volume 84, Issue 15
tVolum
tVol
•The Ellis Gallery in CFA 
hosts an exhibit of artistic
software.
See page 3.
•Crime and incident 
report: A thief strikes at a 
fraternity party and steals 
several partygoers’jackets.
See page 3.
ume84
•Pornographic art display 
interferes with working 
environment.
See page 6.
°Open Forum is here. 
What does the Carnegie 
Mellon community think 
about education in the 
1990s?
See page 9.
,Imesl
•This weekend’s hockey 
action has the Tartans 
facing Allegheny and Pitt.
See page 10.
•The basketball teams 
look to competition on the 
road this weekend against 
Chicago and Washington.
See page 10.
•Intramural basketball 
kicks off with majors, 
intermediate, minors, and 
women-only competition.
See page 13.
uV1s8eVl
•Contrary to popular’ 
belief, the Beaux Arts Ball 
is not held every four years.
See page LI.
• Javi contemplates the 
American holiday, Ground­
hog Day.
See page L3.
5fCVelfmal
JP.
ft
“Enjoy an evening of 
cynical humor and devilish 
antics at The Threepenny 
Opera.
See page Lll.
0 Carnegie Mellon drama 
professor Scott T. Cum­
mings directs the City 
Theatre Company produc­
tion of Harry and Claire.
See page Lll.
index
Classifieds..........................13
Diversions........................Lll
Features............................LI
Forum....................................6
Sports.................................10
University Calendar.......14
Vox Populi..........................14
THE TARTAN
Carnegie Mellon University. Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania
¦________________________________________________________
'Qätlrak-
t e 8V...
4 ' *
Thomas Nichols/Tartan Photo Editor
Shawn Gettemy, a CIT freshman, displays the latest fruits of the mouse traps that were set In his room, Mudge B-316. Four mice were 
caught in this room within two days after Physical Plant set the traps. Housing Maintenance Is now working with Rentokil to try to 
alleviate the problem.
Of Mice and Mudge ...
Rummaging rodents establish residence in dormitory
By FARRON W. LEVY
Tartan Assistant News Editor
“I don’t particularly want to be sleep­
ing and wake up with a mouse on my 
face,” says Darren Kastin, the resident 
assistant on Mudge E-Wing’s third floor. 
RA training guidelines to the contrary, 
Kastin is not thrilled about his newest 
residents.
According to Kastin, a mouse problem 
was apparent before winter break. “The 
first sign of mice that we found was in 
room B-308. A mouse ran from one closet 
to another, right along the base of the 
closet, and apparently it disappeared 
into a hole.”
Kastin called Housing Maintenance 
after the initial sighting, and Physical 
Plant came and set up snap traps.
Shortly thereafter, a mouse was 
caught and it was believed that the 
problem was solved.
After break, however, another trap had 
a mouse in it. Again, it seemed insignifi­
cant. Since things indicated that the 
problem remained, Kastin filed a formal 
report with Housing Maintenance on 
January 23. Physical Plant came on 
January 30 and set more traps, this time 
including rooms B-316 and B-317, which 
had also reported hearing mice.
Within hours of setting the traps, 
three mice were caught in B-316. Shortly
after, one more was caught in the same 
room.
“It all started when bread in my 
suitemate’s dresser drawer was par­
tially eaten by mice about a week ago,” 
explains Shawn Gettemy, a CIT fresh­
man who lives in B-316. “Then, a little 
later on, I heard one in my dresser. We 
both reported it to [Kastin].”
“I saw the janitor on this floor,” 
recalls Kastin, “and I said to him, “You 
know we have mice,’ he said ‘yeah, I 
saw one run across the hall from the 
storage room down the hall.’ ”
As the residents of 3-B dealt with 
their problems, A-tower was also
continued on page 3
6 February 1990
CMU wins 
2nd NSF 
research 
center
By NICOLE BROCKMANN
Tartan Staffwriter
“Outstanding” was the word used 
by Carnegie Mellon Provost Angel 
Jordan to describe the University’s 
reputation in magnetics technology.
Apparently, the National Science 
Foundation agrees.
The foundation has awarded fund­
ing to Carnegie Mellon to establish 
an Engineering Research Center thát 
will research and develop magnetic 
and magneto-optical recording and 
storage technologies.
The new center, called the Data 
Storage Systems Center, will incor­
porate Carnegie Mellon’s Magnetic 
Technology Center and will receive 
$1.97 million from NSF in its first 
year, with possibly up to $14.6 mil­
lion in NSF funding within the next 
five years. Carnegie Mellon will con­
tribute $1.7 million for capital equip­
ment.
Carnegie Mellon is the only univer­
sity in the country to have been 
awarded two Engineering Research 
Centers by NSF. The first, the Engi­
neering Design Research Center, was 
established in 1985.
According to Electrical and Com­
puter Engineering professor Mark 
Kryder, the director of the Magnetic 
Technology Center and the newly- 
selected director of the DSSC, there 
is a tremendous need for more Ameri­
can research in the fields of magnetic 
and magneto-optical recording.
Currently, he says, only a few 
American universities have research 
programs in these areas. These uni­
versities include the University. of 
Arizona, the University of California 
at San Diego, the University of Min­
nesota, and the University of Santa 
Clara.
Kryder says that to understand why 
so few universities have established 
centers for magnetic research, one 
must know the background of the 
field.
continued on page 4
Alumni trustees spearhead University Center fundraising
By HOWDY PIERCE
Tartan Editor-in-Chief
Two months after Carnegie Mellon’s 
Board of Trustees committed the Univer­
sity to the project, five alumni members of 
the Board have made “leadership dona­
tions” to the University Center totalling 
more than $3 million, according to Vice 
President for Development David Maloney.
Four of the gifts, from trustees Theodore 
D. Nierenberg, Orion L. Hoch, Stephen L. 
Jatras, and William Goldsmith, were
GSIA students 
lead collegiate 
investors
By BIDISHA MUKHERJEE
Tartan Staffwriter
For Bill Matem and David Wal- 
lack, a typical day entails checking 
the daily activity of the stock mar­
ket and spending forty-five minutes 
on the phone discussing what to do 
with their stock portfolio.
Judging by their performance, it’s 
a well-spent forty-five minutes; the 
duo has climbed to fourth place 
among a national group of 15,000 
such investors.
Each day they decide whether they 
are going to buy or sell, hold the 
stocks long or sell them short. Most 
importantly, they tabulate their 
gains and losses.
It sounds like the two twenty- 
nine-year-oldsarejustlike any other 
investors. But these GSIA students
,Isl15 lo f15Ca fo CVrnlmVugi fVu lVmrrmMalUm fo 
fVi vgfMm M5Cgu 1my .
— Pbm5u5nm hlmnmV1mn'* 
TfnVm'lm Nmgg5V anCoamm fVu fgCcVCo
announced by Carnegie Mellon’s Develop- trustee Thomas McConomy and his wife 
ment Office last week. Eileen, the recent round of gifts brings the
When coupled with the $1 million dona- University Center project to $3.2 million, 
tion announced three weeks ago from Nierenberg was the chair of the commit-
tee which put together Carnegie Mellon’s 
most recent Master Plan, including the 
University Center. “I’ve certainly under­
stood the need for the building,” he said. 
“Skibo is about as unfriendly and ineffec­
tive as any place could be.”
Nierenberg, who donated $1 million, is 
the founder and retired president and chair 
of Dansk International Designs, a com­
pany that specializes in home furnishings. 
He graduated from Carnegie Mellon in 
1944 with a degree in management engi- 
continued on page 4
Statistics drops fees 
for intro level courses
Thomas Nichols/Tartan Photo Editor 
GSIAgrad students David Wallack(left) and Bill Mattern plot their investment 
strategy for the AT&T Investment Challenge.
are participating in the AT&T Col­
legiate Investment Challenge, and 
it’s a “ghost portfolio” they’re man­
aging.
The Challenge is run by Wall 
Street Games. Any student in high
school or college is eligible after 
paying the entry fee of $49.95.
The object of the game is to make 
the largest profit on $500,000 in 
play money over a four month pe- 
continued on page 5
By ANDREW WHEELER
Tartan Staffwriter
The Statistics Department 
will no longer charge students 
a course fee for class materi­
als in one of its large, intro­
ductory course sequences.
Last semester, a five dollar 
fee was charged to students 
enrolled in 36-209, Probabil­
ity and Applied Statistics for 
Management and Social Sci­
ences I, in order to cover costs 
for copying such materials as 
homework assignments and 
solutions, the syllabus, and 
examinations.
The Tartan reported last fall 
that this was the only such fee 
charged within the University 
— other classes charged fees 
for material copied from and 
used as texts, but no others
charged for what is consid­
ered general class material.
The about-face in policy 
comes after discussion of the 
issue at a meeting of the H&SS 
College Council. In the course 
of this discussion, several al­
ternatives were presented, 
includingthe possibility of cre­
ating Andrew files that con­
tain course materials to which 
all students would have ac­
cess. “We all felt that the 
conclusion was positive,” said 
Joseph Devine, associate dean 
of H&SS.
“We’ll lose some dollars, but 
I think it’s the right policy,” 
said John Lehoczky, Statis­
tics Department head. For 
now, the fee is simply being 
dropped, and the burden of 
copying costs will be shoul- 
continued on page 5

---------------------------------------------------

2The Tartan • Carnegie Mellon • 6 February 1990
Carnegie Mellon in Brief
Senate hears calls for 
increase in Activities Fee
Student Government Treasurer Lisa Melenyzer indicated at 
last Tuesday’s Senate meeting that the Student Activities Fee 
might be increased for the coming school year. According to 
Melenyzer, the fee must be raised if it is to support the growing 
number of organizations to which Senate allocates funds.
Melenyzer did not speculate to what level the fee, currently set 
‘ at eighty dollars per year for full-time students, might be raised.
The proposal must first pass through Senate’s Funding and 
Recognition Committee, and then through the full Senate. If both 
' groups approve the increase, a referendum will be placed before 
the student body. Final approval, however, must come from Car­
negie Mellon’s Board of Trustees.
Senate F&R Committee 
discusses future fiscal policies
A new fiscal policy has been proposed by the Senate Funding 
and Recognition Committee. F&R Chair Nicole Brockmann, a 
CFA senator, says that there are no major changes in the policy, 
which will come before the full Senate for approval tonight. She 
says that the new policy is needed to clarify points in the current 
policy that are unclear or outdated.
Brockmann also announced that she has ordered the audits of 
all organizations funded by the Student Activities Fee. The 
audits are mandated by Senate’s fiscal policy, but have been 
largely ignored in the past.
Brockmann indicated that under ideal conditions all groups 
' would be audited this year, but because it may not be possible this 
late in the year, those groups demonstrating financial irrespon­
sibility would be among those audited first.
Footbridge between MMCH and 
Skibo will close next week
The footbridge between Margaret Morrison Carnegie Hall and 
Skibo will be taken out of service on Monday, according to 
Thomas Murphy, Physical Plant’s director of construction.
Murphy said that it is necessary to take the bridge out of service 
in order to finish that area of the construction site. He also 
indicated that the footbridge would re-open in early April, pro­
vided that weather is cooperative with efforts to construct a walk­
way and finish landscaping in the area.
Student wins art competition
Teri Rueb, a senior in CMU’s Art Department, painted one of 
the two winning entries in the “Art at Large” competition co­
sponsored by the Patrick Media Group, Inc., and the Pittsburgh 
Center of the Arts.
Rueb’s winning entry depicts the Pittsburgh skyline with 
houses in the foreground. She describes the work as her “re­
sponse to time spent here as a student.”
The completed artwork was enlarged and reproduced on 14 by 
18 foot roadside billboards throughout Pittsburgh. The public art 
display will move to several locations throughout the city for 
increased exposure and visibility. The Pittsburgh Center of the 
Arts will design and market a poster of Rueb’s entry.
WORLD NEWS
Party appoints 
new leader in 
Bulgaria
SOFIA, Bulgaria (AP) — The 
Communist Party appointed a 
new leader Friday who has criti­
cized hard-liners and indicated 
he would speed the pace of demo­
cratic reforms sought by the 
nation’s emerging opposition 
movement.
Alexander Lilov, taking power 
following a secret party session 
that ousted top Old Guard lead­
ers, has promised to overhaul his 
party before multiparty elections, 
scheduled for May.
Outgoing party boss Petar 
Mladenov will remain as state 
president. Bowingto demands for 
reform, he had proposed that the 
head of the Communist Party and 
the head of state be separated.
The changes, announced by the 
party, were the latest since Mlad­
enov replaced Todor Zhivkov, the
hard-line Communist leader 
whose 35-year rule ended on Nov. 
10, and promised elections and 
other democratic reforms.
The Central Committee was 
renamed as the party’s Supreme 
Council.
Researchers 
report progress 
in AIDS research
NEW YORK (AP) — Scientists 
say they have created what ap­
pear to be the most potent sub­
stances yet studied for stopping 
the AIDS virus from reproducing, 
based on test-tube results.
The class of compounds appar­
ently sabotages a process involv­
ing a virus enzyme called reverse 
transcriptase, the scientists said.
The compounds have not yet 
been tested on humans for effec­
tiveness, but one ofthe substances 
was tried on six healthy men who 
tolerated it without major side 
effects.
Researchers conducted labora­
tory studies of compounds called 
TIBO derivatives. In their tests, 
the compounds inhibited repro­
duction of the AIDS virus at con­
centrations that were 10,000 to
100,000 times lower than what 
would kill cells.
U.S. officials 
downplay German 
reunification
BRUSSELS (AP) — A top U.S. 
official cast doubt on immediate 
prospects for U.S. support for a 
proposal by East German Pre­
mier Hans Modrow to forge a 
reunited German state that would 
eventually be neutral.
“The right thing to do is to wait 
until East Germany has had elec­
tions and has a democratically 
elected government in place and 
take up the subject at that time,” 
said William H. Taft IV, the U.S. 
ambassador to the North Atlantic 
Treaty Organization.
Taft said a unified Gernii 
anchored in the Western allia_ 
“is a much better idea in term^ 
contributing to the stability at 
security of Europe.”
West German Foreign Minist« 
Hans-Dietrich Genscher ha 
suggested that a joint Gerihaj 
remain a part of NATO but thi 
only West German territory 
tied to its military structure.
Former E. German] 
leader released 
from prison
EAST BERLIN (AP) — Ousfe 
East German leader Erickl 
Honecker was freed from prisJ 
after less than two days in view'J 
his frail health.
The disgraced former Comm4 
nist Party boss who faces a Marti) 
treason trial left Rummelsbu'J 
prison in a police-escortedmotSr| 
cade that slipped out through ¡| 
rear exit of the walled, red-brii 
compound.
? NATIONAL NEWS
-----g----------------------------------------------------------------------
T5nnmMal5Vo...
In last week’s issue, the photos accompanying the story “Eight 
CMU professors visit the Soviet Union” on page LI were incor­
rectly credited. The photos were taken by Petra Fallaux.
In last week’s issue [“Conviction in computer virus case fails to 
sway CMU policy or officials”], Director of Academic Computing 
Joan Mitchell’s name was reported incorrectly.
Bush calls for 
troop cuts on 
European soil
WASHINGTON (DJ) — Presi­
dent Bush, in a relentlessly up­
beat State of the Union message, 
called for larger cuts in U.S. and 
Soviet forces in Europe than he 
had previously proposed. He also 
said the U.S. invasion force in 
Panama will be withdrawn by the 
end of this month.
“It’s time to build on our new 
relationship with the Soviet Un­
ion,” Bush said, calling for the 
U.S. and Soviet Union to reduce 
forces in Central and Eastern 
Europe to 195,000 troops on each 
side. Under his proposal, the U.S. 
could keep 30,000 troops else­
where in Europe, though.
“The time is right to move for­
ward on a conventional arms- 
control agreement to move us to 
more appropriate levels of mili­
tary forces in Europe — a coher­
ent defense program that ensures 
the U.S. will continue to be a 
catalyst for peaceful change in 
Europe,” Bush said.
The president’s proposal repre-
sents an attempt to catch up with 
the political forces for troop with­
drawals that have swept Europe 
in recent months. He made it after 
having his aides secretly inform 
allies about the plan last week. 
He also called Soviet leader 
Mikhail Gorbachevto inform him; 
a senior administration official 
said that the Soviet chief consid­
ered the proposal “helpful.”
Democrats 
challenge Bush’s 
line on taxes
WASHINGTON (DJ) — Demo­
cratic leaders moved to engage 
the administration in a wider tax 
debate last Wednesday, saying 
that the President’s proposal to 
raise $13.9 billion in new reve­
nues has opened the way for 
negotiations beyond capital gains, 
new user fees, and tax extensions.
Democratic lawmakers, while 
critical of Bush’s $1.23 trillion 
budget for fiscal 1991, have been 
careful not to slam his plan to cut 
the capital gains tax.
Such a plan, which has wide 
support on both sides of Capitol 
Hill, is viewed as a vehicle strong
enough to pull a number of tax 
measures that Bush might other­
wise not support.
After a day of grilling Budget 
Director Richard Darman, House 
Budget Chairman Leon Panetta 
(D-Calif.) insisted that the reve­
nue package is one of the only 
areas of flexibility within the 
budget.
Asked whether Democrats hope 
to leverage Bush into debate that 
would include all taxes, even 
higherincome taxes, Panetta said, 
“I certainly hope so.”
House Speaker Thomas Foley 
(D-Wash.) said the administra­
tion appears willing to negotiate.
“I think Mr. Darman seemed to 
say ... that they didn’t object to 
revenues being discussed,” said 
Foley. “They only wanted reve­
nues to support economic growth.”
Bush has proposed a capital 
gains plan that would perma­
nently reduce the rate to 19.6 
percentfor assets held three years, 
raising $4.9 billion in fiscal 1991. 
He also proposes a wide mix of 
new fees and tax code changes, 
such as raising the airline ticket 
fee from eight percent to ten per­
cent and permanently extending 
the telephone excise tax.
Senate blasts 
defense budget
WASHINGTON (DJ) — jg> 
bers of the Senate Armed Ssn 
ices Committee called Friday foi 
substantially deeper and fs 
cuts in U.S. troops overseas.
Signaling determination to jet 
tison large chunks of the 1991 de 
fense budget, members alsi 
blasted proposed stepped-u) 
spending for long-range nucjeji 
weapons and the Strategic 
fense Initiative. They also indi 
cated that this year, unlike previ 
ous years, the committee is likelj 
to demand that the Air Force seal 
back its $60 billion plan to b 
132 B-2 Stealth bombers by/tk 
late 1990s.
News Briefs courtesy 
of Dow Jones, Inc.
Page two edited by 
Seth Luckman 
and 3 
Mark Musolino
ALL ORGANIZATIONS
wishing to receive Student Activities Funding
from Student Senate for 
the fiscal year beginning July 1, 1990
should send a representative to 
srV ,Iefan 1990 
men1afg1sfma1i M8UnVs 4VVsfan
on Thursday, February 8, at 7 pm 
in Skibo Room 13. 
If you have any questions, 
call Nicole Brockmann at x2115.
Special Interest Houses
The 
Housing Office 
is now accepting applications 
from groups of student who would like to 
be considered for residency in one of the seven 
Special Interest Houses.
Each Special Interest House in the Margaret Morrison Complex is a 4-bedroom,
8-person apartment. Three additional Special Interest Groups will be housed in 
the new residence hall. Two 8-person houses will include 3 double rooms and two 
single rooms; the 7-person house consists of 3 single rooms and 2 double rooms. 
While all 8-person houses include 2 bathrooms, the 7-person suite has just one 
bathroom. As a result, the 7-person house must be occupied by members of the 
same sex. The Margaret Morrison houses include a kitchen and living room. The 
new suites do not include a kitchen.
The specific goal of the Housing Office in providing the Special Interest Houses is to 
encourage situations where the living environment complements the learning opportunities 
of the residents involved and where specific educational goals outlined by the member- 
residents are understood and enhanced.
If more than 7 groups of students submit applications for these Special Interest Houses, a 
decision will be based on a comparison of the educational goals presented and the likelihood of 
serious educational benefit derived from residency in this type of living situation.
Application forms are available in the Housing Office and must be filled out and returned by:
February 16, 1990

---------------------------------------------------

The Tartan • Carnegie Mellon • 6 February 19903
CFA’s Ellis Gallery hosts artistic software exhibition
gy MARK HALL
Tartan Staffwriter
If you’d like to get your hands on some 
-(if the newest artistic software and com­
puter tools, go to CFA’s Ellis Gallery 
some time this week. Several programs 
ecently purchased by the Hunt Library’s 
Educational Software Collection will be 
-pliable for the remainder of this week 
et\veen 11:30 am and 5 pm. The exhibit 
close Friday.
6l; Ip addition to color painting and draw- 
' '^utilities, the exhibit includes Fracta- 
Sketch and The Game of Fractal Images. 
i These programs allow the user to gener­
ate and manipulate a variety of black 
and white or color images developed from 
self-symmetric geometric curves known 
as fractals.
Another program included in the ex­
hibit is The Portrait of the Artist as Infor­
mation Processor on Art Engine: A Sym­
bolic Machine. This software explores 
the associations between images and text. 
Based on Macintosh’s HyperCard and 
the Scheme programming language, it 
may require more than a cursory famili­
arity with computers.
Also advertised for demonstration is 
Art Com, an electronic network catering 
to interests in art and technology. Art
Corn’s touted features include the Art 
Com Magazine, a journal reporting as­
pects of art in such areas as telecommu­
nication, performance, and video. Intern­
ship, fellowship, exhibition, and compe­
tition listings are also available.
In addition, Art Com sustains interac­
tive art telecommunication events such 
as the current Border Axes, an exchange 
between participants from the U.S. and 
Mexico revolving around the two na­
tions’ border. Art Corn’s Electronic Art 
Gallery is a collection of interactive fic­
tion, visual poetry, and other digital 
works.
Tim Anderson of Hunt Library’s Fine
Arts Reference said that students will be 
allowed free and unlimited use of Art 
Com throughout the week of the demon­
stration.
In addition, students are allotted two 
hours of use without cost for other times. 
Art Com is available at the Ellis Gallery 
through the remainder of the week, and 
can be accessed at the library’s Fine Arts 
Reference desk during the rest of the 
year.
Anderson indicated that the demon­
stration, sponsored by the University 
Libraries, Studio for Creative Inquiry, 
and the Art Department, will highlight 
the library’s software acquisitions while
making students more aware of tfcje 
Educational Software Collection. Fe^v 
students realize that software from th(e 
collection differs from that provided fcjy 
academic computing and is available fc)r 
checking out or for use within Hui)t 
Library’s Apple Orchard computer clus­
ter.
Wendy Plesniak of the Studio for Crea­
tive Inquiry said that the Ellis Gallery 
demonstration is intended to increase 
art students’ accessibility to and famili­
arity with art software. She said inquir­
ies about software tutorials during the 
demonstration can be made at the gal­
lery.
Crime and incident report: Jacket thieves strike Kappa Sigma party
1/26 TELEPHONE HARASS-
"NT, 8:22 pm. A student re­
ported that he has received at 
Jeast 30 harassing phone calls 
„from several different callers since 
coming back to school from win-
• break. According to the com­
plainant, the calls all happened 
etween 2 and 3 am and consisted 
-gf either funny noises, insults, or 
¦jexual advances. The callers never 
hysically threatened the student. 
1/26 DISTURBANCE, 11:12 
I pm. A woman living in London
Terrace Apartments complained 
that the residents of a nearby 
apartment were laughing, 
screaming, stomping loudly 
through their apartment, and 
intentionally throwing objects on 
the floor in an attempt to harass 
her. Carnegie Mellon Police offi­
cers found no disturbances in any 
apartment in the complex. Two 
women who lived in the apart­
ment in which the alleged distur­
bance originated expressed shock 
and surprise that someone would
complain about them; they said 
that they were both quiet and 
reserved by nature and that they 
kept to themselves most of the 
time. The two were informed that 
a report would be written because 
a complaint was received, but that 
it would reflect that there ap­
peared to be no problem.
1/27 THEFT, 2:34 am. A black 
leather jacket with a zippered 
front and two side pockets was 
stolen from Kappa Sigma during 
a party. The jacket contained the
owner’s ID and keys.
1/27 THEFT, 2:51 am. A dark 
brown Wilson suede and leather 
jacket with a zippered front was 
stolen from Kappa Sigma during 
a party. The jacket contained 
assorted keys and other personal 
belongings of the owner.
1/27 THEFT, early am. Along 
black cotton and wool top coat 
with a button front and a belt 
closure was stolen from Kappa 
Sigma during a party.
1/30 SUSPICIOUS PERSON,
7:55 pm. A Carnegie Mellon stu­
dent reported that a man asked 
him if he had any marijuana that 
he could purchase. The student 
told the man that he didn’t have 
any, but gave him a bogus name 
and phone number to call to pur­
chase marijuana. This informa­
tion was given to delay him until 
Carnegie Mellon Police were no­
tified. The responding officers 
could not find the man later, so 
they asked the people whose 
phone number had been given to
notify Carnegie Mellon Police if;a 
call was received. ;
1/30 MEDICAL CALL, 5:14 
pm. An assistant shop supervisor 
shot a two and a half inch staple 
through his lower right thumb. 
The victim was transported to 
West Penn Hospital by Carnegie 
Mellon Police.
1/31 SMOKING, 4:05 pm. 
Carnegie Mellon faculty member 
reported that even though smok­
ing is not permitted in the Physi- 
continued on page 4
Rodents establish residency in Mudge House
continued from page 1
getting a taste of the action. Kevin 
j^arsh, the.program assistant who 
besides in Mudge, heard a mouse 
in his room (A-101) and reported 
it to Housing. A similar scenario 
occurred on third floor A-tower. 
Rentokil set traps which in each 
^‘instance eventually caught a 
mouse.
Since then, sightings have in­
creased. Sophomore IM major 
John Tang and sophomore archi- 
major Jene Chae live in B- 
*418. “We’ve seen mice a couple 
tithes,” says Tang. “We heard one 
lihside the [food storage] crate on 
•“wir dresser, we tried to catch it, 
¦^utitgot away.”
Junior English major Sheila 
¡Fesrelly, a resident in A-202, has 
i'Hwd in Mudge for three years 
has never seen mice in the 
'Mlding before. Now, she says, 
M thinking of moving off cam­
pus — it’s really disgusting.” 
"Apparently the problem isn’t as 
bad-as in B-tower, but as Farrelly 
points out, “They’re about. I’ve 
seen them in the bathroom.”
According to residents who have 
had mouse problems, the rodents 
are using holes which connect 
along the base of the dressers and 
closets. Traps set in front of them 
and baited with peanut butter 
have been the most effective.
According to Housing Mainte­
nance Coordinator Ida Czarnecki, 
Housing was only informed of the 
extent of the problem recently. 
“We have a contract with Ren­
tokil,” she said. “They come every 
Tuesday morning, we give them 
any reports we have, and they 
stay here all day if the have to.”
Czarnecki said that the first
Thomas Nichols/Tartan Photo Editor
Shawn Gettemy caught four mice in his room shortly after the traps were set by physical plant. Residents 
of Mudge 3-B say that the mice seem to have acquired a taste for peanut butter; Gettemy is pictured here 
baiting yet another trap.
report filed with her office was 
dated January 23. “There’s only 
one way we can do anything, and 
that’s if we’re notified,” she said. 
“We’re really in the dark on this 
one.”
Amy Ginther, assistant direc­
tor of housing for residence life, 
was equally surprised to hear of 
the problem. “The first I heard of
it was when Kevin [Marsh] called 
and said that he had seen a mouse. 
At the time, I couldn’t get into the 
office to get some traps, so I went 
out and bought some,” she said.
Like Czarnecki, Ginther said 
she wasn’t informed that the mice 
were an ongoing problem until 
Kastin told her at the beginning 
of this semester.
According to Czarnecki, there 
is no significant history of pest 
problems in Mudge. Furthermore, 
she said, mice are rare anywhere 
on campus; most complaints cen­
ter around bees, roaches, fruit 
flies, and occasionally silverfish.
Czarnecki told The Tartan that 
her office was advising Rentokil 
of the situation immediately.
ORDER YOUR COPY OF
THE 1990 THISTLE YEARBOOK
The 1990 Thistle contains approximately 300 pages; it will cover every aspect of CMU life. The 1990 Thistle 
..-.-sells for $27, and only a very limited number will be printed. If you wish to have the book sent to you, there is a $3 
^postage and handling fee. The book will be sent to any address you desire. Be advised that once a yearbook has 
,, Abeen mailed to the address that was indicated, we can no longer be responsible forthat book. Use the address where 
ryou expect to be in October 1990. To order, use the form below. Any questions can be answered by calling The Thistle 
>ff at X2121. Thank you for your order. See Qur Qther ad Qn page L2
The 1990 Thistle Yearbook Order Form
Last Name: ________
Local Phone Number: 
Local Street Address: . 
Local City, State, Zip: .
First Name:.
Do you want the book(s) sent? Yes / No
If yes, to which address? Local / Other 
Other: _________________________
ume fasVea1i 8lV maiv 
5y......... Pt...
Total Due: (__ book(s) y $27) + (__ book(s) shipped x $3) = .
Submit this form and a check made out to The Thistle to Skibo 46A or the Information Desk. No cash will be 
accepted unless the order is placed with a Thistle staffmember in Skibo Room 46A.
PARSONSSCHOOL OF DESIGN
Special Summer Programs
Parsons in Paris June 30-August 13
Paint on the Left Bank, explore prehistoric caves in the Dordogne, visit the 
masterpieces of renaissance art in Tuscany. Courses include painting, drawing, 
art history and the liberal arts. Students may choose to spend the last two 
weeks of the program in the Dordogne or Cortona, Italy.
Photography in Paris June 30-July 30
Study both the aesthetics and the craft of photography in the city that has in­
spired great photographers for 150 years. Guest lecturers and visits to Parisian 
galleries supplement the curriculum.
Fashion in Paris June 30-July 30
Study the history and contemporary trends of French fashion design through 
visits to Parisian museums and costume collections. Guest lecturers and visits 
to design studios and retail outlets are part of the program, as are daily classes 
in fashion illustration.
History of Architecture and Decorative Arts in Paris June 30-July 30
Offered in collaboration with the renowned Museé des Arts Décoratifs, this pro­
gram focuses on the history of French architecture and European decorative 
arts. Excursions to points outside of Paris are included; last summer, students 
visited Versailles, Vaux le Vicomte and Fontainebleau.
Modern Paris June 30-July 30
Combining architectural history with drawing, this program focuses on the 
development of Paris in the modern period (1830 to the present).
Paleolithic Art and Archaeology ot the Dordogne July 29-August 13
Daily class sessions near the town of Les Eyzies de Tayac, in southwestern 
France, are devoted to lectures and guided visits to the area's famous and less 
well-known prehistoric caves, living sites and archaeological excavations.
History of Architecture in Italy July 13-August 11
The architectural heritage of Italy is studied in Rome. Florence and Venice 
where on-site presentations are made by Parsons faculty.
History of Architecture and Decorative Arts in Great Britain 
July 10-August 10
This four-week curriculum, covering the years 1600-1900, is offered in London, 
with several excursions to nearby towns and country houses.
Graphic Design in Japan July 16-August 14
Design students and professionals will discover the excitement of Japanese 
advertising and graphic design through workshops, seminars and presenta­
tions by internationally known designers. Studio, museum and gallery visits 
supplement the curriculum, which emphasizes the sources, in the traditional 
arts, of much contemporary Japanese design.
Parsons in Israel July 23-August 19
Offered in collaboration with Jerusalem's Bezalel Academy of Arts and Design, 
the program provides an m-depth introduction to major sites of historical impor­
tance, to the rudiments of archaeological practice and to techniques of artistic 
representation.
Parsons in West Africa July 2-August 1 and August 4-August 25
Workshops in ceramics and fibers will introduce students to artists and artisans 
in several Ivory Coast villages, where these crafts can be studied in their 
original context. A photography curriculum examines techniques of documen­
tation and reportage in regions of great natural beauty and cultural diversity.
The history of African art and architecture also is offered. Additional study in 
Mali may be taken as a separate option, or as a continuation of the Ivory Coast 
program.
All programs include round trip airfare, accommodations and land transfers. 
Academic credit is available to qualified students. For more information, please 
return the coupon or call:
(212) 741-8975
Parsons School of Design 
Office of Special Programs 
66 Fifth Avenue, N.Y., N.Y. 10011
Please send information about:
? Parsons in Paris
? Photography in Paris
? Fashion in Paris
? Architecture & Decorative 
Arts in Paris
? Modern Paris
? Paleolithic Art
? Architecture in Italy
? Architecture in Great Britain
? Graphic Design in Japan
? Parsons in Israel
? Parsons in West Africa
Address
Ci'yZip

---------------------------------------------------

4The Tartan • Carnegie Mellon • 6 February 1990
*If you arc already a student American Express Cardmember and have a question about this program, please send your written question, a copy of vour student ID and class schedule to: American Express, P.O. Box 35029, 
Attn: Student Marketing, Greensboro, NC 27425. Fare is for roundtrip travel on Northwest Airlines. Tickets must be purchased within 24 hours after making reservations. Fares are nonrefundable and no itinerary changes 
may be made after purchase. Seats at this fare are limited and may not be available when you call. Travel must originate by certificate expiration date and be completed within 60 days of that date. Travel may not be available 
between cities to which Northwest docs not have published routings. City fuel surcharges not included in fare from Boston (S2.50), Chicago (S5.00), Denver (S2.00) and Florida cities (S2.00). Certain blackout dates and 
other restrictions may apply. For complete offer details, call 1-800-942-AMEX. ©1990 American Express Travel Related Services Company, Inc.
THE AMERICAN EXPRESS® CARD. FOR STUDENTS MORE THAN EVER.
CMU wins NSF center
C&l: Thieves 
hit fraternity
continued from page 3
cal Plant Building, people are still 
smoking in the building. Com­
plaints were made to Environ­
mental Health and Safety and 
the Personnel, according to the 
complainant, but no action was 
taken to rectify the situation.
1/31 PRANK, 9:27 am. Re­
sponding to a complaint, Carne­
gie Mellon Police officers found 
that someone had wedged a piece 
of plywood in the door of room 304 
in Welch Hall and another in the 
cbrridor near room 304, making 
access to rooms 301,302, and 303 
impossible. CMU Police dis­
mantled the plywood.
2/2 ARSON, 2:26 am. The 
Morewood Gardens A-Tower Desk 
Attendant phoned Campus Po­
lice and reported that the lobby 
entrance to Morewood Gardens 
A-Tower was filled with smoke. 
Two Carnegie Mellon Police offi­
cers responded to the call, and 
upon arrival discovered that the 
source of the fire was a plastic 
tf ash container in the men’s room 
aj; the A-Tower entrance. The fire 
h&d been put out before the offi­
cers arrived. No one was seen 
leaving the area during the fire. 
Compiled by DANIEL D.
DE GRANDPRE
RESEARCH PAPERS
19,278 to choose from - all subjects 
Order Catalog Today with Visa/MC or COD 
TOLL FREE HOTLINE: 800-351-0222
Or rush $2.00 to: Research Assistance 
11322 Idaho Ave., «206-SN Los Angeles.CA 90025
Valentine's Day SpecialOne pound fresh chocolates, one Valentine card shipped anywhere in the continential U.S. 
All for only $12.00 
Will Sell Chocolates 73S Copeland at Walnut Shadyside 682-1441
WIN A HAWAIIAN VACATION 
OR BIG SCREEN TV 
PLUS RAISE UP TO $1,400 
IN JUST 10 DAYS!
Objective: Fundraiser
Commitment: Minimal 
Money: Raise $1,400
Cost: Zero Investment
Campus organizations, clubs, 
frats, sororities call OCMC at 
1(800)932-0528 or 1(800)950-8472 ext. 10
continued from page 1
According to Kryder, magnetic record­
ing was “invented” by IBM in the 1950s; 
however, at that time IBM had no re­
search division working on magnetic 
recording technologies. By the mid 1970s, 
other companies were springing up across 
the country with the need to develop 
magnetic recording technologies, he said.
A major impediment to the growth of 
American magnetic 
recordingtechniques, 
however, was that 
since IBM had not 
trained anyone in 
developing these 
techniques, no one 
was available at 
American universi­
ties to in turn teach 
them to others.
“It’s a ‘which came 
first—the chicken or 
the egg” game,” said 
Kryder.
In the late 1970s 
IBM began to take an 
interest in magnetic 
research. In 1978,
IBM founded the 
Magnetic Recording 
Institute, the first research facility of its 
kind in the Western Pennsylvania area. 
In 1983, CMU established the industri­
ally-funded MTC, and now in 1990 the 
next step on the road to magnetic record­
ing technologies is about to be taken 
with the establishment of the DSSC.
Kryder also points out that programs 
for magnetic research do not receive much 
support from the federal government.
Kryder, who came to Carnegie Mellon 
from IBM in 1978, not only organized 
and submitted the proposal for the Cen­
ter to NSF, but also was the key figure in 
the establishment of the MTC.
/E5vmrCggi* la 4lgg 
bfUm V5a 5Vgi fV 
lcvfMa 5V 'nfuCfam 
oaCumVao fVu rfMd
Cgai 1Ca 4lgg bfUm f 
ol'VlrlMfVa lcvfMa 
5V CVumn'nfuCfamo 
fo 4mggy.
Within the next five years, Kryder 
wants the DSSC to produce disk drives 
with over 25 times as much storage capa­
bility as today’s models. And his long­
term goals include another advance by a 
factor of 25; overall, Kryder feels the 
Center can produce computer hardware 
with storage densities, of over 600 times 
as much as today’s technology.
According to Kryder, magnetic and 
magneto-optical 
technology is now 
10,000 times as ad­
vanced as it was in 
the 1950s. He also 
said that industry 
progresses at a factor 
of two every two 
years. “We [the Cen­
ter] decided to go at 
twice that rate,” he 
explained.
“Hopefully, it will 
have not only an 
impact on graduate 
students and faculty 
but will have a sig-— Nfns Sniumn;
wIIT ulnmMa5n nificant imPact onundergraduates as 
¦¡¦¦¦¦¦¦¦¦¦¦¦I well,” he adds.
Kryder wants to 
include more information on magnetic 
and magneto-optical technology in the 
undergraduate courses taught by fac­
ulty associated with the Center in order 
to foster undergraduate interest in both 
the Center and the technology involved.
Kryder plans to schedule magnetics- 
related monthly plenary sessions which 
would ideally be aimed at undergradu­
ates, although he feels sure that a fair 
amount of graduate students and faculty 
would attend.
The opening of the Data Storage Sys­
tems Center at Carnegie Mellon is slated 
for April 15.
8fCVuni* 5n cfnobcfgg54oG *fp B.B
A washing machine caught on fire late Saturday night on the sixth floor of Centre Plaza Apartments. The residents of the sixth 
floor are all Carnegie Mellon students and staff. Housing Office officials did not know the cause of the fire. Freshman 
Jacques and senior Stephen Smith attempted to extinguish the flames, but were unable to completely put It out. The 
Pittsburgh Bureau of Fire responded to the alarm and finished extinguishing the fire.
Alumni trustees spearhead fundraising for Center
continued from page 1
neering and has been a trustee since 
1973.
“Up until the [November] trustees’ 
meeting, it was not clear to me... that it 
was a priority,” Nierenberg said. “But I 
think there’s really been a need for the 
Center, for a place for people to gather 
and congregate. Carnegie Mellon is re­
ally lacking in this area.”
Nierenberg’s gift was only one of four 
announced last week. Former Kiltie Band 
member Stephen Jatras is now the chair
of Memorex Telex USA and a life trustee. 
Jatras, who gave $500,000, graduatedin 
1947.
Orion Hoch, a 1952 Carnegie Mellon 
graduate with a degree in physics, is the 
chair and CEO of Litton Industries, Inc.; 
he arranged a $500,000 donation from 
the Litton Foundation in addition to his 
own personal gift of $100,000.
Life trustee William Goldsmith also 
donated $100,000. A 1940 graduate, 
Goldsmith is a retired chair and CEO of 
the Brooklyn-basedTubeco, Inc.; he has
served as president of the Andrew CaS, 
negie Society and as a member of tKS 
Alumni Executive Committee. "
According to Maloney, the fundraising 
strategy for the $41.5 million Universitj 
Center calls for the University to elicij i 
only $8 million from trustees; an aclig 
tional $22.5 million is targeted 
alumni.
Because alumni trustees are counSi 
in the first category, the recent doBaJ 
tions bring the trustee phase of the praj 
ect nearly halfway to completion.
118 roundtrip airfares on 
Northwest Airlines. 
It’s not just a great price. 
It’s a great experience.
:
APPLY TODAY
I TRAVEL
_¡SERVICES NORTHWESTAIRLINES
Only for student American Express’
Apply for the American Express® Card. Then get ready to take off. In search of adventure, action-or just simply to escape.American Express and Northwest Airlines have arranged these extraordinary travel privileges on Northwest-exclusively for student Cardmembers:¦ CERTIFICATES VALID FOR THE PURCHASE OF TWO $118 ROUNDTRIP TICKETS—to manyof the more than 180 cities in the 48 contig­uous United States served by Northwest. Each certificate is good for a six-month period, and they will arrive within six •weeks after you receive the Card. Current Cardmembers will automatically receive their $118 certificates by March 15,1990 provided they are still full time students*
¦ 10% OFF ANY NORTHWEST FLIGHT—withyour own personalized discount card, valid throughjanuary 1991 on all Northwest and Northwest Airlink flights. (This discount is not applicable to the $118 student certificates and other certificates, promotional or special status airfares.)¦ 2,500 BONUS MILES TOWARDS FREE TRAVEL—when you enroll in Northwest’s WorldPerks® Free Travel Program.
AND NOW BECOMING A CARDMEMBER ISAS EASY AS A TELEPHONE CALL. Just pick up the phone, call 1-800-942- AMEX, and talk to us. We’ll take your application and begin to process it immediately. (If you have your banking information handy, like your account number and bank address, it will help
Cardmembers.
speed the process.)Keep in mind that our Automatic Acceptance Program makes it easier for you to become a Cardmember now, as a student, than it will ever be again.And remember that as a Cardmem­ber you’ll enjoy all the exceptional benefits and personal service you would expect from American Express.So don’t miss out on a world of great experiences. Pick up the phone. Apply for the Card. And start packing!
Membership Has Its Privileges'1

---------------------------------------------------

The Tartan • Carnegie Mellon • 6 February 1990.5
Statistics Department drops fees for intro level course sequence
continued from page 1
rfered by Statistics.
I According to Lehoczky, the new
policy will be in effect in the
»foreseeable future.”
; The exception is when materi­
als used as text are copied. In 
6uch cases, the materials will be 
Copied and placed in the book­
store, where students will pur­
chase them just like any other 
fextbook.
¦ No formal college-wide decision 
J,r solution came out of the coun­
cil meeting, though three alter­
natives were discussed.
Parts of those plans included 
copying materials in advance and 
putting them on reserve in the 
library, selling text materials in 
the bookstore, and creating An­
drew files that contained the 
materials.
Creating Andrew files that are 
accessible by students through the 
use of the Andrew network was 
the most popular of the three 
possible solutions.
While Lehoczky is interested in 
the possibility of using Andrew to 
distribute materials, he does not 
see it as a viable solution right
now. Specifically, he cited incon­
venience to students as a possible 
stumbling block.
He also questioned the feasibil­
ity of the proposal but empha­
sized that it is worth investiga­
tion.
“[Using Andrew] is very fea­
sible,’’said Tracy Futhey, H&SS’s 
director of computing. In fact, 
according to Futhey, it has been 
done before in smaller courses 
successfully.
Problems might arise, however, 
when students print out all the 
material.
"-m3gg g5om o5cm u5ggfno* 1Ca t ablVs 
la3o abm nl'ba v5glMiy.
— 65bV 8mb5MFsi* 
IafaloalMo wmvfnacmVa bmfu
Since Academic Computing 
provides free printing, it would 
end up paying for the printing of 
the materials.
In effect, the copying costs would 
simply be transferred to Academic
C omputing instead of being elimi­
nated.
One possible solution to this 
problem, says Futhey, would in­
volve placing an electronic bar­
rier on the Andrew files that would
prevent students from print-¦ 
ing them.
Students would have to ei-; 
ther copy down information' 
that they need by hand from 
the screen or log on to Andrew 
any time they needed to do an' 
assignment or access that in­
formation.
Devine emphasized that the 
topic of course fees is open to 
farther discussion.
Eventually, a “college con-, 
sensus” might be reached and 
a formal set of guidelines put 
into effect, he said.
GSIA students lead collegiate investors in AT&T Investment Challenge
poMlned from page 1
Jiod. Players are given a list of 5000 
istocks listed on the NYSE, AMEX, and 
¡NASDAQ exchanges. Each player be- 
Vjns with a clean slate and $500,000 to 
invest.: MatemandWallack are participating 
Jn the challenge for its practical and 
Educational value.
| The educational benefits Matem and 
Wallack derive come from employing
the managerial strategies that they have 
learned at GSIA. They deal with daily 
gains andlosses, as actual investors must. 
Amongother things, WallackandMatem 
have gained practical experience in learn­
ing to do business with a partner. They 
believe that the experience and skills 
that they have acquired and the profit 
that they have made are concrete evi­
dence of their abilities.
Matem and Wallackspend aboutthree
hours each week and forty-five minutes 
on the phone each day working on their 
portfolio. They say that it is a commit­
ment they take very seriously.
The two feel that playing the game is 
fun. “Homework is essential,” they say.
Matem and Wallack must research 
the companies in the same way that real 
investors do, and they must go through 
all of the market and money figures 
before they decide to buy or sell.
Wallack said that they have a good 
reason for every transaction and that 
their ventures are “calculated risks.” 
Just like real investors too, they must 
take their losses and admit that they 
were wrong about some things. At one 
point, the team was two days away from, 
a 100 percent loss.
The game has been going on since 
November and will last until February 
28. The player with the most money will
win $25,000 and a trip for two to the 
Bahamas. Second and third prizes are 
$10,000 and $7,500, respectively.
Each week the official standings are 
published in the Money section of the 
Monday edition of USA Today. As of 
Monday, January 29th, Matern and 
Wallack were in fourth place out of 15,000 
participants. As of Thursday, they had 
recorded 70 percent returns and their 
balance is $799,000.
HORMON ES?
I A\ /p ROMANCE? SEDUCTION? PASSION? 
f ]\/ U JUST FRIENDS? INTIMATE LOVERS? 
WJ y L SEX? HUGS? KISSES? NUZZLES?
I | _ MAKING YOUR MOVE?
LI ¡VIZ THINKING ABOUT IT? 
¦ ¦ d&tK H»a VALENTINE'S DAY?LUSTSEE THE UNIVERSITY CALENDAR, PAGE 16.
Still making headlines.
Tartan News meetings.
Thursdays at 5:30 pm. 
Skibo Room 50 (The Tartan’s office).
If you're interested in joining the news staff of Carnegie Mellon1's 
national award-winning college newspaper, 
stop by one of our meetings.
Or, call Farron or Michael at x2111.THE TARTAN
Carnegie Mellon’s student newspaper since 1906.
•Are you overly concerned with your weight 
or appearance?
•Are you extremely afraid of becoming 
overweight?
•Do you frequently restrict your intake of 
food, go on diets or resort to the use of 
purging, laxatives, diuretics or vigorous exer­
cise to control your weight?
•Do you go on eating binges and feel guilty 
afterwards?
If you answer “yes” to any or all of these 
questions, consider joining a confidential 
Eating Disorders Group sponsored by the 
CMU Counseling center. The group will 
meet this semester for nine sessions. For 
more information call x2922.
COMPANY INFORMATION SESSION
UNITED TECHNOLOGIES
Otis Elevator Company 
Pratt & Whitney
Hamilton Standard
Monday, February 12, 1990 
7:30 to 9:00 p.m.
SKIBO HALL-Wherrett Room 
nmrnmobcmVao 4lgg 1m omnUmu

---------------------------------------------------

FORUM
Postering policy is a positive plan
.TheOfficeofStudentAffairsim-
• jjlemented its new postering pol­
ity last week.
'Organizations may now place 
. only three of their posters on each
• bulletin board. Additionally, post­
ers have size limits, must carry 
the sponsoring group’s name
prominently, and may not be hung 
on walls or windows.
•The It seems that no one on campus 
has noticed — a Student Senate 
rlieeting to discuss the new policy 
was met by an empty room. But 
. perhaps organizations will take
• more note of the policy when they 
receive their first fines: five dol­
lars for each poster which violates 
1 tlie rules.
To us, the new rules are like 
preventive maintenance.
Like painting the Fence, poster- 
' Trig has had its set of unwritten 
_ rules. It has been done at night at 
' .strategic campus locations to gain 
attention for activities.
Sometimes, though, problems 
‘ drose. Some organizations found 
‘ it necessary to poster at dawn, 
l.est their posters be torn down or 
covered by other posters. Other
organizations would print over a 
thousand posters, blanketing 
Baker Hall or DH2210 with a 
rainbow of 8 1/2 by 11 inch pages.
We feel that such extravagances 
are wasteful. It shouldn’t be nec­
essary to lose sleep simply to 
advertise a meeting, party, or 
fundraiser.
Likewise, poster blitzkreigs 
throw away both paper and 
money. The Activities Fee and 
fraternity dues only go so far — so 
why blow them on crates of bond 
paper?
Student Affairs’policy also aims 
squarely at a new problem — 
anonymous postering. Cowardly 
acts like the “Diversity Rally” 
posters of last semester will no 
longer be tolerated. The Univer­
sity is still committed to free 
speech, but that only occurs 
through speaking out in the open, 
not shouting from the shadows.
The new postering policy is a 
good one, for a number of reasons. 
It will keep us from wasting time, 
money, and paper to get our mes­
sages to the campus; with results 
like those, no one can argue.
Housing needs to be more efficient
OsS
bVssVe sm 
srV yUfsme
Alumni set shining example for CMU
' What should all of us learn at 
.Carnegie Mellon?
, , President Cyert, for one, makes 
'¡known what he’d like us to learn: 
how to be leaders in tomorrow’s 
"World.
' We don’t learn to be leaders, we 
.become leaders. We take respon­
sibility, create successes, and 
¦make mistakes.
We grow.
' We can also stagnate. With a 
structured curriculum, high aca­
demic demands, and limited free 
time, it becomes easy to move with 
the flow, to be reactive instead of 
i {proactive.
¦, We can become trapped by our 
.successes. Many of us are excel­
lent at reacting to our surround­
ings, and because we are doing 
well, we see no incentives to do 
..better.
>; Yet some of us manage to tran­
scend this follower mentality.
; - For example, five alumni mem­
bers of the Board ofTrustees share 
in our dream for a new University 
Center. They have pledged more 
than $3 million to Carnegie Mel­
lon, not knowing for sure wfyen 
their gifts will be used.
The uncertainty over the 
Center’s funding has not fazed 
them. They believe in the Center 
and the effect that it will have 
upon Carnegie Mellon. They be­
lieve that their gifts will inspire 
others to do the same, now that 
they have seen someone take the 
initiative and commit.
This isn’t the first time they 
have given their time, energy, and 
money to Carnegie Mellon. The 
five have served for more than 50 
collective years on the Board of 
Trustees; in addition, they’ve 
chaired numerous fundraising 
and alumni committees.
All of us have dreams—but not 
all of us are willing to go out on a 
limb to make those dreams come 
true. The efforts of William Gold­
smith, Orion L. Hoch, Stephen J. 
Jatras, Thomas McConomy, and 
Theodore D. Nierenberg take that 
extra step and may provide the 
incentive for others to do the same.
We cannot learn leadership from 
our Carnegie Mellon classes. We 
can be given the opportunity to 
experience it, and at least five 
alumni are showing a commit­
ment to giving us that chance.
Editor:
I am writing about my 
recent “adventures” 
with the HousingOffice.
I just moved into cam­
pus housing this semes­
ter (London Terrace), and I feel that the 
way Housing handled this relatively 
simple procedure was completely in­
competent.
I expect a lot of red tape any time I 
have to deal with the University (i.e. 
registration, the cashier’s office, etc.), 
but I did not expect Housing’s tape to be 
so tenuous and frustrating. When I 
moved into the apartment, I found that 
my dresser was in bad shape (that is, 
the drawers had a tendency to fall out 
when they were opened). I complained 
to housing about the problem, and after 
filing a maintenance report, I was as­
sured that a new dresser would arrive 
by the second day of classes. Well, the 
second day of classes came, and there 
was no dresser in the apartment.
After several complaints to Housing, 
a more serious problem came up—they 
had neglected to give me all the keys to 
my apartment. This meant that I had to 
make sure one ofthe locks wasn’t locked 
when I left. Well, one day that other lock 
was locked when I came home, I called 
Housing from a friend’s apartment and 
Housing assured me that if I came to 
campus, they would give me the missing 
key. I came to campus, and indeed, Main­
tenance gave me some keys—they gave 
me all the keys to London Terrace. This
meant that I had access to every apart­
ment in London Terrace, and Housing 
had access to none of them. Apparently, 
the people who work in Housing didn’t 
feel like searching through all the keys to 
find mine, so they gave me all of them. 
Loss of these keys could have caused a se­
vere security problem.
I returned to my apartment and went 
through every key on the ring, but none of 
them were for my lock. By this time, the 
Housing Office was closed and I was pretty 
upset. I returned to campus again, this 
time to call Security to see if they couldlet 
me in. Well, the officer’s advice to me was 
to return to my apartment and call from 
there. I tried to explain to the officer that 
if I could get into my apartment, I wouldn’t 
need to call him. The officer suggested 
finding a pay phone somewhere near my 
apartment and calling. He didn’t say why 
this would be better than coming to Baker 
Hall, in fact, he didn’t offer any other 
advice. Fortunately, I ran into my room­
mate, who had the only copy of the key, 
and he loaned it to me.
The next day, Housing took back its 
keys, as well as my roommate’s, and 
promised to make copies for me and once 
again promised a new dresser. One week 
later (three weeks into the semester), I 
walked keyless and “drawerless” to 
Housing to place another request for a 
dresser and to check on the status of my 
keys. Maintenance insisted that I had 
picked up the keys “about a week ago” 
and Mr. Tony Martin promised me a new 
dresser by “11 am tomorrow morning.” I
went to the Maintenance office to insist 
that I had not picked up the keys — 
Maintenance then produced two copies 
of the key.
That dresser that was promised by “11 
am tomorrow morning” never came. I 
suppose that having my clean clothes in 
a heap on the floor is part of that “high 
quality of life” that Housing strives to 
offer!
Other residents in the building have 
related similar experiences: receiving 
bills from CMU for repairs made in their 
apartments by Housing, missing keys, 
and letters from utility companies that 
threatened termination of heat in the 
apartment if their bills were not paid. 
Also, London Terrace has no vacuum 
cleaners, there are no signs that say 
which RA is on duty, there are no “little 
slips of colored paper” shoved under our 
doors to inform us of upcoming events.
Incompetence explains a lot in this 
nation, and in the University, as well. 1 
am interested in knowing why I was 
treated so poorly and if the Housing 
Office is apathetic to all of the needs of 
their residents, or just the off-campus 
ones. Friedrich Nietzsche says in Thus 
Spoke Zarathustra, “Blessed are the 
sleepy ones, for they shall soon drop off.’’ 
It is my hope that this happens soon is 
the Housing Office—perhaps some new, 
ambitious people will serve the campus 
better.
David Homan 
Sophomore, MathematicsArt display was in an unsuitable place
bVssVe sm srV yUfsme
h'y h*Ph*t
Editor-in-Chief............................Howdy Pierce
Managing Editor................Michael T. Rose
Business Manager....................Frank DiVito
News Editor....................Michael J. Ewedosh
Asst. News Editors ..................Farron W. Levy
Don Pickett
Forum Editor................................Susan Abrams
Asst. Forum Editor..............Nathan Fullerton
Sports Editor........................Katie Culbertson
Asst. Sports Editors...........Jason McDonald
Features Editor...............................Kevin Barney
Asst. Features Editors.........Eric McAnallen
Dexter T. Kobayashi
Diversions Editor....................Stephen Glicker
Asst. Diversions Editors ...Dawn Brosonski 
Terri Kasch
Calendar Editor............................William Burky
Magazine Editor..................Jennifer Kerstein
Asst. Magazine Editor..........................Julie Liu
Dossier Literary Editor......Christopher Kush
Dossier Design Editor..............Soo-Tsu Leng
Art Editor..............................William C. Sabram
Asst. Art Editor...........................Kristina Boinis
Photo Editor............................Thomas Nichols
Asst. Photo Editor.............Ignatius Sasmita
Darkroom Manager..............Tad Dockstader
Production Manager...................Pauletta Pan
Copy Manager.......................Natalie Peterson
Contributing Editors:
Karl S. Barnhart Grant Carmichael 
James B. Endres Carlos H. Franco 
Dustin Frazier Stewart J. Levine 
Jonathan Levy Joey Lynn Monaco 
Josh D. Ruben Russ Seligman 
Karyn Silva
Carnegie Mellon University's student newspaper since 1906
The Tartan is tho student newspaper ol Carnogle Mellon Univer­
sity. It is a weekly newspaper published by students during the latl 
and spring semesters, at no cost to members of tho University 
community. It is printed by Western Pennsylvania Printing,Inc. 
Subscriptions are available lor the semester or academicyear. The 
Editorials appearing at the beginning olthe opinion section are the 
ollicial opinion ol The Tartan editorial board. Columns are the 
opinions ol individual authors. Letters to tho Editor are opinions 
ol authors who are usually, but not necessarily members ol the 
University community. A letter intended lor publication must be 
signed and include the writer’s address and phone number lor 
verification. Names will be withheld upon request. The Tartan re- 
. serves the right to condense or reject any letter or column. Copy­
right © 1990 by The Tartan. The Tartan editorial board reserves 
the right to withhold Irompublication any copy it deems unlit for pub­
lication.
Office: Skibo 50 (412) 268-2111 
Mailing address: The Tartan / Box 17 /
Carnegie Mellon University /
Pittsburgh, PA 15213-3890 
Funded by the Activities Fee.
All rights reserved.
Library of Congress ISSN #: 0890-3107.
Editor:
I wish to take excep­
tion to one of your 
front-page articles last 
week [“Censorship 
and the Arts: Who 
draws the line?,” 1/30].
In answer to your question “... Who 
draws the line?”, let me say that I have 
no desire to censor the arts. However, I 
draw the line at being unwillingly “used” 
in an art exhibition.
The doorway mentioned in your ar­
ticle, leading into the B-300 corridor of 
Doherty Hall, is directly between my 
office and the MEMS storeroom, where 
I must pick up materials directly re­
lated to my position as secretary in the 
MEMS department. The doorframe was 
covered above and on both sides with 
magazine pages showing women mastur­
bating and engaging in other sexual ac­
tivities.
In the performance of my duties, I had 
to walk through Ms. Mayumi’s exhibit, 
and therefore, even if only momentarily, 
became part of that exhibit. Ms. Mayumi 
does not have the right to draw me, un­
willingly, into her pornographic display. 
A trip to the Federal Building in Pitts­
burgh will verify that this constitutes 
sexual harassment.
The instructors and administrators who 
misled Ms. Mayumi into believing that
she had the freedom to express herself in 
a manner that violated my right to pur­
sue my work without sexual harassment 
are the ones who should be censored, not 
the police officer who removed the ex­
hibit from a public entrance. The Art1 
department has areas where it can dis­
play its exhibits, which can accommo­
date visitors and critics, without making 
other people involuntary viewers. This 
particular display was placed inappro­
priately in an area which gave others no 
choice in whether they wished to view 
this art or not.
Betty Jane Cline 
Secretary, MEMS
Reviewer did not perform his duties well
Editor:
As a writer, actor, 
and general theatre 
fan, I was shocked at 
the content of A.S. 
Goldman’s critique of
bVssVe sm 
srV yUfsme
the Pittsburgh Playhouse’s “A Walk In 
the Woods” last week [“A Walk in the 
Woods is no stroll in the park,” 1/30].
I do not wish to take up space rebut­
ting Mr. Goldman’s opinion. Although I 
am familiar with the play, I have not yet 
seen the Playhouse’s production. Nor do 
I wish to criticize Goldman’s writing. 
Such letters to the editor are trite at 
best, written by people who would rather 
sit back and criticize instead of trying to 
write articles themselves. Besides, I feel 
that anyone who gets printed must have 
something on the ball — call me an 
idealist.
I find Mr. Goldman’s article to be ex­
tremely self-indulgent, and elitist. His 
is a college audience, one which is famil­
iar with the theatre and which knows
how to distinguish a theatre review in a 
newspaper. However, Mr. Goldman in­
sists on explaining who he is and even 
makes fun of his assignment.
People do not care what the reviewer 
thinks about his assignments, at least 
not in what is presumed to be a theatre 
review. Mr. Goldman’s observations about 
the theatre critic’s job may be more suited 
to a feature article on the subject. People 
reading a theatre review want to know 
about the production in question, not the 
reviewer.
A theatre reviewer gains respect from 
an audience by demonstrating that he or 
she knows what he or she is talking 
about. Setting one’s self up as “the power­
ful critic” is not the way to go. Mr. Goldman 
spends as much time talking about him­
self as he does about the play. Instead of 
gaining respect, Mr. Goldman clearly 
alienates (and perhaps even insults) his 
audience.
Furthermore, Mr. Goldman says that 
“he must humble [himself] to reporting
on the set and lighting.” For one thing, 
any critic that does not discuss these 
features of the production is not doing 
his job. But more importantly, the set de­
signer, Dick Block; lighting designer 
Cindy Lumaro; and even the director, 
Lee Sankowich; are all CMU Drama fac­
ulty. I am not saying that this should 
have influenced Mr. Goldman’s opinion, 
but he should have made some mention 
of these facts in the article. Any time s 
CMU student, instructor, or alumni is 
featured in a Tartan article, his or her af­
filiation with the school is mentioned for 
audience reasons if for no other. If the 
reader had known that Mr. Goldman 
was reviewing CMU faculty members’ 
work, his comments may have had more 
weight and the article would have had 
held even greater interest.
Because of my interest in the theatre,
I enjoy reading reviews from differentr 
people. I am able to recognize the “I may 
not know much about art, but I know 
continued on page 8

---------------------------------------------------

The Tartan • Carnegie Mellon • 6 February 1990
TNc Tm8alVifan / 
,s8UVas 5VCVimI4Vas 
TVasVe
268-2922
E1idSfa h8smefan
268-2922
Twth*Th GfsslM8enr
782-4023
,s8UVas 'V1isr ,VeCfpV
268-2157
B*TT'c,
268-7070
5e8n TmaaVpsfma
854-0700
Don’t let others tell 
you what is right
HlMb H51lVo5V
For my first column, I de­
cided to beat on only one group 
of people. Mostly, they are 
rather ignorant to the chang­
ing world. These people are 
those who support censorship.
I suppose my first encounter 
with these small-minded people 
was when the Dead Kennedys 
were sued by the PMRC 
(Parent’s Music Resource Cen­
ter). The PMRC is a group of 
(mostly) senators’ wives, (led 
by Tipper Gore) who have noth­
ing better to do than tell people 
what to do. They even self-ap­
pointed themselves to the posi­
tion of “mother” in the way of 
regulating what every person 
in the country may listen to or 
read.
What makes them danger­
ous, however, is the fact that 
people have recognized them 
as an actual law-making body 
(as they are married to sena­
tors). With the threat of a law 
being passed which restricts 
music or the arts, most compa­
nies have opted to go with 
simple compliance.
Well, with the DKs, ol’ Tipper 
received a letter from a parent 
who was upset over the poster 
included in the group’s Frank - 
enchrist album. The poster was 
a reproduction of a work by 
Giger (Alien’s special effects 
genius) that pictured various 
sexual acts in an effort to de­
nounce promiscuity. The 
mother’s 12-year-old son re­
ceived the album from his sis­
ter for Christmas. The album, 
by the way, did have a warning 
sticker on the shrink-wrap.
So, mom sees poster, mom 
calls police, mom calls Tipper, 
Tipper calls the record store 
that sold it, the store pulls the 
album, as do other stores across 
the country. Tipper then helps 
mom file a lawsuit — “Contrib­
uting to the delinquency of 
minors.” The DKs go into debt 
trying to fight it, and Jello 
Biafra (their lead singer) takes 
the rap for the group.
This all happened because a 
parent couldn’t, or didn’t want 
to, take care of her own chil­
dren like a parent should. Now 
we have to live without the DKs 
and many other groups that 
the DKs helped fund. Ok, so 
you don’t like the DKs. But it 
should concern you that these
people are so blind that they 
accused John Denver of promot­
ing marijuana use in his song 
“Rocky Mountain High.” They 
also accused “Puff the Magic 
Dragon” of doing the same thing. 
Maybe soon they’ll get to a group 
you like.
After this attack on music, I 
didn’t hear about the PMRC for 
a little while. Then, during the 
summer, it exploded again. I 
was working in Harborside’, 
N.J., and reading the New York 
Times when I came across an 
article about Senate action 
against “pornographic” artwork. 
Reading further, I found out that 
Senator Jesse Helms started it. 
Now, that clicked. Helms’ wife 
is in the PMRC. I can imagine 
the conversation that resulted 
in this action:
Mrs. Helms: “I’m bored, 
honey, the PMRC is running 
out of people to bother.”
Mr.: “Well, snookums, here’s 
a book on art exhibits.”
Mrs.: “Thank you Daddy.” 
(she flips through) “OH MY!” 
Mr.: What is it Mommy?” 
Mrs.: “A man is making fun of 
my Christianity! A cross in 
urine!”
Mr.: “OH MY!”
Mrs.: “I want you to do some­
thing about this. Start some­
thing in the Senate to rid us of 
this free speech. Then the PMftC 
can step in and help.”
Mr.: “Right away, Mother.” 
So then it issued forth. The 
Senate took it and ran. Luckily 
they tripped over the First 
Amendment. But it was a close 
call. In some ways, it is still 
going on, too. We have to act 
before it happens again. We 
might not get lucky a third time.
I believe in freedom of expres­
sion. I think people should be 
allowed to burn the flag. I 
wouldn’t burn it, but I like 
having a choice. That’s what 
this is about: being able to have 
the choice to express yourself. I 
don’t want to be huddled in a 
tiny square and have troops 
move in to kill me. And I don't 
want the PMRC or anyone el'se 
to tell me how to raise my kids.
It’s my life. I can decide if 
something is harmful to me or 
not. If it is offensive, say so arid 
leave. Don’t support it. But don’t 
tell other people they can’t do it. 
I’m reminded of Styx’s Kilrqy 
Was Here. We can lose our free­
dom if we let others take it away.
Rich Robinson is a sophomdre 
IM major. This is his first col­
umn for The Tartan.
Hours: Monday through Friday, 8:30am-5:00pm
For after hours emergencies when the office is closed, call the center.
An answering service operator will reach a counselor on call.
Calculus, Physics, Chemistry, Biology, Writing, Computing 
Sunday - Thursday 8:00 - 11:00 pm (see Tartan ad)
24-hour telephone counseling, crisis intervention, and 
supportive listening.
Hours: Mon, Tue, Thu, Fri— 8:30 am-5:00 pm 
Wed—9:30 am-6:30 pm 
For after hours emergencies, call Campus Police (x2323) 
for transport to hospital.
Student organization which promotes substance abuse prevention.
Meetings are held on Mondays, 6:00-7:30 pm
Room 121, Margaret Morrison, and are open to all students
An Alcohol/Drug crisis hotline, 5:00-9:00 pm
Counseling and Student Development Center, a Division of Student Affairs 
fa
The slang epidemic is spreading quickly
—-
ICofV k1nfco
I had never really heard anyone 
use the term “pop” so noncha­
lantly and innocently until I came 
to Pittsburgh. I had never known 
anyone in Northeastern Pennsyl­
vania to call the dear carbonated 
water with caramel coloring any­
thing but “soda.” That is, until 
the girl in front of me at 
McDonald’s asked for an orange 
pop.
I stood there with my mouth 
hanging open and pinched myself 
to make sure I wasn’t dreaming. 
Yes, that girl, who happened to go 
to my high school, had actually 
said “pop!”
I couldn’t believe it. What had 
happened to the nice, plain old 
term we always used to use? Was 
“soda” now obsolete?
That wasn’t the only word that 
had changed. Young people eve- 
. rywhere were now speaking to
me in a foreign language.
When I went to visit one of my 
friends, her younger brother 
asked me to nuke a hot dog for 
him. There I was, thinking about 
what he just said, wondering why 
it appealed to him to blow up his 
favorite food. The vision I had 
was too horrible to relate, so I 
could only ask him what kind of 
enjoyment he might get from 
doing that.
“So I can eat it, maybe,” he 
answered.
“And it has to be nuked in order 
for you to be able to eat it?” I 
asked.
“Well, I don’t think it would be 
a good idea to eat it raw.”
“No, I don’t think so, either. 
Why don’t we just put it in the 
microwave, Ok?”
“But that’s whatnuking means. 
Come on, hurry up. I’m hungry.” 
And so I learned yet another 
new term.
I went to my local mall to see 
what new stores might have 
popped up, and to my disappoint­
ment, there were none. The only
new thing at the mall was more of 
this mysterious dialect. One con­
versation I witnessed sounded 
something like this:
Guy 1: Man, put on the radar. I 
hear there’s a lot of incredible 
foxes walking around tonight.
Guy 2: You mean like that boda­
cious Betty over there?
Guy 1: Hey, fresh, man. She’s 
phenomenal!
Guy 2: I just hope she’s not a 
fluff chick.
Guy 1: Veg out, home boy. The 
only thing we don’t want is a 
wench.
Guy 2: Or a cow.
Guy 1: Hey, think that jockette 
over there is bustin’ out?
Guy 2: She’s funky, man. I’m 
intense.
Guy 1: Too bad she’s the only 
hot babe here. Everyone else is a 
real space cadet, like that dweeb. 
It’s starting to get ugly.
Guy 2: Ok, then let’s blow this 
hot dog stand and get mutilated 
on your brother’s booze.
Guy 1: Yeah, that’ll be the ulti­
mate. C’mon, let’s order a ’Za and
then we can jam.
I was eager to return to school 
where everyone was “normal,” and 
no longer would I have to try to 
figure out what people were say­
ing to me. But to my dismay, the 
new lingo had apparently reached 
the mind of one of my roommates. 
Suddenly, everything was excel­
lent:
“What an excellent idea.”
“This is going to be sooo excel­
lent!”
“They make this really excel­
lent food...”
“We’re going to have an excel­
lent time!”
“Wow, that’s an excellent dress!” 
And on and on and on.
I guess there’s no way to avoid 
it any longer, and that I’ll just 
have to go with the flow. Now, 
how do I feel about that?
Yo dudes, I think it’s an awe­
some killer.
Susan Abrams is a freshman 
professional writing major. She 
enjoys using sign language so that 
no one can understand her, either.
Cutback on U.S. troops is a positive sign
President Bush made an excel­
lent decision during the State of 
the Union address (to the sur­
prise of hard-liners in the East 
Bloc and liberals in the U.S.) in 
which he advocated sizeable troop 
cuts in Europe. Secretary of De­
fense Richard Cheney and others 
in the Bush administration have 
supported this decision. However, 
as Secretary of Defense Cheney 
stated, it should be done intelli­
gently, not haphazardly. It is good 
r to see the Bush administration 
press for troop cutbacks.
With incredible changes and
wfUlu IMb4fnaF
reforms proliferating across East­
ern Europe and throughout the 
Soviet Union, I believe that Bush’s 
plan to reduce troop forces in 
Europe, along with the plan to 
phase out several military bases, 
such as Greenham Common Air 
Base in England, are very posi­
tive measures. Along with these 
plans, the U.S. military is shut-
ting down a number of U.S. bases, 
such as Fort Ord, which, Cheney 
stated, would lead to a $39 billion 
dollar cut in the defense budget. 
All these measures are very strong 
and positive, and should have 
positive ramifications, thus help­
ing stimulate even more change 
in Eastern Europe.
Unfortunately, it seems that 
many left-wing individuals and 
organizations believe that Bush’s 
proposal for troop cutbacks do not 
go far enough. The left claims 
that our military establishment 
should be drastically cut back.
But, as usual, the left is totally 
oblivious to the fact that there 
still remains an extremely strong 
Soviet military establishment 
which continues to support, 
through organizations such as the 
KGB, GRU, and Spetznaz, other 
terrorist organizations, terrorist 
acts throughout the world despite 
the existing reform movements.
The Soviet Union continues to 
maintain its 365-million-dollar- 
a-year support of Cuba, which in 
turn provides funds and military 
hardware, of Soviet design, to the 
continued on page 8
U.S. interference in Panama unacceptable
¦ Editor:
We, the 
undersigned
faculty, stu- bVssVe sm
;S"troSythe Editorcondemn the United States’ in-
- vasion of Panama. This action 
violated Article 2 of the United 
Nations Charter which explicitly 
prohibits “the use of force against 
the territorial integrity or politi­
cal independence of any state.” 
The charter of the Organization 
of American States also prohibits 
such intervention. Even the Pan­
ama Canal Treaties, which Presi­
dent Bush has used to justify the 
invasion, prohibit any interven­
tion into the domestic affairs of 
Panama.
This military action is not only 
illegal, but it also establishes a
dangerous precedent, encourag­
ing the U.S. to use force rather 
than reason or -diplomacy in 
Central America and throughout 
the world.
Although the U.S. government 
has wholeheartedly supported 
President Gorbachev in his re­
cent non-interventionist policies 
concerning the reforms in East­
ern Europe, it has refused to adopt 
similar policies towards Central 
America. This invasion demon­
strates that the Bush Admini­
stration still believes in gunboat 
diplomacy.
The repressive nature of 
Noriega’s political leadership in 
Panama does not justify unilat­
eral action to invade a sovereign 
state. Democracy cannot be im­
posed on another nation (witness 
Vietnam or El Salvador); respect
for the rule of law is the best 
support that can be given to as­
piring democrats throughout the 
world. Using tricks common to 
anti-democratic governments 
which need to manufacture popu­
lar support, the US government 
has produced a flood of propa­
ganda against the deposed leader. 
Invokingphrases such as “the ter­
rible nightmare of Noriega’s to­
talitarian regime” and inventing 
stockpiles of cocaine in his office 
(later found to be commeal for 
tamales) subvert the democratic 
process in the U.S.
We join the United States 
government and the world in 
condemning Noriega’s oppressive 
regime, but will not accept the 
use of illegal force nor the impli­
cation that the U.S. is the world’s 
police force. Whether we measure
the damage of this invasion in 
conventional terms — dozens of 
American and hundreds of Pana­
manian lives lost, and hundreds 
of millions of dollars worth of 
property destroyed — or in terms 
ofthe further loss of U.S. prestige 
and influence, the cost is far too 
high.
Rollie Wesen 
John Hinshaw 
Nick Kushmerick 
John Borrazzo 
Peter Shell 
Dan Kahn 
Ravi Kannan 
Ernie Alieva 
Daniele Wilmouth 
Dave Demarest 
Kathy Swedlow 
David Gross 
Elizabeth Fruehan
Walk - in Tutoring
Iafna 
Smart !!
Sunday through Thursday
Qnly
Intro to ComputingWeH5409
CalculusWeH5403
PhysicsWeH5427
ChemistryWeH5427
BiologyWeH5427
. Wednesday
Academic WritingWeH5205
The Right Place To Turn
Sponsored by Counseling and Student Development Center, Division of Student Affairs

---------------------------------------------------

8'The Tartan • Carnegie Mellon • 6 February 1990
Art must comply with behavior ‘laws’
! Over the past few weeks, there 
has-been a considerable amount 
6f discussion on censorship and 
the arts. Most of the controversy 
centers around two issues: cer- 
&riiï performance art pieces that 
¿aye taken place on campus and 
Senator Jesse Helms’ attempt to 
introduce legislation to prevent 
the1* government funding of “ob­
scene” art (most commonly, the 
photographs of Robert Mapple­
thorpe).
Debate on these subjects is con­
structive, but every argument I 
liavë read has ignored certain 
baôîc facts of each case. Thus the 
discussion presents a distorted 
view'of these issues, and makes it 
difficult for rational argument to 
tjake place.
;; The first issue is the interfer­
ence of administration in perform­
ance art pieces, most recently 
fylatsuo Mayumi’s, when a CMU 
Security officer removed pictures 
fliat had been cut from porno­
graphic magazines. Those argu­
ing against this interference claim 
that it is censorship. They seem 
tp feel that because a set of ac­
tions is labeled as “art,” it is ex­
empt from local and University 
laws: This is not true, and has 
nothing to do with censorship.
T^he Constitution does not ex­
empt “art” from the law; it merely 
makès it illegal to enact the laws
Re T5fnom 
NlMbfmg wn5Ca
that specifically prohibit freedom 
of speech. But there are limits to 
all freedoms (freedom of speech 
does not allow you to shout “fire!” 
in a crowded movie theater), and 
laws democratically chosen by the 
citizens seem like a good place to 
set these limits. If there is a uni­
versity or local law against the 
public display of pornography, 
then the University has a duty to 
enforce that law. Art is not privi­
leged.
Say, for example, that I wanted 
to do a performance art piece to 
dramatize animal abuse. For this 
piece I was planning on sealing 
four kittens in an airtight glass 
box and filming their suffocation 
and the reactions of an audience 
to that suffocation.
Should I be allowed to do this? 
Of course not. Local laws prohibit 
it, and for good reason. The status 
of the performance as “art,” has 
nothing to do with its social ac­
ceptability; it must conform to 
local laws of conduct. Thus, if 
Mayumi wishes to dramatize por­
nography, she either has to find a 
method of doing so that is permit­
ted by local laws, or risk prosecu­
At last, Beaux Arts 
brings excitement
tV9ClnlV' NlVuo
Iam4fna 8mUlVm
• The hype finally stops on Sat­
urday.
• The Beaux Arts Ball will finally 
happen. CFA will be transformed 
from being one of the few civi- 
lized-looking campus buildings 
into either a war zone or a scene 
out of Mardi Gras, depending on 
tp whom you talk.
; The organizers are calling this 
year’s Ball “Risorgimento,” a title 
tjiat conjures up visions of pasta 
itiore than anything else. Surpris­
ingly, pasta makes for an apt 
metaphor for the Ball.
• This year’s Beaux Arts sounds 
like it will be a lot of loose noodles 
thrown together in a bowl with a 
sprinkling of oregano and basil. 
There will be bands everywhere, 
decorations everywhere, food 
ei very where, and every once in 
awhile, a few partygoers amidst 
them.
On second thought, the Ball isn’t 
a( p.asta dish, but, if youfIl pardon 
the’expression, more like a stew.
! ihe organizers have thrown 
together as many elements as they 
could afford. It’s like when you 
have a paper to write and you 
don’t know what to write, but you 
knpw the paper needs a certain 
lfeijgth and you decide to write 
everything you know that is 
remotely related to the subject.
The chaos is not necessarily 
such a bad thing. Who wants to go 
to & party, especially an all-night 
party, which is over-organized? 
fiowever, at times it seems that 
the Ball organizers are attempt­
ing to cram all of Spring Carnival 
into one night. Considering how 
much my head hurt the day after 
.Carnival, I hate to imagine what 
jt will feel like after the Ball.
;• “Risorgimento” actually trans-
Reviewer’s approach 
is inappropriate to 
intended audience
tion (a noble traditon that many 
artists have followed without 
screeching the word “censorship”).
The case of Jesse Helms’ at­
tempted legislation is slightly dif­
ferent. While being labeled as cen­
sorship by the press, the bill is 
nothing of the sort. It simply af­
firms the rights of the American 
people, as represented by their 
elected officials, to not have to 
pay for something they find offen­
sive. Mapplethorpe can continue 
to create his art. He is not being 
censored — the new law simply 
does not fund him any more. If his 
art is good enough, he will be able 
to get funding elsewhere.
Helms, a kind of idiot savant, 
since he does not seem to realize 
the real issue he has opened up, 
but insists on babbling about 
“decency” and other nebulous and 
unresolvable rhetorical questions, 
has brought up the important idea 
that in a democracy, the people 
have a right to decide what they 
will pay for. If the majority of the 
elected representatives of the 
people find an artwork to be of­
fensive, it is within their rights to 
withdraw funding.
This brings up the entire con­
cept of government funding for 
the arts, which is where the real 
debate should be. Should this be 
going on? Do we want govern­
ment support of art that the aver­
contlnued from page 6
'.what I like,” philosophy, com- 
'mon to many reviewers. In con­
trast, Mr. Goldman appears to 
¦ know his stuff. Unfortunately, he 
; relies too heavily on (pseudo)-in- 
vtellectual analysis and a rather 
J ostentatious vocabulary rather 
; than upon a theatre goer’s reper­
toire. One should learn something
age taxpayer may not understand, 
appreciate, or even get to see? Is 
this a proper use of our tax dol­
lars in an era of strapped budgets 
and burgeoning debt? From the 
artistic communities standpoint, 
should art funding at a national 
level be permissible? Does it de­
prive the artist of independence 
and allow politicians to control 
the arts?
The current system has now 
been shown to be suspect, as 
funding without accountability to 
the taxpayer is irresponsible, 
while a system of funding from 
political patronage requiring 
adherence to ridiculous “decency” 
standards should be unpalatable 
to the artistic community.
This debate on both the legality 
and the fundability of artworks 
that the community does not want 
to support should be a signal to 
artists to question their own in­
tentions and behavior. Freedom 
of expression is not a carte blanche 
to behave however one pleases; 
with freedom comes responsibil­
ity. The current issues should mo­
tivate artists and the rest of us to 
determine what their responsi­
bilities in our society are and 
should be.
Michael Drout is a senior Eng­
lish major. 60 Coarse is a grade of 
sandpaper.
HERBLOCK S CARTOON
lates into “awakening”or “renais­
sance.” Awakening is an apt name 
for a party which is supposed to 
last all night. But what actually 
is awakening? Our ability to ac­
tually throw a good party? Our 
willingness to dress up in cos­
tumes on nights other than Hal­
loween?
Actually, I’m very happy to see 
the Beaux Arts Ball happen. Last 
year’s on-again/off-again, in CFA/ 
at Metropol, wet/dry, CFA-only/ 
campus-wide affair had nothing 
going for it except a really cool- 
looking poster.
Last year’s theme was “Ex­
tremes” but it seemed more like 
“Problems. ” We never knew where 
the Ball would be, when it would 
be, or who would be at it. All we 
did know was that it was good to 
provide one front-page story a 
week for a good part of the winter.
“Extremes” was doomed to fail­
ure from the start and it’s nice to 
see “Risorgimento” avoiding some 
of the pitfalls the previous Ball 
fell into. No one this year is say­
ing, “Dick, keep your hands off 
our ball. ” That protest poster alone 
must have cost “Extremes” its 
chance to stay on campus.
All of that, however, is water 
under the bridge. Preparations 
for “Risorgimento” are happen­
ing and will continue until the 
weekend. Nothing but an act of 
God or over-zealous group of LCB 
agents with the authority to bust 
college students for not drinking 
at a party is going to stop this 
Ball.
And so, the hype should con­
tinue to flow for the next few days. 
After all, if it weren’t for the Ball, 
we’d still be talking about Bud 
Bowl II.
Stewart Levine is a second year 
master’s student in GSIA. He 
wants to know who gets to keep the 
decorations from the Ball once the 
party’s over.
IT’S KIKPOFA SPECIAL 60VERNMENT THIM6 ¦ 
NO-FAULT CRIME"
Distributed by CREA TORS S YNDICA TE, INC.5777 West Century Blvd., Suite 700, Los Angeles, CA 90045
Peace initiatives should be 
dependant upon cooperation 
from other governments
from a theatre review about the 
production, actors, play itself, or 
even the theatre in general.
Mr. Goldman could be a fine 
reviewer, but he must learn that 
the subject of a theatre review is 
the theatre, not the reviewer.
Josh Ruben
Senior, Professional Writing
continued from page 7
Sandinista regime in Nicaragua, 
the murderous FMLN in El Sal­
vador, and other groups such as 
the Ml 9 and Shining Path, in 
Colombia. This is not to mention 
to the fact that Fidel Castro, 
Daniel Ortega and members of 
the Ml 9 and Shining Path terror­
ist groups are involved in drug 
trafficking. The funds derived 
from their drug deals are, in turn, 
used to maintain their oppressive 
governments (i.e. Nicaragua) and, 
in other instances, are used to 
continue terrorist acts (i.e. FMLN, 
Shining Path, M19). Yet the point 
remains: the Soviet military and 
Soviet Intelligence are unequivo­
cally a threat and must be 
checked.
Fortunately, Gorbachev and 
other reform-minded individuals 
within the Soviet Union, and even 
freedom seeking peoples in Bul­
garia, Rumania and East Ger­
many are demanding an end to
HERBLOCK’S CARTOON
"AH, PUT TH SLICE? IT PIFFERENTLY EAMR IME*
Distributed by CREA TORS S YNDICA TE, INC.
5777 West Century Blvd.. Suite 700. Los Angeles. CA 90045
Do you suffer from 
kiddophobia?
kna 0CMb4fgu
secret police groups and other 
organizations of surreptitious 
nature, bent on the subjugation 
and suppression of freedom move­
ments. Thus, the United States, 
under President Bush’s lead, has 
started to move ahead by intro­
ducing troop and military base 
cutbacks. These are excellent 
decisions, but as Secretary Ch­
eney stated, it should be done 
intelligently. There is still a clear 
and present danger.
Until Soviet aggression, and 
that of its proxie governments 
and their respective military es­
tablishments in Central Amer­
ica, Africa, and Asia ceases, the 
United States should not press 
strongly for further peace initia­
tives. Then, and only then, should 
we go “full steam” ahead. Until 
then, we should go slowly and 
cautiously.
David Schwartz is a freshman 
economics major.
“Good morning, everyone. Wel­
come to TV’s‘Fighting With Phil.’ 
Today our topic of conversation is 
parents who are afraid of their 
children. We have here with us 
Horace Plankton, Stanley Pluto, 
Andrea Peaches, and Sally Pe­
ters, all of whom suffer from kiddo­
phobia — the fear that their off­
spring will not love them.
“Horace, when did you first 
realize that you were afraid of 
your children?”
“When my son was four years 
old and I told him not to climb up 
on a ladder. He kept doing it and 
I screamed at him. His face turned 
red and he burst into tears. At 
that moment I said to myself, ‘My 
god, what have I done?’ I’ve been 
afraid of him ever since.”
“What about you, Mr. Pluto?” 
“I have always had this secret 
fear that if I do anything to disci­
pline my daughter, she will reject 
me as a loving parent.”
“And this causes you great 
anxiety?”
“Yes. If I ever thought that she 
was withholding her love from 
me, I wouldn’t be able to sleep at 
night.”
“Andrea Peaches of Great Neck, 
Long Island, has three sons and 
has been afraid of all of them 
since they were bom. What seems 
to be the problem?”
“Well, Phil, I don’t like to see 
kids sob — I never have. The 
minute one of my sons chokes up, 
I am certain that I have done 
something wrong.”
“How old are they?” 
“Thirty-four, 35, and 37. The 
one I worry about the most is my 
37-year-old. When he was young 
he used to hide under the stairs 
and refuse to come out. It fright­
ened me so much that I lowered 
milk and graham crackers to him 
so that he didn’t think I was a 
terrible mother. He still looks hurt 
when he sees me.”
“Stanley Pluto. What makes you
fearful?”
“My son, Alan, is very sensitive 
and has a terrible temper. He 
wouldn’t talk to us when we asked i 
him to eat his oatmeal. His mother 
and I didn’t press him because we 
were afraid that our relationship 
would never be the same.”
“Sally Peters. Over the years; 
you have suffered from your fear 
of children. Can you tell us what 
it all means?”
“My father was afraid of me: 
when I was young. If he wouldn’t' 
let me watch television, I threat­
ened to tie myself to the water 
heater. Naturally, I felt as if I had; 
a lot of power. When my kids 
started growing up, I realized that 
they were pulling the same tricks 
on me as I had played on my 
father. I told them I wasn’t buy­
ing it, so they began doing worse 
things like putting the baby in a 
shopping cart and running 
through the middle of the park­
ing lot.”
“Is your husband afraid of your 
children?”
“He’s afraid of the boy — I am 
afraid of the girls.”
“We will now take some tele­
phone calls. Yes, Peoria.”
“I’d like to question Mr. Pluto. 
My kid is six and I think he knows 
I’m frightened of him because 
every time I tell him not to hit his 
brother, he does it anyhow. Is 
there some way of controlling this 
behavior without my son think­
ing that I don’t love him?’
“It’s very hard to convince a six- 
year-old that you care for him 
after you have yelled ‘no’ at him 
several times, the first words a 
child learns to say are, You don’t 
love me.’ Most parents will cover 
their ears rather than hear their 
offspring say that.”
“My question is to Mr. Plank­
ton. Is it possible to be a good 
parent and not worry about 
whether your children love you or 
not?”
“In some countries, it’s possible 
— but not in America.”
Art Buchwald is a syndicated 
columnist for the Los Angeles, 
Times.
Parking • University (Jenter • Greeks • student Involvmeni • Steve s Hex LiTe 
Athletic Facilities • Women's Center • Enrollment • Student Health • Politics FundMMKevin's Clumsiness • Student Affairs • True Confessions • Constructs » • Dinin
Volume ° Bill's Hair • Funding • Student Affairs • Construction • Overcrowding 
Rats in the Dorms • Sororities • Charities • Dining Service • Environment • Hostage
Letters to the Editor • Deadline Friday 5 pm 
Skibo 50

---------------------------------------------------

The Tartan • Carnegie Mellon • 6 February 1990
¦TEN DOLLARS IN CASH
Val «MtncsT i<asurcf
XHWOiP
OPEN FORUMEducation needs ™*i««i»«« Higher Education inthe 1990s Learning should be fun
to focus on reason
When was the last time you 
argued for a particular side of 
an issue even though you didn’t 
really understand it? Have you 
ever done a wrong and justified 
it to yourself, only to admit later 
why you really did it? Do you 
ever wonder if the biased and 
insufficient information you re­
ceive is enough to justify your 
opinions?
I am guilty on all three counts. 
We do the best we can with the 
environment we have to work 
with. There is one institution, 
that of higher learning, which 
has made the best in humanity 
both its source of energy, and its 
goal. How does higher educa­
tion wade through the many 
biases, opinions, and contradic­
tory viewpoints to arrive at 
truths?
I propose that many of the fin­
est of our people have pursued 
their causes, not in search of 
truth, but for reasons of self- 
interest. Further, perhaps even 
more have denounced ideas con­
trary to their own, not for just 
reasons, but out of fear, arro­
gance, and contempt. At first 
sight, this appraisal seems quite 
unjustified. Surely higher edu­
cation has overcome these 
forces.
But this institution is com­
prised of human beings. You 
and I. And we are susceptible to 
these weaknesses. Higher edu­
cation has, to some extent, over­
come these forces. It has done so 
because, in many cases, the 
average of opinions has brought 
out the most self-consistent
ideas. The balance of people fight­
ing for their causes, rather than 
the result of their causes, has 
lead us to our present situation.
Are we ready for a new day? 
Science has taken a step. It has 
adopted reason as its judge. To 
some extent scientific pursuits are 
motivated by reason. But other 
questions of politics, morality, and 
war, to name only a few, are much 
harder to pose and judge with 
reason. Our undesirable aspects 
and weaknesses hide in the con­
fusion which surrounds these 
issues. How does one overcome 
such a subtle monster?
How do you feel about abortion? 
If I said I supported a given side of 
the issue, would you see my words 
in a different light? It is very 
difficult not to. If you are human 
like me, you would probably make 
the preceding words fit your side 
of the issue. It is much easier to 
form a belief and stick to it, than 
to honestly subject to argument. 
It is a very hard question, which 
makes it easier to make an iffy 
assumption at the start, and then 
to continue with logic. The per- 
s ons most confident in their views 
are rarely much more than just 
that. It is most healthy to con­
tinually question and subject one’ 
s views to severe disbelief. If you 
are an intelligent person strong 
in your views, you should take 
this not as an insult, but as a 
challenge. In what does the 
strength he?
Higher education in science has 
brought us a phenomenal power 
over our world. We have the po­
tential to destroy it. The use of
reason has given science a tre­
mendous fuel to reach its goal. 
We must pursue the more confus­
ing goals in national policy, envi­
ronmental concern, morality, and 
even our daily lives, with the tre­
mendous tool of reason. If we don’t, 
the imbalance with science will 
destroy us. Is this goal possible? 
Can we consider these topics as 
reasonable people?
I believe this task requires a 
candidness of which we are now 
capable. It should be the goal of 
higher education in the 90s to 
investigate, promote, and teach 
such candidness. Our views must
be established on independent use 
of our faculties, not on “the ac­
cepted view.” Are we gliders who 
catch the currents and ride on 
them, or can we propel ourselves 
to a destination befitting our most 
special resource — the mind?
David Beojekian 
Junior, ECE
OPEN FORUM is a new
monthly feature which focuses 
on in-depth commentaries from 
the campus community on a 
specific topic. Coming March 
6: The war on drugs.
Through the years a good idea 
got lost — the idea that learning 
shouldbe fun and enjoyable. Back 
when I was a Boy Scout, we did 
things together, and shared a 
sense of camaraderie. How nice it 
was to cook, clean, camp out, and 
go on walks. Nowadays, in col­
lege, that sense of closeness isn’t 
always there. I have had, and 
occasionally still have, professors 
that spur creative thinking, 
making learning fun like it was in 
the Scouts. I think there is much 
to be said for those who can not 
only motivate you to do the re­
quired work, but also present 
material in such a way that they 
inspire you to search for more.
I see the role of education in the 
1990s as a two-way street, one in 
which the attitudes and beliefs of 
the student share common ground 
with that of the professor. I know 
that as a student I like personal­
ized attention, a comfortable 
atmosphere, and knowing that 
what I’m doing counts for some­
thing. I like to believe professors 
are the same. It seems there needs 
to be a way to achieve a mutually 
beneficial environment for every­
one in academia. I would like to 
present some ideas of how the 
built world affects our learning 
and our perception of learning. 
Understated is the fact that the 
role of education in the 1990s 
should be more individually per­
sonalized, and that a small per­
centage of professors have the 
greatest effect on learning.
There is a need to feel as if an 
individual is important. As class 
size gets larger, I get smaller. 
That depersonalized “I feel like a 
number” sensation hits when I’m 
in a lecture-hall sized class. A so­
lution to some of those precon: 
ceived notions, like people 
seated in the front rows are the 
smartest while those in back 
want to sleep, would be solved 
with a more manageable-sized 
class, seated in a circle. By doing 
so, you can see everyone and 
share an intimate environment 
with a sense of belonging. Ho w 
nice it is to know your class­
mates by name.
To me, it is important to relax 
and feel comfortable in order,to' 
learn. To get there, I think class- . 
rooms should be well-lit and 
painted with some brighter, 
happier colors — but not so ] 
happy as to be distracting. Also, 
sitting in a chair shouldn’t be a 
chore, either, but some chairs 
are difficult to sit in. I can’t pay 
attention if I’m sliding around 
or getting body aches from a 
crappy kind of chair. What el 
yucky feeling, too, if your legs, 
stick to it in the summertime. I 
think we need more fabric-cov- 
ered seats to learn better. Ohr 
and about the acoustics — how 
can you learn at all if you can’t t 
hear what’s being said? What 
people have to say is important 
and shouldn’t have to be picked 
up echoing off the floor and 
walls.
For a more successful educa­
tion for the 90s, I see it going. 
back to basics: being comfort 
able, seeing what’s going on, 
hearing what’s being said and 
enjoying the company you are 
with. There is much to learn, 
and it shouldn’t be confined to 
just the classroom.
Name Withheld
Senior, Industrial Design -
Drawing to be held Februaury 14, 1990
'emeret
•emu bookstore*
IN BAKER HALL
Bookstore !
WIN 
TEN DOLLARS!
At the

---------------------------------------------------

courtesy Mark Robson
Saturday's hockey action featured a Tartan victory over 
Allegheny College and a loss to Pitt.
CMU takes to ice against Pitt, Allegheny
By MARK ROBSON
Special to The Tartan
The CMU hockey team split a pair of games last 
weekend as it traveled to Meadville and defeated Al­
legheny College on Saturday and lost to Pitt at home on 
Sunday. For the Ice Tartans, the 6-4 loss to Pitt was 
their third consecutive home defeat.
Plagued by injuries, the Tartans’ offense and defense 
has suffered.. Defensemen and captains David Collins 
and Mark Robson, and Chris Galvin, the team’s best 
winger, have been sidelined due to injury. Robson is out 
for the season with a fractured kneecap. Collins suffered 
a broken rib and bruised spleen after being kicked by an 
Allegheny player in Saturday’s game and is probably 
gone for the season.
With two strong defensemen missing from the lineup, 
Jon Caron, a center, was moved back to defense. The 
voids left by Galvin and Caron on the first and second 
lines have been filled by third and fourth line players.
“The team put in a better effort today than they have 
so far this semester. We’re just running out of players,” 
said coach Steve Douglas of Sunday’s game.
Pitt capitalized on the power-play to score first with 
3:06 remaining in the first period after CMU was penal­
ized for having too many men on the ice. Pitt scored 
again at 1:11 to make the score 2-0.
Paul Martinchich and James Thompson set up Mike 
Gallin as skated around the net and wristed the puck 
into the Pitt net 23 second later to make the score 2—1
Pitt. This was Gallin’s first goal as a Tartan.
The second period saw Pitt getting a quick goal 
followed by Henderson’s onetiming a centering pass 
past the Panther netminder with 13:20 remaining to 
close the Ice Tartans within one goal. Assists came 
from Ed Kilduff and George Mueller. Again Pitt scored 
on the power-play at 8:52 to make the score 4-2 Pitt. 
With 4:53 remaining, Dick Hanson intercepted a Pitt 
clearing pass and blasted in a slapshot from 40 feet out 
to again bring the Ice Tartans to within one goal. Pitt 
scored again 58 seconds later to extend their lead to 
5-3.
The Tartans matched goals with the Panthers in the 
third period. CMU’s goal came from Kilduff as he took 
a Henderson pass from five feet inside the blue line and 
snapped in a goal from 30 feet out. Mueller got the 
second assist on the goal.
“We played ‘catch-up’ hockey the whole night,” said 
captain Denny Frey.
Saturday’s game was tight as the Tartans beat The 
Allegheny Gators 2—1. Caron took a Randy Walter 
pass, wheeled down the right side, drew the Gator 
goalie out of position and slid the puck into the net to 
put the Tartans on the board first, with 12:35 remain­
ing. The Gators evened the score at 1 apiece, five min­
utes and 24 seconds later.
Collins backhanded in his own rebound to score the 
game winning goal with 7:11 remaining in the second 
period. Frey assted on the goal. There was no scoring 
in the third period.
PfnafVo Mb5sm lV omM5Vu bfgryyy
Last minutes of game plague 
Tartans in second loss to NYU
Josh Ruben is a senior profes­
sional writing major and 
Tartan contributing editor.
Pblo 4mmsmVu* abm PfnafVo vgfi f vfln 
5r MnCMlfg n5fu 'fcmo f'flVoa abm 2Vld
Umnolai 5r TblMf'5 fVu -foblV'a5V 
2VlUmnolai* rn5Va nCVVmno lV abm 2kky 
05ab amfco umrmfamu TN2 fa b5cm 
ablo omfo5V* o5 abm vgfimno sV54 abmi 
bfUm abmln 45ns MCa 5Ca r5n abmcy
that gave them a 14-13 lead with 
just over nine minutes left in the 
half. The next five minutes fea­
tured a more even game until 
freshman Kelly Sterling and so­
phomore Heather O’Donnell 
sparked a 7—0 burst that made 
the score 26—23 with three min­
utes left.
The closing minutes of the first 
half proved to be the most dra­
matic of the game. Back-to-back 
scores by sophomore Vicky Ryser 
and junior Denise Doster gave 
the Bisons a one-point lead before 
foul trouble returned the lead to 
the Tartans.
O’Donnell and senior co-captain 
Lisa Smith each hit a pair of free 
throws to make the score 32—29 
with less than a minute to play.
Doster scored to pull the Bisons
SPORTSPEAK
by Josh Ruben
Sports should 
be priority
I am not trying to insult 
anyone’s intelligence, but let’s 
have a quick review.
Unlike Division I schools who 
are allowed to give scholarships, 
all Division III schools have to 
offer (or rather entice) a poten­
tial athlete/student are the 
quality of the education the 
school will provide, and the op­
portunities while in school as 
well as upon graduation. No Z- 
28s, no apartments, no cash.
Just a school, take it or leave it.
When the NCAA comes down 
on a school for recruiting or aca­
demic ineligibility violations, 
the school then claims that it 
has been put at “a disadvan­
tage” since it won’t be able to 
get good athletes. Well gang, 
CMU is and has been at a great 
disadvantage for a long time 
and the NCAA doesn’t even 
care. We may be losing good po­
tential students/athletes be­
cause of the school’s own lack of 
initiative in regards to its 
athletic programs and facilities.
L play basketball with a fairly 
prominent professor at this 
school. He was recently telling 
me .that his son, who is about to 
graduate from high school, has 
been highly sought after by 
some Division III schools to 
come and play Lacrosse — I’ve 
played basketball with the son 
and the kid is a great athlete.
Naturally, since he teaches 
here, the professor wants his 
son to come to CMU. He told me 
about this rinky-dink little 
school west of Harrisburg that 
has a gym which, compared to 
burs, looks like a place where 
the astronauts for NASA work 
out before launches.
He said that he has seen sev­
eral other schools, all of which 
have fantastic athletic facilities 
for their varsity teams as well 
as the campus population in 
general. He was so appalled by 
CMU’s facilities in comparison 
to those schools, that he is 
taking the academic qualities of 
those other schools a bit more 
seriously.
All of this illustrates that 
even on a Division III level, 
athletics do have weight. 
Potentially good students can be 
lost at the site of a nonexistent 
practice field and/or an archaic 
gym. Sorry to burst your 
bubbles, but kids just out of 
high school and even their 
parents, when considering a 
college look at more than just 
how many of the school’s 
graduates are working for IBM. 
Potential students want to be 
sure that they have a place to 
play after the work time is over.
If this school wants to “move 
iforward into the 90s” as Dr. 
Cyert and everyone else in 
Warner Hall claims, then the 
athletic facilities here can no 
longer be looked at as “frills.” 
John Harvey and the new 
president wherever he or she is 
must sit down and figure out 
how to make the athletic 
programs at CMU attractive to 
potential student athletes.
I Unlike a Division I school, 
Carnegie Mellon does not seek 
out great athletes to be stu­
dents. Instead we would like it 
the other way around. But in 
order to get good students, we 
must emphasize and continu­
ally improve our athletic pro­
grams and facilities.
By STEWART LEVINE
Tartan Contributing Editor
As the men’s basketball Tar­
tans gel as a team, the mistakes 
that plagued them all season have 
started to fade.
Unfortunately, one major prob­
lem — an inability to play with 
intensity for 40 minutes — re­
mains.
Lapses at the beginning of the 
second half have become common­
place. The same type of collapse 
which took Carnegie Mellon out 
of games against Washington 
University and Washington & 
Jefferson College nearly produced 
a loss against Bethany College 
and contributed to a loss against 
New York University.
“We just let down,” said sopho­
more Phil Bronner.
A 17-point lead against Be­
thany disappeared over the course 
of eight minutes, and Carnegie 
Mellon needed an overtime pe­
riod to pull out the 89-87 win. 
Against NYU,Carnegie Mellon 
could only muster eight points in 
the first eight minutes of the sec­
ond half, allowing the Violets to 
take a lead they would not relin­
quish.
“We just missed shots,” said 
senior Chris Luckett.
The mixed week places the team 
at 3-14, 1-10 in the University 
Athletic Association, and 1—3 in 
the President’s Athletic Confer­
ence.
Wednesday, the Tartans trav­
elled to Bethany for their final 
game against the Bisons. Strong
shooting paced the team, includ­
ing the three-point shooting of 
sophomores Chris Dobbs and 
Robert Sechan and senior Harvey 
Beckham helped Carnegie Mel­
lon to a 45-35 lead.
The lead swelled to 17 early in 
the second half behind Luckett, 
Beckham, and Dobbs before the 
Bisons mounted their comeback.
A nine-point run sparked by 
Chris Geruschat’s three-point 
shooting brought Bethany back 
into the game, and with six min­
utes remaining the Bisons took 
their first lead since early in the 
first half.
Carnegie Mellon led by two with 
21 seconds when Beckham was 
fouled. He hit the front end of the 
one-and-one to push the lead to 
three.
Bethany’s Jeff Yourkovich 
missed the first free throw in a 
one-and-one ten seconds later, but 
Bethany retained the ball and 
Geruschat hit a three-pointer at 
the buzzer, his seventh of the 
game, to send the game into over­
time.
Bethany took the early lead, 
but two straight Charlie Connors 
baskets gave the Tartans the lead 
and a pair of Jenkins free throws 
gave the team victory, 89-87. The 
win was the team’s first victory 
on the road this season.
Saturday, NYU came to Pitts­
burgh trying to shake its mid­
season doldrums.
After winning nine straight, the 
Violets had hit a rough stretch 
where they lost seven of their last 
nine games.
Early it appeared that the Tar­
tans might get their first back-to- 
back victories of the year. Carne­
gie Mellon built an early lead with 
a combination of Luckett and 
Connors’s inside game and 
Sechan’s outside shooting. NYU 
hung close but trailed at the half 
by two, 33-31.
The second half, though, pro­
vided the opportunity for one of 
the team’s patented swoons. As 
the Tartans’ hands became colder, 
the Violets built their lead. After 
the 13 minute mark, Carnegie 
Mellon could get no closer than 
six. NYU went on to win, 71—61.
One hopeful sign from 
Saturday’s loss was the return to 
action of Bronner. The sophomore 
guard had missed the last four 
games due to an injury to his 
right knee. Bronner played 14 
minutes against the Violets and 
should be able to play against 
Chicago and Washington this 
weekend.
Freshman Dan Jenkins has 
been playing at point guard in his 
absence and should continue to 
split with Bronner until the sopho­
more is at 100% strength.
This week: The Tartans close 
out their 1989-90 UAA schedule 
in Chicago and St. Louis. Friday 
night The Tartans take on the 
Maroons (5-10, 2-6), the only 
UAA team CMU has beaten this 
season. Sunday they take on the 
Bears (11-6,4-3) who beat CMU 
91-68 last month. Friday’s game 
is at 8 pm and Sunday’s at 4 pm. 
Both games will be on WRCT-FM 
(88.3).
Thomas Nichols/Tartan Rie 
This weekend, the Tartans, on the heels of two losses last week, 
a visit to the University of Chicago and Washington University.
Women continue winning streak and perfect record in PAC
By JASON McDONALD
Tartan Assitant Sports Editor
The Tartans ran their current 
winning streak to three games 
last Tuesday by beating Bethany, 
70-56. The win raised the Tar­
tans’ overall record to 12-6, in­
cluding a perfect 4^0 in the Presi­
dents’ Athletic Conference.
“Bethany’s never a trip we look 
forward to,” commented senior co­
captain Donna Spicuzza. “They’re 
a really scrappy team. They go 
hard after the ball, which means 
they go hard after you and foul a 
lot.”
The first half featured a battle 
of momentum shifts as both teams 
put together long scoring runs. 
After Bethany took an early 7-4 
lead, the Tartans went on a nine- 
point scoring streak, assisted by 
four Bison fouls.
Bethany came right back with 
an eight-point run of their own
within one, but freshman Chan­
dra Buist scored with one second 
remaining to push the Tartan lead 
back to three points, 34—31, at the 
half.
The first two minutes of the 
second half turned out to be the 
last time the Bisons would have 
any control over the game.
Two quick scores gave the Bi­
sons a 35-34 lead, but O’Donnell 
and Smith scored eight points in 
a 9-2 run to make the score 43-37.
After a few minutes of holding 
the lead between 6 and 10 points, 
the Tartans went on another 9-2 
run, keyed by Spicuzza and so­
phomore Amy Buxbaum. 
Buxbaum would lead the Tartans 
in scoring and rebounding with 
16 points and 12 rebounds.
“We were more patient in the 
second half, and we shot a lot 
better,” said Buxbaum.
The last three minutes of the 
game became a mere formality.
Bethany would only score six 
points in the closing minutes as 
foul trouble continued to offset! 
any offensive gains. The Tartans 
scored their last six points on free 
throws as the top three Bison 
scorers fouled out down the 
stretch.
This weekend, the Tartans play 
a pair of crucial road games 
against the University of Chicago 
and Washington University, fron- 
trunners in the University Ath­
letic Association.
Both teams defeated Carnegie 
Mellon at home this season, so! 
the players know they have their, 
work cut out for them.
“They’re always tough teams 
and tough road trips,” said* 
Spicuzza. “We’re going to have to« 
play well from the opening tip, 
instead of from halftime on.”
“The only pressure on us is from; 
within,” Buxbaum added. “Wei 
just have to play the best we can.”!

---------------------------------------------------

The Tartan • Carnegie Mellon • 6 February 199011
Crew launches indoor season
By WENDY EVANS
Special to The Tartan
Carnegie Mellon’s Rowing 
Club got backinto competition 
last Saturday, winning the 
team trophy for highest points 
earned, when it competed in 
the Pittsburgh Indoor Rowing 
Championship held at 
Chatham College.
The championship, spon­
sored by Three Rivers Rowing 
Association, consisted of indi­
vidual competitors and mem­
bers of rowing clubs as well as 
local schools such as the Uni­
versity of Pittsburgh, 
Duquesne University, 
Chatham College, and Fox 
Chapel High School.
The race, performed on an 
ergometer (indoor rowing 
machine), is mainly a test of 
fitness with a smaller techni­
cal component than on-water 
races. The class differentia­
tions are weight, sex, and age, 
with rowers erging 2500 me­
ters and coxswains ergingl500 
meters.
The club had strongperform- 
ances in all categories. Some 
highlights for the men were 
Assistant Coach Thomas 
Hoeffel’s fourth place (9:07.0), 
freshman Jim McBrier’s sixth
Pbm nfMm* vmnr5ncmu 5V fV mn'5cmd
amn AlVu55n n54lV' cfMblVm—* lo 
cflVgi f amoa 5r rlaVmoo 4lab f 
ocfggmn amMbVlMfg M5cv5VmVa abfV 
5VD4famn nfMmoy Pbm Mgfoo ulrrmnmVd
alfal5Vo fnm 4ml'ba* omW* fVu f'm yyy
place (9:13.0) and junior Phil 
Meek’s seventh (9:16.1) place in 
the finals of the lightweight men’s 
division. Other CMU rowers that 
competed in the lightweight heat 
are freshman Brady Buchanan, 
seniors Bill Posega and Mike 
Barry, juniors Marc Roston, Ed 
Miller, Chad Dawson, and sopho­
more Matt Frattali.
Shawn Ohler, a sophomore, and 
junior Ted Ralphs (8:49.8) both 
qualified for the men’s heavy­
weight final; Ohler placed fourth 
with a time of 8:44.3. Also in the 
heat were Assistant Coach Glen 
Pasewictz and juniors Dan Ross 
and Gary Hooyman.
The women had equally good 
races. Freshman Wendy Evans 
and senior Ellen Barry began the 
day with second and third place 
finishes in the junior division. 
Junior Abigail Ochberg got her
personal best time (10:44.2) in 
the lightweight women’s divi­
sion, placing second behind 
CMU graduate Molly Johnson.
The competition in the heavy­
weight women’s division also 
went well for the Tartans. 
Junior Antine Stenbit placed 
second with a time of 
10:21.1,while sophomores 
OlympiaTucciandArmaLoney 
placed fifth and twelfth, respec­
tively.
In the coxswain division, so­
phomore Peter Chan, senior 
Sophie Chiang, and Assistant 
Coach Marta Fuentealba 
rowed for CMU. Chan placed 
first (5:51.1) in the 1500 meter 
race with no opposition on the 
men’s side. In the women’s race, 
Fuentealba and Chiangplaced 
first (6:21.1) and second 
(6:51.4), respectively.
Offbeat sports are refreshing change 
from typical American pastimes
Football, baseball, basketball
— what would we do without our 
old standbys and America’s fa­
vorite pastimes?
But they aren’t for everyone. 
For those whose tastes require 
something a little different to 
satisfy their physical desires, 
there is a wide range of unique 
sports played throughout the 
country that just might be fun for 
someone intersted in offbeat ath­
letics.
Many unfamiliar activities have 
been introduced to the world in 
recent years through World Cup 
or Olympic competition. Some 
gain popularity with leaps and 
bounds as media coverage intro­
duces the sport to the world.
Others maintain a “black sheep” 
type of status in which the compe­
tition and loyalty run deep yet 
few share the interest and there­
fore the growth is limited. Still 
other activities continue through 
a cycle of popularity then dor­
mancy.
One such sport that has experi­
enced this type of cycle is free­
style skiing. Few guidelines and 
safety precautions created a ba­
sin for injuries and lawsuits in 
the early 70s.
Free-style skiing was on the 
road to extinction, however, die-
THE STUDENT BODY
by Sheila Skaff
hards of the sport eventually re­
vamped the programs and regu- 
larintemational competition was 
organized. In 1988, free-style 
skiing debuted as an exhibition 
sport in the Calgary Winter Olym­
pics. This sport features some 
curious activities. Did you ever 
notice the strange activity of 
people frantically scrubbing ice 
with oversized toothbrushes to 
make some big, round thing move 
faster?
As you make your way past the 
glass windows you may snicker, 
but never laugh in the face of a 
curling expert. You will undoubt­
edly end up with a 42-pound block 
of granite on your feet. This small 
but dedicated group of athletes 
remain fiercely committed to their 
sport as it gains popularity in the 
United States and it’s home coun­
try, Canada.
The sport of jai alai is well- 
known in Florida and Connecti-1 
cut. In this game, a hard golf- j 
sized ball is propelled against a 
wall by a long hand-shaped bas- 
ket strapped to a player’s wrisi.; 
This ball often exceeds speeds of 
150 miles per hour, adding to the 
danger of this game.
Originally from Spain, Cuba, 
Mexico and Florida, many con­
sider this fast paced sport popu*. 
lar. Fortunately though, the rules 
of the game have changed with, 
the times, as the custom used to 
be that Mexican Indians who lost 
this game would die.
Platform tennis is also gaining 
in popularity, in spite of the fact; 
that few have access to a court. 
This doubles-only game is played 
on a miniature tennis court, arid 
is known for its constant action. 
An average point may last as long 
as five minutes.
So next time you’re bored with 
the usual games, try something.a 
little different.
Who knows — one of these 
sports someday may take its place 
as America’s new favorite pas­
time.
Sheila Skaff is a Tartali 
staff writer and an H&SS fresh'i 
man.
Swimmers look to success in PAC after loss to Slippery Rock
By ALIM RAY
Tartan Staffwriter
According to Coach Bruce 
Bronsdon, Slippery Rock was “a 
little to deep for us” as both Car­
negie Mellon swim teams lost last 
Tuesday to SRU — the women by 
a score of 124-92 and the men 
146-97.
Because of its Division II stand­
ing (CMU is Division III), Slip­
pery Rock was tough competition 
for the Tartans. Bronsdon was
very pleased with his teams de­
spite the two losses, because CMU 
made a good showing against a 
team out of its league.
“They [Tartans] were pushed 
through the end of the race,” said 
Brondson. “It’s actually better to 
swim against tougher teams.” 
Slippery Rock isnot a member of 
the PAC or of the UAA.
Some of the outstanding per­
formances for the Carnegie Mel­
lon women included Francesca 
Crannell’s winning times of
/Pbm 2kk lo nmfggi 5Ca 5r nmfMb r5n
Coy
T5fMb 0nCMm 0n5Vou5V
2:01.98 and 56.19 in the 200 frees­
tyle and the 100 freestyle, respec­
tively.
Crannell’s 200 freestyle time 
was a half a second shy of the 
school record.
Sophomore Jo Wollfschlaeger
won three events: the 200 indi­
vidual medley in 2:17.63, the 200 
butterfly in 2:15.54 and the 200 
breaststroke in 2:36.28.
The men’s winners included 
sophomore Norman Murray in the 
1000 freestyle in 10:33.78 and
5:06.71 in the 500 freestyle. Sen­
ior Paul Moran won the 200 back­
stroke with a time of2:05.70 while 
senior Brian Zimmerman won the 
200 freestyle with a 1:48.95 time.
This was an exceptional per­
formance for Zimmerman because 
he had been sick all week and 
only practiced once.
Looking ahead to the UAA and 
PAC championships, Bronsdon is 
hopeful that the Tartans can win 
the PAC, but said “the UAA is 
really out of reach for us.”
GRAND OPENING GET THAT BEACH FEELING
SEE OUR REPRESENTATIVE FOR TANNING RATES
-thPw5cThwP3 wuuyP
$1.00 OFF INDIVIDUAL SESSIONS OR 
$1.00 OFF ANY MULTI-SESSION PURCHASE 
WITH THIS COUPON
OFFER EXPIRES MARCH 1,1990
SEE OUR COMPLETE LINE OF 
TANNING PRODUCTS & AMENITIES
look and feel good 687-4880
6FH ,k TP*-R ,hPyyh 9 G-hh,BcPR'0 G* 2A—2DSDW—F
TANNINGSALON
Come to the Beach
Feel like yelling at some women a few days a week?
Lacrosse
Then we have the job for you!
We're looking for someone interested in devoting four hours a week to help coach the C.M.U. Women's Lacrosse Team.
If you are interested, please call Glynnis @ 681-7121
MONDAY 
FEBRUARY 12, 10am - 4pm 
SKIBO BALLROOM
30 Different FREE Tests & Demonstrations:
VISION EKG
HEARING STRENGTH
DIABETES HEALTH-O-RAMA /,'/
LUNG CAPACITY MAGEE BREAST CARE PROGRAM •
BODY FAT SELF MASSAGE : /
BLOOD PRESSURE CHOLESTEROL ($3.00 FEE)
AEROBICS DANCE KARATE
uPyy umiimoS8I ,V4fa1el 
h8Vlk(uefk0 uVMk 2DS2H ) 2—I4 
NmeV fa&me41sfma 1s Mmmsrl ofsr V•IVesl sm 1aloVe vm8e x8Vlsfmal
i

---------------------------------------------------

12The Tartan • Carnegie Mellon » 6 February 1990
tVu55n anfMs gfCVMbmo omfo5VTartans are on right track against SRU
By SHEILA SKAFF
Tartan Staffwriter
The CMU indoor track teams 
took on about 15 schools at the 
Slippery Rock Invitational (non- 
; .team scoring) Friday and demon- 
< strated their improvement.
Starting with the women, sen­
ior Jody Burig grabbed a sixth- 
place finish in the 220 meter event, 
boasting her best time of the year 
with 29.7 seconds in the event.
Also impressive was sophomore 
.Carolyn Lowe’s team lead in the 
mile race, finishing fourth with a 
time of 5:27.9.
“I wanted to break 5:30, and I 
did,” Lowe said. “As a team, ev­
eryone seemed really strong, and 
I think this meet helped a lot of 
people to get a feeling of what 
.they need to work on.”
As a newcomer to CMU track, 
freshman Laura Sibley also ran 
the mile in 5:44, improving her 
time from last week.
Pleased with her performance, 
she said, “My times have improved 
a lot from last year due to consis­
tent college coaching. Right now, 
I just want to continue this pat­
tern in order to aid my upper­
classmen in making our team 
stronger for this spring and next 
year.”
In the two-mile event, senior 
Sue Johnson ran to a second-place 
finish with a time of 13:10, and 
junior Sue Sparks’ time of 13:24 
earned a fourth place for the jun­
ior distance runner.
The mile relay consisted of 
sophomore Lois Raska, Lowe, 
senior Sandy Payne, and Burig. 
The four managed to pull off a
fifth place finish in the event.
The members of the men’s team 
also proved that they were able to 
withstand the pressure of their 
competitors, and several strong 
finishes demonstrated this.
Junior sprinter Jeff Illian placed 
fourth in the 220 meters, with a 
time of 23.9 seconds. In the half- 
mile race, junior Gary Harrison’s 
time of 1:58.9 placed him second, 
while Dave Supp’s 2:06 found him 
in fourth place.
In the mile, senior Len O’Neal 
came from behind to finish sec­
ond in 4:23.9, followed by senior 
Dave Supp in fourth at 4:27.1.
“If I would have kicked a little 
sooner, I feel I would have won 
the race,” said O’Neal. “However, 
would’ve, could’ve, should’ve.... I’ll 
know better the next race.”
Supp is also pleased that his
times are consistently dropping, 
and remarked that he is looking 
forward to a fall recovery from a 
recent injury.
Sophomore Mike Damon ran 
the two-mile event in 9:52, a time 
which earned him fourth place. 
The mile relay team consisting of 
O’Neal, Harrison, and freshmen 
Sean Pempel and Ben Bell fin­
ished in second place.
On the field, sophomore pole 
vaulter Jeff Palaima earned 
fourth place with 13 feet, while 
freshman long jumper Frank De- 
siderio jumped 20 feet, 7 inches to 
fourth place.
Coach Dario Donatelli thinks, 
in spite of the tough competition 
the team faced, “Everybody... was 
improving from last week in this 
meet. We are definitely on the 
right track.”
NHL brewing with news of Minnesota move
By MICHAEL D. C. DROUT
Tartan Staffwriter
Minnesota threatens move.
Minnesota North Stars manage- 
" mfent has threatened to move the 
team from Bloomington to 
Oakland, Calif, for the 1990-91 
season if the local Metropolitan 
Sports Facilities Commission will 
not pick up the tab for $15 million 
in renovations needed at the Met 
Center.
While it is against NHL bylaws 
to move a team, exceptions have 
b'een regularly granted in the past; 
most recently the Atlanta Flames 
moved to Calgary, and the Kan­
sas City Scouts to Colorado to 
become the Rockies and then to 
New Jersey to become the Devils.
North Star owner Gordon Gund 
•is'popular with other NHL own­
ers and presumably would not 
*; "have announced the intended 
move if he did not feel he had 
their support.
Not only Minnesotans are up in 
•j the arms. The city of San Jose, vo­
ciferously lobbying for an expan- 
•j sion franchise in 1991 or 1992, is 
not thrilled with the prospect of 
• an NHL team moving to nearby
Oakland. A move to Oakland by 
the North Stars would make 
Milwaukee the most likely loca­
tion for an expansion franchise in 
’91 or ’92.
Poulin contributes to 
Bruins. The first-place Boston 
Bruins have managed to signifi­
cantly improve their team in the 
midst of the season.
After finally agreeing to report 
to the Bruins after being traded 
by Philadelphia for Ken “the Rat” 
Linseman, Dave Poulin seems to 
have returned to his Selke win­
ning days as best defensive for­
ward in the game. The Bruins’ 
third line is not a force to be feared 
and should further improve their 
dominating defense.
Kerr returns to Philadel­
phia. Tim Kerr, the player the 
Philadelphia Flyers need most to 
put together a serious playoff 
drive, regained some of his old 
form against the Pittsburgh Pen­
guins when he scored two goals 
and assisted on a third. Kerr 
looked good, moving the puck well 
and rebounding from a tough 
check by Jim Johnson.
Kerr, who is plagued by recur­
rent shoulder problems, said in a
Sports Shorts
UAA Athlete of the Week
The University Athletic Asso­
ciation chose Carnegie Mellon’s 
I« Carolyn Lowe as the Athlete of 
the Week for women’s Indoor 
!; Track for the week of January 22. 
The CMU sophomore went to 
Radford High School in Honolulu, 
;/ Hawaii. Lowe found the track to 
her liking last weekend at the 
/ Rpbert Morris Invitational, but 
V she didn’t stay there too long.
?.J I* Lowe finished first in two events 
at* the non-scoring meet: thel500- 
¦ * meter run in 5:07.7 and the 3000- 
f meter run in 11:15.7.
1990 Pirate Tickets On Sale
\;"lThe Pittsburgh Pirates an- 
Ij riounced last Tuesday that indi- 
‘C^dual game tickets for the 1990
season would go on sale by phone 
and at selected area Kaufmann’s, 
National Record Marts, and Oa­
sis Music and Video Stores. Sales 
began Thursday.
Tickets for the Pirates’ home 
opener, April 3 againstNew York, 
and all other home games are 
available by calling Ticketmas- 
ter, the official ticket agency of 
the Pirates, at 323-1919 locally, 
or 1-800-366-1212 outside Al­
legheny County.
Last season’s home opener 
against the Mets was sold out on 
February 7, marking the first time 
the club has sold out a game prior 
to. the start of the season. Fans 
are urged to buy their tickets early 
to avoid missing the excitement 
of Opening Day.
There is a $1.35 service charge 
per ticket at all outlets and a
, e „orW > PÄ'V990 seasonKi„,s Productions,^. aulWonl lor varietyol
ol KW*OS‘Sa^l0tíe ondc. 250 m.les to
*ePac'‘' ..ul A
s'\ngers a'.n£umenwVisfc
Pbm Mlai 5r IfV 65om* U5Mlrmn5Cogi g51d
1ilV' r5n fV mWvfVol5V rnfVMblom lV 
())( 5n ())&* lo V5a abnlggmu 4lab abm 
vn5ovmMa 5r fV hE8 amfc c5UlV' a5 
Vmfn1i •fsgfVuy
post-game interview that he feels 
he is finally getting his timing 
back. If he can return to his 50 
goals scoring form, it will make 
the Flyers that much more dan­
gerous for the rest of the season.
Notes. Early last week Mario 
Lemieux scored a point in his 
fortieth consecutive game, eclips­
ing Wayne Gretzky’s second-best 
streak of 39. Lemieux will now 
attempt to equal Gretzky’s 51- 
point record. Lemieux also broke 
the unwritten gag rule of NHL 
players about refereeing, saying 
that he thought that refs should 
“protect the better players in the 
league.”
Pat Verbeek of the Hartford 
Whalers is the only NHL player 
to lead his team in both goals and
$1.85 charge on all phone orders 
placed through Ticketmaster. No 
service fee will be charged when 
ordering tickets through the mail 
or at the Three Rivers Stadium 
Advance Ticket Windows.
To order by. mail, send a check 
or money order made payable to 
the Pittsburgh Pirates to:
i Ticket Manager 
Pittsburgh Pirates 
600 Stadium Circle 
Pittsburgh, PA 15212
Include $2.50 to the total for 
postage and handling.
Ticket prices for the 1990 sea­
son are:
Club Boxes — $11 
Mezzanine Boxes — $8 
Terrace Boxes — $7.50 
Family Boxes — $6
penalty minutes, with25 andl29. 
If Verbeek could keep from slash­
ing someone on each shift, he 
would have ten more goals than 
he does now. As is, he is spending 
too many minutes of each game in 
the penalty box to be as an effec­
tive offensive force as he could be.
An old rumor that seems mostly 
dead now is that Sandstrom and 
Granato, recently acquired by the 
L. A. Kings in exchange for Bernie 
Nicholls (who, by the way, has 
contributed nothing since arriv­
ing in New York to play for the 
Rangers), will be traded to the 
Edmonton Oilers for Jari Kurri.
Even Peter Pocklington is 
probably not stupid enough to 
trade off Kurri within the divi-
Reserved Seats — $6 
Reserved Gen. Admission — $5 
General Admission — $4 
Youth General Admission—$2.50 
Beginning in 1990, two new 
seating areas in Three Rivers 
Stadium have been designated.
The 100 level brown seats in 
the outfield will become Family 
Box Seats. The left field portion of 
this area will be a non-smoking, 
non-drinking section.
The red seats on the 200 level in 
the outfield will become Reserved 
General Admission Seats. Previ­
ously, fans were not guaranteed a 
specific seat in this area.
Fans may continue to call (412) 
321-BUCS or 1-800-BUY-BUCS 
(outside Allegheny County) to 
purchase season tickets or to 
receive information on group sales 
and Fan Flex books.
A Captivating 
cut. Seductive 
styling. Our staff 
of highly trained 
professionals 
know what it 
takes to create a 
look that lives 
up to your 
expectations.
237 Atwood St. 687-3500Across the street from the Oakland Post Office
x’yee •rr
On a Precision Haircut
(comDlete with wash & style)
| Expires 2/28/90
_ MUST HAVE COUPON
Free Hair Consultation 
Also Available:
• Perms
• Coloring
• Frosting SATISFACTION
• Conditioning GUARANTEED
UAA Basketball Standings
MEN {as of 2/1)
UAA
Emory100
Overall
Rochester16 2
Rochester72Emory15 1
Johns HopkinS42NYU11 6
Washington43Johns Hopkins11 6
Case Reserve34Washington10 9
NYU35Brandéis11 8
Brandéis36Case Reserve9 8
Chicago26Chicago5 10
Carnegie Mellon19Carnegie Mellon3 13
WOMEN (as of 1/22) 
UAA
Washington 60
Overall
Chicago14 2
Chicago61Washington13 1
Carnegie Mellon74NYU11 6
Johns Hopkins43Johns Hopkins4 4
NYU54Carnegie Mellon9 6
Brandéis35Brandéis4 6
Emory26Emory6 9
Rochester26Rochester4 13
Case Reserve08Case Reserve3 12
PAC Basketball Standings
MEN
PAC
W&J
(as of 1/29}
Overall
3 1 W&J11 • 4
Grove City31Grove City9 9
Thiel31Thiel9 9
Bethany03Bethany5 12
Carnegie Mellon03Carnegie Mellon2 13
WOMEN
PAC
Carnegie Mellon30
Overall
Carnegie Mellon11 6
Thiel21W&J8 6
W&J22Thiel8 8
Grove City13Bethany7 10
Bethany03Grove City5 9
IUI
Entertaining!
You are a bright individual with loads of talent. All you need 
is the right place to strut your stuff...to show your rare brand 
of enthusiasm. Put on your safari hat and come to Busch 
Gardens, Florida’s most entertaining and exotic adventure 
park! Everyone will be just wild about you. We promise!
*c5-h-wt, / -thyP’-yE,
Friday, February 16,1990 • 9 a.m.—6 p.m. 
SHERATON HOTEL AT 7 STATION SQUARE
,fanVel 1aU 51apVel
We’re searching for male and female feature dancers, and for strong 
singers who also dance well. Singers should prepare two short selec­
tions (ballad and uptempo). Bring sheet music or instrumental back­
ground cassette in your best key. Accompanist and cassette recorder 
provided. Dancers should bring dance attire and have a2 minute pre­
pared choreographed piece showing movement and versatility. 
Singers be prepared to dance and dancers be prepared to sing.
N8lfpf1al
We seek musicians who play primary and secondary instruments. 
We are also looking for musicians who are experienced in dance 
movement, marching band style. You should prepare two short selec­
tions.
Tm4fp *psmel
Prepare a comic monologue, 2 minutes long of appropriate material. 
You may be requested to perform an improvisation. Ethnic dialects 
are helpful and may also be requested.
’1efVsv GVe&me4Vel
Magicians, jugglers and mimes who present strolling street perfor­mances should prepare a short routine demonstrating your specialty.
hVprafp1i GVelmaaVi
Looking for experienced stage managers, skilled sound and lighting 
technicians, stage hands, seamstresses and dressers. Be sure to 
bring your current resume.
O fbeat sporhie
TAMPA BAY, FLORIDA
An Ei/ujI Opportunity Employer MiFHV

---------------------------------------------------

The Tartan • Carnegie Mellon • 6 February 199013
IM Standings
tVolumtVee
MAJOR LEAGUE
& n 10CIT Old Boys 1 0
Up and In 10
Beta A 10
Stars 0 1
LA All Stars 0 1
GSIA+1 0 1
gMiasî
The Stallions 1 0
SUPA Stars 1 0
ATO B-Balls 0 0
Theta Xi 0 0
The Businessmen 0 1
Spirit A 0 1
INTERMEDIATE LEAGUE
niVISION A
Run SAE 1 0
Rabid Bayesians 1 0
Master of the Obvious 1 0
Theta Xi A 0 1
Thundercats II 0 0
Spuds 0 1
Nittmo's 0 1
piVISION B
Sudsuckers 1 0
Sigma Nu B 10
Phi Kap A 10
Math 0 1
GSIA B 0 1
10,000 Met 0 1
piVISION C
The Squad 2 0
Nike Airs 2 0
pioneers 1 1
Pika A 11
Physics 0 2
Insider Traders 0 2
Heceoent i
USS Carnegie 1 0
a WPHA 1 0
The Dudes 1 0
Ben Wa Balls 0 1
Thundercats I 0 1
Theta Xi B 0 1
mvsiON E
ATO Posse 2 0
The Boys 2 0
GDI 2 0
Delta Upsilon02
Barcrawlers02
TX Fisheads02
MINOR LEAGUE
DIVISION A 
Beta Bouncers10
The Yazloistshies10
Doherty Dynasty11
Celtics11
KDR B02
DIVISION B 
ASA10
SAE C10
ATO Oversized11
Black Rain11
APhiO02
DIVISION C 
SAE B10
DTD A10
Russ-Puss10
Basketball Team01
Proud Pete02
DIVISION D 
SlgTau10
KDR10
Asthmatics10
Major Malfunction01
Basement Bullies01
Marybelle Heart01
DIVISION E 
Pi Alpha Delta10
ATO Wrecking Crew10
Lonesome Losers10
Kappa Sig B/Bologna01
USS Bird01
Bucket Brigade01
DIVISION F 
Chess Club B Team10
PI Lam B10
Dangling Participles11
Pika C01
KSA01
DIVISION G 
Mr. Softee’s10
Untitled10
SDC10
Pioneers01
Phi Kap B02
DIVISION H 
USS Barkley10
D. A. Henderson/Tartan Photographer
The Theta Xi Fisheads and GDI squared off Thursday night in 
intermediate Intramural Basketball action. The Fisheads (0-2) lost 
to GDI (2-0). IM Basketball competition kicked off last week in
IM News
SPORTS IN SEASON
Basketball
Commissioners
Majors — Pat Jeffries, x4204
Intermediate — Don Michel,
x5306
Minors — Sujit Bhattacharya, 
x4118
Women Only — Rich Romeo, 
x4417
Complete season schedules are 
out and can be picked up in the IM 
office. Please play all games as 
scheduled — there will be NO 
schedule changes.
Team Table Tennis
Commissioner 
David Ng, x4492
Bowling
Commissioner 
Kris Pasqualin, x4594 
Matches are being rolled Satur­
day mornings at Forward Lanes.
Bridge
Commissioner 
Matt Murbach, x8670 
The bridge tournament will be 
held later this month.
Backgammon
Commissioner 
Beth Moses, x4826
scores to the commissioner or the 
IM office.
Faculty-Grad Volleyball
Commissioner
Cindy Bryce, x2191 ->, ;
Matches will be played Sunday 
evenings from 6:30 to 11 pm. 
Please report the scores to the 
commissioner. This year, a record 
31 teams entered volleyball, r
Chess
Commissioner 
Matt Murbach, x8670 
Please report all results to the 
commissioner. ;
UPCOMING SPORTS
Floor Hockey
Commissioners
Majors — Jim Connelley, x2976 
Intermediate — Warren F.lax, 
x5300
Minors — Sujit Bhattacharya, 
x4118
The final entry date is Thurs­
day at 4:30 pm.
Pinochle
Commissioner
Matt Murbach, x8670 j 
The final entry date is Thurs­
day at 4:30 pm.
Kappa Sig A/Bologna10SAE-DFPO1
Schedules are out and can be 
picked up in the IM office. The
Handball
Commissioner
Green Aces00DIVISION Ktournament will be held Satur­E. J. Birdy, x2214
Phi Mu01Beta Outlaws10day and Sunday at noon in GreyThe final entry date is Febru­
DTD BO1Panamanian Defense10Matter in Skibo — please pick upary 15 at 4:30 pm.
DIVISION 1USS Jordan11the rules and schedules for this
Beta Prime Time10Sigma Nu B01year’s tournament in the IM of­Wrestling
The Asylum10CIA-Ruth01fice.A commissioner is still needed.
Chemistry11The final entry date is February
Pi Lam01WOMEN ONLY LEAGUECricket Darts22 at 4:30 pm. ol(r
Legion of Doom01Volleyball Et Al10Commissioner
DIVISION JDelta Gamma10Sujit Bhattacharya, x4118Water Basketball
Phi Kap C10Gerri’s Kids00Schedules are out and can beCommissioner
Iron Eyes10Pi Alpha Delta00picked up in the IM office. TheTom Fabian, x4290
Theta XiO0SUPA Starlettes01second round shouldbe completedThe final entry date is Febru­
History Grads01Donner Hall Dolls01by Saturday. Please report allary 22 at 4:30 pm.
Classifieds
Housing
Lovely, spacious 1 Bedrm, 1 or 2 
persons, 2 mi75 min from campus. 
Bus to CMU, Lots of Sun, Safe 
area, $395 incl. Heat, Avail. 3/1, 
Day: 431-4600, Eve: 422-3249.
Housing available for gradute & 
mature undergradute students 
interested in an intercultural liv­
ing experience. Reasonable rent, 5 
minute walk to Pitt and CMU. Call 
683-5064 for more information.
Apartment for rent. Almost on 
campus. Huge, 10 rooms, 2 story 
apartment. 5 bedrooms, 2 living 
rooms, 2 bathrooms, kitchen, din­
ing room, small office, sun porch, 
garage, storm windows, 1 floor air- 
conditioned, washer/dryer. Legal 
permit for 5. Available May $1750 
+ utilities. Call 521-9441 after 8 pm.
Shadyside Apartment Suites. 
Elegantly furnished, well appointed 
1 & 2 bedroom suites. Includes 
Cable (HBO), Phone, Parking, 
Linens. One block to Walnut St. 
shops. From $33 per day. One 
month minimum. Daily and weekly 
rate available.
Jobs
JOBS JOBS JOBS Work-study and 
some non-work/study. Many positions 
available in Instructional Technol­
ogy, lower level, Hunt Library. Day­
time, evening, and weekend hours at 
$4.25/Hr. See Dale Dessell, for appli­
cations. 8am to 4:30pm M-F.
Evening housekeeping and cook­
ing. 4:30-8:30 pm, 3-4 weeknights. 
$7.00/hrs. 683-0289.
JOB OPPORTUNITIES IN AUSTRA­
LIA. Openings available in several 
areas, will train. For info call: 708- 
742-8620 ext. 1233.
Models Needed: Men, Women, Chil­
dren, Teens. Catalogs, Brochures. 
State Licensed, Insured. No Training 
Reqd. Established 1973. Van Enter­
prise 355-0412.
Healthy, non-smoking, average 
weight women, age 20 to 30 with 
regular (27 to 31 day) menstrual cycles 
ancf not presently taking birth con­
trol pills, wanted to participate in 
clinical research studies at Magee- 
Women’s Hospital. Reimbursement 
provided. For more details, contact 
Jan Bauer, RN, at 647-1609.
Market Discover credit cards on 
your campus. Flexible Hours. Earn 
as much as $10/hr. Only 10 posi­
tions available. Call 1-800-950- 8472, ext. 3014.
Services
Low student rates to Europe and 
worldwide: Forum Travel; 681- 
4099, 4608 Winthrop, off South 
Craig. We also carry Youth Hostel
Roses for your valentine ... Bal­
loons ... Alex’s Flowers ... Carna­
tions ... Love or Like ... Delivery 
687-Alex (Craig/Bayard).
Miscellaneous
Pregnant? Looking for terrific 
adoptive parents? Call us! We have 
lots of love to share. Bonnie & Bob. 
Collect 443-8938. Legal & Confi­
dential, Expenses paid.
Wanted: Mac SE 441-8599.
CLASSIFIED ADVERTISING 
To submit a classified ad, call The 
Tartan at x2111. Ads must be 
placed by Thursday, 5 pm, before 
the next Tuesday’s issue.
*ssVasfmaL *ssVasfmaL *ssVasfmaL
THE CARNEGIE MELLON ACTION PROJECT (CMAP)
IS INTERESTED IN HIRING TUTORS FOR THE FOLLOWING COURSES
03-121 Modern Biology
09-104 Chemical Aspects of Organic and Biochemical Materials 
18-212 Analysis and Design of Analog Circuits 
18-218 Signals & Systems II 
21-112 Calculus II (H&SS)
21-121 Calculus I (CIT) 
21-122 Calculus II (CIT) 
70-121 Financial Accounting 
70-312 Organizational Behavior II 
70-422 Cost Accounting
If you are interested in tutoring, please contact Rhonda Green at x2151. A copy 
of your transcript and a letter of recommendation from your department or TA is 
needed to assess your competency in the given subject.
70-481 Marketing II 
73-100 Principles of Economics 
73-250 Intermediate Microeconomic's*; 
73-300 Macroeconomics A
73-360 Econometrics
79-100 How Historians Think - -
80-100 Philosophic Methods 
85-100 Cognitive Processes 
88-103 Decision Making 
88-221 Policy Analysis II
PIZZA OUTLET
FREE DELIVERY
Ar CC (Across from
190 N. Craig OP # " jf 333 Gulf Station) 
OPEN 7 DAYS Sun-Thurs llam-lam Fri & Sat llam-2am
2 PIZZAS $5.99
O Medium — qq I q Large q qq 
¿Pizzas / mjtjß I ¿Pizzas y.yy
No Coupon Necessary • For Limited Time Only
are
you
MAD?
patience......it's coming SOOn to a 
campus near you!!

---------------------------------------------------

/MV El RiSI I
The Music of Mario Lavista. Tonight 
at 8 pm in the Mellon Institute Audito­
rium. Call x2383 for details
Pieces of a Dream. Tomorrow night at 
10 pm at Metropol. Doors open at 8 pm. 
Admission $12. Must be 21 to enter.
David Benoit. See this great jazz artist 
in .action, Thursday at 8 pm at Graffiti.
Cóle Porter in Love. An Opera/Musi­
cal Theatre Workshop. Thursday at 12:30 
pm in the Skibo Ballroom. Call x2383 for 
details
CMU Choruses: Robert Page, conduc­
tor. Friday at 8 pm at the Carnegie 
Music Hall. Admission will be charged. 
Call x2383.
RÉO Speedwagon is coming to Club 22 
Friday at 9 pm.
The Pittsburgh Symphony: Featur­
ing Eduardo Mata, conductor, and pian­
ist Maria Joao Pires. Friday at 8:30 pm. 
Call 392-4821 for ticket information.
A.T.S. will play Friday at 10 pm at the 
Electric Banana with Norm Nardini. You 
can also see them Saturday at the Beaux 
Arts Ball at 10 pm in “The Loge” (Fine 
Arts Building).
Faculty Recital: Irene Schreier & Saul 
Bitran. Tuesday, February 13 at 8 pm in 
thé Mellon Institute Auditorium.
I {Tears for Fears. Tickets available now 
for a 7:30 show at the A.J. Palumbo 
Center on Tuesday, February 13.
Animal Logic, with Stewart Copeland 
and Stanley Clark, will play at Metropol 
Tljursday, February 15 at 7:30 pm.
Ladysmith Black Mambazo. See Paul 
Simon’s incredible back-up group Thurs­
day, February 15 in the Skibo Ballroom 
at.|7:30 pm. Tickets on sale at the Infor­
mation Desk for $3 with CMU ID.
Warren Zevon plays the Syria Mosque 
on; Friday, February 18.
Charlie Daniels will appear at South 
Hills Theater on Friday, February 18.
Whitesnake/Kix are comingto the Civic 
Aliena on February 27.
at 7:30 and 9:30 pm.
Betty Blue shows at the Playhouse on 
Monday at 7:30 and 9:40 pm.
Staying Together. Next Tuesday at 
the Playhouse, at 7:30 and 9:30 pm.
Henry V will be showing on a 52 foot 
screen at the Benedum Center for 3 days, 
starting Wednesday. The price is $6.50. 
For more information, call 456-6666.
Theate
Heart Condition and Rocky Horror 
Picture Show are now showing at King’s 
Court. Call 682-2334 for details.
Roger & Me, Driving Miss Daisy, ^nd 
Music Box are now showing at Squirrel 
Hill Theater. Call 421-7900.
Stella and Bom on the Fourth of 
July are now showing at Manor Cin­
ema. Call 421-1633.
sex, lies, and videotape. If you still 
haven’t seen this film, it’s at the Pitts­
burgh Playhouse from today through 
Thursday. Showings are at 7:30 and 9:30 
pm each day.
Yellow Submarine. The Beatles’ car­
toon classic shows this Thursday in 
DH2210 at 6, 8, and 10 pm.
Dead Poets Society. Shows this Fri­
day at the Playhouse, at 7:30 and 9:40 
pm. If you’d like a shorter walk, how­
ever, see it in DH2210, Friday at 7,9:30, 
and 12 pm.
Sea of Love. Shows in DH2210, Satur­
day at 7, 9:30, and 12 pm.
Do the Right Thing. See Spike Lee in 
this tense film about racial problems. 
This Saturday at the Playhouse, 7:30 
and 9:45 pm.
The Pink Panther Strikes Again. This 
installment of the series plays on Sun­
day in DH2210, at 6, 8,10, and 12 pm.
La Traviata. This film of the Italian 
Opera shows at the Playhouse, Sunday
The West Virginia Invitational takes 
place on Saturday.
Men’s and Women’s Swimming: CMU
vs. Grove City College with Baldwin- 
Wallace College, (away) at 1 pm, Satur­
day.
Women’s Basketball: The Tartans play 
WashingtonUniversity(MO)(away)atl 
pm on Sunday.
Men’s Basketball: CMU vs. Washing­
ton University (MO). Play begins at 3 pm 
on Sunday (away).
Air Brake) Archives 1890-1968. These 
photographs provide insights into both 
the worksite and town life. All this month 
on the fourth floor.
Stars of the Pharaohs Sky Show.
Now through March 18 at the Buhl Sci­
ence Center. 237-3300.
1990 Pittsburgh Auto Show. You too
can see the old and new Batmobiles! 
February 21-25 at the David Lawrence 
Convention Center. Call 565-6000.
Department of Chemistry Seminar.
Professor A. Myers from the University 
of Rochester will speak at 4 pm today at 
12B Chevron Science Center, Pitt. Spon­
sored by the Departments of Chemistry 
of both CMU and Pitt.
Art Department Lecture Series.
Terry Homisak, art historian from Pitts­
burgh, will speak at Margaret Morrison 
A14, Wednesday at 5:30 pm.
Hands & Hearts: A Look Back at 
Americans in Love. Dr. Ellen Roth- 
man of the Massachusettes Division of 
Forests and Parks will talk about the 
history of American courtship. Wednes­
day at 7:30 pm, 4338 Bigelow Blvd. $2 
for non-members. Phone 681-5533.
Oppositional Style, in Security, in 
Health. This is the first lecture in the 
Carnegie Mellon Colloquium Series. 
Featured is Dr. Kent Houston of the 
University of Kansas. Baker Hall 135, 
Thursday at 4 pm.
Abortion: The Repercussions Since 
Webster. Four speakers debate the is­
sue in Skibo Ballroom, Thursday at 8 
pm. Sponsored by the Political Speakers 
Forum Board.
Holocaust Remembered. Mrs. Dora 
Iwler, Vice-President of the Pittsburgh 
Holocaust Survivors Group, will tell her 
story on Monday, February 12 at 8 pm at 
the Roman Catholic Oratory (4040 Bige­
low Blvd.) Call 681-3181 for details.
Robotics into the Next Century.
Presented by Dr. William “Red” Whit­
taker, Director of Field Robotics Center, 
CMU. Tuesday, February 13, at 5 pm in 
the Adamson Wing.
Beaux Arts Ball. If you’ve got tickets 
for Saturday night’s extravaganza, start 
catching up on your sleep now!
MEMS Freshman Open House. Wean 
Hall 4327; this Wednesday at 4:30 pm. 
Featuring pizza and atomic resolution 
microscopy afterward.
Art Tools/Art Toys. Demo of Hunt 
Library’s new art software. Experiment 
with ArtCom, fractal generators, and 
more at micro-fair, Ellis Gallery in CFA 
through Friday, 11:30 am to 5 pm. Call 
Tim, x2451, for more information.
Forbes Gallery Group Show with 
sculpture, prints, and drawings by Steve 
Shreve, Doug Lamperski, Lauren 
Frohlich and R. J. Roonas. Show starts 
Wednesday and lasts through Monday. 
Reception Friday, 7 to 9 pm. Call x2081.
WRCT presents Sportsline, its weekly 
call-in interview talk show. Free pizza to 
the winner of the trivia contest. Every 
Wednesday night 8:30 pm on WRCT,
88.3 FM.
Photo Exhibit in Hunt Library.
“Company/Company Town.” Photo­
graphs from the WABCO (Westinghouse
Career Resources for MCS Fresh­
men. Learn how to use the Career 
Center services to help you explore your 
choice of major or career. Summer em­
ployment information will also be avail­
able. Today at 4:30 pm, 125 Scaife Hall.
Fine Arts Information Table at CFA.
Counselors will be on hand to discuss 
questions related to career and academic 
choices, job search strategy, and the 
graduate school application process. 
Wednesday, 11 am to 2 pm, outside the 
Dean’s office.
Fine Arts Information Table at Mar­
garet Morrison. Same as above, but on 
Thursday, outside the Dean’s office at 
Margaret Morrison.
Clarifying Your Career Objective.
Are you stuck on that first section of your 
resumé? Leam about avenues to exam­
ine and define your options and ways to 
express them. Thursday at 4:30 pm, Skibo 
12.
The Roman Catholic Chaplaincy cele­
brates Mass on campus 7 pm Saturday 
evenings and 10:30 Sunday mornings in 
the GSIA auditorium. Daily mass is cele­
brated at 12:30 pm in CMU’s chapel 
(Skibo Room 39). For more information, 
call 681-3181.
National College Poetry Contest 
Open to all college & university students 
desiring to have their poetry antholo. 
gized. Cash prizes will be awarded to the 
top five poems. Deadline: March 31. For| 
further information send SASE to: In-j 
temational Publication, PO Box 44044.1 
L, Los Angeles, CA 90044.
Citiparks seeks talent for 1990 sum.) 
mer season. Citiparks is on the look-ouf 
for musical groups and dance and theat­
rical companies, to perform in a variety 
of summer programs. Anyone interested' 
should submit video or audio tapes, all 
with biographical information about the ' 
act/performers, to Eric Van at Citiparks 
Room 459-B City-County Building, Pitts, 
burgh, 15219.
President to have open office hours for: 
students. Richard M. Cyert will have' 
open office hours for students between 2 
and 5 pm, in his office, 602 Warner Hall, 
on Friday, February 23. Students who’ 
wish to meet with the president should ,1 
telephone his secretaiy at x2200 to set" 
up an appointment.
Glacier Park to hire 900 college stu-f 
dents for summer jobs in all segments of the hotel and hospitality areas. Glacier'! 
National Park, located in the northwest'1 
comer of Montana is known for its rug- , 
ged mountain wilderness and its historic! 
lodges. For details on jobs and salaries 
call (602) 248-2612.
National Park Service to test for" 
summer lifeguardjobs. The U.S. Dept, of: 
Interior National Park Service has an­
nounced that applications are being" 
accepted for summer lifeguard positions' 
at several National Park Service sites in ' 
the eastern U.S. Lifeguards may earn ¦ 
salaries from $497.63 to $857.38 every 
two weeks. For information, call toll-free1 
1-800 NP 8 SWIM.
CALENDAR SUBMISSIONS. If you] 
want an event to appear in the Calendar,' 
send it to The Tartan, Skibo 50, care of] 
the Calendar Editor. As always, there is\ 
ri'o charge for calendar submissions.
A Walk in the Woods. Now through 
Sunday. Presented by the Pittsburgh 
Playhouse Theatre Center. Call 621-4445 
for ticket info.
Charlotte’s Web. Pittsburgh Playhouse 
Jr. Through March 11. Call 621-4445 for 
details.
Harry and Claire. Presented by the 
City Theatre Company, now through Feb­
ruary 25. Call 624-PLAY.
The Threepenny Opera. Presented by 
the Point Park College Theatre Com­
pany, now through February 18. Call 
621-4445 for details.
Penguin Hockey: Pittsburgh takes on 
the New York Islanders at the Civic 
Arena, tonight at 7:30 pm. Call 642- 
PENS.
PenguinHockey:Pittsburghvs. Wash­
ington at the Civic Arena at 7:30 pm, 
Thursday. Call 642-PENS.
Women’s Basketball: The Tartans take 
on the University of Chicago (away) at 
5pm on Friday.
Men’s Basketball: CMU vs. University 
of Chicago (away) at 7:30 pm on Friday.
Penguin Hockey: Saturday at the Civic 
Arena. Pittsburgh takes on Los Angeles 
at 7:30 pm. Call 642-PENS.
Men’s and Women’s Indoor Track:
College is a breeding ground for premari­
tal sex, even at CMU.
Lenna, I love you.
Eric,
You’re now in Vox Popuii.
Stop reading it.
There are stones buried in your soul and 
only a fool would blame the death of rock 
and roll.
Thomas Dolby 
Keys, I know you want toplay floor hockey.
We really loved the FOOTIES! 
Sincerely,
P, J, & the rest of . 
C-basement!
P.S. They made a great tapestry!
Eggplant!
KA,
You’re more than welcome, and thank 
you too. Anytime you’re in the mood for 
another “session,” give me a yell.
M.
Animal,
You are a bear!
Nikki
It’s all a matter of perspective. I’m not 
selling out, I’m capitalizing.
Mighty Mouse
M.R.:
Why are your gonads in your abdomen? 
Farron:
Why do you care?
Dammit, I’ve been ROBBED!
Bond
[pOOQQ
logo by Keith Chapman
A: So, how are you doing in that art and 
society class over at Pitt?
B: Great. Yesterday, we had a three hour 
discussion about which family was more 
realistic, the Flintstones or the Jetsons.
Sue did it for Adam.
In less than a month, she’ll be here... Shelby
A lady at Student Affairs: “It’s Adam 
again.”
Mike,
Thanks again for the heavy petting. It was 
GREAT!
KA
Stew,
All that bulge and nothing interesting. 
Sorry about the hard feelings.
KA
Watch out for marauding Delts.
Diwi
I really like you...
The Classic Guy
It is a mistake to look too far ahead. Only 
one link in the chain of destiny can be 
handled at a time.
Winston Churchill
KA: Nathan, you’ve got a pretty skilled 
tongue...
Nathan: ...yah, you just put it in different 
places.
Tilt some PUBs of Molson on Mt. 
Olympus Friday.
is coming!
Love alters not with brief hours and weeks, 
but bears it out even to the edge of doom. 
29 - 3 = Love still
CMU Police want Adam.
For getting his logo in Vox Popuii 
Keith Chapman has won a brand 
new... uh... hmmm... copy of The 
Tartan autographed, hy none other 
than Pennsyvania Bill and Stick- 
man Sam (You can pick this up at 
your convenience, Keith). You too 
can win big by submitting a logo 
with your name and number to the 
Calendar Editor at The Tartan.
/P ATTRACTION? FRIENDSHIP? CRUSH?I (Jyr uoo7^1 say it in the Valentine Personals
|__| I---- MESSAGES DUE FRIDAY — SEND TO:
m m m — ___ Valentine Personals AA
I CT The Tartan ^ E E
Slcibo Information Desk

---------------------------------------------------

Voliime 84. issue ISThe Tartan. Carnegie Mellon University. Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania6 February 1990
ieaux Arts Ball is 
longstanding 
tradition at CMU
Py MICHELLE JONES
1artan Staffwriter
By now there should be very 
ew, if any, people on campus who 
iave not heard about the Beaux 
irts Ball and what it represents, 
'eople have heard aboutthe Ball’s 
lace in CMU’s tradition, about 
ts powers of stimulating creativ- 
ty and imagination, and even 
¿out the hazards involved. In 
pite of all of this, the Ball re- 
nains a bizarre event seemingly 
eyond coherent description.
The current belief is that the 
lalls were held every four years, 
lowever, the Balls were origi- 
ally held every year, a practice 
fhich was halted due to the large 
xpense involved. Next it was 
ittempted to have the Balls every 
wo years. The source of the pres- 
¡nt belief in the four year rotation 
hard to pinpoint because there 
las only been one occasion that 
lalls have been separated by four 
-ears. These are the Balls of 1954 
Bal Bleu) and 1960 (Once Upon 
1 Time).
And all those other years? Balls 
iave occurred sporadically 
hroughout CMU’s history, with 
;aps ranging from the less than a 
'ear to an unprecedented nine- 
een years, the lag time between
1960’s Once Upon A Time and 
1979’s Black and White. This 
extended gap might have been 
caused by cancellations of planned 
Balls due to poor ticket sales.
At any rate, the frequency of 
the Balls will continue to be a 
function of the interest and dedi­
cation of those affiliated with CFA, 
particularly the students. Some 
years and people seem to be more 
conducive to the staging of the 
Ball than others.
“This year is different, much 
different,” says Mariko Braswell, 
Beaux Arts chair. Braswell feels 
that students have worked more 
closely with the administration 
and have paid attention to “more 
practical concerns” than past 
Balls.
According to Braswell, more 
money and attention were chan- 
neledintopublicrelationsin order 
to combat skepticism. In addition 
to t-shirts, posters, and pins, a 
mime was hired to spread the 
word, so to speak.
Also different from past years 
is the commitment to charity. 
Suggested by CFA’s new dean, 
Lowry Burgess, a donation to the 
Whale’s Tail is an effort to bring a 
“sense of community” to the Ball.
The charitable aspect of the Ball 
will influence the Pittsburgh
HÉ
ifm
Steve Volan/Tartan file photo
During the 1985 Beaux Arts Ball, the decorations extended to the ceiling of CFA. A good bet would say that the same will happen next week 
when the 1990 Beaux Arts Ball hits CFA.
community’s perception of CMU. 
Braswell feels that the donation 
will also help dispel the “notori­
ous reputation” the Ball has on 
campus.
The Beaux Arts Ball has tradi­
tionally been held in the spring 
semester. The 1960 Ball was as 
late as April 30. This year’s date 
was chosen to fall during a “lull” 
in campus events, and won’t con­
flict with Carnival or Spring 
Break. Also given consideration
were scheduled events in Kresge 
Theater. The music department 
will be using the Alumni Concert 
Hall, a fact which Beaux Arts 
planners didn’t learn until finals 
last semester. Committees will 
work around the events in the 
hall while decorating.
Basically, the decorating idea 
is to transform CFA into some­
thing else, whether the final prod­
uct be explicitly related to, or 
merely reflect the theme. For A
Night in Spain (1931) the lower 
foyer of CFA was transformed into 
a grand medieval castle. The walls 
were decorated with faux stone 
and lavish drapes covered in a 
stately flur de lys motif. Decora­
tions have attempted to recreate 
specific places, such as Russia 
(1927Revels ofthe Russians), Bali 
(1948 The Balinese Ball) and even 
Mars (1933A?i Evening on Mars).
This year’s decorations commit-: 
tee didn’t feel bound to any tradi-
tions.
One reason is that in recent 
history the Balls “have been so 
far apart ... that no one really 
remembers,” says Mogul, “[if ; 
anything the tradition was] first' 
floor dancing, second floor alco­
hol, third floor drugs and fourth .. 
floor sex.” Obviously things won’t' 
be quite like that this year.
One thing that has remained 
consistant throughout the Ball’s 
continued on page L2
Steve Volan/Tartan file photo
Above: Several costumed party-goers wait for the band to come out onto the stage during the 1985 Beaux Arts Ball. At the 
1990 Beaux Arts Ball, there will be 17 different bands playing.
Left: A couple of the party-goers enjoy themselves at the 1985 Beaux Arts Ball as the rest of the party continues.
ÌAE Brother chosen from 200 candidates
Fred Goff and little 
brother Steven Ross 
go at each other in a 
Saturday football 
game.
OP ?QEÌC]BJÌ QQ
ÏMU’s Fred Goff selected 
3ig Brother of the Year
y eric 84 mc^nallen
Wan Asst. Features Editor
Carnegie Mellon’s Big Brothers 
Big Sisters is an organization 
¦at brings joy and companion- 
¦ P to some of Pittsburgh’s less 
'rtunate children. Since its con- 
pPtion two years ago by then 
“Phomore, Fred Goff, the organi- 
stion has expanded in dignity 
respect.
Recently, CMU’s Big Brothers 
Big Sisters gained recogni- 
“n and funding from the Stu- 
ent Senate. Up until then, the 
'“gram existed as a separate 
E'f funded entity, getting sup-
port from fund raisers and contri­
butions from from other organi­
zations.
Carnegie Mellon’s Greeks have 
donated over four thousand dol­
lars raised from Greek Sing and 
bowl-a-thons. As Goff said in a 
previous interview, “The Greeks 
have been excellent!”
Two weeks ago the campus 
organization receivedyet another 
feather in its cap. Goff, founder 
and current president of Carne­
gie Mellon’s Big Brothers and Big 
Sisters, was elected Big Brother 
of the Year for the Greater Pitts­
burgh Area. Goff was selected for 
this honor from out of over two
hundred matched pairs.
The organization currently 
consists of around eighteen pairs 
as Goff explained, “with the cur­
rent funding that’s about all we 
can support.”
In a few weeks Big Brothers 
and Big Sisters will have a public­
ity drive to recruit new members 
to replace those who have dropped 
out or who are graduating.
If you are interested in Carnegie 
Mellon’s Big Brothers and Big 
Sisters program you can get more 
information by calling Fred Goff 
at 521-2413 or Tom Tomkins at 
621-6100.Thomas Nichols/Tartan Photo Editor

---------------------------------------------------

What's up with THE THISTLE?
• SENIOR PORTRAITS: Only three days left. Portraits taken in 
Skibo Room 45. Sign-up outside Skibo Room 46A. Join your classmates 
and have your portrait taken!
“David Docktor/Tartan photographe
Gloria Smith 
ABM Employee
“I don’t think it’s a cruel pun-1 
ishment. I think they should do I 
it to all [molesters of] children j 
and old women.”
L2 The Tartan • Carnegie Mellon • 6 February 1990
The Beaux Arts Ball has been through many changes over the years
PHOTOGRAPHERS WANTED: Do you want to go to
exciting places, meet interesting people, and shootthem? Find out more 
at the next staff meeting-Wednesday @4:30 in Skibo Room 201.
ORDER A 1990 YEARBOOK: This year's ECNXHPS contains 
approx 300 pages; it will cover every aspect of CMU life. ECS ®DD. 
ECNXHPS sells for $27.00. See the order form in our other ad in section 
one, page three. „ «7 ~ O Funded by the Activities Fee
continued from page LI
history is the importance of cos­
tumes. The first Ball was in fact a 
Toga party, though pictures sug­
gest that people were free to in­
terpret Roman dress as they 
wished. This year there will be a 
contest judged by the Beaux Arts
committee chair. Again loose in­
terpretations are expected and 
encouraged. One might also ex­
pect the competition to be ex­
tremely tough.
In case your costume is giving 
you difficulty, here are some de­
tails from past Balls. The Mayan
Ball (1938) prompted a signifi­
cant number of attendees to in­
corporate body paint into their 
costumes. This act was aided and 
encouraged by the campus drug­
store, which stocked large sup­
plies of the paint. The 1954 com­
mittee encouraged costumes de-
Steve voian/ lartan Tile pnoto
L985 Beaux Arts Ball drew about 1300 people. Here, some of the decorations are visible from the second 
of CFA.
signed with variations of the color 
blue in mind. However, the com­
mittee was somewhat restrictive 
in stipulating that no one would 
be admitted wearing a costume 
“suggestive of the opposite sex.”
Costume judges haven’t always 
been as harsh. For example, the 
1931 contest was won by a group 
of architecture students. Each 
dressed as a skyscraper, they 
formed a miniature NYC skyline 
when standing together. Their 
success is only surprisingbecause 
the theme for that year’s Ball was 
A Night In Spain.
Not only have past balls elicited 
elaborate costumes, they have 
also generated exquisite pro­
grams, and in recent decades, 
posters. Tickets from the twen­
ties and thirties were printed on 
stiff, quality paper and folded in 
the fashion of greeting cards. 
Printed in fine ink were lists of 
the ball’s patrons, chaperones and 
committee members. The tickets 
also included a brief essay on the 
theme. Each ticket also featured 
a multi-colored illustration, such 
as Oriental paper lanterns for 
1924’s Festival of Lanterns.
Early committees also offered a 
wide array of services. According 
to a 1938 article in The Tartan, 
students should have had no 
reason not to attend the Mayan 
Ball as an installment plan for 
ticket purchase was available. 
Dates could be arranged by the 
ball’s “date bureau,” and the cos­
tume committee was ready with 
suggestions.
Coupling has been addressed 
other times as well, including 
1921. That year attendees were
Steve Volan/Tartan file p|.
The DJ for the 1985 Beaux Arts Ball puts on a new record while throng 
of people dance.
informed that “no men ... will be 
admitted without a girl.” The 
reason? This encouragement to 
dating was given in an effort to 
“give most of the girls a chance to 
come.” The 1954 Bal Bleu com­
mittee echoed these concerns 
when it was made known that 
“absolutely no stags” would be 
allowed to attend.
In 1926 it was decreed that 
“Engaged persons are not allowed 
to attend unless both parties are 
eligible.” Eligible meaning a stu­
dent, alumnus or faculty member 
of CFA. Originally the Ball was 
open to all students. However in 
1933 when the ball was reinstated
after being abolished by the St J 
dent Council, the present eligibj 
ity stipulations were putin effect!
Of course, Risorgimento ' 
have attenders from most al 
CMU colleges. And while thej 
won’t be a sacrifice at a pyramids 
temple (as occurred at 19381 
Mayan Ball) there will be a ton! 
entertainment, food and excitf 
ment. Finally a CMU all-nightj 
worth the effort.
CFA will be closed to everyoJ 
not involved in either setting J 
the Ball or music auditions a 
rehearsals from 6 pm Friday untg 
10 pm the following day when tlj 
Ball begins.
A Person’s Opinion
Several weeks ago, Gilfert 
Mihalich, a Westmoreland 
County judge, sent a man to 
prison for raping a young girl. 
In addition to the prison sen­
tence, the judge also recom­
mended that the rapist be cas­
trated before he is allowed 
parole.The judge claims that he 
wanted to make a statement 
against criminals of this na­
ture.
On the other hand,the 
constitution, states that no pris­
oner shall undergo, “cruel and 
unusual punishment.”
Many people think that cas­
tration is a cruel and unusual 
and no one should be sentenced 
in this manner. On the other 
hand, some people agree with 
the judge and they feel that 
rapists deserve this punishment.
So, we went out and asked 
several members of the campus 
community what they thought. 
Is castration a cruel and un­
usual punishment?
Michael Sanders 
Senior, H&SS
“No. Well, I wouldn’t want my 
balls cut off but then I wouldn’t 
rape a little girl 25 times either.”
Bryan Kearney 
Freshman, IM
“Yeah, I do. I think it’s a throw­
back to the days of cutting off a 
hand of a thief. It’s a cruel and 
unusual punishment.”
Sarah Grison 
Freshman, H&SS
“Yes, I think it’s unfair. You 
can’t go around cutting off whole 
body parts when we do something 
wrong. I don’t see how you can 
explain it’s morality. It’s a return 
to the Middle Ages.”
Michael Shea 
Sophomore, MCS
“No, the punishment should fit 
the crime. An arsonist should be 
burned at the stake, a murderer 
should be killed. I don’t even want 
to describe what should happen 
to a rapist, but castration is not so 
unusual. It’s a little harsh, but it 
works. If you cut off his [penis] 
he’s not going to [mess] around 
with any more six-year-olds. I 
mean, picture the six-year-old.”

---------------------------------------------------

The Tartan • Carnegie Mellon • 6 February 1990L3
Working at Instructional Technology can be fun and educational
Editor’s note: This feature will 
be a bi-monthly column, center­
ing on interesting jobs that stu­
dents at Carnegie Mellon hold. .
The atmosphere: The equip­
ment room of the Instructional 
Technology Department located 
in the basement of the Hunt Li­
brary. The room was large and 
filled with enough cables, VCRs, 
‘TVs, and projectors to support 
the audio-video needs of the en­
tire campus community. It took 
ine very little time to understand 
how critical the operation is to the 
campus and how dependent the 
operation is on student employ­
ees like junior Joe Messina.
“We run this place. I want you 
¡to print this because my boss is 
onna read this in the paper, 
here are about 25 students 
¡vorking here part time.” Hear­
ing Joe’s comment, I wondered 
i'vvhether I was entering foreign 
tftrritory. All that electronic equip­
ment ... and students were “run­
ning” the place.
i{' The Instructional Technology
WORKING STUDENTS
by Wendy Sherman
Department is located in the 
basement of Hunt Library and 
distributes audio/visual equip- 
mentfor classes and lectures. Lo­
cated in the basement are an 
image resource area for slides, 
video equipment, and the Apple 
Orchard, run jointly with Aca­
demic Computing.
On to the interview. Messina 
confided that although his job is 
fun, the glamour part of it is in the 
eye of the beholder. The idea of 
going on shoots, videotaping 
classes, hauling around expen­
sive equipment, and actually 
being able to connect the various 
interfaces on the equipment 
seemed impressive. So we were
off to a good start. Having been in 
“the business” Messina wasn’t the 
least bit tape recorder shy as he 
spoke into (and tested) the tape 
recorder (which, by the way, was 
provided by his department).
The discussion centered on the 
different types of job opportuni­
ties available within Instructional 
Technology, Messina’s involve­
ment, and his motivations for 
taking the job in the first place.
Messina admits he’s learned a 
lot since starting the job, “When I 
came here on my first day, they 
told me to take some PNC cables 
and some RCA cables for connec­
tions ... I had no idea how to do it.”
Since then he has done every­
thing from shooting around cam­
pus, setting up VCR, TV, and 
computer equipment to just 
“dumping off tape recorders.” 
Although much of his job is rou­
tine at this point, Messina has 
learned a great deal about vide­
otaping.
“This ishow I first learned about 
video and films,” said Messina, as 
we walked into the in-house stu­
dio (adjacent to the equipment 
room in the basement of Hunt 
Library) where a GSIA class on 
communications was currently 
being taped.
Although Messina’s initial mo­
tivation for taking the job four se­
mesters ago was “the money,” the 
job has turned into something 
much more than that. His inter­
est in videotaping has blossomed 
into a hobby. Messina is currently 
attending classes at the Pitts­
burgh Filmakers to learn more 
about videotaping.
Are there other benefits? “You 
get to meet professors while you’re 
taping classes and learn a lot. I 
was taping a business presenta­
tion class, and it was like I almost 
took the course.”
I thanked Messina for the in­
terview and left turning only once 
to see if a camera was following us 
around taping the interview.
Wendy Sherman is employed at 
the Financial Aid office, where 
she finds the time to write a bi­
monthly column.
Thomas Nichols/Tartan Photo Editor 
Junior Joe Messina sets up an overhead projector for a class.
Another American holiday passes by and no one really cares, anyway
Groundhog’s day has come and 
J^one. In truth, I do not feel that I 
;was sufficiently touched by this 
i festivity.
Oh, I know what you are think­
ing, “He is trying to write a satiri­
cal column and Groundhog’s Day 
i is an easy target, after all. Take a 
'traditional American holiday, 
irwrite some disparaging remarks 
".about it and get some cheap laughs 
aat the expense of the culture we 
^ave labored so long and gone so 
far to attain.”
Well, there is nothing of the 
port at work here. The problem is 
’-that I genuinely feel confused by 
this holiday. I mean, why get all 
worked up over the actions of a 
iingle groundhog?
Perhaps it is because the yearly 
i observation of a single burrowing 
! mammal seems to represent so 
! much to so many people that I 
; find myself at a loss. Let’s face it,
; after all is said and done, can we 
j truly believe that even the much 
^jaud'ed Punxutawney Phil (the 
official groundhog of Groundhog’s 
Day) is representative of ground­
hogs as a social group? 
in I know, the social strata of 
''•groundhog-hood is probably not 
•something most people spend 
nights thinking about, but con­
sider the following scenario: A 
group of hyper-intelligent, pan­
dimensional beings land on planet 
Earth.
According to their tradition, 
they are to observe the actions of 
single, special human being and 
to pattern their actions accord-
ALL SHE WANTS TO DO 
IS JAVI
by Javier Grillo-Marxuach
ingly. They performed this task 
two millenniums ago with sur­
prisingly good results and have 
decided to institute this as their 
bi-millennial tradition. In any 
event, the time for this ritual ap­
proaches, so our pan-dimensional 
beings hop on their late model 
pan-dimensional transporta- 
tional devices (the ones with the 
gun racks on the back window) 
and head for planet Earth.
In any case, the aliens are ex­
tremely di sturbed by th eir i nabil- 
ity to find beings comparable to 
the ones they observed two mil­
lenniums ago and they are forced 
to find a new exemplary role model 
by which to model their existence.
So, in their infinite, pan-dimen­
sional wisdom, they choose the 
individual who seems bestknown 
to the most people at the time of 
their visit.
Now, fast forward to the next 
millennium. Instead of a benign 
race of pan-dimensional beings 
who mold their behavior on the 
fair minded, almost zen-like phi­
losophy of love, understanding, 
and tolerance taught by the single
being th ey fi rst observed, our race . 
of pan-dimensional aliens is 
pran cing about, getting very large, 
peroxide blondebouffanthairdos, 
wearing loud sun dresses, driving 
their pan-dimensional travel 
vehicles while under the influ­
ence of alcohol, slapping police 
officers and marrying inconse­
quential members of pan-dimen- 
sional European royalty.
Yes, this may seem somewhat 
extreme, but is it any more pre­
posterous to think that deciding 
the fate of six weeks out of our 
lives based on themeanderings of 
some possibly misguided rodent 
is any more ridiculous than the 
idea of an alien race going on a 
Zsa Zsa kick? I think not.
Think about it, what if Punxut­
awney Phil is not the regular 
groundhog?
What if instead of conforming 
to a life of digging burrows in 
communal family groups, raising 
theyoung, playing and munching, 
on nuts, Punxutawney Phil is 
indeed some sort of whacked-out, 
existential groundhog bent on 
devising its own identity by tak­
ing on a series of seemingly mean­
ingless actions?
Ultimately I am not too worried 
about having to live in the shadow 
of a potential Jean-Paul Ground­
hog. What does worry me is the 
fact that slowly, the very signifi­
cance of Groundhog’s Day is 
changing before our very eyes.
Recently I heard a vicious rumor 
attributing the only reason 
Punxutawney Phil periodically
peers out of his hole to the locals, 
who, concerned with the tourist 
trade which surrounds their som- 
nambulant slot-dweller, chase the 
poor animal out of its burrow when 
the appropriate time is at hand. 
And isn’t that enough to drive any 
otherwise sensible groundhoginto 
a life of questioning and near 
psychotic, self-destructive intro­
spection?
If this rumor I have heard is 
true, it. would mean that an en­
tirely new subculture must be 
developing within the privileged 
few who take it upon themselves 
to chase the groundhog out of its 
hole. Eventually, Punxutawney 
Phil will find his way up to that 
great burrow in the sky (provided 
that after his ordeal, Punxut­
awney Phil still believes in these 
things).
The question then is this; what 
will happen to the men and women 
whose livelihood depended on 
their ability to chase the animal
out of its hole?
It is my guess that they would 
continue to celebrate Groundhog’s 
Day, and that year by year, new 
and more intense rituals would 
develop out of the already exist­
ing subculture of groundhog-chas­
ing. There is no doubt that even­
tually, these people would find a 
fresh, new groundhog to take the 
place of the original Punxutawney 
Phil, and that the individual 
quirks of this new protagonist 
would continue to re-define the 
holiday we now know as 
Groundhog’s Day is the inevitable 
outcome.
Ultimately, the whole subcul­
ture of Groundhog’s Day would 
become a mire of sub-cultures, all 
based on the inherent falsehood 
of keeping up a ritual which was 
initially a falsehood.
The ramifications of this are 
endless, as one charade begets 
the culture of those involved in 
making sure that their charade
looks to the outside world as a 
different charade meant to up­
hold the idea of an initial non­
existent charade. Some would 
refer to this as Hyper-reality.
I don’t.
I have just been informed that I 
have committed an egregious 
error in calling the festivity in 
question “Groundhog’s Day,” and 
that it is in fact popularly known 
as “Groundhog Day.” I can only be 
thankful that this error had been 
pointed out to me. I would hate to 
be one of the misguided many 
who spend the days leading up to 
the aforementioned holiday buy­
ing Hallmark cards and choco­
lates for their favorite ground­
hog.
One final question, what’s an­
other word for thesaurus?
Senior Staff writer Javier Grillo- 
Marxuach is a junior writing 
student who likes to take the day 
off and relax on Groundhog Day.
TELEGRAMCarnegie Tech 
Radio Club
Grab a rubber (stop)
Dossier 4 is coming (stop
I Will arrive NEXT WEEK
I February 13th
The day before Valentine's (stop)
I I
Codename: Crush (stop)
Codename: Crush (stop)
I Codename: Crush (stop)
I
Valentine’s Day 
Radio-Grams
Send up to 25 words to your friends 
back home (or wherever), 
free of charge.
Just send e-mail containing your message, your 
name, and the recipient’s address to 
ar99@andrew.cmu.edu. or contact Pete Skelly, 
x4274
Sponsored by your Activities Fee

---------------------------------------------------

echnical Writer
“Microsoft is an exciting place to be because you’re working for the industry leader in software. In a lot 
of ways, this place is like a college campus. Along with the dedication to work is a spirit of fun and creative 
release. Hey, nobody at Microsoft ever got chastised for wearing the wrong color shirt. You can forget about 
a dress code, and kiss those ties good-bye. The goal here is to perform not conform.”
Tom Isenherg, Technical "Writer 
Camegie-Mellon Class of’81
As a Systems Technical Writer you will create user-programmer manuals, quick 
reference manuals, and on-line systems for our systems products (OS/2, LAN Manager, 
Multimedia, Languages).
You must have demonstrated ability in the use of microcomputers and software, and 
experience with MS-DOS, XENIX, and programming languages (preferably C and Pascal 
languages). A bachelor’s degree and a practical background in Business, Communications, 
Computer Science, Journalism, or Technical Writing are essential
Our location in the Pacific Northwest, near Seattle, is one of the most diverse in the 
country—an area where the quality of life is high and exciting. Mountains for skiing, 
hiking, and climbing are close enough for day trips. Three spectacular national parks are 
within easy reach. The beautiful San Juan Islands are yours to explore by sailboat or ferry, 
car or bike. But don’t assume that Seattle people spend all their time outdoors. This is a 
young city, with a wealth of cultural and recreational opportunities, from live theater, ballet, 
opera, and symphony to football, basketball and baseball.
Microsoft will be interviewing on campus for Technical Writers on:
March 20,1990
See your Career Planning and Placement Office for more details.
Microsoft
We are an equal opportunity employer.

---------------------------------------------------

The Tartan • Carnegie Mellon • 6 February 1990LE
Schlumberger
Architect's Leap: One of the finer places to kill some time
pave (my boss at Hunt Library 
where I work as a circulation 
assistant, moving up. from lower 
circulation scum where I started) 
is convinced that I don’t exist 
outside of the library. He claims 
that I materialize every nightfrom 
the Chrono-synclastic Infundibu- 
lumjustin time for my shiftusing 
the ancient Celtic mysteries of Yo 
and Yo which are not to be con­
fused with the Oriental myster­
ies ofYing and Yang.
For those ofyou that don’t know, 
theChrono-synclasticInfundibu- 
]um, a place where the inhabi­
tants only exist as wave particles 
between the Sun and Betelegeuse, 
was discovered by Kurt Vonnegut 
Jr. and is further explained in his 
book The Sirens of Titan. Dave is 
a KVJ fan, but that’s beside the 
point.
The truth is that I’m a minor 
deity of Yo, which is one of those 
\ backwater dimensions that is 
populated by reformed Irish 
Druids who worship what some 
would call a yo-yo. We prefer to 
think of it as the cosmic meaning 
to life, the beginning and end to 
all things; and the only link to a 
home dimension that, aside from 
its peaceful surrounding and large 
green shamrocks, is quite boring. 
You may have seen me in the 
library, I’m the one playing with 
the yo-yo while shelving books 
and going in and out of phase.
Somehow, the mysteries of Yo 
and Yo have a profound effect on
HIT AND MYTH
by Eric J. McAnallen
evening supervisors. Since I 
started the evening shift four 
semesters ago, I’ve gone through 
four supervisors. It all starts with 
the slow deterioration of their 
seriousness, followed by a strong 
uncontrollable desire to work day­
light or to resign and work some­
where else.
Anyway, I had j.ust material­
ized in the library when Dave, 
who by the way has already found 
another job far away from me, 
and the new lower circulation 
scum were discussing the “Crime 
and Punishment” report. They 
were quite amazed that anyone 
would throw large blunt objects 
down the infamous stairwell in 
Wean known as Architect’s Leap. 
So I, being the ever observant 
servant to the campus commu­
nity that I am, decided to look 
further into the peculiar activi­
ties of Architect’s Leap.
Immediately I grabbed my 
trusty yo-yo, still warm from the 
last materialization, but Dave 
insisted that I stick around and 
do my job before traipsing off
across the campus to investigate 
yet another myth.
So after two hours of shelving 
three carts, straightening out all 
four floors, revising two carts, 
selling four hundred copy cards, 
and checking out three thousand 
books to two graduate students 
doing research on the effects of 
bulldozers on the architecture of 
Frank Lloyd Wright, I called upon 
the attributes of Yo that were 
mine to command: the ability to 
dematerialize and materialize at 
will and the power to distinguish 
between fact and fiction, my life 
falling mostly within the latter.
I materialized on the fifth floor 
of Wean near the dreaded Intro to 
Computing rooms and proceeded 
to make my way towards the 
stairs.
Unfortunately, class was just 
letting out and I was swept away 
by five thousand relieved fresh­
men. Eventually, I managed to 
fight my way through the crowd 
and through the correct door.
The stairwell was just like any 
other in Wean, except for the 
magical chalk outline of a body at 
the very bottom. It is magical 
because it periodically disappears 
and reappears.
The stairwell gets its name from 
an incident that happened many 
many years ago. One night an 
architorture (a portmanteau word 
derived from the combination of 
architecture and torture to show 
the relationship of the CMU Archi­
tecture Department to the Span­
ish Inquisition) student broke into 
Wean Hall.
Granted, this is no big feat. After 
all, the doors are never locked. 
While in Wean Hall, the student, 
in a fit of depression, wrote a 
suicide note, left it where his 
friends in Intro to Computing 
could find it, then did the un­
speakable.
For those of you who don’t know 
what the unspeakable is, I shall 
speak of it. The student drew a 
chalk line at the bottom of the
stairwell and lay in wait for his 
friends, hoping all the time that 
his little prank would scare the 
holy bejeebees out of his friends 
and cheer him up some.
His friends, however, were not 
amused. They took him to the top 
of Wean and threatened to fill the 
chalk line with his form. Fortu­
nately, they decided that this was 
cruel and unusual punishment, 
so they threw his clothes, back­
pack and any other possessions 
down the stairwell. This of course 
set off a campus wide quest for
the most original object to be flung 
down the hallowed depths of 
Architect’s Leap.
All of this is recounted on a 
shiny brass plaque at the bottom 
of the stairwell. Unfortunately, 
this too mysteriously appears and 
disappears. So don’t be disap­
pointed if it is not there.
Eric McAnallen is a junior crea­
tive writing major and assistant 
features editor of The Tartan who 
mysteriously disappears when his 
editor starts looking for him.
Tartan file photo
In 1982, CMU police started using more effective means of enforcing the parking laws on campus. 
Actually, a storm caused the tree to fall on the cars.
Chicken McNuggets invade the Soviet Union
The past few months have her­
alded a remarkable change in 
world political thinking. Nations 
have finally decided to look past 
their petty differences and work 
for a better worldwide commu­
nity.
This is evident in the felling of 
the Berlin Wall, the abolition of 
Communist parties in many 
Eastern Bloc countries, and the 
United States’ invasion of a small, 
Central American country.
I feel that all'these changes will 
seem minor to future historians 
when overshadowed by the much 
larger upheaval which has re­
cently occurred.
I am talking, of course, about 
the announcement that a 
McDonald’s has just been opened 
in Moscow this past Wednesday. 
Finally, the oppressed people of 
the Soviet Union will be able to 
enjoy some of the most basic fruits 
of our decadent, Western, capi­
talistic society.
Just imagine the electric thrill 
they will feel, walking under those 
golden arches and into the protec­
tive womb of franchised democ­
racy.
JASON SPEAKS
by Jason Lee Smith
Think of their joy, after years of 
deprivation, to finally be able to 
utter the phrase, “Gimme a Big 
Mac, large fries and a medium 
Coke,” a phrase which has gradu­
ally become synonymous with po­
litical freedom the world over.
And the Moscovites won’t be 
getting just any McDonald’s ei­
ther. I hear tell that it is the 
largest fast food joint in the world.
With the additional expense 
that the size would entail, you 
would think that the McDonald’s 
corporation would take it out on 
the consumer by raising the prices 
of its fast food.
Not so. McDonald’s seems to 
feel that the Russian proletariat 
has led such a hard life, what 
with be :ng denied the pleasures
of preprocessed hamburgers, 
greasy fries, pressed chicken parts 
and everything, that they should 
not be forced to pay an outra­
geous price for a hamburger. The 
price will be, actually, very rea­
sonable—only about three hour’s 
salary for one hamburger.
While we, in the West, may 
think this a bit steep, our Russian 
comrades will, no doubt, be will­
ing to pay the extra rubles for 
such a decadent pleasure. In fact, 
I would venture to guess that most 
oftheMoscow citizenry have been 
salting their money away for years 
waiting for just such an occurance 
as the opening of the first 
McDonald’s.
I am a pen-pal with a Russian 
novelist with high governmental 
connections in the Kremlin and a 
cousin in the KGB. And for many 
months he has talked of nothing 
else but the coming of the 
McDonald’s.
He has even outlined a novel he 
intends to write, which revolves 
around the resturaunt. It is about 
Antonia, the daughter of a wealthy 
official in the Russian automobile 
industry, who falls in love with
Ivan, the handsome yet arrogant 
cashier at the local McDonald’s.
She loves him in spite of the fact 
that he is already in love with 
Natalia, the auburn-haired 
Trotskyite exiled to Bulgaria for 
attempting to cook french fries in 
Red Square.
In fairness to my friend, though, 
I should not reveal too much of 
the plot, suffice it to say that 
Chicken McNuggets figure heav­
ily as a symbol for death.
The new McDonald’s will cause 
quite a stir in Russia, and in my 
opinion, no little good will come 
from it. However, I can’t help but 
feel that we in the West are being 
a little greedy.
If the Soviet Union wants 
McDonald’s restaurants so badly, 
I see nothing wrong with giving 
her some of ours.
In fact, I feel that transporting 
all of our McDonald’s eastward 
would benefit both our nations — 
preferably to Siberia.
Jason Lee Smith is a freshman 
in CIT who wishes to single- 
handedly transport all of our 
excess McDonald's to the USSR.
Graduate Fellowships 
for Women in Science 
and Engineering
We are pleased to announce that The Catholic 
University of America has been selected as an 
original recipient of one of the initial grants of 
the Claire Booth Luce Fund, a program of 
The Henry Luce Foundation.
Three two-year graduate fellowships for women 
are offered in science (biology, chemistry, or 
physics) and engineering. Each of the three 
women selected will receive approximately 
$23,000 a year beginning in fall 1990.
Applicants, who must be U.S. citizens, should submit 
transcripts, GRE scores, a one-page letter of professional 
intent, and letters from two academic referees by March 
1,1990, to:
The Coordinator of Graduate Student Services 
300 McMahon Hall, Dept. W 
lis GETiaryn CFyAsotyTx ab fcsoynE
Washington, D.C. 20064
CUA
ENGINEERS
OVERSEAS
• BATAB HOTEL $369 .AQUAMARINA
¦TERRAMAR $449 -MARGARITA
•INTER-CONTINENTAL $535
Complete Fiesta Break Vacation Includes: Round-Trip Air; Airport Transfers 
in Cancún; 7 Nites Choice Hotel; Complete Sport & Social Activity Program; 
Discounts for Shopping, Dining, Entertainment-, Water Sports; Free Cover to 
Popular Clubs; Hotel Taxes; Many More Extras!!
$489
$399
TRAVEL FREE * TRAVEL FREE * TRAVEL FREE 
FORM YOUR OWN GROUP & GET 1 FREE TRIP FOR EACH 20 PAID
CALL NOW FOR THE BEST VALUE IN 
SPRING BREAK VACATIONS!!! 
LAURA BIELANOWSKI (412) 621-7015
Birthright
EMERGENCY PREGNANCY SUPPORTannounces the opening of a New Crisis Pregnancy Center at 201 St. Craig Street Phone 621-1988
•Free pregnancy testing• Referrals to communityresources• Confidential counseling are pregnant and didn’t 
to be, we can help you.
DON'Ti
-wear a suit and tie 
-shuffle papers and answer 
phones
-sit at a desk all day
OPENINGS FOR 
PERMANENT
POSITIONS
For more information, please contact:
,T'bcNByPRyPS-thyPt*h-wt*b
Recruiting Coordinator
2707 North Loop West, Suite 1090
Houston, Texas 77008
(713) 863-9673 (in Texas)
800-222-1587 (outside Texas)
Exceptional people. Exceptional technology. Worldwide
DO:
-live In foreign countries 
-work outdoors 
-take charge 
-make decisions 
-face many challenges 
-bear heavy responsibility 
-work long hours 
-operate sophisticated elec­
tronic equipment 
-record Information on oil and 
gas wells
-interpret that Information
ENJOY:
-being their own boss
h'-, OwB -, twh uwP 
y’yP3wty S Bch -h 
Twcb5 By uwP 3wcL
Schlumberger, the world leader 
In Wireline Well Logging has 
immediate career opportunities 
Overseas for individuals with 
an M.S. or B.S. degree In 
E.E., M.E., Physic* or the 
Geo-Sciences, excellent 
scholastic record, hands-on 
aptitude and 0-3 years work 
experience.

---------------------------------------------------

L6The Tartan • Carnegie Mellon • 6 February 1990
Pennsylvania Bill encounters troubles in the Atlantic Ocean
Editor’s note ¡Pennsylvania Bill 
is a fictional beer connoisseur 
travelling around the world, re­
viewing beers from various coun­
tries.
So I found out that the boat I 
was on was an Irish schooner, but 
that’s about it. The captain, Blar­
ney O’Pec wouldn’t tell me the 
purpose of the ship, but I think it 
has something to do with Medie­
val architecture.
It’s been sort of a boring trip. I 
was forced to read some selec­
tions from the ship’s library: The 
Bright Side of Prison Life, Who’s 
Who in Baton twirling, Heroic 
Virgins, Carnivorous Butterflies, 
and Practical Candleburning.
(Editor’s note: the aforemen­
tioned books are actual books.)
But anyway, I usually spent 
the evenings sitting around in 
the galley with Blarney, eating 
popcorn with Tabasco sauce and 
Cajun seasoning. So we would sit 
around in pools of our own sweat 
and swill beer.
As the ship rocked, the bowl of 
popcorn slid back and forth be­
tween us like a bowl of Life cereal. 
When it wasn’t in front of me, I 
would take a swig of his home­
made brew.
“So laddie, are you enjoying the 
brew?” said Blarney this morn-
AROUND THE WORLD 
IN EIGHTY BEERS
by William Burky
ing.
“Considering it’s the only thing 
you have to drink on this boat, I 
don’t have too much choice,” I 
said.
’’Well, me boy, since the trip’s 
about done, I suppose we could 
bring out the good stuff,” said 
Blarney as he reached into the 
Frigidaire.
He gave me a bottle of Harp.
I opened it up with my handy 
Activities Board bottle opener and 
took a whiff.
“Smells like beer,“ I said.
“Tastes like one too.”
“It’s got a certain twang to it.”
“Yeah, it‘s a pretty fizzy beer 
that really tickles the hair of your 
tongue.”
“Is this made around here?” I 
asked.
“What, in the Atlantic? No, it’s 
a lager brewed in Dundalk Ire­
land.”
“Oh, I didn’t even realize it was 
a lager. It’s not very heavy. It 
doesn’t have much of an after­
taste either.”
“That’s just because this is your 
first one.”
Blarney was right. After the 
first beer, I started to sense a 
growing aftertaste which re­
minded me of the bad, sour grape­
fruit I ate in a K-mart in Toledo.
“So what did you say you did on 
this boat?” I asked, hoping Blar­
ney wouldn’t notice the change of 
subject.
Before receiving an answer, a 
crewman burst in crying, “Whale, 
a whale!!”
I didn’t understand what the 
excitement was, after all, we were 
in an ocean. Blarney rushed to 
the deck, and I quickly followed, 
after picking a piece of popcorn 
out of my teeth and tightening 
the laces on my Reeboks.
As I sauntered onto the deck, I 
saw Blarney sighting in on a whale 
(I think it was a killer blue sperm 
whale) with a spear gun. I was 
enraged; How could anyone want 
to hurt such a big, blue animal?
I bodychecked Blarney into the 
railing of the boat and the spear- 
gun was knocked to the floor. I 
performed a triple backflip over 
Blarney’s head, but unfortunately 
I landed on the captain’s cat. I
slipped on the entrails and wound 
up in a heap by Blarney’s feet.
He drew a pistol on me.
I was finished!
Suddenly, the boiler room ex­
ploded!
Blarney was thrown free of the 
boat, chewed up by the killer 
sperm whale, shot upward from 
out of the whale’s spout, and diced 
up by the rotors of a stray traffic 
helicopter.
I was also thrown from the boat, 
but I landed on the whale's back.
Luckily I had a saddle with me.
We galloped for many days 
across the ocean, but one day Herb 
(the whale) decided to dive. I was 
a goner! I passed out after breath­
ing in 5 gallons of water.
I woke on a beautiful, sunny 
shore. Maybe I was in heaven. As 
I focused my eyes, I noticed a 
hermit crab staringback at me. It 
looked just like Pennsylvania, my 
long dead pet. It must be heaven!
Then it pinched me on the nose. 
Oh well. It walked away towards
some strange reddish black stone 
Then, it seemed to try to eat it. 
crawled closer and pulled ojJ 
magnifying glass.
I couldn’t believe my eyes! I wasi 
peering at a petrified glob 0f| 
ketchup! Could I really be back 
the trail of the long lost Whit3j 
Burger?
North Dakota, the hermit crab i 
started crawling away, so j 
crawled after him, in case he^ 
might lead me to even more clues1 
Unfortunately, after following 
him on my hands and knees 
through 2 miles of underbrush 
and 5 miles of volcanic rock, a 
boot came down and smashed 
North Dakota into oblivion.
My eyes slowly moved up this' 
figure, clad in polyester slacks, a 
Hawaiian shirt and a fish tie. My 
Gods, no! It was Johann River, 
dam, and he spoke in that nasally 
Italian accent...
“Now I have you just where I* 
want you.”
This feature is provided as a 
service to those members of tM 
campus community who are of 
legal drinking age and enjoy 
drinking beer in a responsible fashion.
William Burky is the Calender 
Editor who enjoys riding whales1, bareback or otherwise.A Slice of Life ends with keynote speaker Jeffrey Zaslow
By KEVIN BARNEY
Tartan Features Editor 
& RUSS SELIGMAN
Tartan Contributing Editor
“[A Slice of Life] was very suc­
cessful. I think that the students 
felt that they gained something. 
It will happen again in some form 
in the future,” said Deborah Mall, 
associate director of the Career 
Center.
More than 85 seniors attended 
the program, which included 
seminars from a wide range of 
areas (see sidebar) and a dinner 
featuring keynote speaker Jeffrey 
Zaslow.
The program started with 11 
one-hour seminars, all presented
by Carnegie Mellon alumni, from 
which the student could choose 
four to attend.
The topics presented included 
starting your own business, an 
introduction to stocks and invest­
ing, etiquette and corporate cul­
ture, constructing resumés and 
preparing for interviews, getting 
an agent, and managing 
dual-career couples.
Students filled out evaluations 
at the end of individual sessions 
and at the end of the day were 
asked to evaluate the program as 
a whole.
According to Mall, who tallied 
the evaluations, the most enjoyed 
seminars were Money Manage­
ment and Assertiveness and Com-
munication.
The highlight of the program 
was keynote speaker Jeffrey 
Zaslow (HS’80), a syndicated Chi­
cago Sun-Times columnist and 
former Tartan editor-in-chief.
In his address, Zaslow read and 
answered letters from his daily 
column. He also talked about his 
advisory board of average Ameri­
can ‘Joes’ — the group of people 
with whom Zaslow consults when 
he needs further advice for his 
column.
During dinner, the presenters 
sat at tables with the students 
which, according to participant 
Erol Caglarcan, a senior physics 
major, was good because, “we were 
able to talk further about their
presentations and we could also 
discuss ‘the real world’ with the 
presenters whose seminars we 
could not attend.”
Caglarcan also said, “It was use­
ful. Some things I knew, some 
things I didn’t. [The speakers] 
gave their own views and opin­
ions based on their experiences.” 
He added thathe would “enthusi­
astically” recommend the pro­
gram to future seniors.
Adam Goldsmith also contrib­
uted to this article.
hrV lV4fa1el 1aU srVfe IeVlVasVelkkk
Money Management 
Assertiveness & Communication 
Entrepreneurship 
Investment Primer
Investing for Beginners 
Taxes
Etiquette and Corporate Culture 
Marketing Yourself 
Services and Consumerism 
Getting an Agent 
Dual Career Couples
Bruce D. Garrett, Sr. UP '85
Samuel D. Deep IM '64
Hans W. Lange E ’52
Michael T. Ball
Thomas R. Moore UP '82
James E. Yanni IA '66
Deborah Ann Moses UP '82
Robert E. Gleeson
Donald Van Ollefen A ’77
Buddy Hobart HS ’81
Peter Cullen HS ’79 S ’85
Diane Wright
Janet L. Vukotich E ’72
Charles J. Vukotich S '11 UP 74
« ---------------------------Coupon 
FOUR STAR® 683-0400 
P1ZZA OAKLAND
Coupon 
FOUR STAR® 683-0400 
_ OAKLAND
Coupon.
OLI
SQIIA1
P NE-tt-tR ,hP*hyR-y, E-tt-tR T*PyyP,
ABILITY . I£IN^|
PERFORMANCE 
PARALLELISM ? FAULT TOLER 
SQL DATABASE * RISC 
HIGH PROFITABILITY * i
OL 
INTE< 
PROF
P RICI 
OLTP
PANDABILf"
Together, these words define 
a powerful strategy that is 
helping Tandem Computers 
shape the future. For new 
grads, that means the hottest 
career opportunities around.
In the technical arena, you’ll 
find yourself involved in 
important projects right away. 
Like applying RISC to future 
fault-tolerant UNIX* systems, 
focusing on SQL database 
technology, and creating an 
open application develop­
ment environment.
Tandem expects a lot of our 
new grads. And we give a lot 
back. Find out more when 
Tandem comes to campus.
6Sl
On Campus 
Interviews:
February 15
Schedule for:
• Technical/Professional 
Writing
For more information, con­
tact your Placement Center. 
We are an equal opportunity 
employer m/f/h/v.
j» TANDEM
¦ ^ Where you can make a difference.
College Relations. Tandem Computers Incorporated 
10600 Ridgcview Court, MS229-17. Cupertino, CA 95014-070i
'I'NIX is a rcgi.Mcrcd trademark of AT&T.
TWO 10" ONE 
ITEM PIZZAS 
(DOUBLEZZ)
FOUR STAR® 683-04001 
PIZZA OAKLAND I
STUDENT SPECIAL 
10" PIZZA 
w/ CHEESE
$6" ! S2nlv I Only99
Only
One Coupon Per Order 
Campus Housing Only 
Expires 2128/90
Only
One Coupon Per Order 
Campus Housing Only 
Expires 2/28190
*1off
ANY
PIZZA
One Coupon Per Order | 
Campus Housing Only [i 
Exp ires 2 /28 / 90 I
Pennsylvania governor's ScfiooCfor the, Sciences
Undergraduate summer employment at CMU will be available 
with the Pennsylvania Governor's School for the Sciences. The 
PGSS is a five-week summer school for very talented high school 
students from Pennsylvania. Teaching Assistant/Counselor 
appointments will be available for biology, chemistry, and physics 
laboratories, as well as tutorial duties In computer science and 
mathematics.
Preference will be given to upper-level, scholastically sound 
applicants. You will be expected to simultaneously serve as 
dormitory counselors and to live In the same dormitory as the 
PGSS students, see that the PGSS disciplinary rules are adhered 
to, provide tutorial help in the academic program, and conduct 
social activities.
Stipend for five-and-one-half week period: $1000-$ 1400 
(Depending on Experience)
Free room and board.
School is in session from July 1 to August 4.
Counselor duties begin June 27, end August 4.
Applications for an Interview available In DH 2201,
For further Info, contact Gerry Rensko, Ext. 6669. 
Application deadline: March 2,1990.

---------------------------------------------------

WMTäsrnr?
uaiofiws IS léAvez See m OHBV-OWAVOrj vorne ut.m?‘iSUtiMR
x M// frf
1/7 £//£<*' '¦¡Mfc,fr „ w.mFdj wiico" y (Ims vi
wm/fu? nx&et/AHPOSVEVE . WBAKBB&N‘ / 
, tN-VAPBP'(
/ orvt?HE'¿TAKEN REFUOE IN A ¦ R5UOIOVâJ P.'QäPt
UBWKY*HOKm pag3. a mo:ibmics^BRcs dPIlJ^aSB^d^iK» cdes « Ccmics »Comics » Ccmics ¦ Carries ¦ Ccmics ¦ Ccmics « Ccrm 
Panics«Ccmics »Conos»Ccmics«Ccmics ¦ Ccmics»Ccmics*O dcs = Ccmics «»Gcmics “ Ccrracs » Ccmics * Ccmics “ Ccmics « Ccmk 
Zarrias ¦ Ccmics «Ccmics«Ccmics»Ccmics ¦ Ccmics«Ccmics»G ics » Ccrracs »Ccmics ¦ Ccmics»Ccmics»Ccmics ¦ Ccmics» Ccmk Ccmics ° Ccmics »Comics»Ccmics»Ccmics» Ccmics»Ccmics * O ács * Ccmics «Ccmics » Ccmics » Ccmics » Ccmics ¦ Ccmics » Ccmk 
Panics»Ccmics «Ccmics«Ccmks»Ccmics»Ccmics«Cbmks»G ács* Ccmics «Comics« Ccmics»Ccmks«Ccmks ¦ Ccmics« Ccmk 3cmics»Ccmics »Comics8 Ccmics » Ccmics«Ccmics«Ccmics*G dcs 3 Ccmics »Ccmics » Ccmics ¦ Ccmics * Ccmics » Ccmics * Ccmk"V-g-Y-'W: w Orare » rW^W: « r>rr-rW: n » r^Wr « Í-,
WHATbOVT.
lralPrk-O¡reorderjfjimrvß.
691g106O0K ?
THE PROCONSUL 6575 A CALL.OU NO! XCUR 
MOMS COMING . BACK! ,
PSST, CALV\N / 
IS TUE COAST 
CLEAR? .
I WAS INSPECTING THE AFRAID INVASION FORCE, SIR. OF THAT. HE'SWORRIEP WHAT'S HE ABOUT THEIR DOING NOW UNIFORMS^^
THEIR THEY'RE JUNGL5 ~UNIFORMS? STYLE CAMOUFLAGE, HJHOT5 SIR. TUB VICE PRESTWRONG ÍW THINKS THEY'REWITH INAPPROPRIATE FORTHEM*. URBAN COMBAT.
THERE SUt 
IS.’ STM 
IN TUE BOX, 
GUIS.' KEEP 
GM1ET.'
UOBBES, 'ÍOO’RE 
A GENIUS.'fMi ce ned uig2NwsB 
okky urna BUILDINGS? ON THEM?
I muTRY,SIR!
MR DUKE ? m/5 WEIL.HË5 
IS THE PRESIDENT' MAKJN'A 
HOWS PANNY HELLUVA 
MAKING OUT?. IMPRESSION, 
^ 7 5IR'UE1VWMS 
GOING ON 
OJT TUES.7
TR«HSVK-fcïlEK
THE ONLY PROBLEM IS THEY'RE STILL HERE.THE WHOLE REASON I CAME DOWN HERE WAS TO REASSURE OUR. FRJEND’S THAT THIS MAS A SHORT­TERM, ONE-TIME INTERVENTION!
VMM m '(OVJ imSHOGWFf TUEJA IMTO?
iarD,OtI) weil, i d\dnt
WW TUEfATO 
V BE OHUAPP'i...
SO LONG, \'NUMDO'(OU 
WPUCMES.' ) MEM4? WE’RE A NOT GOING^ TT V ANsm...
50H0UJ GOOD! THEYARE THE LOOKED TAN,TROOPS, RESTEP, NOT.MR. VICE AT ALL LIKEPRESIDENT? THEY'D BEEM \ IN AN ¡NVA- ¦mrnjvi SION!
RIGHT. ESPECIALLY IF YOU PONT 5PEAK A100PD OF LATIN'
ITS NOT EASY CARRYING A MESSAGE LIKE THAT All OVER LATIN AMERICA-TO COUNTRIES LIKE... LIKE... WHAT'S THAT ONE WITH THE BEACHES *
WHATEVER
WORMS.
TRqN5r¦Wii]iLJ -RlFifcR.
but Non CW CALVIN.' 
look: i WTCARM TWVNSH06- MKtiyiHtoUQI RIFIED HCWSE/™EM •' J our/ our/
PRESIDENT VARGAS? PRO­CONSUL DUKE HERE' LI5TEN, I GOT DANOUAYLE HERE SITTING IN MY OFFICE ¦ ¦.
HE'S MADE A HECK OF AN EFFORT TO GET DOWN HERE. AND I THINK MORE OF YOU GUYS SHOULP BE HEARING -ZL*. HIM OUT... _
WEIL HOM, lOU
,Ism 1ou5 mI
wofcw AficUT 
ME GETTING IN 
TRCWBLE MS 
A MDRE.
NUP. SEE, I M&0ETUESE 
WPLlCKTtS OF MMSELF 
WAD WEY WERE. TUE ONES
Wlto WERE ----------------vBAD, NOT J~( UH HUH... T 
^ me- r-j J
¿UHAT IF HE FLEW DOWN TO BOGOTA- UNOFFICIALLY, OF COURSE - AND EXPLAIN,EP OUR POSITION-?... RIGHT... RIGHT...UH-HUH...I SEE...
HE'S AFRAID DAMN... YOUlL BE OKAY, LET'SDRAGGED FROM TRY THEYOUR UMO AND PRESIDENT BEATEN WITH OF PUERTO PIPES. RICO'__ 
WEIL TUERE! 'lOVJ GOT ME IN TROV)B\£ 
ONE LAST TIN\E. I UOPE WR£ WtW.
XWRE SURE 100 
DOHT WNAT TO 
PUT US ON 
~fOJR DADS 
DINNER PLATC
ton\ght befo«. 
WE GO? r-r,
OK. so WE DIDN’T^ 
LEARN ANH BIG 
LESSON. SUE ME.
LOOK. PRESIDENT ARIAS, I APPRECIATE YOUR POSITION, BUT COME ON, THE INVASION WASNT DANNY QUAYLE'S CALL! NOTHING IS! WHY TAKE IT OUT ON H/M*
YtaL, UOBBES, I GUESS WE LEARNED A VALUABLE. 
LESSON FROM TUIS• p:krynETyFvV MESS. ,__y
BECAUSE THE ENOUGH? NATIONS OF THIS ENOUGH REGION HAVE HAD >V ENOUGH, MR. WHAT? jdU PROCCmt. /
IN 1901, THE U.S. SENT TROOPS TO COLOMBIA, IN 1902. TO PANAMA,IN 1903, HONDURAS, DOMINICAN REPUBLIC AND PANAMA; IN 1904, DOMINICAN REPUBLIC ANP PANA­MA; 1906, CUBA; 1907, HONDURAS, mNICARAGUAi 1911. HONPUMS.I9I2-
LIVE AND DON'T LEARN, TUATS US.BAD LUCK. HE'S A HISTORY NUT.
LET ME SEE lOUR NWTTENSÍ THERE, LOOK.' FLECKS OF BARK. PIECES OF GRAVEL, SPOTS OF MUD, AND GRANULES OF ICE.' TUAT WAS YOUR SNOWBALL, AILRIGUT.'
LOOK, PRESIDENT GARCIA PEREZ, YOU'VE GOT TO TAKE THE LONG VIEW HERE! SOONER OR LATER, BUSH 15 GONNA ,-rr5BNDOUAYLE '----^ Æ.WTOPERU S WHETHER (YOUUKE MÜiTOR IrjfNOT! IJp*
(JL'HY NOT JUST GET IT OVER UllTH? WHAT?...UH-HUH... RIGHT...HO 10 WOULD THAT WORK ? UH-HUH... OKAY, LET ME FLY IT BY HIM.
HE SAYS YOU CAN COME IF YOU SUP ACROSS THE BOLIVIAN BOR­DER, DONA DISGUISE AND RIDE BY BURRO 250 MILES 70 A REMOTE MONASTERY OUTSIDEOF CUZCO, WHERE YOU ____WOULD MEET WITH A RANKING GOVERN- /MENT OFFICIAL. \tfT~
A RANKING Aicn^OFF in A! 2 ALeKT¿i/OW... ' THE MONKS.THAT'S TUE PROBLEM W\TU HAVING A SIGNATURE. STÍLE;.
VXÍ RE DARN LUCKX I DIDNY get ^ TUAT SHOY4- ¿ BLOWER FCft CHRISTMAS !
GARCIA PEREZ SAYS HE CAN COME AS LONG AS HE'S WILLING TO PUT ON A DISGUISE AND RIDE A DONKEY THROUGH THE ANDES FOR A SECRETMEET AT A ----^MONASTERY, f
WERE YOU ABLE TO OPEN ANY DOORS FORTHE VEEP, SIR?
W MISSED
Sí hm KWH/ 
THBpreH'
DANNY'S GAME, BUT HE'S STILL- GOTTA R.UN TT BY THE BIG GUY
AW. SIR'I ALREADY GOT MY PIS' 
s. GUISE'
DANNY,COMEHOME.
Calvin and Hobbes is a daily feature in the Pittsburgh Press.Doonesbury is a daily feature in the Pittsburgh Post Gazette.

---------------------------------------------------

NDERCOVER
byCAKyLM
i?rfiocrac
f Caer -rwe
Te> n ¿>0^6. 
on- t3«iW*rs
\ti CTQSTOME. ///
¿SK»gr6AHe£> p*£: ^ 
-POWfAeUTHfc N"!^£ 0
_ STTHay’Se piN\rV=> i
--rnev^ejeeM& | 
•smeu. - a u t=e-''V«Jrnesr^
mnglumoFREE06W-LOV1MG GERMANS 
grTEhR DOWM THE WALLl
THE 5H0U/ PlwlSHEP AMP JASrfR juPlTEp 
BRUSHED PAST /ME udp aeo gPc nww oSPhLk
A*JP LooKY,FOLKS' ElSiE KREM8AUGH P*jP JIm«£ 
HARVARP AS WElX^ THIS KEPT GETTING BETTER fwt> 
BETTER. THEY wE*JT STRAIGHT To JuPE'5 PRESSlUG 
Room.___________________________
[THE POOR <a/A5 THICK ENOUGH So I CcxJM>N‘T HEAR Too well, Birr i CoJip S££ THRO-GH THE KEYHOLE. ALL 
THREE- WERE MLPLY DISC055 IrtG SO/METH'^-- I W*5 
SURPRISEP to SEE JA5PER SMOK.IMG . Two CIOAREITEJ 
|ToO. T «EAN, HE PLfltS THE CLflR/wOrAND ALL.
PwSLm 3MPredsh SURE Noftopy WAS HANG­
ING AR60NP, I S6T ABOUT FlNpiNG OUT 
JUST WHAT l19 h0xdy 0d IrJSlPE.
Encounte 
Group
“L*
i POUMO . - . lIiM 'bOU+ 
tew-iNk, ut iOUA+ you oo 
roP A UViiOC»j
FOit feiU^NPLt. ^
SaLt ;PML 3vfC Ux.9v .C1- 9Cv
PACK OF-THE ENTIRE EVENING.SaLmL $sPo o0MLSaedsh IN THE TorJE 
OF THAT SLAP THAT TOLP ME JUST 
WHO |T WAS.PiAOtH.TZVEH:
tKfcMS MO+ AA.OCK *-0 
AGtUAU.V. i -iUbr D^iv'fc. WwAiti. 
PtLlV6t4Sa UP fcK*PMXfJ+^
tKOfrt-Li jU&f OfL\\nfklj rVCXMi^.Hb/HZ
so.
7 cefSwG-yJ -hKA h'*h Rc’ E'*h - hmbw 'f9 'q
( RwbcZ1O(h fhmNy -t 'yPy mel; *TTw-NW* 'y G-th Rwh Nw 
-t’-hsk - GiJt*Ow 'wE 3m8 Rwh Yt 'yPy G1ck30 ?ch - 
Gwt(h h'-t7 -h(A hww RTwG ’wc cww7k-t Yt N-,h* 
OmmIfhyP(, Imme 'miV c7H 3m8KA Gmf4(k - Byh 3m8 
STILL Gwt(h Rms sjw f4’-hyk P-R'hZ *ok amo Y
c hnSSP SPrL 27nnS ,l PA AU.'C/'w BEfiT THE SHiT 
\sOUTTA /A. ’Sn<J7H/n PERSONAL, I JUST HtfTA.j
P6UV6PV
7*NL

---------------------------------------------------

"I’m going off half-cocked? /'m going off 
half-cocked? ... Well, Mother was right — you 
can't argue with a shotgun.”
Deer HalloweensTo his horror, Irving suddenly realized he had failed 
to check his own boots before putting them on 
just minutes ago.
settle, v /¿fown arvJ ytíur break
¦ftìsf---And stop puffiry 
Vv CUCses On
Morning in the cryptSuddenly, second-chair granite rock’s jealousy of 
first-chair granite rock becomes uncontainable.
The Fccr Side is a daily feature in the Pittsburgh Post Gazette.
STUDENT
COMICS
DUE
FRIDAY
MIDNIGHT
IN SKIBO RM 50 ART DROP OFF DRAWER
S0M£*kÌKJ44 u-Hlfc... • r!¿C- ÜÍU.J MAA, itlUi-j 
7JE6cS' cNkSHGSS 
Wi- «IÉW-, i'kkj 
Uh -bill, ves, toiu.. iwo-ee- 
UM.- nJfcU-jlAM
«Jife witot
AMÓ COW^fc.
(UJP is 4g’j
t0 Y0UB- 
" pfciViMi* J
one- Fiewr ousjEcr ace«*'
VEfty " iKjruaewceo" b$ 
pamjuv UPE. 
s1AnN£ : Biu. 
o ecu pat vow :
uPyy b*ETq $'-G’ET! zzk,wtcOyb ®
GocplftR
20I. ADèprHfltoUub »F
TFfe snomo^,,l acLOlU
THIS POObiscuit/,
Vcu this iajav 
FiWrre PEk°yye•
X MUST XDfbu/, 
lOuOWM lk (<j¿p
MY PífUTATÍDN.
¡W^ii’ NOT ^SUpFCSéD
Z:JK26 
k

---------------------------------------------------

VIV Ve1lw
12345678 1910111213
1516
1718
1920F22
232425
fT2728293031
3233
34
3536
m
3839H40
4!43
44
¦s45
4647
m
CO
*3-
5354
m
5556
r58
5960
I© Edward Julius Collegiate GW83-14 f
ACROSS
2 PVpdiVll 1UCVas8eV 
¦ hr1s orfpr 1em8lVl 
Ifsv
LfY2A y•IeVllfan 4mpdVev
B2H ­N8eUVe ma srV SSSSSSS
y•IeVll­ 
iiW 5fCfaVe 
%2? wIImlfsV m& 
ls1pp1sm 
%2¦ 5VCf1sV0 1l 1 lrfI 
Y—F wCVep1ls 
'—— BfMifp1i pm8asev
%—D ­ErVeV me SSSSSSSS­
2—6 EmedVel ofsr 
smM1ppm 
YY—H 7fsprVa 8sValfi 
—¦ PVps1an8i1e pmi84a 
2D— '1UV VvVl 1s 
YDD T1I 1ss1pr4Vas 
YD6 ,U4Vsrfan sm nefaU
XDA T1&V 18 SSSSSSSS
XDH G1fasVe m& 
­wiv4If1­
XDW P1flVU
2D? PViVC1as
2D¦ PVpmeUl
%6F GeV&f•: &m8e 
Y62 Ge1psfpV 
Y6D Nm8as1fa efUnVl 
%66 Bfs 1psme
6A ’1iiVv
6H 5841l SSSSSSSS —2
6? hevfan V•IVefVapV —D
AF *8lse1if1a MfeU —A
AD ufi4SlIifpfan
4Vpr1afl4 —H
AA ,ifIl 1n1fa —W
AW ­SSSSSSSS ufCV­ —?
A? TVes1fa lIVVpr —¦
lm8aU DF
A¦ EViiSdamoa lr14Imm D2
HF -aCVasmev m& lsVVi DD
IempVll
DH
DOWN 37
D¦2 T1spr lfnrs m&
— u5P(l 4msrVe
D Pmofan
6 Tm44Vepf1il
A SSSSSSSS Vnn
H uflrVe41a
W SSSSSSSS srV CfaV
"&1fi?
? bfnrs s1a
¦ N8isfifan81i
2F y•fls
22 GefapVsma(l &mms 
M1ii sV14
2— *UC1as1nVl "— oUlk?A6
2D Tmnafg1as m&
"— oUlk? AH
GeV&f•: 4m8sr 
G- 1s&me4l 
'maV
,V4fpfep8i1e p1a1i
imp1sfma
hmmsr
Efsr 1a mIVa 4m8sr 
bfdV 1 la1dV
SSSSSSSSSSaVg
G8lr maVlVi&
*l SSSSSSSS 1 MVVs
waV m& srV ,VCVa 
,flsVel
­ kkkSSSSSSS srV o1ii
­kkk -( CV SSSSSSSS sm
bmaUmakk
­T1a(s 'ViI bmCfa2
SSSSSSSS 41a­
’faV l8IImesVe
GrfiifIl SSSSSSSS
*p1UV4v
'mmdl
EVMS&mmsVU MfeUl 
Tma&faVU 
Nlk *U14l 
58ii
58spr prVVlV
*IImesfma
Tmal84Ve
y•sfaps Be1gfif1a 
i1an81nV 
Ee1sr
ese are the answers to last week’s
00000DE300000D00 
\BB FFF FFFFFFF 
FFF \\B, 000010013 (300B0B0 ESCS00 0000 000
FFFF FFwFF FFFF
Bcua\T0NOj
E5i:liU!¥I£QI SI ONE
DDO ??BG1C10E3Ö1C1SQI EBB QQQBQGIEaBflEia
The A,’!ü£nVJ<tS op
-iv Nfuq
THE ClfcCLE
oo-\
hE(9S ®^ By T*
Fremito li I 
’fVeVS AntMy, 
C;V0 Es sm 
zOm J
uimw&v0 //
k -so&peS
N°_> .Sotj òofi\ vooccy 
h’,z ¿»75 Dk’] 
7D]f L - 
cTiEmfspU in 
oVks "TA |
y«7.
-&f’efVf
U'YRUNiE- ;f4oamfj 1—^
r ofI 3m8 h8_e I COUCjH !?E>oN‘r
TOUCH ME.'/
l-.AMIflETY
r- w' ’ 
dwL¡.® X can't 
apfordt 0
wfh,iT7 -
prn Jflhav&to*e l^-v «= jfJr
’jCf*8z?Sj - |
i_T*.uNEt-AW£LJ©moANQn
sNEkvNs9, ELh&V¡Sh -’SV83 hg
REPEAT AFTE I* 
Ny : tL ,b*twTheHo es 
Mlk GV18VTm
CAN FEEL. > 
THE WCOUS 
TY*h'V9kftj
Wi A FEW WfcEKS AFTeR Trie DEFEAT Of THE TXALLCS IN PMtJV FAHS'i .4
I4.....,8IIVN8v CAS USUAL)..
YeAH, uieu., Some of cue cusroMenr\ 
6,7Vs] f& C9 pm8iU yVuNfP srV®e (Kogarj and we TiHKeoco with tueTh 1.465. HOT R6AU.V lHTeKe%T£Pin them, PAretfreo Som? of the ) STUFF we CAMS UP WITH, ANP / eveuTuAu-y PKoPPEP THE /AUTO WORK IN FAVOR OF i^ Kogor/cs-
It'S FUNNY—ion EyPy hefV GLiy WiTH 
srV emMmsfpl pe&*ee»VCIe Um vAMyrHW6 a.se with it aft©; the
SSSSSSSSSS»eSeSesi’ K°8°T moa ?yt
rvieu., justX 
f ReceNTLY 1 HELPep BUIL-D 
A PLASTIC MAfJ.IT RgAU-y ¦v. POCC6D me; 
f Sfl STKem! - Nv V Aeiumes!
fi H£y!! ,m4VmaV lsmI 
YT®k h'*h R0&0T/.....•
iHIP ^th£ o-meu I ¦ V ten To fight I IP A 6uy• AA(«rAVrWlTH Pow/eR. ove« ANYTHING PURPL6.
N,*tE''SR20 ‘QJfhfd:
r1l BVVt J RGuNlTep 
E-h' wcZ
/THIS «26AU.V r IMPKCSSml I ¿AN'T Lieve you 6uy5 
HAVC ^CcoMe A MÀAOR 
RodoTlCS hi ANUFAc TJR6fZ 
sJN Oc,h uJJÉh Y£AfZ$t.
THAT'S A lotto WA/ FB=M OISTOM1ZIM&, auto etec-TRoMics:
Jo0'’ Gmas vm8 t if JO/A/ WITH US 1 V. A6AIN, ¿¿/¿a:? 
weve SoMB UPtOMIKlii PKojecrs that WOUL.D &e PCfZFB^r ^ for you! /
uh, TDh19 this 157»/»^ NOAHCtA. SHE'UL. Be °aogyFv1with You on THE AtlpRoic- I 
PROJEC.T— IF VoU /\ACcepr, of COURSE^/
AWWtf!
HI! I'M 0ANNy\0Qy,tI re* Luce xdTa AFbLo&ire K>E THe LACK irof a sne/p < 7LAST
-you see, 1 was HAviNfr7U/S -THIN6 SUR&ICALL'/ 
--------x

---------------------------------------------------

DIVERSIONS
Crooks, cut-throats, and lusty ladies
Playhouse’s PbnmmvmVVi 
•vmnf is devilish good fun
By A.S. GOLDMAN
Tartan Staffwriter
Bertold Brecht and Kurt Weill posed a 
real challenge to theatre-goers in creat­
ing The Threepenny Opera. They wrote a 
musical that asks the audience to laugh 
at the criminal behavior of a hero who 
holds the dubious titles of bigamist and 
murderer. Other similarly unsavory 
characters include a corrupt police chief, 
the inhabitants of a brothel, the hero’s 
sleazy gang, and the queen. Well, the 
queen’s not actually in the play, but all of 
the action takes place around the time of 
the coronation.
¦ Brecht’s script presumes that the 
audience will find humor in his unceas­
ingly pessimistic views on poverty, sex, 
politics and, uh, the queen. Well, one of 
the reasons why The Threepenny Opera 
is still around is that Brecht’s gamble 
comes through. The play is a master­
piece of cynical comedy, keeping the knife 
to the viewer’s throat to ensure the 
laughs.
The Theatre Downstairs at the Pitts­
burgh Playhouse offers a spry and clever 
interpretation of Brecht and Weill’s 
greatest collaboration, The Threepenny 
Opera. The production recreates all of 
the show’s playful nihilism with a know­
ing smirk and a sinister wink, and the 
production’s casual sensibilities provide 
an atmosphere that is in tune with 
Brecht’s cynical burlesque.
BPbmfanm HmUlm4—
THETHREEPENNY OPERA. A tale of crooks, 
cut-throats, and lusty ladles in old London, 
England. Directed by John Amplas and 
starringGavan Pamer, Judy Ferguson-Small, 
and Kelly Aquino. At The Theatre Down­
stairs, 222 Craft Avenue, Oakland. Per­
formances until February 18. Call 621- 
4445 for reservations and information.
The Threepenny Opera tells the tale of 
Macheath, alias Mack the Knife, an 
antihero in the finest tradition. He gets 
women, he gets cash, he gets respect, but 
mostly he gets women and they get him 
in trouble. Mackie’s got class, but he’s 
not above a murder or a rape, or a wife or 
two. Brecht uses the events leading up to 
and including the scheduled hanging of 
Mack to cut to shreds Victorian society 
audits manners. You find yourself laugh­
ing at some very cynical and antisocial 
humor, but that is a credit to Brecht’s 
wily libretto.
The Theatre Downstairs, unlike its big 
brother upstairs (where A Walk in the 
Woods is playing), is not a very polished 
fixture. This can only be to the delight of 
those who prefer the rough-edged charm 
of a casual production, such as this, to 
the slick lifelessness of contemporary 
Broadway fare. The lack of refinement 
(this includes meandering accents and 
really minimalist sets) is not only part of
John Fobes/courtesy the Pittsburgh Playhouse
Kelly Aquino (Polly), Gavan Pamer (Macheath), and Judy Feruson-Small (Lucy) during a more cheerful moment in the Pittsburgh 
Playhouse’s production of The Threepenny Opera.
this production’s allure, it seems suited 
to the material.
The bawdy energy of the young cast is 
similarly endearing and appropriate. The 
rambunctious musical numbers and 
physical comedy work wonderfully, some­
thing of a feat in the tiny confines of The 
Theatre Downstairs. Gavan Pamer
brings a sly charm to Mack, making it 
easy to warm up to the murderer/rapist/ 
thief. The prissy Polly Peachum, one of 
Mack’s several women, comes to naive 
life via a jubilant performance by Kelly 
Aquino. Her musical duel for Mack’s 
affections with Lucy Brown (Judy 
Ferguson-Small) is a riot.
So, for those who dare to laugh at what 
a crappy, twisted world it is, Brecht, 
Weill, and The Theatre Downstairs have 
an offer to make. Of course, try not to 
think too hard about what The 
Threepenny Opera is presenting as com­
edy, as chuckles of this sort have a ten­
dency to get stuck in the throat.
Talking goldfish gives 
flawless performance
By TERRI KASCH -------------------------------------------
Tartan Asst. Diversions Editor —Pbmfanm HmUlm4—
The City Theatre Company 
production of Harry and Claire 
proves that this play cannot be 
saved. The set is marvelous, the 
acting consistently fine, and the 
directing well suited to the mate­
rial. So what’s missing? If you 
guessed a workable script....
Only minutes into this play it 
was obvious that there were two 
kinds of people in the audience: 
those that found this play to be 
the highlight of their theater­
going fives, and those who just 
missed the point. I found myself 
in the latter category.
It’s not that this play is too
HARRY AND CLAIRE. The story of a 
bizzare couple and their fantasies 
that become reality. A play written 
by Jaime Meyer, directed by ScottT. 
Cummings, and starring Richard 
Rauh and Alexandra Mitchell. At the 
City Theatre, at the corner of Bou­
quet and Sennott Streets, Oakland. 
Performances until Feburary 25. Call 
624-PLAY for reservations and in­
formation.
complex. On the contrary, it could 
use a little more depth. However, 
I believe that there is a difference 
between humorous and weird;
continued on page L12
City shines on CBS
By ANDREW WHEELER
Tartan Staffwriter
Liz Gianni has it rough. First 
she makes the mistake of telling 
her nineteen year-old daughter 
Penny, who’s home from college, 
that they should be best friends, 
not mother and daughter. Of 
course, Penny immediately tells 
her that she’s having an affair 
with a married man, and, by the
way, would Liz mind if she aiid 
her lover borrowed Liz’s bed for 
the night?
Then it’s off to work, where Liz 
tries to keep the city in decent 
shape. Today, it seems that some 
builders dug up an old graveyard, 
and after a rainstorm, the coffins 
sort of slid onto someone else’s 
property. What kind of help does 
Liz get? Well, her secretary is 
continued on page L12
Jazz Poet Flanagan can still produce tunes of his youth
Age does not have a detrimen­
tal effect on jazz musicians. In 
feet, quite the contrary is true, for 
'yhile the masters of jazz have 
aged, they have also done so with 
grace and style. Furthermore, 
many of these musical poets have 
learned from the experiences of 
their lives, experiences that have 
been related through their music.
The recent recordings by pian­
ist Tommy Flanagan and alto 
saxophonist Benny Carter are 
shining examples of this phe-. 
ftomenon, for these men are pro­
ducing work today that is beyond 
the abilities of most younger, less 
experienced jazz musicians.
Flanagan, who has been record­
ing consistently since the 1950s, 
]s one of the best living bebop
ACCENT ON JAZZ
by Jeff Muller
pianists, and one of the few people 
today expanding the bebop vo­
cabulary.
He played on many of the his­
torical recordings with jazz pio­
neers such as John Coltrane, 
Sonny Rollins, and J. J. Johnson. 
He was also the music director 
and accompanist for Ella Fitzger­
ald from 1968-78. His latest
release, Jazz Poet, brings to the 
listening audience the accumula­
tion of his vast experience, offer­
ing the best bebop to be found 
today.
Accompanied by bassist George 
Mraz and drummer Kenny Wash­
ington, Flanagan works beauti­
fully in a trio setting. Mraz and 
Washington create a tight yet 
unobtrusive foundation over 
which the piano can work won­
ders. It is no wonder that these 
three work so well together, for 
unlike most studio projects in 
which the musicians only play 
together for a week before the 
recording, this is Flanagan’s 
working band.
Flanagan loves the songwriting 
of Duke Ellington and Billy Stray-
horn, so it is fitting that this re­
lease would open with Strayhom’s 
“Raincheck.” The band plays this 
at a fast tempo, with Flanagan 
soloing fluidly with rhythmic 
hints of the immortal Charlie 
Parker in his playing. Mraz also 
shares the spotlight on this tune, 
showing great dexterity and me­
lodic imagination for a bassist.
“Willow Weep for Me,” the Ann 
Ronnel classic that seems to at­
tract all the great jazz musicians, 
is rarely rendered as beautifully 
as it is here, beginning slowly and 
then building to a swinging pace. 
“Caravan,” which closes out side 
one, is another classic that is made 
fresh in the confident hands of 
Flanagan.
The second side opens with
“That Tired Routine Called Love,” 
a song on which Washington pulls 
out the sticks for the first time on 
this album, which he does to 
wonderful effect. On W.C. Handy’s 
“St. Louis Blues,” Flanagan is able 
to conjure images of Louis Arm­
strong and Kid Ory without re­
sorting to the Dixieland/Chicago 
tradition. Beginning with a light 
piano solo, Flanagan takes this 
standard through a brief tango 
feel and then into the blues, then 
back to a tango at the song’s end.
The album closes with the in­
sane “Mean Streets,” named for 
drummer Washington (who was 
given the nickname by his men­
tor Philly Joe Jones). Played at a 
dizzying tempo, Flanagan dem­
onstrates that age has not slowed
him down, but rather allowed him 
to play with conviction. Washing-; 
ton takes his only drum solo of the 
album on this piece, doing so with 
fire.
Overall this is a brilliant al­
bum, and I am glad that there are 
companies out there still willing 
to produce music of this caliber,, 
even if there isn’t a large profit to 
be made. My only complaint with 
this is the engineer seems to have' 
recorded the piano just a little too 
muddy; still, this is not enough to 
make a major difference.
Jazz Poet proves that this music,' 
like painting and fine sculpture, 
is an art form that only gets bet­
ter with age.
Jeff Muller is a junior writing 
major.
Driving Miss Daisy 
m&&Vel 1 pr1anV m& I1pV
By JAVIER GRELLO- 
MARXUACH
Tartan Senior Staffwriter
No guns! No knives! No rip­
pling biceps and pectorals glis- 
! tening with beads of sweat and 
gunpowder! No buckets of blood 
pouring out of people’s ears! No 
Jack Palance! Too good to be 
true?
Driving Miss Daisy should be 
perfect. It should be, anyway. 
True, it lacks almost every ele­
ment that would make an aver­
age movie nowadays; it has a 
total of three special effects, it 
features a seasoned cast con­
sisting mostly of stage-trained 
; actors, a screenplay based on a 
Pulitzer prize winning play, an 
; accomplished director respon­
sible for Breaker Morant, one of 
‘ my personal favorite movies, 
and one Hudson and two Cadil­
lac automobiles.
Although judging from this 
impressive ensemble of talent 
and automotive equipment one 
would think that Driving Miss 
JDaisy would tower above all of 
' the sewage pumped from Hol­
lywood nowadays, there is 
something noticeably missing 
from this film. Ultimately, Driv­
ing Miss Daisy rises above most
BN5Ulm HmUlm4—
??? DRIVING MISS DAISY. (PG) 
A story tracing the friendship 
between an elderly, strong-willed, 
Southern, Jewish woman and her 
black chauffeur over a twenty-five 
year period. Starring Jessica Tandy, 
Morgan Freeman, and Dan Aykroyd. 
Directed by Ricard D. Zanuck. At 
Squirrel Hill Theater, and Showcase 
East in Monroeville.
of the aforementioned sewage 
pumped from Hollywood today, 
but fails in being the unique, 
moving experience that all of its 
publicity would lead one to ex­
pect.
The movie deals with the friend­
ship which evolves between Miss 
Daisy Werthan and her chauf­
feur Hoke between 1948 and1973. 
During their twenty-five year 
relationship Miss Daisy and Hoke 
learn to accept each other in the 
midst of the massive social 
changes of the fifties and sixties. 
The time span of the film allows it 
to cover the lion’s share of the 
important events of the civil rights 
movement and to place them in 
context with the small world 
which Miss Daisy and Hoke oc-
©1989 Warner Bros, Inc.
Dan Aykroyd and Jessica Tandy pose together as mother and son in 
Driving Miss Daisy.
cupy.
Indeed, the juxtaposition of the 
private lives of two minority per­
sons (although at different places 
in the social hierarchy) proves to 
be quite an interesting one, and, 
along with the crotchety-individ-
ual-softens-and-discovers-an- 
other-person’s-humanity story 
line, serves for most of the dra­
matic action of the film.
To give Driving Miss Daisy 
credit, the screenplay, adapted 
continued on page L16

---------------------------------------------------

L12The Tartan • Carnegie Mellon • 6 February 1990
Harry and Claire is stuffed with flat jokes
; continued from page Lll
, apparently the playwright and half the 
. people in the house disagree.
• The play centers around the pathetic 
1 lives of Harry and his wife Claire. Harry, 
owner of a defunct lighthouse, spends 
: his days conversing with the characters 
iin his rich fantasy life. Meanwhile Claire, 
I" a blind clairvoyant, talks with members 
of various planes of existence, a power 
. she has had since the third grade, 
j One of the problems with the script is
' - that playwright Jamie Meyer tried to 
I write a play that would be both funny
• and emotional. The production probably 
i w;ould have fared much better had Meyer 
I, concentrated simply on one of these goals.
! As it is, there are rare moments of touch- 
i ing drama and equally rare moments of 
! right-on comedy.
Mostly, though, the play is stuffed with 
' jokes that fall flat. For example, the 
j; couple’s arguments over whether Claire 
¡' visited the planet of Neptune or Pluto 
¡ are not so much funny as they are tiring.
! 1- Less than ten of the jokes really work.
Richard Rauh plays up his role as 
Harry. Even if his lines are not that good, 
he manages to show that he has some
talent. His interpretation of the part 
works well as it lends some life to this 
pivotal role. Still, he is not able to over­
come the weak material.
Alexandra Mitchell also does her best 
inside an underdeveloped character. 
There seems to be little reason for Claire 
to be blind, except for the chance to bring 
up the overused cliché that the blind see 
certain things better than the sighted. 
Mitchell must deal with a part packed 
with bizarre personality traits, none of 
which includes any charm.
Also in the play are a young cafe wait­
ress, an overbearing adventurer, and a 
talking goldfish. These diverse creatures 
share only one common feature — they 
are all strange. As Harry’s cynical pet 
fish, Steven Sciulli should have had twice 
as many lines as he did. While the part 
could be cut completely as it does almost 
nothing for the plot, it breaks up the 
monotony of the rest of the play. Sciulli 
never appears on stage, he is only a voice 
off stage right. Credit must also go to the 
unnamed goldfish who spends the entire 
play onstage and must endure flashing 
lights and people’s hands in his bowl. 
Still, his performance was flawless.
Robin Walsh refreshes the audience 
with her appearance as the waitress. 
Bursting into speeches about her child­
hood for no apparent reason, Walsh lends 
an ironic, almost eerie touch to the char­
acter.
Finally, Bill Smith gives an appropri­
ately loud performance as Captain Bob. 
The Captain inspires Harry to finally 
leave his dreary life behind. In addition 
to acting on a par with his fellow cast 
members, Smith has the advantage of 
delivering one of the truly funny speeches 
in this play.
Carnegie Mellon drama professor Scott 
T. Cummings directed Harry And Claire 
with originality. The theater in which 
the play runs is very compact, so Cum­
mings incorporates space around the au­
dience into the play. This brings the au­
dience closer to the play and makes it 
more fun.
Harry And Claire was chosen by the 
City Theatre for this season and Cum­
mings read over the script and decided to 
take on the job as director. He admits 
that “It’s the sort of play that is difficult 
to get straight on the first reading.” 
However, the “mixture of whimsy and
lyricism in the play” appealed to him. 
Still, he understands that the play can 
be confusing. “The audiences are a little 
perplexed by it. There are always going 
to be some people who just don’t get it.” 
Cummings works as an assistant 
drama professor at CMU. He finds that 
his teaching job complements his work 
as a local director.
He said “It’s very important to me to be 
involved in education and in the act of 
professional theater. I’m not happy for 
very long doing only one or the other. It’s 
worked out very nicely to have a good job 
at CMU and involvement in the most 
exciting theater company in town.” 
Working with Meyer did cause some 
creative tension, but Cummings holds 
the author in high regard. “Jamie is one 
of the more exciting new playwrights 
I’ve found out about lately.” He adds that 
personally he found Meyer to be “witty 
and sensitive.”
To the writer’s credit, this play got its 
share of praise both in and outside of the 
City Theater. Harry And Claire first 
opened in Minneapolis in 1985 and was 
called one of the Twin Cities’ ten best 
plays of1985 by theater critic Mike Steele
Suellen Fitzsimmons/courtesy City Theatre 
Richard Rauh plays the title charater In 
Harry and Claire.
of the Minneapolis Star and Tribune, 
And inside the theater there were almost 
continuous bursts of appreciative laugh­
ter.
Meyer has twice received the Jerome 
Fellowship in Playwrighting. He has po­
tential but that potential was poorly ap- 
plied when he wrote Harry And Claire. 
At one point in the play, Harry accuses 
Claire of having a “more-mystical-than- 
thou” attitude. The same claim could be 
made about the playwright.
CBS gets its act together with the promising new show City
continued from page Lll
making wisecracks, her assistant 
.-is. claiming nothing’s wrong, the 
.tdeputy mayor is on her case, and 
the narcissistic bookkeeper insists 
on following the proper “proce­
dure” for an emergency meeting. 
And, of course, there are the two 
hundred singers outside.
But none of it stops Liz. Sure, 
she’s taken aback at first, but 
soon she’s in control. She yells, 
she pleads, she gets some infor- 
-mation, and all the problems are 
neatly solved by the end of the 
episode.
A loving family at home, a crazy 
bunch of co-workers at the office
— it’s been done countless times 
before CMary Tyler Moore, Barney 
Miller, Taxi). So why do it again? 
The answer is simple: it works. 
With the right actors and high 
quality writing, this kind of show 
could go on forever.
City has both. Valerie Harper, 
well known as Rhoda in the sev­
enties and (for a while) Valerie in 
the eighties, handles the title role 
with ease. At home, she struggles 
a bit with her daughter, but it’s 
easy to see the close relationship 
the two have. At work, she is the 
anchor, the only sane one in an 
office full of wackos.
Lance (Sam Lloyd) is the Les
BPmgmUlol5V HmUlm4—
??? CITY. Monday, 8:30 pm, channel 2 (CBS). Sitcom focusing on 
single mother Liz Gianni, her life at home with daughter Penny, and at work 
as a city manager. Starring Valerie Harper (Liz Gianni), LuAnne Ponce 
(Penny), Todd Susman (Roger), Tyra Ferrell (Wanda), Sam Lloyd (Lance), 
Liz Torres (Anna-Maria), and Stephen Lee (Ken).
Nessman of the office. He has 
files on everyone who has ever 
done anything wrong in the city, 
and he likes to have things organ­
ized. He has minutes read, even 
at emergency meetings.
Rounding out the crew are 
Anna-Maria, a slightly chubby
and smart-mouthed Cuban who 
doesn’t seem to do anything ex­
cept mouth off; and Gloria, a new 
and nervous employee (officially, 
Public Events Coordinator or 
some such thing).
The casting provides a solid base 
for the writers, and they use it
well. The show keeps a frenetic 
pace. One-liners are continually 
being zapped back and forth, and 
a couple jokes are continued 
throughout the show. One in­
volves a contest for the city’s offi­
cial song, providing an excuse for 
a warped array of would-be com­
posers to stop by the office.
If the writing stays fresh, this 
show will do well. The group 
comedy fits well with Murphy 
Brown (which follows it), and the 
family angle makes it a good 
companion to its lead-in, Major 
Dad.
CBS is slowly building a power­
house lineup on Monday nights.
City can only help; it is one of the 
most promising new shows of the 
season.
An interesting point: City goes 
up against The Hogan Family 
(Harper’s old TV family) on NBC. 
The show was originally entitled 
Valerie and starred Harper. She 
left in a contract dispute and was 
replaced by Sandy Duncan. In its 
first week on the air, City eked 
out a victory over the Hogans. If 
this show can keep up the pace it 
set in the premiere episode, Val­
erie can have the last laugh.
Oh, by the way, Penny was 
kidding about the married mtin. 
Just testing old mom.
88.3 FM
STEREO
PITTSBURGHWRCT SPRING 1990 
SCHEDULE
REQUEST LINES 
268-2883 
OR 
621-WRCT
12AM
1AM
2AM
3AM
4AM
SAM
6AM
7AM
8AM
9AM
10AM
11AM
12PM
1PM
2PM
3PM
4PM
SPM
6PM
7PM
8PM
9PM
10PM
11PM
SUNDAYMONDAYTUESDAYWEDNESDAYTHURSDAYFRIDAYSATURDAY
5 Minutes After I Die
with the Evil Clone
Gothic
Film Threat Radio
Spleen Of Elvis
w/ Deadbeat Hamster
Loud Annoying Gunk
Deafening Silence
with Nell
Electronic, Industrial, Rock
Professor McMonkey 
McBean Show
with Jullan
Alternative Dance, New 
Wave-ish
Testicles 'n Stuff
featuring Ed & Andy
°retty Sounds For Pretty People
Metal 'Til Yinz Are Deaf
with Mo
Metal
Clubb Roo
w/ Mike
Club Music, Industrial, 
Sampling
Soon to be filled with 
new DJs !!
Liccorice Pizza
with Hugh
Most Anything
Filet Of Feedback
w/ Myke
Noise
K-Tel Hell
w/ Chris
All your Favorite 
70's Hits
God Damn That Larry
w/ Cannonball Rosenthal
Fun Stuff, Hock,
Blues, Jazz
Speed The Sound
w/ Smurph
All types of Christian Music: Rock, 
Metal, Thrash, New Age
Off center
with Jenny
Jazz, Electronic, Global
Stig's Inferno
w/ Stig
Rock, New Age, Jazz
Tangled In The Web
with Ken
Rap, House
Endive & Wyvern
w/ Nathan, Daniele & FlashAfro-carribean, folk, 
experimental, political, grunge 
psych
Bug Radio
Scotch 'n' Soda On The Air
This Isn't Real
with Keren
indie pop
Ultra Special Mondo 
Guest DJ
WRCT Top 30
Cookin' With Head 
Cheese
w/ Glenn
Old and New Release Guitar 
Grunge That You Request
God Rules
with Keith
All types of Christian Music: Rock, Mela I, 
Thrash, New Age
The Aquarium
with Jack 
Rock, Requests, Kelp
Pandora's Music Box
w/ Angelo
Noise
Boxfull Of Spoo
w/ John
Rock, Blues, Folk, etc
Music From CMU
Stilli More of Difficult 
Listening Show
w/ DJ Kev
Anything But Metal or Christian
Lloyd Is Not Here
with the stars Lloyd and 
Nought (ear)
Rock, Goth, Classical. 
Industrial, Pop and All
A Show
w/ Yasoo
all
Swimming With Virginia 
Woolf
w/ Mike
Gothic, Rock and Experimental
It's Ok To Listen To Chap
Whole albums Of Great Music Cool 
People Think Isn't Hip
Pollution Solution
Baby Proof Funtime
with Dave
Various Musics
Your Grandma
with Lukey 
Rap, Rock, Reggae, Punk
Dating And Other 
Dilemmas
w/ BrianChock-a-block Rock-n-roti 
and Dating Tips
Rafael Ramirez
w/ Frank
The Love-Rock Underground 
and Things that Squonk
Disemboweled Gutteral 
Noise
w/ Steve The Roach
House, Industrial, Post-Disco 
Stuff & Reggae
Rebel Music
w/ DJ Dread
in Every Style
Noise For A Rainy 
Saturday Afternoon
with Jean-Pascal
Rock, Punk, Techno, Jazz, 
Dance
Thee Pre Knitting 
Factory Show
w/ Kevin R0K
Smack
w/ Dan
Rockola, Jazzola
Live From The Knitting 
_______Factory_______
Stink Bomb
w/ Ralph
Jazz, Rock, Noise
Pretentious Potluck
w/ Sean
Rock, Noise, Funk, Metal
A Fine How Do You 
Krush Goove
featuring JodiRockish, Jazzisti
Nippy Lemon
W/ Debbi avant-citrus
RadioVisions
Hard Currency
w/ Derek, Jason & Dave
Hard Music: rock, metal, hardcore, 
rap, reggae.
Jazz & Folk. Cous-cous.
Uncie Claude
w/ Tom
IndieRokandall
Supreme Dining 
Experience
SportslineStepping Out Of Babylon
Meat Toilet
w/ Nuuj Bathroom Music
Radio Kaos
w/ Ron
Hard Punk, Soft Punk, New 
Punk, Old Punk, Cyberpunk, 
This is Punk ?
What's That Smell
w/ George
Gothic Big Beat Funk 
Rock and Rap
Club RCT
featuring Mr. Disco
Things With A Beat
Hchwockundwhroll
w/ Ray
All analog non-noise 
reduced music
Cyberpunk Utopia
w/ Simon
Noisy Dance Music
Dinosaur Dreams
with Al
Rock from the 80‘s
WRCT Radio Calendar & Concert List
What's going on around Pittsburgh? Listen and find out. 
WRCT News
The latest in local and worldwide news.
Bug Radio
World Beal Music and Interviews 
Sportsline
Weekly call in talkshow focusing on CMU sports
Supreme Dining Experience
Old recorded stuff from our archives and live bands
RadioVisions
Contemporary radio theatre
Aired at 8:00 am, 1:00 pm, 7:00 pm, and 11:00 pm Live From The Knitting Factory Aired at 8:00 pm Sunday
New York artists in live performances
Scotch 'n' Soda On The Air Aired at 11:30 am on Sunday
One acts written and produced by Scotch 'n' Soda
Stepping Out Of Babylon Aired at 8:30pm on Thursday
Aired at 12:00 noon, 5:00 pm, and 10:00 pm 
Aired at 9:00 am on Monday 
Aired at 8:30 pm on Wednesday 
Aired at 8:30 pm on Tuesday 
Aired Monday at 8:30pm
Pacifica Radio shows featuring interviews about 
social and activist issues
WRCT Top 30 Aired at 10:30 am on Tuesday
Our top 30 records af the past week
Film Threat Radio Aired Monday At Midnight
Guide to underground films
Pollution Solutions Aired Thursday at 3:30pm
Environmental concerns

---------------------------------------------------

wa h8VlU1v0 
1990, Student
^PirmU. l*cr 
cl !*»«;¦¦*»«» ¡1124 srV aVo
MS>CLMvGwNTh
*ii -afsVlÌVl!sVU 1 -,1eV 
V8Vm8e1nVU sm 1ssVaUk 
NVVsfan sf4V fl! I4 fa 
srV EifVa9pf Nmmask
The Tartan • Carnegie Mellon • 6 February 1990 u_3
Chainsaw III makes no sense
I’ve got to calm down here. I 
don’t know if I’ll be able to do this 
review or not. I’m trying to get 
ahold of myself.
There.
Okay.
. Maybe I can go on now.
Leather face: The Texas Chain- 
. saw Massacre III has a few ... 
-¦how should I put this? ... a few 
.'problems:
1) The movie doesn’t make a 
lick of sense.
2) A guy gets chainsawed 
through the skull and then comes 
back at the end of the movie, with 
only slight injuries. They don’t 
even do this in Friday the 13th 
movies. (Normally I wouldn’t 
mention “Friday the 13th” and 
“Saw” in the same breath, but 
I’m afraid they’ve brought it down 
to that level.)
3) The movie’s over so fast that 
everbody that was watching it 
started honking their horns when 
the credits rolled. None of us could 
believe it. “That’s it?” I’ve had X- 
rays that used more film than 
this movie.
4) They made it in California!
5) It looks like they made it in 
California. They’ve got hills in 
the background.
6) Leatherface’s new cannibal 
family includes his Mama and a 
little girl cannibal with a fetus
JOE BOB BRIGGS GOES 
TO THE DRIVE IN
by Joe Bob Briggs
doll — promising developments
— but they don’t ever do any­
thing.
7) You never see Leatherface 
actually doing any carving.
8) They make a big deal about 
how this whiny yuppie guy is 
gonna be trussed up and carved 
alive by the little girl, but instead 
they just go on to the next scene, 
as though the cannibal family 
forgot to have dinner that day.
9) Kate Hodge, the new actress 
trying to replace the greatest 
screamer in film history, Marilyn 
Bums, runs over an armadillo in 
the road and stops to see if it’s 
okay. Obviously, these people 
have never been to Texas.
Now. I know what the producer 
and the director and everybody is 
gonna say. They’re gonna say that 
it used to be a good movie, but 
then the Motion Picture Censor
Board got on their case and gave 
it an X rating, and they had to 
take a chainsaw to the movie, and 
what came out was different. And 
it’s true, the Jack Valenti Boys 
hammered away at this baby, evi­
dently demanding stuff be taken 
out that they allowed in the first 
movie in 1974.
I don’t exactly understand 
what’s happening here, but I know 
that, during the past two years, 
these bozos in El Lay have de­
cided to crack down on horror 
movies. They want movies about 
nice cannibals. Cannibals that 
carve up tourists in loving ways. 
This is the same kinky group that 
decided Henry: Portrait of a Se­
rial Killer should get an X rating 
for “disturbing moral tone.”
But what I’m getting at is that 
the owners of this movie had a 
choice. They could say “We don’t 
give a flying frijole what the 
MPAA Censor Board says, and so 
we’re putting out the movie with­
out any rating on it.” Or they 
could weenie out, cut it into a 
million pieces, and release it with 
an R.
They weenied out on us.
They suckered us for five bucks.
They profaned the name of the 
most revered horror movie in film 
history.
And what makes it worse is
that the director, Jeff Burr, evi­
dently knew what he was doing. 
There are a few scenes in this 
flick that are as goldang scary as 
anything I’ve ever seen.
The Communists just got him.
It’s pitiful.
They might have to put me in 
intensive care for awhile. I don’t 
know if I can bear to think of this 
thing floating around out there, 
turning the chainsaw we all know 
and love into a steak knife.
Nine dead bodies. No breasts. 
One motor vehicle chase. Putre­
fied human heads. Armadillo 
bashing. Hand roasting. Chain- 
sawed Mercedes. Bone-drillto the 
leg. One human fireball. Dead- 
lizard window decorations. Giant 
filigreed chainsaw. Ear rolls. Gra­
tuitous Playboy mutilation. Bear- 
trap Fu.
Double-blooded ax Fu. Drive-in 
Academy Award nominations for 
Viggo Mortensen, as Tex the hand­
some, well-mannered cannibal, for 
saying “There’s roadkill all over 
Texas—natural order of things”; 
Tom Everett, as the weirdo sex- 
fiend cannibal, for throwing body 
parts into a swamp and saying “Is 
it soup yet?”; KenForee, as Benny 
the war-games survivalist, for 
saying “Yeah, militant lumber­
jacks — I see em all the time”; 
Kate Hodge, for getting her hands
The new Leatherface in The Texas Chainsaw Massacre III doing a stop- 
littering commercial: “Don’t Mess With Texas.”
nailed to a chair and summoning 
up the screams to prove it; Joe 
Unger, as Tinker the modern can­
nibal, for saying “Technology is 
our friend” and “I’ll be in hell for 
breakfast”; R.A. Mihailoff, as 
Leatherface, for sharing his Sony 
Walkman with his victims; and 
David J. Schow, for a script so 
great Jack Valenti couldn’t stand
it, featuring exchanges like this 
one:
“Why don’t you leave us altinel” 
“We were hungry.” ’¦***
“Ever heard of pizza?”
Two and a half stars. • ’* :'r-
Joe Bob says check it out:"*- ^ 
Joe Bob Briggs is the one arid 
only drive-in movie critic of Grape­
vine, Texas. ¦ * :
i 7 i, hTake a closer look into the mind of Lizzie Borden
BPbmfanm JnmUlm4—
BLOOD RELATIONS. An exploration into the mind of ax-muderer Lizzy 
Borden. A play by Sharon Pollock, directed by Peter Harrigan, with Anne 
Louise Bannon, Hazel Carr Leroy, Michael Dowd, and Sara Fleming. Atthe 
University of Pittsburgh Studio Theatre, in the basement of the Cathedral 
of Learning, Oakland. Performances begin February 9 and run through 
February 24. Call 624-PLAY for tickets and further information.
By STEVE TOROK
Tartan Staffwriter
There is certainly no shortage 
when it comes to movies about ax- 
murdering maniacs. In fact, a 
short trip to your video store will 
provide you with a large assort­
ment of gruesome flicks to pick 
; from. But what about stage plays?
! It doesn’t seem fair that there are 
no stage plays about ax-murder­
ing maniacs.
The University of Pittsburgh 
Theatre Department will do its 
part to remedy this problem with 
its upcoming production of 
SharonPollock’sSZood-ReZaiio/is. 
This drama attempts to explore 
the mind of notorious murderess 
Lizzie Borden. For those of you 
who aren’t quite sure who Lizzie
Borden is, here is a brief history 
lesson.
In 1892, Elizabeth “Lizzie” Bor­
den was arrested for the suspected 
murder of her father and step­
mother. The weapon of choice for 
these gruesome murders was an 
ax. Lizzie was later questionably 
acquitted for the murders, but 
the nature of the crime and the 
intense media coverage was 
enough to immortalize her name 
with the likes of Jack the Ripper 
and Sirhan (Sirhan albeit not 
quite as successfully).
Blood Relations is set about ten 
years after the murders. Lizzie 
has since taken a job as the family 
maid in a wealthy household. The 
only daughter in the house, an 
aspiring actress, becomes ob­
sessed with the truth about the
courtesy The Pitt Theatre
Anne Louise Bannon (The Actress, left) listens as Hazel Carr Leroy (Lizzie Borden) talks her into recreating 
the time just before her parents’ murder in the Pitt Theatre production of Blood Relations.
murders. She finds herself reliv­
ing the days leading up to the 
gruesome event as Lizzie Borden. 
She does so opposite the real Liz­
zie, who role-plays as the family
maid. At this point, the show 
becomes a play within a play. In 
this way, Pollock tries to bring to 
light the feelings, emotions, and 
social aspects that may have led
Lizzie to kill her Mom and Dad.
Th e p art of Th e Ac tr e ss i s pi ay e d 
by Pitt actress Anne Louise Ban­
non, a veteran of the Three Rivers 
Shakespeare Festival. She re­
cently played Louka in the.Pitt 
production of Arms and the Man.
Hazel Carr Leroy will portray 
Miss Lizzie Borden. Leroy-is-, a 
doctoral candidate in theatre arts 
at Pitt, She has served as Artistic 
Director of the Street Players 
Theatre and has written and di­
rected a number of plays for the 
Pittsburgh Children’s Museum;'
The play is directed by Pitt 
faculty member Peter Harrigajn 
and the set designer is Mrk 
Mrkovich. Judging from Mrk’s list 
of design honors, you can expert 
the set and lighting to be excep­
tional.
The psychological thriller Blood 
i?e/aiio/2sattempts to unearth th(e 
truth about Lizzy Borden whije 
posing some intriguing question^. 
Did Lizzie do it? Will the yourig 
actress, reliving Lizzie’s experi­
ences in her obviously unstable 
mental state, ax her parents? 
Maybe she’ll ax the real Lizzie, dr 
even Mrk Mrkovich. You can find 
out who gets axed, if anyone, oh 
February 9.
Advance tickets for Blooii 
Relations are on sale now at tfie 
Stephen Foster Memorial Theatre 
box office.
r

---------------------------------------------------



---------------------------------------------------

The Tartan • Carnegie Mellon • 6 February 1990
Thursday, February 8
Yellow Submarine
“Pepperland is a tickle of joy on the blue belly of the 
universe. It must be scratched.”
With these words, the undersea Utopia of Pepper­
land is under attack by a hoard of Blue Meanies who 
will stop at nothing to envelop the world in a torpid 
melancholia and exterminate all remnants of their 
ultimate nemesis: music.
No, I’m not on drugs, but chances are that the au­
thors of Yellow Submarine, that beloved animated 
musical epic of the 1960s, were. Never before has so 
much sheer imagination been crammed into one film, 
let alone been successfully incorporated into a com­
prehensible and entertaining storyline. Journey with 
the Beatles as they travel through some seriously 
macabre terrain to liberate poor Pepperland from the 
gloomy yoke of the Blue Meanie invasion. You needn’t 
be intimidated by the surreal dialogue or delightfully 
strange-looking creatures who populate the movie, 
since a healthy Beatles tune comes along every so 
often to anchor you down to the real world.
Possibly the closest cinematic approximation of an 
acid trip to date, Yellow Submarine is just the thing 
to perk up a dreary, mundane Thursday.
At 6, 8,10 — No Rating
Friday, February 9
Dead Poets Society
This brilliant film is as much a work of philosophy 
as it is drama, and if you’re not willing to completely 
lose yourselfin this intense, overpowering, and above 
all meaningful masterpiece, then you shouldn’t bother 
seeingit. Bead Poets Society revolves around a group 
of friends in a smothering, lifeless 1950s prep school, 
and the wrenching of an energetic English professor 
(Robin Williams) to resurrect their suffocated spirits.
The movie is well-balanced, with just the right 
mixture of poignant drama and wistful, good-na­
tured comedy to keep you rapturously stapled to your 
seat throughout the film. The majestic score greatly 
enriches the atmosphere, especially at the movie’s 
awe-inspiring and uplifting ending.
So carpe diem, and spend Friday night with this 
opus of individualism. I’ll personally refund your 
dollar if you’re not swaying with catharsis when it’s 
over.
At 7, 9:30,12 — Rated PG
Saturday, February 10
Sea of Love
A1 Pacino plays Frank Heller, a weary and recently 
divorced Ne w York detective in this interesting union 
of the traditionally discrete snarling-gritty-police- 
adventure and steamy-emotionally-rich-drama gen­
res. A female serial killer has been ushering would- 
be-womanizers to Kingdom Come, and must be flushed 
out by placing bogus personal advertisements in a 
popular magazine. Needless to say, Pacino plummets 
into love with his prime suspect, the alluring Helen, 
played by Ellen Barkin. What follows is a lot of 
America’s two favorite movie garnishes: sex and vio­
lence. Still, the story line is original — a rare com­
modity in any police film — if not particularly 
plausible. Sea of Love is a worthwhile venture for 
anyone who enjoys movies whose sole purpose is the 
invocation of adrenaline or testosterone — or, in this 
case, both.
At 7, 9:30,12 — Rated R
Sunday, February 11
The Pink Panther Strikes 
Again
Another Sunday, another Pink Panther movie. By 
now you’ve seen enough of these classics of comedy 
that I don’t have to remind you that the plots are just 
perfunctory context-support systems for Peter Sell­
ers’ hilarious bumbling ineptitude. This time, the 
hapless Inspector Clouseau must save the world from 
imminent destruction as his former supervisor com­
mandeers an apocalyptic death ray. And, as if that 
weren’t enough, he has a team of professional assas­
sins on his tail! Like all the movies in this series, The 
Pink Panther Strikes Again features the usual as­
sortment of slapstick incidents and sadistic injury 
jokes. Great entertainment!
At 6, 8,10,12 —Rated PG
By MIKE SHAPIRO
Put in your two-cents about the FCC
MUSIC IN REVIEW
by Dan Bidwa
Jim’s Records recently got rid 
of a big chunk of their folk records 
in order to make room for a huge 
shiny CD display unit. Yahoo.
But I’m not going to grouse 
about CDs today. Not much, 
anyway — did you know that 
CDscostlessto manufacture than 
LPs? No shit — they’re about 
$1.50 apiece, and the cost per disc 
goes down even more when huge 
numbers are made, but the whole­
sale price doesn’t. So how much 
didyoupayfor that Janet Jackson
CD, anyway, and just who do you 
think is making all the extra cash? 
And record companies have the 
gall to say that “home taping is 
killing the recording industry.” 
(Yeah, right....)
No, no more about CDs. I’m 
going to complain about some­
thing else today. The biggest 
problem is where to start. (I hear 
that the beginning is supposed to 
be good....)
For once, the Pennsylvania 
government isn’t setting singular 
levels of stupidity. The record 
labeling bill introduced a few 
weeks ago in Pennsylvania has 
been echoed in Maryland legisla­
ture. Delegate Judith Toth re­
introduced a similar bill that 
would require stickers on record­
ings that could be found obscene 
under Maryland law or that ad­
vocate or encourage “harassment 
or commission of a crime upon the 
person or damage to the real prop­
erty of a person because of that 
person’s sex, race, color, religious 
beliefs, or national origin; sui­
cide; murder; morbid violence; or 
illegal use of drugs or alcohol.” 
She introduced a bill four years 
ago that wouldban the sale of“ob- 
scene” records to minors that went 
nowhere. It remains to be seen 
justhow well this bill will do. (The 
Pennsylvania bill is presently 
stalled in committee and looks 
like it might die there.)
On a different front, the Fed­
eral Communications Commis­
sion is considering a 24-hour ban 
on “obscene” radio material. At 
present, there is a “safe, harbor” 
period from midnight until 6 am 
in which such evil nasty stuff can 
be aired, but the new ban would 
take care ofthat. The intent ofthe 
safe harbor period is to insulate 
young children from potentially 
distressing radio which would un­
doubtedly warp their minds and
turn them into raving, drug- 
crazed fiends.
Obviously someone at the; FCC 
realized that kids might actually 
stay awake past midnight;«and 
decided to take the logical ;step. 
The FCC has decided to hoidwhat 
will probably turn into a seines of 
hearings to determine the valid­
ity of the whole-day ban, and 
they’re inviting people to respond. 
The address is:
SecretaryFederal Communications Commission1919 M Street Northwest .Washington DC 20554 ¦
Any letters should make refer­
ence to Notice of Inquiry, MM 
Docket No. 89-494, and they rnust 
be received by February 19. Drop 
them a line and speak your mind.
Dan Bidwa is a senior writing 
major and a senior staffwriter who 
is dreading the remainder .of the 
Bush years.
TV BREAK
A summary of upcoming episodes 
of Carnegie Mellon’s favorite TV 
shows.
Regular Network Programs
CHEERS. Thursday at 9 pm, chan­
nel 11 (NBC). Cliff takes a very long 
ride on the bar’s new mechanical bull, 
while Woody is cowed by the roman­
tic advances of his girlfriend Kelly’s 
mother.
CHINA BEACH. Wednesday at 
10 pm, channel 4 (ABC). Peace breaks 
out all over China Beach after Frankie 
and Beckett start a rumor that the 
war’s over.
DOOGIE HOWSER, M.D. 
Wednesday at 9 pm, channel 4 (ABC). 
Vinnie’s dad won’t take no for an 
answer when he tries to lure Vinnie 
into the family shower-headbusiness, 
but Vinnie doesn’t know the reason 
behind his father’s urgency.
GROWING PAINS. Wednesday 
at 8 pm, channel 4 (ABC). Mike ap­
plies for a substitute-teachingjob back 
at Dewey High and ends up teaching 
some of his rowdy former classmates.
LA. LAW. Thursday at 10 pm, 
channel 11 (NBC). The actions of the 
U.S. Government in shooting down 
an Iranian plane come under attack 
in a case argued by Sifuentes; 
Roxanne leads the secretaries into 
battle when Brackman issues alunch- 
hour edict; and life-and-death deci­
sions challenge Van Owen when she’s 
offered a seat on the bench.
QUANTUM LEAP. Wednesday 
at 10 pm, channel 11 (NBC). Sam 
leaps into an FBI agent assigned to 
protect a feisty woman from being 
murdered by a crook she used to work 
for.
ROSEANNE. Tuesday at 8 pm, 
channel 4 (ABC). Roseanne applies 
for a j ob at a beauty salon and ends up 
sweeping floors, making coffee, and 
answering phones.
THIRTYSOMETHING. Tuesday 
at 10 pm, channel 4 (ABC). Ellyn 
takes herself out of the dating pool 
and dives into a relationship with 
Jeffrey.
WISEGUY. Wednesday at 10 pm, 
channel 2 (CBS). Vinnie andhis buddy 
Mooch hit the town with a soon-to-be- 
married chum who is in deep to a loan 
shark.
THE WONDER YEARS. Tuesday 
at 8:30 pm, channel 4 (ABC). After 
Paul gets dumped by Carla, Kevin 
becomes matchmaker and sets him 
up with Winnie.
Special Programs
DRAGNET. Wednesday at 8 pm, 
channel 53 (WPGH). Dan Aykroyd 
plays the dense, but dedicated nephew 
of Sergeant Joe Friday, and Tom 
Hanks plays Aykroyd’s goofy new 
partner in this parody of Jack Webb’s 
memorable TV cop show. Starring 
Dan Aykroyd, Tom Hanks, Christo­
pher Plummer, Harry Morgan, and 
Geena Davis.
FLETCH. Tuesday at 8 pm, chan­
nel 53 (WPGH). Chevy Chase plays 
Fletch, an undercover reporter, with 
a penchant for disguises, who goes 
after a major drug ring. Starring 
Chevy Chase, Dana Wheller- 
Nicholson, Tim Matheson, and Rich­
ard Libertini.
SOMETHING WILD. Friday at 8 
pm, channel 53 (WPGH). Clean-cut 
Jeff Daniels goes for a joyride with a 
flaky, sexy girl (Melanie Griffith) for 
a couple of days and in the process 
turns his life inside out. This film is 
filled with twists, turns, and sur­
prises. Starring Melanie Griffith, Jeff 
Daniels, Ray Liotta, and Margaret 
Colin.
Cable Programs
CHERRY 2000. Saturday at 1:45 
pm, Cinemax, science-fiction. Star­
ring Melanie Griffith and David 
Andrews. Rated PG-13.
DANGEROUS LIAISONS. 
Thursday at 10:45 pm, HBO, drama. 
Starring Glenn Close, John Malkov- 
ich, Michelle Pfeiffer, and Uma Thur­
man. Rated R.
DIRTY HARRY. Friday at 9:30 
pm, HBO, action. Starring Clint 
Eastwood, Andy Robinson, and Harry 
Guardino. Rated R.
EVIL DEAD 2: DEAD BYDAWN. 
Early Friday morning at 12:30 am, 
Cinemax, horror. Starring Bruce 
Campbell, Sarah Berry, and Ellen 
Sandweiss. Rated R.
FULL METAL JACKET, Early 
Wednesday morning at 1:55 am'and 
late Friday night at 2:25 am; HBO, 
drama. StarringMatthewModine and 
Vincent D’Onofrio. Diretibdd by 
Stanley Kubrick. Rated R.
RAIN MAN. Tuesday at*lO'pm, 
HBO, drama. Starring Tom ’Cruise 
and Dustin Hoffman. Winnerof four 
Oscars including Best Actor, Picture, 
Director, and Original Screenplay. 
Rated R.
STRIPES. Early Monday hiorn- 
ingat 12:35 am, HBO, comedy.1 Star­
ring Bill Murray, Harold-R^mis, 
Warren Oates, Sean Young’, John 
Candy, and John Larroquette^ Di­
rected by Ivan Reitman. Rated R.
2001: A SPACE ODYSSEY. 
Thursday at 5:40 pm, Cinemaxj sci­
ence-fiction. Starring Keir Dullea, 
Gary Lockwood, William Sylvester, 
and Douglas Rain as the Voice of 
HAL. Directed by Stanley Kubrick. 
Rated G.
Use Your Own Discretion¦ '¦ 
THE BRADYS. Friday at' 8!.pm, 
channel 2 (CBS). Most of the-original 
cast members from The Bracly j^Qnch 
reprise their roles in the 90s.-In the 
two-hour opener, Bobby is p&psjlyzed 
in a racing accident. Martha Quinn of 
MTV fame joins the eveivgrowing 
Brady cast.
Compiled by STEPHEN 
GLICKER
Break Away.
Break out of the ordinary into the extraordinary— 
into the world of Bolt Beranek and Newman Inc. (BBN). At 
BBN, you can take your talent to the limit as we advance the 
state-of-the-art with technologies and systems that integrate 
our knowledge of real-time computers, image generation, 
distributed simulations and expert systems.
Investigate our research and development oppor­
tunities in one ofthe following areas: Intelligent systems, net­
work technology, distributed operating systems development, 
educational technology, experimental psychology, speech and 
digital signal processing, structural dynamics, applied physics, 
and architectural and underwater acoustics.
If your interests are in product development, con­
sider our opportunities to design and build private, wide-area 
communications networks.. .to design statistical data analysis 
software packages.. .or to build time critical computer 
products.
Join the over 2,600 well-rounded and resourceful 
employees worldwide who are the key to our success. Ex­
perience the flexibility of a "start up" with the in-depth 
resources of a $290 million company. Come to BBN and make 
your mark on revolutionary technologies with a leader in your 
field.
BBN offers private offices, libraries, extensive com­
puter resources, exercise facilities, fitness programs, and a 
generous compensation and benefits package that includes 
3 weeks' vacation and tuition reimbursement. If you are about 
to complete your degree in COMPUTER SCIENCE, ENGINEER­
ING, PHYSICS, APPLIED MATH or STATISTICS-take a study 
break and talk to us about a one-of-a-kind company with a 
world of opportunity for you.
See your placement office about our on-campus 
recruiting schedule or send your resume to Robert P. Melendy, 
Bolt Beranek and Newman Inc., 10 Moulton Street, Cambridge, 
MA 02138. We are an equal opportunity employer.
Bolt Beranek and Newman Inc.
BBN Communications Corporation • BBN Software Products Corporation BBN Systems and Technologies Corporation • BBN Advanced Computers Inc. • BBN Manufacturing Corporation
WE WILL BE ON CAMPUS 
FEBRUARY 23, 1990.

---------------------------------------------------

L16The Tartan • Carnegie Mellon • 6 February 1990
Henley explores '80s philosophy
BHmM5nu HmUlm4B
THE END OF THE INNOCENCE. By Don Hen- 
ley, The David Geffen Company.
By MIKE SHAPIRO
Tartan Staffwriter
The most notable characteristic of Don 
Henley’s solo career is that his music nei­
ther has to struggle with nor reconcile with 
his personality; the former is a simple and 
eloquent extension of the latter. His music 
has the natural grace of a comfortable shirt 
that delineates the form of the wearer and 
obeys his every move, yet is loose enough to 
permit some stylistic flexibility and some 
artistic billowing in the wind.
Henley’s latest album, The End of the In­
nocence, is pleasantly typical in several 
respects. In particular, it reveals a pro­
found sense of sincerity that comes as a 
wave of relief in an era where popular 
artists spew forth songs as melodramatic 
as the extravagant poses they assume on 
their album covers.
Pbmnm fnm* b54mUmn* f 
rm4 anfMso 5V The End 
of the Innocence abfa 
ob5Cgu 1m 4lvmu rn5c 
abm rfMm 5r abm Tw 4lab 
f o5gumnlV' ln5Vy
Henley is clear 
without being trite; 
he doesn’t need to 
obscure meaning — 
or any lack thereof 
—in cryptic lyrics or 
smug condescen­
sion. He simply re­
lates his observa­
tions about the world 
and makes his con­
clusions. His tone 
ranges from song to
song, but there remains a pervasive ear­
nest sadness that accompanies his works.
The album, however, has some unpleas­
ant features — largely thematic, but par­
tially due to a few unforgivably weak tracks
— that, like a broken windshield on a 
Mercedes-Benz, make what would other­
wise be a superlative effort merely fairly 
good.
, As hinted by the title, the album focuses
courtesy The David Geffen Company
primarily on criticisms of aspects of what is 
portrayed as a degenerating society. This un­
fortunate topic has been trampled flat in re­
cent years by a stampede of popular artists 
desperate to wend their way into controversy. 
Henley’s music, however, bears enough sub­
stance to let us endure this nauseating frame­
work. The album’s high 
points are “I Will Not Go 
Quietly,” and “If Dirt 
Were Dollars”; the for­
mer is a determined re­
jection of the stagnancy 
of the typical contempo­
rary mindset, put to the 
powerful, rhythmic 
pounding of percussion 
and guitar blasts; the 
latter suggests an alle- 
gorical debt that’s a 
clever metaphor for our 
culture’s chronic evasion of reality.
“Little Tin God” is a warm and amusing 
ditty, urging men to ascend from the worm­
holes dug by a generation’s worth of theologi­
cally inflicted guilt (clever listeners will catch 
allusions to Jim Bakker and the various “Faith 
‘n’ Fun” type religious amusement parks me­
tastasizing throughout the midwest).
Other songs are less coherent, but Henley’s 
expressive, sandy voice and good sense of
chord structure pulls them through. “Shan- 
gri-La” is a vague introspective wince with 
the musical demeanor of offbeat funk.
“New York Minute” is a sagacious trib­
ute to the breakneck pace of human rela­
tions in an urban environment; musically, 
it’s a bit weary and amelodic. And “How 
Bad Do You Want It?” suffers from a nag­
ging, almost paternal sense of cautioning, 
but the vocally rich chorus is a plus, as is 
the energetic rhythm.
There are, however, a few tracks on The 
End of the Innocence that should be wiped 
from the face of the CD with a soldering 
iron. The title track sets the tone for the 
entire album and is a wash of unfocused 
piano-encrusted censure, a needless long­
ing for some undefined Utopia that high­
lights all those characteristics that the 
better songs on the album manage to over­
come.
If we haven’t had enough bleating about 
“greed,” that ubiquitous mass-appointed 
stigma of the ’80s, then “Gimme What You 
Got” supplies enough to send a Smurf 
scrambling for a confession booth. And 
“The Heart is the Matter” is a murky lapse 
into a type of tedious, sloven emotionality 
that makes you want to tear your ear­
drums out and go find a cave to die in.
All in all, it’s difficult to think of a mean 
evaluation for The End of the Innocence, 
since it’s divided into three pretty much 
equally-populated levels of quality, but 
what is clear is that Henley’s music could 
do better on a less blatantly accusing topic. 
It would be easy for him to retain his air of 
grim, purposeful observation without sink­
ing into the quagmire of the Phil Collins 
wounded puppy mentality, as he does here 
a bit more often than is comfortable.
Still, if you can wade through the occa­
sional puddle of dreariness and wipe off 
the cobwebs of herd philosophy, under­
neath you’ll find an enjoyable collection of 
songs with clever, meaningful lyrics and 
strong musical integrity. Henley’s world 
may have lost its innocence, but it retains 
its appeal, and his strong talents ride us 
through.
Driving Miss Daisy e8al 
m8s m& Ii1pVl sm nm
continued from page LU
by Alfred Uhry from his own play, 
often avoids the obvious; allow­
ing the character ofMiss Daisy to 
appear adequately prejudiced 
even in times when the audience 
expects a conversion from preju­
dice to tolerance. While the preju­
dices of the time and the manner 
in which the characters cling to 
them, often endow the film with a 
subdued sense of tension which 
makes individual scenes engag­
ing, there is ultimately no over­
riding sense of a story carrying 
the film along. From the begin­
ning it is obvious that Miss Daisy 
will have her doubts, mistreat 
her chauffeur, and eventually 
come to view him as a friend.
Watching the development of 
this friendship, particularly dur­
ing the first half of the film in 
which Hoke attempts to get on 
the good side of his ill-tempered 
employer, is amusing and heart 
warming and so on and so on. As 
the second half of the film pro­
ceeds, the audience is so used to 
the manner in which the stoiy 
unfolds that the only suspense in 
the film arises from waiting for 
one of the principals to die of old 
age and get it over with. The bot­
tom line is, Driving Miss Daisy 
runs out of places to go about 
halfway through its course.
The performances are on par 
with the direction and script. As 
Miss Daisy’s son Boolie, Dan 
Aykroyd presents a serviceable, 
if not inspiring, performance. Par­
ticularly entertaining is watch­
ing Aykroyd’s artificial aging 
through the film. I was truly 
amused at how much the “fully 
aged” Dan Aykroyd resembled 
George Bush. As Boolie’s frivo­
lous wife Florine, Patti Lupone 
acts appropriately snotty, and
demonstrates that, if it were not 
forher performances on the stage 
she would probably go unnoticed.
The leading roles are filled by 
Morgan Freeman and Jessica 
Tandy. Both play their charac­
ters masterfully. Unfortunately, 
in both characterizations there is 
too much of a sense of this being 
THE-BIG-HIGH-CALIBER-OS- 
CAR-TIME-PERFORMANCE. 
Like Dustin Hoffman’s perform­
ance in last year’s Rain Man, the 
characterization is expertly 
handled, but one is never unaware 
of the fact that one is watching an 
actor and actress playing a char­
acter and not an individual char­
acter developing on the screen. 
Undoubtedly, Freeman and 
Tandy will be nominated for 
Golden Globes, Academy Awards 
and so on, but will probably be 
eked out by Tom Cruise’s equally 
studied and uninspiring perform­
ance in Born on the Fourth of 
July.
If the performances in Driving 
Miss Daisy are competent but 
uninspiring, the same can be said 
for the film itself. The characters, 
situations, and images always 
affect the viewer at a superficial 
level but never transcend past 
the silver screen and into the 
realm of reality.
While Driving Miss Daisy 
makes for an entertaining and 
often emotionally engagingmovie, 
it ultimately leaves the viewer 
without a trace. Driving Miss 
Daisy does not offend and it does 
not provoke any original thought. 
This is not necessarily bad, but 
given the talent and resources 
involved, the end result of the 
film should have been more than 
the deep, slightly contented sigh 
with which I greeted the closing 
credits.
UNIX + Amdahl = Opportunity
If your sights are set on the highest level of software achievement, be sure to look in Amdahl’s direction Our 
barrier-breaking UTS* (Amdahl’s UNIX* * operating system for mainframe computers) is bringing the limit­
less potential of UNIX to the world of large-scale, high-performance computer systems. For us, this means 
exciting new business opportunities. For you, it means exciting career opportunities with a company that will 
keep you moving up.
Systems Software
To apply for a position in our Systems Software Group 
you’ll need a BS/CS or equivalent (MS preferred) and 
1 or more years’ basic programming experience in 
UNIX/C language A working knowledge of data com­
munications and 370 assembler is helpful, with expo­
sure to a formal development process a major plus.
Training for Top Achievers
Your career at Amdahl will start with a 3-month, paid 
training program. This program will elevate your 
knowledge of software engineering methods, UTS, 
data communications, and 370 architecture You’ll 
learn from your peers, as well as from seasoned 
industry experts, acquiring skill and perspective that 
will enhance your entire career.
Get Moving Today
If you are ready to move up with the highest achiever in large-scale, high-performance computer systems - don’t 
delay. Find out more about Amdahl, UTS and our Training Program by contacting your placement office or 
sending your resume to Amdahl Corporation, Employment Department 1-11, EO. Box 3470, Mail Stop 336, 
Sunnyvale, California 94088-3470, Attn: Bill McCarthy.
Amdahl Corporation is proud to be an equal opportunity employer through affirmative action
*UI5 is a registered trademark of Amdahl Corporation 
**UN1X is a registered trademark of AT&T.amdahl
Expect The Best
