X-Country Runs Away with Championship see Sports 
Private Music and Alligator Records: Moods and Blues see Diversions
TheTartan
Volume 81, Number 8Carnegie Mellon UniversityNovember 4,1986
Students Erect "Biko Hall" as Apartheid Protest
By JOSH RUBEN
Tartan Staffer iter
On Friday, Students Against Apartheid 
(SAA) constructed a "shanty" on the Cut by 
the flagpole to protest South Africa's racist 
policies and Carnegie Mellon's financial 
interests there. The group intends to inhabit 
the shanty through November 11: the day 
after the Board of Trustees meet to discuss 
divestment. The administration was not 
informed of the shanty and disapproved of 
SAA's tactics.
According to SAA President, Greg 
Staresinic, "We had been planning the 
shanty for about 4 days. We wanted to keep 
it as secret as possible...we were afraid 
someone might try to stop it." The 
structure is a square hut covered with anti­
apartheid slogans. It follows a shanty built 
by students who oppose apartheid at the 
University of Pittsburgh. SAA claims that 
the structure is "a symbol of the conditions 
in which South African blacks are forced to 
live under."
At 11:30 a.m. Friday, while the shanty 
was being completed, a campus policeman 
approached the site and asked if the group 
had authorization from the administration. 
Orginizer Debra Martin said that the group 
did not have authorization because the 
administration had not been informed. The 
officer said that some professors had seen the 
construction and had reported it to Security. 
"You people are tresspassing on private 
property," said the officer, "and you might 
have a problem if you don't have permission 
from the school." The officer contacted Dean 
of Student Affairs Brad Walter and was told, 
over his walkie-talkie, that it was "o.k." for 
the students to procédé. Martin commented 
that "for all the money that we pay for 
tuition, I think we can afford to use a bit of 
land on the Cut."
At noon, however, Walter and Assitant 
Dean of Student Affiars, Lois Cox, went to 
the site and informed the group that "the 
shanty has got to go." Walter reported that
photo by Ben Krokosky
Students gather around SAA shanty to discuss apartheid and divestment
President Cyert had established a policy last 
spring prohibiting the construction of 
shanties on campus by students. Walter 
added that the shanty "does not serve to 
beautify the campus, nor does it represent all 
student opinion." Martin responded by 
saying that this policy is not in the student 
handbook and was unknown to her and the 
members of SAA. From the small crowd 
that gathered, one person called out to 
Walter, "What about the fence?" Members 
stated that students erect tents and paint 
slogans on the fence which do not reflect the 
attitudes of all students but is accepted by 
the university.
Walter explained that Cyert "supports free 
speech," but this type of protest [the shanty] 
cannot be allowed. Both Deans asked to 
speak to Martin in private about the 
incident, but she refused to leave the site. 
Martin told Walter, "I think this is a public 
issue, and we need to keep it in the open."
Both Deans went to Baker Hall to coordinate 
with Campus Security and to talk the 
situation over with Cyert. Three officers 
were instructed to stay on the site. By this 
time, the crowd at the shanty had swelled 
from around 12 or 15 at 11 a.m. to around
40 at 1 p.m.
At 3:00, Cox asked Martin to come to 
Walter's office to "talk things over." Cox 
gave her word that nothing would happen to 
the shanty while Martin, and anyone she 
wished to come with her, were meeting with 
Walter. While the meeting was officially 
"on the record", Walter asked everyone in 
attendance (including members of SAA, 
administration, and members of the Tartan 
staff) to "put down cameras, notes, and tape 
recorders and let's just talk about this." He 
explained that the administration should have 
been notified about the shanty before it was 
built and said that it would be allowed to 
stand if the administration "knew about the
Senate Rules Committee Gets Chairman
By KEVIN POECKING
Tartan Staffwriter 
At last week's Student Senate meeting, 
nominations were made for Chairman of 
the new Rules Committee. The 
nominees were Todd Giles and Allen 
Greenberg. A motion to move into 
executive session cleared the audience 
from the room, including the two 
nominees. For ten minutes Senate met 
privately. Senator Seth Kaplan opened 
the door for the audience, congratulated 
Giles on winning the seat, and told 
Greenberg he was "too controversial."
The next decision for the Senate was to 
vote on where the November elections 
would be held. They decided to suspend 
the rules to discuss locations. Senator 
Peter Lonsky, recommending to hold the 
elections in Skibo as in the past, 
filibustered for over five minutes. The
final decision was to hold the elections in 
Hunt Library both days.
When the meeting began, twenty-three 
Senators were present. Throughout the 
meeting many Senators left to attend more 
important details. One left, returned with 
food and left again. When there were sixteen 
Senators left, Lonsky asked another Senator 
to join him in walking out, knowing that 
this would leave fourteen Senators, which is 
not a quorum of Senate. The other refused, 
but when Leslie Frank announced that she 
had to leave, Lonsky promptly walked out, 
leaving fourteen Senators. Later, Lonsky 
claimed he left because he wanted to break 
the quorum, although he made no motion to 
adjourn the meeting. He believes half of 
Senate should not discuss Senate happenings 
without more representation. Discussion 
continued for about five minutes until 
Senator Mukherjee called for a quorum count
and Chairman Peter Cohen declared the 
meeting adjourned and asked that "all 
Senators interested in Senate" see him 
after the meeting. The meeting ended at 
approximately 8:40. Senators who left 
during the meeting were: Flynn, Frank, 
Goldstein, Hausman, Levy, Lonsky, 
McDonnell, Shipley, and Stachura; those 
remaining were Friedland, Giles, 
Greenberg, Kaplan, Kombrek, Larson. 
Lewis, Maxwell, Mukherjee, Robitshek, 
Scanlon, Staresinic, West, and Chairman 
Cohen. Four Senators who notified 
Cohen that they would be leaving early 
were: Frank, Hausman, Shipley, and
Stachura.
Following a brief discussion with 
remaining Senators, Cohen said he was 
angry and disappointed that the failure to 
have quorum happened and pointed out 
continued on page 4
factors involved." Martin stated that she 
could not give the Dean any definite answers 
because she could not "speak for everyone 
involved." She added that no agreements 
would be made unless they were made in 
writing.
Cox then drafted an official statement 
which stated: "The shanty...erected by 
SAA...will be permitted to remain through 
and including November 11...precautions 
will be taken to insure the safety of the 
occupants and the viability of the 
structure...No additional shanties will be 
erected...On November 11, this group will 
meet to discuss future activities of SAA." 
The document was signed by the 
administration and the SAA representatives.
Martin said that, depending on the outcome 
of the Trustee meeting, "we [SAA] will 
reevaluate our position on November 11. 
The agreement we made with Student Affairs 
does not necessarily mean the shanty will be 
taken down." Should the Trustees vote 
against divestment, many members of SAA 
expressed the desire to keep the shanty up. 
Martin could not speculate on what would 
happen if the group is ordered to dismantle 
the shanty on November 11.
According to SAA President Staresinic, 
"The shanty was built in order to raise 
public/student awareness primarily. 
Secondly, it was to protest apartheid and 
CMU's involvement." Martin stated that 
SAA "did not want to cause a rift in the 
student body." The main goal is to educate 
students and to "generate dialogue" regarding 
South Africa.
The shanty follows a major defeat for SAA 
last Thursday when only 1 out of 25 votes 
went to give jailed South African leader, 
Nelson Mandela an honorary CMU degree.
SAA expects opposition during its vigil. 
Janet Patterson said that now that the group 
has the administration's permission, "people 
will be even more opposed to us." Reaction 
to the group came early when a student 
yelled, "Go back to Pitt and take your naive 
views with you!"
Over the next several days, the group will 
have speakers, poetry readings, and singers at 
the shanty in order to "create awareness." 
Martin said that anyone who "would like to 
learn about South Africa's situation or 
engage in discussion" is welcome anytime.
H| H
photo by Ben Krok<
Exiled South Afrikan Dennis Brutus 
spoke at the shanty Friday night

---------------------------------------------------

Page 2—The Tartan—November 4, 1986
U.S. Removes Staff 
in Lebanon
WASHINGTON, D.C.—The State 
Department has decided to make further 
reductions in the staff of the U.S. embassy 
in Lebanon "for security reasons."
The decision was made last Saturday but 
wasn't announced.
Citing a longstanding policy of not 
divulging deatils of American movements in 
war-tom Lebanon, where seven Americans 
are listed as hostages, a Department 
spokesman declined to say how many 
embassy officials were involved in the staff 
reduction.
The United States maintained a large 
presence in Beirut at one time, but in 1983, 
after 261 American servicemen were killed in 
the bombing of the Marine barracks and the 
U.S. embassy building was heavily damaged 
in another attack, all but essential workers 
were withdrawn.
State Department officials, speaking on 
condition they not be identified, say the 
workers were taken out of the country by 
helicopter to Cyprus.
They declined to say if the latest withdrawl 
had been prompted by a particular threat, or 
was prompted by any other specific 
development.
Reagan Recalls U.S. 
Ambassador to Syria
The Reagan Administration last week 
recalled its Ambassador to Syria after Britain 
accused Syria of having ties to terrorism, but 
the U.S. has two big reasons for holding off 
on further action. One is Syria's potential 
role to find all the help it can to free the
American hostages in Lebanon.
Britain Seeks Joint 
Diplomatic Action 
Against Syria
Britain, meanwhile, has failed to persuade 
its main European allies to take joint 
diplomatic action against Syria. Foreign 
Secretary Sir Geoffrey Howe was unable 
even to gain unanimous support for a joint 
statement by the 12-nation Common 
Market. After a 7-hour debate in 
Luxembourg, the ministers agreed to further 
discuss the issue next month in London.
Aquino Battles 
Communist Rebels
Philippine President Corazon Aquino says 
she may be forced to use what she called the 
"drastic , surgery of warfare" against 
Communist rebels. She told a nurses’ 
convention in Manila that she'd be forced to 
take such action if the insurgents don't 
respond to her peace overtures. Those efforts 
have come under fire from her Defense 
Minister, Juan Ponce Enrile.
Afghans Kill Soviet 
Soldiers
Western diplomats in Afghanistan say anti­
communist guerillas killed 30 Soviet 
soldiers who were part of a regiment 
returning to the Soviet Union. The 
diplomats say Moslem guerillas attacked the 
Soviet Air Defense Regiment on the same 
day ceremonies were held marking the 
withdrawl of some eight-thousand Soviet 
troops — soldiers the Kremlin said it was 
pulling out of Afghanistan in hopes of 
ending U.S. support for Afghanistan's 
rebels.
Return to Iceland?
A Soviet spokesman says he thinks Soviet 
Foreign Minister Eduard Shevardnadze 
and Secretary of State Shultz 
should try to revive the Iceland summit talks 
when they meet again this week. The 
spokesman (Gennady Gerasimov) says the 
Iceland talks "brought to life a lot of hopes" 
and stopping now would only hinder arms
control negotiations.
Smith College 
Divests $23 Million
The nation's largest women’s college will 
rid itself of all investments in firms doing 
business in South Africa. Smith College 
President Mary Maples Dunn says the Board 
of Trustees voted to sell the $23 million in 
stocks over the weekend. Last February, 
students at the Seven Sisters college took 
over the Administration Building for a week 
urging the school to divest.
How 'bout the steam 
tunnels...no one else 
uses them... or the 
Hammerschlag dorm 
roof patio?
The Reagan Administration has been 
unable to line up a Central American 
training site for Nicaraguan rebels. So, U.S. 
officials say they’re planning an instruction 
program in the U.S. The specific site hasn't 
been picked, but officials say the 
Administration is ready to make its choice 
soon, if necessary.
Gov't Allegedly to 
Blame for Challenger 
Disaster
A former "NASA" budget analyst calls it 
"the biggest government cover-up" he's 
aware of. Richard Cook says he wants a 
special prosecutor to investigate whether 
there was any White House pressure to 
launch the space shuttle "Challenger" on its 
fatal mission — so it could coincide with 
the President's State of the Union Address 
planned for that night. Both the White 
House and NASA have steadfastly denied the 
allegations.
So then if your hand 
gets cut off...
Big toes may stick out like sore thumbs_
but for people who've lost thumbs in an 
accident, a toe can be a reliable replacement. 
So say doctors who have performed 60 
successful toe-to-thumb transplants in San 
Francisco. But there are problems, one 
surgeon notes the toe is bigger than the 
average thumb, and the procedure leaves a 
defect on the foot. Still, he gives the 
operation a thumbs up — saying the trade­
off is worth it.
ACLU vs. Meese
The American Civil Liberties Union is 
unhappy with Attorney General Edwin 
Meese's suggestion that employers watch 
workers for signs of drug abuse. Meese said 
yesterday management should watch 
employees in locker rooms, parking lots and 
taverns. A.C.L.U. Executive Director Ira 
Glasser, interviewed on ABC's "Good 
Morning America," says that's a "totalitarian 
kind of response." He says it would hurt 
"tens of millions of innocent people in an 
attempt to find the few who are abusing 
drugs and alcohol." "
A COURSE TO REMEMBER
99-200 THE NUCLEAR AGE
(also available as an H&SS course as History 79-201) 
Should the U.S. develop Star Wars? 
is it possible to ban all nuclear tests? 
Could a nuclear war wipe out our civilization? 
Are the risks of nuclear war increasing? 
Join us to learn the history, the basic facts about nuclear weapons, 
and the perspectives to discuss these and other crucial issues in 
an informed and critical way. 
The course will be taught from two perspectives:
SCIENCE: University Professor (of Physics) Lincoln Wolfenstein 
POLICY: H&SS Associate Dean Michael Salomone
SPRING 1987
Monday 4:30-6:00 pm Baker Hall 225B 
Tuesday 3:30-4:30 pm Adamson Wing
NEW HISTORY COURSES FOR SPRING 1987
79-225 RIOTS, REVOLTS AND REVOLUTIONS: POPULAR POLITICS IN
EUROPE AND AMERICA, 1750 TO THE PRESENT
9 Units
TuTh 1:30/Chapman and Cohen
This course will explore why people have rebelled against established 
authority and what the consequences have been in three countries — 
France, Britain and the United States. The main topics will include 
political revolution, working-class militancy, battles over women's 
suffrage, leftwing and rightwing responses to economic hardship, the 
protests of the 1960's, and the nature of popular politics today.
79-313 PROFESSIONS IN SOCIETY 
9 Units
M 7-9:20 p.m./Devine
This course combines historical perspective and social science 
approaches to deal with professions in contemporary society. The 
course will explain why professional status is so desirable, but 
so hard to achieve; special attention will go to the role of uni­
versities, including Carnegie Mellon, in defining professional 
expertise. Professional obligations, through law and ethics, will 
also be dealt with, and the future of the professions will be explored. 
Are .professions losing autonomy? What new areas can reasonably aspive 
to professional status? Practitioners from various professions will 
present their settings to the class, adding to reading materials drawn 
from several disciplines.
79-348 EUROPEAN CITIES
6 Units (First-half mini course)
MWF 11:30/Lynch
The rise of cities is a vital aspect of European history, and the 
development of European city types is an essential ingredient in 
understanding the phenomenon of urban life. This course will examine 
main trends in European urban history from the late medieval period 
to the 20th century, showing what factors shaped urban growth and 
dealing with sources that reveal the nature of urban life. Theoretical 
approaches to the problem of urbanization will be combined with atten­
tion to the visual and spatial aspects of different types of cities.
79-350 HISTORY OF AMERICAN SPORTS 
9 Units
TuTh 3:00-4:15/Hardy
Taught by Stephen Hardy, a leading authority who also heads a sports 
studies program at Robert Morris College. The course will focus on 
how American sports changed under the impact of wider social and economic 
forces, toward discussing the "business" of contemporary sports and the 
relationship between sports and contemporary social issues.
for this course in the History corridor (BH240).

---------------------------------------------------

November 4, 1986—The Tartan—Page 3
Lies, Fibbery, and 
the Pursuit of 
Happiness
A New York Times/CBS poll finds 
three-quarters of the Americans surveyed 
think it's wrong for the Federal Government 
to lie to them to achieve a foreign policy 
goal. But 53% said they believe the 
government tells the truth only some of the 
time.
jibi- - •
The Next Mets Game
WASHINGTON, D.C.—The World 
Champion New York Mets will travel to 
R.F.K. Stadium in Washington to play the 
Philadelphia Phillies in an exhibition game 
next April 5th — one day before the Major 
League baseball season starts.
City officials and promoters say they're 
hoping the game boosts Washington's 
profile with baseball owners. The city has 
been trying to get a new baseball franchise. 
Promoter Russ Potts says a percentage of 
the gate receipts will go to charity.
The Nation's capital has not had a baseball 
team since the Washington Senators left to 
become the Texas Rangers after the 1971 
season.
The only baseball that has been played in 
R.F.K. Stadium since 1973 has been the 
annual Old Timers baseball classic.
Lyndon Larouche 
Subpeonaed over 
Credit Card Fraud
WASHINGTON, D.C.—Political 
extremist Lyndon Larouche was subpeonaed 
Thursday to face questioning in Federal 
Court in Washington, D.C. about alleged 
credit card fraud by his 1984 Presidential 
campaign committees.
His attorneys are also meeting with
lawyers for a New Jersey band that's 
involved in several lawsuits with Larouche 
and his followers. Odin Anderson, 
Larouche's attorney, has declined to discuss 
the nature of the talks.
Larouche Monday began undergoing 
questioning at a pretrial deposition in 
connection with a series of suits in Federal 
Court in Newark between First Fidelity 
Bank and Larouche and his 1984 Presidential 
campaign committees.
The closed testimony marks the first time 
Larouche has faced questions regarding 
allegations of credit card fraud by his 
organizations and followers.
Albert Besser, the attorney for the bank, 
says Larouche will be questioned for several 
more days.
A Federal Grand Jury in Boston on October 
6th indicted five Larouche-related 
organizations and ten of his followers for 
fraud and conspiracy to obstruct justice.
The indictment charges that during 
Larouche's 1984 fringe campaign for 
president, about $1 million was obtained 
through unauthorized credit card charges from
one thousand people nationwide.
News Blurbs appear courtesy of the 
Associated Press.
IK) YOU
WANT A .TOD?
OB.O.(J.
Business
Opportunities
Conference
Monday-November 17 th 
1 1:00am-5:00pm 
________SKIBO_________
Meet with recruiting representatives from 
national corporations and discuss 
employment opportunities.
[Sponsored by AIME]
Power Failure Closes Buildings, 
Hundreds of Hackers Left 
Homeless
By KARL BARNHART
Tartan Assistant News Editor
Last weekend, a power outtage closed 
Hamerschlag, Scaife, and Wean Halls. 
According to Campus Security records, a fire 
alarm in Hamerschlag went off at 11:56 pm 
Saturday due to the power failure. 
Electricity was not completely restored to all 
of Hamerschlag until Monday afternoon.
According to Neal Binstock, Director of 
Facilities and Administration at the Physical 
Plant, staff electricians responded to the 
"switch gear room" located behind 
Hamerschlag at 1:15 am Sunday; he arrived 
at 7:00 am. They determined that a massive 
fuse had blown and decided to replace it. 
When they did, it immediately blew, too.
At about 10:00 am Sunday, Binstock 
decided to disconnect the power to 
Hamerschlag, Scaife, and Wean so that they 
could test the 4,160 volt transformer that the 
fuses were, attached to. Because the 
buildings would have no power, they were
evacuated. The evacuation was strictly 
precautionary; no one had been hurt. They 
determined the transformer was defective and 
decided fo leave it until Monday morning 
when they could buy replacement parts. By 
late Sunday night, power was restored to 
Wean and Scaife, but approximately one- 
third of Hamerschlag was still without 
electricity.
On Monday, instead of fixing or replacing 
the transformer, which would take a 
minimum of three weeks, they decided to 
bypass the faulty transformer and route its 
load through a nearby, larger transformer. 
By early afternoon, complete power was 
restored to all of Hamerschlag.
The cause of the transformer's problem has 
not been determined; it could have been 
either age or a defect in the construction.
Binstock stressed his satisfaction in the 
cooperation between those involved the 
evacuation. "Plant personnel, security, and 
students all worked together..."
photo by John Kaplan
What is this man doing? see page 7...
A representative from the Pennsylvania 
Colle'Îè'-^^^metry ^ÇO) will presento nrnirrom in
contact Dr. W. Ann Robinson,?î- Pre­
ssions ina program oifi 
Scaife Hall
University on Wednesday, 5
from 11:00 a.m. to ljvQQ^^s-o,v>^ vV''' 
Followin^^r^p^^^^entatïÔii, Mr. 
Robert McIntyre, Admissions
Officer, will be available to answer 
students' questions on admissions, health 
care careers and the profession of 
optometry.
The program is open to interested 
college and high school studetns and their 
parents. For more information, please
Colk^o'^^i^tometry was the first 
optometric college in the
natioi#v^^^felure-aPProvedDoctor ,"^y^tometry ' '(OfDi) degree. 
Today, 5w&tudents are enrolled in the 
four-year curriculum consisting of 
classroom, laboratory and clinical work. 
One of 15 optometric schools in the 
nation, the College has produced 87 
percent of the practicing optometrists in 
Pennsylvania and 20 percent of those 
nationwide.
USE SYSTAT ON YOUR PC TO GET MAINFRAME CAPABILITY WITH MICRO CONVENIENCE.
If you’re tired of waiting for output, try SYSTAT on 
your microcomputer. SYSTAT is the only micro­
computer statistics package to perform advanced 
applied statistics in economics, psychology, biology, 
technology, and political science.
No other micro package has the scope of SYSTAT. Simple 
and multivariate analyses, graphics, tables, unbalanced AN0VA, MAN0VA, repeated measures, discnminant, cluster analysis, multidimensional scaling, non-linear modeling, time series, ARIMA. log linear, multinomial logit, probit, tobit, 
Rasch models, simultaneous equations - all in a compact package with simple, integrated commands and a spreadsheet data editor.
Meet your statistics deadlines with the miao package professional statisticians have chosen
Or wait in line.
IBM-PC/XT/AT7 Apple II? lie? Macintosh7 VAX 7 Kaypro’" HP 1507 HP 90007 DEC 
Rainbow™ Alpha Micro7 MS-D0S7 CP/M7 UNIX'“$595 USA and Canada. $695 Foreign 
Site licenses and quantity prices available
SYSTAT
SYSTAT, Inc
2902 Central Street Evanston, IL 60202 
312 M4.5C7Q

---------------------------------------------------

Page 4—The Tartan—November 4, 1986
Minutes of the Student Senate, Oct. 28,1986
Meeting called to order 7:00pm. 
Present:Cohen, Flynn, Frank, 
Friedland, Giles, Goldstein, Greenberg, 
Hausman, Kaplan, Kombrek, Larson, 
Levy, Lewis, Lon sky, Maxwell, 
McDonnell, Mukheijee, Robitshek, 
Scanlon, Shipley, Stachura, Staresinic, 
West.
Ex-officio members: Dean Cox, 
Dean Walter, Denburg, Chu.
Absent: Ayre (exc), Patnaik (exc), 
Salley.
Ex-officio members: DeLeon
(excused)
Audience Participation: none.
Dean Walter: no report.
Dean Cox:
President:Jim Denburg Sent 
memo to Oscar Meyer on Retail Stores 
Committee. Will be hearing from him 
soon. Academic freedom committee is 
next week. Would like some input. Dr. 
Cyert is donating $500.00 for a post- 
Bangles party at Scotland Yard. 
SDC:Leanne Chu: Trip to
Georgetown on Nov. L 
IFC:Mike Ross: President’s Cup.
Series of fundraisers.
Chairman:Peter Cohen: Fred
Rogers will speak at next week’s 
meeting. Will be an informal Senate 
meeting on Nov* 11 in Rm. 13. Senate 
elections will be in Hunt Library on 
both election days. Give me your name 
if you want to be on the Rules 
committee.
Treasurer:Fred DeLeon
Academic Affairs: No report 
Campus Affairs: Senator Hausman
will do a small scale assessment 
of Shuttle service.
Senator Lonsky: There is a high 
quality copying center in Wean Hall for 
faculty only. Students don't have access 
to high quality copiers on campus. 
Funding & Recognition: A special 
allocation of $2500 and a loan 
of $2000 was granted to AB Lectures to 
obtain Rev. Jesse Jackson as a speaker. 
Public Relations: Nov 8 and 9 we 
will be cleaning and painting 
the office.
Rules: no report
Old Business: Fiscal policy
a ammendment failed to be removed from 
the table.
New Business: Senator Robitshek
motioned : If Jesse Jackson 
speaks, his speech not be solely that of 
his campaign nor solely that 
of a religious nature. Motion passed. 
Senator Giles moved that Senate acccpt a 
resolution supporting the 
"Fast for a World Harvest” sponsored by 
the Campus Ministry Council,
Motion passed.
Senator Kaplan moved to Make the 
Objectivist Club non-fiinded 
because of their political nature. Motion 
tabled.
Senator Giles moved to Have a minimum 
of 25% of Senate on Rules 
Committee.
Announcements:
Meeting Adjourned 8:53 p.m.
Crime and Incident Report
Senate in Review
continued from page 1
that this many leaving a meeting is not 
common. He said he would like to see 
future amendments to the Constitution 
requiring Senators to give an excuse before 
being allowed to leave the room and, if not 
excused, be recorded as one-half of an 
absence.
Senators passed a motion to give 
$2,500 plus a loan of $2,000 to AB 
Lectures. AB and Spirit would like the 
Reverend Jesse Jackson to speak at Carnegie
Mellon. One amendment to the motion was 
to make sure Jackson does not speak on his 
candidacy in 1988, nor solely on religion. 
Another motion was passed to have a Fast 
Day where students give up one, two or all 
three of their contract meals. The money 
saved will be used to alleviate world hunger. 
The motion passed with no objections.
Fred Rogers will be at tonight's Senate 
meeting. All those interested are welcome 
to attend the open forum discussion. Senate 
meetings begin at 7:00 p.m. in the Wherrett 
Room.
10/23 3:04 AM Criminal Mischief - Three 
white males were apprehended while breaking 
small trees and moving around a 
Yolkswagon in the Morewood Gardens 
parking lot. There was no damage to the car.
10/23 9:31 AM Suspicious Person - A 
white, "scruffy", college aged male was 
reported to be acting suspiciously on the 
third floor of Hunt library. He borrowed a 
pencil from a student, and then followed the 
student out of the library. The male was not 
identified.
10/23 12:02 AM Theft - An unknown 
person stole a navy blue and beige purse 
from Hunt library. The purse contained 
credit cards and $55 cash.
?
10/23 12:46 PM Main line water break at 
rear of Morewood Gardens. There was 
extensive flooding, and E-tower was 
evacuated due to danger to transformers.
10/23 5:22 PM Theft - Key stolen from a 
student's room in Morewood Gardens.
10/24 12:55 AM Noise Complaint -
Residents of Morewood Gardens complained 
about loud music and fireworks from the 
fraternities.
10/24 4:22 AM City police apprehended 
two CMU students with 2 stolen street 
signs. The students were turned over to 
CMU security. There were no arrests.
10/24 9:25 PM Criminal Attempt - Two 
students that share a locker in the gym, 
noticed that their knapsack had been searched 
through. There was nothing taken.
10/24 9:00 PM Clyde Street resident 
complained that CMU students were 
throwing ice out of an apartment window and 
hitting the resident's car.
10/25 2:49 AM Several fraternity members 
were crossing Morewood Avenue when a red 
Porsche turned onto Morewood from Fifth at 
a high rate of speed. After the car reportedly 
almost hit the males, the driver stopped, and 
a fight ensued. The males claimed the driver 
stated, "Well, I'll try to run you over
again...", and backed the car up. The driver 
claimed that the males attempted to pull him 
from his car. There was slight damage to 
the car.
10/25 6:44 AM Theft - CMU carpenter 
reported that a bucket o' tools was stolen 
from Porter Hall 100. The tools were valued !
at $270.
10/26 11:45 AM A small fire broke out in 1
4302 Wean Hall due to the power shut down 
in the building.
10/26 7:26 PM Noise Complaint - A 
Devon Road resident complained of loud 
noise from a fraternity where a small band 
was practicing.
10/26 5:58 PM Theft - An unknown person 
stole signs and posts for the sleeping bag 
program from Admission office in Warner 1
Hall.
10/27 5:06 AM Criminal Mischief - Ladies 
bathroom across from Room 123 Margaret 
Morrison Hall was badly vandalized. A 
mirror and 15-20 wall tile were tom down, 
and a shelf was partially pulled from the 
wall.
10/27 8:39 PM Criminal Mischief - The 
tires were slashed on a car parked on Devon 
Road. The car belonged to a CMU student.
10/27 6:08 PM Disorderly Conduct and 
Lewd Behavior - Several males wearing only 
tennis shoes and underwear caused 
disturbances in the banking machine and 
Grey Matter areas of Skibo. Two of the 
males were stopped by campus security.
10/28 10:11 AM Criminal Mischief - 
Unknown person scraped left rear quarter 
panel of a student's car parked on Tech 
Street. The scrape was 6-7 inches long.
10/28 11:48 PM Theft - A backpack that 
had accidentally been left overnight in Kiltie 
Cafe was stolen. The backpack and contents 
were valued at $160.
10/29 10:18 PM Theft - A six-foot long 
couch was stolen from an open lounge area 
near CFA room 1 IB.
10/30 12:24 AM Theft - Macintosh 
Pagemaker program disk stolen from 
Margaret Morrison room 15. The disk was 
valued at $400.
10/30 5:36 AM Criminal Attempt -
Security noticed a white male removing a 
blue couch from 1st floor E-tower of 
Morewood Gardens. The suspect fled into 
the building and was not identified.
Go where the ACTION is...
Write fer Di-ver-zhuns
call Bruce at x2111. and maybe you 
can meet Joe Bob Briggs
NEW YORK
THANKSGIVING 
ROUND TRIP
VIA
USA1R
Depart Pittsburgh Nov 26,5:10pm 
Depart Newark Nov 30, 5:40pm
$118°° *
?Seats are limited 
?Prices subject to change
TRAVEL ENTERPRISE, INC. 
366-7855
We feature GM cars 
like this Chev V Chevette
Honor Roller
National wants to put you on 
their honor roll You can rent a 
car if you're 18 or older, have a 
valid driver's license, current 
student I D. and a cash deposit 
Stop by and fill out a short cash 
qualification form at least 24- 
hours in advance.
You pay for gas used and return 
car to renting location. Most 
major credit cards accepted.
S<m-discountable rate appliet to Ckevy Ckei*tte or stmilw • -tr and is subject to change without noti< • Kate* slightly tower for drivers over 25 Specific cars subfect to aimtlabtltty. Certain daily minimum* apply Weekend rate available from moon Thursday to Monday. Call for details.
$24
95PER DAY 
WEEKENDS
100 miles per day included. 
Additional mileage 20« per mile.
ÆT National Car Rental.
Carnegie-Mellon deserves National attention.®
261-5500 j 434 Boulevard of the Allies 
682-1444 t 4621 Forbes Avenue (Oakland)

---------------------------------------------------

The Realization of Andrew
An Open Invitation to the Campus Community
Thursday, November 6 
3:30 - 4:30pm 
Bureau Of Mines Auditorium
An overview of the distributed computing network, to be officialy 
inaugurated November 11. Discussion by John P. Crecine, senior vice 
president for academic affairs, and William Y. Arms, vice president for 
academic services. Andrew demonstration by Professor David Miller and 
student Diane Burton.
Beginning at 4:30pm, a three part overview of the Andrew System will be 
presented by a panel from the Information Technology Center and 
University Computing Center.
All are welcome to attend!
ÇST-
Bwsdi
PR25ent5
COMBINED AUDITION TDl/IR
for
BUSCH GARDENS - WILLIAMSBURG, VIRGINIA 
BUSCH GARDENS - TAMPA, FLORIDA
America’s premier theme parks are searching for 
singers, dancers, musicians, variety artists, actors, 
technicians, and supervisors. You could be a part of the magic that makes Busch Gardens come to life! So get 
your act together and ‘shine’ at our 1987 auditions.s
Audition Dates:
PHILADELPHIA, PA
Tuesday, December 2nd, 
12-5 p.m.
Walnut Street Theatre 
9th and Walnut Streets 
Fifth Floor
PITTSBURGH, PA
Sunday, November 23rd,
12-5 p.m.
Point Park College 
Lawrence Hall Dance Studio No. 1
Note: Dancers must bring a prepared
combination. Cassette taped music only
Q Busch EntertainmentCorporation
ONf O» tHl ANMf USC« BUSCH C OMPANH S
An Affirmativ« Action/Equal Opportunity Employer M/FJH
DEBRA ABELL X-C- dermatologist
Easily accessible by bus from CMU
Ave,Suite 102, Oakland MasterCard Visaaccepted 
682-5050 Call for appointment
This holiday season, 
get the'We Stuff’ 
at the right price.
Now you can get the competitive 
edge when classes begin in January. With a 
Macintosh™ personal computer, and all the 
write extras.
We call it the Macintosh Write Stuff " 
bundle. You'll call it a great deal! Because 
when you buy a Macintosh “Write Stuff 
bundle before January 9,1987, you'll receive 
a bundle of extras—and save $250.
Not only will you get your choice of a 
Macintosh 512K Enhanced or a Macintosh 
Plus, you’ll also get an Image Writer™ 11 
printer, the perfect solution for producing 
near letter-quality term papers or reports, 
complete with graphs, charts, and 
illustrations.
Plus, you'll get MacLightning, 
the premier spelling checker con­
taining an 80,000 word dictionary
thesaurus, medical or legal dictionaries. 
Together with your favorite Macintosh word 
processing software, you can transform 
your notes into the clearest, most letter 
perfect papers you ever turned out. And 
turned in on time.
What s more, there’s a Macintosh 
Support Kit filled with valuable accessories 
and computer care products from 3M * 
Complete with all the things you need to 
keep your Macintosh running long after 
you’ve graduated
Let us show you how to get through 
college better, faster, and smarter Stop in 
and see us for more information
CMU Computer Store 
University Computing Center
Coati Whir Mjfèm U* C NHb ^fflt Comfttkr Im Afpk ami *r Affit lago mr rfttrmJIm m s Irmátrnart of fcnW tqMwrr tac*

---------------------------------------------------

The Yearbooks are Coming! 
The Yearbooks are Comin^
The long-awaited 1986 Thistle Yearbook will be distributed on:
Thursday, November 6 
Friday, November 7 
Monday, November 10
10:30am-4:30pm
Skibo 46-A
Receipt or I.D. required for book pick-up
Limited number of '86 Thistles still available 
$20.00 without pre-order
The Yearbooks are Comiig!
"Ululili
ritto
THISTLE
Yearbook
funded by Student Activities Fee

---------------------------------------------------

November 4, 1986—The Tartan—Page 7
Mailbox Vandalism Increases on Campus
photo by John Kaplan
Business 
Opportunities 
, Conference 
I (Update
I B> ERIC W. LEULIETTE
| Tartan Staffwriter
| preparations for CMU's first 
Business Opportunities Conference 
(BOC) are running smoothly, according 
to a meeting of the committee arranging the event. With two weeks 
left before the conference, nearly twenty 
firms have confirmed that their 
representatives will be coming to CMU 
to recruit for management majors. 
Several Industrial Management majors 
have spent the past week phoning 
companies and picking up pick "While 
You Were Out" messages from 
companies from Pennsylvania to New 
York.
At the meeting Roger Aguinaldo, the 
chairman of the BOC, checked to see 
that arrangements for parking, tables, 
lunch, and, publicity were all in order. 
The BOC, an offshoot of the 
Association for Industrial Management 
and Economics, expects the companies 
such as Prudential, Citycorp, Equitable 
Bank, Donnelly Directory, Home's, 
Arthur Anderson, Kaufmann's, Mellon 
Bank, and Procter & Gamble to attend. 
Aguinaldo found it hard to convince 
firms from Boston to make the trip to 
Pittsburgh. He found it hard to 
convince companies in Harvard, Tufts, 
and Northwestern's backyard that CMU 
was a special enough to visit.
| Allen Cubell, who is in charge of the 
conference's publicity, commented, 
We’re off to a great start for our first 
year - don't miss it. The people who 
attend will learn a lot about their 
futures in business and management.' 
Aguinaldo had more specific advice for 
the people who attend the mid- 
November conference. "We need all 1M 
and economics students - freshmen, 
sophomores and juniors - to flood the 
conference. To impress these 
companies, dress up and bring a 
resume. If everyone acts professional 
these companies will keep coming 
back."
The conference, to be held in the 
Skibo ballroom from 11 a.m. to 5 p.m. 
on November 17, is open to all
students.
j Duquesne Offers 
I Psych Course
Duquesne University's Department of
¦ Psychology is offering a one-credit graduate 
prninicourse, Systematic Phenomenology of 
M Everyday Consciousness , November 14-16 
IJ in room 104 College Hall.
The course will be taught by Mihaly 
H Csikszentmihalyi, chairman of the 
I Department of Behavioral Sciences and 
I Committee on Human Development at the 
I University of Chicago.
The course is free and open to the public,
I though regular graduate tuition will be 
i charged if the course is taken for credit.
J| For more information, call 434-6520.
lil ol<' took...every week I show up ] 
ft 50nnewhere in this paper begging ] 
ft ar|d pleading for news writers, so far 
1 one Person has responded, one, fer ] 
S crVin out loud. 1 just don' know what ta j 
I d° you people even read these 
I things? i mean really, what do you 
:¦ want? i just don' know, look, why don' 
m y°u do something , make us both feel 
Igood...write news...call x2i 11....
By JEAN COOKSEY
Tartan Staffwriter
There have been increasing numbers of 
vandalized mailboxes in the past few 
months, causing serious problems for 
University employees and students alike.
Mark Comunale, Director of the Dormitory 
Mailrooms, first noticed the problem last 
spring, when three mailboxes in Morewood 
Gardens were destroyed. This semester, 
Morewood Gardens remains the problem 
area: the count has now increased to ten 
mailboxes. Many of the boxes have had 
their covers literally tom or pried off, and 
can no longer be used as mail holders. Other 
vandalism involves removing the 
combination dial, which can be replaced, so 
these boxes are still functional. Fortunately, 
no reports of stolen mail have yet been 
heard. The main problem concerns the 
increasing shortage of mailboxes in the 
dorm.
Comunale sees the problem as one of 
security. He notes that no vandalism has 
occured in either Donner Hall or Mudge. In 
Donner, all of the mailboxes are on one 
wall, directly facing the Desk Attendant's 
desk. The same is true of Mudge. In 
Morewood Gardens, however, the boxes 
occupy three walls, only one of which is 
visible to the Desk Attendant. In addition, 
the Desk Attendant is enclosed "in a booth; 
he can't hear anything." The DA cannot 
leave his post either.
The sights of vandalism would seem to 
bear out these assumptions: covers have
been tom off of boxes along the A-Tower 
corridor and by the Morewood Gardens 
Library. None have been removed along the
CA&T Offers 
Forum on 
Intellectual 
Properties
On Wednesday, November 5, The Center 
for Art and Technology will sponsor a panel 
discussion entitled "Intellectual Properties: 
Owning, Selling Rights, and the Individual." 
Featured panelists are: Randy Komisar, legal 
representative for Apple Computers; Trudy 
Ludwig, Office of the Provost; Amie 
Silverman and Dave Tungate, from the law 
firm Eckert, Seamens, Sharin, and Mellot.
The discussion will be held from 3 to 4:30 
in Wean Hall 7500. A reception from 2 to 3 
will preceed the talk in Wean 5409.
By KAREN WOODILLA
Tartan Staffwriter
Carnegie Mellon Resident Assistants 
(R.A.s) hosted 21 R.A.s from Wheeling 
College, West Virginia University, Robert 
Morris College, Oberlin College and Lehigh 
University for an informal exchange on 
October 25 and 26. Michael Murphy, 
Assistant Director of Housing for Residence 
Life, and the four Area Coordinators — the 
R.A. managers - organized the program.
"We thought it would be helpful for R.A.s 
from different schools to get together and 
talk about issues — everything from alcohol 
education to more faculty involvement in the 
residence halls." Murphy said. "This year’s 
program was expanded from last spring’s 
R.A. exchange with Oberlin College, and we 
hope to visit Oberlin for another exchange in 
the Spring."
The highlight of the weekend was an 
informal information exchange on Saturday 
afternoon: "R.A.s from each school gathered 
in groups and wrote down three questions 
about being an R.A," said Linda K. Seifert, 
Oakland/Shadyside Area Coordinator, who 
helped organize the information session with 
Teresa Campbell, Morewood Area 
Coordinator.
Malicious mailbox mutilation in Morewood
wall which is visible to the DA. 
Combination dials have been removed along 
that wall, though.
Comunale notes the difficulty in replacing 
mailboxes: "whole sections of boxes must 
be replaced for every box vandalized," he 
says. Because of the way the boxes are 
built, they cannot be fixed individually. 
This, says Comunale, is where the problem 
lies for students. "Tuition is going to go up 
because all of these boxes have to be 
replaced together. The students are going to 
end up paying for the security," Comunale 
states. Unless there is proof that mail is 
actually taken out of a box, national postal 
inspectors have no jurisdiction in penalizing 
offenders. Carnegie Mellon can punish 
offenders for damaging the property, though, 
because the mailboxes are owned and 
operated by the university.
The Student Handbook states that students
"Their questions fell into three topics: the 
extent of personal responsibility, enforcing 
policies, and programming. The groups 
discussed points about each topic, then 
shared their reactions with all the R.A.s: 
that was important because Q0% of what 
people learn is through second-hand 
experience," Seifert explained. "The 
diversity of the R.A.s really worked out 
well: the questions initiated a very lively 
discussion about conservative and liberal 
residence hall policies."
"After talking about the special topics it 
was great to hear the debate." said Michelle 
Osherow, R.A. at 5-C&D Morewood. "The 
session put CMU’s policies in a better 
perspective; I think twice about why 
policies are there. Although each school had 
different policies, we all felt the same way 
about everything from planning events to 
suicide. We all have the same goal."
Visiting R.A.s arrived Saturday morning 
and toured the CMU campus with CMU 
R.A.s. After the information session, R.A.s 
gathered for dinner in Oakland and later, a 
fire-side social in Mudge House. Dave 
O'Leary, Hill Area Coordinator, worked with 
Dana Rinehart, R.A. in 4-A&B Morewood, 
to provide a comfortable setting for the
makes Mark mad!
who damage "Carnegie Mellon property 
assigned to their use....will be charged with 
the cost of restoring to its proper condition 
any property which through their negligence 
or misuse has been damaged." In the case of 
mailbox vandalism, students may be charged 
with the replacement of whole sections of 
mailboxes, because of their design. Further 
disciplinary action can include fines, and 
possible suspension or expulsion, under 
Group Three and Group Four classifications 
of "Violations of University Regulations." 
As of yet, no one has been caught.
Comunale has become more worried as the 
extent of the problem has increased. He does 
not want to see students pay for the damage. 
He is hoping that students will be more 
aware of the problem and how it affects 
them: "If they know about it, and how it 
hurts them, maybe they will speak up if 
they notice something happening."
exchange.
"I felt comfortable talking with the visiting 
R.A.s during the social events, and I really 
enjoyed talking about situations with my 
guest." said Ed Walters, R.A. in 4-E 
Morewood, who hosted a Wheeling College 
R.A.
"I learned a lot about program styles. 
There are many things to try, and many 
ways to do things differently," said Handojo 
Kusnadi, R.A. in A-tower Doherty and an 
R.A. host.
The R.A. Exchange was also a special time 
for Area Coordinators: "The R.A. Exchange 
gave me new ties with my alma mater, West 
Virginia University — R.A. friends that were 
freshmen when I graduated came to our 
exchange as seniors," said Mary Beth 
Angotti, Area Coordinator for Mudge House 
and Hill Apartments, who worked with 
Seifert to recruit the visiting R.A.s. "It 
reaffirmed to me why I will work in the 
office on Sunday afternoons," Seifert said.
Twelve R.A.s will represent Carnegie 
Mellon at the Mid Atlantic College and 
University Housing Organization 
(MACUHO) Conference at Rutgers 
University. R.A.s from 350 schools in 
eight states will participate.
Student demonstrates possible cause of damaged mailbox doors, photo by John Kaplan
CMU RA Exchange a Valuable Experience

---------------------------------------------------

Page 8—The Tartan—November 4,1986
CMU Greeks' Blood 
Drive is a Major Success
By KAREN WOODILLA
Tartan Staffwriter
Central Blood Bank officials estimate that
22 pints of blood were gathered at a Blood 
Drive sponsored by Alpha Tau Omega 
fraternity last Saturday, bringing the total 
contribution from this semester's two CMU 
Greek-sponsored blood drives to 192 pints.
"We sponsor a blood drive every semester," 
said Chris Koscho, Vice President of Alpha 
Tau Omega. "Two years ago we made it 
mandatory for all brothers to give blood each 
semester."
"We really appreciate CMU students and 
faculty taking time to save strangers' lives," 
said Marge Brown, Director of Public 
Relations at Central Blood Bank. "Closed 
mills and high layoffs have prompted large 
numbers of people to leave the Pittsburgh 
area. We have a shrinking donor base. The 
October 1 blood drive was the biggest one- 
day drive the CMU fraternities and sororities 
have sponsored in at least 25 years." The 
Central Blood Bank supplies blood for 32 
greater-Pittsburgh hospitals, who require 500 
pints every day.
Inter-Fraternity Council officers record the 
percentage of members who donate blood 
from each house. Results will influence the 
outcome of the President's Cup, an on-going 
competition for CMU Greeks emphasizing 
community service and house spirit.
And in other Greek news: Kappa Alpha 
Theta sorority sponsors a non-perishable 
food drive throughout November. "The drive 
began in October, and we're trying to beat 
last years' contribution. We welcome 
donations," said Kathy Breza, Activities and 
Services Chair at Kappa Alpha Theta. 
"We'll donate the food to a Fifth Avenue 
Soup Kitchen around Thanksgiving." Last 
Monday Kappa Alpha Theta carved 
pumpkins for The Salvation Army 
Children's Center in Oakland.
Delta Upsilon fraternity is coordinating on- 
campus support for The Amerian Heart 
Association's Big Heart Basketball 
Tournament which will run from Friday, 
November 21 through Sunday, November 
23. "The tournament features four local 
college teams — and this is the first year our 
women's teams will compete," said Bruce 
Gerson, CMU Sports Information Director. 
"Jim Banner, the Athletic Department 
Director, put together the tournament idea 
four years ago. He's a member of the 
American Heart Assoiation Board of 
Directors."
Bill Richardson, Chapter Relations officer 
for Delta Upsilon, described the chapter's 
involvement in this way: "The American
Heart Association solicited Greek support 
this year. We'll orchestrate ticket sales, 
postering and cleanup. We're planning half- 
time entertainment, which may include tug- 
of-wars and a half-court shoot. We want to 
encourage people to support the 
tournament." Tickets will go on sale this 
week.
Phi Kappa Theta fraternity and Kappa 
Kappa Gamma sorority raised $500 for 
Children’s Hospital during the "Haunted 
House Mixer" on Halloween night. "Phi 
Kap and Kappa pledges sold, made and 
delivered 312 carmel apples during the week, 
and the mixer — open to all students for a 
donation — featured costume contests and 
raffle prizes. We worked hard to get 
community contributions and coordinate the 
houses," said Whitney Gordon, Kappa Kappa 
Gamma Social and Philanthropy Chair.
"The Haunted House Mixer kicks off our 
Children's hospital campaign," said Carl 
Messiano, Phi Kappa Theta's coordinator for 
the project. "We'll also sponsor a mural 
painting booth, where people can print their 
hands on a wall to 'lend a hand' for 
Children's Hospital. And, our chapter will 
visit Children's Hospital for an entire week 
of evenings this semester."
"Their event will contribute money to our 
Internal Annual Fund," said Jim Cusimano, 
Assistant Director of Development at 
Children's Hospital. "The Board of Directors 
allocates this fund to meet the Hospital's 
most pressing needs. This year our goal is 
$900,000: we want to establish a Pediatric 
Bone Marrow Center — a service that is 
currently unavailable in this area. Every 
dime is needed and well-spent."
Congratulations are in order for the 
Brothers and Pledges of Tau Chapter of 
Kappa Delta Rho fraternity: Kappa Delta 
Rho National reinstated their Charter on 
October 18. "Tau Chapter left CMU in 
1939 for insurance reasons. A group of five 
guys got together in the Spring of 1983 and 
worked to reintroduce our chapter to the 
CMU community. We now have enough 
members to receive our Charter, and we're 
really excited about that." said Dan Pavord, 
President.
Greek information should be placed in the 
Tartan mailbox, Skibo, c!o Karen Woodilla.
landa ¡now?
********
ldx^ldidÿ
Production is looking for a few good (maybe 
not so good) people who fit the above 
description. If you're interested call Albrecht 
Powell here at The Tartan at x2111.
There are three positions and Work-Study is preferred.
1PA
Arms Lecture Series Begins
By LISA S. KAGEL
Tartan Staffwriter
This past Thursday, the first in a series 
of three talks concerning verification and 
compliance was held. The lectures are 
sponsored by Engineering and Public 
Policy and Professor Lincoln Wolfenstein 
of the physics department.
Verification and compliance are the 
issues concerning maintaining the 
agreements of a nuclear arms treaty. As 
Theresa Morris, secretary for EPP 
explained it, "Two countries want to sign 
an arms agreement limiting testing and 
development. But how does each country 
know that the other one is keeping the 
agreement. For example, they may each 
have satellites checking to make sure the 
other country is not testing." Verification 
and compliance concerns assuring that 
each country is following all treaty 
agreements.
These lectures are a part of President 
Cyert's committee on International Peace 
and security. This is a new committee 
dedicated to education and research about 
these world-wide concerns. Members of 
the committe want to find the 
"...intersection between technology and 
public policy" in these issues, according
to Wolfenstein.
Carnegie Mellon University has begun 
to develop an academic program for 
research that includes courses for 
graduates and undergraduates. New 
courses at the graduate and undergraduate 
level such as "Technical and Political 
Issues in Arms Control and Defense 
Policy" and "International Politics" have 
already been offerred in conjunction with 
this program.
Additionally, graduate students and two 
post-doctoral candidates are studying this 
field of research which Carnegie Mellon 
feels is an important area for research and 
education.
The first talk, given by David W. 
Hafemeister of California Polytechnic 
State University on October 30, discussed 
"Arms Control Verification: The
Technologies that make it possible." On 
November 6 at 4:30, Michael Krepon 
from the Carnegie Endowment for 
International Peace will cover 
"Verification and Compliance: Problems 
and Misconceptions." The final lecture 
will be given by Lynn R. Sykes of 
Colombia University; he will explore 
"Verifying Test Ban Treaties" on 
December 3 at 4:30.
Entrepreneur's Workshop Offered
Carnegie Mellon University economist 
Otto A. Davis and a group of his graduate 
students will teach a series of individualized 
instruction classes showing people how to 
start their own businesses.
The classes are sponsored by the 
Wilkinsburg YWCA and will be held there 
starting November 11.
Davis said that he wants to encourage 
entrepreneurship. “Studies have demonstrated 
that those regions which are good at creating 
and nuturing new enterprises also fare well 
in the process of job creation,” he said. 
“Smaller businesses are employing a larger 
proportion of the workforce at a time when 
manufacturing industris are declining,” he 
said.
Davis described the typical person who 
starts a new business as “middle-aged and in 
the midst of a negative career 
experience—having been fired, laid off, or 
believing that his or her career is not going 
to advance or has come to a dead end.
“Because of plant closings and industry
layoffs, the Pittsburgh region has a surplus 
of such people. Yet the area does not rank 
high in the start of new businesses,” he 
added.
Davis explained that the entrepreneurial 
beginner has few places to turn for help. > 
“Across the nation, local economic ! 
development policy assists only those who 
are already in business or who have plans | 
well on the way to create their business,” he 
said. “It ignores the initial, tentative and 
formulative stages in the creation of new 
ventures.”
Davis characterized the Wilkinsburg classes '* 
as “an experiment to see whether this kind 
of effort might be a productive thrust for our 
area and our community.”
Those who are interested should call or 
write the Wilkinsburg YWCA at 742 Ross 
Street, Pittsburgh, PA 15221 (371-2712) for 
an application form. An initial meeting for 
those who have completed the application 
will be held at the YWCA at 7 p.m., 
Tuesday, November ll.
SHOULD YOU 
BECOME 
A PRIEST?
Here's an opportunity to find out...
A special program of 
"DISCERNMENT' for the college 
student is now being offered by 
the Catholic Diocese of 
Pittsburgh...
Weekend of 
November 7, 8, 9,1986 Topic - 
"The Contemporary Church"
Weekend of 
March 6, 7, 8,1987 Topic - 
"The Priesthood"
Call Father Bob Clarke 
412-928-5836
J

---------------------------------------------------

WHAT‘£ PHIL.O*0|>HY 
FO* YOV 
LAT<LY?
oO- *00: Philosophic«^ Methods and Morals (Glymourl TTh 1:30- 2.50
P.'iio'SCDhy unifies th3 sciences, arts anti human,; es. Philosophy has, given birth to 
rnanv of the soenccs. and has torrr.-jd much of our moral perspective This course 
Aiil in.reduce students to ph,pritcal thi:iki,vj apa wiil survey the contributions 
that 10th Century philosophy has made to science and to out understanding of cth.cs 
and the arts. Several contemporary philosc;.nicai problems will Le pos.jrl in the course.
This is an introductory ''cujrse that presupposes no previous hock ground in 
Philosophy. Brief quizzes based on reading and lectures will be given eao.n wee*. and 
wtli determine the final grade.
Topics to be covered i.-.elude
• The divergence of the humanistic and scientific cultures in out time.
• Philosophy as the theory of reasoning in the sciences, in ethics and in
aesthetics.
• Logic ar.d the theory of demonstrative reasoning from Aristotle to the 
present.
• Moral reasoning, supjef.ti vif y ¿jnd utilitarianism.
• Prohabalistic reBsynir.3. utility 3nd the Dirtn of micro-economics.
• Goedei's Theorem, find the limits of proof hi mathematics.
• Logical positivtrm and philosophy of science.
• Philosophy, the Turing Machine, end tuo birth of computer science.
• Philosophy, cognitive psychology, and artificial intelligence.
• Reasoning about the t-an N know whet is beautiful?
• The New Problems of i>nitosophy
80-2’OA; Introduction tc Log:c &c!ly) 71**
This introductory logic course is self-paced and entirely computsnzed. Students 
will be graded scleiy by how much material they master, not by grades on tests. A 
faculty member will be available to assist with problems.
80-2106 Introduction to Logic 'Burkholder! MWF C 30-9.20
Tne course will be an introduction tc first-order predicate logic with a concentration 
on some of its applications. The applications will be to the halting problem (in 
computability theory.', to problems of collective choice, and to the writing of Prolog 
programs. No background in any of these areas will be presupposed by the course. 
Tre course will use seme recently developed intelligent logic tutors running in 
Arorew.
PHILO^OP'HY
80-311: Logic arid Artificial Intelligence (Kelly) MWF 10:30-11:20
In artificial intelligence programming. one frequently encounters questions 
concerning the representation, acquisition, and use of beliefs. The purpose of this 
course is to examine some of these questions from a logical point of view. Theory 
helps us to distinguish some good ideas in A.I. from fluff, and hard problems from 
easy ones. Moreover, logical theory helps us to locate difficult problems we might 
Ha/e missed, to generalize problems we have solved, and to explain why some 
successful programs are as successful as they are.
We begin wtn a general discussion of inductive vs. deductive inference. Then we 
consider some philosophical theories for evaluating inductive inferences. Next, we 
analyze several famous A.I. "learning-' systems, including Hunt's concept learning 
system. Dendral and Meta-Denaral. • Mitchell's "version space" system for learning 
ealeu us. and programs for "explanation based learning".
.Next, we exami e Gold's theory of identification in the limit as a theoretical 
framework for the evaluation of inductive inference procedures. This framework for 
grammatical inference will be generalized in several ways to apply to the inference 
of logical theories. We sxamine the concept of computational complexity, and 
compare the respective complexities of the systems of Pao and Angluin for inferring 
minimal theories about regular sets: The complexities of these algorithms will be
assessed. Next, we examine £hud Shapiro's "model inference system", which can 
infer large classes of PROLOG programs (represented as logical theories) from 
examples of their intended performance. Next, we prove some complexity results 
which are of relevance to the systems of ShapiTO and Mitchell. Finally, we consider 
standard, philosophical objections to the feasibility of mechanical inductive inference 
that are founded on the claim that computer* cannot "invent theoretical terms".
For the remainder of the course, we shall shift our attention from the problem of 
acquiring beliefs to that of using them. This concern leads us to the examination of 
several A.I. theories of inference, including non-monoiomc reasoning, default 
reasoning, circumscription logics and, inheritance structures.
80-375: Topics: in Metaphysics; The Meaning of Life (Alieva) TTh 1:30-2:50
/Vhat is the meaning of life? ote: it have a moaning, or is it, in sone sense,
meaningless or atsurd? if life is meaningful, to what extent does its meaning depend
uu-on the existence of for belief in) God or a divine purpose? Can a world where
Goa is dead" have any real meaning dr value? Is the meaning of life a product of 
our own activities or inquiries’ Is it something we create, design or invent, or 
srr:etninj that we discover, find or have reveaied to us7 Coes the fact that we will 
d'e • afce life meaningless7 Or doei it somenow make meaning possible, or give 
meaning to life? -.Would life be meaningful, or be meaningful in the same way. if
i.ved forever'’* low do questions of self-understanding and understanding the 
•vonc: contribute to making ser.se o' the meaning of life1 What roles do nappmess,
¦ r'.n. i.j^f-. friendship, woik. play and material well-being have to play7 Can mc 
t jG a meanmgtui <et urhappy. unsatisfying or ignorant life7 Can we come up with 
dear oi coherent answers to these Questions7 In addressing these and related 
problems conce'n.rg the meaning of life, this course will examine a number of 
alternative approaches. Readings will be selected from classical and modern works 
jvithm various philosophical, religious and literary traditions. There are no 
prerequisites for the course.
In particular, it will be^onccrncd 
elations between knowledge and action. 12) the
£0-220. Ethical Theory iHausman) TTh 11:30-12:50
This course will provide a systematic intoduction to theories of what is right or
wrong, gocd or bad, and- morally praisevyorthy or blameAiorthy. Although there will
be some discussion of metaethicai issues concerning the meaning o? ethical claims, 
tneir objectivity and the ways in which they may be justified, the emphasis will be 
on ethical theories and their practical implications. Aithough this course will not
provide clear cut answers to pressing current questions such as "Is abortion (or 
caoital punishment, or reverse d'scriminaticn') morally permissible7", it will provide 
tne students /vth tods that should help them to address such questions mors clearly 
and thoughtfully. Ethical theories tc be discussed include consequer.tialist accounts 
such as utilitar anism, rights-tased views such as Kant's and Rawls', and virtue-based 
accounts such 3S Aristotle's.
80-232: Marx's Philosophical System (Hausman) TTh 1:30-2:50
The saying gees that a little philosophy is a dangerous thing. Marx thought tivas 
a iOt of ptnioscpny was a wnole lot more dangerous to the powers that be. st least. 
For although Marx was an economist, a historian, a journalist, and a political activist, 
he A/as trained as a phjlosopher ard nimself regarded his philosophical views e: 
central to his other activities. This course wiil be concerned with Marx's phitosopny 
a*~d its importance to the rest of Marx’s work.
/vith Marx's views concerning (1i th 
nature of explanation in the social sciences, (3) the nature of history, and (4) ethics.
The cmpnasis of the course will be on the early work of Marx and its relations to 
r-iegel ard Feuercauh Cut some attention will also ba devoted to Twentieth-Century
re interpret at ions and developments of Marx's views, such as those urged by Lukács
and Gramsci.
50-253: History of Modern Philosophy (Kelly) MWF 2:30-3.20
"Modern philosoon/’ is the work of Western European philosophers from the 
Seventeenth through tne Nineteenth centuries. ~his course is intended as a survey of 
philosophical thought during this pericd. We shaU focus on the views of Descartes. 
Leitmz. Berkeley, Hume*. <ant. -*egel, Marx and MiH. and we will consider the work of 
many otr.er pmiosophers at a more superficial level. The emphasis of the DDan:: 
will be on clarity of interpretation and on putting the student in a good position to
predict what a historical figure will say on a given topic.
80-260: Aesthetics «Carrier* TTh 11:30 - 12:50
Drawing on examples from painting, music, dance and literature this course will 
Study the ph.iosophy of art. We will discuss the history of representative painting, 
and its -elation tc modernism and postmodernism. We wili hear performances if 
piano works, and look at the nature of dance. With the assistance of the art 
department, we wiil compare the perspective on painting provided by critics and
painters themseives. Tne class presupposes no background in the arts or philosophy. 
There will be required three papers ar.d a final.
80-262: Philoscpny and Literature (Leizman) TTh 9:30-10:50
Philosophy and literature are both sources of insight and wisdom. In this course, 
¦we will reaa a variety of ph.iosophical and literary (prose, poetry, and drama) works 
and raise the following issues: does literature address philosophical problems?
(phtlosobhy m literature); are philosophy and literature analogous disc.plines or are 
tney inquiries with different goals, functions, ana/or subject matter? tphilosophy or 
iiteraturei There are no prerequisites for this course.
nsi
Ethical Issues in Management (Scheuermann) W45-849/80-394/80-894 (gradfc 
6:00 -9:00pm
Thp goal of this course is to develop students capacities for rigorous and 
responsible reasoning on the moral dimensions of managerial decisions. We shall 
begin by Introducing or clarifying some basic concepts, distinctions an analytical 
tools, and then look at a few of the most widely accepted fundamental moral 
theories. After explaining these general theoretical perspectives we shall move to a 
discussion of a wide variety of ethical issues. Among the issues to be discussed 
will be such topics as the social responsibility of the corporation, self-regulation vs. 
government regulation; .conflicts of professional obligations; environmental 
responsibility; preferential hiring and reverse discrimination. We shall look into some 
of the legal issues as well as the ethveal dimensions of these topics, and our 
readings will be from moral philosophers, economists, political scientists, lawyers 
and judges. This will be a team-taught, interdisciplinary course in. which both 
professors pl&n to be interacting in classroom with each other as well as with the 
students.
80-410: Logic and Computability II (Seidenfeldl MWF 1:30-2:20
This is a continuation of Logic and Computability I but it can be taken 
independently by stuaents who are familiar with the syntax of predicate logic. The 
first part of the course is concerned with the semantics of predicate logic and 
presents basic metamathematical results, such as Godel's Completeness Theorems. 
Compactness Theorem. Lowenheim- Skolem Theorems. Herbrand’s Theorem. The 
second part focuses on Godel's Incompleteness Theorems and presents in detail the 
recuisite notions an results of computability theory, i.e. recursive functions and 
repr/»sentaoility. Students will be given written assignments and there will be a mid­
term and final examinations.
30-580: Phrase Structure <Cla-*) MWF 10:30-11:20
An overview of various theories of phrase structure including Categorial Grammar. 
Generalized Phrase Structure Grammar, and a category-neutral base.
30-581: Advanced Syntax (Clark) MWF 1:20-2:20
A survey of recent work in Government-Binding theory including recent work on the 
distribution of empty categories. 0-theory, b nding theory (especially generalized 
binding), modular classification of NP-positions and current work on Logical Form.
80-815: Seminar on Foundations of Statistics (Seidenfeld) M Z30-&20
The course is offered in the Spring Term by 'the Statistics Department jointly with 
the Philosophy Department. This term we will read R.A. Fisher's last book: Statistical
Methods and Scientific Inference (3rd ed.).
Our goal is to consider the theoretical unity of Fisher's methods of statistical 
inference. Is there a Fisherian theory of statistics, besides all the Fisherien methods?

---------------------------------------------------

Editorial
We Need Another 
Reading Day
The current calendar for next semester has one 
day designated as a reading day. It is a Tuesday 
which falls between regular classes on Monday 
and the first day of finals on Wednesday. With 
student backing, Student Government 
President Jim Denburg has proposed to give 
students another reading day by cancelling 
classes Monday and officially adding it to the 
reading period. The proposed change has not 
one bad aspect about it and Denburg's request 
should certainly be complied with.
For many students, the last week of classes is 
as demanding as finals week, because of final 
papers and projects being due. One day floating 
in the middle of the week is barely enough time 
to catch one's breath, let alone an opportunity 
to do any reasonable studying for the upcoming 
exams.
Furthermore, how many of us are really going 
to go to all of our classes on that Monday? 
Professors will probably be forced to devise 
the means to convince students to attend their 
classes, on that last day, otherwise they will be 
wasting their time addressing surely a small 
fraction of the number of students enrolled in 
the course. Carnegie Mellon already has more 
class days per semester than many comparable 
universities. We don't need that extra day of 
Monday classes.
Finally, this is a perfect opportunity for the 
University to demonstrate its concern for the 
benefit of its students. Other proposed changes 
for the next academic calendar would include 
no classes the Wednesday before Thanksgiving 
and a reading period which would include two 
days plus a weekend, guaranteeing four days 
for studying and recuperation. Final decisions 
on all of these issues have yet to be made, but 
let's hope that when they are made, they will 
favor the students. One reading day isn't 
enough.
Election Day 
Responsibilities
As you are probably all aware, today is 
Election Day. So go vote. Granted we're not 
voting for President, so the 1986 elections may 
seem considerably less glamorous than the 
ones coming up in '88, but they are important 
nonetheless.
In addition to deciding gubernatorial 36 
contests, today's elections will decide whether 
the Democrats maintain a majority in the 
House, where all 435 seats must be filled, the 
Democrats currently enjoy a majority of 253 to 
the Republicans' 182 seats. Tuesday's 
elections will also decide contests for 34 of the 
100 seats in the Senate. Democrats are hoping 
to regain the majority that they lost in 1980 as 
Regan came into office. As Reagan has 
demonstrated with his heavy nationwide 
campaigning for Republican candidates, the 
outcome of the Congressional elections will 
have serious implications for Reagan's 
programs. In his efforts to boost Republican 
candidates with his own popularity, Reagan 
has turned many foreign policy issues like arms 
control and the fate of the Strategic Defense 
Initiative into partisan issues, ignoring the 
status as bipartisan iussues that they 
traditionallt enjoy. A Democratic majority in the 
Senate particularly could deal a significant blow 
to Reagan's plans.
But regardless of which side of the political 
spectrum you fall on, remember to support 
your convictions and vote.
Letters:
Student responds to Tartan Editorial
Editor:
Your editorial comment on the 
Cashier's Office (October 28) was 
pathetic. The fact that there are 
lines at the Cashier's Office each 
payday is purely the fault of the 
students in line. The University 
has offered Direct Deposit to all 
of its employees for as long as I 
can remember (August, 1982 - 
present). The service is free and 
the execution flawless in my
Editor:
I was amused by the article on 
student expenses on Sept 9, 
1986. It seemed to me that the 
author was feeling sorry for 
himself about his spending so 
much money so carelessly. He 
portrayed the CMU area
marketplace as this cruel
heartless beast craving for money 
from near-broke students. This 
simply is not true. First of all, 
these stores, video game arcades, 
and bulletin board ads will take
experience. It also enables people 
to receive a free checking account 
at Mellon Bank and is available 
to MANY different banks in 
Pittsburgh (voiding the typical 
argument of "I can’t afford a 
checking account”).
The fact that The Tartan didn't 
research the problem at all, and 
instead simply expected the 
university to hire more people so 
they wouldn't waste YOUR
anyone's money not just students' 
Secondly, what do you propose 
these businesses do? Put signs up 
reading "We don't care about 
profit, we care about you students 
being responsible adults with 
your money." This, of course, is 
ridiculous (as is the complaint the 
author makes). The last point I 
will make is about the last part of 
the article. The author basically 
states that he hopes no one else 
will spend as carelessely as he 
did. Why? Part of going to
precious time shows a simple 
lack of investigative journalism.
If this is supposed to be "a 
modem university on the cutting 
edge of high technology" then 
students should not be dumb 
enough to stand in line like 
cattle, and should learn about the I 
services this fine university offers 
its whining students.
Edward H. Voelcker
IM/ECON ’86 f
GSIA '87
Tartan too¦
college is learning how to live 
independently and responsibly.
This includes how to budget your 
money so you don't discover at 
the end of the week you only 
have 36 cents left in your account 
and you can't remember you spent 
it. If individuals don't make these 
mistakes in college when will 
they? When they have a wife and 
two kids?
JefT Hench 
Senior
Shadyside Academy |
High school students read The

---------------------------------------------------

November 4, 1986—The Tartan—Page 11
PA Gubernatorial Race: Mudslinging clouds the issues
By LISA MCANANY
Tartan Editor-in-Chief 
There’s something about election 
campaigns that brings out the worst in 
people. The '86 campaigns have been no 
exception to that general rule of thumb. The
Pennsylvania gubernatorial race, as well as 
others across the nation, has seen some of 
the most slanderous slogans, and abrasive 
ads of any campaign in years.
In fact, the negatigve ad campaigns and 
mutual bad-mouthing coming from Re­
publican candidate William W. Scranton 3d 
and Democratic candidate Robert Casey has 
become the paramount issue, on the tip
of everyone's tongues, regarding this 
important contest. Information on the 
candidates' positions on real issues, the ones 
that we’re supposed to be concerned about, 
is available, you just have to wade through 
the several inches of mud that has been 
slung since the gobematorial hopefulls hit 
the campaign trail.
Once you get down to the real issues, 
Scranton, 39, seems to be the better 
candidate. True, he's younger than Casey, 
54, and has perhaps less experience, though 
he was the Lieutenant Governor in the 
Thornburgh administration, but his youth 
and progressive views may prove to be two 
of his biggest assets. Scranton is pro-choice, 
unlike Casey, who is staunchly pro-life. 
Scranton, in typical Republican/free 
enterprise form, opposes ‘the State Store
Cohen gives election reminder
By PETER COHEN
On November 18 and 19, hopefully most 
of you will vote in the Senate elections to 
be held for the first year in Hunt library from 
9am to 9pm on Tuesday and Wednesday. As
Column
you vote, consider the candidates on the 
basis of their dedication to the Senate and 
their sincerity. Many times, people 
complain that Senators are just members for 
their resumes. I don't think that this is 
necessarily true, but this is: you have the 
ability to elect people who you believe are 
interested in Senate for the sake of Senate.
Being a Senator requires a high level of 
dedication and commitment. Like any extra­
curricular activity, the main idea is to have 
fun, but to do a good job, one must be 
willing to put in a lot of time. While we all 
have a great deal of work in an obviously 
highly pressured environment, Senators 
should realize that getting elected and 
representing a constituency will mean a
substantial time commitment. Try to 
determine whether or not the candidates from 
your college will devote the necessary time 
and energy. The majority of the current 
Senators are very dedicated and Student 
Senate is gradually becoming a more 
representative force on campus. However, it 
will continue in this direction only if those 
elected are willing to work. Senate isn't only 
attending and staying for the meeting every 
Tuesday night, the Senators also must work 
in an internal committee and represent their 
constituents by asking for suggestions and 
complaints. They must sttempt to make 
themselves aware of the important concerns 
of students.
When voting, please remember that the 
people you vote for are the people who must 
be able to assume the responsibility of being 
a Senator. Remember those who you elect 
will be on Senate for one year, and will be 
the ones who you trust to represent your 
viewpoints.
Peter Cohen is a second year Master’s 
student in SUP A and is chairman of Student 
Senate.
Katz says things aren't so bad
By JAY KATZ
I planned to write a positive column 
about how so many things are not going 
wrong. Yet I wrote this article in the midst 
of the first Morewood Gardens moat drill,
Column
when the building nearly was blown to bits.
But other things are not going wrong 
now. For instance, the building in which 
you are reading this article in is probably not 
blowing up.
Some other uncouth species is not 
destroying all of civilization as we know it 
(just us).
Computers are not involved in world 
peace talks. That would probably put 
everything in an infinite loop even worse
than now.
The goals of the American and Soviet 
governments, despite popular belief, are not 
the mass destruction of this planet and all its
animals.
Most of us at Carnegie Mellon do not 
have to eat dog food to survive (only those 
who just can't take UDS food anymore).
Air sirens are not sounding at this very 
minute, warning us to head to our favorite 
bomb shelter.
Gravity is intact, making it easier to get 
from place to place. Joggers should be 
grateful that this is the case.
Not every activity causes cancer or Aids.
People from Columbus' era were wrong- 
n° one is falling off the edge of the Earth.
No anarchist has ever been president.
All the agriculture that helps provide us 
our oxygen is not dying. All the people that 
provide the agriculture carbon dioxide are not 
dying.
Mohamar Khadafy is not eligible to run 
for the 1988 U.S. presidential election nor 
has he announced plans to run.
John Norton, former Pittsburgh public 
safety director, is not the manager of this 
nation’s budget.
Personally, things couldn't be better. 
My place to live, which includes four walls, 
a floor, a roof and countless unimportant 
material possessions, has not yet been 
destroyed.
1 do not have amnesia so I can still live 
without wondering more than I do now 
about who I am and what I am doing here.
There is no smell of dog residue 
permeating from the soles of my shoes. 
And I have access to a shower room every 
day so that I don't smell like a dog.
I'm not trapped on a deserted island with 
Khadafy as my only companion, depending 
upon him for my survival.
There is no lightening striking me at 
this very moment. There isn't even a 
thunderstorm going on outside. Or a 
tornado, hailstorm or hurricane. No 
chemical or nuclear accidents are affecting 
my survival.
I have not been kidnapped nor have I ever 
received, against my will, electric jolts into 
my body. No disrespectful cult is taking me 
and playing with my mind.
Things sure could be worse.
system in Pennsylvania, unlike Casey. 
Scranton is in favor of a merit-based system 
for the appointment of judges, also not a 
view shared by his Democratic opponent. 
Pennsylvania, a state suffering from a virtual 
exodus of young, talented people leaving the 
state, needs a youthful governor with new 
ideas to continue to breath new life into a 
deteriorating state.
It is unfortunate that both candidates felt
compelled to rely on such disgracefully 
negative campaign tactics. This gu­
bernatorial race may have set an unfortunate 
precedent for the conduct of future campaigns 
in Pennsylvania, but hopefully voters have 
managed to see beyond the juvenille finger- 
pointing and muck-raking to the social and 
economic issues that will have serious 
implications for the future.
News Editor addresses apathy
By DRUE MILLER
Tartan News Editor 
OK, so you’ve heard about it by now. 
Somebody told you about it, or you’ve 
walked by it en route to class. Maybe you 
even stopped briefly, walked around it, read
Column
the signs. You've done your part, right? You 
felt a small tinge of guilt, you nodded a little 
and lowered your head. You walked on to 
class, and refocused your thoughts to more 
pressing academic matters. You've already 
made your contribution.
Or maybe not. Maybe you don't agree. 
Maybe you, like others, vocally denounce it 
with the commonly heard rhetoric: 
"Eyesore." "Useless." "What good can it do? 
What do they think they can accomplish by 
this?”
These are all good points. It is ugly. It's 
not going to make world news and change 
the system overnight The best they could 
hope for is Channel 11 News - sandwiched 
between high school football scores and the 
Rotation Diet entree of the week. Besides, 
we all know CMU is apathetic as hell 
anyways. So it iust ain't gonna do no good, 
right?
Maybe. Maybe the shanty will disappear 
after the 11th, maybe the Board of Trustees 
will decide against divesting . Maybe we can 
all forget about this nasty business going on 
half-way across the world and concentrate on 
our own situations again.
Or maybe...maybe it will serve some good. 
Somebody, just one person's view might be 
expanded. What if they went over and asked a 
question? And what if the question evolved
into a dialogue, and they missed class, 
because they were learning about something 
else? And what if they walked away, 
understanding just a little more about the 
issue, enough to decide for themselves how 
they felt, instead of resorting to the same 
words everyone else uses? Next time they 
could explain what good it will/won’t 
bring about instead of merely asking.
Useless? Since when is education useless? 
Even if it's something that won't directly 
affect your final grades, your GMAT/LSAT 
scores, or your starting salary, don’t think 
that it won't have any impact on your 
education. Because learning encompasses all 
sider of an issue; it forces you to do some 
work on your own. You can’t just listen in 
class, you have to think rationally and apply 
what you already know to find answers. You 
can't just walk by the shanty and mumble 
under your breath. You have to read the 
papers, talk to people, go and argue your 
point If you think it's pointless and stupid, 
or a worthwhile demonstration, figure our 
why: find reasons, reals facts, not just your 
own apathetic approach to learning.
This time it's apartheid. Next year another 
cause for protest will present itself. Don't 
look at the shanty as just a representation of 
apartheid; think of it as an expression of 
many radical issues, and an invitation to 
learn more about them in a global sense. 
Maybe your view won't change the system, 
maybe you won't solve the problem, but 
maybe being forced to look at eyesores 
everyday will make you just a little more 
educated, bring us all a little closer to 
understanding.
And if we all study the problem and debate 
all the issues and generate new ideas... 
maybe....
The Tartan
Olve Peersen
Lisa D. McAnany
Editor-in-Chief
Andrew Robitshek
Managing EditorBusiness Manager
Drue MillerJoshua M. LevineBruce Kasrel
News EditorFeatures EditorEntertainment Editor
John FriedmannRuth MatsumuraAndrew Gillespie
Sports EditorPhoto Darkroom EditorPhoto Assignment Editor
Kurt ShawAlbrecht T. PowellLisa Zito
Art EditorProduction ManagerAa Manager
John BabichKathryn A. SitterDave Levy
Dossier EditorTypesetting ManagerTartan Assistant
Vyay ReddyJack L. PollerNeil Green blum
Contributing EditorContributing EditorContributing tditor
fhe Tartan is the official student newspaper 
of Carnegie Melton University it is a weekly 
newspaper, published each Tuesday during the fall 
and spring semesters by students at no cost to 
members of the university community. It is printed 
by Typecraft Press, Inc. Subscriptions are 
available for $15 per semester, $25 per year The 
Editorial appearing at the beginning to the 
opinion section is the official opinion of The 
Tartan editorial board Columns are the opinions 
of individual authors who are not necessarily on 
The Tartan editorial board or staff Letters to 
the Editor are opinions of individual authors who 
are usually members of the University community. 
A letter intended for publication must be
signed and indude the writer's address and 
phone number for verification. Names win be 
withheld upon request T*e Tartan reserves the 
nght to condense or reject any letter or column. 
Copyright 1906 by T*e Tartan The editorial 
board reserves the right to withhold from
publication any copy it deems unfit for publication
Office: SkibO 50-52 (412) 268-2111 
Mailing address: The Tartan 
Box 17
Carnegie Melton Univ. 
Pittsburgh, PA 15213
Funded in part by the Activities Fee. All tights 
reserved. Library of Congress ISSN #: 0890-3107.

---------------------------------------------------

Student Senate
—The Unk
Meeting
Date: November 4,1986
Time: 7:00 pm
Place: Wherret Room, Skibo
Reason: Come hear Fred Rogers
talk on these topics:
—Skibo Renovation 
—Progress of Long-range 
Campus Plan 
—University Center
Any Questions? Come ask them!
Funded by student activities fee
HADASSAH 
COUNTRY STORESunday, November 8,1986 10:00am-4:00 pm
Winchester-Thurston School Gym 
555 Morewood Avenue
FOOD, GLORIOUS FOOD
Blintzes—Salads—Baked Goods—Jams—Jellies 
Hotdogs—Popcorn—Ice Cream—Candy 
Health Foods 
EAT IN OR TAKE OUT 
Holiday Gift Items 
All Day Silent Auction 
Children's Activity Corner 
Admission $1
Dining Service
NOVEMBER 1QRP;
MONTUEWEDTHUFRISATSUN
1
Parents 
Weekend -
2
3A Election56789
daggers
10 Educom111213141516
%S8SI
Sleeping
Baggers
17
Sleeping
Baggers
1819
Sw0»t ending»
20, XflNÉiarrta y'0»mr /
^ FactâtfCHb ¿sBreedt enrf emdi
212223
2425-^
Kttffa CafeThanksgivingOlnntr
2627
Thanksg
28
iving reces. 
..................
29
s-------------------
....... ......
30
HELP AT CRITICAL TIMES
CMU Counseling ft Student Development Center...................208-2122
After 5.-00 p.m., an answering service operator wiH help you reach 
the staff member on cell.
CONTACT Pittsburgh.................................................................................7B2-4Q23
24 hour telephone counssting, crisis intervention, and supportive — - - » ssierang.
Ontg Connection....................................................................................,...044700
An elcohoi/drug crisis hotHne, 5—9 pm *
ToWMd..................................................................... ........................................2*14084
A swies of taped information on nedcH, legal, conaumsr, and aefs 
ty iaeuee. üats of «es appear in tf«e blue pages of ths Pittsburgh 
talsphons cBrectory.
P s s s s s t .
Gift Giving Dilemma?
Travel Gift Certificates!
Forbes Travel(412)521-7300 or CMU x2999
Wanted: Counter help for restaurant. Full or Part time, various shifts 
available. Starting rate, late night: $3.75/hour. All other shifts: $3.50/hour 
Friday and Saturday late nights will be given bonuses.
Apply: 3901 Forbes Avenue (Original Hot Dog Shop)
_______between 9am and 5pm._____________________________________
Are you tired of renting?
An advance of your rental allowance could make 
this home affordable to 1 or several students.
Gail Pollock Jubelirer Howard Hanna Co.
661-7122 421-9120
5246 Forbes — $99,500 — 5% down plus closing costs.
5 or 6 bedrooms — Lots of space.
The Original Hot Dog Shop
Sun-Thurs 9 am-4:30 am Fri-Sat 9 am-6 am
16 ex. 6 pk Imports
Black Label *2.25 l.C. Lite $2.50 Becks $4.65 Mooaehead $3.80
Blatz $2.25 Rolling Rock $2.50 Elephant Malt $4.69 St. Pauli Girl $4.55
40 oz Bud Bottles $1.30 • l.C. Coolers 12 oz 6 pk $3.50
Largest Selection of Import Beer!
Over 200 to choose from Purchase 5 and receive 6 (must be same price)
The Top off The ##0
Video Disco on 6 foot Screen!11 am-2 am
w m

---------------------------------------------------

Entertainment 
Comics 
Classifieds
Events
Private Music: New Age at its finest
By BRUCE KASREL
Tartan Entertainment Editor 
When one mentions the words “New Age” 
to fans of this musical genre, they usually 
get a little defensive. “It's not new” they 
shout back. New Age is not new, however 
today's hottest musical craze is so distinct 
that there could be no other name for it 
Even record stores are baffled by its unusual 
and broad spectrum. You can often find New 
Age pioneers Jean-Michel Jarre and Phillip 
Glass in classical sections, while New Age 
superstar George Winston is located in the 
jazz section. There is no denying that the 
genre does not fit in any one mold, but due 
to its recent upsurge in popularity it is 
starting a section all its own.
To those who have yet to discover New 
Age it is, roughly, a blend of folk, jazz and 
classical. The results range from serene, soft, 
and passionate piano solos to grooving, 
screaming and hectic guitar jams.
Its roots are hard to trace but most turn to 
beginning of the 20th century for its 
beginnings. Frenchman Claude Debussy, 
along with Englishmen Ralph Vaughn 
Williams and Arnold Bax, began to 
experiment with musical images. Trying to 
create sounds that conjured up visions that 
were only limited by the imagination, they 
were the leaders in the Impressionist 
movement in classical music. George 
Gershwin and Maurice Ravel continued on 
the same path, and soon “experimental” or 
“mood” music was bom.
“It is the sound track for the movie of the 
mind” says English-born keyboard artist 
Eddie Jobson in a Time magazine article. Its 
similarities with movie sound tracks are *not 
just methaphorical; many artists have 
produced title tracks for motion pictures. The 
most famous of these is Vangelis' "Chariots 
of Fire" score. Others include Tangerine 
Dream's "Risky Business", Chinese Amer­
ican Lucia Hwong's music in "Year of the 
Dragon", and Japan's Ryuichi Sakamoto's 
title track for "Merry Christmas, Mr. Law­
rence" (both Sakamoto and Hwong also acted 
in the films).
Despite the critics who point to the movie 
and Miami Vice sounds of New Age as trite 
and mindless, what was once an alternative 
to formula pop and rock is now emerging as 
the music of choice. Upscale stores are 
coursing it through their speakers where 
Musak and Classical once reigned supreme. 
“Yuppies” are washing their BMW's to it 
(on CD, no less). New Age, to coin a 
popular phrase, has “come of age.”
The latest estimates show New Age 
rivalling classical records in total sales. The 
leader in the industry, a West Coast label, 
Windham Hill, grossed $25 million last 
year. Their best known artist, piano-man 
George Winston, has been on Billboard’s 
Top 40 jazz chart with his album December 
for a remarkable 184 weeks. Even though 
Hill had a lock on the industry for a few 
years, they are losing ground to the barrage 
of competition, the most prominent being 
New York based Private Music.
In only two years Private Music has grown 
from an in-home studio to a powerful force 
in the industry. Founded by former Tan­
gerine Dream keyboardist Peter Baumann, 
its early releases are some of the most inno­
vative and creative albums in New Age.
lines that work beautifully juxtaposed 
against the sounds of nature in the back­
ground.
House of Sleeping Beauties 
Lucia Hwong
Lucia Hwong, Chinese-American, 
beautifully crafts two musical cultures 
together into one harmonious sound. Rang­
ing from the eerie “Tibet Suite” which fea­
tures the Hwong on a shakuhachi (a 
traditional Japanese flute). Merging this 
strange sounding instrument with a syn­
thesizer and an atonal voice gives the 
impresion of a powerful force looking over 
us. The whole Suite takes up an entire side 
and is comprised of different images of the 
Eastern mountain range. Each piece is 
unique and fits perfectly together, as only a 
master craftperson could do. She was com- 
misioned to do the work for a five-hour 
Asian Television documentary. She journey­
ed to Tibet to get a feel for the surrounding 
countryside and its people. Her experiences 
can be felt in her deeply emotional com­
positions that are continued in the “Suite.” 
On the other side, “Dragon Dance” shines 
the brightest. Here, she again plays her flute 
underneath a furiously paced drum beat. The 
hybrid of the slow moving Eastern images 
with the brisk, driving Western rhythms is 
superb. “The Spell” finishes off the album 
in elegant style with Hwong on solo 
shakuhachi. Her playing is so crisp and clean 
one gets the sensation of being put under a 
magical trance.
Keys To Imagination 
Yanni
At first listen, I thought the album was a 
collage of trite sound effects. Upon closer 
inspection, I found the album a little more 
interesting. Oh sure, there are the annoying 
sounds of flowing water (computer gen­
erated) and blowing wind, but Yanni man­
ages to slip in mutiple layers of interwoven 
melodies. It is these many distinct elements 
in each song that give the LP an edge. On 
“North Shore of Matsushima” he uses a 
synthesized saxophone and straight synth to 
create an upbeat tempo that rarely drags. 
“Looking Glass” uses a synth trombone to 
give a strong central theme to the song. 
Some of his tracks, “Nostalgia” in partic­
ular, ends in an abrupt fashion that leaves 
one wondering if he ran out ideas. The rest 
of the album shows his command over the 
range of the synthesizer (the entire album is 
done only using one synthesizer with Yanni 
at the keys) but falls just a little short on the 
main melody line.
On the Future of Aviation 
Jerry Goodman
Although William Ackerman, founder of 
Windham Hill, may get all the attention as 
the finest New Age violinist, Jerry Good­
man’s eclectic violin playing shines brightly 
in his shadow. He soars with accentuated 
trills in “Sarah's Lullaby” and soothes with 
somber chords in “On the Future of 
Aviation.” Not only is his violin playing 
first-rate, but he also plays guitar like the 
continued on page DIO
Baumann created Private Music in 1984 
due to the lack of freedom on existing 
commercial labels. New Age music was a 
highly risky venture; even today's successes 
like Winston’s December are rare, and the 
“big boys” - CBS and Warner - did not want 
any part of the business.
Baumann was willing to take the chance. 
The company is driven by Baumann's belief 
“in the intense expression of emotions, in a 
world view as wide as the world itself... and 
always, in the human need to seek the next 
horizon.”
Baumann has yet to release an album of his 
work on Private Music, and has no plans to 
do so, but he has compiled a group of 
internationally famous artists that have 
produced some sensational products. All of
soft echo chamber effect on the synthesizer. 
As he plays with the inital rhythm, still a 
little too long, he adds a rocking backbeat 
and then modifies the theme to complement 
the strong bass. He also tosses in an electric 
soprano saxophone for added texture. In “Life 
Along the River Vaal” he creates a 
background of funk and samba that is an 
intriguing mix. Unfortunately, the most 
captivating melody comes in as the work 
fades. “Malovent Landscapes” is about the 
only piece that really stands out against the 
others. It gradually builds on a simple 
theme, and an occassional clash of sounds 
appears to keep the listener alert. It is a 
sweeping mixture of sounds, with the long, 
drawn out chord from a synthesizer giving a 
dreamy touch. It is here where O'Heam
utilizes the full range of his electronic 
instrument.
Etosha : Private Music in a Land of 
Dry Water 
Sanford Ponder
Of all the Private Music releases, I like 
this one least. Frankly, it is more repetitive 
than Ancient Dreams. There are few themes 
of any merit and only a touch of unusual 
images. “Araguia” uses a few distinct theme 
lines that blend nicely together and are deep 
enough in substance to hold one's interest. It 
is soothing to the ear and emotes images of 
nature in one’s mind. “Lamima” and 
“Frontier” both use actual sounds of the wild 
quite effectively but fail in communicating 
any real effects. The only saving points of 
the songs are the wonderful acoustic piano
Private Music founder Peter Baumann
the compositions on the releases are original 
works by that artist. Here is a rundown of all 
the releases to date from Private Music:
Ancient Dreams 
Partrick O'Hearn
O'Heam, a synthesist/bassist with Missing 
Persons for the past several years, tried to 
combine a diversity of synthesized sounds 
with various percussion effects. The result is 
interesting at first but O'Heam lets the idea 
of the mixture, rather than the mixture itself, 
dominate. What we get is a basic theme 
repeated excessively. This flaw can be easily 
identified in “At First Light,” “Unusual 
Climate,” and “Last Performance.” When 
O'Heam does develop his themes, the end 
product is quite sensational. The African- 
feeling “Beauty in Darkness” begins with a

---------------------------------------------------

Page D2—The Tartan—November 4,1986
Rivers vs. Carson: who's got the better guests will win
D¦> A A T A VI AD An1\r KonH mnmTaoo rriirAo onw r* A r>tU» iL««. J.C J „ 1_  __*_  «L.* 2a 111By ANGELA TAYLOR
Tartan Television Critic 
The television industry has been paying 
particular attention to late night TV lately, a 
medium NBC has pretty well monopolized. 
The alleged-soon-to-be fourth network, the 
Fox Broadcasting Company (FBS), however, 
snatched a bit of the limelight in a much 
publicized hiring of Joan Rivers for their late 
night talkshow The Late Show.
Joan now has her own talk show and her 
own little talk show set - just like Johnny, 
and Dave, and Merv, for that matter - with a 
wood-grain Formica desk, some potted 
palms, and a huge "window" looking out 
upon the city. Her guests thus far have been 
far above par for the late night talk show 
circuit, but that I suspect will pass when the 
novelty of the show does.
For whatever reason, Joan has decided 
against a monologue. She comes out, 
announces her guests, kisses some people in 
the front row, and cracks a few jokes; but it 
is far from being a deliberate monologue. 
However, to make up for the absence of a 
stand-up routine, she gets into some 
hilarious audience participation bits, even 
funnier than Carson's "Shower with a Star." 
Joan had members of the audience fill out 
cards, giving details of their deepest secrets.
From the three she chose, had them tell the 
tale on national TV, and the audience chose 
the winner on a shame-o-meter which 
measured their "oooh’s." The winners were 
an elderly couple from Ohio who "got the 
urge" while doing 70 on the interstate. They 
didn't pull over. For having the most 
shameful secret, the couple won a weekend 
at Caesar’s Palace in Las Vegas. What some 
people won't do for money.
Joan’s band-leader/sidekick is Mark Hudson 
of the Hudson Brothers. Hudson is truly 
funny, but doesn't shine well under Rivers' 
bushel. More interaction with him would be 
a definite improvement of the show. The
only band member Joan gives any attention 
is the sole female member who is the 
recipient of a barage of tramp jokes.
When Bill Cosby was hosting the Tonight 
Show, he said "I can do what I want, this 
isn't my show." It must be true; when Joan 
was subbing for Carson she was much more 
careless with guests than she is on The Late 
Show. Not nearly so many insults and 
innuendos fly at the guests; I bet even Bo 
Derek would be safe with Joan now.
Another drawback of the show is that it is 
doesn't seem quite as "live" as other late 
night talk shows. Maybe I'm not giving 
David Lee Roth enough credit, but his 
answers seemed a little too ready, as did 
Joan's questions. It was almost like it was 
scripted.
Most of the problems The Late Show has 
can be ironed out with time and experience. 
A little settling in is necessary for every new 
show, particularly one of this caliber,
knowing that it will always be compared to 
Carson. I don’t think it's fair to count 
either John or Joan out, yet (while Joan 
insisted that she not competing with him 
the last half hour of her show runs over thè 
first half hour of Johnny's). They both have 
good shows with their strong and weak 
points, and eventually I think it will become 
a battle of the guests. Viewers will simply 
watch the show that has the guest they want 
to see most.
WRCT Picks: Latest release from Nick Cage
By CLARE ROSEN
Special to the Tartan 
Nick Cave has released his third album 
since the demise of the Birthday Party. 
Accompanied by the illustrious Bad Seeds, 
he has continued his exploration of the roots 
of rock. The album Kicking Against the 
Pricks takes its title from a verse of the 
New Testament, and is made up entirely of 
covers from diverse sources. Cave proves 
that his unique vocal histrionics are equal to
songs like "Hey Joe" and John Lee Hooker's 
"I'm Gonna Kill That Woman," and there are 
some truly hilarious moments when he 
croons, "By the time I get to Phoenix" or 
the trashy "Something’s Gotten Hold of My 
Heart"
But Cave never condescends to his 
material; he is able to find meaning and 
poignance in the most corny, timeworn or 
excessive lyrics.
Even Johnny Cash’s "The Folksigner," 
written for a movie starring Andy Griffith,
We ware looking for n«w shade« when I realized it was time to do some­thing about my hair. You know, my hair was driving me crazy. So, we cruised right into Great Expectations. Now with my new cut, my hair is driving Bobby crazy.
Customers: Sue and Bob, lnsep'irable ever since.
UtCIT
PRECISION HAMCUTTERS
TheTheIUST-A-CUTDESIGNER PERMPRECISION CUT
on, $25.00.* $13.00$8.00
Complete with written guarantee
Comolete with shampoo 
and Wow style.
Cut only
SATISFACTION GUARANTEED 
Gf eat Styles Start at
r
MUSTJjAVE_COUPQN_
SAVE $2.00
on a
PRECISION HAIRCUT
Complete with shampoo A styling 
| Offer Expires:
I ** 30 ,986 nrtrnmswWUCMON HMRCUTTOS
If NONTWSNTr*ctss*m<31CftfflT
ountryR sAwaihhmpe
237 Atwood Street Across the street from Oakland Post Office
687-3500
•j
seems charged with tension and apocalyptic 
significance. The Bad Seeds play brilliantly; 
Blixa Bargeld’s slide guitar is a noisy 
menace, while the rest of band provides a 
subdued but soulful balance. Cave has 
certainly come to terms with his musics' 
origins, and this album should be enjoyable 
even for listeners not familiar with his 
career.
The music of Psychic TV is analogous to 
much contemporary experimental fiction; 
forms are observed, but with an awareness of 
the limitations of those forms. An attempt 
is made to transcend those limitations and 
the result is something both more and less 
than ordinary music. The latest effort from 
this bizarre musical group/religious 
cult/band of pranksters, led by the 
inscrutable Genesis P. Orridge, is a 
surprisingly straightforward cover of Good 
Vibrations, available in both 12" and 7" 
form as The Magical Mystery D Tour EJP. 
A heavy dance beat is prominent, but with 
the exception of a small "poetry break" 
("Words fall around us, time cascading 
down...") PTV’s version is surprisingly true 
to the spirit of the Beach Boys' original.
In fact, today's superior production 
techniques allow them to beat the Beach 
Boys at their own game, by achieving the
same affects but with greater clarity. Both 
records include "hyperdelicized" versions of 
songs released earlier, and the 7" package 
comes with yet another mix of the 
inescapable "Godstar." All of this is 
supposed to be featured in an upcoming film 
about the life of Brian Jones, entitled 
Godstar.
Clare Rosen is Program Director at WRCT
... a priceless commodity 
in todays marketplace.
The information re­
sources of the US Govern­
ment are available at a 
Depository Library near 
you. Without charge.
For the location of the 
Federal Depository Li­
brary in your area, con­
tact your local library or 
write to the Federal 
Depository Library Pro­
gram, Office of the Public 
Printer, Washington, DC 
20401.
Federal Depository library Program
? ?
The sane? ?
FREE
DELIVER
WITHIN 
30
MINUTES 
***** 
622-7000
PIZZA
.CHEESE 
SUPREME
12" CHEESE 
$4.40 
16" CHEESE 
$6.50
ITALIAN
HOAGIE
12" WHOtE. i3.95 
6" HALF...$2.00
r
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
h.
COUPON
Our Gang Pizza
$1.00 OFF Large Pizza 
622-7000
Expires 11/15/86
"1
I
I
I
I
4523 Centre Avenue 
Oakland
I Sun-Thurs 11 am-1pm 
Fri-Sat 11am-2am
I
T
COUPON
Our Gang Pizza
50c OFFSmall Pizza 
622-7000
Expires 11/15/86 .L_____.____________¦*

---------------------------------------------------

November 4,1986—The Tartan—Page D3
ment of the strings provided a light 
harmonic structure for the soloist.
The dialogue between the soloist and french 
homist proved to be disenchanting due to the 
inaccuracy of the entrances and the imprecise 
delivery.
The second movement, Moderato, began 
with an orchestral introduction which 
featured the strings. The french horn then 
entered with a solo which was performed 
sufficiently. The violin and cello sections 
returned to the sparse pizzacato accompani­
ment and the soloist entered with the viola 
accompaniment of minor seconds and thirds, 
and chromatic ascending and descending 
passages which created a weeping affect. 
The mellow, dark tone of the clarinet solo 
underlined the cello line. The harmonics 
produced by the cellist, which were in the 
high register and pianissamo, were executed 
superbly. The return of the violin and cello 
accompaniment that we heard at the 
beginning of the movement provided a sense 
of unity to this movement. The movement 
was brought to a conclusion by a fade out of 
the simple tune presented.
The quiet fade out led to a solo cadenza 
movement, an uncommon practice in music 
in Shostakovich's time. In this movement
the cellist expanded on previous themes. 
Rhythmic and melodic motives were used 
and distorted in many ways. The movement 
effectively displayed the excellent technique 
and musicality of this talented performer.
The fourth movement began with an 
accelerando in the strings, followed by 
woodwind glisses, and descending runs in 
thirds. There was a strange melody in the 
cello solo line, which mimicked a Russian 
folk tune. This music is lighter and more 
playful. The orchestra then joined and 
suddenly, with a crescendo and molto 
accelerando, the soloist surged ahead 
pronouncing his dominance. The movement 
was brought to an end by a final, defiant 
down bow stroke by Harrell.
This dynamic conclusion to an overall 
brilliant performance, evoked thunderous 
applause from the audience. All of the 
performers illustrated their brilliance and 
virtuosity in this difficult and moving piece.
Retaining the high level of performance 
cited in the first two pieces, the orchestra 
concluded the program with Johannnes 
Brahm's Symphorty No. 4 in e Minor, Opus 
98. The motive in the first movement, 
containing only four notes, is passed from 
the violins to the lower strings and finally
to the woodwinds. The intense climax was 
produced by the fortissimo bass line and 
resounding timpani.
The choral-like construction is cited in the 
last fermata which is similar to the 
"Amen" of a prayer. This structure unifies 
the work. Furthermore, the second 
movement contains a ballad in a church-like 
manner. In contrast, two themes appear in 
the third movement. The sherzo theme is 
stated by the full orchestra, and the second 
theme by the strings in a grazioso manner. 
The piccolo line contrasted the 
contrabassoon line for a unique texture. In 
accordance to the choral-like structure, 
Brahms borrowed the base line of his Finale 
theme from Bach’s Cantata No. 150. He 
then presented variations upon this theme. 
Overall, the piece complimented the level of 
excellence set-up previously by the Elgar and 
Shostakovich. The concert proved to be a 
very pleasurable and memorable experience.
Next at the Symphony
Arvo Paert Symphony No 2 
Tchaikovsky, Violin Concerto 
Galzanov, Symphony No 4 
Neemi Jarvi, conductor 
______Nathan Milstien, violin______
DEMO STUDIO
QuaMy Becordng You Can Aftord
1052 Frank In Drive 
Bethel Park. PA 15102 
JACK PwN (A 12) 835-6398
aI’m so depressed. It was my brothers birthday 
last night and I was in charge of making the cake.
“Well, I made the cake, a great big triple-fudge 
layer cake and before it even got a chance to cool, 
I ate the whole thing plus an entire can of fudge- 
swirl icing. I ate the Very Vanilla ice-cream, too, 
a gallon of it.
“Of course, I felt bad about the cake, but it’s no 
big deal about the calories. I just made myself barf 
the whole thing up.
“The party was awful... one of our family’s 
famous get-togethers, and of course I ate like a pig, 
so I had to make myself throw up again. I took a 
handful of laxatives, too. It’s funny. My family
hasn’t the faintest idea how I can eat so much and 
not gain weight.
“I hate these stupid get-togethers. How can I feel 
like such an outsider in my own family?**
—Betsy, 22, bulimia victim 
Betsy is not alone. She is one of an estimated 
500,000 young women in the U.S. suffering from 
the eating disorder known as bulimia.
This binge/purge addiction is a vicious cycle 
that wreaks havoc on the victim’s teeth, kidneys
Ik
Tri-State Eating Disorders Center 
At The Medical Center
crsDnm PA, Inc
1000 Dutch Ridge Road/Beaver, Pennsylvania 15009
and intestines as well as the bulimic’s pereonal 
and professional life. Sometimes, the cycle ends 
in death from heart failure or a ruptured stomach.
At The Medical Center, we’ve developed a 
comprehensive program to meet the special needs 
of patients with eating disorders. Through our 
Tri-State Eating Disorders Center, we’ve helped 
both patients and their families understand and 
cope with these problems.
For confidential information, call toll free 
1-800-622-2832 in Pennsylvania; 1-800-782-2832 
outside Pennsylvania. Professionals are available 
to answer your questions 24 hours a day.
Don’t let an eating disorder consume your life.
Students:
Earn Extra Money
Part time job. Guaranteed 
salary to start. 
3 hours/night from our 
Shadyside office. 
Ideal for articulate individual 
who enjoys talking to people.
661-9827
Cellist Harrel is technically perfect in the Shostakovich
Bv NADINE FLYNN AND 
SUZANNE SCHELKOPF 
Tartan Symphony Critics
On Friday evening, October 31, at 8:30 
P.M., The Pittsburgh Symphony presented 
its first performance of the seventh set of 
Subscription concerts in Heinz Hall. The 
program consisted of works by Elgar, 
Shostakovich, and Brahms, and the featured 
soloist of the evening was cellist, Lynn 
Harrell. The symphony was under the 
direction of Andrew Davis, whose energetic 
and outstanding conducting delicately crafted 
each of the works into true pieces of art. 
The sensitive interpretations of the works, 
by Davis, Harrell, and the Symphony itself, 
provided the audience with an enjoyable and 
exciting evening at the Symphony.
The opening piece was Serenade in e Minor 
for String Orchestra, Opus 20, by Elgar. 
The work consisted of three movements:
Allegro Piacevole, Larghetto, and
Allegretto for Chamber Orchestra. The 
Allegreo Piacevole contained two themes, a 
light lilting melody and a more intricate and 
involved secondary idea which attaccaed into 
a Larghetto. The precision and effectiveness 
of Davis' conducting was evident from his 
initial downbeat. He immediately shaped the 
first theme, a simple tune, by carefully 
balancing the different textures that Elgar 
introduced. Davis' light and graceful 
conducting and smooth flowing commun­
ication with the orchestra complimented the 
simplistic work.
The expressiveness of the Allegro 
Piavecole was carried into the Larghetto. In 
this second movement, Elgar's attempt to 
alternate passion with tenderness, was 
comfortably delivered through lush, rich 
harmonies and definite rhythmic lines. The 
violin solos in these first two movements 
were performed exceptionally well.
The concluding movement began with the 
theme stated by the cello and bass sections 
in a light, bouncy manner. The intonation, 
exactness in entrances, balance, rhythmic 
precision, and dynamic contrast, all delivered 
well, culminated in a pleasing and superb 
performance.
Concerto No. 1 for Cello and Orchestra, 
Opus 107, by Dmitri Shostakovich, was 
presented next. The competency of the 
featured soloist, Lynn Harrell, illuminated 
the beauty of the work. The piece consisted 
of four movements, one of which was a 
candenza which exposed Harrell's virtuosity.
Opening the Allegretto movement, Harrell 
stated a light, but definite marcato theme 
which gradually crescendoed into an 
accompaniment of supporting woodwinds. 
The dialogue of the principal theme, passed 
between the solo cello and french horn , and 
later to the wooodwinds, unified the first 
movement. The sparse pizzacato accompani-

---------------------------------------------------

Page D4—The Tartan—November 4,1986
The Bangles rock the Mosque
Lead singer Susanna Hoffs acknowledges the crowds applause
Drummer Debbi Peterson adds extra vocals to the harmonyMicheál Steele sets up the bands foundation on bass
By ALBRECHT T. POWELL
Tartan Production Manager 
Finally, Carnegie Mellon's efforts to raise 
money to fight Multiple Sclerosis paid off 
with the long awaited Bangles concert The 
conceit, held last Wednesday evening at the 
Syria Mosque featured Jeff Mueller as Morris 
Day and the Time, the group, E*I*E*I*0, 
and the sex-appealing "all-female-Beatles" 
group The Bangles.
MTV sponsored the event along with 
Students Against Multiple Sclerosis 
(SAMS). The idea behind the concert was to 
inspire competition among college campuses 
nationwide to raise money to fight MS. 
Carnegie Mellon defeated all other schools 
nationwide with total donations in excess of 
$23,000 and won the Bangles for an evening
Vicki Peterson (left) jams on the guitar with Hoffs
of entertainment.
Mark Goodman, of MTV, emceed the 
evening introducing our very own Jeff 
Mueller as Morris Day with his airband 
group, The Time. Playing "The Bird" with 
Domino's Pizza drums, the leg-guitar, and 
keyboards "complements of IBM, they 
performed their classic number gaining 
national fame last year in the SAMS airband 
competiton.
The Bangles opening group, E*I*E*I*0, 
was rather disapointing with their own form 
of country-look rock. Playing far too long, 
the unheard of group was a poor companion 
to the more popular music of the Bangles.
After an intermission during which Mark 
Goodman, carrying a Strohs, came out to 
invite students to come out of the balconies
and into the orchestra to dance and have a 
good time, the Bangles finally appeared to 
the cheers of the crowd.
Playing a myriad of songs from their 
newest album, Different Light, the four girls 
entertained students with an appealing show 
to complement their concert. Not your 
ordinary all-girl group, the Bangles not only 
know how to control their instruments, but 
also the crowd. With a definate "sensual" 
undertone to not only several songs but to 
their entire concert, the girls had most of the 
guys in the palm of their hands.
The Bangles have been many times 
compared to the all-male Beatles. Their 
shifting combinations of harmony singing, 
strongly recalls the vocals of Lennon and 
McCartney. A high point of their debut
album was a tune called "Going Down to 
Liverpool," and on the new album, they 
affect Liverpulian accents here and there on 
their version of "September Girls," which 
was written as a Beatles homage by Alex 
Chilton a decade ago.
Guitarist Susanna Hoffs dominated most of 
the vocals on the group's most popular 
songs. She was very versatile, from her 
delicate high points on most songs to the 
pop-psychadelia in "Manic Monday." 
Bassist Michael Steele showed to be one of 
the bands most interesting members. With 
her debut in Different Light as a singer and 
songwriter, she gives the band variety from 
her moodiness alto to her "talk-sing" styles 
of Bob Dylan. Overall, the group's 
continued on page D5

---------------------------------------------------

November 4,1986—The Tartan—Page D5
Concert to air on MTV on November 26th
enthusiasm, vigor, and stage show really are 
a true companion to their singular sound, 
development, and potential.
The only real problem with the concert was 
that the group saved their four popular 
songs for the very end. "The Hero Takes the 
Fall," "If She Knew What She Wants," and 
"Manic Monday" were all placed in the last 
half hour or so of the concert. This was 
probably due to the concert being designed 
for MTV. Opening with Manic Monday or 
another equally pop song might have been 
beneficial. Their most popular song, "Walk 
Like and Egyptian," was saved for their first
encore, as to be expected. The rest of their 
songs were relatively unknown to most 
people, except for the true Bangles fans.
The Mosque was not exactly packed, but 
those students who attended the concert had a 
really good show. The endearingly girlish, 
enthusiastic Bangles knew what we wanted, 
showed a classic 60's-based pop method of 
playing music, and gave a rather sensuous 
show reminding all in attendance they were 
both females and a great rock group.
Students Against Multiple Sclerosis meets 
every Sunday at 1 PM in Scotland Yard. 
Contact Joe Boltz or Marcus Muster at 
Alpha Tau Omega for more information.
Recent graduatejeff Meuller, gives another inspiredversion of ‘The Bird”
Last years MS Co-Chairmen, Rich Millerand Mouse were on hand
TV's VJ Mark Goodman was emcee for the concert
near capacity crowd stood on top of their chairs, cheering wildly
Photos By: Albrecht T. PoWell and Jon Kaplan
MI V s film crews had to use hand held cameras when the floor cams broke

---------------------------------------------------

InkspotsBLOOM COUNTYProvided by SDC
lessee... oaCCC
'MRS. GRANOLA. 1OFFER
mse tiWhhWrh MWj
YOUR BLESSING „.UH.." 
NO. *MAPAM, flccen 
faèhè tiWhhWrhCCC èjCh
000/m
BOWKSeæmtBOSOMS/
m U*N*UCCC 
aèjèh . tièhhHb^
OF SOME
BLOSSOMS..:
N.llèkf west
BLOSSOMS AS A
tièhhHb^ Ffm vie
tWfIrWMrA
tiWWrèjhp
.mi,mir 
EXACTLY ARE WE?
. fjèè hiWfag
SO-YOUtiE GOING TO MARRY
urne ^Hji gCC rA 
snpe jjHblèhh g
M m .jkHè WM
Wl&sî I MYm*yes Mm. 
mbetcm/
ANP YOU, LOLA, YOU WANT TOMARRY..,UH.
eermW..
i.ers w SHOOTA 
ime.WKM AWM,
Atipstrrr.
\ . *
Wimmr'M/MP
mcmsomsm.
6WS.mHK A FBW 
BKBUS-9CKEM A FBW
WâAmœjir itemi...
omr/'Fvme
SON-IN-
LAW.?
fiCWMMPPy
10 me ANOTHER 
Wà <N THISam#
"There, I found just enough month
GREETINGS 
ANL7 
SALUTATIONS, 
MR. GRANOLA.
Voyages of the Stellar Lemming
boss -Hney^Êcre; 
opuUA ha\fe-k) us*,BoWVygoiKK, ou^ìnéRoéS
e>OOST its) THfciR. RfctfTtt* Ate- 
CAR, UfeADfcD WR 'Ç&RT
____ DiSTRid--
ü^L<
tèl.ohè' aWbèACC AWo ¦bWI 
.f Abe 25, faèjèNh hWrètWkH 
r ve pern?- tèffèj fa.b .CPd
MIH6P MEN PENGUIN. HIM 
AFE JERKS. ABOUT THAT
v vLeWj£~~^
m «tìltacM 
fterPHom^Ui
zooev.m
PRUMMER FOR
'me hlor
MONKEYS "*
PONT
t SFvrr, 
MOTHER.
FOR OOP'S SAKE, 
LOLA, WHY A 
PENGUIN?
OH, YOU 
KNOW... 
we BOY 
WTTH THE HAIR.
YES.
HOW ABOUT HIM?
Volumooe8¡3:30 AM.
TPP^-------------'m
WE'RE HAVING A FEW 
BEERTH ANP WATCHING 
THOME WONPERFUL TV 
WORTS PROGRAMM.
YOU'RE
PRUNK.
*OPUS? - 
YOU IN THERE
UNPERGOm 
"MALE 
BON PINO* 
WITH MR 
FATHER.
\ awo>,
.APfWENTLY, 
IT INVOLVES 
REREATEP 
VOMmNO/
COMING.
rA urne
TURTLE
POOR
WE INTERRURT FOR A
/FONLY I PtPNT 
HAVE 70 CONTINUETHIS EPIS0P6-.
MY/HOUTH 
FEELS UKE 
VELCRO,.
MAPONNA Lems sew FOR GEORGE ÔHULT2 /SEAN FURIOUS /
MRS SHULTZ PHILOSOPHICAL1MWSTXKT 5l>C 
SOC.|*L BfoXT-
Comics

---------------------------------------------------

by Kurt ShawEd Baranoski
by Jim Voorhees
A PEW DAYS CATER OUR TEAM WENT AGAINST SOMEEUROPEAN BOYS J IN WRESTLING.IT WAS DORlNG MY MATCH THM" TWElR BEST WRESTLER FOULED ME , WHEN I WAS CLOSE TO A TftKtOOWN.
LATER ON IN THE LOCKER ROOMS, I TRIEDTO APOLOGIZE FOR MY ACTIONS. MI WILL NOT FORGIVE OR FORC.CT THIS,. AMERIKANER.r mu11 ,Nubr Cang
i M Uvs ty44ue9 4o 6Mssph BKvB M kSdASB pcpdC dnRp GaEGpdEIMEP Paah s6adBscvEg sKM6 vEh hpGOph KMcr a<-MansRCr Up Updp DISQUALIFIED.
NEXT WEEK
' TIMES ’
Two/____TV»'A6
\re to buy us a new couch!
The Carnegie Space Mellon by Thurston W. Jeffries
¦*» WHAt W X CWÍT ïfcUEVt TUÖ .' -mt umiAwaS
UTS. CEPO? ¦K»t>*T>*ViCJC
MlO/BK weiter» CUtoM 
AHb 'fOO 'bEObC Tb Mtttfc A 
f*.*i NPKSS FotTXOA TO 
FjUt»! QOOOW .oMtOF
'! HB ,¥<MtR£>», WH A>T 
TO AL*. 
jTHC. VoSAK*4S THW 
IwÖCS OM1HC
p'UW---
•So MondaMy--- iWHUtE T>»t> SC kkHlta£ TWEMT
Meanwhile...
2>*Bd*l+oQu€aJ!5 
5it£pocker, oÇÇ
-IW King's Bishop?
CMUtants by Translucia Baboon & Klutz KaboomTofally ÍBr\pC35't>ÍeíI
&oV X'll P^a 
&ü>4to)0cn H- !lOüTJIDfTNE LKTURt HAU. [7WE- JTBRr RE*ar BM/w To PICK UP.
btu-,k/£ n.of -mtuD «* *** TW/i li A MMiur------,WW-
by Jeff Diehl
>nofio T4k£ *»*rr «w ” HIM, UUSSr »i 0300 W LAU«,H5
by Kneep Debends
Stwpt J, st^ii /
O. stufici «0*3 <*F
-to^K^tootiV (« ,T r 
K-oL)*t!Ä' -
Au $Ko*/U 6f cn
V*A •<** iÄ«rtrabcY.PULL DOWN
•» ¿*se »F ’ìrs^ Nonrv ^s=Q>«rN zia
XV* AJ

---------------------------------------------------

Page D8—The Tartan—November 4,1986
Alligator Records re-releases blues classics
By DAN WEIR
Tartan Assistant Entertainment Editor
Blues fans rejoice! Alligator records, a 
Chicago-based company, is breathing new 
life into one of the few truly American 
musical forms. The "Rockback" series 
features re-releases of such blues greats as 
Johnny Winter, Koko Taylor, Albert 
Collins, Dr. John and Delbert McClinton as 
well as some riveting discoveries in the likes 
of Lil' Ed and the Blues Imperials. 
Alligator's mission is to re-introduce blues, 
roots rock n’ roll and reggae to a younger 
generation polluted with superficiality and 
gimmickery. The releases represent classic 
recordings of "Genuine Houserockin' Music" 
which are no longer in print on their original 
labels. Says Alligator, " The albums kick 
off a major re-issue series of material of 
timeless value which the big labels have Cut 
out."
Dr. John's Gumbo showcases the talents 
of one of New Orleans' finest, Mac "Dr. 
John" Rebennack. An infectious blend of 
dixieland, rock n' roll and funk, the album 
traces the career of Dr. John; from his days 
as a studio musician" with Professor 
Longhair, Huey Smith and Little Richard to 
the present. Those not familiar with Dr. 
John will immediately recognize this man’s 
unmistakable voice: a scratchy, baritone 
garble that chugs through the album's 12 
cuts like Tom Waits with strep. The 
anthology features mostly New Orleans 
standards -- songs that had an invaluable 
impact on the young Dr. John of the mid­
fifties. In the liner notes, John 
painstakingly credits his various mentors 
with a particular riff of solo. In this, the 
record is something of a history course in 
the New Orleans Sound.
One of the more colorful notes reads, "... the song ("Iko Iko") was originally called 
"Jockamo" and it has a lot of Creole patois 
in it. Jockamo means "jester" in the old 
myth. It is Mardi Gras music, and the 
Shaweez was one of the many Mardi Gras 
groups who dressed up in far out Indian 
costumes and came on as Indian tribes. The 
tribes used to hang out on Clairbome 
Avenue and used to get juiced up there 
getting ready to perform and 'second line' in
their own special style during Mardi Gras. 
That’s dead and gone because there's a 
freeway where those grounds used to be. 
The tribes were like social clubs who lived 
all year for Mardi Gras, getting their 
costumes together. Many of them were 
musicians, gamblers, hustlers and pimps."
Dr. John attributes his raunchy piano solos 
and vocal approach to a long association 
with Longhair, Huey Smith and others. He 
notes, " I thought the people might enjoy 
hearing the root music from New Orleans 
which was maybe the chief ingredient in 
what we know today as rock n' roll." 
Roughhou$iri the premier release from Lil' 
Ed and the Blues Imperials is a biting, nasty 
essay in good-time rock n' roli. A staple in 
Chicago’s West Side, the boys deliver blues 
with bare-boned intensity easily matching 
the Fabulous Thunderbirds and other more 
exposed blues combos. From the first cut, 
Lil' Ed (who looks suspiciously like JJ. 
Walker) demonstrates back-breaking slide 
work and powerful, textural voice that echos 
of B.B. King. Over ten years old, the band 
has paid its dues many times over in the 
gritty joints of the West Side and has. 
recently enjoyed a growing popularity 
outside Chicago, with appearances at the 
Chicago Blues Festival and regular gigs at 
B.L.U.E.S. and Blue Chicago on the North 
Side.
A bio of the band tells the story of a true 
blues band: hard-working Joes by day, 
bluesmen by night. "Lil' Ed still works at 
the same job he's had since he was 17 - he’s 
a buffer at the Red Carpet Car Wash. His 
half-brother and bassman, James "Pookie" 
Young drives a school bus..." -- this is 
classic stuff! Alligator staffer, Hilton 
Weinberg recalls a studio session with the 
band on the West Side:"... the tape had been 
running, five songs had been recorded -- and 
there hadn't been any second takes! No, all 
we had on tape was the rawest, hippest, 
happiest gutbucket houserockin' music we'd 
heard since Hound Dog Taylor and the 
Houserockers!"
Johnny Winter’s Third Degree features 
several special guests and an array of blues 
styles, including guest appearances by his 
original blues trio of Tommy. Shannon,
Lil' Ed (far right) takes time off from his day job to play the blues
A New Orleans legend, Dr. John, is once
Uncle John "Red" Turner and Dr. John. 
Johnny also plays two acoustic cuts on the 
National Steel Guitar (the first time he's 
played the National in the studio since 
1977). Johnny became a professional 
musician at the-age of fourteen, when he and 
his keyboard-wizard brother Edgar formed 
Johnny and the Jammers in their home town 
of Beaumont, Texas. Their first single, 
"Schoolboy Blues" was released when 
Johnny was only fifteen.
Third Degree confirms Winter's place on
again on the record store shelves
the list of top guitarists in the world. In the 
November 1986 issue of Guitar Player 
magazine, writer and editor Jas Obrecht 
writes, "Winter singes on Third Degree 
with some of his best playing ever. Fiery 
and flamboyant, it is a classic album by an 
American blues-rock legend."
For purchasing information on Alligator's 
Rockback Series write: Alligator Records & 
Artist Management, Inc. Box 60234 
Chicago, 111. 60660.
Billy Joel mixes old and new hits to give an exceptional show
By JOSH RUBEN
Tartan Staffwriter
The Billy Joel concert proved to be one of 
the most exiting shows of the year. Last 
Monday, a packed Civic Arena enjoyed.a 
range of classic songs and recent hits as 
Billy Joel displayed his instrumental and 
vocal talents.
The crowd ranged from little kids to senior 
citizens. The majority of the fans were 
anxious to hear one song in particular- 
"Piano Man." They wanted to hear what it 
sounded like live because as one woman 
said, "This is my first, and last Billy Joel 
concert"
The show was to start at 7:30, but started 
half an hour later. To pass the time, a 
"wave" was passed around the arena. Out of 
the darkness, Billy yelled out the "1,2,3,4.." 
opening to "Matter of Trust." The crowd 
was brought to its feet as the band pounded 
out the song. Drummer, Liberty Devito, 
was going all out on the opening number. 
Joel has a powerful voice and one wonders 
how he can sing full strength and still sound 
good for two and a half hours. Amazingly, 
even when he sang ballads, Joel still- 
maintains the same strong rich sound.
The stage was devoid of everything except 
the instruments. The speakers were 
suspended and the sound equipment was 
under the stage. The stage looked very open 
and the players had room to move, which is 
something Billy loves to do. There were 3
keyboards and one piano which Billy played, 
one at each comer of the stage. The 
keyboards swiveled so that fans on the sides 
and behind the stage could see well. The 
"emptiness" of the stage was a relief from 
other concerts which are usually dominated 
by huge speakers and mamoth aplifiers. The 
lighting was coordinated to enhance the 
music as the stage was bathed in various 
colors that changed due to the mood and 
style of each song. - Clearly, the staging of 
the show was quite unique.
After the opening song, Joel sat down at 
the baby grand piano and played a song that 
he played ”13 years ago when he opened for 
the Doobie Brothers at the Syria Mosque." 
The crowd went crazy when they heard the 
familiar harmonica opening to "Piano Man."
The concert just happened to be on the 
same night as the last game of the World 
Series. Joel, an avid Mets fan, announced 
scores throughout the evening. He asked, 
"A lot of you have got to be National 
League (Mets) fans?" The crowd was 
dominated by boos and he dragged back t© 
his piano.
His "established" fans got a real treat 
when Joel played "Vienna." "This song is 
not in the hit area," he commented, "we just 
like doing it." He then played "Allentown" 
which struck a nerve with the Pittsburgh 
crowd. The lyrics of closing steel mills and 
unemployment subdued the crowd even 
though the band pounded out the song.
"Goodnight Saigon" got a mixed reaction 
from the audiance. One girl from Pitt said, 
"I Love the music but I hate the words...it 
always makes me cry." The song about the 
Vietnam experience uses a small chorus of 
Viet Nam Veterans which adds to the 
emotion of the song.
A peice of paper was handed to him and 
Joel played "Take Me Out To the Ballgame" 
and read that the Mets were losing 1-0 in the 
2nd inning. He responded to the large 
number of cheering Red Sox fans, "It ain't 
over until the fat lady sings."
He did a quick David Letterman 
impression and sang "Innocent Man." He 
made a real show of the 50's style "The 
Longest Time." Joel told stories of how 
guys sang in "the locker room, gym, 
bathroom, anything that had a good echo 
sounded good to sing in." He was all over 
the stage shaking hands with the crowd who 
threw flowers to him. There were security 
guards sitting in front of the stage keeping 
fans back, but after the song started, the 
crowd just pushed against the stage. The 
people did not get unruly and Joel on, 
several occasions, stuck the microphone 
down allowing the people to sing along.
This concert, like all concert did have its 
faults. The most obvious was the volume. > 
For most songs, the amplification did need 
to be high. For others, especially the 
balads, the loudness hindered the quality of 
the music.
Joel wanted to get somber after he read the 
latest baseball update. The Mets were down 
3-0,’ but it did not get him down. Joel 
cranked out a series of hard rock and roll 
which got the crowd on its feet for the 
duration of the show. "Only the Good Die 
Young," "Still Rock and Roil To Me," the 
lesser known "It's Just a Fantasy," and "You 
May Be Right," were all played in 
succession and Joel,. the band, and the 
audience went crazy.
The band finished the set, shook hands and 
went backstage. The crowd screamed and 
performed the concert ritual of holding up lit 
matches and cigarette lighters. So went the 
first encore with the group playing "Uptown 
Girl." Joel then donned his wayfarers and 
did "Tell Her About It."
The band left the stage again and there was 
some doubt if they would come out again. 
They finally did and performed "Big Shot." 
The crowed had been standing for almost 30 
minutes and did not want to sit down as they 
called for a third encore. *
Joel was alone on stage-egging the crowd 
on. After about 5 minutes, he called his 
band back and was informed, by fellow New 
Yorker, Devito, that the Mets were ahead 4-
3. The last song was "This Night" and the 
audience swayed with raised arms. It was a 
fitting, calming end to an exiting show. As 
icing on the cake for Joel, who recieved a 
fond farewell from his adoring fans, the Mets 
won the game and the Series, 8-5.

---------------------------------------------------

November 4,1986—The Tartan—Page D9
Joe Bob is back with Toxic Avenger and Video
By JOE BOB BRIGGS
Drive-In Movie Critic
Last week I bought some Encyclopedia 
Britannicas. I didn’t mean to. I went to the 
State Fair of Texas, and I was just hangin 
around over by the "Mister Mutilator" 
commercial blender demonstration, which is 
right next to the strap-on hiney-vibrator 
cushions ($34 this year), and the next thing I 
knew I wanted to have three billion years of 
wisdom inside my brain.
There was this guy named Wendell, and he 
didn't have a job so he was sellin 
encyclopedias at the State Fair, and he come 
up to me and convinced me I was stupid for 
not havin a map of Swahililand in my trailer 
house and a picture of ever mammal that eats 
its young on Muslim holidays.
The way he does this is he says, "Is there 
ever anything you wanted to look up but 
you didn't have nothing to look it up in?"
And I said, "Just one thing. How many 
mammals are there that eat their young on 
Muslim holidays and what do they look 
like?"And he jumped right on that, and said, 
"Looky here." And then he explained how 
you can’t just look under "M" in the 
encyclopedia like in the second grade World 
Book, cause that wouldn't work. You got to 
go to the 24-volume Orthopedia first and 
look under "I" for "Islamic," which is the 
same thing as Muslim,.and then you got to 
go to the 38-volume "Great Ideas of the 
Northwestern World" and flip through it till 
you find a picture of a whale or a manatee, 
then you double the numbers next to that 
and it tells you what page to go directly to 
in the Encyclopedia Britannica for further 
reading.
After he explained it, I knew I had to have 
one, so I asked him how much it was.
He told me the particular one we were 
looking in cost $95,000 retail, but they had 
it on State Fair special for $92,000. But I 
couldn't afford that one so he went down to 
the Mink-Tale bindings with complimentary 
Atlas of Antarctica, and that was just 
$48,000 and I told him I couldn't pay for 
that one, either. And so he said, "Well, we 
do have this one over here that costs 
$1,500."
And I don't know, it was just such a 
bargain I couldn't pass it up, and so I 
explained how I didn't really have any money 
on me, and he said, "No problem," and he 
put me on the 30-year payout for just $144 a 
month. And then after I signed all the 
papers, he said they'd have to send em out to
me from Chicago, cause Encyclopedia 
Britannica is this company up there of some 
of the wisest guys in the world, with Ph.D.s 
and L.L.D.S and V.D.s, and what they do is 
they sit up in Chicago all day long thinkin 
about nuclear energy and writin up new 
volumes of the encyclopedia and then they 
put out all the collected wisdom that the 
world has ever wised up to and they get a 
bunch of oilfield workers named Wendell to 
convince people like me that they don’t need 
to eat next year cause they'll be payin out 
this money to be smart. And then at the end 
of the year they send you a Yearbook and 
charge you another $144. And after he 
explained it I knew I'd made a great deal, 
cause they ARE the smartest guys in the 
world I ever met
Speaking of Phi Beta Kappa aerobic dance 
instructors, "The Toxic Avenger" is the 
latest masterpiece from drunks at Troma 
Films in New York City, who spent ONE 
HUNDRED DOLLARS making this flick, 
up from their usual budget of $75. It's the 
story of a sensitive health spa mop-boy, the 
mutant offspring of Jerry Lewis, Who gets 
tricked into dressing in a pink tutu by four 
yuppie hit-and-run drivers and then falls into 
a vat of lime-green nuclear waste, turns into 
Mister Potato Head, and rampages through 
the New Jersey metropolis of Tromaville, 
ripping apart the street scum, until he falls 
in love with a blind girl with huge breasts 
and goes on a campout. Featuring some of 
the finest Jewish character actors in southern 
Ohio, directed by the man who brought you 
"When Nature Calls, You've Gotta Go," this 
is the drive-in "China Syndrome."
Eight breasts. Nineteen dead bodies. One 
motor vehicle chase, with three explosions. 
Automotive pinball (dead Puerto Ricans 
count 30 points, children under 12 extra 
credit). Monster sex. Hiney barbecue. Rear- 
wheel head crushing. Dope-smoking toxic 
watse haulers. Hula-hooping monster. Litde- 
old-lady crowbar bashing. Nautilus head 
slicing. Gratuitous gay hairdressers. Tutu 
Fu. Drive-In Academy Award nominations 
for Pat Ryan Jr., as the beached-whale 
mayor, for literally losing his guts on 
camera; Andree Maranda, as the blind bimbo, 
for her two enormous talents; and Mitchell 
Cohen, in the title role, for sayin, "I think 
I'm out of control; every day I go out and I 
mash people and I tear them apart"
Three stars.
Video release of the week:
"Poor White Trash" (1957); There's a lot of
v ^ v^Thhe Link
SPS v-Mc r-yudlg r:- cBDJOHdlu
Toxic Avenger” proves that this girl will go home with ANYBODY
WRONG info being spread around about his 
drive-in classic, includin everything that’s on 
the video box. Here’s what you need to 
know: It's the screen debut of Peter Graves 
as an architect from Poughkeepsie, N.Y., 
who goes down to the Louisianna swamp, 
falls in love with a dark-haired honey that 
just got raped the night before by a local 
crocodile named Ulysses, and ends up makin 
the sign of triple-throated walrus during a 
tropical hurricane. It was originally released 
as "Bayou," but the producer was so p.o.ed
that he bought it back from United Artists, 
put it out again in 61 as "Poor White 
Trash," and played it on double bills with 
Roger Corman's "Shame" (also called "The 
Intruder," the film debut of William Shatner) 
up until the 70s. What made it so HOT is 
the rape scene with Lita Milan, which isn't 
much of a rape scene but for 1957 it was a 
sizzler. Great brain-damaged Cajuns doing 
circus tricks between scenes. On the Drive-In 
"Best of the Fifties" List. Four Stars.
Check em out
SORRENTO'S PIZZA
Atwood St. Across From Post Office
WE DELIVER FREE
621-9129
Thin Crust Pizza Thick Crust Pizza Calzones • Hoagies Pizza Bagels Dinners
Special:
Large Pizza 
$4.50
Expresso and Cappucino Coffee

---------------------------------------------------

Page DIO—The Tartan—November 4,1986
Not as cute as the Bangles,
By MARK CARR 
Tartan Poetry Critic
On Wednesday, October 29, while the 
Bangles be-bopped at the Mosque, Len 
Roberts read a selection of his poetry in the 
Adamson Wing. Roberts, who grew up in 
Cohoes, New York, comes from French 
Canadian stock. Characterized by long lines 
and narrative style, his free verse 
compositions reflect a strong prose 
influence. Nevertheless, his language is 
carefully chosen; his lines ring with clarity 
and concision. His latest bode is From the 
Dark, published by State University on New 
York Press; The Driving, a new chapbook of 
his poetry, is due out this winter.
Roberts' reading focused on his childhood 
experiences and impressions of relatives. He 
has a wealth of material to draw from—as he 
explained to the audience, his family 
members suffer a range of disorders, from 
agoraphobia to Alzheimer's. While the poet 
didn't make light of these illnesses, he
showed that they can have a bright—and 
often humorous—side. In one of his 
selections, Roberts captured the charm of his 
aunt's brief second childhood before her lapse 
into senility. He also treated his mother's 
eccentricity and brother’s mental illness with 
convincing emotion.
Because of his background, the author tends 
to concentrate on the dark side of the human 
experience. In "The Odds," the most 
memorable poem of the evening, Roberts 
detailed his feelings toward a grade school 
classmate who died of cancer. He managed to 
move the audience through strength of 
imagery and directness of presentation—there 
is little blatent sentiment in his work. 
Roberts did lapse into a sentimental tone 
when writing of hsi young son, but these 
poems retained a freshness and honesty that 
saved them from sappiness.At the start of the reading, Roberts spoke 
in a clipped monotone and seemed to hurry 
through his poems. As he settled into voice,
The Airlines Transportation Company
— Official Airlines Carrier —
will now operate service to the Greater Pittsburgh International Airport 
for Carnegie Mellon University and the University of Pittsburgh students 
direct from the campuses.
Our Thanksgiving schedule will be on these dates: Nov. 24, 25, and 26. 
Five (5) departures each day.
Carnegie Mellon Departures
_______(GS1A building)
7:45 am 
9:45 am 
11:45 am 
1:45 pm 
3:45 pm 
5:45 pm
Return Services — Sunday, Nov. 30 — Each hour 4 pm through 9 pm.
Rate: $8.00 per person each way.
however, he read with -more inflection. 
While he sometimes qualified or over­
explained his work, his patter was usually 
entertaining. The collection of characters in 
his poems provided him with a lotn of 
anecdotes. And, although he doesn’t look as 
good, he certainly sounds better and has 
more to say than the Bangles.
Len Roberts' reading was the third 
installment in the Carnegie Mellon 
University Visiting Writers Series. The next 
installment is on November 12 and will 
feature fiction writer Charles Baxter. All 
readings are at 8:00 p.m. in the Adamson 
Wing and are followed by an informal 
reception.
WRCT TOP TEN LIST
ArtistTitleLabel
l)My Dad Is Dead..And He's Not Gonna TakeWt Valentine
It Anymore.
2)Psychic TVMagical Mystery D Tour EPTemple (UK)
3)TrialMoments of CollapseRough Trade
4)Bad BrainsI Against ISST
5)World Saxaphone QuartetPlays Duke EllingtonNonesuch
6government IssueLPFountain of Youth
7)Camper Van BeethovenTake the SkinheadsRough Trade (UK)
8)Peter M. HamelBowlingCelestial Harmonies
9)Half LifeOrganum
10)Circus of Deathlocal tapes
At B’nai B’rith Hillel:SHABBAT SPECIAL
November 14,1986
Services: 5:30pm Dinner: 6:30pm
Program following dinner presented by KIRUV 
Topic: Interdating / Intermarriage 
Reservations a must: 621 -8875 
Cost: $3 for members; $3.50 for non-members
Place: Dr. Eli Goldstein Lounge 
315 S. Bellefield Avenue
* There will be a continuation of the program on Saturday.
Eddie Jobson and Ryuichi Sakamoto liven Piano One
Yanni, born in Greece, brings heavily synthesized music to life
continued from page D1
best in rock. His solos in 
“Endless November” rock effortlessly, and 
“Orangutango,” one of the best of all the 
albums, features Goodman playfully crying 
out over a Latin beat. Another fine track is 
"Outcast Islands" which highlights many 
members of his ensemble in a mixture of 
soft, acoustic instruments with the exotic, 
howling electric guitar. The piece is put 
together in parts, each part representing a 
different island, and when they all come to­
gether the cacophony of sounds is suberb.
Piano One 
Various Artists
Of all the New Age releases, not just 
Private Music, this is the finest of them all. 
Featuring four gifted keyboard masters, each 
presents his own personal composition that 
is a showcase for his individual area of 
expertise. Joachim Kuhn, a student of 
classical piano, shows his technical mastery 
of syncapation in both his works : “New 
Feelings” and “Housewifes Song.” “New 
Feelings” is a blatent parody of the Jose
Felicano classic, but it stays too close to the 
orginal to really stand apart. “Housewifes 
Song,” on the other hand, is brilliantly 
scored and meticulously played. Both hands 
work at a furious pace, bringing together an 
extremely difficult melody/counter-melody 
and making it sound easy. Of Eddie Jobson's 
three contributions, “Disturbance in Vienna”
is by far the best. It is a neo-waltz; he 
jumbles up the tempo randomly, with a 
simple form and structure. Jobson
concentrates on the execution and control, 
rather than sheer difficulty. Eric Watson, a 
highly sought after jazz pianist, gives an 
uneven performance of his “Puppet Rower.” 
continued on page Dllbut more profound
Violinist Jerry Goodman spans the musical spectrum his newest effort

---------------------------------------------------

November 4,1986—The Tartan—Page Dll
jviir y 'inSì'dj
• • * IT*
Talk Hebrew over 
lunch!
Everyone Welcome, regardless of 
fluency 
(or lack thereof) 
Every Wednesday at 12:30 in 
Salads Plus
Afternoon religious services 
now held on campus
4:00 PM Monday—Thursday
Meet Outside Wean Hall 6127.
Classifieds
WANTED! Aggressive, enthusiastic 
students to market Winter and Spring 
Break vacations! For more information, call 
Student Travel Services at 1-800-648-4849.
$60.00 PER HUNDRED PAID for
remailing letters from home. Send self- 
addressed, stamped envelope for 
information/application. Associates, Box 95- 
B, Roselle, NJ 07203.
WORD PROCESING by professional 
typist — discount to college students — 
will pick up and deliver — 24 hour 
answering center. Call <,:>53-2426.
Research Papers: 15,278 Available!
Catalog $2.00. Research, 11322 Idaho 
#206XT, Los Angeles 90025. TOLL-FREE 
HOT LINE: 800-351-0222, Ext. 33.
Visa/MC or COD.
Permanent Hair Removal — Jane
Maizlech and Associates Registered
Electrologists, Recommended by physicians,
355 Fifth Ave. (Downtown) 642-4451, 3347 
Forbes Ave. (Oakland) 687-3993.
Facials—Manicures—Pedicures—Waxing.
Voung attorney with business
experience, management skills, capital, 
and an entrepreneurial spirit desires a
partnership with individual(s) possessing a 
marketable idea. I am tired of creating wealth 
for others. Lets create wealth together. Send 
information to A. Vann, 5740 Howe Street, 
Apt. #2, Pgh., 15232.
Babysitter needed. Regent Square home. 
I wo days per week, some evenings. Must 
have experience with infants and babysitting 
references. Call 371-3842 after 6 PM.
Is it true you can buy Jeeps for 44$
through the U.S. government? Get the facts 
today! Call 1-312-742-1142 ext. 3401-A.
FLEA MARKET! Monday, November 10 
& Tuesday, November 11, 9-4 p.m. at 
Pittsburgh Blind Association. 300 South 
Craig. '
BANNERS FOR ALL
OCCASIONS.Games, parties, graduation, 
homecoming. Same day service, nation-wide 
delivery. Low prices $4/ft. Call sign express 
264-7577.
Gain experience and EARN MONEY
while working on Fortune 500 companies 
marketing programs on campus. Flexible 
hours each week. Call 1-800-821-1543. 
Interested in running a college ski 
trip to an exclusive Vermont resort? Earn 
extra bucks while you ski and party. Call
Cindy at 802-644-8851.
Personals
We would, 
but you
never send
us any!!!!
Leo Kottke’s guitar mastery is showcased in latest release
continued from page DIO
His smooth, subtle style quickly evaporates 
into an overly dominant treble line. Ryuichi 
Sakamoto, however, uses his left hand 
brilliantly in the haunting ‘“Merry 
Christmas, Mister Lawrence.” It is hard to 
believe that such a simple rift can evoke the 
powerful emotions it does. If you only buy 
one Private Music LP, this should be the 
one.
all of his works on “Shout” are flawless. 
Every lick is executed cleanly. Standouts 
include the gentle “Easter Again,” “Three 
Quarter North” with a lovely duet between 
the guitar and a synthesizer, the mellow 
“First To Go,” and the foot stomping “Air 
Proofing Two.”
Theme of Secrets 
Eddie Jobson
heightens, so too do the images he creates. 
The album is perfect study music, as it does 
not hold to any one pattern too long.
If you wish to purchase any or all of these
albums you can call Private Music direct and 
toll-free: 1-800-382-4025. Or you can write 
them at : Private Music, 220 East 23rd 
Street, New York, NY 10010.
Chinese-American Lucia Hwong blends two cultures together into one
Jobson, whose musical career has included 
working with Frank Zappa, Jethro Tull, 
King Krimson, and Roxy Music. His 
reputation as a master of the keyboard is 
world wide. On "Secrets," Jobson conjures 
up images of empty space and wholistic 
images. The music often wanders aimlessly 
off track, but somehow always finds its way 
back. “Lakemist” best exemplifies Jobson's 
uncanny ability to wander off track. It begins 
as if it were all a dream. As the music
Shout Toward Noon 
Leo Kottke
A legend among folk circles, this release is 
the only acoustic LP of the lot ~ he does use 
a synthesizer for a couple tracks. Back in 
1969, Kottke released his first album and 
sold nearly half a million copies. Quite a 
feat for a solo guitarist. It is easy to 
understand why Kottke is so popular — he 
plays as if he has three hands. Technically,

---------------------------------------------------

Page D12—The Tartan—November 4,1986
Announcements
Richard M. Cyert will have open office hours for students between 3 pm and 5 pm on Monday, December 3, in his office, 602 Warner Hall. Students who wish to meet with the president should telephone his secretary at 268-2200 to set up an appoinment.The Roman Catholic Chaplaincy celebrates mass on campus at 12:30 pm, Monday through Friday in Skibo room 39; 7 pm, Saturdays and 10:30 am, Sundays in the Graduate School of Industrial Administration Auditorium. A solemn mass is celebrated at noon on Sundays in Heinz Chapel. For more information call 681-3181.Buhl Science Center. Laserium. Journey to an energetic and colorful world where blazing lights and magical images glow and gyrate to music by rock's most spectacular artists in Laserium, presented live under the stars at 8 pm and 9:15 pm, Thursday through Sunday; and 3 pm, Saturday. For current concerts call 321-5554.
"Color," nineteen do-it-yourself modules explore the mysteries behind everyday color phenomena. Permanent exhibit at 1 pm - 5 pm, Sunday through Thursday; 1 pm - 9:30 pm, Friday; and 10 am - 5 pm, Saturday. For more information call 321-4300.
"Bio Corner," interact with newly-hatched chicks and ducklings - new ones hatching weekly. Permanent exhibit at 1 pm - 5 pm, Sunday through Thursday; 1 pm - 9:30 pm, Friday; and 10 am - 5 pm, Saturday. For more information call 321-4300.
"Image Imagination," hands-on modules explore amazing images — let your imagination run wild. Permanent exhibit at 1 pm - 5 pm, Sunday through Thursday; 1 pm - 9:30 pm, Friday; and 10 am - 5 pm, Saturday. For more information call 321- 4300.
"Foucault Pendulum," displays proof of the Earth’s rotation. Permanent exhibit at 1 pm - 5 pm, Sunday through Thursday; 1 pm - 9:30 pm, Friday; and 10 am - 5 pm, Saturday. For more information call 321-4300.
"The Right Moves." You're the star performer in Buhl’s new action-packed exhibit exploring the body in motion! Exciting hands-on activities -- Momentum machine, Video Strobe, Pitch - It and more - let 
visitors investigate the mechanics of motion 
"step by step." Permanent exhibit at 1 pm - 5 pm, Sunday through Thursday; 1 pm - 9:30 pm, Friday; and 10 am - 5 pm, Saturday. For more information call 321-4300.
Miniature Railroad and Village. A Buhl tradition that has delighted visitors for generations! Trains, boats and dozens of tiny animations keep audiences spellbound! This season's exhibit sets the turn of the century countryside in each of the four seasons -- don;t miss it at 1 pm - 5 pm, Sunday through Thursday; 1 pm - 9:30 pm, Friday; and 10 am - 5 pm, Saturday. For more information call 321-4300.Pittsburgh Playhouse Jr. Children's Theatre. Jack and the Beanstalk. Do you know what A-D-V-E-N-T-U-R-E spells? Well, that’s what happens to Jack when he climbs the beanstalk! See Jack battle the Giant! See the Giant's wacky wife! See the living Harp that comes to Jack's aid! It's high flying adventure with a lot of surprises at 11 am and 3:30 pm, Saturdays; and 2:30 pm, Sundays, through November 16.
Events
Tuesday
Movies
Moscow Does Not Believe in Tears.
Three women come to Moscow in the late 1950's looking for work and love. Oscar for 
best foreign film. Pittsburgh Playhouse at 7:30 pm. Admission $2.95.
Lectures
Dept. of Architecture Lecture.
Professor Richard Becherer speaks at 8 pm 
in Weh 7500.
Special Events
French Table. The Modem Languages
Program sponsors a French Language table at 
11:30 am in the Morewood dining hall.English Table spnsored by the ESL 
(English as a Second Language) center, 11:30 
am in the Morewood dining hall.
Wednesday
Movies
Walkabout, starring Jenny Agutter, Lucian 
John and David Gumpilil. Unusual and 
fascinating story about two lost children in 
the Australian Outback and their friendship 
with an Aborigine hunter. Visually stunning.
Pittsburgh Playhouse at 7:30 pm and 9:30 
pm. Admission $2.95.
Lectures
Dept of Architecture Seminar. A1
Filoni of the McLachan, Cornelius, & Filoni, 
Inc., Architects, speaks at 12:30 pm in CFA 
206.Dept of Music Lecture. Stephen 
Carlton, Music Historian, speaks of "Franz
Schubert and Wilhelm Mueller: The
Synthesis of Romantic Poetry and Music, Part 
I: Die schoene Muellerin" at 7:30 pm in the
Alumni Concert Hall, CFA.
Workshops
Independent Job Search. Campus
interviews are not meant to be your only job 
search strategy! Come learn where else you 
can distribute your resumes using want ads, 
infonnal contacts, address directories, walk-in 
visits and employment agencies at 11:30 am 
in Skibo room 12.How to Make the Most of Your Summer. Find answers to questions like: 
How do I look for a summer job? What are 
some of the avenues I should pursue? How do 
I find out what's "out there?" and Who do I 
market myself to? at 4:30 pm in Wherrett 
room. Workshop in conjunction with SWE 
summer work expo.
Music
Dept of Music Lecture. Dr. Stephen 
Carlton speaks on "The Song Cycles of 
Shubert" at 7:30 pm in the Alumni Concert 
Hall, CFA.
Special Events
Spanish Table. The Modem Languages 
Program sponsors a Spanish Language table 
at 11:30 am in the Morewood dining hall.Herb Fair, sponsored by the Western 
Pennsylvania the Herb Society of America 
from noon to 8 pm at Winchester Thurston 
school, .555 Morewood Avenue. Use the 
Bayard street entrance. Please bring a 
shopping bag or basket.
Thursday
Movies
Baby, It's You, starring Vincent Spano 
and Rosanna Arquette. A delightful low key 
film about two high school kids falling in 
love. One is a spunky kid from Trenton; the 
other is an upper-middle class Jewish girl. 
Pittsburgh Playhouse at 7:30 pm and 9:30 
pm. Admission $2.95.Mildred Pierce, sponsored by AB Films. 
DH 2210 at 6 pm, 8 pm and 10 pm. 
Admission $1.
Lectures
Dept of Chemistry Colloquium. Dr.
David S. Kliger, Department of Chemistry, 
University of California, Santa Cruz, speaks 
on "Transient Circular Dichroism 
Spectroscopy on the Nanosecond Time Scale” 
at 3 pm in MI conference room. Coffee and 
doughnuts are served at 2:30 pm.Dept of Psychology Colloquium. Dr. 
John Michon, University of Groningen, The 
Netherlands, speaks on "Knowing Time" at 4 
pm in the Adamson Wing, BH 135. Coffee is 
served before the lecture in the Psychology 
lounge, BH 336-D.
Workshops
Cover Letter Writing. A traditional 
mass mailing of letters typically generates 
only a 3% response. Learn how to increase 
your results at 4:30 pm in Skibo room 12.
Music
Dept, of Music Guest Lecture. Bernard 
Rands speaks at 12:30 pm in the Alumni 
Concert Hall, CFA.
Special Events
German Table. The Modem Languages 
Program sponsors a German Language table at 
11:30 am in the Morewood dining hall.ROTC Scholarship meeting. An informal 
metting on scholarships and management 
training from 4:30 to 6:30 pm in the 
basement of MMC; sponsored by Army ROTC 
and everone is welcome.
Friday
Movies
Legal Eagles, starring Robert Redford, 
Debra W'inger and Daryl Hannah. Nicely 
paced romantic comedy about two lawyers 
who become attracted to each other while 
investigating a murder case. Fine
performances. Pittsburgh Playhouse at 7:30 
pm, 9:30 pm and 11:30 pm. Admission 
$2.95.Out of Africa, sponsored by AB Films. 
DH 2210 at 6 pm, 8:30 pm and midnight. 
Admission $1.
Room With a View. A lyrical version of 
E.M. Forster's Victorian novel about an upper- 
class young lady named Lucy Honeychurch 
who, on a fateful trip to Florence, discovers 
the adventurous nature she had tried to 
repress. The Carnegie Museum of Art at 8 
pm. Admission $3.70
Music
Renaissance City Woodwind Quintet Concert Anne Martindale Williams, 
principal cellist with the Pittsburgh 
Symphony Orchestra, is the special guest 
playing with the group at 8 pm in Carlow 
College's Kresge Theatre. For tickets call the 
Renaissance City Wind Music Society at 421- 
2183.Dept, of Music Guest Lecture. Antoin 
Reboulot speaks at 9:30 am and 2 pm in the 
Alumni Concert Hall, CFA.
Saturday
Movies
Last Tango in Paris, starring Marlon 
Brando and Maria Schneider. Love and/or sex 
in Paris. Brando gives another fine 
performance in this film about the anonymity 
of contemporary life. Pauline Kael of The 
New Yorker considers this movie to be a 
landmark film. Pittsburgh Playhouse at 7:30 
pm and 9:50 pm. Admission $2.95.Festival, sponsored by SDC. DH2210 at 
TBA.
Special Events
Masked Ball. Oakland Women's Center 
sponsors a Masked Ball at 8:30 pm at the 
University of Pittsburgh's William Pitt 
Union. Tickets are available at the Oakland 
Women's Center, the YWCA Women’s 
Resource Center, the Thomas MNMerton 
Center, the Gertrude Stein Memorial 
Bookshop and the East End Coop for $10. 
Tickets are also available at the door for $12. 
For more information call 648-2580.
Sunday
Movies
West Side Story, starring Natalie Wood 
and Richard Beymer. Vibrant screen version 
of the hit Broadway musical. Great Jerome 
Robbins choreography and outstanding score
by Leonard Bernstein and Stephen Sondheim 
Pittsburgh Playhouse at 7:30 pm. Admission 
$2.95.
Bachelor Party, sponsored by AB Films
DH 2210 at 6 pm, 8 pm, 10 pm and 
midnight. Admission $1.
Europe in Film Series: The Battleof Algiers. This documentary 
treatment of the Algerian war for 
independence was initially banned by French 
authorities. Concentrating on the period
1954-57, the film evokes the violence and 
terror of this protracted struggle. Adamson 
Wing, BH at 3 pm. Admission is free.
Music
Dept, of Music Graduate Recital. j.
David Hart, Organ, performs at 8 pm at the 
Calvary Episcopal Church, Shady Avenue,
Shadyside.
Dept of Music Faculty Recital.
Helen Gossard and Robert Trager, piano, 
perform at 3 pm in the Alumni Concert Hall, 
CFA.
Monday
High School Confidential!, starring 
Mamie Van Doren, Russ Tamblyn and John 
Drew Barrymore. A big bomb about an 
undercover agent infiltrating a dope ring. 
Funny to the end. Pittsburgh Playhouse at 
7:30 pm and 9:30 pm. Admission $2.95.
If you wish to place an announcement, 
miscellaneous item, or event in The Tartan, send it to ACME / University 
Relations / Carnegie Mellon University / 
Pittsburgh, PA 15213. Send it by campus 
mail to the above address or drop it off at 
5017 Forbes Ave (The house between Delta 
Upsilon and ATO).
Please include the following information 
when submitting events: Title of event, 
sponsor, brief description, location, date, and 
time. In addition, include the name and 
phone number of the person submitting the 
entry; this information will be used only to 
confirm the event.
The Tartan is not responsible for the 
accuracy or validity of any Event listing. In 
addition, it reserves the right to edit or omit 
any listing for publication.
Classified ads are taken in our office, Skibo 
Rm 50, only, and will not be taken over the 
phone.
All events are free of charge and open to the 
general CMU student population unless 
otherwise noted.
Deadline for ACME submissions is 
Wednesday at 5 pm for the next 
weeks issue.
OUTOFYOURLIFE.
AMERICAN Sx CANCER ? SOCIETY
Great American 
Smokeout 
Nov.20

---------------------------------------------------

Features
Lecture
Do You Need To 
Raise Your 
Alcohol GPA?
Silly Question Examines
SILLY QUESTION OF DA WEEK,
third in a continuing series: Which lecture 
hall on campus is the best one for sleeping?
Rob, jr. I/S: Wean 7500. No doubt about
it.Chris, jr. I/S: nahhh...Adamson Wing. If 
you don't actually go into the lecture hall, 
you can sleep on the comfy furniture in the 
foyer. Look, it's a silly question, I'm entitled 
to a silly answer.DP, jr- CS: I guess I could go with
Adamson...
Elisa, jr. psych: No, you're wrong.
7500, because you can put your feet up.
Cole, soph BSc: 7500, because it's very, 
very comfortable and very, very dark.
Smurf, soph CS: 7500. You can put 
your feet up, even if someone is in front of 
you!Ro, soph ME: 2210 Doherty. I always 
go to the top, because it's warm up there.
Rambob (ed. note: what sort of 'men' 
would allow themselves to be called "Smurf 
and "Rambob"??? Your guess is as good as 
mine...) soph Policy Management (Oh, 
they're sophomores, that's why...): Well, I 
can't really answer your question, because I 
never go to lecture. Honest! Although I 
really love to sleep in PH 225C. Whenever I 
do go to class I go there. Even if it's not 
my class. *
Smurf (there we go with that name 
again...): Gregg Hall is good, too.
Jay, soph ECE: The ones in the
basement of Hammerschlag are really warm.
Yash, fresh IM: 2210. I've slept very
Restaurant Review:
Tartan Reviews Elbow Room
Halls
comfortably in there. But the library is really 
the best place of all to sleep.
Dan, jr. Eng: 7500. No doubt about it.
Olve, jr. BSc: 7500 ?!?! (Funny
Norwegian expletives deleted) Dot sucks. 
Adamsun ist da best ov dem all. Den agen, 
vhere I kom vrom, ve schleep in der 
mountains, (ed note: scientific research has 
proven that certain tribes - I'm sorry, 
societies - in Norway sleep on the backs of 
mountain goats and other furry nomadic 
animals. My personal belief is that Olve is 
in fact a member of this primitive collective - 
excuse me, highly advanced people.)
Andy, soph ECE: 7500. No doubt about 
it.
Dave, soph IM and all-around nice 
guy in general: Stop calling me that! I 
am not a nice guy! I'm a schmeckle, got it? 
Lisa, jr. Eng: What? Oh, sleep? yeah, 
sure...where? No, I'm not tense, who me? 
No, that's not my hand shaking...is it?
Bruce, jr. I/S: Adamson can be
reeaaalllllly comfortable (he said with one 
sultry eyebrow raised and a come-hither sneer 
on his lips.)
D.P.: Did I mention that the Tartan cokes 
still suck?
Do you have a sugestión for a topic you 
think deserves to be explored in depth in a 
Silly Question round-table discusión group? 
Send it to: The Silly Question ThinkTank
% Tartan Features Editor 
Room 50 
Skibo
1. When you think you've had too 
much, what do you do?
a. Stop drinking and eat
b. Wait 30 minutes and start 
drinking again
c. Drink black coffee and get 
some fresh air
d. Grab the nearest blonde
2. How do you pace yourself at 
your a party?
a. Moderate the amount you 
drink
b. Switch from liquor to beer
c. Switch from beer to Sprite
d. Switch from grain to liquor
3. To slow the effect of Alcohol:
a. Snack while you drink
b. Eat something before hand
c. Go to the bathroom a lot
d. All of the above.
4. Labels on beer, wine and 
liquor:
a. Describe the alcohol 
"proof' of the beverage
b. List the alcohol content as a 
percentage of total volume
c. Vary in the kind of 
information they give
d. Are illegible after midnight
By JENNI SEVERA 
and JUDY HARABURDA
Tartan Resturant Critics
Tired of college cuisine? Bored with 
monotonous menus?
Pamper your palate and treat your tastebuds 
at the Elbow Room, a veritable oasis in the 
culinary desert of college life.
Imagine, if you will:
...an antique mirror and brass hatstand 
...warm melon and forest green color scheme 
...casual yet quaint Americana atmosphere 
..and the feel of a firm Crayola between your 
fingers.
We heard about this unique restraurant from 
Lynne down the hall and decided to check itout.
It was a bleak, cold Thursday evening. The 
brisk October wind swirled the crackling 
foliage as we travelled along Ellsworth 
Avenue. When we entered the restaurant, a 
warm pub-like atmosphere embraced us. 
The hostess led us to our table in the quaint, 
homey dining room. At our table, we were 
supplied with crayons with which to create 
artistic masterpieces on the paper tablecloth— 
a unique feature of this restaurant.
The tempting menu offered mainly a 
variety of salads, burgers, sandwiches and 
munchies. We ordered a tasty cheeseburger, 
mouth-watering roast beef croissant. The 
spectacular cheese fries gave new meaning to 
the word "yummy" and the almond torte was 
pure ambrosia. Service was friendly and 
speedy and the price affordable.
So forsake your physics, the heck with 
your history, put off your program, grab 
your friends and trek on over to the Elbow 
Room in Shadyside for fine food, amiable 
atmosphere, and good fun. Tell ’em Judy 
and Jenni sent you and don't forget to scrawl 
a message for the busser.
The Elbow Room is located on Ellsworth 
Street, and is open every day from 10:00 to 
2:00. They also serve a fantastic Pistacio 
( ake that we did not have a chance to try, 
but it sure looked good.
Answers:
1. Wrong. If you think you've 
had too much, it's too late. Next 
time pace yourself.
2. Moments after your first sip, 
the alcohol passes through the 
walls of your small intestinfc and 
quickly reaches your brain. 
Therefore you must moderate 
the quantity you drink. Or make 
sure that your brain and small 
intestine are at least 4 feet away 
from each other.
3. You know, some people 
think that wine and beer are 
foods. Actually, the nutritional 
value is too small to matter. 
Going to the bathroom is 
necessary to prevent painful 
bladder damage, but does little 
to moderate the effects of the 
alcohol.
4. Liquor labels record their 
"proof', a term derived from the 
custom that had young men 
"prove" their alcoholic content 
many centuries ago.

---------------------------------------------------

Page 14—The Tartan—November 4, 1986
New Radio Station Dares To Be Different
By AMANDA COHEN
Tartan Staffer iter
Finally there is a new radio station in 
town, and one really worth listening to. At 
WXXP. the DJs don’t yelp out the top-40, 
or rest assured on a foundation of hard rock, 
or casually spin the mellow disks. They 
reach out for the newest albums in the 
collection and drop the needle on the song 
that hasn't hit the air yet. In their own 
words, they "Dare to be Different."
When pushed to label the type of music 
WXXP plays, promotional director Maureen
Cassidy and DJ Phil Kirzyc were eventually 
able to agree upon "modem progressive 
rock." A typical playlist might include
REM, Echo and the Bunnymen, U2, 
Thomas Dolby, Big Country, Art of Noise, 
Billy Idol, and Eurythmics. This by no 
means implies that they never play the Who, 
the Stones, Led Zeppelin, or David Bowie, 
but WXXP tries to stay off the beaten path. 
"When we get a new album, we won't just 
play the hit," explains Kirzyc. "We try to 
expose as much as possible." And they have 
some classics, too.
WXXP is doing more than just playing the 
new music; the station also promotes the 
new concerts. When the Smiths played the 
Fulton Theatre in August, WXXP was the 
only source of advertising, and they sold out 
the whole theatre within 10 days. Last 
month they promoted the Screaming Blue 
Messiahs when they appeared at Graffiti, and 
they arranged an autograph session at Oasis 
Records and Tapes in Oakland. Their next 
big event was the recent REM concert at 
the Syria Mosque. The station doesn't just 
play progressive music; they're helping the
music to progress.
WXXP first came on the air on June 15th 
1986. It was a grand debut with a purpose - 
- their first broadcast was the Amnesty 
International concert. The studios had 
previously been used to broadcast WWCL 
an adult contemporary station. Only a year 
and a half before that, the station had been 
WNUF; the big-band sound. WXXP's 
album oriented rock format is the most successful yet.
Now 100.7 on the FM dial is the kind of 
place you can just leave your radio set 
because you can trust it to be playing 
something fun all the time. The DJs are 
amiable and care about what they are 
playing. It would seem that they are 
interested in the trivia they tell, such as 
which brother of the drummer of what band 
happened to write the song for what other 
band. They're the kind of people you want 
to talk with, not just listen to.
Phil Kirzyc, a.k.a. the Keilbasa Kid, is the 
DJ on the coveted morning shift. It allows 
him to get just a tad weirder than the other 
DJs, and he takes every opportunity to do 
so. He has a bouncy, jovial "Good 
Morning" tune; the kind that makes you 
want to get up and run to turn your radio off. 
But not too quickly, as Kirzyc also features a 
host of humorous characters and "drops," 
which are the little bits and quotes from 
movies and television.
Originally from Weirton, PA, Kirzyc came 
to WXXP after having worked for five years 
at WHCN, a rock station in Hartford, CT. 
On WHCN he had an afternoon show and an 
evening show. Is there a difference? 
"There's a lot more music in the other shifts, 
and more talk in the daytime." Kirzyc said 
he picked up some of his humor from the 
morning DJs at WHCN.
Still adjusting to the new studio, Kirzyc 
says he's happy to be working in Pittsburgh. 
"Going back home to work in your 
hometown is sometimes really hard, 
especially in radio." Kirzyc himself is not 
sure why this is so, but nonetheless, he is 
extremely content to be working at WXXP, 
and probably wouldn’t return to WHCN 
unless something drastic happened here. 
Meanwhile, he has faith in the station. "I 
think it should do really well, because 
nobody else is doing this type of format." 
He also has pride in his town. A few weeks 
ago, he described the experience of coming 
out of the Fort Pitt tunnel and seeing the 
city all at once. It was enough to make even 
non-native Pittsburgh residents proud.
Apart from the Keilbasa Kid's morning 
mania, other "double X-clusive" features 
inclued Foreign Intrigue, an all foreign rock 
show, and In Concert, a weekly concert 
series. And along the more dangerous and 
funny line is the Howard Stem show, a live, 
syndicated talk show which is featured on 
Sunday mornings. Steam is known for his 
daring on the air and touchy subject matter, 
which make him a definite ratings booster.
WXXP is currently enjoying primarily 
positive response. Naturally they aspire to 
be the best station in town, but intend to do 
so by finding their audience, and not bending 
to the requests that stray too far from their 
designated musical style. "Sales will never 
dictate what happens in programming,' 
vows Maureen Cassidy. The station also 
has a schedule which doesn't allow over 8 
minutes of commercials per hour. Though 
still developing In many ways, WXXP is 
already strong and bold. If the music is your 
style, tune in. If not, you might just change 
your mind.
We’re changing the way the world thinks.
Starting with you.
Think a Fortune 200 company has to be boring? 
Think you have to be a manager before anyone 
takes your ideas seriously? Do you think you may 
spend your entire career without getting a 
chance to prove what you can really do?
Think again.
At Apple Computer, you’re given all the 
responsibility7 you can handle. And then some. 
Your ideas aren’t encouraged — they’re 
demanded. And while our employees enjoy all 
the resources of a Fortune 200 leader, the 
resource thev relv most heavilv on is themselves.
Think fast.
About to receive an MBA, EE, CS or a degree in 
Manufacturing Technology , Industrial Engineer­
ing, or Management Information Systems? Then, 
come learn about opportunities at Apple, includ­
ing our summer internship program. We’ll be on 
campus soon: November 17th and 18th,
1986. Contact your Placement Office for details.
If you’re interested in joining us at Apple, 
send your résumé directly to: APPLE 
COMPUTER, INC., College Relations, MS-9C, 
20525 Mariani Avenue, Cupertino, CA 95014.
m
An equal opportunity employer
\ I9H6 Appk (omputir Inc Apple and the Appk Ioj<ii art rcjpMcmJ trademark's of Apple < orapuitr. bx
'¦m

---------------------------------------------------

The Objectivist Club presents
Perceptual Relativity
David Kelley, PhD.
im
The perceptual appearance of an object - the way 
it looks, sounds, feels, tastes and smells - 
depends on the nature of our sense-organs and 
the conditions of perception as well as on the 
nature of the object itself. This fact of perceptual 
relativity has played an important role in the 
philosophy of perception ever since the Greeks. It 
Has usually been interpreted as evidence that we 
do not perceive objects directly, that appearances 
are intermediary mental objects standing between 
us and things in the external world - an argument 
common among the classical British empiricists, 
the sense-data theorists of this century, and a 
number of contemporary philosophers.
But the fact should be given a realist interpretation 
instead. Introducing the concept of perceptual 
form to designate the relative aspects of 
appearance, the speaker will argue that form is not 
a subjective or mental phenomenon; and that it is 
not an intermediary object of awareness, but an 
aspect of the way we are directly aware of external 
objects and their attributes. These theses will be 
applied to different types of relativity, including 
perceptual illusions and the so-callea secondary 
qualities such as colors.
Wherrett Room, Ski bo
6:15 pm, Thursday, 6 November 1986
-funded by the Student Activities Fee-
SZhö 111AN GOURMET
Szechuan Gourmet ranks with 
best for Asian eating
The only/ Oriental Restaurant rated by Robert 
M. Bianco of the Pittsburgh Press in the TOP 
TEN BEST RESTAURANTS reviewed in 1985. 
“If you are willing to be adventurous, dinner 
here is as close as you can get locally to a New 
York Chinatown meal. ”
Celebrate The Year of the Tiger with a special 
Banquet of a traditional Chinese meal.
Make Your Reservations Now
709 Btitfssta St.
Sbêéfééê 
[mm Neck fran Wafawt St.)
Lunch • Dinner • Take-Out • Banquets • Cocktails
TheartTe
SENIORS :
Did you forget to have your senior portrait taken?
All is not lost!
We have added 3 additional days for senior portraits:
Nov. 17 — 9am-5pm 
Nov. 18 - 12pm-8pm 
Nov. 20 - 9am-5pm
Portraits will be taken in Skibo Rm. 45.
Advance sign-up across from the Skibo Info Desk 
required. Portraits taken at this time will be included
in the '87 Thistle .
Questions? Call The Thistle atx2121.
funded by Student Activities Fee

---------------------------------------------------

What is
Find Out the Facts 
Versus 
The Myths
at
THE AIDS SYMPOSIUM
November 6,1986 
Doherty Hall 2315 
7:00-8:30 pm 
Speakers 7:00-8:00 pm 
Questions & Answers 8:00-8:30 pm
CANCER CAN BE CURED
WITHEARLY DETECTION
I
II
-Onl\ takes 5 min.
-An immediate printout 
<ji\en to \ou on your 
individual cancer risks.
THE AMERICAN CANCER SOCIETY 
AND THE HEALTH AWARENESS BOARD 
PRESENTS A TOTALLY NEW CONCEPT IN 
EARLY CANCER DETECTION
ni<• mu*sHi•ISL•E IS62 I•EHmiSu- sIu7I0*F
A TECHNOLOGICALLY ADVANCED TOOL TO ALERT YOU 
TO YOUR CHANCES OF GETTING THESE CANCERS:
. AI•06i . •-Eu*•iIS0R . m•IYSm0R . sIu6i0i• . i•6iSmHR0I . RH-7 . 62S- . muRuI•mi0R
EARLY DETECTION CAN SAVE YOUR LIFE. CHECK IT OUT NOW!
DATE: NOV. 4 - 5 - 6 9:30 - 4:00 PM
NOV. 7 9:30-12:30 PM
PLACE: SKIBO / BAKER / MOREWOOD
à
HEALTH ENHANCEMENT
L

---------------------------------------------------

Associate Vice President 
for Academic Affairs 
Carnegie Mellon University 
Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania 15213-3890 
412-268-7641
October 30, 1986 
Dear Members of the Classes of 1987 and 1988:
I want to alert you to a new course opportunity being offered next semester as a pilot 
course for the upper-division menu of University Core courses.
All of you were at one time presented with the description of Carnegie Mellon as "The
Professional Choice." Many of you made that choice with the ambition of entering a recognized 
"profession" someday. What, now, do you suppose that will mean?
Remarkably, of the more than one-and-a-half million Americans who every year receive 
baccalaureate and graduate degrees, only about fifteen percent will in fact enter such 
"professions." A fairly select group. To be sure, professionals don’t become so by choice alone. 
Entering a profession is far more than choosing an occupation, getting a job, making a good 
salary; it entails rites of passage, special commitments and responsibilities as well as privileges, 
certain lifestyles, value sets, social attitudes, and the like. Nor are professions unmixed blessings 
for individuals or society; the "professional" life can dominate as well as enrich one’s personal 
life; professions create strong cultures unto themselves and exert powerful inluences on society as 
well as individuals. Professions are an undeniably salient phenomenon in our culture and on our 
campus, given the distinctly professional nature of so many of Carnegie Mellon’s programs. 
Whatever your own choice or ambitions, you are bound to be affected by this phenomenon. What 
will you make of it? What will it make of you?
Next semester you have the opportunity to enroll in a course that examines this phenomenon
— 79-313, "The Professions and Society." This course will apply the perspectives of history and
the social sciences to understand the emergence and impacts of the professions in American life
and society, employing case studies to examine the essential features, privileges, responsibilities,
pressures, influence, and possible futures of a variety* of professions in contemporary American 
life. Faculty and practicing professionals from fields like medicine, law, engineering, and 
architecture will be featured as guest lecturers and panelists throughout the course.
"The Professions and Society" will be taught by Dr. Joseph Devine, Assistant Dean of the
College of Humanities and Social Sciences, and will meet on Monday evenings from 7:00 to 9:20 
pm (with a break after the first hour). Most students can count this course to fulfill any one of 
a number of H&SS requirements that are part of their major program. For further details, please 
contact Dr. Devine by phone (x2925) or computer mail (JD0X CMCCTD).
Sincerely and Cordially,
Preston Covey ' Associate Vice President for Academic Affairs

---------------------------------------------------

Page 18—The Tartan—November 4, 1986
Sports
The Tartan
Week.
Carnegie Mellon Intramural Standings
1286 YülkybailMinors HWon Loss
Majorsl.EKN0oL.-
TeamWon Loss2. Henderson Bruisers10
1. KSA203. CIA-A01
2. Dave s Team154. Slammers II20
3. Computer Sci31
4. The Club40
5. Cuspea Yangling30L.WomenWon Loss
6. Theta Xi131. KAO00
7. GSIA602. Mech E Jrs.00
8. Spycho153. Talking Heads10
9. SAE044. KKT ^01
Minors FWon LossIntermediate AWon Loss
1. KDR2 11. SUPA Alley Cats12
2. Morewood Maniacs2 02. MEGS I40
3. Rackets Azizan0 33. The Lemmings12
4. AEP2 14. Phi Kap12
5. Doug's Team0 35. Pika12
Minors GWon LossIntermediate BWon Loss
1. DU-B1 21. SUPA Squirrels02
2. Mudge1 32. CIA40
3. MEGS D3 03. HAO02
4. STG0 34. K-911
5. IIAO3 05. Psychology11
Intermediate CWon LossIM Water Polo1. Dudes3 0
2. AFROTC2 1Majors3. ATO0 2TeamW on Loss4. Pi Slamma Jamma1 21. Phi Kap325. DU-A0 12. DU05
3. SAE51
4. DTD31
Intermediate DWon Loss5. Theta Xi24l.ECE1 1
2. Computer Sci. II3 1
3. Math Grads1 1MinorsWonLoss
4. Pike Drivers1 11. AFROTC215. Do Sa!0 22. Kappa Sigma22
3. Sigma Nu03
4. Mutant Eels30
Intermediate EWon Loss
1. ATO0 2IM Chess
2. KDR1 13. Army0 1TeamWon Loss
4. Residence Hall1. Doherty A-Tower01
Death Squad0 12. Chess Pains20
5. Pioneers Golf3 03. Ribli's10
6. Orange Dot1 24. DU01
5. Pika01
6. Physics11
7. Phi Kap00
Team Table Tennis
National LeagueWon Loss
1. Giontella20
2. The Chumps11
3. SWLTPWSOT10
4. A E PI02
5. The Topspinners01
American LeagueWon Loss
1. HK.L.Y!202. The Bosses013. Mobius104. DU01
5. CSO01
Volleyball
Continued from Page 19
tend to play to the ability of the 
opposition.”
The team is not without accomplishments 
however. Junior Captian Monica Zalevsky 
is ranked fairly highly in the PAC. She 
moved last week from 5th to' 3rd in spiking 
aces. She also is 2nd in serving aces and 5th 
in assists.
The Coach feels confident about next year 
because some of the old players may return 
and the current squad now has the experience 
they lacked earlier in the season.
The team's last match is away on Thursday 
against Grove City. Grove City is one of 
the better teams, however, Watson stated, 
"We are going to win! We have nothing to 
lose and a lot to gain."
PICKUP
A PARTY
THIS BUD'S FOR YOU!

---------------------------------------------------

November 4, 1986-—The Tartan—Page 19
Soccer Finishes With A Pair of Victories
By PERRY PIERCE
Tartan Staffwriter
The Soccer Tartans ended their 1986 season 
last week, with big wins over NCAA 
Division I schools; The University of 
Pittsburgh and Robert Morris College.
The Tartans held off the Panthers 1-0, 
while coming back to beat Robert Morris in 
overtime, 4-3. The booters finished 1986 by 
posting a respectable 10-5-1 mark, and a 
positive outlook for 1987.
Carnegie Mellon started off the week by 
playing a rough game with the Pitt Panthers 
at Tech Field, and came out on top 1-0. 
Freshman goaltender Ried Thiel had his best 
game as a Tartan, as he thwarted numerous 
sconng opportunités by Panther attackers. 
Thiel came out of his spot to punch out 
crossing passes, forcing Pitt to angle their 
shots.
Both sides had numerous opportunities, but 
the goalies and defenses of the Tartans and 
the Panthers were enough to keep the game
close.
Midway through the first half, the Panthers 
could not stop a Tartan attack led by senior 
All-PAC prospect, Doug Anderson. 
Anderson quickly dished off the ball to 
freshman Eddie Park, who stuffed it passed 
the goaltender to give Carnegie Mellon the 
only goal they would need.
Against Robert Morris College, the 
Tartans knew they were up against a team 
that could score numerous goals in a short 
amount of time.
Carnegie Mellon was very correct in 
assuming just that, as the booters found 
themselves down 3-0 at halftime. "We didn’t 
talk to them much during halftime," 
explained CMU Coach Nick Guadioso. The 
Tartans knew that "being down to a Division
I school 3-0 at the half means that the game
is just about over."
The Tartans didn’t give up, though, as they
kept constant pressure on the Robert Moms 
defense throughout the opening of the second 
half. Finally, fifteen minutes into the half, 
the Tartans were able to break out of thier 
scoring drought. Carnegie Mellon capital­
ized on a comer kick opportunity, as 
Sophomore Bob Stefanowicz headed the 
comer by Junior All-Pac candidate Kevin 
Jung for the score.
Only ten minutes later, the Tartans 
celebrated again, as Freshman Chuck 
Shuanda took a loose ball in front of the net 
and smashed home the Tartans second goal 
of the afternoon.
"After we scored the second goal, you could 
see the momentum shift," explained 
Guadiosso. "They [Robert Morris] looked 
tired throughout the second half, but it really 
began to show after the goal."
Carnegie Mellon didn't ever quit, as they 
continued an onslaught of shots on the 
Robert Morris goaltender. With the score at 
3-2, time became a major factor, as there 
was only 15 minutes left in the contest. 
The Tartans did not crack under the pressure 
though, as the freshman Park found a loose 
ball off a free kick and put it into the net for 
a 3-3 tie.
The game remained deadlocked until the 
final gun, which forced an overtime period. 
"Robert Morris looked dead going into the 
overtime. We just run them down."
The Tartans were able to capitalize on their 
advantage, as in the overtime period, Park 
scored his second goal of the game to knotch 
the win.
"Eddie scored the winning goal in all of our 
last three wins," said Guadioso, "he’s going 
to be a real asset over the years."
This is only a part of the Tartan's positive 
outlook for the future. Junior Kevin Jung 
will be back for one more season, while the 
five freshman starters will gain more 
experience. "We started and ended strong. 
The fresmen have matured, but we still have
a lot of work to do," explained Guadioso.
The Tartans leading scorer for 1986 was 
Jung, who scored 26 points, while senior 
Doug Anderson scored 25 points for the 
Tartans.
Park scored many goals in the final weeks
to finish with 13 points, while 
goaltender Ried Thiel finished with 6 
shutouts and 18 goals allowed.
That gave Thiel a goals against average of 
1.1, which is among the leaders this year in 
the President's Athleuc Conference.
FAST FREE DELIVERY _
CAU'fOR FMI DELIVERY 12 NOON TO 12 MIDNIGH
682-3333
v >
our dough mode FRESH doily - w
810 IVY STREET • SHADYSIDE
682-3333
FREE DELIVERY TO:
• Shodyside • P* Breere • OHSr'fl»«
• Sq. Hill • Oakland •
• Friendship Park •
• Bloomfield •
• Highland Park,
^FRII DELIVERY _______________
¦ COUPON" I
! Large Cheese Pizza I 
\ $ 3.99 |
Immmm JSL -________‘
(All sandwiches come with rr.elted provolone cheese and «re OVENBAKEDl
Italian Hoagie...............................................4.00
V* Hoagie................................................ . 2.00
Hot Sausage...................................................3.90
Meat Ball............................................................3.90
Cheese Hoagie............................................3.20
Steak Hoagie.:...........................................4.20
Pizza Steak Hoagie. ...........................4.20
Cold Sub......................................................... 4.00
Capicolla (Deluxe)....................................4.70
(Real Italian Capicolla with Qraen 
Peppers, Mushrooms I that Spacial Touch)
(All topped with trash lettuce, tomato, onion — unleaa specified) 
(Green Pepper* or Mushroom* — 25* Extra)
CMU Volleyball
By NEAL LEVENE 
Tartan Staffwriter 
This year s women's volleyball season ends 
on Thursday with a match against Grove 
City. The Tartan volleyball team has had its 
share of problems this year. After last year s 
success, the team expected to have a shot at 
this year’s championships. However with 
their current record of 5-17, the team will 
have to wait until next year for a chance at a 
title.
The team lost many of their starting 
players this year. Among the players
missing this year are Karen Kemetz and Sue 
Shannon who both graduated last year, 
Debbie St Pierre who was unable to play 
this season because of a course overload, 
center Marianne Smith who is spending this 
year in London, and Chris Coleman who 
took a leave of absence from CMU. The 
effect of these losses resulted in a fairly
inexperienced squad this year.
Last Tuesday the team lost a close match 
to John Carroll with a score of 0-3. The 
game scores were 12-15, 13-15, 7-15. 
Coach Jane Fisk commented that the team 
has trouble passing the bah. She stated, 
"John Carroll's blocking had improved over 
last year, and our team had trouble reading 
their movements. We had less mistakes, and 
the women played positions better."
The team lost again at home on Saturday 
to Hiram. The match ended 0-3 with the 
game scores being 2-15, 14-16, 9-15. After 
the match, middle setter Diane Watson 
commented, "The team has a lot of potential 
but we don't seem to be clicking as a team 
yet We are sick of losmg. We are putting 
everything that we can into our matches, and 
so many people have improved so much this 
year. Maybe one of our problems is that we
Continued on Page 18
vOr ^ vx\V qM . ‘ .-'>v >
cP,
>v
S' N-''“
date: Wednesday & Thursday 
November 5 & 6
time: 10am - 4pm 
place: Skibo

---------------------------------------------------

Page 20—The Tartan—November 4, 1986
Tell all Your Friends - The IM Report
Next week's edition of the Intramural report 
will have complete details of the Minors IM 
Touch Football Championship game. Along 
with game deatils, the IM Department will 
name it's ALL INTRAMURAL ALL STAR 
TOUCH FOOTBALL TEAMS.
In other news, Assistant Director of 
Intramurals, Mike Mastroianni, is still 
accepting officials into the Officials Club. 
Although the soccer rules and clinic meeting 
was held Thursday, October 30, you may 
still join the club and officiate games. 
Officials are paid for all the games that they 
do, and even if you play on an IM Soccer 
team you may still join to officiate soccer 
games.
In fact, the Officials Club encourages those 
players who enjoy the sport to join the club, 
not only as players, but as an official. You 
may join the club by contacting Mike at 
x2214 between 4:00-5:30 M-F.
’ MQI-IHAT FAR AWAY”It is not too early to sign up for officiating 
Intramural Basketball games. Although 
basketball does not begin until January, you 
may sign up now. For more details contact 
Mike at x2214 between 4:00-5:30 M-F.
IM___EQQIBALL___CHAMPIONSHIP
RESULTS 
MAJORS PIKA 39
CRUNCH BUNCH 24 
The passing combination of Roger Devries 
to Dave Bart broke a 12-12 halftime tie and 
led Pika (6-0) to it’s fifth straight Majors IM 
Championship. Devries threw five 
touchdown passes, four to Championship 
Most Valuable Player Bart. PIKA has now 
won the Majors Championship 12 out of the 
last 17 years. The Crunch Bunch was led by 
the strong performance of outstanding 
quarterback Rob Bowie.
INTERMEDIATE THE SQUAD 24 
THETA XI 18 
In a hard fought battle, The Squad (8-0) 
hung on to claim the Intermediate 
Championship 24-18. The Squad was led by 
the running and throwing of quarterback Jay 
Glaspy who accounted for two of the Squads 
four touchdowns. The Squad, who completed 
the season undefeated, also got touchdowns 
from Mike Rielly and Ron Moore. Theta-Xi 
was led by quarterback Mike Talentino and 
receiver John Waugman. Talentino to 
Waugman accounted for all three Theta-Xi 
scores.
WOMEN'S CHAMPIONSHIP
KAPPA KAPPA GAMMA 6 
PI-LAM 0
Kappa Kappa Gamma captured the 
Women’s Championship with a 6-0 victory 
over Pi-Lam. Kappa Kappa Gamma was 
once again led by the strong overall play of 
Maya Sternberg. Tracey Boyd and Ann 
Caretto paced the defense to the shut out. Pi- 
Lam was led by the play of Holly Graham, 
Maria Consenta and Dottie Setliff.
TENNIS
Major League
PHI KAPPA THETA, defeated SLAP 
AND TICKLE for the 1986 CMU 
Intramural Tennis Championship in this 
tournament.
Intermediate 
THE KILLERS defeated THE CLUELESS 
KIDS to take the 1986 Intermediate title. 
Another great job was done by 
Commissioner Rob Schlackman.
CHESS
IM CHESS is going well under the 
direction of Stuart Fox x4259.
Please play all rounds as scheduled and turn 
in scores to IM Office or Commissioner Fox.
TABLE TENNIS
Commissioner Bob Koca x8989 
Please keep commissioner Koca aware of your match results.
WATER POLO
Commissioner Hal Levine x4077 reports 
games are being played as scheduled.
Gregg Garrison is doing an excellent job as 
Life Guard during all of the Water Polo 
games.
The final match between the two league 
champions will be held Tuesday, November 11th.
BOWLING
Commissioner Vince Carrozza — x5494. 
Vince tells us that IM Bowling is rolled at 
the Strand Lanes in Oakland on Saturday 
mornings.
All teams, please see that your Bowling fees 
are paid to Dale at the Strand Lanes.
DARTS
Commissioner Paul Pecora 621-9125 has 
the schedules ready in the IM Office.
Please play your matches as scheduled and 
let Paul know who wins you match.
RACQUETBALL
Racquetball is under way with the direction 
of Commissioner Rob Schlackman x5518. 
Please report winning scores to IM Office. 
Thanks to Dan in the towel room for his 
help and expert advice pertaining to the 
scheduling of the Racquetball Courts.
SOCCER
Commissioners
1. Majors Fred Deleon x5432
2. Intermediate Stephanie Janczak x4815
3. Mike Grzywinkski x4651
4. Women — A commissioner is still 
needed.
The October Soccer Rules Clinic was held 
in Thistle Hall on Thursday, October 30th 
and the schedules were passed out to the 
teams who attended the rules clinic.
Copies of the rules and schedules can be 
picked up in the IM Office.
It is not too late to sign up your Womens 
Only Soccer Team.
Do it NOW!
Regular scheduled games will start 
Monday, November 3rd at 7 p.m.
Please play games as scheduled with no 
schedule adjustments.
SIX PERSON VOLLEYBALL
Commissioner Dee Nyzio x4608 
All scheduled games should be played by 
November 11th.
SPORTS DUE SOON!
Three Person Volleyball 
Commissioners:
Major League — We need a commissioner. 
Minor League — Stuart Fox x4259 
Final Entry date — Thursday, November 
6th at 4:30 p.m.
Sign your team up today!
Backgammon 
Entry due Thursday, November 6th at 4:30 
p.m. We need a commissioner for 
Backgammon.
ATTENTION
NEXT IM BOARD MEETING — 
THURSDAY, NOVEMBER 6TH 4:30 
P.M. IN THE GYM CONFERENCE 
ROOM. ALL BOARD MEMBERS 
PLEASE PLAN TO ATTEND THIS 
MEETING.
V *%\
KNOCK
OURSOCKSOFF 
AND WIN $3000.
The 1987 Honeywell Futurist Awards Competition.
Here’s your chance to stop us in our tracks: Power-up your imagination and make a 25-year leap into 
the future. Turn your visions into two short essays, and you could win one of ten $3000 prizes plus a 
Honeywell summer internship. If you’re a full-time student at an accredited U.S. college or university, 
call toll-free 800-328-5111 (ext. 1581) for an entry form and complete rules. Or write: Honeywell 
Futurist Awards Competition, MN12-4164 Honeywell Plaza, Minneapolis, MN 55408.
We’ll even send you a pair of future socks for practice. But don’t drag your feet— 
you must request your entry form before December 31,1986; and mail 
your entry by January 31,1987
Together, we can find the answers.
Honeywell

---------------------------------------------------

Call 800-257-1200; Ext. 1066
or mail the coupon - and start your 
subscription to The W&ll Street 
Journal at student savings of up 
to $48 off the regular subscrip­
tion price.
That’s a pretty generous offer. 
Especially when you consider 
what it actually represents. 
Tuition for the real world.
subscribe, call 800-257-120071 
Ext. 1066 toll-free.
Or mail to: The Wall Street Journal, 500 3rd Ave. W„ Seattle. 
WA 98119
? Send me one year of The Wall Street Journal for $66 - a saving of $48 off the regular subscription price.? Send me 15 weeks for $26. ? Payment enclosed.
? Bill me later.
Name
Stnrlent IT).#Grad Month/Year
AHHrpss .....
CityState Zip
SchoolMajor ...................I
 These prices are valid for a limited time for studnts amh in the continental U.S. By placing your order, ytrn authorize The Wall Street Journal to w*nfy the enrollment information supplied above.
I TheWM Street Journal.
|74Snt doth diary of the American dtmm. 2664
*ln Pennsylvania, call 800-222-3380, Ext. 1066.
®I986 Dow Jones & Company Inc
This is proving to be the best defensive weapon n the fight for human rights
Pick up your pen. And write a letter. When written to the 
right person, it can have devastating impact. Your letter can help 
someone who's been jailed for their religion, political beliefs, 
language, color, sex or ethnic background.
Amnesty International has used the power of words since rh 
1961, to help more than 25,000 men, women and children gain 
their freedom, their respect and their lawful rights.
In today's war of words, the most powerful thoughts are 
usually the most personal. Make an impact. Pick up your pen today.
And write. It could be the most powerful letter you've ever written.Write a letter, save a life.
Amnesty International
THE PITTSBURGH 
SYMPHONY
TIRED OF CULTURE?
Tired of trying to be in 
+he right place at the 
right time doing the 
right thing?
Then Joe Bob’s 
your man —
V.
Drive-in Movie 
Critic
Watch for Joe Bob, the 
reactionary redneck 
renegade whose drive-in 
movie reviews and 
cultural criticism begin in 
this newspaper on
Joe Bob —
sure to offend some of the people some 
of the time.
C> Uft«v*r»ei Syna*c«t«J
After you’re done with 
school, you face one of 
the hardest lessons in life
Without experience, 
it’s tough to get a job. And 
without a job, it’s tough to 
get experience.
At The W&ll Street 
Journal, we recognize that expe­
rience is something you don’t 
start earning until after graduation.
But while you’re waiting, we can 
give you a head start by providing 
some of the same competitive 
advantages that experience brings.
For instance, our wide-ranging 
news coverage gives you a clearer 
understanding of the whole complex 
world of business.
Our tightiy focused feature re­
porting prepares you for your more 
specific ambitions—whether in 
management, accounting, finance, 
technology, marketing or small 
business.
And our in-depth analysis helps 
you formulate your ideas in a 
sharper and more persuasive way.
m

---------------------------------------------------

SPRING SEMESTER ADVANCE REGISTRATION
Advance Registration for the Spring 1987 Semester wil be on Wednesday and Thursday, November 12 and 13, 
1986. All students, undergraduate and graduate, are expected to register on these days if they wish to enroll at 
CMU this spring , except for CIT/MCS freshmen, who have received separate instructions. If you won't be 
returning for reasons other than graduation, please file a Withdrawal From, clearly marked "Spring 1987" with 
your department. If you are unable to register November 12 or 13 (i.e. you're studying off campus), ask your 
advisor to process your registration, or call the Registrar's Office for special instructions.
The Schedule of Classes Spring Semester 1987 is available at the Skibo Information Desk and inside Baker 
Hall's main entrance. The schedule contains next semester's course offerings, instructors, times, and rooms, as 
well as complete registration and enrollment information. Please obtain a copy, and carefully read and follow its
instructions.
A single resistration form, the Registration and Demographic Data Document (R3D), will be used for registration. 
Your R3D is available in your department office and should be used to update demographioc information and to 
list your Spring Semester schedule for advisor approval. (Forms for H&SS freshmen and sophomores will be 
available in the H&SS Advisory Center at Baker Hall; CIT and MCS freshmen will receive separate instructions 
from Dean Kail and will not register at this time.)
***** Advance Registration Instructions *****
1. Pick up your R3D from your department and update/correct the demographic information.
2. Pick up a Schedule of Classes Spring Semester 1987 at the Skibo Information Desk or inside Baker Hall's 
main entrance.
3. Plan a schedule with alternatives, and meet with your advisor to have the schedule approved. You cannot 
register until you have received advisor approval. Many advisors will extend office hours next week, but 
contact yours for specific approval information.
4. On Wednesday and Thursday, November 12 and 13, between 9:30am and 4:30pm, go to each department 
teaching a course(s) you wish to register for to obtain registration approval.
5. After obtaining all approvals, return the R3D to your department by December 10. Even if you don't get all 
approvals, turn your R3D in anyway; you can try to add an unapproved course in January.
If you need further information or assistance, contact your department or the Registrar's Office, 268-2004.
NOVEMBER 12 and 13
ihed light on
he matter
Improve Your 
Income Potential &
Career Opportunities. Get an MBA.
I
f you are about to graduate from college or have already, you can greatly increase your employability and income potential by 
obtaining an MBA from Ohio State. Our full-time two-year MBA 
program is designed to provide professional management education. It is one of the top 25 programs in the country and has many unique features, including:
• no prerequisite course work• open to students with nonbusiness backgrounds
• specializations in just one or two management fields through elec­tive course work
• an integrated curriculum that will give you a solid foundation in 
management tools and concepts• a high level of student and faculty-student interaction
• a curriculum accredited by the American Assembly of Collegiate Schools of Business.
We offer a full range of career-counseling and placement services. Recent graduates have found positions with recognized lead­
ers—these include: ,
Strategic product planner, Pontiac Motors 
Marketing research analyst, General Mills, Inc.Management consultant, Arthur Andersen & Co.
Financial analyst, Hewlett-Packard Company Commercial lender, National Bank of Detroit 
Management systems analyst, Procter & Gamble Assistant product manager, Oscar Mayer Foods Corporation 
Distribution analyst, Clorox Company Export control analyst, IBV
Find out more—call or wr
Director, MBA Programs 
The Ohio State University 112 Hagerty Hall 
1775 College Road 
Columbus, OH 43210-1399 (614) 292-8511
CorpofSiion
te for our free brochure.
The Ohio State University

---------------------------------------------------

Page 23—The Tartan—November 4, 1986
hard as I could and then tried to kick, but I 
was definitely out of the race."
Coach Meckley had been nervous before 
the race because of the team’s problems with 
illness. "I had to make a decision whether to 
run a few guys who'd been sick with a little 
more talent, or some guys who weren't sick 
but didn't have the talent, I took a chance and 
in one case it worked out, and in the other it 
didn't. All in all, they competed well and I 
was happy. "
The competition at Grove City is not at 
the level of the NCAA Eastern Regionals
two weeks away in Allentown and that 
looms on Meckley's mind. "I think they can 
run better, I don't think that's our strongest 
team. We couldn’t have qualified for 
Nationals today. Healthy, I think we should 
have taken 1,2,3,5, and 6 - something like 
that. If we do that, we should qualify for 
Nationals, but that remains to be seen on 
that given day if someeone gets sick, or 
something else goes through the 
team...Supp could be in the top ten in the 
region, and we've got four guys potentially 
who can run with him. If they do, we could
qualify for Nationals, and if we qualify, I 
have a feeling we could be in the top 
fifteen."
The runners themselves are more upbeat 
than their coach. According to Noll, 
"Regionals are what we've been shooting for 
all year. If you set your goal for a certain 
race, you usually do your best at it." Added 
Stopen, "If the team performs really well, 
we could win, of course we could stay home 
too. The two freshman were more succinct. 
Said O'Neal, "We re ready," and Supp added, 
"Were there." They'll see in two weeks.
Women Runners Victorious
Men's Results
Another Championship for Men’s X-Country Team
Continued from Page 24
behind him and Sherrin and CMU’s Paul 
famine (seventh place) and Keith Stopen 
(eighth place) several steps off the pace.
As the race continued, Camine and Stopen 
fell back behind O'Neal and Grove City's 
Bob Bingham and Mark Guiler, last year's 
Conference Champion, while Supp moved 
to a commanding lead over Noll and Sherrin.
Going into the final stretch, the leaders 
remained the same until with 400 yards to 
a0< Sherrin passed Noll, but as they headed 
towards the finish line, Noll kicked in to 
come from behind and finish second. Other 
Tartan finishers were freshman Tim Berger 
who placed tenth and sophomore Tom Ford 
who came in fifteenth.
Supp felt very confident after the race. "I 
don't think I've peaked yet. I think I've got 
better races to come. Taking the week off 
last week really helped, I just hit it perfect."
Noll, who has been battling sickness over 
the past few weeks, also was happy. "I'm 
back, I'm feeling just about perfect. I was 
hoping to be up there with Dave, but right 
in the middle of the race he just surged. It 
was the first time I'd beat someone in the 
last fifty yards, though. It was a big 
confidence boost, I just gave it my best shot 
in the last fifty yards and got him." O'Neal 
was both pleased and surprised with his fifth 
place finish. "I thought I was sixth or 
seventh, I had no idea. I didn't want to go 
out too fast, I just kept on reeling ’em in 
one at a time."
Not all of the Tartans felt as good about 
the race. Camine, who finshed fifth at last 
year's championship, had been leading the 
team with Supp over the past few weeks and 
could be suffering from fatigue.
Stopen, last year's seventh place, has been 
sick off and on the entire season. Said 
Stopen, "I felt terrible. ~ No way I'm 100 
percent. I ran on guts today, no way in hell 
1 felt good. I went as long as I could and as
Continued from Page 24
would’ve gone off with the other runners, 
she made me realize I was gonna run to 
fast." At the three-quarter mile mark, Pane 
and Johnson made their move. Johnson 
described it as a perfect pass. "Me and 
Theresa passed the two top runners and we 
just went on."
As they headed for the two mile mark; 
however, Johnson started to take lead herself, 
with Pane about ten seconds behind, and 
Crannell another twenty seconds behind 
Pane. "I just kept looking behind and she 
(Pane) was twenty-five yards behind and the 
others in the race were twenty-five yards 
behind her. By the end of the race, Johnson 
had increased the lead to almost thirty 
seconds.
After Pane crossed the finish line, Crannell 
had to fight off a late move by Hiram's 
Melissa Green to finish third. The other 
Lady Tartans to finish were Molly Moritz in 
ninth place, Doris Kwong in eleventh, 
Maureen Stempkowski in fourteenth, and 
Diane Ceonzo in twenty-seventh.
This is the second season running for the 
Lady Tartans, and their second undefeated 
season ending with a PAC title. To some of
the upperclasssmen, like junior Molly 
Moritz, the second time around was a little 
harder. "I felt more pressure this year, I was 
definitely more nervous." The competition 
has also increased. Last year, only three 
schools had full teams. This year, there 
were four.
The main competition was to be Grove 
City; however, they suffered a crucial blow 
when their top runner, Cindy Langwig quit 
the team because of academic pressures. The 
absence of Langwig hurt the Lady 
Wolverines, but could not have affected the 
outcome.
In their second year together, the goals of 
the Lady Tartans have also changed. Head 
Coach Maxwell thinks it is time to look 
beyond the PAC. "My belief is that the 
PAC is a relatively weak conference, it may 
be a growing conference, but it's weak. Our 
goal should be set higher. This year our 
goal is to do really well in Regionals. I 
don't want to take anything away from the 
victory, but the season isn't over yet."
One week from Saturday, the Lady Tartans 
will see how well they can accomplish their 
goal when they compete at the NCAA 
Eastern Regionals in Allentown.
1Dave SuppCMU26:37
2Pat NollCMU26:55
3Mark SherrinHiram26:584Bob BinghamGCU27:08
5Len O'NealCMU27:21
6Mark GuilerGCU27:317Paul CamineCMU27:33
8Keith StopenCMU27:37
9Vem AndersonGCU27:42
10Tim BergerCMU27:47
15Tom FordCMU28:35
Women's Results
1Sue JohnsonCMU21:48
2Theresa PaneCMU22:13
3Francesca CrannellCMU22:50
4Melissa GreenHiram22:54
5Jillian HalterGCU23:04
6Peggy ZuscikJCU23:41
7Lynne FurryHiram23:58
8Patty BrainGCU24:14
9Molly MoritzCMU24:28
10Carol LexGCU24:37Student Senate
The Link
Do you want to be the
TREASURER 
of Student Senate?
Elections will be held on Tuesday, December 2, 1986 at 7:00pm in the 
Wherrett Room.
Pick up your petition at Skibo Information Desk and return it to Peter 
Cohen (Chariman's Box c/o Skibo Information Desk) with 25 signatures on 
it by November 26, 1986.
For more information call x2115 or stop by the Senate office - Skibo 59.
—Funded by Student Activities Fee

---------------------------------------------------

Tartan Sports
Presidents' Veto Tartans 41-8
Cross Country Teams 
Take Another PAC
By STEWART LEVINE
Tartan Staffwriter 
Carnegie Mellon won its first PAC men's 
cross-country championship in 1978. At 
that time, Dave Supp and Len O’Neal were 
in fifth grade, while Pat Noll was in sixth 
grade. Friday at Grove City, the Tartans 
won their eighth consecutive championship, 
the ninth in the last ten years, and were led 
by the freshman Supp who won Meet 
honors for winning the five mile race in 
26:37 minutes. Noll and O'Neal also 
received All-Conference honors by placing 
second and fifth at 26:55 and 27:21 
respectively. Additionally, Head Coach Gary 
Meckley was named Coach of the Year.
The race was clearly Supp's from the 
beginning. At the start, he pulled out to a 
short lead with third place finisher Mark 
Shemn of Hiram. By the end of the second 
mile, Supp had pulled ahead with Noll 
Continued on Page 23
Women
By STEWART LEVINE
Tartan Staffwriter
The motto for the women’s cross-country 
team has been "Just Do It," and Friday at 
Grove City they "did do it" by winning their 
second consecutive PAC cross-country 
championship. The Lady Tartans were led 
by freshman Sue Johnson who won the three 
mile race with a time of 21:48 minutes. 
She was followed by fellow freshman 
Theresa Pane who placed second in 22:13 
and sophomore Francesca Crannell, last 
year's fourth place finisher, who crossed the 
line third in 22:50. Head Coach Mindy 
Maxwell did not run, but she was a winner 
too, receiving Coach of the Year honors.
The race over the campus of Grove City 
College started out quickly with many of the 
Grove City runners pulling ahead to avoid 
being caught in the pack. Said Crannell, 
"Because of Theresa, we ran so slow. I
Continued on Page 23
The Scoreboard
Football 
W&J 41
Carnegie Mellon 8
Soccer
Carnegie Mellon 1 
Pitt 0
Carnegie Mellon 4 
Robert Morris 3
Women's Volleyball 
John Carroll 3 
Carnegie Mellon 0 
Hiram 3 
Carnegie Mellon 0
Men's Cross Country 
Carnegie Mellon 23 
Grove City 43 
Hiram 81 
Bethany 99 
John Carroll 148
Women's Cross Country 
Carnegie Mellon 26 
Grove City 56 
Hiram 67
John Carroll 100
By JOHN FRIEDMANN
Tartan Sports Editor
The Washington and Jefferson Presidents 
crushed the Tartan football team 41-8 
Saturday, in a game that Tartan head coach 
called an "old-fashioned butt-kicking." The 
contest was Carnegie Mellon's worst defeat 
since they were trounced 42-7 by Divison 1- 
AA Bucknell in 1984.
The loss to W&J eliminated Carnegie 
Mellon hopes for a second consecutive PAC 
championship, while lifting the Presidents 
to a probable NCAA playoff berth.
Tartan head coach Rich Lackner expressed 
fustration and disappointment after the game. 
"I'm disappointed in the program...We got 
beat in every aspect of the football game 
today and that was why the score was what it 
was."
The Presidents' thorougly overpowered the 
Tartans. The Carnegie Mellon offensive line 
was driven off the ball by a W&J defensive 
front averaging over 220 pounds.
This effectively shut down the CMU 
running game, the bread and butter of the 
Tartan atttack. Hafbacks Tim Denmeade and 
Mike Minjock and fullback Chris Hansen, 
who had rushed for a culmulative 821 yards 
in the Tartans' seven previous games, were 
held to a combined total of 13 yards. The 
demise of the run forced Carnegie Mellon to 
rely on the air attack, a dangerous strategy 
with two inexperienced quarterbacks.
Signal caller Chris Claflin, who earned the 
starting nod after reviving the Tartan offense 
versus Grove City, and Dean Garofola, who 
replaced him at halftime, had minimal time 
to throw as thier protection caved in under 
the W&J onslought
In contrast, the Presidents’ Rich Riotto 
completed 20 of 31 passes for 221 yards, and 
surpassed 3000 career yards.
Interestingly, W&J running back and all- 
american canidate AJ. Pagano accounted for 
just 65 ground yards and caught only one 
pass. But the President's leading rasher did 
gain several key first downs in W&J scoring 
drives.
A key President drive was their first of the 
game. Washington and Jefferson recovered a 
Chris Claflin fumble on the Tartan 33, but 
did nothing with it for three downs as Rich 
Riotto threw a trio of unspectacular 
incomplete passes.
But a personal foul against the Tartans after 
the third pass gave W&J new life, and 
moved them to the Carnegie Mellon 18 yard 
line.
Riotto followed up runs by fullback Rick 
France and Pagano with a ten yard pass to 
split end Jim Greaves for the touchdown. 
This first score seemed to demoralize the 
Tartans, and may have marked a psycological turning point.
At the end of the first half, Washington and 
Jefferson led 20-0. The Tartans had been 
down 21-0 versus Case Western Reserve 
and had almost come back to win the game, 
and many CMU rooters were hoping for the 
same versus W&J.
The Carnegie Mellon defense held the 
Presidents out of the end zone on their first 
posession of the second half, and the Tartns 
gained control of the football at their own 12 
yard line.
Garofola's pass to tight end Mike Behling 
got CMU a first down at the 27, but three 
consecutive incomplete passes forced the 
Tartans to punt. The Presidents then scored 
on their next two poessions to make the 
score 34-0 and put the game out of reach for. 
Carnegie Mellon.
A PAC record was set in the game, the 
mark for the longest punt The President's 
Ted Bell booted a punt from deep in his own 
territory that took several W&J bounces on 
Tartan return man Jeff Caringola and was 
eventuallly downed on the CMU two yard 
line, an 80 yard kick overall.
Interestingly, Bell's record punt set up the 
only Carnegie Mellon touchdown, with 
under eight minutes remaining in the 
contest.
A W&J offsides penalty helped move the 
Tartans five yards further away from the 
wall, and runs by freshman halfback Chris 
Trumble and Garofola gave Carnegie Mellon 
a first down at their 15 yard line.
At that point, Carnegie Mellon went strictly to the air. Garofola aimed two quick 
throws toward Bob, Patterson, Mike 
Minjock's backup at right halfback, who 
caught both for another first down.
The Tartans came out to their 49 on a pair 
of cataches for 11 and 12 yards by freshman 
Eric Polkis, the Carnegie Mellon second-line 
fullback.
Garofola brought the Tartans all the way to 
the Washington and Jefferson 21 yard line,
Photo by Andy Gillespie
Frankin and Marshall 22-0.
For head coach Rick Lackner, the defeat has 
implications for next season, his second as 
head coach. "It means that I'm going to go 
out and recruit some good people. And it 
means those people who are going to back 
with us last year are going to be in the weight room working."
Notes- The consecutive losses to Grove 
City College and Washington and Jefferson 
marks the first time since 1984 that the 
Tartans have lost two games in a 
row...Linebacker Dan Lankitus, hurt since 
the opening games of the season, saw action 
versus the Presidents...In total Carnegie 
Mellon amassed only 24 yards on the 
ground.
Dejected Tartans ponder the defeat.
with the help of another pair of passes to 
Patterson (who led the team in receptions 
Saturday) and a defensive holding penalty on 
the Presidents. But he was then nailed for a 
10 yard loss setting up a second down and 20 
situation.
But a pretty reception by Mike Beresford crossing uirough the middle gave tne tartans 
their longest game of the day, and almost 
put CMU on the scoreboard. Even though 
Beresford was forced out of bounds two yards 
from the end zone, fellow Penn-Trafford 
graduate Marty Stovar caught the next toss 
for six points.
The Carnegie Mellon touchdown averted 
what looked like the Tartans' first shutout 
since 1972, when the team was blanked by
