m ri m 1 m-t 111ri 11 riTTmi
«
ri1-tT£AV oAAl-u By 
eNiVAbNT 4M J£A I^_bA|tA JA&£bt&^- e&£ff-T¡
&Science 
£
Trade
AI ¡ILL'hll
Volume 111 
Number 4
MTlTiTJI i III 1 I
£ ^ _1| 9 &Applied] Designftir ^ ¡I
HERMAN T. AUDE
Smelisi School
OCTOBER 14, 1908
1
Two Dollars the Year 
Ten Cents the Copy

---------------------------------------------------

OV2XOV}\0V}\v*O\O\OVOV}\OV>\O%O\O\O%* o* sI Hotel Schenley f
PITTSBURG, PA.
y0 *0 *p
& tFALanAtF»?«?
?0 /0 *0 « o
dW nIN
CLASS DINNERS
James
A 
* 0 * » *
TERILFUtN L
g
TeR r0 * O 
8 
g * 0 * « * o * 0 « « 91 0 /Riley, Prop. g
o * « *
DANCES
\0V0\0\O\O\O\O\OV>\O\0\0VOV0\0\O\ONO
*4-4***4-4»4**4*4*
?4**4*4*4*?4«?
4*4*4*
4*4*4»4*4*4*4-4-4-4-4-4*'t4-4-4-4*4*4*4-4*
In the game with 
3,000 Students
Mr. Merchant, there are over three 
thousand students at Carnegie Tech 
who are spending money every day. 
Do they know who you are and what 
you have to sell? Are you talking 
with them through the advertising 
columns of The Tartan? Better make 
arrangements for space if you want 
your share of Tech money. If you 
want to “get in the game,” write to
Advertising Manager “The Tartan
Carnegie Technical Schools
t4*4*4*4«4*4-4-4-4-&4»4*4*4*4*4-4*f4*4*4*4*4*4«4-4-
*tt 4* 4- 
% M 4* 4* 4- 4- 4*i 4*
I4-
«g«8Adgvgvg«gAdgAdg«g«vertdg«giesvenvesg«g«g0\0\O\0\0\0V>\OV0\OV>\0\0%O\OVO\0\0*HEIMERTSIS WHERE THE MEN GO
FALL and WINTER Underwear in different weights to suit the wearer
Union Suits $1.00, $1.50, $2.00, $2.50 for all shape men, tall and slender short and stout
2 Piece Garments, 50c to $3.00 a garment &
I I 
8
g1*0
$II*»
i
OAKLAND AGENCY FOR THE GENUINE 
ADVERTISED HOLE PROOF SOCKS
IROQUOIS 
OAKLAND HATTER AND HABERDASHER
Open evenings until 9 o’clock Saturday 
evening until 11 o’clock.
\0*0*0*0%0*0%0*0*0*0X0X0X0X0X0%0X0%O
*0*
$o»0 * 0 X 
§ 0 
8
'É/0*0*0*0*0*
80*t0
$
s
0*110
0 
I ¦*0i
0 /
0 * 0 I I * 0 * 0 I I * 0 / 0 I * 0 * 0 X 0
Î%0*0%O*0%0*0*O*0%0*0\0*OH0%0*0*0%0*0
SOCIAL EDUCATION:
For the young man or woman 
entering Society good dancing is 
indispensable.
The grace and elegance of the 
finished dancer with correct ball­
room manners, deportment and so­
cial etiquette, can be learnt only 
at a high class school where taught 
and practiced.
McDougall’s new $50,000 school, 
at 4614-16 Forbes—4 doors East of 
Craig — is the only institution 
in Pittsburgh where these accom­
plishments receive particular at­
tention.
.MçDou^ali^

---------------------------------------------------

TEN CENTSVOL. Ill, No. 4die ® art a n
PITTSBURG, PA., WEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 14, 1908
THE GROVE CITY GAME
Carnegie Tech made a brilliant finish of Satur­
day’s game with Grove City and turned what looked 
to be another of those inexcusable defeats into vic­
tory.
In the first half Tech seemed to get off badly 
while Grove City played a fast game all the time and 
outplayed our team at every point. After the fum­
ble that gave Grove City the ball in her own terri­
tory the Tech team seemed to have an attack of 
stage fright and was unable to stop their opponents 
on either line plunges or end runs. When down 
near the goal line Tech finally took a brace and 
would have prevented Grove City from scoring at all 
if they had not had a good kicker.
Tech was at a disadvantage by having Dowling 
out of the game. Schmucker, who played Dowling's 
place, did as well as could be expected, but the cap­
tain’s absence was manifested. Then to add to the 
misfortune Billy Hittner was rapped hard on his 
head a couple of times in the first half and he did 
not do his work in his usual style. But Hittner got 
a rest and a chance to get his head clear between 
halves, and in the second period he played a better 
game, and when he got started Tech began to pull 
up.
At times the game was sloppy, both teams doing 
costly fumbling and offside and holding. The for­
ward pass and onside kicks of Tech did not work 
right, although the onside kick paved the way for the
only touchdown'. In line bucking Grove City was 
the superior as its men were stronger players. Early 
in the first half Tech got to the Grove City 25-yard 
line, where Hittner tried an onside kick, which 
Marks got on his own 10-yard mark. La;er on Tech 
again got to the 10-yard mark, where Schmucker 
fumbled and again Marks got the ball. Shearer then 
made his long punt. The ball stayed around the 
Tech goal line, as the punts were very poor and 
could not be sent out of danger. With the ball on 
the 30-yard line Shearer kicked a field goal from 
placement, but it was declared no goal on account 
of holding. Again Tech failed to get the ball past 
midfield and Shearer had another opportunity to try 
for field goal. He again sent it through the bars 
and four points were credited to Grove City’s side.
In the second half the ball exchanged hands often 
in the Tech part of the field. Finally on a forward 
pass Hittner and Beeken had the ball in midfield, and 
Hittner followed with an onside kick. The ball came 
down on the 25-yard line, and took a bound over 
Mark’s head. Before a Grove City man could get his 
hands on it Frampton got it on a bound, ran over for 
a touchdown. With 40 seconds to play Grove City 
had the ball in midfield, but the backfiel 1 men took 
up the remaining time in deciding what play to call.
When the coaches made line substitutions in the 
second half and Halferty on end, the team braced 
and started to win. The Grove City men could not

---------------------------------------------------

4THE T ARTAN
box Halfe.rty and he followed the ball well, helping 
out in the onside pass and onside kick that resulted 
in the touchdown. Tne line-up:
Tech—6. Grove City—4.
Patterson, Halforty..........L. E............................. O'Donnell
Ramp .....................................L. T....................................... Lace
Marshall .............................L.B........................ McWilliams
Wagner.................................C.......................................... Lamb
J. Crawford, Gaston... .R.G.................................. Archer
T. Crawford, Hersel... .R. T................................. McAnish
Beeken .................................R. E........................ McCullough
Hittner...................................Q. B....................... Logue, Achre
Brown ................................;L. H.................................... Marks
F. Schmucker....................R.H................. Heckert, Shain
Frampton ............................F. B................................. Shearer
Touchdown — Frampton. Goal — Brown. Field 
Goal—Shearer. Umpire—Dr. Simpson. Referee—
Prof. Butler. Time of halves—20 minutes.
M. M. C. S.
A False Alarm.
Friday evening, October 2d, the schools were open 
for the inspection of the Sesqui-centennial visitors. 
We girls had been asked to come and show the 
guests through the building. Most of us came early 
in freshly starched uniforms and our very best 
smiles. This is about what happened: Firstly, a 
rumor was circulated that there were already four 
hundred visitors in the boys’ schools. The girls 
rushed to the windows overlooking the street to 
watch for the approach of this vast multitude. Ex­
pectant silence for the space of ten minutes, then, 
“Oh! girls, there comes an automobile—that must 
be Miss Pitt-Taylor!” Aprons were hurriedly 
smoothed and caps adjusted—silence—a sigh, “Aw! 
it’s gone past!” (Half hour later.) “There come 
three women down the street—yes, and a man, too!” 
Another wait. Nothin’ doin’. Und so weiter. Fin­
ally Miss Stoner appeared and consented to pose 
as Miss Pitt-Taylor that we might have the satis­
faction of doing the honors of our “House.” A few 
members of the Faculty, some of the night students, 
and a few others were all the guests who put in an 
appearance. Question: What became of the “four 
hundred”? And where, oh, where, were the “dis­
tinguished visitors”?
Mrs. Capt. Breek (our old friend and teacher, 
Miss Stutz), visited the school last Tuesday after­
noon, having strayed into the city from her “chicken 
farm” in Sewickley. She says she can recommend 
matrimony to any one who can cook! Advice to 
the Plebes: Take the Household Arts course.
Miss Isabel Powelson (Senior Sec.) has returned 
to school after a long illness. We are glad to have 
her with us again.
By the way, what has become of the Glee and 
Dramatic Clubs? It’s time to get busy, girls.
Miss Grace Griffin spent the summer traveling 
in Europe. Her friends were filled with vague fore­
bodings when thty heard of her intention. But 
Grace has returned to us unspoiled, and so far we 
have heard of no “titled following.”
Prepare yourselves for the worst—there will soon 
be a flood of fall poetry (?) turned loose on the 
market. Miss Fisher has set her classes to writing 
poems, and we understand they are intended for 
publication.
Friday morning word was received that the Misses 
Pitt-Taylor would again (?) visit the school. More 
fluttering and sputtering—especially in the “House,” 
in the kitchens and in the cafe. Again, nothin’ 
doin’! General satisfaction.
The House.
So few people know of the work we are doing in 
the Women’s School that a few short sketches of the 
work in the various departments seem to be in order. 
As interest centers chiefly in the attractively fur­
nished apartment on the fourth floor, the work done 
there will be explained first.
The aim of this department is to train the girls 
to administer th-3 affairs of a home with economy, 
system, and intelligence, and to give them experi­
ence both in directing and performing the different 
kinds of household work. The housekeeping is 
entirely practical, each girl serving for a week in 
turn as hostess, maid, and cook. Perhaps a review 
of the work done this week will serve to explain 
more directly.
On Monday morning the “House” was opened with 
Miss Woodside as hostess, Miss Beymer as parlor 
maid, and Miss Merrill as cook. The hostess must 
plan the work of maid and cook and oversee the 
work of each: she must work out the week’s menues 
according to dietctic and economic rules; she must 
do the marketing and ordering of supplies; and as­
sist with the lighter part of the housework. The 
parlormaid keeps the house clean and in order, hav­
ing regular times for sweeping, cleaning, etc. She 
also serves at table. The duty of the cook is to 
prepare and cook all the meals served in the House.
The Ethics class met in the drawing room on Mon­
day for a discussion of the early years of childhood. 
On Wednesday, a breakfast was served, with Miss 
Smith and Miss West as guests. Thursday, the hos­
tess entertained Mrs. Philput and Miss Nickerson 
at luncheon. Friday was spent balancing accounts 
and putting the house in order for the incoming 
class. This week a new division will enter the 
House, each student to serve for a week in each 
position so that she may gain the practical experi­
ence necessary to an efficient worker.

---------------------------------------------------

THE TARTAN5
The girls at Morrison Hall are studying French 
with Miss Smith. So far the lessons have been 
more amusing than instructive.
The Woman's Song, as revised by Miss West, has 
been adopted by all the classes. Every girl should 
memorize it at o;ice, so as to have it ready for all 
school gatherings. The new revision is as follows:
1. This is the aim that makes us one 
Inspiring us in life’s bright morn,
Nobly to do whate’er is done
And thus a place in life adorn.
Refrain.
A noble life, a useful one,
That shall have much of service done,
To make mankind more glad and free
May this our purpose always be.
2. To make the home a place of rest 
Where peac6 and happiness abound,
And where the heart is ever blest 
And all love’s sweetest joys are found.
3. Where there is sorrow, there to find 
Our greatest joy in doing good,
By trying to uplift mankind 
We shall exalt true womanhood.
4. iSo let us liV3 that we may see 
Our striving end in victory won;
Then we may hope that life will be 
Crowned by the good that we have done.
A True Story.
One bright sunny afternoon two M. M. C. S. maid­
ens went forth to the tennis court for a bit of much 
needed recreation after a strenuous day’s work in 
the café. At first, things were rather dull, but as 
interest awaked the game grew hot and exciting. 
By and by the court became too small to hold us 
and the paint experiment fence on the other side 
of the hollow seemed in some danger of being de­
molished.
During the game we had occasionally noticed a 
white apron and a Vandyke beard at the Lab win­
dow, but felt no discouragement. By his own con­
fession that tennis game was the one bit of amuse­
ment he had had in three weeks, so one might 
expect a spirit ot gratitude in one so habitually 
courteous as Prof. Esquerre. However, the only 
word of praise offered was this, to the winner of the 
set: “If you are as accurate in your analytical work 
as you ace in tennis, and as persistent in looking for 
metals as you are in searching for lost balls, you 
will do well.” And to the unfortunate one, “What I 
have to say about you, I don’t say—I whistle it!” 
Now, after all that, he has the temerity to advise us 
to write a book on “Tennis: How Not to Play It.” 
We have about decided to try it some day, with an
appendix entitled “The Spectators’ Manual of Eth­
ics”—Text, Dek. 1:23. “No hammers fell, no pon­
derous axes rung.”
The Unfortunate.
CHANGES IN FOOT-BALL RULES.
There have been a number of changes in foot-ball 
rules this year and quite a few seem to be in doubt 
as to what they are. The following are the principal 
changes.
The halves have been lengthened to 35 minutes, as 
they were a few years back, and the interval between 
halves is now 15 minutes, the referee to notify the 
teams three minutes before time to begin play.
If either side has failed to appear five minutes af­
ter the notification, the offended side is to put the 
ball in play on the 30-yard line of the offending side.
The penalties fo'- fouls, except penalties under the 
forward pass, may be declined by the offended side. 
This, however, in cases where the penalty includes 
disqualification does not prevent the player from 
being put out of the game.
The penalty for batting the ball forward is the 
loss of the ball to the offended side, the ruling being 
placed under the jurisdiction of the umpire and field 
judge. The field judge is also made time-keeper.
The score of a forfeited game is made 1—0, in or­
der to distinguish it from any other possible score.
The rule regulating the forward pass is altered as 
follows: When the forward pass is legally touched, 
only the man of the passer’s side who thus first le­
gally touched it shall be entitled to recover the ball 
until it has been touched by an opponent. Also if a 
forward pass is thus legally touched, fumbled and 
touched by another player of the passer’s side before 
the ball has touched an opponent, the ball shall go to 
the opponents on the side where it was first legally 
touched. While the ball is in the air for a forward 
pass, players of the defensive side may not use their 
hands or arms on opponents, except to push them 
out of the way in order to get the ball themselves. 
Players of the side making the pass, who are eligible 
to receive the pass, may use the hands and arms, as 
in the case of players going down the field under a 
kick. Neither side may, however, “hold” or “tackle” 
an opponent who has not the ball. Finally, in case 
a forward pass is illegally touched outside of these 
provisions named above, the penalty shall be that 
the ball will go to the opponents at the spot from 
which the pass was made. Time is to be taken out 
during the enforcement of the penalty for an incom­
pleted forward pass.
If a ball or a forward pass or a kicked ball, except 
try at goal strikes the uprights or crossbar, the ball 
shall be considered as having crossed the goal line.
In case of the ball accidentally striking an official, 
the play shall be played over again.
The field is marked into five-yard lines parallel to 
the side lines, in addition to the five-yard lines run­
ning across the field.

---------------------------------------------------

6T H E TARTAN
LOCHINVAR II.o:*o%o.*ov:>v>so*o\o\c>\o*ovo\o\o\0'vo*o*
I.
Oh! Big Pinky Frampton’s come out of the West, 
With a dandy physique this bold warrior is blest; 
And save for one shin-guard he weapons has none— 
The plucky old red-headed son-of-a-gun.
II.
He kicks like a chorus girl; hits the line hard, 
And runs with the ball, gaining yard after yard; 
When on the defensive it's perfectly plain,
His hard, vicious tackles stop many a gain.
III.
The tenth of October,—’twas Saturday last 
The Grove City team, heavy, plucky and fast, 
Came hither to Pittsburgh to buck against Tech, 
And swore they would give us the axe in the neck.
IV.
But ere they alighted in Pittsburgh that day,
“It’s a cinch for Grove City,” they heard some one 
say;
“For Dowling, Tech’s captain, is out of the game, 
His shoulder is busted,—now ain’t that a shame?”
V.
“Hurrah!” then Grove City’s lone rooter did scream; 
“Hurrah!” cried the captain and likewise the team. 
“The game is a cinch, for with Dowling laid out 
We’ll tie the can on them without any doubt.”
VI.
And then the game started; Grove City had luck, 
And managed to gain lots of ground on each buck,— 
And Tech’s forward passes went sadly astray 
For Winkus, the Goat,—he was missing that day.
vii.
The first half was over; Grove City had scored. 
Then how little Willie, their lone rooter roared! 
The Tech team filed slowly to rest in the room; 
The Tech stands were shrouded in slathers of gloom. 
VIII.
The second half opened; Grove City had four 
And Tech had a goose-egg,—disheartening score. 
And only three minutes remained yet to play,— 
(The faint-hearted rooters were sneaking away.)
IX.
When suddenly Tech made a nice onside kick, 
Fooled Grove City neatly with that little trick.
The ball hit the ground, but bold Frampton was 
there,
Grabbed the ball in his arms; for the goal he did 
tear.
X.
Although Little Beeken their tacklers did block, 
One man got a grip on the l’ed-head’s left sock; 
Their center had hold of his shoestring, '’tis said, 
And the quarter-back cunningly perched on his head.
XI.
That may all be true, but suffice it to say 
That Frampton scored Tech’s only touchdown that 
day.
And many years hence we will proudly repeat 
How Pinky made victory out of defeat.
P. LUDEBUEHL & SON
ESTABLISHED 1867
DESI3ITERS OF SHOES
&tFF & ALaFndWINF TEtdR 
EL. El.
wDafT&swhswhwafafwh^fafhwhswsafawafYafwsan
OVO%<O.%ONO%.OV>%OVO%OVO\O\O\0%O\0\O.\O\
i MELLON NATIONAL BANK I
514 SMITHFIELD STREET 
409 FIFTH AVENUE
CAPITAL$4,000,000
8
*
I I I I I 
gRESOURCES OVER 41 MILLIONS £
8
SOLICITS THE ACCOUNTS OF 
STUDENTS
&tF&F&F&F&tA&L&tF&L&taLnL&Fd&&FdL&tFdLnL
MHO CLUB MEETING.b
An enthusiastic meeting of the Mho Club was held 
on Monday morning. The officers elected were:
President—M. B. Gibson.
Vice President—W. Friederich.
Secretary-Treasurer—W. Sprengle.
Athletic Manager—L. Kirk.
Executive Committee—Wilson, Casey.
Faculty Advisor—Work.
The Juniors and Sophs are extended a hearty in­
vitation to join this electrical organization. Appli­
cations for membership should be made to Mr. Work 
or “Stripes” Sprengle.
To all the friends who have extended to me their 
sympathies and help during the trying days of the 
sickness and death of Mrs. Trinks, I wish to convey 
my heartfelt thanks for the comfort they have given 
to me. W. Trinks.
PROCASTINATION.
I dream of the bright tomorrow,
I sigh for the day that has gone,
I doze through the day that is passing by, 
And blink at the setting sun.
Wm. B. Drachbar.

---------------------------------------------------

THE TAR T A N7
STUDENTS’ ACCOUNTS RECEIVE CAREFUL ATTENTION
-AT THE-Oakland Savings and Trust Co.
0
0
IROQUOIS BLOCK §
$20,.2C APIITIIILII 16S0C61 AUPRTIIILII /
0*o%0*0\o\ovoN0\o%o\0v:>\0%0\o%0\o\0XO*>v:>v>\v\0\ova*0*o*0*o*ovo*0%
DAY INDUSTRIAL.
The Day Industrial School renewed activities 
Monday, October 5th. Last yea$ we were few in 
number and had only one class, but this year we are 
going to prove our worth not only in school but also 
in the world that is. We will have a graduating 
class.
Although starting Monday, the upper-class did 
not have a meeting until Friday; but that was partly 
due to the fact that Roy Knabenshue needed our 
services in getting his airship going. After his suc­
cessful flight, we got down to business, and after 
the Director’s address on Friday' we held our initial 
meeting. Guy Frampton, the popular gridiron star, 
was elected president, and “Chuck” Carter vice pres­
ident.
The lower class have not had a meeting as yet, 
but they were a little strange and now that they 
have become acquainted with their schedule, we 
will probably have a report of their meeting before 
the next issue.
JUNIOR ELECTION.
Junior election was held last week and resulted 
as follows:
President—Bert Coldren.
Vice President—R. L. Smith.
Secretary—Borschneck.
Treasurer—Mason.
Tartan Representative—Sidney S. Baker.
CALENDAR. 
FOOT BALL PRACTICE EVERY DAY 4—6 P. M.
Wednesday.
PRACTICE GAME WITH SHADYSIDE ACADEMY.
Saturday.
FOOT-BALL GAME, TECH VS. WEST VIRGINIA. 
BAND PRACTICE, 1 P. M.
Sunday.
MANDOLIN CLUB REHEARSAL, 2.45 P. M.
Monday.
APPRENTICE AND JOURNEYMEN NIGHT 
SCHOOL OPENS.
* A FAMOUS NEW YORK HATTER MAKES ^
COURT DERBY
TECH-N EGI E
Proper headwear for all occasions, 
Silk and Opera, Derbies, soft hats and 
caps. The best kinds of both foreign 
and domestic manufacture. Write for 
our style book.
TECH-MONT
AUeWr aFw ifgUt
? ? ? /
htEtFWr aFw hsUWreUtgw oOtto Getting

---------------------------------------------------

8THE TARTAN
THE TARTAN
&uSgUdrtw ittngf $uLUF. Wrt h,rIIg ltaL Sf hWup
wtFWd Ie maLFt.Ut Pt,rFU,ag h,rIIgdc &UWWdSuL.c &aR
Entered at the Pittsburgh post office as second class matter
F. I. Gaston, ’09—Editor-in-Chief 
Lowell W. Nichols, ’10—Associate Editor 
J. H. Taxis, ’10, Night—Associate Editor 
Bess E. Sheets, M. M. C. S.—Associate Editor 
J. Roura, ’10—Business Manager
Subscription Rates
Yearly ................................................................. $2.00
Single Copy ....................................................10 Cents
For Advertising Rates, address the Business Manager, care Carnegie Technical Schools.
Last Saturday’,3 game aside from being a decidedly 
interesting athletic contest, was also interesting in­
asmuch as it gave the newly elected cheer leader a 
chance to display his talent in that line. The cheer­
ing was spontaneous and hearty, well done and the 
right yell given at the right time. Up to date, Tech 
is the proud possessor of five good yells: Long Car­
negie, Speller, Locomotive, Skyrocket, and the 
Ricka-Reck. With five more yells as good as these 
and at least two new and snappy songs, Dornberger 
would be able to get the cheering into form that it 
has never had belore.
There are some misinformed individuals in the 
world, too much engrossed in themselves and their 
own interests to be able to see anything in the “rah, 
rah,’’ part of a student’s life. If the “rah, rah,” por­
tion of it stopped there we are forced to admit it 
would be rather silly. When a foot-ball team, after 
spending months in training and practicing for the 
games gets on the field they need and must have 
the sympathy of the entire student body in order 
to be able to do the best of which they are capable. 
Now, Mr. Cynic, can you after knowing this, sug­
gest a better way of showing the hard-working team 
that fact than the “rah, rah,” method? Had you 
been to the game last Saturday, you would have 
been able to see how it works out in practice, and 
if you hadn’t joined in the grand chorus after Tech 
made their touchdown, you are hopeless, Sir, abso­
lutely beyond hope.
Musical talent is not lacking here, but the use of 
it is. The honor of being the author or composer 
of your college song should be sufficient inducement 
in itself to get some of the gifted few busy. No 
dirges, mind you, or the sad and sentimental sort 
but live and snappy songs that everybody will want 
to learn and can’t keep from singing.
We learn from “The Tech” (Boston), that Esper­
anto, the new artificial language, has been added to 
the curriculum of that Institute. Other colleges 
having made the addition this year are Clark College,
(Worcester), University of Chicago, North-western 
University, and the University of Wisconsin. Since 
there are a number of the world’s most noted and 
reputable scientists who contribute to a technical 
monthly in Esperanto called “Internacia Scienca 
Revuo” the language is far enough along to be ser­
iously considered as a part of a scientific or gen­
eral education. “It is from this engineering stand­
point rather than from the view of the linguist that 
the faculty of Technology has seen the value of 
Esperanto.” ______________
Isn’t it about time that something was done about 
our Athletic constitution? As yet we are proceed­
ing on nothing more tangible than the personal 
opinion of two or three members of the Faculty, 
who have had enough to saddle themselves with 
the management cf our Athletic affairs.
There have been occasional mutterings of varying 
degrees of loudness about the size of the Athletic 
contribution and the mysterious channels in which 
it is expended. It is true that a good deal of money 
has been taken in for athletics and also quite a bun­
dle spent incidentally and up-to-date there has been 
no official accounting to the students of the amounts 
collected and the channels in which these amounts 
have been spent. It is extremely doubtful if more 
than half a dozen students know any of the condi­
tions on which we have possession of our Athletic 
field. And what seems still more extraordinary, 
there doesn’t seem to be much anxiety among the 
majority about the ultimate destination of their 
money.
We all seem interested in having a winning foot­
ball team and assessments to make up deficits from 
social affairs have always been raised without undue 
effort, then, why is it that we are so phlegmatic about 
getting our Athletic affairs on some business basis? 
It takes no physic intelligence to foresee the awful 
outburst if there should be an assessment levied 
to make up a deficit in our Athletic funds; but how 
are we going to stop these deficits if we have no 
way of finding them out while still in the process 
of making?
Up to date, then, we know nothing about how 
much of our money has been turned over to Ath 
letics, and how much to other student activities, be­
cause the treasurer, however anxious to report, has 
nobody to report to. The editor took the trouble 
to make some inquiries as to the state of our finan­
ces and found several things that were quite a sur­
prise and doubtless would be to the average stu­
dent. Mr. Leeds is anxious to report to somebody 
and to get a regular system of audit for the treas­
urer's books. And if the student body feels that 
their money is not being spent judiciously, let them 
get busy and exercise their veto prerogative. The 
authorities would much prefer some interest even if 
in the form of active opposition to the prevailing 
apathy.
So get your hammers out and let each class elect 
some representative to meet representatives from 
the other classes and settle this matter for good.

---------------------------------------------------

THETA RT AN9
MR. HOWER UP IN THE AIR—OFF THE EARTH 
FOR THREE HOURS.
If a vote of the Carnegie Tech students were taken 
on the question, ‘ What part of the Sesqui-centennial 
Celebration interested you most?” it is safe to say 
that the majority would express their preference 
for the balloon ascensions of Roy Knabenshue. With 
the entire outfit camped in the park right outside 
the front door every one found it difficult to keep 
away. From the time of the first arrival of the 
aviator during the Sesqui week until the successful 
flights later on, a goodly number of students could 
always be found in the tent inspecting the dirigible. 
It even went so far as one acting in the capacity 
of self-appointed assistant on the “all suggestions 
and general nuisance committee.”
Tuesday,, although foggy, was an ideal day for 
both kinds of ballooning. A few minutes after 11 
the preparations lor the flight having been completed 
the big dirigible was brought out from the tent, 
and carefully balanced. With the motor working 
smoothly and the front end pointed upward at a 
slight angle, all hands let go the frame work and 
the balloon at once gently glided up in the air. 
Steering to the right or left was accomplished by 
the back rudder which moved about a fixed point 
horizontally. Mr. Knabenshue regulated the tilt by 
his position on the frame. When he desired to turn 
the front down, he walked forward nearly to the 
motor on one of the bamboo rods not over one and
• a half inches in diameter, that formed the frame 
work. This ascent lasted nearly an hour, and for 
the most part was over the down town part of the 
city. Returning to the park at good speed he landed 
gently in exactly the same place from which he had 
started. It was then announced that that constituted 
the last trip he would make in the dirigible, as he 
would start at once to transfer the gas from it to a 
spherical balloon and make a flight that afternoon.
With the assistance of nearly half Tech the bal­
loon was made ready for flight. Up to this time it 
had not been announced who would accompany Mr. 
Knabenshue on the trip. Mr. Hower of the Physics 
department, came along with the registering ther­
mometer, hygrometer, and anneroid barometer and 
with Mr. Field interviewed the gentleman on the 
subject of having him take the instrument up to 
see what sort of a record could be obtained. Mr. 
Knabenshue not only consented to take the instru­
ment up with him, but invited one of them to go 
along, as also Miss Gordon of the “Press,” was to 
accompany him. Mr. Field at once withdrew in 
favor of “the man who understood the instrument 
best.” This left Mr. Hower the chance to be the 
passenger. Seen about a minute or so after this, 
he expressed himself as not very enthusiastic over 
ballooning and stated that the instrument was au­
tomatic, and would work as well without any attend­
ant.
When the time came, however, two figures were 
in the car, and it was Mr. Knabenshue who was 
seated in the ropes overhead. Wild excitement ran 
through the crowd as the news that Mr. Hower was 
to make the trip became known.
The balloon rose gently for a hundred feet or so, 
and then more rapidly as ballast was thrown out. 
A slight breeze at once caught the craft and bore it 
westward. In a few minutes the occupants were 
no longer recognizable, and after they had been 
gone half an hour, it was only with the greatest 
difficulty that the balloon could be seen at all.
Giving his experience afterward, Mr. Hower said: 
“Did I enjoy it? Why I never had a better time in 
my life. It was glorious. After we landed I said
I would not give two years in Europe for the ex­
perience, but since a little time has passed and I 
have gotten a better prospective on it all, perhaps
I would not make» it so strong, but it was a most 
delightful experience. No, I didn’t feel the slightest 
sickness as we rose, and the view was superb. 
The instrument worked splendidly all the time and 
we got a fine record. We had a little excitement 
when we went to land. The breeze was much 
stronger when we got nearer the earth than it was 
farther up, or it seemed that way to us. The plaee 
where we came down was over a little sort of a 
valley with the sides overgrown with oaks. The 
guide-rope hanging down would get caught in the 
tops as we went along and jerk the balloon rather 
sharply. Miss Gordon stood it splendidly, and sat 
in the bottom of the basket when the jerking began. 
No, she didn’t cry out, but just wanted to know if 
we hadn’t better pull up the rope. After we cleared 
the trees, we came down in a field just as gently as 
a feather.”
The ¡Sophomore and Junior Classes met and adopt­
ed resolutions of sympathy as follows on Friday last: 
Pittsburg, Pa., October 9, 1908.
We, the members of the Junior and Sophomore 
classes, Applied Science, of the Carnegie Technical 
Schools, extend cur sincere sympathy to Professor 
Trinks and family, in the hour of their bereavement.
Signed,
E. B. Taggart,
R. L. Smith,
R. P. Bascom,
Committee.
SOPHOMORE ELECTIONS.
At a meeting of the Sophomore Class held last 
Friday, the following permanent officers were elect­
ed:
President—H. J. McCorkle, Dallas,. Tex.
Vice President—E. R. Boots, New Brighton, Pa. 
Secretary—R. II. Horton, Bellevue, Pa.
Treasurer—R. S. Wagner, New Florence, Pa. 
Historian—R. Lawrie, Sewickley, Pa.
Rep. to Tartan—W. L. Abbott, Pittsburgh, Pa.

---------------------------------------------------

IOT H E TARTA N
PERTINENT
AND
IMPERTINENT
J. C. Fitzharris, a former Lehigh man, is taking 
Metallurgy with the Sophomores. Mr. Fitzharris 
is a Kappa Sigma.
Mitchell's hydrogen generator went up in the air; 
so did Mitchell as he thought of the hole in his 
breakage fee.
J. H. Waxmaa and F. Armstrong, former 1911 
(Night) men, have entered the Sophomore Class.
“Slide Rule” Baker is becoming very much in evi­
dence, due to his efforts in trying to help some un­
wary Plebes to manipulate the slide rule.
Candidates for the Fussers’ Society—Lew Hart­
man, Mech.; Hobson, McCorkle.
The news of the death of Prof. Trinks’ wife reached 
the students on Friday at one o’clock. The Juniors 
and Sophomores held a joint meeting and adopted 
resolutions, expressing their sorrow and extending 
their deepest sympathy to Prof. Trinks in his be­
reavement.
Gibson is hard at work endeavoring to get new 
recruits in line for the White Friars.
W. K. Cadman, ex-’lO, entered Penn State this 
Fall.
We wish Capt. Dowling a very speedy recovery.
Mr. and Mrs. Pfouts have returned from Canton, 
Ohio, where they attended the golden wedding cele­
bration of Mr. Pfout’s parents on October 7th.
All national Fraternity men are requested to see 
either R. L. Smith, Caldron or Buck Thomson.
It would almost make one decide to get one of 
“those hair-cuts” and wear pumps to tee such a 
demonstration of popularity as one young gentle­
man got last Monday from the M. M. C. S. girls.
For the benefit of the Faculty, especially, we ven­
ture to remark rbat the e in penalize is long.
The mournful cry from the bleachers of “Hold ’em, 
Tech,” has accompanied too many foot-ball funerals 
to be of any further use. It is at once a confession 
of weakness and an omen of defeat. Shrill, sharp, 
quick yells do not chill the spectators, at least.
Advertising English as seen in Pittsburgh street 
cars:—
Wall paper
2 cents a 
roll upstairs.
Patent Leather Shoes 
Guaranteed not to crack,
While they last.
Who says Tech students are not patriotic? Some 
of the fellows who carried banners in the Sesqui- 
centennial parade ere so loth to part with them that 
four are missing yet.
Tech shouldn’t complain of dearth of foot-ball ma­
terial when Chicago University only has seventeen 
men in the ’Varsity squad.
Thomson was getting an appropriation to buy soap 
with and had asked Mr. Leeds if he should bi’ing an 
itemized bill when Basset butted in and said “yes, 
get the bill so we’ll know you got the soap and not 
the suds.”
> Pfeil Met., ’08, is chemist for the Mt. Vernon Car 
Manufacturing Company. It is only a question of 
a few months until the letter-heads will carry his 
name.
GLEE AND MANDOLIN CLUBS.
The Glee and Mandolin Clubs have reorganized for 
the season and the first rehearsal was held last Sun­
day. The rehearsals will be held regularly after * 
this on Sunday afternoons.
The Clubs had a very successful season last year, 
both from a financial and an artistic standpoint, de­
spite the hard times. New members are needed in 
both clubs, and any one who can play an instrument 
or sing at all should come out to rehearsal and try 
out.
Mr. Dorrington will have charge of the Glee Club 
again and Mr. Scheidlemeir will look after the Man­
dolin Club.
SENIOR CLASS ELECTIONS.
The Senior Class of Day Applied Science met pn 
October 6 at 12.30, and, remarkable to say, there was 
a large majority of the class present. Retiring Pres­
ident Watrous called the meeting to order, and after 
conveying the thanks of the Director to the class for 
the part they had taken in the Sesqui-Centennial pa­
rade, called for nominations for the various class 
officers.
Dowling was elected President by a very comfort­
able majjority. There was very little competition 
over the other offices, and Close was elected Vice 
President; Walton, Secretary; Patterson, Treasurer, 
and Chancellor, Historian. Dornberger was chosen 
temporary cheer leader, with instructions to get busy 
before the Grove City game.

---------------------------------------------------

Ma“ MThMT811
1912.
1 h6 class of 1912 starts on another year of its 
school life with hope and ambition undiminished. 
Thé majority of the class is missing. ’Tis like call­
ing the roll after a regiment has fought a hard 
day’s battle. Here and there a voice is heard an­
swering “Here,” when his name is called, but to 
most of the names no response is heard. Where are 
the missing? Some were not able to pass their 
exams, and are with our brethren of 1913 (poor fel­
lows) ; others became discouraged and did not re­
turn this year, the same being those who do not be­
lieve in the strenuous life; others are no longer
Pittsburgers, having taken up their abode in some 
other burg, and rumor says some have joined the
ranks of the benedicts and taken unto themselves
wives. These latter have our deepest sympathy and 
good wishes.
But those who are left are determined that there 
shall be no more such inroads upon their number. 
They have new and harder subjects this year, and 
in order to cover the ground it will take more work, 
but they are determined to deliver the goods and 
come out victors at the end. We’re not here because 
we’re here, but we are here for a purpose and we 
have not removed our goal an inch from where we 
planted it last year, although the distance to it is 
not so great. Each year puts us forward or sets us 
back, therefore bringing us closer our goal or re­
moving us farther from it. It requires more effort 
to go forward than backward, and it means harder 
work, but some men love work. Those are the men, 
who, when they are out to reach their goal, have it 
taken up and removed several years ahead of them. 
How many of these are in 1912, fellows?
MacCowan, the captain of our foot-ball squad, is 
back at school after having spent a very enjoyable 
vacation of five weeks in Wisconsin.
All the class officers were fortunate enough to 
have passed their exams and we have no vacancies 
to fill save that of secretary, Mr. Sample having 
moved to York State. His successor will very likely 
be chosen at the next class meeting.
The Tartan lost one of its most valued contribu­
tors when Stamm, of 1911, left school. A. F. S. was 
a strenuous young man, who worked hard for his 
class, and his former classmates will have no easy 
task picking a fit, successor.
We have lost “Seven-foot” Smith, but have ac­
quired “Big” Hess, so equilibrium is maintained and 
the world rolls onward.
Weber is “right on the job” with his plans for 
the foot-ball squad. With big Mac and little Weber 
at the helm, and Werry Swinebank, Helm and the 
rest of the bunch back of them, 1912 need have no 
fears for her foot-ball reputation.
^ne'Best Store
FORBES & ATWOOD STS.
it GFduLt lIuL hI,nd 
T.aUFdW bIgtd
FOUR PAIR IN A BOX ONE DOLLAR A BOX
Guaranteed to Wear 3 Months
Say, fellows, do you know that there is a new 
night class? The class of 1913, we believe, is their 
official title. ’Tis said that they are so slow that 
some of them never put in an appearance for regis­
tration and payment of tuition until last Friday. A 
week behind the procession. Oh, my! What a 
start!
Economice and Electricity are among the new 
subjects we tackle this year. How do you like ’em, 
fellows?
“Go to father,” she said when Mac asked her to wed, 
And she knew that Mac knew that her father was 
dead,
And she knew that Mac knew what a life he had led, 
And she knew that Mac knew what she meant when 
she said,
“Go to Father.”
They say that Smith was a very nervous bride­
groom, and in fact, a very excited young man for 
several weeks previous to his wedding date. It is 
told that on the eve of his wedding day, a few of his 
bachelor friends dropped in for a last smoke and a 
fond good-bye, and as Smith escorted them to the 
door upon their departure, he turned to a favorite 
and asked in a hoarse whisper, “Say, Jim, is it kiss- 
tomary to cuss the bride after the ceremony?”
The “Beau Brummel” of the class failed to pass 
this year again. Lonergan evidently puts no trust 
in the “Third time is the charm” adage, for he has 
quit. “Twice in the same place is enough for me,” 
he says.
President Helm has called a meeting of the class 
for this evening immediately after school adjourns. 
A new secretary to serve until January, when new 
officers will be elected, will very likely be chosen 
and other business will be taken up.

---------------------------------------------------

12THE TARTAN
1911—NIGHT.
During the past two years the Class of 1911 has 
earned the reputation of hustlers; but all records 
were broken on Monday night, October 5, 1908, when 
notices were posted for a class meeting, permission 
to use the Assembly Room secured, and a quorum 
raised, all in 20 minutes.
At 8.10 P. M. President Stamm called the meeting 
to order, and, all other business being dispensed 
with, the nominations for officers were opened.
McCully, Elliott, Locke, and Barchfield, were 
named for President.
Wilharm and Yenny received nominations for Vice 
President.
The names of McCall, Locke, and Abel were pro­
posed for Secretary.
Dougherty, Woods and McCully, and Yenny were 
named as candidates for Guardian of the Exchecquer.
Gump and Elliott were nominated for Historian.
Pringle was renominated for Marshall and by 
being the only candidate was unanimously elected.
The election resulted in the following officers:
President—McCully.
Vice President—Wilharm.
Secretary—McCall.
Treasurer—Yenny.
Historian—Gump.
Ex-President Stamm and ex-Secretary Kline yield­
ed place to the newly elected officers, and all the re­
tiring officers were called upon for addresses. These 
were followed by short speeches of appreciation and 
acceptance by the incoming leaders, and closed with 
a voluntary oration of farewell by Mr. Oren.
Upon motion, a rousing cheer was given for the 
officers of last year as a token of appreciation for 
their earnest and untiring services.
The meeting was finally adjourned at 9.00 P. M.
The class has lost a number of good men this year. 
Among them are Glasser, Waxman, and Leff, who 
have entered the day classes; C. B. Kline and Stamm, 
who have left school; and Hess, Oren, and R. ;S. 
Kline, who have donated their persons and minds to 
1912. A vote of thanks is due from 1912 for these 
last.
REINFORCED CONCRETE TANKS.
Written for the Mining and Scientific Press 
By L. Mess.
The improvements obtained in the last few years 
by using reinforced concrete for the most difficult 
kinds of construction is to be considered at least as 
important as the progress obtained in mechanical 
and electrical engineering. One of the latest adap­
tations of reinforced concrete is to the construction 
of tanks for water, oil, gas, cyanide solutions, slime, 
and for all common as well as corrosive liquids. 
Europe has been several years ahead of the United 
States in this work. The first attempt in this direc-
TyTyTywWTyTWTWWwTyTvTV'TvTyTywTy
PICTURE FRAMING ?
AMATUER DEVELOPING AND PRINTING £
CUT FLOWERS X
B. "W. o
114 Atwood Street, bet. Fifth and Forbes
%OTmM%'Û*Ïh TmT$EMl—of—
BALL ROOM, FANCY, STAGE and STEP
DANCING........................................................
Physical Culture, Grace and Deportment 
401-403-405 Liberty Avenue, PITTSBURG, PA.
1925 Court—Phones—9231 Court
Jlwa a awa A V*-,- -«lvc j»_ y* Jt- mfm
oWELL PRESSED IS WELL DRESSED *
Liberty Cleaning & Pressing Co.
301 South Craig Street
FOR EXPERTS—ENGINEERS, ARCHITECTS, 
DRAUGHTSMEN — EXPERTS OR STUDENTS
Should get acquainted with the resources of supply 
for all Drawing and Artists’ Materials offered 
by this houseKurtz, Langbein & Swartz
' 606 Wood St., 6th Ave. 
0X0X0S0X0%0X0X0X0X0X0%0X0X0*0X0X0X0X
0*0?JAKE’S DANCING ACADEMY
Craig & Forbes Sts., Charles Bldg.
CLASSES—Wednesday and Saturday Evenings 0 
PRIVATE LESSONS—By Appointment
O5 Lessons, $2.00
V0\0\0N0V:*0\0VC>\0*0*0*0\0\0\0\0\0\0
0%0*0%0\0%0%0*0\0%0\0\0*0\0\0%0%0*0N 
PHILLIPS & MANNING 0
0 STATIONERS 0
§ MAGAZINES POST CARDS §
A 3702 Forbes Street
3 CIGARS TOBACCO *0 0X0*0%0S0X0%0X0X0X0X0X0X0%0*0*0*0*0\0
0*0\0*0%0%0%O*0V0%0%0%0*0*0*0V0%0*0S
1 ÛR iR ME$GmM
CHOICE HOME DRESSED 
POULTRY
MEATS AND
3804 Forbes Street^ Both Phones 
0*0V0%0%0S0\0%0\0%0*0%0%0*0%0*0*0X0%O
0\0%0*0\0\0*0*0S0%0\0V0*0\O%0\0%0%0*
\ MURDOCH-KERR CO. \
y PRINTERS AND PUBLISHERS ?
0 Ample Facilities Large Experience ^
H Satisfactory Service 0
* STRAWBERRY AND CHERRY WAYS
0*0%0%0*0%0%0V0%0%0%0*0%0*0%0X0%0*0X

---------------------------------------------------

Ma“ MThMT8
tion was by Joseph Monier at Paris, said to have 
been the production of cement flower pots and ves­
sels large enough for shrubs and trees. As early as 
1868 he had employed the new material in construct­
ing water tanks of large capacity. The success of 
these was so great that in a few years Monier’s re­
inforced concrete was extensively adopted in Ger­
many and Austria for tanks and reservoirs.
In the United States one of the largest concrete 
water tanks is in the town of Attleboro, Mass. Attle­
boro was supplied with water up to the spring of 
1904 from a wrought-iron stand-pipe 30 feet in diam­
eter by 125 feet high, holding 600,000 gallons of 
water. In March, 1904, a break in the line, imme­
diately after a fire, showed the authorities the ne­
cessity of building another and much larger water- 
storage reservoir to hold 1,500,000 gallons. The 
water of Attleboro, though of excellent quality for 
domestic and manufacturing purposes, contains car­
bon dioxide in such quantities as to attack wrought- 
iron and steel and to greatly shorten the life of an 
iron stand-pipe, nearly two tons of rust being taken 
out of the old stand-pipe annually. On making esti­
mates for the new reservoir it was found that one 
made of reinforced concrete would cost about $8,000 
less than if built of steel. The structure as built is 
50 feet diameter, 10G feet high, with walls 18 inches 
thick at the bottom and 8 inches thick at the top, the 
batter being all on the outside of the wall. The inlet 
pipe rises to 40 feet above the bottom and the water 
is compelled to leave the tank through a 24-inch pipe 
in the bottom, thus insuring circulation. Above the 
top, .cornice openings are made all the way round the 
tank, affording a uniform exit for the water in case 
of overflow, so that no washing of the concrete can 
occur at any one place. On one side rises a wrbught- 
iron ladder, held in place by bronze bolts.
A remarkable elevated tank of reinforced concrete 
was recently built for the Anaheim Water Co., at 
Anaheim, Cal. It is the first tank of its kind ever 
constructed in the United States. It is 32 feet diam­
eter by 38 feet high, supported on concrete posts 70 
feet high above the ground. It has a capacity of
200,000 gallons, and is made throughout of concrete, 
reinforced with rings and vertical members of twist­
ed steel. The walls of the tank are 3 inches thick 
at the top and 5 inches at the bottom. When tried 
and tested it was found to be as tight as a bottle, 
without appreciable cracks. The floor is supported 
by concrete beams radiating from the center, and 
the twelve posts, each 16 inches square, are stiffened 
by two lines of horizontal struts at equal intervals 
above the base. The foundation of the tower con­
sists of a heavy slab of reinforced concrete extend­
ing 4 feet into the ground. The tank has a conical­
shaped roof, also of concrete, 2 inches thick, with a 
cornice over the edge, slightly raised to afford ven­
tilation for the water within. From the lowest 
foundation to the extreme top the tower has a height 
of 112 feet. It is graceful in outline, and yet gives 
a pleasing appearance of massiveness and solidity. 
The cost was about 75% of the lowest estimate on a 
steel tank and tower of equal dimensions.
Tne water tower recently built at Fort Revere, 
Boston Harbor, is one of tne most interesting exam­
ples of deep-tank construction in the United States. 
From the ground surface to the apex the height is 
about 93 feet. The tank inside the tower has a diam­
eter of 20 feet, leaving an annular space between the 
tank and the inside wall, which is occupied by a 
spiral stairway leading to the observatory.
Reinforced concrete tanks have repeatedly been 
proposed for use as cyanide tanks, slime tanks, solu­
tion tanks, as well as leaching and percolation tanks. 
Though the cost of reinforced concrete tanks de­
pends on the shape and size, yet the cost is not in 
the same degree dependent on the size as is the case 
with steel or wooden tanks, that is to say, larger re­
inforced concrete tanks are proportionally cheaper 
than steel tanks. The durability of steel tanks is 
limited to about 20 years at most. In countries with 
a changeable climate the limit is from 7 to 8 years. 
In countries with hot climates steel tanks may war]) 
after 2 or 3 years. Therefore, in spite of all their 
disadvantages, wooden tanks are generally chosen 
because of their freedom from the drawback of rust­
ing which destroys steel tanks. When cement can 
be had at reasonable rates there is no doubt that it 
should be employed in preference to either steel or 
wood in the construction of mill-tanks. With ordi­
nary reinforcing they will resist vibration indefinitely.
The Stanford man who wrote the following 
apropos of the town going dry, must have been hit 
where he lives:
Now that the festive sea-shore yields us up again 
to grind, we tread the squared-off, paired-off Quad, 
and say that we don’t mind. But in our heart’s an 
awful doubt, and in our mind’s a fear. We’re once 
more with the fellows, but we don’t know why we’re 
here. For Menlo is as good as dry, they’ve stolen 
Charlie’s goat; there’s moisture in our eye, but 
there’s no moisture in our throat. And ain't it 
awful, Mabel—it’s terrific, goodness knows—the suit 
case ain’t the thing of old—IT’S USED TO CARRY 
CLOTHES.
O, dry our tears, immortal gods, as Abee dried 
the town! Pray tap a cloudland brewery, there, 
and run a pipe-line down. For what’s the use of 
living in a village such as this, where throats are 
parched, and tongues hang out, and there’s no liquid 
bliss? Far rathei would we hit the world and work, 
yes, really work. We’d promise that we’d toil and 
grind and never duty shirk. We’d gladly give our 
energy, and ne’er fall by the way, if our employer’d 
only grant one glass of beer per day.
One glass of beer per day, O joy! One glass of 
beer per day! Will e’er we hear those words again, 
before our hair turns gray? Will ever, in this life 
of ours, except in nightly dream, we see old Char­
lie’s curly head, and watch his bright eyes gleam? 
Will ever, O bacchanal gods, will ever, ever we, 
that old familiar ballad hear: “Well, what’s it going 
to be?”

---------------------------------------------------

1.1THE TARTAN
ILTAw FUnitN FUetF TeR weEIf atIhPOE%E*EÛÏh
WINT ERnn
WNNN UeanrwiLfn EThP E*$
PLEBES.
Who said “banquet?” Sure!—on November 31.
Dues should always be coughed up in a hurry.
The Registrar's office was kept busy last week re­
cording cuts. Two much airship.
The Plebes are well represented on the ’Varsity 
team by Hittner, Crawford, Roe and others. Let 
there be a grand turnout of Plebes to support the 
team and incidentally the above named gentlemen.
Target practice is not down on the schedule, but 
nevertheless that is what was handed out to us last 
week.
At next year’s class fight we won't need a flag­
staff; we will use "Tenfoot’’ Brown.
We were told recently that Mohammedanism, 
Buddhism and other isms have claims to belief just 
as weighty as our religion. Why is it that Moham­
medan and Buddhistic nations are at present 
time playing very much of a second fiddle and the 
Anglo-Saxon stands paramount among nations?
By this time everybody is presumably equipped 
with the “57” varieties of notebooks that are re­
quired to meet the demands of the Plebe year. Now, 
if you hire a couple of secretaries, an expert ac­
countant and a janitor, you may be able to handle 
them so as to get a “P.”
The day Plebe class of 1912 wishes to extend to 
all Industrial and Preparatory classes its heartiest 
welcome and most earnest wish for a year of pleas­
ant relationship 2nd good fellowship.
The Plebe foot-ball team recently organized bids 
fair to be a great success under the leadership of 
Schmucker and managership of Knapp. With such 
men for candidates as Grover, Hall, Rex, Hatton, 
“Tenfoot” Brown, Mullen, Henderson, and others 
who have shown their worth, and whose names are 
unfortunately not known at this writing, wre can rest 
assured that the Plebe class is going to have a win­
ning team. Mr. Knapp has received several chal­
lenges from other schools and will be able in the 
near future to publish a schedule. Let everybody 
come out and try for a place. Practice is held 
every afternoon after school hours until 5.45 P. M., 
on the common at the end of the school building. 
Although the class will endeavor to furnish foot-ball 
gear to candidates, we are relying on all who have 
any to bring their own gear along.
The class of 1912 will go down to C. T. S. history 
as the class that had a symbol for the office of 
President of the class. This symbol is a cap made 
of black and white striped cloth, in fact, it is a 
convict’s dome covering, a relic of the day when the 
Sophs furnished the Plebe President with an entire 
suit of the same material. Immediately on the elec­
tion of a class President a coronation ceremony will 
be gone through, in which the cap will be the star 
actor, being placed or jammed on . the head of the 
President by a committee and allowed to repose 
there for a while without molestation; of course the 
ceremony will be gone through with a degree of 
solemnity suitable to such a significant occasion.
1910.
On Monday night the entire class, with a few ex­
ceptions, were on hand to continue the work for an 
other year. Entire satisfaction was expressed with 
the schedule, and the report of a five-niglits-a-week 
session proved groundless. The Director assured 
us at the commencement of last year that under 
no circumstances would the period be increased to 
five nights a week, and he has kept his word to us.
During the summer, Mr. L. Igrote was married.
Mr. Edward George, of the Mechanicals, was mar­
ried at the close of last term. Next?
Mr. Summers, of the Mechanicals, entertained 
some of his classmates in his rooms, in Oakland on 
Friday evening. The luncheon served was enjoyed 
by all present, and satisfaction was expressed for' 
its quality. Mr. Summers' hospitality is well known 
and his ability as a host was further exemplified on 
Friday night.
The following officers were elected to serve for the 
ensuing year: —
President—Jas. Herron.
Vice President—D. K. Reid. .
Secretary-Treasurer—D. V. Newcomer.
Advisor—Prof. Sproul.
Historian—Edward George.
Thistle—R. K. Culbertson.
Hearing of the death of Mrs. Alice Trinks, wife of 
our instructor, Prof. Trinks, President Smith called 
a meeting of the class and resolutions of sympathy 
were drawn up and forwarded to the family.
Messrs. Skeehan, Noonan, and Peters were chosen 
as representatives of the class to attend the funeral 
and provide a floral offering as a further token of 
our sympathy.

---------------------------------------------------

Ma“ MThMT8
THE CRUCIBLE CLUB.
Just before the publication of the Thistle last 
spring, the Senior Chemists and Metallurgists were 
away east on an inspection tour. On account of the 
great hurry in which the Thistle was put through, 
nothing appeared in it concerning the Crucible Club. 
It is not my aim to give a complete resume of the 
work the organization has done in the past, and I 
do not have to acquaint the student body of its ex­
istence, but owing to some misunderstanding which 
has arisen among the ranks of the mining men, 1 
have undertaken a double mission, first, to dwell 
briefly on the aims and work of the Crucible Club, 
and second, to attempt to correct the erroneous im­
pression formed by some of the underclassmen.
The preamble in the constitution of the Crucible 
Club briefly states its aims in the passage, “to pro­
mote good fellowship among the members and to 
bring them in touch with men engaged in the allied 
subjects of chemistry, metallurgy, and mining.”
All who have participated in any social function 
held by the Crucible Club, have always voted it a 
success. During the past school year, the society 
held several informal dances ii conjunction with 
the Civil Engineering Society. Such affairs help to 
make strenuous school life a pleasure.
Social intercourse, however, was not the only 
phase of the organization. There were semi­
monthly meetings, when the members were enter­
tained by some prominent chemist or engineer. 
Very often the talk was illustrated by stereopticon 
views. A lunch always followed the lecture. 
Among the speakers we have had during the past 
year I may mention Foster, Hewitt, a well-known 
mining engineer, who spoke on “Vanadium and its 
Source;” Dr. Porter, who is at the head of the TJ. 
S. Geological Survey Station in Pittsburg, delivered 
an address on the “Advantages of the Bi-product 
Coke Process over the Bee-Hive Process;” Mr. Mc­
Grath, of Wm. B. Scaife & Co., spoke on “Water 
Purification for Technical Purposes,” and last, but 
not least, Wm. Berger, F. R. M. S., who entertaine i 
the society with his “Latest, Least, Greatest; Glori­
ously Microscopically Visible, Wonderful, Hereto­
fore Invisible, Spiritual Etherial Mind Forces, 
Thought Forces, Soul Forces, Democritian, Epicur- 
ian, Leibnitzian Monads; Elections, Ions and 
Atoms.”
For further information on the last mentioned 
subject, consult Dr. Fernekes or Mr. Lowe.
A rumor has been spread broadcast that the min­
ing men have organized themselves under the name 
of the “Pick and Ax” Club. If this is true, it does 
not at all reflect discreditably on the men who are 
behind this movement. On the contrary, the writer 
thinks that they are showing the right spirit. But 
the time is not ripe for the mining men to branch 
out. The course itself is just in its embryonic state, 
and the men taking it are very few in number. The 
committee that drew up the constitution for the 
Crucible Club, recognizing how closely allied a
—FOR— fjPrUd Tw aFw PtF mtFWd •>
You can get a half Pound of our 4»
HOME MADE COCOANUT CREAM KISSES *%
Made in our Candy Kitchen, and
Fresh evey day. ^
UnggtRhF snotRw f
3618 Forbes Avenue Iroquois Block. ^
* If you can’t come, ’phone.
*jj I am the only dry cleaner in Oakland that
ij does his own work. I guarantee you satisfac- 
t" tion. See SHUMAN at 3911 Forbes Street.
* His customers are pleased.
4*
%i
*
IO.*
\O\O\O\O\0\O\O\ONO%O%O\O\O%O\O\O%O\O o O* T. E CH BARBER SHOP *
rOa“h“ pul 9o’cu kSly. E
^ And where you can always get first-class work. £
^ H F. Van Curen, Proprietor, ^
^ CRAIG AND FORBES +
sAs«s«s«s«8«eg«vNg«g«g«g«vdvdg«vdveT«
o\o\o\o\^\<*\ov>v>v>v>v>\ov>v>v>v>v>>
L S. SFALDINE I Ml,
The Largest Manufacturers in the g 
World of Official Athletic Supplies
? AOOP %TOOc %ThMEP %TOO
f G,t hnaWtdc bI,ntfc GIge I
? GlM*ThG'M T&&TÛTP'h
yi Spalding’s handsomely illustrated catalogue of all sports contains £
n numerous suggestions, mailed free anywhere ut
A. G. SPALDING & BROS.ft 439 Wood Street Pittsburg", Pa 3
course in mining is to chemistry and metallurgy, 
made it, the constitution, broad enough to embrace 
all three.
Even assuming that the mining men are strong 
enough to branch out, it strikes me that such a 
secession would be very much similar if the men 
taking the option of machine design would organ­
ize themselves into an organization apart from the 
Inventor’s Club. So, therefore, let the three work 
co-operatively and all lend their efforts to continue 
the success of the Crucible Club.
W. I. Sivitz, ’08.

---------------------------------------------------

1 9THE TARTAN
ELECTRIFYING GERMAN RAILROADS.
Consul Talbot J. Albert sends the report from 
Brunswick that a beginning with electrifying of some 
of the railroads in Prussia will soon be undertaken, 
the preliminary plans being as follows:
The railroad ministry v/ill permit the first great 
attempts to be made with electricity power in con­
nection with the centrals now existing in the admin­
istrative district of Magdeburg. In the first place the 
short sections Giisten-Stassfurt and Gusten-Bernburg- 
Kothen will be arranged for electrical operation. 
Later, in further execution of plans, there will be a 
change of power on the line Magdeburg-Bitterfeld- 
Leipzig, and afterwards on the line Halle-Leipzig. 
Upon these, in themselves complete lines of road, 
electrical power will wholly supplant steam.
The line Leipzig-Halle has been chosen for a 
special reason. By the electrical operation between 
these two points there will be a greater increase in 
the speed and frequency of the trains dispatched, so 
that in this way Leipzig will be brought into closer 
connection with the western main lines. The two 
lines are under the district management of Halle, 
which has been instructed from the ministry at Ber­
lin to make a detailed inquiry how far electrical 
power can be economically used in comparison with 
the present method of operation. It is said that the 
preliminary work for this statistical inquiry has al­
ready been done by the ministry, so that the admin­
istration at Halle has only to verify the results al­
ready obtained.
The most favorable factor for the economical de­
termination of the question are the bituminous de­
posits (Braunkoulen) between Halle and Leinzig. 
This kind of coal is not considered a suitable fuel 
for locomotives. One electrical central will suffice 
for the operation of both lines, and this will be built 
in the midst of the coal strata. Some years ago the 
favorable location of these strata suggested the elec­
trifying of the railroad between Koln and Trier, but 
this was abandoned.
It is said the passenger traffic will be handled in 
the same manner as upon the road Berlin-Lichter- 
felde-Ost, namely, with small trains and quick ser­
vice. The express and freight trains will be dis­
patched with electrical locomotives. The length of 
the two lines together amounts to 102% miles, the 
line Leipzig-Magdeburg being about eighty miles and 
the line Leipzig-Halle twenty-two and one-half miles. 
For the current, which will be conducted on thin 
wires, 10,000 volts will be required. It is calculated 
. that the change in the system of operation will take 
two years.—Daily Consular and Trade Reports.
2 B. & B.
new‘derby hats
Display of new styles Men’s Headwear— 
latest ideas from foremost makers.
Crofut & Knapp’s De Luxe, $6.00.
Knapp Felts, $4.00.
C. & K. preferred, $5.00.
C. & K. special, $3.00.
• Stetson’s, $3.50.
• —Black, Green, Brown.
i Four new shades of Green extra made Hats 4* 
$ —$2.00—same trimmings as you get on $3.00 4»
• Hats . 4.\ BOGGS & BUHL »
0\O\0N0X0X0%0\0\0\0*O\0%0%0\OVO\0\O\
0
§/0
§
1Ii
%
0*
0*0
KAERCHER’S DRUG STORE
H. R. SCOTT, Manager 
Confectionery, Cigars, Stationery, Etc.
PRESCRIPTIONS A SPECIALTY
Cor. Forbes & Craig Sts.
0*0'ÛtI
8
8
g*
S0Pittsburg, Pa. ^ 0
Phones—Bell, 1456 Schenley; P. & A. 303 Park &
3*}*\0**>*\0*V}*\0*\0*V:>*\0*N0*%0*X0*
f^-fr0-Ki;4'0-fr04^^4'04<^04'0*fr0:4*0-!-04*0«K^04*0 t 0ÏFTOWeFS
The largest stock on hand at all times 
is the one from which to select.
The prices are reasonable and con­
sistent with the best quality.
t. A. W. SMITH
j* 345 SIXTH AVENUE PITTSBURG, PA.
0 *
0v:-v:v:.v:-v:-\vv:'v:-v:.v:’\<’\<’v>s':’v:'v:\0x
HAND TURNED
COLLARS
0
0
STEVENSON AND FORBES STREETS ~ 
^ Bell Phone 2943 Grant P. & A. Phone 148 Main S0*0*0\0%0*0\0*0\0%0*0%0*0\0\0\0\0N0\
