TARTAN
Volume 66 — Number 1 2Wednesday, December 7, 1966
Tartan Grill Opens 
To Mixed Reactions
The most heralded event of the school year, next to 
the Mellon merger and the WQED agreement, occurred 
last Monday when the Tartan Grill in Skibo opened for
business. >
According to an informal 
Tartan public-opinion poll, the 
physical setup of the Grill still 
leaves something to be desired 
and service is slow in spots, 
but the food is good.
The most frequently-heard com­
ment of students entering the 
main floor of the Grill for the 
first time was, “My gosh, it’s just 
the same as it was before.” This 
exclamation usually referred to 
the oft criticized circular eating 
tables on the main floor. It had 
been previously announced in the 
Tartan that the renovation bud­
get did not allow for replace­
ment of existing furniture.
Mezzanine Yet to Come
Students are still anticipating 
the opening of the mezzainine and 
the lower-level recreation area.
Paul A. Planert, designer of the 
snack bar project, has submitted 
one plan which calls for a 
small television lounge, eating 
tables, and a bulletin board in 
the recreation area. The Student 
Union Committee of Student Gov­
ernment decided last Tuesday to 
ask Planert to draw up some 
alternate proposals.
No deadline for ultimate comple­
tion of the Grill has been given.
Furniture for the mezzanine has 
still not arrived.
Division of the serving coun­
ter into "hot food” and "cold
Tartan Photos by David Leavitt 
Opening-day crowds 
at Tartan Grill . . .
Tartan Photo by Lainie London
.... keep manager 
O. W. “Nubby” Burrell busy
food” areas has resulted in con­
gestion in the hot food line, 
but snack bar manager O. W. 
Burrell says service will get 
progressively better as the em­
ployees work out a “system” 
and get used to the new facil­
ities. Almost all the workers 
are part-time students, and 
“We’ve had to break in a new 
crew every day.”
Everyone seems to be happy 
with the food itself. Five-cent 
coffee and two-for-45 cent ham­
burgers are especially popular, 
and the water bagels are also 
very much in demand.
Highlander Plan 
Passes Senate
At a special meeting last 
Tuesday, the Student Union 
Committee of Student Sen­
ate approved a plan for re­
designing the Highlander 
Room of Skibo. In this 
plan, the long narrow room 
between the Ballroom and 
the Wherret Room would be 
divided into two levels. The 
bottom floor would be a 
lounge with sofas, television, 
and card tables; and the top 
floor would contain two ping- 
pong tables and two pool 
tables.
The new floor plans for the 
Highlander Boom were drawn 
last year by designer Paul A. 
Planert as part of a three-phase 
Skibo renovation project which 
includes the snack bar, the 
Highlander Room, and the Ski­
bo lobby.
Student Union Committee did 
not act on the Highlander Room 
plans last year. On a priority ba­
sis, they decided the snack bar 
should be worked on first.
The Highlander project has 
not been approved by the Ad­
ministration yet, and neither a 
cost estimate or timetable for 
construction has been worked 
out.
Sharon Rambo, chairman of the 
Union Committee, says the com­
mittee has approached R. D. 
Strathmeyer, vice-president for 
Business Affairs, about the proj­
ect. Mr. Strathmeyer referred the 
committee to George K. Brown, 
Dean of Student Affairs, for pre­
liminary approval, but Dean 
Brown said a proposal of this 
magnitude is beyond his jurisdic­
tion and referred them back to 
Business Affairs.
Education Center Begins 
With Million-Dollar Qrant
Carnegie Corporation of New York City has announced a one-million dollar grant 
to Carnegie Tech for the establishment of aCarnegie Education Center, a unique experi­
ment in educational research, teacher preparation, and educational service to the com­
munity. The Center will confer Master of Arts and Doctor of Arts degrees through the 
new College of Humanities and Social Sciences. Candidates for the MA will be admitted 
this fall. _____________________________________________________________
According to Professors Edwin 
Fenton and John H. Sandberg, 
who will' serve as Director and 
Assistant Director, respectively, 
“The Carnegie Education Center 
intends to undertake a coordinated 
group of innovative programs 
each of which attacks a key prob­
lem of American education. The 
structure is new and different 
and holds promise for many uni­
versities which desire to enter 
the field of professional educa­
tion without establishing a sepa­
rate college. The development of 
new degree programs at the Doc­
toral level will fill a pressing 
need stressed by several recent 
studies of graduate education, and 
the products resulting from ap­
plied research in the curriculum 
projects, both for students and for
Kaplan Ends 
Falk Series
Dr. Abraham Kaplan
Abraham Kaplan, professor of 
philosophy at the University of 
Michigan, will discuss “The Stu­
dent Movement and the Aims of 
Education” as the third in the 
series of Maurice Falk Lectures 
next Tuesday and Wednesday, De­
cember 13 and 14. Both lectures 
will be held at 4:30 pm in the 
auditorium of the Graduate School 
of Industrial Administration.
Professor Kaplan |holds PhD 
from the University of California 
(Los Angeles). He has been on 
the faculties of Harvard, Colum­
bia and UCLA where he was 
chairman of the philosophy^ de­
partment.
His writings include such books 
as The Conductor of Inquiry, 
American Ethics and Public Poli­
cy« The New World of Philoso­
phy, and Power and Society.
A past president of the Amer­
ican Philosophical Association, 
Pacific Division, he has received 
Guggenheim and Rockefeller Fel 
lowships. He is also a member of 
the national Hillel Commission 
and the holder of an honorary 
doctorate from the University of 
Judaism.
teachers, and have a marked ef­
fect on education.”
The center is needed, they 
say, because “our society needs 
new advanced-degree programs 
designed especially for teachers 
rather than for potential research 
specialists. American universities 
must experiment with new insti­
tutional arrangements for the 
graduate education of teachers.”
Unique Graduate Curriculum
The entirely new graduate pro­
gram for teachers, to be offered 
next year by Carnegie Tech with 
the help of the new Center, will 
involve two years of course work 
with a heavy concentration on 
subject-matter courses, a one se­
mester course in. cognitive pro­
cess, another in materials and 
methods of instruction, and an 
internship and resulting disser­
tation in one of Tech’s five cur­
riculum centers. Completion of 
the work would result in the 
awarding of a Doctor of Arts de­
gree from the new College of 
Humanities and Social Sciences of 
Carnegie University. It will differ 
from existing Ph.D. programs, 
which place heavy emphasis on 
research, and from Doctor of Edu­
cation degree programs in various 
subject-matter areas, which lay 
less stress on the mastery of the 
subject-matters themselves.
This new degree will call for 
the application of pure research 
in the process of human cogni­
tion (how man thinks) to applied 
research in curriculum develop­
ment. Beneath it will lie a solid 
background in subject-matter. In 
all cases, the implications of the 
pore and applied research and the 
subject-matter background will be 
immediately translated into the 
classroom during and after pre­
paration. In addition, the new pro­
gram calls for an applied doctoral 
dissertation involving curriculum 
development of a particular sub­
ject-matter for a particular group 
of students, which would be test­
ed and ultimately utilized in the 
classroom.
Grill Hours
Operating hours for the Tartan 
Grill were incorrectly quoted in 
last week’s Tartan.
Monday through Thursday, the 
Grill is open from 10 am to 1 
am. Grilled items are not sold 
after midnight on these days and 
no food is sold after 12:30 a.m.
Friday and Saturday, the Grill 
opens at 10 a.m. and closes at 
1:30 am. Grilled items are not 
sold after 12:30 am and no food 
is sold after 1 am.
Sunday, the Grill opens at noon 
and closes by the same schedule 
as Monday through Thursday 
nights.
With the help of the new Cen­
ter Carnegie Tech will also of­
fer a Ph.D. In Educational Ad­
ministration and a PhJD. Cur­
riculum and Evaluation.
A unique aspect of the program 
calls for each faculty member 
involved to have a joint appoint­
ment in the Center and in a sub­
ject department in one of the 
colleges or divisions at Carnegie 
Tech.
Five Divisions Contribute 
Central to the new organization 
will be five permanent curriculum 
development groups, each under 
a senior professor, who will be 
supported by Carnegie Corpora­
tion funds. These groups, led by 
senior professors Robert C. Slack, 
(English), Richard A. Moore, 
(mathematics), Orville M. Win- 
sand, (the fine arts), Hugh D. 
Young, (the natural sciences), and 
Edwin Fenton, (history), will de­
velop curriculum materials for 
high schools and colleges and 
community colleges or technical 
schools, whose special needs are 
not met by existing materials. 
The remainder of the Car­
negie Corporation funds will be 
used for student support, plan­
ning course, organizing special­
ized curriculum libraries, and 
establishing lines of communi­
cation to potential students. It 
is expected that the Center 
should become entirely self- 
supporting in a period of five 
years.
Policy for the Center will be 
made by an Administrative Board 
made up of the five senior pro­
fessors and the deans of Car- 
negie’s other schools and colleges. 
The first chairman of this Board 
will be Dean Erwin R. Steinberg. 
(Continued on Page 3)
Poetry Forum
Balladeer Judy Collins will pres­
ent an evening of “The Sung| 
Poem” for the International Poe­
try Forum on Wednesday, Decem­
ber 14, at 8:30 pm in Carnegie 
Music Hall, Oakland.
Tickets for the performance are 
now available at the bookstore 
and at Gimbel’s, Home’s and 
Kaufmann’s department stores.
<uiiiiiiaiiaiiiiiiiitiiiiiaiiaiiiiiaiiiHiii(Hiiiiiiiiiiiiiiii*it(fc
I CARNEGIE TECH 
JAZZ BAND = •
: ? Im
1 will present a concert
I i| at the Assembly in Skibo. | 
BALLROOM,s
I TUESDAY, DECEMBER 13th |? s
"taiiaHaiiauattaiiatiaittHaiiaiiaiia»aMa<iaiiaiiaiiaiiaii(Ma^

---------------------------------------------------

Page 2 — CARNEGIE TECH TARTAN — Wednesday, December 7, 1966
Ceilidh Brings Folk Artists 
To Tech For Friday Show
An evening of traditional ballads from Scotland and 
Appalachia will be the first in a series of six monthly folk 
music presentations to be sponsored in Pittsburgh by the 
Pittsburgh Folklore Society in conjunction with the Ceilidh 
Society at Carnegie Institute of Technology.
Scheduled for 8:30 pm, Friday,
Dec. 9, in the Wherrett Room of 
Skibo Student Center at Carne­
gie Tech, the concert will feature 
three outstanding performers: 
Norman Kennedy from Aberdeen, 
Scotland, one of the finest of 
Scotland’s young singers; Sara 
Grey from Philadelphia, a fea­
tured performer at the recent 
Philadelphia Folk Festival; and 
Peter Hoover, a renowned collec­
tor of traditional American mu­
sic and one of the area’s most 
versatile folk instrumentalists.
The concert will be a kind 
of “pilot” for the series of 
monthly evenings that will 
compose the Folklore Concert 
Series. Designed to explore 
various areas of folk music ac­
tivity, and to bring performers 
to Pittsburgh who could not 
otherwise be heard here, the 
series will present: the New 
Lost City Ramblers in concert, 
an evening of Negro gospel mu­
sic, a selection of films on folk 
music, a leeture-demonstration 
of traditional singing styles by 
folklorist Ken Goldstein, and 
a concert of the best of Pitts­
burgh’s folk musicians. Full de­
tails on the series and on how 
to purchase tickets will be re­
leased at the time of the “pi­
lot” concert.
The similarities — and differ­
ences—in the British and Ameri­
can ballad traditions will be 
well illustrated by the pairing 
of Norman Kennedy and Sara 
Grey in a single concert.
Scottish Folk Style 
Considered in Britain to be the 
most outstanding of the young 
Scotch singers, Norman Kenne­
dy won a host of American ad­
mirers through his appearances 
at the 1965 and 1966 Newport 
Folk Festivals. His singing bears 
the stamp of both the Gaelic and 
Lowland Scots traditions, and his
Priest To Speak
A British priest, the Rev. 
Thomas Corbishley, will be on 
campus this Sunday to discuss 
“The New Catholicism . . . Are 
You a Thinker or a Catholic?” 
He will hold an open discussion 
at 5 pm Sunday in the Wherret 
Room of Skibo.
The Rev. Mr. Corbishley was 
master of Campion Hall at Ox­
ford University and Rector of the 
Farm Street Church in London. 
He is now on a lecture of the 
United States, and is visiting 
Pittsburgh under the auspices of 
St. Paul’s Cathedral.
His writings include Religion is 
Reasonable, Humanist and Christ- 
tian, and Roman Catholicism.
style was molded through his 
close friendship with two sing­
ers who are regarded almost as 
legends in Scotland: Jeanie Rob­
ertson of Aberdeen and the late 
Annie Johnston of Barre.
Singing is not the folk are Ken 
nedy has mastered. He can take 
wool through every step of its 
traditional processing from the 
sheep’s back to the suit, and he 
makes his own wines and home 
brews. His occupation while not 
on tour is the somewhat more 
(Continued on Page 6)
WHY ARE THERE SO MANY
YOUNG FACES 
AT HEWLETT-PACKARD 
MANAGEMENT MEETINGS?
Responsibility— real responsibility— comes quickly 
at Hewlett-Packard. Where you find responsibility, 
you find achievement, advancement. It’s that simple.
Hewlett-Packard, a world leader in industrial, 
scientific and medical instrumentation, is growing 
rapidly. Some of our management-minded young 
men with particular interests specialize early in such 
areas as marketing, finance, manufacturing and sys­
tems design, where they move ahead quickly. Many 
choose a broader look at how a multi-million dollar 
electronics corporation functions, and gather man­
agement experience in various key areas. Either 
way, advancement at HP comes rapidly because 
opportunity pervades an atmosphere of growth.
Key positions are available £t our corporate head­
quarters near San Francisco, and at other HP 
divisions in California, Colorado, Massachusetts, 
Pennsylvania and New Jersey. Come in and talk 
to the HP executives who’ll be interviewing at 
Carnegie Tech on December 14. It may turn out to 
be your first Hewlett-Packard management meeting. 
An equal opportunity employer.
HEWLETT JlB) PACKARD
Tech’s First ROTC WAC 
Enjoys Military Activities
ROTC has gone WACy; and literally so. Carnegie Tech 
has a girl enrolled in the Reserve Officer Training Corp. 
The girl, Mary Olds, is a freshman in painting and design. 
Although not the first girl ever to participate in ROTC, 
she is the first one at Tech.
Mary will not get any credit 
from the Army for her ROTC 
work, but it will be “good experi­
ence.” Mary’s interest in the 
Women’s Army Corp stems from 
her sister who is in the WACs 
stationed in France. Asked wheth­
er she will continue for the full 
four years, Mary said she is go­
ing to decide year by year.
Mary came to be in ROTC after 
she expressed interest in it at 
the activities fair. She was asked 
to stop in at the Military De­
partment office and from there 
she was in the program. Agree­
ment on her signing up was mu­
tual.
Possibility of Commission
If Mary does find the military 
life to her liking, she will have 
the opportunity of going into a 
WAC officer program prior to 
her senior year. If accepted, she 
will be paid $317.71 a month dur­
ing her senior year. When she 
signs up for this program she 
will assume a two year obliga­
tion in the United States Army 
Reserve. The time spent in school 
is applied toward this obligation 
although the student does not 
participate in any WAC activ­
ities. Participants must apply for 
a commission in the WACs six 
months prior to graduation. If ac­
cepted, she will, on graduation 
be commissioned a second lieu­
tenant in the USAR and will as­
sume a full two-year obligation.
If not accepted, the student is 
discharged from the reserve and 
all obligation ends. If a partici­
pant fails to apply for a commis­
sion she must finish her years 
as an enlisted woman.
Asked what good a fine arts 
background would have in the 
Army, Mary explained that 
many areas would be open to 
her where she could apply her 
talents. Among these areas 
would be the preparation of 
WAC publications.
Mary participates in all ROTC 
activities including drilling with 
arms, although she does not 
march on Thursdays in common 
hour with the entire brigrade.
According to Lt. Col. Peter Accor-
MS&SS
wwgiSS®® <<•/-
Tartan Photo by Eric Feldman 
Cadet Mary Olds
Tech's first WAC
tij assistant Professor of Military 
Science, it would be a little dif­
ficult to put Mary in one com­
pany or another. For this reason, 
Mary has been made assistant 
brigrade adjutant with the rank 
of private.
A Few Troubles
Private Olds says that she still 
has a little trouble handling the 
Ml riflle. The weapon weighs 
about 10 pounds and it tends to 
throw her off balance in going 
from right shoulder to left should­
er. Also she has difficulty per­
forming inspection arms. The 
movement, which is done just 
prior to dismissal, requires the 
operating rod handle to be push­
ed back and the chamber in­
spected. The spring in the weap­
on is a little strong and will not 
yield to Mary’s hand. Mary says 
that she has gotten help from 
Col. William Crocker, the Pro­
fessor of Military Science. She 
holds the weapon and he pushes 
back on the operating rod han­
dle. Private Olds is hopeful, how­
ever, that she will be able to 
(Continued on Page 6)
i^rlu Pittsburgh Folklore* Society' Carnegie Ceilidh present
a concert of traditional ballads
jrom Scotland ^’^ppalachia
‘with Norman Kennedy Aberdeen, Scotland 
Sara Grey and Peter R. Hoover
Friday. December p th ipt>0 at8:}o pm 
'Whtmtt Rw. Skibo. Carnegie Infhtutr of Technology
tickets ^l.^O tax ine, at University ofPittsburgh ßook Center 
or telephone 621 -073.2 
rWateh tor tutin e announcement]! of'Folkloir Society Concerts

---------------------------------------------------

Wednesday, December 7, 1966 - CARNEGIE TECH TARTAN - Page 3
Four Students 
Aid High School 
Musical Show
Four Tech students, Vin­
cent Corrigan, Larry Miller, 
Ted Woods, and John Figola 
are involved in the produc­
tion of a musical put on each 
year by the students at Cen­
tral Catholic High School.
This year the students present 
their version of Little Mary Sun­
shine, a musical by Rich Besoyan. 
Written in the 1950’s, it is a satire 
on the Nelson Eddy-Jeannette 
McDonald movies of the ’30’s.
Vincent Corrigan, a subsenior 
music major, composed hew bal­
let music for the show and re­
arranged many of the songs to 
make them easier for the per­
formers. He also rearranged the 
score to fit the band that was 
available. The original music was 
written for a string orchestra. 
Larry Miller, a graduate drama 
student, designed and supervised 
the making of the sets. Ted 
Woods designed the costumes, 
and John Figola was in charge 
of lighting.
Central Request
Asked why he got involved in 
the production, Corrigan explain­
ed that he has been involved in 
their annual musical since his 
senior year in high school. Cor­
rigan graduated from Central 
and was a member of the band. 
In his freshman and sophomore 
years at Tech he returned and 
volunteered his services. This 
year, officials at Central asked 
Corrigan and the three others to 
return and help in the produc-. 
tion.
“Kids here are enthusiastic 
about this kind of work, and 
they are doing their best,” 
said Corrigan. The school pro­
vided money for sets and cos­
tumes.
Corrigan added that he is gain­
ing valuable experience in deal­
ing with high school students. 
He hopes to go into education up­
on graduation. An understanding 
of the psychology of a teenager 
is a basic requirement of a good 
teacher, according to Corrigan.
The performance of Little Mary 
Sunshine will be on Dec. 11 at 
8:30 pm at Central Catholic High 
School in Oakland. Joe Leonardo, 
a graduate of Tech ,is directing 
the show.Education...
(Continued from Page 1) 
Center Furthers Reputation
Carnegie Tech’s experience in 
curriculum development has al­
ready won it a national reputa­
tion in the field. Tech organized 
the conference to launch Project 
English for the U.S. Office of Edu­
cation, and also organized a sec­
ond conference in which Project 
English and Project Social Studies 
made their initial reports. Tech 
also serves as a center for cur­
riculum development in English, 
the social studies, and the fine 
arts, with support from the Of­
fice of Education, and in mathe­
matics and the natural sciences, 
with support from the National 
Science Foundation and the A. 
W. Mellon Educational and Chari­
table Trust. Erwin Steinberg, 
Dean of Margaret College and 
the Division of Humanities and 
Social Sciences, was national coor- 
dinator of Project English during 
1963-64. In addition, the university 
was a pioneeer in the develop­
ment of courses for the advarced- 
Placement program which are now 
U>ing taught in hundreds of schools 
throughout the nation.
Students Offered 
Pol. Sci. Seminars 
In Washington
A credit seminar in political 
science for students who hold 
summer jobs in Washington, D.C. 
is being sponsored by the National 
Student YMCA and YWCA in 1967.
Known as the Washington Citi­
zenship Seminar, the course of­
fers three credit hours through 
the Graduate School of the De­
partment of Agriculture, and will 
include interviews and discussions 
will top governmental and practical 
leaders. It will focus on the bases 
for governmental decision-making, 
and is open to sophomores and 
above.
Acceptance into the seminar is 
contingent upon placement in a 
job. in Washington for the sum­
mer. Participants in the past have 
held three types of positions: (1) 
internships in Congressional of­
fices, for which one should apply 
directly to one’s Senator or Rep­
resentative; (2) Civil Service 
positions; and (3) jobs in non-gov­
ernmental agencies.
For Civil Service jabs one must 
apply to take an examination by 
January 9, 1967, which will be 
given on February 4. Applications 
should be made at the Pittsburgh 
Post Office.
Full details on the seminar 
may be obtained at the Campus 
Y Offce, 57 Skibo, or from Ron 
Livak of ATO, who participated 
in it last summer.
MAL DOMINY
(B.S.E.E.) of the 
Bethlehem Steel Loop 
Course knows where the 
action is. He’s an 
electrical engineer at the 
world’s most 
modern steel plant 
—our Burns Harbor Plant 
in northern Indiana.
Join the action.
First step: pick up 
a copy of "Careers 
with Bethlehem Steel 
and the Loop Course” 
at your placement 
office. Then sign up 
for a campus interview.
Our 1967 Loop Class 
has openings for technical 
and non-technical graduates 
(and post-grads) for 
careers in steel operations, 
research, sales, mining, 
accounting, and other 
activities.
An Equal Opportunity Employer in the Plans for Progress Program
BETHLEHEM 
STEEL
STEEL
Avco/MSD 
The pathway 
to a real 
challenge.
ENGINEERING OPPORTUNITIES
for Senior and Graduate Engineers
The Missile Systems Division of the Avco Corporation has been a major developer 
of Re-entry Vehicles since 1955. Through the years, our organization has designed 
and developed re-entry vehicles for the Atlas, Titan and Minuteman Intercontinen­
tal Ballistic Missiles. Today’s projects include advanced penetration aids, advanced 
re-entry vehicles, vulnerability and hardening, tactical missile systems and other 
technical programs.
Opportunities for current and future graduates 
exist in the following areas:
MECHANICAL 
ENGINEERING & 
AERODYNAMICS
• Mechanical Design
• Thermodynamics
• Heat Transfer
• Structural Design
• Aerodynamics
ELECTRICAL 
ENGINEERS
• Electronic Systems
• Telemetry & 
Instrumentation
• Electromechanical Systems
MATHEMATICS
• Applied Mathematics
• Scientific Math Analysis
• Scientific & Engineering Programing
• Flight Test Data 
Reduction Programing
• Systems Program & 
Analysis
PHYSICS & SCIENCES
• Material Development
• Thermal Properties
• Aerophysics
• Plasma Research
• Ionospheric Physics
• Microbiology
Other positions exist in Systems Engineering, Reliability & Safety Engineering, 
Advanced Systems & Penetration Aids and Flight Test & Evaluation.
In addition to a liberal benefit program, our Educational Aid Policy is among the 
finest in industry today. In this program, participants are permitted eight (8) hours 
a week to attend school without a reduction in pay. The complete cost of registra­
tion, tuition, laboratory fees and one-half the cost of the text books are included.
The proximity of our facilities to the educational institutions in Boston and Cam­
bridge makes this a highly attractive program to members of our technical staff.
Avco/MSD representatives will be on
CAMPUS
Friday, Dec. 9
AVCO CORPORATION 
MISSILE SYSTEMS DIVISION
201 LOWELL STREET, WILMINGTON. MASSACHUSETTS 01807
An equal opportunity employer.

---------------------------------------------------

Page 4 — CARNEGIE TECH TARTAN — Wednesday, December 7, 1966
Editorial . . .
Pseudo - Freedom
Havings eliminated curfews and permitted off-campus 
apartments for upperclass women, should Carnegie Tech 
attempt to dictate how these women spend their time? 
Should the school outline a moral code for them to follow?
Junior and senior women met last week, at the request 
of the Association of Women Students, to defend their par­
entally-approved no-curfew and apartment privileges. A 
complaint, voiced by the Administration through AWS, 
stated that students have shown a “lack of responsibility.” 
It was precipitated by a request that juniors be permitted 
to live in off-campus dwellings next year. (Current regula­
tions were instituted last spring on a year’s trial basis in 
the hope that they would encourage the development of 
responsibility.)
This complaint was “supported” by several specific 
examples. Certainly, those very few women arrested by 
city police in the early hours of the morning showed a 
need for closer supervision. Because they demonstrated 
such irresponsibility, it was to their benefit and to the bene­
fit of Carnegie Tech’s reputation in the community, that 
the AWS Judicial Council suspend their privileges. But 
should the criminal offenses—likely to have occurred sim­
ilarly even with curfew restrictions—of so small a minor­
ity result in the “punishment” of all Carnegie Tech women ?
Other criticism was directed at those women ac­
cused of locking their doors to avoid participation in 
the 2 am pseudo-fire drills. Certainly this seeming lack 
of maturity on the part of a few students is not an 
adequate criterion for “enforcing” responsibility by 
reinstating curfews. In fact this whole problem can be 
remedied quite easily by issuing master keys to the 
fire marshalls, who can then check each room, insuring 
that all women are out of the dorm.
The Administration also points to calls from irate 
landlords complaining of all-night guests, assumed to be 
Carnegie Tech women. But should the school equate social 
conventionality with responsibility?
While parents have given these women their free- 
dom, they needn’t have. The women have freely chosen 
to live certain kinds of lives, within the legality of city 
regulations. Some members of the community condone 
them, others condemn them. Under these circum­
stances the women should be discreet, informed of 
community criticisms perhaps. But who has the right 
to pass moral judgment on their actions—certainly not 
the Administration!
It is the responsibility of the landlords concerned to 
.confront their tenants personally, not lobby for tightened 
regulations so that they can continue to collect under more 
“desirable” conditions.
In supporting more liberal regulations for its women 
students, Carnegie Tech is giving those whose parents con­
sider them capable, the opportunity to make more of their 
own decisions. At 20 and 21 years of age, this surely en­
hances the maturing process and nourishes a sense of re­
sponsibility.
If the school must control its students by forceful 
measures, such as women’s curfews, and further, if 
the school refuses to grant responsibilities to the vast 
majority of students who are mature enough to accept 
them, then Carnegie Tech is not the modern institu­
tion it claims to be. Moreover, the totality of one’s 
education includes experiencing and accepting respon­
sibility to oneself and one’s society. If such strict 
measures are demanded by the Division of Student 
Affairs, then the school is woefully neglecting an im­
portant aspect of the educational experience.
The Administration must not be hypocritical. When it 
assumes the liberal guise, it must be modem enough to ac­
cept the decisions, and the resulting consequences, that its 
students make, not to dictate what should be the results 
of these decisions.
_carnegle tech_TARTAIM
RICHARD G. SEXTRO 
Editor-In-Chief
Executive Editor................................................SUE ATTINSON
Managing Editor............................................ERIC FELDMANN
Business Manager..............................................JUDf BIRKEN
Desk Editor........................................................BRUCE GELIN
News Editor............................................Mike Varga
Sports Editor............................................Larry Sikon
Photography Editor..................................John Mera
Local Advertising Manager..................Joan Jaques
National Advertising Manager.......Patricia Bowman
Layout Editor .....................................Laura Seidler
Secretarial Editor.................................Diane Cushing
Circulation and Layout Advisor............Dave Rodgers
Printing Production Manager.^....Harvey A. Shapiro
Printing Production Staff: Henrik Lind, Barbara Motet, Barbara Wander. 
Executive Attiifantt: Candy Etfcin, E. W. Seley.
Newt Staff: Elaine Bearer, Tim Brendel, Linda Cameron, Jeff Evant, Ellen Levine, 
Richard Morrison, Diane Samuelt, Joanne Schneider, Louite 
Schwerin, Jeanne Siegel, Rich Steffent, Joan Sztyga, Selina Wang, 
Linda Wenzei, Carol Nittenton, David Landtberger, Camille 
Badzgon.
Annual Subscription Rate: $3.00 
Second Class Pottage Paid at Pittsburgh, Pa.
Represented for national advertising by National Advertising, Inc.
Vocalist Cass 
Gives Concert
Lee Cass, assistant professor of 
music at Carnegie Tech, makes 
his faculty debut tonight at 8:30 
in a concert presented by the 
College of Fine Arts at Carnegie 
Lecture Hall in Oakland. He will 
be accompanied by Harry Frank­
lin, associate professor of music 
at Carnegie Tech.
Mr. Cass, a bass baritone, has 
held featured roles in opera and 
musical comedy as well as having 
been soloist with the Pittsburgh 
and Boston Symphonies and the 
Symphony of the Air.
Included in the program will 
be numbers by Schubert, Schu­
mann, Mahler, Mozart, Noussorg- 
sky, and Virgil Thompson. He 
will also perform a unique selec­
tion of African folk songs in their 
original dialects.
Mr. Cass hold a B.S. and M.S. 
from the Julliard School of Mu­
sic. He made his Town Hall De­
but as a winner of the Walter 
W. Naumburg Award.
Y Examines 
Views of CO’s
“A CO is not a chicken, 
nor a saint. Rather, he is a 
person with legally recog­
nized convictions about vio­
lence and wars.”
On this premise, Tech’s YMCA 
is sponsoring a program next 
Wednesday, Dec. 14, to clarify 
the issue of conscientious objec­
tors. The program will start at 
7:30 pm in Skibo 105. It is free 
of charge to the college commun­
ity.
The program is not intended 
to talk of the moral issues in­
volved in pacifism. Instead, it 
will be informative on the per­
sonal and legal aspects of be­
ing a conscientious objector.
The meeting is designed for 
students who (1) are considering 
applying for CO status and would 
like an opportunity to compare 
Uieir personal views with a CO; 
(2) are interested in the legality 
of obtaining CO status, and (3) 
are just curious about the sub­
ject of conscientious objection.
Speaking will be Tom Huff, 
past Cal Tech YMCA Director, 
now with Carnegie Tech’s Y; Tom 
Kerr, Professor of Law, from 
GSIA; and Paul Parkinson, an 
alumnus (’63, Arch.), a CO who 
secved a term of alternative serv­
ice for the American Friends 
Service Committee.
C/C Orchestra Opens Year 
With Works By Thompson
The Carnegie College/Community Orchestra will give 
animation to three tone pictures by composer Virgil Thom­
son at a concert Sunday, Dec. 11, in Carnegie Music Hall, 
Oakland.
The free program, at 8:30 pm, launches the fifth sea­
son for the orchestra. It is directed by Sidney Harth, head 
of Carnegie Tech’s music department.
---------------------------------------------------- Mr. Thomson’s tone pictures
Tech Students 
To Discuss 
City Problems
Thirteen Tech students will 
get a first-hand look at the 
problems of urbanization at 
the eighth quadrennial Na­
tional Student Assembly of 
the YMCA and YWCA in 
Chicago from Dec. 27 to Jan. 
2. The theme of the Assemb­
ly is “Urbanization: Discov­
er, Understand, Celebrate the 
City.”
Delegates will hear seminars 
on social and political problems 
in the American city and go out 
into Chicago to observe living 
conditions and visit community 
organizations.
Keynote speaker for the as­
sembly will be British socio-eco­
nomist Robert Theobald. Theo­
bald is an outspoken advocate of 
the guaranteed annual wage and 
co-author of The Triple Revolu­
tion. Jesse Jackson and James 
Bevel, aides to Dr. Martin Luther 
King, will also work with the 
delegates, as will several city and 
state politicians from the Chi­
cago area.
Oscar Brown, Jr. and the Rev. 
Malcolm Boyd, author of Are You 
Running with Me, Jesus? will 
conduct religious services.
Tech students attending the 
conference are Ray Morse, Mitch 
Nugent, Tom Cowan, Ron Ldv- 
ak, Ken Kauffman, Orwin 
Youngquist, Krishnahadi Pri- 
badi, Jay Earley, Mike Vargo, 
Camille Badzgon, Barb Blaisdell, 
Stefanie Gross, and Ruth Wein­
berger. Tom Huff, Director of 
the Tech YMCA, and Dorothy 
Graves, Director of Tech YWCA, 
will also attend.
Huff plans “some sort of fol­
low-up” on the assembly after 
the delegates return to campus. 
“We’d like to bring the problems 
of urbanization to the attention 
of the campus,” he says, “and try 
to evoke some comment on it.”
Students Meet Applicants 
In New Interview Program
Undergraduate students will contact prospective Car­
negie Tech freshmen in a new program being instituted by 
the Admission Office. This informal contact program, de­
signed to give Tech applicants a “student’s-eye view” of 
Carnegie, will hopefully start over the Christmas vacation. 
Students who participate will be assigned applicants in 
their home-town areas for meetings and discussions.
It is hoped that these inter­
views will help Tech attract 
the best - suited students for 
next year’s freshman class by 
giving them an opportunity to 
find out about facets of the 
school not covered in the cata­
log or interviews with admis­
sions officers. Also, many ques­
tions that parents often ask 
could be answered directly on 
an informal basis.
Tech students interested in this 
program can contact Mr. David 
Masoner in the Admissions Of­
fice on the first floor of Warner 
Hall. They will be under no obli­
gation to report back to the Ad­
missions Office after making their 
contacts. According to Earle 
Swank, Dean of Men, and Vir­
ginia Milligan, Dean of Women, 
contacts made by fraternity or 
sorority members will not be 
construed as “dirty” rush.
Drama Holds 
Open Workshop
The Department of Drama at 
Carnegie Tech invites all mem­
bers of the academic community 
to participate in “Workshop 323,” 
a class devoted to developing new 
scripts. The department is inter­
ested in obtaining volunteers to 
act in and rehearse these scripts. 
If you wish to work with “323” 
projects, please contact the dra­
ma office and leave your name, 
address and phone number.
are entitled “The Seine at Night,” 
“Wheat Field at Noon,” and “Sea 
Piece with Birds.” The Pulitizer 
Prize-winning composer is teach­
ing at Tech as a Visiting Andrew 
Mellon Professor of Music.
Another selection on the pro­
gram is “Sinfonietta Flamenca” 
by Carlos Surinach. Mr. Surinach, 
noted for his Spanish-style com­
positions, is at Tech this semester 
as a Visiting Professor of Music. 
“Sinfonietta Flamenca” was com­
missioned in the mid-1950’s by 
the Louisville (Ky.) Philharmon­
ic Orchestra, whose concert mas­
ter and assistant conductor at 
that time was Mr. Harth.
The third work to be per­
formed Sunday will be Mahler’s 
Fourth Symphony. Featured 
will be soprano soloist Mazzelle 
Sykes, holder of the Heinz Fel­
lowship for 1966-67, who is 
working toward her master’s 
degree in music at Tech.
Guest composers Thomson and 
Surinach will be present at the 
concert.
The College/Community Or­
chestra, with more than 100 mem­
bers this year, was formed to 
provide the best possible orches­
tral repertory for Tech music stu­
dents and to serve Pittsburgh 
with an outlet for the many cap­
able amateurs and professionals 
who desire participation in such 
an ensemble.
Underground Films
A group of. award-winning ex­
perimental and underground films 
will be shown next Wednesday, 
December 14, at 4, 7, and 9 pm 
in the Wherrett Room. Admission 
will be 75 cents.
Films to be shown include Ken­
neth Anger’s “Scorpio Rising;” 
“Mario Banana,” by Andy War­
hol; “Oh Dem Watermelons,” by 
Robert Nelson; “Dance Chroma­
tic,” by Ed Emshwiller; “Magi­
cian," by Poland’s Semifor Films; 
“It’s About This Carpenter,” by 
the NYU Film Group; “Dance of 
Love,” by Peter Weiner, and the 
classic Salvador Dali-Luis Buñuel 
film, “Un Chien Andalou.”
With the exception of the Dali- 
Bunuel and Anger works, this 
will be the first Pittsburgh show­
ing for these films.
Lincoln Speech
Evelyn Lincoln, personal secre­
tary to the President Kennedy, 
will speak in Synod Hall in Oak­
land tomorrow night at 8:15 pm 
Mrs. Lincoln is the author of the 
widely - read book, My Twelve 
Years with John F. Kennedy.
Her lecture, free to the pub­
lic, is the second in a seasonal 
series sponsored by the Univer­
sity Catholic Club. Synod Hall is 
located at the rear of St. Paul’s 
Cathedral at Fifth Avenue and 
Craig Street in Oakland.
Marine Interviews
Captain Frank W. Tuckwiller of 
the Marines Officer Selection Of­
fice in Pittsburgh is on campus 
today to interview and test stu­
dents who wish to receive a com­
mission in the United States 
Marines Corps. Interviews and 
testing are being conducted in 
the hallway of Baker Hall.

---------------------------------------------------

Wednesday, December 7, 1966 — CARNEGIE TECH TARTAN — Page 5
Playhouse Faces Closing; 
$300,000 Needed By Sat.
by Mike Vargo
The Pittsburgh Playhouse, this city’s only professional repertory theater, is fac­
ing bankruptcy. Unless $300,000 can be raised by the end of the week (it may already have 
been raised since The Tartan went to press, but this is quite doubtful), the Playhouse 
will close its door Saturday night, leaving two-thirds of this season’s productions for­
ever unproduced.
William H. Hood, president of 
the Playhouse Executive Board, 
explained the financial crisis at a 
press conference the Friday be­
fore last. The major causes were 
“disappointing” attendance fig­
ures for the spring and summer 
presentations, and the failure of 
local business corporations and 
foundations to contribute to a 
summer fund-raising campaign.
“The Mad Show,” presented 
at the Playhouse this summer, 
failed to draw audiences des­
pite favorable critical reaction 
and enthusiastic support from 
the news media. (“The Mad 
Show” moved from Pittsburgh 
to Chicago, where it is now a 
runaway hit. Its originally 
scheduled ten-week run has 
been extended to 34 weeks.)
The summer fund-raising cam­
paign, aimed at raising $450,000 
to support new director John 
Hancock and his company (see 
interview below), drew $150,000 
from the A. W. Mellon Educa­
tional and Charitable Trust and 
$50,000 from the Sarah Mellon 
Scaife Foundation.
The campaign to raise money 
from industry “failed to produce 
any results.” Quoting directly 
from a Playhouse press release, 
“The majority of the corpora­
tions expressed their belief in 
the fact that the Playhouse made 
a contribution to the community 
which was important to the busi­
ness of the area, but they felt 
they, as corporations, could not 
support this kind of a project.” 
That is a polite way of saying 
that the Playhouse doesn’t do 
enough to drum up “business” in 
the city.
The current season is not draw­
ing well either. Hancock’s first 
three productions — A Man’s a 
Man, A Streetcar Named Desire, 
and a “black” version of A Mid­
summer Night’s Dream—have all 
been controversial. The theatre- 
going public has played it safe 
and stayed away.
All this, added to the fact 
that the Playhouse has been 
losing money steadily for the 
last seven years, spells liquida­
tion.
A crash movement, headed by 
Theodore L. Hazlett, Jr. and Mrs. 
Leon Falk, Jr., has been initiated 
to deal with the crisis. They 
have instituted some economics 
in operating methods, like open­
ing the exclusive Playhouse Club 
to the public. Several members of 
the club are throwing “benefit” 
parties and soliciting informally 
from friends.
But these are all small-scale 
measures. It is. unfortunate that 
local business corporations have 
no way of channeling some of 
their funds into a “kind of a proj­
ect” like the Playhouse, for un­
less the Playhouse can come up 
with a few large donations, Pitts­
burgh will watch television and 
drive-in movies next year.
Tartan Interview
John Hancock Discusses 
Theater Views And Plans
by Tim Bay
Since his precocious undergraduate days at Harvard, 
John Hancock has earned a name for himself as one of the 
most resourceful and talented of the young directors 
around. He was barely out of Harvard when he directed a 
production of Brechts’ A Man’s a Man off Broadway, that 
is still considered by many one of the most successful Amer­
ican productions of Brecht.
For several months, Mr. Han­
cock has been “artistic director”
John Hancock ... a bit of 
constructive sadism.
of a new professional resident 
company at the Pittsburgh Play­
house. Specifically, he has direct­
ed here a striking production of 
A Man’s a Man modeled after the 
New York production, and an 
“Unshakespearean,” “Freudian” 
one of Midsummer Night’s Dream. 
The last production was “news­
worthy” for, among other things, 
a 6’4” man impersonating an 
Amazon Queen; Disneyesque for­
est creatures that, at one point, 
seemed to reach out into the audi­
ence; and last, but not least, a 
jukebox that incongrously play­
ed classical music.
Origins of Shakespeare
Talking about this last produc­
tion in his office at the Play­
house, Mr. Hancock admitted that 
he was influenced by Jan Kott’s 
book, Shakespeare Our Contem­
porary. After acknowledging this 
debt, Hancock went on to say, 
“But I think Kott has gone over­
board—that is with the eroticism 
and darkness. I tried to find what 
was right in it and have no pre­
occupations with death and sick­
ness.” He admitted that A Man’s 
a Man had received mixed reac­
tions—“They were very strong, 
50-50 . . . but both reactions were 
violent.”
A tall, dark-haired man in 
his twenties, Mr. Hancock talk­
ed with enthusiam and author­
ity. As to Brecht’s treatment by 
Broadway, Mr. Hancock had 
nothing but scorn. “Very speci­
fically in Mother Courage they 
did it without a Mother Cour­
age . . . Ann Bancroft was too 
young and the director was 
wrong.”
As explanation for Brecht’s pop­
ularity with the young, Hancock 
gave the fact that “he [Brecht] 
appeals to a kind of dissatisfac­
tion in the young. Bentley was 
right in a way, for Brecht in his 
violence is appealing to aggres­
sive people .... people with 
bottled aggression.” He said that 
there had been no fundamental 
changes made between his New
York and Pittsburgh productions 
or Man’s a Man.
Admires Albee
About playwrights, Hancock said 
that he admired Edward Albee. 
“He writes fabulous dialog 
really great. Virginia Woolf is a 
good play except the story about 
the son is too much like James 
Joyce. Tiny Alice, on the other 
hand, was just terrible.”
The relationship of politics 
and theatre arose in our discus­
sion of Brecht. “I think theatre 
is very concerned with the so­
cial thing. Brecht is weakest 
when he lays it on the line, its 
impact is lost. When they sing 
the hymn in praise of the Soviet 
Union, it’s not the song but the 
aggressive fact of doing it.”
I asked him as a director 
what would be an “ideal” proj­
ect that he would like to stage 
someday. Half seriously, he an­
swered, “A production of An­
thony and Cleopatra—I think 
that I would cast Karl Malden 
as Anthony and Zoe Caldwell 
as Cleopatra.”
He went on to say that he was 
very interested in doing movies 
and that he had made a couple 
shorts before in San Francisco. 
“I would like to make a movie 
of Brighter Than a Thousand 
Nights (a novel tracing the de­
velopment of the Atomic Bomb) 
but most of all I want to make 
a movie set on a campus.”
Hancock expressed little hope 
for, and interest in, the future 
of Broadway. “I don’t think 
there’s much hope for Broad­
way—it’s really dying. There’s 
only one area of the whole pro­
fession that’s improving and 
that’s resident professional the­
atre.” As far as the financial 
problems of the Playhouse, Han­
cock said he really didn’t know 
how much money had been 
raised, but if it closes, he went 
on to say, he was considering 
an offer to direct a show off 
Broadway next year. ‘1 may 
try to move Midsummer Night’s 
Dream to New York, but it 
would work best in London.
As a closing question, I thought 
it might be interesting to hear 
what qualities he thought it takes 
to make a good director. “It 
takes, of course, natural talent, a 
desire to control people,” he 
paused, “and, with that, a little 
bit of constructive sadism, and 
even a little voyeurism.” He stop­
ped, and concluded, “It’s like a 
calling. You must say to yourself, 
well, that’s what I want to do.”
There’s no doubt in my mind 
that John Hancock has found his 
calling, just as there is no doubt 
that Mr. Hancock is obviously a 
director who is going places.
In The Summertime
by Stan Thomas
For those who wish it were summer again, I recommend Bruce 
Brown’s The Endless Summer now being shown at the Manor Theatre 
in Squirrel Hill. This film about surfing confronts its audience with 
the problem of finding the perfect wave and follows two surfers 
arounds the world in search of such a wave. This search may well 
be a modern epic, a Twentieth Century Odyssey.
THE HEROES OF THIS ODYSSEY, Mike Kinson and Robert
August, are not the beach-bum type, but the All-American male— 
not Adonises, but the type of guy you went to high school with who 
was probably on the football team. These guys are not only the 
heroes of this film, but of the American dream. They are free to 
travel around the world without really worrying about money. They 
make friends wherever they go and, in fact, introduce surfing to 
the locals of the African Gold Coast. They acquire women when 
wanted with the ease of acquiring an even sun-tan. Their quest is 
for that perfect wave, which they find at the Cape of St. Francis 
on the coast of South Africa.
The film itself is easy to watch. The narration by Bruce Brown 
is in the Bill Cosby, I Spy school of humor. The color photography, 
also by Bruce Brown, is as glossy as a spread in Life Magazine. In 
many ways, the film reminds me of the minute epics that try to 
sell us new cars or a new mouthwash. Only The Endless Summer 
is selling us youth, adventure, and surfing.
NOW THAT THE COLD WEATHER has set in, I would say the 
quickest route to at least two hours of summer would be a trip to 
see Endless Summer. Anyway, it’s cheaper than a trip to Florida.
* * • •
The Bruce Brown film originates in California, and so did John 
Hancock’s production of A Midsummer Night's Dream. I wonder if 
it could have originated anyplace else. The theatre is the most con­
servative art form, probably because it depends directly on a given 
actor acting at a specific moment. Theatre is also based on language 
and as soon as language is abstracted beyond the point of compre­
hension and meaning, the essence of theatre is lost. All this is to say 
that a pop art play will probably never be written. This does not 
preclude a pop art version of an existing play.
THREE YEARS AGO, the San Francisco Ballet produced a new 
work which was billed as a Pop Art Ballet. The result was con­
temporary quasi-classic ballet danced against Pop Art decor. How 
does one dance pop art? John Hancock has done much the same 
thing with this Midsummer Night’s Dream. Only this time the ques­
tion is, how do you act pop art? In neither case has the question 
been answered and whether or not the respective artistic directors 
were wise in bringing it up in the first place is left to conjecture. 
From what has been reproduced at the Playhouse, my reaction is 
that the Dream is still partially unrealized.
As the curtain goes up, Mendlessohn’s “Incidental Music to a 
Midsummer Night’s Dream” is heard, the Wedding March, in fact. 
However, on stage, the tableau is of a wagonload of plague victims 
being carted off to the charnel house. This is supposed to be ironic. 
It also sets the mood for the rest of the production. Although to most 
people this play by Sheakespeare is all sweetness and light, Mr. 
Hancock has decided to let some of the bright show. Mendlessohn’ls 
music is replaced by Mahler’s Das Lied Von Der Erde; the faeries by 
oversized insects and demons operated by a chorus shrouded in 
black. What cannot be replaced is Shakespeare’s dialog, and seen 
under the black light of this production, it is often as grotesque. This 
is not a high school drama club production of Shakespeare; this is 
adult theatre.
The fact is that most Elizabethan plays are about lust and illicit 
sex and bestial cravings. The real joke on Titania is not that Bottom’s 
head is that of an ass, but that it is only his head. The clowns in 
a Shakespearian comedy are often the villains; the lovers usually 
are the fools. While I have heard this production described as ugly 
and tasteless, I found it a little too cautious. I do agree that por­
tions of it are ugly, but somehow there are other portions that aren’t 
tasteless enough.
HOW DO YOU ACT POP ART? No one in the production is
sure, so everyone just acts, some better than others. There are 
times when the lovers are slowed down to imitate slow motion; 
there are also times when speeches are delivered so haltingly that 
it seems they have lapsed into slow motion, but as a whole, Shakes­
peare emerges as Shakespeare, perhaps in a blacker brew than ever 
before concocted.
In the play-within-the-play, Shakespeare wrote a parody on 
the play he had just written and perhaps a clue to this production. 
The main action of the play proper is over by the time the Trades­
men’s tragedy is played, and in their version of Pyrais and Thisby 
we are asked to laugh at a tragedy, but how often does Shakespeare 
actually move us to laughter in the comedy that precedes this? What 
happens in the woods is a “dream” constantly threatening to turn 
into a nightmare. In the woods, the plain Helena can be wooed by 
two men. In the woods, a man can literally be made into an ass.
Visually, the production is often exciting. The set which is- 
framed in a rainbow and features an elegant circular ramp plays 
against a black vinyl cyclorama. I only wish the same kind of in­
ventiveness had been evident in the costumes. They all too often 
fall short of what they are supposed to be, making them confusing 
and often ugly. The worst offenders are the four lovers who are 
dressed in costumes that are a cross between pajamas and 1930 skat­
ing outfits. If they are supposed to be either, somehow they work 
as neither.
Virtuoso productions such as this operate with built-in difficulty: 
everyone will not always get the points; others will not agree with 
the conception. The major shortcomings of Hancock’s Midsummer 
Night’s Dream is that it doesn’t go far enough. Unlike a sleepwalker, 
it is cautious. But like a dream, it is often cruel and bothersome, 
and sometimes quite wonderful.

---------------------------------------------------

Page 6 - CARNEGIE TECH TARTAN - Wednesday, December 7, 1966
30 to 507b OFF!
New Cameras — Any Make 
DELIVERY WITHIN 15 DAYS!
ORDER DIRECTLY FROM FACTORY 
CALL . . . 682-2873
1. Um...uh...now that we know 
each other a little, I was won­
dering if, uh, you think I’m the 
type of guy you could go for?
I could go for a 
real swinger.
2.1 have an exciting pipe 
collection.
I want to be where 
the action is.
3.1 know some daring chess 
openings.
I want a man who’s 
making it happen.
4.1 read all about it in The 
New York Times.
I want to do ‘in’ things 
with ‘in’ people 
in ‘in’ places.
5.1 spend a lot of time in 
the library.
My motto is fun today 
and fun tomorrow.
6. Then I guess you wouldn’t be 
interested in someone like me 
who has landed a good-paying 
job that will let his family 
live well and who, in addition, 
has taken out a substantial
Living Insurance policy fr 
ill provid
:iy tor ’
heaven forbid, anything should
Equitable that will provide 
if*handsomely for his family if, 
heaven forbid, i 
happen to him.
How’s about showing 
me that pipe 
collection, swinger?
For information about Living Insurance, see The Man from Equitable.
at Equitable, see your Placement OffiFor career 
write: Patricl
¡cer, oropportunité
ck Scollard, Manpower Development Division.
The EQUITABLE Life Assurance Society of the United States
Office:1285 Ave. of the Americas, New York, N. Y. 10019 
An Equal Opfwrtwiity Employer, M/F
© Equitable 1966
CSO Lecture
“What is Success?” Mr. Harry 
S. Smith, CSB, will answer this 
question tomorrow at 5 pm in 
the Wherrett Room in Skibo. His 
lecture is sponsored by the Chis- 
tian Science Organization of Car­
negie Tech.
Mr. Smith, former sales man­
ager for a national firm in At­
lanta, rsigned his position ten 
years to enter the Christian Sci­
ence healing ministry. He is now 
an authorized teacher of the re­
ligion and a member off the 
Board of Lectureship of the First 
Church of Christ, Scientist, in 
Boston.
WAC-ROTC...
(Continued from Page 2) 
master all the intricacies of the 
Ml before long.
One other item that has ham­
pered Mary is her long hair. Un­
fortunately all her locks will not 
fit under her WAC hat. However, 
thus far none of the officers have 
given Mary demerits.
As far as her fellow cadets 
go, they are now quite con­
tent with a girl in ROTC. 
There was a little surprise at 
first, but that has disappeared.
How’s ROTC treating Mary? 
Fine, just one thing: she doesn’t 
want to go to the Military Ball in 
uniform. According to Lt. Col. 
Accorti she won’t have to.
Ceilidh...
LEWIS
Salrs-Repai rs
RADIO - ELECTRIC CO 
SUPPLIES 
RADIOS 
HIGH FIDELITY 
TELEVISION 
RECORD PLAYERS
(Continued from Page 2) 
mundane one of journalist.
Sara Grey is one of those 
rare singers today who strives 
to keep her music as authentic 
as possible by collecting, ar­
ranging, and adapting the songs 
she sings. She has sung at col- 
legs and in coffee shops all 
over the eastern seaboard, and 
her recent appearances include 
a concert with Jean Ritchie in 
New York and performances at 
International House and the 
Music Academy in Philadel­
phia.
She will be accompanied at the 
concert here by Peter Hoover, a 
former Pittsburgher who excels 
at the five-string banjo, mando­
lin, guitar, dulcimer, autoharp, 
and other more exotic instru­
ments. Hoover, currently colla­
borating on a book with John 
Cohen of the New Lost City 
Ramblers, is a preparator in the 
division of paleontology at the 
Cleveland Natural Science Mu­
seum.
Ticket Arrangements
Tickets for the concert will all 
be priced at $1.50, and seating at 
the concert will be on a flrst- 
come-best-seat basis. Tickets may 
be obtained at the University of 
Pittsburgh Book center, or by 
calling 621-6732 between 9 am 
and 5 pm. Season tickets for the 
five concerts remaining in the 
series will be on sale at the Dec. 
9 concert and through various 
other outlets that will be publi­
cized at the time. On Campus, see 
Prof. Glasser, Department of 
P&D.
For Sole—1964 Rambler Sta­
tion Wagon. Excellent condi­
tion, 2 snow tires included. 
$950.00. Must sell prior to 
Christmas. Owner going 
overseas. Tel. 486-2309.
Kiltie Band 
Concludes Tour
Carnegie Tech’s 105 - member 
Kiltie Symhony Band concluded 
its first tour of the season last 
Friday with a performance at the 
Pennsylvania Music Educators As­
sociation convention in Harris­
burg.
The concert was held from 1:15 
to 2:30 pm at the Penn-Harris Ho­
tel in the state capital.
Before arriving in Harrisburg, 
the band played at Gateway High 
School in Monroeville, Pa., and at 
four Philadelphia area high 
schools.
Altogether, the tour lasted three 
days. A second trip is scheduled 
for next spring.
The Kiltie Symphony Band is 
directed by Dr. Richard Strange, 
associate professor of music.
Religious Advice
Carnegie Tech chaplains and 
advisors to religious groups are 
now scheduling office hours in 52 
Skibo on Mondays, Wednesday, 
Thursdays and Fridays, through 
the courtesy of Student Congress 
and Mr. Tim McFeely, Coordina­
tor of Student Activities, the Of­
fice of Religious Affairs announced 
this week.
Chaplains with office hours now 
scheduled are the Fathers of the 
Oratory (Roman Catholic), 10- 
11:30 am and 1:30-3 pm; and the 
Methodists, 4-5:30 pm. A com­
plete schedule will be posted on 
the door of the office. Inquiries 
may be made at the Office of 
Religious Affairs, 57 Skibo.
Ping-Pong Tables
Ping-pong tables are now avail­
able for student use in Thistle 
Hall. Thistle Hall is in the Gym­
nasium building, to the right of 
the stage in the men’s gym.
GRADUATE TO LOCKHEED
Posiobblios tboiyltf Citim mnb Aykenbbd twimb hm mnb ahke ghl rymbc io 
uho vlhokitky, Mbkbxpbl .WOFT yl khcc Aykenbbd kyccbkm S?TLJ W?FO 
.LTH’ Spending this Christmas holiday in the San Francisco area?... 
then look in on Lockheed at the Jack Tar Hotel. Lockheed’s profes­
sional employment team will be conducting interviews that can set you 
on the path to a fascinating, high-paying job at Lockheed. They’ll be 
happy to tell you about new-product development, product diversifica­
tion, company-conducted research, company-paid tuition programs, 
proximity to universities and research centers... as well as Agena, 
Polaris, Poseidon, Deep Submersibles g HEi EJP
and much, much more. An equal oppor- Mtsstlcs a SPACI COHM/vr 
tunity employer , ( amou* Division or Contituo AimcmArr noeeoe(dPo/v
For 67...the best shapes in Pgh. come from...
M. W. MOTORS
Pittsburgh's Factory Dealer 
ROUTE 8. ETNA

---------------------------------------------------

Wednesday, December 7, 1966 - CARNEGIE TECH TARTAN - Page 7
This Week In Pittsburgh
by Tim Brendel
MUSIC.............University of Pittsburgh: University Marching Band. Annual Stadium 
Review. Robert Arthur, director. Carnegie Music Hall. Wednes­
day, Dec. 7, 8:15 pm.
Carnegie Institute of Technology: Carnegie Concert Series. Lee Cass, 
basr baritone; Harry Franklin, piano. Carnegie Lecture Hall: 
Wednesday, Dec. 7, 8:30 pm.
The Lovin Spoonfuls and the Association, Civic Arena. Dec. 8, 8 pm. 
Reserve seats only.
Pittsburgh Symphony: Daniel Barenboim, piano soloist. Andre Prev­
in, guest conductor. Syria Mosque. Friday, Dec. 9, 8:40 pm, and 
Sunday, Dec. 11, 3:10 pm.
Carnegie Institute: United We Sing Christmas Carol Festival. Carne­
gie Music Hall. Sunday, Dec. 11, 2:30, 4 pm. Free.
Anna L. Perlow Music School of Y-IKC: Faculty Recital. 5738 Forbes. 
Sunday, Dec. 11, 8 pm. Free.
Carnegie Institute: “United We Sing” Christmas Carol Festival. Carne- 
chestra. Sidney Harth, conductor. Carnegie Music Hall. Sunday, 
Dec. 11, 8:30 pm. Free.
Tuesday Musical Club: Christmas program. Stephen Foster Memorial. 
Tuesday, Dec. 13, 1:30 pm.
Volulmmmmmmmmmmmm
A Midsummer Night’s Dream. Shakespeare’s famous comedy as "a 
brutal erotic nightmare about lust and a desire to kill.” 8:30 pm, 
Tuesday thru Friday; Saturday at 2 and 10 pm; Sunday at 7:30 
pm. Craft Theater, Pittsburgh Playhouse.
Film ohne Titel, second in a series of seven feature films presented 
by the German section of Chatham’s modern language depart­
ment. Coolidge Hall 135, Chatham College, Woodland Road. Dec. 
8, 8 pm. Free.
EXHIBITS.............
Photographs by Frank Hayes and William Jungels. Falk Hall Foyer. 
Chatham College. 10 am to 5 pm, Monday thru Saturday; 2 to 5 
pm, Sunday. Now thru Dec. 19.
Chinese Art from the Collection of Walter Read Hovey. Treasure 
Room, Carnegie Museum. 10 am to 5 pm, Monday thru Satur­
day; 2 to 5 pm, Sunday. On continuous display.
One-man Exhibition of Sculpture by Sylvester Damianos. Gallery K, 
third flooc, Carnegie Museum. Now thru Dec. 11.
Photographs, Drawings, and Models by Contemporary Philadelphia 
Architect, Louis Kahn. Galleries E-H, second floor, Carnegie Mu­
seum. Now thru Dec. 25.
Paintings, Crafts, and Sculpture by Local Artists. Phyllis Kindler, 
featured artist of the month. Gallery Downstairs, 5413-B, Walnut 
St. 10 am to 4 pm, Tuesday thru Saturday; 7 to 9 pm, Wednesday 
and Friday; 1 to 4 pm, Sunday. Now thru Dec. 15.
Exhibit of Work by Russell Twiggs. Pittsburgh Plan for Art, 1251 N. 
Negley Ave. Now thru Dec. 21.
Moon Venture 1969 and Miniature Railroad and Village. Buhl Plane­
tarium. Railroad on display from 1 to 10 pm. Moon Venture shows 
at 2:15, 4:15, and 8:15 pm.
BUY...
THESE 
ARTIFICIAL FLOWERS 
MADE BY THE CWENS
.. SOLD IN ..
BAKER HALL
THISTLE
The Symbol 
of 
Carnegie 
Tech
50 Cents 
2 for 75 Cents
DEC. 12th, 13th, 14th—10:30-2:30
*
THE SLICKEST, SWINGIN’EST CON-MANl \ 
WHO EVER TOOK THE WORLD FOR A RIDE! *
*
COLUMBIA PICTURES PresentsMIMS C0BURII
*Ts
W-GOBO^—
* *
S’n’S Auditions
Auditions for the Scotch’n’ Soda 
Club’s production of Pippin, Pip­
pin will continue this week on 
Friday, December 9, from 3:30 
to 5:30 and on Saturday, Decem­
ber 10, from 1 to 4 in the Wher- 
rett Room.
Previous cast members are re­
minded that this is the last time 
which they may audition. New 
people, however, may audition 
this week end or next, and the 
auditions will close on December 
17. Prospective cast members are 
reminded to be prepared to do 
a slow and a fast number. A 
pianist will ,be provided.
People interested in working on 
the production staff may sign-up 
at the Skibo desk during the au­
dition times.
Keyed-up studen¡ents unwind at Sheraton...
and save money
Save with weekend discounts! Send for your 
free Sheraton ID card today! It entitles you ft» room discounts at nearly all Sheraton Hotels and Motor Inns. Good over Thanks giving and Christmas holidays, summer vacation, weekends all year round.
SEND FOR YOUR FREE ID CARD!
COLLEGE RELATIONS DIRECTOR c/o.Sheraton-Park Hotel, Washington, D.C. 20008 Please rush me a free Sheraton Student ID Card (or a free Fac­ulty Guest Card). I understand it entitles me to generous dis­counts all year long at most Sheraton Hotels and Motor Inns. 
Name______________________________________________________
Address
Student ? Teacher ?
Sheraton Hotels & Motor Inns
Going To New York?
For Christmas Vacation Travel to New York 
By Chartered Bus.
The Bus leaves the Skibo Parking Lot at 5:00 p.m. on Wednesday, December 21 
(to arrive at the Port Authority Terminal at 1:00 a.m.) and will be returning from 
Sloane House (Y.M.C.A. on 34th Street) at 3:00 p.m. on Tuesday, January 3 
(avoiding crowds and delays at the Terminal).
Write your Check to STEPHEN WEINREICH for $17.50 (Round Trip) or 
$10.00 (One Way) and Send it to BOX 250, CAMPUS MAIL.*
... STEVE WEINREICH, BOX 250
HI See You On The Bus!
(No refunds for cancellations after December 17, 1966)
The upbeat buttondown.
Everything about this Arrow 
Decton Perma-lron shirt 
is traditional — except the 
fact that it refuses to 
wrinkle. And that may 
start a whole new tradition. 
Note the wide stripes, the 
just-so roll of the collar.
It's in a blend of Dacron 
polyester and cotton that’s 
“Sanforized-Plus". In 
other stripes, solids and 
whites, too. A winner 
at $7.00.
-ARROWS

---------------------------------------------------

Page 10 — CARNEGIE TECH TARTAN — Wednesday, December 7, 1966
Tartans Bow To Pitt, W&J;
Will Host Waynesburg Tomorrow
The Carnegie Tech Tartans got off on the wrong foot in following up their win- 
ningest season by dropping their first pair of games.
In the season opener against Pitt, the hustling Tartans played tooth and nail all 
the way, only to see the tremendous height advantage of Pitt win out in the stretch and 
net them a 69-58 victory. Pitt’s Jim La Valley played his best game as a Panther and scored
26 points while pulling in 20 re­
bounds. In fact, it was Pitt’s al­
most complete control of the 
boards that made their victory 
possible. In pulling in 60 re­
bounds—compared to Tech’s 42— 
the Panthers were able to ex­
ploit their height advantage by 
taking more shots, knowing that 
they would get the rebounds.
Scoring leader for the Tartans 
was sophomore Mark Lang, who 
netted 12 points while Ray Bur- 
dett was runner-up with 12.
In last Saturday’s game against 
Washington and Jefferson, the 
Tartans brought their 83-72 loss 
upon themselves by making only 
31 per cent of their shots from 
the field.
W&J, fresh from their 104-92 
victory over St. Vincent’s on
Lang: sets for shot against Pitt.
6-Man Volleyball
Pass League
The EJ’s “A” team have managed to remain undefeat­
ed in the Pass League, where any two of the four top 
teams could possibly finish in the playoffs. Both BTP and 
TDP “B” have only one defeat each, and should DTD beat 
TDP and the EJ’s win over Beta in this, the last week of 
regular play, a three-way tie for second place would result. 
In any case, tonight the playoffs begin at 7 in the gym-
nasium.
StandingswL
EJ’s “A" ..........60
TDP “B1 ---------------------51
BTP “A”........................41
DTD__________________42
Bandits _______________13
DU _ —..................14
Double Eagle _________15
SAE “J” . —................
Set League
06
The SAE “Lions” are in a tight 
battle with SN “Gold.” Two other 
contenders are “F” Troop and 
ESR, which has lost two of its 
last three games. This race won’t 
be decided until the last game
either; look howtightthe top
four are:
StandingswL
SAE “Lions" ........50
SN "Gold” _________ 41
..p. Troop ----------___ 32
BSR _____________----- 32TX "X” .............14
ATO "FP’___________14
Grad Nads ----------
Serve League
______04
PiKA seems to be walking 
away with this race, but the bat­
tle for second will be really 
tough TDP “A,” GSIA “L,” and 
a surprising EJ “Z” team are 
very close with only two defeats 
each. A look at the statistics:
Standings W L
PiKA .............................. 5 0
TDP "A”------------------- 4 2
EJ “Z" ............................... 3 2
GSIA "L” __________ 3 2
PKT "GoM” _________ 2 3
ATO "A" ____________ 1 4
SN "Black” ................ 0 5
Spike League
GSIA, after playing a mere 
three games, still leads the list 
in the Spike League, in which 
the race for playoff positions is 
far from over. “Notes to Win,” 
EJ “B,” and SAE “Purple” are 
still contenders. An interesting 
sidelight here is that the total 
number of games lost exceeds 
that of games won by two (add 
them up yourself!) Explanation
—BTP “B” and TX “T” both for­
feited their game together, so 
they both lost the same game!
StandingsWLGSIA "E” ....................30Notes to Win ................21EJ “B” ...........................32
SAE "Purple” ............32TX “T” ........................23
PKT "Purple” ............13BTP “B” .......................05
Bowling
Strike League
The EJ’s “A” continued their 
undefeated record with a 4-0 vic­
tory with a 4-0 shut-out over DTD 
“B.” In the other league match, 
BTP “A” defeated SAE, 3-1. 
Spare League
BSR, spurred by Jim Lipman‘s 
850 series, gained a tie for sec­
ond place by trouncing the EJ’s 
“C” 4-0. TDP “A” had an easy 
time in beating the Donner Dorm 
300’s 4-0. SN dropped into the 
second place tie with Beta Sig 
by taking three out of four points 
from the Eigenracs.
Split League
DTD “A” beat the EJ’s “B” 2Vz 
to Ibk, achieving the first tie game 
of the intramural season in the 
process. The Grad Nads moved 
up to second place by beating 
TDP “B” 4-0. ATO moved over 
the .500 mark by defeating BTP 
“B” 3-1.
Standings
STRIKE LEAGUE
Standing! W L
Tart nGn iiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiii lO p
DU .................................. 11 1
BTP "A” ____________ 8 4
TX ------------------------------- 4 8
SAE ------------------------------ 1 11
DTD “B” _____________ 0 12
SPARE LEAGUE
Standing« W L
TDP ‘‘A’’ ____________ 10 2
BSE ____________________9 3SN -------------------------- 9 3
Burdett Scores on juniper.
Tartan Photos by David Leavitt
Thursday, found themselves trail­
ing 9-2 and 13-11 in the early 
stages of the game, but soon took 
advantage of Tech’s poor shoot­
ing and never trailed again. They 
were paced by Don Smith, who 
scored 20 points to lead all scor­
ers.
Top scorer for Tech was once 
again Mark Lang, with 16 points. 
Other Tartans in double figures 
were Jeff Kalin and Don Keefer 
with 15 and 12 points, respec­
tively.
Tomorrow night, the Tartans 
host Waynesburg in their home 
opener and they travel to Uni­
versity Park on Saturday, where 
they will take on the Nitany 
Lions of Penn State. Next Tues­
day, the Tartans will host West­
minster. All home games start at 
8:15 pm with JV games begin­
ning at 6:30 pm.
Swimmers Lose To 
West Virginia
The Swimming Tartans learned 
what a rough road it is to vic­
tory as they were bumped by 
West Virginia University 65-39 
last Thursday. It was the Tar­
tans first meet of the season, and 
West Virginia, as it has in the
Donner Dorm 300's ... 39
Eigenracs ..................... 39
EJ’s "C” .......................210
SPLIT LEAGUE
StandingsWL
DTD “A” ....................• 9%2%Grad Nads ................... 84
ATO ................................ 75
EJ’s "B” ....................• 6%5 V?.BTP "B" .....................48
TDP "B” ....................... 111
HIGH INDIVIDUAL AVERAGES
1) Lipman ____________________BSR 180
2) Rosen f eld ........................DU 176
3) Nadeau ............EJ’* "A” 176
4) Doud« .................EJ’a"A” 174
5) Yee .....................EJ’s "B” 169
HIGH TEAM AVERAGES
1) EJ’« “A” .....................................821
2) DU ...................................................771
3) BSR ...............................................751
4) SAE .................................................750
5) TDP “A” ______________________743
Rifle Team Wins Over W&-J;, 
Sports Perfect 7-0 Record
Carnegie Tech has pushed its 
record in the Western Pennsyl­
vania Rifle League to seven wins 
and no losses. In a match shot 
last Friday against Washington 
and Jefferson College in Wash­
ington, Pa., the Tartans won 
1399-1377.
The scoring was led by team 
captain Dick Damberg with a 
283. Damberg put in an excep­
tionally fine offhand of 96. Fol­
lowing him were Ted Mankovich 
and Franny O’Donnell, both with 
280’s, and Fred Klein and Bruce 
McKelvy, both registering 278’s. 
McKelvy shot a fine kneeling 
score of 97.
Few people know much about 
riflery as a sport unless they par­
ticipate. The sport more than any­
thing else is a test of nerves. The 
team member must be able to 
control every part of his body to 
insure a steady rifle and a clean 
shot.
In a match the entire team 
shoots and to calculate the score, 
at least in the league Tech shoots 
in, the top five scores are added 
together. Usually this total will 
fall in the mid 1300’s. This means
that the individual scores in the 
high 200’s. These scores are based 
on an individuals performance in 
three positions, each worth 1QQ 
points. The 100 points is divided 
over ten targets. Each contestant 
has a time limit of ten minutes 
for each position. yj
The positions are prone, kneel­
ing, and offhand or standing. The 
most difficult position is usually 
considered the offhand. In this 
the rifleman is provided with a 
minimum of body support and 
must make up for this with a 
steady hand and good nerves. 
The actual shooting is done with 
.22 cal. rifles using 22 Icing am­
munition. Tech shoots on a 50^ 
foot range with Remington 40x 
and Winchester 52 d and c rifles. 
The weapons are equipped with 
Reinfield Olympic sites. The rifles 
weigh about 15 pounds, and the 
difficulty in supporting one of 
these weapons is obvious.
Interesting to note is the fact 
that many women are excellent 
shots. This is attributed in part ^ 
to their nerves and to the fact 
that the blood pressure of women 
(Continued on Page 9)
Trezise Replaces Sofield 
As Swimming Team Coach
WARA Loses Two 
At Westminster
Crippled by inclement weather 
and overcrowding in their Hertz 
Rent-a-car, the WARA volleyball 
team found itself on the losing 
end of two matches against West­
minster this Saturday. The team 
lost the first game 15-11, but 
bounced back to take the second 
game 15-10. However, Tech was 
unable to score in the third and 
deciding game. The team fought 
hard in the second match, but 
their lack of reserves hurt, and 
the players showed the effect of 
the grind as they dropped two 
straight to a fresh Westminster 
team.
On Tuesday at 6:30 the team 
met Indians at Indiana. Tech lost 
the first match 15-2 and 15-5, but 
after this warm-up the players be­
gan to show some real teamwork 
as they took the second match 
15-3 and 17-15.
With only one more game to 
play, Miss Mary Hirsch, the 
team’s coach is aiming for a 
victory over Pitt and a .500 season.
past, proved to be strong opponent.
Captain Pete Hutter was out­
standing in the defeat as he 
equaled his school record time of 
23.3 seconds in the fifty-yard 
freestyle. Sweeps of the first two 
places were taken both in diving 
as John Bennett and Stuart Ken- 
nison combined their talents, and 
in the 200-yard backstroke, swum 
by Bill Cotsworth aand Tom Kil­
gore, freshman J. Fred Rial re­
ceived Tech’s only other first 
place in the 2000-yard breast- 
stroke.
The Tartans were not at full 
strength as they suffered from 
the loss of both Preston Biglow 
and John O’Brien. John has a 
broken arm and will be out for 
several weeks. The team’s next 
meet is at Westminster on De­
cember 14.
People in different occupations 
usually make wishes that repre- 4 
sent their ambitions. One wish 
that usually occurs to an athletic 
coach after a successful season 
is that all his varsity lettermen 
could return the following year. 
The dish of a physical educa. 
tion teacher is to someday be­
come a varsity coach.
These desires may seem unre- . 
lated but in the life of John N. 
Trezise they have become real­
ities. Mr. Trezise will replace 
Claude Sofield as swimming coach 
after ten years of teaching phy­
sical education at Tech. The swim 
team, which had- a 6-6 record 
last year will return almost in 
its entirety, since only one letter- * 
man graduated last year.
Mr. Trezise received his bache­
lor’s degree from West Chester 
State College and his master’s 
from the University of Pittsburgh, 
where he is now working on his 
doctor’s. He is a native of Penn-\
sylvania and currently resides in 
the city of Irwin.
The Tartans will be led by last 
year’s most valuable player, Pete 
Hutter, captain this year. Other 
returning lettermen are Bill Cots­
worth, David Kiefer, Frank Wy­
man (seniors); Les Hough, John 
Perry, Mike Zimmerman (juniors); 
and sophomores Preston Biglow, 
Bill Johnson, and John O’Brien. 
Added to this impressive list are 
promising freshmen J. Fred Rial 
and C. Merrill Motor.
According to the coach, the 
team is in its best possible physi­
cal condition after an extra month 
of practices. Toughest opponents 
in this year’s competition should 
be Kent University and Grove 
City.
