Volume 95, Issue 11www.thetartan.org20 November 2000
Volume9 Carnegie Mêlions Student Newspaper Since 1906
WEDNESDAYHi 30/Lo 22
THURSDAY
FRIDAY
Hi'40/Lo 32THE TARTAN
CMU students join others in election protests Senate looks to modifyallocation of GSA fundsby Emily LandesSenior Staffwriter
In cities across the country this 
past Saturday, protesters voiced 
their objections to the reported 
“voting irregularities” which 
occurred during the presidential 
election. Approximately thirty 
people, including several CMU and 
Pitt students, participated in the 
Pittsburgh protest that took place 
in front of the Allegheny County 
Courthouse.
There was no particular message 
being endorsed by the protesters; 
in fact, no one political group orga­
nized the protest. Some protesters 
were affiliated with the Green 
Party, as well as political action 
groups like the NAACP, while oth­
ers defined themselves simply as 
“voting citizens.”
The disparity among the causes 
that brought people out to protest 
seemed evident from the different 
slogans on their placards. The rela­
tively small group of protesters 
stood with signs reading every­
thing from “Demand a Fair Count” 
to “End Political Slavery-Abolish 
the Electoral College.” Others held 
signs which seemed designed .to 
involve the cars going through the 
high traffic area in front of the 
courthouse. One sign read, “Honk 
for Democracy.”
Though some passersby yelled 
remarks indicating their dis­
agreement with the protesters, 
on the whole the response 
seemed positive. Many passing 
cars honked repeatedly when dri­
ving by the courthouse and rein­
forced their approval by clapping 
or giving protesters a “thumbs- 
up.”
Rebecca Susman, a first-year 
student at Pitt, said that she was 
“encouraged” by all the response 
of people driving by the protest. 
“It’s showing that we have sup­
porters,” she said. Susman also 
said that she was impressed by the 
number of protesters themselves, 
claiming that at a similar protest 
the previous Saturday about half 
as many people were there. “We’re 
building sort of a movement here,” 
she said.
Other student protesters indicat­
ed that they, too, hope to create a 
political movement which will 
improve elections in the future. 
Andress Appolon, a junior in
CMU students were among protestors gathered outside of the Allegheny Courthouse last Saturday. They were 
holding signs displaying their views on who the winner should be and whether there should be a revote.
Demand for DSL services among off- campus students results in shortage
Bachelors of Humanities and Arts 
at CMU, said that while she did not 
believe that the protest was likely 
to have an effect on the outcome of 
this election, her hope was that it 
would increase awareness about 
what ordinary citizens can do. 
Appolon was particularly interest­
ed in increasing awareness about 
the need for a simple, nationally 
uniform ballot that any person can 
understand.
“Any type of public action taken 
by citizens can prompt people to 
write their congressman and have 
things clarified,” she said. That 
way, she said, “there will never be 
disparities like these again.”
The issue of ballot design was an 
important one to many protesters. 
It is thought that the confusing 
“butterfly” ballot used in Palm 
Beach County led thousands to 
accidentally vote for Reform Party 
candidate Pat Buchanan or to vote 
twice on one ballot, thus invalidat­
ing their vote.
According to Michael Shamos, 
co-director of CMU’s Institute for 
e-commerce and an authority on 
voting procedures, poor ballot 
design often leads to disenfran­
chisement. During a lecture last 
Wednesday on potential prob­
lems with current voting methods 
Shamos said, “The butterfly bal­
lot is so terrible, it’s difficult for 
me to talk about it without chok­
ing.”
Others familiar with Human 
Computer Interaction (HCI) 
agreed. According to Gina 
Ringgenberg, an e-commerce 
Masters student who attended the 
lecture, “From an HCI standpoint, 
that butterfly ballot was pathetic. 
There seems to be a general con­
census that the voters were stu­
pid, but it broke all the rules of 
HCI.”
The butterfly ballot is one 
design of the punch card voting 
system, the method used by 37.3 
percent of the country, including 
the disputed areas in Florida. 
Shamos said that this voting 
method can often lead to many 
discarded votes. He stated that 
this is because the chad, or piece 
of ballot which must be punched 
out in order for one’s vote to be 
counted, does not always separate 
completely. Thus, the counting 
machine cannot always read the 
vote.
Another problem with the 
punch card method, according to 
See PROTEST, page A3
Student Senate members, including Nick Fitzkee who is shown above, dis­
cussed the allocation of funds for GSA at last Thursdays meeting. Concern 
over GSA funding arose when undergraduate students were not allowed to 
attend the GSA Happy Hour events.
President] Ronnie [Fernandes] and 
talked with [the executive commit­
tee] about it. We agreed we would 
get Dave [Liber] to unfreeze the bud­
get if they opened up happy hours to 
undergraduates over 21,” said Senate 
Chair Nick Fitzkee, a senior physics 
major, of a temporary solution.
He said GSA still wanted to make 
the event exclusively for graduate 
students in the future, which was 
the basis for the amendment. 
Money coming directly from GSA 
can be used for events exclusively 
for graduate students.
GSA President Ronnie Fernandes 
said that GSA Social’s main motiva­
tion for wanting to limit the event 
to graduate students relates to lia­
bility. Under the strict 
Pennsylvania liquor laws, they 
must accept responsibility as a 
social host for the event. 
Therefore, they would be responsi­
ble if an underage undergraduate 
student consumed alcohol during 
the event. Fernandes, a doctoral 
student in Public Policy and 
Management, said that a fight 
broke out last semester between 
two undergraduates at a happy 
hour event. Without complete 
authority to control the event, 
Fernandes feels that GSA Social 
could no longer hold the popular 
graduate student event.
The proposed change states that 
“30 percent of graduate fees is 
See GSA, page A3
by Seth MandelManaging Editor
The undergraduate Student 
Senate will soon vote on a constitu­
tional amendment that will change 
the way funds are allocated to the 
Graduate Student Assembly (GSA). 
The change will allow GSA to make 
events such as their weekly happy 
hours, which are funded by the 
$68,225 GSA Social budget, open 
exclusively to graduate students. 
Currently, GSA Social receives their 
funding through the Joint Funding 
Committee (JFC), a group of both 
undergraduate and graduate stu­
dents that decides how money is 
distributed to organizations.
The current proposal originated 
from concerns raised by under­
graduate students who were not 
allowed into a GSA happy hour 
event. Since funding for those 
events comes from the JFC, they 
must be open to all activities fee- 
paying students, according to stu­
dent government rules. Student 
Body Treasurer David Liber froze 
GSA Social’s budget in response to 
their policy violation. At that point, 
the two governing bodies met to 
figure out how to best deal with the 
situation.
“It was pretty much established 
that something would have to be 
done at least in interim to get GSA 
Social done. I met with [GSA
Students, faculty continue to express 
opinions on Intel’s impact on campus
by Aseem GuptaOnline Editor
After a strike by Verizon 
Communications, formerly Bell 
Atlantic, brought a halt to new DSL 
subscriptions for CMU students, 
off-campus subscribers were faced 
with yet another hurdle in their 
quest for high-speed Internet 
access. Carnegie Mellon has run 
out of static Internet protocol (IP) 
addresses for new subscribers to 
CMU DSL. Further, confusion over 
alternatives to the static IP address­
es further delayed access for some
students already affected by 
Verizon’s industrial action.
Static IP addresses are perma­
nently assigned IP addresses. Each 
computer that is on the Internet is 
assigned an IP address which is 
unique from every other IP address 
. on the Internet, much like a com­
plete phone number with country 
code and area code is unique. 
CMU’s IP addresses are all in the 
second level 128.2.*.* domain.
In an email to current CMU DSL 
subscribers, computing services 
said that, “due to the popularity of 
Computing Services/Verizon’s 
CMU DSL, all of the available IP
addresses for this services have 
been allocated to current DSL 
users.” Computing Services claim 
that there is an extremely high 
demand for CMU’s 128.2.*.* 
domain space, and there are con­
straints for increasing IP addresses 
within the subnets, and that no 
additional IP addresses can be allo­
cated for DSL services.
In response to the lack of IP 
addresses, Computing Services 
has moved to introduce dynamic 
IP addressing. Dynamic IP 
addressing allows for many people 
to share a limited number of IP 
See REALLOCATION, page A5
by Clinton BrownleyStaffwriter
The debate about Intel moving 
into a location in the University 
Center basement continues. 
Carnegie Mellon University is 
still in the process of consider­
ing and debating an agreement 
with Intel to allow the company 
to move into the UC basement 
for private use. Many members 
of the CMU community have 
mixed opinions about whether 
or not Intel should be allowed to 
use the UC basement for its pri­
vate use.
Some of the issues being dis­
cussed and debated between 
administration, faculty, and stu­
dents regarding include the dura­
tion of Intel’s stay, the cost of ren­
ovating the basement, other uses 
of the basement space, conflict­
ing interests of Intel and the 
University Center, Intel’s contri­
bution to the surrounding com­
munity, and whether or not the 
students’ wishes should be seri­
ously considered. These issues 
weigh heavily on the decision 
makers in the debate process 
because it is realized that these
issues are legitimate concerns of 
people within the CMU commu­
nity.
Several members of the 
Carnegie Mellon community, 
including faculty and students, 
have offered their opinions about 
these issues. University 
President Jared Cohon previous­
ly said that he acknowledges that 
a long-term corporate office is 
not consistent with the mission 
of the University Center. But, he 
also said that the Intel center will 
only be temporarily located on- 
campus until they can find a per- 
See INTEL, page A5
INSIDE THE TARTANUniversity rewards professor for work in genetics
Forum
We've got reflections on the 
election. Check out our 
Election Extravaganza, 
page A6
Business
CMU R&D Center is on the 
Q.T. And very ...*hush*hush* 
page B4
Sports
Tartan football wraps up and 
women's basketball wins Tip- 
off Tournament, 
page A10
Arts & Living
Gong! Kappa Kappa Gamma 
holds their talent show, 
while the Drama department 
works overtime, 
page B1
Entertainment
James Brown has a brand 
new bag. 
page B6
by Erin SzetoSpecial Projects Manager
Elizabeth Jones, head of the 
Carnegie Mellon Department of 
Biological Sciences, has been 
named a Dr. Frederick A. 
Schwertz Distinguished Professor 
of Life Sciences for her superior 
work and achievement in the field 
of genetics.
The author of two genetics text­
books and the editor-in-chief of the 
monthly journal Genetics, Jones 
first became interested in the sub­
ject of genetics while she was an 
undergraduate at the University of 
Washington. “I was a chemistry 
major, but I took a genetics course 
and found that the subject perfectly 
suited me. It was fascinating and 
very easy for me; I loved it,” Jones 
said.
With her newfound interest, 
Jones took several more genetics 
courses, switched majors, and 
became one of the first students to 
graduate from the University of 
Washington’s newly instituted 
Applied Genetics Department. 
Jones went on to the Massachusetts 
Institute of Technology to study 
biochemistry and has since earned 
her doctorate degree, published 
more than 70 papers, and won 
numerous honors and awards for 
her research, including a National 
Institute of Health Research Career 
Development Award and a John 
Simon Guggenheim Foundation 
Fellowship.
Despite all of her awards, Jones 
believes that her greatest accom­
plishment thus far is the time she 
spends working with undergradu­
ate student researchers. She says, 
See JONES, page A5
Elizabeth Jones was recently named a Dr. 
Distinguished Professor for her work in genetics.
A. Schwertz

---------------------------------------------------

THE TARTAN • NOVEMBER 20, 2000
+ 0FJ/VIRE+
Bush, Gore submit legal arguments
TALLAHASSEE, Fla. (AP) — 
Lawyers for A1 Gore argued 
Saturday that with “the eyes of the 
nation” and the world on Florida 
it’s vital that hand-counted ballots 
be added to the state tally. George 
W. Bush’s camp contends manual 
recounts are prone to error and 
mischief-making. With the White 
House at stake, both sides in the 
post-election drama geared up for 
a Monday showdown in the 
Florida Supreme Court.
Bush has argued that manual 
recounts in three Democratic- 
leaning counties — Palm Beach, 
Broward and Miami-Dade — are 
selective and unfair and open to 
human mistakes and “mischief.” 
Bush wants the counts stopped. 
Karen Hughes, spokeswoman for 
Bush, told reporters Saturday in 
Austin, Texas, that “the manual 
recount of ballots that have 
already been machine counted 
several times is flawed, and is sub­
ject to human error.”
Lawyers for Bush also say that 
Republican Secretary of State 
Katherine Harris acted properly in 
sticking with the deadline last 
Tuesday for counties to report 
final vote tallies — other than 
overseas ballots — for state certifi­
cation. The state Supreme Court 
on Friday essentially froze the out­
come by telling Harris she couldn’t 
certify results for now. Formal 
legal responses from Bush and 
from Harris are due by Sunday.
The lawsuit at the center of the 
Supreme Court action came origi­
nally from county elections offi­
cers, who were then joined by 
Gore. Bush wasn’t part of the case 
at first, but asked to come in later
on Harris’ side. Until now, the 
Bush camp has been leery of sid­
ing too closely with Harris, for 
fear that would undermine her 
argument that she is performing 
her job without partisan bias. The 
seven Supreme Court justices are 
all appointees of Democratic gov­
ernors in the state, now run by 
Bush’s Republican brother, Jeb.
Gore’s 62-page argument called 
Harris’ actions “Kafkaesque,” and 
accused the Republican of contribut­
ing to delays and confusion that left 
Florida counties unsure whether or 
how to proceed with manual 
recounts requested by Democrats.
Democrats hope that recounted 
ballots in heavily Democratic 
counties will add enough Gore 
votes to erase Bush’s 930-vote 
lead. The winner captures
Florida’s 25 electoral votes and 
with them the White House.
Palm Beach and Broward counties 
asked Harris and the state’s 
Democratic attorney general, Bob 
Butterworth, for legal guidance. 
Harris said don’t count, Butterworth 
said do, and county officials decided 
to sue them both to get a court to 
resolve the conflict.
“The eyes of the nation — 
indeed, of the entire world — are 
on Florida,” the Gore filing said. 
“Manual recounts are an essential 
part of the law of Florida” and havg 
been used to help resolve other 
elections, Gore’s lawyers argued.
Harris, they said, has acted too 
quickly to ignore arguments that 
counties may need more time to 
complete the recounts.
Bush’s slim 300-vote lead expand­
ed to 930 Saturday with unofficial 
results from overseas absentee bal­
lots. If the recount results from Palm 
Beach, Broward, and Mi'ami-Dade 
counties don’t count, Bush is the 
winner — in Florida and the presi­
dential race as well.
The case came to the Florida 
Supreme Court on Friday, after a 
Democratic lower court judge said 
Harris did have authority to impose 
the deadline, according to state law.
Democrats argue that she has 
flexibility in deciding whether to ! 
stretch the deadline if counties 
need more time. Harris’ lawyers say 
the law is the law, and she is merely 
following it. They deny she has any 
partisan interest.
Gore won two court rulings on 
Friday with the net effect that the ! 
recounts continued pending the 
Florida Supreme Court hearing on 
Monday. The Supreme Court, com­
posed of six Democrats and one 
independent, issued an unanimous 
order Friday forbidding Harris 
from certifying state election 
results at noon Saturday. Not long 
after that decision, the 11th U.S. 
Circuit Court of Appeals in Atlanta 
turned down Bush’s request for an 
immediate end to ballot recount­
ing, saying it saw no reason to step 
in — at least for now.
Bush argues the recounts are 
unconstitutional, but the appeals 
court did not rule on that underly­
ing issue. The 12 appeals judges 
— seven Republicans and five 
Democrats — asked the two sides 
to discuss how to proceed, includ­
ing whether they wanted a hear­
ing on the matter. There are more 
than a dozen other pending legal 
challenges to ballot design, voting 
procedures and election law in 
various Florida counties.South African explosion results in deaths
LENASIA, South Africa (AP) — 
A fire and explosion in a floor pol­
ish factory killed 11 workers who 
had apparently been locked inside 
the building by the owner, police 
said Saturday.
“It seems there wasn’t any open 
door in there, because if there 
was, they would have escaped,” 
police spokesman Superintendent 
Richard Luvhengo said. The fire in 
the small brick building late 
Friday night was likely started 
when a highly flammable chemi­
cal dripped onto a gas burner, 
Luvhengo said. The barrel was 
illegally stored inside the factory. 
The fire spread to gas containers, 
which then exploded, he said.
None of the employees working 
the overnight shift survived. The 
positioning of their bodies indicat­
ed they tried to run away from the 
blaze but were unable to get out, 
Luvhengo said. A delivery door 
blown out by the explosion still 
had a padlock attached.
Police were questioning the fac­
tory owner, who could face 
charges of murder, culpable homi­
cide or negligence, Luvhengo said.
At this stage, police do not believe 
race was an issue, Luvhengo said. 
The owner is Indian and “employed 
people of different races,” he said. 
The polish company, Esschem, had 
about 70 workers. The factory, 
located in Lenasia 25 miles south­
west of Johannesburg, was required 
to have an emergency exit because 
it used highly flammable chemicals, 
but it did not appear to have one, he 
said.
Colleagues of the victims said
the owners always locked them 
inside, despite their complaints. 
“We don’t know why. Maybe they 
don’t trust us,” said employee 
Agnes Nkanyane. Nkanyane, 26, 
said the owner had done nothing 
about the fire hazard though 
employees had told him that a fire 
had nearly broken out in the facto­
ry several times.
Angry workers gathered outside 
the factory demanding to see the 
factory owner. Luvhengo said the 
owner had been at the site earlier 
Saturday, but was taken to a police 
station. Several employees cried 
loudly, and one woman fainted. 
Rehana Adam, a member of the 
Lenasia city council, tried to con­
sole workers and urged them to 
bring safety complaints to the 
council.
Corrections & Clarifications
In Volume 95, Issue 10, the article on page B1 entitled “Renowned jass pianist Ellis Marsalis...” stated that 
the event was sponsored by CFA, but the Alcoa Speaker Series is really sponsored by the Alcoa Foundation 
and run by the Graduate Programs Office.
The Tartan corrects all known errors of fact. If you know of an error, please contact Editor-in-Chief Ish Harshawat 
atx8-2111 or tartan@andrew.cmu.edu.
TA strike could 
delay degrees
(U-WIRE) SEATTLE — Almost 
900 University of Washington 
seniors who are graduating this 
quarter may be delayed from receiv­
ing their degree if teaching assis­
tants decide to strike next month.
The Office of Admissions is basing 
that estimate on the number of stu­
dents who graduated last December, 
said Tim Washburn, executive direc­
tor of admissions and records.
TAs do much of the grading in 
courses from various departments, 
and in some cases teach their own 
classes. “Hopefully most of the stu­
dents are taking upper division 
classes, and those are mostly taught 
by professors,” Washburn said. 
“However, for those seniors that are 
still fulfilling general education 
requirements like a last quarter of 
foreign language, those [students] 
would be the most likely to be 
affected [by strike].”
“Without all the grades in, a 
strike would postpone a degree,” 
Washburn said.
Many seniors are also applying for 
graduate school, with deadlines 
approaching for final undergraduate 
transcripts. Washburn said that the 
University will send written explana­
tions for delayed transcripts to grad­
uate school or job applications.
“Once students put in a transcript
request, if they do that, [the univer­
sity] will hold their transcript 
order,” Washburn said. “If a student 
has a missing grade or no grades at 
all, that will obviously delay send­
ing that transcript. Once the tran­
script is complete, we will put a 
message in with the transcript that 
because of a strike, grades were not 
available,” Washburn said.
Last month, about 80 percent of 
campus TAs voted to strike in order to 
push the administration to recognize 
their union, the Graduate Student 
Employee Action Coalition (GSEAC). 
Although the administration refuses to 
recognize GSEAC, which is affiliated 
with United Auto Workers, the Faculty 
Senate voted to support GSEAC union­
ization efforts, yet remained neutral 
on the subject of a strike.
“[The Faculty Staff] was the last 
constituent to weigh in support,” 
said Melissa Meade, member of 
GSEAC’s organizing committee. 
“We have support from state 
Democrats, undergrads, local 
unions, national unions ... now we 
have support from the faculty.”
The administration questions 
whether TAs, who are students, 
should be regarded as employees. It 
also argues against a TA union with­
out any legislation enabling collec­
tive bargaining rights for some state 
employees. No movement has been 
made in the standoff between 
administration and GSEAC.
“We’re still waiting for the most
strategic time to strike,” Meade, 
said. “We’re ready though. We 
could strike tomorrow.”
Keith Leffler, UW professor of. 
economics, decided to err on the 
side of caution and rescheduled his 
next midterm. His test will be held 
before the Thanksgiving break and 
not after, as originally planned.
“I moved the midterm for fear 
that a labor action might be focused 
on a crucial period in the term,” 
Leffler said.
“It there’s a strike, I’ll grade the 
final myself,” Leffler said.! 
“Honestly, I’m just trying to avoid 
utter chaos.”
Roller coaster 
gives last ride
NEW YORK (AP) — A dilapidated 
relic of Coney Island’s golden era is 
just a memory following the demo­
lition of the Thunderbolt roller­
coaster.
Acting on an order from the city’s 
Buildings Department, work crews 
Friday began tearing up the wood-; 
en tracks and steel beams of the 76- 
year-old structure, which last car-' 
ried thrill-seekers 17 years ago. 
Also razed was the 105-year-old 
house beneath the rollercoaster 
that was featured in Woody Allen’s 
“Annie Hall.” With the demise of- 
the Thunderbolt, Coney Island’s 
remaining rollercoaster is the 
Cyclone.
World News
Police accuse 
agent of trying to 
kill Castro
PANAMA CITY, Panama (AP) — 
As Latin American and European 
leaders met to discuss their prob­
lems, Panamanian police on 
Saturday were trying to decide 
what to do with a shadowy former 
CIA agent accused of trying to kill 
Fidel Castro.
Luis Posada Carriles was 
detained Friday evening a few 
hours after the Cuban leader 
accused him of plotting an assassi­
nation during the two-day Ibero- 
American Summit, which was to 
conclude Saturday. Police Chief 
Carlos Bares said police had 24 
hours to charge or release Posada, 
who escaped from a Venezuelan 
prison in 1985 while awaiting retri­
al on charges of masterminding the 
bombing of a Cuban jetliner in 1976 
that killed 73 people.
Bares said no weapons were 
found with Posada or three others 
detained with him at a Panama City 
hotel. He said Posada had been 
using a Salvadoran passport. He 
did not identify the others 
detained.
Castro claimed Posada was work­
ing for the Miami-based Cuban- 
American National Foundation, 
which immediately denied any con­
nection with Posada.
For decades, Cuba has accused 
Posada of terrorist acts against the 
communist island nation and assas­
sination attempts against Castro 
himself. Prosecutors accused him of 
masterminding the October 1976 
bombing of a Cubana de Aviacion 
jetliner. He was acquitted twice, but 
officials were making a third try to 
convict him when he escaped from 
prison in 1985. Venezuelan officials 
say he still faces charges there. 
After Posada’s escape, he allegedly 
helped send guns to the U.S.- 
backed Contra rebels in Nicaragua. 
Honduran officials also have identi­
fied him as the associate of an' 
alleged arms dealer in that country.
The Miami Herald reported in 
1998 that he had been living off 
and on in El Salvador and had close 
ties with current or retired military 
figures in the region. Salvadoran 
officials said in 1998 they were 
unable to locate him. In a 1998 
interview with The New York Times, 
Posada was quoted as admitting 
involvement in the bombing of 
hotels in Cuba in 1997. The Herald 
reported that Posada had been 
involved in several other attempts 
to disrupt Cuba’s socialist economy 
or kill Castro at other international 
summits.
Egypt postpones 
activist’s trial
CAIRO, Egypt (AP) — Lawyers 
defending human rights activist 
Saad Eddin Ibrahim rejected the 
charges against him at the opening 
of his trial Saturday, saying Ibrahim 
had been targeted for political rea­
sons.
“What is demanded here is Saad 
Eddin Ibrahim’s head” and not jus­
tice, lead defense attorney Ibrahim 
Saleh told the court. Ibrahim, an 
Egyptian who also holds American 
citizenship, and 27 others are fac­
ing charges ranging from accepting 
foreign money without government 
approval to issuing false statements 
about the country’s internal situa­
tion.
They are also accused of trying^ 
to embezzle money and making 
plans to bribe employees at the 
state-run radio and television sta­
tions to broadcast programs about: 
the Ibn Khaldoun Center, a Cairo 
think tank run by Ibrahim. “This 
case is clearly politically motivat­
ed,” Saleh said after the court 
closed. “We will uncover during" 
the course of the trial what we 
mean by that. (Ibrahim) was not 
charged criminally, but charged1 
politically.”
Ibrahim, 61, was arrested an<£ 
detained in late June. He was 
released August 10. He has said that 
the prosecutor’s charges were 
prompted by his political activities 
and the decision to set up a commit­
tee to monitor parliamentary elec­
tions, which concluded Tuesday.
The attorneys of all 28 defen­
dants asked Saturday for a post­
ponement in order to allow time for 
further review of the case and for 
calling witnesses. The judge com­
plied without an exact date, but he 
said the trial would resume with 
the first round of cases in late 
January.
Lisa Harrow inWit
PITTSBURGH
THEATER
by Margaret Edsan • Directed by Ethan McSweeny
Contains brief hospital-like nudity.
Now thro December 10 • O’Reilly Theater, Downtown 
UNDER 26/FULL TIME STUDENTS - ONLY $10* 
(412) 316-1600 • www.ppt.org
* Available in advance for Sunday thru Thursday evenings and all matinees.
One hour before performance for Friday and Saturday evenings. Valid ID required.
DU© 90.5 FM piHsbiirgl] jtel -(£»asctic
The O'Reilly Is a theater of The Pittsburgh Cultural Trust.
1Corec t inrs&rsl t arsfrsl
THEEARN+0F 
J/VI Wo+RrA ldre w sVPSBU/SP/GP 
PVI 1+52E ,Ee wsVPSs/VSUIIskinko's
Open 24 hours • www.kinkos.com • 1-800-2-KINKQS • America Online® Keyword: Kinko's
I 40 BLACK & WHITE COPIES I
Receive 8-1/2' i11' Express sell-serve, single-sided, black-and-white copies on 
white bond lor just 4( each. Limit SO: Oiler is limited to one coupon per customer. 
Customer must relinquish coupon at time ol purchase. Coupon may not be 
reproduced and is net valid with other coupons, oilers cr discounts. Oiler valid at 
time of purchase only and may not be discounted or credited to past or luture 
purchases. Products and services vary by location. Coupon vtid where prohibited 
or restricted by law. No cash value.
1 I 
I I 
I I 
I I
790 FULL COLOR COPIES I
Receive 8-1/2’ til* Express sell-serve, single-sided, lull color copies cn 24-lb. 
white bond.lor just 79» each. Limit 25. Resizing costs extra. Oiler is limited to one 
coupon per customer. Customer mustrdinquish coupon at time ol purchase. Coupon 
may not be reproduced and is net valid with other coupons, alters or discounts. 
Oiler valid at time ol purchase only and may not be discounted or credited to past 
or luture purchases. Products and services vary by location. Coupon void where 
prohibited or restricted by law. Ho cash value.
VALID AT KINKO'S PARTICIPATING U.S. KINKO'S LOCATIONS ONLY. | | VALID ATKINKO'S PARTICIPATING U.S. KINKO'S LOCATIONS ONLY.
L kinko's-1hkinko's[ mUU/ 1 | |||^ Tgl LAr rul
Products and services vary by location. America Online is a registered servicemark ol America Online, Inc. Kinko's and kmkos.com are registered trademarks ol Kinko's Ventures, Inc. and are used by 
permission. Kinko's requires w/itten pamission Irom the copyright holder in order to reproduce any copyrighted work. 02000 Kinko's, Inc. All rights reserved.

---------------------------------------------------

THE TARTAN • NOVEMBER 20, 2000
Anthony D'Auria/Photo Staff
Students gathered outside the Allegheny County Courthouse on Saturday to protest the methods used in deciding the 
presidential elections.Student Senate re-examines GSA funding
j GSA, from page A1 
given to GSA for use as operating 
funds, special allocation, and 
reserve.” Currently, 10 percent of 
graduate fees are set aside for this 
purpose, as are 10 percent of 
undergraduate fees to the under­
graduate Student Senate. Starting 
I during the 1997-98 school year,
! student government at CMU con­
sists of the undergraduate Student 
Senate and the Graduate Student 
Assembly. After some of the activi­
ties fee monies are distributed to 
each body, the rest of the money 
goes to the JFC to distribute.
, The current proposal does not 
appear to be too controversial 
among Senators since it does not 
represent any financial change, 
according to Fitzkee. At last 
Thursday’s meeting, when Fitzkee 
spoke of the proposal, there was lit­
tle discussion on it from senators. 
An actual vote on the amendment 
will take place at the next Senate 
meeting, which is the Thursday 
after Thanksgiving. Fitzkee said 
that there is more involved with this 
issue than just moving GSA Social’s 
budget from the JFC to GSA.
“The potential issue for under­
graduates and for graduate stu­
dents is that now there is a stronger 
push than before to move graduate 
jnoney out of JFC and into full con­
trol of GSA,” said Fitzkee.
! According to Fernandes, some 
Jnembers of GSA feel that their 
ifnoney is not spent well by going to 
{he JFC, since graduate students do 
pot participate in many of the activ­
ities the JFC supports.
J “What we don’t see is the fre­
quency of participation that justi­
fies the amount of money we put 
|]nto the JFC. Right now, the cur­
rent ratio of money put into the JFC 
•is around 2.3 undergraduates for 
£very graduate student,” said 
Fernandes. He said that the partic-
ipation levels in organizations 
funded by the JFC is not close to 
that ratio. This concern, which a 
number of graduate students have 
raised, is reason to consider 
decreasing the GSA contribution to 
the JFC in the long term.
Fernandes said that there are 
other programs that graduate stu­
dents may benefit more from than 
the current ones. For example, he 
said that since many graduate stu­
dents are married with children, 
some family events may be more 
appropriate. He also said that fund­
ing to help graduate students 
attend conferences may be a way to 
better spend their activities fee.
“Obviously, the more money that 
is shifted out from the general con­
tribution of graduate students from 
the JFC to GSA accounts will mean 
a loss of revenue for the JFC, and 
thus less money that can be allocat­
ed to clubs and organizations,” said 
Liber, a senior political science and 
ethics, history, and public policy 
double major. “This would benefit 
graduate students properly, while 
putting a burden on all students to 
increase the activities fee to make 
up for the difference, or for clubs 
and organizations to conduct them­
selves in a more financially respon­
sible manner.” •
Fitzkee said that initially, GSA 
leaders wanted the constitutional 
amendment to provide even more 
funds directly to GSA. However, 
Fitzkee felt that such a proposal 
would have received much resis­
tance from Senate and that this 
intermediary proposal would help 
GSA Social get back on track for 
now. Such amendments require 
approval from both GSA and Senate. 
Discussions regarding giving more 
of the approximately $400,000 col­
lected in activities fees from gradu­
ate students directly to GSA may 
continue later this semester or early
next semester, according to Fitzkee.
“What we don’t see is the fre­
quency of participation that justi­
fies the amount of money we put 
into the JFC. Right now, the cur­
rent ratio of money put into the JFC 
is around 2.3 undergraduates for 
every graduate student,” said 
Fernandes. He said that the partic­
ipation levels in organizations 
funded by the JFC is not close to 
that ratio. This concern, which a 
number of graduate students have 
raised, is reason to consider 
decreasing the GSA contribution to 
the JFC in the long term.
Such a proposal would likely take 
place over time, in order to minimize 
the impact such a change would 
have on organizations funded by the 
JFC. These incremental shifts of 
money may be set up to not reduce 
the dollar amount given to the JFC, 
but represent an actual decrease in 
purchasing power due to inflation. 
Fitzkee said that he expects such a 
proposal to be controversial within 
Senate. He said such controversy 
runs the risk of creating a standoff 
between Senate and GSA, which he 
feels would not be productive. Such 
a situation would require a binding 
arbitration, which Fitzkee feels 
would not be beneficial.
Another solution to this issue 
would be to split graduate and 
undergraduate funds completely. 
Fitzkee says that he does not feel 
any Student Government leaders 
support this idea. He said such an 
idea runs the risk of a situation 
where there may be two organiza­
tions like Scotch ‘n’ Soda — one for 
undergraduates and one for gradu­
ates. He also said that while gradu­
ate students do not necessarily par­
ticipate in organizations as much as 
undergrads, they acknowledge that 
they do receive benefits from some 
organizations, such as Activities 
Board and The Tartan.
Are You a Non-Business Major? Do You Want to Improve Your Marketability
The Haas School of Business 
at the University of California, Berkeley 
Intensive BASE Summer Program IS FOR YOU! 
July 9 - August 17, 2001
11/15/2000, Criminal Mischief — Campus 
Police responded to Resnik to take a criminal mis­
chief report. When they arrived, they spoke with a 
resident who said that when she went to do her 
laundry in the basement, she found a roll of paper 
towels laying on the heat coil inside of an oven in 
the basement. Campus Police went to the base­
ment and found the roll of paper towels burnt, but 
not smoking. The oven was off and the paper tow­
els were removed by the reporting officer.
11/16/2000, Property Damage — At 5:27 
pm, Campus Police responded to the Margaret 
Morrison Stores on a call from a CMU student who 
stated that the big window in the Laundromat was 
broken and glass was everywhere. Upon arrival, 
Campus Police found that an 8 foot by 12 foot win­
dow in the front of the Laundromat was broken. A 
CMU student approached Campus Police to inform 
them that heard the glass break, but turned around 
and saw nothing. The student said that he suffered 
two small cuts on his back.
11/15/2000, Harassment by
Communication — A member of a student gov­
ernment organization entered the Campus Police 
Communication Center to file a report concerning 
pornographic emails. The victim stated that on 
/August 13, members of the governing organization 
received a pornographic email from a 
bitchysister.com. The original email was not kept, 
but a rebuttal was sent by the victim to bitchysis- 
ter.com, and all members of the governing organiza­
tion received another email on 11/15/00. Campus 
Police informed Computing Services.
11/14/2000, Theft — Campus Police respond­
ed to the CMU Police Communication Center to take 
a theft report. A CMU student stated that two weeks
ago, he got his bank statement and noticed some 
unusual charges. The victim said he called one of the 
companies that put unauthorized charges on his 
account, and the company promised to reimburse 
him immediately. The victim also stated that some­
body obtained his Mellon card number and used it 
on an x-rated site. The victim was told to contact. 
Mellon Bank to obtain a new card, and to have the 
present one cancelled.
11/13/2000, Criminal Mischief — Campus 
Police were dispatched to Mudge House for a report 
of vandalism. Upon arrival, Campus Police met 
with the victim who stated that while he slept, 
unknown persons placed shaving cream on his pil­
low, a wall, and the door to his room. The victim 
only noticed the shaving cream when he rolled 
over, in his sleep, and pressed his face into the shav­
ing cream. The victim also reported another inci­
dent on the same evening when persons turned off 
all the breakers to the C-tower lower floor. The vic­
tim chased the three males out of Mudge and down. 
Morewood Avenue.
- Campus Sergeant Ricci reviews all reports prior to 
release.
- Only three people on The Tartan staff see the 
reports: the Editor-in-Chief the News Editor, and the 
staffwriter typing the report.
-All personal names of complainants, victims, sus­
pects, and fraternities are omitted from the printed 
report. Ethnic descriptions and other personal details, 
are given only in the context of complete descriptions.
- Not every incident that occurs appears in the, 
report.
Compiled by 
Aseem Gupta
Egg Donor Needed
$25,000 Compensation
We are a loving, infertile 
couple hoping to find a 
compassionate woman to 
help us have a baby.
We're looking for a 
healthy, intelligent college 
student or coll3ge grad, 
age 21-33, with blue eyes 
and blonde or light brown 
hair. Your' gift of life would 
bring great joy.
Please contact us through 
our representative at 
1.800.776.7680.
HOBDOY DOES BREAKS BETTER!
,PR0TEST, from page A1 
Shamos, is that it would be easy for 
someone counting votes to punch 
out additional chads in ballots, thus 
invalidating them. “Supposedly 
everybody is watching everybody 
else,” he said. “But you can under­
stand how hectic it can be on elec­
tion night.”
For this reason, Shamos advo­
cates the use of a direct recording 
electronic (DRE) system of voting, 
wherein voters use a clearly laid out 
touch screen to place their votes.
“There are no spoiled ballots with 
DRE,” he said.
Polling stations using DRE also 
cannot run out of ballots, as many 
polling stations in Florida claimed 
that they had. These stations 
turned hundreds of voters, many 
of whom were minorities, away on 
Election Day, causing some to 
claim that those running these 
polling stations were racially 
biased.
That issue was one reason for a 
number of protesters in front of
the courthouse last Saturday. 
Leslie Mullins, a junior in civil 
engineering and public policy, said 
that she was at the protest “to sup­
port the minorities who I feel did­
n’t have an equal chance to vote.” 
Mullins said that she was not sur­
prised to hear reports of racial bias 
in the polling stations, but that that 
didn’t mean that nothing could be 
done about the problem. “If every­
one around the nation stands up,” 
she said, “we can change some­
thing.”
Arts, Sciences, and Engineering students will benefit from this rigorous, six-week 
summer curriculum that will include lectures, case studies, company visits, guest 
speakers and student presentations.
For more information, contact our website at: 
http://haas.berkeley.edu/Undergrad/BASE.html 
or via email at: BASE@haas.berkeley.edu
Learn the fundamentals of:
• Accounting • Marketing
• Finance * Organizational Behavior
• Hands-on market & financial research
• Business related computer applications
• Effective communication & presentation skills
• Prepare for the corporate recruiting process
Nuri Miller/Photo Staff ;
A diverse group of performances were given on Sunday at this semester’s Dancers’ Symposium. The production ! 
consists of a variety of shows, all choreographed and performed by CMU students.

---------------------------------------------------

CMMUsUtud enj oUiUih stU
Hand Tossed

---------------------------------------------------

THE TARTAN • NOVEMBER 20, 2000
>10 Camcgie Mettati Students 
$20MÔtfurÇuejts 
SS Children under 10 ucars/Speciaf•Menu
Tickets on sale 'Mondai/, November 13 
through rfftursdaij, November30, at the 
University Center Information 'Desi:, 
Monday through ‘JridaijB a.m. to 5p.m.
Guests wis,hin¿¡ to feast at the same tabic 
sfwuldpurchase tfieir tickets togctficr.
Hey, your dream job might not exist. But there are over 
40,000 other high tech job openings throughout New York State.
Students, faculty examine impact of Intel proposal Professor receives newtitle for work in geneticsINTEL, from page A1
manent facility in the Oakland
area.
There is also concern about 
the cost of renovating the base­
ment and its other possible uses. 
Intel has offered to spend an 
estimated $5 million to renovate 
approximately ten thousand 
square feet of the forty thousand 
square foot basement.Michael 
Murphy, dean of Student Affairs, 
has previously said that Intel’s 
temporary presence will eventu­
ally allow the University to fin­
ish the basement for student 
use, which is consistent with the 
UC’s mission.
Scott Sandage, a professor of 
history, said, however, that he 
wondered how the University 
could not have money to reno­
vate the UC, but they are able to 
set up a satellite campus in 
Sillicon Valley.
Some diverse alternatives to 
Intel’s basement renovation are 
to transform the UC basement 
into a recreation room, a food 
court for national vendors, a 
campus-wide mailroom, a bowl­
ing alley, a bar, or a miniature 
golf course.
Many members of the CMU 
community believe that the arrival 
of Intel will be good for Carnegie 
Mellon University and the sur­
rounding Oakland community. 
Jim Morris, Dean of the School of 
Computer Science, said, “Intel 
should come to Carnegie Mellon
with the intent to get to know the 
students and faculty. There should 
be a development of community 
support between Intel and the 
University.”
“I think almost everyone 
would agree that Intel’s long­
term presence in Pittsburgh, 
close to but not on the Carnegie 
Mellon campus, is a good thing. 
The problem we’re dealing with 
is how to get from here to there,” 
said Morris.
Nisha Patel, a junior computer 
science major, believes that stu­
dents and the administration 
should collaborate to develop an 
agreement that benefits the most 
people. “Faculty and students 
should continue working togeth­
er to make the final decision. 
Intel should contribute to the 
University Center’s educational 
atmosphere by sponsoring lec­
tures, but they should not be 
forced to provide internship 
opportunities for CMU students,” 
said Patel.
“The only opinions that ought 
to matter about this [situation] 
is the opinions of the students,” 
said Sandage. “As a faculty 
member, I don’t feel I have a 
right to have an opinion [on this 
issue].”
Not everyone has the same 
feelings about faculty involve­
ment in the decision, however. “I 
think faculty have a very good 
idea of how this University grows 
longitudinally,” said Paul Jacobs,
a fifth year senior in Business 
Administration and a member of 
the Student Activist 
Headquarters.
Jacobs said that he has talked 
to between five and ten profes­
sors who have all expressed 
opposition to the idea of moving 
an Intel facility into the base­
ment of the UC, even if it is only 
a temporary situation. “I dis­
agree with that sentiment that 
the UC is for students. [The fac­
ulty] have a very intelligent per­
spective. You can’t just write 
them off because they’re not 
using the space as much,” said 
Jacobs.
Suggestions for requiring Intel 
to provide internships or sponsor 
campus lectures for CMU stu­
dents have also been circulating 
through campus.
While several people have 
made the argument that Intel’s 
presence on campus will provide 
more internships for CMU stu­
dents, Sandage said that he 
doesn’t know of any shortage in 
internships available for stu­
dents now, thus making that 
argument less of a considera­
tion.
John Lehoczky, Dean of the 
School of Humanities and Social 
Sciences, said that he believes 
that Intel’s presence in 
Pittsburgh would be great for 
the city and University. “They 
want to create a digital green­
house to foster growth of tech-
nology in Pittsburgh. Moving 
onto Carnegie Mellon’s campus 
is only the first step,” said 
Lehoczky.
Dean Lehoczky said that he 
feels that the students’ concerns 
should be addressed, and he 
also offered a suggestion that 
would promote interaction 
between Intel and the communi­
ty. “Right now, they are negoti­
ating, and the students’ con­
cerns aré appreciated. Part of 
the negotiations should provide 
some assurances to the stu­
dents. I also think that the 
H&SS school has built positive 
community outreach services 
for the Pittsburgh community. I 
would like to see Intel partici­
pate in our outreach programs 
with non-profit institutions,” 
said Lehoczky.
Sandage said that he has won­
dered what real benefits this 
deal will have for CMU students. 
He said that students need to 
ask themselves whether Intel’s 
presence on campus will really 
fulfill the mission of the 
University Center. “I wish stu­
dents would speak up,” said 
Sandage.
Sandage said that the Intel issue 
was brought up in the September 
Faculty Senate meeting, but that 
the people present at the meeting 
were not asked to vote on their 
feelings on it.
Editor’s Note: Ish Harshawat 
contributed to this article.
Texas A&M remembers last year’s bonfire collapse
COLLEGE STATION, Texas (AP) — More 
than 25,000 people weathered driving rain 
Saturday to observe the one-year anniversary 
of the collapse of a log bonfire that killed 12 
Texas A&M students.
. “It was a healthy night for our university,” 
student Ricky Wood said. “For some it brought 
closure.”
Students and others huddled under umbrel­
las on the muddy campus polo fields for a 
; memorial ceremony at 2:42 am — the exact 
. place and time A&M’s 59-foot log stack col- 
; lapsed November 18,1999.
The log stack, which weighed more than 
two jumbo jets, toppled while it was being 
assembled for the school’s annual pep rally 
on the eve of its football game against arch 
rival University of Texas. In addition to those
killed, 27 were injured.
Family members of each student who died in 
the accident sat together under umbrellas in 
rows of seats in a 150-foot circle. Behind each 
set of seats stood a 5- to 6-foot wood pillar bear­
ing each victim’s name and the year they were 
to graduate.
“I think people got what they needed out 
of the ceremony,” student Laura Coward 
said. “It was very poignant. To me it was 
amazing to see so many people stand in the 
pouring rain to honor those who were 
killed.”
At the start of the 40-minute ceremony, 
lights on the fields were turned off and a 
memorial flame atop a platform in the circle’s 
center was lit. A cannon was then fired 12
The flame will be kept lit until 8 pm last 
Sunday; to correspond with the time the last 
victim died.
College Station officials also planned to ded­
icate a plaque and 12 antique-style lampposts 
inscribed with the names of the victims at a city 
park near the university.
Texas A&M President Ray Bowen said in June 
that the traditional bonfire would continue, but 
not until at least 2002 and only with greater 
school supervision and a professionally engi­
neered design.
In May, a five-member commission 
appointed and funded by the university 
blamed the collapse on flawed construction 
techniques and the lack of adequate super­
vision of students while assembling the 
stack.
JONES, from page A1 
“I’ve always been heavily engaged 
with [undergraduate researchers]. 
I really enjoy interacting with the 
students and watching them grow 
up into professionals. I’m happy to 
see the genetics field populated by 
my [interest in the subject], and I’m 
proud of the work my students do. 
It’s extremely rewarding.” .
Jones first came to CMU in 1974 
after teaching at Case Western 
Reserve University, and currently 
teaches Genetics and Advanced 
Genetics. About CMU, Jones says, “I 
like teaching here a lot. The students 
are very interested in the material, 
they’re fun to teach, and they’re very 
eager to work in research.”
Jones enjoys interacting with stu­
dents as much as she can, and likes 
to form lasting relationships with 
her students. She keeps in touch via 
email with many of her former stu­
dents, and she usually pays for a; 
group of undergraduate student 
researchers to accompany her to, 
the Regional Yeast Meeting, an 
annual convention that holds vari-, 
ous lectures and seminars on mole-, 
cular genetics. “It’s always a good: 
time, and the students often enjoy' 
themselves very much. It’s a good; 
experience, and I like to have that, 
time to get to know the students.; 
We become more like colleagues, 
and [our relationship] is more, 
friendly,” Jones says.
Computing Services works to fulfill student DSL needs
REALLOCATION, from page A1 
addresses, much like parking pass 
holders share unassigned spaces in 
a campus parking area. Rather 
then being assigned an IP address 
on a permanent basis, users are 
assigned an IP each time that they 
.renew their connection to the net­
work— therefore, once somebody 
releases their IP address when he 
or she logs off, or turns off his or 
her computer, the IP address is 
available for use by somebody 
else. However, because computers 
using dynamic addressing do not 
have the same IP at all times, com­
puters running Web sites, and 
serving files to users over the 
Internet are not good candidates 
for dynamic IP addresses.
While the dynamic addressing 
solution has already been intro­
duced by Computing Services, 
some students who were waiting 
for static IP addresses were appar­
ently not informed of the new 
option. “There was confusion 
over what we had to do,”, said 
David Blackwood, a junior in 
industrial design. “They 
[Computing Services] were not 
communicating very well. Had 
we registered for a dynamic IP 
address, we would have had it 
working much earlier, but nobody
told us that.”
According to Computing 
Services, the University is not 
requiring DSL users to use dynam­
ic addressing for all machines. 
However, the also said that due to 
the shortage of network 
resources, they may be forced to 
limit the number of static address­
es assigned to each user — some 
subscribers use multiple IP 
address for more than one com­
puter, or some network devices 
such as printers. In an email 
obtained by The Tartan that was 
sent to all CMU DSL customers,: 
subscribers were asked to “relin­
quish any IP addresses currently 
not in use,” and, “where appropri-! 
ate, change the ‘mode’ of address­
ing for each registered machine 
from static to dynamic.” 
Computing Services hopes to: 
entice static IP address holders to 
switch to dynamic addressing by 
holding a drawing for 150 t-shirts 
for any user who gives up a static 
IP address in favor of dynamic 
addressing before 12 noon on 
Wednesday. The t-shirt features 
a student with a notebook com­
puter tucked under his arm say­
ing, c/I gave up my static IP 
address and all 1 got was this stu­
pid t-shirt.”
TODAY’S JOB OPENING #0214
JOB TITLE: Senior Project Manager.
SALARY: How much do you want?
DESCRIPTION: Create, supervise, play in 
spacious corner office.
Low pressure, short hours. 
Quick promotions.
REQUIREMENTS: College experience.
Knowledge of video games 
and movies a plus. 
International travel required.
OTHER: Monthly bonuses.
Mornings optional.
'
Carnegie Mellon Invites you 
to the 2000
Madrigai (Dinner
9'é Quests are invited 
to wear traditionalcfotfe
Mixed Safad (jteens 
Cornish (Janie'Jicif mit ft 
‘Wild '/¿ce Staffing 
‘.Koot 'Vegetable Mcdfetj 
‘Jfearttj‘Breads with Swcr.t 'Butter 
‘Wussaifc 
'fruits of the ') orest 'J’ic
¿poHsotaíbt) Office of Student Activities ami Ifrinidf 
'for more injomiatioit, contact Student Actiiñties 26S-fi7(l1

---------------------------------------------------

Forum
20 November 2000THE TARTANPage A6
Free museum access provides great opportunity for students
Carnegie Mellon students’ most frequent 
! complaint is that the administration doesn’t 
; listen to the students about issues which 
; affect them. The University Administration 
; has tried to alleviate these accusations by 
; -recently holding a dinner to gather feedback 
1 from the students and community members 
i about a raise in tuition. Although this demon- 
' strates the school’s dedication to the opinion 
of its students, the dinner was nevertheless 
ineffective.
At times, it seems as if the administration 
puts in litde effort to actively gathering feed­
back from students about major decisions 
which will affect them. For instance, the pos­
sibility of an Intel solutions center was not dis­
cussed with students until three weeks after 
the official negotiations. Only after seeing the 
students’ great concerns about this situation 
has Dean of Student Affairs Michael Murphy 
begun enlightening students about the vast 
changes this addition will incur on the 
! University environment.
Another example lies in the appointment of 
the current dean of H&SS. The dean of H&SS 
is a significant figure who will guide the col­
lege and its students in the coming years; 
however, a selection committee of only facul­
ty members was organized to make the cru­
cial decision. This process was, in fact, kept 
secret from students and even students who 
were concerned had no venues to voice their 
concerns.
-These two examples highlight the 
University’s disregard to its students’ opinions 
! when it comes to making major decisions that 
affect them. However, the University has
made attempts to assuage the recent com­
plaints from the students. Currently, there 
are two main venues through which students’ 
voices are heard: the Student Advisory 
Council (SAC) and Student Government. The 
former is a committee comprised of voluntary 
students who serve on advisory councils for 
their respective schools within the University. 
However, a survey of these SACs will reveal 
that many of the same students are on these 
councils. This sample, not representative of 
all students, provides the SAC with a limited 
perspective and affirms the immediate need 
for Administration to improve its SACs selec­
tion process. The second venue, Student 
Government, also proves ineffective in that it 
was not informed about the Intel solutions 
center or involved in the selection of the dean 
of H&SS.
How can the University achieve an element 
of their mission statement, "to pursue the 
advantages provided by a diverse and rela­
tively small university community, open to the 
exchange of ideas ..." if ideas are not 
exchanged with students?
The University should not make critical 
decisions that affect students considerably 
without discussing them with the students 
and members of the community. The dinner 
held to discuss the tuition increase is one way 
in which the administration is responding to 
the rights of the students. The University 
should proactively gather feedback from a 
sample representative of all students. They 
will begin by expanding the various channels 
of communication between the University 
and the student.
Administrators must do better job of getting input from campus
The Office of Student Affairs recently orga­
nized a coalition of different groups, includ­
ing Student Senate, College of Fine Arts, 
Office of the Provost, Student Dormitory 
Council, and Graduate Student Assembly, to 
fund a new service for CMU students. The ini­
tiative will give CMU students free admit­
tance to several museums and similar institu­
tions around Pittsburgh. Students should 
take advantage of this new program when it 
i Becomes available and those organizing it 
-should be commended.
1 tc The first year of student museum access 
will cost each of the six groups funding it 
only $4,000. The program is a bargain com­
pared to the PAT bus deal; students are not 
being asked to pay additional fees to cover 
the cost. Instead, once Dean of Student 
Affairs Michael Murphy gives the service the 
go-ahead, students will be admitted to 
almost any museum in the area for free. This 
is a good example of the University provid­
ing a quality service to the student body for 
! a very reasonable price.
Students should make use of their ability to 
i implore the cultural and educational oppor- 
! unities Pittsburgh has to offer. CMU students 
| .j^ill be able to visit any of the Carnegie Art 
! _find Natural History Museums, the Andy 
| ^Warhol Museum, and the Carnegie Science 
1 -.Center. Depending upon circumstances, stu­
dents may also eventually be able to visit the 
Heinz History Center or the Mattress Factory 
for free. This is a very broad range of institu­
tions, covering many of the areas of interest 
of the student body. With the PAT bus deal 
already in place, this gives CMU students a 
wonderful opportunity to explore more of 
Pittsburgh and its art and history without 
having to pay a cent. Students will not only 
benefit from the increased exposure to the 
arts, but also from the increased opportunity 
to explore Pittsburgh.
By encouraging students to explore 
Pittsburgh’s educational opportunities, CMU 
better achieves its responsibility of providing 
students with a well-rounded educational 
and cultural experience.
This new service will help some students 
with their coursework. Industrial design 
majors, for example, will be able to see the 
new Aluminum By Design collection coming 
soon to the Carnegie Museum of Art for free. 
Other majors from history to engineering will 
directly benefit from this lowered barrier to 
entry to Pittsburgh's fine museums. Students 
of every major can and should benefit from a 
day trip to see the dinosaurs or sculptures.
As good as this program is, it can be still 
better. The student body would also benefit 
from a similar deal with Phipps Conservatory 
and the National Aviary. The University of 
Pittsburgh already has a program in place, 
very similar to the one about to be available 
here, with these institutions. Not only are 
these worthy places to visit for just about 
everybody, but free admission to them will 
also help students interested in drawing or 
photography with their work. Futhermore, 
future funding for this program is undecided. 
It would be a shame to see such a great idea 
fall by the wayside so the groups involved 
should commit to funding this service in the 
years to come.
This is a great example of diverse groups 
on campus coming together to accomplish 
something that benefits all students. Once 
the program becomes available, organizers 
should carry their momentum forward by 
publicizing this service and providing fund­
ing in the future. Students should take advan­
tage of this exceptional opportunity to 
explore these cultural, educational, and 
entertaining opportunities and stop com­
plaining that there is nothing worthwhile to 
do in Pittsburgh.
THE TARTAN
Carnegie Mêlions Student Newspaper Since 1906 
EDITORIAL BOARD
ISH HARSHAWAT, Editor-in-Chief
SETH MANDEL, Managing Editor 
SARA STILLE, News Editor 
CHRISTINA KOSHZOW, Forum Editor 
CHRISTOPHER CHUNG, Sports Editor 
JOANNA SMILEY, Co-Arts & Living Editor 
ANDY FRANCIS, Co-Arts & Living Editor 
SR1RAM GOLLAPALU, Science & Technology Ed. 
BRAD GRANTZ, Business Editor 
GREG NOFI, Entertainment Editor 
JUSTIN SUISSA, Art Editor 
BRYAN KAPLAN, Photo Editor 
ASEEM GUPTA, Online Editor 
CHRIS MESSINA, Online Design Editor 
MICHAEL ZIMMER, Dossier Design Editor 
LAURA MARTIN, Dossier Co-Literary Editor 
JOSEPH TAGUE, Dossier Co-Literary Editor 
JENNIFER LIU, Advertising Manager 
BALAJI SARPESHKAR, Copy Manager
ASHA PATHAK, Business Manager 
BLAKE ENGEL, Personnel Manager 
LANCE BROWN, Production Manager 
KAI ZHENG, Systems Manager 
BETTY 10M, Darkroom Manager 
ERIN SZET0, Special Projects Manager 
PRESTON TREICHEL, Asst. Sports Editor 
BETH POWELL, Asst. Entertainment Editor 
SR1RAM VAIDHYANATHAN, Asst. Science & Tech Ed. 
VINCENT CHAN, Asst, Advertising Manager 
SHAINA MCGRATH, Assistant Photo Editor 
PETER WANG, Asst. Darkroom Manager 
SARA HENNEBERGER, Asst. Production Mgr.
CONTRIBUTING EDITORS 
Elaine Boland, Matt Brun,Behnam Farahpour, 
Bradley Feam, Cassandra Knight, Christopher 
May, Lorelei Laird, Jonathan Pearce, Anne Ray, 
Erica Yamada
7 '
hip/
Justin Sulssa/Art EditorElection sparks amusement outside U.S.
LaRita Y. Hamilton
Americans are not the only people 
interested in this year’s ongoing election 
process. The entire world is waiting to 
find out who the next modern superpow­
er will be. The German daily Berlinger 
Zeigtung called this year’s proceedings 
“chaotic” and added that it would not be 
so important if the drama was over a 
mayoral election, but not the most power­
ful man in the world.
So instead of continuing to sit on the 
edge of their seats, waiting for the result, 
they laugh. What else is there to do? Well, 
some countries sent premature congratu­
lations, but we’ll get to that.
Italy, which is the constant butt of 
jokes concerning its very dramatic and 
often confusing political situations, is 
amused by the confusion. “A day as a 
banana republic” the daily newspaper La 
República touted. Thursday, November 
9, an Italian newscast showed an 
American newspaper wdth the headline, 
“Bush Appears to Win.” Many stateside 
newspapers had to reckon with “the 
morning after.”
Being six hours ahead of Eastern 
Standard Time added to the frustration of 
learning the true results of the election. I 
missed the period in which Gore was 
thought to be the president. When I woke 
up on November 8, Bush was president 
and I was trying to figure out how I could 
take a leave of absence for the next four 
years. By lunch, there was no president 
and I had no idea what was going on. By 
dinner, I was thoroughly confused and 
was forced to rely on updates from my
parents, who had instructions to call my 
cellular phone when something major 
occurred. They have yet to call. I think 
they are just as confused as the rest of the 
world. Or I gave them the wrong number 
in which case I probably would have been 
the victim of a “hanging chad.”
American government is usually point­
ed to as an example for success or the 
poster child for the paragon of failure. At 
this point, it is a combination of both with
world leaders because of the precedence 
in internationalism that the Clinton 
administration set. Even Kofi Anan, 
Secretary of the United Nations, com­
mented without naming names that the 
White House needed someone “who is 
open to the outside world, not someone 
who is unilateralist and believes that the 
United States can do everything by 
imposing its will.” Diplomats see Gore as 
the heir to the Clinton administration.
So instead of continuing to sit on the edge of their seats, waiting for the result, they laugh.
a bit of jocularity thrown in for kicks. A 
Swiss bank is offering financial deriva­
tives named after the candidates. Are you 
ready for this? The Bush option offers 
shares in Philip Morris Co., Pfizer Inc. 
(That’s the makers of Viagra to you!), and 
Microsoft among others. The Gore 
options come with shares of Fannie Mae, 
Freddie Mac, Devry Inc. and United 
Technologies Corp. Act fast or you may 
miss out!
A large part of international reaction, 
negative or otherwise, stems from the 
media hype. Early on the election looked 
like a popularity contest. Who kissed 
Oprah? Who didn’t? Who cares? 
Televised debates and talk show appear­
ances are a part of the glitz, but foreign 
politicians wearied quickly and only 
hoped that the man with the best foreign 
affairs record and not the most handsome 
won. For many countries, that man is A1 
Gore. While Bush was busy giving new 
meaning to the saying “Don’t mess with 
Texas,” Gore was building bridges.
Gore found many supporters among
Eager to make nice with Bush after he 
had been prematurely declared presi­
dent-elect, China, Japan, Indonesia, 
Germany and India sent congratulatory 
messages. Television networks and news­
papers that relied on computer projec­
tions and early reports from the “official" 
press association of the election jumped 
the gUn a little early in spreading the 
news. Has the press association been 
“officially” fired yet?
Regardless of what the final outcome 
may be, Bush and Gore, God bless them, 
are going down in the history books with 
the likes of Aaron Burr. And if there was 
anything I learned from AP History my 
junior year in high school, it was that 
Aaron Burr was a Loser, with a capital 
“L.” I can assure you that I learned little 
else because I only got a 3 on the exam.
LaRita Y. Hamilton is a junior creative 
writing major who currently resides in 
Milano, Italy. She blames Ralph Nader; 
Dick “Cop-killer bullets for all” Cheney, and 
Janet Reno for the “Florida Fiasco. ”
Winner must take steps to save the Presidency
Christian Restifo
Let’s face it. Many people think the 
Presidency has been poisoned for the 
next four years. No matter who finally 
wins, the opponent’s supporters will 
always question the winner’s “moral 
authority.” Should Bush claim Florida 
and thus the Electoral College, Gore’s 
supporters will always say that Bush only 
won because he didn’t let a fair and accu­
rate vote take place.
Should Gore obtain the Presidency, 
Bush’s supporters can say that Gore was­
n’t actually elected. He became President 
only through legal maneuvering that vio­
lated the law and spirit of the 
Constitution. His version of democracy 
consisted of recounting until you win.
I, however, believe that whoever takes 
the oath of office can rescue the 
Presidency. It will take bold leadership, 
an amendment, a few laws, and some 
well-spent money.
Whoever wins must dedicate himself 
and his administration to ensuring that 
this election debacle never happens again. 
First and foremost, the Electoral College 
must be torn down. It served its purpose 
when America was a young country with 
a limited communication infrastructure, 
but it now distorts the election process.
Candidates are forced to target those 
states that just happen to add up to 270 
votes. If you’re lucky, you’re in one of 
those states. If not, well then you’re only 
lucky if you support the person who’s 
most likely going to win that state.
By going to a popular vote, we force 
candidates to campaign in front of all 
Americans, not just residents of 
Pennsylvania, Wisconsin, Michigan, and 
-Florida. Third party candidates would
also receive more exposure. Although 
he’s a nut and his Green Party’s platform 
would destroy our economy, Ralph Nader 
was nonetheless given the shaft in the 
election. He got around two percent of 
the popular vote, but the Electoral 
College essentially shut him out.
After pushing through an amendment 
to remove the Electoral College, the new 
President should champion electronic vot­
ing. Most voting machines and punch card 
systems were designed before 1900. You’d 
think with all of our vaunted technology 
that we could have more than 10% of vot­
ers using electronic ballot machines.
These machines provide instant results 
when votes are tabulated, and recounting 
becomes a moot point. Programmers can 
design ballots to be much more intuitive. 
A voter would be asked before pressing 
the “submit” button if he or she definitely 
wanted to vote for a particular candidate 
or proposition.
Now, I’d be tfre last person to advocate 
another government program, but I think 
requiring the federal government to share 
the burden of the cost would be wise. 
Local communities bear the responsibility 
of managing elections, bijt their budgets 
often allow little room for “voting capital 
expenditures.” Issuing only broad guide­
lines for the machines would spur compe­
tition as local communities pool their 
resources to shop for equipment.
In addition to all electronic voting, the 
new President should advocate opening 
polls for 24 hours. This “day of voting” 
should take place across the United States 
at the same time, regardless of time zones. 
Thus, if polls were open from 6 am to 6 am 
in Pennsylvania, they would be open from 
3 am to 3 am in California. A 24-hour time 
period gives everyone a better chance to 
vote, especially those who work odd shifts 
or have family commitments.
Finally, the new President must push 
for a law that prohibits states from releas­
ing results until all polls are closed. Even 
then, polls must not be released until a 
winner has been proven beyond a doubt. 
If the leader has a 31,000 vote margin, 
and 30,000 votes are not yet counted, 
then you can declare a winner.
A “closed” voting system would prevent 
the “poll poison” effect caused when 
states in the east declare winners while 
polls are still open in the west. It would 
also prevent the Florida flip-flop that we 
saw on most major TV networks.
Some people advocate going even fur­
ther by prohibiting the media from 
“declaring” winners or conducting exit 
polls. I trust most readers are smart 
enough to understand that such laws 
would blatantly violate the First 
Amendment. We all have the right to ask 
anyone how he or she voted and then 
repeat that information. (And we all have 
the right to not answer how we voted.)
Others have touted these ideas in one 
form or another for a long time. However, 
the new President will be uniquely posi­
tioned to bring all these ideas to bear on 
the problems with our electoral system. 
By doing so, he would reclaim some of 
the moral authority that’s already been 
lost in this election and prove that he can 
be a true leader.
Finally, I’d like to break from my origi­
nal line of thought and comment on the 
position of the United States in the world. 
More than -a few countries are taking 
delight in our Constitutional quandary. 
Fidel Castro has even offered to send elec­
tion observers to the U.S.. All I can say to 
those who would laugh at the U.S. is that 
at least we aren’t killing each other in the 
streets to decide this election. How many 
other countries can say that?
Christian M. Restifo is a first year Flex- 
Time MBA student at GSIA. His solution to 
the election is to simply name Martin Sheen 
from The West Wing as President.

---------------------------------------------------

THE TARTAN • NOVEMBER 20, 2000
Debating the details: two different views on election hold-ups
Enough alreadyKeep counting
Sean Mintus
I would like to take this opportunity to 
thank A1 Gore for recognizing a flaw in this 
year’s election process, and endeavoring to 
ensure that this discrepancy is dealt with in 
the most meticulous manner ... insofar as it 
involves his being placed in office. Let it be 
known that I do not believe for one second 
that Gore’s projected motivations are in any 
way legitimate. He’s a politician, and as 
politicians go, not the most integrity-laden 
of the bunch, so is there any reason that we 
should view his nitpicking as action 
inspired by a desire to see the American 
election process carried out in a forthright 
and just manner?
Methinks not. Thus far, Gore’s camp has 
focused on recounting ballots in order to 
counteract any and all mistakes that might 
have taken place upon tallying votes. So 
what were these mistakes? Let’s take a 
look. First and foremost are the falling 
chads. You see, when a ballot has a hole 
punched through it, as is the adopted sys­
tem in many areas, a “chad,” or small circu­
lar piece of that ballot is misplaced.
¦ Problem is, these chads do not always fall 
out and therefore negate the ballot when it
• is time to be counted by a computer. In 
addition to the chad discrepancy, we have 
thousands upon thousands of Floridian 
ballots that were not marked, marked 
twice, or accidentally negated. ,
So Gore wants to take care of these 
inaccuracies. He wants to right the 
wrongs and be 100 percent sure that 
democracy is preserved. But here’s a 
question. Granted, the difference in the 
number of popular votes in Florida is less 
than any other state’s, but why not ques­
tion the integrity of elections held in 
other states? After all, if Floridians can 
screw up, so can anyone else. They might 
get a bit too much sun, but overall, are no 
less capable than any other voter pool.
This is where Gore loses any shred of 
credibility in my eyes, and where Bush
¦ stands tall. The popular vote difference in
- other states that Gore has won is so close
¦ that a recount might very well swing the 
' vote and subsequent electoral votes over 
-to Bush’s side. Gore won Vermont by 
; fewer than 30,000 votes. There were over
20.000 votes tossed out in one county of
¦ Florida alone. Gore won Wisconsin and 
Iowa by a combined 9,000 popular votes. 
So why hasn’t Gore questioned the validi­
ty of these results? Might it be because 
the three states combined don’t have the 
electoral presence of Florida? Of course 
he’s not going to challenge decisions in 
states that he’s already won, for obvious­
ly no miscalculations occurred there. And 
throughout, Bush has remained silent, 
content to let the process run its course, 
and confident that if he is meant to win, 
he will.
Bush won New Hampshire by a meager
6.000 votes, hardly a landslide. Why has­
n’t Gore run on up there to preserve polit­
ical virtue? Oh, wait, I’m sorry — New 
Hampshire only has four electoral votes. 
Evidently, a state without the necessary 
fifteen electoral votes to put Gore in 
office isn’t worth the Vice President’s 
attention.
What it all boils down to in the fact that 
Gore isn’t doing this because he wants to 
make sure that the American public is 
justly represented. He is doing this 
because he wants the presidency. If he 
were to simply admit that he is trying to 
squeeze enough votes out of the citrus 
state to grant him office, then at least, for
once, he’d be saying something honest.
Ultimately, the responsibility for this 
whole mess does not fall upon any of the 
candidates involved in the election. It 
falls upon you, the registered voters. You 
screwed up. The Electoral College was 
originally formed because our country’s 
leaders didn’t think that your average, 
run-of-the-mill country bumpkin was fit 
to select a president. Until now, this has 
forced me to abstain from voting in a 
presidential election. 1 always thought 
that unless a vote truly and accurately 
conveyed public opinion, it was meaning­
less. However, after seeing what hap­
pened in this election, I am thinking of 
reconsidering. Let’s look at a few 
instances where we, the American public, 
just dropped the ball.
- In Florida’s Volusia County, 320 votes 
were tossed aside because someone acciden­
tally reset the precinct’s voting machine 
diskette to zero.
- In Gadsden County, over 2,000 votes 
were negated because voters had voted 
for more than one candidate. Now, thanks 
to Gore’s efforts, (and this is a truly stun­
ning moment in political history) can­
vassers are now “interpreting” the bal­
lots. Yes, through nothing more than sim­
ple conjecture, people will now attempt 
to discern who the voter intended to cast 
his or her ballot for, based on scratches, 
stray marks,
or any half- 
punched 
holes on the 
ballot.
- In Polk 
County, a large 
number of vot­
ers decided to 
punch the 
paper slots on 
their ballots and 
then proceed to 
write the name 
of their chosen 
candidate on 
the “write-in” 
portion of 
the bal­
lot. If 
you
Andy Baker
I can’t help but wonder where this coun­
try is going. To recap, it’s been thirteen days 
since Americans went to the voting booths 
to select the chief executive for the next four 
years, and we still don’t have a president­
elect. As it stands, Florida is the only state 
standing between us and the final decision 
of who won Election 2000, and the results 
there are as nebulous as the perpetual over­
cast hanging over Pittsburgh. Meanwhile, 
Americans and American politics are the 
laughing stock of everything from Jay Leno 
to the BBC — even more so than The Jerry 
Springer Show.
So one may ask, how did we get into this 
mess of an election nightmare? Who is to 
blame for this crazy situation? Is there a 
way out? Should the Electoral College be 
eliminated? Certainly, this election has 
generated many questions about the 
democratic process, but hopefully said 
process will survive this bout of turbu­
lence more or less intact.
In order to answer some of those ques­
tions, it is important to have some back­
ground information (and, being an informa­
tion systems major, information is my spe-
need me
to explain why this is a bad 
idea, then you are one of the people I am 
talking about.
- As far as the butterfly ballot goes, 
Florida law aside, I never would have 
thought that so many problems would arise 
from people’s inability to follow an arrow 
extended from their candidate’s name to 
the proper hole.
While certain discrepancies are a result 
of government officials being unprepared 
to effectively deal with the ballots, far too 
many had to do with people not being able 
to figure out where to fill in a circle, or 
punch a hole, or just pull a damned lever. 
I feel sorry for you, and sleep easily at 
night knowing that I refrained from cast­
ing a ballot for any presidential candidate 
and am therefore not counted amongst 
your ranks.
Sean Mintus is a sophomore creative and 
professional writing major. He didn’t want 
to write this — his editor made him do it.
Gabriel Sabourin/Art Staff
cialty). With the election this close, not only 
does every vote matter, but also getting an 
accurate assessment of the vote is of vital 
importance. This is the reason why states 
like Florida have protections like an auto­
matic recount if the vote is closer than 1%. It 
also explains why Gore has been so strident 
to do all this recounting. Any legal wrangling 
to cut short or deny efforts to this end pose a 
serious threat to the democratic process, 
since it represents an attempt to silence the 
voice of the people.
But is Gore simply “trolling for votes,” as 
Republicans such as Florida’s Secretary of 
State Katherine Harris are so fond of claim­
ing? Hardly. He wants what the rest of 
America wants: an accurate, timely count of 
the Florida ballots. Former Secretary of 
State James Baker has publicly criticized 
hand recounts, claiming that they are less 
accurate than machine recounts. However, 
an article on ABCNEWS.com would suggest 
that, in fact, machine counts (and recounts) 
are no better than hand recounts for the sim­
ple reason that machines pose their own 
sorts of accuracy problems. Even Pat 
Buchanan acknowledges that a large 
amount of his votes in Palm Beach County 
should’ve gone to Gore.
Another argument being made by some 
is that with the smaller voting power of 
states like Iowa, Oregon, and Wisconsin, 
Gore is ignoring their validity. Well, yes 
and no. Gore has a large enough lead in 
states like Wisconsin, Oregon, and Iowa 
that a recount wouldn’t change the result, 
so their electoral votes wouldn’t matter. If 
a recount did threaten his lead in those 
states, he’d be worried because it could 
push Bush over the top regardless of what 
happens in Florida, but since such a 
recount wouldn’t threaten his lead in 
those states, Gore has no cause to worry. 
Florida, however, will pretty much tip the 
balance in favor of one candidate or 
another, so it is of vital interest to both of 
the candidates.
Some would claim that “Dubya” has been 
perfectly willing to let the results speak for 
themselves, while Gore is insisting on 
“recounting until he likes the results.” 
However, this just isn’t the case. The Bush 
camp has been anything but silent on this 
issue. Everyone from Florida’s Secretary of 
State to James Baker to lawyers from the 
Bush campaign have been doing every­
thing in their power to stop all of the 
recounts, hindering an 
accurate tally of the votes. 
The Bush camp has also 
been fairly presumptuous
— pulling a “Dewey 
Defeats Truman” by acting 
as though Bush has already 
won when the election is so 
close that it could go either 
way.
Finally, there is the issue of 
the voters who were per­
plexed by the ballot in Palm 
Beach County. I have heard 
numerous arguments that those 
who cannot properly fill out a 
ballot should not be allowed to 
vote. This is just preposterous 
and borders on anti-democratic. 
While I agree with the Bush 
campaign’s argument that 
the public should've 
taken the time to 
\ I check out the ballots 
V^ either before or on 
/ I Election Day, I don’t
L feel that this means
that their votes 
should be disquali­
fied. The voting pub­
lic, in a move of either 
apathy or sloth (or both), didn’t bother 
to go check the ballot in Palm Beach County 
when it was available to the public. 
However, this doesn’t necessarily mean that 
they’re too ignorant to vote. Both candidates’ 
“get out the vote” efforts were moderately 
successful in increasing voter turnout, but 
what they should’ve done (hindsight being 
20/20) is also encouraged the voters to 
check out the ballot before Election Day and 
make sure that there was no confusion. They 
probably also should’ve made sure that the 
voting machines worked properly.
In short, while I see plenty of things going 
wrong with this election, I have to believe 
that not all of it is Gore’s fault. It is easy to lay 
the blame for a nation’s problems solely at 
the feet of one person. However, history has 
shown time and time again that there really 
are “two sides to every story.”
Andy Baker is. a junior information systems 
major who did not want to be caught up in an 
election crisis, but will deal with it as most 
Americans do — lackadaisically.
THE TARTAN
Carnegie Mellon's Student Newspaper Since igo6
SENIOR STAFF 
Emily Landes
STAFFWRITERS 
Sara Amodio, Neil Babra, Clinton 
Brownley, Cliff Chien, Krissy Choi, 
Michael Cook, Cam Crews, Rob Cullen, 
Frank J. Fleming, Ryan Friedman, 
Debra Halpern, LaRita Hamilton, Ryan 
Hamilton, Cynthia Kos, Erin Lucas, 
Sean Mintus, Damian Olesnycky, Peter 
Patterson, Jodi Poniewaz, Srinivas 
Pullela, Jennifer Resick, Christian 
Restifo, Paul Richelmi, Danny A'. 
Silitonga, Surya Singh, Lynn Tao, Cory 
Tong
ART
Matthew Blum, Lindsay Clark, Jamie 
Divine, Adam Grossi, Reagan Heller, 
Gabriel Sabourin, Alissa Taylor
COMICS
Avinash Baliga, Kevin Burns, Yang Cai, 
Martin Hock, James Kenney, Ann 
Lewis, To Han Lu, Neal Martin, Jason 
Slater
PHOTO
Katie Aerni, Erica Barnes, Jeff Cullers, 
Anthony D’Auria, Anjanelle Delancey, 
Emily Gensheimer, Matthew Lanken, 
Nuri Miller, Michael Raisman, Matthew 
Trentacoste
DARKROOM
Eric Barker
PRODUCTION
Eve Chen, John Davin, Serena Lam, 
Douglas Yung
COPY
Stacey Becker, Joyce Boss, Kristin Lala‘, 
Lorelei Laird, Meredith Powers, Emma 
Rehm, Julie Watt
JUNIOR STAFF
David Anderson, Sharad Bajaj, Andy 
Baker, Thomas Capasso, Brad Cohen, 
Dave del Rosario, Dave DiFilippd, 
Aseem Garg, Melissa Horne, John 
Hursh, Lirona Katzir, Christopher Kim, 
Anish Kumar, Elizabeth Levin, Charles* 
Martin, Andrew McKeon, Julia Myers, 
Rob Pinkerton, Jennifer Schaupp, 
Marissa Staller, Adam Steele, Sabrina 
Small, Sharon Su, Vivek Sridharan, 
Yinglan Tan, Tifanie Tiberio, Sean 
Waters, Daniel Wood
The Tartan is the student newspaper of 
Carnegie Mellon University. It is a weekly 
newspaper published by students during the 
fall and spring semesters, at no cost to mem­
bers of the University community. It is print­
ed by Western Pennsylvania Printing, Ind. 
Subscriptions are available for the semester 
or academic year. The editorials appearing at 
the beginning of the opinion section are the 
official opinion of The Tartan editorial board. 
Columns and political cartoons are the opin­
ions of individual creators. The Tartan 
reserves the right to reject or condense any 
column or political cartoon. Letters to the 
Editor are opinions of authors who are usual­
ly, but not necessarily, members of the 
University community. A letter intended for 
publication must be signed and include the 
writer’s address and phone number for verifi­
cation. Names may be withheld upon 
request. The Tartan requests that letters be 
no longer than 350 words. The Tartan 
reserves the right to condense or reject any 
letter. Letters to the Editor must be submit­
ted by 5 pm the Thursday before publica­
tion. Copyright © 2000 by The Tartan. Ttfe 
Tartan editorial board reserves the right tb 
withhold from publication any copy it deems 
unfit for publication. Office: University 
Center Room 314. Phone: 412/268-2111. 
Mailing address: The Tartan/Box 17/Carnegie 
Mellon University/Pittsburgh, PA 15213- 
3890.
Email: tartan@andrew.cmu.edu 
Funded in part by your Activities Fee.
All rights reserved.
Library of Congress 
ISSN#:0890-3107.
The Tartan is a member of 
the Associated Press.
With Thanksgiving Break coming up, the end of the semester is just around the 
corner. To find out how students feel about their time here we asked:
Describe your experience at CMU in a few words:
A PERSON'S OPINION
Compiled by Sara Stille 
Photos by Behnam Farahpour
Jennifer Stuber
Junior
Mechanical Engineering 
“Frustrating.”
Matt Healey
Masters Student 
GSIA
“Rigorous.”
Cinnamon Carr
Sophomore
Social and Decision Sciences
“It’s been a wonderful experience 
and I’ve enjoyed everything I’ve done 
here.”
Brighten Godfrey
Junior
Computer Science 
“I’m never bored.”
Crystal Hall
Sophomore
Physics
“No sleep, no sleep, no sleep.”

---------------------------------------------------

ÎMIMMÊÊÈ
§ oldman 
aclis
MIIMDS. WIDE OPEN?" 
www.gs.com
Goldman Sachs, an equal opportunity employer, does not discriminate in employment on any basis that is prohibited by federal, state or local laws. © 2000 Goldman, Sachs & Co.
Goldman, Sachs & Co.
Global Operations Division
Tuesday, December 5th, 2000 
5:30 p.m. - 7:15 p.m. 
Mellon Auditorium
You want to work with smart, interesting people. 
We want to keep hiring them.
If you are a first-year MBA student looking for an exciting and 
challenging summer experience, please join us.

---------------------------------------------------

THE TARTAN • NOVEMBER 20. 2000
classified
Travel
#1 Spring Break Vacations! Best Prices 
Guaranteed! Cancún, Jamaica, Bahamas 
& Florida. Sell Trips, Earn Cash St Go 
Free! Now hiring Campus Reps. 1 -800- 
234-7007 endlesssummertours.com
Spring Break 2001. Student Express 
offers Mexico, Jamaica, Florida, and Texas 
with low prices and the most reliable air. 
CAII today fo9r a brochure and ask how 
you can go for FREE !!! 1-800-SURFS-UP 
or www.studentexpress.com
SURVIVE SPRING BREAK 2001! All the 
hottest destinations/hotels! Campus sale 
representatives and student organizations 
wanted! Visit inter-campus.com or call 1- 
800-327-6013 The Tribe has spoken!
For Sale
FLOWERS for romance, birthday, pla- 
tonic, formals, and more ... make some­
one smile. Group discounts. ALEX'S 
FLOWERS. 687-ALEX. 687-4128. Call 
before noon for same day delivery. 
www.alexsflowers.com
GET GREEK STUFF F*A*S*T!
Connectsports.com ships your GREEK 
stuff fastest in the nation. Formal Favors, 
Sportwear and Paddles. 1 Oam - 8pm 
everyday. Save money and get fast ser­
vice. Connectsports.com. 1-800-929- 
1897.
Opportunities
Earn free travel! Become an intern for 
Council Travel - flexible hours! Fill out 
application at 118 Meyran Ave, Oakland, 
683-6602
Earn 51,000-52,000 this quarter with 
the easy Campusfundraiser.com three 
hour fundraising event. No sales 
required. Fundriaising dates are filling 
quickly, so call today! Contact 
Campusfundraiser.com at 1-888-923-
3238, or visit
www.campusfundraiser.com.
Pittsburgh Deli Company 728 
Copeland, Shadyside. Now hiring 
kitchen/counter positions. Reliable 25 
hrs/minimum. Call 412-682-3354 Ask 
for Scott, David, Geoffrey
Professors. Graudate students. Earn 
extra income evalutating books part- 
time. Looking for quality conscious book 
lovers. Complete info http://www.south- 
easternreviewboard.org/personnel/apply. 
htm
Restless, bored, someone/no one com­
pletely satisfy you -- www.loversplay- 
ground.com, Username: 
tdcrock@att.net, Pword: bn523i, Ad: 
22315 (co-eds)
Classified Rates
1-20 words.........S10.00/wk
21-50 words.........$12.00/wk
51-100 words.......$15.00/wk
MAIL TO:
The Tartan, Box 17 
Carnegie Mellon University 
Pittsburgh, PA 15213-3890
• Classifieds must be paid in cash 
or check before first run date
• On-campus departments and 
organizations may pay by journal 
transfer
• Due by 5 pm the Thursday 
before publication
HandTos es. HandTos 
the shnw tn wstch
FOOTBALL, from page A10 
ing in the annual battle for Big Ten 
i supremacy.
Coaches are the one constant in 
college football with the transience 
of the players, but the play on the 
: field is what malees this game truly 
: amazing.
I Five out of the past seven years 
, the winner has gone on to play for
• the national championship, three 
times coming out the victor. The 
high point, of course, was 1996, 
' when the two teams met in the title 
.tgame, with Florida coming out on 
. t0P-
While the Gators won that bat­
tle, the Seminóles have proven to 
be the slightly better team the past 
few years. Leading into this year's 
game, FSU is the only program 
. Spurrier has a losing record 
against, at 4-7-1. Florida State 
has won two titles to Florida's one, 
and FSU’s dominance is especially 
on exhibit at Doak Campbell stadi­
um, where Spurrier is 0-5-1.
Unfortunately for Florida, this 
year's game was in Tallahassee. 
Once again it carried national tide
implications, with the two teams 
coming in ranked three and four. 
The game wasn't that close, how­
ever, as Chris Weinke and Marvin 
“Snoop” Minnis led the Seminóles 
to a relatively easy 30-7 victory. 
The loss dropped Florida out of 
title contention, and guaranteed a 
controversial outcome of the BCS 
rankings at the end of the season.
Provided the top three teams 
win out, Oklahoma will be assured 
of a spot in the title game, but who 
comes out of the Florida precinct 
is still up in the air. Miami is 
ranked second in all of the polls, 
based on their victory against 
Florida State.
However, due to the strength-of- 
schedule factor, it is expected that 
FSU will leapfrog them to second 
in the rankings that really count. 
Whatever the outcome, the winner 
of the annual Florida-Florida State 
match-up will play a large role in 
the national tide picture.
Pete Patterson is a senior SDS 
major. He welcomes all responsible 
replies to his column.
Ynuthfua Tsdtsns defaect nn sessnn sno Tts unfuafTaaeo pdnmTse
by Brad GrantzBusiness Editor
The close to the 2000 Tartan football 
campaign couldn’t' have been scripted 
better even by a team of Hollywood script 
writers. However, the entire season con­
tained more peaks and valleys than the 
Sierra Nevadas. Even with injuries to the 
jartans’ key players, the CMU football 
squad persevered to extend a 26-season 
streak of winning records with a game ten 
smashing of Gannon University 48-7.
The Tartans entered the game with
field was first-year Ricardo Clarke. 
Affectionately known by the CMU radio 
world as “the Spark,” Clarke carried the 
football for 318 yards on 74 attempts. His 
big-time play ability was hampered 
toward the close of the season with a torn 
leg ligament, but still managed to see 
action of the field versus Gannon.
Also important was the ability of back- 
field mate Matt Strohl. While not carry­
ing the pigskin as frequently as Garrod, 
Clarke, and Zimpfer, Strohl (31 carries, 
152 yards) was a mainstay in an attack 
where blocking is the name of the game.
Not to be lost in the backfield shuffling
Ijirst-year halfback Ricardo Clarke, left, cuts to the left in the Tartans’ 10-3 win over the 
University of Rochester on October 28.
losses in three of their last four games 
against a formidable lineup that included 
Washington University (20-3 score), 
University of Chicago (20-6), and Grove 
City (14—10). Prior to the Gannon con­
test, offensive coordinator Rich Erdelyi 
told his crew that he thought their best 
game was yet to be played.
Disappointed with the inconsistencies 
shown on offense, he remarked that the 
team showed a drastic improvement in 
the trouncing of Division II Gannon. “We 
pulled through at the end of the year with 
a great team effort versus Gannon, that 
^vas in fact similar to the Frostburg State 
[ECAC Southwest championship] game 
last season.”
In 1999, the Tartans had one of the 
gost effective rushing attacks in all of 
^¡vision III football with seniors Mike 
Çàmpie and Mike Monsilovich. The task 
pf replacing the all-time greats fell to a 
group of running backs, including sopho­
more Drew Garrod.
: “I was extremely pleased with Drew 
Garrod’s improvement through the sea­
son,” said Erdelyi. Garrod finished the 
season as the team’s leading rusher with 
581 yards on 102 touches (5.7 yard aver­
age). Garrod steadily saw more time as 
the season progressed, especially as the 
offense was ravaged by injuries to junior 
quarterback Eric Zimpfer and senior wide 
receiver Mike McLaughlin.
I Also extremely important in the back-
was Zimpfer. Despite missing almost two 
complete games due to a partially sepa­
rated shoulder, Zimpfer’s leadership abil­
ity helped a young team coalesce into a 
offensive juggernaut in week ten. 
Zimpfer’s two-prong attack of running 
and passing forced opposing defensive 
coordinators to consider a number of out­
comes within the course of the game.
“The designed rollout does play an 
important role in our offense because it 
takes away some of the pass rush ability 
of the defense and makes the defense 
pick what they are going to guard 
against. If they cover the downfield 
recievers, I can run the ball. If they chose 
to come up to get me, I can dump the ball 
off to a back or reciever. It is a fairly safe 
play, but at the same time a very effective 
play,” said Zimpfer.
Zimpfer kept the ball himself on 116 
occasions. Disregarding sack yardage, he 
accumulated 525 yards in his shortened 
season. He completed 48 percent of his 
passes, and made 99 pass tries for 860 
yards and eight touchdowns. Six of those 
were to McLaughlin, who missed the last 
two games of the season with a leg injury.
“Losing Mike really hurt us towards the 
end of the year. Mike had a great season, 
and it was unfortunate for his career to 
end like it did. Having Mike on the field 
gave the defense a lot to worry about, and 
in turn opened up a lot of things for us ... 
Mike also gave our entire team confi­
dence because we all knew that with him 
in the game, we were only one play away 
from a touchdown,” commented Zimpfer.
“Mike was a terrific kid and had a great 
ability to read coverages,” said Eredlyi. 
He added that McLaughlin was able to 
draw man and a half and double team 
coverages.
“Defenses had to respect his big play 
ability and because of that, our running 
game benefited,” said Zimpfer.
McLaughlin caught 23 balls for 525 
yards to lead the receiving corps. A bril­
liant student, he will continue his educa­
tion at Ohio State’s Medical School.
Coming into the season, the Tartans 
had only two starters from 1999 on the 
offensive line, junior Roy Thompson and 
senior Mike Pignatiello. At times the unit 
experienced growing pains such as hold­
ing penalties and collapsing protection 
for the quarterback, the group was solidi­
fied by Pignatiello.
“Mike Pignatiello is a big loss because 
he was extremely good at recognizing 
defensive fronts,” said Erdelyi.
He continued, “He was a coach out 
there making the appropriate blocking 
calls. It [offensive line] probably takes 
more mental skill than any other position 
other than quarterback.”
While the offense struggled during a 
stretch of nine quarters without scoring a 
touchdown, the defense glistened due to 
great run defense and a strong lineback- 
ing group led by senior Nick Zitelli. 
Zitelli, once a scholarship player at 
Purdue University, led the team in tackles 
(79) and was tied for the lead in sacks 
(five), despite missing two and a half 
games due to an ankle injury.
“I think I came back close to 100. At 
times I may have been favoring it, but it 
didn’t seriously set me back,” said Zitelli.
The departing inside linebacker will 
play one final game in 2000 in the 
Division III all-star game against the 
Mexico Collegiate all-stars on December
16. The D-III men are selected by the 
members of the American Football 
Coaches Association. Current NFL star 
London Fletcher of the St. Louis Rams 
played in the classic.
“You lose his athletic ability and leader- Bodnar was conservative in his praise, 
ship [with Zitelli’s departure],” said of the smothering defense, instead point- 
senior lineman Brian Lenhart. ing toward the mistakes that seem to nag
The rough stretch of three losses within him like a bad cold. However, Bodnar was 
four games called for a reemergence of well aware of the progress his young ath-
The CMU defensive line faces up with Frankl 
the determined attitude which had made 
the Tartans so successful in the past.
Lenhart continued, “Obviously some­
one needed to step up and once he got 
back, we played much better.”
Always important to the continued suc­
cess of the Tartan dominance on defense 
was Terry Bodnar, defensive coordinator.
“Coach B is a great coach. He realized 
he was dealing with a young team,” said 
Lenhart.
Lenhart explained that Bodnar knew 
the youth of his gridiron warriors and 
kept their performance in perspective. 
Against U-Chicago, the Tartans had 
allowed 17 first half points, but allowed a 
meager field goal for the Maroons for the 
remainder of the afternoon.
“In the course of the game, we kind of 
did a 180.”
Lenhart continued, “There were a lot of 
times we did little mistakes that turned 
into big plays that made it look worse 
than it was.”
Peter Wang/Assistant Darkroom Managér-
in and Marshall on September 30. 
letes made over the course of the season, 
including linebackers Mike Danielson 
and Mike Hubbert.
“I was very pleased with his- 
[Danielson] progress this year. He obuSS 
ously put a lot of time into studying the 
playbook,” said Bodnar.
The defense did experience one shakes» 
up. Midway through the season, the sec ­
ondary personnel were shuffled, as Joe 
Manger and Jacob Nichols replaced the 
elder safeties Jared Winchester and Matt, 
Noretto. Bodnar said he felt the younger ; 
players were making fewer mistakes and 
should enjoy a chance at stabilizing the; 
positions.
Despite the mental errors incurred on; 
both sides of the football, the youthful 
squad has a promising season ahead of] 
itself in 2001. Losing only two starters on 
defense and four on offense, the Tartans 
stand poised to return the UÁA 
Championship to the home of one of 
Division Ill’s most successful programs.
Tartans’ Zitelli chosen for Division III All-Star game
courtesy Tartan Football Guide
Senior standout inside linebacker Nick 
Zitelli was selected by the American 
Football Coaches Association to play for 
the Division Three all-star team. The 
squad will once again do battie with the 
Mexican collegiate all-star team.
Zitelli recorded 79 tackles and five 
sacks during a season in which an ankle 
injury hobbled him at times and prevent­
ed him from seeing action in two and a 
half games.
Zitelli’s leadership and experience were 
instrumental in a Tartan defense that lim­
ited opponents to less than 13 points a 
game and only 100 yards rushing on aver­
age.
Zitelli was non-committal about his 
future plans in football. Scouts will be on 
hand at the December 16 game played in 
Mexico. Current NFL and St. Louis Rams 
star linebacker London Fletcher played in 
the contest as a representative of John 
Carroll University in Cleveland.
“Hey, you never know,” said the coy 
Zitelli.
Defensive coordinator Terry Bodnar 
said the Tartans have become accustomed 
to post-season honors, including all-con­
ference player honors.
“Nick has done a tremendous job the,1 
past two years. He’s a tremendous athlete“1 
a great team player, and a great leader,’* 
said Bodnar.
Zitelli was initially a scholarship player ' 
and letter-winner at Big Ten conference 
winner Purdue University. Recruited by 
numerous institutions coming out of 
Montour High School in the west suburbs 
of the city, Zitelli became disenfranchised 
with football at Purdue.
“It became a job,” Zitelli said.
Looking for a great education and a 
place to play competitive football closer to 
home, Zitelli enrolled at Carnegie Mellon* 
where head coach Rich Lackner had ini­
tially recruited him.
SwTm tesms oefest Csse Westedn Resedee
SWIMMING, from page A10 
snatched a NCAA “A” qualifying 
time with a time of 17:29.58 in 
the 1650-yard freestyle. Munz 
also proved victorious in the 400- 
yard individual medley.
Reaching the “A” qualifying 
time in the 1650-yard freestyle 
gained her automatic admittance 
In the NCAA championships this
spring.
Tartan .first-year Brian 
McCarthy once again showed his 
backstroke prowess, breaking 
both the pool record and his own 
school record in- the 200-yard 
backstroke with a winning time 
of 1:53.59, almost four seconds 
off the nearest competitor. 
McCarthy broke the school
record which he had held for 
three weeks.
“Even though I am an archi­
tecture major, I still have a pen­
chant for the dramatic, every 
once in a while I like to get peo­
ple excited,” he said.
On the board, Lindsay Collins 
had the bounces go her way. 
Collins, a senior from Johns 
Hopkins, placed first in the 
meet’s one and three-meter 
springboard events. She broke 
her own pool record on the one 
meter putting up 239.75 points 
in a six dive competition.
Hopkins sophomore Stephanie 
Harbeson was a double record- 
breaker. She owned the middle 
distance events, tearing down 
records in the 200 and 500-yard 
freestyles with times of 1:56.24 
and 5:05.90 in the events, 
respectively.
During the meet Saturday 
against CWRU, the Tartan men 
pulled ahead easily from Case, 
taking first, second, and third in 
eight of the thirteen events, and 
winning 130-76. The women, 
however, battled until the last 
event of the meet before their 
victory was decided.
Junior Erin Andrew scored a 
victory in the 50-yard freestyle 
in exciting fashion, touching out 
her Case Western opponent in 
the 50 by just .02 seconds. 
Andrew was also part of the win­
ning 200-yard freestyle relay, 
which secured victory for the 
women.
“We really focused on the 
breaststroke, seeing that the 
meet could hinge on the event,” 
said Andrew. “We represented 
there and I think that was what 
won the meet for us.”
The ladies placed first and 
third in the event both of the 
spots captured by first-years. 
Corey Ginsberg posted a win­
ning time of 1:12.55, and 
Heather Whitman came in third 
less than a second behind.
Men’s senior co-captain Jason 
Striner, winner of the 100-yard 
breaststroke, felt satisfied with 
the way the team swam.
“We entered the meet with the 
hope that we could continue the 
success that our team has dis­
played this season. We certainly 
met the aforementioned expec­
tations during the proceeding 
fortnight and then exceeded 
them,” said Striner.
The other co-captain, senior 
George Heidinger, was no less 
impressive; he was victorious in 
his personal specialty, the 100- 
yard butterfly, an event where 
the Tartan men had the first four 
finishers.
Heidinger was also member of 
the men’s 200-yard medley relay 
along with Striner, Sean 
Belowich, and Matthew 
Shewchuk.
Adam Rousseau, winner of his 
new found specialty the 200- 
yard individual medley, echoed 
Striner’s sentiments.
“I’ve espoused hard work and 
diligence throughout my swim­
ming career,” said Rousseau. 
“Our swim team this year has 
followed just that track. They 
work hard during the week and 
the fruits of that labor are seen 
on the weekends, where we have 
been rather successful.”
The swim teams don’t have 
another dual meet until January 
13, when they face Westminster 
College at home.

---------------------------------------------------

IMNEWS
Administration
Intramural Director: Mike
Mastroianni, x8-2214 or mma8+ 
Assistant Director: Mike
Grzywinski, x8-2214 or immike+ 
Secretary: Amy Kiryk, x8-2053 or 
kiryk+
Intramural Board President: Mike 
Edwards, x2-2993 
Intramural Vice President: Ryan 
•Jackson
Women’s President: Amy Tsao
Important Dates
Monday, November 20 — Water 
Polo playoffs begin 
Wednesday, December 6 — IM 
Board Meeting at 12:30 pm in the 
Gym Conference Room 
Thursday, January 25, 2001 — 
Basketball, Floor Hockey, and 
Faculty Grad Volleyball rosters 
due in the IM Office by 4:30 pm.
Sports in Season
Bowling — The IM Bowling sea­
son finished yesterday afternoon. 
Watch future issues of the Tartan 
for champions.
Water Polo — Playoffs start 
tonight at the UC Pool. The finals 
will be Monday, November 27.
Racquetball — Playoff matches 
are underway now at the UC 
Courts. The playoffs will continue
after Thanksgiving.
Foosball — The playoffs sched­
ules are out. Please play games as 
scheduled and report scores to the 
IM Office.
Chess ¦— Playoff schedules are 
out. Please play matches and 
report scores to the IM Office.
Table Tennis, Call Pool, Spades, 
and Darts — Schedules are out. 
Please play all games as scheduled 
and report scores to the IM Office.
Three-person volleyball — The 
schedules are out. This year the 
format has changed to a double 
elimination tournament. Brackets 
are available at the IM Office. 
Games begin tonight.
Sports Completed
Soccer — The finals were held 
Thursday night. The champions 
were as follows: Kappa Sigma 
(Intermediate), Hana (Minors), 
and Delta Delta Delta (Womens).
All Sports Total through Tennis
Kappa Sigma -1150 
PiKA-1025 
Omega -858 
Beta-800 
Theta Xi - 750
Womens
Tartan Hoopers -1366 
F.T.H. -1117 
Pioneers - 617
All email rosters must be submitted
24 hours prior to the deadline.
Sports
20 November 2000 THE TARTAN Page Alo
Hnme tesm wTns CMU TTp-nff Tnudnsment CasssTc
Sophomore forward Erin Brady (left) in action against Penn State-Altoona on Saturday. Guards Sandy Rectenwaid, Danielle Bennett, and 
Michelle Sodini (right) are congratulated after defeating Penn State to win the weekend tournament.
HandTos es. 
HandTos Ts 
msTn eeent
Full Court Press
by Pete Patterson
The best rivalry in recent college foot­
ball history was on display this weekend. 
Of course, during the week nicknamed 
Rivalry Week there are many contenders 
for this title. My apologies go to the fans of 
the Wolverines and Buckeyes (I feel espe­
cially sorry for OSU fans), one of the few 
games where it is true that the records ^ 
don't matter. Ever since John Cooper took j 
over at Ohio State, Michigan is nearly 
guaranteed a victory, and the outcome 
was no different this year.
Honorable mention must go to the 
Ducks and Beavers, not only for having the : 
best contending team names but also for j 
both ranking in the top 10 for the first time 
during their 104th annual Oregon civil 
war. Oregon State earned the school's first 
ten-win season with a victory, stole a Rose 
Bowl bid from Oregon and sent it over the
Bowden and Spurrier don’t hesitate to show their competitiveness by continually taking small shots at the other program... they are rivals in the true sense of the word... .
border to the Washington Huskies.
There is no question that these games 
were great, but consistent with the recent 
trend of the Sunshine State being the cen­
ter of the country's attention, the batde in 
Tallahassee showcased the country's best 
rivalry. It was only the 45th time that 
Florida and Florida State have met, but 
the quality of these match-ups more than 
outweighs what they lack in quantity. The 
greatness of this rivalry is demonstrated in 
many areas.
For one, just look at the opposing coach­
es. Bowden and Spurrier — as much as | 
one may personally dislike the former for | 
his down-home folksiness, or the latter for j 
his seeming arrogance — must be consid­
ered when discussing the best coaches in 
the game. The two don't hesitate to show ! 
their competitiveness by continually tak­
ing small shots at the other program. : 
These two are rivals in the true sense of 1 
the word, as they meet not only on the 
field but also on the road vying for the j 
same recruits every year. The dynamic ere- j 
ated by the two brings to mind some of the j 
great coaching battles of the past, such as j 
Nebraska's Tom Osborne and Oklahoma's | 
Barry Switzer and the greatest of them all, 
Woody Hayes and Bo Schembechler clash- 
See FOOTBALL, page A9 I
by Christopher ChungSports Editor
Continuing its show of dominance over 
local schools, the women’s basketball 
team made a steady comeback in the clos­
ing minutes of the CMU Tip-off 
Tournament final, and after two tense 
overtime periods, whisked the tourna­
ment trophy out from under Penn State- 
Altoona’s nose. The Tartans got their sea­
son off to a quick start in the first game of 
the tournament on Friday, by crushing 
Chatham College, 86-34.
According to sophomore guard Sandy 
Rectenwaid, who was named All- 
Tournament, the Penn State squad was 
comparable to the Tartans, featuring a 
strong inside game. The teams were well 
matched; Penn State shot 10-26 from the 
field in the first half for a 38.5 shooting 
percentage, whereas the Tartans shot 
9-26 from the field for a 34.6 shooting 
percentage.
With about eight minutes left in the 
game and trailing by eight, the Tartans 
got a pep talk from head coach Gerri 
Seidl, who insisted that the players “give 
it everything you have.”
After that, they slowly chipped away at 
the Penn State lead, until first-year 
guard/forward Carissa Sain was fouled, 
and hit two free throws to cut the lead to 
a slim 61-60. Moments later, with four 
seconds left, Rectenwaid was fouled,, 
made her first free throw, and had her sec­
ond bounce in and out, thus leaving the 
game tied at 61-61 at the end of regula­
tion.
In the first overtime, the teams stayed 
right on top of each other, both scoring 
five points. In the second overtime peri­
od, the Tartans capitalized and outscored
by Christopher ChungSports Editor
The Carnegie Mellon men’s basketball 
team was unable to shake its woes, open­
ing its 2000-2001 season, at the West Penn 
Classic, with a 75-56 loss to Grove City. 
The game took place at Washington and 
Jefferson.
Guard Dom Ionadi led Carnegie Mellon 
scorers with 12 points on 4-10 shooting. 
He also collected five assists and four 
rebounds, in 26 minutes of play.
Sophomore forward Ross Freeman 
pulled down nine of the team’s 31 
rebounds, and recorded two blocked shots 
in 29 minutes of play.
First-year guard Brian McKinney, who in 
eight minutes of playing time took ten 
shots, making four, and tallying eight 
points total.
The only other Tartan to score in double 
digits was first-year guard Vince Bartozzi, 
who was 4-14, with 11 points.
The Tartans suffered through poor 
shooting, at only 34.5 percent for the 
game, hitting eight out of 25 three-point 
shots taken.
Penn State, 8-3. Through the two peri­
ods, Penn State had numerous opportuni­
ties: its players were 1-10 (10 percent) 
from the field and 6-16 (37.5 percent) 
from the charity stripe. The Tartans were 
steadier throughout overtime, shooting
2-7 (28.6 percent) from the field and 
'9-13 (69.2 percent) from the line.
Sophomore forward Erin Brady, who 
was named tournament MVP, played 45 
minutes, chalking up 13 points, 11 
rebounds, four steals, and three blocked 
shots. Sain led all scorers with 17 points, 
while also collected nine rebounds.
By contrast, Grove City players shot 54.7 
percent for the game, and hit half of the 
twenty three-pointers they took.
The next day, the Tartans played 
Washington and Jefferson at Allegheny. 
They lost a close game by a few points.
Junior forward Matt Beaujon said that 
the game could have easily gone the 
Tartans’ way.
“We missed a lot of foul shots, and we 
missed some layups,” said Beaujon, “that 
pretty much cost us the game.”
But the team seems to be working 
together decendy.
“We’re coming together, we played 
much better than against Grove City,” said 
Beaujon. “We’re very young, and inexpe­
rienced. That hurt us against Washington 
and Jefferson.”
The Tartans will host the Carnegie 
Mellon Tournament this weekend, which 
will include Thiel, Washington and Lee, 
and Wooster.
Beaujon believes the Tartans will be 
able to defeat Washington and Lee, who 
they will face first.
Wooster is a highly-ranked Division III 
school, and will provide quite a challenge 
for the Tartans.
The tournament, played in Skibo 
Gymnasium, was a good warm-up for the 
women’s team, which will undoubtedly be 
facing stiff competition in the University 
Athletic Association this coming winter.
Helping to combat those UAA teams, 
including perennial champ Washington 
University, the core of last year’s ECAC 
South Region championship team has 
remained intact, featuring Brady, sopho­
more guard Michelle Sodini, and sopho­
more guard Danielle Bennett.
Notably missing from the lineup this 
weekend was senior guard and team
by Mike CookStaff writer
Carnegie Mellon swimming has faced 
a series of challenges over the past two 
competitive weekends.
Last weekend, they faced three of the 
competitors they will face in January at 
UAAs. This past weekend, they compet­
ed in dual meet fashion with their rivals 
from Cleveland.
The Tartan women were feeling some 
trepidation Saturday, as the Case 
Western Reserve University women’s 
team had placed ahead of them in last 
year’s conference championships. 
However, -the women’s swim team dug 
down deep and came up with a perfor­
mance that sent the CWRU women back 
home with their tails between their legs 
and a 131-106 loss.
The Tartan men came into the meet 
last weekend with Johns Hopkins, 
Emory, and New York with confidence 
born from victories in their last three 
meets.
“This is our biggest meet in the fall, 
and it’s a good chance to see how the
leader Lauren Petruzzi. Petruzzi, who 
has appeared in every game for the 
Tartans for the past three years since her 
first year, twisted her right knee and tore: 
the anterior cruciate ligament two weeks 
ago on Sunday, November 5, in a scrim­
mage against Allegheny. She is expected 
to be back on the floor sometime in 
January.
Until then, the women will have their 
hands full, facing Juniata, Waynesburg, 
Grove City, and Thiel over the next weeks, 
and then UAA competitor Johns Hopkins 
on December 3.
competition will'stack up in the spring 
for UAA championships,” said junior 
Sean Belowich. “If this meet is any indi­
cation, then the spring post-season will 
be interesting to watch, because we have 
a chance to surprise some people.”
The Tartan women were also keeping 
an eye on their competition during the' 
quadmeet. Although they were unable 
to match their male counterpart’s suc­
cesses, many members were able to 
mark new personal best times for them­
selves.
“I’m making progress,” said first-year 
engineering and public policy major 
Julie Tibor, “just like the rest of the 
women’s team. We will be ready for 
UAAs.”
The Tartan women finished a disap­
pointing third place out of the four 
teams. It was evident that other swim­
mers were making progress, with two 
“A” level and a staggering 25 “B” level 
qualifying times were registered this 
weekend by female swimmers.
The meet set off with a harbinger of 
fast swimming to come. In the first 
event, Emory junior Becky Munz 
See SWIMMING, page A9
Men lose in season openerCMU swimmers beat Case
Men’s sncced tesm’s sessnn enos st NCAAs
by Preston Treiche!Assistant Sports Editor
To say that the CMU soccer team 
had a successful season would be 
an understatement.
After finishing with a 14-2 over­
all record (6-1 in the UAA, includ­
ing wins over Washington 
University, Emory University, and 
highly-ranked University of 
Rochester), the Tartans earned a 
bid to the NCAA tournament. They 
lost to Messiah in the first round of 
the tournament, 4-0, but that did­
n’t take away from their otherwise 
stellar season.
The Tartan defense allowed 
eleven goals during the regular 
season, four of which they gave up 
in an early season matchup against 
Mt. Union. Ten of the Tartans’wins 
were shutouts, and the offense 
outscored their opponents by a 
total of 32-11.
The triumphant Tartan season 
can be attributed to many factors. 
After losing six seniors to gradua­
tion, the Tartans were depending 
on their new first-year players for 
major team contributions.
Head coach Nick Gaudioso made 
the first step by doing some quality 
recruiting and the new players 
proved their true potential once the 
games began. The team seemed to 
gel from day one.
“The freshmen were put in a 
rough situation and stepped up to 
the task,” said junior goalkeeper 
Tom Dougherty.
file photo by Bryan Kaplan/Photo Editor
Junior midfielder Steve Tepper advances the ball during the Tartans’ 4-2 win over Case Western Reserve on October 28.
The new faces helped turn the 
disadvantage of losing valuable 
players into an advantage.
This year was the first time a 
Carnegie Mellon team ever won 
the UAA title in soccer. Even more 
notable is the fact that it was 
accomplished with such a young 
team. The youth was only part of 
the formula, though. Senior cap­
tain David Zupon also helped drive 
the new players in the right direc­
tion.
“David’s inspirational pre-game
speeches were just what our team 
needed to get fired up before the 
game,” said Dougherty. “It will be 
hard to replace a player like him, 
though.”
Even though the season just 
recently ended, thoughts of next 
season are in the air. The Tartans 
are happy with how. the season 
went, but they already have their 
sights set on something bigger for 
next year.
“It was great making it to the 
tournament, but I wish we would
have gotten more,” said Dougherty. 
“Our goal is to make it back to the 
tournament next year, except with 
much better results.”
Now that the standard has been 
set, look for the Tartans to be big 
contenders next year.
Zupon is the only player the 
team is losing, and the team will be 
back to compete next season. Next 
year, the Tartans look to have the 
talent, desire, and experience to go 
to the first round of the NCAA tour­
nament and beyond.

---------------------------------------------------

Arts Ar Living
20 November 2000 THE TARTAN Section B
All photos by Peter Wang/Assistant Darkroom Manager 
Collage by Justin Suissa/Art Editor
Performers at the Kappa Gong Show included (clockwise from top left) Dirty 
Sanchez, Drunk Gary and the Natural Lights, first place winners PiKA 
Deathsquad, and emcees Katie Kowall and Tara Gilbreath.
Kappa Kappa Gamma philanthropy show features music, comedy, performers in boxer shorts
by Andy FrancisCo-Arts and Living Editor
Based loosely on the classic television pro­
gram The Gong Show, Kappa Kappa Gamma’s 
annual “Kappa Gong Show” this year dis­
played some of Carnegie Mellon’s most talent­
ed individuals, as well of some of its least 
skilled. While some of the fifteen acts were 
clearly more well-designed than some others, 
nearly all of them were able to amuse or 
entertain the crowd in one way or another. All 
proceeds from the ticket sales for this year’s 
Gong Show benefited local charity Debra 
House.
In charge of the gong were five judges: 
English professor Paul Hopper, Michelle Grab 
from Student Life, and students Peter Yeung, 
Shevey Westbrook, and Kevin Kerry. Although 
the student volunteers were supposed .to be 
chosen randomly, it was clear that the three 
had managed to rig the selection process. Like 
in the television program, a Kappa sister was 
ready to strike a big gong near the stage at a 
judge’s request; striking the gong meant the 
performer was done and not supposed to con­
tinue. Each judge was permitted to gong one 
of the fifteen acts, though a disillusioned 
Kerry lobbied for a second during an especial­
ly long performance.
Many of the finest performances during the 
show came from musical acts. Ashok 
Kanagasundram and Mike Jehn led the show 
off with an earnest, sincere version of Bob 
Dylan’s “Blowin’ in the Wind.” Tim Brochu
also went the acoustic route, strumming most 
of the way through an original song before 
getting gonged. Guitars also defined the 
sound of Mysteria, as well as two-man group 
Drunk Gary and the Natural Lights. Mysteria 
earned honorable mention for two acoustic, 
bluesy tunes, while Drunk Gary ripped 
through an abbreviated rendition of Lynyrd 
Skynyrd’s “Freebird.” The lead guitarist’s play­
ing on “Freebird” was the most impressive dis­
play of talent 1 saw during the show, particu­
larly his unbelievable solo to close the tune 
out. Rounding out the musicians were Dirty 
Sanchez, a ska-punk band who got the gong 
from Hopper midway through their second 
song.
Several a cappella groups took the stage as 
well, scoring quite well with the judges. The 
PiKA Deathsquad’s pantless performance of 
Pachabel’s “Canon in D” and Green Day’s 
“Basket Case” was a huge hit with the crowd, 
and earned them “Best Greek Act” and first 
place overall. CMU’s well-known SoundBytes 
followed suit with a stripped-down singing of 
“Come on Eileen,” a performance that got 
them an honorable mention but found me 
looking for a gong of my own.
Of course, the Gong Show wouldn’t be com­
plete without colorful, scantily clad sorority 
dancers, and the sisters of Zeta Psi Sigma and 
later Kappa Kappa Gamma handled that 
department. An obvious crowd favorite was 
the group Pantyhose, comprised of five Kappa 
sisters, who took home third place for their 
bouncy dance through Britney Spears’ “Oops 
... I Did It Again.” Four men from Delta Tau
Delta tried their hand at the girls’ game, but 
their hilarious interpretation of Janet 
Jackson’s “If’ was cut very short by the ever­
present gong.
Stand-up comedy was represented by past 
Gong Show winner Jessica Glassberg and 
Jason Planitzer. Glassberg’s riffs on breasts 
and phone sex induced a lot of squirming 
among the audience members but nonethe­
less took home second place. Planitzer suf­
fered a much worse fate, as his uneven rou­
tine was cut short pretty early by the panel of 
judges.
The funniest moments of the show came 
primarily from the least talented acts. That, 
and audience members yelling “gong!” at 
inappropriate times, like when the Kappa 
emcees took the stage or when a band was 
slow to set up. Early in the show, Colin Hinde 
came out with a bizarre act that first involved 
him swinging nunchucks to a Prodigy song, 
then juggling. When he dropped a sword he 
was juggling, (along with a cantaloupe and a 
small yellow ball) a visibly annoyed Kerry 
leapt out of his seat and gave the gong the 
smack of its life. As the show wound down, 
only Yeung still had his gong left and only one 
act remained. Fortunately, the act, titled 
“Rick and Tim’s Excellent Adventure,” was 
two comically dressed students who drank 
Coca-Cola and then used their subsequent 
burping as the sound effect for a fake newspa­
per swordfight they engaged in. Needless to 
say, the judges couldn’t hit the gong quick 
enough, and with that the Gong Show called 
it a day.
Speakers enliven Town Meeting about 
conflict between Israelis, Palestinians
by Asha PathakBusiness Manager
On Tuesday the Student Activities 
Office, the Graduate Student Assembly, 
and the Jewish University Center spon­
sored a discussion of the Israeli- 
Palestinian conflict in Israel. The dis­
cussion was led by a panel of three infor­
mants on the issue, including Giora 
Becher, Isreali Consul to Philadelphia, 
Dr. Laurie Eisenberg of the history 
department at CMU, and Lou Weiss of 
Weisshouse and Wishbox.com, who has 
frequented Israel as a visitor and a mis­
sionary. The discussion was hosted and 
mediated by a member of the Jewish 
University Center.
Becher was the first panelist to speak 
and gave a brief historical timeline of 
key events, issues, and negotiations sur­
rounding the Israeli-Palestinian con­
flict. “We need a foundation of the past 
100 years of conflict between Arabs and 
Jews over this small territory,” he 
began. Becher mentioned major devel­
opments and setbacks in the relation­
ship between the Palestinians and Jews 
in Israel as well as other contributing 
factors, such as successful and failed 
treaties, the Oslo Accord, and the 1967 
crisis in the Sinai peninsula. Becher 
also commented on the current condi­
tion of Jerusalem, expressing disap­
pointment with guerilla warfare in the 
streets and the killing of civilians.
Eisenberg then spoke about the con­
flict from a theoretical standpoint,
describing it as “many conflicts rolled 
into one.” She began by relating the 
conflict between the Arabs and the 
Jews to one of existentialism, despite 
the progress made by the Oslo Accord. 
“It’s more than where you and I sit,” 
she said, referring to the relationship 
between the Arabs and the Jews, “it’s 
whether or not you and I exist.” 
Eisenberg then discussed the peace 
process and its function and defini­
tion, mentioning further that despite 
there being a peace process underway, 
changes within an elite group of politi­
cians, diplomats, and negotiators must 
be conveyed to the entire population in 
order for there to be progress. 
Eisenberg indicated that two impor­
tant elements needing further devel­
opment were those of psychology and 
leadership.
According to Eisenberg, both Israeli 
and Palestinian leaders must prepare 
their people for change and for the 
results of negotiation, provided that 
both sides understand that they must 
concede something and that neither 
side can achieve total and complete vic­
tory. “Barak is trying to prepare the 
Israelis,” said Eisenberg. “He’s already 
steps ahead of Arafat, who has pre­
pared his people for nothing but com­
plete victory. Arafat has done his peo­
ple a disservice by not preparing them 
for resolution and compromise.” 
Eisenberg reflected the extent of her 
optimism with, “The history has been 
an interspersal of negotiation attempts 
and wars. Perhaps what we are seeing
now are the ‘birth pains’ of a 
Palestinian state. We should keep our 
expectations low but continue to 
work.”
Weiss was the last of the panel to 
speak. He recounted the relevant 
Israeli social and cultural environment 
and spoke of the conditions of the daily 
coexistence of Palestinians and Jews in 
the same territories.
After the panelists spoke, the moder­
ator opened the floor to questions. 
These included questions concerning 
the terms and caveats of negotiations 
and peace processes as well as ques­
tions from Palestinians in attendance 
who had questions regarding Israeli 
policy or who held discrepancies with 
some of the comments and statements 
made during the panelists’ talks. Some 
of these questions were answered nei­
ther thoroughly nor exhaustively, com­
pared to the more objective and 
process-oriented questions, most likely 
because there were no Palestinians on 
the panel.
The discussion was quite informative 
in addressing the state of affairs con­
cerning the conflict between Arabs and 
Jews in Israel, a situation which has 
recently gained attention as a result of 
the latest outbreaks of fighting. The 
panelists were quite knowledgable in 
their respective areas, including a 
Jewish-Israeli represenative (Becher) 
and a neutral expert on history and 
negotiation (Eisenberg), but unfortu­
nately the proceedings lacked a 
Palestinian representative.
Drama production puts new slant on classic fairy tales
Miss Julie uses intimate studio setting to explore issues of gender, society, interclass relationships
by Ish HarshawatEditor-in-Chief
Last week, Stuart Carden, a second year 
drama graduate student, directed a studio pro­
duction of Miss Julie, probably one of the best 
known plays to come out of Sweden. August 
Strindberg’s classic revolves around the tension 
between classes, and the tension between 
males and females.
Miss Julie (played by sophomore drama 
major Jaime St. Peter), is a privileged count’s 
daughter with a complicated past. The other 
main character is Jean (played by junior drama 
major Chris Cardenas), the count’s footman 
and a member of the lower class. These two 
characters represent opposing ends because of 
their status in society as expressed by their 
class as well as their gender.
The entire story revolves around one ill-fated 
midsummer night and the morning that fol­
lows it. The play opens with Jean and his 
fiancée, another servant in the count’s mansion 
named Christine (played by junior drama 
major Mary Kate Schellhardt). Julie enters and 
for the rest of the night orders Jean to dance 
with her.Miss Julie was one of the two productions taking place in the Purnell Center this past week. This What follows is an intense and sometimes 
key scene involved Jean (Chris Cardenas) trying to hypnotize Miss Julie (Jaime St. Peter). gee jjjije page 53
Taste of India: Vijay Palaparty performed the classical Indian dance Bharatanatyam on 
Saturday as part of Ajooba: The wonders of South Asia. See page B2 for a story on the event.
where else entirely.
Of course, that very uncertainty is 
to be expected in stories populated by 
carnivorous witches in disguise, don­
keys that emit gold “from both ends” 
and grandma-eating wolves. In fact, 
those only familiar with the Disney- 
fied version of these classic tales 
might find themselves surprised to 
see just how gruesome the Grimms’ 
tales really are. For those people, it is 
certain to be startling that Cinderella 
did not get her man with the help of 
cute little talking mice, but with vin­
dictive eyeball-pecking doves.
Yet there are surprises in store even 
for those familiar with the original 
versions of these stories. Although 
the language stays true to its early 
19th century origins, the characters 
have been updated in a variety of 
interesting ways.
The use of sound effects for much 
of the humor in the play certainly 
never could have been imagined by 
the Brothers Grimm. When a magical 
donkey opens her legs and produces 
gold from at least one end, we are 
told as much not only from the happy 
See GRIMM, page B3
KappaKappaGamma
CHARITY 
GONG SHOW
by Emily LandesSenior Staffwriter
As the lights lowered at the start of 
Grimm Tales, the cast surprised the 
audience by suddenly appearing 
among them, calling, laughing, and 
running up onto the stage. Dressed in 
contemporary children’s clothing, 
they swung around on the set, which 
was comprised of darkly painted 
metal ladders, bridges, fences and 
garbage cans, all covered with unin­
telligible graffiti. The actors ran 
cheerfully through this hellish jungle 
gym, waving and yelling out to the 
audience. The thwack of an ax into 
the stage smacked a hard silence into 
the center of their child-like glee, fol­
lowed by the inevitable line “It was 
only once upon a time ...”
Actors in the audience, happy chil­
dren in the center of a nightmare, the 
unexpected presence of an ax. This 
startling opening is indicative of the 
main quality of the Gregory Lehane- 
directed Grimm Tales — just when 
you think you are being led one way, 
you suddenly find that you are some-

---------------------------------------------------

THE TARTAN • NOVEMBER 20, 2000
Put those sandals, shorts, and suntan lotion away; winter weather is upon us
Fashion 101By: Tifanie Tiberio
For my final column of the semester, I 
had originally thought that I should do a 
gift-giving guide for the holidays. For 
example, ladies, your boyfriend does not 
want a sweater. He may need a sweater, 
you may think he looks adorable in a 
sweater, but he does not want a sweater. 
Then, I also considered forecasting fashion 
trends for this spring — I think pink will 
continue to be a popular color and capris 
are kaputt. However, when 1 realized that 
lives were in danger, I decided that 1 had to 
speak. I must educate you all about dress­
ing for the weather.
Attention: it is cold outside. It is averag­
ing 40 degrees in the afternoon. It is even 
colder in the evenings. Why are people 
wearing shorts? There is no legitimate rea­
son for anyone to be wearing shorts. I have 
heard that shorts are more comfortable. 
Personally, I cannot think of anything more 
uncomfortable than losing a leg to frost­
bite. Along the same lines, why do I still see 
people wearing sandals to class? My per­
sonal rule of thumb is to put all strappy 
summer type sandals away after Labor Day, 
but if the weather allows, a more substan­
tial sandal is acceptable. But there were 
snow flurries a few days ago and I saw 
some girl wearing Adidas sandals in the 
middle of campus. I brought this topic up to 
some friends of mine and they decided to
play devil’s advocate. What if the person is 
on her way to the gym? Or someone is leav­
ing swim practice? Again, when the tem­
perature is below 60 degrees and' it is dark 
before 6 pm, there is; absolutely no reason 
to see someone in Hunt wearing short 
spandex shorts and a baby tee, even if they 
do consider themselves a supermodel. I 
don’t care where you are coming from, or 
where you are going, if you can freeze ice 
cubes between your thighs when you come 
in from outside, you need to put on some 
clothes.
But you all get the point, right? Expose 
minimal skin in freezing temperatures. No 
exceptions, not even evening wear. 
Weekends at the quad do not make you 
immune to disease. I know that you plan
on drinking lots of cheap beer and 
writhing your sweaty body through the sti­
fling heat of the fraternity basements, but 
there is no reason for you to cross 
Morewood Avenue with nothing more 
than tight black pants and a backless shirt. 
And a black cardigan is not a coat. I am all 
for being scantily clad when I know that I 
will be in a small area filled with dancing 
bodies, but again, I am not willing to catch 
pneumonia in transit from my apartment 
to the party. You shouldn’t be either. There 
is no shame in sporting your skimpiest 
party clothes, unless you are wearing 
something that you know you shouldn’t be 
wearing, but whenever you leave the safe­
ty of your dorm, please use protection, in 
every sense of the word.
This is my holiday gift to you. I am giv^ 
ing you advice to save your life. Please 
cover up in the cold. I will not even hold it 
against you if the coat that you choose is 
an ugly color, or if your gloves do not 
match your scarf. But please cover your­
selves when you leave the house. 
Hypothermia does not discriminate — 
anyone can contract it. Bundle up and 
use your brain when getting dressed 
each morning. Write this phone number 
down and call it each day to hear the cur­
rent temperature before you get ready 
for school: 936-1212. I know that com­
mon sense is a lot to ask from a Carnegie 
Mellon student. But here is a rule of 
thumb, if there is snow in the forecast, it 
will be very cold. Happy Holidays.
Typographer Weingart extolls 
virtues of designing by hand
Jazz piano legend Ellis 
Marsalis plays Kresge
by Joanna SmileyCo-Arts and Living Editor
This past Monday, the smooth- 
sounding notes of renowned 
modern jazz pianist Ellis Marsalis 
serenaded the Kresge Theater. A 
part of the Alcoa Lecture Series, 
Marsalis visited CMU all the way 
from Louisiana, where he is a pro­
fessor of jazz at New Orleans 
University. Students, faculty, 
musicians, and members of the 
Pittsburgh community quickly 
filled up the rather small audito­
rium, and an awe-inspired silence 
flowed through Kresge as 
Marsalis made his way across the 
stage.
As most jazz enthusiasts know, 
Ellis Marsalis is the father of six 
richly talented jazz musicians, 
including sons Wynton, Branford, 
Jason, and Defayeo. One of 
Marsalis’ other key contributions 
to jazz may also very well be as a 
jazz educator; his former stu­
dents include people like Terence 
Blanchard, Donald Harrison, 
Harry Connick Jr., Nicholas 
Payton, and Kent and Marlon 
Jordan. Marsalis’ own interest in 
jazz began in high school, where 
he was a tenor saxophonist for 
many years before eventually 
turning to piano. He soon 
became one of the few New 
Orleans musicians of the era who 
did not specialize in Dixieland or
rhythm and blues. Marsalis 
played with a variety of fellow 
modernists (including Ed 
Blackwell) in the late 50s, and 
recorded with Cannonball and 
Nat Adderley in the 60s and A1 
Hirt in the 70s.
Busy as a teacher throughout 
most of his career, Marsalis free­
lanced in New Orleans during the 
1970s and taught at the New 
Orleans Center for Creative Arts. 
In 1982 he recorded “Father and 
Sons,” with Wynton and 
Branford. Since then, he has 
recorded a duet session with 
Eddie Harris, and albums such as 
Rounder, Blue Note, Columbia, 
and Twelve’s It. The last record, 
credited to the Ellis Marsalis Trio, 
features Marsalis’ son Jason on 
drums. One of his latest albums, 
Duke in Blue, is a solo, outgoing 
tribute to Duke Ellington. The 
album is full of warm, laid-back, 
and elegant renditions of such 
classic Ellington pieces as 
“Melancholia” and “Reflections in 
D.”
Marsalis’ performance at CMU 
was reflective of all his work as an 
incredible innovator and teacher 
of jazz. He’s an excellent compos­
er, a wonderfully fluid and elo­
quently tasteful player—the kind 
of master you can relax into. 
From his opening piece to his out­
standing encore, Ellis Marsalis 
gave a phenomenal performance 
of truly exquisite jazz.
What a feeling!: Emily Gensheimer and Erin Vieth performed this chair routine as part of Dancers’ Symposium’s Sunday performance in Kresge.
by Chris MessinaOnline Design Editor
This past Wednesday, Carnegie Mellon 
hosted a lecture from an important and 
well-respected typographer known in 
design circles simply as Weingart. Traveling 
all the way from the Basel school in 
Germany, Weingart made his stop at CMU 
as part of a long tour of America promoting 
his book Weingart: Typography. Despite the 
fact that Weingart downplayed the promo­
tional aspect of his tour and insisted that he 
was visiting to speak to the students, his 
oversized, 480 page book factored heavily 
into his presentation.
CMU professor of Design Dan Boyarski 
introduced the speaker with a story relating 
to a personal experience he and his wife 
shared some 20 years ago when they attend­
ed a class taught by Weingart. Words of 
respect and reverence flowed from 
Boyarski, explaining to the audience that 
Weingart had always tried to teach people 
to know the rules before you attempt to 
break them. He introduced Weingart as a 
“great friend and a lifelong typographer, 
artist, composer, and lover.”
Weingart lumbered to the podium and 
assessed the size of the crowd commenting, 
“Perhaps people thought they were coming 
to see Carson.” This set the tone for the rest 
of his quirky and often meandering diatribe 
on typographic design, his influences and 
experiences, and finally where he saw the 
future of graphic design.
After a brief history of his background, 
the manifestation of the Swiss International 
Style and his fight against it, and the cre­
ation of the Basel school, he addressed the 
students more directly. “This is for the stu­
dents,” he asserted in touched English, “per­
haps they think us old farts don’t know any­
thing.”
Weingart posed a rhetorical question to 
the audience: “What is typography?” He 
showed examples ranging from magazine 
spreads to butter packaging to toilet paper 
wrappers asking, “Is this typography? This? 
This?” He explained his belief that the com­
puter has taken away our basic understand­
ing and appreciation of typography; he 
showed a woodcut letter and a metal rule 
and explained that he has always enjoyed 
working by hand—in fact, that he always 
has always worked by hand. He projected 
his book on to the screen behind him as he 
flipped through it — showcasing the work 
he has done by hand.
“You see this? Clear, clean, emotional; 
documentary and systematic. I wanted to 
do something different from my col­
leagues. You must do it by hand — not 
always conceptually.”
He again chided the use of computers 
in design and emphasized the importance 
of learning the fundamentals of typogra- : 
phy.
“No one knows what a point is any­
more. What is a point? Is it a banana or an 
apple? The computer does it for you now. 
Adobe tells you what a point is.”
He lambasted Carnegie Mellon’s design 
program and its emphasis on technique.
“Instead of studying visual problems, 
you study technique just so you can get a 
job. If Quark [Xpress] died tomorrow, all 
your training would be for nothing. At 
Carnegie Mellon you think you have thes' 
high intellectual standards — I don’t thin] 
so.”
He showed more of his book, citinj 
examples of how photographs he had takei 
while traveling had influenced his work. H< 
showed many references to the desert anc 
natural forms that he had attempted to rep 
resent through typography. He also pre­
sented a lengthy series of circular photos 
that reappeared in a number of black 
shapes of varying complexity, shape and 
size.
“This is play,” he remarked.
After he had finished giving a thorough 
tour of his book, Weingart fielded an audi­
ence question about his influences — 
specifically those that came from other 
designers. Seemingly perplexed by the pur­
pose of this query, he replied with a trick: 
“Sometimes to find ideas, I turn on the clas­
sical music with two bottles of wine and 
dancing and paper and I get these ideas I’d 
never have — sometimes you have these 
experiences with grass, no?”
The audience self-consciously chuckled. 
He waited for the laughter to die out and 
searched among his props, producing a 
rubber band and announcing, “I want to 
show you something.”
He projected his fingers playing and nimr 
bly stretching the elastic on to the large 
screen behind him. He suggested that this 
activity was like typography and that there 
was so much freedom of expression and 
movement. He dropped the singular elastic 
and picked up a group of tied bands and 
made, similar movements with his fingers. 
This time however, his fingers became tan­
gled up and unable to move. “This,” he stat­
ed defiantly, “is designing with a computer.”
Stand and deliver: The Carnegie Mellon Wind Ensemble's concert was broadcast on WQED FM on Saturday afternoon.
Mayur’s “Ajooba” features Indian dance, art
by Seth MandelManaging Editor
Last Saturday’s Mayur cultural show 
entitled “Ajooba” was a collection of 
dances, skits, and films representing var­
ious parts of South Asia, including all 
regions of India. The performances 
spanned from the two thousand year old 
classical style of Bharatanatyam to mod­
ern dances and skits. There were enough 
performances to fill two acts, with an 
intermission/samosa break between 
them. After the show, the crowd hustled 
out to a room where a buffet from Prince 
of India was waiting for them.
The show began with two emcees, who 
humorously introduced each perfor­
mance. The show included slower spiritu­
al and emotional dances and fast, bright, 
and energetic dances. There were also 
comic skits about CMU, Indian culture, 
and current events. The rotation of styles 
provoked continued interest in the per­
formances.
The talent of the participants and 
hours of practice that went into the show 
were evident in the professional quality 
of the performances. The show repre­
sented South Asian culture with bright 
colors, flashy costumes, special effects, 
and humorous interludes. It was an 
opportunity to see what pride these stu­
dents take in their culture and to be able 
to share in it with them.
Along with many CMU faces, many 
members of the greater Pittsburgh 
Indian community came out to see the 
show, including many from the 
University of Pittsburgh. Families and 
friends of the performers came to see 
the show as well.
The audience participated in the show 
by clapping beats and cheering for per­
formers. The audience provided energy 
to the performers while becoming ener­
gized themselves by the performances.
Emcee Aliya Omer, a junior biology 
major, said, “The performance went 
really well, partly on account of all of 
the audience participation.” She was 
excited to have been able to participate 
in the show and to take part in creating 
excitement throughout the audience.
The event’s dance chair, Monica 
Ullagaddi, a junior electrical and com­
puter engineering major said, “It was 
awesome that so many people were so 
excited about doing a show representing
their culture.”
One memorable part of the show was 
the first dance, which opened up the 
South Asian spiritual world. The female 
dancers, wearing white dresses and hair 
veils, came onstage through a haze, car­
rying white lights. The sole male dancer 
came onstage holding blue lights. The 
motion of the lights along with the fluid 
movements of the dancers made this an 
incredibly beautiful dance and a won­
derful beginning to an altogether fantas­
tic evening of performances. Another 
dancer awed the crowd with her rhyth­
mic abilities. The excitement of this 
dance peaked while she, dancing on 
what looked like a large plate, coquet- 
tishly echoed a male voice making 
rhythms in the music with energetic 
footwork and hip movements.
These classic style dances greatly con­
trasted the more modern acts, such as a 
skit about Daisyman, a film take off of 
the Matrix, the Jugba Springer Show, 
the Mafia Mix, and a visit from Dr. Evil. 
In addition, the group Awaaz gave fan­
tastic vocal and instrumental perfor­
mances.
Kristen Fraga contributed to this article

---------------------------------------------------

THE TARTAN • NOVEMBER 20, 2000
Julie, Jean light 
up Rauh Studio
JULIE, from page B1
disturbing dialogue between opposing forces. 
When Julie and Jean take their relationship one 
step too far, their lives change in an instant.
St. Peter and Cardenas did a good job of por­
traying their paranoid and frenetic characters. 
Their best moment came when they spoke about 
dreams. Jean says he has a dream where he is 
reaching up for the highest tree, whereas Julie 
says her dream is one where she sinks to the 
ground. More than in any other place in the play, 
these lines help to solidify the way in which 
Jean, a lowly but ambitious footman, feels about 
the limits that have been placed upon him by 
society’s unjust structure. Julie, on the other 
hand, must cope with the expectations people 
have of a gentleman’s daughter, and her inability 
to meet them.
Schellhardt, as Jean’s fiancee Christine, repre­
sented the status quo, the pious member of the 
lower class that sees God as the true salvation for 
their situation. “Last comes first” in heaven, and 
for that reason, while Julie and Jean are going 
against conventions, Christine is in a position to 
preach their virtues.
It would probably seem as though men and 
women were the same type of person, during 
Strindberg’s time. However, he portrays them as 
very different. One needs only think of the mul­
titude of jokes that comedians spout about how 
women can’t be understood, or how men are 
brutish thugs. All of these notions are deep-root­
ed in Miss Julie.
The set was simple — a table, a few chairs, a 
sink, and a stove. It did the job, however. The 
Rauh studio theater provided an intimate setting 
for the audience, who surrounded the set on 
three sides. Overall, this particular production 
did a fine job of driving home the inherent ten­
sions between classes and genders.
Grimm Tales adds edgier angle to children’s classics
have to create a character while still being easy to 
change out of, sometimes right on stage. Thus, 
shawls, cloaks and robes are used quite substan­
tially throughout, but again, in completely unex­
pected ways. Candy wrappers compose the witch’s 
elaborate robe in “Hansel and Gretel.” Two old 
hags covered in potato-sack cloaks are revealed to 
be Cinderella’s evil stepsisters, only one of whom 
is played by a woman.
Yet that makes no difference in the bizarre realm 
of Grimm Tales, where not only are men not always 
men, but in addition humans are not always 
humans. The versatile actors play everything from 
wily hedgehogs, helpful ducks and vengeful doves 
to burning ovens, restrictive cages and piles of 
shining gold.
While all of these innovations bring an exciting 
and innovative tapestry of color to the dark stage 
and familiar characters, they don’t help us get to 
know these characters any better. We never learn 
why the evil stepsisters are evil — they simply are. 
What does Rumplestiltskin want with someone 
else’s child? We never find out.
The one exception to this is the woodsman from 
“Hansel and Gretel,” who we see tormented at the 
thought that, even though his children have found 
their way home from the woods once already, he 
must lead them out again at his wife’s bequest. As 
the whole cast confronts him with the eerie chant, 
“You did it before so you’ll do it again,” we are 
offered a rare glimpse inside the mind of a for­
merly simple character we thought we knew 
before.
Unfortunately, this was the story that started off 
the show, shortly after that ax crashed into the 
floor, leading me to believe that more startling 
introspection was in store. Yet'the psychology of 
these characters never appeared again. As such, 
although the surprises in Grimm Tales are interest­
ing, humorous and satisfying in total, the fact that 
this one, deeper, surprise was not followed 
through to the end left me a bit disappointed.
GRIMM, from page B1
look on its owners face but also the loud “Ka-ching” 
noise that accompanies her actions. When the wolf eats 
Grandma and Little Red Riding Hood, we know what he 
has done based on exaggerated sounds of chomping, 
swallowing, a bit of indigestion and finally a flush.
Quite a bit is implied using various dialects as well. A 
sort of “Coffee Talk”-ish Brooklyn-ese is used for almost
every maternal character, Rumplestiltskin speaks with a 
lisp, and Red Riding Hood’s Wolf sounds like Squiggy 
from Laverne and Shirley, but dresses like a backwoods 
pimp.
The costumes, designed by Janice Zeller, were on the 
whole quite innovative and often, as in the case of the 
wolf, extremely humorous as well. With each actor play­
ing numerous parts throughout the play, the costumes
The cast of Grimm Tales (L. to R. Eduardo Rioseco, Katie Coffey, Holt Bailey, Ursula Freundlich, Maite Schwartz, Charlie 
Brady, Brian Hoffman, and Danny Rothman) takes part in some fairy tale fun and mayhem.
Carnegie Almanac
50 YEARS AGO, November 21, 1950 — By defeating the 
Westminster Titans, Carnegie Tech’s football team tied the record num­
ber of games won in a season in Carnegie Tech football history. The 
team won seven games and lost only one, which was the same record 
held by the 1938 Sugar Bowl team, considered to be the greatest team in 
the school’s history.
The graduating seniors on the team witnessed a great transformation 
in Carnegie Tech football. They did not win a single game their first 
year and followed up that season by only winning just one. Head coach 
Eddie Baker and assistants Ed Hirschberg, Walt Burns, and Al Irwin 
were recognized for their work helping the players achieve their 
; remarkable record.
25 YEARS AGO, November 25,1975 — All electrical power on cam- 
' pus was cut off when the hydraulic system of a crane making repairs at 
Hamerschlag Hall failed. The crane plunged over an embankment and 
knocked over the Duquesne Light supply line to the University and the 
.Bureau of Mines. Almost every academic building and dormitory was 
: affected, losing power immediately when the accident occurred.
Most elevators used backup power to go to a floor and stop, although 
’two people were caught in a Warner Hall elevator for a half hour. Extra 
security personnel were assigned to patrol the campus. In addition, the 
, director of Security made the decision to lock all academic buildings 
' and Skibo to prevent vandalism. Many RAs were asked to remain in the
areas, while others helped staff desks and distribute candles to resi­
dents. Food services also had problems preparing food for the campus 
due to the lack of energy. The power loss, which lasted for two days, 
was estimated to cost the university $50,000 in damage.
TEN YEARS AGO, November 19, 1990 — Carnegie Mellon’s Board 
of Trustees announced that all academic departments and some non- 
academic departments would be reviewed by visiting committees. 
These reviewers would consist of trustees, alumni, and outside experts. 
The purpose of these committees was to help the Board of Trustees 
become more familiar with the University and also to provide informa­
tion to departments about their current status and direction, and help 
the departments achieve their goals. The plan stated that departments 
would be visited at least once every two years by a committee of 10 to 15 
people. The committee would receive a written description of the 
department’s operation and procedures about a month prior to the visit. 
They would spend two days on campus and provide a preliminary report 
to the President at the end of that visit. About a month after the visit, 
the committee would present a written report to the President, who 
would then distribute it to the campus.
FIVE YEARS AGO, November 20,1995 — Marriot Corporation, who 
had been CMU’s primary dining contractor, decided to break its con­
tract, which would have otherwise expired on June 30, 2000. Dean of
Student Affairs Michael Murphy said that he was unsure why they chose 
to leave, although he suspected they felt it was in the best interests of 
the company. CMU would be taking over their operations.
During the spring semester, prices, hours of operation, and menus 
would remain the same. Dining Services employees would also gener­
ally remain, although several managers employed by Marriot would 
likely leave. Students had been complaining about Dining Services dur­
ing the semester. In response, Dining Services said they would try to 
offer students more for their money.
ONE YEAR AGO, November 22, 1999 — CMU Health Services 
received complaint reports concerning their services. A report written 
by senior English major Terry Watt said there had been complaints 
about mistreatments and misdiagnoses. This report prompted Student 
Senate to investigate the status of the campus medical center. Campus 
Affairs Committee Chair Nick Fitzkee met with director of Health 
Services Anita Barkin and Dean of Student Affairs Michael Murphy to 
discuss the standards that health services at CMU should meet. Barkin 
said that CMU is one of four schools in Pennsylvania (out of 92) that are 
accredited by the Accreditation for Ambulatory Health Care. In 
response to the complaints, Senate sought alternative ways for students 
to handle medical situations.
Compiled by 
Seth Mandel
Frustrated by lotions, potions, gizmos or gadgets?
Yahr Electrolysis CenterStill the only permanent hair removal!
Jane G. Yahr, CPE Dr. Charles J. Yahr, CPE
Nationally Board Certified Daytime & Evening Appts.
Squirrel Hill
(412) 422-4490
5824 Forbes Avenue
50 % off first visit with mention of this ad
ÄUD
December 2,10:00 am to 2:30 pm 
Pittsburgh Marriott City Center 
112 Washington Place, Pittsburgh, PA
Attention dancers, singers, actors, musicians, variety artists, stage 
managers and technicians. Don’t miss this opportunity to audition for 
an exciting position at Busch Gardens in Williamsburg Virginia. 
Especially sought for 2001 are musicians who play traditional Irish 
instruments and actors proficient at Irish dialects.
call our Audition Hotline: JJUSCH
1-800-253-3302 or visit: G ARPENS
www.talentsearchbgw.com WILLIAMSBURG. VA
or write: AUDITIONS c/o Busch Gardens, One Busch Gardens Blvd., Williamsburg, 
VA 23187-8785. Anheuser-Busch Theme Parks are Equal Opportunity Employers M/F/D/V. 
Video taped auditions; If you are unable lo attend any of uur auditions: send your resume, recent photo 
and video tape uf your performance to the address above. (Photos and video tapes can nol be returned.)
managing Edrtor 
Deuis Editor 
Forum Editor 
Sports Editor 
Arts 6 liuing Editor 
Entertainment Editor 
Business Editor
Photo Editor 
Rrt Editor
Dossier literarg Editor 
Dossier Design Editor 
Online Editor
Science & Technology Editor Online Design Editor
— 1 |Piit; Pf1 P®SjUJe are noiu accepting nominations for the 2000-2001 Tartan Board! The elections are 
p iue yar|an Qemocratjc Committee Chairs Comrade Brun (mbrun@andreoi) orU
Comrade Gollapalli (sriramg@andreui) for information on houi you can do your part!

---------------------------------------------------

Business
Intel tops University’s Stock options the hot
corporate donor list topic at ESITE meeting
School collected $6.5 million from 
controversial business partner
20 November 2000 THE TARTAN Page B4.
CMU Inc.
Profs take part in 
redevelopment talk
Carnegie Mellon professors par­
ticipated in conference to discuss 
the future of the area surrounding 
the Oakland Masonic Temple 
where the discussion was held. 
Professors spoke about their efforts 
to encourage students to utilize the 
world class Oakland facilities, and 
CMU administrators reiterated 
their dedication to the area as a 
place where Pittsburgh’s new econ­
omy should be based. Proposed 
plans include new parking areas, 
and a general revitalization of the 
area. Further, professors said that 
CMU students who are involved in 
the new economy, should be 
involved in the discussion sur­
rounding Oakland’s future. 
Additionally, an architecture pro­
fessor spoke of CMU students’ 
attempts to design new structures 
for the area.
Theater program 
Receives Award
Human Resources' Learning and 
Development Department recently 
received the "People Do Matter: 
Recognizing Innovation in Human 
Resources" award for its Interactive 
Theater Program. The award, pre­
sented by the Pennsylvania 
Economy League at the Pittsburgh 
Human Resources Association, rec­
ognizes employers that link learn­
ing with business strategy and 
implement new approaches to 
training and learning. Barbara 
Smith, assistant vice president for 
human resources, Brenda Harger, 
director of Interactive Theater, and 
Ron Placone, director of learning 
and development, accepted the 
award for the university and partic­
ipated in a panel discussion.
Area job forecast 
falls short
. In 1994, former CMU president 
Robert Mehrabian said that the 
Western Pennsylvania should cre­
ate 100,000 jobs by this year. 
However, the region is set to fall 
short of the goal by 30,000. 
Merhabian, though said he thinks 
the area should celebrate the cre­
ation of 70,000 new jobs. In 1993 
Mehrabian issued a dire report of 
the economy of the region, but at 
the most recent conference officials 
highlighted the six year increase in 
manufacturing jobs, which exceed­
ed the national average. Also, the 
former director of CMU’s Center for 
Economic Development, Bob 
Gleeson, who helped Merhabian 
obtain is 100,000 new job predic­
tion, said that if Western 
Pennsylvania had kept pace with 
the national average, they would 
have created 120,000 new jobs.
Compiled by i 
Aseem Gupta
by Brad Grantz
Volumell 95u,Is
During Carnegie Mellon’s effort 
to increase outside sources of 
funding through the Capital 
Campaign, the University has tar­
geted the corporate community as 
possible benefactors. The school 
has received funds and gifts in 
kind, also known as equipment 
and other tangible materials, and 
commitments to pecuniary fund­
ing totaling nearly $72.6 million 
from corporations. The account 
has been used to fund scholar­
ships, building construction, fel­
lowships, and special programs as 
well. Corporations usually extend 
their bequeathed sums over sever­
al years. The Corporate Relations 
office keeps tabs on the pledges, 
to determine the status of a corpo­
rate partner.
According to Joe Schewe, asso­
ciate director of Corporate 
Relations, nearly $22 million has 
been in the form of equipment 
and gifts in kind. 21 corporations 
donated $1 million or more to the 
school, while 212 companies gave 
between $20,000 and $500,000. 
30 businesses earmarked between 
$500,000 and $1 million to the 
University.
“The details of individual com­
panies are not something we are 
allowed to make public,” Schewe 
said.
However, companies do on 
occasion let it be known they have 
granted monies to a school. One 
specific instance at Carnegie 
Mellon is Intel Corporation, the 
semiconductor giant which 
bestowed the $6 million on vari-
CMU officials
by Sean Waters
1omuIs w,.tthsu,es
Carnegie Mellon and the 
Carnegie Institute are pursuing pre­
liminary plans to develop the area 
between Hamerschlag Hall and the 
Carnegie Institute complex.
The University hopes to attract 
technology companies to an office 
building located conveniently 
between the campuses of 
Carnegie Mellon and the
University of Pittsburgh. The 
Junction Hollow — commonly 
mistaken for Panther Hollow — 
location provides room for over 
300,000 square feet of office 
space in the valley between the 
two institutions.
Despite the strong possibility of a 
$25 million state grant, officials 
from Carnegie Mellon and the 
Carnegie Institute aren’t talking
ous colleges at CMU during the 
years from 1997 to 2000. Intel’s 
$6 million gift included software, 
hardware, maintenance, and com­
puter consultations for the instal­
lation of the equipment.
In 1997, Intel offered such dona­
tions to ten universities willing to 
submit a proposal to the company. 
Schools throughout the nation 
including other high-technology 
powerhouses such as Stanford and 
the Massachusetts Institute of 
Technology (MIT) competed.
Despite the current controversy 
swirling about the proposed Intel 
Solution Center for the University 
Center basement, Schewe stated 
that the largest corporate giver to 
the school has been an earnest 
partner.
The company has cut across dis­
ciplinary bounds by providing 
computer laboratories in the 
College of Fine Arts and the 
Design department. Schewe stat­
ed that. many corporations are 
hesitant to donate hinds or prod­
ucts to academic departments 
remiss in participating directly in 
the gravy train known as the New 
Economy. Intel also provided clus­
ters for the Heinz School.
Schewe added that having Intel 
as a corporate partner allows the 
school more flexibility. Intel posi­
tions itself as a parts supplier to 
many Companies, rather than a 
corporation that directly markets 
its products to the consuming 
public, giving it relationships with 
Dell, Hewlett-Packard, and other 
computer maters. CMU can there­
fore negotiate with Intel to receive 
products, which may suit the 
needs of a specific department 
See GIFTS, page B5
stand why University offi­
cials haven’t released more infor­
mation to the student body.
“I’m surprised that the 
University hasn’t mentioned this 
proposal to students. I didn’t real­
ize that the Intel renovations were
by Blake Engel
aeslImmer n.m.ges
With recruitment season in 
full swing, this past Thursday 
night, Reactivity, Inc. and 
ESITE, CMU’s student organiza­
tion dedicated to entrepreneur­
ship, sponsored a talk about 
stock options and what students 
ought to know about them 
before entering the work force. 
On hand from Reactivity were 
David Crow and Andrew Willis, 
two veterans at the company.
Willis began with the basics 
of options: “An option is the 
right to buy shares at some 
price,” he explained. Receiving 
stock options from an employer 
allows you to purchase that 
many shares at what is called a 
strike price. The strike price is 
the price you paid for the first of 
those shares, and the price you 
will pay for the last of them, 
even if that is five years later.
That can be either advanta­
geous or useless, depending on 
whether the price for standard 
shares goes above or below your 
own strike price. If the stock’s 
price is cheaper on the market 
than your strike price, it is 
called being “underwater.” 
(Remember, “buy low, sell 
high.”)
While options do give their 
holder the right to purchase the 
shares behind them, the holder 
cannot usually buy — or “exer­
cise” — all his or her options at 
once. Rather, purchases are reg­
ulated by a vesting schedule, 
which distributes purchasing 
across a few years. For example, 
an option holder can exercise 
25% of the options in the first 
year, another 25% in the second 
year, and so on.
part of a large long-term project 
involving multiple corporations,” 
said sophomore electrical' and 
computer engineering major 
Patrick Correa.
Correa also thinks that most stu­
dents won’t have a problem with
The vesting schedule makes it 
harder to become rich quickly 
from options, but because of it, 
options are advantageous to the 
employer. This way, employees 
are more motivated to stay at 
the company for longer in order 
to exercise as many options as 
are available.
In evaluating the stock 
options a company offers, Willis 
says one important factor is the 
percentage of the company that 
those options represent. If a 
company is worth $5 million 
and you receive 1000 options at 
a strike price of $10, you could 
potentially own 0.2% of that 
company. Although the number 
sounds low, it is actually a sub­
stantial amount.
Another factor in evaluating 
stock options is whether the 
options are considered “quali­
fied” or “unqualified.” The IRS 
allows you to pay takes at differ­
ent, more favorable intervals if 
your options are qualified.
When negotiating salary and 
options with a potential 
employer, Willis said the most 
important advice is to “be sensi­
tive.” Sometimes companies are 
hesitant to say what percentage 
of the company’s value the 
options they are offering would 
represent, and potential 
employees should respect that. 
If the person you are negotiat­
ing with is not primarily respon­
sible for financial operations at 
the company, it is acceptable to 
ask for someone who is, Willis 
stated.
Willis stressed the advantage 
of being familiar with stock 
options when choosing and 
working in a new job. “Most 
people at other companies don’t 
get the aspects of stock 
options,” he said.
the proposed location: “I don’t see 
any problem with it — the location 
is out of the way and won’t inter­
fere with everyday campus life; it’s 
not like the businesses housed in 
the proposed development will 
have a large on-campus presence.”
Biz Briefs
The nation’s steelmakers 
announced a number of shutdowns 
and layoffs this past week, citing sus­
picions of illegal import dumping by 
foreign companies.
Wheeling-Pitt goes 
belly up...again
WHEELING, W.Va. (AP) — A fed- 
eral bankruptcy judge in Ohio on 
Friday approved a $290 million j 
loan from Citibank that will keep 
Wheeling-Pittsburgh Steel Corp. 
operating while it reorganizes.
The Northern Panhandle steel­
maker, facing tough competition 
from overseas producers, sought I 
protection from its creditors under j 
Chapter 11 bankruptcy late 
Thursday in Youngstown, Ohio. 
Wheeling-Pitt filed for reorganiza­
tion 10 years ago this year.
Wheeling-Pitt, a subsidiary of 
WHX Corp., is the nation's ninth- 
largest integrated steel producer 
and has plants in Ohio, 
Pennsylvania and-West Virginia.
Like other domestic steelmakers, 
it has fought competition from for­
eign producers that began flooding 
the U.S. market with steel in 1998. 
Wheeling-Pitt is the seventh U.S. 
producer to file for bankruptcy 
since then.
Steelmakers and unions have I 
repeatedly urged the U.S. govern- , 
ment to stem the tide of below-cost j 
steel, but they say little has been 
done. Friday, West Virginia governor 
Cecil Underwood joined the chorus.
“Maybe now the Clinton-Gore 
administration finally will get the 
message that our domestic steel 
industry continues to be threat­
ened ...and that decisive action is 
required now, not later,” he said. 
“Without action, you are sustaining 
an economic hemorrhage jeopar­
dizing the jobs of thousands of 
West Virginians.”
Thursday’s bankruptcy petitions 
come on the heels of a reshuffling 
of the Wheeling-Pitt board that 
ousted James Bowen, president of i 
the West Virginia AFL-CIO, and 
eliminated the seat held by formej- j 
United Steelworkers of America 
president Lynn Williams.
WV Steelmaker 
idling operations
Folks in Weirton will not be giv­
ing thanks for their job security 
come Thursday. 2,800 of Weirton 
Steel’s 4,300 workers will be taking 
it easy this week because the com­
pany will shut down its only operat: 
ing blast furnace for 10 days) 
retroactive to Friday.
Weirton’s other blast furnace was j 
rested November 5 for maintenance 
work and will remain idle until at 
least the end of the year.
About 2,300 hourly and 500 
salaried personnel are affected; 
spokesman Gregg Warren said. 
Those with unused vacation can 
take the week off with pay, he said.
Tough Christmas in 
Bethlehem
BETHLEHEM, Pa. (AP) - 
Bethlehem Steel Corp. said 
Wednesday it will reduce opera­
tions at its Burns Harbor, Indiana, 
plant, costing about 100 employees 
their jobs.
Some will be reassigned within 
Burns Harbor plant and others may 
retire, according to Duane R. 
Dunham, Bethlehem Steel’s top 
executive, who said the company 
would record a restructuring 
charge of $6 million during the 
fourth quarter in connection with 
the change.
Dunham said recent investment 
in a new wide-slab caster at 
Bethlehem Steel’s Sparrows Point, 
Maryland, division and ingot-mak­
ing capability at its Coatesville; 
Pennsylvania, operation will 
enable the company to make all of 
the products needed to serve its 
markets.
Bethlehem Steel, the nation’s 
second-largest steel maker, said in 
October it would reduce its work 
force to make up for a net loss oi 
$34.8 million for the third quarter. 
The 34-cent-a-share loss, whicli 
included an after tax charge of $8 
million in connection with a fire 
that destroyed a building and 
equipment at the Coatesville plant, 
compared with a net loss of $89.8 
million, or 77 cents per share, in 
the third quarter of 1999.
Compiled by 
Brad Grantz
Market Newscompiled and designed by Aseem Gupta/Online Editor
MARKETSNASDAQ THIS WEEK
Index Friday
Dow Jones Industrials 10629.87
Nasdaq Composite 3027.19
American Stock Ex. 885.22
Standard & Poors 1367.72
WORLD MARKETS________
11/06/00
10,817.95
3.451.58
919.58 
1,426.69
Point Chg.
-188.08
-424.39
-34.36
-58.97
% Change
-1.74%
-12.30%
-3.74%
-4.13%
Index
FTSE 100 (Britain) 
Nikkei (Japan)
DAX (Germany)
Friday
6440.10
14544.30
6752.29
11/06/00
6385.4
14837.78
7128.27
Point Chg.
+54.70
-293.48
-375.98
% Change
+0.86%
-1.98%
-5.27%
Markets wait for elections
NEW YORK (AP) - Another earn­ings warning — this time, from BellSouth — sent prices lower on Wall Street Friday. Dejected investors, focusing on high-tech issues, followed a now-familiar pattern and turned against any company expected to deliver disappointing earnings.But the market was also looking for a reason to buy. Prices surged after a court ruling in the presidential elec­tion recount raised hopes of a resolu­tion, but the rally quickly faded when investors realized the deadlock remained.The Dow Jones industrial average, which closed down 26.16 at 10,629.87 on Friday, finished the week up 26.92, or 0.3 percent.Broader indicators showed even less change. The technology-dominat­ed Nasdaq composite index, slipped 4.69 to 3,027.19 on Friday and closed down 1.80 for the week despite a 133- point loss on Thursday.Fiber optics company Broadcom tumbled $11.50 to. $133, extending its $25 loss from the day before.For an eighth session, uncertainty
about the presidential elecdon’s out­come plagued the market.Analysts said naming a new presi­dent may help ease some of Wall Street’s volatility and make investors more comfortable about committing to stocks, but it won’t be a panacea for the market’s problems. They said slowing economic and corporate growth, along with Ev-'wean curren­cy woes and oil prices, still remain serious obstacles for a yearend rally.The month of November historical-, ly has brought the start of a rally to Wall Street, but a solid advance remains elusive. Since October 18, the Dow has risen more than 1,000 points only to give back about half of that advance.Advancing issues led decliners 12 to 11 on the New York Stock Exchange. Consolidated volume came to 1.26 bil­lion shares, compared with 1.14 bil­lion shares in the last session.Overseas, Japan’s Nikkei stock aver­age fell 0.3 percent. Germany's DAX index was down 1.31 percent, Britain's FT-SE 100 was rose 0.2 percent, and France’s CAC-40 fell 1.9 percent.
Mon. Tues. Weds. Thurs. Fri.
THE TARTAN STOCK INDEX
About the index: The index is based on 16 widely held stocks that we feel represent Pittsburgh-based and national companies that CMU students are interested in. The index is based on a start-date of 24 January. The initial index is calculated by adding the value of the 15 stocks together and multiplying by ten.
THE INDEX AT A GLANCE
Open: 7,944.38 Close: 7502.00
Change: -442.38
Year to date performance: -5308.13
Best performer: Qualcomm, +25.98%, +18.31
Worst performer: Freemarkets, -31.35%, -16.44
INDEX STATISTICS
CompanyFriday11/06ChangeAlcoa27.0027.63-2.26%Apple Computer18.5022.25-16.85%Cisco Systems52.7556.75-7.05%Freemarkets36.0052.44-31.35%H.J. Heinz Co.44.4442.005.80%Lycos41.0641.060.00%Mellon Bank45.0647.81-5.75%Microsoft69.0668.251.19%New York Times35.3337.00-4.53%PNC Bank61.7567.69-8.77%PPG43.3145.44-4.68%Qualcomm88.8170.5025.98%Sun Micro.89.31113.06-21.01%US Airways38.6937.812.31%USX Steel13.6314.88-8.40%Market data sources: NYSE.NASDAQ, & The AP. The information contained in “Market News" is not to be construed as financial advice from The Tartan or Carnegie Mellon University. Before purchasing any stock, always consult a professional.
FreeMarkets model affects 
variety of business sectors
20e Volumell Ve.,
Nv bIN aumWes,Im
In advocating the free market system, Adam Smith, the 18th Century 
Scottish economist and philosopher, wrote in his 1776 Wealth of 
Nations, that “[every individual] intends only his own gain, and he is in 
this ...led by an invisible hand to promote an end which was no part of 
his intention ...By pursuing his own interest he frequently promotes 
that of the society more effectually than when he really intends to pro­
mote it.” Smith believed that individuals conducting business for the 
sake of profit benefited the nation as a whole because self-interest 
guides the most efficient use of resources in a nation’s economy. He 
believed that individual efforts to specifically promote social good were 
not only suspect but also ineffectual compared to unbridled market 
forces.
Over two hundred years after Smith’s death, one might find it ironic 
that a company that has taken the name of Smith’s free market system 
is now attempting to advance the public good. The true irony, howev­
er, lies in the fact that the company, Pittsburgh’s own FreeMarkets 
Online, may actually succeed in promoting the public good and make a 
self-interested profit at the same time.
FreeMarkets is considered one of the premier business-to-business 
(B2B) e-commerce companies. Along with Ariba and Commerce One, 
the FreeMarkets name is usually mentioned by those who follow the tri­
umphs and travails of the nascent B2B industry. Investors and business 
school professors alike enjoy arguing about whether FreeMarkets’ 
online auction service constitutes a sustainable business model or 
whether their customers will simply implement their own online auc­
tions as the Internet becomes ubiquitous. Over the past six months 
Freeiyiarkets has aggressively pursued new customers to prove that it is 
here to stay. Two of their newest customers, however, do not adhere to 
the typical B2B customer profile. They are the Commonwealth of 
Pennsylvania and the U.S. Postal Service.
Most B2B customers are, obviously, private businesses. As such, their 
one and only objective for using a company like FreeMarkets is to pur­
chase the best possible goods or services at the cheapest possible price. 
See PINKERTON, page B5
staying quiet about possible R&D center
about the project: “It’s at a 
very conceptual stage right 
now. We really can’t give a lot 
of specifics to the develop­
ment,” said Jeff Bolton, vice 
president of financial plan­
ning for the University.
The governor has yet to 
approve the grant as part of 
his budget plans. His 
spokesman’s office did not 
return phone calls seeking 
comment. The proposed 
Junction Hollow develop­
ment could be the perma­
nent location for the pro­
posed Intel Solution Center. 
Many students don’t under-
Seth Mandel/Managing E
The University and the Carnegie institute hope to build a Research a 
Development Center between the two group’s buildings in Junction Hollow.

---------------------------------------------------

THE TARTAN • NOVEMBER 20, 2000
Vol ume9 5,V Is91 
w.th sa me9 rm9nlo .gl2 
02 NmIsavmbW 2E
by Ish Harshawat
9ED,IsSumSA0uet
Carnegie Mellon has noted 
biotechnology as the one of the pri­
mary areas of interest that the 
University will seek to focus on 
educationally in the upcoming 
years. Hoping to capitalize on the 
growing interest in the merger 
between life sciences and digital 
technology, a hodgepode of indi­
viduals founded LaunchCyte in 
Pittsburgh earlier this year.
incubator. With inroads into big 
pharmaecitical industries, for 
example, LaunchCyte can help 
market the products of its incubat­
ed firms.
The other strength, according to 
Mr. Carryer, is Launchcyte’s tight 
focus on the convergence of health 
and technology, whereas other 
incubators focus on broad-ranged 
sectors like Information 
Technology and dot-coms.
According to Petzinger, there are 
about six to eight companies that 
LaunchCyte has in different stages of
CEO LaunchCyte
LaunchCyte describes 
itself as the first business “The futWe Of bwlOBY is (Hgi-
incubator focused on “digital m °
biology” and espouses some, tal. I don’t think that many get
interesting perspectives on . _
how to realize success. One that besides [those at] CMU.”
of the most interesting
aspects is the diversity of ----- 10771 PetZUigeT\
backgrounds of some of the 
founding members. Tom 
Petzinger, the CEO, was an 
editor and journalist for The Wall 
Street Journal for 22 years before 
starting up LaunchCyte.
“I identified the convergence 
opportunity and spent many years 
finding out what works and what 
doesn’t work,” he said.
Babs and Tim Carryer, along with.
Petzinger and three others, helped 
found the company. The Carryers 
had operated their own consulting 
firm before in which they helped in 
business planning. Mrs. Carryer 
now serves as the president of 
LaunchCyte and Mr. Carryer as the 
company’s general manager.
Both Carryers also have ties to 
CMU. Babs is currently an adjunct 
professor in GSIA, and teaches 
entreuneprship, and Tim is a for­
mer faculty member in the drama 
deparment.
Other founders include scientists 
and an executive at pharmaecital 
giant Pfizer, Inc. All this makes for a 
company that sees its strengths in its 
ability to network. “Our formal busi­
ness strategy is that we bring the 
idea of a network,” said Tim Carryer.
“We just know a lot of people.”
Mrs. Carryer, who is the 
President of the company, says she 
sees the network as one of 
LaunchCyte’s big strengths as an
development right now. He said that 
the company hopes to release a prod­
uct sometime in 2001. LaunchCyte 
attempts to actively identify and 
license technologies to start up new 
companies in addition to aiding peo­
ple that bring ideas to them for fur­
ther business development.
Though the incubator has a nar­
row focus, the company’s founders 
see a variety of potential technologies 
related to medicine and health care.
“A lot of the technologies that 
we’re looking at will be very attrac­
tive to big ‘pharma.’ When you’re 
looking at spending hundreds of mil­
lions of dollars of getting a drug to 
market anything to [lessen that] will 
be very attractive,” said Mrs. Carryer.
The need for software to aid in 
research and development gives 
clues of what may come out of 
LaunchCyte’s companies. Examples 
of this include information technol­
ogy that will help in shortening 
clinical trials, or will help to mine 
data in order to decipher the inter­
action of genes and proteins within 
the human body.
Pittsburgh, the founders say, is an 
ideal place for their company. CMLTs 
strengths in information sciences 
and robotics, the University of 
Pittsburgh’s medical research, as
well as the wider medical communi­
ty in the city all create the potential 
for a lot of opportunities in biotech­
nology. Mrs. Carryer added that 
Pittsburgh has a dearth of support 
services in place for new companies 
right now. Whereas places like 
Boston, Massachusetts have been 
receiving an influx of capital,
Pittsburgh is now just starting to be
infused with start-ups, and there are 
still a lot of opportunities available.- 
Along with its eleven employees, 
LaunchCyte consults with separate 
scientific and business advisory
boards. Among
LaunchCyte’s board 
members are several 
people affiliated with 
CMU including Takeo 
Kanade of the Robotics 
Institute, Victor Weedn, 
an administrator in 
biotechnology, arid 
Richard Florida, a pro­
fessor in economics. 
“The future of biology and medi­
cine is digital,” said Petzinger. He 
added, “I don’t think that many peo­
ple get that besides [those at] CMU,” 
LaunchCyte is set to announce a 
formal partnership with Pitt soon; 
and has already started licensing 
technologies from the University of 
Pennsylvania. No formal relation­
ship has been set up through CMlj’s 
Technology Transfer Office yet, but 
Mrs. Carryer said the company has 
a lot of “tentacles into CMU.” 
Petzinger sees the company 
drawing upon CMU in two major 
ways. First, through the licensing of 
technologies, and second, through 
the employment of students and 
faculty interested in working in 
biotechnology.
Despite starting up just this past 
May, LaunchCyte just finished up its 
first-round funding of $2 million 
and will be moving into a location 
on Morewood and Centre Avenue 
on December 15. Outside incuba­
tors like Redleaf, Inc. and local ones 
like iventurelab.com already exist 
in Pittsburgh. But Petzinger said he 
thinks that LaunchCyte, with i,ts 
unique take on biotechnology, is in 
a position to put Pittsburgh on the 
map alongside the likes of Silicon 
Valley and Boston.
9 a \ Depression is a bunch of symptoms 
® I exhibited by weak people,
V \ Depression is an unbearable suppression 
I of brain activity that can strike anyone.
Straightening out all the misconceptions, the correct answer is *b'. It's a concept we should all understand and remember, and here's 
why. Depression strikes millions of young adults, but only 1 out of 5 ever seeks treatment for it. Too many just drag themselves along 
or eventually seek relief through suicide. Why not treatment? Partly lack of awareness. Partly 
the unwarranted negative stigma. This is what needs fixing. This is where we need you to YTHbHU1HR 
change your attitudes. It's an illness, not a weakness. And it's readily treatable. F Jt i
Spreading the word and making this common knowledge is eveiybody's assignment, t yi L1dCV
if 1 Cause of Suicide
Public Sen/ice message from SAVE (Suicide AwarenessWoices of Education) http://www.save.org
PIZZA
... BV DELIVERY!
AT DELIVER TO YOUR DORM 0 
STOP IN OUR OAKLAND 
STORE. CMU MEAL PLAN 
y > ACCEPTED AT BOTH
LARGE 16” 12 CUT LOCATIONS!
OR
DELIVERY: TO 29* DAILY
OAKLAND HOURS: SUN-THURS: 10:009-3:00«* 
FRI-SAT: 10:009-5:009*
THE ORIGINAL HOT DOG SHOP
CH12) 687-8327
HOW FORBES AVE
‘Pork’ not traded at Pgh-based e-biz
PINKERTON, from page B4 
As taxpayers, we would like to 
think that organizations like the 
state of Pennsylvania and the U.S. 
Postal Service would also be moti­
vated by the same cost-minimizing 
and benefit-maximizing philoso­
phy. Ostensibly, this is why they 
have contracted with FreeMarkets. 
But these organizations are gov­
ernment entities and, unlike pri­
vate businesses, they are not man­
aged simply by a profit-seeking 
motive. Government entities are 
subject to the constraints of social 
policy, cronyism and good old- 
fashioned politics. So while 
Pennsylvania is using FreeMarkets to 
buy salt and anthracite, 
Pennsylvania Governor Tom Ridge is 
reaping the benefits of giving busi­
ness to an in-state company and 
becoming recognized as a cutting 
edge e-commerce governor all at the 
same time. The fact still remains, 
however, that Pennsylvania is funda­
mentally changing the way it con­
ducts business.
Imagine if the federal govern­
ment, the largest buyer and seller 
of goods and services in the world, 
conducted all of its procurement 
through an electronic blind auc­
tion process like that of 
FreeMarkets. This means that 
Uncle Sam would not know from 
whom he is buying, only that he is
buying at the best price from 
someone who has met a pre-quali- 
fied standard. So a supplier locat­
ed within the district of a powerful 
member of Congress could no 
longer rely upon Congressional 
support to guarantee a govern­
ment contract. That supplier 
would have to provide a competi­
tive price and quality. As 
entrenched suppliers lose their 
entitlements, new and innovative 
companies could compete on 
equal footing, allowing Uncle Sam 
and the taxpayer to benefit from a 
more competitive process.
Further, consider the effect of 
social policies designed to ensure 
that the federal procurement 
process is conducted equitably. For 
example, a certain percentage of 
government contracts must be ful­
filled by small businesses and 
minority-owned businesses. Often, 
procurement offices do not have 
the resources to locate businesses 
that can fulfill these quotas at a 
competitive price and quality. With 
a B2B auction service, the govern­
ment wouldn’t have to accept sub­
standard contracts. The private 
company would be responsible for 
aggregating the suppliers and 
ensuring that the quotas were met 
at competitive prices and quality.
The ramifications of e-com­
merce innovations within the gov-
ernment system are not limited to 
procurement. The potential effects 
the Internet could have on the use 
of currency, voting, taxpaying, 
government-to-government trans­
actions, and citizen-to-govern- 
ment services like driver’s license 
renewal and parking ticket dis­
putes are unlimited. A recent arti­
cle in the Industry Standard esti­
mates that e-government business 
will be worth more than $6 billion 
by 2005.
Regardless of the particular 
effects, the Internet will most like­
ly make government more effi­
cient and cost effective. Many 
Internet companies have obviously 
recognized this and are attempting 
to make a profit while, as 
FreeMarkets CEO Glen Meakem 
proudly states, “saving taxpayers 
hundreds of millions of dollars.” 
If Adam Smith were alive today, he 
would probably reconcile the con­
tradiction between profit-making' 
and social promotion by saying 
that these businesses were pursu­
ing a felicitous means to obtain a 
profitable, and self-interested end, 
which is ultimately why society 
benefits. Then, of course, he 
would marvel at the formless and 
elusive Internet and wonder if 
there really is an ‘invisible hand’ 
guiding the course of human 
events.
Campaign takes $20 mil. worth of goods
GIFTS, from page B4
better than a direct supplier could.
In addition to the $6 million grant, 
Intel has also provided $450,000 for 
several equipment packages for 
instructional labs in the School of 
Computer Science and the 
Department of Electrical and 
Computer Engineering. The research 
project allowed the for computer 
devices to “sense environmental 
parameters using special microelec- 
tromcahanical systems (MEMS),” 
according to Intel’s Web site.
Companies usually have some 
vested interest in their contribu­
tions to a school. While a company 
obtains no contractual benefits 
from their donations, the entity
may hope to achieve a more 
friendly status for recruitment 
purposes and for research infor­
mation from faculty. Little philan­
thropy is involved, according to 
Schewe, who stated that such 
benefactor activity is usually 
reserved for corporate alumni.
Companies wanting to gather 
valuable research data and infor­
mation may contact Corporate 
Relations. The department, in turn, 
acts as a “concierge,” said Schewe. 
He added that the majority of those 
meetings are conducted through 
sponsored research projects.
Schewe stated that during the 
1990s, the University, along with 
others in the educational sector,
made a concerted effort to target 
companies to fund research pro­
jects. Due to decreasing budgets of 
government agencies, schools 
looked elsewhere for monies for 
research purposes. While the vast 
majority of sponsored research at 
the school falls under the heading 
of government-funded, corpora­
tions have made inroads.
“There was a move by compa­
nies in the 1990s into basic funda­
mental research,” said Schewe.
He added that corporate 
research and development wings 
searched for a “shorter link” 
between a product and the 
research needed to move the pro­
ject forward.
A SUITE FOR LESS THAN 
A HOTEL ROOM
Elegantly furnished one- or two-bedroom apartment suites include an equipped kitchen, 
fluffy linens, TV, VCR, cable movies, free local phone service, and reserved parking. 
Conveniently located at 5405 Fifth Avenue, Shadyside. Two blocks from Walnut Street’s 
145 fashionable shops and 12 delicious restaurants. One mile to CMU/Pilt/Hospitals.
DAILY, WEEKLY, MONTHLY RATES
5405 Fifth Avenue 
Pittsburgh, PA 15232
(412) 441-4444
http: //www. shadysideinn. com
Incubator finds niche in tech sector

---------------------------------------------------

Due to the Thanksgiving break, there are no movies scheduled 
in McConomy Auditorium this weekend. Films resume next 
Thursday with Kikujiro. Now for something completely different:
I really don’t want to talk about next week’s movies individ­
ually, because they’re pretty much all the same boy-meets-girl 
story, except for the Sunday movie, the 1978 remake of 
Invasion of the Body Snatchers (showing in McConomy 
Auditorium) which is more of a girl-meets-girl story.
I got a message from Adam Sandler the other day. He feels 
really bad about The Waterboy and hopes everyone forgives 
him.
Without question, Comedy Central is a quality network, even 
though they never show Benny Hill anymore. Unfortunately, 
they seem to like showing aggressively unfunny movies like 
Blame It on Rio and lame stand-up comedy shows. The low 
quality of most televised stand-up makes me a bit hesitant 
about seeing the Friday movie The Original Kings of Comedy, 
(showing in McConomy) which was originally tided Bitches 
Ain’t Nothin’ and then Yo Mama’s So Stank before settling on 
the more politically correct choice.
I don’t think that anyone likes political correctness other 
than certain off-the-wall groups (“WOMYN Who Hate Men,” 
“Unpopular Religious Groups for a Better Tomorrow.”) These 
people are way too easily offended by even the most innocuous 
things. Like when Puerto Ricans protested an episode of 
Seinfeld because Kramer accidentally burned a Puerto Rican 
flag. Give me a break. Only a severe lack of mental capacity 
could lead someone to think that the writers were trying to 
express anti-Puerto Rican sentiments — they just wanted a 
way to get those ambiguously gay “street toughs” into the 
show. Because of protestors, though, that episode will never 
air again, which is pathetic. Guess what, protestors? 1 have it 
on a tape and it’s almost as funny as your efforts to prevent me 
from seeing it. I think political correctness also explains my 
affinity for some rap, most notably Dr. Dre. Sure, I’ll never be 
able to legitimately talk with my buddies about how I “pack a 
nine” or have “switches for the bitches” in my “six-four,” but at 
least someone’s out there doing it.
This inanity has caused our standards of decency to become 
warped beyond belief. For example, when I was in high school, 
my class watched a popular and moving film about a tragic 
20th century war. Two scenes involved female nudity; one was 
a very attractive young girl getting it on and the other was a 
gross elderly woman being oppressed. For some reason (sit 
down for this one) we were only permitted to see the latter dis­
play. If this makes any sense to you at all, send me a message 
explaining how and why, and then go try to locate your miss­
ing hormones.
I bet you thought I was going to at least say something about 
Kikujiro (showing Thursday in McConomy).
With my reign as author of this column winding down, I’m 
scrambling to address all of the topics I’ve always meant to, 
one of which is frivolous lawsuits. I’ll begin by saying that if 
you’ve ever threatened to sue someone, then you’re a jerk. 
Some of you in readerland might be thinking, “No I’m not! I 
had a good reason to sue!” Oh, too bad, looks like you’re an 
extra-double mega-jerk. The worst suits are when people sue 
for millions for emotional damages. What a bunch of losers. If 
the court finds that someone does, in fact, owe you for this, 
you should be allowed to get three (3) of the following items 
for free as compensation: a case of beer, a pack of condoms, a 
lollipop, a new CD, a new sweater, a lap dance, or a fire extin­
guisher. Naturally there are exceptions: if, say, someone ran 
over your son with a car, you should get both the car and a 
chance to hit them with it.
I think we can all agree that getting hit with a car would real­
ly suck, but I think that listening to B94 (motto: “At least we’re 
not the Steelers!’’) for an hour would be substantially worse. 
Check out this station’s roster of heavy rotation bands. Creed: 
these turkeys have a beer-like effect on my brain cells rivaled 
only by Kid Rock. Hey guys, just release an album of Pearl Jam 
covers and get on with your lives. Baha Men: Apparently some 
people are still into “Who Let the Dogs Out?” That tune was 
old the first time I heard it. Destiny’s Child: Their popularity 
has to be apocalypse-related. Other Bands They Play on B94: 
N/A. Even some music from the 80s (all synths, all the time) is 
better than this modern rubbish, and that frightens and con­
fuses me.
The other day I became engaged in a discussion regarding 
the maximum age one would choose for his sleeping compan­
ion. I suggested the relatively low age of 25; some of my 
friends (who have since been replaced) went as high as 45, cit­
ing Michelle Pfeiffer as their reason. Let’s be realistic; to land a 
girl of that magnitude one has to have portrayed either Indiana 
Jones or Han Solo. Fortunately, Harrison Ford has done both, 
which is why he was tapped as both my hero and Pfeiffer’s co- 
star in What Lies Beneath. This is the part of the column where 
we stop.
Entertainment
20 November 2000 THE TARTAN Page B6
BY ANDY FRANCIS
collage by Justin Suissa/Art Editor
James Brown makes it funky at Heinz Hall
CONCERT REVIEW
~£>y Debra Halpern
Mpw,.tthsu,es
It’s a Monday night, and in Heinz Hall, a 
_ ¿crowd of Pittsburghers are going wild. They are 
flapping and jumping around as if they have 
;r.been saved — it’s just like a scene on a Sunday 
¦•..morning church revival. Only one man can be 
on that stage. That man, ladies and gentlemen, 
is the one and only godfather of soul, Mr. James 
Brown.
James Brown broke into the music scene with 
his hit “Please Please Please” in 1959, after that 
his peak came in 1966 with “I Got You (I Feel 
Good)” and “It’s a Man’s World.” Since then 
Brown has become a music icon for a variety of 
different musicians of all genres. His show on 
Monday confirmed the truth of all his talent.
;; The show began with a 15-piece-band playing 
soul and funk; soon an announcer introduced 
the Soul General, the man who leads the band. 
. The announcer himself than proceeded to come 
on stage. At this point, the audience knew it 
wasn’t just a concert, but a real show with all the 
^ trimmings. The announcer — note that he was 
; Brown’s personal announcer — then called out
¦ The Bittersweets, James Brown’s four back-up
singers. Then came the moment the audience 
had been waiting for, but not without a calling, 
the announcer got everyone on their feet shout­
ing over and over again “James Brown.” Soon 
the godfather followed his calls and entered on 
stage singing “Get On Off a That Thing;” oddly, 
the audience sat down and stared at Brown in 
wonder, how could they not? He has an essence 
that one cannot grasp without taking the time to 
compose himself and get into Brown’s groove.
James Brown sang all his hits: “Living In 
America,” “Sex Machine,” “I Got You (I Feel 
Good),” “It’s A Man’s World,” and “Please Please 
Please,” but it doesn’t matter what he sings. The 
key to the show is the intimacy he creates with 
his band. The stage was full on Monday night, 
but everyone in the audience felt like James 
Brown knew who they were and was singing just 
for them, because he was. The hype James 
Brown creates is delegated among the musicians 
who are a part of his expedition. You see, Mr. 
James Brown conducts his show like no other: 
he becomes the backdrop while still being the 
star of the show. True, this is a contradiction, but 
this is how he creates the show. Each band 
member is given a chance to show his talents, 
including the back-up singers and a dancer who 
showed off her Spanish rap — a low point in the
show, but still not horrible. Another key to 
allowing band members to show off their talents 
is that they don’t know they are doing so until 
James Brown signals them on stage, which 
makes the moment more special for both the 
audience and the band. Each band member is a 
prodigy of his or her instrument; she stands by 
the great James Brown without looking any less­
er than him, because he allows it to be so and 
because he knows they create the sound he 
thrives on. James Brown doesn’t only pay 
homage to his band, but also to the audience, 
which rarely happens nowadays, when he said, 
“I don’t have to go to work but I enjoy it cause 
you made me what I am.” James Brown won’t 
even let the light shine on him, but he can’t stop 
it and it showed — when he sang “It’s A Man’s 
World” in the middle of his performance he 
became raw and undone to the audience.
Monday night was unlike any other. There 
was soul, funk, warm fuzzy feelings, roses being 
thrown over the great James Brown, dancing, 
and most of all a wild audience who just could­
n’t get enough, giving James Brown three stand­
ing ovations. The man behind me said it best to 
the CMU student accompanying me, “You will 
appreciate it later.” All will appreciate it later, 
today, and yesterday.
Character development fascinates film critic
FILM REVIEW
finds empirical proof to support his belief. 
Elijah Price, as a prophet-in-training, provides 
Dunne with that evidence. But through the 
process, hundreds of men, women, and chil­
dren die. The movie, in other words, shows the 
devastating impact of a belief system upon soci­
ety and questions whether such system is 
worthwhile.
One might answer that it is, and others might 
disagree.
Unbreakable does not propose that there is a 
right answer. The movie is not political, in that 
way. The focus of the movie is not to persuade 
the audience but to show the characters’ des­
peration for transcendence and meanings. 
Elijah Price does not think that his life is a 
worthwhile one until he finds out that Dunne is 
a divinity-in-disguise and that he is a prophet. 
The characters’ need for transcendence is com­
municated in almost every scene.
In addition, in almost every scene, the movie 
portrays the characters’ obsession for empirical 
evidence. For example, to prove that Dunne is 
unbreakable, Dunne’s son, who believes that 
his father is unbreakable, points a gun at his 
father. Without empirical evidence, the charac­
ters cannot see, cannot believe, and cannot sub­
scribe to, a belief system. Unbreakable does not 
criticize religions as much as it shows the 
impact of obsessive need for empirical evidence 
upon the lives of the characters.
The characters’ need for empirical evidence 
coupled with their urge for transcendence is 
ultimately the film’s center of attention. Thus 
the main character, in this movie, is neither 
Price nor Dunne. The characters are no more 
than vessels, objects, through which the movie 
delivers its satirical message.
Unbreakable is a lot more succinct and more 
intellectual than Shyamalan’s earlier work, The 
Sixth Sense. In The Sixth Sense, he provides the 
audience with entertainment. Here, in 
Unbreakable, he leaves the audience with ques­
tions and no answers.
Final Grade: A
train wreck who finds himself miraculously 
unharmed, while Elijah Price (Samuel L. 
Jackson) is painted as a prophet-in-training. 
Price believes that Dunne is some sort of a 
superhuman — if not a god — and whose dedi­
cation to his belief goes to the extent that he is 
willing to sacrifice his life and the lives of oth­
ers.
Although the movie is filled with religious 
images, Unbreakable seems to criticize belief 
systems. Dunne, as Jesus-in-training, does not 
know that he has superhuman abilities until he
Bruce Willis (left) and Samuel L. Jackson star in YmNse.W.Nref the latest suspense-filled action thriller 
from writer, producer, and director M. Night Shyamalan.
by Danny A. Silitonga
w,.tthsu,es
Only through trials and errors does the char­
acter of Jesus, in John Milton’s Paradise Lost, 
»realizes that he is the Son of God. David Dunne 
;(Bruce Willis), in M. Night Shyamalan’s latest 
film, Unbreakable, is no different from Milton’s 
Jesus. He is a Jesus figure who is in search of 
. his identity.
Dunne is the single survivor of a devastating
© Touchstone Pictures. All Rights Reserved.

---------------------------------------------------

THE TARTAN • NOVEMBER 20, 2000
Adam Sandler talks candidly about his critics, demons
(U-WIRE) CAMBRIDGE, Mass. — Adam Sandler is 
notoriously press-shy. He doesn’t like critics, he 
doesn’t do interviews, he doesn’t want to be analyzed, 
dissected, uselessly praised or arbitrarily condemned. 
But Adam Sandler, fortuitously enough, also likes col­
lege students. After spending the last two years mired 
in various movie and music projects, Sandler finally 
has enough time to tour around the country and visit 
with the audience he cares about most.
Sandler, of course, exploded to fame in the ’90s after 
the successive hits Billy Madison, Happy Gilmore, and 
The Wedding Singer. With blockbuster performances in 
The Waterboy.and Big Daddy, he confirmed his position 
as one of the biggest box-office draws in the world. At 
the same time, his films are clearly critic-proof; 
Sandler doesn’t care what’s written about him as long 
as audiences keeps laughing.
In New York to promote his latest comedy, Little 
Nicky, Sandler not only explains the mechanics and 
themes that hold his movies together, but also reveals 
the irresistible charms of his approachable, laid-back 
personality.
Adam Sandler: Oh, so you go to Harvard. You know 
with the whole Harvard thing, it’s with you the rest of 
your life. Everybody I know who’s gone there, every- 
time you ask them where you go to school, they have 
to sheepishly whisper “Harvard.” Don’t be embar­
rassed for your brilliance. [Pause.] Now the questions 
better be good.
The Harvard Crimson: One critic called your last 
album “a cyborg sent on the planet to torture me.” You 
don’t get lots of nice reviews for your movies, either. 
Are there any that stand out in your memory as partic­
ularly terrible?
AS: I get it good from the critics. I can’t really think 
of any specific ones; I mean, I always see the words 
“sophomoric,” “juvenile,” “moronic,” “useless,” “hate,” 
“unwatchable.” I can’t think of a quote I laughed at, 
though. The worst part about all of it — as a guy who 
gets a lot of shit from critics — is like, one time I was in 
a room with a person who kept going on and on about 
how much he loved the movie and he’s just going nuts 
and looking me in the eye. That night, I see him on TV 
saying “This movie is useless.” And I’m like, “Dude! 
That’s the guy who was nice to me.”
You know, like this morning, I read Variety and The 
Hollywood Reporter and they gave us two good reviews 
for Little Nicky. But then I was like, “I don’t care.” I’ve 
only gotten bad reviews from them — I’m not gonna be 
like, “Ooooh. I finally got 'em.” I’m more like, “Fuck 
you. I don’t give a fuck.”
In the beginning I did, when I did Billy Madison, but 
now I realize I didn’t get into this business to have a 
critic like me. I got into it to get people to laugh. As a 
kid, I went to the movies to laugh my ass off, to hang 
out with my friends, to go on a date.
THC: You tend to play nice guys with anger manage­
ment issues. They’ve been getting more and more gen­
tle over the years, but it’s a recurring theme up to and 
including this movie. Is it related to your real life tem­
perament?
AS: In real life, I do have a bit of that problem. But 
over the years, I’ve been getting better, I think. I like 
playing characters who get insulted a lot and who lose 
their temper because of it or can’t think of a snappy 
comeback.
But you’re right — I do like snapping and yelling, it’s 
part of my comedy. Sometimes when I’d snap in my 
house growing up, it would make my dad laugh. Or 
sometimes, he’d smack me.
THC: Did making this movie raise any spiritual
issues in your own life?
AS: It made me not want to go to hell more. I’ve 
never thought about hell that much. I choose to ignore 
hell in my life. When I was a little kid I asked my Dad 
“Am I going to go to hell?” because I’d heard about 
hell. And he said “No, no. You’ll be all right.” So I 
asked, “What do you gotta do to get into hell?” And he 
said, “Nothing you’re gonna do will get you into hell.”
And so I got to ignore it. And then we started shoot­
ing the film and I thought, “Maybe my father was 
lying.” Because there are several things I’ve done that 
are borderline, that could get me there. And so it made 
me realize that I better stop doing those things. I don’t 
want to repeat those things.
I like heaven. I know my Grandma’s up there, and it 
will be nice to see her.
And Chubbs.
THC: How do you collaborate on your writing 
process? Is it the same for every movie that you write?
AS: Okay, good question. Well, so far, I’ve thought of 
the idea for every movie. Me, Adam Sandler. I’m in my 
room, I think of it, and I say “Well, this is fucking gold.” 
And so then I call my friends up and tell them the idea. 
And they say, “Yeah, Sandler, you’re unbelievable. 
How’d you think of that? You’re the funniest.” They say 
things like that. Like, “I’m so psyched that I get to hang 
out with you. You’re cool, you’re charming, you’re 
funny as shit.” And then we get to the process, you 
know. But throughout the process they continue 
going, “Fuckin’ A, man.”
Ok, no. Actually, what we do is we sit in a room and 
try to beat out an outline for the movie. Say, you know, 
we come up with a story line.
Actually, on this movie, me and Hurleyhee were 
writing and Covert was helping and Jack, our produc­
er. And we didn’t have a flow going, and we called this 
guy Steve Brill up, and he actually rejuvenated us and 
got us a good story line. And we all jammed together 
on that. It’s just trying to make each other laugh. 
Trying to have the script make some sense, the story 
make some sense, and make sure we get enough 
laughs.
THC: It’s not exactly a message movie though, is it?
AS: Good conquers evil. That’s a nice message. There. 
are jokes in there that — it depends on how you look 
at it — but it will be offensive to some. We don’t mean 
to offend anybody. But ultimately if I went to the 
movie with my niece, who’s eight, I’d like to be there 
with her and tell her about it. I’m sure you’re not liter­
ally against hearing the word hell. But the jokes and 
the stuff, and the sexual stuff is goopy. I don’t think 
any man watching this with the sexual content gets an 
erection. I’ve seen movies where I’ve gotten a full-on 
erection, and I was excited about having the erection. 
But this movie in particular, besides Neilon’s head, I 
had no erection. The dogs making love was nice, 
though.
THC: You have such a close bond with your casts and 
you obviously have lots of actors who consistently 
appear in your films. Do you just do the casting your­
self?
AS: We do it together. We do know with Covert that 
we like to have him just be uncomfortable for a few 
days. Not the fact that he was gay, but the fact that he 
had to shave the top of his head and gain a lot of 
weight — that was fun, to humiliate him. And then he 
was in Happy Gilmore we made him grow a beard and 
be dirty. And in Wedding Singer we made him comb his 
hair different and wear a Michael Jackson jacket. And 
we had him make out in Big Daddy with our other guy. 
That was fun for both of them.
O 2000 New Line Cinema, Inc. All Rights Reserved.
Adam Sandler stars in his latest comedy Little Nicky, which opened earlier this month.
AS: Well, you don’t tell him that. You lie. (laughs) 
No, I mean, every time I see the bees covering Henry in 
the movie, I laugh my ass off. I mean, I called Henry up 
and was like, “This is a thankless part and it sucks but 
would you like to get covered in bees?” And he’s like, 
“For you, sure.”
Later, when he had to go through two hours of 
makeup to get the after-bee-sting swollen effect, I 
don’t think he was so happy with me. But his son was 
there and his son likes me, so it was all good.
THC: How annoying was it to have to speak out of 
the side of your mouth the whole time in order to get 
your character’s distinctive voice?
AS: It wasn’t that challenging. I just did an impres­
sion of a kid I knew grewing up who used to talk like 
that. He was the type of guy who knew lots of rock n’ 
roll facts and used to make up lies when he didn’t 
know something. You know like, (hissing) “I saw 
Zeppelin last week.” And we’d be like, “No you didn’t.” 
Then he’d be like, “My cousin saw Zeppelin last week.” 
And we’d be like, “No he didn’t.” Then he’d be like, “My 
cousin has a live Zeppelin poster. It looked like all the 
people were having a fucking good time.” So yeah, I 
just used his weird voice. It wasn’t too hard.
THC: Which Adam Sandler movie would you take to 
a deserted island?
AS: I’d take Billy Madison. It was the first one, it was 
the one that got my own vision out there. It was my 
mother’s favorite one. You know what, though — I’d 
like to hang out with Bobby Buscet (the character’s 
name in The Waterboy').
THC: Quentin Tarantino has been M.I.A. forever. 
Where in the world did you find him to do a part in the 
movie?
AS: (laughs) He is a great man, that Tarantino. His 
movies are great and he’s funny. I see an interview 
with him, I laugh my ass off because he says it with 
such passion. Every thing he says he believes one hun­
dred percent. We thought he was funny and we wrote 
this part and told his agent about it. Quentin came 
over to my house one morning at like 10 am and just 
hung out with us. We got along and that’s that. Now 
. we hang out with Quentin all the time. We flew to 
Vegas with him — that was the coolest. The best thing 
I’ve ever seen was that we stayed out really late one 
night and hung out with Rodney Dangerfield and the 
next day we get up at like 1 pm — we don’t know 
where Quentin is. And we’re walking through the casi­
no and we see Wolfgang Puck’s restaurant and there’s 
Quentin, eating his pizza alone, still wearing the same 
clothes from the night before. Greatest moment ever.
THC: But how does the whole cameo work? Like in 
the movie, Henry Winkler gets attacked by bees. Do 
you just go up to Henry Winkler one day and ask him 
if he wants to get attacked by bees?
Wanna START
something?
Eaton Corporation. Who?
We're a high-tech, $8.4 billion global manufacturer 
of highly engineered products. Get out!
We're looking for exceptional graduates to 
join our ranks. Hoy! That's me!
Visit us online. You're online? Sweet!
Or join us on campus. We're interviewing select candidates. 
That's me...again! Candidates attracted 
by a fast-paced business environment. I love it!
Are you challenged by a competitive 
work atmosphere, where teamwork is essential and the 
best idea wins? I'm there! Then register with career 
services for an on-campus interview. First in line, man.
We look forward to discussing your professional 
vision as a potential Eaton associate. I can't wait!
Go ahead. Start something with the best company you 
know nothing about. Try and stop me.
For more information or to apply online, 
go to wvAv.eatonjobs.com, 
then check with your Campus Career Services Office.
The BEST company you know nothing about.
THC: So you’re on your tour to interview college stu­
dents. Any regrets about your own college life?
AS: I wished I relaxed some more — academically, I 
mean. You know, like when I watch A&E alone, I just 
soak it in and I can talk about it after. In college, I was 
like, “Shit, will that be on the test?” But I met my bud­
dies, formed bonds with those guys, and the loyalty is 
still there.
THC: Actors are always asked about what challenges 
them in their craft. But looking at your movies, can 
you pick out one thing that really forced you to stretch 
your range?
AS: Big Daddy had a crying scene. In real life, I had­
n’t cried in fifteen years. When I was a kid, I used to 
run to a mirror every time I cried — it was fun to look 
at myself cry. That scene was tough but I think a real 
tear did come out of my eye. I don’t think that’ll hap­
pen again.
THC: Let’s look into the future. Will we ever see 
Adam Sandler doing drama?
AS: Maybe some day. But I like doing comedies. Still, 
Paul Thomas Anderson wrote this wonderful movie — 
and it’s totally different from all my stuff— but I think 
I’m gonna do that. Ultimately, who knows what’ll hap­
pen. I started doing comedy when I was 17 and I’m still 
addicted to it.
THC: How long will you stick around in the enter­
tainment industry?
AS: Good question, ‘cause I really don’t know. I have 
a girlfriend — and we talk about the future. I mean I 
wanna have kids one day and we talk about when I’ll 
slow down. There’s a lot of things I want to do. I hope 
she doesn’t dump me. (laughs) I just love what I’m 
doing right now. Maybe I’ll retire when I’m 53 . That’s 
when my dad retired.
AIDS Awareness Week 
features daily events
PITTSBURGH, from page BIO
will be performed. A Benefit Dance featuring the Coal Country Cloggers 
will begin at 7 pm in McConomy Auditorium of the University Center on 
Wednesday. Thursday brings a luncheon titled “HIV and AIDS: Trends 
and Treatments” by University of Pittsburgh Men’s Study Clinician 
Bridget Calhoun. It takes place in the Connan Room of the University 
Center at noon. RSVP to ck3@andrew.cmu.edu. A candlelight vigil that 
will be sponsored and hosted by SoHo will take place on the Cut at 6 pm 
on Thursday. And finally on Friday, World AIDS Day, a reading of the 
names of AIDS victims will take place from 10 am to 4 pm at the Fence 
along with a showcase of the AIDS Memorial Quilt in the Connan Room.
• If you missed the opening weekend of the School of Drama’s Grimm 
Tales at the Phillip Chosky Theatre in .the Purnell Center, don’t despair. 
You can still catch a performance on Wednesday the 29th, Thursday thje 
30th, Friday the 1st, or Saturday the 2nd. This production features the 
fairy tales of the Brothers Grimm, who have penned their fair share Of 
\classics, such as Snow White, Little Red Riding Hood, and Rumpebtiltskin. 
Performances start at 8 pm and tickets can be purchased by calling the 
School of Drama Box Office at 268-2407.
• It seems like every week I extol the newest event in the University 
Lecture Series, but there’s yet another great program this week about 
the integration of research and education. Joseph Bordogna, deputy direc­
tor of the National Science Foundation, will speak as part of a special sym­
posium that brings together the schools that won the prestigious RAIRE 
(Recognition Awards for Integration of Research and Education) and AIRE 
(Awards for the Integration of Research and Education). In light of the 
recent buzz on campus involving Intel and the University Center, this pro­
gram takes on extra significance. It will take place at 4:30 pm in the 
Adamson Wing of Baker Hall next Thursday the 30th.
• Ladies and gentlemen, a date has been announced for Pittsburgh’s 
wit’s end: December 10. Don’t fear. The city will not have a nervous break­
down or blow up. That day simply marks the last day that Wit will be per­
forming at the O’Reilly Theater, Downtown. This 1999 Pulitzer Prize-wifi- 
ning play by Margaret Edson is both a comedy that reveals what we leajjn 
from facing our own mortality as well as a powerful drama focusing on1 a 
brutally demanding professor’s battle with ovarian cancer. To get more 
information, call 316-1600 or visit http://www.ppt.org.
• Despite the arrival of snow in the area, it is still possible to check out 
some roller coasters. This activity is possible through the Carnegie Science 
Center’s “Scream Machines” exhibit which is currently on display at 
the museum. It features 11 multi-station, interactive exhibits that reveal 
the science behind those crazy rides. And when I say “roller coaster ride,” 
I’m referring to the amusement park variety, not the Pittsburgh Steelers’ 
current season. (But it is ironic that the Science Center is located next 
door to Three Rivers Stadium.) Call 237-3400 for more information.
www.eatonjobs.com
Accounting 
Engineering 
Human Resources 
Information Technology 
General Management 
Strategic Planning 
Supply Chain 
Technical Sales

---------------------------------------------------

29th on the professional mahjongg circuit. Any questions?
L«?e itf ©looouVl I
1 POlO'T TMiiOVl
Pwy»Æ wiuu 
THEHARNa/e •HR
I DOMTTHWte > 
AUNOME HAS Btfi.
v Loveu ME. yby Scott Adams
EXCELLENT. WE CAN 
USE NON-LINEAR 
MATH AND DATA 
LINING TECHNOLOGY 
TO OPTIMIZE OUR 
RETAIL CHANNELS!
WE HAVE A GIGANTIC 
DATABASE FULL OF 
CUSTOMER BEHAVIOR 
.JNFORMATION.
IF THAT'S THE 
SAKE THING AS 
SPAM, WE'RE 
HAVING A GOOD 
MEETING HERE.f JUST OSCE ION 
Mb UFE, X'P 
u«e To H€Aa. 
tue woacs "i Vlovesou¦' v
IF X CAn5‘T 
6 ET Lov/e, 
U0W4 OVMB20
X 6W6 LOVE?
I Love 
.you!
¡kATBERT: EVIL H.R. DIRECTOR
UK. . .
DO YOU 
HAVE ME 
IN THAT 
DATA­
BASE?
SHOULD UJE SELL 
OUR MAILING 
LISTS, SPAM 
WITHOUT MERCY, 
OR IUST BLACK­
MAIL CUSTOMERS?
WE KNOW 
ALL ABOUT 
YOUR 
CLUMPING 
PROBLEMS.
WHAT'S THE MOST 
EVIL WAY TO 
USE OUR DATABASE 
OF CUSTOMER 
INFORMATION?
TUee.E i s N
MO LOVE io &-rc. uloftuc. .
X UATEE^EM- 
OmE AnU EVEIW 
^TUuJG. _
TO BÆ (40M6ST, 1 u)AS Justtesting you. IF aoo SAy "i uwe mou"OkiE MOÛ.E T1M&, X'LW
OÌEUE-/6 you.
X WISH you 
LOVE(7 ME, suryou WT.
I'M THE
NEW
TEMP.
ISN'T THAT 
DANGEROUS?
THE DOGBERT TEMP 
AGENCY USES 
GENETIC ENGINEERING 
TO GROW OUR OWN 
WORKERS.
UM. . .
I'M
ALICE
I WEAR 
SAFETY 
GOGGLES
OOOWEE! 
THAT WAS A 
GOOD HAND 
SHAKE.
XT'S A PLEASURE 
TO MEET YOU, 
ALICE.
IS AJ 
fie, A
PISH XNfr&f 
\ E -------"1
CHE<* 
THE ^ TUftT 1
I'M FROM THE 
DOGBERT TEMP 
AGENCY. DO YOU 
NEED A HAND?
THEN I SAID, 
"DON'T GET MAD 
TRY COUNTING 
TO FIFTEEN."
GET
WHAT?
OUCH
THAT'S 
BECAUSE 
ALL THE 
ORIGINALS 
WERE BLANK
MAYBE YOU 
COULD HAVE 
CHECKED 
THE OTHER 
SIDES.
THESE COPIES 
YOU MADE 
FOR ME 
ARE BLANK.
TALK 
TO THE 
HAND.
THIS HAPPENS TO AU (VI EN fri 0AIE F^X/VT<?* /MorttER
jslater ©andrew.cmu.edujslater @andrew.cmu.edu
I've derided not to be funny this week. 
So you might as well just slop reading 
now, it’ll be pretty dull from here on.
Don't you think this is exaggerating 
just a bit?What the heck is all this junk'Stop wasteful practices!!uiiwdimipoo CarCnAbsolutely nothing is going on.
^ It's a physical \ 
L representation of all ' 
P the work that's been 
J dumped on me in the 
last week before break. 
It's my way of protesting.
Actually by my 
calculations I still 
need another 
dumptruck worth 
"of stuff to match 
my workload.
Stop giving me 
'more homework!!
cjr>£) Not even testing my cool 
i •=' TMiew antigravity device today.
I'm serious.
home foMjreak.
THE TARTAN « NOVEMBER 20, 2000
i_rinM:
any of you have written in asking Comics Man 
.what he does with his spare time. Comics Man, 
glTfeilraifl iH [|j| ” realizing he is the subject of intense interest in and around
umu campus because of his celebrity status, has deigned to
respond to The Question. The Answer? Mahjongg.
really, officer, there’s no problem Competitive mahjongg, in fact. Comics Man is ranked

---------------------------------------------------

The Harder They Are The Farder They Chew
My Life As A Mega-Volt Blaster Of Disaster
by: James Kenney (email: jpkenney@andrew.cmu.edu)by Michael Fry & T. Leu/is
AH... REMOTE PARENTING 
...I'VE HEARD OF IT.
HEY.' NATE AND NORENE 
ARE BACK TOGETHER...
NO. HE’S JUST IN TO SEE OARA AND GET A FEW OF HIS THINGS.
ClARA, HONEY... 1 JUST BECAUSE c 
DADDY ISN'T HERE ALL THE TIME, DOESN’T MEAN HE DOESN'T LOVE YOU.
HONEY,DON'TCRY.ITDOESN'T.
HOW Í 
DOES IT Î 
WORK? 3
L ClARA, MOMMY AND ' 
DADDY HAVE TO WORK 
SOME THINGS OUT ANDIT’S BETTER IF WE DO
V THAT APART. U
WHAT
HAPPENSTODAY?
k WELL, IT USED 1 
TO BE THOUGHT THAT 
PARENTS wDzY­a STAY 2zG92D9b FOR THE SAKE OF THE , 
k CHILDREN. u
t KIDS 
wDzY­aTp2 
STAY iHaw FOR THE SAKE OF 
THEIR PARENTS.
1 2D9B wUB BzY Gbz' Ya xUw2HTS 
2D9 pVYbVwdddAh no please god no argh the pain my 
ankle I think I twisted it all wrong please 
make the pain stop ah ah oh the pain 
why can't I move my ankle why is it 
pointing out like that oh I can't look 
I think I am gonna puke eurghauergghhh 
huh huh uoohhhhh ah hruh hruh gahghh.
I went to the doctors and they had no 
explanation for the transparency of my 
left hand. They gave me a shot in my 
butt and charged me $20, basically I paid 
for a limp. I became moody and impatient. 
My hand shook and I sometimes lost 
control, discharging bolts of electricity.
CLARA, DON’T T REBEL AGAINST L YOUR PARENTS BECAUSE THFY’RE HAVING SOME MARITAL >
PROBLEMS, rflj
ADzTf A­UbU6ddd I’LL PUT OUT THE RzGf THEN DRIVE YOU TO ab9S . wADzz­p d
THEY STILL LOVE YOU. THEY’RE 
JUSTA LITTLE....
¦DISTRACTED.
CLARA, YOU’RE rMH
ONLY 'zddd F'rYOU SHOULDN'TRUN AWAY FROM YOU GUYS
YOUR PARENTS. CAN KEEP
1 EVEN IF AN EYE ONI THEY Ub9 ME UNTIL I A« SPLITTING UP. LEARN THE
i ROPES. ?
IT’SNOT THAT THEY CAN'T HANDLE THE 
RESPONS­
IBILITY... THEY JUST CHOOSE 
NOT TO.
PARENTS?.
"Miss may I ask how on earth you got 
4th degree internal burns...in...there?" 
"Like I told you before, it was from my 
boyfriends super-mega volto blasts!
His uncontrollable powers will destroy 
us all if we don't act soon. I can feel 
the zombie spell destroying my mind!"
My super X-ray electric bolts of extreme 
displeasure cause the victim to flash 
in and out of existence, rendering them 
mindless zombie slaves. Mindless zombie 
slaves imbued with the very same power 
I wield, but no morals. The zombie in the 
example above shoots bolts from his back.
The Phatmaster
http://phat.res.cmu.edu/phatmaster/ .
if wi*r«5
ndm@andrew.cmu.edu
"New boy in the neighborhood lives downstairs ana it‘s understood.He’s there just to take good care of me."Charles in Charge of our days and our nights..So I set about attempting to write the Great American Novel. But as I knew not how to go about it, I got a book written about how to 
write books by a highly respected authority on the matter.
The first rule of writing, I learned, is that you cannot have your book and eat it too. The second rule is to write romantically, yet realistically. Third, one must always live by what one writes. Finally, a novel should be 1000 to 1500 pages long.
After I'd completed watching all 96 episodes of Maison Ikkoku, I had no idea what I should do with my life.Yikes, this is worsethan when they triedto bring back who's The Boss?
Ushrug)... YI Yea/), I'm just passing time \ [until Three's Company 2000J
Godai Shri"You propose to establish a social 
order based on the following tenets: 
that you're incompetent to run your 
own life, yet competent to run the lives of others - that you’re unable to 
earn enough money to buy your own 
alcohol, yet insist upon the right to consume mine _
Furthermore, his life was complicated by his alcoholic neighbors who mooched off him incessantly and told blatant lies to decrease his quality of living. 
Eventually, he rebelled and earned the respect of his intellectual equal, whom he proceeded to marry.
Thus enlightened, I began to write about a young man whose every action was misunderstood. Simple communication would have solved the problem, but society's rules of politeness prevented frank discussion.
Strangely enough, I was unable to find a publisher, but I felt better knowing that I had not compromised the integrity of my work.
"Charles in Chargeof our wrongs and our rights:.
VVA/rholIC 2.000
Yxtv.-VM*0*’ 1 
Viere iW»s ^ 
'5 !
(fA tu.|CÍA^ Vis
i/vv ckillm
4t> MtrTctfJv
he hc\d Some 
a SS;'slants .
fob i re .co^
¦tevui. £ %>ûêo$<& fcoWi re. co tu
PS* is Ki<ST“ realtyl&SS&r VfluMiey. '

---------------------------------------------------

Calendar
20 November 2000THE TARTANPage Bio
Turkey for me, Turkey for you. In Pittsburgh there’s a lot you can do.
DO PITTSBURGH!
by Greg Nofi
9m,es,.um&em, 95u,Is
What wonderful times we live in.
Even though college students are often too overwhelmed with 
work and/or alcohol to care about what happens beyond tomorrow, 
weather.com now has a 70-day forecast. 10 days! So right now you 
can check out the weather that you will be confronting when you go 
home for Thanksgiving (snow) as well as the forecast in Pittsburgh 
for when you will be coming back (also snow).
If you’re looking for some things you can actually to do during 
those next 10 days, look no further than right here.
• Barry Williams as Greg Brady may not have been able to smoke 
without coughing up a lung in front of his “friends.” And it sucked 
that he had to share a room with his significantly younger brothers. 
But at least Williams was able to score a date with Florence 
Henderson, who played his mom in The Brady Bunch. Now he’s even 
cooler as Captain Von Trapp in a touring production of The Sound 
of Music. If the Bradys’ performance of “It’s a Sunshine Day” or “We 
Can Make the World a Whole Lot Brighter” didn’t rock your world, 
what about a Williams rendition of “Edelweiss”?
If you’re interested, you can check him out and the rest of the Von 
Trapp Family Singers at the Benedum Center this Tuesday through 
Sunday the 26th. For tickets, call the Benedum Box Office at 456- 
6666.
• You’ve heard of rock stars having side projects, right? (Each 
member of Pearl Jam and Sonic Youth must have over a dozen by
now.) But what about classical side projects? That’s exactly what 
College of Fine Arts faculty member and Pittsburgh Symphony 
Orchestra Concertmaster Andres Cardenes has done. The violinist is 
currently the leader and artistic director of the Pittsburgh Symphonic 
Chamber Orchestra, an ensemble that hosts the series Nuance. This 
series, which begins its second season on Tuesday, gives the orches­
tra members a chance to branch out musically and out towards the 
community. The opener is called “Mozart and Tango” and will take 
place at the Katz Performing Arts Center in Squirrel Hill. For tickets 
and more information, call 392-4900.
• Fleck or flight? No, I’m not butchering the old Darwin fight-or- 
flight idiom. I’m referring to the decision you face Wednesday night. 
Sure, you could fly home on Wednesday for Thanksgiving, but you’d 
be missing Bela Fleck and the Flecktones. They’re touring to 
promote their latest album Outbound, which features a concoction of 
bluegrass, jazz, and world beat sounds. The concert will take place at 
the Palace Theater in Greensburg. For more information and tickets, 
call 724-836-8000.
• World AIDS Day is Friday, December 1 and there are plenty of 
activities leading up to the event sponsored by Student Life and 
Student Health Services. AIDS Awareness Week is taking place 
next week to remind us that, despite the nation’s decreased con­
sciousness of the disease over the past few years, the widespread 
presence of AIDS still exists. On Monday the 27th, “Songs of Love 
and Loss” will be held in Rangos Ballroom, University Center at 7 pm. 
Tickets are free with a CMU ID and area available at the UC 
Information Desk. On the next day at the same time, location and 
price, Ted Hoover’s “These Days: Eight Monologues on a Theme”
See PITTSBURGH, page B7
courtesy of Pittsburgh Broadway Series
Barry Williams plays Captain Von Trapp in the touring production of The 
Sound of Music, which arrives at the Benedum Center this Tuesday.
monday, 11/20 monday, 11/27 thursday, 11/30ongoing
Benefits Workshop. 4:30 to 6 pm in the
McKenna Peter Room, University Center. 
Presented by the Career Center. Contact: 
268-2064.
French Table/Discussion Group.
11:30 am to 12:30 pm in the Schoenwald 
Lounge, New Baker Hall Wing. Contact: 268- 
4066.
All Is Quiet. 8 pm in the Scene Shop, 
CFA. An independent drama production.
"Neglect and Attention in the Human 
Brain,” by Marsel Mesulam, MD, 
Northwestern University Medical School. 4 
pm in BH A53, New Baker Hall Wing.
Wednesday, 11/22
Indigenous. 7:30 pm at Rosebud, doors 
open at 6. Tickets: $16 in advance; $18 at the 
door. Presented by Elko.
Bela Fleck & the Flecktones. 8 pm at
the Palace Theater. Tickets: $20/$25, all 
seats are reserved. Visit http://www.tick- 
etweb.com.
Saturday, ll/25_
The Back Doors. 7:30 pm for all ages and 
10 pm for 21 and over. Tickets: $10,
http://www. ticketweb.com.
“War Requiem.” 8 pm at Heinz Hall. 
Featuring Robert Page, Carolann Page, 
Doulas Ahlstedt, and Stephen Bryant, with 
The Mendelssohn Choir of Pittsburgh, The 
Pittsburgh Symphony Orchestra, and The 
Children’s Festival Chorus. Tickets: $8-$24.
Sunday, 11/26
CMU Women’s Basketball vs. 
Waynesburg College. 6 pm in Skibo Gym. 
Contact: 268-8054.
Do you have an event you would 
like to publicize in The Tartan 
Calendar? It’s free!
Send it totartan@an.drew. emu. edu.
Songs of Love and Loss. 1 pm in Rangos 
Hall 1. Robert Hugill’s American Premiere.
tuesday, 11/28
These Days. 7 pm in Rangos, University 
Center. Eight monologues on a theme by Ted 
Hoover.
Interactive Multimodal Scientific 
Documents, by Angel Luis Diaz of IBM. 
4:30 pm in Wean Hall 7500. Contact: 
http://www.so/tware. ibm. com/techexplorer.
President Roundtable Dinner. 5 to
6:30 pm in Schatz Dining Room, University 
Center. RSVP required. Contact: 268-8704.
Flu Shot Clinic. 9 am to 1 pm at Student 
Health Services. Admission: $12. Contact: 
268-2157.
Wednesday, 11/29
Guns & Violence: What We Know
That Ain’t So & Argument from 
Authority in a Policy Dispute, by Preston 
K. Covey, Center for the Advancement of 
Applied Ethics. 12 to 1 pm in Baker Hall 
154R. Contact: http://
caae.phil.cmu.edu/caae.
AIDS Awareness Benefit Dance. 7 pm
in McConomy Auditorium, University Center. 
Sponsored by the Coal Country Cloggers.
thursday,11/30
“Just Say Know: Living with Drugs in 
Americaby Ethan Nadelmann. 7 pm in 
Porter Hall 100. Presented by the Pittsburgh 
ACLU. Contact: (412) 681-7736.
Lecture by Joseph Bordogna, Deputy 
Director, National Science Foundation. 4:30 
pm in the Adamson Wing, Baker Hall.
HTV and AIDS: Trends and
Treatments. Noon in the Connan Room, 
University Center. Luncheon with Pitt Men’s 
Study Clinician Bridget Calhoun, MMS. RSVP 
required. Contact: ck3@andrew.cmu.edu.
Kukujiro. In McConomy Auditorium.. 
Admission: $1 with CMU ID and $3 without. 
Presented by AB Films.
Candlelight Vigil. 6 pm on the cut. 
Sponsored and led by SoHo. Part of AIDS 
Awareness Week.
“DSP in Genomics: Processing and 
Frequency-Domain Analysis of 
Biomolecular Sequences,” by Dimitris 
Anastassiou, Columbia University. 4 to 5 pm in 
Room 125, Scaife Hall. Presented as part of 
the ECE Seminar Series. Contact: 
http://amp. ece. emu. edu/ECESeminar/.
friday, 12/1
World AIDS Day, Reading of the Names. 10 
am to 4 pm on the cut by the fence. Contact: UC 
Information Desk.
CMU Women’s Basketball vs. Thiel 
College. 7 pm in Skibo Gym. Contact: 268- 
8054.
The Original Kings of Comedy. 7:30 and
10 pm in McConomy Auditorium. Admission: $1 
with CMU ID and $3 without. Presented by AB 
Films.
Saturday, 12/2
What Lies Beneath. In McConomy 
Auditorium. Admission: $1 with CMU ID and $3 
without. Presented by SDC Films.
Carnegie Mellon Jazz Ensemble. 4 pm in
Kresge Theatre, CFA.
Madrigal Dinner. 6 to 9 pm in Rangos Hall, 
University Center. Reception and full course 
dinner with student performers and the 
Carnegie Mellon Chamber Choir. Admission: 
$10 with CMU ID, $8 for children, $20 for all 
others. Tickets on sale at the UC info desk. 
Contact: 268-8704.
Sunday, 12/3
CMU Men’s Basketball vs. Johns 
Hopkins University. Noon in Skibo Gym. 
Contact: 268-8054.
CMU Women’s Basketball vs. Johns 
Hopkins University. 2 pm in Skibo Gym. 
Contact: 268-8054.
Invasion of the Body Snatchers. In
McConomy Auditorium. Admission: $1 with 
CMU ID and $3 without. Presented by AB 
Films.
CMU Men’s Basketball — Carnegie 
Mellon Tournament November 25 at 1 
and 3 pm and November 26 at 1 and 3 pm in 
Skibo Gym. Other teams include Thiel 
College, Wooster College, and Washington & 
Lee College. Contact: 268-8054.
“Grimm Tales.” November 15-18, 29, 
30, and December 1 in the Philip Chosky 
Theatre. Presented by the School of Drama. 
Contact: 268-2407.
“The Sound of Music.” November 21 
through 25 at 8 pm, November 25 at 2 pm 
and November 26 at 2 and 7:30 pm at the 
Benedum Center. Part of the Pittsburgh 
Broadway Series. Contact: 412-456-6666.
A Regina Gouger Miller Gallery 
Exhibit. From November 9 through 
December 15. On Floor 1, “Digital 
Explorations” a screening of the latest digital 
work by the Schools of Architecture and 
Design. On Floor 2, “Works on Paper” by fac­
ulty from the Nagoya Zokei University of Art 
and Design and Nagoya Zokei Junior College, 
Japan. On Floor 3, “Kindred Spirits,” recent 
works by Marlene Aaron, Peggy Lynn Cox, 
Marilee Keys, and Anne Wolf. Admission: 
free. Contact: 268-3618.
“Aluminum by Design: Jewelry to 
Jets. ” Through February 11 at the Carnegie 
Museum of Art, Oakland. Contact: 662-3212.
“MeatDreams.” Through December 3 at 
the Melwood Photography Gallery, Oakland. 
Color photographs by Bob Kubiak. Contact: 
681-5449.
Cross Currents. Through November 30 
at University of Pittsburgh Art Gallery, Henry 
Clay Frick Fine Arts Building. Open 10 am to 
4 pm Monday through Wednesday and Friday 
and Saturday and 10 am to 8 pm on 
Thursday. Closed on Sunday.
Gifts of Winter. Through February 28 at 
the Hunt Institute for Botanical 
Documentation, fifth floor, Hunt Library. 
Hours: 9 am to noon and 1 to 5 pm, Monday 
through Friday and Sunday 1 to 4 pm. 
Admission: free. Contact: 268-2434.
Undergraduate Art Shows at the 
Frame. Noon to 5 pm, November 29 through 
December 3 at the Frame Gallery.
“Scream Machines.” Current exhibit at 
the Carnegie Science Center, North Side. It 
features 11 multi-station, interactive exhibits 
that reveal the science behind roller coasters. 
Contact: 237-3400.
oxpopuli
official voice of Ann B. Davis
"ish, look at my new dress”
...because as we all know, a Caffeinated Jetwolf is a Happy Jetwolf.
,[M0m A2HUU R/MB 1
R , |V m ^g l|gO R
They call her Flipper....
Freedom is the 
right of every sen­
tient being.
SORT?? THAT'S OUR MIDDLE.NAME !
,LVH rMuUMsLeB•
Happy
...right in the back...OUCH! Thanksgiving!
Vox Pof/jli is a forum open to the enUre campus community! To 
submit a vox. simply email it to ,.m.duQ.m5&dE&ode,uof send it 
to Die Tartan. University Center, Box 17 via campus mail, or drop 
it in the tox Populi drop box on the siick-loottng Tartan server. 
The comments in this box do not reflect the views of The Tartan 
. or anybody in general. It is basically a bunch of gibberish, and if 
an-,thing sounds remotely feat or interesting, then you're reading 
way too fnucfi into it.
Who would refuse the pope’s mack? 
come on, no one!
oh HAIL no!
if he is big tonight, 
remember him tomorrow.
mummy, he s gone rotten | m sorry j b)ew up your fT10m
... .and-his name is lamar vannoy.
Natural Light is a quality beer.
no'clustering 
for a week
He's the head of a internationally-respected 
G ’n R racks! ¦ but ultimately sinister corporation.
40 oz. to freedom...
' hi trr/ narre is nary and here is %- pic
Screw this 
Natty...rm gonna 
grab some Beast.
“And the Dude was most certainly lazy, quite possibly the laziest man in Los Angeles County, which would place him quite high in the runnin' for laziest worldwide.”
"Yo uoprous 
etab ls ihcd d d 
nfw g:y inf 
:nfwbyd:yn'm 
hni:tfyamd
