DU to Survive,
bg| tartan
April 24, 19/3 Volume 73 Number 25
BUT NO PROMISES
Allison Doubts 
Service Cuts
by Debbie Siegel
A group of Carnegie-Mellon University 
engineering students will reveal findings of 
a three-month study of consumer products 
at a special presentation Thursday , April 
26.
The program, scheduled for 1:00 to 
4:30 p.m. in Scaife Hall Auditorium, is free 
and open to the public.
The students undertook the research 
project as part of a new course. Hazardous 
Product Analysis, now being offered to 
undergraduate engineers under CMU’s 
Engineering and Public Affairs program.
Over the last semester the class worked 
as eight student teams to perform in-depth 
examinations of 24 common household 
products, studying the items from the 
standpoints of safety and utility. The 
results of these tests have revealed not only 
design or engineering shortcomings of 
specific models, but also general principles 
of safety or utility overlooked by manu­
facturers today. Examples of products 
studied are riding toys, electrical plugs and 
cords, toasters and power drills.
The Thursday program will include 
student presentations on ten of the pro­
ducts, with team members available for 
continued on page 9
$25.00 fee and 40% will be taken from the 
number of meals that haven’t been eaten
“The space allocation of Margaret 
Morrison to CFA seems final ... at the 
moment we are assuming that the building 
is ours, as well as trying to determine allo­
cation,” said Joseph Ballay, Associate Dean 
of GFA and Head of the Department of 
Design.
“The difficulty here is in keeping the 
departments in as nearly a contiguous 
space as is possible.” He stated that all 
changes will involve a “series of specific 
department moves” and that “finalization 
depends on these.”
When asked whether the financial cut­
backs have seriously affected the F.A. 
program, the Associate Dean stated, “I 
think we have been prevented from ex­
panding..courses, rather than being forced 
.to cut back. All things considered, we came 
out about even (for next year’s faculty and 
courses).”
“The talk is,” said Ballay, “that the 
M.M. move ought to be finalized before the 
end of the fiscal year (July I). But no one 
will be making any final moves until all 
peripheral questions are answered.
When asked about his view concerning 
opinions that CFA is on the “down- 
continued on page 9
But With
by Joan McClusky
Contrary to reports. Delta Upsilon is 
not going to close down. Eight faithful 
brothers have decided that the oldest 
fraternity on campus cannot be allowed to 
just disappear, and after many frustrating 
attempts to raise money and increase 
enrollment, a few of the frat’s members are 
still optimistic about making Delta Upsilon 
more attractive, more in tune with what 
guys on the CMU campus “are looking 
for.”
The TARTAN visited Delta Upsilon on 
Wednesday night, and talked with 
president Joe Goldman, ex-president Harry 
Malone, and some of the fraternity 
brothers. Many are full of ideas, and the 
frat has been receiving a lot of support 
from both old Alumni, and International 
Headquarters.
“When the International Headquarters 
heard we were going to close,” says 
Goldman, “they were kind of upset. We 
haven’t really seen the results of their help 
yet, but they wrote a letter to all our 
alumni. The letter was rather poorly 
worded, it said, “D.U.’s in trouble; send 
money.” We got a couple of responses 
here, the International got a large number, 
and the administration got a laree number. 
The money was all sent to the Inter­
national for the purpose of publishing an 
alumni directory during the summer 
months, then we can make another appea' 
for money.”
Aside from merely appealing for money, 
however, the fraternity is trying to change 
itself. “We can be anything we want to 
be,” says Goldman. “We’re the only 
fraternity that can say that.” This summer 
they’re planning on converting a lot of the 
old three person rooms, which are not too 
highly desirable, to singles and doubles, in 
the hope of attracting more members. With 
only seven members, “rushing” as it is 
traditionally known would be rather 
difficult to accomplish, so the fraternity 
has been planning “a unique rush. I’d 
rather not go any further at this time.” 
says Goldman.
Photo by Bruce Edelston 
An electrical engineering student from
Carnegie-Mellon University has just returned
from a trip to Antartica where he assisted in
measuring changes in the earth's magnetic field. 
James Bopp, a native of Berkely Heights, N.J.. 
accompanied Dr. Hans P. Lie of Bell Laboratories 
on the expedition sponsored by the National 
Science Foundation. Mr. Bopp worked for Bell 
Labs last summer, and was selected for the ex­
pedition because of outstanding previous work. 
Jim is a member and treasurer of Kappa Sigma 
fraternity at CMU, and is president of the Insti­
tute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers chap­
ter on campus. He is also a member of Tau Beta 
Pi, the electrical engineering honorary. _________
Changes
A large number of animals at the 
fraternity give the place a homey touch, 
but the TARTAN was informed that 
between that and the beer in the basement, 
the place wasn’t smelling too hot. “We’re 
having it fumigated this summer,” says 
Goldman. “This place has developed quite 
a distasteful odor.”
Bad smells alone are not what are 
keeping members away, however. Asked if 
the other fraternities care that interest in 
D.U. is dwindling, “1 think they do,” says
Joe Goldman, president of DU, says, ";We 
can be anything we want to be."
Photo by Bruce Edelston
?'Goldman. “If D.U. goes out of business, 
it’s a threat to them. We’re not the only 
fraternity that’s having problems. I’d say 
well over half the fraternities have been 
having problems for a while. At the same 
time I firmly believe that though frater­
nities are taking a dip in membership, 
within a few years fraternities will come 
back, and be a very strong part of this 
campus.” President Goldman feels that 
fraternities have developed a “square” 
image, which he disputes. “If you walk 
continued on page 8Bauer to 
Visit USSR
A Ca/negie-Mellon University 
metallurgist has been selected by the 
National Academy of Sciences for a one- 
month survey visit in the Soviet Union.
Charles L. Bauer, associate professor of 
metallurgy and materials science at CMU, 
will visit a total of 16 institutes in five 
Soviet cities: Moscow, Leningrad, Kiev, 
Tbilisi and Voronezh. During the tour, 
which will begin May 12, he will deliver 
lectures in Russian and talk with fellow 
Soviet scientists on a wide variety of topics 
in the metallurgy and materials field.
The visit is being conducted under an 
exchange program between the U.S. 
National Academy of Sciences and the 
Academy of Sciences of the USSR.
In 1967-68 Dr. Bauer was awarded a 
senior postdoctoral fellowship by the 
National Science Foundation to conduct 
research at Kyushu University in Fukuoka 
City, Japan, and the Institut fur allgemeine 
Metallkunde and Metallphysik in Aachen. 
West Germany. He has twice been an 
invited professor at the Ecole Poly­
technique Federale in Lausanne, 
Switzerland.
Dr. Bauer came to Carnegie-Mellon as an 
assistant professor in 1961 and was 
appointed an associate professor in 1%6. 
He is also a senior research metallurgical 
engineer in the Metals Research Lab­
oratory. ___________
There has recently been some 
questioning as to what the policy of food 
service will be for next year. Before spring 
vacation, a list of possible packages a 
student may choose in regard to food 
service and housing was offered. There 
were some references suggesting the 
possibility of closing down Morewood 
Cafeteria, stopping seconds on food and 
unlimited beverages. According to Dave 
Allison, head of food service, none of these 
measures will be taken unless enrollment at 
CMU significantly decreases or a number of 
people go off food contract. To maintain a 
balanced amount of contract customers it 
will be necessary to get about 1250 people 
on contract, which was the approximate 
number of people on contract this year.
Those students who pay their money 
for food contract before May 15th will not 
have to suffer from an increase in price. 
The options for contracts will remain the 
same as this year and go as follows: 21 
meal which is the basic plan will be $350,
15 meal plan will be $330, 10 meal- 
Breakfast and Dinner wil be $270, and ten 
meal with lunch and dinner will be $300. 
These rates are by the semester. One basic 
difference is that girls will be paying the 
same amount boys paid last year, but to 
equalize this amount they will suffer less 
from an increase in housing. After May 
15th, the price goes up $30 for a semester 
and $60 for a year.
In regard to a refund policy, every per­
son who wants a refund after they have 
paid the money will have to lose an 
administrative fee of $25.00 and the 
amount of money for the meals cost will 
be subtracted up to ten days. After the ten 
dav trial period, the customer loses theSlipsticks vs 
Coffee Pots
yet.
Food Services Director Allison says More- 
wood and unlimited seconds will survive 
next semester if 1250 students buy food 
contract. Photo by Frank Stein.
Presently $.45 are paid for every dollar 
brought in on food. Dave Allison is opti­
mistic about cash sales in Skibo and attri­
butes some of the success to the extended 
hours and all year round service. Presently 
there are proposals being created for re­
decorating one of the lines in the Kilte 
Cafe, re-decorating the TARTAN grill, and 
possibly buying a prefabricated freezer. 
This freezer would allow the purchasing of 
a large amount of meat for a good price 
and would alleviate worries about con­
tinuous inflation. In previous years there 
have been a drop of people on contract, 
but this spring there were more people on 
contract than last spring. Allison doesn’t 
anticipate any large cuts and if there are to 
be any setbacks he prefers to stop serving 
unlimited beverages, before closing More- 
wood.__________
CFA's Ballay 
Optimistic

---------------------------------------------------

Paae 2-THE TARTAN—Tuesday, April 24, 1973
EDITOR’S NOTE
The last editorial of the year:
As far as l‘m concerned the year is over. When these words appear in 
print, the last paper of the year will be put to bed. No more ads will be 
accepted. No more announcements will be tolerated. It is time for all the 
members of the TARTAN staff to relax, or at least relieve themselves of 
one pressure factor. The weather is warm; go out and sunbathe on the cut. 
Go and forget for a while that the TA RTAN exists. Cleanse yourselves. It 
is time for the last editorial of the year.
One function of a last editorial is to review the year that went 
before. Well, it sure had its ups and downs. There was tragic romance and 
lost love, but there were also invaluable experiences. / never thought last 
September that my self-indulgent words would be filling up page two 
under Editor’s Note, but I’m glad they have. The future is looking 
bright.
The TARTAN has grown and prospered well this year. It gained 
some respect and a few friends and even managed to stir up some 
controversy. It started off by attacking Ron Rutledge and ended up with 
Susan Klein’s Scotch ’n’ Soda review, managing in between to call for 
Dean Steinberg’s resignation, to suggest running Pat Di Cesar e out of town 
and to irritate Student Senate more than once. It also covered such juicy 
stories as the Drama Department scandal, the Beta Sig pot bust, the 
subversive poster that was removed from a Drama Department play and 
the Drama building that was never built. It was a bad year for drama.
The university as a whole seemed to take a step in the right direction, 
however. Under President Cyert, the university has battened down its 
hatches, ordered its organization and seems to be really ready to improve 
itself as much as possible. A sense of fair-mindedness emanates from 
Warner Hall and even if it requires some yelling and screaming to keep the 
liberal arts at C-MU from being inadvertantly overlooked, there is a feeling 
that someone will at least listen. Now if we can only find a way to 
eliminate the dead wood that Cyert himself admits is standing in the way 
of effective change.
As for the state of America, the six o’clock news says it all.. AH those 
who voted for honest George last fall can say "/ told you so” as Nixon’s 
closest buddies are hauled off to court. The Vietnam war ended this year 
except for the few tons of bombs that are still dropped. The economy has 
been in a state where all the experts say we’re doing well, but wages and 
prices are frozen, meat is boycotted and no one outside the U.S. wants 
any part of a dollar. And the worst part is that there is still virtually four 
more years of this administration.
Another function of a last editorial is to pay tribute to staff members 
who are leaving. To Alice Bright, who has faithfully, cheerfully and 
efficiently taken care of business, which is the second most important and 
thankless job on the paper, we wish an appropriately bright future. To 
Jimmy Margulies, whose brilliant cartoons were often the best thing in the 
paper, we wish the best of luck in getting syndicated. To Carl Grefen- 
stette, whose monumental mystical personals, winning smile and ace 
photographs have made him one of the real personalities of the TARTAN 
staff, we wish continued luck at life. And to Mina Gera/I, ace typist and 
irregular ace reporter, we send our collective love and secret wishes that 
Pitt’s grad school will save the city from a qreat loss.
The final function of a last editorial is to end the year on a postive 
note. Therefore, the TARTAN officially wishes everyone the best of luck 
in finishing the semester and enjoying a well-deserved, much needed 
summer vacation. God bless happy endings.Stephen Saunderstartan
Editor in Chief...................Steve Saunders Entertainment Editor Susan Klein
Business Manager.................Alice Bright Entertainment Staff . . Terry Cay wood
News Editor...........................Gary Singer Nonie Dempsey. Arnie Karr
Features Zditor .... Shelley Burhans Paula Shubock, Hank Levy
Special Editor ...........................Chris Infante Steve Perkin«.Susan Mayer
Assistant News Editor . . . Debbie Siegel Winton Snyder, Jay Corpus
News and Features Staff . . S, Breisch Doug Stone
Gary Bronheim, Mike Hill Sports Editor ......................Jeff Engtund
Kathy Knobloch Sports Staff .........................Dan Buis
Thomas Lang, Joan McClusky Roger Geddes, David Girdany
Craig Collins, Steve Correll Glenn Campbell, D.R. Sullivan
Sharon Curcio, Brandon Dula Bruce Hoffman, Eric Johnson
Photography Editors .... Ed Levine Sybelle Mryczko, Dave List
Elliot Arons Greg Mason, Jim Sivak
Photography Staff . . . . Henry Collin; Political Cartoonist . . Jinyny Margulies
Ellen Eddy. Bruce Edelston Copy Staff ................................Mina Gerall
Carl Grefenstette Cyndy Schmidt
Nick Lardas Greg Nickel Business Staff ......................Beth Bowers
John Shettel, Frank Stein Advertising Mjnaqer . . Dwayne Smalls
Kevin Scott, Ric Werme
Letters
The Editorial Board of the TARTAN reserves the right to edit or withhold any copy that it considers 
«•fit for publication. Putrfished every Tuesday during the academic year at Carnegie -Mellon 
University. Pittsburg. Pennsylvania, 15213. Editorial and Business offices are located in Skibo 50 
Telephone (4121 682-4557 or extension 656.
Editor:
As a self defined major in H&SS who 
had shirkingly opted for the “ungraded” 
system, 1 was most fearful for my 
prospects for admission to law school. 
Happily, I can now report that 1 have been 
accepted by each school to which I 
applied.
I wish to thank the faculty and the 
Dean of H&SS for their support of my 
decisions and for their encouragement in 
those periods when my resolve weakened. 
With commitment such as theirs, and with 
the courage displayed by the students of. 
H&SS, this most important component of 
the “experimental college” cannot fail.
I also have warm praise for the H&SS 
advisory system, whose contribution to the 
triumph of “education” over graduate 
school tyranny is truly immeasurable.
The future is most heartening.
Steve Jurman
P.S. A finer TARTAN than this semester's 
I have never seen. No sarcasm intended.
Editor:
As our campus becomes more and more 
apathetic and more and more aggravated 
about being so, I thought that someone 
might want to know about some of the 
decent things that are going on in front of 
our very noses. Unfortunately, I can only 
think of one.
There is a course offered by the History 
department, known to some as “The 
Woman in America,” to others as “Pro­
blems in American History: Women,” and 
to others as just “79-224.” It is just about 
the only course offered at this university 
which is exploring, studying, discussing or 
even recognizing the fact that there is a 
movement in this country among women, 
that attitudes are changing rapidly, that 
there are reasons for this, that there have 
been women in the past who have written 
books and acted in ways that are still, in 
some.schools of thought, taboo today.
This semester, the course has been parti­
cularly interesting. For the first time, the 
class has a significant (almost 50%) number 
of males enrolled in it. This has provided a 
lot of excitement, understanding and con­
troversy to the course, which already has 
the asset of a fine professor, Ms. Mary 
Gordon.
I was unhappy to hear that there hadn’t 
been too many preregistrants for the 
course, and that male enrollment seemed 
to be slipping back to its old, negligible 
level. Since the course has a lot to offer; 
since nobody wants to take the courses 
they preregistered for, anyway; since the 
material is new and since both the males 
and females on this campus could stand 
some education on a subject they speak 
about with such absolute authority (yes, 
that one), I’d strongly suggest that people 
give the unrecognized trend-setter, 
“79-224,” a good, long second thought.
Arnie Karr
Editor;
I’ve endured much insipidness as an 
athlete here at C-MU, but the latest is too 
much. The athletic department won’t let 
the track team go to the PAC Champion­
ships on the premise that “school policy” 
will not allow outside activities during 
finals.
Mr. Haines, if you don’t think these 
men have the maturity to prepare for our 
finals, why the hell do you schedule four 
meets during a week that probably has 
•more exams than any other during the 
spring semester.
r , °. •
4','s'
SOMETHING REPARATIONS CAN NEVER PM R>R.
I’m damn fed up with the “priorities” 
of money distribution and favoritism on 
the athletic program. What makes the other 
championships more important than the 
track championships. I’m fed up with this 
athletic program; why don’t you go ahead 
with those plans to cancel track, Mr. 
Haines and Mr. Swank, since you do so 
little for it now, ’cuz I can’t take your 
hollow reasoning any more. President 
Cyert, I respectively remind you that the 
athletes of this school feel you support us.
As a runner, I’ve worked damn hard . . . 
harder than most other athletes I’m proud 
to say. There’s many other athletes in the 
“minor sports” at CMU who work just as 
hard. But my point is not to state athletic 
effort and win-loss records as a mark of 
superiority. I’m leveling my blast at CMU’s 
athletic department and the administration 
officials who perpetuate its inequality. My 
thumb to nose to you until you can prove 
yourself worthy of my respect and make 
me proud to wear CMU athletics across my 
chest.
Dennis R. Sullivan.
Editor;
Ever since I attended my first Student 
Senate meeting back in 1969, I have 
realized that the stuff*of which most Stu­
dent Senate meetings are made does not 
lend itself to glorification in the media. 
The minutes drag, and seemingly endless 
amounts of time are spent debating seem­
ingly inconsequential issues, such as 
whether to forbid painting the trees (by 
the fence) more than ten feet off the 
ground, or whether to ask President Cyert 
to stop using melting salts on campus, and 
so forth (both of the above-mentioned bits 
of earthshattering legislation were intro­
duced by myself).
Thus, when something of interest does 
happen in a Senate meeting, a TARTAN 
editor somewhere along the line decided to 
take a cheap shot at Senate, exploiting the 
old cliche that Senate isn’t what it could 
be. As Senator Thompson pointed out in 
his letter last week, a deeper analysis than 
any malingering TARTAN editor has ever 
provided is needed to fairly estimate the 
accomplishments of Senate.
One of Student Senate’s most important 
functions is the distribution of Activity 
Fee money to student-run organiztions; 
this function, certainly, Senate is at least 
performing satisfactorily, since they keep 
the TARTAN well-funded!
Henry Collins
[Editor's Note: The TARTAN realizes and 
appreciates the Student Government’s 
support yet upholds its freedom of 
expression and responsibility to its 
readers./

---------------------------------------------------

THE TARTAN—Tuesday, April 24, 1973—Page 3
NEWS COMMENT
“7o a new student, the first week of college will probably be exciting 
and confusing by turns. The University makes every effort to assist 
incoming students in finding their way around, in making new friends, and 
in becoming adjusted to life on campus. In addition to the student 
organizations, student advisors, the faculty, and the deans, who all help in 
making the newcomers feel at home, there is a special program planned 
for Orientation. ”
Because of the heated controversy concerning the freshman orienta­
tion program of last September and by the possiblity of uncovering a 
CMU sequel to the “Pentagon papers”, / decided to enter this controver­
tía I battlefield and uncover TRUTH. After my first discovery, the under­
graduate catalogue, which was reprinted above discusses the hardships of 
first coming to Carnegie-Mellon University, (the ”initial shock"), / ven­
tured further only to discover that when / asked freshmen about the 
orientation program, / would be subjected to name calling, door slam­
ming, and water balloons. One freshman even called his mother about me 
and she was going to sue for libel until she looked "orientation ” up in the 
dictionary, and founds contrary to her son’s report, that it was not a dirty 
word.
Well, my further determination only resulted in more of the same 
abuse but / was able to draw the following conclusions: Contrary to the 
budget of the Student Senate which allots a large sum of money for a 
freshman orientation, no such program did exist.
The undergraduate catalogue was truthful, the first week of college is 
exciting and (mostly) confusing. The catalogue isn’t even that far from the 
truth when it says that the administration and faculty go out of their way 
to be helpful.
Most freshmen did suffer from the lack of such a program. It made 
friend-making more difficult and more limited to people living in your 
dorm. It also left many students without any of the necessary information 
for survival.
It is not easy to do undercover work, and / will henceforth leave it 
for Daniel EHsburg.
Next year’s orientation promises not to conform to the tradition 
established by last year’s fiasco. A detailed and worthwhile program is 
now being organized which includes dinners at faculty members’ homes 
and a special orientation issue of the TA R TA N.
Gary Singer 
News Editor
Among the many valued TARTAN staff members that we will be losing 
to the great hard world this May, there is one person, who although she is 
not very visible, is responsible for the maturation of the TARTAN. 
Besides the hard work of our Editors in Chief in trying to improve the 
TARTAN’s quality and magnitude, our business manager is by far the 
most important member of the staff, since without her there would be no 
money with which to publish the paper. Alice Bright works diligently, yet 
quietly, to allow us to print twenty-eight page papers. It is Alice Bright, 
our graduating Business Manager, that the Editorial Board of the 
TARTAN salutes and thanks so that all can see. We wish to her w.'iJi she 
has brought to us, success and happiness.
PERSONAL COMMENTARY:
Are H&SS Course Offerings Drying Up?
by Debbie Siegel
When the list of courses offered in the 
College of Humanities and Social Sciences 
was first issued, 1 became very alarmed that 
there were few courses I wanted to take. 
For some reason, it seemed like there were 
less course offerings. My perception was 
quite distressing and in order to clear up 
my questions about objectives in H&SS, I 
thought it wise to check out the true state 
of the college and therefore, chose as my 
victims the humanity, English, and the 
social science of social relations. After 
comparing a list from fall semester 1972 to 
fall semester 1973, the number of courses 
in the English department and Social 
Relations department are approximately 
the same. My gripe had to change. 
Although it is not totally clear, if one 
knows the English Major requirements, 
they see most courses next fall are designed 
to fit these and there are few electives. I 
was dismayed that in Carnegie Mellon’s 
catalogue 33 courses are listed for social 
relations and only 9 are offered a semester, 
some being limited to juniors and seniors.
Mv r.rct «¡too was at the English depart-
Arthur Eastman. Dr. Eastman reflected 
upon his experience at Oberlin and finds 
that CMU’s English department offers as 
many courses as when he studied there. If 
you compare the English department pro­
portionally to others in Pennsylvania he 
finds we offer more English course studies 
than any other college in Pennsylvania. 
Eastman supports the University’s 
commitment for providing courses in the 
humanities.
He also pointed out a rather untypical 
quality in the distribution of English 
professors at CMU as two-thirds of the 
staff are working with upperclassmen. 
There is much less concentration on 
freshmen and graduate courses. Class sizes 
are limited to 40 students as maximum in 
most courses, while seminars are limited to 
15 people and writing courses 20 people. 
Eastman has explained, “We rely on the 
discussion method and interaction between 
students and professors. This is not true in 
a department such as psych.”
In regard to possibilities for new 
programs of the English department 
Eastman suggested some ideas that are 
bein" ¦'"»stigated. Dave Demarest is
MARGUUZS
PERSONAL COMMENTARY:We Need a Major 
in Communications
by Christine Infante
The communcations field is thriving. 
Government, business and education have 
been infiltrated. So complex in fact has the 
society become that we are kept informed, 
urged to buy, bought and brainwashed by 
some aspect of communications. Columbia 
University reports that “newsprint con­
sumption has almost doubled for twenty 
years .. . that newspaper advertising has 
quadrupled.” Just as the field itself is 
flourishing, opportunities within it are 
growing too. “Employment is up some 
40%.”
So if news is profitable, practical and 
prospering why haven’t we latched onto it? 
CMU boasts of one of the better economics 
departments and certainly one of the finest 
business schools yet completely ignores the 
basic supply and demand theory. Major 
communication schools such as Boston 
University, Syracuse and Northwestern 
report an increase in enrollment. Coupled 
with that increase is a higher rejection rate. 
More people are interested; more edu­
cational facilities for them are not 
available. Obviously if the university is 
concerned about money, the addition of 
such a department would certainly lure 
money. The recent TARTAN poll on the 
desirability of offering communications 
courses here, though still incomplete, 
shows 70% favoring the idea.
If we are operating like a business the 
challenge for CMU is to supply the pro­
spective consumer with his wants; as an 
institution of learning we should try to 
meet the needs of students here who would 
be interested in such a program. Naturally 
the Self-defined Major is one option but 
the field is so technical that certain courses 
are just by-passed. Furthermore, a Com­
munications Major would appeal to a wider 
range of people than does the present 
Technical Writing Option under the English 
Department. If handled properly one com­
prehensive program could qualify students 
for Publid Relations, Advertising, Journal­
ism, TV and Radio. Roland King of the PR 
office feels that “public relations anti
journalism are almost synonomous.” One 
major function of public relations is to 
produce news stories, releases, features and 
publications such as the Alumni News.
Of course the first response will be the 
same run-around that there simply isn’t
program need not be so great, for one thing 
faculty from various existing departments 
coijld be used. The addition of experts into 
the communications department may be a 
gradual one, and the budget increased 
according to the success of the program. 
There will be some expense, which will 
come in the manner of hiring a few well- 
qualified instructors who would be in­
terested in the field. Naturally, a whole 
new program and faculty would be de­
sirable, feasible and extremely costly. It 
need not start there.
H&SS departments could help by giving 
a preference to incoming faculty who have 
had either a minor or a strong affiliation 
with one of the phases of communications. 
For example: the English Department
might hire the next teacher in English with 
a minor in journalism; the History Depart­
ment might consider an instructor who is 
more interested in current history and 
events; Faculty in the technical writing 
option might also have some experience in 
the media or various firms.
Larry Wiseman and David Chen of 
WQED agree with Rege Ebner and Roland 
King (PR) that the communications major 
should have some “understanding of the 
world he’s living in.” Anyone entering any 
phase of the field needs a command of the 
language, a broad background and an 
ability to relate material or news 
accurately. Consequently this part of the 
program could adopt many courses already 
offered: Economics, History and Political 
Science (especially Power and Values and a 
course in current history), Urban Affairs 
(for anyone interested in government or 
community news), Psychology, English, 
Law (should include the legal limitations 
and privileges affecting the media), 
Graphics, Photography, Film and Speech 
(the latter could be more extensive and 
should include Voice, Diction, 
Argumentation.)
One concentration ought to be writing; 
the aim should be honest unbiased re­
porting (is there such a species?) and clear 
and concise writing. Again some programs 
on hand can be implemented though 
several should be initiated: Exposition I, 
Technical Writing, Critical Writing, Journal­
ism, Feature Writing, Editing & Layout 
(could be obtained through the TARTAN 
and the TECHNICAL).
The internship is probably the most

---------------------------------------------------

Page 4-THE TARTAN-Tuesday, April 24, 1973
Crafty Novick
by Debi Hildebrand
After much advertising and work on 
the parts of Nancy Novick, with Frank Lee 
as co-chairman. The Arts and Crafts 
Festival on Friday April 13 was a success. 
Between 12 and 5:30 Friday, displays were 
set up in Skibo Lobby, and outdoors near 
the Midway on Saturday in an informal 
manner. Although only two CMU students 
chose to participate about 40 artists, many 
of whom were from the Craftsman’s Guild 
displayed and sold a variety of items such 
as jewelry, water-color paintings, sketches, 
leather goods, soaps, metal crafts, ceramic
pots, quilts, and macramè decorations. The 
crowds were continuous and artists, who 
for the most part were pleased with sales, 
were able to retain all profits.
Students questioned agreed that the 
festival was a good addition to the carnival 
as the artwork was interesting, diverse and 
of good quality. The artists varied in age, 
background, and style, yet all were en­
thusiastic and pleased to answer questions 
about their methods and styles.
The festival, a success, was an 
activity that artists, students and people 
from surrounding neighborhoods alike 
seemed to enjoy.
Albers to Zog
Parents will leave no stone unturned to 
further their children’s healthy develop­
ment. An example of lively stone turning is 
in progress among parents of fifty 3 to 6 
year olds who are currently enrolled at the 
Oakland Children’s Center. Sixty percent 
of them are dependent on partial or full 
scholarship assistance from the school.
The concerned body of parents has 
turned up multiple solutions to the crucial 
financial dilemma of the center. The 
month-long activity is comprehensively 
titled “Fleas and Flowers for Children.”
On Saturday, April 28, between 11 and 
8, donated old and new flea market wares 
will be sold in the University and City 
Ministries at 5th and Bellefield. A wide 
variety of merchandise will be on sale. 
Parents from four continents and from all 
races and cultures will also cell homemade 
ethnic and domestic foods, including baked 
goods.
A week later, the “Flowers”, on sale at 
the same location, will include vegetable 
and herb plants, as well as flower seedlings. 
City dwellers who have no patch of ground 
to cultivate will find window box and 
house plants for their own enjoyment or 
for Mother’s Day or anyday giving. The 
seasonable growth market will be in 
operation on Friday and Saturday, May 11 
and 12. Hours are 11 to 6.
In combination with the growth center, 
original art and crafts donated by parents 
and friends will be on sale on the UACM 
property both May weekends.
The enthusiastic energy of the parents is 
also being harnessed to direct friends of the 
Oakland Children’s Center to the King- 
pitcher Gallery on nearby Craig Street, 
where 15% of the April 28 through May 12 
sales of posters and original prints will be 
donated to OCC to encourage creative 
growth. The graphics by nationally and 
internationally known contemporary 
artists range from Albers to Zog, by start at 
$10.00.
Other parent efforts include direct soli­
citation of funds and the planning of a 
benefit concert, to be announced in the 
near future.
The Oakland Children’s Center, which 
was founded by Fred Rogers in 1965 for 
three and four year olds, was expanded in 
1971 to include a kindergarten-primary 
group for five and six year olds. The 
nursery group is located in the UACM, 
while the older children are at the First 
Methodist Church at Aiken and Baum 
Boulevard, East Liberty.
In an effort to insure future peace, 
tolerance and security, the school seeks 
and finds yougsters from many cultures. 
They include children of foreign students, 
children of the suburbs, children of the 
poor and children of minority groups.
Briefly, the center seeks (1) to help the 
child form mutually satisfying relationships 
with other children and with adults, (2) to 
stimulate creativity, inquiry and active pro­
blem solving, (3) to provide guidance in 
cognitive experiences appropriate to his 
level £>f development and (4) to offer 
opportunities for the educational and 
psychological growth of the total family.
Note-For further information, please 
contact Anita Morganstern, 682-4477, or 
Judy McQuade, Director of the school, 
682-2751.
THE TARTAN GOOD GUY LIST
Through the year the TARTAN has dealt with many people but the 
following, as well as others who we neglected to list through the year, 
have merited being placed on the annual (this being the first anual) 
TARTAN Good Guy List.
Roland King-public relations department, 
biggest help we could hope for
President Cyert’s two secretaries 
always smiling and helpful
Bob McCurdy-Student Activities Director 
always there when you need him
The Old Lady Parking Attendant at Allegheny Mall 
for saying “have a nice day ” when you pay her.
To all those that didn't make it-better luck next year. A little smile will do 
you.
la fims
C- MU will hold commencement 
exercises at 10:00 AM on Monday, May 14 
on the Fine Arts Lawn. Dr. George J. 
Stigler, Charles L. Walgreen Distinguished 
Service Professor of America, will speak 
and-along with Robert F. Mehl Soda T. 
Stewart, Walter E. Washington, and
Edward R. Weidlein—will receive an 
honorary degree.
President Cyert will distribute 
diplomas to the members of the last 
graduating class of Margaret Morrison 
Carnegie College, and the deans of CIT, 
MIS, FA, and H&SS will each honor an 
outstanding student with a personal 
diploma presentation.
In case of rain, commencement will 
be held at Syria Mosque at 10:30.
FOOD SERVICE presents
PORKY CHEDWICK
Popular Pittsburgh D.J, 
will spin Golden Oldies of the 9509s at Skibo,
MICHAEL JOHN HARBADIN
will ditto at Morewood Cafeteria 
April 26th at our Steak Dinners.
OAKLAND HARDWARE & TOY CO.
CMU's Convenient Headquarters 
fot Hardware
** Desk Lamps ^ Key Service * Artist Brushes 
* Hot Plates Poster Paints ^ School Supplies 
3ouo- Forbes Avenue OAKLAND Phone 621*4)923
Elect ALBERT C. SHAPIRA - Judge
Qualifications 
Still 
Important ?
Like Ability 
and 
Hard Work ?
• Carnegie Mellon Graduate — 1937—B.S. in Me*. E.
• A solid record of accomplishment and dedication!
• Experienced Labor Arbitrator for Federal Mediation and Conciliation Service and American Arbitration Association.
• Professor of Law • Duquesne and University of Pittsburgh Law Schools, 1950-1971— teaching Contracts, Labor Law and Commercial Law.
• Trustee—Charitable Foundation.
• Trustee—Pension Funds.
• Scholar—first in his law school class.
• A Registered Professional Engineer—Commonwealth of Pennsylvania.
• A Registered Patent Attorney—U.S. Patent Office.
Democrats turn lever 13B — Republicans turn lerer 9C
RIIGS
for less
wlth your ID Card
1000 9x12 Rugs 
$15 S19 529 549
alto: 6x9'*, 12x12'., 12*15'», «te. 
Also: Ar*o Rugs (orientait, thogt, 
•te., otc.)
CHASE’S
5426 Walnut St., Shadyside
DAIIY: 10:00 a.nt. - t:00 p.m. 
SATURDAY: 10:00 a.m. - 5.00 p.*. 
•él 1 -1 OIS •

---------------------------------------------------

ANNOUNCEMENTS
THE TARTAN-Tuesday, April 24, 1973-Page 5
"Ferrous Oxide," an extension of and
outlet for the new Pittsburgh literary and 
artistic renaissance is now accepting sub­
missions for its premier issue some time 
this summer. Please submit any and all 
quality poetry, fiction, graphics, photo­
graphy, new journalism or community 
interest articles to "Ferrous Oxide" c/o 
The Print Shop, 5819 Ellsworth Ave., Pitts­
burgh 15232 or the TARTAN office, 
Room 50 Skibo. We are especially 
interested in innovative graphics and pro­
moting the growth of a Pittsburgh literary 
community. Submissions are open to 
everyone; famous writers and artists, 
faculty members and undiscovered truck 
drivers are welcome.
Citing the alarming increase of venereal
disease among gay (homosexual) persons in 
the Pittsburgh area, the Allegheny County 
Health Department has announced its co­
operation in a gay-oriented VD clinic to 
open on an experimental basis in Shady- 
side. The project is designed to attract 
persons who woirtd otherwise be too 
embarrassed to seek help. A cooperative 
venture of Persad Center, Inc. and the 
County Health Dept., the clinic will be 
open on Thursday, April 26 from.8 to 10 
p.m. at Persad Center facilities, 5100 
Centre Avenue, Room 226 in the 
Shadyside Center Complex. It will be 
staffed by gay volunteers and members of 
the health department staff. Testing will be 
available free of charge to both female and 
male Gays. All cases will be kept con­
fidential; persons seeking a test can 'give 
only the information they desire to. The 
success and expansion of this pilot program 
is dependent on the acceptance and turn­
out of the local gay community.
Gay Alternatives Pittsburgh (GAP)
sponsors a coffeehouse, serving a wide 
variety of refreshments, every Saturday 
evening. Open from 8 p.m. to 1 a.m. at the 
First Unitarian Church, Ellsworth and 
Morewood Avenues in Shadyside, the 
coffeehouse is one of GAP's attempts to 
provide a social alternative for district gay 
people and friends. In operation since 
January, the coffeehouse has grown in 
popularity and impromptu entertainment 
of several varieties is now offered on an 
irregular schedule. There is no admission 
charge. GAP also sponsors a community 
meeting, presenting educational programs 
of interest to Gays as well as a forum for 
interested persons to deal with the various 
aspects of GAP and the gay community, 
every Sunday at' 8 p.m. in the First 
Unitarian Church.
The Department of Modern Languages and
Literatures will administer proficiency tests 
in French, German,Spanish and Russian on 
Saturday, April 28, at 10:00 a.m., in the 
language laboratory (MM 310). Any 
student may take one of these test; there is 
no charge. The test takes 95 minutes. 
Students who demonstrate competence at 
the intermediate level will satisfy their 
college and/or departmental requirements 
in a foreign language. (Undergraduate 
only). Students may also take this test in 
order to establish their level of competence 
in the language gained through self-study, 
study abroad, etc., or to determine their 
level of achievement in order to continue 
further study in that language. These tests 
are primarily designed for students who 
have had two years or more of college 
language instruction, although this is not a 
prerequisite for taking the test. Students 
wishing to take one of these tests should 
sign up in the Modern Languages De­
partment office, BH 232-B, before Friday, 
April 27.
Michael Schneider, renowned organist from
Cologne, Germany, will play a recital at St. 
Paul's Cathedral, Oakland, Wednesday 
evening, April 25th, at 8:30. Assisting on 
the program will be his son, Christian 
Schneider, one of Europe's great oboists. 
The evening is the fourth and final in a 
series of special events marking the tenth 
anniversary of the world-famous Beckerath 
organ. The program is open and free to the 
public.
The new Computer Club has been
organized this spring. Its purposes are to 
encourage individual learning on the 
computers, inform and interest others 
about computers and assist members with 
special projects of service or research in 
computers. At the final meeting last Tues­
day, summer chairmen were elected to 
work on various projects such as furnishing 
the Computer Club Room with documents 
and teletype and preparing a presentation 
for freshmen orientation to create interest 
in computers before 15-100 achieves the 
opposite effect. Summer chairmen are: 
John Merkel, Self-Learning; Marc Kellner, 
education; Sam Mishlin and Bob 
Richardson, Service & Research.
Crafts, prints, paintings and sculpture by
the graduating seniors in the department of 
painting and sculpture are the last 
exhibition scheduled this year for the 
Carnegie-Mellon University Students' 
Gallery, 5200 Forbes Avenue. The ex­
hibition opens Monday, April 23, and will 
run through Saturday, May 5. The Gallery 
is open to the public Tuesday through 
Saturday from 10:00 a.m. to 6:00 p.m. 
(with the exception of opening night, when 
the Gallery will be open from 8:00 p.m. to 
10:00 p.m: only).
Swimming lessons will be given at the CMU
pool beginning May 21st. Courses to be 
offered are:
Beginner
Advanced Beginner 
Intermediate
$20 for 10 45-minute lessons 
All children must be able to stand com­
fortably in four feet of water.
Junior Lifesaving 
Senior Lifesaving 
. $30 for 20 2-hour lessons 
Junior Lifesavers must be at least 11 years 
old and senior lifesavers must be at least 15 
years old.
American Red Cross Certification will be 
given to all those who successfully 
complete a course.
For more information contact Laura Power 
(phone 682-8898) or the CMU athletic 
office (phone 621-2600, ext. 414 or 249). 
*
Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania, April 17, 1973:
A glass exhibition of national importance 
opens at the Museum of Art, Tuesday, 
April 17th and will continue through Sun­
day May 20th. The work of more than 
thirty leading American artists is repre­
sented in this show comprised of over 100 
examples of contemporary glass craftsman­
ship and organized by The Toledo Museum 
of Art and New York's Museum of Con­
temporary Crafts of the American Crafts 
Council.
The Carnegie-Mellon University YWCA
invites members of the campus community 
to an OPEN House Thursday April 26, 
1973 2:30-4:00 in the Multi-Purpose 
Room in Hunt Library. The featured 
speaker will be Molly Yard Garrett. Re­
freshments will be served and a number of 
people will be on hand to answer questions 
about Y programs.
Nine musical compositions by students at
CMU will be premiered at a concert on 
campus Wednesday evening, April 25. The 
concert is free and open to the public and 
will begin at 8:30 p.m. in the Exhibition 
Hall of the College of Fine Arts. All of the 
student composers are either under­
graduate or graduate students in music, and 
have studied under composition professors 
Leonardo Balada and Roland Leich. On the 
program are: "Music for Oboe, Clarinet 
and Bassoon" by John Krouse, a sopho­
more; "Chromokinetics" by Paul Dworak, 
a graduate student; "Rhapsody for Cello 
and Piano" by Mark Gasbarro, a sopho­
more; "Variations on a Theme by Mozart" 
by Charlie Harmon, a senior; "Chamber 
Music for Voice and String Quartet" by 
Alan Klein, a junior; "Allegro Moderato 
from Sonata in D Major" by Stephen 
Horelick, a freshman; "The O'Brien Songs" 
by Tom Cook, a graduate student; "Over­
ture for a Fancy Windup Music Box or 
Such" by Hankus Netsky, a freshman; and 
"Three Mixtures for Four Bassoons and 
Tape" by David Berlin, a graduate student. 
Dworak's work represents the first experi­
mental attempt to produce a musical work 
employing the SCORE and MUSIO com­
puter programs of CMU's PDP-10 
computer.
Any interested person wanting to become
next year's SPRING CARNIVAL chairman
please contact Tanya Allmond through
campus mail Skibo 103, no later than May
10.
CLASSIFIED AOS
For sale: $17.50 Picket metal sliderule for
$8.75, half the original price. Contact 
Steve Saunders, 687-3713 or the TARTAN 
office.
For Sale: 40 watt Hi-Fi amplifier. Tube
Type, works fine. $20; call after 6. 
621-3785.
FREE - 3 Beautiful black and white kittens
- 9 weeks Sun in Aquarius, Moon in 
Cancer. 361-8492.
For sale: King size water bed with heater
and small frame $40 or best offer. 
361-8492.
WORK WANTED-Freelance writer. I
specialize in Fiction but will do anything: 
laundry lists, classified ads, exposition, etc. 
Call Stephen 687-3713.
HELP WANTED $100.00 weekly possible
addressing mail for firms-Full and part time 
at home-Send stamped self-addressed 
envelope to HOME WORK OPPOR­
TUNITIES, Box 566 Ruidoso Downs. New 
Mexico 88346
Spring Bicycle complete overhaul • most
ten-speed models ready in 48 hours. 
$13.25. $17.25 with Clean and Polish. 
422-9999, 421-0854. Do it.
Male or Female to share co-op, co-ed house
in the Friendship . Private bedroom.. $83 
month. Jerri at 683-9533.
.Professional typing of thesis resumes,
lecture material and cassette recordings. 
Reasonable prices. Call 824-4667.
Female Roommate - Sublet Squirrel Hill
apt. May 1-Aug. 15. $87 Nancy, 521-1511 
ext. 351; 271-2974.
Large 3 bedroom, 5 person apt. A.C., wall-
to-wall carpeting. Rent reduced 
$ 100/month. 683-0637 or 561-6080.
Summer Sublet—Shadyside. Lge kitchen, 3
bdrms, WW carpet, Laundry, fully fur­
nished, 1 blk. from S. Negley and Walnut— 
Call 682-9252—ask for Fox or Duncan.
Desperately needed: (1) apartment for 2 to
sublet for summer (2) room or apt. in CMU 
area to rent for May/June for 1 (3) Apt. 
for 3, very very reasonably priced, for 
Sept.-May or Aug. 683-5477 or Tartan 
Office, Room 50.
CLASIFEDO
Dear Fred:
You may not have guts, but we love 
you anyway.
Your pushers
The Dee-Gees
Dear Bill, Ray & Tim:
We love you too.
Anna dearest,
c c oIf I were the editor,
DAnd you were the copy staff,
c GWould you justify my line?
DCould we still kiss and laugh?
c GIf I work my hands in Microdol,
DAnd I print till late at night,
c GWould you mix the fix for me?
DWould you be my safelight?
?*ll never forget the first time that / 
csaw you,
G ADStanding on the piano, so fair,
GSingin' in a show, wondrin’ if we‘d 
cgo together.
A pOh, please don't think that / love 
Gyou for your hair.
Em A
Look around and you’ll see me,
D BmI hope it will be me,
G EmWhen you’re tired and need some
c A place to stay.
Em AThe morning will know,
D BmYou don’t have to show,
Q ADjust mail me your loving today.
Bqi DMail your loving, Mail your loving
Bm , DMail your loving, C.O.D., I II pay.
DDDFFFGGG 
Bk Bk BV D-EW 9D9
C*1

---------------------------------------------------

Page 6—THE TARTAN-Tuesday, April 24, 1973'
English Energy Mardly Entropy
Arthur Eastman, hesd of the English De­
partment
by Shelley Burhans
[Editor’s Note: The TARTAN, in sur­
veying the campus for the more interesting 
and unique of the major faculty research 
and projects going on at C-MU, ran into 
English Department Head Arthur Eastman.
And most of the English Department, with 
no less though possibly more than 21 
literal levels of endeavor, the involvements 
ranging from medieval literature through 
contemporary ecology to computers. Dr. 
Eastman received his B.A. from Oberlin 
College, his M.A. and Ph.D. from Yale. He 
taught one year at the University of New . 
Hampshire and 21 years at the University 
of Michigan; this year is his fifth at CMU 
and as English Department Head. He 
currently teaches the Complete Works of 
Shakespeare course, though he says, “I’m 
really a generalist, Shakespeare and 18th 
Century being the areas where I’ve done 
the most work. ” Dr. Eastman is also a 
co-editor of the Norton Anthology, which 
has recently been updated and reprinted.
This is the first in a series of such 
‘investigative' interviews which the 
TARTAN plans to continue in the fall. /
Kinetic E. •
ForcingSelf to Synthesis
TARTAN: Dr. Eastman, could you give us 
an idea of some of the major faculty 
projects being done in this department? 
Eastman: Well, let me go sort of alpha­
betically with things that immediately 
bounce up at me.
Joe Baim has been doing a steady series 
of articles on D.H. Lawrence and is looking 
towards doing a monograph on Lawrence 
in the next couple of years.
Russ Brignano, whose book on Richard 
Wright was published by the University of 
Pittsburgh Press a few years back with a 
very complimentary introduction by Ralph 
Ellison, has just completed a major critical 
bibliography dealing with black literature 
which I expect to see published in the 
course of the next year.
Jan Cohn has a National Endowment 
for the Humanities Fellowship this entire 
year and is well into her manuscript on The 
House ... the meaning, the symbolism of 
the house in America, particularly as it 
reflects itself in American literature. But 
her study is not limited to literature at all; 
she’s studying architectural manuals, etc.
Gerry Costanzo is our young poet. 
Gerry has not only published he’s been 
part of the Poets in Schools program that’s 
being carried on in Pennsylvania, and has 
inaugurated the Three Rivers Poetry 
Journal, the second issue of which has just 
come out, which has just brought out two 
chapbooks, one of Dick O’Keefe’s poetry 
and one of Ann Hayes’ poetry. Other 
presses are bringing out a couple of 
chapbooks of Gerry’s poetry in the next 
year. He’s a busy man.
Beek Cottrell has just had published the 
last in a series of volumes, the Insight series 
put out by Noble & Noble Publishing 
House. This is a series of reading antho­
logies for high schools. Irwin Steinberg is 
the general editor and Bob Slack and Lois 
Fowler are co-editors with Beek on this.
It’s a handsome volume, I think a very 
nicely selected one.
Dave Demarest has been working on a 
series of essays across several years now, 
that are trying to bring 18th Century 
literature into 20th Century perspective.
He’s trying not to let the literature stay 
back there and get lost. He’s trying to 
bring present problems in the classroom to 
bear on that literature as a way of making
it “relevant” to the contemporary 
audience. What I’ve seen so far I like very 
much indeed.
Lois Fowler has been working increas­
ingly seriously in the area of women’s 
literature . She has a leave next spring and 
is going to be teaching a course this Fall 
with Ruth Beach, really trying to get at the 
contributions that psychoanalysis and the 
social sciences can bring to our under­
standing of women’s literature. Her leave 
will be in that same general area.
Bob Gangewere has just this year 
brought out a handsome text on The Ex­
ploited Eden, literature on the American 
environment. I think it is far and away the 
most interesting ecological volume that I’ve 
seen. Bob is also working with Jean Levy 
of the History department on an extended 
scholarly historical exploration of the case 
on which Theodore Dreiser based An 
American Tragedy. They have certain* 
materials that haven’t been used, trial 
transcriptions and so forth in that 
particular murder case. They’ve got in 
touch with one of the survivors of the 
particular court drama that was involved 
and are on something I think is very 
exciting.
Peter Gillespie, one of the newer 
members of the department, has been 
reworking a really very challenging dis­
sertation on King Lear that he did at the 
University of Oregon. He has a view of 
Edgar and Gloucester particularly which I 
think is radically different from the tra­
ditional view. I’m not sure I buy it, but it’s 
exciting and well thought out, and that’s 
where he is.
Concetta Greenfield is going off in two 
directions. She’s bringing into publication 
her doctoral dissertation which deals with 
early continental renaissance criticism. Her 
mentor for this is the head of the Folger 
Shakespeare Library, and I think the Uni­
versity of North Carolina is the press that’s 
accepted it. At the same time, Concetta has 
for years spent a good deal of energy on 
film and popular culture, and is producing 
articles in this area.
John Hart, has just finished a book 
length manuscript on Shakespeare’s 
romantic comedies, and has launched into 
a study of Dostoevsky. He’s given three 
lectures in the English Department Lecture 
Series on major novels of Dostoevsky, and 
has a leave next year in which he wishes to 
consolidate these and extend his claim on 
that extraordinary territory.
Ann Hayes has been publishing poetry 
steadily in prestigious journals. She’s had a 
series of poems this last year in the Virginia 
Quarterly Review and The Southern 
Review.
Peggy Knapp is on leave right now. Her
Photo by Henry Collins
book on the Wicliffe sermons is in press, 
and she’s been doing a series of further 
investigations about his manuscripts. 
There’s a major question of attribution; are 
these Wicliffe’s manuscripts or are they 
not? They’re not signed in the corner or 
anything like that. Peggy is going to bring 
to bear on this body of sermons computer 
techniques; she had a fellowship at the 
Kansas Computing Center and thinks she 
can move closer to the answer than anyone 
has thus far. I’m fairly hopeful about that.
Bill McTaggart is a Shelley man and has 
been working steadily with Neville Rogers 
on a definitive edition of Shelley for the 
University of Oxford Press. Bill has a series 
O’f new projects involving Shelley manu­
scripts lying ahead of him for the next year 
or two.
Tom Miles has more projects in mind 
and in progress than I can really hold in my 
memory. One that interests me very much, 
though I’m not sure that there’s any 
chance of getting publishing support, is 
work on a new edition of Beowoulf to be 
used in schools. The present edition that’s 
been used now for more than thirty years 
is not up to date in respect to scholarship 
and revised theories about epic form, 
medieval traditions and so on. The edition 
is on the college and graduate level. Tom 
has also done an article with Jan Cohn on 
the word and the concept of sublimity, 
which is now making the rounds to various 
publications. “Sublime” tends to mean 
“up” for us, but it also means “below the 
threshhold”. Historically, this is a kind of 
two-faced concept, and I think a 
fascinating one to explore.
Tom Perry has been revising an article 
on Spencer’s “Faerie Queene” which seems 
to me very tight and nice at the moment.
Martin Russ has been reviewing right 
along for the Library Journal and has a 
Falk Grant this summer to proceed on his 
sixth book, a somewhat autobiographical 
work in fiction, the outline of which I’ve 
seen and which I look forward to reading.
Bob Slack has been trying to set up, I 
think successfully, the first of a series of 
ventures that will be focused on how to 
teach what we now call Developmental 
Reading. At both the high school level in 
the latter years and at community colleges 
the standard problem is that students can’t 
read well. They don’t seem to repond to 
encouragement or to red ink down mar­
gins. There’s no accepted body of theory 
right now that seems to talk to this, and 
Bob is setting up, with Lois Fowler, a 
seminar on campus this summer to bring 
together people from local community 
colleges, reading experts, and the Uni­
versity of Pittsburgh to see if by a careful 
review of the literature and by brain­
storming, each person out of his own 
experience, they can’t begin to get 
somewhere with this. If we get somewhere, 
it will move into our graduate operation 
much more profoundly than anything like 
that that exists now, and also into our 
Teaching Certification program.
This is promising, and on its way.
Fred Sochatoff is bringing to com­
pletion a major handling of the Petronius 
documents, the Renaissance. He is, at the 
same time, serving as a “cultural am­
bassador” to Pittsburgh and its environs. 
He lectures every summer at Chautaugua, 
and publishes an article or two on drama.
Dean Steinberg is incredibly prolific; his 
book on Joyce has just come out from the 
University of Pittsburgh Press. There’s a 
steady flow of articles from his typewriter 
on pedagogical subjects.
Dave Walton is bringing to completion a 
novel he’s been working on for over a year, 
and as of the other day, things were going 
well. He saw the end in sight and was 
feeling very chipper about the whole 
thing.
And I guess I ought to include Austin 
Wright, Professor Emeritus, because Austin 
told me today that he’s handed in a type­
script, to the P.R. people here, on the 10 
year history of Carnegie Tech, as it then 
\Vas, under Jake Warner’s reign.
People are working.
TARTAN: Where do you think the English 
Department is moving in terms of teaching, 
scholarship and “relevance”?
Eastman: Let me suppose that you’re 
moving on the “publish or perish” pattern, 
scholarship on the one side, teaching on 
the other and maybe service in various 
ways to the academic and the local and 
larger communities ...
TARTAN: Is publishing still the demand 
it’s traditionally been?
Eastman: Publishing is still very much the 
demand at the university level, because 
publishing is an index of a man’s intel­
lectual vitality, accomplishment and 
power. University committees invariably 
distrust, and with some sound reasons for 
this, the departments within the various 
colleges that make recommendations. They 
want outside evidence of strength. Publi­
cation is such an outside evidence. Letters 
from people of prominence and success in 
the field are another kind of indication. 
This university committee and just about 
every other one I’ve run into operates very 
much that way.
I think my own feeling is that you want 
a faculty with live minds, and not minds 
that are complacent on the accomplish­
ments they’ve already made. And you 
cannot write an article—I’m skipping 
cynical articles and things thrown off by a 
milling process—You cannot write an 
article, tackle a book, bring to completion 
a scholarly or critical or creative endeavor 
without, in fact, growing in the process.
Let me give you my own favorite il­
lustration because it came to me years ago. 
The professor in the classroom can have a 
perfectly dandy time with Hamlet, and he 
opens up for the class all sorts of am­
biguities; he sees new possibilities. He 
walks out of the classroom and his mind is 
simply dancing with the glory of discovery. 
But unless the instructor is willing to 
follow down the implications of this 
position and that position and how line 1 
in this scene relates to a line in 
another, unties s he will force himself to 
synthesis, he never goes much beyond that 
effervescent feelingof ‘hey this is a live play 
and we’re having a live class.’
When he has forced himself to the

---------------------------------------------------

THE TARTAN—Tuesday, April* 24, 1973—Page 7
“What we want from you students...”
synthesis, when he’s made the choices, he 
has to make or recognizes the imponder­
ables that he cannot ultimately cope with, 
or the questions that he cannot ultimately 
resolve, he’s moved critically a long way 
off from that initial position. That’s 
growth. That’s what I want to see.
Now, whether it gets published or not, 
whether we go through the form of getting 
it in print with some national publishing 
house or with a journal is really secondary 
to that primary goal of disciplined exper­
ience of exploration, arriving at judgement, 
putting it into expression and saying ‘this is 
the best I can do; this is the way 1 see it.’ 
TARTAN: It’s a kind of continued 
studentship, then . ..
Eastman: Sure it is. And what it seems to 
me we have is a department which is very 
much alive, very healthy. I see no dead 
wood in this department. I see a wide range 
of styles, from exciting-brilliant on the one 
hand to kind of phlegmatic-pedestrian on 
the other, but that’s perfectly healthy. 
They’re all alive, it seems to me; they’re all 
doing things. And they’re doing things that 
keep their minds expanding and growing, 
which is what you want.
It’s what we want from you students, 
you know; this isn’t something for faculty. 
This is the human potentiality and 
progressively realizing what the individual 
can be.
II Potential E. .'
CIT Student: “A Slide Rule with a Couple 
of Legs on It?”
TARTAN: Dr. Eastman, what are your 
opinions concerning humanities require­
ments for CIT, MIS ... the tech­
nologically” oriented students. This seems 
to be an issue that’s cropping up with all 
those of tenure and courses, and so forth. 
Dissent is beginning to be expressed, again, 
about that requirement.
Eastman: I don’t know that I have 
anything new to say. The image of some­
Photo by Henry Collins
one in CIT really being a slide rule with a 
couple of legs on it is totally unfair, it’s a 
caricature but it points to something to be 
afraid of. This is that, by making that 
school narrowly vocational, we do not pay 
enough attention to the human beings who 
are going to be the engineers, the scientists 
and so on.
The history of Tech, at least since I’ve 
known it, has been one of full recognition 
of that fact, so that they have required for 
years that their students do take some 
courses outside of the immediate 
professional or vocational pathway. What I, 
at least, have found in my experience here 
is that the Tech students are highly 
selected; they’re a good bunch, and then a 
very curious thing-that a fairly large 
number of them have been so traumatized 
by their high school training in literature 
that they’re worse off then if they’d never 
had it at all.
What I hope we can do, and what I 
know we’re making some progress toward 
in The Literary Imagination course-which 
is the one that is required of them-what 1 
hope we can do is help them recover their 
own awareness of their imagination . . . 
their powers to use imagination in 
language, in literature, and hence begin to 
grow. Some of the times we get there, 
some of the times we don’t.
TARTAN: Is there any differentiation 
made in laying out programs and planning 
courses as to, say, English majors and 
engineering majors?
Eastman: Yes there is some. Several things 
operate. One, there are courses that are for 
majors only, unless there turn out to be 
openings-and those are, for instance, the 
(required) author seminars. Courses in 
Creative Writing do enroll some engineers, 
but I think if push comes to shove, if 
enrollments get too stiff, we’ll probably 
say than, primarily, they are for our own 
majors.
We schedule certain courses that have
EXAM SNACKS...
April 30, May 1, 2, and 3
KILTIE CAFE 
and MOREWOOD CAFETERIA
For all those on Food Contract
historically proved popular at 11:30 and 
12:30 slots because we know that CIT and 
MIS students have some flexibility in 
electing them.
TARTAN: There’s nothing, then, laid out 
in the actual structure of a specific course 
accounting for, maybe, a handicap in the 
area.
Eastman: No, the dean is very interested in 
our having perhaps a clearer differentiation 
between freshman, sophomore, junior and 
senior courses than we now have. 1 think 
there’s a lot to be said for that, and 1 think 
the undergraduate committee in this 
department is going to be working very 
closely with that question next fall. 
TARTAN: I just remember taking a
Modern Novel course where there were a 
number of people from really diverse 
fields ...
Eastman: Well, it’s diverse fields, diverse 
experience, too. The green freshman who 
doesn’t have a strong literary background; 
let’s say, the senior from MIS who really 
loves science fiction and has been reading it 
for years; there are diverse backgrounds of 
all different kinds, here, and it’s tough on 
the instructor. It’s also tough on some of 
the students in the class who have to mark 
time while other students are being 
‘brought up’, and that’s part of why the 
dean is concerned.
I don’t know that I can go beyond that, 
though. We don’t have exclusion principles 
and • we don’t have quota principles 
operating.
TARTAN: How has this department been 
affected by the budget cut, and could you 
say anything about possible ramifications 
in H&SS?
Eastman: There has been no budget cut in 
this department, nor for History or Modern 
Languages. What we’ve been living with are 
increases which are significantly less than 
the cost of living, so that real income has 
gone down across a number of years. But 
in dollar terms, there has been no cut; 
there’s been an increase every year since 
I’ve been here-8 and 9% in the jolly good 
years and something like 2'A. or 3% in the 
bad years.
TARTAN: There has been some question 
lately about the fact that elective courses 
have been greatly reduced, aside from, say, 
the Psych department, which has remained 
pretty much the same.
Eastman: It simply isn’t so. At least not in 
this department. You can trot out the 
number-we give approximately 55 
separate course offerings at the under­
graduate level every year. Give or take one 
or two, that’s been the pattern since my 
second year here, at least, and it’s far more 
than any University of this size (my guess 
is) in the country; it’s more than major 
liberal arts colleges like Oberlin.
The offerings are extraordinarily 
generous. We’re able to do that because we 
are part of a university, because we do 
need staff who are teaching The Literary 
Imagination and other courses that are 
reaching out to the total university 
community. The students, I think, have a 
remarkable opportunity for choice, here. 
TARTAN: You’ve mentioned that you’re 
going to be on leave, next year, and that 
you’re going to England. Could you say a 
little bit about what you’re going to be 
doing?
Eastman: Oh, yes-l’m going to be an 
historian, and I’m honored to be called an
historian, now.
Several years ago, doing preparatory 
work for a graduate course here in literary 
research, I ran across a five (small) volume 
manuscript autobiography by a man named 
John Wrenshall. He was a merchant who 
was born in 1761, left England, not liking 
the political climate there, in 1794 and 
came to Philadelphia with another man to 
set up a store. After they’d been there two 
years it seemed to them that Pittsburgh 
would be a fine place to have another 
store. Wrenshall came to Pittsburgh in 
1796 and was here for the next 21 years 
with his store.
At the same time, having become a 
Methodist lay minister in England, he was 
concerned with there being Methodist 
services here, and, as the technical language 
of the church goes, he planted Methodists 
in Pittsburgh. So, he had his mercantile 
venture going; he had his clerical adventure 
going. He also had a number of children 
and thought a great deal about how to rear 
children and about the warmth and 
closeness of his family, so that was his 
third area of interest.
He writes a very interesting auto­
biography that’s filled with small illiter­
acies, misspellings, and incredible punctu­
ation, occasionally misusing language. But 
he had an eye; he had a sense for the 
anecdotal ...
In no single respect is he a great or very 
big man; what I find is that he’s interesting 
enough in half a dozen different ways so 
that I really wanted to go ahead and do a 
straight historical biographical job on the 
autobiography and bring out a definitive 
edition of it.
I want to find out if I can learn more 
than I now know about the places he went, 
the people to whom he talked, some of the 
incidents that he describes, and so forth. I 
think four or five months in England will 
take care of all that I can hope to find, and 
then I need to do a good deal more work 
than I’ve done about the Philadelphia 
years; 1 need to know more than 1 now 
know about the causes of emigration in 
that period right after Revolutionary 
War . ..
TARTAN: Dr. Eastman, you have one of 
the high evaluations on the Faculty/Course 
Evaluation . .. What’s your secret?
Eastman: That’s because I till out the 
forms myself.
TARTAN: That’s a lie.
Eastman: I don’t think I have a secret. I 
like my material, 1 like my students, and I 
work at it. I don’t feel competitive in the 
classroom and 1 don’t think the students 
feel competitive with me .. . and you 
know, the groundwork of it all is that 
we’re working with tremendous material. 
You have to be really gifted in rottenness 
to ruin a Shakespeare course, although I’m 
sure it can be done.
Rescuing the world from its problems is 
easier said than done, but a small group of 
dedicated men believe it’s possible. What’s 
more they formed a club to help do it. It’s 
called the Club of Rome and its 75 
members are eminent scientists, industria­
lists, economists and educators from 25 
different nations. The April “Science 
Digest” says their chief goal is to evaluate 
and solve world problems such as over­
population, pollution and the energy crisis, 
independent of national interests.
REGAL NOTES
ripl24,1ip 9/134V ioul/4 1ip 9olm4
FASTER WITH OUR NOTES
Wt’r# no>w and wo'ro tk« bigost' Thousands of 
?op. ct roviowod, for quicker ufid#fltsndiny, Our 
Sub|Octt mcludo not only English, but Anthro­
pology, Art, Block Studios, Ecology, Eco­
nomics, Education, History, Law, Music, 
Philosophy, Political Scionca, Psychology, 
Religion, Scionco, Sociology and Urban Prob­
lems. Sand S2 for your catalog of topics avail- 
ablo.
REGAL NOTES 
3160 “0“ Stfaat, N.W. 
Washington, 0. C. 20007 
Talapfcona: 202-333-0201

---------------------------------------------------

-Page 8—THE TARTAN-Tuesday, April 24, 1973
DU Looks to its Future
continued from page 1into a fraternity, you’ll see just an ordinary
bujifh of people. There are no “Ozzie and
Harriet” type people there ... In the past
few years the D.U. chapter at Berkeley has
almost doubled in membership, and this
seems to be coming to Carnegie-Mellon.”
He said that the kind of person
interested in joining D.U. is, “the kind of
guy who’s interested in making some really
close friends to live with and some
common goals with as well as maintaining
his own individuality, which has been a
problem here in the past,. . . the only thing
we had to offer in the past was that D.U.
was a group of close-knit individuals who
strove to create and maintain each in­
dividual’s individuality. But we had so 
much stress on individuality, that we just 
forgot about the common goals of the 
fraternity.”
Asked about problems with drugs, 
Goldman said, “Drugs are something that 
have really destroyed this place in the last 
eight years. People in this place have 
always done what they want to do, and if 
it’s contrary to the goals of the fraternity, 
they just kick it and walk out.” Two years 
ago they pledged freshmen. This year there 
are only five left, and next year there will 
be one . . . This is something we’ve got toVanishing Courses?
continued from page 3 
working with public relations in exploring 
possibilities for internships. In cooperation 
with CFA, programs for drama and music 
reviewing are developing. In response to 
my concern for a journalism program, 
Eastman does not feel that a formal 
department of journalism will develop in 
the near future. Through Exposition I and 
II, the student can gain a knowledge of 
proper writing methods.
The English department is not suffering 
from cuts in the budget which gives 
Eastman a degree of optimism. However, 
raises in salaries are less than the cost of 
living. Eastman attributes that if a few less 
sections are offered, this is due to four 
faculty members taking leaves of absence. 
Lois Fowler and John Hart will be gone for 
the spring semester. Pete Jones and 
Eastman will be gone for the whole year.
As a person with a math phoebia, I was 
curious why the Social Relations depart­
ment is quantitative. Dr. Gordon Lewis, 
headof that deaprtment enlightened me on 
how the department came to be what it is. 
Before H&SS was formed, there was 
Business and Research Management offered 
in Margaret Morrison that took a non- 
quantitative approach. When H&SS was 
formed, the faculty of MM left and SUPA 
was being started. One of SUPA’s responsi­
bilities came to be providing faculty also 
for social relations. The decision to be 
quantitative was formed in conjunction 
with student opinion.
In regard to numerous courses listed in 
the catalogue, Dr. Lewis admits that many 
courses have been cut for reasons of parti­
cular faculty leaving who taught certain 
courses and the catalogue’s extension over 
a two year period.
As remedies for this he suggests cutting 
those listings which no longer apply, 
offering courses on a more regular basis, 
and telling the last date w^en courses were 
offered.
There are 23 potential faculty members 
in Social Relations and SUPA. This figure 
includes 3 deans and an assistant dean who 
haven’t taught courses. One problem is that 
sometimes a professor in SUPA relates 
better to math than the social science 
aspect and would prefer teaching in the 
Math department.
Dr. Lewis has different advice regarding 
majors in social relations and students just 
wanting to try one of their courses. If a 
student is majoring in social relations, he 
should take a quantitative course. Lewis 
defines the goals of the social relations 
major. “One, to provide students with 
skills they can use when they graduate. 
Two, to provide curriculum for the student 
to go on to graduate school?Recently there 
have been two committees formed, one 
discussing possible employment and what 
majors can do when they graduate, another 
evaluating present curriculum and planning 
new curriculum. Presently there isn’t the 
explicit 3-2 program as in GSIA where an
undergrad takes 3 years in AMS and can 
obtain a masters degree after matriculating
2 years in GSIA. SUPA however is willing 
to entertain applications from undergrad 
juniors at CMU and other colleges.
Service courses are those which don’t 
require too much math and are re­
commended for the non-major. One also 
has the option of cross registering at 
Chatham or Pitt in sociology or anthro­
pology. Pitt has one of the best anthro­
pology departments in the country. Dr. 
Lewis hopes more courses of ftiis kind will 
be developed.
After two very informative conver­
sations with Dr. Eastman and Dr. Lewis, 
my state of mind improved about the 
opportunities provided in H&SS. If the 
optimism of department heads can be 
maintained and reinforced, next year 
should offer a great opportunity for 
intense scholastic activity in the humanities 
and social sciences.
work with. (People leaving) has been a 
problem. We’ve got to keep people here 
once they decide to stay; meet their needs.
Goldman stated that the fraternity is 
going to do this “by ridding ourselves of 
our drug reputation and our members that 
use drugs ... I don’t particularly like the 
stereotype fraternities—a bunch of boozers, 
a bunch of jocks, a bunch of drug users. 
Everybody’s got their individuality, but in 
the real world you’ve got to compromise 
with that society expects of you. In the 
fraternity you’ve got to maintain your 
individuality, but you’ve got to com­
promise.”
Goldman went on to speak of a plan 
with housing whereby if they (D.U.) fill 10 
beds, housing will fill 20, hopefully with 
freshmen rather than sophomores and 
juniors, and perhaps find some pei^pec'tive 
members, people they like rather than just 
“bodies”. Goldman spoke of having closed 
mixers, more private “elaborate” social 
events, such as wine and cheese parties and 
theatre nights. He is vitally concerned with 
finding a formula to get D.U. “back on its 
feet”, and keep it there.
As for the .other members, some are 
staying, some were not; a few were un­
decided. Steve Shearer, an “undecided” 
says, “Two things have to happen. The 
fraternity has to give something to the 
people in it, ongoing, everyday things, not 
just once in a while mixers, etc. It’s 
apparently not enough. The fraternity has 
to be more than just a place to live ...”
Among those who most strongly doubt 
D.U.’s chances for success is Harry Malone, 
D.U.’s former president. He spoke of the 
work done last semester by everyone to try 
and get the frat back on its feet. He talked 
about the pain he got from seeing some­
thing he cared about just diffuse into 
nothing, about the enemies he had made 
from his pessimism and about revitalizing 
the fraternity. He “cared strongly that 
D.U. not fail, and at first was as optimistic 
as anyone.” Now, however, he has changed 
his mind completely, saying he takes the 
“radical” point of view. He does not think 
the present efforts will succeed.
The brothers of D.U. are an unusual 
group. There is room to think and act 
independently there, and whether some of 
this freedom will have to be forgone in the 
best interests of the community, whether it 
can succeed, is something only time will 
tell.
Major in Communications
continued from page 3important part of the program and could
function so that those interested in specitic
aspects say PR, Advertising or Television
could work at offices, firms or studios on
that level. Mr.' Ebner pointed to areas
within the university where students could
get first hand experience, for example the
PR and Publications Offices. Both Mr.
Ebner *and Mr. King feel that a “fairly
practical program could be developed
here.”
Maybe credit can be given to related 
activities (TARTAN, Carnegie Technical,
WRCT, Visual Aids) until a more inclusive 
program arose.
The major proposed here is workable. A 
technical university, which we are pri­
marily, cannot continue to ignore the 
importance of communications, no matter 
how commercial one thinks it is. In re­
sponse to this fear Rege Ebner noted that 
“the program would not lessen the quality 
of education, it’s just stepping in another 
direction.” Oh well, such are idle dreams 
but isn’t it about time CMU steps out?
With TWAit pays to be young.
Armed with just a pack on your back 
and a TWA Youth Passport* in your hand, 
you can see a lot more of the U.S. for a lot 
less with TWA.
Here are some ways we help.
Ovemite Pass *
TWAs terrific new money 
saver. It gets you guaranteed 
student dormitory accommoda­
tions (at the least) without 
advance reservations in 40 cities 
in the U.S.A., Canada and Mexico.
For only $5.25 a night!
U.S.A. Bonus Coupon Books.
Take your TWA Youth Passport and 
boarding pass to any TWA Ticket Office in 
Denver, Los Angeles, or San Francisco.
You’ll get a book of bonus coupons good for 
507f off things and absolutely free things 
like a two-for-one dinner at Crouchons 
^ Restaurant in San Francisco, free surfboard 
WithTAp rental in Los Angeles, and lots, lots more.
Like we said, with TWA it pays to be young.
For all the details write: TWA — IT PAYS 
TO BE YOUNG, Box 25, Grand Central 
Station, New York, N.Y. 10017.
V>uth Passport and ( Hemiu* Pass art* seit/xdu*ivi*iv b\ T\VA.

---------------------------------------------------

Vet’s VESO
THE TARTAN-Tuesday, April .24, 1973-Page 9
Problems Anyone?
by Dave Bush
In as much as this is my last column for 
the semester, 1 present here a problem 
which I not only have not completely 
figured out yet, but don’t even know how 
to state precisely! Here goes:
Fairy chess is somewhat loosely defined 
as any version of chess where one or more 
of the parameters of the game have been 
changed. For example, there might be 
different pieces involved, or the object of 
the game might be different, etc. Now, 
suppose the following properties of the 
game stay the same: l)the game is still 
played by a finite number of players, and 
each player still has a finite number of 
moves per turn; 2)the board (there is a 
board!) contains a finite number of cells on 
which pieces can be placed; 3)throughout 
the game there are always a finite number 
of pieces involved in play; 4)If the exact 
same position (‘position’ is difficult to 
define precisely) occurs 3 times during the
game, the game is over. Define a set of 
rules which allow for an infinite game - 
that is, a game with an infinite number of 
moves! (1 have only found one example of 
such a set of rules so far.)
ANSWER TO LAST WEEK’S PROBLEM: 
The rule for determining the nth term of 
the sequence is as follows: Let the ones 
digit represent the highest power of 2 
which evenly divides n; the tens digit re­
present the highest power of 3 which 
divides n; the hundreds digit represents the 
power of 5; and so on letting the 1011 digit 
represent the highest power of the (n+l)st 
prime which divides n. If n is a two-digit 
number, we have 10b+a=6ab, where &b are 
both digits, and the only solution is n=12. 
For 3 digit numbers and higher, the 
e q ii a t< i o n a + lOb +100 c
..................=(2a).(3b).(5c) . . . where
a,b,c,... are digits, is unsoivable. There­
fore 12 is the only solution.
CFA's Ballay Optimistic
by Kathy Knoblach
“He who did well in war just earns the 
right
To begin doing well in peace.”
Robert Browning, Lucia; Act 11,1. 354
May 5th completes the first term of 
classes set up to offer veterans necessary 
remedial help to .meet college or 
technical school (entrance) requirements. 
The classes are a service of the Western 
Pennsylvania Veterans Educational Service 
Center, which was opened at CMU this 
n year. The VESC is open to help veterans in 
the counties of Allegheny, Armstrong, 
Fayette, Greene, Washington and West­
moreland. Some 28 veterans are enrolled in 
the present class, which has been operating 
in Science Hall 5310, 4:30-10 p.m., five 
days a week for sixteen weeks.
The course is primarily open to veterans 
interested in higher education whether 
they have a high school diploma or not; in 
the words of one veteran, “It’s a chance to 
better yourself, whether you go on to 
school or not.”
English, mathematics, social studies, 
science and communicative skills such as 
notetaking, writing, and vocabulary are 
taught. There are three instructors who 
alternate the evenings, in which one subject 
is covered.
Individualized instruction is available, as 
well as counseling. “Our only limitation is 
time; if there’s something you want to 
discuss with anyone, the time is 
scheduled,” said one veteran. Counselors 
provide applications and information abojit 
schools and scholarships. Aptitude and 
interest tests are available also.
Outings directed by instructors are con­
sidered by the veterans to be valuable in 
that, “we become familiar with the 
libraries around the city.” A recent trip to 
the Playhouse was made to see “You Can’t 
Take It With You”.
Expressed by the veterans in their 
comments was the desire for more 
teachers, if merely to gain exposure to 
different styles of teaching.
The veterans in this class felt somewhat 
hampered by their lack of “student 
status”, in that they do not have student
I.D.s necessary for full use of library and 
eating facilities on this campus. Social 
activities are limited, they claim; “You 
even have to have a student I.D. to play
Slipsticks
continued from page 1 informal discussion of the other 14 items 
examined. Also scheduled is a showing of a 
series of brief films, produced by Carnegie- 
Mellon and WIIC-TV news, and dealing 
with safety aspects of various household 
items.
Professor for the course is Dr. R. David 
Pittle, assistant professor of electrical 
engineering and public affairs at CMU. Dr. 
Pittle, who has taken an active role in the 
development of consumer education, last 
year was awarded a $343,000 grant by the 
National Science Foundation for the de­
velopment of a high school level product 
safety curriculum. He also serves as 
president of the Alliance for Consumer 
Protection, an all-volunteer consumer 
organization in Pittsburgh, and has been 
named as a consumer advisor to the 
Pennsylvania Insurance Department and 
the National Association of Home Builders. 
He is a member of the Consumer Product 
Safety Committee of both the American 
National Standards Institute and the 
American Society for Testing and 
Materials.
ping pong”. Many would like the 
opportunity to obtain library cards.
All of the veterans receive GI Benefits, 
but in order to take these classes many 
must give up jobs and valuable earning 
time. With families and schooling, veterans 
can benefit from payments given by the 
Regional Office of the Veterans Admini­
stration in Pittsburgh, funded by the 
Federal Government. Some of the veterans 
haven’t received any payments. “They urge 
us to take full advantage of this program, 
but it’s difficult to realize your hopes of 
higher education when you need money to 
exist.” This class of veterans compiled a 
document to present to Congressman 
Heinz, requesting action. Among the points 
listed in the document was the request for 
improvement of the “poor” service given 
to the veterans at the Regional Office: the 
long waits and delayed checks, resulting in 
the loss of motivation.
The veterans regard the program very 
favorably, as a chance to “renew what was 
forgotten and learn more.” “It wakes you 
up as to what to expect,” said one, and 
others, “It’s valuable for the academic 
awakening and renewed confidence in 
ourseives as students.”
Many feel that a basic advantage of this 
program is the way, “we can set our own 
pace, there is no pressure” to compete with 
students just out of high school who are 
used to the academic environment.
A complaint was issued, however, about 
the lack of female participants in the 
program. In other words, “WE NEED 
SOME WACS!”
continued from page 1 
grade”, and “has been for some time”, 
Ballay stated, “All I can say is that enroll­
ment in 20 years has doubled. In areas such 
as drama, it would seem to be a question of 
risking the public image in that they have 
had a shift of emphasis from producing 
plays and emphasizing quality, to ex- 
perimentalization. As for Architecture and 
Music, as Associate Dean I can’t really say;
I have to deal with very specific kinds of 
problems.
“I do think there’s a real problem in 
trying to keep track of students and stu­
dent input ... I don’t see Committees as 
the answer; they just fill time. I think that 
it’s the Administration’s job to run the 
school, and that it’s the student’s job to go 
to school. Somewhere between the two, 
communications have to be achieved.”
IT'S YOURS Sophomores9
•Juniors.
andSeniors
A MONTH
and a free and uninterrupted education 
and grad school prior to military service 
and guaranteed annual salary off *9,067.00
It’s Your Life - It’s Your Education
THINK ABOUT IT...WE DID
THE CADETS
Carnegie-Mellon University
621-2600, Ext. 281/282 
Room 203, Gymnasium
Army ROTCin#//im4» \oumrv II> Art*

---------------------------------------------------

Page 10-THE TARTAN-Tuesday, April 24, 1973
FERROUS OXIDE
an independent extension of an outlet for
The New Pittsburgh Literary 
And Artistic Renaissance
is now accepting submissions for its premier issue 
some time this summer.
Please submit any and all quality poetry, fiction, graphics photography, 
new journalism and community interest articles to .. .
FERROUS OXIDE
c/o THE PRINT SHOP, 5819 Ellsworth Ave., Pittsburgh 15232
-OR -
THE TARTAN OFFICE - Room 50, Skibo
We are especially interested in innovative graphics and 
promoting the growth of a Pittsburgh literary community!
SUBMISSIONS ARE OPEN TO EVERYONE, contributions by famous 
writers and artists, faculty members, undiscovered truck drivers, as 
well as students, are welcome.
T ranscendentai 
Meditation
As Taught 
by
MAHARI5HI 
MASHESH 
YOGI
Spontaneously develops Full mental Potential 
Provides deep rest for increased energy
INTRODUCTORY LECTURE
Rick Meisenbach 
Eileen Felmet
WED., APRIL 25 
8:00 P.M.
Scaife Hall - Auditorium
SPONSORED-BY
STUDENTS
INTERNATIONAL
MEDITATION
SOCIETY
NON-PROFIT
EDUCATIONAL
ORGANIZATION
363-1592
CITY PLANNERS WANTED
38 CITY PLANNERS TO SERVE AS
PEACE CORPS VOLUNTEERS
In Brazil, Iran, Morocco, Honduras, Afghanistan
Will work with Municipal governments to introduce improved 
methods of planning, budgeting and land use.
Visit the Placement Office for Information
OR CALL COLLECT
DEBBIE KOOPERMAN (215) 597-0744 
THE PEACE CORPS
LIBERAL ART GRADS WANTED
-I F-
You've Heard About VISTA and PEACE CORPS
You’ve thought about joining up after college; and you’re finishing 
up a degree in French, Spanish, English or the Social Sciences.
NOW IS THE TIME TO ACTI • GO TO THE PLACEMENT OFFICE!
Take an application and fill it out and get set for an exciting 1 or
2 years of experience that you can find in no other organization.
JOIN VISTA OR PEACE CORPS 
Visit the Placement Office for Information
OR CALL COLLECT 
DEBBIE KOOPERMAN-(215) 597-0744
NOTICE TO READERS: This is the last issue of 
the TARTAN until next September. No An­
nouncements or Advertisements will be accepted 
for any regular issue of the TARTAN until Sept­
ember 1, 1973. The next regular issue will be 
distributed on Tuesday, September 11. A limited 
amount of the Freshman Orientation Special issue 
will be printed for distribution to all incoming 
freshman on the day they arrive.
MOTORCYCLE
INSURANCE
3 9k
West Penn Motor Club 
Insurance Agency
202 Penn Circle West 
Pittsburgh, Pa. 15206
Phone: 362-0200
With TWAit pays to be young.
Armed with just your TWA Bed and 
Breakfast* Plan, and a pack on your back, 
you can get a lot more of Europe for a 
lot less with TWA.
Here are some ways we help.
Bed and Breakfast
TWA’s "Bed and Breakfast^ 
gets you guest house 
accommodations (at the 
least) in 47 European cities, 
breakfast and extras like 
sightseeing or theatre tickets 
all at really low prices.
Europe Bonus Coupon Books.
Take your boaixding pass to any 'FWA 
'Hcket Office in l^ondon, Paris, Rome,
Frankfurt, Madrid, Athens or Amsterdam, 
and you’ll get a book of bonus coupons g(X)d 
for absolutely free things, as well as 
discounted extras like bicycles, theatre 
byDeyiS tickets, sightseeing, meals and lots, lots
more. Like we said, with TWA it pays to be 
young. For all the details write: TWA —
IT PAYS TO BE YOUNG, Box 25, Grand 
Central Station, New York, N Y. 10017.
BONUS
COUPON
BOOKS
nui liitakixl fc-v Hiqi k II fulu^ivrl) bv I A._

---------------------------------------------------

APARTMENT 
TO SUBLET
May 16th or June 1st 
to Aug 31st
Large beou?ifui!y furnished, cne 
bedroom apt., Oak*cind Shadvside 
vicinity (Morewood Ave.) Grad. 
Student or Prof Person(s) desired.
RENT NEGOTIABLE 
Phone: 687-2467 or 681-0360 (Eve)
ENTERTAINMENT
THE TARTAN-Tuesday, April 24, 1973-Page 11
Theatre
by Susan N. KleinClutchrider
When tickets were printed for Joel 
Houser’s play “The Incredible Saga of 
Montmorency Clutchrider,” the drama 
department did not have the foresight to 
double the number ordered. In all likeli­
hood, this is because they did not expect 
half the audience to flee the clutches of the 
Fine Arts building during intermission, 
never to return for the second act of the 
play. An usher was overheard wondering 
out loud if perhaps the doors should be 
kept locked during the performance to 
prevent any further escapes. The saga of 
Montmorency Clutchrider is far from in­
credible; save for being incredibly long. It 
is rather a tribute to the physical 
endurance of a fine cast and the saintly 
patience of whatever audience remains till 
the final curtain.
The main problem here is that Shubert 
Fellow Houser has tried to present in one 
evening of theatre the type of saga that 
took Galsworthy years to write and QED 
months to illustrate. Rather than base his 
saga on a family dynasty, Houser’s saga 
concerns an Everyman of Americana, who 
consents to enter a lifelong car race for a 
monetary reward. Willy Loman, woops, 
Montmorency Clutchrider, inextricably en­
cased in his automobile, travels forever and 
ever, stopping only for gas from Jack Burns 
(from Burns and Schreiber), and an 
occasional trip to the post office, the 
hospital, and finally a bar where he orders 
not scotch and soda but a . quadruple 
whiskey, and by the end of the evening, 
Montmorency is not the only one who 
needs to get “rip-roaring drunk”. (I think 
the folks on the lighting crew beat him to 
it, or perhaps they left along with the 
audience during intermission.) All this is 
guided by a Narrator (Barry Pearl with his 
index fingers pointing) who remains 
omniscient to the proceedings in all but two 
scenes, for an unclear reason.
Director Lawrence Carra has a lot more 
working to put this show across than just 
bodies and voices. A huge screen stands 
behind the set designed by William 
Matthews, and we are treated to various 
tapes, photo montages and animated films 
throughout the course of the three-hour
evening. The mixed-media effect is a 
wonderful idea in moderate or even large 
doses, but when the film clips begin to 
loose their wit and their vigor, and their 
sarcasm wears thin, they only serve to 
heighten the numbing impact of the 
evening. Moreover, for some reason Carra 
chose to work with a revolving stage-yet 
the possibilities of mobility were not fully 
explored, and the revolving stage was used 
mostly with a series of gliding-by roadsigns, 
and after several minutes of this I found 
myself wishing that Feste would come 
slinking around for another chorus of 
“When that I was and a little tiny 
boy . . . ”
The energy with which “Clutchrider” is 
performed is outstanding, but here too is 
another problem with the play. The acting 
ensemble starts out so high-keyed that 
there is absolutely no where for them to go 
but down and out. The original 
vivaciousness is there all along, however, but 
there are so many mini-climaxes to the 
play they begin to loose their effect. The 
crux of the problem is the abundant over­
use of almost every device or business 
presented in the play, with not enough 
concentration on a central thrust or focus. 
If you have your cast chanting “some­
thing’s coming” every five minutes, it is 
advisable to make sure that something 
actually does come.
The text of the play seemed painfully 
difficult -to perform, and there’s talk of a 
contest being sponsored where you count 
the number of cities that the company 
names, the prize being a Montmorency 
Clutchrider bumper sticker. Anyway, the 
idea of having the title character played in 
repertory by six actors right before our 
very eyes is certainly original. However, I 
wonder if it didn’t occur to Houser that he 
did indeed have six evenings worth of the 
same play up there. The acting was on the 
whole competent and versatile, and the 
fact that the cast made it through without 
collapsing is a tribute to their years of 
dynamics classes. Barry Pearl the Narrator, 
in one of his incarnations into a character 
in the play, does a fine Paul Lynde semi- 
impersonation.Emmet Walz’s'boomingvoice
David Hinchman, Emmet Walz and Robin Reiter.
Mark Palko as Clutchrider, with Martha Amper.
added much to what numor there was in 
the play. The most sensitively portrayed 
Clutchrider, although I don’t think we 
were supposed to know when they 
switched, was turned in by David Hinch­
man, yet Jim Braha, Mark Palko and David 
Krasner were not far behind him. Stephen 
L. Joseph’s Clutchrider was outshined by 
his fine Stan Laurel-esque comic bits, and 
Malik Purley’s small part was equally as 
well-played. The competent ladies of the 
evening, were not, with the exceptions of 
Judy Epstein and Ellen DiStasi, nearly as 
endearing, the fault perhaps of Mr. 
Houser’s centering of the play about 
Clutchrider, and giving the women such 
challenging things to play as waitresses, 
post-office workers, hair-strokers and bar- 
wenches. Laura G. Booker did well by 
Mango, Clutchrider’s truelove, and the 
company was rounded out by Martha 
Amper, Nancy Hendrickson and Robin 
Reiter. The sweatsuits were designed and 
pinstriped by Marilyn Kollar, and it’s too 
bad it was decided that everyone on stage 
had to look like a pit crew.
Now if you’re willing to wade through 
extraneous stage movements and too little 
action in a too long play that tries to say a 
lot more than it succeeds in doing, you’re 
at least in for three hours of good acting, 
and if you’re one of those people who 
doesn’t consider that a waste of time, you 
just might enjoy “Clutchrider”. Those seats 
get awfully uncomfortable after a while, 
though, so bring a pillow.
photos by Greg Nickel
Laura G. Booker and unidentified Clutchrtctef.

---------------------------------------------------

Page 12-THE TARTAN-Tuesday, April 24, 1973
art
/Botanical Art
/
Films
/
The exhibition by CMU students in the 
penthouse of Hunt Botanical Library is 
presented conventionally and unobtru­
sively, though many pieces are individually 
exciting and the show, in its entirety, is a 
compliment to the talents of the depart­
ment.
The theme for the exhibit is “Art 
Students Botanically Involved”; all of the 
art works on display are concerned with 
some form of plant life. The individual 
artists gave the common theme diversity 
and personal value through their choice 
and execution of subject matter. The 
works range from a large vivid “Great 
Flower” to small silver rings. “Great 
Flower”, an oil painting by Roger Dumas, 
is the first piece seen in the exhibit, and 
demands attention with its intense color 
and “op” dot effect. Contrasting this are 
several floral studies, rendered naturalis- 
tically in pastel, crayon, and lithograph by 
Elise Della Piazza.
There is a small amount of three- 
dimensional work in the show, but these 
pieces substitute quality for quantity. The 
glass sculptures by Ron Benton are 
particularly striking; their fluid, abstracted 
quality contrasts well against some of the 
more naturalistic pieces. Another fine
theatre news
sculpture is a small metal mushroom, cast 
by Debbie Chory.
This show is a good opportunity to see 
the work of CMU students and to compare 
their interpretations of the botanical 
subject with the collections, most of which 
are illustrations for books. It isn’t a large 
exhibit, containing 59 pieces and covering 
only one room, and the presentation 
permits a quick and thorough examination. 
The show is open 9:00 a.m. to 5:00 p.m. 
weekdays through May 18.
The third of four one-week exhibitions 
by graduate students in the Department of 
Painting and Sculpture was displayed last 
week in the Hewlett Gallery, on the first 
floor of Fine Arts. The initial presentation 
by Philip Rostek, titled “Taylor Mades & 
Tags”, included beer cans, a montage de­
tailing the oddyssey of Rostek’s tuxedo, 
and the tuxedo itself, arranged in a 
receiving line by the door. The works of 
Donald Smoley, a sculptor, were exhibited 
the week of April 9 to 23. Last week’s 
show by Joseph Fairbanks consisted of 
several large paintings, executed with 
brilliant colors in hard-edged non-objec­
tivity, and smaller lithographs and intaglio 
prints. Currently featured in the Hewlett 
Gallery are prints by Harrison Miller, on 
exhibition until April 27.
/Carousel Company
Pittsburgh Playhouse Executive Pro­
ducer S. Joseph Nassif, and Artistic Direc­
tor Ken Costigan, have announced that the 
final production of the 1972-1973 season 
will be “CAROUSEL”. Generally regarded 
as one of the greatest musical plays of the 
American Theatre, CAROUSEL will open 
in the Craft Avenue Theatre on May 3, and 
will run through June 16.
CAROUSEL was written by the notable 
team of Richard Rodgers and Oscar 
Hammerstein II, authors of such great hits 
as OKLAHOMA, SOUTH PACIFIC, THE 
KING AND I, and THE SOUND OF 
MUSIC. Adapted from Ferenc Molnar’s 
play, LILIOM, CAROUSEL is set in a New 
England seashore village at the turn of the 
century. This is the musical play that tells 
the touching story of a swaggering carnival 
barker and his love for a gentle factory girl.
The sets will be designed by Mary 
Ellen Kennedy, costumes by Susan Tsu, 
and lighting by Pat Simmons; all resident 
designers at the Playhouse.
CAROUSEL runs May 3 through June 
16, Tuesday through Saturday at 8:40 
p.m., Thursday matinee at 2:30 p.m., and 
Sunday matinee at 3:00 p.m.
The hit musical “Company” will pre­
miere in Pittsburgh Friday, April 27 at the 
Plaza Theatre in Bloomfield.
Originally produced on Broadway by 
Harold Prince, the musical won six Tony 
awards in 1970, with music and lyrics by 
Stephen Sondheim (A Funny Thing 
Happened on the Way to the Forum,. 
Gypsy, Follies, West Side Story, A Little 
Night Music) and book by George Furth 
(Twigs).
Barbara Deutsch, appearing as girl 
friend “Marta”, is a voice major at C-MU, 
where she just produced and directed her 
original musical, “An Old Fashioned 
Walk”.
Co-producers Nan Sommers and 
Jerry Comunale, Jr. express enthusiasm 
about both “Company” and the future 
of Camelot Productions.
“Company” will be performed every 
Friday, Saturday and Sunday from April 
27 through May 20 at the Plaza Theatre, 
4751 Liberty Avenue in Bloomfield. Cur­
tain is at 8:30 p.m.
For reservations or information, phone 
Camelot Productions at 481-6406. Tickets 
will be available at the door and at all 
National Record Marts.
BILLY PAUL IS COMING
with the “New Identity
in A EASTER CABARET
FRI., APRIL 27th — 9 until at the newly remodeled 
ALPINE - 2920 McKelvey Road
B Y. O. B. — Tickets, $6.00, $6.50 at door
Tickets available: Pitt Student Union, National Record 
Mart, City Music—Allegheny Center, Lee's Florist, 
The Gallary Cloth Shop
- A DELL VANN PRODUCTIONS -
The Long Goodbye
/
by Winton Snyder
“The Long Goodbye” starring Elliot 
Gould, directed by Robert Altman, script 
by Leigh Bracket
Robert Altman’s “The Long Good­
bye” is a facetious put-down of the murder 
mystery genre. Based almost negligibly on 
Raymond Chandler’s 1954 novel, the film 
stars Elliot Gould as Philip Marlowe, the 
original private eye. In spite of its failings, 
the film is not too insulting to the memory 
of Chandler since it has so little to do with 
him.
Raymond Chandler’s short career as 
a mystery author is tied very closely to his 
California of the 1930’s and 1940’s. The 
creation of Philip Marlowe established 
Chandler as an inovator in his field. Many 
of the so-called cliches of mystery fiction 
first appear in Chandler’s early work. Three 
aspects of Chandler mysteries make them 
distinctive. First, Marlowe’s hallmark is his 
superior conversational tone. Second, all 
the novels and short pieces are well paced 
in spite of incredible complexity. The third 
and most intriguing element is Chandler’s 
feel for the environment. Pre-smog L.A. 
never had it so good in print. Even the 
venerable Dashiel Hammett is unable to 
match Chandler in the creation of a 
textured surrounding. By remaining true to 
this last part of the Chandler formula, 
Altman’s movie almost finds a saving grace.
“The Long Goodbye” is Chandler’s 
sixth novel and a step below his work of 
the prior decade. Lengthier than its pre­
cursors, “The Long Goodbye” is a little 
sluggish and over populated. Still, it won 
1954’s “Edgar” award as the best new 
mystery novel. The core of the plot con­
cerns Marlowe’s efforts to clear a friend’s 
record , and in the process, to try and solve 
a double murder. For the film version, 
Altman discards roughly 100% of the plot 
and substitutes a facsimile related to the 
original only in its number of extraneous 
characters and situations.
As Marlowe, Elliot Gould lounges from 
scene to scene, mumbling, and failing to 
impress. Rarely does he exhibit any of the 
detective’s famous composure or
technique. Gould’s most grievious fault is 
his inability to control occurences. He 
seems only able to react to them. Gould is 
the sixth actor to play this role, both in 
terms of chronology and quality (the 
others include Dick Powell, James Garner, 
and of course Humphrey Bogart.) As a 
somewhat out of focus detective and in the 
context of this particular script, Gould 
probably is alright. But not as Philip 
Marlowe. No way.
Jim Bouton, non-actor and former 
non-pitcher, is cast as Terry Lennox, the 
implicated pal. Bouton would be perfect 
for the part, had he only consented to 
having his face operated on and his hair 
dyed. Nina van Pallandt, non-actress and 
former stool pigeon, is also featured, which 
proves what you suspected when you first 
noticed Gould and Bouton in the com­
pany. Altman is completely out for topical 
chuckles, even in his selection of the cast.
The key to the only worthwhile 
element in the film is in the treatment of 
Marlowe’s surroundings. It is impossible for 
Altman to re-create the L.A./Hollywood of 
the 1930s and 1940s that is so essential to 
Chandler. Besides, Howard Hawks had 
filmed Chandler’s “The Big Sleep” in 1945 
and already set the last word in faithful 
productions of Marlowe’s capers. Altman 
could, however, do a real job on the 
L.A./Hollywood of today. He could create 
a detective whose symbiotic relationship to 
L.A./Hollywood ‘73 is the same as 
Marlowe’s was in 1938. He could and he 
tries. Altman may lean a little too hard on 
the old home town, but the environment 
that emerges behind the characters is extra­
ordinarily attractive, possibly depraved but 
certainly real. With the exception of 
Marlowe’s neighbors, a very convincing 
backdrop follows Gould along his merry 
way.
Unfortunately what goes on in front of 
the backdrop is not especially interesting. 
The movie is too mild for satire, not 
serious enough for mystery, and too silly 
to be entertaining. This is Altman’s third 
dud since “M*A*S*H” and as critic Ken 
Sobel (and probably his lovely bride-to-be 
Sharon) would say: “Better luck next 
time.”
FLASH!!- Theatre afficianados should 
know that plans have just been announced 
to revive Michael Weller's critically ac­
claimed play "Moonchildren" off— 
Broadway. Steven Steinlauf, a 19 year-old 
sophomore in the drama department will 
be making his debut as the youngest 
theatrical producer in New York. Steinlauf
will begin casting for “'Moonchildren'' later 
this May. and will be rehearsing in August 
aiming for a September opening. Steinlauf 
had been an apprentice manager for David 
Merrick when that theatrical giant pro­
duced the original "Moonchildren" during 
the 1970- 71 Broadway season. We wish 
Steve the best of luck in his amazing and 
challenging venture. ______________
THE ACTIVITIES BOARD pretents
THE CONFESSION,
—from the man who gave us "Z". Costa Gaurus directs as Arthur 
London, former vice-Minister of Foreign Affairs, is tried in Prague 
in 1952 for political crimes.
FRI., APRIL 27th - DH 2210 - 7, 9:30 and 12 - 50< with AB Card

---------------------------------------------------

THE TARTAN-Tuesday, April 24, 1973-Page 13
lacques Brel is Alive and Well...
On Saturday night, April 21, the Act­
ivities Board, in cooperation with Wayne 
Adams presented the New York Touring 
Company, known here as the Alive Comp- 
g any in the famed musical “Jacques Brel is 
Alive and Well and Living in Paris.” This 
production was co-directed by Mr. Adams 
and Paul Plumadore, and featured the ver­
satile talents of Paul Baker, Mark Harlik, 
Shashi Musso and Dede Washburn.
“Jacques Brel” is more cabaret than 
traditional musical. It consists of twenty-f­
ive of Brel’s best songs, some of which have 
jr become standards in the repertoires of
many outstanding chanteurs the world
over, including “Carousel,” “Alone,” and 
“If We Only Have Love.” The sheer in­
tricacy and freshness of the music is en­
ough to compernsate for the lack of a 
book, and the English lyrics adapted by the 
original creators Eric Blau and Mort Shu­
man are cutting and sharp, not at all the 
pleasant banalities we are so frequently
* subjected to. The lyrics deal with death,
old age, brothels, the middle class, amd
they are all without the sappy sweetness 
that gums up the works of so many of 
today’s songs.
The Alive Company presented the songs 
with quite a great deal of youthful vitality, 
and this is evident in their stylizations of 
the songs, which can best be described as 
unique. There was abundant exuberance in 
the spirited performances, and the talent of
the cast was seemingly boundless. Some 
high points of the evning included Musso’s 
interpretations of “Marieke” and “The 
Middle Class” in the second act. Dede 
Washburn, her beautiful black tressess all 
but covering her body, did a fine job on 
“Sons Of’ and “Brussels” and among 
Baker’s fine solos were “Girls and Dogs” 
and the haunting “Next” which was spo­
ken rather than sung.
The arrangements of the ballad “Timid 
Frieda ” as a rock tune, with Musso strut­
ting like Mick Jagger, was certainly orig­
inal. Original too, was the acappella ar­
rangement of “The Desperate Ones.” And 
the evening’s high point, and perhaps the 
most famous Brel tune, “Carousel, was 
given a fully theatrical, if somewhat more 
discordant than usual treatment.
Technically, the show was faultless, 
with an adept musical ensemble lead by 
Mark Harlik playing keyboard, sounding 
particularly appealling. The only possible 
exception was when the instrument’s vol­
umes drowned out the singer’s voices. 
Many interesting lighting techniques were 
used, with the cast themselves working the 
movable light stands. The blinding climax 
of “My Death” was particularly stirring. 
The cast received a rousing standing ovat­
ion, and once again this internationally re­
known musical brought its power, warmth 
and humanity to another little niche of the 
world.
The finale, "If We Only Have Love."
photo by Ellen Eddy
WANT TO TALK? 
PEER HELP CENTER
687-7414BAKER HALL 150-A
With TWA it pays to be young.
TWA’s got a lot of things to help you 
in a lot of ways around the U.S. and Europe.
But nothing comes close to the adventure­
some brave blockbuster Worldtrek expe­
ditions (arranged exclusively through TWA).
Worldtrek.
This isn’t a vacation, it’s an experience.
From two weeks trekking the fjords of 
Scandinavia to 12 weeks on a pilgrimage, 
to Kashmir. You’ll find yourself 
camping with nomadic reindeer 
herdsmen, or boating across the 
Black Sea to Yalta.
For the exciting details, go to 
your TWA Travel Agent, Ticket 
Office, or Campus Rep. — or send 
the coupon below.
I TWA-TT PAYS TO BE YOUNG,"
I Box 25, Grand Central Station, N.Y., N.Y. 10017 
I Plèase send me information on the following:
I Worldtrek Bonus Coupon Books
¦ Stutelpass* Ovemite Pass *
I Destination Europe Pack Bed and Breakfast*
I Name_______________________________
Address
CitvStateZin
‘Service marks owned exrlusiveiv bv TWA.
Simple, 
straight-forward, 
classic - out of step 
with today's 
throwaway culture. 
Refillable cartridge, 
ballpoint or fiber tip 
marker in basic tan 
or navy blue.
$1.98: not bad fora pen 
you may use the 
rest of your life.
$1.98
SIUAIKI. MO«i D-MIIK. A

---------------------------------------------------

Pag* 14—THE TARTAN-Tuesday, April 24, 1973
SPORTS
Tartans Lose Battle 
of I.M. Leaders
by Ken Kloes
The track team continued its winning 
ways with a relatively easy 91-54 win over 
Washington and Jefferson on April 16. The 
Tartans did particularly well in the sprints. 
Jay Corpus, Jim Donnely, and Jim Adams, 
in that order, swept the 100 yd. dash. 
Corpus, Chuck McDonough, and Donnely 
also swept the 220 yd. dash. And Nevill 
Evans’ and McDonough’s 1-2 finish in the 
quarter mile gave C-MU a 25 point lead in 
those three events. Tom Silvis had an out­
standing day, winning the 120 yd high 
hurdles and the 440 yd. intermediate 
hurdles, taking second in the triple jump 
and third in the long jump to lead Tartan 
scorers with 14 points. The field events 
were about even, C-MU taking the edge on 
Nate Berger’s and Wendell Miller’s 1-2 high 
jump win. Other winners for C-MU were 
Ken Kloes in the one mile and three mile 
runs, Bob Musca in the shot put, and John 
Kotyk in the discus.
The Tartans joined the ranks of mere 
mortals, though, by losing to non­
conference rival Grove City, 96-49 two 
days later. The Grovers used an effective 
combination of talent and extreme depth 
to sweep six events. Bright spots for C-MU 
were first and second place finishes by 
Berger and Miller in the high jump and
jCMIirv ' *SP " ^I fl j1 1 J
, ' f- Jjj¦ JÉÉkìv âÊÊÊt & mk Jm
1 . m : Hiy
Ken Kloes leads the pack Tony McKay shows his form in long jump
Photo by Greg Nickel Photo by Greg Nickel
Campus Camera Headquarters 
FOR ALL YOUR 
PHOTOGRAPHIC NEEDS
Film
Processing — Equipment
CAMERA EXCHANGE
Student Discount on Most Items
Two Locations 
OAKLAND—3711 Forbes Avenue 
SHADYSIDE—5432 Walnut Street
Phone: 683-2181 
Phone: 683-8900
Run for the Money
by Evans and McDonough in the 440 yd. 
dash. Other winning Tartans were Berger in 
the 100 yd. dash. Corpus in the 220 yd. 
dash, Silvis in the 440 intermediate 
hurdles, and the quarter mile relay team of 
Corpus, Adams, Donnely, and McDonough.
Last Saturday saw C-MU host defending 
champions Case-Western Reserve. Despite 
losing the meet, which was closer than the 
90-55 score indicated, several team 
members scored personal triumphs by 
setting six team records. Berger led off the 
assault on the books with a high jump of 
6’2”. The 440 yd relay record fell to 
Corpus, Donnely, McDonough, and Tony 
McKay in a time of 44 sec. McKay, who is 
recovering from a pre-season leg injury, 
also made his debut in the half mile with a 
team record of 1 minute 57 seconds. 
Corpus set a team stadium record of 10.1 
seconds in the 100 yd. dash, and Silvis set 
the stadium record in the 440 intermediate 
hurdles with a time of 58.8 seconds. 
Corpus, Wayne Bingham, Evans, and 
McKay then broke the stadium record for 
the mile relay, winning it in 3:26.9. Others 
who won for C-MU were Evans, 440 yd. 
dash; Silvis, 440 hurdles; McKay, long 
jump; and Musca, shot put.
The team’s record is now 4-2. Re­
maining regular season meets are with 
Westminster on April 23, and Allegheny 
and Thiel on April 26. Both are at home.
by Glenn Campbell
Unlike the practioners of the world’s 
oldest profession, the participants of the 
world’s oldest sport have been grossly 
underpaid. As a matter of fact, they 
haven’t been paid at all. For years track 
athletes have had to live under an eligibility 
system that should have gone out with the 
Greeks. But because the ancient Greeks 
weren’t paid to perform in the Olympics, 
modern track athletes have been forced to 
forego remuneration.
While other athletes have become rich 
displaying their talents, track athletes have 
been told they can’t accept any money of 
any kind. This is well and good if an 
athlete is in college, where he should be an 
amateur. But what happens if an athlete 
wants to continue competing after grad­
uation? He can compete in meets but he 
still can’t receive any money. This means 
he must have a job to support himself and 
after a hard day, practice on the side. This 
life is not conducive to good performances 
so most track performers are in a state of 
limbo after their college eligibility expires.
Track meets can make a lot of money 
for their promoters. What is the Olympics 
but the world’s biggest track meet? The 
performers who make the Olympics such a 
great spectacle are only given expenses. 
After years of agonizing practice they are 
told they can’t even endorse a product. If 
Jim Ryun would have endorsed a certain
brand of toothpaste, he would have had to 
pack his bags. What does toothpaste have 
to do with track? Nothing. But Ryun 
would have been sullying his lily white 
amateur status by accepting money even 
though it would not be payment for a 
sub-four minute mile. But the U.S. 
Olympic Committee can receive money for 
endorsing Dinty Moore beef stew. This 
only goes to prove the hypocrisy of 
amateur sports. Some old man like Avery 
Brundage, living in the past, tells today’s 
athletes how to live. After all why should 
Brundage care about anyone else; he’s a 
millionaire. Curmudgeons in their Ivory 
Towers feel athletes shouldn’t be paid, so 
they aren’t. It’s as simple as that.
A man named Mike O’Hara dares to 
tread where wise men never go. He has this 
revolutionary idea that pro track can be a 
success. He has assembled a road show of 
name athletes to perform all over the 
country. Now the athletes will have the 
incentive to continue competing after 
college. The hypocritical illusions of 
amateurism are also being torn down. 
Finally track has become an honest sport.
Of course, there are disputes. Pros and 
amateurs aren’t allowed to compete side by 
side. And pro track hasn’t been quite an 
artistic success. But now that track has 
been pulled out of the dark ages and 
records are being assaulted at every turn, it 
can only mean a great future for athletes as 
well as fans.
New I.M. Head
Edward Schenk, a CMU junior and 
Psych English major, was recently elected 
head of the Student Intramural Athletic 
Board. He has been on the board for the 
last two years, as well as been Athletic 
Chairman of his fraternity, Pi Kappa 
Alpha.
His preference as an I.M. player has 
been basketball, football and softball, al­
though his participation has included at 
least eight sports.
CMU’s Intramural Director is Mr. Earl J. 
Birdy, a faculty member of the Phys. Ed. 
Department, though intramural sports are 
determined by the I.M. Board. Two sports 
newly established this year are Cross
Country and Individual Call Pool. The 
Board determines, as well as the sports, the 
rules and commissioner (who schedules 
games) for each sport and player eligibility. 
It inflicts fines for forfeits and lost equip­
ment, settles protests, and does “a variety 
of other jobs relating to I.M. sports.”
Schenck stated, “Hopefully, next year 
through greater communication with the 
dorms and frats about how the I.M. pro­
gram works at CMU and about which 
sports are in season, and through a greater 
dorm representation on the I.M. Board, 
more CMU students will come to take ad­
vantage of what is a fine program, here.”
CM-U Summer Softball League Play
JUNE 1st - AUGUST 1st
All Teams Must Register 
In Student Activities, Skibo 103 
by April

---------------------------------------------------

THE TARTAN-Tuesday, April 24, 1973-Page 15
Netmen Big Disappointment
by Bruce Hoffman
For the first time in over a decade the 
Tartan tennis team is having a losing 
season. Coach Javed Kahn, a star of the 
team in previous years, was not too 
optimistic at the beginning of the season, 
remonstrating that “the team cannot have 
indoor practice in the gymnasium because 
of intramural sports, and subsequently 
cannot get in shape.” Also, junior Henry 
Levy missed a match due to a death in his 
family and senior Tom Lampl and Dan 
Meess, a junior, must play with sore knees.
The team is now 1 and 5, having lost 
two heartbreaking 5-4 decisions to 
Allegheny and Waynesburg. However, they 
beat Bethany 5-4, while losing to Case 9-0, 
Grove City 8-1, and Geneva 6-3. There are 
four games, one of them home, remaining: 
Washington & Jefferson next Friday 
(away), Pitt - next Tuesday (home), and 
Hiram and Thiel, both away, later on.
The team is losing its best players, Dave 
Jarchow and Tom Lampl, due to gradua­
tion. However, some fine ones will be 
returning, including Dan Meess, Henry 
Levy, Steve Hoysan (Soph.), Roger 
Cambor (Fresh.), John Lankford (Fresh.), 
and Monte Ishige (Jr.).
Golfers find
X
Winning Track
bv Dan Buis
Tartan racketteers in Allegheny match
photo by Nick Lardas
This past Thursday the Carnegie-Mellon 
golfers swung into action in a match 
against Bethany and Geneva. The Tartans 
emerged victorious, led by Jim Lavin’s 77 
and Doug Stone, who shot an 80. Thursday 
was a nice day and one member of the 
team suggested cancelling the match 
because the Tartans had not practiced in 
good weather. John Luedeke showed the 
effects of the weather and shot a horren­
dous round of 55, but settled down and 
pulled out a 94. Jim Billetdeaux had an 89, 
John Snyder shot an 85, and Dennis 
Mitchell fired an 82.
C-MU faces Waynesburg (away) today 
and on Friday April 27 takes on Allegheny 
in a home match at the Longview C.C.
May 7 and 8 are the PAC Champion­
ships at Allegheny and C-MU has a shot at 
second place, if they show up. Right now 
finals week appears to have nixed the 
golfers’ participation. PAC standings are 
determined by the championship match 
only, so missing it would be especially 
unfortunate.
ABORTION
FREE PLACEMENT 
FREE PR EG. TEST 
MEDICAID ACCEPTED
CALL
595-4220
Controlled Parenthood 
Suite 55 
200 W. 72nd St. - N.Y.C.. N Y.
Safe - Low-Cost - Confidential 
A Non-Profit Organization
DISTRESSED
BY AN 
UNPLANNED 
PREGNANCY?
For counseling support and 
practical help, call
BIRTHRIGHT621-1988
ABORTION
INFORMATION 
ABORTION GUIOANCE
An Abortion can be arranged e1 thin 24 boon and you can ratum home the tame day you la
CALL TOLL FREE
(800)523-4436
A Non-Profit Or«anltat‘OA 
open 1 day* a wee*
With TWAit pays to be young.
Armed with just your Stutelpass,* and 
a pack on your back, you can get a lot more 
for a lot less with TWA.
Here are some ways we help.
Stutelpass.
For a mere $5.20 a night you’ll be 
guaranteed student hotel accommodations 
(at the least) without reservations in 
50 European cities. That includes breakfast, 
tips, seivice charges and, believe it or not, 
even some sightseeing. Pick up your 
Stutelpass Coupon Books at any TWA office, 
or see your Campus Rep.
Destination Europe Pack.
A free pack full ofeveiything you need 
U) know about getting around when you 
don’t know the language well enough to 
ask. Student flights, student tours, Eurail- 
pass application, Britrail Pass application, 
student I.D. applications and more.
Europe Bonus Coupon Books.
Take your boarding pass to any TWA
^3 Ticket Office in London, Paris, Rome, 
Frankfurt, MaROMIl<> r raiuutux, Madrid, Athens or Amsterdam,
CCuPD*\ and you’ll get a book of bonus coupons good
: nrvwc ^ for all kinds of free things and extras in BUUKa !COOPON0 tjK)se L,ike we said, with TWA it pays
to be young. For all the details write: TWA 
IT PAYS TO BE YOUNG, Box 25, Grand 
Centi-al Station, New York, N.Y. 10017.
Slutel|ua»Dü*r\w irfcuk owned cMrhtsiveH b> TWA

---------------------------------------------------

Page 16-THE TARTAN-Tuesday, April 24, 1973
SP91D 270 MVS OM A OMPUS UKÉ liO CTH® N TH€ WORLD’YOUR JUNIOR Y&® M N€WYORK... W N€WYORK UNN6RSITY
Music, art, poetry, 
theater, museums, 
libraries, archives, Wall 
Street, the United 
Nations, nationality 
neighborhoods, 
Greenwich Village, film 
and television studios— 
New York City is an 
unmatched extension of 
the educational 
experience at New York 
University.
Junior Year in New York 
study is available at 
NYU's Washington 
Square Center, in Arts 
and Science, Business 
and Public Administration, 
and Education. For 
detailed information, clip 
the coupon and mail 
today.
A sample of New York
Actors Playhouse, Seventh 
Avenue between Grove and 
Barrow Streets
Amato Opera Theater,
Bowery and Second Street
Bill Baird Puppet Theater,
Barrow Street near Bedford 
Street
Eighth Street Playhouse, 32
West Eighth Street between 
Fifth Avenue and Avenue of 
the Americas
Elgin, Eighth Avenue, near 
17th Street. Film festivals 
and old favorites
Henry Street Settlement 
Playhouse, Grand Street
Judson Memorial Church,
Washington Square South. 
Avant garde art, poetry, 
and dance
Mercer Arts Center, Mercer 
Street, between 3rd and 
Bleecker Streets. Theaters 
named for Lorraine Hans- 
berry, Bernard Shaw, Oscar 
Wilde, Bertold Brecht, and 
Sean O'Casey. The Blue 
Room Cabaret has jazz
Provincetown Playhouse,
MacDougal Street between 
3rd & 4th Streets. Home 
of Ruffino Opera
Public Theater, Lafayette 
Street near Astor Place. 
Birthplace of Hair; home of 
New York Shakespeare 
Festival; also has film 
anthology
St. Mark’s-in-the-Bowery,
Second Avenue at 10th 
Street. Poetry, drama, and 
music in church
St. Mark’s Playhouse,
Second Avenue between 
10th and 11th Streets
Sheridan Square Playhouse,
Seventh Avenue near Grove 
Street
Theater De Lys, Christo­
pher Street near Hudson 
Street
Village Gate, corner of 
Bleecker and Thompson 
Streets
Washington Square 
Methodist Church, West 
Fourth Street between 
Washington Square and 
Avenue of the Americas. 
Music, dance, drama, film
Dauber and Pine Bookshop,
Fifth Avenue near 13th 
Street. From plain and 
used books to rare and old 
books
Eighth Street Bookshop,
West Eighth Street. Schol­
arly, difficult-to-find books, 
extensive paperback col­
lection
Orientalia, Fourth Avenue 
near 10th Street. Eastern 
thought
Little Italy: Bounded 
roughly by Houston and 
Canal Streets, the Bowery 
and Lafayette Street. 
Salamis and warm fresh 
bread; fresh fruit and vege­
tables and seafood. The 
festivals of San Antonio in 
the late spring and San 
Genaro in the early fall.
Soho: The area south of 
Houston Street where a 
colony of artists lives and 
works in the spacious lofts. 
There are half a dozen 
galleries here, too.
Federal Hall Museum,
corner Wall and Nassau 
Streets. Site of many 
historic colonial events — 
Washington’s inauguration, 
Peter Zenger Trial, etc.
South Street Seaport, Fulton 
Street and Annex on Pier
16 facing John Street. 
Museum plus live events 
such as folk dancing and 
singing of sea chanteys
Fulton Street Fish Market,
Fulton and South Streets. 
Starts at 4 a.m.
Chinatown: The Bowery, 
Mulberry and Canal Streets 
enclose the tiny enclave.
The Chinese Museum is at 
7 Mott Street. The Eastern 
States Buddhist Temple is 
at 64 Mott Street. The 
Chinese New Year is cele­
brated the first day of the 
new moon between January 
21 and February 19
Financial District: between 
the Battery and Fulton 
Street and between Pearl 
and Greenwich Streets. The 
New York Stock Exchange, 
the American Stock Ex­
change, the Commodity Ex­
changes, the large insur­
ance companies and the 
head offices of the leading 
banks of the U.S. are here. 
The Federal Reserve lo­
cated here keeps the gold 
reserves of various coun­
tries of the world in vaults * 
built into the rock which is 
Manhattan Island
Carnegie Hall, 154 West 
57th Street. Concerts, 
recitals, and performances
Ceili Irish Festival of Song 
and Dance, Cathedral High 
School, 560 Lexington 
Avenue, 50th to 51st Streets
New York City Center, 131
West 55th Street. Dance 
and music recitals
American Institute of CPA’s,
666 Fifth Avenue, Room 
403. Library offers books on 
accounting, taxation and 
rare books on accounting
The broadcasting network 
libraries. By appointment. 
ABC at 1926 Broadway near 
64th; CBS at 524 W. 57th 
Street; and NBC at 30 
Rockefeller Plaza
Donnell Library, 53rd Street, 
between Fifth Avenue and 
Avenue of the Americas. 
Noted for books on the 
theater, has a regular 
schedule of films, concerts 
and lectures
Hargail Music Press, 28
West 38th Street. Recorders 
and recorder music their 
specialty — the only music 
shop of its kind in the 
country
Museum of Contemporary 
Crafts. West 53rd Street, 
between Fifth Avenue and 
Avenue of the Americas
Museum of Early American 
Folk Arts, West 53rd Street 
between Fifth Avenue and 
Avenue of the Americas
Museum of Modern Art,
West 53rd Street, between 
Fifth Avenue and Avenue 
of the Americas. Galleries, 
gardens, fountains — the 
very latest art, plus historic 
films
Museum of Primitive Art,
54th Street between Fifth 
Avenue and Avenue of the 
Americas
New York Cultural Center,
2 Columbus Circle. Variety 
of exhibits and events
Pierpont Morgan Library,
36th Street, corner of Madi­
son Avenue. Rare books 
and changing exhibits of 
art are splendidly displayed 
in this former homesite 
fashioned like an elegant 
Italian palazzo
Broadway: The central 
theater district is located in 
midtown along the streets 
that run East and West 
through Times Square
Madison Square Garden 
and The Felt Forum, be­
tween 32nd and 33 Streets 
and Seventh and Eighth 
Avenues. Concerts, cir­
cuses, rallys, sports, and 
other mass events. Home 
of the New York Knicker­
bockers and the New York 
Rangers
The United Nations, First 
Avenue between 42nd and 
47th Streets
Central Park, 59th Street to 
110th Street between Fifth 
Avenue and Central Park 
West
Martha Graham School of 
Contemporary Dance, 63rd 
Street near Second Avenue
Council for Inter-American 
Relations, Park Avenue at 
68th Street. Exhibits, 
music
El Museo del Barrio, Com­
munity School, District Four, 
206 E. 116th Street
French Institute, 60th 
Street near Madison. Lec­
tures, movies, library — 
English and French
Frick Collection, 70th 
Street at Fifth Avenue. 
Baronial mansion of an 
American industrialist, 
housing a private art col­
lection, recitals
Goethe House, Fifth Avenue 
between 82nd and 83rd 
Streets. Run by the Federal 
Republic of Germany; fea­
tures exhibits, displays and 
lectures
Jewish Museum, Fifth Ave­
nue at the corner of 92nd 
Street
Metropolitan Museum of 
Art, Fifth Avenue between 
80th and 84th Streets
Museum of the City of 
New York, Fifth Avenue at 
104th Street
National Academy of De­
sign, Fifth Avenue between 
89th and 90th Streets
Solomon R. Guggenheim 
Museum, Fifth Avenue be­
tween 88th and 89th 
Streets. The building itself a 
work of art by Frank Floyd 
Wright
Whitney Museum of 
American Art, Madison 
Avenue at 75th Street. 
Exhibits of American art­
ists who are still living 
Lincoln Center, Broadway 
and Amsterdam Avenue, 
between 62nd Street and 
66th Street. Home of the 
New York Philharmonic 
orchestra, the New York 
City Ballet, the Metropolitan 
Opera, and the New York 
City Opera
American Museum of Nat­
ural History, Central Park 
West, 77th Street to 81st
Street. Nearly twelve acres 
of exhibits
The Cloisters, Fort Tryon 
Park, west of Broadway 
near 190th Street. Recrea­
tion of the medieval world
Hispanic Society of Amer­
ica, Broadway between 
155th Street and 156th 
Street. Goya’s “Duchess of 
Alba," works by El Greco, 
Velasquez, Zubarian and 
Ribera
Museum of the American 
Indian, Broadway and 155th 
Street. Largest museum in 
the world devoted to the 
North American Indians
Riverside Museum, 310
Riverside Drive. Features 
Tibetan and Oriental art
New York Historical So­
ciety, Central Park West at 
77th Street
World Trade CenterTrinity ChurchSkyline from the East River Brooklyn BridgeThe United Nations
Office of Undergraduate Admissions 
905 Ti»eh Hall 
New York University 
Washington Square, New York 10003
I am interested in spending my Junior Year in New York studying 
Q Arts and Science ? Business and Public Administration 
? Education
.State..Zip.
I am presently enrolled at:.
