I T , FILE
3 COPIES Iff A . i
Field Goal Wins Game
Westminster Victors of Close Contest
SCIENCE WINS TROPHY
Score 773^2 Points
Dame Fortune, fickle jade, deliberately 
turned Tier back on our football team and, 
in one fatal moment, despite the crossed 
fingers of two thousand rooters, smiled 
upon the Westminster eleven. The game 
was so close that two breaks of luck, one 
against us and one for Westminster, de­
termined the contest. The first came 
when, in the third quarter, Hubler at­
tempted a field goal from the 25-yard 
line. The kick was from a favorable 
position and when started looked like 
three points for Carnegie, but the strong 
wind caught the ball side-ways, and car­
ried it less than three feet outside the goal 
posts. Westminster’s lucky streak came 
about the middle of the last period. • Meth- 
eny started a forward pass on Westmin­
ster’s 45-yard line, but Cleland jumped 
and seized the pig-skin before Humble 
could reach it, and, with a clear field before 
him, started for the goal line. Engstrom 
made a wonderful sprint to overtake the 
flying end, and attempted a tackle. He 
slipped, however, but caused Cleland to 
stumble and fall on our 20-yard line. 
He rolled 8-yards more before stopped. 
Westminster failed thrice to gain through 
the line being thrown for a loss of 3 yards. 
Tumbull then stepped back for a drop- 
kick, and the wind being favorable, the
DR. BRASHEAR LECTURES
Dr. Brashear had been planning to 
talk to us some time this year on the 
foreign technical schools which he recently 
visited, but owing to the fact that he had 
less than an hour’s notice to come to the 
Schools last Wednesday morning, he was 
unprepared to speak on this subject. He 
gathered up a few articles such as a large 
crystal of pure salt, a spider’s cocoon, etc., 
and stopped at a florist’s and purchased a 
few flowers. These to demonstrate his 
lecture the subject of which was: “The
Beautiful in the Common Things of Life.” 
He called attention to the fact that some 
flowers took material from the soil to make 
them one color, some another, how enough 
of this fine cob-web used for cross-hairs 
to reach around the earth would weigh 
about a pound. He exhibited one of the 
famous Rowland gratings, ruled 30,000 
lines to the inch, and told us several cal­
culations to show the enormous distance 
to some of the stars.
“Uncle John” is always welcomed -en­
thusiastically by the students. His per­
sonality is engaging, his message always 
strike? home. May a great many more
THE T. D. C. DANCE
Last Friday evening the Tech Design 
Club held the first of that series of dances, 
which has become almost a fi; t are with 
them for every school year. Their open­
ing dance was a masquerade—the con­
venient kind for which one may costume 
or not. However last Friday, a great 
majority felt the “call of the masque,” 
and entered into the affair with a spirit 
and preparation that made it a most de­
lightful party. The ccstumes were unique 
and varied, the music excellent, the pro­
gramme well chosen, and the attendance 
certainly all that could be desired by the 
management. It is to be hoped chat this 
organization, the only one that goes in for 
i mall informal dances of this sort, will be 
encouraged by the success of this first 
venture of the year to follow it up with 
others and may they not be too far apart.
ovoid sailed over the bar for a clean field 
goal, and the only score of the game.
The game was the best and closest in 
many ways of any of the season. The 
home team was not so heavily outweighed 
as usually, the back field men being of 
almost equal size. The visitors had a 
considerable advantage of weight on the 
line, but what our men lacked in weight 
they more than made up in skill and spirit.
An event that was felt worse than the 
loss of the game, was an injury to Ache. 
The game little half-back, who has been 
a star in every game of the season, sus­
tained a broken shoulder. This will mean 
his .absence for the rest of the season, a 
loss that is almost a calamity to the team. 
Hubler was. sent in to try for a field goal, 
but a few scrimmages sent him to the field 
house with a renewed injury to his lame 
knee, that will keep him out of the re­
maining games.
Metheny as usual was the most consis­
tent ground-gainer for the Plaid. He sel­
dom failed to gain through the line, and 
his punting and passing were of the highest 
order.- In the line, Captain Crawford, 
Clair and Paterson divided honors. Their 
quick work and fierce tackling threw the 
Blu£ and White backs for repeated losses.
Continued on page 4
years be added to the 72 which he now 
carries so lightly, and his visits to us be 
frequent. His motto, which we have 
heard before, he gave us again: “Nothing 
is good enough that you can make better.”
For the second consecutive time, the 
Science Plebes won the annual Inter- 
'Schools Plebe Meet. The event was 
originally set for Saturday, November 2, 
but the date was changed to Tuesday, 
November 5, in order to celebrate Election 
Day. With the Democrats, the Scientists 
scored an overwhelming victory, while the 
Progressive Industrialists made a trailing 
second, and the Artists played the part of 
Republicans. The returns showed the 
winners’ results to be 77 Yi points, a plur­
ality of 443^ over the nearest contestants 
whose count showed 33 points, and the 
tail-enders carried enough events to show 
23J/2 points.
The Science school made the best show­
ing in the number of men taking places 
as w'ell as having the best individual stars. 
A total of 11 men secured places in 13 
events, exclusive of the relay races. For 
the Industries, 10 men placed in 10 events, 
and 7 Design men scored in 8 events. 
Science athletes wTere frozen out of the 2 
mile race only. The relay race added two 
more names to the Science list, bringing 
the total to 13 men in 14 events.
The winning team also included the 
four highest individual point winners, 
who among them scored 5734 of the total 
773^ points. King, a former Shady Side 
boy, w7as the star, winning the high hurdle 
race, the low hurdle race, the broad jump 
and the high jump, and scoring 20 points. 
Daugherty scored 15 points by winning 
the three weight events. Humble won 
the 100-yard dash and the one mile run, 
and ran on the winning relay team, scor­
ing 1134 points. Wright captured the 
pole vault, and placed second in the broad 
and the high jumps, which gave him a 
total of 11 points. Parke was the sensa­
tion of the Industries team, taking places 
in four events. He captured second in 
each of the three weight events, and third 
place in the broad jump, which scored 10 
points to his credit. Stine, from the same 
school, also did well, capturing third place 
in the discus throw and the shot put, 
and tieing for third place in the high jump, 
as well as running on the second place 
relay team. Eerry was the most valuable 
man to the Design team. He came in 
w’inner of the 440-yard dash, second place 
man in the 120-yard hurdles and tied for 
third place with Stine in the high jump, 
his score being 83/2 points.
No records were broken, but the marks 
set were promising of better work when a 
training season has put the men in good 
condition. No doubt, rrany of the con­
testants in the meet will occupy places 
on the Varsity next spring, and will help
Continued on page 0.
T. A. C. MEETING—NOV. 7
A goodly number of the members of the 
T. A. C. gathered in one of the class rooms 
of the Design building on Thursday even­
ing at 8:00 o’clock. Regular meeting was 
held first and a great many important 
subjects were discussed, the arguments 
waxing quite warm at times. At the close 
of the meeting an informal smoker was held 
with eats and cider to moisten the parched 
tongues of the orators.
BAND NEWS
The band is now fully organized, and 
will begin making preparations at once for 
several concerts to be given during the 
school year. A better class of music has 
been selected for these concerts than has 
ever before been attempted, and the 
manager is confident that in a short time 
his men will be able to give a concert 
program second to no school band in the 
country.
The work of organizing and getting a 
start has been much easier than ever be­
fore, owing to the efficient work of Mr. 
Welker, who, as manager last year, placed 
the band on a solid footing, and has been 
of inestimable value to the manager this 
year in getting a successful start. Owing 
to his interest and business ability, “Jim­
my” has been retained on the executive 
board as advisory manager.
The managers this year are working 
hard for uniforms and now áre confident 
that in a short time the band will be sup­
plied.
A few important instruments are lack­
ing, and every man who can play is urged 
to come out. Rehearsals are held every 
Wednesday afternoon from our until 
six, and Mr. O’Brien, the director, is very 
anxious that every man turn out on time. 
---------------o---------------
The instruments and apparatus con­
nected with the wireless station in the 
Industries building were completely* over­
hauled and set in order Monday and Tues­
day of last week so that the result oc the 
election could be received as early as pos­
sible.
---------------o----------------
J. S. Taylor of the Forge, read and re­
read last week’s Tartan to find some men­
tion of the boy which the stork delivered 
to his home a few days ago, but we had 
overlooked that news item.
If the youngster comes up to the ex­
pectations of his dad he’ll make an expert 
forgeman a few years hence.
---------------o---------------
We have already noticed a change in 
the affairs of the Government since Wil­
son’s election; Uncle Sam delivers the 
mail to the Tech Schools in a new Stude- 
baker deliverv autc.

---------------------------------------------------

2THE TARTAN
THE TARTAN
Published weekly by the Undergraduates 
of the Carnegie Institute of Technology, 
Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania.
Business communications should be 
addressed to the BUSINESS EDITOR; 
all articles and other communications 
should be sent to the EDITOR-IN-CHIEF.
SUBSCRIPTION RATES 
Yearly SI.00 5c per Copy
Entered in the Post Office of Pitts­
burgh as second class matter.
PITTSBURGH, PA., NOV. 14, 1912.
BOARD OF EDITORS. 
Donald D. Mitchell, ’13.Editor-in-Chief 
G. Guy Kelcey, ’14.. Business Editor
C. B. Kline, ’13..........Athletic Editor
Eugene Dowling, ’09..Alumni Editor 
Albert E. Ball, ’13.... Science Editor
A. H. Good, ’14............Design Editor
Guy Elliott, ’13.... Industries Editor
Margaret H. Webb, 14..................
........................M. M. C. S. Editor
W. H. Searight, ’15. Exchange Editor
Charles E. Gilson, ’14.....................
..................Assistant News Editor
W. I. Wilson, ’16.............................
Assistant to the Athletic Editor
TECH NIGHTS?
Last week the buildings were flooded 
with pink sheets of paper carrying sundry 
printed matter, supposedly English, tell­
ing of the wonderful “Tech Night” to be 
held in a downtown theater on the evening 
of the Westminster game. Now, the Tar­
tan’s understanding of a “Tech Night” 
is entirely different from this cheap com­
mercial affair, run not at all for the benefit 
of the students, but for that of the theater. 
Just why Carnegie should continue to 
allow the representatives of this theater to 
use her name for an advertising scheme 
is beyond the comprehension of the Tar­
tan, which can very well remember the 
real “Tech Nights,” gotten up and man­
aged by the students, and recalls with 
pleasure the enjoyment obtained there­
from by all. They were of an entirely 
different character from the so-called 
“Tech Nights” which have been inflicted 
with such frequency of late. The Tartan 
does not believe for a minute that a major­
ity of the members of the student-body 
enjoy having its spirit and love for Car­
negie made the basis of an advertising 
scheme. The purpose of the promoters 
is one of pure commercialism and not one 
of Carnegie loyalty, and it is high time 
that a stop is put to this cheapening of 
the name of our Alma Mater.
WHY NOT?
Why not have some more tennis courts? 
Why not have enough so that the demand 
can be more nearly satisfied than at pres­
ent? That there exists a demand for 
courts which far exceeds the supply can 
be readily testified to by those possessing 
common powers of observation. So why 
not make enough new courts that at least 
a majority of those desiring to take a little
physical exercise by way of swatting a 
tennis ball can do so without waiting an 
hour or two for the chance? Does anyone 
offer objection? Then get behind the 
movement and push. The manager of the 
tennis team is carrying on a campaign for 
more and better courts and he deserves 
your support. Aid him in securing what 
we badly need, enough courts so that all 
can have a reasonable opportunity to play 
the game of tennis.
OUR MUDDY TRAIL
Just about a year ago The Tartan was 
carrying on a campaign for the improve­
ment of the Muddy Trail. The results, 
slow in arriving, were nevertheless dis­
tinctly gratifying to our vanity, for The 
Tartan is only human and therefore has 
such a thing. But it made us sad to note, 
when walking over our especially con­
structed board walk, that there is much 
need of a third plank, quite as much need 
for it in fact, as there is for the third rail 
in the New York Subway. Therefore 
The Tartan desires to serve notice that 
unless the plank be added to the walk it 
will add one to its platform and instigate 
another of its telling campaigns on the 
behalf of the down-trodden student.
We understand that the band is to have 
uniforms. Good work! They earned 
them long ago and the Tartan is glad to 
know that they are at last to receive them.
Our Athletic Editor objects to having 
you notice his form as he runs up and 
down the side lines. Please don’t look.
It will be noticed from an article in this 
issue that the trial of the Muddy Trail is 
still with us.
The Tartan desires to make a confession. 
It has always claimed to be free and inde­
pendent. One of its staff secured an 
excellent joke on a member of the Faculty. 
He did not publish it because he was told
that he would flunk all his—------if he did.
Such is the life of an editor.
The reason the election returns came 
in so quickly election day is that so many 
Tech men were gathering them.
Now that the monthly cards are out 
we have nothing to fear for another month.
The Commercials are pleased to an­
nounce that the elevator at the lower end 
of Science was again in operation last 
week. It had just returned from its 
summer vacation.
GENERAL LECTURES
It is with keen disappointment we note 
that, in spite of the fact that the General 
Lectures delivered every Wednesday morn­
ing at 12 o’clock are always most interest­
ing, the attendance is still poor, there 
being many vacant chairs. What is the 
cause of this? It may be any of the three: 
Is it the Plebes who are conspicuous by 
their absence, due possibly to the fact 
that they do not yet know the value of 
the lectures? Is it because the lecture 
comes at what would otherwise be the 
lunch hour, and many of the men prefer 
to go and eat? Is it because so far as 
noticed, no roll has yet been taken at the
lectures? If it is because of the hour, it 
seems to us that it would be a good thing 
to have the lecture at 11 o’clock, shifting 
those classes to 12 or 1, and the tempta­
tion to go to lunch would not be so great.
Several recent meetings of the men on 
the faculties have resulted in the organiza­
tion of a Faculty Club. A hundred char­
ter members have already been enrolled 
and Room 223 in thé Industries Building 
is now being fitted up for a Club room. 
Officers elected are: President, Director 
Hamerschlag; Vice-President, Professor 
Crabtree; Secretary-Treasurer, Professor 
Leeds; Board of Trustees, Mr. Tarbell, 
Professors Day, Bergey and Calderwood 
and the president.
“Patronize our Advertisers.”
Conductor (to passenger)- “We ran over 
a cat down the line.”
Passenger: “Was the cat on the line?” 
Conductor: “Why, of course not. We
chased up an alley after her.”—Chicago 
Daily Socialist.
“Your Honor,” said the arrested chauf­
feur, “I tried to warn the man, but the horn 
would not work.”
“Then why did you not slacken speed 
rather than run him down?”
A light seemed to dawn upon the pris­
oner.
“That’s one on me. I never thought of 
that.”
The Real Test
“How,” the president ®f the Fat Men’s 
Club was asked, according to a magazine 
writer, “did you prevent fraud among 
your applicants for membership? Didn’t 
some men try to get in that weren’t up to 
the standard weight?”
“Yes,” the portly officer replied, “but 
it was no use. Applications had to be pre­
sented in person at the Polk Building, fifth 
floor. There was no elevator. The "appli­
cant climbed the five flights of stairs. At 
the top he met a man who asked, ‘Were 
you looking for the Fat Men’s Club?’ ‘Yes.’ 
‘The main office is on the first floor,’ the 
man said. ‘Your application is rejected. 
We receive no man who can climb five 
flights of stairs.’ ”
“Maniacs”
The governor of Maine was at the school 
and. was telling the pupils what the people 
of different states were called.
“Now,” he said, “the people from In­
diana are called ‘Hoosiers’; the people 
from North Carolina ‘Tar Heels’; the peo­
ple from Michigan we know as ‘Michigan­
ders.’ Now what little boy or girl can tell me 
what the people of Maine are called?”
“I know,” said a little girl.
“Well, what are we called?” asked the 
governor.
“Maniacs.”
Just as Good
The auto halted before the general store of 
the village. The man alighted and accosted 
the single clerk:
“I want to get a linen duster,” he said. 
“I am sorry,” returned the clerk easily, 
“we are just out of linen dusters; but I 
can let you have a nice feather duster.”
DIRECTORY.
ATHLETICS.
Football— F. S. Crawford, Japt.
Finkel, Mgr.
2108 Carson St.
Baseball— J. R. Gearhart, Capt.,
E. H. Grotefend, Mgr.,
5437 Aylesboro St.
Basketball—
R. W. P. Colvin, Capt.
W. J. Corbett, Mgr.,
5141 Woodlawn Ave.
Track— C. M. Crawford, Capt.,
Thor ' Engstrom, Mgr.,
237 N. Dithridge St 
Tennis Association—
A. D. Beeken, Jr., Mgr.
5141 Woodlawn Ave. - 
SENIOR CLASSES.
Science— C. M. Crawford,
Industries—A. E. «Hamilton,
Design— j. Fi Hays, Jr.
M. M. C. S.—
Tri Senior, Margaret Eggleston, 
Senior, Laura Green, 
SOCIETIES.
Musical Clubs—
R. M. Crawford, Pres.
L. E. Griswold, Mgr.
5137 Woodlawn Ave.
White Friars—H. C. Franks, Pres. 
Walter Jones, Jr., Mgr.,
309 Oakland Ave.
Seaunachie—F. S. Crawford, Pres., 
Carnegie Band- Clete L. Boyle, Mgr..
9 Mawhinney Street.
T. A. C.—M. G. Kingsley, Pres.,
T. M. C.—Guy Elliott, Mgr. 
Draftsman’s Club— Guy Elliott, Pres. 
T. D. C.— Eleanor Tener, Pres.
Civil Engineering Society—__________O. N. Hetle, Pres.
Fulcrum Club—
Thos. O. Carlisle, Pres.
Mho Club— R. W. Freeland, Pres. 
Crucible Club—H. G. Texter, Pres., 
Mechanical Club—J. E. Haines, Pres 
CLUBS AND FRATERNITIES. 
Beta Theta Epsilon—
5437 Ayleboro Ave. 
Schenley^ 2508.
Sigma Rho—4619 Forbes St.
Schenley 9271-J.
Sigma Tau— 5141 Woodlawn Ave.
Schenley 9373-J.
Pi Chapter, Theta Xi—
237 Dithridge St.,
Schenley, 9143.
Woodlawn Club—
5137 Woodlawn Ave.
_________Schenley 9020._________/_
Xi Sigma Upsilon—
311 McKee Place.
Schenley 9253.
Zeta Lambda Epsilon—
4513 Forbes St.
9052-J Sshenley- 
Alumni Ass’n. of Applied Science and 
Design—
W. H. Rieger, Sec. & Treas., 
Room 204 A. & J. Bldg., 
Carnegie Institute of Technology.
Student Senates—
Design—A. H. Good, Pres. 
Industries—Guy Elliott, Pres.
Athletic Board of Control—
L. C. Dillenback, Pres.
P. K. McGill, Secretary 
305 Oakland Avenue.

---------------------------------------------------

THE TARTAN3
CAMERA CLUB TO BE STARTEDThey Find It Out
Open To All Interested
There has long been considerable agita­
tion for the formation of a Camera Club 
or better, a Photographic Club. The 
matter has come to a head with the consent 
of Mr. C. C. Leeds to receive the names of 
all those desiring to join this Society. It 
is planned to have the membership open 
to those interested in photography in 
both the faculty and student bodies. 
While, of course, the form of organization 
has not been worked out, it is thought ay 
those most directly interested to make it 
informal and to have as its object the 
helping.of others and the spreading of new 
methods and ideas. There are several' 
dark rooms in the buildings and it is hoped 
that the Society may have the use of these.
All persons interested are requested to 
hand or send their names to Mr. Leeds, 
Industries Building, who will notify them 
of the time of the first meeting. In order 
to help in the work The Tartan will see 
that any names written on a sheet of 
paper and marked “Camera Club” which 
are dropped in The Tartan boxes reach 
the proper person.
DESIGN SCHOOL NOTES
“TO NIGHT PREPS’
We, the Third Year Night Science men 
wish to rongratulate the newly elected 
officers of the Night Preps and extend to 
them our heartiest wishes for success. 
However, we wish to inform you that be­
fore one can “set the pace” he must be 
able to keep the pace already set by others. 
We, most generously, shall aid you where- 
ever possible to reach “our pace” and any 
records concerning same may be obtained 
by applying to the Class Officers, whose 
names were published in the last issue of 
the “Tartan.”
The Alumni Association of the Indus­
tries School intends to secure a room in the 
Industries building and furnish it through­
out for the accommodations and comfort 
of members of the Association in school 
at the present time.
“Patronize our Advertisers.”
She: “There’s onething about me; when 
asked to sing I don’t say I can’t, I just 
go ahead.”
He: “I see, and let the company find
it out for themselves.”
Hard to Understand
Out in Edgewater there is a man who 
has worn a serious look since his little 
daughter perched on his knee one evening 
and asked:
“Papa, was it a wise person who said, 
‘The good die young?’ ”
“Yes,” he replied, “I suppose he must 
have been very wise.”
“Well,” the child replied,, after thinking 
it over for a time, “I’m not so much sur­
prised about you, but I don’t see how ma­
ma managed to get growed up.”—Selected.
Calming Her
Mrs. Fidget. “What’s that noise I hear 
down in the library?”
Mr. Fidget. ‘Must be the history re­
peating itself. Go to sleep.”—Puck.
Observing Orders
The Class “A” sketch that came out last 
Saturday was for a “Public Bath.” It 
will be a huge problem for which only five 
weeks are given. Since the Thanksgiving 
vacation occurs in that time, the little 
“Work while you work; play while you 
play” slogan should be revived and heeded.
Pat was unmercifully laughed at for his 
cowardice by the whole regiment, but he 
was equal to the occasion.
“Run, is it?” he repeated scornfully 
“faith, an’ I did nayther. I jist observed the 
gineral’s express orders. He told us, 
‘Shtrike for home and your country,’ and
I shtruck for home. Them that shtruck 
for their country is there yet.”—Selected.
The Class “B” esquisse-esquisse had 
for its subject “A Recreation Park.” The 
importance of this branch of the Beaux 
Art work is not sufficiently felt by the 
class “B” men, and it is to be regretted 
that so few made even an attempt to do 
the problem.
More Ways than One of Falling
À
Now that the vaulting is up and the 
scaffolding down in the long hall on the 
first floor of the building begin to feel it 
scale and its suitability for class fights and 
rushes. It yet remains for it to te dedi­
cated to such.
When Visitors Came
He Had an Explantation
A committee had the State senator on 
the carpet.
“Didn’t you promise, if we elected you, 
to get our county good roads?”
“Why, certainly, gentlemen.”
“Did you do it?”
“No. You see, airships are getting very 
common now. I thought we’d better wait 
a few years maybe we won’t need any 
roads at all then. Fine weather for corn, 
isn’t it?”— Kansas City Journal.
What They Escape
Willie: “Paw, what is the middle class?” 
Paw. “The middle class consists of 
people who are not poor enough to ac­
cept charity and not rk h enough to 
donate anything.”—Sacred Heart Review.
“It is much better to form a char­
acter than to reform one.
6227 Penn Avenue 
6222 Frankstown Avenue
The Shape of Bottom 
NEW CUSTOM SHOE
STOEBENER
Man With Quality Shoes
East End
Her Besetting Sin
When four-year-old Amelia was told she 
might say grace she mingled her thanksgiv­
ing with petition.
“Dear Lord,” she said, “pleath bleth 
thith food and help uth to eat it thlowly.”
Under Suspicion
There were times when McFee gloried 
in the fact that he was the father of nine 
children, even if they were on the lines of 
the proverbial human stepladder, but on the 
day when he was taking them out for a 
walk he felt chagrined.
He was walking along at a fairly good 
gait when he was halted by a policeman, 
who asked:
“I say, you, what you been doin’?” 
“Nothing,” replied McFee. “Why?” 
“Well, what’s the crowd following you 
ior!”—Judge.
Puzzling
Lady Customer (in department store). 
“Have you anything to keep hair from fall­
ing?”
Clerk. “Hairpins, two counters to the 
right, madam.”
“Well,” said Yuss, “I’ve taken a powder for my headache, a pellet for my liver, and a capsule for my gouty foot. Now what puzzles me is how do the things know the right place to go after they get inside.”— Philadelphia American.
Uncertain
“Mother,” asked the little one, " on the 
occasion of a number of guests being pres­
ent at dinner, “will the dessert hurt me, or 
is there enough to go round?”—Sacred Heart 
Review.
A Champion
Prize-fighter (entering school with his son): “You give this boy o’ mine a thrash-in’ yesterday, didn’ yer?”Schoolmaster (very nervous): “Well—I—er—perhaps—. ’ ’Prize-fighter: “Well, give us your ’and;you’re a champion. 1 can’t do nothin’ with ’im myself. ’ ’—Punch.
A Difference
George Ade, at a dinner in New York, urged a nicer use of words.‘Use words with delicate care, he said. “Observe all their subtle distinctions, ‘sight’ is what you mean.”“There’s no difference between ‘sight’ and ‘vision,’ ” interrupted an editor.“No?” said Mr. Ade. “And yet, ‘Billy,’ when you and I passed each other on Broad­way yesterday afternoon, the girl I was with was a vision, while the one with you was a sight.”
One day Mark Twain was being shaved by a very talkative barber and was forced t"> listen to many of his anecdotes. The barber had to strop his razor, and when he was ready, brush in hand, to commence again, he asked: “Shall I go over it again?”“No thanks,” drawled Mark. “It’s hardly necessary. I think I can remember every word.”
Chocolates
“Have you purchased your new7 car yet, Mrs. Noorich?” asked the visitor.“No, Mr. Smithers, I ain’t. I can’t make up my mind whether to get a gasoline car or a limousine car. Maybe you can tell me—docs limousine smell as bad as gaso­line?” inquired the lady.—Harper's Weekly.
One of the few things that can come between friends. In fact the oftener it comes the better she likes it.
REYMERS
Dancing Deportment Aesthetics
McDougall Dancing Academies
Wood Street and Fifth Avenue, Downtown 
4614-16 Forbes Street, Oakland 
Penn and Shady Avenues, East Liberty
Jacques’ Dancing Academy
CRAIG AND FORBES STREET 
PITTSBURGH, PA.
Bell Phone 2797 Cedar. P. &. A. thone 952-AH. A. BECKER,
MUSIC HOUSE EVERYTHING KNOWN IN MUSIC Headquarters for Band and Orchestra Instruments, Music and Supplies 
No 601 Ohio Street it o TVaa t. TDcorner of Middle N. Pittsburgh, Pa.
EASILY DEFINED
First Student—I have heard you use the 
word “cheap-skate” quite often; can you 
define it?
Second Student—Yes. It’s the fellowT 
who reads the Tartan each wTeek without 
having paid for it, either borrowing one 
from somebody, or hunting up one that 
has been read and laid aside.
It was the busy hour in the quick-lunch- 
eon establishment, says Brooklyn Life. 
The overworked waitress hurried up to the 
waiting customer.
“Tea or coffee?” she demanded.
He smiled pleasantly upon her.
“Don’t tell me,” he whispered. “Let me 
guess.”

---------------------------------------------------

4THE TARTAN
FIELD GOAL WINS GAME
Continued from page one.
Paterson also broke through and tackled 
his man for a loss on several occasions. 
Stonerod ran the team for the greater 
part of the game, and did it well. His 
star performances, however, were return­
ing the ball from a kick. On two occasions 
he gave wonderful demonstrations of 
broken field running. Engstrom broke 
into public notice by intercepting forward 
passes and tricks of such kind.
As before, our men played best in the 
third quarter, although their style was of 
the gilt edge quality throughout the game. 
In this one period the ball was n our terri­
tory but once, and then for a short minute. 
Two attempts at a field, goal were made in 
the quarter, but a high wind made kicking 
of all kinds uncertain.
^ For Westminster, Captain Vincent. For­
tney and Turnbull played best. Formey 
was brought back of the line often to 
carry the ball, and showed up at his 
natural position as fullback to advantage.
The line up:— ^
Carnegie Tech-0 Westminster-3
Paterson.............L. E.......................Canon
Crawford (Capt)L. T....................Formey
Clair.................L. G..................Vincent
Engstrom........C..............McQuiston
McCaughey ....R. G..................Tallant
Welch...............R. T........McLaughrey
Peterson..........R. Ë..................Cleland
Stonerod..............Q.........Buckley
Park..................L. H....................Martin
Ache.................R. H....Blair
Methenv...............F...................Turnbull
Substitutions—Carnegie: Balsinger for 
Ache, Hubler for Park, Humble for Hub- 
ler, Hall for Stonerod, Walrath for Eng­
strom; Westminster—Milligan for Turn­
bull. Referee—Young, Penn. Umpire— 
Coulter, Brown. Head Linesman—Hew­
itt, Michigan. Time of periods: 12 min­
utes.
---------------o---------------
NEWS FROM THE GYM
A league is being formed among the 
classes and other organizations of the 
school for a championship tournament. 
Instead of the teams playing only basket­
ball, each team will represent its organiza­
tion in baseball, volleyball and basketball 
contests. The league proved a source of 
great interest in floor work last winter, 
and it is expected that the three games 
will draw a still larger list of entries than 
before. An elimination series will be run 
off during the week preceding Thanks­
giving Day, and the championship games 
will start the week following. Every club, 
class and fraternity should enter at once. 
Entries will be received by Mr. McCulloch 
and Mr. Eyman until the close of next 
week.
A gymnasium class for members of the 
faculty will be started on Wednesday of 
this week.
Students are cautioned not to waste 
the hot water in the -showers. These cold 
nights, the Varsity men need all they can 
get.
PIERPONT, SiVITER & CO.
ENGRAVING PRINTING
EMBOSSING
Monograms' and Crest Stationery promptly furnished in the latest styles in addition to all classes of Art Printing for social and commercial purposes
117=119 SHADY AVENUE
Bell phone 1587 Court P. & A. phone 3112
WHITTINGTON & CO.
6001-2-3 Jenkir / 
Arcade 
Pittsburgh, Pa.
For Hire
Notch COLLARS
A1EDORA 2l/s in. CHESTER 2 in.
2for95ct^_J^JETT, PEABODY & CO., Makers
Full Dress Suits, Frock 
Coats, Tuxedos, Silk Hats, 
White Vests, S t r i p e d 
Trousers, Opera Hats, 
Black Suits for Funerals.
New Place, New Suits 
New Styles
MUSICAL CLUBS AT THE EXPOBest service west
of New York
BRANCHES: 
Cincinnati, Ohi> 
Cleveland, Ohio
eldGoadW nasm
At the second annual East Liberty 
Expo last Friday night, the Musical Clubs 
distinguished themselves by giving two 
good concerts. The two thousand people 
present greatly enjoyed the music, causing 
the Glee and Mandolin Clubs to respond 
frequently with encores. The press has 
the following to say of the concerts. “Last 
night was German and Carnegie Tech 
night. The Carnegie Tech Musical Clubs 
gave an exceptional program and were well 
applauded.” Mr. Harry Cohn one of the 
directors of the Expo complimented the 
men upon their ability, while the manager 
of “Susie the Wild Girl” entertained the 
combined Clubs after the closing hour of 
the Expo. After this inspection there 
were several hot discussions, but the men 
were technically trained and thus could 
reach no conclusions.
TO RENT—Double Furnished Room, 
2nd floor front, twelve minutes walk from 
school.37 North Boquet St.
Phone 988-J Schenley.
Tumbu//
Tcoc.Ò/xrtÀÇ/a/rr,í}fi<tny
lòui/
Turnte//
rtt/nbof/
__•=o•*/'/© 0c//UPcr/>fi}il _Q onffcvrnrtelhtnyt//'
Mar/"?
Yards da/nrd 
fí uns - Fa 55 e s
¡Yesfmmbter - 3o/
Carne y/e - ¿ ¡7 //
rurrblt

---------------------------------------------------

THE TARTAN5
“Just Right” Clothing
For College Men
Suits $13.50 to $35.00 
Overcoats $ 15.00 to $45.00
“Just Right” Clothing comes direct from maker to wearer. Therefore 
saving the middlemen’s profit. This item is worthy of consideration.
McCREERY & CO.
Wood and Sixth Street
GEO. L. KOPP & CO.
Drawing Instruments and Material ARTISTS’ MATERIALS Blue Print Papers and Blue Printing.We repair Drawing InstrumentsHYDROMETERS THERMOMETERS ANEROID BAROMETERS 
704 Smithfield Street, Pittsburgh, Pa.
What Did He Mean?
A NEW STUDENT ROOM
Wanted by the M. M. C. S. Students 
—One Student room, where they can have 
small Club meetings or where any girls or 
or group of girls can gather together and 
talk things over without disturbing other 
girls, or themselves being disturbed. With 
the growth of the school, it seems that 
every available nook and corner have had 
to be used either for class rooms or for 
locker rooms. Even the faculty had to 
give up part of their parlors. We do ap­
preciate the fact that it is almost impossi­
ble, but we hope that this will be one of 
those times when the impossible happens. 
We feel assured that when the new build­
ings get up, there will certainly be two or 
three of these rooms for our comfort.
Don’t worry girls, that large new edition 
of The Tartan is coming—and that very 
soon. We feel assured that every girl 
will spend a nickel on Tartan day—that 
she will even walk home if necessary for 
the sake of buying a Tartan.
THE GUILD TEA
On Monday afternoon from the hours 
•of three to five, the members of the Guild 
presided at a tea in “The Little House” 
on the fourth floor. The writer says from 
three to five because those were the hours 
scheduled upon the invitation, but it must 
be said that it was much later than five, 
before all the guests could be persuaded 
to leave.
This was really the first occasion that 
the members of the Guild had met to have 
just an informal, jolly good time, and it 
proved to be such a success that it was 
decided to have a series of such affairs 
throughout the year.
A great many of the new girls were there 
and if any of them had any vague fears 
that they would not become acquainted 
they were happily disappointed, for such 
was not the case at this tea. Little cards 
were given to each one with the words,
“I am ---------. Who are you?” printed
at the top and within ten minutes everyone 
knew everyone else. After that the fun 
began and lasted until time for the “eats” 
which certainly did strike the spot.
Then someone suggested dancing in 
the “Gym” and with one sudden rush 
The Little House was left deserted, and 
the gym was filled with peals of laughter 
and the strains of “Everybody’s Two 
Step” etc.
The next tea will be held on the first 
Monday in December and it is to be hoped 
that even more of the girls will be there 
then. It has not been definitely decided 
whether we will sew, since it will be most 
time for Christmas presents, or not, but 
everybody come and give a boost for the 
sake of sweet charity!
HEARD IN THE M. M. C. S. HALLS
“Hello! Turkey!” 
“Hello! Ikey!” 
“Hey! Fat!”
“Ho! Dodds?” 
“Hi! Rib'”
The “Junior Household Economics” 
have already (since Friday afternoons 
Chemistry Class) used up their entire
breakage fee, and in fact, are quite a little 
“in the hole.” They have decided to 
start in on the Sophomore breakage now, 
and even things up a little, j
The M. M. C. S. girls wish to thank 
the “Athletic Association” and also “Red” 
Jones for the privilege of coming to the 
foot ball games this year free of charge. 
We have enjoyed this privilege to its 
fullest extent.
HEARD IN THE BIOLOGY 
LABORATORY
Grace Little: “Pseudopodia are false
feet.”
Miss Hayden: “Yes, such as cork legs.”
THE JUNIORS’ VISIT TO THE 
“FAMOUS BISCUIT CO.”
Well, to begin in the beginning, we all 
arrived at the home of the “Famous Bis­
cuit Company,” shortly after one o’clock 
and when the guide arrived we were taken 
up in the freight elevator to the “dough- 
room.” Girls! did you ever see so much 
dough in all of your life? Huge bins of it 
and sheets of it too rolling out in seemingly 
endless quantities to be cut into crackers 
and cookies. And weren’t the ovens 
queer? They were just like big “ferris 
wheels.”
Next we went down to the icing depart­
ment. Oh, didn’t that marshmallow 
look good? And there were heaps and 
heaps of little cakes hanging up to dry all 
covered with pink and white icing. Then 
we went down to the packing department 
and saw boxes of all sorts of the biscuits, 
cookies and crackers that were made there. 
We girls were allowed to “neb” to our 
hearts content as they have no secrets 
like some factories do.
We had a delightful time and enjoyed 
our interesting trip very much. The 
M.' M. C. S. girls want to thank the 
“Famous Biscuit Company” for their 
courtesy and for the boxes of crackers.
THEATRE PARTY 
THIRD YEAR NIGHT SCIENCE
“The time rate of change of scenes” that 
elapses ere the serious Third Year Night 
Science Class was changed into a merry 
making crowd in front of the footlights of 
the “Boys’ Favorite” Theater was infinites- 
imally small on Election Night and so 
may be neglected. No summation by 
integral calculus, or the like, was needed 
to count the number present, for that 
nearly all were present, could easily be 
seen without the aid of a powerful “giant- 
scope.”
The crowd did surely make merry and 
made clear to all that although we are 
“Progressives,” “we” elected Woodrow 
Wilson. The “teracsa” committee which 
works while others sleep, arranged for 
“eats” in a nearby restaurant and for in­
formation leading to the disappearance of 
“eats” ask the head waiter.
As morning was at hand and we heard 
that our candidate was elected, someone 
cried “Is everybody happy?” and back 
came the answer “Yes.” “Is anybody 
downhearted?” Back came the cry “No.” 
Then “let’s go home” was echoed and the 
crowd left via various routes for “Slum- 
berland.”
She: “Do you prefer an ugly woman with 
brains, or a pretty woman without any?” 
He: “Madam, I prefer present company 
to either.”
(And she is still wondering exactly what 
he meant.)—The Tatler.
The Portrait Discouraged Him
Once at a dinner Henry Ward Beecher 
told his sister, Mrs. Harriet Beecher Stowe, 
that her “Uncle Tom’s Cabin” had been 
translated into Italian by a monk; and that 
a letter full of adulation had been received 
from him, in which he stated that if he 
could kiss the woman who wrote the book 
he would die happy. Mr. Beecher then 
added:
“Well, I sent him a portrait of you, Har­
riet, and nothing has been heard of him 
since.”
One for the Doctor
There lives in Washington, according to 
Lippincott's Magazine, a doctor and a min­
ister who, although great friends, delight 
to exchange repartee on the subject of their 
respective professions.
When they met one day, the minister 
said that he was “going to call on old Mr. 
Cunningham,” and asked (for the old man 
was a patient of the doctor), “Is he much 
worse?”
The physician gravely replied:
“He needs your help more than mine.” 
Taken off his guard, the minister ex­
claimed, anxiously “Poor fellow! Is it as 
bad as that?”
“Yes; he is suffering from insomnia.”— 
Youth's Companion.
Mr. Brown’s Failure
Instructor in Public Speaking. “What 
is the matter with you, Mr. Brown? Can’t 
you speak any louder? Be more enthu­
siastic. Open your mouth and throw your­
self into it!”
Mrs. Brown (nudging Mr. Brown, who 
snores with his mouth open): “William!
You’d make less noise if you’d keep your 
mouth shut.”
Mr. Brown (only half-awake): “So’d
you!”—Selected.
R. S. DAVIS & CO.
Booksellers 
416 Wood St., and Diamond
Technical Books
Fred’s
Where all the Tech boys eat
Atwood and Forbes
Fred S. Suddaby
Mellon National^ Bank
514 Smithfield Street 
409 Fifth Avenue
Capital and Surplus $7,600,000
THE ST A NDARD OF EXCELLE NCE
Mac DONALD’S
Candies and Ice Cream Sodas, Dainty Lunch. 
Tables for Ice Cream. Fancy Boxes, Baskets, 
Flavors Etc.
208 Sixth Street, Pittsburgh, Pa.
Ice Cream and Cakes
Sold to Tech Students at special rates 
See us about the “eatin’s” for your'doin’s'
THE HALLER BAKERY
3618 Forbes Ave., Iroquois Block
SAILOR 
Tailor
Peoples Bank Building 
Pittsburgh, Pa.
“Patronize cur Advertisers.”

---------------------------------------------------

6THE TARTAN
^,C!iy 0fl?ce: East En ' Office;631 Penn Avenue S. Highland Ave. nd Baum Street
• •' ?'• ) •
Oswald Werner & Sons Co.
Pittsburgh’s Oldest and Largest Dyeing and Cleaning Works
New Private Branch Exchange. Call Hiland 1138 
Main Office and Works: Cor* Bryant, St*CIair and Mellon Sts.
HOTEL SCHENLEY
PITTSBURGH, PA.
Under the Management of the Schenley Hotel and Restaurant Company 
Roman H Heyn, President
ROOM RATES $2.00 PER DAY AND UPWARDS
Practically all the functions of the Carnegie Institute of Technology are 
held at the Schenley. Our rates have been considerably reduced, and we have 
engaged Mr. Widmer, the chef of the Union Restaurant, to be in charge of our 
kitchen department; Mr. Widmer having been at the Union Restaurant for 10 
years, is perfectly acquainted with the wants and demands of our local support­
ers, and we are therefore in the best position to take care of YOUR trade at 
reasonable rates. phone 285 schenley
Laundried
SCIENCE WINS TROPHY
Continued from page 1.
to maintain our championship standing.
The relay race was the most interesting 
event of the day. The lead changed 
among the three schools during the first 
three laps, but Humble ran a strong race 
on the last lap and brought the Science 
team from last place to first by a good mar­
gin.
The summaries:—
100-yard dash—Won by Humble, S.; 
second, Thompson, I.; third, Lappan, D. 
Time 11 2-5.
220-yard dash—Won by Dunseath, I.; 
second, Langfelter, D.; third, Miller, I.: 
and Fulton, S. Time 27 2-5.
440-yard run—Won by Berry, D.; sec­
ond, Wilson, S.; third, Ginsberg, S. Time 
62 2-5.
880-yard run—Won by Swartz, S.; sec­
ond, Spiegel, D.; third, Todd, I. Time 
2:29 3-5,
120-yard hurdles—Won by King, S.; 
second, Berry, D. Time 19J^.
220-yard hurdles—Won by King, S.; 
second, Sweeny, I.; third, Roberts, I. 
Time 32 4-5.
Mile run—Won by Humble, S.; second, 
Hines, S.; third, Boyer, D. Time 6:04.
Two mile run—Won by Williams, D.; 
second, Montgomery, I.; third, Weld, D. 
Time, 12:34.
4-lap relay race—Won by Science (Cos­
tello, Schumacher, Fulton and Humble); 
second, Industries (Thompson, Sweeny, 
Stine, Dunseath); third, Design (Lang­
felter, Boyer, Spiegle, Lappan). Time, 
3:03 3-5.
Discus throw—Won by Daugherty, S.; 
second, Parke, I.; third, Stine, I. Dis­
tance, 87 feet 3 inches.
Hammer throw—Won by Daugherty, 
S.; second, Parke, I.; third, Robbin,I. 
D'stance, 72 feet 1 inch.
Shot put—Won by Daugherty, S.; sec­
ond, Parke, I.; third, Stine, I. Distance 
32 feet 2 inches.
High jump—Won by King, S.; second, 
Wright, S.; third, Stine, I., and Berry, D. 
Height, 5 feet 2J4 inches.
Broad jump—Won by King, S.; second, 
Wright, S.; third, Parke, I. Distance, 
18 feet 1 inch.
Pole vault—Won by Wright, S.; second, 
Babel. S.; third, Reynolds, S. Height 9 
feet 7 inches.
PROF. FERRAND BEGINS LEC­
TURE COURSE
Last Friday Prof. Ferrand began a 
series of talks on the grand prix which 
he plans to continue weekly throughout 
the year. Mr. Ferrand’s lectures on the 
Grand Prix last year included merely a 
quick study of the different prol lems that 
had been given, but he hopes this year to 
devote more time to a definite study of 
entourage and details of plan This 
course to which Mr. Ferrand will devote 
one hour each week, is open to all students 
in Architecture, although it is a require­
ment for the Class “A” men only.
SCIENCE PLEBES WIN
On Tuesday, November 5, the Science 
Plebes defeated the Design School team 
by the decisive score of 20-0.
A large crowd was present and made 
their presence known by their rooting;
the Plebes, under cheer leader “Hopalong” 
Humble, being especially noticeable. Be­
tween halves the rooters pee-raded on the 
field.
Hal Wright and Feick starred for the 
Plebes the former being on the receiving 
end of a number of cleverly executed for-
ward passes from Daugherty.Jones, for
Design playeda good game.
Line up:—
PlebesDesign
Farr.................L. E................Bearinger
King, F..........L. T...................Hitchens
Merrill.............L. G...................Kingsley
Costella...............C..........................Crump
Tyler.................. R. G...................Withers
Matlick...........R. T..................Walrath
Wright, H.R. E...................Einstein
McCarter............Q...........................Finkel
Wright, W......R.Ti...................... Jones
Feick...................L. H........................Berry
Daugherty...........F............................Marks
Touchdowns — Daugherty, Merrill, 
Douglass. Goals from touchdown— 
Daugherty 2. Time of quarters 8 minutes. 
Referee Blair, Umpire Robinson, Head 
linesman Park, Timekeeper Welch.
Substitutions—Fagan for King, Traut- 
man for Tyler, McDonald of Merrill, 
Butler for Matlick, McFarlin for McCar­
ter, Lane for W. Wright, Douglass for Farr.
Not Perfect
A horse dealer was showing a horse to a 
prospective buyer. After running back 
and forward for a few minutes, he stopped 
and said to the buyer: “What do you
think of his coat? Isn’t he a dandy?” 
The buyer, noticing the horse had the 
heaves, replied: “Yes, I like his coat all
right, but I don’t like his pants.”
Gauging the Credulity
. “Speaking of that bear you killed.” 
“What about it?”
“I notice you modify its size to your 
various listeners.”
“Well, I never tell a man more than I 
think he’ll believe.”—Louisville Courier.
A Colored Shakespeare
Ole Mammy Lize was dusting the South­
ern woman’s .drawing-room. She came to 
a small bronze bust of Shakespeare and 
began carefully going over him with her 
rag. “Mis’ Juliet, chile, who am dis yere 
gemmun?” “That is Shakespeare, Lize; a 
wonderful poet who died centuries ago.” 
“Dat him, miss? Lo , I’se don hyea o’ 
Mistah Shakespeare a lot ob times. Every­
body seems to know him. ’Deed, I done 
hyear so much ’bout him dat I alius thought 
he was a white gemmun.”
Slow Progress
“Could you do something for a poor old 
sailor?” asked the seedy-Iooking wanderer 
at the gate.
“Poor old sailor?” echoed the lady at 
work at the tub.
“Yes’m. I followed the water for six­
teen years.”
“Well,” said the woman, after ;i critical 
look, “you certainly don't look as if you ever 
caught up with it.” Then she resumed her 
labors.
“Patronize our Advertisers.”
“All new arrivals are washed,” explained 
the warden of the prison.
“And if they make a fuss?”
“Then they are ironed.”
“Lady,” said Meandering Mike, “would 
you lend me a cake of soap?”
“Do you mean to tell me you want soap!” 
“Yes’m. Me partner’s got de hiccups 
an’ I want to scare him.”—Selected.
Had the Candidate Habit
Senator Bourne was talking about a con­
firmed office-seeker.
“His little son,” said Senator Bourne, 
“looked up from his history lesson one night 
and said to his mother:
“‘Mother, if anything shoufd.happen to 
the King of England who would be king? 
“ ‘The Prince of Wales.’
“ ‘If the Prince of Wales should die, 
who would be king then?’
“The mother hesitated. She didn’t really 
know. Then the boy interrupted her. 
‘Well,’ he said w’th a sigh, ‘anybow I hope 
father wTon’t try for it.’ ”
Once Was Enough
A farmer riding on a certain railroad 
asked the conductor on a recent trip: “How 
often do you kill a man on this ’ere line?” 
“Just once,” replied the conductor.
Wunderlich Co.
Hatters and Mens Furnishers
3723 Torbes SI. Cor. Oakland Ave. 
—Nearest Teclv—
BUTTER, EGGS,
COFFEE, TEAS,
POULTRY, ETC. 
ALL AT RIGHT PRICES
Oakland Butter Market
3714 FORBES STREET Phone 710 Schenley. We Deliver
Yoang Men
arc cordially invited to join the Bellefield 
Presbyterian Church Chorus Choir. See 
MR. MAYHEW 
at the church, cor. 5th Ave. and Bellefield Street Saturday evenings at- 7:30.
THE SCHENLEY FARMS
Pittsburgh’s Restricted Residence District
THE SCHENLEY FARMS CO.
1412 Farmers Bank Bldg.
Enterprise Pressing CompanyCleaners and Dyers
Perfect Work in Ladies’ Children’s and 
Household Work 
Oriental Rugs and Draperies a Specialty 
203 Highland Bldg. Pittsburgh, Pa.
Phones: Office: 449 Hiland Works: 4912 Hiland)
JUNIOR SMOKER
VT
HE JUNIOR SCIENCE and Design Smoker will be 
held at the Hotel Schenley, Saturday evening, Nov­
ember 16. Things start at 8:39. Assessment, 50
cents.
Your class spirit should bring you, if not, cut a show 
and come for a good time anyway.

---------------------------------------------------

men will wear corduroy trousers, and the True Values B & B True Values
men’s hats
The “Bronx”—the hat that is most worn in New York—correct hat for Winter wear—rough finish, soft felt—high creased crown effect with curl brim, match silk band —Tan, Brown, Grey, Blue, $3.00.Men’s new Soft Hats, $1.50 to $5.00.
men’s clothing
Persian Collar Winter Overcoats, $37.50 to $75.00.Mackinaw Norfolk Reefers for men and young men, $6.50 to $9.00.Mackinaw Heavy Ulsters,$25.00.% length medium weight top coats, $20.00 to $55.00.
Boggs & Buhl,Pittsburgh, Penn'a.
THE TARTAN 7
*--------------------------------------------------+
« BUREAU OF RECOMMEN- ( 
DATIONS.
I+—................................—.........................«*
Structural steel draftsman, capable of 
taking the specifications and general draw­
ings as prepared by architects, and detail­
ing structural work for buildings. With 
contracting company in Erie, Pa. Pros­
pects good.
Chemist: routine analysis on brass al­
loys. $50 per month.
Clerk—with some knowledge of steno­
graphy. In engineering concern.
Designer on steam heating apparatus. 
For firm in West Newton, Pa. Salary 
approximately $125 per month.
Cost and stock accounting. Opening 
for a young man with a forging company 
in Northumberland, Pa.
General office work in cost department 
¦of machine company in the Pittsburgh 
district. $50 per month.
Salesmen wanted by concern manufac­
turing typewriters. Pittsburgh district.---------o---------
The old system of using a heated 
iron and dirty cloth presses the grime 
and dirt into your garments. Our 
sanitary machine steams it all out, and 
removes permanently the dirt, pers­
piration, odor and grime. See Shu­
man the Dry Cleaner, 3911 Forbes 
street.
---------------o---------------
INTERCOLLEGIATE NOTES
A course in Scandinavian is included 
in the curriculum at the University of 
Minnesota.
Women excelling in athletics in Kansas 
University, will be awarded “K’s” by the 
Women’s Athletic Association.
Twenty-one men of Western Reserve 
qualified in the first preliminary debate try­
outs held last Wednesday. There are only 
two old men upon the squad.
The Freshmen at Reserve committed 
an unpardonable sin last week by raising 
their flag to the top of the campus flag 
pole. The halyards were cut, and it re­
quired the services of a steeple-jack to 
remove the offending “rag.”
“The Sun of O-Gun” is the rather uni­
que title of the play which will be present­
ed this year by the graduating class of 
Washington Universiity. The produc­
tion, including the music and lyrics, is the 
work of students in the University.
Michail Doeraz, a Greek, graduate from 
a college in Constantinople, has entered 
the University of Pennsylvania. He is 
now playing on the Freshman football 
team at that institution. In Greece he 
was a famous wrestler; he puts the shot 
forty-four feet. In 1908, he took second 
place for the javelin throw at the Olympic 
games.
Indiana University Seniors have 'de­
cided upon unique cla^s insignia. The
women, will be adorned with Mackinaw coats.
A glass building in which not only 
rabbits, guinea pigs, but also semi-trop­
ical and foreign animals will be kept, has 
added greatly to the interest of the zoology 
work at Wisconsin. Only three or four 
similar places exist in this country.
Class scraps take a great variety of 
forms in different colleges. Syracuse has 
some of the most unique kinds in the country.
The flour fight is perhaps the most 
interesting for a spectator to watch. The 
Freshmen and Sophs line up at the ends 
of the football field. At the pistol shot, 
they rush out and soak each other with 
small sacks of flour for about an hour. 
There is no decision given, and when the 
hour is up the fight is all over and every­
body is satisfied.
Another of similar nature is the mo­
lasses fight, which consists of trying to 
carry small mugs of molasses the length 
of the football field, through the opposi­
tion furnished by the other class. When a 
Freshie and a Soph get stuck together 
the fun is at its greatest.
The fiancees control the gridiron and 
the husky wearers of the moleskins are no 
longer masters of their own fate. Cupid’s 
pull on their heart strings is inevitable 
and they cannot but yield. Such is the 
wail set up at Wittenberg College. Al­
ready three members of this year’s varsity 
have signed a life contract.
A “Classical Club” is one of the new 
organizations in Miami University circles.
The new Ohio State Directory shows 
3303 students enrolled, of which 3077 
come from Ohio. 1035 come from Co­
lumbus alone; Cleveland sends 75, Dayton 
60, Toledo 59 and Cincinnati 35. Thirty- 
two states and eighteen foreign countries 
are represented.
Incandescent lights have been installed 
on Ohio Field, to enable the football squad 
to practice after dark.
The hardest part of a coach’s work is to 
find words which will adequately describe 
to a man a certain fault. In the crew 
room at Columbia large mirrors are rigged 
so the men may see the errors of their ways.
The latest Harvard publication to make 
its appearance is the Harvard Musical 
Review, the first number of which for 
October 1912 has just appeared.
The purpose of the editors is to furnish 
its readers with comments on new and 
vital developments in music, and to pub­
lish impartial criticisms of concerts and 
performances in Boston and New York. 
It will give special attention to music 
produced by Harvard men, and will have 
articles by graduates distinguished in mus­
ic. There is also included a department 
for correspondence from graduates who 
are studying music abroad.
— Harvard Alumni Bulletin.
In a recent investigation of the pawn 
shops on Park Row, New York City, a 
number of fraternity pins were found.
The prices paid for these pins range from 
75 cents to $10.00. The fraternity men 
scout the idea that the original owners 
found it necessary to put their pins in 
pawn, but believe that the pins were 
stolen or lost in most cases.
As a penalty for flunking at the Uni­
versity of Colorado, students are required 
to wear small blue caps with green buttons.
The first plutocrat to be initiated into 
Phi Beta Kappa is Webb Vanderbilt. 
He is said to be the first millionaire’s son 
at Yale to be elected to this national 
scholastic fraternity.—Buchtelite.
An interesting bibliographical rarity re­
cently added to the College library is a copy 
of “Timas,” a book of hymns translated 
into the language of the Nex Perce Indians 
and published at Lapwai by the Clear­
water Press. This book of thirty-two 
pages containing twenty-seven hymns was 
prepared by the American Mission to the 
Indians, and was printed in 1842. It is 
the fifth book printed west of the Rocky 
Mountains. So far as is known, there are 
only two copies besides this one in exist- 
ance. It was brought back by Marcus 
Whitman, returning from his famous trip 
to the coast and was presented to Dr. 
Dudley Allen, of Cleveland, who gave it 
to Mr. Root.—Oberlin Review.
In order to put a stop to the snobbish­
ness existing among underclassmen, the 
faculty, of Yale have made provisions that 
all Freshmen must hereafter room in the 
new dormitories on the campus. York 
street, for the first time in years is desert­
ed. On this street, many pro va te dormi­
tories existed, which had come to be only 
the homes of the effete rich, places in 
which were handed down from year to 
year. These are all a thing of the past 
now.
Wittenberg has followed the suit of 
many Ohio colleges by adopting a college 
emblem. The design adopted by the com­
mittee in charge is a heavy “W” over a 
“C,” with a solid base. The button will 
be made of silver. A newr college song 
has also been adopted.
Lafayette College has an enrollment of 
about 550.
Case School of Applied Science has re­
cently organized a Wireless Club. The 
Club expects to erect a new aerial within 
a short time.
Plans for the Gilman Building, the 
main building at the new Johns Hopkins 
University on the Homewood Estate near 
Baltimore, has been approved by the 
Board of Trustees and the faculty of the 
University will soon be placed in the hands 
of the contractors.
“Patronize our Advertisers.”
Stop at
STAUFT’S
News—Stationer—Tobacco
3702 Forbes Street, Pittsburgh, Pa.
DRINK
Duquesne
The Coffee that suits 35c lb.
#eo. H. ^tebenson & Co.
606 Wood St., Downtown Highland and Center Aves., E. E.
* * t Students, Attention! Jt
t *^ When presenting your Tartan coupon
# at our store, do not fail to give us your & 
f-' name and address.
¦§* “Something doing later on.” #
! C. A. HEIMERT’S I
^ Where all the Tech Boys go. ||
4$. To the Progressive “Men’s Wear Store” 4} 
4* of Oakland ft#4§. 3614 Forbes St. Iroquois Block 4** *
Billiard Tables,Office Desks,Butcher Outfits,Store Fixtures
S. DELP’S SONS
2219 5th Avenue Cor. 4th & Liberty
“Patronize our Advertisers.”
“A NATIONAL INSTITUTION”Browning, King & Co.
CLOTHING, FURNISHINGS AND HATS FOR ME.N, BOYS AND CHILDREN 
439=141 WOOD STREET

---------------------------------------------------

8THE TARTAN
Theaters Week of Nov, 18. | 
I II i——--------———¦———+
ALVIN-'-Sam Bernard in a new musical 
farce, “All For the Ladies,” will be the 
attraction at the treater next week. Ber­
nard is funny to those who like dialect 
comedians,and he usually carries an elabor­
ate production,
NIXON—John Drew will make his an­
nual visit to this theater in a new play, 
“The Perplexed Husband,” said to be 
better suited to Drew than any play he 
has had in recent years.
GRAND—Blanche Walsh, the emotional 
actress will be seen in a new playlet, 
“Countess Nadine,” as a headline feature 
of the usual variety of vaudeville.
DUQUESNE —The Stock Company will 
produce a comedy drama, “The Seven 
Sisters," in which Charles Cherry starred
several seasons ago.
LYCEUM—“Alias Jimmy Valentine,” 
the deteetive play that was so popular in 
the higher priced theaters for two seasons 
past will come to this house.
His Grandmother 111
Vice President Sherman sent a page on the 
Senate floor on a recent Saturday to ask 
Senator Pomerene to come up and speak to 
him. When the Ohioan arrivd at the desk, 
the Vice-President looked at him sym­
pathetically, and said:
“Senator, I called you to ask you if you 
would mind presiding over the Senate this 
afternoon. My grandmother is very ill.” 
“Indeed! What is her temperature?” 
asked Senator Pomerene, sympathetically.
“Yesterday it was 3 to 1,” responded the 
Vice-President. • '•¦Then he stepped down and made a beeline 
for the bleachers, leaving the senator hold­
ing the bag.
Also Lacking
Head Work
four hours, I will come up and kick you 
downstairs. I always keep my promises.” 
O. Henry promptly sent back the note, 
“Dear Bill: If I did all my work with my 
feet, I’d keep my promises, too.”
A hungry typhoid convalescent demanded 
food and was given a small dishful of tapioca 
pudding. He ate it greedily.
“Now,” said he, “that I have feasted, I 
should like to read. Miss Jenkins, will you 
bring me a postage stamp?”
Not Fiction
A Safe Solution
The doctor told him he needed carhohy- 
drates, proteids, and, above all, something 
nitrogenous. The doctor mentioned a long 
list of foods for him to eat. He staggered 
out and wabbled to a restaurant.
“How about beefsteak?” he asked the 
waiter. “Is that nitrogenous?”
The waiter didn’t know.
“Are fried potatoes rich in carhohydrates, 
or not?”
The waiter couldn’t say.
“Well, I’ll fix it,” declared the poor man, 
in despair. “Bring me a large plate of 
hash. ”—Washington Herald.
Breathing
A gentleman and his wife who were 
both nearsighted went Atlantic City 
not long since. When, they came down 
to breakfast the wife picked up the menu 
card, but after a moment’s effort pushed 
it over to her husband, exclaiming as she 
did so, “You’ll have to choose for both 
of us. I left my glasses upstairs:”
He took the card and began to fumble in 
his pockets—vainly it proved, for he had 
forgotten his also. Turning to the impassive 
and irreproachable darkey behind his chair, 
he said:
“Will you please read it for us, waiter? 
We have both forgotten our glasses.” 
“’Deed, Ah’ lak to ’blige yo’, sur, but 
Ah ain’t got no educashun neither!”
The following is a copy of a composi­
tion on “Breathing,” written by a boy in a 
Yorkshire school:
“Breath is made of air. If it wasn’t for 
our breath, we should die when we slept. 
Our breath keeps the life agoing through 
our nose when we sleep. Boys that stay in 
a room all day should not breathe. They 
should wait till they get outdoors. Boys in 
a room make carbonicide. Carbonicide is 
poisoner than mad dogs. A heap of sol­
diers was in a black hole in India, and a 
carbonicide got in and killed nearly every 
one afore the morning. Girls kill the 
breath with corsets that squeezes the dia­
gram. Girls can’t run or holler like boys 
because their diagram is squeezed too much.’
A Good Reason
O. Henry, beloved by every editor in the 
country, sometimes was the bane of their 
lives, but no one could harbor wrath against 
him. The humorist had promised to write 
a story for a big magazine, which failed to 
arrive. Finally the editor went to 0. Hen­
ry’s apartment and sent up a curt note: 
“If I don’t have that story within twenty-
What a Question!
It was a broiling hot day, and the woman 
who came rushing up to the railway sta­
tion all out of breath was obviously anxious.
“Oh,” she exclaimed excitedly to the sta­
tion-master, “has the next train gone yet?”
P. Ludebuehl & Son
Penn and Frankstowr, E. E.
“GEE=WHIZ,==at $4.00”
one of our 40 NEW FALL STYLES in 
Men s Boots. This is strictly a young 
man s boot, with lots of style, and good 
fitting qualities.
TBuilt for us by a famous Brockton Man­
ufacturer.
Step in Our Men’s Department
The Father: “What is that book you are 
reading, my son?”
The Son: “It’s a story of a man who in­
vested his money in a western gold mine 
and lost every cent of it.”
“Oh, that’s all right, my boy. I was 
afraid you’d get ahold of a work of fiction!” 
—Yonkers Statesman.
Every service a bank may render its 
customers is performed by
The Oakland 
Savings & Trust Co.
Iroquois Block 
Cheerfully, promptly and on the 
best of terms.
Capital $200,000.00
Surplus and Profits $200,000.00
Deposits over $1,300,000.00
YOU’RE NEXT
Tech Sanitary Barber Shop
Harry F. Van Curen, Prop.
Cor. Craig and Forbes Street 
Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania
Sporting Goods, Cutlery, College 
Pennants, Banners & Pillou) Tops. 
HUKILL=HUNTER CO.
414 Wood St.
ALWAYS BUYZATEK CHOCOLATEMORE ALMONDSSWEETER MILK
SMOOTHER CHOCOLATE
at the beanery” and everywhere
Come to us 
to be suitedBell Phone 
Schenley 2826=J
SKIBO PRICES
Trousers Pressed - - $ .15
Suits “ - ... 50
Suits Cleaned and Pressed - .1.00
Repairing, Dyeing, etc., at moderate 
prices.
University Tailoring Co.
S. F. Pacyna, Prop.
3711 5th Ave. 
McDougall’s Dancing Classes
Shady and Penn Avenues
Next Saturday evening, Harvest Home Party. Classes Wednesday, and Saturday. 8:00 p. m.
Wood and Fifth Avenues,
Mondays, Tuesdays and Fridays.
“Patronize our Advertisers.”
The little boy came out of the room in 
which his father was tacking down a carpet. 
He was crying lustily.
“Why, Tommy, what’s the matter?” 
asked his mother.
“P-p-papa hit his finger with the h-ham 
mer,” answered Tommy.
“Well, you should not cry at a thing like 
that,” said his mother. “Why didn’t you 
laugh?”
“I—I did,” sobbed Tommy.
Why Not
Irrcii crick’s
Pittsburg’s Finest Victrola Parlors
For All Your
VICTRXDLA
Shopping
No matter how large or how small your purchase—you receive the 
same careful courteous treatment. The unmatchahle Frederick service
always yours.
Attend Our Noon-Time Recitals, Third Floor Auditorium
W. F. Frederick Piano Co,
Knabe and Hardman P.anos; Angelus, Kna‘:e Anjekis and Autotone Placers
635=637 Smithfield Street
