nwppi
yen must be at liberty to 
M j in print whatever they 
j^ye in mind to say, pro- 
vided it wrongs no one. .3rti3 ÖTartvedie 3Tatrtati
Today's Editorials 
Hail and Farewell
- _CHARLEB A. DANA :¦ On 'With the Carniva! '
CARNEGIE INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY, PITTSBURGH, PA,TUESDAY, MAY 7, 1935
2200 Students Drop Cares For Spring Carnival Celebration
Three Events 
Scheduled For 
Opening Day
Friday Program Includes 
football, Sweepstakes, 
And Skate Derby
yeenmusstba anult 
tiromonoeM jpwh
Two Teams to Be Chosen 
From Vareity Squad 
Play in Bowl
Three big events, intended ..to 
makè. tbe 1936 Spring Carnival the 
»St program ever presented,
»held on.'Friday.
Two teams chosen rrom among the mombei’6 of the varsity foot­ball learn will stage a regulation jrld game tin the Carnegie Boni. - gume is scheduled for 2:00
o'clock.
Coach Harpster promises nothing 'g*etacu)ar. But the exhibition fflll'be no setup. Definite. lineups v'D) not be known until game time. This .tussel‘closes the.spring train- fag.âcii vJtJeè of the' Carnegie dquad.
‘Something new on the program will be a roller skate derby lor the cfreda. The skaters will .assem- the paved street running through the campus.The derby will be run as lay. Any .girls' dormitory, sorority,
; can be
supplied with skates.I To mako suitable plans for the derby the conimittee .aeka .tiiatieach organization report the number'of entrants to the Student council of­fice. This information must be turned in not later than May 1. Faculty members will. vie with udents in the traditional mush- all game on the ball fleld Saturday Unique umpiring and unusual feats
mate» wlU be M^'.Hànnüûlf i Davia, Dr. Marks,-Director Jones, Dr. Gregg. • Mr.- Bright,- and other prominent faculty'members.On the shoulder's of Kent Shatter: of the pattern ehopwlll fall tlie burden of the umpiring.- The student team. Uneiip is not completed but it will:be composed entirely qf eenloré/: , . ,' Preliminary vswëépst&kes > rates will be run in themornlng. „ ' '
Thistle Off Press
In Three Weeks
thV-'fififrds'; 6f 'the' Graver, and the Thistle’ staff has finished reading the proofs of the lexuiai matter. The iook Ja being “ ted at the plaht. of the Herblck Held Company of Pittsburgh. Carnegie’s flrat Thistle queen baa- been selected from a ;Jarge: group o* uomlueee. A full -'-page 'will bedevoted to this new feature. The. election was made by . P. Sands Brunner, illustrator ¿nd - artist- for. The Saturday. Evening Pget, The - ... • and
CONTROL TARTAN DESTINY
Clifton P; Boutelle, left,' and Jerome E chosen editor and bus(ness: manager, r
New Tartun Staff 
Announced at Annual 
Banquet Last Monday
Clifton Boutelle Named 
Editor, J. E. Kappel 
Business Mgr»
EXECUTIVE BOARD 
MAKES TWO CHANGES
News- Editor Is Elevated: 
Women’s and Feature.
: Editors Combined \
^:jGlifUnr.--p^Bl)i>^Ue-.^^;popsrt'- 
' lent of iPriiiting, wa^ named edi- 
)r-in-chief of the Tartan for the 
>mlng school .year at the annual- 
staff banquet held last Monday .Eve­
ning in the Carnegie Inn. Irving B. 
GlTiber ’36, Department of- Com­
mercial Engineering, will be next 
year’s news; editor, and-'Walter R. 
^d^aonu'ae.tPejj^tmeijt.o^ glint­
ing, will be ^managing editor.' ’ V 
The positron of' feature editor 
combined with that of women’s .ed­
itor, will be tflUed by Emily O. Kra- '36, Department of General Studies. MCEA, editor for the- en­suing . year will. be Rosemary . B. Pierce .'36,. Department of. Secre­tarial: Studies; Evans Cheeaeman 36, Department of Mechanical-En­gineering,-' wa'e - - - named ^aaSiBtant- news-editor, while James' M. ,1 '.36, Department of Works.: Manage-
busihesV staff wilt'b£ heuded: by Jerome. E.. Kappel ’36, Department of- Printing, as busi­ness manager. Rob'ert P. .Greiner 36, Department of Commercial“’- gineeringi will - - -J ‘ ¦s advertising
In the sports department John ¿. Charles 36, Department of Com* (Continued on. Page Four.)
People You Ought to Know...
j Bÿ CUfton P. Boutelle
At the cpronation'-efremomes this- Thiirsdayin tlie Silvan Theater the.;eroTra, eiiiblematie of Cftrnpgie'e Campus Queen, ^fill-ibe. placedr upon* th,e ¿¿^<oi?iMa.dolui..yautriiiot.. She,vcar-. ries on a tradition begun in 1920’when .Cavtiegie first.chose its 
Queen to tule the Spring Carnival.
This year’s Queen is brunet, 5 feet 6 inches tall, ¦weighs 128
Poimda and is a. student in the Be-»- —------------r-----------------^ "Pafiment of Painting and Design.
Jeling her ...Mandolin instead ¿>t. Madolin. • - ' - . ' •'
breaking away from ciratom the Touation ceremony will be' out­ers instead of in the Gymnasium. A formal ‘'crowning’’ Titual is being *TiUen. No-oner knows -yet .just '«at it will be but .the.Queen is looking for a surprise. ’ .Previous Queens .made ttielv lowns. once again \ tradition is woken for the new-.ruler has .'a
ailor-made outfit .of satin: with , a 
w ^acltel- and huge puffy, sleeves. *ot many weeks ago our Queen other honors. • Her. painting 
IS®? ?war^«d the Plttsburgh Asso. f'ated Artists first prize .of $160. *«d .ma}*«. ttfs“oeqmio land wasn't tickled; ‘The painting was entitled . .‘’Winter wndscape’* and looked like , the 
oi a ‘Soho?, - tenement use during a 'snowstorm.' ';- 
?,lct«e (which.ahe sold for S fiollare) led to:. great: things;, •«.was asked to endorse Dame £Kure facial cream, her- picture *8 taken among5 dogs and wati ?*‘0ns a* ¦ -- • • -),s^€dhs i0in? at a county^ fair,' she .will; Wi.i» . aa a prominent ¦arttst- io ìtt» 0 Amona American '-Art* tv..Al>î to top italioti shewàs 
Stolli Carneél^B; Boat’. .bëauUtul
1 Terr nice ;jttd .T*ry
campus she is an activities. Tue girls in1 Forties call her :iyueenies”«-'- She is president
orary, Mortar Board womén’s- sen* lor society, .and Gamma Gamma 
Gamma sorority.' 'vua^ pd sports fan. she loves swim­ming and .tennis. : She. Is crazy about' bicycling. - There' is a touch of tlie tomboy in her. .. She broke her-nose.*playing a, game of foot ball 'with the^bpys of her neighbor- 
hood. . . ' ¦•••¦ Madolln is q.uite ;amazed at - the good'fortune that-has cóme to her. Her staid , opinions have been up-, set. -Everythlng. has come at the «Tame .time. : She. hai been, offered
tion: - But this; summer;.sfie4. plans to. bang, ; around on the Atlantic coast painting. - She has her heart 44't bn 'visiting painters’:paradise, 
Provincetown,.Cape Cod. v. She loves ihe sea. : One year she 'did odd jobs as a deck hand, on a fishing. boat: -Jt.-wia- lots of- fun and gave her a- blg: thrill.; . Tonight she will . speak-------tion,-KQV. ’ astced' her.. ... activities on the Tech. campus. ;v;ifs a great ilrl^é- Will crowii Thursday and’Oiie of the fairest iad most • actire .Queens ; to. eye? wear the satin of Spring : Carnival.
Overdue Bills 
Must Be Paid 
Board Rules
Diplomas to Be Withheld 
From Delinquents 
In Frat. Debts
,ViU-.,fi3i.e^.ity__^e^:^ÿe.' unpaid 
bllis/ they ^liï'nof'b'e. àblei't 
ceive thçlr.diplomas,' according to 
an action passed by., the Executive' 
board .of Carnegie, effective . Sep­
tember-1. 1935.
The school will withhold'the de­
gree diploma 'of • any senior whose 
house- bills.are delinquent, and -whose name Is presented-In a let­ter. from tbe' fraternlty ,to >i-he .D^an of Men, providing the fraternity co­operates with Carnegie by observ­ing published ' regulations concern­ing rushing and Initiation.
The diploma will be released-by the registrar upon receipt of a let­ter from the fmternlty Juvolved, through the Dean of Men, stating that-the party whose-name was presented lias satisfactorily adjust­ed.or settied,-;hJsT3cco!int. . . . „ ,
Debaters to Speak 
Before Safety Valve
Six members of tlie: Carnegie, de­
bating team, coached by Professor. 
Leo T. Lawler, of the Department 
of English, are debating for the 
Safety Valve today on (lie quos- tion: Resolved ' that : the .natlen.4 agree- to. prevent- the- international- ehlpmënt of arms and inunitions.
% Supportlng ' ¿e 'dftirnt'ative' side are Eugene ,M. Simons ’37,- Ellis G. Perry. '37, and Maxwell H. Cohen
L. Vinson ’35.
Qualifications 
Day Program 
Ënds Carnival
Hold Call Day. Exercises 
In Sylvan Theater 
To Begin at 2
HONORARIESTO CALL 
N E W 'M E M B E R S
Queen Vautrinot to Award 
Interiraternity Trophies 
In Exercises Sat;
Tlie annual Qualifications Dny exercises, wlikh will be held Saturday, tho” final day of Spring
and features the inlroduttlon of the new Student Council president, the. presentation of the intramural cups by the Carnival Queen, calls to the lionoraries, and close wild traditional planting of the. tree by Mortar Board.
Carnegie’s Glee Club wiil open the exercises and be followed by the ’introduction -of tho class cC- fleet’s for the ensuing year.by.'Wll- •etlring president
Council president, and conduct the Installation -of. the new- Council, members.
Madolln Vautrinot, queen of' this year’s Spring Carnival, will' award cups to the winners o? the Intertni- ternity Slngi intramural baekeiballi swimming, muehball, ' bridge, and sweepstakes competition. Next' the program will be the announce­ments the Pf Delta Epsilon short story contest -winner by James' M,
ed the contest,
- Following'- .this., ceremony & plaque will be presented mdet-.outatiuidlng. student engineer. of_tbSiy^r.-.Xb,is .pla^ii.e Is, Jh< nual-ayrardioC.-frheta^Taui^nfttl irbfessional engineering-fiater •The welding of :the link
pledge neV members. The Glee Club will again sing, this lime the Alma Mata. Closing -thé- day’s' ex­ercises will be the traditional plant­
ing- of.. a..tree,by^ thé. Ajo^tn'r.;Bpard, women's senior honorary society.
R, O. T. C. Stages 
Annual Review
The-Annual Review of-the R. O. T. C. unit by the President of Car- neg/e--.will take ;place. n.e*tvThurs- day,' May. 9;’at 12:30 p., m., at the Cut The ‘ kiltie Band will take part, and it la' expected' that an even better' appearance -may be made by the entire unit-than that 1 Exhibition Night.
The usual; Thursday Combined Drill at. 11:30 will precede tho President’s Review. How.exer, all R. O. T. C. freshmen who are scheduled normally for class, in Mpp Reading at 9:30 and 11:30 on Friday will report to Lieutenant Burton In Room 346, Industries, and ,wiujie_.'.dismissed ^trpny.thls class in' trtne • to- take' part iu -‘the Review. These men' ^hould all their uniforms to class "and bring to . class -the'' various Items called for on the Map Reading as­signment sheet.
Carnival Tickets 
On SaleTill Thurs.
be obtniued ut tlie Christian
tickets will be sold at the door for uny function.
, The price of the tickets is $3.50. per couple. This in-
B&ccfcanattau: production in the Davis theater, ' the tea dance in Thistle hall Sntur- ' day; and' two subscriptions of.eacb issue of the Carniva-
Tri-Pub Staff 
For .Next Year 
Is Announced
R, McFarlin Appointed 
Editor; A. Gilmore 
Is Bus. Manager
' The announcement of next year’s oiTIcc-rs for Trl*Pub. hns been-mode. ¦TThe new .editdr-in:ch'ief'le Robei't J. jllcFnrlin. '36; buiiness manager, iAddison L.‘ Gilmore ’36^ women's ¡editor, Bliiiobeth W. Collins '30; ad­vertising manager, Edward J- •Kreh, -Jr.. '37: assistant advertis­ing manager, john'F. Gardner ’37.
Mr. McFarlin, Department of -Printing, Is a member of Delta iTau.Deltn, social fraternity, and PI 'Xlpha Delta, honorary printing fra- Itcrnity. He also vice-preBl-.'dent.of the Sopliomoie clasu, Cnl- !lege of. Industries, and ah active ¿member., of the Thistle staff. Mr. Gilmore, Department of Com- .merclal-Englneerlng, Is also a mem­ber Of Delia Tnu Delta, and Is the recently elected president of Stu­dent Council: :Mr. Gilmore is an ac­tive on the Tartan.and Thistle staffs. Miss Co.llins(-Depnrt'>nent.-of aecre-. -.tarlal., Studies, ... was 'a .member. oi Cwene, women’s sophomore honor- flry. and. is-.a member of- Gatnnm d?hlc:Sigma.-isoclaUrso^orltys' jK^ehti..i)«^a,riment o? iM^anleai Engineering, Is'assiiUnt t.rejUuref of Student Council, a.'member of Theta Tau, engineering honorary, and Delta Tau Delta^. fraternity.
Trl-Publlcatlons edits the Fresh-
has' already- been .begun on the "PfebeyBlble’* ajjd'-will- be - contin­ued throughout the summer In or­der that it will he ready for the In--onjlng freshmen.
Carnegie Broadcasts 
Featured Over WWSW
, Annette Rosenson and Earl Wild wiir broad'ca'at a1' Ttuben'steln ’ con- > over-WWSW this afternoon from 1:30 to 1:45.
On Thursday afternoon, Grace Metzgar, pianist, \wlll be featured * om i:30 to 1:45.
The new . edltor-ln-chlef of the Tartan, Clifton P..Boutelle, who will he interviewed by Rosemary Pierce, and Helen Jayne and the Scotch Lassies, will be presented on the Tartan.. Quarter Hour Friday ;
May 3il from 1:30 to 2:15/It TX-lU'be in' the spirit of Memorial; day, and will feature a portion of the Car­negie symphony orchestra and t
Bacchanalians 
Will Present 
Casey. Drama
‘Shining Armour Chosen 
For Annual Spring 
Carnival Show
DAVIS THEATER IS 
SETTING FOR PLAY
Two Evening Performnuces 
Offered;- No Reserved 
Seats Sat. Night
Thle year the nmmnl presentation 
of Ihe Bacchanalians, a feature of 
the Spring Carnival, is u 
“Shining Armour,” by Hoeomary 
Cnsey and B. Iden Puyne. which 
will be given for two evening 
forninnces, Mny 10 and 11 in tho 
Davis' Theater. The performance 
on Friday night is open tc 
general public.On the following 
night it wjlj he repeated as p part 
of the Spring Carnivnl and 
be open only to Carnival ticket 
holders. The performances' 
both nights will bejln at !
s’will. I
.Saturday evening’s performance.
The members of the cast have 
berm cosen from tho Bacchanalian 
society which is an all-school 
gtinlziitlon. Polly Howies '35, De­
partment of. Drama, will play the 
lead In the production. Other •: 
bers of thu cost include -George 
Klttredge ’3G, Janet Patrick ’36, 
Patti’Lltlell '35, Malrfbm. Milligan 
’37, and George Lloyd '3fi. The play 
1, belncr directed by Chester M< 
Wallace.
; The play is a comedy, of con­temporary life >yith .characters who
i ambition. Her sis-
sees the sad plight of .the .family, and resolves to do something about It. The plot becomes quite involved when the sister-in-law discovers that tlie wife is In U>ve with the secretary, while hs:ln turn-is in lové ¦with,. Josephine, ,tfte, .daughter, and 
that tho talented son,’who sliould be devoting his -tlnie to writing, Is occupied with duties Imposed upon him by his mother; The sister-in- law clevely untangles and ranges these complicating forces in the family.
This Is the third play by M1ss. Casey to .be! presented' at: Carnegie. Last year her “Love iB’ Not'Im- portant” wan given at the. Nixons part of the Spring Carnival! and this fall “Glass Houses” was one of the regular .productions of the Department of Drama. - -og. Casey Is a Pittsburgh girl Uo’ attended- school at. Ursullne Academy and the Browneon School in New York. On graduating she to St. Elizabeth college Nn Jersey, tranefering to Barnard In New York. Miss 'Casey estimates it. the piny ¿took, about three inths to-write aiid says, “The choice of the cast for,'Shining Armour’ Is ,a happygirl leads- lle/ng eapficfeily j p.uited for their parts.” .' A special biock ot seats has been reserved for alumni E'riday
The .Queen, Her Maids 'of Honór and Her Çoûtt
Her« are the ten glrl«_and- maid* of honor who .will compr|M'.t)(tf;| rlght, Pattl Llttel, Veronlca Kloos, Marth^ D^mma,, Gwen ' Hadàock; court of Campua Queen MadoUn ,'Vautrinot. The coronation c«rfci£eA)«ÿi| fteeemarle Grentrer. and^Marsaret Grlffln. A formtl.ceremony wlll takewlirtáke place in tha 8ylvaHf Theater Thursday. Low«r row,-frft;to | the pJjcesOf-the-coronatlon extrclsea.
Sylvan Theater Setting For 
Campus Queen Coronation
Introduction, of New, Rites Prepared by Drama 
Student will Feature.Initial Carnival Affair 
Thursday Evening; Scheduled for 9. P. M.
Imiovntion of n nuw cercmony will mark the nnpunl coro­
nation of tho ciun]»us queeu in the Sylvan theater back of the 
College of Fine Arts ut. nine o’clock next Thursday evening. 
Hoy Minet- \15 of the Depuvtmeiit of DiNiinn liat> written-and 
will direct the ueremomy, whieh is to be bused in part on tlie 
procedure ol! tin netual.'royul coronation.
Fentnred. in the ccremony, \vhloh .
“Liveliest College” 
PaperOut Thursday
Thursday afternoon, accord­ing to an announcement made by J. Regis Joyce ’35, editor. Thursday’s Issue will ulso be available for dlstrlbu- ' tion at the Coronation Ball on Thursday ulglil. Each sin­gle ticket to Carniyul events contains a stub which' will'be good for one copy of each is­sue of the Carnivalinn at no- extrn charge. The .Dully. Carnlviillnn may be obtnlnod at nil tJmes At five cents a copy.Fi-Iday. B Issue of Tlie Daily CurnlVAllun will appear on campus in mid-afternoon, and will also be distributed and sold at- the Costume Bnll on ' Friday, tolglit. ¦ On Saturday Tho Daily Carnlvalian wlll be
Copies will alBo be available at the Davis Theater in the evening.
Dorm Party 
.£¿0. Be May 15
Men Will Play Miiahball, 
Supper at Pines
On May 15, the first men’s dormi­
tory stag,party will-^e held at the 
.Pines. Buses, leaving'McQill Hall' 
between.4 and 6 o’clock will furnish 
transportation,
An Inter-rionnitory mushball game 
will be played with a.prlzo going to 
the'winner.- Following thè game the 
students will dine at the Pines. The 
McGill Hall men’s quartet, compos­
ed of Frank Dellnmnno ’35, Steve 
Terebus !36, Erwin. Bauer ’35, and 
Harold . Cqnilng- .’36. will furnish, 
the * ' after'.dinner., entertainment.: 
Another. feature will be-the intro­
duction of all dormitory seniors 
who graduate in June.
Tho committee in charge .of ar^ 
rangements estimates that one hun­
dred and seventy-Ave students will 
attend. ’ This committee consists 
Herbert - lT.g ’35. Charles 
Vukovlch ’3C, Frank Dellamano -35. 
rend Hàvold-.Corùlug -3G.
Tickets for the party maybe pur­
chased .from any ^member of the 
«j&unittee' for .-the pricc-o? one .dol- 
Thls. includes transportation 
to and from the Pines as well as
audience. In.accordance with Scot-.- tln.li tradition, the audience will take a form of oath of allegiance: to tho (iiteeo.
A cliorv.2 of music students-will opttn.the program wltli a. May carol. ns tlie procession approaches .the stn^e mul will also Inad the nudi- enee hi the. singing of the Almu. Mater Tk the queen unii her. court file out to the Coronation hull. Those of the audionco going .to the ball will'JolA In, the proaossloa . h’onv the thenter to Thistle Hall. .:
Beside, thè queen and her oourl, ¦ pictured ela'ewhere on this page, theve wjll be included in the cere­mony several .other .ohaructero—an” nrchbishop. mnrslmlB. trumpeters- • •these parts will, bo
Jng Jane Witmei* '30. Tod Egli ’37- Mary Biggort *36. Thoresa Votter. 38. Cnrl Doaer /ac, nn'd Ralph Na-' son ’37.
Margitwt Watters. ’S6. -Depavi• Costume. HconomicH, is
Miss:-EHza->.. _ . — cofltumiere. - will assist, in preparing the apeclnl costumen for the other members of the cost. Joseph BatohQlIer '33:- and Jnne Lloyd 38, aro ln-charge- respectlvely, pf neceBBary llBhtlpg and‘properties. - :
Mr. Minet wnp asked to wrlteHlie • ceremony by nasetnhrle Qrentzer ^ ;35. chairman of. the committee In- charge - of.the .coronation.-•:The*' c.pmnUtJ.eQ_dej?iAed.thiB:yeat.to.plan.- a-corenjiony,- that':-iwould.>.'|)e'-iueed^ perroftnently.; and1, become-' part-.ot: tbe-,Carhog1^f.triidl06ni: - The?’cere-.' mony has been planned as a fornia) ¦ rite , which will take ,the form -ot . an opening and dedication tor nil of the Spring Carnivol celebration which Is. .to follow.The original plan .was to com* bine the coronatlon rlte with some*, thing of 'Scottlsh ila.vor, but It was-1 found' that coronation ceremonleB in all countries are1 essentially-:the*:same, sb that i.......the audience i tlsh. v
found Impossible to Im- itate'directly -a true- '.coronation'*- ceremony, which often Jest* as long- as seven hours.. Mrv-Mlnet saya oi- the.ceremony that he )iaa attempt*'
modified' t.o; suit the1 aplrit-öf- i
Coronation ball for.-which the c- chostrae T' WillRyshandk and Fi*an . Eichler have been hired. Playing 
for Friday evening's Costume 'ball are Eddie Wellz and his PennsyK vanlans and Jack‘MaBon -and ;hla -
9atnrdny.
TAFtTAN NOTICE
tlve that each appointee be preaent.-
Fraternities Groom Buggies for 16th ' 
Annual Sweepstakes Speed Contest
Preliminary Heate Scheduled 
For Friday Morning; 
Trophies Awarded
For the past week. Carnegie fra­
ternities have been repairing,, oil- 
testing their ' 6peed 
chariots tor the sixteenth anuual 
sweepstakes contest. The prelim­
inaries will-begin 11:00 o’clock-Fri-' 
Ing. Finals and the Judg-
W'ilt be
__ ....-----j of.iteen. fraternityivalry alnce tbe flrat Campus Week in -1920. [Winners of the de­sign and .speedi cupe in the sweep- 
stakes are: the only - intra-mural champions .to receive .Son-rotating
The ;cars will be, run ov.ejr.'.the
of Margaret .:Morrlaon; proceeding up therhlll in front of the Gyihna- sium,; down .througii* the park, -past the' conBervatory, and on' ;¦ to; ihe .ampua: again• ..by' the. road’ at. tUe •rid r of -, tlie!. bvldge. ' The final .atretoli .wlll-be the- road 'paflt' the Industrlea';1'v. building. V';-Different courses¿heive; been; used. in former ye'ar6,:tWnew.couraebelDg,uBe.d elnce tbe. completion ., of,Frew atreetijn;.i929;;'Bef6rejthistlmei several dieasteraoccurredwhen the
E front of Margaret'’then ended Morrleon.
-Beta Tbete PI placed first In its :’ heat last year covering the Schen--- ley park course In 2:54. a record: six -seconds under \ their ; previous . record set-the preceding.vear-. After. having been pronounced winner oC vIlio'heat, however, the Betas ’This dlsquallflcation" .... __ acciâentdisqualifiedcame as a result of________the bottom of. industries ¿ill.tlie . socond exchange tlio Tunnep - :who had brought the Beta car down the bill, came-1n. fast and the third t rnan; _ in. desp.emte .effort io oAtch i tho car, stumbled end fell; . The car-’i eecap^v.^e .grasp and ran . fre££ past- th'e -accond.vboundary:, bf Tthe(v; "txchange zone'.; It came '.to a.v’sto^;
despite; the .unfortunate , delay-; fortunate bemuse'the.Beta ^'riwaflw -disqualified - for- -- running' free ;' ¿fi'div unoontroiled past .the- third abound: 'aryv;^rh"e':rB^
onds in the lead. . .
to theNflnala. Kappa.Slgba .ft^ ternity won, the ’eweepBtake's^coniw petition^ PI Kappa. Alpha ;was.sefe??i ond^.ThetavXithird^'.andJDeltatcTi^^i,,,, Delta fourth. The-tlme 2:49i7;<^vju%^A considerably^alcrw.er> tl HF^ord made-- the previous year by^ Beta Theta Pi. -jfa.' iThe winning buggy was a three?. wheeled; car with; plenty., ot.
compeütloiL ;
Él__________ l^feÉÉÊ^

---------------------------------------------------

> í... THE CATtNECIE TARTAN, TUESDAY. MAY 7. 1935
arUe Camene ^Tartan
\ FHOHK MÀVnoWES «M "A. C." tí. Horizon
( Colite« Editor*, ceekly ballettai of th« Aiwdil
» Editar. 
MCSA Bellori
vnklr daring the colteg« yç*r bj th._»¦ af'iC«mosl»;:Iiutltnte of T«bnoloB7. -\En* » PltUbnrtì» Poet Offle» u «c«nd-olM* n
. HMM*1 • N«rt '6p*rii
MCEAWonra______COPY EDITOR-----~ EDITO________________'Choewmn, Ini«t Gral___j Latta, Loalw M«lxn«r, aEllntwth Stuart. Usrcdta- Wltham.a_eCntbad^ARTLow -Bald* Alpha ____Booth. T«by'. Cron,' Betty Fiiher, Hobert Frmm ” horine “ * -Betty
.-rey, Alberta
N«rtEdJi___________________________________“¦Itor-------------!_______JEROME HANSON____MABGABBT G BIFFIN-DUDLKV T>, PENDLETON-----HARJOBIE C. GREEN
BDN:e b t¦OonebadA WF!GI r AdámsoD, Cl lí toa Boa telle. Enne 'Choeseran, Irvln# Grab« ~ " ”James Latta, Loalw Melxner,Ellntwth Stnart. Mmcdla- Wlthac REPORTERS:. í¿ulw Bald* Alphi " <"-by,v Cron, ' Betty Fiihe;Garrahan, BtUr ^Glcaj
Adélaldo BomtngtoD, Eugw
Stowai
OTRCULATION STAFF:
Alloo, RobertJîrelDB
/Stt'.wX &wn, Frederick H«rr
Sam siLinton,
w
Hail and Farewell
ITH this we take our leave.
The year we spent In office .has been 
Í an important one for us—we tried to make It 
an important one for Carnegie. Our primary 
¿ésk, recording the history of Carnegie aB It 
was being made, we supplemented with.what 
we considered' a progressive, liberal editorial 
policy. The Tartan was a students’ newspa­
per and it was incumbent that all its Influence 
end power—If the power of the press can be 
; considered ot any Importance—be eierted as 
fully as possible toward benefiting: the stu- 
' dent body. ' That was the ultimate objective 
'in everytiiing that was done or expressed.
In- the/ broadest 9efise¡:- oure was -chiefly a 
task of revamping attitudes toward a liberal 
: póínt of 'view. Contending that eyer chang­
ing conditions' throughout the world 89 well 
ae on tiiie campus, called for constant revi­
sions in the setup, we were-consequently exit* 
ical. ' We did not intend. to Insinuate that. 
; when something was. advocated, it was be- 
¡.¡'.cahse things were altogether had—but rather 
that they could be. made better.
, s Setting always an ideal- Situation as a goal— 
'we^strove*'(or it; oftbn, with the realization 
, that the ideal was unattainable but that the, 
'/'slt^yjng for -lt./would’make for progress.
:, .;>Many .things were, advocated, in; our plat-
• fortn. and'throughout the year—the ^hortspan
• of one year allowing us only sufficient'-time to- 
- toú’cÉi, briefly.vupori cach. SmfugnesS, we con- 
r sldered a .vice, particularly In.government and.
• íá -ádminietráUcm. and wher® we’found It we 
¿trléd ;|q diáoel it
---By choice, we were a prodding element—be- 
j ' cause. that Is what, we. believe a - newspaper 
should-be. Our - creed was something like 
this: "‘ V,
' .' -^Things may .be good—they can always be' 
.tottef and -the best, is <not good .enough,. That-. 
: ¡rye.'íbellevé^that', we: consider the job oían
• :editorlal stand.: '5 ' ‘
' -:.: Recommendations .to the new .staff , we omit 
-i.-rbérénrór rather the . only: recommendation, .we 
-could leave with them is whatbas been ex-.
; eiriplifted by oiir' attitude this year. Their 
•tasTc’is’.a difflcuit one—¡-and an jmmenseiy im- 
•pottant , one¿ : But they ;vwill. find It, on .the.
¦ '^whole, a glorious adventure, pgS we. and past 
^staffs before us did.
..l ;Árid as they' set oút .ón tiiát. adventure our 
v'slApere. wishes ^for:best luck.and lots, of sue*
:icess 'go: with- them- as we. bid them! a hearty 
"‘'ijail and farewell.” We take'our leave.
. On With the CarnivalC
ARNiVAL! The word- suggests gayety! 
Jaughter! fun! The annual? Carnegie 
^Spring Carnival conies niosi opportunely as a' 
welcome and necessary respite before the long,, 
hard grind of flnal-'fexaminalions.- The knowl­
edge of What Is .to follow, helps make the cele- 
-- br-atlon all the more .carefree in. contrast.
- •Being so comparatively young a school. Car­
negie-has been-called siugularjy • lacking In
• - tradition. The annual carnival. • however, is 
v well on its. way: toward becoming, traditional 
: ahd' 'includes on Its program a number of 
'•events which are more or less customary—the 
coronation of the campus queen, call-day cere­
monies. fraternity ^sweepstakes, a- faculty-se- 
-nior mushball game, a special three-edition 
-.newspaper. 'With these on its calendar. Car­
negie, can no longer be called traditionless.
•••;-These events-remain valuable as tradition
- only insofar as they preserve the spirit of fun 
Which rules the carnival. Tradition must he
^tempered with spontaneity, otherwise -it be- 
-.vcomes basal and boring. Just aa-long as we 
'3-t Caruegle can enter whole-lieavtediy into the 
r>ieeung -of- a-carnival, so-long shall it be an 
efiaential part of the.school calendar.- Once an 
Y'&onual carnlval becomes perfunctory and is 
;done merely as a-sentimental, gesture, it must 
.v.be abandoned. - This year, however, from ail 
lhe :enthusiasm of the preparations for the va- 
-Tlous -events. we. can .expect • a really "grand" 
«•Spnng..Carnival. .
i •> So let us: forget about tradition; declare a 
:~hollday from books and "labs" and ]otn unre- 
'rcsferyedly- in the-. gaveLyv laugikl^r.-aiid iuii of- 
s-. thei coming; celebration. •
. gy Robert R. French' •
" In the early spring 6M917 a German cor­
poral and a: British lieutenant ley-directly op­
posite one another In trenches on tbe petrified' 
battlefield of Ypres. Eighteen years later cor­
poral and lieutenant faced each other across 
dJplowatlc tables io Berlin: Hitler, dictator of 
60,000,000. Germans, and Captain Anthony 
Eden, British Lord Privy Seal.
Throwing over the Treaty of Versailles with 
a proclamation. Hitler bad ' ordered military 
conscription and demanded economic union 
with Austria, Inclusion in the Reich of Qer- 
man-speaking areas of Czecho-Slovakla, an afr 
force equal to Britain and France, an army 
to cope with Russia's and a navy of 400,000 
tons.
Such was the ultimatum presented to Sir 
John Simon, barrister and British Foreign 
Secretary, and his aide the At. Hon. Robert 
Anthouy Eden. They had flown from London 
to Berlin in an-attempt to pacify-the 'lèader 
of a nation, conscious of its re-awakened pow­
ers and its pride smarting under fifteen years 
of humiliation. European peace and disarma­
ment had ended in a pitiful expose of armed 
hatred and bitterness; and what Europe had' 
feared since the Treaty was a reality.
Tlmt the scholarly Sir John' Simon should 
be accompanied by Eden was no surprise to 
diplomats who have spent the past few years 
at Geneva. At the League he was looked upon 
*6 the spokesman for Great Britain, because 
of Sir John’s growing skepticism toward--tbe 
League and- disarmament.
As Lord Privy Seal in the Foreign Office, he 
is the opposite of his superior In background, 
talents and environment. Sir John was al­
ready a man of soqie years when the World 
War - broke upon Europe, and events since 
have made his lawyer^ logic tbe more pene­
trating and concise, bis mind the more com* 
pleic and sophisticated, but left his diplomacy 
as blunt aB ever. s
Eden's generation is tbe “lost generation” 
of the War. By 1515 his eldest brother.had 
been klUed in action; his second, the present 
baronet and eighth in line, was a prisoner; ho, 
himself, wab Just leaving Eton; and the<fourth, 
a. child almost, was to be hilled at sea, Prom 
Eton, where he had been a prize linguist, he 
joined the King’s Royal Rifle Corps, in 1915. 
At nineteen he was the youngest adjutant in 
the British Army and the youngèst brigade 
major before he was twenty-one. ¦
More fortunate than most of his fellows at 
Eton, the Ypres salient), the.- graveyard...of. 
youth, gave him a Military Cross. Thus while 
men. now near three score and ten, who 
watched the unrolling of the World War from 
business or government offices; are stolidly 
cynical about disarmament and -peace by way 
of Geneva, ÉdënÂséea the: League as the Jast > 
and only st&iv. Seventeen years old wlien 
the War: began-and[ only .thirty-eight now, he 
has 'experienced in action -the disillusionment 
and horrèr of the greatest of - modern ’ wars, 
and Geneva to him is more than the dream of 
à tired; haggard] ' broken WoWdrow Wilson.
-Returning from the-War , he' went, to Christ 
Church, Oxford, studied the :Near Eost He 
became ‘ expert in its languages,' traveled 
through its countries in vacations -and--.wrote; 
à dëliglilful book, “Places In The. Sjin,” about 
his Journeys. In 1922', when he came from Ox- 
ford. hè was defeated''in bis home constitu­
ency, Durham; by the Socialist candidatè. ; But
year lhter he invaded Warwickshire,' the 
constituency of his aunt, the.dowager-Countess 
of'Warwick; detected her, later married her 
step-daughter, Beatrice Hellën, and has been 
M; P.’ for this seat ever since. '
After three years learning the ropes in the 
Hoiise, he took a private secretaryship-in the 
Foreign Office/ He was appointed parliamen­
tary private secretary to Sir Àusteii Chamber- 
lain ii\ 1926,"lost his-position when the Tory 
government went out in 1929.J But-lie'return­ed with the National Government (Tory) in 1931 as parliamentary under-secretary in the Foreign Office, both positions held only Ly M. p.'s,;
He has consistently championed .the tenents of the-Locarno Pact, accomplished in the of­fice, of Sir Austûn. Chamberlain, ac'ahist the older Tory trpupe. But that he is a Tory him­self he would be the last to deny- Even - though he received hia share of -gentlemanly kicks-, he is a born* aristocrat with the pride- nul.v, wealth and tradition behind him. A descendant of Lord Baltimore, always freshly.
Writers’ Row
bon\berg _ _mustache ..neatiy blackhaired and handsome.'lie .gentleman-at-Ins best._
careful angle, hi -ioimed. tall, the English
-.A nation that can’buy motor cars as fast as itthey.-are now being turned- outj 415.000 units ! ^constituting : last' mohth's production and •¦¿iWhich is- filling, ltr amusement places with ;rJmbre..patrons-tlian'-it did-a year-ago.-is not ^without •. purchasin g power, even beyond " the'. *-barè--'-nece3Sit!e9.,' -With:: steel now running ¿about'47: par cent of' capacity: iron ore output'. i>laiiMarch greater than.-any month since'1931. ^fiports-and .Imports showing a slight increase- ::rnlIroads in: various sections.^ eicept the - South,.. ipepoitlngr Increased -; income.ltisgoing’ some- - .Wb«re even » slowly—The Philadelphia Rec-
.rly environment Is indicative of his present character. His-father, a painter and ardent- lover of beauty, was a country gentle- 6f Durham. - Tall perfect physique- a
1915. the old way of living, went with Sir William -Eden, and in a post-war England the youngest son .had to make his place.Captain Eden did not have to face the Labor Exchange nor the dole with its cold demoli­tion to self-respect. But-he Is an index into th-^post-wav niiiid-.of one type of Englishman— Eton, Cambridge or Oxford, the army, govern- and.family, in Geneva he took his work seriously.- Against the play of wills-
incorporated in disarmament.He-is not a tighter.' but talks with a mod­ulated voice, uuhurried. certain of. the: details of. his subject. His - deference to others-the' courtesy and-gracefulness of-his address' in assembly as he replies-to'question-"put bv M. P/s in- the absence oishls ^uueriot- flit the seats- in Commons when "Eden Is up:? - ' -'• He carried out his duties.-often contrary to personal beliefs, competently In. Genevan and members of- his :MajeBty-s Government have now recognized his talents andv’lmportance. Without- any diplomatic 'training- hls-r&laos in' the House and. the Foreign Office is based solely on- accomplishment?1 his' -work -ln Ge­neva can only be summed up In that he is a born diplomat. -•• H© Is - --one of those' extraordinary people: who - actually- believe in the. League- ot.-Na^ tione,-- which without 'past -procrastination' and- puerile ¦ bickering -might • baye
SPRING COMES TO FOTHINGSBY COURT
-piled in the ailey neit to O'Connor s, and .. nobody ¦ (leaat .pi r.;nll , tbe O’GonnorB) ,WM disturbed when a’recreant. rolled away from tbe heap. tMrs. Otterbelo’s clotlies- poles leased crazily out ot- theJr- sockets, ¦ but-as Mrs. Otlerbein herself often said,’, it gave her the creeps to see anything too straight. So the poles relaxed, the cans roamed at will, and everything was com­fortably forlorn.
Then spring came to Fotblngsby .Court, breathing on the sullen, smoky walls; making them }ess grim. A desultory house-cleaning took place all . along the court; “Maman” Rldeaux even washed her . windows, which had been left dirty all winter ' to better keep tbe warmth in. Paulina glanced out of the bright glass in the attic bedroom and called Pierre to see.
"Look!!’ she cried, “between those two soapy,streaks—no, more this way, Pierre.’’
A gaunt black tree embraced a bit of turquoise sky, imprisoning within the ebon web of its branches a mass of frothy cloud, which intensified the rain-washed blueness of the surrounding matrix. In the: foreground, lessening the severity of
» bank like a riotous slave in Nebucband- ezzar’s gardens, was euraptured. Her inter­rupted a blithe trill to bury his head In the bosom of e sensuous blossom; while the blades of grass hiding the modest feet
phalanx
"Well, what?" asked Pierre, as he fol- 1 his sister's finger,- “I don't see any-
“Pretty enough. 1 s'pose." said Pierre with contempt, “but, say! There’s the gang shootln’ marbles down at ole Lady Otterbein's . . . r gotta go ... so long.” 
Just like a boy, Paulina thought, :asd„ considered'calllhg her mother lo tbe win-' dow. “Maman,” however, had other
do in that old attic you hate much? I want you should clean' these ' wax flowers. Father Delaney comes tod ivy. Vite! Vite!”
Paulina obeyed silently. She removed the wax flowers from under their glass bell.
“They are pretty^- n’est-ce pas, ma petit’?” “Maman”-said admiringly, her hands on her hips, “Mon Dieu; Soigneuse­ment! Do not drop them!’’ ,
Perhaps, htought Pauline.' dipping bright pink petals into the smelly suds; perhaps it was just as well she had _not called. Maman to look at the clouds. ' "
: MIRIAM MELLON ’35-
Tke S-kibo Hobo^
SPRING CARNIVAL is close enough to say "boo" at now, that 
Is, If you don't mind saying "boo" . . . nevertheless, everyone la 
_ fast preparing himself for the festivities . . . Vondy is turning 
. back flips off tbe senior fence, Regis Joyce (the actor) has been.. 
. .practicing;, the stream-line' strut, for- weeks, and even Cliff Dolo- 
...way . (.though,.don’t .quote me)..Js. thinking,.of, shading lor. -the.,,. 
• occasion-1. . . The White- Ribbon Society Is on tbe ball again,, 
-with'.several.new initiates coming up.:. - . the Betas are pol-; 
Isbing up their bullet-shaped bath tub ready to .avenge their 
defeat of last year, the Kappa. Slgs are ready to retain-their title - 
and the Delta are coming out with knee action wheels, the latest 
in pusbmobile design ... if you don’t think tbat all this Is 
close enough to say “boo” at, then see if we give a dam.
THE ANNUAL COOKS FOREST OlITING seemed to be quite 
a success according to reports . . . what with Cliff Boutelle (our 
new boss) dumping buckets ol water on people’s heads .. .. , 
and Wally Hamilton says he had to laugh when be saw a bear 
hugging one of the trees, because he knew that only God could 
make a tree.
JIM STUART of Boss Hall has recently-been made President of 
-the Stuart Date Bureau. For the small sum of half the price of 
a bottle of Bacardi and several bottles of Coca-Cola he guaran­
tees any timid soul the time of his life.
OVER THE WEEK-END, Gub Sleeth- and Tony Prendes1 dashed- 
off to New York where the latter had the choice of renewing his 
passport papers or get kicked out of the country . . . the latter 
chose tbe former ... in one of his gay moments Tony sent J. 
Provost a telegram which read as follows: “Hello Speed ...
Butch” . . . there’s something about New York.
QUEENIE VAUTRINOT had a great .time hauling Halferty' 
around at the Cwen Tea Dance. Or was it the Queen who took 
the beating?
WE GIVE CREDIT to Harry Voskamp for this Btory whether he 
wants'it or not ... he was telling of his qualifying round for 
tha golf team: “I Btarted out on. the first hole with'dp eight,
took a nine on the second, and followed with a ten on the third, 
but the strain was too great ... I blew up on tbe fourth.”
TARTAN BANQUET . . . Boutelle surrounded by flve women 
. . . Jim Latta surrounded by a big cigar . . . Buddy Overend 
surrounded by gloom when nobody called on him . . . after din­
ner speeches were-short and to the point . . . Kappel tried to 
keep a straight face'when-announced'as the new business mgr., 
but Ruthie Wleler took care of that . . . special key to Mar­
jorie Weinman, staff typist for four years . . . Scotty Charles 
received* his promotion to Sports Ed. with what is sometimes 
laughingly referred to ns his “dignified look.” ¦
SEEN ON M. M. STREET . . . Margie Green trying to get the 
curtains on her new car to stay put, in the rain . . . try Wet- 
Pruf . . . (Margie’s commont after 15 minutes of good, honest 
sweat: “Aw, these open cars are for the birds” . . . tch tch.
IMAGINE THE CHAGRIN of a certain ex-football star >vhen.lie 
borrowed the report of a 'friend who had just' received an un-. 
scarred "A,” copied the report, handed it in,-and got, a “C’’! 
(Note: that old stuff about “crime doesn’t pay,” Woomnmbb?
“DON’T HAND MB THAT STUFF’’ NOTE • . • Buzz Green­
berg's famous' iast^oir'ds’ line: “Well, think ’11 gwover t'hut V 
Study.” - ¦ - '.
Dear'iEdrtor
' May 3. 1935.
Dear Editor:As one vitally interested in labor and its problems, I wish to call your attention to the présent strike or the employees of the Rleck Mc- Junkin Dairy, and to protest against,., the-. schooVa-.purchasing their products during the volun­tary, lay.off. -I have beeil lnformed^ by' those-ln chargéiof. thé -Cafétéria
mor.tb, the school support the minority.in its - demands for a closed shop. In other words, the purchasing agent or agents a
nd Are as they please: please usually means firing those active in labor unionB.
. Is this support of the manage­ment of the dairy altogether justi-
such it can be called? After all, it does not 'matter to the school from whom it purchases its dairy products: the prices are uniform, being regulated by code. And since there are many who patronize the Commons and the Inn who feel as I do; since these students and fac­ulty members are forccd by cir­cumstances to eat at these places, should not those in charge avoid censure-and boycott by changing to another company? There is no ex­pense involved; It would only take a minute to effect the change. And
the Administration would many- enemies ' by the action.-. -Very, truly, sours
FKBD ADEBt-
AU orders received 
before the 24th day of 
May and paid for in 
full will be1 delivered 
b e f o r e Commence' 
meat. •
Ses Miss Ruth E.
Andrews,206 Gymnasium
PRICES:
10E Gold' ÉAA n,Throughout......MiU.UII
10S Gold Through-1 r nn out (amali).........lu.UU
Ä-.........116.00
“.... 11.00
These rings are manufac­tured by Dleges & Clust, New York, Boston, Chicago, Pittsburgh. .
Above all
Others may disappoint. I never do. Pm always 
mild, always fine to>taste—b&cause I’m made 
of fragrant, expensive center leaves, only. Turn 
your back on top leaves. They're raw, bitter, 
stinging. Turn youl" back von bottom leaves. 
They’re.coarse,, sandyj.grimy. Before I.consider 
it worthy, every leaf must be a center leaf, 
* mild, fine-tasting, fragrant. I do not irritate 
your throat. Above,all—I’m your best friend.
TUNB IN—Lock! tatfcekir Wdty, wi&THB’HIT PARADE,«rcr'NBC Network 8 to 9 p .EDST

---------------------------------------------------

THE CABNEG^TA^tAW.'TOCSPAT MAT^T. H35
THE 
TUESDAY 
QUARTERBACK 
9 6 
by JERRYHÂNSON
G o Ife r s Drop 
Two Matches 
¡Over Weekend
Linkmen Lose- to » Grove 
City ^nd3 Nittany , 
Lion Golfers' ¦
ipacity i
r,AULY STEFFEN, CHICAGO JUDGE AND TARTAN MENTOR 
leveral years ago, underwent an operation for kidney trouble a. week 
io last Thursday.. The ailment was an old one which kept the 
(ifao coach In serious condition for a long time.
Judge Steffen built the Tartan football. reputation from an t 
•thing of many year«; ago to. that of one of the finest grid machines 
the country—a machine whieh can boast of being one of the four 
[which had beaten the Notre Dame. Fighting Irishmen as many, as three 
After, he left Carnegie^ Watty Steffen served In an advleory 
in tutoring the Scots-on the grid. And.each -year he it 
.... Interest In. his former proteges, visiting what games he 
id keeping up * line of correspondence with the pr©sent_ staff.
The sports-staff, and athletle.'Staff Jo1n the rest-of the achoo 
nding best wishes for.a speedy recovery.
¡AND. NOW A TRIBUTE TO THE PRESENT ATHLETIC-'staff from 
LyseU, for-Its extensive co-operation with the Tartan sports staff dur-1 
year as editor* It has been a pleasure to-serve the campus 
[mentors, and my parting/wish is tliat these great guys, can regard my 
torls In a happy light.: •
. Our policy-during-the past year has. been to give the less popular 
port^ a break. I have felt that these lesser constellations- hold a place 
)C no-less importance-than the-major sports;-justified' by.their-un­
noted contribution towards maintaining Interest on the campus In 
[unsung activities, under the most adverse conditions—the, latter lielng 
grind which Is encountered by. technical, students.
With major schools- all over the country abandoning the minor 
¡sports as a remedy for overworked budgets, .and Carnegie's own coun- 
coneidering a similar prescription, It iB proper, tbat the minor 
Sports of our own campus receive our unfaltering support. It Is es­
pecially; due the. 'kittle-fellow'’ when he* is often the executor of the 
successful season of competition.
NOW TO TURN OVER THE REINS TO THE INIMITABLE Charles 
. |n selecting'J. Scott''Charles'-to be Bpo*te'editor,* I have; picked 
d who comblnes the qualities of. the typical. “Donald Dare” report* 
/Uh startling originality—and ! foresee a miraculous resuscitation 
tore for this sheet. ->
Pleasant voyage/Scotty I
THANK YE KINDLY, FIRST MATE HANSON, for your, best •wishes 
as to tbe oncoming voyage, but already ! am beginning to get those 
queer sensations about-the: middle. Quick; Judeon, a noggin, of brandy 
while Lhe old bo’sun takes down his hair for the boys and gir1- 
u The reasons for these ills are rather obvious. You see, your pres* 
lent ecritae does not have the flmbcrth writing.knack of Joe'Bronson, 
*3ibe remarkable memory.fpr. athletic eyents..past of..Jack. Lowes, or the 
If trick phraseology "of' Jelty Haoson.-- However, .-in taking this job, I 
| promised nothing and the odds stand at about'ten to one that that ie 
leiactly what you are going-to get. - - . I
jgWE REGRET TO ANNOUNCE that we have no policy as yet and have 
& HMt ¦ t>r"rio' Jdea' a6vt’o;wbere: we ¦ con ¦get-;one.: Anyontwith-anold 
3 policy, not too worn; at the^ edges,- wll}. klndly dellvfir, to the
1 staff. We get tired of wearing that old pink thing that Aunt Minerva 
ran off on the tatting machine two summers ago. In the Interim (sec-i
ofid door on the left'tip'stalrs)' we are' rnbre than willing to receive any 
suggestions. ¦ .v ¦¦ - v. y ;
AMONG OTHER* THINGS, THIS COLUMN Is supposed to contain 
news of the sports he^e .and thejre. .. Of this therc.is a,good deal but 
little space to prlnt lt’ ail.. Allow, u® to present our own special triple 
distilted version oi th>. copktall. ; ¦ ' >• ¦ v -
All the wise giiys'plckfng Omaha, especially after the Derby . .
I Rain alowed up spring'practice somewhat but the grldders scrimmaged- 
ual . , . Mushball games really hot . . . Theta Xl’s and Pikas 
aarJy—dark horses still dark . . . Sophomores beat plebes at 
¡hootin’ the other day . . . H. O. Williams of frosh was high— 
lng scorer, not drunk . . . Theta XI’s won the Old Gold pi 
(able . . . Betas got the bridge table . . . Oclts are wondering 
lo do with the lamp.
The Tartan golfers took It. 
well-known chin twice last 
losing to Grove City and Penn 
> in rapid' succession. The 
affair was played partly In a 
combination rain and hall storm, 
and the Sklbos seem to be a fair 
weather team having defeated the 
Grove City lads a few weeks' ago 
under more favorable atmospheric­
al conditions. The score in this 
match was 5% to 3% in Grove 
City’s favor.
The meeting with Penn State
Carrvég ië Track Teark 
Scores Victory Ofcei4 
Grove City, 96-39
Dash; Men Scqçe-Sweeps 
- Field Men Win Four 
of Seven Events
GREEN HIGH POINT 
MAN FOR CARNEGIE
Conditions Slow Up Times; 
Gamblor Turns In 10.1 
For 100 Y ard Dash
< dlsasltheCarnegie golfers. Chick Beyer, th'e Pennsylvania Amateur champ, bealt Tech's. Captain Kay 4 and 3. All..of the. Plaid points were scored in- the-first -foursome-when-George] Stewart, No. 2 miu, halved Tom Marshall, and together with Kay managed to deadlock- In the best ball. Masters walloped Palle;Tech with” a low score of the. day, a 78, and won six and fivei
The other scores were: Walshbeat McKenzie (T) 5 and 4; Men­ard beat Speyer (T) 7 and Hunter beat Voskamp 6 and Best balls of Walsh and Hunter, und Menard and Masters 1 good for-Lion-Wins-of 5 and 4.
Lion Netmen Win 
FromTartanSquad
Miss Dorothy Anderson,Past 
Champ, Helps State Win
• first
The Carnegie track team contln- 
?d its winning streak Saturday by 
downing the Grove 'City squad by 
erwhelming score, 96-39. The 
honors of the day went to Johnny 
Green, Plaid sophomore, with 16 
points, nod Glolm.a and Brown were 
s»0. with, ten points each. Corne- ie scored sweeps in tbe 100, 220. and discus, while Grove City scored sweep in the hammer throw. The Sklbos raced and placed, i follows:"100-yard dash—Cnmblor,Perlna. second; Connor, third; all of Carnegie. 10.1 seconds.
120-yard high hurdles — Green,
Tbe Tech netlers lost the! 
match Saturday wh'en they 
aced: 5-0 by a strong ' Penn State 
i. Continuous rain for the past 
week rendered all but one qf the 
State courts unfit for use. There­
for©.' nil the matches were played 
;on the single, asphalt court. Time 
-allowed for only iflve matches to be 
.played outof the customary, nln^. 
!lh the singles, Krey lost to Green ’6-1, 6-3 while Macskov bowed -Block 6-3, 6-3. Hess of the Tartans was defeated 6-1, 62, by Smith. Vu- kovlch lost hlB match to Miss Doro­thy Anderson, former Westei Pennsylvania .women’s; ^tennis
Grove Cltv.- third. . 2* minutes. t>.t> neoonils.
Two mlIe-4Auntln, Grove City, first; McMahon, Carnegie, second; Babin, Carnegie, third. 10 minutes, 96 seconds.
Shot Put—Brown, Carnegie, first; Croft, Carnegie, second; Smith, Grove City, thinl. 40 feet, 6 inches. 
' Javelin—Soicb, Grove City, first; Fitzwllson,' Carnegie, ' second; Ford. Carnfegie, .third. 170 feet, 2 Inches.• Pole vault—Graham,.Grove City, first; Nason, Carnegie, second; Spencer, Carnegie, third. 11 feet. 'High jump —; Green,. Carnegie,
5 feet, s Inches.OogUL.Ymrown, Carnegie, first; Fitzwllson. Carnegie, second; P7T.g1 Carnegie, third. 112 feet, 3 Inches.Brood jump—Perina, Carnegie, first; Camblor, Carnegie, second; Graham, Grove City, third. 20 feet,
Rain Hampers 
Mushball Tilts
Pi. K. Av Hitting , Heavily 
As Favorites Win
His royat-hlghaeus Jupe Pluvious; 
again frowned (¿.the tauahball situ: 
atlon and caused the .postponement 
of several contests this past week; In the few games that were played, however, tbe favorites managed to come through as expected. Pi Kap­pa Alpha has scored a total of 69 runs in two games and should win their league championship handily If they can stand (he strain. The Pikas appear to have lha best bol- anced team <n the leagues, with an infield that Is very much above the ordinary and a crew of long range hitters that have caused a lot of worry among the opposing hurl* ers. The other favorite Thota XI although scoring - in much leas quantity has been ruunlug up against much lougher competition. The T X's defeated Beta TUeta Pi last weok In a very exciting strug­gle to the tune of 12-9. Johnny Green’s pitching was the high­light of this game; he hns the imzlng ability of bearing downwhenever the situation demands
Wonien’s Athletics
byMargie - Green-’-------
Too bad. the »wearier ipan turned 
sgaln0t::us -last Saturday .-.for our 
High School Play Day. However, 
the fact that nlnety^elght girls 'were willing t$ give up their Sa'turd.ay morning sleep (and .what an ideal morning it was io siesp msj to ur- rlvo at the gym at nine o’clock was proof enough that a little chilly spring air couldn’t cramp ourl style.We finally landed In tbe ? gym only to discover the Campus Week Committee- working full force on the stage, but how could a few helpless males hold out against the. previously mentioned ninety-eight women (or did I say girls?) We carried out our e-“ program just as succeeRCully n had planned to for fx hot,. sunny day. Dr. Marks ev'en contributed to our cause. A Schonley High 1 School lass was quite distressed with*« ["sprained’* ankle until he bandaged It tightly for her, niter | which everyone watched In Amaze* men I the ease with which she rnn a few relay races. "Notice how they limp' in and leap out of my of­fice," Dr. Murks said In hlB Inlmlt-
wlthout a.flaw_ Ut yo«'U pardon >he continuous bragging:). The “C" and Jacket awt^rdB- went, to: A. Virginia Linn, EllzabetK. lowrey. Helen
nnd Betty Lehr; the ,W. A. A. pins to: Betty Ketiny, Betty Lehr; Ag­ue» Stevens, and Betty Mackey; and the class numerals to: Pegs? Shultz, Jane Thompson, Dorothy Kerr, Mary Claire Lamb, Nettlo Nugent. Sylvia Flerst, Jocelyn
Booth, Claire Frederick, Teg Hal- non, nnd Mftry Jalin.
This year W. A. A. Board wel­
comed tho new Board Members at un installation tea yestorday attor- noon In the Women's Club room. Next year'B bltloers are ns follows: • Mary Wettach, president; : Muud Bowers, vlco president; Margl^ Green, secretary-treasurer; Betty;
16.9 seconds.
___ -Koch.-Carnegie, first; Hort-ley, Grove City, second; McMahon. Carneglo, third. 4 minutes, .C5.6 seconds.
440-yar(V dash—Giolma, .Carnegie, »„•St; Cook, Grove City, second: Fitzgerald, Carnegie, third. 61.8 seconds.
220 low hurdles—Green, Carnegie, first; Donahuse, Grove City, sec­ond; Spencer, Carnegie, third. 27 4-5 seconds.
_..yard dash Giolma, first;Connor, second; Perlna, third; all of Carnegl«. 22.6 ’seconds.
880-yard—Burke. Carnegie, first; Beal, Carnegie, second; Austin;
IiABGBST BBLBCTION OF ¦ FOBTABLB AND STANDARD-SIZEDTYPEWRITERS 
$14.95 to $75.00
Qhooseyontf'b&nk. 
as you would choose, 
a friend 
*
MELLON NATIONAL 
BANK
Pittsburgh, ITh
The mild cigarette the athletes smoke
is the mild cigarette for YOU!
A- cigarette so mild you can smoke all you 
want — that’s what athletes say..about 
Camels.' And when a champion talks about 
“coadition”—"wind”—healthy nerves—real 
tobacco mtldhcss— he’s- got .to know..
- Gene Safa2etr says: -"Piaying-as -much as I. 
do—I have to keep ia'condition. I smoke 
Camels steaddy. They are so mild they never 
get my 'wind'—never upset my nerves ” 
Other athletes back^hîm up. . i"I smoke 
- all the Camels I want, and keep in top con­
dition/’ says Mel Oct, slugger of the New 
York Giants.... Georgia Coleman, Olympic
diver, says: Camels don t cut down on my 
'wind.* .. Bill Mdlcr, oarsman; Jim Lan* 
caster, N. Y. U.'s 1934 basketball captain,
' John Skillman, pro squash racquets cham­
pion—hundreds of sports stars smoke Camel 
regularly and report that Camels never gee 
tbeir "wind or nerve .
What this mildness means to you I. t. It 
- medns you can smoke Camels all you want! 
Athletes have made this discovery: Camels 
costlier tobaccos are so mild, they can 
"‘smoke all they please, without disturbing 
their "wind or nerves.
....... "
so 3Men atf;( a mplc
YOU CAN SMOKE | Vieilli W JLlJYOU CAN SMOKE 
ALL YOU WANT!
’"Aunty sleeps more soundly'slnce you got s FORD V'S”
i -Camels are made from finer, MORE EXPENSIVE TOBACCOS 
.•—Turkish and Domestic 7Y than any other popular, brand.
(ftjMrf) R.J REYNOLDS TOBACCO COMPANY,:^io*«wn^alem, N.C,;
CONDITION IS IMPORTANT TO YOU TOO — on vacation, in- college, 
at home. You can keep "in condition,- yet -smoke all you plcuc. 
Athletes say: "Gunds never, get your wind."
^

---------------------------------------------------

THE
CARNEGIE
PLAID
' Oknnto IutltDte -_9g. (AM br Nlrit «*«>1 «fefcnfe of
¦^säJÄ'ä»je. of «U -Dtr School».EditnrUl Boàrio
WALTER J. NOIGOT Stotf:
WTT.T.TAM E. HASS . 
GENEVIEVE SCHOLTZ DAVID O. DAVIS 
. CoBtribntoni
Might School
. With the passing of examina­tions, undoubtedly many students are asking themselves if their time spent at night school is worthwhile. The night group usually needs some incentive, some'evidence to: ' support their original belief that pight school will at some time or other be worth something to them.
During the past year many re- ¦ ports have been received about the successful application of night school education. It is gratifying to know that many industrial con- • cents recognize the value of having employes take extension work at 
night
. Many prominent men have ob­tained their education at night. The. vice president of a large steel company, several patent attorneys, a Bales manager of one of the larg­est pipe companies In the country, a, college president, and many others owe their present positions to the training they received at Carnegie Tech night school.
This certainly shows that night school has helped many men, and proves that persistence, and tenac­ity of purpose can really make paTt time education important and val-
NJGÖT LIGHTS
"Swlck" Hanson, and Jack Gear­hart must be awfully good toyB— nobody seems to know a. thing • about them! . .Mr. Gunshol baa : a subject for his thenls Umt’s bound to slick him—‘Phenolic Varnishes!’’ .' . . William Hake -•was -caught instructing the day school girls • of the .“Tartan" staff -: on how to write snort stories, in an /(impartial manner, of .course. _ '
• Our latest short‘story which has ; just trickled in ;about the Engl- ; nears* banquet, claims that Ed Sipler, overcome by a. pretty show girl, jumped' off a obalr ;’and went into- his'" dance—and she wasn't ¦ even from Dormont!
- ‘ Since that error was made in last '¿'„week’s column, your pet pillar has ' hired a bodyguard and y/alfas. paBt .dark alleys very quickly . . Thecorrection follows-: It wasn’t .the William Penn, hotel, It. was the . Webster- Hall; it .wasn’t the morn­ing after the Engineers’ banquet, it was the-afternoon after; Isabelle : Eanshoff wasn’t even near tbe ban*, quet slte, she.was near tbe swlm: mtng pool. and tp show you how wrong you all were, the-poor gal was coming from church! .
' Scoop! Dutch Fisher, another .wo? man-hater, .Bang.. “I Surrender Derir;” and gave the girl-friend a diamond ring . . . Two members oftbe Public-Speaking class are algo members of the KilUe band .. i.. Windy Maurer was seen walk­ing home with half the qualitative lab. . . . The Public Speaking class had their final exam dinner . y last week, and everyone gave their alt^r .-dinner-, speech. The talks' were supposed.tabe humorous, but' there .waan’tia laugh in the carload ; .on Tuesday, Jbut Thursday night the; boys .got giddy.' lpleven class
of honor was ; thé well known ; Scotchman, Mr. Forrester . ... Mr. 'Fisher spoke from experience when he talked on “Passing the Buck" . But the hit -of the evening
. Public Speaking.
?.V-AThe boys in.the draughting room Loii Holtz mad,'and every other
sing full blast, wTEh 50 crooners , anxious to help out . . Johnny.- Shurko doing a cakewalk while his ,-;!>ale throw pennies . Thè boys ^setting up on the table to get the • proper perspective on their work ... . . Joe Tracht going crazy over a;'Simple, teeny,'' pair of steps.
C.S. Emm
PRINTER 6470 Monitor Street
<PA
Wate-Jim!
Ä ini^jíghttlrpwin¡
A
<HA$ M HieCINS » CO., I
HIGGINS'
I American
I DRAWING INKS
Bulle tin on. Occupation 
And Relief Published
. An interesting publication “Occupational Changes and Relief Activities” in Allegheny county has recently been published.' This pub­lication yrna edited' by John D. Beatty and- Herbert L. Grau, of Carnegie Tech; and Major Philip Mathews of the Bureau of.1 Govern­mental..Research. Assistance, was given by workers furnished by .the Civil Works Administration,The bulletin . presents statistics on the occupational changes which have taken place In the United States, Pennsylvania and Pitts-
ment. The accompanying graphs
graphs present in Indes numbers
mechanical industries .as the build­ing, automobile, iron and steel, and textile industries showed'the great­est declines!A careful study of tbe material presented, which-includes statistics derived largely from the 1910, 1920 and 1930 census figures and addi­tional up-todate information secur­ed with particular reference to Al­legheny county t will prove of great
Council Requests 
Ticket Returns
Many students' have failed 
to make ticket returns for 
Night. student council func­tions. In «justice to nil stu­dents, no Insignias will be awarded to those who are in­debted to the Council’ until the returns have been made.
As the Insignia dinner will be held during the month of
that the record of points earned by workers may be completed. All retums sbould be made to William Veoeel, Box 136, C.. I. T. Post Office. The interschool mail, box in the basement of the Admin­istration building may. be . used for _ this purpose,, no postage being required.
Employment Dept. 
Pia ces Students
Bureau of Recommendations 
Advise Night Group
the lines of their chosen courses. For the most- part -these attending. night school either to
themselves to. assume duties of greater. responsibility 
• Each year several hundred stu­dents come from great distances and need help in securing suitable positions: This situation oftencauses difficulties, for many stu­dents come here expecting to at* tend night school and have trouble In finding work.' Often they lacking in experience and are familiar with the city. The bu­reau.advises non-resident students to Investigate employment possi­bilities . before coming to Pitts­burgh and to secure a position be­fore assuming the expense of night
Representatives of the' ‘bureau and the entire stall of - Carnegie Tech are constantly in touch with the various industries in the dis­trict. The bureau is always glad to write any individual letters that the students or graduates may wish, and to point pective employer the man’s quali­fications and his ability to fill tbe
The President and the entire Board of Trustees seem to feel that the expenditures for work along the lines outlined are entlre- tified, and that they do bring
Industrial world is due, at least in part, to the' efforts of the bureau.Some agency must exist in every large school to evaluate differing opinions, to keep confidences, to discredit gossip, to readjust fall- to stimulate successes, to lo- ftnd satisfy new opportunities, and to fit ability to its work.
At Purdue university, Lafayette, Indiana, a society known as “The Stray Greeks” has been started for
Tartan Roster For 1935-36 Named 
At Annual Banquet Last -T3^ Night
(Continued From Page One.), mereiai Engineering, will succeed Hanson as sports editor. Assisting him will be James B Hughes '37, Department' of Arcbi- teclure, who .will continue to write, feature stories for the page: - V;-
Next -year's circulation manager 111 be Alvin L; Guraha ’-36, -Depart- X of Electrical Engineelng, He
ed at the. banquet are as.-follows: Louise B.aldy, Alpha Black, Doro- otby Booth, Toby €ross, Lols Hor- WllllanT; Lord, •. -Alberta Mc­Clure, Adelaide Remington. John
senior, class. College of Engineer­ing. . He was also president of the sophomore class. College , of IndUB- trleB, is a member of the varsity Bwimmlng team,!publicity manàgèr of the Thistle, a member of tbe student cabinet of the .Carnegie Christian association, and a formçr
dal fraternity, Mr. Gruber was also adertislng manager of last :
i. secretary this
class, Margaret Carnegie College, last year.Tbe. new business'.manager, Mr. "Rappel, Is a member of Beta gig-
Alpha Delta, printing honorary, and
of tbe senior, class, College of Engl-
Delia Epsilon, journalistic hon-
Mr.' Charles, a member of Beta Theta Pi, social fraternity, Is- a member of Delta Skull, varsity swimming team. Puppet staff. Tri­publications staff. He was also a member of Scimitar, sophomore honorary.
The Tartan staff appointment? this year were made under the con­stitution drafted by last year's edi­tor. Edmund J. McCormick. This constitution places the. appointive power, which was formerly vested in the hands of the editor, in an executive, board composed of^the editor, news editor, managing "edi­tor, and business manager. Under this system th^.editof.has two out of flye. votes si majority .being re­quired''for election.- ^¦ Two changes which the <lutly
year’s-staff.. The, news editor ^as made second. inxpbBltlon to the ed- thé .managing. editor,' the
was done because of thè fact the ecutlv'e board .considered' the.important and vital
Attendance and gate..receipta i
of last, season.
STUDENTS
-WANTEDFive hundred Typewriters, all makes. Portables and Standards,-soldiC n one$10.00 five months..
American Writing Machine Company601 LIBERTY AVENUE PITTSBURGH ATIantlo 6488 See our School representative DICK HAMMOND
Peoples- 
Pittsburgh 
Trust Co.
Oakland Branch
Forbes and Meyran
“THE OAKLAND 
SANK”_
?
IN TEE 
CENTER OF 
COLLEGE . 
' ACTIVITY
MEMBER FEDERAL 
RESERVE SYSTEM
Dinner Plans 
Taking Shape
Night Council, Faculty 
To Discuss Problems
Ea«h year the members of night 
student Council and tbe adminis­
trative Faculty meet- at a dlnn 
discuss the various problems 
cernlng the night students and 
night school In general. As ' 
suit of these meetings, new courses* 
have ' been • added and' -i 
other suggested changés, benefit­
ing the night 6tudents, have, been
¦ One of the most important du­ties of the members of Council Is.- to keep in ' close touch with the night students and acquaint thera-
Parklng facilities, additional study rooms, lighting, improve­ments of existing courses and the addition of new courses are some of the subjects discuesed during, this dinner.
Suggestions or complaints rela­tive to the night courses or;con­ditions on the campus should tie made to the Council for discussion at the coming-meeting. The.mem- bers of Council, acting as' the rep*.
¦ent year.
There are still a few weeks left before the dinner win be held and Vit is ¦ite to
.-blch would be advantageous to- the advancement of the, night
Drama Students 
Present Plays
on ' lesfi- Friday Saturday evenings iho mghi school Drama department presented four ^hoi plays, , including: it Go pEThat," by Essex' Cane; “Letters,” by Florence Ryerson and Calvin Clements; “The Little Stone House,” by George Calderson, and “Salvage,” by- Lester Schenkel,
The • plays were directed by Elizabeth Shrader and . Elizabeth Horn, assisted by ' Elizabeth Levfnger and Eleanor nidge. Those Included In tbe cast were Bsva.-Bennett, Margaret Cum- iming,, RoseniarleV.Helfrick/. Bernice Ivory, Ruth' 'Loerner,* Kay ‘Leute, Vivian Morgan, Wllda May Park, Margaret Reed, Margaret Thomas, Mildred' Burleson, Kitty Harmon, Dorothy Thomas, James Farrel, Jack Al^en, E. V. BorVett, -'~ ib,. william O'Toole, sell, Eugene Schlixnpc i Tobin, Ellen Dougherty, Rose Billy, Ethel WlUls, Rosalind Me- Gann, Barbara Schuckmanu, Lil­lian ' Dehner, Gordan Cedner, Louise Garbers. Dorothy Hersko- v'ltz, Bettle Eisner, Joseph Samson, Jack Slomoif, Vincent Gaugban and Dick Ertzman.
Additional plays will be present­ed during the balance. of tbe
Novel Summer Course 
Conducted By College
Students of foreign languages t the 'summer session of Colum­bia university will be surrounded with the, atmosphere of tbe coun­try whose language they are study* ‘»g. - 
The most elaborate project will
the social life
’Tis Said
vi.THAT-/the guartf'was put In ttie^be’dftom of the modet house -last, week to see that,no .one was caught napping.THAT the height of Dick Shields’ ambition Is way-side Inns and women.THAT after eight years, A. C. Grimm ' has flnatly confessed
THAT several of the coming graduates are planning on rent­ing the Council Office to sign autographs, to .the. many .-year
be caused by the result of the grades. -THAT $he high pressure
THAT one of the Arts offi- cers was surely put on the-spot by “Night ' Lights" the other evening. He forgot that any. .thing he said will be used against him.- THAT the only consolation for those who have flunked the examinations, Is that they have
SQUIRREL HILL 
BARBER SHOP
6823 FORBES STREET:
VnOTirmTi™\ rue TAI K/OF THF TAMPIN
345 Fifth Avo.6212 Penn Ave. Men3 WilPa3y
Prizes'Awarded
Tbe judges , in the recent poster 
contest held', in conjunction with 
¡the ••¿nte>nfght; dance ;.:hàve';#5y*Bïd' 
ed thé prizes to Sailly Lang and 
Floyd Grimes. ¦ The posters pre-
ate any bad judgment, duplicate prizes were awarded.
The choice posters were ploced on the bulletlni hoard and attracted considerable attention. ______
Lockers Must Be 
Cleaned Out Peo
-AH 'nighl. Btudenis..registered -the Painting and Decoratw ? partment of the college or r. Arts are requested to remove th«i! personal property. from the schS lockers before May 11. This 
will serve as a final notification « this request, and all material! found in the lockera after tbat feu will be confiscated.
Thia young lady records the meaningless syllables spoken by the
AND, "How doeB kib like that?” Such qaeetions sound 
senseIeB9 — yet they play an important pert in 
making articulation - tests on new types of telephone 
apparatus at. Bell Telephone Laboratories*'
In'making these tests» 633$ meaningless syllables 
are spoken — while observers record what they hear. 
Comparison of sounds actually spoken with those heard, 
shows how well the new apparatus reproduces the many 
sound a of. which speech is composed.
Snch thoroughiiegs is typical of Bell'SyGtem methods. 
Years of inventing,' improving and’testing have'led to 
the apparatus which transmits your words 60 dearly.
Why not say "Hello” to Mother and 
Dad tonight? Bargain ratea.on sla- 
' tiori-to'suition calls after 8:30 P. 3i.
18ELI. TELBPHSNESYSTEM
ere is no need for a 
lot of whpigdoodle talk
about cigarettes 
just plain coMmon-sense
^^hen you stop to think about 
your cigarette—what it means to 
you — here's about 'the vvay you 
look at it^- 
Smoking a cigarette gives a lot 
of pleasure-r-it always has.
People have been smoking and 
enjoying tobacco in some, form or 
another for over 400 years.
Of course you want a cigarette 
to be made right. And naturally 
. you want.it"to be mild. Yet you 
want it to. bave the right.tasted— 
and plenty of it.
In other words—you want it 
to Satisfy.
e 193). oHUH77 a Unu Touca Co,
Scientific methods and rtpe mild to­
baccos make: Chesterfield a milder 
and better-tasting cigarette. We 
believe you will enjoy them.
