^40*''///.
The Newspaper of Carnegie-Mellon University, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania 15213, Volume 80, Number 12, January 14,1986.
Bye 578, AT&T—Hi 268, MCI
By STEPHEN VOLAN
Special to The TartanOn January 4, all CMU numbers on the 
‘578’ phone exchange were transferred to the 
newly-created ‘268’ exchange. In addition, 
the Housing Office contracted with MCI to 
provide better long-distance service to dor­
mitory phones at a lower cost to students 
than previously provided by AT&T.
Unfortunately, a December 6 Housing 
memo explaining the phone changes to resi­
dent students did not reach many who had 
already gone home for Christmas break, 
causing temporary confusion for them and 
their families when the students returned. 
Those students who live off-campus were not 
sent a November 18 memo from the Office 
of Telecommunications which described the 
‘268’ change, despite its being addressed to 
the “Carnegie-Mellon Community”.
“The ‘578’ to ‘268’ changeover was
publicized in the [notification services] in 
October,” pointed out Shih Tung Ngiam, a 
Chemical Engineering junior. “Cornell 
changed its exchange over this break as well, 
but its students were informed of that by 
mid-semester.”
According to the administrator who made 
the decision to switch to ‘268’, Director of 
Telecommunications Robert Cape, the new 
‘268’ exchange will be used solely by 
Carnegie-Mellon. “This change is 
necessitated by the exhaustion of telephone 
numbers available to Carnegie-Mellon in the 
‘578’ exchange,” he said. CMU shared the 
‘578’ exchange with several organizations in 
Oakland, including Allegheny County 
Health Center, Carlow College and West 
Penn Hospital. The letters in CMU corres­
pond to the numbers ‘268’ on the telephone 
keypad.
CMU’s Centrex service remains unchang­
ed with the new ‘268’ prefix. Telephones in 
all CMU dormitories and offices retained 
their same four-digit extensions when the 
switch was made last Saturday, except for the 
numbers assigned to Computation Center 
computers.
The series of numbers beginning with 
‘578-9700’, which are used to ’’dial-up” to the 
public Computation Center mainframes 
from remote locations, will remain the same 
indefinitely, as they have never been Centrex 
numbers. Since ‘9’ is the digit used to signal 
entry of a non-Centrex number, Centrex ex­
tensions cannot begin with it; in order to dial 
the computers from on-campus, therefore, 
a user has to dial ‘9-578-9700’ instead of just 
‘9700’.
“There’s a one-time charge of several thou­
sand dollars to move the numbers onto Cen­
trex, and a monthly charge of several hun­
dred dollars,” said Tom Bajzek, Computa­
tion Center Director. “There’s no need to 
change [right now], but were not ruling out 
the possibility.”
The last time the University made a ma­
jor telephone number change was in 1977, 
when it switched virtually all of its numbers 
from scattered exchanges to the ‘578’ ex­
change. “We don’t know why they didn’t put 
the dial-ups on Centrex then,” said Bajzek. 
’’[It’s possible they feared] that...on-campus 
calls would dominate the dial-ups [because 
they are no-cost].”
A minor side-effect of ‘268’ on the part 
of long-distance services is their lack of 
acknowledgement of the change. For a few 
days, some companies outside the 412 area 
code did not know of the new exchange, and 
subsequently calls to CMU could not be 
completed without the assistance of a Pitt­
sburgh operator.
continued on page 2
Alumni give $212,089
By LISA KAGEL
Tartan Staffwriter
Although the student phonathon occurs 
every year, the 1985 fund raiser stands out 
as extraordinary. Organized by the Annual 
GivingOffice, this year’s group saw an in­
crease of 202% over the amount pledged last 
year.
A total of 22 CMU groups participated in 
the event designed to obtain pledges from 
alumni. According to Jay Carson, Associate 
Director of Annual Giving, “We asked all 
campus groups to participate. We sent re­
quests through the fraternities and sororities 
and then through all other groups. We had 
a real good response.”
Carson said he tried to set up this year’s 
callers for success by having them contact 
past donors. Alumni who had never pledg­
ed received letters asking for their help.
“We tried to make this year more fun,” 
said Carson, who talked about the pizza par­
ty, hoagie parties, and Halloween party that 
volunteers experienced during the
phonathon. “I dressed up as a computer 
nerd and DU came with masks,” said Car­
son. In addition to these celebrations, 
volunteers received a sweatshirt instead of 
the usual t-shirt.
In order to make the calling more in­
teresting, the students called people with 
similar interests to their own. “Kids called 
people in their major. They called alumni 
from their fraternity. We tried to set them 
up to succeed, and they came through like 
champs,” said Carson.
Jon Leach from Theta Xi shone as the in­
dividual who raised the most money. His 
pledges totaled $21,911. He won two tickets 
to Florida plus $200 spending money for his 
effort. Andy Robitshek, also from Theta Xi 
won two tickets for any domestic flight on 
Eastern Airlines for having 96 increases, 
more than any other individual.
Groups including Theta Xi, Sigma Nu, 
Kappa Delta Rho, the Student Dormitory 
Council, and 6 C & D, 7 C Moreword 
Gardens received $100 for their outstanding
photo by Rayro FarbarikoPresident Cyert congratulates top seven fund raisers.
participation.
All of the participants, who raised a total 
of $212,089, were invited to the Student 
Phonathon Victory party. Guests included 
Vice President for Development A1 Brannick 
and Dr. Cyert who thanked students for their 
help.
Commencement : 1986
By VIJAY REDDY
Tartan News Editor
Carnegie-Mellon’s main commencement 
ceremony will be held on Monday, May 12 
at 10 am in a tent on the lawn in front of 
Skibo. Doctor’s candidates will be hooded 
and presented their diplomas on stage at this 
ceremony. Bachelor’s and master’s can­
didates are awarded their degrees en masse, 
by college and degree, and will then receive 
their diplomas at departmental diploma 
ceremonies following the main ceremony.
The departmental diploma ceremonies 
B "ill begin around noon and last approx­
imately one hour. Department receptions 
"HI be held after the diploma ceremonies. 
The locations of these ceremonies have not 
yet been finalized.
This spring a detailed information letter 
"ill be mailed to parents. A few weeks before 
commencement, the academic departments 
"ill distribute information packets to 
students which will include information on 
robing area locations, processional and tent 
bating instructions, diploma ceremony loca­
tions and five free commencement an­
nouncements. Additional announcements 
will be sold in the Bookstore. Students who 
are not at the university this semester should 
call their department and ask that a packet 
be mailed to them.
Tickets are not required for admission to 
the main commencement ceremony and 
seating is first-come, first-served. Tickets are 
required for the Saturday night dinner buf­
fet and the Sunday night Alumni Awards 
Banquet. Seniors can get their three com­
plimentary tickets in the Skibo Lobby the 
week before commencement. Additional 
tickets will be sold at the Skibo Information 
Desk at the beginning of May for eight 
dollars. Tickets for the Alumni Awards Ban­
quet are available from the Alumni Office 
for twenty-five dollars each.
All campus parking lots will be available 
on commencement day and arrangements 
have been made with the City for parking 
on Forbes Avenue and in various locations 
in Schenley Park. Parents will receive Pitts­
burgh Park Police approved windshield
cards that identify them as CMU com­
mencement guests.
Degree candidates do not need to order 
caps and gowns. They are rented by the 
university for use on commencement and 
can be picked up in the Bookstore the 
Wednesday, Thursday, and Friday before 
commencement. Doctor’s candidates need to 
leave a refundable deposit on the hoods in 
the Bookstore.
There will not be a main commencement 
speaker but the three recipients of honorary 
degrees will each give a brief speech. The 
three recipients are: George Bugliarello, 
President, Polytechnic Institute of New York, 
Fred W. Friedly, Edward R. Murrow Pro­
fessor Emeritus, Columbia Graduate School 
of Journalism, and George B. Dantzig, Pro­
fessor of Operations Research and Computer 
Science, Stanford University. In addition, a 
student will be selected to speak on behalf 
of the senior class. Nominations are submit­
ted by Student Senate, the college deans and 
various student groups to Dean Braden 
Walters .
Carson said he would like to make next 
year’s phonathon even more successful with 
better prizes. “We’re going to have the 
phonathon committee steer next year’s 
phonathon. We’ll have the committee get 
feedback as to what the students really want. 
We don’t want to guess.”
As a conclusion to this year’s event, on 
May 8, Annual Giving will conduct a 
“Thank you Phonathon” run by seniors. “We 
have tentative plans right now, maybe we 
continued on page 2
In This Issue:
News
Drama Masters Degree.......page 3
Features
Make-A-Wish.............................page 5
Terrorism...................................page 7
Entertainment
Holiday Films.............................page 9
Hagar the Horrible...................page 9
Sports
Basketball..................................page 15
Editorial.....................................page 20
ACME.......................................page 23

---------------------------------------------------

Page 2—The Tartan—January 14, 1986
# Hie tdtl Presentation Cursor Preferences
? The tliddle Eost Cr»s i 3 [H^weRigM^m 
Key Players in ftiddiBS&BSEllflHESS 
* Hussein af Jordor Moue Doivn
- Hub or ek. of Egypt ........ '—
- fÜ33ad of Syria Sort %S •
- Peres of Isroel
? ftrab Hat ions face reality
- Jordan’s surprise renewal of relations »ith Cairo
- ft ne* olignaent of ftrab states, find ftrab aoderat.es.
- Breaking the paralysis of Arab politics.
- *... t he ftrab »or I d needs Egypt, »ore than Egypt needs the fir 
{? (Israel ’s Pi le»o}
“Ha stability in Lebanon“ (Schiff)
'U.S. policy needed” (El-Sherif)
- 'Palestinian prob Ie» prevails“ (Hi jab)
- 'Staleaote Possible?“ (ftbrahaa)Women's
HealthServices
And you didn 't mean to be? 
For 3 tree pregnancy test and 
confidential help, call 
Birthright at 741-3491.
CMU's phone changes
continued from page 1
“One or more [long-distance] carriers, 
most notably AT&T, failed to configure toll 
switches around the country to permit calls 
to the previously unused exchange,” Cape 
pointed out. “We believe that [on] Mon­
day...all carriers completed this configura­
tion and that out-of-state calls should be 
reaching CMU successfully.”
Cape suggests, however, that the problem 
is probably not completely solved. “It may
Carnegie-Mellon University President 
Richard M. Cyert received six awards in 
1985 marking his achievements.
The list includes:
• Education Leader of the Year, 
awarded by the Pennsylvania Chamber of 
Commerce.
• Industrialist of the Year, given by the 
Western Pennsylvania Chapter of the Socie­
ty for Industrial Realtors.
• The David Glick Award, presented 
by the W7orld Affairs Council of Pittsburgh.
• The Annual Brotherhood Award,
happen that [a few] private telephone com­
panies have not yet similarly configured their 
equipment. Furthermore, PBXs in com­
panies and government buildings may still 
be blocking calls to the previously non­
existent exchange,” he said. “.. .You should be 
prepared to tell the CMU operator the area 
code and telephone number of the party still 
experiencing difficulty in reaching CMU; we 
will attempt to contact the party to explain,” 
he advised.^
given by the Western Pennsylvania Chapter 
of the National Conference of Christians 
and Jews.
• The Distinguished Pennsylvanian 
Award, presented by the William Penn 
Society.
• The First Person of Vision Award, 
given by the Pennsylvania Blind Association.
Dr. Cyert, Carnegie-Mellon’s president 
sice 1972, was frequently cited for his con­
tributions to higher education and to the 
economic revitalization of western 
Pennsylvania.
Director of Housing Tony Martin, who 
made the decision to switch the dorms to a 
new long-distance service with assistance 
from Cape, approved of MCI for several 
reasons. Besides MCI’s standard rates being 
‘dramatically less’ than AT&T’s, Martin said 
that MCI all but freed the Housing Office 
and the University from tedious billing tasks.
MCI will now bill each individual room 
separately, and will now directly handle 
delinquent bills, problems which originally 
prompted Housing to find a new long­
distance service. “One reason we looked for 
a new company was that we wanted Hous­
ing to be freed as much as possible from 
long-distance collection,” said Martin.
Previously, Housing personnel had to ad­
dress each AT&T bill by hand every month, 
and deliver the bills through Campus Mail. 
Also, if a student had a delinquent bill, all 
the students who roomed with him would 
have their phone service cut off in their 
rooms, even if a new academic year had 
started, and even if those students lived with 
new roommates.
With MCI, Housing no longer plays the 
middleman. According to the Housing 
memo, MCI bills will be sent directly to the 
residents of the room. Another MCI feature 
permits a student to distinguish calls on his 
room’s bill from those made by his room­
mates. Simply by dialing ‘9’, the area code 
and number, and, “after a tone, [a] two-digit 
accounting code [determined in advance by 
the residents of the room],” students -- as well ’ 
as the Housing Office -- can now separate i 
their calls with ease. MCI, according to the 
Housing memo, provides these additional 1 
long-distance service “at a savings of 
25-30% below AT&T rates” for standard ser­
vice. I
Students will need to push a few more but- I 
tons to use other companies’ services, 
however To use an alternate long-distance 
service such as SPRINT, US Telecom, or 
AllNet, student customers must dial the 
local access computer’s phone number (e.g.: 
‘950-0777’ for SPRINT), then their old ac- j 
cess code, and finally the area code and 
number. AT&T is no longer available direct- 1 
ly, but only through opera tor-assisted calls | 
after dialing ‘9-0’.
In fact, MCI is now the permanent | 
default for all dorm phones. “If we wanted § 
secondary long-distance carriers, we would 
have to pay extra for that,” said Martin.
“It doesn’t bother me that they chose MCI, 
it bothers me that they didn’t even ask us | 
first,” said Shep Bostin, a sophomore inmH&SS and a resident who uses US Telecom.
“It’s [also] difficult to get directory assistance, 
and operator intervention is required for any j 
calls not using MCI.”
Steve Schlick, an ECE sophomore, com­
mented, “There seems to be a pause on the j 
[MCI] line when you’re not talking: it takes f 
a second to hear your voice [echo back in 
your receiver]. It makes your whole conver­
sation sound choppy.”
The long-distance service now being pro­
vided to students by MCI is not new to CMU. 
Cape noted that MCI has been supplying all 
administrative, faculty and staff offices with 
WATS lines since August 1984. However, this 
fact did not influence the choice of MCI for 
CMU dorms, Martin said.
Bring order to the Middle East
If your term paper on The Middle East 
Crisis is suffering its own border skirmishes, 
we recommend a Macintosh™
With programs like Think Tank™you 
can build exhaustively detailed outlines that 
prevent tlie rewriting and retyping that can 
aim a six day war into a three month project
Another example of how Macintosh 
helps students work smarter, quicker and more 
creatively.
And the beauty of Macintosh is,you don’t 
have to know diddley about computers 
to use one. If only Kissinger had it 
this easv
ç WS-> Apple (imputer. Onp Apple and tlx- Apple logo .uè rvgiservd trademark' of Apple Computer. Inc Macintosh è. a trademark ol McIntosh Ijboratorv, Inc and is heilig used with its express permission.Hunk lank is a trademark of thing Videotext yST
Dr. Cyert honored
Alumni
continued from page 1
will hold it out on the driveway. We’ll have 
seniors call donors and thank them for their 
gift. Every time people hear from us its 
‘please give,’ so we want to thank them. We 
want seniors to do it because they will still 
be around. We’ll have a party for them, ” 
said Carson.
CaTSOn said seniors would call alumni' | 
from the area to which they will move, and 
the phonathon may give them an opportuni­
ty to make some connections.
In addition to thanking the alumni who 
gave, Carson had another thank you. “I’d 
like to thank all students for their help. 
Thanks for the support. You should feel 
good.”
Confidential
Counseling
107 6th 8t. »Downtown Plh.
(41«) 868-1900
Gvn Check-Ups
j. Abortion Services
• Free Pregnancy Tests..
PREGNANT?

---------------------------------------------------

January 14, 1986-The Tartan—Page 3
On Tuesday, November 26, 1985 a 
sophomore drama student, Tom Auclair, 
passed away in Shadyside Hospital. He was 
21 years old.
lom had been in the hospital for the treat­
ment of a kidney infection. He had an 
allergic reaction to an iodine dye injection 
used in a test and died of an aphylactic 
shock.
Catholic services were held on November 
SO at the St. John Neumann Church in 
Strongsville, OH where his parents Mr. and
Drama Department offers master's degree
curriculum. In the final year of the pro­
gram, participants will spend almost all of 
their time in organizing, preparing and 
rehearsing for Pittsburgh Public Theater 
productions.
Admission to the program is by audition. 
Auditions will be held in New York, Chicago, 
San Francisco and Pittsburgh in February 
and March. They begin in New York, Feb. 
12-14 at the Minskoff Studios, 1515 Broad-
way at 45th Street; continue in Chicago, Feb. 
19-20 at the McCormick Center Hotel, 
Lakeshore Drive and 23rd Street; move to 
San Francisco, Feb. 22 — 25 at the Fort 
Mason Center, Laguna and Marina 
Boulevards, and conclude at Carnegie 
Mellon, March 8-10.
Shapiro stressed that stipends and scholar­
ships are available to all participants. “We 
want to make our program accessible to all
actors with creative, magnetic potential,” he 
said. “Developing superior acting skills and 
the breadth of knowledge to be an actor with 
a long-term career is an expensive process. 
We’re delighted to be able to offer this rare 
educational experience. It is characteristic 
of the tradition and performance of 
Carnegie Mellon’s Drama Department.” 
For audition appointments and details 
call (412) 268-2392.
Alumni Office employs students 
to increase alumni awareness
In an effort to increase alumni awareness 
of the university — its programs, goals, and 
needs — the Alumni Office is going to 
employ 50 to 60 students to personally visit 
alumni over the summer months. The 
students will be freshmen, sophomores, or 
juniors from all disciplines, and, for this 
summer only, they must be residents of the 
Pittsburgh area. Twelve thousand of our for­
ty thousand alumni reside within 50 miles
of the university.
Over the next four years, however, the 
Alumni Office will be using students from 
all over the country.
The student ambassadors will be thank­
ing alumni for their past support, updating 
them on changes which have taken place 
since they graduated, and informing them 
of the upcoming capital campaign and how 
it will effect student life. These students will
not ask for or accept a gift.
A selection committee consisting of facul­
ty, staff, and administration will be inter­
viewing applicants and deciding on the 
“Final Fifty” by mid-February.
Any interested students should apply at 
the Alumni Office 5017 Forbes Avenue (the 
old Theta Xi Fraternity House), by January 
31, 1986. If you have any questions contact 
Tammy Dieter at 268-2060.
PITTSBURGH —Carnegie Mellon 
University’s Drama Department will in­
augurate a master’s degree program in ac­
ting co-sponsored with the Pittsburgh Public 
Theater next September.
Mel Shapiro, head of the Drama Depart­
ment, said the new three-year program of­
fers professional actors the opportunity to ex­
pand their abilities.
During the first two years students will 
concentrate on performance and technical 
skills covering a broad range of theater 
heritage.
“In addition,” Shapiro said, “the faculty 
will develop a complete climate for the stu­
dent actor to experience as each important 
theatrical genre is studied.”
Specific attention will focus on acting 
styles ranging from Greek to Elizabethan 
« and turn-of-the-century approaches, 
Shapiro said.
Movement, voice, speech and acting 
techniques compose other segments of the
MITRE
An t>qu<il opportunity employer.
„ Time to... Care More, Share More
Lewis’ SSW0*
813 S. Aiken Avenue • Shadyside 
682-4063
Real World Solutions To Real World Problems$4.00 OFF HAIRCUT 
EXPIRES 2-28-86
The MITRE Corporation has established an Artifi­
cial Intelligence Technical Skills Center to serve as 
the corporation's central Al research, development 
and technical consulting resource. MITRE engi­
neers and scientists were pioneers in automatic 
symbol manipulation 20 years ago and today we 
are recognized as one of the nation's leading 
Al organizations with a staff of over two dozen 
experts utilizing multi-million dollar resources 
featuring 15 Symbolics LISP machines networked 
to four VAX 780s.
MITRE serves as CM Systems Engineer for the U.S. 
Air Forces' Electronic Systems Division and other 
government clients. Our Al programs range from 
primary research such as developing tool sets to 
automatic programming, automatic repair and 
redundancy and to expert systems. Expert systems 
MITRE has developed include NASA space shuttle 
fuel loading and scheduling systems for crew 
activities and payload preparation; a naval maneu­
vers system for the Navy; and aircraft mission 
organization for the Air Force. Other expert sys­
tems underdevelopment involve intelligence 
analysis, situation monitoring and fault detection 
and diagnosis for applications such as target 
planning and scheduling, new weapons, mid-air 
refueling and troop allocations.
Career Opportunities
MITRE is seeking to substantially expand its 
Al Center with highly motivated Al experts who 
would enjoy working with an interdisciplinary 
staff in a highly interactive, enihusiastic organiza­
tion that offers the best of academic, research and 
contractor environments. Candidates should pos­
sess a related BS/MS degree, formal training or 
experience in Al programs, and the initiative to 
determine the direction of our Al work as well as 
be involved in programs development. Opportu­
nities exist in the following areas:
Expert Systems Planning Systems 
Knowledge Representation Intelligent User Interfaces 
Automatic Programming Natural Language Understanding
If interested and qualified, please reply in strictest 
confidence to: Harold I. Matzkin, The MITRE 
Corporation, 2107 Middlesex Turnpike, Bedford, 
MA 01730. U.S. Citizenship is required for all 
positions.
Other C*l and civil systems engineering positions 
are also availableat MITRE's Washington D C. 
facility. If interested please forward a resume to 
Ms. M.X. Mason, The MITRE Corporation,
1820 Dolley Madison Blvd., McLean, VA 22102.

---------------------------------------------------

Maybe there is a
substitute fcr experience.
After you’re done with school, you face one of 
the hardest lessons in life:Without experience, it’s f • tough to get a job. And without a job, it’s tough to get experience.
At The Wall Street Journal, we recognize that experience is something you don’t start earning until after you graduate.But while you’re waiting, we can give you a head start by providing some of the same competitive advan tages that experience brings.
For instance, our wide-ranging news coverage gives you a clearer understanding of the whole complex world of business.
Our tightly focused feature reporting prepares you for your more specific ambitions—whether in 
management, accounting, finance, technology, marketing or small business.
And our in-depth analysis helps you formulate your ideas in a sharper and more persuasive way.
Call 800-257-1200,* ext. 899- or mail the coupon—and start your subscription to The Wall Street | Journal at student savings of up to $44 off the regular subscription 
price.That’s a pretty generous offer. Especially when you consider 
what it actually represents. Tuition for me real world.
lib subscribed800-257-120^1 exL899 toll-free.Or mail to: The Wall Street Journal. 200 Burnett Road,Chicopee. \1A 01021? Send me one year of The Wall Street Journal for $63—« sating of$44 off the regular subscription price.? Send me 15 weeks for $26. ? Payment enclosed.? Bill me later.
Student
Address____
City,
-Grad. Month/Year_
.State.
. Major _
-Zip.
These prices are v.ilid fora limited time tm stinh nts ttuk iivihr continental I S. By placing 
your order, you atithorize The Wall Street Journal to verify the enrollment information supplied above.TheWfcU Street Journal.The daily diarv of the American dream.
_____ ~ ______ _______ _______ _______ _______ 7INK1.
$ 'In IVim-« h..nt,. cafl W» Z£i XMU-st »W ¦ MC» Ik« h»
The Tartan Camegie-Mellon
LITTLE ATHENS
2103 Murray Avenue 
Pittsburgh, PA 15217 422-1330
JHH^ Open 11 AM — 11 PM All Week <UM>
WHY GO ALL THE WAY TO GREECE? 
WHEN LITTLE ATHENS CAN COME TO YOU!
MENU
BYROS .................................................. SZ.35
SHISHKfiBOBS ....................................... JZ.85
SHISHKHBOB DIMMER salad nee skewer of rnc.il pasir/ . . $5.60
6REEK5ALAD ....................................... $1.65
ARTICHOKE SALAD .............................. $Z.OO
6RAPE LEAUE5 ..................................... $2.25
H0MM0US chck pea dip • . . • ¦ .......................... $1.40
BABA BHAMQ6E eggplant d'p .... ................... $1.40
COMBIMATlOn PLATTER rce salad meal . ......... $3.70
FALAFIL •ned ground ch*ck peas w on or a*>d parsley • . ............. $1.70
CHEESE & SPINACH PIES........................ $1.10
RICE PUDDIMG ....................................... $ .75
BREEK PASTRIES .................................... $ .50
FREMCH FRIES ....................................... $ .75
Plus Tax
U/E DELIVER FREE
S5.0Q Minimum
umy
<03333»
OP
THERE ARE SENATE VACANCIES
1 in CIT 
1 in MCS 
1 in HSS 
1 in SUPA
LUNCH 11 AM — Z PM
DinriER 
5 PM — 11 PM
Presi
p
Petitions available at Skibo information 
desk January 14—January 28. All activity 
fee-paying students eligible.
Funded bv studeni activities fee
L

---------------------------------------------------

Features.
Program grants dying children a wish
By A’DORA PHILLIPS
Tartan Staffwriter
Geòrgie, an eight-year-old Steelers fan 
with leukemia, just wanted an autograph­
ed football. Instead, through the work of 
*Make-A-Wish volunteers Michelle Atkins 
and Cindy Gray, and the support of the 
Steeler’s Football Team, Geòrgie received a 
special autographed football, watched the 
Steeler’s practice on November 22, met his 
idols Mark Malone and Louis Lipps, and 
had his picture taken with Coach Chuck 
Noll. But that was only the beginning of a 
wish-filled weekend. He was also treated to 
a belated birthday party at Chuck E. 
Cheese’s in Bridgeville and on Sunday, 
Geòrgie and his family went to the Steelers
* game with special press box seats. It was one 
child’s wish come true.
Make-A-Wish Foundation of Pittsburgh is 
making more than one child’s wish come 
true. In 1985 alone this relatively new, non­
profit organization granted almost one hun­
dred wishes. Miss Kelley O’Toole, Chairman 
of Public Relations, explained the wide 
range of these wishes, from trips to Disney 
Wold to the most unusual one granted in 
1985 to Chuck Jesse, a young man with 
leukemia. Chuck loves to fish, but the
* seventeen-year-old is confined to a 
wheelchair and cannot go to a lake or river. 
He wished for a fishing pond of his own on 
the brook behind his home in Prosperity in 
Washington County. Various businesses in 
Pittsburgh donated the materials needed to 
construct this wish, so that the only expense 
to the foundation was fuel to run the 
machines.
“It is really wonderful,” says Kelley 
O’Toole, “to see the enthusiastic response to 
Make-A-Wish. Not one place has turned us 
^ down yet when we’ve gone to them for help.”
It is this enthusiasm, support, and good 
will which has made the Pittsburgh chapter 
such a successful one. Now the most active 
in the United States, this branch was begun 
by Marcia Clark in March of 1983. The mis­
sion of the organization is “to fulfill the 
special wishes of children aged two-and-a- 
half through seventeen who are suffering 
from life-threatening illnesses and to include 
their families in every aspect of the wish.”
I met Geòrgie and his family on a 
' beautiful November weekend at Three 
Rivers Stadium His father wheeled him in­
to the Steelers offices, where I had been 
waiting. Teenagers were in groups, murmur- 
ring among themselves and eagerly awaiting 
their idols to leave the practice field, clut­
ching pictures and blank sheets of papers 
which would soon be autographed by 
favorite stars.
Photographs line the walls and trophies 
sit in special glass cases throughout the of­
fices. I immediately recognized Geòrgie and 
*. his family as the wish participants when they 
arrived. Geòrgie was in a wheelchair, his tiny 
frame strapped safely into the seat. His huge 
blue eyes seem to take in the entire world. 
His freckles stand out against pale skin. 
Jessica, his five-year-old sister, was almost as 
excited as he was about meeting Louis Lipps. 
They waited for an autographed football 
after watching practice, and were promised 
an introduction to Coach Chuck Noll.
“Geòrgie, look up at me,” demands Jessica, 
’his five-year-old sister. She is holding a 
camera, waiting to take a picture of Geòrgie, 
with Coach Chuck Noll, standing beside the 
wheelchair. Geòrgie is smiling. His Steelers 
cap keeps slipping down on his forehead. 
Finally, Jessica snaps a picture, just as he 
bashfully bends his head.
"Geòrgie, I didn’t get your face,” yells 
Jessica. The camera snaps again. “I got you 
9 Geòrgie.” “Mommy,” she laughs, “I got a pic-
* ture of him!” Her mother smiles. Within 
minutes we set out for Chuck E. Cheeses’s
Pizza Place in Bridgeville, where Georgie was 
treated to a special birthday party.
The funds to support this organization 
and to help construct these wishes were 
gathered from a combination of sources. 
About thirty-one percent of the donations 
needed to direct the mission of this Foun­
dation are from individuals. Another 
twenty-eight percent comes for various cor­
porate foundations, and twenty-six percent 
comes from clubs. The remaining fiften per­
cent of Make-A-Wish’s funding comes from 
schools and churches. Known as the “quiet 
organization”, elaborate fund-raising drives 
have not been held, although wish par­
ticipants are increasing at such a rapid rate 
that money and the possibility of fund­
raising is becoming a concern. Only a small 
percentage of the money raised goes toward 
administrative and organizational costs. 
Eighty percent of the donations made to this 
foundation are funneled directly into the 
generation and construction of wishes.
As well as material support from Pitt­
sburgh area residents and corporations are 
the time and love which Make-A-Wish 
volunteers put into their work. Michelle 
Atkins, Chairman of the Wish Committee 
and with Make-A-Wish since its origination 
in 1983 says, “Working on the wish commit­
tee is one of the most satisfying of Make-A- 
Wish assignments, but it is also one of the 
most demanding. Seeing a wish come true 
makes us realize that all the time we spend 
on Make-A-Wish is really worthwhile.”
Any family who would like to receive help 
from this organization must first contact 
them through mail, initiating contact with 
the Make-A-Wish Foundation. It does not 
necessarily have to be the family of the child. 
In fact, it was a friend of Georgies mother 
who first contacted Make-A-Wish. She 
wanted to get him an autographed football 
for Christmas, but was uncertain about how 
to contact the Steelers. A co-worker men­
tioned Make-A-Wish, so she contacted them. 
Although “Steelers wishes” are favorite ones 
of area youth, and Georgies wish was not 
unusual for the Pittsburgh branch, it still 
took Cindy and Michelle almost six weeks 
to organize his wish after the foundation was 
notified.
After Make-A-Wish receives notification 
of a possible wish child, they call the doctor 
to verify the nature of the illness. With 
twenty-four to forty-eight hours of receiving 
that letter, they try to contact the family. It 
is at this point that a child’s dream begins to 
assert itself in reality. Initial information 
such as where the family lives and what the 
wish is about is taken over the phone. Wish 
committee volunteers then meet with the 
family and talk to the child to find out if 
this is his wish or “Aunt Sally’s.” “We ask them 
what they dream of when they go to sleep 
at night,” said Atkins.
How they proceed from there depends 
upon the nature of the wish. A typical wish 
is one like Georgies or a wish which was 
granted to Sean Coligan on November 4, 
1985. The McDonald boy wanted to go on 
a shopping spree at Children’s Palace on his 
seventh birthday, which was on November 
11. However his condition was such that he 
was susceptible to infection and couldn’t be 
a part of a crowd. The Bridgeville Children’s 
Palace opened its doors to him and his 
mother at 7:00 a.m. on his birthday so that 
they could stage their shopping spree in 
private. Other “formula” wishes include one 
recently granted to Jimmy, who is six and has 
leukemia. He was given an Atari and game 
cartridges at a birthday party at Chuck E. 
Cheese’s in a local mall. Or Sean, eleven who 
also suffers from leukemia and was given a 
miniature Doberman puppy along with dog 
license, leash, collar, supply of dog food and 
free veterinarian services for his new pet.
If it is a celebrity wish such as meeting a
Hollywood star, the wish committee team 
contacts somebody who can set up a 
meeting. Often, celebrity wishes are out of 
their control. When children go out to meet 
Mr. T, for instance,they do not even know 
a specific day. If a child wanted to meet Mr. 
Rodgers, a children’s favorite at WQED in 
Pittsburgh, he may be picked up in a 
limosine in order to make the event even 
more outstanding and exciting in the child’s 
eyes.
Atkins, as Chairman of the four member 
Wish Committee, has the authority to grant 
a wish of up to $5,000. After the Wish Com­
mittee authorizes a wish, it is assigned to a 
“team” of two members, who work together 
to see the wish through to completion. “In 
granting wishes, Make-A-Wish emphasizes 
the wholeness of the family,” says Marcia 
Clark, former President and founder of the 
local chapter. “The family is never separated 
during a wish.” One child, however, recent­
ly qualified as a Make-A-Wish participant 
because his natural parents had abused him. 
He suffered liver and kidney damage, severe 
bums, nerve damage, and other injuries. He 
lived with a caring single parent who had 
adopted him, and he wanted to meet the 
Oak Ridge Boys, who were giving a concert 
at Pittsburgh’s Civic Arena. The Oak Ridge 
Boys agreed to the wish, stipulating that 
there was to be no publicity. Both parties 
stayed at the Hyatt across from the Arena. 
The singing group visited the youngster in 
the afternoon before the concert. The young 
boy and his parent were given terrific seats 
to the concert and later that night the child 
was sung to sleep by the Oak Ridge Boys.
Many of the children who are wish par­
ticipants have life-threatening illnesses and 
are going through vigorous and difficult 
treatment programs. The children and their 
families have much to worry about. A wish 
come true offers a respite from what for
many has been months or even years of pain 
and struggle. The foundation does all the 
planning and covers all expenses, including 
airline tickets, rental cars, meals, lodging, 
spending money, and admission fees to at­
tractions. It is a moment for the entire fami­
ly to be together without a strain, worry, or 
stress. It is for many a moment of laughter 
captured in photographs and caught within 
the memories of the child’s family. 
Sometimes, entire communities will even 
become involved in a wish. When Michael, 
a five-year-old sufering from Ewing’s Car­
cinoma, left for Disney World with his fami­
ly, three busloads of students from a local 
elementary school showed up with banners 
and signs and sang songs. The pupils had 
raised over $400 for Make-A-Wish and 
wanted to meet the Make-A-Wish child.
It is a Saturday afternoon. Georgie, his 
mother, and Jessica move towards the special 
family van which allows Georgie to travel 
with his family while in his wheelchair. It is 
about five o’clock in the afternoon —the sun 
is setting, the closing remark upon a 
beautiful autumn day. After arranging 
Georgie carefully in the back of the van, his 
mother begins to drive home. Georgie is 
holding onto his football. Both he and 
Jessica are wearing Steeler’s caps; they have 
tokens and rickets from Chuck E. Cheese’s - 
they hope to return there over Christmas to 
win a stufffed animal— and Georgie is clut 
ching a teddy bear given to him by Make- 
A-Wish volunteers. Along with the rolls of 
film which will soon be developed, these are 
the tangible reminders of the day suspend­
ed for a moment, the willingness of so many 
people to construct a child’s wish in reality.
“W7hat was your favorite part of the day, 
Georgie?” asks his mother.
He nods sleepily and smiles. “All of it.”

---------------------------------------------------

® cnr n r Featu
AT THE J.U.C.-THAT IS!
ewis’SW 
Orthodox kasihrut
Bye 578 ,AT &T—,
Hi7y2y6MC
Icyieo7n
Bcoicio oty7n
BMuCuteoyed
H6epu ayCC 6Mu
STUDENT CONTRACTS AVAILABLE
B’NAI B’RITH HILLEL - 
JEWISH UNIVERSITY CENTER
. SIS SOUTH BEI.LEPIELO AVENUE 
PlTTSSUHGH. PENNSYLVANIA 1S2IS 
4IS-S21-SS7S
THE DEADLINE FOR SUBMISSIONS IS 
FEBRUARY 1, 1986
HEWLETT-PACKARD
—from a place in your mind to a place in the market.
Hewlett-Packard is a special company looking for special people With 
over 7,000 products and an atmosphere that fosters individual achievement 
and personal growth, HP has earned its reputation as one of the best 
places to work We are seeking bold and innovative minds, thinkers who 
thrive on getting results, on seeing a project rhrough from concept to 
completion. We want graduates in Electrical Engineering, Mechanical 
Engineering, Computer Science, and other related technical disciplines who 
can originate an idea, communicate it to others, then develop it for today's 
highly competitive marketplace Sign up now for an interview at your 
placement office
Hewlett-Packard will be on campus January 21, 22 and 23, 1986.
What HEWLETTWLUM PACKARD
Hewlett-Packard Company is an Equal Opportunity/Affirmative Action Employer
DON’T HIDE YOUR BEST SIDE 
SUBMIT IT TO THE
OAKLAND REVIEW
poetry, fiction, one-act plays,
essays, black and white
photography and art
The Oakland Review welcomes submis­
sions from all CMU students. Please include 
a cover sheet with name, campus address 
and phone number — your name should 
not appear anywhere else on the 
manuscript. Place your submission at the 
Skibo information Desk, c/o the Editors, 
Oakland Review

---------------------------------------------------

January 14, 1986-The Tartan-Page 7
Free tonight? See Son of John at the Decade
By CHRISTY CASAMASSIMA
Tartan Features Editor
The band’s name is Son of John, but don’t 
be deceived, it’s not a cult band.
Son of John is one of Pittsburgh’s fastest 
rising bands, becoming increasingly popular 
Vith each gig.
Fitting in perfectly with the reawakening 
of traditional rock in the music industry, 
their style is simplistic — consisting of a 
singer, basist, and a drummer.
Both the basist, Craig Janik, and the 
drummer, Ken Gregg, are seniors at CMU. 
The singer, Bill Corfield, was previously the 
lead for The Core, an innovative Reggae 
band which has since split up.
Son of John started gaining popularity six
Terrorist
By KATHY MURTAUGH
Tartan Staffwriter
According to Secretary of State George 
Shultz, the Reagan administration is 
“prepared to use whatever measures are ef­
fective and necessary” to retaliate Kaddafi’s 
involvement in the December 27th airport 
^ tragedies in Rome and Vienna. Determin­
ing this measure, however, is easier said than 
done.
The administration is feeling pressure on 
many levels. Kaddafi’s threat, to bring ter­
ror to “American citizens in their own 
streets,” has many Americans fearing that we 
may be the next country to experience in­
ternational terrorism. European countries 
with economic ties to Libya are not only 
inonsupportive of our cause, but likely to 
apply pressure on the administration to 
remove Libyan sanctions. Dave Bartlett, an 
^adjunct instructor in Carnegie-Mellon’s 
history department, states, “I wouldn’t be too 
surprised if Kaddafi had intentionally 
manipulated his economic interests so that 
Europe was dependent on him and he on 
them.”
To do nothing, after the strong words 
we’ve already voiced against terrorism, would 
cause serious damage to our image. Bartlett 
states, “It’s a complicated image problem as 
well as an escalation problem.”
# Being that economic sanctions have not 
* been effective, the administration feels that 
military force may be necessary. The gravi­
ty of the situation leads us to wonder if it 
is our place to retaliate at all. According to 
Roy Heimowitz, a sophomore at Carnegie- 
Mellon, “A response made by Israel would 
be more justified than one made by the 
United States.” David Muskatel, also a 
sophomore at Carnegie-Mellon agrees, “If 
the attack had been made on an American 
airport, then we should take action.”
Although the deaths of 15 innocent
* Americans travelling abroad were tragic, it 
is still a relatively small number in com­
parison to deaths by causes other than ter­
rorism. Professor David Kaiser of Carnegie- 
Mellon’s history department states, “Frank­
ly, in terms of numbers, this is not a serious 
problem. Drunk drivers kill more people.
To President Reagan, who speaks out 
against people “who think it’s all right to 
shoot eleven year old girls,” it is a matter of 
r principle. But principle is the only aspect of 
the terrorism issue that is clear. Dealing with 
Kaddafi is tricky business. After Libya’s press 
agency described the attacks in Rome and 
Vienna as “heroic operations,” Kaddafi made 
a reverse statement, just one week later, 
stating that terrorists are “completely mad 
and vowed to fight terrorism.
Regardless of what Kaddafi’s true prin­
ciples are, his actions are of one who con-
* dones terrorism if not encourages it. But
* Kaiser speculates, “Once you’ve supported
months ago at off-campus parties and local 
rock clubs. Halloween night they played for 
a capacity crowd of over 100 college-aged 
kids at a party located in a delapidated Fifth 
Avenue mansion. The response was 
tremendous—since the music has a great 
beat and is danceable, everyone really got 
into it. In fact, when the band stopped for 
a break, the crowd didn’t want to let them
go-
Since then, the band has been keeping 
busy playing local rock clubs like The Elec­
tric Banana and is playing tonight at 9:30 
at The Decade.
One of their most pervasive features is that 
their song lyrics are based on intelligent, 
social and emotional commentary and spic­
ed with an upbeat rhythm. As far as
Crazies:
terrorists, it is difficult to stop. They could 
turn on you in revenge.”
Punishing Kaddafi is difficult since he 
seems to be the one pulling the strings. He 
knows he has his bases covered and is taun­
ting the United States to test him. 
Economically, he has the European nations 
tied to him and he has threatened to unite 
the Arab world against us. “In much of the 
Arab world, the United States is considered 
bad. If we think Kaddafi is wrong, then they 
support him,” explained Kaiser.
Ending terrorism goes much further 
beyond punishing Kaddafi. Bartlett states, 
“The terrorists undergo a spiritual, 
ideological training that makes them not 
fear death.” They are part of a large
classifications are concerned, Son of John fits 
in somewhere between early Police and 
REM.
A collection of their songs has been put 
on rotation at Pitt’s radio station, WPTS.
Most of the lyrics are meaningful while 
the tempo is hard and fast. This contrasting 
combination keeps the audiences rocking at 
the same time as being inspirational. “Say 
You Will,” their newly released song being 
aired on Pittsburgh radio, is representative 
of the band’s two-dimensional style. It is a 
song about committment and it’s sound is 
so good that it’s already being requested by 
fans.
President of Zapple Entertainment, a 
Pittsburgh booking agency said he hasn’t 
heard anything as good as this band in a
A sticky
organization and know only their small 
pieces of it. Therefore to question one ter­
rorist would not be much help in putting the 
whole puzzle together. They have a claim; 
spread terror as a means of calling attention 
to the claim, and are virtually impossible to 
pinpoint.
If the suppression of terrorism is beyond 
our efforts, where does the solution lie? The 
logical answer is to adhere to that claim. But 
Kaiser believes, “If a Palestinian state were 
created for the PLO whose government ac­
cepted the existence of Israel, there would 
still be terrorism against the government.” 
The problem lies in the fact that the people 
have been at odds for SO long that they 
wouldn’t accept one another.
long time. The key to their success is that 
the members agree on the basic principle 
that their music should remain 
unchanged — never substituting a keyboard 
for their simplistic sound.
Besides taping songs and playing clubs, 
Son of John was recently chosen to compete 
in Graffitti’s original music competition on 
January 25. The winner will either have 
1,000 ep’s distributed nationally or have a 
tape made and sent to MTV’s “Basement 
Tapes. ” Just six months together, Son of John 
is able to keep up with a number of 
established original Pittsburgh rock bands 
including After Hours and The Sponges.
Catch Son of John at The Decade tonight 
at 9:30‘, there is no cover and the music 
couldn’t get any better for dancing.
situation
Perhaps the facts make it difficult for 
Reagan’s actions against terrorism to have 
any revolutionary effect on the matter, but 
we can’t close our eyes and believe in a peace 
process in a world where terrorism is allow­
ed to exist.
Time to... 
Care More, 
Share More
Strang Out-of-Control?
Food ... You’re obsessed with it.You sometimes feel you can and want to live without it... but you really can’t. And it 
becomes a vicious cycle.Your goal is to stay in control. Actually, your eating habits are out of control. And so 
is your life. Your friends no longer call and, somehow your family just doesn’t understand.
Eating disorders — anorexia nervosa and bulimia — are life-threatening illnesses 
that undermine not only a person’s self-esteem, but also scnool and job performance, 
and relationships.Anorexia nervosa (self-induced starvation) and bulimia (the binge-purge syndrome) 
affect people from all walks of life.
Help is available ... the greater Pittsburgh area’s Anorexia Bulimia Treatment and 
Education Center (ABtec M) at The Medical Center of Beaver County has a specially 
trained staff to help you deal with your illness. ABtec offers a variety of services, including 
an inpatient program for those in the acute stage of illness, and the ABtec Support Group, 
which provides an opportunity for open discussion of feelings, attitudes and behaviors 
associated with these eating disorders.
Strung out-of-control? ABtec at The Medical Center of Beaver County can help you 
cut the strings that are tying you to your obsession with food.
Attend a Free ABtec Support 
Group Meeting This Saturday 
From 9:30 a.m. until Noon
c 1985. ABtec Services, Inc
ft
The Anorexia Bulimia Treatment 
and Education Center at
The Medical Center of Beaver County
KXX) Dutch Ridge Road 
Beaver, Pennsylvania 15009 
Within PA phone toll-free 
1-800-62ABTEC 
Outside FA phone toll-free 
1-800-78ABTEC

---------------------------------------------------

Scotland Yard
Now Open Five Days A Week
Wednesday from 4 p.m. to 12 a.m. 
Thursday through Saturday from 4 p.m. to 2 a.m.
Sunday from 4 p.m. to 8 p.m.
Interested in
Performing at 
Scotland Yard?
Call X4821

---------------------------------------------------

Entertainment.
Two standouts among holiday movies
By JOE FERRUGIA
Tartan Staffwriter
During this past holiday season Hollywood 
gave out many presents in the form of 
movies. Some, like Clue, were unexpected 
treats since nobody likes getting the same 
present as everyone else. Others, such as 
M Rocky IV were suitable for returning since 
we already have three others just like it; 
while Enemy Mine was a gift that just blew 
up in our faces. However, Out of Africa and 
The Color Purple were gifts that we hoped 
Santa would bring us this year.
The Color Purple marks director Steven 
Spielberg’s first “serious” film. It’s certainly 
a departure for the director famous for his 
stirring adventures and out-of-this-world- 
creatures that make excellent stuffed toys for 
Christmas. The Color Purple, the film adap­
tation of Alice Walker’s Pulitzer-Prize win- 
ning novel, is the story of Celie, a poor black 
woman in early 20th century Georgia. 
Wonderfully played by newcomer Whoopi 
Goldberg, the character of Celie is one to 
be pitied and cheered for. Raped by her 
father and separated from her sister as a 
young girl, Celie finds herself wed to a tyrant 
of a husband played by Danny Glover. Vir­
tually a slave to this man she calls “Mister,” 
she obediently takes care of his house and 
his children. It takes thirty years for Celie 
t to free herself from her husband, ironically 
with the aid of his own mistress, nightclub 
singer Shug Avery played by Margaret Avery. 
The part was originally meant for Tina 
Turner who turned it down because it 
resembled her own life too much. The lesser 
known Avery is, however, perfect in the role. 
There are some references to a lesbian rela­
tionship between Celie and Shug though the 
film doesn’t emphasize this as much as the 
book does. It is the friendship between the 
two that ultimately gives Celie the courage 
to confront her husband.
^ The Color Purple is more than just a story 
of one woman. It is more than just a story 
about blacks. It is a story about people, or­
dinary people in more than ordinary cir­
cumstances. The characters face situations 
that are difficult, funny, unusual, and harsh 
before the film reaches its end. But Celie 
and the other characters face dealing not on­
ly with others, but also with themselves. Celie 
must mature before she can be independent 
of Mister. The character of Sophia, Celie’s 
^daughter-in-law, brilliantly played by Opra 
Winfrey, must deal with the conflict between 
her own feelings of independence and the 
treatment that blacks had to endure at that 
time.
On the the surface, The Color Purple is 
a story of struggle. The film shows how or­
dinary people deal with often unbearable 
circumstances, though that is not its sole 
purpose. The film shows that the attitude 
with which one faces a problem is just as im­
portant as its solution. Indeed the underly­
ing theme of the movie is exactly that - hope.
Strong performances are abundant in this 
film. The characters seem sometimes cruel 
and merciless, sometimes funny and 
loveable, but they always seem real. That is 
the real source of the movie’s charm. The 
characters are not glittering models or jet- 
setting secret agents. They’re real people
who have to deal with their lives one day at 
a time. Their failures and successes are 
fascinating to watch.
Spielberg’s direction is a bit heavy hand­
ed at times. The scene where Mister drags 
Celie’s sister away was overdone. Fortunate­
ly these excesses are rare. In fact, most of 
the film is masterfully directed. The scene 
with Celie holding a razor at the neck of the 
unsuspecting Mister is so suspenseful that 
even Alfred Hitchcock would be proud of it. 
The film is definitely a triumph for 
Spielberg. The lines at the box office may 
still be quite long but The Color Purple is 
definitely worth the wait.
TARTAN MOVIE GRADE: 4.0
Another movie released over the winter 
break was Out of Africa. It’s the story of 
Karen Blixen the Danish noblewoman who 
chronicled her adventures in Africa under 
the pen name of Isak Dinesen. Meryl Streep 
is captivating as the stoic noblewoman. The 
film begins with Blixen’s marriage of con­
venience to Baron Blor Blixen (Klaus Maria 
Brandauer) and her move to Kenya in order 
to grow coffee. Upon her arrival, Blixen is 
faced with a rite of passage that includes 
everything from wild lions to British 
aristocrats. A remarkable woman, Blixen 
handles each with great courage.
Blixen’s growing relationship with the 
African natives is a pleasure to behold and 
one which adds greatly to the film’s charm. 
This relationship is one of mutual respect 
and admiration. Blixen treats the natives as 
people not as savages. The film doesn’t em­
phasize this aspect of Blixen’s life as much 
as it should.
Blixen’s devotion to the natives was not, 
however, the only aspect of her remarkable 
life. She also developed a relationship with 
Denys Finch Hatton, an aristocratic adven­
turer and war hero. Robert Redford plays 
the elusive white hunter as though he had 
discovered a soul mate in Hatton. Redford 
as Hatton remains a symbol of the spirit of 
Africa, free and untamed. Streep as Blixen 
is the perfect match for him. The passion 
between the two is quiet yet intense. Blixen 
tries in vain to bring the adventurer into her 
world while he gives her spectacular glimp­
ses of his. The scenes of Africa are absolutely 
breathtaking and alone are almost worth the 
price of admission.
Fans of Streep and Redford will un­
doubtedly find the movie one of the best 
they’ve seen in years. Redford’s performance 
is excellent and Streep’s is probably the best 
she has ever given. Kurt Luedtke’s screenplay 
is intelligent and touching. If you enjoy epics 
then this is the movie for you. Director 
Sydney Pollack (Tootsie, A bsence of Malice) 
has captured both the spirit of Africa and 
the spirit of Dineson.
If you like a good cry at movies then bring 
along your Kleenex and enjoy. There is, 
however, one aspect of the movie that is 
worth noting. It is long; almost three hours. 
See it in a comfortable theater and you will 
definitely enjoy the movie a lot more.
TARTAN MOVIE GRADE: 3.75
Newcomer Whoopi Goldberg stars in S teven Spielberg's newest release
The Color Purple
The Best of Hagar the 
Horrible: Funnies & More
By BRUCE KASREL
Tartan Entertainment Editor
Although there are no Hagar stuffed toys 
on the market like Bloom County or 
Peanuts, the comic strip Hagar the Horri­
ble still remains the most popular comic 
strip today. With over 1500 newspapers to 
its name, Hagar the Horrible has given 
millions of people a little bit of happiness 
every time they turn to the funny pages. 
After a very long wait, Hagar the Horrible 
has finally made an appearance on
there are a lot of “Hagars” around in todays 
technology-riddled world.
The genius behind Hagar is cartoonist Dik 
Browne, who has become a giant in the 
business. Before Hagar, Browne combined 
his artistic talents with Mort Walker, the 
creator of Beatle Bailey, to produce the 
popular “Hi and Lois” cartoon strip in 1954 
(which Browne does solo today). Although 
they received numerous awards and honors 
for the strip, Browne soon got weary of just 
drawing funny pictures and began to create
bookstore shelves. The Best of Hagar the 
Horrible (Holt, Rinehart, and Winston; 
$10.45 paper) by Dik Browne, delivers plenty 
of great strips and much more.
Hagar the Horrible started in early 1973, 
and since its release has become the most 
widely read comic strip in the world. With 
the exception of Lief Ericson and Fran 
Tarkenton,- Hagar is the most famous vik­
ing ever. Hagar is an ordinary guy with or­
dinary problems, the fact that he is a Vik­
ing only serves as an occupation. In fact,
his own character.
He reflected back on some old Norse 
legends his aunt had told him when he was 
a child. His hand sketched out a homed Vik­
ing helmet resting on top of an enlarged 
round nose. The cartoon barbarian’s stout 
frame was draped with a rumpled bearskin, 
his shield was hacked and worn, and the 
crowning touch was a snarled beard sur­
rounding his bewildered face. Thus, Hagar 
the Horrible came to be.
continued on page 11
Pittsburgh Ballet Theater begins Spring season
By LISA McANANY
Tartan Editor-in-Chief
Among the soot-stained warehouses and 
dark brick row houses which line Liberty 
Avenue in the Strip District, stands one 
remarkably clean brick building. A narrow, 
blue banner is strung across the front of the 
building and once you come abreast of this 
conspicuously nice building, you see that the 
banner reads “Pittsburgh Ballet Theatre.
How strange, finding a ballet studio amidst 
the garages and steel fences.
It’s hard not to be curious about the 
goings-on inside this glorified warehouse 
which professes to house a well-respected 
ballet company. Because it is always open 
to interested members of the public, you can 
walk in just to wander through the atrium 
filled with the sunlight coming through the 
peaked, glass skylight which runs the length
of the room, or ask for a tour of the studios, 
also partially lit through skylights, where 
dancers rehearse approximately eight hours 
per day for upcoming performances.
Behind these more glamorous parts of the 
ballet, however, are other staff members 
who, despite their lack of tights and toe- 
shoes, are just as important to the produc­
tion of a successful ballet as the dancers 
themselves. There is a wardrobe room where
costumes are conceived, designed and con­
structed exclusively for this company, and 
there is also a shoe room, which holds the 
stock of ballet shoes, for which the Pitts­
burgh Ballet must spend about $40,000 each 
year.
Down the hall from wardrobe are the ad­
ministrative offices where volunteers spend 
time sending out information on upcoming 
continued on page 10

---------------------------------------------------

Page 10—The Tartan—January 14, 1986
To design and develop today's most 
technologically advanced defense products, 
General Dynamics requires the talents of many 
highly motivated Engineering and Scientific 
graduates.
This year, nearly half of our 1,500 technical 
hires will be in Electrical/Electronic Engineering 
and Computer Science — goal-oriented, high- 
performance students who will graduate in the 
top half of their classes.
If you are one of these top performers, explore 
the wide range of opportunities available in the 
following technologies: Aeronautics, Advanced 
Signal Processing, Radar Systems, Embedded
VNAMICS
rtU.S. Citizenship Required
Pittsburgh Ballet Theater begins 1986 repertoire
continued from page 9
performances and taking care of daily 
business. This is also the realm of George 
Anne Bissett, Public Relations Director for 
the Pittsburgh Ballet. Among others, she 
and Colin Bissett, Managing Director of the 
company ensure that the ballet runs 
smoothly from a business perspective.
But the substance of the Pittsburgh Ballet 
goes far beyond the impressive $2 million 
facilities, which corporations like 
Westinghouse helped to finance. Though 
only sixteen years old, the Pittsburgh Ballet 
Theatre is one of the ten major companies 
in the United States. It is a classically based 
company, but the repertoire is diverse. The 
upcoming spring season is a mixed reper­
toire, which means that each performance 
will actually offer three separate ballets. On 
the bill are such classics as “Petrouchka” 
danced to the music of Stravinsky, as well 
as three world premieres which were created 
especially for the Pittsburgh Ballet.
As Artistic Director for the Ballet, Patricia 
Wilde net only offers her own expertise in 
danc-*, but demands similar virtuosity from 
the members of the company. At the New 
York City Ballet, where Wilde was the prin­
cipal dancer for fifteen years, she danced 
every major role in the repertoire, many of 
them created for her by George Balanchine. 
Many achievments followed Patricia Wilde’s 
brilliant performing career. As the first 
director of the Harkness School of Ballet in 
New York, she established one of the world’s 
most comprehensive training programs for 
young dancers. She assisted George Balan­
chine in establishing the school of the Grand 
Theatre of Geneva, Switzerland. For twelve 
years she was associated with the American 
Ballet Theatre, where she was ballet mistress 
and coach for the company. She has also 
been a guest teacher and coach here and 
abroad to such companies as New York Ci­
ty Ballet, Joffrey Ballet, Dance Theatre of 
Harlem and The Royal Ballet of Stockholm.
The company itself consists of thirty-two 
dancers, with varied and often distinguish­
ed backgrounds. In June 1985, two of the 
company’s dancers participated in the 
Moscow International Ballet Competition, 
where both recieved top honors. Twenty- 
year-old Pablo Savoye, PBT’s principal 
dancer, tied for the silver medal with a Soviet 
dancer. Another of the Company’s prin­
cipals, Maria Teresa del Real received a
special prize for the best performance of 
American Classics, an award which had 
always been presented for the best perfor­
mance of classical Russian ballets and never 
to anyone other than Soviet contestants.
The company has an active touring 
schedule as well. Having toured in thirty- 
seven states and abroad, the company tours 
every summer, in addition to taking their 
renowned production of “The Nutcracker” 
on the road every year. This does not pre­
vent the company from giving thirty-seven 
performances in 1985-86, all in Heinz Hall.
The Pittsburgh Ballet Theatre also boasts 
one of if not the best ballet school in the Pitt­
sburgh area. The school prides itself on its 
professionalism, but this should not 
discourage the beginner. Adult classes are of­
fered in twelve week semesters, year-round. 
The faculty of the school is made up of 
dancers with extensive performing, teaching 
and choreographic experience.
For this year’s spring season, the Ballet will 
perform three separate programs, each con­
sisting of three ballets. During the month of 
February, students who bring their Valen­
tine will receive a twenty percent discount 
on tickets. In conjunction with Chauncey’s,
the Ballet also offers a champagne dinner 
at Chauncey’s and a ticket to the ballet for 
$30 per person. In addition, students may 
receive a fifty percent discount on ticket 
prices for all Thursday night performances, 
if tickets are purchased within one hour 
prior to showtime.
February 6,7,8,9 -- Serenade (Tchaikovsky/ Balanchine), Rasa (Part/ Naharin) Scene Dansante (Glazounov/Levans)February 13,14,15,16 - Petrouchka (Stravinsky/Fokine) Raymonda Variations(Glazou- nov/Balanchine) Don Juan (Mozart/Zamuel)April 24,25,26,27 -- Konigsmark (Tchaikovsky/ Prokovsky) The Four Tempera ments (Hindemith/Balanchine), Cole (Cole Porter/Soulant) For more information on performances and subscrip­tion rates contact the Ballet at 281-0360.For more information about the Official School con­tact Kimberly Young at 281-0360 for a complete schedule of classes and adult evening classes offered to all adults on all levels.
Ballet Trivia
Tchaikovsky’s Nutcracker Ballet was met with such lit­
tle success that the composer nearly abandoned what 
symphony?
fcuoijtfuids ¡/^S1 aifji uamsuy
Software, Lasers and Electro-optics, Composite 
Structures, VLSI, Non-linear Structural Analysis, 
Robotics and CAD/CAM.
At General Dynamics, you will work with our 
innovative professionals in applying these 
technologies toward a wide variety of aerospace, 
computer systems, electronics, shipbuilding and 
military land vehicle programs. Plus, you can stay 
current in your field and make the most, of your 
career through our corporate-wide training and 
lifelong education programs.
Don't settle for less than state of the art in your 
career. See your Placement Office for a campus 
interview with General Dynamics.
DH 2210 FLICKS
By JOE FERRUGIA & MIKE NcHUGH
Special to The Tartan
Thursday Kind Hearts and Coronets
Imagine a scheming rogue (Dennis Price) 
killing off eight heirs to a fortune in order 
to lay a claim for himself. Add Alec Guin­
ness brilliant as all eight of the scoundrel’s 
intended victims and you have an hilarious 
English satire that is truly a comedy classic.
TARTAN MOVIE GRADE: 3.5
Friday Mask
The true story of Rocky Dennis, a teenage 
boy suffering from a rare, face-disfiguring 
disease. Cher gives an electrifying perfor­
mance as Rocky’s mother coping with her 
son’s handicap as well as her own personal 
problems. Eric Stoltz’s performance as Rocky 
is outstanding. Mask is an extraordinary 
movie, a story of hope and courage, sure to 
make you laugh and cry. A definite Oscar 
contender. »
TARTAN MOVIE GRADE: 4.0
Saturday Birdy
An unusual and touching story of two 
friends, A1 (Nicolas Cage) and Birdy (Mat­
thew Modine). Al’s a slick, self-confident 
romeo while Birdy is a goofy, withdrawn 
young man obsessed with birds. Returning 
from Vietnam, Birdy retreats from reality 
into his own ‘special“ world as A1 desperate­
ly tries to help him. Both actors give first rate 
performances in two difficult roles.
TARTAN MOVIE GRADE: 3.25
Movie Trivia
1. What were Citizen Kane’s Christian names?
What aging star, accepting the 1975 Best Support­ing Actor Oscar said: “If ypu stay around long enough you get to be new again?”
What substance was used in place of blood in the famous shower scene in Psycho?
What was the name of the dog in the Our Gang movies?AnswersWd >
33HDS 3JVJOJO (
suing 3%Jto»0 Z 
uBjsoj rajuni{j I
4.

---------------------------------------------------

January 14, 1986—The Tartan—Page 11
continued from page 9
The Best of Hagar the Horrible, for­
tunately, does not assume that we either 
already know this or don’t care, yet it is quite 
interesting as well as good introduction to 
the book. The book then proceeds to in­
troduce each character with strips that 
showcase all the different little traits each 
of the characters possesses Hagar, the gen­
tle warrior who just wants a fair chance; his 
wife Helga, dominant, powerful, understan­
ding, the real head of the household; his son 
Hamlet, who reads books rather than 
fighting like a good viking should; his 
daughter Honi, who is an attractive tom boy, 
looking for a husband as strong as she is; 
Snert the dog; Qvack the duck; Lucky Ed­
die, Hagars right hand man who can’t do 
anything right; and the rest of the clan. The 
analysis does get tedious when really obscure 
characters are featured.
The book continues with an 
autobiography of Browne along with many 
drawings and anecdotes. The book has over 
100 illustrations, almost all done by the 
author, and each gives testimony to the fact 
that Dik Browne is an excellent artist apart 
from being a cartoonist. Some the drawings 
that the book contains are exquisite, not 
something one would expect from the guy 
who draws Hagar. The collection of artwork
is extremely diverse, from the Campbell 
Soup Kids to homemade Christmas cards.
Even though the book devotes a large 
amount of copy to the author, The Best of 
Hagar the Horrible never loses sight the 
main reason why you bought the book — 
comic strips. Filled with almost 400 episodes 
of Hagar, the book is a laugh from cover 
to cover. This collection, contains the cream- 
of-the-crop Hagar, reproduced in mint con­
dition. You will probably want to cut out a 
few and hang them on your refrigerator, but 
use a copier because the strips on the other 
side are worth saving.
Like fine wine Hagar has only improved 
with age. Unlike many other comic strips, 
Hagar is not dependent upon what is going 
on in the White House or anywhere else. It 
is a comic strip about real life, family, and 
friends and that is what makes Hagar so fun­
ny. Hagar is to comic strips what The Cosby 
Show is to television. The $10.45 price 
tag for The Best of Hagar the Horrible is 
a little bit high, but is money well spent 
when you realize that most other comic strip 
books eventually wind up as toilet reading 
for guests.
THE BEST OF HAGAR THE HORRIBLE 
is available at the Campus Bookstore.
AMVTHIMG IMFDRTAIOT HAPPEN v wmte £ \IA)ASAUJAY ?
iceiL, let's see...rue edmanj empiRb 
60UAPS5D...TH6 ftVPK AGES 5TAPTEP IKJ 
JilUV... fclUG- CUM IS 
couveeTep the FRANKS. ..T He 
HUUS SACKEP 
OUR MILLA&e... 
AMP Youfc QLP PCXS> 
HAP PUPS
Hagar the Horrible reprinted by permission of CBS Publishing.
¦QUNTRY-
WILLIAMSBURG VA
Due to the loss of our audition applications by 
theft, it will be necessary for all people who 
auditioned in the following locations to 
reaudition:
Greensboro, N.C. 
Columbus, OH
Pittsburgh, PA 
Bloomington, IN
We apologize for the inconvenience and hope to see you at the “D'> *1 * *1 *1
Re-Audition 
date for your area:
‘Re-Auditions” !!!!!!!
PITTSBURGH, PAJanuary 14,1986 (Tuesday) Point Park College Studio 4 1 pm-5pm
Technicians do not have to re-audition.
Note: If you know of any one who attended 
auditions in these areas, please let them know 
about the re-auditions.
If you have any questions, please call the Live 
Entertainment Office, Busch Gardens, at
1 -800*253*3302
An Affirmative Action/Equal Opportunity Employer/M/F/H
? ??? ? ??? ? ?DPLnJ
«i i •• « •i • • i » • « » ! » •JV• ¦¦
NEXT SCHOOL?
Think about the time and energy spent 
educating yourself. Now you itch to 
apply your new skills and continue to 
learn. BBN has plenty of fascinating 
projects to challenge you, not only 
scratch the surface of your technical 
knowledge. And, we surround you with 
people who love to stretch the limits of
your creativity. We provide a stimulat­
ing experience, colleagueship, and 
liberal tuition assistance too. Come 
contribute to and learn from what 
we do here.
We are interviewing at Carnegie- 
Mellon February 7.
Bolt Beranek and Newman Inc.
10 Moulton Street, Cambridge, MA 02238 
We are an equal opportunity employer m/f/v/h
PARSONSSCHOOL OF DESIGN Special Summer Programs
PARIS WEST AFRICA ITALY LAKE PLACID JAPAN NEW YORK GREECE
International programs offer courses including painting, drawing, 
printmaking, fashion, graphic design, photography, decorative arts, 
architectural history, art history, archaeology, ceramics, fibers, 
metals, surface design and papermaking. Undergraduate and 
graduate credit is available to qualified students. For more 
information, mail the coupon below or call the Office of Special 
Programs: (212) 741-8975
Parsons School of Design, Office of Special Programs,
66 Fifth Avenue, New York, NY 10011
Please send me a brochure on Parsons Special Summer Programs.
Name ______________________________
Address 
City _StateZip70
I am a ? college student ? teacher ? other

---------------------------------------------------

Deadline for next issue is
Tuesday, January 21
Dossier welcomes submissions from any student enrolled at Camegie-Melion University All manuscripts mutt be typed Please include your name, ad­dress, and telephone number on a separate cover sheet only Due to plagiarism laws, anonymous submissions and submissions under pseudonyms cannot be accepted
All submissions are reviewed by at least three staff members, in­cluding the editor, to ensure a balanced review of the work
All unpublished submissions will be returned by the end of the semester Acceptance notices will be sent no later than one week before publication.
RESIDENT ASSISTANT 
SELECTION for 1986-87 
BEGINS NEXT WEEK
literature to Dossierc/o The Tartan Skibo rm. 50
MEET
(he Dossier staff every Monday night 7:00 Skibo rm. 50
CONFUSED?
call Michele Keane at x2 111
THE SELECTION OF THE RESIDENT ASSISTANT 
STAFF FOR THE 1986-87 ACADEMIC YEAR 
WILL BEGIN WITH THE INTEREST SESSIONS ON
Monday, January 20th 
Tuesday, January 2 1st 
Wednesday, January 22nd
AT
9 : OO p . m .
IN
The Wherrett Room
ALL INTERESTED STUDENTS ARE 
ENCOURAGED TO ATTEND 
YOU MUST ATTEND ONE OF THESE 
SESSIONS IN ORDER TO APPLY 
Questions? Please contact the Housing Office at x2139.
THEScot
10 CUT LARGE PIZZA 
& 2 LITER PEPSI
$3.50
plZZAIN
rs.®cn
,i//>
681-2202 or 681-2203

---------------------------------------------------

January 14, 1986—The Tartan—Page 13
Walt Harper: Jazz in Pittsburgh
By LISA McANANY
Tartan Editor-in-Chief
“...But Pittsburgh? Why Pittsburgh??...” 
This is a question that Walt Harper has 
heard perhaps all too often. “My friends in 
New York and L. A. think I deserve a medal 
for staying in Pittsburgh all these years. They 
say ‘Walt, I know you love the city.. .but why 
Pittsburgh?’”
Currently, Walt Harper is the owner of 
Harper’s Restaurant. Located on the lower 
plaza of One Oxford Centre, the restaurant 
offers a subtly chic atmosphere, well- 
prepared, moderately-priced food, a hand- 
picked staff, and above all else...jazz.
As Harper sits in his rather small, but 
well-decorated office at the back of Harper’s 
Restaurant, the Pittsburgh native explains 
his reasons for staying in this city despite 
plenty of other opportunities. “Pittsburgh’s 
a great town and I love the people. It’s not 
a big jazz town, so a jazz musician has to be 
twice as good to get noticed, and that keeps 
me on top of things.”
The benefits of being “on top of things” 
are evidenced on the walls of Harper’s of­
fice by various pictures and plaques. Beside 
the desk hangs an award from the Pittsburgh 
Jazz Festival honoring Harper and his con­
tributions to jazz. On the next wall are pic­
tures of Louis Armstrong and other jazz 
greats. And there’s a photo of Harper with 
his brother during a musical special for CBS 
in Chicago. There are even pictures of Walt 
Harper with members of the Mellon family 
at Rolling Rock Country Club, where 
Harper’s five-member band provided the 
entertainment during the coming-out par­
ty of one of the Mellon daughters. Harper 
points out each of these momentos with a 
smile of genuine pride and pleasure, prov­
ing that he doesn’t take his talent or his ac­
complishments for granted.
Playing the piano, singing recording, 
composing - Walt Harper does it all. He even 
owns his own production company. His top- 
notch quintet performs during the Three 
Rivers Arts Festival, the Pittsburgh Jazz 
Festival, at the Allegheny Club during all the 
Steeler home games, and at various benefit 
dinners and fashion shows throughout the 
year. His sets include pieces from composers 
like Erroll Garner and Count Baisey, as well 
as Harper’s own music.
On top of all that, Harper is a serious ten­
nis player. “From the house I bought not 
long ago, I can drive to five different tennis 
courts in five minutes,” he says, smiling and
counting off the names of the courts on one 
hand. “But it’s a nice house, too,” he’s quick 
to add, just so we can be sure he has his 
priorities straight.
Pittsburgh should not under estimate it’s 
good fortune in still having such a versatile 
and experienced musician within the city 
limits. “When I was eighteen, I went on tour 
with Nat King Cole, which was a great ex­
perience, but I decided then that I didn’t 
want to spend my life as a road musician. 
Even Nat King Cole told me that touring was 
‘no kind of life....’ In 1969, I had another 
oppurtunity to leave. I got an offer, a good 
offer from Quincy Jones to go out to the 
coast and work with him. But I had just 
opened my first restaurant, called Walt 
Harper’s Attic, in Market Square. I decid­
ed to give the Attic six monthes. If it didn’t 
go over - I’d take Quincy’s offer. As it turn­
ed out, the Attic took off and became very 
successful as a jazz night club - so I stayed 
in Pittsburgh. No regrets.”
Since its opening in 1983, Harpers 
Restaurant has become a popular forum for 
jazz, not only Walt Harper’s own jazz, but 
the music of many others as well. Harper’s 
large circle of friends in the music world 
enables him to bring some of the best jazz
musicians around to play in his restaurant, 
including Stanley Turrentine, Dorothy 
MacRae, Ahmad Jamal and many others, 
“Pittsburgh is a rock town; it’s not a big 
jazz town. Now I like any kind of music when 
it’s done well, but jazz is my thing, and that’s 
what we re trying to do down here - let Pitt­
sburgh hear some good jazz.... I think as the 
city becomes more cosmopolitan, jazz will 
become more and more popular. But you 
have to let people know what it’s all about. 
They don’t have to know who Benny Good­
man is; it would be nice, but it’s more im­
portant that they jear what’s happening now, 
hear what jazz is in the 1980’s.” To this end, 
Harper’s Restaurant affords Pittsburgh a 
unique oppurtunity to hear some of the best 
jazz around today. Walt Harper’s un­
mistakable pride in his music and his 
restaurant, and his eagerness to bring jazz 
to Pittsburgh, are enough to make Haper’s 
Restaurant an outstanding addtion to what 
Pittsburgh offers in entertainment, but like 
the owner, the restaurant’s got more than just 
music. As one of Harper’s favorite slogans 
points out, “At Harper’s, the food’s as good 
as the music...and the music’s the best.” 
Walt Harper performs at Harper’s Mon. and 
Wed. 12-2 p.m. and Fri. and Sat. 9 p.m.
laaiUïwa
From TERADYNEa Very large Scale Invitationfrom a Technology Leader
In electronics, tbe era of very large scale integration (VLSI) bas arrii<ed, leaiing many companies 
uitb products suddenly obsolete and engineering staffs struggling to catcb up.
But not Teradyne. Thanks to S119 million spent onR&D in 1981-1984. Teradyne was ready and 
waiting for VLSI
Ready uitb VLSI memory testers, logic testers, analog testers, board testers.
Ready in Boston, Ma., and Woodland Hills, Calif, ubere Teradyne develops ATEfor tbe electronics 
industry.
Ready in Deerfield, Illinois, center for Teradyne's telephone system testing operations.
Ready in Nashua, New Hampshire, where Teradyne produces backplane connection systems and 
state-of-tbe-art circuit board technology designated to meet VSL/ requirements.
This kind of technology leadership spells 
growth. Excitement. Challenge. Career 
opportunities you just can 7 find anyu bere else.
Teradyne. A company ahead of its 
time, looking for some good people 
to keep it ahead.
For more information, 
see your Placement Counselor.
SHARE 
IN OUR 
SUCCESS
-1 ,& ----------‘.Ov ,y.\ />. ’.v

---------------------------------------------------

WRCT 88.3 FM Spring Schedule
Sunday
Mid-3am
6am-9am
9am-Noon
Noon-3pm
3pm-5pm
5pm-7pm
7pm-9pm
9pm-Mid
Monday
Mid-3am
3am-6am
6am-8am
8am-Noon
Noon-3pm
3pm-5pm
5pm-7pm
7pm-9pm
9pm-Mid
Tuesday
Mid-3am
6am-9am
9am-Noon
Noon-3pm
3pm-6pm
6pm-6:30
6:30-9pm
9pm-Mid
Wednesday
Mid-3am
6am-9am
9am-Noon
Noon-3pm
3pm-6pm
6pm-9pm
9pm-Mid
Thursday
Mid-3am 
9am-Noon 
Noon-3pm 
3pm-6pm 
6pm-7pm 
7pm-9pm 
9pm-10pm 
lOpm-Mid 
Friday 
Mid-3am 
9am-Noon 
Noon-3pm 
3pm-5pm 
5pm-7pm 
7pm-9pm 
9pm-Mid 
Saturday 
Mid-3am 
6am-9am 
9am-Noon 
Noon-3pm 
3pm-5pm 
5pm-7pm 
7pm-9pm 
9pmH1ld
Cosmic Flapjacks w/BFP 
Ail Parts of the Spectrum w/Sean 
The Sunday Morning Extras w/Rayro 
Mattress Stains w/Garrett 
Silvia
Electronic, Space, Cosmic
Jazz, Fusion, ArtRock, Pop, Experimental
Jazz, Reggae, Folk, Scud
Gothic, Popular Alternative
Jazz, Fusion, Rock, Ambient
Adventures in Good Music for NonMajors w/Jane & Carol Haas
The Rhythm of the Beat w/Les 
Mutant Music w/Fetko
Das Es w/X. Perry Mental 
Something Completely Different w/Gray 
Anji & Marni
Different-Colored Socks w/Keith 
Joe Bender
New York Talk Show w/Reebs
Fun with the Queen of Radio Pornography
Cool Dry Donuts w/Rob
Phils Washboard w/Phil Phiction
Myth Conceptions w/Stainless Steel Rat 
Counter Intelligence w/Natasha 
Fallout Shelter Snack Bar w/Dan 
Mad Mixin w/lnspector 
Green Eggs and Spam w/Sam I Am 
Sportsline
Modern Angst w/Norbert 
Unsightly and Serene w/Clare
A Tribute to Entropy w/Corwin 
Music to Fend Off Lizards w/Greg & Rob 
Sacco: First Bass, Part 27 
ZJ
Burning Ambitions w/Stormin Norman 
Champagne & Twinkies w/Phaedra & Chloe 
June
Certified Mice Show w/Stuck-Up W.A.S.P. 
The Wrong Station w/Spectre 
Comet Mania! w/Melodius Thunk 
Bbeer in Your Ear w/Bbill 
Feedback
Sad Facts w/Radio Fred 
Phonebooth w/Chuck Farley 
Last Penance w/Redhot Rosa
Late Night w/Sarah and Sam 
The Kiltie Surprise! w/Flash 
Research w/Scott Hawkins 
Wonderbread Culture w/Liwayway 
Jason and Karen 
The Raven's Wig-Out 
Slam Train w/J.P. and Otto
Dereks Club w/Mr. Glich
Hotlicks w/Ax Manic
Lost in Anarchy w/Don
New York Hip Hop Show w/LL Cool J
Jazz: Second City Style w/Lisa Byrd Smith
Neurotica w/Jeff Stafford
The Final Frontier w/Mike Usually
Spermblast w/Wonder Llama & Lenny
R&B. Funk/Rap. Jazz
Various and Uncategorizable Music
Experimental. Bizarre 
NewWave. Hardcore
New Wave. Dance, Classical, Metal. Thrash
Old and New Rock. Experimental. Jazz
Hardcore. Thrash
R&B. Rap. Dance
Pop. Happy, Fun
Reggae. Progressive. Rap
Blues, Etc.
Hardcore, Classical, Comedy, Psych 
Various New. Unusual Music 
New Music. Dance, Psych 
Dance, Funk, Rap 
Obscure
Weekly Sports Call-In Talk Show 
Reggae, Gothic, Modern 
Neuroprogressive
Rock, Experimental, Jazz. Grateful Dead, Blues
Calm and Quiet
Jazz
Gothic, Punk, Rock, Post-Punk, Factory 
French Riviera. Sambas. Bubble Gum 
Reggae and African Music
Odd and Obscure Music
Psych. New Wave. Jazz. Reggae. 60 s Rock
Jazz
Bubbles on the Surface of Silence 
Weekly Public Affairs Call-In Talk Show 
Ock. Unk
Weekly Unusual Call-In Talk Show 
New. Rock
Coherent Bands
Wake Up Music, Comedy
Psych. Garage. Ambient. Dance
Reggae. Funk, Mutant
Rock. Exp. Jazz. Reggae. Funk. C&W
Mid 60's Punk, R&B, Grunge
Hardcore
New Age, Electronic, Experimental, Musak 
Guitar: Metal, Rock, Blues, Fusion, Jazz 
Rock, Fusion. Jazz 
Jazz, Hip Hop. Street. Funk 
Jazz: All Forms
Neurotic Dance Music. High Energy Rock 
Newest Modern Music 
Hardcore. Noise. Industrial
Look for an Updated Guide in 2-4 Weeks. VRCT is funded by the CMU Student Activities Fee.

---------------------------------------------------

Sports.
By JILL DORSON
Tartan Staffwriter
Despite the home court advantage, the 
Lady Tartans fell to the hands of a 
dominating Grove City squad last Saturday. 
At the sound of the final buzzer, the score 
read: Wolverines 54, Tartans, 45.
The first half of the game left the hosts 
' frustrated, but only six points down. “The 
offense just would not execute well,” com­
mented Coach Seidl.
The second half proved to be more of the 
same, though the hoopsters did come alive 
several times. With a steal and a breakaway, 
co-captain Nancy Dilulio dropped in the 
first basket of the stanza. Her tally was 
followed quickly by a perfect outside shot 
from junior guard Valerie Sooky.
The scoring alternated for the next few 
minutes, until 
Camegie-Mellon forc­
ed the Wolverines to 
play out the shot 
clock, therefore gain­
ing possession, and 
ultimately a basket.
Midway through the period, Grove City 
scored 13 unanswered points and only a foul 
returned possession to the home team.
Freshman Lisa Lightner did her team- 
f mates proud as she sunk two from the foul 
line, and then seconds later repeated. 
Lightner then combined with Sooky to add 
four more points to her team’s cause.
The final two minutes proved fatal for the 
Lady Tartans as the frustration and fouling 
mounted, forcing three starters to leave the 
contest.
Overall, Lightner sparked the offense with 
20 points and eight steals, while Dilulio and 
i Rosanna Neupauer sparked the defensive 
drives.
Freshman forward Aimee Reber was busy 
under the boards coming away with nine re­
bounds, followed by freshman Beth Virgin 
and Sooky with seven apiece.
The First Ladies of Washington and Jef­
ferson College proved rude hosts last 
Wednesday, as they handed their guests a 
59-57 loss. The Lady Tartans played a tough 
game, however, as they came out smoking 
in the first two minutes of the contest to sink 
six consecutive baskets, and take a comman­
ding 12-0 lead.
When the smoke cleared, however, 
Washington and Jefferson had regrouped, 
and the game was ultimately decided at the 
foul line. Each tam had 26 field goals, leav­
ing no room for error on the line.
Lightner proved her worth as she led the 
team overall with 22 points, while class­
mate Virgin con­
tributed nine tallies to 
the score sheet.
Dilulio powered the 
defense as Camegie- 
Mellon successfully 
executed its man-to- 
man defense, and full court press. Virgin 
and Lightner chipped in on the defensive 
side, also, with 10 and seven rebounds, 
respectively.
“The outside game worked,” stated coach 
Seidl, “and we played a really tough man- 
to-man defense,” she concluded.
The hoopsters broke into the win column 
as they sent a dejected Mercyhurst College 
home with a 57-45 loss, January 4. Guard 
Valerie Sooky dropped in 15 to ignite the of­
fense, while Lightner garnered 15 caroms, 
defensively.
Reber put in a sterling effort on both sides 
with 11 tallies and 12 rebounds.
The team is led by co-captains Nancy
Dilulio and Dee Nyzio, while the starting 
quintet consists of Dilulio, junior Valerie 
Sooky, and freshmen Lisa Lightner, Aimee 
Reber, and Beth Virgin.
Coach Seidl sees the strength in her 
freshmen, but is quick to praise her captains 
and the remainder of “the supporting cast.”
Looking to add another slash to the win 
column, the Women’s Varsity Basketball 
Team will travel to Cleveland, Ohio tomor­
row, for a 7 p.m. tip-off with the Blue Streak 
of John Carroll University. Saturday, the 
Lady Tartans will play host to the Hiram 
College Terriers. The match is slated to 
begin at 2 p.m.
Head Coach Gerri Seidl is optimistic 
about the upcoming matches, and although 
she characterizes her team as “young,” she 
also calls them “talented, with the ability to 
beat any team in the conference.”
Hockey takes two
by Perry Pierce
Tartan Staffwriter
The Hockey Team moved on to a six and 
two record after two wins this week over 
Alleghany College, and Slippery Rock 
University.
In the win over Alleghany, transfer stu­
dent Greg Timmons led the team to a 4-0 
shutout. New • Tartan goaltender Ron 
Bonasso got his first win and shutout in his 
first game as a Tartan. Bonasso replaces Tar­
tan mainstay Bob Kosakowski, who 
graduated this January. Other stars in the 
win over Alleghany included Don Heyse and 
Meade Rudasill, each scoring goals, as well 
as Mike Halloran, who added an assist.
In the game against Slippery Rock, the 
Tartans won four to two, while experimen­
ting with different line combinations in 
preparation for big games upcoming against 
Pitt and West Virginia. The Tartan domina­
tion in this game was evidenced by the first 
period of play, as Carnegie Mellon outshot 
Slippery Rock 17-2. Carnegie Mellon scored 
only once in the first period, on a power play 
goal by Rob Katz, assisted by Ned Spells at
the thirteen mmute mark. As the game con­
tinued into the second period, Slippery 
Rock’s Dave Ritts scored on a slapshot to tie 
the score at the end of the second period two 
to one. As the second period ended, the Tar­
tans began to sag, as a weak Slippery Rock 
team was able to keep the game close by for­
cing the Tartans to make bad mistakes which 
they are not accustomed to making.
The frustrated Tartans came out of the 
gates for the third period like wildfire, as off 
the opening draw, Greg Timmons scored his 
second goal of the season to put the Tartans 
up by a score of two to one. Just over three 
minutes later, Mike Nihallzo scored for Slip­
pery Rock on a break away to knot the game 
at two apiece. Play continued, and after 
roughing calls were issued to both teams, 
Ned Spells untied the game with a goal 
assisted by Bob Koch eight minutes into the 
period. That goal was the game winner, as 
just over four minutes later, Paul Russo 
scored an insurance goal for Carnegie 
Mellon off a nice pass from defenseroen Sean 
McGinn to give the Tartans a four to two 
lead.
hoeps
Dramatic double overtime victory
Men's basketball tops Grove City 69-67
' Lady Tartans drop two; coach optimistic
photo by Jack Poller
Men’s coach Larry Anderson
By PERRY PIERCE
Tartan Staffwriter
A dramatic 69-67 double overtime win 
over Gove City College on Saturday lifted the 
record of CMU’s male hoopsters over .500 
to 5-4, and helped compensate for a badly- 
played loss to Washington and Jefferson 
earlier this week.
In the game against W&J, Pete Cwalina 
scored twenty points in the Tartan 76-50 
defeat, as consistently strong defense by the 
Presidents kept the Tartans behind. CMU 
shooting was not very impressive, as the W&J 
defense forced many low percentage shots.
W&J also dominated the weak Tartan 
defense and found it easy to pick apart the 
Carnegie Mellon zone .
In Saturday’s win, the Tartans mounted 
a strong defense and were able to control the 
offensive boards. The Tartans were led by 
Pete Cwalina’s 15 rebounds and 19 points, 
as well as Hart Coleman’s 16 points and 10 
rebounds. As the game moved on, the Tar­
tan defense began to sag, allowing Grove Ci­
ty to pull ahead with less than five minutes 
left. Then key baskets by CMU’s Hart Col­
eman and Tom Franklin sent the game into 
overtime.
In the first overtime, the Tartan’s defense 
was very strong, as they forced Grove City 
to take outside shots. But in the battle for 
control, CMU high scorer Pete Cwalina foul­
ed out of the game. As Cwalina watched 
from the sidelines, Tom Franklin took over, 
and proceded to lead the Tartans on the of­
fense and defense. For the game, Tartan 
shooting began to get better, as they sho 
47% from the floor, 69% from the line 
Other Tartan standouts included Davie 
Bart (12 points), and Richard Neff with ten. CMU’s Jay Bender dribbles past a Grove City opponent.

---------------------------------------------------

We wrote the book on free delivery...
...and it’s been a best seller for over 20 years. 
The story? It begins with your phone call and ends at your door with a hot, 
delicious pizza delivered in 30 minutes or less.
Domino s Pizza is critically acclaimed as the #1 source for fast, free delivery. Check us out.
Open for lunch11 am-2am Sun. - Thurs.
11 am -3am Fri.8 Sat
We uae only 100% real dairy cheese.
Fast, Free Delivery
315 N. Craig St. Phone: 681-1700
Our drivers carry less 
than $10.00.Limited delivery area
ei9Sl Dommoi Pun. Inc
$1.00 off any 12" one item or more pizza 
One coupon per pizza 
Expires: 1/27/86
Fast, Free Delivery
315 N. Craig St. 
Phone: 681-1700
$2.00 Off any 16” one 
item or more pizza 
One coupon per pizza 
Expires: 1/27/86
Fast, Free DeliWry "
315 N. Craig St. 
Phone: 681-1700
•MULTI-USER RELATIONAL DATABASE
QNX
•MULTI—USER/MULTITASKING/NETWORKING 
OPERATING SYSTEM FOR YOUR IBM PC/XT/AT 
•HIGH DEGREE OF UNIX SYSTEM V COMPATIBILITY 
•K & R ‘C’ STANDARD COMPILER 
•BASIC COMPILER
ZIM
•ENTITY—RELATIONSHIP MULTI-USER DATABASE 
•MS—DOS/QNX/UNIX VERSIONS 
• MAINFRAME—STYLE LANGUAGE
OR CALL MUSE INTERNATIONAL 
AT 521-3600 FOR FURTHER INFOMATION
- * ** z -v-”^ - **. ir * •
_______________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________
NOW AVAILABLE THROUGH THE
CMU COMPUTER STORE:
Hwmid O'O'O

---------------------------------------------------

January 14, 1986—The Tartan—Page 17
Roberto Romano: Penguin surprise player
By JOHN FRIEDMANN
Tartan Business Manager
When Roberto Romano went AWOL 
from the Pittsburgh Penguins last March, 
few expected him to return, much less be 
ranked among the NHLs goaltending 
leaders. Yet, he is back in net for the 
Penguins, and his 3.18 goals-against average 
and .897 save percentage put him among the 
this year’s top goalies.
His performance has allowed Pittsburgh 
to all but retire goaltending fixture Dennis 
Herron (3 games, 14 goals) and has lessen­
ed the reliance on 35-year-old verteran Gilles 
Meloche, aquired in the off-season from Ed­
monton to shore up the Pens’ goaltending.
But last year, Roberto Romano had had 
enough. Despite being named the Penguins’ 
1983-4 Rookie of the Year, Romano started 
the season in net for the Baltimore Skipjacks, 
the Pens’ minor league team. After his recall 
to Pittsburgh, he compiled a miserable 9-17 
record and an equally unspectacular 4.42 
goals-against average.
So faced with all of this, Roberto Romano 
did the the logical thing: he quit the team 
in mid-season and started a wine distributor­
ship in his Montreal hometown.
He laughs about it now. “The wine 
distributorship lasted all of three weeks 
before I got the itch to play hockey again.” 
After quitting, Romano found the urge to
play again compelling. “You do something 
for so many years of your life and its hard 
to get away from. I had worked hard to get 
to the NHL, and I wanted to play there.” 
The Penguins were suprisingly understan­
ding. GM Eddie Johnson invited Romano to 
training camp this season with the 
understanding that Roberto would have to 
prove himself again, and head coach Bob 
Berry agreed to give him every opportunity. 
Romano also credits the other Pfenguins for 
aiding his return. “A lot of the guys were 
angry when I walked out on everyone last 
season, but they didn’t take it out on me in 
the preseason.”
The young goaltender earned a spot on 
Pittsburgh’s opening day squad for the first 
time, and began alternating games with 
veteran Giles Meloche, who was expected to 
share the net with fellow veteran Dennis 
Herron. Romano even put together a four 
game win streak at the end of November, a 
month in which he performed the bulk of 
the Pittsburgh goaltending duties.
Intramural
Report
Basketball
The FINAL intramural basketball entry 
date is now THURSDAY, JANUARY 16 
Get your team in NOW!
IMPORTANT rules clinic at 4:30 pm 
Wednesday, January 15. Each team MUST 
have a represenative there.
Each player can play for only ONE team. 
Varsity players are ineligble. Games start 
January 20. Check IM Bulletin Board for 
schedules
Commissioners:
Majors: Russ Long x4639 
Intermediate: Dom Colangelo 687-6369 
Minors: Pat Carey x4770 
Women: Dee Nyzio x4608
Entry Due Dates 
January 16
Backgammon (Comissioner: Open) 
Pinochle (Comissioner: Vince Carozza 
687-3739)
January 23
Floor Hockey (Comissioner: Open) 
Handball (Comissioner: E.T. Birdy 
x2214)
Water Basketball 
Wrestling
Champions
Soccer
Majors: REAL MELLON 
Minors: DU-B 
Three Person Volleyball 
Majors: ECE 
Minors: AEPI
The next IM board meeting is on Thursday, 
January 23, at 12:30 pm, in the IM Office 
(GYM 101)..................................................... .........*----------------------WRCT Sports
Home Games
Tonight: Sportslme, 6-6:30 pm. j
Wednesday: Men’s Basketball verms
John Carroll, 8 pm. (Airtime 
7:50 pm.)
Saturday: Women’s Basketball versus
Hiram, 2 pm .(Airtime 150 pm.)
_________________________________________
SIGN UP FOR CAMPUS INTER'VIEWS NOW
—gtli ugi C6muvtci 
,A$, 1B0T— ,AT 
59H:—,P8 $AT$H
As Bill Gates (creator of BASIC 
at age 19), now the Chariman of 
Microsoft puts it, "There is no 
other industry where you can come 
up with an idea and a year later you 
have 100,000 people sitting happily 
using it to get their work done. I’m 
having a very good time.”
We’re looking for Software 
Design Engineers who share this 
perspective — who have the drive, 
the insight, the creativity to shape 
the software that will move the 
microcomputer industry ahead. And 
who enjoy doing it, like Bill does.
You’ll work with hardware so 
new it hasn't been publicly intro­
duced. Work closely with the most 
outstanding minds in the business. 
Enjoy the freedom of your own 
office in our flexible environment. 
And relish the challenge of building 
your perspective into the most 
exciting projects around.
ON-CAMPUS 
INTERVIEWS ON 
JANUARY 20th 
SIGN UP NOW!
Explore your future with 
Microsoft. Check with your 
career office for position and 
scheduling details. Our repre­
sentatives will be on campus at 
Carnegie Mellon, Monday, 
January 20th.
MICROSOFT
The High Performance Software
MICROSOFT CORPORATION 
Human Resources 
3055 112th NE, Box 97200 
Bellevue, WA 98009
An equal opportunity employer, m/f.
The challenge at the heart of great 
computer programming is this: to 
make the machine do something it 
has never done before. The influ­
ence of that effort on the way peo­
ple use computers extends deep into 
the daily workings of business, 
communication, and, increasingly, 
everyday life worldwide.
The perspective you take today, 
the creativity you apply to pro­
gramming now, may very well be 
the catalysts for a brand new way of 
accomplishing the most routine 
tasks. For changing the way people 
interact with machines. Or for put­
ting a computer on every desktop in 
the country.

---------------------------------------------------

Europe in Film
A Series Sponsored by the Program 
in European Studies, 
Department of History
All films will be shown on Sunday afternoons 
at 3 p.m., Adamson Wing, Baker Hall 134. They 
are shown in their original versions, with English 
subtitles. Admission is free.
I. CHILDHOOD
• January 19: Froncois Trufaut, The Four Hundred 
Blows (France, 1959), 98 minutes. Truffaut's first feature 
film portrays a young boy's struggles with family, 
school and society in the process of growing up.
• January 26: Vittorio De Sica, The Bicycle Thief (Italy, 
1949), 87 minutes. One of the classics of the postwar 
neo-realist Italian cinema. The story of a boy and his 
fater in post-World War II Rome.
• February 2: Mark Donskoi, The Childhood of Maxim 
Gorky (USSR, 1938), 100 minutes. Part I of a trilogy 
based on the Russian writer's autobiography.
II. ADOLESCENCE
© February 9: Diane Kurys, Peppermint Soda (France, 
1978), 97 minutes. Delightful portrait of two French 
teenage girls growing up in France of the early 1960s.
• February 16: Volker Schlondorff, Young Tor/ess (Ger­
many, 1966), 87 minutes. An adaptation of Robert 
Musil's 1906 novel about life in a boys' school in the 
eastern reaches of the Austro-Hungarian empire.
III. MEN AND WOMEN
© March 2: Josef von Sternberg, The Blue Angel 
(Germany, 1930), 107 minutes. From the novel by 
Heinrich Mann, a story of obsession, vulnera­
bility and self-destruction. Stars Marlene Dietrich and 
Emil Jannings.
• March 9: Jean-Luc Godard, Breathless (France, 1959), 
89 minutes. A French gangster falls for a nice 
American girl in Paris—with surprising results. Stars 
Jean-Paul Belmondo, Jean Seberg.
• March 16: Margarethe von Trotta, Sisters (Germany, 
1981), 95 minutes. The very different life choices made 
by two sisters and the consequences of those choices 
for their relationship.
• April 6: Lina Wertmuller, Swept Away” (Italy, 1975), 
116 minutes. One of Wertmuller's most outrageous 
films—in which the class struggle meets the battle 
of the sexes. Erotic and visually stunning.
• April 13: Ingmar Bergman, Scenes from a Marriage 
(Sweden, 1974), 163 minutes The film, originally made 
for Swedish television, explores the substance of one 
marriage with extraordianry detail and depth.
CMUComputer Store
CMU Computer Store: UCC - A level
Phone: x2636 MM: PS00@TE 
For a current price list: Type HELP COMPUTER-STORE-PRICES on any
TOPS System.
! ! Mac Charlie ! !
For a limited time only, The CMU Computer Store is 
able to make the Mac Charlie Computer System 
available for only $1199.00. This is the same unit that 
is used in the Hunt Library Computer Classroom. It 
comes complete with two double-sided 
double-density floppy disk drives and 640k of RAM 
memory. Have the power of a PC and a Macintosh on
the same desktop.
While Supplies Last!
*The Mac Charlie is a MS-DOS machine that works along side of the 512k Macintosh. It is necessary to have a Macintosh in 
order to use a Mac Charlie
PIZZA • PIZZA «PIZZA «PIZZA «PIZZA 
<
<
N
N
810 IVY STREET
682-3333CDCp n, .. Mon.-Sat. 5 PM-1 AMFREE Delivery Sun(jay 12 pm-12 am 
We sell pizza by the slice
SPECIAL: Order $10.00 
more and get a coupon for 
FREE $3 Cheese Pizza.
<
N
N
<
N
N
LARGE$
PIZZA
<
N
N
Offer
Valid
With
Mention
Of
Ad
FREE
K
>
N
>
iter of Coke 2
With Purchase 
£ Of Large Pizza >
PIZZA « PIZZA • PIZZA • PIZZA • PIZZA

---------------------------------------------------

WANTED
St.. NW S *QSbQ. Pk.
FITIVUIO« 1003
cLean, VA
no our WP de- 
Ind looking for an I ho anwuncflon as our 
rator%nd handle a* of aMonments on In fastmced anvl- 1 
Henceofllwox 840 \ pass typln^ut at
»LY: Call Phv,. [appt bet wean
INC.
M/F
r gorflerit pogresslve -jfnv. We of- Pnd benefits. J.ed work and Hash Post Box
V control, must ii of pra-prass 4 /off-press revise. S 1-1700 for Interview. 
#n. S vrs. exper, 18S0T .r& Hamada 400. Hat fsarlous printers contact f 4 Sil Spg__________
PRINTING 
PRESSMAN
fid, opptv. exists for qu^llIdous offset press operataHMmmandino J^oup orlenla^Wnf and reproduction slices op-atlon of We state^arvlces or-. anlxatlon. SSO Is vlolnt venturereparation provldln# central sup-'porl services to 69enants located In the
indlv. MPwv«*mTo*aiCopv^rtumvPJ—
¦r’S' *Mary ,.
rete
*w2*î^ Versar Inc
PO. Box 1549 Springfield, VA. 22151
(703)750-3000,
C„i '»• '
. Je have openings for talented 
production people to help with 
layout and paste • up. We will 
train. Must know which end of 
an x-acto knife to cut with. 
r*
• wr,oiease
S»
jrrrommI i/ui ^Hfeet NV. 
Washlngloff^^. 20004 An Enual Opporlunnt^mplover 
WRITERAttention
News, features, enter- 
tainment, sports, 
science, and political 
writers. We have imme­
diate openings for tal­
ented writers who are 
looking for a fast - mov­
ing, exciting job. Many 
fringe benefits.
X-JtAY
ULTRANSONOGRAPMER
Immediate vacancy within the Ra­diology Dept, for qualified candi­
date with 1 vear experience in Ul- ^Muound technology. 2 years ex- pe^B^a radiology technologist preferflVIK^PMS registry desir­
able. ExcenPRtaegjiipackage In­cluding free tultlorNMBtt|gtftttf| 
es,excellent opportunlf^^^Hr 
BS degree In Radioiogy Science & Administration. To apply send re­
sume or come into the Personnel 
iKfica. Mon.-Wed.. 9 em-4 pm.
^•^ikJj^HINGTON
CfNT"'*
Turn extra time Into extra dollars bv becoming an Important part of our successful Rockville market­ing branch. Diversified & reward­ing programs for malor compa-mo orancn. viversiii'Jng programs for rr fe^Saiarv + bonus.
£8 PER HOUR
IS AVAILABLE
1 pm.
POSI9 v
Friendly, ki lots o( fun & Walker:881
rabie staff & isas. Call Mr.
PART TIME
SUPPLE/ 
YOUR I
Is inflation income? Pi 
for the natlc tetemarketjp 
are open M Saturé 
Rc
«vtonagerGRAPHICS & EXHIBITS Combine creetlve skills with finan­cial rawer d of management, ¦tooo administrative, graphies,
photographic ex- per^r^^Mattitlon with top D.C. compenvU^B^ea. EPP open for riqhfi Brown, 773-8S00 
PLANNING
—n»«. vjppdrtun# Employer, cut with. PBOOR AMMB^pAMALV^T "
1 • Progremmer/Melvst for gr <17 Production Manager Z5TVTjESS^l
I10 GRAPHICS & EXHIBITS able to ess#e resoonslWIH 1.. ,/< mhlTA'«'' Combine creatlva skWs wllh eN data oMessfng function f
IU^ ^ ^clal raw»*-/« eluding Jk system develop
&vira dollars 8. usMflnecface. Min. of 4 vi ira Hma into e*u JFworklng knowledge o|
34. Send resume to: P% .-«I, Automata, Inc. 1821 A Faradav Or.. Reston, Ve. EOE/M/F.
»•eion
Vr.
haw ***J*** 0,¿•¿.««fee iS*'9 hr,
-
r?1 _
witn experl^S^Pfcp, OA can 549-3504 Mon-FrT^-^4-3079 or self^ir 6. Ask for Jeff. EOE iinto to Fisher Electronics, HNVOL A LJ **#|i
is'i.i?" "• ™5t m,u th r
ESa 4ao/j^ .............work hard, start at the*PHOTO FINISHING HELP— end learn a trade? If so.Wanted night shift. CaW betw. 4-10 to talk to you. We are *pm., ask for Mr. Oavls. $48-7312. Alexandria and do cusltfttftdtefeflfeflfcgtlc Photo Serv- work. The position Is a
nu»«— Be^ljgj^nlhe slide i 
areaT^VMM learn aH. slide prdK%a, E-4 
chemistry dNSpl and any) duties assigndB Salary would bo aroiV Call - *
— »mr Photo Serv- icf. ^
PHOTO TECHNICIAN^Td operate
PAKO color print processor. Call 894-3949._____________________
PHOTOGRAPHBRS WANTED—News, sports, features,candids. Own equipment prefered, but not a must. We supply all film and darkroom supplies.______
»MOTOa^APHIC ASST. MOM.^(iu. •- *** «K-
ARTISTS/CARTOONISTS 
WANTED
Funny? Creative? Artistic? Put your 
talents into print. We need car­
toonists, political satirists, and il­
lustrators. You don’t need to be an 
art major, and we supply materials.
"ffRVTHNFI
SECRETARYt Private psychiatric hospMal/nurs- V ^ home, located in 1 Corners Is Hjo* Secretary lor the Per- ^¦M^TMs Is a challenging 
res strong or- v & typing skies. ¿ferial exper ,^.offer co 
packi
^Par menant re^40*' *••***
¦hTa . - _)T0LA8 
AINEES
No V*.
H positions available for wllh a basic knowledoe W graphic process. For KBhslderellon, caM Larry Welnfeld: 849-0233.
Dewberry & Davis
______
KLNLDDD
•fits 4Seier/y!!? <Mark
comiw°®*nfne
íssír2 j
77?e Tartan needs writers, photographers, artists, typesetters & production people. We offer some 
paid positions and many fringe benefits, including travel, special events, career experience with 
one of Pennsylvania’s top college newspapers, and the opportunity to meet important & interesting 
people. For more information come to our organizational meeting on Wednesday, January 15 at 
7:30 in Skibo room 12.

---------------------------------------------------

Editorial.
Terrorism Coverage: 
History or Hype?
The three-week break between semesters is a great op­
portunity to catch-up on sleep, time with family and 
friends, and just generally relax. It is also a chance to 
remember that a whole world exists out there beyond the 
confines of Forbes Avenue and Schenley Park.
While we quietly pour over our books, the daily events 
of the world carry on despite our oblivion to them. One 
event which seems to be repeating itself with alarming fre­
quency is that unsuspecting international travellers are 
becoming the victims of terrorism: hijackings, machine- 
gun assaults and bombings. Actually, the news of these 
unsettling occurences often makes its impact felt even 
among the most studious of college students. How couldn’t 
it? The enormous influx of media coverage is generally large 
enough to reach even the most remote of ivory towers.
But this barrage of media coverage is in itself discom­
forting. Of course there are times when the media must 
become directly involved in spite of themselves. In hostage 
situations, for instance, the demands of the attackers often 
include some amount of media attention. In such cases, 
a resolve on the part of the media to remain detached would 
seem hard-hearted, if not down-right immoral. Given, 
then, that the media has a responsibility to inform the 
public and must sometimes play a very active role, are the 
media currently responding to instances of terrorism in the 
most responsible or useful manner? Speaking as “journalists” 
the answer seems to be no.
Most of us would agree that artificially generated 
melodrama may be excusable on the screen, but has no 
place in the news media. Yet melodrama is exactly what 
many sources of news offer with respect to terrorism. Televi­
sion media seems particularly guilty of this offensive 
coverage. Tuning into one of the major networks during 
the news hour gives us press conferences which turn into 
fiascoes, or airport reunions filled with relief and happiness 
and camera crews, or even offers us the private pain of 
families who were not lucky enough to be at one of those 
airport reunions, but were not denied their fair share of 
air time because of this.
This is not the type of media coverage which promotes 
an understanding of the situation in all its complexity. 
Understanding terrorism today requires an understanding 
of the Irish Nationalist cause or the problems which have 
plagued the Mideast for 2000 years. Watching crying 
mothers talk about their sons does not facilitate such an 
understanding. While few people would condone terroriz­
ing innocent people, the public needs more information 
to be able to make a sound judgment about the issues which 
lead to instances of terrorism.
Probably none of us agree with terrorism as a tactic for 
pursuing personal or political interests, so perhaps the 
gravest consequence of all the publicity which terrorism 
receives is that it benefits, in fact, encourages terrorism as 
a means to promote a cause. If acts of terrorism were not 
greatly publicized, all that the terrorists would stand to gain 
for their efforts is a sense of retribution. While retribution 
is often the alleged motive behind terrorist attacks, the pro­
blems actually stem from deeply-rooted religious dif­
ferences, as in Sri Lanka, or political ones as in Central 
America. The media hype surrounding terrorism provides 
a medium for the propaganda so important to any cause, 
particularly an unpopular one.
If current methods of dealing with terrorism in the media 
are unacceptable, how then should these situations be 
handled? The media do seem to have a responsibility to 
inform the public of events taking place in the world, and 
certainly ever-spreading terrorism is a grim aspect of to­
day’s reality. But over working the facts does not change 
them. Giving basic facts about where and when an attack 
took place, how severe it was and what the immediate 
ramifications are would be sufficient to fill a sixty-second 
spot on the evening news, and if the staff is really hurting 
for material, perhaps a look at the history of the issues 
which lead to terrorism would be acceptable. At least the 
public would be more informed about the reasons for us­
ing terrorism and could reject or accept such actions on 
the basis of this information.
AFL attacks Unfounded
Editor:
I am writing in response to the 
personal attack made on me in 
the November 26 issue of the Tar­
tan by Uriel Wittenburg. His pur­
poseful misrepresentation of 
Students for Choice’s showing of 
the “Silent Scream” have lost me 
several friends and have hurt me 
deeply.
Although in his letter to the 
Editor, Wittenburg claims he is 
pro-choice or at least neutral on 
abortion, he has never to my 
knowledge attended a Students 
for Choice meeting and has at­
tended several anti-choice 
meetings here on campus. Given 
his orientation, his accusations 
that Students for Choice’s 
November 18th representation 
was “biased” should be taken with 
a grain of salt, especially as the 
Students for Choice showed both 
sides of the issue, while Associa­
tion for Life did not.
Indeed, the last time I saw 
Uriel Wittenburg was the first 
time the Association for Life in­
vaded a Students for Choice 
meeting. Last spring A. EL. 
members showed up to harass 
Jeanne Clark, a former women’s 
clinic operator. I again met Uriel 
Wittenburg on November 18th 
along with the rest of the Associa­
tion for Life who disrupted our 
meeting. As program director, I 
was shocked that I was unable to 
discuss the inaccuracies of the 
“Silent Scream” in my own 
meeting.
A.F.L. disrupted our meeting 
on the pretext that it was incor­
rect to say that Bernard Nathan- 
son, the film’s narrator, became 
anti-choice after a power struggle 
with the pro-choice group he once 
worked for. Instead of letting 
students make up their own mind 
whether or not to support volun­
tary pregnancy, A.F.L. opposes 
free speech and free thought.
Undoubtedly, anti-choice 
members were afraid that 
students might see through Ber­
nard Nathanson’s fibs that 
pregnancy terminations are
dangerous if students had been 
able to hear the truth, that abor­
tions are thirteen times safer than 
childbirth (Center Fox Disease 
Control 1977). I suppose I 
shouldn’t be surprised at the 
Association for Life’s actions, con­
sidering only last spring they 
claimed women couldn’t get preg­
nant if they were raped. Perhaps, 
their ignorance on rape is ex­
cusable; their opposition to free 
speech and their misrepresenta­
tion of the safety of abortion is 
not. I find Mr. Wittenburg’s 
belief that it is “inappropriate” for 
the program director of an 
organization to respond to the 
biased and misleading film 
nauseating. Indeed, I find both 
his opposition to free speech and 
the Association for Life’s conduct 
“inapropriate in a university set­
ting”, not Students for Choice’s 
conduct as Mr. Wittenburg would 
have us believe.
Katherine Robinson 
Program /Political Action Director
Students For Choice
Toleration's the name of the game
by Eric Rocher 
Ever wonder how you could live 
/vith your roommate or get along 
<vith people at work? When we 
nave to be with someone who is 
not like us for a weekend or for a 
HB.hole year we usually 
learn to tolerate the 
person.
\ At CMU, more
than at most other universities, 
there is a very diverse student 
body. Whether you are a prover­
bial fruit or veggie or anything in 
between, you realize the impor­
tance of being able to tolerate a 
diversity of people.
I see three steps to becoming 
tolerant of another person. The 
first step is identifying the dif­
ferences you have with another 
person. There may be many dif-
ferences, such as how attractive or 
popular the person is, or there 
may only be few differences. The 
differences can be very wide or 
deeply rooted. Once you identify 
the differences, you have an op­
portunity to get to know that 
person.
The second step I see to becom­
ing tolerant of another person is 
to briefly put aside your dif­
ferences. This may last 2 seconds 
while you say “hello” or it may last 
a weekend. Briefly putting aside 
your differences gives you an op­
portunity to see what similarities 
you have with the other person 
and on what you agree. 
Sometimes you discover you have 
much in common with the other 
person. Every time you meet that 
person the brief period of putting
aside your differences can become 
longer and longer.
The last step I see in becoming 
tolerant of another person is to 
put aside your differences for a 
long time; to bury the hatchet. 
Tolerating others has many 
benefits; you can live in harmony 
rather than discord, you can be 
more productive, and you can 
create a friendly, trusting relation­
ship. Tolerating others is not too 
difficult. Chances are if you can 
tolerate this essay, you can probaly 
tolerate anyone.
Eric Rocher is a Junior in Biology 
and is in the Health Professions 
Program. He is chairman of the 
Student Senate. The Student 
Senate meets every Tuesday at 7 
p.m. in the Wherret room. All 
students are invited to attend the 
meetings._____________________

---------------------------------------------------

January 14, 1986—The Tartan—Page 21
View from a height
Students: "Gather ye memories while ye may..
By TallSteve
To be ignorant of what happened before 
you were bom is to be ever a child. For what 
is man’s lifetime unless the memory of past 
events *s woven with those of earlier times?
— Cicero (106-43 BC) 
The other day I saw this quote 
P Jjjgf* on the door of a guy I used to
** know (thanks, Rich). It says ex-
•l:E. iLLi : actly what I’ve been trying to put 
into words for some time. . . almost.
Here’s another quote, which in a way is 
similar: Student memory is very short.
I heard a professor say this to the 1986-7 
Tuition Committee, on which I sat last year.
I can’t remember the professor’s name, but 
he was trying to point out that students in 
general would forget what tuition used to 
be in years past, and that they don’t par­
ticularly care because they’re going to bear 
the freight anyway. The quote stuck with me 
for a long time. In one sentence, that pro­
fessor spoke reams about student dynamics.
Let’s detach ourselves from our student 
lives for a moment, and think about what 
it means to be a student. A student is highly 
analogous to a human being, only in 
microcosm. A student can be considered 
“born” when he enters college, and “dead” 
when he graduates. Thus, the “lifetime” of 
a student is usually about four years.
The lifetime of a student is, obviously, 
much shorter than the lifetime of a human 
being. If we continue drawing analogies to 
humans by equating the knowledge of every­
thing collegiate which older students teach 
to younger students to the “parent” func­
tion, we can define a “generation” of 
students as lasting about two to four years, 
in comparison to generations of humans 
which last anywhere from 15 to 30 years.
Now, think how much you know about 
your grandparents. Did they tell you about 
their childhoods and their lives and times? 
Okay, then, try and guess the number of 
people who know a lot about their grand­
parents, and compare to the number of peo­
ple who you guess know very little or ab­
solutely nothing about their grand­
parents. . .let alone greatgrandparents.
Our grandparents are only TWO genera­
tions behind us. Consequently, students 
know about as much about their predeces­
sors who came only about six years ago as 
most of us know about our grandparents!
The only flaw in the analogy is that 
students in fact live in the world of human 
beings, and thus are subject to time elaps­
ing at the same rate. Students “live” fast and 
“die” fast, and don’t have much time to do 
things in comparison to humans.
Going back to the second quote, we can 
rephrase it to read: ‘The memory of the stu­
dent race is short-term because individual 
student lives are short.” And the problem 
with all this, you ask? Well, we all know that 
we learn from history, that it is important 
not to repeat past mistakes. If students to­
day don’t know where their ‘forefathers” 
have been, then shouldn’t we expect student 
history to repeat itself endlessly?
Let’s go to some real-world illustrations. 
Think of the College of Fine Arts. For how 
long has CFA suffered with poor facilities? 
It hasn’t been just since you got here. How 
many Art majors are forced to work in 
workshops in the basement of Doherty Hall 
that are both poorly ventilated and an 
asbestos hazard? How many students know 
that a huge CFA complex was proposed in 
the late sixties, to be built where the hotel 
will be built now? How many fewer students 
know why it was never built? Most impor­
tantly, how many students would be angry 
enough to act if they knew that conditions 
aren’t just bad, they’ve been bad for years?
How about all the traditions that have 
disappeared from CMU? Whatever happen­
ed to the Class Chain? Why did they stop 
putting brass tiles for each graduating class 
in the floor of Baker Hall? Why couldn’t 
they fix the steam tunnels, like other schools 
have, so that students could enjoy them?
Finally, take student organizations. What 
did they used to do to attract so many 
members? What mistakes have the leaders 
of the past made, what scandals have occur­
red, what brilliant ideas for more efficient 
running of the group have surfaced. . . only 
to be buried in the unknown past?
If past history was known, at the very least 
students would have some explanations. 
Right now, students naturally assume that 
the world is conspiring against them because 
they don’t know any better. For those enter-. 
prising few who are not complacent, who 
are not just in school to get a degree and 
a job, information of “how things used to 
be” could provide invaluable comparison for 
today’s work.
So how do we compile this history we are 
creating as we speak? I have several 
recommendations:
Take advantage of the campus’ built-in 
Historian and Time Capsule. We may not 
have the time to be historians or to create 
and bury time capsules alone, but two or­
ganizations already provide those functions.
You’re reading the latest issue of the cam­
pus historian. Once this issue of The Tar­
tan has supplied the news of the present, it 
will become part of the historical record of 
the major internal events which have occur­
red at CMU. And what a record! Whatever 
your opinion of The Tartan , good or bad, 
go sometime to the third floor of Hunt 
Library and read some of the back issues on 
microfilm. You’ll find some of the most in­
teresting and intriguing information about 
what life used to be like for Tech students. 
(Suggested: issues from 1945 and 1969. . .)
There’s a Time Capsule on campus, too, 
and it’s called the Tech Room. Also main­
tained by Hunt, it’s on the second floor, and 
a staffer can let you in. The entire reason 
for its existence is to collect CMU 
memorabilia. You can find old course 
catalogs, posters that circulated on campus 
just last year, a geographical survey of Pitt­
sburgh from 1889, photographs of Carnegie 
Tech from all eras of its existence, and 
much, much more. (NOW how much would 
you pay?) But the reason I mention it here 
is that Hunt Library tries to collect even the 
most insignificant short-lived collectibles — 
posters and handbills, souvenirs, 
photographs, programs, records of students 
past and present, old departmental forms, 
letterheads, correspondence: anything that 
can shed even a little more light on what it’s 
like here and now.
But don’t just go and browse through 
these things; donate to them! If you find 
something which might be of general in­
terest, let the staffers in Hunt know about 
it. If you feel that there’s some aspect of life 
that really should be captured in print for 
future ‘generations” of students to 
remember, let our Features Editor know. 
Help save our heritage before it slips away 
from us. (Now I sound like a ‘Buy U.S.Sav­
ings Bonds” commercial. But the sentiment 
is almost the same.)
Also, if you make a poster, no matter how 
short-lived it will be, make sure you label 
it somehow. Put the name of the university 
on it somewhere; give the complete date and 
include the year, say who’s sponsoring the 
event; if it’s a really clever poster design, sign 
it. Make it worth collecting, and you might 
find it on display some Homecoming.
If you’re in a student organization, keep 
track of its doings, and the comings and 
goings of the people in it. Organizations 
can be those recognized by Student Senate, 
a dorm floor, even an informal group of
people. The yearbook can only fit so much 
about any one organization in its pages. For 
the sake of people who will join your 
organization in the future, take pictures of 
the people in it now -- not just posed, but 
of them doing the sort of things your 
organization usually does. Snap the environ­
ment you work in now, no matter how mun­
dane it seems. Record changes in your en­
vironment. Keep a scrapbook of articles, 
notes, letters, achievements, pictures you 
take, explanations of everything; comment 
on your student life and the great student 
times you had in that organization. Make 
a new one every year, and store the old one 
somewhere safe, like the Tech Room.
These efforts will provide the “raw data” 
to which the professors in Devo so often lead 
us in our quest for a better understanding 
of the cultures we study in class. But most 
importantly, sift through the raw data that 
others before you have taken time to save.
If you’re in some organization, find out 
how they used to do things; maybe you’ll
Clearing the
by Lisa McAnany
Tartan Editor-in-Chief
I’m the new Editor-in-Chief of The Tar­
tan. Doesn’t that sound familiar, as if you’ve 
heard it before, perhaps many times before? 
Well it has happened again. The Tartan has 
gone through another changing of the guard 
and the new editorial board again brings 
with it a different set of ideas and goals, 
motivations and philosophies.
But the newspaper does not at first glance 
look radically different. It looks, in fact, 
remarkably the same. And it is. As the 
semester wears on, however, the change will 
become more and more apparent as this 
staff begins to realize some of its own par­
ticular goals.
One change you might notice, for in­
stance, is that in coming weeks The Tartan 
will begin to include news of local, national 
and international events. In the past the 
philosophy of this newspaper has been that 
as a student-run, campus newspaper, our 
responsibility was to cover exclusively cam­
pus news and issues, mainly because there 
are plenty of other sources of outside news. 
The problem with that line of thought is 
that most students do not have enough time 
to seek out many different sources of news. 
For that reason, and because the Tartan is 
free and available to all students, I believe 
that the Tartan should provide students with 
a source of news with varying scopes.
And if the Tartan looks the same now as 
it has for a long time past, that too may be 
changing. Questions of lay-out and design 
are challenging and interesting ones for any 
editorial and production staff. With new 
members and fresh ideas, the overall look 
of the paper has been receiving considerable 
attention and will undoubtedly change as
Opinion Policy
The Editorial appearing at the beginning
of the opinion section is the official opinion 
of The Tartan Editorial Board.
Columns are the opinions of individual 
authors who are not necessarily on The Tar­
tan Editorial Board or Staff.
Letters to the Editor are opinions of in­
dividual authors who are usually members 
of the University community. A letter in­
tended for publication must be signed and 
include the writer's address and phone 
number for verification Names will be 
withheld upon request. The Tartan reserves 
the right to condense or reject any letter.
find that someone a few years ago used to 
do something a better way, or someone way 
back when avoided a nasty problem that you 
still face today. Find out the history of your 
dorm — who is it named after, and why? 
When was it built? (When you find out, use 
it as an excuse to have a party there.) Use 
some demographic data about CMU 
students from the past few graduating 
classes in a report. Point out something of 
interest — or of outrage — to The Tartan.
If there’s one thing that we as students 
have to remember, it’s that unaided student 
memory is short, and that unattended stu­
dent memories disappear forever. If you 
make an effort to preserve something special 
that you have or someone else has done, you 
will be benefiting ‘generations” of students 
to come. Who knows? Something you save 
in your freshman year might wind up being 
useful to you before you even graduate.
“TallSteve” is really Stephen Volan, a 
Social Science junior on academic leave in 
Pittsburgh.
Editor's Desk
this boards term of office progresses.
This is by no means, however, the first 
Tartan staff with high hopes of improving 
the campus newspaper. Certainly each suc­
cessive editorial board begins the semester 
with new ideas and ambitions. The problem 
becomes carrying out those ideas and still 
managing to produce a newspaper on time 
each week. I see one of the key problems in 
facilitating change to be the brevity of 
students’ stints as Tartan Editors. In recent 
years, most Editors have not spent more than 
one semester in that office. This means that 
a large amount of time each4* semester is 
spent in adjusting to new people and learn­
ing how to perform in a new position. This 
takes away from time which could be spent 
in making stedy, if slow, improvements in the 
newspaper. I hope to see my term as editor 
through until next December, when we will 
again have elections, and see perhaps a new 
board. But I hope that in editing the paper 
for at least the one-year term for which I was 
elected will give the other members of the 
staff a sense of continuity, under which pro­
gress can be made toward producing a stu­
dent newspaper of excellent quality.
Ihehten.
Editor-in-Chief.............Lisa D. McAnany
Managing Editor ...............Olve Peersen
Business Manager ... John Friedmann
News Editor ..............................Vijay Reddy
Entertainment Editor____Bruce Kasrel
Features Editor... Christy Casamassima
Sports Editor..................John Friedmann
Photography Editor..................Jack Poller
Dossier Editor ..................Michele Keane
Art Manager......................Mike McHugh
Ad Manager............................Celeste Clark
Production Manager ..Albrecht Powell 
Typesetting Manager ..Kathryn Sitter 
Editorial Asst........................Albrecht Powell
Contributing Editors: Neal Johnston, Ric 
Medrow,
Copyright © 1985 by The Tartan. The 
Editorial Board reserves the right to 
withhold from publication any copy it deems 
unfit for publication. Editorial Offices: 
Skibo 50, (412) 578 2112 Business Offices: 
Skibo 52, (412) 578 2113. Mailing address: 
Skibo 103, Student Activities, Carnegie- 
Mellon University, Pittsburgh, PA 15213. 
Funded in part by the Activities Fee. 
All rights reserved.

---------------------------------------------------

IS LOOKING FOR ANOTHER fiORIE
When you spend four years cooking eight tons 
of pitchblende down to a single gram of radium, 
that’s perseverance.
Perseverance, and the confidence to know when 
you’re right, and the courage to keep going.
We’d like to find a few more people like that.
We have a lot to offer in exchange. As a worldwide 
group of companies, with galaxy-wide interests, we 
have room for tons of raw materials and time for 
years of patience. And sometimes it seems almost
everyone here’s an engineer, right up to the top, so we 
speak your language.
We’re the world’s largest maker of helicopters, air­
craft engines, elevators, escalators, and air condition­
ers. There’s always something cooking in spacesuits 
or fiber optics. We’re at the center.
Check us out. Stop in at the Skibo Ballroom on 
Tuesday, January 14, 7:30-9:00pm. Or write for more 
information to: United Technologies, P.O. Box 1379, 
Hartford, CT 06143.
UNITED 
TECHNOLOGIES
United Technologies means Pratt & Whitney, Hamilton Standard, Otis, Carrier, Automotive Group, United Technologies Microelectronics Center, Norden, Chemical Systems, Essex, Sikorsky and United Technologies Research Center.
An equal opportunity employer.
'»ry »ff
? W«v"
I-'“-* ! • -¦

---------------------------------------------------

Acme.
Announcements
Three River’s Arts Festival. Musicians, singers, dancers, and theater and mime groups who can present a strong 45 minute production are urg­ed to audition for the Festival which takes place June 6-22. Auditions are February 1,8, & 15. For information call Donna Garda at 261-7040.
Busch Gardens, the Dark Continent, in Tam­pa, Florida will be holding auditions in Pitts­burgh on Wednesday, Jan. 29 at the Hyatt Pitts­burgh, Chatam Center. Sought are entertainers, technicians, and stage managers for the 1986 season. Call 813/988-5161 for information.
The Red Cross will be conducting one and two day classes in First Aid and CPR throughout January. For dates and registration call the Red Cross Health Services Department at 263-3100.
Want To Quit Smoking? CMU’s Department of Psychology and the National Cancer Institute are looking for volunteers who have a serious desire to quit smoking to participate in a study of what factors help them quit. For further information call 578-3295.InterVarsity Christian Fellowship. Large group meeting, Friday nights at 7:00 pm, Skibo Rm. 
12. Also, there are daily prayer meetings in the Chapel (Skibo Rm. 39) at 6:00, Monday through Saturday. For more information call Jeff Evans at 578-4218.
Classifieds
“Trisket” one year female ferret,
descented, spayed, cage, leash, and ac- 
cesories. Sue X5941.
$10-$360 Weekly/Up Mailing Circulars!
No quotas! Sincerly interested rush self- 
addressed envelope: Success, POBox 
470CEG, Woodstock, IL 60098.
PITTSBURGH GUITARS—We buy, sell,
& trade used and vintage guitars. 4806 
Liberty, Bloomfield, across from West Penn 
Hospital. 621-4733.
$60.00 PER HUNDRED PAID for remail 
ing letters from home! Send self-addressed, 
stamped envelope for information/applica­
tion. Associates, Box 95-B, Roselle, NJ 
07203.
Miscellaneous
President to have open office hours for students. Richard M. Cyert will have open of­fice hours for students between 3 pm and 5 pm, in his office, 602 Warner Hall on Tuesday, January 28. Students who wish to meet with the president should telephone his secretary, 
578-2200, to set up an appointment.
Events
14
Tuesday
Movies
1984, starring Richard Burton, John Hurt, Suzanna Hamilton, Cyril Cusack. George Orwell’s 1956 version of the future in a 
tense screenplay. Pittsburgh Playhouse, 7:30 pm, 
9:40 pm. Admission $2.95.
Rollerball, sponsored by the CMU Robotics Club. DH 2210, 6, 8:30, 11 pm. Admission $1. 
Sports
Women’s Basketball away game against John Carroll University, 7 pm.
Clubs
Student Senate Meeting. Skibo Wherrett Room,
7 pm. Everyone welcome.
Lectures
Precipitation Processes in Al-Li-Zr Alloys Prof 
John B. Vander Sande, M.I.T., Cambridge, MA.
Chemical Engineering Seminar. Professor John 
Angus, Department of Chemical Engineering, 
Case Western University, will speak on 
“Computer-Generated Phase Diagrams: Applica­
tion for Aqueous REDOX Systems" at 11:00 am 
in Doherty Hall 1112. Coffee and donuts trill be 
served at 10:45 am in DH 1102. Open to the 
public.
Art
Forbes Gallery mil feature an exhibition of stu­
dent art by Sue Panetta, Jerome Guzy, and Mike 
Killen. Hours are Wednesday - Friday 11 am to 
6 pm and noon to 5 pm on Saturday and Sun­
day. The exhibition closed on Sunday, January 
19th.
15
Wednesday
Movies
Gandhi, featuring Ben Kingsley, 
John Gielgud, Martin Sheen, and directed by Richard Attenborough. A superb screen biography of Gandhi' life. Playhouse, 7:30pm. 
Admission $2.95.
Sports
Men’s Basketball home against John-Carroll 
University, 8 pm.
Swimming meet home against Virginia Military 
Institute, 6:30 pm.
Recreation
La Table Française, the French language table. 
Morewood Dining Room, 12 pm. Everyone 
welcome.
Clubs
AIESEC, an international, student-run business 
organization, offers a world of experience, both 
practical and cultural. Skibo 11, 4:30 pm. 
Everyone welcome.
Art
Panetta, Guzy, and Killen at the Forbes 
Gallery. See January 14th.
16
Thursday
Movies
What’s Up, Doc? Barbara Strei­sand and Ryan O’Neal in a hilarious farse about an eccentric lady and a musicologist. Pittsburgh Playhouse, 7:30 pm, 9:30 pm. Admission $2.95.
Kind Hearts and Coronets. Doherty Hall 2210, 
6 pm, 8 pm, 10 pm. Admission $1.00.
Recreation
Deutscher Stammtisch, the German language 
table. Morewood Dining Room, 12 pm. Everyone welcome.
Clubs
CMU Explorer’s Club plans rock-climbing, 
kayaking, caving, hiking, and more. Skibo 12, 
8 pm. Beginners welcome.
Lectures
The Hemodynamic Response To Burn Injury 
and Resuscitation. Cot. Basil A. Pruitt, Jr., 
M.D., U.S. Army Institute of Surgical Research, 
Brooke Army Medical Center. 12:30 in Doherty 
Hall 1102. A light lunch «rill be served at noon 
and a question and answer session will follow.
Art
Panetta, Guzy, & Killen at the Forbes Gallery. 
See Tuesday the 14th.
17
Friday
Movies
Dance With a Stranger, starring Miranda Richardson, Rupert Everett, Ian Holm. Excellent file based on a true story about a hostess 
at a small London club who falls in love with a race car driver, and then ends up killing him. Pittsburgh Playhouse, 7:30, 9:30, 11:30 pm. Ad­mission $2.95.
Ambulatory Independents/ Permormative Alliances. Pittsburgh Filmmakers, 205 Oakland Ave. 8 pm only, admission is $3.00.
Mask. DH 2210 6,8,10,12 pm. Admission $1.00. 
Lectures
Why Space is Not a Substance, by John Earman 
of the University of Pittsburgh Philosophy and 
Science Dept. 3:30 to 6:00 pm in Porter Hall 
223D.
18
Saturday
Movies
After Hours. Arquette, Dunne, 
Heard, Garr, Cheech & Chong. Wild black com­
edy about being single in the Big Apple. Pitt­
sburgh Playhouse, 7:30 pm, 9:40 pm, 11:50 pm. 
Admission $2.95.
Birdy. Dohery Hall 2210, 6, 8:30, 11 pm. Ad­
mission $1.00.
CMU TRAVEL OFFICE
Sports
Men’s Basketball away game against Hiram Col­lege, 2 pril.
Women’s Basketball home against Hiram Col­lege. 2:00 pm.
Swimming home against John Carroll Universi­ty, 1:00 pm.
Pianist Catherine Kautsky gives are recital in­cluding Mozart’s Rondo in A minor, the Sonata 
in A major by Schubert, George Crumb’s Makrokosmos Volume I and Chopin Waltzes no. 1 and 4. 8 pm in the Morris Kaufmann Auditorium, 315 S. Bellefield Ave., Oakland.
19
Sunday
Movies
Bizet’s Carmen. Fine screen adap­tion of Bizet’s opera. Playhouse, 7:30 pm. Ad­mission $2.95.
Music
Andrew Schultze, baritone, presents a recital of 
songs and arias at the Frick Fine Arts 
Auditorium, Pitt campus, at 3 pm. There is no 
admission charge.
20
Monday
Movies
Yessongs. Meddy says “Classic 
footage of the progressive rock band Yes in con­
cert, 1975.” Pittsburgh Playhouse, 7:30 pm, 9:30 pm. Admission $2.95.
Clubs
A Phi O meets in Skibo Wherrett Room at 7 pm.
DESIGN COMPETETION
OBJECT: To design a recreation area by Doherty 
Hall (the academic area), where people 
can gather between classes.
Triangular strip of land next to Doherty. 
Not to exceed $25,000 
Senior Class of 1986
SITE:
COST:
CLIENT:
ORIGINALITY COUNTS! 
$100 PRIZE
Submissions due by February 3, 1986, at the 
Skibo Information Desk.
Any Questions contact Robin at X4830 
or Jay x202l
THIS IS YOUR CHANCE TO INFLUENCE 
THE “LOOK” OF THE CAMPUS!
SKIBO 40A 578-2921 
I-----1------1------1------1-
,Go home without a hass/*

---------------------------------------------------

CMU Computer Store
CMU Computer Store: UCC - A level
Phone: x2636 MM: PS00@TE 
For a current price list: Type HELP COMPUTER-STORE-PRICES on any 
TOPS System.
Macintosh Special!
Buy a Macintosh and receive a 
$100.00 discount or get 
$150.00 in additional 
merchandise FREE. 
While Supplies Last!
NOTE: Due to the lack of availability of 512k upgrade boards, 
those wishing to purchase 512k Macintoshes may have to 
purchase 128k machines and upgrade them as soon as the 
memory boards become available. Buyers may apply the 
$150.00 discount to the purchase of the memory upgrade.
*ALSO: Receive a free copy of MacProject and MacDraw with 
every Macintosh Purchased!!!!!
Eim1- -mi88 0*2*dermatologist
• student disc ount available
• easily accessible b\ bus from c:\ll
3500 Fifth Ave, Suite 102, Oakland 
682-0616
\lasi<’r(2nrd. \’isa acn'ptcd 
i '.all
ENGINEERING STUDENTS
Completing Second Year Undergraduate Studies
SCHOLARSHIP & SUMMER EMPLOYMENT OPPORTUNITY
Cleveland Pneumatic Company is seeking two persons for its newly established Manufacturing Engineering Technology Scholarship Program
To qualify, you must
• be completing second year studies;• be an Engineering (Mechanical or Industrial) major• have top academic credentials including strong mathematics studies;• be a permanent resident of the Greater Cleveland area (family residence within 30 miles of Cleveland).• have an interest in the Manufacturing Engineering field.
Additional desirable credentials include
• demonstrated skills or experience in Manufacturmg Engineering;• manufacturing work experience;• knowledge of the aerospace industry
We are offering a scholarship for up to S9 000 plus summer employment for students who qualify for third and fourth year studies m the Manufacturing Engineering Programs at Boston University (Boston. MA) or Weber State (Ogden. UT)
To apply send a letter of interest to
Linda Urmeti, Cleveland Pneumatic Company, 3781 East 77th Street, Cleveland, Ohio 44105. An Equal Opportunity Employer M/F/H
Cleveland
Pneumatic
Landing Gear
Pneumo
An IC Industries Company
-----------
FIRST TRINITY LUTHERAN CHURCH 
(Missouri Synod) 
531 North Neville Street. Oakland
(within walking distance of campus)
ADULT BIBLE CLASS: 9:45 AM 
WORSHIP SERVICE: 11:00 AM 
SUNDAY EVENING FELLOWSHIP: 7:30 PM 
(at parsonage, 535 North Neville)
Pastor Robert Hader 683-4440
USJHMKitS+-0M5»61i
\k(T)itSSdOl'T £ <7) «t 0 dfc#a.T'L X 1 t>"
EnurL 4,l4NSO NaJaLaC SMla U
fxiLlx znmmmnimzi&isbT^ t r
*BT(iAf tz < ? A,<7)A* L
tz^t^xxi'it z<ntzuInThis nmizffltzm
b $ Liz MáBíá.
i T<7)T\
t)-tt(7)_bx C#ÍPT $ X.ñ fcSPA' Lit
1. DATE
2. PLACE
February 17 (expected)*
On campus or near the campus*
*See your College Newspaper the week of 
February 10th through February 14th
or see the poster at the Career Planning and Placement Center.
3. F*3 £
4.RECRUIT U.S.A., INC.
700 S. Flower St., Suite 3210 
Los Angeles, CA 90017 
Hl-800-325-9759 
SI-800-423-3387 (In California)
^RECRUIT U.S.A., INC.
Precision
Haircut
onlyM3.00
Complete with shampoo ft blow style
Precision Haircuts custom designed 
for the look you want
Designer. Just.A.Cuf 
Perm
AA °nlV*25.00 $8.00
complete wtth• «ritten guarantee I
Precision haircut only
SATISFACTION GUARANTEED1 
Great Styles Start at..
No Appointments0fissaY
CHNcnmms.
NOAPPOINTMENT
NECESSARY
I WITH IHIJ COUPON I
save $2.00 
I on the Precision Haircut I| Complete with shampoo ft styling |
!ss 687-3500
PRECISION HAIRCUT TERS
237 Atwood Street 
Across the street from 
Oakland Post Office

---------------------------------------------------

NEW!
CLUB MED ST. LUCIA
Only $800 + $50 Membership 
COMPLETE
Includes:
• Round-trip airfare — New York-St. Lucia
• Baggage handling
• Transfers at destination
• Accommodations for 7 nights/8 days
• Breakfast
• Lunch and Dinner with unlimited wine
• Swimming
• Sailing
• Tennis
• Aerobics/water exercises
• Archery
• Horseback riding
This special introductory rate is indeed extraordinary! St. Lucia 
is a tropical paradise located just south of the island of Martinique 
in the West Indies. Each air-conditioned bungalow here has a 
balcony overlooking the sea. Horseback riding is offered for all 
levels, four tennis courts are available for play-day or night, or 
you might try sailing school on one of two large cruisers. Of course 
you’ll want to swim—in the pool or the sea, or try the jacuzzi or a 
day-long picnic or a boat ride.
Everything will be provided for your pleasure at Club Med. 
Guides are available to answer questions, act as your hosts, and 
help you to relax and enjoy yourself. You’ll have plenty of com­
pany from all over the world at Club Med—or, if you prefer utter 
peace and quiet with time to yourself, all you have to do is choose it.
Best of all, there are no hidden costs at Club Med because your 
all-inclusive vacation is prepaid. The only extras are optional 
excursions, drinks at the bar (other than the wine, which flows 
freely at lunch and dinner) and personal purchases.
Go on . . . give us a call. We’ll twist your arm for you.
Vacation Travel 
521-7300 
Business Travel 
CMU ext. 2999
MUSICIANS
PERFORMERS
TECHNICIANS
Inter \ iew s for tec hni< ians and Herrnst jin Hears 
will begin a** soon as registration opens. 
Auditions for singers and musicians 
will begin one hour after registration op«-ns.
Your favorite 
Wendy’s, Arby’s, 
Kentucky Fried Chicken, etc 
delivered to your dorm. 
Call
687-FOOD
5:00 ptm. to Midnite. 7 Days a Week. 
Dorms/Fiaternities/Sororities Only
Collegiate Delivery Services, Inc.
Ann Arbor, Mich.:
Monday, Jan. 13
University of Michigan 
Michigan Union 
Anderson Room 
Registration: 2:30-5:30 p.m.
Kalamazoo, Mich.:
Tuesday, Jan. 14
Western Michigan University 
Dalton Center 
(park at Miller Auditorium) 
Registration: 2:30-5:30 p.m.
East Lansing, Mich.: 
Wednesday, Jan. 15
Michigan State University 
MSU Union Ballroom 
Registration: 4-7 p.m.
Pittsburgh, Pa.:
Friday, Jan. 17
University Inn 
Forbes at McKee Place 
Registration: 9 a.m. - I p.m.
Kent, Ohio:
Saturday. Jan. 18
Kent State University 
Wright-Curtis Theatre 
Registration: 9 a.m. - I p.m.
Columbus, Ohio:
Monday, Jan. 20
Ohio State University 
School of Music - Weigel Mall 
Registration: 2:30-5:30 p.m.
Dayton, Ohio:
Tuesday, Jan. 2 I
Ramada Inn i^orth 
4079 Little York Road 
Registration: 2:30-5:30 p.m.
Indianapolis, Ind.: 
Wednesday, Jan. 22
Butler University 
Atherton Center - third floor 
Registration: 2:30-5:30 p.m.
Bloomington, Ind.; 
Thursday, Jan. 23
Indiana University 
Indiana Memorial Union - 
Solarium
Registration: 2:30-5:30 p.m.
Sandusky, Ohio:
Saturday, Jan. 25
Cedar Point
Employee Visitor Center 
Registration: 9 a.m. - I p.m.
Bowling Green, Ohio: 
Monday, Jan. 27
Bowling Green State University 
University Union Ballroom 
Registration: 9 a.m. - I p.m.
FOR FURTHER 
INFORMATION CONTACT: 
Live Show Auditions 
Cedar Point'
C.N. 5006.
Sandusky, Ohio
THE FAIRFAX APTS!!
^ WITHIN A FEW BLOCKS OF CMU 
^ REASONABLE RENTAL RATES! 
^ THE FINEST HI-RISE IN OAKLAND! 
^ “THE FAIRFAX" ...4614 5th AVE.! 
YOU'RE in our neighborhood, drop in!
Furnished Apts. Available
The management invites the Faculty 
Merfibers, Graduate Students & CMU 
Guests to visit and .inspect our ONE 
BEDROOM & STUDIO APARTMENTS
Available for immediate occupancy
Dial 621-4030
We'll see YOU at 
"THE FAIRFAX" ...Neighbor.

---------------------------------------------------

Funnies.
•TONII6HT ON
71MAZ.ING
STORIES’/
/ THEY - 
/OFFICIALLY 
^APOLOGIZE FOR
TUElfZ. Actioms -v^TO THE INTERNATIONAL^
mVEENMSOb LMe s
CGASG ALL 
TERRORIST ACTIVITY...
J teo - -s^ 
/KHADAFY - "
' res/gns, /.And 
All of his Money 
to charity, and 
PROMISES HE 
*AIN'T G>ONNA play
Sl)N CITY'.'..
oth‘h57 8MBb 
78 FAR t WILL
suspend my 
disbelief, MR, 
SPIELBERG.
LIBYA SIGNS 
A PEACE TREATY 
45,A ugi :— 
AND ISRAEL,'.,
by Nabil Liumang
THE BIG CHEESETHE BIG CHEESETHE BIG CHEESETHE BIG CWEE5L
RIGHT,MR. PRESIDENT. WtLL 
WE FINALLY BOUGMTOUTALL 
CO OWNERS, AND V/E NOW 
OWN ALLTUE Cuii7icC 
vi $7C6 6-utyeio
CONTROLLING STOCK OF 
THE EX*ON CORPORATION-
AND JUST RECENTLY 
WE'VE BEEN TRYING TO 
ACQUIRE A 5N\ALL ISLAND 
FOR MORE TECHNCLO^lC^ 
RE5EARCH.
HELLO GENTLEMEN. WELCOME 
BACK AFTER TUAT LONG VACATION. 
WE WILL DISCUSS RIGHT NOW 
ALL TUE BUSINESS TRANSACTIONS 
WE HAVE RECENTLY DONE.
JAPAN
WUAT WAS THAT ISLAND CALLED?
Poindexter
I -NwJ* ybu'pç 
ivç icpAA "foer awc^io“ 
wm'tvA Twe "vçpvi
^ ttCKT£,H VP v.
.. ... Wf«Auy t
Me^ep uf rue- Titpe^un-rt «f.
TXe C4.M.Ç. M/D I'M 
o’pxcgwf OV d-2O 
6 R,y/I
¦v v TMÇ
ss ..Iivg­aaa
tw Vbu AKiyTHi^& 
<2Mi,TeUC,TN« ^vcp. 
wwre^. Vk>tiokx ?
I TÊIÇ0 TO '
BÉ*r AHÇAp- fijp.
ATHAiT (4- 
Supposes T0 
L ee i/ufcsy^e
IT'S Ai 
¿ÌMMOtJ
fourbie
The Top Floor by M
Puffy Pig
m Au- fit/sâWA jINPALESTlNtMD 
Gll/E TO ÜSrA kJ5l/~\ /
TO C ITT 0/\------y —-f
BEIRUT ,OR\" \
WElLOWUF
AIRPLANE.^\nn
by Peter Godlewski
SpeecSia ltioT
IBRRCftsM 15 FvR Lc&EPà.

---------------------------------------------------

January 14, 1986-The Tartan-Page 27
Nollem EigenracMike McHugh & Co.
ojmr we 
vou t»nos
UV THERE ?
i£TS PUT yy ouit CJtfY.£Z>, y'ou fluoiDrr, 
ueuex Be none ujheu 
)mR kt
ue:NwFa nor\e treEN ....
Inks pots
The Digressional 
by Kurt Shaw Choice
by Seth Eliot 
& Mike McHugh
B8»riîlfl
“I can’t seem to be able to read 
your doctor’s handwriting, but 
here’s three good guesses.”
Ms
—i—^Z71 A^Tn
inr
m ' v \ v 1
i
‘The Cashiers office has found a small 
discrepancy with your Sping Semester Bill.”
BLOOM COUNTYmStudent Dormitory Councilby Berke Breathed
s* •wi®-
w-
SPY TRIALS RELAX.hrwv5 srm ismm ye peFetwtoso Sppecia luea
mu.-me mrPrSp sie ve Pogsaaapscriaa mvmmPUO...
irsa you pour suppose -me SHUT UP. "JURY MX ' ¡5 . IPON'Tmumm UKe tau< -m 
a xrrm pox • communists.
00 YOU f I
YTrs ùernieMEN..THIS TRIAL 15 PRAMNGL£T5 set. ft umeMUN6 Hem
\
Youf lYSYR esptomee ts r semjs cme. epIYpc oYSAP seme LYp gEii PlrS otMJY of misrme ACT/v/nes' ~,
HA ' UHATA CROCK ' MY CueHT IS 60ILTY OF HIGH TREASON. YOU KHOW IT. I KNOW IT. SO LSTSsee REVNAIW pone seK VV.K 
eAO w THe am .ru ¡ers
BLOW THIS PUMP AHP 
60 FOP PIZZA çy
topmr.. nom. when -me wsecmp asks you if you're a comte spy answer 'topp, no/ i L<m america apple p/e anp tee iacocw
\WÄ
CAN YOU 5AY THAT'TRY IT...’LOPP. NO.. " GOON..L.... -THAT'SLO... RIGHT..
mïr.lïTTÙ ^C‘ \\
KMIME1H6 „ glorious ¿mat fomrCAFtmrtmmaw/
*70
THAT'SHOTRK/HT
THUS MH. CAT, YOUP LAWYER HAVING Piefi mùAlNeP YOUtwo m eiecm am i now seNime you ym pie me— \
am nhf wm me mWHOLE TIME ' YES ' M/TH Mi ' A LOOie MYSTERY MOM AH " LIVING IN ôtN ' MY ,r^~pepumrioN is mrm'i *BIST 1 HAP TV COME. j • FOMKP' I im
sYc RX SYP mmA SMlPbEN Of \THIS, APF YOU 7 y ^
irl
ne mm *'*NcmceDmum’sAme* y> .j
t-WbHABU' Yes YOUPHONOR. IT'S LMHA&e TO wen THINK THAT MY CueNT i<5 * COMMUNIST.FACT He IS to imCCAfCYnwNhs ctn/eN
. - Ù ÄV 
TifnWilrA
THF. PPOSeCUTlON WOULV 
UK£ 10 SUBMIT A PHOTO 
OF THC PFFiHPAN! AT A 
MOSCOW NUPtST CAMP.e me spprn 
of mz. *-
•>111 Èi
/ 0^_ 
'<T\
Jit ' V
TVPjhMYCAReex „is in me V >TOI Li T i y
\
V £?Æ%
• i

---------------------------------------------------

623-0400
Stp< " urgh' pA
k.'Pm——fEE
r FOUR SUR I I
•COUPON-
PIZZA2
BIG 12" 
ONE ITEM
IPIZZAS
s6ei »6Ml6e lic lyDDt vi ciCicwi ugi cydgu u6
• COUPON EXPIRES JAN. 3t, 1986 LIMIT OUR DELIVERY AREA b.— ..—...—.COUpON.————
raune»---------------------COUPON---------------------
¡¡¡¡Li BIG 12" o^
ONE ITEM
PIZZA
AND 2 16 0Z. COKES
ONE COUPON PER PIZZA WE RESERVE THE RIGHT TO 
COUPON EXPIRES JAN. 31, 1986 LIMIT OUR DELIVERY AREA 
................ ¦COUPON“————'
FOURSttJt
PIZZA
•COUPON—
BIGSUB
A
12" cT
¦ ONE COUPON PER SUBWE RESERVE THE RIGHT TO
I COUPON EXPIRES JAN. 31, 1986 LIMIT OUR DELIVERY ARFAV....————COUPON—'
