VOL. 49—No. 4 CARNEGIE INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY TUES., OCT. 11, 1955
Bill Brant Is Featured 
At Homecoming Dance
Bill Brant, well known Pittsburgh television and radio per-4 
sonality, will bring his orchestra to the Carnegie Tech campus for 
its annual Homecoming Dance Saturday, October 22.
Holding awards in almost every entertainment media—“Most
Popular Disc Jockey”, “B e s t^-----------------------------------------------------
Television Master of Ceremonies”,
“Outstanding Television Personal­
ity”, and “Best Television Variety 
Show,” Bill Brant has recently 
organized a top-flight band of his 
own. In less than a year it has 
become one of Pittsburgh’s most 
outstanding orchestras and is in 
popular demand for area collegi­
ate events. He is currently en­
gaged as the permanent orchestra 
at Pittsburgh’ Vogue Terrace.
As far back as ten years, when 
he was a trumpeter with a travel­
ing band, Bill wanted to lead his 
own band. His musical background 
is sound and varied and he has 
definite ideas about contemporary 
music, as his radio and television 
fans will testify.
The Bill Brant Show is heard 
daily from 6 to 9 a.m. on WJAS, 
and his television show is seen 
Mondays, Wednesdays, and Fri­
days at 1:00 p.m. on KDKA-TV.
With his orchestra are Johnny 
Costa, a Carnegie Tech graduate 
of the music department, and 
Patti Troy, a Pittsburgh girl and 
recent recording sensation of “You 
Are The One”, is featured as
Campus Conduct 
Is Vital Subject 
Discussed By CFP
Campus conduct, a subject much 
discussed during the past few 
weeks, was one of the main points 
of the last CFP meeting. The pur­
pose was to formulate a general 
fraternity opinion on conduct 
about campus. Louis Teti, presi­
dent of CFP has met with stu­
dent dorm representatives in an 
effort to arrive at a unified policy. 
They have produced a resolution 
concerning conduct in Morewood 
Gardens and at Tech football 
games. CFP will continue the pa­
trol of the campus on social eve­
nings which it instituted last year.
The meeting was addressed ear­
lier by Mr. Jack Johnson, Coordi­
nator of Alumni Relations. He 
stressed the importance of Home­
coming as a means to better the 
alumni relations of both the fra­
ternities and school.
Eight fraternities participated in 
the fall carnival of Shadyside Boys’ 
Club on this past Saturday. With 
Homecoming so close at hand, this 
represented no little effort on the 
part of those houses which con­
tributed their time and pledges.
The subject of pledge raids had 
its annual reopening at this meet- 
[Continued on page 8]
Queen Election
Tech meh will vote for the 
1955 Homecoming Queen and 
Court next Tuesday, October 
18, from 11:30-1:30 in Skibo. 
Alpha Phi Omega honorary 
wil conduct the voting.
Tau Beta Pi 
T utoring Again
This year, as in the past, Tau 
Beta Pi is offering free tutoring in 
freshman and sophomore technical 
courses. The purpose of this pro­
gram is to provide supplementary 
instruction to those students who 
feel that such work will enable 
them to keep up better in their 
regular studies. The tutoring is 
done in small classes, the students 
themselves usually deciding upon 
the material to be covered. Em­
phasis is on understanding of the 
subject matter rather than the so­
lution of particular problems. The 
tutors are highly qualified upper­
classmen who have distinguished 
themselves in the fields in which 
they are tutoring.
Tutoring is being planned in the 
following courses:
Mathematics—S221, S222, S223, 
S224.
Chemistry—S101, S102.
Physics—S402, S403, S404.
Classes Begin October 31
Each class will be scheduled at 
[Continued on page 8]
Bill Brant
Homecoming Dance Bandleader
vocalist. Bill Brant and hi$ 
Orchestra will play in the main 
gymnasium from 9:00 to 1:00.
Carl Arter to Play 
Featured in the Women’s Gym­
nasium will be Carl Arter, popular 
stylist of jazz. Currently playing 
at the Musician’s Club here in 
Pittsburgh, the Arter organization 
features a baritone saxaphone, 
trumpet, a bass who does solo 
numbers, and a drummer who 
sings rock and roll music, both 
blues and jumps. Carl Arter will 
play from 9:00 on with an inter­
mission for the awarding of tro­
phies in the Main Gymnasium.
Homecoming 
Dance Tickets
Tickets for the semi-formal 
Homecoming dance on October 
22 went oil sale yesterday and 
will be sold for the next two 
weeks from 11:30 to 1:30 p.m. 
In Skibo by members of Mor­
tar Board and ODK. The price 
is $2.75 per couple.
The 1955 Homecoming Queen 
To Be Chosen Next Tuesday. , [
In keeping with campus tradition, one of seven lovely freshman 
girls will open Carnegie Tech’s 1955 Homecoming weekend at Car­
negie Day exercises on Friday, October 21, and reign over the 
-----------------------------------------?entire weekend festivities.
Today in Skibo, under the di­
rection of Jo Lacey and a com­
mittee of Cwens, the seven candi­
dates for Homecoming Queen were 
officially presented to the student 
body with Neil Bernstein acting as 
emcee of the presentation pro­
gram.
This year’s candidates make up 
an exceptionally talented group 
who have found time both during 
high school and this past summer 
to devote to their activities and 
interests. Among them is Joan 
Masteller who reigned as Penn­
sylvania Livestock Queen during 
1952-53. In addition she was active 
in musical organizations and did 
extensive public speaking in high 
school, a talent which qualified 
her for the title of Livestock 
Queen. Joan spent the past sum­
mer in clerical work at a summer 
resort. She is an English major 
here at Tech.
Hailing from Northport, Rhode 
Island is Ann “Pete” Boyer, queen 
candidate from the drama depart­
ment. During the summer months 
Ann prepped for her studies in 
drama with a scholarship appren­
ticeship in summer stock at the 
Olney Theatre in Olney, Maryland. 
In high school she was a repre­
sentative to UNESCO and included 
modern dance and choir among 
her many activities.
Another of the candidates is 
Lex Baker, a clothing and textile 
tContinued on page 8]
New Navy-Marine Reserve Center
Won’t the Navy be surprised when on Thursdays the Army 
marches right next to its modern training center which is squeezing 
its way between the Bureau of Mines and the Tech campus. (See 
page 2.)
AAUP Will Sponsor 
T ech Community F orum
New, different, and filling a conspicuous need on campus is the 
Tech Community Forum, whose establishment was announced this 
week by Professor Sara E. Piel, President of the Tech Chapter of 
the American Association of University Professors. Open to the 
" ?entire campus community, stu­
dents, faculty and staff, this seriesCampus Chest Plan 
For This Year 
To Be Changed
With an eye to the not-too- 
distant future, the Advisory Com­
mittee to the Campus Chest met 
to begin formulating plans for the 
1955-56 campaign. Jan Bishop, 
chairman of the campaign, called 
the meeting on October 6 at 7:30 
in the Morewood Doi’m Council 
room, to discuss a redistribution 
of allocations and a change in the 
methods of soliciting.
Education, it was felt by most 
of the committee, should be the 
major receptor of the Chest money, 
as there is a great need in the 
field, both here and abroad, and 
students feel the closest to this 
particular need. In considering 
this, the committee consulted Miss 
Barbara Bavens. a representative 
of the National Scholarship Serv­
ice and Fund for Negro Students. 
Her description of the activities 
of this organization, as well as 
data from the National Students 
Association which described both 
the NSSFNS and the World Uni­
versity Service, further convinced 
the group of the needs in this field.
of eight monthly Tuesday evening 
lectures is being sponsored by the 
local AAUP group in order to 
afford a much-needed opportunity 
for faculty-student contact and 
intellectual stimulation over and 
above the classroom situation.
Launching this year-long series 
next Tuesday, October 18, will be 
Professor Paul L. Ward, head of 
the history department. Having 
spent most of his life abroad, most 
recently in Red China, Dr. Ward is 
particularly qualified to speak on 
his topic: The Irrationality of the 
Chinese Communists: Some Ob­
servations from Personal Experi­
ence. Following Professor Ward, 
in November, Professor W. H. E. 
Johnson of the psychology depart­
ment will speak on: Soviet-Amer- 
ican Relations: Past, Present and 
Future.
To Be Held In PH 100
These are only two of the eight 
speakers selected from Tech’s 
numerous outstanding faculty 
members who will speak on topics 
of general interest. All of the 
lectures will be held in Room 100, 
Porter Hall, on Tuesday evening;* 
at 7 p.m. The schedule calls for a 
talk of no more than an hour's 
duration, with a question and 
answer discussion period to follow
Student Council 
Busy With Action 
On Campus Issues
Student Council met on October 
5 to discuss and take action on 
some of the issues and problems 
on campus.
A report was given concerning 
the check made on all fraternity 
houses by representatives of Stu­
dent Council dui'ing the Varsity 
C-Club dance. This was made to 
see whether or not the law that 
all fraternity bars were to be 
closed during school functions was 
being enforced. Nine fraternities 
carried out the ruling of Council; 
three fraternities, PiKA, Kappa 
Sig, and DU, were found to have 
disobeyed the law. These frater­
nities will be brought before Stu­
dent Council to explain their vio­
lation of the law.
Calendar Discussed
The issue concerning the prac­
ticality of the school calendar was 
discussed. Council felt that stu- 
j dents should realize the import- 
I ance of scheduling events. The 
; following are a few illustrations j 
i of the necessity of having a cal- j 
endar: (1) the faculty should be 
| informed of student activity (2) 
Morewood girls should have per­
mission to attend scheduled events | 
and (3) the many signs around j 
[Continued on page 7] *
Solicitation for a cause as 
worthy as this should be done by Those wishing to talk person 
those people who really under- to the speaker will normally hav 
stand and are interested in it, the an opportunity to do so after th 
group decided. It was suggested period.
that groups of students be selected j undertaking the Forum, D
from the various areas to cover sa^ that the local AAU
; men’s and women's dorms and | executive board, with the accor 
1 commuters and then be educated j the membership, felt that th 
to the purposes of the Campus might help in the goal of providir 
Chest. It is hoped that by edu­
cating both the solicitors and the 
contributing public, the campaign 
will be far more successful than 
in previous years.
an intellectually stimulating en­
vironment for students and faculty 
at Tech. As a professional organi­
zation of educators, such a pro- 
[Continued on page 8j
Homecoming Program
Friday, October 21
12:30—Carnegie Day .................................................. Gymnasium
3:00—Varsity Varieties ................Morewood Recreation Room
* 4:00—Homecoming Reception and Tea . . . Carnegie Union
* 6:00—Homecoming Dinner ...................... Hotel Webster Hall
7:00—Judging of Fraternity Displays .......... Morewood Area
7:30—Pep Rally and Pledge Competition ................ Tech Bowl
8:30—Open House .................................................. All Fraternities
Saturday, October 22
* 9:00—Registration of Alumni .....................Carnegie Union
* 9:00—Alumni Breakfast .............................. Morewood Gardens
*10:30—Dean’s Question Box .................................... All Schools
*12:00—Homecoming Luncheon....................................Gymnasium
2:00—Carnegie Tech vs. Temple ........................ Forbes Field
* 4:30—Fifth Quarter Cocktail Party . . Sclienley Park Hotel
* 6:30—Dinner Dance ............................ Schenley Park Hotel
9:00—Homecoming Dance ........................................ Gymnasium
11:00—Awarding of Trophies .................................... Gynpnasium
1:00—Fraternity Breakfasts ........................ Fraternity Houses
Sunday, October 23
2—4—Open House ........................................ Morewood Gardens
?Alumni Activities

---------------------------------------------------

Page 2—CARNEGIE TARTAN—Tuesday, Ocober 11, 1955
Eliot’s6 Cocktail Party9 
First Fall Production
Students of the drama department, under the direction of Pro­
fessor Mary Morris, will present T. S. Eliot’s “Cocktail Party” in the 
Little Theatre from October 19 to 29 at 8:15 p.m. A matinee will also 
be given on Friday afternoon, October 28.
"Cocktail Party'' is the third*
play written by the famous Ameri- 
can-British poet T. S. Eliot. In 
all his plays, Mr. Eliot has been 
experimenting with various forms 
of verse which he feels are de­
manded by the audiences of today 
and which he is striving to make 
theatrically effective for those 
audiences.
This play is written in a free 
kind of rhythm with an intensi­
fication of poetic imagery and 
language wherever Mr. Eliot feels 
the emotions in the play demand 
that heightening. Much of it seems 
completely conversational in terms 
of everyday dialogue, but it does 
have an underlying rythym which 
allows both actors and audience to 
rise to exalted moments of feeling.
There are great themes in the 
play having to do with human 
life and its problems, problems 
which Mr. Eliot believes are the 
same today, yesterday, and to­
morrow. He wants to make the 
idea of man’s need for con­
fession acceptable to everyone. 
Mr. Eliot has suggested a philos­
ophy and an acceptance of life for 
all kinds of people . . . the aver­
age struggling man and- woman 
and for the sensitive, more highly 
developed human being who has 
existed in all times—the sort of 
person who can become a martyr 
'or a saint.
The play is conceived and writ­
ten with the greatest originality 
from every point of view. For 
others it says little but a philoso­
phy of life which they either can 
not accept or actively dislike. The 
play ran for over a year in New 
York, and many people returned 
to see it as a result of discussions 
and arguments which enlivened 
many a “Cocktail Party.”
Those in the cast include Claude 
Jenkins as Riley, Vince Romeo 
as Edward, and Irene Baird and 
Linda Effrat as Julia. Peter will 
be portrayed by James Goldswig, 
Alex by Richard Brown, and La- 
vinia by Janice Meshkoff. Taking 
the part of Celia is Rose Marie 
Schneider, with Sherry Moulton 
as nurse and secretary, and Rob­
ert Prothero as the caterer’s man.
LeRoy Miller will serve as as­
sistant director to Miss Marris. 
Also included in production, are 
set designer Sue Gordon, light de­
signer Tom Pincu, and costume 
designer Bobby Schultz.
YMCA Meeting 
On Next Tuesday
The fall meeting of the YMCA 
Branch Council will be held Tues­
day, October 18 from 11:30 to 1:30 
in the Blue Room of Morewood 
Gardens.
The Branch Council of the 
YMCA is the totrl membership 
meeting that occurs once each se­
mester. The meeting will include 
the official reports from the stu­
dent cabinet, the committee of 
management, and the branch exec­
utive. The main program will con­
sist of a report by Clarence 
Schmidt, Bob Marik, and Sam 
Gibson of their journey to Europe 
during the past summer to attend 
the Centennial Conference of the 
World’s YMCA, which was held in 
Paris.
Initiation of new members will 
be the final business of the Coun­
cil meeting. All persons interested 
in the YMCA are invited to at­
tend.
All Writers 
Encouraged 
In Scot Plea
By Carolyn Copp
The Scot, by constitution a var­
iety magazine and by habit a 
humor magazine, will be both this 
year. Our good intention is to 
broaden the subject matter and 
throw out the old assumption that 
every reader’s orbit is strictly 
Skibo and the Bookstore, or at 
least make it more de-emphasized 
than football. Keep your eye 
peeled, among the unfunny arti­
cles, for articles which aren’t in­
tended to be funny.
The Scot is, after all, supposed 
to be an ojutlet for creative writing 
around here. “Creative writing”, 
incidentally, means writing done 
on your own time — period. It 
doesn’t mean writing in the mor­
bid modern vein, without benefit 
of capital letters and punctuation 
marks, or mood studies about 
maladjusted youth and withering 
flower arrangements. The Scot 
just wants writin’, and the bars 
are down on subject matter, length 
of article (though we like the 
shortest ones the bestest), or the 
kind of fiction, non-fiction, or 
what-have-you.' Surely there is 
many a frustrated journalist at- 
[Continued on page 8]
Naval Training Center 
Is New Tech Neighbor
By Gene Anderson
On May 20, 1955, ground was broken on the Carnegie Tech 
campus for a new combined Naval and Marine Reserve training cen­
ter. This installation will be in conjunction with the present facili­
ties located on Neville Island. It is predicted that this new center
—-—------—------------------------------------?will eventually replace the Neville
„ if 7 Island branch.Committee Heads 
For Yankee Yarns 
Festival Revealed
Friday, October 21, will mark 
the opening of the 1955 Homecom­
ing festivities on the Carnegie 
Tech campus. The weekend, which 
will celebrate Tech’s fiftieth an­
niversary, is sponsored by Mortar 
Board and Omicron Delta Kappa, 
senior honoraries on campus. The 
theme of this year’s Homecoming 
is Yankee Yams.
Barbara Kerr and Mary Tinker 
of Mortar Board Lave been named 
chairmen of the activities with 
Bob Lindsay of ODK as co-chair - 
man. They have named Ed Feig- 
enbaum, Diane Farrington, and 
Charles Schaull to head the com­
mittee for Carnegie Day, which 
will officially open the weekend 
festivities.
In charge of arrangements for 
Varsity Varieties, sorority skit 
competition which will take place 
Friday afternoon in the Morewood 
Gardens recreation room, are 
Nancy Fee, Barbara Hudacek, and 
Jo Forsythe Lee. Jim Tilbrook and 
Sylvia Fasick are co-chairmen of 
ticket sales.
Moore, Lacey Head Elections
Barbara Moore of Mortar Board 
and Jo Lacey of Cwens are head­
ing arrangements for Queen cam­
paign and elections. The publicity 
committee is headed by Joan New­
man and Jack Recker while Lou 
Bryant is chairman of the invita­
tions committee. Named as co-
The new building will be a three 
level structure costing approxi­
mately $750,000. The frame will be 
of structural steel and the lateral 
walls will consist entirely of glass 
and metal. The two end walls will 
be brick to offset the lateral walls. 
The innovations in construction 
will be applied; these are: sun 
louvers in place of windows and 
movable interior partitions so that 
room sizes may be altered if nec­
essary.
Firm Designed Donner 
A striking feature of the build­
ing will be a giant metal louver to 
shield the west side of the struc­
ture from the sun. It is interesting 
to note that the architects are 
Mitchell & Ritchey, the same firm 
that designed Tech’s Donner Hall.
The interior of the building, 
which is designed to accommodate 
two naval battalions and one 
marine battalion, will include: a 
technical library, garages, class­
rooms, a kitchen, medical exam­
ination and treatment rooms, a 
radio sending and receiving room, 
and numerous shops. In addition 
to the aforementioned facilities, 
the center is equipped to teach 17 
different specialized skills such as 
metalsmith and supply, as well as 
basic logistical skills such as cook­
ing and transportation.
Entrances on Three Levels 
To take advantage of the rough 
terrain, the building has an en­
trance on all three levels. A large 
drill hall occupies most of the low­
er level while the reamining two 
levels are occupied by administra
Homeeomimg 
Publicity Stunt 
Pore folks! traveled all thet way 
only to see Tech lose to Lafayette. | 
Guess they’ll be here Homecomin’ 
time to watch Temple get beat
chairmen of dance decorations | tive spaces and various workshops.
Undoubtedly, the most unique 
characteristic of the structure willwere John Drgon, Tom Wright, 
and Carolyn Copp. In charge of
fraternity display competition are j be an adl glass gunnery cage set 
Bob Lindsay, Dick Major, and Ed
7955-56 Scotch and Soda Directors
John Conboy and John Kestner
International Club
Tech International Club will 
have a business and elections 
meeting in th Carnegie Union 
on Friday, October 14, at 8
Foreign students and Ameri­
can students contemplating 
membership are welcome to 
bring interested friends.
Pasierb.
In charge of arrangements for 
the Homecoming formal are Bar­
bara Moore and Jerry Bracken. 
Wes Folsom heads the committee 
making plans for the Friday night 
pep rally and pledge class cheer 
competition.
-Mary Langdon has been named 
treasurer of the entire organiza­
tion. Michael Pollock and Dick 
Major are in charge of awarding 
trophies at intermission during the 
Saturday night dance which fea­
tures Bill Brant and his orchestra 
and Carl Arter’s Jazz Band.
Abundant Living 
Stressed By Bishop 
G. Bromley Oxnam
“You don’t hate an Earthquake, 
Do You?”
Bishop G. Bromley Oxnam ask­
ed his audience this question last 
Tuesday at the first in the series 
of 11:30 a.m. assemblies present­
ed by the Committee on Religious 
Activities. He was speaking on 
the nature of our contemporary 
crisis—the nature of man and his 
concepts.
The fundamental issues that 
man is confronted with occur, 
says Oxnam, in “if” moments. De­
cisions made in these moments 
sometimes change a whole life. 
However, since change is inevit­
able, there usually must only be 
a choice between consent and Co­
ercion, between democratic prob­
lems and dictatorial imperatives. 
This critical evaluation of man’s 
problems depends on keeping the 
power under the democratic con­
trol of the people and establish­
ing justice with a democratic pro­
cess.
Live Abundantly
The Bishop emphasized that 
man’s most significant single so­
cial factor is a yearning for abun­
dant living. In the e^rly historic 
periods this was a foolish thought, 
for even if someone tried to live 
abundantly he would soon discover 
it to be an impossibility. Today, 
however, men have gone far to­
wards solving the problems of pro­
duction.
Main can face his crisis today, 
fGr there is a fundamental unify­
ing force. Men, as the sons of God, 
are united in the law of love. 
They are morally obligated to 
maintain freedom and to uphold 
the standards of democracy. And 
for this reason, concluded Bishop 
Oxnam it should be obvious that 
there is no need for any social 
“earthquakes” whatsoever.
John Conhoy And John Kestner 
To Direct Scotch And Soda
This year, Scotch ’n Soda will be directed by two Tech students, 
—John Kestner and John Conboy. Although the two Johns are 
alike in physical appearance (both tall and slender), they are com­
pletely different in background and experience.
-----------------------------------------------------? John Conboy began his theatre
experience four year ago and is 
now a senior in the drama depart­
ment, majoring in acting and 
minoring in directing. He has had 
two years of stock as resident 
company actor at the The Triple 
Cities Playhouse appearing in such 
plays as Streetcar Named Desire 
and Another Part of the Forest, 
j But John’s main interest is musi­
cal comedy, acting, and directing. 
For the past two summers, he has 
worked at St. John Terrell’s Music 
Circus as part of a professional 
company doing such established 
hits as “Guys and Dolls” and 
“Finian’s Rainbow”. He is now a 
member of the Actors Equity As­
sociation and plans to become a 
member of the NBC training 
course in New York after gradua­
tion.
Kestner Has Varied Experience
John Kestner is now a junior in 
the painting and design depart­
ment but enjoys work in theatre 
and choral direction. He has al­
ready had his first one-man show 
and, this past summer, was award­
ed first prize in the professional 
and contemporary category at 
Chautauqua Institute. In addition, 
John has designed sets for the 
Erie Dramatic Guild and local 
television shows. Musically, he is 
student director of the Cameron 
Choir and, in his spare time, likes 
to compose serious choral music. 
For fun, he has entertained pro­
fessionally with his opera take­
offs at the piano and has sung 
with a travelling marionette troup.
Both directors have worked with. 
Scotch ’n Soda in the past, John 
Conboy singing “High Born, 
Lucky in Love” with Jeanne Allen 
in “One in a Million”, and John 
Kestner playing the phony French 
waiter in “Adults Only” (besides 
helping to shape the chorus). They 
know and enjoy working with all 
the students, both the old-timers 
and new-comers. It is the people 
who work for the show putting in 
all the grind required to turn a 
few pages of script into a moving, 
vital musical that make Scotch ’n 
Soda an organization that has be­
come a tradition on campus.
Been Thinking of Buying A Car?
Before you bny any car of any make, NEW or USED, see: WALLY DONOGHUE, 101 WELCH HALL 
HE WILL GET THE CAR YOU WANT
AT THE PRICE YOU WANT!
MU 3-0342 or AL 1-3300
off from.the face of the building. 
It will house a five inch gun and 
other electrically controlled) 
mounts and will be visible from 
Forbes Street.
To Open June 1956
The enrollment consists of vet­
erans and several hundred men 
with no previous military service. | 
Included in the latter category are 
young men between the ages of 
17*6-18 years.
The center is scheduled to open 
its doors in June 1956. It will serve 
the Pittsburgh area even better 
than in the past with its modern­
ization and increased facilities.
Attention!!—STUDENTS
FOR THE GIRL IN YOUR LIFE AN AIRLINE 
RESERVATION FOR HOMECOMING WEEKEND IS NEEDED
Don't Defay—Make It Today!
FORBES TRAVEL SERVICE
5800 Forbes St^ Pittsburgh 17, Pa. (Squirrel Hill) JA 1-7300 
No Service Charge Free Ticket Delivery

---------------------------------------------------

Tuesday, October 11, 1955—CARNEGIE TARTAN—Page 3
On CampuswithMaxÔhuîman
(Author of "Barefoot Boy With Cheek,” etc.)
WRCT ScheduleVoting
THE PEN IS MIGHTIER THAN THE SMOOCH
Back in my courting days (the raccoon coat was all the rage, 
everybody was singing Good Morning, Mr. Zip, Zip, Zip and 
young Bonaparte had just left Corsica) back, I say, in my court­
ing days, the standard way to melt a girl’s heart was to write 
poetry to her.
Young men today have abandoned this gambit, and I must 
say I don’t understand why. Nothing is quite as effective as 
poetry for moving a difficult girl. What’s more, poems are 
ridiculously easy to write. The range of subject matter is end­
less. You can write a poem about a girl’s hair, her eyes, her nose, 
her lips, her teeth, her walk, her talk, her clothes, her shoes— 
anything at all. Indeed, one of my most lambent love lyrics was 
called To Maud’s Pencil Box. It went like this:
In your dear little leatherette pencil box 
Are pencils of yellow and red,
And if you don't tell me you love me soon,
I’ll hit you on top of the head.
Honesty compels me to admit that this poem fell short of 
success. Nothing daunted, I wrote another one. This time I 
pulled a switch; I threatened myself instead of Maud.
Oh, Maud, pray stop this drivel 
And tell me you'll be mine,
For my sweetbreads they do shrivel 
And wind around my spine.
mMy heart doth cease its beating.
My spleen uncoils and warps.
My liver stops secreting.
Soon I needs be a corpse.
When this heart-rending ballad failed to move Maud, I could 
only conclude that she was cruel and heartless and that I was 
better off without her. Accordingly, I took back my Hi-Y pin, 
bid her adieu, and have not clapped eyes upon her since. Last I 
heard of her, she was in North Scituate, Rhode Island, working 
as a clam sorter.
^ther&W.tdUfâ- mere C t Woaùf. hâve ended. if- She-had tit- bectidrjit&j
But I did not mourn Maud long, for after Maud came Doris— 
Doris of the laughing eyes, Doris of the shimmering hair, Doris 
of the golden tibiae! Within moments of meeting her, I whipped 
up a torrent of trochaic tetrameter:
Oh, my sweet and dulcet Doris!
You’re gentle as a Philip Morris,
With its mild and rich tobacco 
And its white and scarlet pack-o,
Both in regular and king-size.
Doris, tell me please your ring size.
Well, of course, the poor girl couldn’t resist a poem like that— 
what girl could?—and she instantly became my slave. For the 
rest of the semester she carried my books, washed my car, and 
cored my apples. There’s no telling where it all would have 
ended if she hadn’t been drafted.
So, men, you can see the efficacy of poetry as an aid to wooing. 
Try it soon. All you need is a rhyming dictionary, a quill pen, 
and a second-hand muse. * ««•* shuiman, isss
The makers of PHILIP MORRIS, sponsors of this column, give you 
no rhyme, but plenty of reason, for smoking Philip Morris: It’s the 
gentlest, pleasantest cigarette on the market today.
Playhouse
With the new season underway 
at the Pittsburgh Playhouse and 
the comedy “Reclining Figure” set 
for a three week run, two more 
“openings” will take place next 
week. “Reclining Figure,” the com­
edy dealing with art and its col­
lectors, opened successfully last 
Saturday evening and it will con­
tinue its run through Oct. 22 in 
the Hamlet St. Theater.
Set to swing into two-theater
I operation, the Playhouse is now 
readying itself for the opening of 
another comedy, “The Remarkable 
Mr. Pennypacker.” It will open a 
three week stay in the Playhouse’s 
Craft Ave. Theater on Oct. 13, un- 
| der the direction of Frederick 
| Burleigh.
“The Remarkable Mr. Penny- 
' packer” is a double-barrelled 
j laugh-riot of a mild little man who 
j leads a double-life. He has one 
I family in Philadelphia and one
5:00
5:05
7:00
7:15
7:30
8:00
9:00
11:00
11:05
5:00
5:05
7:00
7:15
7:30
8:30
9:00
11:00
11:05
5:00
5:05
7:00
7:15
7:30
8:00
9:00
11:00
11:05
5:00
5:05
7:00
7:15
7:30
Tuesday 9:00 p.m.—Music of the
p.m.—Sign On: News
P m ~She ^CSt °n WaXH:05 p!m!—TGIF Club p.m.—News * _ , • ,p.m.—Manhatteri - Saturday -
Melodies 1:00 p.m.—Sign On: Saturday
p.m.—Ohewin’ The Fat Matinee
with Sal and Pat 3:00 p.m.—Presenting Opera
p.m.—Album of Favorites 6:00 p.m.—News
p.m.-the-Music of Masters 
p.m.—News 
p.m.—Night Train Wednesday 
p.m.—News
p.m.—The Best on Wax 
p.m.—News 
pjn.—Stand By For 
Musicp.m.—Musical Moments 
p.m.—211 Club p.m.—Music of the 
Masters 
p.m.—News p.m.—Night TrainThursday
p.m.—Newsp.m.—The Best on Wax 
p.m.—News
6:15 p.m.—Club 670 
9:00 p.m.—Spinner Sanctum 
11:00 p.m.—News 
11:05 p.m.—Night TrainSunday
1:45 p.m.—Sign On: News 
2:00 p.m.—Showcase of Show- tunes
3:00 p.m.—Sunday Chapel 
4:00 p.m.—Sunday Pops 
Concert 
5:30 p.m.—Proudly We Hail 
6:00 p.m.—News 
6:15 p.m.—Music from the Record Room 
7:00 p.m.—Casual 7:30 p.m.—Album of Favorites 
9:00 p.m.—Music of the Masters
^__„„„„ 11:00 p.m.—News
p.m.—Serenade in Blue 11:15 p.m. Night Train 
p.m.—The Mel Hayden Monday
Ensemble 5:oo p.m.—Sign On: Newsp.m.—Album of Favorites 5;05 p m—The Best on Wax
p.m.—Music of the 7;0o p.m.—News
Masters 7:15 p.m.—Serenade in Bluep.m.—News _ 7.30 p m.—Masterworks from
France 
7:30 p.m.—Casualty 
8:00 p.m.—Musical Moments 
9:00 p.m.—Music of the Masters 
11:00 p.m.—News Il:05 p.m.—Night Train
p.m.—Night TrainFriday
p.m.—Newsp.m.—The Best on Wax 
p.m.—News p.m.—Guest Star 
p.m.—Jam Session
The Ivory Toiver
By Uncle “Mash” Pihl
Last Saturday night marked the addition of a 
new late program to the already expanded sched­
ule for WRCT, Tech’s undergraduate radio sta­
tion. The program can be heard from 11:00 Sat­
urday night until 3:00 Sunday morning. As part 
of the firmly entrenched “Night Train” series of 
pop music shows, it has been informally named 
“The Ivory Tower” by master of ceremonies, Mar­
shall Pihl.
Marshall is better known to Tech radio lis­
teners as “Uncle Mash” of last year’s “Music in 
the Morning.” He adamantly announced that “The 
Ivory Tower” plans to keep itself “an aesthetically 
healthy distance from those other particularly un­
appetizing productions on Saturday nights.”
In an interview last night, station manager 
Philip Stein denounced the program as “impos­
sible.” Mr. Pihl later said Mr. Stein was also “im­
possible,” thereby scoring another point for the 
common people. That left this moot point to be de­
cided by Mr. Pihl’s listeners—which brings up an­
other moot point.
In a late communique from New York City, 
CBS Chairman William S. Paley proclaimed: 
“This ‘Ivory Tower’ thing will never get off the 
ground.” Bob and Ray agreed. But a close asso­
ciate of NBC’s General Sarnoff admitted: “Maybe 
there is something to Mr. Pihl’s attempt at color 
radio.” WRCT declined to comment.
By the time this appears, the candidates for 
1955 Homecoming Queen will have been intro­
duced to the potential voters in Skibo. It is true 
that their campaigns are on an extremely small 
scale as compared with the Carnival Queen Cam­
paigns, but this is necessitated by the fact that 
Homecoming Queen candidates are new students 
and cannot be expected to carry on a professional 
campaign for votes and still lay the foundations 
for survival of four years here.
Nevertheless, the interest in the impending 
election should be about 200% greater than it 
now appears to be. In order to insure a fair choice 
of a queen, every qualified voter should exercise 
his voting privilege next Tuesday. The qualifica­
tions are not too restrictive, being that only fe­
males are ineligible to vote. Therefore we would 
like to see at least 2000 votes cast in the election 
next Tuesday.
R.H.R.
Campus Fever
With the French running into so much trouble in 
the UN, the least we could do was go easy on La­
fayette.
* * *
Student apathy in campus activities is a re­
flection of the national leadership problem. What 
this nation needs is more leaders . . . except maybe 
in Harrisburg.
* * *
Much sentiment is being torn down with the old 
DU frat house. The DU’s have often raised the roof 
of their old house but this will be the first time 
that» the whole house has been razed.* * *
Excerpt from an ad appearing in a Scottish 
journal: For smoother more pleasure-ful playing, 
blow the bagpipe with the Micronite filter .
Over The Skibo Table
By Joseph A. Szewc
Mr. William Engle, science editor of the Ameri­
can Weekly, has written an article in the latest 
edition of the Sunday supplement which all smok­
ers should read. The article, titled “The Case For 
The Smoker,” quotes information from various 
sources that tend to disprove that cigarettes are 
connected in any way with lung cancer.
For example; England has a lung cancer rate 
which is twice that of the United States, but England 
has 30% less smokers than the United States. The 
British Medical Journal states that the lung cancer 
death rate in Switzerland and Denmark are iden­
tical to the United States, but these people only 
smoke one half the cigarettes per capita as do 
the Americans.
This brings to mind the thought, “Well maybe 
cigarettes are connected with lung cancer but so 
are other things and therefore the difference in 
statistics.” Dr. Harry S. Greene, noted Yale Uni­
versity pathologist, after exhaustive research, has 
not found one carcinogen (a substance causing 
cancer) in cigarettes. If you’re a smoker, don't 
miss this article, The Case For The Smoker.
Little Quickies: I was glad to gee Juan Peron get
the old heave-ho. I also like kids and movies that
end happily. . . .. It’s too bad that CFP put the 
clamps on the attempted ruling that men must wear 
coats in Morewood’s lobby. I think it’s a good idea 
if the girls dress like women and not like fugitives 
from a Jackie Coogan movie . . . There are three 
ways to avoid embarassment when you fall on a 
dance floor.
1. Just lie ther*. They’ll think you fainted.
2. Get up gracefully and act as though it toas a 
new dance step.
3. Start mopping the floor with your handker­
chief. They’ll think you work there.
- * * *
Heard about a 300 pound python that escaped 
from a carnival in Jackson, North Carolina. The 
jailer and the discoverer of the snake attempted 
to hold the regal python by the tail until a posse 
organized for the hunt could arrive. The python 
disdainfully and promptly proceeded to pull the 
men into the swamp. Reinforcements arrived in 
the nick of time to save the two men and the py­
thon. And I guess that’s a real, true to life, Frank 
Merriweather finish. Or is it Merriwell?
Bob Haring swears that a liberal translation oj 
“Porque Juanito” means “where’s the men’s room.’ 
. . . Epigram of the Week: Blessed are they that run 
in circles for they shall be termed wheels.
family in Wilmington. Then one 
day his troubles begin. Robert Nel­
lis plays the title role and Noel 
Mills and Zelda Wilmurt will also 
be seen in top spots.
Pittsburgh Symphony
Symphony music returns to 
Pittsburgh this weekend as the 
Pittsburgh Symphony Orchestra 
opens its twenty-ninth season with 
a pair of concerts Friday evening 
and Sunday afternoon at Syria 
Mosque.
William Steinberg, back for his 
fourth season as musical director 
| and conductor, will be on the po­
dium to conduct an all-orchestra 
program of Mozart, Strauss and
¦ Brahms.
“Mozart Year”
The 1955-56 season has been 
designated the world over as
“Mozart Year,” celebrating the bi­
centennial of that composer’s birth.j Accordingly, Steinberg has ehoser 
j to lead off the Pittsburgh Sym­
phony season with one of Moz- 
! art’s best loved symphonies, the 
| Jupiter, No. 41 in C Major. Shar- 
| mg the bill will be Richard 
j Strauss’s Symphonic Poem, “Don 
| Juan," and the Symphony No. 2 
by Brahms.
The opening concert Friday 
I night is scheduled to commence at 
| 8:40, and the repeat performance 
I Sunday afternoon is scheduled for 
! 3:10.
Season tickets are still on salt 
at the Symphony office, and the
Kaufmann’s is now ogen for the 
I sale of tickets to individual con­
certs. Single tickets mav also be
William Steinberg
Pittsburgh Symphony Cond

---------------------------------------------------

Page 4—CARNEGIE TARTAN—Tuesday, October 11, 1955(
Open Letter To Students—
Drama Department 
Controversy
.,fccu fcuuer/N
yxyj>
SCHOOL 
FUNCTIONS
This is a letter of information. It is 
not meant to denounce anyone, but rather 
to point up what we think is a chronic ill­
ness on our campus. We realize that the 
issues involved can not be solved overnight: 
they are fundamental to a particular philoso­
phy of education. With this in mind, we 
open up the following issue for your con­
sideration.
Last week the Homecoming Committee 
was informed that the drama department 
had scheduled a main-stage production for 
each night of Homecoming, and rehearsals 
for a special intra-departmental show 
throughout the weekend. A preliminary in­
vestigation turned up the following:
1. Some of the drama students were 
given their choice of whether or not they 
wanted “crew” on the weekend, with the 
comment that a refusal to serve would in­
dicate poor professional attitude. Poor pro­
fessional attitude is a criterion for dismissal 
from the department.
2. The same comment was made to fresh­
men women drama students who wished to 
be excused from a departmental tea at 4:30^ 
on the day of Queen nominations to attend 
the nominating meeting.
3. Classes end at 12:30 p.m. on Friday of Homecoming, 
according to the official school calendar. This is done to 
give students the freedom to attend Homecoming activities. 
The scheduling of performances and rehearsals by the drama 
department in opposition to the calendar restricts this free­
dom. (A misinterpretation of the meaning of the calendar 
by the drama department is possible here, and we recognize 
this.)
4. The general “unwritten” policy of the drama depart­
ment seems to be to discourage their students from partici­
pating in campus activities of any sort.
Findings of this kind point up the fundamental problem. 
The drama department, either knowingly or unwittingly, 
seems to be opposing the extra-academic framework in which 
this school operates under the guise of “professional atti-
/“
-H'
SPRIN6C0H1NG
Oct c v&ryÍJt HEME : =*
OWITCP VE 
STAN©; >1/1 Dft>
WE PALL.1
PEPr. ?UUET* 
ÓV
0cTcemir*r>3
1!
7H€RE U ILL 
Be A SF£W
ÀTTENPAHÎè
kep
mat Now?
definition of‘the status, powers and obliga­
tions of a department (such as drama) in a 
university.
What is needed at this time is a high- 
level statement of policy from the university 
and the drama department restating their 
educational aims in the area of extra-cur­
ricular activities, and defining the role of 
the individual department on the campus.
Dick Major and Ed Feigenbaum.
Editor’s Note: The opinions expressed by those 
who are the contributors of the letters we publish 
are not necessarily those of the TARTAN, but the 
preceding letter expresses views entirely in accord 
with our own. The authors have so aptly and com­
pletely described the problem in question that we 
feel that there is little left for us to add. However, 
tude.” What it fails to realize is that preparation of a stu- we might mention that the plays scheduled to con- 
dent for usefulness as a citizen (as stated on page 11 of flict V>ith Homecoming activities have caused no
the Fine Arts catalog) can not come through academic chan­
nels alone. It must come through integration with and ac­
tivity within the community (which, in the case of the stu­
dent here, is the campus and its life).
Furthermore, we pose the following questions. Should 
any department of the Carnegie Institute of Technology be 
permitted to interfere with and oppose the general program 
of the university? Should any one department be allowed 
to exist by itself in a vacuum? Is the student graduating 
from Carnegie Institute of Technology or from a professional 
drama school? We feel that there is a distinction.
We have only mentioned a few specific infringements 
by the drama department on the life of the campus and the 
life of the student. Others have existed in the past and do 
exist now. It took this conflict at Homecoming to bring 
these to light. The conflict stems first from an apparent dif­
ference in fundamental educational aims between the drama 
department and the University, and second from a lack of
little concern to the hardworking Homecoming 
Committee, in that ticket sales to the dance will not 
be as large as anticipated.
It would seem that the drama department should 
also be concerned over the fact that student at­
tendance at “Cocktail Party” will certainly not be 
up to its usual level. Unfortunately, plans have pro­
gressed to the point where it would be virtually im­
possible to avoid the conflict this year, but as 
Messrs. Major and Feigenbaum mentioned, if we 
could get a statement of policy to guide future 
actions, such an unfortunate situation would be 
prevented in the future.
Letters—
IM Football
OFFICES: Carnegie Union. 5075 Forbes Street. Pittsburgh 13, Pa. Telephone 
ill ^eum 1-4557; after hours MUseum 2-9846, for advertising and subscription 
-ites call SChenley 1-8851. Published weekly during the school year except 
lolidays and examination periods by the students of Carnegie Institute of Tech- iologj. Pittsburgh 13, Pa.
.diter-in-Chief ..............................................................................................................Robert Russell
lusinesa Manager .................................................................................................................Vic Shiry
*ews Kditor............................... ............... ..........................................................................Marjo King
<ports Editor .................................................................................................................Tom Wright
opy Kditor ........................................................................................................................Richard Fox
-eatnres Kditor .................................................................................................. Stephanie Mackay
\ssistant Hu si n ess Manager—Marty Ostroff Advertising Manager—Bob Sorkin. 
ire ulatiiin Manager—Harley Bembach. Reporters—Evelyn Alessio, Marilyn 
_'asoy, Anne Mehler. Pat Mitchell, Joanne Babbitt. Arthur Marino, Barbara 
-lobe.-on. Carolou Fidder. Jane Moore. Lois Griffin, Sally Day. Dolores Chidester, 
<ay Mcltny/er Sports Staff—James Lacey. Dick Swaney, Bqb Hoppe. Photo- 
,-rapliers—John Russell. Don Falk. Art Staff—Carolyn Copp, Don Carter, Robert 
'onnell < opy Staff—Ed Rogers. Jack flecker. Features Staff—Joe Szewc, Mar- 
hall Pihl Office Staff—Carol Milsom, Anne Barnes. Mary Langdon. Copy Run- 
;rrs—Ron Kohl. Jim Plucge. Circulation Staff—Alan Hodel. Ira Levine. Adver-
ass matter on October 4, 1907. at the Post Office at
:t of March 3, 1879. Accepted for mailing at special 
for in the act of February 28. 1925. 
ated Collegiate Press.
¡>nal advertising by National Advertising. Inc. College 
420 Madison Ave., New York City. Subscription« $1.10
Editor, the Tartan:
After having watched the two big games today 
—ATO versus DTD and Kappa Sig versus Sigma 
Nu—I want to speak out for the improved methods 
of handling the games. The rules appear better, 
but more important, the referees are carrying out 
the rules. The referees certainly deserve a pat on 
the back for this work.
Also it is noted that Mr. Birdy or one of his 
group has been to almost every game supervising 
the difficult spots and helping out the referees. His 
guidance is certainly needed and appreciated by 
at least those that watch the games.
Dick Leland
CFP Charity
Dear Editor,
For the past few years CFP and individual 
fraternities have been generously donating their 
time and energies to local charitable institutions. 
This creates good will for not only fraternities 
(though they need it), but also for our school as 
well.
Last year and again this year a local Boys’ Club 
has been the object of many of these endeavors. 
Although this institution is doing very useful work 
as a youth center, and is supported by the Com­
munity Chest, it is possible that a better choice of 
an institution might be made. It is not this spe­
cific institution that I question, but the type. This 
boys’ club, for example boasts a membership of
Inquiring Reporter—
Leaders And Apathy
By Sally Day
There has been much discussion in past years 
concerning student apathy. It seems that everyone 
has ideas on the situation, but nothing }iad been 
done until two weeks ago, when the leadership 
conference was held. This week we asked students 
for their ideas on how to lessen student apathy and 
what they thought of the leadership conference. 
Here are seme of their ideas.
Neil Bernstein, Sophomore, Dramatics—I think 
that the leadership conference is too vague—some­
thing more definite should be done. For one thing, 
the Student Council is depending too much on the 
honoraries. It should take on more work that has 
been formerly given to the honoraries. Another way 
to lessen student apathy would be to encourage the 
commuters to take part in more activities.
Dot Chaffee, Sophomore P&D—The confer­
ence aroused a lot of desire and enthusiasm on 
the part of the participants to work toward more 
organized and purposeful groups. If the same at­
titude can be maintained at future meetings, a lot 
of progress will be made in getting organizations 
more active on campus.
John Bos, Junior Dramatips—I think that the 
leadership conference was a good idea. However, 
many dramats do not have the time to participate 
in as many activities as they would like. The in­
terest is there, but the time isn’t.
Joann Lacey, Sophomore General Studies—I did 
not attend the conference, but the people I saw 
going were quite enthused. At future conferences 
there should be a wide representation of the cam­
pus and enough people. I don’t think that there is 
a lack of school spirit—we only need to build on 
what we have. The freshmen have a lot of school 
spirit, and if we can get this game enthusiasm 
from the upper-classmen, student apathy will be 
lessened.
Dave Kratovil, Sophomore Chem. E.—I don’t 
think leadership conferences are the answer to the 
problem. They would help, but not enough to do 
any good. Because of the variety of activities on 
campus, the problem is up to the leaders them» 
selves.
Bob Goodrich, Sophomore Physics—One way to
lessen student apathy would be to have a complete 
re-emphasis in football. You could also work 
through the fraternities by making school spirit a 
part of pledge training. The actives could force 
the pledges to attend pep rallies, games, etc.
Jim Plugrge, Senior, Chemistry—Student apathy 
is among the disorganized groups, not the organized 
ones. There is also less school spirit in non-frater­
nity men. The school should do more to get Citcom 
and independents organized and interested through 
conferences, meetings, parties, etc. Fraternities 
could also work toward better pep rallies and other 
activities. One way to get the commuters more 
interested in activities would be to schedule more 
things during the 11:30 break on Tuesday.
Betty Dunlap, Senior, Home Ec.—It is hard for 
the students to be active in organizations and still 
keep up their studies. Leaders should take more 
interest in the individual members of their organ­
izations. Students must feel that they are needed 
in the clubs. If this need were satisfied there would 
be an increase in student activity.
Carolou Fidder, Sophomore, Secretarial—I think 
leadership conferences are a good idea, especially 
in organizations involving religious activities. In 
the Student Christian Federation, to which I be» 
longed, we tried to build up enthusiasm. The fac­
ulty and students were trying to correlate, but the 
feculty wasn’t “getting through” to the students. 
You can always improve leadership, no matter how 
good it is.
Diane Farrington, Senior, Chem. E.—Student- 
faculty relationships should be improved so that 
student activities can have the full co-operation and 
backing of the faculty. This would create a 
more friendly feeling between faculty and students 
and would strengthen the student organizations? I 
also think that the organizations themselves must 
work together in order to offer a variety of activi­
ties which are not held at conflicting times. This 
would strengthen each organization and increase 
student interest and participation.
over 700 boys from six to eighteen years. This 
fact, when present in the minds of The Greeks 
concerned, has a great capacity for dissipating the 
enthusiasm which would normally be generated 
for such 3n undertaking.
This is not a pleasant, but a true state of be­
ing. It is borne out by the fact that only about 
two-thirds of the fraternities backed the boys’ 
club with their midway booths last week. This 
was to have been a CFP enterprise, but it was far 
from unanimous. Perhaps this situation could be 
improved if better planning were instituted by the 
fraternities and CFP. It seems a pity that, if such 
projects are to be attempted, they can’t be con-' 
ducted at optimum efficiency.
Respectfully,
A Fraternity Man

---------------------------------------------------

Tuesday, October 11, 1955—CARNEGIE TARTAN—Page 5
Decisive Victory For Tech 
In Game With Johns Hopkins
By Jim Lacey i
| Carnegie Tech got back to its 
winning ways by whipping Johns 
Hopkins, 26-6 at the Blue Jay’s 
own field in Baltimore.
It was strange to see so small 
of a turnout at the game in a city 
where their pro team is leading 
its division and nearby Navy is 
undefeated and unscored upon. 
Another oddity about the game is 
that all persons are admitted to 
the field free, a freak in the 
f present day set up where the 
smallest colleges and high schools 
charge admission. Also there is no 
scramble for the 50 yard line seats 
because there are none on the 
Johns Hopkins Field. The bleach­
ers are so constructed that there 
are none from the -one 40 yard 
line to the other.
Tech completely dominated the 
early play, but couldn’t get a 
touchdown until Marshall Brown 
| got the Tartans a first down on 
the Jay’s 29 yard line. Eight plays 
later, John Tucci sneaked over 
from the one yard line. Roy De­
Vries conversion try missed and 
Tech took a 6-0 lead with them 
to the dressing room at half-time!
Tech got two quicky T.D.’s in 
the third period and coasted the 
rest of the way as both the Tar­
tans and Blue Jays garnered a 
Score in the last stanza. Big Frank 
§ Wengrzyn broke through to block 
a Jay punt early in the quarter. 
This led to Tech’s second score as 
Brown smashed over from the one. 
DeVries’ conversion was true to 
the mark. That upped the score to 
13-0. Later in the period Tech 
struck back . with a fifteen yard 
pass from Tucci to Larry Cassett 
for another marker. DeVries’ try 
was good.
Johns Hopkins struck back for 
r a consolation score in the final 
quarter that averted a shutout. 
John Steers capped the drive with 
a 12 yard end run. The try for the 
extra point was wide..
Freshman reserve quarterback
Bill Naylor sneaked over for 
Tech’s final score on the final play 
of the game. DeVries ’ try for point 
was wide.
Dr. Eddie Baker started an al­
most all freshman and sophomore 
line. Ed Karcher was the only 
senior. Going from one end to the 
other the lineup read: Dave Love,
Dick Chalupa, Karcher, John 
Kohan, Jerry Stalnacker, Earl 
Benner, and Cassett.
Next week the Scots again are 
away. This time they travel to 
Carlisle, Pennsylvania, to meet the 
Dickinson Red Devils coached by 
Burnton Piety. It is the first meet­
ing between Tech and Dickinson.
Team
TARTAN FOOTBALL CONTEST
For Games on October 15, 1955 
Score TeamScore
Carnegie Tech
Army
Auburn
Bucknell
California
Duke
Illinois
Iowa State
Purdue
Michigan
Navy
Notre Dame 
Pittsburgh 
Princeton 
West Virginia
NAME
Dickinson ,
Syracuse 
Georgia Tech 
Temple 
Oregon 
Ohio State 
Minnesota 
Missouri 
Iowa
Northwestern 
Penn State 
Michigan State 
Nebraska 
Colgate 
Wm. & Mary
. DEPT............... CLASS
PITTSBURGH ADDRESS
A 1956 Thistle yearbook will be awarded to the winner of the 
TARTAN’S weekly football contest.
Read the contest rules below and fill in and deposit this coupon 
in the intra-school mail box, addressed to the TARTAN. All coupons 
must be entered by midnight Friday to be eligible for the following 
day’s games.
Contest Rules
1. Only CIT students will be eligible to compete.2. Each contestant will predict not only the winner, but also the final score 
of the game. Entries will be judged on the number of correct decisions; in case 
Of ties, entries will be judged on the correctness of the scores.
3. A11 entries must be sent to the Tartan through intra-school mail by midnight 
Friday of the contest week to be eligible for consideration.
4. Each student may submit only one entry. If more than one entry is sub­
mitted by a student, he or she will be disqualified.
5. Entries will be judged by the Tartan sports staff and the winners will be 
announced in the issue following the contest. Decision of the judges is final.
6. Winner of each week's contest will receive a 1956 Thistle subscription, re­
deemable at the time of publication.
Weaver of Geneva wins the meet with Bill Jackson of Geneva 
placing second.* * * * * * 
Geneva Easily Wins 
Cross Country Meet
By Dick Swaney
Coach Bob Carman’s erratic cross-country charges, who only one 
week ago appeared to be heading towards an unblemished season, 
took one on the chin as the Harriers from Geneva handed them 
their worst defeat in six seasons. Homer Weaver proved equal to 
the day as he and teammate Bill4-----------------------------------------------------
Jackson easily outdistanced Bill 
and Larry Bryant.
Big trouble came for Tech when 
Bill Whitman, freshman product 
of Central Catholic, suffered smart 
pains and stomach cramps before 
the race wras half over. Then 
Captain Jim Flynn lost footing and 
fell into a small trench to add 
injury to insult. This is not to 
discredit the Harriers from Gen­
eva, who performed brilliantly as 
a well organized single unit team. 
The Harriers are a sure bet for 
the Tri-State championship on 
November 4 unless Coach Carman 
can whip his team into a steady, 
hard running unit.
On Saturday afternoon, both 
Tech and Geneva were on hand to 
watch Wes Santee, the fabulous
won the race and set a new course 
record, he said that Tech’s course 
was the toughest and best he had 
ever been on.
Today, the Tartans travel to 
Morgantown, W. Va., to battle the 
Mountaineers, last year's Southern 
Conference Champions. Last sea­
son, Tech handed West Virginia 
one of its two defeats, the other 
coming at the hands of powerful 
Geneva. The Mountaineers are 
revenge minded but the boys in 
Plaid are bound to be up after the 
disappointing performance with 
Geneva.
Friday marks another home 
meet with Slippery Rock College, 
Tech’s arch rival. This will doubt­
less be a grudge meet featuring 
Kansas Cow'boy, race against Arnie thrills and excitement for the few 
Sowell of Pitt. After Santee had ’ fans who follow this sport.
When you’ve worked pretty late 
And the issue looks great...
Why not celebrate! Have a CAMEL I
(Me pfeaöine »
It's a psychological fact; Pleasure helps 
your disposition. If you're a smoker, re­
member — more people get more pure 
pleasure from Camels than from any 
other cigarette!
No other cigarette is so 
rich-tasting, yet so mild!

---------------------------------------------------

Page 6—CARNEGIE TARTAN—Tuesday, October 11, 1955
~ARROW-
CASUAL WEAR
first in fashion
Special To Students And Faculty
Time, Life and Sports Illustrated
Time—$3.00 a year, less than a week. (Students Only) 
Life—$4.00 a year, less than 8^ a week.
Sports Illustrated—$4.00 a year, less than a week.
Vic Shiry Box 246
Carnegie Institute of Tecnhology
I am enclosing $....,............ for a years subscriptions to
I ? Time, O Life, . •
? Sports Illustrated.
Dells, Kappa Sigs, DU’s 
Are League Leaders
6 Teams Unbeaten*
With the close of the second 
full week of play in intramural 
touch football, the top powers in 
each of the three leagues are be­
ginning to show their true form. 
Last week’s contestants had more 
than their usual trouble with the 
“weatherman.” After “his” at­
tempt to stop Wednesday’s con­
tests failed, “he” came back with 
a bigger and better cloudburst Fri­
day evening in an . a’ttempt to 
drown any players and fans who 
didn’t have sense enough to head 
for shelter. The three games, each 
of which had progressed to the 
third quarter, had to be called off 
because none of the players had 
their swimming suits. It is now 
left up to the Intramural Board 
to decide whether the contests will 
be replayed, and if so, whether 
they will be started over from the 
beginning or from half time.
Tartan League
In the Tartan League, which 
seems to be shaping up as the 
toughest of the three leagues, the 
big news of the week was DTD’s 
upset victory over the favored 
ATO six in a high scoring 30-25 
victory. The Delt’s tricky offense 
led by Laughery and Wilton was 
the first to outplay ATO’s strong 
defense. The defensive standout of 
the game was the Delt’s Dicken­
son. Time after time he broke 
through the ATO line to break 
up plays.
Another Tartan League upset 
was the Obelisks’ 14-6 victory over 
Newman. With their loss went 
most of Newman’s title hopes. In 
the other contests ATO (A) rolled 
over TDP 39-0 and TX beat TDP 
33-13. The undefeated Delts are 
now on top in the Tartan League 
with once beaten PKA, TX, and 
ATO breathing down the Delt’s 
necks.
Kiltie League
Kappa Sig appears to have pass­
ed their toughest obstacle in beat­
ing Sigma Nu last week 21-13 and 
is expected to have clear sailing 
the rest of the season. The Kappa 
Sig team lead by Mike Pascarella 
would have won easily except that 
one Sigma Nu end named Zimmer­
man seemed to have a magnet in 
his fingertips. He kept his team in 
the game with his spectacular 
catches of Caffee’s passes.
In other games the Grads who 
are still undefeated, but who don’t 
appear too powerful, beat BTP 11- 
6, Citcom won over EEME by for­
feit. KS beat BTP 51-7.
Skibo League
In the Skibo League, the three 
top teams easily won their last
Kappa Sig returns a Sigma Nu kick in Tuesday’s game.
week’s contests to remain unde­
feated. PK(A), led by Hvizdos to 
McLehinny pass combination, 
romped over the Static Charges 
54-3. SAE looked very impressive 
as they defeated BSR 35-9, and 
DU continued their winning ways 
by beating BSR and ASCE by 
scores of 21-15 and 16-9 respec­
tively. This week should separate 
the men from the boys in this 
league with PK(A) meeting DU 
on Monday evening and SAE on 
Friday.
Standing of clubs:
Tartan League
DTD .......................................... 3-0
ATO(A) .................................. 2-1
PKA......................................... 1-1
TX ............................................. 1-1
Obelisks .......................... 1-1
Newman ................................... 1-2
TDP ........................................... 0-3
Skibo League
DU ............................................. 3-0
SAE ........................................... 2-0
PK(A) .................................... 2-0
BSR ........................................... 1-2
Static Charges . * .............. 0-2
ATO(B) .................................. 0-2
ASCE........................................ 0-2
Kiltie League
KS ............................................ 3-0
Grads ...................................... 2-0
SN ............................................. 2-1
BTP .......................................... 1-2
Citcom ...................................... 1-2
PK(B) ................................... 0-2
EEME ............ 0-2
Contest Won By 
Ed Rosenblum
This week’s football contest 
winner, Ed Rosenblum, named 
correctly all the winning teams. 
However, this feat was not good 
enough in itself. Another contest­
ant also named all the winners. 
Luckily for Ed, a senior in printing 
management, his scores were 
closer than those of his rival.
The certificate for a 1956 Thistle 
will be presented to Ed by the 
Tartan sports editor as soon as 
arrangements are finished.
Council Ruling
In order to accommodate or­
ganizations which desire im­
mediate approval of their pur­
chase orders, Student Council 
has ruled that if the purchase 
orders are enclosed in the pur­
chase order box in the Dean’s 
office by 12:05 p.m. of any 
weekday, excepting Saturday, 
approval will be granted by 
4:30 of the same day.
"BUT-IUHENI SAiDTLAY BALL WITH METONITE-I HAD SOMETHING ELS£ IN fAIND*
IM Volleyball
The co - recreational volleyball 
teams have been set up and play 
will begin Tuesday, October 11. 
There will be four games played 
each Tuesday and Thursday with 
the games beginning promptly at 
7:30 p.m. *
The teams have been divided up 
into two leagues with the winner 
and runner-up in one league com­
peting in the play-offs against the 
winner and runner-up in the other 
league.
League I
1. KKG-DU
2. Commuters-SAE
3. Independents-DTD
4. Dorm A-Obelisks
5. KAT-BSR
League II
6. Chi Omega-PK
7. DDD-BTP 
'8. DG-PKA
9. Dorm B-ATO 
Schedule:
TeamsCourt
Oct.vs 21
vs 42
vs 73
vs 94
Oct.vs 33
vs 51
vs 82
Oct.vs 52
vs 41
vs 93
Oct.vs 33
vs 52
vs 91
Oct.vs 43
vs 52
vs 81
BEAUTIFUL DRY CLEANING
Plain—
Skirts, Sweaters, 
Trousers, Sport Coats, 
Blouses
Includes—
STA NU FINISHING
(as advertised in Life)
At ¡Vo Extra Cost!
NO EXTRA CHARGE For 1-Hour Service
AMERICAN FOOTERS • Cleaners-Dyers
5864 FORBES ST., Below Shady Ave.
Little Man On Campusby Bibler
No guesswork here, Arrow*s new 
button-down shirt cops the style lead on 
campus with its soft roll collar, full- 
length back pleat, back-collar 
button—details you’d expect from 
custom shirtmakers! Now 
available in authentic plaids and 
tattersall checks, $6.95 up.
Combine it with Arrow’s tapered 
slacks in chino, $5.95 
—for the new casual look.
Pepsi-C»l* Metropolitan Bottling C#., Pittsburgh 10, Pa.

---------------------------------------------------

Tuesday, October 11, 1955—CARNEGIE TARTAN—Page 7
CouncilES Council Held 
Enjoyable Picnic 
At Sprang’s F arm
Saturday, October 1, 1955, Stu­
dent Council held a picnic at 
Spang’s Farm for all workers for 
Council. All who attended had an 
enjoyable day of horseshoe pitch­
ing, badminton,- shuffleboard, and 
volley ball and of course lots of 
refreshments.
Those who did not attend miss­
ed a lot of fun seeing^the “graceful 
motions” and “sore muscles” of 
all the sports enthusiasts.
Ahyone interested in helping 
with decorations or in any way 
for the dances and parties held by 
Student Council is invited to sub­
mit his name to any member of 
Student Council or to the Plaid 
Editor. Extra-curricular activities 
enable the student to get better 
acquainted with his schoolmates 
and make school life more enjoy­
able.
Banquet
The Insignia Award Ban­
quet will be held Saturday, 
Oct. 15, at 6:30 p.m. in the 
Union.
LContinued from page 1 ] 
campus should be eliminated. The 
issue was referred to a committee 
for further investigation.
The conduct of the students at 
the Lafayette-Tech football game 
was brought to the attention ol 
Student Council, since they are in 
charge of student activities. P 
appears that two large mega­
phones of considerable value were 
taken by two of the fraternities. 
This matter was turned over to 
CFP, which will try to restore 
them.
The constitutions of the Radio 
and Industrial Management clubs 
have been accepted and are avail­
able for inspection all this week 
in the office of the Dean of Men.
This page edited by Evening School Students of the Carnegie Institute of Technology
Editor .......................................................................................... Dolores Neff
Reporters...............John Van Holt, Jr., Matt Bertovich, Albert Duzy,
Emily Muhic, Chuck Labee
I had the toughest time of my 
life. First, I got angina pectoris 
and then arteriosclerosis. Just as 
I was recovering from these, I 
got tuberclosis, double pneumonia 
and phthisis. Then they gave me 
hypodermics. Appendicitis was 
followed by tonsilectomy. These 
gave way to aphosia and hyper- 
tropiccerrhosis. I completely lost 
my memory for a while. I know I 
had diabetes and acute indigestion, 
besides gastritis, rheumatism, lum­
bago and neuritis. I don’t know 
how I pulled through it. It was the 
hardest spelling test I’ve ever had.
Council Square Dance 
In Only Three Weeks
The Pink Door
SCHOOL OF MODELING and CHARM
Modeling - Make Up - Good 
Grooming - Figure Control
10 Week Course Only $15.00 
3710 Forbes St., Pittsburgh 13, Pa. MU
Every Tuesday at 12:30 
E. H. 1112 
All Students and Faculty 
Welcome
SPONSORED BYAmerican Society of Mechanical 
Engineers and Society of Auto­
motive Engineers in Conjunc­tion with AIEE & AICHE
LUCKY DR00DLES! LUCKY DR00DLES!YEA!
ES Council 
Has Vacancies
WHAT’S
THIS?
There are several vacancies to 
be filled this year on Student 
Council, which functions primar­
ily to promote social life on 
campus and to investigate any of 
the problems that arise among 
evening students.
Anyone desiring to become a 
member please contact either Matt 
Bertovich, President of Student 
Council, School Box 256 or your 
Plaid Editor, School Box 256.
For solution, se« 
paragraph below.
DEATH OF ACHILLES
Johanna Hanson Ross Radcliffe
A FLIGHT OF IMAGINATION prompted the Droodle 
above—it’s titled: Flying saucer with Lucky-smoking 
crew. But it’s a down-to-earth fact that Luckies taste 
better than any other cigarettes—and for down-to- 
earth reasons. First of all, Lucky Strike means fine 
tobacco. Then, that light, mild tobacco is toasted to 
taste even better . . . cleaner, fresher, smoother. So, 
“Glurg shrdlu!” (In saucer language, that means, 
“For taste that’s out of this world, light up a Lucky!”)
DROODLES, Copyright 1953 by Roger Prio»
Sorority
Phi Gamma Pi will hold a 
tea for prospective pledges 
Sunday, Oct. 16, at 2:00 p.m. 
All members are asked to be 
present.
FAIRY GODMOTHERS' 
CONVENTION
Kenneth Bishop Duke
COLLEGE 
SMOKERS 
PREFER ^ 
LUCKIES I
WILBUR JUST WOKE UP TO 
THE FACT THAT HES IN CLASS!
K[[P AlCRT FOR A 
BITTER POINT AVtRACt!
Don’t let that “drowsy feel­
ing” cramp your style in class 
... or when you’re "hitting 
the books”. Take a NoDoz 
Awakener! In a few minutes, 
you’ll be your normal best... 
wide awake . . . alert! Youf 
doctor will tell you—NoDoz 
Awakeners are safe as coffee. 
Keep a pack handy!
Luckies lead all 
other brands, regu­
lar or king size, 
among 36,075 
college students 
questioned coast to 
coast. The number- 
one reason: Luckies 
taste better.
TOUPEE FOR MONK
Jean Drum U. of California
5 TABLETS, 35c
“PMBeta" pack 
53 tablets 
In lundy tin 
*9c m
NOQOZ
AWAKENERS
1LUCKIES TASTE BETTER-C/eane/; Fresher, Smoother!
<J^nwu£<ivn dübajcetdurnyxanÿ America’s leading manufacturer of cigarettes©A. I Co. PRODUCT or

---------------------------------------------------

Scot—
[Continued from page 2J 
tending Carnegie Tech to learn 
some useful trade.
There will be four Scots this 
year, and they will be thicker than _ 
before. The first appears Novem­
ber 2. A features board of five 
people with radically different 
tastes is choosing the material. We 
can’t say what we’d like, because 
what we are really looking for is 
new ideas ... so' get one of your 
own, and if you’ve written any­
thing lately, from a letter to 
mother to a paper on earthworms 
that you would like to see in print, 
then wrap it up, put your name 
and Scot on it, and leave it in the 
Scot box in AH. or at the desk in ¦ 
More wood.
FOR COMPLETE 
HARDWARE, PAINT, 
and GIFT SELECTIONS 
• Try Us First •
OAKLAND HARDWARE
3606 Forbes St. - MA 1-0923
Ì
Page 8—CARNEGIE TARTAN—Tuesda, October 11, 1955
Co
Dr. D. F. Miner 
Is Co-Eclitor 
Of New Handbook
Dr. Douglas F. Miner, Director 
of Student Personnel and Welfare 
here at Tech, is co-editor of a 
new type Handbook of Engineer­
ing materials, just published by 
John Wiley and Sons.
The new handbook was pre­
pared by a staff of 52 specialists 
and is the first book of its kind, 
embodying a new concept for the 
rel'erence field. “Old line materials 
handbooks.” say the publishers, 
“are limited to the supposed needs 
of a single specialty.” and a whole 
shelf of them are needed for ref­
erence data if more than one field 
is to be investigated. The new 
Handbook of Engineering Mate­
rials, co-edited by Dr. Miner and 
John B. Seastone of Olin Mathie- 
son Company “offers a single 
source of authentic, reliable in­
formation on the materials of 
manufacturing and construction in 
all branches of engineering.”
Three Tech Professors
The book, which took eight 
years to compile, was first conceiv­
ed when Dr. Miner was manager 
of the Materials and Process Engi­
neering Department at Westing- 
house.
In addition to Dr. Miner, two 
other Tech professors have con- ; 
tributed to the book. Dr. J. W. j 
Graham, newly appointed Dean of j 
Students and former dean- in the \ 
College of Engineering and j 
Science, compiled the section on ' 
cementing materials and concrete, j 
and Professor F. N. Rhines of the 
metallurgy department contri­
buted the section on aluminum.
Tau Beta Pi
[Continued from page 1] 
least one hour each week, the 
schedules being posted in the main 
lobbies of Administration Hall, 
Engineering Hall, and Machinery 
Hall, and published in the Tartan. 
They will begin the week of Octo­
ber 31. In order to attend a class, 
a student needs only to be in the 
right room at the appointed time. 
There is no registration or other 
notification required. The tutoring 
is, as mentioned above, absolutely 
free of charge.
In addition to the regular tutor­
ing schedule, Tau Beta Pi is pre­
senting a series of two lectures on 
the use of the slide rule. These will 
take place on Oct. 19 and Oct. 26 
Sat 4:30, in Room 2210 EH, and 
will also be publicized on bulletin 
boards. The first will cover the ele­
mentary theory and use of the 
basic scales; the second will be 
concerned with the special trig­
onometric and log-log scales.
CFP
[Continued from page 1] 
ing. A motion of last year making 
each house liable for its own 
pledges was reread. The few set­
tlements necessary were conclud­
ed amiably between the houses 
concerncd. Joseph Redding was 
elected CFP representative to 
Student Council for the coming 
year.
[Continued from page i] 
major from Youngstown, Ohio, 
who in high school was Sweet­
heart Ball Queen candidate and 
busied herself designing sets for 
drama productions and serving as 
art editor of the newspaper. This 
past summer she was a dentist’s 
receptionist.
Pittsburgh Chamber of Com­
merce’s All-Starlet Pat Mueller of 
Aspinwall is also a candidate for 
Homecoming Queen. Interested in 
art work, Pat taught art funda­
mentals to grade school children 
this past year and also sang with 
the Cavelettes, a school singing 
group. This summer she was em­
ployed as a sales girl and model 
by Kaufmanr.V and is continuing 
her work there during the school 
year. Pat is a lothing and textile 
major.
Carolyn Hyatt, a secretarial ma­
jor from Schenectady^ New York, 
was vice president of her class in 
high school and very active in the 
Athletic Association. She spent the 
past summer as a clerk and cash­
ier for a department store.
Judy Thomas, who reigned as 
May Queen her senior year, is a 
queen candidate from Dayton, 
Ohio. Especially talented in public 
speaking, Judy was active in the 
Council on World Affairs for which 
she was a member of the travel­
ling speakers’ bureau.-Also in con­
nection with the CWA, Judy did 
a weekly round-table television 
show over WHIO-TV in Dayton.
Community Forum Schedule
All meetings will be held in Room 100 Porter Hall from 7:00 to 
8:00 p.m., with a discussion period following. All members of the 
Tech community and their guests are invited.
Program for 1955-56
Oct. 18—Professor Paul L. Ward
Department of History
Nov. 15—Professor W. H. E. 
Johnson 
Psychology Department 
Dec. 13—Dean Norman L. Rice
College of Fine Arts 
Jan. 10—Dean Geo. Leland Bach 
School of IA 
Feb. 21—Dean R. Richai’d
Teare, Jr.
College of Engineering 
and Science 
March 20—Professor Norman 
H. Dawes 
Department of History 
April 17—Professor Herbert 
A. Simon 
IM Department 
May 15—Professor Emerson 
M. Pugh 
Department of Physics
“The Irrationality of the 
Chinese Communists:
Some Observations from 
Personal Experience.” 
“Soviet-American Relations: 
Past, Present and Future.”
/“The Indispensable 
Ingredient.”
“The Economic Outlook: Boom 
or Depression Ahead?”
“Problems and Trends in 
Engineering Education.”
“The Preservation of Our 
Civil Liberties.”
“The American Political 
’ Process.”
“Some Impacts of Science and 
Technology on Society.”
She was news editor of her school 
paper and was named outstanding 
senior. This past summer Judy was 
a secretary and model. She is a 
student in the painting and design 
department.
Denise Getsie, another of the 
seven candidates, spent much of
her last three years dancing. In 
1953 she worked with the Inter­
national Ballet Company and spent 
the last summer dancing with four 
other girls at a supper club. Den­
ise is from Wilmerding and is a 
foods and nutrition major here at 
Tech.
Forum
[Continued from page 1 ] 
gram is thoroughly in keeping 
with AAUP’s prospectus of en­
couraging and improving the dis­
semination of knowledge.
CIT Has Distinguished Faculty
One point which Dr. Piel made 
will strike many students as quite 
true. She noted that, because of 
departmentalization and schedul­
ing, it is inevitable that students 
will miss exposure to many dis­
tinguished members of the Tech 
faculty, even after four years on 
campus. Furthermore, she added 
that the faculty members, too, only 
rarely have an opportunity to hear 
their colleagues speak on topics in 
which they have expert status. A 
Forum such as this should help to 
rectify this situation by giving us 
a more immediate awareness of 
the stimulating people in our 
midst, and some of the knowledge 
they have to give.
If the Forum is successful in 
drawing an interested audienci 
this year. Dr. Piel said it will bt 
continued in succeeding years by 
AAUP. She indicated that faculty 
response has been most heartening 
and that further topics of interest 
can be covered by equally able 
faculty members, if interest is 
shown in the form of encouraging 
turnouts.
YOUR BIG RED LETTER DAY
tfe ^ icAattoe to
1. SUPERIOR FILTER Only L&M gives you 
the superior filtration of the Miracle Tip, the 
purest tip that ever touched your lips. It’s white 
... all white .«. pure white!
2. SUPERIOR TASTE L&M’s superior taste 
comes from superior tobaccos — especially 
selected for filter smoking. Tobaccos that are 
richer, tastier... and light and mild.
