BASKET BALL DANCE 
UNION 
TONIGHT $1.25
PITT WEDNESDAY
BASKET BALL 
W. VA. FRIDAY
VOL. XXII NO. 22CARNEGIE INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY. PITTSBURGH, PA.TUESDAY, FEBRUARY 21, 1928
PLAID FLOORMEN 
GIVE GENEVA AND 
IRISH CLOSE RUN
BUREAU URGES SENIORS
TO RESPOND FOR INTERVIEWS
White, Brown, Hitchcock 
and Bond Star in Tightest 
Contests of the Season
TOMORROW NITE PITT 
FRIDAY W. VIRGINIA
W. Va. on Friday and W. & J. 
Next Week, Last Chances 
for Plaid Victories.
Another Wednesday, another Friday 
—two more defeats. It was the Notre 
Dame second string which lined up 
' against the Plaid quint. The Irish 
were wise, no use opening their bag 
of tricks while Doc Carlson’s Panthers 
¦were lined up on one side taking it 
all in.
The Geneva game was rather sad; 
the Tartans should have chalked up 
their first victory. Drawing first 
blood they piled up a good lead only 
to have the Coventers even it up and 
lead by one point - at the half time. 
Unlike their usual form the Skibos 
slumped the second 20-minute period 
and Geneva tallied 16 points to Car­
negie’s 11, more than enough to clinch 
the game.
Captain White played his usual 
spectacular game for the Tartans; be­
sides guarding to the best of his abil­
ity he succeeded in forcing through 
the Coventer’s defence and looping’ in 
five baskets. Brown was spectacular 
in his offense, sinking four field goals, 
and playing an all around, hard, ag­
gressive game. Hitchcock at guard 
and Bond at center, handicapped with 
a couple of bum legs, both played a 
1 creditable game. The rest of the quint 
were more or less so-so; perhaps a 
little more so-so as their passing was 
decidedly off and their defense both 
ragged, and sDotty.
Tartans Have Edge.
“It "vvas—a •contest- of the first -wator- 
to watch; the Skibo tossers seemed 
to have the edge but those two for­
wards, Rubenstein and Frledmen 
were just a little too much./ The Tar­
tans put up a desperate fight in the 
second period, often bringing the 
spectators to their feet with enthu­
siasm, and the outcome of the old ball 
game was rather doubtful, up to tho 
last three minutes.
The Notre Dame mixup was rather 
comic; the first stringers warmed the 
bench while the subs engaged • the 
Tartans. It was evident that they 
were content to win by any score; 
Pitt was their big game and all the 
brawn and brain was being held in 
reserve for it.
As usual the Tartans got away with 
first blood when Crum sank three 
straight fouls and High added an­
other, which gave the Plaid a 4-0 lead 
right off the bat. Holding this ad­
vantage for several minutes the Notre 
Dame fans began to appear a little 
•worried, but Newbold and Bray soon 
(Continued on Page Six)
All seniors are requested to pay at­
tention to the bulletin boards as per­
sonal notices regarding interviews 
are placed there from' time to time. 
It is essential» that a very high degree 
of co-operation be maintained between 
the seniors and the Bureau of Recom­
mendations during this interviewing 
period. Seniors who would like to be 
interviewed by representatives of the 
various firms whose notices are post­
ed on the bulletin boards should imme­
diately upon reading these notices, 
register with Mr. B. J. Kristof in the 
Student Recommendation Bureau. Up 
to this time there has been very little 
response to the notices posted on the 
bulletin boards. Seniors should read 
the list of announcements regarding 
interviews with representatives of 
various firms coming to the Carnegie 
Institute of Technology.
Itchy Actress Makes Debut in Play 
and Considers Acting “A Dog's Life”
Glee Club Prepared 
For Intercollegiate 
. Contest Friday Nite
Club is Now on Trip to Erie, 
Pa. and Westfield, N. Y. to 
Return Tomorrow Night
FINAL ARRANGEMENTS 
FOR WOMEN’S BALL MADE
With the date of the Women’s 
Senior Ball only a little more than 
three weeks away, the committees in 
charge of the dance are making their 
final plans. Betty Hayes and Evelyn 
Offut who are responsible for choos­
ing the music-makers for the festivity, 
have announced the selection of Peck 
Mill’s Orchestra as the one most likely 
to play at the Senior Ball. This or­
chestra needs no introduction to Pitts­
burghers, who have long considered 
it one of the peppiest and most attrac­
tive of orchestras to supply the music 
at local affairs.
Further evidence of the proximity 
of the night of the ba-11 is furnished 
by the arrival of the charming dance 
programs. If the0 beauty of these 
dainty programs is typical of the deco­
rations and arrangements for the Ball, 
there is not doubt that the dance will 
be unanimously pronounced a great 
success.
The preliminary sale of tickets is 
now going on in the various depart­
ments of Margaret Morrison and Fine 
Arts. Each senior girl is expected to 
pay this first installment, amounting 
to $2, promptly to the girl who is sell­
ing tickets in her department. The 
publicity committee has made sure 
that no one forgets this important 
matter by displaying colorful posters 
on the bulletin .boards these gayly 
painted placards are of great service 
in reminding seniors that the Ball will 
be given on March 9 in the ballroom 
of the William Penn Hotel and that 
this week is the proper time to pay 
the first part of the money due.
Plans for the Inter-Collegiate Glee 
Club Cohtest of Pennsylvania have 
been practically completed by the 
committee in charge: The contest
is scheduled for Friday evening, 
February 27, in Carnegie Music Hall. 
Five schools have entered the com­
petition: Allegheny, Juniata, Penn 
Stated Bucknell and Carnegie.
Each club is required to sing three 
songs, one of which must be sung by 
all the clubs, one choice song, and one 
college song. The song required by 
the committee for all the clubs is 
“Broken Melody” by Sibelius. Carne­
gie’s choice song is "Finnish Lullaby” 
by Palmgren, and the college song 
selected is “Dear Old Tech.”
The Carnegie Glee Club has been 
practicing faithfully for the past two 
weeks and will make every effort to 
win the contest this year. A trip to 
New York with honor of singing in 
the final competition, and a silver 
loving cup are the prizes which await 
the winning club.
Walter J. Poyntz. student director, 
will conduct the club at the contest. 
Tickets can be secured at the Y. M.
C. A. office.
At present, tire Glee Club is on a 
concert trip which includes appear­
ances in Erie, Pa., and in Westfield, 
N. Y. The club left Pittsburgh yes­
terday morning and sang in Erie last 
night. Tommorow evening they will 
sing in Westfield and will return to 
Pittsburgh Wednesday.
This is the second trip of the sea­
son for the club, and it will serve not 
only as a pleasure trip, but will also 
aid in getting the men ready for the 
Intercollegiate Contest Friday night.
The club lias several engagements 
pending the Home Concert which will 
be held Friday evening, March 23, in 
Carnegie Music Hall.
“Anybody who says the stage is a 
dog’s life is all wet—it’s even worse 
than that.” 'Shell was the verdict of 
Lola Loganberry after her debut in 
“O, Imogene” last week.
It was during an entre act when 
the writer interviewed her. She was 
reclining amidst a deluge of silk pil­
lows on a chaise lounge and it was 
not until she had finished a straw­
berry bonbon that the writer could 
get her to talk about her recent spec­
tacular success.
"Have one,” she said, proffering me 
the box of bonbons. Lola smiled, dis­
closing small white pearly teeth; her 
eyes were sparkling brilliantly—in 
fact, she was as beautiful as any wom­
an of her kind.
"And what do you think of the the­
ater,” I asked. "It has always been 
one of my life long ambitions to act 
on the stage,” mused Lola, “but like 
all unfortunate stage struck girls I 
didn’t think that I would ever have a 
ghost of a chance on account of my 
mother. It so happened that she 
caught a cold at the dog show a few 
weeks ago and they had to send her 
to the hospital, so I skipped out and 
went down to the casting agency 
where Miss Dice saw me and told me 
that she wanted me to be in her 
show.” Lola coyly grinned and con­
tinued, “I was so scared the first time, 
I got out on that stage all cluttered up
' with furniture that I almost felt my 
j distemper coming back. First I got 
I cold feet. Then my nose started to 
get warm. My ears got numb. I was 
! shaking all over and can you believe 
l it, even my tail went*, cold—actually 
| went dead. I didn’t have a bit of con- 
I trol over it and you know,” sighed 
I Lola, "when I get in that condition I 
I know there ,is something wrong.”
I -"Do you like the play?-’ I ventured 
j to ask, amusingly interested, while she 
flipped her tail- and said, "It does not 
give me enough to do. I get so itchy 
between these long waits.”
“0, exclaimed I,” "then does Miss 
I Lola suffer with hives?” "How’d you 
guess it?—Mother had ’em and grand­
mother had ’em, in fact, I guess they 
all have had ’em. I bathe every dayv 
but still would you believe it they 
bother me more than ever.” “How 
distressing,” I replied in a consoling 
way, but she said, “I am well repaid 
for it because these people are so kind 
to me here. "Have a bonbon,” she 
said, shoving them to me. “These 
I dramats all treat me like I was the 
Queen of Sheba. You know I have al­
ways admired that woman. She won 
the Blue Ribbon last year. She’s to 
be admired for she’s had several of 
the healthiest litters in Pennsylvania.” 
j Just then the maid came in with a 
telegram. Lola tore it open.
The secret was out. Lola’s fiance 
I was Rin Tin Tin.
THISTLE BUSINESS STAFF
TO HOLD MEETING TODAY
All the salesmen and saleswomen 
of the Thistle are requested to attend 
an important meeting to be held in 
the Publications office, Industries 
room 12, at 12:30 sharp Tuesday. Be 
prepared to give a full report concern­
ing the number of books sold so U3 
to have a set number as to notify the 
printer. Complete reports should be 
given concerning the amount of ad­
vertisements solicited. This meeting 
is very important and all concerned 
are requested to attend.
At this meeting arrangements and 
plans as well as the policy ‘to be fol­
lowed in the next sales will be dis­
cussed. A different policy will be fol­
lowed this year than has been fol­
lowed in previous years. In order to 
accomplish this with the greatest suc­
cess, co-operation on the .part of tho 
sales staff will be greatly appreciated. 
All concerned are requested to co-op­
erate as well as attend this meeting.
Final Basketball 
Dance Held Tonight
Befitting Climax to Successful 
Revival of Old Tradition 
Eve. Pitt-Camegie Game
STUDENT COUNCIL PASSES .THISTLE PHOTOGRAPHER 
ON PRATT,SEIBERT,CARSON' TO COMPLETE SITTINGS
Assistant Chairmen for Campus 
Week Named at Last Stu­
dent Council Meeting.
Inspection Trips Taken 
By Industries Students
A number of inspection trips have 
been made by the members of the 
class of service management, • to the 
various automobile service stations of 
the city. On the Thursday before last, 
February 9, this class visited the 
Studebaker Service Station on Baum 
boulevard. A complete inspection was 
made under the direction of Mr. Foust, 
Service Manager and Mr. Murphy, 
Service Foreman. On last Thursday, 
February 16, the members of this class 
made another inspection trip to the 
Equitable Automobile Company, a 
subsidiary of the Philadelphia Com­
pany. The station was inspected un­
der the direction of Mr. Gibson of tho 
Equitable Automobile Company.
The two trips were of a very in­
structive nature closely relating to the 
problems studied in school. The in­
spection was, in the main 'part, a 
demonstration of a direct type of au­
tomobile service station and of a serv­
ice shop's handling of the automobile 
fleet of a large corporation.
TRI-PUBLICATIONS STAFF
TO HOLD MEETING
There .will be a meeting of the Tri- 
Publications Staff oil Thursday, Feb­
ruary 23, in the Tartan Office at one 
o’clock- Will all those on-the sales 
force please make it a point to be 
present and on time.
At the last meeting of t.lie Student 
Council, which was held last Tuesday, 
recommendations were approved for 
the three assistant chairmen of Cam­
pus Week.
W. J. Kunlcel, general chairman, 
named for his assistants “Spooks” 
Ssibert,' T. C. Pratt, and W. G. Carf- 
son, all of whom were approved by 
the Council. Dick Connelly will be 
treasurer and Majorie Snodgrass will 
fill the capacity of secretary.
The persons chosen to make this 
year’s brief Campus Week a*, success 
liav(5s been carefully picked and the 
success is assured.
Seibert is a member of Sigma Alpha 
Epsilon, social fraternity, Advertising 
Manager of the Tartan and Treasurer 
of the Junior Class in Industries. T.
C. Pratt, a Junior in Architecture, Is 
a member of Delta Upstton, social fra­
ternity, Scarab Architectural frater­
nity and was a member of Druids. 
W. G. Carson is a member of Sigma" 
Phi Epsilon, social fraternity and is 
treasurer of the Junior class in En­
gineering. Dick Connelly, treasurer 
of the Student Council, will also act 
as treasurer of Campus Week. He is 
a member of Pi Kappa, social frater­
nity and Scabbard and Blade Military 
Honorary. Majorie Snodgrass is a 
member of Mortar Board and Alpha 
Chi Alpha honoraries, chairman of the 
Scholarship Fund, and president of 
the Y. W. C. A.
The vano'us committees for the 
several divisions of Campus Week 
have not been officially named as yet 
but will be in a short time and the 
chairman assure us that no time will 
be lost in -formulating a diversified 
season of entertainment; one that 
will long be remembered.
All Organizations Concerned Are 
Requested To Co-operate 
With Photographer.
I The Thistle photographer has ar­
rived and has started on the program 
of taking Thistle pictures. In this 
schedule the organizations who have 
I not had their pictures taken are in­
cluded. They aro urged to co-operate 
i with the photographer as much as Is 
'...'ossible. The siiccess of this year's 
'book depends a great deal on this co- 
I operation.
In the event that any organization, 
that has not had its picture taken pre­
viously, is not scheduled in tlie fol- 
I lowing list, please communicate im- 
| mediately with Tom Brown, 5549 
Fprlies street. The schedule is as l’ol- 
j lows:
TUESDAY 
At Machinery Hall.
Industries Sophs, 12:30.
Science and IndustHes Freshmen 
(tentative), 12:40.
At Arts School.
Student Council, 1:00.'*
Sub. Senior Architects, 1:10.
Special Architects, 1:15.
Graphica, 1:30.
THURSDAY 
At Arts School.
Y. M. C. A., 12:30.
Thistle StafT, 12:40.
Tartan Staff, 12:50.
Alpha Chi Alpha, 1:00.
At Machinery Hall.
Mechanical Engineers, 1:10.
FRIDAY 
At Machinery Hall.
Citmas Club, 12:30.
Diazonium, 12:45.
Tau Beta Pi, 12:55.
Sunday afternoon the photographer 
will take the pictures of the remain­
ing fraternity groups.. Notices will 
be sent as to the time and place for 
the various groups. Co-operation on 
the part of • the fraternities is asked 
by the' photographer.
SENIOR PRINTERS PLAN 
NEW ‘BAGPIPE’ FOR 1928
The publication of the “Bagpipe” the 
annual book of the Seniors in the De­
partment of Printing is to be renewed 
after a lapse of several years. The 
Bagpipe deals with the activities of 
the Department of Printing through­
out the year and will contain articles 
by the directors of the various schools 
of the Institute and students, as well 
ad specimens of work done by the De­
partment of Printing and other items 
of interest to printers. The Seniors 
in the Department of Printing in con­
junction with the classes in English
III are publishing the next edition 
which will be out in June. The staff 
of the Bagpipe is as follows: Editor
in Chief, B. F. Carley; Managing Edi­
tor, H. Minners; News Editor, J. W. 
Jackson; Circulation Manager, A. 
Dodge; Business Manager, L. N. 
Smith; Alumni Editor, G. Feehrer; 
Layout and Design, B. Zachrisson. 
The composition is in charge of I. B. 
McLeod; binding work is in charge 
of D. M. Lewis; press work is in 
charge of F. Papenhzygen.
THETA TAU ENTERTAINS 
DISTINGUISHED VISITOR
On Thursday evening, February 16, 
the Carnegie Chapter of Theta Tau, 
professional engineering fraternity, 
I held a special meeting to welcome its 
! distinguished visitor, Mr. E. J. 
j Shrader. Mr. Shrader, Grand S^cribe 
' and past Grand Regent of Tlieta Tau 
National Fraternity was the principle 
speaker of the evening.
He was graduated from the Univer­
sity of Michigan in the Mining En­
gineering Class of 1905. Since his 
graduation he has spent a number 
| of years in Mexico, studying mines 
! and mine operation, and has also been 
quite active in mining operations in 
the west.
In his address Mr. Shrader empha­
sized particularly the- character build­
ing qualities of this professional fra­
ternity. The benefit, he said, could be 
readily recognized when among the 
many successful alumni were a large 
number of representative from Theta 
Tau.
. The chapter of Carnegie was finite 
honored in having for its guest so dis- 
| tinguished and accomplished a per- 
, (Continued og Page Four.)
The final basket ball dance of this 
season will 'be held this evening in 
the Union from 9 to ?. This dance 
will serve a doilble purpose, to com- 
momorate Washington’s birthday and 
as a rally for the Pltt-Carnegle game 
the following evening. The orchestra 
obtained for this event is Ralph,Kruck 
and his Tartans.
This dance is being held as a re­
sult of the great success of the two 
previous basket ball dances. The 
great spirit and attendance shown has 
brought encouragement to the com­
mittee in charge of bringing about 
this revival of the old tradition. Ralph 
Kruck’s orchestra has played a great 
number of times on the campus and 
has established itsell as one of tho 
leading campus orchestras. This 
dance will have a great spirited back­
ground and Indications show that this 
dance will be better a (.tended than tho 
two previous ones, If Indications 
mean anything, and most of them aro 
always with exacting results, this 
dance will hold a befitting climax to 
this rejuvenated tradition.
Since this dance Is on the ovonlng 
preceding tho Pltt-Carnegle game II. 
will give the Carnegie loyal support­
ers a chance to Inspiro their hopes 
•md spirits for the game. This game 
Is the finale for this season between 
these two bitter rivals. An upset at 
this time would make the - Carnegie 
"eason a success in Itself. It will bo 
done and Carnegie at this stage Is apt 
to do it. Never can tell what Dame 
Fortune has in store for us. A proper 
spirit will do miracles for a team; 
this recalls the great Notre Dame up­
set of a yoar ago. Not only will this 
dance be a finale for the basket ball 
dances of this season but a rousing 
chance for bringing up the "Old Car­
negie Spirit.”
This dance will be held this evening 
in the Union at 9:30. The price of 
admission will be the same as at all 
the basket ball dances, $1.25. The 
retaining of the old tradition of holding 
these dances in years to come will de­
pend on the success of this dance. The 
revival of this tradition has shown a 
great interest and its retention is pos­sible.
WOMEN’S PROM AT 
UNIVERSITY CLUB 
ON FRIDAY EVENING
Bob McGowan’s Orchestra 
Will Furnish Syncopation 
At This Traditional Event
STRICTLY MASCULINE 
FAVORS ARE PROMISED
University Club's Famous Chef 
To Serve Tasty Dinner To 
Carnegie Epicures.
Students to be Guests of 
Sixth Presbyterian Church
On Sunday evening, February 26, at 
8 o’clock the Sixth Presbyterian 
Church will be the host to all Carnegie 
students and members of the faculty. 
An attractive program is prepared. 
Judge Gray, one of Pittsburgh’s young­
est. and most able jurists will give the 
principle address; the Carnegie Glee 
Club has agreed to supply both the 
music for the service and the enter­
tainment afterward. After the short 
service and address by Judge Gray re­
freshments^ will be served and a “gef- 
fco-getlier’L held in the parish of the 
church. Dean Tarbell, Prof. Work 
"Howdy” Harpster and several other 
notable personages about school hf*ve 
agreed to be on hand and say a few 
words.
Young ladies from the church aro 
going to do the serving. An invita­
tion has been extended to all Carnegie 
students to bo on hand and a good 
showing Is required to show tho con­
gregation of the church that their ef­
forts in the school’s behalf are. justl- 
led. The church is located at the 
northwest rorner of Forbes and Mur­
ray avenues, just a ten-minute walk 
from the campus. Let’s go.
On Friday evening, February 24. at 
nine In the ballroom of the exclusive 
University Club the women of Mar­
garet Morrison and the College oi Fine 
Arts will hold their annual Junior 
Promenade. All plans for the affair 
have been completed according to the 
chairman of the committee in charge, 
Annabelle Turner, and the success of 
the traditional event is a promised 
surety.
Bob McGowan and his orchestra will 
provide the music. This was the 
group of dance music artists who 
helped to make last year’s Beaux 
Arts Ball such a tremendous success. 
They have also achieved an Immense 
popularity at Penn State where they 
have furnished the syncopation for a 
number of important events. Bob 
McGowan himself VO a former Tech 
man having graduated from the school 
of Applied Design In 1920. A picture 
of the orchestra will be found on page 
three.
The favors (his yoar are pi ascii lino 
to a degree that will make presenta­
tion to tho ladies' an Impossibility, 
feminine dress today being what It is. 
Being a guarded secret, if Avas only 
possible to find out what they are not. 
Among things mentioned wore wal­
lets, card cases, culT links, tlbs and 
boutonnioroH, things of which 'most 
men aro supposed to have a. trunk 
full. However, the favors aro good 
looking, useful, and suitable to bo on 
hand when dating, with your most 
supercilious girl friend.
A dinner propurod by the University 
Club .chef wlll^he served at .midnight. 
This man who has catered, to Iho 
epicures of Pittsburgh socjoly. for 
many years, and who. has pleased, .op 
every occasion has > promIs.ed to give 
i his best Friday night. Delicious food 
I attractively served will bring to a 
climax the evening’s t’os(.lv.itles,, . ,
The second and llnal assessments 
for this event may be paid to (lie girls 
collecting In each of the various de­
partments or in (lie in&ln halls of 
Margaret Morrison or Arts School any 
noon this week. Tho preliminary 
compulsory fee was live dollars leav­
ing a balance of eight dollars to be' 
paid l’or the admittance card. This 
entitles the holder not only to the 
Prom Friday night, but also the prive- 
lege of attending next years Prom as a 
guest.
The Junior Prom following the cus­
tom of many older schools In the 
country has become a colorful and 
honored tradition at Carnegie Tech. 
The outstanding social event of the 
third year class it always takes on a 
cosmopolitan air in brilliancy, deco­
rations and general festive atmos­
phere. All Junior girls should try to 
get to the University Club Friday 
night because present predictions 
forecast an occasion which will he an 
even greater success than the ban­
quet of last year.
Betty Marshall, the president of the 
Junior class of Margaret Morrison will 
lead the Grand March. Dean Mary 
Watson Green, Director Mary E. 
Breed, Dean and Mrs. Arthur W. Tar,- 
bell, Director Glendinning Keeble, and 
Miss Edith M. Winchester, M. M. C. 
j C. Class advisor will be among the 
honored guests.
| The ball will last from 9 to 2.
ASSEMBLY IN ROOM 
104 INDUSTRIES TODAY
'9. E. Dibble, Head of the Depart­
ment of Heating and Ventilating, has 
secured Mr. W. H. Dresca, vice presi­
dent of the Thompson-Starrett Com­
pany, one of the largest building con­
tractors in tho United States, to speak 
and "Cy Hungerford, cartoonist, of 
the Post-Gazette, to entertain at the 
Industries assembly to be held today 
in 104 Industries.
Mr. Desca has charge of the mechan­
ical equipment of buildings of the 
Thompson-Starrett Company usually 
have charge of building very large ho­
tels and buildings.

---------------------------------------------------

PAGE TWOTHE CARNEGIE TARTANTUESDAY, FEBRUARY 21, 1928
February :iG, 1928. 
Clarence Overend, Esq.,
Carnegie Institute of Technology, 
Pittsburgh, Penna.
Dear Mr. Overend:
I was unfortunate enough to be 
away from home on Tuesday evening 
last; therefore, did not have an oppor­
tunity of hearing the program tflven 
tinder “The Carnegie Radio Hour,” 
but I have heard from numerous 
ftriendB since the occasion, that all of 
those talcing part in the program, ac­
quitted themselves In a very wonder­
fully creditable manner, and one 
whleh has done much good for our in­
stitution, and I want to congratulate 
and thanlc you for your part in till» 
evening's program, which has done so 
much already, for our flno Institution.
it iB items like these that go far to 
giving us our proper status among the 
educational institutions of the entire 
world, and it is a fine spirit which you 
have shown in co-operating so fully to­
ward making this a memorable occa­
sion.
Thanking you again and again, be­
lieve me always,
Very sincerely yours,
JOHN II. PORTER.
DAVID R. INGALLS 
! NIGHT SCHOOL GRAD 
CLIMBING UPWARD
Mechanical Engineer Now 
Dist. Supt. of Equipment 
for Bell Telephone
L.XIN2.C AXRI.LEXGL
WASHINGTON, D. C.
February 15, 1928. 
Dear Professor O'Brien:
Congratulations on your very de­
lightful concert enjoyed by radio in 
Washington, D. C., February 14. We 
heartily endorse the wonderful pro­
gram and hope every feature will have 
a “repeat."
It seems impossible to commend 
one feature more than the other. 0£ 
course, the “Kilties” are wonderful— 
your tenor marvelous—in fact every 
feature seemed 100 per ceiit and we 
hope you will treat the air very soon 
again.
Our interest in Carnegie and the 
suiocoBB for all undertakings is dou- 
Med with the attendance of William 
McNeill, a junior with you folks this 
year.
Cordially yours,
MR. AND MRS. F A. McNEILL. 
3368 Newton Street, N. W., 
Washington, D. C.
WATSON MANUFACTURING CO.
Jamestown, N. Y.
February 15, 1928. 
Carnegie Institute of Technology, 
Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania.
Attention:
Mr. O’Brien, Musieal Director. 
Dear Sir:
I wish to congratulate you upon the 
wonderful program received through 
. station KDKA of Pittsburgh, Pennsyl­
vania, put on hy Carnegie Institute of 
Technology.
You certainly are entitled to com­
mendation for the program broadcast 
ed. Bum and every one of the num­
bers were wonderful. 1 enjoyod the 
tenor singer, the bagpipe, tho Kilty 
band, the choir, the quartet and “tho 
uklts" put on by tho dramatic depart­
ment. in fact, tho entire program was 
very enjoyable and I assure you that 
I hope that it will be possible for Car­
negie institute of Technology to 
broadcast often.
I was especially interested In tho 
program owing to tho fact that I have 
at now who Is a freshman In the archi­
tectural department.
With best wishes for the success of 
your school and hoping that I may be 
uble to again listen to your wonder­
ful program,' I am,
Yours very truly,
II. R. MILLER,
330 Mol wood Street, 
Pittsburgh, Pa.
Dear Mr. Wallace:
I just want) to write a few lines to 
.tell you how much I enjoyed your 
.rprogram on Tuesday evening. It was 
.-simply, marvelous. I enjoyed the two 
»drama sketches more than anything
• else but others that have been talk­
ing about the program enjoyed other 
parts, so I think it Was well planned.
It sounded so nice to hear your 
voice—it carried very distinctly. Let’s 
. have more of it'.
"Stour friend, 
liESPITH ALBRIGHT.
Following is a story we noted in 
The Ski bo, night school paper, which 
we have thought worth reprinting In 
the /Fartan. It is the story of a night 
school student, and we must not for­
get that our night students form an 
j Important part of our organization:
About 1911 a tall, blond young man 
arrived in our busy city and lie won­
dered what it was all about. As it ap­
peared to him, everywhere he went-to 
seek employment,' he was asked what 
lie knew. That is rather a mean ques­
tion to ask a fellow just fresh out or 
high school and especially one who 
j has not been about much to get experi­
ence. Naturally, his answers were 
j not very promising, but. he took tills 
as his cue and started to investigate, 
j in his own way, the industrial condl- 
j tions of this city.
He found that technical knowledge 
i and industrial training were the "big” 
| tilings around these parts and he then 
decided that if he ever expected to 
j get anywhere it wo,uld be necessary 
I to acquire some of that technical 
training. His means were modest 
and, as he was shifting for himself, 
night school offered the only logical 
solution to his decision.
He registered in the College of En­
gineering in' the fall of 1911 and fol­
lowed a night, course in mechanical en­
gineering. He remained at this 
bourse in night school for two years, 
during which period he> recouped his 
financial means sufficiently to finish 
his course in day school in three more 
years. He was graduated in 1916 with 
a B. S. degree in mechanical engineer­
ing. In 1925 he was awarded the pro­
fessional degree as mechanical engi­
neer.
About the time of his graduation 
Uncle Sam was looking for good 
strong engineers for artillery service. 
He enlisted in the U. S. Army and re­
ceived a commission as lieutenant. 
After nearly two years of service, both 
In this country and in France, he was 
•“fired” 'from the army, and again 
placed on his own resources. The ex­
perience gained in the army was a 
help t6 him in his industrial enter­
prises and later ho secured a position 
with the Bell Telephone Company of 
Pennsylvania. With this company his 
services have been appreciated and he 
has reeelvod several promotions. At 
the presont time this blond young 
man, who, by the way is David R. In­
galls, 1h district equipment superin­
tendent of the Bell Telephone Com­
pany of Pennsylvania. He is making 
good; ho is still on the way up.
In Mr. Ingalls’ own modest state­
ment ho admits that his technical 
training is responsible for a largo part 
of .this succoss and tho fact that tills 
training was .received at Carnogio 
Tech Is one of his greatest assotB,
Intercollegiate Glee Club Tickets
Mr. James X. Bortz,
1403 Oliver Building, Pittsburgh, Pa.
Enclosed please find %................for which send me.................tickets
for the Pennsylvania State Intercollegiate Glee Club Contest—Car­
negie Hall, February 24, 1928/
( ) Boxes (seating 10) .....$25.00 Name.........................................
( ) Orchestra & first 3 rows Bal. 2.00 Address
( ) Balance of Balcony..... 1.50
( ) Second Balcony—first 4 rows 1.00 ..........................................
( ) Second Balcony—Balance ... .50 ...............................................
CARNEGIE TECH SECTION
CLAN NEWSNOTICE! ALL CLANS!
'Professor. J. Vick O’Brien:
Congratulations and appreciation of 
your symphony and Bach Chorale and 
radio program. Fine!
Mil. AND MRS. TAYLOR 
ALLDERDICE.
Cor. Wilkins and Murray Hill Aves.
. THE WHITE MOTOR COMPANY .
Cleveland.
February 15, 1928. 
Mr. Clarence Overend,
Carnegie Institute of Technology, 
Pittsburgh, Pa.
Dear “Buddy:”
Last evening my wife and I listen­
ed In with a great deal of Interest 1° 
tho Tech program broadcast from 
KDKA. Wo, of course, heard your 
word of greeting to the Carnegie 
Alumni and It sounded like old times. 
This method or advertising the school 
to the public and at tho same time 
bringing the graduates in direct touch 
witli the campus, is a wonderful idea. 
I hope it can be repeated again this 
spring. v
With kindest regards, I am,
Yours very truly,
H. J. McCORIvLE, 
Personal Assistant to President.
ANOTHER GEM FROM CHINESE 
POETRY
Article by Dr. Baker in 
Engineering Journal
“Adult Education in the Pittsburgh 
District’’ is the title of an article in 
the January issue, of “Professional 
Engineering” written by Dr. Thomas
S. Baker, president of .the Carnegie 
Institute of Technology. This maga­
zine is a monthly journal of social 
and economic welfare which is work­
ing for the purpose of gaining recogni­
tion and adequate compensation for 
engineers.
Dr. Baker in his article defines 
adult education as representing the 
deliberate efforts by which men and 
women seek to grow in knowledge 
after the periodi of formal schooling 
has ended. He states the results of 
experiments conducted by Professor
E. L. Thorndike of Columbia Univer­
sity concerning the ability of the adult 
to learn. The experiments show that 
our ability to learn increases until 
we are twenty years old and then de­
creases at the rate of approximately 
one per cent each year.
Dr. Baker believes that it is lack 
of opportunity and desire, and not lack 
of ability that keeps adults from fur- 
j tlier knowledge. Correspondence or 
j evening schools furnish fheans of. fur- 
I thering one’s education. The enroll- 
j ment at evening schools in the United 
! States has increased five hundred per 
I cent in forty years. The Carnegie 
| Tech Evening School has increased 
j its registration over three hundred 
| per cent in the last six years. The 
j Westingliouse Company compared the 
value o{’ the men who studied, aside 
from their regular duties, with other 
men in the same class of work. It was 
found that forty-one per cent of those 
who were studying at correspondence 
or evening school are in the upper 
class of workers and fifty-five per cent 
are in the middle class, showing the 
value of this idea of further educa­
tion while working.
For the past twenty-two years the 
Carnegie Institute of Technology has 
offered evening courses primarily for 
men and women who are at work dur­
ing the day and who are unable tf^ 
avail themselves of the regular day 
courses. With about 3,500 students 
it Is the largest evening school in 
Western Pennsylvania.
M, M. Alumnae Bridge is 
I Very Successful Party
What has been pronounced as a j 
very successful card party, was held 
at the Hotel Schenley on February
11. This was the ninth Annual Mar­
garet Morrison Alumnae Bridge Party. 
The purpose of this bridge is to fur­
nish a source of funds for the junior 
and senior scholarships, given by the 
Alumnae Association. These are the 
Harriet H. Ellis and Frances Camp 
Parry Memorial Scholarships.
There were 102 tables this year one 
less than the number of tables in play 
last year. Over ?700 has been cleared 
and all the money has not been turned 
in as yet. This is more than has ever 
been made before and is due to the 
contributions of out of town alumnae 
who sent donations even though un­
able to attend the bridge party. It Is 
very interesting to note that the out 
of town alumnae have taken an 
Interest in the local work of the 
Alumnae Association.
The success of the party was due 
to the work of the chairman, Mrs. 
Mary McKee Wilson, her assistant 
chairman, Miss Eleanore Reismeyer 
and the various comjnittees which 
assisted Mrs. Wilson.
Some time in March, the Margaret 
Morrison Alumnae Association * will 
I hold its annual theater party in the 
Little Theater of the Fine Arts 
I School. The date has not been 
definitely decided upon and will be 
announced in the next issue of the 
Tartan. The activities of the associa­
tion for the school year 1927-28 will 
end on April 21, when a dinner dance 
will be held at the University Club/
Columbus, Ohio—(IP)—It is thought
; that cheer leaders at Ohio State uni- 
! versity may be given numerated mega­
phones as, recognition of their work 
next season.
Columbus, Ohio—(IP)—Russell Hos­
ier, who has been a cop in Columbus 
since 1923, is. studying law at Ohio 
State university, and retaininghis po­
lice job at opce. He says that his 
studies and work are mutually helpful 
to each other.
PHILADELPHIA
A small meeting of Philadelphia 
alumni was held on Carnegie Tech 
Radio Night, at which plans were dis­
cussed for the next big party, which is 
a dinner dance on St. Patrick’s day, 
March 17, at the Brookline Square 
Club.
The members met at the Penn Ath­
letic Club, those who wished bringing 
their wives or girls, and a special golf 
picture called “The Nineteenth Hole” 
was shown and feature picture on a 
regular movie night. After the pic­
ture, the girls retired to the ladies’ 
room and played bridge, etc., while 
the men all adjourned to Tilly's “dug- 
out” to hear the Carnegie program 
and for refreshments. Unfortunately 
the. static was so bad that it was 
scarcely worthwhile to listen in, but 
we did hear some of the music, but 
really were forced to tune in on some­
thing nearer home for real enjoyment.
Those present were Mr. and Mrs. 
Reggie Ward, Mr. and Mrsi Paul 
Shaver, Mr. and Mrs. Jimmy Robert­
son, Mr. and Mrs. Phil Rassbacli, 
Louie Seebach, Miss Godfrey,_Mr. and 
Mrs. Jimmy Campbell, Repplier,. Ex­
line, Davy, M. D. Scott, Eddie Hirsch, 
Earley, Styri and Tillbrook.
From the amount of noise issuing 
from the northeast corner of the sev­
enth floor of the Penn A C., it can be 
judged that everybody there was hav­
ing a good time and we feel sure that
*
We would like to know how * 
you liked Radio Nite last Tues- 
day evening. We who listened ? 
in at home here or wrent to the ?> 
Music Hall to hear it first hand *!? 
thought it was great, but of ? 
course we do not know how it *r 
came through to you. -!•
We have received letters from 
quite a few individuals, in differ- *> 
ent sections of the country, and •> 
we would like to know how the *!• 
Clans received it. If you had * 
parties or meetings that night ? 
write in and tell us about it, so •> 
we. can tell the other clans. %•
Fcrthermore, a repetition of -> 
such a program depends solely ? 
upon its success this time, so if v 
you think it was worth while and -I* 
tell us so, and give us any sug- * 
gestions you have. -I*
j the next party of this kind will bring 
j forth a cappacity crowd.
i Topeka, Kans.—(IP)—Washburn
'college has. joined 'the group of col- 
: leges 'and universities which are 
I erecting huge athletic field houses. A 
I new indoor athletic field, to cost 
| $185,000, and to seat 5,500 spectators, 
j is being planned for erection in the 
! near future here.
Forbes Mattonai Bank
FIFTH AND OAKLAND
“Your Home Bank”
Capital, $300,000.00 Surplus, $300,000.00
Student Accounts Welcome—No Service Charge
R. K. Mellon, President W. S. Phillips, Cashier 
Thomas Ii. McCandless, Assistant Cashier
Parents can still kiss their children 
goodnight, if they want to stay up till
- 4 o’clock in the morning.—Butler Col- 
vlegian.
No loss promlnont a critic than M. 
Paul Eugono Bausse or “Lo Journal” 
(Paris) luyi hastened to insist on tho 
preeminence of Po Chu-i among poets 
of tho T’ang Dynasty. Of the minor 
lyrics M,' Bausse says: “Jo trouve
dans cos Jolios morcoaux un Muso 
fantastlque,” In spite of the statement 
of Mr. Van Vroot; who maintains, that 
Po Chu-i brought to Chinese Litera­
ture nothing that was not already 
here. ‘‘I find him incapable of creat­
ing the magic one finds In Tu Fu or 
Li Po—Po Chu-I’s insistence on ‘feng’ 
and *ya' is at best, the creed of a re­
actionary burthened with an obsolete 
sense of moral obligation to tradition* 
al artificiality, and the man on the 
street.”
In his once celebrated, but not too j 
little read Dizain des S'entimenta 
listes, M. St. Marie Valliant has de­
voted alternate chapters to the work 
of Po Chu’i and Paul Verlaine, the 
purport of which one may not accept 
conscientiously without considering 
the softening influences of two poets 
separated by racial characteristics and 
the considerable matter of a thousand 
years. It Is to his shame that M. Val­
liant could not find only a sedulous 
aping of the Chinese poet in Verlaine’s 
threnodies on ghosts in forgotten gar- 
dents and “les jours anciens.” It is 
hardly to a critic’s credit that he de­
nies verities generally ceded by every­
one to be eternal.
For the following rough translations 
we are Indebted to Messrs. Nicholas 
Ilarron and Paul Scarthling.
An Aged Harp.
This harp is made of cassia-wood and 
cord;
It holds in its breast old melodies.
Old melodies weak and outworn 
That will no longer pleaso tho people. 
These stops of Jado are bereft of col-
* or, of light,
And dust lios along the rosey cords. 
Long since, it was put away, a ruined 
harp,
But it retains the past magic.
If you wish I will play for you:
But though 1 play, no one listens.
You need not ask the reason for such 
neglect:
The flute of Cli’iang and the Cli’in 
flageolet 
Have replaced the harp.
—McGill Daily.
W,HY SO MAI\1YaSI%IOK.ERS HAVE 
CHANGED T© CH ESTERE!ELD . . »
BA STATE it as
our honest belief that
the tobaccos used in
Chesterfield cigarettes
are of finer quality
and hence of better
taste than in^ any
other cigarette at the
price. Liggett & Myers 
Tobacco Co.
... and what’s more—
THEY’RE MILD
and yet THEY SATISFY!

---------------------------------------------------

TUESDAY, FEBRUARY 21, 1928THE CARNEGIE TARTANPAGE THREE.
FIRST CHURCH OF CHRIST
SCIENTIST 
CLYDE STREET, PITTSBURGH
SUNDAY SERVICES 
11 A. M. 8 P. M,
Sunday School 11 A. M.
Wednesday evening services 8 to 9.
If V I S I O NilJ PROGRESS p 
'SERVICE 1 
CHARACTER Ji
BUREAGASN is ft profession with great promise for 
a successful career. Our organization affords many 
real opportunities. Interview between 0 A. M. and 
3 P. M. or by appointment. Bureau of employment 
10th floor.
IKAUf/HANN’/
DEAN OF WOMEN TO BE 
AT BOSTON CONFERENCE
Leaves Friday, 24, for National 
Association Meeting of 
Deans of Women.
Air Pockets
The Aviation Club of Carnegie Tech 
will go on the air from WCAE Thurs­
day evening at 10:30, with an excep­
tional program. Some of the best of 
Carnegie’s talent will assist the club j 
in its entertainment. Mildred Core
-r. ~ , T-. • i * I will sing and Beverstark will rock theDean Green will leave 011 Friday for .. ... . .el.her waves with his accordian
"Red” Powell and Tommy Mills, who
have been making life miserable for
the residents of Welch Hall, will
continue to do so over the radio with
a pair of ukeleles.
The program will have' clarinet,
saxophone and guitar solos, to say j
nothing of a xylophone rendition.
So just tune your super-hetterodyne
or radiola in on WCAE Thursday at
10:30.
The club made a splendid take-off 
in the .matter of ground equipment, 
when it appropriated money for aero­
nautical books to be placed in the 
"Hut” library.
The secretary, Mr. Lemon, has <e- 
ceived a iarge number of inquiries 
concerning the club. Several of Pitts­
burgh’s leading business and profes­
sional men have signified their inten­
tion to become associate members.
Mr. Yahner of the Pittsburgh Press 
talked at the last meeting on his fly­
ing experiences. He was very inter­
esting and was keenly appreciated by 
the club. Incidentally, Mr. Yahner 
Business session \ "’as the first air mail passenger from 
Pittsburgh to Cleveland.
the fifteenth regular meeting of the 
National Association of Deans of 
Women, to convene at the Hotel Cop- 
'ley-Plaza, in Boston, on February 27,
2S, 29 and March 1, 1928, in conjunc­
tion with the Department of Superin­
tendence of the National Education 
Association.
Miss Greçn, serving on the nomina­
tion committee which is to take up the 
question ôf the "Manner of Nomina­
tion and Election of Officers in 1929,” 
will leave Pittsburgh on Friday night,
February 24. She will tour the Colum­
bia University campus on Saturday, 
leaving for Boston 011 Sunday morn­
ing.
The following is a synopsis of the 
program from Monday ' morning 
through Thursday night:
Monday, February 27.
9:00 A. M.—Meeting of Executive 
Committee.
9:00-12:00 A. M.—Joint session with 
National Committee of Bureaus of Oc­
cupations, Personal Research Federa­
tion, and National Association of Col­
lege Appointment Secretaries.’
2:00-5:00 P. M.—'Registration.
2:00-4:30 P. M.
(members only).
5.:00 P. M.—Tea at Simmons Col­
lege.
8:3C-10:00 P. M.—Discussion meet­
ing (members only).
Tuesday, February 28.-
9:30-fL2:00 A. M.—Section meetings.
12:30 P. M.—Luncheon. 1
2:30-4:30 P. M.—General session 
and tea at Agassiz House, Radcliffe 
College.
7:00 P. . M.—Reception and formal 
dinner.
Wednesday, February 29.
9:30-12:00 A. M.—Discussion meet­
ing (members only).
12:30 Pi M.—Luncheon.
2:15-3.15 P. M.—Question box hour.
4:30 P. M.—Tea at Wellesley Col­
lege.
Evening college dinners.
Thursday, March 1.
9:30-12:00 A. M.—Business session 
(members only).
12:30-2:00 P. M.—Luncheon for high 
school deans.
2:30-4:30 P. M.—Joint session with 
National Panhellenic Congress (mem­
bers only). The chance of a life time has come
S:00 p. M. Executive committee at la8t tor the feIlow or girl who has 
m'eeting. ,
, The topics to be discussed at the always wanted to 8ee Eur°Pe- There 
convention are "Professional Training |ls a party consisting-of one hundred 
of the Dean of Women,”. "Present ^ college students and a college jazz 
Problems in Training for the Dean’s band leaving Montreal June 21 for Work.” Besides these discussions,1T _____, ^ . , , ,, „ ..., ... , , .. . 1 Liverpool, England, and all of thespeakers will present such topics as
BOB McGOWAN’S ORCHESTRA
MAJOR GEN. GIBBS WILL 
VISIT R.0J.C. SIGNAL UNIT
A discussion was held regarding f.hr 
building of a glider by the club. The 
matter will be taken up later.
At the next meeting, February 28, 
Jack Smith, veteran air mail pilot, 
will speak. Smith will be remember­
ed as the pilot whose engine went out 
of commission over the Allegheny 
river. Although able to maintain his 
level, it was impossible To ascend, 
necessitating his flying beneath six of 
the bridges spanning the river before 
he could alight on the bank. The pub­
lic is invited to hear him. 1
The club’s radio program will be a 
regular feature from station WCAE 
and will consist ¦ of talks and enter­
tainment.
COLLEGE HUMOR 0FFFRS 
22 DAY TRIP TO EUROPE
principal cities in England, France, 
and Belgium. This trip is made pos­
sible by College Humor and the Art 
Crafts Guild and is under the control 
of John P. Paulson, tour conductor.
The students leave Montreal June 
21 on the S. S. Montclare for Liver­
pool, England. While in England they 
will visit the home of Shakespeare, 
Oxford College, Eton College, and 
London. Three days will be spent in 
London. The first day will be devot­
ed to sightseeing with the entire party 
while the second and third day will be 
put at disposal of individuals to spend 
as they wish. ,
,,mLD . ... , . From London they will cross theThe question asked 4his week sn -m i- ¦u . V. ± ™(it\ .. , English Channel to Ostand, Burgessthe interviews was: Do you attend i v.- * • , e -r, •1. re 10 tp i. and other historical cities of Belgium,assemblies? If so, why? If not, why ,T .not?„ I Next 77111 come the little Capitol of
I Belgium, Brussels. While in Brussels
“Standards.” "Wavs of Mutual Help­
fulness,” “The Executive,” “Senior 
High School and Freshman College 
Courses,” “Emotional Handicap?, of 
the Professional Woman." "Institute 
of Pacific Relations,” "The Harmo­
nious .Life,” "The League Fight 
Against Industrial Diseases,” “The 
Student Editor and Campus Opinion” 
and many other subjects of interest to 
college people.
TheBagpipe
The Signal Corps Unit of the R. O. 
T. C. at Carnegie Tech will be visited 
early in March by Major General 
George Sabon Gibbs, who is stationed 
in Washington, D. C., as the Chief of 
the Signal Corps Unit of the Army. 
General Gibbs' is making a tour of in­
spection of all the colleges in the coun­
try at which R. O. T. C. Signal Corpa 
organizations have been established.
General Gibbs has only recently 
been appointed as the Chief of the 
Army Signal Corps, although he held 
a similar position in the A. E. F. dur­
ing the World War. He is a graduate 
of the University of Iowa at which 
school he received two degrees, one 
in 1897 and one in 1901. He has won 
the Distinguished Service Medal and 
has received a War Department Cita­
tion. One of General Gibb’s outstand­
ing feats in his field was that of the 
laying of the cable from Seattle, Wash­
ington, to Alaska.
General Gibbs will stop at Carnegie 
011 his way back to Washington from 
making similar inspections at M. I. 
T.. Cornell, and Ohio 'State Univer­
sity. This is the first time Carnegie 
has ever been honored by a visit by 
the Chief of the Army Signal Corps, 
all previous inspections having been 
delegated to other officers. Carnegie’d 
R. O. T. C. is anxious to make the 
best possible showing when the Gen­
eral comes, and it is expected that ho 
will speak to several, if not all, of the 
men in the R. O. T. C.
Itchaca, N. Y.—(IP)—Cornell, until 
recently a stolid old men’s university, 
is definitely coeducational now.
The school which only recently al­
lowed women to enter its portals as 
regular students, has just been given 
$1,650,000 for the erection of four 
new women's residence halls, the 
j plans for which are completed, and 
the work ready to commence with the 
coming of spring.
The donor of the buildings is 
anonymous. He is a graduate of the 
university, it is understood, and his 
wife studied there recently.
NIGHT STUDENT COUNCIL
TO HOLD HOLIDAY DANCE
Another holiday dance for the night 
students of the Carnegie Institute of 
Technology will be held 011 the even­
ing of Washington's birthday next 
Wednesday in the Carnegie Union. 
The dance is announced as the third 
of a series of four scheduled during 
the current night college year, under 
the auspices of the Night Student 
Council.
Officers of the Council are in charge 
of the coming affair.
Engineer Discusses 
River Improvements
Mr. J. H. Arras, the senior engiseet 
of the* United States Enginering Of­
fice, located iii Pittsburgh, gave a 
very interesting illustrated lecture <sia 
the subject: “Fundamentals of River
Improvement.” at the Civil Seminar, 
u required course in the curricula of 
the Sophomore, Junior and Senior 
Civils' held every Wednesday at 11:30 
a. in.
Mr. Arras discussed the two main 
methods of river improvement, name­
ly: By using locks and dams and im­
provement void of locks and dams; 
dikes and drodging beiug used in their 
place. He explained the fact that 
dikes were used both as a means of 
keeping the river within its bounds 
and also for the depositing of sedi­
ment in certain places by projecting 
in perpendicular to the river s bank. 
As Mr. Arras’s territory is of the 
Pittsburgh district his discussion was 
mainly of the river improvement on 
the Ohio and Monongahela Rivers. Th© 
slides illustrated very well, to die at­
tending future engineers, the work be­
ing carried in the way of river im­
provement. ¿lides of dairfa and locks 
in the process of construction were 
shown. ,
While this course is required of the 
| students in the Civil department, the 
: faculty is glad to have any-visitors of 
| the Freshman class or of other depart­
ments that are interested. A notice of 
j the Seminar can be found on the buJ- 
, letin board of the Civil departmenL
Madison, Wis.— (IP)—A survey held 
by a sociolçgy student at the Univer­
sity of Wisconsin has shown that 
Japanese instructors are the least 
popular of all nationalities on the 
faculty.
i many points of interest will be visited J 
| including the Churcn of Notre Dame J
Ben Kato, Sophomore in Metallur­
gical Enginering: “I attend assem­
blies when I have time1; because there , ™ ,LS T U F LH ! and the Grand Palace,might he an interesting talk by some
person out of school or by some of the I -After spending tlie day in Brussels 
faculty.” |the Party •‘will move on to Paris, the
George C. Russell, Sophomore in city Gloved by all travellers. One 
Building Construction: "Assemblies ^.e sPent viewing the city by
have never seemed to have the social 1 m°tor while the second day will be 
atmosphere which can be found any- i Siven over to the travellers to their 
where' else on the campus. Its pur-1 ^est advantage. The third day will 
pose sems to be to form closer friend- I sPent iu a boat trip to Versailles 
ship among the students of the cOl- and Malmaison, a drive through the
lege. Any other activity on the cam­
pus serves the purpose better than 
assemblies, so why go to assemblies?” 
Paul Droste, iSbphomore in Archi­
tecture: “I don’t attend assemblies
for two reasons. First the place for 
holding the assemblies is too far from 
the school, and second, I think the pro­
grams are too boresome.”
Elvira Fox, Senior in Home Econ­
omics: “Having transferred here
from another school, I do not have the 
interest that I should have. When 
you start as a freshman you are com­
pelled to go to assemblies, after this 
you have somewhat of an interest for 
assemblies,, thus I have no interest in 
the assemblies of this school.”
Kenneth Owens, Sophomore in Mus­
ic: “The programs of the assemblies
are very well arranged and they are 
also very entertaining. The one 
drawback is that Carnegie Music Hall 
is too far from the campus. I think 
this is the main reason why the as­
semblies are not well attended, I know 
that is why I do not attend.’’
Every student who is not entirely 
satisfied with the fineness, stiffness 
or ink fiow of his fountain pen should 
at earliest opportunity go to the 
Jenkins Arcade and have the Singer 
Penn & Gift Shop "fit” his hand, at 
moderate charge. Please say The 
Carnegie “Tartan."
Bois de Boulogne and other points of 
interest. The last two days will be 
given to the travellers to say good-bye 
to Paris before they • leave for Cher­
bourg where ,the “Empress of Aus­
tralia” awaits to take them back 
home.
How can anyone miss this trip? 
The entire cost is only $376. This 
price includes round trip ocean 
passage, transportation all over Eng­
land and Europe, accommodations at 
hotels, sight-seeing trips, admissions 
tG see all points of interest, transpor­
tation of baggage, • and transfer of 
passengers from station to station. It 
does not, however, include passport 
and visa expenses, government tax or 
$5, gratuities to stewards on gteamer, 
rental of deck chairs, or purely per­
sonal expenses such as laundry, bath, 
or beverages.
PATRONIZE OUR ADVERTISERS ’ four hours
Wichita, Kan. — (IP)—When the 
University of Wichita basketball team 
went., to play Hays •St5te/ Teachers 
College last Saturday, they took to the 
air instead of undergoing a tiresome 
fcur-day trip.
Although the two schools are less 
than two hundred miles apart, rail­
road connections betwen them are 
poor, and two days is required to go 
by rail from one to the other.
Consequently a squadron of five 
aeroplanes was assembled to transport 
the cagers, making the trip in about
W. C. CAVINS
ment in graduate courses at t 
University of Pennsylvania in 1922.
I was impressed with the rapid growth of the chain store. A Kresge mnnager with whom I was 
acquainted, told me of their demo­cratic system of promotion, based 
on merit alone and of the unlimited 
financial opportunities, so I ap­plied for a position.
In 1923 I began work, as has every 
man in the Kresge Company, to learn the business from the begin­
ning. Starting in the stockroom of one of our large stores, 1 spent several months learning at first 
hand the many phases of stock­
keeping. I was soon promoted to a position on the floor where I learned to buy and sell and to manage a sales organization. Since then, advancement has always 
come as rapidly as I was ready for 
greater responsibilities.
The Kresge Company offers the college man just the opportunity he is looking for. Here, he can 
apply all that he has learned in the classroom. His well-rounded 
personality is a marked asset. Hi» 
trained mind enables him to learn rapidly and he is given encourage­ment and help in mastering the many phases of a scientific business. 
Every detail of store management 
is given to men in training, every branch of the work is thrown open 
to them. His progress is encouraged by his associates and superiors, for 
hii success is chair success.
I feel sure of my rewards with n 
company whose-growth is limited only by the number of men capa­
ble of munaging Its ever-increasing and expanding units.
W. C. CAVINS,
Mgr. Store 145
-your op1 to Make
CAMPUS days will soon be over. Then follows the biggest jobof 
all, finding success in the business world. And how important 
it is that you choose a position that is ripe in future possibilities!
Will you follow the crowd and accept a job that pays you a fairly 
good salary now but offers little chance for advancement—or will 
you sacrifice a little at the start for the sake of greater rewards in 
the years to come?
If you are willing to begin at the bottom at a small salary and 
work your way to the top, the Kresge Company offers you an 
unusual opportunity to make good. Every year we select a limited 
number of college men and train them in every phase of merchan­
dising and store management. As they advance their salaries are 
increased and when their training,is completed they are given 
stores of their own to manage—stores in whose profits they share. 
If you are looking for an opportunity to make good—to hold a 
future position of trust and responsibility with an income far 
above the average—write now to our Personnel Department. We 
will send a successful graduate of your own college to meet you 
and tell you more about this Kresge opportunity.
PERSONNEL DEPT. 2
S S KRESGE CO
5-10-25c. STORES ' - - 25c. to $1.00 STORES 
KRESGE DETROIT BUILDING

---------------------------------------------------

PAGE FOURTHE CARNEGIE TARTANTUESDAY, FEBRUARY 21, 1928
OAKLAND’S 
RESTAURANT 
—for— 
CARNEGIE 
STUDENTS
looking document starts at the r 
side of the parchment and reads 
ward to the left.
3808-10 Forbes Street
some
For twenty-five years the Oakland Savings & Trust Company has 
served with fidelity the financial requirements of the Oakland Dis­
trict, and the character of that service is reflected in its consistent 
record of growth.
Long association and intimate contact with the requirements of 
the Oakland District have given to it a keen appreciation of the in­
dividual and business needs of those it serves, and at all times it en­
deavors to inject the personal equation into its transactions, in the 
hope of fostering the true spirit of friendship, which, in the last analy­
sis, is the biggest asset any financial Institution can hope to have.
Its various departments are thoroughly organized to meet your 
every financial need, and and it solicits your business, whether It be 
large or small, with assurance that your favor will be appreciated by 
a sustained endeavor to render complete satisfaction.
THE OAKLAND BANK
Member Federal Reserve System
Forbes and Meyran Avenues
Ww'wZinÌi/ii 
imitni« mwwv\
BELLCONNECTING
The vital youth of 
the Bell System is 
seen in this chart 
of growth.
Number of telephones
Music Notes
February 21.
The I*. M. I. Club will be entertain­
ed with an eighteenth century pro­
gram at Its meeting February 21 at 
8:30 p. m. In addition to costume 
dances of the period, two onc-act plays 
wll.h eighteenth century settings will 
be presented, a Minuet by Parker, and 
at Beau of Bath by Mackay.
February 24.
A recital by advunced students will 
be given Friday.evening, February 24, 
at Pittsburgh Musical Institute. No 
cards of admission are required. The 
players are Helen Falcone, Sara Lin­
ton, Ruth Staiger, Grace Elcoate, 
Maude Cook, Margaret Liddell Mad­
den, Helen Kwiatonowski, Alberta 
Yeaglln, Kathryn Lewis, Hanna Lar- 
din, Edna Keilly, Doris Fades, Eleanor 
Lawry, Helen Ilotham and Bertha 
Green.
Last Friday night the Pittsburgh 
Orchestra Association presented the 
Minneapolis Symphony Orchestra at 
the Syria Mosque. The orchestra made 
its appearance in conjunction with 
Pittsburgh's Mendelssohn Choir of 
200 voices in Beethoven’s Ninth Sym­
phony. Particular interest in the con­
cert of the orchestra centered around 
its remarkable leader, Henri Ver- 
brugghen. He gave Beethoven’s Ninth 
Symphony, a most spirited reading. 
The choir was at its apex in the fi­
nale. The vocal soloists .included 
Jeannette Vreeland, Nevada van der 
Veer, Judson House and Fraser 
Gauge.
The Tartan announces with 
regret the death of Mrs. Thomas 
R. Alexander, wife of Dr. T. R. 
Alexander, associate professor 
of chemical engineering, at their 
home in Redstone road, Wash­
ington, Pa., on Friday morning, 
February 17. Mrs. Alexander 
died as the result of a severe at­
tack of quinsy.
COLLEGIA'!!] IMPS CHOSEN 
FOR GAMBOL OF GUILDS
March 2 To Be Night of Varied 
Program With the Dancing 
Hour Set at 1:00 P. M.
Guy Maier and Lee Pattlson, two of 
the foremost pianists in the field of 
music with two pianos, gave a concert 
at Syria Mosque, Monday night. The 
perfection of ensemble of these two 
artists is the marvel of many con­
temporary musicians, and their pro­
gram was interesting and unusual. 
Tliey had a strong predilection for 
modern works and composers, but 
they filso played with facility selec­
tions from Bach to Mozart.
A recital was given by the students 
of the Department of Music, Sunday 
evening, February 1!). A very inter­
esting and varied program was given. 
The program was as follows: 
PROGRAM 
Sonata in C minor for violin and
piano ........................................ Grieg
Allegro molto ed appassionata 
Helen Foster, Margaret Gallagher 
Recitative and Aria, “Adieu, forets” 
(Jeanne d’Arc) .......Tchaikovsky
Margaret Husband
Variations Serleuses.......Mondelssohn
Hungarian Rhapsody, No. 'I........Liszt
James Miller
Violin Concerto In G minor........Bruch
Prelude
Adagio
Stovan A m hr Its
Piano Concerta in A minor........Grieg
Allegro molto moderate 
Adagio
Allegro moderato
Martini Hanlon 
Mary Long and Jean Sawhill 
Accompanists.
Columbus, Ohio (IP) The 1028 
convention of Scabbard and Blade, na­
tional military honorary fraternity, Is 
to be hold at Ohio iStftto university on 
April 2(1, 27, and 28, 1928.
PATRONIZE OUR ADVERTISERS
With the night of the Gambol of the 
Guilds yet two weeks away, consider­
able activity on the part of those in 
charge lias nevertheless been noticed, 
with the pleasing result that all ar­
rangements have been completed. Pro­
grams, music, the Union and similar 
devices which go to make up a satis­
factory affair are all in readiness and 
only awaiting the night of March 2.
The committee, with Burnside at 
the helm, is considering several novel 
items in an , endeavor to present an 
e'ntirely different Gambol—a departure 
from what the present conception of 
of the affair seems to be. The Colle­
giate Imps, recently witnessed and 
favorably accepted at the last Sopho­
more dance have been secured and 
will bring the services of eight tal­
ented young men to "the aid of the 
party.” Likewise programs emblem­
atic of the Schools of 'S'cience and In­
dustries will be ushered at the door— 
rich in quality and quantity. The 
same phrase might pertain to another 
feature of the evening—furnished un­
der the nomenclature of refreshments, 
a most important cog in the assuring 
of a successful evening.
Dancing shall continue until 1:00 
not in the Sophomore sense of the 
word, but actually until one hour past 
midnight, and the entire student body 
is invited to share in the revelry. In 
times past the dance has sometimes 
been mistaken as the sole affair of 
the Engineers, and the committee 
wishes to make clear the fact that a 
most cordial invitation is extended 
Margaret Morrison and Arts as well
I as the other two schools.
The tax is to be $2.00 per couple— 
with a bona fide guarantee of good 
time a-plenty to those who attend.
Pamphlet By President Baker Shows 
Business Progress Aided By Education
Bishop Alexander Mann 
To Talk at Chapel Feb. 28
The noxt chapel Is to be held on 
Tuesday, February 28, In the Littlo 
Theater. The speaker obtained for 
that date Is Bishop Alexander Mann, 
head of the Pittsburg|i Diocese. Bish­
op Mann, as all who have hoard him 
can testify, Is a speaker who always 
has some thought or Idea of value to 
give* to his audlonco. Next woolt, 
thon. will he a good time to start 
regular attendance at chapel. In the 
absence of Doctor Baker, Professor 
Dennison Is to prosldo.
The now time for chapel has just 
gone into effect, and the start last 
Tuesday Appeared to bo a good omen 
for better attendance In the future. 
Quito a largo number wore present. 
However, It is hoped that even more 
will bo able to arrange to bo present 
at the now hour of 1.1:30 on Tuesdays.
Eugene, Ore., February 5.—(PIP) — 
A university diploma! written entirely 
in Japanese has been forwarded by 
Earl M. Pallett, registrar of the Uni­
versity of Oregon, to Masa Norl 
Yamashita of Kagawakon, Manugajna, 
Japan.
This is the first time in the history 
of the University that a diploma has 
been issued in Japanese. The queer 
right 
up-
The progressive business managerj 
has been convinced that education j 
pays. This Is shown by the demand j 
made by some managers upon the per- j 
sonnel department' head that a definite 
percentage of the employes take up | 
some form of educational work.
The Aluminum Company of America 
attempts to keep twelve per cent of i 
its men engaged In some kind of 
school work. The management be­
lieves thaUone out of every eight or [ 
fflno men should be ambitious enough 
to prepare himself for a better posi­
tion* With only a few of its men tak­
ing educational courses, the manage­
ment would feel that it was manned 
by an inferior group.
That there Is an Increasing demand 
for skilled workers is readily illustrat­
ed by statistics of the Board of Voca­
tional Education. According to these 
data, vocational enrollments in the 
United States have increased from 
164,186 students in 1918 to 884,009 in
1926, or 500 per cent in eight years. 
Night and Continuation School Stu­
dents Compare Favorably With 
Other Workers.
Employes of the Westlnghouse Elec­
tric and Manufacturing Company who 
were attending night and continuation 
schools were rated by their superiors 
in comparison with men engaged in 
similar work. The results were as 
follows: In relation to men engaged
in similar work, 41 per cent were 
placed in the top quarter, and'55 per 
cent in the middle half, or a total of 
96 per cent in these groups. Furth­
ermore, the investigation revealed the 
fact that of all the employes who 
were enrolled in outside educational 
institutions, 93 per cent were taking 
work In line with their best interests.
In other'words, the night students, 
instead of neglecting their daily work 
as many employers imagine they 
might, were in reality acting as pace­
setters for the.other men in their de­
partments engaged in similar work. 
Mental Training Leads To Content­
ment and Reduces Labor 
T urn-Over.
Employes whose spare hours are 
spent in study are more contented 
than their fellow workmen of equal 
mentality whose spare time is spent 
otherwise than in organized study.
It is estimated that the labor turn­
over in the United Stages in 1926 was 
125 per cent of the number employed. 
Thus, to maintain an average employ­
ment roll of 1,000, it was necessary to 
engage 1,250 additional persons. In 
some industries, of cburse, the per­
centage was much larger. Supposing 
that It requires at least a week for a 
new employe to become sufficiently 
proficient that he will be able to earn 
a profit for his employer, it is evident, 
that the first week’s wage is only an 
expense. If we assume the average 
weekly wage to be $20, then the 1,250 
new employes engaged to maintain a 
roll of 1,000 will cost the employer
INTER-GREEK FORMAL 
PLANS PROGRESSING
$25,000 during the year. While some 
turn-over is necessary to maintain the 
efficiency and morale of the force, a 
definite educational program, never­
theless, has been found to be a valua­
ble addition to other methods in re- j 
ducing the waste caused by a high la-; 
bor turn-over.
Business Now Gives Students and Ed­
ucators Every Possible Assistance.
At present, the trend is to encour­
age education both inside and outside 
of the plant. Safety courses, foreman 
training courses, apprentice training 
courses, etc., have been organized in 
many mills and factories with success. 
These courses afford the management 
an opportunity to impress various 
ideas and methods upon foremen and 
workmen. Managers of many firms 
encourage their men to follow outside 
courses of study as a means of prepar­
ing for future openings that require 
better trained workers. Many large 
corporations investigate by poll each 
year to see what percentage of their 
employes are' improving themselves 
through educational work outside of 
their working hours.
A Definite Policy Embracing Educa­
tional Activities Soon Will Be Adopt­
ed By All Large Companies.
Following the lead of several of the 
larger organizations, many firms are 
now organizing educational depart­
ments within their plants. In the 
past, business has fostered education 
with the attitude that it must be a 
good thing since so many employes 
wanted it. Many managers, however, 
in fostering education, have failed to 
see the possibilities of a definite, es­
tablished policy. At the present #me, 
broad-minded executives are co-oper- 
ating in every way with the public 
schools, colleges and universities.! In. 
the larger industrial centers, the 
schools now offer night courses as 
well as day courses. Each institution 
has a separate field. College night 
courses appeal to the workers who1 
have had to drop day studies in order 
to support themselves. Correspond­
ence schools reach those who are so 
situated that it is not convenient for 
them to attend an organized night 
school.
Business recognizes the education, 
which might be rated among the first 
six industries from the standpoint of 
capital invested, is a part of and not 
apart from itself. It js reasonable to 
expect great developments in the fu­
ture with Business now ready to use 
the force and power created by Educa­
tion.
THOMAS STOCIvHAM BAKER,
President 
Carnegie Institute of Technology.
Plans for the Interfraternity Formal 
are developing rapidly. The commit- 
te is as follows: Chairman, C. P. Ham­
ilton, Sigma Alpha Epsilon; treasurer, 
J. Seibert, Sigma Nu; H. H. Hunter, 
Kappa Sigma; J. Diffley, Delta Tau 
Delta; T. G. Pratt, Delta Upsilon. All 
are hard at Work to make this social 
affair, which is to be held at the Hotel 
Schenley on March 2, a success.
The question of doing away with 
the usual supper 'and substituting 
light refreshments thus bring­
ing about a reduction in 
the price of the tickets, is 
being seriously considered. The pro­
posed reduction would bring the price 
of the tickets from $5.50 to about 
$4.00. The programs and favors have 
already been ordered. The committee 
is enthusiastic regarding the favors, 
saying that they are beyond a doubt 
the best and most unique ever given 
at any dance here at Carnegie. Al­
though no orchestra has been con­
tracted for as yet, the field of choice 
has been considerably reduced. A de­
cision on this subject is expected by 
next week.
Better start looking around for your 
dates, .fellows!
* STATEMENT BY COUNCIL
FOR MEN’S PROM***
Income: ,
Admissions ............. .$1,7.64.00•>
10.03?
,-------------?
$1,774.03
Expenditures*
Dinners 477 at $1.20...$ 572.40
Orchestra ................. 500.00?
Favors, 250 at
$1.25 ..............$375.00?
Less 4 at $1.50 6.00?
$ 369.40*
Hall, 477 at $0.20..95.40*•*Programs ...............60.00?
Administration ....51.55*
Decorations ..........50.00*î-
19.75?
20.50
Officers ..................14.00
Damages at Club..9.00•5*
Taxies .................5.69•>
Postage ...................2.15*>
Telephone ...............45
Net Defecit Feb. 1, 1928.$1,769.89?
A number of thefavors are-V
y^et to be disposed of.?
•J* »I- -I- -I- ?!* ‘I* -I* -I- -* * * * v?
ADVERTISE AND GET RESULTS
WOMEN’S GUILD MAKES 
SECOND PLEA FOR BOOKS
About a month ago the Women’s 
Guild issued a call for children's 
books no longor neoded by their own­
ers in order that sick kiddles In the 
hospital might enjoy them. For the 
past few weeks various studonts on 
the campus have been responding to 
this call and the book collection Is in­
creasing. The Art -School sororities 
have supported this move particularly 
well and it Is hoped that other organ­
izations will follow their lead. A great 
many more books are needed to make 
the collection worth while; The Guild 
board wishes to have all books brought 
in by the next week so that the plates 
may be inserted and the books pre­
pared for donating. The collection of 
book Is to be presented to the chil­
dren’s ward of the St. Margaret Hos­
pital. If the collection is large enough 
some of the books may be donated 
later to other hospitals.
Please bring in your outgrown chil­
dren’s books without delay and make 
poor sick youngster happy. 
Adele Hahn is taking charge of the 
collection and any member of the 
board will receive your books. _
ETA TAU ENTERTAINS
DISTINGUISHED VISITOR
(Continued From pace One.)
refreshments were served and the 
meeting was adjourned.
The next meeting of Theta Tau will 
be held today at 11:30 in the office of 
Mr. J. M. Daniels, 
sonage as Mr. Shrader.
Among the other representatives of 
this fraternity was Mr. Charles R. 
Fettkl, professor in mining and metal- 
, and a charter member of the 
chapter.
At the end of the business session
Palo Alto, Calif. — (IP) — Frank 
Saulioro, junior at Stanford univer­
sity, 1ms refused appointments to both 
the United States Naval Academy at 
Annapolis, and to the United States 
Military Academy at West Point.
Such action, it is believed, is 
unique,’ and it is rare that a student 
over refuses an appointment to either 
one of the national military institu­
tions.
•Sauliere, who saw active service in 
the World War, says that he prefers 
to continue his studies in Law, a ca­
reer in which he anticipates.
Sensational Savings in 
Every Department!
A fountain of youth 
for industry . . . ,
Ponce de Leon would not havesearched 
for a tangible fountain of youth if he 
had realized that youth is an attitude 
of the mind—that it may express itself 
in the ardent enthusiasm with which 
the pioneer undertakes to explore and 
develop new fields.
To men of the Bell Telephone System 
the inspiration of the pioneering spirit 
is a lasting fountain of youth. This
impelling force has already broughtabout 
such developments as the modern mul­
tiple switchboard, long distance cables 
and the permalloy loading coil ring.
The telephone needs of the nation 
grow constantly greater. To meet them 
telephone men must continue to be 
pioneers — developing better tools of 
service and guiding the entire industry 
to higher levels of usefulness.
BELL SYSTEM
<^A nation-wide system of 18,000,000 inter-connecting telephones
ADVERTISE AND GET RESULTS

---------------------------------------------------

TUESDAY. FEBRUARY 21, 1928THE CARNEGIE TARTANPAGE FIVE
ELECTRICAL SMOKER TO Funny Valentines Prove True Mirror 
BE ELABORATE FUNCTION,| Dr. Heinroth to Give
For Carnegie’s Cocky Campus Sagei ]Y\USiC Talks in Lent
The Electrical Smoker, to be held 
on March 7, promises to be one of the 
most diversified social functions ever 
staged by the alumni and students of 
the College of Engineering. Spirit 
Tuns high among the underclassmen 
in anticipation of this annual affair, 
.•since the Science Stag did not come 
to pass.
This, “The Feat of the Electricals”, 
is being arranged for by the local 
•chapter of A. I. E. E., under the direct 
supervision of Eta Kappa Nu, the hon­
orary Electrical Enginerring. frater­
nity. The committee is headed by 
Milton R. Brice, the president of Eta 
Kappa Nu. Neil Cole, chairman of the 1 
A. I. E. E., is helping Brice' handle | 
the executive work in connection I 
¦with the smoker. Both Brice and Cole 
are well known on the Campus. In 
addition to being president of Eta 
Kappa Nu, Brice is a member of Phi 
Sigma Kappa social fraternity and 
Tau Beta Pi honorary.’ Cole is well 
lcnown in the Kiltie Band, being a 
• member of Clef Club and of Sigma 
Phi Epsilon.
At all past Electrical Smoicers, novel 
iavors have been passed out to those 
attending. These are donated by 
local manufacturers, "and have con­
sisted of everything from book ends 
¦and pencils to cigar, lighters. The 
committee would not disclose the 
nature of the“ favors to be given out 
this year, but it was discovered that 
they are to be different from anything 
in the past, and are to be very valua­
ble. In addition to the various alum­
ni and class stunts to be put on, tlie 
committee feels proud in securing 
“‘Ralph Kruck and His Tartans”, one 
of the district’s most successful col­
lege dance orchestras, to,add color to 
the program. It' was through the 
•efforts of J. M. Sherman, a member of 
the orchestra and treasurer of Eta 
Kappa Nu, that popular music will be 
to the delights of the program.
The ticket committee, headed by 
R. A. Ransom of Eta Kappa Nu* and 
Alpha Sigma Phi reports that the 
demand for the coveted pasteboards Is 
“high and that they will be presented 
tor sale at an exceedingly low cost at 
an early date.
OAKLAND M. E. LEADERS TO
MEET THURSDAY EVENING
The Oakland Methodist “Episcopal 
leaders will have a conference Thurs­
day evening, February 23, at 6 p. m. 
The members are invited to dinner at 
the student house adjoining the 
church, after which they will meet to 
discuss student welfare.
Composed of students from Women’s 
colleges in Pittsburgh, the council en­
deavors to better educational opportu­
nities and to help students deal with 
obstacles that naturally come in their 
search for higher learning. Official 
representatives are appointed from 
various churches, the Young Men’s 
Christian Association, the Young 
Women's Christian Association, Uni­
versity of Pittsburgh, Carnegie Insti­
tute of Technology, and the Pennsyl­
vania College for Women, in addition 
to the deans of men and women from 
each college. Dean Green is to be the 
Carnegie representative at this con­
ference.
And once again we all know what 
we are and why. Old St. Valentine j 
might have thought he was being a j 
big right hand man to Cupid, but he | 
fumbled the dart. And now St. Valen- | 
tine’s day is the occasion for getting j 
much heaviness off the chest In the j 
form of funny valentines.
Personally, if it were not for my | 
supreme self-confidence, my ego would 
have suffered a painful death last 
Tuesday, for then I was given the 
power of seeing myself as others see 
me. Which, by the way, reminds me 
—didn’t they have St. Valentine’s 
day in Bobby Burns’ time?
Anyhow, to my kid brother’s best 
friend, I am “a long-nosed, crab-faced 
son of a gun, who nobody likes and 
who likes no one,” To one loving boy 
friend I am ‘‘A funny little pigeon- 
toed, lock-brained shrimp; not a half 
bad date, but an awful simp.” Oh, for 
some arsenic And by some affection­
ate friend who forgot to sign his, her,
its (take your choice) name, I am ad-. 
dressed thusly: “My. God, but you’re I 
good; you are some sensation! You | 
never had a date, and never a tempta- j 
tion.” Now that’s just .about too 
much. I’m a sweet-tempered creature 
in my natural state, but when I’m\ 
aroused! The timely arrival of a 
heart-shaped box of anti-grouch saved 
my disposition and the day. And a 
slightly tardy apostle of deep affection 
which ran like this, “Oh, take my 
heart, thou dream of dreams; keep it 
always for me. You are the height of 
all my hopes. Forever I’ll adore 
thee,” helped convince me that maybe 
the other Valentines were just rather 
crude, the really well-meaning, jests.
And now, as a great moralist, may 
I suggest to those whom St. Valen­
tine’s day left with that nobody loves- 
me-I'm-going-to-eat-worms feeling that 
there is only one cure; a hearty meal 
followed by a hot date on a dim dav­
enport. The' sage lia^ spokeu!
KARAPFTOFF TO SPEAK 
THIS THURSDAY EVENING
CARNEGIE QUARTERLY TO 
BE NEW MAGAZINE NAME
Lectures This Week Include Talks 
By Inventor and Emin­
ent Printer.
I Schenley 1125
| Standard Cleaning- 
| Dyeing fCo., Inc.
Standard Service Satisfies.
FEBRUARY SPECIAL 
Men’s Suits Cleaned and 
Pressed, $1 
EXPERTS ON LADIES’ 
GARMENTS 
Office and Cleaning Plant: 
702 REBECCA AVENUE 
WILKINSBURG
Branch Office 
4525 FORBES STREET 
OAKLAND
There will be two lectures of a 
technical nature in the immediate fu­
ture. The first, by Vladimir Kara- 
petoff, is on enginering. The second, 
by George R. Keller, is on nrinting.
Vladimir KarapetoIT, processor of 
electrical engineering at Cornell Uni­
versity and well-known in Pittsburgh 
as a. consulting engineer, will give a 
lecture under the auspices of the Car­
negie Institute of Technology in the 
Union, Thursday evening, February 
23, at 8:30 p. m., the subject of which 
will be “General properties of electric 
travelling waves in transmission lines 
and their reflection at terminal ap­
paratus.”
Professor Karapetoff is a native of 
Russia where he received his educa­
tion and preliminary training in elec­
trical enginering. After serving for 
several years as instructor of electri­
cal engineering in three colleges in St. 
Petersburg and as consulting engineer 
for the Russian Government, he came 
to Pittsburgh as a special engineering 
apprentice at the Westinghouse Elec­
tric and Manufacturing Company. In 
1904, he joined the faculty at Cornell. 
He is the invéntor and patentee of 
several electrical devices and in 1923 
he was awarded the Monteflore prize 
for kinematic models, of electrical mar 
chinery.
In addition to his lectures on engin­
eering topics, he is widely known as 
a lecturer on moral and psychological 
subjects, and as a recitalist on the 
piano and on a five-stringed ’cello, 
Which he has developed. His lecture 
is free to the general public. •
At 2:30 Monday afternoon, Febru­
ary 27, George R. Keller of Detroit, 
Michigan, who is Treasurer of the 
United Typothetae of America will de­
liver a lecture on “The Printers Fi­
nancial Problems." The lecture is 
open to the public and will be held at 
a place to be announced later.
EIOUTRAPU DFV War BatnsrH
TECH 
Barber Shop
Complete service for Ladies 
and Gentlemen.
Carnegie Tech’s new literal^ maga­
zine is to be known as the Carnegie 
Quarterly, according to the decision 
reached by the staff last Wednesday 
at a meeting. This name was devised 
by staff members when it was found 
that none of the names submitted by 
the students in the competition were 
appropriate for the type of magazine 
planned. The adoption of the name 
Carnegie Quarterly automatically 
ended the title contest, with no one 
receiving the prize which had been 
offered.
Walter Brown Rogers was recently 
chosen as editor of the magazine and 
to him was left the responsibility or 
appointing a staff. He lias announced 
Margaret Russell as associate editor 
from Margaret Morrison and Harold 
Jacobson as associate editor from Fine 
Arts College. The representatives from 
the Industries and Engineering Col­
leges will be announced soon. A num­
ber of the position^ are as yet unfilled. 
All those Interested in securing posi­
tions should attend the meeting of 
the staff next Wednesday in room 106 
Arts. Building at 4:30.
The first issue of the new magazine 
will appear as the Spring Issue. The 
magazine is to be published four times 
a year, beginning with the 1928-1929 
school year.
Contributions for the magazine are 
solicited from the members of all col­
leges and classes. They should be 
sent to Walter Rogers, 5549 Forbes 
street, Pittsburgh. The magazine, in 
content, will consist of short stories, 
poetry and verse, plays, book reviews, 
and criticisms of literature, art and 
life. Technical articles also will make 
up a part of the contents. The variety 
and scope of the material offers an 
opportunity, for students in all four 
colleges to contribute to the magazine. 
Features that will interest artists, en­
gineers, cooks, seamstresses, scien­
tists and future executives will be in­
cluded among the articles printed. 
That the magazine will be representa­
tive of the needs and desires of all 
four colleges is assumed by the pres­
ence of an associate editor from each 
school on the editorial staff.
, The announcement that Carnegie Is 
to have a literary magazine has come 
after more than a year of tentative 
plans, meetings which failed to pro­
duce tangible results, and suggestion» 
which bore no fruit. That there is a 
need for such a magazine has long 
/been felt.
On six Saturday evenings during 
Lent, Dr. Charles Heinroth will lec­
ture on subjects of interest to music 
lovers. These lectures will replace 
the organ recitals which Dr. Heinroth 
has been giving each Saturday even­
ing at 8:15. The talks will be given 
in the Music Hall a.nd will be illus­
trated with selections played by Dr. 
Heinroth in his inimitable way on the 
organ and the piano.
In commemoration of the anniver­
sary .of Schubert’s death, Dr. Hein­
roth will devote his first two lectures 
to an appreciative discussion of the 
various works of that composer. The 
talks will be given at S: 15 on Febrü- 
ary 25 and March 3. Dr. Heinroth an­
nounces as the titles of these two lec­
tures “Schubert, a Young Centenar­
ian” and “Schubert, the Supreme Song 
Composer.”
On March 10 Dr. Heinroth will point 
out “Milestones in Musical History.” 
“Scandinavian Music’' will be the sub­
ject of his talk on March 17; while on 
March 24 Dr. Heinroth will lecture on 
“American Folk Music,” a topic sure 
to make a wide appeal. In his final 
talk oil March 31, this Pittsburgh 
musician will discuss “A Great French 
Symphony” (Caaesar Franck).
Dr. Heinroth's Saturday evening or­
gan recitals have a large following 
and when to his playing Dr. Heinroth 
adds his interpretations and explana­
tions of the selections, it is certain 
that the audience will be increased to 
a number far beyond the ordinary. 
These six Lenten talks, like Mr. I-Iein- 
roth’s musical programs, are open to 
the public and no admission price is 
charged.
4S31 Forbes Straet 
Near Craig
Mayflower 2838
ALL MAKES OF TYPEWRITERS, NEW AND USED 
SOLD—RENTED—REPAIRED
FORT PITT TYPEWRITER CO., Inc.
Royal Portable Distributors—COURT 1100 
Store No. 1 Store No. 2
428 FOURTH AVENUE SIXTH AND WOOD STREETS
NO PLACE FOR THE UNCONVEN 
TIONAL THINKER
Fassey Wool Hose -
Novelty stripes and plaids, very attractive patterns and bright colors. 
Just the kind students like to wear.
75c—$1.00—$1.50 PER PAIR
Aufhammer & Evans
HATTERS AND FURNISHERS 
6100 PENN AVENUE
At Sheridan Square Established 1872
DIFFERENCE
When you rent a tuxedo suit from us you 
rent tlie best.
Quality, Pit and Style. All sizes.
Special rates to students
WHITTINGTON DRESS SUIT CO.
6002-3-4 JENKINS ARCADE 
Day Phone Atlantic 9595 Night Phone Lafayette 4791-R
(Ohio State Lantern)
Most any time >now one can expect 
to see on the book shelves a new 
book entitled “Liberalism as It Does 
Not Exist on the College Campuses.”
Material 'for such a\ volume js 
rapidly increasing. The college cam­
pus, theoretically a site of intelli­
gence, is often nothing more than a 
hidebound conventional oasis of lip 
liberals.
The colleges preach liberalism as 
long as it does not reflect~in any way 
or put them in the spotlight, un­
favorably.
It is with refreshing hope that we 
notice that Grinnell College is per­
mitting Miss Agnes Maud Royden, 
English minister, to speak on the 
campus there. Miss Royden is re­
puted as believing in companionate 
marriages and as occasionally smok­
ing cigarettes.
She was barred from speaking at 
the University of Iowa and described 
as a lady with high ideas, but low 
ideals. As one of the ladies out there 
said, “students will admire her ^ for 
she. has a strong personality and is 
able to sway her audience. Admira­
tion will cause the susceptible girls 
of the university to ape the woman.” 
Poor things.
Kirby Page is another victim. 'Mr. 
Page is to all who have met him a 
harmless paclfiist. West Virginia 
University has prevented him from 
talking down there. Tt might be noted 
that a military man is In charge of 
the committee that brought about this 
ban.
That is to be expected of militarists, 
but how about Judge Lindsey, Miss 
Royden, and even Clarence Darrow? 
Undoubtedly the coach who resigned 
because of the coemption in attract­
ing players to his particular school is 
denied the right to talk at respectable 
universities.
WILBER SCOTT TO DIRECT
DOWNTOWN “Y" GLEE CLUBS
Wilbur A. Scott., the manager of the 
Men’s Glee Club of Carnegie, has been 
appointed the director for the newly 
organized Y. M. C. A. Gleo Club, com­
posed of members of the downtown 
branch. Scott, who is a senior in the 
Department of Music, is very active 
in the music circles of the campus, 
being a member of the Clef Club, hon­
orary music fraternity. He is also 
the composer of the newly written 
Carnegie' March” which has been 
very favorably received by the stu­
dents. The Y. M. C. A. Glee Club will 
be patterned after the best of the col­
lege glee clubs in the country and;un­
der the direction of Scott, Intend to ar­
range a schedule of concerts.
ADVERTISE AND GET RESULTS
AN IMPORTATION of BRITISH-MADE COATS
Downing 
English 
T oppers
*34
Undoubtedly the smartest thing in 
topcoats this spring will be the fa­
mous Englisf« raglans. With their 
unobtrusive nonchalance, there is 
a swagger that bespeaks the sua­
vity of the continent. We obtain­
ed these toppers direct from an Ox­
ford street tailor who, for years, 
has clothed British Gentlemen.
For your convenience, we have al­
located the men’s departments' on 
the Fifth Floor—and it is our pol­
icy that this floor be devoted ex­
clusively to men. Clothing, sport­
ing goods, robes, trousers, hats and 
shoes are all to be found here. The 
men’s furnishing department has 
retained its position inside the cor­
ner entrance of the main floor.
Elevator Near Sixth Avenue Door Direct to 
Men’s Store, Fifth Floor
TECHBa rbeShBbo
FORMERLY KAUFMANN €. BAER CO.
Sixth Ave. at Smithfield St. Phone Atlantic 4400
University of Wisconsin, February 
6.—(CNA)—A clock which» dictated 
the hours of study, and declared to bo 
the first mechanical contrivance of a 
pioneer in “efficiency exporting,” has 
been restored to its former condition.
It was 
to 1864. 
a certain
Wheel cut In two sections would col­
lapse and the book Muir was study­
ing would fall back Into Its stall 
through the collapsible top and an­
other book would bo pushed up to 
take its placo.
You’re only young once, but If you, 
work it right, onco Is enough.—Olla-
SEEK YE NO FURTHER, DIOGENES .
YPBN jobbie Diogenes was a Greek who left liis fruit stand for the commend­
able purpose of questing for honesty by good old-fashioned lamp-light. And 
now, loud and ever clearer, rings tlie cry from the housetops: “Diogenes — 
throw away your lantern . . . here’s an honest cigarette! Have a Camel!”
Camels have but one raison (V ctre—to pack the smoke-spots of the world 
with the “fill-fullment/ii every experienced smoker seeks. Fill your own 
smoke-spot iuith a cool cloud of Camel smolce, and hear it sing out— 
“Eureka!” (from the Greek, “Eureka,” meaning—“O£>oy, here *tis!”).
© 1928 R. J. REYNOLDS TOBACCO COMPANY, Winaton-Salem, N. C.

---------------------------------------------------

PAGE SIXTHE CARNEGIE TARTANTUESDAY, FEBRUARY 21, 1928
PLEBE SHOOTERS | Lippert Wins 1928 
DEFEAT M. I. T. N. R. A. Rifle Match
VARSITY RIFLEMEN 
WIN THREE MOREIntra-Mural League Standings
NATIONAL LEAGUE
Won. Lost. I
Theta XI ...................................................................... 2 0 1
Sigma Nu ..................................................................... 1 1 t
Sigma Alpha Epsilon.................................................. 1 1
Nu Delta Alpha ........................................................ 1 1
Kappa Sigma .............................................................. 1 1
Phi Kappa Psl ........................................................... 3 1
Henderson Hall .......................................................... 1 1
Welch Hall .................................................................. 0 2
Another week haB passed by and 
the Intra-Mural race Is becoming more 
interesting.
Varsity Rifleman Comes Out 
First in Nation Wide 
Competition
Kiski Riflemen Invade Car­
negie Range on Sat. 
Afternoon
Teams Busy Shooting 'R. O. 
T. C. Targetslin Addition to, 
xWeekly N. R. A. MatchesThe T. X. team won from the Sigma 
,2DO in a close game, on Monday 
night. Karels, Follansbee and Miller 
were the big guns of Theta Xi:Tom Lippert, varsity rifleman, has 
won the National Rifle Association’s 
individual prone "tyro” match for 
1928 according to reports received by 
Major John U. Taylor of the military 
department. This competition is con­
ducted yearly and is open to anyone- 
who lias never previously won an in­
dividual N. R. A.'award. Tlie entries, 
numbering 113, represented institu­
tions and colleges from coast to coastr 
as well as several army officers and 
professional men. The award is a sil­
ver medal and the honor.
Lippert’s score was 395 out of a 
possible 400, made in 40 shots prone. 
He used a Springfield .22 and Palma 
ammunition. An indication of the 
kind of competition Lippert faced sis 
shown in the report that the second 
man scored 394, and the third place 
winner shot 393.
Lippert is a sophomore in the De­
partment of Physics of the College of 
Engineer. He was a member of last 
year's plebe team and is president of 
the Rifle Club this year. Robert G. 
Martin, sophomore in Electrical En­
gineering, placed number 16 in the 
same competition, with a score of 388.
The plebe rifle team is doing very 
well this season. Last week they 
fired against two teams one of which 
did not telegraph a report. The other 
one was a three position match, stand­
ing position omitted, with Massa­
chusetts Institute of Technology, 
the score was 1,281 to 1,326, making 
the plebe riflemen easy winners.
The Carnegie lineup for this match 
was as follows:
Cole .................................. 270
Center .............................. 268
Marshall .......................... 267
Anderson ................... 2{51
McKlveen ....................... 260
There are great 'quantities of smoke 
and flying lead down in the basement 
of Margaret Morrison with the varsi­
ty, women’s and freshmen rifle teams 
busily shooting off the most Impor­
tant matches of the season. The 
varsity are about half through their 
season, which stretches over ’some 
seven school months; the longest sea­
son of any sport.
Yast week the varsity team com­
peted with seven other colleges. Only 
one set of targets were fired and the 
total scores were telegraphed to the 
respective competitors. Of these 
soven matches Carlisle won * three, 
lost tow and two schools did not tele­
graph a score.
Carnegie was victor over Massa­
chusetts Agricultural College in a 
four position match, the score was«
1,646 to 1,737. The other matches 
won were of only three'positions, sit­
ting position being omitted. The 
schools triumphed over were Amherst 
and Gettysburg Colleges who had a 
score of 1,196 and 1,274 respectively; 
our score was 1,284. Gettysburg was 
the team competing with us this week 
In the N. R. A. League.
Some of the pleasure is taken oilt 
of these victories when the Virginia 
Military Institute and the University 
of Kansas defeats are recorded with 
scores of 1,760 and 1,803 against the 
Carnegie total of 1,737.
Following Is the Carnegie lineup in 
the four position matches:
Kasehagen ...................... 364
Bronson .......................... 347
Fisher, A. M..................... 343
Lippert .......................... . 342
Weatherell ..................... 341
The S. A. E.’s lost in a hard strug­
gle with Honderson Hall. The main 
reason for the defeat was poor team 
work.
AMERICAN LEAGUE
Won.
Beta Sigma Rho .
Phi Kappa ...........
Scobell Hall ........
Delta Upsilon 
Beta Theta Pi 
Pi Kappa Alpha .. 
Alpha Tau Omega 
Kappa Sigma Rho
The Phi Slg/s won a hard fought 
gamo from 'Delta Tau Delta. Line 
was the crack shot on the Phi Slg. 
team.
The Beta Sigma Rho’s came through 
with a victory over the Pi K. A.’s. 
Cohn did some excellent work for 
Beta Sigma Rho, while Smith played 
a good game for Pi K. A.
FEDERAL LEAGUE
Won.
McGill Hall ..........
Phi Sigma Kappa Delta Tau Delta .. 
Alpha Sigma Phi 
Delta Phi Delta ..
Boss Hall ............
Sigma Phi Epsilon 
Delta Mu ..............
The Phi Kap.'s disposed of the D. 
U.'s after four hard-fought periods in 
what proved to be one of the best en­
counters of the week.
Total ..............................1,326
This week the plebes are shooting 
three matches; a prone match with 
Central High School, Washington, D.
C. a prone and sitting match with 
West Virginia, and a prone and kneel­
ing match with the University of Del­
aware. However only one set of tar­
gets will be fired and the respective 
score for each match. will be tele­
graphed to each opponent. At the 
present time the freshmen are prac­
tising on their standing position in 
order to get into shape for their four 
position matches which are sched- 
oled to begin within several weeks.
Saturday afternoon the plebes shoot 
off a shoulder to shoulder match with 
Kiski. Kiski has a very good team 
but the plebes have settled down to 
hard practise and should find it rather 
easy to down the upriver prep school. 
The freshman team last downed them 
easily but last year was an exception- 
ly good plebe team. However despite 
the fact that this year’s team is not 
quite so good they are above the av­
erage and have had no difficulty in 
winning the opening matches of the 
season. Nevertheless they have the 
hardest part of the season ahead of 
them with a number of good teams op­
posing them in four positions.
The Beta's got started in the Amer­
ican League, winning over Kappa Sig­
ma Rho easily.
bold, Hamilton for Vogelwedd, Smith 
for Moynihan. Carnegie Tech, Brown 
for Crum, Crum for Brown, Brown for 
White, Kilgore for Crum, Letzelter for 
Brown.
Field goals—Notre Dame: Newbold
2, McCarthy 4, Vogelwedd 3, Bray -2, 
Copps 1. Carnegie Tech: Crum,
White 2, High.
Fouls — Notre Dame, 7 out of 14. 
Newbold, 3 out out of 3; McCarthy, 
1 out of 3; Hamilton, 3 out of 3; 
Copps, 1 out of 2; S'mith, 0 put of 1. 
Carnegie Tech, 11 out of 15. Crum,
3 out of 4; White, 2 out of 3; Harp- 
ster, 1 out of 1; High, 2 out of 2; 
Hitchcock, 3 out of 5.
Referee—Fred Young, Chicago. Um­
pire—Cal Bolster, Pittsburgh.
Time of halves—20 minutes.
PLAID FLOORMEN
GIVE GENEVA AND
IRISH CLOSE RUN
Boss Hall suffered a defeat from 
Alpha Sigma Phi. Daum played well 
for the Greeks.
(Continued From Page One.) 
tied it up on field goals and Newbold 
again and, with McCarthay, ran it up 
to 8-4. A long one by High and a 
successful throw by White brought 
the count up to 8-7 at the half. Not 
even this close score could squeeze 
enthusiasnl out of the students; no 
cheer leaders did their stuff and the 
band was conspicuous in its absence, 
outcome Doubtful.
The Plaid floormen repeated the 
same performance as in the Geneva 
game by dropping off slowly but sure­
ly^ in the second period. The crowd 
worked up into a frenzy as frantic ef­
forts were made by White, Hitchcock 
and High to stop the Irish, and the 
final score was rather doubtful with 
one minute to go. The South Benders 
were slow, extremely slow, and were 
only saved through their tenacious 
defense and tricky, bewildering of 
fonse. They took many a crack at 
the basket but most of them were fu­
tile attempts, at their best, much to 
the joy of the Carnegie rooters.
Tomorrow night the renowned Gol­
den Panthers invade the Carnegie gym 
to play off the final of the three-game 
series. The spectators are not prom­
ised a victory, a victory is not even 
suggested, but a first class game, 
well worth any one’s time to watch, is 
promised. If any bets could be picked 
up on Carnefie (t wouldn't be a bad 
financial policy to snap them up. Fri­
day the Mountaineers descend from 
their perch; the Tartans succeeded in 
holding them rather close at the open­
ing of the season, as for Friday; who 
can tell? no promises are made.
The lineup:
Geneva—34. Car. Tech—28.
Rubonstein (C) . ,F.................... Crum
Friedman ............F.............. 'Harpster
Lyons ........;.........C.......................Bond
Klmorlek ..............G............. Hitchcock
Duncan .................G............ (C) White
Score by periods:
McGill Hall won their second game 
of the season in a contest with the 
Sf P. E.’s. Rlkoski again showed up 
well.
Delta Phi Delta easily annexed a 
game from Delta Mu.
Morning (Dr. Mason) 
“The Conflict, the Individual 
and the Community.The Phi Psi’s and Welch Hall had 
a close contest on Friday evening. 
The Greek letter men finally succeed­
ed in downing the dorm men.Evening (Dr. Smith)
Our Criminals; Who and What
, Los Angeles—(IP)—Undergradu­
ates at the University of California at 
Los Angeles are tired of copying their 
northern kin at Berkeley. So they 
have decided to throw out of their 
“pep” curriculum all songs and yells 
which have been borrowed from the 
University of California proper.
A student committee is noW at work 
on the problem of new verses for 
songs and new yells which will be 
strictly Bruin products. Among 
other suggestions of note is one that 
a composer be employed to write the 
music for a new alma mater song and 
rally chorus.
Scobell Hall retained their reputa­
tion of last week by winning from A. 
T. O. Again Muse and Bittner star­
red.The important match of the coming 
week Is with the University of Pennsyl­
vania. This is a crack team but if 
the Carnegie riflemen display their 
usual ability they can beat them. So 
far during the season the team has 
been doing -poorer work than they are 
really capable of, as they have been 
handicapped a great deal by new 
rules on the standing position and by 
new and much smaller targets.
In addition to-the regular intercol­
legiate matches there are several R. 
O. T. C. matches, and as most of the 
vnrally members belong to the R. O. 
T. C. it moans much additional work 
as two sets of targets must bo fired 
Instead of one. Last week the It. O.
C. team finished the third- corps 
area match of four stages. Next week 
this team will bo busy shooting the 
famous William Randolph I-Ieast 
trophy match. This Is the most im­
portant R. O. T. C, match of the soa- 
son and its victory would mean nation 
wide notoriety for the Carnegie team 
an well as handsome gold shields for 
the toam members,
The Kappa Slg.’s with Flanagan, 
Allen and Leslie won easily from the 
non-degree men of Miller Hall.
THI8 WEEK’S SCHEDULE 
Tuesday, February 21', 1928.
Theta XI vs. Welch Hall—8:30.
Nu Dolta Alpha vs. Sigma Alpha 
Epsilon—8:80.
Scobell Hall vs. Beta Sigma Rho, 
—7:80,
Dolta Phi Delta vs. ‘McGill Hall— 
7:30.
University of Denver. — Under the 
headline
DENTS MUST PUNCH
TIME CLOCK WHEN
THEY TAKE SMOKE 
the Denver Clarion prints a pitiful ar­
ticle on the plight of the dental stu­
dent at University of Denver. Now 
they have a time-clock regulation, un­
der the rigors of which all students 
are required to ring out if they leave 
the building for any length of time at 
all. One month’s suspension follows 
failure to check out on the time clock. 
Another stringent rule states that a 
dental student arriving even one min­
ute late must .lose the entire credit 
for the hour. A third, to complete 
this article but by no means the dents’ 
distress, an attendance record of at 
least. 85 per cent of the required 
hours’ work must be indicated on the 
individual time cards.
Vhat ¿Príee—wo mors
Moscow, Idaho.— (IP)—All students 
at the University of Idaho who have 
maintained an average of 5.000 or bet­
ter during the pr6vious semester, will 
henceforth be allowed to cut classes 
without loss of credit hours. The new 
regulation is to be withdrawn at any 
time it becomes evident it is being 
misused.
Thursday, February 23, 1928.
Honderson Hall vs. Kappa Sigma, 
7:30.
Alpha Tau Omoga vs. Pi Kappa 
Alpha—8:30.
Beta Theta PI vs. Delta Upsilon— 
8:30.
Dolta Tau Delta vs. Boss Hall 
7:80.
Is all you need to pay for 
the world's finest pen!
Here’s the world’s M}j|ji|£ 
easiest writer due to Par- ll Ural 
ker Pressureless Touch ! j I 3 
A fine ink channel ground "pi
between the prongs of j A
the point brings capillary 191
attraction to the aid of F:|
gravity feed, causing an \ n
immediate and steady ink j I
flow at touch of point to ! !; ¦ !
paper. No pressure from 'j |
the fingers. The light I M
weight of the pen itself ij fyl 
is sufficient. I'jlljl
Here, too, is Parker N |
Permanite Material — jj|| !
28% lighter than the 
rubber formerly used, yet |rtjl[li] 
. 100 times as strong. ¦ “; \
I^arker Precision in I j 
manufacture still further J \ 
insures accuracy. \
• 5 flashing colors, 3 sizes II Tjjj \ 
ofpsn barrels, 6 graduated j|| i»j % 
; points, leave nothing to j 'j {jjii f? 
be desired in a fountain | |0
oenafaxjy price. 1 ¡1 3
So pay $5 or $7 only to 11; J {] 
get a permanently satis- jij! | i! 
factory pen.
Pencils to match Pens, || I j 
$3, $3.50, $4.
Be careful to get the IjJlllHI 
genuine. You’ll know it 
by the imprint, “Geo. S. \™ifp
Parker-DUOFOLD.” HHj
THE PARKER PEN COMPANY
JANESVILLE, W1S. IP™
Minneapolis, Mill. — (IP)—In order 
that everyone 011 the campus may en­
joy winter sports, regardless of ex­
pense, the athletic' department of the 
University of Minnesota has pur­
chased 12 toboggans and 50 pair of 
sldis, which the Students may rent for 
a small sum each afternoon and even­
ing.
Snturdny, February 25, 1928.
Phi JCnppa 8PV MPH Sigma Nu -3:80. 
Phi Kappa vu. Kappa Sigma RI10,Cambridge, Mass. (IP) American 
college students begin active life ivoiic 
entirely too late, according to Dr. A. 
Lawrence Lowell,- president of Har­
vard University.
"American secondary schools,” I10 
says In his annual report to the Har­
vard Board oft Overseers', “do not com­
plete the secondary teaching that 
ought to bo done at the age our young 
men come to college. The result is 
that with the preparation now re­
quired for professional and business 
llfe--much longer than it was for­
merly..-the young man does not begin
his active career until a later age than 
is. wise. An artisan at the age of 20 
may be earniiig as large an income, 
and be as well able to support -a 
family, as he ever will be; but his 
contemporary who is looking forward 
to the bar ¦ or to medicine, for ex­
ample, is only half way through col­
lege at that time. The ordinary age 
of entering an American college is 
over IS, so that if the young man com­
pletes his four years before beginning 
his professional studies he is over 22 
at graduation.’.’
* President Lowell went on to explain 
that it is a fallacy to believe that 
sending a boy to college at the age 
of 17 is to make him at a disad­
vantage socially and athletically. He 
said that to wait a year after high 
school graduation before entering col­
lege is a mistake.
Waxes Poetic 
Over Favoriie 
Tobacco
Alpha Sigma Phi vs, Phi Sigma 
G Kappa - 3:30.
Sigma Phi Epsilon vs. Delta Mu...
Substitutions — Tech: Bond for
Crum, Crum for Bond, Bond for 
Brown, Brown for Crum. Geneva: 
Morriman for Duncan, Bruce for Ly­
ons.
Field goals—Tech: White 5, Brown
4, Bond, Hitchcock, Harpster, Crum. 
Geneva: Friendman 5, Lyons 2, Mer- 
riman 3, Bruce 2, Rubenstein.
Fouls — Tech: Crum, 1 out of 2;
Hitchcock, none out of 1; Brown, 1 
out of 2. . Geneva: Rubenstein, 5 out 
of 6; Friedman, 1 out of 2; Emericli,
I out of 1; Bruce, 1 out of 1.
Team fouls—Geneva, S out of 10;
Tech, 2 out of 5.
Leading scorer—Friedman, Geneva,
II points.
Time of periods, 20 minutes. 
Referee—A1 Slack.
Umpire—Dan Brickley.
LEARN TO DANCEThe gamps scheduled lor Monday 
night were postponed until Saturday, 
February 25, because of the Benofit 
Theater performance at the Alvin 
Theater. The games scheduled for 
7:30 will be played at 2:30 and the 
8:30 games at 3:30.
11A Prescription”
Have you ever noticed 
1 right after a meal 
1 How tired and lazy you always feel? 1 
I’m telling you folks it isn’t a joke,It will freshen you upif you try a good smoke.But whatever you dothese lines you must heed, 
There’s a certain tobacco I of course, that you need.
It’s packed in a tin,the tin’s colordd blue.
Not only the smokingbut the chewing kind too.
Of course if you neverare bothered this way,Just keep the prescription for some other day.
Ask for tobacco,the best that’s on earth;
To shorten the story,just call it “Edgeworth.” 
Chas. J. Butler Owensboro, Ky.
Feb. 2, 1927
Edgeworth
Extra High Grade
Smoking Tobacco
CRAIG AND FORBES STREETS 
In the Heart of Tech and Pitt
Beginners Monday and Friday 
Evenings. Advanced, Thursday and 
Saturday Evenings.. Private lessons 
by appointment.
Mayflower 7891
LAST WEEK’S SCORES 
National League—
Theta Xi ..............................1
Sigma Nu ............................3
Stretching Your Income
Only through careful, system­
atic and efficient handling of 
your funds can you make the 
most of your income.
The officers of this bank take 
a personal pride in promoting 
the financial welfare of custom­
ers and are ever ready to assist 
in the solution of their financial 
problems.
Your savings and checking ao- 
counts, even though small, are 
welcome here.
Capital and Surplus 
$17,500,000
Henderson Hall .... 
Sigma Alpha Epsilon
Phi Kappa Psi 
Welch Hall ..
Kappa Sigma . 
Nu Delta AlphaCar. Tech—-19.
................ Crum
........ (C) White
........... Harpster
................. Hugh
..... Hitchcock
Notre Dame—31.
Newbold ...........F
McCarthy ........F
Vogelwedd ....... C,
Moynihan (A.C.) .G
Bra»*.......................G
Score by periods:
American League—
Beta Sigma RI10 
Pi Kappa Alpha
Phi Kappa .. 
Delta Upsilon
Notre Dame 
Carnegie ..Duofold Jr.
Over-size $7 Lady Duofold $5
Beta Theta Pi ... 
Kappa .Sigma RhoSubstitutions—Notre Dame: Copps 
for Vogelwedd, Vogelwedd for Copps, 
CoppB for McCarthy, Crowe for Copps, 
O’Donovan for Bray, Jachem for New-
Over-size $7 Lady Duofold $5
Any considerate' motorist will give 
a co-ed half of the road if he knows 
which half she wants.—(OCNA).
Scoboll Hall .... 
Alpha Tau Omoga
By FRANK REILLYFederal League—
Phi Sigma Kappa 
Delta Tau Delta .
That Explains Everything
V "01 IS SCHOOL. OOaT 
Can’t suriifA r 
apdr.kic»aTu me \ I
I HEAP. ThaT 
I MAvJts EMiE.Nl 
WA1VU.D OUT 
OF TVlE. GLEE.cLoe> n—rr~
Alplia Sigma Phi 
Boss Hall ............‘ Tis L- TrvjuW 
FIN rUMBoSo 
VoO R.SEL.F CHÜOöV - (Wow ^A 
LRG EM HAPPEN ?
McGill I-Iall ..........
Sigma Phi Epsilon
Delta Phi Delta 
Delta. Mu ........
McGill University — The McGill 
Choral nn Operatic Society presented 
recently the operetta “Iolanthe.” “The 
best amateur show ever staged in Mon­
treal," “a brilliant effort,” “a play 
which uncovered exceptional merit” 
were some of the remarks garnered 
from the crowd of critics as they left.

---------------------------------------------------

TUESDAY, FEBRUARY 21, 1928THE CARNEGIE TARTANPAGE SEVEN
y SKE TLD NCLU
THAT THAT 
ARTIST WHO 
FAIMTSD OUR 
¦PICTURE LAST 
Ysar MARRIED 
ThS GIRL WHO 
U5£D To POSE , FoR. HIM ? j
WEU_, - '
That maK£S 
hi^a a I 
EWOXhi t 
HU £ BAND I
IA/SLL, | CAN 
GO LOT.S OF 
PLACES WITH­
OUT MY VNIFE
Ti5L<_ MET(
WHICH Do
You svea 
dUPRg .HJT 
LAMU HT .HJT 
rTHJPUTP Y
r IN 'Pl/LLMAW 
|I_l'NOI5.
I CAM'T You 
SEE MY 7 
0ERTHIHARKJ
WHERE WERE 
Yo«J SoRN IOGCN
H$G1.2 AG25P
The SU7EDES 
•JmoKE HERRING 
ApuP The 
IKAUf/HN’fT
WCLNA LYVE 
WFl-DS >
VöU v3A,Y You
UerowGoY OC rrn
HOUSE L^ST 
MI ÊKT T WELL 
1A/HV DlDNJ’T 
Come. inJ;
RAO$Ga2 TLD oGC
(ELL. l HE
X)IFFEREMCE 
BET"i/~/1=EnJ A JlUeDe: AMD ANJ
- DCaBchDi ylo
MAYBE 
alksiUA 
GOInJö Tt? 
MA^t f^lKJ<SS 
ög/t of ' Em
MJmDER. \XJh\Y ALL-
r,U JevA^ELGRs 
ETU1 euYiMcs 3o 
CESy. HGR9 NHGIP2
On the Plaid Screen
BY FREDERICK D. WOODS
; WOMEN’S RIFLE TEAM 
| WINS FROM OKLAHOMA 
AND LOSES TO NEVADA
The varsity basket ball team continued its losing streak during the past j 
week, giving Geneva a good run for its money, but providing little opposition : 
to Notre Dame’s classy quint. The team reversed its usual procedure in the ; 
game with the Covenanters, display a very good offense in the first half, one ! 
which gave every Carnegie rooter present visions of victory, only to slow up ; 
in the final frame while Geneva continued its steady pace. Undoubtedly, 
Carnegie should have won this game.
The Friday game, with Notre Dame, was a different proposition. The 
Fightin’ Irish were a well-coached, well conditioned outfit, and completely 
outplayed Carnegie. Captain White and his mates made a valiant stand 
against the visitors, but the superior technique and experience of the latter 
'was too much for them.*******
Pitt’s undefeated team will meet Carnegie on the local, floor tomorrow 
night, in the third and final game of the year’s series. Even the most ardent 
Carnegie student has few hopes of a victory over the Panther; but all are 
hoping that the team will display the basket ball of which it is really capable, 
and give our hillside neighbors something to worry about.
The West Virginia game, carded for Friday night, and the final game of 
the season, with Wash-Jeff, on the following Wednesday, are the two remain­
ing possibilities for a victory. Both of these teams have taken Carnegie into 
camp on their own floors, and are eager to eke out seasons which have been 
anything but productive of victories, by winning here. Man for man, the 
Skibos are the equal of these two teams, but the Plaid must show same 
semblance of college-type team work if the games are to be won.*******
Fred Young of Chicago, well known Big Ten Conference basket ball 
official, refereed the Carnegie-Notri Dame and Pitt-Notre Dame games last 
week. His work afforded an interesting contrast to that of floor officials 
of this section, which, they themselves modestly admit, are the best in the 
country.
As far as we were able to observe, the Carnegie game was well-handled. 
Personal fouls were called about the same as local arbiters are wont to call 
them, the only outstanding difference being on running with the ball, which 
was frequently done and rarely called.* * * * * * *
Fouls, by the way, spelled defeat for the South Benders in their battle 
with Pitt, the latter team garnering but four field goals to the Irish’s eight, 
but sinking sixteen foul goals for the winning total. Too, Pitt's winning rally 
started after two Notre Dame men had been ejected from the game via the 
personal- foul route.*******
The Intra-Mural basket ball games scheduled for last night were post­
poned to the coming Saturday on account of the Women’s scholarship fund 
theater benefit at the Alvin.*******
The plebe .swimming team came within a hair’s breadth of breaking. the 
losing record which Carnegie teams have established in winter sports, losing 
to Peabody High 27 to 24 last Saturday, the final event deciding the meet. *******
Tom Lippert, promising sophomore rifleman, won the national prone 
“tyro” match recently conducted, with a score of 395 out of a possible 400. 
He competed against 112 men from other schools.
Hanover, N. H — (IP) — Evening | lights. The pond is lighted from 7 
skating on Occom Pond for Dartmouth j to 10 every evening the ice is good.
students has been made possible by------------------------------
the erection of several huge floor | University of Rochester.—King Ed­
ward of England is the man responsi­
ble for the rigid social custom that 
men’s trousers must always be creased 
down the front.
CONTRIBS
CONCERNING PLEBE 
REGULATIONS
February 16, 1928. 
Editor the Carnegie Tartan,
Carnegie Tech.:
Dear Sir—Scattered through the 
Tartan of February 14 are several in­
dictments of the class of 1930 for their 
failure to enforce Plebe regulations. 
The Sophomores are called cowards, 
shirkers, and are characterized as be­
ing either lazy or big-hearted. None 
of these arraignments are accurate, 
however. The Sophs are merely in­
different.
Regulations the first semester are 
interesting. It is fun to enforce them; 
the Plebes need a set down from their 
exalted ideas of themselves that they 
have acquired a prep schools. With 
the passing of time, nevertheless, reg­
ulations become boresome. Freshman 
faces ar.e familiar, friendships are 
established, and it is no longer amus­
ing or diverting to yell, “Hey, Plebe, 
where’s your dink? What’s your 
name?”
One solution to this problem may 
be found in shortening the duration of 
regulations. If they were ended hon­
orably . before the thanksgiving holi­
day or the Christmas vacation, there 
is a much greater (possibility that they 
would be more effectively enforced 
during their legal lifetime. Present 
half-hearted enforcement might give 
way to rigid adherence to the rules 
while they were in effect.
A discussion of this measure by any­
one interested, through the - columns 
of the Tartan, might be invited.
Yours truly,
JANET ADLER,
M. M. Soph.
THE PLEBE PROBLEM.
Alter a semester of apparent blind­
ness, the campus citizens have at last 
been admitted to the light. They have
: . •
CATERING
DEPENDABLE FOR CLASS
----and----
FRATERNITY AFFAIRS
Service that is distinctively 
appropriate. Complete Menu if desired or merely Cakes, Ice 
Cream and Pastry. Estimates on request.
STORE SERVICE 
Cakes—Pastries—Ice Creams— 
Ices—Bread and Candies ideally 
made and sold at reasonable 
prices. Phone orders—no charge 
for city delivery.
Table and Fountain 
Luncheon Service.
Store hours: 8 A.M. to 11:30 P.M.
FHnA
9ilcG(ementi Go- 
CATERERSSHADY A.1D PESNAVE-. PITTSBURGH
discovered that Plebe regulations, are 
not being enforced as they should be. 
Their righteous wrath has taken the 
form of caustic editorials and ancient, 
but appropriate cartoons.
To say that regulations is the prob­
lem of the Sophomores is going a lit­
tle too far. The Sophomores are re­
sponsible for their enforcement; the 
problem is Carnegie’s. So far this 
year, the upperclassmen, and particu­
larly the governing bodies, have taken 
the alteration of regulations into their 
own hands, without a semblance of co­
operation with the executors of the 
law. They have gone steadily ahead, 
showing very little .forethought, and 
being more careful of their politics 
than of their policies.
Let us consider for a moment the 
reason for exempting forty of the 
class leaders, the Freshman football 
squad. The fact that they won all of 
their games is indeed commendable, 
but not unprecedented. To presume 
that they worked harder than any 
Freshman team ever did before is 
ridiculous. The fact remains, that the 
exemptions were given, which could 
not fail to arouse jealousy and re­
bellion among the remainder of tne 
Freshman Class.
Exemptions have not stopped at the 
football team. Men who have attend­
ed another college one year — to a 
minimum of three-quarters of an hour 
—have also received the coveted card. 
Sickness is another valid excuse. 
Anything from homesickness to lum­
bago is sufficient excuse for the'issu- 
ance of an exemption. Is it any won­
der the Plebes laugh at regulations 
when a single sneeze, in front of the 
proper authorities is sufficient to gain 
immunity from the trials of wearing 
a black tie?
The Sophomores have not enforced 
regulations as they should, but it must 
be remembered that unusual and un­
precedented obstacles have arisen 
this. year. The diversity of opinion as 
to whether Carnegie should or should 
not have Plebe regulations is possibly 
the reason for the- recent tempest. 
The element that wishes to do away 
with regulations has slowly gained 
ground, but there must be someone for 
the opposition to vent their wrath 
upon. At present the Sophomore class 
is “holding the bag.”
T. A. B.
POOR SPORTSMANSHIP
Not very many years ago, the stu­
dent body of a well-known Schenley 
Park institution was credited with 
good-sportsmaAship and fair dealing. 
Whether then won or lost, visiting 
teams were accorded the courteous 
and considerate treatment expected 
of gentlemen for their guests. Skill 
was acknowledged; an occasional mis- 
play was ignored.
A chance wittness of some of Car­
negie’s more recent encounters with 
representatives of other schools might 
certainly be pardoned if he expressed 
disbelief that such conditions once 
existed. The Case in point is the con­
duct of some of the spectators at the 
basketball game with Geneva last 
Wednesday evening. The booing and 
hissing of the Geneva team— a tetfm 
which always plays a clean, hard 
game—will remain forever a blot on 
Carnegie’s fair name.
A partial explanation may lie in 
the failure of the Sophomores to en­
force Plebe regulations. The teach­
ing of the Carnegie code of sports­
manlike conduct cannot be left to di-
Fire First Stage of National Rifle 
Association Inter-Colle- 
giate Match.
The women's rifle team emerged 
from the fray last week with one vic­
tory and one defeat, the defeat being 
the first one of the season. Carnegie's 
score in the Oklahoma Agricultural 
and Mechanical College match was 
4S9 against hr opponent’s score of 
4S1. In the other match, the Univer­
sity of Nevada ran up 48S points to 
Carnegie’s 4S3.
The targehts fired in these two 
matches counted also in the first 
stage of the N. R. A. intercollegiate 
match which is being fired in three 
stages. The second stage was com- 
pleaed last Saturday. Drexel Insti­
tute and the University of Delaware 
being fired against at the same time. 
The results of these last two matches 
are not yet knuown.
Individual scoring against Oklaho­
ma was as follows:
Katherine Collins .................... 99
Alice Bright ............................. 98
Helen Bright ............................. 98
Katherine O’Donnell .............. 97
Helen Whitehill ..................... 97
The scores against Nevada were: j
Alice Bright ............................. 98
Helen Bright ............................ 98
Katherine Boyd ....................... 96
Dorothy Roy .............................96
Carolyn Shults ......................... 95
Montreal, Que.—(IP)—Thomas Har 
dy’s Jude the Obscure” published in 
1895, was nearly suppressed, accord­
ing to Miss J. G. Sime, Montreal au­
thor and essayist, who compared his 
early reception with his burial in 
Westminster Abbey, in a talk before 
students of McGill university.
vine intervention. The most success­
ful method yet found for instilling its 
principles is the strict enforcement of 
Plebe regulations. Some friendly ad­
vice to erring Freshmen, punctuated 
with the blows of a paddle, would no 
doubt reduce the number of offenses 
against good conduct at inter-collegi­
ate engagements.
Unfortunately, all of the offenders 
at the Geneva contest were by no 
means Freshmen or outsiders; many 
of them were upper classmen. For 
them, there cannot bo the excuse of 
ignorance. Their conduct is indefen­
sible and inexcusable.
Booing and hissing, catcalls and the 
like cannot be entirely eliminated. 
Some few are certain to be found in 
any large audience whose conception 
of proper conduct is rather vague. 
But the student body as a whole, and 
particularly the upper - classmen, 
should so conduct themselves as to 
discourage a re-occurrence of last 
Wednesday's disgrace.
PITTSBURGH
Bids You To Its
79™ BIRTHDAY 
CELEERATICN
Beginning Wednesday,
FEBRUARY 22nd
and continuing until February 29.
M
ORE than a million dollars 
worth of wanted, new, spring 
merchandise, representative of 
good style and good taste, will be 
offered at prices which will not 
be matched the rest of the year.
Frank and ErnestBy BRIGGS
rindPILO G OK21DOU y&JG2A 
$AD1e 1$A ULOYE.2 ULO21 
oLCAE5 1AGC.P H$A5 ULON 
wmue You SLEEP !
I CouLDkJ T. 
Tue COP 
UG2 OKJ$1 
rxtk,S MB
Old WHGI7he Smoother and Better Cigarette 
? ??? not a cough in a carload
© 1928, P, Lorillard Co,, Est. 1760

---------------------------------------------------

PAGE EIGHTTHE CARNEGIE TARTANTUESDAY, FEBRUARY 21, 1928
Tartan
PHONE MAYFLOWER 2000 
Publlnhcd one« every week during the colloco 
year by uadorgrnduateH of Garno¿lo Iniitltuto of Technology, Entered In tlie Plttnburgh 
Pont Offlc« mi iiccond-clafiii matter.
EDITORIAL STAFF
Editor-In-Chief .....................Fenton Finn
Managing Editor.................Milton Cohen
News Editor...........Margaret RusHell I
Athletic Editor................'..Fred Wood»!
Women'« Editor......................Jean Roy J
Alumni Editor...................Herbert Crau i
EXCHANGE EDITORS 
Josephine Clark Florence McLaughlin j 
CONTRIBUTING EDITORSRussell Bulllnger A. Ifl. FI «her 
John Sclinieder 
Helen Reed
Sara E.
William Rose 
E. Weaver Meredith Stump 
Nathan Miller 
Wonders 
JUNIOR EDltORS 
S. C. Ralston Harold Jacobson
Dorothy Roy William McNeill '
REPORTERS H. L. Bunker, Jr. Ina 1-Iansell
E. Jarema
T. Lippert 
W. W. Hay 
C. Park J. .1. Boyle 
II. N. Meixner 
J. Carpe H. Levinson 
J. W- Eason II. Booth 
M. Echels 
N. Kline 
W. H. Worland 
W. II. MartsolC 
G. M. Wilson 
L. I. Shusset A. G. Allen
BUSINESS STAFF 
Business Manager.. .Shelby McMillion
Advertising Manager........J. H. Seibert
Assistants— R. Weln;le
T. R. Zenc D. H. .Genter
W. M. Crosby
CIRCULATION STAFF 
Cir.éulation Manager. .Harold Kandell 
Assistants—
E. ßchlesinger I
B. Kann
J. H. McAteer
C. Boyd
K. (^Donnell 
R. Bramson 
H. Whitehill 
R. Barr 
A. M. Fisher 
J. E. White 
M. B. Maze 
C. R. Nelson C. F. Afkpnheil 
A. F. Phillips 
W. L. Myers
G. Brahmst J. Roth
G. C. I-Iarbison 
G. Thompson 
B. Wedner A. Teplltz 
M. Malinicli 
R. W. Carter 
S. A. Bontonarl
A. Frank 
A. HaynesC. E. Blass 
S. Bluestone I. Levin
S. Feigenbaum J. P. Jones
D. Seville ’
Office—Room 12, Induntriee Building. Òfllco 
Hourii—Monday to ThurHdayH, 12:80-1:20 
Paikir made up Friday, 12:30-G :00.
To Iniiure publication on the Huccecdinpr 
Tucfldny, new« Itema munti be In the etudont pout olHce or Tartan O/Ilce before <1:30 Tliurii- 
day.
.After Ofíleo Hourii call Schenley , 141)0, 
Schenley 1)84<5. Schenley 0211.All editorials which are Initiated 
are contributed by persons, othör than 
the editor, uniniated editorials are 
those by the editor.
CAMPUS WEEK
'Phe bld order stili holds. After I 
mutili confuslon and alami thè animai I 
oveiit Canvpus Weelc was snved l’rom I 
il; premature deatli. ,
The commltteo in clmrge lias beon 
approvd, in puri., by thè studont coun-1 
eli, and thè renminder of thè noces- 
sary persons wlll have beQii uppolnted | 
Wlthin tho next weolc or two. The 
còinmjttoe has a capable chairman and 
ovorytihlng poliiI.h l:o a Campus Weelc 
timi: Wil 1 ho uh good, il’ noi; hotter, tlian 
l.hf so, whloh have procodod, The 
hofr<J,y cn-oponil,l<m ol! tho BtlldoittB 
wilh »e tho docldlng l’nctor l’or tho 
sudo, ih and connoti non tly tho contin­
uano , Or an ovont whloh has holpod Lo 
multò: ilio ut Carnoglo sbnieìhlng hot- j 
tor (mtn a humdrum o^ìstonco of i 
hooltH, booIcH, hooks. May tho ovont | 
ho a Jsuócobh und ii mliostoiió In Cur- ! 
poglo s tnulltlonal trail.
tial to some lines of Engineering. It 
is certain that the number of special­
ized studies cannot be curtailed, and 
that most of the fundamentals are ab­
solutely essential. The only possi­
bility, it would appeal1, is mathemat­
ics. Most Engineers are not particu­
larly interested in the pure form of 
scientific research, for these—and they 
comprise the greater majority—six 
semosters of mathematics are ex­
cessive, as far as any practical value 
is concerned.
The JU'Hi four semesters are of 
course an absolute necessity and form 
much of the background for other En­
gineering fundamentals. However, 
the fifth semester Is of value, primari­
ly, to research workers only. It of 
coursé is an important mind trainer, 
but here arises the question as to 
whether the additional mental train­
ing would be of more value to an En­
gineer than the broader and more gen­
eral training in English or related 
subjects would be. The same reason­
ing will apply in the ease of the sixth 
semester of mathematics.
It seems lamentable that men 
should be graduated from college with 
but one year of English. With such 
a meagre background it would be 
strange if many of them did not have 
difficulty in composing a good letter, 
or in writing a report', in fact, in car­
rying on an intelligent conversation 
on any subject other than the partic­
ular science in which they are inter­
ested.
Hence the only opportunity for an 
improvement that would remedy the 
apparent weakness seems to be an 
elimination of the courses in C-5 and 
C-G, and a substitution in their places 
of a good course in Business English 
or its equivalent.
It would harTlly be expected that a 
move of this sort could be effected ,at 
Carnegie for several years, while the 
present attitude of the authorities to­
ward the importance of mathematics 
prevails, however, it will be the even­
tual' result. Other, schools have pre­
ceded in the niovement; in fact it is 
doubtful if any others except Carnègie 
and M. I. T. require the amount of 
math which the present schedule of 
three years includes. Most'of them 
have the equivalent of the first two 
years only, and their graduates, are 
usually able to cope with., thp scien­
tific aspects of Engineering and are 
obviously better fitted with the more 
general and important asset of being 
able to express themselves in ail in­
telligent manner.
‘Oh! Kay’ Performance 
Last Night a Success
One of the Best Musical Plays 
Staged in Pittsburgh; Many 
Alumni Attend
BOOK REVIEW
CONCERNING EDGAR SALTUS
A Comment on The Imperial Orgy.
Some three years ago there was an 
Edgar Saltus revival. Now Saltus’ 
fame, seems to have settled down to 
normalcy again, and the present and 
the future will both acknowledge Sal­
tus simply the amusing upstart of the 
American eighteen nineties, the gen­
tleman who shocked the not quite 
naughty nineties by a series of stylis­
tic explosions, covering a vast number 
of subjects, .proving the while to the 
caused his erudition and to the clearer 
j thinking his superficiality. The fu- 
j ture may (possibly but not probably) 
care to remember him as the author of 
I Imperial Purple, the saga of the de- 
j cadent Roman Caesars. t
The present may conceivably stop 
to view him for a moment as author 
I of The Imperial Orgy, the saga of the 
Russian despots. Thus Saltus is 
J proved the archaelogist concerned 
| with the exotic and depraved part:
; thus he is also proved a curiosity to 
j the still prudish Americans. I have
---------------—---------—-----—-—*:alwaysa felt that The. Modern' Li-
1 defend himself, his penalty is made ; ^rary s *ntent was to reach thesei a .•------—- ***** ¦*-— eighteen
THISTLEDOWN
Cardo Chardon Disenwolle.
What shall we do about plebes and I all the more severe. Plebes are called 
•plebe regulations? Thistledown has >>P fir trial on absolutely unjustifiable
been thinking about the matter and has 
some suggestions. But personally, he 
thinks there are some pretty nice 
plebes around here, and he wouldn’t 
do anything to or about them.
Plebe regulations, of course, ought i
grounds; lack of matches, failure to 
be carrying a bible, or even for having 
a . peculiar name. Those plebes who 
need t9 be washed out under a cold 
shower, and who need trial most are 
usually the very ones who manage to 
escape it. Penalties are ridiculous in
Americans who still have 
ninety conciousnesses, these persons 
who still feel that the literary master­
pieces of the last hundred years are 
the flashy ones, telling things that 
shouldn’t be told. The Modern Li­
brary, several years now after the Ed­
gar Saltus revival, has added this ac­
count of the decay of Russian autoc­
racy to its list. Perhaps the publisher
frequently means a dearth of emotion­
al warmth. And thus style is the first 
to show signs of decay; it is too apt 
to have a strong colloquial and timely 
flavor. Saltus is primarily the stylist, 
playing on words, striving for epi­
grams, searching for the extreme 
word, delving into material abnormal­
ity to furnish a skeleton fpr words. 
The Imperial Orgy has a glitter still, 
yet the glitter belongs tcf artificiality 
rather than to fundamental brilliance. 
Tricks with words, follow one upon 
another so quickly that even the iso­
lated sentences of true brilliance are 
weakened by the abundance of trivial 
word stunts; the magician becomes 
tiresome after the initial showiness 
has been dulled by repetition and lack 
of variety.
The Imperial Orgy is a frightening 
book even to tlje imsliockable. For 
abundance of sheer horror told cooly I 
know of no book to equal it. Yet even 
horror ,can become unhorrible in 
abundance. Page ,after page narra­
tives of atrocities mingle with, elabor­
ate analysis of tendencies of society; 
true, the book presents the essence of 
the frightfulness with which Russia 
reeked in times past, but essences are 
somehow unsatisfactory. One contin­
ually feels a craving for some detail 
which is told impassionately, rather 
than if it were a phenomenon equal 
in importance to comic creation. Au­
thenticity was not a concern of Saltus; 
yet he wrote fantasies on history. If 
one could only consider these fantasies 
poems, the case might be altered. Im­
perial. Purple accomplishes more 
nearly poetry; somehow there is not 
the same shriek against evil societiesj I ItSUB 1 ChUldl Ivllu* UL | . , r ‘ i~\ — “i .i mip-Vir * unfairness. One man may get : an(j tjie gentieman who writes the not and evil individuals, there is not the
I o enc a •, eight swats for some imaginary af-<; erudite but still dull introduction will concern with historical theory.-------- —_—.—— | erudite but still dull introduction wto be very strictly enforced until then, j front to a sophomore, another three , convince the present that 'Saltus is 
After that a plebe is either in a fra- , for not wearing a dink and black ; Wqrth a view. Certainly the sentence 
ternity or he isn’t. If he is, his frater- [socks. But as I said trials are enor- j on the jacket, “The story of the Rus- . , „ , i ninii«lv fnnnv in o ¦ hiivlfiBfinp. musical I ~ inity ought to undertake the ]ob of dls-
ciplining him, and of showing him 
how to behave in the lowly and hum­
ble fashion that becomes him. If he 
isn't in a fraternity, the little atten­
tion which sophomores would give
ith historical theory.
S'altus will detain us not vei-y long 
despite those who cry for his recogni­
tion, despite Brentano who, some 
three years ago, promised to repub­
lish all of iS*altus’ work but somehow 
got sidetracked before much of the
mously funny in a burlesque musical ! sian Czars is one long carnival of 
comedy sense. As every circus clown j cruelty and lust, of a great, over- 
and vaudeville tumbler knows, there ; grown, thoroughly rotten oriental
is something irresistibly funny to an j despotism gradually but certainly tot- task had been accompli^hd. I can't 
audience about seeing a slapstick ap- j tering to its fall” will do much to in- imagine how Brentano was so taken 
plied to a certain part of the human j sure a commercial publisher of a pay- j in by so momentary a notoriety. The 
anatomy. Some plebes, moreover, will jng public. j Modern Library, on the other hand,
wise crack, and get off rotten jokes | . As a matter of fact, Saltus is a plays with the thought that many peo-
him if things remained as they are even betwen pain and tears. College doomed literary figure. Stylists of the pie will pay ninety-five cents each for
/now, would cure him neither of smart- iife offers little,enough other humor of past whose talents rested primarily wicked little books, whether they are
ness, egotism, freshness, greenness, this kind, and engineers and Indus- | on style have endured the years only worth the ' ninety-five cents or not.
I ' crackinK nor anything else I tries men particularly like humor of j as curiosities. Style in emphasis most The Modern Library takes no chances.
W e , . this kind. They prefer to have theirThat plebe regulations are growing ^ broad M rough , r------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
stale an,I Hat. and causing so much j Cartn,nly many o( the treahmen j i 
j talk here just now, is after all a good need t0 h-ve their atitude of prep ! i
sign. No civilized college makes so j school swelled lieadedness and. cock- I 1
| much of them as Tech. Off the campus | sureness knocked out of them, but the j
a dink is ridiculous. Watering finp | application of a sophomore paddle is |
PLAY REVIEW,
... , only one way to do, and a way effec- \posts, riding a broomstick, and such ^ on,y w,t|] a certatn lype of man.
OH! IMOGENE!
A Review 
One peculiarity of the drama as an
j things are essentially idiotic, cer-1 
tuinly all right for an occasional.rag,
I but preposterous as daily penalties.
This can 'be-left'to the 'fraternities to™' was wel1 illustrated for usby the current production m theanyway. And trials, as they now go 
on, are certainly not the best way ot
ENGIjNEERS OR MATHEMATICIANS
I * ,Engineering schools have, until re-1 
cently regarded mathematics the all j 
important and one essential part of 
their curriculum. It is of course essen­
tial, and to a certain degrete all im- j 
portant, but it is a question if the 
stress placed on it has not been such i 
as to eliminate other courses which 
are more important to an Engineer— 
that is, one who actually intends .do­
ing Engineering work. Many of the I 
larger Universities of a more liberal 
nature are beginning to realize • a 
weakness in this point. They have I 
gradually eliminated some of the ! 
higher mathematics and replaced | 
them with courses which have a ten- 
dency \to broaden the scope of the stu­
dent. Such courses as English and I 
Psychology are rapidly gaining popu-1 
larity as a part of the training which j 
will be of value to an Engineer. In I 
almost every, case the agitation for 
a change of this sort has come from j 
the alumni of the schools. They are | 
demanding a .broader conception of j 
cultural subjects.
Likewise, if one questions a Carne- j 
gie alumnus of the Engineering school ; 
as to what improvement, in the curri- j 
cuium he deems would be most bene-1 
ficial to the student of Engineering, j 
the reply is almost, invariably "More 
English.”, Many of tho instructors and 
heads of departments have long since 
realized the weakness in this part of j 
the present Science School .'schedule j 
but they are powerless to improve | 
upon it.
The courses are already crowded to j 
capacity and the only means of male« j 
ing the change would bo elimination | 
of something already on tho list, or j 
the inauguration of a five-year course ! 
in Engineering. The latter has many | 
apparent drawbacks, although it will | 
unquestionably he the eventual result 
of the present trend of Engineering i 
requirements.
The other alternative, that of elim- j 
ination, seems to be the only oiie to 
which the school could turn. It is 1 
difficult to decide which subjects are ; 
of lesser importance as all are esseu-1
Oh, Kay! Did you see Oh! Kay? 
Yes, wasn’t It great? I wonder when 
wo can have another benefit? Wasn^t 
the candy good?
Tho benefit performance, Oh! Kay, 
given at the Alvin Theater, Monday, 
February 20, was one of tho most suc­
cessful benefit ¦ performances of tho 
PcBBOWBBS The musical comedy, in 
which tho inimitable Julia Sanderson 
and versatile Frank Cruniit, aided by 
a most imposing cast, produced an en­
tertaining comedy, filled with India- 
poiiBiiblo laughter and hilarity. The, 
music by Geoj'go Gershwin njuilo an 
exceptional appeal to the audience. 
Tho oiVtHtandihg song hits of tho show 
were: ‘‘Clap Your HundV’ "Do-Dodo," 
"Someone to Watch Over Mo," and 
"Maybe."
The success of the enterprise was 
due to the co-operation of the student 
body who were aided most; graciously 
by the undying interest and support of 
the Alumni. ’.Many prominent Pitts­
burgh residents were among the pa­
tronesses. They were:
Mrs. 'S'amuel Harden Church, Mrs. 
John L. Porter, Dr. Thomas S‘. Baker, 
Miss MaryBidwell Bred, Mr. Glendin- 
niiig Iveeble, Miss Mary Watson 
Green, Mr. Arthur W. Tarbell, Miss 
Ida M. Allerton, Miss E. M. Chalfant. 
Mrs. Harriet B. W. Chalfant, Mrs. F. 
Stewart Cupps, Miss Sara F. Ellis, 
Miss Josephine B. Gibson, Dr. Luba 
Robin Goldsmith, Mrs. W. H. R. Hil­
liard, Mrs. F. Iv. Kirkpatrick, Mrs. J. 
R. McC.une, Mrs. A. W. McEldowney, 
Mrs. Carroll Miller, Miss Martha S. 
Nuttall, Miss Louise G. Russell.
Miriam Cupps, Patroness Com­
mittee.
Alice Mclnnis, Correspondence Com­
mittee.
Much credit is due Miriam Cupps 
who was chairman of the Patroness 
Committee and to Alice Mclnnis ou 
the Correspondence Committee for 
their respective work.
Since the enterprise has been so 
successful, it has placed in the hands 
of the Woman’s Scholarship Organiza­
tion sufficient funds to provide for all 
plaitned scholarships for tho semester 
1928-1929, The entire not proceeds 
will be used to aid students of high 
scholastic scholarship. The money for 
this purpose was formerly raised and 
given by separate women’s organiza­
tions on the Campus.
Tho Women’s Scholarship Organiza­
tion hopes to make the benefit per­
formance an annual affair by which 
Carnegie co-eds will raise the entire 
amount of funds ,to pay nil tho schol­
arships, given to women students of 
Margaret Morrison and Art School, 
which were formerly given by campus 
organizations.
It is hoped that this benefit perform­
ance will form the foundation of a 
project worthy to be a tradition on the 
Carnegie campus.
i Taking off one’s hat to a wooden fence tle^lin£ 'Yith tlle barl)S. 
I is rather an asinine way of showing ! >" sh°rt' "hole’ i for these things. Regulations should
Little Theater; a peculiarity, or 
j ratlier a method, without which much 
j of the playwright’s power to amuse 
| would be lost. We might call it the 
I method of shreds and patches—that 
! is, the method of telling the truth byrespect to seniors, it would probably abolished at Christmas, but en-
strike an outsider as a scornful and Col.ce„ very sU.icUy ,mt„ Ulen wlth ^ t0Kether bits ot truth; or Halt 
insulting gesture. Undoubtedly plebes , trials in each college three or four j e r,.aKmeuts out o[ nfe or
should loam the college yells and times a week, if necessary. After Christ- chi^0j| enlarged to simulatemas freshman discipline should be en- w|w| ^hleh ,f they fit t0. 
tirely in the Hands of the fratermt.es ^ Jn somo lashl(i may saUsty
..,X I’m. na nlnrlo-oo irrt T’lio ill HfM'nlln f* „well enough for a representation of
songs, perhaps it is selfishly con­
venient for upperclassmen if they use 
certain back entrancoB, sidewalks andof all non-pledges, that is, all plebes, life or character on the stage. But, to dormitory wash bowls, and It is pleas- not; under the jurisdiction of a frater- | , n fl„ure n is easy to see
ant to hear them saying hello to each 
other and to upperclassmen, but aside 
from those there are no regulations 
which are either sensible or dviized.
Plebe trials can only be justified as 
giving a gloriously humorous hour 
once a week to the sophomores. That 
they fail in their supposed purpose is 
clear enough. Plebe trials involve no 
justice whatever. 11' a plebe tries to
nity, after Christmas should be in the ^ mirr0I. this kind of dramahands Of the sophomore class as a ! tQ ,|fe ,g at berf a 1)atchel]
whole, acting in two ways: By weekly ^ 
trials to punish obvious disrespect by 1
non-pledge men toward upper class­
men and Carnegie traditions; and 
thfti a small vigilance committee 
whose membership should change 
monthly, empowered to consider and 
judge all barbarian misdemeanors, 
and to paddle and penalize at any 
time they may see fit.
Colleges Which Bar Cars are Super
which warp
since the entire glass is uniform in 
distortion, give the illusion of truth. 
This was what Lamb referred to in 
Setting "The Way of the World” in 
w^iat.was, actually, a world apart; 
and the same could be said for most 
satirical comedy. To test the degree 
of distortion,' one needs but take the 
| characters off the stage and put them
! in a novel. At once, they appear
"Prep Schools” According to Lehigh Dean ^mey^T in’" very
_________________ ' ¡essence; their exaggerated gestures
The barring of automobiles at a col- j dered out o£ dormitories and frater» ! will provoke only derision or bore-
lege is a tacit admission that that par-; nity houses, and playing cards should | dom; their forced utterances will. ... - be frowned upon as severely as they have no ring of truth m them. So itticular college is not an institution o were by t]le ear]y purjtanSf though for j is that novels can be made into plays 
I higher learning, but merely a super | a different reason, and an index ex-j with no change of method, but that
I "prep school.” Such is the conviction | purgatorius of magazines should be , few plays can be converted into
' of Dean Max McConn, of Lehigli Uni- j published and enforced. | novels, whether realistic or satrical,
| versity, writing in the March issue of "Any college which is seriously seek- I without virtually rewriting them.
! "Plain Talk Magazine” on this dis- j ing to maintain the satus of an instl- 
j ciplinary step, which over 40 colleges, ! tution of higher learning,” the Lehigh 
j including some of the best known in- j dean continues, "may properly wel- 
| sti.tutions of “high education” in the | come the automobile as a useful ad­
junct, an instrument for speeding upcountry have taken.
Only if a college considers, itself a 
super "prep school,” thinks the dean, 
is it perfectly logical to ban: the auto- 
i mobile. ‘
I college,” he writes in 
I "to acept.all the children of the com- 
| munity, or at any rate all the children 
i of the well-to-do, at the age of IS or 
; thereabout, regardless of their men­
tality or their interest or lack of inter­
est in the things of the mind, and to 
j house them, feed them, guard them, 
guide them, and incidentally force 
j upon them some attention to book- 
learning for four years, just as the
of King Lear; but if lie ever was at 
his best, it was last week, as the shy, 
the lowly Alfred, clutching his in­
credible hat and his parrot cage, 
stuttering protest at the awful things 
that were perpetually happening to 
him, sinking into’ seats and leaping 
out of them in terror, peering from 
behind curtains or plunging in revolt 
through the thin air: The excellence 
of his interpretation, down to tlie last 
detail, could best be realized by 
imagining other people in the role. 
Certainly, glamour would be lost, un­
less a born comedian essayed it. I 
have yet heard no word other than 
praise of him in the part; I should 
hazard the guess that he who 
throweth the first stone will be a 
bilious fellow indeed.
After Mr. Lewis, Miss Werts. Well
made up of“aiS(S ISII *£?'' daughter, she
and distort, although S”e ,rMityf to the »"'«PPy Imogene,and did not exaggerate except where
the lack of exaggeration would have
been a shame—her. recital of “Maud”, 
for example, a delicious bit of horse 
play with that other Alfred, so often 
gibed at in this heartless age.
Charles McClelland was pleasing as 
the romantic ' Mr. Hawkins, giving a 
better characterization than any for 
which lie lias been cast so far.
Another happy choice was Walter 
Regers in the part of the gloomy Mr. 
Throgmore (mentioned by several 
mjnor journalists of the Middle West 
as a worthy successor to Booth and 
Irving). Appropriately theatrical, 
striding from pink chair to pink 
chair, leaning sombrely against the 
mantlepiece whereon reposed, in soli­
tary splendor, a stuffed something 
under a dome of glass, Mr. Rogers 
gave a performance reminiscent of 
the great, the lamented Mr. Vincent 
Crummies, flown long ago to the dis­
mal shades.
Miss Copas was calculatingly spec­
tacular, a swooping parakeet with
To this phenomenon the drama owes j 
most of its ehormous power over the ; 
emotions, and especially over that of | 
joy. To this also, that lovely carica- j. 
ture, "Oh! Imogene!” lately produced i 
its processes of elimination. Motor- i by Miss Anna Dice, owed its success j piumage of red and green, and a
cars will frequently bring-to the atten- | in gaining laughter,, and in giving de- i voice (naturally musical) made into
tion of the faculty case.«* of ‘students’ light to those who laughed. It was 
It is them the duty of the | who are not real students at all, and | caricature of the most exaggerated 
‘Plain Talk,” ! who, for their sake and that of the • sort, and as caricature it must be
college, should cease as soon as possi- ' judged. Happily, the director saw fit ________________^____________
ble to clutter up the campus. In such to emphasize the distortion in every j gathered anywhere but since 
a case it is not the automobile alone ¡way desirable; happily, too, she 
which should be sent home, but the j found an actor
an excruciating squawk..
Thus it goes through the whole 
cast—each character in it was 
created out of bright, fantastic stuffs, 
each
J was as garish as the other, the patch-' 
two who were i Work was uniform in its capacity to
young man with it. If a young man j artists in caricature. Best of these j startle, and to pleace.- It did startle, 
has so little real interest in learning j in this respect was, of course Thomas ! and it pleased more than a little, as 
that, given a free choice between work- j Lewis, as the susceptible Alfred, who i anyÔne could haré told who was with­
in g at his books and driving around hatëd women, but would not refuse yards of the Little Theater door
while the play was going on. Indeed, 
if laughter is contagious, a number of
in an automobile, he chooses the lat-1 to kiss them if they really wanted 
tor with any dangerous frequency, j him to, and would even go so far as
lower ‘prop’ schools have done for the I then that young man has no business j t.o marry them both of them, if it j individuals might have been seen, (lur-
j preceding four years. a* college anyway.
I “Tlie faculties and deans should nqt \ To the argument that cars should j
ars. There are also | be barred on the ground of public ij stop with burring
i the movies, the radio, the victrola, the I safety, Dean McConn declares, “the 
! local cabarets, cards, and an alum- j notion that college men and women 
I dance of cheap fiction, both thrilling are any more reckless than others or 
and salacious, on every newsstand. If j their generation is obviously absurd, 
¡the 'prep school’ conception of the j The barring of college students from 
I college is to prevail, further steps j the use of a recognized and nearly 
I should be taken at once.
came to that. I jng performance, lurking in the empty
Mr. Lewis is not essentially a tragic | lobby, and laughing very loudly about 
actor—it is to be suspected that he nothing.
would not be at his best in the part { K. S. N.
Columbia University. — Brunettes, 
science has found, are far more pas­
sionate and proficient in the art of love 
making than their blonde sisters. Six 
Students I universal instrumentality of business I chorus girls from Broadway sat on
i should be strictly forbidden to visit! and pleasure is a gross instance of j the front row of a moving picture 
I either the movies or cabarets where class legislation; and the public senti- house with elaborate emotion-record- 
! dancing may be indulged in except; at: ment in favor of so doing is a modern j ing apparatus attached to their glori- 
j rare intervals and by special permis- j expression of the very ancient ‘town | fied persons, and watched John Gil- 
I sion of the dean. All radio equipment j and gown’ antipathy, to which college j bert make love to Greta Garbo in the 
i and musical machines slioulde be or- i faculties should pay no attention.” \ films.
Ithaca, N. Y.—;(IP)—Twenty co-eds 
were difeposessed of their belongings 
and $10.000 dnmage' was dn^e 
recently when a fire started in the 
basement of Sage College annex, Cor­
nell university, and shot up the 
clothes shoot to the. roof where it 
spread like a fan.
Cornell students were wet dowm 
when they thoughtlessly, cheered the 
firemen in their work.
