FOOTBALL DANCE 
UNION
SATURDAY - $1.50
CARNEGIE-ASHLAND 
FORBES FIELD
SATURDAY2:30 P. M.
VOL. XXIII, NO. 2.CARNEGIE INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY, PITTSBURGH, PA.TUESDAY, OCTOBER 2, 1928.
Carnegie’s Athletes Win Season’s Opener 
Against Westminster at Youngstown Sat. 
..Presbyterians Score But One Touchdown
Plaid Not Pressed to Win and TARTAN COACH
Reserves Are Not Used.
Moorehead Shines With
Brilliant End Running
Carnegie Gains Nearly All 
Ground Around the Titan 
Terminals.
Last Saturday, pitted against a team which was almost hopelessly outplayed in all departments of the game, the football hoys from Car­negie lifted the lid of their 1928 season. In the same city which was the scene of last year’s gsunc, Youngstown, and ivuying against the same team, Ywkyninstcr, the Tartans gave to tlit expectant public an inkling of what is to be cxpcctcd of them during the course of the football season. At some times playing brilliantly, and at others raggedly, they demonstrated more than .sufficient ability to down- the Titans from Westminster by a fairly overwhelming score,
32 to 6.
The final score is no true indi­cation of Carnegie’s strength. Only four veterans were numbered among those to start the game. The other seven were recruits, playing their first game of Varsity football on a college team. Not­withstanding this fact, the team showed, at many times, the con­sistency of a well oiled machine. Ground was gained at will and •every man played the brand of football of which lie is really capa­ble. At other times the playing was ragged, but no more so than was cxpcctcd for a season opener.
The whole affair started with a bang. Holzaplc, of Westminster, kickcd off into the waiting hands of Dutch Eyth. That worthy im­mediately proceeded to demonstrate that lie had lost none of the abili­ty for which he was famous last .season and returned the ball from his own 4 yard line to the 43 in two successive tricics, then he made a first down on Westminster’s 46 yard line. In the next play By.th was hurt, not seriously, but the coaches deemed it advisable to re­place him with Moorehead. It was evidently thought that Dutch might be of some use later in the season when the really hard opponents are met. In this play Carnegie lost the- b/All, by a-fumble but the line held and .the Titans were forced to punt. Play continued in a sce-saw manner for the better part of the first quarter and then Moorehead started some of his famous runs, putting the ball within scoring dis­tance. Karcis, in three plunges, took the ball across the line for the first touchdown of the game and of the season. The placement try for the extra point was wide.
The second quarter opened even more auspiciously for Carnegie ihan the first. On the first play, Dreshar grabbed the ball from the waiting hands of a Wcstminstci man and carried it 31 yards for the second touchdown. The try for the Qxtra point was missed. Again a lack of dash was noted in the Tartan's offense but soon a com­bination of line plunges, forward passes and •end runs brought the ball close enough to the line for Karcis to take it over. Harpstcr attempted to gain the extra point by means of an end run but failed. This time there was no lapse of spirit, for, after the ball was placed in play on the 20 yard line, Harp­stcr passed to Moorehead, who raced 75 yards for the fourth touch­down. Harpstcr then -booted the ball from placement and gaincct I lie additional point‘d The first half ended with Westminster checking- 
(Continued on Page 5) .
Carnegie Guild Begins Fall
Program With Annual Drive
Starting yesterday at noon and scheduled >.o continue throughout the week, the annua! drive for membership as the first event of the fall program of the Carnegie Tech Guild was; inaugurated under the general chairmanshop of Eve­lyn Goldcnson, president of the organization, and the sub-chairman, France's Guy of Margaret Morri­son, and Grace Jarrett of the Arts 
School.Committeemen from both schools have been appointed to help handle the drive. The Arts School aides arc Katherine Wilson in the Music department, Blanche Bray in the Painting and Decorating depart­ment; Kitty Seybold in the Drama department, and Pendleton Scully in the Sculpture department. Mar­garet Morrison committeemen have been appointed in the four classcs, and are Ann Dickinson in the Freshman class, Ruth Carey in the Sophomore class, Rosemary Barr in the Junior class, and Frances Guy 
in the Senior class.Through membership tags to be sold at the price of fifty cents, the Guild will endeavor to raise money for the purpose of philanthropic activity off the campus. The tags will be placed on sale every noon during the week of the drive.Guild is the only organization of its type on the campus. Organized by Miss Clara Linforth, former dean of Margaret Morrison, it has conducted volunteer work in some hf the poorer sections of the city. Th’c program usually consists of distributing toys during holiday season or fitting a room in a set­tlement house. Last year, through the efforts of Guild,-a permanent library for children, was donated in a local hospital.
Carnegie vs. Ashland 
Sat. At Forbes Field
With the greenness of early sea­son form worn off by the West­minster game last Saturday, the Carnegie Varsity will kick off next Saturday to Ashland College with a little more experience. The game is to be played at Forbes Field, which is to be used by Carnegie this fall for the last season. Since this is the first home game of the 
season the whole student body is expected to turn out. At 1:30 the gates will be thrown open; and at 2:3d the captains will toss the coin. The usual feature between the halfs will be provided by the Plebes, who will try to show the Upper­classmen what spirit they have ab­sorbed in the short space of two weeks.
Sophomores Prepare to
Keep Plebes From the
Lurking Temptations of Childhood
Extra Copies of Thistle 
On Sale In Council Office
Wally Steffen
Thirty Five Freshmen 
Among: Eighty Out
For Kiltie Band
Director Sullivan Still Faces Incon­venience of Not Enough Uniforms
The Carnegie Tech Kiltie Band hc-ld its first rehearsal of the year in the Union last Thursday night. The director, Mr. E. J. Sullivan better known as “Sully'' and Carl E. Kumpf, the student manager, were very much pleased with the large response, to the call for new members; there were eighty mem­bers, of this group about forty-five were upper-classmcn, and thirty-five were freshmen. If numbers mean 
anything the band this year will be the biggest and will be the best Carnegie has ever had.
At the present time the band is equipped with fifty-eight kilts; this means that, there arc about thirty men without uniforms. The thirty men who have not received uni­forms will play at the football games and take part in all of the band’s activities. This sad state of 
affairs has confronted the officials of the band for several years, but has not dampened their spirits.By working overtime the band got into shape for the trip to 
Youngstown last. Saturday where they iiiid c their usual splendid showing in contributing their part to the football game. On October 11, the Band will play for a stu­dent reception at Christ M. E. Church. Other trips arc being planned, the biggest being to the Notre Dame nt South Bend, Ind.
EDITOR MAKES NEW 
THISTLE APPOINTMENTS
FOR THIS YEAR
The 1929 Thistle Board is al­ready making arrangements for both its editorial work and tile completion of its business plans.Contracts have been m;\de for a considerable number of books and many more arc being subscribed for daily. The book is being sold at the subscription price of $4.50. After mid-term the price will be raised to $5.00. This is due to a contract with the cover maker calling for the increase after that date.
The work in the annual has been organized so that the book must be out May 15.
The editorial staff will be com­posed of an editor-in-chief aided by five associates, each in charge of one of the five sections. The art editors have already been ap­pointed by the Painting Depart­ment of the Arts School. They are Don Shaffer, art editor, and Anne Todd, associate art editor. The associate editor of the Thistle is Elinor Artcr. Photography will be in charge of B. G. Zailier.Candidates for the business staff should obtain contract books and sell. Appointments for the com­ing year will be made on a strictly competitive basis.
FREE PUBLIC ORGANRECITAL AT INSTITUTE TO BEGIN OCTOBER 6
On Saturda}' evening, October 6, at 8:15, the first of the Free Public Organ Recitals at Carnegie Insti­tute will be^ given by Dr. Charles Heiijrotli. The recital next Sunday begins the 1928-29 season, plans for 
which include several • special fea­tures; among them will be the observance of the world-wide Schu­bert celebration to take place in November.
The Free Public Organ recitals, which have been an institution cyer since the first one thirty-five ydars ago, are among the most cultural of Andrew Carnegie's benefactions. They take1 place on Saturday eve­nings and Sunday afternoons dur­ing nine months of the year, from October to June inclusive. They arc designed to round out in a musical way the activities of the Pittsburgh population.Dr. Heinroth, who is beginning his twenty-first season as organist and Director of Music at the Car­negie Institute, has recently re­turned from an extended tour of Europe where he studied with care the most rcccnt developments in music.
Resignations and Petitions 
of Women’s Activity Point 
System Due by October 10
Class Conflicts Intefere With 
Four Groups of Girl 
Activities.
All resignations and petitions 
relative to the Women’s Activities 
Point System must be filed before 
October 10 with Florence Bright, chairman of Mortarboard, at.Forbes Hall, so that conflicts may be settled. Any student holding of­fices which conflict with classcs of this system must resign from the conflicting position or petition to the Mortarboard in order to hold their present offices.
All activities fall into four classcs, and the participation in 
them is limited according to the following groups:One office in 1st class.One office in 4th class.One office in 2nd class.
One office in 3rd class.One office in 2nd class.Two offices in 4th class.Two offices in 3rd class.One office in 4th class.One office in 3rd class.Three offices in 4th class.
Five offices in 4th class only.The classcs into which the extra curricular activities have been grouped are as follows:Class I
President of Margaret Morrison Senate.President of Woman's Dormi­tory Council.President of Women’s Athletic Association.President of Guild.President of Y. W. C. A.President of. Inter-Sorority Coun­cil.News Editor of Tartan.Chairman Scholarship Benefit.Class IISecretary Student Council.Sccpretary - Treasurer Women’s Athletic Association.Secrctary-Treasurcr Guild.President Glee Club.Assistant Editor Thistle.
Assistant Art Editor Thistle.House Presidents.Social Chairman Senior Class.
Social Chairman Junior Class.:Chairman Woman's Campus Week.
Manager Glee Club.Class Presidents.Vice President Art Class.Treasurer Senate.
Senior Representative Student Council.
Chairman Plebe Regulation Com­mittee.
Secretary Margaret Morrison Senate.
Class III
President Art School Sororities.Secretary - Treasurer Dormitory Council.
Secretary Campus Week.
Secretary-Treasurer Glee Club.Reporters—Tartan.Contributing Editors.Class Treasurer.
Treasurer Inter-Sorority Council.Organizations Editor Thistle.Board Members Woman’s Ath­letic Association.
Guild Board Members.Manager—Stringers.
Social Chairman Fresiiman Class.Members Scholarship Benefit Or­ganization.
Y. W. Cabinet (Other than President).
Plebe Regulation Committee.Women’s Editor Tartan.
Managing Editor Tri-Publica­tions.
Class IVOfficers Department Clubs.Class Officers (Other than Presi­dent).
Officers and Representatives In- tei-Sorority Council.
Senate Members (Other than Of­ficers listed).
House Officers.Honorary Officers.
Vice President Dormitory Coun­cil.
. Carnegie Tech has been consider­ing such a system for many years. The rilling has been installed this year, affecting students both of the College of Fine Arts and of Mar­garet Morrison. By this system 
the extra-curricular activities will be more evenly divided among the women of the campus. The sys­tem will now be ;n force under the sponsorship of the active Mor­tarboard chaptcr.
One of the most delightful wel­
comes ever extended to Carnegie 
Plebes was at the big party given by the Sophomores as their part of Freshman Week. This party was voted a success by all upper- classmcn and those freshmen who survived the pleutitude of attentions which the second year men gener­ously gave without stint of time or energy: The Sophomores did their part nobly and most of the school in a body thanks them for their hospitality. Some freshmen ace withholding their thanks, but never­theless they, the critical few, will be won over by the lavish enter­tainment which will be their share as freshmen for the first semester.
It is a well-known fact that Sophomores reserve their choice smiles, soft words of advice, and gentle pats on the shoulders and other parts of torso for the su­perior freshmen.
The Sophomores have no. trouble 'distinguishing these superior fresli- ni.cn for they make themselves seep las: well as heard. They are con­spicuous through their regal bear- ' ing, declamations and ultra-fash- |ionable dress. They also have the habit, common in all great mcij; that of forgetting words of songs, and such insignificant articles as booklets and matchcs.
To these superior Freshmon the Sophomores will attach themselves and bring them into the Sopho­mores’ midst in order to ask their
Worcester, Mass.—The first foot- ball fatality of the 192S collegiate grid season occurrcd here when James J. 1* cnton, of Lawrence, Mass., died in a hospital of injuries received while tackling a runner in Holy Cross football practice. His neck was broken.
advice as to how the school should j be run.
To these freshmen they will listen with a silence befitting the Plcbe’s dignity, and carefully and eagerly drink in the pearls of wisdom which the freshmen have. They shall then salute them as theywould Caesar or A1 Capone and acclaim them as they and their wisdom deserve. Then with thecustomary generosity already noted, the Sophomores will award them gifts and honors as is their due.Then shall the freshmen go out from the auditorium with joyous heart and with songs of thanks on their lips. They shall sing praise unto the Lord for the gifts which He had bestowed them and con­gratulate the students of Carnegie for having the ability to ferret out such as they are to seek advicc.The freshmen shall wear gar­lands and other array which shall distinguish them from the lowly inconspicuous Plcbcs who act very much like the ordinary upperclass­men. 'However, these superior fresh­men become surfeited with the honors of their positions and these attentions of the Sophomores be­come monotonous and tiresome. All people of prominence eventually dodge the adulation of the mob; they eventually disguise themselves as the lowly inconspicuous fresh­men do. But by that time they have fallen in caste and# become Sophomores.
Combined “Y” Drive Carnegie Represented
To Open October 15 ! At Printing Convention
Many Functions Needs Small Finan-i Dr. Baker to Deliver Opening Ad- 
cial Aid From Each Student. dress to United Typothetae.
The annual Y. M. C. A. and Y< W. C. A. financial drive will start Monday, October 15, with a dinner in the evening for the men and women who arc to aid iii the drive. Excellent speakers have been secured in past years for these din­ners and even better ones, if such a thing is possible, tire promised for the 1928 dinner.The Carnegie "Y” deserves the support of every student because it docs a great deal of good under the direction of the secretary, Mr. R. V. Davis. The following items, arc some of the many ways that the Carnegie “Y” is helping the students at Carnegie:Cashes your checks on the campus.Visits, the sick.Supplies radio outfits to the sick and injured.Gives helpful • information to PlcTjes through the senior cabinet plan.Co-operates in t h c institute chapel service.Runs stags and entertainments.Assists students from foreign lands.Assumes responsibility for caps and gowns.Provides blankets for Kiltie Band on cold days.Introduces students to the churches of their choice regardless of creed.Co-operates with- the city Y. M, C. A. branches.Gives Carnegie world-wide pub­licity by contributing news to Y. M. C. A. publications.Has representatives in local, state and national Y. M. C. A. or­ganizations.Sends delegates to the Silver Bay conference.At -a recent cabinet meeting the date of October 15 was decided on and William McNeill, who has charge of the financial campaign for the, “Y” lias made his plans ac­cordingly. Preparations are now under way for a big dinner and a big drive. Any students desiring to help in this drive should see Mr.- Davis at the “Y” office.The “Y” will cash all checks on Monday and Thursday noon 
from 11:30 to 1:30. This service is for the benefit of the students.
CEDAR HALL NEW WOMEN’S 
DORM; MANY CHANGES
IN OTHER HAILS
A new women’s dormitory, Cedar Hall, 5060 Forbes Street, has been added to the Carnegie Tech campus. Mrs. Mamie C. Vernon of Fay­ette, Missouri, is chaperone.Cedar Hall is an ideal dormitory. Its large, beautiful rooms accom­modate 25 women, two in a room, for the most part. The purchasers are quite proud of it. A special feature of Cedar'Hall is the Crow’s Nest, a room belonging to two .of the girls who, by their decision to name their room so appropriately, made it the outstanding room in the dorm. Crow’s Nest is dec­orated to carry out the suggested idea.
As a consequence of the pur­chase of Cedar Hall, Sycamore and Walnut, former freshmen dorms, have been closed. They have been turned over to the business man­ager, Mr. Orbin, who will prob­ably have them used as homes for the faculty. *Cypress Hall, _ 5064 Forbes is being used exclusively by librarians, many of whom are graduate stu­dents. Hawthorne Hall has been made-a freshman dorm.Mrs. Blanche C. Patterson suc­ceeds Mrs. Jane West as head of the Forbes Unit. Mrs. Patterson is a Wilson College woman and has had experiences in Social Work at Penn Hall and Ogantz. Be­sides being head of the Forbes Unit. Mrs. Patterson is social head of the Inn and presides there.
At the annual convention of the United Typothetae of America, which is being held in Canada this week from ' Octob’cr 1-6, inclusive, Dr. Baker, Mr. Gustafson, head of the Department of Printing, and R. W. Wood, a senior in the De­partment of Printing, will repre­sent Carnegie.Dr. Baker will deliver the open­ing address at the convention; Mr. Gustafson will also address the convention, while "Bob” Wood will take part in a play which is to portray student activities at Car­negie Institute of Technology. A printing exhibit is being sent from here to the convention'so' that the delegates may view the accomplish­ments of the Printing Department of Carnegie.Vandcrcook & Sons arc donating a proof press to the Department of printing at Carnegie Tech. This is the second donation ' within a year from this firm.The following article, by R. O. Vandcrcook, appeared in the Amer­ican Printer, and is a proof of the widespread publicity Carnegie’s printing department is receiving:‘‘The Carnegie Institute of Tech­nology at Pittsburgh has establish­ed a four-year course to train men as .superintendents in printing plants. The pay now offered to competent persons is as fully at­tractive, if not more so, than that offered in other industries' and there is much more room for good positions in the graphic arts than in other high class ' industries.There is more cultural value in studying the graphic arts than in any other industry. This fact is recognized by the rapid increase in the number of public schools that are putting in plants to teach the subject from a cultural viewpoint only.
Of so great importance is cor­rect instruction to beginners that the highest grade of mentality is now demanded by intelligent school boards to qualify them for. the position of printing instructor, and those of the right mentality and training are now so few that the salaries offered are sure to become very attractive. The best evidence of ability to teach is a diploma from Carnegie.
This movement to teach printing as part of public education has back' of it the cordial support of master printers all over the world. To appreciate any art takes a knowledge of that art. Those who have taken printing as a cultural subject will become buyers of the better and^ more efficient kinds of printing. Those who first take up printing as a cultural subject and then make it their vocation wil' become flie most efficient of crafts­men ^and the best of superintend-ents.’
Mathematics Professors 
Write Text for Students
Several copies of last year’s i Thistle returned because of faulty address arc at the Student Council office and may be secured any day next week from 12:30 to 1:30 by the subscribers who failed to ! 
receive theirs.At the same time a few extra ; copies will be for sale to any I student who desires to p:.rchase j 
c.This is an excellent opportunity j for those students who for mono- j tary or other reasons, did not se- i cure one last year. Thcc 1928 Thistle ranked as high as any | 
proceeding issue and is well worth I the money which would be ex­pended for this memory of college 
days. ,
2,383 Register in Day
Courses; an Increase
of 131 Over Last Year
PLAID EDITOR
First Football Dance Will 
Be Held in the Union Next 
Saturday Evening, Oct. 6
Collegiate Imps Have Been 
Secured to Play at the 
First Dance.
Majority of Freshmen Are 
Registered in Engineering 
or Industries School 
Courses.
Night School Will Have
New Record Enrollment
Freshmen Registration Shows 
Increase in All Schools 
Except M. M. C. C.
The first Football Dance of the year will be held in the Union this Saturday evening at 9:00 p. m., with the Collegiate Imps or some other group of equal standing pro­viding the music. These dances will be held every Saturday eve­ning during the football and basket­ball season; the admission for each 
couple is $1.50.They are sponsored by the Ath­letic Association. This year it is planned to present a much more attractive entertainment for the student. Orchestras were previ­ously composed of students whose playing was not up to the standard of large dance orchestras. This year it has been decided to securc larger and better orchestras. More­over, adequate checking facilities have, been arranged.This is an ideal chance for the Freshmen to meet their heroes, the football players, who _ arc usually present for an evening’s entertainment after the struggle of Saturday afternoon. All regula­tions are set aside at the Football Dances; so, the Plebes need ..not fear any intcrferenc’e on the. part of the Sophomores. It has been the custom for many years to hold dances on the ; evening after each home football or basketball game, and the tradition will be carried on this year in an even finer man­ner and on a much larger scale. These dances give Carnegie men and women an excellent oppor­tunity to enjoy the social privi­leges on our own campus each week-end during the winter. The athletic dances, of which there are to be six this .season, fill in Satur­day evening open dates between the major functions such as the Musical Clubs’ Dance, the Soph Hop and the Junior Prom.
Y. W. C. A. Assists 
Deans In Welcoming
New Students
Edw. E. McDonald
Engineering Dept, to Get 
Aeronautical Equipment
Twenty-nine Now Enrolled In 
Course. No Actual Flying 
To Be Given
A text to be used in the fresji- man mathematics courses C-l and C-2, and in the night school mathe­matics courses has been prepared by Professors J. B. Rosenbach and E. A. Whitman, members of the Carnegie Math Department. The work, a text, on Plane Trigo­nometry will be used this year in mimeograph form and will be pub­lished next year. The text fills a need which has existed for some time due to the, fact that available texts had to be greatly supple­mented to conform to the work of the Carnegie Math Department.
LOST
A bulletin containing the minutes of the 1927 Meeting of the Ameri­can Alumni Council, held at the University of North Carolina. If found please return to Miss An­drew’s officc in the Gvm.
The Carnegie Chaptcr of the Y. W. C. A. has carried out an inten­sive program for the welcoming of the freshman this fall; the list of 
its activities has included the plac­ing of autumn flowers in the.Vyood- lawn dormitories, the providing of each freshman girl with an. escort to church on her first Sunday in the dorms, and a banquet in Carnegie Inn, September 24, when Dpan Green spoke of Carnegie ideals and traditions, and Rev! Kerr of the Shadyside Presbyterian 
Church gave an address.Last Friday the annual Big and Little Sister Tea, sponsored by the Y. W., was held in the • Women’s Club Room. A program consisting of a speech by Dean Green on “The Big and Little Sister Move­ment,” readings by Esther Lawton and Kitly Seybpld, and a talk by Martha Schrachengost, chairman of freshmen regulations at Margaret Morrison, preceded the serving of tea and the dancing.On October 15 the Y. W. will launch a drive for membership, under Anne McKee, membership 
drive, chairman. The drive is to be inaugurated by a combined Y. M. and Y. W. banquet for the com­mittee members.The Y. W. C. A. plans to hold a dinner for freshmen who were Girl Reserves in their high schools; thus workers for this organization may be recruited from the 1933 class.Semi-monthly meetings will be held by the Y. W., a discussion group and a buffet supper, at which prominent men and women will speak, being scheduled alternately.The cabinet for the coming year is as follows: President, JeannetteFolmar; vice presidents, Miriam Cupps and Barbara Rcnwick; secre­tary, Isobel Sheppard; treasurer, Florence Bright; committee chair­men: membership, Florence Jenny; Y. W. drive, Ann McKee; finance, Imogene Schory; religious activities, Irene La Londe; year’s program, Peggie Nichols; social work, Mar­tha Low Clark: poster, Betty Good­win; music, Madclenc Ferguson; student industrial movement, Peg Wagcley; cheers, Kay Anderson; publicity, Catherine Boyd.
NOTICE
The Mechanical Engineering De­
partment is soon to have a con­
siderable amount of equipment and 
laboratory facilities for the new 
Aeronautical Option which is now 
being given for the first time this 
semester at Carnegie Tech. Car­
negie has recently been put'on the 
accredited list of institutions to re­
ceive air material, as a loan or 
permanent property, by the United 
Slates War Department. Two 
planes and three aeroplane engines 
together with all necessary instru­
ments have been requisitioned, and 
they are expected to arrive, in the 
near-future. One of these planes 
will be set up on the campus and ia to be used by the students in the Aeronautical Engineering Op­tion for study. The other plane will be dismantled by students for Complete analysis and study. The Mechanical Engineering Depart­
ment also plans to build an aero­plane instrument calibration room or laboratory which will be used •in connection with this work. Ar­
ia ngements have been made by Professor Blaisdell, of the Mechan­
ical Department, for visits to Rod­gers and Bettis Fields by the stu­dents in the Aeronautical course. 
Plans are also being completed for an inspection trip to the new plant cf the Fokker Aircraft Corporation 
of America at Glendale, West ^Vir­
ginia.During the past summer Profes­sor Blaisdell and Professor Trinks 
have traveled extensively in the interests of this new department at Carnegie. Professor Blaisdell vis­ited the Wright Field Laboratories, the Washington Navy Yard, the United States Bureau of Standards, Langley Field, New York Univer­
sity, Massachusetts Institute of Technology, University of Mich­
igan, the Curtiss Laboratories at Long Island, the Glenn-Martin fac­tory at Cleveland, and the Curtiss factory at Long Island. The object ot these visits was to obtain infor­mation and to inspect the different 
types of wind' tunnels and experi­mental methods used in testing aeroplane models. Professor Blais­dell inspected over twenty wind tunnels with throat sizes ranging 
from six incites to twenty feet.Professor Trinks obtained much \aluable information on experi­
mental methods during his visit to the laboratories of the University of Gottingen, in Germany. This laboratory is the foremost experi­mental laboratory in Europe. Plans are now being rushed for a new 
live-foot tunnel to be built at Car­negie Tech the first of next sum­mer. This tunnel will be housed in either Machinery Hall or in a separate building. A model tunnel one fifth the size of the large tun­
nel will be ¦ built immediately and experiments will be carried on to determine the details of the large tunnel. Plans have been received of the new five-foot tunnel at M. I. T., the eight-foot tunnel at the 
University of Michigan, and the nine-foot tunnel at Wright Field.There are twenty-nine students now registered for this course. At M. I. T., where the course has been in effect for the past ten years the enrollment is limited to thirty students.
Contrary to the belief of many, there will be no actual flying given as the army planes arc sent out 
with the understanding that they will be used for analysis only. It \< possible, however, that an R. O. T C. unit will be established where­by R. O. T. C. students will be given a three-month cotirsc in fly­ing, after graduation.
Despite the increase in tuition for the past two years the number of students registering at Carnegie hasXincrcascd quite steadily.
According to the latest report re­ceived from the office of the Regis­trar, which includes .the figures up . to 4 o'clock Thursday afternoon of September 27, the total day school registration was 2,383, showing an increase of 131 over the previous year and 229 over two years ago. Contrary to the past year's decrease in freshmen, the new registration shows an increase of 2S ifl new men, and a greater increase of upperclassmen who have not given up the ship.
Fifty-five per cent of the incom­ing freshmen are, in Enginccring- Industrics courses, or 348 in figures.In Arts there arc 174 new students Iand 135 in Margaret Morrison. In 1all 657 pew freshmen have come jhere. The Engincering-Industrics freshmen number 40 more than those of last year! Arts gained one; Margaret Morrison is the loser of 15.
The enrollment in Engineering increased from 434 in 1926 to 53(1 in 1927, and is now 571. Industries ] increased 11 men to 352; Arts has now 629 students as compared with 396 last year. Margaret Morrison has six more students, with a total number of 483.
, There are 657 freshmen, 64(1 j sophomores, 532 juniors and J5J 1 seniors] besides 27 sub-seniors. The night registration, which has quad­rupled in the last seven years, will be the largest since the institution has offered evening courses. Regis­trants come from every state "in the Union cxccpt six, and from j 14 different foreign countries. t
Tri-Pub. Staff Makes 
Plans For This Year
With the initial meeting of the 
Tii-Publications Staff, definite plans were made for more complete cam­pus publications than of any pre­vious year.
Work on the Student Directory began Monday when the sections' and statistical plans were decided upon. The Directory Ibis year will 
contain a separate faculty section which will make a unified book of al! members of the school and of the Administration. The Directory j will again contain a fraternity sec­
tion and a separate section for class officers.
The Carnegie Song Book will present several new features. The obsolete songs which have been published in the book from year to year will be dropped from the repertoire. New songs, such as, '•‘On, On, On, Carnegie” will bo added to the favorite older ones. New campus photographs will also be present in the index pages. ,
Considerable comment lias been heard, both upon and away from the campus, of the cover on this year's “Plebe Bible." The custom 
ci the college initial has been done away with and replaced by an en­
graved print of ^ Carnegie’s own Machinery Hall. This, along with the new cuts of this year’s Hand­book staff, has won mostly favor­able comment.
DRAMATS OPEN WITH 
“THE PARK HOURS”
All articles found on the campus or in the buildings should be turned in promptly to the Receiving Officc, in the basement of Administration Hall and next to the Postofficc. Lost articles should likewise be first inquired for at the same place.
The new reptile house of the zoological gardens in London has a snake hospital containing com­fortable beds, a resident physician, a diet kitchen, a battery of artifi­
cial sunlight, and an adjoining space where rare bugs arc raised for the patients’ food.
As the opening performance this 
year the Drama Department will produce “The Dark Hours", a pas­sion play written by Don Marquis. According to the announcement, Mr. Marquis will come on 'from) New York to attend the opening 
performance.
“The Dark Hours,” first pub­lished in 1925, has never been pro­duced. Mr. Marquis has consistent­
ly refused to allow production until he could assured that it would be produced “properly,” without change 
in script.
“The Dark Hours,” John Farrar, Editor of the Bookman wrote in reviewing the play, “is one of the few great dramas ever written in the United States. This is a book | that you, as an American, will be proud to own.”
Stuart P. Sherman wrote: “Hehas published a drama of poignant beauty, and memorable reality on 
the betrayal, trial and -crucifixion of Jesus. Whether any other poet in America could have approached his achievement on this theme, I do not know. No one has ....I believe this to be a great tragedy, greatly conceived and written with austere sincerity. The play should 
affect us as the tragedies of Acscliy- lus and Sophoclcs affccted the Greeks."
Professor Chester M. Wallace, 
hc-ad of the Department of Drama ] will be in charge of the production 
of “The Dark Hours.” The play will be staged about November 1.

---------------------------------------------------

THE CARNEGIE TARTAN
I will be back for the Cabaret Dinner Dance 
Friday evening, October 26th, at 7 P. M., at 
Webster Hall.
My check is enclosed for--------------tickets at
$2.50 each.
IBS Ir.i 385ES'If \tT?'M:T/~VrtATTAA:
JPPJJOPJlí i! j} ¿íji L‘
FORBES
NATIONAL BANK
Your Home Bank
STUDENT ACCOUNTS WELCOME
Fifth and Oakland Pittsburgh
[H3dil'ir i 'c7mm
ALUMNI OFFICE 
j RAMB LINGS
August 20, 1928. Dear Clan Members:
Well, here we are again, all set lo start off for ampthcr big year! There is one thing we want you lo do right .'away for us, so that your first issues of the Tarlan and fMumnus' will slarl the "YEAR J929" right.
ELECT YOUR CLAN OFFI­CERS AT ONCE SO THAT THE LISTS PR I NT ED J N THE MR ST rARTAN ALUMNUS WILL HE JORRECT.
Then there is another thing we wish you would do, not only at /our firkt meeting, but all through, he year—stress the importance and vajuc of paying alumni dues and subscriptions to Loyally Bonds. Dues payments and bond subscrip­tions include subscriptions to the Tartan and Alumnus and there is no better means of keeping in touch with your Alma Malcr than through these mediums which print all the school and alumni news. About forty per cent of our alumni were paid-up last year. Help us to bring the average up to the fifty 'nark, and to increase it year by year.
Last year’s alumni calendar held Iwo new events. Carnegie Dollar Day, which was inaugurated last year, is to become a tradition at C. J. T. It will be held annually on Carnegie £)ay (this year NO­VEMBER 23), and each alumnus and student is urged to contribute ONE DOLLAR (no more) to­wards the $4,000,000 Endowment 
Fund to be raised by 1946. Last year we received $600 on our first Carnegie Dollar Day, and our plans were made on very short notice, so that we hope to have a dollar from every one this year. Under the two-for-onc offer of the Car­negie Corporation a dollar contrib­uted now and put out at interest will mean about' $6 for Carnegie Tech in 1946.
Another new event on last year’s calendar is to be continued this year, but on a much larger-scale —ALUMNI HOMECOMING, to be held Friday and Saturday, Oc­tober 26 and 27., at the time of the .Pitt-lech football game. Instead or holding our class reunions in the spring as heretofore, they will bo held at this time; 1908, 1913, 1918, 1923, and 1928 are scheduled to return this fall. Committees from these classcs arc working on special plans now. The Homecom­ing Committee is making elaborate preparation for your entertainment on Friday and Saturday. There will be a big party Friday night, and an interesting football game Saturday afternoon with other gay events sandichcd in between these two big affairs.
At present we have three hun­dred and thirty-five subscribers to Loyalty Bonds. Last February we were able to turn over to the En­dowment' Fund Committee (he sum of $2,688.50, which was paid in on bond subscriptions over a period from July, 1926, to January, 1928. 
Remember that when you sub,-, scribe to a Loyalty Bond you are paying for ¦ a Jj>50 Life. Membership in the Alumni Federation for your* self and that only half of the .$100 goes to the Endowment Fuhd, The Night Student Council has pur­chased one bond, and the Southern California Clan has subscribed to one.
In the last two years the Wom­en's Carnegie Clan of Cleveland has sent in $150 each year to be contributed to the Endowment Fund.
In order to make the Alumni Page of the Tartan more interest­ing we shall need more news from the claiis. News for the Tartan must bo in the Alumni Officc on tl:: Friday morning preceding the, issue in which the items is to ap­pear. And may we urge that you send your news items to Miss An­drews in the Alumni Office, not to the Tartan. Mail sent to- the Tar­tan is collected by the student editor and sometimes in the press of other matters is mislaid. The student editor of the Tartan Alum­ni Page calls at the Alumni Officc every Friday for news. We will do our utmost to have all times printed on time.There will be the usual five is­sues of the Alumnus—October, De­cember, February, April (Directory), and June._ Material for these issues must be in the Alumni Officc not later than the tenth of the month preceding the date of issue, i. e., September 10, etc.
We urge you to send in all no­tices of meetings and items of in­terest about your members. If you are having a particularly large clan meeting have a picture taken of the group and send it to us.The Alumni Office will be glad to send you an up-to-date list of the alumni residing in your district if you will advise us what cities to include in your list.Now that we have told you all about ourselves, .tell us your plans for the year.Sincerely yours,Clarence Overend, Alumni Executive Secretary.
, M. M. A. A. Holds First
Business Meeting ,
The Annual Business Meeting I and Luncheon of the Margaret Morison Alumnae Association was held at the Congress of Clubs Sat­urday, September 22, 1928. After the luncheon, the annual meeting was called to order by the presi­dent, Josephine Whitney.
Roll call by classcs was as fol­lows: One present from classes of
1922, 1924 and 1923; two present fro n't classes 1911, 1914, 1915 and 1916; three present from class oi 1919; four present from class of 1927; five present from class of l‘>28. This made a'total of 23 out ot a Pittsburgh membership of 
475. Any clues as to where the missing 452 were will be appre­ciated by the secretary.
The minutes for the year 1927- 
1928 and the audited financial re­port were read by the Sccretary- J'rcasurer, Bernice Kruger Thorpe.
The reports of the committees were then given by the various 
chairmen^ •
Membership Committee — Bess 
Sharpley Gurley, chairman, gave a resume of the paid-up dues by classes, the class of 1916 ranking first. Only 37.9% of a Margaret 
Morrison Membership of 914 are paid up; 62.1% are delinquent. The chairman asked for better co-op­
eration of class representatives and plans to call stated meetings of ¦representatives for the purpose of 
bnnging up class percentages, at­tendance at alumnae functions and so forth. Class rcipresentativ.es were urged to send in class news to alumni officc.
Visitation Committee—In the ab­sence of the chairman, Miss Whit­ney reported that the results .of the questionnaire published in the June "Alumnus” could be referred to by the alumnae for specific de­tails. A copy of the report has been sent to Dr. Baker and Di­rector. Breed.
Scholarshipv Committee—Franees Keiser, chairman, reported that the , candidates for the scholarship were j all worthy girls. The awards were; 
made as follows: Florence Jenny was to receive Frances Camp Parry Memorial; Dorothy' Lutz, the Harriet Ellis Memorial, and a scholarship (additional this yearj given to Helen Booth.
Program Committee — Margaret Harrison Napier, chairman, out­lined the program for the ensuing year, 1928-29. The events are simi­
lar to. last year’s plan. Programs will be mailed by October 1.' Mrs. 
Napier asked for support of calen­dar events.
Nominating Committee for 1928- 29 is composed of Marion F. 
Burns, ’’1, Chairfnah; Gail Sellers^ Fcttkc, ’17, Frances Keiser, '27. >The desirability of starting an alumnae swimming class was dis­
cussed with the possibility of hav­ing gymnasium classes alternate weeks.’ The executive committee, would be pleased to have com­ments from members in order that plans can be made for instruction. Communications rihould be sent ito .Bernice K. Thorpe, Sccretary- Treasurcr, 2603 Ocean Avenue, 
Dormont, Pennsylvania!
The Alumni Home-coming was mentioned by the President. De­tails and further' information will appear in subsequent Tartans and notices from the Alumni Federa­tion.
Lillian M. Coleman, ’23/ Chairman of Publicity, M. M. A. A.
The first issue of the Alumnus for this year will be mailed out 
sometime during this week. Ac­cording to Miss Andrews, Alumni secretary, this initial number prom­
ises many and varied interesting features.
This first number will be sent 
to all Alumni, irrespective of whether or not they are paid up in their dues. The purpose of this plan is to get some of the im-
YOU ARE SUPPORTING 
THIS PAGE, CLANS,
LET’S HAVE NEWS!
It is time, to get busy now on cla.ii work for the year. The most important thing at present is to get your clan organized for the year. And then we will be expect­ing a great amount of news from you, continuously. Alumni all over the country arc interested to know what you arc doing, and their only means of obtaining such informa­tion is the Carnegie Tartan. The Ladder and the Clan News column depend entirely, for their success, upon the alumni themselves. We are interested in all that you can tell us concerning your meetings, parties, marriages, successes, etc. Now, clans get together on this, and as soon as possible seiid a list of your, new officers for a re­vised Clan Directory.
Don't forget the 1928 graduates in your district I
Cambridge, Mass.—Discovery of an unchaperoned woman in the building resulted in the closing of 
the. Harvard Liberal club.
The five summer resident mem­bers of the club -were ordered to find other living quarters. The club was oloscd on the. order of Regent Mathew, Luce, director of morals of the university.
portant news out to all Alumni.One special feature of the Alum­nus is a. cartoon by Cy Hunger- ford, on the cover. Another item of particular importance is the in­
stallation of a new department— “Foreign Alumnus.” The magazine will contain the "Class History of 1908" and the results of the Alumni 
Association Federation Board elec­tions «for 1928. In order to re­ceive the Alumnus for the entire 
year it is necessary to be a paid up member of the federation.
Special Notice Students
Let's Renew Old Friendship
We arc Ready at All Times to Solve Your Formal Problems. Rent a Tuxedo Suit and Accessories from us.
LATEST STYLESALL SIZES
Special Student Rates
Whittington Dress Suit Co.
6002-3-4 JENKINS ARCADE 
Day Phone Atlantic ?595 Night Phone Lafayette 4791-R
j THE LADDER i
!_____________________________j
Hubbard Kirkpatrick
Hubbard Kirkpatrick, former stu­dent in the dramatic course at Car­negie, and for three years associat­ed with the Goodman Theater, in Chicago, has been named to suc­ceed Bernard Szold as director of the Birmingham Little Theater.Mr. Kirkpatrick was chosen for the position from a group of eight applicants by the board -of direc­tors of the Little Theater at a meeting Monday afternoon, August 13. He was in coiifcrcncc with members of the board Tuesday morning, August 14. I-lc assumed his duties about September 1.Little Theater officials say Mr. Kirkpatrick is an actor of consid­erable experience and that he has played with Elsie Ferguson, Ethel Barrymore, Emily Stevens, Henry Miller and other popular stage characters.Mr. Kirkpatrick is in his early 30's jyid single.The board of directors of the Little , Theater declined several weeks ago to renew the contract of M r. Szold.
Herbert SpencerHerbert Spencer, associate prin­cipal of the Frick Training, school and since 1922 a part time mem­ber of the staff of the University of Pittsburgh in charge of prac­tice teaching in vocational educa­tion, has been appointed assistant professor of secondary education and director of teacher training in secondary education, and to suc­ceed Dr. W. W. D. Soncs, who has been appointed head of the University of Pittsburgh’s Erie center. The new director will be associated with Dr. Soncs in prac­tice teaching work on the campus this summer.Professor Spencer received his bachelor’s degree from Carnegie In­stitute of Technology and his mas­ter’s from the University of .Pitts­burgh.' He is at the present time completing requirements for his doctor’s degree. Before going to the Frick Training school as a_sso- ciatc principal, lie was vice princi­pal of the Latimer Junior high school.
Albert L; Martin
Installaton services for its new minister, Rabbi Albert L. Martin, were recently conductcd at the Park Avenup Teyiple,, Sunday after­noon, at whi^h Rabbi: Stephen S. Wise of New York City delivered the principal address.Among the invited guests were Rev. Dr. William Horace Day of the .United church, Rev. T. F. Rut­ledge Beale of the Park Street Congregational church, Rev. Dr. Herbert S. Brown, president of the Bridgeport Pastors’ Association, and Rabbi Sidney S. Tcdeschc of Congregation Mishkan .Israel, N.ew Haven.Rabbi Martin was born in Pitts­burgh in 1893. He was graduated from the Carnegie Institute ; of Technology in 1915 with a degree o'f Bachelor of Science.For ten years lie was engaged in engineering work for the New York Telephone Co. 'arid the Stand­ard Underground Cable Co. Dur­ing the' World war lie served in the Signal Corps in specialized work.: He was formerly ' president of Pittsburgh lodge, Independent Or­der B’nai Britli, the second largest lodge of its kind in the United States, with a membership of 1,500. He was actively engaged in philan­thropic and communal work of the synagogue in Pittsburgh.He was from 1921 to 1924 presi­dent of the Teachers’ Institute con­nected with the Council of Jew­ish Wojnen of Pittsburgh. This institute comprised over 250 teach­ers of Pittsburgh and its environs, representing Sundjiy schools,..with
Dining Room Orchestra will alter­nate with the Collegiate Six to give continuous entertainment.The committee in charge is com­posed of: Miss Charlotte Shuman, A ’22, chairman; Robert Schmcrtz, A ’21, and Logan T. Johnston, 1. They arc doing their utmost to
make the dance a success. All of j the details have not be<m decided i upon as yet, but they will be given in later issues of the Tartan on this page.When you send in your-reserva­tions for tickets to the big game, (Continued on page five)
University Restaurant
OPEN DAY AND NIGHT 
Home Cooking 
4605 Forbes St., Near Craig
a total enrollment of more than 3,000. In addition Rabbi Martin has done extensive organization work for the National Council of Jewish Women and the B’nai Britli.As a result of his keen interest in religious and philanthropic ac­tivities, Rabbi Martin, largely through Dr. Wise's influence, en­tered the Jewish Institute of Re­ligion in 1924. He graduated last June, being awarded the degrees of Rabbi and Master of Hebrew Liter­ature.Robbi Martin has occupied pul­pits at Amsterdam, N. Y., and in Waterbury. During the past year he assisted Rabbi Wise as director of field activities of the Jewish In­stitute of Religion.Although offered the position of assistant to Dr. Wise in his ac­tivities connected with the Free Synagogue and the Jewish Insti­tute of Religion, Rabbi Martin preferred to accept the call of the Park Avenue Temple as affording greater possibilities for communal service.Rabbi Martin is married and will make his home in Bridgeport.
Cabaret Dinner Dance To
Rank With Pitt Game
THETA TAU STARTS FALLPROGRAM NEXT WEEK
The first fall meeting of Nu Chapter of Thcta Tail, •national professional engineering fraternity, will be held in the chaptcr room in Engineering Hall on Thursday evening, October 4, at seven-thirty. Matters« of importance in starting the year’s program will be dis­cussed, and all members are re­quested to1 be present on time. Refreshments will be served.
The most important event of the Second Annual Alumni Homccom- ( ing will be the Big Carabret Din- j ncr Dance. This event will be held at Wcbstc: Hall, Friday eve­ning, October 26, at 7 p. m. Every alumnus who returns to school for any part o fthe Annual Homecom­ing should attend this dance. Every effort is being made to make this occasion one which will be remem­bered by all who attend.The Cabaret Dinner Dar.ce will be held in the main dining room of Webster Hall. This room will seat 350. The Spanish room, ad­joining, will- also be used. The dance is informal. Dinner will be served at 7 p. in., and will be $2.50 a plate.At the top of the page is a blank to be used in making reservations. Although there will be room for everyone,, it would be best to fill out this blank and send it in to the Alumni Officc immediately; then you will be sure of a ring­side scat at this, the greatest alumni dinner dance ever to be held. Fail­ure to attend this event, will rai 1: only with your failure to make Apha Beta Gamma while you were in school, and to securc a raise since you have started working.The old Collegiate Six of days gone by, will be there to furnish th? •music. Just think, a chancc to see - this band and hear your old favorite. They have promised to play some of the melodies' which were popular when you were in school. The regular Webster Hall
I EXITENTRANCE
*To prove Parke._ Duofold is n pen of lifelonn perfection, we offer to make good any defect, provided complete pen Is sent by the owner direct to the factory with 10c for return postage and intutancc.
ygj. Gtee.SfPariiirk
DUOFCLD PEN 
DE LUXE
ifw imarleit urtiiinj Jjiatruinesd you've ewraeeji
BLACK&VEARL
Non-Breakable Barrel—Pressureless Touch
and * Guaranteed Forever Against All Defects
Here’s a new De Luxe Duofold Pen in Black-and- 
Pearl, offering the handsomest writing equipment 
any lady or gentleman can possess.
Crystals of silvery pearl and Parker Permanite 
Material (Non-Breakable) must he delicately ar­
ranged to produce the moderne effect of this unique 
design.
Costly to produce—though not high-priced to you 
—and very beautiful.
Not duplicated anywhere else. A masterly 
achievement in a pen. Senior size, $10; Junior 
Size, $8.50; Juniorette or Lady, $7.50. Pencils to 
match, $3.50, $4 and $5.
Dealers are showing the new pens and pencils 
separately and in perfectly matched pairs, for the 
first time this year.
VOL .XI,NI .2C ARE2GXCST UXCNFH2YYNP B2FDRCF2C 
omctj AMD SUBSIDIARIES t NEW YORK • BOSTON • CHICAGO ' ATLANTA
DALLAS ' BAN FRANCISCO • TORONTO, CANADA • LONDON. ENGLAND
‘Kirker
Duofold Deluxe
WmCfAS comes inWaste goes out
Gas, the modern fuel—think what it 
means to your plant.
Think of the storage space gas saves. 
Think of the man-power it conserves.
Think, too, of the interest it saves. No 
capital tied. up in fuel storage, for gas 
is not paid for until after it has been used.
And again—think of the cleanliness—the 
elimination of soot and dust—the better 
working conditions—the increased effi­
ciency of employes.
Above all—think of the perfect control 
which gas heat affords—the extreme flex* 
ibility—the absolute dependableness.— » 
Visualize the better product this makes 
possible—the lessened spoilage—the in­
creased production.
V V V
And remember, whether your own plant 
is large or small, gas offers you all these 
fundamental advantages, all these basic 
economies. Telephone or write to your 
local gas company; they will gladly show 
you exactly what these advantages and 
economies can mean to you.
For free copy of book, “Industrial Gas Heat”, address
American Gas Association
420 Lexington Avenue, New York City 
YOU CAN DO IT BETTER WITH GAS
Electricity
opens a new era of ocean travel
¡Miraculously quiet and vibration- 
less, luxurious and swift, the new 
electrically operated S. S. Califor- 
]iua, largest American-built pas­
senger ship, has opened a new era 
in ocean travel.
Electricity drives the California so 
¡efficiently that the fuel bill for the 
initial coast-to-coast trip was 
even less than the Canal tolls. 
Electricity mans the winches, (i®? 
\ bakes the bread, makes the v!b* 
ice, polishes the silver. And 
'electricity cools the 
cabins and provides
comforts found in the finest hotels.
This monogram is found on great motors that drive the CnUfornia, anti on n multitude of elcctric appliances which contribute to the
passengers with >. the £¡¡£3and high manufacturing quality.
Complete electrification makes the 
California an engineering marvel 
and a: commercial success; it is 
booked j far f in advance, a sister 
ship has just been launched, and 
another is under construction.
It . ¦On sea or land, in every walk of 
life, electricity is in the van 
of progress.Undreamed of 
yesterday, the electric ship is 
a symbol of the electrical in­
dustry’s part in modem rivil-j 
ization and a prophecy 
of j even J greater « ac­
complishment.'
6-27DÏT1 *GENERAL ELECTRIC-
¡GENERAI ELECTRIC COMPANY,

---------------------------------------------------

MlliMD 0124 
012 i OI2C
îlbe Carnegie flMaib
A Section of the Tartan Devoted to the Night Students
Aeronautical engineering classes, 
headed by Lieut. E. D. Kroger, 
U. S. N. R., with plane parts from 
the U. S. Navy air station at San 
Diego used for demonstration pur­
poses, are in the program of the 
College of Engineering of the Uni­
versity of Southern California.
NEW PARKING 
REGULATIONS ISSUED
MICALarge Oil Supply Still 
RemainsCRAIG RESTAURAN
412 South Craig Street 
TRY OUR 
REGULAR DINNERS 
40c and 50c
Î Idle Thoughts of an Idle Night Student jUsed For Insulation Purposes in 
Electrical Field.
Mica holds a very important place in the Electrical Industry for insulating high voltage apparatus, and is the best insulator known. .Mihoiigh there are various grades :;f Mica, the two principal grades of any' commcrcial value are the 
Muscovite or White Mica, and the Philogopite or Amber Mica.• Mica occur« principally in plates without any shape, and varying in size from small scales to plates of 
•considerable si/.c._Most of the plates mined are cross grained and contain various ¡•impurities, ihese imperfections ac­count for the small percentage, of Mica suitable for electrical insula­tion, of the total quantity mined about 20 per cent is actually used tor insulation.After blasting, the mica blocks ore separated from the rock by means of sledge hammers, tlie blocks which ¦ look promising are held for the cobbing operation, by which the foreign material, soft, brittle and otherwise defected pieces lire rejected, the good material is lield for the thumb' trimming arid sorting.The cvo3s grained and hard split­ting mica is used for the punching of washers, the good clear free .splitting mica is ready for the «hear, or knife trimmirig, from the .trimmers it is sorted into various
Estimates Far Too Low Ac­
cording to Expert Opinion.Enrollment Quadrupled in 
. Seven Years.All predictions . thus far about America’s oil • ¡supply have been proved to be understatements, ac­cording to the Oil Heating In­stitute, 420 Madison Avenue, New York. In a recent publication en­titled, "What About tlie Supply of Fuel Oil?” the institute asserts that, notwithstanding increased de­mands due to the popularity of the automobile and the household oil heater, our petroleum reserve should prove ample for generations to come. Discovery of new oil fields and scientific improvements in working petroleum deposits arid preventing waste have conclusively contradicted the early prophecies of an oil famine. Estimates of reserves made as late as 1926, it is stated, have proved far lob low. Bj' 1930 California alone will haVe produced more oil thas the entire visible supply was supposed to be in 1923.
Final registration evenings for the night courses of the Carnegie 'Institute of Technology will be held on Wednesday, Thursday and Friday of-this week. Classes in the evening courses at Carnegie are scheduled to begin on the follow­ing Monday evening, October 8.Although night student enroll­ment at Carnegie has almost quad­rupled in. the past seven years, with i,102 registered in 1921-22, and 3,S26 enrolled last year, officials of the Institute estimate, that iiguies this year, the twenty-fourth since night school classes were inaugu­rated at Carnegie Tech, will set a new record. Last year’s tot.al was the largest since evening courses were first offered in 1905.Hundreds of applications for admission to the non-requisite courses in the College of Indus­tries were filed in the office of Registrar Alan Bright during the past summer, while large numbers have, also applied for admission to the College of Engineering and the College of Fine Ar.ts. Officials have also discovered by means of ques­tionnaires, that approximately a third of last year’s students have already 'planned to return to their studies this year.An important factor in the in­creased interest in the evening courses this year, Carnegie officials point out, is the recent system of co-operation effected wjtli more than 40 Pittsburgh districts firms that have appointed from one to Ihrec officials within their own or­ganizations lo serve as "assistant deans,” in registered Carnegie-night students. Pittsburgh employers, it is pointed out, arc taking keen in­terest in the' opportunities for their employes to acquire adult education- and have taken extraordinary meas­ures during the past year to assist employes to enroll in evening 
courses at Carnegie Tech ajjid '.'in other institutions. The chief pur­pose in enlisting the co-operation of the employers in assisting em­ployes' to enroll as night students, however, Carnegie officials indicate, is not to increase the enrollment primarily but to help employes to 
take courses that will be- of the maximum benefit to1 the employes themselves.. While many of1 the' Carnegie Tech evening courses are offered to college .and high school graduates, the majority arc for students with limited education who wish to b.oaden their knowledge and to gain additional technical training.In' the College of Engineering, the regular courses leading to a diploma are given to graduates of high school, or an equivalent training, in chemistry, and in civil, electrical,, mechanical and metal­lurgical engineering, as well as spe­cial courses in these subjects.The growth of the night courses in the College of Industries is ap­parently a direct reaction to the many needs they meet/ Regular courses for a certificate of profi- cicncy arc given in the building trades, such as plumbing, architec­tural drafting, masonry, bricklaying and concrete work; ' estimating (building construction), electrical equipment and construction, heat­ing and ventilating, structural draft­ing, carpentry, sheet metal work, and electric wiring. The machin­ery trades courses include mechani­cal drafting, pattcrnmaking, foun­dry. machine shop practice and forging and heat treatment of steel. Other courses arc practical chem­istry, storage batteries, welding, (Continued on Page 6)
Savings represent much, more than mere money value. They arc the proof that the saver is worth sompthing in himself. Any fool can waste; any fool can meddle, but it takes something more of a man to save, and the more .he saves the more of a man he makes of him­self. Waste and extravagance un­settle a man’s mind for every ^crisis; thrift, which means ^sonie form of self-restraint, steadies it.—Rudyard Kipling.
The split,tings are very thin from .0005 to .001 and arc packed in boxes of 200 pounds to a box.India takes first place in the production and produces more than all other countries of the world ¦Together, then comes Canada, Uni­ted States, East Africa. ' Brazil, Ar+ gent ilia, Central Amen'ca, Mexico, Norway, Siberia, South Africa, Ja­pan and China. Mica mining is very uncertain, to extract the Mica from the rocks great care must be taken not to drill into the Mica, but to blast the feldspar and quartz surrounding it, it' requires the handling of about 200 tons of dirt to obtain 1,000 pounds of good »urea, the underground' method of mining is much more expensive than the. surf ate method.Scrap mica from the various op­erations, can be applied for otherapplications, as axle grease, fire­proof shingles, wall paper and paints. The value of mica split­tings is based on the area whichit covers, the uniformity in thick­ness, clearness, clean cut edges free from points and narrow strips, and (lie case with which it can be sep- ar.y.lerj, This make's' the' Book fdrni •|,hc. most valuable for hand build- 1 j.n'gj' and the loose packed for Tower building.The harclncss of mica is a factor taken into consideration, when grad­ing for various applications. The amber being the softer than white, is particularly adapted for com­mutator segments where the mica is not undercut. The scale from the softest to the hardest arc:Clear transparent Silver Amber.Dark Brown and Yellow Aniucr.Wine colored Amber.Soft Green Madras and Calcutta.Ruby India. •
Hard Green and Brown Madras.Green Brown East Africa.Green domestic mica.J'he amber mica in general will stand a higher heat than the white,• it will stand a temperature of 800 to lOPQ degrees Centigrade, and the white 500 to 600 Centigrade, that is bef.ore dehydration sets in, after dehydrating the splittings become silver white, lose their transparency, bc.come brittle, can easily be pow­dered and have no insulation value, for a single splitting .001 will stand about 60()0 volts, before1 dehydrat­ing. after it will break down at J000 volts.
The dielectric strength for mica used as insulation should' be -crv •high, expense is not spared in sc- ruring the best qualities, because the value of the insulation cost of a large generator is only about 2 per cent of the total costj where as a dcfcct or a poor quality of the insulation means a short life or a complete breakdown of the machine. The average tests on white mica splittings show about 5,000 volts per mill, on the amber splittings * about 4,000 volts per mill, therefore white mica is being• used for all high voltage insulation.The hand building method takes in all Jlcxibie mica wrappers and 'neater plate, to add mechanical . strength to the flexible wrappers. Fish paper, treated cloth, treated .•cment paper, fullerboard and Jape 
(Continued on Page 6)
WELL PLAYED, SIR!M1'. Orbin replied as follows: Dear Mr; McDonald:I have ‘ your commu si cation', of July 14 in reference to parking and police protection.The parking regulations are. Sii effect, as follows: No cars arc to be. parked in the central driveway of the Campus between the flash­lights. On the street adjacent tJ the park all cars are to be parked at right angles with the rear to the. park as a matter of safety. No parking is permitted on the opposite, sidti of the street. There arc no ‘other restrictions • on the ground except the ordinary com­mon sense regulations at curves.As to police protection,. I am sorry that we arc unable to do anything along this line. Quite a number of complaints have been made, about cars and parts having bees stolen jn. daylight. In fact, several" cars and* parts have' been stolen on the road ¦ directly outside my office window. They will even steal cars parked in front of the Police Department. Unless , you would happen to sec Some one snapping off the lock of a machine, it would be very difficult to tell who the owner of the car is. About 11 o’clock one morning last spring the writer saw ’ two boys who looked suspicious working on a car and was informed that they were 
students of the Automobile Dept, which proved to be' the case. The (Continued on Page 6)
On their cricket fields many generations oj English­
men have been imbued, with the very highest prin­
ciples oj sportsmanship. With these discriminating 
gentlemen the BBB Own Make briar pipes have 
been accepted as the traditional Javorite.
Most sportsmen enjoy to the full the good things of life. For 
generations BBB Own Make briars have been carefully 
selected, appreciatively smoked, and fondly cared for by 
particular pipe smokers.
BBB Own Make pipes arc masterly made, as always, of 
the choicest century-old briar »oot. Each combines—in those 
distinctive shapes that appeal to fastidious tastes—cxpcrtncss 
of manufacture and perfect smoking qualities. The traditional, 
cool mellowness is assured by the famous old individual-bak­
ing pr6ccss, exclusive with BBB Own Make.
BBB Own Make briar pipes are made either in the highly 
polished smooth finish or in the sand-blasted ripple finish, all 
with the red diamond on the stem. The price of each is $5. 
Wm. Demuth & Co., New York, Chicago, San Francisco. 
Established 1862.
Good Catering 
is Priceless
No deeper expression of 
faith and confidence in 
our catering is conceiv­
able than the contin­
ued repeat patronage of 
those we have served.
¿Mànus and estimates 
submitted without obligation. 
Phont us for suggestions.
GENNRALC T I-EcRTlty
Let’s Go To
TECH
Barber Shop
FOR OUR HAIR CUTS
CORNER FORBES & CRAIG 
STREETS
Recommended
by the English Department of
Carnegie Institute of Technology
OGNSCHENLEY
HAND
LAUNDRY
The Best Abridged Dictionary—Based upon
GEBITER’I NEG INTERNATIONAL
A Short Cut to Accurate Information. Here is a companion for your hours of reading and study that will prove its real value every -time you consult it. A wealth of ready information on words, people, places, is instantly yours. 106>000 words with definitions, etymologies, Pronunc‘at*ons and use in its 1,256 pages. 1’^.00 illustrations. Includes dictionaries of biography and geography and otherspecial features. Printed on Bible Paper.
S?r at Y°ur College Bookstore or 'Write \ for Information to the Publishera.
G. & C. MERRIAM CO.
\ Springfield, Mats. A
W. Y. ART, Prop.
418 S. CRAIG ST.
We Laundry AnythingStrip, tucccssor to 
ink, makes all pens 
write better, and 
the Lifetime pen 
write beet
STUDENT TAKE NOTICE
Special Rates For You At
TECH TAILORS
CLEANING, PRESSING AND TAILORING
“Come In and See STEIN”
Mayflower 7795 325 S. Craig St.
We Call and Deliver
Identify the Ufetim« pen by this white dfltAll Makes of Typewriters, New and Used 
Sold—Rented—Repaired
GENR ALRR CTI-wNLR-N CE., Inc.
Royal Portable Distributors—COURT 8320 
New Main Store 
McCloy Bldg. Branch Store
624 LIBERTY AVE. 428 FOURTH AVE.
It’s unfortunate but true, that never in all the 
history of America have there been more nu­
merous and daring burglaries than now.
Your modern robber uses his head. He finds out 
in advance where he is most likely to find loot.
The chances are in your favor if you have your 
securities, valuable papers, etc., in one of our safe deposit boxes.
The cost is trifling.
Students of America have overwhelmin&ly 
chosen Sheaffer pens and pencil* as their favorites. 
A sure performer, always unconditionally 
guaranteed, free of all repair charges, Sheaffer’s 
Lifetime“ pen has been picked at the choice of 
forty-one per cent of America’s leading univer­
sities and colleges. Its dependability means 
economy, genuine pleasure and the ability to 
produce easily three clear carbons of letters, notes, 
etc. And Titan is the perfect pencil companion.
"Lifetime” pen, $8.75 Lady "Lifetime”, $7.50 Others lower 
41Lifetime” Titan ovcrtizc pencil to match, $4.25 
At better stores everywhere
ALL CARNEGIE FOOTBALL MEN
WEARWe sell and rent all makes 
of typewriters. Portable and 
Standard Machines.
See our Big Supply and get 
special student rates.CARNEGIE PLAID MACKINAWS
Sold Exclusively to Carnegie. Students 
—BY—
ALBERT G. RALL
SPECIAL REPRESENTATIVE
SHOWING AT SKIBO INN—OCT. 10-11
A Law and Finance Bldg. Atlantic 8947
Oakland Savings & Trust Co
“THE OAKLAND BANK”SHEAFFER’«?
W PENS* PENCILS • SKRIPStandard Typewriter 
Company
129 FIFTH AVENUE 
Atlantic 0342
W.A.SHEAFFW PEN COMPANY • FORT MADISON,IOWAMember Federal Reserve System
Where Mevran Crosses Forbes Street
TUESDAY, OCTOBER 2, 1928.THE CARXEGIE TARTAN

---------------------------------------------------

THE CARNEGIE TARTAN
legie Engineers Shine 
Summer ROTC Camp
Individual Honors Won Bc- 
Ics First Placc in Platoon 
Drill.
jty-five students of the ad- i course in Reserve Officers’ ,;ng Corps attended summer inyx.camp at the engineers ,) a I Ft. Humphrey’s, Va., from k 15 to July 26, and once more inguishcd themselves as XHD11 as 
pegie in their work, 
t. Humphreys is located about iiiiles nprtb of Washington, D. 
ajii tlie Jelferson Davis Highway I is devoted., entirely to the En­tering Corps. Nine colleges and tarsi ties were represented in the up of students, John Hopkins, .in Stale, Carnegie, West Vir- 
iia, Missouri, schools of mines, iitbiij, Massachusetts Tech, Vir- ary institute and the olytechnic Institute, 
und Carnegie formed the lour platoons and was capable command ^ of 
Arrowsmith of the Car- 
military Staff, o usual proceeding is the is- ulg of clothing and bedding, the Tiysical examinations were patient- j endured for the lirst few days ¡ter which everyone began to en- ^y the real advantages of the 
|i»p.In spite of the rain, which lasted I helically the whole lirst week, in- j Vetion was carried on indoors, 
fiefi. began live weeks ofr enjoy- )le. work. Bridge construction 
id equitation occupied the time (e lirst week, the latter furnish- JgV many amusing situations. A >iior roll was established upon bicli only the names of those io had "been removed from the {Idle at the will of the horse.” : The week spent 011 Lorlon Range j In practice and record rifle firing ;was perhaps the most tedious week | 
nil ring the time spent at Ft. Hum-j jphieys, but at the same time it provided an excellent opportunity ¦.tor the student to distinguish him- ICelf.i Henry Dilt/. proved to be 
’ the most expert rifleman in camp,1 riling the highest score out of the 
’ 200 attending the camp. .The en­tire platoon iired well, taking lirst 5]ace in the general average.During the following week the 
latooh lired on the pistol range, ¿his proved much easier and in- 
•.resting than the work of the prc- jding week. Three Carnegie men 
I'on the title of expert, Russell Jrocious, Henry Diltz and John 
Joyd.fc> On July 19, one of the hottest 1 days of the summer, was the day that the overnight hike was sched­uled. Carrying light packs, rifles, the entire body set out shortly 
¦¡iflcr breakfast for the McElroy Farm, about nine miles north. Mobilization problems, bridge con­
struction and extended order drill, were studied en route, periodic 
flops being made for rests. Dar­ling the afternoon the men were al­lowed their liberty, and that eve­ning after parade and mess, the I Thirteenth Engineers’ Band gave a 
\('concert on the lawn of the Mc­Elroy homestead.' Colonel McEl­
roy is a veteran of the Civil War. j As has always been the custom, 10 , men were designated at the | close of the camp as "Honor Men” j and Carnegie was represented by 
i( Daniel Defenbacher and Lewis , Ewarts. Both men showed tliem- vdvcs to be particularly capable in ihc various duties. The choice' :>f these men are made on a basis' :>!' percentage in the following pcr- 
‘onal qualities: Discipline, interest, mcrgy, intelligence, military bear- 
,ng, adaptability, leadership, judg­ment, self-reliance and tact. Each nan is closely observed by all offi- hers and instructors and grades are liven at various times. The first •Intoon had three of the 10 honor lien, the third being Charles Vyalh, jr., of John Hopkins.* The final review, held 011 July ‘i, was a very impressive one. .'lie 10 .honor men and those who i'ore to receive the reserve officers |’ nmmissions, took their places with 
i the reviewing officers. Each was : then presented with his respective; ; award, and then with the Thir­teenth Engineers Band playing the ¦lielody familiar to every Carnegie I ir.d Hopkins man as “On Car­negie,” the entire R. O. T. C. unit ' ;assed in review.
| With the completion of the ccre- I nony the competitive drill was 1 held. This particular event, is per- 
; ‘.taps the most severe test of mili- tary training that the platoons are i given, and under the commond of "Dan”. Defenbacher, the Carnegie- llopkins platoon won the first I placc.
That evening the mess hall was the scene of the final get-together c.f the. four platoons. A sumptuous banquet was served, followed by I short addresses by the officers of ! the staff. ( An orchestra, organized 
during the camp period, furnished I music during the banquet.This year an Honor Platoon was not named, although the records indicate the Carncgie-Hopkins j group would have received the honor.
On Thursday, July 26, the last i ¡'ssembly was held followed imme­
diately by payroll and dismissal. The 1927 Summer Camp had bc- come history.
In Milwaukee, Rochester and Co­lumbus, gas is used in the baking of japan enamel or lacqucr.
Hoover Favorite
At Carnegie Tech
In the student straw vote for the presidential candidates taken last week by the Tartan, Herbert Hoover received 220 votes to A1 Smith’s 132; a ratio of five to three. Although this result repre­sents but a small portion of the Carnegie student body, statistics prove that the ratio is practically the same as it would be if all the students had voted. The results of the Carnegie vote are to be sent in to College Humor, with which the Tartan is co-operating 011 a nation-wide ballot to deter­mine the voting preference on the two candidates in the American college communities. As soon as the country-wide survey is com­pleted and the votes of the scpa.- ratc colleges are collected by Col­lege Hunipr, the results will be 
Pi.blished 111 the Tartan.
Very few Carnegie students took the trouble to indicate a presi­dential preference in this straw vote. If the qualified voters of the United States show as little interest as did the students on the Carnegie campus, the election may establish a record in percentage of non-voters. Perhaps, however, the united appeals of all the parties will be successful in urging all qualified voters to register and vote. From all other indications, many citizens will vote in this election who have never done so before.
Signal Corps ROTC Men 
Enjoy New Jersey Camp
Camp opened Friday, June 15, and most of the day was spent in the opening. Carious sizes, shapes, and styles of students arrived from all points of the compass in all manner of conveyances, from army trucks to collegiate "cadillacs.” The major part of .the first day was spent in drawing equipment and so-called clothing and in being condemned by the surgeon.After comparing notes with each other, our knowledge and lack of knowledge of the Signal Corps tac­tics was found to be most amazing. Usually the "brains" would be as­signed to construction gangs and the "brawn” to radio sets and message centers. Having (theoret­ically) learned all about the various means of communication, we work­ed 011 fieldl) problems from July 10 to 18; this was more enjoyable as it was more nearly like the real thing. A change came in the shape of a division field problem at Locust Grove and vicinity. Our work wound up with a complete problem with heavy traffic, from 9 until 12:30 p. 111. 011 the twenty- lirst. Having apparently defeated the "Reds” with little .regret we tore up our most "comfortable”: shelter and came back to Ft. Mon­mouth considerably wiser in many scores.For the lighter side of camp— Wednesday and Saturday after­noons as well as »Sundays were" observed as holidays and several trips were planned for our en­joyment. , On Saturday, June 23, a trip was made to Ft. Hancock, where ¿lie whole works was in­spected, comments, photos and cas­
ualties.. _ The searchlights, coast guns, mine casemates, and in fact, every detail was observed with much interest.The best trip of all was on July 11, when all day was spent in in­specting the A. T. & T. plant in New York City. Our transporta­tion consisted of a mine layer and the huge amount of. nautical and descriptive language displayed on board Iwws highly instructive to the casual observer.The last, trip was made Sunday, •July 15, to Lakchurst, where, need­less to say, everyone swarmed all over the Los Angeles (as much as permitted). Most of the bunch is exceedingly interested in avia­tion, so this was an especial trip. Another thing that was very in­teresting was the airplane com­munication demonstration, when ""a plane talked with a ground station by radio phone. The plane also picked up from the ground sev­eral messages by the "fish hook” method, and dropped some in re­turn.Organized athletics were encour­aged, but the major, portion, of the bunch apparently would rather amuse themselves otherwise. The recreation time was all spent, how­ever, judging by the sleepy looks in evidence every morning. Three dances were held, 011 June 29, July 9, and July 24.Camp was demobilized on July 26, and by noon all had been paid and had gone. In conclusion, may 1 say “God bless the man who invented K. P. (you know w.hat 1 mean)—but it Was a very enjoyable summer, just the same.
Dr. Baker Member 
of Committee of U. S. 
Chamber of Commerce
Dr. Thomas Stockham Baker, president of the Carnegie Institute of Technology, has been appointed a member of the National Water Power Policies Committee of the United. States Chamber of Com­merce, it is announced, to investi­gate "what can be done to put to productive work the 47,000,000 un­developed horsepower locked in the lakes and rivers of the United States.”
Other members of the special committee arc Frederick A. Delano, former member of the Federal Reserve Board and railway exec­utive, Washington, chairman; Chris­tie Bcnct, general counsel, inter­state Cotton Seed Crushers' Asso­ciation, Columbia, S. C.; Frank. P. Glass, publisher and editor, Mont­gomery Advertiser, Montgomery, Ala.; David C. Henny, consulting engineer,'Portland, Ore.; Alexander Legge, president, International Har­vester Company; Chicago; Charles H. MacDowell, president, Armour Fertilizer Works, Chicago; Frank i. Mann, Bois d’Arc Farm, Gilman, ill.; Warren .Olncy, Jr., attorney, San Francisco; Lewis B. Stillwell, president, L. B. Stillwell Construc­tion Corporation, New York City; General Harry Taylor, former chief of engineers,' U. S. A., Wash­ington.
Water is playing an increasingly important part in the shaping of national economic destiny, the an­nouncement points out, yet the country is without comprehensive policies in regard to its use. Water power development has - jumped from 7,926,958 horsepower in 1921 to 12,300,000 horsepower. Total resources arc placed at 59,000,000 horsepower.
The committee will begin its work next month, it is announced.
228 SUCCEED IN , America Possesses 
FINE ARTS TESTS! New Status In Music
MR. LEIGHOU SPEAKS OVER 
KDKA ON SUBJECT
OF NIGHT COURSES
Mr. Leighou, Associate Director, of Night School, spoke ovèr’KDKA last Saturday evening at 7:15 011 “Associate Deans of Night Courses.” Mr. Leighou spoke as a member of the Committee which is sponsor­ing the Company Advisory Plan among the Pittsburgh companies. Over forty-three large companies, including Westinghouse Elcctrjc, Koppers and Union Railroad, have "deans” to urge their employes to attend night school; also to see that they enroll in the course for which they are .best fitted;
Part of Mr. Leighon's talk was in variance with the survey which Professor Thorndike . of Columbia has prepared on the adult attend­ance of night school, maintaining that older men and women can learn as well as the younger stu­
dents.
System, of Giving Technical Exams Found to Serve Its Purpose j Well.
Of 236 students who took the j Arts School . Technical . tests, , 228 were accepted. Last year, the number taking and passing the tests was 230.Results of technical tests givenj| by the Arts School are certainly not indicative, of their eliminating powers. The exclusion of students who might have entered if 110 tests were given cannot be meas­ured in numbers. Mere mention of the examinations restricts the I number of applicants. Many with­out ability who would have en­tered, had their entrance depended only upon the payment of the tuition fee, learn that sonic talent is required for admission to' the Arts School. Knowing that they have none, these would-be. students do not even go to the trouble of applying for admission. They bar themselves automatically. This is often the situation with those' who live in Histant states, who are un­willing to go to the »expense of . coming to Pittsburgh and Taking the tests if they are not confident of their ability.No Arts students, except the architects, are admitted to Car­negie Tech without having taken the technical test.. Those living at distant points sometimes Wish to have their entrance guaranteed and thus avoid the expense of coming here in the face of pos­sibility of refusal. Such exceptions are never permitted.The Architect’s «freshman year is considered his technical test. At. the end of that year, if he does not come up to the standards, lie is dropped. The system of Tech­nical Tests was begun at a time when the various departments^were becoming overcrowded. Previously, all who applied for admission were accepted. When a reduction in the enrollment was necessary, the technical tests were adopted.' The effects Were immediately noticeable.The number of freshmen ac­cepted in the College, of Fine Arts was 164. The number of freshmen passing the Painting, and Decorat­ing test exceeded that of any other group. After the P&D group came the architects, followed by the music students, the dramatic students, and the sculptors.The registration this year in tlie College of Fine Arts totals 591 which exceeds the registration of last year by 18.
MOVEMENT TO IMPROVE 
CAMPUS PARKING 
REGULATIONS BEGUN
The Student Council, at its last meeting, indorsed a movement started by several members of the faculty, to better the parking regu­lations prevalent oil the campus. The Night ,School Student Senate and the Welfare Committee of- the faculty have, been asked to co­operate. The intention .of the com­mittee is to make an appeal to the students asking them to park, closer together so that those who come for later classes are,, not forced to park outside the ca'mpus. The cus­tom of parking at an oblique-angle to tlie curb so as to take ' up as much space as possible, is unneces­sary and a violation^of the motor­ists’ code. The police have prom­ised their co-operation, but an ap­peal to the students should cer­tainly be all that is necessary.
PI DELTA EPSILON
DISCUSSES MEETING OF HIGH SCHOOL EDITORS
Pi Delta Epsilon, national jour­nalistic honorary fraternity, held a meeting last Thursday night at the Sigma Alpha Epsilon fraternity!house. Several important questionswere discussed, among them a pro­posed new directory. It was de­cided to add a faculty section to: this year’s edition.The leading question discussed!was the feasibility of conducting a convention of high school editors and business managers, the con­vention to be an annual affair held] at Carnegie. School co-operation 
is greatly desired in this endeavor. It was also decided to favor the printing of a new song book, with several major changes from the previous one.The Pi Delta Epsilon Dance, which was -held in the Union last Friday evening, was a great suc­
cess.
To err is human, and so is talk­ing about oneself. People prefer talking of themselves to others'than to hearing others introspect out loud, and they take just as great delight in singing the praises of their country.During his relatively short life, the American eagle has done Ins share of shrieking about himself,, 
and yet there have been times | when he has, with commendable modesty, depreciated' his own vir­tues or admitted superiority, in others. jOne peculiarly apt illustration concerns the position of the Amer­ican people in the world of music. For a number of years perfectly loyal Americans * have contended that Americans as a nation do not love music as do. some of the peoples of Europe. American tour­ists who have heard the great com­munity , song festivals held an­nually in Wales have ' lamented their absence in the United States, and American visitors to- Germany reproach their own country be­cause grand opera is more profit­able in small German tow-ns than in the largest American cities.That these criticisms are unjust is self-evident. A more music-lov­ing people than this is inconceiv­able. Folk songs and opera con­certs may be more popular abroad than here, but these are necessarily -few in number even in Europe, while a constant stream of music is poured into the American home by the piano, radio, photograph and other musical instruments. It is significant that the world’s larg­est manufacturers of musical instru­ments have their factories in the United States and that this country spends billions annually in the music stores found in every town that can boast, of. two or more cross-roads.Because this country does not woo Orpheus in the manner to which he is accustomed^ across the waters, it is not to be presumed the god of music is better courted, abroad.
WOMEN’S GLEE CLUB MEETS 
TUESDAY, 4:36; CALL MADE 
FOR NEW MEMBERS
Student Council Holds 
First Meeting of Year
• Student Council held its first meeting of the year Tuesday, Sep­tember 25. Several important mat­ters were up for consideration, and thre* standing committees reported definite progress. Jack Barr, chair­man of Plebe Regulations, reported that arrangements have been made, to meet freshmen deserving exemp­tion from regulations' in the Student Council office at noon on Wednes­day, September 26. » Miss Tedrow reported • that the Social Committee had met 'last June and had ar­ranged the social event’s program for the coming year. It. was also announced at the same time that football dances will'be held in the Union on the following dates: Oc­tober 6, 13, 20, November. 3 and 
24.Mr. Shaffer of Industries sent in a ^request for authority to use the name of Student Council in con­junction with that of the Faculty Welfare Committee on cards to be distributed for the purpose of im­proving crowded parking conditions on the campus. Council approved 
this action.The Tartan and the cheerleaders’ 
budgets were brought up fqr con­sideration but voting on the former was postponed until a later date. Council approved the* expenditure necessary to send the cheerleaders 
to the Youngstown game.
By Sara E. Wonders 
Fritz Kreisler, violinist, will open 
the Pittsburgh concert season at 
Carnegie Music Hall, Friday, Oc­
tober 5. Krcislcr’s tour .this season 
will be brief, .as lie will return to 
Europe before' the holidays. Mr. 
Kreisler’s program will appear in 
the Pittsburgh papers this week. 
Although he has made numerous 
annual appearances in Pittsburgh, 
his concert this week is anticipated 
with great interest. This event is under the management of May Beeglc.
Bortz Concerts
James R. Bortz, manager of the De Luxe concerts, will present several new artists in his scries this season at Carnegie Music Hall. Harold Bauer and Ossip Gabrilo- witsch will give a duo piano re­cital Thursday evening, October 25.
The second concert is the Adolpk 
Bolm Ballet Monday ' evening, No 
vember 12, presenting a uniqu< 
program of both classic and forcigi dances. The third event present« Aline. Maria Olszcwska, leadinjj contralto of the Vienna State Opera Company, Friday, December 14 
Toscha Seidel, violinist, will giv* the fourth concert. The Revellers a foremost singing organization ot the day, will present the fifth con­cert.
Becgle Concerts
The May Bcegle concerts will open at Syria Mosque this season with a concert by Mine. Louise Homer, contralto, and her daugh­ter, Louise Homer-Stires, Wednes­day evening, October 24, Other celebrities in this course of eight events include Josef Hofmati, pian­
ist; Doris Niles and Spanish ballet, with symphony orchestra; Rosa Raisa and Giacomo Rimini, soprano and baritone of the Chicago Grand Opera; Benjamin Gigli, Metropoli­tan -tenor; Albert^ Spalding, violin­
ist; Sigrid Onegrin, contralto, and Rosa Ponsclle, Metropolitan Opera soprano.
Introduction by a friend" is usually the safest way to make new acquaintances.. For about fifteen years this paper has in­troduced its students to a de­pendable “Service Station” for Invitations, Programs, Gifts, Pens, Pen Repairs, etc. Refer to this notice if you patronize the Singer Pen & Gift Shop, Jenkins Arcade.
of the 
blackoiacK
handP
The Women's Glee Club will have a business meeting and re­hearsal . Tuesday afternoon, Oc­tober 2, at 4:30, in Margaret Mor­rison Assembly Hall. It is. im­perative that all members, both new and old, be present. Prepara­tion for this year’s concerts will begin immediately.Tryouts for new members will be continued. Membership was high last year, but it is hoped that it will be greatly increased this yc:ir. An activities key is given for two years’ vmembcrship with regular attendance'.
Gas is also used extensively in the manufacture of glass. Colum­bus, Ohio, uses 40,000,000 cubic feet of natural gas per month.
J Vh largest selling]quality pencil 
in tlus wovld
REPORTERS NOTICE
,There arc still opportunities for securing positions on the rcportor- ial staff of the Tartan, open to underclassmen, preferably Fresh­men with or without ¦ newspaper experience. ' All recruits should come to the tri-publication’s, office during the 12:30 hour of any school day, or on Friday afternoon. Con­sistent, effort 011 the part of the reportorial staff may be later re­warded with remunerative positions during the upperclass years. An early application is advisable.
Tuxedo and 
Full Dress 
Suits to Hire
Special Student 
Rates
98T aDOsNI2C
MEN’S TAILOR 
335 Fifth Avenue
606 State Theater Bids:.
Worcester, Mass.—The Worces­tershire, England, Sports Fellow­ship soccer team, is in this country for a series of games with Ameri­can teams.
Superlative in quality, 
the world-famousV/ENUS V PENCILS
give best service and 
1 longest wear.10c each
American Pencil Co., Hoboken, N. J.Malersof UNIQ UE Th m Lead Colored Pencils in. 12 color«—$1.00 per dor.
Dares Fate 
for Favorite 
Pipe Tobacco
, Darby, Pa.,November 12,1926. 
Larus & Bro. Co. •Richmond, Va.Gentlemen:I have a mania for crawling through a number of unexplored caverns be­tween the towns of Woodstock and Mt. Jacksonin the Shenandoah Valley. One cave was exceedingly dangerous with its tight passages, etc. I spent three hours in this cavity, groping blindly with a “dead” flashlight and a severed guiding string.To cut my story short, I was Anally rescued by a searching party after a terrible experience. It was a wonder­ful feeling as I sat at the mouth of the cavern telling my friends that I would not go back in there for love nor money. I meant it—until I reached for my can of Edgeworth. It was gone, and I recalled dropping something during the excitement in the cave.It is queer what a man will do when his favorite tobacco is concerned. I I realized that without my tobacco it would be as bad as being lost in the cavity—so I crawled back.It was a grand and glorious feeling ! as my hand came in contact with the I Aristocrat of Tobacco.Yours very truly,Joseph P. Fink, Jr.
DANCING
At JACQUES SCHOOL
CRAIG & FORBES ST.Beginners Monday and Friday Eve­nings. Advanced, Thursday and Satur­
day Evenings. Private lessons by ap­
pointment. . Mayflower 7891
=¥v\
A Course in
Handling Money
The formation of a bank­ing connection early in life is an indispensable part of your education.
The experience in handling, money, the friendly advice of specialists trained to meet every type of financial problem, will enable you to make the most of your allowance now, and will eventually help you to success in whatever line of work you may follow.
-OST of us manage to 
get our hands well smeared 
with ink when we do 
much ^writing with a pen. 
Remington Portable is the 
best solution of that prob­
lem—and the neatness and 
legibility of typewritten 
work are sure to make a 
hit with the profs.
Get a Remington Portable 
nowl It’s the smallest, 
lightest, most compact an? 
most dependable portabU 
with standard keyboard 
Carrying case only 4 
inches high. Weighs 8^2 
pounds, net.
Let us explain to you our 
easy payment plan.
Remington
Portable
CarircBlo Institute of Tcchnolog; 
Adminintration Bide.
Remington Rand Bunincin Service, 1)^, 
Bessemer Bide., 102 Sixth Street, Pittsburgh, P
j Edgeworth
Extra, High Grade
Smoking Tobacco
First Church of Christ
SCIENTIST 
CLYDE ST., PITTSBURGH
SUNDAY SERVICES 11 A. M. 8 P. M.Sunday School 11 A. M.Wednesday evening services 8 to 9
All set 
to go!
Looking right is the first step toward feeling right. With an Alligator —smart, swagger and absolutely waterproof —you can always go through with your plans no matter how bad a break you get on the weather. Take a look at the smart Alligator models. Alligator Balloon Cloth Coats—Alligator College Slickers—Alligator Jap Silk Coats. Alliga­tors arc sold only at the best stores and retail from $7.50 to $25.00. Sec the new Alligator Aviation model •<it $10.00. The Alligator Company, St. Louis, Mo.
ALLIGATOR
TRADE-MARK R
ALL STUDENTS
can get a
Big Milk Shake with Biscuits
FREE
at the
By Bringing This Ad To
THE HOT PUPPIE SHOP
112 ATWOOD STREET
Between Fifth and Forbes 
Freshmen get your matches here.
nnouncing
VON
9turS2XC 12 2 2 FX2 22 2
JAZZLAND’S BRIGHTEST COMEDIANS
PLAYING DAILY
During Luncheon and Dinner 
In the Gold Room
LUNCHEON
Table d’Hote 85c
I
DINNER DANCING
6:00 P. M. to 8:00 P. M. Table d’Hote $1.50 
No cover charge
Ante FOTBALT DNCEETU IBSUT
IN THE ENGLISH ROOM 
Friday 9:0« P. M. to 1:00 A. M. Saturday 9:00 P. M. to 12:00 P. M.
0
I
SUNDAY DINNER CONCERT 5:30 P. M. to 9:00 P. M.
In the Gold Room
• SPECIAL TABLE d’HOTE DeLUXE $1.50
9DIS .2SS dRSNY
Management Eppley Hotels Co.

---------------------------------------------------

TUESDAY, OCTOBER 2, 1928.THE CARXEGIE TARTAN
WE CONGRATULATE Dyke Becdc on his 1928 gridiron 
eleven. His team went on the field acknowledged beaten, but 
they put up a scrappy game that was well worth seeing. With 
a number of their best players injured they fought a losing bat­
tle and a final desperate spurt in the last two minutes gave them 
their coveted six points. Perhaps they had some breaks but 
that is football.
THE CARNEGIE ELEVEN gave a typical first game per­
formance, but as a whole lived up to expectations. Without 
the slightest doubt there were many defects that should and 
will be ironed out this week. With the stands full of scouts, 
Wally didn’t uncover his pet formations—they are being saved 
:or a more formidable opponent. One thing, however, is very 
apparent; the line, big as it is, can be scored against.
ALL THE PLAYERS gave an excellent account of them­
selves, especially Moorchead, who was the outstanding player 
of the day. However, his performance depended upon the ex­
cellent support and interference given by the rest of the squad, 
rlarpster’s passing and field generalship were good, but his kick­
ing was terrible; Dreshar bounced a few back and the whole 
squad was guilty of several off-side plays and a number of 
fumbles. Undoubtedly this was caused by nervousness and per­
haps a little over-confidence, which will be smoothed over in a 
week or so.*******
ASHLAND, the Tartan's opponent on Saturday, is another 
:>ne of those snaps'which many peopje consider in the bag. Un­
doubtedly it wjll be; it should be easier than Westminster, but 
we are always wary of these small colleges, they often make up 
¡n determination what they lack in ability. Practice game or 
not, we predict a large crowd Saturday to see the Tartan eleven 
in action;* ***** *
INTERESTING SIDELIGHTS of the game: Graham
McNamee, famous radio announcer, was at the mike for the 
second and final quarters. Graham circled the track in. the first 
quarter, in an open car, but was absolutely ignored by the. spec­
tators—they were too busy watching a very, very interesting 
g-ame. Between halves, while the Kilts, played, a. teiiryear-qld 
Italian kid amused the crowd with many and varied tumbling 
acts. • He was really good and deserved all of the great amount 
Df applause he received. Rayen High has one Of the best small 
stadiums- we have ever seen. Many high schools are far ahead 
of., the average college when it comes to stadiums, equipment 
ind cheering.
if
NOTRE DAME considers the Tartan invasion the one big 
event of their season. In reviewing their 1928 football schedule, 
‘The Notre Dame Scholastic,” the school paper, comments 
thusly on the coming tussle with “Wally’s Wizards: “But
November 17 will be the red-letter day on the Rocknc program. 
At that time the ‘Fighting Scotch’ of Carnegie Tech will wage war 
with the ‘Fighting Irish’ of Notre Dame. The Tartans have a 
line which averages 200 pounds; a backfieid averaging 185 
pounds, and a reputation that has no regard for averages. This 
game will probably.be the most intensely-fought contest on the 
Irish schedule.” These averages are slightly exaggerated, but 
’tis rumored that in their scrimmage practice-the scrub team 
wear red jerseys???
VISITORS AND STUDENTS from the Irish stronghold 
HI RL that the coming Steffen-Rockne argument,is the,.one :&nd 
,only topic of conversation. Army, Navy, Georgia 'jCech, are 
only mere incidentals to be overcome before the Skibos are anni­
hilated. If hotel accommodations are desired it is their advice 
to secure them now. However, if Wally repeats his famous 
victory, which he undoubtedly will, there will be all hades raised 
in South Bend that night—accommodations or not, only the 
well illuminated will sleep.*******
SAUL MEILZINER is up and around, but more like a 
I shadow than the varsity’s biggest warrior. Right now he looks 
I \\k$ a better end than a center. He prophesies ableness to get 
| in the W. & J. tangle—we hope so, but it sounds optimistic. 
i Ten days after being separated from his appendix “Sol” was 
i attempting to get into football togs.ft; * ***,•* * . *
I . WHAT’S THE MATTER, Plebes? Very few have shown 
up for freshman football practice. If you were any good at all 
in high school you have all the chance in the world to make 
yotir numerals on the Plebe eleven. Right now there are plenty 
of ’bprths open, either as substitute or regular. Report at once.
ANOTHER TIP—varsity and freshman managerships of 
football are two of the biggest honors obtainable in this “Insti­
tute of Higher Learning.” One must start as a Plebe t6 get 
these coveted positions. Report any afternoon at the field house, 
freshmen, the sooner the better.* * * * * * *
FALL TENNIS tournament will be under way this week, 
with everyone, plebe and varsity men included, invited to enter. 
Although these tournaments' are never completed they usually 
ser.ve their purpose in uncovering promising material. Next
FIVE VALUABLE TARTANS
5V1/GET
Plebes Pry Lid Off Grid 
Season with 18-0 Win Over 
St. Yincents College Sat.
a heady game at quarter and a safety man. Ziegler's and Archer’s play featured end runs, while Ewing’s gains were generally made 
on cross-buck plays. The entire line played a good, consistent game
the sensational end runs of Glent Moorchead. It seems as if he was able to gain at will and his 75 yard dash for a touchdown in the second quarter was a masterpiece.' Letzcltcr and Karcis did well at1
Saints Unable to Cope With 
Attack Displayed By 
Carneie Frosh.
throughout the entire contest. Ar- fullback, while Captain , Harp.ster mentrout showed well at tackling1 carri.c^ the burden of punting and and on the reviving end of passes. Passing in his usual brilliant man- 
DuCanis' performance was out- ncr- ,lf 5 unfortunate that Lyth 
standing at the snapper-back posi-1 "'as. ,">1,rccl 50 ™rly >n the game, lion as he did not make a bad pass. or h,s Presence would undoubtedly 
S2Ty TTTTTTTT TTTTTTTTTT p . ‘hav<
year’s net squad will suffer from the loss of Hooper, Glasser 
and Schnii^lt, but .Caffee, Berghane, Carpenter, Cambaugh, Bron­
son and Tener .should shape up into a winning team.* • * * * * * *
GUY HALFERTY is rapidly rounding his cross-country 
¡squad into, shape to open the season October 12 with Thiel. 
;We have often wondered why these meets are not so timed 
that the runners could finish between halves of the football 
game. : It would be more spectacular* increase. student interest
and make cross-country more popular; it is often done in other
colleges. .Cross-country also, needs, freshman material and man­
agers.
HALFERTY PREPARES 
TO OPEN SEASON
All-Carnegie Tennis
Tournament Opens
Annual Competition Designed to Uncover Varsity and Plebe Material.
The weary hours, of breathless 
¡waiting'and expectancy are at ¡an end. . The big question .on the lips [of ¡¿very..’true .Carnegie man has iieccivcd, , an answer. There will be a tennis tournament this fall! Undaunted by the continual cold and threats of approaching winter, Coach iioover ;uul Varsity Man- 
ageKrDougTieriy, withdrew 'into • a deep and serious conference out of ¿which emerged .plans for Carnegie’s Ex)urth Annual,Fall Tennis. Tourna­
ment.The tournament this year is open To.'every “ oiie in • school except faculty members. ‘Unlike past yfcars, 
Plebe and varsity men arc welcome to enter. Entries will be received up to and including Friday, Oc­tober 5. A small fee, probably 50 cents, will be' charged. An en­try sheet, bearing all necessary in­structions will be posted on the gym bulletin board. All desiring to enter the tournament- must sign 
this sheet.Tennis tournaments are ; held every fall under the supervision of Coacli Hoover. By this method lie can line up promising material for the coming spring. Therefore, all 
students, Plebes especially, who'arc proficient in the game, arc strong­ly urged to enter the contest.. To 
the. winning player; a suitable tro- 
:phy will;' be awarded.From the students’ viewpoint the tournaments of the past three years 
have not been entirely successful. 
Rain, wind and even snow have 
prevented the matches from reach­ing the finals. Laxness on the part of the players in playing off their matches has also withheld
any successful terminations. How­ever, from Coach Hoover’s view­
point, the matches have been en­tirely worthwhile. Much valuable material has thus been discovered 
that might, otherwise, have re­mained unknown. This fact alone is sufficient reason for the con­
tinuance‘of the tournaments.From present indications, Car­negie cia!n: look forward to a suc­cessful season of tennis.- Several excellent players, will not return, but there arc new men who look as if they might fill in the gaps. Hooper, the ; strong-, man of last year’s varsity, is lost by gradua­tion/ vyliile Glasser and Schmidt arc not returning't;o'schobl.
To offset these bad tidings, is the news that Bob -Caffee has re­turned to Cambric; Caffee starred on the Plebe team in ’26 and on ( the varsity the following spring. 
Brick, after a year’s absence, great things' arc expected of him.Berghane, number .oiie man on last year's freshman squad, will be out for. the varsity next spring. Berghane made a name for him­self this summer by going to the finals in the open tournament held at Eric. To reach this position, lie overcame some stiff opposition, the most- difficult being McCaskey, Avcll-known Buckhell star. The Tar­tan player was defeated in a hard- fought finals by Bowers of Pitt... In . addition to. the above men­
tioned., men, four varsity players are returning, . Captain Carpenter; Cambaugh, Bronson and Tencr. 
These, men have spent an active summer taking', part in matches and tournaments and acquiring an added degree of skill and experi­
ence.
CARNEGIE
Girls’ Annual Doubles Tennis 
Tournament to be Played Off 
During the Month of October
Hnrpsler (158)
DRE. 
Ttoainzweie (185)
WP ENS
Schmipp (210) Lovewell (200)
Highbercer (196) Dreshar (192) Schmidt (205)
È £ hi & iS
W«r»t1cr Pfeifer Hare linker * StnufTcr McCucn M. Johnson
ASHLAND
The girls’ annual doubles ten­nis tournament which is held every 
fall will begin this. week. As the tennis season is rapidly drawing to a close, it is intended that the first cimd will be entirely played off by the end of this week so that the finals may be completed within the next few weeks. All girls who can play tennis are urged to en­ter the tournament without delay and to sign, up bn the posters 
which are .placed on the Fine Arts and Margaret Morrison bulletins. 
Special W. A. A. tennis court per­mits are available in the girls’ gym 
office and may be borrowed, free of charge, at any time for the pur­pose of practicing or engaging in the tournament provided they are promptly returned. A schedule of the matches will be posted as soon as possible, and all participants 
are to watch the bulletins and play with their assigned opponents with­
out delay. Athletic points arc awarded to those who play in a 
sufficient number of games.A meeting of the Women’s Ath­
letic Association Board will be held Wednesday at 12:30, cither in room 101 or in the Carnegie Inn, as an­
nounced on the bulletins. As this is a most important meeting every member is requested • to appear promptly.
Geneva Meet Cancelled; Open Sea­
son October 12 With Thiel.
Coach Halfcrty was greeted by a large number of cross-country prospects last Wednesday at the 
initial practice session of the sea­son. . The first practice was rather light, but Halfcrty has plenty of work in ,store for his hill and 
dalers before the opening of the season with Thiel College on Oc­tober 12. Geneva, one of the 
strongest squads in the Tri-State district, was originally scheduled for the opener on October 5, but 
due to the fact that the Plaid men have started training this season rather late, it was deemed unwise to meet the Covenanters so early in the season. The meet was con- celled, but it is more than probable that the Beaver County boys will be met on one of the open datcs: later on in the year.Thiel, though a small school, has usually boasted strong cross-coun­try teams. The meeting with them 
is certain to be a trying test for 'the Carnegie men, since the Luth­
erans have almost a veteran team. Halfcrty is banking on several of last year’s veterans, Captain Camp­bell, Hubbard, Crawford, Salkin, McCombs and Hobe, augmented by 
a few of last year’s Plebe stars, 
McClure, Worley, and a few others to uphold the Plaid’s former prcsr. 
tige in this strenuous sport. The
Journeying to St. Vincent’s Col­lege at Beattv, Pa., the Plebes un­corked a flashing aerial • attack which netted them an 1S-0 win when the final whistle blew. Much" had been heard about the Saints'. strong team of ’28, and it showed j great improvement over their ’27 squad, but it was certain defeat for them under the slashing, fight­ing onslaught of the Frosh. The game was replete -with surprises, for both teams were using the forward pass to great advantage, 
and with two teams using this mode df attack it is never certain what is going to happen. Two captains were appointed for the Plebes, McCurdy for the first half and DuCanis for the second.
Captain -O’Donnell of the Saints chose to receive and Armcntrout kicked off. The ball was worked 
back and forth on an exchange of' plays and punts for the first 10 minutes of play. At this point Armentrout caught a 20-yard pass from Flctchcr and ran an addi­tional 18 yard for the Plebes’ first touchdown. McCurdy mis^iid his try for extra point. Armcntrout kicked off again and play started in the middle of the field. R. Daley received a pass that netted the Saints a 45-yard gain, which was their most spccticular bit of play during the entire game. Through a succession of punts, in­tercepted passes and plays St. Vin­cent’s worked the ball to Carnegie’s 11-yard line. Carnegie’s line held at this point and McCurdy piintcd out of danger. The half ended with the ball in Carnegie terri­tory and the score 6-0.
In the second half the ball was rapidly worked back and forth in 
mid-field. The ball was. on Tech’s 35-yjird line whqn. DuCanis inter­cepted a pass and ran 65 yards for 
a touchdown. The try for point was , again unsuccessful. Repeating DuCanis’ feat, McCurdy in the final quarter, intercepted a pass and ran 5.5 yards for the last, touchdown. This try for point after touchdown was also unsuccessful. During the remainder of the game neither of the two sides made any serious threats to score.
McCurdy consistently outpuntcd 
St. Vincent’s kicker; he also played
The only injury of the game was 
in the last few minutes of*; play when Walter Kozicki was forced out of play by an injure^ leg muscle. Penalties were legion in the game as Carnegie received 143 yards loss and St. Vincent’s 6S yards loss through this medium.After the game Manager Widom
meant much to the Plaid.His initial exhibition was thrilling to watch. The line performed wMl and effectively .stopped -what li c attack Westminster was able iO offer, only four first downs being registered against it. while Car­negie was running up 13. The Tartan’s aerial game was not func­tioning as it should, but still 6escorted the team to Grccnsburg! out of 12 passes were completed where lie treated them to a much to one for-Westminster, enjoyed dinner at the Elks’ Club. ... , •;Manager Widom has arranged an- i . !c Sal.n.c> which served as theother motor coach trip when the I opening -o? thfc.scason, was cx- l'rosh have Kiski as their oppo- I trciuoly hare fought, and those nents at Saltsburg, Pa., next bat- Uupportdrs who made the trip wereurday. Kiski always has a soi.d I rewarded by seeing one of the
eleven and is probably the Plebes’ most feared opponent. ,
Carnegie Frosh—IS St. Vincent—0Armentrout __L.E____ SuspanskiFletcher ______L.T.____ CampbellPerch ________L.G___ YankovichDuCanis _____!iC__— O’DonnellICozichki _____R.G----- McKinneyStauffer ---------R.T.----------- Ortner
Matia ____ R.E-------- — BoyleMcCurdy _____Q-B._—------- RizzoArcher _______iTdTeeYee MannionZiegler -----------R. Ii------- R. DaleyEwing ------------F.B_________ BindaSubstitutions—Carnegie: Widmcr for Kozicki, Boucck for Perch, Pcjunccy for Archer. St. Vincent: Zapponc for Ortner, Ross .for
Rizzo, Sclnilcy for Binda, M. Daley for R. Daley,' Bindfi for Schulcy, Butala for Binda, Paytash for Yankovitch, Kirchner for Ross, Jessico for Mannion, Milliron for O’Dosncll, Ross for Kirchner, Rizzo for Ross, Binda for Butala, Butala for Binda. Touchdowns:. Armcntrout, DuCanis, McCurdy. Referee: Schrcck, W. &J. Umpire: McMillan, Pitt. Head linesman:. Gannon, Wilmerding Y. M. C. A.
men realize that they have a hard season ahead of them and arc faithfully traversing the gullies and by-waÿs of the- Schcnley Park 
course, hoping to be in- the pink of condition for the inaugural of the season with Thiel.Although the numbers of the 
squad have been greatly swelled by the rising of Cross Country run­ning1 as à popular sport, Coach Halfcrty is ever willing ’to hand out suits .-to new. men .’who. may care 
to try out for the team. Cross country running, despite the exer­tion, ' is excellent exercise for long- 
distance trackmen. Any long-dis­tance men, therefore, • would bene­
fit immensely for the coming track season by joining the Harriers.
Carnegie Athletes Win
(Continued from Page 1)
Carnegie’s rush in midficld.The third period opened with a change in Carnegie’s lineup. Sweet was .sent to end in place of L. Flanagan, Letzelter to fullback and T. Flanagan to half. No scores were made by eithfcr side, but Car­negie gained 25 yards and then 11 in two succcssivc tries. Westmin­ster gained possession of the ball but lost it on a fumble. The period ended as Moorchead ran 12 yards to the 4 yard line.' On the sec­ond try of the last quarter, Moore- head slipped around right end for Carnegie’s fifth touchdown. Harp- stcr made the extra point and fin­
ished up the Tartan’s scoring for the day. • • . •It was not until the waning min­utes of the game that Westminster made its only touchdown. Tcch attempted a series of passes and, unluckily, one of them was inter­cepted on the Plaid’s 25 yard line by Palmer, who was not downed until he had reached the 3 .yard marker. For two plays Carnegie’s line held but a forward pass, FIol- zapel to Pipoly, gave Westminster its only points of the day. This last play ended the game as far as any spectacular playing was con­cerned and the final whistle jeft the score at 32 to 6.The high spots of the'game were
strongest teams that Steffen and Waddell have ever welded to­gether. Only at times did the Tartans display their real strength, but when they did they undoubtcd- stuck fear into the hearts of men from Pitt and W. and J. who scouted Wally’s proteges for their respective schools.
The crimson men were handi­capped by the fact that they were not supposed to open up. The op­position used a seven man line on the defense through which it was very difficult to make any considerable yardage. This system leaves only four men in the back- ficld, which weakens the defense against passing. Harpstcr did not use many passes, for he would have revealed to enemy scouts’ much of Tech’s great passing at­tack which is so vital to any mod­ern team. Had lie called more passes the score would have been much higher, but the cagey Tar­tan quarter wisely elected not to revert to an overhead attack.
At the start of the contest, T ech’s play , was ragged and much fumbling' made the ’game seem dull. Late in the first quarter, however, stride and John Karcis, Wally’s bar­reled bodied fullback, tore through the line and, after bowling over the- bodied fullback, tore through the line ' and, after bowling over the secondary defense, scorcd the first touchdown, jj The rest of the first half the, 'Crimson Tide rolled the Presbyterians to score 19 mora points.
In the second half with a com­manding lead the Carnegie men­tors thought it safe to bench Karcis, who had been bearing the brunt of the Tech offense. Ulenn Moorchead continued to sweep the ends and receive passes in a man­ner which pleased all those on the Tech sidelines. Late in the fourth quarter Palmer intercepted a pass and ran to Carnegie’s one yard line.' Here the Carnegie line show­ed its strength and after three plays, Westminster was four yards from their objective. On the next play they completed a pass and the receiver dove over the last chalk mark for the Titans’ only rally. Three minutes after Carnegie’s goal was crosscd the game was over., Harpstcr played his usual game, which means that his kicking and passing were excellent, and his field generalship was perfect. Kar­cis and Moorchead proved that they arc worthy of a place on any football team. Although Letzelter seldom carried the ball the manner (Continued on Page 6)
Old Gold hits a homer for Bahe l&uth 
in blindfold cigarette test
“Yes, I am well over 21... so 
I could see no reason why I 
shouldn’t make the blindfold 
test. As I tried the four lead­
ing cigarettes I kept this ‘box 
score’ on the results^
No. 1 
No. 2 
No. 3
. . out at 
this one ‘fanjied’ 
out on
No. 4 (old gold) a home run
“OLD GOLD’S mildness and 
smoothness marked it ‘right 
off the bat’ as the best.”
rtcA,
The
BABE RUTH . . . making the teit in tha 
dressing room at the Yankee Stadium. Hevroa 
asked to smoke each of the four leading brands, 
clearing his taste with black coffee between 
smokes. Only one question was asked: "Which 
one do you like best ?"
CABARET DINNER DANCE
(Continued from page two)
which should be done now in order to obtain good seats, - fill out the above blank and insure yourselves for two days of happiness. Don’t fail to come.
Yale plans to build a field gym­nasium for use of its athletic teams during the winter month*
On a non-stop flight to the bleachers /. . .
yVhy do they choose OLD GOLD ... even in the dark?i
What is this superiority that wins so many famous 
people? It’s simply honey-like smoothness . . . the new 
and delightful quality that Old Gold has added to
cigarettes. And it comes from the heart-leaves of the 
tobacco plant ... the finest tobacco that grows. That’s 
why you can pick Old Golds with your eyes closed.iVjade from the heart-leaves 
of the tobacco plant
SMOOTHER AND BETTER — “NOT A COUGH IN A CARLOAD”

---------------------------------------------------

THE CARNEGIE TARTANTUESDAY, OCTOBER 2, 192s. .
PHONE MAYFLOWER 2600 
PubliahAl once every -week during the nolloKo year by umlcrítraduatrii of Carnccrie 
Inr.tlMita of Technology. Entered in the 
I’lttnbur«h Font Office grT xecond«cIflua matter.
THINK IT OVER
THE STAFF
Editor-in-Chicf....Stewart C. RalstonPlaid Editor..___Edw. E. McDonald.business Manager,....James H. Seibert
Managing Editor,___William McNcillNews Editor_________Ruth BramsonWomen’s Editor............Dorothy RoyAthletic Editor™.. Thomas W. Lippert Alumni Editor— Charles R. Nelson
ASSOCIATE EDITORS
Helen Reed Eugene JarcmaHelen Booth Hyman J. LevinsonHelen Whitchill Katherine O'Donnell
CONTRIBUTING EDITORS
Nathan Miller Jna HansellSara E. Wonders Joe B. PattersonAlex M. Fisher
JUNIOR EDITORS 
Rosemary Barr Wilfrid H. Worland Jacob- Carpc Henry L. Bunker, Jr. Catherine Boyd 
nINrRISNIF 
T. J. Boyle H. N. McixncrM. Eckels D. K, TomerN. Kline L. M. BaughW. H. Martsolf E. Schlesinger G. M. Wilson J. H. McAtccrL. I. Shussct C. F. AckenhctlW. L. Myers A. F. PhillipsD. H. Barr E. J. DattismanW. W liay G. H. Mcrrinw! J. Eason H. R. Weitzel
mwF2CNFF 8NrXISENCS
Advertising Mgr----Robert H. WehrlcAssistant:..................David H. GentcrWillis M. Crosby 
Circulation Mgrs..-....-Michacl Malinich Carl Blass
Office—Room 12, InduBtrics Building. Of­
fice Hours—Monday to Thursday«, 12:30, 1:20, Paper made up I-riday, 12:30-6.00.To insure publication on the succeeding 
Tuesday. ncwH itcmfi muBt be in the student 
post ofTicc or Tartan Office before 4:30 
Thursday.
Alter' office hours, call—
irriltor .......—...........-...Oakmont 667-W.........-........1.........Mayflower 8321
n.ld ‘Editor......—.......................Atliuillc 1300....Schenlcy 2380
Busin™ M.räS—I Schcnlcy 02UAdvertising Manager...................Schenlcy 908
REGULATIONS
It is particularly gratifying to the majority of upper classmen to notice the very apparent spirit with which plcbc regulations arc at pres­ent being enforced, and observed. No school exists but that has some Sacred traditions to which it clings to help maintain it's unique identity among numberless other institu­tions. Carnegie's Kiltie Band, the Senior fence, our fighting teams and plcbc regulations are among the traditional enterprises and be­liefs that become a part of Car­negie campus life. To neglect without adequate reason the con­tinuation of plcbc regulations would border on sacrilcgc in the minds iif many former students and pres­ent undergraduates. At such time, ¡lowliver, when age-old habits be­come obnoxious because of their conflict with later life and ideals, they should be sufficiently altered to conform with the new, for when traditions become burdensome they will weaken and become lost. Such was the transition which has ',-ikcn place at Carnegie.
By rigid enforcement of lirst- year' rulings until the mid-year hol­idays, tradition is not being vio­lated and the school is placed on a basis similar to that of the 'ma­jority of colleges. Our rcguations are under the supervision of the Student Council and arc enforced by the Sophomore:. it is. to be hoped that they will continue to he as religiously observed until De­cember as at present, when titling emancipation cxcrciscs will take place. Those entrusted with en­forcement would do' well to heed t|ic requests of uppcrelassmcn for rigid compliance with Carnegie tradition. By word of warning, however, Sophomores should re­frain from rough treatment of plcbc girls as one overbearing sec­ond year man in a scarlet sweater was observed doing on the Cut last week.
And to the Plcbcs—another class Is coming next year!
PARKING
With the present system of parking on the campus, there seems to be sufficient space for all who have occasion to drive to school and wish to leave their cars within a few minutes’ walk of classes. By parking only on the Schcnley side of Frew street, at ninety degrees with the curb line, and with the rear wheels at the curb, it is pos­sible to park more cars' than if they were lined up on both sides of the street parallel to the curb. T^ere is also the added advantage of being able to park more closely , without danger of being blocked in. The system is quite appar­ently the best one .yet devised for our requirements. But no system can be well carried out without the co-operation of those concern­ed with it.
It has been observed that a few thoughtless persons do not excr- cisc the care necessary to properly follow up our parking system. By leaving their cars standing at an angle with the curb, much more space is taken up than if the car is backed in straight. The same trouble arises from parking too far apart. One or one and a half feet should be sufficient spacc between even the largest cars, and when just a few drivers Icav.c more '.han that, the space i f another car width is soon taken up. Probably the painting of park lines on the street would greatly aid the situa­tion, but it should not be neces­sary to request the slight courtesy of giving the other fellow a square deal.
Please park intelligently.
Pennsylvania, with 17,000 miles of pipe lines supplying 370 cities, leads all other states in mileage of nat­ural gas pipe lines, according to a report made at the recent conven­tion in Dallas of the Natural Gas Department of the American Gas Association, - ^__
“These stupid ?peasants, who, throughout the world, hold poten­tates on their thrones, make states­men illustrious, provide generals with lasting victories, all with ig­norance, indifference, or half-witted hatred, moving the world with the strength of their arms, and get­ting' their heads knocked together, in the name of God, the king, or the stock exchange — immortal, dreaming, hopeless asses, who sur­render their reason to the. care of a shining puppet, and persuade some toy to, carry their lives in his purse.”Such is the opinion of Stephen Crane, American novelist and poet of the last ccntury, of the peasant class, those tillers of the soil who arc the backbone as well as the footpad of all countries. Surely this couldn’t apply to the present day slave; the industrial slave who is perhaps blessed with a little more worldly goods and a some­what higher standard of living, but nevertheless still a slave in a more subtle manner. He is undoubtedly free to changc masters but still the spectre of unemployment and starvation coupled with the abuses he must stand in order to keep his job, when hundreds of unemployed are begging for work, docs not make his position exactly enviable. Bernard Shaw also has something to say about society’s handling of the poorer classes.
“The thoughtless wickedness with which we scattcr sentences of im­prisonment, torture in the solitary cell and on the plank bed, and flogging, on .moral invalids and cn- crgctic rebels, is as nothing com­pared to the stupid levity with which we tolerate poverty as if it were cither a wholesome tonic for lazy people or else a virtue to be embraced as St. Francis embraced it. If a man is indolent, let him be poor. If he is drunken, let him be poor. If he is not a gentle­man, let him be poor. Jf lie is addicted to the fine arts or to pure scicncc, instead of to trade
and finance, let .him be poor. If 
he chooscs to spend his urban 
eighteen shillings a week or his 
agricultural thirteen shillings a 
week ori his beer, and his family, instead of saving it up for his old age, let him be poor. Let nothing be done for 'the undeserving;’ let him be poor. Serves him right! Also — somewhat inconsistently — blessed arc the poor!“Now what .docs this Let Him Be Poor mean? It means let him be weak. Let him be ignorant. Let him bccomc a npclcus of dis­ease. Let him be a standing ex­hibition and example of ugliness and-^dirt. Let him have rickety chiltlrcn. Let him be chcap and let him drag his fellows down to his price, by selling himself to do I their work. Let his habitationsturn our citics into poisonous con­geries of slums. Let his daughters infect our young men with llicdiseases of the streets and his sons revenge him by turning thenation’s manhood, into scrofula, cowardicc, cruelty', hypocrisy, po­litical imbecility, and all the other fruits of oppression and malnutri­tion. Let the undeserving becomc still less deserving; and let the de­serving lay up for himself, not treasures in heaven, but horrors in hell -«upon earth. This being so, is it really wise to let him bepoor? Would he not do ten times less harm as a prosperous burglar, incendiary, ravishcr, or murderer, to the utmost limits in these direc­tions? Suppose we were to abolish all penalties for such activities, and decide that poverty is the one thing w will not tolerate—that every adult with less than, say, 365 pounds a year, shall be painlessly but inexorably killed, and every hungry half naked child forcibly fattened and clothedi would not that be an enormous improvement on our existing, system, which has already destroyed so many civiliza­tions, and is visibly destroying ours in the same way?’’
Northwestern University 
Graduates Its First
Evening Student
aduatcs its First evening student— The above caption was seen ap­pended to a photograph of a Mr. C. Wcndcl Muench, Chicago, 111. It appears that Mr. Muench attend­ed Northwestern University at night for 16 years, and was its first night student to rcccivc a degree.Carnegie has a longer list than this; how many the writer docs not know, but is going to find out and will disclose the interesting figures in the near future. Appar­ently, if you want to finish at Northwestern U. you have to start darn young, wonder what the de­
lay was.
1928 M. M. Alumnae Have 
Many Different Positions
SERIOUSLY SPEAKINÇ
Arsene Lupin
Arscne Lupin! Who has not heard of that mysterious and charming gentleman thief, whose extraordi­nary adventures seem to have tak­en place in the world which we really know. One reads each epi- sidc of his amazing life with new pleasure. The Tartan has arrang­ed for a special translation of some of his prodigious cscapades. The Tartitn presents the first of these stories today. It will beconcludcd in two additional install­ments.
Arscne Lupin Under ArrestThat strange voyage! However, it had commcnced well enough. For my part, 1 had never under­taken anything which began under happier auspices. The Provence is a transatlantic steamer which isquick, comfortable and captainedby the most affable of men. Amost select grpup was on board. Friendships were formed; entertain­ments organized. We had that ex­quisite impression of being apart from the world, - reduced to our own resources as if we were on an unknown island, obliged conse­quently to mingle with each other.
And so we drew nearer and nearer together . . .
Have you ever thought of the un­usual and unexpected things which can happen to a group of .beings like ^ that, who, the night before, didn’t know each other, and who, for several days, between the in­finite sky and the illimitable sea, arc going to liv^ together :i most intimate sort of life, are going to defy together the angry ocean, the terrifying assault of the waves, and the annoying calm of a sleep}' sea?At. bottom, lived in a sort of tragic foreshortening;, it’s like life itself, with "its showers and its sun­shine, its monotony and its diver­sity, and that's why, perhaps, one tastes all the more eagerly and anxiously a short voyage which you can see the end of at the very moment you put your foot on the gangplank and arc off.But, for several years now, there has existed a tiling which adds quite definitely to one’s emotions during a crossing. Your little floating island has a means of communication with that world from which you feel yourself cut off. The wireless! Like a call from another universe it brings one news in a perfectly mysterious way. The imagination has not the power to realize how the invisible message comes. ¦ The mystery is insolvablc, and it is poetic also, for one must go-to the Wings of the wind for an explanation of the miracle.So, at first, we felt ourselves fol­lowed, escorted, even preceded by that distant' voice which from time to time brought to one of us a few words from home. Two friends sent me messages. Ten, perhaps twenty others, "sent to all of us, across spacc, their melan­choly or genial farewells. 'Now', on the stormy afternoon of the second day out, when we were 500 miles from the French coast, tli h * wireless brought us this dis­patch:
“Arscne Lupin on board, first class, light hair, wound on right forearm, traveling alone under the name of R , . .”
Just at that very moment a vio­lent clap -of thunder shook the 
somber skies, Wireless communica­tion was interrupted. The rest of the message never arrived. Of the name under which Arscne Lupin was traveling, nothing was known but the initial.
If it had been a question of some other similar piece of news,I have no doubt it would have been kept a profound secret by the men in charge of the wireless ap­paratus, as well as by the cap­tain. But this was one of those things which seem to break down the most rigorous discretion. That very day, although no one could say. how the thing had becomc gos­sip, we all knew that the famous Arscne Lupin was hiding himself among us.Arsenc Lupin was there amonu 
us I That .uncatchable thief whose,
cscapades all the papers had been talking about for three months. That puzzling person with whom old Ganimard, our best detective, had undertaken a duel to death, the clashes of which were being revealed in such a picturesque fash­ion! Arsenc Lupin, that amusing gentleman who worked only in cas- tlcs, country houses and drawing rooms, and who, the night lie en­tered the homc\of the Baron Sclior- mann, had gone away empty hand­ed, leaving his card and this mes­sage:
“Arscne Lupin, gcntleman-thicf, will conic back when the furniture is authentic.” Arscne Lupin, the man of a thousand disguises: turn by turn chaufifcur, tenor, book­maker, an elder son, an adolescent, an old-man, a Marseillais bourgeois, a Russian doctor, a Spanish torea­dor!
Just consider what .was happen­ing: Arscne Lupin was going and coming in the relatively small do­main of a transatlantic steamer— what am I saying!—in the first class section of the steamer, rather, where wc were all the time, in the (lining room, in the ladies’ room, in the smoking room! Arsenc Lupin was perhaps that gentleman there ... or perhaps that one . . . my tabic companion . . . my room­mate ...
"And it’s going to be like this for live more days,” Miss Nelly Underwood exclaimed the next day. “It s intolerable. I certainly hopely hope
Turning to me she added, “Now you, M. d’And/ezy, you’re already on good terms with the captain. Don't you know anything about it?”
I ccrtainly wish I had known something just in order to please Miss Nelly. She was one of those magnificent women who, wherever they are, immediately have every­one’s attention. Her beauty as well as her fortune was dazzling. She had a court of fervent and enthusi­astic admirers. She had been brought up at Paris by her French 
mother. At the moment she was on her way to join her father, Un­derwood, a Chicago millionaire. One of her friends, Lady Jerland, was accompanying her.From the very first, I had tried to flirt with her. But in the swift intimacy of the voyage her charm had immediately troubled me, when her large black eyes met mine, I ; had felt myself a little too much ¦ moved for mcr;c flirting. More­over, she received my attentions ¡with a certain favor. She laugh.cd at my jokes, and seemed to be interested in my stories. In re­turn for my unremitting attention, which I was giving her constant proof of, there seemed to be a vague sympathy between us.One other rival only had both­
ered me somewhat, a rather hand­some, elegant, modest bachelor, 
whose tactiturn character she ap­peared sometimes to prefer to my more outwardly Parisian manners.He had just joined the group of admirers which surrounded Miss Nelly when she spoke to me. We were on the deck, comfortably seated in deck chairs. The shower of the evening before had cleared the sky. It was a perfect after­noon.
“I know nothing definite, Made­moiselle,” I replied to her, “but is it impossible to conduct our own inquiry, and just as well as old Ganimard, Lupin’s personal enemy, could conduct it?"
"Oh . . I suppose you will dis­cover a great deal!”“And why not? Is the problem so complicated?”"Very complicated.”"But you forget all the dues we have to solve it."“What clues?""First, Lupin has taken the name of M. R. . .
“As a clue, that’s pretty vague.”“Second, he travels alone.”“As.if that was enough to know."“Third, he is blond.”“Well?”
.".Wc have only to consult the
passenger list, and proceed by elimination. 1 had that list in my pockct. 1 look it out and looked at it.
“1 noticc first of all that there are only thirteen pcopl^ whose ini­tial makes it ncccssary to consider them.”“Only thirteen?”“In first class, vcs. Of these thirteen Messieurs R . . ., as you can read for yourself, nine have with them wives, children, or serv­ants. That leaves four: the Mar­quis de Ravcdan ...”
"Secretary to the embassy,” in­terrupted Miss Nelly, “1 know •him.”“Major Rawson. . .”“My uncle,” some one said.“M. Rivolta. .“Here, exclaimed one of us, an Italian whose face disappeared into a most beautiful black beard.Miss Nelly biirst out laughing. “Monsieur is not exactly a blond.”“Well, then,” I went on, “we arc obliged to conclude that the guilty man is the last one on the list.” "Who is- . . . ?” ,“M. Ronzainc. Docs any one know M. Ronzainc?”
No one spoke. But Miss Nelly, calling to the silent young may whose eagerness to be near her was tormenting me, said to him: “Well, M. Ronzainc, why don’t you answer?”All of us turned our eyes to­ward him. He was blond.I must admit I felt slightly un­pleasant. And the significant si­lence which followed showed me that all the others felt that un­pleasantness, also. It seemed ab­surd, besides, because there was nothing in the bcarinr of the man which might lead one to suspect him.
“Why don’t I answer?” lie said; “why, because according to my name, my prcdicamcnt as an un­
accompanied traveler, the color of my hair, I have already made simi­lar inquiry myself, and because 1 have arrived at the same result. I have just decided that I might as well be arrested.”He had a rather comical air as he spoke. His thin lips, thin like two straight lines, grew pale. Some streaks of blood shoi.ic in his eyes. He Was jesting, ccrtainly. TJic look on_Jiis face, however, impress­ed us. Naively, Miss Nelly de­manded:“But you haven’t a wound?”“It is true,” lie said, “the wound is missing.”
With a nervous gesture he pulled up his sleeve and uncovered his arm. But immediately an idea struck me. My eyes met Miss Nelly’s; he had shown up his left arm. I was on the point of say­ing so, frankly, when something else caught our attention. • Lady Jerland, the friend of Miss Nelly, was running towards us. .She was greatly upset. Wc hastened around her, but it was not until she had made several efforts that she suc­ceeded in stammering:"My jewels, my pearls! . . . . Someone has taken them all . . .!"No, someone had not taken them all, as wc knew later. It was even more curious than that; someone had taken -his choice! .* * * *
Who stoic the jewels? Was it Arscne Lupin? Read this column in The Tartan next week and try to find out.
Visitors Have Extra Hour 
At The Institute On Sunday 1
Beginning next Sunday, Septem­ber 30, the Carnegie Institute, at the entrance to Schenlcy Park, will be open to the’ public at 1 p. m. on Sunday instead of 2 p. m., as here­tofore. It will remain open as usual until 6 o’clock.Samuel Harden Church, Presi­dent of the Board of Trustees, in making the announcement said: “Wc have been considering for some time the advisibility of open­ing the Institute an hour earlier on S'undays.. It is. the only day on which many people have an oppor­tunity to visit the building and the .trustees want, to give them as much time as possible. Recently the number of' visitors from out of town has increased and usually they come to the building early in the afternoon. Wc were further moved to make the change at this time bccausc of.the great number of visitors that will be coming to the International exhibition of Paintings, which will open October 18 and will continue through De­cember 9.”According.' to Mr. Cliuroh, the Department of Fine. Arts, the Mu­seum of Natural Historv. the Music Hall, and the Reference Depart­ment of the Library will all be thrown .open to the public at the 
earlier hour on Sundays. On week days the hours will be the same as heretofore, 10 a. m., tp. 10 p. m.According to Mr. Church, the Carnegie Institute building is open longer to the public than any other institution: of its kind in the world.
NEW PARKING
(Continued from Page 3)
Registration Line
You have heard about the bread line, the life line, the elothes line, and now wc will say. a word about the registration line.Upon coming to register next Wednesday', Thursday and Friday don’t expect the impossible. Your status as well as all the other an­gles of this necessary procedure has been considered, and a definite program outlined to expedite en­rollment.You will find a committee made up of night students who will make every effort to assist you and help place.you in your proper line. To handle an influx of upwards of 1,000 students in an evening is hot a very easy proposition. This Com­mittee has volunteered its scrvicc in your behalf, and it is only, be­fitting that the students desiring .to register will co-operate with them and thereby aid in registration.If you liave any questions to ask don’t hesitate to ask one of- the committee, and if it is answerable lie will do so.
NEWMAN CLUB TO GIVE RE­CEPTIONS FOR FRESHMEN TONIGHT AND WEDNESDAY
lack of proper punishment seems to be the cause of the continuance of this ever-present evil. v Yours very truly,Frank Orbin, s Business Manager.
Since the time these two let­ters were written the major groups i. c., the Faculty Welfare Com­mittee and the two Student Coun­cils, after considerable thought, liavj decided to lend all their moral force to make a successful campaign of this question. Cards are to be printed and placed in the parked automobiles outlining the manner of parking and request for .co-operation.The regulations require that cars be parked on the Schenlcy side of the street only, and at right angles with the curb. Students are urged to park as close to neighboring machines as is reasonably possible, in this way more spacc will be provided for parking cars. Students are likewise urged to show some consideration for their fellow drivers.
The Night Student Council has had this question up for debate for several years, particularly last year when it authorized its presi­dent to solicit the Administration for assistance.Now that some definite program is decided upon and we know where we stand lets all lend a helping hand to make a go of the new parking regulation^---------
The Newman Club, an organiza­tion of Catholic young men and women, will begin its social season at S p. m. tonight at Cathedral Hall with . an informal reception for Freshman woman of Pitt, P. C. C. W., Duqucsne and Carnegie. Tomorrow evening a similar recep­tion will be held for Freshmen men.
The committees in charge of both events promise an evening of enjoyable entertainment. Smokes, cats and music, together with sev­eral amusing skits, will be furnished. At the men’s reception prominent .football players from Pitt, Du- quesnc and Carnegie' will be intro­duced.
The committees arc desirous of having as many Freshmen as pos­sible attend. They will not only have; an opportunity to meet the regular members, but will have an excellent chance to bccomc ac­quainted with each other.
Since the beginning of June, nearly all of the Margaret Morri­son graduates of the class of 1928 
have been placcd in positions in and near Pittsburgh. Of approxi mately ninety graduates, seventy have reported to the Bureau. They are employed by the following com­panies and schools in varied ca­
pacities:Kaufmann’s Department Store, Pittsburgh, Pa.McCrccry and Company, Pitts­
burgh, Pa.Joseph Horne Company, Pitts­
burgh, Pa.Heinz House, Pittsburgh, Pa.Allegheny Girl Scout Headquar­ters, Pittsburgh, Pa.Grosvenor Neighborhood House, New York City.Associated Charities, Pittsburgh, Pa.Titusville Schools, Titusville, Pa.Pittsburgh Public Schools, Pitts­burgh, Pa.School for the Blind, Pittsburgh, 
Pa.Centerville Schools, Centerville, Pa.Morrisville Schools, Morrisvillc, N. J.Ellwood City Schools, Ellwood City, Pa.Beaver Falls Schools, Beaver Falls, Pa.Chadds Ford Schools, Chadds Ford, Pa.Washington Schools, Washington, Pa.Findlay Vocational School, Im­perial, Pa.Public Schools, McKeesport, Pa.Union Vocational School, Cor­sica, Pa.Public Schools,’ California, Pa.Public Schools, Wcirton, W. Va.Greenville Schools, Greenville, Pa.Brookville Schools, Brookvillc, Pa.McKees Rocks Schools, McKccs Rocks, Pa.Ambridgc Junior High School, Ambridgc, Pa.Dormont Public Schools, Dor- mont, Pa.
Miami University, Oxford-, Ohio.Braddock High school, Brad- dock, Pa.
BcljcVuc High . School, Bellevue, Pa.
Public Schools, Midway, Pa.Pennsylvania College ror Women, Pittsburgh, Pa.B-G Sandwich Shops, Cleveland, Ohio.
Stouffcrs Lunch, Inc., Pittsburgh, Pa.
Allegheny General Hospital, Pitts­burgh, Pa.
United States Veterans Hospital, Aspinwall, Pa.
Dr. Frank A. Evans, Pittsburgh, Pa.
Floyd A. Dcahl & Association, Ohio.
Baker, Sinionds" Company, Inc., Pittsburgh, Pa.Carnegie Institute, Pittsburgh, Pa.
Dr. O. M. Edwards, Pittsburgh, Pa.
Rust Engineering Company', Pitts­burgh, Pa.
Citizens Committee on City Plans, Pittsburgh, Pa.
Industrial Home for Crippled Children, Pittsburgh, Pa.
United States Chain and Forcing, Pittsburgh, Pa.
Guardian Life Insurance, Pitts­burgh, Pa.
Aluminum Company of America, Pittsburgh, Pa.
Pittsburgh-Des .Moines Steel Company, Pittsburgh, Pa.Ketch uni, MacLcod & C.rove, Pittsburgh, Pa.
Mothers’ Assistance Fund, Pitts­burgh, Pa,
American ElectrochemistsEstablish $100 PrizeAn annual prize of $100 in gold has been established by the board of directors of the American Elec­trochemical Society for the best paper printed in the two volumes of any year of the Transactions by a student or young college gradu­ate under 27 years of age. The judges to pass upon the merits of the manuscript are to be the mem­bers of the publication committee, this committee being at liberty' to invite the opinion of members not on the copimittcc, if thcyr choose. The first prize of '$100 is to be awarded for the best paper pre­sented at the spring a .d fall meet­ings in 1929. This prifcc is to be known as the American Electro­chemical Socictv prize—to be avail­able to all American or foreign technical schools and colleges, to students and young instructors— the object being to stimulate origi­nal work and encourage participa­tion in the proceedings of the so­ciety by scientifically and techni­cally trained men at an age when normally modcstp keeps them in the background, — ___
At the grave risk of incurring the suspicion of being a raving luna­tic, wc now make bold to claim that there is a joyr in tcxt-books. To our way of thinking, one of the greatest delights facing the return­ing student is that of assaulting the bookstore -for his copics of the new guides to knowledge.Naturally there are many stu­dents who do not run up a. fever of hope and expectation with ^re­gard to this matter. Strangely enough, we have encountered some who have remained utterly oblivi­ous of the title, let alone the con­tents of a particular text to a coursc for which they have sub­scribed hours of their time. We leave the. exploration of the urges and motives of this grim part of humanity to the more serious yroung novelists and dramatists of the day. They always seem to be at home delving into the rc- ccsscs of disordered, pathological minds.To the young man or woman whose reflexes have been condi­tioned in the casual, irresponsible way of old, and whose imagination can still be fired by revelation and novelty, collcgc offers u. grand op­portunity. For in cutting the leaves of the freshly'-printed man­uals and texts, does not one plunge headlong into new worlds, vividly patterned and fashioned? Of coursc, it is the mode to affect, a blase detachment from such silly notions, but the suspicion p&rsists that »when away from the dumbing e'rowd, almost all of us take a hidden peek now and then into these books.The first impression in any new experience carries with it an in­effable spirit perhaps never totally recoverable, a sav< ur that is never altogether dissipated. In this wa; the new course in psychology or biology or, economics, or even math­ematics is apt to affect one. The first days of collcgc arc bewilder­ing, to be sure, but the most in­cisively recorded, the most inefface­able are those emotions aroused by glancing into the new fields of . ex­ploration. Perhaps a grazing horse or cow has the same experience when introduced into a new . sec­tion of pasturage, being veritably overcome by the unlimited pros­pects revealed before it.Nothing undaunted, we might even assert with a good deal of confidence, that every student -.has always prepared the first assign­ment. No matter how lie may stray later on, and disregarding the degree of the reputation he may acquirc for not “cracking”’ a book or a subtle sense of divining the contents thereof, lie has looked at
the opening assignment. Humani­
ty, and especially the younger gen­
eration may be depraved and dc- 
cncrate, but it would be sheer 
effrontery’ to accuse them of letting slip such a golden moment of in­dulgence.Certainly as one bccomcs inured to the business of reading lessons and thumbing the pages, the nov­elty wears off. Familiarly with the subject matter breeds a discontent and a feeling of the limitations im­posed upon one by the scicnce in question. The same worn theorems, illustrations, laws, tendencies, and problems must stale and pall. Of course, the redoubtable individuals who arc occupied in football strate­gy, socializing and the like arc at an advantage here, as they do not allow their ardor to be cooled by familiarity with the coursc. But they make up for it. Indeed, in later years; many an old scasonc-^ halfback or chairman of the proitt committee is known to steal away for a few moments to satisfy' the 
desire to see what it was that pro­voked the professor to such demon­strative heights of zeal and . ora­tory'.To the worthy men on the in­structional staffs, the matter of a text may producc different effects. In fact, it is not unusual that they acquirc a thoroughgoing dislike and abhorrence for them. That is, until, their own particular vol­ume appears.’ But in the latter case, also there is hardly ever an engrossment and tension of inter­est as in the ease of. the freshman, bccausc many of the new texts rep­resent just so much arduous em­ployment of the pastcpot and the scissors, and the royalties arc hardly ever extremely compensa­tory. Some would dispense entire­ly with texts, but this would be effective in very' few cases, for where is the individual teacher so rich in study, experience and con­tinuity of his presentation as to fill in the gap effectively? Nothing is as convincing, probably, to most students as a fat, well-indexed text.There may be a market already, for all wc know, for the tcxt-books assigned for the new semester, and it is not unbojicvablc that many clioicc spirits among the student body have already buried the assignment sheets with a boast­ing exultation. However, the world is chock-full of new glories for that undergraduate who does dare t> take his books seriously. Are wc far wrong in maintaining that there arc far more of his kind than one dare admit at a pep meeting or’ a frat. initiation?cCT \r.
MICA
(Continued from Page 3)
Pa.Koppcrs Company, Pittsburgh,i.
Union National Bank, Pittsburgh, Pa.
Duff Manufacturing Company, Pittsburgh, Pa.
Stromach Is ail Company,’ Pitts­burgh, Pa.
Union Trust Company, Pitts­burgh, Pa.
A number of the graduates are continuing their education at Co­lumbia University, New. York, dur­ing the coming year.
ANTICIPATE LARGE
(Continued from Page 3)
electric meter practice, radio com­munication, automobile, maintenance and operation, printing, mathematics, physics and English.
In thc_ College of Fine Arts stu­dents with an inclination toward the arts are given the opportunity to express their natural aptitudes or to further develop in their chos­en work. Courses include a wide variety of subjects in the Depart­ments of Architecture, Painting and Decoration, Music and Sculpture.During the past, two or three years, it is pointed out, Carnegie officials have paid special attention to the development of graduate courses in engineering subjects that arc planned primarily for tech­nical men who have obtained the bachelor’s degree and who wish cither to take advanced courses in the field of their undergraduate work, or to take courses in sonic new field pertaining to the employ­ment in which they may now be engaged. Graduate courses arc be­ing offered this year in differential equations, Newtonian potential func­tion, advanced applied mechanics, electricity and matter, advanced physical chemistry, transportation, indeterminate structures, transmis­sion, heat engineering, and metal­lography* — -------- .-------------
paper is used, in order to assure flexibility no paper is ,uscd that does not come up( to standard. The mica splittings arc the highest grades that can be obtained, and arc held in place by organic bonds developed for the application for which the wrapper is intended, every' square inch of the wrappers is subjected to at least 3,000 volts test which picks out the weak spots, and also visually inspected for foreign material, this insures that only wrappers that arc thin,' flexible, high in dielectric strength, and uniform in thickness arc used, using this wrapper a very compact ccll of minimum thickncss can be secured. Mica tape is built on an automatic machine from the best grade of splittings hand layed and a high grade of tissue paper im­ported from Japan, which is select­ed for strength and thickness, the bond used allows the tape to be tightened up by hand after apply­ing to the conductor, and makes the tape stay in place, to keep.it fresh and pliable it is packed in air tight tin- cans, it will remain flexible for. a reasonable time, but if exposed to air, will gradually lose its flexibility.
Tower building. Mica plate built mechanically in a tower about 25 feet high, the mica. splittings and dry shellac are dropped down the Tower falling into receivers, where the sheets arc formed. The quan­tity of shellac allowed for each i sheet is very important, for com- • mutator segment insulation con­tains but 3 to 5 per cent shellac, evenly distributed throughout the sheet so that it will not collect in low spots and pockets, and so that uniform density can be secured, segment mica should contain the following characteristics: Uniform^thickness and density, high specific weight, extremely low .compressi­bility, very small shellac content. Too much stress can hot be laid on the importance of manufactur- in" commutator bar insulation; that j is not sujijcct to oozing, shrinking jor slipping.I Moulding mica for commutatorV rings-.and bush, turbo cells, ar­mature insulation, cross connecting rings, railway bars, and for vari­ous application where a bond con­tent of 10 to 12 per cent is per­missible, this build up mica when heated at 150 degrees Centigradte be.omes soft and flexible and is easily formed and moulded to any required shape. The thinnest is .010 thick which is used for soldV rings, Bars, and Tubes for grid resistors, it is manufactured to any thickness up to .0^3, if a heavier plate is required, two layers are pressed together.
H. F. S.
IDLE THOUGHTS OF AN
IDLE NIGHT STUDENT
(Continued from Page 3)
we hope that they will not book o::. own book shop out of business, as wc sort of enjoy moseying down there once in a while even though it is just to buy a tablet or some­thing. .Wc at least see anoLhcr part of the building and have a good excuse for being late at classcs.
The industrious man is light­hearted—the man who works is the 
happy, man,-—Elbert. Hubbard. ___
Carnegie Athletes Win
(Continued from Page 5)
n which lie ran intcrfcrcncc. made possible the great runs byMoorc­hcad. It was unfortunate Eytli was removed from the gam« before lie could reveal his sterling worth as a running half. Tint game showed that Tech has poten­tial strength but much work will have to be done before a smooth working combination is secured.
The game as a whole left niuclt to be desired if Carnegie is to rank high in football circlcs tlii’.s y'Car. A certain inconsistency of play must, and will, be overcome before the major encounters of the season. Fumbles were more fre­quent than is to be desired in a college eleven, and the aerial attack could stand some development. 
However, these early season games are intended to show up any de­fect in a grid machine and are no exact criterion of a team’s true ability. It takes time to develop a smooth attack. The end and backlield positions, it seems, are still the questionable berths. Changes were made on Saturday both on the terminals and in the backlield, the latter being rear­ranged during the sccoiid half. It: would not be at all surprising if the more experienced men get the call over-the recruits as the season advances. There are plenty of tough opponents on this year’s schedule, so the oucstion .of tlie makeup of the team will not bedecided in a day. It is indeed for­tunate for Carnegie that this doubt exists as it is not very often that a team possesses such an abun­dance of good material that the coaches have no easy time pickingout the best. Every man on thesquad will be needed before the Plaid finish with Notre Dame. Pitt, W. and J., New York U. and the rest. No matter what the final makeup will be everyone is behind the team and everyone places full confidence in Coaches Steffen and Waddell and knowsthat they will producc a true Car­
negie team.
Tech—32 Westminster—6L. Flannagan— LE ----------ForshnSchmidt_______ LT_DombrowskiLovewell---------- LG -----,-----AyersDreshar_______ C --------------BoonSelinupp —_— RG -----------FullerHighbcrger----- RT-----Furno (C)Roscncweig----- RE -----------PipolyHarpster (C)__QB ______HolzapelLetzelter_____ RH -------------11 allEytli__________ l.H ______LauderKarcis_________ FB _____11 av rill aScore by periods:Tech_______ 6 10 0 . 7—32Westminster- 0 0 0 6— 6Substitutions — Carnegie Tech: Sweet for L. Flanagan, Marshall for Highbcrger, Kousman for Ren- zeweig, Moorchcad lor Eytli, Ken­nedy for Moorchcad,. Lctzcltcr for Karcis, T. Flanagan for Letzelter, 
Morbito for T. Flanagan. West­minster: Fisher for Dombrowski, Sweet for Ayers, Kruger for Boone, Dishong for Furno, Mich­aels for Lauder, Campbell forMichaels, Dible for Hall, Palmer for Dible. Touchdowns — Moorc­hcad 2, Karcis 2, Drcshcr, Pipoly. Points after touchdowns—Harpster 3, placement. Missed points—Marp- stcr 2, Holzapel. First downs— Tech 13, Westminster Official^. Of­ficials—Referee: W. G. Crowdcll, Tufts; umpire, Henry Blum, Pitts; burgh; head lines, Carl Pcbcle, 
Penn State; time of periods—15 minutes,--------------------- ----------,

---------------------------------------------------

TUESDAY, OCTOBER 2, 1928.THE CARNEGIE TARTAN
WE CONGRATULATE Dyke Becdc on his 1928 gridiron 
eleven. His team went on the field acknowledged beaten, but 
they put up a scrappy game that was well worth seeing. With 
a number of their best players injured they fought a losing bat­
tle and a final desperate spurt in the last two minutes gave them 
their coveted six points. Perhaps they had some breaks but 
that is football.
THE CARNEGIE ELEVEN gave a typical first game per­
formance, but as a whole lived up to expectations. .Without 
the slightest doubt there were many defects that should and 
will be ironed out this week. With the stands full of scouts, 
Wally didn’t uncover his pet formations—they are being saved 
:or a more formidable opponent. One thing, however, is very 
apparent; the line, big as it is, can be scored against.
ALL THE PLAYERS gave an excellent account of them­
selves, especially Moorehead, who was the outstanding player 
of the day. However, his performance depended upon the ex­
cellent support and interference given by the rest of the squad, 
tfarpster’s passing and field generalship were good, but his kick­
ing was terrible; Dreshar bounced a few back and the whole 
squad was guilty of several off-side plays and a number of 
fumbles. Undoubtedly this was caused by nervousness and per­
haps a little over-confidence, which will be smoothed over in a 
week or so.
ASHLAND, the Tartan's opponent on .Saturday:, is another 
pne of those snaps'which many peopje consider in the bag. Un­
doubtedly it will be; it should be easier than Westminster, but 
we are always wary of these small colleges, they often make up 
in determination what they lack in ability. Practice game or 
not, we predict a large crowd Saturday to see the Tartan eleven 
in' action.. • *******
INTERESTING SIDELIGHTS of the game: Graham
¡VEcNamee, famous radio announcer, was at the mike for the 
second and final quarters. Graham circled the track in. the first 
quarter, in an open car, but was absolutely ignored by the spec­
tators— they were; too busy watching a very, very interesting 
game.' Between halves, while the KiJ.ts. played, a ten-tyear-qld 
Italian kid amused the crowd with many and varied tumbling 
¡tilts. He was really good and deserved all of the great amount 
of applause he received. Rayen High has one of the best small 
•>tadiums. we have ever seen. Many high schools arc far. ahead 
of, the. average college when it comes to stadiums, equipment 
ind jclveering.********
NOTRE DAME considers the Tartan invasion the one big 
event of their season. In reviewing their 1928 football schedule, 
“The Notre Dame Scholastic,” the school paper, comments 
thusly on the coming tussle with “Wally’s Wizards: “But
November 17 will be the red-letter day on the Rockne program. 
At that time the ‘Fighting Scotch’ of Carnegie Tech will wage war 
with the ‘Fighting Irish’ of Notre Dame. The Tartans have a 
line which averages 200 pounds; a backfield averaging 185 
pounds, and a reputation that has no regard for averages. This 
game will probably .be the most intensely-fought contest on the 
Irish schedule.” These averages are slightly exaggerated, but 
’tis rumored that in their scrimmage practice the scrub team 
wear red jerseys???
VISITORS AND STUDENTS from the Irish stronghold 
1^*11 RY that the coming Steffen-Rockne argument,is the;i..one,:a.nd! 
(only topic of conversation. Army, Navy, Georgia Tech, are 
only mere incidentals to be overcome before the Skibos are anni­
hilated. If hotel accommodations are desired it is their advice 
to secure them now. However, if Wally repeats his famous 
victory, which he undoubtedly will, there will be all hades raised 
in South Bend that night—accommodations or not, only the 
well illuminated will' sleep.*******
SAUL MEILZINER is up and around, but more like a 
shadow than the varsity’s biggest warrior. Right now he looks 
lik<i a better end than a center. He prophesies ableness to get 
in the W. & J'. tangle—we hope so, but it sounds optimistic. 
Ten days after being separated from his appendix “Sol” was 
attempting, to get into football togs.».. *******
. WHAT’S THE MATTER, Plebes? Very few have shown 
up for freshman football practice. If you were any good at all 
in high school you have all the chance in the world to make 
yotir numerals on the Plebe eleven. Right now there are plenty 
of ’berths open, either as substitute or regular. Report at once.
ANOTHER TIP—varsity and freshman managerships of 
football are two of the biggest honors obtainable in this “Insti­
tute of Higher Learning.” One must start as a Plebe td get 
these coveted positions. Report any afternoon at the field house, 
freshmen, the sooner the better.* * * * * * *
FAEL TENNIS tournament will be under way this week, 
with everyone, plebe and varsity men included, invited to enter. 
Although these tournaments are never completed they usually 
serve their purpose in uncovering promising material. Next
£<VD.
FIVE VALUABLE TARTANS
year’s net squad will suffer from the loss of Hooper, Glasser 
and Schmidt, but Paffee, Berghane, Carpenter, Cambaugh, Bron­
son and Tener.;should shape up into a. winning team.*• * * ;* * * *
• GUY HALFE’RTY .is rapidly rounding his cross-country 
;squad : into shape, to open the season October 12 with Thiel. 
¡We have often wondered why these meets are not so timed 
that'the runners could finish between halves of the football 
game. - It would be more spectacular,.' increase, student interest 
and make cross-country more popular; it is often done in other 
colleges. .Cross-country also, needs, freshman material and man­
agers.
HALFERTY PREPARES 
TO OPEN SEASON
Geneva Meet Cancelled; Open Sea­
son October 12 With Thiel.
All-Carnegie Tennis
Tournament Opens
Annual Competition Designed to Uncover Varsity and Plebe Material.
The W;car.y hours, of breathless waiting "and expectancy arc at ¡an ¦end. . The big question'.on the lips ’;oi every , true .Carnegi'c man has !ieceived, . an aus.wer. There will 
¡be .a tennis tournament this fall! /Undaunted by the continual co'ld and threats of approaching winter, 
Coach Hoover and Varsity .Man­ager’ I DougTiexly,,' ’ wi tliflre'w ¦ Into a 
deep and serious, conference out .of ¡..which emerged. pi:ms for Carnegie’s 
Exnirth .Annual.Fall Tennis. Tourna­ment.''The tournament this year isopen 
i to, -every - one in - school, except faculty member's. 'Uiilike past yfcars, 
Plebe and varsity men are welcome to enter. Entries will be received up to and including Friday, Oc­tober 5. A small fee, probably 
50 cents, will. be charged. An en­try sheet., bearing all necessary in­structions will be posted on the gym bulletin board. All desiring to enter the tournament must sign 
this sheet.Tennis tournaments are ¦: held every fall under the supervision of Coach Hoover. By this method he can line up promising material for 
the coming spring. Therefore, all students, Plebes especially, who arc proficient in the game, are strong-, ly urged to enter , the contest1.. To 
.the. \vinning player," a suitable' tro­phy willi be awarded.From the student's’ viewpoint the 
tournaments of |he»past three years have not been entirely successful. Rain, wind and even snow have prevented the matches fr.pm reach­
ing the finals. Laxness on the part of the players in playing off tiicir matches has also withheld
any successful terminations. How­
ever, from Coach Hoover’s view­point, the matches have been en­tirely worthwhile. Much valuable 
material has thus been discovered that might, otherwise, have re­mained unknown. This fact alone is sufficient reason for the con­
tinuance*, of the tournaments.From present indications, Car­negie calir look forward to a suc­cessful season of tennis.' Several excellent players will not return, but there are new men who look as if they might fill in the gaps. Hooper, the .strong, man of last year’s varsity, is lost by gradua­tion,^vyliile Glasser and Schmidt arc not returning "ter scliobl. .. To offset these' bad tidings, is 
the news that Bob 'Caffee has re­turned to Cam£$’ie£ Caffee starred on the Plebe team in ’26 and on 
the varsity the following spring. Back, after a1 year’s absence, great things' are expected of him.Berghane, number .one man on last year’s freshman squad, will be cut for. the varsity next spring. Berghane made a name for him­self this summer by going to the finals in the open tournament held at Eric. To reach this position,, lie overcame some stiff opposition, the \ most; difficult being McCaskey, well-known Buckhcll star. The Tar­tan player was defeated in a hard- fought linals by Bowers of Pitt.
.. In . addition' to_ the above men­tioned, men, four varsity players aj;e' returning, . Captain Carpenter) Cambaugh, Bronson and . Tencr.
¡These; men have spent an active summer taking’, part in matches 
and tournaments and acquiring an added degree of skill and experi­ence.
CARNEGIE
jfVE. 
"RoBinzweiir (18ii)' L lir.
Schmipp (2.10) Lovewell (200)
Hifchberjrer (19fi) Drcshar (192) Schmidt (205)
Wurstler TidierBnkcr * StnufTcr McCucn M. Johnson
oASHLAND
Girls’ Annual Doubles Tennis 
Tournament to be Played Off 
During the Month of October
The girls’ annual doubles ten­nis tournament which is held every fall will begin this. week. As the tennis season is rapidly drawing to a close, it is intended that the first round will be entirely played off bj' the end of this week so that the finals may be completed within 
the next few weeks. All girls who can play tennis are urged to en­ter the tournament without delay and to sign, up bn the posters which are .placed on the Fine Arts and Margaret Morrison bulletins. Special W. A. A. tennis court per­mits are available in the girls’ gym office and may be borrowed, free of charge, at any time for the pur­pose. of practicing or engaging in the tournament provided they are 
prompt^ returned. A schedule of the matches will be posted as soon as possible, and all participants arc to watch the bulletins and play with their assigned opponents with­out delay. Athletic points are 
awarded to those who play in a sufficient number of games.A meeting of the Women’s Ath­letic Association Board will be held Wednesday at 12:30, cither in room 101 or in the Carnegie Inn, as an­
nounced on the bulletins. As this is a most important meeting every member is requested • to appear promptly.
CABARET DINNER DANCE
(Continued from page two)
which should be done now in order to obtain good seats, . fill out the above* blank and insure yourselves for two days of happiness. Don’t fail to come.
Coach Iialfcrty was greeted by a large number of cross-country prospects last Wednesday at the initial practice session of the sea­son. . The first practice was rather light, but Halferty has plenty of work in ^tore for his hill and 
dalers before the opening of "the season with Thiel College on Oc­tober 12. Geneva, one of the strongest squads in the Tri-State district, was originally scheduled for the opener on October 5, but due to the fact that the Plaid men have started training this season 
rather late, it was deemed unwise to meet the Covenanters so early in the season. The meet was con- celled, but it is more than probable that the Beaver County boys will be met on one of the open datc's: later on in the year.
Tliicl, though a small school, has usually boasted strong cross-coun­try teams. The meeting with them is certain to be a trying test for 'the Carnegie men, since the Luth­
erans have almost a veteran team. Halferty is banking on several of last year’s veterans, Captain Camp­bell, Hubbard, Crawford, Salkin, McCombs and Hobe, augmented by 
a few of last year’s Plebe stars, McClure, Worley, and a few others 
to uphold the Plaid’s former presr; 
tige in this strenuous sport. The
Plebes Pry Lid Off Grid 
Season with 18-0 Win Over 
St. Vincents College Sat.
ITRAtC UATblE to Co-E GRth 
AttTck DRC-lTyEN By 
CTrAERE FroCh.
Journeying to St. Vincent’s Col­lege at Beatty, Pa., the Plebes un- corkcd a flashing aerial • attack which netted them an 1S-0 win when the final whistle blew. Much* had been heard about the Saints’ strong team of ’28, and it showed great improvement over their ’27 squad, but it was certain defeat for them under the slashing, fight­ing onslaught of the Frosh. The 
game was. replete with surprises, for both teams were using the forward pass to great advantage, 
and with two teams using this mode bf attack it is never certain wliat^ is going to happen. Two captains were appointed for the Plebes, McCurdy for the first half and DuCanis for the second.
Captain O’Donncli of the Saints chose to rcccivc and Arincntrout kicked off. The ball was worked 
back and forth on an exchange of' plays and punts for the first 10 minutes of play. At this point’ Armentrout caught a 20-yard pass from Fletcher and ran an addi­tional 18 yard for the Plebes’ first touchdown. McCurdy mis^d his try for extra point. Armentrout kicked off again and play started in/ the niiddle of the field. R. Daley received a pass that netted the Saints a- 45-yard gain, which Was their most spccticular bit of play during the entire game.. 
Through a succession of punts, in­tercepted passes' and plays St. Vin­
cent’s worked the ball to Carnegie’s llr-yard line. Carnegie’s line held ai this point and McCurdy pUiitcd out of danger. The half ended 
with the ball in Carnegie terri­tory and the score 6-0.
In the second half the ball was rapidly worked back and forth in mid-field.j The ball was. on:Tech’s 35-yard line when. DuCanis inter­cepted a pass and ran 65 yards for a touchdown. The try for point 
was, again unsuccessful. Repeating DuCanis’ feat, McCurdy in the final quarter, intercepted a pass and ran 55. yards for the last, touchdown. 
This try for point after touchdown was also unsuccessful. During the remainder of the game neither of the two sides made any serious threats to score.
McCurdy consistently outpuntcd St. Vincent’s kicker; he also played
a heady game at quarter and a safety man. Ziegler’s and Archer’s play featured end runs, while Ewing’s gains were generally made on cross-buck plays. The entire line played a good, consistent game 
throughout the entire contest. Ar­mentrout showed well at tackling and on the reviving end of passes. DuCanis’ performance was out­
standing at the snapper-back posi­tion as he did not make a bad pass. The only injury of the game was 
in the last few minutes of play when Walter Kozicki was forced out of play by an injured leg muscle. Penalties were legion in the game as Carnegie received 143 yards loss and St. Vincent’s 6S 
yards loss through this medium.After the game Manager Widom escorted the team to Grcensburg where lie treated them to a much enjoyed dinner at the Elks' Club. Manager Widom has arranged an­other motor coaCh trip when the Frosh have Kiski as their oppo­nents at Saltsburg, Pa., next Sat­urday. Kiski always has a good eleven and is probably the Plebes’ most feared opponent. ,
Carnegie Frosh—18 St. Vincent—0Armentrout __L.E____ SuspanskiFlctchcr _____L.T.-____• CampbellPerch ________L.G----- YankovichDuCanis ______C___;_ O’DonnellKozichki ^____R.G.—_ McKinneyStauffer ______R.T.---------- OrtnerMatia ----------__R.E------------ BoyleMcCurdy ___—------------------ RizzoArcher ________L.H.—:— MannioiiZiegler -----------R.H-----R. DaleyEwing -------------F.B___;____ BindaSubstitutions—Carnegie: Widmer for Kozicki, Boucck for Perch, Pquncey for Archer. St. Vincent: Zapponc for Ortner, Ross .forRizzo, Schiiley for Binda, M. Daley for R. Daley,’ Binda for Schulcy, Butala for Binda, Paytash for Yankovitch, Kir'chner for Ross,Jcssico for Mannioii, Milliron for O’Dosncll, Ross for Kircluicr, Rizzo for Ross, Binda for Butala, Butala for Binda. Touchdowns:. Armentrout, DuCanis, McCurdy. Referee: Schrcck, W.&J. Umpire:: McMillan, Pitt. Head linesman:, Gannon, Wilmcrding Y. M. C. A.
men realize that they have a hard season ahead of them and arc faithfully traversing the gullies and by-ways of the- Schcnlcy Park 
course, hoping to be in the pink of condition for the inaugural of 
the season with Thiel.Although the numbers of the squad have been greatly swelled by the rising of Cross Country run­ning’ as à popular sport, Coach 
Halferty is ever'willing'to hand out suits-to new men .'who. may care to try out for the team. Cross 
country running, despite the exer­tion, • is excellent exercise for long­
distance trackmen. Any long-dis­
tance men, therefore, - would bene­
fit immensely for the coming track season by joining the Harriers.
Carnegie Athletes Win
(Continued, from Page 1) •
Carnegie’s rush in midfield.The third period opened- with a change in Carnegie’s lineup. Sweet was .sent to end in place of L. Flanagan, Lctzeltcr to fullback and T. Flanagan to half. No scores were made by eithfcr side, but Car­negie gained 25 yards and then 11 in two successive tries. Westmin­ster gained possession of the ball but lost it on a fumble. The period ended as Moorehead ran 12 yards 
to the 4 yard line,' On the sec­ond try of the last quarter,' Moore- head slipped around, right end- for Carnegie’s fifth touchdown. Harp- stcr made the extra point and . fin­ished up the Tartan’s scoring for the day.It was not until the .waning_ min­utes of the game that Westminster made its only touchdown. T cch 
attempted a series of passes and, unluckily, one of them was inter­cepted on the Plaid’s 25 yard line by Palmer, who was not downed until he had reached the 3 .yard marker. For two plays Carnegie’s line held but a forward pass, Hol- zapel to Pipoly, gave Westminster its only points of the day. This last play ended the game as far' as any spcctaculair playing was con­cerned and the final whistle .left the scorc at 32 to 6.The high spots of tlie'gainc were
tlie sensational end runs of Glent Moorehead. It seems as if he was able to gain at will and his 75 yard dash for a touchdown in thq sccond quarter was a masterpiece.! Letzclter and Karcis did well at | fullback, while Captain , Harpster i carried the burden of punting and passing in his usual brilliant man­ner. It was unfortunate that Eythi jwas injured so early in the game,I for his presence would undoubtedly 
• have meant much to the Plaid. His initial exhibition was thrilling to watch. The line performed wn,ll I a'ld effectively .stopped Avhat li e attack Westminster was able to offer, only four first downs being registered against it. while Car­negie was running up 13. The Tartan’s aerial game was not func­tioning as it should, but still 6 lout of 12 passes were completed to one for-Westminster.
The game, which served as the j opening guri of the-.scason, was cx- i tremely hard fought, and those [supporters who made the trip were rewarded by seeing one of the strongest teams that Steffen and Waddell- have ever welded to­gether. Only at times did the Tartans display their real strength, but when they did they undoubted­ly stuck fear into the hearts of men from Pitt and W. and J. who scouted Wally’s proteges for their respective schools.
The crimson men were handi­capped by the fact that they were not supposed to open up. The op­position -used a seven man line 
on the defense through which it was very difficult to make any considerable yardage. This system leaves only four men in the back- ficld, which weakens the defense against Rassing. Harpster did not use many passes, for he would have revealed to enemy scouts much of Tech’s great passing at­tack which is so vital to any mod­ern team. Had lie called more passes the score would have been much higher, but the cage}' Tar­tan quarter wisely elected not to revert to an overhead attack.
At the start of the contest, Tech’s play was ragged and much fumbliiig'made the’game seem dull. Late in the first quarter, however, stride and John Karcis, Wally’s bar­
reled bodied fullback, tore through the line and, after bowling over the- bodied fullback, tore through the line and, after bowling over the secondary defense, scored the first touchdown. ; The rest of the first half the, ;Crihison Tide rolled the Presbyterians to score 19 moro points.
In the sccond half with a com­manding lead the Carnegie men­tors thought it safe to bench Karcis, who had been bearing the brunt of the Tech offense. Glenn Moorehead continued to sweep the ends and receive passes in a man­ner which pleased all those on the Tech sidelines. Late in the fourth quarter Palmer intercepted a pass and ran to Carnegie’s one yard line. Here the Carnegie line show­ed its strength and after three plays, Westminster was four yards from their objective. On the next play they completed a pass and the receiver dove over the last chalk mark for the Titans’ only rally. Three minutes after Carnegie's goal was crossed the game was over., Harpster played his usual game, which means that his kicking and passing were excellent, and his field generalship was perfect. Kar­cis and Moorehead proved that they are worthy of a place on any football team. Although Letzclter seldom carried the ball the manner (Continued on Page 6}
Old Gold hits a
in blindfold
homer for Babe ïLuth 
cigarette test
11Yes, lam well over 21... so. 
I could see no reason why I 
shouldn’t make the blindfold 
test. As I tried the four lead­
ing cigarettes I kept this ‘box 
score* on the results;
No. 1 . . . . out at first 
No. 2 . . this one ‘fanped’ 
No. 3 . . out on a pop fly 
No. 4 (old gold) # home run hit!
‘‘OLD GOLD’S mildness and 
smoothness marked it ‘right 
off the bat’ as the best.”
7
The idol o£ the baseball world « • • 
“The King of Swat”
BABE RUTH . . . making the teit in th® 
dressing room at the Yankee Stadium. Hewn* 
asked to smoke each of the four leading brands, 
clearing his taste with black coffee between 
aruokes. Only, one question was asked: "Which 
one do you like best ?"
|Why do they choose OLD GOLD ... even in the dark?
What is this superiority that wins so many famous 
people? It’s simply honey-like smoothness . . . the new 
and delightful quality that Old Gold has added to
cigarettes. And it comes from the hcart-leaves of the 
tobacco plant . . . the finest tobacco that grows. That’s 
why you can pick Old Golds with your eyes closed.
i.®P71,1 TBCA»W OFTHfM to i 
O P. Lorillard Co., Est. 1760
iV^ade from the fteart-leaves 
of the tobacco plant
Yale plans to build a field gym­nasium for use of its athlctic teams I during the winter months 1SMOOTHER AND BETTER-“NOT A COUGH IN A CARLOAD”
