Weavers Entertain At
This coming Saturday, April 14, 
will be the first Tech Candidates’ 
Day. This year the prospective 
freshmen will tour the campus in 
mass instead of in little groups 
which was the past policy.
Invitations to attend Saturday’s 
functions were sent to all the 
1400 high school senitrs who have 
been accepted. As of now, over 
£5 of them have replied in the 
m'irmative. Considering the fact 
that each candidate coming will 
probably bring at least one pa- 
ent, relative or friend, there 
>hould be well over 1000 people 
^siting the campus.
At 10:00 a.m. all visitors will 
fteet in Skibo’s Ballroom, where 
JJief welcoming addresses will be 
i<ven by the president of Stu- 
?
dent Congress, Bill Ellis, Dean 
Brown, Dean of student affairs, 
and Ken Wanger, a member of 
the Public Relations Office.
Then the students will be es­
corted to their respective col­
leges, where they will be address­
ed by the Deans, while their pa­
rents and relatives will be having 
a coffee break in the Faculty 
Dining Room of Skibo.
While the students tour their 
various respective departments, 
the Deans will address the pa­
rents. Tau Beta Pi will conduct 
the tour for the E&S students, 
while Margaret Morrison and Fine 
Arts students will be escorted by 
members of the two colleges.
After the Deans have finished 
[continued on page 6]
America’s most popular folk- 
singing group, the Weavers will 
entertain here on May 11, the Fri­
day night of Spring Carnival. Fcr 
the past ten years The Weavers 
have been acclaimed and recog­
nized as the folk music quartet 
that has been largely responsible 
for the rise and interest in folk 
music, which has gained consider­
able audiences throughout the 
country.
The Weavers have appeared at 
major concert halls in this country 
as well as Canada, Europe and Is­
rael. Their identification with the 
songs, “Goodnight Irene,” “On Top
of Old Smokey.” “Kisses Sweeter 
Than Wine,” and many others, 1 
has made these “old” folk songs ! 
as good as new. Along with their j 
concerts, they have continued to j 
make best selling records for Van­
guard.
There will be a Student Con­
gress meeting today, April 11, j 
1962, at 4:30 in the Wherrett 
Lounge, Skibo. These next two 
meetings, today and April 25, 
will be very important since 
elections will be held the first 
week in May.
Carnival
The Weavers consist of Lee 
Hays, Fred Hellerman, Ronnie 
bert, and Erick Darling. Each of 
the members has also worked in 
other fields of music such as com* 
posing, accompanying, lyric writ­
ing, or musical advising.
Harold Betters
On Saturday May 12, Harold Bel 
ters’ eight piece band w ill play for 
the Spring Carnival Dance. Harold 
Betters, a trombone players, is a 
well-known night club entertainer 
in the Pittsburgh area; he fre­
quents the Pink Cloud in Oakland 
and the Encore in Shadyside.
«^CARNEGIE
TARTAN
-----------------------------
CARNEGIE INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY
VOLUME 54 — NUMBER 23 WEDNESDAY, APRIL 11, 1962
Candidates ’ Day For 
Prospective Freshmen
Commission Explains 
Fair Education Laws
* The Legislature of the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania 
enacted Public Laws 47 and 776 in 1961. Both of these laws 
deal with Fair Education practices in the Commonwealth.
Recently, the Pennsylvania Human Relations Commis­
sion issued interpretive regulations regarding these laws 
which require thorough study and review of Carnegie Tech’s
relationship with any student or-4---------------------------------------------------------
ganization that excludes or dis­
criminates against any indididual 
on account of race, color, religious 
fcreed, ancestry or national origin.
Inasmuch as these interpretive
regulations are equally applicable, 
all other educational institutions 
within the Commonwealth must 
engage in a Similar study and re­
view. The specific interpretive 
ruling involved herein is 403.01 
(a) which makes it an unlawful 
discriminatory practice . . .
“To give official school sanc­
tion to any social, honorary, or 
professional fraternity, sorority or 
other student organization, if 
such organization excludes or dis­
criminates against any individual 
on account of race, color, reli-
gious creed, ancestry or national 
crigin.”
Our administration is studying 
this matter and pressing the Hu­
man Relations Commission for de­
tails and implications of this rul­
ing. We will continue our quest to 
secure clarification and will keep 
the student body informed of de­
velopments. At the appropriate 
time, we will arrange meetings 
with student organizations con­
cerned.
Copies of the official interpre­
tive rulings of the Pennsylvania 
Human Relations Commission will 
be available for officers of inter­
ested organizations at Dean 
Brown’s office, by Thursday, April 
12.
The Weavers
Military Ball Queen 
? Finalists Chosen
Ackermann, Grumer, Klinke, 
Straf Head New Tartan Staff
Next week the Carnegie Tartan 
will be in new hands as the staff 
for the 1962-63 activities year be­
gins work. The staff, announced 
last week at the Tartan Banquet, 
will be headed by Marin Acker- 
mann, Editor-in-Chief.
Marty will be assisted by 
Elaine Grumer, Executive Editor; 
Fritz Klinke, Managing Editor; 
Miron Straf, Business Manager; 
and the staff editors.
The new staff editors are:
News Editor—
Joyce Holy 
Assistant News Editor—•
Margie Park 
Features Editor—
B. J. Zimnewicz 
Advertising Manager—•
Charles Ho Fook 
Copy Editor—
Anne Moser 
Sports Editor—
John Blue 
Layout Editor—
Allan Pollock 
Secretarial Editor—- 
Miriam Gillespie 
Circulation Editor—
Mike Greenawalt 
A new staff department, the 
Editorial Board, has been formed 
to decide Tartan policy and to 
stimulate campus interest in cam­
pus problems. The Board includes: 
[continued on page 2]
Elaine Grumer
Miron Straf
Marty Ackemann
Peggy Riva
Patricia Jean Murray
Fritz Klinke
On Tuesday, April 3, the field of 
thirteen candidates for Military Ball 
Queen was narrowed to four finalists by 
a student vote. These four, Elizabeth Kim, 
Pat Murray, Peggy Riva, and Claire Ruge, 
will be presented to the R.O.T.C. Regiment 
on Thursday, April 12. The cadets will then 
choose the Honorary Regimental com­
mander who will reign as queen of the 
Military Ball this coming Saturday night. 
The three remaining girls will serve as 
her attendants.
Claire RuçeElizabeth Kim

---------------------------------------------------

JPage 2 — THE CARNEGIE TARTAN — Wednesday, April 11, 1962
Professor Robert W. Corrigan, 
Andrew Mellon Professor of Dra­
ma at Carnegie Institute of Tech­
nology, was one of four guest 
speakers to participate in the First 
Western Canadian Educational 
Theatre Conference held April 6, 
7, and 8, at the Studio Theatre on 
the Edmonton campus of the Uni­
versity of Alberta.
Other participants in the con­
ference, which has as its theme 
“New Directions in Theatre,” are 
Horace Robinson, acting head of 
the speech and drama department 
at the University of Oregon, Syd­
ney Risk, assistant professor of 
drama at the University of British 
Columbia, and Emrys T. Jones, 
head of the drama department at 
the University of Saskatchewan. 
Chairman for the three-day event 
was Professor Gordon Peacock, 
head of the drama division at the 
University of Alberta.
In addition to keynote speeches 
and discussions, the conference 
featured a demonstration and 
panel on secondary school drama, 
a symposium on new and signifi­
cant trends in Canadian play- 
wrighting, and a visit to the Stu­
dio Theatre production of Wil­
ier Watson’s new play Cockrow 
tod the Gulls.
Professor Corrigan, who has 
been at Carnegie Tech since Sep- 
tember, 1961, spoke on ‘Theatre 
in Seach of a Fix.”
Summer Jobs EUROPE
THE 'new* WAY TO 
SEE and ’five' EUROPE
SPECIALIZING In
’European Safaris'
>’»r Rammer Job* or Tt«n Writ«: 
American Stedent Informatioa 
Service,
22, A venae ie U I-iberte, 
L«»mb*ir('Ciir,
Dt*hy of Lavembearg
’Europe uapn Sfi srf' tEut CapSEfirg Tuape uap cpee tEur 
urS ftEpa Tfah fT BikcNo taureBfatutNfrl yEut Sfi BafkukcS 
gfr-t apucNwp Ne Ef' hioE cpeel dfa u Bcpueurt eiaBaNepn 
oEpos tEp hfrpSFeu,NrI CapSEfirg Tuape kpcf'l vfi-cc epp 
ut u Icurop 'ES Nt uc'uSe BuSe tf NreNet fr pLocieN,p 
CapSEfirg boprNoaiNepa bpa,NopPllurg cpu,p tEp gaN,NrI tf ie.
No other form of public transportation has fares so low. For example:
CLEVELAND
One-way $4.85 Round Trip $8.7S
NEW YORK
One-way $12.85 Round Trip $23.15
WASHINGTON
One-way $8.80 Round Trip* S13.M
CHICAGO
One-way $14.05 Round Trip* $21.1«
DETROIT
One-way $t.M Round Trip $17.85
MIAMI
One-way $36.95 Round Trip $66.60
BOSTON
One-way $19.10 Round Trip $34.95
ATLANTIC CITY
One-way $21.00 Round Trip $37*0
NORFOLK
One-way $15.35 Round Trip $27.05 
*30 Day Excursion
BAGGAGE! You can take more with you on a Greyhound. If you prefer, tend laundry or extra baggage on ahead by Greyhound Package Express. It'» there m hours... and cost« you tes».
GREYHOUND
Eleventh at LibertyEXpress 1-230«
----------
The look of a Coach 
House suit is natural 
shouldered and tradi­
tional. It’s stand on 
cloth, cut and color 
will easily pass the 
purist’s scrutiny. This 
particular Dacron and 
Wool sxiit is $55.00. 
Available in misted 
solid colors, muted 
glens, hairlines — one 
is bound to be just 
right for you.
Phone JA 1-7600
Open Tuesday and Thursday 
evenings until 9:00
(Eoatty p cmse
Traditional Apparel for Men 
5823 Forbes Ave. Squirrel Hill
CLUB & 
CAMPUS 
FASHIONS*
Absenteeism
Regulations
Revised
BULLETIN
BOARD
Class absentee regulations in 
the Faculty Blue Book have been 
revised by the Executive Board 
after concurrence by the fac­
ulty acting through its Executive 
Committee. At present the Blue 
Book reads (1) The instructor is 
responsible for the settlement of 
all matters pertaining to attend­
ance in his classes and (2) a daily 
attendance record of all students 
should be kept. This constitutes a 
permanent, record and must be 
preserved. This section has been 
revised as follows: (1) reads the 
same and (2) The instructor may 
keep a daily attendance record of 
his students or not do so accord­
ing to what he believes to be in 
the best interest of educational 
accomplishment. All faculty, how­
ever, are expected to be alert to 
absenteeism that is detrimental to 
a student’s performance, and to 
call to the attention of the appro­
priate faculty advisor or dean 
such cases of repeated or prolong­
ed absence as are detrimental to 
the students progress.
Presently both the Blue Book 
and the White read; all classes j 
will be held at the scheduled hour 
on the day before and after 
Thanksgiving, Christmas, and 
Easter recess, except with permis­
sion of the dean. Each instructor 
will report to the student’s dean 
for appropriate action the name ( 
of each student who is absent i 
from class the day before or after 
recess. This has been revised to 
read: all classes will be held at 
the scheduled hour on the day 
before and after Thanksgiving, 
Christmas, and Easter recess, and 
ell other holidays. Both faculty 
and students are expected to be 
present.
Corrigan Talks
To WCETC
Student Court
Anyone interested in holding a 
position on Student Court for next 
year, submit a letter with your 
qualifications and interest to the 
Executive Council Mail, Campus 
Mail, by 4:30 p.m. Friday, April 
27, 1962. The only requirements 
are that the applicant may not be 
a voting member of Student Con­
gress or hold a position on any 
other campus Court. He must also 
have attended Tech for at least 
three full semesters.
Evening Student Council
At the April 1, 1962 meeting of 
the Evening Student Council, 
these people were elected to 
office for 1962-63:
PRESIDENT: Fred Ackerman 
VICE PRESIDENT: Russell Orme 
TREASURER: Edwrad G. Kor-
chok
SECRETARY: James Ruffing 
Appointments:
PLAID EDITOR: John D. Shafer,
Jr.
PLAID CO-EDITOR: Shirley M. 
WRCT
WRCT is off the air for a work 
session and will resume broad­
casting immediately after Easter 
vacation.
Physics Help Session
The Carnegie Tech student sec­
tion of the American Institute of 
Physics will hold a help session 
for S-404 students this Wednesday 
night, April 11 in room 2122 En­
gineering Hall. The help session 
begins at 7:30 p.m.
Scotch ’n Soda
In planning ahead for next 
year’s production, the Board is 
looking for a show. Anyone who 
would like to have his show con­
sidered should begin writing as 
soon as possibie.
Those interested should notify
the Board of their intentions. Ma­
terial must be submitted before 
the end of the year.
New Staff 
Organizes 
Tartan
[continued from page 21 
Mark Appelbaum, Elaine Grumer, 
Colin Jones, Margie Park, Mary 
Ferguson, Henry Henderson, and 
B. J. Zimnewicz.
Marty Ackermann, „he new 
Editor-in-Chief, has worked on 
the paper for two years; first as a 
reporter, then News Editor, and 
finally as Associate Editor. 
Marty’s other activities include 
secretary of Sigma Nu Fraternity, 
Student congress, Delta Skull, In­
tramural Sports, and the Presi­
dent of the American Chemical 
Society.
Elaine Grumer, the Executive 
Editor, has been on the Tartan 
staff for three years, serving as a 
reporter, assistant News Editor, 
and News Editor. Her activities 
include the Society of Technical 
Writers and Publishers, Pi Delta 
Epsilon, and Hillel.
The new Managing Editor. 
Fritz Klinke has been the Tartan 
I,ay out Editor for the past year. 
He is also Printing Advisor for 
the Technical and a member of 
oigma N . i ntcrnity
Miron Straf, the new Business 
Editor was the Assistant Business 
for the past year. He is a mem­
ber of Theta Xi Fraternity.
This year the various staff edi­
tors were chosen on the basis of 
applications sumbitted to the for­
mer Editor, Sally Ganong Farrell. 
The applications stated the inter­
est and qualifications of those ap­
plying.
BY 0. E. SCHOEFFLER, mbMUIRm'b dueENfr DNapotfa
PRIDE OF THE OUTFIT: REGIMENTALSTRIPES.. . the resurgence noted by ESQUIRE 
last fall is gaining momentum for Regimental 
Stripes—the traditional colors of the historic # 
British regiments. With scores of these famed 
regiments—like the Grenadier Guards, the 
Royal Fusiliers, the Inskilling Dragoons—• 
there's quite a roll-call of striking color com­
binations in pure silk repps for your selection.
DRESS SHIRTS—SHOES—BELT.. . white Button Down Oxfords
are still very much de rigeur, and there are handsome variations in 
narrow tape stripes of blue, grey, olive. Also, although you ‘can’t 
go wrong’ with a white broadcloth tab collar dress shirt, why not ^ 
dress up with the newest pale tones of blue, olive or cream. With 
suits in Blue or Grey, wear BLACK SHOES or the VERY DARK­
EST BROWNS ... and RIB SOCKS are always smart and correct. 
Your DRESS BELT is LEATHER with an important harness-type 
buckle in polished metal.
I see where all 
banks are giving 
3’Eu interest 
on savings 
accounts 
now.
Yes, but only 
Union National 
Bank pays 
interest four 
times a year. 
Means you make 
more money on 
your account.
Stop at any office of The Union National 
Bank today and get all the details.
THE UNION NATIONAL BANK 
OF PITTSBURGH
«^CARN EGISCI TR U^^O FRAIIRH LY’uLYm «IOIATe FRAIIR r^ARN FJOo 
LbYs «^API2 EGISCI, vTneTSO 
YYaY FIGISRN EGISCI, ssSO FRAIIR TR iRN EGISCI, -ITGIA «Teet, DTH 
*TAISRCh y f^ggIe t w^$IA -CAAIee t .^AT^g^ee2, R$^ ^MMJdI2 
-AROpIGJeeI y .IOTANCA2R 1 7^STeO2^S82 .A^22A^TO2 y -IRNIe DTAn 
.IdJe y 5d7^STeO y vTnOTeI
B^C dTS PTSn $JRN C2 P! hTJe
ltK"> Syma »»¦>«'

---------------------------------------------------

Wednesday, April 11, 1962 — THE CARNEGIE TARTAN — Pagre S
’OPVRIOHT © 1961n THm ’O’AF’OLA ’OMPANv ’O’AF’OLA ANO ’OKm ARm RmCIbTmRmD TRADmMARK*¡33®$ '-¦iÿj-'x jjyaisrasssffiss y ' < j ^ ¿ -jj
Buddy Lee
YWCA Dedicates 
New Building
About a dozen members will 
represent the Campus YWCA at 
the annual meeting of the Pitts­
burgh YWCA to be held at the 
Hilton Hotel on April 25th. Kay 
Cassell, president, and Miss Clara 
Jane Douglas, chairman of the 
Advisory Board, Will sit at the 
Head Table for this important 
event, when new members are 
elected to the Board of Directors. 
A special feature of this evening 
will be the dedication of the con­
tents of the Cornerstone of the 
new building of the YWCA now 
being erected at Fourth and Wood 
Streets. Everyone present at the 
dinner wih inscribe their name 
on a special document which will 
be enclosed in the Cornerstone 
later.
The speaker for the occasion is 
Miss Lilace Rein Barnes, past
president of both the YWCA of 
the USA and of the World YWCA. 
The title of her address is “Foun­
dations and Towers.” She was
first elected President of the
World YWCA at its Council meet­
ing in Hangchow China in 1947 
and served till 1955, when she 
was elected president of the
YWCA of the USA. She is now 
serving on a number of import­
ant committees of the national 
YWCA. Any YWCA members or 
others on the Carnegie Tech cam­
pus who would like to attend the 
dinner must reserve their ticket 
before Easter vacation begins.
The Walt Harper Quintet and 
Buddy Lee Orchestra will play at 
Military Ball April 14. Walt Har­
per’s group will provide the mu­
sic for the faster numbers in the 
Wherrett Lounge while Buddy 
Lee’s orchestra will furnish melo­
dies for dancing in the main ball­
room of Skibo.
For the past three years Walt 
Harper’s group has played at many 
of Tech’s all-school events as well 
as fraternity parties. His most re­
cent engagements on campus have 
been Fall Homecoming and Greek 
Swing. In addition to sixty col­
lege engagements for the past year, 
he has played at many night clubs 
and had several television appear­
ances in the Pittsburgh area.
Besides Nat Harper, Jon Morris, 
Burt Logan, the group also fea­
tures Carl McVicer, a graduate of 
Carnegie Tech Class of 1960.
The Buddy Lee Orchestra also 
has had many college engagements. 
They have played many success­
ful repeat engagements at the fa­
mous Aragon Ballroom in Chicago. 
Pittsburghers are familiar with 
Buddy Lee’s Orchestra from West
Walt Harper
View Park Danceland where his 
group has made many appearances.
Military Ball will be from nine 
to one. Tickets are available to 
persons not in R.O.T.C. at the Mil­
itary Department Office.
For Shoes See . . .
W ALL Y'S
SHOE STORE
CAMPUS SHOES for MEN and WOMEN 
U. S. KEDS 
JARMAN and FLORSHEIM SHOES
3612 FORBES AVE. (Opposite Strand Theater)
Open Friday Night ’till 9 P.M.
EXCITING, PROFITABLE 
“CREDIT-ABLE” SUMMERS
TOURS - JOBS¦COURSES
No Charge tor Our Services
EVERYWHERE IN THE WORLD
PNtNtekiaIE IrtparutNfruc Tau
Call EX. 1-1040
,pc
YMCA Presents Film On 
Foreign Exchange Students
There will be a showing or the 
film “Unofficial Ambassadors” on 
Thursday, April 12 at 4:30 p.m. in 
Room 45 Skibo. This film, nar­
rated by Hollywood actor Fredric 
March, deals with the adjustment 
of overseas, students, to college 
life in North America. They are 
shown arriving at the pier, sta­
tion, airport, shown on the cam­
pus, in homes, working on sum-
mer jobs, touring the continent, 
experiencing democracy at work, 
and demonstrating colorful as­
pects of their own cultures in 
dxess, dance and music. It was 
produced by the Committee on 
Friendly Relations Among For­
eign Students, and the showing at 
Tech is sponsored by the Campus 
YMCA and YWCA. All are wel­
come though seating is limited to 
50 persons.
GREAT BETWEEN COURSES!
Get that refreshing new feeling with Coke!
QUAKER STATE OOCOA-COI.ABottled under authority of Th« Coca-Cola Company by bottling companyPittsburgh, P»,
Musicians Walt Harper, Bud Lee 
Perform For Military Ball
CRAM COURSE NO. 2: BIOLOGY
The grisly shadow of final exams looms over us, so today in 
this column instead of merry quips and homely saws, you will 
find hard facts—quick cram courses to help you through the 
ordeal ahead.
Last week I gave you a rapid survey of Modern European 
History. Now let us turn to Biology.
Biology is divided into several phyla, or classes. First is 
the protozoa, or one-celled animal. All life stems from the one- 
celled animal. Over a space of millions of years, life slowly 
evolved until today we have animals with as many as 12 cells. 
Some larger mammals claim they have 14 to 16 cells, but you 
know how larger mammals lie.
The second class of animals is the periphera—a shadowy 
category that borders often on the vegetable. Take, for example, 
the sponge. The sponge is definitely an animal. The washcloth, 
on the other hand, is definitely not.
Next wre come to the arthropoda, or insects. Most people* 
of course, find insects fairly repulsive—and yet, if one will but 
look, there is exquisite beauty in the insect world. Who does 
not remember the lovely insect poems of William Cullen 
Sigafoos—such enchanting lyrics as Tumbling Along with the 
Tumbling Tumblebug, Fly Gently, Sweet Aphid, and Gnats My 
Mother Taught Me. Mr. Sigafoos has been inactive since the 
invention of DDT.
Our next category is the moliusca—lobsters, shrimp, and 
the like. Lobsters are generally found under rocky projections 
on the ocean bottom. Shrimp are generally found in a circle 
around a small bowl containing cocktail sauce. Marlboro Cig­
arettes are generally found at any tobacco counter or vending 
machine.
What have Marlboro Cigarettes got to do with biology? 
Well, actually, not very much. It must be remembered, how­
ever, that the makers of Marlboro pay me for writing this 
column, and they are inclined to get surly if I fail to mention 
their product.
Mind you, I enjoy singing the praises of Marlboro—and 
so will you once you try that flavorful tobacco, that fine filter 
which lets the flavor come through undiminished. It is a great 
pleasure to smoke Marlboros and a great pleasure to write 
about them, but sometimes, I must confess, I find it a bit 
difficult to work the commercial into the column. Some years 
ago, for example, I did a piece about Alexander the Great, 
and, believe you me, it took a heap of stretching to drop in 
a plug for Marlboro. The way I finally managed it was to have 
Alexander go to the Oracle at Delphi and say, “Oracle, I have 
conquered the world and tasted all its pleasures, but somehow 
I am not content. I know' that somewhere there must t>e a 
joy I have not yet experienced.” To which the Oracle replied,
“Yes, Alexander, there is such a joy, but, alas, the time is not 
yet. I refer to Marlboro Cigarettes which will not be invented 
for another 25(H) years.” Whereupon Alexander fell into a sulk 
from which he never recovered . . . Well sir, there is no question
I sold a lot of cigarettes with this ingenious commercial, but 
the gang down at the American Academy of Arts and letters 
gave me a mighty good razzing, you may lie sure.
But I digress. Back to biology, and the most advanced 
phylum of all—the chordata, or vertebrates. There are two 
kinds of vertebrates—those wrhose backbones run horizontally 
and those whose backbones run vertically. Generally, there ¡a 
no great difficulty in distinguishing the two varieties. A fish, 
for instance, has a horizontal backbone, and a man has a vertical 
backlione. Occasionally, however, you run into a probleyi like 
a fish who swims upright and a man who spends most of his 
time in the sack. How, in such a case, do you tell one from 
another? Science struggled with this sticky question for cen-, 
turies, but finally Sigafoos of M.I.T. came up with a brilliantly 
simple answer. Offer the creature a Marll>oro. If it is a fish, it will 
refuse. If it is Homo sapiens, it will accept. In fact, the more 
sapient, the quicker the acceptance. c
* * *
17«« maker$ of Marlboro, upright vertebrate* all, remind 
you that their tins cigarette* are available in pack or box 
wherever cigarette« are sold in any ol the 50 nimte*.
On Campuswith MaxShuIman
rEopean aS CA fis i 'ttCgiTt chinSBk NThe liCy 
-awts aS cadFt ,F’’FsIk tpvLb

---------------------------------------------------

ìage * — THE CARNEGIE TARTAN — Wednesday; April 11. 1962
Editoriol
As a new group of students prepare to 
take over leadership of the TARTAN for 
the coming year, the question arises of “Why 
a student newspaper?”
This question is one the TARTAN staff 
will often consider during the course of 
the coming year as they attempt to create a 
student newspaper which will adequately 
fulfill its purpose — as they spend a long 
week collecting news culminated only to 
hear on Wednesday “Why didn’t my article 
get on the front page?”, “Why didn’t you 
print the article about ... ?”, and “Did you 
have to cut that particular sentence?”.
As this happens week after week, the staff 
may begin to wonder if their effort is use­
less — if the TARTAN is failing to serve the 
campus as a student newspaper. But, con­
sideration of these questions and complaints 
that arise every Wednesday afternoon (as 
well as the much appreciated compliments) 
brings a realization of how important the 
student newspaper is and can become.
The newspaper is most valuable as a 
means of communication, as a means of 
getting information from an individual or 
group to the entire campus population. When 
the TARTAN fails in this function a lecture 
or meeting may be poorly attended because 
the campus was not aware of it, and criticism 
is much deserved.
However, as a means of communication 
the Tartan can serve as much more than 
simply a schedule of notices and reviews of 
meetings, lectures, and special events. The 
TARTAN as a student newspaper should 
represent the students of Carnegie Tech, and 
one of the great advantages and attractions
of Carnegie Tech is the great variety of stu­
dents and student activity. This atmosphere 
should be reflected in the student newspaper.
If the TARTAN can, throught its various 
features and columns as well as through its 
reporting of campus news, communicate 
something of this atmosphere which is so 
special to Carnegie, then the newspaper 
serves an invaluable function as a newspaper 
of the students rather than simply for the 
students. To carry this further, it must 
therefore be by the students.
If students are interested in a paper which 
will serve the campus as an effective means 
of communication, they must be actively in­
terested. This active interest can be ex­
pressed in many ways from simply reading 
the campus newspaper to writing a weekly 
column or even a letter to the editor.
And when students are actively interested 
and express this if only through comments 
after reading the paper, the TARTAN staff 
cannot fail but hear some of these. And all 
comments, the critical and the favorable, are 
welcome and quite important, because it is 
only through these that the TARTAN staff 
can know that the paper is being read and 
the manner in which it is serving its function.
Thus, it is only when students are active­
ly interested in the campus newspaper that 
we can offer a reason for its existence. For, 
when the students are actively interested 
in the campus newspaper that we can offer 
a reason for its existence. For, when the 
students are actively interested and express 
this interest the paper becomes an important 
means of communication for the campus 
about the campus.
Reader's Write
Skibo Causes
CURTAIN GOING UP! Noisy Library
By Joey
The Enemy, Time
Any work by Tennessee Williams is always eagerly 
awaited, evenif it is onlv the screen version of one of his 
weakest plays: SWEET BIRD OF YOUTH. Richard Brooks, 
who adapted Williams’ work for the movies has managed 
to eliminate any bit of poetry and has replaced it with 
trite, melodramatic, and terribly gaudy action. The pathetic 
monologues of the two leading characters have been cut; 
flashbacks inserted. Geraldine Page has been forced to 
change the age of her Alexandra Del Lago; she is no longer 
old; merely aging and still quite beautiful. The horrifying 
castration which was hinted at in the play has been thrown out. 
Now Paul Newman’s Chance Wayne simply gets his face smashed 
in. Naturdally. Mr. Brooks manages to let us see the results of 
the beating, but, we think, all is not lost for Chance. He does get 
his girlfriend and she's rich enough to send him to a plastic suigean/
All is not lost, however. Geraldine Page, who once again proves 
herself to be one of America’s top actresses, gives one of the 
finest performances I have ever seen. Her scenes in bed cuddling 
and oxygen mask or smoking hashish; her drunken descent to the 
hotel cocktail lounge, or finally her surprise telephone conversation 
with (yes. Mr. Brooks has done it again) Walter Winchell, are all 
unforgettable. Madeleine Sherwood as Miss Lucy, a middle-aged 
courtesan, is also excellent. She is repeating the role she played 
on Broadway, as are Miss Page and Mister Newman. Unfortunate­
ly, the rest of the cast does not nearly measure up to these two 
women. Newman has had the film pulled out from under him. The 
flashback sequences iR which he is forced to make love to Heavenly 
in a lighthouse (while the orchestra plays EBB TIDE) aie utterly 
unbelievable. When they rush to meet each other h:e running down 
the spiral staircase: she up—the audiance is almost forced to 
laughter. However, his scenes with Miss Page make up for the 
others. They are as excellent as they were on stage. Ed Begley as a 
corrupt political boss gives the worst performance in the film. Sid­
ney Blackmer played Boss Finley in New York and I found his 
method of underplaying . . . everything ... is not only disturb­
ing. but often touches on the comic. Also in the cast are Shirley 
Knight as Finley’s not so virginal daughter Heavenly; Rip Thorn as 
his son Tom Junior and Mildred Dunnock as Aunt Nonnie who un­
fortunately must close the film by telling Finley to go to hell. She 
might have replaced Brooks’ name with Finley’s.
The sets switch from Del Lago’s hotel suite to Finley’s mansion 
to the beach to a lighthouse to the hotel cocktail lounge to Miss 
Lucy’s suite. They are fine, as are the costumes. I think it was a 
mistake to film the play in Technicolor, but, amazingly enough, this 
was done with extreme taste. The background music, except for a 
few horrendous moments, serves its purpose. On the stage, Paul 
Bowles’ music was an inte2ral part of the production.
Editor, The Tartan:
Re the editorial of 28 March 
commenting upon the excessive 
conversation occurring in the Roy 
and Rachel Hunt Library, it might 
be noted that due to the noise 
level provided by WRCT in Skibo 
the intelligent student finds it 
necessary to repair to said library 
to converse satisfactorily.
It is also worth noting that Ar­
chitecture, P&D, and Metallurgy 
students continue to patronize 
Skibo enthusiastically.
Name Withheld on Request.
The Carnegie TARTAN wel­
comes letters from readers pre­
senting their views and. news. 
All letters must be signed with 
the name and address of the 
writer, but a name may be with­
held at the writer's request. If 
possible, letters should be type­
written and should be as brief as 
possible. All letters are subject 
to condensation and editing. Let­
ters containing obvious misstate­
ments or lacking in good taste 
will not be printed. Letters must 
reach the TARTAN Office by 
2:00 p.m. Sunday to be included 
in the following Wednesday's 
paper.
BUY
A
THISTLE
APRIL 11-16
Looking Forward
A Western Victory 
In Algeria
By Allan J. Topol
The attempt to make peace in Algeria has been a long 
and, at times, seemingly impossible proposition. Yet a 
peace agreement is presently being reached to end the Al- 
gei ian conflict. This agreement may be regarded as a vic­
tory for the west.
In analyzing the Algerian settlement from the point of 
view of the west, there are two questions to be considered. 
First, what is the nature of this agreement, and can it be 
enforced? Second, how does the west benefit from such an 
agreement.
W hen General de Gaulle came to power in France, he pledged 
to end the Algerian war. The causes of the conflict were basically 
simple. France has held Algeria as a colonial territory since the 
middle of the nineteenth century. The Algerian rebels (FLN) were 
fighting for Algerian independence. They wer opposed by the 
French government and its army.
Yet Frenchmen both in Algeria and in France were split in 
their feeling toward the war. The Liberals desired peace and an end 
to the conflict. The Rightests, with some support from the army and 
European settlers in Algeria, desired to prevent Algerian indepen­
dence at all costs. Toward this latter end the OAS, a secret army 
terrorist organization, was formed. The killing in France were 
numerous as well as in Algeria.
On March 18, 1962 a cease fire was achieved between the 
French and Algerians. Since this time an agreement for Algerian 
independence has been negotiated. This agreement needs only the 
approval of the French people in a referendum in order to get into 
effect. From all indications the French people, long tired of this 
useless war, will approve the referendum^
The OAS is attempting to prevent enforcement of this agree- ^ 
ment. They rely upon the support of the large number of French 
settlers in Algeria who would like to remain under French rather 
than Moslem control. Yet the nature of the OAS terrorist tactics 
reveals the hopelessness of its effort. Last year, for example, in 
a raid on a clinic, ten Moslem patients were killed in their beds. As 
the New York Times commented, . . . this reveals the OAS bank­
ruptcy. **
Having looked at the nature of the agreement and the matter 
of its enforcement, let us turn now to four ways in which this 
agreement is beneficial to the west. First, the agreement severs the 
tie between a w'estern nation and a colonial people. It manifests a 
tacit assumption on the part of France that colonialism has had its 
day. It is the west which gains from every severing of colonialism. 
Only by abolishing this institution of the nineteenth century can 
western ideals be consistent with western actions in the eyes of 
the world. The western ideal is self-government. The western 
action cannot be the rule of one people over another..........................
Second, the self-determination of the Algerian people has 
triumphed. This self-determination is unquestionably a western 
ideal. This is not to say that independent Algeria will join the 
western block of nations. Yet a truly independent and self-deter-1| 
mined Algeria is all that the west can desire from a neutral nation 
in a cold war.
Third, terrorist tactics and military control have failed. Both 
of these are clearly non western ideas of government. Through 
General de Gaulle’s efforts civil order has triumphed in both France 
and Algeria.
Fourth, the strength of France has been asserted. The west is 
only as strong as its member nations. The Algerian conflict nearly 
resulted in French Civil War. Yet through the assertion of strong 
positive leadership by de Gaulle, France has not only weathered 
the storm, but has actually shown strength in enforcing this agree-* 
ment.
There ean be no doubt that de Gaulle is the man of the hour. 
His contribution of strong and forceful leadership, of knowing what 
is to be done and then doing it, will live on forever. De Gaulle is 
indeed the Abraham Lincoln of the French Republic.
»‘‘CARNEGIE
TARTAN
MPUSHOEH fSorfrNrH an rHMdSaWaJR
Offices: Skibo, Room 50, Forbes Avenue, Pittsburgh 13, Pa. Office 
phone, MU. 2-4557; Executive Editor, MU. 1-6550; Business Manager, 
MU. 1-2990 and MU. 2-9076; Advertising Manager, MU. 3-0460. Pub­
lished weekly during the school year except holidays and examination 
periods by the students of Carnegie Institute of Technology, Pgh. 13.
Second Class Postage Paid at Pittsburgh, Pa.
Represented for national advertising by National Advertising, Inc.
Annual Subscription Rate: $2.00 '
Editor-in-Chief..............................Sally Ganong Farrell
Executive Editor ............................. Allan Kullen
Associate Editor ............................Martin Ackermann
Business Manager ...............................................Phil Chau
Advertising Manager...........................................Phil Chau
News Editor .................................................Elaine Grumer
Features Editor ...............................................Jan Geisler
Sports Editor...................................................... John Blue
Layout Editor .................................................Fritz Klinke
Copy Editor....................................................Carol Hosken
Secretarial Editor......................................Pattie Michael
Circulation Editor .........................................Anne Moser
Photography Editor....................................Gerald Skalka
Assistant News Editor...............................Colin Jones

---------------------------------------------------

Wednesday. April 11, 1962 — THE CARNEGIE TARTAN — P*ff f
Ua333iaa39a9agBaSSâââ3S3Î2â9Ôâ3Bâââ333323S3^322j3:92S3Îâ3às333iâ49Î3339Q9ââiiâ
If I Were President . , .
MFEELIL Fu Psle -yc ogpLygLe
By Paul B. Farrell, Jr.
The rapid success of President Warner's development program 
in 1957 has been an inspiration for oar current program. We be­
lieve it is a realistic ten year goal. What is Carnegie University 
going to do with the funds from this $100,000,000.00 university 
development program? Undergraduate education deserves attention.
As Carnegie University sheds her old coat “Institute of Tech­
nology” and dons the new golden robes of a great university, certain 
fittings become apparent. Our ideal is attainable as we accept neces­
sary innovations in our responsibilities as a university leader of the 
twenty-first century.
Any university is an integral segment of an intangible triad— 
the university, the individual, and their society. A great university 
distinguishes itself by being a leader for other universities as well 
as for society and the individual. The degree to which these re­
sponsibilities are fulfilled and the degree to which university 
becomes a leader may be analyzed within an internal triad.
A great university has three internal responsibilities. Thèse are 
undergraduate education, graduate and professional education, and 
research and creative activities. We may well view this network, 
as a series of concentric rings with the outer-most extending the 
limits of human knowledge. Yet, we must never forget that every­
where individuals comprize these rings. First let us consider the 
inner ring or core—undergraduate education.
The undergraduate education at Carnegie university will under­
go significant modifications on two levels. First, it’s relationship 
to the university, and second in respect to the individual beginning 
his six to eight years of higher education.
At the University level we believe it is imperative to make a
separation between graduate and undergraduate education. There­
fore the division of humanities and social sciences will be reinforced 
and a College of Arts and Sciences will be created.
This college will be a degree granting college and directly re­
sponsible for the undergraduate education at Carnegie University.
At the university level we believe this college is essential to
the unity a university must have amid the diversities of an academic
community.
At present the division of humanities and social sciences is 
woven intermittently into the fabric of our existing professional 
schools, yet the educational responsibilities are split and thereby 
weakened. We know the leaders of the next century will require 
six to eight years of higher education and for this reason we must 
deliniate between the functions of undergraduate and graduate 
educations in a clearcut manner. The strange bedfellow of a forced 
four year “liberal profession ’ education will no longer exist.
The primary function of the college of arts and sciences will 
be to prepare students for one of the professional or graduate 
colleges, and thus for future responsibile citizenship. This will be 
accomplished through an intermingling of undergraduates regard­
less of future academic discipline. This unity of the student body 
will breed a common understanding of our rapidly growing world 
through their personal associations as well as in their classes.
At the individual level the distinction between graduate and 
undergraduate education will be less rigid than the distinction of a 
college of arts and sciences created at the university level. Indivi­
dually we all belong to one academic community.
While at least two years of residency will be required of all 
students in the college of arts and sciences and a four year degree 
will be granted to qualified students, a student may enter directly 
or gradually into a professional or graduate college after his sopho­
more year and at the end of his advanced study receive two degrees.
At this point I wish to emphasize that We believe that the 
quality of our university will be directly a result of the quality of 
students. The quality of the students is twofold, quality of intellect, 
and quality of a more intangible nature, call it maturity, commit­
ment, morality, or responsibility.
Any student who has twelve to fifteen thousand dollars and six 
years is not going to be admitted; nor is any student who has good 
grades, a high I.Q. or college board scores. We want the cream of 
the crop — and we intend to find this mature student.
Our standards of undergraduate admission and selectivity will 
be considerably raised. ' To insure the success of this method of 
achieving our goal as a great university, a sizable poi'tion of our 
development fund will be allocated to student recruiting.
In other words the future Carnegie University undergraduate 
will be a student willing to accept full responsibility for his educa­
tion. He will be a student who wants an education—not a form of 
job training. He will be a student who will continue to learn and 
think throughout life.
The College of Arts and Sciences will cultivate this new incom­
ing student. This college will educate the student with a knowl­
edge for his environment, a responsibility to his society, and an 
independence of mind and spirit, before he begins his professional 
or graduate education.
In a more abstract perspective, the College of Arts and Science 
will be the philosophical well spring for the graduate and profes­
sional colleges, and the research and creative activities of our 
academic community—Carnegie University,
(April 11, 1965)
laaaaflaaaBaBaaaqaaaaBaafiaaaflaaaaaBBBBaaaBaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaBaaBaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaai
Mandelbaum, 
Rusher Dehate 
UN Issues
An informal debate on the U. N. 
took place on Wednesday night 
between William Rusher, Pub­
lisher of tne “National Review," 
and Mr. Seymour Mandelbaum of 
the Tech history department.
Mr. Rusher opened the debate 
by describing the cold war as the 
central theme of world affairs 
after the second world war. He 
then related this to his central 
topic of how American policy in 
the U. N. will affect the cold war.
In 1960, twenty Afi'ican nations 
were admitted to the U. N. They 
help to constitute the neutral 
Africo-Asian bloc. Mr. Rushner 
feels that this neutral bloc con­
trols the balance of power in the 
U. N. He said this bloc is also 
opportunistic and indifferent to the 
issues between the two factions in­
volved in the Cold War. He felt 
that this would be detrimental in 
time of war; therefore, he wishes 
to depolitiealize the U. N. and 
use it only for technical purposes.
Mr. Mandelbaum rebutted by 
advocating stability of interna­
tional affairs. He felt that active 
participation by the Africo-Asian 
bloc in the U. N. would lead to 
this stability. He pointed out the 
active role this bloc had taken so 
far in the course of its existence. 
Mr. Mandelbaum felt that active 
Africo-Asian participation in the 
U. N. was not only a good way to 
achieve international stability but 
also a good way to avoid violence 
in the cold war.
Mr. Rusher closed the formal 
debate by replying to Mr. Mandel- 
baum’s comments. He again 
stressed the danger of the neutral 
bloc and warned that the free 
world was disarming itself.
After the debate there was a 
question and answer period.
The debate was presented by the 
Society of Conservative Studies, a 
new group on campus, interested 
in learning more about contem­
porary conservative thought.
NmaM fo 
COMING
Tech Automates With 
New Parking Gates
Electronic gates have recently 
been isntalled in the parking lots 
of Skibo, Fine Arts, and Forbes 
Hall. These have been erected to 
provide flexibility in control; 
that is, the guards no longer have 
to stay at the entrances of the 
lots as they formerly did, but can 
move wherever they are needed.
The latest gate to be installed 
is in the western end of the Skibo 
lot which is reserved for the 
faculty. Since the lot was not 
built with the gate control in 
mind, a chain has been put up to 
block entrance from the other end.
The operation cycle of the gate 
is activated by putting the em­
bossed “packard,” which resem­
bles a charge-a-plate, into the 
gate. An electronic device then 
raised the arm of the gate to let 
the car pass through. It auto­
matically lowers once the car is 
within the lot. When the car is 
ready for exit, the presence de­
tector will open the gate.
The “Lot Full” sign will light 
when the lot has reached full 
capacity. The counting system on 
the gate keeps a record of the
Robinowitz
Exhibits
The works of Robert Rabino- 
witz are currently being exhibited 
in the one-man show at the Hew­
lett Gallery, College of Fine Arts, 
Carnegie Intstitute of Technology.
Mr. Rabinowitz, a native of 
Philadelphia, is an assistant pro­
fessor of painting and design at 
Carnegie Tech. He received both 
his B.F.A. and M.F.A. degrees 
from Syracuse University. Ee has 
been at Carnegie Tech since 1956.
In the 1960-61 academic year, 
Mr. Rabinowitz was on leave of 
absence from Carnegie Tech. He 
spent mast of the year observing 
and painting in Italy and France 
and the current Hewlett Gallery 
exhibit is reflective of his Euro­
pean work. He has spent much 
time abroad, including trips to 
Mexico, England, Holland, and 
Spain.
The Hewlett Gallery is open to 
the public from 8:30 a.m. to 5:00 
p.m. on weekdays, and from 8:30 
a.m. to 12:00 noon on Saturday.
The show will continue until 
April 19.
number of cars using each lot s® 
that more parking permits can b# 
allocated. In fact, there are still 
several available permits at the 
pro-rated cost of $2, obtainable at 
Dr. Strick’s office in Skibo.
TV Broadcasts 
Debate Series 
Of Colleges
Several colleges, not including 
Tech, are competing in a series 
of debates being televised on 
Channel 11, Saturdays from 12:30 
to 1 p.m. The series, which be­
gan March 24 and continues 
through May 19, “combines real 
educational values with genuine 
enjoyment,” said Mr. Arthur 
Sherrill, president of the Amer­
ican Student Foundation.
The tournament includes six­
teen of the best college debate 
teams in the United States, sel­
ected by the American Forensic 
Association. The winner will be 
declared the national TV cham­
pion, and an outstanding British 
Isles team, yet to be selected.
The debates scheduled for the 
remaining weeks of the series are 
as follows:
April 14—Third quarter-final for 
the Southern Championship. 
Baylor vs North Texas State. 
Topic: “Gambling Should Be 
Legalized In All States.”
April 21—Fourth Quarter-final 
for the Eastern Championship. 
Fordham vs winner of George 
Washington-King’s College, to 
be debated March 24. Topic: 
“The Federal Government 
Should Subsidize The Perform­
ing Arts.”
April 28—Semi-final between 
West and Midwest. Topic: “Con­
gress Should Be Given The 
Power To Reserve Decisions Of 
The Supreme Court.”
May 5—Semi-final between West 
and Midwest. Topic: “T h e
United States Should Adopt A 
Program of Compulsory Health 
Insurance For All Citizens.” 
May 12—Final for national Cham­
pionship. Topic: “Labor Organi­
zations Should Be Under The 
Jurisdiction Of Anti-Trust Leg­
islation.”
SIC FLICS
“He has your ears, Bernie.”
’Europpoe
21 GREAT TOBACCOS MAKE 20 WONDERFUL SMOKES!AGED MILD. BLENDED MILD - NOT FILTERED MILD-THEY SATISFY

---------------------------------------------------

What’s the smart 
way for a cigarette 
to dress?
Do U.S. movies 
weaken our image 
abroad?
L&M gives you 
MORE BODY
in the blend, 
MORE FLAVOR
in the smoke, 
MORE TASTE
through the filter. 
It’s the rich-flavor 
leaf that does it!
’O P.mM01 e,Nu' I
HERE'S HOW MEN 
AND WOMEN AT 
56 COLLEGES VOTED.
%9£""%9fr........>Ped uos
%8 Z"'%ÎY
%zr-%zs'
%6Ta****%99lllllllllllllllan
N3WOM N3W
L&M’s the filter cigarette for people who really like to smoke.
Page ( — THE CARNEGIE TARTAN — Wednesday, April 11, 1#€2
This Week In Pittsburgh
WEDNESDAY, APRIL II
Carnegie Music Hall, 8:15 p.m., Pittsburgh Public Schools Spring 
Music Festival (Admission Charged)
THURSDAY, APRIL 12
C.I.T., Porter Hall 100, Film Arts Society presents ‘‘Mother” 
(1926)
Carnegie Music Hall, 8:15 p.m., The Academy of Arts and 
Sciences presents “The Story of Finland,” Karl Robinson 
Carnegie Lecture Hall, 7:00 p.m., Division of Education presents 
“Music Appreciation”
FRIDAY, APRIL 13
Syria Mosque, 8:40 p.m. Pittsburgh Symphony vinder William 
Steinberg, plays Beethoven and R. Strauss; guest pianist Rudolf 
Firkusny plays Dvorak G minor Piano Concerto.
Carnegie Music Hall, 8:30 p.m. Thiel College Choir (Admission 
Charged)
SATURDAY, APRIL 14
Carnegie Music Hall, 7:30 p.m. Society for the Presexvation and 
Encouragement of Barbershop Quartet Singing in America 
present “Night of Harmony” (Admission charged)
SUNDAY, APRIL 15
Syria Mosque, 3:10 p.m., Pittsburgh Symphony repeat of Friday 
Night Program.
Carnegie Music Hall, 8:30 p.m. Carnegie Institute of Technology 
Student Symphony Concert, Arthur Shaffer, voice and Patricia 
Prattis, piano are soloists.
TUESDAY, APRIL 17
Chatham College, 11:30 a.m., The Chapel, Dr. Surajil Sinha, 
Superintendent, Government of India Department of Anthro­
pology, Calcutta, and Visiting Fullbright Professor of Anthro­
pology from the University of Chicago 
University of Pittsburgh, 8:15 p.m., Stephen Foster Memorial 
Hall, Dr. Cecil Roth, professor of Jewish Studies in Oxford 
University, England.
CONTINUING EVENTS
Nixon — “West Side Story” (Movie)
Playhouse — “The Pied Piper of Hamelin” for information call 
MAvflower 1-4445.
Playhouse — “Three Penny Opera,” closes May 13; “Macbeth” 
closes April 15; “American Dream” and “Zoo Story” open 
April 21 2
Carnegie Tech Drama Department — “Summer of the Seven­
teenth Doll”
Festival Judges Chosen
Six prominent musicans have 
teen selected as judges for the 
second annual Carnegie Festival 
in music, drama, and dance, spon­
sored by the College of Fine Arts.
The judges, who will award tro­
phies, medals, certificates of merit, 
and cash scholarships in open 
classes, are Dr. Russell Hammar, 
chairman, music department, Kal­
amazoo College; Harold A. Decker, 
chairman, choral department, Uni­
versity of Illinois; Warren W.
Shelley, director of bands, South­
ern High School, Baltimore; Ar­
thur Loesser, head, piano depart­
ment. The Cleveland Institute of 
Music; James S. Ballinger, acting 
director, the conservatory of mu­
sic, Oberlin College; and William 
D. Revelii, conductor, The Uni­
versity of Michigan Bands.
Int*] Staff Band 
From London 
Holds ClinicThe International Staff Band 
from London, England, will pre­
sent a clinic and demonstration of 
brass techniques at Carnegie In­
stitute of Technology, Thursday,
April 12.
The clinic, sponsored by the de­
partment of music, will be given 
in the ballroom of Skibo, at 3:30 
p.m. Following the clinic, there 
will be a public reception and 
dinner beginning at 6:00 p.m. The 
special guest and speaker at the 
dinner will be Mr. J. K. S. Bam- 
ford, Her Britannic Majesty’s 
Consul.
The International Staff Band is 
conducted by Lieutenant Colonel 
Bernard Adams. The clinic will 
afford an opportunity to hear and 
appreciate the difference between 
the British brass band and an 
American brass choir, composed of 
students in Carnegie Tech’s de­
partment of music. The Carnegie 
Tech brass choir will be conduct­
ed by Mr. Philip Catelinet, as­
sistant professor of musics
The clinic is free and open to 
the public. Following the recep­
tion and dinner, the Staff Band 
will present a concert at the Wilk- 
insburg High School Auditorium 
beginning at 8:15 p.m.
! The Festival will feature over 
! 100 classes of competition and will 
include a special division for 
schools as well as sections for 
choirs, ensembles, percussion, dra­
ma, and dance. The remainder of 
the competition will be for solo 
instruments and voice.
The purpose of the two-day 
event, organized last year, is to 
foster artistic advancement 
through performance, evaluate 
performance, - and recognize and 
reward outstanding performance. 
Class sections will be held for all 
age groups.
Winners will be honored at the 
Carnegie Awai-ds Festival Con­
cert to be held Saturday, May 26, 
at 8:00 p.m. in the Carnegie Mu­
sic Hall.
Visiting Scientist 
Flügge Lectures 
April 16-20
Professor Siegfried /lugge of 
the Physikalisches Institut der 
Universität Freiburg will be a 
visiting lecturer at Tech Monday 
through Friday, April 16-20. Pro­
fessor Flügge will be here under 
the auspices of the American As­
sociation of Physics Teachers and 
the American Institute of Physics 
as part of a broad nationwide pro­
gram to simulate interest in 
physics.
In this program, the visiting 
scientist gives formal lectures, 
takes part in colloquia, meets in­
formally with the physics staff 
about teaching and research in 
his country, and often visits near­
by colleges and secondary schools 
to learn about the varied condi­
tions under which physics is 
taught in the United States.
Dr. Flugge’s fields of interest 
include theoretical physics and 
quantum mechanics. He has been 
a Senate member of the Univer­
sity of Marburg and Dean of the 
Philosophical Faculty at Marburg 
for several years.
Prospectives Tour
[continued from page 1] 
speaking to the parents, the 
Cwens and Scimitars will escort 
them to the dormitories. The first 
floor west wing of Donner Hall 
and certain rooms in Morewood 
will be open for this insepection. 
re: candidates day............................
At approximately 1:00 the stu­
dents will again assemble in the 
Ballroom, this time for lunch. 
They will be seated with mem­
bers of the faculty of their own 
departments. Speeches at this 
luncheon will be given by the 
president of Mortarboard, D^.r- 
thea Tsagaris, and by the presi­
dent of Omicron Delta Kappa, 
Pete Bouxsein. The luncheon will 
end about 2:30 p.m. At this time 
the visitors will be free to look 
around the campus or take a 
guided tour of the Hunt Library. 
The tour will begin in the base­
ment of the Library at 3:00 p.m.
It is hoped that all students on 
campus will also help, especially 
if some of the visitors seem lost 
or confused.
“I can’t decide which stand to take! Should I sympathize with Liz, 
the symbol of feminine desirability, whose perfection and inattain­
ability make happiness with any man impossible? Or should I feel 
sorry for Eddie, the young and ambitious singer, whose realization 
of an American Dream has shattered as he goes on dreaming, never 
again to find a reality the Truth that once was his?”

---------------------------------------------------

flick7' Out/
* TONITE AT THE' 5TRM1D )
OAKLAND
Now Showing
3 STOOGES 
MEET HERCULES
also
Underwater City
Starts Sunday
YUL BRYNNER
THE 
MAGNIFICENT 7
also
Facts of Life
MU. 3-6992
Wednesday, April 11, 1962 — THE CARNEGIE TARTAN — Page 7
Parshall Reappointed Officer 
With Danforth Foundation
April Issue of the Technical 
Features New Staff, Essay Contest
MOTOR COMPANY
jTEp AhpaNour Rfugn Dpuakfarn MNoENIur
CAMPUSHO EMA Hfo rNoAaSrn AMrP d Hfo WJRF d 
LIusleR- d JIu eyc Jgc pW mCJg.
uate Fellowships for 1962, accord­
ing to an announcement by Don­
ald Danforth, President of the 
Danforth Foundation, St. Louis, 
Missouri. A Danforth Fellowship 
provides four years of study in 
any U. S. graduate school in any 
field of study common to the un­
dergraduate curriculum. Annual 
stipends are $1500 for single men 
and $2000 (plus $500 per child) 
for married men, plus tuition and 
fees. These Danforth Fellows join 
478 others now in graduate study 
preparing to teach, and 181 more 
already teaching in 112 colleges in 
this country and in 20 institutions 
abroad. They were selected from 
1076 men nominated, by over 400 
colleges on the basis of not over 
three per institution. Qualifications 
include intellectual promise and 
character, a genuine interest in 
and commitment to religion, and 
high potential for effective college 
teaching.
Although no one from Carnegie 
Tech was nominated this year, 
there have been two CIT award 
winners in the past—Larry R. Tur­
ner, 1959 and Victor Hill, 1961.
In the April Carnegie Technical, 
the last of the year, the new staff 
presents an unusually large issue 
containing seven articles from 
many diversified fields.
The feature of the issue is the 
annual High School Essay con­
test. This year’s three winners 
were chosen from the largest 
number of entries in the contest’s 
history. The final judging of the 
entries was done by a board of 
Tech instructors.
The first prize award of $50 was 
won by Miss Arlene Wisniewski 
of Saint Thomas High School. Her 
article, “Chemical Warfare,” tells 
of the contest between the U.S. 
and Russia for supremacy in this 
field, and what discoveries they 
have made.
The second place article, worth 
$25, was written by Miss Regina 
Schuetz of Saint Wendelin High 
School. It deals with “Electronic 
Computers,” their workings, and 
uses. “Radio Isotopes,” the $10 
third place article of Donald 
Spear from Carrick High School, 
contains a history of the develop­
ments and discoveries in this field,
I and its possible uses.
1-1456. On electric typewriter, 
reasonable rates. Themes, Theses, 
Manuscripts, Term Papers, Ap­
plications, etc. Punctuation and
0 spelling errors corrected.
Nice two-bedroom (twin-beds)
apartment, large living room. 
Complete Kitchen and Bath,
Light and Airy. Nicely furnished. 
Study desks, etc. Best Squirrel 
Hill neighborhood. (Corner)
Parking no problem. $31.25 per 
month per student. Present post­
graduate student group here 
r. three years. For appointment tele­
phone JA. 1-2497 any afternoon 
after 2:00 p.m. or any evening.
It was recently announced by 
Dr. Warner that Dr. Raymond E. 
Parshall has been reappointed to 
serve as our Liason Officer with 
The Danforth Foundation.
The Danforth Foundation, one 
of the country’s ten largest private 
educational Foundations, was 
founded in 1927 by the late Wil­
liam H. Danforth, St. Louis busi­
nessman and philanthropist. The 
Foundation’s primary aim is to 
strengthen and enrich higher edu­
cation in America largely through 
a series of graduate fellowship 
programs to encourage better 
teaching.
_ The Danforth Graduate Fellow- 
ship program ranks after those of 
the National Science Foundation 
and other federal agencies, and 
the Woodrow Wilson National Fel­
lowship Foundation, ac one of the 
largest in the nation. It is unique 
in the length of time it supports 
Fellows, and in its stress on per­
sonal contacts with and between 
Fellows in study and after they 
begin teaching. Danforth Fellows 
may concurrently hold other 
@ awards such as Rhodes, Fulbright, 
National Science, or Woodrow 
Wilson.
The Danforth Graduate Fellow­
ship program was established in 
1951 with the hope that through 
financial aid, if needed, and a per­
sonal “relationship of encourage­
ment,” the Foundation could as­
sist roughly 500 men annually in 
becoming the most competent and 
highly motivated college teachers 
i* they have the capacity to become. 
To foster these aims, Danforth Fel­
lows attend three annual confer­
ences on teaching at Foundation 
expense. Leading scholars take 
part in lectures, seminars and in­
formal contacts with Fellows at 
the conferences, and meet with 
small groups at academic centers 
throughout the year.
Ninety-seven college men with 
remarkable promise as future 
^ teachers have won Danforth Grad-
CLASSIFIED
PROFESSIONAL TYPING — HA.
days of yore, men feared not only their 
mortal enemies, but the elements too. It was 
the medieval armorer's task to protect his 
chief against foemen, but weather-protection 
was a more difficult matter. Thus many a 
Knight was spent in rusty armor.
Engineers and scientists at Ford Motor 
Company, engaged in both pure and applied 
research, are coping even today with the 
problem of body protection (car bodies, that 
is). Through greater understanding of the 
chemistry of surfaces, they have developed 
new paint primers and undercoatings, new 
rustproofing methods, and special sealers 
guard entire car bodies against nature’s 
corrosive forces—all of which add armor-like 
protection to Ford-built cars.
From other scientific inquiries will undoubt­
edly come new materials with protective 
properties vastly superior to those of today. 
This is another example of Ford’s leadership 
through scientific research and engineering.
April Technical Cover
These three high school students 
will be honored by the Technical 
at the annual Technical banquet 
April 12 at Poli’s Restaurant in 
Squirrel Hill.
The awards will be presented 
by B. Richar * Teare, Jr., dean of 
the College of Engineering and 
Science at Carnegie Tech. Robert 
L. Lepper, professor of painting, 
design, and sculpture will be the
four articles by Tech Undergrad­
uates. Mike Gross contributes 
“The Renaissance in American 
Education,” which deals with the 
changes which have recently oc- 
cured in the educational system 
of th'- U.S., and how they have 
been affected by the Russian 
technological threat. “The Markov 
Chain Theory,” by Joseph Browne 
defines the theory and tells how it 
is used by various business and 
companies.
Norman Goldblatt’s article, “Ul­
trasonic Epectroscopy,” concerns a 
valuable new tool of molecular 
Physics and its uses. The final 
article, “Human Engineering — A 
New Technology” by Richard Ol- 
shavsky, explains this new sci­
ence’s goals and the steps neces­
sary to reach them.
The April issue of the Technic­
al will go on sale on Candidate’s 
Day, April 13, when it will be 
given to the prospective students 
visiting the campus as an example 
of what Tech students can pro- 
! duce.
main speaker at the banquet. 
Also included in this issue are

---------------------------------------------------

hotel
WEBSTER HALL
You’ll rate with your date...
For a meal or just 
a snack-put Hotel 
Webster Hall on your 
close-to-campus entertain­
ment schedule.
kotet Wafwte/o -Holt
4415 fifth APittibvrgh 13, I»«. 
*IeIgN^SIc 5E!Me^$tA Y ukkaa
PETE SEEGAR
Sings
April 16 - YMWHA
South Bellefield 
Seats $3.00. $2.50, $2.00. $1.50
Tickets at Carnegie Tech 
Book Store
Pag* S — THE CARNEGIE TARTAN — Wednesday. April 11. 1962
CAMPUS HEADQUARTERS for ARROW PRODUCTS
Nationally-known Clothing and Furnishings, featuring Ivy League Fashions
LEONARD'S MEN'S SHOP
CORNER FORBES and ATWOOD MU. 2-5209 OAKLAND
Tedi Announces High School
Science and Research Program
A year-long program of science 
education and research participa­
tion for high school students and 
teachers has been announced by 
Carnegie Tech.
The program, slated to begin in 
June, has two phases and is sup­
ported by grants of over $65,000 
from the National Science Foun­
dation. It has as its major aims 
the acceleration of motivation of 
exceptionally-able high school 
students towards professional ca­
reers in pure and applied science, 
and the developing in a group of 
high school science teachers un­
derstanding the ways in which 
our knowledge of physical science 
is advancing.
Ultimately, the major goal of 
the program is to improve the 
quality of science education in the 
high schools in which the partici­
pants teach or attend.
In the first phase, beginning in 
June, eighteen exceptionally-able 
students from all over the United 
States, and fourteen high school 
teachers will come to Tech for a 
summer long program of science 
education based mainly on re­
search participation. The teachers 
and students will work on re­
search projects currently under­
way at Tech. They will work 
along with graduate and under­
graduate students, under the sup­
ervision of senior faculty mem­
bers.
The eighteen students will be 
selected from applicants from 
across the country. The program 
will be conducted in the depart­
ments of chemical, civil, electrical, 
mechanical, and metallurgical en­
gineering.
The teacher’s program will be 
conducted in the departments of 
chemical engineering, chemistry, 
civil engineering, electrical en­
gineering, metallurgical engineer­
ing. The participants will work in 
regular research projects in 
groups with regular faculty, grad­
uate students, undergraduate stu­
dents, and able high school stu­
dents. There will be almost 20 
such projects, including the fluid 
dynamics of blood flow, disloca­
tion motions and reactions, stu­
dies of the electrochemical re­
moval of metals, and the thermal 
conductivity of inorganic melts.
The students selected will re­
ceive full tuition, plus subsist­
ence and travel allowances,- while 
the teachers will receive full tui­
tion, plus $600 stipend and $120 
stipend per dependent, plus travel 
allowance. The teachers w'ill also 
be given eight semester hours of 
graduate credit.
The secorid phase of the pro­
gram, which will begin in Sep­
tember and continue for thirty- 
two weeks, will see high school 
students and teachers from the 
Western Pennsylvania area come
to Tech every Saturday for ad- 
vanced-course and laboratory pro­
grams.
The participating departments 
include civil and electrical engin­
eering and physics. The 15 teach­
ers and 42 students will be 6n 
campus from 8:30 a.m. to 4:20 p.m. 
each Saturday and will devote al­
most two hours of that time to the 
digital computer center. The rest 
of the program includes lectures, 
discussions, classroom work, and 
research in specific departments. 
Senior staff members will be as­
signed to guidance and instruc­
tion in both the pure science and 
applied science areas.
According to Edward R. Schatz, 
Dean of Research at Carnegie 
Tech, “This program is designed 
to supplement rather than sup­
plant the normal high school in­
structional activities. It is expect­
ed, however, that the work in 
this program, particularly that of 
the teachers, will have real im­
pact on the future teaching and 
laboratory activities in the high 
school science courses in the par­
ticipating high schools.”
There has been much discussion 
recently about the confusion be­
tween engineering and/or science 
careers and also about the de­
crease in engineering graduates. 
Perhaps programs like these may 
prove helpful in finding solutions 
for both these problems by clari­
fying the activities involved in 
engineering and in science, and 
by strengthening high school sci­
ence preparation courses.
GIU refreshes your taste 
—"air-softens" every puff
tZc/s f a refreshing discovery is yours
every time you smoke a Salem cigarette...for Salem refreshes your taste just as 
Springtime refreshes you. Most refreshing, most flavorful, too...that’s Salem!
• menthol fresh • rich tobacco taste • modern filter, too
Created by R. i. Reynolds Tobacco Company
-ARROW-
From the
“Cum Laude Collection"
Arrow
ßa/vt-lovt. "PAR
tEp huas Tfa
ofhBcptp ofhTfat
, *5.95
No matter what you do you’ll look 
your best and feel your best wearing 
an Arrow Ban-LON “Par.** 
It gives you the action of a knit 
combined with a bright array 
of colors and a soft absorbent hand.
Completely washable.
Short sleeves

---------------------------------------------------

Wednesday. April 11, 1962 — THE CARNEGIE TARTAN — Page §
Institute Displays M. D. May’s 
German Expressionist Painting
Ninety-five German Expression­
ist paintings from the collection 
of Mr. and Mrs. Morton D. May 
of St. Louis, Missouri, are cur­
rently on display in Galleries E, 
F, G, and H, second floor of the 
Fine Arts building and will con­
tinue through May 6. This is the 
largest individually-owned col­
lection of German Expressionist 
paintings in the world.
This remarkable aggregation of 
some of the most powerful paint­
ings of our century dates from 
1905 to 1950 during the critical 
years of World Wars I and II. 
The collection includes works by 
the major artists living in Dres­
den, Munich and Berlin who 
were secessionists from the art 
academies.
Among the “Die Brucke” group 
active in Dresden whose paintings 
are represented in thé exhibition 
are Erich Heckel, Ernst Ludwig 
Kirchner, Otto Mueller, Emil 
Nolde, Max Pechstein and Karl 
Schmidt-Rottluff. Another seces­
sionist group drew expatriates 
from Switzerland, Russia, Poland 
and Austria. Wassily Kandinsky, 
Franz Marc, Heinrich Campen- 
donk, August Macke and a few 
others formed “Der Blaue Reiter” 
which took its name from the 
title of a book which Kandinsky 
and Marc* were about to pub­
lish.
Two penetration portraits, bold 
in color, included in the exhibi­
tion are by the individuals, Oskar 
Kokoschka — whose name is syn­
onymous with German Expres­
sionism.
The largest group of pictures 
in the exhibition is the work of 
Max Beckmann. This is an un­
rivalled opportunity to see forty- 
nine works by this Master Ex­
pressionist. Political persecution 
drove Beckmann to the United 
States. From 1947 to 1949 he 
taught at Washington University 
in St. Louis, where he formed a 
personal friendship with Morton 
D. May. In the summer of 1949 
Beckmann taught at the Univer­
sity of Colorado. Beckmann was 
included in seven Internationals 
and in 1929 received Honorable 
Mention. In 1949 his “Fisherwo- 
men” received First Prize in that 
year’s “Painting in the United 
States” exhibit. This will be on 
view, together with a number of
others which hsve been shown at 
arnegie Tech.
The German Expressionist 
paintings may be seen during the 
following hours: Monday through 
Saturdays, 10 a.m. to 5 p.m. and 
on Sundays, 2 to 5 p.m. The ex­
hibition is open to the public 
free of charge and has been made 
possible through Kaufmann’s De­
partment Store.
Scotch Vi Soda Offers New Stage 
To Replace Old In Skibo Ballroom
SCF Gives Annual 
Easter Service
The Student Christian Federa­
tion will present the anual Easter 
Worship Service 11:30 Tuesday, 
April 17 in Fine Arts Theatre. 
Two Tech students, Larry Grush 
and Richard Cartwright, will give 
the Word of Witness. Richard will 
speak on “The Experience of the 
Resurrection as Related to the 
People in the First Century” and 
Larry will consider the meaning 
of that experience today.
A voluntary offering will be 
taken and donated to World Uni­
versity Service, a Campus Chest 
agency. SCF feels that although 
everyone at the assembly may 
not wish to contribute, the oppor­
tunity should be given to those 
who wish to express their com­
mitment in this manner.
The order of the service is 
adapted from the liturgy of the 
United Church of South India. 
This denomination resulted from 
the merger of the former mission­
ary movements of Presbyterian, 
Anglican, Reformed and Methodist 
churches. It is felt that the unity 
expressed in this service, will help 
to symbolize the unity of the Tech 
Christian community.
Architects Ed Jacobson and Carl Piekarski look over blue-prints for 
the stage they have designed for S ’n S. The portable stage will be a 
permanent part of the Skibo Ballroom facilities.
Scotch ’n Soda Will Make 
Some Profit on uViv” Budget
Above Business Manager R. J. 
Levison’s desk is a sign that is 
contrary to S ’n S’s tradition of 
recent years. It reads: “Scotch ’n 
Soda will make a profit this year!” 
This he has vowed, along with 
every member of the Board and 
every committee head.
To do this, Levison has set up 
tight control systems, and has 
predetermined every possible cost. 
It is these projected costs, plus a 
high safety margin, that comprise 
the 1962 budget. This margin 
Levison guarantees will provide 
the difference.
This determination is admirable
! in itself, but all the more re- 
* markable in consideration of the 
following: The S ’n S Club is 
aware, as never before, that 
Scotch ’n Soda is intended as a 
’campus show—for the students 
and friends of Carnegie Tech 
This has meant both a lower 
tighter budget, and a more lim­
ited seating capacity. The. an­
ticipated total capacity of the 19S2 
show will be only about half o; 
what it was in the gym in 1960, 
and the years before.
Shows have been scheduled for 
the evenings of May 6, 7, 8, and 
9—Monday through Thursday—-
The plan proposed by the Board 
j of Scotch ’n Soda for a new stage 
for Skibo Ballroom has been ac- 
j cepted. The stamp of approval 
I from the school administration 
1 came last wek.
In search for a new home, 
j Scotch ’n Soda had asked senior 
architects Ed Jacobson and Carl 
Piekarski to submit a design. The 
idea they conceived is a portable, 
utilized stage that could serve for 
general use in place of inade­
quate present one. While it will 
be used primarily by Scotch ’n 
Soda, it will be a permanent part 
of the Skibo Activities Center, as 
it will also serve for concerts, 
skits, and many other uses
Jacobson and Piekarski have 
employed the idea of a series of 
! pre-fabricated boxes with lids. 
These will measure 27 inches high. 
The boxes can be butted together 
I to vary the stage area, or piled 
to change the level. Thus, the 
stage can be adapted to any de­
sign or use.
This week the construction task 
will be contracted to an outside 
company. The production time 
will be about three weks, leaving 
Scotch ’n Soda about two weeks 
in which to rehearse on stage.
The stage for S ’n S as planned 
by the two architects, will be set 
against the long screen below the
ballroom. The theater will then 
face the screen. The stage will be 
about thirty feet square, with four 
levels that will descend from the 
top of the screen.
! at a ticket price of two dollars. 
In addition, there will be a mati­
nee on one of the days, at a re- 
1 duced price.
Students!
Earn $120 per week 
doing research work in
EUROPE
Fof information and applica­
tion send $2.00 to:
Perael Research Institute 
Box No. 299 
Cathedral Station 
New York 25, New York
HOW
UM AND SUN DAYS
AT VOUR CHEVROLET DEALERS
(where you'll find the 
nicest ways to get away!)
You won’t find a vacation- 
brightening variety like this any­
where else. And now that spring 
has sprung, the buys are just as 
tempting as the weather. Your 
choice of 11 new-size Chevy II 
models. Fourteen spacious, 
spirited Jet-smooth Chevrolets. 
And a nifty, nimble crew of 
rear-engine Corvairs. Three 
complete lines of cars—and we 
mean complete—to cover just 
about any kind of going you 
could have in mind. And all 
under one roof, too! You just 
won’t find better pickings in size, 
sizzle and savings anywhere 
under the sun. And you couldn’t 
pick a better time than new­
el uring your Chev­
rolet dealer’s Fun WBBw 
and Sun Days. Wm m
NEW BEL AIR 4-DOOR STATION WAGON
Jet-smoothie that rides just right, loaded or light— 
with 97.5-cu.-ft. cargo cave and Full Coil suspension.
CORVAIR MONZA 4-DOOR SEDAN
From snappy interiors to sure-footed scat, this one's 
got the gift of making sport of most any trip.
Junior Year 
in
New York
An unusual one-year 
college program.
Writ* for 
brochure to:
I Junior Yeor
! New York University j New York 3, N. Y.
See the new Chevrolet, Chevy II and Corvair at your Chevrolet dealer's One-Stop Shopping Center
NEW CHEVY II NOVA STATION WAGON
Here's a wagon that sells at a compact 
¦price, yet totes in a big way with a longer 
load floor than any compact-—over 9 ft. 
with second seat and tailgate down.

---------------------------------------------------

Page 10 — THE CARNEGIE TARTAN — Wednesday, April 11, 1962
ASME Student Groups 
Confer At WVU
The American Society of Me­
chanical Engineers, Region Five, 
student sections conference was 
held at the University of West 
Virginia in Morgantown on Fri­
day, April 6, and Saturday, April 
7, 1962. Dr. Neil Johnson, the 
faculty advisor and 5 students, 
Ralph W. Debusmann, chairman, 
Bill Anderson, treasurer, Pete 
Kost, Frank Horison, and Dick 
Aaron represented Carnegie Tech 
at that meeting which was at­
tended by about 90 students from 
17 other schools in the region. Dr. 
Walton Forstall, Section Five stu­
dent section committee chairman, 
was chairman of the meeting at 
West Virginia University.
The convention sessions were 
held at the impressive hilltop Ev- 
ansdale Campus which opened 
last September. At the opening 
meeting Frank Morrison present­
ed the paper which was based on 
his current research project “Some
, Aspects of Metal Cutting-.” That 
afternoon the group visited two 
| industries in the Morgantown 
area. The Seneca Glass Co. dis­
played the manufacture of hand 
blown crystal. The Sterling Fau- 
: cet Co. showed its manufacturing 
' facilities to the group. Friday 
| evening was highlighted by the 
annual business meeting of Sec­
tion Five-ASME.
At the Saturday morning session 
aditional student papers were pre­
sented. After that the convention 
toured the labs and classrooms 
i of the new twelve story Engineer- 
i ing Science Building.
During the convention, the 
Tech delegates had the opportun- 
i ity to listen to reports of twelve 
projects conducted at district 
schools, to see the new facilities 
of WVU’s engineering building, 
and to meet with mechanical en­
gineering students and faculty of 
other schools.
Nuclear Plant Developments 
Shown in Skibo Exhibits
Army progress in the develop­
ment of various nuclear power 
plants for military use will be 
shown in an exhibit to be held in 
Skibo, on the Carnegie Institute 
of Technology campus, April 11 
and 12.
The colorful exhibit depicts five 
varied nuclear power plant con­
cepts in various stages of devel­
opment. Among the concepts fea­
tured Is the SM-1 reactor which 
has been in operation at Fort Bel- 
voir. Va., since 1957. This plant, 
which wTas designed primarily for 
use in training personrel in the 
operation and maintenance of nu­
clear power equipment, has sup­
plied Fort Belvoir with electrical 
power since its completion.
Stressing the military applica­
tions of nuclear power plants — 
ranging from mixed installations 
capable of operating three years
on one nuclear loading to a high- 
| ly mobile sea-going barge cap- 
I able of providing emergency pow­
er to almost any port in the 
| world—the exhibit features other 
; variations of the Fort Belvoir 
plant. Included are an air-trans- 
' portable low-power reactor, a 
truck-mounted gas-cooled reactor, 
and a modular unit designed to 
generate heat and electricity for j 
remote installations.
The exhibit emphasizes the uni- j 
que capability of nuclcar power 
plants to reduce the consumption ' 
of vital oil supplies, fuel trahs- j 
port and handling, and tl * need j 
for overseas fuel storage. It is j 
I shown, for example, that one j 
j pound of uranium measuring one 
and one half cubic inches contains ; 
! the energy equivalent of 2,125,000 
pounds of coal, 60,000 barrels of 
' oil.
Matthews of UAW 
Discusses Unions, 
‘Progress - Sharing’
Mr. Norman Matthews, vice 
president, United Auto Workers, 
and director of the union’s Na­
tional Chrysler and American 
Motors Departments, addressed 
the participants of Carnegie 
Tech’s Program For Executives at 
a dinner meeting, Tuesday, April 
3, at the University Club.
Mr. Matthews, who has headed 
many of the union’s top bargain­
ing teams since 1944, spoke to the 
group on the effective employ­
ment of unions and also discussed 
the implications of the recent in­
novation in management-labor 
relations embodied in the “Pro­
gress-Sharing” agreement nego­
tiated by his union and American 
Motors.
Born in England, Mr. Mat­
thews came to this country in 
1920. Before becoming a full-time 
union official, he worked at the 
Packard Motor Company.
He is the second in a series of 
five prominent executives who 
lectured to the group. Other 
speakers scheduled are Mr. Ker- 
mit Gordon, member, Council of 
Economic Advisors; Mr. William 
Gossett, vice president and direc­
tor, Ford Motor Company; and 
Mr. Logan Johnson, president, 
Armco Steel Company.
The Program For Executives, 
sponsored by the Graduate School 
of Industrial Administration at 
Carnegie Tech, annually draws 
young promising executives from 
many areas of the world for its 
nine-week program. This year, the 
twenty-eight participants come 
from fourteen states,
Visiting Committees c 
On Campus April 9
Four of Carnegie Institute of 
Technology’s recently established 
Visiting Committees will hold 
their first campus meeting Mon­
day, April 9.
Each committee will spend the 
entire day on the Carnegie Tech 
campus in sessions with the fac­
ulty members and head of the 
department concerned. The four 
which will be on campus Mon­
day are, the Visiting Committee 
for the department of chemical 
engineering; the Visiting Com­
mittee for the department of 
electrical engineering; the Visit­
ing Committee for the department 
of mechanical engineering; and 
the Visiting Committee for the de­
partment of metallurgical en­
gineering.
The Visiting Committee pro­
gram, established in September, 
1961, has two major aims: to 
bring national figures in close re-
BOB HOPE, LUCILLE BALLDOG FOOD
2V2 cases (60 cans) ALPOFor Sale
MU. 2-958«
lationship with the activities of 
all departments and divisions of 
Carnegie Tech; and to secure the 
aid of these committees, their 
counsel and fresh viewpoints, in 
achieving the objectives of Cai$ 
negie.
Chairmen Of the committees to 
be on campus are: for chemical 
engineering, John E. Swearingen, 
president, Standard Oil Company 
of Indiana, Chicago; for metal­
lurgical engineering, Logan T. 
Johnston, president, Armco Steel 
Corporation, Middletown, Ohio; 
for electrical engineering, Morris 
Nielsen, president, Babcock & 
Wilcox Company, New York Cit 
and for mechanical engineering, 
Edwin R. Broden, president, SKF 
Industries Incorporated, Philadel­
phia. All of the chairmen are 
members of Carnegie Tech’s board 
of trustees and Mr. Broden and 
Mr. Swearingen are Tech alumni.
S. GREEN
All Watches Electronically Timed
EXPERT WATCH AND 
JEWELRY REPAIRS 
123 Oakland Ave. MU 1-6109
MARK FIVARS
AND HIS ORCHESTRA
Subtle Sounds for 
Swingin' People
JA 1-8384
Clevile's GRADUATE ENGINEERING 
PROGRAM leads to excellent 
assignments in...
Two approaches to the 
“man’s deodorant” problem
If a man doesn’t mind shaving under his arms, he will probably 
find a Woman’s roll-on satisfactory. Most men, however, find it 
simpler and surer to use Mennen Spray Deodorant. Mennen Spray 
was made to get through to the skin, where perspiration starts. 
And made to work all day. More men use Mennen Spray than any 
other deodorant. How about you? 64* and $1.00 plus tax
MWH.frH rUPSoforaU
200 Smith St. Waltham 54, Mass.
An Equal Opportunity Employer
• Component Engineering
• Process Control Engineering
• Quality Control and Reliability
• Instrumentation and Customer 
Application
As one of the world’s leading suppliers of the fabulous 
semiconductor devices so vital to the age of automatic 
computers and space flights, Clevite is offering to prop­
erly qualified graduate engineers, unique, varied and 
gratifying career opportunities in research and develop­
ment.
To qualified engineers who elect to join the Clevite 
Transistor team, the firm offer's a variety of in-plant 
training courses leading to key posts in research, de­
velopment, application and sales.
If your interest is in Physics, Electronic Engineering, 
Chemical Engineering, Metallurgy or Mechanical En­
gineering, and you would like to explore a career 
opportunity with Clevite, please write to W. E. Cun­
ningham, Engineering Placement Director, and in­
clude your official grade transcript. All inquiries will 
be promptly acknowledged.
------ON CAMPUS INTERVIEWS-------1
Our representative will be on campus 
April 11. Your placement office 
.will provide the details

---------------------------------------------------

Wednesday, April 11, 1962 — THE CARNEGIE TARTAN — Pa*« 11
Tech Track Team Wins First Meet; 
Shows Promise Of Future Firsts
The Tartan track squad opened 
the season on Saturday with an 
impressive 76-55 victory oi’er the 
Jeannette Harriers, taking nine 
iirst places out of fifteen events. 
Probably just as important as the 
nine firsts was the depth the 
team exhibited, garnering eight 
_ second places and nine thirds. 
This depth is extremely important 
to a team that is to be successful, 
for it relieves some of the pres­
sure on the front line performers.
Last year’s veterans gave a good 
account of themselves, contribut­
ing a large amount of points to 
the Tech cause. Junior sprinter 
Dennis Gary exhibited excellent 
early season form, winning the 100 
and 220 with little trouble. Andy 
t Niedra ran away from the field in 
¦ the 880, although his time was a 
few seconds off the CIT record. 
Niedra is expected to break the 
eight year old mark in the very 
near future. WPC cross-eountry 
champion ^Viike Campbell was giv­
en a good fight in the two-mile 
by Jeannette’s Herb Layman, but 
pulled away in the last laps to 
take a first. Jim Sharkey, one of 
the few seniors on the team, tied 
. for first in the high jump with
* Jeannette’s Zuraw, both jumpers 
clearing the bar at 5’10”. Tom Ter- 
pack showed signs of getting into 
shape with a win in the 440, beat­
ing out freshman teammate Ben 
Pontano.
A number of freshmen began 
their careers at Tech -^ith sterling 
performances. Rick Rogers dis­
played perfect form in the 220 
low-hurdles as he picked up his
* first victory in a Tech uniform. 
® Bob Diskin, former Pittsburgh
Central Catholic star, easily won 
the broad jump to fill the vacancy 
created by the graduation of Lar­
ry Schmidt. Tony Williams gave 
promise for the future with his 
second place in the pole-vault, go­
ing 11’6”.
Ben Pontano joined the trio of 
Niedra, Gary, and Terpack to 
bring Tech a 200-yard victory in 
I the mile relay. This mile relay 
tam should provide some happy 
moments during the season, being 
one of the better outfits in the 
area.
Amid the general joy of the 
victory was one note of bad news. 
Dave Grebos, Tarton pole-vaulter, 
injured his ankle while competing 
in the event. It is hoped that Gre­
bos will be back in good physical 
shape before the season ends.
I Tech meets St. Francis today at 
3:30 at Tech field, and is expected 
to run away with an easy victory. 
Saturday, the team travels to 
Waynesburg for the first away 
meet of the year. To round out the 
pre-vacation schedule, W&J visits 
the Tartans at 3:30 this coming 
Tuesday. Admission to the home 
meets is free, and fans are invited 
to observe the team in action.
One Mile — 1. Laymon (J), 2.
, Fackler (CIT), 3. Barvick (CIT). 
Time—4:44.8.
440—1. Terpack (CIT), 2. Pon­
tano (CIT), 3. Brueggman (J). 
Time—54.3.
Umoc
Is
Coming
100—1. Gary (CIT), 2. Sholoda
(J), 3. O’Connor (J). Time—10.5.
120 H. Hurdles—I. Hunter (J),
2. Thomas (CIT), 3. McClean
(CIT). Time—17.9.
880—I. Niedra (CIT), 2. Roll-
man (CIT), 3. Ditmar (CIT). 
Time—2:02.2.
220—1. Gary (CIT), 2. Sholoda 
(J), 3. Werronen (CIT) and
O’Connor (J). Time 23.2.
220 L. Hurdles—1. Rogers (CIT), 
2. Hunter (J), 3. Thomas (CIT). 
Time—28.0.
Two Miles—1. Campbell (CIT), 
2. Layman (J), 3. Fackler <CIT). 
Time—10:21.
Mile Relay—1. CIT (Terpack, 
Niedra, Pontano, Garv). Time— 
3:38.4.
Shot Put—1. Krinock (J), 2. Bo- 
rofsky (CIT), 3. Nyce (J). 42’ 6”.
Javelin 1. Nyce (J), 2. Borofsky 
(CIT), 3. Hamilton (CIT) 169' 4”.
Discus—1. Nyce (J), 2. Werro­
nen (CIT), 3. Taylor (J) 129’ 4”.
High Jump—1. Sharkey (CIT) 
and Zuraw (J), 3. Diskin (CIT) 
5’ 10’.
Pole Vault—1. Zuraw (J), 2. 
Wiliams (CIT), 3. Grebos (CIT) 
and Bell (J). 12’ 0”.
Broad Jump—1. Diskin (CIT), 
2. R. Thomas (J), 3. Brueggman 
(J). 20’ 8”.
1C Organizes 
Cricket Team
The International Club is again 
organizing a cricket team, an­
nounced team captain, Ken Mills. 
Last year matches were held with 
Westinghouse, the Commonwealth 
Club ir Washington, the Cricket 
Club of Toronto, and the G. E. 
team in Philadelphia, with a rec­
ord of 4 wins, 4 loses, and 1 draw.
The schedule this year will in­
clude all of the above teams plus 
an additional weekend match in 
Baltimore. Also under negotia­
tion is a match in New York with 
the Staten Island Cricket Club.
Dr. Mills would like all those 
interested in playing cricket to 
contact either himself (at CIT ex­
tension 467) or Prof. Glyn Mey- 
rick (ext. 366) for information on 
where and when practices wil be 
held.
WUfrH naU
rPUrPS
Spring IM Sports 
Capture Campus's 
Spiffy Interest.
j The C.I.T. intramural field once 
j again comes alive as enthusiastic 
softball teams prepare to vie for 
the much-coveted softball cham­
pionship of spring 1962. The teams 
promise to bring to Tech campus 
a thrill-packed season, as frater­
nity teams, utilizing the fine tal­
ent of the many newly-recruited 
members, have demonstrated in 
practice sessions skill and team­
work which make for competent 
ball clubs.
It is expected that attendance 
at these stimulating contests will 
reach an unprecedented high this 
season, as campus interest in I.M. 
sports has shown aa obvious up­
ward ti'end throughout the past 
school year.
The I.M. golf contests will prove 
also to provide worth-while enter­
tainment for anxious spectators. A 
number of hopeful contestants 
have already sacrificed the early 
morning pre-class hours to visit 
Schenley Golf Course, and will 
provide keen competition to insure 
a fine I.M. golf season.
Girl watchers ere honorable men
@a Who may watch
•at»
Any male is eligible to become a girl watcher. There is 
Th age limit, although most girl watchers are over ten 
and under one hundred and four. There are no height or 
weight requirements, although taller men enjoy an obvi­
ous advantage at crowded parties. The only strict require­
ment is one of character. The girl watcher is a man of
WHY BE AN AMATEUR?
JOIN THE AMERICAN SOCIETY 
OF GIRL WATCHERS NOW I
FREE membership CARO. Visit the editorial office of 
this publication for a free membership card in the world’s 
only society devoted to discreet, but relentless, girl watch­
ing. Constitution of the society on reverse side of card.
This ad based hi the book, “The Girl Watcher’s Guide.” Text: Copyright by Donald J, Sauers. Drawings*. Copyright by Eldon Dedini. Reprinted by permission of Harper & Brothers.
m mMh *4m
honor. Since he can’t possibly, take notes, as the bird 
watcher does, we must rely on his word. Therefore, when 
an experienced girl watcher tells you he saw nine beau­
tiful girls while on his way to class, he saw nine beautiful 
girls. And when he tells you his Pall Mall is the cigarette 
of the century, believe him. It is.
P-EE m-EE’e y-lus-E mpEcyLee pe eF IFFc lF yFus l-elL!
So smooth, so satisfying, 
so downright smokeable!

---------------------------------------------------

Paff* 12 — THE CARNEGIE TARTAN — Wednesday. A|wil lirm*
Swim Team Votes Vandersolm MVP, 
Elects Brunson Captain of 62-63 Team.
V I'f. v Mr[c o ___^............ n
Tech’s high point men, Tom Vandersalm and Steve Strassen, ready to challange another pool record.
by Ken Kantrowitz
At the annual Carnegie Tech 
swimming team banquet on April 
1, Tom Vandersalm, Tech’s out­
standing four year letterman and 
record holder, unanimously was 
voted the Most Valuable Player 
for the 1961-62 season by his 
teammates. Junior letterman. Tom 
Brunson was unanimously elected 
the captain of the 1962-63 team. 
Brunson, despite his ineligibility 
during the first semester of the 
season, came on to help the team 
greatly the second semester in the 
freestyle sprints and the back­
stroke events.
The loss of five senior letter- 
men. all of whom have been reg­
ulars on the team for four years, 
will be felt severely. These men, 
Co-captains Tom Vandersalm and 
Steve Strasen, Ken Kantrowitz, 
Joe Oldfield, and Ira Rubin scor­
ed over 60% of the total points 
scored by the team this season. 
Vandersalm, a consistant winner 
and Tech record holder in the 220 
and 440 freestyle, this season 
captured 12 firsts, 9 seconds and 
in addition to being Tech's high
point man in the Penn-Ohio meet 
swam in two winning relays. He 
ends his brilliant career with 372 
points, second highest total in the 
school’s history. Strasen, a three 
year letterman, has been a con­
sistant winner in the 200 yd. 
breast stroke and has done well in 
the 200 individual medley and in 
several other events. He is a mem­
ber of the 400 yd. medley relay 
team which owns the school re­
cord.
Kantrowitz swam the butterfly 
and an occasional freestyle event 
for Tech for four years. As Tech’s 
sole butterflyer, he consistently 
placed first or second this year 
and finished fourth in the Penn- 
Ohio meet. Oldfield, a three year 
letterman has been the regular 
Tech diver for four years. He has 
captured many first places and 
finished second in the Penn-Ohio 
meet last season and fifth this 
season. Rubin, predominantly a 
freestyler for four years in the 
relays, the 220 and 440, filled a big 
hole in the backstroke events for 
part of this season. He was a 
member of most of the winning
400 yd. freestyle and medley re- 
I lay teams this year.
Several key swimmers will be 
needed for next year’s team to 
replace the seniors and to im­
prove upon the 3 win, 8 loss re­
cord of this season. Freshmen
will be needed badly to fill the 
vacant positions in many of the 
events. Upperclassmen with any 
swimming or diving ability are 
urged to practice now and to 
come out for the team next fall. 
The team has a strong potential 
nucleus, but needs strengthening 
to regain the high ranking it held 
among the small colleges of the 
district a few years ago.
This season’s scoring:
Name Points
*Tom /andersalm .............101.00
*Steve Strasen ...................... 72.50
*Ken Kantrowitz .................. 53.75
*Ron Kowach ........................ 40.75
*Tom Brunson ...................... 32.50
*Joe Oldfield .......................... 30.00
*Tom Snow ............................ 26.25
*Tyler Burt.............................. 22.50
*Len Lester .......................... 20.50
*Ira Rubin .............................. 18.50
Tom McLaughlin ............... 13.00
Bob Wachtel ........................ 10.25
Hank May .............................. 6.00
Steve Portnoy ................. 4.50
Alex Speyer ............. 4.00
*LETTERMEN
Final Season's Results:
Date Team CIT Opp.
Dec. 9—Grove City (A) 18 75
Dec. 16—W.&J. (Hi 28 66
Jan. 6—Westminster <H> 39 56
Jan. 14—Western Reserve 66 28
Jan. 17—Grove City (Hi T 23 72
Feb. 9—Kent State (A) 29 64
Feb. 10—Fenn (A) 49 46
Feb. 17—Westminster (A) 46 48
Feb. 20—Slippery Rock (A) 31 64
Feb. 27—Allegheny (Ht 41 54
Mar. 3—PENN-OHIO meet (Hi
Fifth
Mar. 10—Case (H) 57 37
<H>—Home Meets (At—Away Meets 
DUAL MEETS RECORD: 3 Wins, 8 Losses
CT Wins HISTEP < 
Tech First In 
India - Pakistan
Carnegie Tech is unusually ac­
tive in the India-Pakistan area. 
More employees of the Indian 
steel industry have been trained 
at Tech than any other American!* 
school. In cooperation with the 
U.S. government, Carnegie Tech 
has begun the Hindustan Steel 
Training Project, HISTEP, under 
which seven Americans will be in 
India for two years setting up 
personnel-training programs in 
Indian steel mills. The Americans 
will be advisors in steel plant 
traffic planning and control, ancr* 
plant-wide mechanical and elec­
trical maintenance.
Significantly, although Ger­
many, Britain, and Russia also 
trained Indian engineers, and 
even built steel plants in India— 
which the U.S. has not done — 
the Indians asked only the Amer­
icans to set up this project. Re­
cently, the members of Kappa 
charter of Alpha Phi Omega spent 'I 
about one-hundred man-hours re­
producing magnetic tapes to be 
used for HISTEP. The tapes con­
sist of six fifteen-hour courses in 
basic Hindi to be used by the 
Carnegie Tech advisors and their 
families who are being sent to 
India by Carnegie Tech under 
contract with the U.S. state de­
partment.
I TONY'S BARBER SHOP
£ SPECIALIZING IN ALL KINDS OF HAIItCUTS
| NO yAITINC mXPmRT BARBmRb
? 18ft Bonqcet St. (Near Corner Ferbe» and Bonqaet)X New Honrs: 8 A.M. to S P.M. Daily MU. 2-996»
Ì
VITALIS® KEEPS YOUR HAIR HEAT ALL DAY WITHOUT GREASE!
Caputpet gNeof,paS eNrop tEp ofhk. VNtucNe 'NtE VF7®n tEp 
Iapuepcpee IaffhNrI gNeof,paSl KppBe Sfia EuNa rput ucc guS 
'NtEfit IapuepFurg Bap,prte gaSrpeen tffl TaS VNtucNe tfguSl
A Question to 1962 Engineering and Science Graduates:
Do you 
want to earn 
your living
while continuing to learn?
If your answer is yes (and you didn’t 
talk with GE when we were on camp- 
). this message is addressed to you.
At The Knolls Atomic Power Labora­
tory, select opportunities are now open 
to hard-hitting engineering and science 
graduates who can qualify for one of 
the following work-study regimes:
KAPL-RPI PROGRAM
Openings for engineering and physics 
graduates. A 2\'z to 3-year work-study 
Master’s Degree Program conducted in 
conjunction with Rensselaer Polytechnic 
Institute. Offers Master’s degree in 
field of choice—minor in Nuclear 
Engineering.
ADVANCED REACTOR 
ENGINEERING PROGRAM
Openings for holders of Master’s degree 
or equivalent in graduate study and/or 
work experience. A 2-year program 
consisting of rotating work assign­
ments, couplied with applied educa­
tional courses. Provides opportunity to 
learn reactor and power plant analysis 
and design through study and exper­ience.
PROJECT TRAINING 
ASSIGNMENTS
Openings for engineering and science 
graduates with BS or MS, interested in 
intriguing opportunities to participate 
in fast-paced teamwork, along with 
eminent engineers and scientists who 
help produce nuclear propulsion for 
surface and submersible naval vessels. 
Virtually every engineering and scien­
tific discipline is represented in KAPL 
work.
Selections of candidates is now in progress. For further 
details, write I including your name I to Mr. G. L. Smallwood
/CxoStOs AtniuG, ¿.aJtyuzZoiy
aPHUPrHD naU P. H. M.
GENERAL ELECTRIC
U.S. Citizenship Required
Schenectady, New York
An Equal Opportunity Employer
\
