JUNIOR PROM 
NOW
SECOND TICKET SALE
THREE WEEKS 
UNTIL 
PINAL EXAMS
VOL. XXII No. 14CARNEGIE INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY, PITTSBURGH, PA.TUESDAY, JANUARY 3, 1928
CARNEGIE WOMEN 
UNITE FORCES FOR 
SCHOLARSHPFUND
All Women’s Organizations 
On Campus Have Combined 
to Promote General Welfare
STUDENT COUNCIL 
TO FINANCE PLAY
Show in Downtown Theater 
to Help Raise Women’s 
Scholarship Fund
The Women’s Scholarship Commit­
tee budget has been signed by the 
various organizations supporting the 
new body. The budget was voted 
upon by all the women’s organiza­
tions on the campus the week prior 
to the Christmas holidays. This 
means that it has the backing of the 
Student Council and will become a 
permanent campus body.
A temporary committee, composed 
of all the presidents of all the wom­
en’s groups on the campus was 
formed last spring just before the 
end of the semester. Due to the 
proach of the final examinations there 
was insufficient time to accomplish 
any real work so a chairman and a 
committee to meet in the fall was 
selected. The chairman chosen was 
Marjory Snodgrass. This new body 
met early in the fall and since then 
has worked diligently on a budget and 
some plan for raising money. Here­
tofore the various women’s groups 
have been forced to give a number 
of miscellaneous teas and bridges to 
raise the money for their individual 
scholarships.. -The new body plans to 
raise this money. Under the new sys­
tem their efforts will be united and 
all the scholarship funds will be 
raised by one large benefit affair at 
a theater performance at one of the 
downtown theaters some time in Feb­
ruary. The Alvin is under considera­
tion. The committee which is trying 
to get a contract is composed of Sally 
Hiilick, Painting and Decorating, ’28, 
chairman; Jean Springer, P. and D., 
$ '28, and Betty Marshall, House Eco­
nomics, ’29.
The project was brought before the 
Student Council December 6 and pre­
sented by Miss Snodgrass. The back­
ing of the Council is necessary to 
carry the project through, for a guar­
antee of $3,000 must be given the day 
of the performance and the Student 
Council is the only body which can 
make the whole thing possible by 
giving the guarantee.
After a thorough discussion, Coun­
cil decided to take over the organiza­
tion. the same as any other organiza­
tion on the campus until iris able to 
support itself financially. The re­
sponsibility for any debts _ incurred 
will be met by the council, said debts 
to be paid later by the organization.
At the last meeting of the commit­
tee it was moved that it: First, pay 
all unpaid scholarships of this year 
and the first semester of next year. 
Second, to use any surplus on a work­
ing fund. Third, that any organiza­
tion that has joined the committee 
and fails to participate to its full 
share, that organization shall be pen­
alized by the representatives of the 
other organizations on the committee.
This is the first attempt at any sys­
tem of the kind on the campus and 
it is hoped that it will be a successful 
(Continued on Page Four.)
APPOINT COMMITTEES FOR
COMMENCEMENT ACTIVITIES
Thoughts of June are in the air, 
in spite of . the weather. The senior 
commencement committees have been 
appointed and the class of '2S is be­
ginning to look forward to .that day in 
June when they will bid good-bye to 
Carnegie.
Those appointed to the committee 
on invitations and programs are: 
Robert Follansbee and Edwin Ross 
from Science, Walter B. Rogers and 
Paul Schell from Arts. The commit­
tee from Industries and Margaret 
Morrison has not been appointed as 
yet.
It is the . duty of the committee to 
select the style of the commencement 
invitations which will be sent out by 
the Senior class, and also to make up 
the programs which will be used on 
Commencement Day.
One Thousand Dollar 
Campus Scene Section 
Will Feature Thistle
Yearbook Has Snapshot Sec­
tion, Silhouette Bands, 3 
Color Title Pages
PROPOSAL RECEIVED TO 
RECORD CARNEGIE SONGS
The ‘Men’s Glee Club, through its 
manager, Mr. Wilbur Scott, has been 
consulted by Mr. Louis Bauer, a rep­
resentative of the New York Phono­
graph Company in regard to making a 
record of the musical renderings of 
that organization.
This company is soliciting all col­
leges and universities in an effort .to 
get the recording of glee and college 
songs. Their proposition, which is 
very good, but at the same time cost­
ly, can hardly be accepted at this 
time by the club, as finances are very 
much restricted this year.
It the managers had been able to 
book a series of concerts for the re­
mainder of the season thereby reim­
bursing the budget, this recording 
idea would prove a very good adver­
tisement for Carnegie.
The Men’s Glee Club, by reason of 
its very credible showing at the gen­
eral assembly, has proved that its 
work is well worth recording. This 
year’s club is improved over the one 
that represented Carnegie last year. 
Although the tenor section remains a 
little weak, it seems almost impossi­
ble to resurrect students who have an 
unusually high range. This fact will 
no doubt prove a handicap in the in- 
(Continued on Page Two.)
The Thistle of 192S is nearing com­
pletion. It is being featured by an 
eight-page oil-painting replica view 
section of the campus. This is being 
put in at a cost of one thousand dol­
lars. Not only is that a new step in 
the direction of a super Thistle. It 
will include a complete section of 
snapshots of campus scenes and ac­
tivities; last year’s campus week 
sweepstakes, carnival, parades, plebe 
funeral, corner traffic jams and 
others.
The Thistle will be a black-blue 
covered book. On opening the book, 
the first scene is a campus view in 
olive green. The first section is the 
wonderful oil painting replicas of 
campus scenes. These are done in 
the original colors of the paintings. 
Each section is ^introduced by a three- 
color title page. This is a vast im­
provement over former Thistles. Each 
sub-section is introduced by a two- 
cclor sub-title page. Uniformity is 
the policy of this year’s book and on 
following the title pages closely it 
shows a striking beauty. Across every 
page in the Thistle a silhouette band 
forms a background. All background 
work on each page will be done in 
olive green.
The senior section is not changed 
very greatly. The pictures will be 
placed in a vertical position, eight on 
a page. The background is olive 
green without any insignia. The main 
step in the departure from customs of 
former Thistles is the lack of tradi­
tional Thistles and Scotchmen.
This is a brief survey of this year’s 
Thistle. It is nearing completion rap­
idly and will be ready for the printer 
in a short time. The sale of Thistles 
(Continued on Page Two.)
Industries Seniors Will 
Hold Party This Month
The Industries Senior Class at its 
last meeting decided to hold a party 
before the end of the first semester. 
With last year’s party as an example 
the seniors are attempting to estab­
lish a yearly senior party as a prece­
dent or customary tradition.
A committee of three men was ap­
pointed by the president to look after 
the details of the affair. R. F. Wood- 
house, Sigma Alhpa Epsilon was 
named chairman with George Davis, 
Alpha Tau Omega, and Walter Wei- 
mer, Sigma Nu, as his committeemen.
The probable date of the affair will 
be January 28, 1928. Arrangements 
are being ipade by' the committe for 
the place. They are trying to secure 
the Lincoln Club on Craft avenue for 
that evening. Tickets will be put on 
sale the first week in January and as 
as decision to hold the party was al­
most unanimous a large number of 
them is expected to be sold.
Last year’s party which was held 
at the Sigma Nu house was a big suc­
cess but plans are being made to 
make this year’s party even better.
HONORARY OFFICERS AT
R. O. T. C. HONORARY LUNCH
What Price College! Hickman Reveals 
Ambition For Education in Confession
Because he wanted money to go to 
college, \yilliam Edward Hickman 
committed one of the most brutal 
crimes ever recorded. This atrocity 
recalls a similar crime where two col­
lege bred youths were the perpetra­
tors. They, however, had been sur­
feited with the knowledge that this 
apathetic youth was hoping to attain.
But, was Hickman sincere when he 
made his statement?
This can only be aligned with the 
other parts of his confession, which 
revealed an unusually elastic imagin­
ation. This youth knew full well that 
college is one of the accepted tradi­
tional virtues of our civilization. To 
justify his brutality, then, he attempt­
ed to mollify his crime by assuming 
that this virtue was for him.
His plan, if we are to believe him, 
was to get enough money, and then 
go to college where he would live by 
the dogma of the reformed under 
world, i. e., he would go straight. It 
is hard to say what might have hap­
pened had Hickman’s plans not been 
frustrated.
College, for a person like him, 
would have been nothing more than 
an elaborate criminal training school. 
He would undoubtedly have perverted
every morsel of knowledge into his 
own abnormal interpretation. His 
forte, had he lived centuries ago, 
would have been as an aid to the 
scholarly Borgias. Their crimes are 
the super atrocities of history, and 
Hickman is a close competitor. So 
that Hickman, without his higher edu­
cation, can not be blamed on that 
score.
Hickman, Leopold and Loeb all be­
long to the same strata of abnormal 
crime.
Four years ago human, interest was 
focused on a crime in Chicago. Two 
college students were the protagonists 
in the horrible murder of a small 
boy. After an exploitation of their 
life history for a clue without avail, 
it. suddenly occurred to some one that 
perhaps these students had read 
books in college which did not alto­
gether conform with the written code 
of rectitude. Schopenliaur, Nietzsche, 
Goethe, Kant and a legion of other 
philosophers and writers were indict­
ed for having polluted the minds of 
these two youths in Chicago.
Had Leopold and Loeb never at­
tended the University of Chieftgo, they 
still would have been able to delineate 
(Continued on Page Three)
INTERFRATERNITY FORMAL 
TO BE HELD AT SCHENLEY
Enrollment of Active Members To 
Govern Distribution of 
Admission Tickets.
The Inter-fraternity formal com­
mittee met before the holidays and be­
gan to plan for this major social 
event. Among the items discussed 
were those of the location, date, ap­
portionment of tickets and decora­
tions.
The dance will be held In the 
•Schenley ballroom and will be, as the 
name and custom indicate, strictly 
formal. The ballroom will be- unusu­
ally well decorated and all the neces­
sary plans are being made to make 
this event one of the most colorful 
social events 011 the campus.
Special attention is called to the 
change In the date of the Inter-frater­
nity Formal. Due to the fact that the 
upper class Architects are scheduled 
for charette for the week of March 
twenty-third, the affair will be moved 
up one full week and will be held 
March sixteenth.
There will be a change, too, in the 
apportioning of tickets for this year’s 
Formal. This year the tickets will be 
allotted to each fraternity according 
to the number of active members en­
rolled. This method will relieve the 
responsibility from one member of 
the committee and enable the distri­
bution to be made more fairly and effi­
ciently.
The orchestra for the dance has not 
been decided upon, but there Is no 
reason to believe that it will be below 
the excellent standard set by the fra­
ternity organization. The members of 
the committee who are working to 
make this year’s Formal the most suc­
cessful in fraternity history are: C.
P. Hamilton, chairman of the Sigma 
Alpha Epsilon: Jerry Siebert, Sigma j 
Nu; H. H. Hunter, Kappa Sigma; T.
C. Pratt, Delta Upsilon; G. L. Dunn, 
Sigma Phi Epsilon, and Joe Difiley, 
Delta Tau Delta.___________________ i
JUNIOR PROM AT PITTS­
BURGH COUNTRY CLUB
Members of Prom Committee 
Have Second Tickets On 
Sale Now, $3.00
The men’s Junior Prom for 1928 
will be held at the Pittsburgh Coun­
try Club on Friday evening, January
27. The second ticket sales are now 
on and all students are requested to 
purchase their second tickets,.at once.
Leon Hartman, a member of the 
Junior Prom committee had thcr task 
of selecting a hall for this annual af: 
fair. Through the*, courtesy and kind-, 
nesii of Mr. Lanahan, IlaVtman was 
able ‘to hire the ballroom of the Pitts­
burgh Country Club for the Prom. 
The 1928 Junior Prom will bo the first 
affair that has ever been hold at the 
Country Club by an outside party. 
The club is located on Beechwood 
boulevard and Is not as far from 
school as previous Proms have been.
The second ticket sale is now on 
under the supervision ol’ "Spook” 
Seibert. These tickets may be pur­
chased from any member of the Prom 
committee or of a sub-committee. 
The price of the second tickets are $3. 
The first tickets should bo turned in 
when buying the second, as the sec­
ond tickets represent a total of $5 
Continued on Page Two.)
WILL PUBLISH CARNEGIE 
MARCH IN SHEET FORM
J. M. Frolick To Speak At 
A. I. E. E. Meeting Jan. 11
On December 15, the Thursday be­
fore the Christmas recess, the Scab­
bard and Blade held a luncheon at 
the Carnegie Inn. The luncheon was 
attended by all members of Scabbard 
and Blade and all the pledges. The 
honorary officers, Jean Roy, Jeanette 
Fulmer, Alice Bright, Dorothy Roy, 
Alice Hardy, Mildred Young, and 
Jean Matter were the guests of the 
occasion.
President Stout presented Major 
Taylor with a desk set, of a desk pad, 
pen and accessories.
Mr. J. M. Frolick is to speak at the 
next meeting of the A. I. E. E. of Car­
negie, January eleventh. This meet­
ing will fall on the second Wednesday 
instead of the first due to the holiday 
recess. Mr. J. M. Frolick will speak 
on “Radio Interference from Central 
Station Viewpoint.” He is noted all 
over for his work done in that’ field 
with the connection of Duquesne 
Light Company.
This meeting is open to the public 
of Pittsburgh. It will be advertised 
i’.i the Pittsburgh newspapers. Also 
notices will appear on the campus bul­
letin boards regarding the time and 
place. -The general policy of the A.
I. E. E. is to have at every meeting 
a noted man from a large industrial 
concern, also to have short talks 
given by the students themselves. The 
meetings will be featured by movies 
pertaining to industrial concerns and 
methods of operation. As the first of 
such meetings under the new policy 
of the organization, it is very fortun­
ate for them to obtain such a man of 
note and experience as Mr. J. M. Fro­
lick.
Meetings are held the first Wednes­
day of each month. Great effort is 
being expended by the committee to 
obtain as good speakers as possible.
(Continued on Page Two)
SEVERAL COPIES OF LAST
YEAR’S THISTLE AVAILABLE
Financial matters occupied the cen­
ter of interest at the last Student 
Council meeting before Christmas va­
cation. Mr. Crandall started things 
off with the treasurer's monthly state­
ment of accounts which he explained 
briefly. A partial budget . for the 
Men’s Junior Prom was presented and 
approved. The committee ' is having 
difficulty finding a hall for the date 
set, January 27, so the council ad­
vised that a. complete report be made 
on possible halls and dates and pre­
sented to the council, with the idea 
of changing the date if it is absolute­
ly necessary. A budget for the thea­
ter benefit to be given by the Wom­
en’s Scholarship committee in Febru­
ary was also approved.
Mr. Finn reported that he had ob­
tained an account of last year’s 
breakage fees from Mr. Orbin, and 
turned over this account to the Stu­
dent Souncil. Mr. MacMillion read 
some of the bids he had received for 
publishing Wilbur Scott’s new Car­
negie song in sheet form, recommend­
ing that of Otto Zimmerman and Son. 
His recommendation was approved.
A letter from Allen Nern, business 
manager of the 1925-26 Thistle, asked 
that the council distribute certain 
profits left over from the 1925-26 
Thistlo, according to the Thistle con­
stitution, among the three staff mem­
bers for that year. But these profits 
resulted from the efforts of the coun­
cil which took over the collection of 
j the old Thistle bills and paid the de­
ficit for that year, while the Thistle 
staff did practically nothing toward 
making up their deficit, much less to­
ward making any profit, by collecting 
bills due them. The council there­
fore felt Lliat the money should go to 
the organization which exerted all the 
I effort in collecting it and voted that 
it revert to the Student Council. 
Council expressed itself as being in 
favor of having the Mid-Western Stu­
dent Government Conference at Car­
negie next year,.if possible..
After checking over the list of or­
ders and sales, the circulation staff 
of the Thistle Board of 1927 has found 
that there are about fifteen last year’s 
Thistles which are available to pur­
chasers. No doubt there are many 
who did not buy Thistles last year 
who would like to do so. This will be 
the last opportunity to' get a 1927 
Thistle as this announcement should 
dispose of every copy left.
The Thistles will be on sale at the 
publication office in Room 12, Indus­
tries during the noon hour every 
school day and also on Friday after­
noons. The price will be $4.50.
97 Enrolled in Even­
ing Printing Classes 
At Carnegie This Year
Forty-Nine of Pittsburgh’s 
Printing; Plants Have 
Members Enrolled
Forty-nine different firms engaged 
in the printing industry in the Pitts­
burgh district are represented among 
the 97 students enrolled in the even­
ing courses in printing at the Car­
negie Institute • of Technology tills 
year, according to a report issued by 
Dr. David Gustafson, United Typothe- 
tae professor and head of the Printing 
department. Twenty-two other em­
ployers who are not specifically en­
gaged in branches of printing are also 
represented among this year’s group 
of night printing studonts.
An indication of the wide represen- 
tation of employers in this year's 
group Is shown In the report that only 
eight of the 49 printing plants have 
more than one each of their, employes 
represented. One has four represen­
tatives; and two have three each en­
rolled in the courses in either hand 
composition, machine composition, 
press work, layout and design and 
other evening courses in printing.
The 97 students taking night 
courses, it Is also reported, range 
from “printers’ devils” to foremen. 
Many of them are advertising men 
who are taking courses in practical 
printing work, and many of them are 
printers who desire to specialize In 
either typography, composition, and 
press work.,
Enlarged floor spaco made neces­
sary by the Installation of now equip­
ment sent hore by the United Ty- 
pothotae of America as a result of the 
recent merger of the U. T. A. School 
at Indianapolis with the Carnegie In­
stitute of Technology, has made it 
possible, It Is announced, to receive 
larger classes In all branches of the 
printing Instruction.
Alter January 2, Professor Gustaf­
son has announced, all of the courses 
in printing are re-opened to new stu­
dents. The second term Is scheduled 
to begin on January 10.
Science Juniors Elect
Wile Senate Treasurer
At a re-vote held Tuesday, Decem­
ber 13, George M. Wile was elected 
treasurer of the Science Senate, by 
the Junior class of the College of En­
gineering. On the first ballot cast no 
one received a majority of votes, 
which is necessary to place a man in 
office, so a re-vote had to be held for 
the highest two men on the ballot.
George Wile, who was chosen by the 
Junior cclass to fill this important po­
sition, is a junior in the Civil Engi­
neering department, a member of the 
Sigma Nu fraternity, and a member 
of the Glee Club. He made his nu­
merals in tennis, and is a contender 
for the varsity team.
Besides being treasurer of the 
Science Senate, Mr. Wile will also be 
the junior representative of the Col' 
lege of' Engineering in the Student 
Council. In this position he will act 
as one of the assistant treasurers of 
the Student Council, along with the 
junior representatives from the other 
colleges. During the following year 
he will act as a senior representative. 
The treasurer of the Student Council 
is elected from the four assistant 
treasurers at their last meeting at the 
end of a school year.
DOCTOR BAKER VISITOR AT
CAPITAL DURING HOLIDAYS
During the Christmas holidays Doc­
tor Baker was a visitor to the Capi­
tol. On the 18th and 191,h of Decem­
ber, ho attended the International 
Conference on Bituminous Coal in 
Washington. From there lie went to 
Ills native city, Perryman, Maryland, 
where he spent the few days preced­
ing and after the Christmas, and re­
turned to Pittsburgh on the 27th of 
December. This visit was not an of­
ficial one, and is not included in the 
special trips he has taken, or will 
take, this year inUhe interest of the 
Conference. I
WILL HOLD FOURTH 
ANNUAL PLUAAB1NG 
CONFERENCE HERE
Instructors From All Parts 
Of the Country to Attend 
Courses Offered by Carnegie
PROF. S. E. DIBBLE TO 
CONDUCT LECTURES
Formal Opening To Be Held In 
State Hall, University of 
Pittsburgh, Jan. 9.
January the ninth to the twentieth 
Is the date set for the fourth annual 
conference for the training of plumb­
ing and heating instructors. This con­
ference is held every year at Car­
negie, which is located in the center 
of the plumbing and heating trade. 
The conference is under the auspices 
01 the Carnegie Institute of Technol­
ogy, the National Trade Extension Bu­
reau of the plumbing and heating in­
dustries, and the University of Pitts­
burgh. The object of this conference 
is to give instruction to those who are 
teaching, or who intend to teach 
plumbing .and heating classes.
The course of instruction which will 
be given has been arranged with con­
sideration to the eo-operfttion which 
should exist between the plumbing in­
structors and the school authorities, 
and the many other important sub­
jects for proper advancement ol’ a 
well balanced course for plumbing 
and heating Instructors ih the whole 
country there Is ample reason to ber 
lleve that It will be well attended by 
instructors from all parts of the coun­
try. The reason that Carnegie has 
been selectod as a place suitable for 
the conference, is because It has the 
best plumbing and heating course in 
the United States, and. also because 
of its central location.
The following staff of lecturers will 
conduct Hie different, course».:.. Pro­
fessor Samuel E. Dibble, head of tha 
Plumbing and Heating department of 
Carnegie. Mr. Dibble has been at 
Carnegie for over fifteen years and •. 
has boon the main factor In (lie ad­
vancement or CarnoKlo’s plumbing 
and heating department. Walter B. 
Jones, Ph.D., research professor of 
education at tlio Unlvorslty of Pitts­
burgh. Mr. Jones Is a graduate of 
Carnegie Tech's Industries school. 
Lewis S. Land, M. S., educational di­
rector of the National Trade Exten­
sion Bureau. Robert B. Lolghou, 
Sc.B., M. S., head of the department 
of Industrial Sciences, Carnegie. II.
L. Spencer, IVI. A., associate principal 
of the Frick Training Schools for 
Teachers, at Pittsburgh. Gerald D. 
Whitney, Sc.D., M. A., professor and 
head of the department of vocational?4 
education at the University of Pitts­
burgh. Mr. Whitney is also a former... 
student of the Carnegie Industries’ 
school. From all indications It is evi­
dent that this year’s conference w.illa 
be the best one that lias ever beenu 
held here.
The conference this year is divrdedil 
into two one-week sessions. Whan-/- 
ever possible, the instructors wfff £7* 
range to be present for both weeks. 
The instruction is organized in such a 
way that the two weeks' work forms 
a unified course from the beginning of 
the first session to the end of the sec­
ond session. In case any instructors 
can attend for only one week, those 
(Continued on Page Two.)
DRAMA DEPARTMENT WILL 
PRESENT UNUSUAL.PLAY
“The Tidings Brought To Mary” is 
the title of the neixt play to be pro­
duced in the Little Theater. Mr. 
Brown, director of the play, does not 
know how the play will be received by 
the public as the production is very 
different from anything given here for 
some time. Performance will be 
given January 9 to 17. Student night 
will be on January 1.3.
The scene of the .play is the early 
part of the fifteenth century during 
the days of Joan D’Arc. The story of 
the play Is as unusual as the setting. '
II. is a deeply mystical plot dealing 
with the medieval conception of the 
relation between religion and Intense 
suffePing.
The play was written by Paul Clau­
del, who Is the French ambassador to 
Washington. Last year the produc­
tion was given In New York.
The cast is:
Violalne ...............................................
Emma Weinberg and Irene Tedrow,
Mary ........................................... Irene
Kosinski and Kathryn Seybold
Jacques Hury. ..............Walter Rogers-
Arne    ............................Donald Wilson.
Pierre De Craon.. Herman Greenberg;

---------------------------------------------------

PAGE TWOTHE CARNEGIE TARTANTUESDAY, JANUARY 3, 1928
J. C. Major, 1924, Promoted ir 
At The Goodyear Company ¡[
r-l ANT MIT\X/C 1 Forty Million Dollars in Facilities For LLA1N [NllWD j Carnegie Alumni Throughout the Country
Joseph C. Major, a commercial en­
gineer or the class of 1924, was re­
cently appointed manager of the sug­
gestion department of the Goodyear 
Company of Akron, Ohio. This ap­
pointment has come after nearly two 
yearn’ worlc with Goodyear.
The suggestion department handles 
all the suggestions coming from the 
employes, investigates them, and 
makes the awards according to their 
merits.
Major, who was horn in McKees­
port, was very active in school, as 
well as having a very high scholarship 
otanding. He held a George B. Smith 
Memorial scholarship. His activities 
centered chiefly on publications, 
spending four yoars on the Tartan, 
holding the offices of circulation mali­
nger and business manager. He also 
served two years on the Puppet staff, 
and two years on the now deceased 
Technical Journal. He was a mem­
ber of Alpha Tau Omega fraternity 
and Theta Tau, professional engineer­
ing fraternity, as well as Pi Delta Ep­
silon, honorary journalistic fraternity.
Before joining the staff of Goodyear, 
Major was employed in Pittsburgh by 
National Tube, and later in Akron by 
the Miller Rubber Company.
SOUTHERN CALIFORNIA
The sun shone in all its glory, 
hearts were glad, faces beamed with 
happy smiles—and Carnegie alumni 
again welcomed Buddy Overend to
When the complete story of the 
Intercollpglate Alumni Hotel Plan is 
told, it will be a story of romance 
and achievement well worth the read- 
,-1 ing. Even at this early date, the plan Southern California and with him Mr. . jiavi been jn effect for only a year, 
and Mrs. Bob Waddell. ri wo eager | f}nd the aiumni organizations of 
Timbers of the Clan met ninety-three colleges, of which Carne-
m1 " gie Tech Is one, working harmoniously
Harry’HoIiday Made Sales 
[Manager Of Armco, Dec. 1
Harry, Holiday, popularly known 
as "Happy” in his undergraduate 
days, was appointed on December 1, 
general manager of sales of the 
Forged Steel Wheel Division of the 
American Rolling Mill.
Mr. Holiday was graduated in 1912 
from the Mechanical Engineering de­
partment. In his undergraduate days 
he was a very popular man on the 
«campus, and-made an excellent schol­
arship record.
After his graduation and until 1923, 
Mr. Holiday was employed at the 
Jones and Lauglilin Steel Company. 
On July 1, 1923, he went to the Forged 
Steel Wheel Company at Butler, Pa., 
as assistant to the vice president, and 
on December 1, 1925, he was made as­
sistant to the president.
After the Forged Steel Wheel Com­
pany and the Columbia Steel Com­
pany had been welded into the Armco 
organization, Mr. Holiday was elected 
a vice president. His latest appoint­
ment as general manager of sales 
brings him hack to headquarters in 
the Frick building, Pittsburgh. He VO 
convinced that the railroad business 
oi the world should move on Armco 
Forged Steel wheels, and is now busy 
convincing the railroads.
WILL HOLD FOURTH ANNUAL 
PLUMBING CONFERENCE HERE
(Continued From Page One.) 
attending for the first time should ar­
range l.o bo present, the first week, 
and those who have attended previous 
conferences should arrange for attend­
ance the second week. The second 
nomilon In planned especially as an 
advanced program of work for mature 
Instructors who have had I raining In 
previous conferences. In each session 
a choice of courses will bo permitted. 
Three credits will bo granted for the 
two ¦wooks’ work.
'Registration , should be made as 
early as possible on blanks provided 
by the bureau. Since only a limited 
ion mb or can be accommodated, early 
registration ‘will bo considered first. 
All applications, for registration 
whouJd he mailed to the Trade Exten­
sion Bureau bofore January 1, 1928.
The first meeting oF the conference 
will assemble in State Hall, Univer­
sity or Pittsburgh, at 9:30 a. in., Mon­
day, January 9, 1928, for the formal 
opening. Bulletins announcing the 
meeting room will be placed at the 
entrance. Final announcement con­
cerning hours and places of meeting 
will be made at this assembly. Each 
student should carry his registration 
card with him and present it to each 
instructor. Coupons from the regis­
tration card will serve as class enroll­
ment forms.
at the train on Thursday morning, 
December 1. The afternoon was 
spent chiefly on the campus of the 
University of Southern California, but 
the big event came that evening when 
the Clan gathered at the Jonathan 
Club for dinner through the courtesy 
of Ruddy Brandin. A delicious meal 
temptingly served went not unnoticed, 
but not until the last bite of dessert 
dissappeared was our hunger for 
news of school activities, of the 
achievements of the football team, and 
alumni affairs, satisfied.
Then how Bob Waddell did thrill 
us all, how wonderful he replayed for 
us that famous victory over Notre 
Dame, and how proud he made us all 
feel that we were Carnegie men and 
women, proud of the victories won by 
a great team last year and equally 
proud of the obstacles overcome and 
the victories won by a slieroic team 
this year.
Buddy Overend iii his equally 
forceful manner spoke of the part 
alumni must play in building up a 
greater Carnegie, urging the neces­
sity of each one getting behind the 
wheel of our Alma Mater and push­
ing forward, the necessity of support­
ing President Baker in his earnest 
endeavor and most of all the necessity 
of considering seriously the raising 
of our endowment fund.
Anxious to answer the call of the , 
moment many Alumni present con-1 
tributed to Dollar Day. Buddy hav­
ing started the ball rolling with his 
dollar and Bob Wadrlell giving two 
nice silver dollars for ‘Louise and 
Jimmie Junior. A total of $22 was 
taken up and sent In to the Alumni 
office.
Friday was spent in part at Univer­
sal City where David Garber acted as 
host. In thq evening the Home-Com­
ing Banquet at University of Southern 
California was attended by Overend 
and Waddell together with Jack 
Meredith and Bob- Finkelhor who as 
president and vice-president of the 
Clan were Invited to represent the 
local alumni association. In the 
I meantime Mrs. Meredith and Mrs.
I Mason entertained Mrs. Waddell at 
dinner.
I On Saturday, the easterners wit- 
I nessed the football game between 
I University of Washington and U. S. C.
I at the Coliseum.
Southern California Clan is happy 
to have had the opportunity of helping 
to entertain the Important emis­
saries of Carnegie on their trip to the 
coast. It feels, by reason of this 
visit;, that it has been drawn a bit 
closer to the campus, even though 
that campus Is almost three thousand 
miles away.
with the managements of forly hotels 
in an effort to fulfill a mission of 
worthy ideals and mutual Interest— 
to bring to fruition a dream of far- 
reaching significance, yet withal a 
dream definitely possible of practical 
realization.
Likes most tales of achievement 
the Intercollegiate Alumni Hotel 
Plan had its beginning in compara­
tively humble surroundings. Six 
years ago a business man was made 
Alumni Secretary of the University 
of California Alumni Association. As 
a good business man he could not 
reconcile the thirty thousand Cal­
ifornia alumni in the state of Califor- 
i nia with the three thousand members 
of his Alumni Association. His sense 
of proportion told him furthermore 
that the fault lay not with the thirty 
.thousand alumni but with the alumni 
organizalon. So he set about the, 
development of a plan of rejuvenation 
and found himself hampered right at 
the start by the handicap which has 
beset alumni secretaries since the 
first class graduated from Harvard— 
lack of funds. There was a job to be 
done and no money with which to 
do it.
He conceived the idea of having 
suitable hotels in various cities act
to be maintained a card index of the 
resident alumni of all the participat­
ing colleges, and to the hotel were to 
be sent the current copies of the 
alumni publication. Hotels were to 
be supplied with information leaflets, 
reservation cards and various other 
items that would facilitate the service 
which they might render alumni and 
alumnae. A suitable shield was de­
signed to be displayed by the hotels 
in the lobbies with reproductions of 
the shield to be used on the stationery 
of the hotel if it so desired.
A non-profit corporation was formed 
to administer the plan, the directors 
of which were alumni secretaries and 
editors serving without compensation. 
A small central organization was 
created to present matters to the 
hotels throughout the country and to 
effect the necessary contacts and ar­
rangements incidental to the consum­
mation of the work at hand.
Fundamentally the plan adopted 
was much the same as the successful 
California experiment. The hotels 
were called upon to pay a fee, which 
fee was to be used for publicity pur­
poses and for organization and ma­
terial. The alumni organizations 
were to pay the costs incident to the 
dissemination of the lists of alumni 
and the alumni magazines and in 
supplying the cooperation necessary 
to success.
In its final form the Intercollegiate 
Alumni Hotel Plan approached a per­
fect mutualization of interests be­
tween the hotels and the alumni or­
ganizations. So much so that when 
the start was made in September,
Many of our alumni, especially 
those in the Pittsburgh district, will 
be interested to know that Kenneth 
Thomson takes the part of “Lazarus” 
in the film spectacle, “The King of 
Kings,” at the Nixon theater this 
week.
Mr. Thomson is the son of Edith 
Taylor Thomson, who managed con­
cert attractions locally until she 
moved from Pittsburgh. After attend­
ing the Carnegie Drama School in 
1919 and 1920, Mr. Thomson went on 
the stage, appearing with Ethel Bar­
rymore, Doris Keane, Margaret Ang­
lin, Mrs. Fiske and other stars. He 
then entered pictures, playing oppo­
site Vera Reynolds and was leading 
man for Pola Negri.
JUNIOR PROM AT PITTS­
BURGH COUNTRY CLUB
(Continued From Page One.) 
paid toward the real ticket. Anyone 
who did not buy a first ticket may pur­
chase a second ticket for $5.
The third and last ticket sale will 
be held just before the Prom, when 
the second tickets, with $4 will be ex­
changed for the final cards which 
will open the doors of the Pittsburgh 
Country Club on the evening of Janu­
ary 27.
The committee under the direction 
of Ted Zene are working hard and 
new developments are promised 
shortly.
as offical headquarters for the alumni j 1926 some thirty hotels, visualizing
CANTON
The December meeting of the Can­
ton Carnegie Clan was hold Decem­
ber 10 In the private dining roon\ of 
the Y. M. C. A.
Mr.- Heffner made a roport: con­
cerning the bridge parties which the 
Clan Is planning on giving during the 
next year. An entertainment, com- 
mittoe consisting of Mr. Heffner, Mr. 
Paca and Mr. Seldon was appointed.
A very Interesting and instructive 
talk was given by Mr. Whltmer on
of the University throughout the 
state. After conferring with the 
managers, it was decided that at the 
start the managers themselves were 
to 6.ct as local alumni secretaries. It 
was also decided that each manager 
should have in his possession a list 
of all the local alumni of the Uni­
versity to getlier with their addresses 
and other information necessary to 
facilitate local contacts.
Next came the problem of publicity. 
How were the thirty thousand alumni 
to be told that the official hotels had 
been designated and that lists were 
available for the convenience of 
motorists or residents in affording 
contact with their friends and class- 
i mates? How were the alumni to be 
j told that if they stopped at the 
official hotels they would receive cor­
dial and friendly treatment and that 
the managements would do every­
thing in their power to make them 
comfortable? Publicity costs money, 
and there was no money in the treas­
ury. There was more conferring and 
it was finally decided that inasmuch 
as the hotels would undoubtedly bene­
fit from increased business, it would 
be fair for the hotels to defray the 
costs of the publicity, which they 
agreed to do.
| So in the next issue of the Califor­
nia Alumni Monthly there appeared 
a page advertisement acquainting the 
members of the Alumni Association 
with the whole story and asking them 
to center their activities in the hotels 
which disp’ayed the Sign of the Bear, 
the emblem to be displayed over the 
main entrance of the hotels appeared 
in the page of publicity.
During the year that followed the 
Alumni Secretary travelled through­
out. the state, notifying the hotel 
managers as to his time of arrival, 
in anticipation of which dinners, 
luncheons and parties were staged at 
the offical hotels, the managers them-meeting, which will he held Deoom-1w»., u». oi •»». ii iv • t ( i < • 'selves arranging the details. Sufficeher 21, Mr. Heffner is slated to give . ' , ... . ir Tt .... I it. to say, that 111 three years thea talk on vacuum cleaners. Mr. I-IelT- ., , . , if *•_ .i. . , . ., . . .. ,, XT I Alumni Association of the Universityner is chlel inspector for the Hoover; , n. iii. i, i I of California grew from 3,000 to IS,000, Company and lias his subject well in i jinn(j | members.
i I In 1924 the Alumni Secretaries andWe hope to gee a few more of the „ .... .. ., .I -4,- i. i Editors ol practically all ol the Ameri-new men in this section out at the „ , , .I nPv| mPnt!,w , can colleges had their annual conven-, meeting. ( ^ ^ Lehigh University in Beth.
ARCHITECTURE STUDENT
WINS SCHOLARSHIP
lehem, Pennsylvania. The major sub­
ject up for discussion was the possi­
bility of a co-ordinated effort to stim-'
the possibilities, had applied for desig­
nation and had been accepted by the 
Directors in conference with local 
alumni.
In the succeeding six months affairs 
were in a state of flux. Eighty-two 
alumni secretaries and editors, forty 
hotels (ten more having been desig­
nated) and more than a million alumni 
had to get acquainted. Some of the 
hotels expected an over-night return 
on their investment. They were dis­
appointed and rightly so. Some of the 
alumni secretaries anticipated a rush 
of applications for membership. No 
rush occurred. Some of the alumni 
expected ~to stop at Intercollegiate 
Alumni Hotels for half rates. They, 
too, were disillusioned.
Sane-minded hotel men, however, 
knew they were playing a sure thing. 
Alumni secretaries who recognized 
work as a part of their curriculum 
was more than content with the pro­
gress made. Alumni throughout the 
country who took advantage of the 
facilitates .offered by Intercollegiate 
Alumni Hotels realized as time went 
on that a truly important service was 
being rendered.
During the second half of the first 
year Intercollegiate Alumni Hotels 
took on a new significance. Alumni 
gatherings of all sorts were held in 
them. Graduate managers of athletics 
directed their teams to them. Some 
of the hotels set up small reading 
rooms in which were contained the 
index resident alumni and the alumni 
magazines of participating colleges.
Today, one year after the start of 
the plan, more than a million alumni 
in the United States have, for their 
convenience and comfort, facilities 
which total to a value of more than 
forty million dollars. New college 
alumni organizations and new hotels, 
viewing the practical application of 
the plan, are applying for admission. 
The number of participating colleges 
has increased from eighty-two to 
ninety-three, the eleven new partici­
pants being urged to apply at the re­
quest of alumni desirious of obtaining 
the advantages of the plan.
What the second year of the Inter­
collegiate Alumni Hotel Plan will dis­
close is a question which only time 
can answer. The foundation is firm 
and the extension of its activities 
seem only a matter of course. When 
we trace this very remarkable achieve­
ment back to its inception, we are re-
A. Sidney Keller, a commercial en­
gineer of the 1924 graduating class, 
was recently appointed secretary of 
the Council Organizations Division of 
the Pittsburgh Chamber of Commerce.
Connected with the chamber for 
more than three years, Mr Keller 
served as manager of the trade and 
industrial bureau until reorganization 
of the chamber in 1926, and has since 
been secretary of the natural re­
sources division. He lias been active 
in all of the chamber's campaigns and 
special functions.
Mr. Keller Is a native of the Pitts­
burgh district, and before becoming 
affiliated with the chamber, lie was 
employed by the Westinghouse Elec­
tric and Manufacturing Company, the 
Jones and Lauglilin Steel Company 
and the Consolidated Expanded 
Metals Company, which connections 
have given him a first hand knowl­
edge of business operations. He 
served overseas during the World 
War with the United States Naval 
Aviation Corps.
Mr. Keller has a wide personal ac­
quaintanceship among the chamber 
membership and is especially well 
known to members of the chamber’s 
sixteen councils making up the Coun­
cil Organization’s division, of which 
he will now serve as secretary.
California; Hotel Claremont, Berke­
ley, California; The Copley-Plaza, 
Boston, Massachusetts; Coronado Ho­
tel, St. Louis, Missouri; Hotel Lincoln, 
Lincoln, Nebraska; Los Angeles, Bilt- 
more, Los Angeles, California; The 
Lycoming, Williamsport, Pennsylva­
nia; King Edward Hotel, Toronto, 
Canada; Monteleone Hotel, New Or­
leans, Louisana; Mount Royal Hotel, 
Montreal, Canada; Hotel Muelilebach, 
Kansas City, Missouri; Multnomah 
Hotel, Portland, Oregon; Neil House, 
Columbus, Ohio; New Willard, Wash­
ington, D. C.; The Northampton, 
Northampton,! Massachusetts; Hotel 
Oakland, Oakland, California; The 
Olympic, Seattle, Washington; The 
Onondago, Syracuse, New York;
I Palace Hotel, San Francisco, Callfor- 
! nla; Park Hotel, Madison, Wisconsin;
, The Pere Marquette, Peoria, Illinois; 
Hotel Radlsson, Minneapolis, Minne- 
j sofa; Roosevelt Hotel, New York 
I City; Hotel Sacarmento, Sacramento, 
California; Hotel St. James, San 
I Diego, California; The Saint Paul, St.
I Paul, Minnesota; Hotel Schenley, 
Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania; Seneca Ho­
tel, Rochester, New York; Hotel Sin- 
ton, Cincinnati, Ohio; Southern Hotel, 1 
'Baltimore, Maryland; Urbana—I
Lincoln Hotel, Urbana, Illinois; Wal- j 
dorf-Astorla, New York City; Hotels I 
1 Windermere, Chicago, Illinois; Hotel! 
Wolford, Danville, Illinois; and Hotel! 
: Wolverine, Detroit, Michigan.
LEARN TO DANCE
Jacquss School of Dancing
CRAIG AND FORBES STREETS 
In the Heart of Tech and Pitt
Beginners Monday and Friday! 
I Evenings. Advanced, Thursday and | 
j Saturday Evenings. Private lessons | 
; by appointment.Mayflower 7891
CATERING
DEPENDABLE FOR CLASS
------and------
FRATERNITY AFFAIRS
Service that is distinctively appropriate. Complete Menu if 
desired or merely Cakes, Ice 
Cream and Pastry. Estimates 
on request.STORE SERVICE 
Cakes—Pastries—Ice Creams— 
Ices—Bread and Candies ideally 
made and sold at reasonable prices. Phone orders—no charge 
for city delivery.
Table and Fountain Luncheon Service.
Store hours: 8 A.M. to 11:30 P.M.
PROPOSAL RECEIVED TO
RECORD CARNEGIE SONGS
. ONE THOUSAND DOLLAR
CAMPUS SCENE SECTION
TO FEATURE THISTLE
'(Continued From Page One.) 
'•will cease within the next week. 
¦SThose desiring to obtain one will have 
tfiliraty <nT .opportunity of ordering it 
¿¿is week. limited number is to be 
printed and in" order t.o be sure of ob- 
.fcaiTimg a Thistle your order must fall 
the limited time for after that no 
orders will be taken. Salesmen will 
tve canvassing the corridors of the 
Tour colloges and all the dormitories 
for the last. time. The description 
given in this article cannot fully em­
phasize tho beauty and arrangement 
of the book; it. must bo soon to ob­
tain tho full characteristics of It. Or­
der your Thistle now and bo sure of 
getting one.
J. M. FROLICK TO SPEAK
AT NEXT A. I. E. E. MEETING
JANUARY 11
{Continued From Page One.) 
Students and public Interested In 
these meetings are welcome to at­
tend. Further notices will be posted 
fa this publication and on the bulle- 
;tin boards regarding this meeting next 
^Wednesday, January 11.
\IfPATRO N1ZE OUR ADVERTISERS
of age, Alfred C. Wingokl, a graduate 
of the 1927 class in Architecture, won 
the John Stewardson Memorial 
Scholarship for this year. The 
Stewardson scholarship is one of the 
most coveted prizes open to Penn­
sylvanians, and carries with it an 
award of .$1,000.00 and entitles the 
winners to travel for a year in Europe 
to study architecture. In addition to 
winning the. scholarship, Carnegie 
Tech students Avon all of the first five 
places in the comeptition this year. 
The winners were: Second, Stewart 
L. Brown; third, Chester L. Wise­
man; fourth, Samuel M. Barbalat; 
fifth, Arnold Perreton.
In a competition open to all Penn- j ulate the interest o*f alumni generally 
sylvania architects under thirty years ( in college problems and to increase in j minded of the current political slogan,
some way the number of local alumni, “Less government in business, and 
associations and the activities of ex- j more business in government.” Per- 
isting local clubs on some basis oJther I haps the outcome will be fewer alum- 
tlian the time-worn plea of loyalty and j ni appeals to business and a greater 
affection to Alma Mater. J desire on the part of college men in
You can readily picture the task of ; the business world to promote, as the 
organization which was thrust upon | result of enjoyable association, the
the convention at Lehigh.
Out of the confusion there emerged 
a year later a triumphant committee, 
the specific task of which was the 
accomplishment of the Intercollegiate 
Alumni Hotel Plan. The plan as 
evolved contemplated the designation 
in every large city in the United 
States and Canada of an Intercollegi­
ate Alumni Hotel. At the hotel was
fundamental ideals of Amèrican 
higher education which made such 
association possible for them.
The Intercollegiate Alumni Hotels 
are: The Bankhead Hotel, Birming­
ham, Alabama; The Benjamin Frank­
lin, Philadelphia, Pennsylvania; 
Hotel Bethlehem, Bethlehem, Penn­
sylvania; The Blackstone, Chicago, 
Illinois; California Hotel, Fresno,
(Continued From Page One)
tercollegiate contest which is sched­
uled for February 24.
Mr. Bauer also interviewed the 
Girls’ Glee Club, the Kiltie, Band and 
Mr. O'Brien’s Symphony Orchestra. It 
is hoped that one, at least, of these 
organizations will find a means of 
having a record made, as the com­
pany intends to advertise their pro­
duct from coast to coast. This is the 
first time Carnegie has had a chance 
to go on “record,” and it will be a 
step backward if one of the above 
mentioned organizations does not take ) 
advantage of the opportunity which ! 
the Men’s Glee Club finds it cannot j 
accept at present. |
National Tailors
Will feature this season 
CONSERVATIVE 
Style and Fabrics in 
SUITS 
OVERCOATS 
TOPCOATS 
TUXEDOS 
Also a complete line of im­
ported and domestic fancy pat­
terns in the
NEWEST APPROVED COLLEGIATE MODELS
Display at SKI BO !NN 
January 9 and 10
$29.50 - $34.50
To Your Measure
BALTIMORE
ADVERTISE AND GET RESULTS
ALL MAKES OF TYPEWRITERS, NEW AND USED 
SOLD—RENTED—REPAIRED
FORT PITT TYPEWRITER CO., Inc.
Royal Portable Distributors—COURT 1100 
Store No. 1 Store No. 2
428 FOURTH AVENUE SIXTH AND WOOD STREETS
CHUBBYHard Drinks Go to His Head.ukMl.l Y

---------------------------------------------------

TUESDAY, JANUARY 3, 192STHE CARNEGIE TARTANPAÔÊ THREE
SCHOLARSHIPS OFFERED 
THROUGH BROOKS-BRÎGlTCold Cream Shebas and Collar Ad 
Sheiks Strike Standard of Beauty
Round Trip To England Will Be 
Prise In Foundation 
Essay Contest.
Elinor Glyn once described Beauty 
as being an indefinable magnetism of 
an indescribable youthful force. Pre­
vailing Beauty is more than a self con­
fession of this abstraction, for today 
we extol the collar ad sheiks and cold 
cream shebas for setting the standard 
of campus good looks.
Drug store complexions are more 
chan skin deep. Ever since our grand­
mothers crunched her cherries for 
lip coloring and rummaged in the 
flour barrel for a faded complexion, a 
lily -white skin and ruby lips have 
been considered to have the most ap­
peal. With the presenf vogue for 
plaster complexions and tattooed red 
lips and cheeks there is no longer any 
ueed for ancient applications.
That the movies are to blame for 
some of our standards cannot well be 
denied. Vaselined sheiks and vam- 
pirical shebas now thrill present day 
collegians. . Even recent aviators 
have affected some students. But the 
collar ad shieks and the cold cream 
shebas take the "cake,” so to speak, 
when it copies to setting the standard.
Ladies in history who never used 
Palmolive soap and who still retained 
their school girl complexions were: 
Venus, Cleopatra, Desdamona and Lit­
tle Eva. Their illustrious beauty 
graces our modern almanacs and tab­
loids, in fact, they are the show girls 
of Modern Advertising. And it is also 
a well known fact that.Aphrodite did 
not get her peach blush complexion 
from living on a diet of yeast.
'Butter milk baths, spinach, an apple 
a day, and horseback riding are all 
supposed to be highly conducive to 
Beauty. Vet personality schools main­
tain that they hold the secret elixir 
of Beauty—a secret which was in­
augurated when* Eve choked on the 
apple.
Youth is ever imbued witli Beauty. 
Science, ever attempting to retrieve 
it for the winter life goes into divert­
ing paths of rejuvenation and facial 
surgery. Ponce de Leon realizing 
that the charm of life lay In the beauty 
of youth, set sail in search for a 
mythical fountain. And centuries 
ago as old Omar sat stroking his sil­
ver beard he sentimentalized by say­
ing, "
The Brooks-Bright Foundation of 
New York City is conducting an es­
say among the secondary schools of 
the country. .The twenty-six winning 
schools of this competition will re­
ceive membership in the foundations, 
each valued at §2,000; the member­
ships are the gift of an anonymous 
donor. An individual prize of a 
round trip to England and a letter of 
credit for J?500 will be awarded to the 
person submitting the best essay ir­
respective of whether his school 
sends in a sufficient number of essays 
to win membership in the Foundation.
The subject of the contest is an­
nounced “as the white population of 
the United States of America and the 
British Commonwealth of nations has 
increased in the past century from 
20,000,000 to 110,000,000 in how far 
will the continued growth of popula­
tion and the diminishing food supply 
affect the future relations between 
these two peoples and to what extent 
will it affect their relations to other 
nations?”
The competition for membership is 
open to ail secondary schools of the 
country enrolling fifty or more stu­
dents. The essays submitted by stu­
dents between the ages of fourteer; 
and twenty will be judged by each 
school, the best selected and sent to 
the Foundation on or before April 15,
192S.
Membership in the Foundation will 
entitle the member schools to com­
pete in the annual interscholastic es­
say contests conducted by the Brooks- 
Bright Foundation which awards 
every year a free round trip to Eng­
land.
They say PA*
the worlds largest 
seller'
“Ah, That Spring should vanish with 
the rose,
And that youth’s sweet manuscript 
should then close.”
New Student Directory Statistics
Show Many Interesting Similarities
If you should go out on Woodlawn 
ivenue to the center of the Carnegie 
campus and yell, "Hey Smith” 
.here is a possibility that eighteen 
students would answer your call or at 
east turn to look at the speaker. The 
best part of it all would be that six 
of those who would respond are 
co-eds. Smith, however, is not the 
2ommonest name on our campus, for 
there are nineteen students who an­
swer to the name of Miller. Eight 
girls are named Wilson, this being 
the largest number with one sur­
name. There are eight names 
which over ten students apiece use. 
There are nineteen Millers, eighteen 
Smiths, seventeen Wilsons, sixteen 
Johnsons, and Browns, eleven Jones 
and. Andersons and ten Davises. 
These eight groups comprising one 
hundred and twenty students repre­
sent only five per cent of the students. 
This does not show any over abun­
dance of any one name nevertheless 
it causes some confusion. New stu-
lents, so named, might do well to 
change their names for four years 
at least.
There are seventy-three students 
vhose names start with Mac or Me. 
This of course is not unnatural as 
his is a Scotch institution. At pres­
ent, however, there are no Carnegie’s 
among the student body.
There is obviously a great many 
more statistics which can be ex­
tracted from the 1927-28 student di­
rectory. Amateur statisticians will 
have to prepare the facts themselves 
however. For instance, how. many 
Bills, Johns, and Harrys are there 
in the Engineering Schools? Are 
there more Ruths and Katherines in 
the Art school than in Margaret Mor­
rison? What would be the probability 
of getting a date if you call Cyprus 
Hall and ask for Mary. These facts 
would be Interesting and, in some 
cases, helpful. The best method how­
ever is to buy a student directory 
and find out exactly instead of re­
lying upon someone else's statistics.
I DON’T doubt it, nor do I wonder why. Just 
open a tidy red tin and get that full fragrance 
of Nature's noblest gift to pipe-smokers. Then 
tuck a load in the business-end of your old 
jimmy-pipe.
Now you’ve got it—that taste—that Lead- 
me-to-it, Gce-how-I-Iike-it taste! Cool as a 
condition. Sweet as making it up. Mellow 
and satisfying. Try this mild, long-burning 
tobacco, Fellows. I know you’ll like it.
H. A. Thomas Is Appointed 
City Hydraulic Engineer
Harold A. Thomas, professor of hy­
draulics in the department of civil 
engineering at the Carnegie Institute 
of Technology, has been appointed hy­
draulic engineer for the city of Pitts­
burgh to make a study of the flood 
heights as affected by various pro­
posed changes on the water fronts, ac­
cording to an announcement. His ap­
pointment was made by the Depart 
ment of Public Works.
His work for the city will be spe­
cifically concerned with scientific 
study of flood heights in relation to 
re-location of bridge piers, re-locatlon 
of boulevards along the rivers, and 
other construction changes recom­
mended by the City Planning Commis­
sion and other agencies.
Professor Thomas has been a mem­
ber of the faculty at Carnegie Tech 
for four years. He came here from 
Rose Polytechnic Institute after 13 
years of service. During his associa­
tion with Rose Tech he served as con­
sulting engineer for the Pennsylvania 
railroad ini connection with numerous 
cases of damage by floods, and in 1918 
he was an engineer employed on the 
Flood Control Work at Dayton, Ohio. 
He is considered as an expert on prob­
lems of hydraulics and has contrib­
uted a number of authoritative ar­
ticles to scientific and engineering 
publications.
You can pay more 
but you can't gef 
more in satisfaction.
the nationalDIRECTORY STATISTICS AT 
IOWA ARE INTERESTING
ILL. GAGE WILL PRESENT 
NEXT PRINTING LECTURE
© 1920, K. 
Company, 1
PA Reynold» Tobncco 'Ui3tuu*Sdciu, N. C.
Iowa City, la.—The student direc­
tory at the University of Iowa claims 
to be not only a source of Information 
but an interesting bit of fiction as 
well. The following shows some of 
the unusual things which an observer 
discovered:
Side by side is a Banker and a Bar­
bour. Next to Camp is a Canon. Gray 
and Greene go well together.
Three Plums and one Lemon rep­
resent the fruits. Among the birds 
there are one Crane, one Finch, one* 
Hawk, one Drake, five Cox and two 
Henns.
There is one Fish, which is a Bass, 
and has three Finns, but there is only 
one Fisher.
In “animaldom” there are three 
Foxes, two Wolfs, one Schunk, and a 
single Monk.
Professions Here Too.
The professions are well represent­
ed by one Glassmaker, six Cooks, four 
Porters, five Butlers, three Masons, 
two Cutlers* one Steward, five Weav­
ers and one Wagoner.
The 35 Millers must have accom­
plished little, since there is only one 
Crum.
There are three Barnes and only 
two Gates.
There are two Meads, three Hills, 
one Dale, and one Heyerdale. In ad­
dition to these there are two Stones, 
two Herges, one Field and one Fenn.
Minus One Sexton.
To four Graves there are three Sex­
tons. There is but a single Green­
house. There is one Basemann but 
no Pitcher.
Despite the fact that one Groom is 
present, there is no Bride. There are 
however, five Parsons. There are 
three Hodges, and no Podges. There 
is one Knee and one Papp.
For one Hunt there are present six 
Hunters, who have with them two 
Horns.
Three Against Seven.
There are seven Montgomerys but 
only three Wards. While two are 
Free, one is Bond. . There is one Watt 
but no Kilocycles. There are six 
Prices but not a single Date.
Included may befound four Kings, 
two Pages, two Nobles, six Knights, 
one Plowman, one Sargeant, and two 
Sailors.
In numbers the Smiths exceed the 
rest. There are 47 Smiths, 40 John­
sons, 35 Joneses and 28 Browns.
son is a brutal murdoror.
There has never been anything to 
compare with a mother’s lovo. II. Is 
tho lullaby that cradles tho universe. 
It Is ossentlally a lovo of dire sacri­
fice, with Its heart throbs that are 
woeful, and with Its tears ablutlng tho 
earth.
We can only think of Nlobo as 
weeping for her many children; 
Hecuba recalls tho memory of tho 
mother bolng torn from her only 
child; wllllo Andromache hocomos a 
llgure of pity wlion wo thlnlc of tho 
agony she ondurod when Astyanax 
was hurled from tho walls of Troy. 
All of which cannot bo compared with 
the agony which Mary endured during 
those dark moments on Golgotha. 
Such is tho prico of motherly love— 
internal Sacrifice.
An address on "Printing as a Fine 
Art” by Harry L. Gage, of New York, 
N. Y., previously announced for Fri­
day, January 6, at .the Carnegie Insti­
tute of Technology, has been post­
poned until Tuesday, January 10, Dr. 
David Gustafson, professor and head 
of the Department of. Printing at Car­
negie Tech, has announced.
The talk by Gage, who Is a former 
head of the Department of Printing 
at Carnegie Tech, is listed as the sec­
ond of a series of fifteen lectures be­
ing offefed this year in co-operation 
with the United Typothetao of Amer­
ica. The course of lectures covcrs 
the field of printing and related sub­
jects. Lectures, selected from all 
parts of the country, are announced 
as experts in their specialized fields.
Although the series has been ar­
ranged primarily for the students of 
the printing department, the lectures 
are open to the general public with­
out charge. The talk by Gage Is 
scheduled for 3:30 in the Assembly 
Hall of the College of Industries.
Col. E. T. Miller, executive secretary 
of the United Typothetae of America, 
Chicago, will speak on "Organization 
and Management” on Tuesday, Janu­
ary 17, which is celebrated by the 
printing industry as “Franklin Day.”
irluiH not coasod. Two mothers 
have again unorgono tho agony. And 
an abnormal youth, with a heart of 
stono, hi to blame for It. Hoart 
breaks and hoart throbs auo the samo 
today as tlioy were two thousand 
years ago.
Hickman and his compoors havo not 
only broken tho law, but they have 
also fractured tho human equation. 
This equation Is tho bond between 
mother and child. The ancient 
Crooks wore convinced that this was 
adjusted by Nomosis. Wo, of tho 
wostorn world, are of tho boliof that 
It is adjustod by God.
Justice lias over ruled. So that 
when Hickman gets his verdict ho 
will yet have to answer In a Higher 
Court for having violated tho bonds 
of the Human Equation.
WHAT PRICE COLLEGE I 
HICKMAN REVEALS
AMBITION FOR EDUCA­
TION IN CONFESSION
(Continued From Pago One.) 
the plans for their “porfoct crimo,” 
and execute it with tho samo Intrepid­
ity. An abnormal avidity for unusual 
literature is entiroly normal to tho 
criminal, nevertheless, In his perform­
ance ho will be just as brutal and bo 
just, as easily dotocted, as If ho had 
never read a book on the subject.
After that crime In Chicago, Col­
lege courses in philosophy were con­
sidered to be an invitation for inban- 
Ity.
Such an absurdity is even more 
than absolved by this recent atrocity 
which was not commited by a college 
student, who had suffered under the 
plethora of philosophy, but by tills 
modern Procustes, In the form of an 
abnormal callow youth, with all the 
proclivities of a monster criminal.
Golgotha.
Today—two mothers bow their 
heads in trenchant grief.
One grieves over her young daugh­
ter who was laughing and playing 
only a fortnight ago, and then met a 
ghastly death; while the other’s grief 
comes from the realization that her
UNIVERSITY 
RESTAURANT
OPEN DAY AND NIGHT 
Home Cooking 
4605 FORBES ST. (Near Craig)rfv I S I O L.X
e, PROGRESS p 
1 SERVICE 1 
CHARACTER 
INo1X4XLC is a profession with great promise for 
a successful career. Our organization affords many 
real opportunities. Interview between 9 A, M. and 
3 P. M. or by appointment. Bureau of employment 
10th floor.
quality penct 
in the woctd
17
black
degreesKAUFMANN’/Superlative in quality, 
the world-famousStudents Entertained____
With Elaborate Dinners
FIFTH AVENUEPITTSBURGH
till yPENCILS
Buy give best service and 
a longest wear.
rJnrpn Plain ends, per dos. $1.00 a°Zen I Rubber ends, per doz. 1.20
American Pencil Co., 215 Fifth Ave.,N.Y.
Makers of UNIQUE Thin Lead 
Colored Pencils in 12 colors—$1.00 per dor.
Ample provision was made for the 
entertainment of students who spent 
Christmas on the Campus. The Stu­
dent Welfare Committee, of which- 
Professor Wurts is chairman, ar 
ranged a dinner and entertainment 
which was held the day after Christ­
mas which was Monday, December 
26. About 15 students were guests 
of Mr. and Mrs. Kirk-Patrick, who. 
acted as host and hostess at the oc­
casion. The dinner was held at the 
Ruskin Apartments.
The expense of tho dinner was mot 
from a special Christmas Fund which 
was donated for this purpose. The 
fund consisting of $1,000 was a recent 
gift to the Institute by a member of 
the faculty.
Several other dinners were also 
held for the students, Including tho 
one held at the” Presbyterian Student 
House which was arranged under the 
direction of Dr. MacLeod of the Stu­
dent House an'l Mr. Davis of the Car­
negie "Y.”
Fancy Wool Hose
Novelty stripes and plaids, very attractive patterns and bright colors. 
Just the kind students like to wear.
75c—$1.00—$1.50 PER PAIRthe Regal representative to 
show you the $6.60 Regal 
Reproduction of London’s 
Leading Shoe Style selling 
on Regent Street at 75 shil­
lings ($18.25).
An English Oxford made 
from Genuine Martin’s Im­
ported Scotch Grain, Full
• Leather Lined, $6.60.
Aufhammer & Evans
HATTERS AND FURNISHERS 
6100 PENN AVENUE 
At Sheridan Square Established 1872Oakland 
Savings & Trust 
Company
Member Federal 
Reserve System
“The Oakland Bank”
Capital - - - $300,000.00
Surplus------$400,000.00
Deposits Over 
$5,000,000.00
REGAL SHOES
is worth one dollar to any ntudont renting a 
Tuxedo Suit from uo 
COMPLETE LINE OF ACCESSORIESAnn Arbor, Mich.—Delta Upsilon 
at the University of Michigan won the 
fraternity decorations contest staged 
in connection with the Minnesota 
football game. The decorations con­
sisted of chrysanthemums and designs 
made of cardboard, together with 
blocks on the windows of alternate 
Michigan and Minnesota colors. At 
night they were illuminated.
Ad must bo presoHtod
Campus Representative 
The Men’s Store ofJagernan & Splckert
6121 PENN AVENUE East Liberty
Sigma Chi was second, Chi Psi 
third, honorable mention came to 
Sigma Alpha Epsilon, r~ai Kappa Psi, 
Lambda Chi Alpha and the Trigon 
Club.
6002-3-4 JENKINS ARCADE 
4 Night Phone Lafayette 4791-R

---------------------------------------------------

pAPA GETWTHE CARNEGIE TARTANTUESDAY, JANUARY 3, 1928
Dr. S. Morley Lectures 
On'"'Mayan~Civiiization
In Charge of Excavations in 
Long-Buried Capital of 
the Mayo Period
Mayan civilization Hix centuries ago 
wan discussed at Carnegie Museum 
Lecture Hall on Thursday evening, 
December »15th, by Dr. Sylvanus G 
Morley, oi’ the Carnegie Institution of 
Washington. Dr. Morley's subject was 
“The Temple of the Warriors.”
For the pant three years Dr. Morley 
has been in charge of tli,e excavations 
at Chichon-Itza, in the peninsula of j 
Yucatan. For hundreds of years this 
old Mayan capital has been buried 
under the dense growth of the trop­
ical forest. Under an agreement 
reached with .the Mexican government 
in 1923 the Carnegie Institution of 
Washington, with Dr. Morlc# in 
charge, undertook the archaeological 
study of the site, and excavations 
wore commenced in 1924.
The restoration of the magnificent 
Temple of the Warriors has been ac­
complished recently and gives an im­
pressive picture of how this master­
piece of Mayan architecture looked 
six centuries ago.- This magnificent 
monument, which has been, excavated 
from beneath a jungle-covered mound, 
was built on the foundation of a still 
older temple, as has boon discovered 
by Dr. Morley and his associates. The 
Temple of the Warriors Is curiously 
decorated with three brilliantly col­
ored friezes of carved stone, showing 
a procession of priests and symbolic 
animals.
The Mayan civilization presents 
many interesting problems. Among 
the most difficult Is that of its origin 
and its connection with the ancient 
civilization of the , Old World with 
which it shows occasionally strange 
instances of similarity. The precision 
of astronomical observations in the 
Maya Period is particularly astonish 
ing; for example, the Intricate move­
ment of the planet Venus was -well- 
known and thoroughly recorded. The 
archaeological expedition of the Car- 
neglo Institution has discovered four 
ancient structures arranged, as it ap­
peared after they had been uncov­
ered, in such a way as to form a colos­
sal sun dial, on which certain lines 
marked the point of the rising sun on 
the two solstices and a third line 
pointed to the true east with surprls- 
in accuracy.
According to Dr. Morley, further 
discovorios are expected in this in­
teresting field oft archaeological •* re­
search. Ho will continue, his important 
oxplorations in Yucatan next season.
GUILD TO COLLECT BOOKS 
TO LEND TO POOR KIDDIES
Mr. Hebb Jalks'To Printing* 
[^Classes tjere At Carnegie
George K. Hebb, prominent Detroit, 
printer tfUve the first of 15 lectures 
arranged by tho department of Print­
ing l’or tho printing classes on De­
cember 12 in Room 10*1, industries 
Building.
Mr. Hebb is past prosldont of tho 
Unltod Typothotao of Amorica and 
chairman of the IT. T. A. committoo 
of Education. Recontly tho United 
Typothotao established an endow­
ment fund of $225,000.00 for printing 
instruction at Carnogio and it was 
through Mr. Hebb that this money 
was rocoivod.
Mr. Hebb had a very carefully pre­
pared lecture on the subject of “Print­
ing as a Career.” He had with him 
many charts and diagrams to illus­
trate his talk and make certain points 
clear. The lecture started at 2:30 
and was scheduled to end at 3:30 but 
Mr. Hebb proved himself to be such 
an interesting talker that most of the 
men stayed to hear him explain spe­
cial types of printing and to hear him 
answer their questions.
After the lecture was over he had 
a talk with several of the instructors 
on questions pertaining to teaching.
STUDENT
SUPPLIES
C. M. STÄÜFT
3806 FORBES STREET 
OAKLAND
Stretcliinp:|Yoiir Income
Only through careful, system­
atic and efficient handling of 
your funds can you make the most of your income.
The officers of this bank take 
a personal pride in promoting 
the financial wolfare of custom­
ers and are ever ready to assist 
in the solution of their financial problems.
Your savings and checking ac­
counts, even though small, are welcome here.
Gapital and Surplus 
$17,000,000
Mellon National Bank
The Women’s Guild will start the 
New Year with a campaign to obtain 
books to start a circulating library 
for the use of children In hospitals, 
hom<is and settlement houses. It is 
hoped that every woman at Carnegie 
will contribute a book, to be used in 
starting tills library, which will be 
maintained at a Pittsburgh settlement 
house. The particular settlement 
house has not yet been chosen. The 
funds already in possession of the 
Women’s Guild, obtained principally 
from contributions earlier in the year, 
will be used to buy new books to be­
gin a library in a Pittsburgh hos­
pital. Books have been chosen for 
the hospital, instead of the toys, as 
was originally intended, because hos­
pital authorities have expressed the 
opinion that most children in the hos­
pitals are too sick to play with toys, 
but can look at books. This good 
work will be greatly expedited by the 
hearty co-operation of all Carnegie 
women.
Girls who are at all interested in 
helping tho Guild to carry on Its phil­
anthropic activities will be doing a 
splendid service for this organization 
if they give their childhood books to 
any member of Guild Board immedi­
ately after ChriBtmas vacation. The 
members of the board are as follows: 
Adele Hahn, president; Evelyn Gol- 
denson, Laura Bissell, Irene Tedrow, 
Dorothy Roy, Jeannette Folmar, 
Louise Roy. Helen Benedict and 
Blanche Bray.
Close Of Holidays Brings Variety
Of Fraternity Pins To Campus
Yawn! S'tretch- And at it again. 
The grind has begun once more, and 
yet somehow, not too soon. Of 
course there are a lot of feeble Fred- I 
dies who are anathematizing the I 
heavens, the governing board, time, I 
and all existence for this interruption 
to a fortnight's sleep, but then! 
Most of the rest, however, are darned ' 
glad to get back to five hours of reg- I 
ular (?) sleep, a hamburg and coffee 
at noon, a place where one can ex- I 
press one’s sentiments without some 
home soul gasping out, “Why, Jawn, 
how terible!" bacl£ to the newer girl, 
and back to one’s either (pronounced 
i-therj; in all,.back to one’s freedom, 
idiosyncracies, pronunciation, and 
complexes which the home folks just 
somehow don’t seem to understand.
And there’s a fascination, too, to j 
this coming back. One can scarcely 
do more than stand awe-stricken at | 
any corner on the campus to see the j 
remarkable futuristic displays of art 
in the combinations of new, green- j 
striped shirts peeking out from be­
neath vociferous yellow—and pink— 
splotched ties. And the new fur j 
coats, oh, the new fur coats! Nowa- j 
days one doesn’t know whether to j 
run for oue’s life or tip one's hat, 
since the campus has become a veri- j 
table jungle and polar region com-1
bined, with a large portion of kitty 
and bunny thrown in.
And I’m all upset again. The cam­
pus love affairs just “ain’t what they 
used to was” before Christmas. I 
wish to gosh somebody interested in 
maintaining the balance of the stu­
dent ‘mind would publish an account 
of all resumed, dismissed, and'" newly 
assumed engagements (?)—but then, 
it would never be up-to-date anyhow. 
Yet it might help the students a lit­
tle from getting dizzy watching the 
fraternity pins, with new back­
grounds, go by.—particularly after 
Christmas vacation.
There’s a sort of pleasant languid­
ness about school these first days, 
too; probably the result of too much 
sleep or too much “date,” plus an 
oveir-abundance of food (something 
to which the student is unaccus­
tomed). Even the lean and hungry 
professors have a dreamy look about 
the eyes and a paunchy look about the 
lummy and a warm glow about the 
heart, which prompts them to forgive 
snoring in class, and which ’prevents 
their giving quizzes until the next 
(or even next) meeting.
Yes, we’ll play “Truth Party” and 
admit we’re sorta glad to be back; if 
not for anything else, at least be­
cause we don’t have to wear rubbers 
as we did at home.
Resolutions, What!
Local Chapters Of A.I.E.E. 
To Hold Conference Here.
A triangular A. I. E. E. Conference 
will be held In Pittsburgh on the aft­
ernoon of January 10. Representa­
tives of the University of West Vir­
ginia, University of Pittsburgh, and 
Carnegie Institute of Technology 
chapters of the A. I. E. E. will attend 
the Conference.
The conference will open at 12:30 
p. m. when the delegates wilj gather 
at the Carnegie Inn for a luncheon 
after which a short tour of the labor­
atories and shops at Carnegie will be 
made. The delegates will then make 
a similar inspection of the Pitt lab­
oratories.
The main conference will start at 
2:30 at the Mellon Institute. There 
will be 15 or more student speakers 
at the conference. Mr. Ghorardl, 
President of the national A. I. E. E., 
will be.the main speaker of the con­
ference, Mr. Gherardi is tho Vice 
President of the American Telephone 
and Telegraph Company.
The Presidents of the school chap­
ters will alsi) speak at the conference. 
I. L. Smith is the president of the 
West Virginia chapter, M. G. Jarrett 
heads tho Pitt chapter while Noil D. 
Cole Is tho president of tho Carnegie 
chapter of tho A. I. E. E.
The Bagpipe
As tho policy of tho Tartan is to 
improvo and broaden its sorvico to its 
readers, tills column will be conducted 
ovory woolc to roflect campùs opinion 
on subjects of interest to Carnogio 
Tech. Interviews, both selected and 
at random, will bo made to learn what 
Carnogio thinks in order to guide tho 
Tartan in its editorial policy. The co­
operation of those interviewed Is 
necessary for success.
The question asked this week was: 
“What do you think about New Yoar’s 
resolutions?”
Leota McNemery, 'Sophomore in 
Music Department: “I think that
they are all right if they are kept, 
but nobody keeps them. People make 
resolutions, live up to them for a 
week, and then the resolution dies a 
natural death.”
Simon Feigenbaum, Sophomore in 
Mathematics: “New Year’s resolu­
tions are like literary classics, some­
thing .everyone talks about, but no 
one pays any attention to. However, 
if New Year’s resolutions salve any­
one’s conscience, let them go to it 
To me it only means * another para­
graph in the volume of hokum, blah, 
et. al. being perpetrated upon a de­
fenseless public by William Randolph 
Hearst. New Year’s resolutions oc­
cupy a pedestal in the hall of ignom­
iny akin to those of Eat an Apple 
Week, Go to College Week and more 
of the same, ad infinitum ad nau­
seam.”
Garland Kerr, Junior in Drama De­
partment: “It is a good idea to make 
resolutions, but the main idea is to 
keep them after they are made. 
Many people say they are going to do 
bettor the next year, but then forget 
about it.
Harry Foick, Sophomore in Works 
Management: “Anybody can make
resolutions, but it takes a good man 
to keep them. If people want to 
make resolutions, they don’t have to 
wait for Npw Yoar’s, but should start 
the day they realize they are on the 
wrong track. A resolution means 
that a person is doing something bad, 
and if he waits until New Year's to 
change it, he will go from bad to 
worse.”
Tech Shoe Repairing
WE REPAIR RUBBERS 
For Better Service and Workmanship 
4523 FORBES STREET 
Near Craig
This is Station B-L-A-H broadcast­
ing on the efficacy of making New 
Year’s Resolutions.
We ought to have an entirely new 
set of resolutions this year. The old 
ones are so impractical. Just as you 
swear off smoking, and begin to feel 
like a new man, and wonder why you 
ever smoked at all, the best girl 
sends around a box of 2 for 5 cigars, 
and you have to smoke a couple in 
her esteemed presence to show your 
appreciation. S’o that resolution 
won’t work.
“No more loud ties,” you resolve 
But Aunt Marla spoils it all. The 
beautiful cravat she gives you for 
Christmas is a wow. “Isn’t it darl­
ing?” she asks you. “Hurray! yes,” 
and then under your breath, “for a 
toreador.” It really Is beautiful 
though, you conclude, in its glowing 
splendor of crimson and gold, and it 
goes nicely with your new conserva­
tive green suit. So that one is shot!, 
Maybe it would be a good idea to 
swear off swearing, but that’s so 
hypocritical—swearing off swearing 
because one mustn’t swear. Perhaps 
it might be all right to swear off 
though. Anyhow. . . .
Or again, we might try not to lose 
our tempers, but soon—“S'ls, can’t you 
let a man shape the destines of his 
own career? Got away, you (darn) 
nuisance/*
Let’s try something new. But 
what?
“Say what’s the UBe of all this, any­
way? Resolutions aren’t made to be 
kept; thoy’ro made to be broken.” 
“So long! Happy and Prosperous 
New Year!”
McKLVEEN WINS RIFLE CUP
DONATED BY MAJOR TAYLOR
In a competitive rifle match which 
ended December 16, P. McKlveen won 
a handsome cup which had been of­
fered by Major Taylor for the best 
score by any man who had never fired 
on a Carnegie team before.
This match consisted of ten shots 
prone, and ten shots sitting with 
muskets. Both positions were fired 
the same day on targets signed by one 
of the R. O. T. C. officers, the mana­
ger, or the captain of the varsity. All 
guns had to be sighted in before firing 
for record, and only two shots were 
fired on each bull.
Thirty-three men fired in this match, 
and some others who had intended 
firing were unable to do so because 
of the rush to get home for Christmas, 
and because of their heavy schedules. 
This was a much larger number than 
what fired in last year’s match. The 
results of this match are being con­
sidered in the assignment of big guns 
for the plebe team, but those who do 
not get big guns can continue firing 
with muskets until .they improve suf­
ficiently to get a big gun.
The lineup and scores of the first 
ten were:
1. McKlveen ......................183
2. Olszewski .....................182
3. Anderson ......................180
4. Ginrich ..........................178
5. Marshall ........................175
6. McCloskey ....................173
7. Maid men t .....................173
S. Cadmus .........................172
9. Sketres ..........................170
10. Trautman ......................16S
CARNEGIE WOMEN
UNITE FORCES FOR
SCHOLARSHIP FUND
(Continued From Page One.) 
one. It will greatly facilitate the rais­
ing of the money, which is donated to 
scholarships every year by the women 
on the campus. In some cases it is 
sometimes necessary to levy an extra 
assessment to raise the money and 
the system proved very uncertain and 
often unsuccessful. In the future theae 
difficulties will be minimized.
Take Your 
Choice:
If you want to go abroad this 
summer we will be glad to pay 
your expenses. You may select 
any one of six trips outlined in 
our booklet which will be sent 
on request.
If you refer you may have the 
equivalent to the trip in cash. 
Either will be given you as a 
reward for co-operating with us 
in securing new members.
Write today to
DIRECTOR OF TOURS
Literary Guild 
of America
55 Fifth Avenue, New York.
PLAf^S FOR MAGAZINE TO 
BE DISCUSSED AT MEETING
Plans‘for the new magazine con­
tinue to develop. Walter Rogers has 
already received several replies to his 
requests to Vassar, Harvard, Yale, 
MMichigan, Columbia, New York Uni­
versity and several other leading 
eastern colleges for exchanges. An 
open meeting, the exact date of which 
will be announced in the Tartan later, 
will be held within a few days to con­
sider these exchanges and from them 
to decide on an editorial policy for 
this new publication. All who are in­
terested are asked to attend. Any 
one having any plans or suggestions 
is invited to write them down and be 
prepared to present them before the 
meeting.
The purpose of forming this new 
magazine is to take the place of “The 
Shilling” and “The Technical Maga­
zine,” both of which have gone out of 
existence. For a long time it ' had 
been felt that something of this sort 
is needed to supply the demands of 
the old clientele of the two above 
mentioned publications.
The co-operation of all -who are lit- 
erarily inclined is earnestly requested 
by the committee in order to make 
this new magazine a success.
Dr. C. W. Petty To Speak At 
Meeting Of Women’s Club
PATRONIZE OUR ADVERTISERS
Dr. Carl Wallace Petty of the First 
Baptist Church will be the speaker at 
the next meeting of the Women’s 
Club of Carnegie, which is composed 
of the wives of the faculty, January 
the fourth at two-thirty, in the Faculty 
Club Room. His subject will be, 
“The Fine Art of Thinking.”
Dr. Petty is an interesting and elo­
quent speaker. His addresses are in­
terspersed with humorous remarks 
Avhich produce a remarkable effect.
Mrs. Frances M. Walters, chairman 
of the Program Committee, has ar­
ranged to have numbers on the enter­
tainment program for the afternoon.
The folowing hostesses will pre­
side at the meeting: Mrs. Henry L. 
Moore, Mrs. Charles B. Walker, Mrs. 
Malcolm McLeod, Mrs. Russell T. 
Hyde, Mrs. James Austin and Mrs. 
Jolm Blackball.
Introduction by a friend is usually 
the safest way to make new acquaint­
ances. For about fifteen years this 
paper has introduced its students to a 
dependable “Service Station” for Invi­
tations, Programs, Gifts, Pens, Pen 
Repairs, etc. Refer to this notice if 
you patronize the Singer Pen & Gift 
Shop, Jenkins Arcade.
Attention Students!
We sell and rent all 
makes of typewriters.
Portable and Standard 
Machines.
See our Big Supply and 
get special student 
rates.
Standard Typewriter
Company
129 FIFTH AVENUE 
ATLANTIC 0342
Finds Tobacco 
for Breaking 
In” a Pipe
Columbus, Ohio March 10, 1927Larus & Bro. Co.Richmond, Va,Gentlemen:
Two years ago my wife gave me an expensive pipe. I smoked it a great deal for two or three weeks, put it aside, then began smoking it again. This time it was very strong. Veterans told me that it had been smoked too hard for a new pipe and should be put away.The pipe was laid away again. A short time ago I got it out and smoked 
one of the common brands of tobacco in it. The results were disappointing. I told the druggist of my experience with it. He asked if I had tried Edge- worth. I told him I never had. I fol­
lowed his suggestion, and I am honest when I say that it has restored the sweetness to the pipe, and has made me wonder. Was it the pipe or the brand of tobacco that caused me to lay it away for the long period of time?As a novice, I prefer Edgeworth. I 
am going to stick to it, as I feel satis­fied that there is none better on the market.
Sincerely yours,Philip C. Shera
Edgeworth
Extra High Grade
Smoking Tobacco
PRIMITIVEMETHODS
not profitable
B
URNING crude fuels in a raw state is a primitive method 
of obtaining heat. It is wasteful, troublesome and dirty. 
Civilisation cannot tolerate it much longer.
Gas gives you concentrated heat, delivered at the burner, in 
any quantity, at any time. Gas is the only thing that burns.
Use of gas for heat, wherever heat is needed, means: ^loing 
away with the dirt and nuisance of ashes; relieving traffic of the 
heavy haulage of crude fuels; the abandonment c-f unsightly 
chimney stacks, spreading noxious, fumes and soot over the 
neighborhood. It also means improved products.
As industry advances in economic efficiency, the use of gas 
in its heat-treating operations grows. Ask your gas company, 
now, what gas is doing for other companies in your line of 
business.
American Gas Association
420 Lexington Avenue, New York City

---------------------------------------------------

TUESDAY, JANUARY 3, 1928THE CARNEGIE TARTANPAGE FIVE
'»WWW'
Movie of a Man Formulating His New Year’s Resolutions : By briggs
CSOlNS Io SPEKO 
MORS AFTERNOONS 
At the office nextAREENG___ive S1ToNU
Too much Time,
JUN IORP M W
FVHE Y,, oPN A1oRGU1B 
EXCPo DYJN ft. C1EN , Too. 
3P1o ORL9P Y, GYOONGT 
2ARGN8 LX9JNU EN Fore 
D4NLoB 3PN 41To
oPGNN TNTTXYLTW
AND I'M THROUGH
3PGYSXLC EM lYYU 
men’M smsM Vn oPN
AoY9J E1GJNo888 rRo 
VHve A HUNCH UNITED 
3YYoPOGRTPNT URNH 
,YG8 1 Rise"
” 1'n\ c30lr-i<S To 3TaV
PYEN SXoP 3gai SX,N
zYGNH LXCPoTtttrp3
I DOKl'T 5SE WHV SHE 
HAD Tv (So To THAT 
CLUB MEETINlj/ 
To^Jl<Sl--^T'•
On the Plaid Screen
BY FREDERICK D. WOODS
It seems a little strange to return to school and to realize that the year 
192S is here. It does not seem long since ’2S was but a common Avar cry for 
a large group of mighty green plebes, when the year indicated was too far 
away to be even thought of. But here we are, and with the aid of the gods, 
perhaps 192S will go down as a graduation year for at least one of the afore­
mentioned plebes.*******
The schedule for the immediate future is not very full, a lull before the 
rapidly approaching storm of exams, as it were. The sports program contains 
several rifle matches, and a number of basket ball games, all away, as is the 
usual custom before exams.The floor season opens on Friday, when Coach Irwin, Captain White and 
company will engage in combat with the Davis-Elkins quint at Elkins, West 
Virginia. On the following night, the Plaid will meet West Virginia, at 
Morgantown. Both of these schools boast of good cage utfits this season, 
and both are extremely anxious to annex Carnegie’s scalp, so the coach is 
grooming his boys for some real scraps.* * * * * * *
No definite information as to the starting lineup has come from the 
coaching staff, but previous performances indicate that Friday night will find 
Crum and Harpster at forwards, Bond at center, and Captain White and 
Hitchcock at guards. Four of these men, the forwards and guards, are play­
ing their third year together, under the same coach, so team work should be 
much in evidence. If Harpster is shifted to center, and High inserted in the 
lineup in Bond’s place, the entire plebe team of two years ago will again be 
together.*******
The intra-mural basket ball league has organized, has prepared sections, 
and has completed schedules. The first games will be played soon after the 
opening of the second semester, much earlier than last year. The officials 
of the league are deserving of commendation for starting so early. If they 
keep on the job the league management this year should be the most efficient 
in history.*******
The football coaches, at their annual conclave last week, voted to return 
to the 1926 ruling on the lateral pass and the fumbled punt. If the rules com­
mittee accepts the recommendations of the coaches, next football season will 
see an incomplete lateral pass or a fumbled punt a free ball.It was somewhat of a surprise to note the action of the coaches in ap­
proving the new position of the goal post?, as many of them seemed to spend 
a goodly portion of the past fall in condemning it.Nothing was accomplished about the man-in-motion rule, although the 
writer expects to see a change made in this rule by the rules committee, on 
account of the difficulties experienced by officials during the ast season.*******
Although it seems somewhat late to bring this up, it is felt that an over­
sight in the football banquet story, appearing in the last issue, should be 
corrected here. Said oversight is the lack of mention of Wally’s praise of 
Saul Mielziner, for his work at center during the past season. As Wally 
said, Mel was one of the hardest workers on the squad,' who took hold of a 
tough job willingly, knowing full well that he could expert plenty of cen­
sure for mistakes that were bound to occur, and by constant practice, made 
himself an excellent center in one season, a truly great accomplishment de­
serving of high praise.*******
Contrary to general opinion, the rule passed last year by the basket hall 
rules committee, limiting the dribble, does not take effect this season, as was 
at first intended. When the rule was made in April, 1927, there was such a 
storm of-protest from coaches and players throughout the country that the 
rules committee met again, and decided that the new rule would be deferred 
for the 1927-2S season. It was asked, however, that coaches all over the 
country try out the new rule, and after careful consideration, send in to the 
committee their suggestions as to how it will effect tho game.______________
GAME OF BASKETBALL 
INVENTED IN U.S. IN 1882
CARNEGIE RIFLE CLUB 
ELECTS NEW OFFICERS
Baseball and football two of the 
three chief American sports, are not 
•distinctly American in origin. The 
first ape who took pleasure in throw­
ing a cocoanut to his brother in an­
other tree invented baseball, and the I 
game in somewhat its present form 
was a Dutch perfection.
Football, it is claimed, was played 
by the Greeks and Romans, and more 
recently was adapted from the Eng-, 
lish association football.
But basketball, the third great 
American sport, is purely America, 
and is unique in that it was deliber­
ately invented.
Back in 1882 James Naismitli, direc­
tor of Physical Education at the In­
ternational Y. M. C. A. Training 
School, at S’pringfield, Mass., ,saw 
that Indian ' clubs, dumbells and 
weights were not going to be enough 
to keep his boys in the gymnasium 
during the winter months. Baseball | 
furnished plenty of sport in the j 
spring and summer, and in the fall1 
football was rapidly increasing in 
popularity. But ice hockey was prac­
tically the only winter sport, and not 
everyone could learn to play this.
'S'o Naismith set about to develop 
an indoor game. Four walls and a 
smooth floor were all that he had to 
begin with. He realized the import­
ance of football, and suspected that 
some such game migbt be adapted to 
indoor playing. But tackling was an 
important part of football, and tack­
ling on a maple floor would be out of 
the question. The reason for tack­
ling, he reasoned, was to stop a man 
from running with the ball. There­
fore the new game, to be a success, 
would have to eliminate the running 
element. This would mean that the 
ball would have to be passed or 
bounced.
Kicking also would be out of the 
question in a small room, so that was 
taken out. And if the ball were to 
be thrown at the goal, anyone could 
toss it over such goal posts as are 
used in football. So a new goal had 
to be invented.
The first goals were peach baskets, 
hung about twelve feet from the 
floor, and the ball, to be counted is a 
goal, had to stay in the basket. 
Naismith did not have time to wait 
for the manufacturers to build a spe 
cial ball for him that first winter, so 
the first basketballs used were regu­
lation footballs.
According to old timers who wit­
nessed the first basketball games, the 
shape of the ball added interest to 
the games. It was a real feat to 
bounce such an oval, and there was 
always the feeling of uncertainty.
The present basketball soon was de­
veloped, however, and the game be­
gan to assume better form. But the 
first rules were few and far between. 
As many as could get on the floor 
could compete at one time, and as 
many as fifty often would take part 
at the same time in one game.
There were no foul shots, but if a 
team made three fouls, it counted as 
a goal for the opposing team.
Such was the beginning of a game 
that has spread to all parts of the
On December 15 at 4:30 p. m., a 
rifle club meeting was held at the rifle 
range in the basement of the Mar­
garet Morrison building. The purpose 
of the meeting was to elect new offi­
cers, and discuss plans for the coming 
year.
The rifle club is an important 
branch of the rifle sport at Carnegie.
The rifle club helps support the teams 
and the range in a lumber of ways 
such as buying ammunition, targets, 
cleaning rods, paying affiliation dues 
to the National Rifle Association 
which supplies a number of the guns 
and other equipmenut such as slings. 
Being a member of the N. R. A. also 
gives the team the privileges of enter-, 
ing N. R. A. league matches and the 
National Intercollegiate championship 
matches. The rifle club usually holds 
one or two social events during the 
year. It is up to every one interested 
in rifle sport, to join the club, because 
you are helping the rifle sport and 
yourself at the same time.
The membership fees are two dol- 
laars for new men, and one dollar for 
old members. For this fee one re­
ceives a card entitling one to the use 
of the range, guns and ammunition at 
any time. The manager in charge of 
the range will take membership appli­
cations.
The new officers elected for the com­
ing year are: Tom Lippert, a Sopho­
more electricaal, who is on the varsity 
rifle team and a numeral man from 
last year’s Plebe team, also a member 
of The Tartan and Tri-Publication 
staffs, is president.
C. H. Weatherell, a Junior in build­
ing construction, and a letterman 
from last year’s varsity rifle team was 
elected vice president.
Leo Kasehagen, 3rd, a Sophomore 
chemical student, a member of the 
varsity team this year, and a numeral 
man from last year’s Plebe team was 
chosen secretary.
Clyde Park, a Senior in work man­
agement, varsity and Plebe manager 
of this year's rifle teams, also member 
of Dormitory Council and of The Tar­
tan, was elected as treasurer.
Raleigh, N. C.—Dr. B. W. Wells of the 
Botany Department at State College 
thinks that the ideal college would be 
the one where all the students enter 
in their freshmen year fresh and un­
attached, where by the end of the 
year they are all engaged to each 
other, and where by the beginning of 
the sophomore year they return all 
married to each other and ready to 
settle down to study. "The problem 
of education,” he said, “keeps many 
from marrying as soon as they 
should."
And to think that this is the sug­
gestion of a man!
globe, and is the most important win­
ter sport in America today. Dr. 
Naismith, the inventor, is a perma­
nent member of the official rules 
committee and still does his bit to 
make the game continually better. He 
is now at the University of Kansas.
ATHLETIC COUNCIL 
OKAYS NEW GRID 
CAPTAINCY IDEA
Numerals, Letters Awarded 
and Managers Selected 
For Next Year
An interesting meeting of the Ath­
letic Council was held Tuesday even­
ing, December 13. Several important 
items were handled including the 
awarding of letters, selection of man­
agers, and the passing of a new rule 
regarding the election of football cap­
tains.
Wally Steffen’s proposed method of 
electing football captains was favor­
ably acted upon. Beginning with the 
twenty-ninth season, the team will 
have no regular captain. Instead, 
Wally will appoint an acting captain 
for each game. At the end of the 
fall, the players will elect an honor­
ary captain for the past season.
The men receiving varsity- football 
awards were named in a previous is­
sue of the Tartan. The following 
members of the Plebe squad received 
their numerals: Captain Dreshar,
Carlson, Eythe, L. Flannagan, T. 
Flannagan, Helmbold, Iiyberger, 
Netherland, Rosensweig, Roush, 
S'chnupp, and Stabnau. Hilty, C: E. 
Miller, and H. G-. Miller, who were in­
jured early in the season, also re­
ceived numerals. Milton Cohen and 
Guy -Starr were the Plebe team man­
agers receiving awards. Tlie selec­
tion of the managerial staff for the ’28 
season was tabled until the next 
meeting.
Six cross country men received var­
sity C’s. They are Captain Craw­
ford, McNair, Hubbard, Leslie, Hobe, 
and Campbell. G. W. Petticord, mem­
ber of Beta Theta Pi, was granted a 
manager's letter. The Plebes who 
will wear cross country numerals are 
Albrecht, Burleigh, Cuccliira, Hop­
kins, McLure, and Worley. B. H. 
Pease was Freshman manager, and 
was awarded a “C.”
J. D. Campbell will captain the 
cross country team through its com­
ing season. Campbell is a Junior in 
the school of chemical engineering 
and a member of Pi Kappa Alpha.
Louis Fahnstoclc is the varsity man­
ager for 1928.: Fahnstock is a Junior 
commercial engineer and a member 
of Kappa Sigma. Last year, he was 
president of the Sophomore engineer­
ing class and was a Druid.
William McNeil, Plebe manager, is 
also a Junior, being entered in the 
printing and publishing department of 
Industries. He belongs to Pi Kappa 
Alpha. The, first assistants are Ray 
Johnson, Joseph Snyder, and Orville 
Seidner.
Clyde Park will take the place of 
Emil A. Vierow as manager of the 
Plebe and varsity rifle teams. Vierow 
was forced to resign as he was leav­
ing school. Park is a Senior in works 
management, treasurer of the rifle
SOECDT UOKAC LOH
Store for Men
Beginning 
Wednesday, January 4
The Semi-Annual
SHIRT SALE
Over 20,000 skirts—all new—from the maker 
who produces the majority of our regular stock 
shirts. ‘ Woven, printed and mercerized stripes, 
madras, broadcloths and oxfords—collar-attached, 
separate starched collar-to-match or neckband 
styles. Sizes 131/2 to 20. Extraordinary values at
$ ^ each
Also—Markdown of Men’s Clothing 
—Horne’s, Men’s Store—
club, dormitory council representa­
tive, and a member of tho Tartan 
staff.
A two-day trip has been added to
tho imskotball schedule for this sea­
son. On Friday, January (>, tho toam 
will play Davis and Elkins College at 
Elkins, West Virginia, tho following
night meeting tho University of West 
Virginia at Morgantown.
Tho Council will hold Its noxt moot­
ing oil tho 10th of January.
Tif-A SAYS HE’vS 
GO IHG TÔ CUT XtooUfO 
OU HIS •Si'AOKlM’ 
THIS ve A13."
‘But that'-s PLAYM6 
The Vew Year's 
resolution Thins 
Too STR.OMG "
A mam's sot kn 
Have a little
2uv’sApI’ YRo p'(5
LIFE"
" AND if You STICK To 
i£* GOLDS, They caiu't
HUP-T You. ... NOT A,
9YbdAP i/o 1 91G4Y1U8
V H4R oN44 Tue
UJOR.U-D “
Old GoldUie Smoother and Better Cigarette 
__not a cough in a carload
© 1928, y. Lorillnrd Co., Eot. 1760

---------------------------------------------------

PAGE SIXTHE CARNEGIE TARTANTUESDAY, JANUARY 3, 1928
IkKir Cantigli jkbtan
PHONE MAYFLOWER 2G00PubMnhcd one« every week during the college 
year by undcricrnduntcfi of Catnejrie Iniitltuto 
of Technology. Entered In the Pittsburgh 
Font O/Iicfi an necond-clann matter.
EDITORIAL STAFF
Edltor-in-Chief ...................Fenton FinnManaging Editor..............Milton Colien
News Editor..............Margaret RussellAthletic Editor.....................Fred Woods
Women's Editor.......................Jean Roy
Alumni Editor...................Herbert Grau
EXCHANGE EDITORS ' Josephine Clark Florence McLaughlin 
CONTRIBUTING EDITORS 
IRPO9VV Bullinger William RoaeA. E. Fisher E. Weaver
Johh Schniedcr Meredith Stump
Helen Reed » Nathan MillerSara E. Wonders 
JUNIOR EDITORS 
S. C. Ralalon Harold JacobsonDorothy Roy William McNeill
REPORTERS
H. L. Bunker, Jr. ina I-Iansell
E. Jarema E. Schlesinger
Tl VVWri B. KannW. W. Hay j H> McAteer
?¦ TPaj;k . C. BoydJ. J. Boyle __ „H. N. Meixner O Donnall
J. Carpo n• BramBonIT. Levinson Wliltehllle
J. W. Eason R* BarrH. Booth A. M. Fisher
M. Ecliles J- E. WhiteN. Kline M. B. Maze
W. H. Worland C. R. Nelson
W. H. Martsolf C. F. Ackenheil
BUSINESS STAFF Business Manager.. .Shelby McMillion
Advertising Manager........J. H. Seibert
Assistants..........R. Wehrle, T. R. Zenk
CIRCULATION STAFF 
Circulation Manager. .Harold Kandell 
Assistants—
G. Brahmst „ A. Frank J. Roth A. Haynes
G. C. Harbison C. E. BlassG. Thompson S. Bluestone
B. Wedner I. LevinA. Teplitz S. Feigenbaum
M. Malinich J. P. Jones
R. W. Carter D. Ceville
Ofllcc—Room 12, InduntricH BuIldinK. Ofllc« IIourB—Monday to ThurHdayH, 12 :30-l :20 
Paper made up Friday, 12:30-0:00.
To iniiurc publication on tho iiucccedinK 
Tuesday, newn ileum rnunt bo In the iitudent 
pout office or Trtrtan Olllcc before 4 :30 Thurs­
day.
After OfTlco Hourn cnll Schenley 1400, 
Schenley 0846, Schenley 0211.
THE SIX-PAGE TARTAN
especially to work which they dislike, 
the result is that they "put off” the 
unpleasant study until the last min­
ute. Cramming then offers the one 
avenue of escape from failure.
After all,, the process is an experi­
ence, a sort of training for emergen­
cies. The characteristically human 
diHlike for subjects which are not in­
teresting is its cause, and it is a 
cause which is next to impossible to 
remedy. The process in its milder 
form, often known as a "review," is 
certainly essential, and even the most 
concentrated cramming is not with­
out its good points.
LOCK-STEP EDUCATION
YIELDS TO FREEDOM
ON TEST AT HARVARD
Today's issue of the Tartan con­
tains only six pages.
This will not be the permanent size 
of the paper, it may bo the only six- 
page edition this year, or at least one 
of the few which will hnve loss than 
eight pages. The vacation is largely 
responsible for tho lack of news 
items, and it is the policy of tho Tar­
tan to avoid the use of an excess of 
so-called "niler.” On those occasions, 
such as tho present, when news is 
particularly scarce, and advertising 
somewhat lower than usual the Tar­
tan will print correspondingly smaller 
papers, rather than uso a lot of mat­
ter which has no interest to tho stu­
dent body and tho inclusion of which 
would Incur an oxponso that might en- 
dangor a safe financial policy for tho 
Tartan.
IN DEFENSE OF CRAMMING
Cramming will bo tho order of tho 
day for tho next three wooks bocauso 
of tho proximity of tho examination 
period, it is a practice which will 
always bo unpopular with tho faculty 
and the students, but for tho latter it 
is essential, and especially so in a 
technical school.
It is readily admitted that cram­
ming during tho last two or three 
weeks, after a three-month’s loaf, is 
not entirely advantageous to the edu­
cation of the pjerson practicing it. It 
is quite obvious that a large percent­
age of the learning which one may ob­
tain during period of "high pressure" 
study is not retained for any length 
of time. However, even in tho ex­
treme case of the person who crams 
after a several month’s let-up, the re­
sult is not totally unjustifiable. The 
most essential parts of the studied 
material will be retained and the 
process itself may be likened to simi­
lar high pressure periods of work 
which the career of a technical man 
is bound to be conducive of.
Cramming requires the utmost men­
tal activity and the brain is unusually 
alert when under the tension which 
it necessitates. One, learns to dis­
criminate the important from the un­
important after having undergone two 
or three seasons of such a practice. 
No doubt all of the above merits 
could be applied to average studying 
methods throughout the year, but 
they are not. Perhaps this is due to 
the natural aversion to work of any 
kind that most people have; at any 
rate it would not be unsafe to ven­
ture that nine out of ten students 
rarely, if ever, do their best work un­
til the proximity of exams makos 
cramming necessary.
The schedule of studies which tho 
average student of Carnogie pursuos 
—and no doubt tho same is true of 
other technical schools — practically 
makes it impossiblo for him to escapo 
two or throe weeks of forcod study at 
exam time. There are tho usual ex­
ceptions which include those persons 
who learn roadily and retain what 
they learn easily, and then there are 
a few more who have a natural in­
clination to study—persons who ac­
tually obtain pleasure from all forms 
of study at all tmes. For this reali- 
tively small group, cramming is not 
necessary. But the average college 
student finds many of the courses 
which aré essential to a technical 
education disinteresting. 'Learning is 
work for the majority. Humans have 
an inherent aversion to work and
When the first of the newly-devised 
"reading periods" at Harvard Univer­
sity are put into effect shortly, to take 
the place of lectures, recitations, sec­
tion meetings, and tutorial conferences 
for a given period, tho old saying, 
"You can lead a horse to water, but 
y6u cannot make him drink," is going 
to be changed to road, “Will a horsG 
drink if you don’t lead him to the 
trough ?’’
Studonts are to receive reading 
lists, generally speaking, in most 
courses with the exception of engi. 
neering science, military science, 
mineralogy and naval science. No 
mechanical check will be kept on 
tliom to see if they use the library in 
proportion to the degree indicated by 
the items listed. No longer will fac­
ulty members set forth for confer* 
ences witli their "toots,” for the 
tutees will be, so they fondly hope, 
conducting independent and sagacious 
researches into the sources of learn­
ing without aid, supervision or com­
pulsion.
In Step With the Times.
The Harvard Crimson, undergrad­
uate daily, considers the system 
neither revolutionary nor premature, 
but quite compatible with the gen­
eral progress of modern education.. 
The plan does away with what a lot 
of students consider the irritating 
uselessness of traipsing about from 
one lecture hall to another when 
twice what can be learned there could 
—or might, shall we say—be learned 
by reading quietly at home.
The faculty places its chief con­
fidence in the new plan upon the 
point that it may reduce “loclc-step 
oducation,” and, instead, bring out 
the individual. "The upper class­
man,” it in said, "needs freedom in 
order that lie may learn to rely upon 
himself. He also needs time Cor con­
secutive reading and for other large 
tasks, free from interruption by a 
schedule which breaks up his work 
into small, unrelated units."
A Phase of Honor System.
For the students it will be a phase 
of tho honor system. They are 
subtly invited to consider, by the pro­
visions of the reading periods, that 
tlioy will not bo expected to consider 
the periods just so much holiday, ap­
plying themselves to the reading lists 
only at tho very end of the period 
and then under tho deft ministrations 
oC an oxport hired tutor. When they 
are supposed to be reading about 
Laertes and the nebular hypothosls 
and Soorutian argument they will bo 
oxpectod to bo doing so, not keeping 
social ongagomonts in Boston or play­
ing squash and handball.
At tho end of tho reading period 
road there will bo honors, just as 
I boro have boon at tho end of tho 
lectures—rocitations, section moot­
ings—tutorial conference road. And 
it is hoped that the amount of inde­
pendent intollectual vigor sustained 
by the now method will contribute in 
larger degree to the attainment of 
honors than more polite attention 
given lectures has contributed to their 
attainment in the past.
If the student fails on examina­
tions of work done in reading periods 
it will be his own fault. If lie takes 
higher honors than he ever thought 
he could that, too, will be his own 
fault, albeit a happier one.
The student Council has unani­
mously approved the system. Its 
commendation • carries with it ap­
proval that "this scheme will tend 
to give students and instructors alike 
a fuller opportunity to develop their 
own resources. The man of mediocre 
ability and ambition who has hitherto 
limped through college to the secur­
ing of a degree will, if he survives, as 
a result of reading periods, be com­
pelled, as the small boys put it, "to 
hump himself" if he gets anywhere. 
And the university, having taken a 
stand which guarantees its confidence 
in the ability of the student and his 
desire to make the most of his oppor­
tunities, composes itself to view the 
result.
PROF. STARR LECTURES AT
OAKLAND M. E. OXFORD CLUB
"Student Ethics" was the subject 
of the speech given by Prof. E. M. 
Starr of tho department of mathe­
matics, Sunday, December 11, at the 
mooting of tho Oxford Club at tho 
Oakland Methodist Church. Tho Ox­
ford Club, which is connected with 
the Wesley Foundation is composed 
of students from Pitt and Crirneglo 
Tocli, and meets every Sunday even­
ing at the church. Speakers are ob­
tained from both universities and 
from tho whole of Pittsburgh.
In his speech, Mr. Starr emphasized 
that society and humanity are varia­
ble quantities. He further brought 
out that while the college student is 
training himself for his profession, 
which has its own code of ethics, he 
must build up for himself an ethical 
code based on his relationship to hu­
manity as well as to his profession.
THISTLEDOWN
CARDO CHARDON DISENWOLLE
At this time of the year, when our 
stomachs are, metaphorically, full, of 
mistletoe and holly, and our mouths 
are, ridiculously, full of absurd reso­
lutions we never intend to keep, the 
strident Bagpipe has called for a Car­
negie debating team. And besides 
that there was a very reticent and 
serious article on the same subject.
I, who am an old debater, had to 
smile at that article. I smiled be­
cause it was so pessimistic, because 
it so obviously underrated Carnegie 
enthusiasm in regard to this matter. 
The article suggests a cheer leader, 
a group of students, a loud rah-rah- 
rah at the first debate. Now modest 
restraint is commendable, but this is 
too much. There would be three cheer 
leaders, surely, the Union would be 
packed with students and the cheer 
at those first words ought quite to 
unnerve- the anemic gentlemen of the 
negative.
How naively the article goes on. 
Carnegie wants a debating team. 
Wants it, she demands it! It is the 
one topic of undergraduate conversa­
tion. The waiting line at the Grill 
talks of a debating team and forgets 
the bad service. Some of the soph­
omores are already laying bets as to 
which member of their class will 
make it. At my fraternity house some 
of. the men are practicing so hard that 
they are actually neglecting their 
math. The plebe football squad is 
fully cognizant of the situation, and 
they are going to pass a resolution 
that we need a debating team much 
more than we need a library, and 
that they stand for it with every 
pound they weigh.
Of course, a debating team would 
place Carnegie among the foremost 
educational institutes of the country. 
Civilized people everywhere will be 
astonished and swept with admiration 
to see that engineers know how to 
talk about politics, and even perhaps 
abstract questions of art. The least
our teams could do would be to get 
us green headlines in a yellow paper. 
Old Gold could advertise that its cig­
arettes were what kept Carnegie’s de­
baters’ line smooth. Those recognized 
schools who so pathetically send us 
repeated requests for debates would 
no longer be disappointed in their at­
tempts to see a fluent talking student 
of department house heating. To Car­
negie’s debate on the Pennsylvania 
political situation, and whether 
Croce’s aesthetic is more valid than 
Santayana’s, the metropolitan papers 
will send reporters, and the listening 
world will sit dumb before its loud 
speakers while the hookup carries the 
cough of the thin speckled - debater 
from torrid wastes to frozen floes.
Yes, it is glaringly obvious that we, 
students of Tech, are enthusiastically 
clamoring for a debating team. As I 
have blown hither and thither I, too, 
have seen our athletes willing to lose 
their popularity to hear a debater 
utter the scraps of wisdom which 
will P. Q. them to eligibility, willing 
to see football suffer a financial de­
ficit so long as the money pours into 
the debating coffers, willing to slink 
about unnoticed and ashamed of their 
plaid C’s while plebes gaze awesome­
ly at the peaked chin and skinny legs 
of the debater whose defeat of Notre 
Dame has increased the enrollment 
of the freshman class by 23 per cent.
I, Thistledown, join with the writer 
of that article to support debating. I 
utter here and now a challenging cry 
for all debaters to appear. And my 
challenge and exortation is a horse 
laugh, which hope will shake the 
Union, beat eternally against the ear 
drums of all such dull people as de­
baters, and echo and re-eciio as it 
dashes downward to the campus from 
the smoky clouds. Dear Thistledown: 
You’re jealous. That’s why you write 
such horrid things about we girls and 
the library. Answer: No, I'm not,
but why didn’t you add what part of 
the library you use. I ll keep an, eye 
out for you.
BOOK REVIEW
"EDUCATION AND THE GOOD 
LIFE"
Bertrand Russell has done it again. 
This man ranges out among contem­
porary intellects like a brilliant bea­
con lighting up the dark festering 
corners of the spirit and dissipating 
the enfeebling mists of the faiths and 
"isms” to which men cling.
To read this work is to feel one’s 
self flooded with sunlight. Or the 
experience is akin to that of drinking 
deep of a tonic, or a refreshing 
draught from a cool mountain spring. 
The lucidity and fearless enlighten­
ment of the man give a renewed ex­
altation to the weakening mind. In­
tellect and reason stand gloriously 
displayed, so that the reader feels his 
superstitions destroyed, his quaking 
of heart silenced, and the distortions 
of the soul removed. All because Rus­
sell leads so lithely about and beyond 
the pitfalls of unreason and ignor­
ance.
This should be the aim of educa­
tion, “to produce a belief that knowl­
edge is attainable in a measure, 
though with difficulty, that much of 
what passes for knowledge at any 
time is likely to be mistaken, but 
that the mistakes can be rectified by 
care and industry.” The great stim­
ulus should always be the feeling 
that achievement is possible, and 
"from the first days to the last there 
should be the feeling of intellectual 
adventure.”
On every page a death blow is dealt 
to the ogres that cramp and distort 
the child in the gentle process of-ed­
ucation. The rotten ramparts of priv­
ilege and vested interests crumble 
away in the reading of this book. 
What, for instance, is a "utilitarian’' 
education? It is simply that “which 
ministers to some result which is not 
merely useful—i. e., a more excellent 
human being.” What will be the good
of the conquest of leisure and health 
if no one remembers how to use them, 
Russell queries.
Educational . systems in the past 
were in the main perverted affairs, 
the object apparently being to subor­
dinate the welfare of the child to that 
of dead names or institutions. Russell 
writes this book for the express rea­
son that he is one of those parents, 
"who have young children whom they 
are anxious to educate as well as pos­
sible but reluctant to expose to the 
evils of the present educaational sys­
tem.” And the need for casting off 
the tried pedagogy is insistent. 
Those who control male education, 
for example, regard it today as one 
of their purposes “to produce men 
willing to kill and be killed for friv­
olous reasons,” as for the glory ;of 
the church or the state. On every 
hand, beside, there are “intellectual 
systems . . . ready like orphan asy­
lums, to give safety in return for 
servitude. A free, mental life cannot 
be as comfortable and sociable as a 
life enveloped in a creed.” Another 
danger is that boys and girls taught 
to find their happiness in ways which 
are subject to private ownership, by 
means of acquiring property and such 
things—i. e., is a destructive rather 
than a constructive way. Therefore, 
most of the inequalities in the pres­
ent world, says Russell, should be 
disregarded: “The divisions between 
races, nations and classes should be 
treated as follies, distracting the bat­
tle against Chaos (without) and Old 
Night (within'), which is our one truly 
human activity.”
It ta'lces one’s breath away to fol­
low this daring intellect. Can we 
brave these rare heights: “I should 
make it my object to teach thinking, 
not orthodoxy or even heterodoxy. 
And I shall never sacrifice intellect 
to the fancied interest of morals 
....’’ And further, "The child has 
no more important function to per­
form in relation to his parents. His 
function is to grow in wisdom and 
stature. . . . The parent must act 
with reference to the child but the 
child must act with reference to him­
self and the outside world.”
These observations are culled out
SERIOUSLY SPEAKING
Again we had to stand, and hang 
by the arm. The car was crowded....
It may have been the drooping 
drabness of outdoors which rewarded 
one’s eye curiosity but meagerly and 
compelled one’s attention to turn in­
wardly. Or it may have been the ex­
otic flaming scarfs which the men 
about us affected. At any rate, the 
imagination was cut loose from its 
moorings. And queerly enough (hav­
ing once dipped into the love of the 
East), it occurred to us to imagine 
what the round of rebirths, one after 
the other, would mean to the strap­
hanger. How could one acquire merit, 
so that finally this round of births 
would cease, and hanging from a 
strap with it?...........
This train of musing might have 
led far afield were it not that our eye 
was caught by the sight of a luckier 
fellow passenger before us who was 
firmly seated. He was raggedly 
dressed and begrimed, apparently re­
turning from the mill where for hours 
he had been surrounded by the grind­
ing and scraping, revolving and hoist­
ing beings of metal. But his eye now 
stared fixedly, and there was some­
thing remote in them. He was read­
ing (as I discovered by craning my 
line of vision in the narrow field al­
lowed me by my neighbors) nothing 
less than Durant's "Story of Phil­
osophy”. . . .
The shock was rather disturbing. 
But there across the aisle was a young 
lady who from all appearances graced 
an office or administered a counter 
in a department store. Apparently 
she was model 1927; indeed, with the 
air of saucy independence and readi­
ness to claim all the prerogatives of 
woman’s new day, it was interesting 
to obsérve that she was immersed, 
(as I discovered by stooping to re­
cover a precious car check which I 
had purposely dropped) in a rather 
heavy volume which turned out to be 
the latest of Bertrand Russell’s works, 
“Philosophy”. . . .
Immediately the long-subdued hopes 
of the true academician’s heart in me 
swelled to overflowing, for here were 
the mill hands and store clerks, the 
hewers of wood and the drawers oí 
water reaching out for the rich- in­
tellectual treasures. . . . After all, 
perhaps the quakings of heart and 
the deadening of the spirit that one 
experienced as lie scanned the bored 
faces of students in the class room 
were now forgotten. In the car there 
were not only weary bodies and dead­
ened minds, but there Spinoza and 
Plato rode home with a factory hand 
and yonder, across the aisle, Ein­
stein lectured to a flapper. . . .
That evening the well-thumbed lec­
ture notes were again prepared with 
a fervent spirit that recalled the 
years in graduate school, when stu­
dents were students. . . .
No doubt about the cognoscenti— 
those “in the know” were there who 
inflicted the gathering and its pur­
pose, were soon forgotten in the dis­
cussion—nests that were set up in 
the various corners of the room. Be­
ing, by nature, rather backward and 
subdued in spirit, it was impossible to 
wander from group to group. . . .
They were all so clever and mod­
ern. Authorities were invoked in 
every breath and apparently they es­
pied a “movement” here in this field, 
a "tendency” there in that form of ex­
pression where one might look in vain 
and search in desperation to discover 
the slightest hint of any such thing.
The talk revolved ever and again 
about the “primitives.” in the art 
circles, for example, evidently the 
cruder, the more desperately naive, 
the more cryptically unplanned, the 
more slap-dash the better. One very 
expressive individual, who vehement­
ly espoused this renaissance of vir­
ility, took pains to empha'size that all 
this was to confound the convention­
alized and meek masters of old. *
The group that discussed music 
made a racket. To report the gist of 
this disturbance: They were almost 
unanimously of the opinion that noth­
ing but modern music would do— 
and that seemed to have been lifted 
bodily from the African jungle. One 
especially bright young fellow would 
have it recall the body dances, the 
swaying and moaning to the accom­
paniment of a racking rhythm and a 
blaring and pounding and screeching.
As for belles-letters, to our evident 
astonishment, it was learned that the 
daily trivia, like winding the alarm 
clock, walking down stairs, brushing 
one’s hair, involved the most distress­
ing and deepest elements of the per­
sonality. They revealed the most 
heart-rending problems. Nothing might 
now be omitted, for beneath these 
habits lurked such abysmal incest­
uous lusts and racial memories, 
straining to unleash the old Adam.
It was almost unbelievable but here 
were the assembled “great minds,” 
wits and scholars of the community 
and they were (in words to be sure), 
digging in the mud and slime of the 
“primitives,”' exulting in the un­
abashed promiscuity of the Savage 
and the unadorned methods by which 
lie had vented his “desires.”
These two occasions seemed to epi­
tomize the queer conditions of today. 
On the one hand, we have the so- 
called “low-brows,” gorging them­
selves greedily on literature and 
science. Meanwhile, the intellectual­
ly elite, in all camps, are revelling 
with the primitives. For them noth­
ing • is too brazen, too savage, too 
crude. . . . Indeed, the first shall be 
last, and the last shall be first.”— 
Nathan Miller.
College Archaeologists At Karalino,
Egypt Recover Another Pompeii
This year will probably see the end 
of the university exploration work 
being done at Karalino, Egypt, al­
though there is enough material yet 
to be unearthed for another season of 
strenuous digging, according to Prof- 
R. E: ¿oak, of the history department.
This spot of the ancient world, at 
which has been found a buried city of 
Egyptian style, with Grecian influ­
ences obvious, is situated on the 
northern border of Faiyum, at a point 
50 miles southwest of Cairo. The ex­
plorations which are being done here 
are under the Near East Research 
Fund of the University, a fund donat­
ed by private subscription for the use 
of the university. Michigan faculty 
members are in constant attendance 
at Karalino, directing the work, and 
writing scientific conclusions.
"Karalino might well be termed the 
Pompeii of Egypt,” said Professor 
Boak, who spent a number of years 
directing the work. “Imagine a-typic­
ally Egyptian town, surprisingly in­
fluenced by Greek tendencies in
painting motifs, covered with sand, in­
stead of lava of Vesuvius, and you 
have a very good metal picture of the 
unearthings. Extremely valuable
sidelights have been shed on the life 
and culture of ancient Egypt by the 
findings of the university explorations, 
principally through the recovery of 
many papyrus documents of historical 
value, by the enlightenment shed by 
the articles of house furnishings
found, by the instruments of industry 
and agriculture, by the coins, and by 
the house plans and construction de­
tails.
“All the building in this small pro-
vincial town was done of sun dried 
bricks,” Professor Boak continued, 
“which quite naturally crumbled 
when great pressure was put on them, 
hence many of the buildings are mere­
ly a mass of earth and mean nothing. 
But one stone temple was found that 
is_ quite the finest in that section of 
Egypt because of its distinctiveness, 
in that there are no temples in that 
vicinity anything like it architectur­
ally.”
It is notable that in the process of 
digging at Karalino the explorers 
have found one century building and 
civilization buried right under that of 
the former century, each new layer of 
earth bringing to light new knowledge 
of another generation. It is believed 
that a longer period of ancient his­
tory is represented here than at any 
other point, the period sofar known to 
exist from 250 B. C. to 450 A. D.
E. E. Peterson of the University has 
been stationed in Egypt since the sec­
ond year of the work commenced, 
which was in 1924. Professor Boak 
said that he had not been there since 
1925 himself, but that various mem­
bers of the faculty had been there each 
year, amongst these the late Profess­
or Kelsey and Professor Bonner, who 
stopped there on his way to Bagdad.
Professor Boak laid emphasis on 
the fact that the work was being done 
under private subscription, and was 
not being paid for by the state's 
money, but that “more money is 
necessary to wind up the undertaking 
in the way it should be finished, for it 
would be a shame for the very best of 
scientific learning not to be gained 
from the project.”
of the experience with his own chil­
dren. For those who require full de­
tails for the actual course of educa­
tion from infancy onwards, chapters 
are devoted to such subjects as the 
First Year, Fear, Play Fancy, Truth­
fulness, S'ex Education, the Nursery, 
Last School Years, the University, 
and so on.
A magnificent chapter is devoted to 
the ideals which should motivate the 
education of the child. These qual­
ities should include vitality, courage, 
sensitiveness and intelligence. But 
as the culminating goal of all, the ex­
ceptional mind of the genius should 
be fostered. This is the “favored 
child.” His independence means all. 
In the ringing words of Russell, “he 
should be occupied, rather, in the pur­
suit of a vision, in capturing and giv­
ing permanence to something which 
he has first seen dimly for a moment, 
which he has loved with such ardor 
that the joys of this world have grown 
pale by comparison. All great art 
and all great science springs from 
the passion of a desire to embody 
what was at first an unsubstantial 
phantom, a beckoning beauty, luring 
men away from safety, and ease to a 
glorious torment. The men in whom 
this passion exists must not be fet­
tered by*the shackles of a utilitarian 
philosophy, for to their ardor we 
owe all that makes men great.”
But yet we choose to cling and veg­
etate in our comfortable dogmas and 
labels of politics and church and be­
havior. Only a strong, brave man 
like Russell can climb to dizzy intel­
lectual precipices. We pause, and 
wonder—and admire. —N. M.
