Tommy Carlyn’s Band 
To Be At Military Ball
Scabbard and Blade’s Annual Military Ball will be held Satur­
day, December 11, in the Men’s Gym. The Military Ball is open to 
all students, whether enrolled in ROTC or not.
The dance will be held from 9:00 to 12:30 a.m. to the music of
Tommy Carlyn’s Orchestra. Al-4-----------------------------------------------------------
though this is Carlyn’s first en-
Open Letter—
CFP Questioned
At its meeting of November 30, C.F.P. voted in a surprise 
move to sponsor a slate of five candidates for- Student Council. 
These persons, picked from C.F.P. representatives or junior rep­
resentatives, were pledged active support by the C.F.P. members.
Under present regulations governing elections, the forma­
tion of a party by a particular group is perfectly legal. How­
ever, in the past elections, the party system has not been used, 
and the formation of a single party without the knowledge of 
the voters or free lance candidates would certainly give this 
party unfair advantage. Since C.F.P. did not even enter this 
motion into their minutes, I feel it is my duty as president of 
S.C. to inform the student body at Tech of the present situation.
Already several members of the administration have asked 
me for an explanation of this use of the party system. Records 
show that C.F.P.’s views have been well represented in council— 
two C.F.P. members were representatives and a majority of the 
male members on council were fraternity men. Any motions 
adversely affecting C.F.P. could have been blocked, and keeping 
in mind that the power of referendum is always open to any 
group violently opposing S.C. action, it is hard to conceive this 
party as an attempt to form a shield or protective device against 
any “tyranny of Student Council.” If then, this party was not 
formed to protect this group from council, what is its purpose? 
Only C.F.P. knows the real answer—the remainder of the campus 
can only guess. Yet, before an intelligent election is possible, it 
seems only fair that the voters know the true purpose of this 
party.
Student Council would welcome a spokesman from C.F.P. 
at the next council meeting (Wed., Dec. 8) to explain why such 
a party is needed when, on the surface, its formation appears to 
be against the spirit of the election as presently set-up. C.F.P. 
is invited to use time over the PA system (to be set-up in Skibo 
on Monday for candidates) to explain the formation of this party.
George Miley 
President, S. C.
Three Changes To Student 
Council’s Constitution Offered
Three changes made this fall in the Student Council Constitution 
will be up for approval in the all-school elections on December 14; 
two concerning the regulation of budgets of organizations super­
vised by Council and a third changing the ballots procedure for 
----------------------------------------------------?the vice president.
gagement on the Tech campus, he 
is well-known in the Pittsburgh 
area.
He has appeared for a total of 
170 weeks of playing-time at Bill 
Green’s famous Terrace Garlens 
and 16 weeks at the William Penn 
Hotel. Carlyn’s crew has also 
made four return engagements 
within a year at the famous Tri­
anon and Aragon Ballrooms in 
Chicago.
For proof of popularity, Tommy 
points to the ten years public ac­
ceptance his brand of baton-wav­
ing has received. Says Tommy, 
“There’s no point in merely talk­
ing about ‘take it easy’ rhythms 
and tunes. You’ve got to make the 
rhythms and tunes talk for them­
selves. Mind you, the dance beat’s
Tommy Carlyn
At Military Ball
the thing. It must be smooth, 
easy-gaited and intriguing so that 
everyone from six to sixty will be 
able to let his left foot know what 
the next note will do to the right. 
That is my band’s competency in 
supplying tempting beats for dance 
minded customers.”
Queen Decoration
The Queen of the Military Ball, 
who is chosen by popular vote of 
all ROTC students, and her court 
will be decorated at the ball. The 
Queen, as usual, will become hon­
orary Colonel, Regimental Com­
mander, and the three girls on her 
court, Honorary Lieutenant Colo­
nels, Battalion Commanders. They 
will be further honored at the 
Presidential Review of troops in 
the spring. The four girls from 
whom the Honorary Colonel and 
the three Lieutenant Colonels will 
be chosen are Francesca DiMatteo, 
Pat Hoyer, Lin Smith,‘and Joan 
Weber.
Either tuxedo or a uniform will 
be formal for the men. There will 
be no flowers. To facilitate the 
wearing of uniforms to the dance, 
there will be no .uniforms worn 
Thursday, December 9 for ROTC 
students, and for Saturday night, 
basic ROTC students may sub­
stitute an overcoat of their own 
choosing for the issued short over­
coat.
Tickets are $2.50 per couple and 
may be obtained in Skibo this 
week or at the door Saturday 
»light.
Advent Services 
Held Thursdays 
Until Christmas
Advent is the season of the 
Christian year which is filled with 
anticipation and hope, the prelude 
to the good news of Christmas. 
The Student Christian Federation 
Council is sponsoring a series of 
three Advent worship services for 
Protestant students at Carnegie Tech.
The first service took place 
last Thursday at 12:30 p.m. in the 
Emmaus Chapel of Canterbury 
House. The remaining services 
will be at the same place and 
time on each Thursday until the 
Christmas holidays.
The services start at 12:30 p.m. 
and last 15 minutes. Sandwiches, 
milk, and coffee will be served 
afterwards for $.25 per person for 
those who wish to stay for lunch. 
The worship committee of the 
s Student Christian Federation 
Council, which has planned these 
services, is made up of Joe 
Shields, chairman; Prof. Bob 
Rothfus; Nancy Medis; Karl 
Voigt; Prof. Oleta Benn; Prof. 
Martha Eggers; and the Rev. E. 
Vincent Stratton.
Free Musical 
Programs Set
A full week of musical pro­
grams, all free to the public, is be­
ing presented this week in the 
College of Fine Arts Exhibition 
Hall at 8:15. The faculty of the 
department of music is presenting 
three recitals.
Last night’s program was fac­
ulty trios featuring the music of 
Brahms, Schubert and Beethoven. 
The faculty trio consisted of As­
sociate Professor Goesta Andreas- 
son on the violin, Assistant Pro­
fessor Nelson Whitaker at the 
piano, and cello instructor Eugene 
Eicher on the violincello.
On Wednesday, December 8, a 
faculty recital of duos will feature 
the works of Corelli, Beethoven, 
Leich and Reger. Mr. Eicher will 
again perform on the violincello, 
accompanying Roland Leich, as­
sociate professor of piano. Mr. 
Leich is also the accompanist for 
the famed Mendelsohn choir. The 
duo will perform one of Mr. 
Leich’s own compositions, Aria 
¿and Tarantella.
The week of music will be con­
cluded next Sunday evening, De­
cember 12, with the Carnegie 
String Orchestra under the direc­
tion of Goesta Andreasson playing 
the works of Corelli, Boccherini, 
James and Bach.
Party
The Tech International Club 
will sponsor an International 
Christmas Party on Wednes­
day, December 15, between 
8:00 and 11:00 p.m. in the 
Recreation Room of Morewood 
Gardens. Students and faculty 
are invited to share in this 
event.
Pictures
Scheduling for senior pic­
tures will take place in Skibo 
on Wednesday, Thursday and 
Friday, December 8, 9 and 10, 
between 11:30 and 1:30.
All seniors except sorority 
women and those fraternity 
men who have already had 
their pictures taken must ar­
range to have their pictures 
taken by Gimbels’ before Jan­
uary 31.
Ford Foundation 
Gift Of $250,000 
Goes To Grad IA
A $250,000 Ford Foundation 
grant has been awarded to the 
Graduate School of Industrial Ad­
ministration to finance fellowships 
for men looking toward careers 
in teaching and research in indus­
trial administration.
Announcing the grant, President 
Warner pointed out, “We face a 
drastic shortage of well-qualified 
teachers to meet the growing in­
flux of students into America’s 
business and industrial adminis­
tration schools. Moreover, there is 
a great need for more fundament­
al research in these fields. Re­
search and proper teaching for 
business or administrative careers 
can only be carried on if we train 
high calibre young men now.” 
The grant from * the Ford 
Foundation will be used primarily 
for annual fellowships, valued at 
$2,000 to $3,500 each over the next 
five years to encourage outstand­
ing ien toward advanced gradu­
ate training necessary to teaching 
careers. Men receiving fellowships 
under the new program will par­
ticipate directly with faculty 
members in research programs, 
including extensive field work in 
industry.
Activities under the new grant 
will supplement the graduate 
school’s basic objectives of train­
ing men for careers in business 
and industry?- and its present re­
search into the behavior of busi­
ness organizations, effective deci­
sion making, operations analysis, 
and related areas.
The new $250,000 grant supple­
ments earlier Ford Foundation 
awards of $167,000 to the Gradu­
ate School of Industrial Adminis­
tration for research into more ef­
fective business organizations and 
decision-making.
Charles T. Main 
Receives ASME 
Essay Paper Prize
The Charles T. Main Award of 
the American Society of Mechan­
ical Engineers has been voted to 
John B. Pendergrass, Jr. first term 
student in the Graduate School of 
Industrial Administration.
The award was made by the 
ASME board of honors on the 
basis of an*essay on the subject, 
“The Engineer in Business and 
Industry.” Mr. Pendergrass’s es­
say was selected as the best of 
those submitted by senior me­
chanical engineering students in 
| universities all over the country.
The winning essay was written 
; when Mr. Pendergrass was a sen­
ior student at Southern Metho­
dist University last spring. He re­
ceived $150 and a certificate at 
i the annual meeting of the Ameri- 
: can Society of Mechanical Engi- 
: neers held at the Hotel Statler in 
| New York this week.
Pre Registration 
Plan Announced 
For Fee Payment
To help reduce the amount of 
time spent by students in the reg­
istration area, a plan for pre-pay­
ment of fees will be put into effect 
for the spring semester of 1954- 
55. All students may participate 
except the following:
Students who are carrying re­
duced schedules (those carrying 
less than 24 units).
Those students who are not ex­
cluded and who wish to partici­
pate in the plan will proceed as 
follows:
At any time during the period 
of January 10 through January 
26, students may stop at the Reg­
istrar’s Office and make their pay­
ments. However, it must be un­
derstood that for dormitory stu­
dents, the dormitory fee must be 
paid at the' same time. It also 
should be understood that all stu­
dents, whether participating or 
not, must appear at the registra­
tion area the same as always to 
complete schedules and fill out 
I.B.M. forms, but the students 
who have prepaid their fees will 
not be required to go to the Wom­
en’s Gym where the cashier will 
be set up.
Under Article III, “Powers of 
Counoil,” Student Council is em­
powered to “approve the budget of 
every all-school function spon­
sored by any campus organization.’* 
The amendment adds the clause, 
“A budget must be submitted for 
every all-school function even if 
it is merely a statement that no ex­
penses will be incurred.”
The second change adds to the 
Constitution a definition of finan­
cial responsibility: “Financial re­
sponsibility shall be defined as:
1. The contribution of funds in 
whole or part by Council.to 
any organization through a 
proposed and approved 
budget.
2. The responsibility for finan­
cial loss as covered in Sec-
• tion 2, Paragraph L.”
Furthermore, 
paragraph L of Section two re­
quires that Council shall sustain 
financial losses incurred by these 
events up to 25% of the budgeted 
expenditure.
Finally, the former procedure of 
electing* both the president and 
vice-president of Council on the 
same ballot has been changed so 
that a separate ballot for each of­
fice will be held. Previously, the 
runner-up in the balloting for 
president was named vice-presi­
dent.
Election Regulations
Posters: Posters on school bulletin boards must not be larger 
than ll"xl4" and must be approved by Dr. Miner’s office. Posters 
in Skibo must have the approval of |he Skibo manager. All other 
posters are subject to approval by the elections chairman.
Funds: The total funds spent in campaigning by any can­
didate must not exceed $50.
Radio Station: Candidates are free to use the facilities of 
WRCT and are referred to the WRCT station manager.
Skibo Speeches: It is planned tentatively to have each can­
didate give a short speech in Skibo on Monday noon, December 13.
Election Day: On December 14 (Tuesday), the election date, 
all posters within 100 feet of the polls must be removed. There 
is to be no campaigning of any kind within this distance. Polling 
places in Skibo, AH, EH. FA, and MMCC will be open from 
11:30-1:30, and it is planned to have a polling place open in Skibo 
at 8:00 a.m.
“Callers and Watchers”: Any five candidates may appoint, 
in writing, a “caller and watcher” for each polling place to check 
legality of polling procedures. These appointments must be made 
by Monday, December 13.

---------------------------------------------------

Page 2—CARNEGIE TARTAN—Tuesday, December 7, 1954
Candidates State Views On SG Issues
24 Students Entered 
In Spirited Contests
In this issue of the TARTAN considerable space has been given 
to the forthcoming Student Council elections. In an attempt to stir up 
more student interest in Council the TARTAN invited each of the 
candidates to make a public statement of ihs or her platform. Below 
are printed statements by each of the 24 persons now seeking election 
to Student Council. Read them carefully, then vote wisely.
Engineering *
John Alexander, Chemical En­
gineering, Sophomore: I am a
sophomore, E & S candidate for 
Student Council representative. 
My name is John Alexander and 
my platform is as follows:
I favor closing fraternity bars 
from 9-11 on the evenings of all­
school dances. I do not believe 
that any other functions should be 
included.
Varsity sports are de-emphasiz- 
ed too much. I believe that a foot­
ball stadium on campus would 
greatly improve student interest 
and support as well as our nebu­
lous “School Spirit.” The new 
Tech Bowl should include a track, 
for the track teams are right­
fully ashamed of the poor con­
dition of our present track. I do 
not favor greater emphasis of the 
intramural sports progam.
I believe the senior class re­
quires officers. The offices should 
be functional as well as honorary 
and should include the supervision 
of commencement functions.
Freshman regulations should be 
reduced to weaing the dink and 
the Frosh-Soph competitions. Ac­
companying this, and more import­
ant, the Scimitars and Cwens must 
be given power to enforce their 
regulations or the whole affair 
will be as much of a farce as the 
Traditions exam, which less thr;-' 
400 freshmen took.
This is my platform. Please 
vote.
Sally Beltz, Mathematics, Soph­
omore: With great competency
and regularity Student Council 
has failed in every attempt to in­
crease interest in extra-curricular 
activities; why is not difficult to 
determine. One need look at only 
one of the major issues before it 
at the moment: Should fraternity 
bars be closed on the night of all­
school functions? The very ques­
tion shows a complete lack of un­
derstanding of the purpose of a 
social affair. In effect, student 
council is now debating whether 
dances should. become as compul­
sory as engineering drawing. What 
coercion is needed to fill a C.F.P. 
ball, a Pan Hel dance, or a Spring 
Carnival formal; and, if the ef­
fects of lethargy, ethanol, and the 
Squirrel Hill Theatre are not 
manifested at these affairs, why 
should they become so devastating 
to some other poor function?
When no one goes to a theater, 
the picture is soon changed. And 
this is my rather practical pancea 
for ailing functions: kill them. But 
then create others that will be 
self-sustaining. Should the stu­
dent body really desire to accom­
plish a major improvement in the 
extra-curricular field, a change in 
Council is mandatory. If I am 
elected, I will do my best to clean 
the dead wood out of both Coun­
cil and our social schedule, and I 
will try to make our technical 
school a little more of a student’s 
college.
Edmund A. Karcher, Electrical 
Engineering, Junior: Student
Council is at present working on 
two major problems which have 
attracted my interest. The first 
problem concerns the Student 
Council budgeting system. At the 
beginning of every year Student 
Council approves budgets for vari­
ous school organizations, but still 
some of these organizations go into 
the red. They have a budget to 
work with, why can’t they stay 
within it? Has Student Council in­
vestigated to find the root of the 
trouble? Is it because of wasteful 
^ending or a faulty bookkeeping
system? These are the questions 
that have settled in my mind. I 
would like to see something done 
about keeping school organizations 
within their budgets.
Student Council also has been 
tossing around the idea of building 
a new Student Union. Instead of 
tossing the idea around, why don’t 
they push it; get the ball rolling 
and put pressure on the school to 
build the union in the near future. 
The students at Ohio State did it, 
why doesn’t Tech? I think a new 
Student Union would do a lot for 
school spirit. It would give Tech 
students a place to socialize be­
sides Skibo; r modern building for 
organization offices and recreation.
Robert Lindsay, Physics, Junior:
There are many important issues 
facing Student Council this term. 
For this reason I would like to be 
a member of the organization, as 
I feel that I can represent the 
general student opinion in these 
discussions and decisions.
One plan of immediate import­
ance to council and which will 
directly affect the students at Tech 
is the proposal for raising funds 
for a new student union. I agree 
that the present facilities are in­
adequate and that a student un­
ion is important to campus activ­
ity. When the present building is 
torn down, a new one must take 
its place. However, the plan of 
charging each student for part of 
the construction cost, though a 
small part, does not appeal to me. 
The little influence which this 
display of interest will have on 
the fund raising campaign will be 
negated by the fact that the col­
lection was forced. The amount 
raised could be more readily giv­
en by community business.
Another issue is that concern­
ing freshman regulations. I don’t 
believe altering the existing reg­
ulations will improve the situa­
tion. It seems quite evident that 
the failure of freshman regula­
tions is due to the lack of support 
by the student body. The students 
don’t care whether or not a fresh­
man wears his dink, so why re­
quire an incoming student to 
waste money on a ridiculous hat 
which has no meaning? I think all 
freshman regulations should be 
abolished. This will at least avoid 
giving the freshmen a bad opinion 
of our school spirit.
Basil Louros, Chemical Engi­
neer, Junior: The lack of a strong 
central student governing body, 
as has been pointed out in a re­
cent survey of the school, is .one 
of the main causes of poor school 
spirit and disinterest in campus 
activities. As it stands now, stu­
dent council and CFP share the 
student government responsibili­
ties; something should be done to 
co-ordinate the two or pick one 
of them as the main student gov­
erning body.
I feel we have a very ser'ous 
problem on our hands as far as 
student government goes, and the 
solution to this problem should be 
found as soon as possible.
Richard D. Major, Mathematics, 
Junior: The reason that I desire 
to be elected to Student Council 
is that, in my opinion, this school 
1 year will make or break Student 
Council at Carnegie due to the 
I critical issues which face it of 
' which I consider the following 
i two of the most important:
(1) A proposed student fee, 
whereby each student would be 
required to pay a certain amount 
towards the building of the new 
Student Union. I feel this fee plan 
is unsatisfactory to the student 
body, and that a more suitable
one must be put forth by the ad­
ministration.
(2) The perennial freshman 
regulations program. Having been 
in contact with the program as a 
past member of Scimitars, co­
sponsors of freshman regula­
tions, I believe that, unless the 
administration will back this pro­
gram, it should be dropped. It is 
useless for Cwens and Scimitars 
—36 sophomores—to attempt to 
regulate 500 freshmen without the 
backing of the administration and 
upperclass students.
Another problem which I feel 
Council should consider concerns 
the extra-curricular program at 
Tech. The Middle States Investi­
gators suggested that the program 
was perhaps mis-directed in that 
certain portions of the student 
body were not given proper con­
sideration. It is evident that cer­
tain particular factions control the 
program. I believe, for the good 
of the school, a program should 
and can be worked out so that 
this situation is remedied.
John Wyndham Obbard, Me­
chanical Engineer, Junior: I have 
been asked in this column to state 
my platform on the coming Stu­
dent Council elections. Rather 
than try to get my whole platform 
into 200 words, which I could do 
only poorly, I will confine myself 
to a thorough discussion of a 
single major question. The rest of 
my platform is being mimeograph­
ed and copies will be available to 
all Engineering and Science stu­
dents on Wednesday.
There is little question that a 
new Student Union is badly need­
ed here at Carnegie Tech. The real 
question is how to raise the mil­
lion odd dollars needed to build 
it. It has been proposed a fee of 
$15 per semester be charged to 
raise this money. A little simple 
arithmetic shows that this 
amounts to almost a million dol­
lars in ten years. I would be 
heartily in favor of such a fee, for 
while I hke no more than the 
next man to pay an extra $30 a 
year, I can see no other way of 
getting a new union.
The prospect of being left a mil- 
lon dollars for a new Student 
Union by an old grad is very un­
likely. Contrary to much wishful 
thinking, Engineering and Fine 
Arts students seldom die million­
aires. It is equally unlikely that 
the administration will be able to 
raise this money, as they have not 
yet found money for a new library 
or stadium. This leaves only the 
students.
However, I thinj^that the new 
union should be Built now and 
paid for in the coming years. I 
would not consent to pay a fee for 
a Student Union that I could not 
use while at Canegie Tech.
Everett A. Parker, Metallurgy, 
Junior: The recent bar-ban im­
posed on the fraternities is well 
within the legality of Student 
Council’s constitution. The ban 
was imposed to insure the finan­
cial success of all-school func­
tions by attempting to increase 
attendance.
Student Council has placed 
their financial responsibilities in­
directly on the fraternities by try­
ing to force the fraternity men to 
attend all-school functions. This is 
not the way to make a social func­
tion a success, and if an organi­
zation can not make an event at­
tractive enough to insure attend­
ance, Student Council should not 
permit that organization to spon­
sor a function for which Student 
Council is financially resoonsible.
Furthermore, I d(? not believe 
that Student Council should have 
the authQrity to regulate frater­
nity bars on the nights of all 
school functions. This power 
should be possessed by CFP and 
the administration only. CFP has. 
enough respect for other organiza­
tions that it would not go out of 
its way to harm them, and if a 
function was deemed worthwhile, 
CFP would close the bars 
itsself.’ There would be little if 
any resentment if CFP closed 
them, because each fraternity man
would have been represented by 
its own elected officers.
Another issue is whether Stu­
dent Council should have any 
jurisdiction over intramural sports 
and other events that are spon­
sored by other organizations such 
as the honoraries. I do not feel 
that they should attempt to dom­
inate everything on campus. 
School is a place to leam, not only 
scholastical but in other ways, 
and if more students are given the 
opportunity to lead and adminis­
trate, then I’m all for it. Of course, 
there can be so many organiza­
tions that their activities might 
conflict or interfere, but there 
should be enough organizations so 
that both fraternity men and inde­
pendents could have the oppor­
tunity to take part in leading and 
administrating.
Warren Pyles, Physics, Sopho­
more: I am a candidate for Stu­
dent Council Representative and 
a sophomore physicist from Al­
toona. Below is my platform em­
bodying the major questions now 
under consideration. I believe, for 
one, that the closing of fraternity 
bars is justified only on the nights 
of the most important all-school 
events. I am a staunch supporter 
of a system of freshman regula­
tions, proposing that these should 
be outlined by Scimitars and 
Cwens and enforced by the en­
tire sophomore class.
On the subject of the proposed 
Student Union, I feel that the 
Student Council should meet with 
the administration for a cost anal­
ysis. Moreover, since the Union 
is primarily a student recreation 
center, an all-student vote should 
be taken before an assessment is 
made. I am opposed to a Spring 
Carnival float parade because of 
the disproportionate expense and 
time involved.
I also believe that, owing to
its many other obligations, Student 
Council cannot adequately handle 
the job of supervising intramur­
als. I feel, moreover, that the 
present varsity athletic program 
enables students to participate in 
varsity sports without lowering 
the general academic standing of 
the student body.
John M. Senko, Mech-Aero., 
Junior: Being a candidate for the 
coming Student Council elections, 
I find it necessary to express my 
position on some of the contro­
versial topics of the day. They are: 
the poor balance of representation 
on Student Council and the new 
student union issue.
By poor balance I mean the 
number of representatives who are 
fraternity men and sorority wom­
en as compared to the independ­
ents’ representatives. There is no 
reason why this state of balance 
should exist. The fraternity peo­
ple say that independents are not 
interested in Council affairs. This 
is a lot of bunk! The independents 
are interested in Council affairs. 
However, the cost and the close co­
operation necessary for a success­
ful campaign are prohibitive for 
most of us. Still, the fact remains, 
the independents should have bet­
ter representation for their inter­
ests. This is the reason that I, an 
independent, have decided to run 
for Council.
In regard to the new student un­
ion, I believe that it is a much 
needed addition. However, the 
problem of financing such a proj­
ect has arisen. To solve this prob­
lem, it has been suggested that the 
students be assessed $30 a year 
toward this goal. But, I feel that 
the administration should find 
some other means in order to 
avoid this. If and only if, these 
other means are not readily forth­
coming, I would support a policy 
of a reduced student assessment 
for the union only after it is com« 
[Continued on page 3]
When you pause
make it count...have a Coke
IOTTIED UNDEt AUTHORITY OP THE COCA-COIA COMPANY BT 
COCA-COLA BOTTLING COMPANY OF PITTSBURGH
6722 Center Avenue
"Colte" is • registered trode-mark.
IMUnd 1-7011 
© It 14. THI COCA-COLA COMPANY

---------------------------------------------------

Tuesday, December 7, 1954—CARNEGIE TARTAN—Pagre 3
MEN
On Campuswith 
Mœfihaîman
(Author of MBarefoot Boy With Cheek,’' etc.)
THE OPERATOR
On every American campus there are four standard fixtures: No. 1 —ivy; No. 2 —a statue of the founder; No. 3 — Philip Morris Cigarettes; No. 4 —The Operator.
The ivy is to prevent strangers from mistaking the college for a warehouse. The statue of the founder provides shade for necking when the weather is fine. The Philip Morris Cigarettes are an aid to concentration when you are studious, an aid to sociability when you are sportive, and a source of smoke rings to impress new girls . . . And The Operator is the man you can’t do without.Well do I remember The Operator on my campus. He was a young man with a ready smile, a quick mind, fifteen complete changes of wardrobe, a six room apartment, a red convertible, and assorted stocks, bonds, securities, and second mortgages.The Operator’s origins were a source of lively speculation. Some said he was left over from the old Capone gang. Some said he was Judge Crater. Some said he sprang from the brow of Zeus.But, in fact, he was just an ordinary student —to begin with. In his first y«ar he studied hard, took copious lecture notes, got good grades, and made a big reputation as a friend in need. He’d lend you money; he’d let you copy his lecture notes; he’d write themes for you; he’d sit up all night to help you cram for an exam. All of this was done with infinite good nature on his part, and no obligation on yours . . . The first year, that is.In the second year The Operator started to operate. He’d still let you copy his lecture notes — but it cost you a quarter. Sitting up to help you cram cost 50 cents an hour till midnight, 75 cents an hour afterwards. His prices for writing themes were based on a sliding scale — a dollar for a “C”, two for a “B”, three for an “A”. A “D” cost you nothing, and if you flunked, you got a dollar credit on the next theme he wrote for you. , ,His services expanded steadily. He added a line of cribs for examinations. He booked bets on football games. He did a bit of bootlegging. He ran a date bureau. He rented cars, tuxedos, non-wilt­ing boutonnieres. ,But all of these were really sidelines. His main line was lending money. At any hour of the day or night, for any amount from a dollar to a hundred, The Operator was always ready with a sympathetic ear and cash on the barrelhead. And he rarely charged more than 
150 percent interest.
Usury and sharp trading are practices not calculated to win affection. Nobody loved The Operator. But nobody did anything about it either . . . Because undergraduates'live in a perpetual state of need — need of money, need of lecture notes, need of romance, > need of beer, need of something-and The Operator was the goose 
that laid the golden eggs and, therefore, safe.Nor did The Operator seek affection. He just went his well- heeled way, serene and carefree ... No, not quite carefree. One thing troubled him: a fear that some day he might graduate. Gradu­ation, leaving school, would mean the end of his empire. You can’t run a business like that from the outside; you must be right in the midst of things, spotting opportunities, anticipating needs, keeping 
your finger on the public pulse.So he took great pains to stay in school, but never to graduate. This he accomplished by constantly shifting majors. He would come within a semester of getting a B.A. in sociology and then transfer to law. When he had nearly enough law credits, he’d switch to business administration. Then from business administration to psychology, from psychology to French, from French to history, and so on, meanwhile getting cultured as all get-out, rich as Croesus, and never accumulating quite enough credits for a degree.Finally, of course, it caught up with him. There came a semester when no matter what he took, he had to wind up with some kind of a degree. He looked frantically through the class schedule trying to find some major he hadn’t tried yet. And he found one — physical education. So, sleek and pudgy though he was from high living, The 
Operator entered the department of physical ed.
It was a mistake. Among the people he had to wrestle and box with were some great hulking fellows who, like everybody else on 
campus, owed him money.Their tiny foreheads creased with glee as they regarded rhe Operator’s trembling little body; their massive biceps swelled joy­ously; their flexors rippled with delight. Rumbling happily, they fell upon him and covered him with lumps, the smallest of which would have taken first prize in any lump contest you might name.Confused and sick at heart, The Operator dragged his battered members home. He knew he had to get out of physical ed; his life was forfeit if he did not. So, unhappily, he transferred to some other course, and the following June, a beaten man in his cap and gown, received with lifeless hands a diploma and a bachelor of arts degree 
and shambled out into the great world.I don’t know what happened to The Operator after graduation. It’s not a bad guess that he’s serving time in some pokey somewhere. Or maybe he was lucky and went into the advertising business, It so, 
he is surely a big man on Madison Avenue today. T ,But, as I say, I don’t know what happened to him. But this 1 do know: another Operator appeared on campus as soon as this one left, and he in turn was replaced by another, and the process goes 
on endlessly. , , . .. ,, .For as long as boy students like girl students better than going to class, as long as parents cling to the delusion that the allowance they had at college is sufficient for their children, as long as blood runs warm and cash runs short, there will be an Operator opeiating 
on every campus everywhere. • ¿,MtI shulman, 1954
This column is brought to you by the makers of PHILIP MORRIS 
who think you would enjoy their cigarctte.
Statements—
[Continued from page 2]
pleted. Thereby inaugurating a 
program of “pay as you use.”
These are the opinions and view­
points that I shall uphold in my 
term as a representative on Stu­
dent Council.
Victor Shiry, Civil Engineering, 
Junior: Recently Student Council 
has been confronted with a num­
ber of controversial issues all of 
which stem from the lack of in­
terest in all-school events. I be­
lieve that this problem can be 
solved by adding an Activities 
Fee of approximately $15.00 to 
present tuition rates. This activ­
ities fee will replace the admis­
sion fees to all-school events. A 
student not realizing what the ad­
mission fee for all school events 
may be is likely to find himself 
short on cash when there is an 
all-school event. Therefore he has 
no alternative but to stay away. 
However, if this activities fee is 
collected in the beginning of each 
semester this situation will not 
arise. Moreover, each student will 
pay less to attend all-school 
events than he has to pay under 
the present system because more 
students would share the cost.
Peet Silvester, Electrical Engi­
neering, Junior: Only about one- 
third of all Tech students are af­
filiated with fraternities or soror­
ities — yet their representatives 
completely dominate Council as 
well as voicing their opinions 
through C.F.P. and Panhel. It is 
thus obvious that at present the 
independent two-thirds have no 
representation at all. I maintain 
that the student body is faced with 
the choice of either remedying 
this situation or else abolishing 
Council as a mere reflection of 
C.F.P.
To cite an example of violent 
conflict in viewpoint, take the 
controversial Student Union issue, 
I believe such a building would 
be in the best interests of all the 
independents, and hence I advo­
cate its construction with the 
stipulation that no Student Union 
fee be charged until the building 
is ready for use.
If elected, I intend to do every­
thing within my power to assure 
the independents of their rightful 
place in student affairs.
William P. Zakewicz, Electrical 
Engineering, Junior: To introduce 
myself, I am a junior in electri­
cal engineering, an independent 
and at present the vice president 
of the Men’s Dorm Council.
My ideas on some of the main 
issues of this campaign ahe as fol­
lows;
On the proposal to assess each 
student $15 per semester for the 
purpose of building and main­
taining a new Student Union 
building I would cast a dissenting 
vote were I elected. I do not be­
lieve this building would benefit 
or is desired by a large enough 
percentage of the students to war­
rant the assessment proposed.
I believe fraternity bars should 
be closed on the nights of all 
school functions up to a certain 
time. In other words, let’s keep 
the bars closed until say 10:30 or 
11:00 p.m. and give the school 
functions more support.
Concerning the Spring Carnival 
float parade I believe that it 
should definitely be allowed, as it 
is to my way of thinking one of 
the most spectacular and color­
ful events of the year. It should 
be up to each campus organization 
to decide whether or not it wants 
to take on the work and expense 
involved.
Freshman regulations should be 
kept and rigidly enforced. This 
I believe would create greater 
school spirit.
As a final thought, I do not be­
lieve Student Council should su­
pervise intramurals.
MMCC
Marilyn Casey, Science, Soph­
omore: In order for Student Coun­
cil to gain more control over stu­
dent activities, there should be a 
larger representation from the re­
spective groups on campus.
For the amount of influence that 
C.F.P. has in Tech’s activities, 
their representation is low. There­
fore, if the number were increas­
ed there would be more influence 
in Student Council from a large 
group of students. In return Stu­
dent Council could contribute 
ideas to the fraternities.
Secondly, intramural activi­
ties are another great part of 
Tech’s life. They include not only 
the fraternities, but also other 
groups on campus, such as Citcom 
and Newman Club. Because they 
include such a large and varied 
group of students, they too should 
be represented in Student Council. 
In this way*the council can gain 
a larger control over activities and 
gain more importance on the 
campus.
Diane Farrington, Science, Jun­
ior: I think basically that there 
must be a greater degree of in­
tegration between the students 
and the administration. With bet­
ter ^relations between these two 
groups, Student Council would 
then be able to initiate A program 
which would be both satisfactory 
and beneficial to all students. The 
construction of a new student 
lounge or union certainly would 
offer enjoyment and relaxation for 
many individuals, clubs and or­
ganizations.
Also, an enforced set of 
frosh regulations would be de­
sirable with the provision that 
the basis for such rules would be 
not only to acquaint freshmen 
with Tech and its traditions, but 
also to enable them to adjust more 
rapidly to college life. On the oth­
er hand, I don’t think that Coun­
cil should be so dictatorial as to 
completely control all campus ac­
tivities. For example, I think that 
both men’s and women’s intra­
mural programs are being run 
well and the organizations should 
remain as they are. In closing, I 
should like to say that Student 
Council should be representative 
of the entire student body — so 
vote!
Bnnny Florschutz, Home Eco­
nomics, Junior: Since each issue 
brought before Student Council 
could be discussed on end, I have 
chosen three I think most im­
portant.
First, should fraternity bar be 
closed on nights of all-school 
functions? I agree with Student 
Council which suggests that bars 
be closed between 9 and 11, but I 
think that they should be opened 
following the dances. Most stu­
dents go to these dances in order 
to find out who won trophies, and 
afterwards I think it best to cir­
culate among fraternities rather 
than driving off campus. In order 
[Continued on page 8]
Campus Headquarters for Arrow Products
LEONARD'S MEN'S SHOP
Corner Forbes and Atwood St.Oakland
Shop now for Christmas and relax!
Why not shop now for Dads, uncles and brothers? The campus 
stores are near, less crowded, and loaded with smart Arrow 
items for the male side of your Christmas list.
Be it shirts, ties, casual wear, handkerchiefs, or underwear. 
Arrow has them in smooth styles and perfect fit. Get them now 
and spend your vacation days restin’ and rompin’ in the easy 
social manner. Slide down to the man who sells Arrow and solve your Christmas-shopping cares today!
ABROW SHIRTS & TIES
UNDERWEAR • HANDKERCHIEFS • CASUAL WEAR
OpenLtr.mj
mmm
For Your ARROW Shirt* and Ti«*
FRANK MEN'S WEAR
5816 FORBES STREET HA 1-960« SQUIRREL HILL 
Open Tuesday and Thursday evenings

---------------------------------------------------

Pafe 4—CARNEGIE TARTAN—Tuesday, December 7, 1954
Editorial—
SC Elections
Perhaps this issue of the Tartan should 
be called the Student Council issue since so 
much space has been devoted to the forth­
coming elections for members to the student 
governing body which will be held a week 
from today. We feel that this space is be­
ing well used. Every student should have a 
definite interest in who the members of the 
Council are since it is the student governing 
body. It is admitted that many of the Coun­
cils in the past few years have done little 
or nothing for which to be proud, but the or­
ganizations this year seems to be doing its 
best to place Council on the level it should be.
That is, an active organization with capable 
leaders and members which has the respect 
of both the student body and administration.
Many of the students have the mistaken 
impression that Student Council should be 
the ultimate policy making body for the 
school. This is impossible as no group of 
students can completely know all the factors 
governing school life. There are many areas 
that Student Council controls directly, but 
other decisions must rest in the hands of the 
administration. It is up to Council to make 
sure the administration completely realizes 
student sentiment in these areas. It also
seems logical that the administration will _______________
listen to the views of a strong Council rather than those of a 
weak organization.
But Council is only as active as the individual members. 
The organization needs representatives who are willing to 
put time on the job other than just attending the weekly 
meetings. In the past one of the main problems has been 
that there were too many “chair fillers” that did nothing but
sit. For this reason we feel that the student body is entitled
to know how each candidate stands on certain issues and 
what his or her action would be if elected. The only way 
to clear Council of the “chair fillers” is to arouse interest 
in the elections.
The interest shown in the present election has been made 
heartening. There are more candidates than usual. Also 
the candidates seem to be conscious of their responsibility. 
Each candidate was asked to prepare a statement of his or 
her views to be published in the Tartan. Every one of the 
24 candidates did so. From our own past experience this is 
indeed a miracle. Several of the candidates are having their 
platforms mimeographed for distribution.
The Council of Fraternity Presidents recommended a 
slate of candidates to its member groups. Other students are 
campaigning on the basis of representing the independent 
group. Although there is nothing against this action it seems 
to be misdirected. .Student Council has taken no action 
lately which suppresses any group on campus. The action 
of CFP will do nothing but harm the fraternity system. A 
strong anti-fraternity feeling among the dorm men could 
ruin the fraternities rushing programs.
It is now up to you as an individual student. During 
the next week you must decide, as an individual, who should 
serve on Council. It is your responsibility to see that Council 
is made up of members who will represent the student body 
best. p. D. C.
“48 gum wrappers, 12 cigarette butts, 8 orange peelings and 3 
votes in this one—if you ask me there hasn’t been enough student 
interest in campus politics this year.”
OFFICES: Carnegie Union, 5075 Forbes Street, Pittsburgh 13, Pa. Telephone
SChenley 1-4557; after hours MUseum 3-2312, for advertising and subscription rates 
call MUseum 2-3990. Published weekly during the school year except holidays 
and examination periods by the students of Carnegie Institute of Technology, Pittsburgh 13, Pa.
Editor-in-Chief ......................................................................................................Paul Carmichael
Executive Editor ...............................................................................................................Wilson Sick
Business Manager .................................................... ............... ...................Stan Rosenberg
Managing Editor .............................................................................. ..................................Jo Forsythe
News Editor .................... ................................................... ......................................June Sochatoff
Sports Editor ...............................................................................................................Lenny Feldman
Copy Editor—Bob Russell. Advertising Manager-—Marty Ostroff. Assistant 
Business Manager—Vic Shiry. Circulation Manager—Don Gross. Office Manager
—Joyce Wright. Photography Editor—Barbara Toia. Features Editor—Joe Szwec. 
Reporters—Marilyn Casey, Stephanie Mackay. Anne Mehler, Pat Mitchell, Dottie 
Scarf. Joanne Babbitt, Marjo King, Arthur Marino, Barbara Robeson, Carolou 
Fidder, Sally Day, Peggy Heath. Dolores Chidester. Evelyn Alessio, Janet Bishop, 
Kay Melenyzer, Juli Wehousie. Spirts Staff—James Lacey. Art Staff—Carolyn 
Copp, Harold MacDonald, Robert Connell. Make-Up Staff—Tom Wright, Jack 
Recker, Paul Doebler, Hayden Duensing. Advertising Staff—Robert Sorkin, Harly 
Bi-mbach, Frank Zonis, Herbert Kriendler. Circulation Staff—Sheldon Cremer, 
Barry Reisman. Typists—Mary Langdon, Anne Barnes, Marjorie Forster. Copy 
Runner—Ronald Kohl.
Entered as second class matter on October 4, 1907, at the Post Office at 
Pittsburgh. Pa., under act of March 3, 1879. Accepted for mailing at special rate 
of postage provided for in the act of February 28, 1925.
Member of the Associated College Press.Represented for national advertising by National Advertising, Inc., College 
publishers representative, 420 Madison Ave., New York City. Subscription« $1.10 
par year.
Over Tlie 
Skibo Table
By Joseph A. Szwec
The shock of grades is over, the thrill of vacation 
has come to an end; intramurals are in full swing; 
and Christmas shopping is upon us. Christmas, with 
all its joy, mistletoe, warmth, mistletoe, friendli­
ness, mistletoe, gaiety, mistletoe, and the question, 
“What do I get for the girl (or guy).that has every­
thing?” This is really quite a problem.
According to the rules, a man is engaged to a 
person of the opposite sex until the only per- 
missable gift is flowers or candy. However, since 
no one follows the rule, we have listed a few gifts 
that should make the girl of your dreams run up 
to you and say, “Darling, it’s beautiful. What is it?”
* * *
A MATCHING RHINESTONE EVENING BAG 
AND FLASHLIGHT. The bag should be small so 
it fits easily into your tuxedo pocket at CFP. The 
flashlight should be of the push button type. She 
may want to send an S. O. S. to the bartender.
A GENUINE SHRUNKEN HEAD. This delights 
the ladies, especially if it’s the head of a guy that’s 
stood her up on a date.
A PLATINUM ANCHOVIE SKINNER. Just for 
the heck of it.
THE PIZZA EATERS HANDBOOK. Tells all the 
charms, graces, and spot removers that every 
experienced pizza eater knows.
EVENING IN MACHINERY HALL. The very 
latest perfume by Chanel. It will delight the woman 
who is discriminating and prefers to smell like 
burnt wires and flue gas.
A PACK OF CIGARETTES, ’nuff said.
* =f *
THE COMPLETE SET OF BOBBSEY TWIN
STORIES. This fabulous collection contains 103 
illustrated volumes bound in birddog skin. Some of 
these illustrations suitably for framing are the 
Bobbsey Twins at the seashore, the Bobbsey Twins 
on the farm, and the Bobbsey twins loaded. As a 
special feature, if you buy the whole set, the 
company will include an 8V2 x 11 colored painting 
of the Bobbsey Twins in bermuda shorts and those 
gosh awful (sic) kneesocks.
STERLING SILVER EAR PIERCING KIT. This 
set will immediately catch milady’s eye. Enclosed 
in a genuine leather carrying case, this kit will 
fierce holes from the normal size for normal ears 
to half dollar size for people with large ear lobes.* * *
Little quickies. Congratulations Eddy Miller. 
Your performances on the gridiron this year war­
rant you the Buddy Overend trophy, The Varsity 
Clan trophy, and the Monday Morning Quarterback 
Club award, as Tech’s most valuable football
player . . .
Congratulations to Mai Gillies for winning the 
Varsity Clan trophy as Tech’s most valuable cross­
country runner. . . . Don’t miss the new SCOT. 
New paper, finer layout, better features, and the 
Scot Calendar for 1955 is well worth the quarter.
. . . Question of the week. What senior football 
player is called dimples? . . . Latest disparaging 
remark about the new men’s dorm, Donner Hall. 
“It looks like a swimming pool upside down. What 
is it, the largest shower room in the world?”
Letter—
Campus Chest
Editor, the Tartan:
Although this year’s Campus Chest drive was 
originally scheduled to close on December 1, it 
will be extended until Monday, December 13. This 
extension has been brought about by the failure of 
125 students to pay their pledges before the dead­
line of December 1. We would now like to thank 
all the wonderful people, literally hundreds of 
them, who have helped to make this year’s cam­
paign a success. In cash, $1245 has been collected 
and if the 125 students pay their pledges, we should 
go over $1500. The following list of people who 
gave their time- and efforts to the campaign does 
not necessarily list them in order of their im­
portance, but just as their names come into mind.
Thanks to Dean Graham, Dean Miner, Dean 
David, Mr. Strick, Mr. Gibson, and their secre­
taries, Mrs. J3urke, Miss Barb£rie, Mrs. Updike, 
and Miss Sole; John Bos, Margie Forster and Janet 
Bishop of the Student Council Publicity Committee, 
who did a wonderful job.
Thanks to those faculty members who coop­
erated with this committee and sent representa­
tives of their classes to the instructional meetings, 
and to the men and women who made the chest 
appeals in their classes. We appreciate the work 
of the printing department' in printing the en­
velopes used in the campaign.
Thanks to the six fraternities who endorsed 
candidates for UMOC; Dave Larson and Alpha Phi 
Omega, who ran this last mentioned campaign in 
addition to an auction; Delta Skull; Scimitars; Men’s 
Dorm Council; Women’s Dorm Council; Citcom; 
Panhellenic; and the Council of Fraternity Presi­
dents.
Last, but not least, thanks to all those students 
who fulfilled their civic responsibilities and do­
nated whatever they could to this year’s campus 
chest campaign.
Dorothy McGinley
Sy Kellman
Co-Chairmen, Campus Chest
WRCT 
SCHEDULE
Tuesday
8:00 a.m.—World and 
Morning 
7:30 a.m.—Music in the 
Campus News 
8:10 a.m.—Music in the 
Morning 
9:00 a.m.—Sign Off 
7:00 p.m.—Sign On, News 
7:15 p.m.—Adventures in 
Research 
7:30 p.m.—Radio Federation 
8:00 p.m.—The Master 
Performers 
9:00 p.m.—Career Hour 
10:00 p.m.—RCA Victor
Red Seal Hour 
11:00 p.m.—News 
11:05 p.m.—Night Train 
11:55 p.m.—Sign Oil
Wednesday
7:30 a.m.—Music in the 
Morning 
8:00 a.m.—World and
Campus News 
8:10 a.m.—Music in the Morning 
9:00 a.m.—Sign Off 
7:00 p.m.—Sign On, News 
7:15 p.m.—Interlude 
7:30 p.m.—Montovani Time 
8:00 p.m.—A Musical History 
9:00 p.m.—Career Hour 
10:00 p.m.—RCA VictorRed Seal Hour 
11:00 p.m.—News 
11:05 p.m.—Night Train 
11:55 p.m.—Sign Off
Thursday
7:30 a.m.—Music in the 
Morning 
8:00 a.m.—World and
Campus News 
8:10 a.m.—Music in the 
Morning 
9:00 a.m.—Sign Off 
7:00 p.m.—Sign On. News 
7:15—Serenade in Blue 
7:30 p.m.—Radio Federation 
8:00 p.m.—Ye Olde
Curiosity Shoppe 9:00 p.m.—Career Hour 
10:00 p.m.—RCA Victor
Red Seal Hour 
11:00 p.m.—News 
11:05 p.m.—Night Train 
11:55 p.m.—Sign Off
Friday
7:30 a.m.—Music in the 
Morning 
8:00 a.m.—World and
Campus News 8:10 a.m.—Music in the 
Morning 
9:00 a.m.—Sign Off 
7:00 p.m.—Sign On, News 
7:15 p.m.—Star Time 
7:30 p.m.—Radio Federation 8:30 p.m.—Interlude 
9:00 p.m.—Career Hour 
10:00 p.m.—RCA Victor 
Red Seal Hour 
11:00 p.m.—News 
11:05 p.m.—TGIF Club 
11:55 p.m.—Sign Off Saturday 
9:00 p.m.—Sign On, Reverie 11:00 p.m.—News 
11:05 p.m.—Reverie 
11:55 p.m.—Sign Off
Sunday
1:45 p.m.—Sign On, News 
2:00 p.m.WRCT Symphony 
Hour
3:00 p.m. Sunday Pops 
Concert 5:30 p.m..—So Proudly 
We Hail 6:00 p.m.—News 
6:05 p.m.—Album of 
Favorites 
7:00 p.m.—Penthouse 
Serenade 
8:00 p.m.—Free Lance 
8:30 p.m.—Concert Hall 11:00 p.m.—News 
11:05 p.m.—Night Train 
11:55 p.m.—Sign Off Monday 
7:30 a.m.—Music in the 
Morning 
8:00 a.m.—World and
Campus News 
8:10 a.m.—Music in the 
Morning 
9:00 a.m.—Sign Off 
7:00 p.m.—Sign On, News 
7:15 p.m.—interlude 
7:30 p.m.—Radio
Federation 
8:30 p.m.—French
Masterworks 
9:00 p.m.—Career Hour 
10:00 p.m.—RCA Victor
Red Seal Hour 
11:00 p.m.—News 
11:05 p.m.—Night Train
11:55 p.m.—Sign Off
Something new has been added at WRCT—a 
give away program. Every Monday, Wednesday, 
and Friday nights on NIGHT TRAIN, a free carton 
of LUCKY STRIKES will be given to the winner. 
All he has to do is name the cor feet title of the 
mystery melody and call in to the radio station. 
The number is SC. 1-4503. The first person to make 
the call and give the correct answer becomes the 
recipiant of the carton.
WRCT is also planning to broadcast all the home 
games, and there is a possibility that it will carry 
the away games in the near future. This will 
provide the students who cannot rriake it to the 
games a chance to keep abreast of their team’s 
progress.
On December 12 the Techites will have an 
opportunity to hear Handel’s MESSIAH, for the 
station is going to present it on records. However, 
the time is not yet definite.

---------------------------------------------------

Tuesday, December 7, 1954—CARNEGIE TARTAN—Page 5
MIS FIFTH SEASOMAT THE HELM 
THE EX-TAftTAH 4TULETE HAS A 
^OOD RECOB.D AS A COACH 
JN A &t> 1TIOM Tt> HIS BASK£r- 
ftALL COACUIMC* DUTIES MEL 
IS TECU* ATHi-EnC DIRECTOR
(2 RMSLIÏScores Seventeen 
To Halt Tartans
By JIM LACEY
The towering West Virginia 
Mountaineers led by showboat 
“Hot Rod” Hundley edged past 
the Carnegie Tech Tartans 68-60 
at Skizo gym.
Coach Fred Schaus called on 
Hundley in both halves to go in 
and stave off the Tartan’s rally. 
Both times he was successful and 
for the short time he was in the 
game he scored 17 points to lead 
both teams.
Early in the game it looked like 
Tech was going to pull an upset 
as they went ahead 5-0 on foul 
shots by Boyd and Frank. Pete 
White dumped a bucket in for the 
Mountaineers for their first score. 
Tech maintained a slim lead for 
seven minutes of the half. White’s 
basket then tied .things at eleven 
all. After a 16-16 deadlock West 
Virginia moved out in front and 
was never headed, although Tech 
drew within three points, at one 
time.
The Tartans put on a small rally 
at the begining of the second half 
as A1 Frank, who played a terrific 
game, was sweeping the back­
boards. A basket by Frank, and 
two foul shots, a two-pointer by 
Miller, and Pete White’s “tap in” 
in the wrong basket brought the 
score to 43-38; but the Tartans 
could get no closer.
Hundley then came in to put 
down this rally and West Virginia 
pulled away to a 19 point lead to 
put the game on “ice,” though 
the Tartans came on with a rush 
to make the game close.
Tech’s fighting spirit just 
couldn’t match WVU’c height, 
with the Mountaineers taking two 
and three shots to one for the 
Scots. West Virginia’s starting 
[Continued on page 6]
Basketball Action
but for the Indians it was too lit­
tle too late. Tech’s sharpshooters 
had amassed a total of 44 points 
in the second half and brought
their shooting average up to 35 per cent.Coaching Staff
Good Start
TECH INDIANA
G. F. P. G. F. P.Fieler, f 7 0 14 Corssan, f 8 7 23
Boyd, f 4 3 11 Laughlin, f 5 3 13Frank, c 2 2 6 Farab, c 0 2 2
Mocker, g 5 4 14 Cacalero, g 5 2 12Dosey, g 3 5 11 Bradley, g 0 0 0
Miller, g 4 2 10 Stover, f 10 2
Gaetz.c 3 17 Persuitte, c 1 0 2
Nathans’n, g 0 0 OjMcCrackn, g 1 3 5
Karlic, f 0 0 OjNusser, f 0 0 0
Visconti, g 0 0 Oi Sharp, g 0 0 0Sobolwski, c 0 0 0|Lang, f 0 0 01
Totals 28 17 73| Totals 21 17 59 
TECH 29 44—73
INDIANA 28 31—59
Personal fouls: Tech (14)—Fieler, Boyd, 
Frank, Mocker 4, Dosey 2, Miller, Goetz 
2, Karlic, Visconti. Indiana (17)—Cros- 
san 2, Laughlin 4, Farah, Cavalero 2, 
Bradley, Nusser, Stover, Persuitte, Mc­Cracken 3.
Missed free throws: Tech (12)—Fieler, 
Boyd 2, Frank 3, Mocker 2, Dosey, Miller, 
Goetz 2. Indiana (7)—Crossan 1, Laugh- Hn 2, Cavalero 2," Nusser, McCracken.
Referee: Dick Phillips. Umpire: Nick 
Jacob';.
, AND HOW IT STARTED. Tomy Caoraln’sr says:
“I’ve wanted to be an editor ever since I worked on a boy’s magazine 
at age 8. After being an editor of the Dartmouth literary magazine (The Dart)* 
I set my sights on Esquire. It took 18 years of hard work to achieve 
the editorship — after struggling as a newsmagazine cub, cartoon and 
essay writer, advertising copy writer and trade paper editor.”
"I sfarfed smoking camels 
IQ. years ago. I'v/eiiled many 
other brands, buf my choice 
always is Camel. Mo other brand 
is so mild-yefso rioh-fastinqJ
Editor of Esquire Magazine
START
SMOKING
CAMELS
YOURSELF!
Make the 30-Day 
Camel Mildness 
Test. Smoke 
only Camels 
for 30 days!
SUCCESS STORY:
Camels — America’s most 
popular cigarette . . .by far!
B. J. Reynold# Tobacco Co., Winston Salem, N. C.
Smoke Camels ^°r moie pme

---------------------------------------------------

Pag:« 6—CARNEGIE TARTAN—Tuesday, December 7, 1954
In the Stocking
under the Jree _
HA !J- NO SELF-RESPECTING ) HELICOPTER WOULD GO ( •JOY-riding with LOOSE. DANDRUFF//-GET WILDROOT CREAM-OIL, CHARLIE"-. *
J BUT THAT MY NAME IS FOSDICK 
WOULD BE ^ AND YOU WILL NOTE 
ILLEGAL.'f-MY I HOW NON-ALCOHOUf 
NAME IS rf WILDROOT CREAM- 
1 ORSONir I OIL KEEPS MY HAIR 
I NEAT BUT NOT r
o ScabrdnB
SHOOT YOU IN THE k GAS-TANK.7'
GCT tosTir- I'M JUST A *- FUN-LOVING H EL (COPTER.T
Coaching—
[Continued from page 5] 
West Virginia team, a Tech record 
which still stands, although it has 
been tied once.
A native of Glenwillard, Pa., 
Cratsley graduated from Findlay 
High School, Imperial, in 1935. He 
received a Bachelor of Science de­
gree in mechanical engineering 
from Carnegie in 1940. After grad­
uation he worked two years as a 
foreman at Carnegie-Illinois Steel 
Corporation, then served in the 
U. S. Navy in the Pacific. Upon 
completion of his Naval duties he 
returned to Carnegie-Illinois 
where he remained until 1949. 
After serving as assistant basket­
ball coach in the 1947-48 season, 
he was made head coach at the 
beginning of the 1949 fall semester.
Irwin Fassinger
Moe Fassinger, as he is known 
around Tech, is Mel Cratsley’s 
right-hand man and this year is 
assistant basketball coach. Moe is 
considered one of the best judges 
of good basketball in the Pitts­
burgh area. During the 1947-48 
season he was chief scout for Du- 
quesne when Chick Davies’ squad 
was among the country’s best.
Moe was an active player for the 
South Hills High School team dur­
ing the early thirties, and then 
participated in the Pittsburgh 
“Muny” league for several years. 
When war came Moe coached the 
38th Transportation Carrier 
Squadron Team, and then moved 
to the coaching spot at St. Casi- 
mir’s High School for the 1946-47 
season.
Michael Theodore
Mike is beginning his third year 
as freshman basketball coach at 
Tech. He graduated from Tech as 
a chemical engineer in 1950, and 
established a brilliant career in 
basketball. He was captain of the 
team his last three years in school 
and holds a number of school rec­
ords. Mike works as an engineer 
at Mine Safety Appliance Com­
pany.
WVA—
[Continued from page 5]
lineup consisted of Whiting, 6-7, 
Begines, 6-6, and White 6-5, lead­
ing the “height ’ parade.
Hundley led the Mountaineers 
with 17 points followed by White 
with 15 and Bergines with 13. 
Tech’s high man was Frank with 
1 15.
Pledges
Campus Chest pledges must 
be in the Cashier’s Office no 
later than Monday, December 
13, 1954.
FOR COMPLETE 
HARDWARE, PAINT, and 
GIFT SELECTIONS 
• TRY US FIRST •
C kland Hardware
3606 Forbes St. - MA 1-0923
One Stop 
Service
SHIRTS
WASHED and 
PRESSED ON OUR 
NEW PRESSES
ROUGH DRY LAUNDRY 
DRY CLEANING
One Hour Service 
If Desired
ALL WORK DONE ON 
OUR PREMISES
CAMPUS
Cleaners
4609 Forbes St.
WEST VIRGINIA 1 CARNEGIE TECH!Fg.Ft.Pts.:Fg.Ft.Pts.Bergines3814Fieler21 5White5214!Mocker26 10Whitting102 Frank47 15Spadafore044 Dosey43 11Holt204 Boyd05 5Hundley6517 ¡Miller20 4Mullins044 Goetz26 10Kishbaugh204Laneve000
King01i!Constantine 000
Cottle204:j
Totals222468 i Totals2628 60Half-time score—Tech 30, West Vir­
ginia 40.
Tech Athletes Honored
Tech presented three awards to honor its athletes: the Buddy 
Overend Football Trophy, named for the long-time athletic director 
at Tech, and the Varsity Clan awards for football and cross country.
Eddie Miller, who helped Tech to an undefeated football season, 
was awarded both the Overend*
Award and the Varsity Clan 
Award. The Overend Trophy is 
symbolic of the outstanding foot­
ball player of the year as voted 
by the coaches. It is presented an­
nually and Miller will have his 
name engraved on the permanent 
trophy located in the Tech Ath­
letic Office.
The Varsity Clan Award is pre­
sented to the player considered 
most valuable by his teammates.
These two honors plus the fact 
that Miller was chosen by the
newspapermen’s Monday Quarter­
back Club as Tech’s “most valu­
able” player gives the little half­
back a clean sweep for the year.
Mai Gillies 
Meantime, Mel Cratsley an­
nounced that Mai Gillies, the “old 
reliable” of the harriers, was the 
recipient of Varsity Clan’s annual 
cross country award.
Gillies, who is now training for 
the track season, was selected by 
his teammates as the most valu­
able runner on the squad.
Both Gillies and Miller will have 
their names engraved on gold 
plates. These will be added to the 
huge plaque donated by Tech’s 
varsity clan last year for the pur­
pose of giving recognition to the 
most valuable players in every 
sport.
In the Press’s annual All-Dis­
trict Class B selection, Tech placed 
two of its gridders on the first 
team. Tackle Frank Wengrzyn and 
Halfback Eddie Miller, standouts 
from Tech’s first undefeated team, 
were on the first team, while 
teammates A1 Schell, center, and 
Bud Karcher, guard, were placed 
on second and third string, respec­
tively.
Of the entire 11 All-District 
Class B first teamers, only Wen­
grzyn, was a repeater from last 
season’s top unit.
J - THAT'S ANYFACE MASTER OFA MILLION DISGUISES' 
RKLEASE THAT GIRL. ,VOU BRAZEN CRIMINAL. OR
*^FARLtSS^oSDICKMY NAME IS FOSDICK, 
AND YOU WILL NOTEby AL CAPP
SAVt ME.V-I'M THAT'SBEING KIDNAPPED BY » NO A HELICOPTER.'.' —J HELICOPTER»/
CZr ALCOHOLIC TONICS DRYING OUT YOUR SCALP ? GET NON-ALCOHOLIC ? WILDROOT CREAM-OIL.. CHARLIE
The Most Popular 
2-Way Cigarette
(Regular & King Size) 
for every smoker on your list!
‘‘HOME FOR CHRISTMAS”-Gift package 
of the season—colorful—attractive—designed by 
the famous artist, Stevan Dohanos. Remember 
all your smoking friends with the gift that really 
satisfies—Chesterfields. Best to give—best to smoke.
B’mdemoAamty for a Happy Holiday

---------------------------------------------------

f LUCKY 
[STRIKE]
Tuesday, December 7, 1954—CARNEGIE TARTAN—Page 7
* ilr//#_
yili Tom 
_____________ " ^
? Page edited by Evening School Students of the Carnegie Insti­
tute of Technology.
Editor...........................................................................................Dolores Neff
Managing Editor ..................................................................... Victor Sabol
Circulation Manager ...............................................................James Soltis
Reporters ........................................... Kathy Galligan, Edna Thorwart
Fraternities, Sororities 
Plan Christmas Events
Phi Nu fraternity is holding a dinner and Monte Carlo party at 
the Carnegie Union, on Saturday evening, December 11, 1954. We 
hope to see all Phi Nu members on this evening. We promise you 
an evening of fun, laughs, and entertainment.
Sigma Delta Phi fraternity
hold their annual Christmas party 
on December 18, 1954 at the 
Terrace. Dinner will be served 
6:30. You’ll have a choice of ham, 
turkey, chicken or steak. After 
dinner, there’ll be a. floor show, the 
grab bag, and dancing. A turnout 
of about 50 members is expected.
Phi Gamma Pi sorority is hold­
ing its annual Christmas party on 
December 12, 1954 at the Carnegie 
Union. Guests for the afternoon 
will be 30 little boys and girls from 
the Holy Family Orphanage. Santa 
Claus will be there to give each 
child his Treasure Box. Lois Con­
ley and Bernice Cieciera are in 
charge of the refreshments which 
will be served afterwards.
Newman Holiday 
Meeting Is Sunday
The December meeting of the 
Newman Club will be held on Sun­
day evening, December 12, 1954, 
at 7:30 p.m. at the Carnegie Un­
ion. The guest speaker will be Fr. 
J. Regis \Berkmyre, Chaplain of 
the Evening School Newman Club. 
He will give a short and inspiring 
talk on “God’s Laws and Us.” It 
is hoped that all Newman Club 
members will attend.
Christmas
The annual Christmas as­
sembly will be held in the Lit­
tle Theater on Tuesday, De­
cember 14 at 11:00 a.m. This 
is the annual Christmas chapel 
and will include selections by 
the Cameron Choir.
CUDDLE BRENDEL
1216 Wood Run Ave.
off Brighton
Dancing Friday and Saturday 
Jack Mahon and Orchestra
LET'S GO TO
ISA L YS
Milk Shakes 
Big Ice Cream Cones 
Klondikes 
Tasty Lunches
5808 FORBES STREET
SQUIRREL. HILL
3714 FORBES STREET
OAKLAND
Three Stores in the College 
District
Maint Plant:
3380 BLVD. of the ALLIES
tti Dinner 
eld At Union
On Sunday evening, November
21, the Newman Club held a most 
successful spaghetti dinner at the 
Carnegie Union. The “Maitre de 
Cuisine” consisted of Vic Sabol 
and Vince Golobic, who surprised 
almost everyone with their culi­
nary artistry. We understand that 
neither one of these fellows had
‘Of Mice And Men9 
Now Playing At 
Pgh. Playhouse
Now in its second week at the 
Pittsburgh Playhouse is the out­
standing production “Of Mice and 
Men” by John Steinbeck. Because 
of the great interest in the play, 
the Playhouse once again wishes 
to make clear to the people of 
Pittsburgh and surrounding areas 
that the Playhouse is a civic the­
ater and is open to the general 
public.
Periodically the question arises 
as to whether the Playhouse is 
open to Playhouse members. This 
fact is true of the Restaurant which 
is run as a club at the Playhouse. 
But the Playhouse Theaters, both 
the Craft Avenue and the Hamlet 
Street show places, are open to 
anyone and tickets can be obtained 
by calling the Playhouse box-office.
“Of Mice and Men” will run at 
the Pittsburgh Playhouse’s Craft 
Avenue Theater through December
11, 1954.
ever cooked spaghetti before. Their 
able assitants were Kathy Galli­
gan, Edna Thorwart and Bill Bond.
Along with the spaghetti, a de­
licious salad, ice cream, cookies 
and candy were served. After din­
ner, everyone adjourned to the 
recreation room for dancing and 
singing. A gay time was had by 
all in attendance. Another affair 
of this type is being planned for 
the immediate future.
IT’S ON 
ITS WAY. 
DON’T 
MISS ITU
Xmas Meeting 
Will Be Held
The Evening Student Council 
has been granted permission to 
hold a student assembly on Friday, 
December 17, 1954 in the Carnegie 
Theatre in the Fine Arts Building. 
Evening classes will be suspended 
from 8:00 p.m. to 8:50 p.m. in or­
der to permit undergraduate stu­
dents and faculty to attend. Dr. 
Warner will speak at this assem­
bly. A special invitation is ex­
tended to all instructors to attend 
along with their student groups.
Netv English Lit 
Course Offered 
In Night School
A varied and interesting selec­
tion of novels, obtainable in inex­
pensive pocket editions, will be 
discussed by Mr. Beekman W. 
Cottrell, instructor in the depart­
ment of English. These classes will 
be held next semester on Mondays 
and Fridays from 7:00 to 8:2C p.m. 
in AH 237A.
Mr. Cottrell taught at Long Is­
land University and the University 
of Kentucky. He was a statistical 
assistant and translator in the U.S. 
State Department in Paris, France 
before coming to Carnegie Tech.
His wide and varied experiences 
will make his discussions of these 
novels full of interest for every 
student. It is hoped that enough 
people will sign up to make this 
course no-^ib10.
mri-C*k BoMttBf C*„ Mtokwih 1«, P».
WHAT’S THIS?
For solution see paragraph below. Droodle 
submitted by Michael Gross, C.C.N.Y.
PICTURE OF TOUCHDOWN 
REFEREE IN 
PHOTOGRAPHER’S WAY
Marcia Ruhl St. Cloud S.T.C.
DACHSHUND PASSING 
DOGHOUSE SEEN BY 
BROTHER INSIDE
Emily Schafer West Virginia University
NIGHT TABLE 
FOR UPPER BUNK
Leon Hodge University of FloridaCOLLEGE SMOKERS PREFER Luckies—and by a wide 
margin—according to the largest and latest coast-to-coast 
college survey. Once again, the No. 1 reason: Luckies taste 
better. They taste better because Lucky Strike means fine 
tobacco. Then, that tobacco is toasted to taste better. 
“It’s Toastedthe famous Lucky Strike process — tones 
up Luckies’ light, good-tasting tobacco to make it taste 
even better. The pleasure you’ll get from Luckies’ better 
taste is vividly depicted in the Droodle above, titled: 
Modem artist enjoying Lucky while glancing in mirror. 
See the ecstatic smile? Well, you, too, can be happy. 
Just go Lucky!
"Bette* taste Luckies...
LUCKIES TASTE BEVTER
CLEANER, FRESHER, SMOOTHER!
FISH COMMITTING SUICIDI 
BY ATTACHING 
SELF TO BALLOON
Jerry Gray 
University of California
STUDENTS!
EARN $25!
Lucky Droodles* are pouring in! Where are yours? We oay 
$25 for all we use, and for many we don’t use. So send every 
original Droodle in your noodle, with its descriptive title, 
to Lucky Droodle, P.O. Box 67, New York 46, N.Y. 
*DROODLES# Copyright 1953, by Roger Price
©A.T. Co. product of J^n&u&tKn, America’s leading manufacturer of cigarettes

---------------------------------------------------

Pasc 8—CARNEGIE TARTAN—Tuesday, December 7, 1954
Statements-
[Continued from page 3] 
to keep more students at the 
dances I suggest better name 
bands, entertainment, and adver­
tisements which would profit 
these functions in the long run.
I find that the concensus of 
opinion among girls and most fra­
ternity men concerning float pa­
rades, is that they would rather 
have them than costume parades. 
In the long run, the best looking 
costume parades took just as 
much time and money as former 
float parades. Also, the parade was 
too much load on sororities, with 
Queen campaign and roller skat­
ing competition. Therefore, I’m 
in favor of having float parades 
instead of a costume parade.
Varsity athletics have been em­
phasized more this year than for­
merly, and should continue so to a
brought this to mind was the 
pep rally after Tech’s undefeated 
football season. The administra­
tion breaking away from previous 
ruling that there snould be no 
pep rallies, allowed this one, as 
a trial. Student Council, whose re­
sponsibility this is, was not of­
ficially informed at all about the 
event. When students went down 
to Pitt, breaking a pact Student 
Council had made (other than the 
one with Pitt) and going against 
administration orders, the admin­
istration took over an investiga­
tion of the matter.
It is this sort of issue 
which should definitely come 
under Student Council’s juris­
diction. If the student body does 
not abide by Student Council reg­
ulations, it may be that Student 
Council lacks sufficient authority. 
In matters of this sort, and in 
other issues where the studentcertain degree. Carnegie Tech is , ,
a technological school and there ! bodï “ dlrect y concerned, such
will always be a limit to colleges 
which we play. Tech’s team should 
play good ball, pay reasonable 
scholarships, but stay within our 
league and not compete against 
“big leagues.”
These are my ideas. How about 
yours? “The rabbit” would appre­
ciate your vote.
Barbara Kerr, Home Economics, 
Junior: Results of last year’s in­
vestigation of Carnegie Tech by 
the Middle Atlantic Council on 
College Education showed that a 
weak and unauthoritative Student
as both varsity and intramural 
sports, the Student Council should 
have a definite say, for the coun­
cil is representative of the stu­
dent body and has the interests 
of the student body in mind.
Susan Treon, Home Economics, 
Junior: There are many budding 
ideas hidden in the minds of the 
majority of Tech students, which 
would really put a spark in our 
school politics. I feel that as many 
of these feelings as possible should 
be brought to the Student Council’s 
attention. This is why I want to 
be a member of Student Council.Council existed on our campus. ^ ,
Carnegie Tech must join the oth- j ? *an\to helP trJ. uto find *ha? 
er colleges throughout the coun-! hld(*en \v^re wh‘ch,our schooT1 try which have effective student ! needs- At this Point, however, I 
governments. ! am supposed to reveal some of
Difficulty lies not with the past 1 ^ own> not too secret, senti- 
or present Council personnel, but 
with pressure from groups out­
side the student body. Council 
must be able to enforce its ap­
proved constitution and not be 
subject to the whims of these 
“pressure groups.”
Members in this organization 
must be willing to support stu­
dent opinion in order to uphold 
true democracy. I shall endeavor 
to represent the student body by 
carrying out their wishes and 
helping to make Student Council a 
strong and respected organization.
Eileen Landay, Science, Sopho- 
More: As a candidate for Student 
Council Representative, my plat­
form i^as follows:
1. Fraternity bars should not be 
closed on the night of an all­
school affair. It seems to me that 
in the past, Student Council has 
taken an unrealistic attitude to­
ward this problem by assuming 
that fraternity men will rush to 
all-school functions just because 
the bar at their house has been 
closed. If this is the main reason 
for a poor turn-out at dances, 
mixers, etc., then how does S.C. 
explain the unsatisfactory attend­
ance at football games, or on the 
other hand, the maximum crowds 
that attend drama department 
presentations, ev<ya on Friday and 
Saturday nights?
2. Whether or not freshman reg­
ulations should be abolished, re­
vised, or allowed to remain the 
same should be decided by the 
students themselves by way of a 
vote. Student Council can help by 
letting the students know _ the 
original purpose of freshman reg­
ulations, and by pledging its 
wholehearted support when a de­
cision is finally reached. The pres­
ent regulations, as they are being 
enforced, are weakening Student 
Council, Cwens, and Scimitars, 
and are teaching the freshmen 
that “anything goes” as far as 
these organizations are concern­
ed.
3. The float parade should be 
revived, for it is as important a 
part of Tech life as Homecoming 
displays or Greek Sing. The float 
parade was a project which cre­
ated a feeling of pride and co­
operation among many students. 
Th is is something we should en­
courage, not try to abolish. ^
Stephanie Mackay, General Sci­
ence, Sophomore: It has long
Secretary
Mollie Rudy, Secretarial Studies; 
Junior: Fraternity Bar Closing
Motion—
My proposed plan is to have the 
individual organization which is 
sponsoring an affair publicize it as 
much as possible by posters, an­
nouncements, and notices to the 
various fraternity houses. Student 
Council would cooperate by closing 
all fraternity bars that night until 
11 o’clock. The organization should 
then take stock of what it has to 
offer at the dance. If it plans to 
engage a mediocre local band be­
cause it is “cheap,” it can plan on 
poor attendance. However, if a 
well-known orchestra with some 
style and appeal is to play, I’m 
sure the attendance will be better.
I would also like to add that I 
feel there are too many organiza­
tions which are holding so-called 
been a complaint on Tech’s cam- j “all-school functions.” I don’t 
pus that Student Council is not think that a group of 20 or 25 peo- 
the powerful legislative body that 
it rightfully should be, and that
ments.
What about closing fraternity 
bars on the nights of all school 
functions? Well, let’s face it—if 
the bars were closed, most of 
Tech would head for the nearest 
dive during these functions. How­
ever, if the decision should fall 
in favor of closing the bars, all of 
the aforesaid functions should 
have as much interest and attrac­
tion as a bottle of beer to keep 
the students on campus.
Ah yes, the controversial float 
parade. If not floats—something. 
There is a torrent of competition 
boiling around our school. This 
whirlpool must have an outlet. No 
matter how small or innocently a 
contest may start, it will in the 
end be the size of che float 
parades. It’s biological. Why don’t 
we start out with something that 
will satisfy the competitive forces 
that drive our school?
Freshman regulations? Some­
thing should definitely be done. 
The freshman too soon forgets 
that he is a freshman. Tne old 
tradition of a freshman’s life is 
slowly passing away at Tech. Reg­
ulations for these delightful new­
comers should be continued and 
tightened. The freshman will en­
joy his duties and a deep school 
spirit will be off on a kangaroo 
leap.
These are some of my ideas. 
What are yours? That is what I 
hope to find out.
the administrative exercises too 
tight a contol over campus ac­
tivities. A recent issue which
pie has a right to call their affairs 
“all-school.” With this thought in 
mind, I am sure we can cut down 
on the number of these functions.
Class Officers—Abolishing class
officers was a very smart move. 
The class officers only held titles 
and they did nothing for their class 
in so far as handling class parties 
or dances. I think it is pretty ob­
vious that the only time each class 
works together is during orienta­
tion and at graduation.
Freshman Regulations—As I see 
it, freshman r egulations are a 
must. If the sophomore, junior, 
and senior classes would cooper­
ate with Student Cbuncil, I think 
the regulations could do some good.
| I’m not advocating harshness or 
penalty but I do think that the en­
couragement of upperclassmen 
would add a great deal. After all, 
the regulations were composed for 
the purpose of acquainting the 
freshmen with college traditions 
and as far as I’m concerned, fresh­
man regulations are a tradition.
Grace Sherman, Secretarial 
Studies, Junior: In my opinion 
freshman regulations should be 
built up bigger with the fresh­
man. For one thing the dink- 
wearing period is too long. The 
novelty and enthusiasm wears off 
the last few weeks. Perhaps a 
shorter period could be arranged 
in which both the freshmen and 
upperclassmen go all out to get 
acquainted.
The Student Council could play 
a big part in getting the upper­
classmen to cooperate. They 
should make the freshmen feel 
proud of wearing their dinks and 
being a part of Camegje Tech.
Along with this pride of CIT 
should be a pride in our varsity 
athletic teams. We have a good 
start in our winning football team. 
School spirit is at an all time high. 
It would be nice if we could sup­
port our basketball team as well. 
Varsity athletics, I feel, shouldn’t 
be de-emphasized. Rather we 
should build up school support to
show the teams we’re behind them 
and appreciate their caring 
enough to play a good game.
Printing
James Foit, Printing, Freshman:
In a recent issue of the Tartan it 
was pointed out that a committee 
of sudents picked from different 
activities and college groups on 
campus was to make a study of 
student life on the campus. These 
Students were arbitrarily picked 
from the various groups. It seems 
to be unnecessary to do this as 
the groups are already repre­
sented in Student Council, and the 
job of making this study fits into 
the work of Student Council. To 
pick a group like this when there 
is already one organized that is 
in a better position to carry out 
the requirements, is completely 
unnecessary. In undertaking this 
survey Student Council, along with 
the various activities in question, 
would be greatly strengthened.
In dealing with the 3 main 
problems confronting student 
council, at the present, I feel that:
1. The closing of fratenrity bars 
on nights of all-school functions 
is not the solution to the problem.
2. The plans for the pact between 
CIT and Pitt is the best idea for 
ending the raids between the 
schools. 3. The new student union 
is definitely needed and would be 
beneficial to all Tech students.
Paul Vaga, Printing, Sopho­
more: The closing of fraternity 
bars probably won’t have much 
effect on attendance at all-school 
social functions because of several 
reasons: (1) Only about one-third 
of the male students belong to 
fraternities; (2) Most of the fra­
ternity men would go to the all­
school function even if their bars 
were open.*'
He never dreamed he’d save so much 
going home by GREYHOUND
, - One WayAkron, O..........................$ 2.80
Baltimore, Md.............. 5.90
Buffalo, N. Y.................. 5.90
Canton, 0...................... 2.35
Cleveland, 0................ 3.20
Columbus, O. ................ 4.40
Detroit, Mich............... 6.75
Erie, Pa.......................... 3.65
Gettysburg, Pa............ 4.50
Harrisburg, Pa............. 5.25
One WayIndianapolis, Ind..........$ 8.25
Louisville, Ky................ 9.85
Mansfield, 0................ 3.80
New York City........... 9.50
Norfolk, Ya...................10.80
Philadelphia, Pa.......... 7.40
Parkersburg, W. Ya. .. 4.25
Washington, D. C......... 6.30
Winston Salem, N. C. . 12.50 
Youngstown, 0............ 1.60
Plus U. S. Tax. Big EXTRA Savings EACH WAY on Round-Trips.
GREYHOUND TERMINAL
Liberty Avenue and Grant Street Phone: GRant 1-5700
G RfTHOUN
Freshman regulations were iru 
effective this year due to lack of 
interest and support on the part 
of upperclassmen and the admin­
istration. Passing rules wont help 
the situation at all unless they are 
backed up by the upperclassmen 
and policed by the administra­
tion.
A new student union is a neces­
sity and the proposed fee is rejD 
sonable, but all organizations that 
will use it should also give some 
financial support.
The school is providing quite 
adequately fo the intramural pro­
gram—Student Council shouldn’t 
be concerned with it.
Our varsity teams should play 
teams from other small schools— 
avoid the big-time, because we 
haven’t a large enough student 
body to support or produce bifr 
time teams. But there is no rea­
son why we can’t go all-out in 
support (including rallies) of the 
teams and help them win in their 
respective leagues.
firalàd
go Home
€
Beats th* stuffing out of other
transportation! Storms can’t can­
cel your trip. Traffic jams can’t 
make you miss vacation dates, or 
get you back to the campus late. 
And it’s more fun traveling by 
train with yourjirowd, enjoying 
swell dining car meals en route.
Save 25% or More *
And this is gravy I Travel home 
and back with two or more friends 
on Group Coach Tickets. On most 
trips of 100 miles or more, you 
each save 25% of usual round-trip 
rate. Still better, gather 25 or 
more to travel long-distance to­
gether on the frame homeward 
train. Then return singly or to^ 
gether, and each save 28% of th< 
regular coach round-trip fare.
Got ths Full Facts from 
Your Railroad Tickst Agsnt 
Well In Advancs
Eastern
Railroads
