W?,r»TjWqBSSPg*?
Men'must lje at liberty to 
gay inprint whatever they 
have in mind to say, pro­
vided it wrongs no one.
CHARLES A. DANA
Today's Editorial». ¦>¦¦¦
Those Who Foil by the 
Waypide 
Cause. of. the .Chanty Ball 
How Shall \^e Regard 
Regulations? <
VOL. 29, NO, 4CARNEGIE INSCITÜTE OF TËGHNOtOGY, PITTSBURGH, PA.TUESDAY, OCT. 16, 1934
Plans Formed 
For Reunion 
Of Carnegie 
Clans Oct.
Undergraduates Urged 
To Aid Committee, 
Act as Hosts
Brashear Plaque 
Will Be Unveiled
Faculty Receplion Planned, 
Fraternities to Entertain 
Alumni Friday Night
The committee in charge of the Annual Alumni Homecoming is inching: extensive plans for the re­union to be held .October 26 and 27 on the campus. The planners, urge Carneglo undergraduates to participate in a number of the af­fairs, acting as hosts to the v 1611- jDg alumni.. W? previous years,'par­ticipation by the student body has nol been requested, but' the com­mittee believes that, since many of tho events; such as the class plate presentation and the parade, are exercises of history and back­ground, they should be of interest to all students. . .. -The class plate presentation ccremooies ol the class of 1934, will be held In the Administration Building Friday, October 26, atP, M., at whichthe
of the plate, the ceremonies will include the unveiling of a bronze plaque oE Dr. Brashear, and the call and. recognition of all former classes. The Men's and Women’s Glee Club will present a program of songs at ibis ceremony.Parade Will Feature One of the new features of this year’s homecoming, will- be a pa­rade from the Inn to the Adminis­tration Building for. the exercises. The’parade will consist of the
of thè R. O. T.' C. group, and the studentmembers : of -the ,'v.
sort are usually the feature events In the alumni homecomings of many;, eastern- colleges, at which time great student interest is dis­
played./.Alumni Tour CollegesAnother of the affairs In which the students ate asked to pavticl- pate ia tlie tour of inspection of the campus after .the plaÿe monies at 3 o'clock. The campus, its class rooms, and laboratories have been improved considerably, since the college days of many of tlie alumni. Any undergraduates who have time are asked to act a: hosts in directing around the cam pus, and helping to. entertain thi guests. ' In order that the alumni may also note the change in facul­ty in the various colleges, an hour is set aside in "which the membera of the faculties of the various col­leges will be assembled in desig­nated rooms convenient for the reception of the alumni.Doth undergraduates and alumni are invited to attend the Purdue game bonfire and Pep Rally li Bowl at 7:15 on Friday, October 26 There 'the alumni will meet Howard Harpster, Don Loyewell, and co-captalns Lewis a'i'id ‘Croft; and nartlclnate in the cheering, singing, and stunts which ar ing arranged.Students belonging to fraterni­ties will entertain alumni at ceptlons at 6:00 o’clockon Friday, and at .dances and smokers In tho evening at 10:30.'
Publications Give 
Tea Dance Wed.
Jim Bray Furnishes Music 
For Afternoon Event
CHAPEL SPEAKER
Dr. Edwin J. Van Etten of Cal- 
ary Episcopal Church V*iU ad­
dress chapel next Tuesday.
Irish Football 
DancePlanned 
For Saturday
Baron Elliot's Orchestra 
Has Been Engaged; 
Novelty Feature .
urday’s .football dance to b'e held In Thistle Hall from 9 till 12 fol­lowing the Carnegie-Notre Dame game.This orchestra featuring the Guy .Lombardo type of music, • has played at several University of Pittsburgh dances and is now play­ing an extended engagement at the Park Casino.Since the alumni are having a dance-at the Hotel, Schenley Sat­urday, October 27, and the frater­nities are all holding smokers of dances for their returning, brotli-
lowe’en. Therefore, th© sponsors of these-dances .propose to. -ílaye thè novelty feature in keeping
Krrther'^nnotfnceraent^ made on cards’, bearing the favor­ite-song of Nôtre Dame,' to be dis­tributed among the student body later in the. week.The novelty for last week’s dance consisted essentially of the drawing of a number from a hat. The hers used were those corresponding lo the coat check numbers in the check room. The man of the cou­ple whose humhev was taken from Lhe hat on the fifth draw received a.pair of field glasses, And the lady of the couple whose number was raken from tlie hat on the tenth draw received a diary. The
First Chapel 
Service To Be 
Next Tuesday
Dr. Edwin J. Van, Etten 
Will Deliver Address 
In Little Theatre
Four Carnegie Professors 
Exhibit Paintings This Year
Professor Kostellow, Speaking of Art International, 
Maintains That Majority Can Appreciate Art 
Without Elaborate Technical Knowledge
Fraternity Group 
Arranges Service
Campus Organizations Are 
In Charge of Meetings 
During Semester
The first chapel of the year will 
be held next Tuesday at 12:30 
o’clock in the Little Theater In the 
College of Fine Arls. Dr. Edwin 
J. Van Etten of the Calvary Epis­copal Church will be the speaker. Dr. Charles Watkins, Director of Margaret Morrison Carnegie Col­lege, will preside in-the absence of President Baker.The service, sponsored by the InterfraternWy Council, la the first of a series planned by the Y. M. C. A. for the first semester. Each service will be sponsored by a dif­ferent organization on the campus. In this way it is hoped .that a great many members of the student body .who have been failing to take ad­vantage of. the prominent and vn rled programs presented will at­tend in all colleges are requested, Freshmen lu all colleges . are re guested to attend.The Department of Music is co: operating with the Interfraternity Council, ánd will furnish the mu­sical part of the service. As yet they have not announced their por­tion of the program but it is ex­pected to be a male trio.
Well-known on Campus
Dr. Van Etten is a popular speak­er around Pittsburgh . and has spoken on the campus at many events. For several years he bus addressed the first chapel service at Carnegie. He is a pioneer of re­ligious broadcasting. He is a mem­ber of Alpha Delta Phi social fra­ternity.Chapel services have been held the. campus for the past thir­teen -years. -These services have
LlH'o^'hear^ pro1^^ men of this city.. On the days when a chapel serv­ice Is being'held, a black flag with
College of Fine Arts.Dr. Van Etten received his Bach­elor of Arts degree from Amherst College in 2905. Six years later he graduated frotn Episcopal Theo­logical Seminary in Cambridge, Mass. He is the recipient of hon­orary degrees of Doctor of Divin-
College Expenses No Longer 
Increasing, Says Ed. Bureau
Scholarships, Loan Funds Amounting to More Than 
$31,500,000 Available This Year to Students; 
Women's Private Colleges Most Costly
Pi Delta Epsilon and Alpha Chi Alpha, men’s and women’s Journal­istic honoraries, will sponsor third tea dance of the seasou morrow afternoon. The dance will he held in Thistle Hall from 4 to 6 o’cloclc. Jim. Bray’s orchestra
student, having, graduated from the Department of Music.. His. orches­tra has played at the Lake Dun- more Ho.tel, Lake Dunmore, Ver-
li.aUdTickets will he twenty-five cents. They may be .obtained from mem­bers of the committee; or at Thistle Hall tomorrows The committee members ' are:. Margaret Griffin’36, president of Alpha Chi Alpha; Veronica" ttloos~' ’3S, "r Madoliu Vautrinot ’35,'James M. Latta ’36, president of Pi Delta Epsilon, Ed­ward E. McDonald, and Richard
be produced by.the Department of ¦Drama, made in the preceding is­sue, the Tartan regrets the omis- .slon of "Love tor Love" by Con­greve. It is being.direeled by vis­iting Professor B. Iden Payne, and
lt.:win,:be presented from October.v
¡.24:to::ao.:
By Irving Gruber
The assumption that college ex­penses hare been -Increasing dur­ing the past few years is not well- founded, as a recent survey made by the United States Office of Edu­cation shows. Tuition rates twenty years ago were relatively low and ¦ so standardized that for a period of fifty years few-changes had been' made. In 1914-15 rates be­gan to be changed upward, and ten years later many tuitions had beeit doubled. .In -1934 tb© highest tui­tion rates, from 5400 to $500 per year, were charged in twenty-five colleges and universities, exclud­ing three technical institutes— Massachusetts Institute' of .Tech-- nology, Stevens Institute of Tech­nology, and Rensselaer Polytech­nic Institute. The increases 'In tuition since 1913 is snown in this summary:
COEDUCATIONAL COLLEGES
MEN’S COLLEGES
- WOMEN’S COLLEGES
These rates show that students in 1913 could attend any college.by paying from $150 to'$200 a year for. tuition, but in 1934 he would have to pay two or three'times as much. Woman's i/alleges -• Eaijv tain: the .highest rates.
Many Tuitions Reduced Thin Is onlv one side of. the "tory- In the publicly controlled institutions, tuitions are free or- halt the ordinary college tuittbn, iff- average $78 per year; rates toanft s
five years. In 125 private colleges, tuitions have been lowered average of $62 per year, and' 1 been raised in 109 schools an a age of $49. Consequently, for country as a whole, the decreases were greater in number and average size than the Increases, 
College officials have estimated
represented in thè
in the Carnegie Institute.
exhibitions, and was awarded the Carnegie iustltute prize 'in 1930; Prof. Kostellow,- whose painting ‘After Dinner,” was given -honora­ble mention lust year in the 1
approach lo art, Prof. Ko3teilow said, "Go and look fpr the things that you like, but,” he added, “don’t go full of prejudices;Majority Appreciate Art When asked whether the major, lly of people were capable of op­iating art, Prof. Kostellow r6r plied, "Absolutely. The minute you express the sllghest amount of aste In choosing or, selecting an irticle for a quality which lies be­yond the utilitarian, you already he^ gin to show certain aesthetic con- :epts.’’ Although a person may lever like a picturo, he is attracted to other objects of beauty which ibody some of the same funda­mental principles that make a pic-
Elaborate technical knowledge unnecessary for appreciation of •t. In the class-room, of course,
!a^ picturo is taken to pieces and 'analyzed bit by bit, but this dissec­tion .helps form the technical
iveloping¡crowd, the spiritual wants with 'elaborate structures and bury your ;own appreciation under the cloal: ;pf the pedantic. Understanding of ;art Is.the product of appreciation.” ¦, A great help in'the appreciation ;of art Is a knowledge of the history !;ot civilization, and. especially of '.the history of artistic expression throughout the ages, Prof. Kostel- :low explained.T ‘‘Don't expect the artist to paint your particular taste,” he then ad­vised. “Something more thnn pop­ular tasto compels him to paint. -Every artist Jn his own. way tries tO; express his concept about life. Art Is a by-product of the artist's expression or emotion, and a crea­tive painting is his reaction to this emotion.”Modern Art V-:To the.question, "Is modern art ahead, of its time?” Prof. Kostel- •iow’s answer was "No. In historical perspective, ait is- neither ahead nor' behind the times, but blonds rjormally into the present, pattern of living.’* Just a$ lhe feet nat­urally take, the load . in walking. However, there are similarly artls-
School Sends 
M. M. Senator 
To Convention
M. Griffin ’35 to Attend 
Meeting of Student 
Council Assoc.
ElectionsDraw 
Great Interest
Irresponsible Reporter 
Reviews Situation -
y look c
freshman year. ' In flfty-I state-controlled institutions, 1 first year student can get along $378, but in thirty-nine- others he must spend from $500 to $300. For privately controlled institutions, the minimum average expense was found to be $901 for women’s col­leges. $318 for men’s colleges, and
Did you note thefar- 
the otherwise ever-near faces of- 
the Arts and . Engineering- crowd 
last week?--: Ajid towaxda'. the y.eiyi, 
offfio ^e‘ek^did'Tou“gaOief that1 the big melal and conerete-men and des artistes were biting their fin­gernails right up, or down, to their elbows? . .. . The answer to all this?
nor yet has prosperity been-sight­ed around any of the local corners, but.ihcrse yearly classic events, the elections, ar^_ again popping up. Yes, mah friends, open season has been declared on “I view with
Everyone was wondering who was going to be elected to the dif­ferent college offices. Many sub­tle hints In the form of printed tickets were given out during the week to assist the wondering stu­dent to make up his . mind. Some of the constituents were looking for radio speeches but none were forthcoming. Deduction: The war chests are empty.This year’s elections seem more important, than ever, and they
men* elected have quite a little 1 say on student activities. O you think without stopping? Should you labor under i'
watch the. Industries weejr. and sea.if they d.w’t. hehfl-ve just-as the Engles and Arties did last week. I am given to under­stand that Industrie's Is planning a real Pittsburgh election. What 1 mean is that they are goirg to be real mysterious this year and sur­round their election with a smoke screen.. What I moan-., is . . well, anyway, a smoker is-planned.All of this Is to impress on your mind, dear reader, the importance of the elections. This beiiig done finish,' because, as the Gov-
Tapers throughout .Lhe country i
freshman per year at Carnegie is
_ budget and from $45 to-.$81 for tlie three, years following', .the Education Office estimated.
Schools Aid.Students Schools throughout the country arc doing their, utmost to aid worthy students,. who, as victims of thb'.depression, might be forced .to. liave college on account of lack of- funds/ Deferred tuitious have helped over 14,000 students to re­main in college: Scholarships and loan funds of .more than .$91,500,000 in; . ill institutions' ate available
ships': equivalent to
western state -^college accepted farm products, in-Dayment. ot tul-. tlon In an effort to keep depression victims In college s
FRESHMAN REPORTERS MEET
Prospective reporters for the Tartan editorial staff morrow afternoon at 4:30 in Room 10C Arts lor-the first séssion of th< in practical journal!is to he conducted by senior staff members.Interested students who liavi as yet signed up for a start position may report tomorrow with the oth^r candidates and be enrolled.
COMING EVENTS
4:00—Publications -Tea Dane« Thistle. Hall. .Thursday—' -,. 4:30^-Cwen Tea—Women’s Club Room. 'Friday—• 12; Ar 'A. meeting—Worn-
Tea-College - of 
Charity
Exhibition Room,Fine- Arts. •' ; 9:00—^WOrne'fi's'1 Guild- -Ball—Thistle Hall;Saturday^....;. ..9:00 ^ Notre Dame Danfce-^Thistle Hall.
Tuesday— -' £ _11:30 — Freshman Class Elec­tions.• .12:30- Chapel-- Little -Theater, College of Fin« Arts
Editors Meet 
In Chicago
N. C.P.A., A.C.P. Have 
Joint Convention
the National Collegiate Press As­sociation and the Associated Col­legiate Press. De Paul Unlv-erslty In Chicago acted as host t
Discussious were carricd ‘‘Round Table’’ sessions,
of-the Chicago other men prominent in journalism addressed the group.A contest to ascertain the most representative college newspapei at the convention was -held. The newspaper' of Virginia Polytech-
by Governor Harry Horner of Illi­
nois. The Carnegie Tartan disqualified from the contest be-have enough is-
Program Lasting 
4 Days Arranged
Philosophy of Student Govt. 
To Be Electing Theme;
4 Main Speakers *
Margaret Griilln '35, vice presi­
dent of the Margaret Morrison 
Senate, will represent Carnegie at 
a session of the Women’s Iutercol- 
leglate Association for Student 
Government, which will meet at 
Allegheny College) Meadvllle, Pa.
It is usually tho custom at Car­
negie for the delegate to this au- 
nual convention to be in ulternato 
years the president of the Women' 
Dormitory Council and the proai­
dent of th.e Margaret Morrison 
Senate. . This year, as Elonuor 
Sherman ’36, president of th‘ Senate, will be unable to attend, MIbs Griilln will take her place.The general theme of the t ferenco will he “The Philosophy of Student Government.” Miss Edith Senrles, head of the women's dent government at'Allegheny and national président of the associa­tion, and Dr. Evelyn Miller, dean of women at Allegheny, have ar­ranged ci four-day program of ad­dresses, business meetings, discus­sion groups; and entertainment.Four Principal Speakers .The four principal speakers and their subjects are: Prof. Sarah M. Sturtevant, head of the depart­ment of student personnel admin­istration, Teachers' College, . Co­lumbia University, ‘The Function of Student Government on Modern College Campîis;” Dean Thyrsa W. Amos, University of Pittsburgh, “The Educational Value of Extra-curricular Activi­ties Among College Women . Stu-dents;” Dean Florence Nícolson¡ 
s-i-ív.- TT ,-T-r-v -r- Ohio Wesleyan University, .."Per-M tio Hotel BUmavck m CMcaeo 80r.nllty AdiiiBimmits Amons Col- \v.eek.1;:to...d.isçii99_^imD.ortanL, .íege'-Wómen' StiÍMiítB-i-^-and^Dóiih'
rorsity, “The Place ot tlie Honor System In Modern Student Gov­ernment.Five student discussion groups
clplinary Function College; "The Town Girl’s Place in Student Government,” Università of Pittsburgh; ‘'Reasons for Point Systems," Hood College; ‘‘Honor Systems," Alfred College; "The Re­lation Between Social and Acrt- démic Standing iii Student Life," Ohio Wesleyan University.Colleges Represented Colleges invited to attend the convention besides Carnegie are; Adelphi College, Alfred University, Rates College, Beaver College, An­tioch College,, Barnard College, Bucknell .University, Connecticut College, Converse College, Dennl- — College, DlcUlnson University,
Hunter College, and Lake Eric
Former Faculty Member Appointed 
To Board Which Replaces Johnson
Second Annual Charity 
Ball Will Take Place' 
In Thistle Hall Friday.
Election Petitions 
AreDue Tomorrow
Candidates for olllces in the freshman class are to be reminded that their petitions, properly signed by tea other
the chairman of the tlons Committee of ' Student Council or left in the Y. M. C. A. olUce no later thnn to­morrow afternoon.Freshman class elections will be conducted in the' three colleges under the su­pervision of Student council Trom 11:30 to 1:30 Tuesday, October 23. A president, sec­retary, and treasurer will be
itfnrgaret Morrison freshmen
Ches 'Walter’s Orchestra 
Is Engaged to Play 
From 9 to 2
Won’t Replace 
Kiltie Band 
Drum Major
Satisfied with Present 
Baton Twirling SayB 
Director Sullivan
Leon Henderson Stimulated 
Classes By Unorthodox 
Teaching Methods
Henderson was brought Carnegie ..from - thfe -University, .ot 'Pennsylvania where, for two years, he had been teaching Industrial management. Here at Carnegie, he served during the school
He aroused considerable com­ment by his unorthodox methods of teaching. He came to Carnegie with idea that being an.assistant professor of industrial economics meant teaching the ' subject in thé most, effective way. For instance, when the course came to a discus­sion, of the I. W. W. or of Com­munism. Mr. Heuderson would buy all. the T. W. W. and Communism reading matter he could find.He thought that by -reading the'se- doctrines in the ' raw,- stu­dents could have the best possi­ble chancy ôf deciding-whether or not they-;'offered an improvement .overvÿtàê; prevailing- or govern­mental systems. Although so>rne people considered this reading of radical .literature to be extremely dangerous, Mr. Henderson-believed
dents In his classes attended ture by Eugene _Debe, the . great Socialist leader. The shocked sur­prise which, greeted this move was onlv relieved .when a checkup prov led Ltbat very : f«w oI those who at
tended showed an active sympathy with Debs’ doctrines.
Active 0ut6lde Classes Outside of classes, Mr. Hender­son was active in the student life of Carnegie. He lived on the cam* pus, helped coach the basketball and officiated at track
budgets, personnel, and a retire­ment system..After leaving'the Plnchot staff, Mr. Henderson was for eight years associated with the Russell Sage
NRA's effect on consumers. Gen‘. Johnson asked him to repeat those criticisms to him personally, and
was later made chief economic ad­viser to Gen. Johnson. •
New Kind' of Braln-Truster Unlike the '.popular idea of a “braln-truster,” Mr. Henderson has nothing of the absent-minded, phil­osophical, or' scholarly air.' He/ is a-stocky, smiling man in his early forties, who likes to put his feet on'his desk ou' occasions, and who can discuss practical problems in ordinary language;He intends to remain with the NRA as long'as'he is needed or
handling of economic" : problems devised in the,world’s history/' tiesays-'' .....— ................-^Today’s problems, the job of
all the.-people.' that can he mad« or this unique and highly valuable
Intimating that 
should mind their own buslnoss, 
Mr. Sullivan, Kiltie bandmaster, 
said that the Tecent agitation^fov 
the removal of Drum-major Sharp 
was entirely unfounded. The agi­
tation arose following the Miami 
pep. rally when Joseph H. Copp ’38 
acted aB drum-major In the ab­
sence of William H. Sharp.
The “pleh^i” as Joseph £opp is 
referred':.to:'on..the campus', gave a
maat'erly.:dl3Play.'of..'.baton,t!wlrllng 
whllo leading the band at the pop 
rally ani^ immediately some began 
to acclaim him drum-major.
Realizing Copp’s' ability \vith the 
baton and the fact that many 
thought; he should k be appointed 
drum-major, Sharp told John Wn- 
genseil ’36. manager of . the band, 
following the Miami gamo that ho 
was willing to step aside in favor 
of the “plebe.”
Sharp Continues In Band 
Mr. Wagenseil spoke to Mr. Sul­
livan . concerning tho action of 
Sharp, and the bandmasLer said 
that regardless what arrangomcnts 
were to be made Sharp should c 
ttnuo as a member of tho band.
In an Interview with the Tartan last week, Mr. Sullivan said that at no time, had he considered ask­ing Sharp to resign, and that he was never in favor, ot a change. "I want all my drum-majors to have at least one year’s experlenco In the band "before they assume the field generalship. Sharp - showed' himself to be a very fine sports­man when he offered to step aside. I:am highly satisfied with his leadership of the band, bnd there­fore cannot think of allowing hi’i to'leave us at..this time.”"'
“Plebe" Gives Performance 
“Sharp will continue us drur major and lhe. ‘plebe’ MU take hJs
the ranks for the. march up and down the field. At this time he will march before the band and give a demonstration of baton twirling y?lth "his own batoa.’* '' ' 
In . commenting upon the pres ent arrangement, Joseph Copp said, “I am glad things have hi -arranged -as -thoy- aco-^now for-1 feel right stepping into
f the high school band In Middle­town, Ohio, and has had baton' work at tho Tnterla^hen Music Camp under the direction of tb< drum-major o% the University-o Illinois Band. He has a scholastic scholarship at Carnegie!
COUNCIL BRIEFS
the following 'problems of student government: • -Approved the petition of Pi Delta Epsilon for a tea dance Wednes-
.Dragon soclftt.y./ûr.iîancfts-on: Octo­ber 17 and 24.pf. Failed to approve the budget of the Carnegle TaTtan and tabled the
-Arts Ball and - the -Post -Arte Ball.Approved the petition of Betty Mackey andlflaTy wettaeh tor tbs privilege of holding extra-offices, which under tfie - Women's -Point " r are allowed to hold
ï^SÊim
Margaret Barr Is 
General Chairman
Proceeds from Drive, Ball, 
Will Give Financial Aid 
To Needy Students
to play for the second annual-Char-- lty Ball on Friday evening. The Ball, sponsored - by tho Carnegio Women’s Guild, will take place . from 9 until 1 o'clock <n Thistle Hull. Marenvet Burr ’SB,. preBlllent of the Cult?; Is general chairman. - Thfe affair will be the first formal' dunco of tho Carnegie social col-
Tickets are on salo at §i.25. a couple and may be obtained either at the *‘Y” office or from members • of the commilteo.
Funds To Help Students . .Heretofore, funds raised by tho Guild hnvo boon used In various... typoB of philanthropic .work off campus, often in connection with-, city welfare organizations. This yoar, however, the proceeds from the Guild drive and the Charity Ball will be used to give flnnnoirvl . aid to needy Carnegie students.Miss Barr, general chairman of the Ball, Is .assisted by. Beatrice^ Archer '37, Department of Painting and Design;.LouIbo Almy *36.-De­partment of Home Economics:. Draybelle McDonald ’36, Depart-, ment of Music; and Dorolha Bate­man ’3C, Department of'Secretarial Studies. Miss Barr Is .a member of Mortar Board, women’s senior honorary; a member of Kappa Phi
nallsfic honorary, and a former. Cwen. She is a member, of tho Department ot Home Economics.
Charles W; Watkins, and; Dr. ana Mrs. Roscoe M. Ihrig have been, invited to attend the ball aB. pa­trons and'patronesses,The chaperons for the. hall wilt
Lang, Mr. F, Curtis Swanson. Mr.
coinFt._____„ .... .........._____Ing type ot music, Walter's piece band has played at many Pittsburgh collegiate affairs. Dur­ing the summer, they played for . various country clubs, for several Brentwood Park dances, and at the-.. Sheridan Fair from August 25- to September 1. The band also broad*, casts every Sunday evening at T - o’clock over Station KQV.
Institute Observes 
37 Founder’s Day
“Our America1’ Is Subject 
' Of Address by Pres. ^
The thirty-seventh annual cele. = bralJou oi Founder’s I>ay at tha - Carnegie Jntetltute win he held " Thursday afternoon, October 18,' at 4:00 o’clock in the Carnegie Musid a Hall. Samuel Harden • Church,- ' President of the Carnegie Institute : will deliver the annual address-:His subject will be ’-Oiir America;” ""Samuel Harden Church has - re­ceived tho honorary degrees of LL. D. from the University of PlttS- hurgh,:Lltt..D..from. Yale Univer- slty, and M, A. from Western Penn­sylvania Un/versity. He Is also a member of the Legion of Honor. • ihespeaker at the-RbVub-'-' lican National Conventions in all Presidential campaigns from -1904^' 1932, when he organized the Lib­eral party and declared fo? Frank- •' lin D.. Roosevelt, 'Democratic ; nominee.
The opening, number. Victor1 Herbert’s “American Fantasy will- be played by Dr. Marshall BIdi« well. Organist and Director of; Music at the Institute. Reverend'.; Marshall Mwr. DD -u >i te- <s£ the. Bellefleid Presbyterian Church- wili pronounce the invocation.A quartette from: the Shadyside:' •Presbyterian Church, consisting-ot Margaret Spaulding StockdaleiV Mabel. King,. Will A. Rhodes:-vjfp-tfí and Raymon T. Griffin, accomv; panled by Earl Mitchell.; will:. slng^ Rudyard . Kipling's ••Recessional”:: to the De Koven music.. "The Sex-.' tette-* from Lucia, and "Mountains^ bv Jlasbach N• • -Make- AWrds for -Palntlng»^^The International- Exhibltion 'Of :: Paintings awards will w be. 'att-;« nounced from the platform and: at % the conclusion of.the program.- the>: Fine Arts galleries will t^e opened v for the inspection of this vearti«^ exhibitions BThe Founder’s Day commlttee-^fij consista of the following membera%Xa of the Board of Trustees:'George‘S*
William J. Boost

---------------------------------------------------

rwr
_THE CARNEGIE TARTAN. TUESDAY. OCTOBER Ì6, J93.4 -
Nov. 9 Is Set 
,r»Tj Annual 
Military Ball
El abo r a te Decorations 
Will Mark Annual 
R.O.T.C. Dance
Scabbard, Blade 
Names Committeë
J. Walker Heads Decorations; 
C. S. Gischel, Publicity;
T. Dana, Orchestra
held November 9 look place during the past week.wilh the selection of committees.
The annual Military Ball, one of the most colorful, social occa­sions of the flrst semester is spon­sored by the Carnegie chapter of Scabbard and Blade, national mili­tary honorary society.
Honorary cadet officers will be chosen from the senior class wo­men of Margaret Morrison and tlie ' College of Fine Arts. These hon- orary officers chosen by vote or the s R. O. T. C. unit, will receive irds at
- by Scabbard and Blade’s call for junior and senior officers.
Orchestra Bids Sent Out 
Thomas W. Dana ’35 is chairman of the orchestra committee. As In
members assisting Mr. Dana on the committee are Charles N. Bay- ' less ’36. Howard E. Nestlerode ’35, and Charles W. Mallieon '35- 
Gischel Publicity Chairman 
Clyde S. Gischel ‘35. has been . placed at the head of the publicity committee. He will also act as a '•member of the ticket and favor committees. Mr. Gischel Is a mem­ber of the Delta Tau Delta social fraternity, cheerleader, and busi­ness .^manager of the Trl-Publica-
tbe Ball are Julian F. Mi Nicholas M. Maslch ’34, and John A. Ord ’35.
Lighting To Be Concealed 
Army pennants, college banners and Concealed .lighting are features which are being plai decorations . committee : James K. Walker ’35. Mr. Walker .is a', member of PI Kappa Alpha
tions to feature the Military Ball ^111 be executed by members of
?ick ’34. E. Bradford Hollingsworth .-.'*36,.àhd J. Clinton Parker ’35;• 1 he cadet colonel of the R. O. T. ,C.. who will be selected within the - sect few weeks, will' lead the , grand march at the Ball. Tickets
Will Current Investigations 
Of Munitions Lead to War2:
Krupp Munitions Scandal 
Broke Just Before 
¦Last Big War
interest in the munitions industry seems to be at its highest ,Juet prior to the outbreak of war. This may be simply a coincidence, but gigantic scandal “broke” in Ger­many with* respect to the Kruppa just on the eve of the World War, Without being unnecessarily pro­phetic and gloomy about it, may not our own American Investiga­tion of the turgid and more or less wanton munitions racket portend some evil consequences in interna­tional relations in the near future? And a peculiarly baffling fact about is this,that it is bouud to flourish when­ever there are ructions and no mat­ter what the particular cause of tbe difficulty may be.
ing almost with rapid-fire pred­ion. Witness, Ibe latest, last eek in tlie case of the assassina­tions of the late King of Jugo- a and tbe foreign minister of ce, M. Barthou. It is easy to rn a shifting of alliances, and attempts to achieve a fine “balance of power” which cannot be main­tained very long without the ultl-
find a persuasive agreement in i
—technically—when the dread mo- coroes. - The arms salesman is therefore the most welcome of business agents, and tbe prl'
In fact, the nwnltloneer. is a peculiarly patri­otic entrepreneur — until he is found out.
- Committee Exposes Practices The Nye Committee of the United States Senate which has been investigating the Munitions Industry has thrown the spotlight phases of this nefa-
dustry, which gives the lie to the supposed patriotic fervor of tbe munitions manufacturer.The Electric Boat Compnny. an outstanding manufacturer of sub­marines, it appeared, entered into greement tor the exchange of
i with Vickers, the leading Eng-
policy, for the one concern could approach one of tbe combatant lions, the o(her the enemy, sell
all the casualties. This happened In .the case of a dispute between Chile and Peru."Many Shameful. Examples
brought by ' Krupps, leading nan arms manufacturer.
against Vickers of England de­manding an unpaid royally of a shilling upon every grenade¡used by the British in the World war— ostensibly..against German soldiers —on the basis that a fuze-patent employed on tbe grenades bad be* longed to tbe Krttpps._ Final set-
Germao U-Boats, the Nye .com­mittee revealed, employed again “basic patents” of the American Electric Boat Company in tbe un­dersea warfare . against us. A prominent American manufacturer of gases admitted that he had ’ dickering with tbe Japanese
the scandalous story runs; tbe bloody “merchants of death” a« nationalists, more so certain religious organ­izations in soqie respects.
ifit by Home Sales 
me market is not over­looked by any means. - In all cases, the demands of the home govern­ments are more important. So ini- tant is this that, as In tbe case of Franco, many newspapers are outright by the rtiuni- tloneers, to exacerbate public opin­ion to the war danger whenever there Is any danger of its cooling . Disarmament conferences are ecked by tbe lobbying of tbelr agents or 60 emasculated as to pro­vide an empty show.cy of artoe embargoes, as in tbe case of the one supposed­ly' in force against Bolivia find
manufacturer. Pressure been used to undermine such
Natlonalize/ Arms Manufactui Nationalization of the manufnc- re of arms, lo remove the -temp­tation of profit by blood has often in advanced by “peace-flghtei remove once, and for all, these insidious people. But there i guarantee that the nations them­selves will become any. less peace­fully disposed thereby. That de- Itogelher upon the nature of the state.In the caBea of Fascist countries bred upon an Inflamed, exaggerat­ed nationalism, and living upon a policy of economic separation the danger of war wo.uld be all tbe re imminent. The Toots of national disputes are, after all, momlc chiefly and until tho chief nations shall have achieved rational economic system, wai II ensue. For the munitions .nufactrfrer is after all only “do- __j business” like all other indus­tries and, acting as a. supersales-
JMasster Plumbers «Green Pastures”
Miset Students
Five Men Hold Scholarships 
... Of National Association
-.Members of the Scholarship ; Committee of the' National Asso- . elation of Master Plumbers tnet in .Pittsburgh Sunday and Monday to Interview the holders qf N. A. M. P. scholarships at Carnegie, John . Richmond *35, John R. Burns.’35,
< Until recently the National As- ... Eoctatlon .of Master Plumbers has- awarded two or three scholarships to sons of members of the Associa­tion on thé basis ^if high school- grades, and the. financial standing Tof .hls parents The only stipula-
.-.is the Plumbing, Heating,.and Ven­tilating course at Carnegie.
The scholarships are -funded by Interest on securities granted-to the -National Association by firms,
: ventilating industries.
Representatives of the National Association have, in former years,. held one meeting a year In Pitts- - burgh for the purpose of meeting-• the men that have been granted• scholarships. As a result of the
' expects to resume thei 
' Members of the Scholarship : Committee are: Richard J. Welch, -, Lowell. Mass., chairman; George -Hi' Brak«. Buffalo, N. Y.; John J. : <telnaa: Chicago, III.; John P. Me- • Coy.'Fon du Lac, Wls.; and George
Tickets On Sale
Green Pastures, the famous T)lay about negro life, is coming to the Nixon theater for three nights, Oc­tober 19, 19 and 20. ..Students may purchase tickets at the following
tained at Room .104, College of Fine Arts.. Beginning .Monday,. Oct. 22, the Nixon Theater will present Fritz Leiber in a repertoire of Shake­spearean plays.Tlie plays includi Tuesday and Thursday evenings.iday evening;
Lear,
Hamlit, Monday evening and Sat­urday matinee; Merchant of Vi and .Macbeth, Wednesday and Sat­urday evenings. The some rates available for Green Pastures be had'for thè Fritz Lelber pi tations.
Dei Blanco, conductor, wi>l present' their fifth season of concerts Carnegie Music Hall. The Friday evening concerts, five in number, will be given at 8:16 o’clock o‘n Oct. 19. Nov. 23, Jan. 11, Mar. 1, and April
$1*00: Students desiring spe­cial rates must get • an Identifica­tion card from Mrs. Lawton, ofilcc of the Department of Music, which when presented at tlie box office .will entitle the student to lower rst/is. The May Beegle Concert' prices of ^ the season Balcony, $9.00, $8.00 and §5.60, andSecond' Balcony. $5~.S0.
W00DLAWN PHARMACY
5200 FORBES STREET 
SPECIALS
jTeeh Stationery _______................•• 50c
Probak Blades.. ...............25c foi 59c
¦-Alarm Clock, Guaranteed........................
Field Glasses ............................
.Roget’s Thesaurus.................................
Complete Shakespeare’s Works.............
Sheaffer Pen Sets, 1/3 Off 
$19 50 Radio
TOY OTJH.- LTJireHEONETTE
. 98c 
.$1.00 
$100 
.$1.00
$13.50
sellili
TJb i stle; Plans 
Taking Shape
Special Price Offered 
For Senior Sittings -.
Award Coiitraets
Editor Hopes for Publication 
In Early Part of May
James M. tetla ’36, editor of the 1935 Thistle, has -announced that definite plans for .the publi<
during the next few weeks. Price arrangements have been made and contracts have been let for the photography and the engraving.
Tbe Thistle is the Carnegie year­book, published annually by .mem­bers of the junior class. It con- individual pictures of gradu- seniors, feature sections, sports, and group pictures together.a brief account of campus or­ganizations.
Parry to Do Pictures All photography for the year- )ok will be done by th6 Pany studios. The. first senior pictures will be taken this week; All in­dividual sittings must he made be-
beeh made The regular depo:Is listed as one dollar but to those who bavé made a deposit on the Thistle the studio sitting charge will be fifty cents. Arrangements for Thistle pictures should ?b,e made at the "Y" office in Indus-ies Building.
The contract for the engraving work has been let to the Canton Engraving Company of . Canton,
book engraving. The school ice of this firm iB in charge of Marvin Potts ’32 and Ralph Hitch­cock '30 former art editors of the Carnegie Thistle.
Although no definite date of pub­lication has "Been n\ade public,
student body the Thistle will be buted the first week in May.” The ' business staff has reported
¿heir teeth pulWd.'lap-dogs with all
CLAN NEWS
Carnegie- alumni of s the Ne’ York Clan will meet at the Hotel Martinique Cato- Bar, at the £or-
dinner, after the New York Uni­versity football game.The Carnegie Women’s Clan Philadelphia will hoid the fl meeting of the season at the home' of Mrs. Robert E. Lees, Old Gulph
Alumni in and near Philadelphl are Invited to attend this meetini.A dinner smoker opened the fall activities of the Carnegie Men’; Clan of Philadelphia. It w.as held at Palumbo’s Restaurant on day, October fifth. i>r. John Beatty of the Bureau of Recoin
After the Camegie-Temple football game, the Philadelphia Clan planning a dinner-dance.. Paul V. Shaver, a-past president
“pleasing” number of 1935 
been sold,Thistle subscriptions have already
Electrical Eng. Society 
Holds First Meeting
The first meeting of the Carnegie
was held in the Union on Friday evening, October 5. There was a program followed by refresh-
faculty counsellor, presented .
organization.. A committee was appointed to conduct a membership drive.The new officers of the A. I. ,E.E. are: H. J. .Corning *36, chair­man; J. B. Rice '36, vice chairman;F. E. Mertz ’35, secretary; O. C- Coho. ’3G, treasurer; ” ‘
chairman of meetings and papers
iness meeting, will_be
‘Y’ Cabineis Hold 
Meeting Tonight
Plane for Jointly-SpoDsored 
Affairs Will Be Made
A joint meeting'of fhe Y. M. C. A. and the Y.. W. C. A- Cabineis will be held lit the home’ of Mr. Rollin V. Davis, executive secre­tary of Student Council and also of the Carnegie branch of the Y. M C. A., at eight o'clock tonight.
' This meeting Is being held for the purpose of laying plans for their jointly-sponsored functions for the remainder of the.year. For the eveqjng of November 5, tbe two cabinets are planning a.joint meeting to be held at the Delta Upsilon fraternity bouse. The cab­inet? will also make - their plans for the annual Thanksgiving dinner for those students who ¦are not able to go home.
Among the other.functions to be arrauge'd are the Christmas party, which ¡a scheduled for' the last week of school before the Christ­mas recess, and a joint entertain­ment for the Cosmopolitan Club.There will not be a speaker for the meeting tonight as it will be
Students’ Poems 
Published in Book
Carnegie students, Melvin D. Buckner ’3G, of the Department, of Painting and Design, and Fred
i published oo September
This anthology is the first com­prehensive collection of western Pennsylvania poetry to be. issued in book form, and was compiled by Walter E. Manges and David E. Nichols, with a foreword by George Seibel. It is illustrated
Pittsburgh artist.In order to encourage promising younger writers, the compilers of the anthology have devoted a special scholastic section to the ’orks of gifted students fr<
New Process for Hardening Steel
Disclosed by Garjiegie Professor
Effects of Nitrogen on M etuis 
Is Subject of Lecture 
By Dr, Krivobok
A néw Idea', thè : hardening" of- stainless steels with nitrogen, was presented last Wednesday to the National Metals Congress by Dr. Vsevolod N. Krivobok, professor et Metallurgy, in his Campbell Memo*- 
riaiLectuxe.Alter three years .of research on the. problem Dr. .Krivobok discov­ered that the same nitrogen which Is used in'maklng fertilisers will harden certain alloys which are the basis of the new . rustless steels. “My researches," said Dr. Krivobok, “prove that nitrogen has profound influence on the proper­ties of stainless steel, and also, that iron and cbrominm (stainless steels) have a remarkable affinity for nitrogen in alloys to produco astonishing changes in properties.“By controlling the nitrogen con­tent and with proper beat treat­ment, Impact characteristics (that is toughness) far above those ob-
M.M. Sophomore Class 
Gives Halloween Party
The sophomore class of Mar­garet Morrison Carnegie College is planning a Hallowe’en party to be held In Recreation Hall bn Monday. afternoon, October 29, from 4:30 to 6:00 p. m. The program Tor the affair, which Is being arranged by a committee headed by Margaret Fitzgerald, will include the tradi­tional Hallowe’en games. Refresh­ments will consist of cider, dough­nuts, and novelty candy. A fee of fifteen cents .will -be charged.
your bank 
as you would choose 
afriend
MELLON NATIONAL 
BANK
'Pittsburgh, Pa.
tainable in alloys wltbout 'nltrogen can easily bo secured-"This Is the first'time that a study on the Influence of some gaseous elements, such as nitrogen, has been reported, despite the fact that the .questlon. of- composition has been exhaustively, examined.. Thus, Dr. Krivobok. has discovered facts wbich 'he thinks should prove Im­portant to both scientists and
of the difficulties encountered in fabricatioii-of gtalnless and' similar 
steel.'- What Influence nitrogen ma> have on other alloys,.Sr. Krivobok said, .at present can be only epecu- lated upon.___________~
Nante of Woodlauth 
Avenue Is Changed
The name of the street which 
extends from'the Woodlawn Phar­
macy throi/gh the Carnegie Cant- 
pus to Frew street«, has beeit 
changed from Woodlawn &ren,ue to 
Margaret Morrison street.
Some students probabiy do not 
know, that the. streets on ..the cam- 
pus have names. The street-which 
rune from the Margaret Morrison f 
building past the gymnasium to I 
'Park boulevard la Tech slreel. I 
Frew street starts at the Park I 
Mansions Apartments, extends the I 
length of Industries Building, an<i I 
.joins Park boulevard at the bridge J 
Teaming to Carnegie Institute. |
Ton speak into the telephone. Your voice, your 
personality, part , of you is projected far and wide. 
In effect you are in two places and time9 at once— 
evening in New York, afternoon in San Francisco. 
Or you’re in Washington today and in Sydney, 
Australia tomorrow—at one and the same time!
The telephone’s power, to put a person, where he 
wants to be—-at the psychological moment—proves 
tremendously valuable.
In domestic and foreign 1 
business, in national and 
international affairs, in 
friendly social contacts, 
it permits a quick inter­
change of ideas and im* 
mediate understanding.
BELL TELEPHONESYSTEM
A college survey of 156 in^tit'i tions showed that the scltolarsliii averages of frat men were -lilchei
—Red and Black.
LOWER PRICES
Mats. 15c-20c Nites 20c-30e |SWELL SHOWS
AND ALL THE BEST ONES
2,000 GOOD SEATS
Perfect Vision
BE WISE—
S£E THEM ALL AT THESCHENLEY
Today and Tuesday 
Joan CRAWFORD 
Clark GABLE 
I “CHAINED” I
f LAUREL: and . HARDY 1 J In “THEM THAR HILLS" f
Mickey Mou6e Cartoon
Wed;-'Th~urs., Oct. 17-18 
Robert MONTGOMERY 
Maureen O'SULLIVAN
“THE HIDEOUT"
• And Another Typical- Schenley Theatre-:Program: qB
TT
, •. m a
common - sense 
package -¿W10c
-and where I can get 
good pipe tobacco”
T
HE tobacco which we 
believe is best suited 
for pipes is used in making 
Granger Rough Cut.
It is made by thé Wellman 
Process, and we believe'that 
it will compare favorably 
with higher priccd tobaccos:.
We wish, in some way, we
the pipe tobacco that’s Mill) 
the pipe tobacco that’s COOL
__ —Jolid seem to iiie H
a pipe to iitst tn Granger.
S Pg**Mjj e n'Mmu stlBaat ibryr
À

---------------------------------------------------

r
TUB co-ed’s scrimmage is on the 
bleachers during the football 
games. We are going to give you 
e helpful hints so that you will 
be able to present a beautiful line­up—and dazzle your opponent's eyes—as well as confue'e their sig­
nals.
YOU will score a touchdown with this exciting and utterly dif­ferent three-piece suit' The lines of the fitted velveteen jacket are relieved by *a coachman revere over each shoulder; the black and yel-__¦ plaid wool JUet and skirt areI trimmed MOST effectively . with a of black and yellow buttons I from the top of the Jilet to the , bottom of the slit skirt. We’ll tell I a secret: you'll be surprised | when you« learn the price!
MAKE first down at the football dance with this chfc (we I think of a better word for It) tunic frock, which is an absolute neces­sity in your wardrobe. The tunic [ Is of a new material called Klo-ka,I (we don’t know what It means I either), and is a dashing .firebrand
} up the side. The shoulders of the } tunic are slashed to the elbow, and ! a startling NEW-bcckle fastens the I high neck: and the belt. We forgot | to tell you that-the skirt is SEVEN j laches from-the floor—the newest | afternoon length.
The LASSIE with a knowing eye
choico of large or small links.
A GOAL for the gdl in the Robin Hood hat! in black, smoke- gray or: Spanish tile, these hats
of these a Robin Hood ba1 would belle, ila- name. *
WE compliment ourselves on die- covering .some new ‘flnda’ in hand­bags. Real leather ones—In styles that are 'usually sold for twice the price. Envelopes, straps, top han­dles, zippers, all fitted with the niceties we like to have.
WE have almost permitted our­selves to neglect the young woman
r way to find a shop that spe­cializes in just wh&t you want. Among other values we especially noted the sport shoeB. In kid, mandruca leather, and ‘Ireebark,* we saw so many styles th£t we couldn't make up our minds which one to tell you about. You’ll like the strap oxford with the wing tip and-perforated side, and ÿou won’t be 'able to resist the sls-eyelet tie of mandruca leather—intensely popular' fiamong co-eds—with a very, VERY military heel.
The Tartan will be' glad to -fur­nish the names of the shops where thé above items may be purchased...ELVA HENDEU
THE CARNEGIE TARTAN, TUESDAY, OCTOBER 16, 1934 _____
C ornhusk er s Like Que en s
Club Notes.
October 10 by a tea in the Recre­ation Hall In Margaret Morrison College. Included among other rushing events will be a Kid Parly and a Friendship Suppdt1 to be held October 19 and 20, respectively. New members will be pledged to (he organization the second week ' November.'
Officers of the Xi Chapter of
Helen Shaner '35, president, Fran­cis Goodwin, vice president, and Pearl McKiseck, secretary. The
honorary, will sponsor a tea on Fri­day, October 19, in. the Exhibition Room, College of Fine Arts, at 4:30. All -women music students are invited! Freshmen are invited particularly so that- the organiza­tion may meet and . become ac­quainted with them. - Sophomore girls have been, . invited to.^play their, various Instruments, although juniors and settlors wfll&Iso'be pa'the ptograini.................
Officer ; for', this yearVlv-
lan Johnson ^33,.'president;* Betty Watson ’35. vice-president and chairman, of ; pledges; Loretta Curry ’35, corresponding secretary Marjorie crlbbs ’35, recording sec retary; Hilda Ellers '35, treasurer; Agnes .Holst '34, editor; and Ger­trude Landis *34-, chaplain.Miss Hulda Kenley and Miss Susan 0.anfleld, of .the Music De­partment^.advisors. of sthe honor­ary, will;be present.’
the Science Club_________ ..L rison Is to be held , in the Recrea- f tEon Hall oh October'25. 'Follow­ing the dinner,'the pledges will en:1 tertaln the members. A formal pre- I sentation of colors will take-place | at the close'of'the program/
Monthly dinner, meetings are .to be held In the'Commons Annex', for club" members and faculty./rbrbugh- . out the year the clubwllj/have six Buest speakers drawn ¡from: a; list of - noted . pittsburgh' : physicians, chemists; and/physlclsts.1;- -Thei De­cember, meeting /-will” he in the. form of a Christmas par.ty to which' 
sJumna4;.atVriuvi4ed;-r'?tifcX-\Jyaje neeUng^M'vjn^iopinep'.yeOT^.wili JQ in^the ronii of a:picnic " 
;Offlcers ofthe/club are Mlrlan . '35,;preisIdent; tBetty KeD>
—le '85; aecretary-treasurer; and Mellon '95/ social chair-:
Nebraska U. Crowns 
Four Co-eds During 
Côllege ‘Year
By MARION SMITH.Lincoln, Nebraska To the students'of Carnegie .Institute of'Technology.Nebraska University has ir esting customs and traditions currlcg each year: Several ofthese customs take place each fall, when new students are .entering upon their college, careens. During
large, affair open to all Nebraska students.
We have several customs which of especial interest to women
freshmen into 'the various actlvl- -lies. .The Girls Cornhuskers Cos­tume Party is another affair ex­clusively for women studenis, and so Is the Co-ed Follies,-each of J-heae groups submit Individual acts. Several acts are chosen and put Jo vaudeville form together
“Best Dressed Girl" for the year.Men Wear Onion Corsages - The • Mortar Board 'Party is al­ways greatly, anticipated by the men. This is a vice versa. affair, and sometimes the men take rather unfair advantage of the glrlB. Beau­tiful corsages, ranging from onions to calls lilllea adorn the lapels of the .men's coatB, and girls can be'' seen carrying around cigarettes, mints and even 'small week-end bags filled with shaving equipment, etc. ThiB ' is ' really a night of revenge, and' the men do. their best to get it.The Pan-Hellenic Banquet is an annual affair. Scholarship awards are given at this time. In the fall, the Dean of Women and her staff always give a. tea for women. stn-v dents.' The men, too, sponsor several
outstanding junior and senior i presents two interesting sb each year. 'Their fallrevlew 1l of our outstanding traditions. This is a vaudeville program : given at one of the large theaters on a Sat­urday morning before a home foot' ball game.' The acts, submitted by fraternities and sororities, either Individually or combined, are chosen well in advance of the-date, and much time and effort are put forth to present the prize-winning act'and thus win the silver cup. The climax of the morning's enter­tainment is the presentation of the “Nebraska Sweetheart" She -is elected by the men studenta about a month before the show, al­though her identity is kept secret until this day.Present Original CompositionsThe other traditional Kosmet Klub show.Is given in Xhe..sprlng. Thls ls always a musical comedy, and features are executed by a male cast. The musical numbers used are original compositions of Nebraska students and are writ­ten to fit the play which ' is also orglnial. There are usually sev­eral pony tfiorusea which add
Another event sponsored by men students Is the .annual homecom­ing party. It Is sponsored, by In­nocents Society, which Is the sen­ior men’s honorary. Innocents Society is also in charge of the 
rallies before ‘games,
brilliant affair. The Honorary Cadet . Colonel, who has been
fleers and their sponsors. , •Prom Girl Presented The Junior-Senior' Prom, which closes the formal season,- is equal­
ly brilliant The presentation •‘ the “Prom Girl“ is the outstan ing feature ol this party, which handled, by a committee of twelve Junior men and women;
Interfraternity Council sponsors
known as the Barb Council. This council sponsors .parties held at the school colosseum about every month;
There are many other customs Ì could mention, biit l have tried to tell you of the ones which I felt were the most Interesting and suc­cessful. I should like, however, to include a description of Iv? Day, which I feel. Is the loveliest tradi­tion, we have.
Ivy Day is sponsored by Mortar Board, senior wome'n's- honorary, and is always on the first Thurs­day In May. Classes are dismissed for the entire day. The ceremonies are held in a beautiful spot' on the campus, surrodnded by large, old trees. The morning’s activities bo« gin with thè Interfraternity Sing. Keen competition is always evident among ~the fraternities, .for to win first p!*ce. In the Sing is consider­ed quite an honor. At the close of the Bing the Mortar Boards march, in and stand in front of the huge throne. Then the Ivy .and Daisy ‘ Chain Processional begins. Each Borority chooseB two out­standing girls from each class to take part in the Daisy Chain. These girl.? are dressed in pastel shades. The Ivy Chain Is composed of all the senior women,. dressed in white, who form o large circle in­side the crowd and wait for Iho May . Queen and her attendants to
Coronation Elaborate Affair
The coronation of the May Queen is an elaborate affair. The- queen has been chosen by a vote of all the senior women. The girl.poll­ing the second highest vote Is Mald-of-Honor. Two outstanding girls from each class have boen
girls have all marched up to their places on the large throne plat­form—the irçay Queen in white, and each couple of attendants in long spring dresses of a different shade.
This ends the morning events. The afternoon program is opened with the Intersororlty Sing. Usual­ly about eighteen groups enter the Sing, and the reultB show that •much time has been spent* on pre­paration.
After the sing is over, the crowd 
bccomeB restless, for they are about 
to witness what they have been 
waiting for all day. The two sen- honorarles are about to make known tHose juniors'who have been chosen to carry on. The Mor- Board starts .by marchnf&round through the crowd In-an effort to locate their new members, junior girls have to. sit on the- ground and. remove their hats. One can seei'thv Mortar Boafd glaring through their black masks,
line up .behind *. row of. chairs upon which the new members will The Mortar Boards then go
iund, they sneak up behind their girls and put n black mask over their eyes. Each neophyte Is then
icorted to her chair amid much leering.
Neophytes' Masked 
After all the neophytes have been masked,, the Innocents begin their activity, which is really ac­tivity. . it sometimes looks more like a football game or a free-for-
terrlbly' dignified and stern, they start their march around . the d. When all their men have been located they, too. start out at a time to “tap’’' the' new One might judge this a very gentle method, but -If you could see It you wbuld be quickly disillusion­ed. The Innocent takes a .running start from about twenty : or thirty feet in back of his neophyte, then runs and jumps on him. When it is all over, you see two slightly dusty and disarranged figures get­ting up and heading for the row of
big event of our school year. Sincerely,MARION SMITH, President, Association Women Stu­dent Board.
Five Carnegie Profs. 
Listed in “Who’s Who’
Among the 361 persons fron Pittsburgh who were listed in th( edition ‘of “Who’s Who 11 America,’’ -Carnegie bad five repi s sentatives. They were Dr. Mi 3
tor of the College of Industries. Dr. Malcolm McLeod, head of the Department of English, aiid Dr/ Charles Watkins, director of Mar g'nret Morrison,
This new edition of '.‘Who's Wlio” contains 31,081 names with 3,000 of these being added In the last edi­tion, 1934-35. ’ Those listed in “Who’s Who” represent Industrial magnates, labor leaders, educators
many other professions.
- »Who's Who in America’’ was established in 1899 by Albert M,
1,023 remain in the last edition of ‘Who’s Who.”
At Syracuse Uni
SQUIRREL HILL 
BARBER SHOP
6023 FORBES STREET
DRESS MAKING A^D ALTERATION
MRS. ANDERSON
5176 WOODLAWN AVENUE 
MAyRower 8543 .
Here îi is. 
MONDAY.
¿and I still 
got a 
DOLLAR/
. You, too, can sing the weekly 
' song of ia dollar saved.., may- •
- be more. How? 'Send your 
. laundry home. Ats.no extra 
charge, we’ll-pick it up any- 
time, take it home, and bripg 
it back on time.. If you arede- 
' pression-conscious, you may 
ev.en send it '‘6611^*’-^
. Make a pomtofsuggesting 
to the folks that they send the'
:. laundry back byRailway Ex-
926 PENN' 
ATJantic 3600 r . ^j‘ 
Tha beat then ia i
. press. and insure swift and. 
safe delivery.'1'- ;.
You can oouQt on the de­
pendability of Railway Ex­
cess for shipping anything— 
anywhere. We give a receipt 
on pick«up. and take'a receipt 
on delivery, double proof of 
prompt a-ndcarefuihandilflg; 
Insurance included up to $50.
For service or information 
merely call or telephone • •
VENUE 
- PITTSBURGH, PA. 
i fniiiperH&on .
SERVING THE NATION1FOR 95^YEARS
RAILWAY
EXPRESS
AGENCY, Inc. i
NATION-WIDE SERVICE
Many Dances, Ceremonies 
Featured -Dining 
Social Season
W. S. O. Meets, 
Elects Head
Group Aims to5 Include 
All Women Leaders
The Woman's Scholarship Or­
ganization .held Its first meeting of 
this semester last Friday, and 
elected the following officers: 
Mary Jane Provost '35, president; 
Betty McGregor '36, vlco-presldent; Sue Fuller ’36, second vlcc-presi- dont; Agnes Canccllicre ’35, secre­tary'; and Julia Hubbard ’35, t;
of Mortar Board, women's nation­al honorary and of Beta PI, sociul sorority. Miss McGregor, Depart- Secretnriol Studies, is prosldent'of the junior class of Margaret Morrison. Miss Fuller, Department of Painting and De­sign, Is vice-president of the jun­ior class of the College of Fine Arts and President of 'Alpha Knp-
Studies, is president .of the Secre­tarial Club and president of Alpha Theta Sigma, social sorority.
Debating Union 
Meets Thursday
The Women’s Debating Union of 
'Cai-negle will bold its next meet­
ing Thursday at 12:30 In room 102 
Margaret Morrison: Marjorie Wein­
man ’35, president of the organiza­
tion, will introduce the topic “Es- 
tm-Currlcular Activities for Girls,” 
which wlll.be discussed in round 
table fashion. All girls who 
Interested lu debatiug pre luvi^led 
to attend this meeting. Previous 
debating experience is desirable 
but not neccssary.
This union wns active several years ago, but for the past few years has been practically non-ox- ' t. With the success of two jaret Morrison girls-over Ui<? fraternity team in a debate hold early last winter, new Interest was aroused. Sevoral meetings were held ' last spring, and-officers for this year were elected. They are: Marjorie Weinman ,.’36, president, and Ida Blekley ’37, secretary. The group is sponsored by Professor Lawler of Ihe English-Department.After several i>rellmluavy meet­ings, competition will he. held lo select a debating team which will represent tlte women of Carnegie in contests with other teams._____
Cwens Entertain 
?‘Twin Sisters”
Dean Green Will Be Guest 
Speaker at Tea Thurs.
Cwens. vomen's sophomore, hon­
orary, will have as their guests at 
a tea Thursday afternoon, their 
“twin sisters/' women who.'have 
transferred to. Carnegie from o .. other college or university. -The purpose of tho tea, whith will be given In tho Women's Club Room from 4:30 o'clock to 6:00, Is. help this- particular group of perclassmen feel rnoru at home
LARGEST SELECTION OF PORTABLE AND STANDARD-SIZED
TYPEWRITERS 
$14.95 to $75.00• Llbernl TtriM . . . K«o Trial RUNT A TYPEWH1TEKFirst Tlireu Months' Mental Applies
FORTPITT 
TYPEWRITER CO.644 LIDERTY AVENUE
Cainegle's .campue.- Deon Mary Watson Green, apon- of the teat tvJU speak concern*Ing .the life afcd duties of> the girl» .at. ...Carnegie. - MJss Winchester, bead .of -Department ^of- Secretarlal Studies wilt also be a, guesf.Barbara Yoakum ’37/Department of Painting and. Design and presi­dent of Cwens, is general 'chnlrmcm for the tel». Helen McCrea '37, De­partment of Home Economics, and Hilda Hugh '37, Department of ! In charge of refresh*
Features of the program arò ..to include a skit In Bong by Mary Lambert '37. Department of Nurs- • Ing;-and a chalk talk. and . skit by Mary Ann Hughes ’37,-Department' of Drama.
STUDENTS
WANTEDFive hundrod Typewriters, ‘ ' les and ited, re­month, flO.OO five, months.
American Writing 
Machine Company801 LIBERTY AVENUE PITTSBURGH ATIantlc 5488 lee our School representative DICK HAMMOND
THE AMPHIBIANS AW> FISHES ARE 
CLOSELY UNITED BV THE UWD05IREN 
AND NATURALIST'S LOKiib DISPUTED 
ON WHICH-ETC
—Im
Jlr
You/will like this delightful way of "turning on” your flow 
of energy. Whenever you feel “phyed-eue,” try dais coaveoieac 
way of ironing out fatigue and increasing your energy: Light a 
Camel. Sooif you will enjoy a definite "lift”...an upturn in 
energy...and in good spirits. Smoke Camels all you wish. Camels 
are made from finer, MORE EXPENSIVE TOBACCOS and 
never interfere with healthy nerves. -
SPORTS WRITER. (Xi/ijPatRob-insoosays^’IvebceosmokingCamels 
ever since they 
market. I find they erase that -'done 
in' feeling-quickly and restore my *pfp/ J smoke »t lcast two packs of 
Camels a day and 1'find that they, 
never interfere with my
EXPLORER. (Right) Capt.RStuart ' Murray, F.R.G.S., says.t/'It’s great to' 
be back 11 was in Hohduras^Mosqin«. 
. tiaTcrritoiy—lOmonths, Fortunately
-’pick-up’ in energy . when I. need it i jpzefer.- Camel’* 
- davor, they never upset my ner?es."
CAME L’ S CO ST L li R TOB ACCOS
NEVER GET ON YOUR NERVES!

---------------------------------------------------

TgE CARNEGIE TABTAN. TUESDAY, .OCTOBER 16, 193*
Came jw Sforíaa
. PHONE MAYFLOWER :
PoMiihed weekly <
n-Cturf__________WILLIAM LANDSBEBG.¦ M.n.pr________pwoohsvr dw­ujM.-- o«Y 1UNET-HAROLD .
UCEA— VTt_livinsstu -»PÏ EDITt...BEAD EDITOR 
JUNIOR EDITORS: Waite
' FEATURE EDITORS: UrlnsBton- COPÏ EDITOR: Rol
JEROME HANSON —UABCARET GRIFFIN .HERBEBT F. SCHWARZ___DUDLET D. PENDLETONVeronica CWtalS Anas Ladd, Jane
Guatai ccn.
.uv» Margwit B&ri*ClilUm Bontellc, Ev»db ChceMtnan, lrvlos Gruber, Jaxota LattA, Louise M«lxo«r. Uoyd Merman thaler, - EiitabeLh Sturt, JlarceJIa Wilburn.
REPORTERS: Toby Cron, Emily Kr tuner, Lonlw Bflldy. Alpha Black, Lewis Brlner, .Helen Bu»baom. LoIi Hompr. WllUun Lord. Alberta McClurt, • Adelaide Remington, Wvnry Ryshonek, Katfaeri&c Schrei be Ls. Albert Schwartz. John Shear. James Stewart. Ruth Weiler, Olive Welsh. William .Kolia, Dorothy Booth. Raeetnary Fierce.
SPORTS STAFF:
TYPISTS:
' Virgìnia Whatoy. 
. STÁFF ARTISTS:
, John Welnbers!
Slckenberger, Marjorie .
Those Who Fall by the Wáyside
V For. more than eight years progressive fac­
ulty opinion has tried to impress upoa the Ad­
ministration the need for a student, personnel 
advlGer. • For more than eight years, accord­
ing to reliable .informants, the -Administration 
ha¿ answered in subatnnce that euch a. need 
- doeVnot exisL
Considering only the single fact that approx­
imately six out of every 10 students who enter 
Carnegie fall to graduate, it is apparent that 
the- -Administration has rather complacently 
taken too much for granted. Especially is this 
. evident' when easily obtainable information 
shows that other colleges graduate as many 
: as 72 .per cent of those who register for de­
gree courses.
Immediately the question of easier compar­
ative ¿currículums arises. To some-extent an 
objection upon auch a basis may be valid. It 
would he, however, more of the nature of an 
excuse than a sound argument. Purdue Uni­
versity, for example, took a group of falling 
students and, without altering academic re­
quirements, coached them on methods of study 
and' t$me budgeting. The experiment-salvaged- 
a sufficient number of students to make it 
more than just a worthwhile venture.
'¦ Businesslike efficiency must come more 
strongly into college administration. No in­
dustrial organization would tolerate a condi­
tion that permitted from sixty to seventy per 
cent, of Its .raw material to he wasted.;. Yet; 
such a condition is condoned at Carnegie.- To" 
make the situation here, even less u¿derstand- 
; able, conservative estimates , fix the'school’s 
¦; operating costs at -more than double; the 
amount of money received "from students in 
.tuition fees^
/ That the'Administration Is aware of their 
Téspónslbliity-in this connection Is not open 
to much question! . With* Freshmap'Week it 
! makes a gesture at providing needed Btudent 
orientation.; Department heads, In theory, are 
' Intended to form a decentralized advisory 
. group. In practice, however, this system' is 
almost entirely Ineffectual and inadequate.
A centralized system under the supervision 
of á student personnel officer trained in that 
work is, theTartan believes, the one satisfac­
tory medium for • clearing student adjustment 
'problems. It is true that from 1919 to 1923 
Carnegie had something of that sort on the 
campus, a bureau of personuel research.
' That bureau cost- a‘ lot of money.' It is eaid 
that the Board of Trustees didn’t.care for-that 
element of-the bureau’s operation,-, eo they - 
' eliminated it entirely. What Is perhaps more, 
to the point, the bureau committed' certain1- 
rather unpolltlc acta.- It tried,' for Instance,- to 
-tell certain-, faculty member's "how, to' teach 
their courses. Now this may have been exact-, 
ly .what they needed.* Experience tells uathat- 
lt 'probably ; vras. But it seems that these in­
structors didn’t like it, ao the pressure of the- 
pinching shoe may- have been so managedas- 
to induce sympathetic pains-where they would 
be. certain to Initiate the executive action- that 
;.Wou!ii',remoyc.theIr..4rritating:rausé,..,.
..¦/Having-been burned* once, tire Admlnistra- 
tlon may be prejudiced against-personnel of- 
flc¿rs and their kin. But‘even a. child .who has 
ibeent-búrned-: iéarñs, upon rea'cbmg; maturity, 
to control fire so: as to secure the benefits of 
.lta-líeat, light and power.. He doesn’t closé 
tlS'eyéfl and say that he doean’tneed It. r 
".The Tartan has a plan which-lt wiil present 
^ii the beMef lhat it Is a definite attempt to; 
ward: Solving the' problem of student. adjust­
ment. aid.- Those who fall by the wayside In 
academic or.social defeat are not to be blamed 
:.>_they. ;are. to be helped; Pereqnallty-adjuet- 
^meptcia'..one of the. college student's, largest 
.'Problems;-''and one which directly reflecta it-
í^^r¿ttaln/'their. professed -ideal, of helping 
íthéSí'i Students to liyé in iUüargeet sen^'thén 
;th^<mu0t; acCeptthls adjustment problem, as
In the first placerons of the few surviving tra­
ditions on the Carnegie, campus. As à matter 
of fact, they ^have survived .most traditions on 
thei- majority of• college campuses- of.-the- 
United States.
Then thé second çhant of this group of-stu­
dents is that-practically every college fresh-' 
man expects to be treated ln'some way differ­
ently from the upperclassmen. The freshman 
feels like a greenhorn (usually) and definitely 
sponsors a “let-down” feeling if no one pays 
any particular attention to him, oi4 if no one; 
recognizes the fact that this is the freshman’s. 
first experience at - being part, of a collège. 
There is not a freshman who does , not regis­
ter without furtive thoughts of whether col­
lege will be as- he has imagined It. *
And when regulations, are lifted at last, this 
group of approvers' believe, the freshman ex­
periences satisfaction in having' passed some 
or successfully weathered some period of 
probation. He actually feels experienced In 
the ways of the campus and counts himself 
i a definite member of the student body. 
Now,-traveling In the opposite direction, and 
echoing their slogan of DISAPPROVAL, an­
other group of students are following a trail 
of their own.making. Such terms as “hypo­
crite” may be clearly heard, and such phrases 
treated Jike children” are uttered with evi­
dent fallaciousness and misunderstanding. 
Whereas in the. approving group freshmen 
3 often to be 6een, scarcely a freshman 
be recognized in this gathering of hearty 
disapprovers. These see only a certain collec­
tion of first-year students decked out In arm­
bands and ill-fitting dinlcs,. Imposed upon to 
the extent of having to know the college songs 
and having to maintain an attitude of extreme 
deference toward ail ijpperclasszneD. These 
students do not visualize the bit of patriotism 
hich lies behind the. plaid, nor the loyal at­
titude inspired by joining in easily whenever 
the school's-songs-are beard, nor the-assur­
or fellowship when finally no difference 
of behavior seems to be expected between a 
first-year and a- fourth-year student,.
By-this time, these two gxoupB of approving 
and disapproving students have traveled far 
and argued bard.- So hard, In fact, that neith- 
notices that It Is approaching a crossroad— 
a familiar crossroad;-the-same from which it 
started out.. And as they near each other and 
meet, the--members-.-of'each group begin to 
mingle as they voice recognition of the fact 
that' prebe regulations do exist, and existing, 
should certainly be not only willingly observed 
but amicably enforced. Hazing is of course as 
passe as hoop-skirts, and quite as undesirable, 
as long as regulations are existent they 
o be enforced. This : problem, belonging 
traditionally to the sophomores, Is at present 
resident on the Carnegie campus. The feel­
ing of willingness on the part: of the freshman 
depends entirely upon the business-like atti­
tude of reason and friendliness on the part* of 
thé "enforcers of the law.” • .
The obvious means for coming to an agree- 
ent between all students -Is for everyone to 
assemble at this, crossroads—where freshman 
regulations are recognized'as an-existent tra­
dition, on our campus, and.where. all varieties 
of approvers-and. disapproval's can. come to a 
wise settlement, of the extents, of ;bptii. regula­
tions and their enforcement. '
Writers’ Row
How -Shall We Regard ,
„w Regulatioue?
l^^e-^cltósKof *38 has-been' observing; ifresh- 
mifc-regülstfons. witû varÿiug aegitfte of con- 
i^ifenfcloUflpeBß. for- three weeks;- Six weeks 
tó^'iii^^' aJ.mbands and dinks will. appear 
io^^cjm^^'for^liie.lä^time'thls :’yéar, : an$Vtiie 
5> cl^ii of '38 will*never again feel the dletlne- 
* Æbelug.'-freshraen:--
^Iii-'the -ineantlmep while regulations-ere.-betn'g" 
anforced^- also with' varying-.degrees; of 
•clentioupness. the sentiment of the student- 
: ñau al.. and travele - in- opposite 
One-group fallowing the fl&g. of 
feels that plebe^iregulotions:
The Cause of the Charity Ball
The second, annual Charity •' Ball,' sponsored 
by the Carnegie Guild, is to be held this Fri­
day night In ThisLle Hall. As a dance, judglng- 
froin the remembrance of the first Ball last 
year,.the affair serves, well its position as the 
first'formal event of the school year. But 
aside from, pure and superficial social enjoy­
ment, the Charity Ball offers the. addltlpnal 
element.of having a Cause.
Causes usually infer, and ultimately mean, 
the acquisition of. money. But beStnd such 
causes there is. ordinarily no higher aim, eu£h 
service. From the proceeds of Guild activi­
ties - this year, certain students at Carnegie 
will be aided financially’in their efforts, to 
complète that, fundamental period of. their 
liyes-^thelr-college, educations.- >
;- Surely-an extra.glow of enjoyment will còme 
to students.-who, beaidea knowing that they 
iiavc./'had.a good- time,” will also know that 
they h&ve spent a portion of goodwill and a. 
^oost to sòme-fellow student..
What Is Being Said
resist iU-r-Dr. Arthur. Irving.
: • Thè greatest-check' on -war today- is .the.-fear of any government to put an army into the field. If it turns.against-you.It* is too big for yoii to handle;—Prof. Robert Ci Brinkley.,
When any man ventures to scoff, at the use of -brains in government he should be asked e.Ti)lal))- hy„ what: pArt vof.the. anatomy Jae be^
hungry student - is Invited to wander, blind­folded and sample a hundred viands until his appetite -Is sated and he rolls, under-the table
with Japan, so: she* has'.her own! way.' - In the Ji»ng run- her war- fever wlil fp.rove^ her' own undoing.--. I* cannot- look '!nt6:,the.-'.future,. but thifl l beiiev^Tr-that. there wIll not be-,a-Russo- .lapanese warMn our generation, .because Japan
the leading role In the.cinema of life.- The few W? year» are ¦ not entitled the *'Lost Generation;” rather It is their parents who are called lost. ' Like so many, who play but minor roles Jn-life’s drama, with „the utter naivete of a Baby LeRoy, the ingenues have walked away with the big- - gest show since. 1918, the spectacular film released la the years 1929-34.
- In this film, gloom ha6 replaced glamor and poverty plenty. The heroine wears last year's hat, and the hero frequents-the bread line. The villain is an ambiguous one. He may be called the economic sys- 
l torn and disrupted .
Their role exciting or startling. It is a little hum­drum, faintly reminiFcent of pioneer days, but the pioneers, haif to build not repair.
The change. broughL about in youth through their new part has been almost . miraculous. The lounge lizard and the . Sapper have become as rare as a five dol­lar gold piece. .Colleges are'filled with young people who consider having a good time secondary to learning bow to earn a living. And the raiment in which youth adoros itself is no longer the multi-colored coat of Joseph; it is the patient, practical garb Nof, Job. The thoughts youth thinks are not giddy thoughts nor obscene.- - In­terests lie not in startling the world but In bettering It. -
the world the young, are being
throng. In Italy there has risen up Mussolini; in Germany, a Hitler. To the young, crying out for direction, such men have seemed a light In darkness. Disillu­sioned in religion, they have let them­selves be guided by personality, powerful but not divine. They have forsaken the thought of their fathers in an effort' -to nvold the mistakes their fathers hava
The general bewilderment parents share with-children. The-'old rods and staffs no longer' comfort; the old remediès no longer cure. The ailment Itself has changed in character. Poverty seems more deadly. In a world'-that boasts of plenty. Some In.-rags and some in-bags and some, in velvet gowns is reality. The horn of plenty doee not flow steadily -nor equally. ' And youih grows grim-eyed and thoughtful.
In -America there has been no organized youth movement to show the trend of youthful thought. But thé .general trend
those who regret having only one life to give for their'country- much fewer. Paris has retired in favor, of Russia, and “Bally-
quake Is, like all survivors of a major dig-. aster, shell shocked—in their own Ian-' guage,.-punch drunk. ..They do not know whether they are glad or sorry to have re­sisted the onslaught of death. They,know that by living they have chosen the harder- :
. chaos and followera become lead­ers. Youth, has'been .forced to make its. own adjustment. "
As- a result the- youth-- of today is- an - utterly .new1, type.- Their parents - cannot- understand them; their older brothers and sisterB consider them, a bit pompous and most awfully, dull.. 'Their youth was the flaming one of song and fable.' 'Twas. they
• fortylsb,. bald fish out ' of - water. Still ... bleary-eyed from- too much good living,* they have settled down to new poverty- with a resignation that .cannot be called ' fortitude. : .
The thingsan experiment; The playboy and girl have j passed away .with' prohibition • and - pros- • perlty. It's smart :to be Qoor< and hail to - him who keeps a stiff Qpper'lip. Today's . young, want recognition not . pity. They do not choose to ¿hock, they - prefer'
little too blase,- a little-too woFldly>- But the fates have selecied: them for this, the juvenile role . in a major world. drama. They are real .'troupers. Th6 6how\n\ust . go on.BESSIE SCHLESS.
Mi. G. E::A.
_____»rtîÂTÂI*•nficle .Tartan.
Temple Uofverafty. (RfCEA) —Sti . ________faculty member^ dropped vendettas tempor:
President Charles E.affair, Inaugurated byBeury is an attempt, to escape from the im­personal student-faculty-'relations so common In large universities.
lege editorials-are. more.perfunctory than ef- tefityf..ibe._fldit.9JS...Qf.-.Tlift.-.J33ilii}f.ipj.r8Ti-oyei. their masthead.in the first issue: •“It is not the policy of .The Bulletin to print editorials regularly • simply, to fill’ a column:. Only when the occasion’Is important enough warrant the effort and the space will suchmaterial be inted."
'• Man. tas. never: thoù ght òf wománvás .a 'wó- manrT-thät.ia'athlöking^^eelingcj^ture^en^ tirely sepárate f^m;Îhlmsélf.-7-Pringlô: Barrêt.
grass grow.^Damoií liunyoh:
It Is one of the 'TOOat,-upsetting moments of Jlf0.-when¿one .discovers'.that, somataste,, habit. b,r-^^nâàTd^f::Juà^çàt'.whIçh.GBc--fe^:trj'6tcd- 'fôt>-1^^àâd^ü]pppséd^to''be -univèrflklils not.
New York University (MCEA)-r-The refusal of offlcials .of. New York‘University to register students in afVears in tuition met. with hrjgoiv oiis resistance troni tlie campiis chaptèr bt-the.1 National ' Student: ‘League. ' Members ÒÌ the" League picketed ; the Washington Square .Col- lege of the: University ' démànàing- that Uiiose students “be permitted- to register: regaVdlesa
...Jthe. League .aiso demanded that. It be-made. possiblefori tuitlcB - t5J!vv T3C^ pald - ta :.->s-£3kly, .monthly, or quartery ‘Installmetits' without'^ex- tra'-charge;”' v . •' - • > • ‘ >' •' •>;•:Defending’ the: policy- of ; thè- administratiònì Milton E.- Loomis of Wasliingto'nÌS^uarè: Colleger:Indlcated- that no 'etudent ivho-could the future::&sBume the.ot. _ would *bo aUQwed to
----------L__________________
the:obllgatioa:to payan t
SlciLo Hobo
FLASH .... Within a week the sews services will announce the ap­pointment of a nationally-known
OIL CITY SLICKER ’37 .... Last year around this time "Toota” Bow* tr decided that the plebe grlddei? could limp along-without fciip for week-end. Back to the-scene of his former triumphs be hurrleO. and playing under the romantic nom - de guerre “Martin Ga* scored six points ' for bis alma
Oil. CITY SLICKER ’38 . . . Mary York has scored/ too. She's the freshman blonde (with coiffure/
damosel has divided the campus to .two fronts: Those-Who HaVe Been Told That They Are Miss York’s Idea of the Typical Colleg* Man, and three ex-night students.
When the referee finally discovered that the black-and-white vos lng a twelve-man team, he completely demoralized. A' few plays later he awarded the ball to Kiskl- on a fumble and pile-up. From the bottom of the mass is­sued a plebe’s bitter tones, delin­eating picturesquely the ancestry and personal habits of the harassed official. Tech got the ball.and apology. , .
ngling Kopcsak HI and' unjustly
DELAYED STEAL . . . The ning gown featured on the c of last week’s Saturday evening Post was an item In Evelyn Lelg- hou’s wardrobe last year.
HARLOW EVERYBODY- ... At fi New York parLy this summer it became necessary to «Introduce Jean Harlow to Lady Asquith. “May I call you-Margott?” gushed the actress.Coldly surveying the lush blonde Lady Asquith corrected, “Ihe name is pronounced Margow, as in Har-
Engineering Hall: • ALL STUDS WANTING TO PLAY SOCCER COME OUT FRIDAY,
willing to desert.one certain mem­ber of. the faculty for any .inter­ested student body. Those especi-
EXCERPT . . . Lock of hair- Kiaki—Lunchroom—Romance. Ses Goody for further details.
looking for- week-end dates the-football, team Is away, just get­ting' some dope on a Charity- Ball
cents on .their affair, was the;.< _ door, behind the orchèstra stand.
NIFTY. NOVELTIES- .. . .. The Michigan State dance' .went off somewhat- getter than the game.
held ; thé •Stetson, .Mary - Frances
that-the Gottdiner-( Hazel team-failed i exhibition.-:
.CAT.’S" ¿.WAY .NOTE'-.. V. : Hottj. O’Donnell is playing on the wrong side- ofrth« fence again. Pitt boy
FROCHT -AGAIN • . JerryO’Toole, Builder of- Men,- Is now taking E-20 for . the-third time. '
,LA\TRiVIATA . . . Johnny Ford was offered a -ride to Africa, on an oil tanker'last week. "Hot place, Africa . . . -The freshman class Is baffled—“Why do they call it tlie Woodlawn Pharmacy if its’ -located at the corner of Mar^^et^Xor^sonand ÿ!ôTbes7; this summei -is'stilUa.on'e-horse town, but hov lorsej’Steele,. J.h« minute plèbe center, plays a bull ^ddle at the;Arlington Beneficial. Association s. , Saturday night at-the shuffle a freshman cut,in—
enrollment -this ¿yeaiv Apparently the^; buslnâs -.collapse .has caused everyone. to desi^ 'a wllëge edùca- tlon. .The • Carnegie''repor t'
Moré- th¿hií200.;.:eiK!Ollége:-:;Vf-;p;ro- h^vev';bèen:.-:àppolntèd':to thithe'ïl '' ^tiôn'^ccp'rdiDgtothe/Asspfcl^ted may'get-: bur.^overu-
séf7'e¿witlTi thie '^Rbosevèl t adniinis- •' “ )g,to the-j '
T¿eTit^;oñ'';th©'I^ alter!aU—
ï»roveV'their,.’ grade8v haâ.- been. de- •véloped^ by,- .Stanford : University ‘itS.taffordr .California)-.:-psvcholog------
SU
¦ARE ONLY „THE FALLEN 
TO BE BLAMED?Current Opinion
With ihe 'adr&t of a ne\-man class there arises p' hlch every first year ma£
fres Ü-
________
should face jVw^at .aliout the extra! curricular activities? Every fresh
mäh,Jias.:ihe:iiröbl6m,»iew. realize
drifts'Into oàe or. tv/ò,-then late- afew more .until he or^ahe to .realize .that the activities taking portions of ‘ their tim time that might *mucb better- spent in a morejprofitabie way: 
Let’s be frank about It,-find’ mit that many of our extro-cu*.,. cular.actlvities ere little, better thsn -good ’-----—
have never known the thrill-that comes from reading a beautiful piece of-literature, or'sitting alone musing on questions impossible of answer, or solitarily watching the quiet beauty of the mountains at nightfall. Many .students - do- not know the inner glow that comes £rom- having .thoroughly mastered 
an assignment—mastered ..In ¦ the sense that they.-have followed the author’s - thought-criticising or ap­proving,. and not for.: the-:sake of mere .olass reoIUtJon and grado. To know these joys one must have time and freedom, things- which- the student ..-burdened -with -extra-cur- .ricular work does not have.: These qualities-, above,-give::Individuality and.culture; too,-many extra-ci»*
“Murdered in cold blood by the pistol fire of a fanatic as­
sassin’.' were the words which appeared the country over with 
the jjeirs of the murder of King Alexander of Yugoslavia, leav­
ing us with the impression that here was another Lincoln shot 
while doing liis utmost to unite the people of his country. .“Petrus Kileman” may have.beei.+ —----------------------------:— ----------;—
expression of a single man’s hatred, it was the climax of a tide of resentment which began with the formation of • the “Triune Kingdom of. the'Serbs, Croats, and Slovenes.”
Belgrade Becomes .Capital 
When the Kingdom was formed in-. 1918- and Serbian Belgrade be­came the* capital of. the new cen­tralized state, Peter I was the ruler of Serbia. The sudden forma­tion of a parliamentary monarchy which the new Kingdom carried with it,- gave the Serbs an advan­tage over the other peoples and before a protest - could be.raised, every government office • of any importance was filled by a Serb. ¿Not that Peter-.was, not interested ¿n the...w,elfare o£ all the- .people, but-.he was-past; 70. and .his young­est. son -Alexander, then aboiit 30 and "the moBt- popular, man that e;ver :held power in .tfcat part of the* Balkans," found that-this fitted perfeotly into- his - scheme for ab­solute;.power.’, Besides—rthe Serbs liad had some little taste of poli­tics and,' after.- all, Belgrade was their-city. .
Peter I Dies Negleeted •-Three years- later-Peter “Tho Liberator’’'died In a-forgotten cor­ner and Alexander Karageorgevitch ascended the throne, to begin -the rule of terror for which hé had so çarefiilly 'laid 'the foundations:. That-Alexander’s-rule should be one of terror is quite natural when we consider his background. His great grandfather- “Black- George” Petrovitch, founder of tlie dynasty, raised the : flrSt . Serbian .revolt against the Turkish rule In 1804. He was a gentle- creature,- who openly admitted .haying killed,oyer a hundred men including.his father and Ills' brother,’ bu t. w&a murdered iq 1817 by:- Milan-‘'Oiirenovitcli, a swine merchaht and the flrstipf the dynasty to. bear his name.
Historj One of Feüds 
- From 1817 on. the> feuds between the Karageorgevitch . and .Obreno- vitch families have'made the his­tory of’ Serbia* ono'‘of intrigues,' nevolufions. . f-orispira.c-.ies, exceu: tions and assassinations. Peter I, the father o£ Alexander, was in ex­ile In Switzerland when a revolu­tion In 1903 overthrew the ruling Obrenovitch and called him back to rule his people.‘-Unfortunately Alexander was in­fluenced |ittle ,by his father who, sàys Louis -Ad$a|c,' ‘tliad a, passion for decent-- governmentand', the common people’s well-being." • Be­fore his recall from exile, Péter
had had too little money to give bis children a liberal education and 6o had 6ent them to the Rus­sian court where they • were brought up In the midst of the “Tsarist ways and means of Ail­ing a country.”
Alexander Liked Russian Way .
. Alexander .laughed at his father's 
ideas. -For-him the only way was the Russian "way. Consequently In 1933 and 1934 we find' the sit­uation in Yugoslavia a sorry one. I'quote from Louis Adamic whose “The Native’s Return' most complete picture of the
Sefb political and economic hegemony -which has the entire country at its mercy, and which supports the dictatorship of King Alexander, who is one of them . . It is the capital of a new country, which, since its Inception has- been in: political agony, and that agony . v •. must be .ascribed primarily . . . lack of- broad, statesmanship on-the part
land and France might'deem neces­sary to wage against'Germany and Italy . . . England and Franco were giving: them loans to keep up their army, police force, and ter­rorist machine; and meanwhile nch, English and other' foreign
natural wealth ploiting its mines and forests’and exploiting its natlvo Workmen - un­der ' the protection of the terror rule which their money supported.” 
Rulers Like- Racketeer«
A Belgrade professor ' remarked to Mr. Adamic, “Their urges (the ruling group's) are the same as those of your American.racketeers,’ Every once in' a while .gruesome crimes occur.Iu-our upper.circles: They kill.one another over busi- nessdeals. They hire men to do away, with their'competitors.. Rich' found mysteriously dead; often enough. Our ' king
.By. this wve do not mean that the stiident. should^ahun.Tall, ; extra­curricular.,work, as though It vero the. plague.. .Rather we mean' that be%should regard It as. distinctly secondary in - importance,., and something that should on no ac­count he-allowed to* detract frtm the central purpose for his cdmlng to'college.—The Juniatlan ' '
. THp OTHER .S1DE; H
made the 'experiment'Tfiiè, he did it .fpr i'fun^-ind' fun.^he had: The food was^good,' and hè was'not once laid low by a belaying pin or a handspike.:••••.^ Undoubtedly' the "Ieàfned echô; lasiic - acqulred 'mbre real; learning In his brief oceanic1' career than: lié coàld haVé fo a longef tfmê in the presidential ' chair; ;: and it ‘makes you-wonder how ’any man,:Cffn’ call hlmelf “well-educated ' untlf hé Tiàà seen how the* other-: fellow-lives. If every' captain ;of induetty had to spend .afi.pccasionfll stretch In'-'lhc ranks,' If every - SVashJngton -¿rain: trùstér had to earii' hïs living fàr 
la -:in'stëàd-Mi)f i'Béte Îià'd to
he-would -be: i.. _ ... ______hitherto '. "considered beneath his dignity and-calling. And deflation of the-ego-is one thlng-a-college ed­ucation does npt always,: Include. —The pail^';Gilifomta,h.. ).
A sophomore at Cornell, asked-- how he coiildi differentiate a pro­fessor from a . Student.^^osw.er^d, “ask: him whatV'il.’- 'la,' an4:rif -he says .‘It’ is a , pronoun, he's pro-
is a gloriiled" A1 Capone. To in power,; lie employs on. the whole th&. Eftne! methods—.terror.” :
The papers speak of a possible military.. control, of Jugoslavia. How ;else' caif'a; country which has been held* in check" by force and terror be kept intact A Icing who has been a. dictator is- suddenly snatched from the picture^ leaving ft group of. bewildered “yi&'a-nien” to carry on. Only by fortfe will these
: A - psychology:, study:: at .P.urdu6Unierslty. ; attributes the.-r<ai;s^a _of 
student -worr};ito: .'flnaoces ¿0: per. centi-grades 42- perjc cent,-famll® ifffttrs-. lö ;per: cent, ;I«v,e).affairsj¡9 per. .cent, .and .religion.-;^ :perucenti
jtudentss ÇÔr.-hlôodÎ,.'ü^ngïiÎ6j6n^
arsity: ...The' W.' c:‘ T-. :tT.‘.has sen enlisting the aid of science i determine - it .thè' alcoholic-, cou­nts. of lipallck is, Sufficient ..to ake It lntojd'catiñg: :;i; ' '
people,.who.have :béen\th^s'iexjp^ÀtÇl
nothing tough about my throat JhafsThere's nothing t 
why I smoke Oldi says^J

---------------------------------------------------

THE
TUESDAY
QUARTERBACK
• © ¦¦...¦
BY JERRY HANSON
IN THE BEAUTIFUL surroundings of Michigan State University In East taneing, J.he Carnegie football teaiu staged a fight which, will be remembered lor years lo come. .Tbe. State lads made Up one tough ball club, and for pure offensive playing they had It all over the Plaid. But the Tartans held out with such determination that.it tools all-the Spartans reserve and the .first- half peridd to wear the. Scot ranks phys^ ically to a point where the State threats could be made good. The Michigan aggregation, accomplished in every phase ot the art of foot­ball, deserved to win, but to Carnegie we .offer the loudest ovation purely for its Btnnd when faced by overbearing odds.
TINY TIM Terebus ' the fact that the Spaj played a pretty good offensive game, and was brilliant'on the defense. Doloway .was prominent, and he eaused the State team some discom­fiture in getting through, the line for some excellent smearing. Lewis showed up again in theusual light, setting the Spartan runners, on the ground for frequent losses. Mltim’s Kicking' deserves plenty of merit. Big Joe got off some swell boots, which were made less effec-only because of State'si back the punts. One. of Jo<
ouchdowne whileIn there. Why he was jerked'is a mystery, which ranks with he Sphinx. Many of the. players on the Tartan string seemed erworked,. and It is wondered at that th<that of the Sphinx.
Test while some second stringers enjoyed thè useful .experience.of sub­stitution. Doloway played a-whale of à game, but he couldn't help ¦weakening after undergoing the contindoiis battering which that posi­tion Is wont to receive. Meanwhile, some, of the .boyé'are missing entirely the diréct contact, of playlng.ln the. game, and aré forgetting the ways to respond to thè football Instinct.
ALL THE INJURIES of the game were-not very' serious. . In fact most ot them-were merely charlie horses, inflicted by the weight of thè ¿¡tale team's men when falling on our boys«, Terebus and Lewis oach left the field with a case of cramps in the legs. . Paul Moore, however, was less luck?, - for .he got into thè géme just long enough to receive .a kick in the face, causing'his . immediate removal from the field, and the taking of three stitches in his forehead. '
s of the players stampeded :the side lines v and all. Graham and Bill Stearns sounded good to rooters. The NBC hook-up was quite a surpi Namee wa© q
tethered Tartan st of them. Me- hich the. ladies from II. He seemed quite enthu- : players'for thé announcers Ex-Coach Wally Steffen, ex-ed two yearsThe Michigan Stattprecision..band was snappy as they go. It marched with and formed an M. S. C. with no, more trouble th;“squads right." The Spartan crowd effervesced school spirit. Thi cheers were loud and precise—really stupendous.
AFTER THE GAME .. . . Canada and the rest. Some nice people -were met The.rlde home was brightened by the discovery of a stow­away. Naughty-boy Clyde - Giechel was. the culprit, alias the "early- rlng poker-player." The idea wasn’t so bad, but it 'roysed everyoneAt the improper hour of two a. iised the trainmen
nifty ,:ntatioTHE Y. M. C. A. WAS RESPONSIBLE f< of the grid-graf. The stage was set on the curve of the "di the Forbes Street-Cut corner, of the Brown House. A bar was put up at the entrance to the'stable proper, and cider, doughnuts and popcorn balls were served, gratis. A happy throng of sixty Techites .enjoyed thé' affair.' The game was Interpreted as the account eam6 over NBC. ,iNlce golpgl " .
THE SOPHOMORES will have some reason for Ignoring those husky jlebe footballers now: The 18 to nix victory of the Plaidettes over .the Kisfcl prep, squad will give the freshmen a; little-needed official excusé ior-sappearing- sans regulations, as the tradition goes. • Passing, and speed on the run were the outstanding parts: of the plebes’ game. Coach O’Toole won’t let ou.t any' inBide dopé on ihe boys. He doesn’t want them to become ' bàrrei-heàded, which is indirectly promising.
Spartans Beat Plaid 
In Hard Fought Fray 
Showing Each Strong
Bad Breaks Put Tech 
On . Defensive For 
Most of Game
Notre Dame Next On Tartan List; 
Showing Usual Class, Beats Purdué
Kicking By Mihm 
Keeps Score Dowii
Tartans Display Uncommon 
Strength and Fight in 
Holding Spartans
The Carnegie grldders lost onè of the cleanest and hardest fought games of. the season to Michigan State, at the Michigan team's home, stadium at Lansing, last Saturday. Although the Tartans were finally beaten by a score of 13-0, they put up a great fight, und managed to keep their opponents from scoring throughout the whole of the' first half.
The Spartans proved themselves tu be the superior team, beyoud doubt, for their team-this season is One of the best in their gridiron history; So far this season they have won throe successive games. Last-week' they .started the on­slaught which is dragging Michi­gan University off its pinnacle at tbe top of the Big. Ten.
Plaid Best on DefenseThe. Plaid outfit showed up to the beBt advantage when they were in the most precarious , positions. Their best playing of the afternoon was done when the Spartans had forced their way down the Held un­til the line of scrimmago -was in the shadow of the Carnegie . goal posts. Several times thé Michigan State drlveB got within scoring dis­tance, but the Tartans braced them­selves, as if they were backed up against a stone wall, and drove ofC the onslaught, in the third period, however,, the. dreadnaught machine ot the Spartans became too power­ful; and: they .put over their one touchdown. Later in the same chapter, they added to the score by making a successful attempt for a field goal. -
’ Spartans Deserving
The statistics of the game Bhow that the Michigan team undoubted­ly deserved the victory, for it cer­tainly outplayed-the Tartans in .all manner of- comparison The first downs for Michigan State totalled 17, while , the Tech team managed lo make only five, and the yards gained from scrimmage were 276 as compared to 65. Only in punting were the Spartans outclassed. Joe Mihm. put forth spine of his - best efforts, and his kicks were really something • to talk about. In the , third quarter, Mihm got off à punt which, carried 93 yards for one of the ïnOBt beautiful kicks seen in a long time In- a total of ten punts, Mihm averaged- 42 yards.
Stevie Terebus was once . morti the outstanding man on the field for the Tartans, but' he was. very ably assisted by the whole team hi getting away àlth what he: did. For- the Spartans, Ed Klewlcki. proved himself to be a really great ball­player. At bis position at end, he stood out.by far as the best player of the day.
Tartan Harriers 
Begin Practicing
Freshman Candidates Urged 
To Report Immediately
The cross-country call for both freshman and varsity candidates Issued last week and, accord-
A strong aggregation should.
improvement withpractise, and several promising sophomores fro:» last year’s plebe . team look like (hey might be of great help In
for the Bquad to report to Coach Halforty in the gym and start to work The sport ' ular one and, whether experienced or not, the man partlcipatibg in either meets or practises is assured of healthful exercises. Numerals are awarded to freshmen and small varsity letters to upperclassmen registering the necessary, number of points in the course of .thi son. Any freshmen considering track for the coming spring should report for cross- .preliminary instruction in the fine points of running, as this Is really a pre-season practise for the Plaid cindermen. Coach Halferty urgi all plebes with any ability, whether experienced or not, to tryout,It is not an overstrenuous sport < does not involve the purchase of expensive equipment on the part of the candid: 'At the present time there are six outstanding plebe the team. Those lads, who have been doing promising-, work,.Crotsley. pan Supon,.Dave
A freshman at Marshall College raised a minor rumpus when he wrot.e an authoritative theme ón
Tartan Fïe&hmen 
ffîiii From, Kiski
Uncovering à'. snìooth passing at­tack. the. Carnegie freshman röot- defeáted the Klskl Prep
Rosenthal netted two touchdowns for Tech while a run by Natelan, who looks' like a. vory promising ba.ckfleld man, resulted in Ihe other score. In the last minutes of the game, Coach O’Toole sent in his •eseryes .to.combat the repeated a
showings from these boys it this game is an Indication of their po tential abilities.The lineup of Friday’s game fol-
L.T.......Snminlio.............J CamlmlL.G.......Keller......................... MndilC..........Miskivis .......................PaulR.-G... .Gartz.................... SchmittR.T......Sutherland .. ScliocnbaumR.E......DIDominlco .. .. Robinson(Jin......Kopsack.............. HnrkleasLH.........Natelan .lt.H.........Fayer ..F.B.......Yeknlck .
(From all appearances at tho 
dinner :last Monday night,', the W. 
A. A. Is developing Into a bigger 
end belter organization, than over 
before—at.least It will be better in 
the football stadium, tfiough some 
folks.may still be wondering, what 
football has .to .do with women's athletics. 1 must say that wo gave surprisingly. good demonstration our cheering ability I'm sure that our cheerleader's heart must have swelled with pride at our gen­erous , respouse. Coach' Harpstnr, however, was the high light ot tho occasion when, in silent roply to his little pep-talk, tie received our pledge of cooperation la boosting his team t-p victory. .Now. that these glorious, colov-
Calls Made For 
Tank Candidates
Mr. Risedorph, coach of 
the varsity and ' freshman 
swimming teams, has issued 
the call for varsity candi­
datos for Monday, Octobcr
is beginning to round out into a well formed team. The call has also been issxied to candidates for freshman man-
p. in. or Fridays at 5:30 p. m.
Tech Barber Shop
Craig and Forbes 
Oakland
IHaufl’a
Students’, Artists’ and Engineers’ Supplies 
School Seal Jewelry and Stationery
Wo men’s Athletics
S q jA
MARGIE GREÈftthe courts on our .way to the Hut It would almost seem like the gon'il i>ld summer Ume to he playing again, wouldn’t .itt -I notice that
are lucky, you might still be play­ing at Christmas: time, or should I say, Thanksgiving?
Tennis became so popular last 
Spring that Miss liuseel decided to 
give instructions.during gym aWlluS an idea which proved so profitable that she will probably repeat it this year,.
. By the way. I’ll lot you in on a little surprise, in store for you next spring (wo hope). • The W. A. A.
will be entitled to the ex­clusive .use ot & brand.new tennis .court which la now undor construction-vn the. h....bwhlnd the Brown Housed. Perhaps'-you have been -wondering what those -work" - men up - there have been .'digging for; lately,' and now you know. JuBt be caréful .that you don't let them àlstraot you. (as they do nié) when you are trying to study'ln theHut, 
Tho court wiil be.of composition 
material (always a big help m ' 
damp weather),, and consequently 
will solve, the Inevitable, problem., of rolling and. lining.- Another at­tractive feature, is the fact that anyone, providing.she is a member . of the W. A A, may play ireé. of charge . .The present system - of . points will be continued—JJ5 points awarded for thé quarter finale, GO. for the- semi-finals, and 76 for the flnalB. .The. tournament . tor this fall will, lake place eomotiino In the near future. Keep watchlilg
New England found that tho lamps crimped their style. With eimplo but destructivo loeio they decidcd to extinguish tbe lumps
HURRY 1 HURRY!
A flood had cnpplcd three important electrio motors in the refinery of a largo oil company on the ¡Bland of Aruba, SO milca uorth of tho coast of Venezuela. Tho plant had to bo shut down until new coils could he installed. Losses caused by tho shutdown ran into thousands of doliate a day. An order for the coils and word of the refinery’s predicament reachcd Conerai Electrio in Schonectody, N. Y., on o Sunday morning. Work began immediately, and by dint of night shifts and a great concen­tration of'efforts, the two-and-one-holf-week job wuB completed in three days. The'808» pound shipment of coils, convomontly packed in small cartons, was flown in a chartcreaplono from Schenectady to thè Newark. airport, where it was transferred to an Eastern Air Lines plane bound for Miami. On Wednesday aing the cartons were transferred ‘
hop
ies. Their dim was so good that repairmen of iho utility which serviced tho lights could hardly keep up with llicir doprcdatioaB. Finally, G-E illuminating engineers were called in to design a fixture to foil tho stono-throwing llomeos. Theso engineers' produced a cast- aluminum guard, winch looks very uiuch like
»Rs uLBm.u
The.artiCoiol lightning boys have beaten nilightning in ono regard, at any jato. Engineers in the General Electric high-voltage laboratory have produced discharges of a auartcr of a mil­lion amperes, which is greater than the current - of any .aiicot lightning stroke yot recorded.
:cived by (conerai xJe tion College,.’!!» and (
have been asked 1 foma, but novcr befoi against Cupid. Thishow it came.about: > did their courting in tain lighted roads in
of any .ducot lightning stroke yot recorded. Jnst as natural lightning,. with amporogo almost as groat, destroys that which it strikes, so does tho laboratory discharge; and just.aa natural lightning is. accompanied by thunder, the laboratory bolts have their ear*splitting crashes. A copper wiro a tenth of an inch in diameter is completely vaporized. A similar piece of iron wiro io “exploded," tho remaining ends continuing white hot for soveral sccoods. A section of rcinforccd concrete is broken into bits. The hnndlo of a silver-plated ice cream spoon vanishes with a shower of sparkB, Theao engineers wero tho- first to produce 10,000,OOO.volt artificial lightning discharges, and they are continuing their studies through these high-current discharges, in.order, to find hotter means of protecting alee trio distributionKitems. K. B. MoEacbron, Ohio Northern, ’13, rduo, *20, M.S., is director of the laboratory, and associated with him in those tests aro: AV. L. Lloyd, Rensselaer Polytechnic Ini’18; J. L. Thomasoi............... ¦“*Harding. U. of Arize land, Yale, '29.
GENERAL |§| ELECTRIC
Notre Dame has always one of the biggest obstacles in the path of the Plaid grldders, and from
thè up and up. AVIth this new coaching staff and plenty of material to work with.
s-Purdue game last Saturday
teams scored on. fumbles so that the game was iiot much of an indi­cation of'the'strength
seemed to lack coordination. How­ever, this-seonis to-haveibeen.j «rod up during the past week,
That game between Notre Dame and Purdue may 'prove to be the means for measuring' the strength of the Plaid team, for Purdue fol­lows Notre Dame on the Sklbo schedule. Just how well or how poorly the team shows up against Notre Dame may be some Indica­tion of what to expect the following week.Ajothgr..future opponent of the
Carnegie Soccer 
Hits Good Pace
The .Carnegie varsity soccer team' Is.‘making rapid.^stride's,toward! be? coining formidable -teaVfi ., T>Juss Evans, an old time English soccer player, ie coaching the club. About twenty-two ¦ candidates have report­ed ior practice and are- working ^ut daily. ' While no attempt has.
Reed, Greene. Prenden. aiid' Ca.D-. tain Freddie Dubln have been ..workicg; together as.a «nit and ftp: pear to form the nucleus .of a bet- /ter-than average aggregation. Can- J wanted.- Report anyan . the - mushball. field........................being made-up whichwill.-probably y-liiclude-gamesvwitli
.* ter-than averag Adidates are w¡
„ /day at ,4:30 or :\A schedule is I
EDdNrF AUeghenr.'iSllppery, Boot,
Tartans did not fare so well this 
past week. New’York University 
was badly swamped by a team from 
West Virginia Wesleyan. Tho N. 
Y.“U. .team made its only score 
early in the game when a success­
ful attempt was made for a field 
gol. The rest of the game was un­
doubtedly In the possessiou of.the 
West Virginia'outfit, however, and 
they finished up with a score of 
21-3.Témple University pAyed India­na to a 6*6 tie. Each team opened' up during the'game, Temple usln¿ un aerial attack throughout. The iva.ll want back and forth in a puw.t- Ing exhibition. ¡The Temple line suuwiju up'to be quite strong., puquesne beat a tough Bison ag­gregation last ' Friday nlfclit 'on Forbés.Field, .The Bucknoll squad .held for three quarters of the game, but . succumbed to a 'sustained f»$- yard drive during the fourth. The second, scose was on a pass inter­cepted'by the Hilltoppers, which' «totaled them 12 points to 0. Eacii óf tUe teams showed powerful line*.
HEALTH BULLETIN]
1. . Learn, to Relax. ..Relaxation is thé greatest ene- - my of fatigue.2. Set up. a wholesome, healthfulphilosophy of life.3. Concentrate on a task unIs conquered. Meet problems by activity rather than by day dreaming.
DINE and DANCE 
;S GRILL
MURRAY AVENUE and DARLINGTON RÓAb
Home Cooked Food Moderate Prices
NO COVER CHARGE
there's nothing io stop .ME
Ofcourse, yon could takeBiU’s sister 
to the Home Game .and Dance*« 
¿r whàt’a-Tier-name, thé professor’s 
daughter. But fibw 'much better 
to telephone the-Girl Back Home 
and invite herí -The cost is tri» 
fling if you take advantage of the 
low Station to Station Night Rates»
MM
Crop
7fyTSZftmfo
JLou get in Luckies the finest Turkish-and 
Domestic tobaccos that money can buy—only 
the clean center leaves—for these are the mild* 
est. leaves-r- they tost more r- they taste- better.
, “It’s toasted”
'V Your throai Protection—against trHialton—ogatnst awth
ây«ai

---------------------------------------------------

THE CAKVEG1F. TABTAN, TUESDAY, OCTOBER 16, 393*
THE 
C ARNE G IE 
P LAID
Inserte ^ci sf\?tWtajq
The Retiring Council
The elections that bare bees 
"held recently mark the «ad ol the 
tena of office for several of lie 
la embers of the Night Student 
CcosiciL It will be well 10 take 
this opportunity to express lie 
general satisfaction 0x3.1 should 
erist ¦róh regard 10 the fine work 
deae by this group. Many of tie 
225r roles and retaliations pDrenj- 
ing elections. eligibility. tbe use of 
official ballots ass similar actions 
iaiea by tbe retiring Council areof their efToiBible
tire night student body. The Plaid wishes to join inti tbe nigbt stodeats in coagTatulatmg tie members of tbe Council tor tbeir good work. and express tbeir ap­preciation for tbeir efforts.
Beginners
Sisee we all hare to bejSa some time Tvith any new idea or project we wish to carry ont. we mar as -well appreciate that there reali?
?-those stui to indulge in e-Tbra-curricular jjtj^ ia' activities, bet who are coatiau- ally putting off getting started ra­ta “tie a ext function.’' Tier Bhocld remember ibst tie Insignia Atrard of the Nigfci Student Ccn&- dl is. awarded on a point basis, and that -while tie aamber oi points rO'Tnired are not great, it is almost impossible to schirre a sui- fiaeat number if tbe worker gets off to a late start. For this reas&a. those interested should begin at cot*? 1« <^voj«?r3ie -witi —-e Ce­cil and tbe oSIeers of their re­spective college ia lie Trunk that
Contributions
While running tbe risk of bec-om- ing boring by again bringing up this time TTorn subject, -we must again inienn the stadeat body
Idle Thoughts 
of an 
Idle Night 
Student
Ycii'rr telling me?
That the ConncD referred a wooden knocker last year. Well, rn -wondering who created, the
be glad to parchase a plate or sil; Ter so as to aáüx my name ia bonor of tbe doaor. that is. pro- Tjded the gift of tie token were
: honored by bei
and records ¡ I am going 1 : two donatio)-1 bsj
That tbe past three issue? of tbe Tanaa are huadingers. "Who said the depression -was here? liosks as if the bottom has dropped out of gloom aad -we are ha-ring old times back. "Why. 1 hardly have tine to read all the Tartan news. Goes? Til ha-re to speed up jay reading so as to keep abreast ol
t the College Comic f i the lime light for sals bere’6 where 1 shine, can be found' anywhere
ng their ctutîT you'll 1
Thal, I forgot to mention. some- jotiy gypped me. I didn't receive Dj- copy of tie handbook daring and judging from all
Reference Department 
Source of Informotion
Students are frequently required to do «teasive reference reading is. connection ¦with tbeir school work. Tbe Carnegie Library and “The cormbatiOBS should be care- ì Hut” ?re so well supplied -with rel- £aBy -written and submitted in
Industries To 
Vote Saturday
Officers To Be Elected 
At Smoker in Union
The College or Industries -will 
bold tbe first affair of the current 
social season on Saturday evening, 
October 20, is lie Union on the 
third floor of tbe Administration 
bail ding. This **01 be tie anneal 
smoker aad election. These al­
lairs haTe heretofore been much en­
joyed and -well attended, and it is 
tbe earnest wish of tie committee 
that this be tbe largest aad best 
attended election smoker ever held 
oa the campus.
He chief reason for holding tie 
Einoker is lor the election of school officers. This should not be lost tie slgbl of those attending. Tbe
lie ballots cast with tie idea mind that those elected to office ¦will be truly representative of tbe students of tie electoral group. In view of the new regulations re­cently issued by Council
Council Votes Sam 
For Two Projects
Endowment Fond Gains $275 
By Recent N-S.C. Action
At the last meeting of tbe Night 
Student CoonciL a action was pre­
sented and approved whereby the 
Council agreed to contribute the 
of T100 toward lie erection of 
tbe proposed ‘ Activities Building, 
swelling tie stun for that purpose 
wS23.S0. Another action of Coauril was the presentation of toward tie cost of redecorat­ing and refurnishing Thistle wait While stem will aot ctrver the entire cost of tie work It is felt that it will express tie Interest of
eligibility of caadl-for tbe st i the previous records of the men th« they in-
The smoker wül also provide students with an opportunity to ram sooB of tie points necessary for obtaining tie Night Student
interested in working for these re­quired poiats should present ibem-
The presentation of your regu­lation card is all that is necessary o gain entrance to this allair.
Decision Reached 
On Representation
Night Student Council Votes 
On Important Subject
The question of representation under the new set-up of Eagin&er-
at the last meeting of the
Coeds at Duke University com­plained of the table manners aad actions of the student waiters.them Three of Tbe South's leading gridmen. Duke Tarsity 
football players immediately led a large group of men students in a > speak or dance
•equested. They sb. typewritten in doable spaced form, a carbon copy seat to the Night Student Council. Several contributions have been received were not signed. Naturally, nbt kuoTrinj; tie name of tie con­tributor it win be impossible to jcrsilit tie author of tie article for ids- w<jrk. Be sure Jo sign yeur coa-
Registration Figures 
Skote Large Increase
Perhajis one of tie most encoar- reports ol the trend xoward higher edctstion that been is­sued since tie beginning of tie de-
the same period last year. It is Tecy pleasing to all concerned aote the upward
all kiad^ that thej ‘ormatioa oa almost any subject in lie mass of books, technical papers and period- that in many •aflable material is Tolumiaoas. that ti^-student has Iroable is picking out tbe
While theses repaired of tbe caadi- tbe Bachelor of Science Degree in the night school do not necess2T- ' coatain original material, i
> of all ties as are available i either one. cr boli of the lihra- es, aad students who baTe library Assigaments will often £ad that by referring to these theses lie: and effort, aad
s total registration is ex-
College of Industries 767. Coliege of 3%ie Arts 57-L - r'isures £or a cmparatire period of last year are College of Eagineer-
ith the College of Engineer­ing, the Conncil has issued the fol lowing statement: “The College Of Engineering shall embrace only de­gree courses aad the College of industries shall include the voca­tional and general studies groups unless otherwise noted by the Di­rector of Night Courses." The Coi-
Here’s a story coming from the Ohio State campus: An EnglishprofeRsor at thai institution called
alter the class been- dismissed, aad asked la a harsh voicewhether he Sn?w tie essay he banded in was one of Emerson's. The boy tarred white and said ia
material they wish t
Is recognition of his 50 years of service at State Teachers’ CoiIe6e> Fannville, Ta, Phillip Ward, gro head cook, has been awarded
ibere is yet some hopes for :
School Reminiscences 
'Sought by Plaid Staff;
about telling os about some of the
l»n7 things used to go around here away back when. Why not send in mm» material for publication oa . the Plaid page? The staff would " appreciate nothing bitten its.a some good old ¿rarcs ahoat what •‘¿¡and how things used to happea aroond Carnegie. Such articles• will bold'a greiit amount of inter-- est icr the readers and ihei knowledge gained should help the, present students in forming a gooo | ¦' background as to the general his­tory of ihelr school. This is not to . mention lie entertainment gained ' by tie mere reading of these• stories which are sure to coniaia tints of humor sprinkled througb-
¿¦Piaid Intends -X& MdU 
Pictures of Officers
i short 'his- of oarfi uieinber elected to the NI^iL Student Council will be a weeklv feature at this pap^ ginning in toe near future- Tbe article will cover the entire Coun- rfi g»aff one -esch- veek.» ^nth the president and¦" continuing * throughout the entire persoaneL
Tiese- articles will be presented l .iman aUeanpt u> acquaint - night students with
OC Che 1,046 applicants
hiiti“I got it ÎTK
C.S. EDMAN 1
PRINTER ! 6470 Monitor Street !
[Ljbertg Engraving Gompangf
HALF-TONES ETCHINGS \ 
COLOR PROCESS PLATES. \ 
PHOTOGRAPHY. V 
COLOR. NEWS «nà COMMERCIALI
CathedralMansions
DINING ROOM 
/er SUNDAY DINNER
A delicious meal, 
served well, in a | 
pleasant place— |
BREAKFAST. LOMCH AND 
OlHHEtl EVEBV OAY
/trPmdt P.'a
Call MISS DRISCOLLForäiesCTsäoaä—i£A.s£aiv«r StSO 
EHymstb Avesse sad Ojdc Sacs
Didja Notice
THAT it won’t be long now until all of the elections are over. Tbe strain has been ter­rific, but all hands are present.
ves a big hand.official ballots Deahl Deabl itzy though?
THAT what with St. Louis in 
centrate on the lo?al pigskin*
s -thirl and III be
A dean at the Unive.-sity of Ne-
ignorance, aad faculty iateliigeace. ‘kept them waiting.
Prerequisites 
Ara Abolished
Chicago TJ. Meets Demand 
Of Special Students
In a recent news article clipped 
from a Pittsburgh dally, vre learn 
that tie Chicago University has banished so-called Ted tape ia dis­pensing eduction. This University seems id be taking the initiative as regards education ia a great many respects, its latest move is along the same lines.Prerequisites are often stumbling blocks ia education aad heretofore this iron-bound rule or code has been ia operation. Now. however, tie Chicago . University is permit­ting students to register for courses without m eetdng any of tbe required snbjects. This system is ia opera­tion for those students who are not seeking degrees. Suci students arc designated as “students-al-large.” An that needs to be done by lie ap-| plicaat is LO show that study of the particular course would be of pro.1t
While the action of tie heads of lie Chicago University in dispens­ing wi;h tie prerequisite system isi the ientirely new. m Carnegie, in the night
to meet the needs of applii deals by offering conn teria fashion. That is. iaite program for a particul; coarse is mapped out. a stude; need sot follow that program, large number of our students con
Carnegie is doing all possible arraage matters jt aid the stadeat. Tbe Pittsburgh district is being read ere d a Tery commendable serv­ice by the Carnegie Institute of Technology in this manner, by aid­ing employes. &rsi to consolidate their positions, and secoadly toi_halwini thei
mmdie a def-1
The Psychology Department of ;
'Yeah! 1 know they’ve got a bigger 
house, a bigger mortgage, and a football captain, 
but one of our brothers has a FORD V*8'
"dates“ thal
Announcing the Opening oí ¡
• Ye Campus Barber Shoppe |
IModem Equipment 
Efficient- Service 
Fair Prices
• Ye Campus Beauty Shoppe 
9 The Students’ Book Co-op
(Formerly Located in Skibo Tnn)
Corner Margaret HoiTison Street and Forbes 
Below Woodlawn Pharmacy Phone Ma. 3921
FORD ttV8"
BUY YOTTB
NEW
From.........McKlNLEY-GREGG
447 NORTH CRAIG STREET 
Any and AM Makes Taken in Trade
LIBERAL ALLOWANCE . . . TERMS TO SUIT 
~ Complete
DAYand NIGHT SERVICE 
¦>— MA. 6042
SERVICE DEPARTMENT
3875 BIGELOW BLVD.
USED CARS
3 A A I^te Models To * v» ^ Select From
*25 to *2500 Tr~r
USED CAR DEPARTMENT
5638 BAUM BOULEVARD
K
Peoples- 
Pittsburgh 
Trust Co.
Oakland Branch
Forbes and Meyran
“THE OAKLAND 
BANK”
?
IN THE 
CENTEfi OF 
COLLEGE 
ACTIVITY 
?
MTTM-R-gR FEDERAL 
RESERVE SYSTEM
air enou,
F
IOM time to time we tell you facts 
about Chesterfield Cigarettes.
We say that Chesterfields are different 
from other cigarettes-—that the tobaccos 
are different, the paper is different, and 
the way they are made is different.
Everything that modem Science kmros
igh-
about or that money fan buy is used in 
making Chesterfield a milder, better-tast­
ing cigarette—a cigarette thzt Satisfies.
You can pro^e xclidt we 
tell you about Chesterfield.
May wee ask you to try them 
—that tcould seem to he fair enough.
.;i •
the cigarette that’s MILDER 
the cigarette thät jBujMu lMjjMm
@ iSM. ticM.'r & Utas Tosass Co.
SATGftDAT 
KINO CRETE
PONSE1XE MASTINI STOECKCOLDj 
KQSTOJLNETZ OKCHESTKA AND CHORUS \
S P. M. (E.S. T.) -^COLCaiBU JKTWClt -S
