* C A R NE G I ETARTAN
CARNEGIE INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY
VOLUME 59 — NUMBER 19WEDNESDAY, MARCH 4, 1964
66
Y" international Firesides 
Y" international Firesides To
The YMCA and YWCA are again sponsoring a series of 
International Firesides during the month of March. Meet­
ing in faculty homes, the Firesides provide an opportunity 
for both American and overseas students to enjoy good con­
versation in an informal atmosphere.
Firesides this month will be-^; 
gin at 7:30 and will end by 9:30 
p.m. (Women may take a cul­
tural special for this.) In or­
der to insure a small group to 
make informal conversation pos­
sible, each Fireside will be limit­
ed to four American and four 
overseas students. Reserva­
tions will fee taken on a first- 
come-first-s'erve basis; thus in­
terested students are urged to 
sign up immediately.
The three faculty families 
opening their homes for Firesides 
in March are: for Friday, March 
6. Dr. and Mrs. James Houghtel- 
ing; for Sunday, March 8, Dr. 
and Mrs. Hugh Young; and for 
Sunday, March 16, Dr. and Mrs. 
Richard Cyert. Dr. Houghteling 
is Associate Professor of Econom­
ics and Government; he has stud­
ied and lived in France, and has 
traveled widely abroad. Mr^. 
Houghteling has taught at Tech, 
and is now Pittsburgh Area Pro­
gram Director for the American 
Friends Service Committee. Dr. 
Young is Assistant Professor and 
Head of the Department of Nat­
ural Sciences in MMCC and is 
Assistant Professor of Physics. 
He is particularly interested in 
music, and plays the piano, or­
gan, and guitar. He is also active 
in the Tech Explorers Club. Dean 
Cyert is Dean of GSIA and Pro­
fessor of Economics and Indus­
trial Administration. He is di­
rector of a large-scale research, 
project sponsored by the Ford 
Foundation studying the behav­
ioral theory of the firm. Dean 
Cyert is also interested in “bon- 
zai”.-— the study and production- 
of minature. plants.
Specific directions for reaching 
the homes of the faculty hosts, 
with transportation arranged, will 
be sent to the students who have 
signed up and have been notified 
that they are one of the eight 
students lor a particular fireside. 
Contact the Y office in 57 Skibo 
for information and reservation.
Best Dressed 
Girl Chosen
— Photo by Jim Pawley 
Friday, February 28, a panel of 
judges elected Ellen Jane 
Schlesinger as the “Best Dress­
ed Girl’* on Tech’s campus. 
Ellen will represent Tech in the 
annual contest sponsored by 
Glamour Magazine.
Wright Discusses Shakespeare’s 
History Plays On March 10
Dr. Austin Wright, professor and head of the Department 
of English, will speak on “The History Plays of William 
Shakespeare,” March 10, at 11:30 a.m. in the Carnegie Theater 
in the College of Fine Arts. The lecture is the second in a 
series of six in which the Department of English will salute 
the 400th nnivaersary of Shake-? 
speare’s birth.
Dr. Wright will treat each of 
the ten history plays briefly and 
dwell on the five greater plays:
Richard III, Richard Q, the two 
parts of Henry IV, and Henry V.
The lecture will include a com­
parative judgement of the merit 
of the plays.
According to Dr. Wright, “his 
history plays celebrate not a suc­
cession of heroes but one admired 
heroine—England herself.” Al­
though Shakespeare believed that 
kings rule by Divine Right, he did
not make his monarchs admirable.
“King Johu is a patchwork,” 
says Dr. Wright. He believes that 
the plays vary widely in quality. 
“Henry Vfll is a fragmentary 
mixture whereas the . two parts of 
King Henry IV are among Shake­
speare’s highest achievements.”
Dr. Wright will conclude with a 
discussion of Falstaff from Henry 
IV, who ironically is Shakespeare’s 
greatest comic character and ap­
pears not in a comedy but a his­
tory play.
Cadet Regiment Chooses Queen; 
Silhouettes Add to Entertainment
Becky BrownNancy FieldsonJean JacobsClaire Ruge
Last Friday, February 28, four finalists were 
selected by an all-school vote for the 1964 Mili- 
tary Ball Queen. The original nine candidates, each 
sponsored by a fraternity or dormitory, had been 
presented to the student body on Thursday at a 
presentation in Skibo. Members ofScabbard and 
Blade served as escorts to the queen hopefuls, 
while Cadet Major Larry Lang was MC to the 
proceedings.
On Thursday, March 5, the four finalists will 
be voted upon by the Cadet Regiment. These four 
finalists, as decided by a student vote, are:
Becky Brown (Sigma Nu), Nancy Fieldson 
(Beta Sigma Eho), Jean Jacobs (Beta Theta Pi), 
Claire Huge (Alpha Tau Omega, Delta Upsiloh).
In addition to the Brad Hunt Orchestra, who 
will be providing the dance music at the 1964 Mill« 
tary Ball, the Silhouettes, a new combo from Pitts* 
burgh, will offer entertainment. Students who have 
not as yet purchased their tickets to this event, 
are urged to do so immediately from any mem­
ber of Scabbard and Blade or at the Military Of­
fice (AH 262). The (tehee is on Saturday, March 7 
from 9:00 p.m. to 1:00 a.m. in the Ballroom of Skibo.
Lewis Reviews 
Civil Rights
John Lewis, the National Chair­
man of the Student Non-Violent 
Coordinating Committee (SNCC) 
will be speaking at Carnegie Tech 
this Thursday to the students for 
Liberal Thought and Action and 
then again on Sunday to the Hillel 
Foundation.
This first meeting will be in 
Skibo at 6:30 p.m., where Mr. 
Lewis will speak on “Hypocrisy in 
Race Relations.” On Sunday, he 
will be speaking at 11:00 a.m. at a 
Hillel Brunch in tlie Staff Cafe­
teria of Skibo. His subject then 
will be “The Role of Religious Or­
ganization in Civil Rights.”
Mr. Lewis’ appearances at Tech 
are part of a speaking tour which 
is bringing him through Pitts­
burgh. While in town he will also 
be speaking at the University of 
Pittsburgh, Chatham, and at en- 
agements of several civil rights 
organizations. He will also make 
appearances on local radio sta­
tions.
Mr. Lewis is well-known for his 
leadership in planning the Wash­
ington March last summer, at 
which he addressed the crowd of 
about a quarter million. He has 
been very active in leading civil 
rights activities in the South, par­
ticularly Alabama, and has been 
arrested thirty-one times in the 
past few years because of this. 
He has also helped organize the 
Nashville sit-ins, which were some 
of the first in the country.
At present, John Lewis is Chair­
man of the Student Non-Violent 
Coordinating Committee, an or­
ganization which is particularly 
known for its voter-registration 
drives in the South. Thsi organi­
zation has also organized -“Free­
dom School” for Negroes in areas 
where educational facilities are 
inadequate.
Inter-Hillel Council Sponsors 
Three Day Institute At Tech
The Inter-Hillel Council of Pittsburgh, comprised of 
Hillel chapters from Carnegie Tech, University of Pittsburgh, 
Chatham, and Duquesne, is sponsoring a Tri-State Institute 
here at Carnegie Tech on Friday through Sunday, March 
6-8. Approximately 70 members from Western Reserve Uni- 
--------:--------------------;-----------------------------? versily, Case Tech, Penn State
jT'fc . | University, and the University o£
mJ 1. A».Uj3en.Stei.n West Virginia will participate.
Will Survey
Existentialism
“Camus and Sartre" will be the 
subject of a series of lectures by 
Dr. Richard Rubenstein, Director 
of the B’Nai B’rith Hillel Founda­
tion and Chaplain to Jewish stu­
dents in the colleges and uni­
versities in Pittsburgh. It will be 
held on Wednesday afternoon,
4:30-5:45 p.m. in Room 46, Skibo, 
beginning March 11 and continu­
ing for six weeks, except for 
Easter vacation. This series of 
lectures will emphasize the con­
tribution of Camus and Sartre, 
who have been in the forefront 
of secular existentialist philosophy 
in this century.
It is co-sponsored by Hillel 
Foundation and the Campus 
YMCA and YWCA, and is open to 
members of any of the three or­
ganizations without charge, or for 
a fee of $3 to non-members. There 
is a limit of* 50 persons and, in 
view of the popularity in preced­
ing semesters of Dr. Rubenstein’s 
lecture series, those interested, 
students or faculty, are urged to 
sign up at the Y office, 57 Skibo, 
as soon as possible.
The theme will be “The Mind of 
the Jewish College Student.” The 
program will encompass the social 
aspects, (including a banquet, a 
folk concert, and a dance) intel­
lectually stimulating discussions 
and speeches, and leadership coun­
selling. The agenda will be as 
follows:
FRIDAY, MARCH 6, 1964 
8:00 p.m.—Services at Heinz 
Chapel with Rabbi Rubenstein, 
who will speak on “The Mind 
of the Jewish College Student." 
ONEG SHABAT — following 
the services — a general “get- 
acquainted session” and social 
gathering.
SATURDAY, MARCH 7, 1964 
9:00 a.m. to 11:00 a.m. — both or­
thodox and reform services 
conducted at Tech (Skibo 
Chapel);
11:00 a.m. to 12:30 p.m. — a talk 
on Leadership by Mrs. Binstock, 
Pittsburgh president of the 
Anti-Defamation League.
1:30 p.m. to 3:00 p.m. —.Rabbi 
Rubenstein will lead discus­
sions on “The Mind of the Jew­
ish College Student.”
3:00 to 4:30 pjn. — Organized 
“Buzz Sessions” on Leadership. 
6:30 p.m. to 6:35 p.m.-—Hav- 
dalah Evening Services.
6:35 p.m. to 8:00 p.m. —- Banquet 
at Skibo Banquet Room.
8:00 p.m. to l:00/a.m. — Folk Con- 
(continued on mJge 5)

---------------------------------------------------

Page 2 CARNEGIE TARTAN — Wednesday, March 4, 1964
BULLETINBOARD
Pi Delta Epsilon
Dr. Dill, Associate Dean of In* 
dustrial Management, will speak 
to members of PI Delta Epsilon, 
journalism honorary. The talk, 
scheduled for March 9, at 4:30 
p.m. in Room 40, Skibo, will con­
cern “Leadership and Organiza­
tion.”
The lecture is open to the pub­
lic.
Explorer's Club
Guys! Gals! Have _ vou scrr.s. 
£dV£ritui'ein your heart? Thurs­
day evening is the Explorers 
Club slide show. Climb Ameri­
ca's beautiful western mountains, 
explore mysterious caves, shoot 
the rapids — all from the com­
fort of your chair. If you want 
to actually climb a mountain 
someday, what better way lo 
start. Thursday, March 5, 7:30 
p.m., Scaife Hallauditorium.
Committee Heads
Student Congress Committee 
heads will meet on Wednesday, 
March 4 at 4:30 p.m. in Room 33 
of Skibo.
Financial Aid
Mr. Blake, of the Financial Aid 
Office, has announced that appli­
cations for scholarships and long- 
.term loans for the academic year, 
1964-65, are available in his office, 
AH 150. All students who want 
to be considered for financial aid 
next year, as well as those stu­
dents who currently hold assist­
ance, are urged to pick up an ap­
plication blank as soon as pos­
sible. The application deadline is 
March 15.
If you are in doubt as to 
whether you will qualify for as- 
sislance, fill out an application and 
let us be the judge.'
SAE Week
Twenty - seven technical and 
panel sessions covering passen­
ger cars, automobile bodies, ma­
terials, manufacturing engineer­
ing, and production will make 
up the program for 1964 SAE
The Largest Selection of 
Imported and Domestic 
Tobaccos — in the City
CARNA CEGI
3725 Forbes St. 
681-6045
NJtionJlly 
Advertised Pimes
NOW SHOWING
I ^cfewes; SfèitiagT DEPi 
¦ESkeher; : 
ShES MINE &££
— ALSO —
THE UtfitSCH CQUPWii *e<>*\juLBftimnEH
CARNEA GISTUNUO
SHIR1EÜ AltnE FIEU)
"f OFTHpJ§»
CMMtlKUUE
CARNEGGI6E8'GS
Automobile Week, to be held 
March 30 through April 3 at the 
Sheraton-Cadillac Hotel in De­
troit. For information write to 
the Society of Automotive En­
gineers, Inc., 485 Lexington Ave., 
New York 17, N.Y.
Oakland's Only Theatre
Women's Club
The Women’s Club of Carnegie 
Tech will hold its monthly meet­
ing On Wednesday, March 4, at 
1:00 p.m. in Skibo, on the Caiv 
negie Tech campus.
~ "A^nël 6Ì ffMêrfcà’fis,” 5K in­
terracial and interreligious group 
of Carnegie Tech students, will 
present the program. Mrs. F. E. 
Milligan, dean of women at Car­
negie Tech, will be in charge.
Composers Forum
The third in the series of Com­
posers Forums being presented 
by the Department of Music of 
Fine Arts, Carnegie Tech, will 
be held on Saturday afternoon, 
March 7, at 3:00 p.m., in Car­
negie Music Hall. v
Karlheinz Stockhausen, leading 
exponent and pioneer of elec­
tronic and experimental music, 
will be introduced to Pittsburgh 
in the third of the four concerts 
of contemporary music.
The Contemporary Music For­
ums, now in their third yearj are 
under, the direction of Nikolai 
Lopatnikoff, professor of music 
at Carnegie Tech. The concerts 
are free and open to the public.
Dames
The regular jnonthly organiza­
tional meeting of the Tech Dames 
will be held on Tuesday, March 
10, at 8:15 p.m. in the Wherrett 
Room of Skibo. Highlighting the 
program will be a talk on **Hair 
Beauty Especially for You” by Mr. 
Arnold Zegarelli, director of ad­
vanced Rair styling at the Coiffure 
Creation Academy. Arrangements 
for the organization’s .annual'in­
ternational Dinner to be held on 
Saturday, April 11 will be dis­
cussed. The wives of all Tech stu­
dents are cordially invited to at­
tend.
Mechanical Engineering
The Carnegie Tech’s Mechani­
cal Engineering Visiting Commit­
tee will meet on Thursday, March 
5, in Scaife Hall of Engineering 
on the campus.
The Applied Space Sciences 
Program and the Metals Rolling 
Program at Carnegie Tech will 
be topics to be presented during 
the all-day meeting. Discussion 
wilJ also include plans for con­
tinued laboratory improvement.
Established in September 1961, 
the'‘ Visiting Committee has two 
major aims: to bring national fig« 
ures in close relationship with the 
activities of all departments and 
divisions of Carnegie Tech; and 
to secure the aid of these com« 
mittees, their counsel and fresh 
viewpoints, in achieving the ob­
jectives of Carnegie.
SNCC
John Lewis, National Chairman 
of the Student Non-violent Co­
ordinating Committee, will speak 
on “Hypocrisy in Race Relations” 
at 6:30 p.m. on Thursday in Skibo 
before a meeting of the Students 
for Liberal Thought and Action. 
All are welcome to attend.
Between Classes or at Study Break . . .
-SCOTTY'S-
g OPEN TO SERVE IQU,
24 HOURS A DAY 
3918 FORBES AVENUE 
• . . and . . •
ROUTE 8. NORTH OF ETNA 7918 PENN AVE.
A.LCh.E. Meeting
The Carnegie Tech student 
chapter of the A. I. Ch. E. will 
meet in the Faculty dining room 
of Skibo on Wednesday, March 4. 
The speaker will be Dr. Carl F. 
Prutton, who will speak on the 
topic of “Adventures in Chemical 
Engineering.” Refreshments will 
• be served after the meeting.
'StarringEasBft
VITTORIO GASSMAN CATHERINE SPAAK
V7//#%y WLlfcRAV AT BEACON SÇ
UHf/tf jA 1 0700
mm M&mmmesmmum
SUIWS 6ULIELIS ¦ Writiat. Produced »kJ fretted by EllAKUAN I 
PRESENTED BV GNASTA CAEUO C
The Shadyside
682-1901
5518 Walnut St.
STARTS FEB. 26th "America, America'
OAKLAND ORIGINAL 
HOT DOG SHOP
JUICIEST & MOST TEMPTING HOT DOGS IN TOWN
• MUSTARD 
« RELISH
• ONION
• PICKLE
• MAYONNAISE
• SAUERKRAUT
• CHILE
• KETCHUP
OUR PRICE INCLUDES ALL TRIMMINGS
19-INCH SUBMARINE 
GOLDEN BROWN ONION RINGS 
GOLDEN BROWN FRIED CHICKEN 
SALAD & FRENCH FRIES 
FREE DELIVERY TO ALL DORMS
(MINIMUM ORDER •
621-7388682-8466
OAKLAND ORIGINAL 
PIZZA SHOP
HAMBURGER 15c- PIZZA (per cut) 10c
FREE DELIVERY TO ALL DORMS
(MINIMUM ORDER — 91 .fid)
CORNER FORBES & BOUQUET 621-7388 — 682-8466
CRAFT AVE. THEATER
All Tickets $2.00
HAMLET ST. THEATER
CALCULATED RISK
Intrigue and Betrayal in the world of finance
Seats $1.50 Sat $2.00 Tues.-Sat. 8:30 Sun. at 7:30 
Tickets on Sale at Pitt Book Center 
Reservations 621-4445

---------------------------------------------------

Wednesday. March 4, 1961 — CARNEGIE TARTAN — Pasé 3
Omar Khayyam, Pancake Kitchen, 
Tin Angel,Tea Garden Welcome You
(N.B. This article and several 
following it will feature some 
usual Pittsburgh restaurants and 
their qualifications. Each will dis­
cuss an unspecified number of 
various types of restaurants, with 
atmosphere, prices, location, and 
specialties).
The Home of Omar Khayyam, 
is a restaurant featuring authentic 
Lebanese food. From the outside, 
the place looks like a dive, with 
neon-pasteboard front, marble 
picnic table and wishing well in 
the yard, and.funeral-home awn­
ing to the street. On the inside 
this converted Victorian house has 
a weird charm. The walls are writ 
with strange characters and hung 
with gorgeous tapestries, of Arabs 
on horseback carrying off maidens 
swathed in robes so heavy that 
it’s really impossible to tell that 
they are maidens at all, but one 
gets the idea. The tables are drap­
ed with woven tablecloths, but 
one gets paper nakins and none of 
the dishes is from the same set. 
Knickknacks on the wall con­
tribute to the feeling that you’re 
fitting in some sort of nightmare, 
with the weird Oriental music 
(Hi-Fi) adding something, but I’m 
not quite sure what.
All this fades when the food 
comes. For about $2.00 the single 
course dinner, you receive about 
6 or 7 good-size chunks of mar­
velous lamb filet on the skewer 
on which it was cooked (charcoal 
broiled), rice and pignolia nuts and 
bamboo shoots (which is heaven­
ly), a salad of spices, mint, pars­
ley,, oil, tomatoes, vinegar on let­
tuce (utterly, unlike anything 
you’ve ever had and very good), 
huge flat slices of warm bread 
(but getting any butter is next to 
impossible), pastry (sesame flour, 
pstachio nuts, honey) and either 
Oriental or American coffee (order 
the Oriental only if you know you 
like it). One c$n also have grape 
leaves, stuffed; assorted vegetables 
made up with tomato sauce and 
meat; and some other, but not 
many desserts (most of the things 
are explained in the menu; others, 
tantalizingly, aren’t). Definitely a 
take-a-date place (most of the 
restaurants will be classified take- 
a-date, go with-the-boys, take- 
mothe r-and-dad, or only-go- 
when-on-Uncle-Louie’s - expense- 
account).
The Tin Angel is the most beau­
tiful bar in Pittsburgh. Atop 
Mount Washington, niagnificent 
floor-to-ceiling picture windows
overlook the point (for New York­
ers, that’s Gateway Center and 
Point Park and Downtown Pitts­
burgh, where the rivers meet). In­
side, small wooden-wrought. iron 
tables with mosaic tops and bask­
et chairs, very comfortable, are 
provided for customers; under 
low-hanging suspended conical 
lights, you can munch cheeze 
pretzel hors d’oeuvres witth your 
drinks. The Tin Angel also serves 
15 dinners, by reservation only, 
each night, which are reported 
very good and rather highly 
priced. Definitely expense account, 
but well worth the price for the 
view, in seasonable weather, a 
small outdoor porch walk hangs 
over the sheer drop to the river; 
if you’re planning to go out on it, 
do it before you have your drink.
Tea Garden. If you’re looking 
for a bit of the Orient, I’m afraid 
you won’t find it here (Homewood 
isn’t exactly Tokyo or Hong 
Kong). The atmosphere may not 
be quite what you desire from 
a slow boat to China but at least 
the food tastes like it'Tsort of). 
Anyway, from a New Yorker’s or 
a Californian’s view point, it’s just 
about the best Chinese food you'll 
find so far removed from the coast. 
Just think, if you have a car, 
there’s free parking (which you 
wouldn’t find in the crowded 
Orietn), if not, there’s always 
walking. For prices that are only, 
slightly high, you can enjoy such 
Asiatic delights as spareribs, egg 
roll, Won ton soup, fried rice, 
chow mein (any flavor), plus 
gallons and gallons of tea —all 
you can drink (rather all you can 
hold). Accompanying all this are 
dishes of delicious duck sauce 
(out of which one can almost 
make a meal) and really hot 
mustard, which, if eaten in suffi­
cient quantities will make you 
cry so hard an so long that your 
boy friend will be solicitous of 
you for weeks, it’s definitely a
take-a-dale place, as well as a 
take-a-friend.-the-iamily, go-on 
the-expense-account place, or 
anything else you’d care to make 
it.
Pancake Kitchen, opposite Bill 
Heller’s-Weinstein’s. For those of 
you who prefer your breakfast at 
odd hours of the day or night this 
is the place. For moderate prices 
you can have pancakes galore, 
combined with anything your 
heart, or rather your stomach, de­
sires. Plain pancakes or waffles 
may be topped with syrup, rang 
ing from maple and honey to 
boysènberry, and elderberry (did 
you say “Arsenic and Old Lace?”). 
You can top pancakes with choco­
late and whipped créam or ice 
crôam or french fries. And for 
those of you who like odd things 
for breakfast you can even get a 
hamburger with all the trimmings 
They’ve even stolen an old recipe 
from across the street in order to 
serve blintzes. The atmosphere 
lovely muted lights' and Early 
American and chairs and tables. 
There’s even a bar for those who 
prefer their meals on a higher 
plain. It’s pretty much characteriz­
ed as a take-a-Hate place, that is 
if you can stand looking at your 
daté over a breakfast table.
Greta Thyssen 
To Be Interviewed
The former Miss Denmark, 
Greta Thyssen, who is currently 
playing at the Nixon Theater in 
the production of "In One Bed 
and Out The Other,” will be at the 
University of Pittsburgh Student 
Union on Thursday, March 5, be­
tween 3:00 and 5:00 p.m. Follow­
ing a photo session with the 
shapely starlet, there .will be an 
inforrnal question-answer period 
Carnegie Tech's Delta Upsilon fra­
ternity has made arrangements for 
the session with Miss Thyssen.
WHLLY'S
Campus-Favored
MEN
HUSH-PUPPIES
LOAFERS
WELLINGTON BOOTS 
FLORSHEIM
WOMEN
HUSH-PUPPIES
LOAFERS
FLATS
DRESS SHOES
U. S. KEDS
3612 Forbes Ave. (Across from Strand Theater)
A new volume for the student of
romance languages
rAKROW-
From the region made famous in 
bistory and poetry ARROW 
brings this distinctive shirting 
...Khyber Cloth. Woven 
on native looms and 
dyed with the incom­
parable vegetable 
madder hues, it is tai­
lored in our own im­
peccable ivy styling. 
Here is a sport shirt 
for your wardrobe 
that because of its 
distinguished ap­
pearance might end 
up being your 
favorite of them all.
$7,95
Scotch n’ Soda Announces Cast 
For Spring Carnival Production
Scotch *n Soda is proud to an­
nounce the cast members of its 
1964 production. They include: 
Richard Moore, Pat Bonner, 
Barbara White, Chuck Gilmore, 
Becky Smith, Jim Levy, Kathy 
Matter, Adina Rosenfeld, Susan 
Martii^ Martha Hodgson, Gina 
Valletta, Peggy Riva, Carol Haber, 
Mark Liebman, Bill Burdett, Ray
Boorstein, Bob Rubin,. Sylvia 
Floyd, Mike McCoy, Julie Schles- 
singer, Karen Valenn, Irene Liber- 
man, Hillary Hendler, and David 
Hildebrand. .
Rehearsals* for this year’s, show 
get under way next week. The 
show will open in 7 weeks and 
run for 5 nights the week pre- 
ceeding Spring Carnival.
Onfenpg
(Author of "RJlly Round th4 FlJg, Bo \ Jnd "BJrefoot.Boy With Cheek”.)
THE SLOW RUSH
Illustrated below is the membership pin of a brand-new na­
tional fraternity called Signa Phi Nothing. To join Signa PhC 
Nothing and get this hideous membership pin absolutely free, 
simply take a pair of scissors, cut out the illustration, and paste 
it dn your chest.
Let me listen to state that I do not recommend your joining. 
Signa Phi Nothing. The only thing I recommend in this, column 
Is Marlboro Cigarettes, as any honest man would who likea 
'good tobacco and a good filter, whose heart is quickened by a 
choice of soft pack or Flip-Top Box, and who gets paid every 
„ week for writing this column.
I-am frankly hard put to think of any reason why you should 
Join Sigria Phi Nothing. Some people, of course, are joiners by 
nature; if you are one such, I am bound to tell you there are 
any number of better organizations for you to join—the Cosa 
Nostra, for example, or the Society for the Placing of Water 
Troughs in Front of Equestrian Statues.
dtd 11 odâtld^dô it ot¿ iotíráesi
But if you insist on joining Signa Phi Nothing, let me give 
you several warnings. First off, it is the only fraternity which 
admits girls. Second, there is no pledge period; each new mem­
ber immediately goes active. Perhaps “inactive” is a more ao- 
curate word: there are no meetings, no drives, no campaigns, 
no sports, no games, no dues, no grip, and no house.
. The only thing Signa Phi Nothing has in common with.other 
fraternities is a fraternity hymn. In fact, two hymns were sub­
mitted to a recent meeting of the national board of directors 
(none of whom attended). The first hymn goea;
SignJ Phi Nothing,
Shilling stJr,
How we wonder 
If you Jre.
The second hymn, rather more poetic in content, ¡9 to bo 
Bung to the tune of Also SmrJch ZJrJthuslrJ:
A Guernsey’s J cow,
A roJd is J lJne,
When you’re eJting ckowe 
Remember the mein.
Pending the next meeting of the national board of directors 
(which will never be held) members are authorized to sing 
either hymn. Or, for that matter, Frencsi.
Perhaps you are wondering why there should be such a fra­
ternity as Signa Phi Nothing. I can give you an answer—an 
answer with which you cannot possibly disagree: SignJ Phi 
Nothing fills J well-needed gJm.
Are you suffering from mental health? Is logic distorting 
your thinking? Is ambition encroaching on your native sloth? 
Is your long-cherished misinformation retreating before a sea 
of facts?. In short, has education caught up with you?
If so, congratulations. But spring is upon us and the sap is 
rising, and the mind looks back with, poignant longing to tlis 
days when it was a puddle of unreason.
If—just for a moment—you want to recapture those care­
less vaporings, that warm, squishy confusion, then join Signs 
Phi Nothing and renew your acquaintance with fecklessnes9*; 
We promise nothing, and, by George, we deliver itl
We,the mJker» of MJrlboro CigJrettes,mromise smoking en+ 
joyment, Jnd we think you'll think we deliver it—in Jil Hft$ 
jifltei of thi$ Union, MJrlboro Country U ichsrs yeu j

---------------------------------------------------

Page 4 — CARNEGIE TARTAN — Wednesday, March 4, 1964
A Futile Policy
Students sometimes wonder what the real 
purpose of mid-term grades are. They are 
computed at a time in the year that can only 
include one or two exams in each course. 
Usually students have just as many exams in 
the rest of the semester and a final which 
may be weighed heavily. So they do not 
serve as a good indication of the final grade 
achieved. The student could better know 
how he is doing by observing his exam 
grades. But whatever purpose mid-term 
grades may serve, the practice of sending 
them home to the parents of freshmen is un­
reasonable.In the eyes of a freshman’s parents, the 
school emphasizes the importance of these 
grades as an indication of their son’s or
Readers Write
daughter’s performance at Carnegie. The 
exact effect on a final grade that mid-term 
grades have can better be measured by the 
student. Sending these grades home do not 
place the burden of responsibility and matur­
ity on him. It lets the incentive to make 
better grades come from. parental pressures 
and not from the student, who in the end 
must assume that obligation.
The idea presented here is not new and 
unfounded: recently, M.I.T. has discontinued 
sending mid-term grades to parents of fresh­
men. Employing this same procedure here 
would give more responsibility to our stu­
dents as well as reduce the seeming impor­
tance of these grades. M.L.S.
A Candle in the Darkness
By Jeffrey Axelrad
JUNK
Students Attack Cowards, Mongers
article on the Civil Rights fast 
in the February 26 issue. The 
headline read: “Peacemongers 
Plan to Fast for Civil -Rights.” 
A quick glance at any Eng­
lish dictionary reveals that the 
word “monger” cannotes some-
Tartan Errs
Misuses “Monger”
Editor, The TJrtJn:
I would like to call attention 
to the headline over the Tartan’s
This Week In Pittsburgh
MUSIC“The Mazowsze,” March 6, 8:30 p.m., Syria Mosque, 
100 dancers, singers, and symphony, International 
Theater
Duquesne University Faculty Concert, March 8,.
8:30 p.m., Mills Auditorium, Rockwell Hall, 
members of the vocal faculty and the University 
Symphony*
Johann Sebastian Bach, March 11, 8:30 p.m., Mural 
Room, YM & WHA, 315 South Bellefield Avenue, 
Antient Concert Series 
Music of Karlheinz Stockhausen, March 7, 3:00 p.m., 
Carnegie Music Hall*
Organ Recital, March 4, 8:00 p.m., Calvary Episcopal 
Church, 315 Shady Avenue, Donald Wilkins, professor 
of music, Duquesne University*
LECTURES
“Leadership and Organization,” March 9, 4:30 p.m., 
Room 40, Skibo, far. Dill addresses Pi Delta Epsilon 
members*
“The Histories” of William Shakespeare, March 10, 
11:30 a.m., Fine Arts Theater, Dr. Austin Wright, 
Head of the Department of English, Carnegie Tech* 
“The Heat of the Ionization of Water,” March 4, 4:30 
p.m., EH 1112, Frank Millero.
“The Role of Political Reform,” March 5, 8:15 p.m., 
University of Pittsburgh, Professor Robert Wood, 
Massachusetts Institute of Technology*
MOVIES
“The Young and the Damned,” Film Arts, March 5, 
4:30, 7:00, 9:30 p.m., Porter Hall 100 
EXHIBITS
15th-17th century herbals and their woodcuts, co'ntinu- 
ing through March 31, 1:00 - 4:00 p.m. on Monday, 
Tuesday, Thursday, and Friday, and 1:00 - 5:00 p.m. 
on Wednesday, Munt Botanical Library*
Graphics from Germany, continuing through March 6, 
9:00 a.m. to 5:00 p.m. Monday through Friday, and 
9:00 a.m. to noon on Saturday, Porter Garnett 
Gallery*
Lithographic Awards Exhibit, Lithographers and* 
Printers National Association, continuing through 
March 7, 9:00 a.m. to 10:00 p.m. Monday through 
Saturday, and 12:00 noon to 10:00 p.m. on Sunday, 
Skibo lobby*
Faces on the Congo, continuing through semester,
9:00 a.m. to 5:00 p.m. Monday through Saturday, and 
1:00 - 5:00 p.m. on Sunday, Chapel Lounge, Chatham 
College*
Chatham Faculty Art Exhibit, continuing through 
March 20, 9:00 a.m. to 5:00 p.m. Monday through 
Saturday, and 1:00 - 5:00 p.m. on Sunday, Falk Hall 
Foyer, Chatham College*
MEETINGS
American Institute of Chemical Engineers. March 4.
8:00 p.m., Wherrett Room, Skibo*
Mechanical Engineering Visiting Committee, March 5, 
all-day, Scaife Hall of Engineering*
Carnegie Tech Women’s Club, program by Panel of 
Americans, March 4, 2:00 p.m., Wherrett Room, Skibo 
Alpha Epsilon Phi Alumnae Association, March 10, 
12:30 p.m., Skibo Ballroom 
Tech Dames Club Meeting, March 10, 8:00 p.m., 
Wherrett and Highlander Rooms, Skibo.
DRAMA
“Julius Caesar,” March 5-17, 8-:10 p.m., (Matinee, 
March 14, 2:00 p.m.) Fine Arts Theater, Henry 
Boettcher, director*
“The Trojan Women,” by Euripedes, March 5, 6, 8:30 
p.m.,'Chapel, Chatham College, Chatham College 
Department of Drama. ....................
thing petty or discreditable. I 
would like to know how peace 
or Civil Rights can be either.
I suppose your headline writ­
er would rather that Civil 
Rights leaders use bombs, guns 
or other forms of violence as 
their opposition does. Or would 
he rather that these leaders urge 
their followers to turn the other 
cheek-do nothing-as they have 
done for the past 100 years?
Before the Virginia House of 
Burgess,’ Patrick Henry, in one 
of the most memorable speeches 
of all time, said: “Is life so dear 
or peace so sweet as to be pur­
chased at the price of chains 
and slavery? Forbid it aimingthy 
God! I know not what course 
others may take, but as for me, 
give me liberty or give me 
death!” T‘h i s sentiment was 
echoed by all the founders of 
our country and resulted in the 
Revolutionary War. W.hen the 
American Revolution was won, 
these great men based the gov­
ernment of the then new coun­
try, our country, on the princi­
ple that under the law, all men 
must be treated equally. This 
has been the American .Theory 
since the Constitution was writ­
ten. I say theory, because in 
practice, over ten million Ameri­
cans are still half-slave. They 
cannot vote freely, they cJnnot 
travel freely, they cannot ex­
press themselves freely and they 
live in constant fear.
The world has repeatedly 
called “the land of the free and 
the home of the brave” to task 
for this hypocrisy — but until 
recently, the situation did not 
even begin to improve. The 
Civil Rights Movement today is 
analogous to the Revolutionary 
Movement in the colonies which 
resulted in our great Nation.
If the cause of freedom is 
petty and discreditable, then we 
Americans have the honor of 
living in the pettiest and most 
discreditable country (relatively, 
speaking) in the world!
JAMES BILL 
EE ’67
JL‘
Axelrad Ob j ects To 
Coward’s Changes
Editor, The Tartan:
The sentances (sic) “I might
even run for president myself; the 
U.S. needs more liberal thinkers. 
Goldwater isn’t enough.” were 
added to my article last week. 
Some coward must have felt that 
my article was important enough 
to add misrepresentations of my 
views before anyone had a chance 
to judge them for hiipself. The 
coward may be interested to know 
that I doubt if Goldwater. is much 
more liberal than he (the coward) 
is.
Jeffrey Axelrad
Last year space was devoted to an attack on the present 
narcotics laws. The “public” condemned such a “ridicu­
lous” position so strongly that I feel compelled to try again 
to express my views with the hope that perhaps the second 
time they may lead persons to question the present system. 
To spread the “blame”, and to give more “impressive” evi­
dence, I will quote heavily from an anthology, The Addict, 
edited by Dan Wakefield.
The American Medical Association and the American 
Bar Association have stated in a jointly issued report: 
Crimes of violence are rarely, and sexual 
crimes are almost never committed by addicts.
In most instances the addicts sins are those of 
omission rather than commission; they are in­
effective people, individuals whose great desire 
ir to withdraw from the world and its troubles 
into a land of dreams.
This may not be desirable, but it certainly is not a terrible 
enough harm to society to support legal action against 
addicts.
The report demolishes further myths when it says of 
marijuana: “Tolerance and physical dependence do not 
develop, and withdrawal does not produce any abstinence 
syndrome ...” In short marijuana is no more habit-forming 
than cigarettes.
The lack of relationship between drugs and crime when 
the need for money to pay the high price for illegal narcotics 
is not present has been proven by the British experience 
where addicts are allowed to live as free men. It would 
seem then that there is no reason to outlaw marijuana at all. 
As for habit-forming narcotics, Alfred Lindesmith has sug­
gested:
What seems to be needed is a specific de­
finition of a criminal offense i.e. the act of 
making drugs available to a non-addict for the 
purpose of inducing him to experiment with 
them . . . Actually the law would probably re­
sult in few convictions, simply because most 
persons who become addicts do so of their own 
volition ...
Perhaps even this law goes too far, but at least it is 
reasonable.
Some persons would argue that since a person may 
willingly make the error of getting into the habit, society 
should protect him. William Eldridge has written “Drug 
use simply represents the attempt of certain persons to deal 
with the problems confronting them.” Novelist Alexander 
Trocchi writes that with the help of heroin “One is no 
longer grotesquely involved in the becoming. One simply 
is.” All this seems a forceful argument for the use of nar­
cotics under some circumstances, extreme though they may 
be. It is for the individual to decide his attitude toward life, 
not for society.
While I do not claim to be ah expert on the subject, 
the arguments I have heard favoring legalizing narcotics 
are far more forceful than those opposing their legal use 
and distribution to addicts.
‘“'CARNEGIE
TARTAN
CARNEGIE INSTITUTE Or TECHNOLOGY
Editor in-Chief.............................................Miron Slraf
Executive Editor .................................Nancy Cameron
Managing Editor ............................................AI Pollock
Business Manager ...............................Michael McCoy
News Editor ..............................  Dale Chodorow
Assistant News Editor ..............................Alma Rock /
Features Editor......................................Martha Hodgson
Sports Editor ....................................Scott McCormick
Layout Editor .....................................Drew Lippay
Copy Editor ............................ ................Clarita Dzatko
¦ Advertising Manager ................................John Norris
Secretary Editor ...........................................Kathy Vogel
Circulation Editor .....................................Tom Johnson
Annual Subscription Rate $2.50 Second Class Postage Paid at Pittsburgh,. Pa.Represented Tor national advertising by National Advertising, Ine.
Offices: Skibo, Room 50, lorbes Avenue, Pittsburgh is, Pa. 
Office phone, MU. 2-4557; Editor-in-Chief, MU. 2-9580 
Business Manager, MU. 2-8395; Advertising Manager, MU. 
2-9753; Managing Editor, MU. 2-9053. Published weekly 
during the’ school year cxcept holidays and examination 
periods by the students of Carnegie Institute of Technology, 
Pittsburgh 13, Pa.
Advisory Board: John Blue, Frank- Brady, Charles Ho Fook, Annie Moser, Margie Park, Peggy . Rlva, Martin Siegel 
News Stall; Bob Fritz, Bob Crlscom, Eltssa Parker, Gretchen Smith, Bob Wohliord. ’ 
Be-Wrlle Staff: Sara Cromley, Mark Ferdman, Callse GJlleland Morris Gold­stein, Janet Wcstover.
Features Staff: Susan Attlnson, Leslie Buchman, Becky Emerson, Miriam Gillespie, Jane Keller, Marian. Mulligan, Karen Mihm, Sharon Shuttleworth.
Sports Staff: Jay Arnold,' Hon Bldula, Dick Elder, AI Green, Bill Hartlep. Chris Macosko.
Easiness Staff; Eric Feldman, George Mcrriman, Dick Moore.Layout Staff: Diane Brown, Dlfck Elder. Drew Lippay, Beveroly Philoisky, Ted 
Pierce, Marlon Mulligan, Barbara Thorton, Marylu Rccco, Bruce McDonald, Sharon Shuttleworth.
Copy Staff:. Helen Bealty, Linda Booth. Barbara Brown, Nancy Green. Mik* 
^------ ----------------GJnny Salko, Ginny UJlss, Lorraine Vinograd.Grccnawalt, Verna Re:

---------------------------------------------------

Wednesday, Marcii 4, 1964 — CARNEGIE TARTAN — Pafte S
Film Close-Up
America, America
by Stillwater Pierce
"America America” ranks among the year’s best films. 
Written, directed, and produced by Elia Kazan, it chronicles 
the struggle of his uncle to reach America from Greece in 
:.^.e first years of the twentieth century. A ‘new-find’, Stathis 
Giallelis, (rhymes with psoriasis) is cast as the uncle, Stabros, 
whom we see as a young teenager caught in the fight be­
tween Greeks and Turks. He does not understand the squalor 
in which he lives, nor does he understand hatred, cruelty, and 
other aspects of life’s seedier side; in fact they accuse Stabros 
of smiling too much.
However Stabros’s days of innocence are numbered. He 
loses an Armenian friend during a Turkish raid on their vil­
lage, sees most of the town destroyed, and then decides that 
he must reach America. During the next two hours, we fol- 
'ijw him to Constantinople (where he has gone entrusted 
with his family’s belongings), witness his unscrupulous efforts 
to raise money once the goods are stolen, and are rewarded 
with a magnificent final sequence at Ellis Island, after nearly” 
three hours of helping our friend Stabros get to America.
Kazan is perhaps America’s best director when it comes 
to handling actors. In this film he elicits superior perform­
ances from Giallelis (after a slow beginning), Linda Marsh 
(as his Turkish bride-to-be), Paul Mann (as her father), and, 
in lestrospect, almost every actor who appears. The film’s 
photography is astonishing; beautiful compositions in black 
’Aid white that somehow never quite seem pretentious in spite 
of their contrivance. There are singular episodes which, to 
this reviewer, present Kazan the director at his very best; he 
takes us into the home of a wealthy rug-merchant (Mann) 
whose daughter is about to marry Stabros, now living with 
his uncle in Constantinople after nearly dying from disease 
and starvation. Stabros is doing this merely for the money, 
wanting no more than his passage fee to America. However 
the rug-merchant expects his new son-in-law to join the 
family firm and grow old and fat in splendid gluttony. As 
^Mann describes the glories of marriage to Stabros, and as 
lie details the boy’s future life in this firm, we understand 
just how dreadful the entire prospect is; Stabros’s desperate 
need to reach America becomes much clearer. Mann should 
definitely win some award for his protrayal. Kazan, in these 
scenes, shows his amazingly accurate touch for detail, his 
ability to create a mood within seconds and sustain it.
The movie’s flaws are Kazan’s habitual failings as film 
director. He is too much impressed by his own ingenuity, and 
this leads him to excesses. From a plot which would justify 
about two hours’ screening time, Kazan has fashioned a 
Vi.'Te hour film and has made some of it quite sloppily. Dis­
jointed scenes are juxtaposed with phenomenal abandon; 
characters disappear and are never seen again while we 
wait for thir next entrance. We get the feeling that Kazan 
probably had a five hour spectacular on his hands and was 
finally persuaded to cut it down, though the final product 
still lacks pace and rhythm. He wrote his own script for the 
film, and his dialogue seems quite uneven, lacking that 
same subtlety his direction wants. However, in spite of such 
weaknesses “America, America” is very strongly recommend­
ed.
ODK Invites 
Top Freshmen
The top one-third of freshman 
men, scholastically, have been in­
vited to a colloquium on leader­
ship by the Men's Activities Hon- 
oraries of Carnegie. Tech. The 
Omicron Delta Kappa initiated 
program will be held at 1:30 p.m. 
on Saturday, March 7, in the ball­
room of Skibo.
Three members of the honorar- 
ies wil give brief talks on the pub­
lications, student government, and 
sports of Carnegie Tech. A Tech 
graduate, William Carpenter, of 
the Pittsburgh Plate Glass Foun­
dation, will emphasize the import­
ance of leadership beyond the 
academic realm.
An informal coffee hour will be 
held following the program.
Your Man 
In Congress
Hillel Sponsors 
Institute at Tech
(continued from mJge 1) 
cert featuring the COACHMEN 
THREE, followed by a dance.
SUNDAY, MARCH 8, 1964 
11:00 a.m. to 1:00 p.m. — Brunch 
at the Skibo Paculty-^Dining 
Room, with John Lewis as 
speaker. (Topic to be an­
nounced).
The cost of the Banquet will be 
$1.50 per person. Other meals will 
be served for Friday supper, Sat­
urday lunch, and Sunday brunch 
at $1.50 each. All food is prepared 
by expert chefs in strict observ­
ance of the Kashruth dietary laws.
The Institute should provide a 
very intellectually, educationally, 
and socially stimulating week-end 
for all. Hillel welcomes our out- 
of-town students, who will be ar­
riving on March 6. Interested 
Tech students may cal the Hillel 
Office at the YMHA, 621-8076, for 
reservations.
Engineers & Scientists
Discuss Current Openings 
with ANFHLTES
CAMPUS INTERVIEWS
MARCH 16
See your mlJcement director now to 
JrrJnge Jn interview with the RJytheon remresentJtive.
Raytheon offers challenging assignments for BS and MS candidates in 
EE, ME, Mathematics and Physics. Openings are in the areas of:
RADAR, INFRARED, MISSILE & SPACE SYSTEMS, COMMUNICATIONS & DATA PROCESSINO, 
SOLID STATE, SONAR, ELECTRON TUBE & COMPONENTS TECHNOLOGY, 
MICROWAVE ELECTRONICS, MANUFACTURING & FIELD SERVICE ENGINEERING
FJcilities Jre locJted in New EnglJnd, CJliforniJ 
Jnd Tennessee. If Jn interview is not convenient 
on Jbove dJte, mleJse forwJrd your résumé to 
Mr. G. C. Clifford, CoordinJtor of College RelJ­
tions, RJytheon CommJny, Gore Building, WJter­
town, MJssJchusetts.
RAYTHEON
J* Equal Opportunity Employer
by Martha Hodgson
This Wednesday, in an address to the assembled Con­
gress, Chairman Tom Pyke reviewed the first semester in 
terms of Congressional achievements. This impressive récord 
was divided into the five fields emphasized in the .Committee 
Heads meeting. It includes a well-conducted Freshman 
Orientation Week, an improved student handbook, the newly 
organized Tech Committee, which had taken its place among 
the most active and influential committees, a financially and 
socially successful Fall Festival, a vastly improved campus 
chest drive, a newly vitalized assembled series with effective 
publicity, and, in the planning stage, a Leadership Confer­
ence on Campus. Congress has recognized two new campus 
organizations, and kept better financial tabs on all others.
We have had much more success in our proposals to the 
administration than many other congresses; Thanksgiving 
vacation was extended, through two completely new methods 
never before used by Congress; delegation of Congress mem­
bers for personal: contact of the Executive Board,, and the 
threat of a Student Demonstration.
The policy on parking lots was changed; gate 0 will be 
raised after 8:30 p.m. for student use. The Congress was in­
strumental in having a juke box placed in Skibo Snack Bar, 
and a large general campus bulletin board will be erected 
soon. In the areas of Campus Morale, the Congress has spon­
sored pep rallies to encourage the athletic teams.
Tom announced that increased emphasis is needed in 
three significant areas, however, including Campus Morale, 
for which the Tech Committee will be established as a. stand­
ing committee after its highly successful first year, continu­
ing assistance and publicity for all campus organizations, 
and a more active role in proposals to the administration, 
with a continuing emphasis upon teamwork between stu­
dents and administration.
After Committee heads’ reports, the now well-informed 
Congress began to discuss the issues before it. The pros and 
cons on each issue were in each members’ hands having been 
mailed to him the weekend before. The International Club 
was recognized as a campus organization over the Executive 
Council’s veto; the Executive Council’s reason had been lack 
of information about the club’s members, funds and purposes. 
All these were explained to the satisfaction of the members 
by the President of International Club, who was present. - 
The Motorports Club was also recognized, as well as the 
combined Institute of Electrical and Electronic Engineers,. 
The Congress voted $100 to International Club from'the Re­
serve funds as an encouragement for their Conference work. 
The final three amendments were tabled until the next meet­
ing, a new policy of the Congress, so that the adjournment 
could take place promptly at 5:30.
BO AC shows you the Europe the European students know—from $1079* for 42 days.
Inquiring minds and the fun-minded will both enjoy the
11 BOAC itineraries specially designed for students. 
You visit little-known Alpine and Yugoslav villages as 
well as the Grand Tour classics. Here’s what your tour 
price includes.
• Serious cultural, economic and governmental briefings.
• Oxford and Cambridge graduate-studenttour leaders.
• Shakespeare at Stratford, Salzburg marionettes, Edin­
burgh Military Tattoo.
• Evenings with European students at Tivoli, Munich Hof- 
brau, and the Left Bank.
® Independent leisure in the great cities.
• Most meals.
• All hotels, prices based on double occupancy of rooms
• You get there by BOAC Rolls-Royce 707 Fan-Jet
• Travel in Europe by bus, train, steJmer Jnd Jir.
See your Travel Agent or nearest BOAC office—and send in the coupon.
‘Including Economy Class round-trip jet air fare from New 
York, subject to change.
FREE TOUR BROCHURE '
British.Overseas Airways Corporation Oept. BE-178 .C 
530 Fifth Ave., New York 36 
Please send me your free brochure or 
STOP tours.
NAME—

---------------------------------------------------

Page 6 — CARNEGIE TARTAN — Wednesday, March 4. 1961
Art Festival Opens 
To All Area Residents
Artists who are residents of the Pittsburgh Tri-State 
area are eligible to enter works in the Fifth Annual Three 
Kiveÿs Arts Festival of Carnegie Institute.
The Festival, with its outdoor exhibitions and perform­
ances, will be held early this summer in the Plazas of Gate­
way Center, made available by the?-------~---------------:—:---------------:—:
Equitable Life Assurance Society 
of the United States. This year, to 
celebrate its fifth anniversary, 
the chairman, A. W, Schmidt, an­
nounced that the Festival will be 
extended to ten days and will 
run from May 29 through June 7.
The juried art exhibition will 
be installed outdoors on panels 
of specially - designed pavillions 
which, with the gaily - colored 
three - pennant insignia, have 
become associated with the Fes­
tival mood. A crafts exhibition 
and others will be held in lob­
bies of Gateway Buildings. 
Sculpture will be shown in the 
Sculpture Court between Gate­
way Buildings II and III. Dem­
onstrations of arts and crafts 
techniques will be held among 
the exhibition pavillions through­
out the Festival period.
Artists who are 18 years of 
age or older and whose per­
manent residence is within a 110 
mile radius of Pittsburgh are eli-1 
gible. A nominal handling fee 
($3.00) is charged for all stu-
Europe Flight 
For Students
Going to Europe this summer? 
Interested in saving money? Take 
a slow, dependable, four engine, 
propeller driven plane for $285 
round trip. Five separate flights» 
chartered through a New York 
agency have been opened to all 
midwestern college students, fac­
ulty and their immediate famiies.
The planes, four engine Lock­
heed Super Constellations, have 
. been contracted through the Her­
bert Palace Travel Agency. All 
flights leave and return to New 
York City. The following dates 
are scheduled:
Arriving in London June 10 — 
leave Paris August 30. Arrive in 
London June 14 — leave Paris 
Sept. 1. Arrive in London June 16 
— leave Paris Sept. 2. Arrive in 
London June 28 — leave Paris 
August 31. Arrive in London: July 
1 — leave Paris Sept. 3.
Reservations and payment must 
be in by March 15. For more in­
formation call Chris. Macosko, MU 
1-8356 afternoons and evenings.
ñ
Departments 
Receive Grants
Tech has received $185,000 in 
grants from the National Science 
Foundation for projects in elec­
trical engineering, mechanical en­
gineering, metallurgy, and phys­
ics. The department of mechani­
cal engineering has been given 
$65,000 to be used for improve­
ment in graduate research fa­
cilities in the department.
A. G. Jordan, associate professor 
of electrical engineering will di­
rect a study on “Injection and 
Transport of Added Charges in 
Silicon at Liquid Helium Tem­
peratures.” His study is support­
ed by a grant of over $42,000 from 
the NSF.
The grant appropriations arc 
as follows:
“Optical Studies of Imperfec­
tions in the Alkali Halides” will 
be the subject of research being 
conducted by C. L. Bauer, as­
sistant professor of metallurgical 
engineering, under a grant of 
$28,700.
R. T. Schumacher, associate 
professor, and N. S. VanderVen, 
assistant professor of physics, will 
continue study of “Magnetic Res­
onance in Solids" with $48,800 in 
funds from the NSF*
dents. Only original works which 
have never been shown in a 
/Three Rivers Arts Festival will 
be considered. Media are oil 
painting, watercolor, graphics, 
ceramics, sculpture, metal­
work and weaving.
Information and entry forms 
may be secured by sending a 
self-addressed envelope to t he 
5th Annual Three Rivers Arts 
Festival, Museum of Art, Carnegie 
Institute, Pittsburgh, Pa., 15213. 
Entries, accompanied by official 
entry forms, are due for delivery 
at the Museum of Art, Carnegie 
Institute early in May.
LEWIS
Sales - Repairs 
RADIO - ELECTRIC CO. 
SUPPLIES 
RADIOS 
HIGH FIDELITY 
TELEVISION 
RECORD PLAYERS 
621-4211
115 OAKLAND AVE.
TYPING
FAST • EFFICIENT 
• REASONABLE •
'Term Papers — Theses— Dis­
sertations — Punctuations — 
Spelling — Grammar Correct­
ed.
MC0 ENTERPRISES
Call 421-1456 
Electric Typewriters Used 
Exclusively
research:
The many IBM laboratories located throughout 
the United States suggest our intense interest 
in research and development. B IBM scientists 
and engineers are teamed in groups of the 
best size for their investigations—and may even 
attack certain problems individually. I It de­
pends on what's being solved. Ask your college 
placement officer for our brochures—and for 
an appointment when the IBM representative 
is interviewing on campus. H IBM is an Equal 
Opportunity Employer. 1 
If you cannot attend the interview, write: I
Manager of College Relations, B IBM Corp., 
590 Madison Ave., New York 22, N, Y. B
MOVE AHEAD: SEE
IBM.
MARCH 12-13
THE BELL TELEPHONE COMPANIES 
SALUTE: PAUL FORGIE
Since joining New Jersey Bell in I960, Paul Forgie 
(B.S.M.E., 1960) has handled four important research 
studies to improve engineering techniques.
The first was. a feasibility study to test the company's 
system of outside plant cable records. Paul investigated 
a new system of record-keeping that could gready reduce 
engineering and drafting time required by current prac­
tices. Paul was invited to present his findings to the com­
pany's District Engineers.
On later assignments, Paul developed an engineering 
quality rating system, analyzed his company’s ready access 
cable facilities, and conducted a cost study on conduit.
Paul’s analytical approach to tough problems has 
opened up a bright future for him at New Jersey Bell.
Paul Forgie, like many young, engineers, is impatient to 
make things happen for his company and himself. There are 
few places where such restlessness is more welcomed or I 
rewarded than in the fast-growing telephone business.!
BELL TELEPHONE COMPANIES
ms¦
Pii
-V

---------------------------------------------------

Wednesday, March 4. 1964 — CARNEGIE TARTAN — Pase 7
Shakespeare’s Sonnets Subject 
Of Assembly Program Given By 
Ass’t English Professor Hayes
Mrs. Ann Hayes, assistant Professor of English at Car­
negie Tech, discussed Shakespeare’s Sonnets at the Febru­
ary 25 assembly , in the Fine Arts theater. This was the first 
of a series of assemblies on William Shakespeare's Poems 
and Plays, presented by the Department of English,. to
celebrate the four-hundredth an-/" 
niversary of his birth fmd the fif­
tieth anniversary pf thg Drama.
Department of Carnegie Tech.
<..>Mrs. Hayeys received both her 
B.A. and M.A. at Stanford Uni­
versity and she has had some of 
her own poems published in 
AmericJn ScholJr. She is present­
ly a faculty adviser for Cwens.
According to Mrs. Hayes, 
Shakespeare’s sonnets are' among 
the most famous in the world, 
tradition has it that Shakespeare 
Wished his reputation to rest upon 
these sonnets, although he is best 
known today for his plays.
Scholars today look into the 154 
sonnets to try to discover more 
about Shakespeare as a man. 
There is much speculation as to 
whom the characters in the son­
nets represent in Shakespeare’s 
v**v^fte! yet there is no proof even as 
to the dates ’when he wrote the 
poems, or to the order in which 
they appeared in their first pub­
lication.
Mrs. Hayes described the rhyme 
scheme used throughout the son­
nets with little valuation — 14 
Jines of iambic pentameter group­
ed in three quatrains and a coup- 
‘fet. She then read several of the 
sonnets, using them to explain the 
structure of the rhyme scheme 
;md and, demonstrating the unity 
wiihin each quatrain, the relation 
of each quatrain to the others, and 
the use of the break between the 
octave — first eight lines — and 
the sextet — the last six lines — 
•^o express a change in mood. Each 
poem has a double unity: the oc­
tavo is related to the couplet. The 
ihrce main examples used were 
Sonnets 94, 73, and J29.
According to Mrs. Hayes, \the 
Shakespearian sonnets open up 
the truth of familiar generaliza-
M. W. Motors Publication 
BEETLE TALK
for people who drive Volks­
wagens and those who should. 
It features information about 
the Volkswagens, tips and help­
ful hints for Volkswagen own­
ers, and contests with valuable 
prizes. To get*on the mailing 
list, write your name and ad­
dress on. a post card and mail it 
with your request to M. W. 
Motors, Pittsburgh’s leading 
Factory Authorized Volks­
wagen Dealer. Ño charge, of 
course.
Today's Best Btiy 
'57 Volkswagen Sedan
Fully Equipped. Evcellenl Condili«)*
$695
M. W. MOTORS
731 Boiler St. Raule 8, Etna
ritisburfli,. 23 
ST. 1-5671 HU. 6-1810
tions. They are not new revela­
tions, lout IRey cause us to look 
at the commonplace. They ask us 
to read and wonder, and repay us 
for what they ask.
She concluded by saying that it 
is not just because this is the 
anniversary of Shakespeare's 
birth, nor because Shakespeare 
was a great playwright that we 
study his sonnets; but because 
they are the “greatest love poems 
in the English language.” .
Ski Club President 
Attends Conference
Carnegie Tech Ski Club President Ralph “Tony” Williams 
was a participant in the third annual College & Career Men’s 
Fashion Conference sponsored by the Du Pont Company. At 
the three-day meeting, held earlier this month at Mittersill 
Lodge in Franconia, New Hampshire, undergraduates from 
twenty universities discussed 
trends in young men’s fashions 
and evaluated samples of manu­
facturers* fall samples. \
While in New Hampshire, Tony 
wasted np time in using the skijr.p_: 
facriiflSTIi&sTTn fact, most of his 
free time was spent on the ski 
slopes of that state.
During the conferences, the stu­
dents evaluated clothes, as to ma­
terial, wear, design and color. At 
panel discussions, • the delegates 
discussed fashion and offered sug­
gestions for improvement. The 
manufacturers and retailers -who 
were present at the conference 
listened and took- notes on what 
the students discussed.
Tony’s evaluation of the con­
ference indicated that he felt it 
a very worthwhile session, which 
was for him, both informative and
Tony Williams
fun. His only complaint, however, 
was that there were no girls there;
WHAT’SNEW
IN THE MARCH
“Mexico Today": A Special 62* page Supplement reveals the character 
and vitality of the Mexican people — through their short stories, poetry, and painting, and article? ebout their social advances, industrial growth, new. erf# music and archaeological discoveries, 
Oscar Handlln: "Is Integratlonthe Answer?*': After 10 years, a view of theunexpected conseqy^nces of ths.
Supreme Court ruling on segregation. 
“Trip* to Felix" »¥ eorson Kanin: A portrait of Supreme CQurt Justice Felj*
-FiMljfertirHH» of-wepftriK!»Knowledge, and intimate thoughts. 
"Whatever Happened to Women’i Righto?" by Paul Foley: Why today's American women are not availing them*selves of their "equal 6tatus"
opportunities.
Every month the 
Atlantic provides a 
platform for many of 
the world's most ar* 
ticulate and creative 
men and women. The 
result is. always enter­
taining and informs* 
tlve.often brilliant.oc- 
casionally profound.
More and more, the 
Atlantic is finding Its 
way into the hands of 
discerning readers.
Get your copy today.
ONLY FORD-BUILT CARS MEET THE CHALLENGE WITH
TAT AI PCPCfliifllijifjr1!» I ment Award for engineering excellence which “superbly'
I UP 1 ML I Lltl villvlnllwt ¦ combines the prime essentials of great auLomobiles—!
mmMManmMMM performance, reliability, durability, comfort and safely.’*
Something wonderful’. happened to Ford Motor To(a, makes # wor)d Qf di(rerence Bodies
Company cars! Under the freshest styling seen m an£, frames are s0,;d and iet even on ^ roughest
years, there s a new kind of ^rab.hty and vigor that roads. The ..¡de’s so smooth, so even-keeled, it seems
more than meets the demands of today s and lomor- t0 slraiglllen lhe curvcs and shorlen lhe mi|es. And
row's high-speed turnp.ke dnv.ng cond.t.ons. noLhing matches the spirit, sparkle and stamina of
)Vhat‘s lhe secret? Quality engineering for total per- advanced Ford-built V-8’s and thrifty Sixes. Total
jformance. Quality -engineering so outstanding that performance is yours to.enjoy in all our 1964 cars— from'
Ford Motor Company received the NASCAR Achieve-' the frisky Falcon to the matchless Lincoln Continental.1
MOTOR COMPANY '
The American Road, Dearborn, Michigan 
WHERE ENGINEERING LEADERSHIP BRINGS YOU BETTER-BUILT CARS

---------------------------------------------------

Page 8 — CARNEGIE TARTAR —¦ TTeffnesday, MarcTi 4, 1964
NiediaFoelsWerronenCupps
64 24 30 20 36 66
ST. VINCENT
SwcderHobartGardner
St. VincentBeatsT ech; 
Fouls Cost78-68Loss
by Hank Werroneil
Tech journey to St. Vincent land last Saturday with 
hopes of avenging an earlier season loss to the Bearcats, but 
before a highly partisan crowd they saw their plans crumble 
as St. Vincent put on a late rush to defeat Tech, 78-68.
St. Vincent started the game with a man-to-man defense 
that Tech riddled for easy scores.
George McGeary’s three layups 
led Tech to 21-13 lead. St. Vin 
cent averted a runaway by switch 
ing to the same 1-3-1 zone that 
Tech was using so successfully.
The Tartan’s once patient offense 
began to hurry shots, and St. Vin­
cent methodically fought back toi 
a 39-38 half time lead.
• After the intermission, Tech re 
tained its early form and shot 
but to a 49-44 lead with only four 
minutes gone. Here trouble began 
. when 6-5 McGeary fouled out.
Three minutes later 6-3 Jeff Kalin 
committed his fifth personal foul 
and took the rest of Tech’s re­
bounding strength to the bench 
Despite fine efforts by Andy 
Niedra and freshman Don Keefer 
St. Vincent’s rebounding edge be­
gan to tell the tale.
With the crowd behind them,
St. Vincent began their game- 
winning drive. They captured the 
lead for good at 62-60 and six 
minutes remaining. Tech shooters 
couldn’t buy a hoop, and St. Vin­
cent poured it on to win going 
away, 78-68.
The final score betrays the 
closeness of the game. St. Vincent 
outshot Tech 43%-38% and both 
had 67% from the foul stripe. The 
home crowd, Tech’s foul trouble 
and a hot streak at a crucial point 
spelled the difference for St. Vin­
cent who finished its season 
a .6-14 mark. With a March 3 visit 
to Fenn remaining, Tech's record 
stands at 7-12.
TECH
Tech Riflemen 
Accept Defeat 
At Allegheny
The Carnegie Tech riflemen lost 
in the bid for second place in the 
.West Penn conference as they 
went down to defeat at the hands 
of Allegheny by a score of 1402- 
1395. The Tartan’s score was their 
best recent effort, but poor per­
formances by Bob Fritz and Phil 
Meyers prevented Carnegie from 
pulling out a victory.
Mike Knepley continued to 
Shoot superbly, finishing with a 
100-95-92 287 score, which was 
good enough for first place in the 
individual scoring. Rich Dambcrg 
turned in his finest performance 
Of the year, shooting a 98-97-85 
270 score. Don Mersel also shot 
well, despite a shaky kneeling 
score, and wound up with a 98-87- 
93 total of 278. Tuck Arnold shot 
his high of the year, a 100-92-83 
275 but Phil Meyers turned in an­
other sub-280 score, a 275.
The big disappointment was 
Bob Fritz who dropped ten points 
on one shot in the kneeling posi­
tion to finish with a 98-85-90 
Score of 273.
Tech’s remaining two matches 
ftre with California, who hold 
down last place in the section. 
These two wins will give the Tar­
tan riflemen an 8-5 season record, a record that should be improved 
the next two years.
Five Teams 
Remain Tops 
In IM Bowling
Beta Theta Pi, Sigma Nu, the 
Grad Eagles, and the Trojans all 
turned in winning efforts and 
made themselves the favorites for 
the championship in intramural 
bowling along with Delta Tau 
Delta, who was idle.
The Betas paced by Roy Ging­
ery and Kieth Pierce, clobbered 
the Phi Kaps in three straight 
games to stretch their record to 
10-2 and their average, to 795 
This effort placed Beta one game 
behind Sigma Nu who had little 
trouble defeating ATO, to make 
their record 11-1.
The Grads lost their first game 
but did bowl a tremendous 2488 
match to defeat TDP and up their 
average to 789.
The Trojons “A" maintained 
their undefeated record and a 781 
average by whipping the Whales 
2365 to 1934.
High man for the day was the 
Grads’ John Sanders wilh 216 
Roy Gingery of Beta T' ? l Pi 
turned in a 563 series, tops in the 
day’s competition.
STRIKES LEAGUE 
W
SN .......................................................11
BTP ....................................................10
Marauder .......................................... 7
PKT .............................................. 3
Trojans “A” ................................... 3
ATO .....................................................2
SPARES LEAGUE 
VV
Grads ....................................11
DTD .................................................. 7
TDP “A” .......................................... 5
DU ...................................................... 4
Whales ,..;...;............................... 4
SPLITS LEAGUE
W
Trojans “A” ..................12
SAE .................................................. 9
BSR .................................................... 7
BTP “B” ........................................ 6
TDP “B” .......................................... 1
Whales “A" .................................. 1‘
Pitt Defeats Tartans 98-62 *
Tartans Play Hard at First
Pitt’s NIT-bound Panthers stopped off at the Tech gym 
Wednesday night hoping ..for a win, and found, at first, some 
difficulty. Tech. made the first five minutes into a game and 
led 11-10 until Pitt, began turning Tartan’s hopes into tears 
and pulled away 98-62 at the final buzzer.
----------------------------—---------------:-------- . Tech hustle proved unnerving
the polish sported by the visiife^ 
Panthers, but the hustle-continued' 
only for the first sixth of the 
game until both teams decided 
that the outcome had indeed been 
already mapped by almost every­
one. Hustle ceased except on Pitt, 
fast breaks and fans as well as lhe 
teams settled back for the roui.
It came quickly as defense laps­
ed into obscurity and Pitt threw 
in points at will with Tech watch« 
ing, feet firmly planted oi\ tje 
floor. To the end only Tech fans 
were making noise and the rout 
was accomplished wilh no trum­
pets, 98-62.
CARNEGIE TECH
Morrison jump shot etudes Pitt YPiPDePl
WAA Bowling 
Season Ends
W.A.A. intramural bowling 
ended last week with Jeanne 
Whiteridge taking first place in 
a 3-game series. She is next year’s 
bowling manager. Joan Novak 
and Leslee Foster tied for sec­
ond place. Tuesday, December 
10th a 2-game National Intercol­
legiate Telegraphic American Ten 
Pin Tournament is being played.
IM Basketball Teams 
Try for Playoff Berth
It is a throat-cutting time in intramural basketball with 
the top teams in the league meeting each other to determine 
berths in the playoffs. More than one undefeated squad met 
defeat as the top teams in all four leagues began to play 
each other. ?----------------------------------------------
The biggest upset of the week 
was Kappa Sig’s trouncing of last 
year’s runner-up team, the Finks 
“B,” by a score of 51-32. Hill, 
Scholl, and Rcutzel led KS to a 
25-10 hàlftime lead andMcClelland 
hit for eight in the second half to 
keep Kappa Sig out in front. In 
their only other game, Kappa Sig 
pasted BTP “B” 53-22 with Beck 
hitting 17.
It was not the Finks’ week, as 
they also lost to the big Grad 
Physics team 34-27. A one-point 
output in the third quarter by the 
Finks killed them. This game left 
both the Grad-Physics and ATO 
both undefeated, but ATO still has 
to play the Grads and the Finks.
The ATO’s played just well- 
enough to win two games, defeat­
ing PKT 61-41 and the Commuters 
47-35. Frank Oliver hit for 24 
against PKT and combined his 17 
with A1 Green’s 17 in the Com­
muter game. PKT defeated the 
Dunkers 35-33 in the only other 
game played in the Celtics league.
The top playoff in the Royal’s 
league awaits thé outcome of the 
Dorm-Trojans, Sigma Nu game. 
The Dorms had little trouble with 
both the Grad Hawks and the E.E. 
Grads, winning by scores of 39-23 
and 68-40. No single player broke 
16 points in either game for the 
Dorm-Trojans who displayed an 
extremely well-balanced scoring 
attack.
Sigma Nu also won two with 
little trouble, defeating the Delts 
{>1-20, and BSR “A” 42-27. Van- 
dcrlinde was high scorer in both 
games with 11 and 15 points.
Bela Sig won their only other 
game easily, defeating TDP "B” 
45-21. The Finks “A" whipped 
Grad Hawks 52-36 behind 
Cyphers’ 20 and McGonaglc’s 14.
The Grad Eagles and BTP con­
tinued to dominate the Warriors 
League. The Betas had little 
trouble whipping SN "A" 56-31 
and DU “B” 65-11 behind Lynch’s 
26 points. The Grad Eagles over­
powered the previously unbeaten 
PKA Nimbrads 34-18 with ex- 
Carnegie Tech star Andy Komer 
scoring 20.
PKA did win one, defeating the 
Whales 41-37. In other games, the 
Gradw Eagles totally wasted ATO
“B” 78-17r and the Dorm Trojans 
“S” edgeehjSN “A” 31-30.
Th$ Lasers League continued to 
be dominated by the piay of the 
Civil Hammers and DU. The 
Civils waltzed by KS “B” 70-20 
and won a big one by defeating 
TDP 57-28. The Tau Delts man­
aged to split even for the week by 
running over BTP “T” 68-27.
Paced by hot-shooting John 
Pavlik, DU defeated the Met Grads 
37-25 and the Dorm Trojans “AM 
48-27 with Pavlick scoring a total 
of 35 points in the two games.
The Dorm Trojans lost another 
one to SAE 43-30, as Harvey 
Gammon hit 12 for the winners.
With the playoffs only a week 
away, it looks as if the Grad 
Eagles, BTP, the Civil Hammers, 
DU, ATO, the Grad Physics, -Sig­
ma Nu, and the Dorm-Trojans 
will be competing for the cham­
pionship trophy. However, there 
are still .some big games left, and 
the Finks “B,” Kappa Sig, and 
TDP are all waiting for someone 
lo slip, allowing them to get into 
the playoffs.
Seemillers Luncheonette &
Delicatessen
Complete short order 
food service 
Snacks and fountain 
delights 
Both here and there 
Corner Forbes Ave. and 
Craig St.
Open til 11:00 i>.m. 
682-9894
FURNITURE
to 40% off
9 x 12 RUGS 
tap so tnx
Chase's
5432 Walnut St.
Next to Sliadyside Post Office 
621-1025 
Open 10 a.in. to 9 p.m.
Sheffield
Roman Generalovich Ruby
Like most of us, you probably 
feel pressured at times with the 
demands made on you for original 
thinking, — for fresh ideas that 
will lift your work above the 
commonplace. Through the study 
of this book, Science and Health 
with Key to the Scriptures byy 
Mary Baker Eddy, we are learn­
ing how to turn to God for the 
intelligent ideas we need. You 
can do this, too.
We invite you to come to our 
meetings and to hear how we 
are working out our problems 
through applying the truths of 
Christian Science.
CHRISTIAN SCIENCE * 
ORGANIZATION
Carnegie Institute of 
Technology
Pittsburgh 
Meeting lime: 4:30 p.m. Tuesday* Meeting place: Skibo Chapel
Science Jnd HeJlifi is JvJilJble Ji atf ChristiJn Science ReJding Rooms Jnd Jl mJny college boolitotcJ. PJmerbJck Edition tt.95.
