The Newspaper of Carnegie-Mellon University, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania 15213, Volume 80, Number 3, September 24,1985.
Senators plan fight 
against underage curfew
photo by Andy Gillespie
The U.S. Bureau of mines complex, shown above, will be owned outright by CMU 
as of Mfonday.
CMU acquires U.S. 
Bureau of Mines complex
By ALBRECHT T. POWELL
Tartan Staffwriter
Carnegie-Mellon University will have 
outright possession of the U.S. Bureau of 
Mines complex on Sept. 30, 1985 at a cost 
of $5.8 million.
This step marks the kind of outward ex­
pansion not seen since the early 70’s when 
Skibo and Wean Hall were built.
CMU has been trying to acquire the 
USBOM buildings ever since President 
Warner proposed the plan back in 1957. It 
took twenty years of fighting with the help 
of Senators and CMU officials to have 
authorization passed for the purchase of the 
U.S. Government property.
As the USBOM is a part of the Interior 
of the Government, all negotiations had to 
go through Congress. In the early part of 
1981, the property was purchased with the 
agreement that the USBOM be moved late 
in 1985.
The only problem with the plan is that 
the buildings are not in very good shape. 
Fred Rogers, Vice President of Business Af­
fairs said, ‘There is a lot of work needed 
since they haven’t been extremely well main­
tained. The U.S. Government is exempt 
from building codes and inspections so their 
buildings are not as well kept as those on our 
campus. That will be changed.” He con­
tinued by saying that “. . . there is not even 
a centralized fire alarm. They have hand 
held horns that are supposed to alert the en­
tire building of a fire. . .”
The added work necessary to bring the 
buildings up to standards will be greatly off­
set by their usefulness and necessity for the 
campus community. Out of the six major 
buildings, CMU will be using all but one and 
a half. One organization associated with the 
USBOM, the Mine Safety and Health Ad­
ministration (MSHA), will be leasing the re­
maining buildings’ space from CMU. This 
will help to offset the cost of the complex.
The sp3ce opened by this acquisition 
will mostly be utilized in two areas. The first 
will be basic Administrative purposes, such 
as printing, Physical Plant, grounds keepers
and some offices. The other major move will 
be SUPA. The extra space in Margaret Mor­
rison, Porter Hall and other academic 
buildings on campus will .. make CMU the 
best it can be for its students,” according to 
Rogers.
Another situation helped by the acquisi­
tion will be Parking. About 200 extra spaces 
will be available to students, which will more 
than make up for those lost by the Mellon 
Institute parking lot closure.
When asked about the new debts incurred 
from the cost of the acquisition, Rogers 
replied, “When you’ve been waiting 30 years 
to get the property, you just buy it. The 
funding for these projects does not come 
from tuition.”
As part of the Master Plan, all funding 
will be received through outside sources such 
as grants and fund raisers. The older debt 
stemming from the building of Wean Hall 
stands at around $2 million.
One such hope is for “.. .someone to 
donate the $5 million for the buildings and 
possibly have the complex named after 
them. Until that time comes, though, they 
will probably still be referred to at the 
Bureau of Mines,” said Rogers.
The long term plans for the USBOM will 
include the destruction of all but two of the 
buildings, so that new ones may be erected. 
These new buildings will be mostly 
laboratories with a large parking garage 
underneath. The buildings will be done in 
the same architectural style as the rest of the 
campus to keep its unified appearance.
Eventually, CMU hopes to acquire the 
Naval Reserve station which . .is something 
we are pursuing. I can see it within the next 
10-15 years,” Rogers said. The entire Master 
Plan includes and extensive addition to 
Skibo, a new set of academic buildings built 
parallel to Doherty and Wean creating a 
second “cut,” as well as the conference center, 
the USBOM complex and multiple addi­
tions to academic buildings. The whole 
plan, expected to cost around $100 million 
(which will be all funded through outside 
sources and fundraisers) is an eventual real­
ity for CMU.
By KAREN GRAY
Tartan News Editor
CMU’s Student Senate opposed a propos­
ed curfew on Pittsburgh’s young adults at its 
weekly meeting last Tuesday.
The ordinance for a curfew, introduced 
to city council by councilman Steven 
Grabowski on Sept. 9, would prohibit per­
sons 18 or younger from going out after 10 
p.m. on weeknights and 11 p.m. on 
weekends.
“There are a lot of people on campus who 
wouldn’t be allowed to go to Oakland and 
other places at night,” said Campus Affairs 
Committee chair Peter Cohen. ‘We also have 
lots of freshmen living off-campus.”
Pitt’s Student Government Board oppos­
ed the ordinance at its first meeting Sept. 12. 
At that meeting, however, a spokesperson for 
Councilman Grabowski said that the curfew 
would not necessarily be focused upon col­
lege students.
“It will mainly be centered on kids hang­
ing out on street comers and creating distur­
bances,” said the spokesperson. “We can’t do 
anything about this now, but with this [pro­
posed] curfew, they can tell them to leave or 
actually remove the kids themselves.”
CMU Campus Security Sgt. Russ doesn’t 
think the ordinance, if it passes, will affect 
CMU too much. “The campus is an exten­
sion of [the student’s] home. We’ll make sure 
no one bothers them. Most of our problem 
on campus is with outsiders, and the or­
dinance will cut down on that.”
Russ noted that in some areas of Pitt­
sburgh “[a curfew] is necessary.. .you will see 
quite a few kids hanging around.”
Several student senators, however, said
By KENT RADEK
Tartan Staffwriter
Later this year, Carnegie-Mellon Univer­
sity, the University of Pittsburgh and 
Westinghouse Electric Corporation will 
receive a supercomputer from the Lewis 
Research Center in Cleveland. The Cray
IS, and improvement upon the Cray 1 which 
was first produced in the mid 1970’s, will be 
operated and maintained for the group by 
Westinghouse.
Today’s supercomputer breeds are com­
pared on the basis of speed, measured in 
megaflops (millions of operations per se­
cond), and they usually lie in the range of 
about 30 to 1000 megaflops. The cray IS can 
perform up to 160 megaflops at peak capaci­
ty, about ten times as fast as any of the com­
puters currently operating at either CMU or 
Pitt.
The two men involved in investigationg 
the project are Michael Levine, professor of 
physics at Carnegie-Mellon, and Ralph 
Roskies, professor of physics at Pitt. Roskies 
explained, “Scientists believe that supercom­
puters are the only feasible way of tackling 
complex problems that require billions of 
calculations to solve — problems such as 
weather forecasting and predicting the crea­
tion and movement of tornadoes.” They are
that in the spirit of the proposal lies the 
potential for discrimination.
“We should try to work under existing 
laws,” said Senator Seana Chun, adding that 
police may be more likely to check the iden­
tification of blacks than whites.
Student senator Nadine Flynn said that 
the proposed curfew directly violates the 1st 
Amendment of the US. Constitution’s clause 
stating, “..the right of the people peaceably 
to assemble...”
According to Flynn, the proposed curfew 
also violates the 14th Amendment, which 
protects citizens from abridgement of 
“privileges or immunities.”
Cohen noted the recent overturning of 
Philadelphia City’s curfew by Municipal 
Court Judge Thomas J. McCormack.
In explanation of his ruling , McCormack 
stated that the curfew “interfered with the 
First Amendment right of young people to 
assemble.”
Student Senate plans to act against the or­
dinance through a campus-wide petition 
and a letter directed to Mayor Richard 
Caliguiri and the City Council. Said Cohen, 
“We are also requesting that if there is a 
public hearing, we should be allowed to 
speak.”
Student Senate President Karen Lee is 
coordinating the petition, which will be 
available for students to peruse on Thurs­
day and Friday in front of Doherty Hall.
City Council is supposed to decide the fate 
of the proposal at the public hearing in 
several weeks. In the meantime, however, 
“everyone in Student Senate is going to get 
involved with this,” said Cohen.
also useful in vehicle design and quantum 
mechanics, among many others. This is the 
major reason for the necessity of high speed.
CMU President Richard M. Cyert claim­
ed the grant “reflects these institutions’ pro­
continued on page 5
In This Issue:
News
Save your stereo...................page 2
Features
Blind Student........................page 7
Counseling Center................page 8
Arts & Entertainment
Yakov Smirnoff.....................page 9
Dare to be stupid..............page 10
Sports
Tech crushes JCU.............page 15
Focus on IM's....................page 17
Editorial..............................page 18
Acme..................................page 22
Cray Supercomputer 
comes to Pittsburgh

---------------------------------------------------

Page 2—The Tartan—September 24,1985
Campus Police urges marking of valuables
By CAROLYN KELLY
Tartan Staffwriter
The CMU Campus Police has set in mo­
tion “Operation Identification”, a program 
designed to help students protect their pro­
perty through engraving.
Valuables such as stereos, cameras and 
television sets can be engraved with 
Drivers/Operator’s numbers.
Security Director Robert S. Fadzen, Sr., 
said that engraving personal property doesn’t 
necessarily mean that it will be safer from 
theft, but that it will make items more dif­
ficult to pawn. Engraving also increases the 
chances of recovering lost property and suc­
cessfully prosecuting the perpetrator.
The benefits of this program do not end 
when a student graduates from CMU; his or
By AMY COPPOLA
Tartan Staffwriter
Twelve members of CMU’s Students For 
Choice (SFC) served as escorts for women 
seeking gynecological service at the 
Women’s Health Services building and the 
Summit Medical Center.
This group joined with members of the 
Beaver County chapter of the National 
Organization for Women (NOW) on Sat., 
Sept. 14 in hopes of suppressing rumored at­
tempts by pro-lifers to storm the clinics
According to SFC co-founder Katherine 
Robinson, pro-life advocators routinely 
protest against abortion at the health clinics 
on Saturdays because that is primarily when
her numbers remain a part of a permanent 
record.
When the police recover stolen goods, any 
special markings are entered into a com­
puter at the National Crime Information 
Center. If valuables are stolen, they will be 
registered along with the serial number in 
the computer at NCIC. A match can be 
made and the owner contacted immediately.
Crime Prevention Officer Sergeant Russ 
said that various locations will be designated 
on campus as places for students to have 
their valuables engraved. There will be 
posters throughout the campus advertising 
these places and times.
Unfortunately, the Police were at the 
Spirit House and Woodlawn Apartments 
already. The turnout was very small
the procedures are performed.
During the protests, the prolifers display 
vivid anti-abortion posters and distribute 
anti-abortion literature to women entering 
the clinic which, Robinson claims can be 
very disconcerting to a woman who has 
already made the decision to have an 
abortion.
At 7 a.m. that morning, six SFC members 
gathered at the Women’s Health Services 
building downtown, while six others travel­
ed to the Summit clinic. Robinson stated 
that the purpose of their presence was to 
“serve as ‘buffers’ for the women entering the 
clinics and to provide moral support for the 
personnel.”
because the operation had not been properly 
publicized. However, another date will be set 
at both of these locations if requests are 
made.
Russ also said that if the dates and times 
are inconvenient for some students, or if they 
have several valuables they wish to mark, the 
Police will loan them the engraver. In order 
to borrow it, students have only to leave their 
ID card at the Security Office in Baker Hall. 
When they’ve finished, they can return the 
engraver and give the police a list of the 
items they have marked and their serial 
number.
The number of thefts on campus is 
relatively low and has decreased during the 
past few years, however, the possibility of 
theft remains.
Robinson stated that no violent acts were 
committed on Saturday, although some 
heated discussion between pro-life and 
pro-choice activists did evolve at the Sum­
mit clinic.
Robinson noted that WHS personnel 
welcome the help of SFC and other pro- 
choice groups because the clinic’s security 
system is unable to receive police protection. 
Thus far, the situation has fallen under the 
jurisdiction of the Federal Bureau of 
Investigation.
The constant fear of violence has been the 
driving force of efforts to organize escorts on 
pro-life target days, according to SFC 
member Catherine Singstad. “People should 
be aware that this goes on all the time.”
For the 1983-84 school year, there was 
a total of 177 thefts on campus. In 137 cases, 
the property was stolen from unlocked 
rooms. In another 29 cases, the property was 
locked up, but the perpetrator gained ac- 
ces to the rooms through the use of a key. 
In only 11 cases were the thefts the result of 
forced entry.
The Police would like to increase security 
awareness on campus. They have designed 
a pocket — sized guide of safety tips and are 
soon to distribute a handbook that will in­
form people of how to protect their 
valuables, their homes and themselves.
Sergeant Ricci will be conducting a series 
of seminars on “Street Safety,” and a film en­
titled Nobody’s Victim, will be shown on 
campus.
More people have survived cancer than now live in the City of Los Angeles.
We are winning.
AMERICAN # CANCER f SOCIETY*
Pro-choicers form 'buffer zone'
V
Formation Meeting of the
ROCK-N-ROLL CLUB
Thursday, September 26 
8:30 pm Room 11 Skibo
Possibilities for this Interest group include:
Musicians exchange (for those looking to form bands) 
Album trading, borrowing 
Song writers exchange 
Sponsoring small concerts 
Sponsoring transportation to larger concerts 
Showing Rock-N-Roll films 
and anything else we can think of
The deadline for 
DOSSIER, the literary 
magazine, is October 4. 
Submit all creative work to 
The Tartan at the Skibo 
Info Desk.
Seminars Center for Design
of Educational Computing
Carnegie-Mellon University
578-7641
The Advanced Workstation: Demonstration of Educational Tools and Applications
Thursday, September 26, 1985 
Doherty Hall 2210 
3:30 • 5:00pm
Plans arc already in place to deploy powerful workstations across 
campus next year. But what progress has been made towards creating 
high-quality educational applications that exploit the unusual properties 
of these machines? And how easy is it to buUd new applications?
This presentation answers those questions by giving the university 
community its first look at new courseware designed by CMU 
faculty members. These programs have been implemented on advanced 
function workstations running the Andrew system, designed by the 
Information Technology Center. They arc being developed with the 
assistance of grants from the Center for Design of Educational 
Computing.
Developers will demonstrate their projects, discuss their goals and 
objectives, and explain how the software will be used eventually by 
students. The presentation will also take advantage of Doherty Hall’s 
newly installed projection system to give attendees a high-resoluticn 
view of the entire 1,000-by-1,000 workstation screen.
Presentations will be made by: '
• Professor Robert Schumacher, Physics: Numerical solution of diffe­
rential equations, with graphical results.
• Professor David Käufer, English: A notecarding system for writers.
• Professor Robert Richman, Chemistry: Calculation and display of 
reaction kinetics.
• Professor Mary Lou Maher, Civil Engineering: Interactive graphical 
aid for structural design.
• Professor David Miller, History: Cartographic display of historical data.
• Professor Bruce Sherwood, CDEC, ITC, and Physics: C-MU Tutor, a 
tool for creating educational computer applications.

---------------------------------------------------

• Is population growth a crisis.. .or a 
blessing?
• Can anything be done about famine?
• How can we support the growing num­
ber of elderly?
• Why are so many of our children grow­
ing up in poverty?
These and other important social and 
moral concerns will be the focus of a 
campus-wide course:
99-100: Global Population: Myths, real­
ities and policies.
Lecturers in the course will include 
many of the leading international experts 
in this field.
When. The course will be held in Skibo 
on the afternoon and evening of Friday, 
September 27 and all day on Saturday, 
September 28.
For Who. The course is available for 2 
units of academic credit to all full-time 
CMU undergraduate and graduate stu­
dents. The course is open on an audit 
basis to the entire CMU community: 
students, faculty, alumni, staff, and to 
their invited guests. All audit and credit 
participants must pre-register. Outside 
guests and alumni participants will be 
asked to pay a small registration fee.
Requirements For Credit. For students 
who elect to take the course for credit 
there will be a set of required readings 
available in the bookstore and at registra­
tion tables on campus.
There will be a brief quiz on the read­
ings during the course. There will be a 
follow-up writing assignment involving an 
essay of between 1,000 and 1,500 words.
For further information visit one of the 
registration tables set up on campus, the 
Student Activity Desk in Skibo between 9 
a.m.-5 p.m., or stop by Room 129 Baker 
Hall. Telephone: 578-2672.
Supported by the Office of the President 
Carnegie-Mellon University

---------------------------------------------------

Page 4—The Tartan—September 24,1985
Do You Want VISA & MasterCard Credit Car
Manpower wiU be needed for the curfew 
protest.
If the community is so concerned about the 
welfare of its children. Carr suggested, why not 
invest in community halls where minors can 
congregate?
The suggestion was met by Senate with ap­
proval and the promise of immediate action.
a Blood Drive in the Morewood Ree Room on 
the 24th and 25th.
MINUTES OF THE STUDENT SENATE 
September 17. 1985
FUNDING AND RECOGNITION: 
Recommendation for granting Christians on
IFC:
Rush will continue for one and a half more 
weeks.
The meeting was called to order at 7:04
PRESENT : Bett, Chu, Cohen, DeBroff, Flynn, 
Hynes, Jagerski, Lee, Lee. Mukherjee, Novak, 
rocher, Salomon, Taylor, Whysel, Dean CoxDEAN COX:
After supporting the decision to make a state­
ment about the curfew, Dean Cox discussed this 
weekend’s Global Population seminar, and in-
CHAIRMAN:
Faculty Senate will discuss the possible crea­
tion of a separate Computer ScienceABSENT : DeLeon, Kissner (excused), Salley
AUDIENCE PARTICIPATION:
Thomas Carr of the GSIA approached Senate
sburgh City Council creating a curfew for 
anyone under the age of eighteen. Under the
hours of 10:00 PM and 6:00 AM, and on 
weekends between the hours of 11:0O PM and 
8:00 AM. Any minor violating this curfew will 
be subject to arrest and a fine will be levied 
against the guardian responsible for sending this 
minor out past curfew. Carr suggested that 
Senate issue a formal protest before the city 
council by drafting a letter and then asking for 
the right to be heard at the next meeting. Call­
ing the ordinance “clearly stereotypical,” he 
pointed out the clear absence of due process and 
the violation of the First Amendment’s assurance 
of freedom to assemble as two very important 
violations to be made if this curfew is imposed.
campus will be held once a month so that cam­
pus issues can be dealt with more effectively.
Also, Karen redid the bulletin board with 
committee news and has placed four suggestion 
boxes around campus.
ACADEMIC AFFAIRS:
Still looking for issues-to-work-on.
The committee is polling students for 
suggestions.
automatic tabling of proposed amendments for 
one week. Automatically (and ironically) tabl­
ed for one week.
CAMPUS AFFAIRS:
Seana Chun has been named co-chair. Both 
Seana and Peter Cohen met with Sylvia Ford 
regarding the library space situation and she 
suggested that they speak to Dr. Cyert because 
there is no room in the library now for study 
space.
SDC:
After last week’s problem with Morewood fire 
doors, a new system has been installed.
Group activities include the purchasing of a 
big-screen tv for ’Schlag, a white water rafting 
trip to be held on Saturday. September 20, and
ANNOUNCEMENTS:
Academic Affairs meets Monday at 8:00 
Exec Committee meets Thursday.
The meeting was adjourned at 7:52.
CREDITCETTER,BOX 29X584, DAVIE,FL 33329
SYtO! I want VIS^MasterCard^credit 
| cardk. Enclosed find $15 which is 100Z 
§ refundable if not approved immediately
Now YOU can have two of tha aoct racognited and accepted 
cradle cards la tha world...VISA® and Maetarcerd^ credit
card«___“in your naW EVEN ir YOU AU NEU IN CREDIT or
HAVE BEEN TURNED DOWN BEFORE!
VISA* and MaaterCardg tha 
cradle card* you dessrva and oesd for * ID * BOOKS 
* DEPARTMENT STORES * TUITION * ENTERTAINMENT 
• EMERGENCY CASH • TICKETS • RESTAURANTS 
* HOTELS 4 HOTELS • CAS • CAR RENTALS * REPAIRS 
I * AID TO BUILD TOUR CREDIT RATING IThis 1s ths credit card information kit studants have 
bsen reading sbout in publicstlons fro* coast to 
coaat and lncludaa SPECIAL STUDENT APPLICATIONS 
for MaatarCard 4 Vlss ss wall aa other national 
charga cards. Approval abaolutaly guaranteed so 
Murry....fill out this card today.... 
\ Your crsdlt cards sra waiting!
I NAME
AOORESS
SOC SECURITYI PHONE
I SIGNATURE
INTERVIEWING - 
WHAT’S IT ALL ABOUT?
1. Preparation for the Campus Interview.
2. What Happens in the Campus Interview.. .What Information is 
Sought... How is it Obtained... How is it Used?
3. What Happens After the Campus Interview.. .How to Follow 
Up...How to Handle a Plant or Office Visit.
These and other questions will be answered in a seminar
* WEDOCT.2 7:30pm BH-AdamsonWing
Automation: Tomorrow’s Technology Today- 
The IBM Lexington, Kentucky Story.
*1HJR0CT3 Ham to 4pm Skibo BaUrocm
A conference where students from all academic 
disciplines are invited to come and talk freely and 
informally with company representatives.
Air Products • ALCOA • Allegheny Power System ¦
American Management Systems-AT&T Companies- 
Bell Communications • Boeing • Chrysler • Corning • 
Digital El. Dupont - F MC-General Dynamics- 
General Electric ¦ GTE • Hewlett-Packard Company •
HHB Softron • IBM • Jet Propulsion • Kodak • LOF Glass • 
Lawrence-Livermore ¦ Lear Siegler • Microsoft • 
McDonnell Douglas ¦ National Steel • Night Vision- 
Olin • Perk in-Elm er ¦ Procter & Gamble • Goodyear- 
Singer-Kearfott • System Development Corp.- 
Standard Oil Company • Texas Instruments- 
United States Navy - U.S. Steel-Xerox.................
Sponsored by the CMU Student Branches of SWE and IEEE.
TO BE HELD ON TUESDAY,
SEPTEMBER 24,1985 at 7:30 P.M.
IN THE BALLROOM IN SKIBO
PANELISTS INCLUDE:
Barbara M. Hudson, MELLOH BAHK
John J. Cotter, E.l. DU PONT DE NEMOURS & 
COMPANY
George Pernicano, ARTHUR ANDERSEN AND 
COMPANY
ALL UNIVERSITY STUDENTS ARE URGED TO ATTEND
Career Services and Placement 
Carnegie-Mellon University

---------------------------------------------------

September 24,1985—The Tartan—Page 5
SupercomputerJFC News
Sigma Alpha Epsilon Fraternity held its 
third annual window wash for charity 
September 13. Automobiles, which were 
stopped at the Forbes Ave. and Morewood 
Ave. traffic light, had their windows wash­
ed and were asked to make donations for the 
benefit of Children’s Hospital. Brett Ligo 
Vice-president and fund raising chairman 
of SAE, said the project was a complete suc­
cess, and the best one ever. The highlight 
of the afternoon was a donation and a 
friendly wave from Mr. (Fred) Rogers. The 
final tally of donations was over $330.00 
which will be given to Childrens Hospital.
Once again, the Brothers of Sigma Alpha 
Epsilon would like to thank all those who 
took part in such a worthy cause.Washington Semester: American University
continued from page 1
minence in computing, as well as their 
distinguished faculty, innovative networking 
environments and close ties to industry. The 
project has been marked by close coopera­
tion among Pitt, CMU and Westinghouse 
and stands as an excellent example of what 
can be achieved by creative collaboration 
between industry and academia.”
Students at both Carnegie —- Mellon and 
the University of Pittsburgh will also benefit 
from the acquisition, being trained in the 
techniques involved in supercomputing and 
it integrated in other courses. The primary 
benefit, however, will be the city’s. Univer­
sity if Pittsburgh President Wesely W. 
Posvar said that the supercomputer’s 
presence in Pittsburgh “is another element 
in the transformation of the city and region
Honeywell will launch its fourth annual 
Futurist Awards Competition Oct. 1 with an 
increased incentive for college students to 
enter —a $10,000 grand prize.
This year’s contest, which asks college 
students to write essays about technological 
advancements they foresee by the year 2010, 
will offer ten winners $2,000 and the chance 
to work for Honeywell next summer. For the 
first time, one of these will be chosen top 
winner and will receive an additional $8,000 
for a total prize of $10,000. Last year 600 
students, representing 255 colleges and 
universities nationwide, entered the 
competition.
The contest is open to all full-time 
students at any accredited college in the 
United States. Students are asked to leap 
ahead 25 years and write essays predicting
into a center for high-tech research and 
development. There will be an increased 
synergistic effect among the universities, 
hi-tech businesses and other research 
organizations because of the availability of 
the supercomputer and associated expertise.” 
Pittsburgh Mayor Richard Caliguiri saw 
the supercomputer grant as a boost for 
ecomomic recovery in Pittsburgh, saying 
“The supercomputer center will not only 
benefit Pitt, CMU and Westinghouse in their 
research efforts but will also act as a high- 
tech magnet to attract those businesses 
which can make use of the center s computer 
expertise. The center’s location here is a most 
important contribution to the development 
of Pittsburgh’s hi-tech, hi-growth 
business climate.”
developments in two of six technological 
areas: electronic communications, energy, 
aerospace, computer science, manufactur­
ing automation or office automation. A 
third essay must address the societal impact 
of the technological predictions. Each of the 
three essays should be 500 to 750 words long.
Completed essays should be postmarked 
no later than Dec. 31, 1985. In January, a 
panel of top Honeywell scientists and 
engineers will judge the essays on the basis 
of creativity, feasibility, clarity of expression 
and legibility.
Winners will be announced in early 
February, and each of the ten winners will 
receive a two-day, all-expense-paid trip to 
Honeywell’s headquarters in Minneapolis. 
The grand-prize winner will be announced 
at this event.
By LISA MC ANANY
Tartan Staffwriter
CMU has participated in the Washington 
Semester program offered by the American 
University in Washington D.C., for almost 
twenty years. The program itself is about 
forty years old and involves approximately 
200 colleges and universities around the na­
tion. Students spend one semester at the 
American University gaining in-depth ex­
perience in one of five fields: American na­
tional government, politics, economic policy, 
journalism or justice. During the semester, 
the students’ curriculum includes: a seminar, 
an internship, a research project, and in 
some cases, a course of the student’s choos­
ing from American University.
Approximately 400 students from around 
the country take part in this program dur­
ing any one semester. These students remain 
largely separate from the campus 
mainstream. The seminars are conducted by 
full-time professors of the American Univer­
sity faculty, but are not open to American 
University students. In addition, the 
Washington Semester students are housed in 
their own dormitory. This separation has its 
relative advantages for the visiting students. 
For example: a CMU student participating
in this program maintains his status as a 
CMU student and is simply considered to be 
in residence in Washington D.C. for a 
semester. Also, students pay regular CMU 
tuition and must only pay American Univer­
sity’s room and board fee.
Rob Berkowitz, currently a senior major­
ing in technical writing, spent a semester in 
Washington in 1984. He worked as an intern 
for the air and space department of the 
Smithsonian Institute in journalism.
According to Rob, the most surprising 
thing about the program is that no one here 
knows about it. He points out that at other 
schools which take part in the program, the 
competition for a place in the program is 
fierce, whereas at CMU, nearly anyone who 
demonstrates an interest can go.
Dr. Eugene Levy, associate head of the 
history and philosophy department here at 
CMU, maintains the liaison between 
Carnegie-Mellon and the American Univer­
sity. He too is pleased with the experiences 
individual students have had during their 
Washington Semester, and recognizes the ex­
cellent opportunities which the program af­
fords. Dr. Levy is available to any students 
wishing to gain further knowledge about the 
Washington Semester Program.
Honeywell offers prize 
for futuristic vision
What is the name of a half­
mask worn with a mas­
querade costume?
What city did Domino’s 
Pizza first offer its 
famous 30 minute free 
delivery?
The more you know a boot Domino’s Pizza, the more you’ II appreciate the fact that we’re America’s Number One pizza deli­very company. After all, getting a hot, delicious pizza like ours delivered right to your door in 30 minutes or less is anything but trivial!
Open for lunch11 am - 2am Sun - Thun 
11am-3am FrlA Sat.
Our drivers carry less than $20.00.Limited delivery area.
• 1M4 Domino'« Puza. inc.
'"II I
pizza *One coupon per pizza I
$1.00 off any
Expires: 10/6/85
Fast, Free Delivery
310 N. Craig St Phone 681-1700
623 Greenfield Ave Phone: 521-2070
DOMINO’S
PIZZA
DELIVERS
FREE.
rm¦I¦IIIII¦IIaI¦INA
$2.00 off any 16" large 2 item or more pizza One coupon per pizza 
Expires: 10/6/85
Fast, Free Delivery'
310 N Craig St Phone 681-1700
623 Greenfield Ave Phone 521-2970
1IIIIIIIIIIIIIII
Calculus PH - 126A
Pro I, II. Ill
Physics PH - 126B
Chemistry PH - 225B
English as a BH - 135B
second language
Economics PH - 226B
Intro to Computing WEH-5415
Financial Accounting PH - 226C
Academic Writing Problems BH - 235B
DOMINO’S 
PIZZA^H
free walk-in tutoring program 
each week
•pontored by Studwtf Attain and 
It» CounMNng and Student Dwlopmtit C*nt*r 
In Morewood Gardon* E Iowm. *2922
Sunday thru thursday 7pm—10pm

---------------------------------------------------

Before you make 
a long distance commitment, 
mate sure you know 
what you’re getting into.
If Fletcher Christian and Captain Bligh had known what being stuck in the same boat would mean, chances are neither would have set foot aboard.And if you're stuck in the same boat with a long distance company that doesn't give you all the services you need, it's easy to harbor mutinous thoughts.But when you pick AT&T as your long distance company, you know you're in for smooth sailing.
You'll get trouble-free, reliable service. Immediate connections—even during the busiest hours. Guaranteed 60% and 40% discounts off our Day Rate on state-to-state calls. And operators to assist you with immediate credit for wrong numbers and collect calling.So when you're asked to choose a long distance company, sign aboard with AT&T. With AT&T Long Distance Service, you'll never be left stranded. 
Reach out and touch someone.®
© 1985 AT&T Communications
AT&TThe right choice.

---------------------------------------------------

Features.
In the SpotUght
Phil Kragnes: There's not a lot he doesn't do
By CHRISTY CASAMASSIMA
Tartan Features Editor
Phil Kragnes lost total vision to Diabetic 
Retinopoly three weeks into his senior year 
in high school. He dropped all of his classes 
except for English and still graduated on 
time with the rest of his class.
Although he faced a number of obstacles, 
Phil decided to continue his education at 
Montgomery Community College, where he 
learned to use braille, type, and get around 
with a cane. But Phil wanted more than an 
Associate of Academics degree, which was 
all the school offered, so he decided to look 
into other colleges. Phil applied to CMU 
with an interest in Cognitive Psychology and 
Computer Science, however, CMU didn’t 
have much previous experience with blind 
students. In addition, CMU was hesitant 
about laying out the funds for the readers 
and scribes needed to help Phil with his 
schoolwork. Then Jay Devine, Dean of 
H&SS, stepped in. He found out that the 
Pittsburgh Association for Blindness was 
willing to pay for Phil’s scribes and readers, 
along with granting additional financial aid 
for Phil’s tuition. So Phil was admitted this 
fall as a second semester sophomore.
Phil plans to remain at CMU for his 
undergraduate and graduate studies. He is 
working towards his Ph.D in Cognitive 
Psychology and hopes to become a teacher. 
His main ambition is to work with people. 
“I love people, I like to help them.” That’s 
why Phil has decided to go into teaching, 
counseling service, or research. He feels that 
psychology and teaching will afford him the 
opportunity to help people and be in cons­
tant contact with them.
Phil has been blind for three years. At first 
he used a cane to get around, but for the 
past year and a half he’s had Orlan, a seeing- 
eye dog. This dog is amazing; it is trained 
to get Phil places and move around people.
Phil wants people to know that although 
Orlan is a German Sheperd, he will not bite. 
However, if Phil is walking along campus 
with Orlan on his harness, please do not try 
to pet him because he is trained to avoid all 
objects, and if a person puts a hand out in 
front of him, he will try to back away in the 
opposite direction. A lot of people wonder 
how the dog knows where it is going. Phil 
says that it’s up to him to become familiar 
with places, and then he commands the dog 
in the direction he should move. Through 
routine, Orlan becomes familiar with Phil’s 
schedule and automatically goes places 
unless Phil directs him otherwise. If, by 
chance, Phil and Orlan get disoriented, they 
simply ask someone where they are. The dog 
is also a good companion to Phil, in fact, 
they live together in an apartment on 
Morewood Ave.
Phil says that he’s used to living alone, 
since his parents went away a lot when he 
was younger. When Phil was five years old, 
he learned to take care of himself, and now 
he’s accustomed to his independence. He says 
that a roommate would be an impedi­
ment to him because a blind person needs 
to know exactly where everything is and 
because he needs total concentration while 
studying.
Phil’s average day is very busy: He gets up 
at 6 a.m., walks and feeds Orlan, takes a 
shower, and makes his bed. At seven, he calls 
security and they have a shuttle pick him up 
on Centre Ave. Then Phil goes to Kiltie for 
breakfast, where someone helps him select 
his food and carries his tray. He goes to 
Calculus until 9:30 and then walks back 
home to listen to tapes of his books. He is 
back at school for his 11:30 Economics Class, 
has lunch, and lets Orion run free on the 
cut. He has History, and a reader in the 
afternoon. Phil’s readers are usually CMU 
students who volunteer to read him han­
douts, assignments, and other printed 
materials.
Most of Phil’s books are taped and he says 
this can be a problem. When a sighted per­
son reads a boring book and falls asleep, he 
wakes up where he left off. But for Phil, fall­
ing asleep during a tape is bothersome 
because the tape runs through until the end, 
and Phil must start again at the beginning. 
Phil also tapes all of his class notes. Since 
almost all of Phil’s study is done orally, 
his retention capabilities are better than 
most sighted people’s; he can’t be distracted 
by other sights, and therefore, concentrates 
on the materials alone. Most teachers have 
agreed to let Phil take tests orally. However, 
in those cases where a written answer is need­
ed, Phil brings both a reader and a scribe 
to the test; the reader reads the question, 
and the scribe writes down Phil’s answers. 
For paper writing, Phil uses a typewriter or 
his new PC. with a voice synthesizer, which 
tells Phil when he’s made spelling errors.
Phil feels that his blindness is not a great 
handicap. His attitude towards his blindness 
is surprisingly optimistic. He says that it 
slows him down, but it doesn’t stop him. Phil 
feels that everyone has a handicap or pro­
blem of one sort, and that just because his 
is physical he’s not angry or bitter. Phil 
speaks of the advantages of being blind, “I 
use my other senses. If everyone could lose 
their sight for just one week they’d appreciate 
things more. I lived in a small neighborhood 
for eleven years and it was getting boring. 
When I lost my sight, I went around and ex­
perienced my surroundings in a new way. It 
was an adventure.”
Phil is more active than most people; he’s 
an outdoorsy person who likes to try new 
things. Phil enjoys rock climbing, hiking up 
Sugarloaf Mountain, and white water raf­
ting. In fact, Phil helped teach a course in 
white water rafting; he showed other
students how to tie complicated knots by 
closing their eyes and feeling the ropes on 
top of each other. Phil is also interested in 
skydiving. Isn’t he afraid? “No,” he says, 
“since I can’t see how far up I am.”
Phil says that it’s natural for people to 
hesitate around him, but he wants people 
to come up and talk. He often makes blind 
people jokes to lighten the atmosphere with 
people he’s just met. “I’m not made of glass, 
you know. I like to rough house.” Phil plays 
frisbee with a beeping disk, he likes to cook, 
go rollerskating, and ride a double bike. He 
goes to movies, parties, and watches T. V. 
There’s not a lot that Phil doesn’t do.
As far as social life goes, Phil doesn’t like 
huge parties, he does, however, like to hang 
out with groups of ten or twelve people. Phil 
says that meeting people at CMU has been
made easier with Orlan, “I meet a lot of peo­
ple, they just come up and ask questions 
about the dog and we make friends.” He also 
meets people through his scribes and 
readers. Phil’s last girlfriend was at the Com­
munity College. But Phil says that he doesn’t 
want to get stuck in a permanent relation­
ship, “Dating is more special now because 
I must be attracted to a girl’s inner personali­
ty instead of her looks, so I just want to date.”
Phil would like to be considered as an in­
spiration to others. As a teacher, he would 
be able to say, “Look, if I can do it without 
sight, you certainly can with.”
Phil finds that some people are embar­
rassed to talk to him because they are scared 
of saying the wrong thing. Phil says this most 
often happens when people say something 
like, “I saw you on the cut,” or “I’ll see you 
later.” Phil says that he can see, just in a dif­
ferent way. Phil is not a formidable 
character, he’s happy and very ap­
proachable. Don’t get fooled into thinking 
that because Phil is blind he is somehow dif­
ferent; he’s not, he’s a regular guy.
Pittsburgh celebrates Carnegie's 150th
By MITCHELL REICHGUT
Tartan Staffwriter
This November 25th will mark the ses- 
quicential anniversary of the birth of An­
drew Carnegie; in other words it will be his 
150th birthday. Andrew Carnegie should not 
simply be remembered as the boy who came 
here from Scotland with nothing, grew a 
beard, got rich, and then founded CMU. He 
should be remembered for the great con­
tributions he made to Pittsburgh. Not only 
was Carnegie a wealthy steel magnate, he 
was the benefactor of most of this city’s 
cultural life as well. He is, of course, respon­
sible for founding Carnegie Tech, which is 
now Carnegie-Mellon University. He also 
founded a library, an art museum, and a 
music hall.(All of which supply Pittsburgh 
with a bit of culture and personality.)
To celebrate the birth of the man to whom 
Pittsburgh owes so much, the Carnegie 
Museum, the Carnegie Library, and CMU 
will have a great deal of FREE events going 
on from September through December 
which everyone can enjoy. On September 
28th rain or shine, there will be a “Family 
Fling” at the Carnegie Complex in Oakland. 
At 9:00 a.m., things will begin at the 
Carnegie Library. Outside of the Carnegie 
Institute, which will open at 10:00, there will 
be a parade, demonstrations, storytellers, 
musicians, dancers, craftsmen, and a Scot­
tish shepherd will be on hand with a flock 
of Scottish sheep. There will also be Scot­
tish sports events such as a sheath toss, a 
stone put, and a caber toss. The Museum
of Natural History and the Museum of Art 
will open free of charge, and there will be 
a huge cardboard “Camegie-Creature,” 
(which spectators can help build), a 
children’s room, and food vendors.
Other events at the Museum include The 
1985 Carnegie International Exhibit, (Nov.9 
through Jan. 5, 1986), James Galway and 
members of the Pittsburgh Symphony at the 
Music Hall, (Nov.IS), a one-day stamp col­
lection at the Carnegie Library, (Nov.25), 
and “Mr. Carnegie’s Museum” (which opens
November 26).
CMU students are doing their share too. 
There will be a CMU Symphony Orchestra 
Concert at 8p.m., Wednesday, Nov.20th at 
the Music Hall. The Camegie-Mellon 
University Trio will also be performing at the 
Music Hall, at 7p.m., Sunday, Nov.24th with 
a champagne reception. On campus, peo­
ple can enjoy Andrew Carnegie Illustrations 
at the Ellis Gallery, at CFA from 9a.m. to 
5p.m.,Monday through Friday, Nov. 
18-25th. From Nov.2nd through Dec 22nd,
Mel Bochner Drawings will be on display at 
the Hewlett Gallery in CFA. At the Hunt 
Library, in the Fine and Rare Book Room, 
Andrew Carnegie the Writer Exhibit can be 
seen Monday through Friday, 1:30 to 4:30 
p.m. also, watch out for more up and com­
ing student events. Remember, all of these 
events are free, and everyone is welcome to 
enjoy them. If Andy were alive today he 
would want you to take a break and have 
some fun, so go ahead and take advantage 
of the celebration.

---------------------------------------------------

Page 8—The Tartan—September 24,1985
Counseling Center offers students help
By ERIKA M. QUIROZ
Tartan Staffwriter
The CMU Counseling Center, located in 
Morewood Gardens, sits like a mother hen 
cooing protectively over her egg of CMU 
students. The Counseling Center offers help 
for a variety of problems. Its main concern 
is the emotional well being of the students. 
Says director Lorrie Rabin, “Academics are 
well taken care of. We see ourselves as 
available to people in need of emotional sup­
port.”
The Counseling Center deals with many 
problems, ranging from depression and anx­
iety to difficulties with family and relation­
ships. Many students receive counseling due 
to feelings of low self worth and loneliness.
The center also otters many different types 
of counseling. Professionals counsel in­
dividuals as well as provide support groups 
focused on particular areas of concern. The 
groups are chosen by talking to students to 
get a sense of their particular needs. A 
“Family and Transition” group came about 
as a result of requests from students dealing 
with divorce. Other groups are centered 
around stress management, shyness, eating 
problems such as bolemia and anorexia, and
S & S auditions 
begin Saturday
By HELENE NEWBERC
Tartan Staffwriter
Scotch N’ Soda, CMU’s student theater 
group, announces auditions for their first 
production of the 1985-86 season, a pair of 
one act plays. The plays will run on the 
weekend of November 15, Friday and Satur­
day nights at 8:00 pm, in the Mellon In­
stitute Auditorium.
Scripts for LINE, a play by Isreal 
Horovitz, are presently on reserve in Hunt 
Library. The second one-act, possibly an 
original student work, will be announced 
shortly. Auditions for both plays will be held 
on Saturday and Sunday, September 28 and 
29, from noon until 5:00 pm in the Mellon 
Institute Auditorium. It is strongly recom­
mended that actors auditioning have a 
prepared monologue of dramatic material 
and read the script for LINE prior to 
auditioning.
Scotch N’ Soda is open to any CMU stu­
dent, and you can get involved by contac­
ting Lauren Schneider at x2644 or Mary 
Beth Gilmore at x4546.
Futons, iss
THE COMFORTABLE 
JAPANESE COUCH 
OR BED. 661-6499 
CARLISLE MATTRESS 
FACTORY OUTLET
IF YOU NEED A 
LAWYER 
CALL 
683-3555
INCORPORATIONS 
LANDLORD - TENANT 
CRIMINAL LAW - TRIAL DEFENSE
MURRAY A. FELDER
ATTORNEY AT LAW 
3447 Forbes Ave. 
OAKLAND
Time to... 
Care More, 
Share More
studying skills. They also offer Crisis 
Counseling and have a “Crisis Night” pro­
gram to deal with emergencies and poten­
tial suicides.
The Counseling Center came about as a 
result of a growing need for more concen­
trated attention on emotional problems. 
Originally, the center was known as the 
Bureau of Measurement and Guidance 
which ran tests on intelligence evaluations, 
aptitude, interest, personality, attitude and 
various other evaluations. The growth of the 
center was also initiated by Student Affairs 
as a need to address the personal needs of 
CMU students.
Besides the individual counseling and 
support groups, the Counseling Center sup­
plies workshops for stress managment and 
tutoring sessions which began last year. Last 
year alone they held over 800 tutoring ses­
sions which were taught by students who had 
received an “A” in the particular courses 
This year the tutoring includes eight dif­
ferent courses: Calculus I, II, and III, 
Physics, Chemistry, English as a Second 
Language, Economics, Intro to Computing 
Financial Counseling & Academic Writing 
Problems.
In addition to this work, the Counseling 
Center is jointly involved with the Health 
Center. When symptoms of both emotional 
and physical problems are present, the 
students are referred from one to another for 
a more complete diagnosis and treatment. 
They have also worked on Educational Pro­
gramming together and plan to do more in 
the future.
The Counseling Center employs a staff of 
three professional level counselors, Lorrie 
Rabin, Roseanne Hickey, and Stewart 
Sadowsky; seven advanced doctoral students, 
Jack Foehl, Kathleen Hoy, Lynne Kalman, 
Michael Lechner, Pat Riccelli and Maria 
Riva; and one counsulting psychiatrist, 
Richard Flemming. Also employed by the 
Counseling Center is secretary Jean Barr, a 
vital figure in the centers outreach. She is 
warm and welcoming and makes students 
feel at ease. Rabin says, “It is not hard to 
come here. Jean does a good job of making 
people feel comfortable.”
The staff is a truly concerned group of 
people. They make time for all who have the 
need to come. “You don’t have to be bounc­
ing off the walls to come here,” Rabin says,
“We are available for everyday worries that 
are proving difficult to settle in.”
The Center is a very active operation and 
at times there is a waiting list but the staff 
has made changes in structure and employed 
more counselors to reduce the problem. 
“Word was getting out about the waiting 
list,” says Rabin, “but we feel very strongly 
about urging people in need of help to come 
despite the list. We will see people in need 
of immediate help.” The center has also in­
itiated a fifteen minute intake interview 
where all cases will be given at least fifteen 
minutes time to determine the severity of the 
problem.
The Center does short term work that 
usually does not run over twelve sessions. If 
it is needed, the patient will be referred to 
local professionals at the Psychiatric Hospital 
in Oakland where they have negotiated a 
contract that permits them to refer students 
to the resident staff for little or no fee.
The major concentration of the Counsel­
ing Center is not on just counseling but on 
outreach. Says Rabin, “We want the students 
to know that they are not alone. We’re out 
there.”
From ourFromFruTIVr, ANYTHING’m FOmmIBLr.
VISIT US AT THE 
CMU TECHNICAL 
OPPORTUNITY 
CONFERENCE 
. on October 3rd
A perspective of intelligence, imagina­
tion, and drive has always characterized 
Microsoft’s approach to microcomputer 
systems software. If you share our per­
spective, come join us . . . and go to 
work on projects that will propel the . 
entire industry forward. Networking . . . 
sophisticated graphics . . . hardware/ 
software components . . . operating sys­
tems . . . compilers . . . productivity 
applications . . . and more.
You’ll work with hardware so new it 
hasn’t been publicly introduced . . . and 
watch your input find its way into new
systems headed for the marketplace. All 
the advantages of Microsoft’s work 
environment will be yours—including all 
the high-level hardware, development 
systems and software development tools 
you need. You will also interact on a 
daily basis with the sharpest professionals 
in the business.
Microsoft took the lead at the begin­
ning of the microcomputer software 
industry. We have set the standards in 
research, design, development, and mar­
keting ever since. Today, Microsoft holds 
the lead in providing operating systems 
(MS-DOS and XENIX) for key hardware 
manufacturers’ workstations and personal 
computers using 80286, 68000 series, 
and future 32-bit microprocessors.
Our work environment is comple­
mented by our location in Bellevue, 
Washington, featuring all the attractions 
of the Great Pacific Northwest, and just 
across the lake from Seattle.
The Microsoft perspective will intro­
duce you to a new world of possibilities 
in microcomputer systems software.
Explore your future with Micro­
soft. We’re looking for Software 
Design Engineers. Check with your 
career office for position details or 
visit with our representatives at the 
CMU Technical Opportunity Con­
ference on October 3rd.
MICROSOFT
The High Performance Software
MICROSOFT CORPORATION 
Box 97200 
Bellevue, Washington 98009
An equal opportunity employer, m/f.

---------------------------------------------------

Entertainment.
Yakov Smirnoff on America: What a country!
photo by Olve Peersen
Yakov Smirnoff: everything you always wanted in a comedian. . .OR ELSE.
Compromising Positions
By AMANDA COHEN
Tartan Staffwriter
Yakov Smirnoff said himself that perfor­
ming in Russia insured a “captured” au­
dience. Well, the CMU audience didn’t need 
the KGB to tell them to enjoy Friday’s show 
in the Skibo Ballroom. Smirnoff captured 
us himself.
Smirnoff began by explaining that he is 
originally from Russia, and has been a com­
edian in America for eight years. He then 
answered questions from the enthusiastic au­
dience. The questions ranged from what he 
thought of life in America to what he was 
doing after the show.
Most people asked about comparisons 
between the USA and the USSR. One stu­
dent wanted to know what sort of commer­
cials there were in the Soviet Union. Smir­
noff answered first that the majority of the 
commercials were military, as there were no 
brand names to advertise. He described an 
ad in which two soldiers are sitting in a tank. 
The first says, “We can’t invade any more 
countries,” and the other says, “How ’bout 
for a Michelob Light?”
There were a few interjections of Russian 
dialogue with some students. Of Russian 
comedy, which is to some a contradiction in 
terms, Smirnoff explained the strict censor­
ship held comedians to rigid scripts and 
allowed no improvisation. This leads to an 
absolute lack of audience rapport.
However, this freedom of speech is vital 
to Smirnoffs routine, as he uses the typical 
questions to lead his prepared materials, 
creating the effect of improvisation. Smir­
noff said that they do have freedom of 
speech in Russia, but in America you still 
have freedom after speech.
In an interview after the show, Smirnoff 
said that starting out as a comedian in 
Russia is similar to starting out as a come­
dian in the United States. Russian comics, 
however, are required to heavily censor their 
own material. “You can’t be caught dead 
with the wrong material,” he said, meaning 
it literally. In a past show at the Iron Horse 
Cafe in Northhampton, Mass., he said that 
the self-censorship, and later censorship by 
the “Department of Jokes” left little more
By BRUCE KASREL
Tartan Staffwriter
One of the greatest musicians of the cen­
tury, Issac Stem, took center stage at Heinz 
Hall on Friday. Playing Johannes Brahms 
Violin Concerto, the stout 65 year old 
musical genius played with style and vigor 
that is seldom heard from violinists of any 
age, much less a 50+ year veteran.
The Concerto in D Major for Violin and 
Orchestra was written in 1878. The work, 
written for the great violinist Joseph 
Joachim, was considered a very bright and 
cheerful piece from such a dramatic com­
poser as Brahms. Many sections of the piece, 
including the candenzas, were either writ­
ten or transcribed by Joachim, a great com­
poser in his own right. Joachim’s original in­
terpretation in the cadenza, now the stan­
dard, was filled with quick-fingered passages 
that almost contradict the main theme. 
However, Brahms brilliantly finds a way to 
blend these distinct different ideas and came 
out with a fantastic score.
Stern, who has played this piece many 
times, chooses to stay the traditional track 
and play the piece as it was first played by 
Joachim. At times Stern played the soft 
passages a little bit too quietly and slowly, 
but his flawless technique and his many 
years of experience kept his level of playing 
somewhere between great and exceptional. 
The orchestra tended to be a tad overpower­
ing in many of the soft sections and the 
woodwinds had a few intonation problems.
than things like fish, the moon, and buttons 
from which to eke out comedic routines.
A good deal of his current material 
centers on the strange, new world he found 
when he came here eight years ago, such as 
small language problems. For example, he 
said that he was surprised to hear the word 
“Yup” so often, because in Russian it means 
“sex.” He talked about being confused by see­
ing grits on a Southern menu, thinking that 
grits were a part of a woman’s body (as in: 
“Kiss my grits!”). Yup.
Smirnoff also cited some of his television 
appearances, including a part on the series 
Night Court and a lite beer commercial (“in 
Russia we also have a light beer.. .‘Everything 
you always wanted in a beer...Or Else.’ ”). His 
movie appearances include Moscow on the 
Hudson, Buckaroo Banzai, and Brewster’s 
Millions. In the latter, his one line was his 
repeated catch-phrase for any fascinating 
American peculiarity; “What a Country!”
Of the Camegie-Mellon crowd, which was 
standing-room-only, he said it was “ one of 
the better, intelligent respones. They knew 
when to laugh and when to hiss at all the 
right times.” The group also knew what to 
do and the end of the fantastic show; 
everyone gave Smirnoff an enthusiastic stan­
ding ovation.
Sam Simon, a native of Pittsburgh, was 
the opening act. Simon’s act featured stan­
dard magic tricks and above-standard au­
dience relation, despite the expected 
rudeness. The assistants he volunteered 
nearly stole the show (as well as his magic 
wand) but Simon came away with a good 
deal of the laughs. Interviewed after the 
show, Simon said that he was very happy to 
have been invited. Simon had known Smif- 
noff before the show, and was delighted to 
open for him and to find such a receptive 
audience.
American life doesn’t seem to be treating 
Smirnoff too badly. He recently finished 
filming a movie with Meryl Streep and Jack 
Nicholson called Heartburn. Definitely not 
an opportunity he would have found in the 
U.S.S.R. Is Yakov Smirnoff going to have a 
prosperous future? Yup.
Despite these few flaws, the piece was well 
done and was greeted with a standing ova­
tion (the first of the season) by the sold out 
audience.
Before the Brahms concerto, the or­
chestra played the Overture to Benvenuto 
Cellini by Hector Berlioz. The Pittsburgh 
Symphony and Berlioz is a great combina­
tion, and the orchestra played this peice 
with grace and intensity — as it should be. 
It is a shame that this piece was the only 
scheduled work by Berlioz for the season.
After the intermission the mood took a 
total about-face. Playing Igor Stravinsky’s in­
tense Rite of Spring the orchestra had to 
shift styles from melodic and flowing to 
harsh and jagged. Although the piece is very 
unconventional, it was perfect for the 
dramatic conducting of Christoph Eschen- 
bach. Directing with a firm baton, Eschen- 
bach moved the orchestra through the piece 
masterfully and really gave an excellent per­
formance.
The fine performance of Stravinsky piece 
as well as the other works can be attributed 
to the excellent poise of the orchestra, which 
had to traverse both ends of the musical 
spectrum through the concert. Remarkably, 
the orchestra lost very little character in the 
process.
A final note for students ad senior 
citizens: one hour before the performance 
any remaining tickets are just $7, a steal 
considering the world class status of the Pitt­
sburgh Symphony.
By KAREN J. ELINICH
Tartan Staffwriter
Dr. Bruce Fleckstein, a successful 
periodontist, puts his patients in Com­
promising Positions and uses his Polaroid to 
preserve the memory. When he is suddenly 
murdered, most of the women of 
Shorehaven are suspect.
From this premise springs this quite enter- 
entertaining film by Frank Perry. The amus­
ing murder mystery follows Judith Singer, an 
“ex-journalist,” as she does some investigative 
reporting. She is intrigued by the mystery of 
her gum-surgeon’s murder and she is bored. 
Her husband is a stuffy, successful lawyer 
who wears a navy three-piece suit and com­
mutes by train to the city each day. She shops 
or visits her equally bored friends each day 
as she has for the past seven years. When 
something as exciting as a murder happens 
in her community, she finds herself unable 
to hold back her long dormant instincts as 
a journalist even though her husband is 
strongly against it.
Susan Sarandon gives a fine performance 
as Judith. She convincingly presents the con-
By KATE BONELLO
Special to The Tartan
Waldorf: Doug Cooper’s Level II Ar­
chitecture Studio opens tonight at seven 
p.m. at the Forbes Gallery. The show runs 
through Sunday, September 29.
Waldorf is the collective endeavor of nine 
students: Stephen Scleroff, Rachel O’Neill, 
Ira David Bers, Alan Estabrock, Scott Shan­
non, Loretta Lung, Jill Watson, Joe Basipio, 
and Lew Korczinewsky. They were all
flict that her character feels over the choice 
between “scooping” the story and being the 
wife that her husband wants her to be. Her 
performance has a kind of familiarity about 
it—her Judith is straight from the pages of 
an L.L. Bean catalog—and it goes over well.
Raul Julia, quite busy these days with Kiss 
of the Spider Woman as well as Compromis­
ing Positions, provides us with a really strong 
performance as the homicide detective who 
investigates Fleckstein s murder and Judith’s 
emotions. His character comes through most 
strongly, showing himself as a truly talented 
actor.*
Once again, Edward Herrmann shines in 
a supporting role. This time, he is wonder­
ful as Judith's husband. He has lately been 
proving himself a solid actor in memorable 
supporting roles. Most recently, the brightest 
character in this summer’s The Man with 
One Red Shoe was his CIA apprentice to 
Charles Duming.
Compromising Positions isn’t the greatest 
film, but it is an amusing and suspenseful 
mystery with some fine performances.
members of the architecture studio taught 
last semester by Professor Doug Cooper. The 
project which is shown this week is a plan 
for the Waldorf School, an experimental 
international school founded in Germany in 
the 1930’s by Rudolf Steiner.
The Waldorf School attempted to teach 
children to be competent mentally, physical­
ly, and emotionally—as opposed to attemp­
ting teaching children to remember facts 
continued on p*9* 11
The Pittsburgh Symphony
Forbes Gallery: Architecture

---------------------------------------------------

°3ge 10—The Tartan—September 24,1985
Here’s Weird A1 and The Stupid Band trying to look stupid (and succeeding)
Get to the answers faster. 
With thelï'55-n.
What you need to tackle 
the higher mathematics of a 
science or engineering cur­
riculum are more functions - 
more functions than a simple 
slide-rule calculator has.
Enter the TI-55-II, with 
112 powerful functions. You 
can work faster and more 
accurately with the TI-55-II, 
because it’s preprogrammed
to perform complex calcula­
tions - like definite integrals, 
linear regression and hyper- 
bolics - at the touch of a 
button. And it can also be 
programmed to do repetitive 
problems without re-entering 
the entire formula.
Included is the Calculator 
Decision-Making Sourcebook.
It makes the process of using
the TI-55-II even simpler, 
and shows you how to use all 
the power of the calculator.
Get to the answers faster. 
Let a TI-55-II 
show you how.
iaster.
photb 
yAbndGihAnb
Creating useful products 
and services for you.
$55.00
Genuine Diamond in I OK Gold
Promise her in time 
Your love will bloom. . .
We promise in time 
to allow full amount 
toward engagement ring.
IMPERIAL JEWELRY
Maxon Towers 
6315 Forbes Avenue 
One Mile Out From Campus
(412) 521-8930
Weird Al Yankovic and his
continued on page 11
with you.” A bit drawn out, it’s still funny.
“Yoda,” a classic cut from way back when, 
finally appears on an album. This song has 
the unique potential to tick off both “Star 
Wars” freaks and Kinks fans alike. This song 
is good and strange; for some reason Al’s 
voice doesn’t sound too awful here. Turning 
a classic rock song into a ballad about train­
ing to be a Jedi Knight is a bit stupid, but 
keep in mind that A1 put the “sick” into the 
word “classic(k).”
Another great bit here is the performance 
of “George of the Jungle” theme: yes, that 
old cartoon that was more than a little 
bizarre. Backed by an encore performance 
by the original George (Bill Scotti) this 
popped-up version of the theme for an ec- 
clectic cartoon series fits in well with all the 
other stuff on the album. What more needs 
to be said... .art for art’s sake must inevitably 
be followed with silliness just for the heck 
of it.
Another original tune is “Slime Creatures 
From Outer Space.” I didn’t like this one — it 
doesn’t seem funny so much as it is just 
weird, and a bit hyperactive now and then. 
I’ve heard funnier cuts than this in the same 
style done by the Flying Lizards, and I don’t 
even like them. So there.
“Girls Just Wanna Have Lunch” is another 
well done parody, though Al’s voice hits the 
ol’ cellar in terms of listenability again. Some 
really disgusting sounds of people eating 
lunch give this number the weirdness we all 
expect, along with Al’s apparent fascination 
with food. A good song, and quite funny.
band Dare to be Stupid
By ERIK HARE
Tartan Staffwriter
Would you believe that “Weird” A1 
Yankovic was valedictorian of his high school 
class? This is in fact the same “Weird Al” 
whose new album, Dare to be Stupid, has 
little trouble living up its name. Some real­
ly stupid tracks here. But don’t get me 
wrong: it’s just as hilarious as his other stupid 
stuff, only now he’s admitting something.
Judging by the album, his tour with “The 
Stupid Band” (which comes to the Graffiti 
this Wednesday) should prove to be quite 
outrageous. This album contains not only 
the good-natured parodies of pop muzak for 
which he is famous but also a whole mess 
of originals —of the 11 cuts on the album, 
only four are parodies, while five are 
originals, rounded out by an old favorite of 
the cartoon set and the obligitory “Hooked 
on Polkas.” Al seems to really be into new 
creations these days, since this trend is pro­
gressing from his last album, Weird Al in 
3-D: and judging by the contents of these 
songs, Al’s creative genius for pure silliness 
is unparalleled.
The first song on the album is the now- 
famous “Like a Surgeon.” This song, while 
incredibly funny the first time through, got 
quickly on my nerves because the 
background thumping, true to the original, 
is just so booorrrring. With pop music like 
this being in fashion, the Weird One’s move 
to original music makes a lot of sense. “Like 
a Surgeon” is just as stupid as the original, 
but much, much sillier.
“Dare to be Stupid,” the second song, is 
more than a bit new wave for my tastes, 
although my tastes are too ecclectic to put 
in print. Al sounds like he’s smoked a whole 
lid the way he shouts out the lyrics to this 
original and weird cut.
Without much doubt, the stupidest (and 
thereby the funniest) song on the album is 
the third, “I Wanna New Duck.” A lot of 
tired cliches turned into duck jokes makes 
for a song that left me gasping for breath 
and turning blue, since laughing and 
breathing tend to be mutually exclusive. The 
wonderful lyrics are accented by the 
perpetual sounds of (sort of) grown men 
quacking out-of-key melodies. Truly eccen­
tric, but great.
If “Like a Surgeon” doesn’t prove that 
Weird Al has the worst voice ever, the 
fourth song, “One More Minute” definitely 
does. Al wrote this slow ballad as perhaps 
the perfect way to tell someone to go away: 
“I’d rather spend eternity eating shards of 
broken glass/Than spend one more minute

---------------------------------------------------

September 24,1985—The Tartan—Page 11
newmusic newmusic newmusic newmusic
THIS BUD'S
INA MNEO
By DR. CALIGARI
Special to The Tartan
The 1980s music scene has largely been 
composed of revivals of past movements — 
rockabilly, mod, and now psychedelic to 
name a few. On the forefront of music to­
day is the upcoming revival of glam. Glam 
was a movement in the early 1970s and in­
cluded such artists as David Bowie, T. Rex, 
and Roxy Music. As in all revivals, the 
original music is gaining in popularity and 
new bands are recreating the feeling while 
adding new, updated touches. A case in 
point is the emergence of The Glam Slam 
as one of THE clubs to go to in Los Angeles. 
It plays all glam music and the crowd dresses 
in an updated glam style. As for new glam 
bands, one of the best is the Jacobites. Their 
album Robespierre’s Velvet Basement sounds 
a lot like very early Bowie and also T. Rex.
It conjures up a lot of atmosphere — not 
atmosphere in the Tangerine Dream sense,
but atmosphere in the recreation of an era. 
The singer sounds a lot like Bob Dylan and 
the music is electrified folk with a rock edge. 
It is very much in the tradition of Bowies 
Hunky Dory album. Big Store is one of the 
more electrified songs on the album and is 
very similar in feel to T. Rex. Fortune Of 
Fame includes a harmonica (pretty novel 
among all the synthesizers being used today). 
Most of the album is composed of slower 
songs and two that stand out are “Where the 
Rivers End” and “Ambulance Station.” All in 
all it’s a really good album — different from 
most of the music coming out now and very 
tied to the early glam tradition.
New singles:“Worse Than You” b/w “Like 
a Soldier” from Life After Death. “Worse 
Than You” is a mild garage snarl over swirl­
ing music replete with the now-uncommon 
handclaps and tambourine. “Like a Soldier” 
has catchy hooks and is very much Southern
psychedelic.
“Wild as Soul” b/w “Such a Mystery” from 
Hysteric Narcotics. These are true hipsters. 
As they say right on the groovy op-art pic­
ture sleeve: “recorded in Hysterasound.”
“Wild as Soul” has a real 60 s feel to it while 
“Such a Mystery” combines a cool organ and 
one of the most memorable opening lines 
(“She’s got spyglasses / glued to her 
eyelashes”) to come up with a bouncy sound.
Weird Al: Dare to be Stupid
Forbes Gallery: Architecture
continued from page 9
and learn trades. To do this, the school 
followed Steiner’s philosophy that the entire 
body and all the senses should be used as a 
learning tool, and so instituted a curriculum 
of eurythimics. The children were taught to 
see things as a whole, not just as outer ap­
pearances.
The project which is on display this week 
is in two phases. In the first phase, the ar­
chitects used a subtractive process: 
theoretically given an enormous lump of 
sandstone, they were told to subtract the liv­
ing spaces from the piece of sandstone as a 
whole. To illustrate their work they were on­
ly allowed to use 8V£ X 11 pieces of paper, 
which they taped together. The space of the 
school is depicted in charcoal “air drawings,” 
where the deeper the areas got, the darker 
the charcoal that was used to shade them. 
In the second phase, the architects were on­
ly allowed to use prismacolor pencils on 
brown paper, and the only materials they 
were allowed to use in the design were wood 
and brick.
The Forbes Gallery is open Wednesday 
through Friday, 11 a.m.-6p.m., and Satur­
day and Sunday, 12 p.m.-5 p.m.
continued from page 10
For the movie Johnny Dangerously, 
Weird Al got to do his first sountrack cut. 
“This is the Life” is a cute piece, but not that 
remarkably funny or strange. From a rather 
bad flick comes this basically average song.
For the upwardly mobile among us, the 
original song “Cable TV” has a nice pop feel 
that fits in well with this message. 
Guaranteed as a hit song among the 
bourgeois people who think of “fun” as com­
paring VCR’s in major shopping malls, this 
song is an (almost) true-to-life picture of the 
meaning of cable: “I got the Siamese Faith 
Healer’s Network / The news and weather 
from Peru / I got celebrity hockey / The ra- 
quetball channel too.” I got... I got. Al is 
making a point, and I like it.
All of this is backed up by the fine accor- 
dian work in the obligatory “Hooked on
Polkas.” With Top-40 stuff like Duran- 
Duran, Yes, and Nena’s “Neun und Neun- 
zig Luftballoonen” (Ja, es ist auf Deutsch) 
being put into polka form...well...you know. 
It’s stupid. But as Al said, “I want to be there 
when the accordian takes over the rock world 
and becomes the no. 1 rock instrument. I’m 
telling you, in a few years, the electric guitar 
will be obsolete. Luckily, I’m on the forefront 
of the accordian rock movement.” OK Al: 
we understand.
“Weird Al” Yankovic and his Stupid Band 
will appear this Wednesday, September 25, 
at the Graffiti, 4615 Baum Blvd. Special 
guest—Dr. Demento. Shows are at 7:00p.m. 
(all ages) and at 10:00 p. m. (over 21.) Tickets 
are $10.50 in advance at Kaufman's, Head’s 
Together, and Grafitti (682-4210) and $12.50 
at the door.
PICKUP
APARTY
The main bulk of the exhibition consists 
of the renderings from the last three weeks 
of the studio. They were allowed to use lead 
pencils, which are usually used for architec­
tural drafting. With colored pencils they us­
ed light, shadow, and contrasting colors to 
create very intricate designs for the Waldorf 
School.
Haircuts *14 to *16
T Mon.-Frl. 9 to 9Lewis Sat. 9 to 5
813 S. Aiken Avenue • Shadyside 
682-4063
BUOWEISER**KING OF BEERS«*ANHEUSERBUSCH INC «ST LOUIS

---------------------------------------------------

STTJDEIl
"GRIPE 1
STUDENT SENATE OFFICE
TAMAL MUKHERJEE ^ MICHAEL BETT
C-18 Mudge House 5545 Howe St.
Phone: x4552 Phone: 621-7585
CIT Student Senate Chairman
Office Hours: Office Hours:
Thu. 4:30-5:30 Tue. 6:00-7:00
iv.
PETITIONS F 
CFA,CIT,H&< 
Available at Ski 
D< 
Due 0
|OE MURPHY
Donner-A-5 
Phone: x4109 
CIT
Office Hours: 
Tue. 2:30-3:30
NADINE FLYNN
P.O. Box 148 CMU 
Phone: 687-4269 
CFA
Office Hours:
Wed. 1:30-2:30
SEANA CHUN
130 Marg. Morrison Apts.
Phone: x5939
H&SS
Office Hours:
Fri. 1:30-2:30
JEAN E. NOVAK
6329 Walnut Apt. 2 
Phone: 661-0528 
SUPA
CINDY TAYLOR
7-C-10 Morewood Gardens
Phone: x3975
MCS
Student Senate.
Working together, 
we get things done,
SENATORS NOT 
PICTURED ARE:
MARK KISSNER
5030 Centre Ave. Apt. L52
Phone: 681-0189
CFA
Office Hours:
Tue. 1:00-2:00
LEANNE CHU
302 Shady Oak Apts. 
Phone: x8965 
SDC
HILARY DEBROFF
5-C-6 Morewood Gardens 
Phone: x4891 
IM
Office Hours:
Tue. 4:30-5:30

---------------------------------------------------

SEMATE
USTERS
n
ROOM 59 SKIBO
KAREN LEE
C-306 Mudge 
Phone: x4594
Student Government President 
Office Hours: M,W 6:00-7:00 
Fri. 12:30-1:30
PETE COHEN
128 S. Dallas Ave 
Phone: 441-9826 
H&SS
Office Hours: 
Wed. 11:00-12:00
OR SEATS IN 
5S,GSIA,MCS 
ibo Information
Bsk
>ct. 8th
FRED DELEON
Pi Kappa Alpha 
Phone: x6614 
IFC Representative 
Office Hours:
Tue. 2:00-3:00
CHRISSY HYNES
103 Welch Hall 
Phone: x4207 
CFA
Office Hours:
Tue. 11:00-12:00
LISA SALLEY
7 Roselawn Terrace 
Phone: x4387 
Treasurer
STEVE WELLER
A-309 Mudge 
Phone: x4463 
Parliamentarian
ERIC ROCHER
E-323 Morewood Gardens
Phone: x4795
MCS
Office Hours:
Thu. 5:30-6:30
DAVE SALOMON
1612 Shady Ave. 
Phone: 421-8559 
MCS
Office Hours: 
Wed. 4:30-5:30
ANDY LEE
1612 Shady Ave. 
Phone: 421-8559 
MCS
Office Hours: 
Wed. 12:00-1:00
BRETT WHYSEL
B-4 Mudge 
Phone: x4474 
H&SS
Office Hours: 
Tue. 10:30-11:30
PETE LONSKY
6235 5th Avenue B-17 
Phone: 441-4973 
H&SS
CHERIE JAGERSKI
Delta Delta Delta House
Phone: x5958
CIT
Office Hours:
Mon. 1:30-2:30
STUDENT SENATE MEETINGS
Every Tuesday- 7:00 P.M. 
Wherrett Room, Ski bo 
Everyone is Welcome

---------------------------------------------------

What Does It Mean 
To Be All You Can Be?
William James, the father of 
American psychology, said, “Most 
people live,....in a very restricted circle 
of their potential...They make use of a 
very small portion of their possible 
consciousness...”
To “Be all you can be” is to de­
mand more of yourself, to push 
yourself to do things you thought you 
could never do. By accomplishing them 
you become all you can be.
Army ROTC can add a unique 
dimension to your college education 
and contribute to your future success. 
You’ll participate in the practical ap­
plication of management techniques 
learned in the classroom. This practical 
application instills the maturity and 
self-confidence so important to ad­
vancement in the business world. It’s 
known as the “Margin of Difference” 
and there is a brochure to describe it. It 
quotes Fortune 500 corporate leaders 
and tells how much they value Army 
ROTC experience. Get your FREE 
copy of “The Margin of Difference” 
from Army ROTC on your campus.
Margaret Morrison 
Carnegie Hall 
B-7 or call 
578-2205/2196
ARMY ROTC 
Be All You Can Be
ALOTOF CAPTAINS OF INDUSTRY STARTED OUT AS SECOND LIEUTENANTS.
How can you get the experience 
you need to succeed in business’
These top executives started out 
as Army officers. Right out of college, 
thev were given the kind ot responsi­
bility most people in civilian life work 
years tor.
It you begin your future as an 
Army officer, you could further your ca­
reer plans.
How do you become an Army 
officer7 A great way to get the training 
you need is in Army ROTC.
ROTC is a college program that
will teach you leadership and manage­
ment skills, and train you to handle real 
challenges.
If you want to prepare for a 
promising future in business, begin 
your future as an Army officer, with 
Army ROTC. You too might wind up a 
captain of industry!
For more information, contact 
the Professor of Military Science on your 
campus.
ARMY ROTC. 
BEALLYOUCANBE.
M I # **.
Rawleigh Warner, Jr., Chairman, Mobil CorpWalter F. Williams, President & Chief Operating Officer Bethlehem Steel Corp.
Earl G. Graves, Editor &. Publisher Black Enterprise MagazineJohn G. Breen, Chairman, President & CEO Sherwin-Williams Company
See Captain Perry Colvin in B7 of 
Margaret Morrision Hall
10 CUT URGE PIZZA 
& 2 LITER PEPSI
;11 z a . _
RSCUTYPHGVD19
3415 Tutti*
^ 681-2202 or 681-2203

---------------------------------------------------

Sports.
By BOB KOCA
Tartan Staffwriter
The CMU cross-country team par­
ticipated in the Indiana University Invita­
tional this past Saturday. A total of 25 teams 
participated and CMU, led by Pat Noll and 
Marc Sulecki, was the top finisher of the five 
Division III teams. However the larger divi­
sion I schools proved to be out of our 
league.
Commenting on the match, Coach Gary 
Meckley mentioned that the running con­
ditions were less than ideal. It was very hot 
which made running the hilly course even 
more grueling. He also mentioned that the
field was tremendous and included a cou­
ple of olympians.
He said that an occasional invitational of 
this kind is good for bringing the team, 
which has had outstanding success against 
other Division III schools, down to earth. He 
also said that there aren’t many invitationals 
which present the level of competition which 
would be best for the team. The smaller in­
vitationals often only involve Division III 
schools and don’t present enough compete 
tion. In the larger invitationals, we get 
outclassed by the Division I schools which 
can attract runners with full scholarships.
THIS WEEK S EVENTS
[Tuesday: Soccer-CMU at Cal. St., Volleyball-Bethany and St. Fran, at CMU. 
Wednesday: Field Hockey—Bethany at CMU. Tennis—Bethany at CMU. Friday: 
Volleyball—CMU at Thiel. Saturday: Football—Hiram at CMU. Soccer—CMU at Hiram, 
Cross-Country—CMU at GCC (men and women), Field Hockey—CMU at Hiram, 
Tennis—CMU at Hiram. ----------------------——------------------------------------------
Vic Boland carries for 95 yards.
Tartans make it 3-0 with decisive victory over JCU
Quarterback Mike Hensel pushes towards the goal linephoto by Erik Horn
X-country challenged 
in LU. Invitational
By CHRISTOPHER D. LEWIS
Tartan Editor-in-Chief
The CMU Tartans continued their 
undefeated season by dominating the John 
Carroll University Blue Streaks, 35-0, this 
past Saturday in Cleveland.
Fighting a possible letdown after last 
week’s upset of Bucknell, CMU executed 
their offense and defense in a “businesslike” 
fashion. The offensive line blew open big 
holes for hard-running Vic Boland (95 yards 
on 15 carries) and Mike Minjock (57 yards 
on 10 carries).
The Blue Streaks lost leading rusher Brad 
Cantwell to graduation from last year, and 
their offense has not recovered. Freshman 
quarterback, Don Stupica, could not get 
their offense moving, and the runners gain­
ed just 42 yards, compared to CMU’s 273 
yards. Their program, which looked strong 
last year, has problems now.
Against some of the lesser teams, it’s hard 
to get emotionally fired up. But just like [in 
1983], we went out and worked hard and 
won the game,” said strong safety and co- 
captain Brad Sherwin.
The Tartans got on the scoreboard early 
in the first quarter. After a seven yard punt 
return by Joe Orlowski to midfield, CMU 
moved 50 yards in 11 plays. Junior quarter­
back Mike Hensel (seven completions in nine 
attempts for 86 yards, one touchdown, and 
one interception) threw a 17 yard pass to 
sophomore halfback Darin Ball on a key 
third-and-nine situation from the John Car­
roll 49, and later hit Minjock for a one-yard 
touchdown pass on fourth down. Sophomore 
kicker, Mike Nazzdro missed the extra point, 
due to a bad snap, but the Tartans were 
ahead to stay, 6-0.
The Blue Streaks fell victim to many miss­
ed tackles and the powerful CMU running 
game. Tech had 273 yards rushing, giving 
them 796 yards total rushing in their three 
games. A 21-yard run by Boland typified the 
entire game. Boland broke a tackle at the 
line, was hit by three secondary men whom 
he dragged ten yards before being tackled.
After a one-yard TD run by Hensel to put 
CMU ahead 14-0, reserve quarterback, Joe 
Mollica went to work late in the second 
quarter. Hensel had to leave the game with 
a slightly injured ankle. The Tartans drove 
89 yards on 12 plays, culminating in a 
26-yard pass from Mollica to Richards, the 
play of Mollica, who had 82 total offensive 
yards, and Nick Klipa (four of five for 48 
yards) proved the tremendous depth CMU
has at the QB position, as well as experience. Darin Ball (6) finds a hole between guards David Merrigan (67) and Ed Gallagher (76). 
Hensel is a junior, while Klipa and Mollica
are both seniors.
There were a couple of bright spots for 
JCU. Linebacker Joe Burrello tied a school 
record with 22 tackles, and Stupica com­
pleted 14 out of 23 passes in his first start. 
The Streaks only threatened twice, but were 
thwarted early by an interception by Joe 
Orlowski on the three yard line and stopped 
late by three pass deflections by Dan 
Preston. Andy James also had an intercep­
tion for CMU.
Tartan Tattlers--The Tartans take on the 
Hiram Terriers Saturday at Tech Field. 
Game time is at 1:30 p.m., and the game 
will be covered on WRCT 
(88.3)...sophomore Billy Cramer returned 
a kickoff 69 yards to set up CMU’s fourth 
touchdown...Billy Heiser caught his first two 
passes of his career after switching to split 
end from defensive back.
L ______t «.photo by Olvc PefrsenCoach Gary Meckley, sophomore Paul Carnine, and Freshman sensation Pat Noll 
discuss the race.

---------------------------------------------------

Page 16—The Tartan—September 24,1985
Women's Volleyball on three match winning streak
¦Hi dH « ^ W UHADDAD A LDricr miT! - 1__. . 1 ¦ 3•poBy BARBARA FREESE
Tartan Staffwriter
The Carnegie-Mellon Women’s Volleyball 
team saw action on Tuesday and Thursday 
of last week. The Tuesday match was against 
Indiana University of PA. The scores of the 
individual games were as follows:
CMU
15
11
15
2
15
IUP
6
15
9
15
11
photo by Andy Gillespie
Tartans return the ball en route to a decisive 3-2 match victory.
The final match result was 3-2 CMU. 
Coach Jane Fisk commented that she was 
rather worried about this match in par­
ticular because Indiana U. is a Division II 
school with twice as many students to choose 
from as Camegie-Mellon. After all the worry 
the team played very well. The outside hit­
ter positions were played well by Chris Cole­
man and Monica Zalvsky. Marianne Smith 
lived up to the confidence placed in her by 
being team captain, by doing an excellent 
job setting, blocking, and hitting. The ear­
ly blocking by Marianne and Karen Kmetz 
put a damper on the IUP game and the 
coach believes that this is what enabled
ene onit
5512 Walnut St. Shadyside 
M-S 10-5:30 W 'til 9Century III Mall Lower Level 
M-S 9:30-9:30 Sun 12-5
1 Oxford Centre Level 2 M-S 10-5:30 M & Th 'til 9
KOL NIDRE InfoDesk.
YOM KIPPUR SERVICES
September 24
7 *3 Op/??in the WgL/AM PITT UNION on Pitt campus
REFORM 645,, in the Dr. EUGoldsteinLounge
B'NAI B'RITH HILLEI - JEWISH UNIVERSITY CENTER 315 South Bellefield AvenueSeptember 25
930in the WILLIAM PITT UNION on Pitt campus 
REFORM Xl:00d/7? in the WHERRET ROOM
SKI BO HALL - C.MU. CAMPUSFor info on Erev YomKippur dinner&Break theFast ; 621-8875
YOM KIPPUR COMMLfMTY!am
CMU to beat this Division II team. Senior 
Sue Jordan did a good job in the position 
of off-setter. Debby St. Pierre and Dianne 
Watson were doing a good job sharing the 
mid-blocker position. Unfortunately the 
Junior Varsity team lost 2-0 to the women 
of IUP. Coach Fisk says, however, that they 
are learning in practice and will develop into 
varsity level players before the season ends.
On Thursday the Tartan women once 
again were victorious on the volleyball court. 
They won a dual victory against California 
University of Pennsylvania and also Robert 
Morris College. In the match against CUP 
the game scores were:
CMU CUP
15 7
15 12
The final match result was 2-0 CMU.
The match against Robert Morris was 
almost identical. The game scores being 
CMU RMC
15 7
15 3
Again, the final was 2-0 CMU.
The team, again, played well with attack 
based on hard hits. Captain Marianne Smith 
again showed her ability by doing a great 
job of setting and at times surprising the op­
ponents by hitting instead of setting.
Coach Fisk commented that the team is 
improving with every match. She believes the 
real test will come when the lady Tartans 
play their first Conference match.
/M Report
The last chance to sign up for Intramural 
Co-recreational Volleyball is Wednesday 
September 25 by 4:30 p.m. There are 6 
women and 6 men per team. Enter gym 
room 101.
The E.J. Birdy Open Golf Tournament 
will be played Sunday, September 29 at 1 
p.m. at Schenley Park. Post entrants are 
welcome.
There is a cross-country meet on October 
3 at 4:30 p.m. Course is 1.9 miles. Post en­
trants contact Paul Pecora at 681-0251.
A water polo team is being organized. En­
try is due September 25. Each team must 
supply a Certified Life Guard for practices 
and matches. Check IM Bulletin Board for 
practice time.
HEWLETT
PACKARD
LIST
PRICE
75 00 
120 00
MODEL CALCULATORS 
HP-11C Slim-Line Scientific
HP-1ZC Advanced Financial
NP-15C Advanced Scientific 12C00
HP-16C Digital Programmer 120 00
HP-41CV Handheld Computer 225 00
HP-41CX Handheld Computer 325 00 245.00
HP-71 B Handheld Computer 525 00 395.00
All calculators in stock for same 
day delivery. Call for prices on 
products not listed.
OUR
PRICE
59.95
89.95
89.95
89.95 
165.00
in
COMPUTER
PRODUCTS'
DIVISION OF GRAPHIC ARTS SUPPLY
699 Seneca St.
Buffalo, NY 14210
Call: (716) 85'-0004

---------------------------------------------------

September 24,1985—The Tartan—Page 17
... to information from 
the Federal government is 
available to you at more 
than 1,380 Depository Li­
braries across die country. 
You can visit any of these 
libraries and use the De­
pository collection free of 
charge. To find the Federal 
Depository in your area, 
contact your local library 
or write to the Federal 
Depository Library 
Program, Office of the 
Public Printer. Washington. 
DC 20401.
Federal Depository 
library Program
photo by Cindy Yee 
Tartan Soccer team in action against a strong John
photo by Cindy YeeCarroll team. Game ended in a 4-2 CMU victory.
A Close Look at Intramural Sports
3401 Boulevard of the Allies Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania 15213 
(412) 683-6100 (800) 245-4444
* Weekend rate available noon 
Thursday through Monday. Cer tain daily minimums apply. Rates will be slightly lower for drivers over 25.
Th ehmoryh uk n myw abth oDbw iDh’ysaho iDh’ho oh
Non-discountable rate applies to this or similar - size car and is sub/ect to change without notice Specific cars sub feci to availability Call for details
National Car Rental
Duquesne deserves National attention.®
Available at
434 Boulevard of the Allies 261-5500 
4621 Forbes Avenue (Oakland) 682-1444 
3950 Wm. Perin Highway (Monroeville) 372-1667
fay John Friedmann
“Come in, I can help!" says the sign on 
the door. And its true. E.J. Birdy, the man 
behind the sign, helped 2915 students par­
ticipate in intramural sports last year.
2915 individual students. 5012 total entries.
If Mr. Birdy hadn’t offered 
t documentation, I wouldn’t have/(V'believed him. Who would thinkGwthat so many people could join 
together to participate in a single activity in 
a school as segmented as CMU?
It’s not really a single activity, though. 
The department’s 1985-6 schedule lists 36 
different sports, 15 in the fall and 21 in the 
spring. They run the gamut from touch foot­
ball to darts, and include such diverse of­
ferings as chess (pencil neck geeks take note) 
and water polo.
Even E.J. Birdy seems a little impressed. 
“When I go to the intramural convention, 
people at other schools go bananas when 
they see our numbers. We might have the 
best Division III IM program in the country.”
Why do people participate in IM sports? 
After all, isn’t CMU made up mostly of 
pencil-necked geeks and flaky dramats? One
HOWARDJOHNSON
Lodge
119 Newly Remodeled 
Rooms
major reason is the fraternities. All eleven 
campus greek organizations have at least one 
team participating in touch football. But the 
fraternities account for only 15 percent of 
the students on campus. Why do the rest 
play?
Birdy offers several answers. First, most of 
the students live on campus, giving the IM 
department a large pool of elegible bodies 
looking for entertainment. Intramurals can 
also serve an outlet for frustration, or a sim­
ple study break. “Each of the intramural 
events is structured to last about an hour, 
so a student can be back to the dorm in less 
than an hour and a half,” explains Birdy.
The social aspect as a reason for par­
ticipation isn’t neglected, either. While an 
indoor soccer match doesn’t exactly function 
as an athletic singles bar, it does provide a 
chance to meet people you wouldn’t or­
dinarily come into contact with. Social
animals note, however: 165 of the S53 Co- 
rec volleyball players are female.
In fact, females now have their own IM 
director, Gerri Siedl, who is also the women’s 
basketball coach. Ladies, however, are 
welcome to participate in any and all men’s 
activities. But now look for more female only 
events and a greater push to get women 
involved.
All indications point toward the fact that 
the IM program is growing and will continue 
to grow at least as rapidly. This expansion 
places the sole cloud on the IM horizon: the 
need for more facilities. The IM teams must 
share their fields, which varsity teams often 
use for practice grounds. But where to put 
a new field? If you have a solution, call x2214 
and ask for E.J. He’ll be glad you called.
John Friedmann is a sophomore majoring 
in industrial management and is Business 
Manager o/The Tartan.
STUDENTS
RATE
You're #1 with National. 
You can rent a car if you're 
18 or older, have a valid 
driver's license, current stu­
dent I.D. and a cash deposit. 
Stop by to fill out a short 
casn qualification form at
NO MILEAGE CHARGE
least 24-hours in advance. 
You pay for gas used and 
return car to renting loca­
tion. We also accept most lit 
major credit cards.

---------------------------------------------------

Editorial.««?i
Student voice 
must be loud 
to be heard
In recent weeks The Tartan has printed 
editorials focusing on a lack of communication 
on the part of the administration when dealing 
with the student body. We have stated that on 
many issues, the administration has acted without 
consulting the students. However, the blame 
should not be placed solely on the administra­
tion. With a population of approximately six 
thousand people, the student body has shown lit­
tle effort in letting the administration know how 
it feels.
Let’s face it, when we as students arrive at 
Carnegie-Mellon we expect someone to pander 
to our needs, while we don’t often think about 
the particulars of solving problems. Because we 
pay a lot of money to attend school we expect 
many things, and if our expectations are not met, 
we complain. We complain to each other, we 
complain to our friends. But we rarely complain 
to the right people.
The student body, as a whole, doesn’t take any 
initiative in dealing with issues they should care 
about. Do you care? In this issue of The Tartan 
there is not one letter to the editor, and only one 
student-produced opinion in the entire 
newspaper. How can we expect the administra­
tion to hear our voice if we have nothing to say?
There are exceptions,such as Student Govern­
ment President Karen Lee. Lee is working with 
each administrator to set up office hours when 
he/she would be available to talk with students. 
But if the administrators were to set up hours, 
and no one goes to talk to them, Karen Lee’s ef­
fort will be fruitless.
Student Senate is another exception. Chairman 
Micheál Bett and his fellow senators have had an 
excellent success ratio in solving problems 
brought before the senate, yet one always hears 
people say that Student Senate never gets 
anything done. How can Senate solve a problem 
that isn’t brought before it.
The administration has recently attempted to 
improve lines of communication. When students 
have had questions, they get explanations, if not 
answers. Fred Rogers answered questions about 
the proposed hotel at last week’s senate meeting. 
Senior Vice President John P. Crecine has, for this 
issue, written an extensive viewpoint on many 
topics. In recent weeks, when asked about many 
things, the administration has been answering.
Ladies and gentlemen, now it is your turn. 
Speak out on what is bothering you. Speak out 
on issues you think are important. Read Dr. 
Crecine s column, and tell us what you think. Tell 
Dr. Crecine what you think. Tell Dr. Cyert, tell 
Student Senate, tell someone your opinion. You 
may be surprised at the result.
A body with six thousand voices should not be 
silent. It should scream.
Hoff writes letter to Cyert
.cr
by Michael Hoff
Dear President Cyert,
This is my fourth year here. It 
seems like yesterday I moved into 
my freshman dorm. And it seems 
like it was a totally different school 
back then.
Somewhere along 
the line, something 
went wrong. You 
decided to give CMU a jump on 
the future- P.C.’s, IBM- that’s old 
news. But you cheated a lot of 
students in doing so. While comp- 
sci students received more than 
enough printing and computing 
time, the H&SS (especially 
English) people had their ac­
counts taken away. We lost our 
computer access so people could 
play Dragon Slayer. The P.C.’s 
came to the rescue a year later, 
but while comp-sci people have 
access to free and ample materials 
we were struck with a five dollar 
English class handout fee. I guess 
our tuition hikes weren’t enough 
to cover that.
You thought the IBM deal was 
the best for the school. I believe 
it was. I really do— handled poor­
ly, but still a good move. But be­
ing good wasn’t enough. We had 
to look good at all costs. You 
jumped on the get-tough-with- 
fraternities band wagon. When 
one frat bacame a blemish in the 
public’s eye, they all paid. Rush 
was shortened, the alcohol policy 
became more strict and now their 
parties are being raided to ap­
pease local residents. That makes 
you look good to them. What 
about the Greeks? They would 
have had to cover the cost of the 
vacant house had the freshmen 
not been moved in. They wouldn’t 
have had any choice, either—you 
own “their” houses. But, they were 
spared. You actually made 
freshmen move into that house. It 
was nearly ruined over the sum­
mer and is still in poor shape. I 
know—we needed housing. So 
why not use Morewood lot for 
some sort of student housing? 
Which do we need more — a dorm 
or a hotel? I guess it came down 
to a choice— make the students 
happy or make Oakland, Pitt, or 
local hospitals happy. Guess who 
lost.
I can’t argue about what the 
DOD will do at SEI because I
don’t know enough. Do you? All 
I know is that we’ll have an arm­
ed forces higher-up on the board. 
How much thought will he give to 
the students?
I tried to meet with you once. 
The reason is not important. I 
couldn’t get past your secretary." 
She referred me to Dean Braden 
Walters. Why couldn’t I see you? 
I was just a student from a group 
you had no time for.
Impersonal. That is what CMU 
has become—a small school too 
busy to notice the people here. 
But to an outside observer, we 
look good. Damned good. So do 
you.
I could go on, but I’ll keep thig 
short—partially because I’m sure 
you’re busy, and partially because
I know that nothing I say will 
change anything at all. I won’t ap­
pear on T.V., I don’t represent a 
corporation. I won’t help profess 
the technical, industrial, and 
regional advances your school is 
making.
No. I’m just a student.
Michael Hoff is a senior major­
ing in professional and creative 
writing.
Why a Student Senator?
By Michael Bett 
Sometimes I really wonder why 
I am a Student Senator.
Students at CMU hold the view 
that the faculty and administra­
tion are going to do what they 
want to do when they
want to do it. So in­
stead of complaining 
and getting something 
done about the problem, students 
grin and bear it.
The funny thing is that the 
faculty and administration really 
do care.
Once the administration 
realizes that they have done or are
about to do something that will 
inconvenience the students, they 
do their best to correct the situa­
tion. First they must be contacted. 
Contrary to popular belief, nine 
out of ten administrators are not 
telepathic.
This brings me back to my 
original question. Why am I a 
Student Senator? Student Senators 
are a strange breed. We care 
enough at CMU to bring about 
change; and we know how to do 
it. Yet students seldom bother to 
complain, so many problems are 
not brought to Senate’s attention. 
By giving us your favorite gripes,
we can work to solve them.
Just in the past two weeks, Stu­
dent Sentate requested that Clyde 
Street residents, be given priority 
on the parking list and that the 
Hunt library study rooms be 
reopened. Both requests were 
granted. Making the administra­
tion aware of these problems 
made them disappear.
What does it all mean? Does 
our Student Senate really have the 
ability to solve our problems and 
improve campus life? Actually, we 
don’t. That is, not unless you want 
us to. Like it or not, we’re your 
continued on page 20

---------------------------------------------------

r» ’/* f* ///// 
September 24,1985—The Tartan—Page 19
Administrative view
responds to criticism of prioritiesSenior VP
By John P. Crecine
The first two issues of the Tartan this year 
contain many references to and criticisms of 
the University’s priorities in capital expen­
ditures. These criticisms are also reflected 
in my own conversations with students and,
often, with faculty. Most recently
•v6^ the focus of the criticism has VC*09 been the construction of the
Software Engineering Institute 
Building, plans for a university conference 
center, and parking problems exacerbated 
by both. Construction delays for Scotland 
Yard, the new, student-run pub in Skibo and 
a plan to shift student study space from one 
part of the Hunt Library to another, add to 
the stack of complaints.
Many of the specific criticisms reflect 
misinformation concerning a project or a 
misunderstanding of whose resources are be­
ing allocated to particualr projects, and the 
constraints on particular resources. There is 
an underlying theme in many of the 
criticisms that is essentially accurate and 
where criticism of the University and the 
priorities revealed through its actions may 
have justification.
Before turning to what I see as the essen­
tial underlying issue —how resources are 
allocated at Carnegie-Mellon, reflecting 
what priorities, and to whose benefit?—let 
me be defensive, as befits an administrator 
and faculty member when talking to 
students. Why are people so paranoid? A re­
cent version of the campus Master Plan 
shows a “student housing complex” across 
from the “Cut” on the other side of Forbes, 
roughly where ATO and SAE fraternities are 
located. This is cited as the central ad­
ministration’s desire to get rid of fraternities, 
or at minimum, our failure to appreciate 
fraternities’ contributions to campus life. 
The same master plan showed Forbes 
Avenue and Frew Street as vacated by the 
City, the Naval Reserve Building on Forbes 
“gone,” and a host of new buildings —a 
university center complex, several new 
research buildings, fountains, plazas, etc. 
Did the mayor of Pittsburgh or the Chief of 
Naval Operations sit-in in Warner Hall? 
Can’t students take a joke? The fact of the 
matter is that we would like to see, thirty 
years from now, a campus not split by a ma­
jor thoroughfare (Forbes) and we do see 
limits to the useful life of several of the 
buildings in which fraternities are housed. 
A Master Plan, if useful, provides a com­
prehensive framework for thinking about in­
dividual projects, so that cumulative effects 
of a series of separate construction or renova­
tion projects add up to a coherent whole. To 
be comprehensive, one needs a 30-50 year 
view, not a five to ten year view. The reader 
can provide his or her own list of Camegie- 
Mellon buildings that should have been con­
ceived in a broader context.
Again being defensive, the SEI and the 
conference center have been cited by some 
as evidence of the University’s insatiable ap­
petite for prominence and prestige and 
image —if you allow me the choice of the 
“image” to be projected, I gladly plead guilty 
to having such an appetite for the Universi­
ty. One editorial and a few letters suggest 
that the conference center and SEI were im­
portant fulfillments of President Cyert’s ego 
needs. I can assure you that there are a lot 
of easier ways to satisfy egos, even those as 
modestly-sized as Dick Cyert’s, than putting 
up buildings. To administrators with ex­
perience, buildings are headaches, not ego 
trips! In fact the University is becoming more 
prominent, more involved in the world out­
side of Schenley Park and Pittsburgh, and 
decidedly less parochial. From a strictly 
selfish point of view, the University is the 
more interesting for it.
A slightly more subtle defensive posture 
that the administration could take is to point 
out that the recent capital projects that 
students are most aware of were due either 
to unique opportunities (the University 
Computer Center Building and the IBM 
project), or were paid for by someone else — 
the SEI building and the conference center 
are built with non-University resources (DoD 
and private investors), at no risk to the 
University, and will provide net returns to us.
The response to all of these comments is 
likely to be something like “we agree with 
all of that, but where do students fit in? 
What is the University doing for students?” 
The defense would respond with a list of 
large and small items —from Morewood 
Gardens renovations several years ago to a 
doubling of the classroom renovation fund, 
a $150,000 contribution to the student pub, 
renovation of major art and design studio
space in the College of Fine Arts, etc.
There is a deeper underlying issue and 
criticism. Let me try to phrase it. Carnegie- 
Mellon has developed great research and 
academic programs. The excellence of these 
programs are why we (faculty as well as 
students) are here. But, the University never 
seems to want to do anything for students 
that affects life outside of the classroom (or 
for faculty unless it is directly related to 
sponsored research). Whenever there is a 
hard choice or a trade off to be made, it 
always seems to be made in support of 
research activities and “excellence” in areas 
of little direct benefit to students. Take, for 
example, the University Computer Center 
building, the Software Engineering Institute, 
and the Conference Center. Even if these 
projects don’t always use University 
resources, they do require a great amount 
of administrative and faculty attention to 
bring off. In the UCCB, SEI, and Con­
ference Center, the University has shown that 
it can act quickly, effectively, and flexibly. 
It can mobilize considerable administrative 
talents and exhibit great entrepeneurial 
competence in the pursuit of research and 
intellectual objectives. Why can’t those 
talents be mobilized to do something equally 
dramatic and beneficial for students? It is 
not that we are opposed to computing, the 
SEI, or the Conference Center, it is simply 
that our needs never seem to get attacked 
with the same intensity as the other, 
legitimate needs of the University.
This general argument is difficult to 
refute, because much of it is true. Why? Is 
it because the University administration and 
faculty don’t really give a damn for students? 
No, of course not. Carnegie-Mellon students 
get one of the finest undergraduate educa­
tions available anywhere at any cost. Near­
ly all faculty are personally committed to ex­
cellence in education and deliver in the 
classroom. This is an institution that cares 
deeply about undergraduate education and 
has made great contributions, locally and 
nationally —from the “Carnegie Plan” that 
included the liberal arts as an integral part 
of a professional education in the 1940’s, to 
the H&SS core curriculum in the 1970’s, to 
the emerging University core and integration 
of computing into education in the 1980’s.
It is not a lack of concern for students on 
the part of the administration and faculty 
that accounts for the fact that student 
facilities have not kept pace with the 
research and academic facilities at Carnegie - 
Mellon. The two most important factors ac­
counting for these problems relate not to the 
priorities and motivations of the central ad­
ministration or faculty, but to the availability 
of monies for capital items and buildings, 
and to the way the internal resource alloca­
tion process works.
To begin with, there is no regular source, 
for any purpose, of capital funds for private 
universities. The sources of capital funds for 
universities like Camegie-Mellon have pretty 
much dried up in the past fifteen years. 
Unlike public institutions, we have no state 
legislature to provide a regular capital 
budget. The Federal government no longer 
provides special interest rate subsidies (so we
can borrow) or direct capital grants to 
private universities. Unlike the 1960’s, most 
corporate and public foundations no longer 
make grants for “brick and mortar” items to 
universities. Corporations and foundations 
make grants to research projects or endow­
ment, but not to universities for buildings. 
To the extent any funds are available for 
buildings, they are tightly tied to specific 
research activities and facilities to support 
them. In response to this, the University has 
begun to transfer significant amounts of its 
operating income to capital (roughly 18% for 
this fiscal year). This is no regular pipeline 
of capital funds from the outside world to 
a private university at all, let alone a pipeline 
into student projects.
The normal resource allocation process 
works, in subtle ways, to fund many of those 
projects that are first on one group’s priori­
ty list and tenth on everyone’s else’s. The pro­
cess makes it difficult to fund any of those 
projects that are second or third on 
everybody’s priority list, but first on no one’s. 
This tendency, coupled with a clear strategic 
focus in the university and the power of the 
component academic departments —E&CE, 
Biology, or Psychology — will be funded 
before university-wide projects that everyone 
is favorably disposed toward, but not as pas­
sionately so as a department head or dean 
concerning his/her pet project. Then there 
is the question of scale — $500K to $2 million 
projects are far easier to swallow than one,
Opinion Policy
The Editorial appearing at the beginning 
of the opinion section is the official opinion 
of The Tartan Editorial Board.
Columns are the opinions of individual 
authors who are not necessarily on The Tar­
tan Editorial Board or Staff.
Letters to the Editor are opinions of in­
dividual authors who are usually members 
of the University community. A letter in­
tended for publication must be signed and 
include the writer’s address and phone 
number for verification. Names will be 
withheld upon request. The Tartan reserves 
the right to condense or reject any letter.
large $5 $20 million project and can be fold­
ed into existing budgets with less disruption. 
While this characterization of the capital 
resource allocation process is not entirely ac­
curate, it does describe some central 
tendencies.
Take this allocation mechanism, dry up 
outside sources of capital, put it in a setting 
where people (faculty and administration) 
are rewarded for innovation and intellectual 
entrepeneurship and hard work, let the 
mechanism run for 20 years, and the results 
will not be too different from what we 
observe around us. . .a refurbished E&CE 
facility, new space for Statistics and 
Psychology, expensive wet labs for Biology, 
Chemistry, and Chemical Engineering, 
renovation in Fine Arts associated with 
research or educational innovations, 
campus-wide computer network (that will 
include every student residence), etc. What 
you also see are 65-year old athletic facilities, 
rock-strewn play fields, the best student 
lounge on campus on the first floor of the 
library, and a “spartan” student center, 
Skibo. The lack of outside capital resources 
and the nature of resource allocation in a 
human organization, where faculty with 
focused research interests have significant 
power, conspire to produce an under supp­
ly of central facilities — those things that the 
majority of people in the university com­
munity use.
Camegie-Mellon is, first an foremost, an 
academic institution. Our first priority has 
to be that of creating and supporting ex­
cellence in our academic programs, be they 
educational or research. Any viable long­
term strategy must attend to academic needs 
first. The University has done precisely that 
over the past fifteen years, in a systematic 
and very effective way. Carnegie-Mellon is 
one of two or three elite institutions whose 
stature has increased dramatically during 
the past decade. We are not going to stop 
doing those things that have been so suc­
cessful in the past. Yet there are gaps to be 
filled and improvements to be made.
It was the realization that the available 
flows of capital resources and our “normal” 
continued on page 20
TheTartan.
Editor-in-Chief ... Christopher D. Lewis
Managing Editor.............Mohan Embar
Business Manager ...John Friedmann
News Editor.............................Karen Gray
Features Editor ....Christy Casamassima
Entertainment Editor..................Al Datri
Sports Editor..............Bonnie Jacobson
Photography Editor.........Olve Peersen
Dossier Editor................Michele Keane
Art Manager....................Mike Sussman
Ad Manager.........................Celeste Clark
Production Manager ... Katrin Wesner
Typesetting Manager___Kathie Sitter
Asst. Art Manager...........Mark Kissner
Asst. Typesetting Mngr. Paul Rydzewski
Contributing Editors: Neal Johnston, Ric 
Medrow, Stephen Volan.
Copyright © 1985 by The Tartan. The 
Editorial Board reserves the right to 
withhold from publication any copy it deems 
unfit for publication. Editorial Offices: 
Skibo 50, (412) 578-2112. Business Offices: 
Skibo 52, (412) 578 2113. 24 hour phone, 
(412) 578-2111. Mailing address: Skibo 103, 
Student Activities, Carnegie-Mellon 
University, Pittsburgh, PA 15213.
Funded in part by the Activities Fee. 
All rights reserved.
".. .the conference center and SEI were im­
portant fulfillments of Pres. Cyert's ego 
needs... There are a lot of easier ways to 
satisfy egos, even those as modestly-sized as Dick Cyert's..."

---------------------------------------------------

«
Page 20—The Tartan—September 24,1985
Student-oriented included items in campaign
continued from page 19
allocation processes would not by themselves 
produce the kind of university we want that 
caused us, nearly two years ago, to begin to 
lay the ground work for a capital campaign 
for Carnegie —Mellon. The ground work in­
cluded an update of the University’s Strategic 
Plan, a $200 million capital program to sup­
port the plan ($100 million for physical 
facilities and $100 million for increased en­
dowment), the campus Master Plan to sup­
port the physical facilities component of the 
capital program, and the other organiza­
tions and materials necessary for a successful 
fund drive. Once the campaign plan, Master 
Plan, and capital program is presented to 
the Board next month, we will begin 
meeting with faculty and students to present 
the same information.
There are many “student-oriented” items 
in the Capital Campaign. Some, such as stu­
dent housing modernization, classroom 
renovation, educational facilities, and 
educational equipment, represent expansion
of what we are already doing on a modest 
level. Two issues of direct concern to students 
were and remain at the very top of the 
priority list for the capital campaign: in­
creased endowment for student financial 
aid, and a new University Center.
The need for increased financial aid is ob­
vious, as federal student support declines 
and as the cost of supporting an “aid-blind” 
admissions policy increases with tuition 
costs. The need for a University Center is no 
less obvious. The University Center is to con­
sist of a student center (a totally renovated, 
re-skinned, and reconfigured Skibo), an 
athletic and recreation center between the 
student center and the football stadium (ra- 
quet courts, exercise rooms, indoor track, 
50-meter pool, lockers, with tennis courts on 
the roof), and a renovation of the existing 
gymnasium for basketball, volleyball, etc. In 
spite of the best efforts of many people, 
Skibo does not represent the kind of facility 
that the campus needs. Neither does the cur­
rent gymnasium building. Some facilities are
totally lacking, and in many areas there are 
too few facilities and too little space to fill 
campus (students, faculty, and staff) needs.
While there is no such thing as unanimi­
ty in any interesting organization, something 
close to that exists in the administration con­
cerning the appropriateness of the inclusion 
of the University Center in the capital cam­
paign and the need to implement the plans 
for the Center as soon as possible. I know 
we have internal plans, targets, and 
“deadlines” and that the President, Vice 
President for Development, the Vice Presi­
dent for Business Affairs, the Planning 
Director, and I all agree the University 
Center should be “first.” Now all we need is 
the rest of the world to cooperate (and give).
In summary, I think there is a legitimate 
underlying criticism of priorities as reveal­
ed by the University’s actions. There are ex­
planations for these actions that have 
nothing to do with a lack of concern for stu­
dent needs. There are moves afoot to address 
student needs, especially through the up­
coming capital campaign. We need student 
help and support if we are to be successful.
John P. Crecine, Senior Vice President for 
Academic Affairs, serves as provost for CFA 
and H&SS, has responsibility for resource 
allocation (capital, operating, and space), 
university planning, computing, libraries, 
and student affairs.
Senator wants 
more problems
continued from page 18 
the administration. Bring us your gripes 
and we’ll bust them. You’ll probably be 
surprised at our success, even more surpris­
ed at how responsive the faculty and ad­
ministration can be.
Student Senate meets tonight at 7:00 
p.m. in the Wherrett Room.
Michael Bett is a senior majoring in 
Mathematics and is Chairman of Student 
Senate.
First, assume the recruiters at the Boston Consulting Group wont be impressed by a”B”in Corporate Finance.
Second, assume a “B-Grade” calculator won’t 
be good enough to help you make the grade in 
“B-School!’
We suggest you get a calculator that has 
no equal.
The HP-12C.
So advanced, it doesn’t need an “equals” key. 
So extremely simple to use, you’ll be mastering 
even the toughest courses.
The HP-12C is a recognized standard in the 
world of business. Ask any banker. Or financial 
analyst. Or consultant.
It offers more built-in financial calculating 
power than any other hand-held. Press just 
one key and quickly solve time value of money 
calculations like net present value, internal 
rate of return, or amortization.
The HP-12C’s quality has no equal. That’s 
something you can see. Even feel. Right down 
to the touch of the keys.
They’re specifically designed to eliminate 
double entry. So you won’t enter more than one 
number at a time.
It’s a calculator you’ll appreciate even more 
as time progresses and as you progress. From 
the classroom to the boardroom.
So make a smart investment right now.
Go to your campus bookstore and get an 
HP-12C.
Or call (800) FOR-HPPC toll-free. Ask for 
Dept. 735A. We’ll instantly give you the name
of a dealer who 
has no equal.
Then write to 
this address a little 
later on.
Exchange Place, 
Boston, MA 02109.
It’s the interna­
tional headquar­
ters of the Boston 
Consulting Group.
HEWLETT
PACKARD
PG12512

---------------------------------------------------

Who says the 
Pittsburgh Symphony 
is beyond your reach?
Now, with our 
Special Student Subscription, 
you can enjoy 8 Sunday 
Afternoon Concerts for only $28.
Students, we've chosen a series just for you, designed to bring you 
the best of the Pittsburgh Symphony at one low price, at a time 
that's right for you. For only $3.50 a concert, you can thrill to the 
works of Mozart, Tchaikovsky, and Beethoven in the elegant 
setting of Heinz Hall.
Take a look at the programs. All have been chosen with your 
schedule in mind: evenly distributed (four concerts this semester, 
four concerts next semester), and designed to accommodate your 
finals schedule.
Imagine, for less than the price of a movie, you can escape from the 
daily school routine, and spend your Sunday Afternoons with us.
1985-86 Student Series
Oct-13 Michael Lankester conducts Mozart, Kolb, Debussy, and 
Janacek; with Guest Artist Jeffrey Siegal, piano
Oct. 20 Rudolph Barshai conducts Tchaikovsky and Shostakovich; 
with Guest Artist Ivo Fogorelich, piano
Nov. 24 Yoshima Takeda conducts Copland, Elgar, and
Rachmaninov; with Guest Artist Jorge Bolet, piano
Dec. 1 Zdenek Macal conducts Beethoven and Prokofiev; with 
Guest Artist Alexis Weissenberg, piano
Jan. 26 Herbert Blomstedt conducts Weber, Bartók, and Brahms; 
with Guest Artist Malcolm Frager, piano
Mar. 2 Jean-Pierre Rampal will conduct and Perform Rossini, Bach, 
Mozart, and Beethoven 
Mar. 30 Christoph Eschenbach will conduct and Perform Mozart 
and Brahms
Apr. 13 Rafael Fruehbeck de Burgos conducts Dvorak and 
Rimsky-Korsakov
ALL CONCERTS ARE ON SUNDAYS, AT 2:30To order call: 392-4821
The Pittsburgh Symphony- Bringing 
the best to the Students of Pittsburgh.
THE PITTSBURGH 
SYMPHONY
Women's Health Services.
FREE PREGNANCY TESTING
Oakland—Rm. 212, 3520 Forbes Ave.
Downtown—3rd floor, 107 6th St.
• ABORTION SERVICES
• BIRTH CONTROL & GYNE CARE
For Your WHS SURVIVAL KIT, Fill Out & Mail Coupon To: 
Women's Health Services, 107 6th St., Pittsburgh, PA 15222 
Telephone: (412) 562-1900
WHS Survival Kit
Name 
Street _
CityState-Zip
College (if student) _________________________
Mail to: WHS, 107 6th St., Pittsburgh, PA 15222
«¦¦¦¦¦¦Saul «¦¦¦¦¦¦¦¦¦¦I
inTvswnTrrrrsraR
llàüAUÂUkXULUÜ.a'Â 
ifrrr^nr^Trrr'T i¦ |f tkv I % 11 *! u
COMMUNICATION & ELECTRONIC SYSTEM ENGINEERING
INTRUSION STSTEMS DIGITAL COMM HIGH FREQUENCY RARI« MICROWAVE NETWORKS
SATELLITE STATIONS COMPUTER NETWORKS RADAR SYSTEMS AIR TRAFFIC STSTEMS
TELEPHONE SWITCHING TELEPHONE PLANNING NAVIGATIONAL AIOS
RECRUITERS WILL BE ON CAMPUS 
9 OCT 85 
INTERVIEWING FOR CIVILIAN POSITIONS 
AS ELECTRONIC ENGINEERS
485th Engineering 
Installation Group
GRIFFISS AFB, NEW YORK
Our bakery features everything from homemade old-fashioned pizza and calzones to the freshest daily-baked cookies and buns.
Build your own salad at our bounti ful salad bar fresh fruit, vegeta bies. chicken salad, and more
See our in-house butcher shop featuring a char broikd rib eye steak sandwich, a half pound and quarter pound hamburger, a char broiled chicken breast sandwich, a fresh baked fish sandwich and an all beef char-broiled quarter pound hot dog.
We make our own tee cream and old fashioned waffle cones every day
DONT FORGET OÜR CONDIMENT BAR WITH FRESH TOMA 
TOES. LETTCICE, PICKLES, ONIONS, REUSH AND KETTLES OF
MELTED CHEESE AND SAUERKRAUT------NO CHARGE OF
COURSE!
NOTHIN’ LIKE IT IN THE WHOLE U.S. OF A.
422 1900

---------------------------------------------------

Acme.
Announcements
CMU Law Club is open to all students interested 
in making contacts in the profession and prepar­
ing for the LSAT’s. The first organizational 
meeting will be held on Wednesday October 2 
at 7 pm in Skibo 12.
Classifieds
Parties Parties Parties We have 
everything for your party at PAPER- 
MART.... Over 10,000 square feet of party 
supplies in our PARTY SUPERMARKET. 
Baum Blvd. at Morewood Ave. 681-8900.
Used Computer Wanted Call 261-3933.
Is it true you can buy Jeeps for $44 through 
the U.S. government? Get the facts today! 
Call 1-312-742-1142, Ext. 3401-A.
3 BR HOUSE for rent- Squirrel Hill - for 
3 people. $210 each + utilities. Call Maria 
at 521-5247.
Pittsburgh Guitars-We buy, sell, & trade us­
ed and vintage guitars. 4806 Liberty, Bloom­
field, across from West Penn Hospital. 
621-4733.
Audiophile Stereo. Dual-Sonus-Advent- 
Spica $600. Kenwood hispeed 60 watts $250. 
13” television guaranteed $125. IBM 
typewriter $200. 687-7445.
OVER 50 BRANDS OF AUDIO, VIDEO 
AND CAR STEREO EQUIPMENT. CON 
TACT HAL AT 683-3948 AFTER 6 P.M.
Furniture sale—Two blue carpets, approx­
imately 15 ' X 25 ', $100 each or best offer. 
Blue upholstered living room chair, $75 or 
best offer. All in good condition. Call Gina 
at X3106 (daytime).
FOR RENT- Bloomfield - Unfurnished - 3 
Rooms; Bath; Modern; 3rd Floor; Wall to 
Wall Carpeting - Adult - 361-2928.
PLANTS & FLOWERS for sale. Desk 
plants $7.50. Bouquets $3-5.00.. .All 
FRESH.. .Alex’s Flowers, corner of 
Craig/Bayard (across from Gulf Station.)
$I0-$360 Weekly/Up Mailing Circulars! No 
quotas! Sincerely interested rush self- 
addressed envelope: Success, PO Box 
470CEG, Woodstock, II 60098.
Earn up to $2,000 in your spare time 
teaching KNITTING! For more information 
call collect 617-266-7383.
Wanted—Student/s to share cost of student 
subscription to Pittsburgh Symphony 
1985-86 series. Call Shari before Oct. 1. 
682-5945.
Smithfield United Church (United Church * 
of Christ and Methodist) welcomes college 
students to our 10:45 a.m. Sunday services 
at 620 Smithfield St. downtown across from 
Gimbel’s garage. Participate in theological­
ly open approach and be our guest for 
lunch.
Sq. Hill, 2-3 BR, 5 min. walk to campus, 
lg., modem, w/w, laund., secure, bright, op­
tional lease, avail, immed., $495-$595. 
363-3560.
Shadyside efficiency apartments for rent. 
Security building. Call 682-3497.
Miscellaneous
Richard M. Cyert will have open office hours 
between 3:30 pm to 5:30 pm on Wednesday, Oc­
tober 9. Students who wish to meet with the presi­
dent should telephone his secretary at 578-2200 
to set up an appointment.
Events
Movies0/1X ^^LThe Stranger, starring Marcello
Mastroianni, Anna Karina. Fine 
adaptation of Camus’ novel about a man whc 
feels isolated from society. Pittsburgh Playhouse, 
7:30 pm, 9:30 pm. Admission $2.95.
Recreation
CMU Talent Show Tryouts. Sign up in Skibo 
Gray Matter. For more information call Dawn 
Buey or Eleanor Reid at x2154. Skibo Ballroom, 
7:30 pm to 9:30 pm.
Tai Chi Chuan, ancient Chinese exercise sessions 
for fitness and weight control. Instructor Bob Lin. 
Skibo 11, 2 pm to 3:30 pm. All students and facul­
ty members welcome.
Clubs
Student Senate meets in Skibo Wherrett Room 
at 7 pm. Everyone welcome.
?X Movies
Tender Mercies, starring Robert 
mmA Duvall (Oscar winner). A story
about a down-and-out country singer. Rated PG. 
Pittsburgh Playhouse, 7:30 pm, 9:30 pm. Admis­
sion $2.95.
Recreation
La Table Française, the French Language Table 
at the Morewood Dining Room. Everyone in­
terested in the French language is invited to at­
tend. Morewood Gardens, 12 noon.
ClubsAIESEC offers a world of experience, both prac­
tical and cultural, in an international student- 
run business organization. Skibo 11, 4:30 pm. 
Everyone welcome.
Astronomy Club meets in Doherty Hall 2304 at 
8 pm.
Movies
l^§The Entertainer, starring 
mtmA Laurence Olivier, Albert Finney,
Joan Plowright. One of Olivier’s greatest roles as 
a has-been performer. Pittsburgh Playhouse, 7:30 
pm, 9:30 pm. Admission $2.95.
Citizen Kane. Doherty Hall 2210, 6 pm, 8:30 pm, 
11 pm. Admission $1.
Recreation
Tai Chi Chuan, ancient Chinese exercise sessions 
for fitness and weight control. Instructor Bob Lin. 
Skibo 11, 2 pm to 3:30 pm. All students and 
faculty members welcome.
MORE Stats. Power! IMPROVED File Handling. Reporting
The Enhanced 
and Expanded 
Statistical Package for 
IBM PC/XT/ATs
PzPP,ziI p nscfbAhN OboD PzPP,ziI dN’mAnhN Pomobwobnwl mAN PzPP,zi I ­mfahwv. esyc ­g3 cswo nsc0yhDhAwb’h womobwobnma wseoOmyh m’mbamfah osy m cbnysnsc0rohy !sy Ahmya1 -2 1hmywv oDh Amch SPzPPl Dmw chmAo DbFD $rmabo1 cmbAeymch wseoOmyhp daa oDyhh cbnys0ysNrnow cmbALombA ehmoryh mAN amAFrmFh nsc0mobfbabo1 OboD oDh cmbAeymch ’hywbsAw dAN PzPP,ziI nschw OboD h’hy1oDbAF 1sr wDsraN h*0hno eysc m cmytho ahmNhy . m oDsysrFDv Ohaa.NhwbFAhN 0mntmFh OboD h*nhaahAo NsnrchAomobsA mAN nrwoschy wr00syo
PzPP,ziIEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEE
¦ Display manager & editor¦ File matching & merging¦ File transfer with popular PC programs¦ Selective installation & removal ot procedures¦ Crosstabulation¦ Descriptive statistics¦ Multiple regression
¦ ANCM¦ Plots & graphs¦ Flexible data transformation¦ Customized reports
PzPP,zi.o. dx:d/i3x P­d­6P­6iP
D MANOVA9 Factor analysis ¦ Cluster analysis B Discnmmant analysis S Loglinear modelling
PzPP,zi I ­d853P
B Stub & banner tables B Multiple response data B Presentation quality tables and reports B Full range of percentaging and statistics options
H This symbol mdtcales 9*e exerting new* capabilities ¦¦ v« added to SPSS/PC *
!sy csyh Information, nsAomno sry kmythobAF xh0myochAo mop
PzPP bAnpCCC /v kbnDbFmA d’hArh 
iDbnmFsv 65 727GG "G-,"-'."922
6/ 3U¦Oz3:PzPP 3rys0h 8: zO 8s* GG9 C-22 di usAAnDhc 
­Dh /hoDhyamANwpzDsAh: I"GG8"2"77GG ­TX: -G2G'
:6Pdv kmwohyimyN mAN dchybnmA 
3*0yhww mnnh0ohN
SPSS inc.PRODUCTIVITY RAISED TO THE HIGHEST POWERfchaddnk Coree» SPSS me kx compatì» rrucrocompute»*. >BM PC/XT and PC/AT aie «fiSPSS/PC' runs on the CM PC/XT — —-------------------—r-ires Corpora»" SPSS SPSS/PC SPSS/PC SPSS/PC lattes and SPSS/PC ••SPSS/PC VKvnceO and SPSS/^C totei ** vxjar*e*v packag*) ana vX) e
Deutscher Stammtisch, the German Language 
Table at the Morewood Dining Room. Everyone 
intersted in the German language is invited to at­
tend. Morewood Gardens, 12 noon.
Clubs
Explorer’s Club plans rock-climbing, kayaking, 
and hiking trips every weekend. Skibo 11, 8 pm. 
Beginners welcome.
CMU Investment Group. Learn how to invest 
and manage a real portfolio. Officer elections will 
be held. Skibo 11, 6:30 pm. Everyone welcome.
Movies9*7X M Ladyhawke, starring Rutger Hauer, 
JmmA 9 Matthew Broderick, Michelle Pfeif­
fer. Medieval romance about a knight and his 
lady. Rated PG-13. Pittsburgh Playhouse, 7:30 
pm, 9:40 pm, 11:50 pm. Admission $2.95.
Dune. Doherty Hall 2210, 6 pm, 8:30 pm, 11 pm. 
Admission $1.
Music
Pittsburgh Symphony Orchestra, conducted by 
Christopher Eschenbach. Works performed are 
Mozart’s Clarinet Concerto, and Mahler’s Sym­
phony No. 1. Students may purchase remaining 
seats for $7 one hour before the performance. 
Heinz Hall, 8:30 pm. For more information call 
392-4800.
O Q MoTies
Witness, starring Harrison Ford, 
Kelly McGillis. Strong film about 
an urban detective and an Amish family. Rated 
R. Pittsburgh Playhouse, 7:30 pm, 9:30 pm, 11:30 
pm. Admission $2.95.
Starman. Doherty Hall 2210, 6 pm, 8 pm, 10 pm, 
12 am. Admission $1.
Music
Pittsburgh Symphony Orchestra. See Friday 
September 27 for details. Heinz Hall, 2:30 pm.
Movies
f Bizet’s Carmen, starring Plácido
Domingo, Julia Migenes-Johnson. 
Spirited film version of Bizet’s opera. Rated PG. 
Pittsburgh Playhouse, 7:30 pm only. Admission 
$2.95.
Stripes. Doherty Hall 2210. 6 pm, 8 pm, 10 pm, * 
12 am. Admission $1.
Music
Pittsburgh Symphony Orchestra. See Friday 
September 27 for details. Heinz Hall, 8 pm.
Movies
I I Buñuel Double Bill: EAge D’Or 
and An Andalusian Dog. Two 
Surrealist classics. Pittsburgh Playhouse, 7:30 pm, 
9:30 pm. Admission $2.95.
Plays
The Matchmaker, by Thornton Wilder. « 
Presented by Junior Repertory Theater. Studio 
Theater, 4:30 pm, 8 pm.
Clubs
A phi O meets in Skibo Wherrett Room at 7:30 
pm. Everyone welcome.
See the Sports Section for this week’s sports 
schedule.__________________________________
If you wish to place an announcement, 
classified ad, miscellaneous item, or event m The 
Tartan send it in care of the Acme Editor, The 
Tartan, 103 Skibo, Carnegie-Mellon University, 
Pittsburgh, PA. 15213; send it via campus mail 
to the above address; or drop it off at our offices 
in 50 Skibo. Events may be sent through com­
puter mail to TT99@TF. Only classified ads will 
be accepted over the phone.
Please include the following information when 
submitting events: title of event, sponsor, brief 
description, location, date, and time. In addi­
tion, include the name and phone number of the 
person submitting; this information will be used 
only to confirm the event.
The Tartan is not responsible for the accuracy 
or validity of any Events listings. In addition, it 
reserves the right to edit or omit any listing for v 
publication.
Classified ad forms are available in our office.
All events are free of charge and open to the 
general CMU student population unless other­
wise noted.
Deadline for Acme Submissions is Wednesday 
at 5 pm for the next week’s issue. If you have any 
comments or suggestions, send them to any of the 
addresses listed above.
Thanksgiving flights to New York via USAir
412/366-7855
Depart Pittsburgh Nov. 26 & 27 in the evening to Newark 
Return from Newark on the evening of Dec. 1
SEATS ARE LIMITED * DELIVERY TO CAMPUS
TheNw wehss paradermatologist
• student discount available
• easilv accessible b\ bus from CMlT
3500 Fifth Ave, Suite 102, Oakland 
682-4770
Masit’ri'urd. \’isa </< < eptcd 
< '.all (¡i>/xmunu /ii
Oat *7*2921CMU Travel Office
Campui Consentane*
Skibo 40A

---------------------------------------------------

Funes.
Zurkby Nabil Liumang
¿¡fn the foreign stud erri 
registration o^fi.ce.
Hello ,my name, Won£>.
i'm a mal Km a kcal£)oruus.
/Tkn ow all the: Unix Kernel 
coclt loy htar-L I also can
unoler54andi corc dumps,
What can 
'ou clo?
;mUf,
Murray The Bear
ofCng i-Mh Nlws 
CLOSE -UPS of RE Al 
WILD -LIFE,
THE NUN-BEATINGS 
AND UMIOM SHOP 
&LACK UStltJC)
STORIES CftW WAIT.
HOW ABOUT A 1 FT. 
POLAR BEAR. INA 
HAWAIIAN SHIRT 
AT POINT
T heU.S B
by Jimbo Voorhees
TS
VOURE A GWTftT . - 
ŸS KIDDER FRANK , MOW,) W 
*i\HOW ABOUT.... 1 ’
BLOOM COUNTY
»provided by SDCby Berke Breathed
wiilNesobN i dy’be mo VcltbmlNe mtews. we weæ so olee,iw obeNThaett/E UP UKB APOLL. THEN
wev pass o/tfwm all ¦me erhh ^ )
'ONE PW WE WE& KISSING MPi&w wbydnyobShk mse dbS elclchbi ms enow œs hyvsTNbeii ob Sohefobek ' i.. m elhh2NVOUT, ‘CILLA J"
marnmME AfiXim/67Dam F mu 
fuecmmmtmtDHEfct
J/u~ /
C0NSFWmX6/AU.0FÌ0U/
taking ApmrAse of a comsepamnesia wem/ som C MUac &i?
HA/ I OUST POÑT Buyrr.f
ANRPtSSVEOE ANP AEMPYNAMIC- I AM NOT/ A BMP CAN FCY.. I CAN NOT/ A ORP CAN Sm... LISTEN TO THIS :
fìy&mrtY-. JÌ fj 
AiLrtfWueces ** 
smsosorxRMV*. 
m) rr CMS AS^,1WU6H 7&Yte H€te\ TO
wvesiER-¿rftMUbM* / _ „
HE mss WHO AM I 
A STRONG REALLY?
tlhbi 'MLiwm.e, THE MOOSe'?
uu CMU :pOPg, baebts -e 10 ACCEPT THE FACT mriHANeTosmv sobcbhsyvdLUFB AS A P&ÜWN?
lN blVmb ms fycN sy 
hylI -me hI2bhiil frvvlmy Slh fycN io Km me ecl2c2biiSO WHAT. FOR GOOPNESS SAKE. IS NH me ANPNRWRALpvmse 2N Lire ?
"j
HOWS 'MISTS#AMNESIA' POING OH, WE¦mese elLh ? mue sS2VI IS SmPLYPITIFUL--*\
..SOI 5 SEHT HIM OFF ^ FORSOMbOOP,K SOLIP, PROFESSIONAL COUNSELING...
P5VCHIATRC MELP5*
Tp 5rn1 TT z35­
\mmritiPSBOP..mm mamma, mm N Httm moca, morns Hare tsimte
irs me...FOR A BREAK.
r
liiUmi¿ÍL..+
SO. THEY STILL INSIST TM A-A PENGUIN. WELL. I SURE KNOW WHAT 1 THINK ABOUT THAT •'
O.
own mmv, rm ownvmrnRôepfiWLse vm wrm A dwt* on HIS Am 7HAÁ/ a imp ANP PUHPY MlfAfWL vtiHAzrr ON HIS NOSS*
¿¿a.
—? Tartan Photo Contest Results-*—
19-Sep-85 23:20:09-EDT,000453;000000000001
Received: from CMU-CC-TB by CMU-CC-TF; Thu 19 Sep 85 22:44:40-EDT
Received: ID [xxxx@CMU-CC-TB]; 19 Sep 85 22:44:36 EOT
Date: 19 Sep 85 22:44:36 EDT
From: xxxx@CMU-CC-TB
To: TT99@CMU-CC-TF
Subject: Photo Contest
It is quite obviously a close-up of a hole of a grate that is situated on a gravel 
path between the Fine Arts building and the tennis courts. But I’m sure you’ve 
been told that x billion times already.
Right on, xxxx. As a matter of fact, every entry we received for this contest gave the 
same answer as yours. If you remember last week, we said answers will be judged on the 
basis of creativity and originality. But how can you adjudicate a winner when all the 
responses are alike?
With this in mind, keep your eyes open for our next photo contest.

---------------------------------------------------

WHLCOME BACK
G=*
Lodg sim
PIZZArm*
For matinaMeegfhfR3KÌNDS OF SUBSco,
683-030BAUM BLVD
COUPONlUPON¦nrCOUPON
¦BIG 12”SUB1
¦ WITH THE PURCHASE 1
AC AMV 4C” DI77A ¦
I
OF ANY 16” PIZZA
(AT THE REGULAR PRICE)
l^%BCflUST 1 ¦^K'l^pius J1
1 ' JoSic $C1 11_ -..eCSfc ,r |J 11 * BIß Ji $“• - -
» 2 '{$KES
NAMf A DOW SS
O/3 iOUzO/ z3¦ z6ZZd T3 ¦3P3¦:3 ­g3
iOUzO/ 3Xz6¦3P ¦6ug­ ­O 56k6­
OU¦ x356:3¦Y
AtilADDRESSNAME
OCK-NCOUPON
56:3¦Y d¦3d ¦ m G2,7,89
¦¦ mm kn warn
O/3 iOUzO/ z3¦ z6ZZd T3 ¦3P3¦:3 ­g3
iOUzO/ 3Xz6¦3P ¦6ug­ ­O 56k6­
OU¦ x356:3¦Y
UPON ¦¦
P^OFFl
61V 4 I
11 ANY PIZZA I
- II NAME ADDUESS |
COUPON
LIVERYARE^Jj |^1W^85
O/3 iOUzO/ z3¦ z6ZZd T3 ¦3P3¦:3 ­g3
iOUzO/ 3Xz6¦3P ¦6ug­ ­O 56k6­
OU¦ x356:3¦Y
COUPON
eysBCROCBtLy yYyNKEMP
*Am£ ADDHESS
O/3 iOUzO/ z3¦ z6ZZd T3 ¦3P3¦:3 ­g3
iOUzO/ 3Xz6¦3P ¦6ug­ ­O 56k6­
OU¦ x356:3¦Y b
COUPON
ion i i Limi i gp*
iLIVE RY AREA B
