The Carnegie Tartan
Vol. 38 No. 36CARNEGIE INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY, PITTSBURGH, PA.TUESDAY, NOVEMBER 7, 1944
Years of the Locusts 
By Constance O’Hara 
Will Open Nov, 11
The Drama Department’s forth­
coming production, The Years of the 
Locusts, will open Saturday even­
ing, November 11. It will run 
through November 21. This three- 
act play by Constance Marie O’Hara 
is directed by Mary Morris. The cast 
of the leads is as follows:
Mother Prioress—
Marilyn Bloom 
Kathryn Cook 
Dame Patrick—
Joan Bower 
Theo Dunkleman 
Helene Vouclair—
Marcia Wachter 
Sally Ann Rosenberg 
Sister Teresa—
Sue Crobaugh 
June Shannon 
Dr. Van Der Meersch—
Marquis Patterson 
L’Abbe Bounet—
Clark Marlor 
Edmund—
Jack Hochhauser
The setting of this play is a Bene­
dictine Convent located in Ypres, 
Belgium. The action takes place 
during November of 1914. The char­
acters for the most part are of the 
Holy Order. The students’ acting 
and interpretation promise to make 
this a play worth seeing.
Tickets will be available for the 
student body at the Registrar’s Of­
fice, Friday, November 10.
Theta’s Initiate Eight 
In Solemn Ceremony
On November 3, 1944 at half past 
five, eight Kappa Alpha Theta 
pledges were initiated into the fra­
ternity.
These who are now proudly wear­
ing the kite, pin of the KAT’s, are 
Jean Boltey, Jane Culp, Margaret 
Harris, Mary Jane Horrige, Nancy 
Morrison, Janet Murray, Marjorie 
Reno, and Maureen Dyer of the 
United States Marine Corps. This 
pledge class is the first to go through 
initiation since Beta Tau Lambda 
went national last April 29.
Following the ceremonies, a ban­
quet was held at Webster Hall. The 
evening ended in the singing of 
some Kappa Alpha Theta songs. At 
the initiation was District President 
of the fraternity, Mrs. H. Piden.
Results of CIT Straw Vote
Student Results—
Dewey ..................................60.9%
Roosevelt ..............................38.1%
Undecided ............................ 1.0%
Faculty Results—
Dewey ..................................65.8%
Roosevelt ..............................32.5%
Undecided ............................ 1.7%
Blood Drive Begins 
For Six Hundred 
C.I.T. Students
For the three days, November 9, 
10, 11, Tech has promised to pro­
vide half the four hundred pints of 
blood quota needed by the Red 
Cross headquarters in the Wabash 
Building to meet the needs of the 
armed forces. This means that in 
each day, at least two hundred stu­
dents, faculty members, and alumni 
must contribute their pint. Mortar 
Board, which is sponsoring the 
drive, says that it is up to every 
person on campus to make it his 
duty to see that the promise is kept.
Registration headquarters have 
been set up in the Canteen, this be­
ing the most convenient place since 
it is situated at mid-campus and is 
a meeting place for most students. 
Applications and release notices can 
be obtained here from eleven to five 
throughout the school week up to 
Wednesday, November 8. In regis­
tering, students must fill out a card 
for the date and time of appoint­
ment and, if under the age of twen­
ty-one, he must obtain his parent’s 
signature on the release notice. 
Should his appointment be made at 
the time during which he has class, 
a card permitting him a two-hour 
excuse will be given to him.
To show the progress of the cam­
paign, a series of charts drawn up 
for campus organizations and a 
huge thermometer for the whole 
school outside the Canteen, will re- 
Continued on page 4
Music Honorary Holds 
Sophomore Recital
The Sophomore class of the Music 
Department presented a recital in 
the Exhibition Room of the Fine 
Arts Building Friday, November 3, 
at three o’clock. The program was 
sponsored by Sigma Alpha Iota, the 
national professional fraternity for 
women in the field of music.
From this group of twelve Soph­
omores who performed at the re­
cital, the new members of Sigma 
Alpha Iota will be selected on the 
basis of musical talent, scholastic 
standing, and activity in the music 
department.
Notice
BULLETIN BOARDS —No no-
tices shall be placed on the bulletin 
boards except by authorization of 
the Dean’s Office. An exception to 
this rule is made where a notice 
concerns the students of one col­
lege only. These need not be de­
livered to the Dean’s Office, but can 
be posted on the one board con­
cerned by the organization inter­
ested. No poster shall be larger 
than 14x11 inches except by per­
mission of the Dean of Students.
Carnegie Receives 
Mackey Scholarship 
From Mergenthaler
The Mergenthaler Linotype Com­
pany announced the endowment of 
the Joseph T. Mackey Scholarship 
in Printing at Carnegie Institute of 
Technology, Pittsburgh, Pa., at a 
dinner held in the Waldorf-Astoria 
Hotel, New York, yesterday. The 
scholarship gift of $20,000 commem­
orated the start of the fiftieth year 
of President Mackey’s employment 
by the Mergenthaler Company. The 
gift was formally received by Dr. 
Robert E. Doherty, President of 
Carnegie Tech. Dr. Webster N. 
Jones, Director of College of Engi­
neering, and Professor Glen U. 
Cleeton, Head of the Department of 
Printing, also attended the dinner.
Mr. Mackey’s life-long interest in 
Graphic Arts Education led the 
Board of Directors of Mergenthaler 
to choose this means to honor him,
and the unique record of Carnegie 
Tech in college training of young 
men to assume important positions 
in the printing industry brought 
about its selection as the scholar­
ship recipient. Carnegie is the only 
college in the world granting a de­
gree in printing. Its Department of 
Printing was organized in 1913, and 
Harry L. Gage, now Vice-President 
in Charge of Sales for Mergenthal­
er, was the department’s first head.
Frederick W. McDenney, of 
Washington, D. C., Mergenthaler’s 
senior director and vice-president, 
presided at the dinner, which was 
attended by more than 200 execu­
tives of the Linotype business fam­
ily.
Notice
There will be a meeting of all re­
porters who are on the TARTAN 
staff at five o’clock in room 232, 
Industries Hall. It is very import­
ant that all reporters attend this 
meeting. Please be prompt.
Undefeated KSAE 
Takes Grid Title
Wildcats Trample Devils; 
Finish in Second Place
Three played games last week 
wound up the Tech Intramural 
football league for the 1944 season. 
As was expected throughout, the 
KSAE’s finished on top, undefeat­
ed, and had their goal crossed only 
three times in the season. The final 
obstacle to the KSAE triumph was 
removed last Monday, when the 
Delts went forth for a last-ditch 
fight. The addition of Johnny Bo- 
berg to their roster, however, gave 
the heavier KSAE’s more than 
enough to come through.
The Delts took the opening kick- 
off, moved well for two first downs, 
and then lost the ball on downs. 
Boberg then proceeded to pass for 
three, run for ten, watch Gilles­
pie plunge for the first, and pass to 
Gillespie in the end zone. The Delts 
charged back, slinging long, des­
perate passes, and “Red” Baney 
finally gained control of the ball in 
the end zone long enough to have 
it ruled a catch and a touchdown. 
The KSAE protest quieted, play 
went on, and Boberg again passed to 
Gillespie for a touchdown. Score: 
KSAE 11, Delts 7. The KSAE’s 
opened a third quarter running 
drive which the Delts could not 
stop, with Gillespie scoring his third 
touchdown of the day to make it 18-
7 KSAE. A Delt safety and another 
first down ended the scoring. Final 
Score: KSAE 22, Delta Tau Delta 7.
Meanwhile, the runner-up Wild­
cats sank the SAE Blue Devil’s 
chance of a victory by stomping on 
them to the tune of 21-7. Two touch­
down by Tasso Katselas, one by 
Theodore, and a fourth by Pavlik 
crushed the hapless Blue Devils be­
fore the game was under way. The 
only Blue Devil score was recorded 
as Mike Frangoulis crashed through 
on a Wildcat fumble, trampled the 
halfback, kicked the ball along, and 
finally picked it up and fell over 
for the score.
The postponed replay of the The- 
ta-Xi-Wildcat game came off on 
Tuesday, and concluded the action 
in the league for the season. The 
touchdown-mad Wildcats raced off 
four touchdowns in the first half, 
and led the TX outfit by 21-7 at 
the half. Never discouraged, how­
ever, TX came fighting back to 
score twice in the last half and gain­
ed possession on the Wildcat eight 
with two minutes to go. Three plays 
carried to the three, and the fourth- 
down pass failed. The final score 
Continued on page 4
UNITED WAR FUND

---------------------------------------------------

THE CARNEGIE TARTANTUESDAY, NOVEMBER 7, 1944
Zdiio^L A'uncltai'i
The Editor’s Gripe
We feel quite flattered. For the past three weeks scores of people — 
students, members of the faculty, and in general quite a few persons 
whom we never suspected to be Tartan readers — have voiced very favor­
able comments on the contents of the last issues. Everything about them 
seems to have been good: the size, the articles, the abundance of pictures, 
and even, incredibly enough, the editorials. Needless to say, we were 
delighted to receive some remarks other than the caustic ones with which 
we have been supplied in the past.
But, unfortunately, flattery alone will get us nowhere. We have to 
have money, interesting articles must be written, good pictures have to 
be taken, and big issues have to be put together — all that means a lot 
of work, and a lot of workers. We have too much of the former, and too 
little of the latter. There are a few students who come up week after 
week, Fridays and Sundays, and do more than their share to provide 
this school with a weekly paper. But there are many more who saunter 
in every three or four weeks, do a bit of work, and leave again, fully 
confident of their indispensability, and expecting — of course — to see 
their names listed on the masthead. Yet, even if these pseudo-workers 
were added to the staff, the total Tartan membership would comprise but 
a pitifully small part of the C. I. T. student body. It seems that there are 
hundreds of people who are quite willing to receive a weekly paper — 
and, of course, to be highly indignant if it is a few hours late — but very 
few who have enough school spirit to work for it.
A paper’s biggest asset is its pictures. We always try to offer as many 
pictures as possible. In the last two issues we splurged ourselves into the 
red and gave you campus shots and pictures of the IF dance. But such a 
weekly venture costs much more than we can now afford. A picture in 
the Tartan is becoming a luxury, and just as all human beings in many 
situations welcome luxuries, so do we welcome being able to print pictures 
in the Tartan.
Th story is this: In our present financial condition we can only afford 
a four-page paper every week. We would like to be able to afford 8- or 10- 
or even 12-page issues. The only way in which we can do that is to raise 
more — lots more — money than we have. For this reason we need a 
bigger and better business staff made up of people who can get bigger 
and better advertisements for our pages.
We do not consider ourselves martyrs for a cause, nor heroes on the 
school front. Newspaper work for us — and, incidently, for everyone 
really on the staff — is so much fun that we do not mind devoting to it 
quite a few hours every week. But when four or five of us have to work 
ten hours, when twenty could do the job in three, our enthusiasm wanes.
We have made several appeals for Tartan staff workers. We make 
one more.
We won’t quit; help or no help, we’ll manage to put out some kind of 
an issue every week. But if the students of Carnegie Tech want quality 
and quantity — it’s theirs for the working.
THE EDITORS.
Reply
In our issue of October 24th we discussed the deplorable “exclusion of 
women” practice existing in the Main Library. We received the following 
letter this week from Mr. Ralph Munn, the librarian of Carnegie Tech, 
which should help to clear the situation:
Dear Miss Herlick:
Through an unfortunate misunderstanding, students of Margaret 
Morrison Carnegie College have gained the impression that they must 
secure library service through their own branch only.
The Margaret Morrison Carnegie branch library was established for 
the convenience of women students. To a large extent, the books relating 
to their courses are housed there. Margaret Morrison students are, how­
ever, fully welcome to use any other campus library which contains need­
ed materials.
Very truly yours,
(signed) RALPH MUNN, 
Librarian of Carnegie Tech.
Opinions expressed in the pages of the TARTAN are those of the members of the ttaff; in the case of the editorial column they are those of the Editor. They are not to be construed as necessarily the opinions of either the student body or the faculty.
The Carnegie Tartan
Carnerie Institute of Technology, Schenley Park, Pittsburgh 13, Pa.
IONK MAYFLOWER 2600 PHONE SCHENLEY 4M7
«t«o rom national advmtioiwo BY After Office Hours Call
National Advertising Service, Inc. Editor-in-chief .......... Emerson 1808
College Publishers Representative 
420 Madison avi. new York. h. y. Business Manager.........Jackson 9896
C8IICAOO ' Bosvoa • Lot ByCoC n sta cetyOC’Oe 
Hnter** aa second-class matter In the Pittsburgh Post Office nnder the Act •( March S, 1870. 
Pahlishet weekly daring school year, except holidays and examination periods. 
8abscript!on Price $1.10 per year.
Editors in-chief.......................................................... Ernie Lowenstein, Adeline Herlick
Managing Editor ............................................................................... ............. Clara Herron
Business Manager ......................................................................................... Paul Schucker
Advertising Manager ..............’.................................................................... Joel Bigelman
Circulation Manager ....................................................................................... Sam Marcus
Sports Editor .............................................................. .................................. Tom Bokman
Letters To The Editor
We welcome the following letter from the Delta Tau Delta fraternity 
presenting their side of the by now well-known argument. A reiteration 
of the facts as seen by us, or a discussion of this letter would only tend 
to confuse the issue even more. We are content to refer the readers to 
our article in the issue of October 23, and to our editorial in the next 
issue. May the reader decide.
E. A. L.
In the last issue of the Tartan, the editor, E. A. Lowenstein, publish­
ed a short editorial containing a mild retraction of certain misstatements 
he had made in the Tartan of the week before—six lines of retraction and 
eight lines of justification. In the editorial he offered the Delta Tau Delta 
fraternity the opportunity to answer his charges against the Delts. We in­
tend to do so by presenting a correct picture of the actual proceedings and 
by answering his charges and insults.
Delta Tau Delta’s representative to the Council of Fraternity Presi­
dents did not inform the Chapter of the proposed dance. In this, he was 
wrong. He assumed that the members of the fraternity would be in favor 
of the dance; there would be little reason to believe otherwise. But the 
Chapter first learned of the dance when the Treasurer was asked for the 
check. Since he had not been authorized to make any such payment, he 
refused. Information we could gather showed that the dance was being 
held to make a profit. This profit, to be used partly for running expenses 
of the Council, would have made an unequal and unfair assessment; each 
fraternity would have an equal voice in the expenditure of the money, 
but would not have contributed an equal amount. Still without any in­
formation froYn our representative, we protested. The first answer to the 
protest came at the C. F. P. meeting of October 13, erroneously described 
in E. A. Lowenstein’s article. At the meeting, our representatives could do 
no more than that which the fraternity had told them to do: refuse to par­
ticipate in the dance. The material by Mr. Lowenstein was admittedly 
written shortly after this meeting—before the author had had time to 
make a calm and conservative analysis of the situation.
When the fraternity learned the full details of what our representa­
tive had done and what plans had been made by the Council, the Execu­
tive Committee of the fraternity sent a blank check to Dean John M. 
Daniels with the instruction that it be used to cover any loss on the dance. 
No further action could be taken until the next meeting of the Active 
Chapter. At this meeting we decided to carry out the commitments made 
by our representative to the Council, in spite of our disapproval of the 
budget adopted for the dance.
E. A. Lowenstein was the only member of the Tartan staff responsible 
for the material previously published concerning this affair. In his action 
he displayed a brand of coarse sensationalism rarely found in any public 
newspaper and never in a college publication. The only possible excuse 
for writing such material would be his personal prejudice and a deluded 
sense of his own importance.
Furthermore, he committed the error af stating as facts certain things 
that were definitely not true. These falsehoods, coupled with the rest of 
the article, are damaging to Delta Tau Delta, and, because the school is 
responsible for matter printed in the Tartan, Mr. Lowenstein has made 
the school liable to a law suit. However, they cannot be taken to task for his 
actions, and only against Mr. Lowenstein himself would we press suit.
The charge that Delta Tau Delta is “bidding for power” is absurd. 
There has been no indication of any such action. We are fully occupied in 
simply keeping Delta Tau Delta an active fraternity, which under war­
time conditions is a difficult task. As for the charge that the Delts hope 
to gain by trying to keep former Tech fraternities from returning—anyone 
who will stop a moment to consider (which Mr. Lowenstein obviously did 
not do) will realize that unless a good majority of the fraternities do re­
open, the entire fraternity system at Tech will probably be done away 
with.
We freely admit that we made certain mistakes—because those who 
took action were not fully informed of all that had happened—but we have 
carried out those commitments made by our representative to the C. F. P. 
Also, we have apologized to those who were wronged by our actions. In 
return, we asked that Mr. Lowenstein retract those misstatements he had 
made. He did so by publishing an editorial more than half of which was 
devoted to justifying his own actions, and no part of which specified 
which of his assertions were false—small compensation for his blunders.
• Delta Tau Delta Fraternity.
... A.C.A.C. Minutes...
Fifty-sixth Meeting 
November 1, 1944 
The Meeting was called to order at 5:00 
p.m.Present: Messrs. Lowenstein, Pollock,
and Wangeman; Misses Barclay, Bauer, 
Brooks, Ferraez, Garland, Swaney, and 
Werner.
OLD BUSINESS
C.W.C.A.
Miss Bauer moved that C.W.C.A. be 
granted permission to award activities 
keys to the following cabinet members, 
but that the funds to purchase these ac­
tivities keys must come from the budget 
of C.W.C.A.
Silver Keys
Doris Jahn 
Evelyn MacNeil 
Barbara Brady 
Dorothy Stewart
Mildred Murrer 
Ruth Davis 
Mary Vincent 
Alberta Bruns 
Charlotte Everstein 
Gold Keys 
Clem McKenna 
Jeanne Norris 
Motion carried.
Pi Delta Epsilon 
A.C.A.C. moved that permission be 
granted to the Publications Committee to 
hold an All-Publications Banquet at the 
Royal York Dining Room on November 
27 provided that the three publications 
cover the cost of the banquet by prorat­
ing $30, or a total of $90, from the budgets 
of each of the following publications: 
Technical, Tartan, and Thistle.
Motion carried.
Continued on page 3

---------------------------------------------------

TUESDAY, NOVEMBER 7, 1944THE CARNEGIE TARTAN3
One of the Girls
Irene Waichler
If you want to throw a costume 
party, hear the latest dialect story, 
get people to work on your favorite 
charity, or have a festival booth 
built in a hurry, just call on Irene 
Waichler. In spite of the fact that 
her days contain only the custom­
ary 24 hours, she accomplishes, and 
accomplishes well, a thousand and 
one different jobs: managing pub­
licity for Students’ War Activities 
Council and the Blood Drive, 
sketching portraits at the U. S. O. 
Canteen, making patent drawings, 
acting as president of the Chi Ome­
gas, teaching handcrafts and folk 
dancing to the Girl Scouts, carry­
ing on the duties of a member of 
Phi Kappa Phi and of Mortar 
Board, entering, writing, painting, 
and still maintaining the high schol­
astic standing which has won for 
her the Carnegie Scholarship and 
the Founder’s Scholarship for two 
years.
How does she do it? How, we may 
well ask. There is within her an in­
tent and driving energy, an energy 
springing from deep social con­
sciousness and a unique awareness 
of the world about her, an energy 
which results in interests both in­
tense and diversified. Hers is a per­
sonality composed of wit and sin­
cerity, enthusiasm and organiza­
tion, friendliness and leadership.
Where will this compact energy 
be directed in the future? Toward 
industrial design and, in Irene’s 
own words, toward “the utilization 
of our present technical knowledge 
for the improvement of living and 
for making everyday existence 
more full and satisfying. It is the
job of the industrial designer (and 
this is still a quote) to translate and 
organize this technical knowledge 
into objects which will be used by 
the greater masses to improve their
environment and enrich their sen­
sory experiences.” This is her goal 
and she is already on her way.
In her free (?) time, Irene, a gre­
garious individual, may often be 
found enjoying a heated argument 
on Roosevelt, Poland, abstract art, 
or the merits of her brother’s news­
paper as compared to the New York 
Times, or perhaps she might be 
studying psychology (theoretical or 
practical) or listening to South 
American music. To conclude, for, 
in spite of her endless activities, we 
must conclude, it might be said that 
Irene Waichler is the Leonardo de 
Vinci of the Carnegie Institute of 
Technology.
Continued from page 2
Miss Garland moved that A.C.A.C. rec­
ommend to the publications that they in­
clude in their future budgets an alloca­
tion for an annual All-Publications Ban­
quet.
Motion carried.
NEW BUSINESS
Theta Tau requested permission from 
A.C.A.C. to hold a bridge tournament in 
the “Canteen.” The entry fee will be 75c 
per couple. Two cash prizes will be 
awarded: First prize, $10; second prize, 
$5. Any profit realized as a result of the 
bridge tournament will be used, to hold 
an all-school record dance which would 
be free to the students. A.C.A.C. moved 
that this request be tabled until Theta 
Tau had asked permission in the Dean’s 
Office to hold the bridge tournament in 
the “Canteen.”
Motion carried.
Women’s Dormitory Council petitioned
A.C.A.C. for permission to have a party 
for the freshmen dormitory girls on No­
vember 21 at Whitfield Hall between the 
hours of 6:30 and 8:00 p.m. As no budget 
for this affair was submitted, Mr. Pollock 
moved that A.C.A.C. table this request 
until the next meeting.
Motion carried.
Miss Garland moved that A.C.A.C. 
grant permission to the Sophomore Paint­
ing and Design Class to hold a costume 
party in Fine Arts Building, Room 411, 
Saturday, November ,11, from 8:00 to 
12:00 p.m.
Motion carried.
Adjournment.
Respectfully submitted,
Bernice Barclay,
Secretary.
C. S. EDMAN
PRINTER
6470 Monitor St. HA. 0193
DAY OR NIGHT 
NIGHT OR DAY
THE COFFEE SHOP
is ready to serve you a cold snack, a 
hot lunch, or a substantial meal.
EXCELLENT FOOD
MODERATE PRICES
Tech Service Men Especially Welcome
HOTEL 
WEBSTER HALL
4415 FIFTH AVENUE 
Opposite Mellon Institute
RODGERS
DAIRY STORES
MILK SHAKES
Made from Pure Whole Milk for 
only 15c
We Do Not Use Skim Milk.
NEAREST STORES LOCATED
------AT------
3905 FORBES STREBT 
Near Bouquet Street 
4619 CENTER AVENUE 
Near Craig Street
Dirt Colymn . . .
This is the dirt column—Ha. Ha! 
Just wouldn’t want to disappoint 
you lovely chilins — so here goes 
. . . Now, let’s see . . .
They tell us that “Arty” Schaf­
fer had quite a time last Saturday 
night. Could it have been-her date, 
Don Poskin, or other members of 
the party?
The wedding bells rang for Howie 
Etzell and Marty Jones. Congrats 
are yours, kids.
Could it be that Jerry Simpson, a 
new Delt pledge, has loads of “S. A.” 
or is it his bridge playing that at­
tracts the gals?
“Speedy” Fast is worried about 
the date for next week-end. She 
says—“I’ve never dated a boy with 
a mustache before.” Don’t worry, 
Doris, they’re fun.
If you look closely you will notice 
that Ben Schwartz no longer wears 
his Tau Delt pin. It went rather un­
obtrusively to Betty Rickman of 
Pitt. Treason!
Speaking of pins, a few weeks ago 
we mentioned that Paul Castner, 
DU, had pinned Helen Williams. 
Everyone knows of course that it 
should have been Helen Andrews. 
But after all when we think of 
Helen our mind is not on her name.
That blind date Saily Rosenberg 
had with a certain soldier was the 
talk of the canteen last week. How 
they met makes quite a story and 
since that hayride they’ve been 
seeing each other every night, it 
seems. But Sally still rushes over to 
Laurel Hall every noon to greet the 
mailman with his burden from 
Great Lakes. What can you make of 
that?
We drifted over to the Sadie 
Hawkins Day Hop at Allderdice 
last Friday night and who should 
we see there but Elek Weiss and 
Hermoine Rubin, dressed according 
to theme in plaid shirts, dungarees, 
carrying corn cob pipes. Quite a pic­
turesque couple.
No matter how they sing about it, 
we don’t agree that Danny Franks 
and Kate McKinney would make a 
“Peach of a Pair.” They’re just not 
built for each other.
Table Tennis Matches 
Will. Start Nov. 15
The Intramu’ral Board this week 
announced a proposed Table Tennis 
tournament for both singles and 
teams of doubles. Entries for this 
event must be in the Intramural of­
fice before five o’clock, Wednesday, 
November 15.
Especial interest will attend this 
year’s contest, as both the school 
champion and runner-up are still 
on campus since the last tourna­
ment. Dave Saylor, winner of last 
April’s bout is expected to perform 
in both the singles and doubles, as 
is Connie Corey, who lost in an in­
credibly close match. These stellar 
performers, in addition to the fresh­
man crop, promise to make this one 
of the most exciting ever held at 
Tech. Rush now, and get those en­
tries in! j
Students Donating Blood 
Excused For Two Hours
It was VOTED on recommenda­
tion of Director Daniels to permit 
students who are scheduled for ap­
pointments at the Red Cross Blood 
Bank on the three “Carnegie Tech 
Days,” Nov. 9, 10, 11, to be absent 
from class during the period of ap­
proximately two hours necessary 
for the fulfillment of an appoint­
ment.
Rev. Donald F. Campbell 
Addresses Chapel Today
The Chapel on November 7, 1944 
will present the following program: 
Reverend Donald F. Campbell, As­
sistant Pastor, Shadyside Presby­
terian Church, will speak on the 
subject, Where God Hides. The 
Chapel Choir will sing The Spirit 
of God by T. A. Humason, Elizabeth 
Barnhart, organist. The service is 
sponsored by Cwens.
SEEMILLER
DAIRY STORE
417 Craig St. 
Milkshakes and Sandwiches
lT< *V y* WRAP SECURELY
¦*fi ï
1 ADDRESS CLEARLY
SEND BEFOREDEC. 1st
You remember the law of physics that two objects cannot 
occupy the same space at the same time. Just so with war 
materials urgently needed at the fronts and personal pack­
ages. For that reason our Government has requested that 
all civilian Christmas packages be sent before Dec. 1st.
So we of Railway Express ask you to help us (and 
yourselves too) by doing these three simple things, in 
addition to shopping early:
1. Send your gifts before Dec. 1st. Laundry can 
keep to its regular schedule. When packages are 
ready to go, phone the Railway Express agent.
2. Wrap your packages carefully and securely.
3. Address them clearly, with your own and their 
recipient's name, street number, city and state.
NATION-WIDE RAIL-AIR SERVICE

---------------------------------------------------

4TELL CARNEGIE TARTANTUESDAY, NOVEMBER 7, 1944 \DEC .1std
Students Enjoy 
Halloween Party*
All of you people who were not 
at the Halloween Party at Margaret 
Morrison Recreation Hall last Sat­
urday evening certainly missed a 
good time. The apple bobbing con­
test was a riot; of course, the boys 
and girls nearly drowned one an­
other in the mad scramble for ap­
ples. Hugh Cochran came up with 
the most apples and won — of all 
things—a yo-yo.
The entertainment was fine, too. 
Little six-year-old Joan Gross did 
an acrobatic dance and a novelty 
tap dance. When *she sang “How 
Many Hearts Have You Broken,” 
she looked directly at a soldier sit­
ting in the front row. Bobbie Rush 
twirled a baton while tapping, and 
after the entertainment there was 
dancing to popular recordings. Re­
freshments were later served—ap­
ple cider, peanut brittle, doughnuts, 
and coffee.
Please keep in mind the next af­
fair, the Thanksgiving Dance, which 
will be held November 25. Watch 
the Plaid for further announce­
ments.
PefiAOMalUy
Last year you knew him as the 
President of the College of Engi­
neering; this year you know him 
as the Editor of the Plaid. Who? 
That amiable fellow with the win­
ning smile, Joe Rymar, of course.
Joe’s interests and responsibilities 
in Evening School have by far not 
been limited to these two offices. He 
has proven himself to be a willing 
and able worker, and has given his 
assistance in the handling of much 
of the work that arises in the func­
tioning of Evening School activi­
ties. During 1943-44, he served as 
Secretary of Evening Student Coun-
The Plaid
Editor 
Joseph M. Rymar
Newt Editor Mary de Marla Aaaoelate Editor«Ruth McGraw Arlene McMurray 
Pate edited by Ereninf School Stadeata of Car» necie Institute of Technology. All vlewa ot opinions expreaaed la editorial eelama are atl necessarily endorsed by tba Editorial Board »1 
the Day School 8talf.
Staff
Olive Baumgardner Elaine MartinFlorence Chorba Fran* Mihelich
Virginia Ehnl Dorothy PapaThelma Kitchen Milton RyanIrene Koemer Dorothy Shields
g. W. Mardnizyn Loit SchultzFred Vichich
Who was the ambitious lad who 
attempted to demonstrate to his ad­
mirers his engineering ability of the 
technical art of changing a light 
bulb last week in the Plaid office? 
The staff escaped with singed eye­
brows!
The scooper’s been snooping 
again. So! Heard Bill Kuskie pro­
claimed publicly that he would dis­
card his mustache if Dewey was de­
feated. Oh, no, Bill! Not that! It’s 
much too dashing to sacrifice!
If you’ve noticed some really at­
tractive posters on campus, you can 
compliment the guy responsible; 
namely, John Vranich. Take it easy, 
girls! This year you have a rare op­
portunity. Who said, “Opportunity 
knocks once?” If Leap Year itself 
has proved unsuccessful thus far, 
cheer up — Sadie Hawkins Day is 
coming up the home stretch.
So secrets are secrets, are they? 
What’s this “Did you, and didn’t 
you” business between Ginny and 
Steve? Steve says, “Secrets are only 
secret when they are kept.” But 
tell me, Ginny, who’s keeping 
them?
cil. Also, he is a member of Nu Sig­
ma Alpha Fraternity, and he has 
been re-elected Secretary of Sigma 
Delta Phi Fraternity.
Joe has been a student in the 
College of Engineering for eight 
years and is eagerly anticipating his 
graduation in 1950. At the present 
time, he is employed as a drafts­
man in the Motor Engineering De­
partment of Westinghouse Electric 
& Manufacturing Company at East 
Pittsburgh.
Most men are satisfied to have one 
“best girl”; but there are three girls 
who hold equal prominence in Joe’s 
life — his petite wife, Evelyn; his 
three-year-old daughter Diane: and 
his two-week-old daughter Nancy 
Jane. He has become an authority 
on fairy tales since Diane has de­
veloped an interest in them and in­
sists there is no better narator than 
her father. Secondary among his 
favorite past-times are sports — 
swimming, basketball, football, and 
golf.
Evening Students Invited 
To Submit News Items
Evening students desiring to 
write articles for the Plaid may 
either come to Room 232 in Indus­
tries Hall on Friday evening after 
classes, or write the article in their 
leisure time and drop it in the inter­
school mail slot, addressed to the 
Carnegie Plaid, Box 362. The post 
office is located next to the book 
store.
You can write about a friend or 
something which would be of inter­
est to students. News concerning 
former evening students no,w serv­
ing with the armed forces in the 
states or overseas is especially wel­
come.
Intramurals...
Continued from page 1 
was 22-17 in favor of the Wildcats, 
which is surprisingly close to the 
21-19 result in their first meeting. 
The game this time,' however, was 
as wide-open as any seen in the 
league, and neither team punted 
throughout. Eight pass interceptions 
were recorded in the first half, and 
dispute with the officials was plenti­
ful.
The Beta-TX game’ scheduled for 
the next day was forfeited to the 
TX’s due to the inability of the 
Betas to field a team.
Regardless of who won, it was a 
certainty that everyone who partic­
ipated had an enjoyable time. Cas­
ualties were light, and games spir­
ited. Some of the potential greats 
for each team showed their mettle, 
and often times to good advantage. 
For instance, the Betas boasted Bill 
Jones as best all-around player, sup­
ported by Fangs Herrmann, Windy 
Minor, and Paul Schucker. Their 
most loyal rooter was easily Clark 
Sloan, who watched the sticks at 
every game. The Delts, who had 
easily the best following in the 
league, showed Landau shooting 
skyrocket passes, Roby, Bradway, 
and Baney running after them until 
their tongues hung out, and pledge 
Rubino giving his all in leading 
spectator cheers. The TX’s flashed 
slick Dick Andre, Major George Ra- 
hall, Two-ton Ted Caridas, and Tig­
er Corey as a ferocious combination. 
They had fun, too. The winning 
KSAE’s stressed defense, manned 
by Ed Smuts, fat Cliff Mikus, Zeke 
Gillespie, and rooted for Bobby 
Skinkle and Gallopin’ Galvin Dunn. 
The Valley boys, known as the 
Wildcats, showed loud Mike Theo-
TURN OFTEN 
TO YOUR BANK FOR THE 
COUNSEL OF EXPERIENCE
MELLON 
NATIONAL BANK
MEMBER FEDERAL DEPOSIT 
INSURANCE CORPORATION
Let's go to
ISALY'S
MILK SHAKES 
BIG ICE CREAM COIN ES
KLONDIKES 
TASTY LUNCHES
Three Stores in the College 
District
5808 Forbes Street, Squirrel Hill 
3714 Forbes Street, Oakland
MAIN PLANT:
3880 Boulevard of the Allies
dore, Tasso Katselas, Ray Beacha, 
and Dmitri Yermack, while the 
team that probably had the most 
fun was the oft-trampled Blue 
Devils. Potentially they were good, 
boasting in the backfield Don 
Shaver, Wit Frangoulis, Ruben- 
field, Nymph Susini (the in­
visible halfback), and Chuck Kauf- 
field, while the line was bulwarked 
by speedy Ralph Happe, Lover 
Fleck, and Brute Bartemus. Any­
way, Professor Risedorph may be 
justly proud that the boys worked 
to keep the Intramural program go­
ing, and finished one of the most 
successful seasons the league has 
seen.
Blood Drive . . .
Continued from page 1 
cord the amount of registration as 
it climbs. A hundred percent en­
rollment is, of course, the goal that 
is desire. However, for various rea­
sons, some of the students are una­
ble to contribute their blood. In 
such cases, Mortar Board requests 
that the student try to get others to 
replace them. These substitutions 
will, nevertheless, be counted in 
both the group chart record and the 
thermometer rise.
“The Red Cross doesn’t believe 
that we can meet our quota,” says 
Rea Simon, head of the drive, “but 
we want to show that Tech can/”
WOODLAWN
PHARMACY
The Campus Drug Store 
SC. 6300 5200 Forbes St.
INFORMAL
DANCING
Every 
Saturday Night
Joey Sims 
Orchestra
85c per person
plus tax
Fort Pitt is the Place 
to Rent
TYPEWRITERS
ALL
MAKES
I | $3.00 per
MM! Month
FORT PITT
TYPEWRITER CO.
ATlantic 8320 
644 LIBERTY AVENUE
