è
Carnivai Schedule
VOL. 49—No. 25 CARNEGIE INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY TUES , MAY 1, 1956
Year’s Biggest Weekend 
Of Mischief Almost Here
Thursday, May 3, 1956
4:30 p.m.—Musical Mischief Midway Opens 
9:30 p.m.—Judging of Fraternity Booths
Friday, May 4, 1956 
10:00 a.m.—Sweepstakes Preliminary 
12:30 p.m.—Midway Opens 
1:00 p.m.—Coronation and Call Day on Flagstaff Hill 
2:00 p.m.—Sorority Competition on the Fine Arts Lawn 
3:00 p.m.—Faculty Egg Throw
8:30 p.m.—Jazz Concert (Claude Thornhill in the Gym)
12:00 p.m.—Midway Closes
Saturday, May 5, 1956
10:00 a.m.—Sweepstakes Finals 
12:30 p.m.—Midway Opens 
1:00 p.m.—Drama Department Cricket Match on the Fine Arts Lawn 
2:00 p.m.—Plank Jousting (beside the Union)
9:00 p.m.—Coronation Ball (Sauter-Finegan in the Gym)
11:00 p.m.—Intermission—Presentation of Awards 
12:00 p.m.—Musical Mischief Midway Closes
The campus is tuning up for Musical Mischief—this year’s version of Tech’s annual JThm^ i W* XXf 111 £*11
I Carnival. The Midway ODens Thursdnv at 4'30 with spvpral npw fpatnrps this vpar UM 0 l.jJ-IM M rr Iww w/9/M
At End Of This Year
Head Over Heels
Bobby Schultz and Ron Fritts dance to “When I am with You,’ 
one of the musical numbers from Scotch *n Soda.
Spring Carnival. The Midway opens Thursday at 4:30 with several new features this year 
—a new ride and a candy-making machine. Booth judging takes place at 9:30, appro­
priateness, effectiveness, and originality being the criteria.
Carnival activity start s* 
early Friday morning with 
0fren heats of the Sweep­
stakes preliminary and an 
eighth, as yet unexplained, 
heat. Midway opens at 12:30.
Call duty and coronation cere­
monies will be held at 1:00 on 
Flagstaff Hill, weather permit­
ting, in the gym if it doesn’t.
Dr. J. C. Warner will crown the.
•teen who will then officially 
•^en Spring Carnival.
Activity will then adjourn to 
Fine Arts Lawn where the sonor­
ity competitions will be held for 
the amusement of the queen and 
her court at 2:00. The faculty will 
pelt each other with eggs at 3:00 
in a competition to defeat the 
psychology department’s record 
egg toss last Carnival. Claude 
Thornhill will preside at a Jazz 
ffincert in the gym at 8:30. This 
™ent replaces the sparsely at­
tended street dance pf former 
Carnivals. The Midway with its 
noise and excitement, is expect­
ed to be especially Colorful this 
year with the lavish fraternity 
booths providing sharp contrast 
to the honk; -tonk Carnival mid­
way atmosphere.
Saturday morning begins early 
and we hope bright, though the 
Jj^trnivalites may not be after Fri- 
SeRy’s dance, at 10:00 with the 
Sweepstake finals. Midway comes 
to life at 12:30 with the continu­
ing theme of Carnival, recurring 
like a phrase of music throughout 
the weekend — shrieks, colors, 
lights, the noise of the shooting 
gallery, the bottom falling out of 
your stomach as the ferris wheel 
gains the top and starts down.
At 1:00 the drama department 
/jippears on the Fine Arts Lawn 
in grotesque array for the annual 
Cricket Match. At 2:00 Plank 
Jousting occurs beside Carnegie 
Union amidst mud, laughter and 
the chagrined looks of the defeat­
ed. Saturday night brings the for­
mal Coronation Ball, with Sauter- 
Finegan’s matchless blend of the 
modern jazz.
Tech's Director of Student Personnel and Welfare, Dr. Douglas 
F. Miner, will retire at the end of the present school year. He has 
been here at Carnegie since 1938. and has held his present posi- 
--------------------------------------------------------? tion for the past nine years.
S, Cl T . • Dr. Miner will make his per­il o innovation manent residence at Sherwood
| Forest, Maryland, and will do.
Ol Hound Mage consulting lor the air-arm divi-
_ i sion of Westinghouse Electric inPrOVeS Successful Baltimore. He will thus be return-
| ing to the company which made 
By Beth Liden it possible for him to fi ¿t come
From the moment the chorus | to Tech. Dr. Miner was chosen as 
broke into the opening title num- the first Westinghouse professor 
ber until ‘the grand finale regret- , Qf engineering when the profes- 
fully drew to a close the first sorship was established in 1938. 
night performance of this year’s j Engineering and Administration 
Scotch ’n Soda production, “Head j During his career, Dr. Miner 
Over Heels,” the audience v as in has been concerned chiefly with 
for a new experience in theater- ; two very opposite fields, engine- 
going. Seated around the stage, ! ering and engineering materials, 
everyone in the room had a close- and the teaching and admimstra- 
up view of the performers. Using tion of students. In both, he has 
a stage which was barren except , been exceptionally successful. He 
for only a few props, the show Was with Westinghouse Electric 
achieved its biggest effect through for 25 years, working up from re- 
tho correlation of colored lights search in strictly electrical areas
Jazz Concert Will 
Be Held In Gym
Claude Thornhill will play a 
jazz concert in the gym Friday 
night from 8:30 to 10:30, featuring 
such excellencies as his Gerry 
Mulligan arrangements. Wear
Spirited Campaign 
Ends And Queen's 
Court Announced
The results of Friday’s voting 
revealed that the five girls chosen 
for the Carnival Queen and her bermudas, sit on the floor ana be cour^ are j3ark Moore and Barb 
comfortable. Saturday night, of
course, it will be Sauter-Finegan 
and his 22-man, 99 piece orches­
tra with superb dance music. This 
comes as a surprise to those who 
have heard them at pops con­
certs. Some time during the eve­
ning, they will feature a special 
20 minute blast of their unique 
special effect arrangements that 
have made them famous. Awards 
will be presented at intermission, 
after the usual incomprehensible 
delay, for booth design, sorority 
and faculty competitions, and 
plank jousting. A ticket for both 
these events is really a steal at 
$5. They will be on sale in Skibo 
from 11:30 to 1:30 every day until 
Carnival. Get one this week; skip 
standing in line at the door.
Kerr of Delta Gamma, Sheila 
Graul and Janet McPeake of 
Kappa Kappa Gamma, and Shirley 
Wilson of Kappa Alpha Theta. 
One of these five will be crowned 
1956 Spring Carnival Queen at 
Call Day ceremonies this Friday 
at 1:00 p.m.
After the especially spirited 
campaigning which lasted all 
week, a total of 763 ballots were 
cast. Although it was specifically 
stated that write-in votes would 
not be counted, several did man­
age to get in. A certain Sue Starr 
received 29 fir«t place votes and 
enough others to give her a re­
spectable showing, but she still 
placed behind all the legal candi- 
[continued on page 12]
and costumes.
From the bright splash of the 
orange and red combination in 
“Halfway to Hell” to the stark
to manager of materials and pro­
cess engineering for the entne 
corporation. He held this las’ po-
_______^ ____ ______ _____ sition for ten years. During this
black and white contrast in “The i time he was somewhat involved
<CFP Elects Plugge Fall President
New CFP Officers
Left to right: Morgan Edwards, secretary; Bill Wilton, vice presi­
dent; Jim Plugge, president; Bob Garrison, treasurer; and Ken Lang, 
thief justice. Missing is John Kestner, P & IFRC representative.
? At the CFP meeting held on 
April 24, Jim Plugge of Beta 
Theta Pi was elected president 
for the coming semester. Jim is 
a junior printer, is a past presi­
dent of his fraternity, and is ac­
tive in several other organiza­
tions.
The new vice president, whose 
term of office is a full year, is 
Bill Wilton, president of Delta 
Tau Delta. The treasurer’s job, 
also lasting a year, will be filled 
by Bob Garrison, president of 
Sigma Nu. Morgan Edwards, of 
Sigma Nu, will serve as secretary 
for the coming semester, and John 
Kestner, ATO president, will be 
P & IFRC representative for the 
same term.
Ken Lang, president of Kappa 
Sigma, is the new chief justice. 
Other justices are Howard Sha­
fer, TX; Dick Smith, Beta Theta 
Pi; and Jon Saxe, Beta Sigma 
Rho, alternate.
[continued on pa$e 12 J
Simple Things,” the color scheme 
shows the mark of excellence. 
The type of sets and props used 
allowed one to use his imagina­
tion and to actually participate in 
the show.
Fast Pace
On the whole “Head Over 
Heels” moved at a fast pace, and 
the continuity was not disturbed 
unduly by the shifting of props 
between scenes. The numbers 
were quite refreshing, especially 
“The Men of Distinction.” and 
Frannie Jungk’s rendition of “I 
Need My Strength.” Residents of 
Morewood Gardens enjoyed the 
satire on dormitory food entitled 
“Tempest in a Cream Pitcher.” 
Some of the numbers seemed 
rather short, for just as one would 
get used to a number, it would 
be finished.
The choreography was excel- 
[contiTiued on page 12J
Drama School 
Offers Last Play, 
Hypochondriac
The last production of the 
drama department will be Mo- 
liere’s “The Hypochondriac” di-
with training programs for col­
lege graduates, so when he was 
given the opportunity to come to
Dr. Douglas F. Miner
Retiring This Year
Tech, he was glad to be abie to 
help train the engineers before 
graduation.
Dr. Miner taught electrical en­
gineering subjects and some his- 
rected by Peter Bucknell. The tory from 1938 until 1945, with 
play will be done .in the style of the exception of three years spent 
Cruikshank’s illustrations f o r ‘n the Army.
Dickens. Costumes are by Gary j 1945, he became assistant
Smith; settings by Peter Buck- j director of the College of E&S, 
nell and Lloyd Burlingame. 1 anc* two years later assumed his
The part of the hypochondriac recent position. In this capacity, 
will be played by David Walker,' he has been responsible for all 
his hypocritical - wife by Nanc3’ agencies affecting students out- 
Blumenthal, his good daughter s^e the classroom.
Angelique by Susan Becker, her Varied Education
lover Cleaute by Brooke Howard, After receiving an AB degree 
and the maid Towette who messes *n bioiogy and psychology from
and patches everything by Sylvia 
Dante. Dr. Diaforus and * his son 
Thomas will be played by James 
Goldswig and Tucker Ashworth, 
respectively.
“The Hypochondriac” opens 
Thursday, May 10 and runs to j 
May 19. Tickets will be available i 
in Fine Arts, room 100, Wecines- I 
day, May 2 at 4 p.m.
[continued on page 12]
Tickets
More ticket sellers are 
needed for Spring Carnival. If 
you are interested call Chuck 
Schaul at MU 3-0385.

---------------------------------------------------

Pafee4 2—^-CARNEGIE TARTAN—Tuesday, May 1, 1956
Sigma Nu presents a Chuck-a- 
Luck game, which is a gambling 
device in tune with their theme of 
“Guys and Dolls.” The Sigma Nu 
wish to emphasize that this is not 
a Chug-a-Lug game, a game which 
is played every party night, which 
some have gained too much skill 
in for it to be a fair game for 
prize competition.
Tau Delta Phi presents a booth 
that resembles a 650 IBM compu- 
tator. Their theme is “New Faces 
of 1956.” The game is a combined 
nerve tester race game that “ev­
eryone ought to get a charge out 
of.” It is billed as a baby of the 
electronics age.
Theta Xi—the theme is “Ca­
rousel,” the structure based on 
Mike Barna’s prize-winning (in 
the painting and design depart­
ment) design. It is a ring toss on 
mechanical animals.
Judging of the booths is on 
Thursday, May 3 from 9:30-10:30. 
The competition is stiff this year
New Brand Of Booth To Rise 
As Design Competition Stiffens
The trend this year in fraternity booths is bigger and more 
elaborate. They promise to surpass former costume and float parades 
in sumptuousness as there is now no practical limit to size. In designing 
floats or costumes there is always a limitation on weight and size.
A person or jeep can support only*---------------------------------------------------------
so much decoration without top­
pling. Booths,- however, being sta­
tionary structures, do not have 
this limitation, a face which the 
booth designers seem to have dis­
covered this year, judging by their 
descriptions of the booths.
Alpha Tau Omega—the theme 
is “Peter Pan.” there is mysterious 
talk of a “round floating disc” 
and the game is a Peanuts (the 
comic strip character) type block­
head game. No more information 
would be divulged.
Beta Sigma Rho is incorporating 
two booths into one design in a 
unique treatment of their theme 
of “Kismet.” The structure is bas­
ed or the style of architecture of 
the Taj Mahal and shelters a game 
of fish bowl toss and a wheel- 
number game with prizes.
Beta Theta Pi had little trouble 
incorporating their traditional 
Dunk - a - Beta into their booth 
theme of “South Pacific.” Sailors, 
island scenery, and a cocoanut 
game knocking the head off a 
stern commanding officer com­
plete the Beta booth.
Delta Tau Delta offers dancing 
girls, an Eiffel Tower, and prizes 
in their “Can-Can” booth.
Delta Upsilons contortion of 
their theme musical Fanny, comes 
out “You Bet Your Sweet ‘Fan­
ny’.” This is a roulette wheel run 
electrically. The DUs hope no­
body gets this far in debt over 
the game.
Kappa Sigma enters two games 
in the competition. The first is a 
gong and hammer game based on 
Cole Porter’s “Kiss Me Kate.” The 
second game is a shooting gallery 
based on “Golden Apples.” The 
Marquee is an artist’s and engi­
neer’s dream, beautiful and me­
chanical.
Phi Kappa is constructing a 
“Show Boat” with gaming tables 
and roulette wheels. The boat is 
three decks high but being ground­
ed, is not legally a gambling boat.
It’S within the shore line. If the 
weather is bad, we may have 
gambling after all, though, as the 
cut has been known to disappear 
under water during former Car­
nivals.
Pi Kappa Alpha brings back 
their dart game in a beautiful 
“House of Flowers.” Darts, birds, 
flowers and balloons are part of 
this display, but security precau­
tions prevented the PiKAs from 
telling how these are combined.
Sigma Alpha Epsilon’s “Boys 
from Syracuse” have constructed 
a Greek temple around their game 
of Skibol.
in the field of originality which 
counts for 25 points in the judg­
ing, so speculation is running high. 
The winner will be announced 
Saturday night at the dance inter­
mission.
Sorority Booths
Citcom’s theme is “Finian’s 
Rainbow” and their game is bowl­
ing. Sig Kaps have a basketball 
throw with prizes. Chi O, in line 
with their theme of Toyland, has 
concocted a game using water- 
guns. The Kappas’ “Stage Door 
Canteen” involves a leg ring toss. 
The Thetas’ “Court Jester” con­
sorts with the milkmaid in knock­
ing over milk bottles for prizes. 
DG’s “Annie Get Your Gun” con- 
trarily involves a game of bows 
and arrows, while AE Phi’s theme 
of “Guys and Dolls” is interpreted 
in a combination horse racing- 
dice game. Tri-Delts’ theme is 
“Pajama Game” and the game in­
volves shooting ping-pong balls 
from a gun.
In addition to an increased 
number of booths there will be a 
new ride this year. Called Dodge- 
em, the amusement consists of 
little electrical cars that go like 
mad and wham each other. The 
Kenn-Penn Amusement Company 
has again been contracted to pro­
vide the rides for the midway. As 
in the past, they arebringing a 
merry-go-round, ferris wheel, oc-
Tech And Kaufmans Cooperate 
In Annual Fabric Fashion Show
“Tech Fabric—Fashions on the Wing,” the Twenty - seventh 
Annual Carnegie Tech-Kaufmann Fabric Fashion Show was held on 
Saturday, April 28. 21 junior and senior clothing and textile majors 
and four junior home ec education majors modeled garments they 
had made in their classes. ?
After deciding what type of 
garment was best for each person, 
the girls chose a pattern or de­
signed a garment to fit these 
specifications. Kaufmann’s D e- 
partment Store then supplied fa­
bric for the garments.
The range of costumes modeled 
was as wide as the range of colors 
used. There was a four-piece 
sports ensemble designed for 
summer weekends and a bright 
silk print for after-five wear. A 
Chinese inspired sheath dress and 
coat of coordinated fabrics and a 
trim, tailored coat and matching 
skirt outfit are two more ex­
amples of the variety of patterns 
chosen. Among the many different 
printed fabrics used were a coin 
print, and a blue apple and green 
leaf print. The use of texture, 
especially in coats and jackets, 
was also interesting.
The tailored garments modeled 
by the education majors was an 
additional feature this year.
Credit for the success of the 
show goes largely to Miss Louise 
Bailey who directed it, and to 
Miss Elizabeth Ellett and Mrs.
Betty Saylor.
WRCT To Make 
Special Recordings 
During Carnival
WRCT plans to tape the high­
lights of Spring Carnival in 
hopes that Monitor and KDKA 
will use them. Another ambition 
of Tech’s radio station is to in­
crease its listening audience not 
only by improving its broadcast­
ing facilities but also by install­
ing transmitters on several local 
campuses.
The new executive board was 
elected April 12. Those elected 
are: Ron Abrams, station mana­
ger; Marshall Pihl, program di­
rector; John Russell, business 
manager; Ron Hess, chief operat­
ing engineer; Bill Carr, chief an­
nouncer; Fred Geil, chief radio 
engineer; Bob Best, chief audio 
engineer; Ed Glass, music co-or­
dinator; Don Kest, record mana­
ger; Vic Schmidt, special pro­
grams; Mike Clayton, advertising 
director; Carol Sampson, contin­
uity director; Jack Walker, per­
sonnel manager.
topus, tilt-a-whirl, and roll-o- 
plane, as well as the new Dodge- 
em. Also new this year s a gigan-
tic salt-water-taffy-making ma­
chine which promises “lots of ac­
tion.”
Complete New Stock of
WHITE DINNER JACKETS
—Also—
Midnite Blue "Tony Martin" Tuxedos 
HEAD TO TOE RENTAL SERVICE FOR THE SPRING CARNIVAL DANCE
SAM ROSS
‘7 Rent Tuxedos'
MU 2-7310124 OAKLAND AVE.
Hours: 8 A.M. until 6:30 P.M.
Evenings an<l Sunday by appointment
IN THE HEART OF OAKLAND
ATTENTION!
STUDENTS AND FACULTY
FORBES TRAVEL SERVICE
ALL INTERNATIONAL AND DOMESTIC AIRLINE, 
STEAMSHIP, RAILROAD AND BUS.
ALL RESORT AND COMMERCIAL HOTELS
YOU NEVER PAY MORE THAN THE 
ADVERTISED RATES THRU FORBES
FREE TICKET DELIVERY 
5800 Forbes St., Pgh. 17, Pa. (Sq. Hill) JA 1-7300
OnCamims
tAuthor of “Barefoot Boy ivitA Cheek" etc.)
withMaxfihulman
IT’S LATER THAN YOU THINK!
Ail year long you’ve been promising yourself to go 
there. Now summer vacation is just around the corner and 
you still haven’t set foot in the place. Shame on you!
But it’s not too late. Right now, this very minute, before 
you weaken, lift up your head and forward march to the 
place you have been avoiding ever since school began. I refer, 
of course, to the library.
you fin tied or jnytkino] *
Now here you are at the library. That wasn’t so bad, was 
it? Of coui'se not! Go inside. What do you see? A sign that 
says “No VOL.49—No 2L outside. Light a Philip Morris. 
Smoke. Go back inside.
Because now you are ready. Now your trembling 
resolution is rigid. Now your pulsing psyche is serene. You 
have been gentled by gentle Philip Morris. You have been 
tranquilized by a smoke that dotes and pampers and caresses, 
that lifts the fallen, repairs the shattered, straightens the 
bent, unravels the knotted, rights the askew, and fastens the 
unbuttoned.
In the center of the library you see the main circulation 
desk. Look in the card catalogue for the number of the book 
you want, write the number on a slip, and hand it to the 
efficient and obliging young lady at the desk. The efficient 
and obliging young lady then gives the slip to an efficient 
and obliging page boy who trots briskly back into the stacks, 
curls up on a limp leather encyclopedia, and sleeps for an 
hour or two. Then, puffy but refreshed, he returns your slip 
to the efficient and obliging young lady at the desk, who tells 
you one of three things: (a) “Your book is out.” (b) “Your 
book is at the bindery.” (c), “Your book is on reserve.”
Having learned that the circulation desk hasn’t the 
least intention of ever parting with a book, let us now go 
into the periodical room. Here we spend hours sifting through 
an imposing array of magazines—magazines from all the far 
corners of the earth, magazines of every nature and descrip­
tion—but though we search diligently and well, we cannot 
find Mad or Confidential.
Next let us venture into the reference room. Here in this 
hushed, vaulted chamber, we find the true scholars of the 
university — earnest, dedicated young men and women who 
care for only one thing in the world: the pursuit of knowledge.
Let us eavesdrop for a moment on this erudite couple 
poring over heavy tomes at the corner table. Hush! She 
speaks:
V5CA Whatcha readin’, hey?
RCA “The Origin of Species.” You ever read it?
V5CA No, but I seen the movie.
RCA Oh.
V5CA ELG like leadin’?
RCA Naah.
V5CA What do you like?
RCA Hockey, licorice, girls, stuff like that.
V5CA Me too, hey.
RCA You pinned or anything?
V5CA Well, sort of. Pm wearin’ a fellow’s motorcycle 
emblem.... But it’s only platonic.
RCA Wanna go out for a smoke?
V5CA Philip Morris?
RCA Of corris!
And as our learned friends take their leave, let us too wend 
our way homeward —a trifle weary, perhaps, but enlightened 
and renewed and better citizens for having spent these happy 
hours in the library. Aloha, library, aloha! ©Max shuiman, 195«
The makers of Philip Morris, who sponsor this column, could write 
volumes about the gentleness of toduy’s Philip Morris, but ire’ll 
only tell you this: Take a leaf from our book. Enjoy Philip Morris.
\\\
$

---------------------------------------------------

Sorority queen campaigns were elegant and eventful this year 
the seven sororities and the printing management school pushed 
tHeir candidates for Spring Carnival queen. The campaigns took place 
all last week, when the sorority girls served dinner at the fraterni­
ties, posted pictures, mobiles and posters over the campus, and per­
formed in brief colorful costumes for the entire Tech male population.
Aside from the routine skit performances in Skibo, dorms, and 
fraternities, the campaigners thought up a number of stunts to attract 
attention and win votes. Not the least of these was he arrival of a 
fire truck on the campus to promote the Delta Gamma queen candi- 
dAtes.
At the top left, Sue Starr wins votes for herself and for Cyrus, 
the printing management candidate for queen. left center, Sheila 
Graul and Janet McPeake, the Kappa candidateSj take a bow in 
Skibo. Barb Kerr, DG, gives a come-hither look to the audience. Two 
days later she and^ her running mate, Barb Moore, were kidnapped^ 
during the More wood rally.
Sue Armstrong and Mimi Walsh, the Chi O candidates, are at top 
center, and next to them, top right, Shirley Wilson and Teena Stern, 
the charming Theta candidates. Rachel Katzin leads thz. AEPhi skit, 
W^-ter, and center right the Sig Kaps do a take-off on a cigarette ad. 
Tri-Delts play sleepy time with their pretty candidates, Nancy Medis 
and Mary Tinker, bottom center, while at the lower right, the Kappa 
Kore struts beside the ROTC during Thursday drill.
$ al four
your fraternity jeweler
Tuesday, May 1, 1956—CARNEGIE TARTAN—Par« *
GSIA To Hold 
Refresher Course 
For Executives
Addresses by Earl P. Stevenson, 
board chairman of Authur D. Lit­
tle, Incorporated, and G. L. Bach, 
dean, Graduate School of Indus­
trial Administration, will high­
light the May 4 and 5 reunion 
program of Carnegie’s special 
“Program for Executives.”
Executives of three local firms, 
L. Burgess, Chicago district 
, Westinghouse Electric 
Corporation; John W. Price, Jr., 
assistant general superintendent 
of U. S. Steel Corporation, Du- 
quesne Works; and Franklin 
Strain, director of Columbia 
Southern Company, Barberton 
Laboratories, will also present 
talks during the two day meet. 
Mr. Stevenson, chief executive of­
ficer of one of the nation’s out­
standing consulting firms will dis­
cuss “Technological and Man­
agerial Innovation.” Dean Bach 
will analyze “The Economic Out­
look.”
Messrs. Burgess and Price, Wal­
ter E. Davis, director and vice 
president, Inlander Container Cor­
poration, and Holeman Everett, 
financial vice president, Victor 
Chemical Works, will discuss the 
near term business outlook in 
their respective industries.
Mr. Strain; Carl L. Pollock; as­
sistant to the president, Mansfield 
Tire and Rubber Company; Joseph 
A. Poremba, factory manager, 
Thompsons Products, Incorporat­
ed; and Donald E. Kearney, assist­
ant to the vice president, Imperial 
Tobacco Company of Canada, 
Limed, will discuss “Carnegie’s 
Program for Executives — Two 
Year Perspective.”
Executives from all points of the 
United States and foreign coun­
tries will participate.
Use Spalding-made tennis balls. They’re offi­
cial for more major tournaments than all other 
brands combined.
Year’sBi
SETS THE PACE IN SPORTS
Advantage, You
You’ll make more fine shots with these rackets 
than any in their class.
The reason? Both the Spalding .ILSTUFH 
and the Spalding-made Wright & Ditson YU,4M 
16hH deliver the “feel” you must have for full 
power and better control.
Both come in every weight and grip size for 
better tennis, match after match.

---------------------------------------------------

Page 4—CARNEGIE TARTAN—Tuesday, May 1, 1956
What’s doing
at Pratt & Whitney 
Aircraft
Today’s leadership ... a 
reflection of policies established 
in aviation's infancy
Back in The Roaring Twenties, the magic dream pictured Ameri­
can families someday using the light personal airplane as freely as 
the family car. Among the realists, however, was a handful of men 
who were unshakable in their conviction that the real future of 
aviation lay with bigger aircraft, higher speeds, greater ranges — 
all possible only through engines of higher power and more relia­
bility than those of that era.
In the spring of 1925, six of these men of vision founded a 
company in Hartford to undertake the development of a new air­
craft engine — an air-cooled type. The year’s end heralded their 
first success — Pratt & Whitney Aircraft’s "Wasp”.
This talented group of men continued to improve their power- 
plant designs, developing engines of steadily mounting power that 
operated efficiently and dependably. They contributed much to 
aviation’s progress — so much so that currently three-quarters of 
the world’s commercial airliners and many of our nation’s first line 
military aircraft are P & W A-powered.
Today's P & W A powerplant designs are supported by the 
very finest research facilities and equipment, and a technical staff 
that is continually being strengthened. That nucleus of six men has 
grown into’ one of the world’s leading engineering organizations. 
Yet to this very day, engineering achievement at Pratt & Whitney 
Aircraft is guided by its founders’ simple policy . . . the best air­
planes can be designed only around the best engines.
Unscheduled Rally rnoto Dy Mcuermou
This is a real action shot made by an on-the-spot tree-climbing 
photographer of Thursday night’s huge rally on Morewood Avenue. 
Close scrutiny will reveal several Queen candidates in the mob.
Pre-Carnival 
Week Features 
Many Stunts
. *
Carnival Queen campaigns this
year outdid the '55 campaigns in 
unusual incidents and publicity 
stunts. The stunt that gained by 
far the most attention was the 
unscheduled printers’ skit in Ski- 
bo on Wednesday. After the last 
sorority presentation, emcee Le­
roy Miller treated the crowd to 
some choice jokes and mono­
logues. This was interrupted by 
the apearance of a gentleman os­
tensibly a member of the faculty 
of the printing management 
school.
This gentleman apologetically 
explained that the printers had a 
candidate named Cyrus who had 
planned to appear. However, Cy­
rus had another speaking engage­
ment, and a substitute had been 
procured. The rest of the story is 
now history. It is not known 
exactly how Miss Sue Starr may 
have felt for being introduced as 
a substitute for a dog, but the un­
precedented rafter-shaking which 
ensued should have dispelled her 
doubts.
Some New Ideas
Sororities attracted enough at­
tention of their own. The Kappa 
Kore marched in formation past 
all of the assembled ROTC cadets, 
and then joined the regiment in 
drill, and the DG firefighters 
showed up with a real live fire 
truck, complete with policemen, 
firemen, and two dalmatians. Not 
to be outdone, the Thetas served 
lunch in skibo, dressed in their 
campaign costumes.
Two sororities had plans for 
having their candidates kidnap­
ped by anon3rmous raiders in a 
black car with hopes that great 
crowds would join in the chase 
and thus be lured away from the 
other girls. One set of candidates 
was actually captured and hustled 
off, but the kidnappers were so 
professional that no one saw 
them. Their sorority sisters didn’t 
even know the girls were miss­
ing. . Unfortunately they missed 
the huge rally in front of More- 
wood. The rally probably was 
planned by almost every sorority, 
but the ones who actually got it 
going first were the Thetas. A band 
appeared out of nowhere and the 
candidates danced and sang in the 
street until about 11 p.m. The 
next morning the only evidence 
of the previous nights high spirit 
was a “Keep Pittsburgh Clean” 
trash can reposing atop the foun­
tain in Morewood pond.
OPPORTUNITIES IN -• 
OPERATIONS RESEARCH
. . . FOR SENIORS and 
GRADUATE STUDENTS 
in ENGINEERING, PHYSICS, 
and MATHEMATICS . . . 
Current Staff Vacancies at
The Johns Hopkins University
Operations Research Office, 
in Washington, D. C., 
operating under c.ntract with the De- 
lartment of the Army, provide excep­
tional opportunities for graduating seniors 
nd grad uate students in the rapidly ex - 
tanding and increasingly important career 
ield of OPERATIONS RESEARCH.
These positions will appeal to student- 
cientists who prefer the challenge of 
onplex operational problems of unusual 
cope and diversity to routine analysis 
tad development work, and who desire 
i degree of research freedom not or- 
linarily found ia industrial positions.
Our current research program includes 
irablems in tactics, strategy, weapons 
ystems, intelligence, communication*, 
ogistirs, and military applications of 
.aase theory. Studies in these areas »re 
lormally carried on by mixed teams of 
-eientists, each of whom is expected to 
oatribute as a specialist to a synthesised 
elution.
Among the many other attractions and 
¿vantages of working at ORO are: 
...Selected opportunities for two-year 
• verseas assignments ia Germany or 
Japan.
. .. Liberal employee benefits and leave 
privileges.
..Rapid advancement for demonstrated 
capabilities. A competitive salary 
•cale.
ifoar inquiries are invited.| Write to: 
Dr. Lincoln Haasos,
Research Personnel OBcei,
51»« Coaaecticut Avenue 
Cbevy Chase 15, Maryland 
>r arrange for aa interview with ••» 
tcpreceMtative, who will vloit the campus
MAY 2
World’s foremost 
designer and b udder 
of aircraft engines
PRATT & WHITNEY 
AIRCRAFT
DIVISION OF UNITED AIRCRAFT CORPORATION 
¦ AST HARTFORD S, CONNECTICUT
Faculty Promotion 
Effective In Fall 
Made By Warner
The following faculty promo­
tions, effective September 1, 
1956, have been announced by 
President J. C. Warner: In E&S, 
Charles Law McCabe has been 
appointed associate professor of 
metallurgical engineering.
Three appointments have been 
made in the Division of Human­
istic and Social Studies. They are: 
Beekman Waldron Cottrell, to as­
sistant professor of English; Rob­
ert Leslie Daniel, to assistant pro­
fessor of history; and Edwin Fen­
ton, to assistant professor of his­
tory. John Barney has been pro­
moted to assistant j>rofessor of 
printing management, and George 
Jackson Mills to associate profes­
sor of printing management. In 
the Graduate School of Industrial
Administration, Charles Carter 
Holt has been appointed to as­
sociate professor of economics and 
Enrique Lerdau to visiting pro­
fessor of economics.
From Fine Arts, Eugene Chris­
tian Eicher. will be assistant pro­
fessor of violoncello; William Ait- 
ken Nelson, associate professor oi 
stage lighting and technical prac­
tice; and Paul Berget Trautvetter, 
assistant professor of drama. Hor- 
tense Scannell Pearson, of Mar­
garet Morrison has been pro­
moted to assistant professor of 
secretarial studies
In addition to his appointments 
as associate professor of metal­
lurgical engineering and assistant 
head of the department of metaH 
lurgical engineering, Professor Jo-* 
seph W. Ludewig has been ap­
pointed assistant dean of graduate 
studies and assistant director of 
! the metals research laboratory, ef- 
I ffective July 1, 1956.
The Original Wasp, the first P & W A engine — designed, 
fabricated and assembled in less than seven months. Weigh­
ing under 650 pounds and officially rated at 410 horse­
power, this lightweight, air-cooled radial engine was a 
milestone in aviation history and set the pattern for almost 
three decades of record-breaking advances. »
The Double Wasp, an 18-cylinder, two-row piston engine 
rated at 2400 horsepower for basic use. Its rating increased 
by water injection to 3400 horsepower, the Double Wasp 
was instrumental in turning many a military crisis into an 
aerial victory in the decisive battles of World War II.
The Wasp Major, a 28-cylinder engine with pistons arranged 
in four rows of seven each and a 3800-horsepower rating. 
Its power and performance having never been equalled, the 
Wasp Major represents the apex of the art of building 
reciprocating engines.
The J-57 Turbojet, first jet engine in history to be officially 
rated in the 10,000-pound-thrust class. In quantity produc­
tion since early 1953, the J-57 has continuously undergone 
progressive development. It gives every indication of having 
almost unlimited growth possibilities.
The Enfines of Tomorrow, advanced jet, turboprop, and nuclear. 
Already in various stages of development, these aircraft 
engines of the future will further contribute to the long 
history of leadership that Pratt & Whitney Aircraft has 
established in the ¿eld of aviation.

---------------------------------------------------

Tuesday, May 1, 1956—CARNEGIE TARTAN—Page 5
The prizes offered for the pap 
include $150 for first place, 1 
second prizes of $75 each, and 1 
$25 third prizes. Only three 
the five awards need be presen 
however, at the discretion' of
one time the Spring Carnival j
Spring Carnival Past 
Reveals Many Changes
By Pat Mitchell
Many traditions centering around Spring Carnival come and go, 
ppnjoying only a brief popularity of several years, but the tradition 
of Spring Carnival itself is so much a part of campus life that May 
without Spring Carnival would not truly be May. The first Spring 
Carnival was celebrated as Cam-^--------------------------------------------------------
pus Week in 1920 and consisted ; 
mainly of athletic events, depart­
mental exhibitions, concerts and 
a dignified parade across campus.
No Campus Week was held—this 
was the compromise reached.
Carnival returned in a small 
way the next year. Much to every-
In 1921, the spirit of Campus one’s relief, students were not 
Week changed drastically. The banned from campus that week, 
Pushmobile races, which had been 1 nor were alumni; Carnival gradu- 
Jheld in comparative seriousness ally gained stature with age and 
"the first year were given a new hallowed with tradition, 
ruling, that midway in the race! Some Carnival highlights since 
each buggy had to stop and change ! then have been: 1937—Gidas ad- 
the left rear wheel to the right ‘ vertised corsages for Spring Car- 
side and vice versa. In 1921, ac- n*val $1.00, 1940 Glenn Miller
cording to the Thistle, “two or-1 Played for the Saturday night 
chestras alternated (at the dance),! dance> Scotch ’n Soda bragged, 
confetti flowed, flappers flapped, i S ’n S can soon afford to tear 
streamers streamed, and a good down the Cathedral of Learning 
time was had by all ” i and use the lot to build a perma-
By 1922, Carnival was a real ment theatre’ a girls’ buggy race 
¿-blast. The emcee for Call Day ™ .heJ* ,!?aby buggies the 
competed with “four trucks, five 1 babies being 18 years old and upwth bonnets and bottles.
At
Queen was crowned as a p«» ». 
Scotch ’n Soda’s show.
wagons, and a few noisy citizens 
from the Appian Way”—wonder 
what '•treet that was? A huge 
costume party was held on Sat­
urday night to which Rudolph 
Valentino-Theda Bara type cos­
tumes were worn. After the dance, 
Cf* a slumber party was held in the 
gym for girls living offi «campus. 
The musical production of the 
year, a comedy written by one of 
the drama students, was censured 
by the Thistle for being “replete 
with more than the usual amount 
of profanity.”
1924 was the year everybody 
wrote verse and it was inevitable 
that Spring Carnival would also 
. be efflicted. The Thistle recorded 
that Campus Week “With its free­
dom and joy, it sure peps up a boy 
as no other soft drinks do.” A mi- 
-gratory dance on Friday was a 
feature of the 1926 Carnival. The 
dance started at the Union, and 
roamed all over the Campus. This 
was a very, gay year. To give an 
idea of how gay—a Post-Arts Ball 
was held the night after the Arts 
Ball.
Nasty Carnival weather was first 
recorded in 192T, by which time 
the Sunday athletic events of the 
first Campus Week had definitely 
lost ground to hangovers and slow 
recovery as revelry gained in im­
portance. No Carnival was held 
the following year because the 
alumni wished to ban students 
from Campus Week, while the stu­
dents wished to ban the alumni.
Winner Of Essay 
Contest To Receive 
Call At Carnival
The winners of the Alumni 
Fund Prize for essays on com 
munity problems will be announce 
ea at Call Day Friday afternoon. 
Professor Charles W. Paape of the 
history department will represent 
the humanistic and social studies 
of judges in making the
the papers 
two 
two 
of
be presented, 
at the discretion of the
The range of subjects, on com­
munity or governmental problems, 
is impressive. Topics include dif­
ficulties of building high schools 
in Beaver, racial antagonisms in 
Peekskill, N.Y. as a result of the 
Robeson riots there a few years 
ago, the problem of racial inte­
gration in relation to public hous­
ing, the urban blight in Wilkins- 
burg, the Long-Shoreman’s Asso­
ciation and reform efforts in New 
York, the water supply problem 
with special reference to New 
Jersey, accidents on super high 
ways, and the range of problems 
posed by automation.
Eight in Finals
Eight contestants were admit 
ted to the final competition on 
the basis of preliminary entries 
submitted February 15. Eight is 
the maximum number of final­
ists provided for in the rules. All 
the finalists met the deadline on 
April 20 with completed essays, 
says.
Two teams of two students 
each have entered the competi­
tion beside the six individual con­
testants. Both freshmen and soph 
omores as well as upper class­
men, entered the contest with two 
papers submitted from each of the 
under classes.
The judges of the essay contest 
were chosen by the heads of the 
four H & SS departments and in 
elude Dr. Lester Beattie of the 
English department, Dr. Charles 
Paape, history, Edward Hollander, 
psychology, and Dr. Murton Mil­
ler, economics. Dr. Ward, head of 
the history department, is coor­
dinator of the contest.
Human Interest 
Notes From New 
S ’n S Production
By Marshall Pihl
Seven-fifteen, an hour before 
Sunday night’s final dress re­
hearsal, found about twelve peo­
ple in the Gym, adding the final 
touches to an amazing transforma­
tion that happens there every year 
at Spring Carnival time. Some 
were eating supper (provided by 
S ’n‘ S), there were musicians do­
ing last-minute work on the score, 
and sound engineers were trying 
to get the pops and squealS out 
of the PA system.
And there was one very lone- 
looking girls, perhaps suffering 
from “magic time” jitters, sitting 
most sedately in a front row. With 
her arms folded in her lap, she 
silently watched the proceedings 
and heard the mixed chorus of 
shouts, queries, instructions and 
complains. There was a warm, 
musty smell in the air of the gym- 
turned-theatre.
Costumes 
A half-flight down the stars to­
ward Black Cat Lounge, we found 
-the costume room. There, also, 
was Mike Pollock, who was ap­
plying glue and sparkle to Anne 
Antrim’s costume for “The Story 
of a Dream.” This was one of more 
than one hundred costumes that 
Mike and her crew had tc create 
for “Heads Over Heels.” The job, 
[continued on page 7]
SIEGMAN BROS.
Formal Wear For Rent
Nothing to Buy, Just Stop In and 
Register to
Win Free A Handsome New 
“First Nig Ii ter” Formal Suit
(Free Parking in Rear of Building)
3520 FIFTH AVENUE
(ACROSS FROM FALK CLINIC)
MUseum 1-8712 - MUseum 2-8712
Evenings By Appointment 
No Forfeit Required
Mortar Board 
To Tap Girls 
By Surprise
Mortar Board will serenade 
Morewood “after hours’ ’tonight. 
Dressed in black gowns and mortar 
boards with gold tassels, the chap­
ter will follow the serenade with 
a march through the dorm to 
claim new members by surprise. 
The new Mortar Boards will be 
taken downstairs for a quick mid­
night snack of coke and cookies, 
and .will wear caps to class on 
Wednesday!
Mortar Board is the senior 
women’s honorary, for which 
members are chosen by the criteria 
of leadership, scholarship, and 
service. Uvder the constitution,
between five and 25 incoming sen­
iors may be elected each year. This 
year has been one of the most ac­
tive in the organization’s history. 
Annual projects are managing 
Homecoming and Spring Carnival 
in cooperation with ODK, rais­
ing funds for two scholarships for 
senior women, and hostessing at 
orientation and graduation func­
tions. This year, in addition to 
these tasks, Mortar Board initiated 
the plans for the Leadership Con­
ferences, and worked with ODK to 
formulate the rough draft of the 
new Student Government Consti­
tution.
Mortar Board scholarships will 
be announced at Call Day, and the 
Calls for MB will be repeated at 
that time. Also, they wTill enter a 
buggy in the Sweepstakes Pre­
liminaries.
SPRING IS SPRUNG!
CARRY YOUR MUSIC WITH YOU 
Invest in a new portable radio at
Wood lawn Pharmacy
•A Campus-to-Career Case History
Dick Walsh (right) discussing carrier equipment which will provide 
many additional long distance circuits out of Philadelphia.
There’s opportunity in a growing company"
As an Engineer in the Transmission 
Section of Bell Telephone Company of 
Pennsylvania. Richard M. Walsh plans 
for the future.
“Our group’s responsibility.” says 
Dick, ‘‘is to see that we have sufficient 
facilities to handle present and future 
needs. Telephone usage is growing every 
year, and we keep up with this growth 
by keeping ahead of it.
‘"For instance, to meet the increasing 
demand for communication circuits in 
our area. Ave’re adding 70.000 new chan­
nel miles this year alone, at a cost of 
$3,500,000. Laying new cable isill give 
us 40,000 of those channel miles, and 
we 11 get the other 30,000 through use of 
carrier equipment, which lets us send a
number of long distance calls on each 
pair of wires simultaneously.
“Thus, though a cable might ha\e only 
300 pairs of wires, we can, w ith carrier, 
make it carry over 3000 telephone calls 
at one time. Using carrier equipment to 
get extra circuits out of cable—which is 
expensive to make and lay—is an example 
of how we engineer to give high-grade 
service at the lowest possible cost.
“Before I graduated from college I had 
interviews with twenty-eight companies. 
Out of all these 1 chose the telephone 
company because it had the most to offer 
in the way of interesting work, training 
and opportunity. This certainly turned 
out to be true. In a growing business 
your opportunities grow, too.”
Dick Walsh graduated in 1953 from the University of 
Delaware with a B.S. in Mechanieat Engineering. There 
are many interesting career opportunities in other Bell 
Telephone Companies, and in Bell Telephone Labora­
tories, Western Electric and Sandia C orporation, lour 
placement officer can give you more information about 
all Bell System Companies.
Telephon
System

---------------------------------------------------

Page 6—CARNEGIE TARTAN—Tuesday, May 1, 1956
Editorial-
Are Bigger 
Carnivals Better?
LITTLE MAN ON CAMPUSby Dick Bibler
Can Carnival get any bigger? Every 
year after Carnival this question is asked, 
and inevitably the following spring brings 
the affirmative answer. Last week’s queen 
campaigns were indicative of this, while 
rumor has it that fraternity booths this year 
are going to outdo any float that ever parad­
ed up Forbes Street. Friday morning will 
reveal what latest innovations for speed have 
been devised by the fraternities.
The expense alone has reached new 
heights this year, with several of the fra­
ternities paying over a hundred dollars for 
buggy wheel bearings from Switzerland.
The booth displays, including miniature 
(and not so miniature at that) Tajmahals 
and moving carousels, have been planned 
since Thanksgiving and are costing over $500 
for some fraternities. The sororities spend a 
comparatively small $50 for costumes and 
publicity and $150 for pictures.
It’s not that we want to cut down Car­
nival. If nothing else, we like to show off 
to the alums and our rivals that we’re a 
clever and spirited school. But is this all we want? The 
weekend should be a time of fun and relaxing before the last 
couple of weeks of intense grind. And hyperfatigue, poor 
grades, and a few hundred dollars don’t always add up to 
a relaxing good time.
A lot may be said in favor of extravagant Carnivals, and 
often is. However, there is more evidence to back the 
equally oftenheard argument that it is the keen competition 
which forces the fraternities into the extravagant expendi­
ture of time and money. That this competitive spirit finds 
outlet only two or three times a year may account for its 
intensity. (We’re fortunate, however, in that our rivalry here 
at Tech never exceeds bounds of friendly competition; at 
least one school we know follows up their Greek Sing with 
fist fights, not only between fraternities, but between fathers 
and alums). It may be also that precedent is one of the 
stimuli. If competition were minimized for at least four years, 
there might be some hope for less acceleration. This year’s 
seniors still remember the float parade. This may be one 
cause of the magnificent proportions of the booth display 
this year.
The question is are we getting what we’re aiming for 
with bigger and better carnivals every year? The competi­
tions—queen campaigning, booths, whatever—strengthen the 
spirit of the fraternities, and may be enjoyed by the entire 
Tech community. The dances and the rides, however, are 
not and cannot be appreciated in their proper proportion 
because of the distorted importance of the competitive aspect 
of the weekend. Carnival is essential to the spirit of the 
school, and the contests are a large factor in promoting this 
spirit. But do they need to become excessive? If we shifted 
the emphasis from the competition to the enjoyment of Car­
nival, we might find that last stretch of school less difficult 
and we might be a lot richer in both money and health.
I "WHADDAYA ME AM MY PAFFR. AIN'T HANDED IN PROPERLY”
YER LUCKr YA EVEN 60T A PAPER."
OFFICES: Carnegie Union, 5075 Forbes Street, Pittsburgh IS, Pa. Office phone, 
MU 2-4557; Managing Editor, MU 2-8897; Executive Editor, MU 2-9846; Advertis­
ing Manager, MU 2-8851. Published weekly during the school year except holidays 
and examination periods by the students of Carnegie Institute of Technology, 
PitUburgh 13. Pa.
Mau{in( Editor .............................................................................................Stephanie Mackay
Executive Editor ..............................................................................................................Robert Russell
Associate Editor ......................................... ........................................ .......................Marjo King
Associate Editor .............................................................. ............... .......................Richard Fox
Easiness Manager ........................................................................Martin Ostroff
News Editor—Ann Forest, Sports Editor—Robert Hoppe, Copy Editor—Edwin Rogers, Assistant Business Manager—Robert Sorkin, Advertising Manager—Robert Peters, Cirealation Manager—Harley Bernbach, Secretary—Joan Seidel.
Reporter*—Evelyn Alessio, Bob Jack, Sally Day. Lynn Porter Carman, Betsy Kuhn. En Harriet Chang, Pat Mitchell, Lois Griffin, Barbara Hoenstine, Joan Cop- rich, Anna Hatzfeld, Susie Stryker, Grayce McAllister. Fay Fisher, Carol Sooby. Nancie Redpath, Gene Anderson, A1 Federowicz, Arthur Marino, Lu Fields, Beth Liden. Feature» Staff—Luis de la Macorra, Marshall PihL Sports Staff—Dick Swaney. Don McClelland. Tom Beig, Fried Heider. Photographers—John Philbrick, John Alexander. Art Staff—Dave Stea. Copy Staff—Bill Mowry, Ed Holsten,
Jack Walker. Office Staff -Mary Langdon, Anne Barnes. Cirealation Staff—Ira Le­
vine, Jerry Kreuzer. Advertising Staff—Herbert Kreindler, Alan Hodel, Myron 
Wagmeifcter, A1 Goldstein.
Entered as second class matter on Oc«>t>ei 4. 1007. at the Port Office at
Pittsburgh. Pa. undei act of March 3. 1879 Accepted for mailing at speclaJ 
rate« of postage provided for In the act of February 28. 1923.
Member of the Associated Collegiate Press.
Represented foi national advertising by National Advertising. Inc. College
year.
Pitt Carnival
Editor, the Tartan:
I would like to take this opportunity to invite 
your student body to the University of Pittsburgh 
annual spring festival, “Misbehavin’-on-Avon.” The 
dates for the Festival this year are May 7-12. It 
will begin with a soap box derby Monday afternoon 
on the Tech course. Tuesday night the carnival 
will begin. This year it is entitled “Great Axe of 
Shakespeare” and will be highlighted by shows, 
bopths, and other interesting features. Wednes­
day afternoon will find the women students com­
peting in “Cordelia’s Capers,” a sort-of women’s 
Olympics. On Saturday night, the culmination of 
the entire Festival week will be reached at Syria 
Mosque where “Capulet’s Caper” will be held, the 
dance where all the awards will be made. Inci­
dentally, the feature attraction at this dance will 
be the Hilltoppers, popular recording artists.
I would appreciate it if you would publish this 
list of events to the end that we will have a rep­
resentation from your University at “Misbehavin- 
on-Avon.” Thank you for your cooperation.
Sincerely yours,
Tedd Tabachnick, Chairman 
Publicity Committee
Notas De Un Oyente
By Luis de la Macorra
Poor Marshall Pihl, besides being a lousy writer, 
he also behaves like a nine year old child. If any­
one read his column last week, (aside from Mar­
shall Pihl, his mother, and me) he will easily 
understand why I made the above statement. The 
arrangement that Pihl made of my name is the 
most childish thing that any human being could 
thinkup.
Last week I made the statement that Mr. Pihl 
does not have material for his column, and then he 
proved it himself. It is a well known trick among 
newspaper writers to include a poem or a picture 
so as to use up space. Last week Mr. Pihl did 
both. He dug up a lousy photograph for his column 
and on top of this he arranged my name in column 
form just to fill space in his pig-pen.
I personally would not mind it so much, but 
after all, he is just thinking up lies about me 
and what is more, he dares print them too, and I 
can’t certainly permit that. This is the reason 
why the proper name for Mr. Pihl should not be 
Marshall, but one that would undoubtedly question 
the legitimacy of his birth.* * *
It is a very interesting thing to see how year 
by year the fraternities and the sororities strive 
for a greater and bigger competition during Spring 
Carnival. A few days ago, I was looking over some 
photographs of the booths and buggies from past 
years. Some of those old soap boxes beside this 
year’s buggies, look like a model T beside a Lin­
coln Continental Mark II. And #ome of those shabby 
shacks beside this year’s booths look like Skibo 
beside the United Nations building. From all this, 
I just have one thing to say, all the people that 
have something to do with any part or competition 
during Spring Carnival, winners or losers, deserve 
a big hand.me *
Before I wish all of you a very happy Spring 
Carnival weekend, I would like to congratulate all
[continued on page 7J
Letters—
Politics Again
Editor, the Tartan:
Apropos of your editorial on politics: Cer­
tainly, an individual relinquishes half of his voter’s 
franchise when he fails to endorse individuals for 
nomination. For when he votes in November, half j 
the decision—half his vote—-has already been cast. 
The voter’s responsibility in this phase of politics 
cannot be diminished.
But when we speak of political responsibility, 
we must also be concerned with expressing our 
own individual viewpoints on candidates. We must 
analyze their policies, and if convinced that man 
embodies ideals consistent with national and in­
ternational progress, is able to perceive beyond 
limitations of *his opponent, and presents construc- * 
tive well-defined plans, then we morally can sup­
port him. But one’s own support is not always 
sufficient. For there are those who are undecided, 
and those who lack time to investigate, those who 
confuse idol worship as being more important than 
sound policies, and those whose bias must be de­
pressed by rational discussion. Therefore, it is 
the job of the citizen, convinced by evidence and 
logic, to communicate his convictions and that of * * 
his candidate to his fellow citizens.
In order to accomplish all these things, a Stu­
dent for Stevenson Organization has been formed 
on the Carnegie Tech campus. The organization is 
a part of the Allegheny County Students for Ste­
venson Organization and is affiliated with corre­
sponding chapters at Chatham College and the 
University of Pittsburgh, Chapters at Duquesne 
University and Mt. Mercy are being organized, . 
The second meeting will be held at the University 
of Pittsburgh on Wednesday evening, May 3, 8:00, 
room 219.
We, of course, wish to invite all interested stu­
dents to attend this meeting. At that time they 
will be able to learn more about. Adlai E. Steven­
son and what he stands for.
Sincerely yours,
Elliot Rothman 
Member, Carnegie Tech 
Students for Stevenson Organization _____:__________________ vi
Lowdown On Lowdown
Editor, the Tartan:
The Lowdown on Something Lowdown:
Who steals my purse steals trash; tis something, 
nothing; „ . * h
But he that filches from me my good name
Robs me of that which not enriches him
And makes me poor indeed. |
In your recent editorial rambling entitled “The 
Lowdown” you seem to insinuate in no uncertain 
terms that the awarding of the Thistle contract 
was anything but open and above board, and 
proper in every respect. Several nights ago you 
accepted an award from PiDE of which we both are 
members. One of the guiding principles of PiDE 
is accuracy, another is honesty; on both of these 
principles you have made a compromise at the in­
stigation of one of the members of the faculty. f
First, the awarding of the Thistle contract. The 
contract for the Thistle was signed on or about 
December 2&, 1955 with the approval of the Thistle 
staff members consulted and has been on file in the 
Dean’s office for over two months. You will also 
find in the Dean’s office a letter from my em­
ployer confirming my employment dated March 20,
1956. Now how or why I could or would be in­
strumental in landing a contract for an employer 
that did not exist at the time is something that 
any cub reporter would have asked himself before * 
casting the aspersions that you have.
Secondly, the subject of honesty. Although you 
did not come right out and accuse me of an im­
proper act in connection with the yearbook con­
tract the phrasing of your words could easily have 
given that thought. Why didn’t you come right 
out and accuse me of some improper act? Instead 
you use the cliche “no doubt.”’ The skillful use 
of this cliche allows you to cast aspersions on me 
and allude to them as truths, all in ttye same breath.
Gene Burke
Thistle Editor
Editor’s Note—Mr. Burke has insisted rather 
violently that this appear in print so we hope this 
will pacify him.
The facts quoted in this letter are correct. Our 
editorial was wrong to intimate that any dealings 
connected with the contract were underhanded. 
What we should have said was merely that Mr. 
Burke’s letter of the previous week should have 
stuck to selling Thistles and not tried to sell the 
publisher, too.
R.H.R.

---------------------------------------------------

Why Sen. Estes Kefauver 
reads The Reader’s Digest
"A magazine like The Reader's Digest takes up uhere 
school leaves off. It touches on an impressive array of 
significant subjects. It throws a white light on the issues 
that confront us. It educates as it entertains.”
In May Reader’s 
Digest don’t miss
CONDENSATION FROM BEST SELLER: “HOW TO LIVE 
365 DAYS A YEAR.” Half of those seeking medical 
aid can blame badly handled emotions, says Dr. 
John Schindler. Here he contrasts the damage done 
by flare-ups and worry with the healing power of 
good emotions, and gives 7 steps for cultivating a 
happier disposition.
THE CURIOUS CUSTOM OF GOING STEADY. Cameron 
Shipp describes the elaborate rituals and taboos of 
modern teen-age social life.
THE ART OF UNDERSTANDING OTHER PEOPLE. Before 
we judge another, we should ask: “Might I not be 
as bad or worse if faced with his troubles?” Clar­
ence Hall shows how amazingly our souls are en­
larged by searching out the best in others.
WHAT WOMEN DON'T KNOW ABOUT BEING FEMALE.
“As a doctor,” says Marion Hilliard, “1 don’t be­
lieve there is such a thing as a platonic relation­
ship between a man and woman who are alone to­
gether a good deal.” Here are her reasons.
Get May Reader’s Digest 
at your newsstand today—only 25? j
43 articles of lasting interest, including the best from leading j) 
magazines and current books, condensed to save your time. ft
See how you 
can select a 
3-pair Peters
for “dress up** occasions, style W 1003. t.95*
iSHMOWARDMNK
for as little as $2695’
Al oJvrti-d m KSQI IRB
Tuesday, May 1, 1956—CARNEGIE TARTAN—Page 7
PlllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllU IIIIIIIHIIIIHIIIUH
LIGHT WEIGHT
TUXEDOS
POWDER BLUE JACKETS
AND
WHITE DINNER JACKETS
Complete Rental Service For Your 
Spring Carnival Dance
STUDENT DISCOUNT
LIBERTY DRESS SUIT RENTAL CO.
East Liberty—5966 Baum Blvd. HI. 1-5972 
Downtown—130 - 7th St. AT. 1-6539
Illllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllilllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllll^
Notas—
[continued from page 6]
the cast and crew members of Scotch and Soda. 
I think they presented a fantastic show. I really 
think that this year’s ‘Head Over Heels’ is the 
greatest show that S ’n S has ever produced, and 
this is due not only to the cast, but to all the«
ersonnel connected with the club, Congratula- 
ons.
And so, let me wish all of you an unfeliz Car- 
naval de Primavera . . .
Over The Skibo Table
By Marshall R. Pihl
One can forgive Luis Macorra’s inability to 
deal with the English language, his lack of talent, 
the taste that is so utterly missing from his wox-k, 
®is cheap metaphors, his uninspired epigrams, and 
his guttersnipe attacks on better writers.
The feeling that must be expressed in describing 
his work is one of sympathy . . . sympathy for a 
guy who is caught and screams an ungrammatical 
gobble-de-gook.
“Falsehoods!” cries Macorra, when accused of 
being a “fascist agent.” It appears that Luis is the 
only person who even partially believed those ac­
cusations of last week’s “Over the Skibo Table.” 
His powers of observation must be severely limited 
Lb take to heart that merrymaking. But this isn’t 
my problem . . . it's his.
Luis has signed his death warrant in letting
himself become involved in this Saturday’s duel 
before the plank-jousting tournament on the Union 
lawn. I assure you that when those ketchup-filled 
balloons start flying, a vast majority will land on 
Macorra’s well-deserving puss.
This is the end of any and all comments I have 
to make on the subject of the Wetback and his 
immature warfare.* * *
When you see S ’n S this week keep both eyes 
open for a skit entitled “Tempest in a Cream
Pitcher.” Believe it or not . . . the thing is true.
Word for word, this amazing incident actually hap­
pened! After you see it, you’re on your honor not 
to reveal the ending to anyone . . . even to a 
dietician in More wood.* * ' *
k ..............
Want a lot 
tor a little?
Your campus store has 21 
quality series of paper 
bound books priced from 
35c to $1.35.
, 0. Don’t overlook this 
good bet to build 
your personal library
C.I.T.
Book Store
lor leisure Um*, stylt W 602.•.M*
NEW FACES FOR 56
Tou Delta Phi Booth
lot cl«» *»« sports wear, stylo W 672,•.95*
Now you can have the proper shoe for every 
occasion—a complete «hoe wardrobe—tor the price you’d expect to pay for a single pair! See the hundreds of Weeboro style« at your deal­er’«. Also makers of .-De City Club shoes... from «8.96 to *19.05.
*SN§Mfy hijhtr Mi Sowtft A Weft
The magazine Playboy is all the rage on our 
mighty-mite of a campus! The latest fad is for a | 
girl to buy a subscription for her boy-friend. Bob 
Lindsay is the jolly, bug-eyed representative for 
it here at Tech: Talking about rages and fads 
. . . they’ve got one in Donner Hall. It’s all day 
and night bridge. The 16-hour record was smashed 
lately by an unbelievable 29 straight hours of play!* ¦* *
A few weeks ago, this column came in for a lot 
of criticism when it dwelled upon what’s wrong 
with our campus. The complaints pointed out that 
there are many good things to be found . . . 
and that a little looking would turn the trick. 
That’s exactly what I’m going to do for the rest 
of the semester. Next week: Dorm Council.
S S Notes—
tcontinued from page 5]
requiring day and night work, started nearly a 
month ago, Mike told us. But, she explained, it 
wasn’t just the costume crew that did it. Numerous 
members of the cast and crew pitched in to get 
the momentous job done on time.
We continued on down to Black Cat Lounge to 
find the rest of the club eating supper. As we
arrived, John Drgon, this year’s S ’n’ S prexy,
rose to speak to the sixty or more supper-eaters
who sat cross-legged on the floor. To the accom­
paniment of deafening cheers and applause, he 
announced the winners of the Scotch and Soda 
Club pins. Excitement mounted as he reached the 
announcement of the winners of the coveted gold 
pins.
Ten Winners
There were ten winners in this category. Mike 
Pollock, for costume design; Luis De La Macorra, 
for publicity; Joe Harris for his work as the show’s 
composer; Dick O’Conner, for his work as busi­
ness manager; John Durr, the club’s purchasing 
agent; Betty Krogh, for off-campus publicity; Jan 
Hall for sound engineering; and Jackie Connelly 
for stage managering.
The final gold pin awards (the applause for 
which rattled the Black Cat rafters) went to John 
Conboy and John Kestner . . . co-directors of 
“Head Over Heels.”
This was the high point that spurred an ex­
cited cast on to an exciting show.
Pepsi-Cola Metropolitan Bottling Ce.. Pittsburgh tO. Pa.
%*&$  !"!" " " "!" "     !"!! "!"!

---------------------------------------------------

Page 8—CARNEGIE TARTAN—Tuesday, May 1, 1956
Trackers Edge Geneva; Lose to Titans
Field EventsShot Put—Recker (2), 2—Jackson (W), 3—Wood (W). Distance 39' 6V3".Discus Throw—D. Jackson (W), 2—Davis (W), 3—Wood (W). Distance 115'.Pole Vault—Tied—Templin (T) and Seidner (W), 3—Tied Shaffer (W) and Hamilton. Height 10' 6".Javelin Throw—McGregon (W), 2—Rrick (T). 3—Tied Polaski (T) andHayden (T). Distance 157' 6".High Jump—Towns (W). 2—Frank (T), 3—Hauser (T) and Debolt (Wi. Height 5' 9".
Broad Jump—Walker (W), 2—Smith(T), 3—Davis (W). Distance 21' 2".
Thursdays track meet with 
Geneva had a climatic ending 
when Carnegie’s Roger Strauss 
placed third in the discus throw 
to edge Geneva, 66-65; despite the 
fact that they were behind earlier 
51-30.
Sophomore John Mihm had a 
double vistory—one in the broad 
jump and a tie with Tech Track­
man Lesnak for the 120 yard low
by
Geneva’s Charles O’Data. O’Data 
had a triple victory sweeping the 
discus, the 100 yard dash, and the 
220 dash.
The other standous for Tech 
were Dick Swaney, who won the 
440 for the fifth straight time this 
year and ran on the winning mile 
relay team. Other firsts were by 
Wittman in the 880, Larry Bryant
In last week’s contests Carnegie Tech’s thinclads squeaked by# 
Geneva 66-65 on Thursday, after losing to Westminster’s unde­
feated Titans by a score of 73-58 in the Skibo bowl on Tuesday 
afternoon. Thursday’s victory gives the thinclads a 3 win—2 loss
record going into their final dual*------------------------------------------------------—
meet of the season against Grove 
City tomorrow afternoon in the 
Skibo Bowl. After the Grove City 
meet Coach Carman’s boys wll 
have a week and a half in which 
to prepare for the Tri-state meet 
at Meadville on May 12.
In Tuesday’s meet against West­
minster, the Tartans were able to 
take only six firsts in the 15 events 
as Jay De Bolt, a native Pitts­
burgher, captured both hurdle 
events and tied for third place in 
the high jump to lead West­
minster’s attack.
Dick Swaney was the leading 
point-getter for the thinclads, tak­
ing first in the 440 and running on 
the winning relay team. Tech’s 
only other first places in the track 
events were by freshman Bill
Wittman, who won the 880 yard
run and Larry Bryant who won V '^1 "V".. . .. J n- t i td i 1 hurdles only to be outdonethe two-mile race. Big Jack Reck- 1 J
er’s toss of 39' and QVz” was suf­
ficient to win the shot put for
Tech, and freshman Carl Templin 
completed the scoring by tying 
with Seidner of Westminster for 
first in the pole vault.
An unusual point of this meet 
was the large number of ties. Be­
sides the first place tie in pole
vault, there was a tie for third 
between Shaffer of Westminster 
and Tech’s Hamilton. Third place 
for the javeline throw was tied by 
two Tech men—Polaski and Hay­
den, and Hauser and DeBolt tied 
for third in high jump.
The statistics:
Track EventsMile run—Won by Sheraw (W>— 2—W. Bryant <T>—3—Ottervik (2*. Time—
4:43.0440 yard dash—Won by Swaney (T)—2—Jackson (W)—3—Suggs (Ti. Time 
—:53.1 /100 yard dash—Won by Walker iWi —2—Scungio (W)—3—McGrath (W). Time 
—:10.4High hurdles—Debolt (Wl—2—Hodak (Tt—3—King (T>. Time—:16.8.B80 yard run—Wittman (Tt—2—She­raw iWl—3—W. Bryant (T). Time—
2:05.5.220 yard dash—McGrath (W)—2—- Scungio l.Wi—3—Smith (T*. Time—:23.9.Two mile run—Bryant (Ti—2—Olds 
4u4r3—Paul (Wi. Time—10:28.1.Low hurdles—Debolt (Wt—2—Mihm 
T>—3—Lesnak (T). Time—:13.9.Mile relay—Heinecke, Suggs. W. Bry 
ant.Swaney <T>. Time—3:45.6.
Coach Carman briefs Recker, 
before the Westminster meet.
Bryant, Swaney, and Zuckerwar
in the two mile run, and Frank 
in the high jump.
It is interesting to note that 
Tech took only 7 of 15 first places 
and won on the strength of their 
many second and third places.
Track EventsMile run—Won by Weaver (G); second, W. Bryant (T); third, Ottervik (T). Time —4:44.4.440-yard dash—Won by Swaney (T); 
second, Martinetti (G); third, Spear (G).
Time—52.3 seconds.
100-yard dash—Won by O’Dala (G); second, Smith (T); third, Falcone (G). Time—10.3 seconds.
120-yard high hurdles—Won by Heni- 
check (Q); second, Brower (Gj; third, Hudak (T). Time—17.1 seconds.880-yard run — Won by Wittman (T); second, D. Jackson (G); third, Ottervik (Ti. Time—2:04.5.220-yard dash—Won by O’Data (G); second, Martinetti (G); third, Smith (T). Time—23.9 seconds.[continued on page 9]
Grove City Victim; 
Netters To Meet 
W & J, Duquesne
The Tartan tennis team bounc­
ed back from its loss to Duquesne 
with a decisive victory at Grove 
City on April 25. Coach Moses’ 
squad easily won eight out of nine 
matches, taking all six singles 
and two of the three doubles coo- 
tests. A1 Naworki and Karl Yu 
both were victorious in their first- 
appearance in single competition 
this season.
Last Saturday, April 28, the 
Plaid made an unfortunate jour­
ney to meet the West Virginia 
Mountaineers on a tennis court. 
The absence of Charley Schaul, 
who is out with a bad knee, and 
Joe Smeets was felt as West Vir­
ginia triumphed, 8-1 to bring 
Tech’s record to 1 and 2 on the 
young season. Nine matches wers 
to be played on the four courts, 
but the undecisive third doubles 
was fortified by Tech because of 
the late hour.
Two matches are scheduled for 
early this week; Duquesne away 
on Monday, and W&J on the 
home courts on Tuesday (today).
[continued on page 9]
Herschel Loomis asks:
What are my 
chances for 
advancement in 
a large company
Linksmeii 
Beat Geneva
By Fred Heider
This past week Tech’s golf team i 
was the victim of the weather j 
man in one match and successfully j 
took on Geneva in the other sched­
uled match. On Tuesday the match 
against the strong Pitt team was 
rained out. But on Friday as the 
temperature rose into the 70’s, 
Tech s team traveled to the Beaver 
Valley Country Club to meet Ge- j 
neva, Tech managed to eke out a 
912-81'2 victory.
This match was scored on the 
18 point basis. For each indi­
vidual match there is a possibility 
of winning three points, one 
awarded for each nine hole match 
and the additional point given for 
the overall match winner.
The following are the results of 
the individual matches: Tom
Schorr, the medalist with a 78, 
won 3-0; Mike Fedor, with an 84, 
came out on the short end of a 
very close match Vz-IVi', Fred 
Heider, with an 80, won 3-0; Marty 
Fertal, hampered by his long lay­
off, divided 1%-1%; Jerry Coon 
also split P/z-l^; and Dick Hod- 
nik lost 0-3.
As the final score indicates, the 
victory was only by the narrowest 
of margins. Coach Rogers was not j 
satisfied by the team’s showing. 
Geneva was regarded as one of i 
the less formidable opponents on 
this year’s schedule.
Coach Rogers expected a larger 
victory margain in this tuneup 
match for a difficult match today. 
The opponent, W&J, has proved 
to be very tsrong this year, as in­
dicated by its victory over Pitt. 
Today’s match is to be played on 
Tech’s home ground, Alcoma.
like Du Pont?
Herschel H. Loomis, Jr., will receive his U.S. degree in electrical 
engineering from Cornell University June 1957. Herschel is a member 
of the freshman and varsity rifle teams, an associate member of Octa­
gon, a dramatic group, and belongs to Theta Chi Fraternity. Like * 
many other students, he’s making employment plans early.
Peter Meshkoff answers:
Your question is a natural one, Herschel—one we hear 
quite often. Du Pont is unquestionably a large company 
in total number of employees and in all its operations.
But, actually, Du Pont is made up of ten independent 
departments, almost as if it were ten companies under 
one management. And it is a fundamental policy at 
Du Pont to promote from within and on merit only.
That produces many opportunities for new men, but 
in addition there are proportionately more promotions 
at Du Pont each year—by reason of expansion and re­
tirement—than you would find in most smaller com­
panies. I say “proportionately more” because Du Pont 
has grown at an average rate of seven per cent a year for ' 
the past 153 years—a record that few companies can 
match.
And Du Pont is still growing rapidly. Take your field, 
electrical engineering. A host of novel and challenging 
problems have to be faced, both in new construction and 
in maintenance. There are plants to design with features 
that have never been applied before; there are new 
equipment-control problems to work out, and new engi­
neering processes to pioneer. So, to answer your question ;# t
in a word, Herschel, I’d say your chances of promotion 
on merit are extremely good at Du Pont!
Peter J. Meshkoff joined Du Pont at the Jackson 
Laboratory in 1941, after obtaining a B.S.Ch.E. from 
the University of Detroit and an M.S. from the Uni­
versity of Michigan. He has had a wide range of Du Pont 
experience, from chemist in the Dye Works to chief 
supervisor and works engineer at several plants, with 
many opportunities to observe Du Pont personnel 
policies. Today Pete Meshkoff is works engineer at 
Du Pont’s new Film Plant at Circleville, Ohio.
WANT TO KNOW MORE about the 
opportunities for growth touched on by 
Pete Meshkoff? Send for a free copy of 
“The Du Pont Company and the College 
Graduate,” which discusses many of the 
employment policies and activities of 
DuPont indetail. WritetoE. l.duPont de 
Nemours <£r Co. (Inc.), 2521 Nemours 
Building, Wilmington 98, Delaware.
0.*. PAT. Off-
(ETTE* THINGS FO« BETTE* LIVING . . . THKOUGH CHEMIST g f
WATCH “DU PONT CAVALCADE THEATER” ON TV

---------------------------------------------------

Tuesday, May 1, 195«—CARNEGIE TARTAN—Pace 8
S,tô'poriócope
Anchor man Rich Giurlando of PK’s 4/5 mile relay team crosscs 
finish line in a record 2:53.5, ahead or PiKA’s Chuck Gough. N
Schuler ..............................SNJurick ...............................KS
Hvizdos ................................PK
2 Lap Relay
Kappa Sigma ..................................1:19.7*Pi Kappa Alpha .............................1:21.2Alpha Tau Omega ............................
WHAT’S THIS?
For answer, see 
paragraph at right.
KS Dethrones ATO In IM Track; 
Bob Carman Runs For Grads
By far the best IM track meet to be held yet was completed 
V»st Friday. The stiff competition in every event produced ten new 
'¿cords. In fact, the only record that was not broken was the shot 
put, where Karcher failed to do so by less than one inch. The
meet was conducted efficiently by^--------------------------------------------------------
Arnie Olds and the members of 
the varsitytrack squad.
Kappa Sigma dominated the 
sprints and won the sprint relay 
to amass an unbeatable total 
to amass an unbeatable total.
Their quartet of Vance, Pascar- 
ella, Schmidt, and Saxton proved 
tnibe a record-wrecking crew.
Phi Kappa, headed by their ace 
middle distance man, Rich Giur­
lando, showed strong in the quar­
ter mile and distance medley and 
picked up other points to edge the 
Grads by one point. Giurlando 
gave the meet a thrilling finish in 
the foyr lap relay as he overtook 
the anchor man of PKA, which 
had been leading for 3^ laps. PK 
broke the record in this event by 
6M> seconds.
Probably the greatest surprise 
of the meet was the showing of 
the four-man grad team, compos­
ed of John Hirth, Burton Polis- 
hook, Allston Mitchell, and Bob 
Carman. They topped four re­
cords, a surprising showing for a 
team which was organized but a 
few days oefore the meet and was 
competing for the first time.
Another good squad which 
ip£fde its first appearance was the 
Nr^A’s. They ran three events 
under the old records but won 
none of them, and were shut out 
in the field events.
The champions for the past two 
years, ATO, finished fifth due to 
the graduation of many of last 
year’s men. They- did lower one 
record when Del Ritchie won the 
broad jump with 19‘-7” t 
Team Scoring:
J. KS......................................42 %
PK .........................................30
3. Grads ........................29
4. PKA ......................................25
5. ATO ...................................18
6. BTP ..................................... 8
SN........................................... 9
100 yds.|
Pascarella ..........................KSVance ............................................ .KSDoney ................................PKAParis....................................ATOBorland ............................PKA
^ 1 440 yds.
Giurlando ..........................PKDick ....................................PKMarquet ............................PKAEngleman ...........................SN
Mile
Carman ..............................Gr.Gough ................................PKAFlynn ...................................OKHakner ................................Un.Hughes ................................KS
High Jump
Mitchell............................'.GR.Moore .................................BTPPlantz .................................BTPa
........................................BTPJer ....................................SN
Shot Put
Karcher ...............................Un.Major ............................ATO
Long .....................................KSPolishook .............................Gr.Achilles ............................ATO
4 Lap Relay
Phi Kappa
By Don McClelland
Bob Carman, Tech’s former star distance man and currently 
its track coach, won the mile and half-mile events in the recent 
IM track meet. He will soon run in the Olympic trails in Bakers­
field. Action by men such as Carman (and he was not the only ex­
varsity runner competing in the meet) reduce the IM track program 
to an absurdity. ,
As the rules now stand, each team is allowed one member who 
has lettered in the particular sport at Tech. But why should Nthe 
allowance not ^>e two, or ten, if one is permitted. The best solu­
tion to the problem to completely exclude ex-lettermen would make 
IM sports a true competition of those who back the talent for 
varsity position but wish to continue their sports competition.
Mr. Carman, who instituted the IM track program, feels this 
way also, and is turning over his first-place medals to the person 
who would have won had no ex-varsitv men competed. He feels 
that the present rules are fair to neither the varsity nor intramural 
track teams. This becomes apparent when one considers that the 
Varsity team loses the contribution of any departed men. On the 
other hand, the Intramural competitors are hurt by their presence, 
as the lettermen have the added experience and coaching which is 
available to only Varsity competitors.
When next year’s Intramural Board convenes, they should serious­
ly consider changing the existing rule to one limiting intramural 
participation to those who have never won a letter in the sport in. 
which they are competing.
T rack¦
120 yd. low hurdles
Mitchell Gr...................Gr.1.0...................PK....................KSHirth ..............................Gr.Montini....................KSTieBénzinger ,....................Un.Tie
Broad Jump
....................ATO19-7*Mitchell . ......................Gr.19-5...................PK19-0...................KS
Tennis—
[continued from page 8] 
The next match is May 10 when 
Tech is host to Westminister.
Tech vs. Grove City 
Glaser (CIT) defeated Sbrocco, 6-0, 6-2; Dussair (CIT) defeated Smith, 5-7, 6-1, 6-1; Rowley <CIT) defeated McMillan, 6-4, 6-2; Naworski (CIT) defeated Snyder
I continued from page i]
Two-mile run—Won by L. Bryant <T); 
second, Olds (T); third, B. Jackson (G). 
Time—10.26.6.
* 120-yard low hurdles—Mihm (T) and 
Lesnak (T) tied for first; third, Heni- 
check (G). Time—14 seconds flat.
Four-fifths of a mile relay—Won by 
Carnegie Tech (Ottervik, W. Bryant, 
Suggs, Swaney). Time—2:44.4.
Field Events
Shot Put—Recker (T), 2—Jackson (W), 
Recker (T); third, Lazor (G). Distance— 
46ft ., 10Vx in.
Discus throw—Won by O'Data (G>; sec­
ond Lazor (G); third, Strauss (T). Dis­
tance—124 ft., 93,i in.
Pole vault—Won by McCracken (G); 
second, Hamilton (T); third Zuckerwar 
(T). Height—10 ft., 10 in.
Javelin throw—Won by Lazor (G); 
second, Frick (T); third, Young (G). 
Distance—157 ft., 5 in.
High Jump—Won by Frank <T); second, 
Hauser (T); tied for third, Damico (G) 
and O’Data (G). Height—5 ft., 6 in.
Broad Jump—Won by Mihm <T); sec­
ond, Clark (G); third, Frank <T). Dis­
tance—20 ft., 8Va in.
6-33-6, 8-6; Wickham (CIT) defeatedJorden, 8-10, 6-4, 6-3; Yu (CIT) defeated Galbraith, 6-3, 7-5; Glaser and Rowley(CIT) defeated Sbrocco and McMillan,6-4, 6-4; Dussair and Noworski (CIT) de­feated Snyder and Balbraith, 6-2. 6-4;Smith and Wertz (G C) defeated Yu and Crissman, 6-1, 3-*, 6-4.
Tech v*. West Virginia Griffiths IWV) defeated Glaser, 6-2, 6-1; Fox (WV) defeated Dussair, 3-6, 6-4, 6-1; Lynch IWV) defeated Rowley, 6-3, 6-4; Calhoun (WV) defeated Naworski, 7-5,6-4; Spessard (WV) defeated Bieg, 6-4, 6-3; Yu (CIT) defeated Goodwin, 6-1,3-6, 6-3; Call Hun and Fox WV) de­feated Crispman and Wickham; Goodwin and Hare (WV) won by forgeit, 10-0, 6-3.
M’MM! LOVE THOSE LUCKY DROODLES!
10.9*11.011.1
54.5*56.0
4:35.4*
5-4*
45-8*/«
_________2:53.5*
Sigma Nu ............................................2:54.9
220 yds.
Schmidt ...........................KS 24.6
Vance .............................KS
Saxton ................................KSS< ovitch ......................ATOHuoard ............................ATO
880 yds.
Carman ..............................Grads 2:66.2
Gough ................................PKA
THERE'S A SHINING EXAMPLE of smok­
ing enjoyment in the Droodle at left: 
Lucky-smoking couple on moonlight 
drive. Lucky smokers always enjoy bet­
ter taste, because Lucky Strike means 
fine tobacco—mild, good-tasting to­
bacco that’s TOASTED to taste bette». 
So get on the beam—light up a Lucky 
yourself. You’ll say it’s the best-tasting 
cigarette you ever smoked!
DROODLES, Copyright 1953 by Roger Price
rr 's r0fi^be*er!iofas*
Students!
EARN
*25??!
TEPEE AFTEK 
HEAVY SNOW
Donald Shelby U. of Texas
m\ëL
GRANDMOTHER 
HEADING FOR CHURCH
David Fortsch Idaho State
BIG INK BLOT) 
SMALL BLOTTER
Donald Knud sen Harvard
CIGARETTES
Cut yourself in on the Lucky 
Droodle gold mine. We pay $25 
for all we use—and for a whole 
raft we don’t use! Send your 
Droodles with descriptive titles. 
Include your name, address, col­
lege and class and the name and 
address of the dealer in your col­
lege town from whom you buy 
cigarettes most often. Address: 
Lucky Droodle, Box 67A, 
Mount Vernon, N. Y.
I.
SEVERE
EARTHQUAKE
Tom Rummler Yale
3-COURSE DINNER 
AS SEEN BY ANTEATER
Marcia Hanson MiddJebury
GOALPOSTS AFTER 
FOOTBALL GAME
James Morgan, Jr. West Virginia 17.
LUCKIES TASTE BETTER - Cleaner, Fresher, Smoother I
1suN 1LdmODVCT OFAMEBICA’» LEADING MANUFACTURER OF CIGARETTE«

---------------------------------------------------

Page !•—CARNEGIE TARTAN—Tuesday, May 1, 155«
A scene at the start of the 1933 buggy race.
* * * * * *
If you had witnessed the first Sweepstakes Racc on May 14, 
1920, you would have gotten quite a surprise. That was the first 
time anything like a buggy contest had ever been tried here at 
Tech, and the conglomeration of rain barrels with bicycle wheels, 
four wheeled orange crates, and^-----------------------------------=--------------------
three wheeled ash cans must have 
put on a hilarious show as they 
started up Teen Street. They ran 
only one heat in those days, so 
things quite often got a little foul­
ed up, and accidents were the 
usual thing. Here’s what one ob­
server had to say about the first 
event.
“Promptly at 9:30, the pistol 
cracked and the race was on. As 
the mighty chariots roared up to 
the first turn, the Delta Upsilon 
Grasshopper lost a wing, and 
smashed into the curb. From then 
on the carnage was frightful, and 
the ambulances had plenty of 
work. Four minutes and thirty 
seconds from the start, the SAE 
and the PKA entries whizzed up 
to the finish line for a tie!”
Girls’ Race
In the next few years, various 
aspects of the race were changed. 
One year, it was required of 
buggies to enter the “pit” and 
change the left rear wheel to the 
right axle and vice versa. In 1923 
and 1924, the girls got into the 
act too by having a scooter race. 
An eyewitness of the girls in the
race says, “Their speed was evi­
dently judged more by their cos­
tumes than by their place at the 
finish line.” The report goes even 
further to say that some of the 
girls wore the equivalent of Ber­
muda shorts. The girls scooter 
race however, was soon replaced 
by a roller skating race; they 
must have showed too much knee 
as they raced up the hill.
It wasn’t until 1926 that some­
one had the idea of having the 
time trials on Friday morning and
son, all efforts should be made to 
complete your schedule' on time. 
The 32 teams are divided into 8 
leagues, with each team playing 3 
games. Schedules and ground rules 
are available at the» IM office. 
Officials should get a ball, score- 
book, and mask for their games, 
and the managers are responsible 
for picking up two bats, two 
gloves, one mask, and three base- 
pads. All of this equipment must 
be returned to the towel room 
immediately following a game.
the finals on Saturday morning. 
The running of buggies in heats 
of three both cut the accident 
problem down considerable, and 
raised the number of entries. It 
was this trophy that started the 
long climb of increasing competi 
tion which has become more and 
more evident in the past few 
years.
Record of 3:22 
The buggy race of today has 
evolved from that 1926 race in 
which a new time record of 3:22 
was set. The record has been bro­
ken many times since then, and 
last year ATO set a new record 
at 2:26.0. Every year, the shapes 
and designs of the different bug­
gies take on a sleeker, more mod­
ern look, as well as more efficient 
wheels, bearings, steering mech­
anisms, and pushing bars.
NATIONAL GYPSUM CO.
will interview on campus on May 8
We are a young aggressive organization in the building 
materials field with over 250 products, 40 plants located 
throughout the United States and 30 District Sales Of­
fices. Opportunities are available in Engineering, Pro­
duction, Research, Sales and Administration. We are 
interested in interviewing those who wish to be asso­
ciated with a Company whose future is definitely 
assured.
That’s where the pause that 
refreshes with ice-cold Coke began.
Now it’s enjoyed fifty million times a day.
Must be something to it. And there is. Have aa 
ice-cold Coca-Cola and seé...right now.
BOTTLED UNDER AUTHORITY OF THE COCA-COLA COMPANY BY
When your big theme rates "A” 
And you’re feeling real gay 
To top off the day-have a CAMEL I
Soccer
In the two games played last 
week, ATO and the Obelisks scor­
ed “must” victories over KS “B” 
and DU, both by one to nothing. 
Now they are tied with Phi Kap
for the Kiltie League lead, and 
must eliminate one . of the three 
before the playoffs can begin with 
KS “A” and BSR, the Skibo 
League winners. Scheduled games 
are posted on the IM board*.
Tech Sweepstakes Race WasIM Roundup
days remain to complete the sea-
Begun Thirty-six Years Ago
Softball
Play will start Monday in the 
IM softball season. As only 14
M(to-JkaJikbure Ibtattie!
It's a psychological fact: 
Pleasure helps your disposition,
If you're a smoker, remember 
— more people get more 
pure pleasure from Camels 
than from any other cigarette I
No other cigarette is so 
rich-tasting, yet so mild!

---------------------------------------------------

Tuesday, May 1, 1956—CARNEGIE TARTAN—Pagre 11
NEGîE-yf/ < \ // Irii /
This page edited by Evening School Students of the 
Carnegie Institute of Technology
Editor ............................................................................................. Emily Muhic
Reporter ........................................................................... John Van Holt, Jr.
Ì
Sideline News 
And Views
By John Van Holt, Jr.
Convention rehashed . . .
Old news is sometimes referred to as stale news but, if it is 
good news, it will refresh the memories of those participants who 
were a part of it. To those of us who were unable to be participants
the old cliche, “Wish you were*-------------------------------------------------------
here” would be applicable. I Union on Sunday evening, May 
Such a case would be the an- 20, at 6 p.m.
nual Middle Atlantic Province 
(MAP) Convention that was held 
j|t Penn State University from 
^.pril 13 to April 15.
Newman Clubs from such in­
stitutions of higher learning as 
Tech, Pitt, Chatham College, Uni­
versity of Penn State, University 
of George Washington, University 
of Maryland, University of Buck- 
nell, and Drexel Institute of Tech­
nology are but a few of the schools 
supplying delegates to the con­
vention.
™ Contrary to most conventions 
this one was not a gathering of 
students whose sole purpose of at­
tending was “no work and all 
play.” Panel discussions, commit­
tee meetings, nominating and elec­
tion and election meetings, and 
committee reports consumed most 
of the time of the delegates. A 
communion breakfast, banquet, 
dancing, and informal partiesf
iunded out the week end activ­
es.
Next year George Washington 
University (Washington, D. C.) 
will play host to the MAP dele­
gates. That may be the year when 
we may be able to tell our future 
children and grandchildren that 
we played a round of golf with 
“Ike” (Stevenson backers please 
note).
Social Whirl . . .
Now that the spring semester is 
fast drawing to a close a deluge 
of social activities is flooding ev­
ery nook and cranny. Engineers’ 
Banquet, Newman Club Annual 
Banquet, PIFCSO Banquet, and 
Student Council Square Dance are 
some of the scheduled social flings 
for th^ month of May. All of 
these affairs promise a most en­
joyable time for students who 
might avail themselves the time to 
Hitend. It is no secret that the 
campus organizations sponsoring 
these events have spent many un­
paid man-hours of preparation as 
well as a large outlay of money to 
revive a not too healthy social at­
titude among a great number of 
students.
Let’s get behind each of these 
affairs 100%. By attending in 
large numbers we will be able to 
¿dve positive proof of gratitude to 
«flose who have labored so hard 
so that we will be able to be a 
part of many enjoyable evenings. 
A small attendance will be induc­
tive of a “thanks-for-nothing” at­
titude. Don’t be a schmoe, let’s go. 
Wine, Dine, and Dance . . .
Newman Banquet
Evening School Newman Club 
has almost completed plans for 
the Annual Newman Club Ban­
ket that will take place at the
Vice President Dolores Neff has 
given unselfishly of her time in 
arranging and scheduling the pro­
gram to insure a most enjoyable 
evening. President John Van Holt 
and PIFCSO Delegate Joe Morgan 
are also availing themselves to 
further the success of this affair.
Within a few days post cards 
and phone calls will be directed to 
the members for the purpose of 
confirming reservations.
In as much as the number of 
people attending will determine 
the amount of food to be ordered 
members are requested that they 
immediately confirm their reserva­
tions. “Better late than never” en­
thusiasts will be in for a rude 
awakening.
Evening School 
Newman Club 
Goes National
At long last Evening School 
Newman Club, under the untiring 
efforts of the present administra­
tion officers, have become feder­
ated with the National Newman 
Club Federation, thereby fulfill­
ing the ambitions of president 
John Van Holt. The cooperation 
of such officers as Vice President 
Dolores Neff, Corresponding Sec­
retary Chuck Labee, and Treas­
urer Ed Daly was a tremendous 
aid in making this possibility a 
reality.
The unanimous vote for feder­
ation on the part of the member­
ship is further proof that New­
man Club intends to make their 
organization a progressive one in 
every sense of the word.
Plii Gamma Pi, 
Evening Council 
Collaborate In Tea
On Sunday April 22, 1956, Phi 
Gamma Pi Sorority members held 
a Tea which was sponsored by 
Student Council. Sorority Presi­
dent Audrey WiskoW welcomed 
all present. Mr. and Mrs. McKel- 
way and Mrs. Goodfellow were 
guests who extended their greet­
ings tc all. Mrs. Mary Alice Pet­
erson spoke in place of Student 
Council President Matt Bertovich. 
Miss Peterson explained the pur­
pose of Student Council and it is 
hoped more will join next semes­
ter. The male members of Coun­
cil were introduced. Miss Eileen 
Wolf presented her brother, 
Richard Wolf, who showed inter-
Evening Sorority 
In Mother’s Tea
Phi Gamma Pi Sorority will 
hold a Mothers’ Tea on May 6 at 
2:00 o’clock. All sorority members 
are urged to attend and bring 
¦their mothers as guests. Those 
who are unable to bring their 
mothers are requested to bring an 
aunt or some other close friend or 
relative. Miss Ellen Gonter will 
show colored slides of previous 
teas, banquets, and social events 
that were sponsored by Phi Gam­
ma Pi in recent years.
Congratulations to Marjorie 
Reed, a Phi Gamma Pi member, 
and Ken Pore, a Student Council 
member, who have become the 
proud parents of a daughter. Su­
san Melinda, on. April 18, 1956.
Floyd J. Byers 
Receives Award
The Carnegie Tech Evening 
Student Achievement Award was 
presented to Floyd Joseph Byers 
at the annual evening engineer­
ing student banquet last night.
Byers, who receives his degree 
in mechanical engineering this 
June, was chosen from among 55 
evening candidates for degrees. 
He is employed during the day as 
construction engineer for Jones 
and Laughlin Steel Corporation 
and has been working toward his 
degree thirteen years.
The evening students also pre­
sented a citation to Dr. Webster 
N. Jones, Carnegie’s vice-presi­
dent who is retiring to accept a 
position in industry. The citation 
was for his deep interest in the 
problems of the evening student.
FOR YOUR TUXEDO SUITS FOR 
THE SPRING CARNIVAL FORMAL
See ...Dress Suit Rental Co.
k Pittsburgh Life Building
R. A. Phelleps ATIanfic 1-2346
Evening Council 
Square Dance 
Set For May 12
Don’t forget to circle May 12 
on your calendar, for that is the 
night we will all don jeans and 
shirt or a pretty cotton dress and 
swing our partners to the calls 
of Don Guyer and orchestra. If 
you don’t have a partner come 
anyway to Thistle Hall and you’ll 
be sure to get someone to join you 
in a set. The square dance is be­
ing sponsored by Student Council 
but one and all are welcome. 
Don’t worry if you’ve never 
square danced before because be­
fore the night is over you will 
be “dipping for the oyster” as good 
as any one else. Tickets may be 
obtained from Miss Marilyn Dar- 
rah who is in charge of the event, 
any Student Council member, a 
note to the Plaid or Mr. McKey- 
way’s office.
esting color slides of Gafmish 
and Bamburg, Germany, which 
he had taken while serving in 
World War II. Everyone present 
received a red carnation corsage 
with a white center piece repre- 
! senting a clock, since the theme 
! was “Time To Visit Germany.”
I Lunch consisted of apple strudel, 
tea, coffee, pretzels, and German 
canapes. Each table had a center­
piece of either a stein or a pripe. 
Miss "Eileen Wolf, Lana- Kubasec, 
and Cleo Mustakis were in charge 
of the Tea.
FOR COMPLETE 
HARDWARE, PAINT, 
and GIFT SELECTIONS 
• Try Us First •
OAKLAND HARDWARE
3606 Forbes St. - MA 1-0923
J. Paul Sheedy* Was Always A Scapegoat Till 
Wildroot Cream-Oil Gave Him Confidence
Students! 
Faculty Members!
SAVE UP TO
60^o
On New 1956 Fords 
and All Makes of 
Used Cars 
See: Wally Donoghue 
MU 3-0242 
103 Welch Hall 
Box 337, C.I.T.
It got Sheedy'a goat the way everyone kidded him about his messy hair. 
Even his girl horned in: "Sheedy, you shaggy stinker, you lack confidence 
— you’re pasture prime.” Well J. Paul felt pretty sheepish about this, so 
he tried Wildroot Cream-Oil. Now he has confidence in 
nanny situation because he knows his hair looks healthy 
and handsome, the way Nature intended .. . neat butt 
not greasy. Wildroot Cream-Oil contains the heart of 
Lanolin, the very best part of Nature’s finest hair and 
scalp conditioner. Try it yourself. Butter get a bottle or 
tube of Wildroot Cream-Oil today. With Wildroot on 
your hair, the girls will goat to any lengths for a date 
with you.
+ of 131 So. Harris Hill Rd., WiUiamst ille, N. Y.
Wildroot Cream-Oil 
gives you confidence
Just look around campus. You’ll see that the 
‘.‘custom” details of this Arrow University shirt 
are definitely “college correct.” The box pleat, 
the soft-roll button-down collar, and the back 
button are basic requirements. In 9 solid colors, 
this is the oxford shirt for you. Wear it with 
comfortable Arrow Bermuda shorts. They’re 
poplin, and available in 6 colors. Shirts, $5.00. 
Tie, $2.50. Shorts, $5.00.
From any angle — 
it says "College man
-ARROW-
—first in fashion
SHIRTS ? TIES • SLACKS
Campus Headquarters for Arrow Products
LEONARD'S MENS SHOP
Corner Forbes and Atwood St - Oakland

---------------------------------------------------

Paje 12—CARNEGIE TARTAN—Tuesday, May 1, 195«
631
LIBERTY
AVE.
Phope
COurt
1-1880
Fulbright Awards
Sylvester Damianos, a senior 
architect, and Claude Jenkins, a 
senior drama student, were the 
fortunate recipients of Fulbright 
Scholarships to study abroad next 
year.
The projects and statement of 
purpose that Sylvester Damianos 
submitted won him a year of 
study at the Technical University 
of Delft in the Netherlands. He 
will study architecture there for 
the 1956-1957 academic school 
year. Damianos is from Duquesne, 
Pennsylvania.
Claude Jenkins, who was seen 
recently as Antony, in Shake­
speare’s “Antony and Cleopatra,” 
is planning to study drama at the 
London Academy of Music and 
the Dramatic Arts.
The Fulbi/ghtv award, which
[Continued from page 1] 
Tickets for the Carnival Jazz 
Concert and dance were dis­
tributed tor sale at the .individual 
houses. Student Council will not 
permit any fraternity to have a 
band in the house during either 
of these events, but bars may re­
main open.
It was decided to again hire two 
patrolmen to maintain order in 
the vicinity of Morewood Place 
uring the weekend.
Needing a worthwhile project 
for the end of the year, the Coun­
cil decided to readopt the Korean 
orphan adopted last year. Two 
hundred dollars was appropriated 
for continuation of the partial 
support of this young boy for an­
other year.
Campaigns—
[Continued from page 11 
dates. Cyrus received four votes, 
and one each was cast for Kim 
Novak, Grace Kelly, and Sgt. 
Hideqk.
Started Monday
The campaigning started Mon­
day morning at 8:00 when signs 
started appearing all over cam­
pus. Tuesday noon, five sororities 
presented their skits in Skibo be­
fore a packed house. Campaign­
ing continued in the evening at 
the fraternity houses and dorms. 
On Wednesday, the final two so­
rority skits were put on in Skibo, 
followed by an unannounced and 
well-received bit sponsored by 
certain of the printers. (This is 
described elsewhere.)
The girls concluded their cam­
paigns Thursday evening with | 
more entertainment for the pnen 
at fraternities and dorms. Al­
though precautions were taken at 
CFP to prevent the occurrence of 
a rally at the evening’s end, a 
huge throng just naturally gath­
ered in the middle of the More- 
wood Place and Morewood Ave­
nue intersection ,and rallied. The 
merriment lasted for well over 
an hour.
Two CIT Arts 
Students Receive
may be applied for by anyone 
with or about to receive a degree 
in any field, is a grant to partici­
pate in the International Educa­
tional Exchange program of the 
United States Government.
Your
Uccerr * mye«s FL
1. SUPERIOR TASTE
So good to your taste because of L&M’s 
superior tobaccos. Richer, tastier—espe­
cially selected for filter smoking. For the 
flavor you want, here’s the filter you need.
2. SUPERIOR FILTER
So quick on the draw! Yes, the flavor 
comes clean—through L&M’s all white 
Miracle Tip. Pure white inside, pure 
white outside for cleaner,better smoking.
rnMake Today Your Big Red Letter Day!
• Uwm * Mm« .PPRA Cki
Dr. MinerS ’it S-DRESSSUIT
Cental
WE RENT
* Summer Formats
* Tuxedos
* Cutaways
* Full Dress
* All Formal Accessories
[Continued from page 11 
Clark University in 1912, Dr. 
Miner went to Worcester Poly- 
techmic Institute and got a BS 
in electrical engineering in 1915. 
He also did graduate work at 
Worcester. In 1940, the University 
of Pittsburgh awarded him an 
honorary Doctor of Engineering 
degree.
Twice, his career has been in­
terrupted by military service. In 
the first World War, he served as 
a captain in tne neavy artillery. 
During World War II, the Army 
took advantage of his educational 
ability, and he was responsible 
for the preparation of some cur­
ricula and other training mater­
ials to be used in training college 
men for Army service.
New Handbook
Dr. Miner has authored man}' 
published technical articles and 
is co-editor of the recently pub­
lished Handbook ot Engineering 
Materials, a monumental and 
comprehensive work prepared by 
52 specialists working over a 
period of eight years. This is a 
handbook for all engineers, not 
for any one specific branch, be­
cause it was felt that the conven­
tional, specialized materials hand­
books art too limited in scope.
A registered engineer in Penn­
sylvania, Dr. Miner is a fellow in 
the AIEE, and is listed in Who's 
Who in America, Who’s Who in 
Engineering, and Who's Who in 
Education.
He has enjoyed his Work at 
Carnegie Tech, but he has tound 
the personnel job much harder 
than the materials job. He says 
‘ If you’re an engineer, it’s more 
difficult to tackle the job of ad­
ministration. There are no definite 
solutions and hardly any solutions 
are perfect; you always have to 
compromise.”
[continued from page 1]
lent, especially in “The Chess 
Game Ballet.” “The Hatshop 
Ballet” was, in my opinion, one 
of the most successful and im­
pressive numbers, two reasons 
being that it was longer than us­
ual, and it featured Denise Getsie, 
who displayed beautiful co-or- 
! dination and grace.
An ethereal quality was achiev­
ed in “The Story of a Dream,” 
which combined the voice of 
Reginald Bethel with the dancing 
talents of Bob Prothero and Anne 
Antrim. The bright yellow cos­
tumes and the peppy catch tune 
of “All in the Family,” will be 
remembered by many members 
of the audience in days to come.
The comedy, music, and danc­
ing together with the stage effects 
undeniably achieved for “Head 
Over Heels” a professional polish.
EAST END STUDENTS:
For Your Tuxedos for the 
Spring Carnival Formal
CllTTT.• GROSS!
For • Best Quality 
• Lowest Price
7209 Frankstown Ave.(Hurchill 1-6636
Perfect fit. Complete new stocks 
and complete range of sizes. 
Fast, dependable King’s service. 
For your next formal, call
