Mellon to Combine 
CashStream With 
MAC Machines
By CARLOS FRANCO
Tartan Staffwriter
On January 7, the consolidation of 
MAC and CashStream Automated 
Teller Machines (ATMs) under the 
MAC name was announced. This an­
nouncement was made jointly by Mel­
lon Bank, owner of CashStream ma­
chines, and by Corestates Financial 
Corp, owner of MAC.
Under the terms, jof the venture, Mel­
lon Bank has agreed to switch over from 
their own network, CashStream, to 
Corestates’ network MAC. In return 
Corestates has agreed to pay Mellon 
Bank approximately $9 million as well 
as the possibility of future gains.
Mellon bank did not sell CashStream; 
they merely agreed to exit network 
management.
Other than Mellon Bank, 194 finan­
cial institutions offer its customers 
access to the 1,819 CashStream ATMs. 
These other institutions are being given 
an option to switch over to the MAC 
ATM network.
Mellon Bank and Corestates have 
made $5 million available to help these 
firms switch networks. The $5 million 
is to cover costs such as issuing of new 
cards, putting up new signs, and acquir­
ing the software necessary to enter the 
new ATM network.
The consolidation of the two ATM 
continued on page 4
The Tartan
Volume 82, Issue 14Carnegie Mellon UniversityJanuary 26,1988
INSIDE
FEATURES_________Page 14
Spring Break trouble-shooter guide, and 
“Field to Factory” exhibit at Hunt
SPORTS____________Page 24
Men’s basketball road trip results and 
Tartan Editor Superbowl picks
Security Tracks Down Pilfered Printer
Solomon Sparks Debate
Student Senate Elects Three Members at Large
Reclaiming the Dream...
By KEVIN POECKING
j Tartan Staffwriter
Three Senators at Large joined Student Sen­
ate at last Tuesday’s meeting. Senators at 
Large have the same responsibilities as Sena­
tors except they do not have a vote. The candi­
dates were Aaron Solomon, Dennis Wilke, 
and Greg Vaserstein.
Debate began immediately after Solomon’s 
speech. Several questions were asked by Seña­
la tor Allen Greenberg, who has a debate show 
on WRCT with Solomon. Greenberg supports 
the liberal view while Solomon supports the 
conservative view.
Greenberg asked Solomon whether or not he 
would support minority clubs. He also asked 
about Solomon’s write-in campaign for Sen­
ate in which Greenberg said there were anti- 
Student Union slogans which proposed revok- 
. ing the Union’s funding.
Greenberg and other Senators claimed Solo­
mon evaded the questions put to him and 
would not supply yes or no answers. The other 
candidates gave speeches, but fewer questions 
were asked of them and less debate occurred 
between Senators and these candidates.
After all speeches and questioning, the can­
didates were asked to leave the room so Sena­
tors could discuss and vote on them. Senator
?
Peter Berger expressed concern, saying that 
“Aaron really scares me” and cautioned about 
how evasive Solomon was during question­
ing.
Senator Peter Zapf explained that Solomon 
was in a Catch-22 situation during the ques­
tioning. If he had answered all of the questions, 
some Senators would have claimed he was not 
representing his constituency. But, by being 
evasive, he still drew criticism.
Another Senator claimed that personal views 
shouldn’t make a difference as long as they 
give input to the discussic ns and committees. 
“I don’t care if he's representing God's opin­
ion... Let them say what they want,” he said.
Despite the debate and long deliberation 
Solomon was elected by one vote. Wilke and 
Vaserstein were also elected.
In Other Senate Business...
Also during the meeting, $3,950 was allo­
cated to WRCT for the purchase of a modula­
tion monitor and Kiltie Band was given $3,298 
since they were dropped from the music de­
partment. In addition, the Health Enhance­
ment Club was recognized as a service organi­
zation and given $2,008 for the newsletters, 
talks, and other services they provide to the 
campus community.
Carnegie Mellon students and faculty gathered on the Cut for a flagpole vigil as part 
of the celebration of Dr. Martin Luther King, Jr.’s birthday. For a complete story 
describing this and other activities in memory of the civil rights leader, see page 3.
on the phone, I called Campus Police and had 
them put a trace on the call.”
Apparently, Morgan had initially called 
Margaret Morrison Computing Cluster, and 
the PC Consultant there had referred him to the 
User Consultant. When the suspect called the 
UCC, he claimed to be the PC Consultant at the 
Computer Cluster in Baker Hall 140.
The Centrex phones in the clusters, however, 
ring once for a call coming from a campus 
location, and twice for a call coming from off- 
campus, which alerted the Consultants in the 
UCC that the caller was lying.
“There’s no place on campus anyway that 
you can be sitting in front of a Macintosh 
talking on the phone,” says Harrison, which is 
what Morgan had claimed to be doing when he 
spoke to them.
Campus Police contacted Bell Security and 
asked them to try to do a rapid trace on the 
phone call. Morgan did not remain on the line 
long enough to complete the trace, but the 
phone company had been able to narrow the 
area down to Crafton.
At around 5 pm Saturday. Donald Snow, the 
consultant on duty in the Baker Hall 140 clus­
ter, received a call from Morgan, who now 
claimed to be the PC Consultant at the UCC.( 
Campus Police was notified and requested a 
second trace from Bell Telephone.
They then called Clark Harrison and asked 
him to come down to the Baker cluster to give 
Snow more suggestions on what to tell Mor­
gan to keep him on the phone.
“Don Snow did all the talking and Brian 
Hobbs and I fed him a whole bunch of infor­
mation to keep the caller on the phone. Don 
was really cool and he pulled it off. because 
Morgan was not suspicious at all.” says Ham-
continued on pace 4
photo by Jeff Ro*enbium
The printer Cedar, an Image writer, a Macintosh SE, and two keyboards were confiscated 
at Fred Morgan's house in Crafton. He was charged with four counts of theft
By RHONDA LANDY
Tartan Staffw’riter
On Saturday, January 16, at approximately 
2:40 am, the LaserWriter Plus referred to as 
Cedar was stolen from the printing room in the 
University Computer Center cluster while the 
PC consultant on duty was working with some 
disks.
Campus Police, with the aid of two students, 
has arrested a suspect, Fred Morgan of 1640 
Crafton Boulevard, Crafton, in whose house 
the printer and other stolen items were found.
Clark Harrison, UCC Cluster Head, recalling 
Saturday morning, said, “I started thinking 
about what somebody would want to use 
Cedar for. I figured out that somebody would
probably want to use it as a Macintosh printer, 
which he wouldn't be able to do, because its 
password file is set up for the Andrew system.
“Saturday afternoon, I posted a message on 
the Academic Computing electronic bulletin 
boards telling the other PC Consultants what 
kind of questions to look for because I had a 
feeling the guy would have enough gall to call 
us to figure out how to work this thing.”
“While I was in the process of writing the 
post, Dave Bolen, who was the User Consult­
ant at the time, walked out and said to me, 
‘You’re a Mac person, what does this error 
mean?’ and it was the same error I was telling 
Consultants to be listening for. So while Gary 
Aulfinger and David Bolen stalled [Morgan]

---------------------------------------------------

Page 2—The Tartan—January 26,1988
/«T»»
Wlll^l «Kf
/Ain
----
1ÉÊ 1W#N\\M f/ Mlf/ WH/
Reagan Seeks Lethal 
Aid for Contra Rebels
WASHINGTON (AP) — Last Monday 
President Reagan decided to resume airdrops.
of lethal supplies to Nicaragua's Contra rebels 
and will seek more money for the insurgents in 
a request to Congress later this month, his 
spokesman said.
“This is not the time to falter in our support 
for the freedom fighters (the Contras),” said 
presidential spokesman Marlin Fitzwater.
Reagan sent a certification to Congress later 
in the day to resume shipments, which had 
been*held up for the last week while the five 
Central American presidents met in San Jose, 
Costa Rica, to evaluate the progress of their 5- 
month-old peace agreement.
North Korea Threatens 
War on South Korea
TOKYO (AP) — North Korea, in the wake 
of renewed tensions on the Korean peninsula 
with South Korea denouncing the North for 
the destruction of an airliner, warned of a 
possible war unless the divided halves solved 
their problems.
Rodong Sinmun, the newspaper of 
Pyongyang’s Workers (Communist) Party, 
made the warning in a commentary which was 
devoted to pressuring the South into accepting 
a North Korean proposal for a special confer­
ence on easing tensions.
The official (North) Korean Central News 
Agency, monitored in Tokyo Friday, quoted 
the commentary as saying, “If the North and 
the South fail to solve the pending issues 
including the discontinuation of large-scale 
war exercises, our nation will hardly become 
reconciled and united, reunification will be 
farther off, and the nation will have no choice 
but to make a war.”
Soviets Propose 
Removal of Missiles
BONN (AP) — Soviet Foreign Minister 
Eduard Shevardnadze last Tuesday called for 
withdrawing short-range nuclear missiles 
from Europe, weapons which have been wor­
rying West German leaders.
“We back a complete withdrawal of tactical 
nuclear (weapons), a move that would corre­
spond to the interests of all Europeans,” 
Shevardnadze said in prepared comments 
slated for delivery during a dinner meeting.
He also said the Kremlin is prepared “for 
negotiations over the problem of conventional 
forces. And it is of interest to us, whether we 
can count on our west European partners 
(NATO) meeting us half-way.”
At the same banquet, West German Foreign 
Minister Hans-Dietrich Genscher called for 
superpower negotiations to reduce short- 
range, or tactical, nuclear weapons. Such 
weapons have a range of less than 500 kilome­
ters.
Genscher and Shevardnadze’s speeches 
underscored emerging differences on several 
key disarmament issues between West Ger­
many and its NATO partners, including the 
U.S.
Since the superpowers signed an agreement 
last December to eliminate intermediate- 
range nuclear weapons world-wide, West 
Germans have been pressing for negotiations 
on short-range nuclear weapons as well.
Peres Calls for Spring 
Election in Israel
JERUSALEM (AP) — Foreign Minister 
Shimon Peres called for a spring election, 
saying Israel’s government is too divided to 
make peace with the Arabs or curb the vio­
lence in the occupied territories.
But his rival, Prime Minister Yitzhak Sha­
mir, insisted Israel must first restore order in 
the West Bank and Gaza Strip. “When we are 
under attack, it wouldn’t be good to go into an 
election war,” Shamir said.
Shamir also called on the United States and 
Egypt to help revive talks on autonomy for the 
occupied territories as outlined in the 1979 
Camp David accords.
A second day of calm was reported in the 
occupied territories following the lifting of 
curfews on all but one West Bank village, and 
the army said it planned to do the same soon in 
the Gaza Strip, where seven out of eight refu­
gee camps are under curfew.
At least 36 Palestinians have been killed by 
Israeli gunfire since the uprising began six 
weeks ago among the 1.5 million Palestinians 
under occupation.
Discrimination Case 
May Set Precedent
WASHINGTON (DJ) — The Supreme 
Court heard arguments last week on a job-dis- 
crimination case that could force managers to 
provide rigid justifications for subjective hir­
ing and promotion decisions.
©Æ Tir awl
'Dcuftona
Spend Spring Break in the SUN, SAND and SURF on the WORLD’S LARGEST BEACH with the Deaigner Difference!
From $185 and up!
• Round trip transportation via modem motorcoaches leav­
ing CMU March 25 and returning April 2.
• 7 nights accomodations at one of Daytona's finest hotels.
* LOOK FOR PINK POSTERS ON CAMPUS *
For More Details 
Contact: Darryl x4527
The case, Clara B. Watson vs. Fort Worth 
Bank & Trust, is viewed as one of the most 
significant employment-discrimination cases 
in recent years. A favorable ruling for Watson 
would make it far easier for individuals to 
press job-discrimination suits as they move up 
supervisory ranks, where promotion decisions 
typically become hazier and more subjective.
Business groups contend the plantiff is seek­
ing to inject the courts into everyday business 
judgments. And, they argue, companies would 
be required to do the impossible, prove statis­
tically that a manager’s subjective decisions 
on such traits as leadership or assertiveness 
correlate to job performance.
Watson filed suit in 1981 claiming racial 
discrimination after she was denied promo­
tions as a supervisor of tellers four times by her 
then-employer, Fort Worth Bank & Trust, 
now known as MBank East, a unit of MCorp.
A federal district court judge dismissed the 
suit, and a 5th U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals 
panel upheld that action, 2-1.
U.S. Supreme Court 
Rules Against CMU
WASHINGTON — The Supreme Court 
ruled last Wednesday that a federal judge had 
acted properly when he transferred a wrongful 
discharge suit against Carnegie Mellon to a 
state court.
In the majority opinion, Justice Thurgood 
Marshall said that federal judges do have the 
authority to return cases back to state courts 
after determining that no federal issues apply.
The decision stems from a suit filed in Al­
legheny County Court by William Boyles and 
his wife. Boyles was dismissed from his job as 
a maintenance supervisor at Carnegie Mellon 
in 1984.
Boyles, 59, originally claimed he was a vic­
tim of age discrimination, so CMU lawyers 
had the case moved to federal court.
When Boyles dropped the age discrimina­
tion part of his suit and asked that the case be 
returned to state court, CMU lawyers pro­
tested, setting the stage for a series of appeals 
that led to the Supreme Court decision.
U.S. Missile Explodes 
In Ninth Test-Flight
CAPE CANAVERAL, Fla. (AP) — A Tri­
dent 2 missile exploded in the first test-flight 
failure in nine launches for the Navy’s new 
submarine weapon.
The three-stage weapon thundered off a land 
launch pad and appeared to observers to be 
flying well. But nearly an hour later, the Navy 
reported that a malfunction had occurred 2 
minutes 43 seconds after lift-off, near the end 
of powered flight.
When the malfunction was detected, the 
range safety officer sent a radio signal to
destroy the Trident 2, but the missile may have 
destroyed itself before the signal got there, a 
statement said. Debris fell harmlessly into the 
Atlantic Ocean, it said.
Court Strikes DoWn 
Counsel Appointment
WASHINGTON (AP) — A federal appeals 
court, which struck down the judicial appoint- v. ' 
ment of independent counsels to investigate 
alleged misconduct by high government offi­
cials, agreed with a constitutional challenge 
that court appointment of special prosecutors 
violated the constitutional separation-of-pow- 
ers doctrine. ^
It was a 2-1 decision in the U.S. Circuit Court 
of Appeals in Washington.
The appeals court decision threatens the 
perjury conviction of former deputy White 
House chief of staff Michael Deaver, who was 
found guilty of lying under oath about his 
lobbying activities. Deaver may face a 15-year 
prison term when he is sentenced Feb. 25.
The court overturned the legal authority of 
independent counsel Alexia Morrison to in­
vestigate allegations that former Assistant 
Attorney General Theodore Olson had given 
false congressional testimony to a House 
subcommittee during a 1983 dispute over the 
government’s toxic-waste cleanup program.
Four Workers Win $28 
Million in Lottery
HARRISBURG (AP) — Four construction 
workers now can afford to put aside bricks and 
start stacking money after claiming a lottery 
worth more than $28 million. .
“I’m going to get drunk tonight,” said Gerald 
Welsh, a heavy equipment operator and one of 
the four lucky workers.
The men have been working together on a job 
site in suburban Harrisburg. It was the first 
time they had played the lottery together.
“Being 22, I don't know if it’s too early to 
retire or not,” said Todd Perry, whose brother j 
also collected a fourth of the jackpot.
After federal taxes, each will take home 
$216,139.16 in 26 annual payments. They 
picked up their first installment during a news 
conference at the Capitol.
News Briefs appear courtesy 
of Dow Jones, Inc.
Nassau/Paradise Island
/CANCUN, MEXICO \
O n SPRING BREAK ' J
FEBRUARY 27 - APRIL 10. 1988
WEEKLY DEPARTURES"™ $2 79.0 0
CONPLE1E PACKAGE INCLUDES!
• POUNDIP1P AIN FROM HE« VOPK, PHILADELPHIA AMO 00310» I IO »«ASSAU/
PAPA01SE 191 AND AND CANCÚN, MEXICO. DIME* CItlES AVAILABLE
• POUNOIPIP 1PANSTEPS FPOH AIPPOPf IO HOIEL.
• 1 MIGHtS HOIEL ACCOMHOOAIIONS.
• WFLCOME PUN 9MIZ/LE At MOST HOTELS (NASSAU)
• ONE HOUP PUH (NASSAU) OP IfOUILA (CANCÚN) PAPIV.
• lM*€e MOUII CAUIS« WITH UNL INI 110 WUH PUNCH AND ON tOAAD ENIEPIAINMfNT 
(NASSAU\PAPAOISE ISLAND).
• IHPfC etACH PAPIIES (ONE WIIH f PEE LUNCH) MUSIC AND ACUVIIIES (NASSAU)
• EXCLUSIVE 9 PEE ADMISSION IO I HE PALACE. MAIEPLOO ANO I*« DPUMSE AI 
CL UP (NASSAU).
• COLLEGE N€fK PPUGPAMS St I HE SAI«AHAS IOUPI9I OTEICE.
• ON LOCAIION PROFESSIONAL IOUP ESCOP I.

---------------------------------------------------

January 26,1988—The Tartan—Page 3
•Campus Groups Celebrate King’s Birthday
By CllRlS YOUNG 
Tartan Assistant News Editor 
In honor of Dr. Martin Luther King Jr.’s 
birthday, January 18, Spirit and C-MAP of­
fered a full day of events to remember and 
revitalize the dream of one of the world’s 
6 foremost civil rights leaders.
The celebration began at 9 am with David 
Bartlett, a history graduate student who spe­
cializes in Afro-American history,conducting 
a history workshop. Students and guests were 
exposed to the details of King’s dream includ­
ing its motivation and results in today’s world.
The events then continued with a flagpole 
vigil on the Cut. Participants read the “I Have 
A Dream” speech and sang songs such as the 
Negro national anthem and “We Shall Over­
come.”
*
*
Security Demonstrates Compusketch
By SHIZUKA OTAKE
Tartan Staffwriter
Last Thursday, Director of Campus Se­
curity James J. LaPaglia held a demonstra­
tion of “Compusketch,” a new software 
program for drawing sketches of criminals 
and suspects.
Pittsburgh’s police departments are 
going to start using computer composite 
programs in February. Carnegie Mellon’s 
security department is the first to get soft­
ware for sketching composites.
Until recently, campus security used 
“Identi-Kit” to sketch out drawings of 
criminals and suspects and put them into 
circulation around campus.
The kit is useful, but it takes an average of 
four hours to compile a drawing. Also, the 
kit cannot be bought but must be rented 
from Smith and Wesson each a year.
“Compusketch” can produce a compos­
ite in 30 to 90 minutes. The program starts 
by asking general questions about height, 
weight, age, etc. After many of these initial 
questions, the program produces a rough 
composite, which can then be manipulated 
to show details.
Besides the time factor, the program is 
convenient because it takes only about two 
hours to train officers in its use, which will 
allow many officers to know how to work 
the system. With the “Identi-Kit,” officers 
had to be sent for two days training to learn 
to use the system.
Only four officers could use the old 
system and crimes often happened while 
they were not on duty. The witnesses 
sometimes could not work immediately 
with security on a suspect composite while 
their memory was still sharp.
While the manual system was convenient, 
it only had hundreds of different features as 
opposed to the 100,000 different features 
available on “Compusketch.”
V isatex, the corporation that developed the 
program, estimated that there were 2 nonil- 
lion (a nonillion is a one followed by thirty 
zeros) faces that could be drawn with the 
program.
Last summer, after a series of rape inci­
dents in Oakland and Schenley Park, Secu­
rity felt that it needed a better method of 
distributing crime information to the cam­
pus.
BBN IS TELLING GRADUATES WHERE 10 GO...
3
/
for exciting careers, 
challenges, growth, 
and opportunities to 
work with clients and 
technologies that are 
ec lipsing the rest of the 
world. You could be 
working with some of the 
sharpest scientific minds 
in the areas of artificial 
intelligence, communi­
cations, life sciences, 
educational technology,
environmental and 
underwater acoustics, 
simulation and training 
systems, and a host of 
others.
So if you're an E.E.,
C.S., Applied Math or 
Physical Sciences Graduate 
(or soon to be one), we'd 
like a chance to tell you 
where to go. We are an 
Equal Opportunity 
Employer M/F/V/H.
Positions are also available in California, D.C., Kentucky, and Washington.
BBN Laboratories Incorporated
A Subsidiary of Bolt Beranek and Newman Inc.
Come meet us at CMU on February 1st.
The theme of this year’s celebration was 
“Reclaiming The Dream.” Barlett built on this 
theme saying, “We shouldn’t revel in the light 
of Dr. King as though he were an island, 
because no man is an island.”
After a short break, partakers gathered at the 
Wherrett room in Skibo Hall for a performing 
arts tribute in which various drama students 
staged excerpts from musicals of black heri­
tage. Among the audience was Carnegie Mel­
lon President Richard M. Cyert.
At the end of the day, all were invited to a 
memorial service and a reception. The evening 
was capped off with a candlelight vigil along 
the Cut.
Spirit leader Nicole Austin emphasized the 
great importance of honoring Dr. King’s birth­
day. ‘The things that Dr. King fought for were 
things for everyone—it isn ’ t just a holiday for 
black people.”
Since Carnegie Mellon decided to hold 
classes last Monday unlike most state schools, 
teachers were told that if students let them 
know ahead of time, they could attend the 
celebration without being penalized for miss­
ing classes.
Austin, however, “would like the university 
to offer more help with organizing the events 
in the future.” She hopes that next year CMU 
will be able to attract a nationally known 
speaker like the one the University of Pitts­
burgh had this year, Reverend Ralph Aber­
nathy, who was known as King’s right-hand 
man. By attracting such a speaker Austin 
hopes to have a much larger and more diverse 
crowd attending next year’s events.
As for this year’s turnout for the celebration, 
Austin says that, “for our first attempts we did 
a pretty good job.”
Reports from the National Urban League on 
the status of black Americans, says Austin, 
“show that it’s pretty dismal. A lot of people in
the 1980s, black people in particular, seem to 
think that the struggle is over and there’s 
nothing left to fight for. I come across a lot of 
people at this school who say ‘oh, there’s no 
prejudice at Carnegie Mellon, what do we 
need groups like Spirit for?’
“Racism,” says Austin, “isn’t like it was in 
the 1960s. It’s much more subtle now.” For 
instance, according to Austin, an extremely 
small percentage of black high school students 
in the Pittsburgh area go on to college.
Carnegie Mellon’s campus is seven percent 
black. The number of black incoming fresh­
man has been see-sawing for the last three 
years. The administration and admissions 
office, though, has now committed itself to 
attracting more black students. One part of 
these efforts is the next sleeping-bag week­
end, which will be geared toward black stu­
dents.
One of CMU’s problems according to Austin 
is its lack of black social organizations, such as 
fraternities and sororities or a black student 
union. From her own experience, Austin re­
calls that, “one of the first things that a black 
student will ask you when they’re looking at 
this school is ‘do you have black fratemitites 
or sororities?’ And when you tell them no, it’s 
obvious they’re thinking ‘I’m not coming 
here!’”
Many other universities have social organi­
zations for blacks, and create a comfortable at­
mosphere of fellowship that people often 
need, says Austin. Many of these black stu­
dents’ parents were members in such organi­
zations, enjoyed them and then told their chil­
dren of the benefits.
One of the top priorities of “Reclaiming The 
Dream,” Austin asserts, is for people to open 
their eyes and recognize that “things really 
haven’t changed that much...Racial injustice 
is just more subtle now.”
riAO FLVD riAO riAO riAO riAO riAO
MB’? FiaglïXIUm LMMim 
@1? TFIKIIi (S@1UQ AM® TOB 8MCTBTOmm
WLL tawp toi? w mmmi
THE PI LAMBDA PHI FRATERNITY WILL BE SENDING 2 PEOPLE 
ROUND TRIP TO ORLANDO, FLORIDA THIS WEEKEND! INTERESTED?
ALL YOU HAVE TO DO IS PURCHASE A RAFFLE TICKET FOR $1.00 
OUTSIDE DOHERTY HALL SOMETIME THIS WEEK. THEN, COME TO THE 
PILAM FLORIDA SUITCASE PARTY THIS FRIDAY NIGHT AT 10:00. 
(YOU DONT NEED A TICKET TO GET IN, BUT YOU MUST BE PRESENT 
TO WIN.) IF YOUR TICKET IS DRAWN, YOU WILL RECEIVE:
* TRANSPORTATION TO PITTSBURGH INTERNATIONAL AIRPORT *
* 2 ROUND TRIP AIRLINE TICKETS ON DELTA AIRLINES. *
* HOTEL ACCOMODATIONS FOR 2 AT THE ORLANDO HOLIDAY INN. *
(15 MINUTES FROM EPCOT CENTER )
* $75.00 IN SPENDING MONEY. *
YOU WILL BE LEAVING PITTSBURGH EARLY SATURDAY MORNING 
AND RETURNING MONDAY AFTERNOON. SO BUY YOUR TICKET SOON 
AND START PACKING YOUR JAMS AND SUNTAN OILI
MILAM'S jjyUTCASCi [PA53W8
PI LAMBDA PHI 1057 MOREWOOD
OnJa riAO nnJa riAO nnJa nuJa nuJa

---------------------------------------------------

Page A—The Tartan—January 26,1988
Crafton Man Arrested for Printer Theft
continued from page 1
son.
Snow was able to keep Morgan on the phone 
for nearly an hour, which gave Bell Security 
enough time to complete the trace.
Campus Police acquired a court order for
Bell Telephone to release the name of the
person under which the phone number was 
registered, and got that information on Jan 18. 
After acquiring a search warrant. Campus 
Police, accompanied by Crafton police, went 
to Morgan’s home and executed the warrant.
Nobody was home when the search was 
conducted. According to James J. LaPaglia, 
Director of Security and Chief of Campus 
Police, they found the LaserWriter in 
Morgan's bedroom along with a Macintosh 
SE and keyboard.
The SE and keyboard had been stolen from 
the office of John Maher in the SEI building in 
a burglary last October. They also found a 
Macintosh Plus that had been taken in a bur­
glary from the University of Pittsburgh; an 
Apple ImageWriter II from the third floor of 
Hunt Library; a keyboard stolen from a Mac 
SE in the Macintosh cluster of Hunt Library 
Concourse; and two boxes containing ap­
proximately 60 disks.
Commented LaPaglia, “after we had 
searched his apartment and seized all the 
material, we got an arrest warrant on three 
counts of theft and receiving stolen property. 
He was arrested and placed in the county jail, 
where he is at this time.”
The University of Pittsburgh is also pressing 
charges against Morgan, for a total of four 
counts of theft and receiving stolen property.
Morgan was apprehended by Crafton Police 
not long after the warrant was released. He has 
not yet been able to make bail, and so remains 
in the County Jail, according to LaPaglia. 
“There’s a chance that he may remain in jail 
until his case comes to criminal court, which 
could be several months.”
Morgan had been caught last summer by 
Peggy Seiden copying software applications 
in Hunt Library. He was asked to leave campus 
and told not to come back. At the time, he was 
working as a maintenance person at SEI under 
an independent contractor.
Recalls LaPaglia, “He had only been work­
ing there a couple of weeks when our people 
had him under surveillance for leaving the 
building at strange times. They thought he was
taking things and putting them in his car. That 
is apparently when he took the Macintosh SE.
“Our security guards had seen him acting 
suspiciously during his shift. He was seen 
leaving the building twice (they’re not al­
lowed to leave the building once they go in) 
and when confronted, he said he just needed 
some fresh air. We became very suspicious, 
and we staked out his vehicle, and when he 
came out to his vehicle at the end of work (we 
didn't know a computer had been taken at this 
time) he went to his vehicle, opened the trunk 
looked in the trunk, closed it, and went to meet 
two men on the street comer. He came back to 
the vehicle with the two men, and when he saw 
our people were in the area, he jumped in his 
vehicle with the two men and took off at high 
speed. We had no search warrant nor anything 
but suspicion; we had no concrete evidence 
that he had committed a crime.”
Morgan had been named as the prime suspect 
when Maher’s Macintosh SE had been re­
ported stolen. He had agreed to take a poly­
graph test, but never showed up for it. That day 
he had been dismissed from the cleaning crew 
for his suspicious activities and for violating 
work rules by leaving the building during the
Who Do You Call 
When You Want To 
Identify A Soccer 
Ball From 22 J00 Miles 
In Space?
A company called TRW. Here'S the story.
The U.S. Air Force asked us to build a ground-based 
electro-optical surveillance system that could identify 
an object the size of a soccer ball from 22,300 miles in 
space We did it, utilizing 3 telescopes and a large com­
puter system. Then they asked us to build four more 
Quite an achievement, but it's just one example of 
TRW's impact on the future.
TRW offers you the freedom to move among a wide 
variety of opportunities in microelectronics, high 
energy lasers, large software systems, communica­
tions, and scientific spacecraft. If you're majoring in 
engineering, computer science, math, or physics, and 
want to be with a company that's driving technology 
into the next century, it's not too soon to talk. Tomor­
row is taking shape at a company called TRW.
If you are unable to see us on campus, please send 
your resume to; TRW. College Relations, E2/4000,
One Space Park, Redondo Beach, CA 90278.
Because Anywhere Else Is Yesterday.
Equal Opportunity Employer 
U.S. Citizenship Required 
For Most Positions
TRW will be on 
campus February 
4-5, 1968. See 
your college 
placement office 
to slgn-up.
I
A Company Called TRW
day.
“The CMU police really did an excellent 
job,” said Harrison of this case. “They were 
very helpful and were right with us all along. 
This has been real exciting for everybody 
involved. Everybody’s been having a baJ) 
showing that a bunch of students can do some­
thing. Everybody really cooperated, things 
were fast-moving and a lot of fun. I’ve always 
wanted to be a detective from the time I was a 
little kid, and this one time I’ve had my hands - 
in an arrest really made me feel good.”
Harrison and Snow will be receiving letters *' 
of commendation for their action in this affair. 
Says LaPaglia, “Without their great assistance!) 
and willingness to get involved, we would 
have never recovered this property or made an 
arrest in this case so we commend them very 
highly for their actions. It shows that people 
can get involved when they are suspicious of 
activities. If they notify us, working together 
we can reduce a lot of criminal activities on 
this campus.”
MAC, CashStream 
Agree to Combine
continued from page 1
networks marks the creation of the United 
States’ second largest regional network. It is 
expected that this network will have more than 
11 million card holders and will handle some^j 
where in the neighborhood of 22 million 
monthly transactions. The new network will 
consist of about 4,300 ATMs.
The consolidation is expected to benefit the 
consumer as well as the two financial institu­
tions. The institutions benefit by helping to 
lower their network costs. It costs approxi­
mately $50,000 to install each machine and it 
requires an additional $30,000 to maintain. ^
Through the consolidation the waste of hav­
ing to build two separate ATMs side by side is 
eliminated. The consolidation of the two net­
works also benefits the cardholders of either 
system by giving them access to almost double 
the amount of ATMs.
At present Mellon Bank is targeting April 1 
to begin conversion to the MAC network. 
Work is expected to be completed by the end 
of 1988. 7
CashStream cardholders will be notified of 
the consolidation arid will be issued MAC 
cards if they so desire. Mellon Bank has not 
announced plans to charge cardholders for 
transactions.
htm ttmaopm mom
OOMNM Of f&M àMOOnJauaa“jaggy
I
XQ
Congratulations lo oar fred new sisters
¿Änna
<VMie
(De iSirma
Elizabeth 
17leather 
& 
rWe Imre yen all!
-Ute Siskn of Od Ovneja
I»

---------------------------------------------------

January 26,1988—The Tartan—Page 5
« SAMS Plans Rock-A-Like, 
Raffle for “Bust MS Month”
By ERIC W. LEULIETTE
Tartan News Editor
The National Multiple Sclerosis Society has 
declared February as “Bust MS Month”. In 
conjunction with this the Carnegie Mellon 
chapter of Students Against Multiple Sclero­
sis (SAMS) plans a variety of fund-raising ac­
tivities, including a raffle and an air band com­
petition.
The raffle will be geared toward Valentine’s 
Day. Prizes will include airline tickets and 
dinner for two at local restaurants.
The air band competition will be held Febru­
ary 22. The winner of the Rock-A-Like contest 
will proceed to a regional competition. Re­
gional winners will have a chance of appearing 
on Music Television.
The sponsor of the Rock-A-Like contest, 
Maxell Tapes, has a list of schools which are 
holding competitions. Maxell will select some 
colleges to hold promotions during the con­
test.
If Carnegie Mellon is selected, students here 
could be eligible for free tee-shirts and other 
giveaways.
According to SAMS chairperson Kris 
Stringer, Scotland Yard and Oakland busi­
nesses will be contributing to the fund-raising. 
Few details are available yet as to what the 
businesses will offer.
When Stringer was asked what role the fra­
ternities would play after a SAMS fund-raiser 
was busted by the Liquor Control Board, she 
said, “The fraternities will be really supportive 
of us, though they’ll really be cautious, of 
course....They’ll be helping us in other ways
— things that won’t get them in trouble.”
Two years ago the Rock-A-Like competition 
raised over $3,000. That year, Carnegie Mel­
lon lead the nation among colleges in fund­
raising for SAMS. No air band competition 
was held last year. The total goal for this year ’ s 
fund-raising is $30,000.
MS is a disease of the brain and spinal cord 
that interfere with the brain’s ability to control 
functions such as seeing, walking, etc.
CMU Among SDI Subcontractors
By ERIC W. LEULIETTE
Tartan News Editor
The Strategic Defense Initative Organiza­
tion announced Friday a billion dollar contract 
to develop a computer complex that will simu­
late defensive weapons systems to determine 
which are technically feasible.
Though the prime contractor is Martin Mari­
etta Corporation, Carnegie Mellon, Hughes 
Aircraft, and IBM are included as subcontrac­
tors.
The computer complex is expected to be
operational by the end of the decade. Located 
in Colorado Springs, it will employ over 2,300 
military and computer experts.
Plans include two Cray Research computers 
and an experimental supercomputer under 
development at IBM to be located at the Fal­
con Air Force Station complex.
The contract is worth $508 million over five 
years to Martin Marietta.
Critics of Star Wars contend that the results 
of the simulations can be manipulated to suit 
the Pentagon.
MorePizza Set to Begin Delivery Service
By KEI KURITA
Tartan Stajfwriter 
Starting February 1, MorePizza will 
begin providing delivery of certain menu- 
items to Hill area residence halls.
The decision to start this limited delivery 
service was made jointly by the Student 
Dormitory Council Food Committee and 
the Dining Service. Jim Guriy, Director of 
Dining Service, explains: “We have al­
ways been under the impression that the 
Hill area is the furthest from the pizza shop 
and that Morewood Gardens residence has 
a monopoly on access to the pizza shop. So 
we felt that the Hill would be the target.” 
Guriy points out that the objective is not 
to compete head to head with the off- 
campus pizza businesses like Domino’s 
and Four-Star Pizza, but merely to meet the 
demands of the pizza delivery service al­
ready existing on campus.
“There’s no question that there is a lot of
pizza being delivered to this campus...that 
demand is already there. Now the university is 
providing for that demand,” commented 
Guriy.
The delivery service will be available from 
7:30-11:30 pm. The procedures for placing an 
order will be similar to those practiced in other 
pizzerias. Students will order a pizza by call­
ing *6666 and giving a student identification 
number for payment by contract or Vali-dine. 
Upon delivery, they will be asked to show their 
ID for verification. Students may pay cash 
upon delivery as well.
The initial food items to be delivered will 
consist of sandwiches, pizza, and beverages. 
The beverages will be limited to new, 32 oz.- 
size fountain sodas (no Soho drinks). The 
pizza will be restricted in size as well: the 4- 
cut, personal size pies will not be available. 
Instead, the 8-cut and a new, 16", 12-cut pie 
will be offered.
Guriy is optimistic about this service. “I am
of the opinion that it will be extremely 
successful. I think we can match up fa­
vorably with the competition in terms of 
quality and value...it’s an opportunity for 
Dining Service to provide the students as 
well as staff of the university service that 
there is a high demand for.”
The Dining Service hopes that this is 
only the first step in expanding their serv­
ices. They expect to start delivery to fac­
ulty administration and staff buildings in 
the near future. “We expect to expand the 
times of day...ultimately we’d like to be 
delivering for lunch, dinner, and evening 
throughout the whole campus.
“We wanted to launch it with a directed 
target for students in a specific area of the 
campus that was furthest away...but very 
shortly we would like to see it expand 
during February, so that by March, we 
would like to be throughout the [entire] 
campus.”
Computer Science 
Early Masteries 
15-lxx
(to either Place-out or Retake)
will be offered
January 30th and 31 st
Sign-up Sheets available 
at the tutors’ desk, Wean 5419
(you can sign up for ONE session)

---------------------------------------------------

Carnegie Mellon University1987 Dickson Prize in Science
Dr. Mitchell J. Feigenbaum 
Professor, Rockefeller University
MDescriptions of Complex Objects”
4:30 auru 
y7,t7h,eco s7lideic 3,1988 
yf7ii7MM ACCro SmTlC (e)) 
weit7.T7 ­7))Ct jtTb7ihTMc
Dr. Joseph Z. Dickson, Pittsburgh Physician and Agnes Fisher Dickson, his wife, provided 
funds in their wills for Carnegie Mellon University to award a prize annually to a person or 
persons who have made outstanding contributions to the field of science in the United States 
of America.
Dr. Mitchell J. Feigenbaum is a theoretical physicist who earned his Ph.D. from MIT in 1970. 
Feigenbaum discovered that large classes of non-linear systems exhibit transitions to chaotic 
behavior which share certain characteristics that are universal and quantitatively measurable. 
His work has been acclaimed as the key which might unlock the mysteries surrounding 
perhaps the outstanding unsolved problem of classical physics, namely, the onset of turbu­
lence in fluids, as well as other instabilities in a wide variety of physical systems.
Presently at Rockefeller University, Feigenbaum continues to refine and generalize his original 
theory. Feigenbaum’s insights into chaotic behavior influence many aspects of physical 
science, mathematics and engineering.
The university is pleased to honor Dr. Mitchell J. Feigenbaum for his outstanding contribu­
tions to physics.
Free and Open to the Public
Merrill Lynch Capital Markets
Merrill Lynch Capital Markets 
Public Finance Group
cordially invites
Carnegie-Mellon Seniors
to attend an
Information Meeting
Wednesday, January 27, 1988 
7:00 p.m. - 9:00 p.m.
Skibo, Room 12
to discuss the
Two-Year 
Financial Analyst Program
Refreshments will be served
Menili Lynch
CIMlHIEft01E-MgQ.IL<l)M 
[?nMrâiMos)n taon) FmiaooMg
ON CAMPUS
The Financial Hid Office will be holding a series of forums on campus to discùss regulations and procedures for the 1988-1989 academic gear. Seueral changes will become effective for the 1988-1989 academic gear due to reauthorization of the Higher Education Hmendments of1986.
mpocs w Ta ajossaisssajs
1. Regulatory Changes
2. Application Format Roulsions
3. Application Procedures
4. Eligibility Requirements
In order to accommodate academic dess schedules, we ere 
offering four forums on the following degs:
DHTE: Thurs. January 14,h DHTE: Tues. .January 19th
TIME: 2-3 pm TIME: 4-5 pm
LOCHTION: UJherrett Room - Skibo LOCUTION: Wherrett Room - Skibo
DHTE: Wednesday, January 2Q,h DHTE: Thursday, February 4th
TIME: 6-7 pm TIME: 2-3 pm
LOCHTION: Porter Hall - 225C LOCHTION: UJherrett Room - Skibo
PLEHSE HTTEND HND ENC0UHH6E VOUH FRIENDS TO HTTENJL 
THIS WOOLD BE H GOOD OPPORTUNITY TO ASK HNY QUESTIONS YttIL 
MHY HHDE REGHRDING FINHNCIHL RID RT CRRNEGIE-MELLON*

---------------------------------------------------

January 26,1988—The Tartan—Page 7
Former “Tech House” Remains 
Temporary Housing for Students
By LILLY MANSOUR
Tartan Stajfwriter
Though the future of the former Tech House 
is yet to be decided, it has unexpectedly be­
come a home to some students.
In October, a hot water leak in two Margaret 
Morrison Apartments caused residents to 
vacate their apartments for six weeks in order 
for maintenance work to be carried out.
Housing offered these students temporary 
residence in the former Tech House and al­
though the repairs were completed in Decem­
ber, the students asked to stay on until the end 
of the semester to avoid the hassle and incon­
venience of moving near exam time.
The students also requested permission to 
stay on for the second semester. Tech House 
offers more space than the more modem 
Margaret Morrison Apartments.
The brown two-story building on Margaret 
Morrison Street next door to Donner Hall 
stands in the way of construction work that is 
due to begin this spring.
Tartan News Staff 
Meetings are 6 pm 
Mondays
New writers are always 
welcome. Call x2111 or 
come to the next meeting.
Architects involved with the new construc­
tion work said it was unnecessary to have the 
Tech House unoccupied until May. Because 
work around the area will not interfere with 
occupancy, permission was granted for the 
students to stay through second semester.
The position of the house is part of the site 
planned for the building of a dormitory/dining 
complex, which Carnegie Mellon plans to 
have completed by the fall of 1989.
In order to have the complex completed by 
the fall of 1989, architects recommend more 
aggressive construction at the end of the spring 
of 1988, which poses the problem of what to do 
with the old Tech House.
Although no decisions have been made yet, 
a few alternatives have been suggested. The 
easiest and cheapest alternative is to tear Tech 
House down. This alternative, however, has 
brought much opposition from student groups 
who feel the building should be preserved as a 
historical site.
To preserve the building would entail relo­
cating it to a different site and renovating it. 
The relocation and repair work would be ex­
tremely expensive, according to Anthony 
Martin, Director of Housing.
For twelve years, Tech House had been 
occupied by a Catholic group of around eight 
students. These students formed a cooperative 
community and put much time and effort into 
the facility.
Because housing was unsure of what would 
happen to the building this year, they proposed 
an alternative residence to the Catholic group, 
who moved in last fall.
Tech House currently resides in 15 Ros- 
elawn Terrace.
Crime and Incident Report
1/15 THEFT 3 pm Persons unknown 
stole a gray clutch-type wallet from a purse 
in a Warner Hall office. No money was 
taken, just a check book, university ID, 
driver’s license, and credit cards. While the 
victim was filling out the report, she was 
notified that a black female had attempted 
to cash checks on the victim's account.
1/15 FIRE 6:54 pm Report of smoke 
coming from window in Scobell Hall. 
Found ashtray had been emptied into a 
wastepaper basket.
1/16 THEFT 2:10 am Persons unknown 
entered a room in UCC and removed an 
Apple LaserWriter. Value: $3,370.
1/16 SPECIAL 2:27 am Person passed 
out in car parked in Skibo Lot. His keys 
were confiscated. Another student took 
responsibility of him for the night.
1/16 CRIMINAL MISCHIEF 9:55 am 
Persons unknown broke a window in the 
Theta Xi fraternity.
1/16 SPECIAL 6:32 pm Student called a 
PCon in BH 140 inquiring how to connect 
an Apple LaserWriter. PCon contacted 
Security, which arranged a trace on the 
line.
1/18 THEFT REPORT 1:49 am Persons 
unknown in CFA stole $110 worth of art 
supplies. A lock was forced off the locker 
the supplies were stored in.
1/18 RECOVERY Cratfton police con­
tacted and obtained warrent to search resi­
dence for LaserWriter. Removed from 
house: LaserWriter taken from UCC, an 
ImageWriter from Hunt, and an Macintosh 
SE from SEI. Arrest warrant for Fred
Morgan issued. He was later picked up by 
Crafton police.
1/19 SPECIAL 1:14 pm While making 
rounds a traffic monitor found an illegal, 
homemade sticker on a vehicle. The ve­
hicle was towed from the lot.
1/19 THEFT 4:30-5:30 pm Persons un­
known in Margaret Morrison Carnegie 
Hall removed a blue and red wallet from a 
gyrij bag under a table. Taken were credit 
cards and personal notes.
1/20 HARRASSMENT BY COMMU­
NICATION 12:34 am Victim states she 
had been receiving harrassing phone calls 
for a week. The caller whispers into the 
phone. She has no idea who it is.
1/20 UNAUTHORIZED PERSONS 
3:06 am Pitt Police reported seven people 
around the CMU construction site on 
Boundary Street. The seven'were identi­
fied and stated they were just looking 
around. Some tools were found around the 
gate they were stopped at.
1/20 UNAUTHORIZED PERSONS 
5:12 pm Security received a call that per­
sons unknown were on the second floor 
roof of CFA. They were identified and 
reminded of the procedures about roofs.
1/21 CRIMINAL ATTEMPT 10:29 
pm Bureau of Mines officer stopped two 
students with a wire cable spindle, ap­
proximately 6 feet in height. The two were 
identified and stated that someone else 
had taken it and that they were just pushing 
it. They also stated that they were going to 
use the spindle as a table. The spindle was 
returned to where it belonged.
Sweepstakes 
Buggy
Always wanted to get involved with buggy, but not sure how to do it — 
well, here’s your chance. 
The Sweepstakes Committee is looking for a Design Chairperson and a Buggy Book 
Chairperson. There is no pay for these positions, but the experience and thrill of 
buggy is worth it!!!! 
Applications can be filled out below and turned in at the Student Activities Desk in 
the Sweepstakes Mailbox. Deadline for Applications is 5:00 pm Friday, January 29th.
Name:_______________________________________________________________________
Phone Number:______________________________________________________________
Class and Major:___________________________________________________________—
Any Affilliations:-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------—
Which position are you interested in:______________________________________
Why are you interested in this position:_______________________________________

---------------------------------------------------

Editorial
[t’s About Time For r 24 Hour Campus
After all the talk, it’s about time the Administration starts 
oing something. They say they care, they say they’re con- 
emed — so put up or shut up.
For three years, The Tartan has been screaming for a 24 hour 
ampus. Carnegie Mellon students work 24 hours; they de- 
land 24 hour service.
There have been some changes: the library is now open longer 
nd the Counseling Center is open later, but you still can’t even 
et a sandwich past 2:00 or a pizza past 12:00 without leaving 
ampus.
i Is it unreasonable to ask for a dining facility, convenience 
tore, gym, and health center that remains open all night? The 
’ acilities are there; hire a few people to staff them.
If the administration really wants to improve the “quality of 
tudent life,” it’s going to have to start caring about individual 
tudents rather than their $16, 000 tuition bills.
Maybe Someday, AB...
AB, you came close — unfortunately close isn’t quite good 
enough.
Last Saturday night, AB Coffeehouse sponsored a comedian 
n the Wherrett Room, AB Concerts and WRCT sponsored a 
‘Dark Gothic Rock Concert” in the Ballroom, and SDC Films 
;howed Lost Boys in DH2210. That’s enough to appeal to even 
he most diverse interests of the Carnegie Mellon community. 
AB, you were doing your job; finally, you were doing your 
ob... almost.
Why does, arguably, the best comedian to visit the campus in 
wo years, David Naster, get stuck performing in the cramped 
vVherrett Room while a Gothic Rock concert blasts from the 
Ballroom and a lounge singer performs in Scotland Yard? 
Naster should not have had to audibly compete with neither 
be concert nor the lounge singer. If the activities could not be 
staggered in time so they didn’t conflict, then Naster should 
lave performed in another room.
As a matter of fact, Naster should have performed in another 
*oom anyway. The Wherrett Room was too small. People were 
standing in the doorway, along the walls and in the aisles. 
Naster was an excellent performer; he should have been 
xeated as such.
This shows poor planning and a lack of communication on 
your part, AB. Maybe someday...
Shape up, Tartan Grill
We of CMU are subject to a most insidious form of experimen­
tal science that is going on under our noses - and on our Dining 
Service trays. We were barely forewarned of the impending 
testing by suspicious yellow signs that appeared at the begin­
ning of the semester proclaiming the bizarre modification. 
Suddenly, the unthinkable has happened; they’ve changed the 
french fries at the Tartan Grill.
The new fries and new sizes have caused considerable conster­
nation among Grill patrons. “They’re greasier...chunkier,” 
proclaimed one befuddled gourmand. Another partaker struck 
to the heart of the matter, stating simply, “It’s like they tried to 
imitate ‘O’ fries, but couldn’t quite manage it.”
Face it, CMDS, you just can’t supply us with ‘O’ fries on 
campus unless you arrange for delivery service. It’s not through 
any fault of yours; those Oakland delicacies are impossible to 
replicate. What we’re left with are perhaps healthier (unskin­
ned) and larger versions of your previous edition - sadly, no 
great improvement.
The Tartan Grill, on occasion, seems to deliberately try to 
confuse the customer, now trying to decide between two near­
identical sizes of fries. And the milkshakes - they're just too 
dam big. Impossible to finish in less than an hour or so, the 
shake fan is left sipping warm, sweet, flavored milk, and 
nobody enjoys that. Clarity in fast food! C’mon, Tartan Grill, 
shape up.
IQ*-01 AM AMD ANOTHER SWVIN6 
AU, -
A Legal Guide to Living Off-Campus
Editor:
“Every landlord shall within thirty 
days of termination of a lease ... 
provide a tenant with a written list of 
any damages to the leasehold prem­
ises for which the landlord claims 
the tenant is liable. Delivery of this 
list shall be accompanied by the 
payment of the difference between 
any sum deposited in escrow, in­
cluding any unpaid interest thereon, 
for payment of damages to the lease­
hold premises and the actual amount 
of damages to the leasehold prem­
ises caused by the tenant. If the land­
lord fails to pay this difference... the 
landlord shall be liable to double the 
amount of the security deposit... as 
determined by any court of record 
having jurisdictions in civil actions 
at law. Failure of the tenant to pro­
vide the landlord with his new ad­
dress in writing upon termination of 
the lease shall relieve the landlord 
from any liability under this sec­
tion.” — Purdoris Pennsylvania 
Statutes Annotated, Title 68, 
250.512.
When the landlord of a privately 
owned dwelling failed to return the 
security deposit of several CMU 
students, he was brought to court 
and forced to pay twice the initial 
security deposit to the students. 
These students lived conscien­
tiously and responsibly. They en­
joyed their stay and had good rela­
tions with the landlord. They paid all 
the rent and provided the landlord 
with several forwarding addresses. 
So what went wrong? Why did rea­
sonable and honest student tenants 
have to resort to the law in order to 
have their security deposit returned?
One might think that this is just a 
case of an irresponsible landlord. 
Since students are often ignorant of 
their rights and responsibilities, 
landlords can take advantage of 
them with little risk or effort. If 
brought to court, students are un­
likely to be well prepared, if they 
show up at all. Usually, upon leaving 
the dwelling, they will scatter all 
over the United States, never to be 
heard from again.
On the other hand, one might also 
wonder if there were anything the 
students did to provoke their land­
lord. In fact, students in general, and 
especially undergraduates, have a 
reputation for being the worst ten­
ants. They are often noisy, careless, 
destructive, unreliable, and irre­
sponsible. One of the main reasons 
CMU housing is so expensive in 
relation to privately owned units is 
the enormous maintenance and re­
pair needed to maintain student 
occupied units and the surrounding 
grounds.
Unfortunately, being a tenant can 
be difficult for students, responsible 
or not, since many landlords not 
only take precautions against them, 
but try to take advantage of them as 
well. Most students know little if 
anything about their rights as tenants 
and how to conduct legal relation­
ships in general. Following is a list 
of actions tenants can and should 
perform to facilitate landlord-tenant 
interaction or, for that matter, any 
formal legal interaction:
• Monetary exchanges should be 
performed with checks, recorded, 
and then filed away when the
cancelled checks are returned.
• All correspondence should be 
duplicated and filed away, and then 
should be sent by certified mail, re­
turn receipt requested. Return re­
ceipts should also be filed.
• Agreements by telephone are 
NOT legally binding, so all legal 
agreements should be put in writing 
and signed. However, it is still a 
good idea to record the date, time, 
speakers and transcript of any tele­
phone conversation involving legal 
matters.
• Prospective tenants should ask 
that a clause be put in the lease which 
states that the landlord and occu­
pants will jointly inspect the prem­
ises upon occupancy, and will 
jointly sign a checklist of the prem­
ises’ condition at that time. In this 
manner, the tenant will be less likely 
to be charged for damages which 
were there before moving in. Photo­
graphs of the unit upon occupancy 
are also helpful.
•Finally, for any CMU student 
continued on page 9
AB Accused of Racial 
Insensitivity Over Movie
Editor:
The one thing which is not needed 
on the Campus of Camegie Mellon 
University, or any other university 
in America for that matter, is the 
willful provocation of racial tension 
through the insensitive and irrespon­
sible acts of the Activities Board.
On January 14 of this year, the 
closest date to Martin Luther King’s 
Birthday on which films are shown 
on our campus, the activities board 
selected the film “Birth of a Nation” 
to be shown in their regular enter­
tainment series. “Birth of a Nation” 
is an early film which was done in 
blackface and shows the decline of 
the old south until the Ku Klux Klan 
rushed in and “saved” white Amer­
ica in the end.
This film was so offensive, even in 
its own time, that it was banned from 
most northern movie theaters. In the 
1980s, when the United States is still 
struggling with the question of how
we can all live together in a multi­
racial society, the film is even more 
offensive and it does not help the 
social environment on CMU’s cam­
pus.
To show the film at any timeduring 
the year as entertainment and unre­
lated to social, historical, or film 
study, is, at the very least, irrespon­
sible. To show the film as the Activ­
ity Board’s response to Martin Lu­
ther King’s Birthday is both insensi­
tive and provocative.
So long as the Activity Board 
makes film selections such as this, 
they show themselves as being inca­
pable of reflecting the interests of 
the general student body. There is a 
clear need for intervention and over­
sight in the film selection process so 
that provocations of this type will 
not occur again.
Matt Hawkins 
Applied History

---------------------------------------------------

January 26,1988—The Tartan—Page 9
(Inquiring Minds Present: A Day in the Life of an LCB Agent
By THE INQUIRING STAFF
Name: John Sampson
Occupation: Liquor Control Board Agent,
3rd class.
Age: 34
Residence: Mom and Dad’s house
5:00 am: “...You have 20 seconds to drop 
Cfc/our beer or I will take action,” intones the 
robot. The young executive drops his beer. 
“ You now have 15 seconds to drop your beer,” 
drones the robot. “You have 10 seconds to 
comply. 5 seconds. Resistance is useless. You 
have the right to be cuffed with a Hefty Steel- 
Sack.” (Another fine 
job by Robo- 
LCBCop)
7:30 am: Wakes up 
to Mickey Mouse 
clock radio playing his favorite Pat Boone 
tune. Says to himself, “Wow, Pat’s on. It’s 
going to be a gold star day.”
7:45 am: Mom has his Cream of Wheat 
ready. “Sorry Mom, but no time to eat. 
Today’s the BIG day: We’re bustin’ those rich 
CMU snots.”
£f 9:30 am: Arrives at work. The PAT buses 
have all been polished and shined. He gets
By MICHAEL WITBROCK &
MICHAEL FRANZINI
j On January 18th the nation celebrated the 
birthday of Rev. Dr. Martin Luther King Jr. 
For the past three years, America has formally 
honored a man who gave hope to those whose 
hopes were denied, pride to those whose pride 
was crushed. For the past three years, America 
has honored a man who inspired a generation 
with his dream. For the past three years, 
America has continued to let the dream 
crumble and the hope fade.
In the last three years we have seen the Presi­
dent turn civil rights into “special interests”.
We have seen a vig­
ilante win his case on 
the claim that young 
black men are intrinsi­
cally frightening. We 
have seen a newly conservative Supreme 
^ Court conserve the death penalty despite clear 
evidence that it is used disproportionately 
often against blacks. We have seen a govern­
ment which refuses to impose any sanctions 
against South Africa it thinks might have an 
effect. We have followed a Presidential race in 
which Jesse Jackson’s colour is still consid­
ered a major impediment to his chances of 
success. We have heard two national sports 
^ personalities publically airing their racist 
opinions, and people who should know better 
defending them. We have seen all these things, 
but, perhaps worst of all, we see the hypocrisy 
of a nation trumpeting civil right whilst blacks 
remain, in Dr. King’s words, “Impoverished 
aliens in an affluent society.”
In 1967, whites were twice as likely to be 
enrolled in college as blacks; in 1985 the figure 
^ was down to one and a half times as likely, 
according to a recent New York Times article. 
In 1968, the rate of black unemployment was 
twice that for whites; last year the black unem­
ployment rate was two and a half times that for 
whites. In 1968, the median white family 
earned one and two thirds the income of the 
median black family; in 1986 they earned one 
and three quarters times as much. In 1968, 
^ 34.7% of the black population lived below the 
poverty line; in 1986, after 18 years of civil 
rights, the figure was 31.1%. As Dr. King 
observed shortly before his death, it does no 
good to be able to eat in a restaurant if you have 
no money to pay for a hamburger.
After 20 years of civil rights, why are there 
plenty of black people emptying trash and 
serving fries at Carnegie Mellon, precious few 
^ black undergrads, and almost no black grad
excited.
10:00 am: “Hey Frank, did you remember to 
call Channel 11 about tonight’s bust?” 
“Damn! No, I forgot all about it, John.” 
“Well, make that call, and make sure Edye 
Tarbox shows up. She’s one hot box.”
11:30 am: Lunch at his favorite restaurant: 
the in-store deli at the Ross Township K-Mart. 
12:30 pm: He buffs the buses one more time. 
1:00 pm: Trip to Oakland for a warm-up: the 
weekly raid on Zelda’s.
2:00 pm: Killing time...
“Frank, you ever sniffed rubber cement? It’s 
even better than glue.”
2:02 pm: “Frank, you think this one will 
compare to the great busts: Shadyside Acad­
emy in ’83, Triangle Tech in ’79, or Pennsyl­
vania Academy of Cosmetologists back in 
’74? What happens if no one shows up?” 
“Would you relax John? My neighbor’s kid 
goes to CMU. There’s nothing there but frat 
parties.”
3:00 pm: The rubber cement runs out. After 
experimenting with scotch tape and staples, 
they move to Lysol.
4:00 pm: “Frank, I’m running up to the Giant 
Eagle for some garbage bags. We used ‘em all
students or faculty members? After 20 years of 
civil rights, why does the CMU police crime 
and incident report mention the skin colour 
only of black perpetrators; why does it men­
tion the skin colour of anybody at all?
In his election campaign, President Reagan 
told us that our future was bright, that it was 
“Morning time in America.” If Dr. King were 
at the breakfast table he might well ask, 
“Where are our brothers and sisters who are
Conservative Corner...
By THOMAS HEIM
The Jan. 19 Tartan Editorial “All the News 
the Principal Sees Fit To Print” completely 
missed the point of the common sense Su­
preme Court decision in Hazelwood School 
District v. Kuhlmeier. The editorial asserted 
that a principal with the power to prevent 
controversial articles from being printed ef­
fectively stunted the purpose of a school 
newspaper, to “provide a window on pertinent 
issues in an as objective and fair a manner as 
possible.” Indeed, this may be a part of the 
purpose of a school newspaper, but it is not the 
sole purpose, and the powers the court be­
stowed on the principal are essential.
A school newspaper left unchecked to print 
the “free speech” of students is a weapon left 
to individuals who cannot be held responsible 
for its use. Those responsible for the harm 
done with the weapon 
would be the taxpay­
ers. The government 
cannot prevent the 
New York Times 
from printing slanders, but the government 
can levy punishments appropriate for such 
crimes, most likely monetary damages. A 
school newspaper that injures an individual 
student, group of students, teachers or anyone 
is a product of a school funded by public 
money. Damages won against the newspaper 
must come from the back pocket of the local 
taxpayers. The role of the principal is to re­
strict material that is harmful or slanderous to 
prevent this kind of catastrophe. To provide a 
forum for objectivity is good for practicing 
journalists, but the lessons of ethics cannot be 
learned the hard way, and the Supreme Court 
has recognized this, correctly ruling for the 
powers of the principal.
The Tartan Editorial asks “Where do we 
draw the line?” and nothing could be simpler
last week at IUP.”
“Hey John, since you’re going, let’s splurge 
on one of their pizzas for dinner!”
5:00 pm: The waiting begins; on the TV is 
“Fight Back with David Horowitz.” Phone 
rings...
“Hello? Oh,-hi Mom ... Sure. Yeah, I think 
the guys would love it. Watch for me on 
Channel 11. I’m going to be on with Edye 
Tarbox!”
“Guys, guess what. My mom’s going to 
bring by some Marshmallow Squares she just 
made.”
6:00 pm: “Pittsburgh LCB Office. No I’m 
sorry Mr. Rivera, Channel 11 has the exclusive 
broadcast rights to tonight’s raid. If it’s really 
a problem, we can schedule one at Duquesne 
tomorrow night for you.”
6:30 pm: “Hey, Frank! My mom brought the 
squares and our favorite game, Chutes and 
Ladders. There'll be no problem staying up 
now.”
9:00 pm: Meets the fire marshall at a firing 
range to squeeze off a couple of practice 
rounds, just in case.
10:00 pm: Goes to the Appliance Store to buy 
a Silkworm, just in case.
locked out, pressed down, broken, harmless, 
jobless, denied dignity — how can we really 
be better off until they are?”
Instead of celebrating the birth of the Rev. 
Dr. Martin Luther King Jr., perhaps we should 
have a national holiday‘remembering his 
death. If we, as a nation, cannot understand 
why Dr. King fought and cannot embrace the 
cause for which he died, then his great dream, 
and millions of smaller dreams, will die too.
to answer. A self-sufficient newspaper has the 
right to print anything it wants to. A subsidized 
newspaper must realize that its backers could 
be held responsible for its content and the 
subsidizers must undertake to protect them­
selves. In the case of public schools, the locally 
elected School Committee must appoint a 
principal who will do the job himself or dele­
gate the job responsibly. Let us hope that one 
day CMU’s tuition rate will not have to be 
raised to compensate for a large lawsuit won 
against an overzealous Student Union re­
porter.
People who work for subsidized newspa- 
continued on page 11
HERBLOCK’S CARTOON
10:30 pm: Edye Tarbox enters make-up.
12:50 am: “Hello, Pittsburgh LCB. What do 
you mean Edye can’t make it? Her face broke 
out in hives during makeup. No, we don’t want 
Dennis Bowman instead. Look, we turned 
down Geraldo Rivera for you guys!”
1:10 am: “Well Frank, we’re here at Delta 
Oops — no, we want Delta Tau Delta.”
1:25 am: They enter Pika and try to cut the 
phone lines. They succeed in setting off the 
More wood $100,000 alarm system. Three 
hundred people sigh, “Oh hell, not another fire 
alarm.”
1:45 am: A girl tries to escape by climbing 
out a bathroom window. She is gunned down 
in front of Sigma Nu.
2:30 am: PAT buses depart. “Gosh Frank, 
aren't they beautiful?”
2:35 am: After television debut, John real­
izes his fly has been open all day.
4:00 am: The entire LCB gang goes down to 
PHI to celebrate a successful mission with 
Rolling Rock.
The inquiring Staff is S. Levine, t, C.
Williams, and R. Wilson.
Know Your Off 
Campus Rights
continued from page 8
interested in renting privately owned 
units, it is advisable to speak with Norma 
D. Shaw, Community Housing Coordi­
nator, located at the Morewood Gardens 
Library. There is an abundance of infor­
mation containing much helpful advice.
The moral of this story is: Upon enter­
ing a legal relationship, such as the land- 
lord-tenant relationship, it is not enough 
to act responsibly and “reasonably”. Jt is 
necessary to be aware of and follow the 
letter of the law, to be organized, to act 
professionally, and to keep careful rec­
ords. In this manner, protection under 
the law is maximized, the chance for a 
legal dispute to occur is minimized, and 
most of the worry associated with legal 
relationships disappears.
Joe Golton
The Tartan
Editor-in-Chief_________________Karl Barnhart
Business Manager..........................Russ Seligman
News Editor_____________.....Eric W. Leuliette
Assistant News Editor .....................Chris Young
Features Editors______________Howdy Pierce
Judy Haraburda
Sports Editor........................................Josh Ruben
Assistant Sports Editor..................Stewart Levine
Diversions Editor............................Michael Rose
Assistant Diversions Editor...........Bruce Kasrel
Photo Assignment Editor.............Andy Gillespie
Art Editor.............................Grant Carmichael
Literary Editor..........................Michele Osherow
Production Manager................Dustin L. Fra/ier
Copy Editor..................................David N. Levy
Contributing Editors..........................................
Glenn Schuster Neil Greenblum
Albrecht T. Powell John Friedmann
Drue Miller
The Tartan is the student newspaper of Carnegie Mellon University It is a weekly newspaper, published by students each Tuesday during the fall and spring semesters, at no cost to members of the university community It is printed by Typecraft Press Inc. Subscriptions are available for $ 15 per semester. $25 per year The Editorial appearing at the beginning of the opinion section is the official opinion of The Tartan editorial board Columns are the opinions of individual au­thors who are not necessarily on The Tartan editorial board or staff Letters to the Editor are opinions of individual authors who are usually members of the University community A letter intended for publication must be signed and include the wnter s address and phone number for verification Names will be withheld upon request The Tartan reserves the right to condense or reject any letter or column Copyright © 1988 by The Tartan The editorial board reserves the nghl to withhold from publication any copy it deems unfit for publication
Office: Skibo 50 (412)268-2111 
Mailing address: The Tartan / Box 17 / Carnegie 
Mellon University / Pittsburgh. PA 15213 
Funded in part by the Activities Fee All rights 
reserved. Library of Congress ISSN #: 0890-3107.
Left Turn...Martin Luther King’s “Special Interest”
All Speech Should Not Be Free

---------------------------------------------------

THE NCR $300,000 STAKEHOLDER 
ESSAY COMPETITION FOR STUDENTS
ry7,nttnah ry7 eyJcc7ho7 ry7slc7t
NCR
rainh
We’re so committed to our mission 
that we’re encouraging the next 
generation of leaders to re-examine 
America’s business values. We’re 
doing this by holding the NCR 
Stakeholder Essay Competition 
which all full-time undergraduate 
and graduate college or university 
students may enter. Entries should 
explore the topic: “Creating Value 
for All Stakeholders in 
Corporations and/or Not-for-Profit 
Organizations.”
The student chosen as the first 
place winner will be awarded 
$50,000 cash. Plus, the entrant’s 
school will receive $100,000 in 
NCR data processing equipment. 
The second place winner will 
receive $15,000 cash and the 
entrant’s school will receive $35,000 
in equipment. One hundred $1,000 
awards of merit will be given to 
chosen participants. In addition, 
selected award-winning entrants 
will be invited to atterid the first 
NCR International Symposium on 
Stakeholders to be held June 9 & 10, 
1988, in Dayton, Ohio.
1) The NCR Stakeholder Essay Competition is open 
to any full-time undergraduate or graduate student 
attending an accredited college or university in the 
United States or its territories.
2) Entries must be original, unpublished work on 
the topic: “Creating Value for All Stakeholders in 
Corporations and/or Not-for-Profit Organizations.”
Essays must not exceed 3,000 words. Areas of **
discussion may include, but are not limited to: Ethics, 
Corporate Governance, Strategic Management, Social 
Responsibility, or Managing Change as these topics 
relate to managing for stakeholders.
3) Entries must be typed, double-spaced on 8 Vi" x 11" 
bond paper, one side only. A separate cover sheet 
should list the entrant’s name, school, home address 
and title of the essay. Subsequent pages should be 
numbered sequentially and include the essay title in 
the upper right margin. Winners will be required to 
produce proof of current full-time college or university 
enrollment.
4) All entries must be postmarked by March 31, 1988, 
and received by April 15,1988 to be eligible for 
consideration. Submit entries to: NCR Stakeholder 
Essay Competition, NCR Corporation, Stakeholder 
Relations Division, Dayton, Ohio 45479. NCR is not 
responsible for, and will not consider, late, lost or 
misdirected entries.
5) In the event any prize winner is a minor, the cash 
award will be made to his/her parent or guardian.
6) Awards to individuals will be reported as income on 
IRS Form 1099. All taxes are the responsibility of 
the recipients.
7) Award winners will be required to sign publicity 
releases and affidavits of eligibility and compliance 
with all rules governing the competition. Failure to 
return executed affidavits and releases within 15 days 
of receipt will cause the award to be null and void.
8) All entries become the property of NCR and will not 
be returned.
9) By participating in this competition entrants agree to 
these rules and the decisions of the judges which 
shall be final in all respects, and further agree to the 
use of their names, likenesses and entries for NCR 
advertising and publicity purposes without any further 
compensation.
To ed7Ju7 il7
At NCR, we’ve found that in 
order to create value, we must first 
satisfy the legitimate expectations 
of every person with a stake in our 
company. We call these people our 
stakeholders, and we attempt to 
satisfy their expectations by 
promoting partnerships in which 
everyone is a winner.
• We believe in building mutually 
beneficial and enduring relationships 
with all of our stakeholders, based 
on conducting business activities 
with integrity and respect.
• We take customer satisfaction 
personally: we are committed to 
providing superior value in our 
products and services on a continuing 
basis.
• We respect the individuality of 
each employee and foster an 
environment in which employees' 
creativity and productivity are 
encouraged, recognized, valued and 
rewarded.
• We think of our suppliers as partners 
who share our goal of achieving the 
highest quality standards and the 
most consistent level of service.
• We are committed to being caring 
and supportive corporate citizens 
within the worldwide communities 
in which we operate.
• We are dedicated to creating value 
for our shareholders and financial 
communities by performing in a 
manner that will enhance the return 
on their investments.
State and territorial judges will consist of panels that 
include NCR stakeholders. Final selections will be made 
from state and territory winners by a national panel 
of judges.
If clarification is necessary, call (513) 445-1667,8am-5pm 
EST.
Award winners will be notified on or about May 16,1988. 
To obtain a list of finalists, send a self-addressed, stamped 
envelope to:
NCR Stakeholder Essay Competition 
NCR Corporation 
Stakeholder Relations Division 
1700 South Patterson Boulevard 
Dayton, Ohio 45479
NCR’s Mission: Create Value for Our Stakeholders

---------------------------------------------------

January 26 1988—The Tartan—Page 11
Senate’s Semester Starts
e
o
Senate, Condoms, and Esperanto; 
A Few Words from the President
Welcome back to classes and a heavy work­
load. Why is it that even when our break is a 
week longer, it still felt like it was over too 
fast? As you get back to your work, take a 
minute and look around the campus. Do you 
see any problems around you? Either big or 
small, Student Senate wants to hear about 
them. There are 
many committees on 
Senate that look into 
problems that you 
bring to them. You 
can bring your complaints to any Senate 
meeting. They are held every Tuesday at 7:00 
in the Wherrett room in Skibo and are open to 
all. You can also bring them to the Senate 
office, room 49 in Skibo; or you can leave a 
written idea or suggestion at the information 
desk.
Some of your ideas and suggestions that 
Senate have brought into action include fund­
ing for new speakers for Doherty 2210 for 
movies (though not put in yet, they should be 
in by mid-semester). This is one more im­
provement to our classroom-movie theater. 
Other improvements have included the art 
hazard problems which exist in many of the 
studios. Senate brought this issue to campus 
awareness, which led to the Art Hazard Fo­
rum, and finally to many of these problems 
being fixed.
One suggestion to offer a beginning class in 
how to use the Andrew system became a 
reality this semester. This class will let many 
upperclassmen, who don’t know how to use 
the Andrew system, learn how to use it for 
many of their classes.
Senate has also worked with housing to bring
about changes in the policy for room enterings 
by outsiders, like physical plant. This includes 
a 24 hour notice of anyone who will be enter­
ing your room. Senate has also had condoms 
placed in the cigarette machines located in 
dorms, for your easy usage.
The Academic Freedom Committee also had 
input from both a resolution from Senate and 
Senate participants to help open the campus to 
free speech. There was also a lecture series 
sponsored directly from Senate, called the 
Last Lecture Series. It let faculty and adminis­
trators give a speech as if it were the last lecture 
they could give. It could be on any topic; as 
examples, one lecture was on the language 
Esperanto, another was on terrorism.
There are many on-going projects that Sen­
ate is also working on, including getting better 
traffic control on Morewood, and working to 
get a teaching course for TAs to attend at the 
beginning of the semester. Senate is also 
working to bring Student Advisory Councils 
to all departments.
If you have any other ideas to help improve 
our campus bring them to Senate, don’t just sit 
around and complain because then your prob­
lems will never get fixed. If you are interested 
in Senate or helping get a problem fixed on 
campus, stop by at a Senate meeting. They will 
be happy to get your help. Good luck this 
semester and stop by one of the Senate meet­
ings.
Andrew Robitshek,
Student Government President
ONLY 3 MORE SLEEPING WQ WEEK.ENPS
The- STRIM4 4 ftACi ¿AMPAfcjM &
R5K. At>MiTi©> t’TVt&JT4* OF ALL MATôPA. 
WE K1E£P YOL)K HEJJ* n> MAKE. THK» ASjwwBSS y7,t heco s kFppBA 
&EF0RE SUPPLIES RUN OUT.
'fbviLKUMfc,
___ z'v ICA/& Tt> JAKJ. ?>l.
, :pp U5Æ 7t> £f|\Æ ATov^ 3XKJ.
, £t> i-£A/£: T& APItlL I ¿HI
_____j'p toV& -rt> ByCAR Ami.
jV? IoV& TZ> ATRJU 7J5^2J0
^ TO qive Aie**. ATRIC ‘I&'2.t'f2r5r*)
v 10^2. .
"ITS NICE TO SEETHC KIPS LEARN 1^6 THE 
AME1RKAM\W
HERBLOCK’S CARTOONConservative 
Corner Defends 
Supreme Court
continued from page 9
pers, be they high school papers, college pa­
pers, or city newsletters are not working under 
the same right to free speech as one handing 
out Marxist leaflets. The person who pays for 
the distribution, printing and other resources of 
the paper can control what goes into it. The 
New York Times doesn't have a “high school 
principal” but it does have at the head of the 
operation an Editor who has been trusted with 
protecting the paper from damaging lawsuits 
by limiting dangerous articles. The Supreme 
Court has made a common sense ruling in this 
case; free speech is made by those who can be 
held accountable for what harm or good it 
does.
AEROSPACE ENGINEERING 
GEORGIA INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY
Major areas of graduate study and research (M.S. & Ph.D)
Aerodynamics
Aeroelasticity
Combustion
Conputational Fluid Dynamics 
Computer-Aided Design
Flight Mechanics & Controls 
Propulsion
Rotary Wing Technology 
Structural Dynamics 
Structures - Composites
RESEARCH FELLOWSHIPS AND ONE-THIRD TO 
ONE-HALF TIME RESEARCH ASSISTANTSHIPS ARE AVAILABLE
Financial aid per calander year:
$8,000 - $13,500 plus tuition and fees
All graduate students will participate in research.
For further information contact:
Dr. C.V. Smith, Graduate Coordinator 
School of Aerospace Engineering 
Georgia Institute of Technology 
Atlanta, Georgia 30332 
(404) 894-6046 
Office hours: M-W 2-4:30
SINGERS • DANCERS • INSTRUMENTALISTS 
TECHNICIANS • VARIETY PERFORMERS
Kings Productions, the world's #1 producer of 
live entertainment, is holding auditions for the 
spectacular 1988 season at KINGS ISLAND, 
Cincinnati, Ohio.
Pay is good and jobs are plenty (we'll even 
provide one round trip airfare if you're hired to 
work at a park over 250 miles from your home). 
Make your audition a show we can't do without!
PITTSBURGH, PENNSYLVANIA
Thursday, February 4 
Point Park College 
First Floor Lobby, Lawrence Hall 
Singers: 2-3 PM Dancers: 3-4 PM 
Instrumentalists, Specialty Acts: 3-4 PM
For additional audition information Kings Island Entertainment Office Kings Productions ..................... 513/241-5*11 800/544 5464
KINGS DOMINION ? CAROWINDS « CANADA'S WONDERLAND « KINGS ISLAND ? GREAT AMERICA AUSTRALIA'S WONDERLAND CKings Productions 1988

---------------------------------------------------

Spring '88
News Forum, Sundays, 8:30-9:15PM 
The WRCT News Crew produces this informative news and campus-affairs 
show. Each program contains a review of the week’s top news stories and a, 
sometimes provocative, interview of one or more Carnegie Mellon campus
personalities.
; [Jl> ift» * ' -<li):
Freedom of Speech, Mondays, 8:30-9:30PM 
A weekly talk show about life and politics. Each show features a heated de­
bate between CMU students on the right and left extremes of the political 
spectrum. Topics are timely and your calls are always welcome. Stand up and
voice your opinion!
12 a.m.
3 a.m.
6 a.m.
9 a.m.
The Rock Garden, Tuesdays, 8:30-9:30PM 
This show features live music. Concerts, live from WRCTs studios, and
*recordings of live performances, from the WRCT archives, are presented.
Bands were recorded live at the station or at local clubs.
12 p.m.
Sportsline, Thursday, 8:30-9:00PM 
WRCTs ace sports team brings you a live call-in talk show featuring the best 
in Tartan sports coverage. Interviews are held with campus sports personal­
ities and occasionally with special guests. A show not to be missed by the true
sports fan. Listen for a schedule of live events coverage.
3 p.m.
The WRCT Radio Calendar and Concert List can be heard daily at
8am, 1pm, 7pm and 11pm.
6 p.m.
WRCT News can be heard daily at 12, 5, and 10pm.
8:30 p.m.
WRCT is located at 5020 Forbes Avenue Pittsburgh, PA 15213. It is funded 9 p m
by the Carnegie Mellon University Student Activities Fee.
Request Lines: 621-WRCT or 268-2883
Sunday Monday
Basic Electromagnetic 
Emus—Dr. Tielovich
Electrocosmic Space Jam.
A guided tour through the ex­
citing and varied world of 
electronic and cosmic music.
Deranged Melodies— 
King of Confusion
An incoherent mix of crur 
ing guitars to clean 1 aes s 
everything in between: pu 
hard core, and rock.
Soon to be FilledSoon to be Filled
O
Jazz Excursions—Roland
The hottest in jazz, blues, in­
strumental rock, reggae, go-go, 
and funk. Music the way it was 
meant to be from the masters 
of America's classical music.
Psycho Dance—Just ,
Your head caught in a wh 
wind of sound. You coul 
resist. Your weekly bridge 
the danceable and b'^prre. 
Synth pop, jazz, blues, ai
Xylem Flow—George 
and Hanno
Throw away that manure, and 
feed your plants something 
they’ll really enjoy. The new­
est "new wave" of synth, 
dance, and happy music.
Paul
Hardcore, classical, rock
O
Forty Hundred Zillion 
Volts—Dan
Whap-a-dang with the best of 
them on overblown guitars in 
all flavors from garage to noise 
with stops at metal and rock­
abilly. The original trip.
Beer in Your Ear—Bi
Rock, blues, and jazz.
Cooperative Anarchy— 
Vadim
All over the world creative, in­
dependent people release music 
on their own cassette labels. 
Hear it all plus 45 min. of a 
great WRCT band each week.
Holden Caulfield's C 
Frank
Find yourself. Lose your 
nocence. Come of age. A 
sampling of the newest in 
pendent rumblings: rock, 
avant-pop and more.
Research—Scott
Psychedelia, garage, rock, 
and punk.
Dark Rock—Sto Jnin 
Norman
Continuing the style, and 
gressing yet further, featu 
music of a darker nature.
News Forum (’til 9:15)Freedom of Speech
(’til 9:30)
A Crock o' Mayo— 
Daniele
Reggae, experimental, ethnic, 
liberal, zen chanting and a 
weekly magazine of "New 
Voices" radio.
The Soul of the }iigh 
The Vindicator
From the darker matter be 
tween the stars. Celestial 
saxophone, Sicilian synth 
Ecliptical Oi, Visigothic, 
and experimental.

---------------------------------------------------

Tuesday Wednesday Thursday Friday Saturday
*—The
¡lunch­
es and* 
: punk,
Illuminations—Michele
A departure in new affection 
and new music featuring in­
dependent, experimental, 
foreign and aerosol-generated 
tunes.
The Next 13 Miles— 
Crow
Psychedelia, new and old, 
with plenty of mind-bending 
guitars and metal machine 
music.
Cries and Whispers— 
Sally
Happy English guitars, airy 
and sensual musings, and 
some grunge for good 
measure.
Orgone Excremeditation 
Chamber—Stucco Toast
Fill. Hold. Release. Many 
structures in the human body 
act this way. A combination of 
ambient, experimental, folk, 
blues, and industrial.
Unguided Tour—Dioxin
Stumble through the under­
bush of an under-civilized 
tundra. Hear everything from 
classical to hardcore, grunge 
to humor.
Soon to be FilledSoon to be FilledSoon to be FilledSoon to be FilledThe Atmosphere—Neil
Atmosperic rock, electronic, 
ambient and industrial music 
which surrounds you and 
forces you to breathe it.
t J
whirl- 
Duidn't 
dge to
nre. *.
, and rap
Soon to be FilledIn a Rut—Jamie
Slow, heavy guitar, gothic, 
punk and dark rock that's sure 
to pick you up and shake you 
around.
Comedy Corner—Mike
Classical Gas—Eric
Music to please the discrim­
inating palette featuring class­
ical and jazz.
Disappear Hear—Psycho 
New wave.
Soon to be Filled
>ck.
e)
The Weekday Fix—Bebop 
Hipster Junkie
Jazz from bebop to fusion... 
Parker to Ponty...Brubeck to 
Bley.
Jazz Ion Implantations— 
Mel Thunk
Jazz from yesterday...and 
today.
The Aquarium—Jack
Rock 'n Roll with special em­
phasis on janglin' guitars and 
lilting harmonies, R&B, in­
telligent pop, country and jazz, 
and very few synthesizers.
Cheeses of Nazareth— 
Slumpy
Reggae, rock.
Pest Control—Steve the 
Roach
Insect repelling reggae, elec­
tronic, hard core, jazz and 
much more.
-Bill
f
Cool Artsy Chick—Nuuj 
Rebel Music—DJ Dread.
Can you get high off music? 
Find out with the finest in reg­
gae, electronic, jazz, blues, 
new and interesting music.
Kitsch & Famous—Queen 
of Radio Pornography
Popular alternative, fun, 
snappy happy pappy stuff.
Pandora's Music Box— 
Angelo
A mess of experimental and 
industrial music.
Guest DJThe Country Dada Show— 
Ovid & Dusty Jackets
Psychromatic passages of ex­
perimental sounds: jazz, blues, 
poetry, hardcore, reggae, rock 
scented vials, everything from 
classic country to cowpoke.
Cap—
ur in- 
A
inde-
:k,
Moonbase Alpha— 
Mission Control
A bewildering journey from 
the best dance to ecstatic 
noise, new wave, industrial 
and back.
Conelrad—Jodi
An amalgam of rock, funky 
guitars and noisy exceptions.
Damped Harmonic 
Oscillator—Kevin
Rock, hardcore.
Stewed Jazz—Stew 
Jazz.
Evil Honky Stomp— 
Lisa
Rock, jazz, bebop, dixieland, 
bits of reggae, folk, blues, 
screaming guitars and other 
upbeat wailers.
in' e>
id pro- 
ituring
e. »
Sirens and Silences— 
Elisa
Open your ears to multicolored 
jazz, rock, and experimental 
for unusual minds.
Not Necessarily Stoned, 
But Beautiful—Dave
Avant-garde, rock and jazz 
from a nice liberal guy with 
no ties to Reagan or the 
PMAC.
Upper Nairobe—Debbi
A cacophony of screaming gui­
tar rock, jazz, blues, avant- 
garde, and funk, other musics 
which defy classification.
Yo Mama—The Nuuj
Tongue-lashing, bone 
crunchin', rock, punk and 
mutant funk.
Industrial Strength— 
Simon
Dance, industrial, hardcore 
and metal.
be­
ll
ithetic,
blues
The Rock Garden ('til 9:30)
A Heartwarming Family 
Drama—C. Chaynsaw
PG-rated rock, eclectic sounds. 
Fun for the entire family.
Vanna on Your Breath— 
Garrett
Drone, Rock, Crunch, Spittle.
Sportsline ('til 9:00)
Funk Dungeon—Mary
Funky alternative rock 
occasionally posessed by the 
spirit of Ishtar.
Spermblast—Ralph and 
Lenny
It's your last chance to enjoy 
their hard-rockin', ulcer- 
causing noizfest. Don't blow 
it.
Flaming Carrot Flower 
Hour—Mr. Furious
Serving up a tasty batch of 
American and British indiepop, 
guitar noise, and crunchy rock 
'n roll.
Yinz R' Jagoffs— 
Marcela
Thrash, hardcore and Elvis.

---------------------------------------------------

Features
Celebrity Hockey Team To Play
“Is this another comedy/ 
drama sports movie where 
the underdog team wins the 
game in the final seconds 
overcoming insurmountable 
adversity?”
By NEAL A. LEVENE
Tartan Staffer iter
There are 20 seconds left in the game. The 
referee prepares to drop the puck. The score is 
tied 2-2 as Stan Mikita, former Chicago Black- 
hawk and member of the NHL Hall of Fame, 
stands in and readies himself for the face-off. 
The puck is dropped, Mikita takes the puck out 
to the right and knocks it around the boards to 
teammate Alan ——¦
Thicke (Growing 
Pains and Thicke 
of the Night).
Thicke tries a cen­
tering pass to 
teammate Michael 
Keaton (Mr. Mom,
Johnny Danger­
ously, and Night 
Shift). Keaton gets
the puck with one r—r ....... 
second left, he shoots and ...
Wait a minute. Alan Thicke? Michael Kea­
ton?
Is this another comedy/drama sports movie 
where the underdog team wins the game in the 
final seconds overcoming insurmountable 
adversity? Well, actually the answer is no. It is 
not another movie. It is. however, a hockey 
game between the Celebrity All Stars, a team 
of celebrities and ex-hockey players w ho play 
exhibition games around the country for local 
charities, and a challenging team of local 
nonprofessionals and ex-Penguin players.
The Celebrity All Star Team will be in Pitts­
burgh on Saturday, January 30, 1988 at the 
Civic Arena playing on behalf of the Parental 
Stress Center. Entering its thirteenth year of 
community service, the Parental Stress Center 
provides therapeutic and preventive programs 
for abused and neglected young children and 
their parents in the Pittsburgh area.
This year will be the Celebrity Hockey
team’s third season touring the NHL circuit, 
but it is the team’s eighth year of existence. 
Last year was the first year they played in 
Pittsburgh raising nearly $20,000 for the Pa­
rental Stress Center.
The Celebrity All Star Team consists of both 
celebrities from television and movies as well 
as former Olympic hockey stars and NHL Hall 
of Famers. Michael Keaton, Alan Thicke,
John Bennett 
Perry best known 
as the Old Spice 
Man, Steve 
Gannelli from 
Cheers, Adam 
Baldwin who was 
in My Bodyguard 
and D.C. Cab, 
and several others 
are among the ce- 
............ lebrities on the
team roster.
The celebrities are joined by Stan Mikita, 
Brad Park (former All Star Defenseman for 
the New York Rangers and Boston Bruins), 
Bill Christian (member of the 1960 U.S. 
Squaw Valley Gold Medal Olympic Hockey 
Team), and Eric Strobel (member of the 1980 
Gold Medal Olympic Team).
Among other things, last year’s game gave 
Pittsburgh’s native Michael Keaton the op­
portunity to do something for his hometown. 
Keaton grew up rooting for the old Pittsburgh 
Hornets of the American Hockey League. He 
even played a little hockey down in South 
Park. He got back into hockey after starring in 
the movie Touch TV Go. He now plays as often 
as possible in a Hollywood area league.
After last year’s game, Keaton was quoted as 
saying, “It was great coming back to Pitts­
burgh and helping out the city where I grew 
up. That’s the best part of playing hockey
continued on page 17
Field to Factory:
Afro-American Exhibit Comes to Hunt
By NATALIE PETERSON
Tartan Staffwriter 
Between 1915 and 1940, hundreds of 
thousands of Afro-Americans left their 
homes in the rural South and traveled to the 
other side of the Mason-Dixon line in hopes 
of finding a better life in the industrial 
North. Northern cities such as Pittsburgh, 
Cleveland, Chicago, and Detroit offered 
the possibilities of high-paying industrial 
jobs, better educations, and escape from the 
often violent prejudices of the South. Un­
fortunately, after arriving in one of the 
many unfamiliar Northern cities, many 
blacks discovered that finding steady 
employment was much more difficult than 
had been imagined. Still, most were able to 
find jobs, which, though labor intensive 
and monotonous, paid more than the agri­
cultural labor of the South. Barriers were
also encountered in the realm of education. 
Northern schools were segregated, with 
black schools receiving less funding than 
white. Nevertheless, compulsory educa­
tion laws in the North kept more black 
youths in school and resulted in twice as 
many black high school graduates in the 
North as in the South. Lastly, a move to the 
North did not guarantee an escape from 
prejudice and discrimination. In fact, as 
more and more blacks traveled northward, 
racial issues in the North tended to inten­
sify.
Despite the many obstacles faced by 
those who journeyed to the North, blacks 
were able to endure hardships and some­
times even achieve relative success. Fam­
ily and friends bonded together offering 
encouragement and a sense of community 
continued on page 16
I
Hunt Library
on exhibit through 
February 7th
Field to Factory
Afro-American Migration 1915-1940
I)
It’s Not Too Early To Plan Spring Break
By SUZY DOTTOR
Tartan Staffwriter
What? The semester has just begun and you’re already day 
dreaming about Spring Break? Well, don’t worry, you’re not 
alone! College students all over the country traditionally plan 
their trips early in the semester and collegiate tour companies 
have put their Spring Break ’88 campaigns into full gear.
Determining where and how you will spend your vacation 
may be difficult, since there are so many options available. For 
instance, you could go to Florida, Texas or South Carolina for 
some rest, relaxation, and fun in the sun. Or, perhaps you’d 
prefer to spend your days exploring the Magic Kingdom and 
Epcot Center at Disney World in Orlando. If you’re a sports 
enthusiast you might be interested in heading to Daytona to 
compete in the National College Sports Festival. Maybe you 
haven’t gotten enough of the slopes this winter and you’d rather 
head for a ski trip in Colorado.
Sunchase Tours Inc., a collegiate tour company based in 
Colorado, offers four different package trips to Florida. The 
trips last for seven nights and cost anywhere between $ 129 and 
$139 per person. Those prices only include accommodations 
and one mid week picnic but round trip discount air fares and 
group charter bus transportation can be arranged through the 
company. These Florida sites include Daytona Beach, Fort 
Walton Beach, Orlando and Miami Beach.
Sunchase also offers some out-of-the-ordinary Spring Break 
trips to South and North Padre Island, Mustang Island and 
Galveston Island, all in Texas on the Gulf of Mexico. These 
trips start as low as $ 124 per person and are advertised as being 
smaller in size but not in excitement and activity.
There are still other options you might want to explore. 
Sunchase offers a trip to Hilton Head Island, South Carolina 
where the company has teamed up with Hilton Head Island 
Beach and Tennis Resort to arrange incredible savings for 
Spring Breakers. Perhaps though, too much studying hasn’t 
allowed for enough skiing. In that case you’d probably want to 
look into Sunchase’s ski trip to Steamboat, Colorado. There, 
for as low as $87 you can enjoy warm sun and bright days skiing 
at an elevation of 10,000 feet on “white champagne powder" 
snow. Along with skiing you can also enjoy days of snowmo-
biling, cross country skiing and even a horse-drawn sleigh ride 
before snuggling up to watch the latest feature on the free HBO 
in your condominium!
If you’d like to visit the Magic Kingdom or Epcot Center, 
Spring Break is the perfect time to do it. Disney Break ’88 is 
featuring big savings throughout the month of March. One-day 
admission to either park is $19.50 which is a saving of nearly 
ten dollars. There is also a special two-day admission of $30 
which allows one day at each park and a savings of $26.
A new way collegians are spending their Spring Break is 
competing in the National College Sports Festival held in 
Daytona Beach and Corpus Christi. For the third year in a row 
the festival will be offering students four consecutive one-
week long tournaments in 20 sports including softball, basket­
ball, cycling, ultimate frisbee, swimming, volleyball and flag 
football. This festival is designed for the intramural college 
student, offering him the “Walter Mitty fantasy” of wearing the | 
school’s colors and competing at a national level. Only non­
varsity, non-scholarship students are eligible to participate.
As a service to competing athletes and their fans, the Festival 
is offering reduced rate travel packages. These packages also 
include lodging at beach front hotels.
Each week’s champions will be flown free to Daytona Beach 
via American airlines to compete in the nationally televised 
final championship competition held in October 1988. An All 
Points Trophy is given to the school who participates in thtl 
most events. The University of Wisconsin, Madison has won 
this trophy for the past two years.
Skiing, Texas and competition are all well and good, but for 
those of you who are looking for the traditional Spring Break, 
your destination will have to be none other than Fort Lauder­
dale. So far the “sun and suds” capitol of the world has 
welcomed over 1 billion college students and the Fort Lauder­
dale ’88 Committee is already preparing for more this year.
For 1988, the Committee is ensuring students a break they’l | 
never forget due to the many changes tljat have taken place. The 
city has appointed a new Chief of Police who was a Spring 
Breaker 20 years ago. National sponsors and national press are 
flocking to the area with gifts and prizes. National TV and radio 
coverage will be present. Fort Lauderdale is also actively pro­
moting that students 18 years and older will now be admitted 
into the nightclubs for dancing and partying. Lastly, hoteliers 
are offering new, low rates.
While all the sun, sand or skiing may sound wonderful yoi | > 
should be careful about the tour company you choose. The 
break that was supposed to return you to school rested and 
relaxed may do the exact opposite.
Take for example the experience of CMU senior Paulette 
Donsavage. Through a student recruiter for Collegiate Tours 
and Travel Paulette and a group of friends heard about a trip to 
Daytona Beach for $200 last spring. This fee included round 
trip bus transportation, six nights at the Econo Lodge near the
continued on page ID \

---------------------------------------------------

January 26,1988—The Tartan—Page 15
A Phi O is “Not Just a Bunch of ‘Do-gooders’
By JUDY HARABURDA
Tartan Features Co-Editor 
Don’t be alarmed. The following short quiz 
will be unlike most you’ve had to take at CMU. 
You will not be graded and you are encouraged 
to cheat off your neighbor.
Circle the correct answer(s). Alpha Phi 
Omega (commonly called “A Phi O”):
a) publishes the C-book campus directory 
and Freshman packets
b) sells 
concessions at 
CMU football 
and basketball 
g|tmes and at 
Spring Carnival
c) runs the 
Magic Bus to 
Philadelphia/
Harrisburg at 
Thanksgiving
d) mans the 
polls at Student 
Senate elections
e) sponsors 
Tuck-Ins and 
Stuffed Sweet­
hearts
f) runs Book Exchange at the beginning of 
each semester
g) organizes Scouting events such as Scout 
Swim, Klondike Derby, Scouting for Food, 
etc.
h) performs community service with or­
ganizations such as WQED, the Salvation 
Army, and nursing and children’s homes
i) all of the above and more 
The answer, of course, is “i.”
First, a little national history about A Phi O. 
It is a national co-ed service fraternity founded 
at Lafayette College in Easton, PA in 1925. 
Frank Reed Horton, a former naval officer who 
had served in World War I, became interested
in the Boy Scout movement while a student at 
Lafayette and saw the need to establish a 
college organizaton that would be based on 
the high ideals of Scouting and the principles 
of leadership, friendship and service. The 
fourteen charter members decided that A Phi
0 would be a nonsecret fraternity with the 
main goal of service to campus, community, 
chapter, and country. At the 1976 National 
Convention in Georgia, delegates voted to
offer women full 
membership 
rights. Since the 
founding at 
Lafayette Col­
lege in 1925, this 
national frater­
nity has grown to 
632 chapters.
Kappa chapter 
here at Carnegie 
Mellon was 
founded in 1929 
by Carl J. Long,
H. Kenneth Sief- 
ers and other 
Carnegie Tech 
students. As the 
second oldest continuous chapter in the na­
tion, they will be celebrating their Sixtieth 
Anniversary in 1989.
President Ron Manila comments on his first 
impressions of A Phi O. “The biggest thing I 
learned from A Phi O was not to judge people 
before you really know them. At first I thought
1 could never fit in. Then I was dragged to a 
meeting, and I realized that these were real 
people and I sensed commitment to the frater­
nity. Besides, nobody cared how badly I 
danced.”
There are probably as many different rea­
sons for joining as members of A Phi O. Serv­
ice Vice-President Jenni Severa says she
joined because “I wanted to be involved in 
Spring Carnival and I was too chubby to drive 
a buggy! Seriously though, I liked doing serv­
ice in high school. I was also interested be­
cause my box number in the C-book was
“There is no other organizaton like 
it on campus...we're not just a bunch 
of ‘do-gooders’; we're more than 
that...”
—Graham Potter
wrong and I wanted someone to know about it! 
The first project I did was Stuffed Sweethearts 
and I brought up a new idea and they listened 
to it. They never made me feel like an outsider 
even though they didn’t really know me.”
Member Graham Potter explains, “There is 
no other organization like it on campus. It’s a 
diverse group of people tightly knit working 
together and achieving something. We’re not 
just a bunch of ‘do-gooders’; we’re more than 
that. The fraternity is so close that everything 
we do is a social event and everything we do 
we do effectively.”
Severa emphasizes that “a lot of people don ’ t 
realize that our service projects are open to 
everyone, whether you’re in A Phi O or not. So 
if you’re interested in a project, feel free to stop
by.”
Anyone interested in more information about 
A Phi O or about service projects can stop by 
the A Phi O office in Skibo Room 54 or call ext. 
2116.
A Phi O members Paul Delano, Jenni Severa, and Susan Jerko paint the nursery at 
the Church of the Ascension during a recent community service project
FREE WALK-IN TUTORING Sun.- Thurs. 7-10 P.M.
CALCULUS PH 107-A
PHYSICS PH 107-B
CHEMISTRY PH 126-A
ECONOMICS PH 126-B
ACADEMIC WRITING PH 126-C
INTRO. TO COMPUTING WeH5409
Sponsored by Counseling & Student Development Center and Student Affairs

---------------------------------------------------

Page 16—The Tartan—January 26,1988
pizza, with Larry & Carol’s coming in sec­
ond. Pizza Hut and 4 Star tied for third, which 
is surprising because, according to Lisa 
Bonessi, manager of the Pizza Hut on Fifth 
Avenue in Oakland, Pizza Hut does not de­
liver in the Pittsburgh area and has no plans to 
do so in the immediate future. Bonessi told us
THE WINNERS
Best delivered pizza: Domino’s 
Cheapest delivered pizza: Capri 
Best off-campus pizza: 
Pizza Hut
that Pizza Hut will deliver on very large orders
— say 10 pizzas. So if you’re really hungry....
We also asked students to rate delivered 
pizza on price. Capri Pizza was named the 
cheapest delivered pizza (a large 16-inch 
pepperoni costs $6.15 plus tax, but includes 
two free liters of Pepsi), followed by Little 
Italy ($6.75, tax included, along with two free 
drinks). Tying for third place were Domino’s 
($8.59, no free drinks) and 4 Star ($8.50, also 
without drinks).
Editor's Note: At the time of our survey, 
MorePizza had not announced its intention to 
offer a limited pizza delivery service to Hill 
residents. See page 5 of this issue of The 
Tartan for details.
Finally, 42% of the students we spoke to said 
they occasionally go off-campus for pizza. By 
far. Pizza Hut was rated the best off-campus 
pizza, with Aiello’s Pizza in Squirrel Hill 
coming in a distant second and Mineo’s and 
Gullifty’s, both in Squirrel Hill, tying for third.
We’d like to thank all those students who 
took time to respond to our survey. And judg­
ing by the amount of pizza consumed at CMU, 
we think we can state that pizza — in all its 
forms — is here to stay.
The Best Pizza in Pittsburgh
Domino’s was rated the best deliveredExhibit Celebrates Black History
By HOWDY PIERCE
Tartan Features Co-Editor
“Pizza is man’s best friend,” says Dave Os- 
trowski, a freshman in MCS. Although that 
may be a slight exaggeration, most college 
students would generally agree that pizza cer­
tainly beats the dog for this honored position. 
The Tartan thought it would be interesting to 
find out who has the best pizza in Pittsburgh, 
so we went to you, the experts.
By far the most popular way to get the recom­
mended daily allowance of pizza at CMU is to 
go to MorePizza. We asked 40 students to rate 
Dining Service on a scale of 1 to 10 (10 was the 
highest) in four categories. The average scores 
are given in parentheses: quality (4.4), price 
(5.7), speed (7.0), and cleanliness (6.4). All the 
scores were above average (5.0) except for 
quality, which may be due to the grease about 
which some students complained. (In the box 
for “quality” sophomore Elice Slafka wrote 
the word “edible,” which sums it up.)
The second most popular type of pizza at 
Carnegie Mellon is delivered pizza. A number 
of area stores specialize in pizza delivery, and 
it is convenient especially for students who 
live on campus. Our results indicate that 58% 
of all students order pizza at least once a week 
for delivery.
photo by Howdy Pierce
Freshman Walt Schearer walks through the Afro-American Photo Exhibit on the 
fourth floor of Hunt Library. The exhibit will be at Hunt through February 7.
continued from page 14
to one another in surroundings which were 
unfamiliar and often quite harsh. As black 
neighborhoods grew, so did the prospect of 
black enterprise. Black entrepreneurs 
achieved success by creating banks, drug­
stores, funeral homes and other businesses 
which catered to black clientele. Black 
community life was also enhanced by the 
presence of churches and various fraternal 
organizations.
The mass movement of blacks from the 
rural South to the industrial North de­
scribed above has been referred to by many 
historians as the ‘Great Migration.’ The 
stories of many blacks who participated in 
this migration are revealed in the Field to 
Factory exhibition currently on display in 
Hunt Library. The exhibition, featuring 
photographs and artifacts depicting the 
experiences of blacks who traveled north­
ward after World War I, is part of the
Smithsonian Institution Traveling Exhibition 
Service. Pittsburgh is the first stop for the 
display, which will remain at Carnegie Mellon 
until February 7, 1988. The display is located 
on the fourth floor of the library and may be 
viewed anytime during the library’s normal 
hours. Field to Factory was brought to Carne­
gie Mellon by project co-directors Sylvema 
Ford of the University Libraries and Dr. J. W. 
Trotter of the Department of History. Accord­
ing to Trotter, work on the Field to Factory 
project began nearly two years ago.
Several related activities were planned in 
conjunction with the exhibition. The majority 
of these activities have already taken place. 
One exception is a series of Monday films in 
Doherty Hall 2210 which began on January 18 
and will conclude on February 1. The final 
film in the series is “The Killing Floor”, a story 
of blacks who migrated to Chicago to work in 
the meat packing industry. The film will be 
shown at 6:30.
$88 FOR SPRING ’88 SEMESTER MEMBERSHIP! 
AEROBICS UNLIMITED - ONLY $10.00 PER SEMESTER
OflOT (SABBI15E8. (SILCTIB
CMU'S TOTAL FITNESS FACILITY
OUR EQUIPMENT INCLUDES:NAUTILUS 
POWER-MASTER 
FREE WEIGHTS 
STATIONARY BIKES
ALSO AVAILABLE:FREE TOWEL SERVICE 
CLEAN SHOWER FACILITIES 
LOCKERS
EXERCISE INSTRUCTION
?ASK ABOUT OUR NEW NON PRIME-TIME RATE
•COME BY FOR A TOUR AND SIGN FOR YOUR 
COMPLIMENTARY ORIENTATION AND WORKOUT.
•LOCATION: MARGARET MORRISON PLAZA
•PHONE #: X - 8876 CALL TO SET UP A 
FREE APPOINTMENT!
PAYLESSCAR RENTAL
ALSO DBA HOLIDAY* PAYLESS* RENT-A-CAROur Name Says It Ali i
• Low Daily - Weekly Rates . Weekend Specials
• Must be 21 or over
• Most Major Credit Cards Accepted 
(Students' and Parents' cards accepted.)
•15 and 7 Passenger Vans available also
• 1/2 mile from Campus 
yCi),UT,7 )lv gi77 A7h7ibeMTCt7’ 
1’800’237-2804 Ci w7) MCdi )7b7) F.7tM
521-5700
5600 Wilkins Ave.Pgh. Pa. 15217 (Squirrel Hill)
d q p|Q0 at The Carnegie
f * All Ages, Levels and Interests
^ * Special Master Classes
REGISTER NOW! 
QUALITY DANCE INSTRUCTION
* For information, call The Carnegie at 622-3288 
^Mention this ad for 10% off Registration Fee

---------------------------------------------------

January 19,1988—The Tartan—Page 17
‘Fashion Alert:
Throw out Glamour 
l\irn on the Tube
Television plays a major role in fashion decision today. It provides an inspiration 
everyone can appreciate, as well as evoking the image that certain characters project. A 
good example of this theory at work can be observed here on campus. Sitting in class, one 
can pick out familiar looks from the screen on many students. A very popular look can be 
attributed to Greg Brady’s rebellious mode. We all remember when he moved up to the 
attic, hung up the beaded curtain and lay around in his bean bag chair. Well, today others 
uf& donning his fringed jacket and unkempt locks to create an atmosphere that breathes The 
Brady Bunch.
S----------------------------------------------------Sy Some wear leather jackets from a more
contemporary program. The Video 
Look, Michael Jackson’s red leather, or 
Duran Duran’s wide shoulders can be 
spotted along the Cut at virtually any 
time of day.
Rick Lee agrees, and adds: “I really like 
the personified suit. It’s coming back in
— LA. Law is a good example of this, 
and so is David Letterman. They’re all
By Sara Flynn
wearing great suits.”
His roommate seems to disagree.
“My roommate gets his fashion hints from Hollywood Squares. What’s in on this campus 
is the Hee Haw Look. Or maybe Green Acres."
As their conversation turns to Ed Kass’ hair, and the influence T.V. might have had on 
its appearance, Martha Mispireta suggests, “The Cosby Show has great sweaters, I’d like 
-iO see more of them around here.” And Alex Rosenberg agrees, “I love those sweaters of 
Dr. Huxtable.” But her comment changes direction as she asks Ed Kass about his hair.
Martha adds, “Some people at this school dress like Don Johnson. You know, the scruffy 
face, the t-shirt.”
Reminiscing Bruce Mazer adds, “A lot of professors do the Archie Bunker Shirt, which 
is like ReRun on Gimme A Break. You know, it barely stretches over the stomach.”
Apps remarks, “I’ve noticed many people wear college sweatshirts with the names of 
other colleges on them exactly like Ted Knight on Too Close For ComfortThis is quite 
true. But there’s more to fashion than what you wear, it’s how you wear it. Emily Parker 
'^offers a fashion tip to girls: “Red nail polish is very in. Just like on those shoot ‘em up 
shows.”
Accessories can make the difference. Shirley Jones proved this in the seventies with the 
casual scarf draped about the neck, something many Kiltie goers of today also incorporate 
in their looks.
Saturday morning Kiltie population seems to be more influenced by the uniforms sported 
by Gopher and Cap’n Stubing on The Love Boat. The military look is definitely in.
If you are lost without a fashion direction, perhaps you should watch more television. 
Then you can be seen on the ‘Scene of the Screen.’
Li ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------*---------------
All Star Hockey Team Faces Off Against Child Abuse...Game To Benefit Stress Center
After the Penguins game the Celebrity team 
members will attend a post game VIP Recep­
tion and Auction at the Hyatt Pittsburgh sched­
uled for 10:00 p.m. The party will feature live 
music by the Affordable Floors, refreshments, 
and the chance to bid on special items auto­
graphed by Penguins and celebrity team 
members. You will be able to brush elbows 
with some of your favorite stars as well as with 
attending Pittsburgh Penguins. Tickets to the 
Reception are $25 and are available through 
Choice Seat outlets and the Civic Arena. Some 
tickets will be available at the door. All pro­
ceeds go to benefit the Parental Stress Center. 
For more information contact Marie Reilly at 
381-4800.
Thicke tries a centering pass to teammate 
Keaton. Keaton gets the puck with one second
left he shoots ... and scores. The Celebrity All 
Stars win the game. The real winners, how­
ever, will be the Parental Stress Center and the 
people it serves.
continued from page 14
again ... and besides, where else can you get 
the thrill of playing with some of hockey’s 
legends.”
What is most important to the Celebrity team 
is the fact that their efforts are aiding much 
needed charities in the areas in which the team 
puts on their exhibition games. According to 
Marie Reilly, a Parental Stress Center repre­
sentative, “We are, as most non-profits today, 
facing a growing level of need in the commu­
nity. We have waiting lists for all of our 
programs. But there is a decreasing stream of 
support. And so we have to work on doing 
things like this; special events to help us raise 
some money to supplement the program.”
The Celebrity exhibition game will be 
played at the Civic Arena starting at 5:00 pm, 
Saturday, January 30, before the Penguins 
game. Gates will open at 4:30. A normal Pen­
guins game ticket will admit you to both 
events.
Poetry Contest Announced
ILLINOIS—The Coastal Classic Poetry Contest is offering $1000 in 
cash prizes to new poets and professionals who enter this distin­
guished competition. Besides the prestigious $500 Grand Prize, there 
is a $250 First Prize, a $100 Second Prize and 3 Third Prizes of $50 
each.
All poems will be considered for publication in the 1988 American 
Anthology of Contemporary Poetry. Winners will be notified by May
1, 1988.
Each poet may enter one poem, 20 lines or less, on any subject, 
written in any style. Poem and poet’s name and address must be typed
or printed on one side of a sheet of typing paper. Poet should keep a 
copy since entry can’t be returned. There is no entry fee for this 
contest.
Entries should be mailed by February 15, 1988, to:
Coastal Classic Poetry Contest 
Great Lakes Poetry Press 
P.O. Box 56703 
Harwood Heights, IL 60656
Features 
Ferret says:
‘Just say
Yes!”
To Features.
Staff meetings 
every Monday at 
7 pm in the Tartan 
Office. See you 
there!
¦
Student Senate 
would like to thank all those who 
helped reduce the cost of transcripts to $2.00,
effective July 1
Thank You!
Working Together We Get Things Done

---------------------------------------------------

Page 18—The Tartan—January 26,1988
The Tartan Offers Students 
Advice for Spring Break
continued from page 14
main strip in Daytona and two pool parties.
When the group of Carnegie Mellon students 
got to Daytona however, they could not stay at 
the Econo Lodge because there was no room. 
Instead, they had to stay at the Days Inn which 
was much farther away from all the action.
Further, there were six people staying in a 
room for five instead of a room for six as they 
would have had at the Econo Lodge. The 
students on this package trip received only one 
of the pool parties that had been promised.
At the end of the week’s stay the bus was 
supposed to leave Daytona Beach that Satur­
day at two in the afternoon. Returning home on 
the bus would be the original passengers
“Remember to ask for all the 
details about what is included 
in the package and get it in 
writing.”
which included the CMU students along with 
a group of people from White Water, Wiscon­
sin. Everyone checked out of the hotel at the 
ten o’clock check out time that morning and 
waited in the lobby until two. At two o’clock 
the bus wasn’t there. In fact, it didn’t get there 
until midnight! The bus driver informed the 
passengers that he was ten hours late because 
he had had some trouble with the bus.
By now, the sleepy travelers were too tired to 
care. They just wanted to get on the bus and 
sleep. And so they did. After four hours how­
ever, the passengers found themselves being 
awakened by the bus driver’s questioning, 
“Does anyone here know anything about
cars?” The bus had broken down... again.
“We all got off the bus and waited by the side 
of the road at 4 am,” Paulette Donsavage 
stated. Luckily, the owner of another bus 
company just happened to drive by. He got on 
one of his buses, drove the students to a near by 
Ramada Inn, and offered to have one of his bus 
drivers take them all home. The original bus 
driver declined and only asked for help repair­
ing his bus which they did, until ten o’clock the 
next morning. Meanwhile, the exhausted pas­
sengers waited at the Ramada Inn.
“By then, four people took a cab to the 
nearest airport which cost $100 and then paid 
$250 for a plane ticket home,” said Donsav­
age. Others rented cars and drove home them­
selves. By now, the majority of the people left 
were those from Wisconsin, with only five 
CMU students still there.
After a few more hours the driver gave up his 
hope of repairing his bus and took his passen­
gers back on the new bus instead.
“Five minutes after we were on the bus the 
driver announced that we would be going to 
Wisconsin first, so we asked him to drop us 
[the remaining CMU students] off at the near­
est airport,” said Donsavage.
They then flew back to Pittsburgh from 
Atlanta. One CMU student who didn’t have 
enough money for a plane ticket stayed on the 
bus. Finally, when they reached White Water, 
Wisconsin the company bought her a plane 
ticket to Pittsburgh.
A few weeks later, after recovering from the 
trip, each CMU student wrote a letter to the 
company asking for some kind of compensa­
tion or threatening a law suit. One person even 
called the president of the company. None of 
them ever got a response.
Here are some trouble shooting tips to avoid
More Things Mother Never Told You
•Percentage of American men who say they 
enjoy sex more than money: 47 
•Percentage of American women who say 
this: 26
•Cost of the Vietnam War in 1983 dollars: 
$430,200,000,000
•Percentage of high school students who 
believe the President can declare a law un­
constitutional: 49
•Percentage of college students who at­
tended a religious service in 1985: 84.9 
•Number of pencils and index cards David 
Letterman tosses over his shoulder during 
an average show: 4
•Number of toys given away in boxes of 
Cracker Jack since 1912: 16,000,000,000 
•Movie theaters in the US: 18,000 
•In the Soviet Union: 151,280 
•People on the waiting list to see an execu­
tion in Florida: 215
•Diameter of TV’s “Wheel of Fortune”:
8’ 6"
•Price of a contract killing in the Bronx: 
$5,000
•Percentage of Americans who believe the 
accused are guilty until proven innocent: 50
•Percentage of Americans in 1985 who 
didn’t recognize Mr. Clean: 7 
•Who didn’t recognize George Bush: 44 
•Amount spent by the US government on 
advertising in 1985: $259,000,000 
•Amount spent by Coca-Cola: 
$390,000,000
•Percentage of Americans who cannot 
name a country “near the Pacific Ocean”:
42
•Rank of Richard Nixon masks among the 
best-selling Halloween masks bought by 
adults: 1
•Total sales of products tied to the most 
recent pass of Hailey’s comet: 
$500,000,000
•Longest recorded flight by a chicken: 
302' 8"
•Combined net worth of the 400 richest 
Americans: $156,000,000,000,000 
•Percentage of American sixth-graders 
who cannot locate the United States on a 
world map: 20
•Chances that a white, college-educated 
25-year-old woman will marry: 1 in 2 
Source: The Harper’s Index Book
such a mess on your Spring Break:
•When you are talking to the tour company’s 
representative, remember to ask for all the 
details about what is included in the package 
and get it in writing.
•When you arrive you may find that a $ 100 or 
more cash damage/security deposit must be 
paid before checking in, ask about this before­
hand.
•Take some extra money or a credit card in 
case everything doesn’t go according to plan.
•Lastly, have fun but know in advance what 
you’re getting into. Of course not all tour com­
panies are scams, so just select yours carefully. 
Getting information from the Better Business 
Bureau is a good place to start.
The health center an­
nounces new student 
health center service 
hours:
Monday
Tuesday
Wednesday
Thursday
Friday
Saturday
8:30 am - 7:00 pm 
8:30 am - 5:00 pm 
8:30 am - 7:00 pm 
8:30 am - 5:00 pm 
8:30 am - 5:00 pm 
11:00 am - 2:00 pm
Effective January 18 through May 7
PENNSYLVANIA GOVERNOR’S SCHOOL 
FOR THE SCIENCES
Undergraduate summer employment at CMU will be available with Pennsylvania 
Governor's School for the Sciences. The PGSS is a five-week summer school for very talented 
high school students from Pennsylvania. Teaching Assistant/ Counselor appointments will be 
available for biology, chemistry, and physics laboratories as well as tutorial duties in computer 
science and mathematics.
Preference will be given to scholastically sound applicants. You will be expected to 
simultaneously serve as dormitory counselors and to live in the same dormitory as the PGSS 
students, see that the PGSS disciplinary rules are adhered to, provide tutorial help in the 
academic program, and conduct social activities.
Stipend for five-and-one-half week period: $1100 - $1500 
(Depending on experience) 
Free room and board 
School is in session from July 3 to August 6
Applications for an interview available in the office of the Pennsylvania Governor's School 
for the Sciences, DH 2201. For further information, contact Professor Caretto, EXT. 6669.
Application Deadline: March 9,1988

---------------------------------------------------

January 19,1988—The Tartan—Page 19
Kalvan Juggles Academics, Hobbies
BY KRISHNAN SOMASUNDARAM
Tartan Staffwriter
Picture this: you sit in Gray Matter waiting to meet a friend. 
You watch the people go by to pass the time. But this one guy 
has really caught your attention. He’s wearing a tie-dye T-shirt 
and black shorts in January. Pretty normal for CMU, huh? Sure, 
b( " this guy is juggling six juggling pins, a couple of tennis 
balls, riding a unicycle with amazing grace, and carrying on 
casual conversations with several people all at once!
Who is he? He’s Jack Kalvan, a junior mechanical engineer 
from Miami, Florida. Don’t be fooled by his ordinary or boyish 
appearance. He’s nothing short of a juggling whiz. Jack juggles 
just about anything: pins, balls — even eggs. But his acrobatic 
skill spans a wide range indeed. The tightrope, the stilts, the 
unicycle, the balance board, and devil sticks all are child’s play 
fr_ Jack.
Anyone who has seen Jack performing knows the intensity in 
his juggling performances. While expertly riding a unicycle 
(backwards and forwards), six or seven juggling pins soar 
several feet above his head in a continuous circle. He tosses 
them back and forth to his Jwo juggling partners while someone 
else tosses in extra pins and tennis balls indiscriminately. All 
this he does easily.
His juggling career started when he watched a very young boy 
O'* That’s Incredible! a few years ago. “I saw this little kid
photo by Sarah Gaffen
Jack Kalvan performs in costume at Madrigal Feast ’87.
[eight year old Anthony Gatto] juggle all sorts of things with 
tremendous ease, and I thought this would be a really neat thing 
to do, so I started in my backyard with tennis balls and just kept 
at it. I practiced several hours a week. About three years ago, 
I joined a club in Florida. We performed locally and had a good 
time doing it.”
So, is this juggling thing almost impossible to learn? “Not at 
all,” says Jack. “Almost anyone can learn. You’d be surprised 
how seemingly uncoordinated people have become quite 
impressive in such a short span of time. All it really takes is 
determination and tenacity, and from then on, it’s just a matter 
of time before juggling becomes second nature.” In fac^ Jack
“Jack is really quite an inspiration....He makes us 
see how fun and easy juggling really can be.” 
—Rick Rubenstein
says he has taught literally hundreds of people, many of them 
at CMU. He founded the juggling club on campus, which 
boasts a growing thirty-person membership. Rick Rubenstein, 
a member, says, “Jack is really quite an inspiration....He makes 
us see how fun and easy juggling really can be.”
His juggling talent has recently brought him much recogni­
tion. He has performed at national conventions in Atlanta, San 
Hose, Akron, Pittsburgh, and Miami. He performed at the 
Rocky Mountain and Renaissance Festivals. He has been 
featured in Juggler’s World Magazine, many newspapers, and 
has placed third in the National Numbers Championship in 
juggling. Jack has done numerous on-campus juggling shows, 
such as freshmen orientations and Madrigal Feast ’87.
In the Carnegie Mellon community. Jack’s life is far from 
being limited to juggling. Besides being a very active A Phi O 
brother, he does body work on buggy for CIA, he’s a member 
of ASME, and he worked with design, wiring, and machining 
parts at the robotics department as well.
Jack is also a total vegetarian. “It’s mainly for health and 
moral reasons,” he comments.
Although he has no plans to quit school or join a circus, he 
remarks, “I’m practicing and performing more now than ever. 
It’s something I really want to 
do. Juggling is something I 
won’t ever give up.” He 
jokes, “who knows, maybe 
you’ll see me in Las Vegas 
some day!”
’Field to Factory: Afro-American Migration, 1915- 
194CU’ a Smithsonian Institution exhibition of artifacts 
and photographs from Black families who moved from 
the rural South to the industrial North, is appearing at 
CMU’s Hunt Library through February 7. Fourth Floor. 
Free.
Wednesday, January 27:
•Y olanda King, daughter of Martin Luther King, Jr., will 
speak in the Physical Education Building at the Al­
legheny Campus of the Community College of AL 
1 e g h e n y
County ¦ CITY LIGHTS
King’s lec­
ture, “A 
Dream De­
ferred,” will 
both com­
memorate 
her father’s
birthday and inaugurate the celebration of Black History 
Month at the Allegheny Campus. Free.
•Join WHTX personalities Kerri Griffith and Randy 
Brooks and test your endurance on computerized cardio­
vascular exercise machines at Fitness Night at 
Chauncey’s at Station Square. 8:00 to 10:00 pm. Co­
sponsored by WHTX and the City Club. Free. 
Thursday, January 28:
•Carnegie Mellon’s Department of Psychology will 
sponsor a speech by Dr. Lance Rips of the University of 
Chicago on “The Psychology of Proof ’ at 4:00 pm in the 
Adamson Wing of Baker Hall. Free.
Saturday, January 30:
•The second annual groundhog festival will take place 
from noon to 4:00 pm at the Frick Nature Center at 2005 
Beechwood Boulevard. Join Gordie the Groundhog and 
his friends when he predicts the weather for the coming 
spring. Free.
Thursday, February 4:
•Dr. Frank Vellutino of SUNY-Albany will speak on 
“Do Dyslexics See Letters Backwards?” Sponsored by 
CMU’s Department of Psychology. 4:00 pm in the 
Adamson Wing of Baker Hall. Free.
.t
Our new screen 
eliminates 
shady characters.
i J
Now one of the world’s fastest laptop computers makes 
every character bolder and brighter. That’s because the 
new MultiSpeed™ EL has a backlit screen. Which means 
you can easily read it anywhere you choose to use it.
And with 640K RAM and the NEC 16-bit V-30 proces­
sor, it can perform at 90% of the level of an original AT 
class PC. So come and see what speed, power and 
brilliance can do for you. For more information or the 
name of your nearest NEC dealer call 1-800-447-4700.
Take the Multi and run.
MultiSpeed ELcli
à
LITTLE ATHENS
2103 Murray Avenue • Pittsburgh, PA 15217
422-1330
OnJJ deliver^
MINIMUM $5 00
IN
GYROS
(Pittsburgh’s biggest and best)$2.45
MENU
SIIISIIKABOBS------------------------------------------------------S2.S5SIIISIIKABOB DINNER («Ui rk», tkemrr ol mrmt. paMry)------------SS.60
CHICKEN DINNER----------------------------------------------------M OO
CREEK SALAD------------------------------------------------------
ARTICHOKE SALAD-------------------------------------------------52 26
. SPINACH SALAD-----------------------------------------------------*200. CRAPE LEAVES------------------------------------------------------52 35. IIOMMOLS (chick pr«dip)--------------------------------------------SI-55. BABA CHANOCE (r*q.Um dip)--------------------------------------S1.55
. COMBINATION PLATTER (rte.»W. -~0-------------------------SS.95
> FALFIL (frVd ground chick pea* » onloa ud pantry)--------------------S1.M
. CHEESE 6- SPINACH PIES-------------------------------------------SI. 10
. RICE PLDDINC------------------------------------------------------* 94
. CREEK PASTRIES---------------------------------------------------* 55
. FRENCH FRIES------------------------------------------------------* 75
. DRINKS________________________________________
OPEN FROM 11 AM - 11 PM 
DELIVERY TIME 11 AM - 11 PM
v
*

---------------------------------------------------

Page 20—The Tartan—January 26,1988
Tartans Have Trouble Traveling
By STEWART LEVINE
Assistant Sports Editor
The Tartans were on the road this weekend. 
Far down the road in fact, making their first- 
ever trip to the Washington University Field 
House in St. Louis.
Travel hasn’t really suited them this year; 
following Saturday night’s blowout at the 
hands of the Bears, the Tartans are now 0-6 
away from the friendly confines of Skibo 
Gym.
This may be a cliche, but playing on the road 
really is different 
from staying at Car­
negie Mellon. One 
obvious difference as 
senior center Hart 
Coleman observes is,
“for one thing (at 
home) we got to sleep 
a little bit and get 
some rest.”
However, there’s 
more to going on the 
road than losing a few 
hours of precious sleep. Playing in the small 
gyms at the Division III level, the fans are right 
on the sidelines, and there is an interaction be­
tween the crowd, the players, and the officials 
unseen at the other levels of college sports.
Meeting John Carroll at Carroll Gym can be 
a nightmare for opposing teams. The fans up 
there not only know the players by name and 
nickname, but they often can identify the offi­
cials in the same manner.
The home-field advantage exists there, at 
Skibo Gym, and at other sites. The crowd 
noise does not get as loud as it is at the 
Metrodome, but when New York University 
came back against the Tartans, the crowd at 
Coles Sports Center made itself known to the 
Violets, the Tartans, and the officials trying to
keep control of the game. According to Cole­
man, an excited home crowd can really help 
out the players in terms of mental attitude.
Getting to the game also contributes plenty to 
the situation. All of the President’s Athletic 
Conference matches are bus trips. Some of 
them, like the trip to Bethany take you out into 
the middle of nowhere.
The ride starts on 1-79 southbound. Hang a 
left at Washington, Pa. and then go up and 
down the rolling hills of south-western Penn­
sylvania and northwest West Virginia.
The bus arrives 
typically an hour and 
a half before game­
time at an empty 
fieldhouse that stands 
in the middle of no­
where and dates back 
to World War II.
About a half-hour 
before the start, the 
fans begin to file in. It 
affects some more 
than others to see a 
mob of strangers sit down, respond to you at 
warm up, don’t care who you are, except to 
hope that you lose.
Other trips take more out of the team, the trip 
to NYU started at 6:30 am game day with the 
men’s and women’s teams boarding a bus for 
Pittsburgh International. Sleep on USAir isn’t 
as good as sleep in bed.
The flip side of University Athletic Associa­
tion travel is that it tends to psych up the 
players . One volleyball player confided be­
fore the UAA championships in October, 
“I’ve been counting the weeks to St. Louis and 
to Thanksgiving.” That level of excitement 
continued until the team finally stepped onto 
the court against Case Western Reserve Uni­
versity.
Freshman Lewis Jackson also feels that way 
on the road. “The last few games, I haven’t 
really been nervous, I’ve been excited.”
The trip home can either take ten minutes or 
ten hours, whether the game is football at 
South High or basketball in San Diego.
The ride back from Thiel this season after the 
football team slammed the Tomcats 31-7 was 
a quick ride. Never mind the lead foot of the 
bus driver, the high spirits of a team that had 
won big after a disappointing loss the week 
before made the trip very short.
A shorter trip that seemed much longer oc­
curred in San Diego after the women’s basket­
ball team lost in the opening round of the La 
Jolla Classic. It was a silent, 2 mile ride from 
the UC-San Diego campus back to the motel.
The team had been in Southern California 
for three days and their spirits were high. A 
disappointing loss to UCSD crashed their 
hopes. The loudest sound on that bus from the 
game was when I dropped a pen while writing 
notes.
From this point out, the trips for the Tartans 
are much shorter. Hiram is the farthest they 
will go the rest of the season, but it’s not the 
distance that makes the difference. The flight 
to St. Louis is shorter than the bus ride to 
Hiram, it’s the actual act of getting off campus, 
away from friendly faces and familiar sights 
that changes everything.
The Tartans are going to have to learn how to 
win on the road. Granted, they’ve met their 
four toughest opponents this season away 
from home, but a good team should be able to 
win anywhere.
Saturday is the team’s next trip, to Grove 
City, where they ’ ve lost their last two matches. 
Either playing on the road will stop fazing the 
team, or they’ll lose this one too, and another 
season will go up in smoke.
Lady Tartans 
Still Suffering
continued from page 24 
they roared to a 64-48 rout of the Lady 
Tartans. The game started slowly, with 
Chorgo and Val Kwaitkowski picking 1 
up two fouls apiece early in the first half. 
Both teams were not shooting well, Car­
negie Mellon going nine for 38 from the 
floor, while Thiel hit nine out of 33.
The similarities ended at the foul line, 
where the Lady Cats made eight of 11 
free throws, while Carnegie Mellon 
only earned two points in four attempts. 
Thiel’s 11-2 scoring run accounted for ' 
its 27-21 halftime lead.
Thiel dominated the game in the sec­
ond half. The Lady Cats converted 
many fast breaks into points due to the 
three on one advantage they often found 
they had under their basket.
At the 9:56 mark, Chorgo fouled out of 
the game, which weakened the offense 
of the Lady Tartans, as well as their re- 1 
bounding. On the night, Carnegie 
Mellon successfully crashed the boards
43 times, while Thiel pulled down 58 
rebounds.
Aimee Reber led the Carnegie Mellon 
scoring attack with 14 points and Trish 
Chorgo added 11 more. They also 
combined for 18 total rebounds. Julie 
Sierota paced the Thiel attack with 14 
points.
The Lady Tartans spend the week on 
the road, going down to Bethany tonight 
and travelling to Grove City Saturday. 
Their next home game will be Monday, 
February 1st against Mercyhurst Col­
lege at 6:00 at Skibo Gym.
Campus Accounts 
Accepted
Fast 
Service
Minimum 
Order Only 
$4.85
Delicious Quality
Dining Service 
______________ i
CMU —
x6666
Super
Value
Cash Accepted 
(Sorry, No Checks)
Expanded Delivery 
to Follow in Phases
7:30pm - 
7 Nights!
11:30pm
Dining 
Contracts
Accepted

---------------------------------------------------

January 26,1988—The Tartan—Page 21
x2903 Offers Delivery 
In 60 Seconds or Less
Let your telephone bring you the latest 
information on Campus News and Events.
Public Relations’ new 24-hour phone line 
(x2903) provides up-to-the-minute informa­
tion on campus activities:
• Sports schedules
• Fine Arts plays, art shows
• Lectures and movies
• Campus news and university announcements
Dial 2903 
24 hours a day
Tyson Keeps Crown
continued from page 22 
Iron Mike fought through the barrage of 
jabs with stark determination. He landed 
with combinations that started to work on
Holmes’ equilibrium and confidence.
A big overhand right from Tyson con­
nected just above Holmes’ left eye and 
sent him to the canvas. Holmes got up 
quickly and was given the standing 8 
count. Tyson sensed that the end was in ; 
sight and moved in for the kill.
Holmes tried to get back into his own 
rhythm, but Tyson was now in perpetual 
motion. The champion starting swinging 
with both fists and rotating his torso back i 
and forth to increase the speed of the 
blows.
A left-right combination sent Holmes 
down again. He got up fast and was given ! 
another standing 8. By this point, Tyson 
was like a hurricane getting ready to storm 
on the shore line that was Larry Holmes’ 
face.
Holmes was running for his life. One 
could see the look of panic in his face as he 
realized that Tyson was now beyond his 
control. At 2:55 in the 4th round, with 
only 5 seconds to the bell, Tyson un­
loaded a lethal right cross to Holmes’ 
head. The ex-champion’s left leg buckled 
and he went down for the third and last 
time. Cortez only waited a few seconds 
before ending the fight and awarding 
Tyson the win on a technical knock out.
Both fighters praised each other at the 
end of the fight. “I admire him,” said Ty­
son, and considers Holmes one of the 
greatest fighters of all times.
“He’s a good champion,” Holmes said 
of Tyson. “He’s awkward and hard to 
hit” In relation to his retirement, Holmes 
said, "This is it now. I’ll only fight again 
if the money is good.’’ - r
Our three-year and two-year scholarships won't make college easier. 
Just easier to pay for.
Bb7t Tg cCd ,T,tnM hMeiM IC))7.7 Ct e hIfC)eihfTao cCd 
ICd), gTtThf Ct Ct7u Firc Ax$w SIfC)eihfTah 
aec gCi gd)) MdTMTCt et, e))CUetI7h gCi 7,dIeMTCte) 
g77h et, M79MlCCmhu F)Ct. UTMf da MC S;o111 
e c7eiu 47M e)) Mf7 geIMhu 8B F55 qxj wFV 8Bu
Call x5242 
or stop by Hamburg Hall 
Ground Floor, West
ARMY RESERVE OFFICERS' TRAINING CORPS
Record-Setting Performance bv CrannellSwimmers Keep On Shining
By NEAL A. LEVENE
photo by Chris Young
The Carnegie Mellon Swim teams may be on their way to championship seasons
Tartan Staffw’riter
The men’s and women’s Tartan swim teams 
should be heading towards productive seasons 
this year as they enter the second half of their 
regular seasons. So far both teams are off to 
good starts.
The men are currently 3-0 in dual meets this 
year. The team started their season way back 
in November with a 4th place finish in the 
Grove City Relays held at Westminster. In the 
meet, the Tartans finished only one point 
behind Grove City, last years’ President’s 
Athletic Conference champion. 
f Carnegie Mellon then went on to beat West­
minster College 96-87 in a head-to-head meet 
at home in Skibo Gym on December 2. Their 
next meet was not until last week when they 
beat both the Hiram Terriers, 62-49, and Be­
thany Bisons, 85-63.
Last year the team finished in second place in 
PAC after completing an impressive 9-1 regu­
lar season. This was the best season a Carnegie 
t Mellon swim team had put together since 
1958.
While the Tartans were nudged out of a first 
place finish by Grove City, freshman Coach 
Jim Perkins did receive the Men’s Coach of the 
Year honors for the teams distinguished finish.
Leading up the men’s squad this year are 
senior co-captains John Olsavsky and Whit­
ney Foster. Last season, Foster received hon- 
I orable mention All American for the 800 
meter freestyle.
Greg Schooley, a junior industrial manager 
major, also received an honorable mention All 
American in the 800 meter free relay. 
Schooley will be defending his 400 meter 
individual medley title this year in the PAC 
j championships.. . n,
Similar to the men’s team, the women’s team 
is also coming off of a second place finish in
the PAC championships. The team is cur­
rently 2-1 in dual meets. After a 4-3 season last 
year, the lady Tartans only missed the PAC 
championship by 3 points.
Earlier this season, the women took 5th place 
in the Grove City Relay. In their next match 
against Westminster College, at Skibo Gym, 
Francesca Crannell set a pool and school rec­
ord with a 56.9 finish in the 100 meter frees­
tyle. Unfortunately, the team lost the meet, 
100-74.
Last week, the women competed in dual 
meets away against the Hiram Terriers and 
home against the Bethany Bisons. The Tar­
tans defeated the Terriers 58-43 and beat the 
Bisons 76-69.
During the meet Crannell, originallyjrom 
Silver Spring, Maryland, broke the record she 
had recently set against Westminster with a
56.4 finish in the 100 meter freestyle finish. At 
the same meet she also set a pool and school 
record in the 200 meter freestyle with a 2:02.6 
finish. She had held the old record of 2:03.9.
On top of her two recent records, co-captain 
Crannell is a two-time defending PAC cham­
pion in the 50 meter freestyle and the defend­
ing champion in the 100 meter freestyle.
This weekend both teams competed in the 
Kenyon Invitational. Kenyon is the perennial 
Division III Champion, and Coach Perkins 
went into the meet hoping to gain some expe­
rience for his otherwise relatively young 
teams.
Members of the squad will be the guests on 
this week’s Sportsline, Thursday at 8:30 pm 
on WRCT. The teams will next swim against 
the John Carroll Blue Streaks on Saturday, 
January 30 in Skibo Gym starting at 1:00 p.m.

---------------------------------------------------

Page 22—The Tartan—January 26,1988
Josh Ruben: On Boxiti?
Tyson Takes Holmes with TKO
In a championship bout, the challenger is the 
first on to come out of the dressing rooms, out 
of respect to the champion. But Larry Holmes, 
true to his style in that he must be the center of 
attention, waited an extra 10 minutes before 
entering. The ex-champion entered in all of 
his pomp and circumstance; Marvin Gaye’s 
“Let’s Get It On" being piped in over the P. A. 
system, the traditional robe and mammoth 
entourage.
In marked contrast, Mike Tyson came out 
immediately after Holmes with no music, no 
robe, and plain black trunks. His pace was 
brisk; he knew what his business was—box­
ing, and he was ready for business. The most 
“glamorous” thing around him was his cham­
pionship belt, which he wore proudly and 
reverently.
One of the most impressive things about 
Tyson is his record: 32-0 with 28 knockouts, 
16 of which came in the first round. His raw 
power, strength and stamina are reflected in 
the numbers. Holmes’ numbers likewise re­
flect a great champion; 48-2 with 38 knock­
outs.
Nobody with any boxing knowledge was 
putting a great deal of money on Holmes. At
38 years of age, Holmes’ age was the biggest 
advantage for the 21 year old Tyson. Some 
fight analysts said the 17 year difference 
would benefit Holmes in terms of experience. 
Holmes was one of the best of all times, when 
he was in his prime. But that was almost a 
decade ago.
In the first round, both fighters came out 
swinging. Tyson, literally looked like a dog 
hungry for a cat. Tyson is frightening to 
watch. His demon-like eyes coupled with a 
stout, compact form make him look like a pit­
bull who hasn’t been fed for a week. How any 
fighter can be in the ring with him and not feel 
intimidated by Tyson’s appearance alone, is 
unbelievable.
Holmes used his reach to hold Tyson off.
Tyson was forced back and started to get 
frustrated, but he soon got inside to work the 
body. Tyson threw 31 punches in the first 
round and landed with 12. Holmes had only 
thrown 10 punches, hitting with 3.
In round two, Tyson kept up the pace. 
Holmes would not match his intensity. The 
former champ did not want to overexert him­
self and wear his legs down early. If he fought 
Tyson’s fight, he would be totally exhausted
by the 5th round. “I just kept waiting for the 
5th,” said Holmes. He explained how Tyson 
usually started to slow down in the middle 
rounds, based on films of Tyson’s earlier title 
matches. Holmes’ only hope was to slow 
Tyson down and control the pace of the fight.
Holmes kept trying to set up a right uppercut 
by leading with his left. The round was un­
eventful until Tyson landed a right cross that 
staggered Holmes in the closing moments.
In the 3rd round, Holmes began to employ 
his jab. Tyson said of these punches, “The 
rights weren’t hitting me cleanly. They were 
just glancing blows.” Referee, Joe Cortez had 
to step in several times as Holmes kept grab­
bing Tyson in order to wear down and frus­
trate the young champ. Once again, in the 
closing seconds of the round, Tyson connected 
with a powerful right cross that put Holmes 
against the ropes.
The fourth, surprisingly, started out as 
Holmes’ round. The left jab emerged and 
began to land early. The crowd went crazy as 
Holmes connected on Tyson's jaw. For those 
few early moments in the 4th round, Holmes 
looked to be back in championship form. But 
continued on page 21
TEST THE LIMITS OF YOUR IMAGINATIONWIN $3000
Enter the 6th Annual 
HONEYWELL FUTURIST Award Competition
Vision. Imagination. Technology. The world 25 years from now.
Today’s dreams become tomorrow’s reality. Write your vision 
of the world in 2013 and enter Honeywell’s 1988 Futurist 
Award Competition.
If you're a full-time student at an accredited U.S. college or 
university, we invite you to use your imagination and 
knowledge of technology to write a 1,500 word essay on the 
advances you foresee in one of several topics—electronics, 
industrial automation, aerospace, semiconductors, or
automation in homes and buildings—AND their social 
impact on the world of tomorrow.
If your ideas are among the most imaginative and technically 
feasible, you may be among the 10 winners awarded $3,000.
For Futurist Contest rules, entry form and a free 17 x 22 color 
poster of the Jean-Michel Folon print pictured above, call this 
toll-free number
1 (800) 328-5111 Ext. 1581
Don’t delay. You must request your entry form by March 4, 
1988 and mail your entry by March 18,1988.
Honeywell
IRONHEAD GETTING ITCHY?
Rumors abound that Pitt’s All-Ameri­
can running back Craig Heyward will 
not return this fall, but instead jump to 
the NFL. The Passaic native has not 
attended a class this semester and has 
informally met with Eric Metz, a repre­
sentative of sports agent Bruce Allen.
NBA VOTES ALL-STARS
The NBA announced its starting line­
ups for the All-Star Game to be played in 
Chicago next month. Michael Jordan 
was the top vote getter, and he will be 
helped by fellow East starters: Moses 
Malone, Larry Bird, Dominique Wilk­
ins, and Isiah Thomas.
Magic Johnson was the top pick in the 
Western conference, and will be suiting 
up with Akeem Olajuwon, Alex Eng­
lish, Karl Malone, and Lafayette Lever.
PENGUINS REBOUND
The Pittsburgh Penguins have re­
bounded with the return of Paul Coffey, 
beating the New York Islanders and 
Chicago Blackhawks to move back into 
fourth place in the heated Patrick Divi­
sion race in the NHL. The Pens are now 
only five points behind the division 
leading Philadelphia Flyers, and two 
points out of the second place Islanders 
and Washington Capitals.
FLORES RESIGNS
Tom Flores, head coach of the Los An­
geles Raiders, resigned his position last 
Wednesday. In nine seasons with the 
Raiders, Flores captured one World 
Championship and compiled an 83-53 
record. Managing general partner A1 
Davis has said he hopes to name a suc­
cessor by March, and one of his early 
prospects is Pitt defensive coordinator 
Tony Dungy.
COLLEGE UPSETS CONTINUE
The list of upsets continues to grow, 
this week’s victims included: Duke
over second ranked North Carolina 70- 
69, number four Kentucky stunned by 
number 19 Florida at home 58-56, the 
fifteenth ranked Hoyas of Georgetown 
falling at home to St. John’s 65-58, and 
number 18 North Carolina State losing 
to Wake Forest 71-67.
ARBS WORK OVERTIME
Major League Baseball begins its sal­
ary arbitration process next week, with 
some big salary players still in the lot. 
Included in the arbitration list, consist­
ing of 94 players, are both of 1987 Most 
Valuable Players, George Bell and 
Andre Dawson. Dawson is reportedly 
asking for more than $2 million for 
1988.
Additionally, an arbitrator named Kurt 
Gibson and six other players free agents 
as a result of baseball’s 1985 free-agent 
collusion case. Tom Roberts declared 
that baseball owners had conspired to 
restrict free agent movements in 1985. 
He went on further to say that all 62 free 
agents from that year could file for indi­
vidual damages.
TYSON KO’S HOLMES
Mike Tyson retained his unified 
heavyweight boxing title by knocking 
out Larry Holmes in the fourth round 
Friday night. Tyson was in control of 
the fight throughout, and knocked the 
former champion down three times in 
the fourth before the fight was stopped.

---------------------------------------------------

Scoreboard
F
January 26: 
January 27: 
January 28:
January 30:
January 31:
Tartan Calendar
Women’s Basketball at Bethany College, 7:00 pm
Men’s Basketball vs. Bethany at Skibo Gym, 8:00 pm (WRCT, 88.3 FM)
Sportsline on WRCT-FM, 8:30 pm
TopiC: Swimming
Swimming vs. John'Carroll University at Pool, 1:00 pm 
Women’s Basketball at Grove City College, 1:30 pm 
Men’s Basketball at Grove City College, 3:30 pm (WRCT)
Hockey vs. Niagara University at Lakeview, 5:30 pm 
Hockey vs. Niagara University at Lakeview, 11:15 am (WRCT)
DARTS STANDINGS
MINORS
The next IM Board Meeting will be held 
Thursday, February 4th at noon in the Gym 
Conference Room.
S2xA$S ;V SBFSxV 
Bowling
Commissioner Randy Brown x5501 
Please pay all bowling fees as soon as pos­
sible.
The IM Report
$(B ;­ $;w6BAuuu
Darts
Commissioner Rob Moses 683-8409 
Please report all match results to Commis­
sioner Moses as soon as possible.
Chess
Commissioner Matt Murbach x3939 
Matt will be getting all matches played in the 
near future.
Backgammon
Commissioner A1 Margarella x8995 
Schedules will be available soon, please pick 
up rules in the IM office.
Basketball
Majors - Pat Jeffries x4299 
Intermediate - Eric Jacobs x5510 
Minors - B.J. Rottscaefer x5503 
"'J Women - Pat Jeffries x4299 
Final schedules are out for all Leagues and 
can be picked up in the IM office. Please play 
all games as scheduled, and make sure win­
ning team is circled on scoresheet. Game 
officials must sign the game scoresheet to 
make the game official. Please note, Intramu­
ral players can play on only one team.
S2xA$S wx­;V4 j2
All sports listed have due dates of January 
28th, 4:30pm, unless otherwise noted.
Floor Hockey
Majors - Eric Bittner x8650 
Intermediate - Jeff Cohen x4134 
Rules clinic will be held Thursday, January 
~28th at 4:30pm in Thistle Hall. Please call 
Mike at x2214 after 4pm to schedule practice 
time.
Pinochle
Commissioner Pete Gaertner x5516 
Rules can be picked up in the IM office.
Handball
Commissioner E.J. Birdy x2214
Entry forms can be obtained in the IM office.
Wrestling
Commissioner Stephanie Janczak x4229 
Practice dates will be posted soon, the tenta­
tive date for the Wrestling finals will be Satur­
day, February 28 at 9am.
Water Basketball
Commissioner Carl Bell x5509 
Practice dates can be arranged through the 
IM office at x2214.
Table Tennis - Singles and Doubles
Commissioner Stu Fox x4226 •
Entries will be due February 4th at 4:30pm.
It’s playoff time again, as Raquetball, Bowl­
ing, and Table Tennis wind down their season, 
we will have a full report next week. All 
officials are encouraged to pick up their pay 
slips from Mr. Birdy in the IM office. Also, IM 
President Rob Schlackman will represent the 
Intramural Department at a reception on Sun­
day, January 31, at 8:30pm in the Wherret 
Room
The first playing day for the IM Floor 
Hockey league will be Monday, February 1 st. 
The organizational meeting for all captains 
and officials will be Thursday January 28th at 
4:30pm. All Floor Hockey Officials Club 
members and any new members are required 
to attend. Those interested in joining the 
Hockey Officals Club should contact Mike 
Mastroianni at x2214. Pay for officials will be 
$4.00 per game, and floor hockey players may 
also be members of the club.
The 1988 IM Basketball season is now in full 
swing. The IM Department reminds teams to 
show up at their scheduled times. Due to the 
fact that there are 100 teams in this year’s play, 
there will be no make up games. Any ques­
tions should be directed to the IM office, room 
101 of the Gym, or x2214. With the first week 
of play completed, the IM poll of the top 
basketball teams is in, with the ATO 
Wolfpack, Sudsuckers, PIKA Power, and 
SUPA garnering number one rankings. The 
following is the current IM poll of the 1988 
season:
Majors
1. ATO Wolfpack
2. Beta
3. The Squad
4. DRAMS
5. 1085 Lions
Intermediate
1. Sudsuckers
2. ATO Wolverines
3. Orange
4. DU-A
5. Theta XI-A
6. Kappa Sigma
Minor
1. PIKA Power
2. UCC
3. DU-B
4. CIA
5. ATO Over 200
Womens
1. SUPA
2. AFROTC
Do You Want Some
Action?
Join The Sports Staff 
and Get It! Meeting 
Tonight at 7:00 In the 
Tartan Office
pwLDIVISION AwLHOOTWOO10DU-A20PILAM A21WRITER’S BLOCKI0X21ATO-SCHLEPS11WHARF RATS22SEX-ASYLUM11PILAM HRS03UNCONTROLLED MUSCLE 01
TROJANS01QwLME-GRADS01PILAM B31
SAE10DIVISION BwLIMMEDIATE DUCK03ATO-OVER 20020DANGLING POINTERS12SHIP OF FOOLSI0EN21BUSHMEN10
WOODLAWN11WOMEN’S BASKETBALLwLWITH OURSELVES01SUPA10DU-B03AFROTC10
5 C&D PLAYERS00DIVISION CwLCIA SHORT TEAM01PIKA POWER30SOPHISTICATED LADIES01KAPPA SIG-B10
THETA XI C11MEN’S BASKETBALLSDC12MAJORSwLCSO01THE SQUAD20LONESOME LOSERS02ATO WOLFPACK10
DRAMS10DIVISION DwL1085 LIONS10PI LAM20FIXERS10MONEY FOR NOTHIN/GSIA10SPIRIT-B11WOODSTOCK10BETA00WAWAW’S III11SUPA MAGIC01THE K-MEN01THE MONKS01SAE F TROOP03ALABAMA SLAMMERS02
PIKA-A02DIVISION EwL
YOGI’S BEARS10INTERMEDIATESTILL A PULSE10NORTHwLHISTORY GRADSI0ORANGE10PIKA-C11PKT LTL’S21ZOO-B01PIPES21KDR02ROBBER BARONS11
BEN-WA-BALLS11DIVISION FwLUNDERDOG01CIA20SDC-FINAL EFFORT02FLY BY NIGHT10
VDB WHITE I10SOUTHwLMONKEY PUS01THETA XI-A20PROUD PETE01SUDSUCKERS21SAE-C02DU-A11
KAPPA SIGMAI1DIVISION GwLTHE BOUNCERS11AFROTC10THETA XI-B01SCOBELL MILKMENI0DYNAMIC RAMS02UCCI0
PHI KAP-AI1EASTwLNAVY ROTC01CIV E’S20APHIO LOBS02ATO WOLVERINES10
G.M.D.S.11DIVISION HwLTHE REPLACEMENTSI1SIG TAUI0SPUDSHOOTERS11ATO SFP10200-A01FECAL SOUP10BETA W.P.H.A.01L.Y.T.P.0I
THE WEESUCKS0IWESTwLMAY’S MUCHROOMS01SAE-B21
PIONEERS-A10DIVISION IwLDAVE’S TEAM10WHAT?10MATHLETES10SOLD SHORTI0PHYSICS02SMODNOCS10ATO CUBS02DTD11
PHI KAP-WEST01
PIONEERS B02
yTMf Mf7 Sda7i 8CU) ICrTt. da MfTh Sdt,eco $f7 $eiMet feh ,7IT,7, MC 
f7)a TMh i7e,7ih lc ai7h7tMTt. Mf7 aTImh Cg Mf7 r7rl7ih Cg Mf7 B,TMCiTe) 
8Cei,u SCr7 aTImh rT.fM l7 rCi7 be)del)7 Mfet CMf7iho gCi 79era)7o U7 
f7i7 eM SaCiMh UCd), )Tm7 MC MfTtm MfeM Cdi aTImh UT)) l7 e )TMM)7 l7MM7i Mfet 
NTb7ihTCthD aTImhu web7eM BraMCiu
Editor-In-Chief Karl Barnhart....................................................................Denver 27-24
Business Manager Russ Seligman...................................................Washington 24-21
News Editor Eric W. Leuilette.........................................................Washington 21-14
Assistant News Editor Chris Young...............................................Washington 28-20
Features Editor Howdy Pierce...............;.................................................Denver 21-17
Features Editor Judy Haraburda.................................................................Who Cares?
Sports Editor Josh Ruben.................................................................Washington 21-17
Assistant Sports Editor Stewart Levine...................................................Denver 24-14
Diversions Editors Michael Rose.......................................v..........Washington 27-21
Assistant Diversions Editor Bruce Kasrel...............................................Denver 34-21
Photo Editor AloredSt Powell....................................................................Denver 21-14
Art Editor Grant Carmichael................................................................Who’s Playing?
Production Manager Dustin L. Frazier....................................................Denver 28-10
Copy Editor David N. Levy...............................................................Washington 29-24
Contributing Editor John Friedmann ......................................................Denver 35-13
Contributing Editor Neil Greenblum.............................................Washiington 27-24
Contributing Editor Drue Miller...............................................................Denver 28-20
(

---------------------------------------------------

photo by Josh Kuben
The Tartan
2xA$
IM • CLUBS • VARSITY • PROFESSIONAL
Tartans Live Those St. Louis Blues
By JOSH RUBEN
Tartan Sports Editor
ST. LOUIS—The Carnegie Mellon men’s 
basketball team traveled to St. Louis, Missouri 
last week to take on the Bears of Washington 
University. Excitement was in the air sin- 
cethis was the first time the two schools have 
ever met on the court. Also, this was 
Washington’s first home University Athletic 
Association contest. Washington had never 
been in a conference before this season.
Washington was coming in with a four game 
winning streak, following a 75-64 loss to New 
York University, also of the UAA. They had 
a strong reputation as a great shooting team 
that functioned well as a unit on the court.
From the opening tip off, Carnegie Mellon 
was in constant trouble. After some back and 
forth scoring, with Hart Coleman leading the 
Tartan offence, the Bears pulled away early.
The Bears made an exhibition of their incred­
ible shooting ability by hitting four 3-point 
field goals in a row. Senior forwards, Jon 
Bergman and Paul Jackson, plus senior gaurd, 
Kevin Suiter proved to be deadly from the 
outside. The score jumped to 16-4, as the 
Tartans kept getting shut down on offense and 
shot three airballs in a row.
Both teams started out in a 3-2 zone defense, 
but Washington kept switching from the zone 
to a man-to-man. The Tartans went to the 
man-to-man after Lewis Jackson checked into 
the game, replacing senior gaurd Tommy 
Franklin. Franklin was called for a technical 
foul for pushing Washington's center, Jeff Un- 
terreiner, at the 10:37 mark in the first half.
The Tartans got into foul trouble early, put­
ting the Bears into the bonus after the first 9 
minutes of play. The Bears consistency from 
the field carried to the free throw line, hitting 
19 of 23 foul shots.
At first, the tighter defense started to work 
for the Tartans. At 10:18, the Tartans were 
down by 15 points, the Bears’ biggest lead of 
the half. Soon, Carnegie Mellon started to pull 
down some rebounds and work the ball inside 
against a tough Washington defense. Slowly, 
the Tartans started to chip away and in 4
minutes, had the score to 30-23. But then the 
Bears’ passing game really went to work. 
Executing basic, but effective, pick and roll 
maneuvers, they kept an impressive lead. At 
halftime, the Tartans were down, 39-31.
In the second half, the situation only got 
worse for the Tartans. If ever a baketball team 
dominated a game, it was Washington. Out­
side shooting, defense, passing — everything
basketball, when Coleman sank 2 freethrows. 
The score was now 52-33.
Try as they might, the Tartans could do no 
right in the second half. The Bears had them 
stopped dead on offense. They just could not 
get the ball inside to Coleman or Darryl Long. 
Then, if all this was not bad enough, the 
officials started in on the Tartans.
In two minutes of play, three technical fouls
Hart Coleman pushes up a jump shot after a pass from Tommy f ranklin (15).
the Bears did worked.
Coach Edwards explained, “We have a lot of 
seniors who know each other and play together 
well.” In addition to having four seniors on the 
starting lineup (Guard Kevin O’Connell is a 
junior), one of them, Suiter, is an All-Ameri­
can. Also, the Bears have a deep bench, which 
Edwards employed early. “We [used the 
bench] extensively last year,” said Edwards. 
“We can sometimes go eight men deep.”
The Tartan s were outplayed in the early 
minutes of the second half. The Bears con­
trolled the ball in the first five minutes and 
drove their lead to 15, making it 46-31. Tartan 
Head Coach Larry Anderson finally took a 
timeout at 15:16, following a foul from Tartan 
David Smith.
The first Carnegie Mellon points did not 
come until 12:32, after almost 8 minutes of
were called on Tartan players. The first came 
when Coleman made a lay up and was called 
for charging and said something about the call.
The next came when Smith was called for a 
foul committed by David Sikora. The referee 
did not like Smith’s tone of voice when he 
questioned the call.
The foul-fiasco ended when Coleman 
missed a slam and was forced to hang on the 
rim. The referee totally missed the fact that he 
was fouled in the process and had lost his 
balance.
With the personal, team and technical fouls, 
plus the Bears’ field goals, the Tartans were 
suddenly down by 28.
What really suprised both coaches, was that 
neither of them were involved in any of the 
technicals. Edwards admitted, “I didn’t know 
what (the technicals) were.” Anderson was
blunt, “The refs have got to bring some integ­
rity to the game with the officiating,” he said.
Coleman was not bitter but said, “The ref let 
Washington get away with a lot of fouls. It was 
a good physical game.”
In the closing moments, Anderson put in the 
members of the bench who have not played 
much this season. The game was over, more or 
less, after the first 5 minutes of the second half, 
but the Tartans did not lay down. Coleman 
summed the second half simply, “They came 
out hot, and we came out cold.”
The final score, 81-46 dropped Carnegie 
Mellon to 5-7 overall to 2-3 in the UAA, and 
2-1 in the President’s Athletic Conference. 
Washington continued its winning streak, 
going to 7-5 overall, and 3-1 in UAA play. 
Coleman and Suiter led all scoring with 24 
each. Lewis Jackson was second for the Tar­
tans with six points.
The crowd played a part in the game. Over a 
thousand fans cheered the Bears and jeered 
(sometimes getting ugly) the Tartans. Cole­
man commented, “We need fans like that. It 
would be more fun.”
Last Wednesday, the Tartans played a tough 
game against Thiel, winning 80-77. Thiel was 
another team that was dangerous from the 
outside. Coleman had 29 points in a game that 
the Tartans could have easily lost.
“We got ahead and started to relax,” said 
Anderson. The Tartans had a 36-26 lead at 
halftime that quickly dwindled as Thiel got 
good offensive rebounds and hit crucial 3*
nnint chatc
Coach Anderson advises Lewis Jackson.
Lady Tartans Bow Before Washington and Thiel
By NATALIE HAWRYLUK
Tartan Staffwriter
January at Carnegie Mellon - the year should 
be 1988, the spring semester started two weeks 
ago, and the women’s basketball team should 
have two more tallies in the win column.
Well, some things are just not meant to be. 
It’s still 1987 on the basketball court; the Lady 
Tartans suffered two losses at home this week, 
one to Presidential Athletic Conference rival 
Thiel on Wednesday and one to University 
Athletic Association opponent Washington 
University. Their record falls to 5-9,1-2PAC, 
2-2 UAA.
Saturday afternoon, the Bears of Washing­
ton University handed Camegie Mellon a 
coldhearted 61-54 loss. The first half of the 
game was highlighted by the tough defenses of 
both teams, as seen by the 44 total points 
scored in 20 minutes of play - 22 per team.
The Lady Tartans were paced by the outside 
shooting of junior guard Lisa Lightner, who 
had two three-point hoops and 14 total points 
in the first half. However, the team was held 
back by Trish Chorgo’s three early fouls and 
its 14 turnovers to the Bears’ eight.
The second half opened with a 9-2 Lady
Tartan scoring streak, which prompted the 
Bears to put a very effective full-court press 
into action.
With 8:26 left to play, Washington had 
pulled within 2 points of Camegie Mellon. A 
minute later, with the score 47-41 in favor of 
the hosts, junior forward Aimee Reber was 
charged with her fifth personal foul.
The Lady Tartans were able to hold on to 
their lead until a backcourt violation gave the 
ball and a 53-52 lead to Washington with 1:31 
left to play. The Bears ended the game with an 
8 point outburst while Camegie Mellon mus­
tered only 2 points.
Leading scorers for the Lady Tartans were 
Lisa Lightner with 21 points, including three 
three-point shots, and Aimee Reber with 11. 
Trish Chorgo was the leading rebounder, pull­
ing down 7. Amy Wiegner and Angie Logan 
had 12 points each for Washington.
Statistically, Camegie Mellon and Washing­
ton were evenly matched, except for the fact 
that Camegie Mellon had 26 turnovers and the 
Bears had only 14.
Wednesday evening, the Lady Cats of Thiel 
used Camegie Mellon as a scratching post as
continued on page 20Lisa Lightner takes a jump shot against Washinton last week in Skibo Gym.photo by Ian Hall

---------------------------------------------------

D
The Tartan
IVERSION
ENTERTAINMENT • COMICS • CALENDAR • CLASSIFIEDS
INSIDE
wx­BNquuuuuuuuuuuuuuuuuuuuu2e.7 NE
David Naster in the Wherrett Room
­jS;wuuuuuuuuuuuuuuuuuuuuuuuuu2e.7 NR
Dan Bidwa talks Gothic Rock at AB 
Concerts
Broadway At Heinz Hall
By STEPHANIE REEDY
Diversions Staffwriter 
The Pittsburgh Symphony Society and 
PACE Theatrical Group will open their 
1988 Broadway Series in Heinz Hall with a 
National Tour Production of the hit Broad­
way musical Big River. The show, featur­
ing music and lyrics by Roger Miller and 
based upon Mark Twain’s novel The Ad­
ventures of Huckleberry Finn opens Tues­
day, January 26th at 8pm and runs until 
Sunday, January 31st.
Big River was one of several attempts in
1984 to create a musical honoring the 100th 
anniversary of the publication of The Ad­
ventures of Huckleberry Finn, and was the 
only one successful enough to appear on 
Broadway.
The show got its start through the efforts 
of Rocco and Heidi Landesman (co-pro-
ducers of the original production) to unite 
Twain’s story with the music of Country 
and Western songwriter Roger Miller. 
Miller, known for such popular songs as 
“King of the Road” and “Kansas City Star”, 
was reluctant to write the score, but was 
eventually convinced after reading Bill 
Hauptman’s script.
Big River’s popularity and success led it to 
the 1985 Tony Ceremony, where it re­
ceived seven awards, including Best Musi­
cal, Best Book, Best Score, and Best De­
sign for both sets and lighting.
This year’s tour includes much of the 
original design and costumes which re­
ceived Tonys in 1985, including sets by 
Heidi Landesman, costumes by Patricia 
McGourty, lighting by Richard Riddell, 
and sound by Otts Munderloh.
The production is directed by Michael 
Greif, who was assistant director of the 
American Repertory Theatre, La Jolla 
Playhouse and Broadway productions of 
Big River. The choreography is by Janet 
Watson, the stage movement and fights by 
B.H. Barry.
Huckleberry Finn is played by Romain 
Fruge, who also played Huck Finn on 
Broadway in the New York company of 
Big River. He also received the 1985 Helen 
Hayes Award for his performance in Baby 
at the Olney Theatre. Jim, the runaway 
slave, is played by Michael Edward-Ste-
vens whose other performances include the 
Houston Grand Opera’s production of 
Porgy and Bess.
Other members of the cast include Barry 
Lee as Tom Sawyer, Walker Joyce as the 
King, Michael Calkins as the Duke, and 
Jessie Janet Richards as Mary Jane Wilkes.
Overall, Big River’s performances in 
Pittsburgh this week should be of good 
quality if one can expect the producers and 
cast to keep the same energy and perform­
ance level that was seen in the original 
show.
Look Back and Laugh: The 
Mary Tyler Moore Show
By MARK BENISH
Tartan Contributing Editor 
Mary Tyler Moore is a fabulous woman. I 
saw her in a movie this summer on HBO, and 
she looked as fabulous as any 50-year old can 
look. The movie was good, but the main plot of 
the movie was the fact that her husband 
(played by Ted Danson) had an affair because 
Mary wasn’t beautiful, exciting, or vibrant any 
more. Who’s zoomin’ who? I think these
70’s TV 
Classics
with 
vMark Benish
qualities exemplify Mary Tyler Moore her 
whole life, from when she was the bombshell 
on The Dick Van Dyke Show of the ‘60s to 
Finnegan,Begin Again, another movie she did 
on HBO around three years ago with the late, 
lamented Robert Preston. I’m here to talk 
about the little TV series she did in between. 
The Mary Tyler Moore Show is slightly un­
derrated as a comedy series, because it was 
released around the same time as two other 
blockbuster comedies, All in the Family and 
M*A*S*H. These two comedies were innova­
tive, but as far as pure comedy content, The 
MTM Show w ins with an ever-so-slight mar­
gin. The personalities created by the show's 
writers and the top-notch casting of characters 
were the main sources of comedy. These ex­
tremely gifted actors, coupled with splendid 
writers, made extremely humorous shows out 
of main plots that were not much more than 
“the same old thing.”
The talent of this cast can be shown best by 
their future successes after leaving the show. 
Mary herself is still doing quite well, although 
most of her acting is in made-for-cable and 
made-for-TV movies. Despite that, her two at­
tempts at variety shows following the end of 
The MTM Show were not too successful. Ed 
Asner did the unheard of by taking his charac­
ter and moving to a dramatic series, the criti­
cally acclaimed Lou Grant. That was the first 
time ever that a dramatic series was a spinoff 
of a comedy series. Cloris Leachman is still 
going strong in Mel Brooks movies (She is 
quite funny in them). Her spinoff, Phyllis, had 
moderate success. Valerie Harper, who is 
perhaps the finest television comedy actress of 
the modem era, had her own show on NBC, 
Valerie (This show, however, is grounds to 
repeal the honor 1 have bestowed upon her). 
Her spinoff (Yay!), Rhoda, was a fabulous 
show. The only year between 1972 and 1976 
that The MTM Show didn’t win Best Lead 
Actress was 1974-75, when Harper won it for 
Rhoda. Considering Lou Grant's Emmys, The 
MTM Show must hold some kind of record for 
most Emmys by spinoffs of a series. Gavin 
MacLeod is now more famous as the captain of 
The Love Boat. Betty White had her own 
series, which was not a spinoff, and is now on 
the hit series The Golden Girls. The late Ted 
Knight met moderate success in his series Too 
Close For Comfort. All of these actors, with 
the exception of MacLeod, were multiple 
Emmy winners.
The show was set in WJN, Channel 12 in 
Minneapolis. Mary Tyler Moore played Mary 
Richards, who had just been hired as associate 
producer of the evening news show. The off- 
the-wall personnel at the station were de­
signed to test Mary’s patience, and did a very 
good job of it. Asner played Lou Grant, the 
gruff, easy-to-anger news producer. Lou's 
perturbation was the catalyst of much of the 
show’s comedy. Knight was the authoritative- 
sounding, egocentric, and dumb (there’s a 
combination) anchorman, Ted Baxter. Ted 
and Lou’s exchanges were classic comedy. 
MacLeod played Murray Slaughter, the witty 
news writer. Some of Murray's one-liners 
were the height of tele-art. Georgia Engel 
played Georgette Franklin, Ted's girlfriend 
and, later, his wife. The sum total of Ted's and 
Georgette’s IQ's would be a very poor bowl­
ing score. One year after the show began. Betty 
White entered the scene as the man-chasing 
“Happy Homemaker” of WJN, Sue Ann Ni­
vens. (Girls, Betty won two Emmys chasing 
men. You can really gain a lot of success 
chasing guys.) The station was last in ratings 
when Mary came and didn’t change during her 
time there, but they sure did get more laughs 
than any other station.
Mary was not safe at home, either. When she 
came home, she had to deal with Harper, who 
continued on page D3
Festival Starts - 
Women Behind 
the Camera
By LORI MAURER
Diversions Staffer iter 
A variety of Pittsburgh institutions are 
collaborating to sponsor Women Behind 
the Camera, a series of films by and about 
women. The sponsors, including the Car­
negie Museum of Art, Pittsburgh 
Filmmakers, Bloomer’s Restaurant, 
WYEP 91.3 FM and Chatham, Pitt, and 
CMU, are granting Pittsburghers the 
privilege of viewing a series of films by 
socially conscious women directors. 
These women want to make their pres­
ence known in a traditionally male domi­
nated field by presenting women's roles 
in society after the feminist movement in 
a new and more favorable light.
The film series, which started two 
weeks ago and will tun until April, will 
not only present works of talented 
women directors but will also feature 
lectures and workshops enhanced by the 
presence of these filmmakers. Some 
women will discuss their works, experi­
ences, and socially responsible approach 
in examining women’s roles in society 
and as filmmakers. These include Nina 
Menkes, Joy Shannon, Su Friedrich, 
Pamela Jones, Iman Hameen, Christine 
Choy, and Marta Meszaros of Hungary. 
At the close of the Women Behind the 
Camera series in April, noted filmmakers 
and scholars of the Pittsburgh commu­
nity will join forces in a symposium ad­
dressing the issues of filmmaking, repre­
sentation of women in film, and femi­
nism. It is the effort of these Pittsburgh 
film authorities over the past two years 
that made Women Behind the Camera 
possible.
The screenings for the film series will 
take place at the Carnegie Museum of
continued on page DIO

---------------------------------------------------

Page D2—The Tartan—January 26,1988
Special Offer to Faculty and Students
A New Journal Published by the College of Fine Arts
Comedy Commando David Naster Plays Wherrett Room
By AMANDA COHEN
Diversions Comedy Critic
Starved for comedy since Alex Cole’s show 
last semester, students packed the Wherrett 
Room on Saturday night to see the stand-up- 
and-run-around comedy of David Naster. The 
“Coors Comedy Commando” only had to 
throw out a few opening lines before he had 
everyone securely roped in.
After determining the desired filth level, he 
launched into a high-energy romp through his 
free-associating mind. Naster’s own set mate­
rial was cleverly woven with spots for audi­
ence interaction that demonstrated his speed 
and wit. Barely would he start up a conversa­
tion before a new topic would pop up, sending 
him off on another tangent. Even during sto­
ries he was ever alert to the slightest opportu­
nity to interact. At times it was difficult to tell 
whether he was improvising or using stock 
material because it all sounded so polished.
Naster attributes his supercomedian power 
mode to his recent loss of forty pounds. The 
difference is most obvious when one com­
pares the lean, mean, humor machine on stage 
to the slightly paunchy guy on the posters. 
According to Naster, it’s changed his act, 
freeing him from his strictly prepared mate­
rial and letting him fly. Naster’s direct, up­
front approach let people accept him early in 
the show. “It takes the barriers out,” he said. 
“It doesn’t make it like ‘Shut up and listen, 
I’m gonna do a show,’ ‘cause that’s not my 
style.”
Naster’s style is to find out what the audi­
ence wants and then heap it on. After gaining 
the people’s consent, he spoke openly on the 
subjects of sex, religion, and race; subjects 
that he said make some students squirm. Like 
most good comedians, he told the truth. Nas­
ter was at once devilish, honest, critical, and 
lovable.
Though most of his topics were fairly uni­
versal to comedians, his approach was often 
unique, refreshing, and sometimes surprising. 
Some of his best lines were asides and com­
ments on the real subjects. At one point, Naster 
remarked out of nowhere that “Parents who 
put their kids on a leash should be slapped.” 
After the initial shock laughter, he added, “If 
you were a kid and they put a leash on your 
back, would you not turn into a pit bull real 
fast?” And then he turned into a pit bull.
The comedy danger zone earned its title again 
when Naster started talking to folks in the front 
rows and on the floor. But instead of just 
razzing people, Naster made them think. He 
made Darryl think more seriously about his 
relationship, and he made Esther think about 
the meaning of wearing a sweatshirt that said 
“Squeeze” across her chest. “You don’t see 
guys wearing shorts that say ‘fondle’,” Naster 
noted. He also made everyone in the back rows 
glad they hadn’t come up front when he started 
doing his water fountain impressions.
What with student activity space as limited as 
it is, it shouldn’t have been surprising that 
Naster’s show ran up against a cabaret musical 
act at Scotland Yard and a WRCT concert in 
the Ballroom. He gleefully adapted to the 
intrusive elements by commenting on the 
“dark gothic music people” roaming the halls 
and by getting everyone in the Wherrett Room 
to imitate the singers next door at the Yard. 
Singers, if we bothered you, Naster apologizes
— but it was all for the sake of comedy. Thank 
you for the extra laughs, and the opportunity 
for Naster to show his audience rapport.
Naster displayed his own musical talents by 
playing the mike stand and the stool like a 
drum set while providing the melodies on 
kazoo. He also juggled a beat with bean-filled 
balls and introduced an instrument called a 
waterfone, which resembles a trombone mute 
with parallel spikes and is played with a violin 
bow. It makes a noise not unlike many beached
whales. Naster claimed to use tapes of water­
fone music to spook hitch-hikers out of his car.
Early in the show, Naster identified the Car­
negie Mellon comedy audience as intellectual, 
responding well to what they liked and then 
shutting up to wait for the next funny line. Ten 
years of experience have taught him to recog­
nize these important details. At a comedy club, 
the response to Naster’s act would have been 
almost continuous laughter.
Naster’s current work includes cable and 
network performing as well as nightclub dates 
and college shows. Coors Light Beer sponsors 
some of the college dates, promoting Naster as 
one of the ten Coors Comedy Commandos. 
Among those college touring acts are the
three-man group Mary Wong and Taylor 
Mason, all of whom played here last year.
Though some had opposed the idea of having 
a beer company as a sponsor for college 
shows, Naster feels that Coors’ intentions are 
harmless. “They want people to think of 
comedy, Coors Light, and then have a be^jj,” 
he explained. “Their whole thing is, ‘Don’t go 
partying and get slammed.’ They’re real care­
ful about that.”
At the end of the show, Naster tried his best 
to get in a plug for whatever comedians would 
be coming to perform on campus in the future. 
Unfortunately, nobody in AB Coffeehouse 
knew who was coming. At least they got the 
semester off to a good start. ^
WRCT TOP TEN PLAYLIST
January 2 - 14,1988
Artist - Record - Label
1) Negativland - Escape From Noise - SST
2) Various - No Age - SST
3) Half Japanese - Music To Strip By - 50 Skadillion Watts
4) Gerry Hemingway Quintet- Outerbridge Crossing - Sound Aspects (W. Ger.)
5) World Saxophone Quartet- Dances and Ballads - Nonesuch
6) Cosmic Psychos - LP - Mr. Spaceman (Australia)
7) Heretics - “Lesbian Grudge Match” - Get Hip
8) Blackhouse - Holy War - RRR
9) Leather Nun - Force of Habit - IRS
10) Legendary Pink Dots - Stone Circles - PIAS-US
ldrtân
at 8 pm *
ce, Skibo
in time for
CarnegieMellón
Are you 
ready 
for this
encounter?
Bo*nòo'aS<popa
Theater Three
A Journal of 
Theater and Drama 
of the Modern World.
Theater Three, published bi-annually by 
Carnegie Mellon’s College of Fine Arts, sets out 
to further theoretical, critical, and interpretive 
discourse on the drama of the modern world.
Each issue contains original, informed and lively 
essays and reviews, working to establish the 
continuity of a movement that emerged with 
Romanticism and continues in the best dramatic 
writing today.
Volume Three: Now on Sale $3.75 
The Text and the Theater 
Fregoli and Witkiewicz 
Drama and Re-Creation Theater in Riga
Past issues are also available at this discount.
Volume One: Volume Two:
Bentley at 70 The Legacy of Brecht
Ibsen Revalued Kraus on Wedekind
Modem Mystery Plays Pirandello in Louisville
Drama Box Office 268-2407
Drama Office 268-2392
Theater Three Office 268-2404

---------------------------------------------------

January 26,1988—The Tartan—Page D3
A IOHN HUGHES FILM 
KEVIN BACON ELIZABETH McGOVERN
SHE'S HAVING A BABY
A New Comedy About The Labor Of Life
PARAMOUNT PICTURES PRESENTS A IOHN HUGHES FILM SHE S HAVING A BAB> KEVIN BACON ELIZABETH McGOVERN 
Executive Producer RONALD C0LB> Written Produced and Directed b* IOHN HUGHES 
j vimiTj stmmcit uuiiKMto <&•"! [miuiuo*i RS HiC0«0S;hucwsmusk] A PARAMOUNT PICTURE
The Mary Tyler Moore Show
continued from page D1
played Mary’s upstairs neighbor and eventu­
ally her best friend, Rhoda Morganstem. 
Rhoda did not test Mary’s wits too often, but 
two other residents of their apartment complex 
did. Rhoda’s mother, Ida, was played by Rosie 
.. .er.. .Nancy Walker, who was just as over­
bearing as her voice would suggest and her 
size wouldn’t Ida was more of a source of ag­
gravation to Rhoda because of her constant 
comments on her marital status. However, she 
let her feelings about single women be known 
to Mary on several occasions. Her opinion, ba­
sically, was that any woman not married by the 
time she is twenty-two should undergo deep 
psychiatric help to find out what the problem 
is (sound familiar, girls?). Leachman played 
Phyllis Lindstrom, the landlady. Phyllis’ 
flights of fancy were a source of consternation 
for Mary, who felt obligated to pull her out of 
the jam into which she had gotten herself. 
Harper and Leachman both had spinoffs, 
which makes this apartment complex the 
world record holder for most spinoffs by an 
apartment complex.
Many MTM Show episodes were award- 
winning and quite humorous, but there is one 
that will live in my mind forever, that one 
being “Chuckles Bites the Dust.” Playboy 
Magazine called this show “the best Mary 
Tyler Moore rerun.” The plot begins like this. 
Chuckles is a clown famous in the Minneapo-
Gothic Rock 
Pounds, Twangs 
and Hammers in 
the Ballroom
By DAN BIDWA
Diversions Record Critic
Last Saturday night, the Skibo Ballroom 
shook to the gothic rock of The Garden, Slave 
Cave, and Of A Mesh. Jointly presented by 
WRCT and AB Concerts, the show gave the 
campus, as well as a generous portion of the 
surrounding community, a taste of this rarely 
featured style of music.
After a late start, The Garden, a local band 
with a sound most easily compared to the 
Cocteau Twins, got the show off to what 
eventually became a somewhat numbing start 
With their moderately undanceable rhythyms 
(often of a waltz, or three beat nature, which 
doesn’t really inspire mad twisting in the 
aisles) and a distracting hiss at the start of each 
song (from their drum machine), the band's set 
didn't really catch until halfway through, when 
they started playing their newer music. Their 
set improved after that point, but still ran 
longer than any of the other bands, much too 
long for a three band show. However, they left 
the stage with a superb rendition of Christian 
Death's "Electrode", which sounded like one
of their favorites.
Slave Cave woke everyone back up with
their rocking style of gothic. With a guitarist 
who looked like he could have come straight 
from The Cult and a monotonal singer, the 
band came off as some weird cross between 
the Misfits and Aerosmith. Nevertheless, their 
music, an extremely danceable mixture of 
guitar and gothic, was one of the best parts of 
the concert, and a well-placed contrast to The 
Garden and Of A Mesh.
As for Of A Mesh, they provided a hypnotic 
finish to the concert. With a lead violinist 
along with the normal bass, guitar, and drums, 
the band was the darkest of the three, provid­
ing a huge tribal beat for the violin and guitar 
to scrawl over. Easily the winner of the "Most 
Gothic" award for the show, the band sent 
everyone home with ringing ears from their 
roaring wall of sound. Overall, the show was a 
success, providing the knowledgeable with a 
worthwhile dose of music while exposing a 
number of walk-ins to something new.
lis area. Chuckles dresses up as a peanut to be 
the grand marshall for a parade, and is 
trampled to death by an elephant trying to eat 
him. If you think that’s funny, you should see 
the show. Murray has some hilarious one lin­
ers. One of them is after Mary said, “It’s a good 
thing the elephant didn’t go on a rampage.” 
Murray replied, “Yeah, you know how hard it 
is to stop after one peanut” As Murray kept 
ripping off these one liners, Lou and Murray 
would be in hysterics, and Mary would yell at 
them for being so insensitive. She found no 
humor in this. However, at the funeral, Mary 
was noticeably withholding laughter as the 
minister named each of Chuckles’ characters. 
The others grew angry with her, but the priest 
told her that Chuckles’ goal in life was to make 
people laugh. “So,” he said, “laugh. Laugh for 
Chuckles.” She began to cry incessantly. A 
true masterpiece of television.
I know thatTte MTM Show was on at 9:30 on 
Saturday nights during its run dates. But now, 
I can’t find it running on any station. Produc­
ers of independent channels, listen up. Start re­
running this show sometime. You can’t con­
tinue to deprive the public from watching this 
fine comedy show. Nor can you continue to 
deprive me of watching Mary. She can turn on 
my world with a smile.
THE MARY TYLER MOORE SHOW
Run Date: September 19,1970 to September 3, 1977
Network: CBS
Producers: Ed. Weinberger, Stan Daniels
Emmys:
• Outstanding Comedy Series: 1974-75,1975-76,1976-77
• Outstanding Performance by an Actor in a Supporting Role in a Comedy Series: 
Edward Asner 1970-71,1971-72,1974-75; Ted Knight 1972-73, 1975-76
• Outstanding Performance by an Actress in a Supporting Role in a Comedy Series: 
Valerie Harper 1970-71, 1971-72, 1972-73; Betty White 1974-75, 1975-76
• Outstanding Directoral Achievement in Comedy, Single Program of Continuing 
Series: Jay Sandrich, ‘Toulouse Lautree Is One Of My Favorite Artists” 1970-71
• Outstanding Directoral Achievement in Comedy, Single Program of Continuing 
Series: James L. Brooks and Allan Bums, “Support Your Local Mother" 1970-71
• Outstanding Performance by an Actress in a Leading Role in a Comedy Series: Mary 
Tyler Moore, 1972-73, 1973-74, 1975-76
• Actress of the Year : Mary Tyler Moore 1973-74
• Best Supporting Actress in a Comedy: Cloris Leachman, “The Lars Affair” 1973-74, 
“Phyllis Whips Inflation” 1974-75
• Writer of the Year(Series): Treva Silverman,”The Lou and Edie Story” 1973-74
• Outstanding Writing In a Comedy Series(Single Episode): Ed. Weinberger, “Mary 
Richards Goes to Jail” 1974-75; David Lloyd “Chuckles Bites the Dust” 1975-76; 
Allan Bums, James L. Brooks, Ed. Weinberger, Stan Daniels, David Lloyd, and Bob 
Ellison, "The Last Show" 1976-77
Man. Woman. Life Death. Infinity.
Tuna casserole.
ONE SPECIAL SNEAK PREVIEW
Horoc Trv Toll It All
Mh7JA Cd7Sn7m MJuldTJ( )JhlJd( w. 
at a theatre near you

---------------------------------------------------

PageD4—The Tartan—January 26,1988
DH 2210 THIS WEEK
Thursday, January 28th
The Jazz Singer (1927)
A landmark in motion picture history, this film was the first “talkie” ever released. The 
plot will be familiar to those who saw either the 1953 Danny Thomas re-make or the 1980 
version starring Neil Diamond and Laurence Olivier - nice Jewish boy with good voice 
decides to become professional musician instead of cantor, thereby breaking father's 
heart. The film may appear to be slowly dying of old age, but A1 Jolson's rousing 
performances carry the show.
Director: Alan Crosland
Starring: A1 Jolson, Warner Oland, William Demarest, Myma Loy 
Showtimes: 6, 8, 10
Friday, January 29th
The Witches of Eastwick
This film, based on a novel by John Updike, stars Cher, Susan Sarandon, and Michelle 
Pfeiffer as three friends who are bored by the lack of available men in their small town, 
and unknowingly conjure up a visit by a sexy, seductive devil of a man who adds 
excitement (and trouble) to their lives. Jack Nicholson plays the devil who manages to 
seduce all three women and makes the mistake of underestimating the power of their 
amateur witchcraft. Although at times bizarre, and even stomach-turning, an entertaining 
film to see.
Starring: Michelle Pfeiffer, Cher, Susan Sarandon, Jack Nicholson 
Showtimes: 6, 8, 10, 12
Saturday, January 30th
No Way Out
A thriller starring Kevin Costner as a naval officer investigating a murder in which he is 
the chief suspect, but he knows his boss (Gene Hackman) was responsible. Also stars Sean 
Young (Wall Street). Following the success of The Untouchables, this film was instru­
mental in mediating Kevin Costner’s rise to stardom.
Starring: Kevin Costner, Gene Hackman 
Showtimes: 6, 8, 10, 12
Sunday, January 31 st
Night of the Living Dead
The first in a Sunday night series of George Romero films, this low-budget horror film 
stars Judith O’Dea and Russell Streiner. A cult classic filmed in Pittsburgh, the story 
centers around zombies who enjoy eating the entrails of the living.
Director: George Romero 
Showtimes: 6, 8, 10, 12
By STEPHANIE REEDY
Women of Pop Music
9
By MIKE SCHWARTZ
Diversions Popular Critic 
Singing sensation Whitney Houston returns 
to the top of the charts with Whitney, her 
follow-up to the #1 smash album, Whitney 
Houston.
Whitney first found herself a place in music 
history back in 1985 when her first album, 
Whitney Houston, became the best-selling 
debut album ever by selling more than eight 
million copies. Whitney earned herself an­
other spot in music history when Whitney 
debuted at #1 on the album charts in 1987. 
Whitney has now logged more than thirty 
weeks in the top ten after spending the first 
eleven weeks of chart life in the #1 position. 
Whitney Houston is still in the top two 
hundred after almost 150 weeks in a row. The 
only album that has remained in the top two 
hundred longer than Whitney Houston is Dark 
Side of the Moon by Pink Floyd.
When “So Emotional” hit #1 on January 2, 
1988, Whitney became the third act in music 
history to accumulate six number one singles 
in a row. In fact, “You Give Good Love,” 
Whitney’s first release from Whitney Hous­
ton peaked at #3 and was her only single that 
did not reach the number one position. Her six 
number one singles are “Saving All My Love 
for You,” “How Will I Know,” “Greatest 
Love of All,” “I Wanna Dance With Some­
body (Who Loves Me),” “Didn’t We Almost 
Have it All,” and finally, “So Emotional.” 
Since “So Emotional” is only starting its 
decline down the top one hundred it is un­
known which of the remaining eight songs 
Whitney will release next Her best bets are 
the ballads “Where You Are” and “I Know 
Him So Well,” a duet with Whitney’s mom, 
Cissy Houston. Either of these two singles has 
a good chance of reaching #1.
Something From Tiffany
Tiffany, that red-hot redhead from Norwalk, 
California, reaches the number one spot on the
album chart with her self-titled debut album 
only eighteen weeks after she entered the 
charts. This makes her the first teenager to 
reach No. 1 on the album chart in almost 25 
years. This also makes her the first female teen 
star ever to land a No. 1 album.
Tiffany first burned up the charts when her 
debut single, the smash remake of Tommy 
James’ “I Think We’re Alone Now,” reached 
No. 1 in November and stayed at the top of the 
charts for two weeks. Her follow-up single, the 
ballad “Could’ve Been,” is a sure bet to reach 
No. 1 on the singles chart and with the momen­
tum of these first two smashes almost anything 
this sixteen year old pop sensation releases 
could go top-ten.
Although Tiffany’s already got one number 
one single under her belt and a sure shot for a 
second, her phenomenal success may stop 
there. There aren’t really any “bad” songs on 
her album but only three, the ballad “Kid On A 
Comer” and the dance tunes “Should’ve Been 
Me” and “I Saw Him Standing There,” have a 
good shot at making it top-ten, though 
“Should've Been Me” might go to the top.
Her next single, “I Saw Him Standing 
There,” is a remake of the Beatles’ “I Saw Her 
Standing There” and is scheduled for release 
sometime around Valentine’s Day.
Her debut album, Tiffany , is already on its 
way to triple platinum. With the help of a few 
good songwriters and her producer George 
Tobin it’s a safe bet to assume that we’ll be 
hearing more in the future from this teen-age 
wonder.
Diversions 
.where the fun is.
*
THE OAKLAND REVIEW WANTS YOU! . .
What?
Why?
The Oakland Review, an annual student run magazine 
which publishes Carnezie Mellon students literary 
and artistic endeavors needs submissions for their 
April issue. Literary: poetry, short stories, one 
act plays. Artistic: black: and white prints, drawings, 
photographs, designs that work as artwork, or hi 
resolution photographs oi prints, drawings, or designs, 
sized app. 8.5" x 11".
Wh.QH • Deadline : February 15» 1988
oc;
LO
CD
o 
c 
• —
^^0 J*0 ^ Literary submissions can be typed and turned in with cover
letter, to Skibo Inio Desk in envelope marked: Oakland Review ¿ditors.
ft1 hO? Borgia Lydia Sine,
Literary and Head Editor
at 521-6412
CR
Linda Peters, Art Editor 
at X8822, or 683-2729
4

---------------------------------------------------

BLOOM COUNTYby Berke Breathedsdt,7, lc SuNuwu
YOU ALWAYS
MOCK MY POLITICAL 
INSI6HTS ANP IT 
MAKES Me
irregakpless” map as a rtnSf w wer
WORP. HATTER /)'
~HEN
MAP AS A HEN WETTER... 
OOOPPYE ANP 
600P PAY.
FROM A P0CH7CAL 
perspective, ddf
POLE SIMPLY CAN'T HfNi 
HIS CAKE ANP BAT IT, 
TOO.
THERE// A WRY 
POLITICAL INSIGHT 
PNP 1 PIPN'T MIX 
MY METAPHOR/ P/(7 
IT MEET YOUK APPROVAL ?/
NOT REALLY. THE 
PHRASE IS MEANINGLESS. 
IF YOU HflME YOUR CAKE, 
YOU CAN STILL EAT IT. 
IT'S A PEAP CLICHE.I
ANP THATS HECK, 
m WHOLE AIN’T NO
KTT ANP 
CAP00S6.
SKIN OFF 
MY P0U3LE 
STIFF NEGATNE 
UPPER 1
U/ i ('
mJlil //I A»#*
OKAY.. YOU'RE PEPRESSEP 
'CAUSE THE STARS REYEALEP 
THE TRUTH LAST NIGHT ANP 
THE TRUTH ¡mS 'BUY AT+T 
AT 34::. \
%w COWS AXE 0AAKING /
<(, POGS ME EATTNCf 
VEGETABLES' PEOPLE ARE 
HEARING SILLY HATS 
ANP SAYING GOOFY 
THINGS*
FOX THE LOVE OF MIKE, HAS evexy- TH/N& exwe
HAW/RE??

---------------------------------------------------

1^71. B
Overload

---------------------------------------------------

©nennnilc saimni's new adventures 
--------By Eva Sandor----------
¦Hr*>—1H¦¦1->-<o5°¦om73m<OH>o>73>C/5
m2t—<HmZorrH>2HH73-o
HHH03onc~>z>IXm¦-nt—i73
mHc2>HHzm£¦¦”VH>
73tnzoDOo¦In>H
¦mr-cz>o><mZ¦
II¦¦'73oinzmX'mC/>CO73-HHzHHH>2
cnH>HCA)9 mXnCOtn03>03
m73¦-r-mXs:o1—173>
Ot—1Hr*2:m73t-i—iCD
m*nt—is:mt->C/>m>—i2mZm
73mzo73oS pztn*—<zmt—
¦c/>nzO-i¦00t-r-m4&

---------------------------------------------------

Our apologies for screwing up 0ie sequence of 
lai issues "¿freâây ¿flashback and ¿Max".
To redeem, ourselves, xoe will reprint it in (he 
proper orientation.
'Thank ~$>ufor your support
to
By Bob Jenkins
?
4h
Ay«) $2?«f £
¦WV6'^* T
-|5ifl\A\3NOl
?m 
)p.ym
y-
m.
tffsK-r
ft®4 v
own^Jl ' noi 336jno
*#
SFNp <ÿûC\MMX) no
,^Gv)fî®iiïTi 
(%shZUafi4)"
->zg«ij5nQ-0N
\
1/
*U 4°
p
B a*w . Î7.
'*1 lui^i
97Î WRÉira
r 4«J atj.
I w«p»j(0y ‘,:lur
Buijjqcs 4snf put?
to*y pwt>'^s
^ W •** I « «pjodwig
V*W'#}|/A J-A^^gggj

---------------------------------------------------

Add a little variety to your 
next three weekends
WednesdayTuesdayThursdayMondaySaturday
JanuaryAB Square Dance, Skibo. 9pm
Square Dance 
Friday, 9 pm — Ballroom
Instruction provided 
Live Music
Carribean Beach 
Dance
Skibo 9 pm
»Live
SMusic
AB Dance
funded by your activities fee
jtTM7, yec Cg SCdMfU7hM7it 27tthc)betTe
200 Ross Street, Pittsburgh, Penna. 15219
“ Great Expectations — Whereprecision haircutting is a tradition, as well as an art . . .and at affordable prices,
¦¦ WTIH THB COUPONI save $2.00 °na ¦I Precision Haircut' complete with shampoo ft blow stylenow only $13.00 (Skur1Januar^3M 988^_______ _ CMKCTtTMfUj
SATlsF^lloNGUA^NTEEDi ""
Great Styles Start at...
APPOirjiMfNl iSlltftCflTiOSSAPv WMII I
_ €HP€cnm®ns
PRECISION HAIRCUTTERS
237 Atwood Street
Across the street from 
Oakland Post Office 
con tiuedpaa
Start the New Year* Right! / © >
FREE: > f a> * f. Iteas & herbs, refreshments & samples,0 blood pressure, nutrition information, massage and relaxation techniques _ c TEST: ^your fitness, nutrition, lung capacity, 0 °/o of body fat hDEMONSTRATIONS: *stretching, karate, dance, aerobics, lower back exercises «•
JANUARY 29- 10:00-4:00 SKIBO HALL
sponsored by SENATE & HEALTH AWARENESS div. of STUDENT AFFAIRS
WP£R SCMC DCUVFRY/'
16 INCH
PEPPERONI PIZZA $4.7°,
Saturday 11 am - 2 am
Sunday through Friday 3 pm - 2 am
r
0
t
#
I,
f
m
%

---------------------------------------------------

January 26,1988—The Tartan—Page D9
Gratuitous Joe Bob New Year’s Resolutions
1988 New Year’s Resolutions (I would of 
done em three weeks ago, but I was fulfill­
ing last year’s resolution not to do anything 
on time):
Numero Uno: Start smokin again. Smoke 
1 every available legal smokin area left in 
the country. Always request to be seated on
_ MnA CnS mnAT 
( On o)A w.r­AjbB
the border between smokin and no-smokin, 
nd hope for a strong draft. When people put 
up signs that say “Thank you for not 
smoking,” say “Thank you for not bathing.” 
Numero Two-o: Don’t go on any radio 
show called “Murphy in the Morning.” 
Numero-Three-o: Eat more donuts at 3 am. 
Numero Four-o: Go back to the health club 
that cost $19,000 for a life-time executive 
platinum-jockstrap membership and demand 
"hat an 18-year-old nymphette in a skintight 
purple leotard demonstrate some deep knee 
bends and do an analysis of my blood sugar, 
blood nicotine, and blood Mexican food.
Numero Five-o: Start a late-night TV 
charity that cuts off all food to Sally 
Struthers.
Numero Seis: Go down to the Marine re­
cruiting office, talk to the guy for six hours, 
^ell him how I’ve always wanted to go over 
to the Middle East and kick some Arab 
hiney, then say, “No thanks, just browsing.” 
Numero Seven-o: Join Alcoholics Anony­
mous so I can go up to the bartender and 
say, “Hi, I’m Joe Bob Briggs, I’m an 
alcoholic, and I’d like a drink.”
Numero Ocho: Go by and see the Detroit 
newspaper editor that started an ad cam­
paign called “Ethnic Jokes Aren’t Funny.” 
Tell the guy that I think the following words 
should NEVER be used in the newspaper: 
dago, wop, bohunk, guinea, spic, kike, 
rughead, camel jockey, burrito-breath, 
chink, canuck, limey, gu-gu, dutchie, heinie, 
kraut, limberger, greaseball, skibbie, polack, 
slant-eye, squarehead, gook, coon, spoon- 
bottom, Poncho, mick, harp, yellow-belly, 
pretzel, frog, hun, weasel-neck, and ugly-on- 
a-stick. All of these words should be 
replaced with “Mr. Potato Head.”
Numero Nine-o: Dress up like a pimp and 
go on the Geraldo Rivera Show as a 
spokesman for the legalization of poodle 
hunting. Bring pictures of what a poodle 
looks like after taking two blasts from a 
sawed-off twelve gauge at close range. Act 
like I have no idea what Geraldo could be 
upset about.
Numero Ten-o: Find that little girl that 
wrote “Dear Mister Jesus”and crack her over 
the head with a two-by-four.
Speaking of face-eating cockroaches, just 
when you thought it was safe to go back to 
the little tourist island where they sell 
dolphin paperweights, SOMEBODY moves 
in and builds a giant multi-national cock­
roach-breeding factory. It’s the first great 
drive-in flick of ’88 — “The Nest.” There’s 
this company that’s trying to build the 
ultimate Roach Motel: the roaches check in, 
and once they get in there, a Mr. T cannibal 
roach eats em alive. Only thing is, all these 
Mr. T cannibal roaches start hangin around 
the town library chewin up World Books, 
and then they start hangin around the diner,
MOVIE & ROCK 
POSTER SALE
JAN. 25-26-27
//Skibo Ballroom 
10am-5pm
PHOTOS FROM MOVIES.ROCK & TVROCK & MOVIE POSTCARDS FOREIGN MOVIE POSTERS ALL THE NEWEST MOVIES OVER 1000 DIFFERENT POSTERS IN ALL
SKI BASH 1988
PFaa)TIeMTCth ,d7 lc s7lu LW
A fun evening at Seven-Springs for new skiers and old alike!!!
Motorcoaches depart from Skibo on Saturday, Feb. 13 at 3:00 
We’ll leave Seven-Springs at about 11 :30 that night.
Cost: $24.00-lift ticket and 
$9.25-rental (if needed)
$2.00-lessons (strongly recommended 
for first timers)
Send the coupon and check to: University Ski Club, Box 798 Donner 
Make checks payable to University Ski Club. Questions? Call ext. 4322
Check here:
.lift ticket and bus 24.00 
«rental 9.25
.lesson 2.00
Name__________
Campus Address. 
Phone_________
Emergency Phone---------------------------------------------—
I understand that skiing can be dangerous and hold 
Universitu Ski Club . it’s emoloyees and associates harmless in the event that I am 
injure<T> I also agree to allow Universitu Ski Club to seek medical attention on mu 
behalf and I understand that my registration fee may be forfeited if I fail to appear 
for departure. Signature------------------—---------------—----------------------------------------—
wadin around in the chicken fried steak and 
one day they get REAL hungry and eat a 
German shepherd in about 15 seconds, and 
pretty soon we got giant mutant insects 
running for city council.
Next thing, the evil money-grubbin mayor 
calls in a lady scientist to get the roaches 
under control, only she’s always dreamed of 
BEING a roach herself and so she falls in 
love with em. Too late, anyhow, cause 
they’ve already found the meat department 
at the supermarket and they’re workin on the 
kitty population. So the Roy Scheider 
police-chief-type guy calls in Homer, the 
local roach expert, and shows him some 
chewed-up mangled veal and says, “Could 
roaches do that?” And Homer says “Yeah, if 
they had a knife and fork.” And pretty soon 
the roaches aren’t only EATING the 
population, they’re turning into whatever 
they eat: half-roach, half-kitty; half-roach, 
half-German shepherd; and, of course, half­
roach, half-mayor.
The roaches check in — and the roaches
check out. Eight dead bodies. Arms roll.
Dog mutilation, with gratuitous maggots.
Rat-eating. Cat-eating. Roach stampede. 
Exploding house. Cat Roach. Roach Mayor. 
Roach Float. Dempster Dumpster cockroach 
attack. Fat lady devoured by roaches. 
Microwaved roaches. Boiled roaches. Phone 
lines cut by roaches. Frozen roaches. 
Gratuitous quotations from Carl Jung. Toilet 
Fu. Syrup Fu. Drive-In Academy Award 
nomination for Fran Luz, as the sheriff, for 
saying “Why are the roaches killin people 
and how do we stop em?”; Terri Treas, as 
the evil lady scientist, for saying “I so 
admire their ability to reproduce without the 
contribution of their male counterpart” and 
for LYING to protect her roaches; Robert 
Lansing, as the mayor, for saying “I’m sorry 
but you’re just going to have to trust me”; 
and Terence H. Winkless, the director, for 
using a newspaper headline that says 
“Mayor’s Wife Dies of Natural Overdose.” 
Four stars. Joe Bob says check it out.
The roaches check in... etcetera, in The Nest.
r
FORBES GALLERY SCHEDULE
n
JANUARY 26th-31st
FEBRUARY 2nd-7th
9th-14th
l6th-21st
23rd-28th
MARCH 2nd-7th
9th-14th
16th-21st
23rd-28th 
30th-4th
APRIL 6th-llth
13thl8th 
20th- 25th 
27th-2nd
Barry Sumrall 
Angela Tumolo
Elaine Erne 
Autumn Farole
Stephen Snyder 
Greg Kessler
Lycia Trouton 
Jim Wei
Paul Rydzewski 
Christine Liotta
Kathleen Flaherty 
Nadine SUverberg
John Lechner 
Sean Jackson
Albert Morales 
Micheál Parker
GRADUATE STUDENTS GROUP SHOW
Dan Hendel 
Nancy Kress
Edie Locke 
Stephanie Englert
Lindsey Nicholson 
Kimberley Bailey
Carolyn Wilkinson 
Bridget Hoyle
JIM DENNEY GROUP SHOW

---------------------------------------------------

Page DIO—The Tartan—January 26,1988
Women Behind the Camera Festival Runs Thru April •
continued from page D1
Art, Chatham College Eddy Theatre, Univer­
sity of Pittsburgh, Pittsburgh Filmmakers 
Oakland Screening Room, Filmmakers at the 
Fulton, Carnegie Mellon, and Bloomer’s 
Restaurant on the South Side. The program 
for the series from now until April is as 
follows:
On January 29 at the Carnegie Museum of 
Art, the Austrian film Practice of Love (1984) 
by Valie Export will be shown at 8 pm. This 
film, in German with English subtitles, is an 
“anti-romance in which the heroine, oscillat­
ing between two relationships, gradually dis­
covers that both are impossible... because the 
male world and its power structures cancel the 
possibility of love.” General admission is $3 
and $2.50 for students, members and senior 
citizens.
Riddance (1973) by Hungarian filmmaker 
Marta Meszaros will be screened at the Car­
negie Museum of Art on January 30 at 8 pm. 
This is a story of lovers from vastly different 
worlds. The woman is a textile worker 
ashamed of her humble origins who tries to 
conceal them from her new suitor’s family. 
The climax of the movie results in the meeting 
of the disparate families at lunch. Riddance is 
in Hungarian with English subtitles. General 
admission is $3 and $2.50 for students, 
members and senior citizens.
Visiting American filmmaker Nina Menkes 
will discuss filmmaking in general and her 
experiences as a woman director in particular 
at the Carnegie Museum of Art at 8 pm on 
February 5. Her film, Magdalena Viraga: The 
Story of a Red Sea Crossing (1986), will be 
shown. Magdalena Viraga is the story of a 
disillusioned young prostitute who spiritually 
evolves in Menkes’ stunning first feature 
film. Menkes’ work is laden with beautiful 
images and passage« from the poetry of Ger­
trude Stein, Mary Daly, and Anne Sexton and 
stars her sister, Tina Menkes. General admis­
sion is $3 and $2.50 for students, members and 
senior citizens.
Another film by Hungarian director Marta 
Meszaros will be shown at the Carnegie 
Museum of Art on February 6 at 8 pm. Adop­
tion, in Hungarian with English subtitles, is the 
story of a young, widowed factory worker who 
plans to have a baby with her married lover. 
When her lover learns of her plan, he ends the 
affair and the woman attempts to adopt a 
troubled teenager instead. General admission 
is $3 and $2.50 for students, members and 
senior citizens.
Three short films by San Francisco-based 
filmmaker, Gunvor Nelson, will be shown at 
the Carnegie Museum of Art on February 12 at 
8 pm. Nelson has been an important filmmaker 
since the 1960’s and his three films deal with 
the visual and aural rather than the literal. 
General admission is $3 and $2.50 for stu­
dents, members and senior citizens.
Nine Months, another film by Hungarian 
director Marta Meszaros, will be screened at 
the Carnegie Museum of Art on February 13 at 
8 pm Once again, Meszaros deals with a 
factory setting in the story of an unwed mother 
who furthers her plight by becoming involved 
with the factory foreman and giving birth to 
another child alone. Nine Months is in Hungar­
ian with English subtitles. General admission 
is $3 and $2.50 for students, members and 
senior citizens.
Visiting American filmmaker Joy Shannon 
will host a showing of her film Echo in Eddy 
Theatre at Chatham College. The film deals 
with three black women of different historical 
backgrounds who unite to resist racial, sexual, 
and political oppression. Admission is free.
The American film, Born in Flames (1984) 
directed by Lizzie Borden, will be shown at 
Chatham College’s Eddy Theatre at 7 pm on 
February 17. Borden’s film is a futuristic tale 
of a group of feminists who collaborate in an 
attempt to gain control of the state-owned
media. Admission is free.
Two visiting American filmmakers will be 
present at the University of Pittsburgh on 
February 18 at 7 pm in conjunction with Pitt’s 
black history month program. Iman Hameen 
and Jean G. Facey will discuss their roles as 
filmmakers and the portrayal of women in 
their films. Hameen’s film, Unspoken Con­
versations, examines a woman who feels over­
shadowed by her musician husband. Happy 
Birthday Dr. King, directed by Jean G. Facey, 
details the struggle in the establishment of a 
national holiday commemorating Dr. Martin 
Luther King Jr. Admission is free.
At the Carnegie Museum of Art on February
19 at 8 pm, two American films will be 
featured. The Dream Screen, by Pittsburgh 
filmmaker Stephanie Beroes, examines the 
representation of women in cinema and cul­
ture. The efforts of Jane Weinstock, Claire 
Pajaczkowska, Anthony McCall and Andrew 
Tyndall were collaborated to create Sigmund 
Freud’s Dora, which portrays female sexual­
ity in the context of a Freud case study. Gen­
eral admission is $3 and $2.50 for students, 
members and senior citizens.
On February 19 and 20, the new films of 
Californian Chick Strand will be presented at 
the Pittsburgh Filmmakers Oakland Screening 
Room. Strand’s five films are noteworthy 
ethnographic contributions to American cin­
ema. General admission is $3 and $2 for 
members and students of Filmmakers. 
Another film directed by Hungarian Marta 
Meszaros will be shown at the Carnegie 
Museum of Art on February 20 at 8 pm. 
Women presents the relationship between a 
young working woman unhappy with her 
marriage and a middle-aged woman whose 
successful husband is leaving on a long busi­
ness trip. Meszaros’ film is in Hungarian with 
English subtitles. General admission is $3 and 
$2.50 for students, members and senior citi­
zens.
A unique story of two drunken women in 
Berlin, Ticket of No Return directed by Ger­
man Ulrike Ottinger, is a funny and poignant 
tale of the relationship between a bag lady and 
a wealthy and beautiful woman who comes to 
Berlin to “drink herself to death.” Ottinger’s 
film will be shown at the Carnegie Museum of 
Art on February 26 at 8 pm and is German with • 
English subtitles. General admission is $3 and 
$2.50 for students, members and senior citi­
zens.
Marta Meszaros will be the visiting 
filmmaker at the Carnegie Museum of Art on 
February 27 at 8 pm. Her autobiographical 
film Diary for my Children will be shown. The 
film is in Hungarian with English subtitles and 
general admission is $3 and $2.50 for students, • 
members and senior citizens.
Carnegie Mellon’s English Department will 
present two films by visiting American 
filmmaker Su Friedrich on March 11. The Ties 
that Bind is the story of an “ordinary woman” 
living in Nazi Germany. Damned If You Don’t 
examines a nun who succumbs to her sexual 
desires. Admission is free.
Christine Choy will be the visiting filmmaker* 
at Pittsburgh Filmmaker’s Oakland Screening 
Room on March 19. Two of her films will be 
shown: Permanent Wave depicts a mall beauty 
salon at Christmas time and Adopted Son: The 
Death of Vincent Chin examines the influence 
of racism in the trial of the murderers of an 
Asian-American. Choy will also host a work­
shop on fundraising for independent films in 
the Oakland Screening Room on March 20 at» 
8 pm.
The Women Behind the Camera series will 
close with films by women throughout March 
and April at Filmmakers at the Fulton and 
lesbian films at Bloomer’s Restaurant on the 
South Side. More details on these films are 
forthcoming as are details concerning the 
concluding symposium on film, feminism and 
politics in April. |
PRACTICE
SHOTOKAK KARATE
AT CMU !
Shotokan Karate is a popular aerobic sport 
among men and women across the country and around the world.
And, for the serious student, 
it is a way to acquire the traits of courage, integrity, and self-control 
while learning powerful fighting techniques.
Take a couple of hours a week to train with us. You will relieve your 
tensions and worrys, and develop superb flexibility and muscle tone.
Do something good for yourself.
Beginner's classes start January 26 through February 6.
Come to Thistle Hall in the gymnasium, and wear comfortable, 
loose-fitting clothes. Classes meet: tuesdays, 7:00-9:00 pm, 
Saturdays 11:30 am-1:30 pm
Shotokan Karate of AmericaA non-profit orgammhon mrn»n Ktrtm ao * America «ne* 1«6
THEÜMttnlMR»
*
WE...
* CREATE OUR OWN PROJECTS IN SUPER-8 
FILM AND 3/4" VIDEO.
* HAVE MUCH OF OUR OWN EQUIPMENT.
* PRODUCE 16mm FILMS.
* ARE SPONSORING A CAMPUS-WIDE 
SCREENWRITING COMPETITION - WINNER 
GETS THEIR SCREENPLAY PERFORMED ON 3/ 
4"VIDEO FOR FREE.
* ARE GEARED TOWARDS BOTH NOVICE 
AND ADVANCED FILMMAKERS.
(^BEGINNERS ARE ALWAYS WELCOME^
* ARE FUNDED BY STUDENT SENATE.
MEETING THIS FRIDAY THE 29th AND EVERY FRIDAY @ PH 126A 4:30 PM

---------------------------------------------------

January 26,1988—The Tartan—Page Dll
0
Announcements
Richard M. Cyert will have open office hours 
for students between 2 pm and 5 pm, in his 
office, 602 Warner Hall on Monday, February 
1, 1988. Students who wish to meet with the 
president should telephone his secretary on 
x2200 to set up an appointment.
Student Ombudsman will have open office 
hours for students to discuss concerns, register 
complaints and help resolve problems. Days 
and times available for appointments are at the 
Skibo Information desk @x2107. Phone 
messages @x5764 (24 hrs a day).
Super Bowl Party at Jewish University Cen­
ter. Sunday, January 31 at 5:30 pm. Free 
dinner served! RSVP by Thursday, January 
28 to join the fun. Also, every Friday night at 
5:30 pm, come and join us for services and 
dinner. Good friends, food, and fun. Reserva­
tions are requested by preceding Wednesday. 
Price for dinner is $3 for members and $3.50 
for non-members. Call 621-8875 for details. 
Three Rooms with a View. Three guest 
curators, David Lewis, Louis Mueller and Ann 
Nathan, were invited to each create a room of 
a house. Their only mandate was to utilize 
works made in a craft medium within the 
context of the space. The Society For Art in 
Crafts, 21st and Smallman Streets, The Strip 
District. Gallery Hours are 10 am - 5 pm, 
Tuesday through Saturday; 1 pm - 4 pm, 
Sunday.
Carnegie Mellon University Art Faculty 
Exhibition. Carnegie Mellon University Art 
Gallery, 407 S. Craig St. Through January 31. 
Exhibition of Paintings by Mary Mallott.
Hewlett Gallery, CFA. Through February 14. 
Three Rivers Arts Festival. Entry forms are 
now available to visual artists interested in 
entering in the 29th annual Three Rivers Arts 
Festival, June 3 - 19, 1988. Visual artists 
working with two dimensional art, sculpture, 
crafts, photography, film, video and in the 
artists’ market are invited to enter. This year 
the entry deadline is February 6, 1988.
Poets are invited to submit their works to be 
considered for a series of readings in the 1988 
Literature Festival. All entries should be 
mailed to: Three Rivers Arts Festival, 207 
Sweetbriar St., Pittsburgh, PA 15211, Atten­
tion: Poetry Chairperson. Entries may also be 
hand delivered to the Festival Office located 
on Mount Washington.
Hunt Library has a Telephone Answering 
Machine for questions relating to the Univer­
sity Libraries’ hours. The extension is 5888. 
Roman Catholic Oratory. Celebrate mass 
on campus at 7 pm, Saturday night and 10:30 
am, Sunday morning, in the GSIA Audito­
rium. Daily Mass is celebrated at 12:30 pm, 
Monday through Friday, in CM’s Chapel 
(Skibo Rm. 39). For more information call 
681-3181.
Is There Anyone Else Like Me On Campus?
If you are experiencing attractions toward
G$f7 hdt l7eMh fei, 
xt et 7raMc l7eIf 
yf7i7 ; MiT7, sq fei, 
8dM ICd),tnM i7eIf 
$f7 hMeih 
;t cCdi 7c7hG
’ SMdeiM F,erhCt
$i77’
$fetmho ; MfTtmuuu
-Q-
s)CU7ih b7ile) ; g7ei ,T, Cgg7t, 
Gy7)) ; UCt,7i
,C cCd f7ei r7 Uf7t cCd h)77añ
; fCeih7)c Iic 
y7)) ; UCt,7i
,C cCd h77 r7 Uf7t cCd aehhñ
; fe)g ,T7
2)7eh7 m77a r7 Tt rTt, 
2)7eh7 m77a r7 Tt rTt,
’ ­CiiThh7c
Ft,i7e’
;n, i7e))c )Cb7 MC GMe)m MC cCd 
et, a7ifeah l7ICr7 giT7t,h UTMf 
cCduG 2)7eh7 .Tb7 r7 Mf7 IfetI7 
MCu
sABB wxVwBA$ H_11 F­ NF;5q 
5ThM7t MC Mf7 GVeMTCte) Ft-
Mf7rG eh cCdnb7 t7b7i f7ei, TM 
l7gCi7W “et, fCa7gd))c t7b7i UT)) 
e.eTt”u
A7et’
8T. d.erChTh UTMf e)) Mf7 
a7Ca)7 et, F)l7iM Nunh )TMM)7 
ld,,cnh )TMM)7 ld,,cnh )TMM)7 ld,,c’ 
hCCtu
8eIT Nu
$C rc gebCiTM7 a7ihCt’
; )Cb7 cCd uuu MC Mf7 hdt et, 
leImu y7n)) l7 MC.7Mf7i hCCtu 
yTMf rdIf )Cb7o
’ qCdi gebCiTM7 a7ihCt
GFt, hf7nh hC ai7MMc MfeM cCdni7 
)ChM Tt Mf7 hMeihG
’ 8idI7 SaiTt.hM77t
A’
(eaac FttTb7iheicW ; )Cb7
cCdu
’$
2S_ yfeM IC)Ci ei7 cCd U7eiTt.ñ 
ACl’
qCdi iCCr feh l77t ai7aei7, 
et, U7 ei7 7e.7i)c eUeTMTt. cCdi 
eiiTbe)u
’ $f7 SMegg k ­.rMu Cg (7))
qCdni7 tCM e i7e) UCret dtMT) 
cCdnb7 adM et SFB liCMf7i Tt fTh 
a)eI7u
Ft.7)’
$fetmh gCi Mf7 U77m7t,W
’ wdMT7
VS8’
VTI7 rC)7o lel7W
’ wfiTh
yf7i7 ,C cCd feT) giCrñ uuu (eT) 
giCro feT) giCrW uuu yf7t Mf7 feT) 
ICr7h ,CUto Uf7i7 ei7 cCdWñ
;)Z7’
(CU UT)) U7 hdibTb7 fThMCic 
h7IMTCtñ
’­TIfe7)
members of the same sex, the answer is yes. 
Join sympathetic peers for informal discus­
sions of issues that are important to you. For 
details, contact the CMU Gay and Lesbian 
Alliance via campus mail c/o Skibo Informa­
tion Desk or via computer mail to ga0y@tb. 
All responses are confidential.
Buhl Science Center:
Laserium. 8 pm and 9:15 pm, Thursday 
through Sunday; and 3 pm, Saturday. For 
current concerts call 321-5554.
The Great Miniature Railroad and Village. 
Through February 28. 2 pm, Monday through 
Wednesday; 2 pm, 5 pm, 7 pm, Thursday and 
Friday; 11 am, 2 pm, 3 pm, 4 pm, 5 pm, 7 pm, 
Saturday; and 1:15 pm, 2 pm, 4 pm, 5 pm, 7 
pm, Sunday.
Legends in the Sky. Through March 22. 2 
pm, Monday through Wednesday; 2 pm, 5 pm, 
7 pm, Thursday and Friday; 11 am, 2 pm, 3 pm, 
4 pm, 5 pm, 7 pm, Saturday; and 1:15 pm, 2 
pm, 4 pm, 5 pm, 7 pm, Sunday.
Sounds Sensational. Permanent exhibit at 1 
pm - 5 pm, Monday through Wednesday; 1 pm 
- 9:30 pm, Thursday and Friday; 10 am - 9:30 
pm, Saturday; and noon - 9:30 pm, Sunday.
The Right Moves. Permanent exhibit at 1 
pm - 5 pm, Monday through Wednesday; 1 pm
- 9:30 pm, Thursday and Friday; 10 am - 9:30 
pm, Saturday; and noon - 9:30 pm, Sunday.
Batter Up. Permanent exhibit at 1 pm - 5 
pm, Monday through Wednesday; 1 pm - 9:30 
pm, Thursday and Friday; 10 am - 9:30 pm, 
Saturday; and noon - 9:30 pm, Sunday.
Bio Corner. Permanent exhibit at 1 pm - 5 
pm, Monday through Wednesday; 1 pm - 9:30 
pm, Thursday and Friday; 10 am - 9:30 pm, 
Saturday; and noon - 9:30 pm, Sunday.
Image Imagination. Permanent exhibit at 1 
pm - 5 pm, Monday through Wednesday; 1 pm
- 9:30 pm, Thursday and Friday; 10 am - 9:30 
pm, Saturday; and noon - 9:30 pm, Sunday.
Foucault Pendulum. Permanent exhibit at 1 
pm - 5 pm, Monday through Wednesday; 1 pm
- 9:30 pm, Thursday and Friday; 10 am - 9:30 
pm, Saturday; and noon - 9:30 pm, Sunday.
Observatory. Friday evenings, weather 
permitting.
The Brave Little Tailor. Can a little tailor 
defeat two giants? It seems dangerous. It 
seems impossible. But this little tailor has wits 
as sharp as his scissors and a bag full of tricks. 
Aurand Harris’ comic adaptation of the popu­
lar fairy tale is sure to delight the whole family. 
11 am and 2:30 pm, Saturdays; 2:30 pm, 
Sundays; through March 20.
MUSICIAN
PERFORMTECHNICIANS
Interviews for technical positions and Berenstain Bears will begin when 
registration opens. Auditions for singers, musicians and emcees will begin 
as soon as these interviews are completed.
ANN ARBOR. MICHIGAN 
Monday. Jan 11
University of Michigan 
Michigan Union Anderson Room 
Registration 2 30 5 30 pm
MT PLEASANT. MICHIGAN 
Tuesday. Jan. 12
Central Michigan University 
The Bovee University Center 
Registration 3 30 6 30 pm
EAST LANSING MICHIGAN 
Wednesday. Jan 13
Michigan State University 
MSU Union Ballroom 
Registration 2 30 5 30 pn
KALAMAZOO. MICHIGAN 
Thursday. Jan 14 
Western Michigan Urwersitv 
Dalton Center Sihoo* o* 
iPark at Miller Auditor••*»» 
Registration 2 30 5 30 p"
COLUMBUS. OHIO 
Monday. Jan 18
Ohio State University 
School of cont Huqfn-s iue 
degistration 2 30 5 30 pn
DAYTON OHIO 
Tuesday. Jan 19 
Ramada Inr North 
4079 Lrtlte Vor*
Registration 2 30 S.*
MUNCIE. INDIANA 
Wednesday. Jan. 20
Ball State University 
Burris School
Registration 2 30 5 30 pm
BLOOMINGTON. INDIANA 
Thursday. Jan 21
Indiana University
Indiana Memorial Union Solarium
Registration 2 30 4 30 pm
KENT OHIO:
Monday. Jan 25
Kent State University 
Student Center Third Fkxx 
Registration 2 30 5 30 pm
PITTSBURGH. PENNSYLVANIA 
Tuesday. Jan 26
University Inn
Forties at MiKee Pi.He
Registration 3 30 6 30 pm
BOWLING GREEN OHIO 
Thursday. Jan 26
Bowling Green State Universit\ 
Universitv Union Oho Suite 
Registration 11 30 am 3 pm
SANDUSKY OHIO 
Fnday. Jan 29
Cedar Pont
Parh Attractions Otfne 
Rehear s.»' Studos 
Registration 10 jni 4 pm
For further information ».ontart £ ^ 5006
Live Show Auditions Sandusky. Ohio 44870 CETORPOMT 419-6260030 Ext 2388
I

---------------------------------------------------

Page D12—The Tartan—January 26,1988
Events26
­CbT7h
The Return of Martin Guerre, starring 
Gerard Depardieu and Nathalie Baye. A man 
walks out on his wife, disappears for several 
years, and then returns. The man who returns 
seems to know everyone. Is he an imposter or 
her husband? Pittsburgh Playhouse at 7:30 pm 
and 9:30 pm. Admission $2.95.
57IMdi7h
Department of Chemical Engineering 
Seminar. Professor Richard Pollard, Univer­
sity of Houston, speaks on “The Behavior of 
Chemical Vapor Deposition Reactors” at 11 
am in DH 1112. Coffee and pastries are served 
at 10:45 am in Conference Room 1102.
Sa7ITe) Bb7tMh
French Table. The Modem Languages De­
partment sponsors a French Language table at 
11:30 am in the Morewood dining hall. 
Alpha Phi Omega, the National Service Fra­
ternity, meets every week at 8 pm in Breed 
Hall, MM 103. All are welcome.
SaCiMh
Women’s Basketball. Away game against 
Bethany College at 7 pm.27 Wednesday
­CbT7h
Amadeus, starring F. Murray Abraham and 
Tom Hulce. Sensational adaptation of Peter 
Shaffer’s play about a composer whose jeal­
ousy helps to destroy Mozart. Pittsburgh 
Playhouse at 7:30 pm. Admission $2.95.
Sa7ITe) Bb7tMh
Fine Arts Career Information Table. Stop 
by the CFA Lobby outside of the Dean’s 
Office from 10 am - 4 pm to explore the Career 
Services and Placement Resources which can 
help you plan your career in the arts. Sample 
resources include such books as Supporting 
Yourself as an Artist, National Directory of 
Arts Internships and Graphic Design Career 
Guide.
Educational Action on Latin America
group meeting. SkiboRm. 112 at 7 pm. All are 
welcome. For more information call Peter at 
x7651.
Learn to Juggle! The Pittsburgh Juggling 
Club meets every Wednesday and Saturday at 
4:30 in Greymatter. Everyone invited. 
Spanish Table. The Modem Language De­
partment sponsors a Spanish Language table 
at 11:30 am in the Morewood dining hall.
SaCiMh
Men’s Basketball. Home game against Be­
thany College at 8 pm.28 Thursday
v_______________________________________
­CbT7h
The 20th International Tournee of Anima­
tion. A splendid collection of cartoons, some
of which have won international awards. The 
program features 18 short films representing 9 
countries and includes everything from stan­
dard animation to clay animation to the latest 
computer graphics. Pittsburgh Playhouse at 
7:30 pm and 9:30 pm. Admission $2.95.
The Jazz Singer, sponsored by AB Films. DH 
2210 at 6 pm, 8 pm, and 10 pm. Admission $ 1.
57IMdi7h
Department of Psychology Colloquium.
Dr. Lance Rips, University of Chicago, speaks 
on “The Psychology of Proof’ at 4 pm in the 
Adamson Wing, BH. Coffee will be served 
before each lecture in the Psychology Lounge, 
BH.
Sa7ITe) Bb7tMh
The Theolog is In. From 11 am to 3 pm in 
Grey Matter, members of CM’s Campus 
Ministry Council are available for conversa­
tion on matters of theology, ethics or “any­
thing else you’ve always wanted to know 
about religion but were afraid to ask.” Please 
stop by.
29 Friday
­CbT7h
The 20th International Tournee of Anima­
tion. A splendid collection of cartoons, some 
of which have won international awards. The 
program features 18 short films representing 9 
countries and includes everything from stan­
dard animation to clay animation to the latest 
computer graphics. Pittsburgh Playhouse at 
7:30 pm and 9:30 pm. Admission $2.95. 
Practice of Love. This film “is and anti­
romance in which the heroine, oscillating 
between two relationships, gradually discov­
ers that both are impossible, not because the 
subjective processes of 'love’ are defective 
but because...the male world and its power 
structures cancel the possibility of love be­
yond the matter of sexuality, that is, the objec­
tification of love.” Carnegie Museum of Art 
Film at 8 pm. Admission $3.
Witches of Eastwick, sponsored by AB 
Films. DH 2210 at 6 pm, 8 pm, 10 pm and 
midnight. Admission $1.
­CbT7h
The 20th International Tournee of Anima­
tion. A splendid collection of cartoons, some 
of which have won international awards. The 
program features 18 short films representing 9 
countries and includes everything from stan­
dard animation to clay animation to the latest 
computer graphics. Pittsburgh Playhouse at 
7:30 pm and 9:30 pm. Admission $2.95. 
Riddance. “Oh what a tangled web we 
weave...” This is the story of a young textile 
worker from a broken home who is ashamed to 
admit her humble background to a new 
suitor’s family. Carnegie Museum of Art Film 
at 8 pm. Admission $3.
No Way Out, sponsored by SDC Films. DH 
2210 at 6 pm, 8 pm, 10 pm and midnight. 
Admission $1.
Sa7ITe) Bb7tMh
Learn to Juggle! The Pittsburgh Juggling 
Club meets every Wednesday and Saturday at 
4:30 in Greymatter. Everyone invited.
SaCiMh
Men’s & Women’s Swimming. Away meet
against John Carroll University at 1 pm. 
Women’s Basketball. Away game against 
Grove City College at 1:30 pm.
Men’s Basketball. Away game against 
Grove City College at 3:30 pm.
film “THX-1138-4eb.
1 Monday
31 Sunday%/ JL *
­CbT7h
The 20th International Tournee of Anima­
tion. A splendid collection of cartoons, some 
of which have won international awards. The 
program features 18 short films representing 9 
countries and includes everything from stan­
dard animation to clay animation to the latest 
computer graphics. Pittsburgh Playhouse at 
7:30 pm and 9:30 pm. Admission $2.95. 
Night of the Living Dead, sponsored by AB 
Films. DH at 6 pm, 8 pm, 10 pm and midnight.
Sa7ITe) Bb7tMh
United Campus Ministry Student Open 
House. Bellefield Towers, 100 N. Bellefield at 
6:30 pm. Snacks, punch and conversation will 
be followed by a showing of the George Lucas
­CbT7h
The 20th International Tournee of Anima­
tion. A splendid collection of cartoons, some 
of which have won international awards. The 
program features 18 short films representing 9 
countries and includes everything from stan­
dard animation to clay animation to the latest 
computer graphics. Pittsburgh Playhouse at 
7:30 pm and 9:30 pm. Admission $2.95.
Sa7ITe) Bb7tMh
Japanese Table. The Modem Language 
Department sponsors a Japanese Language 
Table at 11:30 am in the Morewood dining 
hall.
SaCiMh
Women’s Basketball. Home game against 
Mercyhurst College at 6 pm.
87 e aeiM Cgh7t, hdlrThhTCth MC_llill
Vox Populi
-Vex-Pariuli!
Classifieds
.... Jobs/Wanted
Typists: Hundreds weekly at home! Write: 
P.O. Box 17, Clark, NJ 07066.
Wanted: Students: Earn extra money 
today, for the holidays and Spring Break 
1988. No experience necessary, opportu­
nity to be your own boss, work your own 
hours, earn unlimited income, prizes and 
trips. Call today, Florida Sands Promotions 
(904) 257-2467
iHousing
For Rent. Large, comfortable, 1-Bedroom 
Apartment, full bath, fully equipped 
kitchen, wall-to-wall carpeting, laundry 
facilities. 371-6666
Sublet: Entire 3rd floor of home for two 
persons near Schenley Park. 5 minute drive 
to campus. On busline. Furnished. Free 
laundry facilities. Quiet, safe street. $ 130 p/ 
person includes everything. 422-3702 (24 
hours)
Apartment Rental: Shadyside. 1-Bed­
room, wall-to-wall, security system, newly 
redecorated. 621-2873
Services
Research Papers: 15,278 available! Cata­
log $2. Research, 11322 Idaho, #206XT, 
Los Angeles 90025. Toll free (800) 351- 
0222, Ext. 33. Visa/MC or COD
ELECTRONIC PUBLISHING 
or WORD PROCESSING
“The Medium is the Message” —
So why just type your documents when 
they can look printed and ready to publish
with Electronic Publishing? It’ll cost more, 
but it’s worth it! Your work will command 
the attention it deserves.
Select from many typefaces. We can even 
scan your typed text or read your 
computers text and set it into type, without 
the need for retyping. We’re professionals 
with heavy duty hardware & software capa­
bilities for the most sophisticated docu­
ments including header, footers, footnotes, 
index, table of contents, pictures and line 
art — all to produce any kind of document, 
no matter how simple or complex.
Call Tedd Powell at:
SUNNEYLEDGE GRAPHICS 
Fifth & Wilkins Aves. 
Pittsburgh, PA 15232 (412) 687-3445
Lust in ’88”? Wanderlust that is! You
can see the U.S., Europe or Asia this sum­
mer using safe, inexpensive International 
Youth Hostels. Nearly 300 in the U.S. with 
5,000 world-wide. For membership rate 
information write: Hostels c/o Pittsburgh 
AYH, 6300 Fifth Avenue, Pittsburgh PA 
15232, or call 362-8181, leave message.
Spring Break__Nassau/Paradise Island
from $279.00
Package includes: roundtrip air, transfers, 7 
nights hotel, beach parties, free lunch, 
cruise, free admission to nightclubs, taxes 
and more!!
Cancún packages also available!
Organize a small group, earn a free trip! 
Call American Travel Services 1 (800) 
231-0113 or (203)967-3330.
For Sale
Pontiac 88 Fiero for sale, brand new. 4 cyl, 
AM-FM stereo, FI, full warrantee. White 
ext, Grey int only $7400 or b/o. Call 683- 
3563
