TARTAN
FOUONATRAT
SERVING UMC 
SINCE TUESDAY
April 1, 1978________Volume II________Issue 9 Carnegie-Mellon University Pittsburgh, Pa.
CREATIVE TALKING INTRODUCED
In the tradition of the new ‘Core 
Curriculum’, H&SS dean John Crecine 
today announced a new major which will 
be available starting with the graduating 
class of 1981. The new subdepartment 
will be under the supervision of the Eng­
lish Faculty, and listed in the catalogue as 
“Creative Talking.” A degree in creative 
talking will only be available in the form of 
a B.S. There will be three creative talking 
courses required to achieve full B.S. credit, 
the first of which will be one of the re­
quirements of the new core. “I feel that 
with the school and the world in the shape 
that it is in now, and the direction that it is 
heading in, anyone who wishes to be a suc­
cess must be fairly well versed at the art of 
creative talking,” claimed the dean. “How 
do you think I got my job?” he concluded.
Here are the descriptions for the new 
courses:
76-111 Introduction to Creative Talking
9 units
This course serves as a basis for further 
study in the art of creative talking and also 
as a prerequisite for all advanced creative 
talking courses. The course will deal with 
elementary, yet real, life situations in
This course picks up where 76-111 
leaves off, and deals with more realistic and 
complicated situations. Assignments in­
clude talking your way out of a speeding 
ticket; talking your way into graduate 
school; and talking your way into having 
your parents get you a Mazarati. The final 
involves being put on probation, and not 
only talking your way out of it, but also 
talking your way into getting a 4.0.
76-211 Intermediate creative talking
10 units
which creative talking is essential. Assign­
ments include talking your way out of a 
parking ticket; talking your way out of 
being grounded; talking your way out of 
cleaning your room; and talking your way 
out of eating spinach. The final will in­
volve receiving an F for the course, and 
talking your way out of it.
76-311 Advanced creative talking
15 units
C-MUNITED NATIONS AGAIN
Warner Hall announced today the im­
pending arrivals of yet two more groups of 
foreign exchange students at CMU. The 
students, all of whom have studied several 
semesters of correspondence-course English 
and who will be polishing their skills in the 
school’s ESL program, reportedly will be 
qualified to teach at the end of their 
studies. They will, however, primarily 
study in course areas most relevant to their 
particular techno-socio-economic develop­
ment of their respective homelands.
The first group of visitors hail from P.C. 
Tech, Panama City, Panama. The six stu­
dents will be studying Civil Engineering in 
hopes of rectifying current Panama Canal 
troubles by constructing one of their own 
as soon as they acquire the necessary tech­
nology to do so. As a final project they will 
be required to excavate a canal which simu­
lates the one already in existence and 
which would link the tennis courts and the 
hollow beneath Doherty Hall by running
across the cut.
The second group, to be majoring in 
Public Speaking and Interpersonal Re­
lating through SUPA, comes from the 
University of Uganda. The 250 students in 
this group are creating something of a pro­
blem, however, according to the Housing 
Office.
“You see, there is traditionally a lot of 
negative feedback to the incoming groups 
at this school, but this is unique. When we 
decided that the only feasable space for the 
half-dozen Panamanians was in E-tower, 
the response was particularly encouraging, 
especially when the residents learned that 
all six incoming engineers are females 
studying under their country’s Equal 
Rights in Education program. In fact, we 
had no trouble at all placing the girls, all of 
whom are reportedly pleasant and out­
doors-loving, with roommates. In fact, 
several of the frats even offered to help put 
them up for the semester.
Unfortunately, there has been a lot less 
enthusiasm about accepting a Ugandan 
roommate, particularly when the danger 
that he may eat you for breakfast or use 
your spleen for a soccer ball is always 
present. This is the rub.”
In an effort to alleviate this problem, 
the University had instituted a program of 
special “hosts” who will be responsible for 
1) Meeting the incoming students on 
arrival; 2) Assisting them in setting up 
housekeeping, food contracts, bank ac­
counts, et cetera; 3) Introducing them to 
the “American way of life’ ; and 4) mak­
ing sure that they’re never let out of sight 
in any place that there are sharp objects 
within reach.
“If the students of CMU just keep an 
open mind, an open heart, and, as always, 
an open pocket, we’ll get through this just 
fine,” reiterates Dr. Cyert. “Really!” 
After all, would Warner Hall lie to the 
student body?
This course is recommended only for 
creative talking majors, although it is open 
to the entire student body. This course 
deals with extreme situations involving 
creative talking. The student's expertise 
in the subject is essential for a good grade. 
Assignments include talking your way out 
of a drug bust; talking your way out of a 
WW2 German concentration camp; and 
talking your way into getting a key to 
Fort Knox. The final involves talking your 
way out of being shot by a Cuban firing 
squad, and receiving a personal letter of 
apology from Fidel himself.
(prerq. 76-211)
Crecine proudly invited the deans of the 
other colleges to urge their students to 
take one or more of the creative talking 
courses, and in fact hopes that they would 
make it mandatory. He also made a pitch 
to H&SS students to change their major 
to Creative Talking, because as he said. 
“This new program will give you the best 
B.S. you can find anywhere!”
Dr. Cyert—"You'd better believe we're going to be nice to them!"
insideCMU Expansion Planned
The Carnegie-Mellon Planning Board 
announced today that it has completely re­
vamped its expansion plan for the upcom­
ing ten years. The new expansion plan will 
consist of buying Schenley Park and the 
Conservatory adjacent to it.
“We estimate that the Conservatory
ought to house 200 undergrads, or so,” 
said Housing Director Gerry Dalton. “And 
with the large number of exchange stu 
dents coming in from tropical countries, 
the climate in the ( •• vi\.j:ory should 
make them feel right at home.”
In order to finance this move, which in-
These toll booth gates are soon to be a familiar sight across ’he Cut.
volves an undisclosed sum ot money, cer­
tain restrictions will be placed on the stu­
dent body. Parking motors will be installed 
on all bike racks in the vicinity, including 
those located just outside of Baker Hall. 
There will also be a twenty-five cent charge 
for anyone wishing to use the Panther Hol­
low Bridge or Flagstaff Hill. Hours for 
Flagstaff will be from 1 1:00 AM to l I ' 
PM from April 1-May I 5, and thisy;ea will 
be closed at all other times There will be a 
Security guard on duty to sign all students 
into and out ot tie area.
In order to further finance the purchase 
of Schenley Park and to make the neces­
sary improvements on the area, a fee will 
also be added to walk across the Cut. 
Work-study students will be posted at 
either end of the campus to collect the toll, 
which will be “nominal". The Planning 
Board feels the Student Body wiH be in 
complete sympathy with the increasing 
rates. “After all. compared to everything 
else they're paying, »his is peanuts.” added 
one Board member.
Transactions ior the purchase of the 
Park will be completed by April 4, and 
work on ihe suggested additions will begin 
immcdiaielv.
news...
Housing offers some unique 
alternatives
entertainment
Scotch n' Soda to present 
“Samurai Fencer”
sports...
Buggy Fever sweeps the campus
!
Scotch n' Soda

---------------------------------------------------

NATRAT
GIVING C-MU THE BIRD
Carnegie-Mellon University has been one of America's 
finest institutes of higher education for the past half cen­
tury. Since the time of its founding in 19/2 the names 
Carnegie Tech and Carnegie-Mellon University have been 
respected and admired by all of those who have heard of the 
school, and been awed by its reputation. CMU has a fine 
past record of which we should be proud, but even in the 
best and most traditional institutions, changes must occur 
when they are needed. This is the case at our school today.
The tradition started by Andrew Carnegie upon founding 
this university have been observed for many years. Our 
student union is named after his castle, and our cafeteria, 
paper and mascot are also named in the Andrew Carnegie 
tradition. This is where we must begin to make our changes 
(after all, he really intended Baker Hall to be a factory 
anyway!).
The first thing which must be changed, not only to ad­
vance the school academically, but most of all to help it 
in the area of morale, is to change our school mascot. Let 
us face the facts! Who really wants to go to a football game 
to cheer on a bunch of guys hwo are claiming to be some 
outlandish fabric pattern? It would be different if plaid was 
in style, but it is certainly out of vogue in today’s world. 
Especially tartan! It is for this reason that this paper whole­
heartedly advocates the changing of our mascot from the 
Tartan, to the Prehistoric Central Australian Pterodactyl.
Choosing the Prehistoric Central Australian Pterodactyl 
as our new mascot will give each and every student a new 
sense of identity. Just think of the possibilities! When asked 
what you are, instead of replying “I’m a CMU Tartan"and 
consequently being embarrassed into seclusion, one will be 
able to respond “I’m a Techie Pterodactyl, and I’m proud, ” 
The possibilities go on and on. Let us take for example, 
what could happen at a football game with our new mascot.
Just as Yale brings their live bulldog to every game, we 
would have to bring our PterodactylQ We could then tie ban­
ners to his tail, claiming the superiority of our team. For a 
half-time show, he could destroy the opposing mascot. He 
could eat the Bethany Bison, drop the Oberlin Yeoman in 
the Monongahela, and do combat with the Pitt Panther. Our 
cheerleaders could wear Pterodactyl suits, and do aerial 
cheers. And we would not have to worry about any of our 
opponents bringing in anti-CMU signs, because people at 
schools such as California and others in our league wouldn't 
be able to spell Pterodactyl, let alone be able to fit Prehis­
toric Central Australian Pterodactyl on a banner,.
The first thing which must be done is to give a grant to 
the Biology Department to cook us up a Prehistoric Central 
Australian Pterodactyl. This should be only a minor detail, 
The important thing is to gain student support. A major 
publicity campaign is needed. Bumperstickers, posters, 
speeches, and of course personal appearances by our new 
Pterodactyl will serve to aid the cause.
Join in with your fellow studentst It is only a matter of 
time before we will succeed, but we need your help. Paint 
the fence, paint the halls, and do Pterodactyl yells in the 
middle ot your classes. Let them know that we mean 
business! Get a pair of Pterodactyl wings and fly through 
the cut shouting “Let CMU go to the birds." Act now be­
fore it’s too late, or we will be destined to a lifetime of ugly 
plaid! Support the “Students in Favor of Changing the 
Mascot from the Tartan to the Prehistoric Central Ausnu- 
Han Pterodactyl Society.’’ Any aid you may give will be 
greatly appreciated, and surely never regretted.
Thank you 
Sloppy Joe Shlabotnikwitz 
Person Who Wrote This Editorial .
This entire edition of the Tartan is devoted to the humor­
ous side of Carnegie-Mellon. The staff of Folio asks that you 
take every cut with a smile, and every misrepresentation and 
falsehood with a laugh. Don’t take it seriously. Nothing in 
the entire eight pages is real except for this one unnoticeab- 
!e paragraph. The advertisements and classified are all pure 
fantasy. He hope we didn’t insult or offend anvone. Happy 
April Fool’s Day.
Letters
Editor:
As president of the newest 
and most powerful student organi­
zation. I would like to protest the 
lack of coverage you are planning 
to give us in the future issues. As 
president of the CMU Organiza­
tion of the Omnipotent Students, 
I have seen that you have no in­
tentions of writing about us in 
this issue, nor do you have any 
plans about including the story of 
our group in future issues. 1 know 
that you have had a busy week, 
and have a lot of articles for this 
issue, yet I do hope that in the 
future you will find that space to 
introduce our group to the cam­
pus community.
Thank you, 
Respectfully submitted, 
Ina Everything 
President of CMU Organization 
of Omnipotent Students 
P.S. If you do not adhere to our 
wishes we will reveal all informa­
tion dealing widi the experience 
you had with your sister in the 
bathtub. >
Editor:
Night people are fast becoming 
the newest oppressed minority. As 
old prejudices slowly fade away, 
new prejudices take their place 
and this one is taking the fore­
front as one of society’s major 
vices. Most Day People (DP) com­
plain bitterly in self righteous 
anger (“After all, WE are the peo­
ple.”) about the excesses of the 
(minority) Night People (NP). 
Too much noise and banging 
around, bad moral character, ad 
nauseam. What they don’t real­
ize is what it’s like on the other 
side of the fence. There are more 
DPs than NPs so naturally the 
DPs produce even more noise and 
banging around than the NPs. The 
poor NP, jarred from his sleep by 
their incessant rattling and vocal­
izations must also contend with 
the uncomfortable experience of 
finding that big, bright, yellow 
evil eye in the sky staring him 
straight in the face! And as for the 
slurs on moral character, how 
many times has it been said that
an NP is either a junkie, a com­
mie, a prostitute, or a computer 
scientist?
But, unfortunately, this is only 
the beginning. Each day (rather, 
night) of his life the NP must con­
tend with scores of indignities. The 
stores are closed, the banks are 
closed, the laundry is closed the 
restaurants are closed. And when­
ever a crisis situation occurs and 
sacrifices must be made, guess 
who gets screwed first? The NP, 
of course. This is starkly apparent 
in our latest crisis, the coal short­
age. Guess which hours were the 
first to be cut from (1) gym 
hours, (2) Tartan Grill hours, (3) 
recommended club meeting hours, 
(4). . . The night hours, of course.
What is to be done to reverse 
this trend? All oppressed minori­
ties have had to cope with this in 
the past. The solutions range from 
moving to a different neighbor­
hood to pulling a coup and 
becoming the oppressing minori­
ty. It will be more fun if it turns 
out to be the latter.
TARTAN FOLD
Volume IIApril 1, 1978Issue 9
Editor in-Chief 
Assistant Editor 
Art Director 
Managing Editor 
Managerial Assistant: 
Miscellaneous Editors
K.A. Vaksich 
Fred LaPointe 
Scott Pollack 
Saul Carliner 
Mory Brenner 
Carolyn Welty 
Otto
Stuart Seidman 
Bob Zimmerman 
Alan Kass 
Kevin Q. Brown 
Andy Epstein and 
A cast of thousands
Copyright 1978 by the Carnegie-Mellon University TARTAN. The Editorial Board reserves the right to edit or 
withhold from publication any copy it deems unfit for publication. Eunded in part by the Student Govern 
"-•ent ot Carnegie Mellon University, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania 15213. Fditorial Offices Skibo 50; (412) 578- 
2111 or 2112. Business Offices: Skibo 52; (412) 578—2111
ALL RIGHTS RESERVED

---------------------------------------------------

ANNOUNCEMENTS
President Richard M Cyert is holding open
office hours for students during the month 
of April. He will be available on an appoint­
ment basis from 3 to 4 o'clock., and on a 
first-come, first-served basis from 4 to 5. 
This is in response to Dean Crecine's claim 
that he has more students attending his 
open office than President Cyert, who 
plans to put an end to that rumor once and 
for all. Refreshments will be served.
The Psychology Department is running an
experiment to test the incidence of ESP in 
college students. In an attempt to keep all 
findings factual, the time and date have not 
been announced, as all the subjects who 
really do have ESP knowwhen it isanyway.
The Drama Department will present "Hair"
in the Kresge Theatre on April 15-17. Tick­
ets may be obtained by presenting a CMU 
ID at the Information Desk prior to the 
performances, which will be held at 8:30 
PM. Front-row seats are limited, so get 
your tickets early.
Carl—Come home. I didn't mean it.
You can even restring your hammock 
over the bunsen burners. Love, the
Chemistry Juniors.
Shame on you! What are you doing reading
someone else's personal ad? You should 
be ashamed of yourself!
Due to the overwhelming success of Black
Week, persons interested in organizing 
weeks to celebrate other colors are request­
ed to leave their name with the Design 
Department. Puce and lavender are the 
front-running choices for Color Weeks 
so far. Tartan plaid is a distant second.
The UFO Watermelon Bash will be held as
scheduled on Friday, September 8, on the 
Fraternity Quad. The event begins at 8:00 
p.m. and the freshman community is invi­
ted to attend.
The GDI Watermelon Bash will be held on
Friday, September 8, on the Hamerschlag 
Cut. The event begins at 8:00 p.m. and the 
campus community is invited to attend 
except for you-know-whats.
The John Birch Society will meet on the
right side of the Cut on Monday, April
10 to discuss the topic: "Does Dorm­
itory Living Encourage Communism?” 
All patriotic American students are urged 
to attend.
I didn't vote for Tomazos and now I'm
being ostracized by large numbers of the 
Student Body. What is this world coming 
to? Calvin Case.
Miss Use Koch, beloved huminitarian and
teller of children's stories, will speak in 
the Wherett Romm next Thursday at 
12:30. Her topic will be ''Duck Eggs, 
Their Characteristics and Social Impli­
cations.'' Refreshments will be served after 
the talk, at which time Miss Koch will 
display her collection of unusual lamp­
shades. All students, deans, and pro­
vosts are invited to attend.
Live dirt cheap, yet extremely close to
campus! I need one rommate to help me 
build an apartment by this fall. Work 
begins this Saturday at midnight so, if 
interested, meet me then on the cut and 
bring a shovel.
More Word Games
by Leslie King
In response to allegations by students 
against the use of foreign speaking teach­
ers, the foreign speaking teachers have 
waged their own campaign against native- 
born students.
According to Ispek Ana Therlanguage. a 
GS1A grad student teaching two sections 
each of Cost Accounting, Organizational 
Behavior 1 and 11, Math for Management 
Science II, and Production I, students con­
stantly bother him to repeat things, com­
plain that they don’t understand what he 
says, and make fun of his accent. “1 don't 
make fun of their accents,” he added.
Therlanguage has petitioned the ad­
ministration to require that each student 
have one semester’s training in speaking 
English the way he does. “Then, they
wouldn't have a problem, and we’d all 
be speaking the language the right way.” 
he reasoned.
Responses to a recent survey by the 
student government show there is a defi-
nite need for an English competency re­
quirement for all Carnegie-Mellon faculty. 
Forty of forty-one students polled indi­
cated that they had encountered diffi­
culties in courses where the instructor had 
a limited English vocabulary. Seventeen of 
the students polled said they had at one 
time withdrawn from a class because of the 
instructor’s inability to convey subject 
matter competently in English, or because 
they became bored with the game of 
Charades often used to convey class mater­
ial. In the words of one student, ”1 didn’t 
know if he was talking about digging up 
dead fish in a parking lot or explaining 
moment-generating functions.”
“Professors may be excellent in their 
field but they have to be understood,” 
said Student Government member Mark 
Meyer, “I mean, after all, that’s what we’re 
paying them for.”
The faculty differed Apri tins survey, as 
spokesman for the faculty Mr. Harvey Lee 
/emarked. “Unga bunga maggajunckiere!”
I'm fi cMh'SàtsK/ rto-t 
fiLC'fYiNUS S Till
&er rut “K'AfRAr" 
TOO ¦
AB Coffeehouse presents the Ringers, a
tuba and harp duet on Sat. April 8 at 
9:30 PM in the Whatsit Room, Skibo. Re­
freshments will be served during Greg 
Ringer's unique tuba solo The Bagel Song. 
During this solo performance anyone who 
wants a bagel should raise his or her hand 
and Greg's brother Sammy will place a 
bagel in the tuba while Greg aims it in the 
right direction.
The Forbes Street Gallery opens a new
show this Wednesday featuring advanced 
pothole work by Johnny Pot and Sarah 
Hole. It is anticipated that this exhibit will 
be around for quite some time as the 
Forbes Street Gallery is not scheduled to 
be repaved anytime in the foreseeable 
future.
The Nerd Club will hold its weekly meeting
starting 7:00 PM this Friday in Room 7500 
Science Hall. This week sections from 
Schift's Intermediate Quantum Mechanics 
will be studied. All students are welcome, 
especially anyone with solutions for prob­
lems 5.2.3, 5.7.8, or 6.1.7.
Light hauling: Will haul 60 watt, 100 watt,
200 watt bulbs. You name it.
Ripoff Opportunity! Limited offer. Must
hurry. Send $10.00 to PO Box 12574 for 
more information.
Join the Drug of the Month Club. Get
acquainted with the classics: heroin, LSD, 
STP, cocaine, and much, much more. 
Special this month only-buy five of your 
favorite drugs for only the price of four!
CHARITY week begins next Monday,
April 10, so buy your "I GAVE TO 
CHARITY" buttons NOW for only $1.00 
apiece! Flashing your "I GAVE TO 
CHARITY" is the only known way to get 
rid of our obnoxious CHARITY volunteers 
so buy now or you'll be sorry!
LOST-One roommate, answers to "Cathy".
Wandered off after last Friday's Hypnotism 
Seminar. Liberal reward, as I can't afford 
to pay for the room by myself.
John P. Crecine, Dean of the College of
Humanities and Social Sciences, is contin­
uing his program of open office hours. 
In order to make his services more ac­
cessible to the campus community at large, 
he has opted for hours in the Tartan Grill 
between 1:30 and 3:30 on Tuesdays. 
H&SS majors are desirable but not 
required.
LOST: April issues of Passion Swamp,
Orgasm, Loose Lady, and Sinful Lust. 
Please return to Mr. J. Off, PO BOX 
12574.
U.S. Air Force document T837-088-P32-
23-S348-E843-C43-R22-E448-T21. Classi­
fication status: classified.
FACTS ABOUT THE 
FOODS YOU EAT 
Check the nutrition board at the entrance
to the Kiltie to see how you're being de­
prived of you minimum daily require­
ments.
Cushman victim Vanaman on ground. 
"He never knew what hit him."
Lensman Killed
NATRAT photography editor R.V.R. 
Vanaman passed away earlier this week in a 
bizarre accident which also left a 35mm 
Minolta in critical condition.
Vanaman was doing photography for an 
upcoming photo essay entitled "Know 
Your Sod” when one of the silent electrical 
Cushman carts snuck up and “just sort ot 
squished him”, according to an eyewitness 
to the accident. "He didn’t stand a chance. 
He was flatter than an earthworm after a 
heavy rain.” the horror-stricken biology 
major, who wished to remain unidentified, 
added.
The Administration issued a statement 
which placed the blame on the deceased
Vanaman. The anonymously-authored doc­
ument reiterated Maintenance’s policy of 
only releasing the carts between 20 min­
utes past the hour and half-past, and stated 
that Vanaman had no right to be on the 
grass at any time, particularly during that 
peak period. “It is certainly not to reflect 
on the University that a member of its 
student body was imprudent enough to 
blatantly flout the University’s ‘keep-off- 
the-grass policy’, particularly at a time 
when the aforementioned vehicles are in 
motion.”
Services for the past editor have not 
been scheduled, as none has been able to 
get enough of the remains out from bet­
ween the tread on the car’s new radial tires.
X <fce t'W YüUR X'iWAifin fir ycct\t A flie/nstZ
of W<r MrR/jr 'irftfF..
¿essi- / y&,1
r,,i 
u'H/cHX Tihnk, ' 
> QUtrt
FCLLCMitiG
HMMM/ youV6 m
TW AFRfltD YOU
Û0N- T HMh 77Vé
- QUA ¿mi 5

---------------------------------------------------

ARCHITECTURE DEPARTMENT GONE
by Stuart Seidman
Last Wednesday afternoon, while the 
student body was off the campus on their 
spring recess, Akram Midani, the Dean of 
the College of Fine Arts, announced in a 
private press conference that the Depart­
ment of Architecture has been cancelled 
effective the end of this semester. He 
explained that the cancellation is Final 
and will be complete. The students cur­
rently in the program will not be able to 
complete an architecture education at 
Carnegie-Mellon and will receive no assist­
ance in finding places at other schools of 
architecture.
In the tradition of Music Education, 
Midani announced that he and Richard 
Cyert, the president of the university, con­
sulted absolutely no faculty or students in 
making this decision. The department 
head of architecture was not even informed 
as the department has been without a de­
partment head for almost two years.
According to Midani other reasons that 
the department was cancelled include that
by not having a department the National 
Architecture Accreditation Board (NAAB) 
that visited the campus just before vaca­
tion can not give a bad report on the de­
partment and university as there is no 
longer any purpose for them to issue a 
report.
Midani explained that the reason for 
cancelling architecture was the high ex­
pense involved in maintaining a low stu­
dent/faculty ratio. There is also the pro­
blem of a large library collection being 
needed for background research by the 
students and the large studio spaces requir­
ed for the students to work in.
Midani speculated on what use the cur­
rent architecture facilities would be put to 
use as. The freshman studios in Doherty
Hall will probably be given to the Econo­
mics Department to hold their ever increas­
ing Intro courses in. The Studios in Maggie 
Murph are most likely to be turned back 
into Home Economics classrooms and labs 
to teach the food service personnel how to 
cook. The largest amount of speculation
has been about the future use of the beau­
tiful studios on the second floor of Fine 
Arts. They are not to be given to Design,
Last Wednesday afternoon Robert 
Taylor, the head of The Architecture 
Search Committee, announced that the 
long search fòt a head for the Department 
of Architecture had come to a conclusion. 
That morning he had received a telegram of 
acceptance from Charles Moore of Los 
Angeles that Moore had accepted the CMU 
position.
Moore is a well known author of books 
on architecture and the urban environ­
ment. Moore is currently a professor of 
Architecture at UCLA. He had previously 
served as the Department Head of Archi­
tecture at Yale and at Berkley. Moore has 
also been a consultant to the U.S. State 
Department.
Moore was first offered the job on
but are to be used as one large music 
practice room for the Carnegie-Mellon 
Conservatory of Music.
March 23, the day after he gave a lecture at 
CMU. Richard Cyert, the president of the 
university, offered him the job immediate­
ly after the Search Committee recom­
mended him after an emergency meeting 
Thursday morning. This morning the uni­
versity received a telegram from Moore 
saying that he had accepted the university’s 
offer to come to Pittsburgh.
It has been rumored that a primary pro­
blem in getting a new Department Head 
for Architecture has been the low salary of 
the position. However, for Moore this pro­
blem has apparently been corrected as his 
salary is reputed to be in the range of 
$75,000-$ 100,000/year. It is believed that 
this is the primary reason for Moore’s deci­
sion to move to the three rivers area.
Head Search Over
Cheating II:Teachers Not Exempt departments
In a previous article, “Undergrads 
Expose Cheating,” students cited examples 
of blatant cheating. “Cheating-Part II” re­
veals the students’ opinions on the subject 
and how they cope with the wandering 
eyes. Professors are accused of cheating 
right in the faces of students, especially in 
large lecture classes where the seating is 
close. Cheating occuring in many classes 
might be easy to detect but hard to prove. 
Most professors will not admit to cheating 
and according to one student, Angelo Pas- 
quali, “You have to catch them in the act 
and react immediately. Calling a professor 
to your dorm room one day or a week later 
gives him too long to think about it.” 
The question of what is considered 
cheating and how much is actually noticed 
was put to various students. The following 
answers were elicited. Steve Kable (CFA) 
—“Well, the professor is only cheating him­
self, foreclosing obtaining the benefits 
from the opportunity of education. There 
are probably two main causes: old people 
have seen enormous “dishonesties” in the 
real world-in private business, and in pub­
lic life. They figure, ‘is this not the way of
life?’ As for the second cause, I’ll be 
damned if I know what it is.”
Russ Smith (Sanitation Engineering)— 
“It’s such a rampant problem. Like, profs 
write things right out of the book on the 
blackboard—like, they never bother to 
footnote anything-and like, then they 
erase the evidence with an eraser—like, 
in front of a hundred eye witnesses.
Frank Suffotto (GSIA)—“What to do 
about it? I hate punishment, but in view of 
the offense I think they should lose their 
tenure, get their hands cut off and be 
shipped to Cleveland.”
Students are warned against plagiarism 
and cheating in the CMU Student Hand­
book, but it’s about time we had some 
regulations for teachers’ misconduct.
CMU Alumnus Sought
Humphrey H. Longfellow, also known 
as “Snorkel Puss”, “Shorty Longfellow”, 
‘The Great Profile”, and “6453120”, is
"Guess where?" 
H. H. Longfellow
the current president of the CMU Alumni 
Association’s Ft. Leavenworth, Kansas 
chapter.CMU TO CLOSE
by Kevin Q. Brown
President Cyert announced yesterday 
that the Board of trustees had unanimous­
ly decided to close the university. The rea­
son cited was insufficient profits. “It’s not 
that we are going in the red,” Cyert ex­
plained, “But we could be making more 
money by investing in other areas. The 
result is known as an opportunity loss 
and in that sense we are indeed losing 
money by staying in the university busi­
ness.” Cyert explained that the closing of 
the university would proceed accopding to 
the following three step plan:
1. All students will be evicted from Uni­
versity Housing, food contracts will be 
terminated, and all University faculty 
and staff will be relieved of their duties 
(except administrators) effective im­
mediately.
2. The assets of the University will be 
sold at an auction. This includes all 
material inside the present buildings 
but not the buildings themselves, which 
will be converted into factories. (Step
three.) The auction will begin at 1:00 
PM Saturday April 15 on the cut. Major 
items on sale include the IBM 360, 
which will be offered in a package deal 
with a set of baseball bats from the 
athletic department; food service’s 
secret formula for Tartanburgers; the 
ping pong table in the Chem E lounge ; 
and the entire stock of Servomation 
machines on campus.
3. Conversion of the remaining buildings 
to factories will proceed under the di­
rection of the newly-formed Carnegie- 
Mellon Biscuit Company. The primary 
plants will be Baker and Dougherty 
Halls where the main line of pasteries 
and Dick Cyert Bagels will be produced. 
Cyert indicated that he expects very lit­
tle student opposition to this plan. This is 
because he and the Bored members have 
carefully evaluated the many bitter student 
complaints about this school that have 
appeared in this paper and determined that 
the students don’t really want to continue 
studying here anyway.
Longfellow First attended CMU in 1947. 
In 1948 he transferred to the woodworking 
school of Lewisburg State Penitentiary 
where he received his third degree in 1955.
Longfellow returned to CMU that same 
year on a Mellon scholarship, entering the 
Fine Arts department. He received his B.S. 
in Drama in 1956.
Active in school activities, he holds the 
all-time high record score on the Carnegie- 
Mellon Rifle Team.
His first position after graduation was 
as an enforcer for Joseph Bananas and 
Family, Inc. Because of his unusually pro­
mising talents, J.B. and F. Inc. sent him 
overseas on a scholarship to the University 
of Sicily in 1958.
In 1961, the by-then, Dr. Longfellow re-
"CMU made me 
all I am today"
turned to America to accept a position as 
Head of the Complaint Department of the 
Friendly Protection Company of Chicago, 
Illinois.
Still active in many organizations, Dr. 
Longfellow is this year’s foreman of Cell 
Block 14’s Kangaroo Court. He is also pres­
ident of the American Pen Pal Association.
Dr. Longfellow has received numerous 
awards for his outstanding achievements in 
his Field, including the “Big Al” trophy and 
a Certificate of Merit from the Carnegie- 
Mellon Alumni Association.
Dr. Longfellow’s present address, how­
ever, is unknown. The Alumni Office and 
the State Penitentiary request that anyone 
who knows of Longfellow's whereabouts 
notify the authorities immediately.
GSIA Up
The national ranking of the GSIA rose 
from sixty-sixth to number two accord­
ing to the most recent ranking by the MBA 
Magazine (April ’78). The administration 
and the student body express great pride in 
their deserved position. GSIA dean Robert 
Kaplan responded to the poll through the 
weekly GSIA newsletter. Kaplan stated;
“The methods MBA uses to arrive at 
such a figure are naturally very scienti­
fic and legitimate. We’re proud to achieve 
this recognition which officially acknowl­
edges our position at the top of the heap.”
GSIA Down
The national ranking of the Graduate 
School of Industrial Administration drop­
ped from fourth to sixty-sixth according to 
MBA Magazine (Dec. ’77). Neither the 
students or the administration take much 
heed in the MBA report. Kaplan stated;
“My personal feeling is that the annual 
ranking of professional schools is ridicu­
lous and the methodology of pulling 
names out of a hat is generally suspect.’
Disco “In"
by Eric Waters
The CMU Music Department will offer 
incoming freshmen an opportunity to op­
tion in disco, according to Robert Page, 
Music Department Head.
The new program conforms to Page’s 
October decision to emphasize perfor­
mance in his department, as opposed to 
music education.
Page stated that in addition to the 
required harmony, instrument, and com­
posing classes, students will take advanced 
studies in the bump, the hustle, Bee Gees 
appreciation, and disco fashion design.
He feels that these courses will give 
students in the program a good overview of 
“what disco is all about.” He added “I got 
most of my inspiration for the program 
from watching Saturday Night Fever."

---------------------------------------------------

X T-Vr _ z z v©- .r1 ^zr«- "r*
^r J “* cvloc root ot 5?.^&LOCtt'&
APRIL 1,1978/VOLUIYIE ll/ISSUE 9: 
VELOCITY PROFILES IN ANNULAR LAMINAR FLOW
by ChemE Lab 1
1. Introduction and Theory
The objective of this experiment is to deter­
mine a velocity distribution in tangential annular 
laminar flow for rotating cylinders of various di­
ameters in a constant size tank. This was accom­
plished by rotating cylinders of various diameters 
at a constant angular velocity and recording the 
time for one revolution of paper purich-outs at 
specified radial position coordinates.
For fluid flow in an angular pattern, the veloci­
ty components v(r) and v(z) are zero and the flow 
is laminar. The pressure gradient in the indirec­
tion is zero. For the system in Figure 1 (1.), the 
following equations apply:
Equation of Continuity for 
Cylindrical Coordinates
Equations of Motion in Cylindrical Coordinates 
in terms of velocity gradients for a Newtonian 
Fluid with constant density and viscosity
r-component: (1) (2.)
0-component: (2) (3.)
z-component: (3) (4.)
These statements are made on physical terms. 
In this case, all terms in Equation (1) are zero and 
Equations (2), (3), and (4) reduce to
r-component (5) (6.)
0-component (6)(7.)
z-component (7)(8.)
Equation (6) may be integrated with respect to r, 
resulting in
<8)(9.)
The experimental tangential velocity is given by
(9) (10.)
where r=R(o)—distance from outside wall. 
Rearranging Equation (8)
(10X11.)
The right side of Equation (10) depends only on r 
because R(o) is constant in this experiment. If 
this theory is applicable, plotting the left side vs. 
r, all data should fall on the same line.
2. Experimental
Two fluids were investigated in this experiment: 
Glycerol and Carbopol 934., A qualitative run on 
the carbopol was done. For the glycerol, different 
sized cylinders were first rotated to find the time 
for one revolution in order to calculate the angu­
lar velocity of the cylinder. Paper punch-outs were 
then placed on the fluid surface at specified radial 
positions and the time for one revolution was 
found. It was assumed that each paper punch-out 
remained at that specific radial position for the 
entire revolution. The accuracy of the stopwatch 
used is =0.5 sec and for the vernier calipers used 
in finding the diameters of the various is + 0.002 
cm. For the carbopol, the same cylinders were 
used and paper punch-outs were observed. Two 
different speed settings were used for both fluids 
tested.
3. Results and Discussion
For the most part, the data followed the theor­
etical aspects of this lab. Data on the first three 
cylinders indicate that the theory presented is fol­
lowed more closely as the paper punch-outs 
moved toward the wall of the tank than toward 
the rotating cylinder. This is probably due to the 
rotating cylinder because it is the closet domi­
neering force present to the three dots closest to 
the rotating cylinder for the smaller of the cylin­
ders used in this experiment. As the radius of the 
cylinder increased, there was less area for the pa­
per punch-outs to move around and since the ro­
tating cylinder force was in a much more con­
fined area than the smaller cylinders, the force 
that moved the liquid was felt more by the out­
side paper punch-outs with rotating cylinders
with larger radii. This could probably explain why 
the data fell on the same curve for those rotating 
cylinders with a large radius as opposed to those 
cylinders with small radii. For all plots, data for 
the cylinder rotating at a low tK almost represen­
ted the curve when the cylinder was rotating at a 
high At. To support the presented theory, all data 
should have fallen along the same curve. A sample 
plot of the data for cylinder 1 where the theoreti­
cal V was used shows this to be true, (see Figure 
7) Another source of error might be that the radi­
al position of the paper punch-outs did not re­
main the same throughout the revolution. Also, as 
the radial position of the paper punch-out got 
closer and closer to the rotating cylinder, the per­
cent error between the theoretical and experi­
mental values of V increased enormously. The 
data plots (Figures 2-6) represent the velocity 
profile of the fluid while the inner cylinder is ro­
tating at a constant angular velocity. The shape of 
the curves seem to follow the shape of a velocity 
head traveling through a tube where the fluid is in 
laminar flow.
For the carbopol, there was no set pattern that 
the paper punch-outs followed. When the smaller 
cylinders were used, the paper punch-outs closest 
to the wall stayed in their respective radial posi­
tions for awhile, stopping sometimes, and then 
the dots either moved toward or away from the 
outside wall. Some of the paper punch-outs that 
were close to the rotating cylinder moved right up 
against the cylinder and then moved away from 
it. At one point, a few dots moved into the same 
radial position as another dot, but the dots did 
not stay an equal distance apart from each other. 
In some cases, the dots almost touched each 
other.
4. Conclusions
1. Theory presented holds only for New 
tonian fluids.
2. Velocity profiles for small cylinders 
were unstable for those paper punch- 
outs closest to the rotating cylinder.
3. Velocity profiles for the large cylinders 
seem to represent a straight line.

---------------------------------------------------

Morewood Plaza Set
by Joseph Larson
The Morewood Plaza, an indoor shop­
ping mall on the first floor of Morewood 
Gardens, will open for business Labor Day, 
September 4, 1978.
The lobby area of the CMU dormitory 
will be renovated along the lines of the gen­
eral architectural style of the other campus 
buildings, and will have eleven boutiques 
and shops upon completion.
The renovation designs include energy- 
saving measures, setting an example to the 
community. According to Auxiliary Ser­
vices Director Bill Dillon, these measures 
can also save money.
“For example, we're not going to have 
heating, cooling or air circulation systems. 
This may be slightly uncomfortable for an 
indoor mall, but when you’ve got the 
closest shopping mall around, you don't
have to worry about losing customers. And 
this will really help to cut construction 
costs.”
But Dillon promises that the plaza will 
be lighted at least. “It’ll be as bright as the 
Kiltie Cafe is these days,” he continued.
Despite these inconveniences, several 
members of the CMU community have 
expressed confidence in the venture by 
leasing commercial space in the project.
AMS Department Head Mary Ann 
O'Nan plans to open a sporting goods 
store, called Chez Mary Ann O’Nan; Robert 
Page of the Music Department has leased 
an education department store; SUPA is 
opening a TRAVEL RHODESIA office; 
Student Government President John 
Tumazos is opening a stand where people 
can buy TARTAN classifieds in support of 
him; and Housing Director Gerry Dalton 
has leased space for his real estate firm.
Housing Options Offered
Gary Dalton, Director of Housing at 
CMU has announced the latest in a series 
of revolutionary moves by his department.
“We know that a lot of students are 
complaining about the lack of housing 
space on this campus. They’re also upset 
about the Centrex system, and the .fact 
that we’ve had to rip out excuse me re­
move the hall phones. In an effort to paci­
fy both of these groups, we’ve used all our 
ingenuity and come up with what we 
think is a pretty reasonable solution.”
Dalton's suggestion is that the empty 
phone cubicles left in Morewood's E-Tower 
be converted to sleeping quarters» “They’ll 
make fine singles if we can just find a way 
to increase the closet space without cramp­
ing the bed too much. But that’s a minor 
consideration. As to the rumors that they 
were slated to be converted to triples, 
they're simply not true. We've decided that 
the pegboard partitions between the rooms 
are just too architecturally interesting to be 
destroyed."
Construction and - renovation of the 
living space is slated to be completed at the 
same time the new dormitories are due to 
be finished, but Dalton says that that 
won't affect the people who'll be living 
there next year. “Students at CMU, I 
think, are aware of the housing conditions 
when they apply here. Luckily for us, 
they're either real survivors or real gluttons 
for punishment. That’s strictly off-the-re- 
cord, of course.”
Frosh Initiation Back
In an effort to return to the glorious 
“Carnegie Tradition” of the past and to 
instill in the Student Body a greater sense
MIS Bugged
Scientists at Mellon Institute have 
created a 7 foot long stinkbug which can 
run at speeds of up to 95 miles per hour. 
Martin Madd, the project director says that 
they have a good chance to win this year's 
bug race even though Sigma Nu’s 6 foot 5 
inch Hornet will give some stiff competi­
tion. There still are a few bugs (technical 
difficulties) to be worked out, however. In 
particular, the stinkbug has not yet been 
successfully trained to stay on the race 
course rather than mingling in the crowds 
and eating the bystanders. It also contri­
butes substantially to the local air pollu­
tion index when it gets upset.
of school spirit, the Administration and the 
Upperclassmen have decided to reinstate 
and jointly sponsor Freshman Initiation, 
beginning with the incoming C'lass of '82.
At registration, freshmen will be issued 
an identifying badge which must be visible 
at all times in order to make sure that they 
greet all approaching upperclassmen with a 
salute, smile, or other appropriate gesture. 
Obligatory freshmen beanies will be tin 
sale in the bookstore as of next September. 
Frosh will be required to attend all Fresh­
men Assemblies, as well as to pass the 
Traditions Test in mid-October. This test 
was discontinued in the late '50s. Until the 
Freshman does so, lie or she is barred from 
participating in all upperclass privileges, 
which include the right to complain to any­
one about anything, including Fresman 
orientation, and to use the walkways which 
run cross-wise to the Cut (parallel to 
Forbes Avenue) and which will not be pay 
walks.
MISC.
Jo,hn Eichmuller, director of Food Ser­
vice, has announced that food contract 
prices will drop for the coming academic 
year, since the University's application for 
food stamps was accepted.
It is reported that the Housing Office
is looking for urban renewal subsidies to 
help lower their contract prices. According 
to Housing Director Gerry Dalton, “We do 
not expect much trouble getting the funds. 
They usually condemn places run by slum­
lords for renewal."
Late physics professor Huey D. Young 
remarked that he would not interrupt class 
“until smoke came through the door,” 
when a fire alarm sounded in Doherty Hall 
last Wednesday. Two large lecture classes 
also did not evacuate thinking that the 
alarm was a fire drill.
“The failure to leave the classroom 
might have proven harmful if a fire was 
raging,” remarked Elvis Costello of Secur­
ity, making a really intelligent observation.
The Pittsburgh firemen who quickly re­
sponded were impeded by the reluctance 
of professors and students to quit toasting 
marshmellows and roasting weiners.
Security had sounded the alarm when it 
appeared that there was a fire in the build­
ing. According to Elvis, “Well, I thought 
fast to sound the alarm when a man rushed 
into the office drinking tabasco sauce yel­
ling, ‘fire, fire!’ ”
Earle Swank. Dean of Student Affairs, 
recently reported an increase in interming­
ling among students from the various col­
leges and departments at Carnegie-Mellon.
He attributed this increase to a slackening * 
of women's dormitory regulations.
Don't Myth Carnival
In the spirit of mythological Rome, the 
Spring Carnival Midway will have a “Ro­
man Holiday” theme this year, with a par­
ticularly heavy emphasis on the orgiastic 
nature of Caesar's day.
“If you read Ovid's Metamorphose or 
any of the alleged ‘classics', you'll see that 
lust-ravishing beautiful virgins and nubile 
young boys- was a key part of that liter­
ary genre. That's why we’ve decided to re­
place the Tilt-a-Whirl, never one of our 
most popular rides, with what has been 
billed as the 'World’s largest water bed’., A 
Phi O will be serving ambrosia and grapes, 
and Lambda Sigma is considering running a 
Roman bath as their service project. And
we can’t even begin to imagine what the 
fraternities and sororities will contribute 
to the festivities. We guarantee that this 
Carnival will be even better than the ‘Silk 
Hose and Garters’ theme in 1927, and that 
was pretty racy stuff back then,” conclu­
ded chairperson Claire Booth.
The performance by the rock group Re­
naissance will be in the spirit of things, as 
a great many legends sprang up even dur­
ing the so-called “Age of Enlightenment”. 
And the annual semi-formal dance, featur­
ing the legendary Eastern Veil Dance 
should top off the weekend's festivities in 
a manner not to be forgotten.
Ever ingenious. Housing has come up with at least two alternatives to the housing shortage. Oh the 
left is the new “Bell System Single" (see story), and on the right is the temporary quarters 
in which transfer students will be placed pending the completion of the Webster Hall-Schenley 
Park complex. Below is the short°term winter housing complex.

---------------------------------------------------

ENTERTAINMENT
EVENTS
The CMU Suicide Club will present Harold 
and Maude on Saturday April 8 in DH 
2210 at 6:00, 8:30, and 11:00 PM. Ad­
mission is $1.00.
This week’s AB Fine Art Film will be 
Behind the Green Door starring Marilyn 
Chambers. The film will be shown April 6 
in DH 2210 at 6, 8, 10, and 12 PM. Ad­
mission is $1 with ID, $.75 without.
AB will present a Leave it to Beaver Film 
Festival Friday April 7 in the Ballroom 
beginning at 8:00. Admission is $1 with 
ID and $1.25 without.
SDC will show Star Wars April 8 in DH 
2210. Showings of the film will be 6, 8:30 
and 11 PM and are free.
PITT PUNK
The Punk Pistols played in Heinz Hall
this Friday as a last minute replacement
for Marcel Marceau, who had taken ill. It
was a pleasant change of pace to not hear
the group. However, they did not fool the
crowd for one minute. Everyone knows
that Marcel Marceau does not have four
heads. Nevertheless, the group gave quite
an effort. With erouo leader Albert Awful at the head, they gave a totally convincing
performance of an angry little punk rock 
group looking for a live electrical outlet 
into which to plug their equipment. The 
other members of the group are, in alpha­
betical order, Bobby Bad, Marvin Mali­
cious, and Tommy Terrible.
President Cyert emulates the late New York mayor LaGuardia by reading the good parts out ôf 
the NATRAT over FM WRCT. It was a short broadcast.
Pittsburgh vet doctor Paul Moritz works 
feverishly to save the life of Sigma Nu mascot 
who accidentally wandered in front of a band 
of brothers in the process of torching SAE lions. 
Fang was listed in critical condition at last report.
Allen in Concert
“Neither rain, sleet, nor gloom of night 
can keep this carrier from his appointed 
rounds.”
This popular saying was created with 
the mailmen in mind, but Friday evening 
it could have applied to something else- 
the Woody Allen concert. Despite the un­
expected blizzard, nothing could of stop­
ped the fans who wanted to hear the thrill­
ing musical voice of Woody Allen! Hoards 
of adoring girls flocked to the raised stage 
when Woody bounded out, clad in a 
quiana shirt that was unbuttoned to the 
navel, red velvet pants and fringed beige 
boots. With outstretched arms, some 
waving bras, they cried, “Woody-Woody!” 
He stomped, swerved and shook his long 
frizzy hair. The girls swooned. Woody 
knew how to handle the worshippers. 
Periodically, he bent over and touched 
some hands. Musically, he touched many 
hearts. Throughout the concert Woody 
had a good rapport with the audience. He 
thanked the secret admirer who sent him 
an “esoteric gift-underwear,” before the 
concert, and explained he received it 
because in a recent concert he unknowing­
ly performed the opening number with his 
zipper down. Then as a display of his 
super-macho he removed his glasses for the 
remaining numbers.
Television personality and philosopher Bob 
Clampett will give a lecture in the ballroom this 
coming Thursday at 8:00 PM. His topic will be 
"Beanie and Cecil as Existentialist Beings." The 
lecture is free.
AN EXPERIENCE IN TERROR AND SUSPENSE 
THE FINAL
-See helpless students match their wits against an implaca­
ble enemy.
-Watch the clock speed up when the test begins. 
-Experience the shock and grief of discovering that you 
should have studied Chapter 11.
Coming soon to a theater near you. Rated F.
THE POSTMAN ALWAYS RINGS 
TWICE
AND USES OUR BATHROOM ON 
MONDAY, WEDNESDAY, AND 
FRIDAY 
by Robert A. Zimmermann
A novel of love, hate, intrigue, 
sex, violence, war, peace, deceit, 
truth, health, happiness, poverty, 
disease, thirteen-cent stamps, and 
civil service.
"Unbelievable"-Rex Harrison 
"Very interesting"-Arte Johnson 
"Twuly a cwassic thwiwwer"—
Baba Wawa
“An awesome masterpiece of 
love, hate, intrigue, sex, violence, 
war, peace, deceit, truth, health, 
happiness, poverty, disease, thir­
teen-cent stamps, and civil ser­
vice. "Judith Crist
ONLY $19.95
¿es i--y&,-1¿
The Biomedical Engineering Department is ex
panding its horizons. Shown here is a freshman 
final protect from the newest course, Introduc­
tory Embalming 21-101.
LIFE AT CARNEGIE-MELLON UNIV. 
HAS YOU BY THE THROAT. ACA­
DEMIC PRESSURE IS SUFFOCATING 
YOU. YOUR FEEBLE EXISTANCE IS 
SPENT IN QUIET STUDY. ESCAPE.
it's the next best thing to dropping out.
diversitv of•m r ~nlinr ionr Office
5pm- 6pm

---------------------------------------------------

PORTS
BUCCY FEVER SPREADS
Buggy fever has come to a peak with the 
announcement of Pika's revolutionary 
buggy concept. Their buggy spokesman 
said, “What we really have is the ideal 
lightweight buggy with a minimum of drag. 
Total assembly will weigh about 110 
pounds, including our driver, who's been 
on a strict diet consisting of the nutritive 
extracts of Tartanburgers. Basically, what 
we have is a magnesium frame which was 
obtained by some of the metallurgy majors 
on the team. The body of the buggy, which 
we're naming The Man From Glad-iator, 
consists of a huge plastic bag which will be 
blown up around the driver and fastened 
with a twist-em. The safety factor is tre­
mendous: the air bag technology is years 
ahead of what any other house can pro 
duce at this time. We can't lose!’'
Closest rival Sigma Nu disagrees- The 
Zoo spokesman declared. "They don’t 
know what they're talking about. We’re 
this year’s team to beat." No specifics of the 
design were revealed, but it was hinted 
that it had something to do with the 
house's mascots.
In order to avoid the high incidence 
of accidents which marred last year’s 
Sweepstakes, safety helmets and St. Chris­
topher medals will be required equipment 
in all buggies this year..
ATO has high hopes for its newest buggy this year«, "It isn't the fastest one we've ever built, but 
it should win the design competition hands down," a frat spokesman said.
PiKA's inflatable buggy. Note steam pipe on rear to exhaust C02 from the bag's interior.
IM COES POWDERPUFF
In reccnt weeks the school's athletic 
department has been approached with 
allegations that it is not providing equal 
opportunities for females in intramural 
sports. In order to help cool down the 
onslaught of student complaints, it has
"It is, potentially, 
a very silly sport."
announced its plans to institute a Powder- 
puff Football league next fall.
F.veryone knows that this co-recreation- 
al sport provides not only exercise for
both male and female students, but is also 
a means through which many a lonely 
athlete has found his or her partner for 
life.
The NATRAT’s sports staff has sought 
out the following comments concerning 
this ammendation to next year’s schedule.
Rufus Derby, History Major - “This 
strongly calls to mind the practice of old 
plantation owners beating all of his slaves 
with powder puffs when one displeased 
him. It could be interesting."
Dean Cox - “It ought to help keep the 
girls out of trouble, at least. I certainly 
hope so.”
Jim Banner, Athletic Director - “1
give up.
A freshman coed who wished not to 
be identified — “As I understand it, it’s
"It won't hurt as 
much as the bill."
just like football, only we’re using a pow- 
derpuff instead. I can only think of about a 
million things I’d rather do than be hit 
with a powderpuff. Oh, why did I ever 
leave high school?”
Financial Department — “It might draw 
crowds at that.”
Popular opinion can’t be denied — 
athletic department take notice.
New Stadium
by Robert A. Zimmermann
As expected. President Cyert announced 
today that S3 million of the school's rapid­
ly shrinking endowment will be applied to 
the construction of a fully enclosed, cli- 
mate-controlled, domed football stadium. 
Tentatively named THE STADIUM until 
some wealthy alumnus decides to kick in 
another $5 million, it is expected to be 
ready by the summer of 1981.
President Cyert, in an exclusive inter­
view with this reporter, cited the need for 
CMU to assert itself in areas other than 
scholastic achievement. The president 
added, “I believe that the Tartans are 
quickly emerging as the country’s next 
football champions. With just a narrow loss 
last year in the coveted A. Alonzo Stagg 
Bowl, we will be attracting more talented 
freshmen. The new facilities will prove to 
them that we are committed to high- 
quality football.”
The architects for the project will be the 
well-known Firm of Damianos and Pedone, 
who did the renovation of the Tartan Grill 
as well as the design for the new hill dorm. 
A spokesman for the Firm expressed no 
great surprise at the announcement.
Concrete Canoe Launched
Concrete canoe’s initial run was some­
what spoiled last week when the canoe, 
christened “Lump”, sank to the bottom of 
the Allegheny River. Craig Falk, team cap­
tain, attributed the accident to a combina­
tion of the corrosive effects of the water.
structural defects including a high ratio of 
pure Portland cement in the hull, and body 
fractures caused by the Coke bottle used 
at the christening ceremony. “Next time 
we'll try the Mon. The water there’s a 
whole lot denser than we are.” added Falk.
The Orienteering Club sponsored its annual orienteering contest late last week. Shown here is the 
first finisher, Claude Pickering, who was eventually disqualified when the judges realized that he 
hadn't planted his flag on Flagstaff Hill at all.
ISU3S4
In an effort to provide equal educational opportunities for all minorities, Hiram College placed
dwarf "Stretch " Trimble. 4'6" on its starting lineup. Trimble « shown here administering a low The Tart™‘ ma* ,ina,,V •* 0111 of the mud' according to architect Pedone who displays his
blow to a CMU hooper. concept of the Stadium._____________________________________ _________________________
