MILITARY 1 RAINING 
BEGINS 
THURSDAY 8 A. M.¡J1}t (lari an
INTER-PLEBE 
MEE1 
FRIDAY, APRIL 13
VOL. XI. NO. 26CARNEGIE INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY, PITTSBURGH, PENNSYLVANIAAPRIL 11, 1917
COLONEL JADWIN 
ADDRESSES ASSEMBLY
UNCLE SAM’S BIGGEST ARMY AVIATION SCHOOL
Army Officer Spoke Today 
on Training- of Engineer 
Officers
'ORGANIZED STUDENTS TRAIN
The first regular all scliool assembly 
•of April in the Carnegie Music Hall 
ivas addressed by Colonel Jadwin, o£ 
the Engineers’ Corps, United States 
-army, who outlined the processes 
through which a candidate must pass 
“before lie can be commissioned. Spe- 
•cial reference was madè" to the present 
¦war situation.
, Mr. McConway, chairman of the 
•committee 011 the Institute of Tech­
nology of the Board of Trustees, also 
spoke. Prof. Keller announced plans 
made by the faculty to further the 
work of preparing the students for 
military service.
Following the assembly, those per­
sons not desiring to take the course 
in military instruction were asked to 
leave, and the remainder organized 
"the provisional companies and elected 
the commander, who will be responsi­
ble for the proper methods of training 
.and the instructors to carry them 011.
The assistance of the orchestra, the 
•¿lee clubs and the choral club, who 
lielped to make the assembly a suc­
cess is to be especially commended.
TENNIS TEAM FACES DIFFICULT SCHEDULE
Eight matches are carded for the 
Plaid racqueters, six of which will be 
played on- the fine home courts. The 
contests away are with Grove City 
and Allegheny colleges and will be 
played on succeeding days next 
month, making up a small trip.
Pitt will be played at home May 
26 and negotiations are under way for 
a return engagement with the Pan­
thers bn the latter’s courts. IE ar­
ranged, the extra match probably will 
be -played during the first week in 
June.
Prospects for a successful net sea­
son are considered bright. Davis and 
Beatty, the two holdovers-from last 
year’s team, are reliable veterans and 
should form the nucleus of a good 
aggregation. Davis has been re-elect- 
od captain for this season.
The complete schedule follows:
May 9—Penn State at home.
May-----Grove City College at home.
May 18—Grove City College away.
May 19—Allegheny College away.
May 25—Allegheny College at home.
May 26—Pitt at liime.
June 2—Kenyon College at home.
June 7—Syracuse Univ. at home.
CONSTITUTION PASSES 
THREE OF FOUR SCHOOLS
The All-Schools Constitution, as 
;proposed by the Constitution Commit­
tee, was ratified before vacation by 
the Margaret Morrison, Design and 
Science Schools, but it was not ap­
proved in its present form by the In­
dustries Assembly, which objected to 
•one or two parts of the constitution. 
The document to too long for publica­
tion, but is summarized as follows:
The governing body is to be a stu­
dent council composed of ten repre­
sentatives and a president, the reprer 
sentatives being President of Senate
• and President of Senior Class from 
M. M. C. S., President of School and 
Chairman of Senate from Design. 
President of Assembly and President 
of the Senior Class from Industries 
President of Senate and President of 
Senior Class from Science, President 
•of Student Activities Board, and 
President of Athletic Association. The 
President of Council is elected in 
¦May from the Junior or Middle classes 
¦by having each school nominate a can­
didate, and then letting the Council 
choose from these four nominees.
The officers of the Council shall be
a, president, vice president, a secre- 
tary-treasurgr, and a recorder. They 
shall perform the duties usually asso­
ciated with these offices. In addition, 
there is an executive committee com­
posed of the President of the Council, 
the President of the Activities Board, 
and the President of the Athletic As­
sociation. This committee has power 
to authorize the president to call 
special meetings of council, and to 
pass on matters requiring immediate 
attention, subject to review by Coun­
cil. Regular meetings of Council are 
provided for every two weeks, with 
six members other than the presiding 
officers as quorum.
The Constitution closes with the 
usual Articles concerning the powers 
of the Council in all matters pertain­
ing to the four schools, the initiative 
on petition of 100 students, the refer- 
•eudum on petition of 300, by-laws, 
.amendme^^and ratification.
General scene showing the grounds of tin? largest of Uncle Sam’s army aviation schools, at North Island, located 
near San Diego, Cal. The school is commanded by Col. W. Eh Glassford. It Is the crack school of the country, and 
il Is expected that over ..vt«,,-m 1.., from this instruction post every year.
TRAC MEN TRAINING FOR OPENING MEET
Plebe Games on Friday Give 
Piomise of Bringing Out 
Many New Candidates
With the coming ot spring, track 
activities are fast rounding into shape 
under the able direction of Coach 
Frank Eyman. For the past several 
weeks, up to and during Easter hol­
idays, the track men have been work­
ing out three times every week. A 
fine new cinder track under course of 
construction will be completed in 
time for the first meet next Friday. 
It is oval in shape, running the entire 
circuit of the baseball diamond. 
Trainer Bert Munliall and the assis­
tant managers have been working 
hard toward its completion.
Manager W. L. Rem her has pre­
pared a hard schedule for the track 
teams and there are many new comers 
out. Captain Jake Adams, Design, 
’IS; F. I. Lawson, Dunseith, I-Iaub, the 
high, jumper; Pickett, the -pole vault- 
er; Hemman and other old men are 
out. W. F. Wenning, so far, is the 
most likely-looking Plebe, but Titus 
and Smith, two Plebes of the Science 
and Design schools, are showing up 
well. Nothing has been decided, as 
yet, as to the make-up. The first meet 
is the Inter-Plebe affair for next Fri­
day. This is sure to bring to light 
some good men. A relay race at the 
Penn relay carnival in Philadelphia 
is scheduled for April 28. Pitt was to 
have been met.on Schenley Oval May 
12, but the Panthers closed this date 
with Annapolis, and another date, 
probably, will be arranged with our 
rivals.
^.---Evcn if the teams do not meet in a 
dual clash, they will come together 
the track and field, as the Slcibos 
are slated to participate in the Pitt 
Intercollegiate meet on Schenley 
Oval, May 19.
The annual Tech Interscholastic 
meet is scheduled for May 26, in con­
nection with the dual meet with Alle­
gheny College. On this occasion Tech 
will invite a number of the students 
(Continued on page Four.)
THREE PRIZES AWARDED IN MODELING CONTEST
In the judgment of the "Vase” con­
test in modeling, the jury was of the 
opinion that the results did not jus­
tify awarding the full amount avail­
able for prizes. However, they rec­
ommended that prizes of $15, $10 and 
$5, respectively, be awarded to the 
three students receiving the highest 
ratings. These students are, in order, 
R. A. Freeburg, J. F. DeYoung, and 
C. H. Sorber. These men may be 
given an opportunity to continue work 
upon their vases.
THETA XI FRATERNITY 
HOLDS ANNUAL DANCE
TECH MAN LEARNS 
FLYING IN U. S. ARMY
Director Leete Receives Let­
ter from Former Science 
Man in Aviation Corps
The following letter from a Tech 
student, now in an Aviation School 
similar to the one shown in the above 
cut, is of especial interest at this time, 
in that it shows one of the many ways 
in which a Tech man may aid his 
country. The Tartan is enabled 
to publish the letter tlirougii the cour­
tesy of Director 'Leete. The editors 
have eliminated, for obvious reasons, 
certain portions which refer to the 
type and power of the aeroplanes.
Newport News, Va.,
Mar. 13, 1917.
My Dear Mr. Leete:
I received very good news from 
Pittsburgh yesterday, concerning your 
appointment as -Director of the Li­
brary. I want to extend the most 
hearty congratulations, although your 
being lost to the Science School will 
surely be" felt.
As you see, I did not proceed tp 
Florida, as was first ordered. I re­
ceived a telegram on the Monday fol­
lowing the Prom to proceed to Fort­
ress Monroe, and then to the Curtiss 
School at this point. I am just as 
well satisfied, for the equipment here 
is better than in Florida, as are also 
the instructors.- Victor Carlstrom (of 
New York to Chicago fame), is an in­
structor here, together with six other 
competent flyers.
As for flying, it is certainly the 
greatest of all sports I have over 
tried. The machines used in training 
are military tractors of the Curtiss 
type, with 100 I-I. P. engines and tan­
dem seats. The instructor sits behind 
(Continued on Page Three.)
BASEBALL PRACTICE 
STARTED IN EARNEST
Less Than Two Weeks Be­
fore Opening Game Here 
With Juniata
Baseball season is on and spring 
is here. What more need be said to 
cause that lagging baseball candidate 
to hunt up that good old glove and 
turn out for practice? With Easter 
vacation over and the opening game 
with Juniata College on April 23 not 
two weeks off, Coach McCullough will 
start pushing practice, and it is up to 
every baseball man with the true Tech 
spirit who wants to make the team 
or later yet a job in the trenches 
throwing bombs to turn out.
Workouts are scheduled daily this 
week and the following one. A good­
ly number of men remained over dur­
ing Easter vacation, but were pre­
vented from working out much be­
cause of the inclement weather. The 
players that have been out longest and 
(Continued on Page Four)
MANY COLLEGES BEGIN 
ACTIVE MILITARY WORK
The Women's Schools Stand 
Back of President Wood­
row Wilson
While the Carnegie Institute of 
Technology is marking time in an 
endeavor to decide~just what should 
be done in the present crisis, perhaps 
it will be of benefit to know just what 
other colleges are doing. Certainly 
it is interesting to know that Cornell 
has 1700 officers ready, that Princeton 
students are drilling six hours a week, 
that Walter Camp is organizing 
former athletes, and so 011. The fol­
lowing articles give tho latest moves 
undertaken by many of the big col­
leges.
YALE
The Naval Reservo Flying Corps 
No. 1, on what they believe to bo tho 
evo of a declaration of war with, Ger­
many, arrived in Florida today, 31 
strong, and went into training In tho 
caniij-established early this winter by 
Rodman Wanarnaker, of Philadelphia, 
who has donated its use and that of 
the five machines he already had 
here to tho United States Government;.
The enlisted men, all of whom aro 
Yale students and whose fathers are 
men of wide prominenco, also brought 
some flying machines with them. Just 
how many, however, It Is contrary to 
naval rogu la Lions to state. Visitors 
were barred admittance to the ground. 
Lieut. Trube Davison, son of H. P. 
Davison, of New York, Is In command.
Most of the mon wore suffering 
from the sudden burst of heat,' but 
they were a willing crowd, and it is 
thought three months of stiff drilling 
will convert them into excellent war 
material. The corps will remain here 
until May 15. Only 12 of tho 31 have 
ever been in the air.
WOMEN’S COLLEGES
Poughkeepsie, N. Y., Mar. 30.— 
Nine leading colleges for women in 
America today expressed their loyalty 
when engrossed resolutions of sup­
port were delivered to President 
(Continued on Page Two.)
INDUSTRIES ALUMNUS 
ACCEPTS NEW POSITION
The annual formal dance of the Pi 
Chapter of the Theta Xi Fraternity 
was held Friday evening, March 30, 
at the Twentieth Century Club. The 
grand march, starting at 9:30, was led 
by Mr. and Mrs. E. R. Marvin, fol­
lowed by fifty couples composed of 
active and honorary members and 
guests. An exceptionally fine pro­
gram of twenty-four dances and six 
extras was rendered by Bowen’s se­
lected five-piece orchestra. Refresh­
ments were served after the twelfth 
dance, following which dancing con­
tinued until 2:00 o'clock. The affair 
was very much enjoyed by all, and 
gave an appropriate‘send-off for the 
Easter vacation. The committee in 
charge of arrangements was composed 
of L. D. Pitts, D. F. Mowrey- and E. P. 
Bateham.
? *
? TARTAN STAFF *
| * --------- *
; * There will be a meeting of the * 
! * following men in The Tartan of- *
* fice at 4:30 today, Wednesday,*
* April 11:*
*A. G. Pearce*
*P. H. Armor*
*J. R. IToxworth*
*J. J. Kennedy*
*P. C. Tucker*
*J. P. Davis*
*II. J. Scobell*
*M. D. Meyerson*
*E. IT. Pafenbach*
?L. K. Paquin*
*H. R. Tumin*
*Jos. Levine*
*W. E. Brewer*
**
Carl F; Peters, ’16, School of Ap­
plied Industries, has accepted a posi­
tion with the New Lincoln Stone Com­
pany, Fremont, Ohio, in the capacity 
of general superintendent. The plant 
employs 300 men, about 80 of whom 
are molders. In taking up the new 
work, Peters leaves a good position 
in Detroit, where he has been located 
since graduation.
SCIENCE SCHOOL GIVES 
DESK TO DEAN EETE
i*******************I
At a mass meeting of the Science 
School, on Thursday morning, March
29, the Science men regretfully said 
farewell to Dean Leete, who on April 
1 was installed as Director of the Car­
negie Library of Pittsburgh.
The meeting, which was presided 
over by T. E. Orr, was attended by 
almost every man in the day school, 
and filled the lecture room to over­
flowing.
After the singing of "Amice” and 
j “America” by the students, Mr. Orr,
I ip an appropriate speech presented 
I Dean Leete 011 behalf of the Day Scl- 
I once students with a desk and chair, 
tokens of the respect and ostcern In 
which he will always he hold by them. 
He expressed very well the deep re­
gret which all Science men feel at 
losing their dean, for whom even the 
I Plebes feel affection as well as re- 
| spect. I-Ie gave a brief outline of Dr. 
i Leete’s career at Tech, which was in 
1 (Continued on Page Three.)
MILITARY TRAINING STARTS TOMORROW; SCHEDULE ALTERED TO SECURE TIME
DRAMA STUDENTS PLAN SEVERAL NEW PLAYS
The night students of the Dramatic 
Department will give a program of 
four one-act plays on Friday evening, 
April 13. “Food.” by William C. de 
Mille, and “Suppressed Desires” by 
George Cram Cook and Susan Glaspel, 
will be produced under the direction 
of Mr. T. B. Beatty, while August 
Strindberg’s “Simoom,” and Perclval 
Wilde’s "Playing With Fire” are un­
der the direction of Mr. T. Redmond 
Flood.
Two performances for the students 
of "The Weov/ils,” written by two 
dramatic students, Howard Smith and 
Sara Bennett, have been called for 
next Tuesday afternoon and Wednes­
day evening, April 17 and IS. “The 
Weevils” will be played for the Drama 
League Convention, which will be 
held here April 25 to 27.
Mr. Payne will bo here this week 
to direct rehearsals of Richard II., 
which will bo produced on April 23.
SECOND IN SERIES 8^ 
OF MILITARY LESSONS
Student Instructors Will Drill 
Volunteers Until Army Or- 
ficers Can Assume Charge
WORK BEGINS AT 8 A. M.
As was announced last week, Tho 
Tartan has obtained permission to 
publish a series of seven lessons given 
by the American Military Institute on 
Infantry Drill Regulations and Tactics. 
The second lesson Is as follows:
One of the most Important of the 
manifold duties of tho soldier Is guard j 
duty. In every army of tho world; tho 
manner In which this duty Is perform­
ed Is the very lndox of the discipline 
of the army and the character of the 
officers commanding it. Vigilant and 
sprightly sentinels, attentiveaiid alert 
to duty, denote tho order, vigilance, 
and military effectiveness of a high- 
class command. On the olhor hand, 
sentinels who are slovonly in Lholr 
appearance, unmilltary in their bear­
ing, and caroless In the performance 
of their duties, indicate a laxity of 
discipline which does not speak well 
for the organization to which they bo- 
long.
From tho earliest history of tho hu­
man raco until the prosont time tho 
sentinel has occupied a peculiar posl- 
(Contlnuod 011 Pago Three.)
DIRECTOR SPEAKS FOR 
UNIVERSAL SERVICE
He Announces That Seniors 
Enlisting Will Receive 
Degrees Now
Just before leaving upon their 
Easter vacaLlon, and when the clouds 
of Avar were gathering preparatory to 
bursting out into the present storm, 
the students of the Institute gathered 
at the Music 1-Iall on Friday, March
30, to hear a call to duty from Director 
Hamerschlag. The Assembly was 
opened with patriotic music from the 
band. The Director began his ad­
dress by calling attention to two con­
flicting views held by large numbers 
of our fellow-countrymen, one of 
which was synical, selfish and irre­
sponsible, and the other thoughtfully 
concerned about the modern trend of 
our national life. He said that too 
much had we sought to escape per­
sonal responsibility for the Nation’s 
affairs, too much were we concerned 
over personal comfort and luxury only 
and only too forgetful of the immi­
grants who had come to our shores in 
large numbers. He, although regret­
ting the necessity of the present na­
tional crisis, yet welcomed it if it 
should only serve to awaken our peo­
ple to a sense of their obligations and 
duties toward not only our own folk, 
but the human race as a whole. He 
asserted that only when individual 
standards of morality were made to 
apply to mass action, should we see 
permanent peace established on earth. 
Any one who wished the protection 
and privileges of American Institu­
tions should not hesitate to assume 
responsibility for their protection. 
The Director urged universal service 
In all Its aspects, for both men and 
women, as the patriotic duty of Tech 
undergraduates. Abandon all frlv- 
volity, cut out dances and teas, ath­
letics, and anything else that would 
hinder the preparation of the Individ­
ual for service to his or her country.
In conclusion, the Director an­
nounced that the Institute was pre­
pared to graduate, with diplomas, all 
Seniors who should enlist in the Army 
or Navy, before the regular gradua­
tion days.
Tomorrow morning at S o’clock 
sharp a bugler will sound the assem­
bly from a post beneath the flagpole, 
and at the call all men who have 
elected military training will be 
ready to fall in before their respective 
schools, where instructors will as­
sume charge and will begin the ele­
mentary instruction in the school of 
the soldier. Since it has not yet been 
possible to secure the required num­
ber of regular army men to instruct 
the students, several men from the 
various schools, who have had previ­
ous military training, will be assigned 
to take charge. The men of the vari­
ous schools will be placed under in­
structors from their own school. 
About seven hundred men have signed 
cards, stating their desire to secure 
military training. All these will be 
expected, once they begin the course 
of instruction, to stick with it, and 
absences will be noted against those 
who may fail to attend promptly and 
regularly. I11 case the weather Is too 
severe at. any time to conduct work on 
the campus, the various instructors 
will assemble their men in class 
rooms for theoretical instruction. At 
this mornings' Assembly in the Music 
Hall, the Commandant of the school 
companies was elected and this officer 
will be responsible for the proper 
handling of tho work.
The present plans contemplate the 
formation of several companies, with 
tho proper number of officers and the 
training of tho companies with regu­
lar army equipment.. Representatives 
of the Faculty have been in Washing­
ton, conferring with officials of the 
War Department, in an effort to se­
cure tho necessary arms and equip­
ment. In tho proHent condition of the 
Nation’s military establishment, with 
no definite military policy yet adopted 
by Congress, some difficulty Is to bo 
expected In securing Ihoso war ma­
terials, but it is hoped that they will 
bo forthcoming just VO soon as the 
mon have finished their Initial train­
ing in foot movements and squad evo­
lutions.
ALPHA TAU FRATERNITY 
ENJOYED BIGMNOUET
The Alpha Tau honorary fraternity 
hold a banquet Thursday, March 29, 
at the Seventh Avenue Hotel. Twen­
ty-five 'members were prostftit. The 
alumni prosont were: Koneth Jow- 
loon, ’1(1; Geo. StrahOn, '16; W. A. 
Staiz, '16; Donald R. Koontz, ’1.0; 
Roy IT. Zellman, '10; R. D. Junklns, 
'16, and faculty members, C. D. Dun- 
nells and F. J. Hartman, who acled 
as toastmaster.
A. I. E. E. ENTERTAINED 
BY LECTURE ON MOTORS
Wednesday evening, March 28. one 
of the most interesting talks of the 
school year was given to the Tech 
Branch of the A. I. E. E. by IT. D. 
James, of the Control Division of 
Westinghouse Company. Mr. James 
showed some new “wrinkles” in the 
automatic control of D. C. motors, 
pointing out that the D. C. motor is 
a hardier and more “willing brute” 
than it is usually given credit for.
The meeting was exceptionally well 
attended, a number of alumni being 
present. The Class of 1913 came in 
a body. After the meeting, the usual 
refreshments were served in the club 
room.
THEATER ASSOCIATION 
PRESENTS BENEFIT PLAY
"The Golden Apple,” a new play 
written for children by Lady Gregory, 
will be offered for the first time on 
any stage by the Pittsburgh Theater 
Association at tho Schenley Theater, 
matinee and night, Saturday, April 14.
The directors of tlie Pittsburgh 
Theater Association, recognizing that 
few plays of the highest class are of­
fered to children, have boen at some 
pains to select a play of charm and 
originality and to provide an adequate 
production.
The story of “The Golden Apple” is 
taken from the Irish Folk Lore which 
Lady Gregory has done so much to 
illumine. The plot is altogether fantas­
tic and delightful. The action of the 
(Continued on Page Two.)

---------------------------------------------------

Page Tiw,THE TARTANWednesday, April 11, 1917.
L.XIN26CA6RE GBoy S 435-5 Ave. Cop.Wm.Penn Way to Eat
Phone 9634 Grant
Sffrg ufarían
Published every Wednesday by undergraduates o£ the Carnegie 
Institute of: Technology.
Entered in the postoffice of Pittsburgh as second-class matter. 
SUBSCRIPTION BATES:
Yearly, $1.50 5c the copy Canada, $1.75
Editor-in-Chief.
Business Manager. 
Managing Editor. .
Phone Sehenlcy 9067 
Pilone Sehenlcy 9167 
Phone Schenley 9022-J
.Alfred M. Stachle, ’17
.Paul W. Emme], ’17 
,.W. H. Searight, ’17
News Editors.
J, Russell Iioxworth, '17 
Phone Schonley »031 
A, G. PGarce, '18, aBHiBtant. 
Athlctic Editor 
J. .1. Kennedy, '17 
Assistant Athlctic Editors 
J. P. Davis, '18 
P. C. Tucker, '19 
Advertising Manager 
Nelson P. Rice
Editors 
M. D. Meyerson, '19 
Suo Smith, '17 
P. H. Armor, '19 
Associate Editors 
F. C. McConnell 
H. J. Scohell, ’18 
A. J. Morris 
Ida Richter 
Circulation Manager 
R. R. Mumma, '17 
Phone Schenley 9070
TARTAN OFFICE.
Hours—4-5 P. M., School Days.
.Room 162, Design
The Edltor-in-Chiel! is responsible for policy of tills paper; the Managing 
Editor tor the make-up.
The Tartan welcomes all communications of student Interest, if signed, 
the signature to be -withheld if desired.
All business communications should be sent to the Business Manager. 
Any delay in delivery of this paper or change of address should be re­
ported to the Business Manager at once.
All news items must be in the student postofllce, Central Building, by 
Monday noon. '
PREPARATIONS FOR WAR
For more than a week now war has been no longer a possibility, 
hut a reality. In spite of that fact, matters of daily routine have con­
tinued almost as if nothing had happened. The only evidence of the 
unusual is a feeling of tension, a general attitude of expectancy. 
Everyone wonders just how long it will be until the grimness of war 
is actually felt, how long it will be until he is called upon to do his 
part in defense of the nation.
Under such circumstances the student and faculty committees on 
military affairs have been, during vacation, laying plans for a speedy 
beginning in the work of military drill. To morrow morning, if all 
goes well, will show the result of their work. Then is the time for 
every man, even if he has not signed a card supporting military train­
ing, to report for instruction. Within a very few weeks we shall see 
Congress instituting a system of compulsory military service; at that 
time any preliminary knowledge and skill will be of inestimable value 
in obtaining superior positions with higher pay and more favorable 
associations. There have been several schemes, which are as yet in- 
delinitc, proposed whereby Carnegie men might lie kept together in 
such a contingency, or at least be put to sonic superior service, per­
haps that of passing on to others the trainlWg which is now about to 
be offered. At any rate it behooves us all to get that training. Re­
member Thursday morning I
Meanwhile one wonders just where his particular ability could 
he put to the best use. Several weeks ago The Tartan published a 
clipping headed “Look for I lie Difference,” which is well worth re­
penting in part. “In your make-up, physical, mental or moral: some­
where in that which is colled your personality, there is an element of 
ability, of genius, ol! absolute greatness. There is something about 
you which is different from all other men. It may be a defect, but 
you can even make capital out of that if you go about it in the right 
way. The things in which you aro like other men won’t get you any­
where; look, for the difference—it is the cornerstone upon which you 
must build, if you build at all.”
Now more than over is the time tor each man to differentiate he- 
twoon himself and his fellows. Certainly there are few men at Tech 
who believe that they are not worth more to their country than on 
ordinary army private would be. There lie open many lines ol ser­
vice; in the army and navy, in addition to the officers positions, one 
might specialize in the aeroplane, automobile, motor boat or wireless 
(olograph divisions, the engineering corps, or the newly created mos­
quito fleet of submarine chasers; behind the lines one may serve 
equally well in the munition factories, the chemical plants, and the 
hospitals. Within the next few weeks The Tartan hopes to give— 
in a series of articles—information which will enable us to look for 
the difference, not only in ourselves, but also in the kind of servicc 
wo may render. The first ol these articles comes this week ill the 
form of a letter from Tillbrook explaining something of the nature 
of his experience in the aviation corps.
NIG FINLAY ELECTED 
BASKET BALL CAPTAIN
Immediately following the close of 
the alumni game, George E. (Nig.) 
Finlay was elected basketball captain 
for 1917, which puts Nig. at the head 
of two major sports—football and 
basketball. Finlay Is a born athlete 
and to his splendid physical prowess 
is added an aggressiveness that 
makes him a fit leader at all times. 
Only that kind of a man would be 
capable of holding two such cap­
taincies at the same time.
It was Nig. Finlay, our well-known 
printer, who upset the entire Pitt 
football team by tearing through 
that supposedly impregnable center 
position, by registering gains off 
tackles or safely rounding those 
speedy Pitt ends in that memorable 
game of last fall, a feat at which 
Berry, of Penn; McCreight, of W. ft 
J., and Rafter, of Syracuse, utterly 
failed. With the coming of basket­
ball season the versatile Nig was 
again in his element. His fine de­
fensive work at guard during the sea­
son and his good fellowship earned 
the respect and unanimous votes of 
his team-mates.
“Nig,” as Finlay is popularly called 
by his fellow-students, is a student in 
the printing department. He is 22 
years old, weighs close to 180 pound# 
and extends upward 5 feet 11 inches 
from the ground. During his Prep, 
days Finlay played football and bas­
ketball, pitched for the baseball nine, 
and was a shot-putter on the track 
team. He has confined his athletic 
activities to football and basketball 
since coming to Tech, or it is possible 
that he might have garnered more 
honors.
Although captain of two teams, per­
haps, if not probably there will be no 
teams to captain because of the war. 
Graduate Manager Gearhart has an­
nounced that Tech will sit tight and 
await developments. At any event, 
let us hope that the coming basket­
ball schedule will be played,-for with 
the entire veteran basketball squad in­
tact, even to Captain Green, next 
year Carnegie Institute of Technology 
should have the best season of its his­
tory.
given way in part to military drill. 
One of the regiments of the national 
guard called out this week, the Sefcond 
regiment of the New Jersey guard, 
has one company from here which in­
cludes about 20 undergraduates and 
seven or eight graduate students.
SYMPHONY ORCHESTRA 
GIVES FOURTH CONCERT
Next in Series of Seven Per­
formances Will Be on 
Friday Afternoon
THE ALL-SCHOOLS CONSTITUTION
The constitution providing for a central council of the four 
schools failed to pass the Industries Assembly in the form proposed 
by the constitution committee, although it was ratified by the assem­
blies of the other three schools. Consequently unless the facts of the 
ease are set before the student body, there is danger of a misunder­
standing which would defeat the very purpose for which the council 
is proposed. It must be understood that the Industries School did not 
in any way object to the council or to the main features 'of the con­
stitution, but were forced to reject the whole because of one or two 
minor points. As we understand it, the chief basis for discussion was 
the personnel of the executive committee, which is to decide matters 
that arise during those times when a quorum of the council cannot be 
assembled. As the constitution now stands that committee consists 
of the presidents of the central council, of the student activities board, 
and of the athletic association. Consequently—and this is the point 
at issue—the committee might be composed of men from only one 
school; even at best all four schools could not be represented among 
the three members. It is very evident that, the school which would 
have representation/least often would be the Margaret Morrison 
School. These arguments for a change in this feature of the proposed 
plan were, therefore, the chief reason for its failure to be unanimously 
approved.
It is earnestly to be desired that; these rather minor differences 
of opinion may be adjusted as speedily as possible. Every day makes 
more apparent the need for some such central organization; the prog­
ress of military affairs, for example, has been seriously hampered. 
Indeed up to the institution of general assemblies there could have 
been no true action of the student body as a whole, and even now 
such action is-slow and difficult to obtain. The central council is 
badly needed.
MANY COLLEGES BEGIN
ACTIVE MILITARY WORK
(Continued From Page One.) 
Woodrow Wilson, in Washington, by 
his daughters, Miss Margaret Wilson 
and Mrs. Frances Sayre, both gradu­
ates of Goucher College. The resolu­
tions tender the loyal service of the 
institutions represented. They are 
signed not only by the presidents of 
the colleges as individuals, but were 
adopted in each case by vote of the 
faculties.
The resolutions were signed by the 
following:
President Henry MacCracken, Vas­
sal1; President Marion L. Burton 
Smith; President Ellen F. Pendleton. 
Wellesley; President M. Carey Thom­
as, Bryn Mawr; President Mary E. 
Woolley, Mt. Holyoke; President Wil­
liam Gutli, Goucher; President De­
baron it. Briggs, Rad cliff e; Dean Vir­
ginia Gildersleeve, Barnard; Dean 
Lida F. King, Women’s College of 
Brown University.
The announcement is accompanied 
by a statement of "President Mac­
Cracken, emphasizing the stand of 
I he college women as opposed to that 
of "do-nothing pacifists, who are at­
tempting to make a stir at Washing­
ton," the woman's peace party aiul 
the Emergency Peace Federation.
PITT
The School of Dentistry of the Uni­
versity of Pittsburgh will examine 
and treat the teeth of all applicants 
for enlistment in the Navy who re­
quire dental services and cannot af­
ford to pay for t»>em, according to a 
letter received yesterday by Lieut. 
J. B. pidendorf, in charge of the 
Navy recruiting station, from Dr. 
H. E. Friesell, dean of the depart­
ment. Recruiting officers expect the 
offer of the school to materially in­
crease the number of enlistments, as 
bad teeth prevent a large number of 
applicants from being accepted into 
the regular service.
PRINCETON
Princeton’s military preparedness 
has been going on apace, with drilling 
two hours a day three days a week for 
about 1,000 men. Academic work has
The Symphony Orchestra Concert 
j given in the theater of the School 
of Applied Design, Sunday evening, 
March 25, was the fourth in the se­
ries of seven, scheduled for this de­
partment and was by all odds the 
most popular, as attested by an un­
usually large and representative aud­
ience.
The crowd was so great, it be­
came necessary to seat the over- 
floAv in the foyer.
The program was well chosen 
both for balance and interest. The 
opening number, the always accept­
able "Egmont” Overture, Beethoven, 
was well received, the attack being 
sure and the body of tone full and 
clean.
The Weber “Konzerstuck,” F min­
or (for piano and orchestra), brought 
forward Miss Adele Henning, as solo­
ist, who did some very brilliant play­
ing in the "Presto” movement and 
elicited very full, rich tone from 
her instrument in the slower move­
ments, at no instant allowing her 
themes to be submerged by the or­
chestral accompaniment. This num­
ber was most cordially received.
The second part of the program 
opened with Gounod’s Ballet music 
from “Faust” which brought forth 
rounds of well-merited applause. The 
“Adagio,” “No. 1 Allegretto”, the 
“Moderato” and “No. 6 Allegretto,” 
were especially noticeable for ex­
cellent ensemble—a solidly welded 
body of tone in the heavier move­
ments and considerable style and 
brilliancy in the lighter numbers.
Grieg’s “Letzer Fruhling” (for 
String Orchestra), was given with 
great delicacy and charm and was 
—in a purely musical sense—the 
really lovely number on the program. 
The shadings were very finely drawn. 
Its place on the program, between 
the “Faust” Ballet Music and the 
Grand Fantasia “Pagliacci,” threw 
it into very high relief. It was given 
with more artistic finish than most 
of the other numbers.
If the orchestra shows any special 
weakness, it is in the wood-winds 
and brasses—a certain liesitency in 
places; which detracts from that per­
fection which complete satisfaction 
demands—but orchestras, like Rome, 
are not.built in a day; the marvel is, 
that/ with the essentially changing 
personel of a student organization, 
such satisfying results can be 
achieved. It says inucli for the earn­
est work of the students and for 
the optimistic perseverence of the di­
rector, Mr. O’Brien. The only re­
gret is, that it is not possible to 
hear this organization more fre­
quently in concert programs.
The fifth concert Is to be given this 
Friday, April 13, at <1:30. The whole 
series of seven either have been given 
or will be given as follows: Jan. 19,
Fob. 11, Mar. 2, Mar. 25, Apr. 13, May 
G, May 25.
Bill in Kansas state legislature ap­
propriates $5,000 for the relief of 
sick bees. None of the bees we’ve 
ever encountered has bpen sick; at 
least, not in the sting.—Wex Jones, 
in Chicago Examiner.
And; in this big world of little 
things | Ach human life has its share 
to provide.
EiSJSMSMSMSMSMSMSMS/SMSMSMSMSEMODERN DANCES |
EClasses and Private n
R.E.JAQUES j
S FORBES and CRAIG STREETS 1
I I| PITTSBURGH ^
8 E
nJMSMSMSMciMMSMSMMSMSMSMSJSMSJ
S:
TYPEWRITERS RENTED
Late Models. Three months for $7.00. Special 
rates to students. GUARANTEED FACTORY 
REBUILT MACHINES.
American Writing Machine 
Company
PITTSBURGH BRANCH, 630 PENN AVENUE 
Bell Phone Grant 1374
THEATER ASSOCIATION j 
PRESENTS BENEFIT PLAY
(Continued From Page One.) 
play takes place in the Enchanted 
Garden of a Witch, in the Palace of 
the King of Ireland, and in the Castle 
of a Giant. The people of the play are 
those delightful figures of Irish myth­
ology, the Witch, the Giant, the 
Witch’s Daughter, the King of Ireland, 
his heroic son, and , the beautiful 
daughter of the King of Spain.
The theme of the play concerns the 
quest of “The Golden Apple,” growing 
in the Enchanted Garden of the Witch, 
for which the son of the King of Ire­
land searches for a year and a day in 
order that it may cure his father’s 
ills. The play follows the young man 
throughout all the exploits and. mis­
haps of the road to a happy conclu­
sion.
Particular significance is accorded 
to this play through the fact that one- 
half of the proceeds will be donated 
to the Fund for the Relief of Belgian 
Children, ^hus a play written for 
Irish childrenT and produced for Pitts­
burgh children, Will be of some little 
service in the relief of the unhappy 
children of Belgium.
fSMSMSMSMSMSMSMSJcHSMS/SMSMSMcl
Pierpont. Siviter & Co.,
ENGRAVING PRINTING
LITHOGRAPHING EMBOSSING 
Engraved Calling Cards 
Wedding Invitations 
Announcements
Dance Programs 
Phone 358 Hiland.
119 SHADY AVENUE
ENTERPRISE CLEANING CO.
CLEANERS AND DYER8 
Perfect Work In Ladles', Children'» 
and Household Work. 
Oriental Rugs and Draperies p
Specialty
401 EAST END TRUST BUILDING 
PITTSBURGH 
Phones: Office 449 Hiland 
Works 4912 Hiland.
MILTALRY1
HARDWARE CO. |
Hardware and £ 
House-Furnishing Goods 
3606 FORBES ST. | 
Pittsburgh, Pa. ?
TYPEWRISIND Talk
A student with college spirit wants to see his 
College paper the equal or superior of other college 
papers. For him to merely sit by and let the other 
fellow work will not accomplish this.
The success of a college daily depends as much 
upon the ability of the management to get in 
“money” as it does upon the editorial staff to fill 
up the news columns.
Only so long as the students read the advertise­
ments and do their buying from the firms that ad­
vertise, only so long as they do this, can The Tartan 
hope to be a financial success.
X
TYPEWlO4 PENCIL
NO MATTER WHAT COURSE
YOU’RE TAKING YOU NEED
THIS FAMOUS PENCIL!
. Because of the superla- 
Bk tive quality of material 
f \ and workmanship, VENUS 
/ _ \ is admittedly the finest 
pencil it is possible to 
make.
If. you like a thick soft 
lead that marks so that 
you can read the writing 
half way across the room, 
choose the soft degrees 6B—5B— 
4B.
Fort short-hand notes or easy 
writing 3B—2B—B (medium soft) 
are popular.
For sketching, general writ­
ing purposes, etc. HB---F—H 
—2H (medium) will prove 
desirable.
For ' drafting, a medium 
hard pencil gives the best re­
sults and you’ll like 
3H—4H—5H—GH.
For very thin, narrow lines 
for extremely accurate graphical 
charts, maps, details, etc., 7H—8H 
—9H are available, rprr Look for the distinctive 
lULLwater mark finish on each of 
the 17 black degrees and hard 
and medium copying. Your 
professors will confirm these 
statements as to ‘the merits 
of VENUS pencils.
For sale at the college 
book store.
American Lead Pencil Co. 
215 Fifth Ave., Dept. G, N. Y.
Note: Send us
your name and ad- 
dress and we shall 
pleased to have 
sent to
drawing
pencils, VENUS copying pencil and 
VENUS Eraser FREE!
THE ONLY AMERICAN SHOE £ 
SHOP IN OAKLAND 1
Wear-Well
Shoe Shop
Between Fifth and Forbes on 
Oakland Avenue
ÍSM3MSMSM2MSM3ÍSM3M3M3JSMSM3/2J-' 
GET YOUR HAIR CUT ^ 
--------at the------—TECH BARBER SHOP
Nearest to Tech 
COR. CRAIG AND FORBES 
FRED FARGEL, Proprietor
Our convenient location in Oakland: 
enables us to give you excellent: 
service. Cleaning and pressing done- 
on short notice. Special service to-- 
fraternities and rooming houses. Let: 
us have a trial order. Call Schenley 
875.
J. E. T. SHUMAN, 
3911 Forbes Streets
CHURCHES
East End Christian Church
SOUTH HIGHLAND AND ALDER
The Live Church
All young men invited to A. R- 
Hamilton’s Class. All young women- 
to H. C. Young’s Class.
Take Shady or Highland Park cars.- 
to Alder street.
JOHN R. EWERS, Minister 
(University of Chicago.)
ThIWY UNIREY 
PWESbyREWIaN ChuWch
8hady and Northumberland Avenuefc, 
Graded Sunday School 9:45 A. M.
Preaching Services, 11:00 A.M. and; 8:00 P. M.
Young People's Service, 7:00 P. M. 
Brief and Warm-Hearted Messages., 
A cordial welcome to all.
ROBERT B. MILLER, D.D., 
Pastor
ST. PAUL'S CATHEDRAL, 
Fifth Avenue and Craig Street.
Masses: 6:30, 8:00, 9:00, 10:00.' 
and 11:00 a. m. on Sundays and'. 
Holy Days.
Vespers on Sundays at 7:30 p.. 
m. Parish Hall and Gymnasium,. 
Craig street.
GWacE REfoWmEY ChuWch
(The Church Beautiful) 
DITHRIDGE AND BAYARD STS. 
FREDERICK C. NAU, Minister. 
Bible Classes at 9:45, Morning Wor­
ship at 11, Evening -Services at 7:45^,' 
Christian Endeavor at 7.
Bright, Popular Evening Services. 
Sermons for head and heart. 
Students Heartily Invited.
Shadyside Presbyterian 
Church
AMBERSON, Near Fifth.
DR. HUGH THOMSON KERR 
(The Nearest Church) 
MORNING AND EVENING 
WORSHIP, 11 A. M., 8 P. M.
AT 9:45 O’CLOCK 
Young Men’s Bible Class 
Mr. Harry Calvert 
Attorney-at-Law 
Men’s Bible Class 
Prof. William R. Farmer 
Western Theological Seminary 
Margaret Morrison Class 
Mrs. Frederick B. Shipp 
Women's Bible Class 
Mr. George M. Kirk
The Church of 
The Ascension
Ellsworth Avenue and Neville Street. 
DR. WYATT BROWN, Rector. 
Sunday Services, 11:00 A. M. and, 
7:45 P. M. Splendid lc, short: 
sermon*.

---------------------------------------------------

Wednesday, April 11, 1917.^HE TAETANPage 1.
A Typewriter Exceptional
FoW CollEDIaNS 
ChaNDE youW RypE IN aN INSRaNR fWom oNE 
SRylE Ro aNoRhEW—oW aNy laNDuaDE.
THE
MULTIPLEX
HAMMOND
Two sets of type in each machine. 
“Jn*t Turn the Knob” Presto one or the other 
Simple—Compact—Portable 
Beautiful work—beyond compare. 
If not inclined to a new- n.achine, 
inquire for our Factory Rebuilts.
We Rent Machines of high quality. 
Patrons: President Woodrow Wilson Cardinal Merry del Val 
Dr. Alexander Graham Bell Chancellor Rev. B. G. Trant 
Bishop John G. Murray 
William Dean Howells 
also all Colleges and Universities 
Our special terms to collegians will 
interest you. Catalog for the asking.
Hammond Typewriter Co.
A 545 East 69th Street »
^ New York Ci y. N. Y.
BESSEMER BLDG., PITTSBURGH
GORDON-aJjrVi."ARROW
form"fit COLLAR
J J ciforòOc
CLUETT,PEABODY ß-CO. ///¿MAKERS
^JS/SMSSiSMSMSMSMSMSMMSMSMSJSJ
W. 0. Breckon
STUDIOS
FORBES AND ATWOOD STS.
Phones 160—3161 Schenley 
SPECIAL PRICES TO TECH 
STUDENTS
IMSMSMSJSMaMSMSMSJ
LIbEWRy ClEaNIND 
aNY PWESSIND Co.
301 SOUTH CRAIG STREET 
Corner of Wlnthrop Street 
Bell Phone Schenley 309 
GOODS CALLED FOR AND 
DELIVERED
MNGBEBSHLUYIRM
' COMMERCIAL PHOTOGRAPHER \ 
f WOODCUTS, ZINC ETCHING.IIALF-TONE\_Bollirne ENGRAVER stass:1)!
FLOWERS for all OCCASIONS
RANDOLPH & McCLEMENTS
FLORAL EXPERTS 
5936 PENN AVENUE 
Near Highland Avenue
aracgj
jSMBIB15/SJ5jSI5J5M5JS]5®5/5JSI5M5®5JSj5/5I 
WEBER EXPRESS AND § 
8TORAGE COMPANY | 
Bell Phone 239 Schenley. 
Moving, Packing and Storing j|] 
of Furniture and Pianos. Gen- ¡g 
eral Hauling Baggage to and DJj 
from Depots. s
4616-18-20 HENRY STREET | 
PITTSBURGH I
, Do Business by Mail *
It's profitable, with accurate lists of pros­
pects. Our catalogue contains vital informa­
tion on Mail Advertising. Also prices und 
quantity on 6,000 notional muiliug lists, 99% i 
guaranteed. Such gs:
War Material Mfrs. Wealthy Men
Chccsu liox Mfrs. Axle Grease Mfrs.
Shoo Retailors Auto Owners
Contractors Tin Can Mfrs.
Druggists Farmers, Etc.
Write for this valuable reference book; also £ 
prices and samples of fac-similé letters.
' Have us tvriie or reviscyour Sales Loiters. 
Row-GoulJ, ] 19 K Olive St.Ross-Gould
PROFESSOR AUDE TELLS 
OF SUMMER TRAINING
Mailing.isttsS. St.Louis
Professor Aude, when interviewed 
by a Tartan representative in regard 
to the Civilian Training Cruise and 
the Naval Reserve Corps, gave out 
some very interesting side lights on 
the service and the cruise.
The vNaval Reserve Force was cre­
ated by an Act of Congress, August 29, 
1916. The purpose in establishing the 
Naval Reserve Force was “to system­
atically enroll those citizens of the 
United States whose experience or 
qualifications, together with some 
training, would fit them for service in 
the Navy.” This Reserve Force is di­
vided into six classes, but only three 
may be of interest to Tech students.
That class wlicli should be of 
greater interest to Tech students is 
“The Naval Coast Defense Reserve.” 
This class includes those men who are 
capable of performing special useful 
service in defence of the coast. Those 
students that are . skilled in the man­
agement and operation of power boats, 
who have had experience as radio 
operators or as electricians, and those 
skilled in mechanical arts should en­
roll in this class, for they will be of 
better service to their country in this 
class than elsewhere. Moreover, no 
previous experience on the water is 
prerequisite for enrollment in this 
class. The Naval Coast Reserve should 
attract, also, those graduates or under­
graduates, who “because of adminis­
trative, scientific or executive experi­
ence are capable of performing useful 
service in connection with the supply, 
inspection, intelligence and communi­
cation of the Navy.”
Perhaps there are some students 
that are interested in aviation. The 
division known as “The Naval Flying 
Corps” would be of interest to these. 
This class consists of graduates of the 
Aeronautic School, and civilians 
trained in the flying of aircraft, or in 
their design, building, or operation.
Professor Aude was a member of a 
class known as “The Volunteer Naval 
Reserve,” which is composed of men 
who agree to serve in the Naval Re­
serve without retainer pay. These 
men are not obliged to serve the full 
period of enrollment, the minimum of 
which is three months, to be taken in 
periods of not less than three weeks 
each.
When the reservist first enrolls he 
is given a provisional rank or rating 
and after hit full period has been 
served, this rank or rating may be con­
firmed. All reservists, upon first en­
rolling, receive retainer pay of $12.00 
a year. When they are confirmed in 
their ranks or rating, they receive, as 
retainer pay, per year, two months' 
base pay of the corresponding rank or 
rate in the Navy. Of course, this does 
not apply to the men in the Volunteer 
Naval Reserve, who are paid only for 
all active duty performed.
When first reporting for duty in the 
Reserve Force, officers receive a uni 
form gratuity of $50.00, and men 
$30.00. In time of war this allowance 
is increased. In time of peace, when 
no national emergency exists, men 
shall be discharged upon their own 
request, upon reinbursing the Govern- 
men for any clothing gratuity received. 
For further information concerning 
the Naval Service, one should address 
The Naval Training Association, 31 
Nassau street, New York City.
In speaking of his experience as a 
volunteer on the “Rhode Island” last 
summer, Professor Aude related many 
interesting “yarns,” all of which 
would be repeated now but for lack of 
space. Each illustrated his point that 
the Navy was an excellent means for 
the eradication of desultory and slug­
gish habits, for the cultivation of dis­
cipline and obedience, and for the 
training of thoroughness in action.
Most of the men on the cruise were 
college men and thought that “Field 
Day” would mean lots of sport. Bjit 
when the "General Field Day” came, 
the men learned that it meant general 
housecleaning. As the professor said, 
everything had to be scoured and 
cleaned "to the nth power.” All the 
brass and paint work had to be 
cleaned and the decks rubbed with 
holystone. This was all in prepara­
tion for the captain’s inspection.
The men did not work all the time, 
for there were frequent baseball,games 
on shore; there were many opportuni­
ties for swimming, and frequently 
there were “movies” in the evening.
The Volunteers were trained in in­
fantry tactics and were taught to 
shoot 3 and 6-inch guns. During the 
third week of the cruise, target prac­
tice was held at Tangier Island and 
the men on the “Rhode Island” made 
a score of 35 hits out of 60 shots. This 
was a commendable showing, consider­
ing the fact that all the guns were 
manned by Volunteers. The Volun­
teers’ showed their abilities in more 
ways than this and at one time exacted 
a compliment from Assistant Secretary 
of the Navy Roosevelt.
Professor Aude was captain of a gun 
crew on the “Rhode Island,” which was 
the flagship of Rear-Admiral Helm. 
Admiral Helm was in charge of the 
“Red” (defending) fleet in tlfe war 
manouevers that were held during the 
second week of the, cruise. Incidental­
ly, the "Red” fleet was "annihilated” 
by the attacking "Blue” fleet. The 
War game was supplemented by daily 
lectures on each ship and the different 
moves of each fleet were explained in 
detail to the men.
Professor Aude emphasized the fact 
that much more training is needed 
than that acquired in a few short 
weeks, to fit a man, however educated 
he may be, to assume a position of re­
sponsibility in the Navy. One may fit
himself for such a position only by 
constantly working hard for years.
Professor Aude declared himself to 
be heartily in favor of the Tartan’s 
campaign for preparedness at Tech. 
“I can see no reason,” he said, “why a 
small portion of patriots should be 
obliged to defend the homes and inter­
ests of those who had not enough in­
terest in the welfare of the nation to 
prepare to defend her.” A few weeks’ 
experience in the Navy teaches one to 
respect those who are serving the na­
tion on the sea and gives him an in­
sight into the needs of the nation.
FINE ARTS DEPARTMENT 
IS GIVING LECTURES
Mr. MacNeil Gave Lecture 
on Sculpture—Three More 
Lectures and Three Exhi­
bitions Are Planned
During the months of March and 
April, three exhibitions are to be pre­
sented and four lectures delivered as 
part of the activities of the Depart­
ment of Fine Arts, under the super­
vision of John W. Beatty, Director. 
The first of these informal addresses 
was delivered Friday, March 2, on 
the subject of Sculpture, by Mr. I-Ier- 
mon a MacNeil. Mr. MacNeil is one 
of the able sculptors of our time, the 
author of “Sun Vow,” an Indian sub­
ject, and of a statue of George Wash­
ington, recently unveiled in Washing­
ton Square, New York. Mr. MacNeil’s 
lecture was the third and last of a 
series, of which the first was given in 
the Gallery of Paintings by Mr. George 
de Forest Brush, and the second in the 
Hall of Architecture by Mr. Ralph 
Adams Cram. Mr. Cram also addressed 
the students of the Department of Ar­
chitecture in the Design School.
The remaining three of the four lec­
tures which have been announced are 
to be delivered on the subject of 
“Modern Art,” by Robert B. I-Iarslie, 
Assistant Director of the Department 
of Fine Arts. Friday, March 9, 
his subject was “The Art of Scan- 
danavia and Russia”; Friday, March 
23, “American Paintings”; Friday, 
April 20, “American Sculptors.” These 
lectures will be illustrated by lantern 
slides, and are open to the general 
public.
An exhibition of paintings by Ig­
nacio Zuloaga, the Spanish painter 
whose work has recently’ commanded 
unusual attention, was presented 
from March 5 through March 29. An 
exhibition by the New Hope group of 
painters, including Lathrop, Garber, 
Rosen, Spencer, Colt, and Bredin, 
was presented from March 5 through 
March 28. An important ezhibition of 
early English portraits, together with 
a few early English landscapes, from 
the private collection of Mr. John Me- 
Fadden of Philadelphia, will be pre­
sented from April 26 through June 30, 
This last exhibition will be opened to 
the public following the Founders’ 
Day exercises on the afternoon of 
April 26.
MEXICAN DIPLOMAT 
ADDRESSES INDUSTRIES
The Hon. Emeterlo De La Larga de­
livered an interesting address to' the 
students of the School of Applied In­
dustries at the assembly, Wednesday, 
March 21. This was follojwed by an­
other, Tuesday, March 23, to which 
he gave some time to questions of the 
students.
Senor De La Larga is a lawyer who 
has devoted his whole life to the in­
terests of his people. He was a mem­
ber of the Mexican Chamber of Depu­
ties for twelve years, and at different 
periods connected with the govern­
ments of Diaz, De La Barra, Maclero 
and Huerta, so long as they stood for 
national principles. Consequently, *he 
is in a position to discuss the vital 
problems confronting ’the people of 
Mexico at the present day.
Senor De La Larga explained his 
solution of the problem, through land 
reform, education of the masses and 
immigration. But especial emphasis 
was laid on the fact that Mexico 
needs the financial assistance and the 
co-operation of the government of the 
United States. Moreover, the United 
States owes this, assistance, not mere­
ly from the standpoint of sentiment, 
but as a business interest and as a 
duty to the nations of the world. His 
address ended with an appeal to the 
students as citizens of the United 
States and future leaders of industry, 
to do all in their power to promote a 
basis of mutual understanding and 
harmony - between their own nation 
and the people of Mexico.
SCIENCE SCHOOL GIVES
DESK TO DEAN LEETE
(Continued from page One.) 
reality a history of the school, the 
two being so closely related as to be 
almost inseparable*.
Dean Leete, in response, said that 
his leaving the campus would not. 
mean a loss of interest in “Dear Old 
Tech," but would rather be a means 
of his entering even more closely, in 
a different capacity, into student ac­
tivities. He explained the difficulty, 
at times, of being the "personification 
of law and order," confessing what all 
Science men have long suspected— 
that he relishes “a little nonsense 
now and then,” and will in future 
laugh with them, instead of repri­
manding them.
SECOND IN SERIES
Of MILITARY LESSONS
(Continued from Page One) 
tion in military affairs, and one of the 
cardinal principles of military discip­
line is the respect for the person and 
office of a sentinel, which is strictly 
enjoined by military law. The office 
of sentinel is one of the most impor­
tant in the entire military establish­
ment, because upon the vigilance and 
fidelity of the sentinels depends the 
safety and life of their comrades. In 
former years, when one considered 
the subject of Guard Duty in its en­
tirety. Interior and Exterior guards 
were treated, but in the modern reg­
ulations the subject of exterior guard 
duty comes more properly in the study 
of Field Service Regulations, under 
the head of Service of Security and 
Information. Interior guard duty is 
confined more strictly to the fixed 
post sentinels, which are used to 
guard the individual units comprising 
the larger portions of an Army. A 
knowledge of the fundamental prin­
ciples of guard duty is absolutely 
necessary to constitute a good soldier. 
Every man in the army, from the 
humblest private to the highest rank­
ing Major General, has, at one time 
in his career, marched on guard and 
walked his guard tour.
In studying the “Manual of Interior 
Guard Duty” there are but few ampli­
fications necessary, because the Man­
ual itself covers the subject in a very 
explicit fashion. The student to 
whom the subject is entirely unfa­
miliar should remember that interior 
guards are placed in camps and bar­
racks for the purpose of protecting 
property, preventing disorder, and in 
times of war guarding troops against 
surprise and attacks of the enemy. 
As a general proposition, each com­
pany supplies a certain number of 
men each day for guard duty. These 
men are assembled in a special cere: 
mony which is known as Guard Mount­
ing, and after being inspected by the 
post Adjutant, are turned over to the 
Officer of the Day, who is an officer 
selected from the officers of his com­
mand to have charge of the post for 
one particular day. After guard 
mounting the guard is divided into re­
liefs in charge of corporals and these 
reliefs, composed of privates of the 
guard, perform their tours of duty, 
dividing the day into equal intervals, 
so that each relief will perform its 
equal portion.
It is reiterated that the subject of 
guard duty is vitally important- be­
cause upon the guard’s vigilance and 
readiness for action depend not only 
the enforcement of military law and 
order, but the safety and protection of 
the post, the quelling of sudden dis­
order and perhaps even mutiny. The 
great importance of guard duty Is in­
creased in time of war because then 
the very safety of the army depends 
upon the vigilance of the; sentinels, 
who must watch that their comrades 
may sleep and refresh themselves 
after the labors of the ,day. Sentinels 
on post are of Lon invested with grave 
.responsibility, and the military law 
protects them fully in the discharge 
of their duty. Anyone who molests 
or interferes with sentinels thus em­
ployed, becomes liable to .severe pen­
alty. In respect to the duties with 
which lie. Is charged, a sentinel repre­
sents the supreme military authority 
of the command to which ho belongs, 
whose orders he must enforce on or 
in the vicinity of his post. While on 
duly he is entitled to the rospoct and 
obedience of all porsons who come 
within the scope of operation of his 
orders, whether these persons be en­
listed men or officers. The authority 
of the sentinel over all grades of mil­
itary persons is absolute, and any dis­
obedience of his orders on the part of 
such persons constitute a most serious 
miliiary offense and is prejudicial in 
the highest degree to the interests of 
discipline.
TECH MAN LEARNS
FLYING INIU. S. ARMY
(Continued From Page One.l 
the student, who follows the instruc­
tor in the motions of the controls, 
since the controls for each seat move 
together.
The first ride you are given is a sort 
of “joy ride,” to show you just how 
stable is the aeroplane and what can 
lie done with it. My ride consisted of 
climbing to about 5,000 feet, below 
which it is rather unsafe to do stunts. 
Then, after “looping the loop,” we did 
a “stall,” which consists in starting a 
dive with the power on, just as in 
"¡Doping the loop.” Turning the nose 
of the machine upwrards, the flyers 
throttle the motor down and the plane 
is “stalled” while inclined at a steep 
angle. The machine then slides back­
ward, tail first, in a “tail slide,” and is 
brought level again by the tail sur-. 
faces. The weight of the engine low-1 
ers the nose of the machine and ft 
starts forward again in another dive. 
The engine is accelerated to full speed 
again, and ordinary- flight resumed. 
The drop in the last half of the "stall” 
Is from 400 to 600 feet. Some sensa­
tion the first time, but it had no 111 
effects upon me. I appreciated for 
the first time what lack of gravity 
would mean, for that condition ap­
proaches between you and the ma­
chine.
Another peculiar sensation is going 
toward earth at about 150 miles an 
hour In a steep spiral. After the first 
trip you realize that an aeroplane is a 
very stable machine. Flying, as we 
have, in strong winds gives this im­
pression also. Although it is rough 
and you are tossed about somewhat,
*x~:
i#tI
"A NATIONAL INSTITUTION"
Browning, King & Co.
CLOTHING, FURNISHINGS AND HATS 
FOR MEN, BOYS AND CHILDREN 
439-441 WOOD 8TREET 
:«.:^«X~X*<**X*<~X~XmXmX**X»*X‘*X***X**X»*X"X,»X»<«X~X*Xm&
-7!lEYERIEk’S.
THE HOUSE OF SERVICE
ALL VICTOR RECORDS, EVERY DAY
And the 
Victrola to 
Play Them on
635-37 Smithfield St., PITTSBURGH
mira
Oakland Savings & Trust Co.
“THE OAKLAND BANK”
CAPITAL,
SURPLUS,
DEPOSITS OVER $3,000,000.00
$200,000.00 
$200,000.00 "À
SAFE DEPOSIT BOXES FOR RENT
McDOLIGALL DANCING STUDIOS
SHADY AND PENN AVENUES EAST LIBERTY
Beginners’ Classes: Monday and Thursday
Advanced Classes: Monday, Thursday and Saturday
4616 FORBES STREET OAKLAND
Beginners’ Classes: Tuesday
Beginners’ and Advanced Classes: Friday
One-step Club Dance, Saturday Evenings. 8:30 to 11:00 
SATURDAY EVENING SOCIAL CLUB DANCE
TUBTBON 10 LESSONS $3.00
the machine is easily controlled. On 
going up, you cannot tell/ when you 
leave the ground if the fielcl is smooth. 
Of course you cannot hear when the 
engine is running and the wind is 
strong, but there are no other indica­
tions of what speed you are traveling, 
except when you pass close to an­
other machine or object. The average 
speed in flying at this altitude is 75 to 
80 miles per hour in these 100 H. P. 
machines. They use from nine to 
ten gallons of gasoline per hour in 
continuous flight.
The instructors are paid by the I 
hour for their trouble, at $10 per, 1 
while the students pay $1 a minute j 
for value received. In my case, of 
course; the government pays this.
Doan Leete, one cannot beliove the 
beauty of any land until it Is viewed 
from about 3,000 to 5.000 feet above. 
The sensation of dizziness never once 
occurs to you, when looking down 
from such a height, for it Is just like 
looking out of a window of a tall 
building, except that you feel even 
more secure and with less wondering 
as to what would happen if you were 
to jump.
Good Clothes 
Cheaper
<Wo$£Pl
Clothiers, Tailors, 
Hatters, Furnishers
504-506 Federal Stroet, 
North Sido
I hope Mrs. Leete and your son are 
in the best of health and would appre­
ciate being remembered to them. Al­
so to my friends on the faculty and 
around school.
I remain your friend,
GILMORE L. TILLBROOK.

---------------------------------------------------

FourTHE TARTANWednesday, April 11, 1917.
Page
aniiiiwiiiiiiiiiirairaiiniiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiitiiirairiiiiniiiniiiiiiiiiinniiiiffliiniiiraiiniii
“ONE DOLLAR THE BOX”
IIIIIIMlllllllllllllillBilllllllilliilllllilllSllllilllillillllllf
1916 was the Ban­
ner Year in the sale 
of R. V. B. Choco­
lates.
It was far in the 
lead in all Points 
from which a Box of 
Chocolates could be 
judged.
SALES
QUALITY
APPEARANCE
S!STUDENT LUNCHEON 
Milk or Coffee, 5c
Pie, 5c per cut 
Hot Chocolate, 10c 
Ham or Cheese Sandwich, 5c
Rolls and Butter, 5c 
Ice Cream, 10c 
THE HALLER BAKERY 
3610 FORBES STREET 
Iroquois Blc^Ck.
STUTRF
The Personal Writing Machine 
So simple in construction 
and operation that any­
one can use it without 
previous experience. : :
WEIGHS 6 POUNDS 
Price $50
Call 343 Court or Write
Standard Typewriter Co.
129 FIFTH AVENUE 
FREE DEMONSTRATION
ttmmmmmmmmnmmmmmmmq
MELLON 
NATIONAL 
BANK
PITTSBURGH
510-5 4 Smithfield St. 
40-413 Fifth Ave. 
406-410 Oliver Ave.
Capital . . . $6,000,000
Resources Over $ 100,000,000
ADVERTISE AND GET RESULTS
SEcoNY SRoWy MoWWy”
Announces His 
Annual Style Display 
THURSDAY, April 12 
4 P. M.
In Men’s Dormitory
It costs me about $25,000 
less per year to do busi­
ness on the second 
floor than if I was 
downstairs, and when 
I tell you I can save you 
about $10.00 with my 
$15 and $20 clothes 
IT LOOKS REASONABLE, 
DON’T IT?
We also have Full Dress 
and Tuxedoes to sell 
and rent.
GOLDMAN’S CLOTH SHOP
Entire Second Floor 
241 FIFTH AVENUE
! end of the department.
| Doherty, the classy shortstop, is 
back, and so is Red Yeager, the third 
baseman. Butch Lundell, Saclis, Ma­
son, Shorty Miller are out. It is too 
early to get a line on the new ma­
terial and Coach McCullough is not 
venturing his opinion on the team.
Manager Jack Kennedy has ar­
ranged a good schedule, with eight 
home games. On May 4, Western Re­
serve team from Cleveland, plays 
here. The next home game is on 
May 15, with Dick Guy’s Pittsburgh 
Collegians; then May 19, Penn State, 
and on May 24, the famous Michigan 
Aggies come here. This is the first 
time Tech has ever met this team. 
On May 30, our rivals across the way 
play us. June 11, W. &, J. journeys 
here, followed by Lehigh University.
01 Tup ISvyic.n Camisa o
IIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIÜIIIIIIIIIIIIIII
GENERAL H. L. SCOTT PRAISES YALE SPIRIT
The organization of any fighting 
force must be supplemented by pro­
viding a continuous supply of ma­
terial for trained officers.
The history of the organization of 
the Federal armies at the beginning 
of the Civil War gives us the results 
of a lack of military preparedness in 
a total absence of trained officers at 
the outbreak of war and to this more 
than to any other’ causes is attri­
buted the lack of decisive results by 
the Union armies during the first 
two years of the great struggle. And 
in this day and generation u con­
tinuation of this defect might result 
in irreparable disaster.
'Phe present war in Europe has 
given a lesson to the world In the 
effects of this deficiency In the diffi­
culties experienced by the British in 
the Wostern and the Russians in the 
Eastern theatres of operation in as­
suring el (.her a proper degree of 
training for troops at. the front or of 
providing them with capable lead­
ers.
During the years 1905-1915, Inclu­
sive, there were graduated 4-1,529 
students from colleges and universi­
ties ill; which there was a course of 
military Instruction and at which an 
officer of the army was (letailed for 
lb»' »pacific purpose of giving In­
struction. Of Ibis number, about 1,- 
100 were listed by the War Depart­
ment as suitable for commissions, 
during the preceding five years, or 
about one graduate out of every 15 
for these years, an average of only 
220 men a year for a reserve of 
officers for the regular army and for 
any volunteer forces, and only a 
very small fractional per cent, of 
the number that would ho absolutely 
necessary In any national emergency
¦a disheartening return when bal­
anced against the expense.
While our deficiencies Avere Avell 
known to all officers and effort had 
consistently been made by the War 
Department to establish a complete 
standardization of the military 
courses at institutions to which mili­
tary instructors had been detailed, 
it was a difficult matter to obtain 
the full co-operation of college au­
thorities. This was shown by ex­
cusing students from military work, 
not providing sufficient funds for the 
efficient upkeep of the military de­
partments and by not alloting proper- 
time and opportunity for military 
instruction.
The standard then laid down by the 
War Department and agreed to by 
the land grant colleges required three 
hours of military instruction a week, 
the equivalent of 84 hours for the 
academic year but this minimum was 
found to be insufficient for .the re­
sults desired.
The introduction in Congress of 
the measure known as the McKellar 
bill caused widespread discussion 
among the school authorities. The 
land grant colleges were generally 
opposed to the measuro, as it pro­
vided for a new agency in each state, 
and might, operate to reduce attend- 
¦inco at the state institutions. But 
the future of an Officers’ Reserve 
Corps was assured by this bill, and 
Its discussion was the entering 
wedge which resulted In the enact­
ments constituting the Rosorvo Offi­
cers’ Training Corps.
This law now authorizes the es­
tablishment. and maintenance of a 
senior division of the Reserve Offi­
cers’ Training Corps at. universities 
and colleges requiring four years of 
collegiate study for a degree. And 
it is a matter of keen satisfaction to 
the War Department to see Yale 
University preparing to establish a 
unit for field artillery instruction.
Its generous appropriations have 
provided an armory and stables and 
a special building for indoor drills 
and for instruction in gunnery and 
material. And already many of its 
students have received considerable 
instruction in field artillery, due to 
their enrollment in the National 
Guard during the past year. The 
War Department is ready to issue 
the necessary field artillery material 
and horses and to forage the horses, 
but there Is no available appropria­
tion from which to meet the expense 
of hiring civilians to care for this 
equipment, or is there warrant for 
sending troops to take care of such 
material other than the instructors 
and enlisted men to assist in the 
work of instruction. The tremendous 
expense of government forbids the 
possibility of obtaining appropria­
tions for this special service and so 
an added expense will be placed 
upon Yale and other institutions that 
desire training of units of mounted- 
organizations.
It is greatly to be desired that the 
splendid plans begun at Yale be car­
ried to a Successful conclusion. 
While the War Department is ready 
lo issue all classes of equipment to 
institutions which are training units 
of the Reserve Officers’ Training 
Corps by reason of the expense in­
volved but few will be able to have 
training units for mounted organiza­
tions. At this time four Institutions 
have Indicated their desire to or­
ganize mounted units, and Yale alone 
has taken definite steps in this di­
rection.
The importance of training units 
for Field Artillery cannot be over­
estimated. It Is an arm in which 
we are most deficient; it is the far 
reaching weapon which may decide 
the fate of a nation, and only actual 
service at the gun can give the 
knowledge necessary to fit the 'stu­
dent for the responsibility of a re­
serve officer.
The student body at Yale is rep­
resentative of all sections of our 
country and are a class of men who 
by educational opportunities will ul­
timately be enrolled among the lead­
ing men of our country in progres­
sive thought, intelligence and in 
business and political acumen. At 
Yale should be inculcated the fun­
damentals of a. free people that equal 
opportunities and protection under 
the law brings equal responsibility 
in upholding and maintaining the 
law and that every man owes to 
the body politic his duty not only in 
civil affairs but also the defense of 
the nation. These responsibilities 
cannot be instilled into its students 
better than as now planned at Yale 
virtues of peace.
The Yale spirit in keeping more 
than abreast of every patriotic en­
deavor has never been better exem­
plified than by its determination to 
maintain a training unit for field ar­
tillery. The army and the country 
generally are alert in interest that 
there be no faltering in the high 
purpose of the university and its 
student body.
BASEBALL PRACTICE I
STARTED IN EARNST
(Continued From Pago Ono.) 
praefiged most loltlitulìy have" boon 
Ilio battery candidates and it Is among 
tliom that the most promising now 
material had boon round. Three of 
these prospetta aro Lyons, the trim 
1118-pound football guard; Hurd, from 
Washington, n. C„ and Puller, from 
niellinomi, Va. They handle them­
selves like real pitchers and have 
lmd experience. With Cosgrove and 
Wean, last year's pitchers, back, and 
Captain Harry Zehfuss. Yabe Butts 
and Tubby Warner to namlle I hem, 
McCullough is pretty well oft in this
TRACK MEN TRAINING
IFORJPENING MEET
(Continued From Page one.) 
of the competing schools to attend, 
and will hold an all-day reception for 
them, further plans for which will be 
announced later.
Only one trip away is scheduled, 
aside from the Penn relay meet. That 
will be with Dennison University, at 
Dennison, Ohio, May 5. However, the 
Techites may enter the Westminster- 
Grove City-Geneva meet at New Wil­
mington, Pa., June 2, and marke this 
affair a quadrupular instead of a tri­
angular meet.
The tentative schedule follows: 
April 13—Inter Plebe meet.
April 20—Inter-School Meet.
April 21—Relay Tryouts.
April 28—Penn Relays at Philadelphia. 
May 5—Dennison University Dual 
Meet, at Dennison, O.
May 12—Open. .
May 19—Pitt Intercollegiate Meet. 
May 26—Tech Interscholastic and Al­
legheny College Dual Meet.
June 2 — Westminster-Geneva-Grove 
City Meet, at New Wilmington, Pa.; 
tentative.
P. LUDEBUEHL & SON
Shoes and Hosiery Penn and Frankstown 
Footprints Lead to Detection
The standing of a man is as oft*« 
os not told by his footwear—If ha la 
careless of that, he’s apt to be negli­
gent of more Important things. If 
you will buy your shoes here, you 
may be certain of looking all right, 
feeling all right and impressing othi 
ers with the fact that you are "all 
right,” Our Shoes are built by soml 
of the most representative Shoe Man­
ufacturers in the world.
$3.50 Ro $10.00 RhE PaIW SpEcIal MEN’S DEpR
SERVICE
IRON GUY ELECTRIC CO |
6033 Broad St., E. E.
All Kinds of BATTERIES 
Repaired and Recharged |
ü3j2J9jS5Î^MSÎ5IHMS/S/5f5MtilMc!J5JcySJ5/5JSj5i5JBI5J5fBlcyM5ji
