Fourteen Years with 
Robert E. Doherty . . .
The period from 1936 to 1950 
brought many significant changes 
in the policies of Carnegie Tech. 
Read about the contributions of 
this great educator on Page 7
Famous Carnegie 
Graduates . , .
Many Carnegie graduates have 
gone on to fame in industry and 
the arts. Read about such people 
as C. E. Wilson, Arthur Kennedy, 
Bill Eyth, and many others on
Page 6
All-Time Athletic Greats . . .
Local sports writers help in se­
lecting the cream of Carnegie’s 
great football and basketball 
I players on
Page 12
Research at Carnegie . . .
During the past decade, Carnegie 
has increased its graduate re­
search projects in many fields. Re­
search presently going on is de­
scried in a story on
Page 6
Carnegie's Letter of 
Intent . . .
The letter by Andrew Carnegie 
to the mayor of Pittsburgh, in 
which he founded Carnegie Insti­
tue of Technology is published on
Page 5
Golden Years in Sports . . .
Carnegie Tech athletic teams 
gained national prominence during 
the twenties and thirties. These 
years are reviewed on
Pages 10, 11, 12
VOL. 44—No. 6PITTSBURGH. PA.THURSDAY, OCTOBER 26, 1950
Scholarship
Important
With CIT
Operating Budget 
Gifts, Endowment 
Finance Grants
Scholarships for CIT under­
graduates have been established 
through the years to be awarded 
to “students of need, scholastic 
promise, and character.” These 
qualifications . are weighed and 
balanced by the committee on 
Scholarships headed by Dean 
Dickinson in order to select fairly 
the persons to receive financial 
aid.
Awards from the general op­
erating budget, endowments, and 
“outside gifts” comprise the three 
main types of help for the strug­
gling college students. It-has been 
the policy of the school to at­
tempt to support 10 percent of the 
enrollment with scholarship aid.
$100,000 Available
Funds from the general operat­
ing budget have helped to bolster 
the all-source total to an excess 
of $100.000 for each of the last 
years. This is quite a rise from 
about $60,000 in 1941, but since 
tuition has been raised since then 
too, the number of scholarships 
has not jumped as rapidly as the 
sum.
Endowments form a large part 
of Carnegie’s scholarship pro­
gram. Such firms as Westinghouse, 
U.S. Steel. Mesta Machine, Pitts­
burgh Plate Glass and others have 
contributed to help engineers 
through school.
The College of Engineering and 
Science has by far the greatest 
number of industry initiated en­
dowments since a large firm has 
more resources with which to 
sponsor prospective engineers.
Alumni Funds
Alumni contributions have set 
Up a number of scholarships, one 
of the most notable being the 
Charles E. Wilson $121,000 fund. 
The third type of scholarship is 
exemplified by the local P.T.A. 
gift or the national award. Na­
tional scholarships for “out-of- 
the-area” students are in excess 
of tuition to give them a little ex­
tra boost.
CIT's scholarship ration is small 
compared to some others, but 
when the fact that 50% of the stu­
dents come from in and around 
Pittsburgh is considered, the local 
scholarship total is nearer average,
Dr. Doherty Mourned 
By Students, Facuity
Former President Fatally Stricken 
On Eve Of Anniversary Celebration
Robert Ernest Doherty, who retired from the Carnegie Institute 
of Technology presidency in July of this year, died last Thursday 
night in Scotia, New York, at the age of 65.
? Clay City, Illinois,
Dr. .T. C. Warner
I am glad to have this opportunity provided by the 
Tartan to say a few words about the coming week-end and 
to welcome the many visitors to the campus.
It was just fifty years ago, 1900, when Mr. Andrew Car­
negie formally presented his plan for the establishment of 
this school. There followed five years of planning and build­
ing before the first students were admitted and classes be­
gan. Although fifty years is a relatively short time as the 
ages of American educational institutions go, we have come 
a long way during this half-century and now occupy a posi­
tion among America’s leading institutions of higher educa­
tion. This week-end we are pausing to take stock of our­
selves, to look backward for a moment and to look forward 
as best we can.%On Friday and Saturday there will be many activities 
that I hope will be of interest to our friends as well as to 
students and faculty, beginning with the inauguration and 
delegates’ luncheon and ending with the fiftieth-anniversary 
dinner dance. One part of the program might be lost sight 
of because of the crowded schedule—departmental open 
house. I hope that it will not be overlooked. On Friday af­
ternoon and Saturday morning many members of the faculty 
will be in their offices. They will be glad to see anyone who 
has an interest in their department—to show the facilities 
of the department and to discuss the work they are doing.
To our visitors and to our own students and faculty I 
say that it is a pleasure to have you here to take part in 
the activities that will make an important chapter in the 
history of Carnegie Institute of Technology. I hope you will 
find them both interesting and enjoyable.
Sincerely vours,
Carnegie Grant 
Started School 
Near 1900
Changes In Courses, 
Administration, Policy 
During Short History
By Lloyd Dyer
Andrew Carnegie laid the 
framework for what was to be­
come Carnegie Tech when, in 1900, 
he offered the City of Pittsburgh 
the money for the founding of a 
“Technical Institute.”
On November 15, 1900, Carnegie 
gave a banquet for civic leaders 
of the city at which he read a 
letter in w'hich he oifered to en­
dow a technical school for the 
city. Carnegie, who had long 
planned such a move, was prompt­
ed to take action when he heard 
that the Board of Education of 
the city had asked for money for 
a similar undertaking. Since the 
Carnegie Institute was already 
well established, Carnegie felt this 
was the time to fulfill another of 
his dreams.
Large Endowment 
Carnegie promised to endow the 
school with one million dollars 
worth of the finest securities. In 
ending the letter he used the 
phrase “my heart is in the work;” 
a statement which now forms part 
of the seal of the school.
Original plans called for the es­
tablishment of four schools, each 
with its own faculty and buildings 
but subordinate to a central ad­
ministrative staff. These included 
the School of Science and Tech­
nology, the School of Fine and 
Applied Arts, the School for Ap­
prentices and Journeymen, and 
the Margaret Morrison School for 
Women. Only six months after 
ground was broken for the first 
building (April 3, 1905), students 
entered its halls and the “letter of 
intent” had been transformed into 
[Continued on page 7]
Born in Clay City, Illinois, on 
January 22, 1885, Dr. Doherty
was educated at the University of 
Illinois, where he won a Bachelor 
of Science degree in 1909.
After graduation, he worked 
for the General Electric company 
as assistant to the great Dr. 
Charles P. Steinmetz. During his 
work with Dr. Steinmetz, he 
found time to pursue graduate 
studies at Union college, and won 
a Master of Science degree there 
in 1920.
Consulting Engineer
Dr. Doherty was appointed a 
! consulting engineer by GE in 1923. 
i Then, two years later, because of 
work he had been doing on his 
I own, Dr. Doherty was selected to 
organize the advanced course in 
j engineering offered by GE. This 
! program, as established by Dr. 
Doherty; still exists.
In 1931, Yale University called 
him as professor and chairman of 
the Department of Electrical En­
gineering, and, during that year,
' conferred upon him the honorary 
degree of Master of Arts. He be­
came D-an of the Yale School of 
Engineering in 1933* a post he 
held until 1936 when he became 
! third President of Carnegie.
Elected Mayor
Wherever Dr. Doherty settled, 
i he became an active and import­
ant member of the community. 
He was mayor of Scotia, New 
York, in 1922, and a member of 
the city’s board of education from 
1925 to 1929.
1 In Pittsburgh, besides helping 
to found the Alegheny Confer- 
j ence, he served as its chairman 
| during its first three years, was 
a member of the Pittsburgh hous­
ing authority, and chairman of the 
; Pittsburgh branch of the Federal 
Reserve Band.
Man of the Year
In 1943, Pittsburgh's Junior 1 Chamber of Commerce chose him 
as its “Man of the Year.’’ He was 
president of the Society for the 
Promotion of Engineering Educa­
tion and chairman of the Engin­
eers’ Council for Professional De- 
| velopment.
[Continued on page i)
Curriculum Additions 
Improved New School
By Larry Glavln
Carnegie Institute of Technology has through the years met the 
changing needs of its students by corresponding alterations in the 
courses it offers.
In 1900 the Carnegie Technical Schools were founded to pro­
vide a broad secondary education?-------------------------------- ------- -----
primarily for men and women Fine and Applied Arts to pro- 
who could not afford the time or vide skilled industrial artists and1 designers; and the Margaret Mor­
rison Carnegie School for Womenexpenses for a four year college 
education, for evening students, 
and for the needs of those who 
would eventually become affiliated 
with the great industries of Pitts­
burgh.
Four Schools
This training was divided into 
four schools: the School of
Science and Technology, to in­
struct draftsmen, foremen, en­
gineer’s assistants, junior execu-
to provide vocational trair 
secretarial and genearl 
studies, household economi 
costume design.
In 1909 the first normal < 
in Industrial Education 
Household Economics were 
lished, and the following v<
iari
to the
ents
ind
oi
tives, and those students v 
neded technical instruction ab< 
and beyond that of manual tra 
ing; the School#of Apprentices t 
Journeymen for the education 
manufacturing a n d build 
trades mechanics: TL<r School
heLack Of Dffrees
I Conti)

---------------------------------------------------

Page 2,ofotiTHURSDAY, OCTOBER 26, 1950
Editorials—
Doherty and Carnegie
The death of Robert E. Doherty last Thursday brought 
to a close the career of one of the outstanding educators in 
the country.
To Carnegie Tech. Doherty proved to be what Abraham 
Lincoln was to the stabilization and growth of the United 
States. Without a doubt, he was the most controversial figure 
ever connected with the school since its founding. While a 
review of his contributions to Carnegie during the past 14 
years are made on another page in this issue, we would like 
to make an evaluation of the two most controversial sub­
jects connected with his administration—the de-emphasis of 
intercollegiate athletics and the Carnegie plan of education.
When Dr. Doherty came to Carnegie Tech in 1936, he found 
an athletic program which was caught in a viscious circle; with 
the academic requirements so high, it was impossible to main­
tain a consistently top-ranking team, and, unless the school did 
maintain such a team, it was found (through experience) that 
it would lose money in any program of big-time football.
Thus, Dr. Doherty, in his Report To Alumni in 1937 re­
garding athletics, stated, “ . . . Carnegie Institute -of Tech­
nology is, before all else, an educational institution.” The 
policy was clearly to relegate the demands of intercollegiate 
athletics to a position where they would be met after the 
educational program had been met fully by both the school 
and students.
To give Carnegie the best football and basketball teams pos­
sible under its educational policies, alumni have been encouraged 
to contribute to the Steffan fund, a fund established to provide 
financial aid for students with athletic abilities who are able 
to meet the scholastic requirements.
Carnegie Tech has come a long way since this policy 
was first initiated. Many have begun to realize that Doher- 
tj's statement back on October 29, 1937 which was to drop 
Carnegie out of the big-time, was one of the pioneer steps 
in drawing the line between the semi-professional athletic 
efforts of many major colleges today and the Hutchins-Uni- 
versity of Chicago extreme. Today, Carnegie Tech has a 
healthy sports program which has proven itself capable of 
satisfying the demands of students, both as participants and 
spectators.
Dr. Doherty had formulated definite ideas along a new' 
line of education when he decided to come to Carnegie from 
Yale in 1936. From his extensive experience in both industry and 
teaching, he had sensed that there was something missihg in the 
education of the engineer. While working with the famous Dr. 
Steinmetz at General Electric, Doherty learned the hard way that 
a good technical background is almost totally useless without the 
ability of knowing how to apply it to specific problems.
Attempting to find some way to help the engineering 
student while he was still in school, Doherty put to work an 
education plan where every student is taught to practice 
learning by himself in college so that he’ll know how to go 
about it after he graduates. The reasoning behind such a 
step is simple: since each student doesn’t get a professor with 
his diploma, he’ll have to be his own professor from then cn 
if he is going to grow in knowledge and ability.
Thus, by giving the students a basic technical knowledge, 
and then teaching him how to solve problems by first, evaluat­
ing what the real problem to be solved is, and then planning a 
solution, the Carnegie plan gives the student a lifetime of edu­
cation.
Although still very much in its infancy, the Carnegie 
plan of professional education is slowly catching on in edu­
cational circles throughout the country.
OFFICES: Carnegie Union, 5075 Forbes Street. Pittsburgh 13, Pa.TELEPHONE: SChenley 1-4557; after hours, MUseum 1-5255; for advertising and
subscriptions, MU 1-7434, MU 1-4076.Published weekly during the school year, except holidays and examination periods, by the students of Carnegie Institute of Technology. Pittsburgh 13, Pennsylvania.
Editor-in-chief ............................................................................................Paul V. OffermannBusiness Manager ...........................................................................................Morty H. BakerManaging Editor ...............................................................................................Lloyd W. DyerPersonnel Manager .........................................................................................Ray J. Mangold
News Editor—Nancy Sitler. Sports Editor—Fred Lunt. Make-up Editor—A1 Bader. Copy Editor—Fred Sonnenberg. Features Editor—Dolores Mitchell. Assistant Busi~ ness Manager—Bud Smith. Advertising Manager—David Goldsmith. Circulation Manager—A1 Selz. Photography Editor—Dick Gilson. Proof Editor--John Tancill. 
Assistant Sports Editor—Art Christopher.
Chief Reporters—Shirlee Ploeger, Jane Robb. Personnel Assistant—Dick Woods. Reporters—Patricia Kelly, Phil Molenda, Hugh Young, Marilyn Sweeney, Rosemary Serafini. Sports Staff—Joan Cummerton, Jastin Davidson, Bob Lynch, Skip Mitchell, A1 Mooie, Cal Smith. Larry Summerill. Art Staff—Henry Carlsen, Carroll Gantz. Ken Ferguson. Jerry Weisman. Make-up Staff—Bea Pollock. Dick Ahlstrom. Proof Staff -Robert Brown. Feature Staff—Candy Kane. Ivan Sturman. Photography Staff—David Goldsmith. Martin Snyderman, Jim Walker. Headline Staff—Vince Ribas. Cali-to Cruder, Walt Hayes, Dick Smith, Sally Ward, Shirley Larson. « opv Staff—Pat Miller. Cub Reporter—Ann Parker. Julie Cosentino, Jane Dowling, Bill Smith, Bob McQuad, Dick Durstine, Nancy Rausch, Joan Webb. Advertising Maff—Anne Philhower, Sally Woodroof, Jerry Seiner, Marilyn Seiner, John Stroble C irculation Staff Barry Innerfield, Don Weaver. Secretary—Eleanor Doni- ger. Tjpists- Joan Novak, Mildred Thompson, Posy Price, Anita Makrauer.
Represented for national advertising by NATIONAL ADVERTISING, Inc., College Publishers Representative, 420 Madison Ave., New York City. Subscription Sl.lT) 
per year.Entered as -econd cla-s matter on Oct. 4, 1907, at the Post Office at Pittsburgh, Pa, under the Act of March 3, 1879. Accepted for mailing at special rate ofAl nnr,' OP 100, t nthnri?«* Ortnhor 91 101SJ
ONLY THIS REMAINS
Letters To The Editor-
Council Reports On Barracks; 
Purcell Protested By Students
To the students: ?
Due to the recent remarks and 
articles by several students, the 
president of Student Council ap­
pointed the special committee to 
give a report on the FPHA hous­
ing problem. Council felt that you, 
the students, have the right to 
know what the school is doing 
about this situation, and we hope 
this report will answer any ques­
tion in your mind.
The braracks were erected after 
World War II in order to relieve 
increased housing problems. Since 
many students were GI’s, the fed­
eral government offered the bar­
racks to our school, and CIT ac­
cepted the offer. However, in al­
lowing contsruction of the bar­
racks, the school had no inten­
tion of letting them stand per­
manently. Almost immediately a 
five year plan for their removal 
was set up. By the end of this 
period the school hoped to have 
new dorm facilities for men which 
would replace the FPHA units.
If the school follows the orig­
inal plan, all FPHA units will be 
down by the 1951-52 school year. 
But school officials made it clear 
to the committee that they are not 
promising a fulfillment of the plan, 
due to recent developments in na­
tional policy caused By world 
events. All that school officials 
would promise was that the units 
would be torn down as soon as 
possible. Meanwhile any major 
improvements on the barracks 
will not be made, because it would 
be foolish to spend large sums of 
money on the units just before 
they are to be torn down. How­
ever, minor repairs and improve­
ments will continue to be made.
When asked why Carnegie 
spent such large sums of money 
for improvements on Morewod 
Gardens while the FPHA units 
were ignored, officials explained 
that the improvements had been 
planned for some years. The im­
provements were to made before 
the girls occupied the Gardens in 
1948, but were held up due to 
the late departure of the previous 
tenants. The officials summed up 
their reply by explaining that the 
money for Gardens improvement 
was appropriated in 1948, while 
as yet money for new men’s 
dorms hasn’t ben appropriated.
Student Council hopes that this 
report will satisfy all students as 
to school policy on the dorm ques­
tion, and we wish to thank you 
for the interest you have shown.
Leonard Hvizdos,
Student Council 
SDeeial Commitee.
A Petition
There are a numt>er of students 
at CIT, possibly a majority, who 
were extremely disappointed and 
chagrined to hear that Jack Pur­
cell had been engaged for Car­
negie’s Homecoming dance.
Purcell played recently, at 
Spring Carnival, and we feel that 
’ a “name” dance band should have 
j been hired for this occasion. We 
have not heard many enthusiastic j comments about Purcell’s last ap­
pearance; if such had been the 
case, his reappearance might be 
justified.
We realize that there have been 
many complaints from our stu­
dents about the high admission to 
all-school affairs. However, while 
there is no excuse for high admis- 
| sion rates, most students, especial­
ly those who send for their “back- 
j home” girl friends, would be will­
ing to pay $1 or so more, if this 
would enable them to dance to a 
name band.
We, the undersigned, presume 
that it is now too late to correct 
this situation since Mr. Purcell is 
already under contract, however, 
we hope that this petition might 
prevent another such occurrence 
at Carnegie’s next big affair. .
(Petition is signed by 500 Tech 
students).
By Dolly Mitchell
A SAD TALE . . . When a fuse 
blew in E wing of the barrack last 
Wednesday, the unfortunate occu­
pants had to forego study and 
dash to the Inn to watch wrestling 
on television. Isn’t that a shame? 
SUBVERSIVE ACTIVITIES . . . 
No wonder there is a surplus of 
Tartans around the college. The 
Pitt News is cleaning up on sub­
scriptions from Tech girls. In the 
October 17 issue of Pitt’s news­
paper there appeared a picture 
captioned, “Tech Coeds Know 
Best.” The smiling faces of Joan 
Galloway, Barbara Walters, Con­
nie Ritts, and Ann Sherrard gave 
evidence that the News was not 
committing libel.
GLUG, GLUG ... If you hear a 
strange gurgling when you are on 
the tennis courts don’t worry 
about it. It is pi'obably the creek 
that runs underneath the campus 
in the vicinity.
NAUGHTY . . . Photographs of 
the queen candidates are fast dis­
appearing from the posters on the 
bulletin boards. Now boys, is that
fair?
PRETTY PLEASE . . . Pasted on 
the Skibo bulletin board is an 
SOS sign that requires the im­
mediate attention of Carnegie 
women. It reads: “Wanted: One 
date for Homecoming; call collect; 
field house football coaches. Ask 
for any junior birdman.”
FRAT FACTS . . . Sigma Nu fra­
ternity added its forty-third 
pledge’to the fall list last Friday. 
BEWILDERED ... To the stu­
dents who find Engineering Hall 
a labyrinth: The rooms are num­
bered according to a concise sys­
tem, honest. One digit signifies 
the floor and the other the room.' 
For example, in the new Engi­
neering addition, the rooms are 
numbered NE 1122 and so on.
IN TRIM? . . . Dean David can 
be found in his office after lunch 
hour, puffing and panting from a 
vigorous session of pingpong.
TO THE REAR . . . There is a 
building on campus that can be 
! entered only through -the rear en- 
| trance. It is Machinery Hall. 
STAUNCH PIPER ... Mr. Lewis 1 Davidson, the Kiltie bagpipe di­
rector, who suffered a severe 
j heart attack this summer, has re­
cently returned from the hospitaL
Editor: The Tartan 
Dear Sir,
As a member of that small but 
; honorable group of men who pas­
sionately resent the fact that, since 
| Adam and Eve, the “gentle” sex 
has been constantly “putting 
j things over” on the daocile male, 
may I express my vociferous pro­
test against the dishonorable and 
disgrading practice of permitting 
the Morewood Maidens to throw 
water on men. The Tech women 
will have ample chance during 
the next four years to bring these 
boys to their knees (by those far 
more subtle manoeuvers known 
only to the female of the species) 
without the aid of those Judases 
among the men who will betray 
their own kind.
We do not oppose the “washing 
away of the freshmen’s sins”—but 
let the water be thrown by mas­
culine hands. And you upperclass 
Quislings who slyly led the trust­
ing frosh into the deluge—shame, 
oh eternal shame. The girls don’t 
need your help in teaching the 
boys just who is boss in this 
“man’s” world.
Your’s, in fun, 
r H^n.v VITT
THROW AWRY
rH^n.Hrv
When the Filter in Medico 
Pipes or Cigarette Holders 
turns brown, throw it 
away with the nicotine, 
tars, juices and flakes 
it has trapped. Insert 
a fresh Filter to get 
cooler, cleaner, 
dryer, purer 
smoking!
3
MEDICO V. F. Q. (VERY FINE QUALI
Pipes of specially selected imported briar. 
Wide variety of shapes. With 10 filters... 
Alto Frank Medico "Standard*... 
Amirica't Outstanding Dollar ($1) Pip»^ 
Frank Medico Cigarette Holders *| &MEDICO
f | ITER PIPES

---------------------------------------------------

THURSDAY, OCTOBER 26, 1950TA4WANPage 3
Plans On Homecoming 
Weekend Near Finish
Inauguration Of President, Fiftieth
Anniversary Theme Highlight HC
After months of careful preparation, plans for the Homecoming 
weekend have reached the final stages. Hightlighting the weekend 
will be the inauguration of' Dr. J. C. Warner as fourth president
of Carnegie Tech. ?----------------------------——-----------------
The theme of Homecoming this f
Schedule
year will center around the 50th 
anniversary celebration. In keep­
ing with this theme Elliptt D. 
Smith, Provost, will read the late 
Dr. Doherty’s address on “The 
First Fifty Years” at the delegates 
luncheon on Friday. Dr. J. C. 
Warner will speak on “Carnegie 
and the Future.”
Dedications Friday
Friday will feature the Carnegie 
Day exercises with recognition of 
undergraduate honors as well as 
the dedication of the new building 
additions on campus. These addi­
tions were made to Engineering 
and Science hall and Morewood 
Gardens dormitory. Included in 
Friday’s schedule are the depart­
mental and fraternity open houses.
A Homecoming and fiftieth an­
niversary luncheon will be held in 
the Gymnasium at noon on Satur­
day. Charles E. Wilson, president 
of General Motors Corporation and 
Carnegie alumnus of the class of 
1909, will deliver the fiftieth an­
niversary address. Clarence R. 
Dodson, president of the Carnegie 
Alumni Federation, will preside.
Heading Saturday’s list of sched­
uled activities is the football 
game with Case Tech at Forbes 
Field. Class competitions also hold 
a prominent place on Saturday’s 
schedule. A semi-formal dance at 
the William Penn Hotel will bring 
to a close the festivity packed 
weekend.
Special Guests
Carnegie will be host to many 
prominent people during the 
Homecoming weekend. Among 
these is Harry Stuhldreher, for­
mer director of athletics at Wis­
consin and one of the four horse­
men of Notre Dame.
Other prominent figures will be 
Rufus H. Fitzgerald, chancellor of 
the University of Pittsburgh; Very 
Reverend Vernon F. Gallagher, 
president of Duquesne University; 
Paul R. Anderson, president of 
Pennsylvania College for Women; 
T. Keith Glennan, president of 
Case Institute of Technology; Rob­
ert B. Heppenstall, president of 
Heppenstall Company; Edgar J. 
Kaufmann, president of Kauf- 
mann’s; H. J. Heinz, II, president 
of H. J. Heinz Corporation; Ed­
ward V. Crump, Jr., president of 
Crump Incorporated; Rev. Thomas 
J. Quigley, superintendent of Pitts­
burgh Catholic schools; Carl B. 
Jensen, president of Dravo Cor­
poration; and Judge Sara M. Sof- 
fel, representing Wellesley Col­
lege.
Shaped Charge 
To Be Exhibit 
Oil Weekend
An exhibit of high-speed pho­
tographs and actual models show­
ing the results of metallic jet 
charges will be on display dur­
ing the Homecoming and Inaug­
uration open house in the Physics 
Department, at the entrance to 
EH 204.
These high-speed photographs 
were taken by Mr. Heine-Geldern 
and his assistants under the di­
rection of Dr. Emerson M. Pugh, 
professor of physics.
“Life” magazine visited the 
eampus to gather information for 
an article in the October 23 issue 
explaining the action of the 
metallic jet charges on which Pro­
fessor Pugh’s group has been do­
ing fundamental research.
The “Science News Letter” for 
July 22 had an article, “Artificial 
Meteors from Bazooka-Like Ex- j 
periment,” concerning other pho-
The complete schedule for the
Homecoming weekend follows: 
Friday
9:00 to 12:00—Registration—^Lob­
by Administration Hall.
9:30—Academic Procession-forms, 
IH.
10:30 — Inauguration — Gymna­
sium.
12:00 to 8:00—Registration—Lob­
by, Administration Hall.
12:00—Luncheon for official dele­
gates—Fine Arts Foyer.
2:00—Dedication of new addition 
to E&S.,
2:30—Departmental open house 
and inspection of research lab­
oratories.
3:00—Carnegie Day exercises — 
Gymnasium.
4:00—Homecoming tea, Pittsburgh 
Women’s Clan, Carnegie Union.
6:00—Dedication of new addition 
to Morewood Gardens.
6:30—Class reunion dinners.
Steffen Club dinner—Pittsburgh 
Athletic Assn.
7:00—Pep Rally and Pledge Cheer­
ing Competition—Bowl.
8:00—Special performance “Lil- 
liom” — Little Theater. Open 
House—Fraternities.
9:00—All-School Dance In Wom­
en’s Gym. Sponsored by Citcom 
and Dorm Council.
Saturday
9:00 to 2:00—Registration—Lobby, 
Administration Hall.
9:30—Alumni Council Meeting— 
Room 106, Fine Arts.
10:00 to 12:00—Departmental open 
house for alumni and friends.
10:30—Class Competitions on Cut.
10:30—Alumni admissions inter­
viewers conference, Carnegie 
Theatre.
12:00—Homecoming Fiftieth Anni­
versary luncheon—Gym.
2:30—Football game — Forbes, 
Field. Inspection of Nuclear Re­
search center.
6:30—Fiftieth anniversary recep­
tion—17th floor, William Penn 
Hotel.
8:00—Fiftieth Anniversary Dinner 
—Dance — Ballroom, William 
Penn Hotel (semi formal). Spe­
cial performance “Lilliom” — 
Little Theater.
Talks On Slide 
Rule Scheduled
Tau Beta Pi Sponsors 
Lecture Next Weeh
A series of two lectures in the 
use of the slide rule will be offer­
ed in the Little Theater at 11:30 
on Tuesday, October 31, and No­
vember 14.
The purpose of these lectures is 
to give an opportunity to acquire 
better understanding of the rule. 
These lectures will, however, be 
open to all students and faculty 
who are interested.
The slide rule is one of the most 
important time-saving devices in 
making computations, since few 
of us have access to calculating 
machines or electronic brains. Its 
usefulness is by no means limit­
ed to engineering but is just as 
handy for anyone who has to work 
with figures.
'Professor J. B. Rosenbach, head 
of the department of mathematics, 
will introduce the speaker, Donald 
Baeder, senior in Chemical Engi­
neering.
The lectures are sponsored by 
Tau Beta Pi with the cooperation j 
of Pi Mu Epsilon and the Depart­
ment of Mathematics. A giant slide i 
rule will be used for demonstra- j
Inaugural Tickets
Tickets for the Inaugural 
exercise on October 27 at 
10:00 a.m. for students not 
taking part in the academic 
procession may be obtained in 
the Public Relations office,
I. H. 127, on Thursday, Oc­
tober 26. The gymnasium will 
be set to accommodate ap­
proximately 1800 people al­
lowing about 800 tickets far 
faculty wives, friends, and 
students.
In view of this condition, 
the faculty members will be 
limited to two tickets and stu­
dents one.
Rege Cordic To Emcee Show 
For Campus Chest Campaign
Variety Show To Be Staged In Little Theatre
October 31 Featuring Campus Personalities
A huge variety show headlined by Rege Cordic, popular early 
morning disc jockey, will officially start Carnegie Tech’s Campus 
Chest campaign.
The show will be in the Little Theatre during the assembly hour
on Tuesday, October 31, and pro-#------1----------------------------------------------
vide a fitting kick-off to the cam-
Frosk-Soph Battle 
Is Scottish Game
“Fastern’s E'en’’, Scotch Handball, 
To Take Place On Cut Saturday
By Dolly Mitchell
With the call of the bagpipes at 10:30 tills Saturday morning, 
Scottish custom will step on the bandstand on the cut to officiate 
the class competition at Homecoming.
This year the entire competition program will center around
___________________________________^Scottish traditions.
Fastern’s E’en, the contest be-
paign which will take place No­
vember 1, 2, 3.
Wrestling 
With Cordic Mc’ing the show 
will include such campus per­
sonalities as Peggy Duff, Phil 
Flad, Jerry Terheyden. Even a 
wrestling exhibition featuring 
two top Carnegie groaners will 
be in the program:
A recent survey of close to 1000 
students has enabled the Campus 
Chest Committee to establish the 
percentages of the total funds to 
be received by each participating 
charity. .
Chest Gets Most 
The Allegheny County Com­
munity Chest will receive 46.7 
of the total funds collected. This 
is the largest percentage allocated 
to any charity and is entirely jus­
tified since the Community Chest 
distributes its funds to 92 red 
feather agencies.
The seven other charities par­
ticipating in the drive and the per­
centages they will receive are as 
follows: Red Cross 8.9 percent; 
Salvation Army, 7.7 percent; 
World Student Service Fund, 8.5 
percent; Cancer Fund, 7.7 percent; 
Infantile Paralysis, 11.5 percent; 
Heart House, 4.4 percent; Chil­
dren’s Hospital, 4.3 percent. These 
percentages were established sole­
ly on the basis of “what part of 
each dollar the student wants to 
give to each charity.”
Cash Or Pledge 
Students will be contacted per­
sonally and in groups for their 
contributions. A student may eith­
er pay cash or pledge his contri­
bution to be paid of a later date.
Dance Planned 
Friday Night
Dorm Council, Citcom 
Plan Dance For 300
Men’s Dorm Council and Cit­
com have pooled their efforts to 
present to the students a Home­
coming dance on Friday night.
Music will be by the Richard 
Brooks Quartet, which has been 
playing for several months at the 
Pine Valley Hotel.
Only 300 tickets will be on sale, 
because the dance will have to be 
held in the Women's gym. Both 
Thistle Hall and the gym will be 
occupied by the Homecoming 
banquet. Tickets are on sale in 
Skibo for 75 cents per couple.
The hours of the dance are from 
9 to 1, and both the grill and the 
lounge of Carnegie Inn will be 
open all the time.
tween freshmen and sophomores, 
is a boisterous Scottish version of 
handball. Each year on Shrove 
Tuesday, village people grab a 
large ball and run for the nearest 
goal.
Loose Heads
This rough and ready game 
dates back to Reformation times. 
The legend runs that when the 
j Scots were battling the English,
| the victorious clans men clecapi- 
j tated dead English and played 
1 handball with the heads.
Naturally, such a spectacle will 
not be literally enacted at the com­
petition; but, it will be lively. In 
fact, the first aid facilities will be 
on hand to take care of stubbed 
toes and stoved fingers.
Queens In Plaid 
The freshman and sophomore 
queens, dressed in bright plaid, 
will cheer for their teams, while 
the kiltie pipers chant battle songs.
Awards have not been neglect­
ed either. In true Scottish fash­
ion, the winning team will cap­
ture the standard of the losers 
and present it to their queen.
Better’n Football 
Master of ceremonies, Bob Ku- 
biak, will introduce the freshman 
class officers to their class and ex­
plain the rules and regulations of 
the contest.
The game, Fastern’s E’en, prom­
ises to be even more exciting 
than a fotball game. It isn’t every 
day that heads roll on the Carnegie 
campus.
FPHA Units To Be Torn Down; 
No Improvements Scheduled
Student Information Handbook To Be Available 
To Everyone; ID Card Problem Stalemated
Barring unforseen events, the FPHA barracks will be torn down 
by 1952, according to a report made to Council last Wednesday. The 
ID card discussion again reached the floor, but efforts to change the 
present situation seem to be stalemated. Additional stimulation of
Sororities Pledge 69 
With End Of Rushing
After three weeks of fall rushing, 69 girls received sorority bids 
on October 17.
A new system for matching bids was initiated this year,, relieving 
the Dean of Students of sole responsibility. One alumna from each
sorority, Mrs. Schaeffer, ^nd one#----------------------------------------------------
other unbiased campus woman
matched bids. The sorority wom­
en’s names were not revealed.
The following girls were 
pledged: Alpha Epsilon Phi: Bea­
trice Cohen, Saralee Eisner, Hyla 
Goldstein, Joan Green, Phyllis 
Green, Dorothy Harrison, Soralie 
Levin, Beatrice Pollack, Wanda 
Richmond, Frances Smolever, and 
Norma Trust.
Chi Omega: Betty Griggs, Au­
drey Hilt, Virginia Kemmler, Ruth 
Kirkpatrick, Joan Novack, Mar­
jorie Otterman, Lucille Parish, 
Mary Roe, Marcia Rogers, Mild­
red Thompson, and Carol Schalk.
Delta Delta Delta: Dorothy
Boarts, Unice Brunn, Joanne 
Helms, Anne Wilcox, Dolores 
Walker, Linda Patterson, Joan 
Kerr, Margaret Figner, Louise 
Lawler, and Marjorie Grove.
ley O’Hara, Joanne O’Keefe, 
Constance Ritts, and Ann Sher- 
rard.
Kappa Alphat Theta: Jane Bag- 
| ley, Julie Consentino, Mary Jane 
i DeHaas, Pat Gray, Irene Hezlep,
I Phyllis Joh|)s, Phyllis McLean,
| Susie Straits, Sally Ward, and 
I Diana Westlake.
Kappa Kappa Gamma: Anita 
I Brennan, Patricia Gillespie, Ruth 
j Graham, Margaret Henderson, 
Maureen Kane, Elva Lee Moore, 
Nancy Ruasch, Constance Shana- 
i han, Mary Ellen Smith, Har riet 
I Treon, Joan Wilhelm, and Shir-- 
I ley Williams.
Sigma Kappa: Pauline Burke,
, Mary Chianelli, Dorothy Down- 
| ing, Joan Hammill, Norma Horst,
| Patricia Miller, Dorothy Staiger.1 Joan Stewart, Mary Wagner, and
?spirit and participation at pep ral­
lies was also discussed.
Reporting on an investigation 
of the status of the barracks, Len 
Hvizdos stated that improvements 
j in the present building are not 
scheduled, since it will be razed 1 as soon as alternate quarters for
• men students can be provided.
Plans Not New 
i The FPHA unit was built by the 
j government in 1946 to ease over- 
! crowded conditions, and was not 
under the control of Carnegie un- 
! til about a year ago.
Answering the prevalent quer­
ies about the recent improvements 
| at Morewood Gardens, Hvizdos 
| explained that they were among 
I the original plans for alterations,
| made when the apartments were 
j purchased in 1948.
No Way Out 
Hopes that ID cards might be 
used by non-students as tickets 
; to sports events seem to be a* an 
end. Efforts to find a satisfactory 
i way to alter the present situa- 
j tion have been in vain. The policy 
¦of the administration on the mat- 
! ter is that the admission privi- 
I leges of the card are similar to 
I those of attending classes and ate 
; thus untransferable.
The student handbook, formerly 
given only to freshmen, will be

---------------------------------------------------

I S/M F T 
lucky Shrike 
ns Fine Tobacco
Page 4TAOTANTHURSDAY, OCTOBER 26, 1950
Neb Clark
Freshman President
Class Of 54 
Elects Officers 
For This Year
Officers for the class of ’54 were 
elected last Tuesday after tw7o 
weeks of energetic campaigning.
Ned Clark is newly elected pres­
ident; Patty Evans, secretary; and 
Wayne Smith, treasurer. The 
vice-president from MMCC is Edy 
Engle; from E&S, Louis Kirkbride; 
and Fine Arts, Dale Alexy. Fifty 
per cent of the class turned out to 
vote.
Big Year!
The only time for big cele­
brations at CIT isn’t 1950. 
Carnegie day in 1915 was 
more elaborately celebrated 
than usual, because it marked 
three anniversaries, the 80th 
birthday of the Founder, the 
15th year since the founding 
of the institution, and the 
completion of the 10th year 
since its doors opened to ad­
roit the charter class.
WRCT
Schedule
Tuesday, October 24 
8:00—ORC Show 
8:15—Inquiring Reporter 
8:30—The Marine Story 
8:45—Sammy Kaye "Show 
8:00—Star of the Week 
9:15—Moments of Melody 
9:30—Disc Jockey Show 
10:00—Campus News Round-up 
10:15—The Classical HourWednesday, October 25 
8:00—Latin Tempos 
8:30—Tommy Dorsey Show 
8:45—Its the Tops 
8:00—Twenty Questions 
8:30—Disc Jockey Show 
10:00—Campus News Round-up 
10:15—The Classical HourThursday, October 26 
8:00—Broadway Showtime 
8:30—Star of the Week 
8:45—Sports Round-up
8 00—So Proudly We Hail
9 30—Disc Jockey Show 
10:00—Campus News Round-up 
10:15—The Classical HourMonday, October 30 
8:00—Tech Varieties 
8:00—Harry James Show 
8:15—Jazz Jamboree at CIT 
8:45—Stars on Parade 
10:00—Campus News Round-up 
10:15—The Classical Hour
It’s Magic! •
CIT’S first football march­
ing song originated in the old 
building bureau, now the 
Faculty clubroom, in 1922.
Professor Hornboster and 
his draftsmen were at the 
time designing the gym. By 
way of diversion, they organ­
ized a drum and fife corps 
consisting of a tin wash tub 
and three tin whistles. Out of 
resulting tumultuous noise 
emerged the idea for the song 
“Fight for the Glory of Car­
negie.”
Bob Schmetz was responsi­
ble for the words and music.
=
Opera Season 
Opens Nov. 30
Tickets Now Available 
For Complete Series
Mr. Paul M. Reinhold, newly ap­
pointed president of the Pitts­
burgh Opera Company, announces 
that, the eleventh season will open 
at Syria Mosque on Thursday, 
November 30, and Saturday, De­
cember 2, with the “Marriage of 
Figaro,” in which the leading 
roles will be sung by the., famous 
Brazilian artists Bidu Sayao, and 
Italo Tajo.
* Season tickets are now’ available 
at the box office at Volkwein’s, 632 
Liberty Ave., Pittsburgh 22, Pa., 
for all five operas.
The other four operas of the ser­
ies are: “Tosca” on January 25 
and 27, with Ferrucio Tagliavini 
and Herva Nelli; “Carmen,” on 
February 15 and 17, w'ith Wini­
fred Heidt and Ramon Vinay; 
“Rigooletto,” on March 15 and 17, 
with Robert Weede and Elaine 
Malbin; “La Boheme,” on April 19 
and 21, with Irma Gonzalez, Eul 
gene Conley, and Mary Martin 
Briney.
Richard Karp will again con­
duct the large augmented orches­
tra and Armando Agnini is artis­
tic director. Many local artists will 
appear in the scheduled operas.
The Polytech Chorus Of CIT 
To Appear At Carnegie Hall
Music Of Native Composers To Be Sung;
Purpose Of Tour To Raise Money For Dorms
The Polytech Chorus of the Finland Institute of Technology will 
arrive in America on or about October 15 for a concert tour. This 
amateur chorus of 60 will appear at Carnegie Music Hall on Novem­
ber 3 at 8 p.m. ?-------------------*---------------------
Among other places in the 
United States, they will present a 
concert in the Symphony Hall of 
Boston on December 23 under the 
auspices of MIT. The repertory 
of the Chorus comprises composi­
tions by famous Finnish composers 
as well as beautiful folksongs.
The students of Finland Insti­
tute of Technology have several 
reasons for planning this Ameri­
can tour. Their appeal to raise 
money to build dormitory build­
ings for Finland Tech students is 
the prime purpose.
Realizing that they won't raise 
money from concerts alone, they 
hope the trip will publicize their 
project and stir up interets and 
contributions. Visiting other tech­
nical colleges in the United States 
would bring their problems to the 
attention of understanding con­
tributors.
Also, they would like to see the 
gigantic manufacturing establish­
ment in America and observe the 
technical achievements of this 
country, and benefit thereby.
These future ME’s, EE’s, 
CHEMEs’ and Architects will be 
in Pittsburgh on November 3. In 
order to hear the Finnish music 
and support a college similar to 
Carnegie Tech get your tickets 
wliich are $3.00, $2.50, $2.00, and 
$1.50, from the office of the De­
partment of Music.
SAE Meets
All SAE members are urg­
ed to attend a business meet­
ing to be held Tuesday, Oc­
tober 24, in IH 331. Movies 
will be showTn and a discussion 
will follow. All interested stu­
dents are invited.
Dr. Doherty
[Continued from page 1]
And he was a prolific and much 
respected writer in both the fields 
of engnieering and educatiQn.
Among the honors which Dr. 
Doherty received were two Lam- 
me Awards, one for his work on 
electrical machinery and the sec­
ond for his pioneering in profes­
sional engineering education. In 
1947, he was one of five Ameri­
cans invited to London to address 
the Institution of Mechanical En­
gineers there. He was asked to 
discuss how mechanical engineer­
ing should be taught in colleges.
Painter, Musician
In the 1940’s. he became inter­
ested in painting, and soon was so 
accomplished he held one-man 
shows and won a first prize and 
an honorable mention in the Pitts­
burgh Associated Artists’ annual 
exhibition. He was a musician, 
also, and played several instru­
ments.
In short, Dr. Doherty was a per­
fect example of the type of man 
which his educational program, 
the Carnegie Plan, aims at pro­
ducing: a competent, creative,
professional man who can con­
tribute to community and national 
life and who can guide his own 
personal life so that it w'ill be fun 
and fruitful.
Services were held in Schenec­
tady, New York, last Saturday, 
and Dr. Doherty was buried kl 
Clay City, Illinois.
, want SO-"'
fcy Sa‘eiv%*'3ity
v*v'<£- y ,/e
. cdrteçevp
A '>Ta’n „led ,
RuCCO ..
Enjoy your dgarette! Enjoy truly {¡ne tobacco 
that combines botfi perfect mildness and rich 
taste in one great cigarette - Lucky Strike!
Perfect mildness? You bet. Scientific tests, 
confirmed by three independent consulting 
laboratories, prove that Lucky Strike is milder] 
than any other principal brand. Rich tastef 
Yes, the full, rich taste of truly fine tobacco.
Only fine tobacco gives you both real mildness 
and rich taste. And Lucky Strike means fine 
tobacco. So enjoy the happy blending that com­
bines perfect mildness with a rich, true tobacco 
taste. Be Happy—Go Lucky!
V*«»w*a U"1 
pob»;'of tf‘s90Ur‘
COP*.. TM AMIftlCAN TOÜCCO COMPANY

---------------------------------------------------

THURSDAY, OCTOBER 26, 1950TA«*A1VPage 5
THE CAMPUS TODAY
Aireal view of campus today. (Or last year we might 
say. Note that the new Engineering addition and the 
cut parking lot are not shown.
---------------------------------------- CONSTRUCTION UNDERWAY
The first shovelful of earth being turned for Indus- Shown above are views of Industries and Engineer-
tries Hall. In the background is the framework of the ing Halls as they looked in 1908. Machinery Hall was
Carnegie Institute, not yet completed. not completed until 1912.
Reproduction Of Original Letter 
Endowing Technical Institution
November 15, 1900.
Pittsburgh, Pa.,
Hon. Wm. J. Diehl,
Mayor, City of Pittsburgh 
Honored Sir:—
I learn with deep interest that the Central Board of Education 
has asked the City of Pittsburgh for $100,000 to begin a Technical 
School, no doubt to obtain for the bright youth of the High School 
the essential advantages which technical education in our day affords.
For many years I have nursed the pleasing thought that I might 
be the fortunate giver of a Technical Institute to our City fashioned 
upon the best models, for I know of no institution which Pittsburgh, 
as an industrial center, so much needs. I postponed moving in the 
matter because I wished the Carnegie Institute to be fairly launched 
upon its new development before drawing the attention of Pitts­
burgh to the Technical Institute. The action of the Educational 
Board, however, impels me to step forward now and ask that I may 
be allowed to do what I have long wished to do for Pittsburgh.
I have given . much attention to Technical Schools both in the 
United States and Great Britain during the pats few years. The 
work now being done by the Technical Institute in Boston and Wor­
cester, The Drexel' Institute in Philadelphia, the Pratt Institute in 
Brooklyn, the Armour Institute in Chicago, is most encouraging.
In Great Britain the Keithley Institute and the Halifax Institute, 
¦Which I visited last September to distribute the prizes to the 
students, gave me quite a surprise, nearly one-half of the 1,100 
students in the former, and fully one-half of the 1,400 in the latter 
were young men and women, workers during the day, improving 
themselves in various studies pertaining to their crafts in the even­
ing classes of these institutions. I told these students that this im­
pressed me more than any other. I recalled an essay written by my 
grandfather to Cobbets Register, which that great man pronounced 
the most valubale communication ever published in the Register. 
It was entitled ‘Handication versus Headication’; in that article my 
grandfather thanked God that in his youth he had learned to make 
and mend shoes.
It is really astonishing how many of the world’s foremost men 
have begun as manual laborers. The greatest of all, Shakespeare, 
was a woolcarder; Burns, a plowman; Columbus, a sailor; Hannibal, 
a blacksmith: Lincoln, a railsplitter; Grant, a tanner. I know of no 
better foundation from which to ascend than manual labor in youth.
We have two notable examples of this in our own community 
whose fame is world wide: George Westinghouse was a mechanic; 
Prof. Brashear, a mill-wright.
I believe that a first class technical school probably as large 
as that of Worcester, would develop latent talent around us to such 
as to surprise the most sanguine.
If the City of Pittsburgh will furnish a site, which I hope will 
be of ample size for future extensions, I shall be delighted to pro­
vide the money for such a school, taking care to provide rooms for 
additions to the buildings to meet the certain growth of Pittsburgh.
I would endow it with $1,000^000 five per cent gold bonds, yield­
ing a revenue of $50,000 per year.
The rare ability with which the Trustees of the Carnegie Insti­
tute have managed it, and the results which have so surprised and 
gratified me, naturally lead me to beg these gentlemen to take charge 
of the Technical Institute and its endowment. I had only to plead 
that their increased labors were for the good of Pittsburgh, to be 
assured by everyone, that I have so far had an opportunity of 
consulting, that they would gladly assume the enlarged responsibility.
I propose, therefore, Mr. Mayor, to include the Technical School 
with the Institute and have therefore made its endowment equal to 
the latter.
There are many questions to decide, involving investigation, 
careful study and much labor; among these, whether fees should be 
charged as at the Armour, Drexel, Worcester and Boston Institutes 
and in fact I might say all the technical schools, or whether we can 
take a new departiere and arrange that the students of the high school, 
for instance, should have the doors of the Technical Scliool open to 
them free. This and many other questions must be left to the Com­
mission. But I am in a position to assure you that the Commission 
is prepared to face the problem, and that my heart is in the work.
Very respectfully yours,
\ $/ Andrew Carnegie.
Building Of Carnegie 
Covers 45-Year Period
First Students Trudge Through Mud 
Before Permanent Paths Appear
By Dolly Mitchell
Today as the Carnegie student steps on campus he is surrounded 
by mounds of dirt, the evidence of construction. This planning and 
building made constant progress ever since the day when Carnegie’s 
first president stepped over the hilly and muddy tract of land that
was to- become a technical insti-^—-----:---------------------------
te.
When the campus site was pur­
chased in 1900, it was known as 
Chadwick Farm. No one could 
have imaginde at that time that 
one day this hilly tract with a
Andrew Carnegie
School’s Founder 
* * +
Carnegie Left 
Great Wealth 
To Pittsburgh
Leading Industrialist, 
He had Great Faith 
In Technical Education
Andrew Carnegie, founder of ; 
Carnegie Institute of Technology, 
was born at Dumfermline, Scot­
land, on November 25, 1835.
In 1848 Carnegie sailed for 
America with his parents and set­
tled with relatives in Allegheny, 
a community adjoining Pittsburgh, 
Pennsylvania.
Met Great Men 
^ Although he had little formal 
education, Carnegie read a great 
deal, traveled widely, and associ­
ated with the great men of his 
time. In this manner he became 
an educated man and an outstand­
ing citizen of his adopted coun­
try.
Much of Carnegie’s success as 
a steel-maker can be attributed 
to his ability to obtain the serv­
ice and cooperation of some of the 
leading technical men and scient­
ists of his time. George Lauder 
Jr., one of Carnegie’s cousins, be­
came a mechanical engineer, 
studying under Lord Kelvin at 
the University of Glasgow, and 
then joined Carnegie in the Unit­
ed States. Lauder is probably 
more responsible than any other 
one man for Carnegie’s faith in 
technical education and the tech­
nically trained man.
Famed In Gifts
Although he was a leading fig­
ure in the steel industry until he 
sold his interests in 1901, Carne­
gie’s greatset fame today is close­
ly associated with many of his 
philantrophies, among which is 
Carnegie Institute of Technology.
Andrew Carnegie died at his 
summer home in Lennox, Massa-
sandstone quarry at one end and 
a mud pond at the other would 
become a college campus.
Leveling Problem
The first problem was to level 
this gulch into ground with 
smooth acreage. The completion 
of this project involved such tasks 
as the cutting down of a hill 43 
feet high for the College of Fine 
Arts and a fill of 23 feet for the 
athletic field.
The first buildings were erect­
ed between 1905 and 1915. They
old Athletic Field House under­
went a transformation into the 
Carnegie Inn.
While college buildings were 
cropping up like mushrooms dot­
ting the campus, dormitory facil-
i ities began to grow on Margaret 
! Morrison Street. From 1915 to 
! 1918, seven men dormitories went 
up in quick succession.
No Construction 
For the next dozen years no 
major construction was accom­
plished, however the ambitious 
* planners at CIT were not forget­
ting that Carnegie would grow and 
grow, much like the giant jackpot.
In 1937 Carnegie Union was 
purchased by the school, while 
eight fraternity dormitories were 
included Industries Hall, Marga- bought and acquired by the col-
ret Morrison. Carnegie College, 
Engineering Hall, College of Fine 
Arts, Machinery Hall, and Admin­
istration Hall. Little landscaping 
was done in this period, so that 
undergraduates tracked across 
muddy paths and between stacks 
of building materials to reach 
classes.
Industries First
The first building raised was 
Industries Hall. During the first 
two years all classes of the four 
colleges were conducted in this 
original building. Soon, however 
each college went its separate way. 
MM was occupied in 1907, and 
the engineers moved to EH in 
1908. Arts students hiked to the 
Fine Arts building in 1912. Within 
a dozen years Carnegie Tech had 
expanded to include four perma­
nent schools.
Machinery Next
Next in the architects plan was 
the construction of Machinery 
Hall. Hardly had the last brick 
been laid in the Fine Arts Col­
lege before the tower of MH 
spouted smoke in 1912.
This tower, which masks the 
smoke stack of the power plant, 
became the dominating feature 
of the campus. After finishing 
this building the workmen rushed 
back to put up Administration 
Hall in 1915. When it was first 
constructed, the top floor was used 
as a student recreation center and 
the bottom floor was a dining hall.
By 1922, the campus had a def­
inite ‘ivy covered wall” look. 
Such additions as a senior fense 
and an open air theater added 
color to the college.
Once Hanger
One structure on campus that 
cannot be overlooked is Skibo. 
This cafeteria was originally an 
airplane hanger, erected during 
the First World War. Although 
Skibo stands 220 by 100 feet, its 
construction sec.uired only 23 
days.
The present Gymnasium made 
its appearance in 1924 whet» the
lege during the years 1938 to 1949.
Expansion and rehabilation 
were again the' key notes from 
i 1947 to 1950. Morewood Garden 
j facilities have been improved to 
include dining spaces and lounges. 
The Engineering wing now stands 
completed beside its counterpart,
; Administration Hall. The shelf at 
| the end of the cut was converted 
into a new parking lot.
Program Incomplete 
Approximately 2.5 million dol­
lars has been expended to reha- 
bilate the college’s educational 
buildings and yet this program is 
: incomplete.
What lies ahead for CIT? The 
I mounds of soil give evidence that 
construction has not come to a 
standstill.
The Industrial Administration 
| is next on the rehabilitation list, 
j Contracts for the college, which 
! will stand on the corner of Frew 
and Tech Streets, should be let 
! within the next month.
In addition to this immediate 
plan, the college also is drawing 
I blueprints for new dormitories 
; for men.
I The architect’s plans call for a 
library. Such a project would cost 
150 thousand dollars, a sum which 
at present is unobtainable. A 
i theater building and a student un­
ion are two other addition:
| the college has in view.
Skibo Problem 
Meanwhile Skibo contini 
be a problem. The questi 
; whether to repair the old 
, ing or tear it down is being 
i sidered. However, in the al 
of funds for a new student 
i the school is shinning up the 
teria and adding improveme
In th 
night e 
Horizo 
he mo 
:iT pr 
{ram. \ 
:ollege 
•tops" )
lat
to
of
be*
field.

---------------------------------------------------

Page 6TAMANTHURSDAY, OCTOBER 26, 1950
Graduate Labs Doing Research 
For Industry And Uncle SamJ
ONR And AEC Financing Several Projects;
Metallurgical Lab Was First On Campus
by Fred Sonnenberg
Since industry turns tc college and university laboratories for 
research work, the graduate labs at Carnegie Tech would be ex­
pected to be scenes of study in almost every engineering and science 
field. ?---------------------- —-
In past years the Carnegie re­
search program has primarily aid­
ed industry in its fundamental 
problems, but in recent years more 
research has been done for the 
government.
Government Agencies
Some of the governmental 
agencies financing CIT's graduate 
research are the US Office of Nav­
al Research (ONR), the US Navy 
Bureau of Ordnance (NBC), the 
US Atomic Energy Commission 
(AEC), and the National Advis­
ory Committee on Aeronautics 
(NACA).
Other departments’ projects are 
financed by research fellowships, 
special grants, or the school. These 
are the laboratory “experiments” 
of the graduate school.
Metal's Oldest Lab
Being the oldest research de­
partment on campus, the Metals 
Research Laboratory has an in­
ternational reputation for being 
outstanding in its work. Doctors 
Derge and Philbrook are now en­
gaged on an ONR project: the 
physical chemistry of steel mak­
ing, and Dr. Birchenall and Dr. 
Mehl are busy on an ONR project 
on the kinetics of reaction in the 
solid state.
Dr. Mehl, the metals lab head, 
is working on the statistical na­
ture of the fatigue of metals for 
the NACA while Dr. Smoluchow- ! 
ski is studying the properties of 
grain boundaries and lattice im­
perfections for the AEC.
Project In “Life”
The million dollar nuclear re­
search center and synchro-cyclo- 
tron at Saxonburg, Pa., is the 
scene of most of the physics de­
partment’s studies. Professor De- 
Benedetti is studying instru­
mentation in connection with the 
cyclotron and conducting exper­
iments in quantum electro­
dynamics.
Other work in physics is being 
done on campus, such as Dr. 
Pugh’s project on the Hall-effect 
of ferro-magnetic alloys and Dr. 
Esterman’s work on the proper­
ties of semi-conductors at liquid 
helium temperatures.
As shown in the October 23 
"Life,” Dr. Pugh has also been 
busy working on metallic jet 
charges. This work led to the de­
velopment of the new anti-rtank 
weapon revealed in the Korean 
war.
23 Years Old
Up in the new wing of Engi­
neering Hall, the chemistry de­
partment is doing research on 
many phases of modern chemis­
try. Dr. F. D. Rossini, new de­
partment head, brought with him 
from the Bureau of Standards the 
23 year old, American Petroleum 
Institute Project No. 6 on frac­
tionation, analysis, purification, 
and properties of hydrocarbons 
from petroleum.
The NBO has Professor Parr 
studying the fundamental chem­
istry of propellent burning. In 
addition to several ONR projects, 
the chemists are busy experiment­
ing on nuclear chemistry, corro­
sion, and the thermodynamic 
properties of binary alloys for the 
AEC.
Slowed Up
Although its research program 
was slowed down by construction 
in EH, the chemical engineering 
department has been studying the 
velocity distribution and friction 
n various conduits under Profes- 
or Rothfus’ direction. Dr. Bech- 
namm has been working on the 
mechanism of catalytic reactions; 
*nd Dr. Monrad, mass transfer 
through turbulent fluids.
Also interested in fluid flow in 
•onduits, but in this case open 
nes, is the civil engineering de­
partment. Professor Lauschey is 
working on dynamics of turbu-
tbrough short conduits in the new 
civil laboratories. *
Develop Equipment
Now that more emphasis is 
placed on dynamics of structures 
and fluids, not just statics, fluctu­
ating loads on reinforced con­
crete structures and the effects of 
vibrations and fatigue on bridges 
and industrial buildings are the 
projects of Dr. Graham and Mr. 
Stewart.
Most of the testing and measur­
ing equipment for these experi­
ments has had to be developed by 
the civil department.
Electrolytic Brain
In Machinery Hall the electric­
al engineering department is 
working on magnetic amplifiers 
for the ONR. Some day these am­
plifiers will replace vacuum-tube 
controls.
Dr. Bright is studying the elec­
trolytic tank anti-log computer, a 
machine for solving quite intricate 
differential equations; and the 
expontial line-pulse transformer 
project is under the direction of 
Dr. Williams.
Other EE i-esearch subjects are 
hydroien thyratrons for radar 
work, and high speed switching 
[Continued on page 7]
Clubs Begin Forming 
At School’s Beginning
Buddy Overend .Was First Veep;
Need For Governing Board Seen
By Shirley Ploeger
As students are naturally a sociable group, clubs and organiza­
tions began forming almost as soon as the school began. The devel­
opment of the clubs and social groups is a barometer of student in­
terests and trends. The following organizations are the ones which
exhibit the main interests of the^----------------------------------------------------
students.
Arthur A. Hamerschlag
First President of Carnegie * * *
Hamerschlag 
First Man To 
Direct Carnegie
First man to hold the position 
of President of Carnegie Institute 
of Technology was Arthur Arton 
Hamerschlag.
President Hamerschlag was born 
in New York on November 25, 
1872. His education began in pub­
lic schools and was continued at 
the Hebrew Technical Institute. 
He later attended Columbia Uni­
versity.
Director in 1903
Among the positions held by 
Dr. Hamerschlag were instructor 
of mechanical drawing at Hirsch 
School, superintendent *of St. 
George’s Evening Trade School, 
and consultant for the New York 
Evening Trade School, the Boy’s 
Preparatory Trade School, and 
the Highland Falls Evening Trade 
School.
On November 10, 1903, he was 
elected director of the Carnegie 
Technical Schools (first name for 
Carnegie Institute of Technology). 
In 1918 his title was changed to 
President.
Retired In 1922
His administration was charac­
terized by the physical growth of 
the campus. Every instructional 
building except the gymnasium, 
| the addition to Engineering Hall 
and the building for the School of 
Industrial Administration were 
completed during his administra-
Charles E. Wilson
Outstanding Carnegie Alumnus * * *
Alumni Hold 
Importan t Jobs 
In Professions
During its 50-year history, Car­
negie Tech has educated and grad­
uated many students who have 
become leaders of industry and 
the arts.
One of these outstanding alumni 
is Charles E. Wilson, president of 
General Motors Corporation, who 
will deliver the Fiftieth Anniver­
sary Address at the luncheon on 
Saturday.
Upon graduation from Carnegie, 
he became a student apprentice at 
Westinghouse. In April, 1919, he 
joined the General Motors Corpo­
ration as chief engineer and sales 
manager and worked his way up 
from this position to become pres- 
dent ifi 1940.
Movie Man
Carnegie’s drama department 
has sent many outstanding per­
sonalities into the entertainment 
world. Perhaps the most notable 
‘'dramat” is Arthur Kennedy who 
is regarded as one of Broadway’s 
better actors and a new star on 
the Hollywood hoiizon. His per­
formance in the forthcoming 
movie, “The Glass Menagerie”, is 
outstanding. -He was seen as 
“Biff” in “Death of a Salesman” 
on Broadway two years ago and 
gave a striking performance as 
Kirk Douglas’ brother in thej 
movie, “Champion”.
The drama department can also 
boast such graduates as Robert j 
Cummings, the handsome and tal- j 
ented movie star, and Howard Da j 
Silva who created the role of 
“Jud” in the original production of 
“Oklahoma!” on Broadway. He 
has been seen in many movies and 
wrill be remembered as the captain 
in “Two Years Before the Most”.
WAC Officer
Theodore R e p p 1 i e r, presi­
dent of the Advertising Council, I 
Inc., was responsible for those 
“Join the Marines”, “Buy War 
Bonds” signs that appeared every­
where during the war. Mary Mil- ! 
ligan, a graduate of the secretarial 
school in 1932, is now Lt. Col. of j 
the WAC’s.
James E. Lose is vice-president; 
of Carnegie-Ilinois Steel Corpora­
tion. Alfred Stahle, vice-presi-; 
dent of McGraw-Hill Publishing, 
Corp., was an outstanding editor! 
of the 1919 Tartan. Herbert Spen­
cer has held the positons of for­
mer president of Pennsylvania 
College for Women, director of the ' 
Samuel Kress Foundation, and the 
president of Bucknell University, ;
Industrial Leaders
Frederick McConnell, a former 
drama student, is head of the j 
Cleveland Playhouse and is con­
sidered to be the top Community 
Theatre man in the country. Floyd 
W. Bremmer is executive vice- 
president of the National Supply 
Co.; Oscard L. Pringle is vice- 
president of the Columbia Steel 
Co.; and John C. Udd is managing 
director of the Sheraton Hotels 
Corp. of Canada.
Well-known personalities who' 
attended but did not complete their j 
education at Carnegie are Herman | 
Weckler, executive vice-president 
of the Chrysler Corp.; Earle Weild, j 
accomplished pianist; W. A. Week- j 
er, president of General Motors in ! 
j Canada; and Vaughn Monroe, pop­
ular radio and recording per-;
Student organization occurred 
within a week after the first Class 
came to Tech. Class colors and 
cheers wrere chosen and the offi­
cers were elected. The first vice- 
president is now the Director of 
Athletics, Buddy Overend.
Held Purse 
As the other schools, Margaret 
Morrison, School of Science, 
School of Industries, and Fine 
Arts were formed, they, too, elect­
ed class officers to unify the class­
es.
When the various clubs sprang 
up to meet the interests of the 
students, they were placed under 
the Board of Student Activities. 
The Board, consisting of student 
leaders and faculty members was 
empowered with the purse strings 
of the various non-athletic or­
ganizations.
New Council 
In 1923 it was consolidated with 
the Student Council, an. organiza­
tion in charge of class and senate 
elections. The new body was 
composed of the class and senate 
officers of the various schools. 
After the war, when class offi­
cers were discontinued, Council 
drew its membership from the 
three colleges (Industries and 
Science were united into the Col­
lege of Engineering) with one vot­
ing member for every hundred 
students represented.
Student Council, as the new or­
ganization was called, possessed 
powrers greater than those of pres­
ent years. The band, glee clubs, 
cheer leaders, publications, Car­
negie Union* freshmen regula­
tions, and other non-athletic ac­
tivities were placed under its jur­
isdiction. In 1938, Council was 
powerful enough to remove the 
editor of the Tartan for printing 
derogatory items about Council.
Journalism Grew 
In the past few years, class re­
organization has again been at­
tempted on a larger scale. By 
next year, each class will have its 
own president, secretary, treas­
urer, and a vice-president from 
each of the three colleges. The 
purpose is to enable each class to 
work as a social organization now 
and as an alumni unit later.
Journalism soon flourished in 
the next school. The first issue 
of the Thistle came out in 1906 
complete with the menu of the 
senior banquet, jokes, poetry, and 
short stories.
Puppet For Humor 
The Tartan appeared in the Oc­
tober of 1906 mainly as an an­
nouncement sheet. It changed to 
a news sheet with ever increasing 
improvements in style and make­
up. It has copped the Pace Mak­
er’s Trophy once and several times 
has taken the All-American rat­
ing. During three of the past four 
semesters it has captured these 
All-American honors.
As no college is complete with­
out a humor magazine, the Pup­
pet for every fireplace,” it strug­
gled for contributions and sub­
scriptions.
Scottie Banned 
In 1940 the Puppet was reor­
ganized into the Scottie. The 
Scottie broadened the scope of 
humor and lowered it to the com­
mon run of student taste. As the 
Scottie’s taste degraded, the cir­
culation improved, until one day 
in 1949, the Scottie was banned 
from the campus.
From the remnants of the Scot­
tie came its more elevated cousin, 
the Scot. The Scot, now publish­
es good features, cartoons, and : 
columns, but like the old Puppet, j 
it too is running into financial 
difficulties.
As becomes an engineering
scientific and technical interests 
appeared in 1936, entitled the 
Technical. The Technical now 
claims the distinction of being one 
of the two college technical maga­
zines subscribed to by the Library 
of Congress.
Band Got Cold 
Musical organizations have 
come and gone with the fads of 
the times, but. the Glee Clubs 
and Band have remained popular 
throughout the years.. While the 
mandolin, guitar ,and stringers 
clubs have faded, the others have 
improved. A Glee Club was or­
ganized in the charter class and 
has existed up to the present. The 
Women’s Glee Club began in 1926.
The Band started out in 1915 
with blue uniforms. In 1922 they 
made their first appaerance in 
kilts at Notre Dame. The warm 
enthusiasm which greeted them 
made up only in part for the zero 
weather and four inches of snow.
Greeks Came 
Social clubs were not neglected 
at Carnegie, for fraternities and 
sororities soon became an integ­
ral part of campus life. Within 
five months after the first class 
started, a group of Engineers 
banded together to form the Slide 
Rule Club. Later the name was 
dignified to Sigma Rho and then 
[Continued on page 7]
Thomas S. Baker
Second President of Carnegie * * *
Thomas Baker 
Was Second 
CIT President
On February 5, 1923, Thomas 
Stockham Baker became the sec­
ond President of Carnegie Insti­
tute of Technology.
President Baker received the 
AB degree in 1891 and the PhD 
degree in 1895 from Johns Hop­
kins University. He was awarded 
an honorary Doctor of Laws from 
the University of Delaware in 1924 
and the honorary Doctor of Sci­
ence degree from Duquesne Uni­
versity in 1928 and Lafayette Col­
lege in 1932.
Dr. Baker studied at Leipsiz and 
other German universities and 
then returned to Johns Hopkins to 
lecture on Modern German litera­
ture. After serving 10 years at 
Johns Hopkins, he became director 
of Tome Institute and served in 
this position for another 10 years.
In 1919 he became secretary of 
Carnegie Institute of Technology.
Upon the retirement of Car­
negie’s first president in 1922, Dr. 
Baker was appointed acting presi­
dent. The following year he be-

---------------------------------------------------

THURSDAY, OCTOBER 26, 1950TASWMLNPage 7
Drama School Begun In 1914; 
Endo wment Greatly Increased
[Continued from page 2] 
reality. This formal opening took 
place on October 16, 1905.
Hamerschlag President
Arthur Arton Hamerschlag, who 
had served as consultant for many 
famous trade schools, was ap­
pointed director of the new in­
stitution on November 10, 1903. 
Later his title was changed to 
president. A great organizer and 
builder, Hamerschlag supervised 
the construction of every major 
academic building, except the 
gymnasium and those bulidings 
' currently being completed.
A permanent dormitory system 
for men was bgun in 1915 with 
the construction of McGill and 
Boss Halls. Five other permanent 
buildings for the same purpose 
were constructed in the following 
three years. In 1910 all the tech­
nical courses "were lengthened to 
four years and shortly afterward 
the school was incorporated and 
designated as a degree-granting 
institution by the Commonwealth 
of Pennsylvania.
Drama Started
In 1914, Carnegie undertook the 
establishment of the nation’s first 
degree-granting dramatics depart­
ment. Since the drama depart­
ment was started, more than 500 
plays have been produced in the 
little theater among the most no­
table of which have been the 
series of Shakespearean produc­
tions, the majority under the di­
rection of B. Iden Payne, former 
director of the Shakespeare Me­
morial Theater at Stratford-on- 
Avon.
Immediately after the first 
world war the English and social 
studies of the separate schools 
were brought under a single dean. 
From this consilodation has grown 
the present Division of Humanistic 
and Social Studies and the corre­
sponding increase in the amount 
of general studies in all courses.
The Department of Military Sci­
ence and Tactics was created just 
following World War I to operate 
the Reserve Officers’ Training 
Corps at Carnegie. This develop­
ment was a direct result of the 
war training conducted at Car­
negie and other schools.
Further Endowment
With the death of Carnegie in 
1919, the Carnegie Corporation as­
sumed the Founder’s obligations 
toward the school. In planning 
for the future of CIT, the Corpor­
ation took a survey which re­
sulted in the dropping of certain 
courses, the establishment of en­
rollment limits and changes in the 
administration organization.
The Corporation agreed to in­
crease the permanent endowment 
of the school by eight million dol­
lars in 1946 if the school admin­
istration could raise half that 
amount by that date. On July 1, 
19461, Carnegie, having raised its 
required share, received the prom­
ised additional funds. From that 
point on CIT has had to compete 
for Corporation funds on the same 
basis as any other institution.
In 1922 Dr. Hamerschlag re­
signed, feeling that he had made 
his contribution to the develop­
ment of the school, and that the 
task of further expansion should 
be passed on to a younger educa­
tor. Thus Dr. Thomas S. Baker, 
who had come to Carnegie in 1919 
as secretary, became president of 
CIT.
“Transition”
While President Hamerschlag’s 
leadership had seen organization 
and physical growth of the cam­
pus, Dr. Baker’s can be character­
ized by the word “transition.’' 
During the term of the second 
president, Carnegie changed from 
a technical institute offering pri­
marily a vocational curriculum to 
a professional college with stand­
ards comparable to the best of that 
period.
It was during this period that 
interest in research
work first began to grow. This 
period also saw the start of the 
Bureau of Metallurgical Research, 
the Coal Research Laboratory, and 
the Carnegie Library School. An­
other important development was 
the formation of the molecular 
physics lab which in 1943, brought 
international fame to Carnegie 
when its director, Professor Otto 
Stern, won the Nobel Prize in phy­
sics.
Doherty Next
After the resignation of Dr. 
Baker, Dr. Robert E. Doherty be­
came president of the school, a 
position he was to hold for 12 
years. He was instrumental in 
instituting the Carnegie Plan of 
Professional Education which aims 
to combine a solid core of funda­
mental knowledge with an ability 
tomse this knowledge to solve the 
varied problems of professional 
and social life. The recently de­
ceased Dr. Doherty was succeeded 
in August by Dr. J. C. Warner.
Evidence‘of Carnegie’s forefront 
position in the field of professional 
education was given in 1948 when, 
at a conference to study this very 
problem, Carnegie stood out as one 
of the few schools able to report 
significant progress and success.
Financial Program
Rising costs have forced an ex- 
i pansion of fund raising programs 
I during the past few years, but 
| largely through a recent all-out 
! drive in the last five years Car- 
| negie has succeeded in raising its 
| capital funds to over 20 million 
dollars. The most noteworthy of 
the grants received during Doher­
ty’s administration include those 
from the Maurice Falk Founda­
tion, the Westinghouse Electric 
Corporation and the W. L. and 
May T. Mellon Foundation.
Recent years have seen expan­
sion in many fields at Carnegie. 
The social relations program has 
been expanded till it now forms 
one of the most important parts 
of the general curriculum. Grad­
uate departments have been high­
ly developed—especially with the 
recent addition of the Graduate 
School of Industrial Administra­
tion made possible with the six 
million dollar Mellon grant.
New Construction
New construction programs have 
made possible the addition of 
Morewood Gardens, the new 
cyclotron at Saxtonburg, the 
planned Industrial administration 
building, and the addition to En­
gineering Hall. Renovation of the 
existing buldings and facilities has 
also been going on at a rapid rate.
In selecting Carnegie’s next 
president the Board of Trustees 
chose an educator, scientist, ad­
ministrator, and author who knows 
intimately the school’s past de­
velopment and its potentialities 
for the future. Dr. Warner will be 
inaugurated as the fourth presi­
dent of Carnegie Tech during the 
investure and Fiftieth Anniver­
sary celebrations scheduled for 
Homecoming.
Change In Plans
The address Dr. Doherty 
had prepared to deliver to the 
official delegates of Carnegie 
will be given instead by Dr. 
E. D. Smith, long-time friend 
and colleague of the late pres­
ident. The address will be giv­
en at the official luncheon on 
Friday afternoon.
Walter J. Blenko, chairman 
of the executive committee of 
the board of trustees will pre­
side, with the principal speak­
ers to be Dr. Warner and Dr. 
Smith.
Doherty Administration 
Brings Improvements
Adopted During His Reign 
Tremendous Magnitude
Changes 
Were Of
From 1936 to 
Robert E. Doherty, 
and yet, the most 
j versial in that the
Research
[Continued from page 6] 
phenomena, a subject on. interest 
to the electrical industry.
Fluids Again
The study of fluid streams shows 
up again in the mechanical engi­
neering department. Professor 
Forestal’s project is the analytical 
and experimental aspects of the 
mixing of fluid streams.
Other subjects of interest to the 
mechanicals are the use of elec­
troplated antimony as a strain in­
dicator and the use of stresscoat 
on materials. Stresscoat is a lac­
quer that fails when stress is ap­
plied.
This summary of the graduate 
school’s work shows only small 
section of the actual research be- ! 
ing undertaken. Many names and ! 
projects have been omitted, but I 
few are less important than those ’
Ir. 2inb*ri Ernest loforiy
January 22, 1885—October 19, 1950
Curriculum
[Continued from page I] 
years in the first step of a cor­
rective measure.
Two years later the name of the 
school was changed to Carnegie 
Institute of Technology, the pow­
er to confer degrees was granted 
by the State, and the four schools 
became divisions, . lated changed 
to separate colleges of the Insti­
tution. The first professional de- 
gi’ees were conferred in 1915, 
consisting of electrical, mechani­
cal, and metallurgical engineers.
ROTC Comes 
In 1918 the Langley Laboratory 
of aeronautics was built, and the 
first summer session began. The 
next year a Reserve Officers 
Training Corps program was set 
up. About this same time, a rev­
olutionary step was being taken 
in courses dealing with the 
Humanities.
A division of Applied Psycho­
logy wras established, which even­
tually merged with the depart­
ments of English, history, eco­
nomics, and modern languages to 
become the Division of General 
Studies. Today the same depart­
ment is known by the name of 
the Division of Humanistic and 
Social Studies.
Options Offered 
In an attempt to consolidate the 
curricula of the College of In- 
dutries and the College of En­
gineering, they were merged in 
1932. Options in building con­
struction, works management, and 
heating and ventilation were made 
available to students in the Col­
lege of Engineering.
Another step in the formation 
of the present institution was 
started in 1930, when the Carne­
gie Library was added and was 
partially completed in 1934 when 
it became accredited as a gradu­
ate school.
Two New Schools 
The two most recent changes 
and additions have been the con­
version of the College of Engin­
eering to the College of Engineer­
ing and Science in 1945 and the 
addition of the School of Indus-Ufttttl
Organizations
[Continued from page 6] 
became Beta Theta Pi. Other 
early social clubs such as the Pio­
neer Tech Club and the Tech- 
mont Club became in time Delta 
Upsilon ard Theta Xi.
At one time or another, 21 na­
tional fraternities have been rep­
resented on campus. During and 
after the depression, several fad­
ed out until there are now 12 act­
ive national fraternities at CIT.
Sororities were not far behind 
fraternities in forming. In 1908, 
Delta Kappa Epsilon was formed, 
and shortly thereafter many oth­
er locals in Arts and Maggie 
Murphy saw the light of day. For 
several years, secret societies in 
Maggie Murph perished under an 
administrative ban. Later they 
were reinstalled and between 1943 
and 1945 seven locals applied for 
national charters.
And Honoraries
As in all schools, students ap­
peared with exceptional ability 
in some field of endeavor. Soon 
honoraries come on campus to 
recognize these students. Tau Beta 
Pi, the national engineering fra­
ternity was organized in 1916. 
Activities and leadership honor­
aries sprang up in the form of 
Mortar Board and Omicron Delta 
Kappa for seniors, Delta Skull 
for junior men, and Scimitars and 
Cwens for the sophomores.
Alpha Phi Omega, the service 
honorary was founded in 1928 and 
every year adds something new 
j to its already broad field of cam- 
| pus service. The “C” book, stu­
dent book exchange, and election 
! duties are but a few of the many 
I services rendered by this organi- 
! zation.
Church Groups
To meet the religious needs of 
| the students, many organizations 
| for the various faiths came into 
j existence, such as the Newman 
j Club, Canterbury Club, Technon,
| and the YM and YWCA. The “Y"
| has broadened ¿ts scope and now 
i sponsors picnics, social events, 
j and retreats. The YW is res pon- 
| sible for the big-little sister move-
1950, under the guidance of its third president, 
Carnegie Tech experienced the most controversial, 
progressive period in its history. It was contro- 
educational changes initiated during these years
—-— —----------?were or s-ucii magnitude that they
! could not have been taken lightly 
i by neither educators, students, or 
I alumni.
Firm Convictions
Before coming to Carnegie, Do- 
; herty, through expei'ience in both 
| education and industry, had es­
tablished firm convictions which 
! in later years were to evolve into 
; such things as the Carnegie Plan, 
j deemphasis of Intercollegiate Ath- 
! letics, increase of endowments, in- 
1 crease of research work, better- 
; ment of the physical plant, im­
proved relations with the faculty, 
and a reduction of the intensity 
of the engineer’s program to allow 
for more outside activity.
| For the most part, writh the pro- 
; bable exception of the Carnegie 
! Plan and his athletic policy, Doh- 
! erty’s work in the above educa- 
I tional policies escaped the notice 
i of a majoi'ity of both students and 
: alumni. During his 14 years at 
Carnegie, Doherty managed to 
| nearly double the school’s endow- 
! ment from $16,756,000 to its pres- 
| ent high of * $30,000,000, making 
i Carnegie Tech the second heaviest 
; endowed engineering school in the 
country. Not included in this fig- 
j ure is 3.5 million dollars which 
has been taken out of the capital 
fund for the present building pro­
gram.
Aided Research
Another important element of 
the 14-year Doherty administra­
tion which is often overlooked is 
I the development of the research 
i program. As compared to a $156,- 
000 research budget in 1936, Car­
negie now boasts an extensive and 
wide-range program enveloping 
| around $1,000,000 annually. Pres­
ently, Carnegie is carrying on im- 5 portant research in three fields— 
' Coal, Metals, and Nuclear. The lat­
ter research unit centers around 
; the new synchro-cyclotron build- 
I ings at Saxonburg; nearly $1,800,- 000 has been invested into this 
; project.
From the first annual report he 
made in 1936-37, Doherty fought 
vigorously for improvements in 
Carnegie’s physical plant. The first 
developments in this direction 
started early in his administration 
when property on the north side 
| of Forbes street and between 
j Beeler and Morewood was pur- 
| chased in several sections. Within 
i the next fourteen years, these pur­
chases continued until facilities for 
j students had been increased 
I through the addition of the Union, 
| fraternity-dormitories for 10 fra­
ternities, and a beautiful dormi- 
| tory-apartment bulding for wo* 
I men.
Building Program
In the last years of his stay in 
; office, Doherty succeeded in 
the beginning of a buildin 
I gram which has already 
j Carnegie a new wing on En;
| ing Hall, and which will 
! building to house the new 
trial Administration school 
near future. Included i 
; bulding project was an ex 
g program which
seei
2 PIO-
en
remo< 
the n 
officeiin Ii
Halls
W
contributed tremendous 
smooth relations which

---------------------------------------------------

Page 8TAftVAKTHURSDAY, OCTOBER 26, 1950
Tartan Advertisers
FOUR BARBERS TO 
SERVE YOU
If You’re Particular. See the
TECH BARBER SHOP
Corner of Craig and Forbes
RODGERS
DAIRY
TRY OUR
HAMBURGERS
Mode with 100% pure beef 
U. S. Government inspected
LARGE MILK SHAKES
Mode with pure whole 
milk
RODGERS
Dairy Stores
3905 FORBES STREET 
Near Boquet
4619 CENTER AVENUE 
Near Craig
5414 WALNUT STREET 
Shadyside 
Other stores downtown
RENT
a typewriter
and keep up 
with your work
Portables 
Standard Office Machines 
Wide Carriage Machines
Rates as low as
53.50 Mr B#",‘
3 Mos. $8.75
FIRST RENTAL APPLIES 
TO PURCHASE PRICE
Fort Pitt 
Typewriter Co.
•44 Liberty Avenue
AT. 1-8320
mm Changes
‘'Her Royal Highness of Song”
JUNE CHRISTY
On Leave From Stan Kenton's Orchestra 
CO. 1-4200 LENNY LITMAN'S SHOWS at
8:30, 10:30,818
Liberty Ave.COPA12:30
Weleoine Alumni!!
After the University celebration 
COME TO
HAHNS
for
• TECH PENNANTS • * GREETING CARDS
• TECH STICKERS « SOUVENIRS
3806 FORBES ST., OAKLAND
“Tech's Oivn”
VAUGHN MONROE
AND HIS ORCHESTRA . . . FEATURING Z1GGY 
TALENT, THE MOONMAIDS AND THE MOONMEN, 
PLUS THE ALL-STAR CAMEL CARAVAN
Thurs. Night? Nov. 2
CHES-A-RENA
CHESWICK, PA.
Dancing 9 to 1 — Tickets Sold at the Deer 
$2.20 per person—tax included
"FRATERNITIES GET YOUR 
HOMECOMING SUPPLIES AT 
THE METAL WAREHOUSE"
Aluminum 
Brass 
Bronze 
Copper 
Mon el 
Nickel 
Inconel 
Monel Clad 
Nickel Clad 
Inconel Clad Rosslyn Metal 
Stainless Steel 
Primary Nickel 
Ferro Alloys
Non-Corrosive Fastenings and 
Accessories 
Fittings and Valves 
afety Equipment 
Seamless Steel Tubing 
Welded Steel Tubing 
Boiler Tubes 
Refrigeration and Air Conditioning 
Supplies 
Welding Machines 
Welding Wire 
Welding Supplies
Complete stocks carried in all five warehouse#.
t ;r
WILLIAMS & COMPANY, Inc
General Office and Main Warehouse 
9#1 Pennsylvania Ave., Pgh. 33, Pa., CEdar 1-MM 
Cleveland - Cincinnati - Columbus - Toledo
M6.U.S Mtt.OfF
More BOUNCE To The Ounce
FRANKIE GUSTINE'S
»Newly Remodeled Restaurant
Over $60,000 spent to put the finest 
restaurant in the Oakland area.
HAVE LUNCH OR DINNER WITH 
US AT YOUR CONVENIENCE
THE GREEKS
Always known as the traditionalm/
spot to Tech students
UNIVERSITY GRILL
4605 FORBES ST.
SC 1-9178
Lunches - - Dinners 
At Student Prices <
Mr. Abrams welcomes you ALUMNI 
as an old friend.
STOP IN 
AND VISIT ME AT
CAMPUS 
CLEANERS
4609 Forbes Street
Dry Cleaning Laundry
—¦¦

---------------------------------------------------

> THURSDAY, OCTOBER 26, 1950TAWANPage 9
Welcome CIT Grads
To and from the game . . .
STOP!! . . . ATSD REFRESH YOURSELF
CRAIG FORBES PHARMACY
4526 FORBES STREET—CORNER CRAIG
Save Time and Trouble
USE A
Rubber Stamp
for ? SIGNATURES
? ADDRESSING
? LAUNDRY MARKING
ONE DAY SERVICE 
Call
IAS. IA S.TTIEWS & COA
MUseum 1-8500
3942 FORBES STREET PITTSBURGH 13, PA.
In Princeton, New Jersey, there is 
always a friendly gathering of 
Princeton students at the Campus 
Center. And as in university cam­
pus haunts everywhere, ice-cold 
Coca-Cola helps make these get- 
togethers something to remember. 
As a refreshing pause from the 
study grind, or when the gang 
gathers around—Coke belongs.
Plus H State Tax
Ask Jor it either way ... both 
trade-marks mean the same thing.
BOTTLED UNDER AUTHORITY Of THE COCA-COIA COMPANY IV
COCA-COLA BOTTLING CO., OF PA., PITTSBURGH, PA
© 1950, Th« Coca-Cola Compony
SQUIRREL HILL
HOBBV SHOP
Complete line of all model supplies
Open Evenings Till 9:00
Take 68 or 69 Street Car to Phillips Street
Welcome Alumni
We are happy to see all our 
good friends hack.
FOR 28 YEARS
Gammons Restaurant
' OPEN TO SERVE YOU NIGHT OR DAY
3703 Forbes St., 954 Liberty Ave.
206 N. Highland Ave., East Liberty
Book Bargains
PUBLISHER’S 
REMAINDER SALE!
STARTING WED., NOV. 1
Hundreds of important titles you will be proud to add 
to your libraryall published .to sell at tw;ce to five times 
their present prices—only a limited number of each title 
—come in and make your selections.
Prices . . 49c 98c $1.98
C.I.T. Book Store
Everything in Flowers
Cidas
Your Campus Florist
CORSAGES 
Orchids .... $3.50 
Gardenias or Roses $3.00
Free Delivery 
Ma-Sc 1-1300 
3719 FORBES ST., OAKLAND
Your I.D. CARD Means
1 Off °n Jewe,ry13/0 wTT Watch Repairs
TIME SHOP
3623 Fifth Ave. SC 1-7077
(Fifth Avenne at Atwood St.)
Time’s Getting Short!
IS YOL R 
FLOAT READY?
Paints • Tools • Incidentals 
At Our 10% Festival Discount
OAKLAND HARDWARE
3606 FORBES STREET 
MA. 1-0923
UNIVERSITY 
RECREATION
Bowling
AFTERNOON, SAT. & SUN. 
BOWLING
407-409 CRAIG ST.
SC. 1-9307
EXPERT REPAIRS
Radios, Phonographs, Appliances, Television
Sales and Service
LEWIS RADIO 
ELECTRIC CO.
115 Oakland Ave. - MA. 1-4211 
Bring Your Radio 
Problems To Us
26 Years Experience 
At Your Service
RENT A TYPEWRITER
*4.00
A Month
3 MONTHS 
FOR $10
TYPEWRITERS $20 50
All Kinds as Low as
AmericanTypewriterCo.
11 Wood St. (fl 1-1019Convenient Parking VVi 1 1 V I t
Let’s go to
ISALY'S
Milk Shakes 
Big Ice Cream Cones 
Klondikes 
Tasty Lunches
Three Stores in the College
District
5808 Forbes St.. Squirrel Hill
3714 Forbes St., Oakland
Main Plant:
3380 Boulevard of the Allies

---------------------------------------------------

Page 10TAWANTHURSDAY, OCTOBER 26, 1950
BY jL&Afr
Looking back over the past half-century of athletics at 
Carnegie, one can easily see recorded in the historical an­
nals the rise and fall of a football empire. The Tartan le­
gions began their gridiron march against local teams that 
had instituted football as an intercollegiate sport in the early 
days of the twentieth century.
Gradually the Plaid took on opponents of a high caliber, 
at first suffering lopsided defeats at the hands of these 
stronger foes, but eventually gaining the position where 
even these grid powers began to fall before the Skibo on­
slaught. For many of the years during the period from 
1920 to 1940. the Plaid gridiron machine was one of the most 
feared teams in the nation, taking the measure of such teams 
as W & J, Notre Dame, Pitt, and other football powers.
- Then came the period of de-emphasis, which saw the Plaid 
fall from its lofty gridiron position. By 1940 the Tartan football 
machine was only a spark cf its former power. Through 1948 
Carnegie victories were few and far between, the fiist win in six 
years coming in the final game of the ’48 season. Thus Carnegie 
football completed the cycle, from insignificance to greatness and 
back again.
Then came the period of de-emphasis, which saw the 
Plaid fall from its lofty gridiron position. By 1940 the Tartan 
football machine was only a spark of its former powef. 
Through 1948 Carnegie victories were few and far between, 
the first win in six years coming in the final game of the 
’48 season. Thus Carnegie football completed the cycle, from 
insignificance to greatness and back again.
With the arrival in 1949 of Dr. Eddie Baker and Ed 
Hirschberg as head coach and line coach, respectively, the 
football picture at Tartan U. began to brighten considerably. 
Since the two Eddie’s entered the local scene, Plaid victor­
ies have been the rule rather than the exception, although 
the caliber of the opposition has of necessity not been as high 
as it was during the “era of supremacy.”
Now, of course, the big question in the minds of interested 
Tartan football followers concerns what the future will bring 
in regard to the gridiron sport at Carnegie. It must be remem­
bered that the present administrative policy of the school places 
education first and athletics second, a policy that we feel is basic­
ally sound.
To the contrary, it is quite possible for athletics in gen-
Sugar Bowl
The Sugar Bowl derived its 
name when the stadium, 
which is the home field of 
Tulane University, was built 
on the plantation of Etienne 
de Bore, a colonial planter 
who founded one of the na­
tion’s greatest industries.
Bore gave recognition to 
Louisiana when it’s Mid-Win­
ter Sports Association was 
given the title of the “Sugar 
Bowl,” and the name was ap­
propriately applied when the 
post-season classic was begun.
Former Skibo Star. Al Irwin, 
Gives Highlights Of Grid Past
Such Teams As Notre Dame, North Carolina
Have Been Beaten By Carnegie Aggregations
In an interview with Al Irwin, who is a fromer CIT grid star 
and present assistant coach on the Skibo’s football squad, several in­
teresting facts were turned up.
It was in 1916 that CIT first scored a touchdown against a Uni­
versity of Pittsburgh team. A1-* '
though the Skibos lost by a 13-7 
count, the lone touchdown that 
they did manage to record was a 
eral. and football in particular, to operate successfully within history making one
the framework provided bv the school. Consequently, the . There. is an interesting and . " .... ... ironic story connected with thereturn of Carnegie to a respectable position in the gridnon victory over Notre Dame in 1926.
We would like Coach Knute Rockne’s mighty ag-picture is definitely not out of the question 
it known at this point, however, that we are certainly not 
in favor of an attempt to again meet class A opponents, 
such as Notre Dame, Army, Michigan, or Penn. It seems 
rather ridiculous that Carnegie should even attempt to play 
schools that have an enrollment almost 10 times as great 
and that subsidize football to an extent that couldn’t be 
approached here.
On the other hand, neither do we feel that the Plaid 
should continue to meet schools as small as Davis & Elkins, 
Bethany, and Marietta. Certainly the results of the past two 
years indicate that such class C schools are not on a par 
with the improved Skibos of the Baker regime. With neither 
of these types of opponents deemed desirable, the logical 
question at this point concerns just what teams should pro­
vide the opposition.
In this connection we would recommend that Carnegie main­
tain a schedule that would include strictly teams of a class B 
status. What is meant by class B can probably be best ex­
plained by presenting a sample gridiron schedule under this plan. 
Such a list of Tartan opponents for the fall sport would include 
W & J, Lehigh, Case, Lafayette, Bucknell, Gettysburg, Franklin 
and Marshall, and Syracuse. Admittedly there are no “easy” 
teams on this schedule, but we are of the opinion that the Tartans 
are well on thé way toward being able to meet opponents of 
this class on an equal basis.
Many people will probably object to this plan, contend­
ing that, although the present coaching staff is largely respon­
sible for the improved play of Skibos, the amount of foot­
ball talent available is the chief factor, and that there is 
no guarantee that future talent will continue to improve in 
caliber.
The problem in this respect is to find such players and have 
them enroll at the school of the Plaid. Steffan Fund scholarships 
are available to deserving gridders, although definitely not in 
sufficient quantity. Consequently, the crux of the problem lies 
in the establishment of a strong alumni organization to finan­
cially support the Steffan Fund, and the organization of a com­
plete scouting system to determine what high school gridders 
possess both the athletic and intellectual prowess required. Given 
this type of organization, and it definitely is not an impossibility, 
and the apparent absurdity of a strictly class B schedule dis-
gregation isom South Bend was 
rolling along on its way to another 
unbeaten season when they came 
up against the Skibos.
Apparently Coach Rockne felt 
that the Tartans would not present 
any formidable opposition because 
he spent the afternoon of the game 
in New York, scouting the Army- 
Navy classic. Army was to be the 
next opponent of the mighty Irish. 
Imagine the dismay that must 
have been in Rockne’s heart when
Tartans’ Appearance With TCU 
Spotlights Sugar Bowl Game
All-America Davey O’Brieii Proves Too Tricky; 
Carnegie Bows In Hard Fought Contest
The thousands of football fans who had an opportunity to wit­
ness the Sugar Bowl classic in 1939, when Texas Christian University 
defeated the Carnegie Tech Tartans, 15-7, witnessed one of the most 
thrilling contests ever held in the New Year’s Day classic.
TCU,led by little All-American Davey O’Brien, overcame a 7-6 
halftime deficit to tally 9 points' in the final half to cinch the vie-
*tory in the fifth annual Bowl game. 
Writers who covered the game 
were unanimous in the opinion 
that the only difference between 
the two teams was O’Brien.
CIT Play Best 
It was O’Brien’s passing and 
kicking that proved to be too 
much for the mighty Tartans to 
overcome. O’Brien passed the 
Horned Frogs to the one yard line 
to set up the first TCU touchdown, 
and then later on in the game he 
booted a perfect 20-yd. field goal 
to assure the victory.
In spite of the playing of 
O’Brien, it is an undisputed fact 
that the most outstanding play of 
the game was when CIT’s great 
halfback, George Muha, took a 
punt on his own 4-yard line and 
ran the ball back 53 yards to the 
TCU 43-yard line before he was 
finally stopped by TCU’s great 
center, Ki Aldrich.
Mighty Muha
It was Muha who accounted for 
the Tartan’s only score when he 
made a sensational catch of 
Moroz’s 48-yard pass on the 1- 
yard line to make the TD. The 
extra point was the result of a 
perfect point - after-touchdown 
kick by this same great back, 
George Muha.
This was the only post-season 
Bowl Classic in which the Tartans 
have ever participated, and it cer­
tainly will long be remembered by 
the 57,000 persons who witnessed 
the game. The famous Kiltie Band 
made the spectacle even more 
glorious as they thrilled the 
throngs of onlookers with their 
colorful uniforms and their snap­
py tempo and precision maneuvers 
during the halftime intermission.
SUGAR BOWL COACHES
Left to right: Joseph Skladany, Frank Kutz, Dr. Eddie Baker, 
and William Kern.
Al Irwin
Carnegie Grid Great
he learned of his team’s defeat at j 
the hands of the smaller Kiltie 
squad by a 19-0 score!
It was in 1923 that the Tartans 
first were able to defeat their; 
neighbors from down the hill, the j 
University of Pittsburgh, on the 
gridiron. This victory was partic- | 
ularly welcomed because Pitt was ! 
at that time one of the gridiron 
powerhouses.
In 1929 the Taitans traveled 
.
west where they lost a tough 
game to the University of South­
ern California by a 34-7 count. 
This was the first big western trip 
made by a team of the Plaid.
In 1928, the year in which the 
Tartans defeated mighty Notre 
Dame by a 27-7 count, the Tar­
tans were heading for an unde­
feated season when they went 
east to play the gridders of the 
New York University. Unfortun­
ately the Violet put an end to any 
hopes of fame for that Tartan 
team, as they soundly trounced the 
Skibos for their only loss of the 
season.
The opinion had been voiced by 
several circles that, if they had 
been able to beat NYU, the Skibos 
would probably have been the 
choice for the annual Rose Bowl 
classic the following New Year’s 
Day.
The fact still remains that this 
team is probably the greatest ag­
gregation ever assembled on the 
gridiron by the Plaid in their foot­
ball history.
In 1938, after defeating such 
formidable foes as Georgetown, 
and the University of North Caro­
lina, the men of Carnegie climaxed 
a great season by appearing in 
the Sugar Bowl classic.
Two of the stars of this game 
will long be remembered by CIT 
grid fans for their superb per­
formances throughout the entire 
season. The first one, George 
Muha, was one of the football 
“greats” of CIT. The other one, 
Merlyn Condit, went on to gain 
fame as a professional football 
player during several successful 
seasons with the Brooklyn football 
Dodgers.
Big Push!
Biggest Tartan football of­
fensive took place in 1915, 
when Waynesburg College 
was downed bjr the score of 
88 to 0.
= ¦*
Tartan Game 
Against W&J 
Best In 1920
Carnegie Tech’s 1920 eleven 
battled its way to everlasting fame 
and glory when they rose up out 
of the mud and handed the pow­
erful Washington-Jefferson foot­
ball aggregation a 6-0 defeat.
The significance of this defeat 
will be seen when it is stated that 
at this- time the Washington-Jef­
ferson eleven was considered to 
be one of the top-flight first class 
teams in the country.
This particiular victory marked 
the beginning of a new era in 
Plaid athletics. It was the first 
time that a Tartan team had ever 
beaten a team of recognized first 
rank on the gridiron.
This glorious event happened 
shortly after the beginning of the 
last quarter of the game and the 
wild cheering and pandamonium 
that broke out for at least 10 min­
utes had never been witnessed be­
fore, and it probably has not been 
equalled to this day.
One of the stars of this famous 
CIT aggregation was a center by 
the name of Al Irwin. Many of 
the local followers will immedi­
ately recognize Al as being o/ie 
of the “braintrusts” of the present 
Skibo squad.
It was Al Irwin who captained 
the 1921 edition of the Skibos, and 
his play at center gained him 
much of the fame that he has 
earned during his career. It was 
this diminutive little center who 
sparked the Tartans to one of their 
most famous victories in the IS20I coounn

---------------------------------------------------

THURSDAY, OCTOBER 26, 1950TAIWANPage 11
Trainer Burt Munhallj 
Tells Of CIT Sports
Players’’ Personalities Well Known 
To Long Time Tartan Varsity Guide
By A- J. Moore
BuddyOverend 
Guides Varsity
Sports Program Led 
By Reknowned Figure
Remember Burt Munhall? If you do, enough said, but if not, 
let us say that he was a humorist, psychologist, common sense phil­
osopher, and one of the best athletic trainers of the past half-century. 
For 34 years his portentious frame graced every athletic field on
v.hich CIT teams compiled. <
I interviewed this fabulous per­
sonality for almost three hours, 
and we talked of “the good old 
days,’ of great Tartan teams, of 
great players, and of «great 
coaches. We barely scratched the 
surface, but at that a wealth of 
little known stories were uncov­
ered.
Good Ref
There was the Saturday in 1914 
that the Carnegie football team 
helped Lehigh dedicate its new 
stadium. It was Burt Munhall’s 
first year at CIT, and the first 
year as coach of Wally Steffans, 
a great football player in his own 
right under Alonzo Stagg at Chi­
cago. Our line massed around the 
center. Instead of passing the ball 
into the backfield he hid it be­
hind his leg. The left end swept 
around behind him, took the ball,
Carter Feld in South Bend, In­
diana, where they handed the 
“fighting Irish” their first home 
defeat in 23 years. The score was 
27-7 and the sports world was 
duly stunned.
W&J Jinx 
If there ever was a “jinx team” 
in the Carnegie schedule over the 
years it was W & J. In one game 
a mounted policeman unwittingly 
ran intereference as the Presidents 
scored the winning touchdown. 
The rest of the Carnegie team 
was blocked out by eager W & J 
fans who piled out onto the field 
to “get a better view of the game.” 
In another W&J game the 
stands collapsed, and Burt Mun­
hall, a number of Tartan mana­
gers, assistants, and players 
frantically extricated the specta­
tors from beneath the wreckage. 
The inhabitants of “little” Wash­
ington stood by stunned into help­
lessness. Many were injured that 
day, but fortunately there were no 
fatalities.
BERT MUNHALL
and befoi-e anybody knew what 
had happened the Tartans had 
scored their first touchdown.
Carnegie held a 20-14 lead go­
ing into the last quarter of that 
game. Then a Tartan pass, seem­
ingly incomplete was ruled c* fum­
ble. Lehigh took the ball, scored 
a touchdown, and won 21-20. The 
next day it was revealed that the 
referee who had made that out­
rageous decision was an assistant 
to the Lehigh coach.
All Out Play
Steffans, as I said, played ball 
for the University of Chicago. In 
1914 he came to Carnegie where 
for almost 20 years he coached 
many of the great Plaid teams. He 
was known throughout the sports 
world as a coach who could make 
a team play above its head and 
keep them there for the whole sea­
son.
In 1914 and 1915 “Pop” Warner 
was coaching at Pitt. Warner, 
Steffans, and Munhall used to get 
together frequently throughout 
the season at Trabert’s Morlene 
Hotel and work out plays on the 
table cloths. One day Steffans 
said, “If I had a bunch of fast 
linemen, I’d pull out the guards 
and let them run interference.” 
This became the basis of the now 
legendary Warner System.
Irish Humbled
In the late 1920’s Steffans led 
some of Carnegie’s greatest teams. 
At that time Notre Dame was* a 
regular opponent on our schedule. 
Perhaps you’ve heard of the Sat­
urday afternoon in 1926 when 
Knute Rockne scouted the Army- 
Navy game while his team was 
handed the upset of the year by 
an underrated Tartan team. Said 
Chilly Doyle, now of the Pitts­
burgh Sun-Telegraph, “Steffans’ 
Tartan could have licked both 
Army und Navy in the same ring.’’
Green Hat
W&J had many great teams in 
those days. Some of the best were 
coached by “Greasy” Neale (now 
in the same capacity with the 
Philadelphia Eagles). “Greasy” 
used to wear a bright green hat 
so that his players could single 
him out and catch the signals he 
flashed from the bench.
It was in one of those games 
that a Carnegie back used a “spin­
ner” play for the first time in the 
history of the sport. Dyke Beede, j 
Tartan full-back, cracked off- ! 
tackle and was met by a “stone 
wall” of Prexie linemen. He spun 
twice and travelled 85 yards be- ! 
fore he was pulled down. This 
play is now standard in the foot­
ball repteroire.
Broken Neck
There were many great Pitt- 
Tech football games. One, how­
ever, will always stand out in the 
mind of Munhall and a Tartan 
back by the name of Frank Att- 
dorfer. It was in 1916 and a young 
man by the name of Jock Suth >r- | 
land was playing tackle for the 
Panthers.
Attdorfer threw a block at a 
Pitt ball carrier. He did not get up 
after the' play. Munhall rushed 
onto the field and saw that the lad 
had suffered a broken neck. Hold­
ing the broken vertebrae in place 
he carried Attdorfer from the 
field.
Not Fatal
In the dressing room Attdorfer 
suffered sporadic fits of writhing 
insanity as the vertebrae touched 
his spinal cord. Each time, Mun­
hall applied traction to the boy’s 
neck to alleviate the brain shock. 
Attdorfer recovered after many 
weeks in a cast, marking one of 
the few times that a broken neck 
has not been fatal.
The interview continued and 
Burt Munhall talked about Lloyd 
Yoder and Howie Harpster, Car­
negie Tech’s two All-American se­
lections. He told of George Muha 
and Merlyn Condit the two stand­
out players _ of the 1938 Sugar 
Bowl team, and of the famous 
“Fourth Down Fantasy” which 
gave Notre Dame a 7-0 victory to 
deprive the Tartans of an un­
beaten season in 1938.
It is not all a story of victories. 
Dame Fortune did not always 
smile benevolently on the Car­
negie Tech sports scene as you 
may know. Undoubtedly that 
phase of our 50 year sports pic­
ture which was the most consist­
ently great was the contribution j 
mi.de by Burt Munrall in the 34
Clarence (Buddy) Overend, di­
rector of intercollegiate athletics 
since 1937, has been a sports en­
thusiast all his life and has been 
a vital part of the Carnegie Tech 
sports scene since the founding of 
the school in 1905.
One of his prime achievements 
is the fact that he was the captain 
of the first athletic team when he 
led the hockey team in 1905.
Return to Athletics
After an active undex-graduate 
career, he turned to the business 
world for 14 years as a partner in 
a firebrick brokerage concern. As 
the years rolled by he began to 
devote less and less time to hib 
business and more and more time 
to sports.
When he was asked to return to 
his Alma Mater as graduate man­
ager of athletics in 1923, he dis­
solved his business interests and 
joined the CIT staff.
In the years to come he was to 
serve Tartan athletics with a great 
deal of distinction, through the 
long rivalries that have existed 
with such schools as New York 
University, Notre Dame, Temple, 
Holy Cross, Pitt, and Duquesne.
Friend of Rockne
Outstanding in his personal ath ­
letic associations was his great 
friendship with the late Knute 
Rockne. Rockne’s death was a 
deep personal loss to Buddy, and 
Rockne still remains as one of 
America’s foremost sports figures 
to Buddy.
There are few athletic organi­
zations in the East of which he 
has not at one time or other been 
a member, and there have been 
few athletes at Carnegie that have 
not gained through their contact 
with him.
At the present time Buddy is 
coach of the CIT golf team.
MUHA CIRCLES LEFT END
George Muha, left halfback of the 1938 Sugar Bowl team, sweeps 
left end for a long gain.
Carnegie Basketeers 
Have Ups And Downs
Best Record 15 And 8 In 1936;
1950 Quintet Best Since 1938
By Cal Smith
Basketball has been a major campus sport ever since Carnegie 
Tech was founded 50 years ago. Many of the Tartan fives were far 
from spectacular, but nevertheless the spirit has always been there. 
Let’s go back about 25 years, approximately when the new gym­
nasium was built, and look at ?------—-----
some of Carnegie’s hardwood penn State, W. Virginia, Western 
teams. Reserve, and W&J. The team
The 1925 team was coached by compiled an 11-8 record that year. 
Benjamin J. Lubic and captained The Tartans continued their 
by Milo Matter. The team had a winning ways in 1932 although 
mediocre season that year, win- hampered by illness and injuries, 
ning eight and losing eight. How- The plaid beat Princeton, inter- 
ever they did manage to beat sev- collegiate collge champions, 30-15, 
eral strong rivals such as Notre and piled up a 17 and 9 record. 
Dame and their inter-city foes, Max Hannum began a 14 year
Pitt.
Won Out East
Dave Byerly took over the 
ing some old time rivals such as
reign as head coach in 1933. The 
team got off to a roaring start un­
der their new tutor, winning the 
first three games, but then they 
collapsed, losing five straight, and 
ended the season with an eight 
and 11 record. Bob Smith, co­
captain of the team that year, 
received All-American mention 
for his outstanding play.
STEFFAN RETURNS TO CIT
In the center is Judge Wally Steffan as he looked when he re­
turned to the Tartan coaching staff in September of 1936.
Basketball Five 
Took League Title 
In 1937 Season
The Tartan basketball squad 
was declared the champion of the 
Eastern Intercollegiate Basketball 
Conference in 1937, after they beat 
Pitt in a playoff, 37-32. Their rec­
ord for the season was 15 wins 
and 8 losses.
They shared this same honor 
with Georgetown in 1939; the reg­
ular season showed a 12 and 7 
record.
The league was in existence 
from 1932 until 1939 and was made 
up of Carnegie Tech, University 
of Pittsburgh, University of 
Georgetown, Temple, Penn Sïàte, 
and West Virginia. During its ex­
istence, the Plaid won 68 games 
while droping 67, a formidable 
record.
Carnegie's basketball " fortunes 
suddenly sprang to life in the thir­
ties when students began pressing 
the administration for a good court 
squad to carry on where the foot­
ball team left off in the fall. It 
was only a matter of a couple of 
years before the pleas from both 
students and alumni resulted in 
giving Carnegie one of the top
coaching reins in 1926 with a 
team captained by Lloyd Amans. j 
Although the team only won five 
while losing 10, the season was 
highlighted by a successful east­
ern trip which found CIT defeat­
ing Rensselear 23-18, and City 
College of New York 24-23 on suc­
cessive nights. The defeat marked 
CCNY’s first loss on its home 
court in three years.
The 1928 season was a complete 
failure as far as games won when 
the Tartan five, captained by 
Harvey White, dropped 13 straight 
games. Under the same captain, 
the 1929 team won four while 
losing 12. Two of the Skibo victor­
ies came on another successful 
Eastern trip where they defeated j 
Buffalo University 33-23 and Ni­
agara University 44-26.
Hogan New Coach
Ralph J. Hogan took over as 
head coah in 1930 and chose 
George Nease as team captain. In 
a complete reversal of previous 
eastern trips, the Tartan dropped 
consecutive contests to such teams 
as Army, CCNY and NYU. In 
1931 under Hogan the team ex­
perienced the most successful sea­
son to that date by winning more
Tough Luck
The year 1934 was one of sur­
prises, upsets, and ba’d breaks for 
the Carnegie five. Lou Jagnow, 
captain and offensive star, was 
declared ineligible soon after the 
outset of the season, and the team 
ended the season with a 5-11 rec­
ord.
The plaid acquitted themselves 
nobly in 1935 against some of the 
strongest competition in this sec­
tion of the country, although they 
did not pile up a notable number 
victories. Captain Ted Riggs was 
outstanding as one of the most 
brilliant players in the district.
In 1936 Carnegie Tech became 
Eastern Intercollegiate champs 
with 15 victories and eight defeats. 
Sy Felser was high scorer that 
year with more than 100 points in 
the 23 games.
Beat Dukes
During the 1937 season several 
firsts were added to the Tartan 
record. Duquesne was beaten 
twice in the same year. The Skibos 
took second place in the city 
league for the first time since its 
inauguration, and became the first 
team to beat Westminster on fts 
home court in four seasons.
The Plaid had its ups and 
downs in 1938 scoring 820 in 
racking up 12 victories against 
nine defeats. Mel Cratslev, then 
playing for his Alma Mater, gave 
the outstanding performance when 
he sank 34 points against West 
Virginia, establishing a new city 
and conference record.
The 1939 team, captained by 
Bob Stark, won seven of the first 
eight games but dropped six of 
the last 11 games. They did, how­
ever, manage to win enough league 
games to end up in a tie with 
Georgetown for the Eastern Con­
ference championship. Instead of 
arranging a playoff game between 
the two teams, the champion was 
to be decided by the toss of a coin. 
Carnegie won the toss and became 
the last Eastern champion as the

---------------------------------------------------

THURSDAY, OCTOBER 26, 1950*
BOB ROBB STARKi *ì v I 
TARTAN COURT
VTA a
LLOYD YODER 
n a *7 
AU-AMERICAN
Theprie
J AWOEftSOW lì4 UTTfR5
O0DGE W. STfFfAN
n is - /?
w. I*f <f i. 86@
PASS,RUN^|PUNT AND 
D R o P K»C K.CÌU.L-me RICA N 
QUARTERBftCk \N 1<U8 BiftìTàVod rooLri fm199
T If Ac k
CV. ME PF0FT'2W *“0©T BAM.. ».6 OONAHOS 'il FOOT 8 KLU. H ft
AL.TRWIN *ZT. FOOTBALL CH SPRINGIE R FOOTBALL.T.
Tartan Picks 
All-Star Team
Athletic Greats Selected
Cage Record
la the 1950 basketball sea­
son when the Plaid racked up 
79 points against Bethany, 
there were two standing 
school records shattered. The
Eastern Champs
In 1938 the Carnegie Tech 
gridders were awarded the 
Lambert Trophy, emblematic 
of the Eastern football cham­
pions. This is the only time in
J.ROBEfcTSON.
Tec« * <s*r4Ttff ATacnr
H DYKEMW i 
n zsTRACK-MILE
FOUR LETTER HANthe history of the athletic pro­
gram here at CIT that such 
national recognition has been 
received.
‘Four Horsemen’ Were Saddled 
By Stubborn 1926 Tartans
Carnegie Gridders Gain World Recognition 
As A Result Of Surprising Conquest Of ND
Although it has long since been recorded in the pages of history, 
the 1926 Carnegie Tech-Notre Dame is still a very evident reminder 
Of the football supremacy that CIT formerly enjoyed.
The story of how the rugged wearers of the Plaid defeated Coach
“Knute” Rockne’s eleven withO---------------------------——*--------------------
their second edition of the fa- ~r% "ti j j 
mous “Four Horsemen” has been 
on the lips of Carnegie fans for a
long time. ! [Continued from page 11]
Irish Scoreless conference was disbanded that
Taking the upper hand at the year.
very outset of the fray, Carnegie 
not only went on to roll up 19 
points against the mighty Irish, 
but they managed to hold the 
Notre Dame squad scoreless.
The Notre Dame system of using 
shock troops proved to be no 
“shock” at all to the Plaid as they 
scored all of their points against 
the first team of the Irish.
Famous Tartans 
It is significant to note that this 
defeat is the only one suffered by 
th? men of South Bend during that 
entire campaign. Word of this de­
feat at the hands of the Tartans 
rapidly spread all over the world 
and the Carnegie Tech gridders 
became the so-called “wonder 
team” of the year, v
Playing on that team »vere at 
leest two men who have remained 
on the minds of sports followers 
of CIT. The first one is Howard 
Harpster, the quarterback of that 
year, who was the second man in 
the history of ClT football to be 
picked for an All-America team.
The second man is William 
‘•Wild Bill” Donahoe. who was un­
doubtedly one of the outstanding 
bs'*ks of his day. Don-’hoo was an 
extremely fleet-footed back, and 
in the words of the famous Tar- 
Walter Steffen, “he was
“Winless Wonders
A thrilling 46-44 victory over 
Pitt highlighted an otherwise 
mediocre 1940 season. The team 
. was paced that year by lanky, 
bespectacled center Bob Sturgeon. 
1941 was undobtedly one of the 
w’orts years in CIT history. The 
Plaid lost all 18 games that year 
and picked up such nicknames as 
“Winless Wonders” and the “Fu­
tility Five.”
The 1948 team scored 848 points 
against 1034 for the opposition 
while compiling a 5-12 record. 
Captain Mike Theodore took the 
city scoring crown with 100 field 
goals and 69 free throws for a to­
tal of 269 points.
Winning Season 
In 1949 coach Donohoe’s cagjers 
established the longest winning 
streak in a decade with four 
straight victories. They scored 75 
points against Case which beat 
the all-time scoring record. Mike 
Theodore came within three points 
of the individual scoring mark 
when he tallied 33 points against 
Grove City to lead his team to a 
71-53 triumph.
New coach Mel Cratsley, in 
1950, produced the first winning 
team since 1938. The Plaid scored 
79 points in the first game to es- 
two records, points per 
pet game.
. With Sportswriters’ Aid
With the aid of some of the 
Pittsburgh sports writers who have 
been covering Carnegie athletic 
teams for the past twenty or thirty 
years, the Tartan has selected an 
all-time Carnegie Tech football 
and basketball team.
It has been a difficult task to 
narrow down a single football 
eleven with such great backfield 
stars as Harpster, Robertson, Mu­
ha, Condit, Karcis, Donohoe, Eyth, 
and others overshadowing other 
fine Tartan backs as Kesner, 
Brumbaugh, Anderson, S a y 1 e s, 
Flanagan, and Simcic.
Harpster the Greatest 
Easiest part of the selection was 
in acclaiming Howie Harpster, All- 
Amercian quarterback in 1928, as 
the greatest of them all. Harpster 
was the spearhead of the ’26 and 
’28 teams which defeated Notre 
Dame and Pitt each year, as well 
as other great football elevens 
throughout the country. Lloyd 
Yoder, Carnegie’s other All-Amer­
ican contribution, was probably 
the standout lineman of them all.
Commenting on some of his se­
lections, 6het Smith, sports editor 
of the Pittsburgh Press, said that 
Merle Condit and George Muha, 
stars of the 1938 Sugar Bowl team, 
were the best halfback combina­
tion he has ever seen in operation, 
along with the Stebbins-Goldberg 
combination of Pitt’s famous 
“dream backfield.”
Notre Dame Picks Robertson 
“Al Irwm was a great little cen­
ter,” added Smith. “He was a ter­
rific offensive player, and could 
hold his own against any player.” 
Beside picking Cy Comfort as a 
great tackle, Smith added that he 
holds the Carnegie record for 
! points after touchdown.
Condit and Muha were hard 
j pressed, however, to beat out 
I Jimmy Robertson and Bill Dona- 
! hoe, two halfbacks who were re- 
: sponsible for many Skibo victories 
J during the twenties. Of Robertson, 
one writer had this to say, “He was 
i 150 pounds of dynamite and 
j brain.” The 1923 Notre Dame team 
| called Robertson “the best runner 
j they faced that fall.”
The Great Thirties
he
first record to be broken was 
for the total number of points 
per game and the other was 
for the number of field goals 
per game.
CROSS-COUNTRY________________ * gCRCtlSOH
South Bend Tribune Describes 
Battle Between CIT And Irish
1927 Defeat First At Home In 22 Years; 
Harpster Outstanding Player For Skibos
The following article has been recopied exactly as it appeared in 
the Saturday evening edition of the South Bend Tribune in South 
Bend, Indiana, on November 17, 1927. It is reprinted in its original 
form to show the feeling of the press which would ordinarily have
___________________________________*been extremely pro-Notre Dame.
the thirties supplied all the mate- | “A crushing, battering team of 
rial for the all-time Carnegie, towering Tartans from the Car- 
court squad. Jack Henry of the negie Institute of Technology in 
Pittsburgh Sun-Telegraph calls it j Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania, cast 
a toss-up between Lou Jagnow of football’s oldest defeatless home 
the ’32 team and Bobby (Rube) field record into the discard here 
Stark of the ’39 team when it this afternoon when it cruised over 
comes to selecting the “best of an embattled but hopelessly out- 
them all.” I weighed Notre Dame team' to add
“Jagnow was potentialy the another victory to its unbroken
most talented basketball player to 
ever hit the Pittsburgh district,” 
said Henry, “However, he played 
his last season with two badly- 
injured knes. Rube Stark would 
have been a whirlwind on the bas­
ketball court today and could have 
broken all kinds of scoring rec­
ords.”
Cratsley One of Best
Henry picked the present Tar­
tan coach, Mel Cratsley, for the 
mythical Tartan team. “Mel was 
perfect for the old type of game 
with the solid defense,” Henry 
added. “He was big and rough.”
Football
First Team Pos. Second TeamCy Meffort ’26 LE Ted Rosenweig ’28 Lloyd Yoder ’26 LT Hugh Springle ’22 Ber’d Burzio ’33 LG Newton Cowan ’27 Al Irwin ’22 C Bill Manby ’26Bill Sample ’32 RG Bill Rieth ’39Cy Comfort ’22 RT J. Highberger P. Flanagan ’30 RE Karl StriegoJ j ’39 H. Harpster ’28 QB Jimmy Kesner ’16 George Muha ’38 LH Jim Robertson ’23 Geo. Condit ’38 RH Bill Donohoe ’26 John Karcis ’30 FB Dike Beede ’27
Basketball
First Team Po s. Second Team
Lou Jagnow ’32 F Mel Cratsley ’39 F •job Stark ’38 CBob Fergus ’ ¡2 G
string lor the season.
Tartans Superior ,¦
It was the first time since 1905 J 
that the Irish had lost on the home 
sod, and it was only after the 
sternest sort of fight that the Plaid 
colors were sent up the victory 
pole and the Rockmen accepted 
defeat.
In the first half Carnegie Tech 
was vastly superior to Notre Dame 
in every department with the pos­
sible exception of punting. Not 
only did the Tech team score three 
touchdowns in rapid succession, J 
but they registered eight first 
downs to three for f'lotre Dame.
Big Line 
The invading line, towering as 
it did over the Notre Dame line, 
made the Notre Dame line look 
like a pygmy in comparison. The 
famous eijid around play and the 
deceptive criss cross formation 
had the fighting* Irish puzzled 
throughout the entire first half.’* 
The captain of this great team J 
, ^ was Howard Harpster, who wasBob Smith 33 i 3Ti dddMike Theodore ’48 unanimously chosen as the All-
Stretch James ’38 America quarterback for the 1927 Cy Felser ’:!6 [
.1 >v k '«¦ V't. J .H/wWwC«. .

---------------------------------------------------

THURSDAY, OCTOBER 26, 1950TA4»ANPage 13
Opponents
WILSON SNAGS HOLTZ AERIAL
Fritz Wilson, Carnegie left end, is shown above snagging a pass 
from quarterback Quent Holtz despite the defensive efforts of Alleghe­
ny halfback Jerry Watson. The action took place in the second 
quarter of Saturday’s game with the Gators.
Four plays later, Wilson caught another Holtz aerial and then 
Jateralled to halfback Nick Simcmic (also in the above picture), who 
sped 30 yards for the first Tartan score.
HARVEY'S MEN'S SHOP
HEADQUARTERS FOR MANHATTAN SHIRTS IN SQUIRREL HILL,
1707 MURRAY AYE.
Open Tuesday, Thursday, Saturday Evenings
PHONE JA. 1-3500
Ihi twoslwus most ukéi{ to s uae&i; 
(ni campus
Bvrt—oxford button-down collar with the soft roll 
(the college man's staple diet). A "Manhattan,” of course.
Range
$3.95
Range—fine white broadcloth with the wide-spread 
collar. Made by "Manhattan,’" which means perfect fit.
L
The Manhattan Shirt Company, makers of "Manhattan shirts, ties, 
undertvear, pajamas, sporlskirts, beachwear and handkerchief*.
Scores of games played byfu-
ture Carnegie opponents (in capi-
tal letters) are given below.
CASE251 W & J7
LEHIGH '21] CASE20
CASE20! Ohio Wesleyan13
John Carroll51] CASE14
Dennison20) W&J0
Bucknell34 j W & J0
Geneva7| W & J0
LEHIGH271 Bucknell6
LEHIGH49} Gettysburg6
LEHIGH16] Dartmouth14
Slippery Rock19j WESTMINSTER6
Thiel20: WESTMINSTER7
WESTMINSTER7j Bethany7
WESTMINSTER19; Grove City0
Gridders Win Fourth, 
Edge Gators, 14-13
Dissen Kicks Game-Winning Points;
Simcic Scores Twice On Passes
Gil Dissen’s educated right foot proved to be the difference last 
Saturday as' the Tartan gridders extended their winning streak to 
four games by edging Allegheny College, 14-13. Playing before 
5,000 Homecoming fans at College Field in Meadville, Pa., the Plaid
was forced to come from behind*--------------------------------------------------- 
twice in order to win. \ gr*lase <*ame 
Ivifforiiialioit
Undefeated Tartans 
Battle Case Tech
Powerful Rough Riders Threaten 
Win Streak In Homecoming Game
Boasting four straight victories and an undefeated record for 
the season, the Tartan gridmen return to Forbes field to meet a strong 
Case Institute team in the 1950 Homecoming game this Saturday.
The meeting will be the fifteenth in a series that began in 1907. 
----------------------------------------------——?Plaid teams have notched five vic­
tories while losing nine times to
1
A big, hard-charging Allegheny 
line gave coach Eddie Bilker’s 
proteges the roughest afternoon 
: they have experienced this Fall.
! Throughout much of the game the 
Gator linemen were more than a 
match for the Skibo forwards.
Led by halfbacks Jerry Watson 
and Ray Herbst, the Gator run­
ning attack consistently gained 
yardage on quick-opening plays. 
Left-handed passer Carl Herr­
mann was also effective with his 
passes over the center of the line.
Simcic, Shechter Star
Probably the most notable of 
the Carnegie gridders was captain 
Nick Simcic who, in scoring both 
his team’s touchdowns, performed 
more like the Simcic of last year 
than at any time this season.
Halfback Irv Shechter also 
played outstanding football, turn­
ing in several brilliant runs. Arne 
Oberg, besides being the only Tar­
tan back to gain consistently 
through the Gator line, played an 
excellent defensive game, along 
with Ted Leaman.
Up front it was guard Floyd 
Wiseman, tackle Joe Galanda, and 
ends Lou Fougere and Fritz Wil­
son who carried most of the at­
tack. Line-backer Jack Magnifico 
did a great job of throttling the 
Allegheny running game.
Gators Score First
It was the Gators who scored 
first, midway through the first 
period, following the interception 
of a Brourman aerial. Starting on 
their own 40-yard line, the Hill- 
toppers rolled to three straight 
first downs, the third on the Car­
negie six. On his fourth try, Wat­
son bucked over for the score, Bill 
Utberg missed the fatal extra 
point.
The teams played on even terms 
until early in the second period, 
when the Plaid marched 80 yards 
for a tally. Shechter went off the 
weak side for 35 yards and then, 
a few plays later, Holtz tossed a 
short pass to Wilson. Fritz 
promptly lateralled to Simcic who 
raced thirty yards down the side­
line to paydirt.
The second Gator score came on 
a pass interception. The winning 
Tartan counter came seconds later 
on a pass from Holtz to Simcic on 
a play covering 58 yards.
Opponent: Case Institute of
Technology.
Date: Saturday, October 28, 1950. 
Place: Forbes Field, Pittsburgh, 
Pa.
Time: 2:00 p. m. EST.
Lineups:
CITPo s.CASE
WilsonL EAnzells
StahleL TKerslake
WisemanL GBurkart
KrotecCOrzechowski
SftermeyerR GLamvermeyer
GalandaR TBednar
FougereR EHeaton
BrourmanQBCifelli
SimcicLHBZalimeni
ShechterRHBYarsa
ObergFBGanyard
the Cleveland aggregation.
Out for Revenge
The Skibo squad will be out to 
avenge the 38-0 trouncing they 
received at the hands of the Rough 
Riders last year, and to keep their 
present winning streak intact.
Coach Louis Saban’s Rough Rid­
ers lost a closely fought contest to 
a powerful Lehigh team to open 
their current season. In the 21-20 
defeat, Case ¿bowed that it could 
score not only along the ground, 
but via the air lanes as well.
While they did not display the 
same power that they showed 
against Lehigh, the Riders downed 
the Presidents of Washington and 
Jefferson by a 25-7 score, and the 
following week dropped Ohio 
Wesleyan to the tune of 20-13.
Dumped Last Week
John Carroll University dumped 
the Clevelanders 51-14 in a wild, 
free-scoring game last Saturday 
to even the Case record at two 
won, two lost for the season to 
date. The Carroll eleven held a 
26-7 lead at the end of the third 
period and proceeded to score al­
most at will during the final pe­
riod.
Although they lack the con­
sistency of a standout team, the 
Rough Riders of Case have shown 
flashes of power which entitle 
them to be rated as solid favorites 
come gametime Saturday. How­
ever, it won’t be a “cut and dried ’ 
affair for Case; the fighting Tar­
tans are gunning for an upset vic­
tory to celebrate their Homecom­
ing and 50th Anniversary.
Exciting Last Half Rally Gives 
Theta Xi Victory Over Emanon
Contenders For League Championships Win
As Intramural Football Season Nears Close
In the feature game of the week, a fighting Theta Xi squad 
came from behind to upset powerful Emanon by a 17-13 score. The 
game, which practically insured the Tartan league championship tor 
TX, was marked by “rock ’em, sock ’em” football throughout, both
teams going all out to win. •----------------------—-------------—-----
Citcom continued to fight for a ning ways with a 31-17 tri
play-off position in the Tartan 
league, winning over Beta Sigma 
Rho 27-7.
Beta Sigs Lose
The Beta Sigs put up a battle, 
keeping the score tied at intermis­
sion, after touchdowns by Fried 
for the Beta Sigs and Colucci for 
Citcom. However, Citcom had 
more in reserve and they came 
back in the second half with three 
TD’s to cinch the game.
In other Tartan league encoun­
ters TX won over the Architects 
47-£, and Beta Theta Pi defeated 
Beta Sigma Rho.
Only one game was played in 
the Kiltie league with the ATO 
league leaders smothering the 
Sigma Nu A team 45-2. Seven 
ATO’s broke into the touchdown 
column in the rout.
Undefeated Kappa Sigma in the 
Skibo league continued its win-
Complete Service For Your Car
• Body & Fender Repairs
• All Makes of Cars
• 24 Hour Storage
• Washing, Lubrication
MEDICAL ARTS GARAGE
115 Atwood St. Pittsburgh, Pa.
SC 1-6400
-..................
ipn
at the expense of the Dorm Dukes 
and a 34-3 victory over Newman 
Club.
Kappa Sigs Look Good
In the first game two first quar­
ter touchdowns were too much for 
the Dukes, although they threat­
ened throughout the remainder of 
the game. The Kappa Sigs looked 
championship calibre in beating 
the Dukes, who are one of the bet­
ter intramural aggregations.
In the other Skibo league con­
test, SAE and the Senior Chemists 
staged a wild offensive game. 
Sigma Alpha Epsilon emerged on 
top of a 56-32 score, as thej- com­
pleted and ran for ten touchdowns 
to only six for the Chemists.
In the only Scottie league game. 
Sigma Nu B outfought the Sad 
Sacks to win 22-6. Phi Kappa’s 
games with the Sad Sacks and the 
Greatest, scheduled for last week, 
were postponed to be played later.
LAST WEEK’S SCORES:TX—Architects, (47-6)TX—Emanon, (17-13)Citcom—BSR, (27-7)BTP—BSR, (24-12)SAE—Sr. Chem., (56-32)KS—Dorm D., (31-17)KS—Newman, (34-3)ATO—SN'A, (45-21 SN’B—Sad Sacks, <22-0) STANDINGS:Tartan League 
Team Won Lost
Theta XiEmanonCitcomBeta Theta PiArchitectsBeta Sigma Rho
[Continued on page 14]

---------------------------------------------------

Page 14TA«#A!VTHURSDAY, OCTOBER 26, 1950
Contest Rules
Only CIT students will be eligible to compete.Each contestant will predict not only the winner but also the final score of the game. Entries will be judged on the number of correct decisions; 
in case of tie . entries will be judged on correctness of scores.All entries must be sent to the Tartan through intra-school mail by midnight Friday ol the contest week to be eligible for consideration.Each student may submit only one entry. If more than one entry 1« 
submitted, by a student, he or she will be disqualified.Entries will be judged by the Tartan sports staff and the winner will be announced in the issue following the contest. Decision of the judges 
b* final.of each week’s contest the S. M. Frank 3c
I ^ ' |
Bethany Hands Tartan Soccer Squad ¡M Football 
Plaid Harriers Defeated By Oberlin
First Setbackteam dropped its second straight 
a powerful Oberlin squad by a 3-1
The Carnegie Tech soccer 
i game of the season Saturday to
The Carnegie Tech cross-coun- score on the Obeilin field,
trymen met their first defeat of the Af,er the first four minutes of play the Tartan team was work-. , , , ,, | ing under a two goal disadvantage.#------------------------------------------------------current season at the hands of the _ ® ° ^\ The first score, booted by Gosse-Bethanv Bisons Saturday. The; ijnji 0f oberlin, was followed in
[Continued from page 13]
League
Won
Plaid season mark now stands at 
two victories and one defeat.
Running over the 4.6 mile Beth­
any course, the best place the 
Plaid trackmen could take was 
fourth. John Cooper, Tartan cap­
tain, finished in 27:07 to nose out 
the fifth piace Bethany man, Ham­
ilton. close behind him.
Breaking the tape for the Bisons 
wa.-> Griffith, who burned up the 
track to set a new course record 
of 25:48. Half a minute behind 
were Beaddle and Rea, to cop sec­
ond and third for Bethany and 
practically cinch the meet.
The second and third men for 
Carnegie, who took sixth and sev­
enth places, were Carman and 
Douglas. Both finished in less than 
the respectable time of 28 minutes.
The nex;. meet for Coach Hal- 
ferty's squad will be with Case, 
whom they hope to make their 
third victim. The grind will be
quick succession by another tally 
by Dree bon.
In part, this crushing blow was 
due, no doubt, to the condition of 
the Plaid legmen. Fatigued by the 200 mile bus trip, the booters in 
addition had had no time for 
warm-up. Losing their way, the 
bus of booters had been delayed
held at Carnegie on the Schenley 
Park course at 11:30. Saturday, 
October 28.
Joseph Morgan 
Winner Of First 
Football Contest
Joseph A. Morgan, sophomore 
student in the Department of Met­
allurgical Engineering, is the num­
ber one football prognosticator on 
the Carnegie Campus. He was the 
only contestant to correctly select 
the winners of nine of the ten 
college games in last week's foot­
ball contest sponsored by the S. M. 
Frank & Co.
Joe’s only mistake was the Case- 
John Carroll game in which he 
picked Case to win. This game 
stumped all but three of the other 
experts entering the contest.
TARTAN FOOTBALL CONTEST ENTRY BLANK
and arrived late for the game.
Getting their second wind, the 
Plaid gave Oberlin a fight the re­
mainder of the game. In the sec­
ond half, Clark, on a pass by Lipp 
scored for Carnegie to make the 
score 2-1. However, Plaid hopes 
were dashed as Gosselink scored 
again for Oberlin as time ran out.
An outstanding performance by 
Jack Burrey drew the praises of 
the Oberlin coach, who said his 
ability certainly rated All-Ameri- 
can consideration.
Skibo
Team
Kappa Sigma 3
Tau Delta Phi 2
Sigma Alpha Epsilon 2
Dorm Dukes 2
Newman Club 1
Sr. Chem. E. 0
Kiltie League
Team Won
Alpha Tau Amega 3
Delta Tau Delta 2
Pi Kappa Alpha 1
Raiders 1
Sigma Nu A 0
Scottie League
Team Won
Sigma Nu B 3
Delta Upsilon 3
Phi Kappa 1
Sad Sacks 0
Greatest 0
Lost 0 
' 1 1 1
3
4
Lost0012
4
Lost11122
Rifle Club Holds
Classes To Teach 
Firing Techiiique
The Carnegie Tech Rifle and 
Pistol club is sponsoring a series 
of classes on shooting technique 
and range procedure. Classes are 
held each day so that all inter­
ested students, men and women, 
can attend.
Schedules for the class are post­
ed on the Skibo bulletin board 
and in Industries Hall. Copies of 
the schedule are available at the 
rifle range. The range is open to 
any CIT student, and guns are 
provided free of charge.
The next meeting of the club 
will be Tuesday, October 31, at 
the rifle range. Permanent officers 
will be elected, and the club in­
vites all interested students to at­
tend.
THEM All!
Games of October 28, 7950
Team Score Team Score
CARNEGIE TECH .......... CASE ..........
PITT .......... MIAMI (FLORIDA) ...........
W & J ........... THIEL ...........
LEHIGH .......... RUTGERS ...........
WESTMINSTER ........... GENEVA ...........
PENN STATE ........... TEMPLE ...........
DUQUESNE ........... LOUISVILLE ..........
NOTRE DAME ........... MICHIGAN STATE ..........
CORNELL ........... PRINCETON ...........
MICHIGAN ........... MINNESOTA ...........
Name....................................................... Dept......................Class
NO CIGARETTE HANGOVER
means MORE SMOKING PLEASURE!
Pittsburgh Address
Pictured belf A’ is the attractive Smoker’s Kit which will be 
awarded to the winner of the Tartan’s weekly football contest. The 
kit contains two pipes and two boxes of filters in a convenient zip­
per ed case.
Read the contest rules below and fill in and deposit the coupon 
in the intra-school mail box, addressed to the Tartan. All coupons 
must be entered by midnight Friday for the following day’s games. 
Any game played prior to midnight Friday will not be included 
in the judging.
Philip Morris challenges
any other leading brand 
to suggest this test
HUNDREDS OF THOUSANDS OF 
SMOKERS, who tried this test, 
report in signed statements that 
PHILIP MORRIS IS DEFINITELY 
LESS IRRITATING, DEFINITELY MILDER!
X. . . Light up a PHILIP MORRIS
Just take a puff—DON’T INHALE —and 
s-l-o-w-l-y let the smoke come through 
your'nose. Easy, isn’t it? And NOW...
Sm... Light up your present brand
Do exactly the same thing—DON’T 
INHALE. Notice that bite, that sting? 
Quite a difference from PHILIP MORRIS!
Other brands merely make claims—but Philip Morris invites you 
to compare, to judge, to decide for yourself.
Try this simple test. We believe that you, too, will agree . . . 
Philip Morris is, indeed, America’s FINEST Cigarette!

---------------------------------------------------

THURSDAY, OCTOBER 26, 1950TA4WAIVPage 15
CARNEGl./)
- * // n/i i jn
Page edited by Evening School Students of the Carnegie Insti­
tute of Technology.
Editor ......................................................................................Frank Mihelich
News Editor .............................................................................Martha Latza
Reporters .... Bill Bartoli, Robert Ellstrom, Robert Lloyd, Dick 
Gomrick, Alice Naumetz, George Schussler
*f
’50 Enrollment News
Editorials—
In Memoriam
Evening Student Council, and the Plaid staff feel deeply- 
grieved at the death of former President Dr. Robert E. 
Doherty. Your editor has had the pleasant experience of 
meeting with him at Student Conference dinners, and he 
always expressed deep concern in the affairs of Evening 
School, and in the welfare of Evening students. Dr. Doherty 
was nationally known as a scientist, and also as a renowned 
educator.
Campus Chest
Carnegie Tech’s Campus Chest which was organized a 
little over a year ago, is this school’s contributory organiza­
tion participating in Community welfare aid. When the pro­
gram begins November 1, volunteer Evening Students will 
ask your donations for this worthwhile drive. It is not just 
another Community Chest appeal; Boys’ Clubs, Community 
centers, and visiting nurses are only a few of the groups re- 
* ceiving aid from this program.
Day students have gone all-out by planning an outdoor 
entertainment to help the fund. Let’s see the Evening School 
students do their part in helping these worthwhile organiza­
tions.
Falls To 1,249
Allegheny Co. Leads 
With 1,082 Enrollees
Although this year’s Evening 
School enrollment of 1,249 has de­
creased slightly compared to 1,314 
of last year, striking changes have 
been revealed in the various de­
partments.
The number of students in the 
school of Engineering and Science 
have palled from 802 to 765. 
On the other hand Margaret Mor­
rison Carnegie College shows an 
increase attendance of 32 com­
pared to 17 of last year. Human­
istic and Social Studies’ has re­
mained at 211, and Fine Arts en­
rollment has dropped from 270 to 
241.
A breakdown of the Evening 
School enrollment into Pennsylva­
nia Counties show Allegheny 
County leading with a total of 
1,082. Westmoreland is next with 
97 enrollees. Then come Beaver 
County with 31, and Washington 
County with 22. There are three 
students in Lawrence County, two 
each from Cambria and Fayette. 
Remaining Counties; Armstrong, 
Crawford, Jefferson and Lebanon 
each have one student attending 
Evening School.
If you wish to commute to and 
from Carnegie Tech with any of 
the students from the above coun­
ties, information on this matter 
may be obtained from Mr. Mc- 
Kelway, Evening School Registrar, 
Room IH 1-32A.
And
Views
. . . we wonder if, with the lack 
of daily newspapers in the city, 
whether we haven’t corralled per­
haps one or two new readers for 
“News and Views.” Just as a mat­
ter of information to those who 
may be reading this column for 
the first time, “News and Views” 
is the Plaid’s gossip column that 
is devoted to the little items that 
we pick up on the evening school 
campus each week.
... no sooner have the echoes of 
alemen left and dozey-does died 
down from the square dance than 
Bob Ellstrom and Harry Lincoln 
have commenced the wheels to 
spinning for the Thanksgiving 
dance to be held Saturday, No­
vember 25. Bob informs us that 
Bill Le Roy (an old campus fav­
orite) and his orchestra will play 
for the dance. It’s going to be a 
pleasure to welcome this orchestra 
back to the evening school social 
scene.
. . . Will Schnarrenberger, Evening 
Student Council treasurer, spoke 
to the Boy Scouts in Wilkinsburg 
on the subject of Pennsylvania 
Caves. Will is a former President 
of the Pittsburgh Grotto of the Na­
tional Speological Society.
. . . Tickets are now available in 
Mr. McKelway’s office, 132-A, for 
the drama department’s new pre­
sentation, “Lilliom.”
Jadfye /f onRIDING EASEDRIVING EASE
"Best A// Odds
It rides more smoothly
You’ll glide smoothly, steadily, safely 
over most roads in Chevrolet—only 
low-priced car combining the Unitized 
Knee-Action Ride and airplane-type 
shock absorbers.
It operates more economically
You’ll enjoy extra-fine performance 
and save money, too; for Chevrolet is 
the only low-priced car with a Valve- 
in-Head engine-trend setter for the 
industry.
It drives more easily
You’ll enjoy finest no-shift driving at 
lowest cost with Chevrolet’s famous 
Powerglide Automatic Transmission* 
... or finest standard driving at lowest 
cost with Chevrolet’s Silent Synchro- 
Mesh Transmission.
It lasts longer, too
Chevrolet is built to outlast other cars. 
That’s one reason why there are over 
a million more Chevrolets on the road 
than any other make—and why Chev­
rolet is America’s most popular car, 
year after year. Come in—see it now!
*Combination of Powerglide Automatic Transmission 
105-h.p. Engine optional on De Luxe models at extra
AMERICA’S BEST SELLER!
It’s better looking—all around
You’ll know it’s more beautiful from 
every angle, inside and out; for Chev­
rolet is the only low-priced car with 
Body by Fisher—the standard of styl­
ing.
It offers more for less—throughout
Think! Center-Point Steering; Curved 
Windshield with Panoramic Visibility; 
Fisher Unisteel Construction; hydraulic 
brakes with Dubl-Life rivetless linings. 
You get all these and many other fea­
tures in Chevrolet at lowest cost.
and
cost.
AMERICA’S BEST BUY!
George Schussler
Heads Student Council * * *
Schussler New 
SC President
Added Responsibilities 
Not New To George
Evening Student Council is for­
tunate in having George Schussler 
as its new president. George gives 
unselfishly of his time, and seldom 
refuses to accept added responsi- 
biliites when Council and his fel­
low evening students need his aid.
George has covered quite a few 
miles commuting from his home in 
Sewickley to Oakland since he 
first enrolled at Carnegie Tech in 
1939. A three year hitch in the 
Navy during the war as an elec­
tronic technician served to extend 
his field of travel westward fo the 
Pacific ocean areas. After this de­
tour, George was once again on 
the road to' Tech.
Since his return to Tech after 
the war, George has been actively 
interested in Evening School ex­
tra-curricular activities. Selling 
tickets to dances, decorating for 
dances, and writing articles for the 
Plaid soon led to the job of Co- 
Editor of the Plaid. This year, in 
recognition of his willingness to 
work and assume responsibility, 
his fellow workers on the Evening 
Student Council have elected him 
President.
George is employed by the 
Green Engineering Company in 
Sewickley, where he is engaged in 
structural' engineering work. He 
has participated in such projects 
as a sheet and tin plate plant for 
Columbia Steel in California: the 
new seamless tube plant for Na­
tional Tube in Lorain, Ohio; su­
perstructure and approaches to the 
Lincoln Tunnel in New York; and 
is presently working on a new 
power plant for Duquesne Light 
Company in the Pittsburgh dis­
trict.
Among his hobbies he lists coin 
collecting, radio, and photography. 
His daughter, Nancy, age six 
months, should certainly appreci­
ate his interest in photography 
when she gets older because by 
her fathers’ admission she is un­
doubtedly the most photographed 
girl in Pittsburgh.
Phi Gamma Phi 
Elects Officers 
Sunday, Oct. 15
Election of Officers was held at 
the monthly meeting of Phi Gam­
ma Pi on Sunday, October 15, at 
Carnegie Union. Betty Jane 
George was elected president com­
mencing October, 1950; Ellen Gon- 
ter, vice-president; Mary Alice 
Peterson, treasurer; and Ro>e Ma­
rie Allias, secretary.
A committee to review the con­
stitution in the manner suitable 
for electing officers was appointed 
with Betty Jane George ser/ins as
chai
rynKrat
SEE YOUR LOCAL CHEVROLET DEALER
Conveniently listed under "Automobiles” in your local classified telephone directory
get girls! The pur] 
is to foster frie 
he women evenin 
Carnegie Tech.

---------------------------------------------------

Page 16TA*»ANTUESDAY, OCTOBER 24, 195
Newman Club To Hold 
Business-Social Nov. 3
The Newman club will hold a 
business-social on Friday, Novem­
ber 3, from 8 to 12 p.m. At this 
time a corresponding' secretary 
will be elected. The evening will 
conclude with refreshments and 
entertainment.
Father Gordon Knight of Du- 
quesne University will give the 
third in a series of lectures on 
Monday, November 6, from 7 to 
9 p.m. in the Carnegie Union.
Y Holds Freshmen Smoker 
At Carnegie Union
On Thursday, November 9, at 8 
p. m., the YMCA freshman coun- 
cil will hold a smoker for all 
freshman men at the Carnegie 
Union, There will be a speaker 
and refreshments will be serv
Junior Architect Gives ~ 
Talk on Europe Trip
Architectural students were re­
cently entertained by Miss Eliz­
abeth Bell, junior architect, who 
gave an illustrated talk on her 
summer European trip.
With a group of students, she 
toured England, Holland, Ger­
many, France, Switzerland, and 
Italy. Miss Bell’s collection of 
colored slides included famous 
historical landmarks, as well as 
many unpublicized, interesting 
places and scenes.
Miss Bell was most impressed 
by the courtesy of the English 
people, the reconstruction work 
in the bombed areas, and the en­
gineering feats of the Dutch
"C" Book To Be Published 
l)i November By APO
APO, working under the Pub­
lic Relations Office, is again pub­
lishing the student directory 
which will contain an activities 
supplement.
According to Bill Faust, chair­
man of the “C” Book committee, 
the book will be published the 
first week in November at last 
year’s price, 40c. Other members 
of the committee are Bob Levy, 
Ed Muttait and George Yanda.
Student Council
[Continued from page 3]
available to all students next year. 
The new publication, to be put 
out by PiDE, will include an ad­
ditional 10 pages over the present 
edition and will cover information 
pertinent to all students. Follow­
ing next year, frosh and transfer 
students will again be the only; 
ones to receive them.
Need Pep 
Seeking to increase student par­
ticipation and enthusiasm at pep 
rallies, a committee is preparing 
plans, to spark interest in pre- 
I game cheering.
Campus Libraries Feature 
Displays For Homecoming
The Science library, 54EH, will 
exhibit a 4’x6’ model of the cy­
clotron during the Homecomnig 
weekend.
All libraries on campus will fea­
ture displays concerning the theme 
of the weekend.
Meeting of Camera Club 
Open to Interested People
The Camera Club will hold its 
meeting Wednesday, October 25, 
7:15 p. m., in the meeting room 
of Carnegie Inn, All students and 
faculty members are welcome.
The Plaid
The plaid used most fre­
quently at CIT is not that of 
Carnegie but is the Cameron 
of Erracht tartan, which is 
more easily obtained in the 
American market.
Because of his humble 
birth, Andrew Carnegie did 
not inherit the privilege of us­
ing: any registered plaid and 
consequently had one design­
ed. Whenever possible, it is 
used on campus, but it is often 
difficult to secure.
Recital of French Music 
Scheduled By Phi Mu Alpha
Phi Mu Alpha, men’s music hon­
orary, is sponsoring a recital on 
October 31 at 3:15 in the exhibi­
tion room of the Fine Arts Build­
ing. No tickets are required.
The program consists of music 
written by French composers. So­
loists will be Florine Robbins, 
Sonia Faigen, Mary Ann Kostel- 
nock, J. Frederick Gentry, and 
Mrs. Dorothy Sawyer. Ensemble 
work will be done by Elnita Mac-
Campus Interviews on Cigarette Tests 
Number 4...THE COMMON LOON
FRANK MEN’S WEAR
Cue Man Tells Another
It’s Arrow 
for Comfort!
If you want your underwear really comfort­
able you’ll want Arrows. Arrow shorts have 
no binding center seam, and are generously 
cut. Form-fitting Arrow “Guards” and under- 
r.’iirts are made of fine quality cotton yarns. 
See your Arrow dealer!
Arrow Shorts *1.25 up T-Shirts *1.00
Athletic Shirts 85* Arrow “Guards” 950
\Jur fine-feathered friend isn’t being “taken-in” 
by all those tricky cigarette tests you hear so much about ! A fast puff of 
this brand—a sniff of that. A quick inhale—a fast exhale—and you’re 
supposed to know all about cigarettes. No! You don’t have to rely on quick- 
tricks. The sensible way to test a cigarette is to smoke
' ¡""Ipack after pack, day after day. That’s the test r , -¦
Camel asks you to make... the 30-Day Mildness Test. fj WJ I
Smoke Camels —and only Camels—for 30 days. Let your |fv | |
own “T-Zone” (T for Throat, T for Taste) be your 
proving ground. And when you’ve tried Camels as a *1
steady smoke, you’ll know why... I C n
Campus Headquarters for Arrow Products 
Nationally Known Clothing and Furnishings
LEONARD S MENS SHOP
Oaklandorner Forbes and Atwood St,
MEDI CIEOSI /FETI luFISc
than any other tigarette!
