Mike Hensel -- Dead or Alive ?? See Sports for the final answer to this grave situation
Boob -tube Line-up: the New Fall Season
rryn rri _j_Ine lartan
Volume 81, Issue 5Carnegie Mellon UniversityOctober 7,1986
Pittsburgh Gets Satellite Communications Center
By JEAN COOKSEY
Tartan staffwriter 
Armstrong International Teleports, Inc. 
(AIT) held a press conference at the 
Pittsburgh Hilton last Wednesday to
announce the arrival of the nation's newest 
teleport near Logan's Ferry, Pa. The tri­
state's first fixed-site satellite 
telecommunication's complex is now fully 
operational, with complete above-ground 
transmission nationwide. AIT's president,
Dale R. Caperell spoke of the system's
manifold benefits for large, Pittsburgh-based 
corporations, local businesses, and 
universities alike.
The teleport, which serves western
Pennsylvania, Ohio and West Virginia, can 
transmit and receive voice, data, and video 
signals completely via satellite to or from 
any local area. The satellite signals are 
converted to microwaves for transmission to 
local customers. The teleport therefore can 
oypass all use of expensive and often clumsy 
telephone lines. The teleport also provides 
local linkage for all national TV networks 
and programming from every part of the 
nation.
The satellite hub provides for duplicate 
transmissions of the same signal to different 
satellite locations around the country. Large 
corporations can thus send other branches the 
same information simultaneously. This is
AIT executives survey satellite installation
especially useful for teleconferencing, which 
saves on travel and time costs, and improves 
corporate efficiency. This benefit will 
increase exponentially next year when AIT 
installs its international antennae. Service 
will then extend to all countries viewing the 
North American satellites, from Europe to 
Japan, North and South America.
Local businesses can benefit from the time­
sharing opportunities offered by AIT. Mr. 
Caperell asserts that "either way you can't 
lose. It's cheaper than telephone lines, and
photo courtesy of Santa Cruz Communications
site near Logan’s Ferry
its reliability is 99.5%, which is better than 
traditional telephone lines." Like telephone 
companies, AIT offers "peak and off-peak" 
satellite transmission service for companies 
with a small budget.
Universities can successfully utilize the 
teleport in a variety of ways. They can 
quickly and efficiently transmit or receive 
"general educational material or medical 
information, if the school has a hospital 
connected with it," says Mr. Caperell. 
Lectures could be witnessed at different
universities simultaneously at an enormous 
time- and cost-saving advantage In addition, 
local news concerning a hospital's medical 
needs or a university's agenda becomes 
national news with the use of the satellite 
system.
Sporting events such as national collegiate 
football and basketball games and local team 
action can also travel along the satellite, at 
considerable savings for universities. Pirate 
games are already carried over the Hughes 
TV network via AIT. Mr. Caperell also sees 
employment opportunities for graduates in 
technical fields and sales positions 
"increasing as the teleport expands."
Mr. Caperell was not the only person to 
expound upon the teleport's benefits. In a 
prepared statement, Mr. Dan Bonassi of 
Senator Hines' office praised the new 
satellite installation. Mr. Bonassi related 
that Mr. Hines is extremely optimistic 
toward the "highly valued communication 
system" and its implications for the "media, 
business, and government."
Mr. Caperell likens the power to 
communicate information readily and at a 
low cost to controlling a large agricultural 
area's water supply. With the capability to 
"disperse information more readily" at a 
lower cost, Pittsburgh will undoubtedly 
benefit from the teleport as its technical and 
managerial outlook increases.
New Fire Alarm Network Installed on Campus
By NATALIE CAPONE
Special to the Tartan
A new fire alarm system is being designed 
md implemented in the residence halls and 
academic buildings of Carnegie Mellon. 
Prompted by a new city ordinance thatr
uires all buildings over 75 feet in height 
have wired-in smoke detectors in all 
public areas, the University decided to 
ipgrade the entire alarm system. Linda 
linstock, Director of Federal Compliances, 
called the existing system "an antique when 
t was put in," and says that the new system 
vill now go beyond the city codes 
equirements.
Director of Auxiliary Services Oscar Mayer 
aid that while the new city requirement only 
M :fected Morewood Gardens, the University 
elt that the "same level of protection should 
yt continued throughout housing." The new 
ystem, which has already been installed in 
VIorewood, Mudge, Boss, McGill, and 
Doherty Apartments, will "take signals not 
inly from pull stations, but also smoke 
ietectors in public areas (such as corridors 
ind stairwells), sprinklers, and will also 
indicate if a fire hose is being used," Mayer 
said. Soon, the system will also receive a 
signal if a fire door is opened.
The signal sources are then routed through 
i control panel that will sound the alarms, 
send notice to campus police, and call the 
City of Pittsburgh Fire Department.
The new system, however, presently seems 
to have some bugs in it. During the last 
few alarms, residents of Morewood Gardens 
>ave been required to stand outside for long
periods of time while the system is being 
reset. Acting Director of Carnegie Mellon 
Police, Lt. Mary Suber, explained that "the 
new system has bugs in it. [On one 
occasion] we couldn't reset the alarm, and 
had to call the electrician."
Lenny Libbon, electrician for Physical 
Plant, agrees that there have been some 
problems "with the link-up. The system 
went into alarm and didn't shut off. We're 
trying to correct this the best we can, and are 
trying to turn it off as soon as we can."
Libbon feels that there have been a number 
of "unnecessary alarms" that activate the 
system, attributing some of them to 
vandalism by students. "The sophisticated 
equipment tells where the alarm is exactly. 
If the detector light is blinking, that means 
smoke went into the detector." He cites the 
releasing of a fire extinguisher into a 
detector, smoke blown into a detector, and a 
falsely pulled pull-station as instances of 
vandalism.
Morewood Gardens Area Coordinator 
Teresa Campbell thinks that Libbon is "too 
quick to blame students for false alarms that 
happen when there really isn’t a reason." 
While "some were indeed vandalism," as far 
as she is concerned, some of the alarms were 
due to a "malfunction within the system."
Campbell is concerned over the fact that 
residents are being inconvenienced by the 
problems with the system. "1 don't believe 
in making students stand outside for two 
hours unless the building is blazing. There's 
a problem with the Morewood fire alarm, 
that's the bottom line. It needs to be fixed."
"According to the information I was given, 
the system should have been ready on July 
first, and I'm concerned over why it's not 
ready to go," said Campbell. She feels that 
since the Sunday, September 28th early 
morning fire, (in the fourth floor stairwell of 
Morewood Gardens, caused by a serving tray 
that was set on fire), there has been a "bigger 
response than in the past two months. This 
is due, in part, to the fact that numerous 
students did not wake up."
During that instance (of the stairwell fire), 
the City of Pittsburgh Fire Department was 
not automatically called, and a delay of 
almost 20 minutes until their arri\ al existed. 
Libbon attributes this to a malfunction in 
the link-ups that has since been corrected. 
As the system exists presently, both security 
and the city fire department are automatically 
called.
Plans for fixing the system are being 
implemented immediately. "Within two 
weeks, all homs in Morewood will be 
replaced," promised Rick Yates, Engineering 
Manager for Design and Construction, an 
action that will hopefully resolve the 
problems of students sleeping through the 
alarms. He estimates that all of housing 
will be protected by the new system by the 
end of next summer. The buildings that 
have not been hooked up with the new 
system yet are still protected by the old 
system.
"I think that when the bugs are out, it will 
be the best fire alarm system possible," said 
Campbell. This is a feeling that was echoed 
by everyone involved, as they work to meet
the University's goal of what Yates calls "a 
committment to the safety of the students 
that is well above the norm."
AT&T Grants $500,000
PITTSBURGH—AT&T has awarded more 
than $500,000 in grants for campus 
improvements and research activities at 
Carnegie Mellon University.
AT&T grants to Carnegie Mellon included: 
—$200,000 toward construction of a new 
Electronics Technology building.
—$39,200 to Bruce Krogh, assistant 
professor of electrical and computer
engineering, for the purchase of computer
workstations and other equipment to be used 
in research in discrete manufacturing and 
assembly automation.
—$30,700 to T.E. Schlesinger, assistant 
professor of electrical and computer
engineering, for a dye laser for optical 
characterization of semiconductors.
—$30,100 to Schlesinger for a spectro­
meter for semiconductor materials.
—Computer donations totaling $240,800 
to John A. Pople, university professor of 
chemistry, and Mark Schervish, associate 
professor of statistics, for their research.

---------------------------------------------------

Page 2—The Tartan—October 7,1986
manager James Carville said Thornburgh's 
announcement showed that "Scranton can't 
stand up alone and fight." Polls this week 
show the race as a toss-up.
$3 Million Cocaine 
Bust in Philadelphia
A Colombian native and a Philadelphian 
have been accused of offering to sell up to 
three million dollars worth of cocaine to 
undercover federal agents.
A five-count indictment, filed in federal 
court yesterday charges them with conspiracy 
to sell ten kilograms for $260,000. Accused 
are Carlos Orlando Hemandez-Otero, who is 
a Colombian citizen now living in Florida, 
and Fernando Figueroa, of Philadelphia.
According to the indictment, the men drove 
the cocaine to Philadelphia from Florida on 
September 6 and conducted the sale the next 
night at a Philadelphia hotel.
Assistant U.S. Attorney Barbara Chohan 
said the two men indicated they could obtain 
50 to 100 kilos of the drug.
Today's news blurbs were brought to you by the Associated Press, the letter 'Q', and the number 3.
World
News
Congress Overrides 
Reagan's Veto of 
South Africa 
Sanctions
The South African Foreign Minister says 
Thursday's U.S. Senate vote to enact 
punitive anti-apartheid sanctions was based 
on an "emotional wave." R. F. Botha says 
the vote ignores South Africa's efforts to 
reform race laws. The Senate voted 78-21 to 
override President Reagan's veto of the 
sanctions bill—following a House override 
Monday. The measure that now becomes law 
severely restricts trade and travel with South 
Africa.
Harvard Divests
Harvard University officials plan to sell 
nearly $160 million worth of stocks and 
bonds to cut investment ties to South 
Africa. Harvard's treasurer says the portfolio 
involves eight companies that deal with 
South Africa.
Shultz Defends Bad Info
Secretary of State Shultz says there's 
nothing wrong with distributing false 
information to disorient opponents. 
Administration officials have confirmed there 
was a disinformation campaign designed to 
convince the Libyan government that the 
U.S. was planning another attack. But 
Schultz also said he knows of no decision to 
tell lies to the media.
Canada and Soviets Form Trade Ties
Canada and the Soviet Union have signed a 
five-year trade agreement. Under the deal, the 
Soviet Union will buy at least 30 million 
metric tons of wheat and feed grain over the 
next five years. The Soviet Union is 
Canada's best grain customer—buying about
one-fourth of Canadian exports each year.
News
Testing to Curb AIDS
Researchers in New York say public health 
testing for AIDS is the best way to curb the 
spread of the incurable disease. The Hastings 
Center in New York—studying ethics in 
medicine—says confidentiality of such 
testing is the key, or those most at risk will 
not submit to testing.
Congress to Fight Hacker 
Crimes
A measure to fight computer crime is now 
headed to the White House for President 
Reagan's signature. The rewritten federal 
wiretap bill passed by Congress would cover 
unauthorized monitoring of computer or 
video data, or illicit reception of cellular car 
phones.
Airline Deregulation Creates Competition
According to noted economist and former 
presidential advisor Aired Kahn, airline
Mr. and Miss Varsity1986
Voting
Wednesday, October 15,1986 
9:00am - 8:00pm 
Skibo, Grey Matter
Remember to bring your CMU ID.
Nominated are:
Robert Bowie 
Bob Ferrara 
Mike Hensel 
Kip Jackson 
Joe Mancuso 
Mike Talentino
Sarah Fay 
Whitney Gordon 
Cathy Hays 
Sherry Hess 
Paula Johnson 
Jackie Yonek
—Sponsored by Student Alumni Relations Council
date: Thursday & Friday 
October 9 & 10 
time: 10am - 4am 
place: Baker Hall
«X-—
deregulation is creating the competition that 
the government intended.
The former chairman of the Civil 
Aeronautics Board also said today in State 
College that the competition might whittle 
the industry to six major integrated airlines, 
including Texas Air Corporation, United and 
Delta.
Texas Air Corporation, which already owns 
Continental Airlines and New York Air, 
plans to buy Eastern Airlines and Peoples
Express.
The U.S. transportation department 
approved the Eastern purchase Wednesday, 
the the Justice Department said it would not 
oppose the purchase of Peoples Express.
Kahn said deregulation has helped reduce 
prices, pressuring companies to hold down 
costs and boost their efficiency.
Gubernatorial Mud- 
slinging
Republican Governor Dick Thornburgh 
says that Democratic gubernatorial candidate 
Robert Casey is trying to wreck
Pennsylvania's economic image. The 
Governor said Casey is using outdated, 
misleading, economic statistics and is 
overlooking the facts. Thornburgh said today 
in Harrisburg that the state has more people 
working than ever before and the state's 
unemployment rate is now below the 
national average.
Casey is opposing Republican Lieutenant 
Governor William Scranton in the
Gubernatorial race. Casey’s campaign
Local
News

---------------------------------------------------

October 7, 1986—-The Tartan—Page 3
Rape - A Growing National Problem
By DRUE MILLER
Tartan News Editor
On Friday, September 14 at 6:53 p.m., a 
female student walked into a bathroom in 
Baker Hall. Once inside, a male who had 
hidden in a stall came out, exposed himself, 
and grabbed her. She pushed him aside and 
ran out of the bathroom. He followed her. 
Two students walking by at the time saw 
him and chased him out of Baker Hall and 
into Schenley Park. He got away.
The next night, at 1:05 a.m., another 
female student was walking home from the 
fraternities. Along Morewood Avenue, by 
Sigma Nu, she was grabbed by a male. He 
raped her. He also got away.
Lois Cox, Dean of Student Affairs, claims 
that there are maybe one or two rapes and/or 
attacks of this nature every few years at 
Carnegie Mellon. "Often in the fall there 
are...attempted assaults," she assesses, 
"because we're in an urban area." Assistant 
Director of Pitt Security Walt Waters says 
they have been "very fortunate as far as rapes 
are concerned." 12-13 years ago Pitt had 
'quite a few rapes on or around the campus 
area’", but none in the past few years. While 
two attacks in one weekend don't qualify as a 
rash of sexual assaults, it's still a high 
enough number for people to take note of. 
Cox asserts that the rape was not publicized 
in order to protect the student's right to 
privacy. Still, she feels it is important 
enough for the students to be aware of, given 
the "isolated feeling" the campus provides: 
many students feel safe walking around alone 
at night, because CMU, unlike Pitt, doesn't 
have many strangers roaming around. Cox 
claims that in every case where the 
rapist/attacker has been identified, they have 
been outsiders.
Lt. Mary Suber of CMU Security agrees, 
claiming that most incidents of this nature 
have involved outsiders exposing themselves
to students. She says a common ploy is for 
someone in a parked car to call a student 
over on the pretense of asking directions. 
In fact, Suber says that there haven’t been 
any rapes in 8 years "that I can remember." 
Even so, Security has added a foot patrol (to 
backup the existing car patrol) in the 
Morewood/Mudge area from 10 p.m. to 6 
a.m. weekdays. She hopes the new patrol 
will someday offer weekend coverage as 
well. Additionally, the doors on the Frew 
Street side of Baker and Porter Halls are now 
locked from Friday night to Monday 
morning.
Rape is the "fastest growing violent crime 
in America," according to Ellen Kerr, 
Education Coordinator
for Pittsburgh Action Against Rape. Before 
she is 18, a woman's chances of being raped 
are l-in-4; after that, the odds drop to l-in-3. 
Rape is not limited to dark alleys in the 
middle of the night, as many believe. It is a 
"round the clock crime", relatively evenly 
spread out among urban, suburban and rural 
areas. Kerr claims that half of all rapes occur 
with someone the victim knows and often 
trusts, in either the victim's or rapist's 
home. Rape does not always involve a 
weapon or the threat of physical force; 
victims of date rape don't always realize that 
they've been raped, because they weren't 
threatened. Often the woman thinks "did I 
cause this? Was he expecting this of me, 
even though I said 'no'?" Kerr feels that 
colleges cover up date rape by not trying to 
combat the idea that drunk girls get what 
they ask for, and not encouraging reporting 
it.
Last year, a rape awareness workshop was 
held in Mudge, which no more than 15 
people attended. Kerr attributes this to the 
common misconceptions people often have 
about rape: "It can't happen to me." "I don't 
attract attention to myself." "I don't walk
around alone at night." and so forth. Most 
people assume rape victims are "young, 
pretty, and well-dressed,": not so. PAAR 
saw 1200 victims last year, ranging in age 
from 2 to 92. Of those, about 5% were 
male, 25% of the 600 patients under 18. 
Kerr says that males are more reluctant to 
report rape than women. Interviews with 
convicted rapists have shown that victims 
are often chosen on the basis of their 
vulnerability and availability, not physical 
attractiveness. Kerr stresses that rape is not a 
sexual crime because of this. Also, most 
rapes are planned. Last year, the Shadyside 
Rapist made a habit of pointing out to his 
victims where they'd parked their car, left 
their keys, which door they'd used, etc., after 
he'd raped them. As Kerr puts it, "Guys who 
rape aren’t damb. They know exactly what 
they're doing:"
Kerr offers the following preventative 
measures: always walk with a sense of 
purpose, even if you're lost, until you get to 
a public area where you can ask directions; 
try to go out in groups, if possible; act as 
though you are in control of yourself, even 
if you aren’t; have your keys ready by the 
time you reach you car or house; and look 
around as soon as you get inside, since most 
people tend to relax immediately once they 
open their door.
If you are raped, it is extremely important 
that you report it at once, and not shower or 
change your clothing until a medical 
examination has been completed. Go to the 
emergency room of a hospital (PAAR will 
send someone to accompany you and offer 
support). Should you decide to go through 
the legal process, PAAR will help there as 
well with legal advocates and people to 
support you when going to police stations, 
line-ups, etc.
PAAR offers emotional counseling as
continued on page 6
DSA Sponsors Anti-Apartheid Speaker
The Three Rivers Youth Section of 
the Democratic Socialists of America 
(DSA) will sponsor a talk, "Freedom 
Now!" The Anti-Apartheid Struggle in 
South Africa," to be presented by 
African National Congress (ANC) 
representative Susan Mnumzana. The 
event will take place on Tuesday, 
October 14, 1986 at 12:30 p.m. in 
Skibo Ballroom, at Carnegie Mellon 
University (located near Forbes and 
Morewood in Oakland). Suggested 
donation: $3 (no charge to CMU 
students). For more information, 
contact Laurel at 421-6405.
Her message from the ANC about 
the struggle for self-determination in 
Southern Africa highlights the 
importance of divestment and the 
imposition of sanctions against South 
Africa by the United States. Her 
appearance here coincides with 
divestment rallies at the University of 
Pittsburgh (October 8 and 14) and at 
Carnegie Mellon (October 17).
Susan Mnumzana studied and taught 
Afrikaans and English at the 
University of the North in South 
Africa. In 1976 she went to Lusaka, 
Zambia, where whe worked in the 
Women's Section of the International 
Bureau of the ANC. While living in 
Zambia, Ms. Mnumzana made several 
trips to the educational system for 
(exiled) black South Africans.
Ms. Mnumzana was the ANC 
representative in France during 1983 
and 1984. Since that time she has 
represented the ANC in the United
States.
Shed light on
the matter
FREE WALK-IN TUTORING
SUNDAY THROUGH THURSDAY - 7 -10 pim.
CALCULUS PH 126 A
(Pro, I, II, III)
PHYSICS PH 126B
CHEMISTRY PH 126C
ACADEMIC WRITING PROBLEMS PH 125B
FINANCIAL ACCOUNTING PH 226B
ECONOMICS PH 226C
INTRO. TO COMPUTING WeH 5415
Sponsored by Counseling and Student Dsvslopmsnt C#nt*r Division of Student Affairs

---------------------------------------------------

FINALLY A FREE FLIGHT PLAN JUST FOR STUDENTS.
YOU WON'T GET A BREAK LIKE THISONCE YOU'RE OUT INTHE REAL WORLD.
INTRODUCING COUfGiATE FUGHTBANIG FROM 
CONTMENIAL AND NEW YORK AIR.If you’re a full-time student at an accredited college or uni- versity you can join our Collegiate FlightBankfM \ou’ll receive a memoership card and number that will allow you to get 10% off Continental and New "fork Airs already low fares. In addition, you’ll get a one-time certificate good for $25 off any domestic roundtrip flight. Plus, you’ll be able to earn trips to places like Florida, Denver, Los Angeles, even London and the South Pacific. Because every time you fly you’ll earn mile- age towards a free trip. And if you sign up now you’ll also receive 3 free issues of BusinessV&ek Careers magazine.
Or the grand prize, for the number one student referral champion in the nation: a Porsche and one year of unlimited coach air travel.And how do you get to be the referral champion? Just sign up as many friends as possible, and make sure your member­ship number is on their application. In order to be eligible for any prize you and your referrals must sign up before 12/31/86 and each referral must fly 3 segments on Continental or New York Air before 6/15/87. And you’ll not only get credit for the enrollment, you’ll also get 500 bonus miles.So cut the coupon, and send it in now. Be sure to include your current full time student ID number. That way it’ll only cost you $10 for one year ($15 after 12/31/86) and $40 for four years ($60 after 12/31/86). Your membership kit, including referral forms, will arrive in 3 to 4 weeks. If you have a credit card, you can call us at 1-800-255-4321 and enroll even faster.Now more than ever it pays to stay in school.
SIGN ME UP NOW! (Please pnnt or rype) ? 1 Year ($10) ? 2 Year, ($20) ? 3 Year. ($30) ? 4 Year, ($40)Must he submitted bv 12/31/86.
Name________________________________________________Date of Birth------------------------
”1
This Porsche 924 can be yours if you are the national 
referral champion.
SIGN UP YOUR FRIENDS AND EARN A PORSCHE.But what’s more, for the 10 students on every campus who enroll the most active student flyers from their college there are some great rewards: 1 free trip wherever Continental or New York Air flies in the mainland U.S., Mexico or Canada.
College..Address-
.Zip-
Permanent Address.-Zip_
Full time student ID #_.Year of Graduation.
Account Number. 
Signature X
? Check/Money Order Enclosed PLEASE DON’T SEND CASH
? American Express ? Visa ? MasterCard ? Diner’s Club
________________________________________Expiration Date.
FOR MEMBERSHIP APPLICANTS UNDER THE AGE OF 18: The undersigned is the parent/ 
guardian of the membership applicant named heteon, and I consent to his/her participation in the 
Collegiate RightBank program.
SignatureX—...  ----- — ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Send this coupon to: Collegiate RightBank
PO. Box 297847 _ „
-Houston, TX 77297 761
Complete terms and conditions of program will accompany membership kit _I
CONTINENTAL (5 NEW YORK AIR
Some blackout periods J*ply far dacan travel are! reward redemption Complete term» and conditions of program will accompany membership kit Certain restrictions apply Current full time student status required for each year of membership To earn any prize a mmmum of 12 referrals is required All referral award winners will be announced by 8/1/87 10% discount applies to mainland U.S travel only. Students must be between the ages of 16 and 25. Rnche 924 registration, license fees, and taxes are the responsibility of the recipient C 1966 Continental Air Lines, Inc.

---------------------------------------------------

October 7,1986—The Tartan—Page 5
Business Opportunities Conference - What It Is, Why It Is
By ERIC W. LEULIETTE
Tartan Staffwriter
"We're taking charge of our careers, 
comments Roger Aguinaldo, chairman of the 
first annual Business Opportunities
Conference (BOC). The conference is 
scheduled for November 17, 1986, from 11 
am. to 5 p.m. Organized and run by 
students, the conference will bring 
companies to campus and opportunities to 
students who choose to attend or organize 
the BOC.
This first BOC was created by IM majors 
who have seen five Technology Opportunity 
Conferences organized by engineering 
students. "We know we are being trained in 
management, so if those engineers can put 
on an excellent conference, why shouldn't
we.'?" Aguinaldo characterizes the BOC as
more aggressive than the TOC. "We have
more of a business sense," he says.
Unable to obtain funds from the Student 
Senate, the Association of Industrial 
Management and Economics (AIME), 
obtained "monetary and mental support" 
from the deans of GSIA, notably Dean 
Elizabeth Bailey and Associate Dean Tim 
McGuire. AIME began planning the 
conference earlier this year with several 
loosely structured brain-storming meetings.
Aguinaldo and Director of Corporate 
Matters John P. Jones expect representatives 
from Procter & Gamble, Morgan Guarantee, 
American Express, Chase Manhatten, 
CityBank, E. F. Hutton, Mellon Bank and 
Merrill Lynch to attend the conference. 
Though the committee organizing the 
conference has set a goal of convincing forty 
corporations to attend, it was not 
disappointed to learn that only seven
Psychology Department Fall 1986 Colloquium Series
Dr. Carol Dweck (U. of Illinois) 
"Implicit Theories of Intelligence:
October 9 
4 p.m.
October 30 Dr. Frank Bellezza (Ohio University)
4 p.m. "The ABCD's of Mental Cueing"
Effects on Learning"
November 6 Dr. John Michon (University of Gronigen, the Netherlands)
4 p.m. "Knowing Time"
November 20 Dr. John Black (Yale University)
4 p.m. "Changes in Knowledge Representation with Increasing
Expertise in Using Computers"
All lectures are open to the public, in the Adamson Wing (BH 135) 
Coffee will be served before each lecture in the Psychology Lounge, 
BH 336-D. For more info, call the Reception Office at 268-2781.
CMU Chemistry Prize Awarded
PITTSBURGH—Benjamin Widom,
Goldwin Smith Professor of Chemistry at 
Cornell University, has received the $20,000 
Dickson Prize in Science at Carnegie Mellon 
University for his contributions in physics 
and chemistry.
The Dickson Prize is awarded annually to a 
person or persons who have made 
outstanding contributions to the field of 
science in the United States. Dr. Joseph Z. 
Dickson, a Pittsburgh physician, and his 
wife, Agnes Fisher Dickson, provided funds 
in their wills to support the prize.
"Ben Widom's work has been
LONDON
INTERNSHIPS
• Art/Architecture
• Business/Economics
• Engineering
• Human/Health Services
• Journalism/Communications
• Performing Arts
• Politics
All programmes include: 16 semester hour credits, 10-week 
internship, apartment, British faculty. Offered fall, spring and 
summer semesters.
BOSTON UNIVERSITY
NAME___
ADDRESS. 
CITY_____STATEZIP
? Art/Architecture; ? Business/Econ; ? Engineering; ? Hum/Health Serv;
? Joum/Comm; ? Performing Arts; ? Politics 09
Return To London Intwnsftps. 143 Bay State Rd . Boston. MA 02215 (617) 353 9888
representatives had made concrete 
reservations by last Thursday. (The 
committe meets at 5 p.m. every Thursday in 
the Dean's conference room of GSIA.) The 
conference has already had some success: 
several companies have arranged interviews 
through career services and placement for the 
first time.
The Business and Opportunities Conference 
has several purposes. First, it will promote 
the difference between CMU’s industrial 
education and other universities' programs. 
"Our education is in management as well as 
in business," explians Aguinaldo, "that puts 
people ahead of just business."
In addition to letting companies get to 
know CMU, the BOC has a more personal 
side. Students, especially sophomores and 
juniors, can get to know the corporate 
representatives well. The organizers of the
rUie 'Talking ¿Moose <Sez.-
BOC hope to copy some of the success of 
the Technology Opportunities Conference. 
Over the TOC's five year history, three 
students have received firm job offers on the 
floor of the conference. Several companies 
have called the TOC later, offering 
placement for especially the conference's 
organizers. According to Aguinaldo, a major 
reason to join the group organizing the BOC 
is to open up excellent business contacts 
while fine tuning one's career goals.
Finally, John P. Jones hopes for "a wider 
campus awareness of what we're [the BOC] 
doing." Both Jones and Aguinaldo agree that 
GSIA and IM are closely linked, but they 
wish to make a separate name for IM, 
somewhat independent of the graduate 
school. For now, the organizers are 
attempting to build a reputation. "We can 
only go up," sums up Aguinaldo.
Don't Do Drugs...
DO the Ï1EWS!!!!
MikeH
CWeros Siaff ¿Meetings every ¿Monday ® 4-^0/ 'Tartan ¿Mam Of fie
groundbreaking in modem condensed matter 
physics and he has made great impact on the 
chemical engineering community," says 
John L. Anderson, head of the Chemical 
Engineering Department at Carnegie Mellon.
Widom's 1965 paper on "the scaling 
hypothesis near critical points" was 
significant to the field of physics. His 
concept led to Ken Wilson's 1982 Nobel 
Prize in Physics, Anderson says.
His major interests include statisical 
mechanics and phase equilibria. His work 
has resulted in methods to predict the 
thermodynamic properties that are critically
important to separation technologies.
Everyone’s talking 
about Shadyside 
Commons — the 
4-star luxury ren­
tals close to the best shops, 
restaurants, parks and galler­
ies in town!
Each charming, spacious 
apartment features lofty ceil­
ings and exposed brick walls & 
beams. Gourmet kitchens with 
microwaves. And individual 
washers and dryers. There’s 
an open-air courtyard and free 
parking, too. Come visit Pitts­
burgh’s rising new star today!
401 Amberson Ave., Pittsburgh • 6K3-9101 
Sales office and furnished models open 
Mon.-Fri. 10-6, Sat. & Sun. 12-5. Studio,
1 & 2 bedroom apartments from J540/mo. 
Includes FREE PARKING!
Developed and Managed 
by Historic Landmarks for Living,
The one. The only. The best.

---------------------------------------------------

Page 6—The Tartan—October 7, 1986
U.S. Agrees On Sanctions Against South Africa
By JOSH RUBEN
Tartan Stqffwriter
The United States now has an official 
policy of economic sanctions against South 
Africa, due to Congress's overriding of the 
President's veto of the sanctions bill last 
week.
On Monday, the veto was overridden in 
the House of Representatives by a 313-83 
vote. The bill was originally passed in the 
House by a vote of 308-77. Despite die 
veto's outcome, the White House was 
confident that the Republican controlled 
Senate would uphold the President's decision 
by not giving the bill the necessary two- 
thirds majority vote needed to override.
In June, the House passed a bill that would 
cause total U.S. divestment in South Africa, 
but the bill died in the Senate. Reagan saw 
this as a positive sign that the Senate would 
support his veto on the new bill. On 
Thursday, the Senate followed the House 
and voted to override the veto by a vote of 
78-21. The 21 votes that supported the veto 
were from Republican Senators. The bill 
was originally passed in the Senate by a 84- 
14 vote earlier this year.
Reagan vetoed the sanctions bill just 4 
hours before it would have passed into law. 
White House sources say that Reagan 
wanted to be sure that if he did veto the bill, 
Congress would back him up. After the bill 
was originally passed, aides said that Reagan 
would veto within ten days. He waited until 
the last minute, according to sources, 
contacting Republican legislators to see if a 
veto would hold up.
According to Senator Richard Lugar (R- 
Ind.), South African Foriegn Minister, 
Roelof "Pik" Botha tried to pressure farm 
belt Senators to support the veto by
threatening an embargo on U.S. grain. 
During the Senate debate on Wednesday, 
Sen. Jesse Helms (R-N.C.) organized a 
telephone conference between two farm belt 
senators and Botha. Helms called Sen. 
Edward Zorinsky (D-Neb.) and Sen Charles 
Grassley (R-Iowa) off of the Senate floor and 
into the Republican cloak room to talk with 
Botha. Botha told Zorinsky "The moment 
you override the President's veto, South 
Africa will ban U.S. grain imports." He 
also said that South Africa would no longer 
serve as a port for landlocked African nations 
to recieve U.S. grain. He added that South 
Africa would boost grain imports if the veto 
was upheld.
Lugar, who is one of the key authors of the 
bill, announced the Botha call to the press 
and called the Foriegn Minister "despicable" 
for trying to manipulate the U.S. Senate 
through "bribery and intimidation." Lugar 
said nothing in response to Helms’ action. 
Sen. Edward Kennedy (D-Mass), who also 
helped draft the bill, reacted by calling the 
aparthied government in South Africa "[a 
bunch of] bullies and thugs."
Botha called these criticisms "laughable." 
He said that his action on Wednesday was 
the same type of diplomatic practice that the 
United States uses everyday. He told U.S. 
reporters that U.S. Senators come to his 
country and criticize it and he does not call 
them names. Botha added that he could not 
understand the reaction of certain Senators to 
his efforts to "protect" his country.
The White House views the veto override 
as Reagan's worst defeat ever on Capitol 
Hill. The President could not support the 
bill because he thought that it would "hurt 
the South African blacks" more than put 
pressure on the white minority to end its
aparthied policy. Since his administration 
began, Reagan has wanted "constructive 
engagement" with the South African 
government. He hoped that the U.S. could 
persuade rather than force South Africa to 
end aparthied. Reagan said that he "deeply 
regrets" Congress' action. In order to escape 
total defeat however, the President did 
impose some minor sanctions by executive 
order before the veto was overridden.
Lugar tried to persuade Reagan to back the 
bill. The President even considered but later 
rejected the idea of sending diplomats to 
Pretoria. A Congressional source said that 
Reagan told Lugar "I can't believe you could 
go with the Kennedy sanctions."
Lugar is Chairman of the Senate Foreign 
Relations Committee and was responsible 
for "steering" the bill through Congress. 
During the Senate debate, Lugar said "We 
aren’t destroying the South African 
government; that government is self 
destructive."
Sen. Larry Pressler and other lawmakers 
who voted for the veto claimed that the 
President "shouldn't go to Iceland [to meet 
with Soviet leader Mikhail Gorbachev] with 
a defeat." In opposition to this idea, 
Kennedy argued that "[if the veto is upheld] 
Botha would win, not Reagan."
Foreign Minister Botha claims that the 
sanctions will hurt the U.S. and other 
African nations more than South Africa. 
Botha stated that Pretoria will have to cut 
back on trade with other African countries 
since the sanctions will prohibit South 
Africa from exporting these goods to 
America. He added that the grain embargo 
will cause a grain glut for American fanners.
Some of the sanctions are effective 
immediately, including the suspension of all
U.S. air travel to and from South Africa, 
banning exportation of crude oil, weapons, 
and munitions to South Africa , and 
prohibiting U.S. banks from accepting 
deposits from South African government 
agencies except for one account for 
diplomatic purposes. The sanctions on 
South African imports will go into effect in 
90 days. These will account for almost 
$350 million of South Africa's $2.2 billion 
worth of goods that are received by the U.S.
The sanctions will be lifted if South 
Africa meets certain conditions, including: 
freeing imprisoned African National 
Congress Leader Nelson Mandela, and other 
political prisoners, allowing the formation 
of political parties, and lifting the state of 
emergency.
Rape
continued from page 3
well, even if you decide not to press charges. 
Kerr states that most victims of rape go 
through a period of self-blame, and anger 
that rapists are still out there. An estimated 
3% of all rapists are found guilty and jailed. 
Often, people who have gone through rape 
counseling will help out other rape victims, 
and emerge from the process as "stronger 
people."
Kerr feels that women are being "given 
more permission to say they've been raped," 
but that there is still a "strong social 
stigma" attached to a rape victim. While 
services for victims and awareness of the 
problem are increasing, "it’s going to be a 
long time before rape stops happening."
Pittsburgh Action Against Rape can be 
reached at 682-0219.
Rockwell International cordially invites all Junior and Senior level students in Science, Math and Engineering interested in full-time, co-op, or summer employment to a recep­tion in the Ballroom of Skibo Hall on October 14,1986 from 5:30 p.m. until 8:30 p.m.
Rockwell International offers an outstanding compensation and benefits package which includes paid vacation, group insurance, dental plan, paid holidays, retirement plan, credit union, modern and safe working conditions, and much more.
Come and discuss career opportunities with Rockwell International. If you are unable to attend, please submit your resume, in confidence, to: Michele Soule, Employment Department, North American Space Operations, Rockwell International, Rocky Flats Plant, P.O. Box 464, Golden, Colorado 80402-0464. Equal Opportunity Employer M/E U.S. Citizenship required.
Rockwell International
...where science gets down to business

---------------------------------------------------

CMU Student Branches of SWE and IEEE
*Wc<I.Oct.S, 5:00pm UH 2315
The C Programming Language: Past Present, 
and Future. Brian Kernighan, Bell Labs, NJ.
*Tliur*0ctJ>, 10» hi to 4|iin Ski bolt ¡ill room
A conference where students from all academic 
diaiplines are invited to come and talk freely 
and informally with, company representatives.
Air Products ~ Alcoa ~ AT&T ~ Bell Communications 
Boeing - Burroughs ~ Campbell Soup Co. - Corning Glass
Digital ~ Dow Chemical ~ E.I. duPont ~ Eastman Kodak
General Dynamics ~ General Electric ^General Motors 
Goodyear Aerospace - Goodyear Tires & Rubber^ Harris 
Hewlett Packard ~ Honeywell ~ IBM ~Jet Propulsion Labs 
Lawrence Livermore ~ LOF Glass ^Martin Marietta 
Aerospace McDonnell Douglas - Microsoft Corp.~ Morgan 
Guaranty Trust ~ Motorola ~ Northrop - Ohio State
MBA Program ~ Olin Corp. ~ Perkin - Elmer Corp.
Procter & Gamble ~ Sanders Associates ~ Sandia National 
Laboratories ~ The Singer Company - Kearfott Division 
Southern New England Bell ~ Texas Instruments ~ TRW 
Union Carbide United Technologies '* U. S. Navy 
Westinghouse ~ 3 - M Corporation.........

---------------------------------------------------

Page 8—The Tartan—October 7,1986
Minutes of the Student Senate September 30,1986
Meeting called to order 7:10pm.
PresentAyre, Cohen, Flynn, Frank, Friedland,
Giles, Goldstein, Greenberg, Hausman, Kaplan,
Kombrek, Levy, Lewis, Lonsky, Maxwell,
McDonnell, Mukherjee, Patnaik, Robitshek,
Rocher, Salley, Scanlon, Shipley, Stachura,
Staresinic, West 
Ex-officio members: Dean Cox, Dean Walter,
Den burg, DeLeon, Chu.
Absent: Larson.
Audience Participation: Dr. Miller of the
Campus Ministry spoke to Senate about world 
hunger and what we as a campus can do. Dr Miller 
suggested that we have a fasting day where a student 
signs off a meal and that money goes to a world 
hunger organization (Oxfam). If anyone is 
interested in planning something like this contact 
Dr.
Miller.
Dean Walter: no report.
Dean Cox:no report.
President:.!im Denburg Tailgate party was a 
success. Thank-you Senate for all your help. 
Attended a Faculty Senate meeting. It supports the 
Enthusiasm Committee. I'm attending the AAUS 
conference this weekend. If you have any input, 
see me before I leave. Wed Oct. 15 at 9pm there 
will be a committee meeting to explore the 
university's position on Apartheid in S. Africa. 
SDC:Leanne ChuThank you SDC and Senate for 
helping with the Tailgate party.
IFC:Teri Jones There will be a blood drive 
tomorrow in the Wherret Rm. in Skibo. Greek 
Weekend is this weekend.
Chairman: Peter Cohen Senate regrets the 
resignation of Senator Cherie Jagerski, chairman of 
Academic Affairs. Senator Eric Rocher is appointed 
chairman of Academic Affairs until next elections. 
Treasurer:Fred DeLeon no report 
Academic Affairs: Currently working on
Teaching Center, AcademicResponse Program, and 
complaints of the registrar.
Campus Affairs: Senator Ayre is the new vice­
chair of CampusAffairs. Senator Shipley spoke to 
Physical Plant of the lack of left-handed desks, and 
the lousy classrooms in the basement of Porter 
Hall. He reported that at the present time the 
money for improving lecture halls has been used.
CA had a meeting with VP Rogers about 
the condition of the track. VP Rogers 
wants proposals and bids for a new track 
on his desk by Oct 9. Coffee machines will 
be put in Baker/Porter Halls as soon as a 
suitible place can be found. CA met with 
Campus Police and told of thestudents 
complaints of poor service. Doherty Hall 
sub basements are still in poor condition 
despite much complaint. Conditions are 
unhealthy.Senator Lonsky: Are
contraceptives still being sold in Entropy? 
Not any more because they don’t sell.
Senator Giles: UDS isn't giving out
temporary meal cards - why?
Funding & Recognition: THe
Carnegie Care Unit was recognized as 
funded. Carnegie Care Unit was granted 
$1547.00. Student Union was granted 
$7962.00.
Public Relations: There will be posters 
advertising logo contest for Senate. We 
may build a loft in the office. The next 
happy hour will be after mid-semester 
break.
Old Business: none!
New Business: Senator Giles: Had
many complaints about the 
distribution of parking permits on campus. 
Parking may not be going by its listv 
Senator Maxwell: What is the policy on 
contraversial speakers on campus? Talk to 
Senators Greenberg and Staresinic who just 
recently brought up an ammendment 
concerning this. A committee is in the 
making to reduce the glut of amendments 
being passed. Senator Giles brought up a 
resolution. It states: In the light of the 
present situation of the track, we the 
Student Senate would like to express our 
dissatisfaction with the Warner Hall 
columns facelift. We find the facelift to be 
unnecessary cosmetic weak and frivolous. 
Discussion was tabled until next week. 
Announcements: PR mtg 6pm Thurs.
CA mtg. Mon. 9:30pm.
Meeting Adjourned 8:25pm.
B. ANDREW JANOFF, M.D.
IS PLEASED TO ANNOUNCE THE OPENING OF HIS
SQUIRREL HILL OFFICE
FOR THE PRACTICE OF
OBSTETRICS AND GYNECOLOGY
Ultrasonography Aminocentesis 
Chorionic Villi Sampling • In-Vitro Fertilization 
Genetic Counseling
AT
1900 MURRAY AVENUE, SUITE 301
OFFICE HOURS BY APPOINTMENT TELEPHONE (412) 422-5000
STUDENT DISCOUNT WITH I.D.
Anonymous SUPA Letters Cause Concern
By KARL BARNHART
Tartan Staffwriter
Signed "FIVE MPM STUDENTS", an 
anonymous letter was sent to both the Dean of 
SUPA, Dr. Brian Berry, and the Associate 
Dean of Executive Education, Dr. Harry R. 
Faulk, revealing dissatisfaction in the Master 
of Public Management program. Expressing 
"...discontent and even shock...", the students' 
predominate complaint was with the 
admissions policy. That was last year.
This year another letter was sent. It was 
more emphatic, sent to the new SUPA Dean, 
Dr. Alfred Bloonstein, and signed "SIXTEEN 
MPM STUDENTS". Its point was more 
specific: "When we graduate, we feel our 
MPM credentials will lack legitimacy."
Again the letter particularly addressed 
admission. The biggest concern revolves 
around the admission of non-baccalaureate 
students into the masters program. But 
according to Faulk, the practice no longer
exists. Last year one student did graduate 
without first having a baccalaureate degree 
and there is one such student enrolled in the 
program now. But the admission policy has 
changed since last year; no longer are non­
baccalaureates admitted.
Admission in the MPM program is a six 
step procedure. The candidates must first 
have a Bachelor's degree. Then they must 
write an essay explaining why they want to 
be in the program. Next, they must have 
three letters of reference, and they are 
required to give an interview. Finally, they 
must have five years of professional 
working experence. The candidates financial 
status, contrary to what the letters suggest, 
is not considered.
Both Bloomstein and Faulk feel that the 
problems could have been caused by the 
inclusion of nine "special students" in some 
of the MPM courses. These students are
continued on page 16
Crime and Incident Report
9/17 1:16 AM Student in
Hammerschlag House reported that 
someone entered and ransacked room, and 
stole a T.V.
9/17 9:05 AM "SATAN LIV" reported 
spray painted on new marble in front of 
Warner Hall.
9/18 12:07 AM A chair, rug, and clock 
were thrown out of a 3rd floor window 
of Phi Kappa Theta fraternity - struck 
and dented a van.
9/19 12:17 PM Stereo equalizer and 
radar detector stolen from vehicle parked 
behind Kappa Sigma fraternity.
9/20 12:21 AM Three males wearing 
Pitt jerseys kicked in basement lounge 
window in Tudor hall and then fled up 
Center Avenue.
9/20 10:13 PM INDECENT
ASSAULT: Several girls were walking 
through a crowd of high school aged 
black males. The girls were pushed, 
shoved, and touched indecently.
9/21 12:29 AM MUGGING: A male 
was attacked at the Mellon Institute 
loading dock (5th & Dithridge) by a 
group of 10-12 black males. The group 
surrounded him, beat him in the face, 
and took his wallet.
9/21 4:18 AM A resident of Spirit 
House was taking a shower and noticed a 
white male on the fire escape looking in. 
9/21 1:21 AM Two males were attacked
by a large group of black males at 5th 
Avenue and Murrey Hill. One of the 
victims ran. The other was knocked to 
the ground and his wallet was taken. 
9/22 6:55 AM Extensive damage done 
to 3rd floor Wean Hall bathroom.
9/22 between 8 and 11 PM: Bike
stolen from in front of Baker Hall.
9/26 8:50 PM Several males wearing 
ATO t-shirts were observed shooting off 
fire extinguisher in parking lot behind 
Donner, urinating in the field, and 
putting a toilet seat allegedly fromTri- 
Delt sorority on the south goalpost of 
the football field.
9/27 12:31 AM BURGLARY:
Unlocked student room in Morewood 
trashed, nothing taken.
9/27 2:03 AM Tree by the Fence spray 
painted by several students.
9/29 Modem stolen from Hunt library - 
valued around $1000.
9/30 9:30 PM ROBBERY: Black
male grabbed green army bag of student 
standing in front of Devon tower. Male 
fled up Devonshire Road.
10/1 6:30-9:30 PM Bike stolen from 
GSIA bike rack.
10/2 12:45 AM Several males observed 
throwing objects off D-tower Doherty 
apartments. One of the objects was a 
rock which struck a car at the 
intersection of Forbes and Beeler and 
shattered the windshield.
.. .IS’NT THAT 
JUST THE WAY! A 
NICE GUY LETS HIS 
rHAIR RUIN HIS LOOKS!! 
IF I RECOMMEND THE 
"HAIR CLUB"... 
WILL HE GET IT?
" 120"111$ 5,mamn
¿06 S.CRAIG ST. 62-1-HAIR
What if...
you could carry your own 
Professional Business Consultant
in your briefcase—NOW you can 
with the HP-18C calculator.
Elek-Tek 
Price $135
Order No. 420109 
Mfr. Sugg. Ret. $175
Uses Industry Standard Algebraic Operating System (Not RPN).
Features:
• Menu labels
• Soft keys
• Formula solver
Built-In functions:
Interest rate 
Payment schedules 
Statistics
Internal rate of return
Separate alpha and numeric keyboards 
Four-line LCD display
Infrared printer interface (printer available soon)
Markup and margin 
Interest rate conversions 
Time and appointments
Application books availableHEWLETT
PACKARD
I CALL TOLL FREE 800 621-1269 EXCEPT Illinois.Alaska. Hawaii
Accessories discounted too Mastercard or Visa by phone or mail Mail Cashier's Check, Money Ord . Pers Check (2 weeks to ck). Sorry no COO's Add •40* 1st item. •I0* each add'l-shpg & handl Shpts to IL address add 7% tax Prices subj to change University/College PO's welcome WRITE (no calls) tor free catalog 30 day return policy (or defective merchandise only ALL ELEK-TEK MERCHANDISE IS BRAND NEW 1st QUALITY AND COMPLETE
ELEK-TEKjnc
6557 North Lincoln Avenu*, Chicago, IL 50645 
(312) 677-7650

---------------------------------------------------

SORRENTO’S PIZZA
Atwood St. Across From Post Office
WE DELIVER FREE#621-9129
Thin Crust Pizza 
Thick Crust Pizza 
Calzones - Hoagies ~— 
Pizza Bagels
Dinners
Special: 
Large Pizza 
$4.50
Expresso and 
Cappucino Coffee
Carnegie - Mellon Gay and Lesbian Alliance P. O. Box 172, CMU Pittsburgh, PA 15213
GALA
CMU GALA is a student organization which tries to benefit the CMU community in 
two ways. First, GALA is a support and social group for lesbian and gay members 
of the campus community. Second, GALA offers programs to inform the campus 
of topics of concern to gays and lesbians, as well as die general public.
To meet the first goal, GALA has weekly meetings followed by a social hour. 
Meetings generally consist of an hour or so of discussion, with topics chosen to 
represent the interest of the members. Previous topics discussed include coming 
out to parents, coming out to oneself, relating to straight roommates and gay rights. 
The social hour offers a chance to take a break from studying.
To meet its second goal, that of informing the public, GALA schedules occasional 
films and speakers at meetings open to the general public. Last year, the movies 
The Times of Harvey Milk and Consenting Adult were shown. Speakers have 
given presentations on subjects such as gay history on campus and gay history in 
Pittsburgh. It is hoped that these programs provide a fuller view of the gay and 
lesbian community.
GALA welcomes all interested students, faculty, staff, and guests to its meetings. 
Membership is open to all, regardless of sexual orientation. For further 
information, contact GALA via campus mail or U.S. mail at the address above, or 
send Computer mail to GA0Y@TB.
Funded by the Student Activities Fee
Need A Ride Home For 
Thanksgiving? 
Not to Fear. A Phi O is here!!
A Phi O \^QOQC3
Thanksgiving Bus
(El Cheapo)
to
Harrisburg
and
Philadelphia
Details to follow in a later ad.
CMU
Computer Store
CMU Computer Store: UCC - A level
Phone: x2636 MM: PS00@TE 
For a current price list: Type HELP COMPUTER-STORE-PRICES on any TOPS
System.
Now Available!
SUN 3/52 WorkststionUniversity configuration includes:
15Mhz 68020 CPU 68881 Math Coprocessor 4Mb Memory Memory Management Unit Ethernet Interface SCSI Host Adapter 'Thin Ethernet” tranceiver on board Screen: 19" Monochrome 1152x900 71Mb Hard Disk 60Mb 1/4" Tape Cartridge Operating System: Berkeley Unix 4.2 Languages: Pascal, C, Fortran Over 600 Applications currently available
Price: $7700.00

---------------------------------------------------

Editorial
Keeping rape under wraps 
threatens students’ welfare
The officials of this University have been inexcusably 
remiss in their handling of the recent rape and indecent 
assaults on campus. These incidents were kept under wraps 
at the possible expense of other students' safety. Every 
reason presented so far for hiding the facts has been a 
scam.
The first possible reason for not making these events 
public is to protect the confidentiality of the victims' 
identity. This is certainly a valid concern, but protecting the 
victims and trying to prevent others from becoming victims 
are not mutually exclusive goals. Proper handling of such 
an issue would allow the University to protect the identity 
of individuals while still informing and alerting the rest of 
the campus to the potential danger.
The reason given by an official in the office of Student 
Affairs for not making the situation public is to avoid 
creating a panic. This pathetic attempt to explain away 
negligence as concern for our welfare is both insulting and 
twisted. First of all, what about the panic caused by 
exaggerated or even outrageous rumors like the ones that 
have been floating around this campus because no one 
really knew what had happened? Perhaps the best way to 
start a panic is to give people just a little information and let 
their imaginations do the rest. Furthermore, why shouldn't 
we panic a little? If panicking means being aware of or even 
afraid of potentially dangerous areas on campus, not 
walking alone at night and making sure that others don't, 
then let's hear it for panicking! Over-reacting is certainly 
preferable to and much safer than not reacting at all.
The final possible reason, and certainly the most 
horrifying to contemplate is that the University wanted to 
protect its public image. True, the occurrence of these 
incidents within the course of just a couple of weeks is not 
only frightening, but also damaging to the reputation of a 
University, and Carnegie Mellon is right to fear the 
irresponsible, sensationalist journalism of the local 
newspapers and TV stations, but none of these concerns 
should take precedence over the all-important concern of the 
safety of its students.
Campus Security should be commended for immediately 
adding foot and car patrols to areas where the assaults 
occurred. But other efforts to educate the campus have been 
inadequate at best. Simply posting some 8x11 sheets of 
white typing paper which say, "Be safe," and "Use the 
escort service," does not do the job. It is time for the 
administration to take this potential threat to student safety 
more seriously.
The opportunities to handle this situation promptly and 
effectively have already been lost through failure to release 
information to The Tartan, The Student Union, WRCT or 
any other medium for communication on campus, but 
hopefully in the future, the administration will think more 
carefully about the consequences and gravity of thier 
actions in such a situation.
Good idea: 65 mph and 
no more radar detectors
Ineffectual and rather ridiculous are the best ways to 
describe the current practice of setting a 55-mile per hour 
speed limit on the nation's highways, enforcing it with 
radar guns and then allowing people to purchase and use 
radar detectors in their cars.
Currently, legislators are facing a two-fold proposition 
regarding the speed limit on interstate highways. The first 
clause suggests raising the limit to 65 miles per hour, the 
second supports banning the use of radar detectors. If both 
clauses of this proposed legislation are left intact, it will be 
a useful and practical law.
Raising the speed limit is practical for two reasons. First, 
most people exceed 55 mph anyway, and sometimes with 
good reason. In large, western states, where highways are 
straight and flat for hundreds of miles, there is no reason to 
drive at only 55. In these areas the current limit is neither 
reasonable not enforceable, so why not give states the 
option to raise it? Secondly, the conditions which 
precipitated enactment of the 55 mph legislation in the first 
place are no longer relevant. The speed limit was lowered 
during the OPEC oil embargo which made fuel scarce and 
extremely expensive. Now that oil is more plentiful and less 
costly, the 55 limit is out-dated.
It is essential, however, that if the speed limit be raised, 
radar detectors be banned. Why should companies be 
permitted to make profit from products, exclusively 
designed for the purpose of breaking the law? There are 
many products which can be used for unlawful purposes, 
like cigarette paper, guns and citizen band radios, but all of 
these items have legitimate or at least legal uses as well. 
Radar detectors have no legitimate uses.
Combining these two propositions into one law, then, will 
result in a more realistic speed limit on interstates and a 
speed limit which can be more easily enforced by the 
police, since their radar guns will now be effective detectors 
of and deterrents to law-breakers, instead of just pieces of 
expensive equipment which has been rendered impotent by 
illegitimate products like radar detectors.
.irW
(POW\AiN
IfS. 1- rtorg HWT^ ttetps•
Letters:
Greeks say frats are not "Animal House”
Editor:
In last week's disturbing column 
Dry Rush Beats Freshman Lush 
several points were brought up that 
we feel should be addressed. Josh 
Ruben's main point seemed to say 
that the movie '"Animal House" 
painted a relatively accurate picture 
of frat life in general." 
Furthermore, Mr. Ruben invited 
anyone thinking otherwise to "go 
to a party this weekend and change 
your mind." This is simply not 
true. Yes, Fraternity parties often 
remind us of "Animal House." 
Carnegie Mellon students work 
hard and play even harder. Mr. 
Ruben failed to point out what 
happens during the other six and a 
half days that encompass a 
fraternity week. Unfortunately, The 
Tartan seems to agree with Mr. 
Ruben when they give major 
headlines to the occasional bad 
sides (such as alleged stabbings) of 
fraternity life while, at the same 
time, delegating the positive 
activities of the Greek system to 
the back page.
We would like to point out a few 
of the other things that we do. 
Fraternities afford their members 
the opportunity to form closer 
friendships with more people than 
they might otherwise. If we ever 
have a problem it is nice to know 
that there are sixty other brothers 
that we can turn to.
Fraternities are almost always 
involved in some sort of 
philanthrophic activity. For 
example, Sigma Alpha Epsilon 
recently held their annual Window Wash to benefit 
Children's Hospital. Every year 
Delta Upsilon helps maintain 
homes for disadvantaged children. 
Theta Xi sponsors the Miracle Mile annually. As a whole, the 
Fraternities and Sororities have an
event every March to raise money 
for charity called Greek Sing. And, 
if that were not enough, every 
Greek Organization was involved 
in last year's MS drive. An 
interesting question is whether 
CMU would have done as well in 
the drive without the help of the 
Greek System.
Mr. Ruben also noted that 
"Fraternities have a responsibility 
to keep the people at parties safe." 
From the outside, a party may 
look like there is not control at all. 
However, for the fraternity 
sponsoring the event, the controls 
are numerous. Everyone serving 
alcohol has been instructed to 
watch for inebriated people and not 
to serve them. It is a rare night 
when brothers do not escort 
drunken people back to their 
rooms. Door policies are very tight 
and strictly enforced. (Can you 
imagine what would have happened 
if the knife bearing crasher had 
been let into Delta Upsilon two 
weeks ago?) Every Delta Upsilon 
party has two brothers that 
voluntarily do not drink during the 
entire party to watch for and 
prevent potential problems from
occuring. The other fraternities all 
have similar systems, thereby 
indicating that the Greek System is 
fulfilling its responsibilities to 
keep its parties safe.
The Greek System provides much 
of the social life at Carnegie 
Mellon, with alcohol playing a 
part in this function. But there are 
numerous Greek functions that do 
not involve alcohol. Intramurals, 
Greek Sing, and charity events are 
a few of the things that we do that 
do not depend on alcohol for their 
success.
In conclusion, we invite Mr. 
Ruben to find out a little more 
about Fraternity Parties before he 
makes any more hasty judgements. 
Maybe he will find that everyone 
is drunk and making obscene 
passes at any attending females. 
Maybe, though, he will find what 
many others have found in the 
past: an inobtrusively monitored 
event with a lot of people having a 
fantastic time.
Evan McDonnell ME/EPP 88 Todd TomczykMEMS/English 88
Chairman criticizes cartoon
Editor:
Last week's Tartan editorial 
cartoon was an unfair general 
attack on Student Senate. A huge 
car with a license plate saying 
"Senate" was depicted as driving 
through a puddle and splashing 
water onto a "bag lady" carrying 
bags which symbolized student 
organizations and the campus. This 
is a cute drawing, but 
unfortunately it was not clear 
exactly what the point was. Some 
people thought that it was a
depiction of a person throwing 
gasoline (the bags) on a flaming 
fire (the water). In other words The 
Tartan didn't even succeed in my 
opinion in getting it's intended 
point cleary across.
However, after finding out the 
intended point of the cartoon, I am 
forced to repond to it. Its intention 
apparently was to attack one of 
Senate's standing committees, 
funding and recognition. However, 
the cartoon is so general that it continued on page 11

---------------------------------------------------

\ì
October 7,1986 - The Tartan - Page 11
Katz questions the value of the university system
By JAY KATZ
After years of accepting the American 
higher education system as a necessary part 
of learning, I just last year began to ask 
myself what the point of the system is.
—-----------------------_
imn..........................
Success in college, which may lead to a 
successful job, is based to a great extent on 
the ability to memorize all information for a 
course two days in advance of a midterm or 
final. So if you can leam all your material 
for your midterms, of course obliterating all 
knowledge from your memory banks after 
the exam, you probably will have a .better 
shot at good grades and a good future job 
than someone who may retain the knowledge 
but just has bad short term memorizing 
strategies. Does learning pay? It seems that 
memory techniques are more important in 
higher education than the actual learning.
Those who leam will be more knowledgable, 
but this may only mean that they will have 
something to think about as they wait in the 
unemployment line.
Is it really necessary to leam at a 
university? Is it the best system? I think a 
good deal of the information learned in 
college could be learned by an extensive and 
dedicated independent study in a public 
library. These "independent study" students 
could probably ask the librarian for some 
pointers every so often, take tests from the 
summary questions at the end of book 
chapters, and write their own papers.
Unfortunately, job opportunities for 
those who take this route may not be 
overwhelming. But I sure think that 
$10,000 a year could be saved with the same 
amount of knowledge learned by this group 
of people. The only possible advantages of 
higher education that I see in comparison to 
independent study is that it forces students to 
make a commitment to do structured work.
But if an individual is motivated and 
dedicated enough to leam, there is no 
problem with less structure.
Yet I know of few students at this school 
who are really motivated to leam; most are 
more concerned about surviving four years 
and then making enough money a year to fill 
five or more armored cars. That sure doesn't 
seem like what the purpose of a college 
education is.
As far as I am concerned, a college 
education does not guarantee or even indicate 
success in the real world. Human 
interaction, good personality traits, and 
popularity with peers can't be learned. For 
example, a manager can know every possible 
angle on how to maximize his workers and 
materials from his textbook learnings, but if 
he doesn’t know how to be liked by his 
workers or how to positively motivate his 
workers, his theoretical strategy will fail.
I've talked about how the individual can 
control his personal knowledge and skills.
Now, let’s see what the academic institution 
adds to the personal training.
As I briefly noted before, students are 
forcibly committed to fulfill certain work 
requirements when at a school. The student 
must follow the structure of the five 
syllabuses received on the first day of 
classes. Additionally, students get to 
complain about how much work they must 
do, how boring their teachers are, and how 
difficult their exams are. Students are 
permitted to push their physical systems to 
the limit by drinking gallons of caffeine- 
filled beverages so that they can finish their 
papers or study throughout the night. Of 
course, this academic system is based on 
giving students positive or negative feedback 
on their work and telling them how much 
they need to improve in every facet.
This instrument of higher learning sure 
doesn't seem like a useful system to me. It 
would be better if we all just met at the 
library.
Response to column points out misinformation about drugs
Editor:
Is Jack Poller really as naive as his 
strangulated rantings in The Tartan of 
September 30 suggest or does he possess 
some hidden agenda for which drugs are but a 
convenient smoke-screen? Wittingly or 
unwittingly, he is acting as a tool of those
totalitarians who would whip up drug 
hysteria to the point where, rising like the 
bleatings from a herd of sheep, demands for 
state action resulting in the suspension of 
individual civil liberties will appear as 
reasonable if this nation is to protect itself 
from the rampaging drug menace.
Denburg addresses reading days
Dr. Crecine:
The lack of reading days before finals is a 
problem. Students don't have a sufficient 
amount of time to prepare for finals and, as a 
result, this creates a very stressful situation.
A policy instituted by the University of 
more reading days would, not only improve 
students' mental health during finals but 
would also improve academic performance.
Last year a graduating senior in Industrial 
Management, Karen Kretzler—Mowry, 
researched this problem. She was very 
annoyed by the lack of reading days and thus 
proceeded to investigate other students' 
sentiments on the subject, as well as 
policies of other highly regarded universities. 
The results were most students wanted more 
reading days; 80 percent desired three or 
more. Furthermore, the universities she 
researched—Cornell, MIT, Swarthmore, 
Brown and Penn—had on the average two 
more reading days than Carnegie Mellon and 
five less class days.
From my research and from my discussions
with fellow students, I have gathered that 
this is a serious problem which needs to be 
dealt with soon.
As a member of the calendar committee, I 
plan to be an active proponent of more 
reading days at the meetings. However, 
anything that is decided at those meetings 
will not go into effect until the '87-88 
school year. Since something needs to be 
done now, I propose that for the spring 
semester of this school year, Friday, April
24 and Monday, April 27 be changed to 
reading days. As the calendar stands now, 
Tuesday, April 28 is the only reading day 
and that definitely does not provide students 
with enough time to prepare for finals.
I hope we can discuss this in the near 
future and I would appreciate your immediate 
attention of this matter.Jim Denburg President Student Government
Poller's mindless drivel is an insult to the 
intellectual character of the CMU 
community. To make flat-out assertions 
such as "LSD never leaves the body, so one 
is always under the influence" without 
substantiation is, at best, disingenuous. In 
fact, such a statement is an out and out lie. 
LSD-25, a synthetic derivative of ergot, is 
metabolized by the body and is no longer 
detectable twenty minutes after ingestion. 
That LSD even causes permanent changes in 
most certainly in dispute. In March of 1967 
a researcher at the State University of New 
York at Buffalo reported that LSD was 
observed to damage chromosomes in white 
blood cells in test tubes. Subsequent 
chromosome studies produced mixed results. 
Studies of children bom to LSD users found 
no increase in genetic horrors. What was 
never mentioned was that white cell 
chromosome damage is not a reliable 
indicator of overall genetic damage, that 
white cells so damaged continue to function 
normally, and finally, that such things as 
aspirin, x-rays, virus infections, orange juice 
and caffeine similarly damage white cell 
chromosomes.
What I think is really the crux of all this is 
that people, such as Jack Poller, quoting 
"facts" from tabloids instead of consulting 
research documented in scores of scholarly 
journals only confuse and obfuscate so that
The Tartan article of September 16 entitled 
"Democrats Hold Pgh. Reception" was not 
intended to offer an official position on the 
candidacy of Bob Edgar for U.S. Senate 
We apologize for any misunderstanding.
Cohen letter continued
continued from page 10
comes across as an attack on senate as a
whole.
Let me move on the the very unspecific 
point of the cartoon. First of all, though I 
don’t and can't speak for all of senate, senate 
like any large organization is nowhere near 
perfection. It is impossible for us to do 
exactly as we should in all situations. I agree 
that some complaints concerning funding 
and recognition may be legitimate and I am 
doing my best as chairman to correct them. 
But, let me stress that Funding and 
Recognition as a whole is doing a 
tremendous job. They are not only devoting 
a great deal of time per week to helping the 
I students by recognizing student clubs, but 
they have also put together and are currently 
refining a plan for dealing with the current 
reserve, as well as a contingency plan for 
dealing with any future reserves.
Another problem I personally have with 
the cartoon, is that it seems to hold all of 
senate responsible for how clubs are treated.
- This is an unfair generalization. Whenever a 
I student organization has come before the 
| entire senate on any given Tuesday night, 
i they have been treated with a high level of 
dignity and respect. While it is the job and
responsibility of senators to question 
members of the organizations about why 
they want to be recognized and/or funded, the 
senators do not act disrespectfully. The 
Tartan should have been clearer as to what 
they were attacking. Senate in general is 
very responsive to the desires and requests of 
student clubs. We are not "splashing water 
on them." All of senate's committees have 
good leaders, and are doing their best to serve 
the students. Leslie Frank's Campus Affairs, 
Nadine Flynn's Public Relations and Human 
Resources, and Eric Rocher's Academic 
Affairs have foremost in their committee's 
actions the student's best interests.
I respect and in some ways appreciate what 
The Tartan was trying to convey. In the 
future however, while not necessarily 
pointing names, be more specific. Criticism 
will help us. While I do not in any way or 
form officially represent Student Senate in 
my writings, I can say that as chairman I 
will do my best to insure that all interested 
students, as well as organizations, are treated 
fairly and given a high level of input.Peter Cohen Chairman, Student Senate
The Tartan is the official student newspaper 
of Carnegie Mellon University. It is a weekly 
newspaper, published each Tuesday during the fall 
and spring semesters by students at no cost to 
members of the university community. It is printed 
by Typecraft Press, Inc. Subscriptions are 
available for $15 per semester, $25 per year. The 
Editorial appearing at the beginning fo the 
opinion section is the official opinion of The 
Tartan editorial board. Columns are the opinions 
of individual authors who are not necessarily on 
The Tartan editorial board or staff. Letters to 
the Editor are opinions of individual authors who 
are usually members of the University community 
A letter intended for publication must be
no rational discussion on the problems of 
drug abuse may precede. Poller's blathering 
idiocy terrorizes those with little or no drug 
experience softening them up so that they 
will accept or even demand that the state take 
extreme measures inevitably resulting in the 
diminution of individual civil liberties. Drug 
abuse is a problem but not the one that 
people such as Poller would have us believe.
Finally, one must wonder why Poller failed 
to mention anything about alcohol and 
nicotine, the two drugs most widley abused 
in this community, indeed the entire nation, 
and which are, according to medical and civil 
authorities, major contributing factors in 
death and suffering. Aside from the fact that 
the United States has an insane 
drug policy which is blatently contradictory 
and filled with double standards, the issue of 
drugs is most certainly being used by 
Congress and the Administration to divert 
attention from deficits, trade imbalances, 
government sponsored terrorism and attacks 
on our liberties.Keith Kaufman Hunt Library
The Tartain
Olve Peersen
Lisa D. McAnany
Editor-in-ChiefAndrew RobitshekManaging EditorBusiness ManagerDrue MillerJoshua M. LevineBruce Kasrel
News EditorFeatures EditorEntertainment Editor
John FriedmannRuth MatsumuraAndrew Gillespie
Sports EditorPhoto Darkroom EditorPhoto Assignment Editor
Kurt ShawAlbrecht T. PowellCeleste Clark
Art EditorProduction ManagerAd Manager
John BabichKathryn A. SitterDave Levy
Dossier EditorTypesetting ManagerTartan AssistantVyay ReddyJack L. PollerNeil Greenblum
Contributing EditorContributing EditorContributing Editor
signed and include the writer's address and 
phone number for verification. Names will be 
withheld upon request. The Tartan reserves the 
right to condense or reject any letter or column. 
Copyright 1986 by The Tartan. The editorial 
board reserves the right to withhold from 
publication any copy it deems unfit for publication. 
Office: Skibo 50-52 (412) 268-2111 
Mailing address: The Tartan 
Box 17
Carnegie Mellon Univ. 
Pittsburgh, PA 15213
Funded in part by the Activities Fee. All rights 
reserved. Library of Congress ISSN #: 0890-3107.

---------------------------------------------------

CARNEGIE-MELLON UNIVERSITY
Final Examination Policy and Schedule
Office of the Registrar Fall 1986
1. All final exams shall be given in the final exam period;
2. The reading day and weekend preceding exams shall never be used forexam purposes of any kind;
3. Faculty shall not exert or submit to pressures to move an exam so that people can leave earlier.
4. No student shall be required to take more than two exams on a given finals day; the registrar shall assist the student in resolving conflicts;
5. No critiques or juries shall be scheduled on the last day of classes;
6. Papers shall be made due no later than on the last day of classes;
7. Take-home final exams shall be given for any 24-hour period of thestudent's choosing during the final exam period.
NOTE: COMPLAINTS ABOUT VIOLATIONS OF THE FINAL EXAMINATION POLICY ORALTERATIONS OF THE FINAL EXAMINATION SCHEDULE SHOULD BE DIRECTED TO THE APPROPRIATE DEPARTMENT HEAD.
BIOLOGICAL SCIENCES
03121MODERN BIOLOGYWEDDEC101:30-4:30PMPH100, WEH750003130BIOLOGY OF ORGANISMFRIDEC125:30-8:30PMWEH750003240CELL BIOLOGYMONDEC81:30-4:30PMBH255A03243EXP TCH GEN MOL BIOWEDDEC105:30-8:30PMDH120903331BIOCHEMISTRY IMONDEC151:30-4:30PMDH111203380VIROLOGYTUEDEC95:30-8:30PMSH42203438PHYSCL BIOCHEMISTRYTUEDEC91:30-4:30PMDH121703442MOL BIO EUKARYOTESTHUDEC118:30-11:30AMDH220003609FERMENTATN TCHNLGYMONDEC151:30-4:30PMDH210503731BIOCHEMISTRY IMONDEC151:30-4:30PM£«111203738PHYSCL BIOCHEMISTRYTUEDEC91:30-4:30PMDH12170Ì742MOL BIO EUKARYOTESTHUDEC118:30-11:30AMDH220003780VIROLOGYTUEDEC95:30-8:30PMSH422
CHEMICAL ENGINEERING
06151THERMODYNAMICSWEDDEC10. J.: 30-4:30PMDH1212062C4PROCESS THERMODYNAMTHUDEC118:30-11:30AMHH B10306301CHEN ENGR KINETICSWEDDEC101:30-4:30PMMM14
06313EXP COLLD SURF SCIMONDEC81:30-4:30PMDH210506606CMP NTH DES & ANALYTHUDEC115:30-8:30PMDHIII206703ADV FLUID DYNAMICSMONDEC81:30-4:30PMKl A31706706CMP NTH DBS Cl ANALYTHUDEC115:30-8:30PMDH111206713MATO TECH CHEM ENGRMONDEC88:30-11:30AMDH111206Í17FERMENTATN TCHNLGYMONDEC151:30-4:30PMDH2105
-CHEMISTRY
1 09103ATOMS MOL CHEM CHUGMONDEC81:30-4:30PMDH1112
09105MODERN CHEMISTRY ITUEDEC98:30-11:30AMDH2210,DH2315, WEH7500DH1212,DH111209107HONORS CHEMISTRYTHUDEC118:30-11:30AMSHI 2 5_09I17ORGANIC CHEMISTRY IFRIDEC121:30-4:30PMWEH7500-09218(»GAN CHEMISTRY IIWEDDEC108:30-11:30AMDH1112'"'09245PHYS CHEMISTRY ITUEDEC95:30-8:30PMWEH7500
09505POLYMER RHBOLOGYTHUDEC111:30-4:30PMDH220009745POLYMER RHBOLOGYTHUDEC111:30-4:30PMDH2200
CIVIL ENGINEERING
12110INTRO ENGR BCONTUEDEC91:30-4:30PMSH125
12207STATICSMONDEC81:30-4:30PMPH115
12241INTR CHPTR APP C ETHUDEC118:30-ll:30AMPH20
12320STRUCTURAL MECH ITUEDEC98:30-ll:30ANPH19A
12330FLUID MECHANICS IHONDEC88:30-11:30AMPH115
12623STRUCTURAL DESIGNNONDEC151:30-4:30PMPH19C
12627FOUNDATION ENGRTHUDEC111:30-4:30PMPH20
12636ENVR ENGR AIR POLLUTHUDEC118:30-ll:30AMPH19C
12637PRB ENGR PIK» EVALI!WEDDEC108:30-ll:30AMPH125C
12701AN NTVRK-BASED SYSTUEDEC98:30-ll:30AMPH126B
12704RELIABL RISK ANALYTUEDEC91:30-4:30PMBH235A
12720WATER RESOURCE CHENMONDEC85:30-8:30PMPH125B
12721GR WTR HYDRLGY CHEMMONDEC81:30-4:30PMPH126A
12771ANALY OF STRUC SYSTTUEDEC95:30—8:30PMUCC5206
COMPUTER SCIENCE
15117INTRO COMPUT LISPTHUDEC115:30-8:30PMWEH5201
15200SRV PRGMNG NTH APPLWEDDEC105:30-8:30PMDH1212
15211FUND STRUC CMP SC IWEDDEC105:30-8:30PMDH2210, 082315
15212FUND 8TRC C«P SC IIMOMDEC151:30-4:30PMPH100
15312PROG LANG DES PROCTHUDEC111:30-4:30PMWEH5427
15381ARTFL INT RP PR SLVTHUDEC115:30-8:30PMWEH7500
15384ROBOTIC MANIPULATEWEDDEC108:30-11:30AMWEH7500
15412OPERATING SYSTEMSWEDDEC105:30-8:30PMWEH7500
15413SOFTWARE ENGINBERNGTUEDEC91:30-4:30PMWEH5403
15462COMPUTER GRAPHICS¦ONDEC151:30-4:30PMSH125
ELECTRICAL AND COMPUTER ENGINEERING
18101LIN CIRCUIT ANALYTHUDEC111:30-4:30PMPH100, ADAMSON, PH125C
18133INTR TO DIGITAL SYSTUEDEC91:30-4:30PMDH2210
18201ELECTROHG FLD ANALYTHUDEC115:30-8:30PMPH100
18221AN DES ANALOG CIRCTUEDEC98:30-11:30AMPH100
18232APPL SOL ST PHYSICSTHUDEC111:30-4:30PMWEH5205
18247INTRO COMPUTER ARCHMONDEC81:30-4:30PMWEH7500,DH1212
18301FNDMNTLS OF CONTROLTHUDEC111:30-*:30PMHH B103,HH B131
18331SEHICNDCT DEV APP ITHUDEC118:30-11:30AMHH B131
18701ELECTRMG FLD THEORYMONDEC15l:30-4:30PHSH422
18705PHYSCS APPL MGNTISMWEDDEC101:30-4:30PMSH206
18721SEMICNDCT DEV APP ITHUDEC118:30-11:30AMHH B131
18767DIGITAL SIGNAL PROCWEDDEC101:30-4:30PMHH B103,HH B131
18853OPTICAL ELECTRONICSTHUDEC111:30-4:30PMDH2105
ENGINEERING AND PUBLIC POLICY
19319 LAW & THE ENGINEER MOM DEC 8 1:30-4:30PM PH2019404 TELBC TECH POL MGT MON DEC 15 1:30-4:30PM PH225C
MATHEMATICS
21105PRE-CALCULUSWEDDEC108:30-11:30AMDB1212
21111CALCULUS ITUEDEC95:30-8:30PMDH2210,DH2315
21112CALCULUS IITUEDEC98:30-11:30AMSH125
21121CALCULUS IWEDDEC108:30-11:30AMDH2210,ADAMSONDH2315, MM14, , PH225C
21122CALCULUS & .LIN ALGTHUDEC111:30-4:30PMWEH7500DH1112,, DH1212, SH125
21127DISCR MATH CHPTR SCFRIDEC128:30-11:30AMDH2210,DH2315
21257OPTMZTN SOC SCI ITHUDEC118:30-11:30AMDH2315,WEH7500
21258OPTMZTM SOC SCI IIFRIDEC128:30-11:30AMWEH7500
21259CALCULUS IN 3-DHONDEC151:30-4:30P8DH2315,WEH7500, DH1212
21260DIFFRENTL EQUATIONSTHUDEC115:30-8:30PMDH2210,DH2315
21293OPERATIONS RSCH IITUEDEC98:30-11:30AMSH422
21341LINEAR ALGEBRAMONDEC81:30-4:30PMMM103, PH125C, PH225C
21369NUMERICAL METHODSTHUDEC118:30-11:30AMPH125C,PH225C
21441NUMBER THEORYMOMDEC151:30-4:30PMWEH5403
21455ADVANCED CALCULUS IMOMDEC151:30-4:30PMI»1217
21457DIFFERENTL GEOMETRYMONDEC158:30-11:30AMWEHB423
21473ALGEBRAIC STRUCTMOMDEC88:30-11:30AMHH B103, HH B131
21483OPTIMIZATIONMONDEC85:30-8:30PMHH B103
21484APPL GRAPH THEORYWEDDEC101:30-4:30PMDH1112
21551MATHEMATCL LOGIC ITUEDEC98:30-ll:30AHPH125C,PH225C
21600MATHEHATCL LOGIC ITUBDEC98:30-11:30AMPH125C,PH225C
21622ANALY SEV VARIABLESTHUDEC11*8 :30-11:30AMDH1217
MECHANICAL ENGINEERING
24102STATICS DFRM SOLIDSWEDDEC108î30-11:30AHSH206
24112FLUID MECHANICSFRIDEC128:30-ll:30AMSH422
24121THERMODYNAMICS ITUEDEC95:30-8:30PMHH B103, HHB131
24141STATICS & DYNAMICSWEDDEC108:30-ll:30AHHH B103, HHB131
24213VISCOUS FLOWTUEDEC91:30-4:30PMSH422
24227INTRNL COMB ENGINESTHUDEC115:30-8:30PMSH220
24233HEAT TRANSFERHONDEC85:30-8:30PMSH224
24245DYNAHICS PHYSCL SYSNONDEC151:30-4:30PMHH B103, HHB131
24249DYNAMICS £ VIBRATNSTUEDEC98:30-ll:30AHSH206, SH224
24258NUMERICAL METHODSHONDEC81:3C-4:30PMHH B103, HHB131
METALLURGICAL ENGINEERINGANDHATERJALS SCIENCE
27131INTRO MATERIALS SCIA,BTUEDEC91:30-4:30PMWEH7500C,DTUEDEC91:30—4:30PMDH1212, HHB103
27211THERMODYNAMICS ITUEDEC95:30-8:30PMDH1112
27313THERMODYNAMICS IIMONDEC85:30-8:30PMHH B131
27331PHYSCL METALLURGY ITUEDEC98:30-ll:30AMDH A317
27529ADV CHEM METALLURGYTUEDEC91:30-4:30PNWEH6423
27531MTL ASP SMCND DEV IWEDDEC108:30-ll:30AMWEH642 3
27760MATH MDL PHYS PROCMONDEC81:30-4:30PMWEH6423
27779STRUCTURE OF MATLSMONDEC88:30-ll:30AMDH A317
27782PHASE TRNS SOLIDS ITHUDEC118:30-ll:30AMDH A317
27786DEFORM BEHAV MATLSWEDDEC101:30-4:30PMDH A317

---------------------------------------------------

PHYSICSENGLISH
33115 INTRODUCT PHYSICSA-DTUEDEC98:30-ll:30AMHH B103, HH B131ETUEDEC98:30-ll:30AMWEH542733121PHYSICS I MECHANICSMONDEC81:30-4:30PMDH2210, DH2315, PH100,MM14, ADAMSON, SH12533122PHYSICS II HT WV OPMONDEC85:30-8:30PMWEH750033123PHYSICS III EL MAGMONDEC85:30-8:30PMDH2210, DH1112, DH121233127PHYS III HNR EL MAGTUEDEC98:30-ll:30AMSH21233130PHYSCL MECHANICS IWEDDEC105:30-8:30PMDH111233435MODERN PHYSICS IITHUDEC111:30-4:30PMWEH540333437INTRMD ELEC & MAG IMEDDEC108:30-ll:30AMWEH540333441THERMODYNAMICSTUEDEC91:30-4:30PMWEH731633445MTHMTCL MTHDS PHYSTUEDEC98:30-ll:30AMWEH540333449ELECTRONICS IIMONDEC85:30-8:30PMDH A32533453INTERMEDIATE OPTICSMONDEC88:30-11:30AMWEH540333755QUANTUM MECHANICS IMONDEC88:30-ll:30AMWEH731633759INTRO THEO PHYS IWEDDEC105:30—8:30PMWEH731633765STATISTCL MECHANICSTHUDEC115:30-8:30PMWEH731633769QUANTUM MECHNCS IIIMONDEC81:30-4:30PMWEH731633779INTR NUC PRTCL PHYSWEDDEC105:30-8:30PMWEH842733783THEORY OF SOLIDS ITUEDEC91:30-4:30PMWEH8427
STATISTICS
36101STAT CNCPTS CMP APPTUEDEC95:30-8:30PMADAMSON36209PRB APP STA MG SS ITUEDEC91:30-4:30PMDH2315, PM100, DH111236211PRB APP ST PH S&E IFRIDEC125:30-8:30PMDH221036217PROB RANDOM PROCESSMONDEC88:30-ll:30AMADAMSON36225INTRO PROB 6 STAT ITUEDEC95:30-8:30PMPH10036309EX DES BEHA SOC SCITUEDEC95:30-8:30PMSH12536325PROB & MATH STAT IMONDEC85:30-8:30PMADAMSON36401ADV DATA ANALYSIS ITHUDEC115:30-8:30PMPH225C36708EXPERIMENTAL DESIGNMONDEC158:30-ll:30AMPH226B36739EX DES BEHA SOC SCITUEDEC95:30-8:30PMSH125
BIOMEDICAL ENGINEERING
42100INTR TO BIOMED ENGRTHUDEC118:30-11:30AMDH120942500PHYSIOLOGYTHUDEC115:30-8:30PMDH121242609FERMENTATN TCHNLGYMONDEC151:30-4:30PMDH210542677REHABILITATION ENGRWEDDEC105:30-8:30PMDH220042687SNS PR PER PSYCHOACTUEDEC95:30-8:30PMDH220042709FERMENTATN TCHNLGYMONDEC151:30-4:30PMDH210542735PHYSIOLOGYTHUDEC115:30-8:30PM'DH121242777REHABILITATION ENGRWEDDEC105:30-8:30PMDH220042787SNS PR PER PSYCHOACTUEDEC95:30-8:30PMDH2200
ARCHITECTURE
48100INTRO ARCHITECTUREMONDEC158:30-11:30AMDH130048141COMPUTER MODELINGTHUDEC118s30-11:30AMMM14, MM10348160BASIC CNCPTS IN ARCTHUDEC115:30-8:30PMHL SEMINAR ROOM48321EQUIPMENT FOR BLDGMONDEC88:30-11:30AMCFA20448324ADVANCED STRUCTURESTHUDEC111:30-4:30PMBH237B48364GREAT 20TH C HOUSESTUEDEC95:30-8:30PMHL SEMINAR ROOM48386AMER NEIGHBORHOODSTUEDEC98:30-11:30AMDH4307
57100HARMONY FOR NON-MJR
MUSIC«
MON DEC85:30-8:30PMMM12757101SOLFEGE FOR NON-MJRWEDDEC101:30-2:30PMMM12757103HIST OF MUS NON-MJRMONDEC151:30-4:30PMCFA16057123THEORYWEDDEC105:30-8:30PMHM11957125SNDS STRUC WRLD CULTHUDEC115:30-8:30PMCFA16057152HARMONY IITUEDEC98:30-11:30AMCFA16057175SOLFEGE MUS THEA IWEDDEC102:30-3:30PMMM12757177SOLFEGE MUS THE IIITHUDEC118:30-11:30AMMM12757204HISTRY OF MUSIC IIITUEDEC95:30-8:30PMCFA16057223THEORYNONDEC88:30-11:30AMMM1275725516TH CEN COUNTERPNTTUEDEC98:30-11:30AMCFA15757257ORCHESTRATIONMONDEC81:30-4:30PMCFA15757332INTRO TO CONDUCTINGTHUDEC118:30-11:30AMACH57347ELCTR & CMPT MUS IMONDEC158:30-11:30AMCFA15757376SECONDARY METHODSMONDEC151:30-4:30PMMM11657810MUSIC OF F SCHUBERTMONDEp151:30-4:30PMHLLR
HSSS INTERDISCIPLINARY PROGRAM
66205 NTN EMP EU WRLD ORD TUE DEC 9 8:30-11:30AM ADAMSON66214 AGE OF THE BAROQUE FRI DEC 12 8:30-11:30AM PH225C
INDUSTRIAL ADMINISTRATION
70121FINANC ACCOUNTINGFRIDEC121:30-4:30PMDH221070150FNDMNTLS INSURANCETHUDEC115:30-8:30PMBH131B70311ORGNZTN BEHAVIOR IBWEDDEC108:30-ll:30AMSH125C,DWEDDEC108:30-11:30AMPH10070332GOVRNMNT & BUSINESSTHUDEC118:30-ll:30ANPH10070335BUSINESS AND LABORMONDEC85:30-8:30PMPH125C70363LAW MDRN AMER SOCAWEDDEC105:30-8:30PMHH B103BWEDDEC105:30-8:30PMHH B13170371PRODUCTION ITUEDEC95:30-8:30PNPH126C70381MARKETING IA,BTHUDEC111:30-4:30PMMM103, MM1470422COST ACCOUNTINGMONDEC151:30-4:30PMDH221070440STRATEGIC MANAGEMNTMONDEC81:30-4:30PMBH235B70451MGMNT INFORMATN SYSMONDEC85:30-8:3ÖPMPH225C70471PRODUCTION IITUEDEC95:30-8:30PNPH2170491FINANCE IIWEDDEC105:30-8:30PMSH125
ECONONICS
73100PRINC OF ECONOMICSA-HMONDEC158:30-ll:30AMDH2210,1X12315
I-MNONDEC158:30-ll:30AMPH100
73250INTERMED MICROECONAMONDEC158:30-ll:30AMHH B103
BNONDEC158:30-11:30AMHH B131
C,DNONDEC158:30-ll:30AMMM103
73300INTERMED MACRECONNONDEC158:30-ll:30AMWEH7500, DH1212
73345INDUS £ LABOR RELWEDDEC101:30-4:30PNPH125C
73359BENEFIT-COST ANALYTUEDEC95:30-8:30PNPH20
73360ECONOMETRICSATUEDEC91:30-4:30PMPH19C
B,CTUEDEC91:30-4:30PMADAMSON, PH125C
73365INDUSTRL ORGANIZATNFRIDEC121:30-4:30PMPH125C
73370INTERNATL ECONOMICSTUEDEC95:30-8:30PMMM14
73420MONETAR THEO POLICYWEDDEC101:30-4:30PMBH235A
76220THE MODERN NOVELFRIDEC121:30-4:30PMBH255A76230BBLCL MYTH BKGR LITFRIDEC128:30-11:30AMADAMSON76241DISCOURSE HST CHNGWEDDEC105:30-8:30PMADAMSON76242RDG 20TH-C CULTURETHUDEC115:30-8:30PMBH235A76244SHAKESPEAREFRIDEC121:30-4:30PMADAMSON76245SHAKESPEAREMONDEC85:30-8:30PMBH255A76250SUBJECT OF NEW WRLDMONDEC85:30-8:30PMBH231A76321WORKING CLASS LITWEDDEC108:30-11:30AMBH255A76341SHAKESPEARES CNTMPMONDEC85:30-8:30PMPH107A76371RHETOR SOC INTERACTMONDEC81:30-4:30PMPH107B76391PRESCRPT LINGUISTCSMONDEC85:30-8:30PMBH231B76408THEORIES OF READINGWEDDEC101:30-4:30PMPH126B76432CNTMP FR FEMINISMTUEDEC98: 30-11:30AMBH131B76771RHETOR SOC INTERACTMONDEC81:30-4:30PMPH107B76791PRESCRPT LINGUISTCSMONDEC85:30-8:30PMBH231B76808THEORIES OF READINGWEDDEC101:30-4:30PMPH126B
HISTORY
79102 SHAPING WSTRN CIV
AMONDEC88:30-11:30AMPH125BBMONDEC88:30-11:30AMPH225CC,DMONDEC88:30-11:30AMWEH750079103AMERICAN CIVILIZATNAFRIDEC125:30-8:30PMMM310BFRIDEC125:30-8:30PMSH20679104INTRO TO WORLD HISTWEDDEC101:30-4:30PMDH2210, DH231579120DEV OF AMER SOCIETYTHUDEC111:30-4:30PMDH2210, DH231579207HISTORY OF AFRICATUEDEC91:30-4:30PMBH254A79212HSTRY MDRN SCIENCEMONDEC15l:30-*4 :30PMMM1479215DYN EUROPE SOCIETYMONDEC151:30-4:30PMBH255A79226TCHNLGY WSTRN CIVFRIDEC128:30-11:30AMPH126B79250INTRO APPL HISTORYTUEDEC91:30-4:30PMPH126C79308REC AMER FOR POLWEDDEC108:30-11:30AMBH231B79310AMERICAN PRESIDENCYMONDEC158:30-11:30AMBH231B79315HIST PITTSBURGH REGMONDEC81:30-4:30PMBH254A79320AFRO-AMERICAN HSTRYMONDEC81:30-4:30PMPH125B79338GAUCH IND LAT AMERTHUDEC115:30-8:30PMBH231A79340HSTRY OF COMPUTINGMONDEC158:30-11:30AMBH254A79343HISTORY OF IRELANDMONDEC81:30-4:30PMBH131A79367EUROPE INTL AFFAIRSWEDDEC105:30-8:30PMPH125B79370MDRN RUSSIAN HSTRYFRIDEC128:30-11:30AMPH125C79375MN THEME JEWISH HSTMONDEC88:30-11:30AMBH237B79820INTRO APPL HISTORYTUEDEC91:30-4:30PMPH126C
PHILOSOPHY
80100 PHILOS MTH & MORALSAWEDDEC105:30-8:30PMPH 100
BWEDDEC105:30-8:30PMPH226B
CWEDDEC105:30-8:30PMPH125C
DWEDDEC105:30-8:30PMPH225B
EWEDDEC105:30-8:30PMPH225C
80210INTRO TOLOGICMONDEC88:30-11:30AMPH126B
80261THEOR OFPAINTINGMONDEC151:30-4:30PMPH125C
80280INTRO TO LING ANALYNONDEC85:30-8:30PMPH126B
80310LOGIC CONPUTBLTY ITHUDEC115:30-8:30PMBH231B
80360ADVANCEDAESTHETICSWEDDEC105:30-8:30PMBH237B
MODERN LANGUAGE PROGRAM
82101ELEMENTARY FRENCHMONDEC151:30-4:30PMBH235A82103PROGRAMMED FRENCHFRIDEC125:30-8:30PMDH231582121ELEMENTARY GERMANFRIDEC125:30-8:30PMPH10082123PROGRAMMED GERMANMONDEC158:30—11:30AMPH225C82141ELEMENTARY SPANISHMONDEC158:30—11:30AMPH226C82161ELEMENTARY ITALIANMONDEC81:30-4:30PMPH225B82171ELEMENTARY JAPANESEFRIDEC128:30-ll:30AMPH226B82201INT FRENCH CULT SOCMONDEC81:30-4:30PMPH2182203INTERMEDIATE FRENCHFRIDEC125:30-8:30PMDH231582221INTERMEDIATE GERMANFRIDEC125:30-8:30PMPHI 0082241INT SPAN CUL 6 SOCMONDEC85:30-8:30PMPH226C82261INTERNED ITALIANNONDEC81:30-4:30PMPM225B82271INTERMED JAPANESEWEDDEC108:30-ll:30AMBH235B82301FRENCH CONVER COMPAWEDDEC108:30-ll:30AMBH237BBWEDDEC108:30-ll:30AMPH126A82321GERMAN CONVER COMPMONDEC85:30-8:30PMBH237B82415STD FR 18TH C LITMONDEC85:30-8:30PMPH226B82435GERM DRAMA NAT EXPRMONDEC88:30-ll:30AMPH226C82455ST SPAN LAT AM LITWEDDEC108:30-11:30AMPH125B
PSYCHOLOGY
85100COG PROC THEO PRACTHUDEC118:30-ll:30AMDH2210,
85211COGNTV PSYCHOLOGYFRIDEC125:30-8:30PMPH125C
85213INFO PR PSY ART INTFRIDEC121:30-4:30PMPHI 00
85221PRINC CHILD DVLPMNTFRIDEC128:30-ll:30AMPH21
85261ABNORMAL PSYCHOLOGYTUEDEC91:30-4:30PMHH B131
85281INTRO CLINICAL PSYMONDEC81:30-4:30PMBH340A
85310RSCH MTHDS COG PSYWEDDEC108:30-11:30AMBH340A
85320RSCH MTHD CHILD DEVTHUDEC111:30-4:30PMSH346E
85340RSCH MTHDS SOC PSYTUEDEC91:30-4:30PMBH336B
85393HUMAN FACTORSWEDDEC101:30-4:30PMPH225C
85411COG PROC PROB SOLVTHUDEC115:30-8:30PMADAMSON
85711COG PROC PROB SOLVTHUDEC115:30-8:30PMADAMSON
85713INFO PR PSY ART INTFRIDEC121:30-4:30PMPH 100
SOCIAL AND DECISION SCIENCES
88102DEC PR AM POL INSTMONDEC88:30-11:30AMDH2210,DH2315
88200INFORMATION SYST IWEDDEC101:30-4:30PNADAMSON
88220POLICY ANALYSIS IMOMDEC85:30-8:30PMDH2315
88240EMPIRCL RSCH METH ITUEDEC95:30-8:30PMDM1212,PH125C
88260ORGANIZATIONSTHUDEC118:30-11:30AMADAMSON
88323LEGISLATIVE PROCESSWEDDEC10It 30-4:30PMBH237B
88342MKT ORG BUS BEHAVTHUDEC115:30-8:30PMPH126B
88367COMPTRS IN ORGNZTNSTHUDEC115:30-8:30PNPH226C
UNIVERSITY CORE PROGRAM 
99200 PATTERNS & DESIGNS NON DEC 15 8:30-ll:30AN PH125C

---------------------------------------------------

FAST FREE DELIVERY
CALI FOR FREE DELIVERY 12 NOON TO 12 MIDNIGH
comm vMCQttcns
We’ve just taken what’s already a terrific discount available to you on your college campus and made it even better. On the only complete soft ware for the Apple® Macintosh™ personal computer. Fill out the coupon below and send it along with your dated store receipt, completed Jazz® registration card and the bar code label from the bottom of the Jazz package to:Lotus Development Corporation, P.O. Box 3006, Cambridge, MA 02139.
.? Student 
.? Faculty 
.? Staff
Address.
Lotus Jazz
Fite function software for the Apple Macintosh integrating spreadsheet, graphics, word processing, database and communications.This offer applies to students, faculty and staff purchasing with personal funds. Institutional purchases do not apply. Offer expires December 31,1986. Mailings which do not include the four items listed above will not be honored: No facsimiles accepted. Allow 6-8 weeks delivery
/A' our dough mode FRESH doily
810 IVY STREET • SHADYSIDE
682-3333 ,
FREE DELIVERY TO:
• Shady side • Pt. Breeze •
• Sq. Hill • Oakland • n
• Friendship Park • U
• Bloomfield •
• Highlond Pari<
FREE WALK-IN TUTORING 
Each Week
Sunday through Thursday — 7pm -10pm
FREE DELIVERY ¦ — — — — — —
COUPON
Large Cheese Pizza
-Calculus 
(Pre, I, H, ID)
Physics
Chemistry
-Academic Writing Problems 
-Financial Accounting 
-Economics 
-Intro. To Computing
PH 125B 
PH 226B 
PH226C 
WeH 5415
Study Techniques Seminar #2:
A peer study counselor will present: 
Making the most of your study time. 
Saturday, October 11 — 1 lam-Noon -Skibo 12
-Sponsored by Counseling and Student Development Center 
Division of Student Affairs
I
I
I
I
I
I
$3.99 
Free liter of coke
(All sandwiches come with rr.elted provolone cheese and are OVEN-BAKED)
Italian Hoagie...........4.00V2 Hoagie................................2.00Hot Sausage.............3.90Meat Ball...................3.90Cheese Hoagie.........3.20Steak Hoagie.............4.20
Pizza Steak Hoagie__4.20Cold Sub................................. 4.00
Capicolla (Deluxe)___...............4.70
(Real Italian Capicolla with Green
Peppers, Mushrooms & thet Special Touch)
(All topped with fresh lettuce, tome to. onion — unless specified) 
(Green Peppers or Mushrooms — 25* Extra)

---------------------------------------------------

Note: Some accounts may be slightly fictitious, in whole or in part, for dramatic puposes only.
The Portriats of Success
Locker 1-20 in the 
Basement of Porter
WFrank
ffwMikerr
The corr idor was silent, they were totaly alone. But Mike kept his 
mind clear. He knew that if he could just last a little longer victory 
would be theirs. Supplies dwindled, almost half a bag of Dorito's gone. The warm soda felt like acid on his parched lips. 4-1-4, 4-1-5 ... The digits seemed to mock his pathetic efforts. His fingers trembled 
with each turn of the dial. But just as he felt himself begining to snap, 
a tiny vibration came from deep within the casing of the lock. With one swift downward jerk, the lock burst open. He slowly opened the 
locker, carfull not to disturb its sacred contents. A beam of fluorecent blue sliced through the stale air like a fresh razor. He stood, 
breathless, gazing upon the tre asure.
Clue Number Onei
William Sydney and Katherine were related.
How were they related?
This lock was all that stood between our heros and the money. 
At first glance, the situation seemed hopeless, over 13,824 different combinations! But Frank 
was not easily set back, he wanted 
that $100, and he wanted it bad. 
Just then he rembered a formula he had learned back in high school and thought he never use. A quick 
calculation revealed that it would only take 3.84 hours to try all the 
combinations. $26.04 an hour, 
not bad for two kids without even 
a college education (yet).
Portal Vp5rt-i, *p6rt-\ Charles Frederick Algernon 1893-1971 1st 
Viscount Portal of Hungerfonl Brit, air marshal 
Por*tar ypdrt-or, *port-\ Cole Albert 1*91-1964 Ant, composer &
David 1780-1843 & his son David Dixon 1813-1*91 Am. 
naval officers
Portftr Gene 1868-1924 n6e Stmtton Am. nov.
Portar Sir Georg? 1920- Brit. chem.
Portar Katherine Anne 1890- Am. writer 
Portar Noah 1811-1892 Am. philos. ft lexicographer 
Porta* Rodney Robert 1917- Brit, btochem.
Portar William Sydney 1862-1910 pseud. O. Hendry 
Am. short-story writer 
Portland Duke of — see bentinck
Poat Vp0st\ Emily 18737-1960 n6c Price Am. columnist ft writer 
PO’tanvkin \p^Hy6m(p)4taifc p6-tem(p)*\ Grigori Al«*iaadra*ch 
1739-I7W Russ.field marshal*atatanaa
Clue Number Two-
They left Vicksburg, bound for Jackson.
How did they getthere?
Contest, and all related articles, by Joshua M. Levine, Tartan Features Editor.

---------------------------------------------------

Page 16—The Tartan—October 7,1986
Silly Question: The Second Coming
Silly Question of da week, volume 2: What 
do you think of the design/layout of Skibo?
Kim, a research assistant and '84 graduate', 
"Well, the set-up is difficult (getting up and 
down the stairs to go to Kiltie). But I think 
Scotland Yard is reeaall cute."
Curtis, freshman chemistry major and 
Tartan Grill employee; "Uh, it looks nice, I 
suppose. I wish they’d change the name. 
It's stoopid. Grey Matter is stoopid. They 
oughta change the name to 'Fecal Matter' 
because I don't like it. "
Arnold, freshman IM ; "I like Skibo. 
The Tartan is very good, considering it's in a 
college atmosphere (editor's note: he means 
the grill, of course.) I like the plants, and the 
lights look cool from up on the balcony. 
Even the salad bar adds something."
Nat, chem e. grad student; "Skibo? It's 
horrible. Tear it down. Build a casino or 
something ...to go with the Morewood 
Gardens Parking Lot Hotel."
Rick, freshman math/cs; " Looks to me 
like someone pissed all over the walls. The 
grey matter strikes me as a 
little bit odd - some people seem to live 
there and accumulate a, shall we say, stench 
over time. I think we should put them in 
an airtight room...and supply them with 
clean clothes and a shave. Men and women.
And what's with the lights in the Tartan? It 
looks like K-Mart had a sale on lamps, and 
they bought a gross. Y'know, from the 
balcony they look like cysts, or boils or 
something."
Grant, sophomore civ e and resident stud ; 
" 60's architecture really sucks. I mean, 
Skibo is a castle in Scotland, right? WHAT- 
THE-HELL did
Concept by Drue Miller 
E’ustration by Debbie Kirscbtel 
Birds curtesey of J Matthew Birds, he
when they built this? Look, it's an 'H'. 
Instead of a student union they gave us an
'Hr
Snugglebuns, a junior mech e who 
didn't want his real name to be used ; " The 
Greenhouse effect is the problem - it's about 
6 million degrees in there. All that 
glass...it's iust like a greenhouse. The R-
aI’m so depressed. It was my brother’s birthday last night and 1 was in charge of making the cake.“Well, I made the cake, a great big triple-fudge layer cake and before it even got a chance to cool, 1 ate the whole thing plus an entire can of fudge- swirl icing. I ate the Very Vanilla ice-cream, too, a gallon of it.“Of course, I felt bad about the cake, but it’s no big deal about the calories. I just made myself barf the whole thing up."The party was awful.. .one of our family’s famous get-togethers, and of course I ate like a pig, so I had to make myself throw up again. I took a handful of laxatives, too. Its funny. My familv
hasn’t the faintest idea how I can eat so much and not gain weight.“I hate these stupid get-togethers. How can I feel like such an outsider in my own family?”—Betsy, 22, bulimia victim Betsy is not alone. She is one of an estimated 500,000 young women in the U.S. suffering from the eating disorder known as bulimia.This binge/purge addiction is a vicious cycle that wreaks havoc on the victim’s teeth, kidneys
and intestines as well as the bulimic’s personal and professional life. Sometimes, the cycle ends in death from heart failure or a ruptured stomach.At The Medical Center, we’ve developed a comprehensive program to meet the special needs of patients with eating disorders. Through our Tri-State Eating Disorders Center, we’ve helped both patients and their families understand and cope with these problems.For confidential information, call toll free 1-800-622-2832 in Pennsylvania; 1-800-782-2832 outside Pennsylvania. Professionals are available to answer your questions 24 hours a day.Don’t let an eating disorder consume your life.
Tri-State Eating Disorders Center 
At The Medical CenterBeam, he.1000 Dutch Ridge Road/Beaver, Pennsylvania 15009
Grant; "I think a total renovation is in 
order - make it into something else."
Snugglebuns; "I think a wrecking ball 
would do the job. A nuclear war would 
probably work too. ( Ed. note: Snugglebuns 
is into this because he's afraid he won't get 
job offers from anyone except the DoD; we 
at The Tartan in no way adhere to this 
policy and recognize him for the 
capitalist/swine/warmonger he is.) Wait, 
let's expand the grey matter. Sure, we could 
cover the cut with grey carperting-"
Grant; "-and manure-"
Snugglebuns; "-and sprinklers going 24 
hours a day..."
Pablo, sophomore artist; 
"ungahungahungah...it's putrid. I don't know 
why anyone would make a building with so 
much glass in Pittsburgh, because there's 
nothing to look at."
Jess?, stuck-up WASP d—k; " They put 
too much stuff in it. It's the wrong size for 
a school this size. If I had to change 
something, I'd put moonwalks around the 
Grey Matter."
Mary, sophomore GCM; " It's like all f— 
-d up; what can you do with it?"
Pablo; "I think the only thing they could 
do at this point is shift Skibo on a 14-degree 
angle..."Alum Makes It Big
Edward Feigenbaum's work at 
Stanford University began the application of 
artificial intelligence to practical problems, 
moving the computer world into the "fifth 
generation." The first four generations were 
based on hardware—the vacuum tube, 
transistor, integrated circuit, and very large 
scale integrated circuit. The fifth generation 
is defined by function—the computer with 
artificial intelligence (AI) that reasons with 
knowledge.
Bom in 1936 in Weehawken, New 
Jersey, Feigenbaum's brilliance in the field 
of computers first surfaced at Carnegie 
Mellon University, where he earned a B.S. 
in electrical engineering and a Ph.D. in 
industrial administration in 1960.
A Fulbright scholarship took 
Feigenbaum to England. He returned to a 
professorship at U.C. Berkeley and then 
moved to Stanford when he was twenty-nine. 
At Stanford he worked with Nobel laureate 
Joshua Lederberg and Bruce Buchanan to 
create the Heuristic Programming Project, a 
laboratory that does basic research on expert 
system programs to perform complex 
reasoning tasks at levels equalling or 
exceeding human competence. Feigenbaum 
has helped to found two startup companies, 
Teknowledge and IntelliCorp. He foresees 
intelligent computers as amplifiers of our 
own intelligence and beileves "they will 
profoundly affect our businesses and 
professions, our institutions and our 
governments, our science, our schools, and 
our personal daily lives."
Feigenbaum is consumed by his 
work, devoting his life to the discovery of 
knowledge that he says "is power, and 
computers that amplify that knowledge will 
amplify every dimension of power."________
SUP A Letter: Continued
continued from page 8
mostly non-degree CMU employees who are 
not enrolled in the program; they are simply 
taking some of the courses.
Because the letters were anonymous, 
neither Bloonstein nor Faulk have been able 
to contact its authors. They strongly urge 
the students to either step forward and 
discuss the issues further or anonymously 
show more evidence of course retardation 
caused by either the special students or the 
non-baccalaureate student.
The MPM students contacted by this 
reporter were aware of no problems or 
complaints.

---------------------------------------------------

October 7,1986—The Tartan—Page 17
Sponsored by Student Alumni Relations Council
Powder PuffFootball
Special Half time Guests
The Carnegie Mellon Football Players 
Mr. and Miss Varsity Candidates
6:30 pm Friday on the IM Field
Free Refreshments ’Cali Karen x4830
f Girls ! j Come play !l
\pall Karen x4830 C
Thumpin' 'Theo and Uiis ¿Aiùjhty Seven Orchestra
TUTOR NEEDED
Financial Accounting
7 to 10 pm Wednesday
WALK-IN TUTORING
$3.50 Per Hour 
Please Call Dr. Hickey x2922
Dear Theo,
I like it best when people are asleep 
because then I can do anything I want. What 
do you think of that?
Hoot Owl
Dear Bird,
So do I! I find it to my advantage to kiss 
people while they're asleep because I don't 
get in as much trouble then. Perhaps you 
should take to wandering the coma section of 
the intensive care ward in the middle of the 
light See you soon.
TheoDear Theo,
What about all those sailors who eat every 
weekend in the Kiltie Cafe? I mean, I go up 
to the line to get my scrambled eggs and 
hash, and when I come back, Popeye's 
sitting at my table! I feel like going up to 
him and slapping that com cob pipe right 
outta his mouth! I mean who do they think 
they are? They come in here and eat our
powdered eggs, scarf all our Bavarian 
doughnuts, drink all our flat pop, and they 
don’t even have to pay! When will this 
madness end?
PO’d Pirate
Dear Peed,
As you can see, I did a little sailing myself 
this summer. That’s me in Havana Harbor. 
Sailors are neat. Sailors are cool. If you 
don't think so, you're a fool.
Captain Theo Queeg
Dear Theo,
I'm afraid I’m going to be kicked out of 
college. All my life, my parents have been 
telling me how important it is that I get a 
good education. Now I feel like I'm going to 
let them down. They'll kill me if I fail out. 
My QPA is miserable. Now I'll never get to 
be an engineer.
Scared to Death
Dear Fraidy Cat,
Why so uptight? An engineer? Why would 
you want to drive trains anyway? Believe 
you me, engineering is becoming an extinct 
profession. In this age of Concords, 
monorails and canned tuna, you’d be left by 
the side of the tracks, while technology sped 
on. I don’t understand why you're so worried 
about college. I didn't go to college and look 
at me. My mother's damn proud. Anyway, 
let me know how things work out I care.
Theo
If you have any questions or comments; if 
you have any threatening life problems and 
just don’t know what to do, just Ask Theo. 
Write in care of the Features Editor of the 
Tartan, Room 53, Skibo. Theo will be more 
than happy to answer your letter. Note: 
Theo’s opinions do not necessarily represent 
those of the Tartann or any of its corprorate 
affiliates, nor do most people even accept 
them as valid.
r»ear Teo,
Hep me! Hep me! I bin hyp-mo-tized! De 
ndda week, I got me hyp-mo-tized, an’ now I : , knows how olds I is, I don’ knows hoos 
nHs I don’ even knows my name. Why, last 
eek I even found myself wandering around 
^king for people who did not exist. Pease
hep me Teo. Tanks.
I don’ know
Dear Question Mark,
Don't fret buddy. Not having a name isn't 
so bad. In fact it's great. Now you can 
change your name to anything you want. 
Something snazzy, like Theo perhaps, 
hmm? Or Orville, or Bruce, or Herb, or 
Nancy. By the way, what do you mean 
"hep"? What the hell does that mean?
Theo

---------------------------------------------------

WKCTFall ilQISi6 Schedule
Funded by Student Activities Fee Request lines: 268-2883 or 621-WRCT88.3 FM Stereo Pittsburgh 5020 Forbes Ave. Pittsburgh, PA 15213
SUNDAYMONDAYTUESDAYWEDNESDAYTHURSDAYFRIDAYSATURDAY
12AM
1AM
2AM
3AM
4AM
5AM
6AM
7AM
8AM
9AM 
10 AM 
11AM
12PM
1PM
2PM
3PM
4PM
5PM
6PM
7PM
8PM
9PM
10PM
11PM
Lalit
Rap, Rock, 
Reggae
The Anti-Christ 
Show w/ Rosa 
& Sam 
Rock
Bendy, But Firm 
w/ Don 
Rock, Electronic, 
Jazz
Red Asphalt w/ 
e. Coli 
The hotter, 
the harder, 
the recent
All Parts of the 
Spectrum 
w/ Sean 
Rock, Acoustic, 
Jazz, Popular 
Experimental
Derek's Club w/ 
Mr. Glich 
Electronic, 
almost evil
Flight of the 
Emu w/
Dr. Tielovich 
Electronic, 
Space,
Experimental
Feeling the Blues 
w/John 
Blues, Zydeco, 
Cajun
Anything & 
Everything 
w/ Ron 
Anything you, 
the audience, 
want
Kiltie Surprise w/ 
Flash
European Rock, 
Reggae
The WRCT 
Top 30 
w/ The Count
Metal Show w/ 
Trash
Heavy Metal
Brian & FrankStew'd Jazz w/ 
Stew 
Jazz
GrahamCooperative 
Anarchy 
w/ Vadim 
Experimental, 
Electronic, 
Reggae, Local
Sonic Structure 
w/ Dr. Bob 
Progressive bits 
of everything
HotLicks w/ Ax 
Manic
Guitar: Metal, 
Rock, Blues, 
Jazz
Mystery DJAudible 
Ampethamines 
w/ Simon 
Hardcore, Gothic
Doubts Even Here 
w/ Dan
Rock, Dance, Pop
Terror of the 
Blimp w/ 
Sacco Vanzetti 
Jazz
Movements That 
Touch the Y 
w/ Spectre 
Psych, New & 
Old Wave, 
Reggae, Jazz
REL w/ Greg 
Jazz, Exper., 
Neuroprgessive, 
MUTANT
Music Incognito 
w/ Rich 
Funk, Rap, 
Hip-Hop
Radical Pagan 
Music w/ Ovid 
Experimental, 
Jazz, Reggae, 
Hardcore, 
Electronic
Sobriety with a 
Sense of Humor 
w/ Smedly 
A little of 
everything
The Well w/ One 
of the Last of 
the Mohicans 
Music that goes 
against the 
grain
Melodius Thunk's 
Jazz-o-Rama 
Jazz
Steve
The Little Dickie 
Show
Mad Mixin’ w/ 
The Inspector 
Funk, Dance, Rap
Lisa Byrd-Smith 
Jazz: Classical, 
Fusion, Cool, 
Big-Band
Funk Dungeon w/ 
Mary
Dance, Funk, 
Death, & Drone
My Deformed 
Cousin w/ 
Jerry & Clara 
Post-Punk Pop 
Rock
Upper Nairobe w/ 
Pablo 
Alternative Rock, 
Industrial, Funk, 
Experimental
Beer in Your Ear 
w/ Bill 
Troublesome 
Rock with 
Roll and Blues
Turn & Bum 
Baby w/
Stinky, Tracy, 
and Delia D. 
Rap, Funk, Soul, 
Disco
Nothing To Be 
Afraid Of w/ 
John Doe 
Rock, 
Experimental, 
and Stuff
Minimal Evils 
w / Stormin’ 
Norman 
Gothic, Dirge, 
Factory & 
Altera. Dance
Chocolate Box 
Mentality w/ 
The Queen of 
Radio Porn. 
Pop, New Wave, 
Altera. Rock
Sports line
Modern Reggae 
w/ Rayro 
Reggae, Ska, 
African
Green Eggs & 
Spam
w/ Sam I Am 
Recent 
Independent, 
Difficult Music
Research w/ 
Scott Hawkins 
Garage, Psych, 
Dance
101 Dead 
Dalmatians w/ 
Mike Usually 
A variety of 
modern music
The Rhythm of 
the Beat w/ Les 
R&B, Funk, Jazz
The Wild Hunt w/ 
The Vindicator 
& Fetko 
Hardcore, Ex per., 
Classical, 
Batmusic
Bloated Floating 
Pajamas 
Industrial, 
sometimes Rock
Unsightly & 
Serene w/ Clare 
Neuroprpgrcssive 
& Hyperdelic
The Certified 
Mice Show w/ 
Jesse
Odd, Obscure, 
and Forgotten 
Music
Glandular 
Perspectives 
Spermblast w/ 
Ralph & Lenny 
Pus, Hardcore
Slam Train 
w/ J.P. & Otto 
Hardcore
Observations 
from a Distance 
w/ Phil Antares 
Space, Mellow

---------------------------------------------------

October 7, 1986—The Tartan—Page 19
A Look at Carnegie Mellon Intramurals
Touch Football
Commissioners.
Major League—Paul Pecora, 621-9124 
Intermediate League—Vic Banko, X5403 
Minor League—Vince Carozza, X5494 
Women's League—Dee Nyzio.
please check IM Bulletin Board for game 
schedule changes and make up games due to 
rain Any games that need to be made up 
must be done through Mike in the IM Office 
(Room 101, Gym), or call him at X2214 
between 4:00 p.m. and 5:30 p.m.
We still only have six teams in the Major 
Touch Football League.
Tennis
Commissioner: Rob Schlackman, X5518. 
Schedules and standings are on IM Bulletin 
Board. Please report scores of you matches 
to IM Office. Rained out matches will be 
played October 8 and 9 and playoff matches 
will be played after October 9.
Golf
Commissioner: Paul Pecora, 621-9124. 
Results of the 1986 E.J. Birdy Open Golf
Tournament:
present Varsity Volleyball team members 
can play Intramural Six Person Volleyball..
Soccer
Commisioners: Minor League—Mike 
Grzwinski, X4651; we need more 
commissioners for soccer.
Final entry date is Thursday, October 16, 
4:30 p.m. Games will start as soon as the 
Intramural Touch Football playoffs are 
completed.
Chess
Commissioner: Stuart Fox, X4259.
Last call for IM Chess. Matches will start 
October 7 and all first round matches must 
be played by October 15. Please turn your 
match scores in to Commissioner Fox or the 
IM Office.
Cross-Country
Commissioner: Paul Pecora, 621-9124. 
Cross-Country Meet—Thursday, October 
9, 4:30 p.m.—Flagstaff Hill across from 
Porter Hall. Everyone is welcome to run the 
1.9 mile course. Special heats will be run 
for women only and faculty and staff. You 
can run as part of a five person team or an
individual. Be there!
Water Polo
Commissioner: Hal Levine, X4077. 
Schedules are out and can be picked up in 
the IM Office. Matches start Monday, 
October 6 at 9:15 and 10:00 p.m. The pool 
lifeguard for all water polo matches will be 
Gregg Garrison. All game equipment will be 
in the pool area.
Darts
Commissioner: Paul Pecora, 621-9124. 
Entry due Thursday, October 16. Sign your 
team up today!
Old Business
The IM fields are still in bad shape. 
President Paul Pecora will talk to some 
administrators pertaining to having the 
playing fields improved for Intramural 
games.
New Business
Consider adding new sports—Bridge, 
Cribbage, and Foosball. Next IM Meeting: 
Thursday, October 16, 12:30 p.m. in the 
Gym Conference Room.
1986 Co-Rec Volleyball Standings
MinorsSpike Division Won Lost
1. AFROTC40
2. Megs32
3. The Punched Spikes32
4. DU22
5. More wood Maniacs22
6. Bunch-O-Ball Players13
7. Dudes & Dudesses04
Net DivisionWonLost
1. PiLam40
2. Henderson Bruisers30
3. Commando32
4. Slammers22
Tartan Sports Staff Meeting
Tuesday, 8 p.m, 
in the Tartan Office
New Writers Welcome
Team Champions 
1st Place DU—333 
2nd Place PiLam—343 
3rd Place Sigma Nu—345 
4th Place Theta Xi
Individual Champions 
1st Place Vic Banko (DU)—70 
2nd Place Bob Button (PiLam)—72 
3rd Place Walt Barie (Sigma Nu)—73
Nice job, Commissioner Pecora.
Co-Rec Volleyball
Commissioner: Kevin Neel, X4616.
Standings are posted on IM Bulletin Board. 
Please check IM Bulletin Board for playoff 
schedule. Some changes were presented to 
the IM Board, however, no changes will be 
made in the Co-Rec rules this year.
Bowling
Commissioner: Vince Carozza, X5494.
Final entry date for bowling will be 
Thursday, October 16 at 4:30 p.m. Matches ? 
will begin at Strand Lanes on Saturday, 
October 25. All teams must pay half of their 
bowling fee when they roll their first game. 
The cost per line will be one dollar.
Racquetball
Commissioner: Rob Schlackman, X5518. 
Final entry date Thursday, October 16 at 
4:30 p.m. Games will begin October 20. 
Please check IM Bulletin Board for match
schedules.
Team Table Tennis
Commissioner: Bob Koca, X8989.
Schedules will be out next week. Please 
play all matches on time and turn in 
winning scores to IM Office.
Six-Person Volleyball
Entry due October 16 by 4:30 p.m. Teams 
can sign up for practice games from October 
13 through 16 on the IM Bulletin Board. 
Matches will begin Monday, October 20. No
f«r
Korftr tp»*»ri *« I*»(SI C
ESI —H iì Wurf
X UÍ71
En* Msh h» * far 
J»iwit «t
ttw ESI Ofrt*r, n4Vn
AVOID 
THE NOID
CALL
DOMINO'S PIZZA
Meet the NOID™ He loves to ruin your pizza. He makes your pizza cold, or late, or he squashes your pizza box so the cheese gets stuck to the top.
With one call to Domino’s Pizza, you can avoid the NOID. So when you want hot, delicious, quality pizza delivered in less than 30 minutes, One call does it all!®
$1.00
$1.00 off any size pizza. I One Coupon per pizza Expires: 10/19/86
Fast, Free Delivery'*
Good at locations 
listed.
Call us! 681-1700315 N. Craig St.
521-2970623 Greenfield Ave.
We use only 100% real 
dairy cheese I
Our drivers carry less than $20.00.
Limited delivery area.
©1986 Oommo's Pizza, Inc.
DOMINO’SPIZZADELIVERS*FREE.

---------------------------------------------------

Carnegie Mellon 
2nd Annual 
Home Comming 
5k Race
Uitrí
October 18,1986 
9:00 A.M.
Registration Forms 
are Available at 
Skibo Information Desk 
or 5017 Forbes
$5 Entry Fee
OCTOBER1986
MONTUEWED
1
8
FRI
Salads Plus
SAT
Wh\lkW
mmma,
11
SUN
wwk
J=l IH
jmmsL
14151617
WWWHOMECOMING
2021
27
SleepingBaggers
28
22
29
2526
SleepingBaggers
on Fright 30 Night
u I/1*1®'* Hal owejoween Dinner
rJi, i Halloween Lunch* Morewood Gardens
- w»*. t -
Dining Service

---------------------------------------------------

October 7,1986—The Tartan—Page 21
By John Friedmann
Tartan Sports Editor
It was another successful week for the 
Carnegie Mellon cross country team, as both 
the men's and women's groups earned 
victories Saturday over Hiram College in 
Cleveland, Ohio.
For the men, Carnegie Mellon freshman 
Dave Supp led all meet runners and keynoted 
19-44 triumph. Hiram senior Mark 
Sheerin, who captured the 10,000 meter run 
in track competition last year, finished 
second. But Sheerin was the only Hiram 
runner in the upper echelon of finshers, as 
Tartan speedsters captured the third through 
twelfth slots.
Coach Gary Meckley noted that "the whole 
team was tired. I worked them real hard the 
last two weeks."
The Lady Tartan runners were equally 
victorious, elevating their dual meet record 
6-0 with a 22-37 triumph. It was also a 
Carnegie Mellon freshman, Sue Johnson, 
who took first in women's meet with a time
Women’s 
Results
CMU 22 Hiram 37
1. S. Johnson
2. T. Pane
3. Green
4. F. Crannell
5. O'Donnell
6. Furry
7. M. Stempkowski
8. D. Kwong
9. M. Moritz
10. M. Lacroce
11. T. Pickering
12. M Reisinger
13. T. Huan
14. D. Huan
15. R. Goff
of 17:36. It was her first finish at the top of the pack this season. Also running well was Theresa Pane, who placed second and recorded her season-best finish.Poor conditions plagued the Tartans at Hiram. The weather was wet and rainy, and the running trails were slippery and mud-
By Perry Pierce
Tartan StaffwriterThe Carnegie Mellon Field Hockey team evened up their 1986 record to 4-4 with a big 1-0 win this week over Washington and Jefferson College. The Tartans though, are 1- 2 in Presidents Athletic Conference play thus far in 1986. The Lady Tartans have been struggling offensively as of late, but are beginning to tune up their game as they get set to take on the better PAC teams in the coming weeks.Lisa VanderMeer led the charge for the Lady Tartans against Washington and Jefferson, as she scored the only goal of the game, with an assist from Kim Ciulla. The Tartan defense was the key in the game, as they allowed only 1 shot on goal from a
covered due in part to earlier high school meets. Despite the poor trails, Coach Maxwell noted her tracksters ran an "excellent race."Coming up, both teams will travel to the Fairmont State Invitational next Saturday. Men's coach Meckley indicated that the meet
strong Washington and Jefferson offense. Lady Tartan coach Jan McDowell cited the play of her defense, especially Dee Nyzio, Debbie Lustig, and Sheila Bomberger. "They [the defense] played a very good game," explained McDowell, "but the offense has been having lots of trouble converting plays." McDowell also said that the Tartans will need to convert more often if they plan to see PAC playoff action.The Lady Tartans will be taking on Hiram this week, in a must win situation for Carnegie Mellon. "We have to beat Bethany and Hiram to make the playoffs," said McDowell. The Tartans know that they will also need other PAC teams to beat Hiram and Bethany for Carnegie Mellon to see post­season play in 1986.
would be an indicator ot his team's strength. "If we are rested and ready to go, [the meet] is a pretty good indication of where we are at" The University of Pittsburgh and Frostburg State are expected to be among Carnegie Mellon's chief competitors at the meet.
Field Hockey Climbs to .500
The Tartan
Sports
Section...
Filled with 
Information
PICKUP 
A PARTY
17:36 (CMU) 17:54 (CMU)* 18:04 (H) 18:25 (CMU) 19:30 (H)19:33 (H)19:53 (CMU)* 20:05 (CMU) 20:25 (CMU)* 21:3321:44 (CMU)* 22:19 (CMU)* 22:26 (H) 22:34 (H) 32:34(CMU)
Hiram Falls Under CMU Runners' Attack
Aititi*
a «
Netter s
Fall
By Stewart Levine
Tartan StaffwriterThe women's volleyball team continued its disappointing season Wednesday night. Carnegie Mellon lost to PAC rival Washington and Jefferson 1-3, dropping the team's record to 2-9.Head Coach Joan Fisk was resigned but upbeat after the match. "We should've had a very strong team this year. Now we have a new, learning team instead of an experienced one. They played a lot better, but made enough errors at the wrong time to let them [W&J] win. We covered the hitters better, the defense better, and blocked better, but we didn't have as strong an attack."A major factor in the decline of the Lady Tartans has been the loss of second team All- PAC player Chris Coleman, who left the squad earlier this season. According to Coach Fisk, "A number of the games we lost this season since losing her we could have won. We could have beaten everyone except Thiel and maybe Geneva."The burden of leadership has now passed to Monica Zalevsky, who, according to Coach Fisk, "is doing a good job with Diane Watson in helping morale. We were in good spirits going to W&J, but when you're not experienced, you don't always stay in the game to win it."
THIS BUD'S 
FOR YOU.
BUDWEISERfrrfONG Of «eEI*S#WkNMCUSC» «USCH INC .ST LOUIS

---------------------------------------------------

Page 22—The Tartan—October 7, 1986
Defense Characterizes John Carroll Battle
Continued from Page 24
looked hesitant when it came to 
passing,especially in option situations. In 
Garofola's defense, it was his first colleg 
starting assignment, and he should improve 
with time and experience.
But the offense struggled for three 
quarters, especially having trouble with 
crucial third down conversions. With 
Garofola calling signals, the Tartans 
penetrated inside the JCU 30 yard line only 
ogee.
Seeking to shake up his attack, offensive 
coordinator Rich Erdelyi inserted junior 
Chris Claflin at quarterback, Claflin's first 
experience in a situation where the game 
was on the line.
"A lot of times when a team doesn't 
score, it’s just psycology. A new face out 
there at the quarterback position 
...sometimes it helps. I didn't do anything 
special," noted Claflin.
While Claflin passed only once, a six-yard 
drop to Roy Teresky, Carnegie Mellon 
scored all its points wiih him at the helm.
The first scoring drive was the usual 
CMU running drive, with a pair of big runs 
by Mike Minjock and a 10 yard ramble by 
fullback Chris Hansen for the touchdown.
Hansen was the Tartans' most prolific 
runner on the afternoon, gaining 85 yards 
on 14 carries. Ironically, he would not have 
seen as much action had not first-stringer 
Anthony Collaros been sidelined with an 
injury in the first half.
Jim Kelly's thirty three yard field goal 
with 6:31 left in the game gave Carnegie 
Mellon its final three points.
While the defense was impressive in 
crucial situations, they allowed the Blue 
Streaks to penetrate deep into Carnegie
Mellon territory numerous times.
Carnegie Mellon safety Rob Arthur 
defused the first JCU drive with an 
interception in the end zone, while on their 
second posession John Carroll took 
advantage of a botched punt and rolled to 
the Tech 15 yard line before they failed to 
convert a crucial fourth down into a first 
down.
The Blue Streaks almost took the lead 
before halftime. They drove down to the 
Tartan thirteen yard line, but a Dan 
Shannon 30 yard field goal attempt was no
good.
Notes- Carnegie Mellon has won the last 
four in a row versus the Blue streaks. Three 
of those victories were shutouts ... An 
unknown member of the campus com­
munity added the traditional "U" to the CM 
on the Tech field hillside..For the first time 
this season, Carnegie Mellon had three 
runners with sixty yards or over: Tim 
Denmeade, Chris Hansen, and Mike 
Minjock...Both head coaches, Carnegie 
Mellon's Rich Lackner and John Carroll's 
Frank Amato are graduates of, and played 
football at, their respective institutions. 
They never faced each other on the gridiron, 
though.
Next Week- The Tartans face the second 
of their three most formidable opponents of 
the year next week, Hiram College. [Case 
Reserve and W&J are the other two] The 
Terriers boast a potent offense, keynoted by 
QB Rob Devorsky, 13th nationally in 
passing, pass catcher Greg Gorcica, 4th in 
Division III receiving, and RB Bobby 
Starks, the leading rusher in the PAC last 
year.
Hiram is 2-0-1 so far in this season. The 
tie came versus Case Western Reserve
University in the first contest of the year. 
Case defeated the Tartans the next week, 21- 
14. After deadlocking with Case, the 
Terriers knocked off Bethany and Grove 
City Colleges.
Suprisingly, Hiram has received excellent I 
play from the self-dubbed "No-Name" 1 
defense. The No-Namers have been 1 
surrendering big yardages, but holding 
opponents to low point totals.
Photo by Andy GillespieDE Mike Brennan pushes JCU’s Tom Curtis back for a loss of 4 yards.
F=Krp/wSATUftPAV
tAOÑ PAVByJErtV
TV
m+tr

---------------------------------------------------

October 7, 1986—The Tartan—Page 23
CMU
Computer Store
CMU Computer Store: UCC - A levelPhone: x2636 MM: PS00@TE For a current price list: Type HELP COMPUTER-STORE-PRICES on any TOPSSystem.
IBM PC Convertible
Features:•256k user memory (expandable to 512k) •Two 720k 3 1/2” diskette drives •Adjustable liquid crystal display
System Price: $1360.00
Options:Convertible Printer $237.00Serial/Parallel Adapter 157.00rotiExt. Monochrome Display 144.00Ext Display Adapter 261.00Internal 1200b Modem 360.00128k Memory Expansion 157.00
Next Tartan Soccer 
Home Game
October 15, 3:30 p 
Versus Mt. Union College
Attention!
Faculty—Staff—Students
It's
-Buggy-
Time!
—Fall Freerolls will begin this Sunday, October 12 
from 6:00am to 9:00pm. Freerolls will also be held 
on October 19,25,26, and November 2. Those 
practices will take place in Schenley Park on Tech 
and Frew Streets. Traffic will be restricted during 
this time.
Hensel
Continued from Page 24
Through all of this uncertainty, Mike has 
been a good sport, showing what a good 
person he is. Mike demonstrates his 
dedication by saying, "Missing one game 
would be better than missing six. Our team 
goal this year is to gel to the playoffs; we’d 
like to go all the way this time."
SID Bruce Gerson stated that Hensel is the 
best QB ever at CMU. Mike has been 
playing ever since he was 6 years old, 
playing halfback until his switchover to QB 
his sophomore year in high school. 
Freshman year, Hensel's first game, with 
just 10 seconds left in the game, he sprinted 
93 yards for a touchdown. Hensel was hurt 
the next time he played and out the rest of 
the season.
Sophomore year, Hensel split time with 
senior David Zito; completing 43 of 99 
passes for 728 yards, scoring 5 TD's.
During Hensel's junior year, his abilities 
shined throughout the season. He completed 
89 out of 154 passes for 1,499 yards 
totalling 12 TD's. He ran the ball 89 times 
for 320 yards, 7 TD’s were scored. Honors h( 
received are: PAC Offensive MVP, 1985 
First-team All PAC, 1985; Fifth best QB ii 
NCAA Division III, 1985; Second-team A1 
District, 1985; 29 career TD's, 17 passing 
and 12 rushing.
After playing football from such a younj 
age and being so gifted in the game, mam 
are wishing Mike Hensel a quck recovery am 
future sucess.
Tartan Soccer Scores Victories
Photo by Andy GillespieCarnegie Mellon captian Ned O'Brien displays his fancy footwork
Continued from Page 24
foiling the few scoring chances Yongstown 
could muster. Anderson stole the show 
offensively, converting three scoring 
opportunitites. Two of these were set up on 
nice crossing passes from Mayr, an 
influential team leader whose intensive play 
is just beginning to pay off in the scoring 
column.
"(Mayr) provides the team with an added 
didmension, he's simply all over the field," 
remarked Gaudioso, who has coached Mayr 
for two very successful years. "As a forward, 
his defesive abilities are exceptional. He's 
very physical, more powerful than polished, 
and he doesn't allow himself to get frustrated 
when the end result doesn't necessarily reflect 
his hard work."
The team begins its grueling journey 
through the PAC in Grove City next 
Saturday at 10:30, and from what he has 
seen, Faudioso can't help but become 
optimistic. "If we can play like we did 
against Geneva and stay healthy, we can play 
with anyone. This is considered a building 
year form us, and we keep getting stronger 
with every game."

---------------------------------------------------

Will Hensel 
Return?
By MELISSA PECK
Tartan Staffwriter
This past Monday, following the 
Duquesne victory, Mike Hensel #10 of 
the Tartans, was named "Player of the 
Week." During the Duquesne game, with 
merely 3 minutes left in the game, Hensel 
fractured his seventh vertebra and suffered 
a concussion. Head Coach Rich Lackner 
recalled, " That was one powerful hit, 
probably the hardest hit ever at CMU." 
Hensel stated, "I’m not in pain, it just 
feels like a bruise at the back of my 
neck." Unfortunately, the injury was more 
serious than that; at press time no one 
was sure when and if he’ll return to the 
Tartans.
A 6'2", 179 lb. senior, CMU's "Man 
from Mars" smacked head-on with Gary 
Eiben, Duquesne's defensive back, 
striving for yardage at the visitor’s 6 yard 
line.
On Saturday, Hensel's doctors, Paul 
Nelson and Oliver Smith, diagnosed his 
injury as a consussion. Sunday they called 
Hensel saying that they needed more X- 
rays. These X-rays confirmed a defi *e 
fracture, saying that he would need a ne* . 
brace for 6 weeks. But the two doctors got 
together with the team orthopedic 
surgeon, Grant Johnstone; they then 
determined it was a safe fracture so he 
would not need the brace. They said that 
Mike’s chance of receiving a hit that could 
cause paralysis was no greater than 
anyone else’s, because of the direction of 
the fracture. He returned Sunday the fifth 
for final X-rays. He had a catscan done, 
and if these tests (¿onfirm that he's a no­
threat (that the fracture is stable), Hensel 
will be playing at Hiram. If it comes out 
that he is a high-risk case (more prone to 
paralysis if hit), he will not be returning.
Continued on Page 24 ___________________
The Scoreboard
Football
Carnegie Mellon 10 
John Carroll U.O
Soccer
Carnegie Mellon 3 
Geneva College 0
Carnegie Mellon 3 
Youngstown State 0
Men's Cross Country 
Carnegie Mellon 19 
Hiram 44
Women's Cross Country 
Carnegie Mellon 27
Women ’s Field Hockey 
Carnegie Mellon 1 
W&J 0
Women1s Volleyball 
W&J 3
Carnegie Melloni
Booters Defeat Geneva, Youngstown
By PAUL MASALSKY
Tartan Staffwriter
With a competive President's Athletic 
Conference schedule fast approaching, the 
Carnegie Mellon soccer team gained some 
valuable momentum in the past week, 
posting two convincing victories over non­
league opponents.
In a rain-soaked, mud-slicked game 
against pesky Geneva College on 
Wednesday, freshman George Fennell 
scored two goals to propel the Tartans to a 
hard-fought, 3-1 win.
On Saturday, an all-around defensive effort 
and three goals from Doug Anderson were 
keys in a 3-0 blanking of host Youngstown 
State University.
These successful efforts did not come 
without the usual casualties, however, 
Junior midfielder Kevin Jung, a two-time 
All-PAC pick and possibly the team's best 
player, suffered a hip pointer, limiting his 
quickness and ball handling ability. 
Although he was able to play against 
Youngstown State, his perfomance was 
noticeably effected by the injury.
Coach Nick Gaudioso is aware of what a 
healthy Jung can mean to his team in terms 
of leadership and all-around strength.
"Hopefully Kevin will be aready to play 
by Tuesday (a road contest against Marietta
College)," said Gaudioso. "We know he's a 
great asset to the team, and every game he 
doesn’t play also hurts his chances to 
become an All-American, an honor I know 
he can achieve this year."
Gaudioso saw the Geneva game as "one of 
the best games we've played thus far. We 
played an excellent team, and we were just 
'better mudders.' We won every head ball 
and played more aggressively, and when we 
take the lead early, it's very difficult to 
come back and beat us."
Junior Alan Mayr added a beautiful goal 
to Finnell's two tallies, redirecting a long 
shot to the opposite post past a helpless 
Geneva goaltender. Carnegie Mellon 
coasted on the strength of a 2-0 halftime 
bulge with goalie Reid Thiel "constantly in 
control even when (Geneva) scored," 
according to Gaudioso.
On Saturday, the Tartans took on 
Youngstown State team currently in the 
beginning stages of its development. 
Knowing that Youngstown was undergoing 
some coaching changes and was weak in 
personnel, Gaudioso was worried his team 
wouldn't be in the right frame of mind for 
the game.
"We seem to play much better against the 
belter teams because we get geared up 
mentally," he commented. "The game 
against Youngstown helped us to gain
experience on artifical turf, but although we 
won the game, we did’t play as well as we 
should have."
State
V
Sophomore Scott Lyon was always in the 
right place at the right time defensively,
Continued on Page 23
Tartan Sports
Tartans Gain Rainy Triumph Over JCU
By JOHN FRIEDMANN
Tartan Sports Editor
The Carnegie Mellon defense recorded its 
first shutout of the year last Saturday 
versus John Carroll University, a time 
when the Tartans needed it most.
For three quarters, the defense bent under 
the pressure of the John Carroll 1 
Streaks, but refused to break while 
Tartan offense strugged to get points on the 
board. When provided with a lead to 
protect, the Plaid Curtain stiffened further.
"The most impressive defensive series 
this year," in the words of Coach 
Lackner, came late in the fourth quarter 
during monsoon-like rains, with CMU 
leading 10-0.
After Mike Minjock fumbled the rain- 
soaked football only two yards 
the goal line, it looked like John 
would move to within three points of the 
Tartans. But the defensive line, backed up 
against their own goal, ate up Blue Streak 
tailbacks Chris Ambrosio and Tom Curtis 
on four consecutive off-tackle runs, 
yielding only a yard in the series.
Lackner summarized the situation. "They 
were backed up against a wall, there was 
nowhere to go, they sucked it up, 
low, and they outhit John Carroll when it 
counted."
Bill Cramer, shifted from the offense to 
defensive end in August, played a superb 
game and was intrumental in fustrating 
several Blue Streak drives.
On the offensive side, the picture was 
different than last week. For the first time 
since the fall of 1984, the Tartans did not 
have quarterback Mike Hensel at their 
disposal. With Mike injured, Dean 
Garofola, a freshman out of Greensburg 
Salem High School, got the starting nod as 
the Carnegie Mellon signal caller.
Garofola didn’t collapse in his first
starting assignment. He completed six of
eight passes for 44 yards, and was
intercepted once. But the Tartans were
scoreless under his leadership, and had
trouble converting third downs. He also 
Continued on Page 22
Photos by Andy GillespieChris Hansen scrambles in for the only touchdown of the game

---------------------------------------------------

What’s new on the tube?
Entertainment 
Comics 
Classifieds 
Events
ALF- NBC. Alf is a beer-drinking, cat- 
I eating alien stranded on Earth when his
home planet, Melmac, blows up. He moves
in with a typical sit-com family with 
I precocious children and bumbling parents. 
The neighbor described him in the premier as 
a cross between an aardvark and a 
kangaroo." Actually he's more of a cross
L between Don Rickies and Fozzie the Bear.
I This is absolutely the dumbest concept NBCI
* has produced since Mr. Smith was laughed 
off the air.
My Sister Sam- CBS. Rebecca Schaeffer 
is Patty, an annoyingly bubbly teenager who 
comes to live with her stuffed-shirt, stick in 
the mud sister (Pam Dawber). She does 
everything the writers conceived possible to 
annoy her older sister; borrows her clothes, 
i moves her things, hogs the bathroom, all of 
j those bothersome teenaged things. It's cute 
for the first ten minutes or so, but after a 
while it turns into a strong desire to change 
the channel.
Designing Women - CBS. Four women 
I get together in a decorating business in 
I Atlanta, and go from one mid-life crisis to 
1 the next. The women are very different: one 
I is a tramp, one an intelligent feminist, one 
is the quiet homemaker type and the fourth 
is somewhere close to normal. This is a 
good concept that with a little more effort
Sledge Hammer- ABC. Frankly, I don't 
know what all the fuss was about. David 
Rasche is Sledge Hammer, a trigger-happy 
cop who talks to his gun and "makes Rambo 
look like Pee Wee Herman." The show is 
nearly all slapstick; there are few lines that 
are funny without the pratfalls that 
accompany them. It could be funnier, but 
will never be intelligent. It is an incredible 
simulation of the short-lived Last Precinct 
(which was an incredible simulation of the 
movie "Police Academy"), only this is 
more violent.
Sidekicks - ABC. This one is sure to be a 
hit with the kids: Karate is back in style
among grade-schoolers and there's nothing 
else on but Dallas and Miami Vice. Ernie 
Reyes, Jr. is a karate champ who falls under 
the guardianship of Gil Gerard, and what do 
they do? Why, they fight crime, of course. 
As long as mothers across America are 
boycotting Vice, this show stands a chance, 
but it has nothing to do with its 
entertainment value. At best. Sidekicks is 
mediocre, at worst, it's downright boring.continued on page 1)4
Head of the Class - ABC. Howard 
Hesseman stars in this reverse premise 
remake ofWelcome Back, Kotter; this time 
the misfits are honors students, not 
"sweathogs." But, like the sweathogs, these 
kids never seem to do any work in class. 
They sit on the furniture, play games, come 
and go as they please, but they never open a 
book. Hesseman's comic talent is 
unfortunately drowned out by lines which are 
not only bad, but predictable as well. "How 
can you look at yourself?" asks one student 
of the fat kid (every class has one). And a 
second pipes up, "with a very large mirror." 
Even someone who had never seen TV 
before could have seen that one coming a 
mile away.
Our World - ABC. Just what you've been 
waiting for, another prime-time news 
magazine show a la 60 Minutes. This one 
has a bit of a catch, though; they focus on 
recent world history and try to re-live and 
explain the event. But, unless this one has a - 
rabbit in its hat, it doesn’t stand a chance 
against top rated Cosby, which it runs 
against.
Kay OBrien - CBS. Slightly classier 
than Dynasty, this is nonetheless a prime 
time soap. Kayo, she is called by friends, is 
a doctor. But not just any doctor, she is a 
Super Doctor, who has the time and 
psychological stability to get involved with 
her patients' private lives. On top of that, 
wouldn't you know, she has to deal with 
sexist superiors who can't stand the fact that 
she is the best surgeon in the Western 
hemisphere. She, along with the show, 
needs some toning down if this series is 
going to go anywhere.
rather predictable. We know going in who's 
going to win this case, so why stick around 
and watch?
The Wizard - CBS. This show truly 
has something for everyone; car chases, neat 
special effects, heart-touching moments, 
humor, and for TV connoisseurs, a decently 
talented cast. David Rappaport is Simon, a 
dwarf who invents toys for a living. But 
toys aren't all he makes. He has a knack for 
building things which could alter the balance 
of world power, so natuarally, he has to 
outstep the evil doers who want to steal his 
ideas, or kidnap him and force him to build 
some diabolical weapon. Simon also has a 
knack for making people happy, which 
keeps the hour from being a high tech 
version of the A-Team.
Crime Story - NBC. The pre-season 
ads for this announced "from the producers of 
Miami Vice;" it shows. It is simply Miami 
Vice in Chicago. Why they even bothered 
to date the scene in the 60's, I don't know. 
If it wasn't for their cars and the soundtrack, 
I don't think I'd notice. The show is just as
Together We Stand- ABC. Elliot Gould 
and Dee Wallace Stone are the parents of a 
natural son and an adopted daughter who one 
day get a visit from a representative of an 
orphanage asking them to take a "hard to 
place" child. They agree to spend an 
afternoon with him, and decide afterwards. 
The toddler they were expecting turns out to 
be a fourteen year old named Sam, who is 
Vietnamese. By the end of the afternoon, 
they have agreed not only to take Sam, but 
his six-year old "sister," Sally - who is black- 
as well.
This is just too much to ask an audience to 
accept. In real life, people spend more time 
picking a Christmas tree than this troup 
took to agree to add two members to their 
family. Not even the comic brilliance of 
Elliot Goutd could save this clinker.
By ANGELA TAYLOR
Tartan Television Critic 
Every Fall, like locusts they come upon 
us, and we await them eagerly; the new Fall 
shows. We sift through the garbage in 
hopes of finding that one gem; the Cheers, 
Taxi or Barney Miller of the bunch. But 
some seasons go by with nothing but a 
selection of losers akin to BJ and the Bear 
and Hello Larry. So, here we are, and here 
they are: the best and worst the networks 
offer us this fall.
could be a great comedy. While the 
characters (played well by Annie Potts, 
Dixie Carter, Delta Burke, and Jean Smart) 
are hilariously catty, made more so by their 
Southern accents, they could use some 
funnier lines.
Our House- NBC. Wilford Brimley 
(iCocoon ) stars in this family drama about a 
grandfather who takes in his widowed 
daughter-in-law and her three kids. This, of 
course, throws some cogs in his routine as 
well as that of his neighbors. House has a 
great deal of heart-touching family spirit. I 
was half expecting Michael Landon's name 
to appear in the credits. The show is 
appealing to the family audience which is 
too young for 60 Minutes and too old for 
The Disney Movie.
Easy Street- NBC. This situation comedy 
is built around a situation which is more 
than hard to swallow: L.K. McGuire (Loni 
Anderson) is a wealthy widow who, for 
unknown reasons, puts her hobo-ish uncle 
and his friend up in her posh Hollywood 
home. The entire premise of the show is the 
"guests" shedding human insight on the 
lives of these snobs, and the snobs looking 
down on the guest. It's only a matter of' 
time before they run out of plots.
Matlock- NBC. So, Andy Griffith is back 
on prime-time. He should have held out for 
a better script. This one has the 
stereotypical byline about a dumb looking 
and sounding Southern lawyer who is 
patronized by city slickers. And while he's 
smiling politely, he's sticking it to them, 
because he's actually smarter than they are. 
The show really isn't bad; it's just that with 
this hackneyed approach the entire hour is
violent and color-coordinated as its Florida 
counterpart. However, it does have one 
benefit over Vice, Dennis Farina (as 
Lieutenant Mike Torello) is a talented actor, 
at least in this part. He is an honestly rough- 
edged guy trying not to let his work mess up 
his life.
Jack and Mike - ABC- Shelly Hack and 
Tom Mason as Jackie Shea and Mike 
Brennan, a fun loving Yuppie couple living 
in the big city. She's a journalist with her 
own column, and he's a retired jazz musician 
who runs his own restaurant. The show has 
one big hang up: Shelly Hack. She hasn't 
learned to act since she was fired from 
Charlie’s Angels But the damage, and the 
casting, is done. With some good writing, 
and more attention on Mike, maybe no one 
will notice Ms. Hack's lack of talent, as 
long as the script doesn't require her to be 
too happy or too sad.
Illustration byKurtShaw

---------------------------------------------------

Page D2—The Tartan—October 7, 1986
Camper Van Beethoven’s new release shows great promise
By DAN WEIR
Tartan Assistant Entertainment Editor
Athens Ga.'s R.E.M. established itself 
largely in college circles and is now realizing 
it's potential in the music market. It's only 
fitting that they should use their influence to 
expose college audiences to promising 
young bands in need of college-radio airplay. 
The dB’s, the Dream Syndicate and the 
Minutemen have all toured with R.E.M. at 
one time or another since 1984. This year, 
yet another under-exposed band joins the 
bill. On the 24th of this month Califor­
nia's, Camper Van Beethoven warms the st­
age at the Syria Mosque.
CVB combines ska and jangly pop in a 
distinctively funny sound ( you know, just 
like Madness — only different) on their most
recent outting, Take the Skinheads 
Bowling (Rough Trade). Sloppy guitars 
dominate the record - lending it the Western 
element while what sounds like Farfisa 
organ slides in and out of typically catchy
changes (see “Colonel Enrique Adolfo Ber­
mudez”). In the course of a few days, I’ve 
found myself coming back to this tune again 
and again. What I find most infectious ab­
out this music is its basis on ethnic riffs: I 
admire any band that realizes the potential in
a solid hook. “Epigram” evokes a Yiddish 
folk dance and “Colonel Enrique”... runs 
from Taps to Tex-Mex.
I've heard it said that while the band 
admits they rely on a "comic" approach, 
they're anxious to be accepted for their more 
"straight" numbers. This sounds good to 
me, I can see where the novelty gets old, 
but the lyrics on this record are mostly 
incoherent. Mind you, I'm not talking 
Michael Stipe unintelligible - rather, the 
vocals are strangely effect-ed. Also, on one 
tune that can be deciphered, the entire band 
chants only, "Aren't ch'all cowboys from 
Hollywood?" - so there's really not much 
room for literary analysis. Still, you can't 
help but get antsy when you hear the 
slightly quirky, upbeat strains of most of the
tunes. And when they aim to be stupid, 
they treat it as an art. The title track is a 
gem. First released on the band's premiere 
lp (this is their third release) Take the 
Skinheads Bowling features the type of 
memorable, really odd lyric of which I'd like 
to hear more. Take for instance, ... Some 
people say that bowling alleys got big lanes/ 
some people that bowling alleys all look the 
samel there's not a line that goes here that 
rhymes with anything /had a dream last 
night but I forget what it was. Whether you 
love it or hate it, you won’t easily forget it.
If you're headed for the R.E.M. show on 
the 24th, and you haven't yet heard any 
Camper Van Beethoven, make an effort to 
introduce yourself - you may be pleasantly 
surprised.
Picks from across the hall: Piglatin, Paul Sturm, and more
By DAVID MILLER
Special to the Tartan
Virgil Moorefield's "Bhopal" is perhaps the 
best album to be released this year. The 
lyrical emphasis is on the Union Carbide 
accident in Bhopal, India. This is the strand 
of continuity which brings together this 
fascinatingly diverse album. The album
opens with a building instrumental which 
draws on tribal rhythms. From this point 
on, the album musically flipflops between 
an energetic mix of jazz and punk, built 
around guitars, trumpet, saxaphone, and a 
great deal of percussion and slower, more 
textural pieces that make good use of 
electronics and violin.
Piglatin's My Hand's Go Blind EP is 
similar to Virgil Moorefield's in its use of 
traditional jazz instruments... however, the 
rock focus is taken away by the lack of 
guitar or drums. Piglatin's lineup features 
scrap metal, bass, coronet, tenor sax and 
vocals that are an odd mix of jazz and 
pleasingly disturbing drone. Their style is
KNOCK 
OURSOCKSOFF 
AND WIN $3000.
The 1987 Honeywell Futurist Awards Competition
Here’s your chance to stop us in our tracks: Power-up your imagination and make a 25-year leap into 
the future. Turn your visions into two short essays, and you could win one of ten $3000 prizes plus a 
Honeywell summer internship. Call toll-free 800-328-5111 (ext. 1581) for an entry form and
complete rules. Or write: Honeywell Futurist Awards Competition, MN12-4164 Honeywell 
Plaza, Minneapolis MN 55408. We’ll even send you a pair of future socks for 
practice. But don’t drag your feet—you must request your entry form before 
December 31,1986; and mail your entry by January 31,1987
Together, we can find the answers.
Honeywell
experimental and innovative, but very 
cohesive. This EP is highly recommended.
Paul Sturm is a performance artist who 
certainly will not meet with the commercial 
success of Laurie Anderson, due to his much 
more minimalist style. On Sturm's album 
Long Distance humorous use is made of 
electronic sampling, and I particularly like 
the tuba on "Good Time". This album is a 
fine choice for those of you who listened to 
Laurie Anderson in high school, but have 
tired of her.
In Boston, Gang Green was the surprise 
winner of the Rock 'N Roll Rumble, 
succeeding last year's winner, Til Tuesday. 
Their new album, Another Wasted Night, is 
musically intelligent hardcore without the 
lyrical preaching. Their remake of "Voices 
Carry" is as lame as the original, but the rest 
of the album is full of the kind of party's 
style hardcore that made Black Flag a 
success.
The Neon Judgement's recent release Mafu 
Cage puts them in the disco-drone 
sweepstakes with The likes of Sisters of 
Mercy, Yello, and the Swans. Powerful 
electronics and excessively deep vocals make 
this LP acceptable fare for both trendy 
punkers and daring dance clubs.
Trisomie 21's Chapter IV, album shows 
some obvious Joy Division influence but 
also a definitve style of their own. Songs 
range from beautifully crafted ambient music 
to an industrial mesh of pounding and tape 
loops to traditional new wave.
All six of these albums may be heard on 
WRCT. Bhopal, My Hands Go Blind, and 
Long Distance are available through New 
Music Distribution Service, Jazz
Composer's Orchestra Association, Inc., 500 
Broadway, NY, NY 10012 (212) 925-2121. 
Another Wasted Night on Taang! Records, 
PO Box 51 Aubemdale, MA 02166, can be 
found at better local record stores, as can 
Mafu Cage and Chapter IV which are the 
most recent releases of Play It Again Sam 
Records, 67 Rue de Cureghem, 1000 
Brussels, Belgium.
David Miller is the Music Director at 
WRCT
I----------------------------------------------------------------1
\\ IN F RLE \K)\ If! TIC KLIS
Its easy. Just Send your answer to 
Box 918. Now the question:
What was the name of the 
first motion picture 
ever?
Tickets courtesy of DDF&M

---------------------------------------------------

Page D3—The Tartan—October 7, 1986
The Pittsburgh Symphony puts in yet another fine show
By KARYN SILVA
Tartan Music Critic
The PSO under the direction of conductor 
Zdenek Macal, transported Thursday nights 
audience to another land and another time 
with a captivating performance of Respighi’s 
The Pines of Rome.
The Pines of Rome was a sweeping finale 
to the evening's program that also included 
Beethoven's Overture to Egmont, Mozart's 
Concerto in C Major for Piano and 
Orchestra, and Prokofiev's Symphony No. 1 
in d Major. This program was also 
performed Saturday evening and Sunday 
afternoon.
The theme to The Pines of Rome stems 
from the Italian countryside. It was 
completed between 1916 and 1928 as the 
first of a symphonic triptych. Resphigi 
composed it for a large orchestra including 
piano, six buccine (Roman Military 
trumpets), recorded nightingale song and an 
entire arsenal of percussion. Incorporated 
within the score is the melody of the 
Renaissance epoch and Gregorian chant.
The Pines of Rome opened like a fairy tale 
with a shimmery, spirited quality in a 
movement that is fast and technical and 
concentrates on the woodwinds and the 
percussion. This movement is titled “The 
Pines of the Villa Borghese”, which is in the 
garden atop Monte Pincio in Rome. Bere, 
Respighi has tried to convey the image of 
children dancing in circles and playing 
soldier, completely caught up in their game 
among the trees. The music swoops and 
circles and ominously builds to and abrupt 
cut off.
The following movement, “Pines Near A 
Catacomb”, is an awe inspiring lament that 
builds in power and then dies away. The 
solmen depth of the strings created a 
background for the song like voices of the 
flute and trumpet. There is an air of mystery 
connected with psalm's being sung in the 
shawdows of the pines.
The music then took the audience to “The 
Pines of the Janiculum.” The piano imitated 
the soft evening breezes and the oboe 
conveyed the calm hush of night. The 
strings created a sense of peace and the 
almost unreal quality to the music. In the 
end, startlingly, the actual trill (a digital 
recording) of a nightingale incorporates itself
into the music much to the audiences 
delight.
The final movement, “The Pines of the 
Appian Way”, begins ominously and almost 
threatening with the ponderous rythm of the 
strings creating footsteps. It is representing 
the bygone glories. Slowly the music builds 
and brightens until it triumphantly 
proclaimed new victories. The audience was 
impressed and enthusiastic after the 
performance. Both Macal and the orchestra
rose to the occasion and gave an exciting and 
intelligent reading. Macal did not try to over 
exaggerate the extreme dynamic nature of the 
piece, instead, he accomplished the same 
effect by using a fine-tuned, yet smaller 
dynamic range.
Also memorable was the incredible display 
of talent by Spanish pianist Alicia de 
Larrocha. The orchestra created a backdrop 
for her brilliance in the Mozart Concerto. 
The ease with which de Larrocha seemingly 
created the music was phenomenal. She 
existed in her own world where her hands 
seemed to float over the keyboard.
This concerto was composed by Mozart in 
1786. It begins with an Allegro maestoso 
that first has the theme in the orchestra with 
the rich sound of the strings predominating. 
The Andante is in F major and is an episode 
of noble and serene inspiration. The finale is 
an Allegretto in rondo form that is both 
serene and vigorous. The audience loved de 
Larrocha's playing and the diminutive pianist 
received a bouquet of roses at the end of her 
performance.
De Larrocha made her public debut early in 
1929. She has received numerous honors for 
her playing including two Grammy's for best 
classical performance. De Larrocha made her 
debut with the Pittsburgh Symphony 
Orchestra in March 1973 with Macal and has 
since performed with them eight times.
Prokofiev's Symphony No. 1 also 
delighted the audience. The composer 
approached the task of writing this 
symphony with a degree of irony. The work 
was done during 1916 in the midst of World 
War I.
The first movement, Allegro, has two
themes; one is quck, light and played by the 
entire orchestra with an amusing passage 
where the strings play with the staccato 
accompaniment of the bassoon. The other 
theme is more ponderous and heavy. The 
following Larghetto is charmingly graceful 
with a tender almost whistful theme in the 
violins, The third movement, the Gavotte, 
contained the echoes of a Russian folk tune 
which is Prokofiev's individual style. The 
Finale contained the first theme again. It was 
lively amd amusing with short repeated 
phrases by the violins. This piece coupled 
with the Respighi comprised a dramatic 
second half to the concert.
The concert opened with Beethoven's 
Overture to Egmont which spotlighted 
Macal's conducting. The piece was written as 
part of the incidental music for Goethe s 
great drama, Egmont.
The story is about political struggle defeat 
and ultimate triumph. The opening theme is 
a sarabande rythm to represent the character 
Duke of Alba. The main allegro to the piece 
represents the Netherlands drive for freedom 
embodied in Egmont.
Macal handled both moods with ease and 
control. Never letting the orchestra rush the 
music, as the score's great last few bars are 
often brought to surface prematurely, the 
reading showed balance. Most people tend to 
ignore the intricated orchestration found in 
its middle section, however, Macal did not 
let this area pass by without special 
treatment.
Next at the Symphony
Berio, Two Piano Concerto 
Bartók, Miraculous Madarin Suite
Kodaly, Dances of Galanta Kodaly, Hary Janos Suite
Adam Fischer, conductor 
Katia and Marielle Labeques, pianos
Guest Conductor Zdenek Macal gave an impressive performance on Thursday
Scotland Yard Report
By KAREN GRAY
Special To The Tartan
In an effort to bolster its attraction as a 
campus night spot, Scotland Yard, CMU's 
student-run pub, has begun hosting live 
local musical groups.
The Cynics, a local throwback to the 60's 
"grunge" sound, drew a fair sized crowd of 
students and others when they played at 
Scotland Yard last Saturday night. There was 
no admission fee, and Scotland Yard 
Entertainment Chair Maria Cousineau said 
she plans to keep it that way.
This semester marks the first time since 
the establishment's opening last year that a 
budget has been allocated for live 
entertainment, said Cousineau, adding that 
most of the scheduled engagements with 
local bands are "still pretty tentative."
"The budget is limited," she said, "and the 
space [in Scotland Yard] is not that 
conducive to live bands." She noted, 
however, that both The Cynics and The 
Affordable Floors, who played two weekends 
earlier, drew "good responses."
Cousineau said she hopes entertainment 
plans, which starting in October will include 
a film night, will tum Scotland Yard into 
"more of a hangout.”
"We want people to come here to 
socialize," she said. "[Scotland Yard] is not 
just a restaurant."
We feature GM cars bke this Chevy Chevette.
Make The Grade
We'll help you do your best at get­
ting around. You can rent a car if 
you're 18 or older, have a valid 
driver's license, current student 
I.D. and a cash deposit. Stop by 
and fill out a short cash qualifi­
cation form at least 24-hours in
advance.
You pay for gas used and return 
car to renting location. Most 
major credit cards accepted.
Nom-discountaUe rate npfhn to Chevy Chevette or similar-sne car and is subject to change without notice Rates slightly lower for driven over IS. Specific can sublet I to availability. Certain daily minimum* apply. Weekend rate available from acorn Thursday to Monday. Call for details.
$2495PER DAY WEEKENDS
100 miles per day included. Additional mileage 20« per mile.
M National Car Rental.
Camegie-Mellon deserves National attention*
261-5500 I 434 Boulevard of the Allies 
682-1444 I 4621 Forbes Avenue (Oakland)

---------------------------------------------------

Page D4—The Tartan—October 7, 1986
Everything from a wisecracking furr ball to a serious legal drama
continued from front page
Starman- ABC. Robert Hays is the same 
alien Jeff Bridges played in the movie of the 
same title, returned to Earth to seek his son 
(yes, he did get her pregnant). He is 
currently inhabiting the cloned body of a 
playboy photographer who ventured too 
close to a volcano. The show is fun - 
especially watching the alien react to the 
surprising new sensations a human body 
provides - but has a sort of standard plot; the 
alien and its human companion (in this case 
his son) run into various adventures as they
run from the _____________ (fill in the
government agency, in this case the FSA).
LA. Law - NBC. Steven Bochco has taken 
his leave from Hill Street Blues in stride. 
The same formula that worked so well on 
the cop show concept and the doctor show 
concept (St. Elsewhere ) is applied to new 
ground here. This is a refreshing change 
from the old law shows which painted 
attorneys as self-sacrificing, do-gooders who 
always stand up for the underdog. LA. Law 
shows the law for what it really is. Some of 
it's attorneys are money-grubbing leeches, 
some humanistic liberals, and some are 
those who just have a real concern for and 
interest in the legal system. The show hosts 
main and sub-plots and allows us into the 
lives of its characters outside of the firm; 
they fight the system, struggle with moral 
conflicts, and get death threats from 
perturbed clients. This one is definitely a
Life with Lucy - ABC. Yes, Lucille Ball 
is back, but not with a bang. This time 
Lucy is playing Lucy Barker, a "hip" 
grandmother who moves in with her 
daughter's family. Her dead husband's 
business partner (Gale
Gordon), who is also her son-in-law's father -
are you following this? - moves in too, 
because he doesn't want Lucy to have more 
time with the grandkids than he does. Sound 
reasoning. But, this show just doesn't have 
any umph. The writing is awful, with cute, 
predictable lines that make you want to 
change the channel. Lucille Ball is still 
doing the same broad comedy she was doing 
with Desi Amaz in the 50's, and it just 
doesn't blend well with the precocious, off- 
the-cuff lines that accompany it. To make 
matters worse, the show has the least 
talented supporting cast since Dijfrent 
Strokes. It was an effort to even smile at 
this stuff, however, the laugh track seemed 
to think it was funny.
The Ellen Burstyn Show - ABC. Ms. 
Burstyn plays college professor Ellen 
Brenner who shares a house with her mother, 
recently divorced daughter, and grandson. 
The situation adds new life to the hackneyed 
family show concept, without going too far 
out on a limb; the premise isn't too far 
fetched. The lines are funny, but not as 
funny as they could be. Ellen Burstyn is 
fantastic (and may I say she looks great, too) 
and Elaine Stritch as the grandmother is the 
best mother since Estelle Getty of The 
Golden Girls. But their talent will only go 
to waste if the writers don't get on the ball 
and bring this show to its full potential.
Amen - NBC. Sherman Hemsley is back 
and NBC's got him. In Amen he plays a 
character not unlike that of George Jefferson. 
He is the not-so-pious deacon of a 
Philadelphia church, who does as much fast- 
talking and wheeling and dealing as old 
George ever did, and Hemsley has not lost 
his touch at delivering one-liners and cutting 
insults. Ed. Weinberger (co-creator of Taxi 
and The Cosby Show ) is in the producer's 
seat, so the show has great promise, and it 
doesn't hurt for it to be following the already 
successful Golden Girls.
Heart of the City- ABC. Another cop 
show. At least ABC had the gusto to break 
away from the popular mold of cops who 
beat up hoods and shoot at anything that 
moves as part of their daily routine; 
unfortunately, they went to far. Robert 
Desiderio is Detective Wes Kennedy, a too- 
good-to-be-true cop and loving father who 
isn't appreciated in either capacity. Kennedy 
doesn't let crooks escape, but doesn't harass 
informants or let the victim get shuffled 
under a pile of red tape, either. How does he 
do it? His writers are living in a 40's
OAKLAND: The University of
Pittsburgh's Studio Theatre opens its season 
with Meta: A Hero For Our Time, a 12 past 
audio adventure series broadcast every 
Monday at 7:30 p.m. on WPTS, 98.5 FM, 
from October 6 through December 29.
Lance Skapura, director of Meta says, 
"Think of it as the Starship Enterprise 
crashing into the Hill Street Stationhouse, 
and then dumping the whole thing into the 
Golden Triangle. That is a good image of 
what the plot is like."
Meta is an original script written for radio 
theatre by Delta Vee, a Pittsburgh-based 
group of writers, directors, and actors. Meta 
is the group's script-writing debut.
Leading a cast of six, Kelly Van Aken stars 
as Robin Meta, a Federal Aviation 
Administration Investigator from Pittsburgh,
detective magazine, where reality - and even 
probability - doesn't count for much.
These are just the shows the networks 
decided to open with. When these flail 
around from night to night, like fish out of 
water, trying to find an audience, and 
eventually die away, the networks will throw 
in some specials and eventually bring out 
the shows that were placed on the back 
burners. A lot, in fact, most of these shows 
will not be back for the second round of the 
ratings fight.
who becomes a superhero and battles 
everything from a little old lady terrorist to 
demonic city councilmen. Van Aken, a Pitt 
junior, was seen last season as Berta in 
Studio Theatre's production of Ibsen's Hedda 
Gabler. Other cast members include J.P. 
Nutitni and Dan Barnhill.
Hector In Paris, a local techno-rock band, 
will be performing the soundtrack to Meta. 
They have performed at the Bridgeville 
V.I.P., Graffiti, and the Three Rivers Arts 
Festival.
Part one of Meta: A Hero For Our Time 
will air on Monday, October 6 at 7:30 p.m. 
on WPTS, 98.5 FM. Parts two through 12 
will air every Monday at 7:30 p.m. through 
December 29. Call (412) 624-6587 for 
information.
It's another.f$w&J..night of studyiij^i’.-But suddenly,. fp<tf:j5^iK;harge into the room and 
yell, 'Tuck^:ifjijfi^:-’pet in bed." T^^asod to arg^:^ii:^aj^y-:jymp into bed. One per-
Tuck'il^':ar«;i;^t¥j^'.^fered‘f^-A^i-^ Omegx-^.j-aise moj^y.-for a charity while at 
the s#fie\:bine incffe^Csfejfep morale ofcjthe campus comjiftlpity. Seiji# a tuck-in to anyone
1 AJir front nf nf Ralcr>r in tVip. fvthe event of 
21 from 10-12.
must-see.
ANC
LITTLE ATHENS
2103 Murray Avenue • Pittsburgh, PA 15217
422-1330
FREE DELIVERY’
GYROS
(Pittsburgh’s biggest and best)$2.3 5
MINIMUM $5.00
MENU
SH1SHKABOBS................................................ ...............$2.85BOCBOKSYrY mst toY n gIe ^ w .........$5.M
GKEEK SALAD......................................................................$15#AJTTICHOKE SALAD........................................................... $2.2*
GKAPE LEAVES .....................................................................$2.35HOMMOUS tew..........................................................$1.55¦ABA GHANOGE fwph.« .................................................$1-55COMBINATION PLATTE! «>...............................$3.94FALAF1L M >¦¦¦< pm •»/ mm* .........................$1.58
CHEESE * SPINACH PIES....................................................$1.1«BCE PUDDING ....................................................................$ .75
GBEEK PASTUES.................................................................$ .55
FBENCH FBfES......................................................................$ .75
DBMKS......... ......................................................................$Mm Tmm
OPEN FROM 11 AM - 11 PM 
DELIVERY TIME 4 PM • 10:30 PM
Six Shows - Six Weeks
Week #3: 
10/6 - 10/8
THE SEAGULL
Free Admission
Monday Tuesday Wednesday
8:30 8:30 5 & 8:30
S'n
K

---------------------------------------------------

Page D5—The Tartan—October 7, 1986
fc.™b answers his voluminous reader mail
~ Drive-In Movie Critic
Communist Alert! It took ’em 46 years, 
but they finally bulldozed the South 29 
Drive-In on Wilkinson Boulevard in 
Chariotte, N.C. This one hurts more than 
usual—one of the first in the South, with a 
screen supported by 16 huge logs FirstrynM.—___picturein 1940: "Vivacious Lady," starring
Ginger Rogers and Jimmy Stewart. Last 
i picture in 1986: a front-end loader rippin it 
down with a steel cable. This leaves 
Charlotte, one of America's drive-in capitals 
in the 50's, with one measly drive-in—the 
Fox on Old Statesville Road. To discuss the 
meaning of life with Joe Bob, or to get junk 
mail, write Joe Bob Briggs, P.O. Box 33, 
Dallas, Texas 75221.
DEAR JOE BOB: How come under the 
new, self-policing cinema morality you can 
tear someone's still-thumping heart out and 
eat it in living, close-up color, but if the 
plot requires a shot of a half-dressed bimbo
I (a plot we don't see much of lately, come to 
; think of it), it's taken at twilight and 150 
| feet away?—BRUCE NORTHRUP, 
i CORVALLIS, ORE.
DEAR BRUCE: Cause the bimbo got 
lawyers and started stickin in Nookie 
Clauses. If the hearts ever get lawyers, we're 
in major trouble.
DEAR JOE BOB: What's the name of the 
"B-class" movie producer who bought a 
nuclear plant (abandoned) in South Carolina 
and turned it into a movie studio? Also, 
what city in South Carolina is the nuke 
plant located?—COMMITTEE FOR 
RECYCLING ABANDONED NUCLEAR 
; REACTORS, IRVING, TEXAS
DEAR COMMITTEE: If you've ever been 
Ithere, you will notice that the city of 
j Greenville, S.C., looks exactly like an
abandoned nuclear site. However, you got to 
go a few miles north to Shelby, NORTH 
Carolina, to find Earl Owensby, the "duke of 
the drive-in," producer of the classic "Hit the 
Road Running," which features 137 onscreen 
car wrecks, the current world record.
DEAR JOE BOB: Is it true that:
1. Virtue is not a virtue.
2. Virtue has no reward.
3. The axis of the earth is greased 
with barnyard excretions.
4. Anything can be faked except 
(censored by the high sheriffs).
5. It is better to receive than to
give.
6. When you fill your cup to drink 
form the river of life, there is always 
someone else, further upstream (censored).
7. You can tell a woman's age by' 
counting the growth rings around the stump.
8. Early to bed, early to rise, makes 
a man healthy, wealthy, but gives him 
(censored).
—DAVID L. ICHELSON, 
M.D., REDWOOD CITY, CALIF.
DEAR DAVE: Yes, but you have to 
remember (censored).
JOE BOB DEAREST: You come off like 
some guy who had a 10-round bout with a 
scotch bottle the night before and 
lost.—PATRICIA HENRY,
MIDLOTHIAN, VA.
DEAR PATRICIA: Yeah, but all I needed 
was SIX more hours.
HEP ME HEP ME!! Little Jimmy 
Swaggart is yelling about I(Eye)talians on 
TV and someone is yelling back at him from 
my living room and someone else is yelling 
at him from upstairs and I'm even yelling 
myself about spaghetti and being hooked on
We were looking for new 
shades when I realized It 
was time to do some­
thing about my hair. You 
know, my hair was 
driving me crazy. So, we 
cruised right into Great 
Expectations. Now with 
my new cut, my hair is 
driving Bobby crazy
Customers: Sue and Bob, 
inseparable ever since.
^^CJtCftT CHf€CTÜTI§nSPRECISION HAIRC UTTERS
The
DESIGNER PERM
$25,00only
Complete with written r guarantee.
The
PRECISION CUT
$13.00
ComDletfL with shampoo ar)d blow style.
JUST-A-CUT
$8.00
Cut only
r
SATISFACTION GUARANTEED 
Great Styles Start at
_MUSTJj^E_CQUPON_
SAVE $2.00 ~j .
GfliMMt
äwmmmnsPRECISION HAIRCUT TERS
NOAPfONTMENT
NECESSARY
L
on aPRECISION HAIRCUT
Complete with shampoo & styling
Offer expires:
OCT. 31.1986 “
ailTp,pc. g(piTy))li,
I237 Atwood Street Across the street from Oakland Post Office
687-3500
morphine and smoking cigarettes down to 
where they was nothing left and then 
chewing it and he had six weeks to live and 
his body would look like a claw if he didn't 
get saved by Jeezus and and it was not so 
awful far from right 'cheer they was speaking 
in tongues or with a tongue and he didn’t 
know it and Jeezus kept him from going to 
Hell or Harlem or something about 
Commies coming all over my living room 
or why was the ground white after Custer's 
last stand or or or or well the porpoise of 
this letter is to exclaim to the heavens that 
they've closed down the Midway Drive-In 
and I ain't got nowhere to go on Saturdays
no no to make out with Sandra my big 
breasted Meskin looking girlfriend. We got 
cable but it's all local for some reason and I 
ain't got no time for local women who need 
to shave or have two-three chains or preach 
at me and make me feel guilty. Hep me Hep 
me Hep me—G. KEITH HAMRICK, 
LYNN, N.C.
DEAR KEITH: Time to dedicate your life 
right now. Time to walk that drive-in aisle. 
Time to send me 30 bucks so you can be 
ELECTRONICALLY healed and so you can 
find out how to make drive-ins rise from the 
dead and how Jimmy Swaggart is really a 
wind-up doll. This is your only hope.Firecracker is a blast!
By LAURA LIND
Tatan Theatre Critic
The Miss Firecracker Contest. Just 
another beauty pageant where girls vie to 
wear the crown that says they're the prettiest 
and most talented, right? Not to Camelle 
Scott. For Camelle, this pageant is a chance 
to redeem herself, to prove herself a worth­
while person.
Camelle Scott is the main character in 
Beth Henley's "The Miss Firecracker Con­
test," the first play of the season for CMU's 
Department of Drama. The play centers 
around Camelle's entrance into the contest, 
and its effects on her cousins and friends. 
Krisie Spear is convincing as the Mississ­
ippi girl who wants to erase her "runaround" 
past by becoming Miss Firecracker.
Kathryn Bums Suber is great as Camelle's 
cousin Elain, defining the word condes­
cending to a tee. A former Miss Firecracker, 
Elain represents what Camelle wants to be; 
well-to-do, pretty, and well-respected by the 
community.
Delbert Highlands is also excellent in his 
portrayal of Camelle's rebellious, somewhat 
insane cousin, Delmount. The audience sees
more than his eccentricities as the play 
progresses; this quality makes his character 
more believable.
Donna Fogel adds humor to the play with 
her portrayal of the seamstress, Popeye 
Jackson, the epitome of a down-to-earth 
country girl. She, too, is a bit eccentric, and 
provides the instigation for many of the 
humorous scenes.
Colin Martin and Pamela Winslow are also 
very effective in their roles as the balloon 
man at the carnival and the ugliest girl in 
town, respectively.
There are funny, often ridiculous scenes 
throughout the play, but the audience can 
sense hints of true emotion. This makes the 
play even more entertaining, because the 
audience sees more than just the flat 
characters typical of most comedies. By the 
end, one feels attatched to the characters, and 
cares what happens to them. "The Miss 
Firecracker Contest" is a show well worth 
seeing; the actors and director Michael 
Shamata deserve a great deal of credit.
To order tickets, call the Carnegie Mellon 
Drama box office at 268-2407, Monday- 
Friday, noon-5p.m.
SENIORS%
Have you had your Senior portrait taken?
Don't be left out! Sign up NOW at the Into 
Desk -- last day of portraits is October 16 
(you must pre-register).
Questions? Call The Thistle at \2 12 1.
—Funded b\ Smdeni \eli\ilie^ Fee

---------------------------------------------------

Comics
BLOOM COUNTY Provided by SDC by Berke Breathed BLOOM COUNTY Provided by SDCby Berke Breath«
iTsHAffm?/ 
oum has
adin sV tRsp iep d-sU'Tn lkg¿ koSfSvgk i gy® mO&¿ zone: o¿E¿P kEOc$f¿BE A STARTLING WITH YOURkokmk¿1®S1O k¿f¿®OEk¿ETO ALLTHIS. WtS MORNING.
HMM.O I'M NOT ft CAT : fiFTZR ALL.IT WAS ALL JUST A HORRIBLE PREAM.
I'M AFRA/P IT HAP BEEN.. A bOOP JOKE
yes., y y ®Ok¿1kSyf(yOOP GIGGLE ANP FUÑNY CUT pom JOKE ¦ IN rrs PRIME.
A GOOP, FUNNY ANPPEAP JOKE.
WHAT THEHAPPENED? LAWYERS , "CLEANEP UP'MY CARTOON.
OH,ogS&mS3g 1OkSO1n o¿ gyE®fy KNEW YE.
mu k¿EEOESm& Sm c®...THE ECONOMY IS POWN.. ANP PAW LETTERMAN'S FRONT TEETH ARE STIU, SPREAPING APART.WANNA KNOW WHAT I WINK 7 s---
..PONT YOU THINK IT'S HIGH TIME MICHAEL JACKSON WENT ON A PATE?
I KNOW WHAT YOU THINK / YOU THINK NOTHING S PEEN THE SAME SINCE MARIE OSMONP'S PlVOR.CE// THATS ALWAYS WHAT YOU THINK'/ s—\
HOW PERFECTLY POOPY OF YOU TO SffY THAT. iN FACT, THIS INHOLE 7 VWN HAS BEEN ACTING POOPY LATELY.
IN FACT, THE WHOLE COUNTRY HAS GONE TO HELL INA HANP BASKETSINCE PAVIP LEE FÜTH LEFT "VANHALEN."
WELL. I'M GLAP YOU CAN SLEEP. GOOP GOSH,..THE . (MY IS GONNA BE ^ tRsTt5 mOO1..n
Lasa;
R¿E¿ IS THE OFFICE OF THE NEW CARTOONIST OF "THE BLOOM TKAYUNE.' US NEW COMC STRIP STARTER TOPftY...
...AMIN, ONE MIGHTWONPZR WHETHER THE CARTOONIST ~-UNFORTVNATELY. TOPAY'S STRIP INCUJPEP THE WORP *PRIT~.. WHICH MANY CARTOONISTS PONT REALIZE IS A RACJAL SLUR TO MOST TAHITIANS.
THE * TAHITIAN PEFENSE LEAGUE ’ IS OUTSIPE THEBUILPING ñCKEVNG ANP GETTING RILEP UP. ONE MIGHT WONPER WHETHCk THE CARTOONIST IS /MAKE OF THIS.
A BASSEIOPE SOUNPS VICIOUS HAVE ANY PROTECTION TTHE SHOES ARE BY *REEBW] THE WEAPON, BY 'LOUISVIUÌ SLUGGER'.. THEFASHIONS® \ "BANANA F&UBUC:
THANK YOU ALL SO mi
.THE SEARCH FOR THE FABLE? FZASSELOPE' SIR... WHAT, EXACTLY, ISA BA5SELOPE ?
HERE IS THE INTREPIP REPORTER FOR-THE BLOOM PICAYUNE-ON WE TRACK OF THE BIGGEST STORY OF HIS CAREER-HE IS ANP A STATEMENT IS BEINO PREPARE? *
BRINGING UP THE FEAR.PART BASSET HOUNP... PART ANTELOPE. \ VERY RARE.
Off.'Cill51tipperOfClCQl5tnppTofCicqlStripper-of Ficql SHipper
PO YOU HAVE ANY IPEA WHAT HAPPENS WHEN YOU HIKE UP A PAIR OF SHORTS ANP YOUR LEGS ARE ONLY TWO INCHES/¿PK &&h
kg¿ ¿C®E¿meIS CALLEP "GETTING f\ !wEPoie; i BUT 15HAÑ1 ELABORATE.
YES, A BASSELOPE IS PART BASSET HOUNP PART ANTELOPE. THE MILITARY HAS BEEN LOOKING FOR ONE FOR YEARS...
APPARENTLY THEY WANT TO USE THEM AS...UH..SAY...WHERE ARE 1YOUR NEW "BANANA REPUBLIC' CLOTHES ? <
I PIPN'T MEAN THEY'RETO INSULT THE AMERKM WEM WITH A REAPINGRACIAL SLUR. PUBLIC...i / -THEY'RE VERYY FORMING.
TELL YOU ! THEM I'M TELL WEM. INPtSPOSEP. YOU PREW 3,/ .WE CARTOON.
THEY'RE 1HAVING A THEY'RE CAMPFIRE! BURNWG \ YOU IN -k> \ EFFIGY.
, TM I VERYINPTSPOSEP.
JANbS GLISTEN / BLOOP FlOiucS¿kfzn kg¿ S1kE¿®S® E¿®OEkH¿E eaB Rsp eTD'B eppspteat -s' sa iest VdT tR'sT '-\psU' BT'5M i' Ve^-'B ^epp'-dB'..
.RECKLESSLY THEY TEARTHROUOh WE THORNS ANP POISON IVY / ANP TOGETHER THEY LEAP UPON THE BUCKING, SNORTING, SPITTING BEAST "...
'-SIGH., z ITS ABOUT AN OVERWEIGHT BUT LOVABLE SMART ALECK
mwYA
mtrrCfíSHMEBUN (mi
„SUPPENLY, THEY SPY THE RARE ANIMAL, SCURRYING PEEP INTO THE INKY PARKNESS OF THE THICK WOOPS / TUB CHASE 16 ON " _____
'GOOFY GILBERT..ANOTHER NEIN COMC STRIP ? I THINK I THIS ISTHE BIG ONE.
T... I THINK I FINALLY GOT IT...' ' FEEL PARTICULARLY COMPELLEP TO KEEP UP WITH i THIS STORY ?
uwmim
h* -me mm1'
» mz.Mp' , 
3 NOT Mimi
DQFd.. L Bdat \a...LIKE THE THE LAWYERSEXPRESSION WOULP LIKEON YOUR TO PISCUSSFACE . THE CARTOONN _ , YOU SUBMITTEPI FOR TOMORROW
/ / mum \ \ MLLimy
! tYEWOX
jEKTiim
KEEP GO TUI LOOKING/ \
fcifmetNHofámr
vsa %
SS&r '
rr /y
oosomernm. 
&&&ì &m> ib attack.'i can ssmtrf
\ WE WOULPNT \WAHT TO UPSET MR KOPFEL INTO A LAWSUIT WOULP WE ?\ FORK IT I) OVER.
I YES.APPARENTLY,YOUR CARTOONREFERS TO IT WAS TEPKOPPEL A LITTLE WEARING JOKEWOMEN'S /JttPERWEAR /p—
CH60SH... OH ÙOSH...wmIPO f
WE'LL JUST CLEAN IT UPy urne. zOcNE¿< PRtPPtNGSUME ON IT.
YOUCAUEP. YOUR ROYAL \ LAWYEfSHlPi}

---------------------------------------------------

You Are Hereby Nadini Sudd, Ltd
hgldfeil TALKIMÇ ^800-jr me.... I KmôuJ %w&\
AEE...X WâTê' ‘THlS..-
•N KtcT/e cijpeuJE have Tmc cooeres^ 7» 
LBf TUSSE peofKP STlcy IkJ 
OUR COUKJVZ^I, ifou'b "TM/nJK. 
They'D w coobtbs^To sp&uí ©oí» us# so me pijjQu^ uuMo -rue^tze kyc&gmAKtv.1T ! ---
by Kurt Shaw
Ed Baranoski
ño visad Tartn He]p sfw Ua PEG8EE AFTee HEViewrUG "josr 
A ^f*J ¿fcer VECMtKAL PAPftZZ."
PL/na^ To tine y0í¡ kO D33k(saPHEß. Vr\s SrVDy/U& Pai£MS Pu D. /A/ 'c3kQS3efwf £Â/6/AJ£-£îe/A)6.
C4G.ÇFUU OK. ir- 
ieSpe callfo -ra yod.THAT UMS SEM en LOUG
n4VLBf TUS, ¿«i twt 
^/¿f /s ST/tt Gaoujthiç,
\<U8-£1
by Jim Voorhees
SQUS IRELH OUR TÏAM 
COPPE& THE CHAMP- 
SOMSHiPANB AFfcEE
I Flew ne*t to 6 KiWiur OLt> 
mam who SPOKE WITH a Qoi£T 
ACCENTED VOICE. WE WERE 
TAtWMfc ABOUT OUR HOMiLMlOS 
WHEfJ HIS EVES V»H DEWED - -
'IT WAS W76. 2 WAS 17 AJJD A SENIOR IN HIGH 5CH00L»A LETTER MAN OiJ THE WRESTLING SQUAD."
THEN I ^AW WHV.
.l() Pllbu
CR.I5IS TW£ A1RÍ W*c
)nmo TO OEiMAHY TO COMPETE AGAINST SOME OF EUROPE’S 8EST.
The Carnegie Space Mellon by Thurston W. Jeffries
TOC'S C*AO f>LAK> Oi 
p(HbWJTv (N Pl(ac. our or THEie. S»«c.ei>H\f>r
XT WAS "Reew i.OMOßEO 
TUA-! the I^ATotoTi or 
The füKiOi Pote. TUE , 
CPAC.Ê HK'JC CCMC
<eot^ Twt t>e.fek>se tserACTfAeKiT...
‘STOP PoiViTtKiG XT
KT TAE \\by Jeff Diehl^TH&tE we will. wm I A BKABF 2>£t*Y WHLB]
«SLÌliS*»*[£> Jk 5-««se.*
IS YOUX.f'SE)Sw
ALMOST -fHW>itmriKsr t-e<» ora a nnsedKt,n Ac3n«tu. Sfi ¿JhHDHjCf INlev/W wnww/swft
TWW#c *>t/ ovceAOA/A* /w HXtfG CRP MhCtf/OÑ MR., A ¡b/tfS/Otf 0^HBU-ON.
by Translucia Baboon & Klutz KaboomCMUtantsri arc wt SKlilMIM.SO I
gl bLcIH nut­
zer Ob cSkg i WfTHis is xr nwwt;,Rf \\ uiiF*rTJMr¿r.nHiND, ----‘J ME lb «H» A MUTo cvn+utt.Yoa\ r1FT re the hcus**; KNOW 1WIS UuSSY.’l omtl .. r~----
MOW WT TIHMT HAS [FIMISHeO his fAlj.-
fuite SDMerm* IBM HAS HtmXOl 
Ilk KILTteflWM'jeu, no-one is SElLUf oh CAMPÜ5 V9ve irrjME.
m***.Aw».
^cwuca: gOo cO,f(IYOU UKe T6 WOéZK TOR YÖUR CMUT^r.^~~7 T^mTTuF /___V^wC^/fTS
KTS YQUK MAJOR? 
J^&UCK, UH, THB.ffc.
^X'o&nrçRV^ Sow V'^vAi »»S *>o«r*! X , »r VivWN Fg­ Kt(T 
\Cu<i«*f A®< Pu*-S
x(I-D pDRc 'tu\ 
Know V/h«®e X
^\tC,WT f\Nt>Sc>*Ae Fv.«- Kou^< 
Ti> Do BwnzW»TM7
How, VF T't^ fv>iHt,-TO &f A- WiOO.W fxRijr hgpOH V- lS
5oV>r«.- Cbwi«.it> tv\<- V>u-A»^S ro r.cv^T-
- 'UíVi_t I O(kVhdIW 
OmX«Jui^ TA Ont», \ He WA^ A R.«a*_ 
7V3*6t*äd! H«T»%S Wo**«»
’R^ncsly'

---------------------------------------------------

(Guaranteed
CANSHALF KEGSBudweiser 
Miller *¦ 
Lite
Old Milwaukee $19.99 
Stroh's $22.99Iron City $22.99
IC Light $23.99Budweiser $27.99IC Cooler White Mountain Calvin CoolerStroh's 
30 pack
EVERYDAY LOW PRICES
Budweiser $7.99
IC Light $799Iran City $6.99
Old Milwaukee $6.49Rolling Rock $7.99
Schlitz Malt $8.99Stroh's $6.99
$9.49 $27.99 $1639$9.99 $23.99 $16.99$7.99 $22.99 $16.99
$7.79 $19.99 $12.99
$8.99 $26.70
$9.99 $26.25 $14.99$8.99 $22.99 $15.50
Ask for our IMPORT PRICE LIST
Molson Golden 
Moosehead cans 1 t 
Labatts Beer & Ale 11
Fosters - """1 „ 4 eSt. Pauli Girl T|gfMi 1 ¦Becks ,\CtKWE HAVE 
ICE & CUPS
LOWEST BEER PRICES
We'll match any Competitor's Special 
PLUS pay you 10% ot the difference.
VISIT OUR BEER GIFT SHOPDab, Grolsch, Grizzly
BEERWORLD
MUST HAVE 
PHOTO DRIVERS LICENSE
BRENTWOOD
Brentwood WhriehoN Center 
Rt 51 A BrowmviRe Rd(tower lev^t fly S*o*e S*orel
NORTH VERSAILLES
Reor of Eoitlond Moll 
Off Rt 30(Formerly & Pop \Afarekou%e)
672-BEER
CNAFTON AGREENT RIE
2121 NobUstown Rd 
Exit 4. Parkway WfeiI 
(Befad Shop* Bc.IM
922-5526
HOURS: 8 am-10 pm Monday thru Saturday

---------------------------------------------------

Page D9—The Tartan—October 7, 1986
joe Bob finally breaks down and gets yuppie : a Video review
Bv JOE BOB BRIGGS
I Tartan Drive-In Movie Critic 
1 Been pretty bummed out ever since Gordon 
I McLendon died last week. Father of the drive- 
I king of the twin screen, producer of 
I Attack of the Killer Shrews and Giant Gila 
Monster, Gordo was the guy who built more 
drive-ins in the 50's than were built in the 
entire previous history of civilization. He 
built his last drive-in in 1983—the six- 
screen 1-45 Drive-In in Houston. He was the 
last guy that believed the drive-in will never 
,.|e only he died. And how much credit did 
he get? Ten seconds. Ten lousy seconds on 
Entertainment Tonight, where they called 
him the "father of Top Forty Radio."
Anyhow, I han't been out of my trailer 
house in a week now. There's a permanent 
oil slick on top of my T.V. where the fried- 
chicken box leaks. My Lazy Boy recliner is 
locked in stretch position. Ever' once in a 
while my friends come by to check on me, 
slide some Beenie Weenies under the door, 
but I can't even sniff 'em anymore.
I couldn't face it, the shame of it, the drive- 
in ignorance confronting this country today. 
BI brooded about it. I sniffled a little. I rolled 
n it around in my brain. I undressed it. I drew 
|§ some grafitti on it. I spray-painted a happy 
M face on top of it. I snorted it. I free-based it.
And then I finally did it.
I I called up Clete Tankersley and told him 
H to come on out and install a 480-inch, 748-
3 channel "Mr. Marian" backyard satellite dish.
II don't know why. I guess I had to have 
¡¡¡something to do in my time of mourning. I 
m wanted to be alone on my sofa with a lot of
nekkid women. I wanted to se what all the 
Babtists out in the boonies are watchin' ever' 
night on satellite so they can demand their 
removal from dirty bookstores. I did the
commercial thing. I sold out. I went Video.
It took Clete three days just to pour the 
concrete foundation for the dish, and as soon as 
we turned it on three kids had to go to the 
emergency room for minor brain lesions. (I got 
the model that picks up Cuban talk shows and 
Yugoslavian tractor demonstrations.) Then we 
hooked it up to my nine-year programmable 
Very Cosmic Recorder and started poppin' in 
plastic boxes and starin' at the screen and 
sayin', "That's boring."
Then we plugged it in.
I hadn't had a feelin' like this since 1957, 
when Dede Wilks rearranged my beads in the 
Valhalla Drive-In outside Sudan, Texas. Drive- 
in movies that were banned in Texas for 15, 20 
years were available in little plastic boxes that 
you had to pay money for but I get free 'cause I 
just call up people and say, "I'm Joe Bob 
Briggs and I'd like to abuse my privileges as a 
famous movie critic by demandin' you send 
over a copy of Bloodsuckin' Freaks so I can 
look at it." It's great. You can watch this stuff 
and never leave the trailer. It's unreal.
The first week I watched 46 drive-in classics 
that've been shrunk up and put in little plastic 
boxes. Here's the ones I recommend as true 
drive-in material.
1. I Spit on Your Grave: This flick isTake one look at this photo and it's easy 
considered "the most disgusting movie evermind about video 
made" by Ebert the Wimp and Siskel the Simp, 
who went on T.V. for two, three years telling 
everbody that it makes men want to rape 
women, which is why the theaters quit runnin' 
it. But it's the most feminist drive-in movie 
ever made. The most likely thing that'll happen 
after a man watches this flick—'Specially the 
bathtub scene—is he won't be able to walk 
straight for a week. A combination of 
Deliverance, Death Wish, and Straw Dogs, this 
one has the second best title of the 70's (best is
to see why Joe Bob changed his
The Texas Chainsaw Massacre) and is a 
category all unto its ownself. Camille 
Keaton, Eron Tabor and Richard Pace all 
give Drive-In Academy Award 
performances, but 'specially Eron Tabor, 
who is the finest crudhead slimeball 
woman-hater ever portrayed on the big 
screen. The speech this guy gives about 
why it was necessary for him to rape 
Camille is a classic, and Meir
Zarchi—one of these directors who is 
world renowned for just one movie, this 
one—develops ever' single scene so that, 
even though you already sorta know 
what's gonna happen, you're always 
surprised by what really does happen. 
Also has the best ad line in history: 
"This woman just chopped, burned, 
maimed and mutilated four men beyond continued on page D8
THE BOLVIAN CONNECTION
Finest Pure Alpaca Sweaters 
And Accessories 
Available At Rock Bottom Prices I
0
S top by and sample some style 
in Skibo Hall
ON
Tuesday October 7 
and 
Friday October 10,1986 
from 9am until 6pm
Freshmen, Sophmores, and Juniors:
s?(
&
oc»’
FOR:
DUE:IN:
Students majoring or double majoring in Industrial Management or Economics Monday October 13,1986 GSIA Room 206 (IM/Econ Office)
in Squirrel Hill
Steak Subs - Burgers - Pizza
Freshmen, Sophmores, and Juniors may submit a 1 page resume to be distributed at the BOC.
Dinner Late Bites Kitchen open until lam
Shuffleboard • Darts
• Tall Texas Drafts
2701 Murray Avenue 
Near Poli's
• Video 
Imports
3pm to 2am 
422-5360
Mark your calendar for Monday November 17, the day of the Business Opportunities Conference (BOC) to be held in Skibo Ballroom.

---------------------------------------------------

Junior Rep brings home the big laughs
acting. The performers help the 2V2 hours 
pass quickly and easily.
You have to be impressed that they could 
put up a show so swiftly, but some things 
lack of time can not fogive. Director Chas 
Rader-Shieber delighted audiences with 
touches of wit in creative entrances and 
exits, but failed to come through in the 
content of many scenes. Too many times we 
wondered whether we were in 17^ centrury 
Europe or back on CMU in 1986. Lines like 
"Where beith my wife? What the F—!"
page with more than messages on his mind. 
Jordan Lee Williams also helped bring the 
scenes together with his brilliant 
mannerisms and authentic but comical 
accent.
Though the play lossed the essence of the 
period, the talent it housed made it 
memorable, sometimes hillarious, and 
always enjoyable. It was well worth the 
price of the ticket. A good laugh is a bargin 
at any price
Joe Bob's Video Reviewcontinued from page D7
recognition—and no jury in the world would 
convict her." A 94 on the Vomit Meter. 
Screenwriting Hall of Fame, for the 
following line, "Total submission. That’s 
what I like in a woman. Total submission." 
Best Drive-In Picture 1978. Four stars. Only 
on video.
2. Sybil Danning's Adventure Video: This 
is a bunch of drive-in movies with ripaway 
bra queen Sybil Danning stuck on the front 
end of ’em, and usually Sybil is the only 
decent thing to look at on the whole reel. 
One exception: Fast Money, the ultimate 
dope-deal movie, made in Austin in 1981 for 
about 50 cents, never seen in theaters, 
featuring an incridible gonzo acidhead 
performance by Lou Perry, recently seen as 
the dead-but-still-blubberin’ radio station 
engineer in Saw 2. Only on video.
3. She Devils on Wheels: Hard-to-fmd 
1968 classic about a female biker gang called 
the Man-Eaters, who wear pink pussycats 
with bow ties on their leather jackets and 
have a daily race to see who gets first pick 
from the "stud line." This bothers the 
sensitive new recruit, Karen, who says, "We 
treat men like they’re slabs of meat, hanging 
on a rack at a butcher shop," and she thinks 
about running away to be married. 
Especially fine performance by 300-pound 
Miami biker Pat Poston, who screams, "Up 
your Magic Dragon!" when she’s not 
terrorizing small towns by sweeping past 
small children on her bike and stealing their 
snow cones. By the neglected master, 
Herschell Gordon Lewis, the Chicago genius 
who made the first explicit-gore flick, Blood 
Feast, in 1962. Only on video.
Joe Bob says check 'em out.
Elvis Costello stars in new movie
On Wednesday, October 1, Filmmakers at 
the Fulton opens Peter Smith's No 
Surrender, the latest in a series of cinematic 
successes from Great Britain (e.g., Room 
With a View, My Beautiful Laundrette, 
Mona Lisa, Letter to Brezhnev ). From 
October 1 through October 12, No Surrender 
will be shown Wednesday through Friday at 
6:30 and 8:30 p.m.; Saturdays at 7:30 and 
9:30 p.m.; and Sundays at 3:00, 6:00, and 
8:00 p.m. General admission is $4.00; 
admission for members and students of 
Pittsburgh Filmmakers, senior citizens and 
children under 12 is $2.50.
No Surrender is a Mack comedy set in die 
Charlston Club in Liverpool, England. As a 
last, spite joke, the club's ex-manager has 
booked three groups of old-age pensioners
for New Year’s Eve. One is Irish-Catholic, 
one is from the Protestant, staunchly 
Loyalist Irish Orange Lodge, and one is 
simply spastic and senile. These senior 
citizens are spitefully alive and brimming 
with colorful resentments. To make matters 
worse, the ex-manager has asked the 
Catholics to dress for a costume ball (which 
they obligingly do) and booked at punk 
band, a bad comic and a walking nervous 
breakdown of a magician played by Elvis 
Costello.
Filmmakers at the Fulton is a project of 
Pittsburgh Filmmakers in cooperation with 
the Pittsburgh Trust for Cultural Resources. 
The Fulton Theatre is located at the 
intersection of Sixth Street and Fort 
Duquesne Boulevard, downtown.
WRCT TOP NINE
1) Gargolyle SoxHeadless Horsemen2) Sonic Youth12-inch
3) Executive Slacks Fire&Ice
4)Squinel Bait
5) Volcano Suns7-inchAll Night Lotus Party
6) Scratch AcidJust Keep Eating7) Ciccone Youth7-inch
8) Bad Brains7-inch
9) Love&RocketsEnjoy
\The
Marriage\ ofFigaro
By CHRISTOPHER GARCIA
Tartan Ghost Theatre Critic
Last Wednesday evening in the 
experimental theater, the junior repetory 
gave it's performance of Beaumarchias’s The 
Marriage of Figaro. Although the play only 
had a week's worth of preperation, it offered 
all the enjoyment of a full scale production. 
The 6*6 (Six plays in Six weeks) company 
chose a fine play to work with and then 
added to its merrit with lively and energetic
broke the atmospere and reminded us that it 
was only a show given by some college 
students.
Despite the momentary unprofessionalisin 
the show as a whole often broke the audience 
into open laughter. Bruce Faulk delivered 
crushing lines that sent many into throes 
Nicola Stimac fought bad casting to shine as 
the perverted adolescent Churubin. Many 
times I was convinced that she was the
Oct. 5 Zdenek Macal conducts Beethoven, Mozart,
Prokofiev and Respighi; Alicia de Larrocha, pianist.
Oct. 19 Adam Fischer conducts Berio, Bartók and Kodaly; 
Katia and Marielle Labeque, pianists.
Nov. 30 Charles Dutoit conducts Mozart, Liszt and 
Stravinsky; Hai-Kyung Suh, pianist.
Jan. 25 Michael Tilson Thomas conducts Sibelius and 
Rachmaninov; Cho-Liang Lin, violinist.
Feb. 8 Michael Lankester conducts Shubert,
Ellen Taaffe Zwilich and Tchaikovsky;
Marc-Andre Hamelin, pianist.
Feb. 22 David Zinman conducts Dvorak and Elgar;
Shlomo Mintz, violinist.
Mar. 15 Christoph Eschenbach conducts Schumann and 
Dvorak; Justus Frantz, pianist.
Concerts JESSok All major credit cards
begin at 2:30 vvvSVvv accepted. To order
THE PITTSBURGH «« /¦ 0^1symphony call (412) 392-4821
Mozart Joins Weekend
Class.
Just what is Weekend Class? 
Relax, it's not more school. 
It's a chance to enjoy the 
Pittsburgh Symphony at unbeliev­
able student discounts. Mozart 
is just one of the music masters 
we've lined up this season 
to make Weekend Class a 
memorable experience.
TAKE
THE
MUSIC
CURE.
7 Sunday 
Afternoon 
Concerts at 
Heinz Hall 
for only $28
Now, for $28 you can sub­
scribe to 7 Sunday after­
noon concerts hand 
picked to fit your 
Fall and Spring 
semesters. That's 
only $4.00 a 
concert.
For even more 
enjoyment, call 
392-4821 and ask 
about our 12-concert 
Sunday afternoon or 
Friday evening series 
for only $72, or 
24 Friday evening 
concerts for $96.

---------------------------------------------------

Page Dll—The Tartan—October 7,1986
Dance Alloy begins season on October 24th
PITTSBURGH: The Pittsburgh Dance 
Alloy opens its Tenth Anniversary
celebration with performances on October 14 25 and 26 at the Eddy Theatre on the 
Chatham College campus. The October 
rformances will feature the premiere of 
works by distinguished guest choreographers 
Catlin Cobb, Sam Costa, Stephen Koester, 
and Alloy Artistic Director Elsa Limbach.
Catlin Cobb is a 1985 recipient of a 
choreography fellowship from the National 
Endowment for the Arts and is listed in the 
distinguished roster of Affiliate Artists, the 
nation's leading producer of residencies for 
performing solo artists of all disciplines. 
Ms. Cobb's new work to be performed by 
the Alloy, House of Drawn Shades, evokes 
the imagery of a dream-like state. Ordinary 
events become extrordinary and many 
elements of surprise are present. Ms. Cobb 
collaborated with sound engineer and 
composer Brooks Williams to produce the 
accompanying sound collage.
Guest choreographer Sam Costa grew up in 
Ellwood City, near Pittsburgh, and became 
interested in modem dance while a member 
of the Cornell University football team. His 
subsequent career has included extensive 
choreography and performance experience. 
Mr. Costa resides in Portland, Maine, where 
for many years he was Artistic Director of 
Ram Island Dance Company. In this 
collaboration with the Alloy, Costa will set 
his recent piece, Working, for the company's 
three men, Scott Timm, Danny 
Cunningham, and Bernard DeLucAntonio. 
Working was inspired by Costa's
Classifieds
Needed: help with High Holyday
Services, whatever your skills are or 
whatever part you wish to take , please call 
Rabbi Joe, 621-8875.
SECRETARY Oakland lab needs half- 
time secretary, mon-fri 11:00-3:00 work 
inclds. WP, IBM-PC, filing, record keeping. 
Enjoyalbe place to work. Call 11:30-2:00, 
Ruth or Beth, 687-1440.
$60.00 PER HUNDRED PAID for
remailing letters from home! Send Self- 
addressed stamped envelope for envelope for 
information/application. Associates, Box 95- 
B, RoseUe, NJ 07203
WORD PROCESSING by Professional 
Typist—discount to college
students—will pick up and deliver, 
24 hour answering center call 653-
2426.
relationship with two friends, each man 
going his separate way during the week and 
reuniting on weekends. Set music of 
Thelonius Monk, this piece depicts a blue 
collar work ethic, interspersed with 
playfulness and light comedy.
Stephen Koester is co-director of 
CreachlKoester, Two Men; A Repertory of 
Solos and Duets. Together, they have created 
a unique blend of theatricality, athleticism, 
and physical abandonment. Creach and 
Koester perform regularly in New York City 
and on tour in Eastern United States. 
Koester's work is frequently commissioned 
by numerous companies and college dance 
programs.
Chain of Wooded Mountains is a personal 
recollection of the many images and 
sensations experienced by Alloy Artistic 
Director Elsa Limbach during her 1983 trip 
to Bulgaria and Greece. Together, Ms. 
Limbach and her husband, Andrew Blasko, at 
that time a student at Sofia University, 
explored Classical and Byzantine ruins, 
village culture, and varied terrain from the 
Peloponnisos to the Black Sea. The 
resulting dance combines traditional folk 
melodies with a movement vocabulary that 
draws obliquely from traditional dance forms. 
Rather than restate the old idiom, Ms. 
Limbach evokes a well-traveled land where 
myth, humor, and harsh reality stand side by 
side.
For tickets or information concerning this 
performance, contact the Pittsburgh Dance 
Alloy, 120 South Whitfield Street, 
Pittsburgh, PA 15206, (412) 361-4414. -
Guitar Lessons- All styles: Jazz, Blues,
Folk, Rock, Beginning to Advanced. Also 
Improvisation and Music Theory call Hank 
242-8147.
Fiber Artists — YARN, 80 lbs. all 
kinds and colors. Bolts from Carlisle Mills. 
Best offer. Call 343-4894 daytime or 
evening.
Apartment for Rent: Highland Park:
clean one bedroom apartment, very nice area; 
quiet for studying. 1 month free rent. Call 
824-9297/Glenn Puntil. Graduate students 
only.
Student papers, resumes and cover 
letters. Two word processors for prompt 
service work picked up or returned to Oakland 
Mondays and Thursdays. Call for details. 
0 Betty - Seton Secretarial Service, 793-5804 
WORK AT THE ORIGINAL HOT DOG 
SHOP 3 to 4 students wanted for part time 
work. 11:00am-2:00pm 5 days/week, 15
hours/week, call Sid or Mo at 621-1185.
Due to the Mid-Semester 
Holiday, The Tartan will not 
appear next week.
! Thi|:®oar<Ì'atìdl Staff wish thè 
Students of¡5$fàl[(oops, we i| 
' mean CM)|i,' a good» break |
Watch for "Uncle Albrecht’s Sure-fire 
Hangover Cures" in our next issue, 
hitting the newstands October 21.
Now... Two Pregnancy Testing Locations
Oakland
Room 212
Park vale Plaza Buildings 
3520 Fbrbes Ave. (oor. Meyran) 
Pittsburgh, PA 15213 
(412)683-3730
Downtown
107 Sixth Street 
300 Pulton Building 
Pittsburgh, PA 15222 
(412) 562-1900
Women’s 
Health Services.
Free pregnancy testing daily. Call for hours and instructions. Abortion services and confidential counseling available.
Qateway to London and 'Bavond
ITHACA COLLEGE 
London Center
¦ SEMESTER OR YEAR PROGRAM 
¦ ITHACA COLLEGE CREDIT 
¦ BRITISH FACULTY
Leam about British and European 
cultures through courses in literature, history, business, music, 
sociology, communications, 
politics, and much more. Special program offered in Drama.
Internships available to qualified gae 
students in international business, | 
social services, communications, * '
political science, and economics.
Visits to the theatre, 
museums, galleries, 
schools, social and 
political institutions are 
an integral part ot the 
curriculum
For further in harm Hon 
wittr
International Programs 
-SP 
Ithaca College 
Ithaca. New York 14850
Cuts
r
I
I
$14416Mon.-Fri. 9-9 
Sat. 9-5 Sun. 12-5 
COUPON « — _ _ .SAVE!
$4.00 off Haircuts
_ $10.00 off Perms/Complete(regularly $44)Offer good Mon, Tues, Thurs Only Expires 10/31/86 “ Must Present Coupon ¦¦ mm JLewis’
813 S. Aiken Avenue • Shadyside 
682-4063
PLAN HOLIDAY 
TRAVEL
ARRANGEMENTS NOW 
TO AVOID 
DISAPPOINTMENT!
FORBES
TRAVEL
CMU DIRECT 
EXT. 2999
OR
521-7300
Futep SaleManufactured: Carlisle Mattress Factory 5116 Penn Ave. Pgh, PA 15224 Call 661-6499 (9am-4pm)
Oriental Mattress Light weight, easily packed up for moving and storage Perfect for apts, dorms, whereever space is limited
DEMO STUDIOQuality Pecardng You Can Afford
JACK PWIN
1052 FranWn Drive Bethel Park. PA 15102 (412)8-354398
Bestperforming scooter for its size.
gl V
The Yamaha Riva Jog is 
the highest performing 
50cc scooter made.
Plus, you get to go 
in style. The Jog looks 
great with bright bold 
colors for ’86.
And, it gets great gas 
mileage. But who says 
economical has to mean 
uncomfortable. The Jog 
offers comfortable seat­
ing with a wide step- 
through floorboard 
to boot.
The Riva Jog has a lot 
of other features to offer, 
including automatic 
transmission, electric 
start and a complete line 
of accessory items. And 
we have a lot of other 
Yamaha Riva models to 
choose from.
So, come in today. It 
costs nothing to look, 
and not much more 
to own.
Bob Tracy's 
World of Cycles 
8070 Ohio River B1 
766-9211

---------------------------------------------------

Page D12—The Tartan—October 7, 1986
Announcements
Richard M. Cyert will have open office 
hours for students between 3 pm and 5 pm on 
Friday, October 10, in his office, 602 Warner 
Hall. Students who wish to meet with the 
president should telephone his secretary at 
268-2200 to set up an appointment.
Library Schedule: Hunt Library: Monday -
Thursday, 8 am - 3 am; Friday, 8 am - 
midnight; Saturday, 9 am - midnight; 
Sunday, noon - 3 am.
Engineering and Science Library: Monday -
Thursday, 8 am - midnight; Friday, 8 am - 6 
pm: Saturday, 9 am - 9 pm; Sunday, 10 am - 
midnight.
Mellon Institute Library: Monday - Friday, 
8:30 am - 5 pm; Saturday and Sunday, closed.
Audio-Visual Services: Monday - Thursday,
8:30 am - 11 pm; Friday, 8:30 am - 5 pm; 
Saturday, noon - 5 pm; Sunday, noon - 11 
pm.
The Roman Catholic Chaplaincy
celebrates mass on campus at 12:30 pm, 
Monday through Friday in Skibo room 39; 7 
pm, Saturdays and 10:30 am, Sundays in the 
Graduate School of Industrial Administration 
Auditorium. A solemn mass is celebrated at 
noon on Sundays in Heinz Chapel. For more 
information call 681-3181.
Buhl Science Center. 'The Violent 
Universe." Veteran film actor Vincent Price 
takes audiences on a grand tour of "things 
that go bump in the night," the turbulent and 
dynamic activity of the universe in a 
seemingly tranquil starry night sky. Explore 
solar lasers, nova and supernova, the Milky 
Way's violent explosions and possible black 
hole and the Big Bang -- the fiery birth of 
the universe itself at 2 pm, Monday through 
Friday; 11 am, 2 pm and 4:15 pm, Saturday; 
and 2 pm and 4 pm, Sunday, through 
November 18.
Laserium. Journey to an energetic and 
colorful world where blazing lights and 
magical images glow and gyrate to music by 
rock's most spectacular artists in Laserium, 
presented live under the stars at 8 pm and 
9:15 pm, Thursday through Sunday; and 3 
pm, Saturday. For current concerts call 321- 
5554.
"Color," nineteen do-it-yourself modules 
explore the mysteries behind everyday color 
phenomena. Permanent exhibit at 1 pm - 5 
pm, Sunday through Thursday; 1 pm - 9:30 
pm, Friday; and 10 am - 5 pm, Saturday. For 
more information call 321-4300.
"Bio Corner," interact with newly-hatched 
chicks and ducklings — new ones hatching 
weekly. Permanent exhibit at 1 pm - 5 pm, 
Sunday through Thursday; 1 pm - 9:30 pm, 
Friday; and 10 am - 5 pm, Saturday. For more 
information call 321-4300.
"Image Imagination," hands-on modules 
explore amazing images -- let your 
imagination run wild. Permanent exhibit at 1 
pm - 5 pm, Sunday through Thursday; 1 pm - 
9:30 pm, Friday; and 10 am - 5 pm, 
Saturday. For more information call 321- 
4300.
"Foucault Pendulum," displays proof of 
Earth's rotation. Permanent exhibit at 1 pm - 
5 pm, Sunday through Thursday; 1 pm - 9:30 
pm, Friday; and 10 am - 5 pm, Saturday. For 
more information call 32M300.
Pittsburgh Playhouse Jr. Children's 
Theatre. Jack and the Beanstalk. Do you 
know what A-D-V-E-N-T-U-R-E spells? Well, 
that's what happens to Jack when he climbs 
the beanstalk! See Jack battle the Giant! See 
the Giant's wacky wife! See the living Harp 
that comes to Jack's aid! It's high flying 
adventure with a lot of surprises at 11 am and 
2:30 pm, Saturdays; and 2:30 pm, Sundays, 
October 4 through November 16.
Next Week in DH 2210:
Thursday: West Side Story 
6, 8:30, & 11 
Friday: Back To School 
6, 8,10, & 12 
Saturday: Ruthless People 
6, 8, 10, & 12 
Sunday: The Gods Must Be
Crazy; 6, 8, 10, & 12
Events
Tuesday
Movies
The Maltese Falcon, starring Humphrey 
Bogart, Mary Astor, Peter Lorre and Sydney 
Greenstreet. Bogie as the supreme private 
eye Sam Spade in this Dashiell Hammett 
thriller. Huston's first film. They don't make 
them any better than this one. Pittsburgh 
Playhouse at 7:30 pm and 9:30 pm. 
Admission $2.95.* * >. | Lectures
Department of Chemical Engineering 
Seminar. Professor John C. Heydweiller, 
Syracuse University, speaks on "Adaptive 
Polynomial Approximations for Process 
Design" at 11 am in DH 1112. Coffee and 
doughnuts are served at 10:45 am in 
Conference Room, DH 1102.
Workshops
Career Library Tips. Learn "real world" 
information that can help you with your 
career choice and get inside tips on 
identifying and researching job leads at 5 pm 
in Warner Hall, room 19.
Special Events
French Table. The Modem Languages 
Program sponsors a French Language table at 
11:30 am in the Morewood Dining Hall.
Wednesday
Movies
Notorious, starring Cary Gran, Ingrid 
Bergman and Claude Rains. Terrific 
espionage thriller set in South America during 
WWII. Bergman dazzles the eye. Watch for 
the famous key scene. Pittsburgh Playhouse 
at 7:30 pm and 9:30 pm. Admission $2.95.
Lectures
Carnegie Mellon Visiting Writers 
Series. Sharon Sheehe Starke, fiction, 
speaks at 8 pm in the
Adamson Wing, Baker Hall. For more 
information call x2850.
Workshops
Career Decision Making Series- Junior 
and Senior Section. A four-session seminar 
designed to help you assess your interests and 
abilities, explore current career interests as 
well as new ideas and form goals and 
strategies at 3:30 pm in Skibo room 112. 
Limited enrollment. Sign up at Career 
Services, x2064.
Independent Job Search. Campus
interviews are not meant to be your only job 
search strategy! Come learn where else you 
can distribute your resumes using want ads, 
informal contacts, address directories, walk-in 
visits and employment agencies at 11:30 pm 
in Skibo room 12.
Special Events
Spanish Table. The Modem Languages 
Program sponsors a Spanish Language table 
at 11:30 am in the Morewood Dining Hall.
Thursday
Movies
The Godfather, starring Robert Duvall, 
Diane Keaton, A1 Pacino, James Caan and 
Marlon Brando in one of his best roles. 
Great performances throughout. Oscars for 
Brando, screenplay and Best Piture. 
Pittsburgh Playhouse at 7:30 pm. Admission 
$2.95.
Around the World in 80 Days,
sponsored by AB Films. DH 2210 at 6 pm, 
8:30 pm and 11 pm. Admission $1.
Lectures
Bioengineering Graduate Seminar.
Dr. Robert S. McCuskey, Professor and 
Chairman of Anatomy, West Virgina 
University, speaks on "In Vivo Microscopic 
Studies of the Microvasculature of Organs" at 
12:30 pm in DH 1102. A light lunch is 
served at noon prior to the seminar and a 
question-and-answer session follows.
Department of Psychology
Colloquium. Dr. Carol Dweck, University 
of Hlinois, speaks at 4 pm in the Adamson 
Wing. Coffee is served before the lecture in 
the Psychology Lounge.
Dept, of Chemistry Coiloquim. Dr.
Hany Frank, University of Connecticut, 
speaks on "New Developments in 
Photosynthesis: Structure and Function of
the Reaction-Center and Light-Harvesting 
Proteins" at 3 pm in MI Conference Room. 
Coffee and doughnuts are served at 2:30 pm.
Special Events
German Table. The Modem Languages 
Program sponsors a German Language table at 
11:30 am in the Morewood Dining Hall.
Friday
Movies
Mephisto, starring Klaus Maria Brandauer. 
A film about an actor's rise to stardom in 
Berlin and his ambitions and ultimate moral 
defeat. Brandauer’s performance is worth the 
whole film. Excellent film. Pittsburgh 
Playhouse at 7:30 pm and 9:50 pm. 
Admission $2.95.
Shakespeare Wallah, starring Felicity 
Kendal. The magnificient sweep of post-war 
India is the backdrop for this love story 
about a rich, young Indian who becomes 
infatuated with a teenage English actress 
traveling with her parents' troupe of 
Shakespearian players. Carnegie Institute at 
8 pm. Admission $3.00.
101 Dalmatians, sponsored by AB Films. 
DH 2210 at 6 pm, 8 pm, 10 pm and 
midnight. Admission $1.
Lectures
Department of Anthropology
Colloquium, University of Pittsburgh. 
Rubie Watson speaks on "The Named and the 
Nameless: Gender and Person in Chinese
Society" at 3 pm in the Anthropology 
Lounge, Forbes Quad room 3D 10.
Saturday
Movies
Stop Making Sense. Excellent concert 
film featuring the group The Talking Heads 
singing 16 songs including "Burning Down 
the House." Pittsburgh Playhouse at 7:30 
pm, 9:30 pm and 11:30 pm. Admission 
$2.95.
Heavy Metal, sponsored by SDC Films. 
DH 2210 at 6 pm, 8 pm, 10 pm and 
midnight. Admission $1.
Sunday
Movies
Pride and Prejudice, starring Laurence 
Olivier, Greer Garson, Mary Boland, Edmund 
Gwenn and Edna May Oliver. Superb film 
version of Jane Austen's novel about five 
husband-hunting sisters in 19th Century 
England. Funny, charming and romantic. 
Pittsburgh Playhouse at 7:30 pm and 9:40 
pm. Admission $2.95.
Harold and Maude, sponsored by AB 
Films. DH 2210 at 6 pm, 8 pm, 10 pm and 
midnight. Admission $1.
Monday
Movies
Got Anything Going 
On????
Send it to Acme, c/o 
University Relations
Woman in the Dunes, starring Eiji Okada 
and Kyoko Kishida. A woman traps a man in 
a sand pit and makes him her prisoner in this 
engrossing film. Pittsburgh Playhouse at 
7:30 pm and 9:40 pm. Admission $2.95.
If you wish to place an announcement, 
miscellaneous item, or event in The 
Tartan, send it to ACME / University
Relations / Carnegie Mellon University /
Pittsburgh, PA 15213. Send it by campus
mail to the above address or drop it off at 
5017 Forbes Ave (The house between Delta 
Upsilon and ATO).
Please include the following information 
when submitting events: Title of event,
sponsor, brief description, location, date, and 
time. In addition, include the name and 
phone number of the person submitting the
entry; this information will be used only to 
confirm the event.
The Tartan is not responsible for the 
accuracy or validity of any Event listing. In 
addition, it reserves the right to edit or omit 
any listing for publication.
Classified ads are taken in our office, Skibo 
Rm 50, only, and will not be taken over thp 
phone.
All events are free of charge and open to the 
general CMU student population unless 
otherwise noted.
Deadline for ACME submissions is 
Wednesday at 5 pm for the next 
weeks issue.
TIRED OF
CULTURE?
Tired of trying to be in 
*he right place at the 
right time doing the 
right thing?
Then Joe Bob’s your man —
Drive-in Movie 
Critic--------
Watch for Joe Bob, the 
reactionary redneck 
renegade whose drive-in 
movie reviews and 
cultural criticism begin in 
this newspaper on
Joe Bob —
sure to offend some of the people some of the time.
21
€f 1985 Universal Pr#t* Syndicate
C
Thursday is TV Night at
Scotland Yard

---------------------------------------------------

LITERA TURE * DE S I G N
to
DOSË-A

---------------------------------------------------

David Ve“'
J&tison,

---------------------------------------------------

Nellie has clairvoyant dreams.
She dreamed the hurricane last fall
__West Virginia mountains dark in her sleep1
rumbling impending chaos.
Lately she's been dreaming earthquakes 
low. like thunder
under the streets of our small town
All of which I understood partly from her words
which lack final consonants,
open-ended
for her eyes to take up the rest.
Once she lay back on a plastic-coated couch fr(respite from the endless cycle of cleaning) f . 
one arm curved around her head. 
the other around her belly. 
an Odalisque
—but she was more like mountains, 
solid. Jp*'«Stroundly soft in a way that makes me suddenly hungry 
makes me want to burv -my face in her.
"M?:
Nellie told me I should stay here;
she would find a place for me when we leave the old house.
Bui those dreams that visit her 
are in the air;
it seems later in the summer than it isj^
The grapevi-ne crawls slowly down the fence toward the house, 
heavy with grapes (yet green);
the road at dusk is spotted brown with the blood of squirrels and toads 
and the windshield thick with insects.
If I stay any longer, 
my sleep
—a heavy thundercloud over this bed 
which has creaked the same since I was 
six years old— mL
will burst 
and I will be left
a shadow on the underside of summerif 
where all the ghosts who walk the hajj^ 
will line up to touch my face®*.-I^k f *with their soft, dry hands.
S ' \> Vv< 
¦ *¦?':> .-ivvr,
: V fr,. ¦¦
¦é'*¦fte¦
‘ iji>*-
W * .
L**r
t.-,
;• •. n • *•5;V^f?î\.V54; .-r - -
Anne-Marie Harvey c „ *
THE OCEAN IN PITTSBURGH
Once we stood on a hill at night.
You waved at the lights 
and said If that were the ocean... 
and I said If it were! 
listening suddenly to the Atlantic 
which always beats a soft tattoo 
against my mind.
I guess you were thinking of 
the sea at Bombay 
or whatever names that dark water 
behind your eyes.
The waves that rocked us against each other
as we slept
went unnamed;
as wordless as our breaths
that lapped to the edge of the sheet
and left us smooth,
inspired with memory,
like conchs.
Anne-Marie Harvey

---------------------------------------------------

When I was little
(I suppose I should say "younger")
I always used to cry
About the ending of the song "Puff the Magic Dragon"
I always would say
That if I had a dragon like Puff
I would never grow up and go away like Jackie Paper did 
I alway said I would never be too old 
--too "grown up"~
For childhood 
And fantasies
But I held on to childhood too tightly 
And the feelings
(the newness and wonder of 
colors, and sounds, of 
warmth and cold, the safety 
of Grandmom's arms, the 
sound of cicadas in the 
morning, the cinnamon on my 
toast, the hours spent 
playing with plastic boats 
-the kind that snap apart 
in two pieces—on the edge 
of the ocean, sandcrabs, the 
feeling of the wind from an 
electric fan on fresh 
sunburn, the smell of frying 
fish, and charcoal grills, 
and Coppertone...)
slipped through my fingers 
—Like mercury from a broken thermometer, or the color of 
ocean water that you can never see when it's cupped in 
your hands-Jj for Puff the Magic Dragon on a Summer's Day
I miss those feelings 
(I miss Puff)
I remember them
But I don't feel them anymore
Michael Drout

---------------------------------------------------

Jellyfish on the Edge of the Sea
like a dollop of unhardened crystal 
accidentally dropped onto the sand 
it slowly stiffens in the sun 
sand congealing into drying tissues
if it could see now
look out across the lowered horizon
the waves are scampering over the mud flats
rippling and slipping in the breeze
as the setting sun turns the light from white to yellow to
orange
-a purposeful creature
at the whim of the winds and tides
drifting through life without forsight of its destination
no prescience guides it
one day in the safe womb of the open sea
now unexpectedly dying on the sculptured sand of the shore
in the lowering sunlight 
the tiny snails
the carrion-fowl of the mud flat
congregate from afar
moving slowly and delicately
they reach the hardening edges of the melting crystal
and begin their feast
—a purpose-filled creature
with a past as convoluted as the water-channeled sand
its aimless, unknowing drifting
even in death has meaning
nourishing the tiny animals of the flat
creating an oasis in the wet desert
with the body it no longer needs
Michael DroutOasijn: Muy fr+NZ.

---------------------------------------------------

VNT
>»<*j*»’
,-«1»A
in*
Three months and he just shows up. Here? Naw,"Gutes Wochenende!"
Restrained voices let loose. Arms jerked struggling 
into sleeves, and backsides bumped into desks. Dulled 
eyes came to life with the hurried, clustered chatting.
The overabundance of desks as usual blocked the 
straight path from her habitual island by the window to 
the door. As usual she moved through the maze of desks 
around the kids who never spoke to her. Having enough 
time to fill up into her thin frame, she prepared to elbow 
her way past the incoming hurry spilling through the 
doorway. It hurt being that close to anyone, but she 
always succeeded unscathed into the gloomy hallway.
She paused, hoisting her black bag more comfortably 
onto her shoulder. Secuing her hat onto her mask of 
hair, she looked left down the hallway.
No. It’s not true.
She stared hard but only saw the crowd of voices 
hurrying down the sloping hallway-tunnel. But there 
had been a terribly familiar head and face. Yet it was far 
away. She changed her mind; turned around and aimed 
for the stone stairway. Halfway down, she stopped and 
found the hand rail. She took note that she was 
touching it. This was reality.
that's crazy.
I'm crazy. Could it be? No no no, this can't be true.
I'm hallucinating. I want it to be. I'm losing it.
She was entering her void and wanted to indulge it 
instead of taking the courage to fight it off. She 
maintained her grip on the rail and finished her trip down 
the stairs.
There at the end of the hall was a doorway leading to 
the freedom of the outdoors. Neck tight with unseeing 
eyes she determined her way down towards it. She was 
going to control herself until she could have her tears all 
to herself. Love hurt so bad..
Is this ever going to end? I don't understand. I 
WANT to understand. Is it him? No. When am I ever 
going to stop hoping? Such dumb torture and I can't 
shake it. He wouldn't come back to see me. I'm just a 
dumb loser of a school kid. How many more times will 
this happen? I'm almost interesting enough. Did you 
have faith in me? Is it you? Please please please. Ah 
shit, no.
A guy held the door for her.
She said, "Thanks."
"Sure." he replied.
The cold air shocked her. She lit up a cigarette and 
nodded to the girl in her psych class. She inhaled deeply 1 
and observed the latecomers. Hysteria had been stayed 
by a greater need to appear cooly rational.

---------------------------------------------------

tH**
**r'
¦mi
W*‘. **T:
¿I***
m*r*
***>#*r
**
0#*
Jtrt'
P*;#wr
i/kst
sY
.w*'
VJ*
~r*
_*¦**
*.**•#** **r *w »yer»« «wn» %*r»a«Hant»*»
I wonder when it’s going to happen? When’s my snap 
going to come? Right. There are ten minutes of 
happiness a day. Did I just miss my ten minutes? Ah, 
me. Why can’t you just write me; call me; anything; at 
least tell me that you hate me. Give me something.
You were my certainty in this pointless life. Shit, why 
can’t I totally embrace the unknown? I’m scared. I’m 
tired. Love's so much easier. Am I so worthless?
She walked heavily down the steps. The sun shone.
The snow in the street was slush and gray. She hunched 
into her jacket and braced herself against the steel mill 
breeze. With the cigarette crutch, she made for the 
virgin hill. The heels of her boots sunk firmly into the 
snow. This was reality. The hill was bright; it was 
open, clear.
She was now able to focus on her confussion in 
freedom from everyone but herself. The sky was her 
witness and didn't care.
This is so silly. Can he really be happy without me? 
Did these damn emotions scare you away? I don't want 
to be cold and normal. I thought you appreciated me; 
treasured me for that zaniness? Four years; one bed; a 
dead cat. Illusions. Did you really want it biyck also? I 
wish I could hate you. You were my raison d'etre, my 
inspiration, someone to perform for. I haven't the 
courage to grab it back. I don't want to. Where are you? 
Is it possible you're here?
Her mind shorted. Her self-indulgent grief swept 
through her body, cramping it into a tense ball. Then it 
passed away again. The hill was too open. She'd never 
learned how to let it all hang out. The cigarettte had 
fallen and the bag had slipped. She repositioned her 
books and surveyed the rest of the hill. Her trudged 
proceeded again through the sunny snow.
Ah shit. Someone's behind me. Figures he'd need to 
walk behind me when there's .. . it's him. It can't be. 
Just deluding myself again. Is this person ever going to 
pass me? Come on asshole, pass me.
Not wishing to appear concerned with being followed, 
she slowed her pace without looking behind her. She 
was scared of strangers. It took too much effort to play 
the game of normality. Ten paces later she had not be 
overtaken.
Is this a game? Am I in for a surprise? Damn, why 
don't you just rush up behind me and hide me in your 
chest? I can't stand this. I'm gonna be cool; nothing 
bothers me.
She stopped. Lighting a cigarette, she looked behind 
her.
There were two figures on the shining hill. Birds 
didn't sing, but the sun shone through the stinking air.
T. Meerman
db86
¿ft*

---------------------------------------------------

THE RIVER
A
My dad washed the car 
every Saturday. The run 
off from the hose raced 
along the curb— a swirling, 
gritty Nile for my plastic 
crocodiles, a water hole 
where gazelles, muscles frozen 
at attention, stared 
at orange lions 
with wide, painted eyes.
When the flow stopped 
and the river started 
to lose itself in dust,
I dredged dams out 
of mud, put predators 
and prey to work.
Side by side, shoulder to haunch, 
we fought to capture 
the day's moisture.
But even the elephants 
and hippos couldn’t shore 
up the banks fast enough.
The curb returned to desert. 
Hooves and claws ached 
for a soak in the washtub.
We'd have to keep 
living indoors.
Mark Carr

---------------------------------------------------

Mark Carr
‘ THE WIDOWER'S FIRST WINTER ALONE
In November he closed 
the basement window against 
cold earth, tacked plastic 
sheets over the pane.
When all warmth left 
the ground, hundreds were drawn 
under the sill, trapped 
beneath the plastic.
Potato bugs, spiders, centipedes 
scrabbled against the clear wall 
that molded around them, clutched 
like a living shroud.
Sometimes he pressed 
against the plastic, crunched 
down until gray-brown 
drops spread under his thumb.
He wanted to feel something 
give, wanted the pus 
of grief to burst 
like a spider's belly.
J-JIGHTCAP
When Carl punched in 
everyone on night turn 
could see he was dying 
for a drink. He rattled 
against his locker, fumbled 
with shoelaces— 
a machinist with the shakes 
would be more dagerous than one 
with a few drinks in him.
So Benny, who was known 
to down quite a bit himself, reached 
inside his locker and offered 
a jar—not knowing 
that the clear liquid wasn't 
vodka. When the solder flux 
started down Carl's throat, 
it was too late for him to do anything 
but clutch his stubbly neck 
and whine like a pigeon getting sucked 
into one of the plant's ceiling fans.
When they took Carl 
to the hospital, Benny didn't 
wait for the safety committee, 
didn't wait for a letter 
from the company. He just pulled 
his card from the rack and walked 
out, saying "That makes two 
drunks they lost tonight."
Mark Carr
Design'. Nina L. Schlack

---------------------------------------------------

<3~tandrnO
raiblew
Grandma Raibley had this weird kind of affectation. 
She carried around the top of a pineapple 
to throw at us kids when we were bad.
We'd swarm out of the Chevy Station Wagon—
Old Blue—looking like a midget platoon 
to make her life a living hell— 
put cake frosting handprints 
low on the kitchen wall.
We'd run around the yard 
and the house for a while, 
making havoc—
excavating dusty stuff in the basement.
When from nowhere—
and we never did know
how she always found us,
no matter how quiet our mischief was—
a green spikey thing would 
come flying right at me or 
my brother Ted's face.
It never failed that one of us would leave 
Grandma's with a bloody nose.
Bruce Stewart

---------------------------------------------------

v#
o'#
cí^ *&
s*
</X/Vs
///7^>^ <?v *^W**
# v> yyvu
jfP Sjfj' ¿r
sá &DoV
?

---------------------------------------------------



---------------------------------------------------

DOSirÁLITERA TUR
* * :
DE S
ÜMH
"’’Ps’9’s¦¦ 'ppiwl 
Dossier welcomes submissions from any student 
enrolled at Carnegie Mellon. All manuscripts must be 
typed. Please include your name, address, and phone 
number on a seperate cover sheet. Due to plagiarism 
laws, anonymous submissions and submissions under 
pseudonyms cannot be accepted. Submissions may be 
sent through campus mail to Dossier, c/o The Tartan, 
103 Skibo. or dropped off at the Tartan office, Skibo 
Room 50
Volume 8 Number 1 
October 7, 1986 
Editor: John Babich 
Assistant Editor: Pam Horn 
Art Director: Justin Miller 
Typesetting: Kathryn Sitter 
Staff: Curt Wohleber 
Margaret Martin
