¦ tartan
September 16, 1975 Volume 76 Number 2
this week
Tartans beat W&Jpage 13
Nashvill: Pro & Con. . . . page 8 
Dr. Cyert..........................Page 3
Crecine Takes On H & SS
by Laura Trask
Dr. John Patrick Crecine, a professor 
of Political Science and Sociology at the 
University of Michigan, has been chosen to 
be the new dean of H&SS, replacing 
Dr. Erwin Steinburg who resigned last 
year. Though he does not officially assume 
his post until January, Crecine will be on 
campus monthly between now and next 
semester.
Crecine, a ‘61 graduate of C-MU also 
received his Ph.D. from here. Since coming 
back to C-MU, he has been impressed by 
the “. .. High quality of the faculty and ad­
ministration. I find them intellectually 
stimulating . . : I’m also impressed by the 
fact that C-MU is still a place for innovative 
change.’
Dr. Crecine had many reasons for re­
turning to C-MU. He believes, “The chal­
lenge of being a part of the institution is
Bid For Center 
Lost By CMU
by Paul Bradley
Early this year CMU was approached by 
a group of 11 chemical and petrochemical 
companies, which included Dupont, 
Exxon, and Union Carbide, about locating 
a Chemical Industrial Institute of Toxi­
cology, CUT for short, in the Pittsburgh 
area. The companies were looking for a 
site with the following features: 1) it 
should enable them to start work as soon 
as possible, 2) it should have room for 
substantial expansion in the future, 3) it 
should enable them to draw upon the sup­
port facilities (such as computers) from a 
major university.
The site offered by CMU would have 
been either next to Mellon Institute, 
presently used as the Institute’s parking 
lot, or at Bushy Run, which already has a 
small research center run jointly by Union 
Carbide and CMU. The center itself would 
have been open to anyone with a toxico­
logy problem, be they a private person, 
government or another company. The 
center would have cost $10 million 
spread over a 5 year period, which would 
have been payed by the companies in­
volved.
Carnegie-Mellon’s interest was two 
fold: first they would have received a sub­
stantial income in the form of rent from 
the land, and secondly there would have 
been a great increase in the strength and 
breath of research which this center would 
have added to CMU. Unfortunately CMU 
lost out to the “Research Triangle’' of 
North Carolina, which is formed by the 
Universities of Duke, North Carolina and 
North Carolina State. The deciding fac­
tor, according to Dr. Richard Van Horn, 
CMU Vice President for business affairs, 
was that the companies wanted a less 
urban area, but with all the possible 
support facilities which the North t aro- 
lina site could offer.
great. Because of the end of the post-war 
baby boom, there will be fewer students 
within the next few years, but an over-sup­
ply of faculty members. Figuring out the 
way for C—MU to adapt represents a great 
problem.” When asked about the current 
trend towards “overenrollment,” he rep­
lied, “I’d rather deal with excess students 
than excess faculty. In the future, we will 
need creative ways of redistributing the 
teachers, as we have started to do this year 
in History and English.”
continued on page five
Student Senate MeetingPhotos by: Kathi Leichte
Senate Demands More from Clubs
by Claire Lee
Under the chairmanship of Larry 
Kurzweil, the Student Senate is beginning 
the school year with some basic goals in 
the planning. The main one will be an in­
tensive study into the Club situation on 
campus; the Senate has alloted approxi­
mately $100,000 to the clubs for this 
year’s budgets.
From what the Senate saw at the Activi­
ties Fair, Kurzweil states that the clubs 
have not put in enough time, energy and 
money to let the Freshmen know of their 
organizations. Some didn’t even have 
booths at the event. With a complete list 
of those that participated and those that 
didn’t, the Senate will hope to put “a little 
scare” into the clubs--the clubs will try 
harder to get student interact and partici-
Banner Wants Best in League
by Elly Zimmerman
James Banner was recently named the 
lew Athletic Director for C-MU. His 
qualifications seem appropriate. He re­
ceived an M.S. in Physical Education and 
Administration of Athletics from West 
Virginia University in 1961. In 1966 he 
became Head Track Coach at Pitt.
“Since I’ve arrived here action has 
been swift. I’m very happy about the 
ir^eptance I’ve had. I think we’re makinf
James Banner, New Athletic Director
headway,” Banner said when interviewed 
by the Tartan.
When asked about the football team and 
student apathy Mr. Banner replied, “Stu­
dent apathy can be discontinued very 
quickly with a few victories.” Commenting 
on a rumor circulating about the football 
team gaining national recognition he stat­
ed, “I think the goal for athletic <u 
Carnegie-Mellon is to try to be the best in 
the Presidential Conference wan *n eye 
to the future. I think if might take five 
to seven years to really bring the progran 
to that point. There’s a possibility of com­
peting with schools like Bucknell, Lehigh 
and Lafayette . . . schools that have very 
similar academic standards. As far as the 
national theme is concerned that requires a 
great amount of respurces.”
In his first two months as Athletic 
Director he has changed the swimming 
pool hours to more suitable times. The 
pool is now open from 11:30 to 1:20 
p.tn. Monday through Friday and 6:30 to 
8:30 p.m. weeknights. Sunday hours will 
soon he a reality because in approximately 
three weeks the gymnasium will be open 
on Sunday from 10 to 5p.m. Other changes 
include mercury vapor lights in the gym, 
installation of ventilation systems in the 
locker rooms, and a booster bus for the 
Thiel game.
While unable to answer where all the 
appropriations came from for the gymnasi­
um’s renovation, the new tennis court 
fences, and the overall increase in all 
athletic department budgets including 
intramurals, Banner did say, ‘Each of the 
areas has been improved. We’ve done what 
we could without over extending to any 
one program in particular. We re hoping 
that the additional resources will make 
better perform.'nces in intramural and
varsitv athletes.”One of the t equent complaints- last
year involved the condition of the hand­
ball courts. When asked if anything had 
been done to rect:fv the situation he 
stated, “No, there hasn'4 nut I big on
continued on page five
pation or else the ax may fall wher 
propose to the Senate their ‘7 b budgets in 
the latter part of this school year.
Another main objective of the Senate 
this year, as stated by Vice Chairman Keith 
MacDonald, will be to “reintegrate the 
Senate into the Student Body and the 
students back into the Senate.” For years 
students have felt they had no role in the 
Senate and, thus, a gap has grown between 
the two. Kurzweil hopes that all CMU stu­
dents will become involved in Student 
Government. To facilitate this wish, he is 
going to make committees “the main 
substance of Senate.” An advertising cam­
paign will be conducted soon concerning 
both Senate and committee meetings. All 
students will be invited to participate in 
these sessions and the activities. (Voting, 
however is limited to the Senators.) The 
Senate will strongly encourage the par­
ticipation of Freshmen since they are the 
“building blocks of the government” and 
of every student since, by his enrollment at 
CMU, he is automatically a non-voting 
member of Student Government.
The internal structure of the Senate is 
basically a source of optimism for the 
chairman. Kurzweil states that this will be 
the first Senate in which the members 
come frr>m the various CMU colleges. It 
currently has 39 members and 3 vacancies 
(one each in H&SS, SUPA and FA). The 
majority of the Senators are newly elected, 
Kurzweil is hopeful that they will have the 
ambition and desire to try new ways of 
solving problems instead of relying on 
traditional methods which have usually 
amounted to nothing. The Senate will 
probably meet bi-monthly since this will 
increase the probability that all, or at least 
most, of the Senators will be able to at­
tend.
Another factor in the Senate’s favor 
he fact that Larry feels that he and Doug 
Conopka (President of Student Govern­
ment) will work well together during the 
coming year. Konopka is also very confi­
dent about the Senate; he would like to see 
the Senate “getting involved in both aca­
demic and social issues” on campus. He 
will strongly urge this year that the Senate, 
UFO and SDC work more closely toget*- . 
than in previous years. This unity oi gov­
ernmental organizations will help realize 
many of the improvements and changes 
which the Student Government has in

---------------------------------------------------

Page 2—THE TARTAN—September 16, 1975
editor’s note
humor him.
Cyert feels that athletics attract students who normallytartanwouldn’t come to CMU, citing the case where a CMU profes­
sor’s children attended Bucknell because they offered aVolume 76September 16, 1975Number 2
comparable engineering degree in addition to a sport which 
CMU didn’t excel in. Cyert likes sports (“He is said to lose his
customary reserve at the ball park; he can converse as know-
legeably about the Pittsburgh Pirates 3s about the fineEditor in Chief
points of Management Science”) and it is going to take a lotGary Singer
more than pittling attendance at football games to convinceBusiness ManagerTom Kir land
him that our efforts would be better spent elsewhere.News Editor Charles Mitch
But even with this issue, where he is particularly obstinate,Entertainment Editor.Mark Chimsky 
Sports EditoriElly ZimmermanCyert offered the campus community the opportunity toPhotography Editor: Elliot Popowitz
prove to him that he was vjrong — that the interest in sports
didn’t warrant our continued participation. Although the sur­Staff Photographers Jonat 
ter, Dave Meeker , John Rovey was run by a sports.enthusiast, surpassed only by Cyert,
ian Eiten, 1 ¡in Fabian, Rick Frant^, Courtney l_arson, Cjregg Lebovit 
sä, Mark Segsl, Fred Shamlian, John Shcntel, Brian Smith, Jim Vlasir:
, Kathi i -Bien - 
Paul Wilfiams
and was one which employed an extremely inaccurate (and
thus distorted) sampling technique, the President did proveCopyrighted 197b by the C 
withold from publication Bi
arnegie -Mellon University TARTAN. The Editorial Bo>}rd reserves the 
ny copy it deems'unfit for publication. Funded by Student Governme
right to edit ot
his point that, “! may be pig-headed, but 1 do seek inputs.”Mellon University, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania 15213. Editorial Offices: Skibo 50; (41?) G21-?600 ext. 656.
The head of any large organization tends to become 
somewhat removed from those lower on the organizational 
chart, and so it is with a university president.
President Richard Cyert's busy schedule and varied re­
sponsibilities make him an obscure figure for most CMU stu­
dents. In addition, the mystique that follows such an office 
as the presidency tends to further remove Dr. -Cyert from the 
student and even faculty level.
By nature of their positions in student organizations and 
government, certain students do get the opportunity to meet 
the President on a somewhat regular basis. As editor of the 
TARTAN / have been included within this group and have, 
after a certain amount of official contact, formed opinions of 
CMU’s president that contrasts with some of the "street talk ” 
stereotypes that currently circulate.
What many students have attributed to Presidential in­
difference is, in my opinion, actually Presidential ignorance. 
An illustration concerns the three university owned co-op 
dormitories. During a meeting with student leaders, someone 
asked the President what the futue fate of the co-ops would 
be. Vice President for Business Affairs Richard Van Horn 
then briefed the President that the co-ops were essentially 
falling down since the university had viewed them as tem­
porary housing and had thus not done the proper main­
tenance on them. Van Horn further stated that the only way 
the co-ops would survive is if the university poured large 
sums of money into renovation.
Assuming the worse, most students present at this meeting 
were shocked when they heard President Cyert say "I think 
that those co-ops are a damn good idea, a good learning ex­
perience and that the university should do whatever is neces­
sary to maintain them. ” The same was true when the possi­
bility of a series of summer week-end orientation programs 
on campus were discussed, to which Dr. Cyert asked if it was 
too late to initiate such a plan this year.
Incidents like these indicate that Cyert is concerned with 
student interest and is willing to act on it. The problem, then, 
is for students to overcome their reluctance to discuss seem­
ingly “insignificant” matters and to take the President 
up on his invitation that his door is always open to interested 
students.
This brings us to an area where the President particularly 
excels, to the point of obsession: communication. Cyert is 
constantly concerned that the campus community under* 
stand what he is doing and that he not become completely 
removed from it. Reacting to a charge by then Student 
Government President Beverly Robinson that campus infor­
mation was hard to come by, Cyert initiated bi-weekly press 
conferences where the administration makes announcements 
and waits for questions about the latest in campus rumor. 
Cyert further requested space in the TARTAN where he or 
some other Administration official could discuss current 
issues. This, and his occassional live appearances on WRCT 
are part of the President’s sincere attempt to reach out to as 
many students as possible. His objectives.are commendable, 
although his manner, as in this week’s “View from Warner 
Hall”, tends to enforce an image that is already prevalent; 
that Cyert is a dry businessman concerned only with fi­
nances (an image with which / don’t concur).
Then there are certain issues with which the President has 
particularly strong biases, including the importance of ath­
letics: and it is in these areas that his subordinates seem to
letters
Editor:
I would like to take this oppor­
tunity to express to the sixty 
student organizations, the 
policies and goals of the student 
senate. These should not be 
considered threats, in essence we 
face no other moral alternative, 
to the student body than to en­
force them. For too long a time 
now, there have been subsidized 
by Senate funds and have made 
little attempt, if any, to recruit, 
new members and on the other 
hand optimize the efficiency of 
their organization. To begin this 
new school year the senate will 
take particular interest in those 
groups that advertise their activi­
ties and make concerted efforts 
for recruitment. The fall activi­
ties fair turned out to be an im­
pressive turnout; however only 
50% of the organizations 
attended.
We are making the opportunity 
for clubs to optimize their or: 
ganization. Starting September 
27, the first of three leadership 
modules entitled “organizational 
systems for student activities” 
will be held in conjunction with 
the Department of Student Ac­
tivities. These sessions are inten­
ded to aid organizations in their 
high attrition rate in leadership, 
and to promote motivation in
I recently transferred to ano­
ther university because I was not 
satisfied with the quality of 
education at CMU. While most 
of my instructors were excellent, 
the size of their classes made it 
hard for them to transcend 
mediocrity. A philosophy class 
of thirty-six students can be lit­
tle more than a group lecture si­
tuation. There are no opportuni­
ties for discussion in a “seminar” 
this large.
A math recitation class of over 
thirty members is subject to sim­
ilar limitations. The instructor 
bored one third of the class and 
confused another because he had 
to teach to the median level of 
comprehension. While approx­
imately ten students profited 
from this at least twenty suf­
fered. In a smaller class this pro­
blem would not be as serious, if 
it occured at all.
From my experiences, I can 
only conclude that the faculty- 
student ratio has not been reme­
died by increasing the number of 
students in each class. Of course, 
if there are other students who, 
like myself, thrive on small 
faculty-student ratios, the over­
population problem may not be 
in existence for long.
Name Witheld
Editor:
As a former student at Carne­
gie -Mellon, I am dismayed at 
the increase in enrollment this 
year. Dr. Cyert failed to explain 
why the university is faced with 
only two alternatives: maintain­
ing the “relatively low level” of 
students and firing faculty 
members or increasing the 
number of students and leaving 
the number of faculty members 
as it has been. Why would it be 
impossible to maintain both the 
“relatively low level” of students 
and the current number of facul­
ty members? Dr. Cyert implies 
that the preceeding situation en­
tails an unbalanced sutdent-fa- 
culty ratio; he solved this “pro­
blem” by enrolling more fresh­
men.
problem areas concerning 
management, recruitment, and 
structure.
The senate will take interest in 
those attending and along with a 
series of intensive studies, the 
senate will be able to make 
worthwhile evaluations of the 
student organizations that are 
being subsidized by the student 
activities fees.
Larry Kurzweil 
Chairperson, Student Senate

---------------------------------------------------

.news comment
THE TARTAN-September 16, 1975-Page 3
Enrollment and the Endowment:
V
$
»
V
%
Commencement 1975: 
“The Best Years of 
Their Lives. .
I will try my best to collapse 
four years into a few minutes 
and to combine hundreds of di­
verse points of view into one 
speech, in order to tell you, on 
behalf of the students, what it 
was like to attend CMU and 
what it’s like to be graduating 
today.
First, you ought to understand 
that we worked really, really, 
hard. College students are crazy. 
They will work themselves to 
death or mononucleosis, which­
ever comes first, skipping meals 
and skipping sleep in order to 
get assignments done. Particular­
ly during the week before a term 
project is due.
The all-nighter - the practice 
of working all day, all night, and 
all the next day without sleep - 
is an entrenched tradition here. 
The scenery varies with the stu­
dent - for the architect, it’s 
the drafting table, for the engi­
neer it’s the computer, for the 
dramat, it’s crew - but the all- 
nighter is our great common ex­
perience.
Of course, one of the reasons 
we had to work so hard the 
week before a project was due 
is that we had a lot of fun the 
rest of the time. There is more 
stereo equipment per square 
foot on a college campus than 
anywhere else outside a hi-fi 
store. We had some very good 
parties. And some of us spent 
countless hours working for the 
radio station, the yearbook, 
spring carnival, or the TARTAN.
Another aspect of student life 
you ought to keep in mind is the 
freedom. Students with good 
ideas and enthusiasm suprisingly 
often got the chance to try their 
ideas out. Students with bad 
ideas and enthusiasm often got 
the chance, too; and when they 
fell flat on their faces, there was 
usually a faculty member willing 
to help pick up the pieces.
Of course, we did complain a 
lot. No matter what they served 
us, we griped about the food. 
Also, we griped about the in­
visible wall that we helped the 
faculty erect, halfway between 
the blackboard and the front 
row of seats in. many lecture 
halls on campus. We complained 
about the quality of teaching, 
which to our disappointment 
was too often no better than we 
had come to expect in high 
school.
You should remember that a 
lot of us, right now, are won­
dering whether we are anachro­
nisms. Does the world want col­
lege graduates? The newspapers 
run articles titled, “The case a- 
gainst a college education. ” The 
announcer who used to run the
It’s Academic” TV quiz show 
back in my home city now 
makes commercials advertising 
an eight week data processing 
course. And this year, a lot of us 
will not get the jobs we spent 
four years preparing for. Some 
of us will hang our diplomas 
on the wall and then drive cabs, 
wait on tables, work as typists or 
bum around. We will be disap­
pointed.
Finally, you should know that 
as we face the real world out­
side, most of us are suddenly, 
for the first time, feeling very 
sentimental about this place.
Four years ago, I asked my 
parents why it made any big dif­
ference where I went to school.
“You find a lot of people,” 
they said, “who would never 
have admitted, back while they 
were still in school, that they 
liked it. But twenty-five years 
later, when those same people 
are complaining about their jobs, 
their mortgages, and their fu­
ture, they’ll tell you that the 
time they spent in college - ah, 
those were the best years of 
their lives. ”
Thank you.
Steven Correll 
Electrical Engineer, 1975
Editor’s Note: Steven Correll, 
former Editor in Chief of the 
TARTAN, is currently working 
for a large Computer and Tech­
nical Equipment Manufacuturer.
by David Demarest
The order came down in late July: “Everyone change offices. Now. 
Move.”
SUPA bumped the H&SS dean’s office out of Margaret Morrison 
(appropriating the furniture in the process).
The H&SS dean bumped the History Department from its up­
front Baker perch (over protests from the new dean, who had hoped for 
a gracious introduction to his faculty).
History bumped the Counseling Center (from space newly reno­
vated to suit its needs).
Couseling, moving to the first floor, bumped three English 
teachers (from quarters good for faculty, but, in the jargon of a CMU 
spaceman, “austere” for counseling).
The English teachers bumped, among others, several History 
graduate assistants, who left for parts unknown.
The marching orders came. “We’re being moved. You gotta go.” 
It was so graphic.
So geographic.
Power flowed from the top (the upper reaches of Warner Hall); 
SUPA —from its second floor bunker - pushed down on H&SS and 
expelled the dean; the dean’s office shoved History down the sloping 
halls of Baker, and literally - Counseling was dumped.
At the bottom of the line, dollies screamed through the corridors, 
secretaries hoisted cartons, and faculty huddled, bargaining for space.
In the enclaves of Baker Hall, Game Theory metaphors: Musical 
Chairs, Dominoes, or (the oldest one of all) Pushing People Around. 
A Three Dimensional Flow Chart.
It was Management Theater.
Reprinted from FOCUS Volume 4, No. 10. The publication of the 
faculty of Carnegie -Mellon University.
View from Warner Hall
In my first column in the TARTAN I discussed the increase in stu­
dent enrollment. There were two points that I neglected to make. The 
first one is that the increase in the student body was accomplished 
without any drop in quality, as measured by predicted grade factor. 
Secondly, I should have emphasized the fact that it is not possible to 
get precisely the size class that one desires. The reason is that all stu­
dents who are accepted do not decide to come. Our general percen­
tage of accepted students enrolling is at about the same level as most 
first-class institutions. However, the percentage does fluctuate so that it 
is always possible to get a larger or a smaller class than one desires. In 
our case, we did desire a larger class but we could not predict the pre­
cise number that we would get.
I know that many of you are interested in the scale of operations 
that we plan for this University. The question of scale has been under 
discussion for some time. One of the first committees that I appointed 
on becoming president was a committee on scale. We have had many 
useful comments from the committeee on scale, but clearly the com­
mittee cannot arrive at a decision setting the precise size we should be. 
That decision is a policy decision that must be made by the Board of 
Tustees. The problem resolves itself into a question of selecting one 
strategic alternative out of a number of possibilities. One alternative for 
us might be called the Caltech alternative. Under that system one has a 
realtively small student body and a correspondingly small size faculty. 
The aim is to tailor the faculty and student body to the size of the en­
dowment, The logic of this position is that the student tuition will pro­
bably never cover more than 50% of the total cost, and, therefore, the 
scale of operation should be adjusted so that the income coming from 
other sources, including endowment, will be more than ample to cover 
total expenses. There is an implicit assumption of a fixed endowment. 
This alternative obviously has some advantages. Such a decision tends 
to turn the University into more of a research institute and less of an 
educational institution. For faculty interested primarily in research, this 
alternative is obviously appealing.
The second alternative is one in which the student/faculty ratio in­
creases through a process of increasing the number of students. This al­
ternative is based on a starting point of something like our current 
faculty size of abolit 435. The idea is to increase the student body so 
that the combination of tuition, endowment income and other revenue 
sources will keep the University in fiscal balance.
Obviously, there are many possible alternatives with various sizes of 
endowment, faculty and student body. Increasing the endowment and 
thus the endowment income, requires less of a decrease in faculty size 
or less of an increase in student body or tuition or some combination of 
both.
The first alternative suffers from the fact that the process of con­
tracting the size of the faculty is a painful one. There are many dif­
ficulties in managing a contracting organization. There are significant 
problems of morale. The danger is that the good people leave and the 
University is weakened. The second disadvantage is that such a strategy 
minimizes the role of educational services produced by the University 
and puts more emphasis on the research side. A third disadvantage is 
that the facilities generally become significantly under utilized. I am 
thinking of classrooms, dormitories, academic buildings, and so on. It is 
perhaps a more comfortable approach to take for a president beacuse it 
is a way of achieving financial equilibrium without going through the 
agony of trying to raise more funds.
The second alternative has disadvantages as well as advantages, also. 
One disadvantage is the type that we are currently facing. There may 
have to be some crowding in dormitories and classrooms in order to
handle the increased student body. I think both these problems are 
manageable. For example, we might follow the path of many other ur­
ban universities and keep the dormitories for freshmen and sophmores. 
With some increases in teaching loads for faculty, we may be able to 
keep the class size small. We obviously do not want to begin to ap­
proach the size of the public universities. We must maintain a 
student/faculty ratio that is consistent with our desire to have close 
relationships between students and faculty. It is also clear that the 
second alternative requires a significant increase in endowment if the 
University is going to continue to improve itself academically and reach 
the heights of excellence desired by all of us. The second alternative 
places a great emphasis on the educational services as well as the re­
search services produced by the University.
I have mentioned only a few of the significant variables that must be 
examined as well as some of the advantages and disadvantages of each 
approach. To be honest, I must admit that I prefer something like the 
second alternative, assuming that the increase in the student body does 
not require more facilities or faculty. I feel that the disadvantages can 
be handled and the advantages are many. The second approach does 
require everyone to work a good deal harder. The president must spend 
more of his time raising outside money and the faculty must work 
harder at both teaching and research. In other words, the second alter­
native puts everyone under somewhat more pressure. Nevertheless, I 
favor that approach. I think it is the way in which we can make our 
maximum contribution to society. My mind is not closed on the issue, 
and I intend to participate in a large number of discussions with all in­
terested members of the CMU community on this topic during the 
coming year.
Richard M. Cyert 
President, Carnegie -Mellon University

---------------------------------------------------

Page 4—THE TAR TAN-Septem ber 16, 1975
announcements
WRCT needs a Business Manager. Contact
Dan Rosaen at 621-9728 or come to 
WRCT General Staff Meeting on Sept. 17 
at 7:30 in the Wherrett Room.
C-MU Women's Collective invites you to
our first meeting, 6:30 p.m., Thursday, 
September 18, I975, in the Wherett Room, 
Skibo. For all women and men. Refresh­
ments.
Prominent Pittsburgh obstetrician Robert
L. Fronduti, M.D. will discuss sexuality 
during and after pregnancy as part of the 
free Open House to be given by the Pitts­
burgh Organization for Childbirth Educa­
tion on Monday, September 22, at 8:00 
p.m. in the Community Room of South 
Hills Village. The primar/ purpose of this 
Open House is to provide information a- 
bout educated prepared childbirth through 
a panel discussion and the excellent child­
birth film, "The Story of Eric."
Information about POCE .classes and 
activities is available by writing P.O. Box 
I0480, Pittsburgh, Pa. I5234; or by calling 
22I-3066.
Volunteers are being sought by the Alle­
gheny County Chapter of the Pennsylvania 
Association for Retarded Citizens for their 
annual fall fund drive campaign.
Men and women interested in voluntee­
ring to help to raise vitally needed funds to 
continue and expand ACC-PARC's pro­
grams and services are asked to call Mrs. 
Jean Dawson, Fund Drive Coordinator, 
391-0187 or 322-6008.
The Oakland Review, Carnegie-Mellon's 
magazine of the arts, invites submissions of 
peotry, fiction, criticism, plays, essays, 
translations, and black and white artwork 
for the Spring, I976 issue. Submissions 
should be placed in our mailboxes in the 
English Department Office or at the Skibo 
Information Desk. Anyone interested in 
joining the staff is invited and should 
leave a note in the mailboxes.
Auditions • Anyone interested in audi­
tioning for Coffeehouse please leave name 
and number in Coffehouse mailbox at 
Skibo Information Desk. All talents wel­
come.
Designers! The Oakland Review needs
poster art. If interested, leave a note in our 
mailboxes, in the English Department 
Office or at the Skibo Information Desk. 
Coffeehouse * Fri. - Sept. 19 - Wherret
Room . Good music & refreshments FREE
9.00 p.m.
Anyone who missed the general A.B. meet­
ing and who's interested in working on 
Coffeehouse committee please leave name 
and number at Info. desk.
The Health Department has the vaccine
for flu inoculations. The same procedure 
as last year will be followed: go to the 
cashier's office and pay your dollar and 
bring.the slip to the Health Office for the 
inoculation.
Now that Enrollment Day has past and you
have ann opportunity to reflect on the ac­
tivities of the day, bring your evaluation of 
the new Enrollment system to a meeting 
on Thursday, September 18, between 2:00 
and 4:00 pm. The meeting will be held in 
the Warner Hall blue room.
The Human Sexuality Series will begin 
with 1 he Sexual Systems on Wednesday 
evening, September 24. The program will 
begin at 7 pm and will be held in Breed 
Hall, MMCC. 6escriptions of male and fe­
male internal and external genitalia as they 
relate to the reproductive phenomena, the 
essentials of genetics on reproduction will 
be d¡soused by Dr. David Archer from the 
Department of Obstetrics and Gynecology, 
University of Pittsburgh.
Parking permits will be distributed from
the Cashier's Office, Warner Hall between 
9:00 am and 4:00 pm according to the 
following schedule:
Tuesday, Sept 16. A through G
Wednesday, Sept. 17 H through N
Thursday, Sept. 18 O through Z
Friday, Sept. 19 Anyone who missed pre­
vious day.
Each permit holder from the preceding 
/ear should also bring their 74-75 parkard 
to exchange for the new card. A $2.00 fee 
will apply to all new applicants and those 
failing to return last year's card. 
As of Monday, September 22 rigorous en­
forcement of parking regulations will be in 
effect.
The Carneige-Mellon Fencing Club meets
regularly Thursday evenings 7:00 - 9:00 
pm Equipment available; Come and see if 
your like it. We meet in the women's gym. 
Peer Help is looking for persons interested
in training for the Peer Help Staff. If you 
are interested please drob by or call the 
Peer Help Center at BH 150; 621-9900.
Hatha Yoga - 7 - 9pm Monday and Tuesday
Multipurpose Room, Hunt Library. 
Philosophy and Exercises.
Engineering apd Public Affaris Happy Hour
Wed., Sept 17 4:30 pm in SCH 2325. All 
E&PA persons welcome. Interested Fresh­
men invited. Come and gef (re)acquainted 
Refreshments will be served.
SuPaul s Cathedral (Catholic), located just 
a few blocks eway at the corner of Fifth 
Ave and Craig Street has long been re­
nowned for its choir and the excellence of 
its music. The Choir would like to encour­
age gny student, faculty member or any 
other member of the Campus community 
who has had some choral experience and 
who likes to sing fine music to consider 
joining this volunteer group. Contact Mr. 
Paul Koch at 621-8525.
The Security Department would like to 
alert the community to the recent increase 
of bicycle thefts on campus. Unfortunate­
ly, all reported thefts have indicated 
that less than adequate locking devices 
were used to secure bicycles to parking 
racks and consequently were easily cut 
We suggest that bicycle owners consider 
substancial locking mechanisms, such as 
those available in the Bookstore. We feel 
that the use of these locking devices will 
greatly reduce incidents of bicycle thefts.
Attention: All Students who sold used
records through Entropy during the last 
school year. All old movies due and 
records, unless picked up before Sept. 20, 
I975 will become the property of Entropv. 
FELLOWSHIP DEADLINES APPROA- 
ching. Now is the time to apply for 
graduate fellowships for the academic year 
1976-77 if you are interested in any of the 
following: Churchill, Danforth, Fulbright, 
or Marshall. Information and applications 
are available in 207 Warner Hall. Make an 
appointment now with Dean Milligan if 
you are serious about entering any of these 
competitions.
These prestiguous fellowships as well 
as admission to most graduate schools 
require Graduate Record Examinations. If 
you have not taken them, you must do so 
on October 18, I975. The materials are 
available in the Office of Graduate Studies. 
Deadlines for returning applications are: 
Fulbright October 6,1975 
Danforth October 24,1975
Marshall October 22,1975
Churchill November 10,1975
Folk dancing • Friday nites at Thistle
Hall 7:30 - 10:30. A few dances are taught 
in the first hour.
Poetry Competition Offers $1500 Prize
A $1500 grand prize will be awarded in 
the current Poetry Competition sponsored 
by the World of Poetry, a monthly news­
letter for poets.
Poems of all styles and on any subject 
are eligible to compete for the grand prize 
or for 49 other cash or merchandise 
awards. Second place is $500.
Rules and offical entry forms are avail­
able by writing to: World of Poetry, 
801 Portola Dr., Dept. 211, San Francisco, 
Ca. 94127.
Contest closes November 30,1975
Administration & Management Science
students will meet in the GSIA Audi­
torium - 4:30 Tuesday afternoons in 
September, as follows:
Tuesday, September 16 Sophmore Class 
Tuesday, September 23 Junior Class 
Tuesday, September 30 Senior Class 
PHOTOGRAPHERS - There will be a 
meeting of the THISTLE photography 
staff on Wednesday, September 17, at 5 
in Room 33, Skibo. Everyone interested 
is invited to attend.
CLASSIFIEDS 
Kundalini Yoga Classes. Classes in exercise,
chanting, and meditation are now being 
held at Guru Ram Das Ashram, 6327 
Douglas Stree., Squirrel Hill. All are wel­
come regardless of Previous Experience. 
Classes are on Sunday, Tuesday and Thurs­
day nights at 7:30. For more information 
call 421-8791.
Earn up to $80.00 per month for 4 hours
of your time per week. Donate plasma at 
Sera-Tec Biological, 3407 Forbes Ave. 
(next to Arby's). Open 8:45 to 5:30 Mon­
day through Friday. 682-3190.
“Models needed for promotional campaign.
Earn excellent salary in spare-time. Exper­
ience unnecessary. Send phot and resume 
to A&R Associates P.O. Box 7220 Oakland 
Station Pgh., Pa. I52I3.”
Research Assistant Available. Hours Nego­
tiable. Salary negotiable. Experience: 
BA in History at CMU and Former Catalog 
Assistant and Page. Contact Ms. Mary Hall 
at 682-8548.
To whom it may concern. I Joe Orndoff,
hereby absolve myself of any connection 
with the H&SS SAC, and any or all bene­
fits or responsibilities, real or imagined 
entailed therein
Raleigh 10-speed Bike like-new condition
$115 call 621-4030 x514 evenings.
Large private room, bath and meals in ex­
change for help with cooking and house- 
work. Walking distance from campus. 
Single student or married couple. 621-8783 
evenings.
Photo by: Elliot Popowitz
Country Picker Earl Scruggs and his revue appeared this past Saturday on Flagstaff hill in a free 
concert sponsored by the CMU Activities Board and Pitt Programming. Also performing before the 
large crowd, unfettered by the chilling weather, was Grinderswitch and National Stew.
PAID VOLUNTEERS NEEDED... 
(Year Round)
Healthy, MALE volunteers, oge 21-30, 150-200 pounds, needed for Drug Testing 
Program on absorption rates of prescription medications. All Studies are conducted un­
der strict medical supervision.
Program involves blood samples drawn by skilled venipuncture technicians before 
and after medication is ingested.
— Physical Exams will be given each Thursday between 9:00 a.m. and 11:00 a.m. in 
Room 335, Hotel Webster Hall.
NiW volunteers will be given a free physical exam, including complete blood 
chemistries. Pay scale ranges from $50.00-$500.00 depending upon time requirements 
of the study.
.For Complete Defails, Please Call
BI0DECISI0N LABORATORIES, Inc.
Room 335, Webster Hall, 441 5 Fifth Avenue 
682-2022
Or Come Directly to the Physical Exam 
(PLEASE BRING PROOF OF AGE)

---------------------------------------------------

¦t ¦ t ar
THE TARTAN-September 16, 1975-Page 5
^Schatz Acting Dean of MIS
by Laura Trask
Dr. Edward Schatz, Vice President for 
Academic Affairs, Provost of Carnegie 
Institute of Technology, College of Fine 
Arts, and Mellon Institute of Science is 
"^serving as temporary dean of MIS as well. 
He has been the temporary head since July 
first, and hopes, “I’ll only be the acting 
dean a year.”
When Askel Bothner-by resigned as dean 
last year, Schatz formed a Search Commit­
tee to find a replacement. The Search 
committee is only in the preliminary stages 
^ of their work. “We’ve done a thorough 
^catalogueing of many proposed candidates. 
There are currently no search limitations. 
We are considering both people inside and 
outside Carnegie-Mellon.”
“There will be a few changes in the 
Search Committee,” said Dr. Schatz. “I 
would like to have some students on the 
committe when things become more crys- 
« tallized. Right now, we still have a long 
^ way to go.”
Dr. Schatz is very interested in the fu­
ture of research at MIS. “We’d like the new 
dean of MIS to be cooperative and helpful 
in the possible solutions of important prob­
lems: a person in applied sciences. We’d 
like the proper direction to deal with a few 
specific problems. For example, our new 
biology department is designed to concen- 
M trate on specific problems of cellular biolo­
gy in research. MIS could become involved 
in the problems of energy and pollution.” 
In the meantime, MIS is faced with a big 
•problem: the class of ‘79. “Most freshmen 
here at the university do take chemistry,
physics, computer science or math. As a 
result, the bulk of our teaching load is 
done for non-MIS students.” And Dr. 
Schatz also forsaw several long-range 
problems: decrease of funds from outside 
sources for research, and an eventual drop 
Tn enrollment ‘^h.D.s in science are having 
difficulty finding a job. Even now, there 
are slight decreases in graduate and under­
graduate science programs, although C-MU 
wasn’t badly affected this year.” 
r But, there have also been some changes 
for the better this year. “Large numbers of
Edward Schatz Photo by: Frank Stein
students are involved in self-paced courses.
And, just last semester we added the 
PLATO system. PLATO is new, exciting, 
and a very important computer system,” 
explained Dr. Schatz.
Ptioto by: Jonathan EiterOtto Davis of SUPA
Davis Named Dean of SUPA
by Laura Trask
Dr. Otto Davis has been named as the 
Dean of the School of Urban and Public 
Affairs, replacing Dr. William Cooper who 
resigned last year. A professor of Political 
Economics, Public Policies and Political 
Science since 1960 at C-MU, Dean Davis is 
returning after a year-long sabbatical • at 
the Center of Advanced Studies in the 
Behavioral Sciences near San Francisco.
SUPA was founded in 1968 by Dr. 
Cooper. It is a graduate school, offering 
courses leading to either a Master’s Degree 
or a Ph.D. “We train intelligent and inde­
pendent people for the public service, 
business, and governmental jobs,” explain­
ed Davis. “As there is a lack of trained 
people in these areas, we have had little 
placement problem.”
Davis’ main plan for the future will be 
to expand the programs. “In recent years, 
the size of the Master class has more than 
doubled, from twenty to fourty-two. I’d 
like to see the size grow as large as possible. 
Currently, we have ten in the Ph.D. pro­
gram. I’d also like to see an undergraduate 
SUPA^l hope some preliminary discussions 
will start on this later this year.”
Another concern of Davis’ is the famil­
iarity of C-MU. “The impact of C-MU, as 
an educational institution, can, through its 
students influence public policy. At the 
Center, I had an opportunity to meet peo- 
ple'from many different universities. C-MU 
has an excellent reputation in academia, 
but is not widely recognized publicly .” 
Until Dr. Crecine joins the staff full­
time in January, Davis will also serve as 
temporary dean of H&SS.
• H & ss
*
*
Sports
continued from page one
In the near future, H&SS will undergo 
several changes. “The assembly of H&SS 
is not yet completed. Social sciences are 
too ‘pieced together’ from SUPA and 
GSIA, as there is no real core oi socuu 
scientists in H&SS.” Dean Crecine hopes to 
recrui+ more social science faculty. He add­
ed that changes in the undergraduate 
curriculum would be made as more social 
sciences resources were available.
At the University of Michigan, he help­
ed to create a department like SUPA. He 
would like to work with SUPA whenever 
possi )le. “The natural development would 
be to have an undergraduate SUPA. To­
gether (H&SS and SUPA) we could have a - 
constructive, first-rate program.”
Above all, Dr. Crecine feels, “The sensi­
ble way of meeting future challenges is 
to rethink the purposes of higher education 
now.”
Dr. Steinburg, Crecine’s predecessor 
remains as a member of the H&SS faculty.
continued from pege one
lifetime sports such as golf, tennis, hand­
ball and racquetball. Sports that people 
can use in the future. The improvement 
of the facilities for lifetime sports will be 
of top priority.”
Another top priority of Banner’s is to 
protect the gym’s new floor at all costs. 
This may mean the Activities Board will 
have trouble obtaining the gym for special 
events and concerts unless special pre­
cautions are taken beforehand.
Banner also mentioned the possibility 
of having intramural football games sched­
uled on Sunday so the players could use 
the main football field. This would also 
increase the number of spectators at the 
eames.
AMERICAN FAMILY PLANNING
SERVICES 
LOCAL ABORTION & 
BIRTH CONTROL FACILITIES 
215-449-2006
FAST INEXPENSIVE 
PRINTING
cgiR BannerW
INSTANT PRINTING CENTER
98 Penn Circle West, Corner Penn Ave. E. Liberty 
(Ample Parking in Thorofare Parking Lot)
362-4445
REPORTS • RESUMES • CATALOGS • POSTERS 
LETTERHEADS • BUSINESS CARDS • FLYERS 
OFFICE FORMS • BOOKLETS • SCHEDULES
Page2—a THeE ARNSapRt
tjoii caw earn/ 
up to
80.00 per month 
as a jjfasma donor nt
SERA-TEC BIOLOGICAIS
onfij 4 hours per 
anci tpu- cm study
mtfourcdonati-nu
Prop biI and find out detniis at 
3iOJ forks live, (next to Clrßu's) 
or call :
66Z-3190
open' Mon. thru fri. 8'4^ m. to

---------------------------------------------------

Pape 6-THE TAR TAN-Septem ber 16,1975
Weight Loss Program Offered 
By Counseling Center
Motorcycle by Kawaski, immobilized by Security
Lot Users Are Threatened by CMU
Photo by: Mark Segai
On September 22, C-MU will begin rigid 
enforcement of its parking regulations. 
Beginning Monday morning, and at least 
twice daily thereafter, every vehicle parked 
on campus will be checked to insure that tf- 
has a valid C-MU permit. Vehicles parked 
in hazardous locations will immediately be 
towed from the campus regardless of 
whether or not they have C-MU permits. 
Other permit violations will be enforced 
by progressively more stringent measures 
of issuing C-MU tickets, loss of parking 
privileges, issuing magistrate tickets, vehicle 
immobilization and towing.
Bill Dillon, Business Manager, laments 
“Parking Enforcement is something that no 
one likes, but we have yet to find a way to 
avoid it. Permit holders pay a fee in return 
for the right to park in a specific lot. With­
out some enforcement there is only havoc.
Last year we tried to gradually increase the 
enforcement and found that people began 
to think that they could pay the tickets for 
less than the permit. This year my advice 
is - get a permit!”
The Counseling Center is organizing 
a group to deal with weight reduction. The 
Center recognizes that the problem of 
being overweight is difficult to handle on 
one’s own. Social pressures and health 
concerns may be constant sources of worry 
for the overweight individual. Diets, drugs, 
and/or reducing machines may have been 
tried, but with little or no lasting results.
The group, which is open to all stu­
dents, faculty, and staff will take an 
approach that has had a higher success rate 
than any other aimed at weight loss. Prin­
ciples of behavior modification will be used 
with a focus on the following three ele­
ments: behavioral control of eating, man­
agement of food intake, and management 
of excerise. Each individual will have the
opportunity to learn to control his or her 
own food intake, eating pattern, and exer­
cise pattern. The group meetings will deal 
with those elements involved in such con­
trol and any associated problems. No 
testimonials or public readings of individu­
als’ weights will be involved (as in the case 
with such groups as Weight Watchers).
Because the program requires much ef­
fort and involvement on the part of each 
individual, only those with a serious inter­
est should enroll. Meetings will take place 
once a week, beginning in the latter part of 
September. The time will be arranged 
which is most convenient to all involved. 
To sign up or gain further information, 
please contact Dr. Pamela Freeman in the 
Counseling Center at Ext. 280, 135-B 
Baker Hall.
PORTi
W<b/Men’s Collective
Open Invitation 
to our first meeting
for all women and men
6:30 p.m. Wherett Room in Skibo 
Thursday, September 18,1975 
—---------------REFRESHMENTS-------------------
PORTi•SA•SALE!*
These Professional carrying cases are made of sturdy weather 
resistant simulated cowhide vinyl, (2) heavy duty zippers and 
handles with protective metal studs on the bottom.
-------------------At Least 40% off our regular prices!!-------------------
17” x 22" $7.25 23" x 31" 9.95
20" x 26" 8.95 25" x 37" 12.95
31" x 42" 19.95
Month of September only, or as supply lasts!CAPPV & CO.-.
SIGN, SCREEN PRINTING & ARTIST SUPPLIES
323 BLVD. OF THE ALLIES, PITTSBURGH, PA. 15222 PHONE 412-281-2133
A series of three programs dealing with
Organizational Systems 
for Student Activities
i
Sat., Sept. 27th 10:00 AM. to 4:00 P.M., GSIA 
Lounge
Internal Organizational Needs
Conducted by Ed Conlon, GSIA
Topics Include: Effective leadership/management;
Power in numbers; and motivations for join Student
Activities.
Sat., Oct. 4th 10:00 AM. to 4:00 PM., GSIA 
Lounge
Marketing Your Product
Topics include: determining effectiveness 
of your organization; mechanism for evaluating 
your structure and product; and marketing your 
product well so that people know what you're about.
Sat., Oct. 18th 10 AM. to 4:00 PM., Room 7 7, 
Skibo
University Resources*
"How to" session on the use of accounting 
system, setting up and maintaining accurate 
books, stretching your budget; and identifying 
potential problem areas.
Lunch will be provided.
Sign up at Skibo Info Desk. 
Sponsored by Student Activities.
ÉMÉ

---------------------------------------------------

THE TARTAN-September 16, 1975-Page 7
About Your Future! 
What Are You Looking For?
• Immediate Financial Assistance
• Improved Ability To Manage 
Resources And Lead People
V
• Improved Ability In Oral And 
Written Communication.
• Added Educational Breadth.
• Improved Career Opportunities.
WE MAY HAVE WHAT YOU WANT 
You Can Still Enroll...
LET'S TALK-ARMY ROTC
For More Information Contact:
Maj. John P. Carey 
ROTC. Gym 203 
621-2600x281-282

---------------------------------------------------

Page 8—THE TARTAN-Septemher 16, 1975
CON
by Mark Evan Chimsky
We are entirely too kind to our popular 
entertainments. In these days when we 
approach movies apprehensively, braced 
for shock (i.e., “Jaws”) or shlock (i.e., 
“Tommy”), there is a certain desperation 
in our definition of a film as art. “Nash­
ville” has hit the scene — praised even be­
fore its premiere - and now greeted with 
the same kind of all-stops-out media hype 
which helped make financial successes of 
both “Tommy” and “Jaws”.
But there is a difference. Robert Alt­
man’s epic entertainment is being saluted 
as a work of legendary cinematic art. That 
old ‘we-enjoy-therefore-it-is-art’ syndrome 
is back. It’s a cozy self-indulgence - one 
that allows for an indiscriminate apprecia­
tion of whatever works we favor. The 
trouble with all of the laurels for “Nash­
ville” is not that they are undeserved, but 
that the balance of the film’s many flaws 
are treated with kid-gloves or, as is more 
often the case, not at all.
???
Why then, is “Nashville” not a work of 
art? Altman certainly takes an artist’s risks 
while busily connecting the lives of his 
twenty-four leading characters. But Alt­
man’s panoramic vision of an American 
culture preoccupied with roots that# fail 
them is composed on such a grand scale 
you can barely see the trees for the for­
est. The people are easily identifiable 
types — the bantam king of the Country- 
Western Music dynasty? his alkie wife; a 
lily-white C&W Queen prone to break­
downs; a sulky assassin — everything, in 
fact, but a whore with a heart of gold and 
the kitchen sink. Altman, who claims he 
loves parties, directs as if he were throwing 
one. He introduces us to characters, but 
hedges around the issue of developing 
them. Usually the character is so self-con­
tained, such an archetype that once the 
essentials are given, we need no other 
clues — we can fill in the familiar details by 
ourselves. It’s a sort of paint-by-numbers 
form of character development.
“Nashville” is much like a Southern 
“Shampoo” — but with neither the depth 
nor the brilliant calibre of performances 
which that film offered. Most of the char­
acters are middle-aged, middle-class, hung­
up, strung-out, frustrated, and rich with 
hypocrisy. In this ersatz gailery, Altman in­
cludes his version of what has come to be 
the trendy new symbol of the American 
male in films — tthe casual, sexually ob­
sessed superstud. In “Shampoo”, Warren
Beatty was a confused and childish Casa­
nova, in love with the potential carnal 
grace of every woman. In “Nashville”, we 
have no idea what compels Keith Carradine 
to engage a non-stop succession of bed- 
mates. Carradine’s moronic performance 
doesn’t do much to suggest any answers. 
Screenwriter Joan Tewkesbury compounds 
this central weakness in character moti­
vation by burlesquing it. The moment a 
girl issues forth from his bed, Carradine, 
as if by involuntary reflex reaction, 
snatches the phone and rings up someone 
else to fill the still-warm empty space be­
side hime. Whereas Beatty was a pathetic 
Peter Pan in wolfs clothing, Carradine 
emerges as a Pop Culture cartoon. Why 
four women in the film are devastated by 
him is never quite explained.
A friend of mine has argued that notn- 
ing in “Nashville” need be explained— 
that the film is “all impact.” It’s pretty 
feeble terms — but, perhaps the only, terms 
on which to take the film. Because Altman 
does not bother with the tricky business of 
motivation, events fall into our laps with 
an arbitrariness which, in itself, is bother­
some. What makes the assassin tick or 
what’s behind that dumb stare of Shelley 
Duvall as a nymphomaniacal chameleon be­
come irrelevant questions. We are not 
asked to reason them out — Altman is con­
cerned for the most part with external re­
sults, rarely with root causes. His tricks are 
cheap and often excessive, expecially when 
he plays up to the current craze for sex and 
violence, urging a cheer from the audience 
by having a few dozen cars collide in a 
muti-lane pile-up, or drawing a laugh in 
those scenes where Shelley Duvall sidles 
Zombie-like from one male to the next 
without even taking a breather. Because of 
the lack of character dimension, Altman 
never quite earns his effects. We are in­
trigued by the frail Barbra Jean’s crack-up 
onstage for no other reason but that 
dissolutions make for good entertain­
ment. The rationale for her breakdown is 
as much an expected convention as her 
wardrobe of white dresses. It’s the same 
‘exploited — show-biz kid/crazy-adult’ rou­
tine Hollywood has been dishing out for 
years.
Like most of the characters in “Nash­
ville,” Barbara Jean is a hand-me-down; 
easy to deal with. Too easy. We sympathize 
with her for the same reasons we embrace 
an old friend — Altman makes no demand 
on us to learn anything new about her. She 
is a tool, a simple part of the mosaic which 
Altman orders to demonstrate America’s 
blind worship of helpless mortals set up as 
cult-gods. Unfortunately, the character is
C-Book Corrections
If there are any corrections to be made 
in the following information forthe C-Book. 
Send this form to Box 100 Skibo
Name 
Year _Major
Phone
New Local Address.
Another A.PHI. O. service
about as original as the premise she illus­
trates.
???
Geraldine Chaplin as Opal, the intrusive 
BBC reporter, is less than a type - she’s a 
caricature of a type and she’s disastrous. 
There is no blood at work in Opal — she is 
a construct, a sneering American journ­
alist’s bad joke. If there are women like 
Opal, who speak in breathy purple prose 
about the garbage heaps of Nashville and 
marvel at regiments of yellow schoolbuses, 
then certainly they do not ogle and gush all 
the time as Mr. Altman would have us be­
lieve. Opal is a thin sketch of the overseas 
competition — all British condescension 
and naivete; a paranoid American fantasy 
of ‘the intruder on native soil. The part 
does nothing for Ms. Chaplin and Ms. 
Chaplin (an actress of usually commend­
able talent) can do nothing with the part. 
It’s an embarrassment all way ‘round, par­
ticularly as the character pokes up repeat­
edly to weave the narrative threads to­
gether.
The actors, in general, are handicapped 
by Altman’s insistence on improvisatory 
technique. Improvisation is a curious thing 
that the screen exposes ruthlessly. The ac­
tors strain to communicate an immediate 
reality and their self-consciousness shows. 
They are so busy being real, saying real 
things that we become aware of how hard 
they are working and stop believing in 
them.. Actors adopt a new, unintentional 
formality when attempting improvisa­
tions — there is a tenseness, an unnatural­
ness about the actor that signals his ‘spon­
taneity’. Here, the fight scenes come across 
especially bad. The set pieces, (such as the 
Grand Ole Opry numbers andthose scenes 
in which Lily Tomlin communicates with 
her two deaf children), work much better. 
The best of them is a long sequence involv­
ing a small-time waitress with no talent and 
the name Suleen Gay, intent on making it 
as a Country-Western star. She stuffs her 
bra with thick socks and keeps a cluster of 
Virgin Mary figurines beside her mirror. 
Sueleen is the perennial tease, the red- 
haired flirt; yet she is also austerely inno­
cent, awkward and afraid of her sexuality. 
At a private, all-male smoker, she is booed 
off the small stage, then frantically in­
formed by the manager that she was asked 
there primarily to take her clothes off. She 
fumbles at a strip, launching her clothes to 
the applauding ringside audience, becoming 
a grossly humiliated prisoner, trapped in 
the lion’s den. Altman’s skill is at work 
here (when he’s good, he’s very good) and 
Gwen Welles as Sueleen is superb.
But Altman botches one moment for 
every other he gets right. He imports two 
name-stars he has previously work with 
(Julie Christie and Elliot Gould) to play 
themselves so that the local big-timers can 
gaze blankly at them and prove how 
vaguely aware, almost detached Nashville is 
from the jet-set Hollywood scene. Com­
mercial movie stars don’t really matter 
much to them - Nashville is their Holly­
wood, with its own complex hierarchy and 
politicking for wealth, fame and power. 
Even after the first funny segment with 
Gould the message seems pointedly clear. 
But Altman replays the bit later on, using 
Julie Christie for the celebrity cameo.
The only thing more offensive than a re­
dundant comic shtick is a redundant comic 
conceit that smacks of self-congratulation. 
Altman seems to drive his joke thin more 
to advertise the strong sense of actor/direc­
tor unity (particularly famous actor/direc­
tor unity) which he has managed to 
achieve, rather than any purposeful charac­
ter development. In fact, the only thing 
watching Ms. Christie made me want to 
do was go out and see a good Julie Christie
movie. She looks rather mortified here and 
one does not blame her — instead of being 
allowed to perform, she is simply shuffled 
in as one of Altman’s press-agents; her loy­
alty to Altman transparently showcased in 
an aimless non-sequitur of a scene. It’s an 
inside, show-bizzy pat on the back that is 
as artless as it is vain.
The widely-publicized, sophisticated 
sound system is used most effectively in 
the excellent opening scene with Henry 
Gibson as Haven Hamilton interrupting a 
recording session (where he is singing right­
eously about America) to verbally shoot an 
unconventional piano player. Like most of 
Altman’s ideas, the soundtrack system is 
scarcely employed to its fullest advantage 
after the initial introduction of it. The 
songs, written by the cast members them­
selves, capture the pride and hard-line 
rhythm beats of the city itself, notably the
Ijlfv ;
^53
I
£ .. J
: r
ironic bravura of Haven Hamiliton’s “We 
Must Be Doing Something Right To Last 
200 Years” and the movie’s anthem, “It 
Don’t Worry Me”.
Altman occasionally catches the right 
little detail to dine an experience. His cam­
era wonderfully relates lily Tomlin’s wry 
dismay as she is joined in a bar by a gigolo 
past his prime or the way one-stage church 
pews service the friends of performers in 
the Grand Ole Opry. With “Nashville”, ^ 
.Robert Altman continues to deliver bits 
and pieces of a genius whidi never becomes 
more than half-realized. He does not yet 
demand enough of himself to make his work 
full-bodied and resonant. In the midst of so 
potentially superior an artist, what we must 
not do is settle for less and call it great.

---------------------------------------------------

Nas
V*
by Beekman W. Cottrell
It is very satisfying--and very rare--to be 
present as a potentially fine artist comes 
into his own. The early films of Ingmar 
^Bergman held all the elements of genius, 
but as we watch “Wild Strawberries” now 
**we see how Bergman brought all his gifts 
together in that film to become a unique 
artist. Similarly, the early works of Picasso 
led inevitably to such powerful, mature 
works as “Guernica.”
Robert Altman has been feeling his way 
toward such an artistic synthesis. There 
were elements of genius in “M*A*S*H”, in 
V “McCabe and Mrs. Miller” and in Califor-
0 nia Split.” But “Nashville” soars into its 
own realm and Altman is home free. He 
has achieved the right balance of careful 
scripting and improvisation. He continues
also clear that she is under mental strain 
and, in one of the movie’s most telling 
scenes, she gives way during a public per­
formance. The other strand is a strong po­
litical one--the campaign for the Presidency 
in an off-beat party by Hal Phillip Walker. 
We never see him, but we hear his sound 
truck and we get to know his suave front 
man, Triplette, and some of the party 
hacks in his entourage. The two plot lines 
come together in a last, powerful political 
rally on the steps of Nashville’s famed 
reconstruction of the Parthenon.
It is cle.: early on, then, that “Nash­
ville” is not primarily a story about C&W 
music. That is the milieu, but it might just 
as well have been backstage Hollywood 
(The Judy Garland “A Star is Born”) or a 
newspaper empire (“Citizen Kane”). There 
are a number of Nashville-based songs
veals in stark vignettes the emptiness with­
in these practitioners of a popular art form, 
the uncertainties of their personal lives, 
the unfulfilled dreams of those who start­
ed life with hearts high.
This is the stuff of great drama any­
where and at any time. Altman,by cutting 
rapidly from one character and incident to 
another, creates a web of developing 
drama as he reveals the vulnerable human­
ity of his people. There are touches of 
humor and mordant wit but “Nashville” 
is not, as the sign at the Warner Theatre 
signals, “comedy.”
? ??
Film editors Sidney Levin and Dennis 
Hill have served Altman’s vision with 
extraordinary power. About half-way along 
in the film we move rapidly through brief
to find the perfect actors and to evoke 
from them superb performances. And in 
“Nashville” he tries for and achieves an 
epic vision rare in current cinema. It is the 
kind of film that one leaves knowing at 
once that he wants to see it again-that 
there is much more to be perceived and felt 
and studied.
? ??
So this can pnly be a preliminary report 
on a complex, beautiful and haunting film. 
It offers some 24 major characters involved 
in two plot lines, with many a crossover as 
the film progresses. Country and Western 
star Barbara Jean comes home to Nashville 
and is greeted as the star she is. But it is
performed during the course of the film, 
but all are integral to the story and many 
lend genuine support and depth to the 
incidents in which they appear. It has been 
Altman’s genius to find singer-composers 
who, for the most part, perforn their own 
songs.
So much for the major plot thrusts. 
What “Nashville” is really about is the sell­
ing of a product, and it becomes painfully 
clear as we go along that the product is as 
hollow and materialistic as most sales 
products are in America these days. There 
is total devotion to that product and a 
fierce surface support for it. But the movie, 
in scene after scene behind stage and in 
moments away from performances, re­
moments at four Sunday church services', 
they deepen our knowledge of the charac­
ters involved, creating another face of life 
in Nashville. At a cfowded night club, 
stud-singer Keith Carradine plays and 
sings, and four women present, each sure 
that he is singing to her, finally realize 
where his attention truly is. The eye of the 
camera moves, stays just long enough to 
make its point, and moves on.
Richard Baskin’s musical supervision, 
too, is of high calibre. The song and their 
moods, trom the searing opener “Two 
Hundred Years” performed with extra­
ordinary skill and cynicism by Henry
Gibson-- to the final, sustained “It Don’t 
Worry Me” in the confusion after an as­
sassination at the political rally, are all 
powerful and rightly placed.
And I am sure that every one of the 24 
principles, let alone all of the good folk 
of Nashville who flesh out many of the 
scenes, will be eternally grateful for the 
chance to have been in this film, however 
briefly. They all deserve mention, but I 
must limit my praise.
Veteran actress Barbara Baxley is un­
forgettable as Lady Pearl, a nightclub 
owner and grande dame of the music 
capital. Her monologue-memories of the 
Kennedy brothers and the days of their 
deaths are haunting and strike an import­
ant foreshadowing theme. Lily Tomlin, 
revealed as a profound actress, plays the 
mother of two deaf children and the wife 
of a bumbling husband, Ned Beatty. Her 
ill-fated affair with Carradine is beautifully 
underplayed and she is most welcome to 
the ranks of serious film performers. 
Karen Black, though seen only briefly, 
surprises with her strong singing and her 
control as rival singer for Barbara Jean. 
Barbara Harris creates a kooky, aging 
singer determined to make it big in 
Nashville ironically doing so, for a moment 
at least, at the political rally. Michael 
Murphy combines shyness and quiet 
menace as Triplette, and Gwen Welles 
creates a Sueleen Gay- a beautiful girl 
with absolutely no talent, determined to 
become a singer- with chilling accuracy.
Surprising in her power and bite is 
Geraldine Chaplin as Opal, a documentary 
maker from the BBC, in Nashville by 
chance to make a record of its musical life. 
At first the role seems abrasive, but we 
need her ready-made, obtuse ideas about 
America and the South as a counterpoint 
to other kinds of false values, other home­
grown examples of personal self-deception. 
Miss Chaplin does a first-rate job in this 
bumptious role.
But if the palm must go to any one of 
these gifted actors, it is to Ronee Blakely 
as Barbara Jean. Her traditional, heart- 
breakingly pretty face and figure belie 
what is within. Her eyes tell us how trou­
bled she is, and her every scene is full of a 
naturalness and magnetism rare on any 
screen. She steps from the jet plane and 
is Barbara Jean, half-phoney, half-real. 
She sings,(all her sons were written by Ms. 
Blakely), with emotion an3 truth. Her de­
parture from the hospital, feted by all 
with attention and flowers, is a triumph. 
And her final appearance at the Parthenon 
is a gripping affair. Where Altman found 
her is a mystery; whether she can ever 
again be so powerful is a question. But as 
Barbara Jean in “Nashville’ she is a total 
triumph.
Keenan Wynn is saddled with the poten­
tially sentimental role in the movie and 
keeps it just within bounds. As his niece, 
L. A. Joan, Shelley Duvall, tall and gawky 
and somehow sexy, is freakish and delight­
ful. In short, all these performers are real 
and believable.
? ??
The highest praise I can give to “Nash­
ville” is that its two hours and thirty-nine 
minutes offer the most consistently inter­
esting film fare I have seen in many years. 
These minutes add up to an epic vision of 
America Now. National critics have liken­
ed “Nashville” to “Citizen Kane” and 
“The Best Years of Our Lives” as explor­
ations of the American temperament, and 
they are not wrong. Another young Amer­
ican film director has come of age, and 
we are already deeply in his dept.

---------------------------------------------------

Page 10—THE TARTAN—September 16, 1975
Ragtime: Relivening the Past
by Lisa Zeidner
The muckraker shadowing Harry Hou- 
dini “was the kind of reporter expert in the 
stupid and inconsequential new story so 
loved by the papers of the time.” Our 
newspapers still lust after Onassises, Bonos, 
Watergates — glamors and tragedies “estab­
lished in the public consciousness as larger 
than life.” E. L. Doctorow’s Ragtime flies 
in the face of this obsession with True 
Facts.
Doctorow champions sheer invention, 
stubbornly dodging the watchdogs of real­
ity and accuracy. Here Houdini, Freud, 
Booker T. Washington and the Little Ras­
cals fall in love, clash, show up at the same 
scene of the crime and at the same parties. 
As spring produces flowers “like a mad 
magician flinging silks and colored 
rags from his trunk,” these unlikely con­
trivances breathe life and become dazzling- 
ly convincing.
Doctorow says he wrote Ragtime to stir 
up interest in serious fiction. His accomp­
lishment is in demonstrating that serious 
fictional innovations can be entertaining. 
Riding on the crest of a nostalgia wave, 
Ragtime’s success is no surprise. There are 
enticing society pages of Model T’s, sex 
goddesses, the latest fashions and gossip. 
But the period-piece trivia is only Rag­
time’s veneer. With the same suspense that 
the public “read between the lines” for the 
lush and lurid truth of starlets, Doctorow 
makes us dig for insights about how people 
view themselves against time and history.
Ragtime revolves around Mother, 
Father, Younger Brother and The Boy. The 
family manages to find itself in the middle 
of a murder; a torrential love affair; racial 
blackmail. But those central characters are 
nameless: they pale next to all the celebri­
ties woven through their lives. Father man­
ufactures flags and fireworks in an age 
when “patriotism was a reliable senti­
ment.” The middle class family could not 
be more typcial. They read the papers. 
They go to movies: “In the movie films... 
life shines on the shadow screen, as from 
the darkness of one’s own mind. It is a big 
business. People want to know what is 
happening to them.”
What happens in Ragtime is dramatic in 
its historical significance. Ford has inven­
ted mass production; Perry has reached the 
North Pole. Immigrants, blacks and women 
are beginning to struggle against the in­
justices of Carnegies and Morgans. Doc­
torow doesn’t avoid the era’s political 
themes, yet what is important is how 
these events influence individuals — or, 
rather, why individuals perpetrate the 
events. Morgan funds Egyptian arch­
aeology, convinced that he is descended 
from the great Pharaohs. Houdini deserts 
his popular stunts because he fears that 
“for all his achievements he was a trickster, 
an illusionist, a mere magician. What was 
the sense of his life if people walked out of 
the theatre and forgot him? The real-world 
act was what got into the history books.”
In Ragtime, it is ironically the personal, 
rather than the historical, that is signi­
ficant. Almost whimsically, Doctorow pits 
what makes the newspapers against the 
idiocyncratic, the petty, the private. A 
union worker’s daughter “liked the strike 
because it got her out of her room”; her 
father thought that “Workers could strike 
and die, but in the streets, an enterpreneur 
could cook sweet potatoes in a bucket of 
hot coals and sell them for a penny or 
two.” Amidst all the historical accomplish­
ments and traumas, “somehow piano 
lessons began to be heard. . .” The effect 
is a tapestry of spontaneous, photographic 
“slices of life.”
Sometimes such pictures border on the 
camp, as when Houdini escapes from pri- 
“son and is propositioned by a nude inmate” 
or when Younger Brother emerges from a 
closet to attack his heroine, “his face 
twisted into a paroxysm of saintly morti­
fication.” While Doctorow obviously in­
tends this bizarre, Diane Arbus approach 
to the age, it becomes tiresome in some 
places.
But the cuteness is overriden by the fact 
that there is little that is sentimental or 
nostalgic about Doctorow’s view of the 
age. In fact, his characters have quite 
modern outlooks; they are inflicted with a 
distressing self-consciousness, an awareness 
of their own insignificance. The Boy, 
spoofing the cliche of childhood inno­
cence, is the prime spokesman of this self- 
consciousness. He discovers the mirror 
“not from vanity but as a means of self­
duplication. He would gaze at himself until 
there were two selves facing one another, 
neither of which could claim to be the real 
one. . .He would entrance himself so 
deeply in this process that, .he would 
have to rely on some outside stimulus, a 
loud noise or a change in the light coming 
through the window, to capture his atten­
tion and make him whole again.” History 
itself is Doctorow’s “outside stimulus”. It 
anchors him in the universality of people’s 
doubts: “The world composed and recom­
posed itself constantly in an endless pro­
cess of dissatisfaction.”
Self-consciousness is the domain of con­
temporary experimental fiction. No longer 
is God causing events: the author himself 
is the string-puller, obtrusively forming his 
own world. Doctorow makes the questions, 
“what can you as reader believe?”, or
“what really happened?” vital and immer­
sing by throwing us into a world that is 
foreign to such questions. In Ragtime, 
there are grandiose Citizen Kane-style 
newsreels, Dickensian coincidences that be­
speak the era’s belief in God-sent truths.,' 
(When revolutionary Emma Goldman en­
counters sex-symbol Evelyn Nesbit, she is 
“ready to accept the mystical rule of all 
experience. You came because in such 
ways as the world works, your life was 
destined to interact with my own.”) Be­
cause we are made to question the events’ 
authenticity, because we know that the 
two met only because Doctorow wanted 
them to, we are given as much a view of 
our own consciousness as that of the Rag-* 
time era.
The human endeavor Doctorow offers is 
timeless: live comfortably with your own 
life, control your own fate. His characters 
are seldom happy in the present. Henry 
Ford “allotted sixty seconds on his pocket 
watch for a display of sentiment. Then he 
sent everybody back to work.” Father, > 
amidst an Arctic adventure, is busy keeping 
diaries, convinced that “by the act of 
making witness, he warranted times and 
places for existence other than the time 
and place he was living through.”
Ragtime is so absorbing that it forces us 
to abandon our own lives, problems. Doc- r
torow gives Scott Joplin’s warning as an 
epigraph: “Do not play this piece fast. It is 
never right to play Ragtime fast.” By the 
end of the novel, “the era of Ragtime had 
run out, with the heavy breath of the 
machine, as if history were no more than a 
tune on a player piano.” Unlike Ragtime’s 
characters, who can’t rerun their lives, 
we can reread, go back to catch missed 
insights and opportunities. Doctorow’s .
novel is rich and inexhaustible. As un­
convinced as he is about the importance 
of history, Doctorow’s Ragtime is one 
novel from our era that is sure to sur­
vive. y
THE MUSIC EMPORIUMGUITARS 
BANJOS 
MANDOLINS 
bv MARTIN, GUILD, 
"KOHNO" YAMAHA
FINE FRETTED 
AND FOLK 
INSTRUMENTS ETC. 
NEW ft USED
Lessons, Repairs
«87-1510
5437 WALNUT ST. SHADYSIDE
Ali Baba Restaurant
Is Happy to Announce the Completion of Its 
Remodeling Which Gives It the Middle East Atmosphere
The New Ali Baba Restaurant 
Combines the New Atmosphere with the Old Low Price 
and Its Friendly, Efficient Service
7he Management of Ali Baba Restaurant 
Invites You to Come and See Everything for Yourself
— at —
404 Craig Street
(Only 2 Blocks From Campus)
For Reservations, Call 682-2829

---------------------------------------------------

THfc I AH I AN—beptemoe!' 10, iy/o—rage m
Super (?) Coffeehouse
by Joanna Reisler
Glen Super, of Zit Blemish and the Hot 
Rocks fame, gave a coffeehouse perfor­
mance that was predictable, but mildly en­
tertaining. His set consisted of four folksy- 
sounding songs, one brief outburst of 
fiftiesish rocker warble, some audience par­
ticipation, most of which was not reques­
ted by the artist, several sketches, involving 
imaginary women, and two parodies of 
noted personalities.
Super bounds onto the stage and intro­
duces himself in a rather self-consciously 
loud voice; he is competing with the water­
melon dance in the next room. Neverthe­
less, he is suitably attired for the occasion. 
Johnny Carson would have approved of 
Super’s tastefully faded denim outfit, and 
nylon shirt, printed in swirling designs, 
worn with pointy collar outside the jacket 
lapel. Glen also sports not too high, 
polished, platform boots.
The Super man opens his set with a song 
about being “proud to be a redneck from 
Great Neck (Long Island)”; that tune has 
been reworked more than a few times. Ap­
parently, rednecks from Great Neck fre­
quently fly TWA to Miami, drinking Chivas 
while airborne. .Anyone who pokes fun at 
this activity must surely be jealous. Taking 
a Florida vacation is infinitely more 
amusing than “snorting (the products of) 
Pittsburgh steel mills” which is a popular 
pasttime among the city residents, 
according to Glen
books around in Gucci shoulder bags.
He announces that the next song will 
be “Gentile on My Mind”. Instead, he 
breaks into the Zit Blemish rountine, a 
frantic parody of a Presley-inspired star. 
He hastily unbuttons his shirt to reveal 
black gorilla hair glued to his chest. . .more 
knee-slapping. He leaps off stage hovers 
over some poor, bewildered girl and asks 
such questions as, “Karen, what, high 
school do you go to?”
Super now becomes superstud in his 
stand-up comic routine about his various 
D.A.T.E.S.with the daughtersof such media 
dignitaries as Col. Sanders and Ralph 
Nader. Glen spits out the punch lines in
quick succession; he’s still in competition 
with the bash in the ballroom. Then again, 
you, too, would spit out those lines if you 
had to say them. The Colonel’s daughter 
has tender, succulent qualities, etc. etc. 
Super, as a lover, is recalled by Ralph 
Nader.
In the grand tradition of Howard Cosell, 
Glen broadcasts events taking place at an 
NBA (National Ballet Association) affair. 
The star Ballerina is described as floating 
across stage on legs that resemble those of 
“Alex Karra’s in hot pants at a gay bar.” 
After that picture the rest of the details are 
merely superfluous except for the commer­
cial break, in which Rudolph Nureyev ad­
vertises STP. . .Zum. . .Zum. . .Zum.
The final blow is a send-up of Billy 
(Graham) Blessing. The only audience ex­
plosion that follows occurs after a parish- 
oner is supposedly “gang begotten”.
Great entertainers usually become paro­
dies of themselves. This is apparent in the 
current cult revival of Lenny Bruce. A 
comedian who is comfortable with his 
material delivers a performance with ease; 
he simply talks to his audience. A stand-up 
comic who hurls his lines at the listeners 
creates a barrier between himself and his 
public. Super’s lines are forced to work too 
hard; they dangle precariously by them­
selves. This artist is more comfortable with 
his “own” act, his self-parody, in the form 
of Zit Blemish, the arrogant waiter. He can 
afford to fling his lines aggressively when 
he, himself, is behind them.
Photo by: Mark Segal
Next, he moves to middle America, land 
of the Golden Arches, golden french fries 
and golden melted cheese on top of what is 
almost a hamburger. Doggies, flies, and the 
ubiquitous grease are mentioned 
more than once. From this he draws a luke­
warm response.
Glen opens the next number by asking 
if there are any perverts present in the 
audience; this is posed merely as a hypo­
thetical question. A responsive listener 
offers a spontaneous reply: “Yeah, on 
stage.” This induces much knee-slapping. 
Super moves right along to the popular 
subject of kinky sex freaks. We are treated 
to a ditty about “S & M jams”, complete 
with generous helpings of whipped cream. 
We hear all about a lady who jangles hand­
cuffs and Cha Cha Cha’s around in high 
heels, spiked ones with pointy toes, no 
doubt.
We are next informed in song that we 
are living in the “United Status of Amer­
ica”. Well, the country is not exactly over­
run with people who drive Mazerattis, shop 
at Neiman-Marcus and carry their check-
$4.98
THE BAROQUE TRUMPET 
AND HORN AT 
THEIR FINEST
Maurice Andre,
Adolf Scherbaum 
Value to $29 96$9.98
5 record set
RUSSIAN MASTERPIECES
Tchaikovsky 1812 Overture, 
Ballet Music 
Mussorgsky: Night on Bald 
Mountain 
Borodin,
Gliere, AQ QO
much more vOivO
Value to $23 96 4 record set
BEETHOVEN: SYMPHONY 
NO 9 AND SYMPHONY NO 8
Soloists,
New Performance 
conducted by 
Jean Fournet and Rotterdam 
Philharmonic Orchestra 
Value to $11.98 2r«cordset
BEETHOVEN
SIX FAVORITE PIANO
SONATAS
Moonlight,
Appasionatta AA QQ 
Waldstein more hvilv 
Alfred Brendel. soloist 
Value to $23 98 4 record set
MOZART:
THE COMPLETE WIND 
CONCERTI
Music for Clarinet 
Horn, Flute, Oboe 
European soloists 
Value to $23 98$8.98
ROCK
Grateful Dead 
Canned Heat 
Chuck Berry 
Ginger Baker 
The Association 
Rod McKuen
JAZZ
Les McCann 
Yusef Lateef 
Jimmy Witherspoon 
Dave Brubeck 
Ramsey Lewis
CLASSICAL
William Steinberg
Maurice Andre
Adolf Scherbaum
Alfred Brendel
Launndo Almeida
London Symphony Orchestra
BLUES-FOLK
John Hammond 
Doc Watson 
Buffy Sainte Marie 
Otis Spann 
Fats Waller 
Memphis Slim 
Joan Baez
4 record set
LABELS
Sine Qua Non 
Westminster Gold 
RCA
Nonesuch
Vanguard
Elektra
Atlantic
and many others
Sale starts Wednesday, Sept. 17. 
Ends Tuesday Sept. 30. 
Bookstore, Baker Hall 
8:00 A.M. to 5:00 P.M.

---------------------------------------------------

Page 12-THE TARTAN-September 16,1975
The Wizard of Asbury Park
All summer long the sweat oozed 
through the cracks in the tenement walls. 
We waited and waited. Many of the un­
faithful ones were led astray by clever di­
versions but the true Bruce Springsteen 
fans had unending patience. We would run 
through through the back alleys at the 
crack of dawn, when rumor would tell of 
the new Bruce Springsteen release. Oh how 
the lies hounded us.
» I was sitting up alone on the fire escape 
late one night, when I felt a strange tinge in 
the summer air. It was as if the whole 
lower side of town had been taken with a 
strange madness. Street gangs danced in the 
street, the law was subdued. A knock came 
to our door, torches burned in the evening 
night. A silent messenger from the street 
arrived, his stony face said little. He bore a 
gift but rushed off to his chariot (with a 
456) in a flash. Footloose Bruce tugged 
nervously at the taut plastic but he finally 
managed to free the record from its tight 
bond. The album starred blindly at us, I 
couldn’t take the pressure. Could Spring­
steen do it again? I leapt to my feet and 
out onto the flimsy fire escape. A soft 
piano began to play. Soon it had trans­
formed itself into a sexy waltz. I smiled. 
Born To Run (the album’s title) had 
moved from myth to reality, I was exalted.
Springsteen’s new performance is a su­
perb mixture of folk/rock and soul/jazz. 
Bruce’s vocals are more than I had expec­
ted. His unique voice handles the sophis­
ticated street lyrics. His Dylan and Jagger- 
ique mannerisms have become tributes to 
these great artists, not just good imitations. 
Springsteen’s new band still has all the 
complicated musical changes that Jkeep
band leaders like Zappa totally envious. 
Born To Run founds a new funky vein 
that leaves all the other white soul bandá 
in their imitating tracks.
The album tells tender tales of a lonely 
lover who doesn’t love the night, he wor­
ships it. Romanticism is a hot chevy, an 
overly protected New York teenage sweet­
heart, or Bob Dylan blaring out of a 
lonely Jersey comer window. Springsteen’s 
songs speak of the young, the wild. Cozy 
coeds with their Pelusi hair cuts and their
75 Granadas might not understand the 
feelings that Springsteen pushes through 
his imagery. Its something unholy, prob­
ably very unexplainable.
There are strong soul songs included on 
this new disc, they shake with Motown 
influences. Take “Tenth Avenue Freeze 
Out”. It moves like the white walled Cadil­
lac in front of that Center Avenue drug­
store. Springsteen sings, “Sometimes the 
whole world’s walking pretty, and you 
can’t find the room to move”. Saxophones 
flash like the alley switchblades and the 
whole band faces off for a rumble on the 
very next instrumental break.
Other sides of Bruce Springsteen are 
offered up like sacrificial gifts. Slowly the 
acoustic piano plays and suddenly a Man­
hattan gang is performing its own special 
ballet on the brick lanes. Hearing is be­
lieving.
If you have not heard of Bruce Spring­
steen, five will get you ten that you’re not 
from Philly and you don’t own a leather 
coat or a stained back seat of a chevy. 
Bruce was probably born when his parents 
moved to California. Hitting the bars, 
Springsteen payed his dues in a special or­
There are a variety of hip little happen­
ings in and around CMU and Sun City 
(Pittsburgh), that you can easily get to 
with a minimum amount of energy release. 
This, therefore, is an effort to give you a 
vague idea of what really is going on 
around town, and what to do in case you 
are in any way interested. Since this article 
is not chrnologically organized it would be 
wise to take out a pen or pencil so that you 
can underline the events that interest you
— as I will be jumping from the Ali-Frazier 
fight, to the Ice Capades and then over to 
Jimi Hendrix and Robin Trower.
For ice freaks — the Civic Arena and the 
Exhibit Hall in Pittsburgh will present the 
Ice Capades from September 10-21. Shows 
are at 2 p jn. and 8 p.m. and seats range 
from $3.50 to $6.50 — “A treat for the 
whole family!”. A preseason hockey game 
between the Penguins and Buffalo is also 
scheduled at the Civic Arena on Sept. 25 
at 7:30 p.m. Seats are $4.75 - $9.50.
On Saturday, Sept. 27 the Isley Bros, 
will play at the Arena at 8 p.m. ($5.50 
to $7.50), and on Tuesday, Sept. 30 you 
can watch Ali vs. Frazier as they pound each 
other out for the title on closed circuit TV. 
The show is at 8:30 p.m. and all seats are 
$15.00. If you have any questions about 
these or any other events at the Civic Arena, 
just drop a dime in the slot and call Box 
Office Information at 471-1312.
At the Syria Mosque Theatre two fine 
concerts are coming up in the far future so 
just make a note of it somewhere on your 
calendar. Forget it! I just realized that they 
already took place last May, Oh well...
You can still go see an exhibition called 
Printniaking in Europe: 1900-1950, at the 
Carnegie Institute, Museum of Art. The 
show will run through September and 
admission is free. The exhibition includes 
works from such renown irtists as George
Rousult, Henri Matisse, Pablo Picasso, Juan 
Gris, Joan Miro, Max Pechstein, Max Beckm— 
Beckman, Paul Klee, Alberto Giacometti, 
and many more. It’s a fantastic exhibit, and 
won’t leave you feeling disappointed. As a 
matter of fact, take someone and you’ll have 
a great time. You can cruise on over anytime 
from 10 a jn. to 5 pjn. Tuesday through 
Saturday and from 1 p.m. to 6 p.m. on 
Sunday. Unfortunately the Museum is closed 
on Mondav.
Heinz Hall for the Performing Arts is 
also getting ready to accomodate two new 
shows. The first being Barry Manilow, 
singer-pianist-composer who rose to fame 
through his hit recordings of “Mandy” and 
“It’s a Miracle”. His show is scheduled for 
one performance only; 9 p.m., Sunday, 
September 28. Other favorites from his 
three current top-selling albums will high­
light the Manilow Show. Ticket informa­
tion is available by phoning 281-5000.
Direct from Broadway, the new Heinz 
Hall presentations will also include the 
Micki Grant-Vinette Carroll musical romp, 
winner of 20 top theatre and musical 
awards, “Don’t Bother Me, I Can’t Cope,” 
October 20-22, the nostalgic triumph, 
“Irene”, November 10-12, and the tune­
ful, hilarious tale of Cervantes’ foolish 
knight, “Man of La Mancha,” February
9-11. Get some culture, huh!
By the time you read this you’ve 
probably already missed “An Exhibit of 
White Light Holograms” put out by the 
Children of Light. It was a dynamite show 
of kaleidoscopic colors. So if you ever 
come across the name again and you’re in 
the mood to have your mind slightly 
waddled, see it - you’ll like it!!
You also missed some block-busting jazz 
entertainment at Walt Harper’s Attic, but 
don’t be dismayed because they have a 
different show every week. If you want to
bit known to historians as the Sixties. He 
settled in Asbury Park, New Jersey. At 
night he crossed the state lines into Philly, 
where he proceeded to set the landscape on 
fire with bands such as Dr. Zoom and the 
Sonic Boom. Early in the seventies, Bruce 
signed with; Columbia Records via John 
Hammond, who also signed Dylan. The 
press continues to hype Springsteen as an­
other Bob D. but after seeing a Springsteen 
concert, you’ll soon see what a load of 
cheap avenue bullshit that statement is.
It was a long time in coming but well 
worth the wait for Bom To Run. The great 
rock and roll show that is delivered by
Photo by: Mark Segal
Springsteen on the title cut, makes me be­
lieve in the magic of youth again^ Grab this 
record, then let it grab you. Catch the 
taunting guitar work by Bruce, catch your 
lover in a midnight embrace. Do you hear 
Clarence on sax? Put down the damn knit­
ting ‘cause there’s time for social security 
activities later. We’re young, alive, so listen 
to the singer with “the diamond hard look 
of a cobra”. He’s singing for ya. Bom To 
Run is gonna live in your heart for a long 
long time.
Psst, hey Deb . . . Tramps like us, we 
were bom to run
immature Quiff
know about upcoming shows that you can 
see rather than old ones that you missed, 
stop by at Walt Harper’s Attic, Market 
Square, Pittsburgh or call 261-5083.
Here is another piece of information 
that you might find useful, although it is 
not directly related to entertainment. At 
the Pittsburgh Free Clinic you can get the 
following services:
Venereal disease counseling and 
treatment
General medical evaluation and treat­
ment
Preventative health and health educa­
tion
Pregnancy and birth control counseling 
Contraceptive care 
Personal counseling, etc.
This place is located at the East End 
Christian Church, S. Highland and Alder 
St. or call 661-5424. As their motto goes,
“Health care is a right not a privilege.” So 
much for medical entertainment.
P.S. there will be a Rod Stewart concert 
at the Civic Arena on October 8th.
If after all this you’d rather just sit there 
and suck your toes, at least try listening to 
Jimi Hendrix’s new album, Crash Landing, 
or Robin Trowers, For Earth Below. 
They’re both fine works of spaced out 
wizardry that might even change your per­
spective on life.
Well, have a good time now. Try to for­
get about the hassles of everyday grinding 
at CMU, and go out and paint the town 
red. Just don’t blame the Entertainment 
Section when you suddenly realize, while 
standing in the middle of Pittsburgh, at
2 a.m., that the last bus back to school was 
at one thirty.
Until next time 
Mike Marinangeli
DAVID UTMAN presents
MAYNARD FERGUSON
AND HIS
All STAR BAND
IN CONCERT
HEINZ HALL
FOR THE PERFORMING ARTS
1 5AT., SEPT. 20 at 8:30 P.M.
•Imed•ia tFnclA tsnclA tcncl 
NOW ON SALÌ at Heinz Hall Box Office, 
Kaufmann's, Gimbels and Horae's
^ f by f V

---------------------------------------------------

WV V * * *
THE TARTAN-September 16,1975-Page 13
sports
Tartans Win!
Hold W & J Scoreless
by Gerry Fraley
m There is a new look for the Carnegie- 
’‘Mellon football program, new grass, new 
uniforms, new coaches. But there is some­
thing even more important that is new — a 
winning attitude. This revitalized philo­
sophy was the driving force behind a 7-0 
Tartan victory over the Washington & Jef­
ferson Presidents in the President’s Athletic 
Conference season opener Saturday at 
Tech Stadium.
The Presidents had numerous chances to 
score but the new attitude was translated 
into a defense that wouldn’t quit and pre­
served the shutout.
The first half was scoreless although 
both teams had scoring opportunities. W & 
J had the first scoring threat in the game 
when they moved from their 25 to the Tar­
tan 11 on the strength of the passing of 
quarterback Jim Morrow. Morrow twice 
hooked up with flanker Rick Klimchock 
for 33 yard passes. The drive ended when 
running back Jim Johnson fumbled a 
pitchout at the Tartan four, safety Mike 
Haupt recovering.
The Tartans had their scoring oppor­
tunity late in the first quarter when special­
ty squad member Anthony Digioia, while 
covering a Ted Harhai punt, knifed in to 
drop Johnson and force a fumble. Gary 
West recovered to give the Tartans pos­
sesion on the W & J 19. Three offensive 
plays produced a loss of nine yards and 
brought on Tom McMeekin to attempt a 
44 yard field goal. The kick had the dis­
tance but was wide to the left.
W & J came back once more in the se­
cond quarter as they marched to the Tech
12. The defense again stiffened and pre­
vented a score. 1
The Tartans scored the game’s only 
touchdown in the third period following 
a neat bit of strategy. After taking the 
opening kickoff of the second half, the 
Tartans drove to the W & J 31. The drive 
p stalled here and McMeekin came on to 
attempt a 48 yard field goal. McMeekin in­
tentionally squibbed his attempt and the 
ball rolled out of bounds on the W & J 
seven. The Presidents took over here and
Swimming Pool Hours 
11:30 to 1:20 p.m. 
6:30 to 8:30 p.m.
Monday - Friday 
Monday - Friday
fumbled on their first play, Mike Haupt 
making his second recovery of the game. 
Quarterback Jay Duquette scored on a one 
yard lunge four plays later and McMeekin 
added the conversion.
The Tartan defense came to the front 
after the score. Freshman defensive back 
Tom Robich made two game saving plays 
in the fourth quarter. On the first play of 
the quarter he picked off a Morrow aerial 
after W & J had moved to the Tech 17. 
Two possesions later, with less than five 
minutes remaining, Morrow hit tight end 
Mike Gelsick. Tom Robich was the only 
Tartan defender in his path but the fresh­
man responded with an exceptional open 
field tackle that saved a score.
Carnegie—Mellon is on the road this 
Saturday as they travel to Greenville, 
Pa. for another Presidents Athletic Con­
ference game with the Thiel Tomcats.
Maloney, new basketball coach
Rough Road Ahead 
For Maloney
b NOTE - Weekend hours will be announ­
ced in a few weeks.
The pool and gym facilities are closed 
during home football games.
AC. Wins PAC.
Allegheny College won its third straight 
President’s Athletic Conference All-Sports 
1 Trophy this year with a ten sport total of
* 56.5 points, 11 more than its closest chal­
lenger, Case Western Reserve with 45.5.
Hiram finished third with 44.5 points, 
followed by John Carroll, 43, Bethany, 41, 
Carnegie-Mellon, 35, Thiel, 29.5 and Wash­
ington & Jefferson, 25.
While winning its fourth All-Sports 
Trophy since entering the league in 1959,
? Allegheny captured three outright titles, 
tied for on®, and in only one sport, wrest­
ling, did they finish less than fourth.
Rur.ner-up Case Western Reserve, fin­
ishing one point ahead oC Hiram, took 
three championships, their fourth straight 
in each of cross-country, tennis and track.
Carnegie-Mellon, finishing second in 
tennis and third in golf, placed sixth in the 
' All-Sports standings.
Soccer StartsBy Mark Canepa
W&J quarterback dropped for a loss
I.M. Football
photo Dy: Hick Franti
The soccer season will open September 
19th with a home game against Case Wes­
tern Reserve. The team looks very 
strong this year with the return of junior 
Bob Russel and sophomore Tom Binnie. 
Unfortunately the team will be playing 
without the services of last year’s co- 
captams, Dave Fry, who graduated in 
May and Charlie Lavallee out for the 
season with a back injury. With Mark 
Canepa facing class conflicts, there will 
also be an opening in the goalie position. 
However, the team has a very strong for­
ward line. The defense’s strongest point 
will be Steve King, one of the only three 
returning seniors.
Coach Wayne Nickerson has been get­
ting the team into good physical condition. 
Even with practices being held in Schenley 
Park due to the lack of a soccer field at 
C-MU, the team and coach are confident 
that this year the PAC soccer title will 
come to C-MU.
75
By Jim Balik
As “Monday Night Baseball” gradually 
fades to “Monday Night Football”, we are 
reminded that autumn is the season for 
football; professional, collegiate and 
intramural, that is, CMU Intramural touch 
football.
The season will start Monday, Septem­
ber 15. This year the games will be played 
at 6:30 and 8:00 p.m. which means some 
teams will be playing “under the lights.” 
Since there are two Intramural fields, four 
games will be played each scheduled night. 
Dennis O’Connell and Jeff Grube, who are 
both from Beta Theta Pi fraternity, are 
the commissoners this year. They will be 
responsible for the issuing of equipment 
and the lighting of the night games. The 
game scheduling will be done by the Intra­
mural Athletic Office.
continued on page 14
Athletic Director Jim Banner announ 
ced the appointment of Dave Maloney as 
head varsity basketball coach for the 1975-
76 season.
Maloney, 34, of Philadelphia, complied 
a 190-96 record during 11 seasons at Our 
Lady of Lourdes High School in Shamokin, 
Pa.
Maloney ' inherits a CMU team which 
went 4-16 last season, and 4-10 in con­
ference play. To make his job even more 
challenging, the Tartans haven’t broken 
.500 since the 1966-67 season.
“I didn’t come here to rebuild over 
a long period,” Maloney said. “We want 
to win with the people we have here.”
The crux of that effort should be 6-9, 
210-pound center Paul Hamerly, of Penn 
Hills, Pa., who was named to the Presi­
dents’ Athletic Conference first team as a 
sophomore last season.
“Offensively, we’ve got to get the ball 
to Hamerly, but we’re going to run every 
chance we get and our guards should be 
getting their share of shots.”___________
WOMEN'S VARSITY PRACTICES
Women's Tennis: 4:30 - 6:00 Mon. & Fri.
10:00 - 12:00 Sat. 
Women's Volleyball: 6:00 - 7:30 Tues.
4:30-6:00 Friday 
Women's Field Hockey: 4:30 - 6:00 Tues.
4:40-6:00 Weds.
& T)-6 00 Tburs.
All women undergraduates are encour­
aged to attend practices. The skills can be 
learned at practice.
WRCT STAFF MEETING
September 17 
7:30 P.M.
Wherrett Room, Skibo
If you're interested in radio--announcing, 
newscasting, engineering, public relations-come to the 
meeting this Wednesday. Find out how you can 
become a member of the WRCT staff.

---------------------------------------------------

Page 14-THE TARTAN-September 16, 1975
Spirit vs. Oakland Dolphins in IM practice Photo by. Elliot Popowitz
TENNIS COURTS TIMETABLE
New Coaches Bring New Look
I.M.'s Begin cont
The referees will be from the Officials 
Club of the Activities Board with each 
team providing one official for games other 
than those in which the officials own team 
is playing.
There will be 32 teams this year com­
pared to the 33 teams of last year. The de­
fending champions of last year will com­
pete in their same respective leagues this 
season,they are: Minor League-ZBT;
Intermediate league-ATO; Major Leaque - Pi 
Kappa Alpha. These teams will be attemp­
ting to retain their titles and receive the 
Champions’ trophies at the end of the 
season. Jive Turkey, one of the 32 teams, 
will hold a title of their own. They are the 
first I.M. touch football team to have 
women players. The season should be 
interesting.
A vital ingredient for the continued 
success of the Intramural program is parti­
cipation. As Mr. Birdy, Director of Intra­
mural Athletics, states it, “For the size of 
our student body, I think we have one of 
the best Intramural Programs in the coun­
try. In 32 different activities last year 70% 
of the school’s males participated in at 
least one activity.” Everyone is encour­
aged to participate.
Monday and Wednesday:
10:30 -12:30 (classes) 
4:30 - 7:30 (varsity) 
Tuesday, Thursday and Friday:
10:30 - 12:30 (classes) 
4:30 - 7:00 (intramural)
Saturday:
10:00-12:00 (varsity) 
All varsity players reserve the right to 
finish all challenge matches (best 2 out of 3 
sets) regardless of time restraints.
NEWS AND NOTES:
—Activities Board meeting has been 
changed from 12:30 on Tuesday to 4:30 
Tuesday afternoons.
—Intramural Sports coming up are: 
Co-Rec volleyball, Cross Country, Water 
Polo, and Chess. Pick up your entry blanks 
in room 104, in the Gym. Prepare early, 
entries are due Tuesday, September 30 in 
room 104 Gym.
—For the golf enthusiasts, the I.M. 
matches will be played in Schenley Park. 
The deadline for golf entries has been post­
poned a week. There is still time to get a 
team together (minimum 4 players, maxi­
mum 8).
by Gerry Fraley
Saturday’s season opening victory by 
Carnegie-Mellon over Washington and 
Jefferson by a 7-0 score was the baptism 
of a new look f>. r Tech football. Part of the 
new look is the addition of five assistant 
coaches.
Jim Youngblood, Bill Englert, Dennis 
Creehan, Dennis Morabito, and Dave De- 
Camilla are all new additions to the Tech 
staff. They bring with them experience in 
big time college football along with an en­
thusiasm that has been long missing in 
Tech football.
Englert and Creehan are both defectors 
from the staff of Johnny Majors at Pitt. 
Both are from the Western Pennsylvania 
area, Englert played his college football at 
Pitt, Creehan at Edinboro, and are working 
with the offense.
DeCamilla was a three-year starter at the 
University of South Carolina as offensive 
tackle. His previous coaching position was 
at Carroll College, Waukesha. Wis. and he
has given the job of shoring up an offensive 
line that was nothing less than porous last 
season.
The unlikely combination of defensive 
line coach and sports information director 
is Morabito’s job. Also from Western Penn­
sylvania, he played his high school ball at 
Kiski Area and was a four starter for Carne­
gie-Mellon from 1966 to 1969. He derives 
his credentials as sports information direc­
tor following a four year stint with the 
Pittsburgh Bureau of the United Press In­
ternational.
Youngblood is perhaps the most ob­
vious of the new assistants. A member of 
the West Virginia University staff the last 
two seasons, he is the defensive coor­
dinator for the Tartans. He has been in 
coaching for ten years and although he has 
a Masters in safety education, recklessness 
is his trademark. He is the head motivator 
of the new look.
This new group has the task of making 
football viable at Tech. Only a future of 
wins can accomplish this.
B’NAI B’RITH HILLEL-JEWISH UNIVERSITY CENTER
MONDAY - SEPTEMBER 22-8 P.M.
General Moshe Dyan - Former Minister of Defense
will speak at
SOLDIERS AND SAILORS MEMORIAL HALL
SPONSORED BY PITT HILLEL CLUB
and
UNIVERSITY OF PITTSBURGH
Limited tickets ($3.00) are available at the 
Pitt Student Union Ticket Office.
315 S. BELLEFIELD AVENUE (Across from Heinz 
Chapel) 621-8875
The University Oratory 
the Holy Spirit Parish 
CMU CAMPUS
The Catholic University Parish of the Diocese of Pittsburgh was created in 1967 to meet the 
special needs and aspirations of a seeking and learning community. Through worship, study,
Retreats and a wide program of other activities, the University Oratory seeks to serve the 
students and faculty of the Oakland area. Students! this is your parish. You are asked to join 
your parish not by accident of territorial boundaries but gy free choice and are invited to 
help determine its policies, programs and worskhp by contributing your vision and hopes.
Tech House was born as a viable community where students can live, work and pray 
together, and has become the ‘ocal point of the parish's presence on Campus.
Mass Sckedule:
Saturday, 7:00 P.M.
Sunday, 10:30 A.M.
Tech House
5125 Margaret Morrison 
(Refreshments following)
Science Hall 
Room 7500
Weekdays, 5:00 P.M. 
Tech House
5125 Margaret Morrison 
(Next to Donner Hall)
Tech House 
Mondays - Fridays
Fr. John Walsh 
Fr. Bob English 
Phone: 621-2911

---------------------------------------------------

THE TARTAN—September 16, 1975—Page 15
e
Jhe Art of Karate 
<1
by Fred Shamlian
The CMU Karate Club is a very close 
group. When you observe the advanced 
class (those who have practiced for more 
than one semester) in training, you can 
^ sense the bond between them. Yet there is 
a great disparity in rank here. Brown belts 
practice with white belts and with those 
who as yet possess no rank. They are a 
team, working together, learning from each 
other. And after they work, they party. 
And picnic. And dine. And even go roller- 
skating.
As members of Shotokan Karate of 
America, a national non-profit organiza­
tion directed by Mr. Ohshima, CMU club 
^ members may practice with the Pitt and 
Duquesne karate clubs or with any of the 
other SKA clubs across the country. Dues 
are $27.50 a semester. They are used to 
maintain SKA, to help pay Mr. Ohshima’s 
and other black belts teaching and travel 
expenses, and to help pay for the news­
letter, equipment and books. The CMU 
® club is very fortunate to have in Pitts- 
burgh Mr. Sadaharu Honda, fourth dan. 
There are only two fourth degree black 
belts in the SKA in the United States. Mr. 
Honda directs the SKA dojo in East Lib­
erty and sets the standards of training at 
the school clubs through intensive work­
outs with club instructors and visits to the 
university trainings. Students may also 
^ > train with Mr. Honda at the dojo.
> The Karate Club will hold beginners’ 
classes for the fall starting Thursday, Sep­
tember 18, at 6:30 p.m. Practices are held 
throughout the year in Thistle Hall (adja­
cent to the main basketball court in the 
gym) at the following times: Tuesday and 
Thursday evenings, 6:30-8:30 p.m., and 
Saturday mornings, 11:30-l :30. Be sure to 
^ >wear loose clothing. No experience is ne- 
^cessary and everyone is welcome.
IM Activities Board
by Jim Balik
The following are the newly elected 
^officers for the Intramural Activities Board 
this school year:
President - Paul Sielski 
Vice-President - Jay Harper 
Secretary -Steve Belanich 
Officials Club President - Jim Natalo 
Members of this year’s Intramural Acti­
vities Board:#
$KS
PKA
PKT
SAE
SN
DU
Dorms 
Grads 
Commuters 
At Large
Mike Zidanic 
Mark Vranderic 
Bob Matysek 
Mike Rish 
Jim Freedmen 
Bob Accarino 
Allan Goodfellow 
Pete Hoysan 
Jim Natalo 
^ Sanford Rivers
% The function of the Activities Board is 
to govern activities in the Intramural pro­
gram. Mr. Birdy who is the Director of In­
tramural Athletics is the supervisor of the 
entire program and any questions pertain­
ing to the program should be addressed to 
him, room 104 in the Gym, or to Paul 
^Sielski in the Delta Upsilon fraternity. 
^____________________________________
SWIM TEAM TRYOUTS
Meetiny at 3 45 Wednesday, September 17 
a I the poo!. A!! interested are encouraged 
to.attenc
Women's Sports 
Brief
The "K¡ai" or yelt allows an intense concentration of force in an attackPhoto by. Fred Shamlian
Cross Country 
is Running
by Stacey Kimbell
The Cross-Country team, the autumn 
representative of the CMU track team, be­
gins its competitive meets‘this Saturday, 
September 20 at 11:30 a.m. against Jean­
nette Harriers.
Last season the team was entirely fresh­
man athletes. They won nine out of their 
twelve meets and came in fourth in the 
President’s Athletic Conference, an extra­
ordinarily fine record for such a young 
club.
This year Cross-Country has 14 team 
members who average 80 miles a week in 
practice. During a meet they run seven man 
teams. The first five to cross the finish line 
are the men who place.
Coach Meckley who is looking forward 
to a successful year with the new recruits 
as well as the seasoned runners says, “The 
runners travel 4.3 miles. They begin and re­
turn at the same point some 22 minutes 
later so cross-country is not the most 
accessible of spectator sports. However, it 
is exhilarating for its participants. We meet 
daily in the gym at 4:30 if anyone is inter­
ested in joining the team or even to just 
train with the team.” The cross-country 
course is through Schenley Park origin­
ating at the foot of Flagstaff Hill.
The schedule for meets at CMU is:
9/20 v. Jeannette Harriers 11:30 a.m.
9/20 v. Westminster 3:30 p.m.
10/4 v. Hiram 11:30 a.m.
10/24 v. John Carroll-Thiel 4:00 p.m.
By Crystal Hoffman
The women’s varsity tennis team had an 
excellent turnout of eleven returning team 
members and twelve new players. All 
four singles players from last year have re­
turned this season. They are respectively 
Elly Zimmerman, Ellen Bernstein, Robin 
Klar and Ann Kramer. The team is looking 
iorward to their first home match against 
Indiana on Sept. 24 at 4:30.
Thirteen players came out for the field 
hockey team. In spite of the torrential 
downpour last Thursday and the construc­
tion on Fine Arts lawn, the team is working 
hard toward their first game. The first 
game is on Sept. 20, at 1:30 at Chatham 
Field against the Pittsburgh Field Hockey 
Assoc. Returning players include Cindy 
Marburger, Polly Nuller, Kim Roush,
Nancy Lyons and Pat MacGarland.
The • women’s volleyball team has 
started their practices early this year to 
prepare for the West Virginia invitational 
Volleyball Tournament on Oct. 3-4. Only 
seven players have tried out for the team so 
far. Returning players are Judy Parker, 
Karlene Morgan and Elly Zimmerman. 
The team has prospects for a winning 
season because of the quality of the new 
plavers.
Last year the women’s varsity volleyball 
team won the California State Volleyball 
Tournament involving eleven area colleges 
The team, to ready itself for the new sea­
son, has been practicing intricate plays in­
volving sets and spikes. The graduation of 
the team’ primary setter, Mercedes 
Rodriquez, has left the setter position 
open. Anyone interested in volleyball is en­
couraged to try out for the team. The first 
home game will be Nov. 5 at 5:30 against 
W&J and Thiel. .
? ????????????? w w
* WYDD (FREE FORM) AND JAMES WHOLEY PROD, 
f presents
TENNIS INTRAMURALS
Tennis intramurals will start on Tuesday, 
September 16 from 4:30 to 7:30 pm. The 
tennis IM Commissioner is Russ Winer.
FREE PREGNANCY 
TESTS
ALLEGHENY WOMEN'S 
CENTER 
MON.-FRI. 9-5 SAT. 8-4
FOR INFO:
362-2920
; # THE FLYING BURRITO BROS.
*
*
*
*
*
*
*
*
*
*
*
*
*
SNEAKY PETE • CHRIS EThERIDGE • GENE PARSONS 
• GIB GILBEAU • JOEL SCOTTHILL
^ John Sebastian
PLUS CHRISTOPHERS RYE
SEPT. 26 SYRIA MOSQUE
Tickets 3.50,4.50.5.50 
6.00 AT DOOR
AVAILABLE NOW AT ALL NATIONAL RECORD MARTS 
A LEGEND IN COUNTRY MUSIC
*
*
*
*
*
*
*
*
*
*
*
*
*
*
*
*
*
‘aQ
INTRODUCING...
THE NEWIweecl/lcp
EXCEPTIONAL QUALITY CLOTHES 
AT REASONABLE PRICES
JEANS
DENiMS
5550 CENTRE AVENUE Near Corner of Negley)
OPEN: 10 7 MONDAY - TUESDAY
10-9 WEDNESDAY - THURSDA Y FRIDAY
10-5 SATUROAY
FttEf PARKINGPHONE 441-6775

---------------------------------------------------

Page 16-THE TARTAN-September 16,1975
-f------------- S^ember 17Tlie Way We Were (¿L Still Are)
24
The Sexual System»October 1 
Male Sexuality
8Iemale Sexuality
15Sexual Activityat*Preventive Hedkuie?39€ Aoutracc|>tioii~Coiitiiiuccl i\ovendierS 
IVc^iiaiicy&CliikllHrili12
Homosexuality
19Sex iA the Law
ALL LECTURES ON CONSECUTIVE WEDNESDAYS,(EXCEPT FOR PREVENTIVE MEDICINE?'1 TUESDAY, OCTOBER 21) AT 7PM IN BREED HALL, MARGARET MORRISON BUILDINÒ. FOR BROCHURE CONTACT STUDENT ACTIVITIES. SKIBO 103. X2l4
Sponsored by the Department of Student Activities
