GET YOUR TICKET FOE 
THE SOPH HOP NOW 
—BEFORE YOU FORGET
SPECIAL PROGRAM AT 
GENERAL ASSEMBLY 
NEXT TUESDAY, NEW GYM
VOL. XVIII NO. 25CARNEGIE INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY, PITTSBURGH, PENNSYLVANIATUESDAY, MARCH 18, 1924
SENIORS ANNEX 
SILVER CUP AT 
SCIENCE STAG
Five Hundred Science Men 
Attend the Engineering 
Frolic of 1924—Football 
Movies Thrown on Screen
SCHEDULE COUNCIL PRES
DENT NOMINATIONS FOR 1
The date for nominations for presi­
dent o£ the Student Council has been 
shifted from March 25 to April 1. The 
nominations will be made in the di­
visional assemblies of that date and 
each school will elect its candidate 
from the men nominated sometime la­
ter in the week.
- GEN. ASSEMBLY 
NEXT TUESDAY 
IN GYMNASIUM
INDUSTRIES ASSEMBLY
TO VOTE ON NEW PLAN
SOPH HOP TICKETS 
NOW AVAILABLE
Four Entertainment Numbers 
Feature Program—Attend­
ance Expected to Eclipse All 
FormerRecordsatAssembly
The College of Industries will hold ( 
an assembly today to continue the | 
discussion of tlie proposed constitu-1 
tion changing the form of govern­
ment from that of an assembly to 
that of the Senate type. Any changes 
and revisions will be discussed and 
a vote will be taken upon its adop­
tion.
If the constitution is adopted, the 
College of Industries will take its 
place ‘beside the College of Engi­
neering and of Fine Arts as a Sen­
ate governed institution.
INDUSTRIES TO 
HOLD SMOKER 
ON MARCH 25
ELECTIONS POPULAR
The Engineering Seniors were 
awarded the prize silver cup at the 
1924 Science stag, which was held 
last Saturday evening in the Union.
The frolic began promptly at eight 
o'clock with the orchestra opening 
the program, and ended with the 
serving of food on the Commons, 
when the winners of the popularity 
contest were announced by Tiny 
Nesbit and the prizes tendered the 
lucky ones by Russ Patton amid the 
applause of the audience of five hun­
dred Engineers.
Professor ‘‘Hap'” Hower and Bob 
Waddell furnished the oratory for 
the evening and each delivered a 
talk that received the interested at­
tention of every man in the audi­
ence. Professor Hower explained thé 
I intricacies and peculiarities which 
influence a young man in the selec­
tion of his college course and his 
life work; while Bob Waddell spilled 
some football dope about the past 
gridiron season and about the hard­
ships to be encountered in the 1024 
football campaign.
The Freshman stunt was divided 
into two parts and consisted of a 
“Mock Plebe Trial” and a “Hair 
Raising Death • Defying Leap” by 
Dare Devil Daniel. ” The Sopho­
mores put on a "Meier Drainer” en­
titled ‘Trust in the Lord and He 
Will Provide.” The Juniors staged 
a 1924 edition of the “Skibo Village 
Follies" including their ' own four- 
piece orchestra.
The prize winning , act staged by 
the 'Seniors was a reproduction of a 
meeting of the “School Discipline 
Committee.” A1 Minetti featured 
this stunt and his cleyer, work made 
the judge’s problem of selecting the 
winners of the silver cup easier. 
Al’s slogan in this scene will be a 
campus byword for months to come. 
(Continued on.Page Four.)
Union Will be Scene of the 
Industries Frolic on Next 
Tuesday Night—Eats, 
Drinks and Smokes
ELECT C. C. BRUMBAUGH
TO ATHLETIC COUNCIL
The final ballot on the nominations 
for Athletic Council representative 
from Science resulted in the election 
of C. C. Brumbaugh, Mechanical Engi­
neering Senior. \
The election of Sophomore olllcers 
rosulted in the selection of .Toe Ward 
for Secretary and F. W. Cooke as 
Science Senate Representative.
Big Demand For Tickets to WILL LAST ONE HOUR
See Harmon and Dramats 
at Soph Hop
Suggestions Wanted 
Soph-Plebe Banquets
Discipline Committee Ruling 
Cause of Open Banquets
The tickets for the Soph Hop the 
night of March 28, at the Hotel- Schen- 
ley have now been on sale for several 
days. All reports from the commit­
tee planning the Sophomore’s annual 
affair have been highly illuminating 
—the reports are that the tickets are 
going fast because of the keen inter­
est felt in regard to this frolic, and 
that because of the great demand for 
tickets, some limitations in attend­
ance will be set.
These two factors of demand and 
supply must therefore influence the 
sale. If you don’t want to miss one 
of the most enjoj-able evenings of the 
year 1924, get your ticket right away.
Paul Bowron is chairman of the 
committee and representatives of the 
Sophomore Class in Arts, Science, In­
dustries, and M. M. C. C. have charge 
of the sale of tickets. See them at 
your earliest opportunity.
For the benefit of those who never 
read the Tartan and know little con­
cerning the entertainment offered by 
the Sophomore Class, review of the 
program will be given once more.
Dave Harman’s kings of melody 
from Williamsport, will provide the 
same memorable music that delighted 
everyone at the Men’s Junior Prom. 
It is only on rare occasions that a 
Tech organization offers an orchestra 
of such high merit. Their fame is 
widespread,
Our own Dramats, perhaps not so 
famous as Dave Harmon’s aggrega- 
tion, but just as deeply appreciated, 
will put on a new act during the in­
termission. However, details have not 
been forthcoming from the Dramats, 
themselves.
The tickets are only $3.00. Delay 
may mean disappointment, so get the 
girl and the ticket right away.
Students. Selling.
Margaret Morrison.
Madeline Dale, Louise Benson, Bar- 
(Continued on Pafe Four.)
Now that the Plebes and Sopho­
mores have both held their banquets 
in the open and with a great deal of 
publicity it is time perhaps that the 
reason l'or the open banquets be ex­
plained. The open banquets are not 
at all popular here on'the campus and 
the Student Council is generally re­
ceiving the blame for such a condi­
tion. The aim of this article is not to 
argue pro or con on the advisability 
of the Piebes and Sophomores having 
secret banquets, but it is the aim to 
state the facts.
The reason that the Plebe and 
Sophomore banquets have not been se­
cret this year lies in a recent ruling 
of the Discipline Committee, which is 
composed of four faculty members 
and one student member. The ruling 
of the committee which bears on the 
subject prohibits any student or group 
of students from keeping any student 
or group of students from attending 
classes and it carries a severe penal­
ty for infringement. This, of course, 
makes it impossible for one class to 
take the president of the other class 
before the last class on the day of the 
banquet and there is nothing to pre­
vent the president from cutting class- 
; and leaving school early in the day 
or even the day before the banquet. 
Since it has been found in the past 
that it is impossible to keep the time 
of a banquet secret longer than up 
to two or three days before the date 
on which the banquet is to be held, it 
is practically impossible for one class 
to capture the president of the other 
class. This takes away the need or 
interest in a secret banquet.
(Continued on Page Three.)
M. M. Sophs Make Good 
On Bake Sale Saturday
The M. M. Sophomore Bake Sale 
went over with a bang! There was 
much scurrying at 5:30 Saturday 
morning in Forbes Hall where all 
the food was stored, and some girls 
who had never seen the sun rise saw 
it Saturday when the early group 
went down to the Diamond Market 
at 6:00 o’clock to arrange the pro­
ducts in an attractive display. The 
counter was piled high with cakes, 
cookies, pies, rolls and candy at 
6:30, but it immediaetly began to 
disappear -is the money drawer fill­
ed. 3y noon the counter was clear­
ed.
Credit is due the splendid work- 
;Of the committee as a whole under 
ithe chairman, Elizabeth Schwartz, 
inti especially to Mary Dale who 
•‘(Continued on Page Three.)
Next Tuesday at 11:30 a. in., in 
the new Carnegie Gym will be held 
another General Assembly of the 
entire student body. The program 
has been careully planned and is 
composed almost entirely of enter­
tainment.
FEATURE PROGRAM OF 
STUNTS AND MUSIC
Jazz Music by Carnegie 
Troubadors.
Presentation to Dr. Baker.
Selection by Orchestra. 
Announcements.
¦ Song Sketch by Spindler and ¦ 
Alderdice.
Musical Skit by Hazel Brown ¦ 
and Peg Eckhardt.
BEAUTY CONTEST 
AGAIN UNDER WAY
Girls Are Complimented by 
Coles Phillips For 
Their Beauty
Obie Newman, Himself. 
Alma Mater.
The Carnegie Troubadors, Obie 
Newman, Bud Stindler, Bob Alder- 
(Continued on Page Two.)
Concessions for C. W. 
To be Given Out Soon
Applications Should be Made 
Before Monday, March 24
OVER HALF OF PLEBES 
ENROLLED IN R.O.T.C.
About 57 per cent of the present 
Freshman class in the College of En­
gineering and the College of Indus­
tries are enrolled in the R. O. T. C. 
Therefore, recent data received from 
the office of the Chief of Engineer ! 
contains items of interest to all Car­
negie students.
There are twenty-one colleges and 
schools in the United States that have 1 
Engineer Units, R. O. T. C. At all 
of these except Carnegie, Johns Hop­
kins, Yale, and University of Kansas. 
R. O. T. C. is compulsory for the first 
two years, and at Virginia Polytechnic 
and Virginia Military Institute, it is 
compulsory for the last two yearn.
The enrollment of the departments 
from which engineer R. O. T. C. stu­
dents may be drawn, varies from 127 
at U. M. I. to 2900 at Massachusetts 
Tech, an.average of.665 per institu 
tion, and a total of 13,958. *" Carnegie 
has 1034 degree day students in the 
departments from which Engineer, 
Signal and Quartermaster Corps stu­
dents may be enrolled, and has a to­
tal R. O. T. C. enrollment of 303, in­
cluding the Engineer Unit enrollment 
of 136. The percentage, then, in 
terms of students available is only 13 
per cent, which does not compare fa­
vorably with the average of 28 per 
cent in the complete number of 21 in­
stitutions. This percentage is third 
from the lowest.
Carnegie Engineer Unit ties for first 
place in--the percentage of students in 
the two advanced years compared 
with those in the two basic years, and 
its standing in all other respects is 
good.
It is therefore necessary to increase 
the number of Engineer R. O. T. C. 
units by increasing the enrollment, oi- 
by transferring the unit to some other 
college.
Midwest Club to Make 
Inspection Trip Saturday
HEAR THE MOONLIGHT MAID!
The Midwest Club will visit the 
Heinz plant next Saturday morning. 
All midwesterners wishing to go, 
should meet the group at Penn and 
Seventh avenues at 9:30 in the morn­
ing.
This inspection trip is the first of a 
series of similar trips to be taken by 
the club. Most of the students are' 
from the far west and it is not prob­
able that they will have an opportun­
ity to return east very soon after leav­
ing school. For this reason the club 
plans to visit as many places of inter­
est as possible. Steel mills, mines, 
observatory, WestinghoUse and other 
places are on the tentative inspection 
trip list.
Concessions for the Fifth Annual 
Campus Week will be given out at the 
next meeting of the general commit­
tee which will be held Tuesday, 25. 
All applications for concessions 
must be in the hands of the commit­
tee on or beforo Monday the 24th. A 
concession for a check booth will be 
given this year also. There are many 
people who wish to check their wraps 
and bundles, rather than carry them 
around the campus, and tills conces­
sion will take care of them. Address 
all applications to Hoffer Sload, as­
sistant chairman of'' the general 
campus week committee.
The plan for this year’s Campus 
Week decorations has been tentative­
ly decided upon, but it will not be an­
nounced just at present. It will bo 
something new; so new as to be' 
taken from the future, instead of tlio 
moldy past.
All the artistic appreciation and 
aesthetic tendencies of the students 
will be given wide scope in the selec­
tions of costumes for the Mardi Gras, 
for you can’t go wrong with our deco­
rations.
The program is rapidly being filled 
in. Some new events are being 
planned, and they’re going to be 
knockouts. Incidently Sam Dyke’s 
committee is going to fill a long felt 
want. How? Wait and see.
A list of the sub-committees and 
their chairman follows:
Campus Week Committees.
General Planning Committee—E. P. 
Couse, Jr., Ch., R. Rutilu, Wm. Ahearn, 
Rosslyn Doyle, J. Carr. W. F. Koppes,
Social Committee—Chas. IT. James, 
Ch., Phil Rassbach. Maxwell Scrim- 
ceour, Edith Schultis, Elizabeth Kie­
fer.
Publicity Committee — Fred C. 
Smith, Ch., A. S. Andrews, E. C. Fra­
zier. A. E. Krogh, W. Winning, H. N. 
Smith.
Electrical Construction—R. A. Gar- 
bett. Ch., W. C. Goughnour, Asst. Ch.,
G. B. McElheny. J. O. Anderson. P M. 
Hisson. W. J. Lyman, J. D. Seabert, 
P. C. Cromwell. H. A. Neutzenholzer, 
O. W. Will, F. C. Joynt, J. C. Schuch- 
ert.
Construction Committee—Chas J. 
Kuhn, Ch.. D. H. Gatwalls, J. J. Gal­
vin, F. H. Kitchell, R. W. Goetz. W H. 
Justice, C. Schraeder, R. E. Hughes. 
Chairman, Mary •Steumpfle, Dave Gar­
ber. Carey Proctor, Strong, Vernon 
Haldine.
Sweepstakes Committee—William 
Fencil, Chairman. Vernon L. Wend- 
landt, Albert Thomas. L. F. Vogt.
Burlesque Committee—Sam Dyke, 
Ch., Tiny Nesble, Pat Ryan, Dutch 
Zelt. Doc Taylor.
Girls' Committee—Mary Hellig.Oh 
Mary Speers, Sweepstakes; Mary Tay­
lor, Dot Chalmers, Athletics; Dot 
Smallhorst. Frnnces MeClymonds. 
Banquet; Jane Markell. Eleanor Meck- 
lenberg, Bertha Ohrmnn. Dot Weber, 
Coronation; Ellen Eyeman, Janet 
j Mlllis, Dot Diamond. Isobel Sowash, 
I Treasurer.; Sarah Sussman. Secre­
tary; Esther Johnson. Assistant 
1 Treasurer; Dot omallhorst, Assistant 
! Ch. Design.
After a sleep of a few months,, 
the Beauty Contest awoke with a 
jump last week, and is about to be 
completed. The pictures have been 
sent to two of the judges, and the 
reply from one has Deen received, 
and is printed herewith.
The following letter came from 
Coles Phillips, who was the first 
judge to see the pictures of the forty 
girls who have been chosen from 
the number received by the editor: 
My dear Mr. Harris:
I have greatly enjoyed sorting out 
my six selections for your beauty 
contest. Permit me to compliment 
Carnegie Institute upon the beauty 
of its girls.
If I had the opportunity of meet­
ing the girls, the selections might 
be different, for, of course, the con­
ditions under which 1 am working 
the photographers' job must of ne­
cessity play an important part.
I sincerely hope the awards will 
he popular with the students, for 1 
have done my best to visualizo those 
beauties in order to discover as far 
as possible the injustice that pho­
tographs occasionally do.
Cordially yours,
COLES PHILLIPS.
The selections are excellent, from 
the point of view of those connected 
with the • contest, .for In some cases 
the choice is the samo as that made 
by Mr. Ashe, Jerry, Stye and the 
Editor. There are two deviations 
from the selections of theso men 
from Carnegie Teish, but as tho 
Grape Nujt ad bays, "There's a 
Reason.”
The pictures are now in the 
hands of Charles Dana Gibson, and 
tho Editor oxpects to havo a report 
from him by the end of tho week. 
Next week Tartan will print tho let­
ter from this judge, and, after the 
last letter has come in, tho Tartan 
will disclose the winners of' tho con­
test.
It Is ho'pod that tho alwards may 
be mado at a General Assembly ear­
ly In April, or at a special assom- 
(Continued on Pago Two.)
WELL ALL BE THERE'
FOOLS' DAY TO BE 
STAGED ON APR.
Remember the date, March 25. 
Let’s go and make this a real “bang- 
up” good time at the Industries 
smoker.
All the classes wilt be tliero sup­
porting their respective acts.
Tlie Seniors are putting oh a real 
Yiddish sketch with the well known 
name of Gallagher and Sliean. Two of 
their class, who are especially cap­
able, will lend real color to the act.
The Junior class is preparing for a 
race that promises to be tlie nearest 
thing to real exsitenient since Campus 
Week. In fact it will rival the sweep­
stakes, if one can judge by tho exten­
sive preparations.
The Soph’s act still remains a se­
cret, but from that quarter of the col­
lege we expect great things.
Other attractions are: “Obie” New­
man, movies, boxing, a good jazz orch­
estra, and plenty to eat and smoko.
After a good appetite has boon 
"laughed up", there will bo doughnuts 
and punch a-plenty to satisfy the most 
man-size hunger. Fostor told the re­
porter confidentially that tho punch 
would contain all that is necessary 
to mako It real pro-Volstoad punch. 
Now don’t spread this tip around be­
cause the Union can hold only a lim­
ited number.
Leave tho old corn cob at homo on 
tho 25th and come to tho Industries 
Smoker prepared for h big tlmo. All 
the fellows will bo thoro.
Contestants to Parade at 
Noon and Winners Will 
Have Picture Taken
LANTERNS ARE 
READY TO BE 
LIT FOR BALL
Orchestra Composed of Music 
Students to Furnish Music 
For “Joy of the Lanterns”— 
Novel Dance is Feature
DUES MUST BE PAID
Railroad Problem Will 
Be Lecture Subject
SEE THE WHIMSICAL WOMEN!
INTERCOLLEGIATE HOP AT
WILKINSBURG SATURDAY
An Tntercol’egiate Hop of students 
at P'tt and Carnegie is to be griven 
j at the Masonic Temple. Wilkinsburg, 
Saturday night. The Tartans are to 
provide the music. Tickets are priced 
at $1.65. Harold Cottrell. S’ofence 
Sophomore, is in charge of distribu­
tion of tickets.
Campus Comment
By SARA MAE EVERETT
it is just two more months until 
Campus Week and the election of 
our 1924 Queen. How are we going 
to vote for her? By what standards 
shall she be judged, and who shall 
say which standards are the right 
standards? After all, that is what 
we are all striving for, the right of 
a matter.
Shall our queen be representative 
of the beauty at Carnegie or shall 
she be the most popular and the 
best known girl on our campus.
Think hard and then be ready to 
give your honest opinion and vote 
accordingly. Which girl most truly 
represents Carnegie, the girl coldly 
judged ¡by traditional standards of 
beauty, or the girl whose virtues are 
exalted and whose defects are hid­
den in a warm flood of universal ad­
miration?
As far as that goes, do the two 
have anything in common? Is there 
any connection between beauty and 
popularity? Popularity and attrac­
tiveness yes, but beauty and popu­
larity—not necessarily.
The most beautiful girl at Carne­
gie may be shy, • retiring and not 
even active on the campus. A very 
popular, interesting girl may have 
really homely features.
How then, shall we judge her? I 
am putting the matter to you frank­
ly, and here is your chance to dis­
prove the rash statement made by 
somebody that 
‘‘The modern college student is 
never known to think.”
ft Is your college, your queen, 
your campus week, ’ and It Is your 
real opinion 1 want. The beauty 
contest, with Its cup for tho win­
ning contestant has been established 
as a new tradition. In it the girls 
are judged by photographs, sent to 
famous artists. They are judged 
solely by facial beauty. This pre­
sents the idea that perhaps there 
could develop a popularity contest, 
producing the Campus Queen, or, 
Queen of Campus Week. That would 
separate the two, and Carnegie would 
then have two outstanding girls, the 
most beautiful and the most popular 
Perhaps that would eliminate 
much doubt and make the choice 
easier, for we always color our 
(Continued on Page Two.)
Former Yale President 
Discuss Questions
to
A fiorio8 of throo publld lectures 
on "The Railroad Problem In Its 
Broader Aspects", will bo given in tho 
Union beginning next Wednesday, 
night, by Dr. Arthur T. I-Iudloy, a for- 
mor prosidonL of Yalo University.
Since • Pittsburgh is the central ra­
diating point for six major railroads 
of tho country, tho concorn ovor the 
economic problems of the railroads Is 
consldorod to bo moro sorlously foil 
hero than In any othor part of tho 
country. Tho preliminary announce* 
mont of Dr. Hadley’s engagements 
has already stirred up, much Interest 
In tho district., according to a report 
from tho Inslltuto authorities, and 
largo audiences are oxpoctcd to at­
tend tho sorles.
On the subjoct of railroad problems, 
the opinions of no economist In this 
country, probably, are considered with 
moro respect than aro those of Dr. 
Hadley. Sinco his retirement from 
the presidency of Yale In 1021, ho has 
retained prominouce in tho public eye 
largely through his expressions either 
in writings or on the public platform 
regarding civic and political prob­
lems. Of transportation and its exi­
gencies, ho has boen a life-long stu 
dent.
Dr. Hadley was the son of a "Yale 
professor and was himself graduated 
from Yale in 1876, with highest hon­
ors. After a year’s study at the Uni­
versity of Berlin, he returned to his 
alma mater, in 1879, as a tutor. His 
progress was rapid as a member of 
the faculty, serving in turn as lec­
turer on railroad transportation, pro­
fessor of political science and pro­
fessor of political economy until in 
1899, he was elqpted president.
Tho topics under the general sub­
ject are announced as follows: Wed­
nesday, March 19, “Railroad Transpor­
tation and National Development;" 
Thursday, March 20, “Principles and 
Practice in Railroad Rate Making"; 
Friday, March 21, “Methods op Gov­
ernment Control.”
The lectures will be given at 8:30 
each evening in the Union; in the Cen­
tral Building. No tickets’ of admis­
sion are required.
That the annual Poverty Day exer­
cises will assumo the form of Fool’s 
Day thi3 yoar is an assumed fact. The 
Student Council has recommended it 
and the Faculty approved it. The 
date set for the exercises is April 1, 
which is very appropriato in that it 
Is tho original Fool’s Day.
This year the Plebes will be attired 
in only those costumes wliiqli will not 
in m\y way shock the public and any 
costume may bo worn so long as it 
does not border on tho rules of pro­
priety. Tho main idea is to design a 
clover costume rather than a scanty 
one. There will bo a committee of 
consor which will pass upon all cos­
tumes beforo they will bo allowed to 
appear in public.
To the prosont Freshmen class this 
should bo a host of fun as die wholo 
class participates and l'or tho host cos- 
tumoB in each college there is a cer­
tain recognition glvou by tho Fresh­
men Regulation committoo. To havo 
ono of tho host costumes should bo 
tho aim of every Plebe for It Is six 
weeks from thon unti! QualIdeation 
Day.
in the past It lias boon customary 
to have a parade at tho noon hour and 
that tho various assemblies choose 
tho best costumes. Those winners 
aro taken to a joint mooting of all 
those judged host and pictures aro 
taken by tho city .newspapers. The 
classes should got together and dis­
cuss some now and novel display to 
see If they cannot croato a now and 
botto;' ovont.
The succosa of this annual tradi­
tion In the past has been largely due 
to the good support given by the girls. 
Some of tho cleverest costumes last 
year wore worn by tho girls and this 
year it Is hoped that they will talco 
tho same Interest In the ovont,
COMBINED CLUBS TO 
HOLD HOME CONCERT
Tho homo concort this yoar wilt 
be something entirely unprecedented 
In the history of Carnegie Tech. In 
previous years there has boon some 
talk of holding a Joint homo concort 
Instead of separate Musical Club af­
fairs, but until this yoar no definito 
stop has boon taken.
On May 2, in the Carnegie Music 
Hall, I,ho Men's Musical Clubs and 
the Girls’ Gloo Club and Stringers 
will givo a program reprosontotlv 
of tho excellence of thoso individu­
al bodies. It is expected thaL tho 
novel affair will attract u large 
crowd, on account of tho interest in 
• he dlfforCnt organizations, and tho 
fame of tliolr successful season. A 
special feature will add to tho en­
joyment of thè occasion.
Ater tlio concert, a dance will be 
held in the ball room of the Schen- 
ley.
The Musical Clubs dances, especial­
ly those hold after the home concert, 
have a reputation for being decided­
ly popular.
More extensive plans for tho con­
cert and dance will he forthcoming.
CHAPEL THURSDAY 12:50
ATTENDANCE OVER 300
Let’s keep up the good attendance. 
Last week the chapel was full.
The speaker for next. Thursday will 
be Rev. John S. Allison of the North 
Avenue M. E. Church, North Side, 
Rev, Mr. Allison has a great many 
young people and students In Ills 
home congregation, and Is well pro 
pared to talk on Interesting and In­
structive subjects.
All of the special Lenten services, 
from now until Easter, will bo under 
the leadership of prominent and in­
teresting men, secured by Mr, Davis 
of our Tech Y. M. C. A.
SPANISH DRAMA
Act I—Bull, two toreators.
Act II—Bull, one torealor.
Act III—Bull.
—Exchange.
SEE I HE töMlYlU BABY!
WARPATH! MEETING THURS.
AT 12:30, IN 104 INDUSTRIES
All members of the Carnegie Tar­
tan Warpath Committee must attend 
the last meeting of this committee on 
Thursday at 12:30 In Room 104 In­
dustries. This meeting is one of the 
most important phases of the war 
and must not be missed. Roll call 
will be taken.
The Tartan Is on the Warpath.
Lutheran Students to 
Meet Friday Evening
The regular meeting of the Luth­
eran Student Club will be held at 
the Lutheran Student House, IDith- 
rldgo and Bayard street, Friday even­
ing, March 21, at 8:30 o’clock, This 
Is the annual' mooting, for the elec­
tion of offlcors and discussion of 
plans for next year. Committees on 
the Purpose of the Club, Pub)Idly 
and Social Activities will report, Tho 
Nominating Committee's report Is 
ready.
Matters coming up for discussion 
and action aro: "Tho Big Inkwoll,"
new budget, plans for Seniors, sum­
mer conference representation, depu-1 
tatlon work, club worksblp and ob­
jectives.
Sunday vespers still continuo week­
ly at the Student House at 0 p. m. 
The subject for Sunday evening. 
"Science and Religion," is to be fol­
lowed by general discussion. All 
students are .invited. 'Supper will be 
served to all present at 5:30 p. in.
Tho enthusiasm which had been 
somewhat diminished by the post­
ponement of tho Arts Ball, is now 
reaching its highest pitch, as only a 
few more days must elapse before 
the celebrated aud longed-for event 
takes place.
In spite of tho many difficulties 
which have been encountered in 
preparing for the ball, the ball will 
be by far the best of any ball in 
tho history of the school. The com­
mittees .feel that tho extra time 
which the postponement has enabled 
them to put upon tho preparation 
has counted much toward making 
tho ball a great success.
The rehearsals for "Joy of tho 
Lanterns," tho musical extrava­
ganza by Herbert Polesio and Verner 
I-Ialden, which Is to feature the ball 
will be continued throughout tho 
week. Tlio producers are fully satis­
fied with the choruses, and tlio act­
ors aro well up on tliolr lines. A 
novelty of tho show will bo a spec­
ialty dance by Narren Kimball and 
Ellsworth Perrin.
Tho show will proceed much as 
do all musical comedies. A. fifteen ‘ 
piece orchestra, composed of music 
students, will he In tho pit. to ac­
company tho show. Bob Arthur of 
tho Music Department, will swing 
itho baton, and Verner Haldon, tho 
composer of tho music, will bo at 
tho piano.
Bill O'Don and Janet Mlllis, who 
aro In charge of costumes, deserve 
GUpOclal credit for their part In mak­
ing tho costuming a success.
Miss Cohon, who has boon con­
nected with tho Drama, and P. & I. 
Departments for a number of years, 
has said that she believes tho con­
tinues to bo tho most stunning and 
attractive of any ball show.
'Charles Sollosslngor also dosorves 
(Continued on Pago Two )
Sophmore Class Holds 
Banquet at Schenley
Entertainment and Stunts Up 
to Expectation
Ono luindi'od and twenty-live Soph­
omores were,prosont at. the highly 
successful class banquet at tho 
Schenley Thursday evening. To Rob­
ert Boll and his committoo goes tho 
credit for putting the affair across 
In splto of every adversity.
Spooclios, songs and dances formed 
tho chief dlvortlsemonts that follow­
ed tho dessert. The speakers man­
aged to insert a few morsels of wis­
dom Into their offerings without mak­
ing them unpalatable. Tho dancer, 
however, received moro sustained ap­
plause for some Inexplicable reason.
Mr. K. K. Kirkpatrick as toast­
master, handled the job In his usual 
good style. Dean Tarboll mado a 
strong pleu, backed by a good argu­
ment, for open banquets. Directors 
Mott and Morris described some ob­
jects of education more Important 
than the material one.
Mjr. L. P. Beebe of the Economics 
Department, told some good stories 
in the energetic way that distinguish­
ed him. The presidents of both the 
Soph and Plebe classes, the execu­
tives of the latter present and guests, 
made speeches chiefly remarkable 
for their brevity They were called 
upon without warning.
But as before remarked, the chief 
pleasure of the function, exclusive 
of the excellent food, seemed to rest 
with tho singer and the dancer. They 
did their stuff in good form and tho 
costumes were charming, not to say 
enchanting. The orchestra did its 
noble part to prevent any cessation 
of tho general din. The crowd 
broke up In an overflow of good 
spirits. (No pun.)
GIRLS’ SENIOR BALL 
TO BE HELD APRIL 4
The committee In charge of tho 
Girls’ Senior Ball for this yoar Is work­
ing hard to carry out Its plans for the 
host event that has ovor boon given 
by the girls of Margaret Morrison and 
the College of Fine Arts. The music 
lifts boon secured for tho ball which 
will bo held In the Rittonhouse,'Fri­
day ovpnlng, April 4, and other details 
are working out very successfully.
The committee In charge Includes: 
Miss Elizabeth Lewis, chairman, Miss 
Margaret McClannahan, Miss Joseph­
ine Gibson, Miss Jane Howard, Miss 
Cora Pitcairn, Miss Faye Glass, Miss 
Jane Markell, and Miss Lillian Greena- 
walt.
The preliminary tickets have been 
printed and are now on sale. Wednes­
day. March 19, 1924, will be the last 
day these tickets can be bought. See 
the representative from your depart­
ment right away.

---------------------------------------------------

PAGE TWOTHE CARNEGIE TARTANTUESDAY, MARCH 18, 1924
Published every week by undergraduate» of the Carnegie Institute of 
Technology under the supervlnlon of the Student Council.
Entered In the PoHtoillce of Pittsburgh GE second-cluss mutter.
EDIT OE-1N-GHI BPH. F. SIMPSON......................................................................................Schenley 914.1
BUSINESS MANAGER J. C. MAJOR............................................................................................Hilftnd 4011-.I
KENNETH ARNOLD.........................................Schenley 9189—Managing Editor
FRED C. SMITH..............................................................Assistant Managing Editor
FRED T. PHELPS..........................................................Assistant Managing Editor
SARA MAE EVERE'J 
MARK S. DOWNES 
II. II. WILSON
ASSOCIATE EDITORS.Schenley 9220
NEWS EDITORS
W. WINNING.............................................................................. Schenley 9070
F. D. ROSSINI....................................................................................... Schenley 9070
A. S. ANDREWS .................................................................................. Schenley 9211
A. E. KROGH... 
E. C. FRAZIER.
.'.Schonlóy 0070—Alumni Editor 
..Schenley 9143—Athletic Editor
R. W. SLJQATH .. 
W. K. JEFFREY.. 
E. P. CO US 10, JR.. 
DON GARDNER .
.............. Photographer
..........Exchange Editor
.....................Art Editor
............ Speclul Writer
T. J. DEMPSEY.. 
W. M. GIBSON... 
B. BROUDY...........
...............................Circulation Manager
.Schenley 9211—Advertising Manager 
.................Assistant Business Manager
EDITORIAL ASSISTANTS 
Mutuilo Gttfibaldl Alnico Staro J. M. TYOU
Elizabeth .Inno Uordon N. C. Wcnur P. M. MUp
Wilma Stlnur V. ii. Smith Ga,y , »
Cnrol Foigllt L. H. UnrrlB C. A. LundqulH
Maìiarot McFall M. a. Joliiwòn R. L. Lepper
Koöeinary MoCumbrldgG K. Fulmor J. N. Conley
Norn WlllotH A. I<\ Carson _______llolllriHluiad
Holon Corrno
ATHLETIC CONTRIBUTORS 
a. 13. Jacoby J. Clirlntofl J. F. IlnrrlB15. C. Plummer
BUSINESS ASSISTANTS 
D. Mosltovitz, .T. W. Motro, P. Edle, R. I.. Sandroclt, A. Grodner, L. J3ar- 
brow, A. Porroton, RIY C. Osborn, 13. b. IIgovob.
Tbo Edltor-ln-ChloC In roBponalble for tlio policy o£ tliln imper; tho 
Managing JOditor tor tho multo un. _______________
Tlio Turtmi woicoineB nil cominunicatlonH of Btudent interest, it signed. 
Blgnnture will lio withhold it dosired. All nowB itoma must bo in tlio Btudent 
pout olilco botoro 4:30 Thursday. ___________________________
Tnrtnn Oilico—Room ÍÍ-A, Industries Building. Ofilco hours—Daily 12:30-
THE ACTIVITY POINT SYSTEM
Is there any possible workable system 1 lint can be adopted to 
supersede tlio present inadequate Activity Point System!
The present system, designed to regulate the number ol. activi­
ties in which a man may particípate, lias proven useless due to the 
difficulties encountered in its application. The idea was originated 
several years ago, lint not until last year was any definite action 
taken toward draiiting a working plan. A committee under the 
chairmanship oil Kenneth Arnold^ spent many weeks in gathering the 
material requisite to base such a plan upon, and at the end of M ay 
the committee’s recommendations ¦ were accepted as the Activity 
Point System.
Upon trying to put tho system into effect this year, it was found 
that nn inordinate amount of clerical work would lie required to pre­
pare the necessary records. A list of every student’s netivities had to 
ho compiled and a constant check was necessary to keep the liles m 
order. Paul Schuclcor , chairman of the committee, devoted much 
time in gathering information, but before long was convinced of I lie 
futility of attempting to check up tho record of every student in 
school.
The system is, moreover, not only difficult to maintain, but in 
many eases exercises a depressive oiloct uopn activities rather than 
inducing an interest in them. II. it mini in hull athletics ueeumnlutcs 
the maximum limits of twenty points, lie is not, according to tho 
rules, permitted to enter into any new activities throughout the rest 
of the year. In most eases the points attached to nn office arc pro­
portional to the honor rather tlnm to the work connected with the 
position.
The minim'um number of points which a man is required; to nc- 
ftiimnlato bel’ore graduation has boon fixed at the low total ol' four 
mainly through the inltuoneo ol' the faculty- and for all practical 
purposes may be disregarded. The only demand this makes upon a 
mini is Unit lie belong to one departmental orgiinizution, tho meetings 
of which lie need net; oven attend.
It lias frequently been demonstrated that n student who becomes 
affiliated with too ninny netivities, soon automatically discards some 
of Ills responsibilities and a natural system rather Hum nn nrlifieinl 
Not ol' rules determinen a student's capacity for oxtrn-eurrionla work.
Obviouslv, a system which neither eneoiiruges or deinunds that a nl.ii- ...
•»•-i ........................ r V1"1!-’ rlth iN *...student’s capacity, upon the number ol activities lie may engage in,, WHnl ............................................ t0
íh vuIuoIohs and tho energy entailed in its maintenance is wasted. , (ll0 cHIkojih of Athens, “in God’s
Can not ii 11101*0 prueticu.l aclieme be evolved? Surely with the j name I beg or you, think!*'1 Think
knowledge oü tlio defects o I! our prosent system soino distinct »id- that all vo have or value, of su-
vnnceincnt could bo made and student activities bo placed upon the ¡ nreme value, In othlcs, in roliglon,
firm I'oundution I hey re....re. ¦» to >«*. <",,lu,"y trom. ';"’n_____________________________±_____________ , ; littlo ‘broken, doloatod countries
Greoco and Judea. We in America, 
COACH CKFRKHKHRSP S worshipping size, and outward suc­
cess, and victory, wo aro worthless. 
We do not know what to do in tho 
world. We are a collossal cipher 
so lar, with no number added to us, 
We are as dust beneath the feet of
Arts Plays
THE TROJAN WOMEN
It Is with mixed emotions that 1 
attempt to comment on tho produc­
tion of Euripides' Trojan Women 
in the Arts Theater this week. Very 
many things In It deserve commen­
dation. Tho stage picture left noth­
ing to he desired. Scenery, cos­
tumes and lighting wore a nice 
blending of modern Impressionism 
and Greek convention. The play 
was carefully and Intelligently pro­
duced. And tho voices were really 
lovely. Elizabeth Sowerby’s Hecuba 
was like organ music. Miss Sower- 
by’s voice Is a beautiful instrument. 
In this part she overcame her ten­
dency to hardness, which sometimes 
mars her Interpretation, as when she 
gave the wistful Queen Genevieve 
In tho tone of a Gonorll or Ilegan. 
Hecuba’s stateliness, and her bitter­
ness Miss Sowersby gave In full 
measure, without sacrliiclng the 
tones of human pathos. It was 
very fine pioce of work. Mary Skur- 
kay also found in Helen a part suit-
Arts School Alumni 
In Interesting Work
Extensive Field Covered in 
Commercial World
WALLY TALKS AT FIRST 
ASSEMBLY IN NEW GYM
The interesting and unique na­
ture of tho commercial work being 
done by tho students and graduates 
of the Applied Arts has prompted 
an article based on that subject.
The student after receiving the 
principles of design and the techni­
que of their application in his four 
years at school, goes out to a com­
mercial Held, that Is practically lim­
itless as to the various phases of 
its form. The Held covers the en­
tire globe and enters practically 
every industry and commercial ac­
tivity in the country. One student
The first assembly held in the 
new gym was well attended, so that 
Cy Henninger was able to conduct 
a spirited pep rally.
Ono of the—purposes of this col­
umn is to give to those who are in­
terested some idea of what is being 
done in research and engineering lit­
erary work at Carnegie Tech. Prac-
Waliy Steffen surprised his audi-¡ tically all of the great advance-
ence by delivering an address on 
the subject of American Colleges, in 
which he stated that the colleges 
today reflect the politics, ideals and 
spirit of our country. He empha­
sized the Importance of athletics as 
a means of expressing the principles 
held by a college.
Coach Ben Lubic occupied a min­
ute and a half with an appreciation 
of the support given to the basket 
ball team.
Dr. Baker presented commissions
illustration for magazines and adver­
tisements, still another may have 
found his way to Paris and Is In the 
midst of the costume designing in­
dustry. The various phases of their 
ed to her special gifts. Her beauty | WOrk could hardly be covered in 
nml winning soltness, together with* volumes, so great is their extent, 
tlio careful and intelligent shading'» Th0 controlling feature
may lie round designing sottings for to the following men: 
motion pictures in California, while u. P. Knight, Major—Engineer
another may ho deeply engrossed in corps.
Harry Mervls gave the part of Men- 
elauH mado their scene an excellent 
dramatic study. Andromache (Ida 
Kraus) and Talthybius (Donald 
Marye), were tho most successful in 
attaining a simplicity and humanity 
in their emotional scenes. Dorothy 
Schell as Cassandra kept a nice bal­
ance between her character as 
priestess, her divine insanity, and 
her human love and sorrow as ono 
of the Troades. The othors one 
thinks of primarily as voices, often 
with lovely tones in them that one 
would like to single out for praise 
For Instance, the speech “and forth, 
lo, the women go, the crown of war, 
the crown ot' woo," made at least 
one listener wish Miss Perry baa 
more lines In the play.
Having cheerfully praised good 
work, may 1 now make Indulgence in 
a personal protest? As the play 
went 011, I should havo liked to cry 
out to actors and audience £ “Is It 
nothing to you? Is there no one 
here, not ono, who loves this play 
and understands its supreme beauty 
and its great, sad message?” The 
actors were doing careful work, but 
they manifestly did not lovo the 
words they spoke. This was to 
them merely a play, to be inter­
preted as dramatically as possible 
and gotten over with. And tho au­
dience could rustle and half laugh 
ut some trivial detail, as when the 
dead baby moved a little. Some 
lovor of great Greek religious c)rama 
should havo scourged them all from 
the theater with a whip of small 
cords.
Perhaps, after all, what wo all 
nood Is not scourging, but Leaching. 
But who Is there to toach 'us, the 
meaning of Euripides, if wo will 
not ilston to Sir Gilbert Murray? 
And yet, usoloss as words are In 
such matters, thus much might be 
said lo actors nndl audience:
Do you know why, In 1014, a group 
of soml-nmutours working for tho 
Women’s Police Party came Infinitely 
noaror than you to tho heart of 
Euripides? Thoy believed the play 
was moro than a play. They used 
tliolr humble talents to glvo this 
troubled modern world of ours Some 
touch of tho groat sacred wisdom of 
Greoco. You, boro In ¡your bountiful 
Arts Theater, with all your train I EN 
and careful work, you did not sec 
that In this piny llos all you need 
to know about art, and almost all 
One 
to you
ntrolling feature of this 
work is a growing love, and demand 
of the American people for beauty 
and originality in design. Everything 
we use or see has sometime passed 
under the hands of a designer, and 
must be continually improved or 
changed if it is to be kept in public 
demand. Thus we see the greatest 
industries turning to the design of 
their product as its most important 
feature. The realization that a thing 
must be well-appearing in order to 
sell Is increasing very rapidly, and 
as a result experience In design is 
greatly in demand.
Therefore, due to the extensive­
ness of this field it is practically im­
possible to specify any definite line 
of work in which the graduate artist 
usually settles, but it could be safe­
ly said that they can be found in 
nearly every line of commercial’ work 
existing at the present day.
Milo Matter, Captain — Engineer 
Corps.
H. E Klugh, First Lieutenant—En­
gineer Corps.
L. PI. Harris, Second Lieutenant— 
Engineer Corps.
L. A. Kline, captain—Motor Trans­
port Corps.
L. C. Hughes, First Lieutenant—
Motor Transport Corps.
D. C. L'J-Ieureux, Captain—Signal
Corps.
E. C. Tatum, First Lieutenant—
'Signal Corps.
J. L. Knight, First Lieutenant—
Signal Corps.
SEE THE WHIMSICAL WOMEN!
CAMPUS PERSONALITIES
PLEBES IN CHARGE OF
M. M. ASSEMBLY TODAY
The Margaret Morrison Assembly 
today is in charge of the Freshman 
class. A number of surprises are in 
store, diversions in the way of stunts, 
and unusual demonstrations in the na­
ture ofjngenious dramatic effects and 
artistic ability. Remarkable wisdom, 
and incomparable insight into the 
deeper elements of college life will 
mark the entertainment. The prin­
ciple participants are those Plebes 
who have most conspicuously proved 
themselves incorrigible, irresponsible, 
and irreformable. It will be an oppor­
tunity for them to rise from their 
spectacular depths of depravity, and 
to become, instead, shining luminar­
ies of the rostrum.
The number and variety of stunts 
are sure to present an appeal to every­
one from the Practical Social pork­
ers to the Intellectual English Minor 
students.
The committee is in charge of 
Emily Fulton. Come and see what the 
Plebes can do.
ments in engineering and science 
have been made through research 
and the publishing of the results of 
expérimental work. Any such work 
carried on at Carnegie Tech not 
only makes a reputation ' for the in­
dividuals performing the work but 
it also gives prominence to the in­
stitution in which these individuals 
¿serve as * instructors.
This article will be confined to the 
work which the Mechanical Engi­
neering Department have done in 
the past year in the line of re­
search, literary work and the install­
ation of new equipment.
During the summer of 1923 Profès-
high speed which cause large iner­
tia effects in thé moving parts.
Professor Trinks is developing a. 
steam meter which will measure ac­
curately steam having pulsating flow. 
The present meters give results when 
pulsating flow is encountered which 
are anywhere from ten to two hun­
dred p'er cent too high.
The faculty of the Department of 
Mechanical Engineering is doing con­
siderable literary work. Professor 
Trinks is working on the second 
volume* of his book on Industrial 
Furnaces. Professors Estep and 
Blaisdell are writing a book of pro­
blems for Thermodynamics and Pow­
er Plants, for which they are under 
contract by the John Wiley and 
Sons, Inc.
Professor Blaisdell has been work­
ing on the subject of Entropy charts 
for gaSses at very high pressures
sor Trinks ran an extended series and has completed several of the
of tests on the limits of bearing pre: 
sures and speeds in sliding bearings 
of the journal type. It was intend­
ed to find out what design, what mar 
terial and what lubricant had to be 
used in order to render possible the 
combination of pressures running up 
to three thousand pounds per square 
inch of projected area with rubbing 
speed running up to seven hundred 
feet per minute.
Mr. Saylor has just completed the 
making of parts and the assembly 
for a high speed indicator to be used 
on gasoline motors. The principal 
parts were furnished by the Amer­
ican Instrument Company, of Wash­
ington, D. C. At- present there is 
no indictor on the market which 
will give satisfactory performance 
for gasoline engine because of the
charts.
With the leaving of Prof. C. W. 
Sproull, head of the Machine Design 
Department, that department ha's 
ceased to exist as an independent 
department and has been attached 
to the Department of Mechanical En­
gineering.
The new equipment consists of a 
Spencer Turbo-blower which was in­
stalled in the Mechanical Laboratory 
and has been thoroughly equipped 
with measuring devices. It has been 
made the basis of a design problem 
for Senior students.
Plans have ,now been made by the 
Department for the installation of 
a Buick chassis which is to be used 
as a friction dynomometer and pow­
er tester for automobiles.
M. S. DOWNES.
TO UNFOLD MYSTERY
the glorious dead cities of Athens jn alumni work especially the alumni 
and Jerusalem where God talked 0j his own department. He was in- 
with His poets and prophets. And 
this is what Hecuba tells you, and
“Wally” Steffen’s visit to Carnegie Tech last week plainly 
Showed why lie is so desirable as a. football couch. As a man 
“ Willy” need not step down for any man. As a friend, no one could 
ask for a truer. It is good to have as football mentor one who lias 
the whole-hearted support of his football team ; of the student body; 
of the faculty, and of tlie administration. Likewise it is good to 
have at Carnegie a football coach who has and holds by sheer force of 
personality; creed of sportsmanship, and «ability the highest respect Cassandra, this is “the music of the 
of all connected with sports, be he writer, Official, player or among ! everlasting song of Earth and Heav- 
the general public. ! en>” B>r £he bi'oken 'val1 o£ Tr0>’-
But when a football coach shows other characteristics as Stcilen the Gods sPealr- 
did last week in his speech before the student body, it cannot help 
but be appreciated how fortunate Carnegie is. Furthermore it was 
brought forcibly before every student the great loss our college will 
undergo when Judge Steffen is eventually forced to sever all rela­
tions with Carnegie athletics, which is sure to come in the future, 
for assuredly his profession is demanding more and more of his time.
The Judge’s message before the students would never stamp him 
as a teacher of football, but rather as a delver into deeper things. His 
remarks upon education in Russia, today and before the red regime, 
and upon those in '¡America stamps him as a man who is keenly inter­
ested in tho teaching of young men and women. It stamps him as a 
keen student of educational failings and good-points, tending towards 
their betterment. All in all one might characterize his speech as a 
glorification ot; tho American university system, and a strong assur­
ance that from yoar to yoar it; will grow better arid bettor.
Which is why “Wn.lly” Steffen is so desirable as a football coach.
Me is a student ot! education and can therefore see with the view­
point, of faculty as well as student, and can so direct; his teachings as ; inn y)\ixy (o b'0 ‘¡^ ¿¡T"
to bring these two bodies closer together. j possible In conformity with modern
Wo thank you, Dr. Baker, for bringing one so popular as Coach | dramatic taato and tochnique, and
Steffen to speak to US. ; you In the audlonco rustle your pro-
Professor Jaines, Head ot’ tlie 
Ghemlc^aL Engineering Department, 
was the third instructor to be ap­
pointed^ to the faculty of Carnegie.
When Professor James came to 
Pittsburgh in the summer of 1905, 
school offices were being maintained 
in the German Bank Building down­
town. At that time tlio courses were 
just being outlined and arranged for 
tho first classes which ibegan that 
fall.
"There were 14-1 students in that 
first class which met in 104 Indus­
tries,” Professor James said, speak­
ing of those days. “I’ll tell you a 
littlo story. In 190G the Freshman 
class had a. ‘banquet and invited 
Professor Keller, who has recently 
dlod. Well, the 'Sophomores (there 
were only two classes), decided that 
thoy would waylay Professor Koller 
and give him a banquet of their 
own. On the night of the banquet,
Professor James explained, six or 
seven of tho huskies i ol’ the 
second-year class went, to Professor 
Keller’s homo and waited .for him 
to come out. After a while he ap­
peared and tho iSophomores followed 
him down the streot. At tho corner 
thayi caught up with him and ono of 
them took li.lm by tho arm and said:'
"Proossor Keller, wo’d like to havo 
you come with us.”
"What do you want?" Professor 
Ivollor said gruffly, at tho sumo time 
jerking lroo and walking on. lie so 
startled tho intruding Sophomoros I tho propor manner.
Unit thoy turned nrouml nml walked The Tartan Is on the warpath,
inviiy. Ono ot tlio Sophs was hoard Go to General Assembly March 25.
to remark: "1 guess it must be the------------------------
power-of mind ovor matter.” ¡GENERAL ASSEMBLY NEXT
"Tho Sophomores didn't disturb TUESDAY IN GYMNASIUM
the Freshmen that night,” said Pro- ---------
l’essor James, "but that was the bo- (Continued From Page One.) 
ginning of the class banquets which] dice, Hazel Brown and Peg Ecl:-
CAMPUS COMMENTS
(Continued From Page One.) 
judgments by our personal likes and 
dislikes, and a Campus Queen can­
not be judged dispassionately, as an 
artist judges beauty.
Perhaps it would make the matter 
more spontaneous; would eliminate 
much of the ill will around under 
the present choosing.
Again, perhaps it is better as it 
stands, with the Campus Week 
Queen simply picked out as the most 
popular by some, as the best look­
ing by others, a sort of general, in­
discriminate choice.
What I want is your honest 
thought on the subject, .for it is the 
student body at Carnegie that regu­
lates matters such as this.
Shall our Campus Week Queen be 
popular with personality, or beauti­
ful, with a beautyi all can recognize 
and appreciate. x
Be ready with your ideas.
On next Tuesday, March 25, the 
Eskimo Baby and the Moonlight 
Maid will appear on the Carnegie 
Tech Campus. Their first appear­
ance will be at the General Assem­
bly, which will be held in the new 
Gym on that day.
At the same time Wedding Bells, 
resulting from Love’s Waltz in Bar- 
qelona will ring out Ship Ahoy. 
Every Btudoiit will be given a chance 
to express his Love for the Englnee 
who has arranged this treat, and an 
opportunity to express his approval 
of Whimsical Women.
These will not show At any Old 
Place at All, and tliolr agreement to 
appear hero was obtained only after 
an expenditure of niuch time and ef- 
-fort. Tills work will not be regret­
ted, however, if the students will ap­
preciate this treat and support it in
until this year have been prominent 
features of the class contests.” 
Prol'essom James is quite interested
And more than this. {For our per­
sonal lives, there is the possibility 
of tho great dignity of these help­
less Trojan women. « They who meet 
suffering so, are greater than any­
thing that life brings them. This 
is the note of high vision which one 
hears at the end of all supremely 
great tragedy. And this might serve 
as our touchstone to keep us free 
j from the second rate la life and in 
art. There is no peace like the 
great reconciliation with the uni­
verse which folloAvs great tragedy. 
All our modern neurosis in life and 
art vanishes in the light of it.
And when tho Most High tells you 
this through, (he mouths of Ills in­
spired poots Euripldos and Gilbert 
Murray, you on tho stage .soe 110th-
hardt, will contribute the entertain­
ment in this second assembly in the 
new gym.
Presentation to President Baker.
. . Five allotted to a special presenta-strumentai in organizing tlio alumni Uon wh[c]1 wiI, be made p,.esl.
chemicals ot Plttebargl» v‘«n-; «lent Baker. This gift has been
made especiallyi for the occasion,ity who are now having “Dutch din­
ners” at the Commons frequently.
Professor James got his B. A. de­
gree at Buchtel College in Akron, 
Ohio, in 1S94. On being graduated
and its nature will not be disclosed 
until the presentation is made.
The Carnegie Troubadors will 
open the assembly with a few selec-
BEAUTY CONTEST IS
AGAIN UNDER WAY
(Continued From Page One.) 
bly for that purpose. Arrangements 
are not completp for this part of the 
contest, but the winners will be an 
nounced at the same time by The
Tartan.
Plans are under way to have the 
letters from the judges published 
weekly in The Tartan, and also to 
exhibit them in some part of the 
Central Building to insure to the 
students that the correspondence is 
genuine.
LANTERNS ARE READY
TO BE FIT IN BALL
’age One.) 
his part as
(Continued. From I 
especial mention for 
stage manager.
The committee asks that all those 
who have not paid their dues will 
have taken care of that essential 
beore the day of the ball.
A word must be said concerning 
the post ball dance which will' be 
held the llight following the ball. 
All those who are not eligible for 
the ball will want to see the decora­
tions upon which so much time and 
thought has been spent and will 
want one of the Chinese programs 
which will b^ used.
The time is getting shorter, so 
hurry and complete your costumes, 
Arts student, pay your dues, study 
hard the remaining days so that you 
may go to tlie ball with a clean con­
science and the Arts ball will be 
the biggest and most successful 
event of the school year.
HEAR THE MOONLIGHT MAID!
N
O one ever 
gets tired of 
Melachrmos 
their unfailing 
quality is a con­
stant satisfaction.
ORIGINAL
he taught chemistry there for three! ttcms if snappy music. This orches- 
years and then went to Columbia :tra a new- one, on campus, 
University for graduate work. From an(1 under the ^ndership of Don 
Columbia he went to the University Sonneman expects to make a name 
of Pennsylvania and got a Ph. D. in 
chemistry in 1899. From 1S39-1902,
Professor James was chief chemist
for itself. The second number on 
tlie program is the presentation of 
the special gift to President' Baker of the Lake Superior Power Com This wiU ^followed by some more 
pany. He then went back to teach-J music by tlie Carnegie Troubadors. 
ing because he liked it, this time A song ketch, entitled Si McNadd. 
teaching textile chemistry at Clem-j will be portrayed by Bud Stindler 
son College in South Carolina, where and Bob Alderdice. This stunt, 
ho stayed until he came to Carnegie j which has a Carnegie song for its 
in 1905. theme, will bring down the house
Sliavo on both sides of tho face, 
sir?
sarcastic Studo: No, only the out­
side.—McGill.
grains and criticize with complete 
emotional dotachmont. It is nothing 
to you, this old play.
Tho project which the Carnegie Tartan, took under its wing last. . STUDENT CALENDAR^,
ïall is rapidly nearing a climax. Its suecossful termination will do- ____________
mu,,.! a final burst ol' enthusiasm cl energy from nil II,oso who nr« WEDNESDAY, THURSDAY KKIDAY MARCII 19, 20, 21 worlnng tn the cause. Co-operation ami eo-ord,„at,o„ aro nbsolute- u,(,|m,ps.............................; ..........sp ^ Cllr¿C8¿ Union
]y necessary.
Each worker should learn the desires ot! his sub-committee chair­
man. These committee chairmen ought to work hand in hand with 
the general committee, else a satisfactory and successful end will 
not greet our efforts.
The happy completion of this work will mark an epoch in the 
campus history of Carnegie, and this project will be. an exception to 
all those worthy ones which have died in their infancy due to lack 
of suitable sponsors.
Let every member of the Carnegie Tartan staff and every one 
who is aiding the Tartan in this work be present at the Warpath 
Meeting on Thursday, at 12:30, in 104 Industries.
FRIDAY, MARCH 21
Arts Ball..............................................10:00 P. M., College of Fine Arts
SATURDAY, MARCH 22
Post Ball Dance..................................9 :G0 P. M., College of Fine Arts
TUESDAY, MARCH 25
General Assembly................................11:30 P. M., New Carnegie Gym
Industries Smoker...................... ................S:00 P. M., Carnegie Union
FRIDAY, MARCH 28
Soph Hop.......................................................9:00 P. M., Hotel Schenley
TUESDAY, APRIL 1 
All Fools' Day.............................................................Carnegie Campus
with applause.
The next number on the program 
is a musical skit, as yet un-named 
by Hazel Brown arid Peg Eckhardt 
of tlie Drama Department. These 
two girls will present a rollicking 
clever act, one that will contribute 
to tho spice of tho occasion.
Ohio Newman, the versatile soug 
artist, will render personalities. This 
includes several songs of the kind 
that makes ono smile one second 
and pulls the heart strings ¿lie next.
Tho assembly will close with a 
string of yells and with the singing 
of the Alma Mater.
Those in charge are planning to 
make this assembly the peppiest on 
record. No delays will be permitted 
and the entire program will be run 
off in one fleeting hour. The attend­
ance at the first General Assembly 
in the new gym was fourteen hun­
dred. This figure should be eclipsed 
next Tuesday when the special en 
tertainment assembly is held.
SEE THE ESKIMO BABY!
MEIACHRINO
"The One Cigarette Sold the World. Over”
‘ * ......... ....-V«
p| mBest Paid Hard Work in the World ”Iter»I
"S the way a John Hancock salesman described 
his work. He is a college graduate and in five 
years has put himself at the very top of his 
business. He never yet has called upon a pros­
pect widiout a previous appointment. The best life 
insurance salesmen today work on that plan, making 
it a business of dignity, such as any worthy and ambi­
tious college graduate can find satisfying to his mental 
needs, and highly remunerative as well.
The man above quoted is the John Hancock’s 
youngest general agent. This shows what college 
graduates of the right type can do in this business, 
how they can build up earning power and at the 
same time provide for an accumulated compctence 
for the years to come.
Graduation is a vital period in your life and you 
are liable to hold to the business you start in. It 
would be well before making a definite decision to 
inquire into life insurance as a career. Address, 
“Agency Department.”
rance Company^—*jife Insurance Company*
of Boston. Massachusetts 
Sixty-one years in business. Now insuring One Billion Seven Hundred 
Million Dollars in policies on 3,250,000 livesm

---------------------------------------------------

The semi-ilnalH and tho finals will 
be played on Wednesday and Satur­
day of this week, which will de­
termine» tho winner Cor tho Won tern 
Pennsylvania Iutorsoholustlc eliam- 
plonship.
There were three games playod 
last woek which, reduced the con­
testant!! to Homestead and Monos* 
sen. Tho Kamo between those two 
teams will bo playod tomorrow oven- 
ing.
On March 10, tho Beaver Falls five 
boat Edgewood 29 to 17, In a slow 
and rough game. Tho work of Bruce 
proved too much for the Edgowood 
team, lie scoring 10 of tho point» 
for Boavor Falls.
In tho game of March 12, Motion- 
son scored a cloar«cut victory over 
Connollsvllle,' 82 to 2*1. Tho Unit, 
half of this game was close and hard 
fought, but Monessen took a strong 
offensive in the second half and 
scored a dean victory,
In tho game last Saturday, Home­
stead beat Beavor Falls. 30 to 19, 
this game marking tho dose of tho 
semi-finals of tho tournamont at tho 
new Carnegie Tech Gym. Homo- 
stoad had little trouble In winning
with, it might possibly turn out that 
tills i.s not such a lean year after 
all. Assuredly« it is that there will 
bo a first class Freshman team, and 
it is freely prodlcted among the 
Freshmen tennis stars that they 
will have a better team than tho 
varsity. Time will toll.
Tennis Schedule 1924.
May 2—W. & .7., Washington, Pa.
May 3-West Virginia, Morgan- 
town, W. Ya.
May 7—Buclcnell, Pittsburgh.
May 9—Allegheny, Pittsburgh.
May 10—West Virginia, Pittsburgh.
May. 14—W. & J., Pittsburgh.
May) 10—Pitt, iCarneglo Tech
Courts.
May 17—Alumni, Carnegie Toch 
Courts.
May 19—Pitt. Pitt Courts.
May 22—Trip ponding.
May 28—Trip pending.
May 24—Thiel, Greenville, Pa.
May 30—Ponn State, Pittsburgh.
May 31—Colgate, Pittsburgh.
April 25-20 - Ponn Relay«,
May 3—Allegheny dual and Prop 
School moot.
May 10...Geneva dual and Inter*
scholastic moot.
May 10—Pitt dual.
May 2*1...Pitt Intercolloglatos.
(‘Continued From Pago. Ono.)
The Student Council hacr nothing to 
do with ruling of tho Discipline Com­
mittee and In fact are In favor of the 
two classes holding secret Imnquotfi.
If the Froshmon and .Sophomores of 
the collogo will submit some feasible 
plan for Ilio operation of the ban­
quets, keeping the Discipline Commit- 
toe ruling In mind, II; will bo greatly 
approda tod by the Froshman Ttoguhi- 
tlons Committee oC tho Student Coun­
cil. Sophomore« and Plebes, get to­
gether and formulato your suggestions 
and nddrosK. them In care of Sam 
DyUo, Student Connell, Piemie do this 
Immediately In order not to delay tho 
plans already under way.
SOPHS SOPHS MAKE GOOD 
ON BAKE SALE SATURDAYABILITY 
The ABILITY of an Insurance 
agent or broker Is proven after 
a loss and the result of the loss 
adjustment is the foundation of 
his future success. At this time 
personality and friendship are 
forgotten. Skill, knowledge and 
service count.
Put Your Insurance In Safe 
Hands.
JOS. P. FISHER AGENCY 
Established 1886 
PITTSBURGH 
Commonwealth Building 
Court 0554
(Continued From Page Ono.) 
bought all the materials and super­
vised the baking.
The kitchen in the Margaret Mor­
rison building was a merry scene 
Friday afternoon when almost all 
the Sophomore girls came up to 
bake cookies, cakes, rolls, etc. A 
tired but happy crowd of girls left 
the market Saturday feeling that 
thejy had accomplished something 
worth while.
Corner Morewood and.Ellsworth 
Avenues
Sunday Morning Services 
11:00 o'clock.
L. Walter Mason, D.D., Minister
A Sunday evening gathering 
of Young People at the 0:30 So­
cial Unit Tea, followed by an 
interesting program, should be 
of interest to students.
Ho klssod her on tho dioolc,
It seomod a simple frolic.
Bui; ho was In bod a. wook,
Thoy called 11. pa In tor’s collo.
...Northern ttovlow.
Ibis game, kooplng a «afe lead 
throughout.
Tho Homostead live* and Monefiwon 
crow onter luto tho soml-llnals of 
ilio \V. P. I. A. L., bolli tennis bo­
lli/: In top forni. The wlnnor of 
thlG game wlll ontor tho Amila lo ho 
playod March 22, wlth thè wlnnor 
of tho Groensburg tourullinoti!;.
She: Aro you familiar with the
score of this opera?
Hja: No! But never mind tho
score—just so it doesn’t go into extra 
innings.—Bear Cat.DAVIES and HUGHES
¿MEN’S WEARj
3615 FORBES STREET 422 SOUTH CRAIG STREET
Next To Strand Theater Craig At Forbes
OPEN EVENINGS
C. M. STAU FT
3001 FORBE8 STREET 
Artist»’ and Engineer»' Mato- 
rlnlo, Stationery nnd Genomi 
Supplies for Studontu.HEAR THE MOONLIGHT MAID!
When days go wrong, remembor 
they aro not self-starters.Uh forfeit sttliny Qwtihf jyincil in tlic mild, s
TpOR the student or prof., the 
J- superb VENUS outrivals 
all for perfect pencil work. 
17 black degrees—3 copying. 
American Lead 
Pencil Co.
220 Fifth Avo.
New York
Assurance]
Wherover thero Is a banking 
centor this bank Is known. 
Those travelers availing 
thomsolvco of Mellon letters 
of credit, or travelers' checks 
arc aonured of tho recognl. 
tion which follows Identifica­
tion with well and favorably 
known banking Interests.
Similesback, at
SEE THE ESKIMO BABY IDsress Ssjste to Renfcj
You Can’t Outgrow Your DRESS 
CLOTHES If You RENT Them.I INTRAMURAL BA
NATIONAL LEAGUE 
Results of Games Played.
..................‘10 I McGill ................
..................18 Delta Upsllon ..
.................30 McGill .................
..................20 Beta Tlieta Pi ..
..................18 ! Beta Sigma Rho
..................47 | McGill .................
League Standing.
Games. W.
Largest stock between New York and Chicago.
Beta Sigma Rho ..
Acacia ..............
Kappa Sigma Rho 
Alpha Tau Omega 
Alpha Tau Omega 
Beta Tlieta Pi ....
Whittington Dress Suâï Co
6002 JENKINS ARCADE, PITTSBURGH 
Smitlifield 0341 Hours—8:30-.
¿r Write for booklet on Venus I'oncilii nnd Vunuu Evefipointkd Mechanical I'oncllu
T earn.
Acacia ...................
Alpha Tau Omega. 
Kappa Sigma Rho 
Beta Sigma Rho .
Beta Theta Pi ___
McGill .....................
Delta Upsilon .......
Delta Chi Rho ....WRIGHTS
What a whale of a difference 
just a.few cents .make ! ”
A pleasant ondayreeaMe BweeJ and a 
l-a-s-t-fl-m-fl 
Itenefi iJ as 
weM.
Good 8 os? teeth, .breaiUn 
and digestion.
Makes the next cfijjar 
taste heater.
AMERICAN LEAGUE 
Results of Games Played.
..................31 Kappa Epsilon .
..................21 Kappa Sigma ..
..................27 Iota Sigma Delta
..................17 Iota Sigma Delta
..................33 Iota Sigma Delta
..................18 Kappa Sigma ....
..................48 Delta Phi Delta
League Standing.
Games. W.
Is Taking thè Country By Storm 
A complete net in brlf?ht color«, /r»
144 titlea, 110 counterB, 8 rncku, V,
2 dice, hook of ruleu and in- Tm
fitructlona; nny ono can lenrn » M 
thè trame in ten minutc-H. It'ii 
very faEcinatin«. All In nt- M
traciive box, Henfc prepaid on Ba
receipb of $1.00 (Canada 25c àSua
extrn).
Scobell .......................
Sigma Alpha Epsilon
Woodlawn .................
Kappa Sigma ..........
Scobell .......................
Kappa Epsilon ........
Woodlawn .................oversTeam.
Scobell .......................
Sigma Alpha Epsilon
Woodlawn .................
Kappa Epsilon .........
Kappa Sigma .......
Sigma Epsilon Phi ., 
Lota Sigma Delta 
Delta Phi Delta ........
Very Attractive Black Sateen /ft 
Mah-.TonK Table Cover, with U K 19k 
colored 'dragon deBlgnn, adJiiBt- UJ ff 
able to any Hize card table; 10 ' Iff
counter pockeln, Htrilclnjf color- If 
ed fit itched edjfeH, I3xtraor<iinary 
value, Hpecial ff M
price-----------------------------------
COMBINATION OFFER
Wo will uond prepaid ono complete Mah- 
Jnnu ¡¡et and table cover ay described 
above on receipt of $2,150.
Chlnn-Amerlcan Importing Co, 
ill WftMt UfUli Htrrht N«w York
FEDERAL LEAGUE 
Results of Gamen Played. ,........311 Delta Mu ......
....................27 Delta Mu ..........
...................21 j Delta Tau Delta
.................31 Henderson .....
...................22 Sigma Nu .........
...................10 I Theta XI ............
.................24 I Delta Mu .........
.................23 | Boss ...................
..................23 I Delta Mu .........
League Standing.
Games. W.
g WE—BALMAXDF
Theta XI ..........
PI Kappa Alpha
Sigma Nu ..........
Delta Tau Delta 
Pi Kappa Alpha
,YEO FFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFF
Welsh .................
PI Kappa Alpha 
Sigma Nu ..........Aufhammer & Evans
Hats and Men’s Furnishings
6100 PENN AVENUE 
At Sheridan Square East Liberty
11 the difference
between just an ordinary cigarette 
and — FATIMA, the most skillful 
blend in cigarette history.
Team.
Pi Kappa Alpha
Sigma Nu ........
Delta Tau Delta
Theta Xi ..........
Welsh ................
Henderson .......
Boss ..................
Delta Mu ........
TUESDAY. MARCH 18, 1924THE CARNEGIE TARTANPAGE THREE
4PPLAID ATHLETICS
On the Plaid Screen
' Sophomore Girls Lead in 
Inter Class Basket Ball
E. C. FRAZIER
JUDGE OR COACH—WHICH?
When Advisory Football Coach Wallv Steffen spoke at the first student 
assembly held at the new gymnasium last week he did not give the large 
gathering a dissertation on football as is usually his wont in situations of 
that kind at Carnegie. His highly-illuminating and thought-provoking speech 
was more the product of the judge or educator than that of the football 
coach. Judging from the manner in which the speech was received. Judge 
Steffen scored another of his triumphs. He put the subject of education be­
fore the Carnegie Tech undergraduates in a new light, and gained the pur­
pose he had set out to accomplish—to get the students thinking on that 
important topic.
All of which brings us to that oft debated question, is Judge Steffen 
more successful as a judge or as a coach, and is it possible for him to suc­
cessfully be both at the same time?
We will not attempt to answer the first part of the question, while the 
second part, we think, has been thrashed out before. After all. results are 
the things that count. Did the Tartans not have the best team in their his­
tory last Fall under the divided coaching plan necessitated by Wally’s ab­
sence for the greater part of last season?
True, our boys might have done a little better if Wally could have spent 
more time here; but the fact that the team was as successful as it was 
speaks volumes for Steffen—his knowledge of football, his ingenuity and his 
personality. i
We say Steffen was a big success in both fields.
The football players at Carnegie Tech have long known that which many 
of us learned for the first time last Tuesday—why Steffen is a great football 
coach. He is brainy, a leader in ideas, of strong personality and forcible ad­
dress.
There is no greater or more fair or more broad-minded football coach in 
the country than Wally Steffen. And he is ours until we can get some other 
REAL COACH here permanently.
WE WOULD BE PROUD AND HAPPY IF WE COULD GET ANOTHER 
MAN LIKE JUDGE-COACH STEFFEN.
IT WAS UNCANNY
The way those Nittany Lions caged field goals from the middle of the 
floor in the game last Wednesday night. The ball time and again went neatly 
through the basket without even touching the rim. Those men sure could 
shoot. And team work—Oh Boy! they had it and then some.
It was simply a! case of a very good team having a very good night. 
Penn State presented an unbeatable aggregation here ’for our inspection and 
we are not at all glum over the sound trimming we received. Why should 
we be—didn't we trim Pitt!
THE BASEBALL CAPTAIN
Spring is just around the corner. We know, for last week ballots were 
received by Mr. Overend from the baseball letter men of two years ago and 
a captain for the coming season was made known. He is none other than 
William (“Jack”) Cappe, who does stunts with his right arm in the pitcher's 
box. That Cappe will make a first-class leader is unquestioned, for he is 
well liked and knows the game thoroughly.
There may be some who do not like to see a pitcher as leader of the 
team inasmuch as a pitcher might not get into every game. However, Cappe 
is also some guns as an infielder and can hit, so it won’t be surprising to 
see him holding down an infield berth when not working in the box.
WE NEED BASEBALL CANDIDATES
Owing to the fact that last year the Tartans did not put a baseball team 
on the field, mainly because no suitable playing field could be secured, only 
two letter men are in school this year . They are Jimmy Robertson and Cap­
tain Cappe. That means that practically every position will have to be filled 
by new men. In tprn that means a wonderful chance for anyone who is 
• eligible and has any baseball ability whatever to get in on the ground floor 
and make the team. Practically no veterans to offer opposition.
ARRANGE YOUR STUDIES NOW AND BE READY TO COME OUT 
WHEN THE CALL IS ISSUED.
The girls’ class basket ball teams 
of Carnegie have been showing some 
neat basket ball playing this season. 
The games have been played in the 
Field House and liavo all proved to 
be very interesting.
The Freshmen-Sophomoro game 
was perhaps the only one that was 
closely contested. The Freshmen 
took the lead early in the game but 
were unable to. hold it in the third 
quarter. The Sophomores forged. 
ahead this time and held a large 
lead until the last few minutes of 
the game, when the Freshmen had 
another spurt of luck which made 
the score 17 to 16, favor of the 
Sophs, at the end of the game.
The outcome of the Junior-Senior 
game was rather surprising to all 
concerned, especially! the Juniors. 
The Juniors, who won the champion­
ship last year were unable to keep 
up with the miraculous shooting of 
the Senior forwards, when the final 
whistle blew the score was 19 to 7, 
favor the Seniors.
The other three games were rath­
er one sided as shown by the 
scores, but nevertheless proved to be 
interesting. The Sophomore-Senior 
game was rather evenly played, 
but the Seniors seemedl to have 
hard luck in shooting baskets.
The Freshman-Arts game was de­
cidedly onesided, in favor of tho 
Freshmen, and ended with the score, 
36 to S. The Junior-Arts game was 
at no’ time a close contest. The 
game was slow on account of the 
numerous tie balls, fouls and out 
balls.
The remaining games are expected 
to be closely contested, especially 
the Sophomore-Junior game which is 
to be played March 20.
Scores:
Freshman 36, Arts S.
Sophomore 17, Freshman 16.
Sophomore 15, Seniors 3.
Juniors 16, Arts 4.
Seniors 19, Juniors 7.
Stancfmgi of Teams.
G. W.
Sophomore ............2 2
Junior ....................2 1
Senior ....................2 1
Freshman .......2 1.
Arts ........................2 0
WANT MORE PLEBES TO
TRY FOR MANAGERSHIPS
Plebes have shown unusual lack of 
spirit in regard to reporting as candi­
dates' for managerships of spring 
sports. Baseball, track and tennis are 
already getting under way and require 
a number of assistants and would-be 
assistants for proper supervision of 
the athletes needs. Candidates for 
the track and baseball positions 
should report at the Field House 
daily.
LARGE SQUAD OUT FOR 
FIRST TENNIS PRACTICE
L.
0
1
1
1
2
Pet.
1000
.500
.500
.500
.000
SEE THE WHIMSICAL WOMEN!
Tennis at Carnegie got away to 
a good start last Monday afterernoon 
when Coach Fink met a large group 
of tenuis aspirants in the "C” Club 
room. Fink gave a very interesting 
taik about the rudiments of tennis, 
and indicated that the squad this 
year would be kept as large as pos­
sible throughout the season, in order 
to give all men a full opportunity 
to learn the game. It is Fink’s in­
tention to devote as much time as 
possible to the team, and point out 
all defects in each man’s style of 
play. lu this manner, he hopes to 
avoid for the future any possibility 
of another lean ¡year in tennis like 
the present one.
All men were aslced to fill out a 
card showing their vacant periods 
so the, coach can assign each man 
at least three practice periods a 
week in the Langley Lab. Gymna­
sium. So far thirty-nine men have 
signed up, which is a pretty good 
showing for such an early date in 
the season. • All of these men liavo 
been assigned their practice periods 
and . are working hard under the 
careful guiding eye of Coach Fink, 
who is reputed to be one of tho best 
tennis coaches Carnegie Toch has 
ever bad.
Among the men out at present 
are: DeVore, Garland, Kurtz, Roger,
Boecher, Sclieick, Bernard. Sand­
berg, Allen, Rudisill, Wright, Vogt, 
Funkhouser, McCarthy, Bowron, 
Davidson, Jones. Wolf, Coovor, Har­
ris, Garver, Hughes, Carr, Cottrlll, 
Williams, Loughry, Bauorle, Lough- 
Hn, Leibowitz, Meredith, Simpson. 
Tllbrook, Jones, McWilliams, David­
son, Schavok, Pottoigor, Morrison 
and Lohr.
With such a large squad to work
CAPPE CHOSEN TO 
LEAD BALL SQUAD
Veteran of 1922 Varsity is 
Popular Choice for 
Captaincy
The final step in the organization 
of tho 1924; Carnegie Tech baseball 
team was taken last week, when W. 
J. Cappe was elected to captain the 
squad. C;lppe was one of the very 
¦few letter men left from the 1922 
team, on which he played third base 
and pitcher, and his election will no 
doubt meet with the approval of 
those who aspire to win their varsity 
letter under his leadership this year.
Cappe, familiarly knock as Jack, 
was ejected on the vote of the mem­
bers of the 1922 team. The ballot- 
ing was carried on by mail, and the 
results announced by the office of 
the Graduate Manager last week.
Jaclc is a Pittsburgh boy and a 
member of Bota Theta Pi fraternity. 
He made his lotter two years in 
baseball and one year in hockey. He 
is at present pursuing a course in 
the College of Industries.
The men in charge of tho baseball 
squad are now A1 Irwin, coach; 
Jack Cappe, captain, and D. A. 
Sclioerko, manager. Three first as­
sistants have been appointed by the 
Athletic Council to carry out 
Sclioerke’s orders. Those men aro 
J. Ii. Joynt, F. C. Hoenniger and 
Dave Garber.
The battery men aro still at work, 
and the entire squad will be called 
out for inspection soon. Little can 
bo predicted about the material in 
school, although there are several 
men who playod with tho Freshman 
team of 1922.
Spirited Basketball in 
W. P. I. A. L. Series
ATTENTION!
Athletic Team Managors
The Athletic Council at their month­
ly meeting, March 11th, 1924, passed 
the, following recommendation. That 
Athletic Team Managers submit to the 
Graduate Manager the names of all 
men to be excused from “P. T.” work. 
These names are to bo submitted at 
the beginning of each sport and again 
prior to mld-Somoster and also at tho 
end of tho spring semester.
TRACK CANDIDATES IN 
TRAINING FOR RELAYS
Beaver Falls, Monessen and 
Homestead Win
With' tho final rounds or the W, 
P. I. A. L. championship games now 
at hand the fans V.KKK have a chance 
to witness some real basket ball;
Under the guidance of Coach Hal- 
forty, the track team is beginning 
to get down to serious training. The 
men are working .out daily, and are 
practicing in Schenley Park until 
the cinder track around tho football 
Hold is put into shape.
The first event In which Carnegie 
will likely participate is that of tho 
Allogheny Mountain Association of 
tho A. A. U., on April 19. However, 
the games for which the entire squad 
Is pointing, especially the relay men. 
are those of the Penn Relay Carni­
val, to be held in Philadelphia April 
25 and 26.
Howdy Dykeman has beou entered 
in the two-mile run on tho 25t.li, and 
the relays c.ro held, on the following 
day. Carnegie is again in tho 
Technical Schools class and accord­
ing to tho statement of the manage­
ment, will compete against Worces­
ter, Stevens, Rensselaer, Brooklyn 
and Armour Institute of Technology.
Allegheny dual and the meet of the 
prepatory schools Is on May 3. The 
next Saturday, May 10, Geneva will 
be met in a dual meet and the 
eighth annual intorscholastlc meet 
for high schools will bo hold.
Friday, May 16, is right in tiro 
midst of Campus Week and for this 
occasion, Pitt will bo the attraction 
in a dual meet; and on tho 24th, 
Carnegie will compote In tho Pitt In- 
tercollogiatos.
Tho concluding event of the track 
season 'will bo tho I. C. A. A. A. A. 
Intorcolloglatos, to be held in Bos­
ton under, tho . auspices of Harvard 
University on May 30-31. It is prob­
able that a tow moil will ho entered 
In tlioso games for Carnoglo Toch. 
Tlu> schedule In as follows, not In­
cluding tho A. A. II. and Boston 
moots. In which our participation In 
not yet asuurod:
SKIB0 BASKETEERS 
BEATEN BY STATE
Nittany Machine Outplays 
Tartans by Score 
of 14-41
Before a crowd, rivaling that o£ 
tho Pitt game, the Plaid tossers lost 
tho last game of tho season to Pena 
State, tho score being 1*1 to 41. Dur­
ing all four periods the Tartans were 
completely outclassed, the best fight 
being put up in tho second quarter. 
Rood and Robertson starred for Car­
negie, with Mefort making himself 
felt more than once.
Reed’s free tnrow was the first 
marker for tho Plaid and was cheer­
ed like a football touchdown of sev­
eral months ago. Matter’s two points, 
gainod several minutes later from 
the foul line, ended the Tartan’s 
scoring .for the first quarter. By dis­
playing some of the best toamwork 
seen in tho now gymnasium, State 
began its attack; securing twelve 
points before tho period ended.
The Plaid tightened down in the 
second quarter allowing State seven 
points to •C-arnogie’s three. Tho 
next; two periods were the most dis­
astrous for the homo team. Ree<?, 
and Fixter, both of State, wore bril­
liant on long shots and lost no op­
portunity to prove it. Tho visitor's 
impregnable five-man defense, halted 
the Plaid in their attempts to score 
.from close range. "Midge” Matter 
broke away several times, but was 
kept from scoring, by tho alertness 
of tho opposing team. A last minute 
rally netted tho Tartans six points, 
and served to revive tho waning in­
terest. State must bo credited with 
one of tlie cleanest lighting teams
that tho Plaid has playod this sea­
son.
Ponn State—41.
Carnegie Toch 14.
Gerhart ------------F.................. Matter
McVioker .............I*’............ Anderson
Fixter ....................C.................. Mofort
Loofflor ...............Q.......... Robertson
Rood ....................G................... Rood
Scoro by poriods—
Penn Stato .......... 12 7 10 12 -41
Carnegie Toch... 3 3 2 6 14
SUGGESTIONS WANTED!
SOPH-PLEBE BANQUETS

---------------------------------------------------

PAGE FOURTHE CARNEGIE TARTANTUESDAY, MARCH 18, 1924
&ALUMNI PAGE
The Department of Social Work
By Profccoor Mary C. Burnett 
What in Social Work anyway? KE a 
question often asked of both embryo 
and I'ull-fiedged social workers, and 
it is not an easy question to answor. 
Social work as a profession Is rather 
a now idea, and, as it is stiil In si 
state of “becoming," it defies rigid 
definition. One must fall back there­
fore, upon tho expedient of numer­
ating tho kinds of things that tho 
social worker does—under the gen­
eral ‘head of helping tho disadvant­
aged groups in society and working 
to improve social conditions.
Graduates of the Social Work De­
partment at Margurot Morrison aro 
now engaged in a number of differ­
ent kinds of social work. One is at 
the head of tho Near East Ilei let' 
work in Hamadan, Persia, another 
is In charge of tho ciub house con­
ducted for tho employes of Vassur 
College, two uro assistants to Ilio 
lioadworkors of settlements, four are 
helping Allegheny county to care 
for widow» with dependent children, 
through the Mothers’ Assistance 
Fund, ono has gone us far west as 
Salt Lake City to work In tho As­
sociated (Charities there, while sever- 
:nl are similuriy omployod by tho 
Associated Churillos of Pittsburgh, 
and tho Social Service Departments 
of some of our hospitals. Ono is 
witli the State Department of Wel­
fare, while anothor is doing visiting 
teaching work in Philudolphlu. It is 
obvious therefore that those who 
liavo completed the training offered 
at Carnegie have a wide dioico of 
»pporlunity open to them The 
social work Held KO developing rap- 
idly, and there are not enough 
trained workers to meet the demand.
in what does this training con­
sist? in tho first placo it involves 
a study of those subjects which help
us to understand human beings In 
their relationships to ouch other: 
Psychology, Sociology, Economics, 
in tho second place, the student gots 
practical experience in tho field— 
acting as tho loader in a children’s 
club, visiting families in need of 
help—along witli Instruction in tho 
principles and methods which under­
lie that work, while In tho third 
place there is added' a number of 
semi-technical courses, such as sta- 
'Llstlcs, crimiinology, I Immigration^ 
Child welfare, which deal with dif­
ferent uspects of Lho social work 
Held. Visiting lectures, connected 
witli social work ugonclos in Pitts­
burgh and elsewhere, mooL tho stu­
dents from' time to time and tell 
them, concretely of their own expe­
riences, and of Lho work of their 
organizations.
The utudles in tho Sophomore and 
.Junior year aro Lho same -for all siu- 
dents. In the Senior year there is 
a possibility of choice between two 
of tho main divisions of tho field, 
namely, case work, which Is a prepa­
ration for positions with family wel­
fare societies, child caring agencies 
and the social1 sorvico department Of 
hospitals, and group work, which 
leads to such positions as director 
of playgrounds, or summer camps, or 
recreation in institutions, or as club 
leader with different organizations, 
such as tho Y. W. C. A., or in set­
tlements and community centers.
Those who choose social work an 
their profession can look forward 
to a strenuous life, in which, while 
Ihoy will bo called upon to give, con­
tinuously and unreservedly of the 
best that is In them, they will find 
more than adequate compensation in 
the adventure, and Liu; real human 
satisfaction Lliat Lho job has to of­
fer.
Auf Afhfamerf
II, was a pleasure indoed lo learn 
of tho formation of the now organi­
zation to be known as the "Carnogie 
Chemical Engineers.” A very useful 
purp0H0 can bo served by such or­
ganizations wo boi love. The idea 
of the Engineers is not ho much to 
serve Carnof-lo perhaps as Lo lceop 
ti 1> Lheir school friendships, but di­
rectly or IndlrecLly Lho association 
of former uludcnls of Carnegie moot­
ing on Lho campus musi he and will 
lie of ftroul value Lo Lho school, and 
wo honestly bollavo limi thi» busi- 
moss of "wliaL you owe Lo Ilio school, 
•iitc. has 'been overworked, AL’Ler 
«11 few poopio like Lo ho continually 
reminded of Lheir duLios. Real men 
will remember Litem wllhoul that, 
and ilie rest will only drag along 
anyway. The 'Carnegie Chemical En­
gineer« will moot on Ilio campus 
onoo In a while for a good social 
and fi'Iondly Limo. Wo wonder 
'Whether Alumni of olhor depart- 
monili living around PILLslmrgh will 
not Hud Lheir exmaple well worth 
emulating. Think It over.
Lust year nt tho annuuai alumni
Bolloflolri 
Prosbytorlan Church
Bolloflold and Fifth Avonuon.
Itov. Robert MnoGowun, D. D., 
Pnntor.
II A.M. nnd 8 P.M. Sermons.
1(1 A.M. Men’s Bible Claim.
•I P.M. Westmlmiler Guild, 
n P.M.- Livingstone Class.
7 P.M.- Christian Endeavor. '
Dr. K. McMillan, Student Pas­
tor, touches Men’s Class, Guild 
and Livingstone.
Tech students always welcome.
luncheon of Campus Week there- was 
a largo number of grads who pro- 
sen ted themselves without giving 
previous notice of Lheir inlenlion of 
being present. The result was a 
good deal of confusion. Tho same 
thing will happen tills year, of 
course (It always does),.but wonder 
if it would not bo worlli while for 
you lo send in your reserva lion 
now. After all, why should ono risk 
disappointment or discomfort, when 
insuranco against 1L is so easily 
obtainable?
[DO you recall? ] CARNEGIE MAN
When The Tarlan ran a sories of NOW DIRECTOR
lessons on the use of a slide rule in i A/TTATTOr”wL tue Onthe oC mi *** OF PLAYHOUSE
sleighing parly with a chicken and ; ____________
waffle supper thrown in?
tjio Him, wimn nuariy every mi" Interesting Little Theater in 
in school signed a petition which n. . . ,
asked for a gymnasium and a physic- Cleveland IS Directed by
ai director back in 1007? Frederic McConnell, a
When the green, back of lho hut, 
was u football practice Held? j Carnegie Tech Graduate
PIONEER IN FIELD
Tho old campus lias boon snow­
bound now for a longer Lime than 
Lho memory of even Lho sovon-yoar 
man can recall. It is .not exactly a 
beautiful sight, but. wo are getting 
used lo IL by llils Lime.
Tho re is a llltlo house being orecl.- 
od at Lho corner of Forbes and 
Woodlawn, which, wo aro 'told, will 
probably conlaln a drug slore at 
some future dale. We predict busy 
Limes for Dr. Marks.
Tho num’s dormitories have a now 
adjunct in Lho form of an iullrmary 
mi Lho Hirst door of Boss llall. Quito 
a good many1 clmugos aro taking 
place In that vicinity. Some time 
ago we heard a remark: "I can no',
conceive of LhuL, as a gonllomon’s 
Dorm?"
Two men, who did not conceive 
of-It an such, liavo rooonLly decided 
lo dlHOonllnuo Lheir pursuit of high­
er education Indollnitoly.
HEAR THE MOONLIGHT MAIDI
Tho SliiQer Pen &. Girt Shop In tho 
Jenkins Arcade will give you reason 
nble prices on calling cards, dance 
programs, favors, school pins, rings, 
pillow tops, etc. They can repair your 
old fountain pen or sell you a bettor 
one.—Adv.
PHILADELPHIA CLAN
On iSaLurday ovenlng, March 1, 
Lho Philadelphia iCarnegie Clan held 
Lheir regular monthly meeting at 
Crozor Hall. Arrangements wore 
made for the meeting by’ lho com­
mittee composed of M'lss Macrum 
and Messrs. Giles and Exline. Miss 
"Chummy” Macrum, graduute of Lho 
M. M. 1023, is a new und valued ad- 
dllion lo our Cian, and is Dlreclor-In- 
charg'e of Croze.r Hall. She com- 
pleted arrangements for the serving 
of the very tasty dinner and turned 
over tho reception floor for dancing 
and numerous stunts including the 
initiation of the new members. A spe­
cial feature wan provided by Seot- 
Lish songs and dances by Lorma 
Malcomson who has frequently en- 
terlained «Harry Lad or and who cap­
tivated tho hearts of all present. 
Mr. and Mrs. Henry Shaub were 
down from Lancaster,| bringing with 
them their niece and Mr. Krelsle, a 
Tech man and associated with Mr. 
Shaub.
Tho business meeting followed the 
dinner and short talks wore made 
by President Charles, Henry Shaub, 
"Pick” Hines, "Peaches” Coldren 
and Mr. Lockwood. A new athletic 
committee was appointed consisting 
of Messrs. nines Lockwood and 
Dougherty, Lo look after and arrange 
for Lho entertainment of the Carne­
gie Relay team compeling on Frank­
lin Field, and any olhor actlvilies in 
this lino. Funds were collected at 
the mooting for Llio memorial Lo 
Frank Hnaren, former graduate man­
ager. '
Tho following were presonl: Mr.
and Mrs. Henry Shaub, Mr. and Mrs. 
Ralph Coldren, Mr. and Mrs. John 
Charles, Mr. and Mrs. L. E. Exline, 
j Mins Mary. Rhoads, Miss Dorolhy 
Slolnmacher, Miss "Chummy” Ma­
nila, Miss Eloanora Scliomborg, 
Miss 'Constance Fulton, Mr. Reginald 
Ward, Mr. Ray Dougherty, Mr. James 
Campbell, Mr. iH. 1.1. Kroislo, Mr. John 
P. Balloy, Mr, ¡Reginald Street, Mr. 
Russell Davis, Mr. L. E. Emorlck. 
Mr. K. W. Lockwood, Mr. Tiiomas 
Shea, Mr. Harry Newcomb, Mr. A 
S. Hines, Mr. W. O. Cllos, Mina 
Dunlap; Mr. M. W. Jonos and Mr 
Wm. Burke.
CLEVELAND WOMEN’S CLAN
The (’Involami Clan of Carnegie 
women Is planning to hold a brldji 
par|,y, Friday, March 21, for Lho 
honOHL of Lho Margaret Morrison 
Alumnno Scholarship Fund
Tho following women and many 
others will probably bo there: Win­
ifred Rice, Georgia Clark, Jean Gray, 
Catherine Alton, Dorothy llarlew, 
j Evelyn Plorson, Martha. Potior Fost­
er, Maude llalner Montgomery 
Eleanor Clark Speaker and Mildred 
Lawrence.
Any Carnegie women living in 
Cleveland or vicinity arò invited and 
urged to attend ,the "'bridge.”.
Open Evenings to 11:00 o'clock Phone Schenloy 4G45
'We cTVlen’s Style Shop
offBsftn.
Arrival of new line of Spring shirts, ties, hats and caps.
Shirts of imported English Broadcloth, $2.50.
college-striped Four-in-hand and pointed end bow ties at one dollar.
CONNORS & CONWAY
3709 FORBES STREET OAKLAND
Yes, it does cost more to make VELVET 
Tobacco and for this reason—
It's the host Kentucky Burley tobacco 
money can buy nnd then it’s aged in wood.
All harshness and bitterness are removed.
It's mild and mellow. You will readily 
notice the difference.
I.iooKTT & Myrcns Tobacco Co.
GRADUATE OF 1920 
DIES IN E. E. HOME
Commercial Graduate Dies 
Very Suddenly at 
His Home
David Blair Sliilliday a '20 graduate 
died at his home on S3S Chislett 
street, in East End, on Tuesday, 
March 31."
1-Ie was born and raised in Pitts­
burgh, attending Peabody High 
School. He entered Carnegie Tech in 
the fall of 1914, registering In Com­
mercial Engineering Course of Sci­
ence School.
While in attendance at Carnegie, 
ho volunteered in tho United States 
Aerial Service in 1017, going to train­
ing camp at Montgomery, Alabama, 
where he became, second lieutenant in 
tho Aviation Corps. Leaving the serv­
ice in January, 1919, ho returned to 
school and graduated with tho class 
of 1920, receiving a 13.S. degree in 
Commercial Engineering,
While in school, Mr. Sliilliday main­
tained a vory orodlt.ablo scholastic 
standing and was active in Inier-class 
athletics. Ih' was a member of the 
'l’Ilota 'M Fra to unity and belonged to 
tho Aoro Club of Pittsburgh.
11»» leaves a mother ami three sis­
ters, Ills father having died recently.
SENORS ANNEX SILVER
CUP AT SCIENCE STAG
(Continued From Pago Ono.')
At tho conclusion ol this act, movies 
of lho 1923 Carnegie gridiron season 
wore exhibited.
Tho announcement of tho winners 
of the popularity contest drew forth 
much mirth and applause from the 
Engineers. The names and Lilies of 
tho winners, each or whom .was 
awarded an appropriate prise fol­
le ws: Most Popular. Tommy Griggs;
Biggest Bluffer, Fati Lamphere; 
Handsomest Man. Buck James : One 
With the Best Line. Skinny’ Hum­
bert; Most Carefree, Al Minetti;
In the winter of 1914 a small 
group of Cleveland artists conceived 
the idea of establishing a Ihealer Lo 
experiment, primarily, in lho newer 
forms of stage craft and lighting and 
to present plays which would not 
reach the commercial stage. The 
use of a house was offered them and 
a short time later the Play House 
wus incorporated.
For several years the group made 
scarcely a ripple on the conventional 
minded thealer-goers of Cleveland, 
unlil two and a half years ago when 
Frederic ^MOConnell, a graduate of 
the School of Fine Arts, CarAegie 
Tech, was engaged Lo direct them. 
Mr. McConnell was asslsLanL Lo Sam 
Hume when the latler was direclor 
of lho Arts and Crafts Theater in 
Detroil, one of the first successful 
Litlle Theaters in America. The war 
interrupted his career but upon his; 
return from France he spent an­
other year at Carnegie Tech for fur- 
ther work in his profession. With 
such a background he brought to 
Cleveland the latesL ideas in pro­
duction as well as invaluable train­
ing under the man who was at that 
Lime the foremost Litlle Theater di­
rector in the country.
Mr. McConnell works on the prin­
ciple that the first healthy sign of 
growth is making such a theater pay 
for itself. The play house is today 
one of the best equipped Lillie Thea­
ters In the country where the 
emphasis is placed on production, 
and it lias become self-suslaining.
When he went to Cleveland lie 
found a delightful co-Operating group 
of people, a small nucleus of expe­
rienced amateurs who were used Lo 
playing together and a well designed 
stage. Altogether he found a com­
pany that could creditably handle 
almost any typo of play and make 
their own sets and costumes.
Tho public 2ES—E attends does so 
In a different frame of mind fitom 
Lho audience which allends a play 
in Lho commercial thoaler. There 
are .1,200 regular subscribers for sea­
son tickets, bosides many who miss 
few performances. They are inter 
estod in Lho host plays, allhough the 
Piny House is not nearly so “high­
brow” as it has Lho reputation' of be­
ing.
When asked If ho felt tho mis­
sion of tho Little Theater was to 
uplift tho stage, Mr. McConnell re­
plied: "1 never cliooso a play be­
cause It has a message. If it is art 
and a play thal stands little chance 
of commercial production in Cleve­
land l consider it, hut every play 
must stimulate the mind and tho 
emotions. I would rather put on 
some delightful fooling like "March 
Hares,” than a Scrodish spasm 
which no one understands. Most of 
tho best European plays wo glvo 
are serious in Lone, bul we try to 
alternate with good, modern comedy. 
Wo do not cater to tho tired busi­
ness man—or woman, bu,t we like Lo 
givo people a chance Lo laugh."
DO YOU KNOW? ]
Thai Lho Junior Class of 1907 
started the tradition _at Carnegie of 
stealing Plebe Presidents?
That the first Glee Club concert 
was held in 190G?
That the Plebes and Sophs for 
the first time attended their ban- 
quests properly and complelely at­
tired?
That President Baker gave a talk 
on "Pittsburgh as a Center of En­
gineering Education” by radio from 
KDKA last Tuesday evening.
That the first Industrial School 
class at Carnegie Tech was opened 
on October 16, 1907.
The Department of Printing
Chemical Engineering 
Graduates Organize
Elect Porter President of New 
Organization
One With the Biggest Drag With 
the Faculty, Paul Schucker; Facul­
ty's Worst Enemy,. George Brugge- 
meier; Biggest Fu&ser, Russ liorna; 
Cleverest Man, Art Dwyer; Busiest 
Man, Jerry Slye; Luckiest Man, Bill 
Fencil; Best All-around ' Carnegie 
Man, Chet Brumbaugh; Best All- 
around Carnegie Woman, Cy Hoen- 
niger; Peppiest Man, Midget Matter; 
Laziest Man, Enos Johnson; Best 
Dresser Doug Sehoerke; Best Dancer, 
Irish McHenry; Best Athlete, Jimmy 
Robertson; BesL Politician, Chuck 
Hollingsworth; Hardest Worker, 
Nick Carter; Most Ladylike, L. 
Herdman Harris, III.
The committee is greatly indebted 
to Mr.* L. H. Miller for furnishing 
the picture machine and to Buddy 
Overend for the loan of the movies 
of the 1923 Carnegie Gridiron sea­
son. Mr. Miller also helped solve 
the seating problem for the occasion. 
Judging from campus comment, the 
1924 Science stag will serve as a 
criterion for those annual Engineer­
ing Frolics.
TICKETS FOR SOPH HOP
NOW AVAILABLE
barn Will to, Rosamond Mcllvuino, 
Mary Hughos.
Arts.
Earl Whooler, Dan Morrison, Bill 
Kennedy, Dick Reid, Klino Fulmer, 
John Osier, Ed. Couse, Vic Motlo- 
nauor.
Industries.
Jim Murphy, Al Thomas, Cliff Zinn.
Mn o fna.cocnh u 
tBhhn.cBfenfT jj 
with the *!
HnotBtK cLof
and earn a good income while it 
learning; we show you how; ^ 
begin actual work at once all l| 
or spare time; experience un- *? 
necessary; no canvassing.
SEND FOR PARTICULARS § 
Newswriters Training Bureau j* 
819 Amherst St., Buffalo, N. Y. £
The graduates of the Departmenl 
of Chemical Engineering mel Friday 
evening, March 7, and formed a per­
manent organization to be known 
as the “Charnegie Chemical Engi­
neers."
Rudyard Porter of the American 
SheeL &. Tin Plale Company, was 
elecled president, and J. B. Zim­
merman, vice president and secre­
tary.
The meeting was preceeded by a 
dinner in the Commons, at which 
Mr. A. E. Marshall of Baltimore, 
Md., was present as the guest of 
Dr. J. II. James. Mr. Marshall de­
livered a lecture later in the even­
ing on the "Mechanical Methods of 
Handling. Chemical Plant Materials.’’
The primary object of Hie organi­
zation is to ‘promote good fellowship 
and friendship among Carnegie men, 
particularly in this departmenl. Meet­
ings aro to be held once every three 
months, and will be preceeded by a 
dinner on the campus. Plans are 
being made to have a theater party 
in the Little Theater after the next 
meeting.
W. I. Sivltz of the Class of 1908, 
the first class to graduate from Car­
negie, was present and promised lii3 
support. The faculty was represent­
ed by Dr. James, Dr. Alexander and 
Mr. Turnock. The following men 
wore present:. F. R. Staley, II. E. 
Dunn, A. J. Farr, M. D. Gladstoin, 
Howard Speer, R. L. Able, F. A. 
Nicholson, R. W. Ortmiller, E. L. 
Biddle, Honni Marc, L. G. Seebach, 
L. I. Silverman, Manuel Chernoff, C. 
L. 'Sayre, W. R. Catlow, W. M. Har­
rison, W. G. Rinehart, Wm. Briggs, 
F. H. Trembly, C. F. Mason, F. Z. 
Haugh, I. Abbott, W. L. Shively, W. 
I. Sivitz, Rudyard Porler and J. B. 
Zimmerman.
Dwight Beede.
Science.
Joe Radden, Paul Bowron, Carey 
Proctor, John O’Connor.
All Section Leaders.
UNDERGRADUATES 
PREPARE FESTIVAL
Plans Are Taking Shape For 
Yearly Celebration of 
Campus Week
By Professor John T. 'Hoyle.
In this age oC industrial achieve­
ment, the only man who can hope 
to reach the highest and best places 
within his calling must be technical­
ly trained. Particularly does this 
seem to be true of the printing in­
dustry. The eagerness wiLh which 
our graduates are sought, indicate 
that, there exists a real demand for 
the type of student that Carnegie 
Institute of Technology is preparing 
for this highly specialized industry, 
which ranks as fifth in importance 
in these United Stales.
The primary object of the Course 
in Prinling given by Hie Department 
of Printing and Publishing is to 
Lrain young men of little or no act­
ual workaway printing experience 
for future executive positions in Lhe 
printing business.
This phase of our instruclion has 
nalurally found favor among masler 
prinlers, who have seen in it an op1- 
portunity Lo give their sons a liberal 
arts education, a thorough acquaint’ 
ance with business subjects and a 
printing training unobtainable else­
where under similar conditions.
But many others beside employers' 
sons have availed themselves of the 
advantages afforded by this school, 
with the result that our graduates 
and studenls are to be found occu­
pying positions as superintendents, 
assistant managers, estimators, 
salesmen, designers and layout men, 
cost accountants, advertising writers, 
teaoliers of printing production and 
service men, or as executives in the 
particular mechanical field which 
has appealed to them.
The second object of our school 
is the giving of special courses of 
intensive study for men of journey­
man rank. These courses may fol­
low along lines of typography, 'cost- 
finding, machine composition, shop 
management, advertising and the 
like. iSeveral compositors who have 
entered the school with aptitude for’ 
design have achieved wide recogni- 
lion among the craft. :
The service that the Department 
of Printing and Publishing }s at- 
lempling Lo perform for Lhe prinlin'g 
induelry could be of liltle. avail 
without the splendid co-operatkm nf-
The Vagabond Club
OF THE 
WESLEY FOUNDATION 
OF PITTSBURGH 
An organization of Pitt and 
Tech students for social and re­
ligious fellowship.
Regular meeting, Including 
supper, every Sunday evening, 
5:30 to 7:30.
WESLEY HALL
3904 FORBES STREET
forded by the Department of Eco­
nomics, Psychology, Fine Arts, 
Chemistry and General Studies. 
Through the courses given in these 
departments of this great instilutiton, 
we are enabled to provide a curri­
culum so weighted -with mechanical 
and business subjects on Lhe one 
hand and the esthetic and economics 
on the other as lo constitule a well- 
nigh perfect balance.
We have not yet reached the sum­
mit of our ambitions, but we are 
measurably nearer it with each re­
curring year, and the favor with 
which the courses are looked upon 
by the printing craft in general is 
very encouraging. This encourage­
ment has beea expressed in many 
ways, but perhaps the most signifi­
cant is that the salaries paid quali­
fied men is considerably higher than 
those usually obtainable by college 
graduates. This discrepancy will no 
doubt be less apparent as the sup- 
uly of technically trained printers 
increases; but the point of satura­
tion still looks quite remote.
There is surely opportunity in the 
printing business for the technically 
trained man.
SEE THE ESKIMO BABYI
“Wlint was the matter • with Professor Henry this morning? I’ve never seen him so peeved. I-Ie seemed to he boiling over."
"noiling over la pood. He was. Didn’t you notice why? The old hoy had mis­laid his Eldorado pencil."
Oakland Savings & 
Trust Co.
Member Federal Reservo 
System.
Capital - - 
Surplus - - 
Deposits, Over - -
$300,000.00 
$300,000.00 
- $5,000,000.00
SAFE DEPOSIT BOXES 
FOR RENT
CAMPUS WEEK IS COMING! If 
that means nothing to you, then 
Carnegie Tech didn’L mean anything 
to you. It is the time when the 
Clans return on masse to Lheir Alma 
Maler, and when- there is a general 
jubilee on the Campus.
This year the plans are made with 
the idea in view of having Campus 
Week a bit earlier than it was in 
other years. May 15, 16 and 17 have 
been selected, and this will be the 
date-book entry for. every Alumnae. 
In order lliat the entry may be kept 
right, it would be advisable to state 
what will occur on these various 
days, and what the plans are.
The first day, Thursday, will be 
registration day for Alumni and 
Alumnae, and in the evening there 
will be a student performance of the 
play to be written by Harry Hamil­
ton.
Friday tilings will reach a climax 
in the Mardi Gras, which is the big 
event of the week, while Saturday 
will be the Alumni day, and there 
will be a special performance of the 
play that evening. In order to make 
sure of seats for the performance. 
Alumni are urged lo make their ap­
plications early, for there are oiuy, 
a limited number of seals in tile 
theater. The students will be kept 
from this performance by means of 
a danco, which will take up their 
time on the Campus, so the Alumni 
will have a real gel-logetlior, and it 
will be a profitable one.
This year Harry Hamilton has de­
cided, for the time being, lo wrlto 
a piny of College Life, and tills prom­
ises to be the play ho will produce 
during Campus Week. Students, who 
wish to see it will have to do so 
Thursday evening, for the Saturday 
evening perorman’ce is not for them.
it is not necessary to toll the 
Alumni lhatXthey are expecled to re­
turn for Campus Week, for they 
know that, but it seems to be neces­
sary that there be some me^ns de­
vised whereby they may be made 
to come. This will be disclosed later, 
for there is a way, and when you 
find out what it is, you will all rush 
to the station and ask for a ticket to 
Carnegie Tech.
SEE THE WHIMSICAL WOMEN!
PERMANENT WAVING
$15.00 and $25.00 
COLLE’S BEAUTY SHOP
SUITE 610, HERSCH BUILDING 
339 FIFTH AVENUE 
Grant 9493
The place you have been look­
ing for
THE OAKLAND RESTAURANT 
3711 FORBES STREET 
Our Motto: QUALITY-SERVICE
~lhe master diawingpencil'
17 letidt—all dealtrt
Compliments
of
‘Distinctive Style 
and beautiful Fabrics
W
hile essentially conservative, the 
clothes of the well dressed college 
man bear certain distinctive touches 
which are always easily recognized, and 
which the well dressed man always 
demands.
Dunskire Clothes —designed particularly 
for the college man—combine all these 
well known points—soft lapel, four but­
ton coat, full trousers, high cut vest, 
and beautiful fabrics. They achieve 
that “careless” perfection so typical of 
well dressed college men.
A Dtinshire suit is always recognizable.
us to :how you these distinctive clothes.
Sole Distributor in Pittsburnh and Vicinity. 
CHAMBER OF COMMERCE BUILDING 
Smithfield Street and Seventh Avenue
