<0S tartan_ xAnfnmUAH OO *1 “Tir“ &# ¦ _ _ _ .September 23, 1975 Volume 76 Number 3
this week
TRAPEZE...................................page 6
SDC Election Results.............page 11
Summer Film Review.............page 12
CMU Football Looses .... page 17
Report Disputes Cyert
by John Warner
Sharp disagreement over the future 
course of the university exists between 
President Cyert and key members of the 
administration. In May of this year, the 
/ 'Tuition Committee presented recomen- 
^ dations highly critical of the ability of pres­
ent policies to maintain the quality of edu­
cation at CMU.
Differences in view point between 
Cyert and Dr. Timothy McGuire, Chairman 
of the Tuition Committee, were obvious at 
the President’s press conference held 
Thursday, September 18.
“There is almost surely some level of 
scale beyond which the University cannot 
|-f accomplish its goal; and we are almost sure­
ly beyond that level,” states the report of 
the committee. It goes on to say “We be­
lieve that the prognosis for the budget is 
unfavorable given current trends; and we 
believe that the prognosis for continuing 
to obtain a high quality student body also 
is unfavorable.”
Dr. Cyert’s handling of the budget is the 
Imain source of disagreement. The report 
} charges that Cyert’s method of balancing 
the budget by drawing from the endow­
ment is based on“management decisions, 
which if continued, must be considered un­
sound. “As a result of inflation, it is 
pointed out that even if the university con­
tinues to draw from the endowment at the 
present rate of 6% yearly, the university 
will face budget deficits in 1977-78 and 
thereafter.
t Dr. Cyert felt that the draw on the en­
dowment was not unsound, replying that 
the 9% or 10 % return from investments 
which could be expected in the long run 
would make up for the 6% annual draw. 
However, McGuire, Associate Professor 
of Economics and Statistics in GSIA, dis­
puted that such a rate of real return was 
realistic considering the high rate of in- 
^ flation which can be anticipated in the 
f future.
Also sharply criticised was the policy 
of reducing both the faculty and staff at
annual rates projected at 2% and 5% 
respectively, through 1979-80. If the size 
of the student body remains constant, the 
report charges, the end result of such a 
policy will be the loss of thoses faculty 
members most valuable to the university. 
As at least a short term goal, Dr. Cyert has 
expressed the desire to increase the size of 
the student body as a means of increasing 
CMU’s income. However, he justifies his 
policy of faculty reduction as being neces­
sary in the long run with the expected 
decrease in the supply of eighteen year 
olds in the 1980’s.
Heavy emphasis w.as placed by the 
committee on the need to determine thp 
optimal size for CMU. The report points 
out that “in the almost two years follow­
ing the appointment of the Committee on 
Scale, that Committe has failed o come to 
grips with the most critical issue facing the 
university: the appropriate scale of oper­
ation given existing resources.” When asked 
at the press conference, Dr. Cyert left 
unclear when a decision on the optimal size
of the university would be made.
Statistics presented in the report suggest 
that serious deterioration in the quality of 
education offered by CMU is already 
occuring. The acceptance rate has steadily 
increased, to the point at present, where 
90% in H&SS, and 80% in CIT and MIS, of 
those who apply are accepted. Average 
SAT scores are dropping at rates even fast­
er than those observed nationally. Even 
after adjusting the scores for the nation­
wide trends, average scores for E&S fresh­
men have dropped by about 25 points 
from 1968 to 1974. In H&SS, the decrease 
over a similiar period of time has been 50 
points. Without correction for the national 
trend, the decrease for E&S has been al­
most 50 points and H&SS about 100 
points.
Examination of the hit ratios (the 
number of students admitted by a compet­
ing university and attending CMU, divided 
by the number admitted by the competiter 
and attending the competitor or CMU)
continued on page 4
Bill Jacobs, Présidant of SDC
Jacobs Announces SDC Plans
by Claire Lee
Student Dorm Council (SDC) held its 
initial meeting on September 14. The meet­
ing was chaired by its president Bill Jacobs 
and was attended by a large majority of the 
24 newly elected representatives.
First, the council heard reports from 
various administrators; among them were 
Sue Christian (Coordinator of Campus Pro­
gramming) and Dean Williams (Housing). 
Ms. Christian introduced 2 of her programs 
which will be initiated soon. After tremen­
dous success last year, the human sexuality 
lecture series is going for another run dur­
ing the next 10 weeks. It will feature guest 
lecturers mainly from the Pittsburgh area
Plato Program at CMU
by Laurie Trask
The four PLATO terminals in Science 
Hall are amon° the over eight hundred 
PLATO terminals scattered acrpss the 
country. Each is tied (via phone lines) 
to a Control Data Corporation CYBER 73 
at the University of Illinois in Urbana. 
PLATO offers a variety of Programs, on 
everything from Astronomy to Veterinary 
Medicine, including such diverse topics as 
Economics, Music, and Thai, as well as 
several games. For visual display, the 
PLATO system utilizes a glass plasma 
panel, rather than the conventional cath­
ode ray tube. As a result, many different 
types of visual effects can be created on 
the screen, such as clear, complex, moving 
diagrams; intricate game boards; and graph­
ic art.
PLATO has been in a constant state 
of developement and refinement, since the 
first PLATO I was opened at the Univer­
sity of Illinois in the spring of 1960. 
Since then, it has been used by thousands 
of students, in America, Canada, Sweden, 
and the Soviet Union.
PLATO came to CMU, mainly through 
the efforts of Physics Professor Dr. Mike
Levine. Currently, PLATO is a trial pro­
gram here, being funded by a grant to the 
university for experimental education. 
CMU owns the four PLATO terminals, 
but pays a rental fee each month for use 
of phone lines, and time-sharing.
One important use of PLATO at CMU 
has been as an aid to those students taking 
self-paced courses. PLATO offers extensive 
lessons on Physics, Calculus, French, and 
continued on page 11
o
• i o .
'Jr '
Sample of PLATO Graphics
and also an 8 unit course headed by Dr. 
Pamela Freeman of the Couseling Center.
Her second program has not been so 
widely advertised as that on sex, but is also 
of possible widespread interest. It’s a 3-part 
program entitled “organizational Systems 
for Student Activities” to be held Septem­
ber 27th, October 4th and October 11th. 
Topics to be discussed will include almost 
all areas dealing with student government, 
clubs and committees: organization, man­
agement, financial possibilities, and re­
sources which the university may provide 
to your organization. Sue Christian asked 
the reps to inform all students of these two 
events and to ask them to refer any ques­
tions to her at Skibo.
Dean Williams then stressed that “we 
are operating under abnormal conditions.” 
He cautioned dorm residents from leav-/ 
ing their doors unlocked or from carelessly 
losing their keys since there has already 
been one robbery in Morewood. He also 
stressed that he will begin charging people 
immediately for the damage caused by van­
dalism - broken windows and lightbulbs, 
pizzas on walls, etc. — Which has already 
hit the dorms. He is currently looking into 
the workings of a fire-and-safety com­
mittee which is preparing a dorm fire drill 
for the near future.
After the administrative comments, 
Jacobs advised the new members of their 
responsibilities and announced that the 
elections for the HiH area V.P., the trea­
surer, and the Reps-at-large will be held in 
about two weeks. Also, because of the 
great underestimation of the number of in­
coming freshmen, a great number of them 
have been settled in frats, co-ops, Spirit 
and Tech house, and the Dougherty, Rose- 
lawn and Woodlawn areas. Three reps will 
be elected from these Freshmen to give 
them their voice in SDC.
Also at this meeting nine committees 
composed of the reps and some non-SDC 
studenis were formed; these were the film, 
social, renovations, intramural, publicity, 
fire-and-safety, Spring Carnival booth, 
buggy, and food service committees.
Jacobs stated that these committees will 
basically be what SDC will work on, and 
that he was very pleasantly surprised at the 
unexpected enthusiasm from members to 
be on the committees.
Finally the council established their 
meeting time at 6:30 p.m. every Sunday in 
Skibo, room 100.
In an interview, Bill Jacobs discussed 
some of SDC’s objectives during the 
coming year. It will check into the univer­
sity’s current policy of charging all resi­
dents equally for vandalism occurring in 
their dorm building. SDC will investigate 
as to whether this is fair or if there is a 
better system.
Food service is a constant topic on 
continued on page 11
Job Problems
by Alyson L. Abramowitz
Incomplete statistics suggest that CMU’s 
class of 1975 has not had great success in 
obtaining employment.
According to information from the 
Career Services and Placements Office, 63% 
of CIT graduates and 21% from MIS are 
now employed. Additionally, 19% from 
CIT and 21% from MIS are in graduate 
school. This leaves an average of 37% who 
either are unemployed or did not respond 
to the Placements Office’s survey four 
months after graduation.
In AMS, H&SS and CFA the employ­
ment rate is even lower, varying in range 
from 38% in CFA to 44% in H&SS and 
50% in AMS.
However, past statistics from both the 
Placements and Alumni Offices indicate 
that practically all of the graduates will 
have jobs within a few years. According to 
Irene Durkin, Record Supervisor for the 
Alumni Office only about 1% of all CMU 
Alumni are now unemployed. Of those 
employed, typically one quarter will go in­
to engineering of some type and another 
six percent will go into one of the sciences.

---------------------------------------------------

Page 2—THE TARTAN-September 23, 1975
editor’s note
Tenure, NOW!
Come every January or so, it has become very fashion­
able throughout the Carnegie -Mellon campus to begin the 
temporary but persistant outcry on the injustice of the uni­
versity's tenure policy. This is usually precipitated by the, 
realization that a particular professor’s association with this 
institution is quickly drawing to an end. On the other side of 
the fence, professors prepare for the tenure purge by quickly 
whipping off those last few pages of their current potential 
best seller or pumping up the voltage on their electron 
microscopes.
In all this fury come the university committees, frus­
tration, and then the summer vacation. Thus the cycle goes 
on except when some deviate is impatient for the crisis to 
ripen and breaks open the controversy early in which case 
everyone looks past the minor disturbance and continues 
to concentrate on the more seemingly seasonal topics such 
as parking enforcement, enrollment and dormitory over­
crowding.
But the time is now seasonal; now more than ever! In 
January all that anyone can do is protest irreversible de­
cisions but now everyone concerned can be part of that 
decision. Tenure considerations should be made public 
so that students and faculty alike can become involved 
by airing their unsolicited opinions.
Although it is annually requested of the administration 
and likewise annually denied, the time has come for the CMU 
community to know who is up for tenure before the deci­
sions are made. But if, as has been the case in the past, 
the administration refuses to release the names of thos facul­
ty members being considered for promotion claiming that 
public knowledge of these names would damage those people 
who are refused advancement, then it is up to each individual 
who is up for tenure to send his name, present position and 
position for which he is up for considration to the TARTAN 
office, room 52, Skibo; immediately. Instructors who are 
confident enough of their ability should not fear this open 
involvement of their associates in their promotion hearings 
but should rather encourage it by sending in their names.
Although not agreeing with the Tenure system in gen­
eral, / feel that the way to improve it is by getting involved; 
the faculty by submitting their names to the TARTAN and 
the students by making their opinions of each of the faculty 
members up for consideration known to their department 
heads, deans, provosts and even the president. Together we 
can all end the traditional surprises that emerge each spring.
Gary Singer, Editor
Landlord Cyert evicts upperclass dormitory residents
letters
Editor:
WRCT is a public nuisance. 
Supposedly broadcasting at a 
frequency of 88.3 MHz, I can 
pick up its signal at six other fre­
quencies distriubted along the 
full range of the FM specturm. 
These stray signals interfere with 
the reception of stations which I 
would much rather listen to then 
WRCT.
Student Government each year 
wastes $8,000, or 10% of its 
budget for this radio station 
which no one listens to. Staff 
members of WRCT claim they 
have a large audience; pointing 
out that last year when they had 
a record giveaway, a large num­
ber of Pitt students called in . 
Why should $2.50, or 10% of 
the money 1 pay for student ac­
tivities each year, be spent on a 
radio station for Pitt students to 
listen to. If they want a radio 
station, let them pay for it them­
selves; or won’t the state legis­
lature give them the money for 
one.
Programming on WRCT is 
worthless. At least half a dozen
commercial stations in the area 
present the exact same type of 
format and do a much better 
job of it. WRCT could provide 
a real service by providing pro­
gramming alternatives to the 
standard top 40’s trash format. 
Instead, it intereferes with recep­
tion of those stations which pro­
vide such alternatives.
Michael Tsao
Editor:
Five years ago CCCP was 
established to serve as lobby for 
the commuters of Carnegie -Mel­
lon. They were to facilitate the 
life of the commuter, by 
working for their interest, 
through both the university and 
local government. Towards this 
end over the years, they have 
produced a Renters Handbook, 
offering useful information on 
the whats, wheres and hows of 
renting in the Pittsburgh area. 
They have maintained a car pool 
listing with Pitt, worked to get
bus shelters on Forbes and 
finally last year got the U-ticket 
by which a $.50 ride now costs 
$.30.
They have run buggy and held 
dances through the years.
However, because of 
graduation, and not the best 
leadership from last years 
president, the governing board 
has shrunk to only one person. 
Therefore, if CCCP is to 
continue, a new interest must be 
forthcoming from the commu­
ters. I have plans to continue 
what has been done in the past, 
and several new ideas which I 
would like to see implemented, 
however, I can not do this alone. 
Unless a significant number of 
people respond by offering to 
work on the CCCP, I will have 
no other recourse than to dis­
band the organization
I may be reached either 
through leaving a not iq the 
CCCP mailbox, behind the In­
formation deak in Skibo or at 
741-6658 after 5:00 pm.
Paul Smith 
Acting President, CCCP
Volume 76tartan
September 23, 1975Number 3
Editor in Chief 
Gary Singer
Business Manger Tom Kirkland 
News Editor Charles Mitch 
Entertainment E:ditor:Mark Chimsky 
Sports Editor: Elly Zimmerman' 
Photography Editor: Elliot Popowitz
Staff Photographers: Jonathan Eiten, Tim Fabian, Rick Frantz, Courtney Larson, Gregg Lebovitz, Kathi Leich­
ter, Dave Meeker, John Rose, Mark Segal, Fred Shamlian, John Shettel, Brian Smith, Jim Vlasic, Paul Williams
Copyrighted 1975 by the Carnegie -Mellon University TARTAN. The Editorial Board reserves the right to edit or 
withold from publication any copy it deems unfit for publication. Funded by Student Government of Carnegie- 
Mellon University, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania 15713. Editorial Offices: Skibo 50; (412) 621-2600 ext. 656. 
Business Offices: Skibo 52; (412) 682 4557.
All rights reserved

---------------------------------------------------

announcements
THE TARTAN—September 23, 1975—Page 3
As a part of the Orientation Program an
Academic Convocation has been scheduled 
for all Freshmen in the Colleges of Fine 
Arts, and Flumanities and Social Sciences 
„-for 11:30 a.m. on Tuesday, September 30.
|t will last one hour. The Colleges have 
^been asked to make sure that Freshmen are 
excused from classes scheduled at that 
hour :. A parallel Convocation is scheduled 
for Freshmen in Carnegie Institute of Tech­
nology, Mellon Institute of Science, and 
Administration and Management Science 
on Tuesday, October 7, 1975.
Turn off your DAZE! Turn on your nights:
^ 88.3 WRCT FM. 6 p.m. til Midnight.
Oct. 2: Housing and Other Campus Ser­
vices? A discussion of present and future 
trends by Vice President for Business Af­
fairs Richard Van Horn; Director of Cam­
pus Services, Steve Zalewski; and Dean of 
Resident Life, Charles Williams. Extensive 
question and answer period will be in- 
eluded. 12:30, Thursday, October 2nd in 
the Wherrett Room, Skibo. Bring your 
lunch and a friend. Sponsored by Campus 
Program Planning in cooperation with the 
Department of Student Activities.
Semple Street Fair - Sunday, Sept. 21,
11:30 to 7:00. (Semple St. - between 
j) Bates and Ward). Live Music, Dancing, 
4 Theatre, Food, Arts & Crafts, Games, 
Literature. Oaklanders Marching Corps. 
WYEP live broadcast!!!! -Community 
Wide Participation Invited—because "To­
getherness is where it's at”. For infor­
mation contact: South Oakland Citizen's 
Council, 3603 Bates Street, 683-4531.
£*> PRE-LAW and PRE-MED students, send
for booklets of all medical or all law 
schools containing average, minimum and 
recommended GPA, LSAT and MCAT 
scores for 1976-77 admittance. Send $2.00 
to Pre-professional Advisory, Box 13872, 
Gainesville, Florida 32604.
^ Administration & Management Science stu-
dents will meet in the GSIA Auditorium - 
4:30 Tues, afternoon in Sept. as follows: 
Tues. Sept. 23 Junior Class
Tues. Sept. 30 Senior Class
The C.M.U. Computer Club will have its
first meeting on Monday, September 29 in 
2210 DH at 7:00 PM. The program for the 
evening is "Everything You Always Wanted 
to Know About COMPUTERS, But Didn't 
Know Where to Ask." Every one is wel­
come, and special invitations go to 
non-CIT/MIS students. Please feel free to 
come to the club room at 6207 ScH to 
meet us.
Radio, Theory and Code Classes sponsored
by W3VC, Carnegie Tech Radio Club. 
Get your amateur Radio License. Talk to 
people all over the world. For information: 
Andy Funk, Delta Tau Delta, Phone no. : 
687-3024.
Congregation Dor Hadash (Reconstruction­
ist, located at the corner of Forbes and 
Denniston) will celebrate Simhat Torah 
with services on Sat., Sept. 27 at 7:00 p.m. 
in the Wolk Chapel of the Flebrew Insti­
tute.
Amateur Radio - The Space Age Hobby.
Join the Carnegie Tech Radio Club, oper­
ate station W3VC and speak to other 
''hams'' around the world. Next meeting is 
Oct. 7th at 11:30 a.m. in room 401, Ham- 
mershlag Hall. For information, please call 
Andy Funk, 687-3024, or drop by the club 
station on 401 HH.
The Hewlett Ga.lery, CMU presents Land­
scapes and Pyramids by Ron Bennett, 
sculptor on Sept. 22 - Oct. 13, 1975.
classifieds
Girl wanted two days a week to do light
cleaning for house in Squirrel Hill 
421-2219 or 421-3789.
Earn up to $80.00 per month for 4 hours
of your time per week. Donate plasma at 
Sera-Tec Biological, 3407 Forbes Ave. 
(next to Arby's). Open 8:45 to 5:30 Mon­
day through Friday. 682-3190.
l.eaders needed for Zionist Youth Group.
If have Jewish-Zionist education, and 
interested, call 521-4877.
The Oakland Review, Carnegie-Mellon's
magazine of the arts, invites submissions of 
poetry fiction, criticism, plays, essays, 
translations, and black and white artwork 
for the Spring, I976 issue. Submissions 
should be placed in our mailboxes in the 
English Department Office or at the Skibo 
Information Desk. Anyone interested in 
ioininq the staff is invited and should
leave a note in the mailboxes.
Campus Program Planning will agair be
developing a variety of lectures, seminars, 
and issue forums directed at the total 
campus community. Any students inter­
ested in joining the program development 
committee contact the Department of 
Student Activities, 103 Skibo.
September^ 
clas isfaaeldsSWIMN G 
PleR iMEVelaS6
la0elM iMEVelaS6 Di
iMEVel AsSavaS6 
21*DVMvMVSNvM MMSlaMaVM4?
29G4MaSNesMaPSMMa~('WnSlaaVMd 
^member 5 
lVMgVeVsv & (laaRllaaNSla
12HW0WsMEVelaS6 
19iME&ShM Lew
Seoraoad tv me Dapwtnanl a) Smdart
How's your bicycle pedal power? The
Heart Fund will stage the All-American 
j Bicycle Hill Climb, Sunday, September 28,
^ on Cooper Rd., Monroeville, from 11 a.m.
to 4 p.m. Cooper Road is next to the 
Boyce Community College. If you're six 
or sixty, you're invited to take part in the 
Hill Climb which is being held for fun, tro­
phies and charity. The entry fee is just $1.
The Pyramid Zen Society will sponser a
lecture by August Turak on "The Albigen 
System of Zen." The lecture wil begin at 
^ 8:00 p.m. on Sept. 25, 1975 and will be
held in the first floor dining rooms of the 
University of Pittsburgh's Schenley Hall. 
Admission is free, all inquirers are wel­
come.
The Danforth Committee will sponsor a
showing of Mike Nichols' film "Carnal 
Knowledge" and an informal discussion of 
it with Prof. Knapp, Ron Cole and students 
Denise Fowler and Peter Fletcher. Time 
7:30, Sept. 23, 1975 in Breed Hall. Admis­
sion: Free.
There will be a Coffehouse—Jazz music­
ians. Friday, Sept. 26, 9:00 PM. Wherret 
Room. Refreshments free.
Sep
V
Is stealing a nee call worth a criminal record?
The use of phoney credit cards, electronic devices or any other means to avoid 
paying for phone calls is against the law. It’s stealing—pure and simple.
In this state, conviction for making fraudulent phone calls may result in:
¦ A fine off up to $15,000
¦ Up to seven years in jail
¦ Restitution for the total cost off the fraud
¦ Court costs
¦ A permanent criminal record
One more thing: modern electronic computer systems are being used to track down 
offenders.
The penalties may seem harsh. But the cold fact remains that the law does not look 
on phone fraud as a lark. /25\(0) Bed of Pennsylvania

---------------------------------------------------

Page 4—THE TARTAN—September 23, 1975
CMU Crime
by Debbie Rosencrantz
Items of value may be registered with 
CMU Security and the Pittsburgh Police as 
part of Operation Identification, which will 
take place from October 6-10.
Head of Security, Mike Corletti and 
Pittsburgh Police officer Dave McNutt, 
stressed the importance of marking all 
portable items with either a Pennsylvania 
drivers license number, or for out of sta­
ters, a specially issued five digit number. At 
the same time, the articles will be regis­
tered with the city police. The reasons for 
marking items are to discourage burglars 
from taking things in the first place (they 
are harder to sell if marked) and to identify 
items when they are recovered by the po­
lice so they can be returned to the owners. 
Bikes, calculators, tv’s, radios, typewriters, 
clocks, stereos, and taperecorders are 
among the items that should be registered. 
The schedule of times and places for get­
ting possessions registered and marked are 
below. Take all items possible with you to 
the location, however, if this is not 
someone will accompany you to your 
room to register the articles.
Thefts on the C-MU campus averaged 
about 32 per month between January and 
April of 1975. Corletti expected the rate to 
rise this month because students are busy 
adjusting to campus life and tend to neg­
lect security matters. Officer McNutt said, 
“If students work together to make the 
campus safe by reporting unfamiliar people 
to security, and security catches a few bur­
glars, the word will get around to other 
people that CMU is not a good place to 
steal.”
According to Officer Corletti, most 
thefts occur because of inadequate locking.
Hit Ratios
continued from page 1
presented in the report, suggests that Dr. 
Cyert’s policy of charging a lower tuition 
than competitors in order to attract more 
students, has not been successful up to 
the present time. The data presented indi­
cates an inverse relationship between the 
hit ration and tuition of CMU’s competi­
tors. In almost every case, the higher the 
tuition of the competitor, the lpss likely 
an applicant to both CMU and the compe­
titor is, to come to CMU. CMU is most 
successful in competition with state 
schools charging a much lower tuition.
Two Trespassers escorted from Henderson
Good bike locks that can’t be cut with bolt 
cutters can be purchased at the bookstore 
for 13-20 dollars. He also wants to see a 
“lock on your door” campaign.
Concern has been raised by students 
over the sight of CMU Security officers 
carrying guns. Corletti explained that 
armed security officers may be seen, how­
ever, officers carry firearms only for one 
special duty involving the handling of 
money. Chemical mace is the only (wea­
pon) carried on regular duty.
Two Pitt students were removed from 
Henderson Hall on September 11 when 
they refused to give Security the name of 
their host. The case was referred to the 
Pitt Security Office.
OPERATION IDENTIFICATION
October 6 to 10 
10 am to 3 pm unless noted
6 — Donner Hall Lounge
7 — Hammerschlag House Lounge
8 — Hammerschlag House Lounge, 10 am-
12 noon
8 - Morewood Gardens Lobby, 1 pm-3 pm
9 - Morewood Gardens Lobby
10 — Mellon Institute front lounge
C-Book Corrections
The Student Phone Directory
If there are any corrections to be made 
in thefollowing information forthe C-Book. 
Send this form to Box 100 Skibo
Name 
Year _Major
Phone
New Local Address.
Another A.PHI. O. service
As well as paying for all your tuition expenses, Ar­
my ROTC Scholarships also pays for books and lab 
fees. Plus you'll receive a $100 monthly allowance 
for up to ten months a year.
If you're looking for a scholarship to get you 
through college, talk to Major John P. Carey, De­
partment of Military Science, CMU, Gym 203, Ext. 
281/282.

---------------------------------------------------



---------------------------------------------------

Page 6—THE TARTAN-September 23, 1975
MOLDY SUCES:
A Taste of That Sweet Life
by Rick Costa
Sea-weary still, they set their broad battle-hardened shields in rows along the wall, then stretched 
themselves on Herot’s benches. Their armor rang; their ash-wood spears stood in a line, gray-tipped 
and straight:the Greats’ war-gear were honored weapons.
-BEOWULF
I.
In the modern mammoth Mead hall, Skibo, mighty 
men meet and eat mass-produced meals. Spacious, 
well-windowed Skibo, with an angular exterior typical 
of the infected age of industrialized Aquarius, was con­
structed in a craze of fanatical fascination with futur­
ism to rival Chicago and Cal Tech. Yet, the once-great 
hall has grown old. Grafitti and gum cover the once 
clean walls, space-age staircases and chalk-colored ceil­
ings seem to now be part of some huge shadow sculp­
ture. Circular tables tilt, and chairs of boring beauty, 
shiny and sleek when bought, have bent legs and broken 
backs. Plastic cushions, somehow secretly split, spray 
showers of synthetic-foam stuffing whenever anyone 
sits.
Academic athletes always arrive appropriately attired, 
jeans judiciously selected, a wardrobe worn without 
extravagance, designed to protect the student’s import­
ant image from damage during the day. Apparel with 
permanent wrinkles is a positive must, producing the 
appearance of prolonged, prodigious study.
The smart, strong scholars stack their weapons on the 
tables and then sit, scuffling chairs. Plastic pocket cal­
culators prized for precision are proudly given private 
names. Only favored famous warriors flaunt the hefty 
Hewlett-Packard, others, without reknown, rely on less 
regal electronic aides. The successful soldier’s accoutre­
ments range from intricate integral tables to indispen- 
dible arc tangent approximations accurate to eight 
places, to the simple straight-edge. In addition, all who 
stride upon the field of scholarly battle tote trusted 
textbooks, their most treasured tactical tool.
Finally, the feast begins. Trays arrive with greasy 
grilled burgers topped with limp lettuce and a tiny 
tomato. Noodles, nestled in cheap cheese sauces around 
columns of colorless carrots. Faster than speeding 
bullets, fingers fling french fries and fried fish into gap­
ing jaws gulping like greedy goldfish. Noisy maws, fes­
tooned with food flecks, dribble juices, jerk in laughter 
and grind gritty hunks of bread dunked in congealed 
gravy. Ruthless appetites repeatedly empty full plat­
ters. Afterwards, skilled tongues dislodge slivers of 
gristle and lick stray kernels of corn from unclipped lip 
hairs. Cups of Coke clatter in unison with battle chatter, 
banal banterings chase each other across the table 
chaotically. One stalwart student, Bernard Woolf, stands 
and speaks.
“I, Bernard Woolf, am the greatest student that ever 
lived. My achievements are astonishing. 1 got 1483 on 
my College Boards as a junior in spite of having near 
pneumonia. 1 have carried 7 courses a semester while 
maintaining a 4.0 average. Courses that the average 
student avoids I hunger for. Nothing stops my desire to 
excel. I want to know everything: from the circumference 
of Saturn’s moons to the pulse rate of the horseshoe 
crab.” He stopped and swiftly shoveled into his proudly
sneering mouth a few fragments of french fries left lying 
on his paper plate. “Of course my academic excellence 
will continue unabated in the future. Take next week’s 
thermonuclear quantum mechanics final for example. 
Although the reputed perils of Professor Pedant’s 
infamous final have thwarted many students, 1 have no 
fear. For me, it will be a piece of cake. I’ll even take the 
test without a calculator and probably party the night 
before. My only weapon will be this famous pencil, once 
used by the legendary U.R. Stupid, who completed 4 
degrees in 3 years while attending CIT.” He held up the 
ornately engraved stub. “Naturally, I won’t stay in 
school forever. Out in the business world my serviceable 
skills will command top dollar. Within a short period my 
executive acumen and financial abilities will have earned 
me a small fortune and the respect and fear of my 
associates. As time goes on, my masterful financial 
manipulations and competitors’ mistakes will make sure 
that my assets continue to grow and grow at the expense 
of those less able, as I strive to satisfy my whetted 
appetite.” Woolf again broke off and then wiped in 
ketchup and gobbled up the remaining bit of cheese­
burger bun, his hunger for food apparently as unappease- 
able as his increasing appetite for inimitable achieve­
ments. “Assured of my independence, I will live in 
splendor, surrounded by the booty of a successful 
capitalist. Everything that money can buy I will own. 
My increasing opulence will be world-renowned. I have 
a dream that one day I’ll own a fine house with match­
ing furniture and lamps and a new car every other year.” 
II.
One of Woolfs table-mates slapped open a newspaper 
and began roughly straightening out the sheets and 
digesting the news. This desire to be well-informed, to 
be aware of uncontrollable events after they had happen­
ed, was an attempt to instill a sense of potent control 
over future uncontrollable events and to treat them as if 
they were already past, analyzed, filed away for future 
practical reference and boring. He turned immediately 
to the sports pages. With a few more stiff flips the 
exploits of those modern heroes, those dauntless shapers 
of athletic destiny, the unmistakeable aura that is the 
glory of Augusta and the grandeur of South Bend, were 
ready to provide vicarious satisfaction of prehistoric, 
Teutonic instincts.
He was about to fervently insist that the Knicks, 
with whom he felt a mystical identification, had a hell­
uva team, when he was interrupted by the student 
directly across from him. “Look what it says on the 
front page. ‘Ford Converts Country to Socialism.’” 
“What! Are you straight” “No, listen. ‘Today Gerald 
Ford announced that in three weeks he will convert the 
Constitutional precedent, he was sure Congressional or 
any other approval wasn’t necessary. When questioned 
about the details involved in the implementation of his
country to socialism. He said that although there was no 
decision, Ford replied that he isn’t exactly sure what 
socialism is, but that he has aides who would woik out 
the particulars of the transition. The difficulties the 
populace might face in adjusting during such a short 
transition period were mentioned, prompting Ford to 
state that the problems of the general public were not 
his concern.’ 1 can’t read the next part. There’s ketchup 
on it. ‘Ford said that the motive for his decision was 
personal conviction, an unimpeachable adviser. Ford 
reputedly made his decision after a Sunday visit to the 
Our Almost Holy Mother Cathedral in the nation’s 
capital. However, sources close to the President spec­
ulate that a head injury he sustained while skiing 
through Arlington Cemetary can account for both his 
trip to the cathedral and this momentous decision.’ 
A thoughtful silence fell over those assembled around 
the table. They left off eating, pushed their books aside 
and began milling over the article, interpreting and 
juxtaposing significant facts, recalling similar historical 
situations, deriving repercussions and latent conse­
quences. They were torn between the desire to be the 
first' to utter a witticism combining cynicism and smut, 
and fear of their own ignorance, which made them want 
to remain silent and defer to those wiser. A few took 
deep, solemn sips of Coke. The summit was ready to 
begin.
“Will we still be able to get beer?”
“I suppose this means that Ted Kennedy will become 
President.”
“No, you’re wrong. There’ll be no more elected 
representatives. Everybody will be told what to do and 
do it. And if they don’t they’ll be sent to Siberia.” 
“I’ll bet the Audubon Society was behind this.” 
“What effect do you think this will have on the prime 
interest rate?”
“Where was Goldwater? Where was Wallace? How 
could they let this happen?”
“They can’t do this to me. I’m a member of the Pepsi 
Generation.”
“There is no place for me anymore. My life has been 
wasted.” ,, :1
They all slowly nodded in agreement, as if they 
could have spoken what Woolf was about to say in uni­
son. “My cream-colored Olds Special with padded, re­
clining seats, my combination patio-gameroom with ro­
tating bar, revolving bed, indoor tennis court and 
frog-shaped barbacue pit, my powder room with 
wall-length mirrors, sunken tub and Spanish chandelier, 
my television with self-adjusting color, automatic ice 
cube maker and matching book shelves. All gone. 
There’s nothing left for me to do. How can such a thing 
be fair?”
Again the group was quiet. The deluge of unanswered 
questions had taken its effect. The ramifications were 
becoming too awesome for consideration. Minds groped 
for diversions, hands groped for french fries and the 
silence was soon broken. “What did the Yankees do yes­
terday?” “They lost three.”
UNIVERSITY ORATORY OF 
THE HOLY SPIRIT PARISH
CMU CAMPUS
SATURDAY MASS..............................................7iOO P;M. - Tech House
SUNDAY MASS.........................10i30 A.M. — Science Hail {Rm 7500)
DAILY MASS (Mon.-Fri.)...................................5:00 P.M. —Tech House
Fathers John WaSsh or Bob English 
Tech House 5125 Margaret Morrison 621-2911
¿oli CtRlsjs
RESHAPE AND RELAX 
tmbSr23 3,1m9b13 97r1131 5Vm oVl3u
Sauna Bofh, Mussage & Yoga by appointment only 
STUDENT DISCOUNT 
Call for a free class — 521-8279 
4354 MURRAY AVENUE IN SQUIRREL HILL

---------------------------------------------------

THE TARTAN-September 23, 1975-Page 7
• . * •***.*.•*. » ?***•’• ’ . '**.•**•*¦. • : • * • •••••• • r • * * •
A car dealer from Oil City is trying to make a deal 
with a female customer. He is walking along the beach, 
carrying his sandals in his left hand. “But you know it’s 
a company car,” he says/* If it were mine I’d let you 
have the keys without a second thought but...” There is 
a drunken silence. The sound of waves washing the shore 
washes the air. The two stop. She offers him a stick of 
gum.
“My name is Barb,” she says, and takes the sandals 
from his hand and drops them in the sand. She is wear-' 
ing a beach-length patchwork dress and an elaborately N 
embroidered “Jaws” T-shirt. Her hair wraps around her 
face as a faint breeze rolls up the dune where they are 
standing. “Isn’t the water just beautiful?” she says, part­
ing the hair in front of her face with her emerald finger­
nails.
As Martin, the car dealer, turns to look at the bay 
waters, shimmering in moonlight, Barb presses her young 
breasts up against his chest. Martin doesn’t even notice 
as she slides her hands into his pockets. “She is the 
first,” he thinks. He is no longer looking at the calm 
water of the cape, but into the clear blue eyes in front of 
him. Barb sighs and, nuzzling her head into Martin’s 
shoulder, jerks her knee hard into his crotch. There is a 
scream of anguish that fades into the night as Barb runs 
frantically down the beach toward the ferry landing.
She clenches the keys so hard in her left hand that 
the teeth furrow her palm. When she arrives at the 
landing she is aghast at the blood dripping from her 
hand. Kneeling on the landing, Barb reaches down and 
swishes her hand in the cooling bay water. She is un­
aware of the faint surge of water around the dock, or 
that a shark, catching the scent of human blood in the 
water, has gone ape-shit.
Barb hears something behind her, and just as she 
turns, the shark comes up real fast and bites off her arm 
up past the elbow. It happens so fast that she doesn’t 
even notice, and continues to swish her stub in the wa­
ter. The scent of blood is stronger now, and the shark is 
not satisfied with just an arm. He is a killing machine. 
Barb looks down into the water and notices a strange 
scent in the air. “Could that be blood?” she thinks. Just 
then she turns to see two doll-eyes staring up at her from 
the water. The shark lunges, jumps right over the pier 
and grabs the struggling girl around the mid-section, 
and takes her to his watery kingdom beneath the sea.
“Barbara Wiggley, daughter of famous gum financier 
Chewy Wiggley, president of Wiggley Gum, Inc.”
Cause of Death: “Bitten to death by shark.”
A shark attack on Amnesty Island, and the 4th of 
July only 2 days away. Quelle mauvaise chance!
Amnesty Island, named by Tod K. Chappaquidick, 
a popular local official, is an oasis of sand and sun off 
the coast of Cape Cod. Amnesty, as you know, means 
forgiveness. Tod so named the Island after an agreement 
between he and the Supreme Court that he would be 
given all the land in that area as well as an acquittal, if he 
promised to stay out of national politics.
In the summer months, Amnesty is the refuge for 
sun-hungry tourists from all along the east coast. As in 
most vacation resorts, the residents earn their money for 
the year during the summer months. There is to be a 
town meeting to discuss this so called shark attack. In 
the meantime, the beaches remain open. Children are 
laughing, playing with the water as if it were an old 
friend. “C’est toujours les enfants qui souffrent!” (It’s 
always the children who suffer!)
Deputy Broody calls the meeting to order, but his 
mind is elsewhere. Though he begged Mayor Standish to
by Greg McKenna
have the beaches closed, they remain open. His head is 
full of visions of arms and legs sinking to the bottom, 
and the ‘red tide’ that always accompanies a shark 
attack. As a matter of fact, even after everyone is seated, 
and the Deputy is introduced, he still can’t help but 
think of those chisel teeth munching off tiny tots’ tor­
sos and little lads’ legs. He begins speaking as if in a 
trance. “. . . I see blood and water. I see children disap­
pearing in the waves and leaving only large red waves to 
say good-bye to their mommies and daddies. I see a huge 
gaping hole in the middle of the ocean. It is calling to 
me, but I can’t go near it. Oh, Mother. . .” The Deputy 
covers his face with his hands and slowly sits down, 
misses the chair and lands on his tusche with a “pletth!” 
“The deputy has been under much strain of late,” 
says Mayor Standish, casually slipping Dep. Broody an­
other qualude. Broody stands up and downing a whole 
glass of water with one gulp, crushes the glass in his left 
hand. “Oh, if only you could have seen the remains of 
this poor girl!” he says, shaking his head. “She looked, 
like, like. . . like an old piece of chewing gum. . .” 
Ms. Helen P. Swartzington, a woman of considerable 
stature in the community, (known to her friends as old 
one eye) poses the question that is on the tip of every­
one’s tongue. “Deputy Broody, in view of recent events 
and considering the profound weight of the forth­
coming decision, answer me this: will the beaches remain 
closed, or should we expect an amazing cul-de-sac?” 
Broody, obviously thrown off by Ms. Swartzington’s 
New York Jewish accent replies, “Well, I think Mayor 
Standish should answer that question. , . best,” and sits 
down.
A murmur sweeps the room like a large dark wave. 
Here the folk of Amnesty are staring into the jaws of 
local politics, and they are trying to remember who paid 
the Mayor’s salary last year. Was it them, or the oil com­
panies? Soon everyone in the room is talking to anyone 
who will listen, which is no one because everyone else is 
too busy talking. Mayor Standish’s “Attention Ladies 
and Gentlemen’s” go unheeded. Each little group is 
trying to pool their resources, find allies, and prepare for 
the battle that must ensue.
Suddenly a strange noise fills the air. The townfolk 
seem to all experience a chill at the same time. It’s a 
most aggravating sound, a noise worse than fingernails 
scraping on a blackboard. Ms. Swartzington says, “Oh, I 
don’t think that’s very funny, not at all.” Soon the noise 
becomes recognizable as music coming from the quadra­
phonic JB Lansing speakers camouflaged in the corners 
of the room as American flags.
“Jive talkin’, that’s what I’m talking about.”
“Jive talkin’, m, m, m.#'
“Jive talkin’, ”
What could be the origin of this terrible sound? (The 
citizens of Amnesty had yet to go disco.) Could that be 
the same Bee Gees who sang those sad soft songs at the 
end of last summer? There could be only one expla­
nation, and as the music dies away, an all too familiar 
voice greets the islanders.
“Hi ya’ll, dis is yo’ disco bro, Gimp. D’ats de new 
sound on da dial fo’ all yo’ jive talkers out dere,” said 
the voice. “Was ya’ll talkin ‘ bout sharks? Man, I done 
had me ‘nuff sharks in my life to make me crazy.” 
“BRAUGHHAHAHAHAHEHEHEHOHOHOHOHAHA 
HAHAHAHAHA!” Crazy laughter at full volume with 
echo and reverb cranked up all the way filled the room. 
Ms. Swartzington’s glass eye cracks and falls in pieces to 
the floor with a slight tinkling sound.
“C’est toujours les enfants qui souffre. ”
An offer is made. Gimp, the proverbial old man of 
the sea in Amnesty, will track down and kill the shark 
for 100,000 Swiss francs. Everyone in Amnesty is fami­
liar with Gimp’s scarred features and unusual manner of 
speech, and they’ve all heard his story at least once. “I’ll 
tell you, once I was swallowed whole by a giant fish so 
big he coirid’a ate up dis who’ damn island o’ you’s. But 
once I was inside I wasn’t takin no shit from no whitey, 
not even if he was a shark. I tell ya\ I chiseled my way 
outta dat dude wit a Lousiana license plate I found on 
da’ inside. Man, dem sharkeys eats everythin’. I got dese 
here scratches on my face by bein’ run over by de coast 
guard boat that I thought was commin’ ta pick ine up 
outta drink. Jesus knows what woulda happen if Mabel 
hadn’t come along!”
“Well, Gimp,” says Mayor Standish, “We’ll have to 
see about your offer. That’s a lot of maholla’s you’re 
talking about.” The crowded room is silent. The one yet 
unanswered question hangs in the room like a seagull in 
a strong wind. A brave voice speaks, (the seagull moves 
on). “Ah, Deputy, will the beaches stay open or not?” 
Everyone in the room says “yeah” in unison. Broody 
standi up, swaying from side to side. The concerned cit­
izens of Amnesty lean forward in their chairs, waiting 
for the final verdict, like seagulls waiting for food.
Just then a young boy bursts into the room. “Jesus 
Christ! Is this a town meeting or a charades conven­

---------------------------------------------------

Page 8-THE TARTAN-September 23, 1975
tion?” The brightly clad figure finds his way to tjie front 
of the room and says, “Hi there stranger, you must be 
Deputy Broody. I can tell from your expression.” There 
is silence as the crowd waits to find out who this queer 
fellow might be. “I’m just a lonely guy, from out of 
town. You know, looking for a little action.” he says. 
“I’m really into sharks. Got any?”
Ms. Swartzington expresses the entire community’s 
sentiments, saying, “I don’t think that’s funny, not 
funny at all.”
“Listen sister,” retorts the stranger, “I don’t either. 
There I was in my private room at the Boatslip, just 
mixing up a rum and coke with a twist of lime for this 
little. . . er, for a friend, when suddenly there was a fran­
tic knocking, knocking, knocking at my door. When I 
opened it a man wearing a black suit and a pink carna­
tion handed me this telegram from Wiggley Gums, Inc. 
So I rushed right over here, just like it said in the tele­
gram, but you know, I hate to miss Provincetown over 
the Fourth of July. I mean, there’s just so many.. . peo­
ple!”
“Hold it, Hold it,” interrupted Mayor Standish. “You 
can skip the details for now Mr., er Mr. .
“Hoover. Max Hoover, but you can call me Maxie.” 
“Ok. . . Maxie. What we want to know is what can 
you tell us about this shark problem.”
“Well, let me put it to you this way,” Max sat on the 
desk directly in front of Deputy Broody, crossed his 
knees, and casually lit up a Sylvia Thins. “You say barra­
cuda to a group of people and they say Chevey, but you 
say shark, and you got a panic on your hands on the 4th 
of July.” An Ominous silence pervaded the room as Max 
Hoover blew smoke rings into the air over his mesmer­
ized audience. He continued, “After examining the 
wounds on this last victim, I can tell you that what you 
have on your hands is a whale of a problem. HHHAHA 
HAHAHAHA. Get it, Whale?”
Apparently no one else in the room caught the joke. 
The men leaning against the chalkboard were beginning 
to practice splitting hairs with their fishing knives. There 
was a deep-felt resentment for City Folk on Amnesty 
Island, especially for those kind that put on airs of being 
educated. Two big fishermen near the front reached out 
and grabbed Maxie, pulling off his wig and tearing his 
Pierre Cardin sweater.
“You brutes,” he yelled. Just as they were about to
‘scale his heights,’ (so to speak), the door burst open and 
a man wearing a black suit and a pink carnation came 
panting in. “A shark, a big mother, just ate a whole 
troop of boy scouts who were swimming over to 
Martha’s Innards for their merit badges, a kid on a raft, 
four Coast Guard boats, and a Colonel Sanders Fried 
Chicken place. Oh the water’s all red, and all the 
mothers of those little boys are waiting outside to slap 
Deputy Broody because he knew there was a shark *out 
there.”
“Yikes,” said Broody, as he hid under the table.
“Wait a second. Wait just a gosh darn second here.” 
said Mayor Standish. “We’re all self-respecting White An- 
glo-Saxon Protestants here. So why should we risk our 
necks to get this shark?”
Everyone in the room shouted, “Yeah!” The Mayor 
continued, “Let’s send these social misfits out to get 
'em.” The crowd went crazy. Before you could say 
“jaws” Deputy Broody, Max(ie) Hoover, and Bro. Gimp 
were out on the open sea, searching for the Shark. 
* * *
“Max, do you know just what it is we’re looking 
for?” asked Deputy Broody as he shoveled pieces of 
chopped pickled herring into the boat’s wake. “A 
shark, Deputy,” replied Hoover, lighting another Thin. 
“But not just any shark. This is a fish rare for these 
waters, but the most deadly of all.” Hoover casually 
lifted his leg and buffed the tips of his white patent 
leather pennyloafers on the calves of his trousers. 
“What we’re looking for is a Great Bite Shark. It’s the 
only fish in the whole world with a perfectly matched 
set of teeth.
* * *
The schooner, provided by Wiggley Inc., was painted 
like a pack of Spearmint gum, and was appropriately 
named, the Spearmint. Gimp ordered that they cut the 
engine and drift with the tide. “We’ll just wait for that 
old sharkey to find us.” Gimp was the sort of captain 
who ruled with an iron fist. He got to be captain because 
he said he wouldn’t go unless he got the number 1 spot. 
He’d read Moby Dick many times and had played Ahab
every year in the town Christmas play, even when they 
did The Glass Menagerie.
For days the crew of the Spearmint drifted with the 
tide, waiting and watching for a sign of the Great Bite. 
After a while, boredom set in. A man can only take so 
much of the sun and the ocean before he begins to 
change. Each one secretly dreamed of that great fish de­
vouring them whole. But they never talked about that, 
because none of them wanted to be the sissy of the 
crew. Even Max Hoover, the more sensitive member of 
the crew, toughened up under the pressure. To keep 
himself sane he spent hours writing his phone number on 
slips of paper and putting them into half-pint Chivas Re­
gal bottles and throwing them into the ocean. “This is 
just in case I ever get back to Provincetown,” he ex­
plained to Deputy Broody.
Gimp would pass his time making straw dolls of the 
villagers of Amnesty. On special days he wore an out­
landish costume and the Deputy and Max know that 
they’d better spend that day in their quarters. “Ya’ll
A series of three programs dealing with
Organizational Systems 
for Student Activities
Sat., Sept. 27th 10:00 A.M. to 4:00 P.M.. GSIA 
Lounge
Internal Organizational Needs
Conducted by Ed Conlon, GSIA
Topics Include: Effective leadership/management;
Power in numbers; and motivations for join Student
Activities.
Sat., Oct. 4th 10:00 A.M. to 4:00 P.M., GSIA 
Lounge
Marketing Your Product
Topics include: determining effectiveness 
of your organization; mechanism for evaluating 
your structure and product; and marketing your 
product well so that people know what you're about.
Sat., Oct. 18th 10 A.M. to 4:00 P.M., Room 11, 
Sklbo
University Resources
How to session on the use of accounting 
system, setting up and maintaining accurate 
books, stretching your budget; and identifying 
potential problem areas.
Lunch will be provided.
Sign up at Skibo Info Desk.
Sponsored by Student Activities.
COMMITTEE APPOINTMENTS
If you are interested in serving on a trustee, 
faculty, or campus committee, leave a card with 
your name, address, phone number and class year 
at the information desk in Skibo. Include the com­
mittee you desire. The following positions are 
open:
TRUSTEE: DEVELOPMENT AND PLANNING 
1 SOPHOMORE, 1 JUNIOR 
TRUSTEE: EDUCATIONAL AFFAIRS 
1 SOPHOMORE, 1 JUNIOR 
TRUSTEE: STUDENT AFFAIRS
1 FRESHMAN, 1 SENIOR, 1 GRAD 
TRUSTEE: BUILDING AND GROUNDS 
1 SOPHOMORE, 1 JUNIOR 
TRUSTEE: BUDGET AND FINANCE
1 SOPHOMORE
FACULTY: EDUCATIONAL AFFAIRS
2 JUNIORS, 1 SENIOR, 2 GRADS 
FACULTY: STUDENT AFFAIRS
1 FRESHMAN, 1 SOPHOMORE 
DISCIPLINARY COMMITTEE
1 SOPHOMORE, 1 SENIOR FOR FALL SEMESTER 
PUBLIC OCCASION
2 JUNIORS 
SECURITY COMMITTEE
1 FRESHMAN, 1 SOPHOMORE
all appointments are approved by student senate.

---------------------------------------------------

THE TARTAN-September 23, 1975-Page 9
better be good or the next dolls I make will be o’you!” 
he’d say.
The Deputy spent most of his time staring into the 
waves. Occasionally he drew his pistol and shot wildly in­
to the water, shouting “I got him, I got him, I got him.” 
When that happened Max just gave him another qualude 
and told him to sit down.
^ One day Broody let out a terrible scream, and Gimp 
and Hoover came rushing out to see the tail of the Great 
•¦bite Shark disappear into the shimmering water. “I’m 
blind, I’m blind,” cried the Deputy. “I’ve heard stories 
of this happening, but I never thought that they were 
true,” said Hoover. “Some Great Bite’s have such shiney 
teeth that they can blind their intended victims by the 
sheer brilliance of their smiles.” “Lordy,” said Gimp. 
“Lordy.”
Finally, after God knows how many days of waiting 
and anticipating, it happened. The crew of the Spear­
mint knew ever since Broody’s temporary blindness that 
the shark was after them. (Broody and Hoover both 
wore Cool Rays after that, but Gimp refused, saying he 
was already Cool enough.) They were having their usual 
dinner of Mrs. Paul‘s fish cakes fried in whale grease, 
when a story-telling urge came over all of them. “Hey, 
^ Gimp, what’s that scar on your forearm there?” asked 
'IF Hoover, tearing off a piece of the fishcake with his bare 
hands and stuffing it into his mouth.
“Why dat’s my voodoo initiation scar. When I was 16 
my mama cut a hole in my forearm and filled it up with 
sand. She said “Gimphinius, for 13 days and 13 nights 
yo’gonna hav’to fight the debil. If you’s a man, yo’win. 
If yo’aint, den I get’s 50 dollar for givin’im you sol.” I 
showed dat demon!” said Gimp proudly.
“Well, that’s nothing,” said Hoover. He moved over 
k> next to the Captain and rolled up his pant leg. “Look 
at this!” There was a long squiggly scar running from the 
middle of his thigh to the top of his ankle bone. “Feel 
it” he said. Gimp felt it. “Feel it again.” Gimp felt it 
again. “Again!” “Now I aint touchin yo leg again unless 
yo tell me how yo got that scar.” “Shit, well it was like 
this. I was walking home through Central Park one night 
when some guy asked me what time it was. Me being in a 
® good mood, I stopped and next thing I knew there was
• eight guys all over me doing all kinds of terrible things. 
One of them was wearing an earring and that’s how I got 
this scar.” “Oh, I see.” said Gimp. “Again. .The two 
men went on showing each other their scars, telling 
stories, while Deputy Broody just looked on. He felt left 
out, being a married man and having only a scar from an 
appendectomy, which is nothing to show off in the 
middle of the night when you’re shark hunting. Broody 
^ fell asleep, thinking these thoughts and feeling inade- 
quate, and sad that he wasn’t one of the boys.
Thump!
Thump!
Thump!
Broody awoke to this terrible thumping noise, the 
who^f boat was shaking, and the lights were out. “Hey 
you guys, what’s going on?” There was a giggle in the 
dark, when suddenly one of the floorboards broke, and 
water came rushing in. “Holy shit,” said Hoover, “it’s 
found us!”
There was a rattle of metal as the three men ran to se­
cure their posts. But what posts? They hadn’t bothered 
to take any. The GB kept on his vicious attack of the
Spearmint. Broody switched on the lights just in time to 
see the GB open his tremendous jaws and take a huge 
bite out of the side of the boat. “Christ, we’re sunk 
now!” he said. The boat keeled over to the side; Hoover 
was out on the deck putting together a shark cage that 
he’d snuck on board. Broody didn’t have time to think. 
There was a sick knot in the middle of his stomach, and 
he knew that somewhere he was being double crossed. 
(It had been at least 4 hours since his last qualude and 
his paranoid-schizophrenic personality was beginning to 
overtake him. Withdrawal!)
Gulls filled the air above the sinking boat as the first 
rays of sunrise tinted the peaceful ocean. The boat had 
been sinking for half an hour, and the shark had not re­
turned to finish them off. Hoover was standing on deck 
in the shark cage, waiting for the boat to sink. He was 
wearing his wet suit and had his shark gun ready. Gimp, 
who told the Deputy and Hoover that from then on he 
wanted to be called Ahab, was standing on the upper 
deck with a harpoon gun in his hands. He had tied the 
rope attached to the end of the harpoon to his ankle. 
“This is the only part of the book I didn’t get to act
out.” he said. Broody was searching everywhere for his 
qualudes. “Do you know what the ballast for this boat 
is?” he said as he climbed the steps from the lower hold. 
No one cared. “Chewing gum,” he said. “Cases and cases 
of sugared chewing gum.” Ever since sugarless came into 
vogue, Wiggley’s has been selling excess sugared gum as 
boat ballast to boat manufacturers.
They saw a flash in the distance, and knew what it 
meant. The Shark charged the boat at full speed, crashed 
through the lopsided hull and knocked Ahab (Gimp) off 
his feet.
Terrible screaming filled the air, drowning out the 
gull’s gentle cooing as the GBS swallowed Ahab (Gimp) 
whole. Before you could even say “Call me Ishmael”, he 
was gone, down the hatch. Broody and Hoover watched 
on in horror. They were mesmerized by the exquisite 
symmetry of the shark’s jaw. While Ahab (Gimp) was 
being eaten, Hoover got out of the shark cage and said, 
“He must have an enprmous swartzinger.” Broody tried 
to stop him, shouting to go back, and to wake up, but 
to no avail. Hoover was so enchanted by the shark’s pri­
mordial beauty that he walked right over and patted it 
on the head. “Oh, you lovely creature.” he said. The
shark, having just finished Ahab (Gimp), turned and bit 
off Hoover’s arm. Hoover said, “take me you hole” and 
dove head first into the shark’s gleeming mouth.
The shark, aware that there was one more possible 
meal here for him, turned his machine-like eyes on 
Broody. The Deputy, not anxious to be dessert, grabbed 
a case of Wiggley’s spearmint gum that had floated up 
from the hold and threw it into the shark’s gaping maw. 
The shark bit down, and soon, had a mouthful of the 
most awful gum in the world. If only his dentist could 
have seen! Broody continued throwing cases of gum to 
the shark who, seeming to enjoy the sweet treat, just 
stayed there.
The Great Bite’s teeth are so delicate, so perfect, that 
it didn’t take long for the nasty sugar to take it’s toll. 
Within an hour the deck of the sinking boat was covered 
with brown, rotting shark’s teeth. Teeth so decayed that 
they wouldn’t even make good charms for swimmers. 
After two hours, all that was left of the Great Bite’s 
fearsome Jaws were a pair of bleeding gums.
The original idea for Trapeze was inspired by the New 
York Times Magazine Supplement. We figured that if 
New York had it, then Pittsburgh, or more specifically 
Carnegie-Mellon, should have it. But since then other in­
fluences have shaped the direction of the magazine. I 
mean there’s probably a lot of people on campus who 
don’t even read the New York Times (myself for one). 
So to broaden the appeal of the Magazine, and in the 
name of relevance, it was decided that students should 
probably choose what they want to read about. Trapeze 
thus became whatever it is you want it to be. We place 
emphasis on Feature Articles on campus personalities 
and programs and interviews with interesting people 
who happen to be in the area. Trapeze, instead of being 
about the student, is designed for the student, to provide 
a few minutes of entertainment to the lonely student 
after a hard day in the classroom.
More than anything, what I need to say is that 
Trapeze relies primarily on free-lance submissions for its 
sustanence. We’re looking for interested illustrators, 
cartoonists, writers and satirists to submit their work 
and take a chance at being locked at and read. Trapeze 
is located in Room 50, Skibo Hall, just like the rest of 
the TARTAN staff. Just be sure to write Trapeze on the 
material, so it gets to the right place.

---------------------------------------------------

Page 10-THE TARTAN-September 23, 1975TRAPEZE
The TerraceL
/
S''
V
by Mark Evan Chimsky
/?
mm
Margaret had always loved terraces. They were the 
independent part of a suite-that little, unexpected dare 
of jutting deck and intricate wrought iron. Its light, 
open-air freedom challenged the very same four-walled 
flat which supported it. They were inextricably joined 
together--the enclosure forced to complement the ex­
posed. How Margaret loved to draw open the French 
doors of this familiar hotel room and gaze out upon the 
charming, quiet, sunlit terrace.
“The sea is a wonderful blue this morning. It matches 
the sky.”
Margaret smiled as her husband spoke, not quite 
catching what he said. But she would not let on. He 
hated to repeat himself.
“Will you take tea?”
“A small cup.”
Margaret poured with quick, measured grace; added 
three cubes of sugar to the full cup, and stirred. This 
was their morning ceremony, conducted to perfection 
over the years. They lived polite lives. Their marriage 
was composed with all the care and keen affluence of 
their breakfast table. The order had become habit; the 
pace was easy, efficient. Margaret served Quentin his tea.
# •••
s)
W7
“Thank you.”
How much older we are, thought Margaret, as she 
folded the napkin in her hand. She was all sharp angles; 
now wrinkles gathered round the curt bone of her wrist. 
She dabbed at her slightly parted lips-they had grown 
taut and edged with age. “It has been a lovely anniver­
sary.”
“As always.”
“Over much too soon.” Her husband touched her 
hand gently. He had fared well. His face was firmly 
lined, and his eyes still flashed with a gold-green inten­
sity. His hand weighed warmly against her small, closed 
fist. She would be sad to leave this resort with its lazy 
stretch of beach and cool water flecked with pale, dart­
ing bodies. Every spring for forty years, the two of them 
had come here, to celebrate; to pass another anniversary 
in this drowsy-dry Southern climate. They sat quite still 
on the terrace, looking out. Time had not changed the 
shore.
Quentin held Margaret’s hand tightly for a moment, 
then he went about opening his vitamins and counting 
an even number out. Margaret set her knife upon an 
empty plate. She smiled a little at her husband.
“I rather doubt you’ll catch anything with this 
weather.”
Quentin returned her smile, almost seemed to mock 
it. “One never knows.”
He swallowed the white tablets with the last of his 
tea. Margtre* turned to face the ocean-how endless it 
seemed-’ jpetitive, but calm. People laughed and child­
ren stumbled in the sand while the waves lapped, yet 
she heard nothing. They were too distant; the noise did 
not carry. Only a vague, rushing sound. It was like
watching a silent film. Margaret inclined one of the 
flowers of the centerpiece toward her, and spoke. 
“Have we any plans for today?”
“Simply to relax.” Quentin paused, checking his 
watch. “Oh, and I promised Tom Hanley a final game of 
chess in a quarter of an hour.”
“Ah, so I shall be left to my own resources.” It was 
not the first time. Countless nights of dinner alone; 
business excursions and conferences, and she did not 
really believe much of it. There were times, earlier, when 
he would look so fiercely restless, his eyes would wander 
and hisvoice trailed absently. He resembled a man bound 
by rope, carefully, urgently trying to untie each knot. 
These lapses had now ceased to recur, like some odd 
unspoken disease that gradually goes away. There was 
no longer anything furtive about his glance. He rested in 
his chair confortably. Margaret flicked a mosquito away 
•and clasped her hands together, staring straight at her 
husband. -“You know, you’re very lucky I’m not like 
other wives--I don’t shadow your steps, keeping watch 
over you-”
‘Yes, and I have always been most appreciative of 
your . .. independence.”
“-After all,” Margaret resumed airily, “how do I 
know you pass the hours downstairs, checkmating a 
Mr. Haley? I imagine there’s a hoard of nubile young 
girls here, just waiting to be debauched in secret rooms.” 
Quentin sat up, genuinely surprised and sympathetic. 
He extended his hand in a gesture of reassurance, speak­
ing deliberately. “Then they must look elsewhere.” 
It appeared as if whatever elusive infidelities had 
been, were now resolutely over. Margaret lowered her 
eyes and gave a kind sort of nod that might have meant 
“Right” or “Thank you” or perhaps, both. She felt a 
whirl of victory flutter like confetti within her. He is 
good to me, she thought, and we have grown so much 
older. It was foolish of me to worry. He is not so 
young...
Lately, Margaret had accustomed herself to a sexual 
life which merely punctuated holidays-birthdays, 
New Years, an anniversary. No longer spontaneous, 
their intimacies were well-spaced, specific occasions. 
Margaret preferred such regimen. A passionate endeavor 
at any other time would have simply jarred the balance 
of a life unremarkably planned.
Still, she was curious about the women who had 
threaded their way darkly through her marriage, and 
then slipped away without a trace. These shadowy 
women, who had enraged her, grieved her, and caused 
her to confess silently “I don’t want to know,” now 
made her curious, as a cat is riveted by a slightly opened 
dresser.
“Quentin, it would not bother me if you were to 
speak of the others. 1 know there once were others. Now 
that it’s past, I’d like to be able to laugh about them 
with you.”
Quentin brushed her comment aside with a casual 
wave of his hand. “Don’t be foolish.” The motion 
seemed strangely empty and forced.
“Quentin, we’re too old for lies. Let’s not haggle 
about the truth. Please tell me!'
“Do you really want to know?” Quentin’s face turn­
ed serious, distant, as if he were a general reviewing 
strategy. “You won’t think me cruel and heartless?” 
Margaret’s voice was soft, a whisper. “No, never.” 
He paused for a moment, sighed, then began to speak. 
It was the first time Margaret thought him awkward. “I 
have always wanted to tell you. But I never knew quite 
where to begin.” He shifted in his chair, laughed ner­
vously till the laughter became a cough. “Excuse me. I 
always wondered who the truth hurts,” he said, mas­
saging his throat, “now I know.” Margaret smiled with 
tender encouragement. “Weak joke ... well, where was
I? Ah, yes, you wanted to know about the young 
women. Yes, but you see, there were no young 
women . . . they were all, rather more precisely, young 
men ...”
And as he continued, the sun seemed to strike stron­
ger. Quentin fumbled for the right words and leaned 
over the table, closer to Margaret. She noticed a small 
bead of perspiration forming on his forehead, and fol­
lowed its thin, uneven slide near his animated eyes, 
down his cheek. He spoke haltingly; strained a bit to 
yield up the secret, prized male names, and eventually 5 
abandoned the use of them altogether, in favor of pro­
nouns. Margaret nodded when it seemed appropriate and 
kept her glance level, but she could not concentrate on 
the words. She had dealt with deaths and births-expect- 
ed astonishments--and thought this too could be received 
in the same way. Instead, she felt tricked by the collap­
sing of a trap floor-falling, and suspended in flight-- 
winnings lost to laughter, and no applause.
“All of them were chance acquaintances. I’ve not 
upset you, have I? It all happened very long ago .. . and 
as there were no children to fuss about ...” He bent 
his head. “You have always been my truest love. With­
out you, I never would have lasted as I have.” Quentin 
tugged at the sleeve of his dressing-gown, straightening 
it. “I spent years searching for the honesty, the words . . 
but I never was very good at such sharing. Well, now it’s 
done and I’m happy you’re here. I feel nearer to you this 
morning than I have ever felt before.” His eyes welled ’ 
with tears. Margaret, with a swift, bird-like gesture, 
began to stroke Quentin’s hand, barely touching it.
“How lucky I am to have you.” She said, fingers 
playing cautiously against the freckled, darker skin. 
And the words sounded rehearsed, as Quentin’s once 
had, years before.
The sun had conceded to clouds, and the sky turned 
faded-a hollow luminosity. Quentin coughed hoarsely, ? 
covering his mouth with his hand. He turned his wrist * 
and squinted at his watch. “Oh, I’m, afraid I’m late. 
Tom Hanley’s probably waiting-I promised him a last 
game before I left.” Quentin rose abruptly, kissed 
Margaret, and stepped indoors.
She sat alone a short while before her husband shout­
ed with great bravura, “I’m off!” and rattled the front 
door shut. Margaret could not move-she stared at the 
gleaming table arranged for two. The symmetry seemed * 
worthless, courteous and false. But it was her life-she * 
had diligently planned and practised it, and there was no 
letting go. There would be no upset. Nothing broken. 
Every thing would remain in place.
There was no guessing Quentin’s expression. Time 
may conform a restive glance-mellow it with age till 
the search is conducted with calm discretion. What 
intrigues had she not heard of? Had Tom Hanley 
probably waited?
They would not question one another again. There f 
was no more room for answers which might add to or 
subtract away from the established sum. Mornings 
would follow with regular promise of breakfasts on 
balconies and talk of weather and stocks and the passing 
of friends. And sometimes they would sit in the half- 
light of dimming days and, in understood silence, they 
would take each other’s hand; forgive, and slowly learn 
to be forgiven.
A breeze startled the drooping centerpiece, scattering , 
dead petals across the polished silver and fine linen. 
Margaret stood stiffly, and began walking toward the 
suite; deserting the concrete delta with its fresh air and 
view. She entered the badly-lit apartment, turned the 
latch and locked the lovely French doors. Margaret 
smiled. Behind the sheer, framed curtain, the small 
terrace seemed hardly there at all.

---------------------------------------------------

THE TARTAN—September 23, 1975—Page 11
Self-paced
by Laurie Trask
Over the past few years, self-paced 
courses have expanded rapidly from being 
found only in the Modern Language De­
partment, to almost every department on 
campus. The self-paced courses themselves 
are not such a new innovation. The idea of 
learning at the student’s pace, rather than 
at the teacher’s rate, has been around since 
the 1920’s.
About four years ago, the French class 
at the elementary level offered a self-paced 
course. Since then, other languages have 
been added to the list of self-paced classes. 
In German, for example, Dr. Thomas Kam- 
la runs an elementary class. He believes 
there are several good reasons for taking a 
self-paced course. “One reason why we’re 
into self-paced courses is to give the non- 
H&SS student the opportunity to take a 
language, where they would not be able to 
fit it into their schedule otherwise. Also, a 
student can spend more time on whatever 
section he wishes to emphasize. For ex­
ample, if a student is going to visit Ger­
many, he may wish to emphasize his pro­
nunciation skills. Of course, he can’t let the 
other three sections (listening, reading, and 
writing) slide.” For the most part, those 
studying languages at their own speed 
have done very well, due in part to the 
language lab and frequently updated 
material.
“Modern languages shouldn’t be com­
pared with the engineering or science 
schools.” Dr. Stanley Charap of the Electri-
cal Engineering Department has said, con­
cerning the program. Charap has taught 
several self-paced (though he prefers to call 
them “Personalized Systems of Instruc­
tion”) courses on Field Analysis. He ex­
plained that, in the sciences, peer proctors 
are very important. “Most of the self-paced 
students would go to the peer proctors if 
they had any questions. I would meet on a 
regular basis with the proctors, to discuss 
any problems. If a student was having any
continued from page 1 
campus. SDC will check out the possibility 
of serving seconds in the Skibo Kiltie cafe­
teria. This was requested by many last 
year, but the situation may have changed 
since Food Service started serving the more 
varied menu in Skibo. Jacobs hopes to send 
out a survey probably during mid-semester 
to check out student feelings.
SDC will also look into the present over­
crowding situation in a futuristic sense — as
Innovation
serious difficulty, he could come to me to 
talk it out.”
Peer proctors are upperclass students 
who have already taken the course. Stu­
dents in a self-paced course can call on 
them for tutoring or for use as resource 
people. Dan Auman is one of the proctors, 
and, after taking five self-paced courses 
thinks that, “The success of a self-paced 
course depends on the person’s own ini­
tiative, and how the course was structured. 
Some professors make up detailed study 
guides, and others just give you syllabuses.” 
Dr. Charap described his method ot 
running a self-paced course. “I give each 
student a study guide, with the objective 
of the course listed, along with motiva­
tional material. Each student also has a 
textbook. While I assign homework, I do 
not collect it. When the student feels 
ready, he takes a test. If he passes, he goes 
on to the next section. If he fails, he goes 
back over the material he does not under­
stand.” When asked about the success of 
his self-paced course, he said, “Last year, I 
taught the same course as a lecture course 
and a self-paced course. I gave the same 
final to both classes. On the average, the 
self-paced students scored a grade higher 
than those in the lecture class.”
Not every self-paced class does quite 
that well, however, “One thing that made 
me nervous last year was that the slower 
students were forgetting things after each 
unit,” admitted Dr. Hugh Young of the 
Physics Department. “And their finals de­
finitely showed that. Next time, I will in­
clude more review units, so the students
can better synthesize the course as a 
whole.”
There are both advantages and disad­
vantages to taking self-paced courses. A 
highly motivated student can easily com­
plete more of a text before a conventional 
class could. For a slow student, he can tai­
lor the material to meet his own needs. But 
procrastination seems to be a problem, 
and; reminds Dr. Charap, “ignorance 
accumulates”.
to whether the university will admit so 
many next year and as to what can be done 
to prevent a replay of this year’s condi­
tions.
Also relating to housing, SDC will study 
the current “squatter’s rights” policy in 
which those claiming this right are first 
housed, to be followed by the estimated 
number of freshmen to be admitted in ‘76, 
then by this year’s juniors, sophmores, and 
freshmen. There is no guarantee that this
Plato Program
continued from page 1 
Chemistry. As it is a “patient teacher,” 
the student can work on whatever concepts 
are especially bothering him over and over 
again. Unfortunately, there is a drawback 
to this. Once a specific lesson section is 
punched in, it must be entirely completed. 
One or two parts can’t be skipped over, in 
order to get a different part of the same 
section. Either everything in a section is 
completed, or it is skipped.
Another interesting aspect of the
year’s freshmen will get rooms next year if 
over-crowding again occurs. SDC hopes 
that it will be able to help the administra­
tion to formulate some final decision con­
cerning this policy.
Controversy has arisen over the irregular 
election procedure used by SDC for select­
ing representatives. Dorm residents were 
polled by Jacobs and one other SDC offi­
cer going door to door to distribute ballots, 
Students not in their rooms when they 
came around were unable to vote. Some 
dorm residents have questioned the value 
of an election where students were denied 
the right to vote by not being in their 
room when the ballots were distributed. In 
response to these charges Jacobs replied 
that he and one other SDC officer were 
available to distribute ballots, any other 
method would have been impossible for 
two people to handle. Jaco’" justified the 
fairness of the election pointing out 
that more than 60*/r of all eligible voted 
and in only one case was there contest 
over the seat, all other candidates ran un­
opposed.
PLATO system is its simplicity to operate. 
Three computer courses emphasizing 
BASIC and FORTRAN are not necessary. 
When a terminal f is free, the screen reads: 
“Press NEXT to start.” From there on, it is 
basically self-explanatory.
CMU is one of the few schools in the re­
gion to participate in the PLATO project. 
Pitt has three terminals, one of which is 
being used in a special demographic study, 
and the other is used exclusively by the 
Learning, Research, and Development 
Center.
Plato stands for Programmed Logic 
for Automatic Teaching Operation.
Randy BeckerA-lDonner
L. Holly Smith103Donner
Robert Regis304Doner
Bill Hunter116Scobell
Neville Evans202Welch
Keith McDonald108Henderson
Chud Fuellgraf310Boss
Al Spicksofsky102McGill
Tim Anderson300McGill
Alan GoodfellowA208Hamerschlag
Mark BorlandB200Hamerschlag
Jeff EllrodB321Hamerschlag
Jane Batyko206Donner
Moira Peel4A7Morewood
Sue Meyer5D10Morewood
Judi Vitale7C9Morewood
Amy Boyle7BI1Morewood
Kim Davis2B6Morewood
Trace Shaheen4B10Morewood
Al Hepp302 EMorewood
Mike Shaunessy5I3EMorewood
Fred Wright710EMorewood
Eloise PugarClMudge
Jacobs' SDC Plans
B’NAI B'RITH HILLEL-JEWISH UNIVERSITY CENTER
SIMCHAT TORAH
Service and Celebration 
with refreshments
Saturday 
September 27 7 P.M. 
Where? Hillel Lounge
3rd Floor - 315 S. Beliefield
315 S. BELLEFIELD AVENUE (Across from Heinz Chapel)
621-8875
SDC ELECTION RESULTS
Self paced Chemistry students

---------------------------------------------------

Page 12-THE TARTAN-September 23, 1975
are not a factory
WITH HYDROPNEUMATIC CHAIRS, ELECTRIC CLIPPERS 
AND A MOTORIZED BARBERPOLE
WE are not a marble temple
of Commercial Fashion with Pastel Portraits of 
Breck Girls on Rhinestone Walls.
We are a creative salon 
We emphasize the individual and the natural 
We surround you with live plants, warm woods 
and professional competence. 
We offer you a different way to go
DEJA-VIEW
A round-up of films on campus and long- 
runs around the Pittsburgh area.
Dedicated to Diane, Heis, and Isabel
by Mark EvanChimsky
ALICE DOESN’T LIVE HERE ANY­
MORE- A film with enough rough edges 
to counter its own sit-com feel and the 
somewhat hokey, Prince Charming ending. 
Ellen Burstyn is Alice, widowed and fraz­
zled and desperate to get somewhere des­
pite the odds. Alfred Lutter III is her zany 
son, who can’t tell a joke straight-- his 
quirky humanity makes him his own best 
joke. The picture, directed by Martin 
Scorsese, details the manic love/hate 
intimacies between mother and son better 
than any film I’ve ever seen. The eclectic 
score is full of odd surprises and fits beauti­
fully, as does the exquisite supporting 
cast.
LOVE AND DEATH- Woody Allen 
goes cerebral in this sumptuous send-up 
of Dostoevski and Ingmar Bergman. 
It’s hilarious in a small way- Allen may get 
his biggest laughs with the sophmoric 
sight gags or bits of recycled vaudeville, 
but the routines are not usually belly- 
laugh simple; they are quietly absurd. 
With this film, American audiences are 
forced to grapple with a more subtle New 
Yorker-styled humor. My favorite scene 
is the one in which Allen and his lifetime 
sweetheart, Sonja, (played by Diane 
Keaton), are bedded in provincial bliss and 
Allen, having finally sanctified his anxious 
sexuality with the proper Russian conven­
tion, (that is, marriage), reaches eagerly for 
his new bride, who in turn slaps him on 
the wrist, and pulling the bed covers 
around herself, indignantly murmurs, “Not 
here!”
The film is a lightweight classic- it is 
not Woody Allen’s “Gold Rush”- the sight 
gags are just too silly, and beginning to 
show their age. Still, this is Allen at his 
idiosyncratic best. He is like some crazed 
Edvard Munch character- but with a sense 
of humor. The ending, with Allen jigging 
through a grove of trees with Death as a 
dancing partner, is glorious.
Performance — Appalling artsy-craftsiness. 
Some nice stuff about androgyny, but it 
all gets lost in the dross. With James Fox 
and Mick Jagger. It makes one terrible mis­
take — it is too dull to even be camp.
Who's Afraid of Virginia Woolf? — Essen­
tially about the desperate human need for 
mythologies. George and Martha are the 
couple who play out the hate of their love 
with brutal skill. Mike Nichols brilliantly 
directed Edward Albee’s theatrical tug of 
war in black and white, with the kind of 
high contrast that evokes those stark, run- 
on autumn evenings.
Elizabeth Taylor is the frowzy Martha.and 
her performance is gutsy and sad and vital 
in a perfect way. She exacts every nuance
connects Martha’s wanting with all of 
Martha’s loss and it becomes an unshakeable 
moment of film artistry. As George, 
Richard Burton is a marvel of low-key 
intensity. He is the near-sighted History 
professor; the paunchy myth-maker for a 
marriage that is lost in the dark.
Everything about him sags; he has all the 
weary, mock-sincerity of an academic, who 
has resigned himself too early to too little. 
His rage at, and the eventual purging of 
his marriage’s comfortable repetoire of 
mythologies is tight with an agonized 
ferocity. When he’s mad, he doesn’t lose 
his textbook cool-he stokes it. Burton 
seems to savor the underplaying, and the 
role works beautifully for him. This is 
the kind of film, in fact, where just 
about everything goes right. Nichols 
only goofs occasionally, and it’s
Elizabeth
from Martha, a woman who has spent her 
life failing and who hates her husband as 
much as herself for putting up with her 
failure. “. . . George whom I will not for­
give for having come to rest; for having 
seen me and having said: yes, this will do; 
who has made the hideous, the hurting, the 
insulting mistake of loving me and must be 
punished for it. George and Martha: sad, 
sad, sad,” she says, her heavy body slack 
against a screen door in the middle of the 
night.
Later on, when she delivers the speech 
about the birth of her ‘son’, Ms. Taylor
Taylor
usually in scenes where the original 
play’s dialogue has been re-shaped
or overhauled entirely to fit the
film’s tokenly expansive look, (the
bit in the bar is really too bad.) Still,
it’s an impressive first movie by Nichols.
With remarkable performances by Sandy 
Dennis and a very young-looking George 
Segal as the doomed ‘other’ couple, and 
a quiet even-measured score that seems 
almost to comfort the frightened
violences of Albee’s characters.
? ??
STUDENTS 
HELPING 
STUDENTS 
Peer Help, BH 150A 
621-9900
AMERICAN FAMILY PLANNING 
SERVICES •
LOCAL ABORTION & 
BIRTH CONTROL FACILITIES
215-449-2006
Where do you get your hair cut in a hydropneumatic factory, 
or in a marbleized temple
i/i this wet ceimeineri
5437 WALNUT IN SHADYSIDE PHONE: 621-7556
(Over Trevi)
The comfortable way to care for your hair 
STUDENT DISCOUNT WITH THIS AD.
W
Welcome* back Students
Have you had your piece 
today?
PHONE: 621-6755
Hours 
Sunday 5-12 
Daily 11-1 
Friday 11-2
WE DELIVER
JAWS
by Randy Hunt
Producers Zanuck and Brown bring us 
a slickly mounted suspenser with JAWS. 
Tension unifies the audience as they await 
the next victim of the insatiable shark. 
Placed on the fictitious island of Amity, 
off Cape Cod, the shark not only destroys 
people but also shreds some of the precious 
summer weeks of the tourist-dependent 
town After several deaths, our heroes 
(Roy Schieder, Robert Shaw, and Richard 
Dreyfuss) start on the terrifyingly climatic 
shark hunt.
This film does have its flaws. The dia­
logue is trite in spots as exemplified by 
this exchange. (Police Chief Brody says to 
his son, “Gimme a kiss.” The child asks 
“Why daddy?” And Brody replies “Be­
cause I need one.”) Many of the characters 
degenerate into cardboard cutouts, par­
ticularly Chief Brody and Captain Quint. 
And the mechanical shark looks like it was 
made by a sixth grade art class. Neverthe­
less, the picture manages to surmount these
-
. //(n't
Mick jags his way through Performance.
errors by skillful handling of other facets 
which help make JAWS exciting entertain­
ment.
The acting is better than adequate, es­
pecially Richard Dreyfuss who breathes life 
into a stale role. Director Spielberg knows 
how to use technique effectively, if not 
artistically. However, the people who de­
serve the most credit are the cameramen 
and film editor. The editing and photo­
graphy are prune examples of just how 
important these often neglected aspects of 
motion pictures are in creating a worth­
while screen feature. This is what keeps 
JAWS dynamic when it could have been a 
corpse. For these reasons, serious cinema 
students should catcl this flick.
? ??

---------------------------------------------------

# * tf *
THE TARTAN-September 23, 1975-Page 13
Kernel
The famous John Sebastian (that little old Lovin' 
Spoonful) will appear this Friday at the Syria 
Mosque, 7:30 pm.
Monty Python gallops into town for a hysterical 
run at the King's Court.
Welcome back my friends, to the shows 
that never end, in and around the labyrin­
thine city of Pittsburgh. Here we are again, 
faced with that dilemma of what to do in 
these great spasms of free time. Well, I’m 
proud to announce that the quantity and 
} quality of social events around school has 
t been increasing proportionately to the 
amount of work students seem to be 
getting as they move into the third week 
of the school year. Just shut the books 
for a second, sit back, and see if any of 
these coming events tickles your fancy in 
any way:
p Heinz Hall is scheduled to host Fred 
Waring, an olden but golden pops player. 
The renowned drummer and percussion­
ist, Poley McClintock, will provide rhythms 
for the show, which will play two per­
formances, October 14 and 15 in Heinz 
Hall. For further information contact 
Gene Palatscky or Leslie Whilinger or just 
\ call 281-8185.
Stan Getz will make his first Pittsburgh 
nightclub appearance, and probably his­
tory at Walt Harper’s Attic (Market 
Square, 261-5083) for five days beginning 
Tuesday, September 23. He has won 
virtually every jazz award, including the 
Playboy Magazine poll for fifteen years and 
the Downbeat poll for seventeen years. If 
you can get into some heavy tenor sax, see 
him-he has been part of the American jazz 
legend since the 1940’s. His saxophone 
sound, his technique, and his choice 
of material have made him, for over a 
quarter of a century, something a little 
bit better than the best. His latest album, 
“Captain Marvel,” is still another tribute 
to the funky sound of jazz. His appearance 
at the Attic will surely be a historic 
moment for Pittsburgh. Don’t miss it!
The McKeesport Little Theatre (corner 
of Coursin and Bailey) will present No. No 
Nanette beginning Sept. 19. Performances 
are scheduled for every Friday, Saturday 
and Sunday through Oct. 12. Shows are at 
7:30 and 8:30 pm, depending on which 
night you attend. For reservations phone 
687-1100.
by Mark Spina
For those extroverts in the CMU com­
munity who would rather give than take, 
the Little Theatre will hold auditions for 
Butterflies Are Free on September 23 
and 24 at 8pm, right in the McKeesport 
Little Theatre. Roles are available for 
“2 young men and 2 young women.” 
The director is P.J. Gallagher and the pro­
ducer is Janet Grebeck. Check it out!
Closer to home— the Pittsburgh Artist 
Inc. (4335 Forbes Ave. in Oakland) would 
like to announce the opening of its’ Fall 
Group Show, on Saturday, Sept. 20. The 
show will feature works by forty local art­
ists and be on display through October 31. 
Paintings, sculpture, photography, prints 
and ceramics will be on display in the gal­
lery, daily, Tuesday, through Saturday,
1 lam until 6pm. Admission is free. Again, 
artistic extroverts- who are interested in 
showing off their works in “well publi­
cized, well managed group shows” in the 
gallery— are urged to call Mel Aberegg at 
681-1828 or to stop by at the gallery for 
more information.
The Museum of Art, Carnegie Institute, 
will feature an exhibition of work by Pitts­
burgh artist Jim Jenkins, from September
19 through October 19. Jenkins uses 
flourescent paints and ultraviolet lights to 
create 3-dimensional “pictures” of fantas­
tic worlds. Its a very relaxing exhibit— 
if you’re in the right state of mind. Open 
every day except Monday. Call 622-3200.
Well that just about wraps it up for this 
week’s information. There are a few other 
incidentals, such as a Chic Corea concert 
on October 7, a moviePutney Swope 
in DH 2210 and various frat rush events 
throughout the week.
Take it easy, and have a good week- 
just look out for the notorious Wild Hogs.
Catch You Later, 
Michael Maunangeli
The evening begins unpromisingly: the 
theater is half-empty, and one has some 
preconceived doubts about a show which 
the leading man both produces and directs. 
The pianist walks down the aisle from the 
back of the theater, applauded by the per­
cussionist, the only other musician. But 
then the overture begins, and the curtain 
goes up on a production full of fun, life 
and sumptuous music. The show is Kismet, 
attractively packaged by Camelot Produc­
tions. The presentation runs Friday, Satur­
day and Sunday evenings September 12 
through October 5, at the Plaza Theater on 
Liberty Ave. The book by Charles Lederer 
and Luther Davis is dated by some of its 
Forties musical comedy conventions, but 
the music by Robert Wright and George 
Forrest, based on the themes of Russian 
composer Alexander Borodin, would be 
beautiful any day. The songs along with 
Comunale’s colorful staging are guaranteed 
to make you overlook alarmingly large 
doses of love at first sight, mistaken iden­
tities, and long-lost sons popping up at 
precisely the right moments.
Kismet takes place in old Baghdad, 
where The Poet (Jerry Comunale, Jr.) 
.scratches out a living for himself and his 
daughter Marsinah (Evey Lehner) by 
selling his verses to passers-by. He occasion­
ally finds himself thrust by fate and 
circumstance into other roles-begger, 
bandit, lover, wizard, noble and match­
maker, to name a few. He accepts each 
situation as a challenge, relishing the ele­
ments of risk and chance they encompass. 
This fluctuating occupational picture 
brings The Poet-and the audience-into 
contact with some delightful characters-- 
a prince (Lee Moorhouse); a corrupt bur­
eaucrat, the Wazir, (G. Fred Thickey) and 
his wife, Lalume (Nan Sumner), along with 
philosophers, informers haiem girls, cut­
throats, and a variety of princessess.
Jerry Comunale. Jr. is billed as actor, 
director, singer, producer, and he seems to 
play all these parts well. He gives a strong 
persuasive performance as The Poet, using 
an excellent singing voice to do justice to 
Borodin’s themes.
Evey Lehner has the ingenue role, as his 
daughter Marsinah. This character is about
as well developed as Cinderella, but Ms. 
Lehner smiles a great deak, dances beauti­
fully and is a sensational soprano. Her sing­
ing and dancing make “Bauble, Bangles, 
and Beads” one of the show’s best num­
bers. She does it so well, in fact, that when 
the Caliph, Baghdad’s ruling Prince 
Charming sees her, he falls instantly in 
love, banishes all his concubines, and 
spends the rest of the show winning her, 
losing her, winning her, and so on. Lee 
Moorhous plays this love-sick prince with a 
peculiar, distant look in his eyes that seems 
to be the result of something between love 
and severe shock. He is a magnificent sing­
er however, and his voice makes Kismet's 
most popular number, ‘Stranger in 
Paradise,” the show’s most moving mo­
ment.
G. Fred Thickey gives a good comic per­
formance as the crooked Wazir, and his 
song-and-dance, “Was I Wazir?”, in which 
he happily revels in his own inhumanity, is 
unbelievably funny. Lalume, his c .ief wife, 
played by Nan Sumner, is that bitchey, 
wise-cracking female that every musical 
comedy has lying about somewhere. Ms. 
Sumner does much more than lie about 
however, as she demonstrates by her sing­
ing and dancing in “Not Since Ninevah.”
Some of the minor roles could be play­
ed with more imagination, although special 
praise must be given to Dann Howard’s 
characterization of the aged Poet Laureate, 
the Caliph’s advisor. The rest of the sup­
porting characters seem to forget that they 
are doing musical comedy instead of 
Hamlef, a touch of exageration might 
enliven these roles. As it stands, they do 
not detract from the play, but they don’t 
really add to it, either.
Strong support for the entire produc 
tion is provided by the chorus, which 
dances ably and delivers a superb vocal 
performance.
The choreography here complements 
the music, and those with a weakness for 
big production numbers will appreciate the 
combined contributions from each of these 
areas.
At prices competitive with first-run 
films, Kismet provides an enjoyable even­
ing for lovers of musical comedy, and some 
pleasant suprises for those unfamiliar with 
the form. And of course, the live theatrical
experience is always priceless.

---------------------------------------------------

Page 14-THE TARTAN-September 23, 1975/
IAN: READING BETWEEN THE LINES
I was chatting with Mark Chimsky (this 
publication’s Entertainment Editor) about 
the great publicity that certain recording 
artists were receiving of late. Mark was 
particularly puzzled about the overnight 
success of singer/poetess Janis Ian. While 
asking me if Janis Ian’s newest album was 
worth reviewing, an interesting question 
came up. What are the difficulties of fairly 
reviewing a record that has already won 
stupendous commercial acclaim? The task 
would be equal to criticizing Sticky Fingers 
or Abbey Road. How does one submit an 
honest review.
These questions were quite valid and I 
decided to review the new Janis Ian album 
in such a way as to separate fact from fan­
tasy. It was a problem I found far from 
simple.
Before sitting down with Ms. Ian’s mu­
sic, I though I’d review what I had already 
known about the songstress. I recollected 
that Janis Ian had started out as a teenage 
star. In the mid-sixties Janis hit the charts 
with the image-provoking “Society’s
Child”. The gist of the hit single was con­
cerned with the problems of a young 
couple separated by the recurring theme of 
delicate race relations. Though “Society’s 
Child” and a few other hits launched Janis 
Ian to the top of AM radio, it probably did 
the young singer more harm than good. If 
someone like Paul McCartney has trouble 
writing a follow-up to Band on the Run,
can you imagine the difficulty that the pu­
berty-plagued, pimple-faced Janis Ian must 
have had? Just thinking of that kind of 
pressure scares me.
Even if the young writer’s following 
works were just as creative, it’s a safe bet 
that her provacative theme scared local
radio stations and national critics into.prac­
tically banning her work. So Janis Ian dis­
appeared into a relative obscurity.
All of a sudden, time reshuffled her 
cards and it’s now the summer of ‘75. Ra­
dio stations are playing this laid-back cut 
on local radio, every five minutes or so. It’s 
a touching tune but somehow the damn 
singer’s name keeps ringing a familiar bell. 
“At Seventeen” is the single: Janis Ian is 
back.
Well to be honest, I had the album be­
fore the single broke, but if I had bothered 
to play it more than twice, I’d be lying. 
Pretty soon, a few other singles were 
squeaking through the airwaves. The late 
summer had given birth to Janis Ian’s Be­
tween the Lines.
Trying to approach the matter from a 
neutral stand point, I just let the entire al­
bum play as many times as possible, while I 
painted or popped my tin-top lids. It wasn’t 
long after this that I forgot all the prep 
talks that my friends had given me. There
DANCE FOR ALL SEASONS
by James O. Fletcher
Providing a striking contrast to the rath­
er lean diet of dance offered in Pittsburgh 
during the summer months, dance of quan- 
ity— and quality— will be plentiful begin­
ning early next month.
The 1975-76 season of the Pittsburgh 
Ballet Theatre opens October 4 and 5 
in Heinz Hall with the introduction of 
three ballets to the PBT repertoire. First 
on the program is the once “shocking” 
ballet of Ruth Page and Bentley Stone, 
“Frankie and Johnny,” first produced in 
1938, precipitated a raging controversy 
and was even banned in Boston.
Next is a world premier, “Steel Sym­
phony” to be choreographed by Artistic 
Director Nicolas Petrov as a tribute to 
Pittsburgh’s steel industry. It depicts the 
actual steel-making process. This work 
represents the first time that Pittsburgh 
based artists have cooperated on such a 
project. Mr. Petrov’s choreography is 
complemented by the music of Carnegie- 
Mellon University resident composer 
Leonardo Balada. The set, (a massive 
steel sculpture), and costumes were com­
missioned to be designed by Pittsburger 
Irene Pasinski. The' work, sponsored by 
the National Steel Corporation, combines 
dance, sound and film in a multi-media 
effort centered on steel.
“Winterset,” also a world premiere, 
choreographed by Stuart Sebastian, is 
based on the play by Maxwell Anderson. A 
young choreographer, Mr. Sebastian has 
danced for the National Ballet and done a 
number of works for other companies. 
Music for “Winterset” is a guitar work by 
Hector Villa Lobos, sets are by CMU’s 
Orrin Parkci, and costumes by company 
designer Stephen Petipas.
\
Also on the Heinz Hall calendar are 
“La Sylphide” Oct. 31., Nov. 1,2; “Nut- 
cracker” with eight performances the 
Christmas holiday; “Petrouchka”, “Swan 
Lake. Act II”, “Danse Brillante” January 
23,24,25; and tour pertormances or 
“Coppelia” on February 26 thru the 29.
To fill the hiatus between each produc­
tion of the Pittsburgh Ballet Theatre, the 
Pittsburgh Dance Council had imported 
some of the finest representatives of mod­
ern dance and ballet in the country. On 
November 26 The George Faison Universal 
Dance Experience will make a return visit 
to Pittsburgh. Since capturing a Tony for 
his choreography in the musical “The
was no way I was going to pan this album, 
no way.
Surprisingly, the more I listened, the 
better the words soaked through. Believe 
me folks, this lady is a highly sensitive hu­
man being. Her vocal work is very delicate, 
her musical soliloquies are practically tear- , 
jerking. The title song portrays a lonely 
voice, speaking to an audience of millions 
of deaf ears.
“There’s never much to talk about, 
or read between the lines of what we 
dream about when we’re apart 
and no one’s looking on to say 
“You’re mine”.*
One gets a feeling that this singer has ' 
been hurt quite badly. There is no com­
fortable position for the listener’s ear. If 
there are no sad feelings provoked by Be­
tween the Lines, sensitivity is probably just 
another word in your vocabulary.
I should add that Janis Ian is also a 
very gifted writer of music. Her songs 
could possibly stand on the melody alone. * 
Janis surprises a few with her adept ar- * 
rangements. Many of the clever orchestral 
solos were conceived by Ms. Ian and her 
knockdown bassist, Richard Davis. Fine 
guitar and piano work seem to reinforce all 
my arguements for this touching piece of 
music.
Janis Ian is not without fault, though. 
Many of the cuts sound like many other * 
songs that you may have heard. A good ex­
ample of this is “From Me To You”. This 
song is so reminiscent of the old Blind 
Faith number, “Can’t Find My Way 
Home”, that it borders on robbery. It 
should also be noted that if you happen to 
find yourself in a boogie mood, there are 
plenty of good albums to rock to, but not 
Between the Lines. 1
Irji the past, commercial radio has* 
backed some real dogs, but I believe that 
the few singles off of Between the Lines, 
are just the tip of a tightly woven iceberg. 
This is no Carly Simon kibosssh or even an 
Elton John joke, but a fine musical device 
for displaying brilliant down-to-earth ly­
rics. Good work critics, dj’s, and fans.
Convinced Quiff ,,
Also thanks to WRCT’s Phil, Magic * 
Marge, Mark C., and especially Steve 
and Mellow Jo for their persistence.. .
Wiz”, Mr. Faison is rapidly becoming one 
of America’s most demanded choreo­
graphers. His eleven member company 
sold out the Playhouse easily last sprin/ 
and will surely do the same at Heinz Hall'
The Eliot Feld Ballet, noted for its 
neo-classical style will appear on January 
14th. The small company’s forte is precis­
ion and the keen ability to make dance a 
very intimate experience.
“Clearly one of the major dance com­
panies of the world,” reports Clive Barnes 
of the Paul Taylor Dance Company, whicK 
will visit Pittsburgh as it tours even“* 
major city in America on February 18th.
Totally dernier cri, Philobolus repre­
sents a bold new concept of self-propelled 
dance theatre. Combing dance, acrobatics, 
sculpture and humor this company prom­
ises to produce an effect on the Pittsburgh 
audience never before experienced. They 
arrive sometime before March 17. /
And literally the dessert of the PDC> 
season is the Pennsylvania Ballet at Heinz 
Hall on April 13th. A nearly perfect com­
pany, their technique never ceases to 
amaze audiences wherever they perform.
Due to the combined efforts of the 
Pittsburgh Ballet Theatre and The Pitts­
burgh Dance Council any afficianados 
of dance, will no doubt find something to 
excite the palate during this diversified, 
new season of dance.

---------------------------------------------------

THE TARTAN—September 23, 1975—Page 15
HEARING IS NOT BEING THERE
by Carol Green
A Chorus Line, the sensation on Broad­
way this season seems to be centered on 
Michael Bennet’s excellant choreoghraphy 
and direction but not, unfortunately, on 
Marvin (The Way We Were) Hamlisch‘s 
¡nusic and Edward Kleban’s lyrics. Not that 
lr. Hamlisch’s music is bad. However,
Chorus Line is a visual show, resulting in 
many long musical interludes. The accent is 
on dance, not song. If you like deep lyrics 
and full vocal and orchestral arrangements, 
perhaps it is best to leave the original cast 
recording of A Chorus Line alone.
The album does have its merits. The 
highest point is a solo, “Nothing,” done by 
^Priscilla Lopez. Other songs range from the 
funny “Dance: Ten, Looks: Three” to a 
%catchy “One”, the show’s long finale num­
ber.
The supporters of A Chorus Line say 
that its music was purposely written so as 
not to be showbizzy. In doing so, I think 
the authors greatly hindered themselves, 
allowing some numbers to be rather dull 
and flat, just to keep the mood of the show 
“natural.” Well written musicals can have 
many show-stopping, thrilling and even 
splashy numbers without seeming commer­
cial, worn-out, or false. One good example 
I can cite is Man of La Mancha. Its cast 
album can be enjoyed without seeing the 
show; it stands by itself without depending 
on visual knowledge of the show. To 
totally appreciate A Chorus Line, it has to 
be seen first. This is rather an inconvienent 
requirement which interferes with our 
ability to enjoy any original Broadway cast 
album.
It’s easy. And, in each case, 
a special operator will help to speed your call on its way.
WITHIN the 412 area : OUTSIDE the 412 area :
Dial “O” + the number. Dial “O” + the area code + the number.
Also, remember that dial-direct rates apply on all calls within 
the continental U.S. (except Alaska I completed without operator 
^ assistance. They also apply on calls placed with an operator
p. where direct dialing facilities are not available. They do not
apply to person-to-person, coin, hotel guest, credit card, collect 
calls or calls charged to another number because an operator 
must assist on such calls.
(2) Bell of Pennsylvania

---------------------------------------------------

Page 16-THE TARTAN-September 23, 1975
ON PPT'S 'GLASS MANAGERIE'
by John Mangano
Last Wednesday was officially pro­
claimed Pittsburgh Public Theatre Day by 
Mayor Pete Flaherty, to celebrate the 
opening of the country’s newest regional 
theatre. With this tribute, as well as the 
backing of the city’s countless corporations 
and foundations, individual sponsors and 
in-kind contributes, only a theatrical 
miracle could live up to the expectations 
surrounding the PPT's inaugural offering.
“The Glass Menagerie” is a bit of a 
theatrical miracle in itself, being one of the 
most intimate, overstudied and interna­
tionally lauded plays of our time. With 
“Menagerie” a highly autobiographical 
“memory play”, perhaps director Ben 
Shaktman was hoping that the audience 
would rely on happy memories of more
Ben Shaktman
poignant and deeply felt productions of 
the work to carry this specific interpre­
tation through its many rough spots. In­
deed, the program includes many notes on 
“Menagerie”, including blurbs from open­
ing night (1945) reviews and critical essays 
written long before this thirtieth anniver­
sary production. But as any fickle theatre­
goer can tell you, past success does little to 
insure future audiences.
Shaktman has played it safe in choos­
ing Tennessee William’s first popular suc­
cess as his season opener. If this is any in­
dication of what is to come, the drama- 
hungry populace of the area can look for­
ward to a professional theatre dealing in 
standard successes and offering little inno­
vation. In fact, Shaktman has spread him­
self thin by hanging a few scattered inno­
vations on what is for our time a very un­
innova tive play. He has wrapped his bun­
dle inside an environmental theatre space 
which, although intriguing, would be better 
suited to a more experimental work.
The drama is played in the round, with 
two-story tiers framing the playing area, 
affording the patrons in cheaper seats a 
great view of throw rugs, table tops and 
actors’ heads. The arrangement has necessi­
tated an absence of subtlety in perfor­
mance, and the players must constantly 
whirl about the long rectangular stage 
shouting the most delicate of speeches, and 
bobbing their heads in order to make con­
tact with spectators in the stratosphere. 
Augmented by four large screens that flash 
exaggerated photographs and trashy dance 
hall projections, “Menagerie” becomes a 
circus, and its characters two-dimensional 
clowns.
The ringmaster of all this is Tom, por­
trayed by David Snell, a very slick actor 
who is perfect as narrator. But try to pin 
some flesh and blood onto his relationship 
to the others, and all is lost. Snell’s inter­
pretation is so thin, we have no bridge into 
the world of the play. Is Tom amused or
aggravated by ins mother^ Is he truly con­
cerned for liis sister, Laura? We are given 
no clue, no cue to what we, as voyeurs in­
to his life should feel. We are left to fend 
for ourselves, and many leave the theatre 
thinking they have seen a melodramatic 
tragedy, others a light domestic comedy in 
the tradition of “I'Remember Mama”. 
Snell’s anger is inexplicable. Tom seems 
amused by his mother’s constant badger­
ing, lecturing and prying. Yet suddenly his 
smile is gone and anger has taken its place, 
as if on cue by the stage manager. As he 
addresses interminable speeches to the aud­
ience, his all too perfect elocution takes on 
the quality of TV commercial voice-overs. 
His final guilt-ridden confession of how his 
sister’s cries haunt him are delivered so apa­
thetically, we are led to believe that he 
cares not a bit for his sister, or for what has 
transpired on the stage. So why should We?
Carol Teitel’s portrayal of his mother 
as a light-headed dreamer lacking in 
strength and intelligence somehow reduced 
the scope of the role and made Amanda a 
minor character. Because there was no sub­
text evident in her playing, no varying de­
grees of intensity, her words invariably 
faded into the background of the play. It 
was only in the first scene of Act Two that 
we were given a clue as to how Ms. Teitel 
could have breathed life into the faded 
southern belle. Amanda takes stage draped 
in a wonderfully seedy gown, a tattered 
remnant of her past; and somehow Ms. 
Teitel makes of this foolish old woman a 
lady of elegance, as delicate and fragile as 
the lace on her gown. We are suddenly 
swept away; we believe in those seventeen 
gentlemen callers picking jonquils by the 
roadside on summer afternoons. And we 
do not reutrn to the harsh world of Aman­
da’s present situation until Ms. Teitel 
allows us to. The audience beamed with en­
chantment, and at once I realized what 
Shaktman had meant by “that secret be­
tween vou and the performance. When. . . 
you become part of the exclamation that 
is theatre.” We could have used more these 
moments, but they were conspicuously ab­
sent.
The one performance that exceeded all 
expectation was Amy Wright’s interpreta­
tion of Laura. Unfortunately, the weakness 
of both Tom and Amanda threw a diffi­
cult weight on her shoulders. She was for­
ced to provide us with an accessible char­
acter, whom we could both sympathize 
with and adore. The part is not written 
with such a heavy-duty prupose in mind, 
but nevertheless Ms. Wright struggled vali­
antly in the face of indifference. Her ra­
diant features, her soft, teary eyes, the 
tightly braided bun on top of her head 
were all utilized in the creation of a sub­
tle, deeply felt characterization.
The Gentleman Caller, that “long 
delayed. . . something that we all live 
for” was hardly worth the wait. As por­
trayed by Steve Simpson, he is the worst 
kind of cartoon cut-out, a tedious blow- 
hard bouncing about the stage in a rough 
impersonation of Robert Preston singing 
“Trouble in River City”. Somewhere be­
neath the layers of bombastic, overbearing 
guff was the key to the character. The 
Caller is meant to show the callous heel 
one needs to be in order to survive, but this 
man is a simple-minded clown, an object of 
ridicule, not an ambitious young man on 
his way up.
Shaktman floods his production with 
music, said to be the original score from 
1945. Unfortunately, what was effective 
thirty years ago is now quite alien to thea­
tregoers. This variety music is so associated 
with soap operas and melodramas that we 
do not know how to take it: as an affec­
tionate comment on old fashioned values, 
or as with the frequent projections of her
runaway husband and the Gentleman 
Caller, it does nothing but confuse the 
issue. These effects flash in and out, as if 
the audience should, at the flick of a 
switch, suddenly feel the emotion the pro­
duction is striving to elicit at that moment. 
We cannot be so easily manipulated.
A general mood is captured in*the arti­
cles and most especially the advertisements 
in the PPT Program. As J & L Steel writes 
“Pittsburgh! A vital, dynamic city that’s on 
the move. But improvement and vitality 
require people who are energetic, dedicated 
and excited about where they live.” Ben 
Shaktman and his co-workers are obviously
dedicated to the city, and the potential for 
exciting theatre lies in that fact. Their var­
ious programs involving all varieties of 
Pittsburghers prove that they see more in 
the magic of theatre than personal gain. 
Perhaps in “The Glass Menagerie” they 
were extending themselves a bit further 
than a fledgling theatre should, by taking 
a successful, conventional play that would 
draw a conventional audience, and trans­
planting it into an experimental playing 
space that would attract a more daring 
group of spectators. There is great promise 
here, and a disappointing start should be 
no deterrent to their drive for future 
success.
Carol Teitel

---------------------------------------------------

THE TARTAN-September 23, 1975-Page 17
sports
*
*
THIEL TOMCATS 
MAUL TARTANS
By Gerry Fraley
One of the best known thoroughbreds 
of all time was one Silky Sullivan. 
Sullivan was infamous for his cyclonic 
charges in the stretch' which brought him 
from way back in the pack to win. The 
Carnegie—Mellon Tartans made like 
Sullivan Saturday but the stretch was a 
little too short as they dropped a 20-14 
decision to the Thiel Tomcats in a 
Presidents Athletic t onrerence game at 
Greenville, Pa.
Tlwel led 20-0 with just over a minute 
remaining in the third quarter before the 
Tartans came on, only to fall just short of 
victory.
“It was admirable the way they came 
back and didn’t quit,” said Tartan head 
coach Joe Gasparella.
The Tartans could have easily quit 
following a first half dominated by the 
brawny Tomcats. Thiel’s 6’,220 pound 
tailback Nick Farina was a Gulliver in 
the Lilliputian Tartan secondary picking up 
67 yards on 18 carries. Farina’s ground 
smashes set up the passing game of George 
Joseph, who hit flanker Lee Richards with 
a 31 yard pass that moved Thiel to the 
Tech one. Dan Piekup slammed in for the 
score on the next play and Jim Shaffer 
added the conversion to give Thiel a 7-0 
lead with 5:22 remaining in the first 
quarter.
An experiment by Gasparella resulted in 
the second Thiel score. Gasparella inserted 
freshman quarterback Pete Antamarino 
into the game midway through the second 
quarter in place of starter Jay Duquette. 
Antamarino fumbled on his first play from 
scrimmage and Thiel recovered on the 
Tartan 31. Joseph hit split end Art Amos 
for a 23 yard gain to the Tartan 12. 
The bull Farina took over from there as he 
carried four successive times before 
crashing in from the one, with 8:47 
remaining in the half. Thiel missed the 
conversion to keep" their lead to 13-0 as the 
half ended.
Thiel padded their lead to 20-0 with 
a score late in the third quarter. The 
Tomcats moved 48 yards in 11 plays for 
the score. The passing combination of 
Joseph to Amos again produced the big 
play as they combined for a 17 yard gain 
to move to the Tartan one. Ed Mihilek 
scored on a dive play and Shaffer added 
the conversion. For the first time in the 
game however Farina was not a factor. 
He attempted to run up the middle where 
people were more his size and the down 
linemen of Ray Muncini, Calvin Scott, and 
Robert Hantz were up to the task, limiting 
him to 14 yards on 12 second half carries.
CMU Thiel
First Downs14 19
Rushing38-88 49-130
Passing yards221 189
Passes13-26 13-21
Passes Intercepted By2 0
Punts6-28.8 5-37.2
FumblesLost2 1
Yards Penali/.ed3-35 5-25
ThielPrekup 1 run(Schaffer kick)
Thiel -Farina 1 run (Kick failed)
Thiel -Mihilak 1 run (Schaffer kick)
CMU -Schademan 10 pass from
Antamarino (Kick failed)
CMU -Gatehouse 3pass from
Duquette (Counihan )
Antamarino brought the Tartans 
right back with a three play,72 yard drive 
for Tartan’s first score. Antamarino first 
hit running back Tony Diogia with a six 
yard pass, followed that with a 56 yarder 
to freshman Bob Gatehouse, and culmin­
ated the drive with a 10 yard scoring 
toss to tight end Rick Schademann with 
0:29 remaining in the third quarter. The 
conversion was missed.
Gasparella alternated Antamarino and 
Duquette at quarterback for the fourth 
quarter but neither were able to come up 
with a score until Duquette connected with 
Gatehouse on a spectacular 31 yard scoring 
pass. Pat Counihan was successful on the 
two point conversion to cut Thiel’s lead to 
20-13 with 1:55 remaining, Theil killed 
any chance of a Tartan victory by 
recovering an on-sides kick. Cornerback 
Mark Koshute narrowly missed an inter­
ception two plays later in a last gasp effort.
Coach Meckley and his five winning runners
NEWS AND NOTES:
CMU Soccer player outmaneuvered by Case'
SOCCER 
TEAM 
LOSES 2-0
by Mark Canepa
Last Friday the Tartan Soccer team 
opened the 1975 season with a tough 
match against Case-Western Reserve. The 
game opened with Case on the offensive 
from the very beginning and after only 
seven minutes, they scored from 15 feet in 
front of Tim Bosch, who played his first 
game as goalie for the Tartans. After the 
goal the Tartans took the offensive for the 
rest of the first half but could not capital­
ize on the many mistakes made by the Case 
defense.
Returning from the halftime break the 
Tartans kept up the offensive and twice 
during the early part of the second half, 
the forward line came close to scoring.
With 35 minutes left in the game. Case 
took control of the game and kept control 
until the final whistle. With two minutes 
left in the game, they scored their second 
goal on a high shot that went right by the 
goalie. Friday’s game showed that the 
Tartans have very good individual talent 
and good depth, but are still seriously lark­
ing team co-ordination in the forward line.
On the 24th, the Tartans will face Point 
Park on Tech field. This game does not 
count towards the PAC title. This game 
should prove whether the Tartans are ready 
to take on Pitt the following Tuesday, 
Sept. 30, and to achieve good standing 
with the PAC this year.
GOLF- The final day for entering your golf 
team is Wednesday, September 24. Steven 
Belanich is the commissioner and could 
use a few more teams in his league. 
FOOTBALL- The commissioners for this 
season are Dennis O’Connel and Jeff 
Grube. In the event of rain on the day of a 
scheduled football game, both teams must 
report to the field to decide upon playing 
TENNIS- The tennis commissioner this 
season is Ross Winer. He can be contacted 
at Ext.8844 or 683-5693. if you have ques­
tions or problems. There are 22 teams in 
3 leagues this year.
CO-REC VOLLEYBALL- Entry rosters are 
due in the I.M. Office, 104 Gym, Tuesday, 
September 30. It is also necessary for each 
team to sign up in the I.M. Office for prac­
tice time in the gym. Teams are limited to 
8 men and 8 women.
CROSS COUNTRY- Entry rosters are due 
in the I.M. Office September 30. This is 
an open sport, you do not need to be on 
a team to compete. The commissioner is 
Jim Moon.
WATER POLO- Entry rosters are due in 
the I.M. Office September 30. There is a 
minimum limit of 5 and a maximum of 
8 members required for a team. 
CHESS- Entry rosters are due-in the I.M. 
Office September 30. Teams are limited 
to a minimum of 4 and a maximum of
8 members.
IM ACTIVITIES BOARD- There will be 
two important board meetings this month. 
September 23 and 30 are the dates. All 
members are urged to attend.Rifle Team 
Shooting
by Mark Smith
The rifle team finished last year’s season 
with a mediocre 4-11 record. Several high 
points of the season were a fifth place 
among twelve teams in the sectional, and 
a high match score of 1186.
The two high shooters from the sec­
tional tournament, Steve Strom and Mark 
Smith, are both shooting again this year. 
Six other shooters from last year's squad
* ' e |1 11 H U1
Although live people are practicing tor 
tryouts to be held i oughout Ouobei, 
then is still room I i* \nyone in­
terested should contact M*t Vlderly in the 
ROTC department m M t Morrison, 
or come to range durint -i pi.v'ue session. 
The range is in the third basci '.-r.i ol Mar­
garet Morrison. Practices aic _.S_h Tuesday 
and Thursday 30-4:30 and Wednesday
and Friday 3:30-6:30.
RUNNERS 
WIN MEET
by Stacey Kimbell
Victorious is an understatement to 
describe the phenomenal success the Cross- 
Country team had on Saturday at the meet 
against the Jeanette Harriers. The Harriers 
a tough team to beat, succumbed to CMU 
27-32 on a damp and drizzly day. The turf 
put both teams at a minor disadvantage but 
this was not enough to keep the CMU team 
from winning.
The 14 man team began the run to­
gether with the first five men, the scorers, 
finishing within 26 seconds of one another. 
Dave Barby made the 4.3 mile course in 
24:11, Larry Gordon, 24:14, Mark Howard 
24:16, John Lewandowski, 24:27 and Jack 
Daly, 24:37. The sixth and seventh runners 
finished close enough to the five forerun­
ners to displace the Harriers men thereby 
claiming the win for CMU.
If this meet is any indication of the 
future. Coach Meckley and his men may 
well be on their way to a winning season. 
The next meet is Wednesday afternoon at 
3:30 at the foot of Schenley Park Hill 
against Westminister.
12 Year 
Goof
by Charles Mitch
Going unnoticed for over 12 years, the 
center circle of the basketball court has 
been discovered to be four feet off center 
towards one side. Workman laying the new 
floor realized the circle was not in its 
proper location.
Former Athletic Director Raymond 
Haynes said that it must have happened 
when the new backboards were installed. 
Since the court wasn’t replaced in the past, 
the lines were continually repainted incor­
rectly.
INDIVIDUAL LEADERS
Rushing: Thiel Farina 30-81, Prekup 
Carnegie—West 5-29. Antamarino 
Counihan 4-17.
I jssing: 1 hie!-Joseph lJ-21-fXV.
Carnegie-Duquette 10-18-149, 
Antamarino 3-8-72.
Receiving: Thiel Richards 4 76, Ann
2-40. McCarthy 3-47.
Carnegie—Gatehouse 4-117, Digioia 
I VW. Sihademan 2 2°. O’Mm 2 1

---------------------------------------------------

Page 18-THE TARTAN-September 23, 1975
Intramural Football Propeds For 19/5
by Roger Geddes
Last Monday marked the beginning of 
the five week intramural football season 
with thirty-two teams participating. In the 
major leagues, four of the eight teams will 
win playoff spots. The outlook is as 
follows:Pika-Winners of five out of. the last 
six championships, Pika will again 
have top defense in the league this 
year. Returning are four veterans 
with such standouts as Vranderic and 
Cullen. This year’s offense will be 
lacking the great combination of 
Rouch to Taylor. Quarterback, Jay 
Harper, will put a lot of points on 
the board. The rest of the offense is 
lacking experience.
Beta-Losers of two straight cham­
pionship games, Beta has added four 
ex-varsity players to provide some 
muscle and speed. End Bruce Beckar 
should break open some games with 
his lightning speed. The major ques­
tion on offense is the inexperience of 
the quarterback, John Fischer. Fis­
cher will have the protection of two 
big blocking backs. All but one 
player is returning to the defense. 
Coaches All Stars-A graduate team 
that should have an explosive offense 
with Schiffman at quarterback and 
tw.o good ends, Hill and Koblin. 
Schiffman likes to run and is very 
good at it. The defense is good with 
Tauche and Cnnners as strong 
rushers.
Oakland Dolphins-A team that lost 
only one regular season game last 
season, Oakland has lost the in­
famous Willie Frantz. Without him 
they have only a small chance for a 
championship season. Their offense 
still has some returning players. The 
defense has many holes but a strong 
rush in Rupnick and Rossi.
Phi Kappa Theta-Liska at quarter­
back is probably one of the best in 
the league but his teamates are lac­
king his talent. He has a pair of quick 
ends, Baran and Herbert, but the 
blocking backs are rather small. Four 
of the six offensive players are also 
on defense and play well. However 
that many players going both ways 
will take its toll in the fourth quar­
ter.
Major League
Pika “A”Dophins
BTP “A”SAE
All StarsSpirit
ATOPKT “A”
Intermediate League
KSClams
GSIAOilers
StinkRed Death
Pika “B”McGilldoes
DTDSN
TXZBT
Minor League
SlugsDungeons
GorillasRangers
LobstersDU
TurkeysPKT “B”
SabresPLP
OgresBeta “C”
SWIMMING POOL HOURS
11:30 to 1:20 p.m. 
6:30 to 8:30 p.m.
Monday - Friday 
Monday - Friday
ATO-After having an undefeated sea­
son and averaging over forty points 
a game, ATO has returned to the 
majors after two years of interme­
diate play. This year the arm of 
O’Mara will be missing because he 
has joined the varsity. Ex-varsity 
player Tom Shaw will quarterback 
the squad. The team also has four 
other players from varsity.
SAE-A major part of the defense is 
returning with Sekerak and Rohr at 
the back and Rish and Messersmith 
returning to the rushing spots. 
Messersmith, a defensive standout, is 
probably the strongest rusher in the 
league. The offense only has two re­
turning players, Wallace and Pochan. 
Spirit-An offspring of the Black Ma­
gics of last year, Spirit will probably 
have as much trouble in the league as 
the Magics. They are a fast team all 
around with two quick receivers, 
Moore and Clark. The blocking is 
poor and the quarterback has no 
time to throw. The defense is full of 
holes.
Pika and Beta should coast into the 
playoffs. A1 Stars won’t have much trouble 
in placing. The fourth place will go with 
Phi Kap or the Dolphins who are pretty 
evenly matched. ATO, SAE, and Spirit will 
have an uphill battle all season. When all 
the dust has cleared, look for Beta-Pika in 
the finals for the second straight year. Here 
are some early odds for the championship.
Pika
Beta
Coaches
Phi Kap
Oakland
ATO
SAt
Spirit
2-1 
5-2 
4-1 
8-1 
8-1 
20- 1 
40-1 
80-1
WOMEN’S FIELD HOCKEY
Oct. 14 W&J (Away) 4 pm
Sept. 28 Bethany (Away) 11 am
Oct. 2 Chatham (Home) 4:30 pm
Oct. 5 Indiana Univ. (Away) 1:30 pm 
Oct. 10 W&J (Home) 4 pm
The home games will be played at 
Chatham‘s field.
NOTE - Weekend hours will be announ­
ced in a few weeks.
The pool and gym facilities are closed 
during home football games.
TENNIS Ms 
FOR FACULTY
by Jim Balik
A new dimension is being added to 
this year’s Intramural Sports and is aptly 
called “Faculty Intramurals”.
This is the first time in CMU history 
that the athletic department has adopted 
an I.M. sports program which will be for 
the faculty and staff of the university.
The faculty and staff tennis league has 
already begun and every afternoon from 
noon to 1:30 there will be matches played. 
The courts will be reserved from 12:15 to 
1:30 for the faculty and staff. Any faculty 
and staff not involved in the program can 
also use the courts at that time.
There are plans for a basketball, 
volleyball, handball, and other activities.
As Mr. Maloney, head basketball coach 
and the coordinator for the program states:
“It give« *he faculty and staff an op- 
port nity to . now one another better, to 
become better physically, and a chance to 
compete in the various sports.”
Any faculty or staff member who 
would like to enter the tennis league or 
have questions concerning the program 
should contact Dave Maloney in room 104 
Gym, and he will be happy to assist you ii. 
any way possible.
Tennis IM Scores
Tennis has begun its season and every­
thing is going smoothly. Results of matches 
are listed below.
Women's tennis team practicingWomen's Tennis
by Elly Zimmerman
The women’s varsity Tennis team will 
have their first home match Wednesday, 
September 24 at 4:30 against Indiana. With 
the team practicing three times a week and 
with the return of the top four singles 
players from last year, the season outlook 
is good. Peggy Russell, the team’s coach, is 
confident that this year’s record will be 
good.
Indiana beat CMU twice last year. The 
second meet was very close with the match 
score of 4-5. With the loss of two of their 
best singles players, Indiana will have quite 
a struggle on their hands.
Returning CMU players include Elly 
Zimmerman, Ellen Bernstein, Robin Klar, 
Ann Kramer, Nancy Bink, Judy Parker, 
Lisa Katz, Crystal Hoffman, Suzy Duffy 
and Nancy Lyons.
Ashe League 
Psychology 
GSIA graduates 
SUPA 
Jive Turkey 
GSIA Optimals 
Kappa Sigma
Borg League 
Hammerschlag 
Phi Kappa 
Theta “A” 
Aliens 
GSIA Aces
Conners League
SAE
Clams
Freedman
Arpa Nets
R. Fault
PKA
Wins
1
2
1
1
0
0
Losses
0
0
1
1
2
1
IM Football 
Begins
by Jim Balik
I.M. football is underway with a total of 
32 teams scheduled to play until mid-Oc­
tober. Four games were played this past 
week in the Major League;
Pi Kappa Alpha 33 Spirit 1 
Beta Theta Pi 20 Phi Kappa Theta 11 
All Stars 19 Alpha Tau Omega 7 
Dolphins 15 Sigma Alpha Epsilon 3 
It seems as though Phi Kappa Alpha, with 
their tremendous show of strength, is again 
going to be the team to beat in the majors. 
They are the defending champs of their 
league and its going to take some kind of 
effort to “dethrone” them.
Watch for your favorite professor .. 
Remember the weekly dining spot..
KEEP
Every Thursday
OPEN FOR THE
Afternoon Luncheon 
Forums
EVERY WEEK 12:30 SKIBO WHERRETT
ROOM
PAID VOLUNTEERS NEEDED... 
(Year Round)
Healthy, MALE volunteers, age 21-30, 150-200 pounds, needed for Drug Testing 
Program on absorption rates of prescription medications. All Studies are conducted un­
der strict medical supervision.
— Program involves blood samples drawn by skilled venipuncture technicians before 
and after medication is ingested.
— Physical Exams will be given each Thursday between 9:00 a.m. and 11:00 a.m. in 
Room 335, Hotel Webster Hall.
NEW volunteers will be given a free physical exam, including complete blood 
chemistries. Pay scale ranges from $50.00-$500.00 depending upon time requirements 
of the study.
For Complete Details, Please Call
BIODECISION LABORATORIES, Inc.
Room 335, Webster Hall, 441 5 Fifth Avenue 
682-2022
Or Come Directly to the Physical Exam 
(PLEASE BRING PROOF OF AGE)

---------------------------------------------------

THE TARTAN-September 23, 1975-Page 19
Varsity In IM’s
by Elly Zimmerman ticin8 or PlaYing on a varsity team after
its schedule commences.” This definition
A year ago a controversy developed uPh°lds the past ruling. This year however 
®concerning the legality of varsity athletes men s vars*ty tennis team is practicing 
«•on intramural teams. In particular, a worn- *n ^ie earlier than in the past
an varsity volleyball player was allowed to years- Logically one would conclude that 
play IM six-man volleyball for the entire that men’s varsity tennis Players should 
season. The matter was not brought to the N0T be aUowed to P,ay intramurals in the 
attention of the IM Board until the team fall^while at the same time practicing the
she was on made it to the quarterfinals. 
After her participation in IM’s was ques­
tioned, the IM Board in one of their bi- 
X monthly meetings, ruled on the case. They 
^ decided to vote down a resolution that 
would have allowed women varsity athletes 
to compete for the rest of the 1975 school 
year in the same sport in intramurals.
The case in point>however, is not to 
determine the righteousness of this deci­
sion but to take a hard look at the discrep­
ancies in the Intramural Activities Board 
rulings over the years.
One ruling in the past was that varsity 
swimmers are allowed to compete in IM 
water polo. Only one varsity player is al­
lowed on each team. To justify the ruling 
the IM Board explains that water polo is a 
minor sport. The participation figures for 
the sport were declining. In order to 
compensate for this they passed the rule 
which allowed varsity players to compete, 
in the hopes they would stimulate com­
petition. The intentions were honorable 
but this action marks the beginning of 
illogical rulings by the Board.
This year another case was voted on 
by the IM Board. This case involved a 
varsity tennis player who was and is 
playing IM tennis. The peculiarity of this 
case is that last year men varsity players 
were allowed to compete in IM tennis. 
This, happened because IM’s were in the 
fall and men’s varsity tennis practice start­
ed in the spring. The definition for a 
varsity player according to the IM Board 
constitution is that you are “either prac-
G
!'*
0/
same varsity sport. Needless to say this case 
went to the IM Board for a decision but 
what was the outcome? The Board ruled 
that varsity players are allowed to play 
ini;¿mural tennis. In trying to reason out 
this decision, I tried to compare tennis to 
water polo since they are both minor 
sports. Unfortunately the analogy does not 
work. IM tennis participation hasher the 
years not declined. Why then was this 
decision made? The answer is beyond 
me.
Unless something is done by the Intra­
mural Board to rectify this situation there 
are going to be many more, complicated 
cases in the future. A common practice in 
law is to base a decision on decisions made 
in the past. If the IM Board tries this policy 
they may well find themselves allowing 
football players to compete in IM football 
because the IM participation has declined 
this year.
I am not mocking the IM Board. I feel 
they serve a very useful purpose by regu­
lating and controlling the intramural 
activities on campus. I do think that 
if decisions are continually made in such a 
haphazard fashion as in the past.the Board 
will find themselves in the center of heated 
debates. There is already dissension among 
students and teams concerning varsity 
athletes in IM’s. The major problem is that
OBERUN 
A CINCH
by Gerry Fraley
The Carnegie-Mellon Tartans will 
attempt to rebound from Saturday’s disap­
pointing 20-14 loss to the Thiel Tomcats 
when they take on the Oberlin Yeomen 
this Saturday at Oberlin, Ohio.
The Yeomen are in trouble. Their athle­
tic program is suffering the after effects of 
the reign of radical-jock Jack Scott. Scott, 
I an often mentioned friend of prominent 
millionaire heiress Patty Hearst^ttempted 
to implement his philosophy during 
his three years at Oberlin before he left last 
fall. It didn’t work.
Only 21 players are on the roster for the 
Yeomen. Gone from last year’s team are 28 
letterman who were expected to return 
including the NCAA Division Ill’s fourth 
ranked passer, Willie Martinez. The majori­
ty of those who left expressed disillusion­
ment with the damage Scott did to the 
program as their main reason for leaving.
The Tartans are 1-1 following Satur­
day’s loss. Oberlin is 0-1 following a 28-0
loss to Centre College of Kentucky. The Shortened games were played with Frost- on,y serious injury suffered by the
burg State College and Pittsburgh Field Taftans was a broken nose tQ offensive
Hockey Association. guard Jay Meenen who is expected to be in
Thanks to the CMU defense s gallant starting lineup Saturday. Jay Duquette 
efforts, Frostburg won by only a nar- an(j pete Antamarino, who played an excel- 
row margin, 1-0. PFHA overcame the CMU 
defense three times in the last five minutes 
to take the second game, 3-0.
The weakest part of the team is the 
organization of the forward line. The team 
maintained the offensive the majority of 
both games but few shots on goal were 
made. Congestion in the striking circle was 
a major problem. The line is effectively 
moving the ball down the field but more 
experience is needed in passing the op­
ponent’s detense.
CMU's Judy Parker passes to teammate
Field Hockey
¡in 9ldii>>¦ rf'" by Crystal Hoffman
The Women’s Field Hockey team played 
Sunday on the field at Chatham College.
lent game in what was his first college ac­
tion Saturday, are expected to split the 
quarterbacking duties. The game will be 
broadcast on WRCT-FM, 88.6.
SWIMMING
PREVIEW
600D
Karate
by Fred Shamlian
Ichi! Ni! San! Again and again the in­
structor’s commands echo through the hall.
|§The students respond, awkwardly. Arms 
f flail and legs ¿npvg. gawkily forward a| the 
novices execute the command, Then mis- * 
takes are accepted as is their growth. Se­
cond degree black belt Ray Artz com­
mands the class, giving instructions, de­
monstrating the proper techniques, and 
helping those with incorrect form.
This is the beginners’ class of the CMU 
Karate Club. Led by co-captains Mark 
Weingarten and Ray Artz, they are taught 
the basics of Shotokan Karate. Beginners 
are introduced to Kihon (basic blocks, pun­
ches, kicks, and stances), Kata (forms simu­
lating combat situations), and Kumite 
(sparring). Instruction is given on the most 
basic level until the techniques become na­
tural and spontaneous.
Karate is a misunderstood art. Some 
people think a semester of Karate will en­
dow them with exotic techniques to 
paralyze opponents. Don’t kid yourself. It 
takes about eight years to master the me­
chanics of Karate and at least three years 
to attain the first black belt ranking.
With the help of Tsutoma Ohshima, 
fifth dan and Sadaharu Honda fourth dan, 
beginners can learn the basic forms.
Practices are held all year in Thistle 
Hall (in the gym) at the following times: 
Tuesday and Thursday evenings, 6:30 to 
8:30 pjn. and Saturday mornings, 11:30-- 
1:30. Anyone interested is encouraged to 
attend.
CMU'S Audrey Goldstein dodges Frostburg's defense.
by Ned Vber
With the biggest team, the most fresh­
man, and the best prospects in many years, 
the Tartan Tankers will be a force in 
P.A.C. swimming. Although the season 
doesn’t start until November 1st, the team 
members are lifting weights and swimming 
in their spare time to practice.
Allegheny and Bethany, the top two in 
the P.A.C.’s will no longer have easy vic­
tories. Hiram, Case, W&J, and John Carroll 
probablv won’t have many victories.
This:year the swim team has a new swim 
coach, Donna Maiello. With her experiance 
as a competitive swimmer and the quality 
of the new swimmers, the potential is 
great. Anyone i in trvine out is
welcome. Practices ;»e held at 3:30 Monday, 
Wednesday, or Friday.
no one is informed of these rulings. The 
students do not know what is and isn’t 
legal. I suggest that it is time for the 
IM Board to publish '» of guidelines 
governing IM participation before the 
situation geis out oi iianu.
Intramurals are a vital aspect of the 
campus enviornment. 1 would hale to see 
mismanagement ruin the merits of the pro­
gram. Considering the quantity of IM par- 
ticpants it seems imperative that immediate 
action is taken.
I encourage all members of the campus 
community to sit in on at least one IM 
Activities Board meeting to see how the or­
ganization is run. The next meeting is on 
Iuesday at 4:30 in the women's gym. 
Meetings are open to the campus.
*
*
*
*
*
*
*
*
*
*
*
*
*
*
*
*
*
*
WYDD (FREE FORM) AND JAMES WHOLEY PROD.
presents
? John Sebastian
? THE FLYING BURRITO BROS.
PLUS CHRISTOPHERS RYE
SFPT 26 SYRIA MOSQUE
Tickets 3 50, 4 50.5 50 
6 00 AT DOOR
AVAILABLE ^ AT ALL NATIONAL RECORD MARTS 
A JEND IN COUNTRY MUSIC
*
*
*
*
*
*
*
*
*
*
*
*
*
*
*
*
??????????????????????????????

---------------------------------------------------

Page 20—THE TARTAN—September 23, 1975
In Rochester, NewYork, it’s been happening for years.
The youth is a member of TOPs. Teens on Patrol. 
A group of boys and girls from the inner city who 
work with police each summer to help keep city rec­
reation areas safe and orderly.
TOPs was conceived by Eastman Kodak Com­
pany and Rochester Jobs, Inc. in 1967. It has brought 
about a greater understanding and mutual respect 
between police and young people from the surround­
ing community.
TOPs don’t have the power to make arrests, but 
they learn about police by working with them. Wear­
ing special jackets and T-shirts, they ride in squad 
cars. Walk the beat. Monitor calls at the station. Su­
pervise kids at pools and playgrounds. For which 
they’re paid a salary.
Police come into the neighborhood as partici­
pants, not observers. When they get to know the 
people they’re sworn to protect, they learn how their 
interests can be better served.
Why does Kodak provide financial support to 
TOPs? Because helping the people of Rochester 
communicate with one another helps build a better 
community in which the company can operate and 
grow. In short, it’s good business. And we’re in busi­
ness to make a profit. But it’s also good for society. 
The same society our business depends on.
If a company that makes pictures can’t help peo­
ple see more clearly, who can?
Kodak. More than a business.
Can black and bluesee eye to eye?
