^CARNEGIETARTAN
TARNSEIS INOaIanaS
VOLUME 55 — NUMBER 22
dG aSTYNdUdEM
WEDNESDAY, APRIL 3, 1963
Tech Awards 
High Number 
Ph.D. Degrees
<Chaplains 
Plan Worship
The Protestant Chaplains invite 
all students, faculty, and admin­
istrators to worship each Thurs­
day, 12:30-1:00 p.m. in the Skibo 
Chapel. During the next two 
weeks, (April 4 and 11), the Rev. 
Mr. Nelson Griffiths (Baptist) 
^nd the Rev. Mr. Edward Biegart 
(United Church of Christ) will 
lead the worship in the form of 
a Lenten Dialogue.
Other Protestant Chaplains who 
will lead the worship at other 
times are the Rev. Mr. Charles 
Carlson (Lutheran), the Rev. Mr. 
j’aul Scharding (Methodist), and 
Miss Joyce Stoutamyer (Metho­
dist).
’Stanford Prof 
Gives Lectures
Dr. Lancelot Law Whyte, auth- 
or> ¿physicist, philosopher of sci­
ence, and Fellow at the Center 
V»r Advanced Studies in the Be- 
havorial Sciences at Stanford 
University, California, will de­
liver two lectures at the Carnegie 
Lecture Hall on April 4 and 5, 
at 8:15 p.m. The lectures are spon­
sored by the Department of 
Architecture at Carnegie Tech.
Dr. Whyte will talk on “Atom­
ism and Forum” and on “Uncon­
scious Mental Processes, Yester­
day and Tomorrow.” The lec- 
^Vres are free and open to the 
public.
Spring inspires annual fraternity water battle. ~Photo by Aron Collons
500 Prospective Students Visit Campus April 6, 
Attend Full Day Of Candidate Programs
This coming Saturday, April 6, 
will be Candidates Day. Invita­
tions to visit Tech were recently 
sent to approximately 1400 high 
school seniors who have been of­
fered admission. It is estimated 
that 500 prospective students will 
be present, with some coming 
from as far away as Santa Mon­
ica, California; Fort Worth Texas; 
and Boston, Massachusetts.
A full day of activities has been 
planned and will include a num­
ber of the deans, tours of the 
campus, and a luncheon to be 
held in the Skibo Ballroom. Phi 
Tau Gamma, Delta Skull, Scimi­
tars, Tau Beta Pi, and all of the 
fraternities and sororities have 
agreed to help with this program 
of events. It is hoped that all 
students on campus Saturday will 
help our guests, especially if they
appear to be lost or confused.
A complete program has also 
been planned for the parents of 
the prospective students.
The program of Candidates’ 
Day is as follows; Students’ Pro­
gram:
9:15-10:15 a.m. 
10:30-10:40 a.m. 
10:50-11:20 a.m.
1:00 p.m.
11:25-12:50 p.m. 
2:30- 4:00 p.m.
Registration
Welcome
Meet the Deans
E and S
Lunch
F A
MMCC
Visits to Departments 
Tours of Campus
Skibo lobby 
Skibo ballroom
Fine Arts Theater 
Fine Arts Room 210 
Breed Hall
Skibo Ballroom
ness Manager.
Serving as new staff editors are 
the following: News Editor, Frank 
Brady; Assistant News Editor, 
Alma Rock: Features Editor,
Marti Siegel; Copy Editor, Clarita 
Dzatko; Advertising Manager, 
John Norris; Sports Editor, John 
Blue; Layout Editor, Nancy Cam­
eron; Secretarial Editor, Katlijr 
Vogel; Circulation Editor, Tost* 
Johnson.
Editorial Board: Peggy Riva,
Margie Park, Ann Moser, Char­
les HoFook, Martin Ackermann, 
Elaine Grummer and Fritz Klinke.
Miron Straf, the new Editor- 
in-Chief, has worked on the pa­
per for two years, as Business 
Manager and National Advertis­
ing Manager. Miron is a junior 
majoring in Mathematics; he is 
President of Theta Xi Fraternity 
and a member of Pi D.E. ana 
C.F.P.
B. J. Zimenwicz, Executive Edi­
tor, has also worked on the Tartan 
for two years, and for the past 
year has served as features Edi­
tor. B. J. is a junior majoring in 
Technical Writing and Editing. 
She is a member of Delta Gamma 
sorority, the Technical Editorial 
Staff, and Pi D.E.
The new Managing Editor, Al­
lan Pollock, has been a member 
of the Tartan staff for two years, 
the past year as Layout Editor. 
He is a sophomore in the Depart­
ment of Graphic Arts Manage­
ment, a member of Sigma Nil 
Fraternity, A Phi O, Student Con­
gress. and Men's Dorm Council.
S’nS Features Vocal Numbers, 
tPromises Creative Show
S’nS has traditionally been a light show with musical 
lumbers aimed at entertaining the widest variety of people. 
Dick More and Dave Stock have been working for months 
composing fourteen vocal numbers to do just that — enter­
tain and interest the “63 S’nS audience.
Those who were fortunate enough to see VIV last spring 
will remember Dick who played the part of the press man­
ager Scotty. At the end of last year, he was promoted to his 
^present position as music director and member of the board.
~~ ~ — * Not only is Dick working on
¿Tues. Assembly 
Sings ‘Messiah’
The next school assembly, to 
be held at 11:30 A.M. on April 
9. will be something quite dif­
ferent from the usual assembly 
'¦format. Instead of having a 
speaker or other programs to 
^vhich the audience simply lis­
tens, this special Easter Assem­
bly next Tuesday, sponsored by 
the Student Christian Federation, 
will be strictly audience partici­
pation. The entire audience will 
be constituted into a choir to sing 
together several of the familiar 
choruses from Handel’s Messiah, 
»'inder the direction of Professor 
Poland Leich of the Music De­
partment. Patricia A. Prattis will 
accompany. Because of the specialf
ature of this Assembly, it will 
e held in the Fine Arts Exhibi­
tion Hall, which is directly across 
the hall from the Little Theatre.
All students, faculty and staff 
are welcome to participate in this 
Assembly. Those who have had 
experience in choirs or who have 
^ung The Messiah before are par­
ticularly urged to come.
the forthcoming show, composing, 
arranging and orchestrating, but 
he is also working as director for 
a Concert of Contemporary music 
with dance which will be pre­
sented by the music department 
on March 31.
Last year, as a member of the 
Woodurn United, Dick won hon­
ors at the Carnegie Awards Fes­
tival.
Dave Stock worked as S ’n S 
music director last year and 
since he returned to Tech this 
year as a Master of Composition 
his experience and talent has, ac­
cording to Dick, been an invalua­
ble contribution the musical mem­
bers. Dave’s outstanding study in 
the music field includes a year’s 
study at the Conservatory of Mu­
sic.
This remarkable thing is not 
an uncommon phenomena to 
S ’n S. The composition of the 
music is only the beginning stage 
of Dave and Dick’s work. The 
music will be turned over to the 
lyricist and choreographer who 
will work the music into its final 
form. Then Dick and Dave will 
again take over and give the final 
organizational touches to the mu­
sical end of the show.
Tech awarded the third high­
est number of Ph.D. degrees in 
engineering among private col­
leges and universities in the 
United States in 1961-62 accord­
ing to a study recently concluded 
by the United States Office of 
Education and the American So­
ciety for Engineering Education.
The study, which was published 
in the February issue of the Jour­
nal of Engineering Education, 
shows that Tech ranks eighth in 
that category among seventy-six 
institutions, private and state- 
supported, granting Ph.D. degrees 
in engineering last year, and 
third of thirty-three private col­
leges and universities.
The report covered 166 schools 
offering at least one approved 
curriculum in engineering. It al­
so revealed that Tech granted 
only six fewer engineering doc­
torates in the 1961-62 academic 
year than the combined totals of 
Penn State, the University of 
Pittsburgh, and the University of 
Pennsylvania and more than 
twice the number granted by 
any other institution in Penn­
sylvania.
Carnegie Tech offers graduate 
study in chemical, civil, electri­
cal, mechanical, and metallurgi- 
ca engineering. The growth in its 
graduate program in the last ten 
years shows that the number of 
graduate students in engineering 
has increased almost 100% to 
slightly more than 500.
Straf
Allan Pollock
This week the Carnegie TARTAN is in new hands as the 
staff for the 1963-64 activities year begins work. The staff, 
announced last week at the TARTAN Banquet is headed by 
Miron Straf, Editor-in-chief.
Assisting Miron, in the position of Executive Editor, is 
B. J. Zimnewicz. Allan Pollock will assume the position of 
Managing Editor and handling the business side of the 
---------------------------------------------------——? Tartan is Michael McCoy, Busi-
Tartan Staff Changes 
With Present Issue

---------------------------------------------------

-
Pase 2 — CARNEGIE TARTAN — Wednesday, April 3, 1963
Campus Pacs Available At 
Donner And Morewood Soon
Here are the famous products you receive 
in the A Phi O Campus Pacs.
A Phi O announces that the 
Campus Pacs have arrived on 
campus, and are just waiting to 
be picked up by the anxiously 
awaiting student body.
These fantastic little packages 
will be available next Monday, 
Tuesday, and Wednesday, April 
8, 9, and 10 in Donner Hall 
Lounge and Morewood Lobby 
from 6:00 p.m. to 8:00 p.m. and 
in Skibo Cafeteria from 11:30 
a.m. to 12:20 p.m.
The Pacs, valued at $3 are just 
loaded with wonderful little 
goodies. The Male Pac contains 
samples of Brylcream, NoDoz, 
Coricidin, Fitch Shampoo, Mix­
ture No. 79 Tobacco, Turns, N R 
Laxative, Stanback Cold Tablets, 
and Ting. The Female Pac con- 
toins Silvikin Shampoo, 5-Day 
Deodrant Pads, Desert Flower 
Beauty Bath, Coricidin, Max Fac­
tor Mascara -Wand, Midol, Turns, 
and N R. Laxative.
Be sure not to miss this fan­
tastic buy! Remember, next Mon­
day, Tuesday, and Wednesday in 
Donner and Morewood.
BULLETINBOARD
Study Group
The informal study group will 
meet this Thursday at 11:30 A.M. 
in the Blue Room of Morewood 
Gardens for lunch and discussion 
with Major Bonhart of the ROTC 
department who will speak on 
“The ROTC program on a col­
lege campus.” Both student and 
faculty members are invited to 
attend.
Judo Club
The Judo Club announces reg­
ular practice sessions in Thistle 
Hall on Monday, 8:00 p.m. and 
Saturday, 2:00 p.m.
Black belt instructor will be 
in attendance on Monday night. 
Please be prompt.
SENIORS and ENGINEERS
Looking for Work!
Consider Bremer and 
Walker Associates for 
your job placement. 
Engineers - Liberal Arts
Bremer & Walker Associafes 
976 Union Trust Bldg. 
Pittsburgh 19, Penna. 
Telephone: 471-9319
TONY'S BARBER SHOP
SPECIALIZING IN ALL KINDS OF HAIRCUTS
OU R"343O6 DEPDA4 T"ATDAM
125 Bouquet St. (Near Corner Forbes and Bouquet)
New Hours: 8 A.M. to 8 P.M. Daily MU. 2-9969
Tartan Positions
All students on campus, who 
¿eel that they are somewhat 
qualified in the production of the 
written word, and who would 
like to work on the Tartan in 
a writing capacity, are urged to 
contact the News Editor, Frank
Brady (682-8959), or his assi 
ant, Alma Rock (682-8875).
Like wise for any creative peol 
pie interested in feature writing | 
contact Marti Siegel (682-8882)1
Txeccutuiv Avc
PROFESSIONAL TYPING - HA. I-14 
On electric typewriters. reason^, 
rates. Themes, Theses. Manuscript I 
Term Papers, Applications, etc. SpejT 
ling errors corrected.
DANCE MUSIC — The Leo Ahítan! 
Combo. HAzel 1-2083. Evenings.
FOR RENT. Large apartment for fourl 
students, Large living room, kitchen, 21 
bedrooms, bath, trunk room, nice neigh.l 
borhood, plenty street parking. $140 pet| 
month JA. 1-24.97 after 2 p.m.
S. GREEN
Ail Watches Electronically Timed
EXPERT WATCH AND 
JEWELRf REPAIRS 
123 Oakland Ave. MU. 1-6104
Career 
Opportunities 
In The 
Sun Country
On-campus interviews
April 9. 1963
For Mechanical, Elec­
trical, Metallurgical 
and Chemical Engi­
neers at B. S. level by 
representatives of
Albuquerque Division
ACF
Industries,
Incorporated
Albuquerque, New Mexieu
For more information 
visit your 
Placement Office
“ACF Is an Equal 
Opportunity 
Employer”
tCl oCxxihi rsvilhlevrePic 
OUR "346" DEPARTMENT 
AND OUR UNIVERSITY SHOP
These two fine departments offer a wide 
choice of practical, good-looking clothing 
and furnishings, reflecting our taste, ex­
clusive styling and unmatched experience 
in outfitting undergraduates. We invite 
you to visit our stores during Spring vaca­
tion, and make your selections.
OUR "346” DEPARTMENT 
(sizes 36 to 46)
Our Tropical Suits, $80 and $95* 
J^ighlweight Sport Jackets, jrom $60 
Tropical Odd Trousers, $25
OUR UNIVERSITY SHOP 
(sizes 35 to 42)
Dacron9 and Worsted Tropical Suits, $65* 
Washable Suits, jrom $40 
Odd Jackets, jrom $25 * Blazers, $45 
Khaki Chine Odd Trousers, $ 10
•Price* »lightly higher west of the Rockie«. 
BSTAtUSHIO I««
§£ens furnishing*' HatN ^$hoe*
600 SMITHFIELD AVE., COR. SIXTH AVE., PITTSBURGH 22, PA.
NEW YORK • BOSTON • CH1CACO * LOS ANGELES * SAN FRANCISCO
On CupswithMccSfatei
(Author of “I Was a Teen-age Dwarf ”, “The Many 
Loves of Dobie Gittis,” etc.)
NOW YOU CAN BE YOUNGER 
THAN SHE IS
It is a scientific fact that girls reach emotional maturity earlier 
than boys. For this reason freshman girls are reluctant to make 
romantic alliances with freshman boys, but instead choose men 
from the upper classes.
Thus the freshman boys are left dateless, and many is the 
night the entire freshman dorm sobs itself to sleep. An equally 
moist situation exists among upper-class girls. With upper-class 
men being snapped up by freshman girls, the poor ladies of the 
upper class are reduced to dreary, manless evenings of Monop­
oly and home permanents.
It pleasures me to report there is a solution for this morbid 
situation—indeed, a very simple solution. Why don’t the two 
great have-not groups—the freshman boys and the upper-class 
girls—find solace with each other?
True, there is something of an age differential, but that need 
not matter. Take, for example, the case of Albert Payson 
Sigafoos and Eustacia Vye.
Albert Payson, a freshman in sand and gravel at Vanderbilt 
University, was walking across the campus one day, weeping 
softly in his loneliness. Blinded by tears, he stumbled upon
mid \ndld # £nomâti*~
the supine form of Eustacia Vye, a senior in wicker and raffia, 
who was collapsed in a wretched heap on the turf.
"Why don’t you watch where you’re going, you minor youth?* 
said Eustacia peevishly.
“I’m sorry, lady,” said Albert Payson and started to move 
on. But suddenly he stopped, struek by an inspiration. "Lady,” 
he said, tugging his forelock, "don’t think me forward, but I 
know why you’re miserable. It’s because you can’t get a date. 
Well, neither can I. So why don’t we date each other?”
"Surely you jest!” cried Eustacia, looking with scorn upon 
bis tiny head and body.
"Oh, I know I’m younger than you are,” said Albert Payson, 
“but that doesn’t mean we can’t find lots of fun things to do 
together.”
"Like what?” she asked.
“Well,” said Albert Payson, "we could build a Snowman.’!
“Bah!” said Eustacia, grinding her teeth.
“All right then,” said Albert Payson, "we could go down to 
the pond and catch some frogs.”
"Ugh!” said Eustacia, shuddering her entire length.
“How about some Run-Sheep-Run?” suggested Albert Payson.
“You are callow, green, and immature,” said Eustacia, "and 
I will thank you to remove your underaged presence from 
mine eyes.”
Sighing, Albert Payson lighted a cigarette and started away.
“Stay!” cried Eustacia.
He stayed.
“Was that a Marlboro Cigarette you just lighted?” she asked.
“What else?” said Albert Payson.
“Then you are not immature 1” she exclaimed, clasping him 
to her clavicle. "For to smoke Marlboros is the very essence 
of wisdom, the height of American know-how,' the incontro­
vertible proof that you can tell gold from dross, right from 
wrong, fine aged tobaccos from pale, pathetic substitutes. Albert 
Payson, if you will still have me, I am yours!”
"I will,” he said, and did, and today they are married and 
run the second biggest wicker and raffia establishment in 
Duluth, Minnesota.
T heP er Bbalma
Freshman, sophomore, junior, senior—all classes,ages, types, 
and conditions—will enjoy mild, rich, filter-tip Marlboro— 
available in pack or box in every one of our fifty statea.

---------------------------------------------------

Wednesday. April 3, 1963 — CARNEGIE TARTAN — Page 3
« Editorial
Federal Indifference To Education
Last week the House appropriations com­
mittee refused the Bureau of Mines’ pro­
posed budget to move to new facilities near 
Pittsburgh. As a consequence, Carnegie Tech 
N cannot acquire their buildings. The refusal 
put a halt to one phase of Tech’s expansion 
program. Tech leases a considerable part 
of the present building, and its use will be 
greatly needed in the future. Perhaps the 
decision not to fund the move was merely 
political; but, regardless oi the reason, the 
< * influence of the decision on Carnegie Tech 
should have had some bearing. Tech’s needs 
^ § were not materially considered—a blatant 
example of federal indifference to education.
Granting the Bureau of Mines funds to 
move would be an example of efficient fed­
eral aid to education without any controls. 
There is no problem of whether or not to 
/ have federal aid to education. We have it, 
and in fact more financial support is needed 
by educational institutions. The problem lies 
t in what kind of aid. True, current federal 
support has caused an unbalance that favors 
science and engineering over humanities and 
the arts in educational institutions. Huge 
federal 'appropriations for defense spurred 
talent and creativity in these fields—implying 
endless results in the future. But these 
achievements should not be restricted. We 
^ should not correct the unbalance by limit- 
() ing science.
The government realizes the importance 
Readers Write
of engineers and scientists to the United 
States. Deferments offered to men in position 
of “critical employment” and aid to institu­
tions and graduate students by the National 
Science Foundation and the National Aeron­
autics and Space Administration are exam­
ples of their belief. There are two private in­
stitutions that graduate more Ph.D’s in en­
gineering and science than Carnegie Tech. 
None can argue Tech’s importance. to the 
scientific development of the United States. 
Why therefore should the government not 
consider its need in the decision of the pro­
posed budget?.
Part of President Kennedy’s 1963 educa­
tion bill is a new program of grants to public 
and private institutions for graduate work. 
Government spends $3 billion per year on 
education. With the current trend of increas­
ing Federal aid to education, especially in 
engineering and science, the appropriations 
committee should have been a little less effi­
cient with the Bureau of Mines, in order to 
be more efficient in extending a hand to 
education.
M.L.S.
We urge you to write and express your 
views to your congressman or to the chair­
man of the House Appropriations Committee;
The Honorable Clarence Cannon 
House of Representatives 
Washington 25, D.C.
A Candle in the Darkness
By Jeffrey Axelrad
South Of The Border
Letters Show Interest In Fine Arts
Student Asks For 
t Notice of Changes
Editor, The Tartan:
A group of painting students 
have been placed in a difficult 
position by the news of the 
forth-coming departure of <an 
^ instructor. These students had 
expected to study under him 
next year. About a week ago 
they found out that he would 
^ not be here next year.
This change has not been an­
nounced by the administration 
and may not be officially an­
nounced next fall. We were told 
that this was not important 
. enough to announce and that to 
do this would be to imply that 
^ the student body had a hand 
in the' choice of faculty. We do 
not see this implication, but do 
know that the student deter- 
mines whether or not to attend 
this school. To withhold infor­
mation of this sort is to mis­
lead the student as to what the 
school situation is to be. Since 
the student's choice of school 
is based primarily on the qual­
ity of instruction he gets there, 
,» dny change in faculty has an 
obvious and direct importance 
for him. To say otherwise is to 
assume an insensitivity on the 
part of the student toward his 
instructors and to suggest that 
one teacher is as good as an­
other. This is not true and par­
ticularly in the instruction of 
art.
This instructor has a high 
- importance for these students. 
*• At a time when most art teach­
ing seems to be a blind res­
ponse to current fashion, he is 
f able to teach that which would 
enable the student to be a class­
ical artist in the tradition that 
existed before this century. 
Since these students regard the 
twentieth century as a period 
of artistic Value it is of great 
importance to them that he be 
^ their teacher. They think of him 
as a master-teacher. A school 
can replace a teacher but never
it'
a master. Therefore, these stu­
dent have virtually decided to 
transfer to the school at which 
this man will be teaching. This 
is the situation, created by a 
brilliant teacher, his devoted 
students, and an administration 
who seems to be insensitive to 
the importance of either.
Gregory Smith
FA Needs Better 
Ticket System
Editor, The Tartan:
Over the years, the Carnegie 
College of Fine Arts has de­
veloped its production of high 
quality plays to such a level 
that recognition has not been 
wanting. There is no denying 
that the players are very happy 
for the opportunity to be appre­
ciated by .a full house every 
running night.
But this full house did not 
just walk into the Fine Arts 
theatre — at least, most of them 
didn’t. They had tickets. There 
are many ways in which these 
'tickets are distributed, and not 
the least known way to the Car­
negie Tech student is the 
method of standing in line.
Distribution of tickets begins 
at 4:00 P.M. However, some 
end at 4:30 P.M. By this time, 
tickets are all gone. If you had 
a late-late class, you could ask 
a friend to stand in line for 
you. But, very often, this is 
not easiy accomplished. Most of 
your friends are in the Same 
class as you are, so they can't 
help. (Not withstanding this, 
your friend’s time must be ac­
counted very valuable too.) 
Some other friends would be 
very willing to help you, but 
cannot because of the restric­
tion of two tickets per person. 
They also need tickets.
Now consider this egregious 
anomaly. The line begins to 
form one hour before the sched­
uled distribution time. By 4:00 
P.M., the line is so long that 
it almost begins to curl back on
itself in that huge Fine Arts 
parlor. Consider too that each 
student is armed with at least 
two I.D. cards. Suddenly it is 
announced that no student is al­
lowed more than two tickets and 
only one ticket is given per I.D. 
card. Two persons sit at the dis­
tribution disk while the line 
grows longer and longer. It is 
estimated that every student 
going through this line wastes 
at least an hour.
All this time the student has 
had to “grin and bear it.” No 
other comment is fitting except 
to say, “IT’S RIDICULOUS!” 
All that time, standing around 
warming one’s heels or holding 
up the columns and walls in 
the great lobby, is wasted. And, 
if time isn’t valuable to any col­
lege student, then we don’t 
know what is.
Of course we admire the per­
sonal service received when we 
hand our I.D. cards to the two 
distributors at the small desk. 
Thank goodness for small fa­
vors. The anomaly, you see, is 
this — busy college students 
with no itme to spare for any­
thing except books and now 
standing in line.
A cynical answer to this might 
be: "What do you want for
nothing?” But this is neither 
here nor there. The Fine Arts 
department is just as anxious to 
have a lull house for its pro­
ductions as these students de­
sirous to get in. The Dept, would 
be very worried, indeed, if sud­
denly no one wanted their tick­
ets.
Another comment might be: 
“It’s all very well to criticize 
but what do you want us to do 
about it?” The'situation can be 
improved. At present, the ca­
pacity of our Fine Arts theatre 
is very limited. We are all look­
ing forward to the time when 
the first ground will be broken 
towards the erection of a bigger 
and better theatre.
For the present, the size of 
[continued on page 4J
The South American countries have traditionally been 
turbulent politically. In the past, the governments’ actions or 
political views were not particularly important to the U.S.— 
although our country has always felt linked with the South­
ern nations due to obvious geographical reasons. Today na­
tions anywhere in the world are our concern as the “cold 
war” goes on and on. “Since” Cuba, the world’s attention 
(and the U.S.’s) has turned to South America. Now we find 
it is to our advantage to stabilize the continent.
How has the U.S. gone about this? It has attempted to 
raise the standard of living of the people so that the popula­
tions of the states will not fall under the sway of Commun­
ists. The plan currently is to offer the separate nations loans 
and grants tied to promises of social reform (breaking up of 
the big estates, etc.) The governments may use their grants 
to help diversify their nations economies, pay for the na­
tionalization of a U.S. owned business as happened in one 
case, or in any way they see fit. The results have not been 
particularly impressive; Communists seem to be thriving, 
the people seem just as poor, and the governments seem to 
be even less pro-American! The plan may not have been 
given sufficient trial yet, but I feel that the trouble is more 
basic.
It is suggested that future aid be tied to guarantees of 
social reform in the direction of allowing more free enter­
prise, more freedom of action for U.S. firms, and a pro-Ameri­
can foreign policy. This may be interferencein the internal 
affairs of a sovereign state, but so what? If a nation does not 
want to accept such conditions, it does not have to take the 
dollars. The administration of the aid should be observed and 
guided by U.S. officials who would be responsiblefor recom­
mending future aid — in this way some inefficiency may be 
eliminated. The important point is to insist upon a policy of 
encouragement of free enterprise; if these countries are in 
the “take-off stage” as it claimed, then the “best” way for the 
country to raise itself economically is to foster Capitalism. 
At least that is what the U.S. professes to believe — so what 
is it doing fostering Socialism down South?
One exception should be noted. Aid in the form of food 
should be continued under all circumstances. If a person is 
starving, feeding him is not a political act, but is simple 
humanity. Those persons who look at every government 
action for its effect on Communism should remember that 
some actions take precedence. All in all though, our aid pro­
gram and the theories and motives behind it should be s[iven 
a long hard look.
afcCARNEGIE
TARTAN
CARNEGIE INSTITUTE UI TtCHNOLOSf
Offices: Skibo. Room 50. Forbes Avenue. Pittsburgh 13, Pa. 
Office phone, MU. 2-4557; Editor-in-Chief, MU. 2-9580 
Business Manager, MU. 2-8898: Advertising Manager, MU. 
29753; Managing Editor, MU. 2-8959. Published weekly 
during the school year except holidays and examination 
periods by the students of Carnegie Institute of Technology, 
Pittsburgh 13, Pa.
Annual Subscription Rate S2.50 
Second Class Po>tage Paid at Pittsburgh. Pa.
Represented for national advertising by National Advertising. Inc.
Editor-in-Chief ..............................................Miron Straf
Executive Editor ................................B. J. Zimnewicz
Managing Editor .............................................A1 Pollock
Business Manager ...................................Michael McCoy
News Editor .................................................Frank Brady
Assistant News Editor .................................Alma Rock
Features Editor .........................................Martha Siegel
Copy Editor ...............................................Clarita Dzatko
Advertising Manager ..................................John Norris
Sports Editor ....................................................John Blue
Layout Editor .......................................Nancy Cameron
Secretarial Editor .........................................Kathy Vogel
Circulation Editor .....................................Tom Johnson
Editorial Board: Peggy Ri\a. Margie Paik. Annie Moser. Charle* Hofook, Marti« 
Ackennan. Elaine Grumer. Fritz Klinke.
Sports Staff: Toni Terpack. Ted JCngelmann.
Photo: Aron Collins, Bill Jackson. Russ Stinebaugh.
Layout Staff: Tom Glassberg. Drew Lippay, Dick Elder. Diane Brown. Mario« 
Mulligan. Sue Stitt, A1 Pollock. Fritz Klinke.
Secretarial Staff: Carole Breuer. Ann Carten Nancy Beth Jacobs. Leslie McKinley. 
Sue Sterhardt, Lorraine Vinograd, Mary Muir, Jenny Low, Carol Young, Jane Samuels.
News Staff: Colin Jones, Marty Moore. Fav Landau. Frank Brady. Gladys S<al- 
insky. Jaye Lapidus. Elie Denberg, Miriam Gillespie. Marion Mulligan. Loia 
ElinofT. Janice Lester, Jam Leone, Marty Sau^r. Chuck Steinmeyer, Peg«? 
Riva. Judi Meyers. Jan Seharp. Marty Siegel. Sally Sheats, Sandy Lancaster. 
Cindy Wolfsoti. Ellen Hamill, Nancy Adams, Sandy Byrne.
Circulation: Tom Johnson. George Kali and Jay Priest.
Features Staff: Andrea Nether. Joan Hoexter, Jane Skeehan. Ruth Geshek'en, 
Susan Cr.vtier. Perry Axarlis. Nadalyn Goldberg. Ken Lieberman, Jeffrey 
Axelrad Marion Mulligan, Judy Meyers. Lynn Mahler, Jennifer Low, Martr 
Sauer. Irene Grandberg, Ollie Donaldson.
Copy Staff: Barbara Brow*. Nancy Green, Jane Keeler, Mary Vvwr, Jane Sam­
uels. Ginny Uliss, Verna Ream.

---------------------------------------------------

Page 4 — CARNEGIE TARTAN — Wednesday, April 3, 1963
CRICKETEER®
atye (Eoarli limtae
Traditional Apparel for Men 
5823 Forbes Ave. Squirrel Hill
Phone 521-7600
Open Taesday and Thursday evenings until 9:00
Letters Show Interest in Arts
[continued from page 3] 
the audience must continue to 
be restricted by means of tick­
ets. However, the number of 
ticket distributors could be in­
creased in order to increase the 
rate of distribution. Also, a large 
placard could be placed a few 
feet from each distributor, in­
dicating the dates and days of 
tickets remaining, so that stu­
dents can decide beforehand, in­
stead of deciding at the desk.
As foi the two-tickets-per- 
person restriction, the rule can
be modified "to say four tickets 
per person. In principle, the re­
striction on the number of tick­
ets per person is recognized as 
necessary to prevent the corner­
ing of a whole night’s perfor­
mance by any particular group.
In all, the plays are very good. 
We believe what is asked by 
way of improvement is a small 
thing. We hope that the idea 
stated here wil not prove to be 
so much printers ink wasted.
Charles Ho Fook
YOUNG MAN
here's 
the real 
Madras story 
by
The beauty of our 
Cricketeer authentic 
Madras sportcoats is that 
no two will ever look alike. 
The fabric, hand-woven 
in pit looms of India 
with the freedom of 
native craftsmanship, 
comes out with striking 
differences every time. 
After each washing, the 
excess dye runs 
(“bleeds”) and results 
in variable muted 
colorings. Express your 
own individuality now... 
choose from our 
selective collection.
$35.00
Two Sides Of Spring
NOTICE
TO* Faculty, Staff and Student Body of Carnegie Institute of Technology
FROM: Executive Clothiers Associates 
SUBJECT: Private Sale of Men's Clothing 
DATE: Continuing Week of April 1 to April 25 
PLACE: Holiday House Motel - Suite
Rte 22 — Monroeville — Phone 821-3804
TIME: 10 A.M. to 9 P.M.
DIRECTIONS: 20 minutes from campus
On Parkway East to Monroeville
DETAILS: We will conduct this exceptional selling event 
on an annual basis for the Carnegie Tech community — 
We are offering you a choice stock of fine men’s clothing 
consisting of hundreds of men’s suits that compare to $85 
retail — We will sell them All for One Price — none high­
er .. . $35. The latest of patterns and fabrics are in this 
fabulous group in all sizes. Exceptional fine sports coats 
—reg. $49 are sold for $12 - $25. All wool slacks usually 
sold for $18.98 are $9. Raincoats (imported) fine hand de­
tailed that sold for $22.95 are $10. White shirts of a betjter 
grade are 3 for $5. Neckwear, including silks, usually $2.50 
each are 6 for $3. For the gals we have only one item — 
seamless nylons — 6 pair for $3. Go get your friends and 
associates and come out to the fabulous Holiday House 
Motel and let us show you the latest and finest clothes at 
unbelievable savings.

---------------------------------------------------

B'nai B'rith Hillel
ANNOUNCES
PASSOVER SEDER
Tuesday, April 9th — 7:30 P.M.
$3.50 per person Open To All
R. S. V. P. Immediately 621-6500 Ext. 77
20* DISCOUNT
QUALITY DRY CLEANING 
Fine Shirl and Laundry Service
CRANDALL-McKENZIE
3935 Forbes Ave. MA 1-7500
Open 8 a.m. to 8 p.m.
NOMINATED
ACADEMY AWARDBest Foreign Film
OF THE YEAR 
A CINEMATIC MIRACLEI'—Bosley Crowther, N. Y> Timm
Serge BourguignoiTs 
t
:i*.. /..Vv-
Pittsburgh’s discriminating audiences will be privileged U see this
PRIZE WINNING FILM
PITTSBURGH'S ARTIS' THMTR*
xjrHltCv Murray & Beacon JA. 1-0700
FEATURE TIMES — Daily — 6:08 - 8:08 - 10:08 
SAT. and SUN. 2:08 - 4:08 - 6:08 - 8:08 - 10:08
Wednesday, April 3, 1963 — NATRAT — Pagre T
Headquarters for Keepsake Diamond Rings
(ßroobiine Qewelru
936 BROOKLINE BOULEVARD LO. 1-2671
I
OVSYHCVa TYn 4dlCen iHtC 
IlVCh 4Htea "rHaHkYseN 4H 4eGL
Exactly six days and forty 
seven seconds after the Cincin- 
^nati-Yoyola game, Jose Caged, 
secretary to Frank Towel, releas­
ed another one of the bombshells 
from Towel’s offce. Tech had 
* urned down another national in­
vitational athletic bid. The Press 
release took the same form as the
cross country, as Mr. Towel 
apologized for not accepting a bid 
to either the NCAA or the NIT 
but explained that he had been 
bribed by a large national college 
and, because of the serious eco­
nomic troubles Tech is now ex­
periencing, he was unable to turn 
down the money.
'63 METALLURGICAL ENGINEERING GRADS
Start at $8,400 with local corporation 
No Agency Fee
Aid for graduate studies on night school plan available.
Call * • . Career Personnel 
GR 1-8926
4150 Jenkins Arcade Pittsburgh 22
THE ENGAGEMENT RING WITH THE PERFECT CENTER DIAMOND
True artistry is expressed in the brilliant fashion styling of 
every Keepsake diamond engagement ring. Each 
setting is a masterpiece of design, reflecting the full brilliance 
and beauty of the center diamond ... a perfect
gem of flawless clarity, fine color and 
meticulous modern cut.
Authorized Keepsake Jewelers may be listed in the 
MixxCf Pages. Visit one in your area and choose from 
many beautiful styles, each with the name “Keepsake" 
us the ring and on the tag.
I Yd' ad gUAN MdnR SNEAESWSNa ANk 'SkkINE
J Please send two new booklets, 1 How to Plan Your Engage« 
j ment and Wedding" and 1 Choosing Your Diamond 
I Rings," both for only 10c. Also send special offer of 
I beautiful 44 page Bride's Book.
COOPER Ring $500. Wedding Ring 50.00.—RIVIERA Ring 
$300. Also to 975.—ROBBINS Ring $150. Wedding Ring 50.00.
All ring* available in yellow or white gold. Price*
include Federal Ta*. Ringt enlarged to show v*-----,
beauty of details. ©Trade-Mark registered.
Addreu
Git*------ r*
KEEPSAKE DIAMOND BINGS, SYRACUSE Ï, N Y.

---------------------------------------------------

Page 6 — NATRAT — Wednesday, April 3, 1963
FOR RENT
4 rooms, bath, 3rd floor 
Aug. 1, 1963 
4 rooms, bath, 2nd floor 
May 1, 1963 
6400 Bartlett St. JA. 1-1560
SHARE TRANSPORTATION COSTS ON YOUR NEXT 
DATE! IT'S CHEAPER THAN USING TAXI-CABS!
No rentals under age 21. For ages 21 to 25 there is a 20% additional 
charge and a cash deposit is required. Please note: Other car rental 
companies do not rent to drivers under 25.
BUDGET RENT-A-CAR OF PITTSBURGH, INC.
609 Bigelow Blvd. (Across from the Carlton House) Pittsburgh 19, Po.
PLHCef 261-3320
Boys night out? — Girls night out? 
Both night out?
Then Grab a Snack or Dinner
... at RITTERS DINER
5324 Baum Blvd. (near Liberty)MU. 2-9318
RENT NEW CARS... AND SAVE UP TO k Q%
Hard Fighting Tech Team Scores; 
Came Clinched With Strong Squop
Yo-Yo 4eVF 
cHanN 4luHdSN
Tryouts for the Tech Yo-Yo 
Team will be conducted in the 
Head Yo-Yo’s office, Room 106, 
Skibo Gym next Thursday, April 
6. at 4:30 p.m.
Interested Yo-Yos are invited to 
attend.
devastated Angina-Pectoris with 
a deadly series of long-range 
squidges (a maneuver by which 
ones own wink is deposited in the 
cup, similar to basketball. See 
NATRAT, Vol XXV, BASKET­
BALL).
Refrsehment served after the 
match included tea and bagels, the 
latter served as request of the 
Britishers to “seé if there is any­
thing more indigestible than 
crumpets.”
Tech Winkers on the way to a smashing 18-12 victory 
Event was sponsored by the Society for Indecency to Naked 
Animals, (SINA).
Squidging and squopping at a 
feverish pitch, a group of Car­
negie Tech Tiddleywinkers de­
feated an all-star British Wink 
team in a benefit match held 
March 32 in the Skibo ballroom. 
Benefiting was The Society For 
Indecency to Naked Animals, 
Local 007.
Playing to a packed crowd of 
16 (four of which were repre­
sentatives of the sponsoring or­
ganization, a group dedicated to 
clothing all unclothed animals 
longer than four inches or taller 
than six inches), the four man 
Tech team of Scurvy, Psittacosis,
Angina-Pectoris and F(x), (pro­
nounced noo-BAH), easily con­
quered their British rivals of As- 
ton-Martin, Daimler, Jaguar, and 
Morris by a score of 18-12.
Brilliant play was the order of 
the day. Scurvy completely im­
mobilized Aston-Martin when he 
squopped (a maneuver by which 
one’s own wink is deposited upon 
an opposing wink), Martin’s lone 
remaining wink and thus captured 
the match. Jaguar retaliated as he
Look what you get—6 different, wonderful pipe tobaccos in one handy sample package! What easier way is there to become a tobacco connoisseur? You get only the finest premium blends you can buy. No ordinary pipe tobaccos here! Each blend is chosen for mild taste and pleasing aroma. Each blend has its own “special some­thing” to give you a thoroughly satisfying smoke. Enjoy each one by itself or experiment! Mix different blends anyway you like for an exciting change of pace!
SAVE MONEY! Special “Get Acquainted” Offer! 
CUSTOM PACK REGULAR PRICE *249
NOW ONLY$l98
Hurry! Offer good only while supply lasts!
THIS IS THE FAMOUS
Custom Pack!
Six choice pipe tobaccos
EASY WAY TO FIND 
A NEW FAVORITE!
Go to any tobacconist or druggist near the campus
pSNanTpM TUn1 
WI2anRS
Smells so good because 
>t tastes so good.
UdNkdN kdTp
A cool-burning 
English type tobacco, 
distinctively aromatic.
'YIaSYAUU WI2anRS
Superbly mild and aromatic, 
never burns hot.
k5NNIG5Rk
A smooth, mellow cool 
burning mixture with 
subtle taste and aroma.
1RnOY TRSSp
Uniquely full bodied 
and rich tasting, yet 
pleasingly mild.
ERSSN1RISR
Menthol cool and mild with 
real tobacco taste.

---------------------------------------------------

Wednesday, April 3, 1963 — NATRAT — Pa*e Ï
Get LuckyPlay "Crazy Questions”
(Based on the hilarious book "The Question Mon.")50 CASH AWARDS A MONTH. ENTER NOW. HERE’S HOW:
First, think of an answer. Any answer. Then come up with 
a nutty, surprising question for it, and you’ve done a 
“Crazy Question.” it's the easy new way for students to 
make loot. Study the examples below; then do your own. 
Send them, with your name, address, college and class, 
to GET LUCKY, Box 64F, Mt. Vernon 10, N. Y. Winning 
entries will be awarded $25.00. Winning entries sub­
mitted on the inside of a Lucky Strike wrapper will get a 
$25.00 bonus. Enter as often as you like. Start right now!
RULES: The Reuben H. Donnelley Corp. will judge entries on the basis of 
humor (up to l/3), clarity and freshness (up to V3), and appropriateness (up 
to >/3)> and their decisions will be final. Duplicate prizes will be awarded 
in the event of ties. Entries must be the original works of the entrants and 
must be submitted in the entrant's own name. There will be 50 awards 
every month, October through April. Entries received during each month 
will be considered for that month's awards. Any entry received after April 
30, 1963, will not be eligible, and all become the property of The American 
Tobacco Company. Any college student may enter the contest, except em­
ployees of The American Tobacco Company, its advertising agencies and 
Reuben H. Donnelley, and relatives of the said employees. Winners will be 
notified by mail. Contest subject to all federal, state, and local regulations.
THE ANSWER:
7VYAGNET1CPOLE
lioo aiejs oSaia ues uef 
¿MBSJBM UJOJj uenf uoq b 
UBO noA pinoM *bmm :NOIiS3nÒ 3HI
THE ANSWER:
PHYSICAL
ED
•Aiun siouiill UJ3i|;nos ‘uuXod^ ujei||iAA 
¿sndiuea uo uetu 
*S9§U0J*S 941 SI OMM :NOIlS3nÒ 3H1
I THE ANSWER: 
I 
I
9Rei>iehal
iiojjaa jo Aiun *||3MS 30|uef
¿peq ¿¡eg X|UO A||B9j s; oqM uosjsd e 
equosap noX op moh :NOIIS3fìÒ 3Hi
THE ANSWER:THE ANSWER:PUBLIC SPEAKING
oSeoiMO jo Aiun 'nSnojL w us|iv
¿9uoijdd|a} Sjij JdMSue oi|qn<j 
PI6MSO S90P MOH :NOIlS3f1ò 3H1
TIME:1
I THE ANSWER:
I 
I-Aiun uo}Suii|seM 'jsjeeips w uijof |
¿SS9U
unossiw jo Atun suej uiif
¿spjo*
•isnq s.as|8 auoXj0A9 inoqe tpnw os I -xo^îmm pue >pB|q papjBosip jo jied e 
mou>j lues saop moh :N0I1S3HÒ 3H1 j ll*> n<>* PinoM *bmm :NOIlS3fìÒ 3HI
THE ANSWER IS:Gel Luckythe taste to start with.. .the taste to stay with
THE QUESTION IS: WHAT IS TEG YKCUL SPELLED BACKWARDS? Any way you 
look at it, Lucky Strike spells pleasure—big smoking pleasure. The reason: Fine 
tobacco taste. The result: Luckies are the most popular regular size cigarette 
among college students. So get with your peer group. Get Lucky!
MU. 3-4992
Swimmers Battle Swift Current 
Swamp Opponents In Triple Meet
NOW PLAYING 
Academy Award Show 
Ann Bancroft Patty Duke 
in
THE MIRACLE WORKER 
also
Bort Lancaster 
and Thelma Ritter
BIR D M AN OF 
ALCATRAZ
Starting Sun. 4-7-63 
:i day showing; only 
Kenneth Cannon 
and Joan Sims 
CARRY ON TEACHER
Michael Crair 
and Virginia Maskell 
DOCTOR IN LOVE 
in color
Coming Soon “Billy Budd”
By Bill Harttep
In their last triple meet of the 
season, last Saturday the Tech 
tankmen rumbled over compara­
tively weak Ohio State and Yale 
teams.
Yale jumped off to an early 
lead, winning the medley relay 
with a time of 3:21.9, three sec­
onds ahead of the Carnegie team. 
The Tech relay team was hamper­
ed by the absence of Bill Burdett, 
who got lost on the way to the 
washroom, and didn’t show up 
again until the sixth event. In the 
next event, the 200 yard freestyle, 
Tech freshmen Bell and Andrews 
pulled ahead of the pack by a 
full length and a half. Unfortu­
nately, Andrews caught his foot 
in the scum gutter and drowned. 
Despite the disheartening sight of 
his drowning team mate, Bell 
swam onto win the event with a 
record-breaking time of 1:39.2. 
Tartan swimmers swept the next 
three events. Then in the 200 yard 
butterfly Tech gave up second 
place to Ohio State’s Nate Clark, 
as Tech’s Burdett was still lost 
somewhere between the pool and 
the washroom.
Misfortune struck the Tartan 
team again in the 100 yard free­
style. Team captain Tom Brunson, 
who was scheduled to swim the 
event, was caught trying to steal a 
Yale towel and was arrested. As 
a result, the Tartans had to settle 
with a second and third in the 
event. Mark McClay and Alex 
Speyer finished with times of :45.9 
and :46.3 respective, both being 
under the former world record. 
Yale’s winning time was :44.5.
Tech’s luck changed in the 200 
yard breaststroke, even though 
Ace Lester, Tartan star, did not 
swim. Lester was suffering from 
an uncontrollable state of jubila­
tion ever since Andrew’s accident 
made the breast stroker Tech’s top 
scorer. Tartan’s Specht and Easley 
came through in good form to 
sweep the event with times of 
1:58.8 and 2:04.0, respectively.
Tartan luck held in the next 
event, the 500 yard freestyle. Be­
cause of Geary Andrews’ accident, 
Tech flash, Hartlep, was forced to 
swim the event alone. Hartlep 
won the event so swiftly that he 
jumped back in, swam the 500 
yards again, and took a third this 
second time around.
Leading by only 54 points, Tar­
tan Coach Sofield made a change 
in strategy and swam Randy 
French in the 200 yard backstroke.
Needless to say, this was a poor 
move, for French ran out of gas 
and failed to finish the race. 
Lightning Wyman, Tech hero, 
pulled the event out of the fire 
by speeding past the leading 
swimmer in the last 6V2 inches 
and winning the event with a 
time of 1:49.2.
In the last event of the meet, 
the Tech freestyle relay of Snow, 
Speyer, Burdett (who finally 
found the pool), and McClay, 
barely touched out the Yale team 
for the victory. The last three 
swimmers were forced to average 
46 seconds per man to make up 
for Snow’s 1:01. The winning time 
was 3:19.0.
High scorers for Tech were 
Lester with 16, French with 14, 
and Burdett with a girl from Ohio 
State. The Tartan’s look forv/ard 
to an easy season next year with 
Grove City, Southern California,
Princeton, and Pitt on their sched­
ule. They look for trouble Only ^ — Photo by Aron Collons
from Western Reserve and Knox- Tartan swimmers dive for the mermaid os the rest of the team stands at the poolside 
ville YMCA. wishing they were in the race!
Product of </&i.*/m*A<€4in jC&e** Ccnyxiry — < Chappp is our middle

---------------------------------------------------

Paffe 8 — NATRAT — Wednesday, April 3, ARNS
SALUTE TO GENIUS ...IN CONCERT
jr-
*
HAL ZEIGER
presents
aYS WdOa TRSAaIHS y. 
WnOITAU EIANa dG y A 
aYIO ESNSRAaIdN-
asssss’s
PLAYING HIS HIT RECORDS
f ‘GEORGIA* • mWHAT D I SAY' • 'RUBY'
“I CAN’T STOP LOVING YOU” 
“BORN TO LOSE”
Musical Arrangements by QUINCY JONES and RALPH BURNS y 
^ Entire Production Supervised by JEFF D. BROWN
All seats reserved — Tickets $2.50, $3.00, $4.00, $5.00 
Tickets on sale at all National Record Mart Stores and Horne’s.
SYRIA MOSQUE - SAT., APRIL 20th
Two Shows — 8 p.m. and 10:30 p.m.
SHOES SHOES SHOES
WALLY'S
yVFrdN — IV,Hlen
Women Men
SMART CASUALS HUSliTpUPPIES
LOAFERS LOAFERS
FLATS MASSAGIC
DRESS SHOES FLORSHEIM
U.S. KEDS
3612 FORBES AVE. (Across from Strand Theater)
Why you should buy from
*VI/]ad5acliu5etts lfi/]utua( 5 
LIFE INSURANCE COMPANY¦*Springfield, Massachusetts
ORGANIZED 1851 3-
IT'S OLD . . . LARGE . . . STRONG
One erf the country’s oldest, largest, strongest life in­
surance companies
Over nine billion dollars of life insurance in force
Over two billion dollars of assets . . . 10th among 
American life insurance companies ... 40th among 
corporations of all types
IT'S MUTUAL
Owned by its policyholders ... no stockholders
Substantial dividends paid to policyholders every year 
since 1869
0
IT’S SAFE . . . SOUND
Complies with the rigid standards of the insurance de­
partments of all states. District of Columbia, Hawaii and 
Canada
A century-old reputation for sound investment policies 
and practices
IT'S PROGRESSIVE . . . FAST GROWING
Has one of the ablest and best trained sales forces
Has reputation for pioneering new policyholder benefits 
Selling about a billion dollars of new life insurance a 
year
IT SERVES
You will be assured of lifetime service no matter where 
your work may take you
OH RVl AeNSlYGSYHCN 
Idaa ",YVSYHC yH,elVke ",VYaVBae
Ballet Secret of Basketball Witts, 
Miss Kanrich Given Full Credit
By Mike Cameron
The Carnegie Tech athletic di­
rector and basketball coach has 
released his formula for a suc­
cessful Tech season. With the as­
sistance of Miss Kanrich, women’s 
physical education instructor, he 
has been training the team in bal­
let every Thursday afternoon. 
This year’s season saw the Tar­
tans win more than twice as many 
games as last year (91b 4 as many 
to be exact) which indicates the 
plan may be successful.
However, some skeptics have 
pointed out that more basketball 
games were won before the dance 
lessons started than after. They 
also feel that the players look a
bit strange standing on their toes 
in green tights. Some members of 
the team admitted a little dis­
pleasure at the new plan; their 
main source of discontent seemed 
to be wearing the women’s leo­
tards that Miss Kanrich donated 
to the cause. Further comments 
from the team disclosed that the 
boys preferred playing basketball 
than imitating it. Nasty comments 
increased in number as the team’s 
toes became more tired.
The coach squelched the com­
plaint with his comment: “At
least the team will lose gracefully, 
if not graciously, which is almost 
as good as winning awkwardly.
In the future, the basketball team 
should set an unprecedented rec­
ord in the former.” Miss Kunrich 
snorted, “Nonsense, you boys are 
too young to feel silly. Now as­
sume the position . .
As you reporter left, there was 
some indecision whether two 
points should be given for the 
last shot since Miss Kanrich was 
stuck in the basket and how long 
the coach should stand on his 
toes when they finished dribbling 
him around the floor. Techites 
can be proud and confident for 
their university is still trying, and 
contrary to rumor, that it recog­
nizes the importance of being best 
at losing.
Tech Corners Napotnick & Septic; 
Honest Recruiting Practices Used
By Scott McCormick
The athletic department has 
just released the announcement 
that all-state basketball stars 
John Napotnick and Lon Septic 
have decided to enroll at Carnegie 
Tech. The announcement was 
made by Tech’s Atheltic Director 
at a lavish banquet thrown in 
the two players’ honor by the 
Athletic Department at the Pitts­
burgh Hilton last Saturday night.
I caught John Napotnic just 
after the banquet as he was 
climbing into his newly acquired 
’63 Vorvette Stingray that he re­
ceived in trade for his old 1948 
Ford. I asked John to elaborate 
on some of the reasons that made 
him decide to come to Tech. John 
said one reason was the fact that 
his father will soon begin duties 
here at Carnegie as Assistant 
Head of the Department of Towels 
at a salary of $795 per month. 
John also said that he had been 
offered a two thousand dollar re­
search grant from the athletic de­
partment to investigate the elas­
ticity of basketballs.
Talking with Ron Septic as he 
laid across one of the Hilton 
tables, I learned beside the fact 
that he had really tied one on that 
night, that his father would also
begin working for Tech as a piano 
tuner in Hamerschlag Hall. This 
summer Ron will also work here 
on campus, learning the art of 
being a rent-a-cop, qualifying him 
to work checking parking meters 
in the fall. His salary will run 
about $120 weekly.
For those of you who haven’t 
followed local high school bask­
etball, John and Ron are both all- 
state players who made big names 
for themselves in the state tourna­
ments. Eeptic stands at 6’-5” and 
weighs about 200 pounds while 
Big John Napotnic goes 6’-9” and 
weighs in at 285.
I saw Tech’s basketball coach 
the next day as he got out of his 
newly acquired 1948 Ford. I 
learned that both Big John and 
Ron Septic have also been granted
$2000 annual academic scholar­
ships. The coach commented that 
the Dean of Financial Aid ob­
jected at first, but after ten min­
utes alone with the two boys, he 
soon changed his mind.
Both John and Ron will reside 
in two newly furnished, wall-to- 
wall carpeted, three-room suites 
in Donner Hall. Their meals will 
be catered to them daily by the 
courteous waitresses from the 
Woodlawn Pharmacy.
The coach concluded by saying 
that the decision of the two stars 
to enroll at Carnegie is an ex­
cellent example of Tech’s ability 
to attract outstanding athletes 
without the expensive, unethical 
recruiting practices that have 
been used so flarantly by all of 
the country’s big athletic schools.
SPEND YOUK 
HOLIDAYS
The world** most famous YMCA invites 
you to its special holiday programs.
Clean, comfortable and inexpen* 
sive accommodations for young 
men and groups of alt sizes are available.
Rates*. $2.60-$2.75 single; $4.20- $4.40 double.
Write Residence Director for Folder
A
'IUUIAW OUdANS YdnOS M0W0T0A0|
358 West 34th St (nr Ninth hi*.) 
lew York, N.Y. Phone: Oxford 5-5133
(On« Bloch From Penn Station)

---------------------------------------------------

Paffe 4 — NATRAT — Wednesday, April 3, 1963
Editorial
Banana Peels
Very few people realize the importance 
of banana peels in the world today. Not only 
do they play vital roles in foods, science, and 
the military, but in women’s fashions also.
The most obvious use of banana peels is 
in preserving bananas. It is a well known 
fact that bananas have a tendency to dry 
out and wither away if taken from their 
peels. In this sense banana peels are the 
most convenient way to ship bananas, form­
ing a natural covering. Here science and na­
ture play compromising roles. Nature has 
coloredits best, Grade A banana peels green. 
The green peels preserve the bananas for a 
long time and permit shipment over long 
distances. However.thp Grade A green peels 
deteriorate to Grade B. yellow which don’t 
preserve the bananas as long. The life of 
Grade B peels is short lived, and Grade C 
brown Deels result. Here the banana is on 
its last leg. If not taken from this low «rade 
peel, comnlete chaos may result and the 
banana will die in agony.
One of the «reat scientific law? of t^ay 
was d’c^overed bv a 6 vear old. Many Slip- 
pord. Being a neglectful and ohtssa boy. 
Manv dronoed a banana peel on th'f* flo^r of 
his school house one dav after lur>°h. Tt so 
happened that Manv’s 65-vear-r>Td school 
teacher was walking over to ball him out for 
getting a -10 in a spelling test when sV>o step­
ped on the pell and found herself 20 feet 
away on the floor in .236 se^^ds, a oheno- 
m^rion which disobeved all of Newton’s i^ws 
of Motion but d^finitelv established the Law 
of B^nada Peel. Now Manv’s r*reat d’s^overv 
has been put to use in the rt°adlv B-bomb. 
more feared than the H (for “hatom”) bomb. 
During a militarv engagement the airforce 
will drop the B-bomb directly over enemy
Vitalize Living
lines, spraying the enemy position with 
thousands of banana peels. Theoretically, 
this will throw them into confusion, allow­
ing men to attack successfully.
To show the importance of bananas in 
some peoples’ lives, we have the words of 
Juan Tothree. Juan owns a plantation in 
Argentina. He has 20,000 acres of banana 
bushes.
“What started you in this business?” 
“Sir, mv father was in it, and my grand­
father. and his father. We’re all true banana 
men. Ever}'’ time I see a banana bush my 
heart goes out to its beautv and majesty. 
You might say mv heart is in my banana.” 
Few people realize the "reat importance 
of banana peels in the field of women’s 
fashions. One day about 20 of us American 
kids were at the beach in Rio de Janeiro. 
We happened to hear a commotion of some 
sort a hundred or so nautical fe°t away, and 
natnrallv ran over to look. There in the 
middle of a lar"° crowd was a nrcttv Zrazil- 
ian pfirl in the newest of ^’kmis con­
sisting of thrpo banana peels. The banana 
peels were hold on in some unknown man­
ner. Tn the interests of pure science, we de­
cided to investigate closer (much closer'I but 
nr>on exf»rnir>c*tion ^o phvsical laws could be 
discovered. We concluded that banana peels 
must have* some secret of their own, some 
clinqin« abilitv unknown, as yet, to science 
but wpll known to the fashion world.
Summarising then, banana peels plav 
j*reat parts in foods, science, military, and 
the fashion world: I am confident somedav 
their grc^t important will b^ realized, and 
National Banana Peel Day will be cel Crated 
throughout the worl^I (February 30 has 
already been suggested.)
Writ.
Expedition Draws Comment
Explorers Couture 
Strange Animal
On the hike on Smith Moun­
tain, West Virginia, on February 
3 (see TARTAN Feb. 13) mem-
bers of the club found some 
strange, unidentified tracks. After 
much consultation with natural­
ists, these tracks were tentatively 
identified as those of the though 
to be extinct Eastern Hodag (Ho- 
dagus Appalachius). By evolu-
WEBSTER HAI
You’ll rate with your date...
For a meal or just 
a snack-put Hotel 
Webster Hall on your 
close-to-campus entertain­
ment schedule.
kotefc Wete/ Hull
4413 Fifth Avtnu* Pittsburgh 13, P«.
TaUphon«: MAyflow*r 1-7700
Winner of 2 Academy Award Nominations!
“BEST DIRECTOR" AND ‘BEST SCREENPLAY-’
BEST AMERICAN 
FILM OF 1962!"
AN UNUSUAL 
LOVE STORYtDAViDSLiSASQ HILL
SQ. HILL — HA. 1-4909
Fifth Magnificent Week
New Policy — Daily Matinees 
For This Engagement
OAHINEO SARN 
UI1SRAU 
kIHIkSNkO Q/
VO LUME5V
open every Tuesday evening 
p.m.
^# open every TuesdayFranklin federal "* “S
SAVINGS AND LOAN ASSOCIATION
5816 FORBES AVE., SQUIRREL HILL
U,el 35 oeVC Hg Servie* SH the Pitt$burgh Community
• SAVE BY MAIL • WE PAY POSTAGE BOTH WAYS • FREE ENVELOPES. TOO.
• SAVINGS INSURED UP TO $10.000 BY AN U. S. GOVERNMENT AGENCY
• GET EXTRA EARNINGS—SAVE BY THE TENTH—EARN FROM THE FIRST
Through The Glass Darkly
Individual Freedom
By Jack Asslmry
tionary processes this animal has 
developed anisometric limbs, thus 
adapting it uniauel.v to its habitat 
of steep mountain slopes. An ex­
pedition. under the leadership of 
a leading conservationist, was 
sent March 30 and 31 for further 
investigation.
The government of the United States and its individual 
states, expressing the will of the vast majority of its citizens 
has decreed that slavery is illegal. Why? The reasons most 
commonly given for this restriction of individual liberty 
should be examined.
It is claimed that this “evil” practice is inhuman and 
causes bad health and degradation of character. This would 
seem to be the cause where the slave owner is brutal and 
exploits his slaves. However, even if this is the case, is this 
sufficient reason to keep people from becoming slaves know­
ing that their owners might be brutal.
There are 5% unemployed in America today. These 
people have little hope for security in the future. Just think 
what legalized slavery would mean. These people could 
insure themselves security for the rest of their lives by be­
coming slaves. In the selling contract they could specify 
under what conditions they were willing to be slaves and 
protect themselves from undue hardships. These people 
could become productive and conscientious workers. The 
government could buy them to work at defense plants and 
missile sites to stop wasteful strikes there.
If slaves were sold on the open market their price would 
be a true reflection of a person’s worth. The price of labor 
would probably fall; U.S. products would become more com­
petitive in world trade.
There are more advantages. Masochists could become 
slaves to sadists providing in the contract that certain kinds 
of punishment be inflicted at periodic intervals. Our mental 
hospitals could then be relieved of these types of patients. 
The U.S. could prove that it is really the greatest demo­
cracy in the world by electing a slave as president.
Of course, only people mature enough could be able to 
decide whether they wanted to be a slave or slave owner.
It is time that pressure is brought to bear on the major­
ity to relax the unjust restrictions on slavery. All the legis­
lation that is needed is a law to prevent buyer’s from in­
fluencing people before they are old enough to make intelli­
gent decisions. It (legalized slavery) is a step towards a free 
society and individual freedom in that it removes the pres­
sures of economic considerations on individuals.
ATTENTION
1963 Candidates for 
Bachelors and Masters 
Degrees in Electronics
RADIATION INCORPORATED will have a representa­
tive on campus to interview candidates who are inter­
ested in a challenging opportunity in the Electronic 
Research and Development field. Radiation Incorpor­
ated has a reputation as a leader in Telemetry, High 
Speed Data Processing, Data Link Systems, Radar, RF 
Systems, and Automatic Tracking Systems. Our state-of- 
the-art research and development programs combined 
with the climate and conditions of sunny Florida provide 
ideal surroundings in which to gain that experience 
necessary for today’s electronics engineers.
Continuing contributions by Radiation to such advanced 
R & D programs as Gemini, Minuteman, Dyna Soar, 
Nimbus, OAO, Telstar, and many others have led to 
increased needs and unlimited opportunities for out­
standing engineering graduates.
For interview appointments and further information 
contact your Student Placement Office, or send resume 
to: R. R. Rhodes, Radiation, Incorporated, Melbourne, 
Florida.
¦
wt1 RADIATION
/ /V C O Ft F> O Ft "4 x O 
"C DpdVa UrrHlSdCYSu DFraHuel
y

---------------------------------------------------

. — Photo by Aron CollonsThe B&O Railroad announced today it has purchased salvage rights for the above structure,Don’t be a meat-head! Get Vitalis with V-7. It 
keeps your hair neat all day without grease,
Maturally. V-7® is the greaseless grooming discovery. 
Vitalis® with V-7 fights embarrassing dandruff, prevents 
dryness, keeps your hair neat all day without grease. Try it!Coin Meters Finance Expansion, 
Students Pay To Walk 'Cross Cut
j The Carnegie planning board one cent meters for the bicycle charge for walking across the cut. 
j announced today that it has com- rack. There will also be a twenty- The planning board feels that all 
;pletely revamped its expansion five cent charge for anyone wishing : students will be in complete sym- 
plan for the coming ten years, to use the Panther Hollow skating pathy with these increasing rates. 
The new expansion plan will con- ring or Flagstaff Hill. Hours on C. I. T. students will also be 
, sist of buying Schenley Park and Flagstaff will be from 11:00 a.m. happy to note that Mrs. X. Men- 
the country club adjacent to it. to 1:15 p.m. from April 1 through j del has graciously offered to don- 
j C. I. T. is planning several June 5th —• this area will be ate funds for a new dramatic ai ts
changes for this area. First, the closed at all other times. There center in the park as opposed to
country club and golf course wrillrwill be a security man and a the tennis court area. The struc- 
| be open to faculty members only, housemother on duty at all times ture is to be of yellow and purple 
j (It has already been noted that j who will sign students in and out stucco wtih one stained glass win- 
the number of golf clubs and carts of the area. j dow situated at the entrance to
I purchased by faculty membersi In order to finance the pur- I the building.
has increased tremendously.) Sec- chase of Schenley Park and to Transactions for the purchase 
ondly, there will be a new park- i make the improvements mention- , of the park will be completed 
!ing lot built for student cars. It, ed, it will be necessary to keep on April 1. 1963 and work on the
I will contain the usual five cent • parking meters in all places in suggested additions will begin im­
parking meters for cars and the i which they are now situated, and mediately.
Inspired by the trio’s latest hit, “Greenback Dollar," this offer 
makes any Kingston Trio album available for only $1, when you 
purchase another at the regular price. There are 16 to choose 
from, including their newest "#16.” Buy as many as you like... 
but buy them soon! This offer is limited.
(S)T-1871 (S)T-1809
------———
|S)T-1747 (S)T-1705
Also Available!COLLEGE CONCERT (S)T.1658 • CL6SE UP <S>T.1642 • KINGSTON TRIO 
ENCORES DT-1612 • GOIN' PLACES (S)T-1564 • MAKE WAY (S)T-1474 • STRING 
ALONG WITH THE KINGSTON TRIO (S)T-1407 • SOLD OUT (S)T-1352 • HERE WE 
60 AGAIN! (S)T-1258 • THE KINGSTON TRIO AT LARGE (S)T1199 • STEREO 
CONCERT <S)T-1183 • FROM THE hungry i T-1107 * THE KINGSTON TRIO T-996
’Optional with dealer
real stopper
Mermen Spray delivers 3 times the anti-perspirant power of any 
other leading men’s deodorant. The fine spray mist gets through 
to the skin where perspiration starts. Deodorizes. Effectively. And 
works all day. Is it any wonder more men use Mennen Spray in 
the handy squeeze bottle than any other deodorant? [M]
Wednesday, April 3, 1963 — NATRAT — Pate 3

---------------------------------------------------

fl
Page 2 — NATRAT — Wednesday, April 3. 1963
Teeli Students Join Popular 
Movement To Raise Tuition
For the past week and a half, the student body of Car­
negie Tech has been picketing the office of the President in 
Administration Hall. The students are demanding further 
increasesin tuition, but the administration has shown con­
siderable resistance to the students’ requests.
The students feel that the $475 tuition increase over the 
past four years has not beeu^
enough. They are not satisfied 
with merely paying the same 
amount of money that the stu­
dent at the Ivy League schools 
pay—Tech students want to pay 
more!
The administration is unwilling 
to accept this proposal because, 
according to President Warner, 
the school will not know what to 
do with all the extra money. At 
present, the administrative and 
faculty salaries are adequate; 
moreover, top professors from all 
over the country are fighting to 
obtain positions on Tech’s faculty 
because of the smaller salaries 
that Tech does offer.
Then, too, the construction com­
pany that has been contracted to 
build the new dramatic arts cen­
ter is insistent upon paying Car­
negie Tech for giving the company 
work. The administration feels 
that an increase in tuition would 
be a burden because the difficulties 
of finding something to do with 
the money would only confuse the 
accounting department.
Yet, the Tech students remain 
adamant in their demands. They 
have even threatened violence if 
their request is not in some small 
way granted. To quote Mark Ap- 
plebaum, speaking for the stu­
dents: “Not only is a higher tui­
tion a mark of prestige for the 
present students, but it will also 
limit admissions next year so that 
we can keep out student body to 
a minimum and thereby create 
a kind of elite.”
Moreover, the students have ex­
pressed that they want to pay 
more tuition so that in some small 
way, they can show their appre­
ciation for all that Carnegie Tech 
has done for them. They also have 
said that they want to increase 
the alternative costs of going to 
college, especially to Carnegie 
Tech, so that upon graduation they 
can look back and feel that col­
lege was made a more worth 
while experience because it was 
so difficult to afford.
Their arguments are sound, but 
they are willing to sacrifice and 
compromise. If the administra­
tion will not grant an increase in 
tuition, the student will be willing 
to accept an increase in the cost 
of room and board.
Flash: Late announcement: The 
IM Department announced today 
that all baseball games that go 
into extra innings will start one- 
half hour earlier than usual.
JOBS IN EUROPE
Grand Duchy of Lux. Mar. 29, 1963
The American Student Informa­
tion Service, celebrating its 6th 
Anniversary, will award TRAVEL 
GRANTS to first 1500 applicants. 
ASIS is the only authorized or­
ganization offering approved sum­
mer jobs in Europe, on a large 
scale, to U.S. students.
3,000 paying summer jobs (some 
offering $i90 monthly) are avail­
able. Jobs include working in 
Swiss resorts, or Norwegian farms 
in German factories, at construc­
tion sites in Spain, and at summer
camps in France.Send $1 for a 20-page Prospec­
tus, complete selection of Europeon 
jobs, Job Application, handling 
and airmail reply. Write, naming 
vour school, to: Dept T., ASIS, 
22 Ave. de la Liberte, Luxem­
bourg City, G.D., of Luxembourg. 
The first 8000 inquiries receive a $1 coupon towards the purchase 
of the new student travel book, 
Earn, Learn and Travel in Eur­
ope.
Women Learn 
Basie Rules
[continued from page 1] 
trails blazed already to Donner, 
Hamerschlag, and all the frater­
nities.
The girls picked up additional 
survival experiences when each 
WROTC was turned loose with a 
Morewood Gardens ration kit. All 
cedets survived, but many com­
plained of severe malnutrition.
Phase six concentrates on dodg­
ing unidentified flying objects. 
Under extreme pressure the 
WROTC’s were forced to stroll by 
fraternity houses where baseballs 
loomed close to their heads. Next 
the cedets were led to the paper 
airplane obstacle course in front 
of E. H.
The military is contemplating 
adding a seventh phase-dodging 
foxholes in th Morewood Gardens 
walk. Although this is bound to 
upset the fiscal budget for 1964.
The WROTC officials are 
pleased with their first class and 
feel that it will prove to be an 
invaluable experience for the girls 
who expect to venture out on the 
Tech campus.
Admin. Stresses Fun Filled Year, 
Relaxes Dorm Rules, Raises Grades
In accordance with its ever progressive Carnegie Plan, 
Tech’s administration has announced a sweeping change in 
its policy towards students. This new policy, as outlined in 
the following paragraphs, is being initiated in the hopes that 
Tech’s students may have a more pleasant time during their 
four year interim on campus.
Concerning faculty-student relationships, both groups 
will in the future make an honest* '
effort to get along better. Faculty 
members have promised to give 
out more A’s and B’s and less D’s 
and R’s, so that the majority of 
students can show the scholarship 
people that teachers are doing a 
better job (because of higher 
grades, naturally) and should get 
more money. Likewise, the stu­
dents have promised to cut less 
classes, not to sleep during lec­
tures, not to bombard instructors 
with pennies, paper airplanes, his­
ses, or other paraphenalia, and, 
most important, not to write any­
more poison pen letters. With re­
spect to dormitory regulations, 
the men will now be permitted to 
have women, visitors in their 
rooms, although only on week­
ends. Women will be permitted in 
the dormitory from 6:00 p.m. un­
til 10:00 p.m. on Friday, Satur­
days, and Sundays. Also, liquor 
regulations at dorm parties will 
be relaxed, extending the amount 
of time the bar is permitted open 
from one hour to an hour and 
five minutes.
When in the library, especially
the reserve section, students may 
now smoke and talk as they please 
without becoming the recipient of 
a librarian’s cold stare. Also, stu­
dents may henceforth check out 
as many reserve books as they 
wish without being reprimanded.
Dean Milligan has decided that 
since most of the women in More­
wood Gardens are over 18, they 
are perfectly capable of deciding 
between right and wrong, there­
fore, she is removing all curfews. 
Likewise, none of the Morewood 
housemothers will “roam” about 
the lobby, disturbing couples en­
gaged in stimulating conversations. 
Men will not be permitted in the 
upstairs rooms, however, since the 
women prefer the privacy which 
they presently enjoy.
Finally, with respect to the 
campus cops, students need no 
longer worry about getting one of 
Tech’s “finest” wet during a water 
battle, since they have orders not 
to go near such student pleasan­
tries. Also, students may now 
walk on any grass without fear 
of having the ominious whistle 
of a white-hatted man in blue.
If anyone has any questions 
about this new policy, feel free 
to drop in on Jake, AH252.
Engineering Trainees *6,000
Night school students with over two years 
and grade average over 2.5.
MECHANICAL OR ELECTRICAL
Call
Supplemental educational benefits 
with large Pittsburgh corporation.
. CAREER PERSONNEL
GR 1-8924
4150 Jenkins ArcadePittsburgh, 22
iCi
Start with a carton and you'll end up knowing why Winston is America’s 
number one filter cigarette...first in sales because it's first in flavor.
The next time you buy cigarettes, buy pleasure by the carton...Winston!
TARN SEIOan d 
GYUNRM xecuNR e
J
plus : FILTER-BLENDUP FRONT
.© H ©I
© 1962 B. J. Reynold* Tobacco Company, Winston-Salem, N. C.

---------------------------------------------------

f
^CARNEGIENATRAT
TARNSEIS INOaIanaS dG aSTYNdUdEM
VOLUME 55 — NUMBER 22 WEDNESDAY, APRIL 3, 1963
Vigorous Tech Women Enlist 
In Special Reserve Program
— Photo by Aron Collons
I am ju$t as well dressed as Axelrad.
Tech Group Campaigns 
Against Naked Animals
SINA, the Society of Indecency to Naked Animals, wants 
you for a member, the only requirement being that you are 
a moral, fully clothed member of society. SINA, a four-year 
. old organization, is dedicated to the philosophy that since we 
' as humans are biologically animals, and accept the social 
custom of wearing clothes, then animals too should be per-
» mitted to share our propriety. 
Under the leadership of G. Clif­
ford Prout, the society is engaged 
in clothing all animals that stand 
higher than four inches or are 
longer than six inches.
Mr. Prout’s newest attack has 
been on nudist camps. He be­
lieves nudists should return to a 
I' normal state of dress and pro­
priety. In his warning to them he 
declared, “After all, nudists have
* contributed nothing to our cul­
ture except perhaps a few good 
volley ball players. This is not 
enough and I am ashamed of their 
behavior for the good of our na­
tion.”
Previously admonishing New 
York policemen for riding naked 
horses, Mr. Prout is now cam- 
§ paigning for either closing zoos 
©r providing clothing for the in­
habitants. It is his belief that see- 
w ing naked animals in their cages
has a morally damaging effect on 
children, without mentioning the 
traumatic effect it has on the poor 
cratures being displayed in this 
unnatural state.
Students, join the march for 
decency and sing the official SINA 
marching song, “Wings of De­
cency”—High on the wings of 
SINA we fight the future now. 
Let’s clothe every pet and animal 
whether dog, cat, hourse or cow.
G. Clifford Prout our President 
he works for you and me so 
clothe all your pets and join the 
march for world wide decency. 
S-I-N-A that’s our call 
All for one and one for all 
Hoist our flag for all to see 
Waving for morality.
Onward we strive together
Strong in every way
All mankind and his animal
friends for SINA, S-I-N-A.
— Photo by Bill JacksonI dreamed I joined U. S. ROTC in my Maidenform petti-panfs.
Campus Assoc. 
Clarifies Tech 
Time Tones
AH campus clock watchers are 
invited to pick up their free copy 
of the Ludicrous Association of 
Time Engineers’ newly revised 
edition of “Correction Factors for 
Carnegie Tech Clocks.”
The most conspicious change in 
this publication is the shift from 
the Administrative Hall lobby 
clock to the__ Skibo snack bar 
clock as the official criterion of 
campus time. The newly adopted 
campus time zones are fully ex­
plained. There is now a separate 
standard time zone for each 
building on campus; for example, 
AHST, MMCCST, CFAST, EHST, 
and Morewood Girls’ Time, 
LATE. •
L. A. T. E.’s correction factors 
deal with three types of clocks: 
those which are correct only once 
a day; those which are off by 
only a constant amount, and those 
erratic ones which tend to gain 
an hour in certain five minutes in­
tervals (thus making time fly.)
Several faculty members’ as­
signment gave an ingenious 
L.A.T.E. member the idea of add­
ing an appendix: it contains a 
formula for the twenty-fifth hour 
of the day.
¡-^resident
Six Phases Of Tech Survival 
Compose New WROT Training
After having undergone basic training at Camp Getem- 
ready, Carnegie Tech’s WROTC’s (women’s reserve officers 
training corps) representatives returned to campus.
The girls returned full of enthusiasm for the new pro­
gram and are particularly desirous that the rest of the camp­
us become acquainted with their experiences. All are su^e
--------------------------------------------------------?that many Tech girls, especially
those from Morewood, will want
large
have
Tech Gains 
Class Time 
At Vacation
The zealous efforts of a 
group of C.I.T. students 
finally convinced the administra­
tive board that any Thanksgiv­
ing vacation would constitute an 
unwarranted interruption of val­
uable class time. In its decision 
curtailing Thanksgiving recess, 
the board regretfully announced 
that Thursday is a national holi­
day, but promised to consider 
holding classes that weekend in­
stead. The proposal was grateful­
ly accepted by the large student 
delegation stationed outside Ad­
ministration Hall.
Jolm Birch Society
The John Birch society will 
meet on the right side of the cut 
on Wednesday, April 10, to dis­
cuss the topic: “Does Dormitory 
Living Encourage Communism?” 
All patriotic American students 
are invited to attend.
to enlist.
The WROTC’s received instruc­
tion in six main phrases of mili­
tary tractics. The first of these 
was the art of practical defense. 
Training in this phase included 
instruction in Saturday night ju­
jitsu holds. The WROTC’s re­
ceived practical experience in this 
phase through military coopera­
tion with Tech fraternity houses. 
After completing this phase, the 
WROTC had only one comment, 
“Civilian life was never this 
good!”
The second phase concentrated 
on clinch methods for full skirts 
on the Cut. This is training most 
WROTC’s would rather be with­
out.
The third phase provided in­
struction in water safety. Train­
ing was given in techniques of 
safely passing fraternity water 
battles without getting wet. Un­
fortunately, most of the WROTC 
cadets fluncked this part with 
soggy colors.
Survival techniques were 
studied in detail in the fourth 
phase. Practical training was 
given in trail blazing in Schenley 
Park. “It was strange,” com­
mented the girls, “that we found 
[continued on page 2]
