The Carnegie Tartan
Vol. 38 No. 27
TX’s, Betas Fight For 
Softball Championship 
Delts Defeat Betas
The Theta Xi’s are now in first 
place in the second half of the 
league by having played one more 
game than the Betas. The Betas 
were knocked out of undisputed po­
sition of first place by virtue of a 
2-1 defeat by the Delts. This was 
probably the best game of the week. 
The score was tied 1-1 going into 
the last half of the sixth when Bob 
Harlow, Delt shortstop, slapped out 
a double to drive in the winning 
run. The Betas, with two men on 
base in the first of the seventh could 
not score.
The Theta Xi’s lost their first 
game to the Betas by the score of 
13-5. The Theta Xi’s lost the game 
by poor defensive play. The “Bears” 
held firmly to last place by losing 
to the Theta Xi’s 13-2. In the only 
other game of the week the Theta’s 
went into first place by squeezing 
the Delts 6-5. The Theta Xi’s won 
the game by scoring in the last half 
of the sixth. The game next week 
between Theta Xi and Beta Theta 
Pi will undoubtedly decide the 
champions of the league.
STANDINGS
Won Lost Pet.
Theta Xi .............. 4 1 .800
Beta Theta Pi.......... 3 1 .750
Delta Tau Delta___1 3 .250
Bears ......................... 0 3 .000
Students Take Over 
Playhouse Production
In the recent Playhouse production 
“Heaven Can Wait” it seems that 
Tech students took over a majority 
of the parts. Barbara Burns ’43, 
graduate of the Tech Drama School 
and member of Kappa Alpha The­
ta, has won wide acclaim for her 
excellent portrayal of Bette Logan, 
the boxer’s sweetheart. The critics 
handed her some of the scanty 
praise bestowed upon this play. 
Her handling of a difficult role in an 
even more difficult comedy was ex­
tremely commendable. She was one 
of the few who caught the spirit of 
the play. Barbara also acted in 
“Out of the Frying Pan,” another 
Playhouse show. She has also been 
in radio work but really has her 
eye on a movie career. And it seems 
that the movies are also interested 
in here, for several companies have 
already given her screen tests.
Cast as Julia Farnsworth, the 
murderess in “Heaven Can Wait,” 
is another Tech Drama student, 
Muriel Rosoff. She has acted in 
other playhouse roles and, before 
the war, played at the Starlight 
Theater in Pawling, New York. 
Other Techites in the cast includ­
ed Bill Barley, Milan Kochera, and 
Boyd Stine.
CARNEGIE INSTITUTE OP TECHNOLOGY, PITTSBURGH, PA.TUESDAY, AUGUST 15, 1944
*7astiati CUooA&l BtajhSeniors Graduate
Lowenstein, Herlick As Co-Editors I*1 Sylvan Theater
Have Many New Plans For Fall f ollv Semors ReceiveDiplomas August 27
Notice
Applications for scholarships must be handed in to Dean Daniel’s office no later than Monday, August 
21.
At the meeting of the Tartan edi­
torial staff held last Friday night 
elections for the new staff for 
the fall semester were held. Act­
ing as co-editors, Ernie Lowenstein 
and Adeline Herlick will share the 
responsibility of the editorship of 
the paper. Clara Herron and Jerry 
Brickman were chosen as the new 
co-managing editors, and Dottie 
King took over Jerry’s job as News 
editor. Augie Binder was advanc­
ed to Copy Editor. Mary Jane Hor- 
ridge, one of the very few Maggie 
Murph girls who has helped to sus­
tain the struggling Tartan staff dur­
ing the summer, has earned the po­
sition of Headline editor.
Ernie is still in the saddle after 
one successful semester in the edi­
torial chair, and Adeline has come 
back to us from Penn State with 
new ideas and new slants on jour­
nalism which she will put into use 
in the coming semester. Jerry 
Brickman has been with the staff 
since last May and has worked hard 
to earn his way up as a co-manag- 
ind editor. Taking over in July, 
Clara Herron has done a wonderful 
job in doing A1 Perry’s work as 
managing editor along with her 
own work. Augie Binder and Dot­
tie King came to Tartan last semes­
ter, and, although they were green­
horns at the start, they have work-
Gala Booths Highlight 
Six For One Benefit
A feature of the 6 for 1 Benefit to 
be held September 22 at the gymna­
sium will be a variety of colorful 
and interesting booths. The Harvest 
Home Booth under Mrs. C. C. Brin- 
ton of the Woman’s Clan should be 
of special interest to all victory gar­
deners. In it will be displayed jel­
lies, preserves, and produce from 
some of our gardens. From Mrs. 
Brinton’s farm will come a fascinat­
ing variety of tomatoes — cherry, 
plum, orange, and yellow tomatoes; 
from Garden Center Head, Mrs. 
Oliver’s Fox Chapel Estate, will 
come other fine fruit and vegetable 
specimens.
To those whose interests do not 
include fruits, vegetables, preserves, 
or jellies, Mrs. Cole’s booth of lapel 
ornaments and pins may be more 
appealing. These ornaments are tiny 
dolls—all handmade from a colorful 
and fascinating variety of beads. 
Each doll has its own intrinsic per­
sonality due perhaps to a button- 
shape face, an extra long neck, or 
a pair of purple socks.
Having whiled away your time at 
these two utterly different booths, 
it would be only human to pause 
at the Food Booth wherein will be 
found cake, candy, cookies, and 
every sort of tempting delicacy, all 
of which have been contributed 
from the pans and ovens of Tech 
friends.
ed hard to earn their new positions 
on the staff.
The editor’s duties include writ­
ing the, editorial and general super-
Adeline Herlick
vision of the running of the staff. 
Managing Editor has the duty of 
make-up, along with taking charge 
of the mechanical workings of the 
paper. Assigning news stories to 
the reporters on the staff is the par­
ticular job of the News Editor. 
Copy Editor takes the responsibility 
of reading all copy before it goes to 
the printer’s office, and Headline ed­
itor assigns and checks all head­
lines.
CIT Student Designs 
New Type Plastic Hand
Through Dottie King’s knowledge 
of plastic sculpturing, gained by her 
in the Fine Arts Department of Car­
negie Tech, the plight of an Army 
officer has been relieved to the ex­
tent that he is no longer forced to 
wear a noticeably artificial hand. 
Miss King’s familiarity with a new 
life-like plastic called Dicor, en­
abled her to supply the officer with 
a new hand minus the tell-tale 
glove. A mold was taken of his re­
maining hand from which the fea­
tures could be determined. Into this 
mold were placed pieces of the new 
Dicor, then heat and pressure were 
applied to form a natural looking 
hand.
Miss King decided, after giving 
much thought to her job, that the 
new hand should be in a relaxed 
position in a way that a package of 
cigarettes could be placed between 
the thumb and first finger. Finally, 
Miss King’s exceptional aptitude 
showed through with her decision 
that hair be attached to the hand 
to increase its exactness.
The third graduation ceremony of 
the year of Carnegie Tech seniors 
will be held in the Sylvan Theater 
at 3:00 Sunday afternoon, August 
27th. At that time, thirty-six sen­
iors in the Secretarial department 
of Margaret Morrison Carnegie Col­
lege and four seniors in the College 
of Engineering will receive their 
diplomas for completion of their 
courses at the Institute.
Dr. Charles Watkins, director of 
Margaret Morrison Carnegie Col­
lege, will make the principal ad­
dress to the graduates at the cere­
mony.
The baccalaureate service, which 
will take place in the Sylvan Theater 
at 8:00 Saturday evening, August 
26th, will be given by Dr. William 
Lindsay Young, Pittsburgh Regional 
Director of the National Conference 
of Christians and Jews.
The Alpha Phi Omega service fra­
ternity will user at both events.
This graduation is the second to 
take place this summer, and is the 
result of the expedited program 
now in effect throughout the En­
gineering and Margaret Morrison. 
Carnegie Colleges.
Former CIT Instructor 
Becomes Naval Recruit
Twenty-four year old Robert 
Dodds, of Omaha, Neb., a graduate 
of Carnegie Institute of Technology 
and now a recruit in the Navy, has 
sixty-seven inventions to his credit. 
Prior to his entrance into the Navy 
he was an instructor in civil engi­
neering at C. I. T. 
r His inventions include a contriv­
ance designed to eliminate head­
light glare in driving, consisting of 
an electric eye mounted on the front 
of an automobile to automatically 
dim the lights as another car ap­
proaches; and a rotary inertia stab­
ilizer for home movie cameras 
which is attached to the swivel of 
the camera tripod to insure a 
smooth sweep when following a 
moving object. Some of his other 
inventions include a machine which 
prints titles on the rounded backs 
of books; a device for seeing through 
clouds or dense fogs by the use of 
infra-red rays; and a mechanical de­
vice for unloading a truck load of 
building bricks at one time.
Notice
There will be a meeting of all members of the TARTAN staff in room 232, Industries Hall, this Fri­day evening, at 7:30 P.M.
Notice
There will be a poll taken this Thursday to give all students an opportunity to express their opin­ions and wishes regarding future assembly programs to be given in the Little Theatre next semester. All students are urged to partici­pate in this poll, which is the first chance for the students at Tech to have some say in regards to the Tuesday morning programs.

---------------------------------------------------

2THE CARNEGIE TARTANTUESDAY, AUGUST 15, 1944
ZdUta'Ci AtofuUtaisi
Good Assemblies Are Up To You
In past semesters, our regular Tuesday morning Assemblies in the 
Little Theater have been a sordid failure, partly because of the lack of in­
terest displayed by the students, and partly because of poorly chosen pro­
grams. We join the administration in the hope that this situation will 
undergo a radical change during the next semester, and that henceforth 
the period from eleven to twelve on Tuesdays will no more be an extra 
hour of bridge in the canteen, or a last chance to look over books and 
notes for a coming exam, but instead fifty minutes of invigorating enter­
tainment and relaxation in the Little Theater.
We realize, of course, that the students cannot be expected to attend 
assemblies regularly if the programs offered do not conform to their 
wishes. Inversely, we shall know whom to blame for poor attendance 
when and if the presentations are what the students want. With this in 
mind, we ask your whole hearted cooperation in the poll, to be conducted 
this Thursday, which will attempt to furnish the administration with 
students’ suggestions for future assemblies.
You shall have many things from which to choose. Movies, both 
sound and silent, can be obtained for every conceivable subject, and you 
can voice your preference among these about science, sociology, travels, 
humorous subjects, the war and anything else you can think of. Although 
the school’s limited budget does not permit outside speakers of nation­
wide renown, scores of persons around Pittsburgh—members of our and 
the other universities’ faculties, scientists from Westinghouse, the Mellon 
Institute, or the Carnegie Museum, and many other outstanding Pitts­
burghers—may be asked to discuss topics ranging from scientific advances 
to civic administration or travels through Alaska.
In addition to such outside enterainment, you students yourselves could 
make one or more assemblies great successes by organizing debates and 
forums on current events or similar topics. Fraternities, sororities and 
other campus groups could have special assemblies, at which they could 
present skits, sing their songs, or amuse us in—almost— any other fashion.
Once again the improvement of Carnegie Tech, for your benefit and 
that of your followers, is put squarely into your hands. We cannot promise 
that all your wishes can be granted, for with few exceptions programs must 
be interesting for everyone, but we know that your cooperation shall be 
equalled, if not surpassed, by the administration. Give this matter some 
thought, and on Thursday, express your preferences on the ballot which 
shall be given to you then. And by the way, we can think of corny sug­
gestions ourselves, so please don’t waste our time and yours as well as the 
paper which is so scarce these days, and refrain from being “funny.” Re­
member, it is better to remain silent and be thought a fool, than to speak 
up—in this case, write—and remove all doubt.
Welcome, Adeline!
As always, when the end of a semester is approaching, the Tartan ed­
itorial staff convened Friday night to elect its editors for next semester.
We are happy to welcome as our colleague the new Co-Editor-in- 
Chief, Adeline Herlick. If ever a person deserved this honor—doubtful 
as it may be—it is Adeline, for she has been a member of the Tartan staff 
longer than any one of us. We know that we can expect great things from 
her, for she combines inherent talent with a lot of experience.
This issue, incidentally, is the last one of our second, and, we fervently 
hope, our last summer semester for many, many years. Many of the issues 
put out these last few months were far below the standards the Tartan 
would like to maintain, but we believe that the circumstances excuse, or 
at least explain this. The campus was dead; there was no news to fill our 
columns, and our staff lacked the experience necessary to dream up fea­
tures to replace the news. The heat, as everyone can testify, was horrible, 
and those of you who spent sweaty hours behind your desks—and who 
didn’t?—can appreciate our mood and ability to turn out good work during 
the long and hot afternoons and nights.
All this, however, is a thing of the past—except, possibly, the heat— 
and we sincerely hope to reach and surpass former heights during and after 
next semester.
Opinion* expressed in the pages of the TARTAN are those of the members of the ttaff; in the case of the editorial column they are those of the Editor. They are not to be construed as necessarily the opinions of either the student body or the faculty.
The Carnegie Tartan
Carnegie Institute of Technology, Schenley Park, Pittsburgh 13, Pa. 
fHONI MAYFLOWER MM PHONE SCHENLEY 4RSI
After Office Hours Call
Know Pittsburgh’s History . . . 
City Founded On Bloodshed
Conclusion
mmNNTtO FOR NATIONAL ADVERTISING RYNational Advertising Service, Inc.
Collett Publishers Representative 
TX’ s,BetaF igho New raShf bo ro 
Owe—o • Bostom • Lm M«iui • Sam F«a»cisco
Editor-in-Chief............................EM. 94»4
Business Manager.........................EM. 9424
Fort Duquesne was burned never 
to rise again; the French had left 
Pennsylvania never to return. Wil­
liam Pitt, new English prime minis­
ter, had put an end to English inac­
tivity in America and had begun a 
forceful prosecution of the Seven 
Year War. The capture of Fort Du­
quesne was only one of many vic­
tories.
However, winter was near, and 
there still remained some danger 
from the French and Indians. So, 
after a few days of celebration, the 
militia went to work erecting a 
stockade. This first small Fort Pitt 
was located on the Monongahela be­
tween the ends of the present West 
St. and Liberty Ave. It had sprung 
up so quickly that facilities were 
still inadequate, and, as a result, 
that first winter of English occupa­
tion seemed endlessly cruel.
However, by summer, life at 
Pitts-burgh was brighter. Gen. 
Stanwix had arrived with engi­
neers, artificers, and plans for an 
immense new fort. In no time the 
point was a beehive of activity. 
There were several sawmills locat­
ed on the stream now called Saw 
Mill Run, and a collection of forges, 
saw-pits, and brick kilns. Clay for 
brick was dug from the hill on 
which Duquesne University now 
stands; coal was mined on Coal Hill 
or Mt. Washington; and stone was 
quarried from Herron Hill. In a 
year’s time an impressive structure 
had risen on the point.
Perhaps it would be fun to turn 
back history and visit awhile at 
Pittsburgh in 1761. From Grant’s 
Hill we have an excellent view of 
the infant city. Before us stretches 
the wheatfields, cornfields, and gar­
dens. Clustered along the muddy 
Monongahela to our left is a sloven­
ly group of log cabins. On our other 
side flows the clear blue waters of 
the Allegheny. Here a pleasanter 
sight catches our eyes. It is the 
King’s Artillery Gardens, which are 
laid out in garden plots and shaded 
walks. Even apple and peach trees 
are planted there and, if it happens 
to be spring, the Allegheny mirrors 
a colorful array of pastel blossoms. 
But the sight which holds our spell­
bound attention longest is the squat, 
five-walled fortification at the junc­
tion of the three rivers. But why 
wait here; let’s get on to the fort.
Urging our weary horses forward, 
we feel a surge of satisfaction—we 
have reached the end of an endless 
jurney. As we ride into the more 
populous section of Pitt’s Town, we 
are greeted with cheery “hallo’s.” 
Big, brawny, bearded pioneers in 
buckskin hunting shirts ask us 
where we are from, what’s news at 
Ligonier, whether we had any In­
dian trouble. Buxom, barefoot pi­
oneer women dressed in linsey 
watch us curiously while Indian 
children swarm about us. A green- 
coated Pennsylvania militiaman of­
fers to escort us to the fort and two 
nattily dressed British officers greet 
us cordially in passing. (As we ride 
further along the rutted clay road, 
we come within the shadow of the 
fort.) Before us stands the formid­
able outer works of a serated em­
bankment, through which we pass to
reach the moat. As we cross the 
drawbridge, it rattles under our 
horses’ hooves; and before we pass 
through the gateway, we stop to ad­
mire the brick and earth walls which, 
are 15 ft. thick. The brick is an old 
whitish color, quite unique. Once 
within the fort we can see that the 
three riverward sides are only of 
earth surmounted with stockades. 
Much to our relief (for we too have 
heard those gory stories of Indian 
horrors) there are guns built in the 
walls and cannons bristling from 
the bastions. Near the walls are 
barracks and storehouses; and in 
the middle of the fort is a dusty 
parade and drill ground. As we 
explore further we discover that 
there is a dark dungeon beneath 
one of the bastions and a powder 
magazine beneath another. This 
fort, we comment, is the strongest 
we have ever seen.
But someone jostles us. Suddenly 
the vision disappears. Where is the 
fort, the parade ground, the proud 
battlements? Where are the In­
dians, the green-coated bilitiamen, 
the scarlet-clad Royal Americans, 
the hunter, the trader, the hardy 
pioneers? Where are they? And 
the mossy banked rivers, the corn­
fields, even Grant’s Hill? Where are 
they? . . . They are gone — gone.
. . . The scurrying throng of be­
spectacled clerks, overalled labor­
ers, chic young shoppers, gaudy for­
eigners pushes us on unthinking. 
Hard pavement is underfoot and all 
about us are tall grey buildings. A 
maze of railroad tracks and shuffling 
trains hides from us the soot cover­
ed rivers. We stare bewildered at 
Dougherty’s Warehouse, The Pennsy 
Railroad freight sheds, the unused 
and descrepit exposition buildings. 
Yes, Fort Pitt is gone — that mag­
nificent Gibralter of the West — 
has crumbled and died as all thing 
must . . . And sadly I wonder — 
has it died in vain?
On The Record . . .
The latest list of smoothies from 
Decca Records includes the follow­
ing records: In the Brunswick Col­
lectors’ Series is Bing Crosby Vol­
ume Two, D-1015, containing: num­
ber 80055—“Where The Blue of The 
Night Meets The Gold of The Day”; 
“A Faded Summer Love”; number 
80056—“Star Dust”; “Dancing in 
The Dark”; number 80057—“Sweet 
and Lovely”; “I Apologize”; num­
ber 80058—“Many Happy Returns 
of The Day”; “At Your Command”
. . . The album is maroon vel- 
vateen and accompanying it is a de­
scriptive booklet written by Carroll 
Carroll and Milt Gabler . . . Bing 
Crosby Volume Two should be hail­
ed with delight by all collectors of 
“Crosbyana” . . . Black Label Re­
lease includes the following selec­
tions: number 1862—Fred Waring 
and His Pennsylvanians’ “Battle 
Hymn of The Republic” and “The 
Time Is Now”. This record illus­
trates Fred’s habit of getting the 
most distinctive arrangements with 
the correct use of every instrument 
and the Glee Club. Also in Black 
Label Release is “Hamp’s Boogie 
Woogie” and “Chop-Chop” with 
Lionel Hampton and His Orchestra.
Entered aa iM»al-eiut matter la the Pittsburgh Peat Office under the Act of March 8, 187». 
Published weekly daring eehool year, except helidaya and examination perioda. 
Subscription Price $1.10 per year.
Editor-in-chief ................................................'....................................... Ernie Lowenstein
Military Editor.............................................................................pfc. Harvey W. Sherman
Business Manager ............................................................................................. Ed Friedman
Managing Editors..............................................................Adeline Herlickf Clara flerron
News Editor................................................................................................... Jerry Brickman
Copy Editor ......................................................................................................... Dottie King
Headline Editor ................................................................................................. Augie Binder
Sports Editor..................................................................................................... Howard Roby
Photography Editor ............................................................................................... Bill Jones

---------------------------------------------------

C. S. EDMAN
PRINTER
6470 Monitor St. HA. 0193
Let's go to
IS AL Y'S
MILK SHAKES 
BIG ICE CREAM COlNriS
KLONDIKES 
TASTY LUNCHES
Three Stores in the College 
District
5808 Forbes Street, Sqnirrel Hill 
3714 Forbes Street, Oakland
MAIN PLANT:
3880 Boulevard of the Alliea
TUESDAY, AUGUST 15, 1944THE CARNEGIE TARTAN
... The Vacuum Cleaner ...
By E. P. H.
Once more the good old dirt column appears, but this time, you lucky 
people, it’s for the last time. Another Techite is biting the dust as he goes 
the way of all masculine flesh. So it’s a fond farewell until duration time, 
when possibly once again we can renew acquaintances.
This week the Inquiring Photographer found some feminine members 
of our campus who also are bidding farewell, but in their case it’s for good. 
Yes, we’re speaking of the graduating Seniors who are about to step out 
into the cold, cruel world. Wishing to inquire as to their future ideal com­
panions, we found that these bits of feminine pulchritude all had approxi­
mately the same basic requirements—a man. We hope that this bit of 
information may be of service to the Engineers of Tech, but we also advise 
that no one worry too much about what any of the girls has to say. (Most 
of them were prejudiced!)
The Question — What is your conception of your future ideal man?
The Place — In and about the Canteen.
Betty Herbert—He has to be in the 
Navy, sorta tall, nice looking, con­
siderate, ambitious, humorous, 
nice-looking, and must want to 
get married. (Doesn’t ask for 
much, does she?) Oh yes, he has 
to do the dishes and scrub the 
floors. (Wow!)
Becky Townsend—Now this isn’t a 
funny situation—he has to love to 
eat rather than do anything else—
(I think she said eat)—sing Beta 
songs, and play the cornet. (When 
asked if any pair of pants would 
do, the following reply was re­
ceived)—Why bother with pants!
Dotty Viehman—I don’t ask for too 
much—just that he be big, tall, 
and wonderful. I like the name 
Scotty—but my man has to be able 
to teach me things and be for­
ward!
Billy Mcllrath—My man must be 
about 6’4”, have blond hair, blue 
eyes, and big feet—size 14 in fact 
— must like art, convertibles, 
dancing, and be willing to be hen­
pecked and jealous. (Also made 
some silly statement about her 
man having little sex—may we 
advise reading James Thurber’s 
treatise—“Is Sex Necessary?”)
Ann Rodgers—My man? Ah yes, 
dark curly hair, blue eyes, intelli­
gent, wonderful sense of humor, 
kind and thoughtful, and must be 
able to get along with people — 
(including his mother-in-law!) He 
also must like to get into situa­
tions and then wiggle out.
Jean Swaney — He’s got to have 
red hair, blue eyes, a wonderful 
wit, a New York accent — be tall 
enough, able to hold his liquor, 
a good dancer, and know exactly 
what I think before I think it— 
(and then know what to do!)
Patsie Weakland—He has to be pro- 
sentable, blond, intelligent, a fair 
dancer, and think that I’m won­
derful. Also must have a good 
physique, a Southern accent, and 
have enough money to keep me.
Maizie Rial—As long as he is a good 
dancer, has ambition, a mind of 
his own, is jealous, understand­
ing, has a winning smile, and 
doesn’t smoke or drink (a Puri­
tan), anything will do. But, he 
must have an understanding 
mother-in-law who will mind her 
own darn business. That’s ve’V^
important.
Helen Robinson — My man must 
definitely not have red hair but 
must like dancing, all sports, music 
and traveling. He must be sin­
cere and convincing, in fact be 
able to talk me into things.
Bernie Long — I ask for very little. 
Just the smooth Latin type, tall 
(6’), dark, and handsome, with a 
voice like Charles Boyer, a good 
line, about 30, very wealthy, real 
sexy, without a mustache, and 
built just right. (My dear girl— 
we all have pipe dreams!)
¡i 1 ¦MHHHI
Alda Dewey—My boy should be tall 
and rugged, and have some other 
interest besides a slide rule — 
(that reminds me — I haven’t 
greased mine lately). He should 
have a very convincing line, but 
still not be afraid of using cave 
man tactics. (Pardon me Madam, 
but I’m looking for a professional 
wrestler!)
Timmy Timberlake — He must be 
about 6’, with brown hair and 
eyes, often dopey (especially 
when he thinks about me), con­
siderate, doesn’t forget birthdays, 
not tight on a date, with a will 
of his own so he can step all over 
me, and must get that sexy look 
when he looks at me.
Just a final bit of corn:
Soldier: “I’ve had a Chinese girl 
on my lap all evening.”
Marine: “That’s nothing. I’ve had 
one on my conscience for over two 
years.”
The connoisseurs say that a girl 
frequently loosens up when she gets 
tight.

---------------------------------------------------

4THÎ. dARNEGIE TARTANTUESDAY, AUGUST 15, 1944
^cd&L ln KkcJù . . .Interesting Useless Knowledge Of 
Campus History of the Cut Revealed
The “Cut” is a part of the campus 
which is held dear in the heart of 
each Tech student. If one is a 
ROTC cadet, he will immediately 
associate it with those long, happy 
hours he had spent developing his 
physique and tan by marching to 
the tune of his friend, the sergeant. 
For all those students athletically 
inclined it may bring to mind the in­
cidents of intra-mural soft ball 
games—striking out in the last in­
ning with three men on base when 
a hit would mean the winning of the 
ball game. In any case, the campus 
queens will testify as to the morale 
raising effect of the merry whistling 
of the fellows, which effect is said 
to be mutual. In fact, the “Cut” 
occupies so high a place in the minds 
of the students that one of the boys 
is quoted as saying that relaxing in 
a bench on the “Cut” on a warm 
summer afternoon is next in his 
favor only to listening attentively 
to the chemistry professor in a com­
fortable chair of the lecture hall. 
(Attention—this quotation should 
be taken only as a nonentity and 
any living person considered to have 
said it should be dead—Psycho­
pathic Censorship Board).
The “Cut” however, has not al­
ways existed as we see it today. In 
fact, before the building of Carnegie 
Tech its present location was trans­
versed by a very deep, rugged 
ravine and a high, ricky hill. After 
the school was built this situation 
became very distressing to the stu­
dents because it was necessary for 
them to walk the long way on Mar­
garet Morrison Street in order to get 
to Forbes Street and the trolley line. 
Their dreams were realized when a 
plan was made to level the hill and 
fill in the ravine, thus making a 
short “Cut” to Forbes Street. How­
ever, the undertaking was large, and 
it was some time before the last 
steam shovel had rolled away, leav­
ing the cut as we see it today.
Traces of the hill and ravine may 
still be seen, Whitfield Hall, a wom­
en’s dormitory, now stands on the 
top of the remaining part of the hill 
(or haven’t you noticed?) The 
football field is evidence of the ra­
vine, although it is itself a partial 
fill-in, the ravine being originally 
much deeper.
So today, while escorting your 
favorite girl (or being escorted by 
your boy friend) to the street-car 
the “Cut” is a part of the campus of 
which you can be proud. Incident­
ally, the campus as a whole was for­
merly devoted to the cultivation of 
cabbages, (what a parallel to the 
present). Till next week, when the 
story of an old mine under the cam­
pus will be told, so long!
Cleeton And Rosenbach 
Occupy New IH Offices
During the past week the second 
floor hall in Industries has been 
cluttered up with concrete, sand, 
lumber, and all the other parapha- 
nalia of the bricklayer and carpen­
ter. Mr. Keck and his staff have 
been constructing a new office for 
Prof. Cleeton and Prof. Rosenbach. 
The office is to be of the latest de­
sign with Venetian blinds and mod­
ern lighting fixtures, and will be 
finished as soon as conditions per­
mit.
Mr. Cleetin, is the newly-ap- 
pointed head of the humanistic-so­
cial studies department.
Oval Goes, Okies Mourn
Students at the University of Ok­
lahoma are lamenting the passing 
of the University’s hallowed “court­
ing grounds.” For many years, a 
strip of ground known as the Oval, 
across the street from the campus 
library, has served as a place where 
students could look at the moon un­
scientifically. University officials 
had long despaired over the reputa­
tion of the Oval and then considered 
many drastic measures for keeping 
students away from it, including 
erecting spotlights to keep it well- 
lighted at night, and erecting signs 
such as “Official Courting Grounds” 
to make students feel self-conscious. 
None of the drastic plans were car­
ried out, but now the passing of the 
Oval has been accomplished by an 
unofficial patrol of the spot by local 
authorities to keep students away 
from it.
Former Tech Students 
Enjoy Their Honeymoon
Dave Brinn and Doris Cohen 
were married on July 30th in New 
York at the Waldorf-Astoria and 
blissfully set off to Chicago for their 
honeymoon, where they became a 
feature story of the Chicago Sun. 
Getting off the tram at the Union 
Station they went first, they say, to 
the Palmer House, where they were 
greeted with a posted sign:
“Sorry, no rooms without confirm­
ed reservation.”
The clerk there could do nothing 
for them, so they went in turn to 
the Sherman, the Stevens, the 
Drake, the Ambassador East and, 
finally, the Edgewater Beach Ho­
tel—where there weren’t any rooms 
available either.
“Why on earth didn’t you make a 
reservation?” they were asked.
“Well you see,” they answered a 
bit embarrassedly, “we’re in love, so 
we didn’t think of that.”
So they spent the night forlornly 
on a bench in the Edgewater Beach 
lobby without any home.
Exchange Colyum
Absenteeism is being condemned 
when it occurs on the labor front. 
It is just as bad when it occurs in 
colleges, for the college student is 
being unfair to himself, his teach­
ers, and those who are footing the 
bills of college. If he is to waste 
away his college years, he might 
as well be on the assembly line in 
some factory. Those who go direct­
ly from high school to work do not 
expect to skip classes, for they 
know that their jobs depend on 
steady attendance in shop or of­
fice. Young men and women who 
think they have sufficient intelli­
gence for higher education could 
well show a comparable sense of re­
sponsibility.
. . . More news of Tech men in 
service ... A recent publicity re­
lease from the Eighth Army Air 
Force Composite Station somewhere 
in England tells of Technical Ser­
geant Raymond R. Balzarine of 
Westmoreland, Pennsylvania and a 
former Tech student who is serving 
as a Turret Maintenance and Arm­
ament Instructor at the Air Division 
Gunnery School. It is his responsi­
bility to teach newly arrived stu­
dents to keep plane turrets in per-
fect condition at all times. With 23 
months in a European theater of op­
eration behind him, he has enough 
practical experience and knowledge 
to accomplish this task and get re­
sults.
Balzarine entered the service in 
December, 1941. He attended Arm-
ament School at Lowrey Field, Col­
orado, and Turrent Maintenance 
School in England.
Sergeant Balzarine is the son of 
Mr. and Mrs. A. Balzarine of Main
RODGERS
DAIRY STORES
MILK SHAKES
Made from Pure Whole Milk for 
only 15c
We Do Not Use Skim Milk.
•
NEAREST STORES LOCATED
------AT------
3905 FORBES STREET
Near Bouquet Street
4619 CENTER AVENUE
Near Craig Street
By Augie Binder 
Street, Westmoreland, Pennsylva­
nia. He was employed by Westing- 
house before entering the Army.
. . . Former Tech student Wil­
liam P. Snyder has just completed 
his Fighter Pilot training at Foster 
Field, Texas. After extensive pur­
suit pilot training, including pre­
cision formation flying, synthetic 
gunnery and navigation he was 
awarded his silver pilot’s wings, and 
commissioned a second lieutenant.
Such Is Life
Yup, the life of a newspaper col­
umnist ain’t what it’s cracked up to 
be. How’d you like to.be faced with 
a blank piece of paper, and not have 
a single printable thought in your 
head. You have to pound out 250 
words about something you hope 
will interest the public, but when 
you get through with your effort, it 
looks as if the Russian army had 
walked through it with their shoes 
off.
The guys who hack out the stuff
for the big dailies must lead a h------
of a life. But they get paid for it, I 
suppose, so it helps feed the baby 
and pay the income taxes. The odd 
thing about newspaper columns, 
though, is that the big dailies buy 
them, not for their prestige, but be­
cause they are cheap. We have all 
heard that a big-time writer has a 
salary ranging into hundreds of dol­
lars a week, but this is due to the 
appearance of his or her column in 
about a hundred papers each day. 
If you figure that the writer makes 
half a grand each week, with one 
hundred subscribers every day, it 
figures out that the poor jerk gets 
only one U. S. Dollar per column 
per paper. If that isn’t cheap, what 
is?
Yup, such is life. A dollar a day. 
A million days, a million dollars, 
but a million days is about three 
hundred years, and who wants to 
wait for three hundred years for 
the draft board to make up its 
mind?
—Illinois Institute of Technology 
“The Technology News”
Fort Pitt is the Place 
to Rent
FORT PITT
TYPEWRITER CO.
ATlantic 8320 
644 LIBERTY AVENUE
