Volume 90, Issue 3Carnegie Mellon University’s Student Newspaper Since 190618 September 1995
Gore rallies students against aid cuts
By JASON TOGYER
; Tartan News Editor
[Ed. Note: Please see related stories,
;page LI.]
Telling students to “get involved in 
the political process,” Vice President A1 
Gore came to town Monday to ask for 
their support in a Democratic fight 
against proposed changes in federal stu­
dent aid programs.
Gore spoke to a crowd of over 5,000 
students gathered on the lawn of the 
University of Pittsburgh’s Cathedral of 
Learning, but his message seemed di­
rected more toward the Republican- 
majority Congress.
“Congress is where the battle is going 
to be fought, and Congress is where it’s 
going to be won,” said Gore.
The rally was sponsored by the stu­
dent governments of Pittsburgh-area
colleges and universities, with help from 
the United States Student Association, 
a lobbying group based in Washington, 
D.C.
Among those present were Gina 
Schuyler, Carnegie Mellon’s student gov­
ernment president. Schuyler said that 
without student aidprograms, she would 
never have been able to afford the 
$24,000 it costs to attend CMU for one 
year.
“I studied hard, and I took the SATs,” 
she said, “but without financial aid, I’d 
be saying, Tinz want fries with that?’ ” 
instead of attending CMU.
Gore’s speech came the same day as 
President Clinton spoke at a similar 
rally at Southern Illinois University. 
The rallies may signal a new emphasis 
on education by the Clinton Administra­
tion.
Federal student aid programs may
take a hit in Congress, as a number of 
programs face severe cuts or extinction. 
Programs that have been threatened 
include the Pell Grant, the Perkins Loan, 
the interest exemption on StaffordLoans, 
and Clinton’s proposed direct lending 
plan, where the government loans money 
directly to students, rather than through 
a bank.
“We need to send a message to Wash­
ington, D.C. that we are not going.to 
take this,” Schuyler told the audience. 
“We can’t lead this country forward with­
out investing in the future, in education, 
and in you.”
Patrice Nicole Walters, student body 
president at Community College of Al­
legheny County, urged students to write 
to their members of Congress.
“It is our duty to remind them that 
while talk is cheap, education is not,” 
Please see GORE, page 5
THE TARTAN
By JASON TOGYER
Tartan News Editor
Inside
.................L6
Living.............................................................LL
Sports...............................................................9
Comics
New comics debut this 
week • see page L6
Sports
Soccer and football win big
• see page 9
Living
Student aid battle is 
on • see page LI
How deep will financial aidcuts go?
Gore supporters jockeyed for position with SEAC demon­
strators at Monday’s rally.
Last Monday’s rally painted a dismal view of the Republican 
Congress’ intentions toward student aid.
But are things as bad as Vice President A1 Gore and other 
speakers made them sound?
“Anything that would constitute a threat to student aid is 
something we have to pay attention to,” said Jamie Rooney, a 
staff member in U.S: Representative Bill Coyne’s (D-Oakland) 
office.
Student aid programs are part of the Labor, Health, and 
Human Services appropriations bill that is currently being 
considered in Congress.
Among changes that rally organizers said were coming are a 
reduction in the number of students eligible for Pell Grants,
Please see CONGRESS, page 3
Vice President AI Gore greets students at Monday’s rally. CMU Student Government 
President Gina Schuyler is at right.
Volume9 0,Ioe, soIe3 I,s3Carun3 g,ne rIimMI,
By SAMEER KARIM
Tartan Assistant News Editor
& YOSEF BIRNBOIM
[ Tartan Junior Staffwriter
By a 22-2 vote, Faculty Senate recommended 
[last week that University President Robert 
I Mehrabian look into all possible options to avoid 
! censoring Carnegie Mellon’s electronic bulletin 
[boards.
The options include reclassifying Andrew 
newsgroups so that they fall under the direction of 
University Libraries. This would make them ex­
empt from state obscenity laws.
Alma Whitten, a Computer Science doctoral stu­
dent and a member of the Coalition for Academic 
Freedom of Expression (CAFE), said, “I’m very 
pleased with the faculty for saying, ‘Wait a minute, 
do we really need to do this at all?’
The move came after the American Civil Liber­
ties Union (ACLU) delivered an eight-page legal 
memorandum to Faculty Senate last November 
saying that the University would.not be liable for 
carrying the newsgroups if they were moved under 
the auspices of the library.
“I think that is part of the role of universities to 
be outposts of intellectual inquiry,” said Whitten, 
“and I don’t think that stops just because you are 
talking about dirty pictures. I don’t think that 
there are topics which should be off limits.”
Pirates sale drags on...
Cyert: CMU, city need team
By YOSEP BIRNBOIM
Tartan Junior Staffwriter
The Pittsburgh Pirates have 
been the home of greats such as 
Roberto Clemente, Willie Star- 
gell, and Barry Bonds.
But as the Pirates’ owners be­
come more desperate to sell the 
team, some people are wondering 
what city the team itself will call 
home.
The team is currently owned by 
local consortium that includes 
six local corporations, three pri­
vate investors, and Carnegie 
¡Mellon University. As negotia­
tions drag on, some people are 
afraid they’ll sell the team to 
someone who moves it out of town.
Even though the presence of 
the Pirates has “no effect” on the 
business that his company does, 
Aluminum Company of America 
(Alcoa) spokesman Jim Posti 
claims that having the Pirates in
town “makes Pittsburgh a better 
place to live and work in.”
“We have a commitment [to 
keeping the Pirates in townl,” 
said Posti.
Former CMU President Rich­
ard Cyert sits on the Pirates’ 
board of directors. He said the 
school intends to reinvest in the 
team, if and when it changes 
owners.
Cyert said he was asked by the 
other owners to keep CMU’s in­
vestment in.
“We think that having a team 
in Pittsburgh helps keep the city 
more profitable and helps [CMU] 
attract faculty,” he said. “We want 
to keep the team.”
Two bids to buy the team have 
already been rejected. John Rigas, 
owner of Adelphia Cable, reached 
an agreement with the Pirates’ 
board in May to buy the team for 
$85.15 million, but Major League 
Baseball turned Rigas down, say-
Last year, Mehrabian set up a committee to look 
into the matter of potentially illegal material on 
Usenet newsgroups carried on Andrew.
The alternative — monitoring all newsgroups — 
wasn’t considered. “No one proposed that the Uni­
versity monitor these bboards; that’s impossible to 
do,” said the chairman of the committee, Associate 
Provost Erwin Steinberg.
When examining the newsgroups to see if the 
University should continue to carry them, Steinberg 
said, the committee asked itself, “Does this 
newsgroup violate the law as we read the law and 
have been advised about the law?”
Ultimately, the committee recommended that 
only seven newsgroups be blocked. Those groups,
in the alt.binaries.pictures.erotica:|: hierarchy, pri­
marily contain explicit images. The committee 
asked Mehrabian not to ban the alt.sex:i: or 
rec.arts.erotica:i: trees, which contain mostly text.
Several individuals have moved to make the 
blocked newsgroups accessible through private 
computers on campus.
Whitten, in making a presentation to the Senate 
on behalf of CAFE, said, “From my perspective we 
have gone from being a University that said we 
have a complete Internet feed... to [one] that says, 
‘We do, unless you talk about this.’ ” Whitten 
compared the loss of these newsgroups to stopping 
controversial speakers from coming to campus.
Please see BBOARDS, page 5
ing he had too little cash.
Washington, D.C. attorney Bart 
Fisher then attempted to close a 
deal, but his offer was rejected by 
the Pirates’ board. Many sus­
pected that Fisher wanted to 
move the team to Washington.
The team is currently negotiat­
ing with Sacramento, Calif, news­
paper heir Kevin McClatchy. 
Among other concessions, 
McClatchy is asking the city to 
build a new baseball-only sta­
dium.
The team has lost millions of 
dollars recently, despite break­
ing attendance records in 1990 
and 1991 and winning division 
titles in 1990,1991, and 1992.
According to Cyert, the team 
has a $60 million debt, and a 
buyer needs to come up with an­
other $25 million in cash in order 
to buy the team.
“If baseball doesn’t get a salary 
Please see PIRATES, page 5
Live, from Morewood Gardens...
Students camped out in the upper lobby of Morewood Gardens Tuesday night, trying to get tickets from 
the Residence Life Office to see Live at Star Lake Amphitheater. For one view of the big give-away, 
please see our editorial, page 6.

---------------------------------------------------

UThe Tartan • Carnegie Mellon University • 18 September 1995
voC, Z...
WE-CBS merger on track
PITTSBURGH, Sept. 13 (DJ) — 
Westinghouse Electric has won the 
Justice Department’s blessing for its 
$5.4 billion purchase of CBS Inc., and 
has finalized financing for the pur­
chase, signing loan agreements with a 
group of 50 banks.
But the merger still faces challenges 
from two religious 
^ ^ \ groups and civil- 
I rights leader JesseV V I Jackson.
It took just over 
one month for the 
company to line up $14.4 billion in 
commitments, well over what it 
needed, despite initial skepticism on 
Wall Street about the Pittsburgh- 
based conglomerate’s heavy debt load.
“We always knew it was a good deal; 
it was just a question of getting every­
one to share our vision with us,” said 
Claudia Morf, Westinghouse’s vice 
president and treasurer.
Westinghouse finished lining up fi­
nancing well in advance of deadlines 
set in the transaction, which was an­
nounced August 1. Company officials 
said they expect to complete the pur­
chase by the end of the year, pending 
approval by the Federal Communica­
tions Commission and by CBS share­
holders.
But the FCC petition still repre­
sents a stumbling, block for 
Westinghouse. In their petition, the 
United Church of Christ and the Cen­
ter for Media Education sought prom­
ises that Westinghouse will show at 
least three hours a week of educa­
tional children’s programming, and 
make five-minute prime-time blocks 
available for free to presidential can­
didates every day in October.
They have also asked the FCC to 
require Westinghouse to sell at least 
three TV stations if the deal goes 
through.
While granting that Westinghouse
“has been for the most part a respon­
sible broadcaster,” the filing criticizes 
Westinghouse stations for not run­
ning enough educational children’s 
programming, for showing such pro­
gramming at inconvenient hours, or 
for listing movies like “Back to the 
Future” and “The Little Mermaid” to 
meet children’s programming goals.
Gil Schwartz, a spokesman for 
Westinghouse, said, “We find it some­
what ironic that children’s program­
ming is the basis of the challenge 
against Westinghouse and CBS, since 
we believe our historical commitments 
place us at the top of the industry.”
The Justice Department made no 
public statement on the CBS deal but 
approved it by letting a deadline pass 
for asking additional questions or 
moving to block it. Approval means 
Justice Department 
lawyers didn’t be­
lieve the combination 
of CBS and West­
inghouse would sub­
stantially lessen 
competition.
The FCC will have to decide whether 
to let Westinghouse keep all of its TV 
stations after acquiring CBS. While 
that would exceed current ownership 
limits, Congress is moving toward re­
laxing those limits.
But FCC Chairman Reed Hundt said 
in an interview last week that, with 
several huge media combinations in 
the works, the investigation “isn’t a 
routine rubber stamping.”
Meanwhile, civil-rights leader Jack­
son, who has been talking with 
Westinghouse representatives about 
potential minority-hiring promises, let 
a Friday deadline pass without filing 
comments with the FCC opposing the 
deal.
Representatives said that Jackson’s 
talks with Westinghouse and CBS are 
continuing.
Oregon will elect senator by mail
SALEM, Ore., Sept. 14 (DJ) — Or­
egon voters will select U.S. Senator 
Bob Packwood’s replacement in the 
nation’s first congressional election to 
be held by mail.
The primary will be held December 
5 and the general election January 30, 
Governor John Kitzhaber said. The 
winner will be sworn in February 2. 
Kitzhaber had the option of calling a 
primary election or allowing the par­
ties to select their nominees, a process 
that would have been faster.
“But ultimately, I believe that in 
this instance, with as much as three 
years remaining in Senator Pack­
wood’s term, the value of giving Or­
egonians the chance to vote in the 
primary election outweighs the [time] 
we would save by not having a pri­
mary,” said Kitzhaber, a Democrat.
Packwood leaves office on October 1.
Oregon has been conducting local 
elections by mail since 1981 ¿ The state’s 
election law allows the secretary of 
state to decide on a case-by-case basis 
whether to hold an election by mail. 
Both Oregon Secretary of State Phil 
Keisling and the governor supported 
it for this election because it would be 
cheaper than setting up polling places.
Ballots will be mailed to registered 
voters about three weeks before the 
primary and general elections.
U.S., China mending fences
WASHINGTON, D.C, Sept. 15 (DJ)
— Strained relations are mending be­
tween the U.S. and China, but unsettled 
questions remain including whether 
presidents Bill Clinton and Jiang Zemin 
will meet this fall, the State Department 
said.
“I think we’ve turned an important 
comer” from last June’s low point, which 
was marked by Chinese outrage over a 
private visit to America by the president 
of Taiwan, department spokesman 
Nicholas Bums said.
“I think we’ve been able to regain some 
stability and predictability in the U.S.- 
China relationship,” Bums said. He ad­
dressed Chinese issues at his regular 
briefing and later at Washington’s For­
eign Press Center.
FBI child-porn sting nets AOL
WASHINGTON, D.C., Sept. 15 (DJ)
— The federal crackdown on on-line 
child pornography has inflamed the de­
bate over whether new laws are needed 
and has confronted America Online Inc. 
with a public-relations dilemma.
Federal agents arrested a dozen people 
nationwide on Wednesday, allegingthey 
used the America Online (AOL) service 
to swap digitized photographs of chil-' 
dren ages 13 and younger engaged in sex 
acts.
The dragnet set off frenzied jockeying 
for sound bites by proponents and oppo­
nents alike in the fight over new curbs to 
block obscenity in cyberspace. Both sides 
hailed the FBI sweep as validation of 
their diametrically opposed arguments.
Sen. James Exon, widely viewed by 
denizens of the Internet as the leading 
enemy of free expression on-line, put out 
a statement saying this week’s arrests 
“illustrate the growing problem of com­
puter pornography.” He called for “more 
stringent laws” to “punish those who 
transmit indecent material over com­
puter networks where children have open 
access.”
But Jerry Berman of the Center for 
Democracy and Technology, which op­
poses new controls, countered that the 
crackdown shows new laws aren’t needed 
at all. “The good news is something can 
be done about this,” said Berman. “We 
hope this will frame the debate and 
convince Congress we don’t need the 
kind of blunderbuss approach advocated 
by Senator Exon.”
That leaves America Online and other 
on-line services smack in the middle. 
They clearly thrive, in part, on the free­
wheeling and communication that flour­
ishes on the Internet and elsewhere. Yet 
they haven’t found a way to help prevent 
the minuscule traffic in illegal materials 
that also takes place.
For the on-line business, the challenge 
will be how to forestall restrictive mea­
sures that trample on the free expres­
sion many customers seem to desire, 
while backing efforts to eliminate child 
pornography and on-line activity that 
endangers children.
The child-porn fallout “could be as 
damaging to [AOL] as bad hamburger 
meat would be to McDonald’s — and 
maybe even more so,” says John Lister 
of the brand-identity firm Lister Butler 
Inc. “I don’t exactly see how they’re go­
ing to correct it.”
Guy Smith, chairman of crisis-man- 
agement firm Smith Worldwide Inc., 
adds, “It’s a very difficult public-rela­
tions situation simply because it casts 
the First Amendment against the poten­
tial abuses of it, particularly with chil­
dren.”
Apple hurt by delays, defects
CUPERTINO, Calif., Sept. 15 (DJ) — 
Apple Computer said a shortage of com­
ponents and related product delays will 
cause fourth-quarter earnings to drop 
“significantly below” analysts’ expecta­
tions.
The company also disclosed it has 
stopped shipping its new top-of-the-line 
portable computer because a battery 
problem caused two machines to burst 
into flames.
In a statement, Apple attributed the 
lowered earnings to persistent short­
ages of key components, delays in in­
creasing production of new products and 
price pressures on older models.
Those factors will affect computer ship­
ments, revenue, and gross profit mar­
gins, the company said, though produc­
tion and shipments of its Macintosh 
machines are expected to increase com­
pared with last year.
Apple’s supply problem is a bitter­
sweet one, because it comes as custom­
ers are clamoring for the new PowerMac 
models that have largely won rave re­
views in the trade media. The company 
has said it seriously underestimated 
1995 demand in its forecasting last year, 
resulting in delays getting key compo­
nents such as microprocessors and CD- 
ROM drives.
Component shortages are particularly 
onerous for Apple, because the Macintosh 
runs mainly on customized parts — un­
like the hordes of personal computers 
running Intel chips and Microsoft soft­
ware that can get their parts from many 
suppliers.
The shortages could hardly have come 
at a worse time. Apple’s share of the 
global PC market has shriveled to about 
eight percent from a 1980s high of 15 
percent and is under siege by PC makers 
equipping their latest models with 
Microsoft’s Windows 95 operating sys­
tem.
Windows 95 is so Mac-like in its look 
and feel that some people say Apple is 
fast losing its distinction. Among corpo­
rate buyers, especially, the Mac is in­
creasingly regarded as passe.
The safety problem with its portable- 
computer line is an additional embar­
rassment.
The computer maker said two 
PowerBook 5300 models being used by 
Apple employees at the company’s head-' 
quarters caught fire.
The cause of the problem hasn’t been 
determined.
Apple said it has ordered a recall of the 
approximately 1,000 PowerBook 530Ù 
models shipped since they were launched 
last month, including “only a few hun­
dred” that have made their way into 
customers’ hands.
The company said customers are ini-' 
tially being given the option of having 
the batteries replaced, but that further 
details on replacements hadn’t yet been 
determined as of yesterday. Apple said 
it expects to resume shipments with the 
new batteries.
Teamster strike plagues GM
ATLANTA, Ga., Sept. 14 (DJ)—With 
a strike by car-hauling truck drivers at' 
Ryder System Inc. entering its second 
week, some car dealers are scrambling 
to get their hands on new vehicles.
General Motors, Ryder’s biggest cus­
tomer, and its dealers have been the 
most vulnerable. Ryder trucks are the 
primary haulers of new GM vehicles. As 
a result of the strike, the No. 1 auto 
maker said it is offering dealers $100 à 
vehicle to pick up new cars and light 
trucks from distribution centers.
Doug McIntyre, general manager ofa 
Chevrolet dealership in suburban At­
lanta, said it may be weeks before six 
new-car customers get their vehicles, 
even though the cars are sitting in a rail 
yard just 20 miles away from his 
dealership.
“It’s real aggravating,” said Mclntyrë, 
“especially when you’ve got customers] 
interested who might go buy from aii- 
other dealer who has the inventory.”
Business at Scott Buick in Pinellas 
Park, Fla., is off 23 percent because of| 
the strike, reports Jonathan Weinberg, 
the general sales manager. This weeld 
he said, the dealership was supposed to 
deliver 141 new Buicks, but they, too, 
are stuck at a rail yard. “I don’t have 141 
people to go get the cars,” he grouses. 
“The strike has got us in a real trick bag. 
Even when they settle, we’re going to 
have cars all over the place. Where are 
we going to store them?”
Inventory troubles will soon worsen 
for GM dealers. Starting today, the 
Teamsters will launch “an aggressive 
but non-violent” leaflet campaign aimed 
at GM dealers who try to pick up ve­
hicles at distribution sites, the Team 
sters said.
“GM is trying to turn car dealers into 
bounty-hunting strike-breakers,” said 
Teamster General President Ron Carey; 
“Instead of wasting time and money;! 
GM should be encouraging Ryder [to] 
settle].” No new talks are planned.
Pour-Day Forecast
MondayPartly sunny; high in 
mld-70s. Clear 
evening, with a low 
in the SOs.
Tuesday
\r
Low pressure center 
in Canada and a cold 
front in Ohio bring 
cooler weather. 
Partly cloudy; high 
70: low near 50.
WednesdayIncreasing cloudi­
ness, chance of 
afternoon and 
evening showers. 
High 65-70; low 45- 
55.
ThursdayChance of showers, 
weather still cool. 
High 55-65, low 45- 
50.
Carnegie Almanac
50 YEARS AGO, October 9, 
1945: Pittsburgh Plate Glass 
Company established a $100,000 
scholarship fund at Carnegie 
Tech, reportedThe Carnegie Tar­
tan.
“H.B. Higgins, president of the 
Pittsburgh Plate Glass Company, 
explained that the company con­
ceived the plan as a method of 
selecting and developing future 
personnel,” reported the paper. 
“Mr. Higgins stated that the com­
pany chose Carnegie Tech be­
cause of his confidence that it is 
one of the leading educational 
institutions of the country and 
because the campus is located in 
Pittsburgh.”
Pittsburgh Plate Glass became 
today’s PPG Industries, a major 
manufacturer of glass and paints.
25 YEARS AGO, September 
17,1970: Thefts on campus were
a hot topic in The Tartan.
“Last summer, the Hunt Li­
brary became the first university 
or college library in the country 
to install a 3M Book detection 
system,” reported one article. 
“Employing security guards was 
also considered, but was aban­
doned as too expensive.”
In another article on the same 
page, the director of Carnegie- 
Mellon Campus Security offered 
some tips on how to avoid being 
the victim of a theft:
“Don’t leave valuables visible 
in cars. If you must leave them, 
take the time to put them into 
your trunk,” he said. “Walk in 
pairs during evening hours on 
campus ... if you must go [to 
Schenley Park at night], be in a 
group.
“Don’t leave purses on desks or 
in lobbies while ‘leaving only for 
a minute.’ Many women are leav-
ing themselves open for this.”
He also advised students that 
were streaking “naked as a jay­
bird” on the Cut at night that 
they stood “a good chance of catch­
ing a cold, especially with winter 
coming.”
10 YEARS AGO, September 
17,1985: Pittsburgh Mayor Rich­
ard Caliguiri, Governor Dick 
Thornburgh, and other dignitar­
ies were on hand for the ground­
breaking ceremonies for the Soft­
ware Engineering Institute on 
Forbes Avenue.
Also on hand was the CMU 
Peace Alliance, which called for 
“books, not bombs,” and “peace, 
not war.”
Meanwhile, Skibo Hall had re­
cently received a much-needed 
overhaul. The entire plumbing 
system was replaced after sew­
age leaks began undermining the
building’s foundation.
Skibo was completely closed for 
four weeks in the summer of 198' 
while the $75,000 project was 
completed.
FIVE YEARS AGO, Septem; 
ber 17, 1990: Carnegie Mellol 
Dining Services announced tha{ 
it was donating surplus food to 
local food bank. CMDS was one o! 
29 donors to a new program called 
Three Rivers Table, a service 
the Greater Pittsburgh Commu­
nity Food Bank in McKeesport.
In other news, in what was dt? 
scribed as an “oversight,” pledge 
night was scheduled for Yom Ki$ 
pur, the Jewish day of atonement,
The Interfraternity Council 
bylaws were amended to prevent 
the accident from happening 
again.
Compiled by 
JASON TOGYEB
From National Weather Service bulletins and other sources
The Tartan will celebrate its 90th 
anniversary in 1996. The theme 
for the celebration is “90 years 
of excellence in print.” Here’s 
the paper’s 1947 flag.
Freshmen You Have a Tra- tious Re-exam Coming Up On October 24.toaI,CM,yvoaeoI
Intramural Football On TÉ» Cut Is "Worth An Hour 0? Your Spectator Time.
OARNEGIE INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY, PITTSBURGH, PA.TUESDAY, OCTOBER 28, lW

---------------------------------------------------

The Tartan • Carnegie Mellon University • 18 September 1995
Federal aid cuts won’t be too severe
Santorum staff member calls Gore rally at Pitt “contrived”
CONGRESS, from page 1
i elimination of the Supplemental Educa­
tional Opportunity Grant (SEOG), and 
the elimination of the in-school interest 
exemption on Stafford Loans.
However, Rooney said that he wasn’t 
able to cite specific legislation, and he 
couldn’t say whether some of the planned 
cuts were drafted legislation or just pro­
posals.
“The Republicans are not sharing with 
the Democrats in Congress what their 
plans are,” said Rooney.
“One budget resolution recommended 
tjiat $10.4 billion be cut from student 
],oan programs,” said Ann Gleason, an­
other Coyne staffer. “This reduction 
would fall primarily on students. There 
were no reductions affecting banks or 
guarantee agencies.”
Mike Mihalke, director of communica­
tions for U.S. Senator Rick Santorum 
(R-Pennsylvania), said that no proposal 
he’s seen has discussed ending any stu­
dent loan program. “More importantly, 
it does not exclude anyone from getting 
loan,” said Mihalke.
Mihalke said that the current Repub­
lican plan would increase Pell Grant 
funding and eligibility, and would main­
tain funding for all other programs, in­
cluding Student Educational Opportu­
nity Grants (SEOG), work-study funds, 
and other grants.
“There are very few changes, but you 
wouldn’t know it by these rallies that 
are being contrived all over the coun­
try,” said Mihalke.
He called last week’s rally “a poorly 
disguised political event.”
Gleason said that the House is cur­
rently considering a plan to make gradu­
ate students pay back the interest on 
those loans they make while in graduate 
school.
.“Some of these options pit graduate 
students against undergraduate stu­
dents,” she said. “It’s a classic strategy 
to keep people fighting amongst them­
selves.”
Mihalke said that Santorum “has con­
cerns” about eliminating the interest 
exemptions on all student loans. That 
doesn’t mean that the senator wouldn’t 
like to see some changes.
“Right now, middle-class taxpayers 
¡subsidize the loans of graduate-school 
students that go on to become lawyers, 
doctors, and other professions that earn 
a-far higher income than the average 
person,” said Mihalke.
Mihalke said that Santorum would 
like to see “some type of graduated scale” 
that determined the size of the interest 
exemption a graduate student would 
receive.
Santorum would also like to see eligi­
bility requirements reviewed, said 
Mihalke. He said that current guide­
lines often reduce or eliminate a student’s 
eligibility for loans if their family has 
money saved.
Coyne is concerned about what Rooney 
described as “serious attacks on a long 
category of social and domestic pro­
grams,” including student aid and Aid to 
Families with Dependent Children.
Mihalke accused Democratic leaders 
and the President of hypocrisy in blam­
ing Republicans for all of the proposals.
“Eliminating the in-school interest 
exemption was originally proposed in a 
report on October 3,1994, by the direc­
tor of the Office of Management and 
Budget,” said Mihalke. “One of Clinton’s 
own Cabinet members proposed elimi­
nating this.”
Mihalke said that there are “certain 
budgetary realities” that Congressional 
leaders have to face, and that’s what 
prompted the current review of student 
aid programs.
“The pie that has been growing — 
partially at the expense of the deficit — 
is now shrinking,” he said. “We need to 
make things more efficient and spend 
less money.”
“There are 11 options being suggested 
by the NEA [the National Education 
Association, a teacher’s union and lob­
bying group] to achieve the $10.4 billion 
reduction,” said Gleason. “None of them 
have been taken into consideration.”
Gleason did not elaborate on these 
options, and a promised NEA fact-sheet 
did not arrive before presstime.
Another program targeted for elimi­
nation is Clinton’s proposed expansion 
of direct lending. Under direct lending, 
the federal government makes loans di­
rectly to students, rather than through 
banks.
The federal government currently 
plans to make $13.8 billion in student 
loans in the next fiscal year. Banks will 
make another $15.3 billion in federally- 
guaranteed loans.
In a recent editorial, the Pittsburgh 
Post-Gazette praised the direct loan pro­
gram, saying it “save[s] the taxpayer 
some money and [is] easier and more 
efficient for the student and the schools.”
That completely contradicts a recent 
Congressional Budget Office study, said 
Mihalke.
“About 40 percent of loans are direct 
lending,” said Mihalke. “The CBO re­
port said that by handing the 40 percent 
over to be done through private lenders, 
we’d save some $1.5 billion over the next 
seven years.”
He calls direct lending “not too good a 
deal.”
“According to the General Accounting 
Office, 104 schools that were fed up with 
the bureaucracy of the direct lending 
program backed out of it,” said Mihalke. 
“The government is known for bureau­
cracy and inefficiency. The Department 
of Education itself acknowledged that 
taking over all student loans would make 
it one of the largest lending institutions 
in the country.
Mihalke accused supporters of direct 
lending programs of favoring “big gov­
ernment.”
“We hear more about welfare reform, 
health care, and tax reform,” he said. 
“We get about 1,200 pieces of mail every 
day, and we’re certainly not deluged 
with people saying, ‘The financial aid 
program is terrible, we have to turn it 
over to big government.’
“If these programs aren’t broke, don’t 
fix them.”
So, will there be drastic changes in 
federal student aid programs in the near 
future?
Rooney said that the House may try to 
slash funding, but the legislation would 
ultimately have to pass muster with the 
Senate.
“You will find, across the board, that 
the Senate is taking a much more mod­
erate approach to things,” said Rooney.
There’s definitely a lot of confusion 
around. “From reading the press reports, 
it seemed like a lot of the students at the 
rally had no idea of what they were 
trying to say,” said Mihalke. “I think if 
you ask most people what they think of 
the current sys­
tem, they’re going 
to say ‘I think it’s 
okay.’ ”
“If you want to 
talk about balanc­
ing the budget, talk 
about holding 
events like this and 
sending the tax­
payers the bill,” he 
said.
New math department head has CMU roots
By KENNETH NAMKUNG
Tartan Junior Staffwriter
In a homecoming of sorts, James 
Greenberg has been named the new 
head of the Mathematics Department.
“It’s true—you can, occasionally, go 
home again,” said Greenberg.
Greenberg started his career at 
Mellon Institute in 1966 as a post­
doctoral fellow and was an assistant 
professor in mathematics for two years 
afterward.
Greenberg, formerly of the Univer­
sity of Maryland at Baltimore County, 
succeeds Bill Williams, who resigned 
recently.
“I was tired of doing it,” said Will­
iams. “I felt I was neglecting my re­
search, and for both reasons, I felt it 
was a good time to stop.” He said that 
he will remain with the department as 
a professor and as a researcher.
Greenberg said he has friends among 
the faculty and staff, some of whom go 
back 30 years. He was classmates with 
Williams in the 1960’s at Brown Uni­
versity, and his advisor at that time 
was Morton Gurtin, who today is a 
member of CMU’s mathematics fac­
ulty.
“They were looking for a depart­
ment head, and it was simply an ap­
pointment that I couldn’t pass up,” 
said Greenberg.
When asked about his future plans 
for the department, Greenberg said it 
was far too early to announce his goals 
for the coming years.
“The mathematics department is 
about to engage in long-range plan­
ning,” he said. “We’re going to look at 
our program from the bottom up ... 
well be asking ourselves, ‘Does this 
make sense?’ ”
Greenberg holds research appoint­
ments and visiting professorships at 
the University of Bordeaux, the Institut 
Nonlineare de Nice, and the Univer­
sity of Nice, studying oscillations in 
hyperbolic systems, extrusion problems 
for polymeric fields, and finite differ­
ence algorithms.
While on the faculty UM-Baltimore 
County, he spent each January in Bor­
deaux and one month each summer in 
the city of Nice for his research, but at 
the moment he was unsure whether 
that would continue. “I feel that with 
the realities of the job, I won’t have the 
same ability to travel that I once did,” 
he said.
Besides Mellon Institute and UM- 
Baltimore County, Greenberg has also 
been a member of the faculty at Case 
Western Reserve University, the Uni­
versity of Buffalo, and Ohio State.
He has authored more than 68 re­
search papers and has held appoint­
ments in the Applied Mathematics Pro­
grams of both the U.S. Department of 
Energy and the National Science Pro­
gram.
Greenberg’s wife, Kristen Larson, is 
on the faculty of the University of Mary­
land School of Medicine. She and their 
two cats will join him in Pittsburgh 
this October.
Corrections/Clarifications...
The Tartan corrects all known errors of fact. If you know of such an error, 
please contact Tartan Editor-in-Chief Lauren Heinz at 268-2111.
Transcendental MeditationThe benefits of Maharishi’s TM, 
sciescientifically documented by 
researchers at Harvard. SRI, Cornell 
and institutions worldwide, include:
• Reduction of stress and blood pressure
• Clearer, more creative thinking
• Enlivening the body’s own healing response
• Having the health of a person 5-15 years younger 
Wed., 9/20,7:30 p.m. & Thurs. 9/21,12 noon, Friends Mtg House (Oakland) 
Thurs. 9/21,7 p.m., Squirrel Hill Bookstore Information, call 521-6000.
Free Lectures This Week
TM is natural, 
enjoyable and easy. 
No change in belief 
or lifestyle is 
required.
Looking to furnish your apartment? 
We have what you need.
You’ll have cash to spare for 
extracurricular activities!
USED HOTEL FURNITURE 
SAVE 50% - 90% everyday
200 N. Braddock st. 
Pittsburgh, PA 15208 
(near intersection of 
Braddock and Penn Aye.) 
(412) 731 - 9856
Hours: 10-5 
Closed Sun & Tues. 
Mastercard & Visa
cl the Jewish Community Center o !' Pittsburgh 
p r e s e n t s t. h e
70 111 Deci La I Series 1995-1996
September 27, 1995 
Pinchas Zukerman, violin
“Technically dazzling and deeply probing.”
- The New York Times 
November 19, 1995
Alicia de Larroeha. piano
“she can do no wrong... ¿»he is a marvel. Her playing has perfect finish."
- The New York Times 
December 12, 1995
Joen Vasquez, viola
“When he comes out to play, he owns the stage."
- Maestro Michael «Stern 
January 21, 1996
Gary Lakes, tenor 
"...An enormous voice of poignant lyric beauty."
- Newsweek 
February 18, 1996 
Palph Kirshbaum, cello 
“...belongs to the highest echelon of todays cellists."
- Los Angeles Times 
March 10, 1996
Leila Josefowicz, violin 
“<She is an incredible musician at any age.”
- The Philadelphia Inquirer 
March 26, 1996
Andras Schiff, piano 
“...an ideal pianist - warm, witty, and cultivated."
- The New Yorker
(Subcribe now - good seats still available. No student rales available on single tickets. 
Call 521 - 8010 (Telephone orders welcome at no extra cnarge).

---------------------------------------------------

Wherework at theSwiss BankCorporation?
AT YOUR PEAK. At Swiss Bank Corporation, you’ll rise
to the challenge and accept responsibility as quickly as your talents 
and efforts will allow.
With assets of $132 billion, an impressive client base and the recent 
acquisition of one of the world’s premier investment banking institu­
tions, S.G. Warburg, we are leveraging our strength to become the 
global investment banking leader of the next century. And technology 
is central to our competitive advantage in the global marketplace.
SBC technologies produce state-of-the-art software solutions that 
allow investment bankers, traders, portfolio managers and marketing 
teams to analyze vast amounts of real-time information. This tech­
nology is also used in developing customer-driven financial engineer­
ing solutions, complex mathematical models and leading edge sales 
and trading applications. Using new and emerging technology, our 
Applications Developers create and refine models that help traders 
and marketing teams analyze global financial markets.
We believe that the strategic application of technology is essential to 
our success and are seeking individuals who will help us continue 
our technological leadership in the financial industry. If you are ener­
getic, confident and eager for responsibility, have the superior com­
munication skills to work successfully with clients throughout the 
organization as well as members of your team, we -invite you to 
attend our Campus Presentation:
Thursday, September 21st ¦ 7PM-9PM 
Student Center, Room 208
If you are excited by the possibilities of reaching new heights of success, 
but cannot attend this presentation, please forward your resume to: 
Human Resources, Swiss Bank Corporation, P.O. Box 395, Church 
Street Station, NY, NY 10008. E-mail: bob_dentice@il.us.swissbank.com 
An Equal Opportunity Employer.
While the operations of Swiss Bank Corporation and S.G. Warburg 
have been successfully integrated in most parts of the world, in the 
U.S., the Swiss Bank Corporation will be fully integrated with S.G. 
Warburg upon Federal Reserve Board approval.
Swiss Bank Corporation

---------------------------------------------------

The Tartan • Carnegie Mellon University • 18 September 19955
Senate wants groups to stay on-line
BBOARDS, from page 1
Whitten presented various so­
lutions that would allow the 
University to curb its liability 
while not censoring the bboards. 
Stanford, she said, treats 
bboards as libraries, exempting 
them from censorshiplaws, and 
Massachusetts Institute of 
Technology put the bboards 
under the control of a student 
group, saying that the student 
group is not monitored by the 
university.
University Librarian Charles 
Lowry said, “Fundamentally, li­
brary collection and develop­
ment [is done] to support the 
educational, instructional, and 
research mission of the Univer­
sity ... I don’t think that any of 
the bulletin boards fit this fun-
damental purpose of the 
library’s operation.”
Lowry stated that he did not 
recommend the library alterna­
tive.
“I think that the stronger is­
sue here is not a matter of cen­
sorship or how you are going to 
view guidelines, but the legal 
status of inter-networking and 
the sources of information here 
at Carnegie Mellon,” said John 
Howard, an engineering and 
public policy doctoral student. 
“We are in an area where the 
law is not well established at 
this point, and the legal prece­
dents are not well established.”
The vote to ask Mehrabian to 
look into further possibilities 
was led by Steven Brockmann 
from the Modem Languages de­
partment. Tm reluctant to place a vote, if we are going to censor something here, unless it is de­termined that we have a legal obligation to do so,” he said, ask­ing Senate to advise the presi­dent to consider all available 
legal options.
[For information on how to 
read banned newsgroups, access 
the SCS web-site using Netscape 
or Mosaic, at http:! f
www.cs.cmu.edu I afs I cs I usr I 
alma / web / cafe.html.
For more information, there is 
a home page specifically devoted 
to the issue of censorship. Access 
CMU’s contributed server at 
http : f ¡www . con.tr ib. 
andrew.cmu.edu and then fol­
low the link to Usenet Censor­
ship.]
CMU may reinvest in Pirates
PIRATES, from page 1
cap and revenue sharing, it will be very hard for 
any small market team to survive,” said Cyert. The 
team’s success meant that its star players de­
manded higher salaries, and the debt kept grow­
ing.
In order to compensate for this, the Pirates went 
through a fire sale, and stars like Barry Bonds, 
Bobby Bonilla, Doug Drabek, and Andy Van Slyke 
left the team.
As the stars left, the team’s fortunes declined, 
causing a loss of attendance, and making the debt 
even bigger. The current owners bought the team 
in tfye mid-1980s when then-owner Dan Galbreath 
announced that he could no longer afford to sup­
port it.
“We were a conduit to get the Pirates to stay in 
Pittsburgh,” said Cyert. He said the University 
didn’t really put up any of its own money when it 
stepped in to help the team.
“The money was given [to CMU] by two groups, 
for a total of about $1.75 million dollars,” said 
Cyert. The money was given by anoymous donors
to Cyert to invest in the Pirates. CMU owns a little 
less than one tenth of the team.
Alcoa’s Posti said that his company holds about 
a $2 million stake in the team.
In addition to CMU and Alcoa, USX, PPG, 
Westinghouse, Mellon Bank, and PNC own part of 
the team. The private investors are Gene Litman, 
Harvey Walken, and John McConnell.
Mark Pollock of Pittsburgh Mayor Tom Murphy’s 
office said, “We’re doing all we can to negotiate 
with any perspective owner, to ensure that the 
team will be here at least five more years.” 
Pollock said that the five year timespan will give 
time for the labor situation to be resolved, and, 
hopefully, revenue sharing among major-league 
teams to be implemented.
Since a revenue sharing plan and a salary cap 
would distribute the wealth of large market teams 
among the small market teams, Pollock said that 
the “impact on the payroll will affect the availabil­
ity of players.”
The issue of a new ballpark will also need to be 
addressed, said Pollock.
Gore asks students to get involved in federal aid fight
GORE, from page 1
said Walters. “Do you know who your 
elected representatives are? If not, then 
find out. We need to lobby, and lobby 
hard. Most of all, we need to vote.”
The rally had a camival-like atmo­
sphere at times. Rock music, including 
Gore’s adopted theme, “You Can Call Me 
Al/’ blared from huge speakers near the 
stage. A juggler walked through the 
crowd. Carnegie Mellon’s Kiltie Band 
and Pitt’s Panther Marching Band took 
turns playing their fight songs.
Besides Pitt, CMU, and CCAC, large 
contingents were on hand from 
Duquesne, Robert Morris, Carlow, 
Chatham, LaRoche, and Point Park. Also 
in attendance was one lone student from 
Temple University in Philadelphia. 
Gore’s mention of each college brought 
roars of approval from the crowd.
The show of unity was only briefly 
disrupted when a group from Penn State 
was introduced — to a chorus of boos 
from the Pitt faithful. “I only have one 
thing to say to you,” said Gore. “Why 
aren’t you in class?”
Gore attempted to keep the mood light 
with a series of one-liners poking fun at
his “stiff” image. “Every time I hear a 
new one I say the same thing,” he said. 
‘“Very funny, Tipper’” (a reference to his 
wife).
But his attempts to drop Pittsburgh 
names fell short, especially when he
“Our ability to compete in the 
world depends on how well we can 
equip our students. ”
— Vice President Al Gore
mispronounced the name of Pitt’s in­
terim chancellor, MarkNordenberg, and 
misquoted Penguins’ announcer Mike 
Lange.
Not everyone was impressed with 
Gore’s rhetoric. About 50 vocal protest­
ers from the Student Environmental 
Action Coalition (SEAC) came to remind 
Gore of his 1992 campaign promise to 
stop the Waste Technologies Industries 
(WTI) incinerator in East Liverpool, Ohio 
from opening.
“We’re here today to let people know 
that Al Gore made a promise to shut 
down WTI,” said SEAC organizer Josh 
Knauer, a 1995 CMU graduate. “He 
comes back here and expects students to 
believe his prom-
_________________ ises,butweneed
to be aware of the 
messages behind 
those promises.” 
Gore began 
one sentence, 
“The last time I 
was in Pitts­
burgh...”
^“You lied!” an­
swered a group 
of SEAC demonstrators.
Knauer claimed that Gore’s staff had 
limited SEAC’s access, keeping the sign- 
waving protesters some distance from 
the podium. “They’re making it very 
difficult,” said Knauer.
Gore spokesperson Sally Stohler dis­
agreed. “A representative [of the vice 
president] met with the protesters to 
hear their concerns,” said Stohler. “We 
gave them tickets [to come up front], and 
they can come in. They chose not to.”
Gore used the rally as an opportunity 
to do a little earjy campaigning for 
Clinton, asking how members of Con­
gress could slash student aid while ask­
ing for “tax cuts for the wealthy.” 
“Some how, they feel that doesn’t have 
anything to do with the budget,” he said.
Gore told students to remember 
Clinton’s record when they voted, say­
ing that the President “wants to balance 
the budget in the right way.”
“An investment in higher education is 
an investment in America’s future,” Gore 
said. “Our ability to compete in the world 
depends on how well we can equip our 
students. But our ability to work to­
gether as a team is now in jeopardy 
because of ideological extremism in the 
minds and hearts of members of Con­
gress. Have they been listening to you 
and your parents?”
Gore introduced several political al­
lies, including local U.S. Representa­
tives Bill Coyne (D-Oakland), Mike 
Doyle (D-Swissvale), and Frank Mas­
cara (D-Washington), and his message 
to Republicans was clear:
“You’ve miscalculated,” he said, “and 
we’ll fight you every step of the way.”
Buying or selling? 
The best way to 
reach Carnegie 
Mellon is through 
an ad in...
THE TARTAN
Carnegie Melton’s Student 
Newspaper Since 1906.
For information, call 268-2111.
We think you’ll Find our career options 
a little more inviting.
Crystal Semiconductor, based in Austin, designs mixed-signal integrated circuits, specializing in SMARTAnalog™ 
technology. Crystal recruiters will be at Carnegie Mellon to meet top (GPA 3.5+] EE and computer science grads-to-be 
at the Technical Opportunities Conference Career Fair at the GYM Thursday, September 21, from 1 0:00-4:00pm. We II 
be back to conduct interviews, preferably by MM K Mlm m w
appointment, on October 3 & 4. We'll also take RKPKKiJMBMM MtMMMM0 
resumes by fax, e-mail or snail mail (U.S. Postal ^ C//7X/S l—OQIC COmpdiiy 
Service). Find oul ¡ust what your options are.your Future
Crystal College Recruiting P.JD. Box 17847 Austin, TX 78760 
fax (512) 445-4379 crystlhr@crystal..cirrus.com
I1 R i N ci p I. !•: ss o r \ i) . !•: i i . i-: .w L 6 i v n g L S i v 6 po
BEFORE TRUSTING TOUR FUTURE 
TO ANY COMPANY, ASK FOR 
SOME LETTERS OF REFERENCE.
Y
ou put more than just your savings into 
a retirement company. You put in 
your trust and hopes for the future, too. So 
before you choose one, ask some questions. 
How stable is the company? How solid are 
its investments? How sound is its overall 
financial health?
A good place to start looking for answers 
is in the ratings of independent analysts. 
Four companies, all widely recognized 
resources for finding out how strong a 
financial services company really is, gave 
TIAA their top grade.
IN THE FINAL ANALYSIS, TIAA 
IS LETTER PERFECT.
TIAA received A++ (Superior) from A.M. 
Best Co., AAA from Duff & Phelps Credit 
Rating Co., Aaa from Moody's Investors 
Service and AAA from Standard & Poor's. 
These ratings reflect TIAA’s stability, sound 
investments, claims-paying ability and over­
all financial strength. (These are ratings of
Ensuring the future 
for those who shape it.su
insurance companies only, so they do not 
apply to CREF.)
And TLAA-which, backed by the company’s 
claims-paying ability, offers a guaranteed rate 
of return and the opportunity for dividends—is 
one of a handful of insurance companies nation­
wide that currently hold these highest marks.
CREE FOUR MORE LETTERS EVERYONE SHOULD KNOW.
For further growth potential and diversi­
fication, there's the CREF variable annuity, 
with seven different investment accounts to 
give you the flexibility you want as you save 
for the future*
Together, TIAA and CREF form the worlds 
largest private retirement system based 
on assets under management, with over 
$145 billion in assets and more than 75 
years of experience serving the education 
community. For over a million and a half 
people nationwide, the only letters to 
remember are TIAA-CREF.
•Not all account» are available under the basic retirement pia: 
Retirement Annuitie» (SRAs). CREF certificate
s at all institution!. They are. however, all available Tor TIAA'CREF Supplemental
i are distributed by TIAA-CREF Individual & Institutional Services.

---------------------------------------------------

FORUM
Carnegie Mellon University18 September 1995
IM facilities do not 
reflect high ranking
GSIA’s undergraduate depart­
ment of Industrial Management was 
recently ranked third among com­
parable business programs. While 
this is commendable and certainly 
good news for the department, the 
announcement came as a surprise 
to Industrial Management students 
due to the inadequate and frankly 
sub-standard facilities allotted to 
the IM department.
The IM department, in many re­
spects, deserves its high rank. It 
has shown steady growth in recent 
years in both student body size and 
in the number of programs offered 
— there are now five tracks as op­
posed to the former three. In addi­
tion, the IM faculty strives to bring 
real-world experience and knowl­
edge into the classroom—textbooks 
and problem sets are secondary to 
discussions and intensive project 
work. Very often, IM classes are 
taught by the same professors that 
teach in the GSIA.
The credits of the IM department 
continue, and as the department 
grows in size, programs, and pres­
tige, the benefits and demands on 
its students also continue to grow. 
However, the facilities for the IM 
department have not yet begun to 
reflect any growth, particularly in 
its need for a computer cluster.
Course work for IM students fo­
cuses on team efforts to achieve 
specific professional goals. The In­
dustrial Management program, 
which involves several courses 
based on computer-simulation and 
team presentations, culminates in 
Management Game, a course where 
seniors are challenged to manage 
and generate profits in a simulated 
competitive atmosphere. All of these 
simulations require extensive use 
of electronic media and computers, 
none of which are provided by the 
department or the GSIA. GSIA 
maintains a number of Macintosh 
and PC clusters but they are appor­
tioned strictly for graduate-student 
use with few exceptions.
Other IM classes pose the same 
computer needs, and in many cases, 
Computing Services’ clusters can­
not meet these needs. IM’s market-
Pittsburgh Horizons’ 
Live tickets rock!
Students on this campus don’t 
get out much, it is said. Therefore 
it is good to see that an organiza­
tion, namely Pittsburgh Horizons, 
is trying hard to put some action in 
their lives.
At around midnight last Tues­
day, dozens of hearty and die-hard 
Live fans lined up to purchase about 
40 tickets to see the band at Star 
Lake Amphitheater. These tickets 
— considerably discounted and 
complete with a ride to the venue 
by bus — officially went on sale at 
8 am Wednesday morning. This 
quality display of enthusiasm was 
inspirational considering there 
were no brawls when the tickets 
finally went on sale. In fact, a small 
party started in the Morewood 
courtyard that lasted into the wee 
hours of the morning. The tickets, 
amazingly, sold out in mere min­
utes. Without this opportunity, 
many cash-strapped students 
would have to find their own trans­
portation and pay the high prices 
' for tickets and parking.
Kudos go to the campus group, 
Pittsburgh Horizons, that spon­
sored this event. It is important for 
outside events, like the Live con­
cert, to be made available to the 
campus community, because 
watching the food at Highlander
ITS Á WoNDEKTtiAT OAU'S . 
\M DEPARTMENT MAPE 
'io? Pleaa sGOPla MKiiotJ
ing classes include a competitive 
simulation that utilizes PC-based 
software. Each group in the class 
must purchase the software, and 
then hunt down one of the few PC’s 
on campus. Electronic Print and 
New Media Production, another IM 
course, uses MacroMedia Director 
and Adobe Photoshop extensively. 
Although Photoshop is generally 
available across campus, it requires 
extensive memory to operate, which 
many cluster machines simply do 
not have. As for Director, the in­
structor had to lobby extensively to 
have 30 key-served copies licensed 
for his class to use.
These needs clearly illustrate the 
need for a private, multi-platform, 
IM cluster, a resource that the third- 
ranking undergraduate business 
school in America surely deserves.
A lack of a cluster is not the only 
inadequacy in the IM department. 
The “IM department” consists of a 
small hallway located in the back 
portion of the “old GSIA” building. 
The advising center consists of a 
small office containing three desks, 
and a sign on the door which limits 
entrance to the office to two stu­
dents at a time. Last year’s redeco­
ration of the offices (funded by an 
alumni donation) greatly improved 
the appearance of the department 
and its lounge, but not its size.
The students of the Industrial 
Management department need ad­
ditional facilities. These students 
have good reason to question the 
uses of their tuition dollars, since 
facilities do not reflect the amount 
paid. IM students pay the same 
tuition as CIT students (coinciden­
tally, another third-ranking college) 
and do not have nearly the resources 
or facilities as the CIT.
Carnegie Mellon and GSIA must 
consider the position of IM in the 
context of recent rankings. The #3 
Undergraduate Business School 
should have the proper facilities 
and resources to maintain and im­
prove the already excellent program 
they have. We implore the Carnegie 
Mellon Administration and the 
GSIA to demonstrate the value with 
which they hold the Industrial Man-
Letters to the Editor
ISB3
Student explains: interaction, 
cultural unity are keys to Islam
Editor:
In her article on cultural organizations,
Susan Watson misclassifies the Muslim 
Students Association (MSA) as one.
In fact, the local and foreign cultures, 
ethnicities, and languages represented 
within the MSA are diverse and their coop­
eration as one unit is a model of the “interaction” Watson finds 
. lacking “among different groups.”
The common denominator is Islam, which for some of our
Letter to the Editor
However, Islam, meaning peace, projects itself as neither.
Its self-definition is a natural way of life meant for all 
creation in willing submission to the self-evident and just 
One God. This levels all differences.
Islam revolts against the oppressive icons of race and 
synthesized philosophies — things that detract from “peace 
and hope.”
Indeed, history shows that classical Islam founded neither 
a theocracy nor a nation-state but a fiercely iconoclastic 
universal civilization.
Ahmed Biyabani 
Doctoral Candidate
members is purely cultural and for others ritually religious. ECEColumnist recalls crazy summer
just isn’t cutting it anymore. Spon­
sored by Residence Life and led by 
Brian Greenburg, the campus-run 
group Pittsburgh Horizons seems 
to have the right idea about what 
the students want to see: interest­
ing and exciting activities off-cam­
pus, away from the safe enclave of 
the Cut and the Student Center. 
With the rash of disinterest and 
apathy on campus that has sur­
faced in the past years, it is impor­
tant that the overworked and un­
der-rested have some outlet for their 
groove-making.
Hopefully, the same sorts of events 
will be sponsored in the future, giv­
ing the student-body a well earned 
respite and a chance to shake their 
money-makers. Possibly theater 
outings, political speeches, muse­
ums, and other places of interest 
could be added this year, to supple­
ment the already strong start that 
Pittsburgh Horizons has exhibited. 
People need to get out more, and 
Pittsburgh Horizons is helping 
them.
The actions of Pittsburgh Hori­
zons are a positive model for the 
other groups on campus, the swift­
ness is with which is expedited the 
sale are a wonder on this tradition­
ally bureaucratic campus. Kudos, 
Pittsburgh Horizons, kudos!
’’’’’’’’’’’’’’’’’’’’’’’Tom Harper
I find this hard to believe, sometimes, 
but at some points during the summer I 
wished that the summer would just get 
over with and I could go back to my 
normal routine: getting up in the morn­
ing, going to class in some kind of haze 
from procrastinating on homework, and 
collapsing onto my bed when the day 
was done. Well, I got my wish. Summer 
is over.
Whenever I tell anyone from out of 
state that I’m from Pennsylvania, people 
begin to go on and on about two things: 
the weather and the roads. I know this 
summer was hot. However, here we had 
one long hot spell of about 25,90-degr6e 
days.
Then there are the roads. Yes, our 
roads are bumpy. Yes, a whole section of 
the Pennsylvania Turnpike buckled be­
cause of the heat. I am not responsible. 
Call PennDOT, though I’m sure that 
they’ll ignore you like they do all our 
other taxpayers.
With that aside, some parts of the 
summer I actually enjoyed. Some other 
parts, however, were a complete bust. 
Speaking of busts, one of the things I felt 
inclined to do over the summer is visit 
the places I usually never go during the 
school year. So my first visit was to CFA.
You’d think CFA could be a museum 
unto itself. What really caught my at­
tention were the gigantic statues and 
columns that framed the Dean’s office. 
Now THAT’S how I want my office door 
to look like. I wonder what they have 
inside — “David”? “The Thinker”? Judg­
ing by our tuition, there’s probably a 
whole stash in there. I’ll have to find out 
sometime.
I also went into Hamerschlag Hall, 
another hall I don’t frequent, since I’m 
not an engineer. After traversing some 
areas and possibly setting off some secu­
rity alarms, I sat down on the floor on 
the staircase with the window overlook­
ing the Carnegie’s parking lot. I noticed 
at the top of the window there is a light 
bulb. I sat there for about half an hour 
philosophizing about the light bulb’s 
purpose. I wondered if it still worked. I 
also wondered how many ECE students 
it would take to change it.
Summer didn’t actually begin ¡until'I 
moved into the Sigma Tau Gamma 
house. They’re a swell bunch of guys. 
The only problem when I moved in was 
that I woke up at 8 am, and since I had 
no wheeled vehicles to move with,, I 
carried everything from my room on the 
second floor of Donner to the Margaret 
Morrison Apartments. This, needless jbo 
say, was a lot of stuff, including my 
computer with metal case, and my re­
frigerator. Sooner or later I’m going to 
have to weigh all this stuff and see just 
how much I moved. When we moved out 
of the old house into the new house, I had 
the benefit of wheeled vehicles, but the 
entire process took me over eight hours. 
I also had to deal with the smell from the 
fertilizer the proverbial “they” spread 
out all over the intramural field. Plus, 
each time I moved, my room was on the 
top floor. Good to know I got some exer­
cise in.
I spent most of my summer working in 
the E&S Library. It’s an okay place to 
work, but when I’m at the desk I often 
got bombarded with stupid questions 
such as “Where are your math books?” 
and things like that. People, IT’S A LI­
BRARY. USE THE CARD CATALOG. 
One day someone asked me, “I know this 
might sound like a stupid question, but 
do you have any books on mechanical 
engineering?” Let’s see here... these are 
people that have gotten upwards of 1200 
on their SATs, yet he comes into the 
Engineering and Science Library of one 
of the most prestigious engineering 
schools in the world wondering if we 
have books on mechanical engineering.
Is this a good sign, President 
Mehrabian?
Moving from one seemingly stupid 
topic to a really stupid topic, let me tell 
everybody out there that I like cartoons. 
The only thing I really didn’t like about 
cartoons this summer is that they were 
inundated every commercial break by 
commercials for the Power Rangers 
movie. One spot said that “they have to 
rediscover the power of the ninja.” Okay 
... we can easily compare the Power 
Rangers and ninjas. Ninjas wear certain 
colors so as not to be seen. The Power 
Rangers wear all the colors of the freak­
ing rainbow. Ninjas are trained to be 
silent. The Power Rangers leap onto the 
scene with klaxons and bad repetitive 
rock music. Ninjas are trained to kill. 
The Power Rangers are trained to beat 
up mindless humanoid husks. They also 
need giant robots to defeat any enemy, 
Ninj as use a variety of deadly weaponry: 
The best weapon the Power Rangers 
have is speeded-up film.
However, stopping at various web sites 
and watching cable TV at Sig Tau 
brought back a lot of fond memories — 
the memories of ‘80s television. It was 
too bad that I discovered USA’s two 
straight hours of “Knight Rider” on my 
last day there. But it all brought back 
fun memories almost anybody my age 
can share. Back when at school we’d 
have in-depth discussions of ‘The A- 
team” and “The Dukes of Hazzard.” Now 
these were two shows that pioneered the 
effect of “if two cars hit each other, they 
don’t crash.” One goes over the other at 
a forty-five degree angle and lands on its 
rooftop. Also it brings back memories of 
when, as a family, me, my brother, my 
mom, and my dad would watch “The 
Incredible Hulk” with the late, great Bill 
Bixby.
What really bugged me this year were 
the pre-college people. They were every­
where. And when they got in a computer 
cluster they did all sorts of research 
programs and acted all big and impor­
tant. One night in the library I had to 
quiet down a bunch of them who thought 
they could yell and scream. One out of 
that same bunch tried to take books out 
of the library without checking them 
out, and acted all innocent when our 
security system caught her.
It got too annoying after a while so I 
went home for a bit to watch Batman 
Forever, Apollo 13, and later on Mortal 
Kombat. These movies kicked major 
league butt. Another neat thing I did 
this summer was partake in a small 
net.gatheringVirtua Fighter 2 Competi­
tion at Monroeville Mall. These people
were good. Often I was left wondering 
“What the hell did I do wrong?” But 
since then I’ve gotten a bit better. If 
anyone wants to challenge me I’m the 
guy in the black hat probably playing as 
Jeffry.
Also this summer I mustered up 
enough courage to watch MTV. I even 
managed to catch “Singled Out.” That 
pretty much says it all. One night I 
watched it and the lucky couple who 
couldn’t keep their hands off one an­
other won dinner and a trip to Johnny 
Depp’s Viper Room. Oh, boy. The next 
night the lucky couple who also couldn’t 
keep their hands off one another won a 
complete tour of about 20 places where 
different celebrities died. Now, if I was 
in the first couple, I’d feel cheated. The 
others get to go to twenty different 
celebrity death sites, and I only would’ve 
gotten to go to one.
And finally, this hot summer helped 
me make a list of things that young, 
lonely, single guys really shouldn’t do 
lest longing, loneliness, and sheer jeal­
ousy overtake them: don’t go to a college j 
campus, don’t go downtown, don’t go to i 
a shopping mall, don’t go to a cheerlead- i 
ers’ car wash, don’t go outside, don’t | 
watch MTV, don’t watch Species, don’t j 
watch the bad “erotic thrillers” on HBO 
at 3 am, don’t watch TV, don’t go looking 
for all those oogy web sites that Martin 
Rimm says make up most of the net, 
don’t rent from the “So Bad They’re 
Good” row in between the new releases 
at Blockbuster, don’t strike up a conver­
sation with anyone that first asks you 
up front, “Do you have a girlfriend? Is 
she cute? Is she bi?” (though it’s a judg­
ment call on that one), and, finally, don’t 
EVER visit the Quad Saturday or Sun­
day morning.
Who knows what you might see or 
hear or step on?
With my ranting all said and done, I’d 
just like to say that it’s great to be back, 
great to have a new major, great to have 
a new mindset about things, and great 
to not have to sweat. I vowed to take 15- 
211 and get through that maze program.
I want to write the biggest column yet. (I 
think I did already.) I want to get that 
internship next summer and spend all 
the money on some huge extremely tech­
nical gadget that I won’t use after a few 
days. I want to eat at the local Subway 
twice a day, and read the Weekly World 
News so I can see if they resurrected the 
recently slain Bigfoot and captured the 
Bat Boy.
The only thing wrong now is that 
everybody is getting colds and having 
their seasonal allergies. Good thing I 
rediscovered white grape juice — a 
bottle of it gives someone 150 percent 
of the day’s allowance of vitamin C. I 
haven’t sniffled yet. But I was almost 
once hit by a couple crazy 
rollerbladers — which is also some­
thing the lonely single guy should not 
do during the summer. Especially one 
with clumsy feet.
Tom Harper, technical writing major 
and physics minor, is probably in some 
sort of waking-up haze right now and 
will probably need sedatives before the 
day is done. If anyone sees him without a 
sneer on his face, just pretend it’s still 
him.

---------------------------------------------------

The Tartan • Carnegie Mellon University • 18 September 19957
Vice president’s message fails with students
Jame^tepanek
As we all should know, Vice 
President A1 Gore visited Pitts­
burgh this past Monday. His goal 
was to rouse up opposition to pro­
posed Republican cuts in govern­
ment guaranteed student loans. 
There was a big hoopla and lots of 
students went out and protested 
the Evil Republican cuts.
Of course it was, as per what I 
expect from Clinton etal., a bunch 
• of lies. What was at stake? Well,
> to listen to what these people 
; have to say, the whole future of 
\ student loans was on the chop­
ping block, and no one will be 
, able to go to college if the Repub­
licans have their way. An article 
I read said that the student orga­
nizers of the rally claim that $11 
’ billion or so in loans is in ques­
tion. Clinton claims that feder­
ally guaranteed loans would save 
taxpayers $5.2 billion. Are there 
any studies or actual empirical 
evidence to back this up? Nope, 
sorry, it’s all bunk.
If you took the spin off this rally 
that they meant you to get, you’d 
think your loans were at risk and 
that you had no future in college. 
I can assure you that nothing is 
further from the truth. At present 
the vast majority of student loans 
are privately-furnished and guar­
anteed. This is how it has always 
been. There are a limited number 
of government-guaranteed loans 
out there under a pilot program 
started by Clinton. This is not 
even a noticeable percentage of 
the student population. What the 
Republicans want to do is kill 
this program and have people 
continue to get private loans.
I called the office of John
Kasich, the chairman of the House 
Budget Committee. I talked to 
his press secretary, Bruce 
Cuthbertson. He was kind enough 
to clear up what the general press 
reports had managed to obfus­
cate. The Republicans wish to 
stop the federally-guaranteed 
loans. This is to counter Clinton’s 
aim, which is to expand the pro­
gram to eliminate private lend­
ing. Two surveys, one by the Con­
gressional Research Service, and 
another by the Congressional 
Budget Office, have shown that 
the government loan program 
would lose money (~$1.5 billion a 
year).
This is not just a partisan stance 
— one of the major opponents of 
the federally-guaranteed loan 
program is Bart Gordon, a Demo­
crat from Tennessee. The facts 
that I received fly directly in the 
face of Clinton’s claims which are
unsupported. This sounds to me 
like a bald-faced White House lie 
that news services didn’t bother 
to investigate.
The simple truth of the matter 
is that having the government 
guarantee the loans would make 
collection of them more unlikely. 
I guess if you’re looking to default 
on the loans, then the govern­
ment plan might be tempting, 
but otherwise it just won’t help 
you.
Now the student protesters all 
managed to get worked up over a 
program which is being cut be­
fore it has even come about—one 
which would only be a continuing 
fiscal loss for the government and 
offer nothing new in the way of 
services for people attending col­
lege.
This program is just another 
attempt by the Clintons to put 
even more people into the posi­
tion of relying on the government. 
The Republicans have even as­
sured people that there would be 
no cuts in such student aid as the 
Pell grants; the axes are just 
aimed at the federal loans.
One of the student protesters, 
in a fit of indignation (feigned, I 
hope), claimed that if the pro­
gram was cut, she would be serv­
ing fries. I would have to say that 
any student who needs the gov­
ernment to give them a loan, when 
there is an abundance of private 
providers out there, probably 
should be working at McDonalds. 
This is emblematic of the kind of 
nonsense we’ve been hearingfrom 
liberals ever since Republicans 
began to finally pare down the 
government.
James Stepanek is a PhD stu­
dent in MSE. He welcomes any 
comments.Careless comments prove too offensive for rally
'•Mr'tWr
Patrick Hunt
Oh, illustrious 
Carnegie Mellon 
University, the most 
prestigious of 
Pittsburgh’s many 
institutions of higher learning, the integrity of your fine 
school stretches throughout the world. The repute of the 
your graduates is almost beyond compare. Your cutting 
edge approach to education is the envy of academia. Oh, 
illustrious Carnegie Mellon University, how disappointed 
. you must be with our choices for student body president 
— those proud and privileged people who specialize in 
tactless behavior.
For those of you who did not make it to the A1 Gore 
speech last Monday at the Cathedral of Learning, allow 
me to paint you a picture of the events that transpired: 
Imagine thousands of college students patiently waiting 
to hear from our country’s second-in-command. These 
students represent colleges from throughout the state of 
Pennsylvania, and they are listening attentively as the 
chosen leaders from several of the colleges speak to set 
the scene for A1 Gore. First up is a financial aid counselor 
from the University of Pittsburgh, whose purpose is to 
rouse the crowd into a student aid-saving frenzy. Next to 
speak is the student body president from Chatham 
College, who is immediately followed by the ever-so- 
nervous student president of Duquesne University. The 
eloquent student body president of CMU is the next to
speak, and her speech is followed by a masterful oratory 
from a member of the Community College of Allegheny 
County. The next to speak is the student president from 
the University of Pittsburgh, who humbly introduces 
our nation’s Vice President. Now imagine that some­
where in the middle of the speeches, you heard the 
phrase “Yunz want fries with dat?” (which refers to the 
manner of speech indigenous to certain areas of Pitts­
burgh). Now, imagine further that those words came 
from the mouth of none other than Gina Schuyler, our 
fearless representative for the eyes and ears of the 
world.
Important to the overall effect that Gina’s words had 
was the context that surrounded “Yunz want fries with 
dat?” She claimed that she is so dependent on unspeci­
fied amounts of student aid, that without it, she could no 
longer continue her education, and would thus be re­
duced to asking people “Yunz want fries with dat?” With 
that phrase, Gina not only slighted unspecified numbers 
of Pittsburghers, but she also insulted the integrity of 
CMU. Her place as a speaker at such an auspicious 
occasion should not have been used as an open forum to 
assault specific regional dialects, along with the concur­
rent number of people who use such dialects. Saying 
“yunz” does not immediately limit one’s job opportuni­
ties to only include food service. Does everyone who says 
“y’all” drink bad beer and drive a pickup truck? In Gina’s 
world they would, but in reality, that is simply not the
case. By equating the dialect of Pittsburghese with the 
occupation of waitressing, Gina made a fool of herself, 
and our school.
The funny thing about’Gina’s speech is how sadly 
ironic her comment was. At a student aid rally, of all 
places, she brought to light one of the groups in Pitts­
burgh who can use student aid the most. Was she 
supportive of their cause? Did she mention how difficult 
the struggle is for the young people of the Pittsburgh 
communities that used to depend on the steel industry? 
Of course not. She used their way of speech to try to 
emphasize a point that could have easily been made 
using any number of non-offensive phrases.
Every other speaker at the student aid rally delivered 
speeches that reflected their respect for the rally. Each 
speech was concise, intelligent, and supported the cause 
at hand.
No other disparaging remarks were made. With one 
important exception, every speaker understood that 
their place at the nationally-publicized podium was not 
a place to offend. Why was Gina Schuyler so oblivious to 
her role? Easy, she was simply proving to all that she can 
easily follow in the proud tradition of excellence begun 
by her presidential predecessor, Declan McCullough.
Patrick Hunt is a senior English major. He welcomes 
any intelligent, non-offensive comments on this column. 
Reply at your leisure.Sickly sweet soda soddens columnist’s stomach
Eric Salzman
You know how sometimes you’re five 
minutes into lecture, and you have a re­
ally big sneeze that makes stuff come out 
of your nose, only you don’t have a tissue, 
so you try to be real sneaky by wiping the 
stuff away with your hand, but that won’t 
work because people know you just 
sneezed so they are watching your hands 
to see if you wipe your nose with them. Of 
course, you can’t get up to get a tissue 
because then everyone will be looking at 
your nose and then they’ll see the stuff 
which is just what you’re trying to avoid. 
So you’re stuck, you’ve got to sit through 
another 45 minutes of lecture with stuff 
hanging out of your nose until you can get 
up and be hidden in the crowd.
Stuck, just like when you have to drink 
diet soda.
Just the other day I found my self thirsty 
at a time when the only free beverage in 
sight was Diet Coke. Now, I’m sure I’ve 
tried diet soda before, but I’ve certainly 
never drank it in mass quantities. How­
ever, at this particular time, I was
thristy and needed quenching.
So I’m thinking that those ads I saw all 
those years ago about people drinking 
Diet Coke “just for the taste of it,” should 
mean that the stuff wouldn’t taste like 
regurgitated caramel syrup with four- 
year-old vanilla 
extract.
And yet it did.
Who are you sa­
distic fiends 
drinking this 
stuff by choice?
Has anyone out 
there actually 
tasted Diet 
Coke?
Allow me to 
describe the bubbling beverage of bowels.
Imagine really old cauliflower juice with 
bad seasoning and a hint of cardomin. I’d 
prefer that to Diet Coke. Don’t get me 
wrong, I don’t mean to pick on Coke. I’m 
sure Diet Pepsi, Diet RC, and Diet Local- 
Supermarket-Generic-Brand suck just as 
bad; however, I haven’t tried all of those.
' Now I’ve never been one to whine with­
out offering a solution. Actually, I have 
done that, but I’m not going to this time.
Here’s my plan: First, change those stu­
pid ads (actually, I don’t know if they still 
run).
Let’s go from “just for the taste of it,” to 
“well, this stuff tastes like my dog’s urine 
but you don’t have to feel guilty about 
drinking a carbonated beverage because
"I’m sure rooster poop has lots of fiber but 
I’m not about to eat it just because it’s 
good for me. ”
—Eric Salzman
you won’t get fat, just bloated.”
Next, my editor says that people should 
drink less Coke in general; therefore, there 
would be no need to drink the diet nucleo- 
acidic, nose-slime-like Coke.
I pointed out that then people would be 
thirsty.
He didn’t seem phased.
Look folks, Diet Coke sucks and we all 
know it. “Just one calorie?” Big deal. I’m 
sure rooster poop has lots of fiber but I’m 
not about to eat it just because it’s good for
me. Some people have managed to brain­
wash themselves to the point where they 
think that they enjoy the taste. However, 
the only reason people want to enjoy the 
taste is because they think they are losing 
weight. Here’s a hint, if you want to lose
___________ weight, a couple of diet
sodas isn’t going to do the 
trick.
Also, people need to stop 
being so concerned with 
losing weight, anyway.
It’s so much more fun to 
eat what you want, drink 
what you want, and exer­
cise only when the thumb 
5eeS5S6SI needs to hit a different 
button. Splurge, live your 
life, be /ree — drink stuff with lots of 
calories and lots of caffeine. Oh yeah, you 
should also watch more cartoons.
Eric Salzman is still trying to recover 
from his last trip to the bathroom. Since 
they haven’t replaced the toilet vapor with 
Charmin, he is going to see how well a Coke 
can works. He heartily welcomes any sug­
gestions, comments, or new rolls of toilet 
paper, little samples of perfume, or small, 
shiny objects.
A PERSON’S
OPINION
IjSsV " - -V
k Wff 'V
Things are rough all over, 
people say. But how rough 
are they? Good thing you 
asked, because now we know. 
We asked: What horrible event happened to you in the past three weeks and how did you overcome it?
Matt Morrow 
Senior 
Directing
“My car was broken into, my 
radio was taken, and my door 
handle was ripped off. But I got 
it fixed and got a better radio.”
Jan Endlich
Junior
Art
“I was frollicking and hit my 
head on a low ceiling. I kept it 
dry and it healed.”
Mike Stanger 
Junior
Comp. Biology/Econ
“I made the mistake of getting 
a Super-Cut. It’s a self-esteem 
raising experience.”
Jim Snyder/Darkroom Manager
Michelle Malito
Senior
Econ
“I chipped half of my tooth. I 
didn’t eat for five days, but I got 
it fixed.”
THE TARTAN
Carnegie Mellon’s Student Newspaper 
Since 1906
Editor-in-chief.... Lauren E. Heinz 
Managing Ed. Kenneth J. Kraemer
Business Manager........Amit Kar
News Editor...........Jason Togyer
Forum Editor..............John Biggs
Sports Co-Editors .... Paul Boothe
..........................Matthew Solitro
Features Co-Eds. Shannon Gibney
...................Jonmichael L.T. Moy
Diversions Editor.... Eric Salzman 
DossierDsgn. Eds.Brockett Horne
............................Jennifer Zieserl
Dossier Lit. Ed... Adriane Seibert 
Art Co-Eds. ... Francine Gemperle
...........................Gabrien Symons
Photo Editor. Andrew McDermott
Production Mgr.............Kathy Liu
Acting Systems Mgr.......1-Ping Li
Copy Manager.............Eric Strauss
Asst. News Ed......Sameer Karim
Asst. Diversions Eel......Ena Kahn
Photo Staff Mgr. Jason Siegendorf 
Darkroom Manager.... Jim Snyder
Senior Staff
Matt Ball
¦Staffwriters 
Gil Alterovitz, Jason Andracki, 
Darren Chiapetta, Carey 
Clevenger, Tricia Davis, Gretel 
Gaal, Dan Goldwasser, Anuj Gupta, 
Tom Harper, Jason Heinlein, David 
Koran, WladimirLabeikovsky,April 
C. Moate, Angela Molloy, Suzanne 
Paddok, Sudhir Reddy, James 
Stepanek, Paul Tabachneck, Bill 
Vandermark, Sharmila Venkata- 
subban, Dawn Wallhausen, Susan 
Watson, Heather Zindle
Art
Mark Eggert, Ryan Rhoades
Comics
Nick Casciato Jr., Ramsey Hong, 
Jung Park, Jackson Tam, Daniel 
Yauger, Mike Yeh
Photo
Josh Freeman, Yuzo Watanabe
Production 
Shiv, Dewan, Lester Manzano, Eliza­
beth Neuman, Victor Ortega, 
Shantanu Rana, Derek Wahila
Copy
Lori Bowes, Max Chlttister, 
Madhav Ghanta, D. Renee 
Hairston, Winter Mason, Diane 
Ohm, Ed Slavishak, Richard 
Smolen, M. J. Wilson
Business 
Patricia DiGiuseppi, Chintan Shah
Junior Staff 
Diana Bartolotta, Yosef Birnboim, 
Chris Cannon, Steve Charnoubi, 
Wanching Cheng, Lisa Don, Neil 
Donnelly, Elias Fallon, Scott Hess, 
Helen Huang, Heather Keith, Jen­
nifer Li, Din-Ying Lii, Kenneth 
Namchung, Kyle Oppenheim, Rick 
Rikoski, Carla Sereny, Rick 
Simmons, Gustavo Sganzerla, Jes­
sica Strelitz, Minh Tran, Jillian 
Watkins, Aaron Weisberg
The Tartan is the student newspaper of 
Carnegie Mellon University. It is a weekly 
newspaper published by students during the 
fall and spring semesters, at no cost to 
members of the University community. It is 
printed by Western Pennsylvania Printing, 
Inc. Subscriptions are available for the se­
mester or academic year. The editorials ap­
pearing at the beginning of the opinion sec­
tion are the official opinion of The Tartan 
editorial board. Columns and political car­
toons are the opinions of individual creators. 
The Tartan reserves the right to reject or 
condense any column or political cartoon. 
Letters to the Editor are opinions of authors 
who are usually, but not necessarily, mem­
bers of the University comn^jnity. A letter 
intended for publication must be signed and 
include the writer's address and phone num­
ber for verification. Names may be withheld 
upon request. The Tartan requests that let­
ters be no longer than 500 words. The Tartan 
reserves the right to condense or reject any 
letter. Copyright © 1995 by The Tartan. The 
Tartan editorial board reserves the right to 
withhold from publication any copy it deems 
unfit for publication.
Office: Student Center Room 104 
Phone: (412) 268-2111 
Mailing address: The Tartan/Box 17/Carn­
egie Mellon University/Pittsburgh, PA 15213- 
3890
Funded in part by your Activities Fee.
All rights reserved.
Library of Congress ISSN #: 0890-3107.

---------------------------------------------------

Students:Talk with
representatives from more than 60 
companies. Bring your resumé, find out 
about permanent and summer ioh opportunities. Du«* ff«*' -
p„rtMp°«"9COmPDn"iS
i^r=n^iw's
Bankers Trull
Boyer Corporat.cn
Bel' Atlantic
Bellcore
BOC Gases
CherrySemiconductor
Chrys'er 
Cisco Systems Cytec lndostr.es, Inc 
Boll Computer
E.Systemssssfcr
'
first USA Bank 
Fordfore Systems
General Wot««
Honda
IBM
International Paper
j p. NlorSan
'CZZ~rss:s=-tutron
f/, uj. KeW®99
Microsoft
HE^Systems laboratory 
^Communication
£ —Peterson Consulting 
Procter & Gamble 
Qualcomm 
Radian0onM,Ie SranraoeMrI 
0ldmuNd,aC,a 
0lM,IeMwMl pemoIeoc Inc.
Signet5verdup Civil, Inc. 
$wiss-8ank Corporation 
Symbol Technologies 
TelxonTrilogy Development Group 
U.S. NavyU.S. West Technologies 
USAA Services 
VisixW.L Gore & Associates
*
S’16 08vb85G8E Ux ixff.
«•*
sponsor©A by
Student Chapters ofSWE ant^

---------------------------------------------------

Volume 90, Issue 3The Tartan, Carnegie Mellon University, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania18 September 1995
Tartan run well at IUP
Top players ignored by Heisman
Honor and recognition are of- 
;en given to those who don’t de- 
lerve it. Watson and Crick pla­
giarized to get a Nobel Prize, and 
Barry Truman won the Presi­
dency without the majority of the 
wote.I This year, the Heisman Trophy 
will be awarded to someone who 
[oesn’t deserve it.
For the last seven years, col­
lege football’s most prestigious- 
individual award has been given 
fcway to subpar players who 
tacked up big numbers against 
weak competition.
Last year, the trophy went to 
jRashaan Salaam, who played 
> against some traditional power­
houses like Nebraska and Texas, 
but don’t look for even a decent 
tlecision like that one from the 
•Downtown Athletic Club (who 
awards the Heisman) this time 
¦ound. The award has turned 
ito a joke.
Salaam put up big numbers 
tgainst good competition, but if 
ie was the best player in college 
football last year, why was fellow 
•unning back Ki-Jana Carter 
,aken with the first overall pick 
in the NFL draft?
I The 1993 Heisman winner 
Charlie Ward was not even 
drafted and previous winners 
dre Ware and Gino Torreta 
ire not on current NFL rosters 
iither.
The trophy is a key part to 
college tradition. It commemo­
rates John Heisman, who is to 
football what Machiavelli is to 
lolitics. However, it has now been 
¡orrapted into a mere popularity 
{contest, while the most talented 
players receive other, less-pres- 
tigious awards.
j The Heisman has never been 
awarded to a defensive player, so 
,don’t look for them to start this 
¿year. Only one wide receiver has 
$von in the past seven years.
Quarterbacks have hogged the 
award, winning four of the last 
even. The last two running backs 
Salaam and Barry Sanders) to 
n the Heisman both rushed for 
over 2,000 yards..
The running backs around the 
nation are talented, but most have 
a significant drawback. Auburn’s 
.Stephen Davis is a big, bruising 
back who rushed for six touch­
-downs in his first two games this 
year. Warrick Dunn from Florida 
State is small, quick, and averag­
ing over 10 yards a carry. 
Lawrence Phillips seems to have 
the complete package for Ne­
braska.
But none of these runners have 
a chance at the Heisman. Davis 
is off_to a slow start in yards, 
punn may not even be the best 
player on his team, and Phillips 
Jias been suspended from the 
Beam for a violent incident, 
j If a running back will win the 
Heisman this year it will be Texas 
A&M’s do-everything man, 
¦J^eeland McElroy. Rushing, re­
ceiving, and returning kicks for a 
total of 359 yards in the season 
ppener, McElroy will put up big 
¡lumbers all year long. 
i The quarterback position has 
£een the favorite to win the 
.peisman in recent history. Tra­
ditionally, it doesn’t matter how 
the quarterback actually per­
forms; his team’s record is more 
important.
f Florida’s Danny Wuerffel, 
Florida State’s Danny Kanell, 
Auburn’s Patrick Nix, and 
Tennessee’s Peyton Manning are 
the nation’s top quarterbacks on 
Please see HEISMAN, page 12
Carnegie steamrolls Rhodes College 35-7
By DARREN CHIAPPETTA
Tartan Staffwriter
As Carnegie Mellon stepped onto the field 
Saturday night to take on Rhodes College, 
several questions lurked in the air sur­
rounding Gesling Stadium. Would the Tar­
tans come out flat against Rhodes after last 
week’s lopsided loss to Allegheny College? 
How would the offense perform without its 
two captains, senior tight end Aaron Neal 
and senior halfback Mike Mathias, both of 
whom are likely out for the year?
And, oh, by the way, what was up with 
this Rhodes team? They had yet to play a 
game, and scouting reports had the Lynx 
running several different offenses, includ­
ing the Wing-T, which is the same basic 
offense the Tartans rim.
Whatever the question, CMU had the 
answer Saturday, as they controlled the 
ball for nearly 36 minutes and played a 
solid game on both sides of the ball en route 
to a 35-7 victory.
Head Coach Rich Lackner was impressed 
with the ability of his team to put last 
week’s game behind them.
“Anytime you take a bad loss, you won­
der how the team will react,” he said. “I 
was proud of our kids. They played hard 
and did some good things out there.”
All week, the coaching staff spoke of the 
need for the defense to step up their game 
to help the offense, which was missing its 
two biggest weapons in Neal and Mathias.
However, it was the offense, led by 
Mathias’ replacement, sophomore Chris 
Neupaver, which was the most effective 
Carnegie Mellon unit.
Neupaver was the team’s leading rusher 
with 50 yards on 10 carries, and also 
caught a pass. Meanwhile, the quarter­
back tandem of seniors Keith Dickerson 
and Dave Soltysik played well for the 
second time in three games, with the two 
combining for seven completions in 13 
attempts for 131 yards passing. Soltysik 
threw for a touchdown and was also inter­
cepted once. The Tartans gained 362 yards 
in total offense.
Dickerson said the difference between 
this week andlast week was easy to see. “It 
was a big improvement over last week.
Please see FOOTBALL, page 10
Senior quarterback Keith Dickerson (#5) and freshman offensive guard Randy 
Overstreet (#73) helped the Tartans tally 35 points against Rhodes College.
UAA overtime matches
The Pigskin Pundit
by Chris Cannon
Back on track...
By RICK RIKOSKI
Tartan Junior Staffwriter
haunt women’s soccer team
Gustavo Sganzerla/Tartan Photographer 
Senior forward Nicole Poisson works the ball around a UC defender.
By PAUL BOOTHE
Tartan Sports Co-Editor
The Tartans split their games 
this week, defeating Allegheny 
College on Wednesday 1-0, and 
losing an intense UAA match-up 
to the University of Chicago, 1-0 
in overtime, on Saturday.
Chicago and CMU both played 
an extremely aggressive game 
Saturday because of last season’s 
match-up. Last year, the two 
teams faced each other at the end 
oftheseasonwith the winner cap­
turing the UAA title and a shot at 
the NCAA playoffs. After a long, 
hard match, Chicago won on a 
controversial penalty kick. Both 
teams remembered that match­
up, and it was apparent that nei­
ther team wanted a repeat this 
time.
CMU put on the pressure early 
in the first half, keeping the ball 
in the UC defensive zone for long 
stretches of time. Toward the 
midpoint of the half, the action 
shifted more to midfield, as both 
teams fought for control of the 
ball. Several times, one team 
would gain the upper hand and 
start an offensive push into the 
opposing zone, but the ball kept 
returning to midfield. Near the 
end of the half, CMU again ap­
peared to have the upper hand, 
controlling the ball near the Chi­
cago goal, but the team was again 
unable to put the ball in the net, 
and time ran out in the first half.
Chicago returned from halftime
with new energy, and put strong 
pressure on the CMU defense, 
passing the ball well to keep it on 
Carnegie’s side of the field. After 
about 10 minutes, CMU decided 
that they had enough and re­
versed UC’s push to put them on 
the defensive. It was during this 
push that senior forward Nicole 
Poisson struck hard at the Chi­
cago defense.
Emerging from jumbled fight­
ing at midfield, Poisson held con­
trol of the ball as she raced into 
the UC defensive zone, trailed 
closely by two UC defenders, and 
drilled a shot at the goal. The 
Chicago goalie, who had been 
playing out from the net, jumped 
and deflected the shot upwards.
Please see OVERTIME, page 13
The men’s and women’s cross 
country teams both did extremely 
well this weekend at the IUP 
Invitational, placing fourth and 
third respectively.
On the men’s side, freshman 
Kristo Kriechbaum continued to 
improve, decreasing his time to 
27:01 and placing fifth, the best 
men’s finisher. Junior Becky 
Buchheit finished fifth for the 
women. She was followed closely 
by senior Missy Baustert in sev­
enth and freshman Maureen 
McGranaghan in eighth. With the 
help of junior Sebastian Zeisler 
and sophomore Brian Ingram, 
who finished 11th and 18th re­
spectively, the CMU men easily 
beat Slippery Rock.
The women came in behind 
Slippery Rock and IUP, missing 
second place by only one point. 
Coach Dario Donatelli was im­
pressed, saying he didn’t expect 
^to run as well as they did with 
two nationally-ranked Division 
II teams.
Both coaches stressed that they 
are pleased with their squads. 
Donatelli said, “Right now the 
team is doing better than I ex­
pected — and I had high hopes 
coming into the season.” He said 
that the returning women have 
all improved, and the team has 
been strengthened by the addi­
tion of several freshmen.
Men’s Coach Gary Meckley said 
that while the young team’s po­
tential is not yet known, it is still 
the best Division III team in the 
area. He said, “I really feel like 
I’ve had some wonderful teams 
over the years ... but this is the 
best bunch of overachievers that 
I’ve ever had. They are running 
the closest to their potential than 
any group I’ve seen.”
The teams run at Dickenson 
College next Saturday.
Tartan Rie Photo
Freshman Harry Ulrich scored a hat trick en route to a 5-2 win over Maryville. The team won two games this week in impressive fashion.boaeoI3 arlg 5oa9-Mmm,c S4MloCr
By RICK SIMMONS
Tartan Junior Staffwriter
The men’s soccer team gave a strong show­
ing last week as they pounded Maryville 
college, 5-2, and UAA rival University of 
Chicago, 4-0.
Coach Nick Gaudioso accredits the team’s 
success to the return of freshman goalkeeper 
Brad McNutt and a few changes in the rest 
of the lineup. Sophomores Jason Buelow 
and Akira Imai have switched to froward 
and midfield, respectively.
In addition, freshman Wes Kopacka 
started on outside midfield in both games 
this week.
Gaudioso says, “He’s just what we want, 
somebody to play like a freshman, to not
always go forward on the attack, to be just a 
solid player.”
In Saturday’s game against the Univer­
sity of Chicago, play got off to a slow start, 
with no goals being scored in the first half. 
However, the Tartans came out of the locker 
room strong, scoring 13 minutes into the 
second half. Buelow simply overpowered a 
loose ball out of the Chicago keeper’s control 
and into the net.
Ten minutes later, Imai got loose on a 
break down the left side and shot a rocket 
past the keeper, making it 2-0.
Five minutes after that, off a corner kick, 
Buelow fired a blast that seemed to be going 
wide to the left. However, fifth-year senior 
midfielder Chuck Kuba was waiting right 
there to knock it in.
Then, with 12 minutes left, Buelow played
an excellent cross from the right side to 
wide-open freshman forward Harry Ulrich, 
who put it in, making the score final at 4- 
0.
Gaudioso said afterwards, “I could tell 
after our first goal that we were going to 
win. It was just one of those games.”
Last Thursday, against Maryville Col­
lege, the Tartans got a flavor of play they 
aren’t exactly accustomed to. While CMU 
has always played tough, a style of play 
which is accepted by nearly all soccer pro­
grams, Maryville plays rough, according 
to Gaudioso, playing the man instead of 
the ball and fouling whenver possible. 
However, this did not stop the Tartans 
from playing an excellent game and cap­
turing their first win.
Please see SOCCER, page 11

---------------------------------------------------

xOThe Tartan • Carnegie Mellon University • 18 September 1995
Administration
Intramural Director — Mike 
Mastroianni, x8-2214; Assistant Direc­
tor — Mike Grzywinski, 683-2938; In­
tramural Secretary — Michelle Matta, 
X8-2053; Intramural Co-Presidents — 
Mike Monico and Sean Keane; Intra­
mural Women's President — Patty 
Bruno.
Important Dates
Tuesday, September 18— IM Board 
Meeting, 12:30 pm.
Wednesday, September 19—Water 
polo and chess schedules can be picked 
up in the IM Office.
Thursday, October 5 — Entries due 
for soccer, Highlander games, volley­
ball, bowling, and racquetball.
Intramural Football
The 1995 Intramural Touch Football 
season is entering its second full week 
of play with a total of 46 teams partici­
pating. All teams are reminded to check 
in the Intramural Office for any schedul­
ing updates or changes. If you have any 
questions concerning intramural foot­
ball, call Intramural Director Mike 
Mastroianni. Here are the first rankings 
after one week of play:
Maioia
1. SAE Champions (1-0)
2. Gang Green (0-0)
3. Beta Colemans #83 (0-0)
Minors
1. PKT Silent Rage (2-0)
2. TX Blue (1-0)
3. Beta All-Stars (1-0)
4. Delt Scrubs (1-0)
5. 69er’s (1-0)
Women
1. Tartan Hoopers (0-0)
2. Tie: Theta/DG (0-0-1)
BBE(O-O-l)
Co-Rec Volleyball
The Co-Rec Volleyball season is in 
full swing with all three leagues (ma­
jors, intermediate, minors) having 
played their first matches. Games will 
run from 6:45-9:45 Monday through 
Thursday in the main gym. Teams are 
reminded to check the IM bulletin boards 
for updates and scheduling changes.
IM Tennis
A record number of 31 teams are 
participating in this year's intramural 
tennis leagues. Games are held Mon­
day through Thursday evenings and the 
courts are reserved from 7 pm-11 pm.
All winning teams are reminded that 
they must report .the score into the 
Intramural Office no laterthan 24 hours 
after the completion of their match. If 
you have any questions you can call 
Intramural Director Mike Mastroianni.
IM Officials
Football and soccer officials are still 
being accepted into the Intramural 
department's officials club. Experience 
is not a requirement. Anyone looking 
for a campus job who is interested 
should call IM Director Mike 
Mastroianni. Both work-study and non- 
work-study students can apply.
ENTERING ENAIL ROSTERS
To enter your team by way of email, 
you must use an “Official Entry Form," 
which is posted to the official.athletic- 
dept-news bboard periodically. Please 
use this form when enteringyour team. 
Email entries will not be accepted any 
other way.
Note: All email rosters are due 24 
hours prior to the actual due date. No 
exceptions will be made. The Intramu­
ral department has the right to refuse 
any rosters submitted after the dead­
line Questions can be directed to: 
Michelle (x8-2053 or mzlO).
Submitted by 
MICHELLE MATTA
Low Student 
Faculty Fares
International destinations 
Discounted domestic fares 
AYH & Eurail Passes
Experienced, 
friendly service.
4608 Winthrop St. 
(off S. Craig in Oakland)
boaeoI3 3erNn T9IP Z,3nMe, MIAuaM,3
FOOTBALL, continued from page 9
Our line was blowing them off the ball, 
and we were running well,” he said.
The game against Allegheny marked 
the first time in offensive coordinator Rich 
Erdelyi’s 26 years of coaching high school 
and college football that his team did not 
rush for at least 100 yards, according to 
the coach. After last week’s subpar effort, 
the Tartans rushed for 252 yards on Sat­
urday.
Rhodes won the opening coin toss and 
elected to receive. Employing essentially 
the same version of the Wing-T that CMU 
runs, the Lynx moved from their own 21- 
yard line down to the Tartan 27 before 
placekicker Chad House missed a 45-yard 
field goal.
On the drive, Rhodes running back 
Michael Lee rushed for 45 yards on four 
carries, including a 27-yard pickup. Lee 
gave Carnegie Mellon fits all night, amass­
ing 138 yards rushing in just 19 carries. 
He also had an 81-yard touchdown run in 
the second quarter that was nullified by a 
penalty.
Near the end of the first quarter, the 
Tartan offense started to get on track. On
a first-and-10 play from the Rhodes 44, 
Dickerson dropped back and found sopho­
more receiver Ricco Parrish for a 16-yard 
gain. On the strength of that completion 
and the powerful running of senior full­
back Lee Anton, CMU traveled 68 yards 
in nine plays, with Anton’s three-yard 
touchdown run capping off the drive. The 
extra point was missed, and 1:30 into the 
second quarter, the Tartans led, 6-0.
Two series later, it was Soltysik’s turn, 
as he drove Carnegie Mellon 53 yards in 
eight plays for another score. Junior half­
back Buck Neel was the star of this drive, 
picking up 22 yards in just two carries, 
including a six-yard touchdown jaunt. The 
Tartans were unable to successfully con­
vert a two-point try, but still led, 12-0.
After senior defensive back Rob Locke 
intercepted a Jimmie Glorioso pass on 
Rhodes’ next possession, Dickerson came 
in and ran the two-minute drill, moving 
the Tartans from their own 42 down to the 
Lynx 13. On the final play of the first half, 
junior punter and placekicker Frank 
Triggiani, who missed two extra points on 
the night, booted a 31-yard field goal for a 
15-0 Tartan lead.
Carnegie Mellon took the second half 
kickoff and marched 68 yards in 12 plays, 
with Parrish scoring on a 10-yard run off 
a reverse. Triggiani kicked the extra 
point, pushing the CMU lead to 22-0. 
The drive lasted four minutes and 41 
seconds.
The Tartans extended that cushion to 
28-0 with just over three minutes to go 
in the third quarter when Soltysik hooked 
up with Parrish on a gorgeous 60-yard 
connection. It was a perfect play from 
start to finish, with Soltysik waiting pa­
tiently for Parrish to break open and 
then hitting the sophomore in stride at 
about the 15-yard line.
Rhodes finally got on the board early in 
the fourth quarter on a seven-yard touch­
down run by Lee, but by then the issue 
was well decided.
The Tartan coaching staff was able to 
get several people a chance to play in the 
second half, and none capitalized on that 
opportunity more than freshman run­
ning back Gregg Miller.
Following Rhodes’ scoring drive, Miller 
ran for 44 yards in six carries and caught 
a pass for eight yards to set up his first
varsity touchdown, a three-yarder that 
gave the Tartans their final points.
Parrish and Casey Smith each hauled 
in two passes for CMU Saturday, tying 
for tops on the team. Parrish picked up 76 
yards and a touchdown while Smith 
gained 25 yards on his two receptions. On 
defense, junior linebacker Ray Ardire was 
once again the Tartans’ leading tackier, 
with eight. Freshman defensive back 
Vince Sonson had an interception, and 
sophomore linebacker Josh Stauffer had 
a sack as CMU improved to 2-1 on the 
season. Rhodes dropped to 0-1.
Carnegie Mellon has a week off before 
heading to Long Island for their first road 
game this season. There, they will face of! 
against the U.S. Merchant Marine Acad­
emy, who spoiled the Tartans’ homecom­
ing last season with a 30-22 victory.
CMU will need the week off, according 
to Lackner, to rest up and try and get 
healthy. Anton and senior linebacker Tom 
Bender, who replaced injured senior Ray 
Lewis, both sprained knees on Saturday. 
Their status for the Merchant Marine 
game is unknown. The game will be played 
at 1:30 pm on Saturday, September 30.
WHAT'S COOL?
http://www.burncyde.com
GL ELhD S6ST8
THE AWARD WINNING CD-ROM ACTION ADVENTURE GAME
FORUM TRAVEL 
Mon. - Fri. 9-5 pm 
Sat. Î 0-1 pm 
Call 681-4099
ON SALE SEPT 26MATURE
PHILIPS

---------------------------------------------------

The Tartan • Carnegie Mellon University • 18 September 1995xx
Women continue winning streak; 
men’s tennis team struggles
By SUDHIR REDDY
Tartan Staffwriter
The tennis teams continued their 
promising season as they played 
another successful week. The 
women’s team remained unde­
feated as of prior to Saturday and 
the men’s team, although losing to 
rival Allegheny, performed admi­
rably gained experience.
The women’s record improved 
to 6-0, while the men dropped to 
1-1.Playing in a highly intense and 
competitive match, the men fell 
short from victory but not without 
struggle. Among the six singles 
matches, three decisive matches 
went to three sets.
Number one seed sophomore 
Navroze Marshall said, “We have 
very good team but we did not 
play match-tough. Because of the 
lack of practice, the team was not 
ready.”
Indeed, the team as a whole felt 
that additional practice would re­
veal the team’s trufe talent.
The drama of the match was 
intensified by other factors as well. 
Playing in their first home match, 
the team was encouraged by a 
large crowd.
Mother factor was the contro­
versial matches. Marshall was in­
volved in such a match, which was 
destined to be one of his biggest 
victories and a highlight in the 
CMU-Allegheny rivalry.
Fueled by the crowd, Marshall 
prevailed in a three-set thriller.
Marshall stated, “This was one 
of my most emotional matches in 
my life. I just kept going and didn’t 
let them [the opponents] upset me.” 
Marshall won, 6-3, 3-6, 6—3; 
sophomore Jim Freese lost, 6-1, 
6-2; sophomore Dan Bilco lost, 6- 
3-6, 6-4; freshman Amit 
Jaipuria won, 6-3, 3-6, 6-4; jun­
ior Vijay Naykur lost, 6-4, 6-0;
and senior Muralidhar Haran lost, 
6-2, 6—2. The only doubles team 
which won was senior Brandon 
Lai and Dean Ito 4-6,7-6, (10-8), 
6-3.
The women’s team, also playing 
inspirational tennis, displayed 
their dominance by sweeping 
Westminster 9-0.
Playing in their first home 
match, the team was not seriously 
threatened in most of their 
matches as most of them were won 
with convincing scores.
Number one player freshman 
Keri Mills said that there wasn’t a 
lot of pressure because ofthe depth 
and support of the team.
As the previous matches have 
indicated, the excellence has been 
evident in all of the players. Team 
captain senior Miriam Huang also 
stated that the team felt 
that they played really well.
One of the biggest factors 
for the team’s success has 
been the renovated organi­
zation. Disciplined by rig­
orous training, the team 
has shown more commit­
ment to winning this sea­
son.
Mills won, 6-0, 6-1; 
freshman Karin Tuxen 
won, 6-4, 0-6, 6-4; fresh­
man Jillian Watkins won,
6—1, 6-1; Huang won, 6-3,
6-0; senior Namita Amin 
won, 6-1, 6-2; and junior 
Michelle Cook won, 6-0,
6-3.
For the doubles matches,
Mills, Watkins won, 6-1,
6-0; Amin, freshman 
Miklane Fedorowich won,
6-3, 6-3; and sophomore 
Natalie Lee, freshmanArti 
Sharma won, 2-6, 6-3,
6-2.
Both teams were involved 
in crucial matches this past 
weekend. The teams trav­
eled to Rochester and played in 
various matches. The women’s 
team beat Cortland 9-0, but suf­
fered their first loss of the season 
to Rochester 3-6. The men’s 
stuggled against difficult oppo­
nents at the Great Dane Classic.
The women’s team will travel 
to cross-town rival Chatam Col­
lege this Wednesday. The match 
will start at 3 pm.
This coming weekend, four 
players from the women’s team 
will attend the Rolex Northeast 
Regional Collegiate Tennis 
Championships at William Smith 
College. Mills, Watkins, Amin, 
and Huang will represent the 
team.
The men’s team will also be 
sending representatives to the 
tournament the next week.
Volleyball team starts its season on a down note
By JESSICA STRELITZ
Tartan Junior Staffwriter
The CMU women’s volleyball team has got­
ten off to a rocky start this season, dropping 
their first 10 matches in their most recent 
tournaments. Their record stood at 1-11 after 
last Tuesday’s meeting between the Tartans, 
Theil College, and Chatham.
The first tournament was held the weekend 
of September 2 at Kalamazoo College. The 
Tartans played matches against Spring Ar­
bor, Bluffton, Wooster, and Carroll; with win­
ners being determined by the best of three 
games. In the second tournament, held the 
following weekend at Gettysburg College, 
CMU faced Johns Hopkins, Westminster, 
Lycoming. Gettysburg, and Kean. All matches 
proved frustrating for the Tartans as they 
were overwhelmed by the opposition.
“I don’t schedule any easy teams for a rea­
son,” said Heather Hollands, head coach of 
the team. “This way they are going to be really 
prepared come October when they start to 
face the UAA teams.”
The team is also undaunted by their record 
and strongly agrees that pure numbers do not 
reflect the true strengths of the team. “The 
flow of the game is picking up nicely,” said
sophomore center Brittany Rutter about the 
Gettysburg tournament.
Freshman recruits have a lot of pressure on 
them. They were placed on the team to fill valu­
able spots and are forced every game to play “front 
and center.” Hollands cited two standouts. Jenni­
fer Sutherland is a freshman middle hitter whose 
abilities are quickly strengthening. Tawnya 
Sutherland, from Mount Union, Pennsylvania, is 
a serious side-hitting threat. Combined with sopho­
more Raechelle Wong, the new addition in the 
backrow defensive spot, these women’s communi­
cation skills and dedication make them rising 
stars on the team. And the team will need these 
players more than ever, now that Bruno is out 
with an injured ankle until the UAA tournament 
next weekend.
“We need to concentrate on finishing plays and 
scoring when there is a side out,” said senior 
outside hitter Jenn Goetz of the team’s renewed 
effort for upcoming matches. Tournament action 
continued this past weekend with an outing south 
to Virginia. They face top UAA seed University of 
Rochester in tournament action in New York on 
September 30.
“The team is going through the growing pains 
right now,” said Hollands, “But with the win over 
Chatham, they are set and on their way. We are 
looking forward to great season.”
5,I$3 3rll,a 3eoae3 sMIIMIC
Andrew McDermott/Tartan Photo Editor 
The men’s tennis team lost to Allegheny 
College in an intense match last Thursday.
SOCCER, from page 9
Ulrich got a hat trick. His first goal came off a 
Tartan comer kick that led to a scramble in 
front of the Maryville net, in which he was able 
to out-hustle an opposing defender to the ball.
His second resulted from headballs from se­
nior midfielder Alan Levin and Imai.
His third was a beautifully engineered goal. 
Kuba weaved a ball from the right side through 
two Maryville defenders, and Ulrich fired it 
past the goalkeeper.
Maryville then scored on a situation similar to 
the Tartan’s first goal; the ball was knocked 
around inside the penalty box a few times, and 
one of their forwards finally put it in.
Later, Imai blasted a free kick at the keeper 
from about 40 yards out. It bounced off him, and 
junior forward Neil Armstrong, in for Ulrich,
put in the rebound. Then Maryville got a free kick 
of their own, also about 40 yards out. The ball 
bounced wildly on the turf, and McNutt was 
screened and couldn’t react in time.
“Both balls would normally have been savable,” 
said Gaudioso, “but because of Brad’s knee, he has 
a little trouble going to the left.”
Gaudioso estimates McNutt at about 80%, but 
sees each day as buying him time and strength.
The Tartans then scored the final goal of the 
game as Levin sent a bomb upfield to Imai, who 
put it past the helpless Maryville keeper.
The team hopes that the two impressive wins 
this past week will earn Carnegie Mellon a re­
gional ranking.
The Tartans host Allegheny College on Tuesday 
at 7:30 pm. They then meet up with Waynesburg 
College at home on Thursday at 7:30 pm.
All-Ireland Champions and Award- 
Winning Masters of Irish Music
¦This concert by two masters of Irish traditional music was one to savor.'
—Irish Echo
Frick Fine Arts Auditorium 
Schenley Drive, Oakland 
$10 advance, $12 door
Ticketmaster 323-1919 Calliope 687-8800
Soe4om 5lSrII,mm 2 T,I Rao4oN
Wed., Sept. 20, 8 pmCALLH
The Plttjburgh Folk Music Societyil>P€
Do You Skip or Miss Periods?
Researchers at Magee-Womens Hospital are conducting a 
study to determine what causes women to miss their periods. 
If you have four or fewer periods a year, are not on medication, 
are between 18 and 35 years of age, a non-smoker, and of 
normal weight, please call Kerry at 641-1602. If eligible, you 
may earn up to $525.
Magae-^Kxnens Hospitalmmm™Rxalifetime.
Career opportunities 
at J.R Morgan
for Carnegie Mellon students interested in
Audit Plus
Equity Research Associate 
Global Technology and Operations
Please plan to attend our 
information presentation on 
Thursday -, October .>
6:00- S.-00pm
Mudge Lounge. Mutige Hall 
All majors welcome
JPMorgan
Internet littp.'/Avww.jpmorfsm.com
J.P. .Morgan is an equal opportunity employer
lmo33MwM,Z
HOUSING
Roommate wanted to share three-story 
house in Squirrel Hill. Rent $325/month 
not including utilities. Carpeted floors 
and full laundry facilities. To start 
immediately. Graduate student 
preferred. 521-1798.
JOBS
Club leaders for Young |udea. Respon­
sible, creative, must like children. Judaic 
background required. Sunday meetings. 
September-April employment. Salary 
plus expenses. Licensed driver. Call 
Young Judea Regional Office @ 521- 
4877.
Earn 5500 or more weekly stuffing 
envelopes at home. Send SASE to: 
Country Living Shoppers, Dept. C22, PO 
Box 1779, Denham Springs, LA 70727.
SPRING BREAK! TRAVEL FREE with Sun 
Splash Tours, "The Reliable Spring Break 
Company!" We pay the Highest 
commissions, at the lowest prices. 
Campus Reps wanted to sell Jamaica, 
Cancún, Bahamas, Daytona, Panama 
City, and South Padre. Call for 
Information, Reservations, & Prices. 1- 
800-426-7710
Wanted: Wonderfully Creative People. 
Proofreader wanted for children's stoiy. 
Story is 20 pages long approximately. 
Copies of document will be provided in 
3.5" disk. Document is copywritten. 
Storyboard developer. Song editor. 
Renumeration for services. Serious 
inquires only. Please call 741-0867.
Leave message.
Membership and organizational 
director. Average 10 Hours a week 9 
months a year $7.00/hour Bonus Possible. 
Maintain and Increase Organization 
Membership, Solicit Contributions, 
Student/Faculty Liaison, Manage Mailings, 
Compile Newsletter. Send resume 
including any references to: Taylor 
Allerdice Alumni Association ,2409 Shady 
Ave., Pittsburgh, PA 15217.
Spring Break '96 — Sell trips, earn cash 
& go free! Student Travel Services is now 
hiring campus representatives. Lowest 
rates to Jamaica, Cancún, Daytona, and 
Panama City Beach. Call 1-800-648- 
4849.
Mon.-Sat. 11-6, Sun. 1-5. Phone: 412- 
682-8030 e-mail: townsend@interloc.com
SERVICES
LOSE WEIGHT— doctor-recommended 
herbal and nutritional programs-easy, 
safe, comfortable. I dropped 6 dress sizes 
in 8 weeks, without drugs/exercise/crazy 
diets! Kelly 429-5894.
International Students-Visitors. DV-1 
Greencard Program, by U.S. Immigra­
tion. Legal Services, Tel: (818) 772- 
7168 #20231 Stagg St., Canoga Park, 
CA 91306.
Mise
Townsend Booksellers offers a Free On­
line Search Service for out-of-print books. 
Always buying and selling fine used, rare, 
and scholarly books in all fields. Near 
campus at 4612 Henry St. (off S. Craig).
Classified Rates
1-20 words..........$5.00/wk
21-50 words..........$8.00/wk
51-100 words.......511.00/wk
MAIL TO:
The Tartan, Boxi 7 
Carnegie Mellon University 
Pittsburgh, PA 15213-3890
•Classifieds must be paid in cash or 
check before first run date.
•On-campus departments and organiza­
tions may pay by journal transfer.
•Due by 5 pm the Thursday before 
publication.
THETARTAN 268-2111

---------------------------------------------------

xUThe Tartan • Carnegie Mellon University • 18 September 1995
Untimely injuries plague 
All-American Tartan
By DARREN CHIAPPETTA
Tartan Staffwriter
If the word “student athlete” 
was listed in any dictionary, it’s a 
good bet there would be a picture 
of a smiling Aaron Neal holding 
books in one hand and a football 
• in the other. The senior co-cap­
tain has carried a 4.0 qpa in civil 
engineering over the last three 
years while becoming perhaps the 
school’s best tight end ever, in 
spite of injuries which ended his 
junior season prematurely and 
threaten to do so again this year.
But if you talk to Neal and 
those close to him, you see that 
individual awards aren’t what’s 
important to this native of Alli­
ance, Ohio. He deflects personal 
praise, choosing instead to talk 
about the team concept when dis­
cussing football, and shrugs off 
the suggestion that academic 
awards are anything special.
“I’d give up ev­
ery award to make 
it to the playoffs, 
to have a chance 
at the national 
championship,” 
he said. “I’m grate­
ful for the indi­
vidual honors, but 
team accomplish­
ments are more 
important.”
Neal has always 
seen the link be­
tween academics 
and athletics as 
important, saying 
that especially in 
college, football has provided him 
the means, for example, to effec­
tively budget his time. However, 
he is also able to separate the 
two, professing football as his first 
and everlasting love.
“Schoolwork is more important 
—when I’m doing that. When I’m 
at practice or in a game, that’s 
more important. Football’s been 
a release for me, and it’s some­
thing I still love to do.”
He has been the quintessential 
student-athlete while at Carnegie 
Mellon. He has never received a 
B here, and has made the dean’s 
list for six consecutive semesters. 
According to head coach Rich 
Lackner, Neal is “exactly what 
you want. He’s dependable, hard­
working and intelligent,” and of­
fensive coordinator Rich Erdelyi 
added, “he’s everythingyou could 
want in a college football player.”
Unfortunately for Carnegie 
Mellon, he’s been everythingyou 
could want, plus one thing. He’s 
been prone to freak injuries. He
Photo courtesy of Athletic Dept. 
Aaron Neal Is well-respected 
among his teamates.
American, 1994, 1995. GTE/ 
CoSIDA Football Academic All- 
American first team, 1994. Burger 
King Division III Scholar-Athlete 
of the Week, 1995.
That last award got him on 
national television, as he was fea­
tured along with the other divi­
sion scholar-athletes during half- 
time of ABC’s national college 
football coverage a week ago Sat­
urday afternoon.
Neal draws much of his inspi­
ration from his mother and fa­
ther, who haven’t missed a game, 
home or away, since his sopho­
more year. “They’ve been so sup­
portive of me [with] my academ­
ics, and especialy with football,” 
he said. “It probably makes me 
work a little harder.” His father, 
David, was also Aaron’s high 
school football coach.
That fact, according to Erdelyi, 
has helped make Neal the player 
he’s been. He had 29 receptions 
for 424 yards and two TD’s his 
sophomore year, 
and followed that 
up with 22 catches 
for 279 yards in 
just five games 
last year.
“Everything is 
instinctive with 
him,” he said. 
“He’s an excellent 
blocker, he knows 
how to get open. 
We’ll miss him a 
great deal.” It was 
Erdelyi who called 
Neal “the top tight 
end [at CMU] in 
the last 20 years.”
More important than the loss 
of Neal’s physical skills is. not 
having the presence he brought 
into the locker room. He’s been 
described by coaches and players 
as one of the more competitive 
and hard-working players on the 
team, intagibles that can’t be 
measured in boxscores.
“If there’s one person you can 
count on, in a football game or 
outside, it’s Aaron Neal. He’s a 
good leader,” said senior fullback 
Lee Anton.
Neal was so well-respected that 
he was voted captain by his team­
mates after last season. He said 
being named captain meant more 
to him than any of his other 
awards.
“I was very honored,” he said. 
“That’s what you play for, the 
respect of the guys you play with.”
If in fact his career for Carnegie 
Mellon has come to and end, Neal 
had no regrets.
“I’ve enjoyed my experience
missed the final six games last here. They’ve been good to me.
year after suffering a stress frac­
ture in his femur, and on CMU’s 
first play from scrimmage in last 
Saturday’s contest against Al­
legheny, Neal broke his left fibula 
while blocking when a pile of play­
ers rolled up on the back of his 
leg. Ironically, prior to his junior 
year at Carnegie Mellon, he had 
never missed a varsity game due 
to injury in high school or college.
“I can’t belive it happened two 
years in a row,” he said. “It’s very 
frustrating.”
The cast on his leg will remain 
on for another five weeks, virtu­
ally assuring that unless the Tar­
tans make it to the playoffs, Neal’s 
career is over. However, “Greasy,” 
as he had been nicknamed by 
Erdelyi isn’t willing to call it 
quits just yet.
“I’d love to have a reason to 
come back [if CMU makes the 
playoffs],” he said.
That will be a difficult task for 
the Tartans with their leading 
pass-catcher over the past two 
seasons on the sidelines. To make 
things worse, senior running back 
Mike Mathias, the other offen­
sive captain, is likely out for the 
year after he broke a bone in his 
foot in the same series Neal went 
down against Allegheny. Mathias 
accounted for 804 yards in total 
offense and scored 13 touchdowns 
last season, and was the Tartans’ 
leading rusher in their season 
opener against Franklin & 
Marshall.
Neal’s laundry list of accolades 
is as long as it is impressive. All- 
University Athletic Association, 
1993, 1994. Pre-season All-
Coack Lackner is probably one of 
the nicest guys I know, and 
coaches Bodnar [Terry, the de­
fensive coordinator] and Erdelyi 
are good teachers. I’ve had some 
great times with the guys here. 
It’s something I’ll never forget.”
Heisman trophy award has turned into a joke
HEISMAN, from page 9
the nation’s top teams. Which­
ever team finishes the highest 
in the polls will definitely be 
the favorite for the Heisman.
The only receivers or defend­
ers that have a chance at this 
year’s award are wide out 
Keyshawn Johnson and line­
backer Simeon Rice. USC’s 
Johnson is the best known 
player on a highly regarded 
team. He could look like a stable 
and valuable player on a team 
that alternates quarterbacks 
and running backs.
Rice, of Illinios, will become the 
Big Ten’s all-time sack leader this 
year. Not winning the Heisman 
won’t stop an NFL team from 
making him the first pick overall 
in the NFL draft.
Every year there is a darkhorse 
candidate, like last season’s Divi­
sion I-AA standout Steve McNair.
This year’s best non-main­
stream player could be Marcus 
Crandell, quarterback of the East 
Carolina Pirates. Crandell ran 
for 61 yards and passed for 392 
yards and all four Pirate touch­
downs in their 27—24 come from
behind win over then ranked #23 
Syracuse.
The last time the Pirates beat a 
nationally ranked team was in 
the 1992 Peach Bowl when cur­
rent Cincinnati Bengal quarter­
back Jeff Blake led them to a 37— 
34 win over North Carolina State.
The field is wide open in this 
year’s race for the Heisman. It’s 
possible that the Heisman win­
ner will be the first pick in the 
1996 draft. It’s possible that a 
defensive player will win the 
Heisman. It’s possible that the 
Heisman won’t go to the guy with
the big numbers, but the guy who 
did the most for his team.
Possible, but not likely. If his­
tory is any indicator, the only 
thing that is certain is that who­
ever wins the Heisman won’t de­
serve it.
Chris Cannon is hurt that he 
isn’t in the running for this year’s 
Heisman Trophy.
He only needs about 1,800 more 
yards in this year’s intramural 
football season, and he’ll be up 
there with the big boys. He only 
needs about 400yards per game.
Join WPXI - TV 11 Sportscaster
John Fedko
For
"Faith in the FedkoZone
!?
Wednesday September 20 Mass 6:15 pm Dinner 7:00pm Presentation 7:30pm
Ryan Catholic Newman Center 4450 Bayard Street 
MI-3181
It Takes A Lot Of Drive To Get Ahead,
(Not A Lot Of Money)
TOYOTA
TERCELMSRP Starting Under $10,500
SEE YOUR TOYOTA DEALER TODAY.
MSRP BASED ON TAX, TAGS, TITLE, FREIGHT, OPTIONAL & REGIONALLY REQUIRED EQUIPMENT. DEALER SETS FINAL PRICE.
® TOYOTA
I Love What You Do For Me

---------------------------------------------------

The Tartan • Carnegie Mellon University • 18 September 199513
Baseball causes a variety of emotions for sensitive columnist
Suicide Squeeze
by Anuj Gupta
Emotions - they are the undeniable 
characteristics which are special only to 
the human species. They are the back­
bone of our frailty and strength. Every­
one experiences them in one form or 
another, and they are often factors of 
differing antagonists. One aspect of life 
which has always brought out the best 
and worst of my emotions is (as you can 
guess), baseball.
Whether it be Roy Hobbs hitting the 
;ame winning home run or Mike Scott 
;hrowing a no-hitter to clinch the divi- 
lion for the Astros in 1986, baseball has 
always managed to carve some of the 
more memorable moments in my life. 
August of 1994 was no different, I felt 
othing but anger and despair for the 
jgame that once was.
It returned in the delayed spring of 
995, but things were never the same, 
[y feelings for the game as well as 
.ctions on the field all appeared to be 
alf-hearted. But on Wednesday, Sep- 
;ember 6, everything changed. Cal 
;ipken accomplished more than just 
¡breaking a record that was to ‘stand the
test of time.’ He showed us what is and 
can be good and decent about the game 
of baseball, and possibly returned faith 
to an entire generation of fans. His feat 
could not have come at a more opportune 
time, as pennant excitement was mini­
mal (aside from the interesting wild­
card races) and fan apathy was still at 
an all time high (the Twins played in 
front of a home crowd of barely 2,000).
Since that magical night, not only has 
my passion for the game been restored 
but my interest as well.
Let the playoffs begin.
The rich get richer:
The Atlanta Braves have 
just won their fourth con­
secutive division title.
One would expect that 
after a number of years of 
winning ball, the team 
would be coming near the 
end of its run, as aging 
players and expensive 
veterans (the common 
causes of the downfall of 
good teams) would soon be leaving.
Unfortunately (I am a Phillies fan), 
this is far from the truth with respect to 
the Braves. Chipper Jones should re­
ceive Rookie of the Year honors ( .265 
avg., 19 home runs, 75 RBIs). Dave Jus­
tice, Ryan Klesko, Javy Lopez and 
Marquiss Grissom are all under 30 years 
of age. John Smoltz, Steve Avery, Tom 
Glavine, Kent Mercker are all still young 
as well, and Greg Maddux may be the 
greatest pitcher - ever.
Despite all that, their farm system is 
far from dry. Rookie pitcher Jason
Schmidt is making it appear more 
than likely that the Braves will not 
resign slumping Steve Avery. Out­
fielder Andruw Jones also is waiting 
to be the next National League super- 
star (25 home runs, 56 steals, 100 
RBI’s). Pitchers Matt Murray and 
Terrell Wade are also promising play­
ers on the horizon. Does Ted Turner 
really want to include the team in the 
possible sale of Turner Enterprises ?
Washington Senators: I am not
^ Ryan Rhoades/Tartan Art Staff 
referring to the lowly organization of 
the 1950’s which eventually became 
the Houston Astros. I’m instead speak­
ing of the name to be given the Pitts­
burgh Pirates should they be moved to 
the northern Virginia area. I cannot 
say enough about what a mistake it 
would be for the ’Bucs to leave town. 
We aren’t just talking of a black mark 
left on major league baseball - the 
Pirates are a piece of American his­
tory, and whatever steps are neces­
sary to insure their home remain in 
Pittsburgh, should be taken.
Lady Tartans defeat Allegheny
OVERTIME, from page 9
The ball sailed over the goalie’s head 
and ricocheted solidly off of the top bar of 
the goal. It then bounced back into play, 
where it was kicked out of bounds by a 
Chicago back, setting up a CMU corner 
kick that the team was unable to use to 
their advantage. Neither team managed 
to control the ball for very long for the 
remainder of regular play, and the game 
entered overtime.
The Tartans came out hard at the 
start of the first overtime period, and 
junior Jill Sincaglia beat a defender to 
get off a nice shot to the low near corner 
of the goal, which the goalkeeper blocked. 
This began a UC offensive which put 
serious pressure on freshman goalkeeper 
Lindsay Smith. Smith stopped a UC 
forward’s breakaway run at goal with a 
slide tackle that knocked the ball out of 
play. Chicago quickly returned with 
another shot on goal, which Smith 
blocked with one hand, and caught off 
the bounce before it went into the net. 
CMU turned the tide against UC as an 
offensive drive led by sophomore for­
wards Lauren DeRosset and Kim Umeda 
caught the UC backs offguard. DeRosset, 
under pressure from the defense, took a 
long shot at goal. The ball bounced over 
the goalkeeper’s head and toward the 
open net. The goalkeeper raced back­
wards against Umeda and caught the 
ball before Umeda could strike. CMU 
controlled the ball in the UC end for the 
remainder of the first overtime period, 
but was unable to score.
The second overtime period opened 
again with a strong CMU offensive, with 
Poisson and senior midfielder Maria 
Casella pressuring the UC defenders. 
Chicago came back strong, as a forward
broke through the CMU defensive line 
and put it in the goal on a short kick. 
CMU kept on the pressure for the re­
mainder of the match, but was frus­
trated by the UC defense until the end of 
the period, ending the game with a 1-0 
Chicago win.
Coach Ann Haggerty felt that even 
though the team has lost two games in 
the UAA, they were both hard-fought 
overtime contests that showed that the 
team is highly competitive in the league.
“We just have to start putting away 
some of some of our scoring opportuni­
ties” said Haggerty. “We just have to cut 
down on defensive mistakes that teams 
like Case and Chicago take advantage 
of.”
Haggerty felt that midfielder Karlie 
Radford played strongly and won a lot of 
balls, and DeRosset also played well on 
the offensive line.
CMU’s loss comes after a strong 1-0 
win over Allegheny College at home on 
Wednesday night. The first half of the 
match-up was marked by midfield fight­
ing for possession of the ball, but CMU 
took charge early on in the second half. 
Minutes into the half, Sincaglia passed 
to Poisson. She passed off to Umeda who 
put it in the net for the only goal of the 
game. Allegheny struggled to get back 
into the game for the remainder of the 
half, but CMU remained in control until 
time ran out.
Haggerty said that “[Allegheny] is a 
very athletic, aggressive team. We just 
played more aggressively.” She also 
noted that the team retained control of 
the ball for most of the game.
The team hosts Catholic University at 
7:30 pm on Friday. The team then trav­
els to Hiram College on Sunday.
Get out of the cluster. 
It's time to cut the cord. 
Burn your suits, 
i Get a job.
GORDIAN^
CS, ECE and EE graduates: If you have not already signed up to 
interview with Gordian at the Career Center, please email 
your resume immediately to recruit@gordian.com. 
Stop by and see us at the TOC on Thursday September 21.
Info Session:
Monday, October 30 
7 pm, Student Center, Room 210
Interviews:
Tuesday, October 31
20361 Irvine Ave. Santa Ana Heights, CA 92707-5637 
(714)850.0205/ (714)850.0533 (fax)
They see the next generation of ultrasound technology. As a worldwide leader in 
the development, manufacture, distribution and service of diagnostic medical ultra­
sound systems, ATL is dedicated to the innovation and development of ultrasound 
technology that broadens its clinical applications while reducing the cost and trauma of 
diagnosis and treatment. Our people also see the most advanced design and manufac­
turing tools available and a level of personal satisfaction that is hard to find. Entry level 
opportunities now exist in the following areas for new grads.
SOFTWARE 
DEVELOPMENT
m
• System Architecture
• Digital Signal Processing
• User Interface/Ciinical Applications
• Design Analysis & Validation 
•Toolsand Integration
Entry-level positions require a BSCS/EE or MSCS/EE and software development knowl­
edge in C/C++ in a UNIX/ embedded systems environment. Knowledge of Make, Shell 
scripts, x-window tool kits, and UNIX utilities (Awk, Yacc, Sed, etc) is a definite plus.
ATL is located in Washington State, just 30 minutes northeast of downtown 
Seattle. Considered by many to be one of the most desirable places to live in America, 
the Puget Sound region boasts some of the most spectacular scenery in the world.
Please visit us at the Technology Opportunity Conference on Thursday, 
September 21st, to find out more about these opportunities.
ATL offers a team-oriented environment with competitive, comprehensive benefits 
including a 401 (k) and tuition reimbursement. If you are unable to attend please send 
resume to: Advanced Technology Laboratories, P0 Box 3003, 22100 Bothell-Everett 
Highway, Bothell, WA 98041-3003. ATTN: CMU. ATL maintains a smoke and drug 
free workplace. Equal Opportunity Employer.
We ;Te linT;gstud
Celebrate Tradition
With aBalfour Class Ring!
College memories can last a life- 
time, when they’re preserved in a 
W* Balfour Class Ring. Sports, 
academics, degrees, years of 
graduation and custom school 
designs can all be captured in your 
Balfour Class Ring...a tradition of 
excellence since 1913!
Wednesday & Thursday 
September 20th and 21st 
10:00 - 3:00 PM 
Baker Hall 
$35.00 Deposit
Balfour® No one remembers WH WH many ways.
Do you want to meet the challenge?
Through the TALENTS of its people, the 
soundness of its strategies and the QUALITY 
of its products and services, Diebold, Incorporated, 
and its joint venture with International Business 
Machines Corporation, called InterBold, are meeting 
the challenge to be a world leader in all its 
markets. To manage further GROWTH, we need 
graduates who bring energy and information 
to help keep us ahead of the technology curve.
We are Interested In finding out more about you. 
Please write and tell us about yourself.
Diebold, Incorporated 
5995 Mayfair Road 
North Canton, Ohio 44720 
Attn: John Gotch 
Manager, Human Resources 
Corporate
DIEBOLD
InterBold 
P.O. Box 3091 
North Canton, Ohio 44720 
Attn: Tim Michalk 
Manager, Human Resources 
InterBold
InterBold
A Partnership oI Diebold and IBM Companies
Diebold, Incorporated, is a world leader in self-service transaction systems, 
security products and customer service. The Company develops, manufactures, 
sells and services automated teller machines (ATMs), electronic and physical 
security systems, bank facility equipment, software and integrated systems for 
the global financial and non-financial markets.
EOE-mWv

---------------------------------------------------

PIZZA OUTLET
Tailored to your hometown taste
CMCI/OAKLAND
FREE DELIVERY
TpER8 xJK ONE TOPPING Y8ThH8E8Y
PIZZA ONE COUPON PER ORDER. PLEASE OUTLET MENTION COUPON WHEN ORDERING.
“ NOT VALID WITH ANY OTHER OFFER.

---------------------------------------------------

Volume 90, Issue 3The Tartan. Carnegie Mellon University. Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania18 September 1995
T TT TT1 T rSm Li nranin Lvi nra
LlVllllj
The price of education:
Students fight for threatened financial aid
By SHARMILA VENKATASUBBAN
Tartan Staffwriter
“Federal funding put me over the top. I wouldn’t be here 
without it,” said Holly Gabrielson, an undeclared freshman 
in Humanities and Social Sciences.
“That extra $1500-$2500 makes a difference in the cost of 
education to many students,” she added.
The proposed cuts in the federal government’s funding for 
colleges and universities are a growing concern for many 
students at Carnegie Mellon in regards to the 1996-1997 
school year and whether or not they will be able to afford the 
costs of their education.
“If all the proposed cuts occur, which typically does not 
happen, I believe that Carnegie Mellon would continue to 
offer competitive packages of financial aid to our students,” 
said the Director of Financial Aid, Linda Anderson.
“These are proposed cuts that would affect colleges and 
students across the nation,” she added.
Such cuts would be the result of attempts to meet budget 
resolutions by the federal government, affecting federal 
campus-based programs, from loans to grants and scholar­
ships in 1996-1997, depending on the decisions made by the 
House and Senate in the next three weeks.
“The House has gone through appropriations and Senate 
is going through them right now,” said Anderson.
While Anderson’s sources say that programs such as the 
Supplemental Educational Oppurtunity Grant and Federal 
Work Study will remain at level funding, it is not sure what 
will happen to Pell Grant Program, the Perkins Loan FCC 
or Interest Subsidized Stafford Student Loans.
“I honestly believe that this [proposed cuts in the Perkins 
Loan] will not affect us significantly,” said Anderson. “The 
Perkins Loan is a revolving fund,” she added. “We receive 
$500,000 [from the government] annu-, 
ally which we offer to students as J -tfTL1 
loans in addition to those funds 
which students repay annu­
ally.”
• While a possible cut
i n 
federal aid 
might hurt the 
school’s ability to offer 
the loan, it wouldn’t be elimi­
nated because one-third of the funds 
are provided by the school as well as the 
repayments from students.
“The main reason I’m at CMU is because I’m 
getting money from the school, not from federal 
funds,” said Shana Reade, a freshman student in
H&SS.
“The government decided that I could afford the total 
costs of my education, which isn’t true,” she said. Reade’s 
main source of financial aid is funds provided by CMU 
rather than the government.
“While any cuts wouldn’t directly affect me since 
I’m more dependent upon the school, those funds 
allocated to me through the school might 
go to someone a bit more needy than me, 
then I wouldn’t be able to afford this 
school,” she said.
“The cuts are ridiculous because I think 
that a college education is a vital part 
of existing in society today. If we 
make it difficult to afford one, 
then we’re just creating a 
vicious cycle,” said Reade. i
Some students f§el that 
limiting opportunities for fi­
nancial aid will affect enroll­
ment for the upcoming year as
well as retention rates, due to tuition costs at CMU.
“It will put people who want to go to CMU at a disadvantage,” 
said Simone Gill, a junior psychology major. “Students with the
ex- 
o f 
for 
gradu- 
graduate - 
who apply 
aid is in the 
dized and 
student loans.
If affected by 
sidized Stafford 
nated, meaning 
will no longer pay 
dent loans while 
school or during 
period to follow.
“As for the loss 
Stafford Loans, it 
approximately 
ing on the cumu- 
borrow,” said 
“We will still 
unsubsidized 
Students 
will just 
terest on the 
tending 
such as 
sophomore 
major, pay- 
be a big is- 
terest now, 
would have 
pay for 
“I think 
think twice
to go to less 
The majority 
funding 
under- 
ates and 
. students 
for financial 
form of subsi- 
unsubsidized
the cuts, then sub­
loans will be elimi- 
that the government 
the interest on stu- 
the student is in 
the six month grace
of interest subsidy for 
would cost the student 
$2000-$3000 depend- 
lative amount that they 
Anderson.
have access to the 
loans, 
and families 
have to pay in­
loans while at- 
school.” For students 
Christine Hou, a 
' information systems 
ing that interest will 
sue. “I don’t pay in- 
but if I did, then I 
to get a job to help 
school,” she said, 
that people would 
about getting loans,
if they didn’t have the option of applying for subsidized 
loans,” said Gill.
Judging from the 'rally for Financial Aid at which A1 
Gore addressed students of colleges and universities in 
the surrouding Pittsburgh area, senior biology ma­
jor Liz Morgan feels that CMU students do not 
show enough interest in supporting causes that 
affect their education. “The rally was disappoint­
ing,” she said.
“I was upset at the crowd. We looked so 
apathetic and it counts when shown on 
television. If we don’t show real support, 
then it looks like we don’t care,” she 
added.
flf ^ “It’s a shame that education has
» ^ become so expensive,” said se-
i fa nior art major Rob Weiss.
f 1 - YL Weiss added, “The value of
^IIP JEaa™ education is only pushed in 
theory, not practically, not 
monetarily.' It’s just an­
other example of how far 
down education stands 
on the government’s hi­
erarchy of importance.”
Francine Gemperle/Tartan Art Co-Editor
H

---------------------------------------------------

TUb4, boaeoI 7 SoaI,CM, 5,mmrI LIM-,a3Me9 7 x• 0,ne,Nd,a xff.
Unresolved parking situation frustrates student drivers
By SUSAN WATSON
Tartan Staffwriter
Bringing your car to school seems like 
a pretty good idea when 
you think about it.
However, the lengths 
that a CMU student must 
go through to officially get 
the car parked are baffling.
The parking debate has 
been going on for quite 
some time now, and many 
angry students feel that 
something must be done 
to accommodate their 
parking needs.
“The whole parking sys­
tem at this school is just 
bad,” said Paul Pon- 
chamni, a junior informa­
tion systems major.
“The parking office 
wastes too much time, so I 
don’t even deal with them.
It’s cheaper for me to pay 
tickets than to actually get 
a parking permit,” he said.
Though Ponchamni is 
apathetic now, he explains 
that he once was persis­
tent in his pursuit of a 
parking space.
Ponchamni said, “When I applied 
freshman year for parking, I was put on 
the waiting list. I went every week to see 
when I would get off of the waiting list 
and they always said, ‘real soon.’ Two 
years have gone by and I’m still on the 
waiting list.”
Darlene Ailing, a senior political sci­
ence major, has a different plight. She 
complained so much that she finally did 
get a parking space—in a parking lot off 
campus.
get to school. I was put on the waiting 
list when school started, and finally I 
was taken off the waiting list, butfthe 
space I got is located in Dithridge Ga-
that I indicated on my parking applica­
tion, and now I have to pay the conse­
quence by walking to campus. It hasn’t 
been so bad for the past few days, but it 
is one hell of a walk.”
Aside from the lack of parking avail­
ability on campus and the tedious pro­
cess of being taken off of the waiting list,
parking spaces that are on campus. I 
mean, I want to pay for parking, but I 
can’t get a space in a lot,” she said.
“No undergraduate gets allocated 
parking in the initial allocation run. If 
you are an undergraduate returning to 
school and have applied for parking, you 
can assume that you are on a waiting
students are angry about other facets of list. If you had parking last year there is 
the parking system as well. no guarantee that you will get it this
Laima Bashir, a
“I live off campus and I need my car to
Jason Siegendorf/Tartan Photo Staff Manager 
Some students drive around for half an hour looking for 
a parking space on Margaret Morrison Street.
rage. It’s two minutes away from my 
house. What is the point of me shelling 
out all this money for parking when it’s 
near my house and I still have to walk 10 
minutes to campus?” she asked.
Based on that rationale, Ailing de­
cided not to accept her allotted space 
and was consequently put on the wait­
ing list for those students who were 
given a space and didn’t want it because 
of the inconveniences it caused.
Ailing said, “They try to accommo­
date, but they don’t. They gave me a 
space that wasn’t in one of the three lots
sophomore industrial 
management major 
said, “I’ve gotten a 
parking ticket almost 
every day I’ve been 
here, but the thing 
that makes no sense 
to me is that I can’t get 
off of the waiting list 
and yet, I had a space 
last year.”
“Another thing that pisses me off is 
that they don’t tell you if you have a 
space until you get here. What if you’re 
from across the United States and you 
come here with a car and there isn’t a 
place you can park it? The fact that they 
tell you the first day of classes is a really 
big inconvenience and it’s just another 
thing you have to worry about,” said 
Bashir.
Ponchamni agrees. He said, “For stu­
dents who don’t have the luxury of park­
ing where they want, they have to take 
away from their studies by running out 
and putting change in the meter or wor­
rying about where the safest place is to 
park their car.”
Perry Hatcher, a senior history and 
policy major, has a parking dilemma of 
her own.
“This is the first year I’ve had a car on 
campus, and it’s a 1988 wood-paneled 
custom cruiser station wagon. And it’s 
so big I can’t fit it in the few parallel
"The parking office wastes too much time, 
so I don’t even deal with them. It’s cheaper 
for me to pay tickets then to actually get a 
parking permit.”
— Paul Ponchamni, junior IS major
year, however, the longer you are here, 
the better your chances of getting the 
parking place you want,” said Stoughton.
Stoughton does believe that there are 
flaws in the system. She said, “The com­
puter system itself and the way the 
information we depend on is imported 
from SIS and HRIS systems is not al­
ways complete. Some students have two 
social security numbers and some PANs 
aren’t put through on time. Those types 
of things have room for improvement.”
It is evident that changes need to be 
made, but what exactly are those 
changes? “If they’re not going to add lots 
to park in, they definitely need to en­
compass more areas with their shuttle 
system. The application deadline should 
be bumped up so that you can find out if 
you have a space before you get here, 
and there definitely needs to be more car 
pooling with faculty and with students,” 
said Ailing.
The possibility of new lots cropping up 
on campus seems unlikely at this point.
Stoughton said, “There are no new sur­
face areas for lots being considered that 
I know of. The only place where we 
might be able to add parking is to the- 
garage by putting on one more floor. I 
have reservations about this for the fol­
lowing reason: As you know, parking is 
an auxiliary at CMU. That means that 
CMU spends nothing to support park­
ing. Parking is entirely run by the fees.
we charge. We are still 
paying for the garage 
and adding another 
level would probably 
increase the already 
high parking rates we 
pay.”
Stoughton feels that 
improvements can be 
made in other areas. 
—B—PH— “I believe that we
need to offer people alternatives to driv: 
ing. Van pools, car pools, reaching an 
agreement with PAT to let all CMU 
people ride the buses. We need to find 
some off-campus locations where stu*> 
dents can park their cars for the week* 
and get them on weekends. Those are 
the types of options we need. I am cuiv 
rently working on some of these issues 
but it is hard to get people to leave their 
cars behind,” Stoughton said.
Beverly Stoughton, the Director ofcj 
Parking, said that parking is allotted by 
seniority at CMU. Faculty and staff are 
first, graduate students follow, com­
muter students are assigned by class, 
and finally, resident students are also 
allotted spaces by class.
No one knows if the parking dilemma 
will be solved in the near or distant 
future, but staff and students seem to 
agree with Alling’s statement that,: 
“There is a high demand for student 
parking and the school just isn’t meet-, 
ing it.”
Immigration Services
All Visas • Permanali Residency • Natural i/uli.on
Ventresca & Ventresca1
Mli'iüi \ - .il I ..ii\ 
555 ( ii.un Si reti • Sink* 
hn-hiiL'li • TV • I52l‘>!
Ukrainian Renaissance Fair
Cathedral of Learning 
University of Pittsburgh, Oakland
I Buy 3 Varenyky and get 1 free, with coupon
Pilone: 261 »5.166B1 o;i“d
Pii \ : 26 1 •5.16‘tl Sept. 23 & 24. I 995 Noon - 6 PM
ARE YOU A TWIN?
Join Pitt Twin Study 
Healthy twins ages 18-27 may qualify 
Earn over $80 each 
Call 624-9106
DOMINO'S
DELIVERS THEULTIMATE
DEALS!
o
</>
F
z <s
S W 
O N 
a o.
Buy any Deep 
Dish Pizza at 
regular price and 
get an order of 
buffalo wings for 
$1.99!
Coupon not valid with any other offer.Otter valid with coupon on*. V a W it participant 
cart* oofy. PikM rnrfnr, Cojasur piyt >»l«i in *h»r* apjscaMa. Our tfrtv*« «fry I*« tS*9 
OOaLCwfcv»!« VXt was tanw tfiai. Inc.
I
ULTIMATE 
DEEP DISH 
$9.99
681-1700
315 N Craig St. 
llam-2am Sun-Thur 
11am-3am Fri-Sat 
Campus Express Accepted 
Visa & Mastercard
Now Hiring Drivers and Piemakers
INLY -------------------------^
COUPON 
CRUSHER
We will accept 
any competitor's 
coupons up to a 
$5.00 value!
©1995 DOMINO S PIZZA. INC LIMITED TIME ONLY PURCHASE RE0UIRE0 OFFER MAY VARY PARTICIPATING STORES ONLY
Get one large 
one-topping 
pizza and a two- 
liter of Coke for 
$7.99!
Coupon not valid whh any other ««or. Otti' vii-1 vnth coupon or.* V*M it participating nor« ont». Hon ii may viry. Ciatomaf payi ial«i tu »Mil ippEcabia. Our 4da cany lata Dun Ctun Citì v»Uä 1/nLfit« Doraia'i run. Ine
I
$9.99 ® Get a medium
^Medium Deep ^ o n e-to p p i n g
I
I Dish Pizza with I pizza for only I
I three toppings of I $5.99!
I your choice. I I
| (Make it a large for | |
h only $3.00 more!) o
Cowpaanol ««»d wW. mmyotter offer. |0<l«r»»fcdwO<co»ponon* Vafcd c ptfDoMang _ cam ortf. Me« any rey Zocsmt payi Mi»« Q Kj appiatto. 0or *nwi carry Im 0»o 
I BUI Cm* tHa*.bc.Li
Ca^MBMnMwWi anyOtto rtái w*h ctupon on* VU* it Mr««*»*?OHM oo* Prtcn may vwy Cueeew p«yt ini 
in «ter* «ppfcatto. Ox Ortrtei cany ku Sun am Cari. atoa Vm. CM Do-n»'i ñcn. toeQUO Ce6 r*W l/ftOMItan'i tea. me
Get two medium 
two-topping piz­
zas for only 
$10.95!
i >|M rrth coupon on* ViM II parocipitmg il oc*. Pncaa ma» *iry Ciatoew pay» ulti ¦Mil appicabto. Our dnvari carry Mu than 
B Ccah t/29». ûltS Dnn i Par». In:
Get two 1 2" 
Super Subs for 
$9.99!
Coupon not valid with any etbar offa».Otto vaEd «Öl coupon on*. Via« it parócaisng «torw only. Prit«! may vary. Cuttww piyi uiat ln. »*m ijpiictói«. Oar dirvtr* carry lau than GU& Cohvikj» Wfle.®1935 Dtrwne’i Pia». Inc.
UNLIMITED 
SPECIAL $9.99 
One medium un­
limited-topping 
pizza (no double 
toppings, please)
Coupon not valid with any otfcor off»«. Ml- vabd with coupon on* Valid at participating itsria on*. Pncil may vary. Cuitonxr pay» ulaa tu «fttra a»p¡* «SU. 0» drr.ir» ciny lata thin 
BOOX C*th .»ki« VX*. C1« Oorts»'» Ptai, Inc.
$1.00 OFF
any medium 
one-or-more- 
topping pizza!
Coupon not valid wtth any «im.
0ft»« vikd with coupon on* Viad at piiDcigaong lOraa on* Pncaa may .ary Cuitar*! pay» urn tu a*«» appbcablt Our fmn ciriy Ian min 
tS (D. Caih Mto* Cup OlflS Dom» a Ptua. Inc.
Buy a large two- 
or-more-topprng 
pizza at regular 
price and get a 
medium one- 
topping pizza 
FREE!
Coupon not »«lid with any othar offnr. Oflir viSd wfli coupon on*. Va&d II («rtopi&ng «tor«» only. Prieat nay viiy. CutHcar piy* tilt» tit whtio applica#». Our drivais carry lit» than 
JSOCe. Cuhvakj* WOf.OIWDaoa»'» Più», ine
Two large two- 
topping pizzas 
for only $14.99!
Coupon not valid wttfc 0fln va&d ut* coupon on* Vakd at paiocipaong iiorai on*. Pncai may vary. Cu tvodo pay» um tax Mrtwa appJtcibl« Our dmin ciny l*n than ssm Cath >«U 1/20«. ClflS Oonto'a Pttu. Inc.
$2.00 OFF
any large one- 
or-more-top- 
ping pizza!
Coupon not valid any otfca* off»«.0fla< vakd ««i coupon on* Va»d at paitKoaOng itsrai on*. Pncai may <ary Cuitarrxi pay» u*i tu nhira lÿÿxiM Our dmin eery Ira than 
SQ Ob Cith «toa 1/St CI« Oomtt a Fbu. he.

---------------------------------------------------

b4, boaeoI 7 SoaI,CM, 5,mmrI LIM-,a3Me9 7 x• 0,ne,Nd,a xff.Tk
Greeks intoxicate student body with social opportunities
By JILLIAN WATKINS
Tartan Junior Staffwriter
So what’s all the Rush about? 
For two straight weeks, students 
interested in joining fraternities 
and sororities at CMU have been 
rushing. The word “Rush” can 
almost be equated with partying, 
since this is essentially what rush- 
ees (prospective members of 
Greek organizations), do.
Rush is a time for potential 
members to sell themselves to 
the house which they hope to 
pledge, gain an understanding of 
what goes on within each sepa­
rate house, and become ac­
quainted with the various rituals 
and ideals that all of the houses 
have in common.
JRushing is described by rush- 
ees as a “bonding experience,” 
and as one of the most exciting 
events on campus within the be­
ginning of the school year. Carl
Morales, a sophomore chemistry/ 
economics major who is 
rushing Sigma Alpha Epsi­
lon, said, “There is much 
more to CMU than study­
ing.”
He, like many other 
members of the Greek . 
community, said that /
fraternities and so­
rorities offer a posi­
tive outlet in which 
there is a very 
lively and animated 
social scene.
“The fraternity and so­
rority scene may not be 
for everyone, but everyone 
should try it.” said senior 
Pamela Wilson, anindustrial 
design major in Delta Gamma.
“Rushing holds no obliga­
tion. It is just a chance for 
people to meet one another 
and get a feel for the different 
houses since each house is differ­
ent. The close-knit environments 
which these organizations 
provide are unique, com­
forting, and very support­
ive when one needs a place 
to go on a high-stressed 
campus such as CMU,” 
said Wilson.
Walking down 
Morewood Ave., one 
may have noticed 
•that 
CMU’s 
campus was 
converted overnight 
into several different 
places. The great col­
umns of the Greek 
Parthenon stood tall and 
welcomed bright-eyed 
guests who were greeted 
by the toga-wrapped 
brothers of the Pi 
Kappa Alpha frater­
nity.
Other creative theme parties
included the Heaven and Hell 
party thrown at Delta Tau Delta. 
Here, visitors could either enter 
the gates of heaven and party on 
the first floor, or descend to the 
basement, which was represen­
tative of Hell.
Besides partying and offering 
students on CMU’s campus an 
active social setting, fraternities 
and sororities offer an opportu­
nity to gain leadership skills 
through social interaction.
Janine Coppola, coordinator of 
residence life for Greek affairs, 
said, “Fraternities and sororities 
were founded over 100 years ago 
at different colleges throughout 
the country to offer academic sup­
port, friendships, and opportuni­
ties to serve the community and 
leadership. Today, the values of 
fraternity and sorority member­
ship remain unchanged. We [the 
Greek community], values things 
such as honor, integrity, scholas­
tic achievement, responsibility, 
and support.”
Gina Schuyler and Natalie 
Moyer, sisters in Delta Gamma, 
said that the val­
ues that Coppola 
noted have 
remained 
unchanged.
“Involvement in frats 
and sororities help to build 
self-confidence and the so­
cial skills needed to work as a 
team and reach a goal. So­
rorities anchor people to­
gether,” said Schulyer and 
Moyer.
Overall, they have thor­
oughly enjoyed the experi­
ence of meeting different 
people since “diversity brings 
unity.”
Many members of the 
Greek community believe 
that anyone who is “pro-group 
oriented,” and feels that they need
a tight and secure niche should 
think about joining a 
fraternity or sorority.
Senior informa­
tion systems major 
Roy Casali, a mem­
ber of Pi Kappa Al- 
| pha, said, “My fra- 
% temity kept me
^ at Carnegie 
Mellon. My fra- 
i ternity brothers 
^ were willing to of- 
^ fer me friendly 3 advice and look 
^ after me just like 
a family.”
% Students who 
are interested 
in extending 
their social connec­
tions by rushing 
have a multitude of 
“families” to choose 
from, since CMU has 
13 fraternities and 5 sororities.
Constitution denies women representation through sexist language
Cracking the Myth
by Suzanne Paddock
“We hold these truths to be self-evi­
dent, that all men are created equal, 
that they are endowed by their Creator 
with certain inalienable Rights, that 
among these are Life, Liberty and the 
pursuit of Happiness. That to secure 
these rights, Governments are instituted 
among Men, deriving their just powers 
from the consent of the governed,” reads 
tl)e beginning of the Declaration of Inde­
pendence. Disturbingly, the word 
“yramen” does not appear in any part of
the Constitution. Even in the Nineteenth 
Amendment which provides suffrage for 
women, the word “women” is omitted.
The amendment reads “The right of 
citizens of the United States to vote 
shall not be denied or abridged by the 
United States or by any State on account 
of sex”. The Nineteenth Amendment 
states that a person cannot be denied 
the right to vote because of their sex, but 
what does the absence ofthe word women 
in this amendment and in the entire 
Constitution imply? How about second- 
class citizenry?
In the ‘70s, women’s rights activists 
lobbied states to adopt the ERA, the 
Equal Rights Amendment. Unbeliev­
ably, not enough states ratified the ERA 
for it to become an amendment to the 
Constitution. Many people believed and 
still believe that the 1972 Federal Equal 
Opportunity law which provides the right 
for equal pay for equal work negates the 
need for an equal rights amendment.
But, despite this law, women still only 
receive, on average, 71 cents for every 
dollar men make. Also, the Equal Op­
portunity law excludes many other types 
of opportunity discrimination that an 
equal rights amendment would entail.
Members of NOW, the National Orga­
nization for Women, continue to lobby 
and revise the ERA, now referred to as 
the Constitutional Equality Amend­
ment. The Constitutional Equality 
Amendment includes the right that all 
persons “shall have equal rights and 
privileges without discrimination on 
account of sex, race, sexual orientation, 
marital status, ethnicity, national ori­
gin, color or indigence.” It prohibits “preg­
nancy discrimination and guarantees 
the absolute right of a woman to make 
her own reproductive decisions includ­
ing the termination of pregnancy.”
The Constitutional Equality Amend­
ment would also require the govern­
ment to draft men and women into the
military. Many people believe that 
women should not engage in combat 
because they are physically and men­
tally weaker, and that instead, women 
need to be protected.
This is an interesting notion since one 
out of four college women is raped, one 
out of four married women is a victim of 
domestic violence, and eight out of ten 
murder victims are women.
Women face additional horrors dur­
ing war, when they are left at home to 
provide not only for themselves, but for 
their children as well. Bosnia provides 
the best example of this. While men are 
off facing the horrors of war, women are 
raped, beaten, and murdered.
Yet, many women believe that being 
prohibited from entering the military is 
a blessing. But the military offers people, 
who would not have the means or the 
opportunity for vocational training which 
would allow them to earn a decent in­
come and have the potential of estab­
lishing a career. So women could become 
economically stable and suited for the 
job market instead of getting pregnant 
at age 17 and being forced on welfare 
because they can’t find a decent job that 
would cover the costs of daycare.
The opposition towards an equal 
rights amendment is absurd. It is the 
most blatant denial of the supposed be­
lief that men and women are equal in 
this country. How can women be viewed 
as anything but second-class citizens 
when government officials want to take 
away affirmative action, cut welfare, 
and limit the accessibility of abortions?
Maybe if women were put into the 
Constitution and their equality was in­
sured under federal law, we wouldn’t 
need such things as affirmative action 
and we wouldn’t have to worry about 
Republicans taking away our rights.
Suzanne Paddock is a senior English 
major.
Pain reliever/Fever reducer
INDICATIONS: For the temporary relief ofminor aches and pains associated withtne common cold, headache, toothache, mus- 
r r aches, backache, for the minor paw ° arthritis, for the pain of menstrual amPs, and for reduction of fever.
SUMMER'S OVER.
Thank goodness there’s Advil.® Advanced medicine for pain'.”
Advil contains ibuprofen. Use only as directed. 01954 Whitehall Laboratories. Madison.N J.
School of Computer Science
Dean’s List Spring 1995
The School of Computer Science Proudly Acknowledges The 
Academic Achievement Of The Following Undergraduates 
Who Have Been Named To The Dean's List
Allard, EdwardSeniorLitvak, EmileJunior
Almeida, MarcusFreshmanMcBarron, BrianSophomore
Anichini, StevenSophomoreMitzel, DavidFreshman
Bowling, MichaelSophomoreMixter, KennethFreshman
Brown, AlonJuniorMoore, JonathanSenior
Buckley, MatthewFreshmanMukhtar, SaleemSophomore
Chan, KinJuniorNg, AndrewJunior
Chemel, BrianSophomoreNg, YuFreshman
Cheney, JamesFreshmanNolan, WilliamFreshman
Cheng, GordonFreshmanOng, Han MingSenior
Cheng, Li-LunFreshmanPartington, BrantSophomore
Chiang, Kuo ChiangJuniorPerrig, AdrianJunior
Cokus,¿ShawnSeniorRaposa, RobertSophomore
Comer, KatherineFreshmanRatanamahatana, ChotiratFreshman
Davenport, AndrewFreshmanRaymond, ScottFreshman
Desai, RaviJuniorRungsarityotin, WasineeJunior
Durfee, GlennSophomoreSegerlind, NathanJunior
Findler, RobertSeniorSilverman, MarkSophomore
Fink, SteveSeniorSimon, StanJunior
Folk-Williams, BenSophomoreSiri, AaronSenior
Gleason, ToddJuniorSo, ChunJunior
Hamlen, KevinFreshmanSyme, PhilSenior
Hanekamp, DavidSeniorTanawongsuwan, RawesakJunior
Hansma, ScottFreshmanTangmunarunkit, HongsudaSophomore
Hari, PradipFreshmanThomas, RyanJunior
Hickman, FrankSophomoreTurco, ArthurSophomore
Ho, JeffreySophomoreUtsumi, GenJunior
Hoffman, ChristianJuniorVizer, LisaFreshman
Horwiiz, JeremySophomoreWahila, DerekSenior
Huber, DavidFreshmanWalker, KevinJunior
Jensen, MarkFreshmanWarwick, JohnSophomore
Kamieniecki, KrzysztofJuniorWatson, DavidSophomore
Kienzle, JorgJuniorWhite, MatthewJunior
Klivans, AdamJuniorWiegley, DouglasJunior
Kramer, NicholasJuniorWu, LeejayFreshman
Lertaneksin, WuttipongFreshmanYoder, AndrewSophomore
Lim, TianSeniorZdancewic, StephanJunior
Lin, VictorSeniorZitnick, CharlesJunior

---------------------------------------------------

Are you looking for a job? 
Or are you looking for the opportunity of a lifetime?
TRILOGY
Why is working at Trilogy such an incredible opportunity? We are the nation’s
fastest growing software Company, and we are dramatically changing the 
way products are bought and sold. Our patented technology enables corporations 
to achieve new levels of profitability, customer satisfaction and competitive 
advantage. Fortune 500 companies, including AT&T, Hewlett-Packard and Boeing, 
have embraced our software to drive their sales re-engineering initiatives.
Ranked one of Fortune’s 25 Coolest Companies, Trilogy offers recent 
college graduates a level of responsibility that can not be matched anywhere else. 
With this responsibility comes hard work, but it also brings big rewards. If you have 
the intelligence and drive to succeed in one of the most aggressive environments in 
the high tech industry, then you belong at Trilogy.
We’ll be on campus Thursday, September 21st 
10 am - 4 p.m. Technical Opportunities Conference 
7 p.m. -8 pm Info Session, Student Center room 205
TRILOGY
ONLY the BEST
6034 West Courtyard Drive »Austin, Texas 78730 
512. 794.5900 ext. 400 • www.trilogy.com

---------------------------------------------------

From Penguins to clippers, Pittsburgh offers premiere entertainment
- "ifaViT. fr "r ^ ^unique location on Pittsburgh’s ~"'T-.y wiiiiBy
b4, boaeoI 7 SoaI,CM, 5,mmrI LIM-,a3Me9 7 x• 0,ne,Nd,a xff. T.
Jason Siegendorf/Tartan Photo Staff Manager 
[The Fort Pitt Bridge, Point State Park, and Three Rivers Stadium create a memorable scene ¡n the city.
^By TRICIA DAVIS
;¦Tartan Staffwriter
I Many of us at CMU, especially 
-those of us from larger urban 
j Renters, spend a considerable 
¦amount of time complaining 
ikbout the lack of opportunities 
•for entertainment in Pittsburgh 
•; The popular perception among 
Students seems to be that the city 
Jias little to offer in terms of di­
version. However, contrary to 
popular belief, Pittsburgh has 
'much to offer the truly adventur- 
; ¿us individuals seeking creative 
[forms of entertainment.
'•! In the Oakland area, you can 
^visit the Carnegie Museum and 
'jhe Carnegie Museum of Art lo­
cated on Forbes Avenue and Craig 
J5treet.
The Museum’s permanent art 
collection includes 19th- and 
20th-century American paint­
ings, French Impressionist, Post- 
Impressionist, as well as contem­
porary American and European 
works.
While you’re in Oakland, stop 
by the Nationality Rooms, located 
in the University of Pittsburgh’s 
Cathedral of Learning, which 
isalso on Forbes Avenue. This 
intricately-designed structure 
houses unique rooms decorated 
according to various nationali­
ties.
Across the street from CMU’s 
Porter Hall are Flagstaff Hill and 
Phipps Conservatory. Flagstaff 
Hill is a great place to go in the 
summer when the city shows free 
movies twice every week.
Phipps Conservatory, which 
features botanical displays and 
flower shows, is located at the 
bottom of Flagstaff Hill. I strongly 
recommend visiting Phipps next 
month during its Fall Flower 
Show, on October 7-29.
The North Side is also defi­
nitely worth visiting. This area 
houses Three Rivers Stadium, 
The National Aviary, the 
Carnegie Science Center, and the 
Andy Warhol Museum.
The Downtown area is the place 
to go for museums, visual and 
performing arts, and shopping, 
of course.
First, there is the Fort Pitt Mu­
seum, which is a small museum 
located in Point State Park. If 
you’re not familiar with Point 
State Park, it is famous for its
unique location on Pittsburgh’* 
three rivers and the many festi­
vals it holds throughout the year.
Heinz Hall and the Benedum 
Center, located in the Cultural 
District downtown, host theatri­
cal shows, Broadway plays, mu­
sicals, symphonies, and other per­
formances throughout the year.
On East Carson Street in the 
historic South Side, you should 
visit the excellent restaurants, 
coffee shops, antique stores, and 
art galleries.
Then you can head down to the 
Duquesne or Monongahela in­
cline and enjoy a spectacular view 
of the city during your ride up to 
Mount Washington.
On East Carson and Smithfield 
Street lies the shops at Station 
Square, where one can shop, eat, 
and visit the Funny Bone comedy 
club for laughs. Station Square is 
also the location of the Gateway 
Clipper fleet, where you can en­
joy a tour of the three rivers.
Be sure to visit Station Square 
this weekend, September 15-17 
for its “Octoberfest” which fea­
tures ethnic food, live music, and 
crafts.Finally, Pittsburgh is home 
of the population summer attrac­
tions Kennywood Amusement 
Park and Sandcastle Water Park.
Jason Siegendorf/Tartan Photo Staff Manager 
Market Square is a popular site for Pittsburgers to relax, eat, and park.
Make sure you visit the Pitts­
burgh Zoo; it’s located in High­
land Park and open year-round. 
Don’t miss Citiparks’ “Great 
Race” from Frick Park to Down­
town on the 24th of this month.
Every attraction is accessible 
by bus, and you can pick up a bus 
schedule in the Student Center 
on campus or call PAT’s customer 
service at 442-2000 for schedules 
and information.
eadline
ept. 25
Child, family and adult 
counselling available, 
fee based on income.
Call U.Pitt Clinical Psychology Center 
624-8822
GET OUT OF HERE!
I X terary
d0 sic
Email gh27 (No more information.
We Have The Lowest Student Fares!9
LONDON$239CARACAS229
PARIS285SAN JOSE225
MADRID329TOKYO453
ATHENS379SYDNEY678
Fares are STUDENT fares, from Pittsburgh, each way 
based on a round trip purchase. International Stu­
dent ID may be required. Taxes & surcharges are 
NOT included.
Tarr tnN a ewss Ediro[.i :NaP[r.la,a;pg[L
CouncilTravel
CIEE: Council on International 
Educational Exchange
Internet: http://www.ciee.org/cts/ctshome.htm 
118 Meyran Ave, Pittsburgh, PA 15213
683-1881
CMU Students & Faculty 
You’re eligible for cellular savings! 
from
ISell Atlanlie MYMEX Mobile
Bell Atlantic NYNEX Mobile will have a van on campus in the Warner Hall parking lot on 
Tuesdays in September. From 9:00 am to 4:00 pm on September 12th, 19th and 26th, you can 
purchase cellular phones and test wireless data demostrations at the van.
September Back To School Specials
Motorola Tel Tech 200 (Flipless Flip Phone) 
Nokia 101 Portable with Cig. Lighter Adapter
$1.00*
$29.99*
Monthly Access Fee $12.00
Airtime Peak $.36
Off-Peak $.16
Activate before September 30th and we’ll waive the activation fee! 
A Savings of $50.00!
For more information call:
Call Erin Connolly at 635-2031 
Bell Atlantic NYNEX Mobile.
*New activation on a one or two year price plan with Bell Atlantic NYNEX 
Mobile is required. Monthly access, airtime, toll and roaming charges not 
included. Early termination fee is $175. CMU I.D. is required. Offer good 
through September 30th, 1995. Nokia 101 offer good while supplies last.
ev,,WL E -LCBiWB
----------You Can Count on
SSSSSSSSSSSSSSSSSSSSSSSSSm ,r gioL
Choose a dentist you can count on for life. Call the office of Michael S. Melnick, D.M.D. You’ll 
meet a dentist who combines the latest in dental technology with something that can’t be measured 
by a test or a machine—a dedication to treating you as a human being, not just a set of teeth.
BOARD CERTIFIED-PAIN MANAGEMENT
Fellow-Academy of General Dentistry 
Diplomate-American Academy of Pain Management 
Master-Academy of General Dentistry 
Fellow-International College of Craniomandibular Orthopedics 
Fellow-Academy of Dentistry International 
Fellow-Pierre Fauchard Academy
MICHAEL S. MELNICK
D.M.D., M.A.G.D.
AND ASSOCIATES 
The Park Plaza Suite 207 
128 North Craig Street 
Pittsburgh, PA 15213 
(412) 688-9000 OR (412) 687-8888 
(800) 732-7645
ACCREDITED ^ PAIN PROGRAM
TrÄ
GENERAL DENTISTRY
• T.M.J. (Temporomandibular Joint) Disorders 
• Porcelain and Gold Crowns and Bridges 
• Orthodontics for Adults and Children
• Endodontic (Root Canal) Treatment ______
• Periodontal (Gum) Therapy 
• I.V. Sedation/Anesthesia 
• Cosmetic Dentistry 
• Pediatric Dentistry 
• Oral Surgery
• An Outpatient Comprehensive 
Multidisciplinary Pain Treatment Center 
Accredited by the American Academy of 
Pain Management
• Highest Standards for Infection Control 
& Sterilization—Office Inspected Thru 
Voluntary OSHA Compliance Program
• Nitrous Oxide Sedation
• I.V. Conscious Sedation Under Personal 
Supervision of a Hospital Trained 
Anesthesiologist
• Medical Staff—Shadyside Hospital
A Carnegie Mellon Graduate with a Tradition of Excellence
Mastercard, Visa, Discover, Novus, American Express Accepted. Interest-free payment plans available.
•Day and Evening Hours by Appointment
• Security Building • Indoor Valet Parking
• Most Insurance Plans Accepted
Photo by Jonas © I995 Michael S. Melnick, D.M.D.
Í

---------------------------------------------------

AFTER I WAIT TEN MINUTES, THEY OPEN K NEW LIKE 
FOR ML THE PEOPLE BEWHD WE mo HAVE WAITED WO 
-____ MINUTES .____y
' PLEASE EXCUSE CALM IN FROM 
CLASS TODWi. HIS SEWOS \S URGEHTLY REQJIRED OH A 
TOP SECRET MATTER OF Nf\T\oNAL 
SECURITY SINCERELY, THE PRESIDENT OF WE UNITED STATES. P.S. REALLY.* _<->.
15 PEOPLE IN LINE AND 
THE TELLER GOES ON 
BREAK WITHOUT A REPLACEMENT. /
I'M WAITING TO PAH, AND TUE CASHIER PUTS A(£ ON HOLD 
INSTEAD OF TWE PERSON ON THE TELEPHONE._______-
t GOTTA LEARN WOW 
TO WRITE IN CURSIVE
NICE TRY. SIT DOWN.
EVERS BOOTS RUDE, TOO. PEOPLE SWEAR. ALL TOE TIME, AND YOU CAN 
FORGET ABOUT BEING ADDRESSED
;g vhTp sT cgaTp nreTeg us- RESPECT FOR ANYONE. ^
HAVE YOU NOTICED HOW NOBQDY DRESSES UP FOR ANYTHING ANYMORE’
PEOPLE LOOK LIKE SLOBS____-EVERYWHERE THEY GO. J
HOW COME \ GROWN-UPS DONT GO OJT TO PLAY ?
TM SOJNDS LIKE A JOB. /
GBiWN-UPS CAN ONLY JUSTIFY PLAYING OUTSIDE 'Si CALLING 
it exercise, Doing it when THEY'D RATHER NOT, AND 
KEEPING RECORDS TO QUANTttt THEIR PERFORMANCE-.
BEING A 
GROWN-UP 
IS TCWSH.
SO PLAY IS WORSE THNN 
WORK?
HOWXOME I GOTTA 
CHANGE TUE WORLD
WE GET UP AT THE CRACK OF DAWN, WATCH CARTOONS AND EAT SUGARY CEREAL UNTIL WE FIGHT, AND THEN McM THROWS US OJT o?
THE HOJSE. \T NEVER. CHANGES.
THAT'S WHAT J LIKE ) FIRST ONE 
ABOUT SATURDAYS TOO/J DOWNSTAIRS
"------------—\ GETS TO PICKI THE CARTOONS’
EYERY SATURDAY MORNING IS 
THE SAME. ,
A BIG PART OP LIFE IS BORING ROUTINE. I NEED 
MORE EXCITEMENT. .___-
SO TODAY. I'M GOING TOHAVE A NEW ______
KIND OF L 'U-^3CEREAL.' P. I
THIS CEREAL DOESNT HAVE ANY-CHOCOLATE FROSTING. IT HAS FIBER AND RAISINS .
OF COURSE, 7 WE TIGERS A BIG PART PREFER TO OF LIFE \S INFLICT 
UORR\FH\NG EXCITEMENT SURPRISE. \ ON OTHERS ROUTTNES CAN
BE COMFORTING J 27
SECRETLY, I WAS HOPING FOR A DEAFENING ^ 
EXPLOSION.
WHAT DO YOU MEAN, YOU 
WANT A GLOVE FOR THE OTHER HAND TOO? __
WHICH WORD DONT YOU UHDERSTMAD?
HOW OFTEN HAVE I TOLD CALVIN,sn ns ie;oeHIS STUFF IN 
THE YARD?/ /
VfoOoofr
WHAT ARE YCW SCARED OF: THE BAILS NOT GOING TO BITE YOU ^
UAVE YOU BEEN HITTING 
POCKS WITH THIS BAT ?LOOK AT IT ITS CHEWED UP. YOU SHOULD TAKE CASE
s” VstT ePt“A1eunG
ITS WHAT YVE BEEN TRYING 
TO TELL YOU/ THESE ARE FANG MARKS' THAT BALL 
IS BERSERK.' ITS DERANGED.' IT'S A MENACE /
D0N7 WORRY, FOLKS,I'LL BE OKAY! '___
WHAT HAP- 
PENEPTO 
YOU* WHY 
HAVE YOU COM3 HOME'
I LOST MY 
JOB,FVP MIKE 
COULDNTAFFORD 
TOKEEPA 
BABYSITTER 
ANYMORE.
ABOUT
WHAT,
POP?
WATT A MINUTE. YOU UJERE 
BABY-SITTING 
IN NEW YORK?
YOU SAID YOU 
HAP YOUR OWN 
HIT TV SERIES.
f rfromM 
ewdGans 
.LivMI 
ATrYLOiU
CONTIMRM, 
HE'LL, ee v OKAY... .
MCMNG BACK HOME, 
MOM O'MINE! THE 
REAL IUORLD DWtfT 
WORK OUT. BUT HE/, 
fT HAPPENS!
BOY, I MISSED YOU 
GUYS Bid TIME! AND 
THE OU HOMESTEAD. 
HERE.MOM.IBROU&TT 
THIS FOR. YOU!/ 3
THAT5R16HT, DEAR...
‘RENTS! ¡VS UHATARE
THERETURNOF Y0UD0M6 
YOUR LONCrLOST HERS3 
Si^TDNKSIER! \
HEY, MIKE,MIKE, NOBODY ACTUALLY, HE 
WANTS TO SEEMED PRETTY
LIVE WITH UPBEAT ABOUT
HIS PARENTS! IT. \
NOT AT
TONKBR'S (/]
MVI
UM... THANK YOU, DEAR. 
MAT...
DID I MENTION 
WE LIVE ON A 
FIXED INCOME 
NOW7.
YOU SENT HIM 
HOME ? TO Hl^ 
PARENTS?
I SENT 
HIM HOME. 
YOU'RE 
NEXT.
THE TRUTHS,FOLKS, IHADNTT 
APPRECIATED UHAT A GREAT 
PEAL HOME IS! BEUEVEME.IMNT 
EVERMKE THATM5TAKE AGAIN!
MR. HARRJS?. EP5PACKLE SURE,) HERE. ED. UJHAT 
TX)YOU 
HAVEr 7 ykFOR
n WOULD SEEM 
THAT IN THE STATE 
OF CALIFORNIA, 
ARRESTED TWEL- 
OPMENTISNOT^ 
ONLY LEGAL, 
GGRPEKnW (fgr
TECTED!
I LOVE HIM, 
BUT CAN 
WE GET A 
COURT 
ORDER* /
NOW, TAB 
COULD 
TRY IN 
FEDERAL 
COURT...
NOT MUCH, I'M 
AFRAID. WE COMBED 
THROUGH THE STAT­
UTES, BUT WE WERE 
UNABLE TO FIND 
GROUNDS TO 
WB> HAVE )CLR hltG vIo YpSIBprBaaL KknC anskMPS HOVE-
I WAS 
AFRAID 
OF THAT.

---------------------------------------------------

UfE-IM
H£Ll_
©19^5 ay v\arrr 
6R,o£*w6
v,Z3
,jcSm
sFrGOTft-loeTOTAyTXX‘M &OW&TO BEI ftu Exart o^ aou?~^
$WA HA HA HA 
y\A\ANHA ts
uy/\HA HA HA mN 
UkHA HA HA HA 
VAA. HA HA Ha 
HA HA mN a
9Ne N tN tN eN 
wcN tN tN tN 
mwstN tN tN 
cmNN tNtNds
bcN tN ds ds 
a A HA HA HA . 
uwN tN tN ds c 
chNtN
tN tN ts 
ts
nKuftio&J^ Hi
h>y 7Wil<e Yeh
P//K -S/IRAK,
^1PMf T,
mIII\ In r w, lAaiW»>
#

---------------------------------------------------

GUyUh y<>*NukA MK
HOW
CO(yLp
YOUJHUY ARi WBAKQK 
7X TftAA/- HER.idk• s.k 
gsaksLo
rather I WISH TO SB KllLErD PY 
inskb Pensu ARUT Tfit G^L/tfl ITT I 
. ÖF WAR I 
TOWAEP 
THOSE WHO AR& 
WEAK.
gcsss
__________VT NKK CA.SIIAT0.7R.
[FlfODE 2
SEMPER
FIDELIS[THAT WAS A GREAT TCKE; X\
^ LOVE THAT ONEI FUMY STuFT]^ 
hf 7 \ I faOT MORETeOTi
* y/.M M/ HEY, LE-Ti GET.. '*1 I / THAT ¿TEwARPESS
Po u r - DayF Pecest,1 k/E'U. HXVE.A
'AK <«U«-S MOHEWK ™ \ DKIWKi SEF'Ktu UIV.M /K TAKE «Fly
jjo, t 6£Tt£R CDns giA lm1b nDD>rv>nk alreadyI -HIC-_________
&AN1FL MUfrFKOH, f OWE OH\ TUiT HAVE 
AJ/OTHER ANf THEAI -{e\> 
CAN SLEEP IT oPF! Pe-V'T 
QUIT «V ME Wow — WE 
V TViT JTARTEPl
‘kw «6*7/ i/fro ggPGcC murr
TAK[ CAM 1 UtTHC THGttfY KC°Hi 
A hOtJSTSn."
¦Kl£TZ>Or,|EYOXP SOOP AMO EVIL*
cFd,I...WE 7U.ST WANT TÖ CrlVE 
Ttte. PILOT SOME TIME. TO -j .S08E.R V)P. r
ORE,,p gO5 HEPPEo wd i
6ETTIW6- £?ACK TO THE V COCKPIT I -MC-/'TOUR SOUL IS ^
'Vrii DOHE/\ 
LIT THgVtmU) \ IRUHttSlHFEMflTHE fJNFVL iXAU-i 
<f<»H DIE! -^1
[IT ALUAYS
\JjtS! ^
/??V— 1
faOn cut ?t sece*/c> rj?nakkk yhltkkk 
r tSa? Aherns ?Aa fcovvxut. lsC lsn
—t""«—    fcHTS...// I LooK-i uKe
r_. li rHC
Pip— in.- I &oi»*&
Pfllfe mm­, tc ee
Hh^gogag
MlfFn U^n c^4M3f.
-foWl&HTS PAifc mreut>MC£.',. 
h ».lt.
S8M$
fc/lKO'AMD A pifASAMT öODt) 
AprefiiJ ««w T® y#u
AT GAM* *f..J
V»Hly£IHnV of 
j t AVJ SCH OoL
I/'MX) FAAWCisco < H/VS
EUDfD THf B««' 
PftiAM ap 
(tPACH/WC TKf 
i Sf^ifS frffe.,, 
-tuWiw- CHU, 1 /irlte

---------------------------------------------------

Volume 90, Issue 3The Tartan, Carnegie Mellon University, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania18 September 1995
Tattoos make permanent statement
By DAWN LYNN WALLHAUSEN
have been considering getting a 
tattoo for quite some time now.
For years, really. At first, I 
couldn’t decide what I wanted to 
get. When I figured that out, I 
had to figure out where I wajited to get 
it. Now, I just need to get over my fear: 
I have a very low threshold for pain, first 
gf all, and second, I’m going to be stuck 
^ith this thing for life. •
^Thankfully, I found out that I might 
not have as much to fear in the way of 
pain as I thought. Tony Urbanic of Inka 
Dinka Doo, a tattooing and piercing sa- 
lbn here in Oakland, said that most of 
his tattoos didn’t really hurt.
9“Some parts of the body are worse than 
dthers,” Urbanic said. “Pain depends on 
the individual artist’s touch, the sharp­
ness of the needles, and your own toler­
ance.”
| However, a tattoo artist who answers 
to Todd at Iron City Ink in the Strip 
District, said that all of his tattoos hurt 
in varying degrees. “A tattoo is basically 
i brush burn,” Todd said. A brush burn, 
I can deal with.
1 But pain does seem to vary from expe­
rience to experience. Emily Blough, a 
fifth-year professional writing major, got 
her Sigma Alpha Epsilon tattoo of a 
piano with a moon on her thigh because, 
^t’s supposed to not hurt on muscle.” 
However, according to her, it did hurt. A 
lot.
K Blough went on to say that a friend’s 
mom went with her when she got her 
fattoo, and decided to get one too. “She 
said that it didn’t hurt at all compared to 
Childbirth,” said Blough. Unfortunately, 
from what I’ve heard about childbirth, 
I’m not sure that’s saying much.
»Matt McKeon, a sophomore in CS, 
said that the Celtic design on his right 
arm, “hurt at first, but I got used to it. I 
guess endorphins started being re- 
ased.”
Chris White, a junior civil engineer, 
as apparently one of the lucky ones, at 
with his first tattoo. He said that
the Chinese star pattern on his left shoul­
der didn’t hurt much at all. “It just gave 
me this tingling sensation.” He added 
that it was probably because there is 
more muscle there than bone. Indeed, 
the consensus seems to be “stick to flesh 
if you fear the needle.”
White can further confirm this, be­
cause his second tattooing experience 
was excruciating. He opted for one near 
his left hip bone. It says “pimp” in lower 
case New York-style font. “The hip hurt,” 
White said. “I was sweating [while get­
ting it done].”
Knowing that I can’t be certain that 
my tattoo won’t hurt, I began to question 
other possible (and more serious) dan­
gers of the process. Cleanliness, for in­
stance, is a big issue. I don’t want-to 
walk away from the inking with an in­
fection ... or worse.
White got both of his tattoos here in 
Pittsburgh; one, coincidentally, at Inka 
Dinka Doo, the other at a place in Mt. 
Oliver (the name of which hp nouldn’t 
remember). He said that he wasn’t wor­
ried about the sanitary measures of ei­
ther place. “They looked clean. That’s 
their business. If they’re not clean, people 
won’t go there.”
Urbanic agreed. The tattooing busi­
ness hinges on a good reputation. “We 
have two hospital autoclaves, and all 
needles are disposed of [after each cli­
ent].”
The folks at Iron City Ink take steril­
ization one step further. They make and 
prepare all of their own needles before 
every session. They’ll even let you watch.
Blough got her tattoo at a place called 
Sea Tramp in Portland, Oregon. As far 
as concern for the cleanliness of the 
shop, Blough said that she “knew people 
who checked it out.” The place had a 
good reputation, all the right sterilizing 
equipment and, “I watched them change 
the needle,” Blough said.
As for other potential pitfalls, cost can 
be a deterrent to body art of this kind, 
especially in the case 6f struggling col­
lege students. At Inka Dinka Doo, prices 
for an average tattoo run $45 to $65, 
depending on size and color. Large, elabo­
rate designs will cost more. White said 
that his Chinese star cost him $45 there.
At Iron City Ink, prices begin 'at $40 
dollars. Total cost depends solely on size. 
If you’re terribly worried about the cash 
involved in tattooing, but still really 
want one, there are non-professionals 
who can do it for you.
Mike Shaffer, a sophomore sculpture 
major, did his Celtic wrist band at home, 
with the help of a few friends. Self- 
tattooing is done with India ink and 
sewing pins. It’s perhaps more threaten­
ing infection-wise to tattoo this way, but 
according to Shaffer, less painful. “It 
didn’t hurt. It felt like my hand was 
asleep,” Shaffer said. And, hey, it didn’t 
cost him anything!
The only other drawback to Shaffer’s 
method is time. Self-tattooing must be 
done over a period of days, rather than 
minutes. The art must be needled in and 
gone over several times in order to set 
into the skin. The process takes consid­
erably more time than the average half 
an hour-long experience at a regular 
tattooing salon.
One problem that tattoo aficionados
might encounter is the same problem 
that anyone with really unique body 
piercings or funky hair could run into: 
lack of tolerance in the job market. Ob­
viously, the tattoo artists themselves 
don’t have too much to worry about. 
Shaffer also felt that he, too, had very 
little cause for concern, since the art 
community is usually more accepting 
than the general public.
Blough’s tattoo is not readily visible in 
most clothes, so she, too, is not particu­
larly worried about job rejections due to 
body art. The same is true of McKeon.
White is a bit concerned about how his 
tattoos will effect his job search. He only 
gets tattoos where they can be hidden by 
a suit, since, as far as civil engineering 
firms go he said, “a lot of people do still 
care.” The “don’t get it where anyone 
who might give you money can see it” 
advice was the most widely proffered. 
But those who do it and those who’ve 
been through it offered more great ad­
vice for prospective tattoo collectors. 
White, for instance, warned simply that, 
“It’s very addictive. I was already plan­
ning my next tattoo when I got the first
one.” Others agreed. “I’m considering a 
full body tattoo,” Shaffer said. The big 
one will be professionally done, though. 
Blough wants another, but she says “[I 
don’t] want to make a habit out of it.” Of 
the tattoo artists themselves? They can 
get tattoos any time they want.
Further advice: Blough suggested tak­
ing a stress ball to the tattoo shop. Shaffer 
emphasized, “Don’t do anything when 
you’re drunk.” He has a friend who got a 
really big, really ugly tattoo while 
liquored up. [Note: Some places require 
the signing of a release form — as do the 
two Pittsburgh salons mentioned—and 
won’t tattoo inebriated clients.]
One of the professionals, Todd said 
“Think carefully about what you want, 
because it’s with you for life.”
McKeon agreed. “Shop around care­
fully. Make sure the place has a good 
portfolio. Take a month to a month and 
a half to decide what to get.”
As for me, it’s decided. I’ll endure the 
pain and pay the price. If you want to 
know the what, where, and why, tune in 
next week. By then, I plan to be sporting 
my new body art without regret.
DIVERSIONS
All photos by Yuzo Watanabe/Tartan Photographer 
Sara Kreidler (top) exposes one of her incredibly elaborate tattoos. 
Below her on the left is Chris Flynn with a star on his shoulder. To 
his right are Emily Blough, Steve Hartman, and Rob Eanes with their 
SAE markings, and beneath them is just a bit of Christina Rail’s 
butt. On the left, Chris White shows off his “pimp" tattoo while 
beneath him is Jay IVIiolla’s skullish tummy decore. Down low in the 
center, Sam Gerich and Melissa Bower lounge about showing off 
their Yin-Yang and sun respectively. And in the lower right corner 
is Nyckie Pineau with sunshine on her shoulder.

---------------------------------------------------

Citibank at
Director’s movies survive over years
ByW. LABEIKOVSKY
Tartan Staff writer
The more one thinks of it, the 
more one realizes how frustrat­
ing it can be to be an artist today. 
Artists strain to build the “style” 
they think is so necessary in their 
work. The “cultured” public be­
comes a plague by turning all 
artwork into a list of influences 
and meaningless generalizations 
so everyone forgets that you’re 
supposed to feel something when 
you listen to music or when you 
read a poem. Thus, artists try to 
justify themselves by looking for 
something new—new materials, 
new narrative structures, new 
sounds, new thrills — that must 
be real art, right?
This tendency is very apparent 
in movies. After all, being an art 
form based on illusion, cinema is 
bound to hold its share of tricks. 
Most of the recent development 
of film as art has been done by 
brute force, so to speak. Godard 
threw every montage convention 
out the window while Fellini and 
Bergman gave us the “multiple” 
realities.
However, some of those cur­
rents work on a simple substitu­
tion (or rather abolishment) of 
filmic conventions. The true revo­
lution came when a filmmaker 
discovered that he could give a 
new language to cinema by using 
the same devices it had all along. 
That filmmaker was Michel­
angelo Antonioni.
Antonioni’s goal was to describe 
the human emotion in all its com­
plexity, and he achieved that with 
simple images.
No circular narrative, no lay­
ers of sound effects, no overtly 
psychotic characters, not even 
voice-overs, just images and a 
simple story line.
The drama was not on the out­
side bi^t in the inside and that’s
where lays the beauty of 
Antonioni’s films.
After a couple of small films 
and a few shorts, Antonioni was a 
rather commonplace filmmaker, 
an off-shoot of the post-war neo­
realism Italians. That is, until he 
came out with Uavventura in 
1960. Both hailed and misunder­
stood in its time, Antonioni’s first 
great film was viewed as repre­
senting a new way of filmmaking 
that didn’t seem to have any­
thing new to it, like something 
we’ve forgotten for a long time. 
Uavventura brought instant suc­
cess and admiration to Antonioni, 
and to this day it is considered 
one of the five best movies ever 
made (it is usually put behind 
Citizen Kane but that’s another 
story).
Uavventura was the first in a 
series of three films where 
Antonioni examined human re­
lations in modern life. Its strik­
ingly simple plot took audiences 
by surprise with its lack of reso­
lution. During a cruise, a girl 
disappears; her boyfriend and her 
best friend look for her and begin 
an unstable relationship; We 
never find out whether the girl 
commits suicide or simply es­
capes. Somebody once asked 
Antonioni whatever had hap­
pened to the girl and he responded 
“I don’t know. Someone told me 
that she committed suicide, but I 
don’t believe it.” It’s clear why 
neither he nor us know what hap­
pened: because the characters 
never find out. The film describes 
a truth, not a logic.
Antonioni’s search for truth also 
explains his cinematic language. 
When Uavventura came out, crit­
ics were annoyed at the innumer­
able long shots and people would 
shout “cut, cut” during the show­
ings. What they did not notice is 
that Antonioni would not make a
Please see FILMMAKER, page L13
Take the Syracuse Advantage!
Internships 
Extensive Professional 
& Liberal Arts Courses
EUROPE • AFRICA • ASIA
Scholarships & Grants
Division of International Programs Abroad 
Syracuse University, 119a Euclid Avenue 
Syracuse, NY 13244-4170
______1-800-235-3472 « DiPA@suadmin.syr.edu______
You mean someone 
has answers to my 
student loan questions?!?
Citibank 
has all the 
student loan 
information
PLEASE SEND ME APPLICATIONS FOR 
THE FOLLOWING STUDENT LOANS:
? Citibank Federal 
Stafford Loan(subsidized and unsubsidized)
? Citibank Federal PLUS Loan (for parents of dependent students only)
? Citibank Graduate 
Loan Program(for graduate students of all disciplines - please indicate your field of study)
MAIL THIS COUPON TO:
Citibank (NYS)
Attn: The Student Loan Corporation 
P.O. Box 22948 
Rochester, NY 14692-2948 
OR CALL 1-800-692-8200 and ask for
Operator 268. -------------------------------
VISIT OUR WEB SITE at http://www.loci.com/HO/village/Citlbank/CSLC.html
For answers to 
your student loan 
questions, talk 
to Citibank, the 
student loan 
experts. Our 
customer service 
representatives 
are here to help 
you from the 
beginning of 
the financial aid 
process through 
your final student 
loan payment. 
Exceptional 
customer service 
is just one reason 
why students 
have trusted 
Citibank with 
their education 
financing more 
than any other 
bank. To get the
answers you
1-800-692-8200
Operator 268, 
send in the coupon 
below, or visit 
your school’s 
Financial Aid
/ oI uIZ,aCaoZuoe, 3euZ,Ie / o CaoZuoe, 3euZ,Ie
SMe9’’’’’’’’’’’’’
b,m,n4rI,’’’’’’’
0rlMom 0,luaMe9 z’
6ru oa, luaa,Iem9D
6,oa rw CaoZuoeMrI’’’’’’’’’’’’’’’’’’’’’’
hw 9ru oa, o CaoZuoe, 3euZ,Iec nm,o3, MIZMloe, e4, wM,mZ rw 3euZ9 9ru oa, nua3uMICD
/ Gu3MI,33 B5Gp: / 5,ZMlMI, Bommrnoe4Ml oIZ r3e,rnoe4Ml 3euZM,3:
/ 8ICMI,,aMIC / Wua3MIC
/ Oe4,a Bnm,o3, 3n,lMw9:CITIBAN«9#Code 269
By ADAM KLIVANS
Tartan Staffwriter
Reza Vali, CMU professor of music, 
has released a new CD entitled Persian 
Folklore which showcases his own com­
positions. The CD is one of many pro­
duced at CMU in which faculty mem­
bers and students perform. Released on 
the New Albion label, this CD attracts 
attention to the often neglected area of 
contemporary/international classical
Who: Reza Vali 
What: Persian Folklore 
Label: New Albion
Through the talent of the CMU music 
department, Vali’s music shines as a 
wholly-original and interesting gem of 
Persian and Western music.
Inspired by the great Hungarian Com­
poser Bela Bartok, Vali began quite early 
in his career as a composer to collect and 
study the music of the Middle East. His 
passion for these folk songs, as well as 
music of other cultures, often acts as the 
root of inspiration for many of his pieces. 
This CD is no exception. Like Bartok 
and Kodaly, Vali succeeds in seamlessly 
infusing Persian melodies within a West­
ern musical structure. Because of this
ability, Vali quickly achieves 
something which most com­
posers lack: a distinctive 
voice clearly recognizable 
throughout the CD.
The CD begins with two 
sets of folk songs (No. lib,
No. 9). The first set consists 
of a lament and folk dance 
for string quartet. The 
Cuarteto Latinoamericano, 
quartet in residence at CMU, 
plays effortlessly, showing 
their ability to both sustain 
the poignancy of the Largo 
and bring out the rhythmic 
power of the Molto Allegro.
The folk dance (Molto Al­
legro) contains some of the 
most clever musical ideas 
on the entire CD. Its driving 
rhythms and numerous frag­
ments of Persian melodies 
captivate the listener from 
the first measure.
The second set of folk 
songs, for flute and cello, fea­
tures cellist Alvaro Bitrán and flutist 
Alberto Almarza in eight contrasting 
movements. Immediately noticeable is 
the unique use of instrumentation. 
Almarza uses an “extended” flute tech­
nique which involves bellowing, hum­
Reza Vali’s 
concert at
Photo courtesy Reza Vali 
music will be played duringthe Pittsburgh New Ensemble 
Rodef Shalom tonight.
ming, and singing while blowing into 
the flute.
Bitrân uses the percussive aspects of a 
cello which include tapping and unusual 
bowing of the instrument. When these 
two unusual techniques combine, the
effect is a remarkable sonor­
ity. The second movement 
(Molto Allegro) acts as one 
of the best examples of both, 
instruments being pressed 
to the limit of their capabili­
ties. The piece contains 
many interesting rhythmic 
devices resulting in a some­
times barbarous, always ex­
citing conversation between 
the flute and cello.
The third movement (An­
dante) contains a great deal 
of Persian influence as the 
flute seems to literally 
“whistle,” while the Lullaby 
(Adagio) provides a serene 
and interesting contrast to 
the previous movements.
The CD ends with “Four 
Movements for String Quar­
tet and String Orchestra.” 
Originally a self-contained 
string quartet, Maestro 
Juan Pablo Izquierdo, leader 
of the CMU Philharmonic, 
suggested that Vali transform it for 
string quartet and String orchestra.
Although the new version was never 
performed on Izquierdo’s Chilean tour, 
it was recorded on this CD by the CMU 
Philharmonic and Cuarteto Latino-
americano under the direction 
Izquierdo.
Perhaps the most complicated of a 
the pieces on the disc, the four move, 
ments are written in a classical string 
quartet form. The interplay between the 
string quartet and orchestra often re 
volves around short Persian themes ovei 
a more standard harmonic background. 
Perhaps the most interesting of the 
movements, the Fúnebre, contains ar 
unusual juxtaposition of Wagneriar. 
harmony and Persian folk melody.
The effect is ¿-fascinating exploratior 
of the Wagnerian concept of combining 
love and death into one — a sort < 
Middle Eastern Liebestod. Vali contest* 
that these ideas, however, are presentir 
all cultures in some form or another, anc 
his use of this idea represents the illuini- 
nation of these connections.
Above all, the. pieces are rich with 
fresh musical ideas and certainly worth 
discovering. Vali’s CD demonstrates hi; 
passion for Persian folklore as well ; 
his commitment to good taste. In addi- 
tion to his new compact disc, his musk 
will be featured at the next Pittsburgh 
New Music Ensemble concert (tonight) 
and the CMU Philharmonic will give the 
world premiere of one of his new orches 
tral pieces during the upcoming CMl' 
International Festival on Asia.
TxO b4, boaeoI 7 SoaI,CM, 5,mmrI LIM-,a3Me9 7 x• 0,ne,Nd,a xff.
CMU professor releases Persian folk album

---------------------------------------------------

b4, boaeoI 7 SoaI,CM, 5,mmrI LIM-,a3Me9 7 x• 0,ne,Nd,a xff.Tmm
Denzel makes Devil in a Blue Dress worth seeing
By APRIL C. MOATE
Tartan Staffwriter
Set in 1948, Devil in a Blue Dress stars 
Denzel Washington as Easy Rollins, a 
young WWII veteran who is having 
trouble finding a job.
One day, as he’s combing the employ­
ment listings of the local paper at 
Jockey’s Bar, he is approached by a 
somewhat seedy man, played by Tom 
Sizemore (Striking Distance, True Ro­
mance).
Sizemore’s character, Albright, tells 
Easy that he’ll pay him $100 to find a 
woman by the name of Daphne Monet, 
played by Jennifer Beals. Daphne is the 
fiance of a rich and powerful man who is 
running for mayor, but as Albright tells 
Easy, she took off one night and her 
husband-to-be hasn’t seen her since.
That’s about all I can tell you about the 
story without giving something away.
Devil in a Blue Dress in one sense, is a 
good old-fashioned murder mystery and 
maintains a strong level of suspense the 
entire time.
On the other hand, however, there is 
an awful lot of sex and violence thrown 
in, giving the movie a definite 1995 feel. 
Normally, I would probably think that 
was a good thing (I admit it, I have been 
desensitized), but because this movie is 
so reminiscent of much of the classic 
film noir of the 1940s and ’50s, I felt that 
the sex and violence were misplaced 
and could have been kept off-screen, 
perhaps only alluded to.
I found myself feeling like this movie 
didn’t know what it wanted to be or 
which genre it wanted to belong to.
The only other real problem I had 
with this film was that in the middle of 
it, I got a little confused as to who was 
doing what, and who was who. There 
are several minor characters, each of
© Warner Bros.
In Ricochet, Denzel Washington played a 
street- smart crime fighter.
whom plays some role in the unraveling 
of the mystery; yet most of them have 
very little screen time, and I had a hard 
time keeping up with all of them. There 
was one other small thing that bothered 
me about the movie in general, but I 
can’t tell you what it is without reveal­
ing an integral part of the mystery, so if 
you go see it and you still want to know 
what it was, ask me later.
Despite a few problems, it is hard to go 
wrong with Washington as the star and 
I really enjoyed watching this movie.
He gives his usual top-quality perfor­
mance and he’s just one of those actors 
that makes any movie he’s in worth 
watching.
Beals, on the other hand, will have to 
keep trying. I’m not saying that she did 
a bad job, but I have heard so much 
about how this movie is supposed to be 
her big comeback, since she hasn’t done 
much worth mentioning since Flash-
dance. But her role as the “devil” herself 
is not very big.
In other words, she’s not really on the 
screen and she doesn’t have enough lines 
to prove herself worthy of being consid­
ered on her way back up to fame.
When she actually is in the movie, her 
character seems a little flat and she’s 
not quite as seductive and dark as she 
should be.
Overall, this movie is a good time and 
is the first well-done, plot-driven mur­
der movie I’ve seen in the last year or so. 
There are even quite a few good laughs 
thrown in to keep the movie from getting 
too heavy.
Probably the big question now (at least 
to me) is how this movie will do at the 
box office. Who knows?
Washington can’t always carry a movie 
to big success (i.e. Virtuosity), but this 
time the movie seems to be good enough 
that he won’t have to.
Comics convention impresses columnist with accessibility
Comic Book Chronicles
by Jason Andracki
The Spirits of Independence 
made its “Pitt Stop” in Oakland 
last weekend, and if you missed it 
(to borrow a phrase from the Pen­
guins Mike Lange), “shame on 
you for six weeks.”
This event, organized by Dave 
Sim of Cerebus fame and sup­
ported locally by Don Simpson 
(.Bizarre Heroes) and Phantom of 
the Attic, began Friday night with 
Steve Bissette’s (Tyrant) “Jour­
neys Into Fear” slide show and 
concluded with the convention on
Saturday afternoon. Bissette’s 
slide show was a three and a half 
hour history on comic books as a 
whole, with a strong focus on hor­
ror in comics. Probably the most 
horrifying part of his presenta­
tion was the juxtaposition of the 
censorship of comics. (All pro­
ceeds of “Journeys Into Fear” 
went to the Comic Book Legal 
Defense Fund — more of this 
later).
Bissette journeyed from 12th- 
century Japan with the Hungry 
Ghost scroll up to today’s small 
press horror books. Throughout 
the way, he traced the evolution 
of horror comics to the EC Comics 
which made horror their staple, 
leading to Dr. Wertham’s “Se­
duction of the Innocent,” which 
helped bring about the ever use­
ful Comics Code. Following the 
demise of the EC Comics (in that 
form, they’re still being re­
printed), horror moved to maga­
zine format and finally back to 
comics with books such as 
Hellhlazer and Bissette’s anthol­
ogy Taboo. For a person who has 
been reading comics for 15 years, 
Bissette’s presentation was a 
near-religious experience.
Saturday morning the conven­
tion took place, filling the Holi­
day Inn’s Grand Ballroom and 
the accompanying hallway. Un­
like most conventions, Phantom 
of the Attic was the only dealer; 
the rest of the room was taken up 
by the artists themselves.
Aside from Phantom, the only 
other non-artist table taken up 
was the Comic Book Legal De­
fense Fund. Not only can you buy 
nifty prints and autographed 
books, but your money goes to 
help defend comic publishers and 
retailers who have been accused 
of distributing “obscene” mate-
lyGGyk cd,kyucydGPF
BETTER PIZZA.
. A. •
BEST CATCH OF THE GAME
Oakland/Shadyside 
4643 Baum Blvd. 
(near North Craig)
Now hiring delivery people.
682-7272
PAPA
-------------------------T-
One 16" Extra 
Large One Topping j
Two 14" Large 
One Topping
I Perfect Brunch or I
¦n
__________________ One 14" Large
j Late Night Munch [ One Topping & An 
¦ Order of BreadsHcks$
p99 I mm 995 TI mm +Tax |
I Additional toppings $1.00 each | Additional loppings $1.00 each | ; Tl,u„ 1 lom-ipn, | ^alidlS^olt'ei-¦ Not valid with any other coupon • Not valid with any other coupon , Additional toppings $./U each . v,*nr-cI Valid only at participating stores I Valid only at participating stores I Not valid with any other coupon | / P P 9
rial. Joe McCarthy would even be 
proud of the officials who are en­
trapping small dealers and pub­
lishers for selling so-called ob­
scene comics.
Some highlights from Satur­
day were:
Dave Sim and Gerhard: Inde­
pendent conventions are the only 
place the Cerebus team appears 
now. Although he had the longest 
line, Sim constantly took the time 
to talk to his fans and even would 
add a Cerebus sketch to his auto-
Also some Cerebus original art 
was available for a very reason­
able price, and you could see
Gerhard inking an upcoming is­
sue.
Stephen Blue: Although hissed 
River book is truly disturbing, 
he’s a really friendly guy. His 
artwork in the book is awesome 
but seeing the over-sized origi­
nals really brings out his photo­
realistic style.
Matt Feazell: You could buy 
cheap witty books and watch him 
make them right before your eyes.
M’Oak: Sold his wonderful book 
Thieves and Kings packaged with 
a $4.10 savings. The math was 
right before your eyes. M’Oak was 
great to talk to, plus he added 
sketches onto books he signed.
Mark Wheatley: Clearly had 
the best display for his Radical 
Dreamer. Also, his wife was tak­
ing pictures for his article in Fan 
Magazine. You might be in there.
Don Simpson: Always a plea­
sure to talk to. Also had very 
reasonable original art, but no 
paper hats!
Jason Andracki is a junior pro­
fessional writing major. For more 
information on The Comic Book 
Legal Defense Fund write —P. O. 
Box 693, Northampton, MA 
01061. Thanks again to all who 
made the “Pitt Stop” the best con­
vention I’ve attended.
MAKE A VALUABLE INVESTMENT IN YOUR FUTURE
For nearly half a century,
HRB Systems, Inc., a wholly 
owned subsidiary of E-SYSTEMS 
specializing in the production of signal 
collection, processing and analysis systems, 
has been a forerunner in the establishment 
of engineering design and development 
standards for the U.S. intelligence community.
Due to dynamic growth, a wealth of opportunity currently 
exists in a diverse range.of technical capacities at our 
Headquarters, located in State College, PA, our 
Maryland Operations located in Linthicum, MD as well 
as in a variety of locations throughout the Washington, 
D.C. metro area. HRB Systems is interested in talented, 
ambitious graduates with degrees in the following disciplines:
• COMPUTER SCIENCE
• COMPUTER ENGINEERING
• SYSTEMS ENGINEERING
• SOFTWARE DESIGN
• MATHEMATICS
• AND SIMILAR TECHNOLOGY 
RELATED DISCIPLINES
Make a valuable investment in your 
professional future by applying/ 
enhancing your skills with an industry 
leader that recognizes and rewards 
accomplishment HRB Systems 
will be conducting:
ON-CAMPUS INTERVIEWS
Cameeie Mellon University 
Monday, September 25th
Contact your placement 
office TODAY to schedule 
an interview or for more information.
We also provide outstanding compensation, benefits and 
advancement opportunities in a professional environment 
that encourages achievement. Applicants selected may be 
subject to a security investigation and must meet eligibility 
requirements for access to classified information. US citi­
zenship required.
If you are unable to attend an On-Campus Interview, forward 
your resume to: HRB Systems, Inc., Attn: Human 
Resources, 300 Science Park Road, State College,
PA 16804. We also offer the timely and convenient option 
I of responding directly from your PC via Internet to: 
i jobs@hrb.com
SYSTEMS
An E-SYSTEMS Company
HEG 033rI3c hIl1 M3 o lrNNMee,Z ,quom rnnraeuIMe9 ,Nnmr9,ac 5/V/Yp'
Flu 
shots.
WHERE Student Health Center, Morewood Gardens 
E-Tower. Forbes Avenue Entrance
WHEN Monday, September 25
October clinic dates: To be announced.
TIME 8:30 am —4:30 pm
WHOAvailable to faculty, staff and students. 
CMU ID required.
tinlWWiehih slSv
Individuals 55 years of age and older.
Individuals with chronic lung or heart problems including asthma.
Individuals who have required regular medical follow-up or hospitalization 
during the preceding year because of diseases including diabetes, severe 
kidney problems, or problems with the immune system.
Individuals who are taking medications that suppress the immune 
system.
Teenagers up to and including 18 years of age on long-term aspirin 
therapy.
COST Free
Sponsored by Student Health Service and the Division of Student 
Affairs _________________________________________

---------------------------------------------------

s, oa, Ire
o 49 n ,aio q q a,33 M -,c 
l o Vw , M I ,il a o z , Z lrNnoI9
e4oe 4oNN,a3 
e4, lrNn,eMeMrI oIZ
ZaM-,3 Me3 ,Nnmr9,,3
er srag l aoz9 4rua3 wra
N,ZMrla, nMzzo1
e4, nMzzo$3 oleuomm9
quMe, CrrZ1
Microsoft'
WHERE DO YOU WANT TO GO TODAY?"
Technical Opportunities Conference, Thursday, September 21, 1995,
Main GYM, 10:00am-4:00pm.
Come see us and bring your resume.

---------------------------------------------------

b4, boaeoI 7 SoaI,CM, 5,mmrI LIM-,a3Me9 7 x• 0,ne,Nd,a xff.Txk
Filmmaker holds onto artistic pride
Thursday, September 21La Notte
Hmmmm... this one is about empty hopeless­
ness. This is a real cheerer-upper, it seems. Expect 
to come out with a smile. See, what it is, is this 
French movie, and it was directed by Michelangelo 
Antonioni, who did the statue “David” and the 
design for the McDonald’s wrappers or something. 
The old ones, I mean, the brown ones. The kind 
they still wrap the fish sandwiches in. What they 
should have are those foam things back again. 
Now, don’t get me wrong, I like the environment as 
much as you do, but how else are you going to be 
able to keep the cold side cold and the hot side hot? 
Hmmm? So they are fairly important to the flavor 
of the burgers. Don’t you think?
So, this movie is a study of noncommunication. 
There is a lot of moody footage of hopelessness 
involved, really artsy sort of stuff, that you might 
get a kick out of, if you like that kind of stuff. The 
plot is a little sketchy, but it’s French and it’s in 
black and white, and it’s not Jerry Lewis, so what 
more could you want? See it with someone who 
really likes those foam packages. I mean, it’s stu­
pid, if you think about it....
At 5, 7:30,10 pm, and 12:30 am.
Friday, September 22Circle of Friends
Circle of Friends stars Chris “O’Boy” O’Donnell 
as a young kid who falls in love with a young girl, 
played by Minnie Driver. So they love each other 
for a while, from afar, but Driver’s mean dad is 
making her marry the local tough guy who wants 
her for her personality, if you catch my drift. So 
O’Donnell and Driver have to figure out how to love 
each other.
So, see this if you like romances. I mean I like 
romances sometimes. There is nothing wrong with 
them. The paper packaging, well, you can decorate 
more, I guess. You can put big M’s on it and have' 
happy kids eating hamburgers and stuff. When 
you have foam, you’re pretty much stuck with one 
design. So I guess paper is a good idea.
At 5, 7:30,10 pm, and 12:30 am.
Saturday, September 23Die Hard With a Vengeance
There are a lot of problems with a movie called 
Die Hard With a Vengeance, besides the title. First 
off, the whole idea of “with a vengeance” is kind of 
scary, in a corny sort of way. Then there’s the first 
part: “die hard.” Now, I like death, just like every­
body else, but dying hard is just not up my alley. 
Dying is easy, comedy is hard, that whole deal.
So with that in mind, let’s look at the movie. 
Here’s the plot: bomb, explosion, threat, Bruce 
Willis naked, Samuel “L is for Lovin’ It!” Jackson’s 
hair, bomb, threat, running around, bomb, tun­
nels, bomb, running around, weird lady, bomb, 
running around, jumping on things. There are also 
gratuitous references to Quentin “Q is for Quit 
Touching Me!” Tareeeeeenteeeeeeno’s Pulp Fic­
tion and a wonderful display of Jeremy Irons’ 
acting style/speech impediment.
So, if you’re tired of seeing artsy movies like 
Species, then this is the movie for you. Mosey on 
down and buy your ticket to many hours worth of 
bombs, running, and jumping.
At 5, 7:30,10 pm, and 12:30 am.
Sunday, September 24Ship of Shame
Since I couldn’t find this movie anywhere, I’ll 
describe a movie similar to it, Katherine Anne 
Porter’s Ship of Fools.
Picture this: Vivien Leigh as a divorcee. Lee 
Marvin as a baseball player. Jose Ferrer as some­
one they didn’t describe. They are all on a really big 
boat. Love is in the air, children, so keep your 
windows shut.
Anyway, I don’t know what to tell you. I mean it 
sounds kind of like Ship of Fools, and it has a 
similar name to it. I’m sure Ship of Shame is a little 
different, but not by much. I don’t know. I’m sorry. 
I’ve failed you all.
At 6, 8,10 pm, and midnight.
By JOHN BIGGS
body but the girl’s best friend is 
too absorbed with their own ego­
centric problems to look for her. 
The people in Antonioni’s films 
live only with the desire for some-
FfLMMAKER, from L10
scene of a woman walking 
through a courtyard shorter by 
cutting it. The shot would take as 
long as it would take the woman 
to cross the courtyard. There are 
no linking shots, no outtakes; no 
shot is less important than the inglessness of their lives, 
other. By preserving the 
truth of the image, he 
tried to show the truth of 
the characters and their 
world.
Antonioni’s approach 
to film is not to construct 
a neat plot (in which the 
girl would have come 
back at the end) but to 
explore a situation.
There are no internal 
monologues and when 
the characters do speak 
out they don’t seem to 
say much. As an audi­
ence, we’re not asked to 
judge the characters but 
to interpret their actions 
which they themselves 
don’t seem to under­
stand.
Behind his apparently 
conventional storylines 
was Antonioni’s real 
message: today’s world 
is full of alienated people 
that never really commu­
nicate. In L’avventura 
people rarely even look 
at each other and every-
This subject was further ex­
plored in La Notte. This time 
Antonioni followed a married 
couple during a night in the town. 
Giovanni (Marcello Mastroianni)
thing new, something fun that and Lidia (Jeanne Moreau) are a 
will help them forget the mean- couple without passion, lost
among the zombies in a city of
© Movie Magazine Limited
In La Notte (pictured above) Lidia (Jeanne Moreau) and Giovanni (Marcello Mastroianni) 
visit their dying friend Tommaso (Bernhard Wicki).
sterile skyscrapers and deserted 
buildings. It is not until L’eclisse 
that Antonioni’s characters find 
hope and meaning in their lives.
All three of these films critique 
somewhat the reign of technol­
ogy and our state of isolation, and 
show us how the characters find 
hope only when they re­
member their hearts.
As some have noted, 
the characters commu­
nicate when surrounded 
by nature. But Anton­
ioni’s solution (if it actu­
ally exists) lies not in a 
simplistic “man of the 
woods” doctrine. What 
he is looking for is the 
reconciliation between 
our humanity and the 
mess we’ve gotten our­
selves into and from 
which we cannot seem 
to escape.
All the films men­
tioned are available on 
video. La Notte will be 
playing this Thursday 
in DH2210. There are 
many other Antonioni 
films that I didn’t men­
tion fBlow-up, Red 
DesertJ. Write to The 
Tartan or email wl24 if 
you want to discuss or 
put together a showing 
of any of them.
Local band shows quality once again
By NEIL DONNELLY
Tartan Junior Staffwriter
Don Caballero is one of a hand­
ful of Pittsburgh-based bands to 
have some measure of success 
outside of the local scene.
Who: Don Caballero
What: Don Caballero 2 
Label: Touch and Go Records
They have just released their 
second all-instrumental album, 
Don Caballero 2, on the Chicago 
label Touch and Go Records, fol­
lowing up their critically-ac­
claimed debut. Although the band 
claims that they are “rock not 
jazz,” there is a definite jazz in­
fluence buried beneath the lay­
ers of sheer noise and distorted 
guitars. This hybrid is precisely 
what makes Don Caballero Such 
a fascinating band.
The album opens with “Stupid 
Puma,” a song that could easily 
draw comparisons to Rush at 
times. Odd timing along with 
well-placed harmonics and plenty 
of discordant notes give this cut 
an eerie feel, “please tokio, please 
THIS IS TOKIO” is an 11-minute
opus that starts out innocently 
enough, but soon mutates into a 
rumbling, hyperactive instru­
mental behemoth. Damon Che’s 
thundering drums are the back­
bone of this tune, along with Ian 
Williams’ and Mike Banfield’s 
guitars, which rapidly alternate 
between whispering and roaring. 
The signature Caballero time 
changes are abundant, as is a 
beautifully chaotic Sonic Youth 
influence. Quick, unexpected
tal version of Helmet. A machine- 
gun bass and drum tandem cour­
tesy of Matt Jenik and Che sup­
port dueling screeching guitars 
provided by Williams and 
Banfield. “Dick Suffers Is Furi­
ous With You” revs up to a break­
neck pace midway through, only 
to give way to a mildly bluesy riff 
moments later.
A muffled, electronic-sounding 
guitar intro opens “Cold Knees in 
April,” and it is soon joined and
Don Caballero is proving once more 
that you don’t have to play songs in 
the traditional rock style to make a 
great record.
changes in melody dominate 
“P,P,P, antless,” which is a Ca­
ballero quickie, clockingin at only 
three minutes and 40. seconds.
“Repeat Defender,” however, 
brings us back to minpsymphony 
land. With constantly metamor­
phosing riffs and expert preci­
sion, the band is a bit reminis­
cent of a much more experimen-
then overtaken by low, groaning 
feedback. These are the type of 
transitions that Caballero spe­
cializes in: things that, logically, 
seem so out of place, but feel so 
perfect.
The absence of drums on this 
song make it sound like back­
ground music from some sort of 
horror movie because of its deep,
lingering guitar.
“Rollerblade Success Story” 
opens with an effervescent, jumpy 
arrangement that is calmed down 
by the tune’s end. In fact, the 
second half would practically be 
a lullaby if it weren’t for the 
slightly unsettling guitars hid­
ing behind the drums and bass. 
The record’s closer, “No One Gives 
A Hoot About FAUX-ASS Non­
sense,” is another in the trade­
mark Caballero style. Gorgeously 
off-kilter drumming and edgy 
guitar noodling make this one a 
perfect wrap-up for an experi­
mental, yet strangely beautiful 
album.
With Don Caballero 2, Don 
Caballero is proving once more 
that you don’t have to play songs 
in the traditional rock style to 
make a great record. Caballero is 
incredibly adept at creating beau­
tiful soundscapes within the con­
fines of a few notes, and the band 
still manages to make musical 
hairpin turns with the greatest of 
ease. The members of Don Cabal­
lero are rapidly carving them­
selves a niche not likely to be 
occupied by other bands anytime
SOME THINGS CAN'T BE LEARNED IN SCHOOL
On-C-ampus Interviews 
Wednesday. September 20th 
Carnegie Mellon Career Center 
? * * 
Technical Opportunities 
Conference Job Fair 
Thursday. September 21st 
10:00 am - 4:00 pm 
Gymnasium
clb udTu Cly,Si SiThC ul gyu ClyS ihynTurle ul blSx- piu SiThC ul zuTSu FiTSerepM Nu NhlRi 
™CzuiWz- Cly,FF nleureylyzFC RyrFh ClyS xelbFihpi Teh zxrFF ziuM .drz rzwlei gFTni bdiSi 
udi FiTSerep nyS(i ei(iS iehzM Gu,z TFzl el gFTni slS udi yeTnnlWgFrzdih- udi yerezgrSih- lS 
udi yeuTFieuihM Pi hl pllh blSx diSiM .di xreh udTu nlWiz sSlW T Fl(i ls Tndri(iWieu 
Teh T gTzzrle slS uindelFlpCM 3lSi udTe nlWgyuiS TSu Teh pSTgdrnz zlsubTSi- lyS gSlhynuz 
nl(iS i(iSC zuTpi ls T hlnyWieu,z Frsi nCnFiv nSiTurle- SigSlhynurle- hrzuSrRyurle- zulSTpi- 
Teh SiuSri(TFM 5izu ls TFF- udizi TWT+rep gSlhynuz nleureyi ul Ri iedTenih Teh giSsinuih- 
FTehrep le udi nyuurep ihpi CiTS TsuiS CiTSM .dTu WiTez udTu- Tu NhlRi- ClyS TRrFruriz brFF 
ei(iS zulg pSlbrepM mlb WTeC ludiS nlWgTeriz nTe lssiS Cly udTu]
Bring us your resume in order to be considered for opportunities based in 
Mountain View, CA; Seattle, WA; and/or Phoenix, AZ. Here's your chance to 
apply your BSCS/EE or related degree at the company that developed the 
PostScript" page description language and such world-renown products as 
Adobe Illustrator“, Adobe Photoshop”, PageMaker™ and Adobe Acrobat".
hw uIodm, er 3MCI un wra oI hIe,a-M,s ra oee,IZ e4, yrd VoMac nm,o3, 3,IZ 9rua a,3uN, 
er pZrd, 093e,N3 hIlranraoe,Zc Srmm,C, E,moeMrI3c Y,ne1 S5Lf.cx6U. S4oam,3erI 
EroZc v1S1 GrP 7fOOc 5ruIeoMI HM,sc Sp fJOkfi7fOO1 W, oa, oI 8quom OnnraeuIMe9/ 
pwwMaNoeM-, pleMrI 8Nnmr9,a oIZ W,mlrN, oIZ 8IlruaoC, YM-,a3Me9 MI e4, Wragnmol,1
vaMIlMnom3 rIm9c nm,o3,1 pZrd,c e4, pZrd, mrCrc vr3e0laMnec pZrd, hmmu3eaoera1 pZrd, v4rer34rnc voC,5og,a oIZ 
pZrd, plardoe oa, eaoZ,Noag3 rw pZrd, 093e,N3 hIlranraoe,Z oIZ Me3 3ud3MZMoaM,3 s4Ml4 No9 d, a,CM3e,a,Z MI l,aeoMI 
AuaM3ZMleMrI31 Srn9aMC4e O xff. pZrd, 093e,N3 hIlranraoe,Z pmm aMC4e3 a,3,a-,Z1
WAdobe

---------------------------------------------------

Hey Military Man — 
wanna get it on again this year? I've been a 
bad boy. 
— Civilian Man 
It's Saturday, at 10:30 pm, on CMU's cam­
pus. Your mission, should you choose to 
accept it — eat. 
Announcing — Free body piercing on the Cut,
with signup for Amex card, (limited time 
only.) 
Anyone want to have a circle by the fence 
this Friday? 
Nothing like carrying a couch five blocks 
last night. Thanks Dave, for resting with 
us in the driveways.
MC — How's the dungeon look? Good. Now, clean up the egret's cage 
floor — PT
Vox Popmli
Voice of tike People
Ellli
Wildlife artist Guy Coheleach will be pre­
senting a slide lecture entitled “Meet Guy 
Coheleach, Master of the Wild,” in the Carnegie 
Museum of Art Theater on Thursday from 7 - 
8:30 pm. Price of admission is $5 (members) 
and $7 (non-members).
The Carnegie’s Forum Gallery will host 
“Echo,” a dance performance by Dance Alloy, 
choreographed by Elizabeth Streb. Showtimes 
this week are: Thursday and Friday, 1 - 3:30 
pm; Saturday and Sunday, 1-4 pm.
The Beehive Poetry Reading Series pre­
sents guest star Darius James, this Thursday, 
at the Oakland location of the Beehive (Forbes 
Ave. and Bouquet St.) at 8:30 pm.
The American Heart Association’s first 
annual “Red, Heart and Blues” Benefit will 
happen at Nick’s Fat City (1601 East Carson 
St., South Side) on Wednesday at 6 pm. Tickets 
are available in advance or at the door. For 
more information, call 243-5393, ext. 122.
Borders Book Store (1775 N. Highland Rd., 
Pittsburgh, PA 15241) presents the In Pitts­
burgh Newsweekly Friday Night Jazz Series. 
This week, at 7:30 pm, Perry Vincent & Teresa 
Vukmanic will be performing. Also, catch 
; Acoustic performers Cajun Fever Sunday at 2 
• pm.
The University of Pittsburgh Department 
of Music is holding auditions for all vocal parts 
for a chamber choir, the Collegiate Chorale. The 
choir will perform in Heinz Chapel October 29 
in a concert of Bach Cantatas, and there will be 
six Wednesday-evening rehearsals beginning 
September 20. Call John Goldsmith at 624-4508 
for more information.
Calliope presents Ireland’s Cathal 
McConnell and Len Graham at Frick Fine 
Arts Auditorium, Schenley Dr., the University 
of Pittsburgh, on Wednesday at 8 pm.
Richie Havens will kick off the Calliope 
Concert Series Saturday at 8 pm at the newly- 
renovated Carnegie Lecture Hall, behind the 
Carnegie Library, 4400 Forbes Ave., Oakland.
Fil™
La Notte will play in DH 2210 Thursday at 5, 
7:30,10 pm, and 12:30 am.
Circle of Friends will be shown in DH 2210 
Friday at 5, 7:30,10 pm, and 12:30 am.
Die Hard With A Vengeance will be playing 
in DH 2210 Saturday at 5, 7:30,10 pm, and 
12:30 am.
Ship of Shame will be shown in DH 2210 
Sunday at 6, 8,10 pm, and midnight.
http://www.orau.gov/seed/sers/sersgi.htm. 
Deadline for application for Spring 1996 is 
October 20.
Rainbow Kitchen Community Services
presents the opening of Kids Cafe, a new meal 
program for at risk children ages 5 to 12 who 
live in the Steel Valley area, at MUSA (131 
East 9th Ave., Homestead, PA)
The Pittsburgh Jung Society will host a 
lecture by Andrew Samuels entitled “Trans­
forming Politics: What (if anything) Can 
Psychology and Psychotherapy Contribute?”,
$1 dinner and Shabbat Services starting at 
6:30, at Rodef Shalom on the corner of Fifth 
and Morewood. Sunday, there will be Rosh 
Hashanah services conducted at the William 
Pitt Union, University of Pittsburgh, admission 
is $5, and includes dinner. For more info on 
this and other JUCH-sponsored events, call 
Max at 621-8875 or email him at 
maxg@andrew.cmu.edu.
The Rite of Christian Initiation of Adults 
(RCIA) is being offered at the Catholic 
Newman Center (681-3181) for adults who are 
interested in Roman Catholicism.
—^—Sports
The Carnegie Mellon Women’s Soccer 
Team will take on Catholic University in 
Gelsing Stadium this Friday at 7:30 pm. They 
will play an away game at Hiram College at 
1:00 pm Sunday. Admission to these games is 
free.
The Men’s Soccer Team,will play against 
Waynesburg College in Gelsing Stadium this 
Thursday at 7:30 pm. Admission is free.
rc-—. _—Notices
Dossier, The Tartan’s literary supplement, is 
in need of poetry and short fiction for its next 
issue. Deadline is September 25. Email 
gh27@andrew.cmu.edu for more info.
The Pittsburgh Center for the Arts invites 
regional artists to submit slide documentation 
of their artwork for consideration for the 1996 
Biennial. Deadline for submissions is November 
20,1995. Please send a resume and a maximum 
of 16 slides or no more than 10 minutes of video 
tape to: 1996 Biennial, Pittsburgh Center for 
the Arts, Pittsburgh PA 15232.
If you are a sophomore, junior, or senior
studying computer science, engineering, phys­
ics, environmental and life sciences, mathemat­
ics, or physical science, and have a QPA above
3.0, you may be eligible to participate in a 
Science and Engineering Research Semester 
sponsored by the U.S. Department of Energy. 
For more info, call: (202)488-2426; write: SERS, 
PO Box 23575; Washington DC 20026-3575; 
email: SERS@orau.gov; or look at the website:
This Saturday in DH 2210, there will be a showing of Die Hard With A Vengeance, the third installment of the epic Die Hard series. Samuel L. Jackson (left) 
plays Zeus, who is, interestingly enough, not the god of gods, but a keen triggerfriendly sidekick to Bruce Willis' building-boming, airport-altering, phonecail- 
placing character, John IVIcClane.
this Friday at the Forbes Quad, room 1P56, at 
Pitt, at 7:45 pm. Admission is $8 (members) 
and $10 (non-members).
The YWCÀ of Greater Pittsburgh (305 
Wood St.) is offering an American Heart Asso­
ciation Adult CPR and Foreign Body Airway 
Obstruction course (fee: $15) on Friday from 6 -
10 pm; limited enrollment accepted. To register, 
please call Sandy at 391-5100 extl405.
The Catholic Alumni Club is sponsoring its 
10th Annual Charity Dance for Pittsburgh area 
singles, on Friday, from 8:30 pm -1:30 am, at 
the Holiday Inn Parkway East, 1-376, Exit 11. 
Donation $12. All proceeds benefit the Greater 
Pittsburgh Community Food Bank. For further 
information, call 421-8381 or 673-5749.Religion
The Jewish University Center of Hillel
will be hosting the following events: Friday, a
The Roman Catholic Chaplaincy celebrates 
Mass daily on campus at 12:30 pm in Student 
Center room 224, Monday through Friday. 
Weekend Masses are held at 10:30 am and 8 
pm every Sunday in Posner Hall. For informa­
tion, call the Newman Center at 681-3181.
Lutheran University Center, 4515 Forbes 
Ave, offers and celebrates Eucharist every 
Wednesday at noon and Sunday at 11 am. Call
682-6886 for more information.
Muslim Students Association holds daily 
midday prayers at 1:40 pm in the Student 
Center room 224. Study circle follows on 
Saturday. Finger or email msa for more infor­
mation.
The Islamic Center of Pittsburgh, 4100 
Bigelow Blvd., holds the five daily prayers and 
during Ramadan also has taraweeh and free 
iftar. Friday prayers are at 12:15 pm. Call 682- 
5555 for more information.
The Men’s and Women’s Cross Country 
Team will participate in a meet at Dickinson 
College this Saturday at noon.
The Women’s Volleyball Team will partici­
pate in the UAA Round Robin at New York 
University this week between Friday and 
Sunday.
The Women’s Tennis Team will participate in 
the Rolex Tournament at William Smith College 
this week between Friday and Sunday.
Mwtinw
The Tai Chi Club will have an introductory 
workshop and organizational meeting on 
Monday, September 25, time and place to be 
announced. For more information contact 
Malcom Bauer at malcolm@cs.cmu.edu or call 
him at 268-7002.
