Spring Carnival photo essay inside
The Newspaper of Camegie-Mellon University, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania 15213, Volume 81, Number 24, April 28, 1981.
Over $10,000 in jewelry
stolen from dorm rooms
JJUUIU uy IVUUCIl ¿.UMIklll
Alex Ligertwood, singer for Santana, performed for a capacity crowd in the gym last Friday.
by Alice Alfonsi
Approximately $10,000 worth of jewelry 
has been stolen from four CMU dormitory 
residents within the past three weeks. Three 
burglaries have occurred on the first floor of 
Donner Hall and one on the 5th floor of 
Morewood Garden’s D tower. Both of these 
are women’s floors.
At the time of these burglaries various 
students have reported seeing an unknown 
young black male in their dormitories. The 
following description has been released by 
campus police: black male, approximately 
19-20 years of age, 5'11" tall, 150 lbs, short 
afro hair style, brown eyes, small beard, tan 
jacket, tan pants or blue jeans.
The most recent incident occurred on 
Thursday April 23 when a man fitting that 
description was seen on the first floor of 
Donner Hall. The man knocked on a door, 
came in and upon seeing someone in the 
room asked if Suzi Smith was there. The 
man asked for “Tony, Suzi or Cindy”,
Rain postpones Sweepstakes ’81
by Monica J. Cellio and Jennifer Hutton
Bad weather prevented the traditional 
Carnival buggy races last Friday and Satur­
day. A committee of buggy chairmen from 
all organizations involved met last Sunday; 
the races will probably be rescheduled for 
next Sunday.
When Friday’s races were rained out it 
was agreed that they would run on Satur­
day, but Saturday was also rained out. This 
is the first time since 1926 that sweepstakes 
has been rained out both Friday and
Saturday.
A number of conflicting activities pre­
vented the rescheduling of the races for last 
Sunday. These included the March of Dimes 
walk-a-thon, a Vietnam Veterans’ rally in 
Schenley Park, and the University of Pitts­
burgh graduation, all of which required 
police protection. Four policemen are 
required to prevent traffic from interfering 
with the races. In addition, there was a cam­
pus architecture program which conflicted 
with the races.
ZBT wins booth, t-shirt
by Monica J. Cellio
Zeta Beta Tau took first place in both the 
Spring Carnival booth and T-shirt competi­
tions at the annual awards ceremony last
Saturday.
In booth competitions, Zeta Beta Tau’s 
Railroad Station won first place in the fra­
ternity category. Delta Tau Delta’s Gold 
Rush won second, and Sigma Alpha Epsil­
on’s Pony Express was third. In the sorority 
booth competition, Kappa Kappa Gam­
ma’s Fort Kappa was first, with Delta Gam­
ma’s Boot Hill second. The independent 
winner was Student Dorm Council’s Rail- 
road Crossing.
Zeta Beta Tau’s buggy T-shirt, designed 
by Jim Starr, a junior Art major, won first 
plare in the T-shirt design competition. 
George Wyszomierski designed the Sigma 
Alpha Epsilon booth T-shirt, which took 
^ond place.
The team competitions, which were sche­
duled for Friday and Saturday, were held 
0r>ly on Saturday because of bad weather. 
The events included relay races, pass-the- 
cucumber (between the legs), horseshoes, 
and pyramid building. Delta llpsilon won 
place in this competition. Student 
^orrn Council was «‘cond, and a team cal- 
*‘ng itself Stench IV won third place.
Several events had to be cancelled because
of the weather, including Indian face paint­
ing, pony rides, the egg toss, and some team 
events.
Buggy awards will be presented in the 
Skibo Ballroom next Sunday.
The main disagreement at the meeting 
was the choice of days for the rescheduling. 
The group was almost evenly split between 
next Saturday and Sunday, with the prefer­
ence on Sunday. Objections to holding 
sweepstakes Saturday include a conflicting 
track meet and the possibility of disrupting 
the scholarly image of History Day, an activ­
ity which involves showing the campus to 
some 400-odd high school students, which 
will be held next Saturday.
The pushers of several organizations are 
members of the track team and they will be 
attending the regional President’s Athletic 
Conference (PAC) at Case Western Reserve 
in Cleveland, Ohio, this Friday and Satur­
day. (See story on page 12).
It was suggested that the races be sche­
duled for Saturday and held Sunday only if 
it rains Saturday. Permits to run the races on 
either day still need to be obtained.
according to one Donner resident. That 
same day $ 131 worth of jewelry was reported 
stolen by a female resident on the first floor 
of Donner Hall. Her door was left unlocked 
in the afternoon. Also on April 23, $708 
worth of jewelry was stolen from a girl in 
Morewood Gardens D tower.
Sightings of the aformentioned young 
man have occurred earlier in April in 
Donner and Morewood dorms as well as a 
“stranger” episode in Margaret Morrison. 
On April 18 a female resident of Margaret 
Morrison, having left her room unlocked, 
returned to find a young black male in her 
room. He said he was looking for someone. 
The incident, however, was not reported 
until April 20. These sightings “are happen­
ing,” said Chief Charles Westbrooks of 
Campus Police, “but the students are not 
letting us know.”
Westbrooks urged that students lock their 
doors. Warnings have already been issued 
for students to be careful. Only one of the 
four burglary victims was certain to have 
locked her door; however, none of the cases 
suggested evidence of a forced entry.
The first burglary of the type occurred on 
April 9 on the first floor of Donner. Jewelry 
worth $4700 was stolen from a female resi­
dent who was not certain that she had 
locked her door. The April 15 burglary 
involved another large sum of $4180 in 
stolen jewelry. The door was unlocked 
between the hours of 7:30-5:00 p.m. West­
brooks said they are assuming the burglary 
took place in that 30 minute span.
Campus and Pittsburgh Police are inves­
tigating the burglaries; however, no suspects 
have yet been found. A composite picture is 
being made of the man fitting the above 
continued on page 5
Zeta Beta Tau’s Railroad Station and Kappa Kappa Gamma’s Fort Kappa were the first place winners for fraternity 
and sorority booths. The independent winner was Student Dorm Council’s Railroad Crossing. The awards were presented last 
Saturday night.

---------------------------------------------------

Editorial.
The options that should come before letter writing
“Resorting to letter writing is our only reaso­nable alternative.” This one sentence in the original letter from the “eighteen English majors” has proved to be one of the more volatile claims to hit this campus in quite some time. Dean Oecine especially objected to the students’ claim that the “university lacks any mechanism to vent opinions.”What these students probably meant was that writing a letter to the Tartan was their most effective and immediate alternative. The maneuver, in fact, forced the adminstration’s hand.This year, the Tartan has been the forum of several major debates on academic policy and tenure decisions. Architecture, AMS and Eng­lish have been the featured departments of debate. We wish to examine the other channels
of protest open to those students who “resorted to letter writing”.The most obvious and direct channel is to approach the department head himself. Too frequently, however, the problem is the depart­ment head. Also, issues of greater philisophi- cal value, concerning the long-range goals of a department, are somewhat difficult to “chat” about in the span of a department head’s office hours. We see no good reason why these issues should not be intelligently discussed in the forum which the Tartan provides.As a matter of courtesy, however, issues of tenure should be presented to a department head or college chairman before widespread publication.The APhiO ratings have historically been a useful tool in planning future class schedules,
but a truly ineffective way to comment on faculty and tenure decisions. As we have seen in the recent English debates, these ratings can handily prove whatever one wants to prove.The Academic Affairs Committee of the Stu­dent Senate more and more is showing signs of power. It should be utilized by students to its 1 ' greatest potential. There is also a student adhoc committee on campus devoted to the issue of faculty tenure decisions.A letter in the Tartan simply reaches the most people in the quickest time. Seldom do intelligent arguments in these pages not solicit some administrative response. Neverthe­less, the Tartan is not the only forum for venting grievances, and we wish students would begin to think of our paper as their last resort.
letters______________________________________
Prof. Walton has the lasl( f) word on the English controversy
Editor:
Although it is a tradition, even a preroga­
tive of the CMU writing professors to air 
their tenure cases in The Tartan, I have 
avoided writing until now, feeling that it 
was futile, but more especially feeling that 
there were important issues raised by the 
letter signed by eighteen students (Tartan, 
April 7) that began this discussion-issues of 
the place of literature in the English Depart­
ment, and of the way in which decisions are 
reached and discussed in thiscollege-which 
a detailing of any individual case, whatever 
its merits, could only serve to cloud. I am 
writing now not to argue my case, but to 
discuss those issues.
First of all, I have not, and am convinced 
that other members erf the English Depart­
ment have not, prompted the writing of that 
letter. Although I subsequendy wrote to 
thank the eighteen students for their sup­
port of me, that letter was addressed ano­
nymously, and I still do not know for sure 
who more than half of the eighteen are. I 
have never met or spoken with Alice 
Alfonsi, who wrote the follow -up article to 
that letter (Tartan, April 14). I have not 
taken class time to discuss my situation, nor 
have I discussed it with any student individ­
ually. And I think anyone who knows me 
will agree I have not traded on my popular­
ity here.
I make a point of this not because I feel 
that there was anything unseemly in that 
letter or in the discussion which has fol­
lowed, but because Dean Crecine so clearly 
assumes that there is (Tartan, April 22)~a 
characteristic assumption of his, I feel, that 
protest has to be the work of a few' under­
handed and unprofess;onal persons, trou­
blemakers and w'iseguys, to borrow' his own 
favorite designation.
“I find myself more than a little discour­
aged,” he writes in the cover letter which 
accompanies copies of his response sent to 
the eighteen students individually, “to 
observe still another instance w'here a few 
members of the English community at 
CMU insist on politicizing issues, rather 
than dealing with them on their merits and 
openly. 1 am sorry you have been a party, 
willing or unwilling, to that.”
The idea that dissent is someltow 
disreputable-’disheartening,” “disappoint­
ing, ’ a violation of “a spirit of respect and 
good will,” to pick terms out of that same 
cover letter--is one that has been voiced often
in this department, by a dean who has felt 
compelled to chide members for running to 
The Tartan with reports that literature was 
being scuttled in favor of rhetoric and Docu­
ment Design, or for discussing department 
and college business w ith people from other 
divisions, or to draw' younger faculty into 
his office to caution them against associa­
tions with “politicizing” senior members of 
the department. This attitude, combined 
with the frustration that many members 
have felt over the decimation of the program 
in literature--of w'hat is in many minds, in 
fact, the actual subject matter of the field— 
has been the source of continuing tension 
here, and indirectly accounts for the reputa­
tion for irresponsibility that this department 
holds in administrative circles.
This is by no means to suggest that reck­
lessness and wild accusations should be 
tolerated in academic debate; but one should 
be hesitant-a dean should be especially hes­
itant, I think, given the extraordinary per­
sonal power that attends that position 
here-against denigrating any legitimate 
voice of protest, however ill founded he 
might feel it to-be.
I myself find several glaring omissions 
and errors of fact in Dean Crecine’s own 
letter to this paper. He fails to mention, for 
instance, that Richard Young w as a member 
of that same visiting comittce w hich he now 
cites to support the changes that Richard
Young has made since becoming head of 
this department.
He also fails to mention that the job des­
cription for the position that Paul Kameen 
failed to apply for this year had been rewrit­
ten from the year before, when he did apply.
And his description of my own successful 
appeal to the Faculty Review Committee of 
my firing two years ago on a standard con­
tract review' (not, as he calls it, a tenure 
review) is patently incorrect.
But I would hesitate to call these lies or 
deliberate misrepresentations. At worst, they 
seem to me the natural tendency of a man to 
put the best face he can on the facts.
To ask for apologies, evidence, or, as he is 
sometimes w'ont to do, demand resignations 
from wayward faculty, seem to me to poison 
the spirit of free debate, and in the absence of 
any concrete support of dissenting opinion, 
to have a stifling effect on all levels of aca­
demic activity.
It is worth lingering a minute on this 
point-this assumption of the dean’s, again 
a characteristic one, that dissent is a viola­
tion of his personal integrity. “I don’t mind 
at all having my judgement questioned, or 
even my intelligence,” he writes in that same 
letter to the students, “I do mind having the 
ethical nature of my conduct questioned 
gratuitously and without support for the 
claim.” And while we may wonder a little at 
a man who speaks too often of his own
No more dorm imperfections
Editor
Being a resident of Donner A-level-West, I 
would like to complain about the inade­
quate services provided by this university. 
For example, last Thursday Donner’s water 
supply w'as cut off by the City of Pittsburgh 
for maintenance. When it was restored, the 
water pressure of Donner West was 
extremely high-high enough, such tliat on 
Friday at 5:30, our toilets began to overflow. 
Siitre maintenance and Physical Plant are 
closed, I called Security. Their immediate 
reaction was, “Oh, no!’’and said they would 
send help over. Well by 6:00, the water level 
was seeping into our new (bought last 
semester) hall carjx*t. Our hall now smells- 
like a wet diaper because Security could not 
find time to come and help.
Another aspec t of Security's “efficiency” 
is the case when a friend was locked out of 
his room. Nobody could be found at
Donner’s desk so Security was called. They, 
of course, never showed up and my friend 
was let in his room by Donner’s supervisor.
But by no means is Security the only trou­
ble spot; Housing has its problems too, but 
they solve theirs by throwing money at it till 
it goes away! Ill is is the case of the broken 
fuse in our oven. Since maintenance won’t 
repair it (I don’t know why), so housing was 
callcxl. Tty*y informed us that the reason our 
oven w'as not being repaired was they were 
considering buying a new range* for us. So, 
instead of replacing a £0C fuse* they wen* 
going to spc*nd $500 on a new range.
These* conditions might be* tolcrabk* if we* 
weren’t paying for all the*sc* “inconvenieii- 
evs” with our housing money and tuition! 
For nearly $10,000 a year, I be lie*ve we* should 
expect (and receive) neat jxrfeelion.
Sincerely, 
Scott A. Safier
honesty, especially one who has been so 
closely involved in the day-to-day business 
of decision making, and in this department 
at least, seen outcomes fall so consistently 
along the line of hes own point of view, I 
believe him to be sincere. He is a man who 
genuinely believes in the integrity of his acts.
Still, it is worth speculating, if only in the 
abstract, on the notion of a man in power 
who makes a policy of his ow n honesty--of 
the kind of problem-to-subordinates that is 
posed by a man in power who insists on 
having his every act taken as an act of pure 
integrity. It makes-in addition to whatever 
tactical advantages it might offer-every pro­
test a personal affront, an aspersion cast, an 
outrage. It also, I think, gives such a man 
enormous license-to execute any maneuver, 
implement any conviction, secure in know­
ledge erf his own justice. Surely one would 
hesitate before criticizing such a man. And 
surely those who do reveal qualities that do 
themselves no service.
None of this is to say, however, that dis­
sent is being actively suppressed here, or 
continued on page 3
.¦¦
Editor-in-Chief.......................Richard Gorelick
Associate Editor................................Bob Leighty
Managing Editor.......................Robert Zusman
Business Manager.........................Linda Hetrick
Asst. Business Manager........Pam Shugerman
News Editor.............................Jennifer Hutton
Asst. News Editors...........................Alice Alfonsi
Monica Cellio
Features Editor..................... Maureen Brennan
Asst Features Editor................Kathy Krummert
Entertainment Editor...................Adam Lauzar
Sports Editor.................................Gregg Bossier
Dossier Editor...............................Lynn Epstein
Photography Editors.............. Chuck Chidekel
Doug EH*5
Contributing Editors............................................ Jim Balsotn
Sue Borg 
Doug Kirsop
Production Manager...................Vince Guinto
Production Staff...................................Bob Harr
Mark Shelton
Copyright c 1981 by The Tartan. The Editorial Board 
rrsmo the right to withhold from publication ail) 
co|jy it deems unfit for publication Editorial Offa^ 
Skibo 50. (412) 578-2111. Business Offices: Skilx» 52. 
(412) 578-2111. 24 hour phone. (412) 578-2113. Mailing 
address: Box 17, Schenley Park, Pittsburgh PA 15213- 
Funded by the Activities Fee.
All rights reserved.

---------------------------------------------------

more letters
Actually, Senate is to blameA SLIGHT CASE OF THEFT
Editor
Yeah, it’s me again. Last week (4/14) I 
submitted a letter to The Tartan criticizing 
the paper for sending two staffers to cover 
the Space Shuttle’s maiden launch. The 
staffers received $420 for their expenses; 
money that came out of yours and my 
pockets via the Activities Fund.
After looking into this matter further, I 
wish to change the object of my criticism. It 
is my opinion that the Space Shuttle fiasco, 
and the squandering of who-knows 4iovv 
many dollars, is the fault of our beloved' 
Student Senate. The Tartan, and other stu­
dent organizations should not be blamed. 
One should expect these groups to attempt 
to milk the Activities Fee budget for all they 
can get. Why shouldn’t they?
If Student Senate wishes to blow our 
money, why shouldn’t each organization try 
to gain a bigger piece of the pie? I believe 
that the Student Senate is grossly at fault for 
not exhibiting, what I feel should be, the 
necessary watchdog responsibility in spend­
ing our money.
Usually, I try not to let the university- 
sticks-it-to-me syndrome get to me. But here 
the cast of characters is different. It isn’t 
really the university who is sticking it to me 
(and yoit, unless of course yoit are one of the 
elites receiving these particularized benefits). 
The players in this black comedy are our
own student senators. Put succinctly, I am 
most mad because I feel that my pcxkets 
aren’t being picked by the traditional CMU 
professionals, but rather by those who I 
thought would be looking out for my, and 
your, interests.
When I appeared at last week’s Student 
Semite meeting and requested their side of 
the story, I was bombarded by several offi­
cios with several little-known rules and reg­
ulations. Briefly, I was given a lot of double 
talk.
If this seemingly bottomless, indiscrimi­
nate, financial generosity irks yoir too, why 
don’t you ask your senator how he/she votes 
on these issues? Express your dissatisfaction 
(or approval). And when future items on the 
Senate agenda appear (now the agenda is 
published in each issue of The Tartan) to 
interest you, tell your Senator how you’d 
like him/her to vote. They’re supposed to 
represent us, yoir know.
How did your senator vote?
Fred Crawford ‘83'
wm
“Cheap tricks of propoganda” in the Tartan?
Letter Policy
A letter intended for publication must be 
signed and include the writer’s address and 
phone number for verification. Names will 
be withheld upon request. The Tartan
reserves the right to condense or reject any 
letter.
Editor
At first glance we were sure the piece was 
mistakenly placed. However after reading 
the paragraph more carefully it struck us. 
Right there in the world news section of the 
April 14th Tartan edition were the words 
that, under the cover of “news,” conveyed 
opinion.
To be a news corespondent is to deliver 
news in a reliable way. News as means to 
convey opinion are neither the right place 
nor the right way. In fact, using news as 
basis to opinion is a shaky construction, but 
when the news is not even correct, the con­
struction is rather disastrous.
About the war between Israel and the terror­
ists. A war in which the roles of the partici­
pants were inappropriately portrayed. There 
are no “raids” on Palestinian camps. The 
mistake lies in the mere fact that inside those 
refugee camps are terrorists training camps. 
Camps in which the terrorists are being 
trained to kill. Their targets are not the 
Israeli army, rather, civilians, women and 
children, in the streets of Israel. In a world
* where “kill or be killed” is a rather realistic 
notion, the Israeli army is doing its best to 
reach these terrorists at their camps before 
they have the chance of launching their 
attacks.
This letter is about the piece on Lebanon. Every man is entitled to his own opinion.$490 for a farewell dinner: Senate goes too far
Editor
On Tuesday, April 21st, the Student 
Senate allocated by a vote of 17 to 5 with 5 
abstentions, $490 toward a dinner for this 
past semester’s senators. The invited sena­
tors will be asked to contribute $5 toward 
their own dinner, but for the two dozen cfr so 
people invited, this totals to $25 a plate,
mostly from your activities fee.
I am not disputing the idea of giving a 
dinner in thanks to the past senators. They 
worked hard to equitably distribute your 
student activity fee to diverse clubs and 
organizations and to represent your interests 
before the faculty and administration. 1 he 
work is long and hard, with little thanks. I 
am alarmed at the expensive precident that
A professor in his own defense
continued from page 2
retribution visited orr those who speak out. I 
think you will find few here who would say 
that. The process is much subtler than that, 
and in many ways, I think, motivated by a 
commendable desire to establish order and 
decorum. A gixxl example of how this is a 
problem, though, is the way discontent with 
the freshman-sophomore college core has 
been handled this past year. Even though 
dissatisfaction with the number and rigidity 
°f requirements and with the lack of indi­
vidual options was a recurring theme on 
student questionnaires relumed to the Advi­
sory Center last spring, and a recurring rea­
son given for transferring out of the college, 
and though the number of transfers out has 
become a significant cause for alarm in all 
areas of the college over this pist year, there 
bas been little attempt to mcxlify or reform 
the core, or even to seriously discussmaking 
changes.
Rather the decision has been made to 
Establish a warmer e.s/?r//--through newslet­
ters and SAC’s, a tasteful painting of class- 
r(*nn walls, frequent parties and flings, free 
Weenie roasts on tire lawn anti free beer in
the rotunda, all of it very pleasant and by all 
appearances, successful, building this 
semblence-the reality-of contentment, and 
silencing complaints. Hie students’ natural 
desire for Belonging is satisfied, and what­
ever uncertainties they might have felt, or 
come to feel, are adroitly smoothed away.
Ilie faculty, out of a natural fear of not 
belonging, and a natural caution tlrat is 
everywhere endorsed and nowhere contra­
dicted, leams the lesson of silence. And it 
would be lxx>rish to contend, even to sug­
gest that any of this was in any way coercive, 
or manipulative, that in some way dissatis­
faction were being bought off-with a few 
free Tootsie Rolls and free pieces of pizza, or 
the luxury of being able to call a superior by 
his first name.
And if it’s nevertheless just a bit restrictive 
and too much on the surface, a bit loo singu­
lar in its point of view, there are \ few I 
imagine who would think so, and soon 
enough, I think, fewer still who will say so.
David Walton, Associate Professor 
Department of English 
College of Humanities and 
Social Sciences
is being set here. Never before has the senate 
proposed to so heartily thank its past 
members. It would be much more approp­
riate if the cost of one dinner was divided 
more evenly between the guests and the stu­
dent body. Presently, the guests pay a $5 
fixed price for whatever they order, no mat­
ter how expensive. What’s more, if the bill 
for this meal (at the Grand Concourse) 
exceeds $600, who will pay the difference?
Hie guests? I doubt it!
As an “old” senator still serving on senate, 
I feel that I have the responsibility to inform 
my constituents of this action. To remain 
silent would condone it. To attend the 
dinner would be hypocrisy; this senator will 
not be present. Respect fully submitted,
' Laurie Elm 
Vice-chairperson 
Student Senate
Although it is hard for us to say, as Israelis, it 
is not a black and white situation. A lot of 
unjust is involved and no one side’s opinion 
has a sovereignty on the truth. Having an 
opinion is part of being a thinking person, 
but using cheap tricks of propaganda and 
manipulating news for [the] purpose of con­
veying such opinion, is not how a free 
society can exist and not what it should 
tolerate. We would be more than happy to 
engage in a discussion and will accept any 
invitation to do so, but I would state the 
opinion as being such and expect the partic­
ipant to do the same.
In case the news was taken from an 
already written article, it’s your duty, dear 
editor, to check its accuracy.
In conclusion, future articles would be 
easier for us to read if they will concern 
“Israeli attacks” that ate misperceived, than 
read about groups of terrorists who call 
themselves “freedom fighters” that attacked 
civilian targets in Israel (sic).
Adi Karev/83 
Boaz Raam/84
Be more tolerant
Editor
Last Friday (April 17) I was much sad­
dened to hear cries of “Weirdo!” and “We 
don’t need any weirdos here!” flung at two 
young bearers of signboards with Christian 
messages.
It is clear that one subject w’e do not teach 
enough about is tolerance.
Sincerely yours, 
Richard L. Schoenwald 
Professor of History
We don’t want wooden benches
Editor
As graduating seniors we received letters 
from S.A.R.C. asking for a donation of $85 
to place twenty benches on campus. As 
I aune Elm correctly stated in her letter of 
April 14, 1981, the financial terms were easy 
to meet for most students. However, we do 
not believe that cost is the main reason for 
the lack of contributions to the senior class 
gift. Personally, wfe chose not to contribute 
because we felt the selection of wooden 
benches was inappropriate.
In the letter from S.A.R.C. we were told 
that the benc hes would be a visible pennan- 
cnt gift. How long are these benches sup­
posed to last? Does S.A.R.C. honestly believe
these wooden benches will escape the wide­
spread vandalism on this campus? Will the 
benches be here when we come back in ten 
years? It is doubtful.
We would not mind contributing to 
CMU if the donations were used for more 
lasting items. For example we would gladly 
pledge $85 for library books or durable, 
stone benches, or even a combination of the 
two. However we definitely do not want to 
give money for something that will proba­
bly be an eyesore in a few years.
Mary Kay Goggin, AMS 
Karen I. HolcLsworth, CJT 
Cheryl L. Morter, M*CS 
Patricia L. Rruckman, HfcSS

---------------------------------------------------

Page 4—The Tartan—April 28, 1981
“CYBERNETIC LIMB AND 
SENSORY PROSTHESES”
Dr. Robert W. MannWhitaker Professor of Biomedical Engineering Massachusetts Institute of Technology
THURSDAY, APRIL 30,1981 - 4.30 P.M. WHERRETT ROOM, SKIBO
Did You Know?
Professor named Associate
Covey has a bachelor’s degree in 
ogy, and a joint doctorate in philosophy and 
humanities, from Stanford University.
Entries for “Did you know?” may be sub­
mitted to The Tartan, clo Maureen Bren- 
han, Skibo Rm. 50, by Wednesday for 
publication the following Tuesday.
Wisch discusses new energy plan for CMU
SIGMA XITHE SCIENTIFIC RESEARCH SOCIETY
Camegie-Mellon University Chapter
Public Lecture
Preston K. Covey, assistant professor of 
philosophy, was recendy appointed a Dan- 
forth Associate for the period May, 1981, to 
June, 1986. He was honored for his dedica- 
don to teaching and his ability to work 
direcdy with students on a one-to-one basis.
The Danforth Foundation is a national 
educational philanthropy whose goal is the 
improvement of the quality of education.
Covey has been a faculty member since 
1973. As an Associate, he will be a guest at 
Danforth-sponsored conferences designed 
to strengthen teaching techniques. He will 
also be eligible for project grants aimed at 
improving faculty-student relations.
photo by Doug Ellis 
Jim Starr models ZBTs winning T-shirt.
Emphasis to be placed on cutting lighting and new steam monitoring system
by Carrie Woemer
On April 13, all Science Hall faculty 
members received a memo requesting that 
all electric typewriters be exchanged for 
more energy efficient manual models, 
signed Alec Jay Wisch, Energy' Coordinator. 
Fortunately, this memo was simply a 
belated April Fool’s joke. The campus 
energy plan, however, is not. The purpose 
of the plan is to implement standards which 
will insure that the educational goals of the 
University can be accomplished while hold­
ing energy use to the levels prescribed by 
federal regulations.
The energy bill for CMU this year will 
exceed 3 million dollars. According to 
Wisch, only a decade ago the University’s 
energy- costs were $500,000. To reduce these
soaring costs, Wisch intends to improve die 
efficiency of energy usage in the areas of 
campus lighting systems, the heating, venti­
lating and cooling systems, and campus 
awareness. “The problem,” Wisch says, “is 
that there are millions of switches and 7000 
people who have access to them.”
Presently, Wisch’s office is working on 
reducing the excess lighting in Science Hall, 
by removing unnecessary lights in comers, 
over doors, and in hallways. Also, the old 
bulbs are being replaced by more energy 
efficient ones. Wisch states, “if the lighting 
can be reduced by 50%, the University will 
save over $30,000 this year.”
The delamping of Science Hall is by no 
means the whole project. Wisch’s office has 
recently installed a steam monitoring sys­
tem that checks steam usage in most of the
campus buildings. There has also been 
work done to improve the overheating in 
the Morewood towers.
In the future, Wisch hopes to install a 
solar monitoring system on the front of 
Donner Hall to help improve the comfort of 
the students and save the University money 
on heating costs. He is also considering a 
plan where if students conserve a certain 
amount of energy they would receive some 
of their housing money back.
CMU has allocated $250,000 this year for 
the energy plan. Wisch is interested in 
heightening campus awareness of his work; 
-he is “more than happy, to hear 
suggestions”, i
In response to the bogus memo, Wisch 
states, “we would appreciate that the author 
out his own name on his ideas.”
YOU CAN
join a dynamic, concerned staff this 
summer at CMU’s FM radio station, 
WRCT. Positions are available in produc­
tion, news, engineering, and disc jockeying. 
No experience required-just a sincere com­
mitment to work with us.
Come to our meeting on Wednes­
day, April 29 at 8:30 p.m. in Skibo 
room 12 to learn how you can get 
involved.
Phones: 621 -WRCT or 578-2883 88.3
Funded by Activities Fee
Moral philosophy, particularly die theory 
and practice of moral argument, is Covey’s 
area of specialization, but he also works in 
applied logic. He has developed a package 
of computer programs in logic and argu­
ment analysis that are currently in use in a 
course in the H&SS core curriculum, Philo­
sophic Methods and Social Values.

---------------------------------------------------

April 28, 1981—The Tartan—Page 5
IRON CITY REGULAR 
IRON CITY LIGHT 
SCHLITZ 
BUD
SCHMIDTS
SCHMIDTS BOCK OARK 
CHAMPALE WHITE 
OR PINK 
STROHS 
GENESEE 
ROLLING ROCK 
SCHLITZ
BALLANTINE ALE 
MICHELOB REGULAR 
MICHELOB LIGHT 
PABST
PABST EXTRA LIGHT 
MILLER 
MILLER LIGHT 
COLT 45
GENESEE CREAM ALE 
WEIOEMAN
Original^ HfiT nnr,
Featuring 22 Varieties Steak Subs
SERVING BEER SUNDAY 1 PM - 2 AM
QUARTS MUGS PITCHERS 
CHOICE OF 6 DIFFERENT ORAFT BEERS 
MILLER. MICHELOB MOLSON ALE. HEINEKEN 
STROHS AND SCHLITZ MALT 
One different 16 oi 6 pk featured each week
SCHLITZ * PABST 
SCHLITZ WALT * STROHS *
WE ARE NOT ALLOWED TO 
ADVERTISE OUR LOW BEER PRICES
* SPECIALTY ITEMS *
FRESH CUT FRENCH FRIES-PtZZA SERVED TIL « AM 
HOT DOGS - CHOICE OF 12 DIFFERENT CONDIMENTS 
IS VARIETIES OF SANDWICHES 
IMPORTS
* BECKS LIGHT OR OAR* 
Germany
' CARLSBURG MALT 
Denmark 
' OORT HANSA Germany
* HOFBRAU Germany
* FISCHER GOLO France
* HOLSTER LAGER Germany 
*"ST PAULI GIRL Germany
* SPATER Germany
* HIGHES SPECIAL Norway 
' SWAH LAGER Aiiitrelia
* BASS ALE England 
MAC KESOR STOUT
WHITEBREAO PALE ALE
England
• PILsNsRER URQUELL 
CiectiKlovakia 
RIGHES Norway 
OOS EQUIS Mei ice 
FER0«lNel]
GUIRESS STOUT "eland 
GROLSCNE HeHand 
GOSSER Austria 
SAN MIGUEL PRUIpiMt 
KIRIN Japan 
MOLSON ALE Canada 
KRAKUS Poland 
HEWEKEM IT A OK Holland 
FOSTER S LAGER Awirain 
ANO MANY OTHERS
England 
' LOWENBRAU LIGHT OR 
OARK Germany
HOT DOG SHOPS INC 621-7388 or 621-1185
3S01 FORBES AV. (OAKLAND) POH.. .At 19213
CMU TRAVEL OFFICE
Senate news
Funds allocated for special dinner
A motion was passed to allocate $490 to 
fund a dinner for the previous senators at the 
last student senate meeting. This motion, 
which was passed 17-5-0, also stipulates that 
each senator who attends the dinner will be 
required to pay five dollars toward their 
meal.
Senator Laurie Elm (CTT) stated that the 
$490 was determined by estimating $25 per 
person for 22 senators, plus $20 each for 
Deans Cox and Swank. However, the final 
allocation of the funds has not yet been 
determined.
According to Senator Mark Fisher (CIT), 
General Campus Committee Chairman, 
this amount was decided upon to ensure 
that there will be enough money to cover the 
expenses of the 24 people attending the 
dinner. Fisher said it is doubtful that the 
entire $490 will be spent to pay for the 
dinner and he added that any surplus money 
will be put back into senate funds.
Ex-officio member Matt Mathias, Presi­
dent of the Graduate Student Organization, 
suggested an amendment to this motion 
which would lower the total allocation. He 
proposed that each senator’s contribution be 
raised from five to ten dollars, simultane­
ously lowering the allocation by this 
amount per senator. These alterations in the 
motion would cause the total figure to drop 
from $490 to $330. However, this amend­
ment was defeated.
Elections dominated other senate news. 
Two MCS/CIT vacancies were filled by 
Mark Feinstone, a sophomore math major, 
and Dave^ Ableman, a junior in chemical 
engineering. Mark Caine was re-elected as 
the treasurer of Student Senate. Senator 
Doug Camey (CFA) resigned his positionas 
chairman of the Academic Affairs Commit­
tee. He was replaced by Alexandra Kavoula- 
kis (CIT).
Student senate meets every Tuesday even­
ing at 6:30 in the Wherrett room in Skibo.
CIT/MCS social planned
by Maura Farrell
“Beaux Arts Ball for CFA, Spring Fling 
for H&SS, NOTHING FOR CIT/MCS!!!!” 
This message appeared at the top of a letter 
recently sent out to CIT/MCS students by 
Deirdre Dennis and Reena Khanna, two 
CIT sophomores who decided that it was 
time to unify CIT/MCS students. The letter, 
which was in questionnaire form, drew a 
fairly successful response.
According to Dennis, about 25% of the 
questionnaires sent out were returned with 
positive responses to the idea of a CIT/MCS 
annual social event. A meeting will be sche- 
¦dttled during the coming week in order to
begin organization for the social gathering.
The letter asked students what kind of an 
event would interest them; the most popular 
responses were a semi-formal or informal 
celebration which would be held in the 
spring. Several students supported the ideas 
of a dinner/dance, a Mardi-Gras celebra­
tion, or a picnic.
A question about the unity of CIT/MCS 
students also brought a positive response; 
most students felt that there would be 
enough cooperation among members of the 
college to have a successful event and many 
said that they would be willing to offer their 
help as 'Well.Description of suspect released
continued from page 1
description, and Westbrooks is giving infor­
mal safety talks in dorms. He stresses that 
students lock their doors and only use the 
main entrances to their residence halls. 
Although Westbrooks would like to see 
someone at the front desks of dorms 24 
hours, he made the point that it would be 
ineffective as long as students continued to 
prop open the fire and emergency doors.
Westbrooks endorses “Operation identifi­
cation” as one way of protecting oneself
from being burglarized. Operation identifi­
cation is part erf the Pennsylvania Crime 
Watch program. It involves engraving one’s 
drivers license number onto valuables and 
placing a sticker on one’s door which warns 
housebreakers that all valuables are marked.
Local law enforcement agencies will loan 
an electric engraving device free of charge. 
They will also provide Operation I.D. 
stickers. Further information is available 
through Campus Police in Baker Hall, 
phone 578-2323.
GSIA grads' starting salaries expected to average $30,000
Starting salaries for MBAs graduating 
from Camegie-Mellon University’s Gradu­
ate School of Industrial Administration 
(GSIA) this May will average over 30 thou­
sand, according to Director of Placement, 
Edward Mosier.
“The average accepted salary for the class 
to date is $30,100, up 10% over last year,” 
explains Mosier. “And that figure includes 
the traditionally lower paying public 
accounting positions.
He continued, “Offers ranged from a low 
of $15,600 to a high of $45,000 with the more 
experienced graduates generally receiving 
the higher offers. GSIA grads having three 
or more years of experience have accepted 
offers averaging $34,152.”
Mosier also reports that there has been
increased activity at GSIA in the consumer 
marketing/brand management area this 
past year, although salary offers have been 
somewhat lower than the average at $27,200. 
Other areas showing significant activity 
include the steel industry and the energy 
companies. Conversely, banking as an 
industry was not quite as active as last year 
with the market being "a bit tighter,” 
according to Mosier.
Exclusive of public accounting jobs, 
accepted salary offers to students with tech­
nical and non-technical backgrounds 
showed a minimal difference. For MBAs 
with technical backgrounds the average 
accepted offer is now $31,597 and the aver­
age for non-technical MBAs is $28,915.
OIL Ml FOR ME IIWMN- XÎ535OR SKIBO ROOM 58CftMPUs mu - Ale los Skibo
Participants “pig-out” in pie-eating contest
DON'T P/W THROUGH THE NOSE 
FOR FIRE CHEESES.....
ORDER W from THE 
CAMPUS CHEESE COMPANY
WE WY m UR&F QUANTITIES AMD PASS THE SAVING’S ON Tc YOU !

---------------------------------------------------

I went to the woods because I wished to live deliberately, 
to front only the essential facts of life, 
and see if I could not learn what it had to teach, 
and not, when I come to die, discover that I had not lived.
Words: Henry David Thoreau 
Photo: Ansel Adams
________
A Pubjic Scrvkc-
t»f This Ncv»spa|xr &
The Advcrti^ms Council
11.II.I I. .1 111 llli lit mi » JUIuJ
—-------

---------------------------------------------------

Features.
Victor “rassied” his 650 lbs. against 5 challengers
by Kathy Krummert
Shouts of “we want the bear” filled the 
crowded tent. Anticipation mounted and 
daring young men prepped for bear-fighun’ 
neared the stage. Victor the Rasslin’ Bear 
entered, leading his trainer by the chain 
650 pounds of Alaskan Brown set paw on 
stage and the crowd yelled him on. 8'3" on 
his hind feet and a wresder for 12 years, 
Victor would be no easy match. His trainer 
harnessed his muzzle, Victor downed a bot­
tle of 7-UP. Now he was ready.
First contender was Rob Rolleston, active 
AB member' all smiles, and weighing in at 
135 lbs. It was clear from the beginning that 
Victor was one tough rascal. Early on, he 
grabbed Rob by the seat of his pants. Rob 
groped for Victor’s hind legs-but all in vain. 
Rob was down. It certainly was a gallant try.
Carl Mulac stepped on stage second. They 
rassled back and forth and things were 
going fine, but Victor took a liking to Carl 
and began kissing him. Then Victor got 
him by the right leg and he was down too.
Nice try Carl.
Next was Gary Petrosky, who held him by 
the arms for a while. But Victor got his 
shoulders and kept him to the floor. Third 
man down.
A man named Mirk was the fourth daring 
challenger, but he was quickly down and 
booed from stage. . . sorry.
l he last brave soul was Dave Belch from 
ZBT. Turned out that Dave was probably ol’ 
Victor’s toughest contender. They held each
other’s arms, Dave’s head tucked under Vic­
tor’s great hairy chest. Victor was panting 
and licking his lips—Dave sure gave him a 
tough time. Finally, Victor downed him, 
but Dave left the stage smiling. . .
It seems Victor’s greatest weapon was the 
kiss-’n-kill-em tactic. At a crucial point in 
the match, Victor would slurp all over his 
opponents face! Some distraction!
The victor of the bout was, of course, the 
beast so named. His reward: an ice-cold 7- 
UP!
Restaurant review; Craziness after midnight
Primanti Bros, is just “one anomaly after another
by Kris Scigliano
With a major effort the screen door 
swings open into a sort of diner (or is it a 
bar?). A hundred people are jammed into 
the bright, smoke-filled room. A waiter in a 
white apron and t-shirt is in front holding 
two bar stools above his head. “Come on in, 
plenty of room right this way!” he shouts. 
Two facts are immediately obvious: we all 
have been drinking, and this can only be 
Primanti Brothers.
Primanti Brothers. You have probably 
heard the name somewhere before. At 
Camegie-Mellon this is not surprising. 
Making runs to Primanti’s (pronounced 
Pn-man-tees) after a night of studying or 
drinking is as big a ritual for students as 
going to Baker Hall to rub Hammerschlag’s 
nose before an exam. The restaurant itself 
the food they serve, and the people who 
inhabit the place, give Primanti’s an atmos­
phere all its own.
The restaurant opens at midnight, every 
night, and closes at three in the afternoon. 
At two in the morning on a Friday or a 
Saturday, you cannot get in because of the 
^owd. People cover the sidewalk in front of 
^e building and eat their cheese-steaks 
while sitting on the curb. It is that popular.
I he best five-word description of Priman-
11 s >s “one big anomaly after another.” The 
restaurant is located in an old warehouse in 
the heart of Pittsburgh’s scenic Strip District
places like T-N-T Groceries and Marshall 
Cold Meat Storage. One hundred yards 
down 18th Street are the railroad sidings; 
most of the city’s groceries pass over these. 
On the outside, the only things which dis­
tinguish the building from its neighbors are 
a green “Primanti Bros.” sign, and custo­
mers streaming in and out.
On the inside, the restaurant looks like a 
cross between the old Ritter’s diner, a Wen­
dy’s, and Tam’s bar. As you enter, a Wendy’s 
style counter runs the length of the dining 
room and turns right at the rear wall. At 
some invisible partition, near this bend, the 
restaurant becomes the bar.
Behind the counter, the kitchen equip­
ment is all in the same old-diner style, all 
stainless steel or aluminum — right down to 
the coffee urns. On the other side of the 
counter, five tables (with same formica 
design) and a herd of bar stools complete the 
furnishings. Covering the walls are original 
movie posters, Pittsburgh sports memorabi­
lia, and pictures of employees (whom I have 
never seen working there). It is safe to 
assume that any object which is not brand 
new was installed when the original Pri­
manti Brothers opened more than fifty years 
ago.
The popularity of Primanti’s is obviously 
more a result of the quality of their food 
than the scenery of the Strip district. Every 
order is custom cooked (not just prepared for 
anyone), and since they are located in the 
Strip district, ingredients are as fresh as possi­
ble. The basics at Primanti’s are a cheese- 
steak sandwich and a Coke. You can get 
other sandwiches, but on a busy night the 
management is not overjoyed about serving 
anything else. A typical Primanti’s cheese- 
steak sandwich consists of provolone cheese, 
salisbury steak, and tomato, stuffed between 
two slices of fresh Italian bread. As with all 
sandwiches at Primanti’s, the french fries 
and cole slaw are served on the sandwich. 
The whole package is about three inches 
thick, and on top of four or five erf your 
favorite beverage, nothing tastes better.
If you can get inside Primanti’s on a week­
end, you will see some people (from Heinz 
Hall or Heaven) wearing suits or evening 
gowns. Other customers from the surround­
ing produce yards wear work clothes. The 
Thursday night cook claims eight of ten 
customers are college students. Personally, I 
have never been there without seeing 
another CMU jacket or prominent staff 
member there also. With the possible ext ep- 
tion of Ritter’s diner (in Bloomfield), there is 
no place where you can expect to have a 
banker sitting on your left and a gang of 
bikers on your right.
The craziest people at Primanti’s are the 
employees — for the most part, they are 
insane. If you ask for catsup be ready to 
either catch it or let it hit the table when they 
throw it at you.
One Saturday night when the dining 
room was so packed that no one could get in 
or out, one employee was standing on a
chair brandishing a foot-long kitchen knife 
shouting, “Come on in folks, plenty of 
room!” At the same time, another employee 
behind the counter was shouting, “Whoever 
is done eating get the hell out so people can 
sit down!” The sight of the people pushing 
both ways was enough to strike awe into the 
hearts of even the mildly drunk customers.
One guy used to clean tables by placing a 
garbage can at the head of the table, reach­
ing in between its occupants and then 
whoosh-pulling everything into the gar­
bage can with his hands. He used to kick bar 
stools into place with enough force it 
sounded like he was firing a gun behind 
you. This may not sound impressive, but if 
you are sitting in Primanti’s and hear loud 
noises, it could be anything.
Although the atmosphere at Primanti s 
makes it almost a parody of a restaurant, it 
beats the predictability of a Wendy’s or 
McDonalds any day. No local standards for 
comparison exist for Primanti’s. The peo­
ple, the place itself, and food they serve give 
the restaurant its own unique aura. Priman­
ti’s sounds pretty crazy, and with the packets 
of catsup flying and diverse clientele, it cer­
tainly can be. Unlike GJ. Barneys though, I 
have never seen or heard of a fight at Pri­
manti’s in the five years I have been going 
there. For Pittsburghers, Primanti’s is not a 
restaurant, diner, or bar, it is simply Priman­
ti’s. A great place to eat when you’re out late 
and one of the places that make Pittsburgh 
someplace special. Check it out.

---------------------------------------------------

Page 8—The Tartan—April 28, 1981
CMU students compose for Umbrella Dance group
by Kathy Krummert
“One-two three. One-two-three. Ba- 
pa. Ba-pa."
Paul Draper taps his foot in time and 
says, “Now Michael, I’d like to hear it 
this way:..” He continues: “And the left 
leg should be here-” and demonstrates 
the kick for the dancers. Ba-da-pa.
Paul Draper, reknowned dancer, cho­
reographer, and former CMU instructor, 
and Michael Skloff, a senior majoring in 
composition, are working together on a 
piece with Janet Gillespie and Present 
Company, a modern dance company.
Denise Ondishko, a j unior in composi­
tion, is also working with the Company, 
on a second piece choreographed by Ms. 
Gillespie. And Bill Brewer, head costume 
designer at CMU, is designing costumes 
for both.
Both dances are for the group’s perfor­
mance in the Pittsurgh Dance Umbrella 
Series this weekend at the Pittsburgh 
Playhouse Craft Avenue Theatre.
Ms. Gillespie, artistic director of the 
Company, applied to the Howard Heinz 
Endowment to have a (fence choreo­
graphed for the Series. Paul Draper is a 
member of the Pittsburgh Dance Council 
board, and through the support of the 
Heinz Endowment, came in December to 
choreograph a dance. The piece, IV, III, 
II, For All, in three contrasting move­
ments, required music, so Draper went to 
the head of the composition program at 
CMU, Leonard Balada, who recom­
mended Michael Skloff for the job.
To compose the music, Skloff would 
“watch the dance and take down rhythm
dictation, to space out where things were 
happening. Because the movements have 
different types of rhythm, feel, it is hard 
to write music with continuity. The 
second movement is not like jazz at all 
while the third is modern jazz. The style 
of music is different too. Skloff chose to 
follow through with instrumental tex­
ture, that is: the first piece incorporates a 
clarinet, a drum, and a bongo; the second, 
a clarinet, with piano and bass; and the 
third, a saxophone, with bass and a 
drum-the instruments tie the move­
ments together. \
This is the first time Skloff has worked 
with a dance company. He finds that the 
members of Present Company are good 
dancers, but a little unused to this kind 
of jazz oriented piece.
Skloff has accompanied various coffee­
house performers, composed for such stu­
dio productions as Bertrano and 
Acrobats, and wrote the music for a main- 
stage production last year, Lady from 
Maxim’s.
Denise Ondishko encountered the 
same sort of challenge as Michael. When 
Janet asked her to compose the music for 
her own “Double Quatre Blue”, the 
dance had already been choreographed.
Though more difficult, Ondishko 
finds this situation advantageous for the 
dancé. When the piece is made without 
music, then “the dance does not rely on 
the music.” In the same way, it is good 
“to make a piece of music that can stand 
on its own and need not fill in the gaps,” 
which is the case with her composition.
The style of Double Quatre Blue is def-
initely modern. Ondishko is writing in 
“minimal” style, that is, very softly and 
using small amounts of material that is 
repetitive. She says of her work, “I’m very 
soft; I don’t want to overtake the dance.”
Janet Gillespie and Present Company 
was founded in 1977 when Ms. Gillespie 
ended her academic career and left her 
position as assistant professor of French 
at Duquesne University. She studied 
ballet for 25 years in Portland, Oregon; 
Berkeley, California; at thè Royal 
Academy of Dance in London; and in 
New York City with Joffrey Ballet. In 
1975, she began to study modern dance 
with Dan Wagoner.
Through the years, visiting dancers 
including Viola Farber, the Zero Moving 
Company, and Murray Louis have con­
tributed to the Company’s formation.
Present Company members include 
Janet Gillespie, Pat Dushene, Peggy Gal­
lagher, Patty Goldman, Thomas' 
Jeanette, Stephanie Lester, Mary Pat 
Mengato, Michelle Roberto, David 
Robinson, and Toni Semple. Aside from
.the company work, individual dancers 
teach and are encouraged to 
choreograph.
The Company has performed at the 
University of Pittsburgh, Three Rivers 
Arts Festival, in “Celebration 80 - 
Women in the Arts” in Harrisburg, and 
with the Pittsburgh Symphony in the 
Tiny Tots Series. They were featured on 
WQED’s “Dance in Pittsburgh” and 
presented a concert with the Pittsburgh 
Plan for the Art-Gallery 407. They col­
laborate regularly with the Renaissance 
City Woodwind Quintet. In schools in 
the area, they conduct residencies and 
workshops and look forward to broaden­
ing their audience and working spaces. 
Their home is the Dance Gallery at 420 
North Craig Street.
Tickets for the May 1 and 2 performan­
ces are available at the Pittsburgh Dance * 
Council office on the second floor of 
Heinz Hall. Beginning April 28, they 
will also go on sale at the Pittsburgh 
Playhouse Craft Avenue Theatre in Oak­
land.
Open Forum: A ClT student responds
EE applauded; H&SS due Thurs,
Editor
I’ve been enrolled in GIT for the past 4 
years and would like to give my impressions 
of the Electrical Engineering department, its 
staff, and faculty.
The Electrical Engineering department 
has always been responsive to the needs of
RIP US OFF.
That’s right. We re inviting you to rip off one of our student 
discount coupons now displayed on your school bulletin board.
If you’re a student, it entitles you to an immediate 10% discount 
on shocks, mufflers, and all exhaust systems repair work at Speedy Muffler King.
If none is available simply bring in this ad and we’ll give you the 
same 10% discount.
Do it soon, though. This offer is for a limited time only.
The 10% discount can not be used in conjunction with any other discount or special 
prices. Offer good through December 31, 1981.
Columbus 
2321 Morse Rd.
614 475-8623
Columbus 
3085 Olentangy Rvr. Rd. 
614 262-0294
Columbus 
590 E. Broad St. 
614 464-0297
Columbus 
6309 E. Main St. 
614 863-1465
Bexley 
2260 E. Livingston 
614 231-3011
the students. The faculty has made changes 
in the curriculum, grading policies, and 
course content as a result of student input. 
I’ve taken 18 courses from the EE depart­
ment and have found all of these to be not 
only useful but also taught by professors 
with a genuine interest and expertise in the 
material. It has not been hard to make 
friends with the professors. They seem eager 
to help in any way they can, academically or 
otherwise. Even the staff of the department 
is friendly and cooperative, not to mention 
hardworking.
The biggest plus the department has 
going for itself is its professors. They are in 
my opinion very qualified and take a great 
deal of time and care in organizing the lec­
tures and content of the courses. In a lot of 
cases it would appear the most important 
thing to them is to see us leam the material. 
In light of this attitude they have made what 
most of us think to be a very difficult ctimcu- 
lum into one that is very worthwhile.
The new department head seems to be 
just as sufier.as the rest of the faculty, and I* 
have no doubt he will do much to streng­
then my opinion that Camegie-Mellon has 
the finest undergraduate Electrical Engi-^ 
neering dejxirtment anywhere.
Neil Yosinski 
EE ’81
A Philip Pelusi Haircut for $6.00!!
Register for hair cutting classes. 
Call 261-6550 or stop by our 
salon in 
Squirrel Hill, The Bank Center 
or Century III Mall
Pregnant?
And you didn’t mean to be? 
For a free pregnancy test and 
confidential help call
Birthright 621-1988

---------------------------------------------------

Entertainment.
Santana rocks appreciative CMU crowd
by Adam Lauzar
Santana brought its high-charged brand 
of la tin-flavored rock, jazz and fusion to 
Camegie-MelIon’s gymnasium last wee­
kend. Playing a mix of old classics and cuts 
from the new album Zebop, Santana had the 
audience standing in the aisles and dancing 
and clapping to their rhythmic rock.
Ths show, which lasted a little over two 
hours, was a testimony to the staying power 
of Carlos Santana and a reinforcement of the 
strong influence Santana has exerted on the 
rock world.
After a warm greeting from the sell-out 
crowd, the band burst into three songs from 
Zebop and the classic Santana sound began 
to take shape: percussionists wailing away 
on congos, drums and cowbells while the 
drum and bass keep a steady rhythm. On top 
of all this is Carlos Santana’s lead guitar
weaving melodius harmonies and stringing 
in and out of the music.
Devadip Carlos Santana, like a fine wine, 
seems to improve with age. His style and 
technique are flawless. He plays both a sear­
ing and mellow lead with an original flair 
chat is smooth and expressive. During the 
concert, Carlos displayed endless enthusi­
asm and energy'. This energy, coupled with 
the catchy Latin beat of the percussion, is 
typical of the power and drive that first made 
the group popular in the sixties.
Slick Professionals in the Band
The eight musicians that make up the 
band resembled more a collection of family 
friends than the slick professionals that they 
are. Armando Peroza, the elderly black 
congo player, was like the patriarch of the 
band, while Devadip Carlos was the spirit­
ual leader.
The other two percussionist, Paul Rekow 
(congos) and Orestes Vilato (assorted drums 
and bells) made up the heart of the Santana 
sound. All three kept up a veritable barrage 
of beats throughout the concert. David Mor­
gan on bass and Graham Lear on drums 
provided the rock-steady rhythyms which 
the songs grow out of.
Keyboard player Richard Baker was very 
adept and singer/guitarist Alex Ligertwood 
provided good vocal work along with good 
second guitar. There was a very' good chem­
istry between the members as they seemed to 
enjoy* playing together as much as the 
audience enjoyed listening to them. The 
musical arrangements were all very precise 
and featured a lot of stop and go 
orchestration.
Playing favorites such as “Black Magic 
Woman,” “Evil Ways,” “Well, All Right’’
and “Moonflower,” and new cuts such as 
“Winning,” Santana captured the audience 
and kept everyone enthralled with excellent 
musicianship and a lavish light show.
CMU Loved Santana and Vice Versa
There seemed to be a genuine feeling of 
warmth between those packed into the gym 
and the band. Santana came out for four 
encores at the end of the show and each time 
out they were applauded more wildly.
Santana has long been a popular, unique 
creative force on the musical front: the new 
album Zebop, and the performance in 
Camegie-Mellon’s Spring Carnival Concert 
’81 reinforced that standing. Santana, the 
band, has gone through many changes, but 
Santana, the man and the sound, are still the 
same and as “right now” as ever.
From left to right: David Morgan (base), Alex Ligertwood (vocals/guitar), and Devadip 
(guitar) keep time.
Devadip Carlos Santana looks out over a sold-out audience.

---------------------------------------------------

Page 10—The Tartan—April 28, 1981
*
Three troupes to appear under new Dance Umbrella
by Kathy Krummert
Umbrella usually refers to a spoked, 
dome-shaped object that protects one from 
the elements of rain or shine. But the Pitts­
burgh Dance Umbrella is special: it exposes 
one to the elements of the best modem dance
in Pittsburgh. The Pittsburgh Dance 
Umbrella is performing this weekend, May 
1 and 2, at the Pittsburgh Playhouse Craft 
Avenue Theatre in Oakland.
This Umbrella’s support is from three 
Pittsburgh-based dance companies: Janet 
Gillespie and Present Company, Pittsburgh 
Black I heare Dance Ensemble, and the
Pittsburgh Dance Alloy. The Umbrella 
Dance Series was initiated by the Howard 
Heinz Endowment and developed by the 
Pittsburgh Dance Council and Murray 
Louis, a New York dancer/choreographer.
Through the Umbrella, serious dancers 
and choreographers have been able to per­
form professionally throughout the Pitts­
burgh area. The Umbrella Series brings 
three companies together twice a year, once 
each in the spring and the fall. This week’s 
performance brings all new material to the 
program.
even Over$10,
i,0in
Umbrella Series
Tickets for the performance are available 
at the Pittsburgh Dance Council at Heinz 
Hall and at the Pittsburgh Playhouse Craft 
Avenue Theatre in Oakland.
WANT TO MAKE GOING 
HOME HASSLE — FREE?
Store your furniture, cloths, books, etc.
Everything fuOy insured.
Can LIBERTY STORAGE 
471-2510
Also appearing “under the Umbrella” will be the Pittsburgh Dance Alloy.
Pittsburgh Black Theater Dance Ensemble will appear on May 1 and 2 at the Pittsburgh 
Playhouse.
Janet Gillespie and Present Company
Janet Gillespie and Present Company has 
performed throughout the city, including 
the Three Rivers Arts Festival, the Pitts­
burgh Plan for Art, Pittsburgh Public Thea­
tre, with the Pittsburgh Symphony in the 
Tiny Tots Concert, and twice annually with 
Renaissance City Woodwind Quintet. The 
company of ten dancers conducts classes in 
modem dance and ballet at its studio, the 
Dance Gallery, on North Craig Street.
They will perform two pieces: “IV,III,II, 
For All,” and “Double Quatre Blue.”
Black Theatre Dance Ensemble
The Pittsburgh Black Theatre Dance 
Ensemble’s repertoire includes modem, jazz, 
Afro-American, and African. They too have 
appeared throughout the area and devote 
much time to dance instruction in the Pitts­
burgh community. At their own school, the 
Afro-American Dance Center, they offer 
classes in ballet, modem, jazz, and Afro- 
American techniques for both children and 
adults, with workshops conducted by such
artists as John Parks and Clive Thompson. 
The Ensemble also works with elementary 
school children through the Outreach 
program.
The Ensemble will perform “Ritual of 
Emotive Landscape,” “East Meets East,” 
and “Galactic Funk.”
Pittsburgh Dance Alloy
The Pittsburgh Dance Alloy’s repertoire 
consists of a broad range of styles and tech­
niques with contributions from members 
and such choreographers as Kathryn Posin.
They have just completed their first sub­
scription season at Chatham’s Eddy Thea­
tre, sponsored by the Chatham College 
Performing Arts Series. They plan to con­
tinue their educational activities this 
summer by conducting a dance workshop at 
St. Philomena’s in Squirrel Hill. Their tour­
ing schedule for next year includes perfor­
mances at the State Universtiy of New York 
at Brockport and at the Harbour Front Per­
forming Arts in Toronto.
“Concerto,” “Trilateral Hop,” “Raft,” 
and “Until” are the titles of the Company’s 
works for the Umbrella Series.
chALLeNQe
xl youR
Lipe sxryLe?
•Self Fulfillment • Brotherhood •Service to Others
Considerxrbe FranciscansProvince of Immaculate Conception
948 Tropical Avenue, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania 15216 
Friar Michael: 412/341-1000 ¦ Friar Francis: 412/661-9071
ABORTION
• free pregnancy tests
• confidential counseling
WOMEN’S HEALTH 
SERVICES, INC.
downtown Pittsburgh 
(412) 562-1910
a non-profit madlcal facility
Red Cross:Ready for a new century.
A Public Service ol This Newspaper 
& The Advertising Council

---------------------------------------------------

April 28, 1981—The Tartan—Page II
Metro stages dark Poe short stories
by Johanna Schmertz
The Metro has done Poe justice with 
generally convincing acting, deft editing, 
and haunting musical interludes in Poe: 
The Master Storyteller. But the more grisly 
aspects of Poe’s work are underplayed due to 
the physical and financial restraints of the 
technical end of the production and the nar­
rative nature of some of the works chosen.
Poe is in the last week of its run. It is being 
jx iformed in the drawing room of the Pitts­
burgh Center for the Arts like former inti­
mate entertainments for the gentility of 
English estates. The idea sounded appeal­
ing and original. Unfortunately, the draw­
ing room turned out not to have enough of 
the appropriate grandeur to be an asset ana 
the proximity of the actors to the audience 
worked only when the audience was being 
directly addressed.
¡Tie opening piece is excerpted from The 
Fall of the House of Usher, with Michael 
Cook as the narrator. The work tends to 
long descriptive passages and the narrative 
is a written account more than a natural 
spoken retelling. This meant that the char­
acter was subordinate to his description and 
the piece did not make a yery successful 
transition to the stage. Cook is responsible 
for adapting Poe’s work for performance 
and his work is very- effective later in the 
program, but in this case some of the flavor 
of the words is lost and the work is better 
read than seen.
Susan Chapek followed The Fall of the 
House of Usher singing the poem The 
Sleeper, set to synthesizer music by CMU 
music major Dave Knapp. The subject of 
the poem is a dead woman — Poe’s favorite 
topic! — and Knapp’s music fits perfectly, 
enhancing the eerie moumfulness of the 
poem. The choice of the synthesizer as the
medium was a brilliant insight on the part 
of the Metro.
The highlight of the evening for most 
people was Shirley Tannenbaum’s comic 
portrayal of a self-satisfied “lady of breed­
ing’’ who meets a gruesome fate in A Predic­
ament. Here the narrative^ is definitely 
written as if spoken by the character and
I annenbaum’s interpretation is rich and 
lively. Certain passages which show how 
well deserved the lady’s death is were deleted, 
but this makes the humor more delicious in 
being more shocking. It was verv funnv and
showed a facet of Poe that is often ignored.
There was a brief intermission preceded 
by The Raven with Michael Cook as the 
obsessed lover. After the intermission 
(which was more pleasant than most with 
the galleries of the Center to be explored!) 
there wasa piece entitled “The Confessors,” 
an amalgam of The Telltale Heart and The 
Black Cat. The stories parallel each other in 
many respects (they wrere written in the same 
year) and Cook’s use of these parallels in his 
adaptation is intriguing. Cook began as the 
murderer in The Black Cat, bringing his
narrative up to the point where he commits 
his crime. The focus then shifted to the 
opposite side of the stage and Steven Levy 
became the confessor of The Telltale Heart. 
The piece continued to alternate between 
Levy and Cook as the murderers conceal 
dieir crimes and are discovered through 
their own guilt. As the mood became more 
intense, the shifts from actor to actor quick­
ened. The pieces were integrated quite suc­
cessfully from both acting and writing 
standpoints.
Nighthaivks will play GSO party
by Stan Chapman
" On Friday, May 1, the Graduate Student 
Organization will hold its Spring Celebra­
tion featuring free beer, drinks, hors d’oeu- 
vres and a performance by the celebrated 
blues band, The Nighthawks.
Blues have always been regarded as the 
black musicians’ territory. The existance of 
so many great blac k bluesman like Muddy 
Waters, John Lee Hcx>ker, Howling Wolf, 
B.B. King and numerous others has kept 
most white* musicians from trying to crack 
the traditional blues market. But The Nigh- 
thavvksm four man blues band from Char­
lottesville, Virginia have, by virtue of their 
talent, overcome this fear. For die last eight 
years the Nighthawks have been playing to 
ever increasing crowds in clubs, bars, and 
concert halls across the nation.
The band consists of guitarist Jim 
'1'hackery, Jan Zukowski on bass, vocalist 
Mark Wenner and drummer Pete Ragusa. 
The Nighthawks’ sound is the classic Chica- 
gao Blues style with some southern influen­
ces. rhackery’s guitar work (similar in 
sound and skill to George Thorogood) car­
ries the band dirough a number of originals 
and blues classics ananged so as to high­
light Mark Wenner’s harmonica and vocals. 
As Wenner says: “I felt that when the band 
was bom in 1972, it was a bleak period for 
ane blues. A lot of the original blues artists 
retreated to Chicago or to die Soudi by then, 
and some of the white acts who had built 
their reputation by being based in the blues 
were branching out into other things.”
With these views in mind die band slow ly 
carved itself a niche in the modem blues 
scene. Many greats of die genre have joined 
the Nighthawks on stage at various times. 
Johnny Winters, Muddy Waters, Bonnie 
Rait, Elvin Bishop are just a few of the 
artists. A few years back, Gregg Allman 
joined the band on stage for a jam and ended 
up louring with the <group for a string of 
dates.
Reputation for Exciting Blues Rock
While they do not have the recognition 
and acclaim of many lesser acts, the Nigh-
thawks have established a reputation for 
exciting blues-rock that has given them a 
strong cult following and the respect of fel­
low’ musicians.
The band’s ability to lay down strong 
rock and roll has resulted in some pretty 
interesting gigs for the Nighthawks. One 
was in Georgetown, D.C. where George 
Thorogood was playing across the street. At 
a pre-designated time, both bands began 
playing “Madison Blues.” Thackery and 
TTiorogood each walked out of their respec­
tive clubs, still playing guitars, met in the 
middle of the street (literally stopping traf­
fic), jammed awhile, switched cords, and 
then continued on, each joining the other’s 
band to finish the song.
While George Thorogood will not be 
playing across Forbes Avenue this Friday, I 
would urge anyone interested in high qual­
ity blues-rock to check out the band. And the 
free beer. The Spring Celebration will begin 
at 8:30 in the Skibo Ballroom. Tickets are$2 
in advance, $3 at the door; proof of age is 
required.
At Great "X" we’re looking ahead with something that will keep you coming back again and again.
Hair cutters that listen.
HAIRCUTS 
(Wash-Cut-Mow)
12“
Mon.TuM. W*d. 
Thur». fj\. 10-9
Sai. 9-6
COLORINO
MT Atwood Stroot 
Acro« tfm «troot from 
Omklmné Pert OfBc* 
407-9500
PERMANENTS
2500
10-7
UNISEX HAIR SALON No Appointments
SENIORS
Packets containing 
information on 
commencement, 
including 5 invitations, 
will be available in your 
department offices during the week of APRIL 27.
Public Retations Office 
Baker Hall 160

---------------------------------------------------

Women’s heats get rolling but men will have to wait
by Gregg Bossier
Guess what!?! Buggies have been post­
poned — or so Buggy Council hopes. Next 
Sunday is the tentative date for the comple­
tion of the heats competitions.
Last weekend the weather just didn’t seem 
to want to comply with the racers’ pleas for a 
nice day. Not since 1926 has Sweepstakes 
weekend been rained out on both Friday and 
Saturday; and back then they simply can­
celled the races. Hopes are that this year 
history doesn’t repeat itself.
Friday morning buggy racers were anx­
iously awaiting the start of the day’s compe­
titions but rain caused the events to be 
postponed until the following day. How­
ever, the weather wasn’t so nice on Saturday 
either. Heats were postponed until 10 a.m. 
because of the conditions. Then the 
women’s heats began. All three were com­
pleted and one men’s heat was run, but rain 
threatened and Sweepstakes were put off.
In the first women’s heat CIA-A led the 
pack with a phenomenal 3:07:02, but that 
got them only second place as SDC-A beat 
that time with a 3:04:08. Third place was 
claimed by SDC-B with a 3:34:02. The driver 
in the winning buggy, SDC-A’s, was fresh­
man Robert Krauthamer. The six girl team 
consisted of Michelle Chambliss (Hill 1), 
Gretchen Maerker (Hill 2), Patty Prim (Hill
3), Lori Zuti (Hill 4), and Karen Chapman 
(Hill 5).
One moment in the women’s heat caused 
people to hold their breaths for a minute; In 
the first heat, the Fringe-B buggy spun out 
of control but luckily no one was hurt in the 
accident.
photo by Robert Zusman
Karen Chapman pushes Robert Krauthamer down Hill 5 in SDC-A’s buggy, Blue Haze, for a record breaking time of 3:04:08.
WOMEN’S HEAT 1CIA-A 3:07:02DTD-A ' 3:39:04Fringe-B ' spun out
WOMEN’S HEAT 2
SDC-B 3:34:02DU-A .3:51:06
•.' • -1 -» < "< t ^ T a ''yyte-sWOMEN’S HEAT 3SDC-A 3:04:08CIA-B 3:35:08Fringe-A 3:38:08
MEN’S HEAT 2Pika-D 2:29:00Kap Sig-C 2:48:08Theta Xi-B 3:34:03
- ' . ' ' ' ¦
Tartan runners still holding 
on to PAC Championship title
by Mark T. Knapp
Over the past two weeks the Tartans have 
accumulated a long list of victories. Geneva, 
Washington and Jefferson, Allegheny, 
Bethany, and Hiram all bit the dust when 
they attempted to overthrow the mighty 
Tartans. The team still remains undefeated 
in dual meets this year and now, going into 
the conference championships, it seerrts the 
PAC track throne will most likely stay with 
CMU.
If the Tartans do maintain their title, 
Meek ley will have coached the team to three 
consecutive titles. This means the team will 
be more than half way to a NCAA DIV­
ISION III record. The current record for the 
most consecutive titles now stands at five, 
with CMU coming on strong. Coach Meck- 
ley feels that the team can get that record and 
even raise it. Backed by an extremely strong 
distance team, and further encouraged by 
the top high school prospects that he is 
recruiting, Meckley seems quite optimistic.
Two of the meets, against Geneva and 
Hiram, came in the middle of last week. 
This fact caused a problem fear the team 
since some of the top athletes were unable to 
attend because erf tests and class work. How­
ever, since the Tartans are so strong with 
depth, Meckley still managed to gain a vic­
tory for CMU.
Trouble set in after the Geneva meet 
when some of the runners sustained slight 
injuries. Kevin Cureton, running the 
anchor for the 400 meter relay team, was one 
of those hurt. Still Kevin’s run was simply 
amazing. When Cureton received the baton, 
he looked up only to find himself a good 
distance behind Geneva’s anchor man. 
However, the crowd saw him simply blow 
by Geneva and increase his lead to about
twenty yards at the finish within the next ten 
seconds. But, because of this sudden burst of 
tremendous speed, he overextended himself 
and pulled his hamstring, sending shudders 
through Coach Meckley. Kevin relaxed his 
training for about a week and under Meck­
ley’s coaching was able to rebuild himself 
enough to top condition for the upcoming 
PAC Championships.
This past Saturday, while the tempera­
ture hovered around freezing and Spring 
Carnival was in full swing, the Tartans 
packed up their spikes and headed for 
Allegheny College. Despite the bitter cold, 
and rumors that Allegheny might upset the 
Tartans, when the final score was counted 
CMU had won again.
In the mile run, CMU saw the first runner 
break into the overwhelming power of the 
CMU distance team. Allegheny’s Tom 
Held, a well respected runner among the 
conference runners, combined his fine abil­
ity with nothing but pure guts to edge by 
CMU freshman Mike Short for four laps of 
Allegheny’s track. Dario Donatelli didn't 
run the mile but, inspired by Held’s victory 
or rather Short’s defeat, he gained CMU- 
revenge by winning the three mile. Allegh- 
eny.put up a good fight but they just have to 
fight better to beat CMU.
The team now boasts a 7-0 record, pluS 
has the PAC Relay Title under its belt. With 
this impressive record behind them, they 
pose quite an intimidating force against all 
other teams as they go to Case Western 
Reserve University this Friday an^ 
Saturday.
Just an inside tip to give you some edge in 
the betting for this meet, here is a direct 
quote from an inside source...“Hie only 
continued on page 1^
j>hoto by Robert Zusman 
Pika-D came out on top in the only men’s heat run with a time of 2:29 even.

---------------------------------------------------

April 28, 1981—The Tartan—Page 13
ARTIST ENGINEERING DRAFTING. SUPPLIES
355-0444OPEN SAT. 10 to 5 P G
TOP NOTCH
ART MATERIALS. INC. 
819 PENN AVE ( PGH )
Tartan track
* IM track meet draws record setting 150 runners^
continued from page 12 
way CMU will loose the title this year will 
, be if the world ends — or something like 
' that.” Make your bets accordingly!
The team wishes to t) lank all those people 
who have sponsored them for Moe Smith, 
and anyone else interested should see any 
member of the team. Tins coming Sunday a 
benefit will be held on Moe’s behalf. The 
team will present your helpful donation to 
Moe then.
The champions in the women’s league
were:
High Jump 
Shot Put
Anderson
Williams
B.D. Striders 
B.D. Striders 
Zanzibar 
B.D. Striders 
B.D. Striders 
B.D. Striders 
B.D. Striders 
Zanzibar
880 yd. Run Denzan 
100 yd. Dash Chapman 
410 yd. Dash Prim 
880 Relay A-Team 
220 yd. Dash Michelle 
1 Mile Relay
In softball news the stats are shaping up 
despite the rainy weather. In the major
by Leslie Weiser
This year’s intramural track meet was 
held last Wednesday with a record 150 com­
petitors entering in the meet. A large 
increase in the number of women was 
immediately evident. Bob Duda, president 
of the Intramural Board, was commissioner 
and Sanford Rivers of the Admissions 
detriment was the referee.
In the minor division the team winners 
were Zanzibar in first place with 97 points, 
B.D. Striders in second with 79 points, and 
ATO in third place with 61 points; followed 
by Pika, Theta Xi, Phi Kap and GSIA. In 
the women’s division Zanzibar was also first 
with a total of 107 points and BI). Striders 
came in a close second with 102 points.
A new IM record was set in the long jump 
by Victor Parrott of the B.D. Striders, meas­
uring 20 feet 10 inches. The other cham­
pions in the men’s league were:
Long Jump Juzang B.D. Striders
High Jump Lites B.D. Striders
Shot Put Drak ATO
880 Relay McDaniels/ B.D. Striders
White/Juzang/
Parrott
Mile Run Anderson/ Zanzibar
Bailey
100 yd. Dash Gens Pika
440 yd. Dash James B.D. Stiders
880 yd. Run Bailey Zanzibar
220 yd.Dash Gens Pika
1 Mile Relay B.D. Stiders
league there are only two undefeated teams, 
ATO-A and Wild Bunch. In the interme- 
diate league Cones & Co. and T & A share 
the lead. In the minor league Computer 
Science and Flying Circus are tied for the 
number one spot. In the women’s league the 
first place team is Kappa Kappa Gamma.
Any makeup games are posted on the IM 
bulletin board. Please don’t call the IM 
office to find out if your game’s rained out. 
Also, remember to pick up and return all the 
equipment to the shed on the IM field. The 
commissioners are Mike Pochan for the 
major league, phone 683-0372; Wes Seeley 
for the intermediate and women’s leagues, 
phone 687-0843; and Mike Grant fof the 
minor league, phone 683-0372.
All teams participating in the following 
sports should get all games played on time 
and turn in the scores to their respective 
commissioners: co-rec table tennis, (David 
Kusme, X4270); ultimate frisbee, (Henry' 
Thome, X4529); bridge, (Eric Theis, 682- 
9580); weightlifting, (Mr. Keppler, X2222); 
table tennis, (Glen Rosenthal, 683-3864 or
682-9166); team call pool, (Dave Hecht, 687- 
7767); and individual call pool, (Les Joel,
683-8630).
photo by C Juu k Undekel
The B.D. Striders swept the honors at the annual IM track meet.

---------------------------------------------------

Announcements.
classifiedapartments
Summer sublet...large, fully furnished apart­
ment, two porches, two bedrooms, available mid- 
May. Rent negotiable. Call 621-6718 anytime.
House for rent Sq. Hill, 3 bedroom, equipped 
kitchen, wall-to-wall, drapes, off-street parking. 
$435 plus. Available May 1.421-1410 or 562-5931.Services
Italian, Spanish, German and English Tutoring
by degreed native teachers. For additional info 
call 661-1211.
Moving and light hauling-campjxs based and 
reasonable. Evenings 687-3062
Professional typing at reasonable rates: thesis, 
term papers, legal briefs, cassette transcriptions. 
Call Ms. West 371-3657 (24 hrs, IBM service)
Typing-experienced, freelance secretary, will 
, type at home; papers, theses, statistics, etc. IBM 
Selctric II, 521-7888
Want it done right? Typing, editing, profession­
ally prepared by a Ph.D graduate. Reports, 
manuscripts, theses, dissertations. Prompt, effi­
cient, reasonable. IBM executive. Susan, 963- 
7558. Call after 4 p.m.
Typing, term papers, letters, dissertations, etc. 
Call Shirley, 521-0534, before 9 p.m. if possible
Skydiving Instructions. First jump course 
through advanced free fall techniques. Group 
rates and student discounts. North Hills area. 
Freedom skydivers. 224-6624.
Resumes. Have your resume written and 
designed by a professional. Special rates few stu­
dents. Call K. Donnelly Comm unications 521- 
1863.Buy and Sell
Microscope for sale: in excellent condition, no 
longer needed by medical student. 5,10,40, lOOx 
objectives, built-in light, condenser; sturdy 
wooden case included. Asking $575. Call 621-
4644.
Functional furniture at affordable prices. Call 
Becky or Lois at 681-7260.
The Campus Cheese Company will be taking 
orders until April 29th for the May 1st delivery.
Cash: Wanted, 10,000 Late Model Wrecks and 
Junkers, Used Cars, Trucks, 23. hrs. 422-9968
Pre-med or accepted to medical school?? See ad 
for microscope in this issue.
Help Wanted
Temporary labor. Jobs available. Warehouse, 
loading-unloading trucks, forklift needed. Shor­
t/long term. All areas, phone/car necessary. Must 
be 18. Call few appointments. Manpower Tem­
porary Services. 471-8912
Summer Counselor Positions Available. Appli­
cants are now being considered for the 1981 camp 
season. Must be able to teach one of the follow­
ing; Arts and Crafts, Arts and Crafts Director, 
Dancing, Theater Director, Piano Accompanist 
and Singing, Archery, Tennis, Trampoline, 
Gymnastics, Photography, Teaching, Jazzercize, 
Scouting and Nature Study, A.R.C. Swimming 
Instructor or General Atheletics. Counselor Unit 
Leaders, must be college graduate experienced in 
camping. Able to plan schedule for activities, 
evening program, etc. Supervise large staff. Write 
Camp Office, 6410 Beacon St.,Pittsburgh Pa. 
15217 or phone 412-521-2376.
Summer Jobs. Temporary typing/secretarial 
jobs available. Short/long term. All areas. Must 
be 18. Call for appointments. Manpower Tem­
porary Services. 391-7034.
Musicians wanted for progressive music 
collaborating—someone open-minded and 
inventive-tuned into classical music and/or jazz 
and/or British progressive rock. Let's talk...Jerry 
621-1641.
Student to sit two children on S. Linden, from 
4:00 p.m. to 8:30 a.m. school days and on wee-r 
kends, infrequendy, and with notice, for a mom 
who travels. Call Joan at 433-2915 or 362-0166.
College students: National Company needs .10 
students for full time summer employment in 
marketing. Earn up to $4000, plus $1000 cash 
scholarships. Call 787-1795.
Want to be a camp Counselor (or camp nurse or 
office manager) this summer? The U.A.H.C. 
Joseph and Betty Harlem Camp is looking for 
mature responsible people. What’s in it for you? 
Investment in a dynamic Reform Jewish Com­
munity. A beautiful and healthy environment in 
the Poconos. Salary commensurate with ability, 
experience and qualifications. For more informa­
tion call B’nai Brith Hillel at 621-8875
Summer jobs. Local and overseas-write for infor­
mation td:
A.P. Company E. Tropicana Dept.
7a-l 10 Las Vegas, Nevada 89109.
Include a self-addressed envelope
Activists—citizens’ organization needs people 
committed to fight for fair ability rates and safe 
energy. Excellent training, advancement oppor­
tunities. Hours 2-10 p.m. Earn $134-175 dollars 
per week. Call Pennsylvania Alliance for Jobs 
and Energy. 9-5 p.m. 566-2290
Summer counseling jobs are available for under­
graduate and graduate women majoring in a 
science or engineering discipline. Applicants 
must be able to live on campus for one or two 
weeks of the summer (July 19-24 or July 26-31), 
though they may hold day jobs off campus. 
Anyone interested should pick up details and 
applications in the Admissions Office, Warner 
Hall.
Child care volunteers needed for Parent Anonym­
ous meetings. Weekly meetings, two hours jxt 
meeting. Contact Sharon Fishman. 562-9140
official
The new edition of the booklet entitled Presenta­
tion of Fine Arts Graduates is now available in 
the CFA’s Dean’s Office. Free few all graduating 
students who wish to develop a strategy, tools, 
and resumes toward their search for a career in 
their respective disciplines.
Exit interviews for all May 1981 graduates with 
National Direct/Defense Student Loans will be 
held from April 27 through April 30th. Inter­
views will also be held for any NDSL borrower 
who, although not graduating, will not be 
returning for the Fall 1981 Semester. The inter­
views will last approxiamatley five minutes and 
will be scheduled as follows.
Cashier’s Office, Warner Hall Concourse, 
Monday-Thrusday 9 a.m. to 4 p.m.
If unable to attend of for more information call 
Mr. Rapin, 578-2094 or come to the Cashier’s 
Office, Warner Hall Concourse.
Seniors: packets containing information on com- 
mencemnt including five invitations will be 
available in your department offices during the 
week of April 27
John P. Credne, Dean of the College of Humani­
ties and Sexrial Sciences will have open office 
hours for students, Tuesdays from 1:30-3:30.
The Student Senate meets in the Wherrett Room
at 6:30 p.m. every Tuesday night.
general
Dr. Emmanual Donchin of the University of Illi­
nois will delive*r the final lecture in the Psychol­
ogy Symposium series. His lecture, 
“Psychological Explorations of Cognition: The 
P300 Component, Categorizations, and Sur­
prise*”, will be given Thursday, April 30 at 3:30 
p.m. in 340-A Baker Hall.
Soul talks-Monday nights, 9 p.m. Skibo Hall, 
room 13. A scriptural look at today’s common 
problems, immorality, faith, freedom, safety, 
homosexuality, obedience, etc. What does God 
require for you in these areas? Sponsor — Church 
erf Christ, 361-5632.
There will be a meeting erf the Health Professions 
Programs, Wed. April 29, 1981, at 7:00 PM in 
Skibo Rm.45. This will be the final meeting and 
officers for the next season will be elected. Also, 
seniors who have gone through the process of 
applying for Medical School, Dental School and 
,Optometry School will discuss their experiences.
Below is a list of student representation on university committees. Several of these 
committees show one or more vacancies in the coming school year. In addition, vacan­
cies arise in the middle of a semester. If you are interested in serving on a university 
committee, fill out the form on page 15 and return to Nancy Marx, Office of Student 
Affairs, Warner Hall 206.
CIT
Elizabeth Duggin 
Dave Dzombak 
Elise Fogel 
- Neil Yosinsky
Trustee Committee
Student Affairs
Joyce Brandon 
Patrida Bruckman 
William Clouse 
Keith Recker
Educational Affairs
Douglas Camey 
Laurie Elm 
Cherie Hexlge
Buildings and Grounds
James Balsom 
Mindie Jo Snyder
Development
Cynthia Barr 
Charles M. Page
Alumni Affairs
Lynne Koupal 
Jeffry Pitchford
Finance
Kenneth Boyd 
Dorothy Hess
Faculty Senate Committees
Student Affairs
Joyce Brandon 
Patricia Bruckman 
William Clouse 
Keith Recker
Academic Affairs
Douglas Camey 
Laurie Elm 
Cherie HodgeCollege Councils
HfcSS
James Balsom 
Dana Dunn
MCS
Elizabeth Hardint 
Melvin Zussman
CFA
no student repUniversityCommittees
Committee for Capital 
Planning for the 
Handicapped
Linda Dickerson 
1 space open
Security Policy 
Committee
Steve Smith 
continued on page 15
30 YEARS MO. WE 
PIONEERED LOW FARES 
TO EUROPE. TODAY WE’RE STILL AT IT.
$1
ONEWAY. STANDBYNY 10 LUXEMBOURG
Luxembourg to New York return ticket, with confirmed 
reservation: $249.50 (ft normal round trip fare) when 
purchased with standby fare. Free wine with dinner, cognac 
after. Prices effective through May 14,1981, subject to change 
and government approval. Purchase tickets in the U.S.A.
Li your travel agent or call Icetandair. In New York .City 757*8585; elsewhere can 800-555-1212 for the toll fro# number m your area.
ICELANDAIR
NOW MORE THAN EVER YOUR BEST VALUE TO EUROPE
Peace Corps and VISTA VolunteersFor information contact a recruiter, Mon.- Fri., 9-5pm: U.S.Customs House, Rm. 102A, 2nd r Chestnut St., Philadelphia, PA 19196 Toll free 800-462-1589 Ext. 66

---------------------------------------------------

Events.
a.b.
May 1
Friday Films
Xanadu, starring Gene Kelly and Olivia 
Newton-John. It is a story of love lost..., then 
found, of dreams coming true. Music by ELO. 6, 
8, 10 and 12 in DH 2210. $1 with CMU ID.
May 2
A.B. Coffeehouse
Helen Hudson will play folk music in the Wher- 
rett Room at 9 p.m. Ventriloquist Scott Rose will
open.
May 3
Sunday Afternoon at the Movies 
Goodbye Mr. Chips, starring Robert Doant and 
Greer Garson. The original version of James 
Hilton’s famous novel about an English school 
master. Mr. Chips himself is a compendium of 
memories, and Doant gives the role ideal treat­
ment in his superb Oscar-winning performance.
2 p.m. in Doherty Hall 2210. $1 with CMU ID.
filmSDC Film Series
May 2
Every Which Way But Loose, starring Clint
Eastwood and Clyde the Orangatang. 6,8,10 and
12 in DH 2210. $.75 with CMU ID.
Pittsburgh Playhouse Film Repertory
April 28
Star Trek, featuring the original cast from the 
popular televsion series; William Shatner, Leo­
nard Nimoy and Defonest Kelly. Also starring 
Persis Khambatta and Steven Collins. 7:30 and 
9:50
April 29
A Brief Vacation (Italian) 7:30 and 9:30 
April 30
Annie Hall, winner of Academy Award for Best 
Picture, Actress (Diane Keaton) and Writing 
(Woody Allen and Marshal Brickman). Also star­
ring Allen and Tony Roberts. 7:30 and 9:30
May 1
Carney, starring Gay Busey, Robbie Robertson 
and Jodie Foster. 7:30, 9:30 and 11:30
may 2
Being There, starring Peter Sellers, Melvyn Dou­
glas (Academy Award) and Shirley MacLaine. 
7:30, 9:45 and 11:50
May 3
Go West, starring the Marx Brothers. 7:30 and 
9:40
May 4
Pride and Prejudice, starring Laurence Olivier 
and Maureen O’Sullivan. 7:30 and 9:30
Through May 10 Christopher Watts (pnnts, 
drawings and paintings) Gallery D.
Through May 31 Daumier: Parisian Char­
acters. Gallery 10artHunt Institute
9 a.m. to 5 p.m. in the Penthouse of Hunt Library 
on the campus of Camegie-Mellon University.
»
Through June 5~“Nosegavs and Bouquets: 
Flower and Fruit Arrangements in Western Art”, 
spanning four centuries.
Through June 5-Color pencil drawings of Bris- 
decone Pines by California artist-illustrator 
Delia Taylor Hoss.
Miscellany
Through April 30 “Please Touch”, an exhibit 
for the blind and sighted by CMU architecture 
student Stuart Suna. The work in this show is in 
sculpture in bronze and marble, at the Pittsburgh 
Blind Association, 300 N. Craig St 8:30 a.m. to 5 
p.m.Carnegie Museum
Through May 24 In China: Photographs Dy 
Eve Arnold, Gallery A.
theatre
Through June 7
Two Gentlemen of Verona
The Pittsburgh Public Theatre’s fifth produc­
tion of the season will bring Shakespeare’s 
comedy in the style of the roaring ’20s. 323-1900 
for ticket information.
Through May 2 
Poe
The world premiere of a play by CMU grad­
uate Michael Cook. Presented by the Pitts­
burgh Metropolitan Stage Company at the 
Pittsburgh Center for the Arts (Fifth and 
Shady Thursday and Friday at 8
p.m. and Saturday at 7 and 9 p.m. 683-3993 
for reservations. Admission is by donation.
April 16 through May 10 
Justine
Pittsburgh Laboratory Theatre’s production of 
Leon Katz’s adaptation of Marquis De Sade’s 
novel. Thursday through Sunday at 8 p.m. and 
Sunday at 2:30. At the Pittsburgh Laboratory 
Theatre Company, 420 N. Craig St. 621-2876 for 
reservations and further information.
continued from page 14 
Design Committee
Mindie Jo Snyder 
1 space open
President’s Student 
Advisory Committee
George Gray III 
Mark Bodnar 
Bob Dudas 
Richard Gorelick 
Rusty Gray 
Lauren Fink 
Bob Holste 
Tom Joseph
John KoslowKevin Kelly
Mark MarsellaJames Patterson
Matt MathisConstance Smith
James PattersonBertha Talton
Steve SmithL. Vernon Valentine
President’s MinorityAnthony Maddox
Student AdvisoryAnthony McBride
Committee
Yvonne AlstonAuxiliary Services 
CommitteeJoyce Brandon
Eric ButlerBeing Formed
Eric Cheek2 SDC rep
Janice Davie2 UFO rep.
Monica Farrell2 Senate rep
Wayne Jackson1 GSO rep
Physical Plant Director’s 
Student Advisory 
Committee
Being Formed
Computation Center 
Policy Committee
2 openings 
1 undergraduate 
1 graduate
Athletic Council
4 openings
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
Name
Address and Phone
Choice of three Committees
Department and year
return to Nancy Marx, 206 Baker Hall
-NEW
"Do-it-yourself”Copjra one-hour cassette in less than 2 minutes.
Make a Copy of your Favorite
Cassette For Only 999
‘Price includes the copy cassette and the 
Copying Service! Guaranteed perfect monaural 
copies, every time.
What can you copy?
The potential uses for cassette copies are endless. Here are just a few of the 
most common applications: lectures, seminars, language labs, meetings, 
college classes, sermons, sales messages, weddings, interviews, talking 
letters, family events, relaxations, exercises, word-processing data, and 
computer programs.
This coupon is redeemable for one (1) cassette copy of your original cassette for only 99c. 
Any additional copies of your original cassette are at the prices below. Simply bring your 
original cassette and this coupon with you. The copy cassette and the copying service are 
included in one price.
Your Original 
Cassetto Length
30 minute 
60 minute 
90 minute 
120 minute
tegular Price 
Per Copy
$2.19
$2.89
$3.79
$4.79
High- 
Copying Time
1 minute
2 minutes
3 minutes
4 minutes
BeZDLNDCASSETTE COPYING CENTERS
Retailer Redemption Procedure When cashing this coupon, 
pleas# circle the copy cassette size and initial it at the time of 
purchose. Then anytime after the date of this promotion, send 
us your coupons ea" redemption We will reploce eoch coupon 
with a fresh cassette and invoice you at seventy cents ($ 70) 
*och regardless of cassette size Send to 140'B West River 
»ood North, Mpls MN 55411
This Coupon Expires 4/30/81
Available Exclusively at:
CMU Bookstore
Public Service Announcement
Agenda
Here is the agenda for tonights Senate meeting. If you see something 
of interest of if you would just like to bring something to the attention of 
your Student Senate, please feel free to stop by and voice your opinion at the 
Senate meeting.
I. Call to Order at 6:30 p.m. in the Wherrett Room
II. Call of the Roll
III. Approval of the Minutes
IV. Audience Participation
V. Officer’s Reports
Dean Swank-Administration
Bob Holste-Student Senate Chairman
Steve Smith-President
Mark Marsella-SDC
Matt Mathis--GSO
Ron Clelland-UFO
VI. Committee ReportsRules—The two constitutional amendments that were introduced 
last week will be voted on.Academic Affairs—General Announcements General Campus and Information—General Announcements Finance-Funding for the Commuter and Off-Campus 
organization
VII. Old Business
VIII.New Business
A resolution by Andy Stahl that advocates borrowing against the 
endowment for capital improvements to the Housing system.
IX. General Discussion
X. Announcements
XI. Adjournment
Public Service Announcement

---------------------------------------------------

Page 16—The Tartan—April 28, 1981
Baseball team edging to beat early season slump
by Mike Seel
After opening its season with disappoint­
ing losses to Community College (South), 
St. Vincent, Penn State (New Kensington) 
and the University of Pittsburgh, the CMU 
Baseball Tartans picked up their first victory 
at the expense of Beaver Community Col­
lege in the first game of a doubleheader on 
April 21. A strong pitching performance by 
freshman Bob Flaherty was backed by a 
diversified hitting attack led by Mike and 
Max Homer, who were a combined 6 for 6. 
Max got the Tartans on the board in the first 
inning, tagging a fastball deep into left cen­
ter field for his first home run of the season. 
Several Tartans joined the hit parade lead­
ing to a final score of 13-3.
In the night cap, the Tartans could not 
hold an early lead and dropped the game by 
a final score of 8-7.
The next day, the Tartans matched up 
with Division I, Eastern Eight leaders Pitt 
for the second time in ^ week. Pitt again 
escaped with the doubleheader victory by 
scores of 8-7 and 5-2, but the Tartans played 
very well.
Coach Bill Allen has been disappointed 
with his team’s early showing and has been 
shifting players around and shaking up his 
lineup in an effort to snap the Tartans out of 
their slump. Throughout it all, though, he
remains optimistic as sixteen games remain 
and there is plenty of time for the Tartans to 
recover and post their second consecutive 
season over the .500 mark. The reasons for 
his optimism are clear—returning senior star­
ters. Outfielder Jim Pepka and shortstop 
Tim Perrott, along with pitcher Jamie Pat- 
tison, are hungry to make their last season 
their best. The Homer brothers, junior cen- 
terfielder Max and sophomore third base­
man Mike, figure only to improve their 
outstanding statistics of last season. Max led 
the team in hitting with a .395 average and 
Mike was third at .352. Junior starters Brett 
Pouchione, Mark Rubai and Bemie Law­
rence are all returning; and sophomores
VVally Weber, Dan Fry, Bucko Rossi, Mike 
Seel, Joe Schwab and Ed Novak figure 
highly in Coach Allen’s future plans. Fresh­
men Tim Nagy and Nick Anderson have 
showed early promise and are among sev­
eral others trying to battle their way into a 
starting job.
Pitching remains a sore spot for the Tar­
tans and is currently their biggest nemesis. 
The addition of Mike Oxford and freshman 
Bob Flaherty to a stiff of Jamie Pattison, Ed 
Novak and Dan Pickerine can only help. 
Several other righthanders are struggling for 
regular pitching work. All in all, the Tar­
tans figure only to improve in the years to
come.
Why do outstanding 
systems programmers
work in Bellevue, WA?
Microsoft.
Microsoft develops 
the leading edge in micro­
computer systems soft­
ware. Our BASIC is world 
renowned. Our new 
XENIX* OS, the micro­
computer adaptation of 
the UNIX* OS, has com­
puter companies and 
others chomping at the 
bit. We design state of the 
art system software.
And, we need pro­
grammers to work on Data 
Base Systems, FORTRAN, 
BASIC, COBOL, Pascal,
C, Compilers, Graphics, 
Networks, and many other 
projects.
Our OEM customer 
base is a Who’s Who of the 
hardware business (Apple,
Radio Shack, Texas Instru­
ments, Intel, Tektronix).
As new hardware is devel­
oped (8086, Z8000,68000 
microprocessor systems), 
Microsoft’s programmers 
get their hands on the 
machines before they go 
into production. So your 
hardware suggestions and 
software innovations 
during R&D become part 
of the final product.
Microsoft provides the 
best systems program­
ming work environment:
¦ all the high-level 
hardware (DEC 2020 
and 11/70 develop­
ment systems) and 
software develop­
ment tools you’ll 
need, in a
¦ small company with 
lots of interaction and 
sharing of ideas and 
methods, where
¦ you can develop 
your full potential.
The Pacific Northwest is 
a great environment too:
¦ mountains, ocean, 
desert, rain forest, 
rivers and lakes all 
within easy reach.
¦ major cultural, sports, 
social, and commer­
cial activities in 
Seattle, just fifteen 
minutes away.
We are looking for 
outstanding systems pro­
grammers—those with 
intelligence, drive, and 
a commitment to excel­
lence. We want program-
mers who will advance . 
The Standard in micro­
computer software.
Applications may be 
made by resume, atten­
tion: Mr. Steve Ballmer, 
Assistant to the President.
*UNIX is a trademark of Bell Laboratories. 
XENIX is a trademark of Microsoft.
10800 NE Eighth, Suite 819 
Bellevue, WA 98004 
206-455-8080
We set the standard.

---------------------------------------------------



---------------------------------------------------

Page 18—The Tartan—April 28, 1981
Whips and Spurs: Son
A special ground display highlighted this year’s fireworks.
Images: 
some of the 
experiences 
at CMU’s 
Carnival *81Carlos Santana strains to audience thought that it was well worth the effort.
Senior Physics major Rob Rolleston takes on Victor, the Rasslin’ Bear. Not surprisingly, the 650 lb. bear won.Although the rain in Pittsbu cancel Sweepstakes.
photographs by:
Stacy Alembardo, Chuc; 
Chidekel, Doug Ellis, Rhodi 
Funk, Jenny Ladd, Rober 
Zusman, and Allan.
male heat during Carnival.on

---------------------------------------------------

he Texas Wanderers show their stuff.
April 28, 1981—The Tartan—Page 19
Olde Fashioned Fun
Mainly on the midway, enough of it fell on the buggy course to The booth-building business is hard work.
Bob Talda made a mighty effort but he didn’t win the pie-eating contest. The Phi Kaps have held that tide for two years now.

---------------------------------------------------

Page 20—The Tartan—April 28, 1981
Wild West & misc. madness
Sloppy Joe and Deveraux are caught in the midst of some Scottish silliness in the WRCT truck.
Sandy Angerman works on Chi O’s booth
Mac Picnic performs some of his magic,
Daring it to rain, this group of people watch the opening ceremonies.Ever seen a 50-gallon hat?
