the carnegi
TUESDAY, MARCH 25, 1947 
VOL. 40, NO. 20
CARNEGIE INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY, PITTSBURGH, PA
Dr. Webster Jones Clarifies 
Slimmer Semester Confusion
Dr. Webster N. Jones, director of the College of Engineering and 
Science, today announced “Every student in the College who is 
scheduled to continue classes through the summer and who does not 
thus continue to classes during the summer semester will have his 
permit to register for the fall semester withdrawn.
“Such withdrawal will place the student in exactly the same 
category as any transfer student applying for admission from an out­
side institution. The present schedules indicate that all classes are 
filled to the limit and that there are no vacancies for transfer stu­
dents next fall.”
Dr. Jones explained that fol­
lowing his announcement (Tar­
tan, March 11) to the effect that 
students in certain groups would 
be asked to continue classes 
through the summer, misunder­
standing has arisen on the part of 
many of the students concerned.
“This misunderstanding,” said 
Director Jones, “seems to consist 
in hope on the part of those stu­
dents asked to attend the sum­
mer semester that should they 
fail to attend, they may neverthe­
less come back to school next 
fall to resume classes where they 
left off in May. This is not the 
case, and it is very important for 
every student to realize this.”
Dr. Jones stated he had tried 
to make clear that Carnegie In­
stitute of Technology is making 
every effort to take care of a 
crushing enrollment by stretching 
facilities of the institution to the 
limit, and that the educational ef­
ficiency and welfare of Carnegie 
depends upon readjustment of the 
college program to the normal 
two-semester-per-year plan.
“For this reason,” said Dr.
Jones, “the College has rid choice 
but the action outlined above.”
To clear up another possible 
misunderstanding, it was pointed 
out that classes this summer are 
to be exactly similar to those giv­
en during the regular fall and 
spring semesters and will not be 
abbreviated in any way.
[Continued on page 6]
Passover
Temple Sinai is making 
provisions for a Passover Se­
der on Friday evening, April
4. The dinner and service will 
begin at 6:30 p. m. at the 
Church of the Redeemer, 
5700 Forbes Street.
All interested persons 
should call at Dean Yon’s of­
fice to sign up for reservations.
Cano Appears 
On March 31
The first issue of Cano, the new 
literary magazine, will be on sale 
at 11:30 Monday, March 31, in 
Skibo and the Faculty lounge. 
The 500 copies available to the 
student body will be sold for ten 
cents each.
The experience of the staff of 
the Carnegie Technical, which is 
sponsoring Cano, has been avail­
able in the publication of this first 
issue in bringing together much 
material of good quality and in 
rushing it successfully through 
the various stages of publication. 
Great Student Interest
The quality and the quantity of 
the contributions received in the 
month since Cano’s inception 
shows the great interest in cre­
ative and literary writing. The 
active concern of the student 
body, as shown by their questions 
and contributions, indicates that 
Cano is definitely filling a need on 
the campus and that it will have 
a large circulation among the stu­
dents of all colleges.
The first issue is being pub­
lished little more than a month 
after the formal announcement of 
Cano’s formation, in order that 
the publication schedule of two 
issues a semester can be met. The 
second issue will be on sale short­
ly before finals, sometime in May. 
Cano will have two issues each 
semester, except during the sum­
mer term, when there will proba­
bly be no more than one.
Diverse Contents
The contents of the first issue 
are very diverse in type and con­
tent, ranging from the cynical to 
the sentimental, from the sub­
jective to the realistic, from the 
impressionistic to the analytic. A 
few comments about some of the 
authors represented in the first 
issue are presented below as evi- 
[Continued on page 6]
Scholarships
Upperclassmen wishing to 
apply for scholarships for the 
, summer semester or for the 
academic year 1947-48 should 
file applications with Dean 
Dickinson, IH 152, by April 1.
Carnival Bands 
Big Mystery
Rumors are flying. The Tartan 
has been given official inside dope 
from no less than twenty-three 
operators who claimed to have 
infallible sources of information, 
but still only a half dozen close- ' 
mouthed committeemen actually 
know what bands will play at 
spring Carnival. Those are the 
boys who have seen the contracts.
Spring Carnival C h a i,r m a n 
Cloyd Mellott is not one to dis­
courage rumors. In fact he started 
most of them. But to confuse mat­
ters further he has announced that 
this Thursday night at 7:30, Sta­
tion WCIT will play a series of 
renditions, names and orchestras 
unannounced — two of which 
will be by the Carnival bands.
The first student who phones in 
the correct names of the orches­
tras and the pieces played will re­
ceive a free ticket to Spring Car­
nival. But no one will be certain 
which the bands are or who wins 
the free ticket until April 1, when 
the Tartan will break the com­
plete story.
Bill Leroy Plays 
For Dorm Dance
The annual Men’s Dormitory 
council dance will be held this 
Saturday evening from 9:00 till 
12:00 in the Urban room of the 
Hotel William Penn, with Bill Le- 
Roy’s band providing the music. 
In addition to the dancing in the 
Urban room, the social committee 
has also arranged to have the Sil­
ver room open for the serving of 
refreshments.
This informal dance is a closed 
affair for the men of the dormi­
tories and their dates, and since 
there will be no charge for the 
dance, a good turn-out is expected.
Glee Clubs Present Concert
The combined Men’s and Wom­
en’s Glee clubs will present their 
annual Spring Concert on Friday, 
March 28, at 8:15 p. m. in Car­
negie Music Hall. The price of 
tickets will be sixty cents.
The concert is under the direc­
tion of Mr. Paul Brautigam, who 
directs the Men’s Glee club, and 
Mrs. Harriet Kurtz, director of 
the Women’s Glee club. Imogene 
Grove is student director. Mr. 
Brautigam will conduct the songs 
of both clubs. These numbers 
will include: God is a Spirit, Go 
Down Moses, Glorias in Excelsis, 
The Year’s at the Spring, and also 
a group of school songs.
Mrs. Kurtz will lead the girls 
in the singing of How Greatly 
Thou Art Glorified, The Smiling 
Dawn, and The Lord is My Shep­
herd. The men’s group will give 
Serenade from “The Student 
Prince,” and Meadowlands, with 
a rendition of John Peel by the 
meii’s quartet. There will also be 
a violin solo by Jane Spotts, a 
freshman in the music depart^ 
meut,
Carnival Ticket $7.50; 
S&S Sells To Public
B-G-S Photo by Martin R. Gluck
Carnival Priqzs
For the bargain price of $7.50 
Omicron Delta Kappa, senior 
men’s honorary, is offering the 
student body an invitation to 
dance to the music of two big- 
name bands and take in one of 
the best of college musical revues 
in one glorious Spring Carnival 
celebration the first week in May.
Finally after several weeks of 
discussion, Spring Carnival com­
mittee and Scotch and Soda club 
have effected the financial merger 
which makes possible this low 
price.
Dick Heckman, ticket chairman 
of Spring Carnival, has announc­
ed that sales will start on April 
8, the day following Easter vaca­
tion. On purchase of the Carnival 
ticket the student will go to 
Scotch and Soda’s booth where he 
will get a choice of seats for Rock 
and Riot. The times and places 
will be immediately obvious from 
the advance publicity to be given 
to the sales.
There are exactly 1250 tickets 
for Spring Carnival, no more. It 
will be first come, first served. 
And those who do buy first will 
have first choice of seats for the 
Scotch and Soda Club production, 
Not that all the seats are not good, 
but Rock and Riot will be pre­
sented for students on two differ­
ent nights and many may have 
preference as to nights.
Fraternities and other student 
organizations of groups which 
wish to go to Rock and Riot as a 
body will be able to buy blocks 
of seats if they act soon enough.
ASEE Head Asks 
Five-Year Program
“A minimum of five years of 
college training will become a 
necessity for all engineers in the 
near future,” Prof. H. O. Croft, 
president of the American Society 
for Engineering Education, told a 
group of leading educators last 
week.
Prof. Croft, who is head of the 
department of mechanical engi­
neering at Iowa State college, 
spoke at a dinner meeting of the 
Society held last Friday evening 
in Thistle hall. The meeting 
brought to a close a three-day 
regional conference of the group, 
to which CIT was host.
“The tremendous increase in 
the amount of basic knowledge 
that an engineer must have at his 
fingertips means that more time 
must be spent in training. Today 
this means that more engineers 
must be encouraged to take post­
graduate work,” he said.
“Thousands of men with doc­
tor of philosophy degrees will be 
needed to lead an ever-increasing 
program of government and pri­
vately-sponsored research if our 
country is to keep pace with the 
rest of the world.” He cited the 
fact that Russia was spending 
ten times more for research than 
was spent in this country for the 
combined efforts of private, fed­
eral and state agencies.
The welcoming address for the 
conference was given by Dr. 
Doherty. Among the speakers from 
Carnegie were Dr. J. C. Warner, 
Dr. E. M. Williams, Dr. W. R. 
Work and Dr. D. F. Miner.
Dr. Herbert L. Spencer, presi­
dent of Bucknell university, and 
an alumnus of CIT, addressed 
the Friday meeting of the group.
S&S Prices
About six hundred reserved 
seats will be sold to students with­
out Spring Carnival tickets at a 
special flat rate of $1.50 plus tax 
per seat for the two student nights 
of Rock ’n’ Riot! on April 30 and 
May 1.
The remaining twenty-five hun­
dred seats on these two nights 
have been sold by Scotch and 
Soda to the Spring Carnival com­
mittee under a special arrange­
ment whereby the price of the 
S&S tickets will be included in 
the Spring Carnival charge. These 
seats will also be reserved, and 
will be divided equally between 
the two nights.
All tickets for the opening night 
of Rock ’n’ Riot! on Tuesday, 
April 29, will be sold to non-stu­
dents at $2.40, $2.00, and $1.90 
each, including tax. The audience 
on this night will consist mostly 
of alumni, faculty members, par­
ents and friends of students, and. 
for the first time in Scotch and 
Soda’s history, outsiders.
The student tickets for Rock ’n’ 
[Continued on page 6]
Activities Men 
May Apply For 
Class Honoraries
Scimitars and Delta Skull, men’s 
class activities honoraries, are 
making their annual call for mem­
bership. All those eligible and in­
terested are to ^secure application 
blanks in Dean Dickinson’s office, 
fill them out, and return them to 
his office by Monday, March 31, 
at 4:30.
Second semester freshmen and 
first semester sophomores are eli­
gible for Scimitars; second semes­
ter sophomores and first semester 
juniors are eligible for Delta 
Skull. Both honoraries require a 
minimum average factor of 2:00.
On the application blanks, stu­
dents are merely to list the activi­
ties for which they wish to re­
ceive points. The number of points 
to be awarded will be determined 
by the Men’s Points committee.
Technical On Sale 
April Fool's Day
The April issue of the Carnegie 
Technical will be placed on sale 
in Skibo and Industries hall on 
Tuesday and Wednesday, April 1 
and 2.
The feature of this month’s 
Technical is Herbert Herz’s ar­
ticle entitled “Rocket Propulsion.” 
Mr. Herz opens his article with a 
discussion of the history of rock­
ets from the ancient Chinese ar­
row to the military weapons of 
World War II. He then explains 
the theory and mechanics of the 
German V-2, which represents an 
almost unbelievable advance over 
the crudities of a decade ago. The 
article concludes with a serious 
examination of the possibilities of 
space flight and some of the prob­
lems involved in the breaching of 
this new frontier.
Of special interest to students 
of painting and design is the pa­
per on “Color Put to Work” by S. 
Ronald Hacker, a junior P&D. 
The author covers the important 
practical uses of color in industry 
and commerce, and emphasizes 
the fact that color not only has 
esthetic value but also has indus­
trial uses which can be translated 
into the dollar and cents terms of 
improved working conditions, su­
perior products, and increased 
overall efficiency.

---------------------------------------------------

2THE CARNEGIE TARTANTUESDAY, MARCH 25, 194r
«he carneipA^R.TAIN!
OFFICES: Carnegie Union, 5075 Forbes Street, Pittsburgh 13, Pa.
Telephone: SChenley 4557 
After office hours: Editor SC. 8951; Business Manager, EM. 9424
Publishes weekly during the school year, except holidays and examination periods, by the students of Carnegie Institute of Technology, Pittsburgh, Pa.
Asst. Business Managei .... Sam MosesAdvertising Manager.............Ed FriedmanCirculation Manager .......... Ivan FaigenHeadline Editor .. Camille McCulloughMake-up Assistant .......... Shirley SeinerAsst. Copy Editor .......... Bill McShaneColumnists ___ Jean Knee, Carl KlahrCopy Staff Dale Wright, Harry Silverman
Editor ............................ R. C. Eschenbach
Business Manager .................. Bill Meyers
Managing Editor .......... Audrey Wilkins
News Editor ........................ Tony ArrottPersonnel Manager .......... H. Aaronson
Copy Editor ............................ Bill CohenSports Editor ...................... Pete Cregut
Photographers: Danny Franks (head), Ames Penfield, Bill Benswanger.News Staff: Dons Becker, Bob Cook, Susan Foster, Estelle Mattes.Reporters: Bob Abelson, Fred Johnson, Sema Moskovitz Robert H Smith.Cub Reporters: Anr.ie Bricker, Viera Kulamer, Jeanne Fischman, Si Foner, Dorothy Gerken, Howard Kutner, Aaron Latkin, Bea Patterson, Ange Pollis, Marjorie 
Powers, Barry Rowles, Lois Sloan, Midge Teague.
Represented for national advertising by National Advertising, Inc. College Publishers 
Representatives, 420 Madison Ave., New York City. * * ,Entered as second class matter under the Act of March 3, 1879. Acceptance for mailing at special rate of postage provided for in the Act of February 28, 1925, 
authorized October 21, 1918.
Panhellenic Mess
During some three years of existence on this campus the Panhel­
lenic council has had ample time to set up a working rush system for 
sororities and hel]5 the comparatively new national fraternities to get 
a healthy start both individually and collectively.
As can readily be seen from recent squabbles between sororities 
about illegal rushing of freshman women, there is no true panhellenic 
spirit here and Panhellenic council doesn’t have the organization or the 
desire to foster it. Without this spirit of cooperation, the sororities 
will never be able to carry out their purpose on this campus.
Possible Solution
What then can be done about it? National Panhellenic Congress 
offers its aid for just such situations as this. They would be very 
willing to set up a workshop to give the local Panhellenic an efficient 
organization and the best rush system for this particular school.
Why blunder along with deferred rushing—deferred to the sopho­
more year at that? Carnegie Tech is one of the few exceptions to 
the general rule of rushing at the beginning of the freshman year. As 
a result sororities cut each other’s throats all year to impress the future 
rushees and try all sorts of furtive means to beat the game. Every ac­
tivity conducted during the year is carried on with one eye on the im­
pressionable freshmen.
Disadvantages of Sophomore Rushing
From the standpoint of sorority organization, sophomore rushing 
instead of freshman rushing means one less year in the sorority for 
its members and less opportunity to become fully acquainted with the 
workings, ideals, and potentialities of college fraternities.
The main argument against freshman rushing is that the rushees 
and sorority do not have enough time to become acquainted with 
each other before pledging. Yet under the present system the fresh­
men are kept at a safe distance by all sorts of ridiculous rules so, 
when rushing time does come around, the sororities still find them­
selves rushing girls they don’t know.
Freshman’s Point of View
From the freshman’s point of view, sophomore rushing means 
continual attention to sororities during freshman year so that mem­
bership in a sorority assumes greater importance than it merits. 
Under the other system, if a girl does not receive a bid at the begin-
[Continued on page 8]
Student Gratitude
That’s gratitude for you. Due to student complaints about the 
scarcity of tickets iovKing Lear, the Drama department very kindly 
agreed to put on an extra performance for students only. To date 
only about one hundred students have requested tickets, while some
400 tickets are available.
Let there be no screams of deprivation if students lack tickets 
for any future drama department productions. We feel that the stu­
dents have thrown av^'y the right to such consideration. All of which 
goes to prove Mr. A. rott’s statement that student interest does not 
merit any more tickets than the drama department provides.
We’re very disappointed at not receiving a letter from the Scotch 
and Soda board. Perhaps their silence substantiates the truth of our 
indictment. However, we did not wish to imply that the members 
do not have a worthy purpose in their insistence upon an adequate 
financial return, for they do. The aim is to present a bigger and better
Scotch and Soda show next year which will add luster to the name
“Carnegie Tech.”
R.C.E.
WCIT SCHEDULE - Week of March 18-25
Tim®Wed.Thurs.Fri.Mon.Tues.
7:30TheTheTheTheThea. m.MorningMorningMorningMorningMorningClambakeClambakeClambakeClambakeClambake
8:00SignSignSignSignSigna. m.OffOffOffOffOff
CampusCampusCampusCampusCampus7:00News andNews andNews andNews andNews andp. m.MusicMusicMusicMusicMusic
7:15The StoryHeddaCampusSportsTown andp. m.TellerHopelessMemoriesRoundupCampus
7:30News andCampusp. m.SpringDramaMusic--------CarnivalRoundProgramBandShowAdventures7:45ContestinTablep. m.Knowledge
8:00The ClassicThe ClassicThe ClassicThe Classicp. m.HourHourHourHourHour
9:00SignSignSignSignSignp. m.OffOffOffOffOff
ON THE CALENDAR
Tuesday, March 25
King Lear, students only, 8:30 
p.m., Little Theatre. 
Wednesday, March 26
IRC meeting, 4:30 p.m., IH 102. 
Teknon club, 6:00 p.m., Shady- 
side Presbyterian church. 
Thursday, March 27 
APO Meeting, 4:30 p.m., IH 
229B.
Friday, March 28
Glee Club concert, 8:15 p.m., 
Carnegie Music Hall. 
Saturday, March 29 
Men’s Dorm council dance, 9:00 
p.m., Urban room, William 
Penn.
Sunday, March 30 
Recital by music department 
professors, 8:30 p.m., Little 
Theatre.
Monday, March 31 
Cano on sale, 11:30 a.m., Skibo, 
faculty lounge.
Tuesday, April 1 •
Technical on sale 11:30 a. m., 
IH, Skibo
Candidates Vie 
For Regal Role
Spring is in the air. And so was 
the outcome of the all-school elec­
tion to pick the seven loveliest las­
sies ever to grace the- bonnie halls 
of Carnegie Tech.
The student body went to the 
polls this morning bewildered by 
the hectic week of furious cam­
paigning and tried to choose from 
the eighteen candidates seven to 
be honored at Spring Carnival 
time.
Posters, 50-foot banners, broad­
casts over P.A. systems, records 
in juke boxes, yard by yard pho­
tographs, skits put on in frater­
nity houses, and novelty perform­
ances in Skibo, all cried forth 
the merits of the potential tjueens. 
“A” Blonde is Natural
Some of the cleverest posters 
were those put up by Dorm men 
backing Joanne Hipp. The “Atom­
ic Blonde” they claimed was a 
“natural,” and with men who 
knew best it was “Hipp two to 
one.”
The perfume motif of the A. E. 
Phi’s posters was climaxed yes­
terday when Helen Miller in 
strapless evening gown and ac­
companied by Burt Quint in white 
tie and tails opened a tremendous 
cardboard perfume bottle and 
sprayed Skibo with tons of penny 
bubble gum.
Petriken is “Fairest Wheel”
“The fairest wheel of Spring 
Carnival” was the catchy phrase 
describing pretty Theta dramat 
Phyllis Petrikin. A large kite in 
Administration hall displayed pic­
tures of the Theta girls, Petriken, 
Maggie Harris, and Mary Jane 
Horridge.
The Chi O’s presented reams of 
stenciled posters complete with 
alluring photos of Marie Falken- 
hagen, Jane Grim, and Dotty Hal- 
las. The Tri Delts claimed “She 
checks with you,” and then pre­
sented June Hawks, wearing big 
checked hair ribbons.
Kappa’s Go Alliterative
The Kappa’s posters played on 
the natural alliteration of Mary 
Keefer’s, Betty Kane’s and Car­
oline Cook’s names with the 
phrase, “Kaptivating Keefer, 
Kane, and Kooky.” They carried 
it further when they passed out 
“Reefers from Keefer,” “Cookies 
from Cookie,” and “Kandy Kanes 
from Kane.”
Dummies hanging from the Ski­
bo ceiling warned men never to 
“underestimate the power of pre­
war suspenders nor of women,” 
and also hinted that it might be a 
good idea to vote for the D.G. girls 
Ardy Shaffer, Dell Miller, and Lou 
Emmel. The inference from the 
massive sugar bowl, spice cage, 
and fur-jewelry box was that the
D. G. girls were sugar and spice 
and everything nice.
Notice
Stories for the April Fool’s 
issue are to be turned in at 
the general staff meeting 4:30 
Wednesday In the TARTAN office,
The Passing Parade
By Karl Klahr
If a man from Mars were to ing that they would soon be able
visit the earth he would be as- to buy at lower prices, refrained
tonished. At our one hundred- from striking. Production sky-
story skyscrapers? No. Mars, rocketed, and the country seemed-
whose force of gravity is less than headed towards a plateau of pros-
the earth’s, probably has a thou- perity, when suddenly enters the
sand-story skyscraper. At the villain,
atom bomb? Of course not! Would “Hub Germ”
a man whose breakfast porridge The “llub germ,” an imma-
is cooked on atomic stoves lighted terial vicious sprite, struck all at
by atomic matches think an once in a thousand places, prin-
atom bomb a novelty? cipally at business executives. The
At the nickel subway ride in acute amnesia which set in com-
New York? Maybe he would be pletely blanked many of our most
astonished at that. But most of all capable minds. Production mov-
he would be puzzled to find so ed up and up; but prices also
few psychiatrists in proportion to moved up, profits also moved
the general population. For at UP- ^ust last week Secretary of
present a very debilitating mental Commerce W. Averill Harriman
disease is prevalent, claiming its felt impelled to call upon busi-
victims by the score: loss of mem- ness men w^° could cut theirory prices, to do so for the general
Fxemtives Worst Sufferers good. But the malevolent llubVT Sufferers had forestalled him by af_
This dread scourge rs staking § with a drea(J
the nation at its heart; important effaces the mem0ry.
executives in business and mdus- pom,r»,ICciftn<;
try are the worst sufferers. For ^ should be thQUght that
example: A few months ago, you inc0nspicu0us a puzzle, whichwill recall these executives and M^rtian or Secret of
their stockholders were agitating Co*merce would notice, is devoid 
for better conditions Pull down repercussions for the man in
\ -Cf ingS; T +ey ¦+*+* vi the street. One man to whom the“Afraid of inflation? Just wait till H c of L seemed glaringly ob.
we hit our stride in production. vjous sent an unusual advertise-
Then will we cut our prices! All ment a newspaper. He
we ask is that you eliminate OPA adyertised for sale a human eye>
to give us a slight incentive. Also present repQsing -n ^ eye_
stop the strikes. Make labor quit soc^et Qf the advertiser, in good 
asking higher wages, and then condition. questioned he
watch prices drop. gaid he wanted to keep his six
Requests Granted by Truman children off the streets.
That sounded like reasonable Even to th0se of us who don’t
talk so, a few weeks before the f\nd it necessary to sell your eyes. 
November election, President Tru- the present era of high prices
man suddenly saw the light. OPA can be vital. High prices mean
ceilings, came down like a house fewer buyers. Fewer buyers mean 
of cards, labor was scared into less production. Less production
a quiescent attitude, and the NAM means unemployment. Unemploy-
lobbyists chortled in glee. ment means depression. Depres-
True to their promise, the now- sion means rearming to create em- 
afflicted business men set out to ployment. Rearming means war. 
lower prices. They worked like On recommendation of the
beavers, expanding production. Martian I propose an all-out war
Labor unions, implicitly heliev- against the “llub germ.”
Student Council...
March 19, 1947 and the Scotch and Soda ciub had 
The meeting was called to order come to an agreement whereby 
at 4:40 p. m. the price of the Carnival ticket
Those absent were: Misses will be $7.50, which will include
Cook, Emmel, Hallas, Knee, Ollett, the Scotch and Soda production, 
and Petrikin; Messrs. Christen- Mr. Yorkin moved that we table
son, Benya, Kindi, Kohn, Me- the proposed amendment to the 
Intire, Naylor, and Tritle. Student Council Constitution for
COMMITTEE REPORTS: action at the next meeting.
Social Committee: Motion carried.
Miss Lisle moved that the Delta Mr. Garner appointed Mr.
Upsilon fraternity be permitted to Clover to write a letter to Dr.
hold an invitation dance, April Doherty from Student Council 
12, off campus. asking if it would be possible to
Motion carried. turn the funds from one student
Budget Committee: dance over to the Steffen Memo-
Mr. Dismukes moved that we rial Fund,
permit O. D. K. to make the re- NEW BUSINESS:
quested change in the Spring Car- Mr. Farrahy suggested that a
nival budget. recommendation be sent to the
Motion carried. Thistle recommending that the
Mr. Dismukes moved that we graduates of September 1947 be 
approve the budget from Scotch included in the 1947 issue of the 
and Soda. Thistle. Mr. Cantini will submit
Motion carried. this recommendation to the staff
Publications Committee: of the Thistle.
Mr. Cantini moved that the fol- Mr. Cantini asked if something
lowing names be approved for the could be done about the traffic
staff of the Carnegie Technical: light at Forbes and Morewood—
Editor-in-Chief........Robert Siegel the light does not stay green long
Business manager.. Milton Perloff enough for safe passage across 
Managing editor.Walter Ambrose the street.
Features editor..........John Bolton Mr. Nutter mentioned that cars
Local Advertising manager ... are driving entirely too fast down
................................. David Mintz Margaret Morrison street.
Circulation manager................... Mr. Garner appointed Mr. Can-
........................... William Cohen tini as a committee to talk to Dr.
Art editor..........Philip Pearlstein Warden concerning this problem.
Layout editor.. .Graham Renberg Mr. Clover moved that a com-
Flexible Copy editor ................. mittee be appointed to investigate
..................... Marvin Gustavson ways by which Student Council
Fixed Copy editor....................... can assume the authority which
....................... Philip Bimbaum it held before the war.
Motion carried. Motion carried.
Election Committee: Mr. Garner appointed the fol-
Mr. Lee moved that Mr. Far- lowing committee: 
rahy’s motion concerning a new Mr. Clover Mr. O’Hare 
method for counting ballots of Mr. Sherman Mr. Marshall 
Student Council elections be Mr. Lee asked for ten volun-
dropped for the time being. teers to serve on the Spring Car-
Motion carried. nival Queen polls on Tuesday,
OLD BUSINESS: March 25.
Mr. Garner reported that after The meeting adjourned at 5:30
the discussion that took place in p. m,
the Council at the last meeting, Jean Marie Price,
the Spring Carnival committee Secretary,

---------------------------------------------------

TUESDAY, MARCH 25, 1947THE CARNEGIE TARTAN3
Eta Kappa Nu Holds Initiation; 
Scarab Elects New Officers
/¡Eta Kappa Nuj Eta Kappa Nu will hold its in- 
“ itiation banquet on April 15 at 
7:00 p. m. in the Hotel Webster 
Hall. Dr. Miner will be master of 
ceremonies and Dr. Creutz will be 
the principal speaker of the eve­
ning. His subject will be “The Cy­
clotron.”
In addition to the present ac­
tive members and new pledges, 
the alumni from Pittsburgh are 
invited in expectation of reac­
tivating the alumni of the chapter.
The new pledges to be initiated 
are: Robert G. Tuomola, Theodore 
J. Giza, James P. Woodford, War­
ren R. Crites, Joseph R. Stewart, 
Francis R. Janoski, Stuart F. 
Moore, William F. McCullough, 
Dale A. Wright, Clem S. Mc- 
Known, William H. Fry, Arthur 
F. Naylor, John McDowell, 
Michael Gittens, and Edward 
Mutschler.
Scarab
Loren C. Smith, architectural 
sub-senior, was elected president 
of the Philae Temple of Scarab 
for the coming year during the 
regular meeting last week.
Other newly elected officers of 
this national architectural honor­
ary society, are L. F. Valentour, 
vice president; Jack Kelly, secre­
tary; Ed Bailey, treasurer; and 
Derek Martin, sergeant-at-arms.
Since the Temple’s reorganiza­
tion last fall, the local unit has 
become an active campus outfit, 
and the new officers are already 
charting a course of activities to 
make the organization even more 
worthwhile during the coming 
year.
Citcom Clan
Citcom clan held their annual 
streetcar party Friday, March 21. 
The chartered trolley stopped at 
the campus pharmacy at 8:30 p.m., 
and the commuters embarked, 
with a few press photographers 
following close behind them.
“Ye Olde Music Box,” a wind­
up phonograph, furnished the 
music for dancing. Games and 
songs kept some couples interest­
ed while other gathered at the 
center doors to hold a general 
session. Social Chairman John 
Ewart solved the problem of the 
missing bottle opener when the 
car reached Squirrel Hill.
To his surprise, Herb Weiss 
spent most of the evening with a 
P.U.C. sign tacked to his coat 
which prohibited conversation 
with the conductor. Meanwhile, 
Sam West managed to demon-
Exhibit Illustrates 
Industrial Art
A great deal has been said 
about the influence of art on in­
dustry, but very few comment 
on the influence of industry on 
art.
In an exhibition of the abstract 
group at the Arts and Crafts cen­
ter are several works which show 
how industry has invaded the 
artist’s . “Ivory Tower.” These 
works are a framed “construction” 
in aluminum and plywood by 
Robert Lepper, association profes­
sor of design here, and two card­
board “sketches” for execution in 
sheet metal or plastic by two of 
Professor Lepper’s students.
The works are built of the ma­
terials which make Pittsburgh the 
industrial center of America — 
metals, glass, and plastics—ma­
terials as native to a Pittsburgher 
tor of the Renaissance. When em­
ployed by the artist, the beauty of 
their shape and flow in light and 
shadow comes out fully.
Throughout the history of in­
dustrial design, experimentation 
as Italian marble was to a sculp- 
of this sort has been a major 
source of shape development in 
the design of manufactured goods.
The exhibition opened March 
8, and will continue until March 
30. The Arts and Crafts center 
is open from 2:00 until 10:00 on 
Saturday and Sunday.
strate the skill which a commuter 
can acquire in snatching the only 
empty seat.
With two large banners, the trol­
ley passed through Wilkinsburg, 
East Pittsburgh, Braddock, Du- 
quesne, McKeesport, Dravos- 
burg, Hays, and the Triangle.
The streetcar party was initiat­
ed by Citcom clan before the war 
as an annual event. Since most of 
the commuters use the trolley 
every day, it has become a tradi­
tion, if not a symbol, of Citcom 
clan. It seems only fitting to hold 
one event every year on a street­
car, which the commuter has 
learned to know so well.
APO
Alpha Phi Omega elected offi­
cers for the 1947-48 school year 
at a dinner meeting held last 
Thursday night in the Union.
Peter Bertelson was elected 
president, Ted Dibble vice-presi­
dent, Dave Wallace treasurer, Mil­
ton Hobbs secretary, Howard 
Morrisson alumni secretary, and 
Dick Herrman historian.
The agenda of the meeting also 
included a report by the delegates 
who attended the fraternity’s na­
tional convention in Kansas City 
last December.
Scimitar
Scimitar, men’s sophomore class 
honorary, held a meeting on Tues­
day, March 25, in the Union. Dis­
cussion about application for mem­
bership in Scimitar took place, 
and arrangements for Call Day 
were made. The present pledge 
class of nine is expected to be in­
itiated within a few weeks.
WCIT Announces 
Contest Answer
The winning answer to the first 
of the new series of WCIT’s Jazz 
Program contests is “Louie Arm­
strong in a solo in I Wonder.” 
The name of the lucky recipient 
of the prize record will be an­
nounced on this Wednesday’s 
program. Ash Etkas, contest 
judge, reminds Skibos that non­
technical answers are preferred.
Are you overheated? Is your 
textbook dripping with perspira­
tion? The only feasible way to 
get cool is to hear WCIT’s new 
chiller, The Story Teller, sched­
uled for Wednesday at 7:45. This 
new and different feature prom­
ises to excite even the most stolid 
Techites.
This new show is only one of 
three to be launched this week by 
a radio station which seems to be 
growing faster than a germ cul­
ture at the “Greek’s.” The otherç 
are Jacqueline Alexander’s spe­
cial Town and Campus and the 
Adventures in Knowledge, a series 
of excellent dissertations on the 
various phases of cultural educa­
tion, presented by the social sci­
ence department faculty. The 
latter series, which attempts to 
emphasize the ramifications of the 
social sciences, was well recom­
mended by its preview auditors.
This week’s Campus Roundtable 
will discuss “Is the Activity Point 
Award System Equitable?” Mary 
Jane Horridge, Les Engle, Marty 
Dorff, Richard Drisko, and Au­
gust Binder will be members of 
the panel.
Student Council
All Student Council members 
are requested to be present at the 
meeting on Wednesday at 4:30. 
Action on an important amend­
ment to the Council Constitution 
is to be taken at that time and 
the presence of all members is 
desired.
Music Dept. 
Gives Requiem
As its contribution to the Easter 
holiday, the music department 
will present Mozart’s Requiem 
Mass on Wednesday, April 2, at 
8:15 p.m., in Carnegie Music Hall. 
The work was performed during 
Easter last year and is being giv­
en again in deference to the many 
requests for a repeat perform­
ance.
The soloists will be Dorothy 
Hallas, soprano; Charlotte Wise, 
alto; Charles Tritle, tenor; and 
John Yard, bass. Theodore Ripper 
will be at the organ, and the en­
tire ensemble of soloists, chorus, 
and orchestra will be directed by 
Dr. Frederick Dorian.
The Requiem Mass, Mozart’s 
last work, was commissioned by 
an elderly count. The ailing com­
poser was obsessed with the pre­
monition that it would be his own 
requiem and labored feverishly at 
it while on his deathbed. Death 
cut him off shortly before he fin­
ished, however, and the work was 
completed by a faithful pupil. The 
Requiem is regarded as one of 
the greatest pieces of liturgical 
music ever written.
Soapbox Questions 
Value of Radio
The question “Is Radio Doing a 
Good Job” will be discussed over 
the Soapbox of the Air on WWSW 
at 8:00 p. m., Tuesday, March 25, 
at the University club auditorium. 
This topic should be one of the 
most interesting in the series be­
cause of its universal appeal.
Carnegie represented by Kent 
neth D. MacDonald, senior in the 
printing department and ex-Navy 
pilot, and PCW, represented by 
Mary Alice Hoag, a senior major­
ing in speech, will take the affir­
mative. Joe Studenic, a freshman 
majoring in journalism, naviga­
tor on the aircraft carrier Shangri- 
La when it first went into action, • 
will take the negative side with 
Geanne Harney, a chemistry major 
from Mt. Mercy.
The audience must be seated 
by 7:45.
Pasoveor
Scotch and. Soda Sitati
and a dean 
shave!
GUARANTIED BT
THE MARLIN FIREARMS COMPANY
fiat 6w Slat» 1870 " *
THE CHURCH OF THE REDEEMER
(Episcopal)
5700 Forbes St., Pittsburgh, Pa.—Sunday Services
Holy Communion-8 A.M.; Morning Prayer-11 A.M.
CANTERBURY CLUB Luncheons as usual at Carnegie Inn 
every Thursday, 11:30—1:30.
REV. HUGH S. CLARK, Chaplain.
Highlights of the Week: The 
rehearsals for the singing and 
patter chorus are beginning to get 
under way, but the terpsichorean 
antics of Ruth Pivirotto’s dancers 
continue to be in the spot light. 
It. is amazing how P&D’s stack up 
the tempera and brushes, dramats 
put away the grease paint, Maggy 
Murphs dump the sociology books, 
and even the engineers discard 
their handbooks and slide rules to 
dance for Rock ’n’ Riot!
Jim Williamson, very tall, dark, 
and handsome, management en-
slide rule. Of course he claims he 
was just catching up on some 
homework, but she knows better. 
Rock ’n’ Rioters of the Week: 
There are a lot of people in 
Scotch and Soda who, behind the 
scenes, are quite indispensable. 
Irene Chotiner and Bill Voorhies,
Before ...
gineer Bill Ward, test tube maniac 
Don Rubenfield, and even a print­
er, Bob Baeuerlein, have been 
out practicing for weeks, and it 
took only a bit of coaxing on their 
part to tear Pat Ryan away from 
his homework. Now this fresh­
man metallurgist is the hotshot of 
the chorus. George Freeman is 
in a class by himself — he is so 
eager about Scotch and Soda that 
he has come out both for the 
dancing chorus and the publicity 
committee.
Jane Culp, Piv’s tap dancing 
assistant, gets a big kick out of 
“those engineers” and the way 
they learn their routine. She be­
lieves that they attack it like a 
difficult mathematical problem. 
They analyze everything step by 
,step, and once Jane caught one 
engineer figuring things out on a
. . . and After
for example, have been working 
deep into the night for several 
weeks, copying the orchestration 
of Kenny Welch’s and Champ 
Palmer’s music. There are about 
twenty musical numbers, and each 
has to be copied for every one 
of the twenty-eight orchestra 
members, the conductor and the 
singers.
Another irreplaceable member 
of Scotch and Soda is Dottie Dan­
ko, accompanist of the dancing 
and singing chorus. A native of 
a small town near Johnstown, 
Pa., she has been active in music 
for many years. In high school 
she was a member of a seven- 
piece student orchestra, and she 
has never stopped playing since 
then. In addition to her school 
work (of course she is a music 
major, in piano) she spends many 
hours a week pounding the keys 
for Rock ’n’ Riot!, and accom­
panies the modern dance classes 
at Pitt.
When the show opens on April 
tContinued on page 6]
¡¡WHETHER LION ot
ARROW has a sports shirt to cover all isothermic variations.
March can mean a good day for skiing at Dartmouth or 
Minnesota or a sunny round of golf at Georgia or U.CJL.A.
But whether it be stormy or torrid you can find a handsome 
Arrow sports shirt to keep you at just the right temperature.
Most Arrow sports shirts art washable, tool
ARROW SHIRTS and TIES
UNDERWEAR • HANDKERCHIEFS • SPORTS SHIRTS

---------------------------------------------------

4THE CARNEGIE TARTANTUESDAY, MARCk 25, 1947
The Sounding Board
Nick Reed and Bob JohnsonOn Fraternity Row
Seeking to examine those 
strange animals known as com­
muters, we last week cornered a 
quartet of them and proceeded to 
learn about the so-called com­
muter “problem.”
The four we gathered around a 
conference table in Skibo were 
Don Anderson who, as president 
of Citcom clan, heads the only 
recognized organization on cam­
pus devoted solely and exclusively 
to the commuting independent 
student, and three of his aides in 
the clan: Si Foner, Jack Ewart, 
and Ken Hall.
We wanted to find out just what 
Citcom is, what it’s doing, what 
it is going to do, and what it has 
to offer to students who are eligi­
ble for membership. Having pre­
viously inquired at the office of 
Registrar E. K. Collins, where 
we discovered that over half of 
the student body commutes daily 
between home and school, we de­
cided to check with the commuters 
themselves and see what they are 
doing to lick their common prob­
lems.
No one concerned with campus 
life can afford to dismiss the com­
muter lightly, for he is so much 
an intergral part of our student 
body that his attitude, degree of 
participation in school affairs, and 
general interest can be an im­
portant factor in determining the 
overall state of school spirit. 
Advantages of Clan Otulined
First of all we dug out the 
raison d’etre of the clan. It is to 
provide, for the commuting stu­
dent, an opportunity to enter in­
to campus life that he would oth­
erwise not enjoy.
Clan president Anderson out­
lined the advantages that it has 
to offer. “First, we sponsor social 
events about every two weeks. 
These give the commuter the feel­
ing that he isn’t completely left 
out of the whirl of campus life.
“Secondly, we provide a voice in 
campus politics for those stu­
dents who are not directly rep­
resented, although we haven’t 
tried to use this power recently, 
since we haven’t felt strongly 
enough about anything to use our 
strength in this respect. When a 
clan member runs for an office, 
however, he has the backing of 
the whole organization.
“Another opportunity we offer 
the commuter is that of making 
new friends on campus, for we 
know how difficult it is for one in 
his position to get to know people. 
And, last but not least, we 
sponsor intramural athletic teams, 
giving the otherwise non-af- 
filiated student a chance to take 
part in sports. Somewhere around 
the campus we have a collection 
of trophies that shows how strong 
__________
RODGER'S
DAIRY
Try Our
HAMBURGERS
Made with 100% Pure Beef 
U. S. Government Inspected
LARGE MILK SHAKES
MADE WITH PURE WHOLI 
MILK
RODGER'S
DAIRY STORES
3905 FORBES STREET 
Near Boquet
4619 CENTER AVENUE 
Near Craig
Other Stores Downtown
our teams were in the past.” 
Reveals Present Status
When asked about the present 
status of the clan he said, “We 
have three main problems right 
now. We need more members but 
we don’t have the money in our 
treasury to carry on a really con­
certed membership drive. And like 
every other organization on cam­
pus now we are having trouble 
with the lackadaisacal attitude of 
many students toward school ac­
tivities. So many of them are here 
just to get their degrees and have 
no interest in anything else.
“Our other big problem is that 
we have no regular meeting place 
on campus where our members 
can get together during their free 
time. What we need is a com­
bination lounge and study room 
that we can call our own and 
consider as our headquarters.” 
Seeking to Rebuild
Citcom is, like all other campus 
groups, still digging out from the 
war-induced lethargy that hit all 
activities, and most of its work 
at present is concentrated on lay­
ing plans for the future. The pres­
ent membership is about 125, 
which is only a small percentage 
of the estimated eighteen hundred 
wlho are eligible. ^Though the 
membership is small, however, it 
is tightly knit and the members 
are for the • most part satisfied 
with their present slow pace of 
expansion.
. Our Opinion: Citcom clan should 
and can become an integral part 
of the scene. It was once a proud 
and strong organization and it is 
in the best interest of every stu­
dent that it regain its former posi­
tion. But to do that two things 
must come to pass.
First, the present clan mem­
bership must realize that they are 
only between five and ten per cent 
of the eligible members and, if 
their organization is going to be 
an effective part of this college’s 
life, it must bring more students 
into the scope of its activities. 
They must realize that they are 
potentially the dominant factor in 
campus life, and that they have 
much to offer other commuting
The T.X.’s are wondering why 
town-man Elmer Kaelin has to 
spend so many nights at the 
chapter house.
John Wordeman has released 
his pin for active duty to Gay Wal­
lace.
The Kappas and the PiKA’s or­
ganized a T.G.I.F. (Thank God 
It’s Friday) club at their tea dance 
in the PiKA house on Friday aft­
ernoon.
Mr. and Mrs. Redd (Wayne 
and Lynda, that is) dropped in 
from Waynesburg to attend the 
Theta formal.
George Fortney with Sibyl God­
frey and A1 Fallows with Janie 
Lawton really appreciated those 
quiet open house parties at the 
PiKA house.
The Beta Sigs threw a beer 
party Friday night for the Phi 
Kaps. Gail Bank, who was bar­
tender for the evening, developed 
some powerful biceps keeping up 
the pressure in the barrels. Satur­
day night they had a “limehouse”
students. They must demonstrate 
plainly their vigorous leadership 
if they are to attract the hundreds 
of commuters who might join 
them if they would prove them­
selves an active, live-wire out­
fit, giving consideration to the 
welfare of all commuters.
Second, commuters who are not 
now members would do well to 
realize that this organization can 
do a great deal toward making 
their college years much more 
enjoyable and that Citcom is ask­
ing only for an opportunity to 
give them a hand.
EXPERT REPAIRS
RADIOS, PHONOGRAPHS, 
APPLIANCES
Sales and ServiceLEWIS RADIO 
ELECTRIC CO.
1123 OAKLAND AVE.HA. 4211
Bring Your Radio Problems 
To Us
22 TEARS EXPERIENCE 
At Your S*™*™
Qualify Cleaning - 3-Hour Service
WE OPERATE OUR OWN PLANT
Try Our Good Laundry Service
CAMPUS CLEANERS
4609 Forbes St.MUseum 1288
WE USE DUPONT CLEANING FLUID
— The POST-GAZETTE and WWSW
fi-rtsá * j1jntfy present
mm 
iif
TONIGHT:
“IS RADIO DOING 
A GOOD JOB?”
Participants:
Howard Dye, Tech 
Jeanne Harvey, Mt. Mercy 
Mary Alice Hoag, P.C.W. 
Joseph Ttupenic, Duquesne 
Moderator Dr. Gregg
Attend the broadcast tonight in the audi­torium of the University Club, Oakland. No admission charge. Doors close at 7:45!
dance, with lamp-posts, sidewalks 
and clothes to carry through the 
right atmosphere.
S. A. E. Pledge A1 Bessemer in­
troduced an old English custom 
last Saturday when he donned 
bathing trunks to wash walls.
Bill and Dottie Waller have 
been presented with a baby girl, 
Marion. Seven lbs., 13 ounces at 
that!
Several Kappa Sigs couples seen 
at the Theta formal Saturday 
night were New Teichman and 
Louise Koenig, Bill Beamer and 
Harriet Helmick, Bob Freese and 
Ann Richards, and Chicky Byrd 
and Mina Widdersheim.
All Kappa Sig music lovers 
visited the Mosque last Wednesday 
for the Spike Jones concert.
Jim Sunder seems to have miss­
ed his ride home Saturday night 
from Mt. Lebanon, Tails really 
aren’t the thing for packing truck 
rides are they, Jim?
The Sigma Nu’s held their an­
nual Easter Party at the Union 
last Saturday night. The even­
ing’s entertainment of dancing 
and egg-hunting was topped off 
by a sketch directed by the re­
nowned John (Dum ho) Childs, 
who was ably assisted by Lynn 
Morris and Ed Johnson.
Peter Dobrus, a Phi Kap of 
known physical strength, did not 
break “Brother” Tice in two for 
putting eraser crumbs in his pipe
tobacco (tobacco moochers take 
heed), but he is conducting bar­
bell classes for local shower room 
admirers.
Plump, young George Gregg 
now knows that there’s a limit to 
the amount of beer a person can 
consume.
Cherub-faced Jack South, the 
kind of a fellow who would put 
an ice cube down a girls back, 
did! That’s why his D. G. hostess, 
Betty Koester, was screaming so 
loudly in the Country Club 
Room.
Couples at the Beta’s house par­
ty Friday night included Dick 
Knapp and Joan Johnson, Jack 
Stewart and Cathy McClements, 
Ted Hill and Ann Alexander, and 
Tom Kelso and Evelyn Grimm. 
During the week pin banquets 
were held for Tony Chirico and 
Phil Petrikin, and John Bolton 
and Mary Lou MitchelL
During the week Betas Carlo 
Martino and Frank Lagueruela 
pinned Cathy Fischer (of P. C. 
W.) and Ginny Steinbach, re­
spectively.
The DU’s held initiation cere­
monies for thirteen men on March 
16. The new actives are Chuck 
Koester, Gerry Peck, Bill Koch, 
Bill Bourke, Bruce McMahon, G. 
I. Smith, Whitey Edemaf, Lee 
Wiley, Norm Franz, Barry Evans, 
John Kirkland, Dick Perron and 
[Continued on page 6]
The Spirit 
of Service
Telephone linemen braving blizzards to keep lines 
up and calls moving . . . telephone girls refusing to 
leave their switchboards even while floods mount and 
fires rage . . . former telephone employees coming back 
to work of their own accord to help out in a crisis . . . 
All this is a familiar story to the public.
To telephone people, it’s tradition.
It’s the spirit of service that makes telephone people think 
first and act first in the interests of the public.
It’s a devotion to duty that no thing and no one can 
possibly destroy.
It’s loyalty to a cause that is greater than those who teach 
it, those who learn it, those who feel it, and those who 
stand by it.
For telephone people, from fledglings to old timers, know 
what telephone service is and what it means and what 
it must continue to be.
They know that a single telephone call can be the dif­
ference between life and death, joy and sorrow, success 
and failure, victory and defeat.
They know that nothing must stop telephone calls from 
going through.
Nothing!
You count on telephone people. You always have. You 
always can.
They know their obligation. They live it. It’s a part of 
their very fibre. It’s second nature to them. It’s the thing 
that keeps telephone service going against any obstacles. 
It’s the thing that seems to produce miracles of service 
when miracles are needed.
It’s the thing that assures telephone service for the 
people of Pennsylvania . . . come what may.
The Bell Telephone Company 
of Pennsylvania

---------------------------------------------------

TUESDAY, MARCH 25, 1947THE CARNEGIE TARTAN5
FAYE
r /MK0DUe/Af6 ¿/VEIVCOAfftre 77/E ¦
XûûEO c/xewT—G¿/tMamo& (T( ar(­tn­
k RrOMG HER m¿¿? PdLÛMfNO—'FLASH'
STEADY, FLASH! DONT 
BE FRIGHTENED- k ATTA BOyi ,
EASY,
FLASH-
.EASY
READ HOW THE 
GLAMOROUS FAYE 
BLESING, NOTED 
TRICK-RIDING STAR 
OF THE RODEO, 
ROPED AND RODE 
HER WAY TO FAMETHE STORY BEGINS SEVERAL YEARS AGO ON THE COLORADO RANCH 
OF FAYE BLESING’S FATHER DURING A WILD-HORSE ROUNDUP...
R. J. Reynolds Tobacco Company, Winston-Salem, North Carolina
A CHAMPIONSHIP—A ¦ 
CONTRACT—THAT CALLS 
FOR SOMETHING- SPECIAL
THAT GROUND 
IS AWFUL SUCK- 
HEY. WATCH ITÎ
IMAGINE DOING THE 
RUSSIAN DRAG ON A 
v .WILD HORSE /
HE DtDNY THROW HER- 
L HE SUPPED ON A THAT WET GROUND
SURE,SHE$ TERRIFIC 
THAT GIRL HAS \ WHAT rr TAKES
DIDJA HEAR? NEW YORK AGENT 
OVER THERE WANTS TO SIGN FAYE UP FOR THE MADISON ^SQUARE GARDEN RODEO ^
WHATTA SPILL! 
TOLD YOU SO-YOU
Dr.Webster
I WILD HORSE I
A CAMEL 
ALWAYS HITS 
THE SPOT
r EXPERIENCE IS THE ^ 
BEST TEACHER IN RIDING 
..IN CIGARETTES TOO! I'VE 
TRIED THEM ALL-CAMELS 
SUIT ME 8EST!
SEVERAL MONTHS LAT£R— TH E EL PASO RODEOFA/ES PRACTICALLY UVED L. MIGHT MAKE A GOOD COW LOOK! FAYE ROPED ^[| WITH THAT CRITTER THESE A PONY, BUT SHE'LL NEVER 
THE WILD PALOMINO MU LAST WEEKS-HE’S A BEAUTY!JCALM HIM DOWN ENOUGH
____________________ __----------------1 TOR.TRICK RIDING
^EVERYCOWHANO IN :
VALLEY HAS BEEN TRYING j TO CATCH THAT FLASH OF UGHTNIM'
r SOMETHING 
SPECIAL TO ME 
RIGHT NOW WOULD 
. BE A CAMEL
YOUR “T-ZONE” 
WILL TELL YOU
FAYE BLESING has been 
a star of the rodeo for 5 
years. Her experience with 
various brands of cigarettes 
dates back to the war 
shortage —"That's when I 
smoked a different brand 
every day,” she recalls. 
"That's when I learned to 
w appreciate Camels.’*
T for Taste...
T for Throat..
that s your proving 
ground for any ciga­
rette. See if Camels 
don’t suit your 
“T-Zone” to a “T.”
Tech Sports Scope
By Pete
After a period of dormancy 
during the war years, the Steffens 
Fund will again be operating this 
year. This fund is composed of 
alumni contributions awarding 
several scholarships each year. 
The determining factors are the 
usual academic requirements, in 
addition to something more than a 
flair for the games of football or 
basketball.
During the years in which the 
Tartans were in the middle of the 
fight for national honors, this same 
Steffens fund was the driving 
force behind those great teams. 
The contributions were big and 
fat and football players came in 
droves.
The reason for the change is 
twofold. In a school of this type 
where studies are primary and a 
time-consuming task, school spirit 
is very nearly non-existent. If this 
is true during the undergraduate 
years, after graduation any incen­
tive that might have been present 
is quickly dissipated and alumni 
organizations become even more 
loosely knit than those formed 
during the school days.
In addition to this, the old time­
worn adage that all the world 
loves a winner and does not care 
much for the loser, plays an im­
portant part. The person that is 
interested in athletics, but not in 
those of his alma mater in partic­
ular, tends to find himself another 
team to follow when those of said 
alma mater find the victory trail 
overgrown and full of pitfalls.
However, this whole picture 
can change entirely when the 
teams start winning. A person 
who was hesitant to admit that 
his team has taken a hell of a 
shellacking will be the first one 
to let the world know that they 
have won. And this is not far re­
moved from being willing to kick 
in a couple of bucks for scholar­
ships to keep them winning.
Following this line of reasoning, 
then, it would seem that the best 
thing that could be done now 
would be to win a few ball 
games. Coach Donahoe has esti­
mated that the Steffens Fund will
Cregut
be capable of presenting four 
scholarships for the coming year. 
This is a start, but by no means 
enough. It is now up to us, the 
students, to furnish enough more 
to get Bill Donohue the additional 
ball players he will need to make 
the Tartans a standout even in the 
deflated competition we will face 
next year.
A small contribution may prove 
to be quite a sound investment. If 
for no other reason, it will cer­
tainly be worth while if we can go 
out to Forbes Field next year and 
see a contest instead of the fiascos 
we were spectators to last year. 
Intramural Mixup
The plans that Mr. Moses are 
considering for the coming soft­
ball season leave, to say the least, 
something to be desired. As things 
now stand, the plan is for an elim­
ination tournament set up in such 
a way that any team that loses 
two games is automatically elim­
inated and plays no more games. 
Winning is important, but the. op­
portunity to get out and play in 
an organized game is even more 
important.
The reason for this type of tour­
nament is a lack of time. Mr. 
Moses feels that by starting on the 
second week of April with three 
eight-team leagues, there will not 
be enough time to finish the 
schedule. This is true, but why 
must he have eight team leagues? 
We have had 24 teams entered in 
both the basketball and bowling 
leagues, but in both instances the 
teams have been composed of a 
minimum of five men. With ten 
men required for softball, the fra­
ternity “B” teams can be elim­
inated without cutting too many 
men out of the opportunity to 
play.
Under this plan, the whole thing 
could be cut down to three leagues 
of six teams. This would neces­
sitate the playing of 45 games 
which, if three fields are availa­
ble, would consume three weeks. 
Another week for the playoffs 
and rained-put games and the 
whole thing would fit in before 
exams. It could be done!
S.A.E. s Open Floor Playoff;
IET THIS WPPEN Al»|N r J \nu-!//, National League Still In Doubt
Tonight at 7:30 on the varsity court the S.A.E.’s, American League 
champs, will meet the Federal League winner in the opening game of 
the basketball playoff.
The S.A.E. cagers captured the league crown last week, de­
feating the Emanons 46-38 in the final game of the season. In closing 
the season victoriously the SA.S.’s garnered an impressive record of 
seven victories against no defeats.
As things stand as the paper goes to press, the winners in the 
Federal and National League are still to be decided.
Kappa Sigs In Playoff
In the National League the Kappa Sigs were forced into a play­
off when they were upset last week by Kilroy 28-22. As a result, on 
Wednesday night, they will play the winner of the Beta-Kilroy game 
that was replayed Monday night when the first game was called void.
Beamer Elected Track Captain; 
Possibility of New Records
Tech’s version of the Gazelle 
Boy can be seen by all those inter­
ested any afternoon in the Bowl. 
Closer examination of this plod­
ding figure would reveal that it 
is Bill Beamer, who has been 
chosen to lead this year’s version 
of Halferty’s Thin Clads into com­
bat.
Mr. B. is well qualified when 
it comes to matters of track and 
cross country. After being born 
and raised in Manor, Pa., Bill re­
ported for action at Greensburg 
Junior High school. He tried and 
tried to become a track man but 
was outstandingly unsuccessful. 
Bill Makes Good
Upon graduation to high school, 
Bill kept trying but made very lit­
tle progress. Then something hap­
pened between his junior and 
senior years that even Bill 
couldn’t explain. Suddenly he 
couldn’jt lose races any more. 
Running the half mile, he broke 
the Western Pennsylvania high 
school record as he covered the 
distance in 2:02.4. On the same 
day he was awarded a Westing- 
house scholarship which made it
one of the red-letter days in his 
life.
Bill continued the mastery over 
his high school adversaries until 
he hit the State Finals at Penn 
State. Running well, he committed 
the unforgivable sin of looking 
back to see how far ahead he was. 
Seeing nobody within twenty 
yards, Bill slowed down. What 
he failed to see was an opponent 
running at his shoulders. The mo­
ment’s hesitation proved fatal and 
Bill could do not betetr than sec­
ond.
Arrives At Tech
With his scholarship tucked 
firmly in his pocket, Bill appear­
ed on the local scene in 1941. Re­
porting for track, he found a cry­
ing need for milers, so he switch­
ed and has been running the long­
er distance ever since. And a good 
one at that, as he emerged as one 
of the foremost milers in the dis­
trict, winning every meet except 
the Intercollegiate Championships.
Around came the fall of ’42 and 
Willie was at it again. While at 
Geneva, he set the course rec­
ord. After taking a breather be- 
[Continued on page 8]
T.X. Leads League
At the same time in the Federal 
League, T.X. needs a win over the 
Beta B team Monday to clinch 
the title. If they lose they will 
have to replay Citcom who is cur­
rently trailing the league-leaders 
by one game.
In any event the Federal League 
winner will play the winner in the 
National League on Friday night 
and on Monday the nationals will 
play the SA.E.’s.
Present standings of the teams:
AMERICAN LEAGUEWonLostSigma Alpha Epsilon70Delta Upsilon52F.P.H.A.43Emanons34Beta Sigma Rho34Hot Rocks34Hot Shots25Theta Xi B07
NATIONAL LEAGUEWonLost
Kappa Sigma A61Beta Theta Pi A51Kilroy A.C.51T.N.T.43Delta Tau Delta34Phi Kappa34A.S.C.E.16Tau Delta Phi07
FEDERAL LEAGUEWonLost
Theta Xi A60Citcom51Pi Kappa Alpha42Beta Theta Pi B33Alpha Tau Omega24Dorm Combine15Grecian Tide15Kappa Sigma B15
Soccer
Some time this week Mr.Moses
will announce the opening date 
for the soccer elimination tourna­
ment.

---------------------------------------------------

6THE CARNEGIE TARTANTUESDAY, MAR^H 26, 1047
Summer Session
[Continued from page 1]
The summer attendance plan is herewith reprinted:
Students Who 
Are Now
Freshman (1) 
Freshman (2) 
Sophomore (1) 
Sophomore (2)
Junior (1) 
Junior (2)
Senior (1)
Will Attend 1947 
Summer Semester
Will Not Attend 1947 
Summer Semester
All
All
All ------
Electrical Engineering All Others
Aeronautical Engineering 
Mechanical Engineering
All ------
Chemical Engineering All Others
Electrical Engineering
Aeronautical Engineering ^
Mechanical Engineering
All except Chemical Eng. Chemical Engin.
and Metallurgical Eng. Chemical Eng.
Students Appear 
In Hasty Heart
Three CIT drama students will 
appear in The Hasty Heart, the 
last play of the Pittsburgh Play­
house subscription season, which 
opens on March 27 and will con­
tinue until April 27. James 
Schmitt, a junior, Phyllis Ann 
Love, sophomore, and Elek Hart­
man, freshman, have been cast in 
this production.
P. A. and Hartman played re­
cently in You Can’t Take It With 
You as Alice and Mr. Kirby, and 
Schmitt is currently playing the 
Fool in King Lear.
James Schmitt appeared at the 
Playhouse last year as Hildy 
Johnson in The Front Page, and 
this year P.A. played Susie in 
Boy Meets Girl.
John Dali appeared in The Has­
ty Heart when it was at the Nixon 
last season. In the present pro­
duction Dudley Clowes has the 
leading role as the Scotsman 
whose hasty heart gives the play 
its title.
The Hasty Heart will be fol- 
dowed at the Playhouse by an 
original and as yet untitled musi­
cal review which opens on May 3.
Dramats Present Play 
By Graduate Student
The drama department’s next 
venture will be a production of 
a new play, Coronodo’s Children, 
by John Witcher Young, a gradu­
ate student in the department 
The play will open April 15 and 
run through April 22. Casts for 
the play and distribution dates 
for tickets will be announced 
shortly.
Fraternity Roiv
[Continued from page 4]
Hap Hazard. Replacing them as 
pledges are Ted Tsevdos, Ed 
Spires, Howard Bronko, Mike 
Dripchak, A1 Lentz and Bob 
Paustian.
At the DU’s party last Saturday 
Stan Lord pinned Betty Johnson.
New officers for the ATO’s for 
the semester were announced Iasi 
week. Theodore Ulrich is presi­
dent of the house, Frank James, 
vice-president, and Joseph Phelps 
secretary. The new treasurer is 
Robert Schier.
S&S Prices
[Continued from page 1]
Riot will go on sale soon after 
the Easter vacation on a first- 
come-first served basis. The six 
hundred non-Carnival seats are 
distributed evenly among the or­
chestra, first and second balcony 
sections of the Carnegie Music 
Hall. Initial purchases will have 
the choice of both location and 
date. Each student not having a 
Carnival ticket will be able to 
purchase two Scotch and Soda 
seats upon presentation of his or 
her registration card.
Extensive publicity, both on 
and off campus, will herald the 
sale of tickets to the Scotch and 
Soda show. In the latter part of 
this week, the entries in the post­
er contest conducted at the Mel­
bourne School of Advertising Art 
will be exhibited in Skibo. The 
best entry, chosen by Professors 
Lepper and Weninger of the Col­
lege of Fine Arts, will be silk 
screened and distributed among 
the hotels, theatres, clubs, and 
better stores in Pittsburgh.
Cano On Sale
[Continued from page 2] 
dence of the variety and scope of 
the material selected for publi­
cation by Cano’s Literary Board.
A. Starke Drischel, author of 
“Tugglebutt,” is a freshman dra­
matic student intending to major 
in playwriting. Mr. Drischell has 
a great zest for living, and as a re­
sult he is an intense worker. 
While serving in the infantry in 
southern Germany, he actually 
observed the incidents described 
in his story, which is a realistic 
tale of the experiences of a Ger­
man boy adopted as the mascot of 
an American occupational regi­
ment.
Travel-Inspired Writing
Much of the writing of the war
S&S Shots
[Continued from page 3]
29th, some eighty people will 
share the limelight on the stage 
and in the orchestra pit. Dottie is 
but one of the hundred-odd peo­
ple behind the scene — the pro­
duction stuff, publicity workers, 
and many others without whom 
the show could not go on.
generation results directly from 
their personal experiences. Their 
travels in the war led to all parts 
of the globe, and, to those who 
but noticed, inspiration was 
everywhere. Everett Hoffman no­
ticed, and wrote. Two of his po­
ems, “Typhoon” and “The Man of 
India,” are a result. He spent a 
year in India while serving with 
the U. S. Army, and in the same 
manner spent some time in the 
south seas. It is upon these-ex­
periences that Mr. Hoffman, a 
junior P & D, based his two ex­
pressive poems.
Perhaps the best poetry is that 
written while the poet is influ­
enced by some vagrant mood or 
emotion. Such poems are “Night 
Wind,” and “Lie” by Martin Gal. 
These poems are expressive exam­
ples of the most abstract form in 
poetry. Mr. Gal is a freshman in 
the drama department with the 
present intention of majoring in 
acting. He is considerably inter­
ested in creative writing, how­
ever, and is seriously considering 
writing as his future vocation.
One Engineer
The only engineer among the 
authors of this first issue is 
George E. Schindler, who writes
on the provocative subject, “Are 
Books Really Worth It?” Mr. 
Schindler, a junior in chemical 
engineering, is seriously inter­
ested in writing and plans to cor­
relate his engineering education 
and literary interest by doing such 
work as editing technical publi­
cations. He is a graduate in me­
teorology from the University of 
Chicago and a veteran of the 
Army Air Forces.
A short impressionistic piece, 
“Sunday Mornings,” was written 
by Arlene Dumond, drama fresh­
man. Her sketch is based on her 
experiences in France, where she 
was stationed as an army nurse.
when you7mokev
PHILIP MORRIS
/
CLEAN, FRESH, PURE
America’s FINEST Cigarette!
. i
¦ There’s an important difference in TUESED AY,,EM 
manufacture that lets the FULL FLAVOR of the 
world’s finest tobaccos come through for your com­
plete eniovment—clean, fresh, pure!
That’s why the flavor’s ALL yours when you smoke 
TUESED AY,,EMR That’s why TUESED AY,,EM taste better 
—smoke better—all day long!
_ i 0No wonder that with millions of smokers everywhere, 
TUESED AY,,EM is America’s FINEST Cigarette!
PH I UP MM
ALWAYS BETTERt-BETTER ALL WAYS
Found
Mrs. Barr has reported that 
two albums of records have 
been found in the Carnegie 
Inn. They can be regained by 
calling at McGill hall and 
Identifying the records.

---------------------------------------------------

BETSY ROSS
TEA ROOM
The perfect place for meals away from school
Good Food—Low Prices—Conveniently Near 
FORBES STREET, OAKLAND
* * THE CARNEGIE PLAID * *
* Page Edited by Evening School Students of Carnegie Institute of Technology
TUESDAY, MARCH 25, 1947___________________ THE CARNEGIE TARTAN 7
CIT Secretary Sings Praises 
Of Industrious Janitor’s Deeds
A man is wealthy when he has 
many friends; a man is satisfied 
when he is busy at work; a man 
is happy when he is contented 
with life. But great is the man who 
possesses all three of these.
If friends were used as a means 
to measure a man’s wealth, I am 
sure that Walter, the beloved and 
devoted janitor of Industries hall, 
would own a king’s treasure. As 
one sees Walter, spry and ener­
getic for his sixty years, with an 
ever-ready big broad smile light­
ing up his brown face, it is not 
hard to understand why every of­
fice girl always has a big “hello” 
for him.
Secretaries, clerks, and faculty 
alike will tell yqji that if there is 
anything to be done in the line 
of janitorial work, all that is 
needed is to call Walter. Maybe 
he is called because he will do all 
the dirty work with a gracious 
smile, but it is certain that he is 
also a great favorite for many 
other reasons.
Walter’s Weakness
There are few ways, however, 
to show appreciation for such a 
friend, but the girls at Carnegie 
Tech have found Walter’s weak­
ness. Many years ago they learned 
that Walter loved to receive and 
send greeting cards for every oc­
casion; so now, on every holiday, 
Walter’s friends find that sending 
him a pretty greeting card will 
make his smile a little wider and 
his eyes a little brighter.
Walter, too, never fails to re­
member everyone’s birthday, even 
though the ranks of workers have 
been greatly increased. It was on 
my birthday, when I first saw the 
big sprawled writing on a very 
pretty birthday card, that I be­
gan to think how gentle and fine 
a heart must beat within a man
who makes it a duty to use this 
means to show his appreciation of 
a friendship.
Greater Virtue
Anyone of Walter’s numerous 
friends will agree that his greatest 
virtue is his willingness to perform 
chores outside his allotted duties 
of cleaning and sweeping. If 
Walter were told that his job con­
sisted of only cleaning, his friend­
ly brown face would light up and 
he would probably say, “Sure 
thing! But then what would all 
the girls do without my help?”
And how right he would be. 
Whereas the hundreds of little 
favors which an office girl needs 
might soon weaken a younger and 
stronger man, Walter with his ag­
ing years and bent frame finds 
time and energy to satisfy even 
their smallest whims with a 
smile.
When he is wanted, he is always 
there—as quiet as a shadow and 
just as faithful. For twenty years 
the lowly task of a anitor has 
meant to him a job to be done and 
done well. How few people today 
can say proudly that, no matter 
how insignificant their work, they 
still did it willingly and with de­
votion!
Personal Life
The personal life our favor­
ite janitor is a lesson in happi­
ness and contentment. Although 
he spent his youth wandering 
from city to city seeking excite­
ment, today he occupies his time 
by helping those less fortunate 
than himself find enjoyment.
After coming in contact with 
such a man as Walter, who is hap­
py and successful in his own way, 
I can readily understand that 
greatness can indeed spring from 
those in the humblest of all walks 
of life.
Annual Banquet For Engineers 
Tradition Of Evening School
Carnegie Tech’s Evening School has many traditions that 
have been handed down through the years and one of the most 
important is the Engineer’s Annual banquet.
The engineers have produced these gala affairs year after 
year without fail and this year, the thirty-second, will be no
exception. When the night of
Constitution Plans 
Are Revealed By 
Phi Gamma Pi
The regular monthly meeting of 
Phi Gamma Pi was held March
16 at the Carnegie Union.
As was the case in the past 
two previous meetings, most of 
the time was taken up with the 
discussion of the constitution now 
in the process of being written 
for the group. Such items as dues, 
officers and membership were dis­
cussed.
Proposals were mentioned for 
an inactive membership in the 
group. Under an arrangement 
such as this, girls who were mem­
bers of Phi Gamma Pi during the 
time they attended evening class­
es here would be transferred to 
an inactive or alumni group at 
the time they discontinued their 
classes.
The president of Phi Gamma 
Pi mentioned the fact that the 
WSSF campaign for funds for the 
relief of students in colleges and 
universities in war-torn lands was 
now being conducted at CIT. She 
said that several evening students 
were needed to carry on this drive 
and reach the students who at­
tended their classes in the even­
ing. Marjorie Bomer, Peggy Hoff-
April 12 rolls around, evening 
school engineers and their friends 
will gather together in the English 
room of the Fort Pitt hotel to en­
joy an evening of fun and good- 
fellowship.
To the new evening school stu­
dents on the campus, we might 
add that, if this tradition is to be 
carried on, it will have to be your 
responsibility to carry it into the 
future.
The first step in the right direc­
tion will be to attend the banquet 
and to experience the good time 
to be had and, in this way, un­
derstand what these banquets 
have meant to former evening 
school engineers and why it 
should be a tradition to carry on 
to future years.
So, make plans now to attend 
this banquet, and get your tickets 
immediately. They can be obtain­
ed from any council member or 
from Mr. McKelway in his of­
fice, IH 132 D. A thing to remem­
ber is that you can bring as many 
friends as' you care to, for the 
more fellows present, the mer­
rier the time that will be had by 
all. Watch the PLAID and also the 
bulletin boards for more informa­
tion concerning the banquet.
man, Grace Kruger, Rosemary 
Malinic, Margery Froehlich and 
Stephanie Majeski volunteered 
for this work.
The Carnegie Plaid
Editor Betty Ashcraft News Editor Norman Martello Associate Editors 
Anne Shack Cecille Zellner Page edited by Evening School students 
of Carnegie Institute of Technology. All views or opinions expressed in editorial column are not necessarily endorsed by 
the Editorial Board of the Day School 
staff.StaffLou Adams Rosemary EcklesGeorge Bogovich Charles GerdingElsie Capelli Frank MihelicThomas Cuscino Albert SnowdenJohn Vranic
. . . Did you know that last 
Friday was the first day of spring? 
I’ll bet you didn’t. At least not 
if you have been going by the 
weather. The calendar says that 
legally March 21 is the first day 
of spring. I wish someone would 
tell Donnie Dingbat . . .
... It has been so cold here 
-that the swallows are planning to 
stay where they were before they 
went to Capistrano . . . It’s been 
said that March always comes in 
like a lion and goes out like a 
lamb. This year the lamb took a 
raincheck on the place.
.* . . While the rest of the
people in the country are romping 
in the warm sunshine, Pittsburgh­
ers are watching that beautiful, 
¿ray, soot-filled, slushy, wet, cold 
stuff come falling down.
. . . Why, it’s been so cold here 
that Dan Cupid himself is afraid 
to come around for fear that he 
will get chilblains in his wings. 
Even now, when he gets anywhere 
near Pittsburgh, he uses icicles 
instead of arows.
. . . Speaking of Cupid, the 
other night I overheard a boy ask 
a girl to marry him. She was 
chattering so much, it was hard 
to tell whether she had said “Yes,” 
or was merely gritting her teeth.
. . . Texans can brag about 
their wide open spaces; but Pitts­
burghers can brag about their 
seasons, all two of them . . . 
cold and wet!
4*^
Have aCoke
WHEN THEOCCASION CALLS FOR A% 
DRESS OXFORD
The BUCKINGHAM 
Style 8627
Here's a handsome srrle in 
antique full-graio, selected 
leather. Medallion tip . . . 
half double sole. A winner 
in quality! A winner in style!
IOTUED UNDER AUTHORITY OF THE COCA-COLA COMPANY #Y
COCA-COLA BOTTLING CO, OF PA* PITTSBURGH. PA.
W.L.
W. I. DOUGLAS (SHOE CO. OOOCKTON S.IW.
PITTSBURGH
205 FIFTH AVENUE
417-19 East Ohio St., N. S. 6223 Frankstown Ave. (E. Liberty
1202 MARKET ST., WHEELING

---------------------------------------------------

THE CARNEGIE TARTANTUESDAY, MARCH 25, 1947
CHARLEY TRIPPI
University of Georgia’s 
great All-America back
VOTED TOPS
CHESTERFIELD
THE LARGEST SELLING 
CIGARETTE 
IN AMERICA'S COLLEGES
(BY NATION WIDE SURVEY)
• Replaceable filter in new 
Frank Medico Cigarette Holders, 
lifters the smoke.
• Cuts down nicotine.
• Cuts down irritating tars.
• In zephyrweight aluminum.
• Special stylos for men and women, 
o $8 with 10 filters, handy pouch
and gift box.
S. M. FRANK A CO., INC., NEW TOKK 22
Let’s go to
ISALY'S
Milk Shakes 
Big Ice Cream Cones 
Klondikes 
Tasty Lunches
Editorial
Three Stores in the College 
District
5808 Forbes Street Squirrel Hill 
3714 Forkes Street Oakland
Main Plant:
3380 Boulevard of the Allies
[Continued from page 2] 
ning of her freshman year she 
accepts the fact and makes her 
adjustment to college without 
benefit of a sorority.
It is not for one person to say
Beamer Elected
[Continued from page 5] 
cause of world affairs and a 
“Greeting” he returned in the 
spring of ’46 and turned in a 
perfect season of mile-running, 
beating Pitt’s Sudzina twice. Last 
fall found him leading the cross­
country team.
Too Much Sudzina
He went back to Geneva and 
broke his own record, this time 
by a matter of minutes. His only 
losses were suffered at the hands 
of Sudzina. In one of these races 
Bill broke the Schenley Park all- 
time record, only to find himself 
trailing his arch-rival.
It seems that there is more than 
running ability in his gent, as his 
record here indicates. A staunch 
Kappa Sig, he is in the usual run 
of honoraries and at present is di­
viding his time between presi­
dency of the Y Cabinet and the 
Spring Carnival Ticket commit­
tee. A lover of music, he has spent 
most of his summers at Chatau- 
qua, but hopes to spend this com­
ing one at Fairmont, W. Va., for 
reasons best known to himself.
what is the best rush system, but 
it is the job of Panhellenic to 
study the situation, profit by the 
experience of other schools, and
act on their findings.
Once this problem is solved, 
Panhellenic will have time to help 
the sororities cooperate in work-
ing out common problems of offi- creative influence in he lives of
cer and pledge training, social women students,
calendars, and so forth so that the CH
sororities may become a really
ALL OVER AMERICA —CHESTERFIELD IS TOPS!
 ......................"...........  " "««w-wiiii i.i.jL.ür- ! rn J u-uinin/im-rr-riiuin-iiii i Copjr^ l&VfcwT *
