olume 84. Issue 10Carnegie Mellon University. Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania14 November 1989
olumu e8 4.I s10Nv.
Senior Kena Tangi Dorsey and junior W. Ellis Porter dance and sing up a storm in the Drama Deparment’s 
production of I Hear America Singing. See review on page L9.
Western Reserve 48-14 in 
the football season finale.
See page 11.
'The Tartans head to 
Boston on Friday to kick off 
the 1989-90 basketball 
season.
See page 11.
’Following 104 consecu­
tive dual meet victories, the 
men’s cross-country team 
takes second in the NCAA 
regionals.
Seepage 11.
Features
•An addict and a dealer 
talk about drugs at Carne­
gie Mellon.
See page LI.
Dave Ostrowski, an SAE 
brother, wins Mr. Frater­
nity.
See page L4.
Diversions
•CMU Drama presents 
french performer Jacques 
Bourgaux in Don Quixotte.
See page Lll,
I ‘Andrew Lloyd Webber’s 
Starlight Express rolls into 
ithe Benedum Center.
See page L10.
Index
Classifieds......................L13
Comics.................:............L5
Diversions..........................L9
Features.............................LI
Forum...................................6
Sports..................................11
University Calendar ....L14
THE TARTAN
Inside
News
•Though once banned 
from campus, the sorority 
system is a thriving and 
stable part of the Univer­
sity community.
See page 3.
. »The Berlin Wall has 
come down, but what 
questions about East 
Germany’s future have 
risen in its wake?
See page 3.
Forum
•Flag burning demon­
stration forces students to 
debate issues.
See page 6.
»“The Tumbling Dice” 
offer a complaint about 
their treatment at the 
Dance Marathon.
See page 8.
Police thwart planned flag burning
Campana cites safety concerns, instructs Campus Police to intervene
D.C. rally supports 
abortion rights
Quality questions surface with replacement of wall
Centre Plaza purchase still under consideration
By ANDREW WHEELER
Tartan Staffwriter
The replacement of a retaining 
wall near Centre Plaza Apart­
ments has raised some doubts 
about the quality of construction 
of the building in general.
Anthony Martin, director of 
Housing, claims that the Univer­
sity was aware of the poor condi­
tion of the retaining wall, and 
that the benefits of having a cen­
tral off-campus location outweigh
the disadvantages, possibly in­
cluding craftsmanship that’s be­
low par.
The Centre Plaza Apartments, 
located near the intersection of 
Centre and Morewood Avenues, 
were originally designed as lux­
ury apartments. The original 
owner went bankrupt, and now 
the property is held by Dollar 
Bank.
Carnegie Mellon has rented 
several apartments in the build­
ing for students this year and is
seriously considering purchasing 
the building. A final decision 
regarding the purchase is ex­
pected at the end of the month.
A retaining wall near the build­
ing is currently being replaced.
Martin said that Carnegie Mel­
lon was aware that the retaining 
wall was in bad condition, and 
that he had noticed that “there 
was clearly something wrong” 
when he visited the apartments.
He said that Dollar Bank- was
continued on page 5 Construction has forced residents to use a makeshift side entrance.
8 countries, including the U.S., 
soil them, wash them, and then 
bum them together in a metal 
basin. The ashes would have been 
placed together in a hollow model 
of the earth.
Bob Anderegg, a senior facility 
safety analyst for the University, 
and Assistant Dean of Student 
Affairs Ron Campana had Cam­
pus Police stop the protest for 
safety reasons.
“These flags are soaked in in­
flammable liquid,” said Ander­
egg. “Someone could be hurt.” 
Anderegg also thought that the 
possibility that a confrontation 
could occur was a safety issue. 
Over 150 people gathered at the 
scene; many became involved in 
heated debates.
Campana cited the windy con­
ditions in explaining why he called 
for the protest to be halted. “Po­
litical statements are not the is­
sue.... Safety is the ultimate is­
sue.” he said.
According to Caplan, however, 
politics were the issue. “I did dis­
cuss in depth with Bob Anderegg 
what I was going to do. We dis­
cussed my burning pieces of 100 
percent cotton soaked in an accel­
erant; he said he’d supply the 
extinguishers and that it was a 
‘go.’ The only thing I left out [of 
the discussion] was what patterns
were on the material.”
“As far as art projects go,”
Anderegg said, “we encourage 
students to express themselves.”
Addressingthis specific situation, 
however, he said, “I don’t think 
anybody’s flag should be burned.”
The goals of the demonstration, 
according to Caplan, were to in­
cite thinking about the freedom 
of expression and art — the pro­
tection of basic rights. In addi­
tion, through symbolic actions she 
sought to “eliminate formal divi­
sions between countries, to break 
down barriers ... to whitewash 
their history and start over ... to 
clean them and liberate them.”
The flags were purposely se­
lected to include those of the U.S.,
Soviet Union, China, Israel, El 
Salvador, South Africa, Chile, and 
Pakistan. “[The flags are those of] 
countries in turmoil,’’Caplansaid,
“countries that in some way have 
been suppressive.” The total cost 
of the flags was over $200.
Senior English major David 
Gantshar organized a counter­
protest to the demonstration,
which consisted of a number of jun|or art major Jessica Caplan's “performance art piece" that involved
Phi Kappa e a an aPPa burning eight flags was stopped by Campus Police for safety reasons.Sigma brothers. Im a patriotic
American,” Gantshar said. “Many have struggled for freedom, and chant of the Star Spangled Ban- 
people take their freedoms for now that we finally have it, people ner, Caplan explained herself 
granted and show no respect for are burning the flag.” further. “My rights are being
our country. Over history, people As Gantshar’s group began a vuIm1I0br uI o.9b F
Harvey hopes to improve gym
By FARRON W. LEVY
Tartan Assistant News Editor
Athletic Director John Harvey 
wants to make Carnegie Mellon’s 
gym facilities “more usable, effi­
cient, and pleasing to work out 
in.”
Improvements to the weight 
room have already been made. 
Through a special allocation of
$5,000 from Vice President for 
Enrollment Bill Elliot, “seven to 
eight new machines have been 
bought, along with new plates 
and dumbbells, and we have re­
padded someoftheoldmachines,” 
said Harvey.
“It still isn’t a complete job,” 
Harvey explained. “I wish we 
could’ve junked all the old ma­
chines that needed to be replaced,
but there wasn’t enough money.” 
While the new machines are all 
in, only half of them have been 
bolted down. “It’s coming along 
slowly. We haven’t been able to 
get Physical Plant to bolt the other 
half of the machines down. There 
are also some mirrors that still 
have to be moved.”
The only money left for the 
vuIm1I0br uI o.9b F
By JONATHAN LEVY
Tartan Contributing Editor
WASHINGTON — “We are 
here on behalf of a fundamental 
Constitutional right — the right 
to privacy,” National Organiza­
tion for Women President Molly 
Yard told an estimated 300,000 
people at a pro-choice rally Sun­
day.
People from around the coun­
try gathered between the Lin­
coln and Washington Memorials 
to lobby the federal and state 
governments in favor of keeping 
abortion “safe and legal.” Atleast 
two groups from Carnegie Mel­
lon were among the many college 
students at the rally.
“I'm doing it because I want 
there to be a choice,” said junior 
Edith Laurencin, one of eight 
female Carnegie Mellon students 
who attended a women’s confer­
ence in Washington over the 
weekend before participating in 
the rally.
Junior Susan Gallagher, an­
other member of the group, said 
she felt the issue of choice in the 
case of abortion was related to 
other issues of women’s freedom.
“I hope to promote a greater 
awareness ofthisissue,” she said. 
She said that women were upset 
by the Supreme Court’s decision 
last summer in the case of Web­
ster vs. Reproductive Services. In 
that decision, the Court upheld a 
Missouri law restricting public 
funding for abortion.
Gallagher said that people are 
wrong if they think feminism is 
dead.
The rally in Washington was 
the lead event of a nationwide 
effort which NOW called “Mobi­
lize for Women’s Lives.” Over 
1,000 other events were held 
around the country Sunday, draw­
ing nearly 1 million people, ac­
cording to NOW officials.
In addition to Yard, a number 
of other political leaders and ce­
lebrities spoke and performed 
from the steps of the Lincoln 
Memorial. Former San Francisco 
Mayor Diane Feinstein spoke in 
favor of the right to legal abortion 
and increased political power for 
women, as did Lieutenant Gover­
nors Evelyn Murphy (D-Mass.) 
and Joann Zimmerman (D-Iowa). 
All three are announced candi­
dates for governor in their states.
The entertainers who per­
formed during the rally included 
singers Pete Seeger and Helen 
Reddy.
Speakers at the rally pointed to 
victories by pro-choice candidates 
in last week’s elections in Vir­
ginia, New Jersey, and New York 
City as evidence that support is 
building for their cause. They 
promised to continue the fight in 
the 1990 and 1992 national elec­
tions.
Eleanor Smeal, president of the 
Fund for the Feminist Majority 
and former president of NOW, 
called for the feminization of 
vuIm1I0br uI o.9b a
By FARRON W. LEVY
Tartan Assistant News Editor
Political protest took the form 
of symbolic art Thursday when 
third-year art student Jessica 
Caplan’s planned flag burning 
ceremony on the Cut was 
thwarted by Carnegie Mellon 
Police before any fires could be 
set.
Caplan, who began advertising 
the event Monday, planned to 
hang kerosene-soaked flags from
olumu e8 t1vl.bD in wuPb 
Junior IM major Scott Zucker was 
amongthe counter-protestors who 
opposed Caplan's planned burning.

---------------------------------------------------

cilb i.Nm.I h p.NIb91b tbDDuI h dF fugbCebN dy,y
Carnegie Mellon in Brief
University employee struck 
by vehicle near Mudge
Annual Giving staff member Tonya Thompson was injured 
Wednesday when she was struck by a car driven by Carnegie 
Mellon student Romel Bambao Jacinto.
Thompson was crossing Morewood from Mudge when she was 
struck by the car. She crossed against the light.
. Jacinto, a senior mechanical engineering major and Theta Xi 
brother, was driving a Volkswagon Jetta according to witness 
Mark Choi. The victim received injuries to the knee and hip area 
and was kept at Presbyterian University Hospital overnight.
AIDS teleconference will 
take place in Skibo Thursday
Carnegie Mellon will take part in a live, interactive teleconfer­
ence Thursday. The subject of the conference is “AIDS in the 
College Community: From Crisis to Management.”
The conference is being transmitted live from Ohio via satellite 
to over 400 hospitals and universities across the nation. Carnegie 
Mellon has rented a satellite dish for the occasion. It will be set 
up in the parking lot near the loading docks at the side of Skibo.
The Instructional Technology Department will assist in con­
necting the satellite to the special wide-screen television also 
rented for the event. Special telephone lines will be available to 
students to call in with their own comments and questions.
The event is being co-sponsored by Student Affairs, the Hous­
ing Office, SDC, and AB. It will take place in the Wherrett Room 
Lfrom 1 to 4 prn. Students are encouraged to stop in any time 
during the conference.
A follow-up discussion will take place Monday in DH 1212 from 
4:30 to 6:30 pm. Dinner will be included.
Registrar, departments happy 
with registration process
The new registration process used this semester worked well, 
according to the Registrar and several academic departments.
Donna Gordon, undergraduate student coordinator for the 
Department of Electrical and Computer Engineering, said that 
she thought the new system was a good idea. Gordon said that 
both the new coinputer system and the separation of days 
between the different grades had positive effects on registration. 
“It’s a better idea to have people do it this way,” she said, “so 
seniors who need classes have first crack [at them].”
Officials in the Statistics Department and the English Depart­
ment agreed that the new system helped to speed up registration 
t and make it easier for both departments and students.
Problems with the new computer system occurred primarily 
during those periods when system usage was greatest. “When all 
the users were on the system,” said Gordoh, “things slowed down. 
The system would disconnect when the load got heaviest.”
“Overall, I think [the system] worked better than expected,” 
.said Registrar Pochard Rainsberger. Addressing the problems 
that did occur w., Cfr the hardware, he said cited that “There are 
still a few things to work on for next time.”
Fraternity hosts fundraiser
Between Friday and Sunday, Pi Lambda Phi hosted eighteen 
Pilam chapters from around the United States and Canada in the 
third annual Jolly Laddies Steel City Shootout, a two-day, single 
elimination football tournament to raise money for United Cere­
bral Palsy. Through a pennies-for-points system, as well as 
through canning for donations, over $3,000 was raised for UCP.
WORLD NEWS
Berlin Wall dismantled; borders open
BERLIN (AP) — Tens of thou­
sands of giddy East Germans 
streamed into West Berlin and 
other parts of West Germany 
Friday after a heady night of cele­
brating the opening of the Berlin 
Wall and western borders for the 
first time in 28 years.
“The Wall is gone! Berlin is 
again Berlin,” proclaimed a ban­
ner headline in the Bild Zeitung, 
the main WestBerlin tabloid. Rev­
elers in downtown West Berlin 
early Friday waved copies of the 
newspaper, popped champagne 
corks, and lit sparklers.
Communist authorities opened 
East German borders Thursday 
in a desperate attempt to stem 
the flow of people fleeing to the 
West and quell the growing dem­
onstrations that have spread to 
several cities. The sudden deci­
sion to open the borders came at a 
Central Committee meeting 
Thursday and followed a dizzying 
series of reforms announced by 
new Communist leader Egon 
Krenz.
More than 200,000 East Ger­
mans, nearly 1.5 percent of the 
nation’s 16.5 million people, have 
left so far this year — 56,000 
through Czechoslovakia since 
Saturday alone. Most are young, 
skilled workers vital to the econ­
omy.
The abrupt opening of the once 
heavily-fortified borders was the 
breathtaking climax of a remark­
able series of reforms that began 
three weeks ago in this once 
strictly-controlled society.
East and West Berliners joined 
in dancing atop the Berlin Wall 
during the celebrations, which 
lasted from about 10 pm Thurs­
day night until about 5 am Fri­
day. More than 50,000 East Ber­
liners crossed into West Berlin 
during the night, according to a 
West German radio station. Only 
about 1,000 of them planned to 
stay, the station reported.
The sight of people dancing atop 
the barrier that epitomized the 
Cold War since it was built in 
1961 was unthinkable only hours 
earlier. Some took hammers and 
chisels to the wall Thursday night, 
chipping it for souvenirs or join­
ing in a symbolic effort to tear it 
down.
Friday, lines of East Berliners 
waited at control points to enter 
West Berlin, and Communist 
border guards were rapidly hand­
ing out visas. The visas were 
required as of this morning for 
those wanting only to visit the 
West.
Border guards allowed many 
East Germans over the border 
aftermerely stamping theiriden- 
tity papers. Some didn’t require 
that, and guards from both coun­
tries stood together at the border.
China’s Deng 
Xiaoping resigns 
military post
BEIJING(AP)—China’s Tjf)e 
Xiaoping has resigned as cihi 
man of the powerful Centra/1 j 
tary Commission, his last foi, 
leadership post, the st;4te-i 
Xinhua News Agency said.
In addition, Commujtiist Pafl 
General Secretary Ji;.ang Zenj 
was named Thursday to replai 
the 85-year-old Deng, and Pres 
dent Yang Shangkuii was nam( 
first vice chairman, the repoi 
said.
The reshuffling followed a ri 
ported power struggle betwee 
the 82-year-old Yang andyoungi 
party leaders such as Jiang.
Deng, however, is expected t 
remain the paramount force 
Chinese politics even after hi 
retirement be cause of his connei 
tions and role in Chinese polic 
for the past decade.
NATIONAL NEWS
Correction ...
In last week’s issue [“Creating the Perfect Room”], junior 
computer engineering major Frank Koss’sname was misspelled.
Democrats fare 
well in regional 
elections
WASHINGTON (DJ) — The 
volatile politics of abortion hurt 
Republicans throughout the 
campaign and powered an elec- 
tion-day nightmare that extended 
to New Jersey, where Democratic 
Rep. James Florio reclaimed the 
governorship for his party and 
the Democrats regained control 
of the Assembly.
Just as significant as the pro- 
choice political turnout was the 
extension of black political suc­
cess in America’s large city halls. 
Led by David Dinkins, blacks also 
succeeded white mayors in Se­
attle, Cleveland, New Haven, 
Conn., and Durham, N.C.
The main event of the day was 
in Virginia, where Republican J. 
Marshall Coleman trailed Demo­
crat Douglas Wilder by 7,700 votes 
of more than 1.7 million cast in 
the unofficial, final vote count. 
Wilder finished with 889,869 
votes, Coleman finished with 
882,137 votes.
New York City voters also ap­
proved a new city charter that
gives more power to the mayor 
and an expanded City Council in 
the most sweeping overhaul of 
municipal government since the 
five-borough city was formed in 
1898.
The charter that passed yester­
day would wipe out the powerful, 
eight-member Board of Estimate 
and transfer most of its powers to 
the mayor and a City Council 
enlarged from 35 to 51 members.
Pentagon braces 
for Gramm-Rudman 
budget cuts
WASHINGTON (DJ) — In the 
face of automatic Gramm- 
Rudman spending cuts, Penta­
gon brass told Congress they are 
drawing up contingency plans for 
what could be the most sweeping 
reduction in U.S. military forces 
since the end of the'Vietnam War.
The most extreme scenarios call 
for rapidly slashing active troop 
strength between 170,000 and 
nearly 230,000 world-wide and 
scaling back multibillion dollar 
plans for the next generation of 
jet fighters and carrier-based 
attack planes. Pentagon experts 
disclosed the details in testimony
before the Senate Armed Serv­
ices Committee.
Even if the automatic cuts are 
reversed within a few months, 
officials indicated that sizable 
reductions in Army strength, 
naval forces, and combat aircraft 
appear inevitable.
Quite apart from the Gramm- 
Rudman law’s requirements, 
Defense Secretary Dick Cheney 
“may yet elect” to push through 
his own personnel reductions over 
the next few months, O’Keefe told 
lawmakers. Under Gramm- 
Rudman, Pentagon officials con­
tend they don’t have enough flexi­
bility to target cuts and to mini­
mize damage to military prepar­
edness.
The Pentagon faces as much as 
$8 billion in cuts under Gramm- 
Rudman out ofits more than $300 
billion budget request for the fis­
cal year that began October 1.
Bush announces 
HOPE to aid low- 
income housing
WASHINGTON (DJ) — Presi­
dent Bush announced a package 
of housing initiatives that pro­
mote low-income homeownership,
allow use by the homeless of cut 
rently vacant units, and preserv 
units for poor residents threat 
ened with displacement.
Bush announced the HOPE pro 
gram, or “Homeownership, Op 
portunity, and Prosperity for E\' 
eryone,” at the National Associa 
tion of Realtors conference 
Dallas Friday.
As part of the program, a 
billion homeownership packag 
encourages resident ownership 
public housing units and othe 
HUD-owned houses, accordingt 
a draft of the proposals develope 
by HUD Secretary Jack Kemp.
Equal amounts, 43.5 percen 
each, would go to the state 
through a formula allocation an 
to localities through competitiv 
distribution. Ten percent woul 
be set aside for state and loca 
nonprofit organizations, an 
another 2 percent for nations 
nonprofit groups.
Briefs courtesy of 
Dow Jones, Inc.
Page two edited by 
Michael J. Ewedosh
PRESIDENTS
Distinguished Lecture Series
Francisco Sagasti
Chief of Strategic Planning, The World Bank
“The Debt Crisis and the 
Future of Latin America”
Monday, November 20, 1989 
3:30 p.m. 
Wherrett Room, Skibo Hall
The President’s Distinguished Lecture Series is organized by 
Faculty Senate, chaired by History Professor John Modell and 
funded by The Offiae of the President.Free and open to the public

---------------------------------------------------

ilb i.Nm.I h p.NIb91b tbDDuI h dF fugbCebN dy,yQ
¡sands stream across borders ...
Ipening of borders marks climax of changes in East Germany
DAVID SCHWARTZ
han Staffwriter
The destruction of the Berlin Wall 
arked a dramatic climax to several 
>ks of change in East Germany Thurs- 
jnight when the East German gov- 
jnent lifted restrictions on the emi- 
[tion of East German citizens to the 
st.¿cording to both Peter N. Steams, 
•d of Carnegie Mellon’s History De- 
%tment, and David Kaiser, an associ- 
C professor in the History Department, 
urge in popular unrest impelled the 
st German government to undertake 
eform movement.
'hat movement resulted in the exodus 
housands of East Germans and major
Carn egiMlnon
)espite low profile, sorority 
nembership increases here
changes that happened literally over­
night.
Kaiser says this decision shows that 
East Germany has finally realized de­
feat and sees the dismantling of strin­
gent communism as inevitable.
Steams agrees. “You can’t stop the 
people,” he says.
Both Steams and Kaiser feel that East 
Germany wants its people to be able to 
freely see the West and be able to travel 
back to the East in due time.
Kaiser questions the motives of the 
East German government in opening its 
borders. “There is a possibility that East
Germany allowed the exodus of East 
Germans into West Germany to have 
West Germany curtail the entrance of 
the [emigrants],” he says.
In light of what is happening in East 
Germany, the reunification of the di­
vided country is beginning to appear 
more feasible. “Reunification is a strong 
possibility,” says Kaiser.
But he also says that the objections of 
France, the United Kingdom, and the 
Soviet Union are important factors. “The 
Soviet Union shows outward support for 
reunification but would want to neutral­
ize and de-militarize a reunified Ger­
many upon its [coalition],” Kaiser says.
Steams agrees. He believes that the 
Soviet Union shows an interest in reuni­
fication, but may actually oppose it.
A surge in popular unrest impelled the East 
German government to undertake a reform 
movement. That movement resulted in the 
exodus of thousands of East Germans and 
major changes that happened literally over­
night.
Kaiser says he believes that a restruc­
turing of geopolitical alignments with a 
unified Germany or even with the 
changes occurring in the Eastern Bloc is 
inevitable. “There is a possibility that 
the changes in East Germany would
precipitate a need [for East Germany] to 
enter the European Economic Comunity, 
through West Germany,” says Kaiser. 
He also thinks East German involve­
ment would make other Eastern Bloc 
nations want to join the community.
àoing Greek in the 90s
Second in a series
y KARL BARNHART
irtan Contributing Editor
If you take a walk down Marga- 
Morrison Street, you might 
iss the sorority houses hanging 
-er the sidewalk.
Despite the three-foot tall Greek 
tters splashed across their 
irches, the brown- and red-brick 
ructures don’t really attract 
uch attention. Inside, however, 
lese buildings house a tradition 
most as old as the school itself. 
Except for a four-year period 
om 1918-1922, sororities have 
ien present on campus begin- 
ng with Theta Sigma, which 
rived at “Tech” in 1910. Five 
rorities are on campus today: 
hi Omega, Delta Delta Delta, 
elta Gamma, Kappa Alpha 
leta, and Kappa Kappa Gamma. 
All five of these sororities are 
cal chapters of national organi- 
itions and were installed here in 
144. Each house has a limit of 50 
embers and can accept pledges 
ter both a fall and a spring rush 
mod.
Membership is fairly high now, 
ith the largest sorority, Delta 
amma, having 50 members and 
le smallest sorority, Chi Omega, 
aving 21 sisters and pledges. 
‘Membership in all of the soror- 
1 houses seems to be increas- 
ig,” said Cheryl Wehrer, the 
resident of Kappa Kappa 
amma. Kappa has 31 sisters and
10 pledges.
One of the main reasons women 
join sororities is to meet other 
women. “It was really hardfor me 
to meet other women in my 
classes,” said Kathy Massucci, a 
senior majoring in professional 
and creative writing and a sister 
at Kappa Alpha Theta. “I went 
through rush just to meet other 
women on campus.”
“Women join sororities for a 
couple of reasons,” explained Chi 
Omega President Lisa Murray. 
“One, they want to meet other 
women on campus and to be a 
part of group that is made up of 
all women. And, two, they join 
because they are influenced to do 
so by their mothers.”
Like most things, however, the 
sorority system has its critics.
According to The Story of Car­
negie Tech, sororities were banned 
from campus by Dean of Women 
Mary B. Breed in 1918 because 
“she felt that secret societies were 
detrimental to the best interests 
of the student body as a whole, 
because they were undemocratic, 
and kept the non-sorority girl from 
participating in activities as gen­
erally might otherwise be pos­
sible.”
Even though the administra­
tive ban was lifted in 1922, criti­
cism continues today. Two CFA 
seniors, one majoring in sculp­
ture and one maj oring in illustra­
tion who refused to be identified 
and are not affiliated with any 
sorority, complained that the 
sorority system was just “a way to 
buy yourself some instant 
friends.”
While the two women admitted 
that going Greek was a good way
to learn leadership and social 
skills, they said that the sorority 
system was too restrictive for 
them with its rules for rushing 
and being a sister.
In addition, they said that so­
rorities were too image-conscious 
and too often an unnatural, forced 
environment to make friends. 
“The sororities take too much time 
and too much money — [sister­
hood] eats into your schoolwork. 
Besides, the best friends are the 
ones you make on your own.”
“Sororities aren’t for everyone,” 
responded Murray. “You don’t 
have to join one if you don’t want 
to.”
One thing that no one criticized 
was the philanthropic work that 
the sororities do. From fundrais­
ing to answering phones, the so­
rorities spend a lot of time work­
ing for charities.
‘We get together with the Tri 
Delt chapter at Pitt and make 
Halloween treat bags for the chil­
dren at Children’s Hospital,” said 
Beth Cavanaugh, the president 
of Delta Delta Delta. “It really 
means a lot to the kids in the burn 
and cancer units.”
Last week, Kappa Kappa 
Gamma — along with Phi Kappa 
Theta fraternity — raised $2,071
photo by Thomas Nichols
Junior art major Hillary Kahn buys a ticket to the Mr. Fraternity contest from Kappa Alpha Theta sisters Sue 
Quigley (left) and Debbie Carnegie. Mr. Fraternity, an annual fundraiser sponsored by Theta, this year raised 
over $1000 that will go towards research of Sudden Asthma Death Syndrome.
for the Make-A-Wish foundation 
by holding a dance marathon in 
the gym.
Just last weekend, Kappa Al­
pha Theta held its annual Mr.
Fraternity contest where it raised 
over $1,000 for Sudden Asthma 
Death Syndrome.
Other annual events include 
Delta Gamma’s Beautiful Eyes
Contest, Delta Delta Delta’s Pole 
Sit for multiple sclerosis, and , 
Greek Sing, which pools the tal- ; 
ent of all the sororities and frater­
nities.
SHORT AND SUITE
SHARPEN YOUR 
COMPETITIVE 
EDGE WITH 
AIR FORCE ROTC.
No matter what area 
you’ve chosen for your college 
major, you can enhance your com­
petitive strengths now. Join Air Force 
ROTC, and you’ll begin the first steps toward 
becoming an Air Force pilot, navigator, engineer, 
manager - a range of different disciplines. Most impor­
tant: your skills and managerial expertise will be built on 
the solid foundations of leadership that are critical to 
career success.
CAPT WILLIAM BELK 
412-268-8747
The Ivy League Spring 
in New York
Qualified upperclassmen are invited to apply for admission to 
Columbia College as visiting students beginning in January 
1990. Full access to housing, library resources, and upper divi­
sion courses. For further information and an application, write 
or call:
Columbia College Admissions Office 
212 Hamilton Hall 
New York, New York 10027 
(212) 854-2522 
Application deadline:' December 15, 1989
ELEGANT FURNISHED STUDIO
1 OR 2 BEDROOM APARTMENT SUITES
A FEW STEPS FROM THE FASHIONABLE SHOPS AND RESTAURANTS ON WALNUT STREET.
SHORT-TERM LEASE FROM $33"“ PER DAY (MONTHLY).DAILY AND WEEKLY RATES AVAILABLE.
INCLUDES FREE LOCAL PHONE, CABLE T.V. (2 MOVIE CHANNELS)
ALL LINENS, A COMPLETELY EQUIPPED KITCHEN,
AND PARKING.
MAID AND CONCIERGE SERVICES AVAILABLE
5405 Fifth Avenue • Pittsburgh, Pa 15232 
(412) 441-4444 
TOLL FREE 800-767-7666
Leadership Excellence Starts Here
420 S. CRAIG
683-2780
Breakfast 
Hefty Sandwiches 
Homemade Ice Cream 
Frozen Yogurt
Mon-Fri - 6:30 am - 10:00 pm 
Sat-Sun - Noon - 11:00 pm
SHORTTERM LEASES
q v.om1g.m1I9 
v0mn Hbr0vm1gb 
Pm8D1I9n W0N Pm.OO 
uO l19lD8 mN.1Ibr 
oNuObPP1uI.DP 
RIuL Ll.m 1m 
m.RbP mu vNb.mb 
. DuuR ml.m D1gbP 
0o mu u0N bES
obvm.m1uIP
237 Atwood St. 687-3500
Across the street from the Oakland Post Office
$3.00 Off
On a Precision Haircut
BvuCoDbmb L1ml L.Pl ; Pm8DbA 
Expires 11/30/89 
MUST HAVE COUPON
“I
I
I
I
I
Free Hair Consultation 
Also Available:
• Perms
• Coloring
• Frosting SATISFACTION
• Conditioning GUARANTEED

---------------------------------------------------

Filb i.Nm.I h p.NIb91b tbDDuI h dF fugbCebN dy,y
incident report: Doherty Apartments prowler arrestedCrime and
11/4 THEFT & RECOVERY,
9:53 pm. Unknown persons stole 
the Shirley Apartments ping-pong 
table. The table was valued at 
$10. The table was recovered in 
the building the next day.
11/4THEFT, between 9 pm and 
1 am. During the fifties dance in 
the Gymnasium’s Thistle Hall, a
green Land’s End jacket with a 
blue liner was stolen.
11/4 VIOLATION OF LIQ­
UOR LAWS, 11:23 pm. Campus 
Police responded to a report of a 
loud party in the Doherty Apart­
ments. An internal citation was 
issued to the host of the party for 
“a loud and disorderly party with
underage drinking.”
11/6 ARREST FOR PROWL­
ING AT NIGHT, 2:33 am. 
Campus Police received a report 
of a male lurking behind the 
Doherty Apartments. A person 
fitting the reported description 
was seen leaving the Doherty area 
in a grey automobile. The car was
stopped by Campus Police and, 
when the person was confronted, 
he gave conflicting reports as to 
what his prior actions were. He 
was placed under arrest and ar­
raigned for prowling at night.
11/6 THEFT, 5:09 pm. Un­
known persons broke into a staff 
member’s 1989 Chevrolet Spec­
trum parked in the Morewood 
Gardens parking lot.
11/9 RECKLESS DRIVING, 
1:27 am. Two Pitt students were 
driving around the Margaret 
Morrison Plaza courtyard in a 
white BMW. The vehicle was 
pursued to an apartment parking 
lot by Campus Police. Campus
Police were accompanied by Citj 
Police and were admitted into tk 
apartment of the owner of tj, 
vehicle. The owner denied driv 
ing the vehicle, so City Polio 
impounded the vehicle pending 
an investigation.
Compiled by DANIEL 
DE GRANDPRE
Gym improvements on track
vuIm1I0br ONuC o.9b d
weight room is a budgeted $1,000 
for general repair. As much as 
'Harvey would like to add on to it, 
“We don’t have a heck of a lot 
more space for new things,” he 
said.
The Universal weight set was 
moved to the body shop in an 
attempt to free up some of the 
space for the free-weight users, 
he said.
In general, lighting and paint­
ing improvements are underway 
throughout the building. Harvey 
points out that “it’s a 66 year old 
building, and it has a lot of prob­
lems with it.” Physical Plant is 
taking care of these improvements 
under general maintenance. “I 
don’t want people to think we’re 
using money for weights to paint 
the building — it’s not costing us 
anything,” says Harvey.
On the drawing board are plans 
for a $6 million renovation of the 
gym where “the gym will be re­
done, a new weight room put in, 
and a new training room built.” 
explained Harvey. “We know it 
will be done, we just don’t know 
where the money is coming from 
and when we’ll start.” The cur­
rent plan is for the project to begin
within five years.
In the more immediate future, 
Harvey looks forward to the 
completion of the new dormitory. 
“The football and track team will 
move into the new dorm, and 
soccer, cross-country, women’s 
track, and the Kiltie Band will 
move to Donner. This will relieve 
the locker crunch as well as free 
up a lot of space.”
“We have to get this building 
improved,” Harvey said. “We have 
immediate need and we must get 
the most that we can out of what 
we have. It’s part of the plan to 
improve quality of campus life.”
mWERE MUCH MORE THAN A MAILBOX!
I Private Mail Box Rental...24 hour access ¦ UPS. Emery. DHL, Ovenlght Letters
I Office Supplies ¦ photocopies
I Packing and Shipping ¦ Passport Photos, etc...
I Business Carts D FAX Service
Postal and Business ServicesMAW. BOXES ETC. USA
-••r o«-« i CKrun
FdF HWTik pwq¡ATED NEAR FORBES A' PITTSBURGH, PA(412) 687-6100
raffixi
Flag burning controversy unfolds on Cut
vuIm1I0br ONuC o.9b d
taken away from me, freedom of 
expression is being erased. This 
[art] piece is about exercising 
freedoms and thus protecting 
them.”
“I think [people’s] ideals are 
lopsided,” Caplan continued. “The 
flag has almost become a reli­
gious symbol.... Symbols mean 
different things to different 
people. Why can’t I burn a piece of 
fabric?”
The press had been notified 
before the demonstration, as well 
as the ACLU. “The ACLU prom­
ised to back me up,” Caplan said, 
..,‘%ut I didn’t get arrested.”
“I don’t think I would ever get 
permission to do this [again] on 
campus,” said Caplan.
But Caplan says she is satis­
fied, however, citing that “the fact 
that my freedom was infringed 
upon is part of the piece.... The 
purpose of art is to incite thought. 
The problem is that people don’t 
want their minds to be changed
— that’s why they won’t let me 
speak.”
When asked what action would 
be taken if Caplan decided to try 
and repeat her performance, 
Campana cited current Univer­
sity policy and Federal laws. 
“According to University safety
regulations, you cannot burn 
anything on campus without the 
permission of the dean of Student 
Affairs.... There is now Federal 
regulation by way of an executive 
order that makes it illegal to bum 
the flag. If a Federal law is bro­
ken, then we will notify the Fed­
eral authorities.”
Campana pointed out that 
Caplan did not go through the 
proper channels in planning the 
demonstration. “You need permis­
sion from the dean of Student 
Affairs, and she didn’t do that,” 
he said. He invited her to talk 
with the administration about the 
situation.
STUDY FOR SUCCESS
WORKSHOPS
Preparing for Finals
Tues, Nov. 28 4:30 - 6:00 pm
Reducing Test Anxiety
Tues, Dec. 5 4:30 - 5:30 pm
Call to Register. LEARNING SERVICES x6878
C'*' Sep/N h.
.t)'’«USHtO '
Sloan-Kettering Institute Cornell University Graduate School of Medical Sciences 
Graduate Program in Molecular Biology
The joint program of graduate studies leading to the Ph.D. degree in molecular biology of the Memorial 
Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center and the Cornell University Graduate School of Medical Sciences offers a 
unique and challenging opportunity for students whose goal is to be in the forefront of modern molecular 
biology. The faculty offers graduate research training in a variety of systems, including bacteria, yeast, 
drosophila, mammalian cells, and the mouse, on DNA replication and recombination, regulation of RNA 
synthesis and processing, receptors and their role in cell function and differentiation, and retroviruses, 
oncogenes, and development. In addition to developing their own research project, students are provided 
with formal training through a core curriculum, advanced courses and journal clubs. The adjacent campuses 
of the Sloan Kettering Institute, Cornell University Medical College, and the Rockefeller University form an 
outstanding scientific, medical, educational and social community. A wide variety of seminars and symposia 
are scheduled at all three institutions throughout the year that bring many eminent scientists from all over 
the world into the lecture hall. Such distinguished series as the Harvey Lectures and the Enzyme Club are 
a regular part of our scientific community.
Ballinger, Dennis-molecular genetics of Drosophila eye 
development.
Barany, Francis-molecular mechanisms of gene transfer 
in eukaryotic cells, and protein engineering.
Berns, Kenneth-molecular biology of adeno-associated 
virus replication.
Besmer, Peter-molecular biology of signal transduction 
& cell differentiation.
Brown, Anthony-mechanisms of oncogene action in 
tumorigenesis & function of proto-oncogenes in normal 
development.
Chao, Moses-regulation of eukaryotic gene expression 
by growth-regulated cell surface molecules.
DeLotto, Robert-molecular genetics & biochemistry of 
embryonic axis formation in Drosophila melanogaster. 
Dorsett, Dale-modification of eukaryotic gene expres­
sion by transposable elements.
Falck-Pedersen, Erik-in vivo & in vitro characterization 
of regulatory elements involved in eukaryotic transcrip­
tion termination & poly (A) site selection.
Gilboa, Eli-regulation of RNA processing of Moloney 
murine leukemia virus & the use of retroviral vectors 
for human therapy.
Hackett, Neil-genome structure & rearrangement in 
Halobacterium halobium. Mechanism of protein-DNA 
interaction in halophiles.
Hayward, William-mechanisms of oncogene activation 
in viral & non-viral tumorigenesis.
Holloman, William-mechanisms of recombination In 
lower eukaryotes.
Hurwilz, Jerard-enzymatic mechanisms of DNA replica­
tion & RNA splicing in eukaryotic cells.
Jack, Joseph-genetics & molecular biology of cell type 
determination in Drosophila melanogaster.
Krug, Robert-control of synthesis, processing & 
translation of viral and eukaryotic mRNAs.
Lacy, Elizabeth-molecular & genetic mechanisms of 
mammalian development In transgenic mice.
Lustig, Arthur-replication & stability of chromosomal 
telomeres in the yeast Saccharomyces cerevisiae. 
Lusky, Monika-molecular mechanisms & genetics of 
bovine papilloma virus replication: a model system for 
chromosomal replication in higher eukaryotic cells.
Marians, Kenneth-control & enzymatic mechanisms 
of DNA replication; mechanisms of topoisomerases.
Nell, Norma-structure & function of vacuolar-type 
proton ATPases & vesicle traffic in yeast.
O’Donnell, Michael-molecular mechanisms of bacterial 
& animal viral DNA replication.
Osley, Mary Ann-regulation of yeast histone gene 
expression; regulation of nucleosome assembly & 
function.
Rabkin, Samuel-enzymatic mechanisms of herpes 
simplex virus DNA replication & recombination.
Ravetch, Jeflrey-organization & expression of genes en­
coding eukaryotic cell receptor proteins.
Rosen, Ora-biochemical & molecular mechanisms of 
growth factor & polypeptide.
Shellery, Michael-relationship between chromatin 
structure, transcription & expression of differentiation- 
specific genes.
Shuman, Stewart-biochemical & genetic aspects of 
transcriptional control using vaccinia virus as a model • 
system.
Traktman, Paula-molecular genetics of vaccinia virus; 
viral DNA replication.
The school offers a central metropolitan location on the East Side of Manhattan, where accessibility to the 
cultural resources of the city is extraordinary. Every student is provided with subsidized housing within a 
few minutes walk from campus. In addition to subsidized housing, all Ph.D. candidates receive a stipend 
of $12,700.
For-additional Information or materials about the Graduate Program in Molecular Biology, please respond lo 
Ms. Linda Smith/Mol 90: Sloan-Kettering Institute-Cornell University Graduate School of Medical Sciences 
1275 York Ave., Box 150, New York, New York 10021 212-639-7655.
MSKCC is committed to equal opportunity Ihrough affirmative actions and therefore members of minority 
groups are encouraged to apply.

---------------------------------------------------

ilb i.Nm.I h p.NIb91b tbDDuI h dF fugbCebN dy,y
DOMINO’S PIZZA DELIVERS DESKTOP PIZZA
If you need a quick meal when you’re working late, you can count on Domino’s 
Pizza to deliver hot, delicious pizza(s) right to your desk in 30 minutes or less. Or 
you’ll get $3 off... guaranteed.I-------------------------------------------------1 All you have to do is call. And we can make a
pizza to satisfy everyone. You can order the 
toppings half and half—at no extra charge 
— no matter which size you order. We can 
even bring the drinks and napkins. Domino’s 
Pizza. Nobody Delivers Better.“CALL US:
681-1700
DESKTOP PIZZA 
SPECIAL
Call Domino’s Pizza 
when you’re working 
I through dinner, 
j get a regular 12’
I 
I 
I 
I 
I 
I 
I
| OFFER EXPIRES:I Vakd al participating stores orty Na vakd w J otler Prices may vary. Customer pay» oppl I la> limited delivery aroa Our dnvors carry less th.^ $20.00 # 1989 Dominos Pizza. Ire.
©1989 Domino's Pizza, Inc.
You’ll 
’ two-
item pizza for just $7. A 
hot, fresh meal in no 
time. When you don’t 
have time to spare.
315 N. Craig St.
•</>
Òz<
••
ï N OÜ Û CL
RUNS
INTO
NIGHT
In memoriam
photo by Thomas Nichols
Acting Dean of Student Affairs Michael Murphy speaks at a memorial service for 
junior ECE major and Sigma Nu brother Michael Golden. Golden died in a Shadyside 
auto accident on November 4.
Centre Plaza quality questioned
vuIm1I0br ONuC o.9b d
planning to replace the wall before sell­
ing the property.
Whether or not the wall actually col­
lapsed or is just being taken down and 
replaced is unclear, Martin said. What is 
important, according to Martin, is that 
Dollar Bank is replacing the wall.
Martin readily admitted that the con­
struction was not of the highest quality. 
“It is not a building of such quality as we 
would build on campus,” he said. He 
attributed this partly to the fact the 
builders were forced to rush to ready 
twenty apartments for students this fall.
Dollar Bank is currently installing 
insulation within certain walls on the 
5th and 6th floors. “It will not affect 
occupancy in those halls,” said Martin,” 
but it does show that [Dollar Bank] is 
working on fixing what needs to be fixed. ”
Dollar Bank is also constructing two ad­
ditional apartments on the 1st floor where 
commercial space was originally planned. 
As Martin points out, this is a plus if the 
University decides to buy the building.
Even though he says the quality of con­
struction is not the best, Martin main­
tains that it is sufficient for its purpose, 
and that it is still in the University’s best 
interests to buy the building. “I feel that 
it can serve students very well for a 
number ofyears — maybe not 75, but for 
quite a while,” he said.
In addition, Martin pointed out that 
the apartments in Centre Plaza are big­
ger and, in many cases, in much better 
condition than the other off-campus 
apartments the University now offers. 
The construction of the building, al­
though not the best, is probably still 
superior to that of other, older off-cam­
pus buildings, he said.
He went on to say that if the building 
was purchased, all apartments would be 
ready by next fall.
Most of the major construction is 
completed; all that remains is the com­
pletion of the interiors of some apart­
ments and the insertion of an upgraded 
fire safety device in all of the apart­
ments.
Even though the apartments are supe­
rior in many ways to other off-campus 
locations, Martin claimed that rates 
would be approximately the same as 
rates for less desirable off-campus loca­
tions.
“The building would be a major plus,” 
Martin said. He went on to say that the 
purchase of Centre Plaza is the best 
alternative available to the University 
to improve off-campus housing.
WHEN
YOUR
«-HOUR
HAY
pro-choice advocates gather for Washington rally
GuIm1I0br ONuC o.9b d
powerand led the crowd in what she
called the “feminist voter’s pledge,” a 
promise not to vote for or support candi­
dates for any office who are not in favor 
of equality for women and safe, legal 
abortions.
She also urged people to call the Penn­
sylvania Senate and urge senators to 
vote against the anti-abortion bill which 
comes up for consideration this week.
Many of the participants in the rally 
were college students. Laura Marshall, a 
student at Skidmore College, said she 
came to the rally because the school was 
organizing the trip and she felt strongly 
about the issue of abortion. Her class­
mate Nicole Ballinger said, “I don’t think 
the government has a right to make my 
body an incubator.”
Freshmen Marcella Rustioni and 
Drexel Doss came to the rally from the 
University of North Carolina at Chapel 
Hill. Rustioni called abortion an impor­
tant right and said, “Every person has to 
stand up for what they believe in.”
“It is every human’s right to have a 
choice. I am not for abortion, but it is my 
right to choose,” said Doss. She said that 
she had an abortion when she was 17.
Rustioni and Doss said they were in 
favor of U.S. legalization of RU 486, a 
French abortion drug, but did not think 
it would be legalized. They did not think 
it should be dispensed as a method of 
birth control.
RU 486 was not discussed at length by 
the speakers at the rally but some people 
in the crowd carried signs supporting it.
Rustioni said that she did not want to 
see the Supreme Court’s 1973 Roe us. 
Wade decision overturned but said that 
if it were overturned, the government 
would have an obligation to give aid to 
mothers and their children.
There was a small pro-life demonstra­
tion — totalling less than 100 people — 
across the street from one side of the 
Lincoln Memorial. Demonstrators from 
the two sides of the abortion issue were 
kept separate from each other by police 
and interaction between the groups was
limited to chants and yells across a street.
Denis Mitchell, a high school student 
from Maryland, admitted that his group 
was dwarfed by the pro-choice rally but 
predicted that the numbers will be in the 
favor of pro-life activists on January 22 
when a major pro-life rally will be held in 
Washington.
Tony Boswell, a student from the same 
school, said he came to the demonstra­
tion because “the killing of babies is 
wrong and against Catholic values.” His 
sister, Michelle Boswell, said that the 
issue was not just a religious one but 
that “our religion has influenced us and 
shown us that [abortion] is wrong.”
Joe Bernardo, a senior at the Univer­
sity of Maryland and president of the 
school’s pro-life organization, said, “I’m 
coming to defend the rights of unborn 
children to live.” He hoped that the states 
would take action to restrict abortions in 
light of the Webster decision.
“I don’t think there are any winners in 
abortion,” he said. “They are all victims, 
the women and the children.”
photo by Jonathan Levy
An estimated 300,000 pro-choice advocates from across the nation gathered in front 
of the Lincoln Memorial Sunday to demand “safe, legal” abortions.

---------------------------------------------------

FORUM
41.Du90b Nbm0NIP mu ptT
Something that happens regu­
larly at other universities but 
rarely at Carnegie Mellon took 
place here last week, and we’re 
pretty happy with it.
The phenomenon is known as 
dialogue, and for a change stu­
dents seemed to be participating 
in it instead of just trying to inflict 
their own points on everyone else.
Last week a CFA student, Jes­
sica Caplan, tried to hold a “per­
formance piece” on the Cut. 
Caplan’s piece was notable in that 
she intended to soil and then burn 
the flags of eight different coun­
tries, among them the United 
States. The ashes of the eight flags 
were to be placed into a globe, 
symbolizing the global unity that 
would result from a lowering of 
nationalistic barriers.
Needless to say, Caplan’s piece 
drew a fairly large crowd, and 
some in the crowd were quite vocal 
about how they didn’t want to see 
the American flag burned. In 
addition to the detractors and a 
number of Caplan’s supporters, 
representatives of the administra­
tion were on hand.
The situation got volatile when 
it became apparent that Caplan 
had soaked her flags in kerosene. 
Assistant Dean of Student Affairs 
Ron Campana told Campus Secu­
rity to shut the performance down 
and disperse the crowd. In the 
end, no flags were burned.
Mayhem erupted when Security 
told people to leave, and there 
were a large number of students
doing what often happens at CMU 
—lots of shouting and little under­
standing.
But in the middle of the confla­
gration, surrounded by a wall of 
photographers and reporters, an 
interesting conversation was held. 
At least four or five people — 
among them Caplan and junior 
Scott Zucker, who protested 
Caplan’s performance — were 
talking, even arguing, about what 
was going on. Sure, the discussion 
was heated; but we submit that it 
was constructive because it was a 
discussion and not just a shouting 
match. People were listening to 
others’ points of view.
A fair deal of debate has been 
held and will be held about the 
event. In the forefront is sure to be 
Campana’s decision to stop the 
performance. On the one hand, 
Caplan had the right to express 
herself; on the other hand, 
Campana’s professed fear for the 
safety of the onlookers has some 
validity — especially given the 
high gusting winds at the time.
There is a lesson to be learned 
from last week’s aborted perform­
ance: Let’s try talking instead of 
yelling. We can passionately be­
lieve in our ideals without getting 
violent; intellectual validity isn’t 
based on the volume of one’s voice.
Debate on Caplan’s performance 
is sure to continue for a while—in 
dorm rooms, in Kiltie, and in 
classes. We’re hoping it will be 
held in the spirit of the discussion 
started last week on the Cut.Good deeds deserve recognition
While stereotypes surrounding 
Greeks abound, it is refreshing to 
see the fraternities and sororities 
at CMU refute the “Animal House” 
image somewhat by engaging in 
philanthropic activities.
It is even more refreshing to 
know that the philanthropy isn’t 
intended to help Greeks improve 
their image on campus; instead, it 
is centered on helping others.
Recent events sponsored by fra­
ternities and sororities show 
impressive, worthwhile efforts to 
sidetrack some of the stereotypi­
cal Greek activities and concen­
trate on more admirable causes.
Phi Kappa Theta and Kappa 
Kappa Gamma raised almost 
$3,000 two weeks ago for the 
Make-A-Wish Foundation by sell­
ing t-shirts and tickets for their 
Dance Marathon. Phi Kappa 
Theta President Ken Stefano esti-
Point
Tartan’s accusations were unfounded
mated that 600 people attended 
the marathon; all the tickets and 
t-shirts were sold. Kappa Alpha 
Theta held its third annual Mr. 
Fraternity event Saturday night 
and raised money to support re­
search for asthma in the name of 
Karin Johnson, the late Theta 
sister who died of asthma.
Other Greeks are also involved, 
like Theta Xi with its Basket 
Bucks, Delta Gamma with its 
Beautiful Eyes Contest, and Pi 
Lambda Phi with its Steel City 
Shoot Out.
It’s nice to walk across the Cut 
and read advertisements for these 
charity events on the Fence, in­
stead of the slogans for parties 
that the Fence typically totes.
Through their recent benevo­
lence, the Greeks have shown that 
they can put some time and a lot of 
energy into helping others.
Editor:
To quote former Student Senate Chair 
Glenn Kornbrek, “I would rather have 
the Student Union misspell my name 
than have The Tartan misrepresent my 
character.” In your article [“Senate 
slashes budgets”], Forum [“Be careful 
with our money”], and cartoon of No­
vember 7, you have not only misrepre­
sented my character by attempting to 
present the Funding and Recognition 
Committee’s rationale for the budget 
reductions as a design to keep the full 
Senate ignorant of the problem, but you 
have also constructed a sensationalized, 
biased, incomplete, and misleading 
summary of the situation based on state­
ments which are not grounded in fact. 
Could this be because the actual infor­
mation which you received did not sup­
port the case which you wished to pres­
ent?
The list of errors in your reporting 
seems endless. First, the job ofthe F&R 
chair is not to keep Senate up-to-date on 
how much money remains to be allo­
cated. Minutes of F&R meetings are 
posted in the Senate office and I am 
available to answer questions, but as 
chair I am not “accountable for” an­
nouncing the amount of money remain­
ing unallocated. And something you’ve 
overlooked here is that distribution of 
the Activities Fee to student groups in 
order to better the campus community 
is the reason that the Fee was imple­
mented in the first place. Is it the opin­
ion of The Tartan that the Activities Fee 
revenue should lie unused in the ac­
count? Judging from The Tartan’s posi­
tion as the fourth largest student sub­
sidy, I imagine that such is not the case. 
Further, the Objectivist Club was not 
told to try to make cooperative arrange­
ments with the Political Speakers’ Fo­
rum Board; Pete Berger volunteered on 
behalf of PSFB to cover some of the Ob­
jectivist Club’s expenses. Next, your 
statement that Spring Carnival “may
)bmmbNP mu mlb xr1muN
have to return to Senate for more money 
later in the year” erroneously implies 
that the possibility of Carnival (or any or­
ganization) having to return for an addi­
tional allocation is a direct result of the 
funding shortage. And while we’re dis­
cussing Spring Carnival, I’d like to point 
out your most glaring error: the $14,000 
(not $10,000 as you reported) needed for 
Carnival’s electricity came from the 
Master Student Activities Fee account, 
NOT from the reserve. The Spring Car­
nival bill is one reason for the shortage 
out of many which I gave to you in our 
interview but which are not reflected or 
discussed in your article or editorial. This 
is a complex situation composed of vari­
ous factors, most of which you have omit­
ted to report. For example, besides the 
previously-mentioned Spring Carnival 
debit, and the error in Warner Hall, defi­
cits were also incurred by many other 
student organizations, of which AB is the 
only one appearing in your article. An­
other prominent cause is that the Spring 
budget subsidy of1989 was $50,000 higher 
than the subsidy of1988. And what of the 
$20,000 loan to The Tartan, of which 
approximately $15,000 is still outstand­
ing?
Another item I would like to discuss is 
your interpretation of my role in this 
situation. In the cartoon, I am depicted 
as saying “Oops...” — clearly intended to 
indicate that I alone am responsible for 
the problems and misunderstandings 
which have occurred, regardless of the 
fact that many causes of the shortage 
occurred before I began acting as chair of 
F&R. In the Forum, you also accuse me, 
as an “elected official,” of “mishandling 
nearly a half million student dollars.” Yet 
neither of these claims are supported by 
anything remotely resembling solid facts.
Finally, you speak of the Student
Senate’s “history of spending money like 
it grows on trees.” I might point out that 
The Tartan has its own history of mis­
quotes, errors, and misrepresentation ol 
facts. Your coverage of the causes of the 
funding shortage was minimal, and you 
ignored many relevant issues and omit­
ted important information in order to 
assign blame. CMU students aren’t 
impressed with or taken in by flashy 
statements, unsubstantiated accusa­
tions, or incorrect “facts.” So, “for good­
ness sake,” next time be sure you know 
what you’re talking about before you g 
to print.
Nicole Brockmann 
Chair, Funding and Recognition
Editor’s reply: As chair of F&R, Brock­
mann is the key Senator responsible foi 
allocating the Activities Fee and assur­
ing that the master Activities Fee accouni 
does not run out of money, although th 
entire Senate is ultimately responsibh 
for the fund.
In the specific instance of The Tartan’i 
loan, which allowed us to purchase 
high-quality laser printer, Brockmann 
misstated the amount of the loan i 
$20,000. The actual amount was $17,000; 
The Tartan has not missed a payment, 
and our financial projections put us well 
ahead of our payment schedule within a 
year. In the long run, the printer will 
significantly reduce The Tartan’s costs, 
and therefore reduce our future subsi­
dies.
Finally, Brockmann incorrectly as­
sumed that it was she who was dep 
in the cartoon accompanying the related 
editorial.
Broclimann’s opinion of The Tartan’s 
reputation has no bearing on Senate’s 
allocation of funds. However, when we do 
print a factual error, we acknowledge the 
. error in a box located on page two. In the 
case of the Senate budget story, we stand 
firmly behind our reporting.
s0I vuImNuD Lb.RbI1I9 mlb puIPm1m0m1uI
THE TARTAN
xr1muNUCUpl1bOnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnkuLr8 M1bNvb
t.I.91I9 xr1muNnnnnnnnnnnnnnHmbL.Nm :n )bg1Ib
X0P1IbPP t.I.9bNnnnnnnnnnnnnnw0PP HbD19C.I
fbLP xr1muNnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnt1vl.bD :n xLbruPl
qPPmn fbLP xr1muNnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnn!.NNuI Yn )bg8
!uN0C xr1muNPnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnH0b qeN.CP
4uI M1vRbmm
!b.m0NbP xr1muNnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnKbg1I X.NIb8
qPPmn !b.m0NbP xr1muNPnnnnnnnnnxN1v tvqI.DDbI
4bEmbN in Kue.8.Pl1
HouNmP xr1muNnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnK.N8I H1Dg.
qPPmn HouNmP xr1muNnnnnnnnnnnnnnnK.m1b p0DebNmPuI
41gbNP1uIP xr1muNnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnt1vl.bD in wuPb
qPPmn 41gbNP1uIP xr1muNPnnnnHmbolbI sD1vRbN 
4.LI XNuPuIPR1
Mlumu xr1muNnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnniluC.P f1vluDP
4.NRNuuC t.I.9bNnnnnnnnnnnnni.r 4uvRPm.rbN
qNm xr1muNnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnsN.Im p.NC1vl.bD
qPPmn qNm xr1muNnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnY1DD1.C pn H.eN.C
t.9./1Ib xr1muNnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnn:0r8 k.N.e0Nr.
qPPmn t.9./1Ib xr1muNnnnnnn:bII1ObN KbNPmb1I
4uPP1bN )1mbN.N8 xr1muN nnnnplN1PmuolbN K0Pl
4uPP1bN 4bP19I xr1muNnnnnnnnnnnnHuuUiP0 )bI9
MNur0vm1uI t.I.9bNnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnY1DD1.C X0NR8
p.DbIr.N t.I.9bNnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnf.ml.I !0DDbNmuI
puo8 t.I.9bNnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnf.m.D1b MbmbNPuI
puImN1e0m1I9 xr1muNP 
K.ND Hn X.NIl.Nm :uI.ml.I )bg8
:.CbP Xn xIrNbP :ub8 )8II tuI.vu
40Pm1I !N./1bN :uPl 4n w0ebI
Carnegie Mellon University’s student newspaper since 1906
The Tartan is Iho studonl newspaper ol Carnegie Mellon Univer­sity. II is a weekly newspaper publishod by students during the fall and spring semestors, at no cost to members of the University community. Il is printed by Western Pennsylvania Priming. Inc. Subscriptions are available lor the semester or academicyear. The Editorials appearing at the beginning ol the opinion section are the official opinion ol The Tartan editorial board. Columns are the opinions of individual authors. Letters to the Editor are opinions of authors who aro usually, but not nocessarily members ol the University community. A letter intended lor publication must be signed and include the writer's address and phone number for verification. Names will be withheld upon request; The Tartan re­serves the right to condense or reject any letter or column. Copy-
right © 19B9by The Tartan. The Tartan editorial board reserves the right to withhold from publication any copy it deems unlit for pub­lication.
Office: Skibo 50 (412) 268-2111 
Mailing address: The Tartan / Box 17 /
Carnegie Mellon University/
Pittsburgh, PA 15213-3890 
Funded by the Activities Fee.
All rights reserved.
Library of Congress ISSN #: 0890-3107.
Editor:
The Second Amendment, which grants 
the right of free citizens to keep and 
bear arms, is the keystone in the arch of 
liberties granted in the Bill of Rights of 
the United States Constitution, primar­
ily because it might someday be called 
upon to serve as the ultimate preserver 
of its nine kinsmen. Tragically, amidst
false hopes of crime depletion and preser­
vation of innocent life, this most sacred 
privilege is being challenged in congress 
this fall. Specifically, two bills, proposed 
by Senators Metzenbaum and DeConcini, 
propose a ban primarily on semiauto­
matic rifles, such as the Colt M-16, the 
highly publicized AK-47, the M-14, and 
hundreds of other weapons. Proponents
of anti-gun legislation argue that these 
weapons are unnecessary for civilian use.
These opinions are inaccurate, for it is 
this particular weapon design that will 
serve to protect and uphold the freedoms 
outlined in the Constitution. “What is 
this gun nut talking about? Why do nor-( 
mal citizens need to possess machine- 
vuIm1I0br uI o.9b ,
X0NI1I9 mlb OD.9 P.ObD8 Iu D.09l1I9 C.mmbN
Editor:
The recent events surrounding the 
“flag burning” incident at the Cut on 
last Tuesday have resulted in inquiries 
to my office on proper safety practices 
for burning the flag. I have researched 
the known literature and suggest im­
plementation of the following safety 
controls or practices if anyone intends 
to bum the flag:
• Burning of the flag is best done in the 
shower. With the shower turned on, 
there is a lower potential for flame 
spread.
•If you are burning multiple flags, it 
is best not to stand in the middle of all 
the flags. Jessica and her'cohorts dem­
onstrated this incorrect procedure very 
aptly.
•Burning of the flag near a bunch of 
“rednecks” in not recommended, as the 
resulting trip and fall hazards can se­
verely damage your health.
• Burning of flags composed of synthetic 
materials requires an EPA permit and 
use of a respirator. Most synthetics will 
produce hydrogen cyanide and hydro­
chloric acid vapors when burned.
• Burning of the flag is best done when 
the “burner” is draped in it. That way the 
hot air from the burner can create a more 
even combustion temperature.
• Burning of the flag should not be done 
to others when they are wrapped in it. 
This is especially important for the more 
patriotic types such as George Bush and 
Jesse Jackson. For you more liberal types, 
this may seem an acceptable practice, but 
the EPA has not yet determined what 
category of waste product George Bush or 
Jesse Jackson are, and you could end up 
endangering the environment. Ifit’s Dan 
Quayle, that’s acceptable because not 
much of anything will be released to the 
atmosphere.
•Burning of the flag should only be
done under the direct supervision of in­
dividuals 40-45 years old. Most people 
between 40-45 years of age have the 
appropriate experience and it brings back 
great memories for them.
The burning of any combustible mate­
rial in a manner that could potentially 
affect human health and safety is unac­
ceptable. Just as freedom of speech does 
not allow yelling “Fire!” in a crowded 
theatre, burning of flags soaked in g 
line is simply too dangerous to approve.
In expressingyour constitutional rights 
(until George and the current Supreme 
Court justices take them away), choose a 
means/method which says somethin 
worthwhile and at the same time won't 
hurt another human being (that include: 
Dan).
Peter Collopy 
Director, Environmental 
Health and Safety

---------------------------------------------------

ilb i.Nm.I h p.NIb91b tbDDuI h dF fugbCebN dy,y
41vb’ 1IG0Nbr mlNu09l 
HmbO.IuZP 1IPbIP1m1g1m8
Editor:
About six weeks ago, four 
guys with some musical ability 
and a like for vintage rock got 
together and formed a band 
called The Tumbling Dice. We 
played Scotland Yard a few 
weeks ago to good reviews, and 
were excited to receive a call 
inviting us to play at the Phi 
Kap/Kappa Kappa Gamma 
Dance-A-thon.
Since this was the first dance 
we’d ever been asked to play, 
we wanted to make sure that 
things went right. We typed up 
a list of songs that we like to 
play, and submitted it almost a 
full week before the show, giv­
ing the organizers plenty of time 
to decide what we should play. 
We were especially concerned 
as, while we play some rock 
that is danceable, we don’t play 
“dance music.” A few days be­
fore the show we were told there 
wasn’t really a problem with 
the music we selected.
On the night of the show, we 
showed up four hours early to 
set up and give the best show 
we knew how, especially since 
the band had put in so much 
effort preparing for the dance. 
The DJ’s were playing “dance 
music” until it was our turn to 
go on at ten. Ten o’clock rolled 
around and we started playing 
—the audience appreciated us, 
and by the nature of the music 
we play, many seemed happy 
just to standaround and listen, 
occasionally dancing as we 
played more up-tempo music.
Suddenly, about half way 
through our set, [PkiKap presi­
dent] Ken Stefano walked up to 
me and said “So, when are you 
gonna play some DANCE mu­
sic?”, followed by “Play one more 
song and we’re going back to 
the DJ.” I showed him our song 
list and asked, “What would 
you like to hear?” to which he 
said, “I don’t care —just make 
it a good one,” and walked off.
We proceeded to honor his re­
quest, playing one more song 
and stopping, but to the band’s 
surprise the DJ didn’t start 
playing. Since nothing was hap­
pening, we played a two more 
songs. At this point one of the 
organizers asked us to play 
three more songs, which we did, 
and things went well.
After we finished playing, 
people complimented us on our 
playing, but we were still con­
fused, angered, and hurt by Ken 
Stefano’s insensitive and cal­
lous remarks. Our band gave 
almost a full week’s notice as to 
what we were prepared to play, 
but Ken waited until halfway 
through our act to complain 
about our music. When he did 
complain, he showed no inter­
est in helping us (“Just make it 
a good one”).
As we left the dance, some 
people who knew us said that 
we put on the best performance 
of our short career, but thanks 
to Ken, we came away feeling 
that it was our worst. It seems 
especially ironic because every­
one else we came in contact 
with at the event was kind, con­
siderate and helpful — we 
would gladly work with any of 
them in the future.
Robert Smith 
Greg Coughlin 
Mark Lemkin 
Geoff Cox
aka “The Tumbling Dice”
Guns essential to freedom for many reasons
continued from page 6
guns? many of you might be ask­
ing yourselves. The answer is 
twofold. However, first, it is nec­
essary to dispel the notion that 
this hot “semiautomatic assault- 
rifle” business involves machine- 
guns. Semiautomatic assault- 
rifles are simple weapons with a 
military design; one shot will yield 
one bullet, not the stream of fire 
commonly associated with the 
weapons. These are basically 
hunting rifles with a different 
look. The import and sale of 
machine guns is already strictly 
regulated.
Anyway, aside from the Ameri­
can Revolution, the Civil War, 
and possibly the Mexican-Ameri- 
can War, the United States has 
never battled on its home turf. In 
the nineteenth century, this was 
due to the simple fact that there 
were no countries whose location 
or military prowess allowed rela­
tively easy access and oppurtu- 
nity for an invasion of American 
soil.
However, in the latter half of 
the twentieth century, conven­
tional war on American soil has 
been forestalled not only by the 
fact that the United States has 
maintained a powerful army, but 
also because there are over
200,000,000 firearms owned by 
civilians (National Rifle Associa­
tion Study, 1989). Granted, many 
are shotguns, bolt-action rifles, 
and handguns, but there are 
millions of semiautomatic assault- 
rifles. No enemy in their right 
mind would consider an invasion 
when faced with so large a body of 
well-equipped people.
Second, and more realistic, is 
the fact that if civilians are de­
nied access to technologically 
advanced weapons, the United 
States army, under a strong 
leader, could militarize the United
A Higher 
Standard 
in Computer 
Software
Technology
iZBBr POSTSCRIPT
Adobe Systems Incorporated is one of the most progressive companies in the 
Silicon Valley. As we continue to move into the future, we’re challenging the rules, 
expanding the boundaries of software technology beyond their current levels. We 
haven't settled for simply defining the industry, in fact, we've developed a standard 
of our own.
A Member, Technical 
Staff
BSCS, MSCS
To date, over 60 manufacturers have 
made our PostScript® language a part of 
their printers and there are more than 
4000 software products that support it. 
And our Display PostScript® system and 
Adobe Type Manager"' extend our 
PostScript language into the next genera­
tion of electronic printing and display 
systems.
Adobe has also developed Adobe Illustra­
tor 88”, a sophisticated PostScript lan­
guage application for both PC and 
Macintosh computing environments, 
and we recently introduced TrueForm"1, 
a forms processing software package for 
the Macintosh. Meanwhile, our Font 
Development Group is aggressively 
pursuing additions to our already im­
pressive typeface library.
Each of our employees plays a critical 
role in our continued success, profitabil­
ity and market leadership. We’re all 
proud of what we've accomplished. 
We've created the market, established 
the standard, and made an historical 
impact on the electronic printing and 
publishing industry.
We know you have standards and expec­
tations of your own. If you'd like to be 
part of our continuing search for excel­
lence, we'd like to meet with you and 
discuss these opportunities in detail.
? Computer Scientist 
PhD.CS
You'll be working on the design and 
development of PostScript language en­
hancements for the next generation of 
electronic printing and display systems.
As a member of our software engineering 
team, you'll play a key role in the ongo­
ing design and implementation of large 
software systems. "C" programming ex­
perience and familiarity with Unix are 
desirable.
? Hardware Design 
Engineer 
BSEE
You'll play a key role in digital systems 
design of new controllers for advanced 
laser printers and phototypesetters.
A working knowledge of 680X0 micro­
processors, schematic entry systems, pro­
grammable logic devices and Unix is 
desirable.
We will be on campus on 
November 30th 1989.
Adobe Systems Incorporated offers an 
outstanding compensation package 
which includes excellent salaries, stock 
option/quarterly bonus plans and com­
pany paid benefits. If you miss us, 
please send a resume to: Adobe Systems 
Incorporated, Dept. CM, P.O. Box 
7900, Mt. View, CA 94039. We are an 
Equal Opportunity Employer.
PostScript, Display PostScript, the PostScript logo and the 
Adobe logo are registered trademarks of Adobe Systems 
Incorporated.TrueForm and Adobe Illustrator 88 are
Trademarks of Adobe Systems Incorporated. All other 
products or brand names are trademarks or registered 
trademarks of their respective holders. ©1989 Adobe 
Systems Incorporated. **Unix is a registered trademark of 
AT&T Bell Labs
Adobe Systems 
^ * Incorporated
States, or attempt a coup, revok- 
ingthe Constitution; proponents 
of liberty would have no means of 
upholding their freedoms. This 
is what Adolph Hitler did with 
the help of a well-armed Nazi 
army. After seizing power, he 
eliminated all oppisition. His 
secret police, the Gestapo, ar­
rested hundreds of thousands of 
political opponents, replacing 
them wiyh loyal Nazi’s. Poten­
tial usurpers recognize that they 
could never accomplish such a 
feat in the midst of a well armed 
public. The very fact that a large, 
armed public exists helps to safe­
guard the nation. Ideal govern­
ment should, in the event that it 
becomes insensitive to the 
masses, be subject to revolution, 
be it peaceful (hopefully), or vio­
lent.
In countries run by dictators 
such as Fidel Castro and Idi 
Amin, however, this armed pub­
lic did not exist. However un­
happy citizens might have been, 
they had no means of forcing 
political reform. The autocratic 
rulers were able to force their 
will on the people without any 
resistance. Just as some believe 
a woman should have the option 
of abortion, citizens should be 
able to decide whether they think 
it necessary to own a semiauto­
matic weapon.
One might say that the anal­
ogy is bad, for abortion doesn’t 
threaten society. The fact is that 
neither do Assault rifles. They 
are not the choice weapon for 
criminals, and even if they were, 
declaring them illegal would not 
affect the ease with which a crimi­
nal could obtain one; it would 
only restrict the law abiding 
public’s right to bear arms. Out­
lawing all firearms is an impos­
sible solution, for again, there- 
are over 200,000,000 firearms in
the United States.
Want to make America safe? 
Want to disarm the criminal 
element? Then spend your dol­
lars not on anti-gun propaganda, 
but on correcting “revolving door 
justice.” Merely defining more 
stringent punishments for crimes 
committed while armed won’t do 
the trick; carry out sentences! 
Let criminals know that armed 
conflict with peaceful Americans 
won’t be tolerated. Spend your 
money on instructing the public 
on the safety precautions neces­
sary to prevent accidental deaths 
involving firearms, rather than 
ineffective laws and courts. Let 
the criminals know that they will 
be punished for breaking the law.
Outlawing semiautomatic 
assault rifles is a step in the 
wrong direction. It won’t curb
criminal activity, it won’t save lives; 
it will only restrict the law abiding 
a citizen’s right to be free in Amer­
ica. Pick up a copy of American 
Rifleman and read the section 
titled, “The Armed Citizen.” See 
exactly how guns can actually save 
an innocent life.
Today they’ll want our semiauto­
matic assault-rifles. Tomorrow, it 
might be our scoped hunting rifles 
(labeled “sniper” rifles), and soon 
after, our handguns will be gone.
A closing remark: despite the fact 
that I am a gun collector and a 
sports shooter, if I could wave a 
magic wand and cause every gun to 
disappear from the face of the earth, 
I would give up my right to bear 
arms and do it without hesitation.
Craig Gottlieb 
Freshman Economics
Connection between sex and egg rolls isn’t there
Editor:
There were a large 
number of posters 
around campus adver­
tising last Tuesday’s 
eggroll sale by the Asian 
Students Association.
Are we unaware of 
some subtle connection 
between eggrolls and 
cartoons of partially 
clad women which jus­
tifies putting them on 
the same page?
What’s next? Posters 
of shiny new buggies 
with naked women 
draped over them?
Gloria T. Chen, E.C.E. 
Michael Witbrock,s.c.s.
egg IPriv ateMl
¦CtiesDfty, NOu>ecDBGR 7 -- SK1BC ,
CO 2:30pcr> ONI.y II
Example of poster advertising sale.
THE ALUMNI ASSOCIATION 
PRESENTS 
CANDLELIGHT DINNERS
THE EVENING'S THEME 
AH DREW CARHEGIE'S BIRTHDAY
A BEAUTIFUL EVENING WITH WONDERFUL FOOD, 
CANDLELIGHT AND SOFT MUSIC
ON FRIDAY. NOVEMBER 17,1989
THE FACULTY DINING ROOM WILL BE ESPECIALLY DECORATED FOR 
AN EVENING OF ELEGANT DINING.
SERVING A CATERED MENU OF: 
'TOSSED ROMAINE
WITH CUMCUMBERS, CHERRY TOMATOES AND POPPY SEED DRESSING 
•ROASTED CORNISH HENS 
WITH APPLE Ai.MOMD STUFFING AND WINE SAUCE 
: 'WHOLE GREEN:BEANS :
¦ "PARSLEY NEW POTATOES 
; ; :;*WARM BISCUITS 
: : “WARM APPLE.PIE A LA MODE
* ASSORTED BEVERAGES
THE COST IS ONLY $6.00 PER PERSON 
THE REST OF THE TAB WILL BE ON THE ALUMNI ASSOCIATION
THE RESERVATION DEADLINE HAS BEEN EXTENDED TO 
WEDNESDAY, NOVEMBER 15, 1989
PLEASE STOP BY THE ALUMNI OFFICE 
5017 FORBES AVENUE, SECOND FLOOR 
FROM 9:00 AM - 4:00 PM 
TO MAKE YOUR RESERVATIONS!!

---------------------------------------------------

ilb i.Nm.I h p.NIb91b tbDDuI h dF fugbCebN dy,y
RERCH FDRTHEBEST
pulbI L1DD C.Rb pu0Iv1D bgbI CuNb D0r1vNu0PHERBLOCK’S CARTOON
SPECIAL OFFER
h )bmN.Pbm Hm.Ir.Nr VIPm.Im 
)bmmbN1I9 OuN WID8 |znyanLOCATIONS:
Wean Hall
Room 4603 
X3729
8:30 am to 7:00 pm
University
Printing
Building F BOM 
X2970
8:30 am to 5:00 pm
Mellon institute
Ml Room 349 
x5114
8:30 am to 5:00 pm
Student Price 
Based on 20# paper 
81/2x11 size
You’ve got to wonder if Dan 
Cohen knew what he was getting 
himself into by getting elected to 
Pittsburgh City Council.
I hope he didn’t think he was 
joining a responsible group of 
legislators elected to look out for 
the best interests of the city of 
Pittsburgh. If so, I pity the person 
who has to tell him he just joined 
the greatest clown show since 
Ringling Brothers-Barnum & 
Bailey.
My favorite city council inci­
dent happened a couple of years 
ago. I do not remember the names 
of the council members involved, 
but apparently the chairman of 
council felt that another council­
man was becoming too excited in 
one of his speeches and attempted 
to gavel him down. When he was 
unsuccessful, the chairman fined 
him, prompting his colleague to 
tell him to take his gavel and go 
use it to crack walnuts.
The list of Pittsburgh council
:uI.ml.I )bg8
members who have contributed 
to the shame of their body is long 
and distinguished. Other famous 
moments in council history in­
clude Michelle Madoffs entire 
mayoral campaign (which she 
started by comparing Mayor 
Sophie Masloff to a lump of clay 
and ended by dropping out of the 
race on the spur of the moment 
without telling even her closest 
advisors) and virtually everything 
Eugene “Jeep” DePasquale has 
ever said or done.
Recently, however, the council 
members most in the news have 
been Ben Woods and Otis Lyons.
Woods, of course, was convicted 
last week for taking everything 
but the bathroom tiles in the men’s 
room of the City/County Build­
ing.
I guess I have to admire his
initiative in getting himself into 
that much trouble. Anybody who 
manages to push the Steelers off 
the front page of the Pittsburgh 
papers really deserves some re­
spect.
But it seems to me that Woods 
violated the first rule of corrupt 
public officials — he got caught.
Lyons, by contrast, appears to 
be on the right side of the law, 
although perhaps the low end of 
the I.Q. scale.
He first drew my attention last 
year when he changed his vote on 
the proposed gay rights bill from 
yes to no, effectively killing it. It 
struck me as ironic that the only 
black member of council would be 
the one to cast the deciding vote in 
defeating a civil rights bill. But I 
figured then that he was just a 
run-of-the-mill political dolt.
Two weeks ago, however, Lyons 
showed that he deserves a special 
place in the city council Hall of 
Fame when he announced that
incest is a biblically sanctioned 
activity.
He was quoted in the Pittsburgh 
Post-Gazette as saying that “some 
of the great leaders in the Bible 
married their sisters,” and “The 
incest between Lot and his two 
daughters was the saving of two 
nations.”
Putting together these two 
chapters from the book Otis’ Guide 
to Good Sex, Lyons’ position seems 
to be that it is more appropriate 
for a man to have sex with his 
eight-year-old daughter than with 
a consenting adult man.
Well, ready or not, I guess you’re 
now the newest nut in city coun­
cil, Dan Cohen. I offer you my 
congratulations, my best wishes 
for a successful council career, 
and a piece of advice—watch out 
for the guy with the gavel.
Jonathan Levy is a senior biol­
ogy major and a first year SUPA 
master’s student.
Yb .Nb D.vR1I9 CuNb ml.I ObC.DbP .Nu0Ir lbNb
U. S. involvement with Nicaragua is still necessary
There is one issue on campus 
that I really don’t understand. 
All the guys complain that there 
aren’t enough girls. Sure, the 
male/female ratio makes this fact 
conspicuous. If I were to say that 
there aren’t enough guys, people 
would probably laugh in my face. 
Well, I don’t care. There aren’t 
enough guys!
Yes, believe it or not, it’s true. 
There is a lack of male compan­
ionship here. It seems as though 
every guy I have met here is ei­
ther a little out of my range for 
reasons I would rather not dis­
cuss, does not interest me all that 
much, is not all that interested in 
me, is not all that interested in a 
relationship, or is just plain al­
ready taken. Boy, it sure can get
MNbmm8 PuuI
“Slow days are a routine curse 
in the journalism business.... But 
every once in a while the balance 
will tip all at once, jamming eight 
or nine big ones in the hamper 
before people like Rather and 
Brokaw can even get to work, and 
by sundown they are all getting 
crazier.”
— Hunter S. Thompson
That quote came to mind after 
hearing the news this week, and 
feeling the pace of events that 
carried it along.
Lately, reality really boggles the 
mind. A week and a half after 
Hoenecker resigns, East Ger­
many is coming apart. The par­
liament resigns, Krenz can’t con­
trol the country, the wall is open
— for once the people may be in
H0b qeN.CP
lonely around here, so all you guys 
need not loudly express your dis­
content —I know exactly how you 
feel.
I thought that going to a college 
where females are outnumbered 
would have some better effects on 
my social life than did my high 
school environment. I still have 
yet to be shown this is true. Don’t 
getme wrong— Iloveithere, and 
have found some of the greatest 
people in the world. It is just that 
these greatest people don’t neces­
sarily have the time to be with 
me.
I always wondered if something
4uI M1vRbmm
charge. One of the last bastions of 
real, hard-line communism just 
disintegrated in front of our eyes, 
and all it took was the will of the 
people.
Stated in the lowest common 
denominator, the people of East 
Germany realized that things 
don’t have to be the way they’ve 
been the past few years, since 
WWII in particular. As the only 
real communist success story for 
years and years, East Germany 
began to hit hard times in the 
mid-seventies. Combine this with 
the effects of the trend toward 
more general freedom being es­
poused in the Communist Bloc,
was wrong with me, since I don’t 
automatically attract members of 
the opposite sex. Could it be that 
I’m too skinny? too fat? too short? 
too flat? too loud? too mute? too 
preppy? too cute? I wouldn’t be 
surprised if it is because of my 
pathetic poetry....
You would be amazed at the 
friends I have: About 80% of them 
are guys. But it goes no further 
than that. I can be very unlucky. 
It’s not that I’m not picky or any­
thing. However, I don’t appreci­
ate guys who blow smoke in my 
face, causing me to seek less con­
taminated air. I also don’t care for 
those who try too hard to be some­
thing they are not. I think it is 
best to just be yourself. Speaking 
of which, maybe the guys don’t
constant exposure, through TV 
and radio, to the relative success 
of the West, and the tension of 
having two so radically different 
societies next to each other, and 
there is partying atop the wall.
What really gets me is the speed. 
Poland and Hungary you could 
foresee. Poland never worked, and 
from a mere practical viewpoint 
something had to be done to keep 
the country afloat. Hungary would 
change slowly. After the crushing 
of the ’68 uprising, experiments 
in state-sponsored socialism were 
allowed by the Hungarian gov­
ernment, and by Moscow, as long 
as the experiments didn’t com­
promise the country as part of the 
Warsaw Pact.
But East Germany, Comm­
unism’s only success story? East
want me to be my fun-loving, 
sometimes-sarcastic self. If they 
like me the way I am, I sure wish 
they would tell me, so I wouldn’t 
have to keep acting differently 
around them, trying to see what 
gets them to keep talking to me. 
It can be a real pain not being 
yourself.
But you know what? It really 
doesn’t matter anymore because 
I just don’t have the time. I am too 
busy during the week, and on the 
weekends I like to get the sleep I 
didn’t get when I should have. I 
know that someday somebody will 
show up. Maybe next year, huh? 
Only time will tell.
Sue Abrams is a freshman pro­
fessional writing major.
Germany, the athlete factory, one 
of the most conservative coun­
tries in the Eastern Bloc, one of 
the tightest run, seemingly one of 
the most together?
Yes, boys and girls, it happened, 
and we were here to see it. The 
phrase “historic moment” is 
hugely overused — the ’89 Who 
tour was a Kodak moment maybe, 
but not historic — but this is his­
toric. This is, in addition to every­
thing else, nothing less than the 
dismantling of the last of the colo­
nial empires.
The Western nations dissolved 
their empires, by free will or not, 
relatively quickly after WWII. But 
the Soviets kept theirs, partly out 
of a perceived need to keep a buffer 
between the motherland and any 
continued on page 9
4.gb HvlL.Nm/
Contra Aid Must Continue!!!
A brusque statement indeed, 
but I believe that military aid and 
assistance should be re-instated 
to the Nicaraguan Freedom Fight­
ers as soon as possible. The cur­
rent item in the news is that 
Daniel Ortega, the epitome of 
scum in Central America, will 
allow free and unhindered elec­
tions this coming February with­
out any interference by his San- 
danista forces — if the Freedom 
Fighters disband.
HYPOCRISY! The Sandanista 
government previously claimed 
that free elections would begin 
whether or not the Freedom Fight­
ers disbanded. Is Ortega begin­
ning to realize that he hasn’t a 
chance in the elections? I think 
so.
After ten years of brutal op­
pression by Ortega, the Nicara­
guans want him out. To this, 
Ortega claimed that the Freedom 
Fighters murdered 44 individu­
als in northern Nicaragua. How­
ever, civilians who witnessed the 
killings claim that it was the San- 
danistas who murdered the civil­
ians. Interesting, isn’t it? Why d( 
I get this feeling that Ortega 
doesn’t want to allow free elec­
tions and cede his power to a 
Freely elected individual? Hmm
Ah yes, I think that it is now 
time to thank our incredibly pa 
thetic Democratic Congress foi 
its truly inept decision to pass thf 
Bolland Amendment a while back 
Notice how its decision is screw 
ing us now. Thanks Tip O’Neill 
speaker of the house at that time 
Unfortunately, Tip is rather bus) 
now; he’s popping in and out o 
luggages in motel commercials, i 
rather stimulating job.
I have one question: why is it 
that our friends (Left-wing anti 
U.S.-get-out-of-Central-Americs 
freaks) persistently protest U.S 
involvement and do nothing but 
squeak about marxist Ortega an( 
his cohorts’involvement? Hmmm
Dave Schwartz is a freshman 
IM major.
mlb L.DDP L1DD vuCb m0CeD1I9 ruLI
h xEobN1bIvb mlb N.I9b .Ir 
«0.D1m8 uO )bmN.Pbm i8ou9N.ol8 
U ugbN -a' m8obO.vbPn
Store Hours: Monday thru Friday - 8:45 - 5:30 Saturday - 9:30 - 5:30v•goo8 & Co. Inc. 323 Boulevard of the Allies Pittsburgh, PA 15222 (412)281-2133
"MY APPROACH TO C0N6RESS HAS BEEN BASEP ON A BIPARTISAN EFFORT"
h fu D1C1m.m1uIPn fu O1Ib oN1Imn
¦ !xTxxDO1 )bmN.Pbm iUHl1Nm 
L•M0Nvl.Pb uO .I8 Q PlmP uO 
)bmN.Pbm VIPm.Im uN 
)bmN.9N.ol1v. )bmmbN1I9
h :0Pm PluL 8u0N g.D1r Pm0rbIm 
Vn4n .Ir e08 Pm.Ir.Nr 1IPm.Im 
DbmmbN1I9 OuN |znya

---------------------------------------------------

ilb i.Nm.I h p.NIb91b tbDDuI h dF fugbCebN dy,yy
Will Reagan run Radio City for the Japanese?
Art Buchwald
All right, so the name “Radio 
City Tojo Hall” doesn’t grab you 
nor is the Kamikaze Ice Skat­
ing Rink at Mitsubishi Center on 
fifth Avenue your cup of tea. Don’t 
get mad at the Japanese. Every­
one has a right to be in the real 
estate business these days.
When the news of the 
Rockefeller Center sale was an­
nounced last week, each family in 
the United States dealt with it in 
jts own particular way. Nancy 
Sharp stared at Peter reading the 
evening news and then threw a 
lamp at the television screen. 
«What is going on?” she screamed.
Her husband, Fred, was fiddling 
with his Sony VCR, mixing him­
self a daiquiri with a Toyota 
blender and thinking of when to 
get his Nissan tuned up. Nancy’s 
cry brought him back to reality.
“Why would the Rockefellers do 
that to us?”
“It’s just business,” Fred said, 
‘if they didn’t buy it, the Ethiopi­
ans would.”
; Nancy protested, “It shouldn’t 
be allowed. It’s part of our na­
tional heritage, like Disneyland 
or Sea World.”
"You have to understand, my 
dear, that everything in America 
is for sale. People must have 
money if they are to achieve hap­
piness.”
She shook her head. “Not the 
Rockefellers—they’re filthy rich.” 
. “That’s what you think,” Fred 
{old her. “Did it ever occur to you 
that there could be many poor 
Rockefellers scattered among the 
wealthy ones?”
Nancy remained unconvinced. 
“Rockefellers can’t be poor. That’s 
why they’re called Rockefellers.” 
“Well, smarty, I happen to know 
that there are Rockefellers who
are as poor as church mice. They 
would just as soon have a basket 
of Japanese yen as see th eir name 
on a building in New York. The 
word on the street is that the 
church mice forced David and 
Laurance Rockefeller to sell every­
thing to the Japanese, including 
Bryant Gumbel, Jane Pauley and 
Deborah Norville.”
Fred’s wife was distraught. 
“Rockefeller Center is our shrine, 
the same as St. Peter’s or Mecca. 
It doesn’t belong to the Rockefell­
ers —- it belongs to you and me.” 
Fred put his hand on his wife’s 
shoulder. “Don’t worry, I’m sure 
that the Japanese have ice skat­
ers just as good as ours.”
“Why did the Japanese have to 
be the ones to buy the Center?” 
“They have a lot more money 
than Nicaragua. Even Donald 
Trump is too strapped to close a 
deal for the place.”
“How come the J apanese are so 
rich?"
“It’s simple,” Fred replied. 
“Everything you see in this room 
was manufactured by them. 
Thanks to us Tokyo is drowning 
in U.S. dollars. But man can’t live 
on dollars alone.
The Japanese then transfer the 
money back here and purchase 
American real estate with the 
same dollars. The whole world is 
buying up this country with our 
money.”
“Before I agree to all this,” 
Nancy Sharp said, “I want to know 
who is going to run Radio City 
Music Hall."
“I hear a rumor that Ronald 
Reagan has been asked.”
“Why?”
“Reagan just got back from 
Japan. You don’t think that he 
went over there for nothing, do 
you?”
Art Buchwald is a syndicated 
columnist of the LA. Times.
History requires the White House to make a decision
vuIm1I0br ONuC o.9b z
further encroaches, partly out of 
a sense of pride in Soviet military 
power, and for other reasons too 
complex to chronicle in the space 
I have. Gorbachev’s cleaning 
house, and the natural ravages of 
time, have cleaned out the old 
generation enough to allow that 
mindset to decay, to allow it to 
free up a little.
This whole freedom thing cre­
ates interesting problems in 
Europe, aside from the obvious 
tension it injects into East/West 
relations. Look at a map — 
Hungary and Poland are headed 
towards enormous relative free­
dom when compared to the coun­
tries around them. Add East 
Germany to the equation, and 
you effectively isolate Czechoslo­
vakia as a Stalinist corridor be­
tween truly, or relatively, free 
nations.
Czechoslovakia is not so much 
a country as a collection of differ­
ent ethnic groups held together 
by the yoke of a strict communist 
government. It is in a pressure 
sandwich, with no relief in sight.
And, freedom for Czechoslovakia 
could have the same effects as 
dropping an agitated Coke can 
six stories. Boom, and watch out 
below.
And now, time for the ever­
present question: What is George 
going to do about this?
And now, the ever-present 
answer: nothing.
Good or bad, we are presented 
with an enormous historical 
oppurtunity, and we have a presi­
dent too afraid to move for fear of 
pissing people off. George’s prob­
lem is that he wants to be 
everybody’s friend. Our problem 
is that he can’t. It's time for action 
with no historical precedent.
George has done a good job of 
avoiding decision so far, having 
taken action only on restricting 
your freedom of expression, i.e., 
the flag burning amendment. A 
crisis is staring George in the 
face. It's time for an honest-to- 
God decision from the White 
House.
Don Pickett is an H&SS fresh­
man.
RESEARCH PAPERS 
19,278 to choose from - all subjects 
Order Catalog Today with Visa/MC or COD 
Toll Free Hotline: 800-351-0222 
Or rush $2.00 to: Research Assistance
11322 Idaho Are. .»206-SN Loi Angele«, CA 90025
WORSHIP WITH QUAKERS
You arc invited to join us in our 
silent worship 
and our witness for 
pcace and social justice
10:30 am Sundays
¦4836 Ellsworth Avenue
RELIGIOUS SOCIETY OF 
FRIENDS
For Jnfornation call 683-2669
Check out the CMU Explorers Club to learn how 
you can really go wild!
Fall Activities: rock climbing, caving, hiking, 
sailing, kayaking, skydiving, and more.
If you are interested in any of these activities 
stop by one of our weekly meetings. Beginners 
are welcome!
CMU Explorers Club
Funded by Student Activities Fee
TAKE OUTS 
GYRO 
FALAFEL 
SPINACH PIES 
HUMMUS 
SALADS
MIDDLE EASTERN-GREEK DELI
GROCERY 
PITA BREAD 
FETA CHEESE 
GREEK OLIVES/OLIVE OIL 
BASMATI 
AND MUCH MORE!621-8110
CATERING SERVICE 
PARTY TRAYS 
CALL FOR INFORMATION
FREE DELIVERY
MON.FRI-11 AM TO 2 PM 
MINIMUM ORDER $6.00
LIMITED AREA
4705 Center Avenue • Pgh 15213 
(Comer Center at Neville Street Near Mervis Motors)
Hal's Pizza234 Meyran Ave.
683-2525
•All ingredients made fresh daily 
•Over 15 toppings 
•Free 25 minute or less delivery
(weather permitting)
No one tops Hal's pizza!!
Celebrate Tradition
Balfour
iK Balfour.
Class Ring!
College memories can last a lifetime, when 
they’re preserved in a Balfour Class Ring. 
Sports, academics, degrees, years of graduation 
and custom school designs can all be captured in 
your Balfour Class Ring.. .a tradition of 
excellence since 1931!
Select yours
Thursday and Friday 
November 16 and 17 
10:00 - 4:00 
Baker HallNo one remembers in so many ways.

---------------------------------------------------

ou worked hard to get 
into the right college.
Now make sure you get 
into the right company-
Microsoft
If you’re interested in applications, operating systems, networking or multimedia software, we want to talk with you. Come find out about employment opportunities at Microsoft.Come see us:
Company PresentationWednesday, November 29, 1989 Skibo Center, Room 12 7:00 pm
Microsoft
We are an equal opportunity employer
\

---------------------------------------------------

SPORTS
Josh Ruben’sSportspeakTartans crush Case Western Reserve, 48-14
TV: The smart [fan’s choice
Football fans have always ar­
gued that the reason football is 
jo great is because it moves so 
¡t. Because the game is 
played under strict time condi- 
lions, there is no time for 
meaningless or unimportant 
events to hold back the natural 
progression of the game. To 
this, I say: Bull.
Anyone who has ever gone to 
a professional football game, or 
even a college Division I game, 
has had to deal with the pres­
ence of television.
Television does perform a 
rital service, especially in terms 
of college ball. A nationally tele­
vised game has more signifi­
cance in that the presence of a 
network at that particular game 
can weigh heavily in the AP and 
UPI voting.
But what about the people at 
the game who want to see a 
bard fought, exciting, rigidly 
timed football game? If they are 
at a televised game, they are in 
trouble.
Besides slow motion, the 
“blimp” shot, and the chalk- 
joard recap, television has also 
introduced the “TV timeout.” 
Everyone knows that when a 
team is in trouble or needs more 
time to set up a play, they call a 
;eam timeout. Once a team uses 
up its supply, that’s it.
These stoppages are usually 
pretty exciting. In fact, as any 
great armchair quarterback will 
tell you, games can be won or 
lost on a team’s use of timeouts.
Occasionally, the officials 
need to take timeouts in order 
to consult the rule book or each 
)ther. These can be a bit more 
»thersome for the players and 
'ans, but such timeouts are 
lecessaiy to ensure a “well 
ailed” game.
The TV timeout is a plain 
assle. After a score, for ex- 
imple, players must wait idly 
rnd fans must sit and shiver 
uhile the last commercial 
inishes. What should normally 
* a brief delay while the teams 
;et their special units on the 
ield turns into a long, drawn 
ut waste of time. A bad game 
an be made worse for the fans 
n the stadium because of the 
engths of time when nothing is 
happening on the field. The 
easoning is that the home 
iewer shouldn’t have to miss 
)ut on any of the action just 
ecause he or she wasn’t able to 
ome out to the game.
Sometimes I wonder why 
eople, including myself, even 
other to go to the games. With 
he advent of the “sports bar,” 
eople can sit in comfort (and 
'armth) and be waited on while 
hey watch the game(s) of their 
hoice.
Besides, television allows the 
lome viewer to see all the dif- 
¡rent angles of the game; there 
1M such thing as a bad seat in 
¡levision.
j I guess the appeal of going to 
|“e game is really not the game 
j'Belf, but rather the atmos- 
iphere. Why else would people 
Pay upwards of $40 a ticket to 
|lt out in the cold? Either people 
desperate for the sense of 
Vitality that comes from being 
jjt a live sporting event with 
“P.000 others just like them, or 
¦'ey are just plain dumb. I still 
can’t figure out which is usually
Josh Ruben is a senior major- 
,nS n professional writing.
photo by Dan Giurca
Senior halfback Dean Garofola carries the ball into Spartan territory fora touchdown. Carnegie Mellon buried 
Case Western Reserve University, 48-14.
By JASON McDONALD
Tartan Senior Staffwriter
Carnegie Mellon finished its 
1989 season in an impressive fash­
ion with a 48-14 victory over Case 
Western Reserve University. The 
Tartans’ offense ground out an 
521 total yards while the defense 
held the Spartans to a mere 195 
yards.
The game started as anything 
but a rout. After CMU opened the 
game by running three plays and 
punting, the Spartans drove 70 
yards in eight plays to score on a 
13 yard run by Tracy St. Clair. 
Larry Coyne added the extra point 
to give the Spartans the early 
lead, 7-0.
The Spartan lead turned out to 
be short-lived. As soon as the 
Tartans got the ball back, they 
began a quick march down the 
field. Several running plays and a 
12 yard pass from Steve Patemo 
to Mike Beresford gave the Tar­
tans a first down on the Case 
Western 33. Scott Bamyak took 
the pitch around the right side 
and went all the way to tie the 
game at seven.
After the Spartans were unable
to produce on their next series, 
the Tartans took over on their 
own 20 with under six minutes to 
play in the first quarter. The 
Tartans drove sixty yards, mostly 
on the ground, but ended the 
quarter facing fourth and two on 
the Case Western 30. The Tar­
tans surprised the Spartans with 
a play-action pass call. The de­
fense was caught flat-footed as 
Steve Patemo hit Dean Garofola 
who bolted into the end zone to 
give the Tartans the lead, 14—7.
The Tartan defense got into the 
action on the Spartans’ next pos­
session. The Spartans faced a 
third and 13 on their own 13 as a 
result of a delay of game call. 
Daryl Young dropped back to pass 
but was pressured and threw into 
the arms of CMU defender Paul 
Brinsky, who returned the ball 
down to the Case Western 16. On 
the very next play Steve Patemo 
hit tight end Josh Hvizdos for the 
touchdown. Another Joe 
Schwerha extra point made the 
score 21—7.
On fourth and one, the Tartans 
tried the same pass play that had 
scored the touchdown, but 
vuIm1I0br uI o.9b dc
Men’s cross-country takes second in the region
By ROBIN HENSINGER
Tartan Senior Staffwriter
ALLENTOWN, Penn.— After 
winning 104 consecutive dual 
meets, the men’s cross-country 
team ended its season on Satur­
day, finishing second at the east­
ern regional meet.
It was a cold day, with a slower 
race than last year, but almost 40 
friends and relatives made the 
journey from Pittsburgh to see 
the men compete.
CMU’s 97 points were not 
enough to qualify the team for 
next weeks national champion­
ship in Augustana, Illinois. Hav- 
erford College scored 49 points to 
win the meet. Glasboro college 
followed the Tartans with 103 
points.
The team was disappointed that 
its season ended early. “This is 
only the second time that the team 
hasn’t made it to Nationals,” said 
cross-country alumnus Keith 
Stopen. The men knew that the 
Haverford runners were going to 
give them stiff competition, which 
they did, placing runners in first, 
second and seventh.
Senior co-captain Dave Supp 
was in the top four for most of the 
race, until the end when he moved 
back, finishing eighth overall in 
26:16. Supp finished his cross­
country career with this meet; he 
is a three-time President’s Ath­
letic Conference champion, Uni­
versity Athletic Association cham­
pion 1989, UAA Athlete of the 
Week 1988, Regional Runner-up 
1988, All-East in the region 1986, 
1988,1989; and finished 26th in 
thenationl988.Hehasalso been 
co-captain since his junior year.
Finishing second for the team 
was sophomore Mike Damon who 
placedl6thforthe region in26:38, 
giving him an All-East title. Da­
mon, who has already been to 
Nationals, has two more years to 
run cross-countiy. He ended this 
year well, placing second for the 
team for the first time this sea­
son.
Also capturing All-East titles 
at the meet were senior Len 
O’Neal, who placed 24th, and 
junior, Gary Harrison, who placed 
25th, only a step behind O’Neal. 
O’Neal finished his last cross­
country meet with this regional
photo by Robin Hensinger
Top runner Dave Supp finished 
eighth in the regionals for CMU.
meet. O’Neal, who has been co­
captain this year, was All-Asso­
ciation at the UAA championship, 
placing 7th overall. He has been 
consistently the second or third 
runner for the team during his 
four years on the team and ran at 
three National meets.
The fifth man on the team, Gary 
Meeker, placed 32nd in the re­
gion this weekend and will also be 
graduating this year. He has been 
All-East in the region in 1988 and 
competed in Nationals in 1987 
and in 1988.
YuCbI’P vNuPPUvu0ImN8 
bIrP 1I I0CebN mbI Poum
By ROBIN HENSINGER
Tartan Senior Staffwriter
ALLENTOWN, Penn. — CMU’s women’s cross-country team trav­
elled to the regional meet where it placed 10th overall. The winning 
team was Allegheny College.
After their successful second place finish two weeks ago at the 
University Athletic Association (UAA) championship, the women 
were hoping to place higher than they did. Junior Kristen Burgard 
and freshman Laura Sibley both commented th at the team as a whole 
didn’t run well, and that the only one person who ran a good race was 
senior Sue Johnson.
In her last collegiate cross-country meet, Johnson placed 24th, 
making the All-East title by one place. She was excited to finish her 
career, in which she has gained several outstanding accomplish­
ments, with the title. At the last 200 yards she was running with 
junior Kristen Burgard when their coach, Dario Donatelli told them 
they were in 28th and 29th place. She said that she got up to 24th, 
“because I wanted it.” Some of Johnson’s accomplishments include 
President’s Athletic Conference champion 1986, All-East 1987 and 
1989, and top ten at the UAA championship.
Johnson finished the race in 20:39 with Burgard less than 10 
seconds behind her in 31st and sophomore Carolyn Lowe in 20:50 
finishing 35th. The fourth and fifth runners for CMU were Colleen 
Barkley and Sibley, placing in the seventies and eighties respec­
tively.
Johnson said that the runners are not sure why they placed where 
they did. “They were in position at the first two miles and then they 
started to drop back,” said Johnson.
Also running for Carnegie Mellon was senior Sandy Payne, who 
ran her first cross-country season this year. Johnson said that Payne 
“has a very good attitude and is a positive contribution to the team.”
Basketball Preview '89-'90
Inexperienced basketball teams strive for titles
Guards an asset for men
By KATIE CULBERTSON
Tartan Assistant Sports Editor
Making strides over last year’s 
7-18 season tops the priority 
list for the men’s basketball team 
this season. Coach Larry Ander­
son is expecting his “talented 
group of players” to do just that.
Anderson is confident after 
what he has seen in the pre-sea­
son scrimmages and practices. 
“They’re working hard,” he said. 
“The scrimmages gave us a 
chance to work on things before 
the regular season.”
Chris Luckett, the 6’7” center 
and senior captain, “should 
emerge as a leader,” said Ander­
son. With three starters from 
last year having graduated, 
Anderson will be giving some 
underclassmen playing time this 
year. “We’re a little inexperi-
enced, but they’re learning-the 
game quickly.”
According to Anderson, the 
schedule is shaping up to be 
“pretty tough.” There aren’t any 
breathers, between the Presi­
dents Athletic Conference and 
the University Athletic Associa­
tion.
“The PAC is always tough,” 
said Anderson. Grove City will 
be competitive, despite gradu­
ating two key players, and 
Washington and Jefferson and 
Bethany are also expected to be 
PAC contenders.
“The UAA is a tough proposi­
tion,” said Anderson. “The travel 
schedule really takes a toll.” The 
team has a few weekend trips in 
UAA play, to places such as At­
lanta and Boston. ‘The home- 
court advantage is a plus in the 
vuIm1I0br uI o.9b dc
Women look to PAC and NCAA regionals
By KATIE CULBERTSON
Tartan Assistant Sports Editor
Coach Gerri Seidl cites inexpe­
rience as the major hurdle for 
the women’s basketball team in 
1989-90. Last year’s President’s 
Athletic Association (PAC) cham­
pions graduated three key sen­
iors. “It’s a rebuilding type of 
year,” said Seidl.
But Seidl is not disappointed 
with this year’s group. “As soon 
as we gel, we have a better shot 
of attaining our goals. We have 
talented group of young play­
ers.” The goals she has in mind 
include reaching the top of the 
University Athletic Association 
(UAA) standings, as well as the 
PAC. She would also like to see 
the team reach the 500 mark in 
its record and make a repeat 
performance from last year in
the NCAA Division III Region­
als.
Seidl hopes the inexperience 
factor will be lessened somewhat 
from rotating players last sea­
son; she typically played about 
10 players per game, “so when 
we lose players, it’s not so detri­
mental,” she said. However, most 
of the players have only one or 
two years of experience under 
their belts, and Seidl notes that 
“there is a big difference between 
starting and coming off the 
bench.”
Seidl expects big things from 
her two captains, seniors Lisa 
Smith and Donna Spicuzza. “I’m 
looking for a lot of leadership 
from them,” she said. “They’re 
the best leaders, on and off the 
court.”
Injuries have sidetracked the 
team somewhat this season.
Senior Tricia Chorgo is still 
bouncing back from knee sur­
gery, so she is not 100 percent 
yet. “We need to stay healthy to 
maintain our depth,’’said Seidl.
Although Seidl does not like 
to rely on freshmenbecause they 
are still adjusting to college, 
she is pleased with two new­
comers this season, guard Kelly 
Sterling and forward Chandra 
Buist. “Kelly is a really nice 
guard,” said Seidl, who also has 
a lot of confidence in Buist, a 
quick learner who “has made 
great strides” in the pre-sea­
son.
Singling out players, however, 
isn’t Seidl’s style. “Everyone 
contributes; there isn’t one 
star,” she said.
Because the team hasn’t 
played any games yet, Seidl isn’t 
vuIm1I0br uI o.9b dc
»

---------------------------------------------------

dcilb i.Nm.I h p.NIb91b tbDDuI h dF fugbCebN dy,y
Students should look out for flu symptoms, before more serious problems set in
By SHEILA SKAFF
Tartan Staffwriter
Viruses claim the time and 
patience of college students every 
year. Last week, The Student Body 
focused on two common illnesses 
caused by viruses, the cold and 
mono. This week, the article will 
discuss another major viral sick­
ness on the Carnegie Mellon 
campus — influenza.
Influenza, or the flu, is an acute, 
contagious (transferrable) infec­
tion of the respiratory tract. It 
usually occurs through the inha­
lation ofarespiratoiy droplet from 
an infected person, perhaps 
through speech or sneezing.
Unlike the cold or mono, there 
are vaccinations available for the 
influenza virus. Unfortunately, 
the flu is complicated because it 
creates different strains of the 
virus every year.
This means the flu that we 
suffered last year may be slightly 
different from the flu which will 
invade the dorms this year. Some 
ofthe strains are found every year 
with only slight variations, and 
can be easily controlled through 
immunization.
Others, such as the one which 
spread nationwide and killed 20 
million people in 1918, support
major changes and cannot be 
controlled.
Following an incubation period 
of one to two days, flu symptoms 
will begin to appear in an infected 
person. These include the sudden 
onset of chills, temperatures of 
101 to 104 degrees Farenheit, 
headache, soreness, and cough 
that doesn’t seem to be clear the 
congestion. These symptoms 
usually subside in three to five 
days, but cough and weakness 
may persist.
If a fever lasts more than five 
days, a doctor should definitely 
be notified, and the sick person 
should begin a careful watch of 
himself or herself. Pneumonia, a 
more serious problem, may be­
come a complication of influenza 
if a fever is allowed to persist.
Treatment of the flu includes, 
as with the other viruses, bed 
rest, increased fluid intake, aspi­
rin or acetaminophen to relieve 
fever and muscle pain, and an 
expectorant to relieve coughing. 
Once again, antibiotics cannot 
help influenza. Use of mouth­
washes is recommended to con­
trol the spreading of the disease, 
especially in a college setting.
Health Services will offer an 
influenza vaccination this month 
(look for an advertisement stat­
ing the date and time). But wait
— before you rush to get the shot, 
there are a few things you should 
know concerning the vaccination.
The vaccination that will be 
offered by Carnegie Mellon is tri- 
valent, meaning it will cover the 
three strains of the virus which 
were found to be the biggest prob­
lems last year. This means that a 
person with the vaccination will 
probably not catch the Taiwan, 
Shanghai, or Yamagata viruses.
This is no guarantee that a new
strain won’t cause an infection in 
a vaccinated person, but the 
chances are greatly reduced by 
getting the shot.
The vaccine is recommended 
for a certain high-risk group. The 
county is willing to pay for vacci­
nations for the people who are in 
this group — which includes 
people with chronic pulmonary or 
cardiovascular problems, people 
with any chronic medical condi­
tion, people over 65 years of age; 
and people who have been hospi­
talized because of chronic meta­
bolic diseases (including diabe­
tes) within the last year.
Other than these people, it is 
not absolutely necessary to get 
the flu shot. Its major advantage 
is with students who feel they 
don’t have the time to be sick, who 
don’t want to be bothered when 
they have reports to write and 
tests to take. It therefore can be 
a great advantage in college.
Also, an outbreak of flu in col­
lege dorms can last longer and be 
more devastating than flu in a 
house of just a few people.
The major drawback to the 
immunization is that it doesn’t 
give young people a chance to 
acquire natural immunity to the 
virus. Because most healthy 
people will eventually recover 
from a case of flu and gain immu­
nity, sometimes it is advisable to 
suffer through it.
The flu shot takes three weeks 
for immunity to be effective. It is 
made from egg proteins, so any­
one who has a history of hypersen­
sitivity to eggs should avoid the
Sheila Skaff is a freshman in 
Humanities and Social Sciences 
who is desperatly trying to stay 
healthy this semester.
Men’s basketball looks to conference play
vuIm1I0br ONuC o.9b dd
UAA”
Anderson said he wants to 
do better than last year. Al­
though he wants to “focus on 
one game at a time,” he is 
aiming for the team to win all 
home games, and as many 
away games as possible.
The team has some pretty 
valuable assets to help achieve 
that. “We have speed, and we’re
strong at the guard position,” said 
Anderson. “We have quantity in 
guards, as well as quality.” Al­
though Anderson says the guards 
are the strongest area ofthe team, 
he does not want to “downgrade 
thebigguys,” but the guards will 
be ready to play faster.
“If we hold our poise and main­
tain a steady defense, we can be 
in every game,” said Anderson.
Also on the team’s agenda is the
possibility of clinchingboth the 
PAC and the UAA titles. An­
derson is especially keen on 
this particular goal, especially 
since this is the last year CMU 
will be in the PAC.
Like the women’s team, the 
men will travel to Boston this 
weekend to face Brandéis on 
Friday night and Case West­
ern Reserve University on 
Saturday afternoon.Women’s b-ball deals with inexperience
vuIm1I0br ONuC o.9b dd
sure what to expect once the 
regular season begins. But the 
team has played two scrim­
mages in the pre-season. The 
first scrimmage, according to 
Seidl, left much room for im­
provement. But she saw a 100 
percent improvement in the 
second scrimmage. “Hopefully, 
if we continue to improve at a 
rapid rate, we should be okay.”
Conference play, as well as the 
team’s schedule on the whole, will 
be competitive this season, said 
Seidl. “There are top schools in 
both conferences.”
She noted Washington Univer­
sity, University of Chicago, and 
New York University, last year’s 
tri-UAA winners, as tough games. 
“They all have more experience,” 
said Seidl.
“The PAC is pretty up in the
air,” she said. “But I would 
love to see us win that.” The 
team is looking for Thiel and 
Washington and Jefferson to 
be competitive in the confer­
ence.
This year, CMU starts the 
season in Boston againstBran- 
deis University and Case West­
ern Reserve University, then 
come back home for a match 
up with Lake Erie College.
Football ends 1989 season with victory
vuIm1I0br ONuC o.9b dd
Patemo’s pass fell in front of a 
diving Beresford.
The Spartans took the ball on 
downs and began to put together 
a drive, but key sacks by Jim Rose 
and Chris Balouris forced the 
Spartans to punt with only five 
minutes left in the half. With 
only two seconds on the clock, 
Fran Bellante blasted into the 
end zone,*but Schwerha’s extra 
point attempt didn’t have enough 
height and was blocked. The 
Tartans used an onside kick, and 
went into the locker room with a 
27-7 lead.
The second half started with 
another stalled Spartan drive, and 
CMU once again took advantage. 
The Tartans drove 77 yards, in-
cluding a key third-and-11 grab 
by Andrew Pizzurro and a Ber­
esford catch on fourth-and-16 
later in the drive. Bamyak capped 
the drive by beating the Spartan 
defense in a race to the comer for 
a two yard touchdown and a 34-7 
lead.
After the Spartans’ next pos­
session, a good Beresford punt re­
turn gave the Tartans the ball. 
Replacement running back Greg 
Marmol had a key third down run 
for 16 yards, but Barnyak did 
most of the work which included 
scoring on a three yard run.
Head Coach Rich Lackner de­
cided to take some of his starters 
out of the game, and Case took 
advantage of the personnel 
change. Early in the fourth quar-
ter, the Spartan offense finally 
got on track as Young hit Ken 
Holloway with a 33 yard pass ty 
put the ball on the Tartan 30. Oi) 
the very next play, Young went 
long again and found Jamie Meek 
to make the score 41-14.
When the Tartans got the ball 
back, they called on backup quar­
terback Sam Mangano to run the 
clock out. The Tartans drained 
seven minutes of time before being 
forced to punt. However, a Case 
Western attempt at a reverse on 
the return caused a fumble which 
Greg White scooped up to give thè 
Tartans the ball on the CWRU-5. 
After a loss of three by Jeff Rub­
ala, Mangano scrambled eight 
yards on a bootleg to give thfc 
Tartans the 48-14 victory.
CFA.......................2 fall seats
GIT..............................5 fall seats
1 spring seat
H&SS......................3 fall seats
MCS..........................3 fall seats
GSÜ...........................1 fall seat
2 spring seats
Sl I'A..........................1 fall seat
2 spring seats
I>1...................................1 fall seat
---------------------------------------------------------------------- .
.......±1......í...J....................................:
Petitions due today (at the Info. Desk)
• Petitions at Skibo Information Desk
• Elections will be Kov. 28-29 in front of Doherty Hall

---------------------------------------------------

ilb i.Nm.I h p.NIb91b tbDDuI h dF fugbCebN dy,ydQ
Jeff Kubala Brian Mlkol Eric Polkis
Running Back »Offensive »Fullback
Tackle
•PAC honorable 
mention
Skinner
•Captain 
.Linebacker 
•PAC honorable 
mention
Russell Hann
•Captain 
•Offensive Guard 
• PAC, UAA 1st 
team, District, 
2nd team
Mike Beresford
•Captain 
•Wide Receiver 
•PAC honorable 
mention, PAC, 
UAA 1st team, 
District, 2nd 
team
Paul Brlnsky
• Defensive Back
• CMU leading 
tackier
Ray Crothers
• DefensiveTackle
Dean Garofola
• Halfback
mm
wo12/27
t-äisutw-fesi—.
a. a**x-®3£aB
CJqiÈ*(25ìi)fflMi«ss, m
CFCfliMElS
IcSSs < Bachelor jä± £
(Jfffl) (MM*)àïi*iTffliia«(«5ca*ii. an-«»¿tic
#a-e—nanti >& itrAmiM'ïtt $ 500. a 
n*'í>ií¥ 20.000 ix-ssiêT®
iSHt4¡8¥jSSii(jRS)« • ftgi(sii)
Phone 1-800-537-2186(Toll free) 
iteli 03-234-5071 
izJbZ- h U.S.A. NY^7< ^
fsâ./ÊJii <*.#*>)
Phone 212-986-5520(9:00-17:00) 
*3i£-NY& ±.BI4|fc<.
3MIBM
Procter “3? GambleAT&T
The Boeing Co.EDS
Hughes AircraftBellcore
McDonnell DouglasNYNEX
Martin MariettaIntel
General MotorsMotorola
General ElectricMobil Oil
! SENIORS I
MEET ‘S? INTERVIE W WITH |
American Express 
& Chemical Bank 
C Goldman. Sachs “S? Co. 
jg JP Morgan 
a Salomon Brothers Inc 
S Merrill Lynch 
H The Prudential
Aetna Life *8? Casualty 
C Booz-Allen *3? Hamilton McNeil Pharmaceutical
And 100 Other Outstanding Employers 
^ At Careers’90!
Careers ’90 college recruitment conferences will give you the 
opportunity to meet and interview with some of the nation's top 
employers. Over 5.000 seniors have attended past conferences, with 
51% receiving second interviews and almost 40% receiving at least 
one job offer AS A DIRECT RESULT OF THEIR 
CONFERENCE PARTICIPATION. You can meet and interview 
with employers who don't recruit at your school, or make an 
important second impression on those that you do interview with on 
campus. In either case, just one day at Careers ’90 can enhance 
your choice of career options and significantly increase your chance 
of getting the job you want, with the employer you want.
ENGINEERING, COMPUTER SCIENCE, MATH, 
BUSINESS, PHYSICAL & BIOLOGICAL SCIENCES 
AND LIBERAL ARTS majors are being recruited. To be 
considered for a Careers ’90 invitation, send an updated resume 
by November 30, 1989 to Careers ’90. P.O. Box 1852. New 
Haven. CT 06508. (Indicate the conference(s) you'd like to attend).
Your interests and credentials will be carefully reviewed by our 
experienced staff and compared to other seniors in your major 
discipline. Seniors whose qualifications and interests best match ihe 
requirements of participating Careers '90 employers will be invited 
to attend. There is ABSOLUTELY NO CHARGE lo seniors 
who allend.
Careers '90 New York 
New York City, NY 
January 9 and 10, 1990
Careers '90 Atlanta 
8 Atlanta, GA K
January 30 and 31, 1990
Balouris
Dowdy
Tackle
•PAC Honorable 
mention
Gale King, Jr.
•Center 
• PAC 1st team
Stovar
End
Todd Suehr
•Offensive Guard
Mike Danciak
• Defensive Back
• Leads CMU in 
interceptions
Goodbye
Seniors!
By KARYN SILVA
Tartan Sports Editor
The end of the fall 1989 sports season is the end of the collegiate 
athletic careers of some of Carnegie Mellon’s most outstanding 
athletes. Trailing a list of titles and accomplishments a mile long, 
they leave their teams to rebuild in their wakes.
Football watched its first recruited players end the season Satur­
day in a win over Case Western Reserve. The 15 senior players, with 
' the one exception of running back Jeff Kubala, were starters. Head 
Coach Rich Lackner described his seniors: “Excellent group of kids. 
They are loyal to the football program. Academically they have done 
well and we have won a lot of games with them.”
Lackner is optimistic about the future without these key players. 
“Ihatetosee those guys go. I hope we have 15 young ones to take their 
place,” he said.“They are there when the whistle blows. It makes you i 
feel like you’ve lost something.”
Volleyball coach Sue Flaherty is losing two key players, setter 
Chris Mauro and Laurie Shumaker. According to Flaherty, “The 
seniors had a lot of influence, since seven of the 10 players are 
freshmen. They really took charge in the pre-game situation. They 
helped off the court in getting the freshmen oriented to campus and 
recruiting in the off season.”
Dario Donatelli, the women’s cross-country coach, is also losing a 
couple of very special athletes. Sue Johnson and Sandy Payne have 
been this season’s top runners. In particular, Johnson has consis­
tently been second orthird. “I could always counton where Sue would 
be. I need someone to take over where Sue left off,” Donatelli said.
Men’s cross-country coach Gary Meckley is losing six of the senior 
runners that brought his team to number eight in the country. Their 
titles range from University Athletic Association Athletes of the 
Week to All-Conference champions. “They really lived up to their 
potential,” Meckley said. “I've gotten the most out of them that they 
can give.”
Aside from their accomplishments, Meckely noted that the cross­
country seniors were ‘good for morale.’ “They had a lot of humor. This 
has been one of the most enjoyable teams that I have coached. I’ve 
learned a lot from them.”
FAMILY OR FRIENDS 
VISITING? TREAT THEM 
TO A SHADYSIDE SUITE
Elegantly furnished studio, one or 
two bedroom apartment suites 
fully equipped and accessorized 
a few steps from fasionable Walnut 
Street shops and restaurants. Short 
term lease from $33.00 per day. 
One month minimum stay. 
Includes FREE local phone, cable 
T.V. (2 movie channels), parking, 
all linens and a completely 
equipped kitchen. Daily and 
weekly rates available.
Reservations
(412)441-4444
i-lsa VanderMeer
•Captain 
•All-UAA team, 
¡o-MVP 
¦5 goals, 5 
assists
Denise Visconti
• 1 goal
Christina Grenci
(photo not available)
The CMU field 
hockey team 
this season was 
marked by spirit, 
unity and 
experience. 
Coached by 
Laurie Parker, 
the team had its 
ups and downs. 
Lisa VanderMeer 
captured the 
team's MVP 
title.
Volleyball
The CMU Volleyball team will miss the 
leadership of seniors Chris Mauro and 
Laurie Shumaker. Shumaker played in 75 
games each year as a Tartan. The Tartans 
finished their 1989 season with a loss 
against Grove.City, and tied for second 
with Bethany in the PAC standings.
Laurie Christine Mauro
Shumaker (photo not available)
Winning 104 
consecutive dual 
meets was made 
much easier for 
the men's cross­
country with the 
help of the 
seniors. The men 
finished their 
season at the 
eastern regional 
meet, with 
second place. 
Supp finished 
eighth in the 
race, while 
O’Neal and 
Meeker finished 
24th and 32nd, 
respectively.
Women's Cross-Country
Glen Hoogerwerf
•Goalkeeper, 2- 
year letterman, 
1st team All-PAC 
2nd team All-PAC 
and UAA 
honorable 
mention 
•10 career 
shut-outs
Men’s Cross-Country
Dave Supp
•Co-captain 
• PAC champion 
1989 UAA 
champion, UAA 
Athlete of the 
Week, Regional 
Runner-up, 
All-East 
26th in nation 
(1988)
Len O'Neal
•Co-captain 
•All-UAA, ran at 
3 National 
meets
Gary Meeker
• 32nd in region 
•All-East 
Nationals 
(photo not 
available)
Eddie Park
•Captain, 3-year 
letterman, All- 
PAC, UAA 
All-region 
•most points 
and goals 
•MVP
•UAA Athlete of 
the Week
Chuck Shvanda
•Co-captain, 3- 
year letterman 
3-year starter 
•top defender in 
PAC and UAA 
• “Backbone of 
CMU defense," 
according to 
Coach Gaudioso
A 10th place finish in 
the eastern regional 
ended the season for 
the CMU cross-country 
team.
Sandy Payne
• First season
Jody Burig
Sue Johnson
•Ail-East,
PAC champion,
All UAA
(photo not available)

---------------------------------------------------

dFilb i.Nm.I h p.NIb91b tbDDuI h dF fugbCebN dy,y
IM NewsIM Standings
The next IM Board meeting issioner Wei or the IM office.Majors Water PoloLittle Feet02KGB A20
Thursday at 11 am in the gymSudsuckers20DIVISION CKSA21
lounge.BowlingThe Sperm Whales11USS Carnegie20DIVISION DIron Eyes11
Sujit Bhattachgarya and KrisCommissionerSAE11Sig Tau20Kappa Sig Boys20Kappa Sig B02
Pasqualin comprise the commit­Kris Pasqualin x4594DTD02CIA11Trojans20Dudes03
tee on intramural jackets.Please pick up rules and re­Zoo11CIA A21
The IM board is consideringvised bowling schedules in the IMMinors Water PoloCharlie Challengers02B-l Bombers12DIVISION H
stickball on the parking garageoffice. Games will be rolled on thePika20Architorture02The Knobs01Mechanical B20
as an alternative to softball orForward Lanes Saturdays at 11USS Molly20ZombiesSDC-702Sig Tau A20
wiffleball.am. Please report the results ofUSS Carnegie20Theta Xi B11
matches to Pasqualin.Pioneers11DIVISION DDIVISION EBrown Wax11
SPORTS IN SEASONTheta Xi11DTD B30Pioneers B20ASA A02
RacquetballTeam Welch01Phi Kappa Theta20Iffies21Fringe02
Water PoloCommissionerPhi Kappa Theta01USS Mellon11Hoggin'11
CommissionersSujit Bhattacharya x4118AFROTC02Peat Moss02Umpalumpas12DIVISION J
Don Michel x5306Schedules are out and can beZoo02Psy-Clones03Army02Phi Kappa Theta20
Tom Fabian x4290picked up in the IM office. PleaseTower of Power02SAE A20
Water Polo Certified Lifeguardsplay all matches as scheduled andMajors SoccerMajors 6-Person VolleyballPenthouse Hamers11
Bridget Eperthener x4890report the results to the IM office.SAE 130Barcrawlers30DIVISION FGaudeamus12
John Bender x4575Real Mellon20The Networkers20Pi Lambda Phi20Supa the Day01
Please play all matches asUPCOMING SPORTSTheta XI20Name Server12Crevice21Zoo A03
scheduled. Please return allKSA20Haagen-Daz Kids12Spike12
equipment to its proper place fol­BridgeDelta Upsilon A02Spycho12WTHM02DIVISION K
lowing the final game of the eve­CommissionerBallbusters02Mech. Engineering02DTD B02Slammers30
ning.Matt Murbach x8670World Cup02USS Carnegie02Ben Wa Balls20
Enrties are due Thursday atMinors 6-Person VolleyballSAE B11
Soccer4:30 pm.Intermediate SoccerDIVISION AIntermediate 6-Person VolleyballThe Working Sets12
CommissionersATO Wolfpack20Trojans II20DIVISION GPika12
Major — Pat Jeffries x4204ChessDTD A20Pi Alpha Delta20Theta Xi A20Damped Harm. Osc.O2
Intermediate—JefTMyers x5478 
Minor, Women Only — Sujit
CommissionerPika20KGB B11_________
Matt Murbach x8670Ledges Unite11Boys From the Hill11;
Bhattacharya x4118 
Please check the IM board for
Entries are due Thursday at 
4:30 pm.
Mech. Engineering 
Delta Upsilon B
1
0
2
2
Sig Tau B 
DTD A
1
0
1
2Lacrosse beats SRU, !9-15
the 1989 Soccer Playoff schedule.Spartans03The Crumbsuckers02By ALIM RAYJohnson (1), and Scott Johnson,
The games scheduled for OctoberDartsTartan Staffwriterwho scored one goal before hel
31 will be rescheduled.CommissionerMinors SoccerDIVISION Bleft the game.
Please play all games as sched­Sujit Bhattacharya x4118DIVISION AYinzers30The CMU lacrosse team hadThis was the last game of the
uled.Final due date for entries isEPP30Delta Upsilon20to battle Slippery Rock for a 9—5fall season for the Tartans. The
Thursday at4:30 pm—more dartKDR20Mudge Sludge11win on Saturday,ina gamemain season begins in March.
Volleyballteams are needed.SAE 221The Jazz11marred by small fights.This year’s team shows more
CommissionerPioneers11USS Mellon12The game wasclose at thepotential than last year’s squad.
Rich Romeo x4417Three-Man VolleyballDoherty Dynasty12KDR02half, when the skirmishes be­Last year’s lacrosse onlywon!
Please check the IM board forCommissionerTop Floor03A Phi 0 Lobsters02gan. The referee issued penal­one game, but this year thel
the playoff schedule.Todd Balbera x5995ties and threw out two players:Tartans have already won two!
Matches will begin Sunday.DIVISION BDIVISION Ca player from Slippery Rock andgames.
Table TennisPi Lambda Phi20K. Pasqualin30Scott Johnson of Carnegie Mel-When asked about theup.
CommissionerBackgammonKappa Sigma20ASAB20lon.coming spring season, Kaplan
Jong Wei x4492CommissionerQuantum Chaos21Mean Values11The scoring for CMU was di­said he was .“looking forward’
Schedules are out and can beBeth Moses x4826Beta D11SDC II11vided among five players: Johnto getting Bill Elliot, who is
picked up in the IM office. PleaseEntries are due Thursday atMutant Krishnas02Sig Tau C12Seekings (3 goals), Phil KaplanCMU’s vice president foren-f
report the results to Commis­4:30 pm.WTHM03CIA B02(2), Rob Kendall (2), Bayardrollment to coach.J
T h e t a X i ' s
BASKET BUCK'
EIGHTY« NINES
Frida\SaturdaySaturday
Spirit
Spirit
Bye
11:15am Full Ct
Beta B
7:45pm D
DH____
7:00 PM Saturday 
Dept. Public Safety / LCB 
vs.
CMU Greek All-Stars
Prize Drawing:
Halftime of Championship Game
(Ticket Holder Must Be Present For Drawing)
10:00am Full Ct
4:30pm Full Ct3:00pm Full Ct
ECE
6:30pm D
SAE___
1:45pm Full Ct
Championship Game 
8:30 PM Saturday 
Full Court
6:30pm A
SPC
Balouris
9:00pm A
___SUPA
Theta Xi B
7:45pm A
GSIA
Theta Xi A
9:00pm D
KDR
CMU Gym, November 17th & 18th 
Admission w/ $1 Raffle Ticket
(Saturday Only)
12:30am Full Ct
ATO
ATO
Bye

---------------------------------------------------

ilb i.Nm.I" p.NIb91b tbDDuI TI1gbNP1m8" M1mmPe0N9l" MbIIP8Dg.I1.dF fugbCebN dy,y
rN09 rb.DbN" OuNCbN ptT Pm0rbIm" r1Pv0PPbP mlb rN09 0Pb uI v.Co0P
By KEVIN BARNEY
Tartan Features Editor
Editor's Note: Casey Jones is 
an alias for a former CMU stu­
dent who now sells drugs. For 
obvious reasons, he wishes to re­
main anonymous.
Casey Jones started smoking 
marijuana in the summer be­
tween sixth and seventh grade. 
His first taste was on a boy 
scout outing; several of the older 
troop members had some mari- 
luana and they shared it. Jones 
continued to smoke until he 
reached tenth grade when he 
fluit. When he reached his sen­
ior year in high school, he 
started to smoke again and he
still smokes today. When his 
parents found out about his drug 
use, they stopped speaking to him. 
Jones said, “I don’t plan on going 
home for Thanksgiving. I’ll avoid 
it if I can. [My parents and I] last 
spoke over Christmas break. I 
saw my father once after that.”
Jones was a freshman last year 
at CMU. He is taking this year off 
and plans to attend Pitt next year. 
He just quit a regular job and is 
looking for another job until school 
starts up again.
Last year around the mid-se- 
mester break, Jones started to 
sell marijuana. He got into the 
business by smoking a lot ofit and 
knowing several upperclassmen 
who also smoked. He has about 
20-25 regulars who keep retum-
“[My customers are] people with long­
hair, deadheads, and there are people 
considering a job on Wall Street in a
management-type position — very 
clean cut, straight Republicans."
— Casey Jones
ing to him for more marijuana. 
He makes about $5 to $10 a week 
by selling drugs. “Just enough for 
a pack of cigarettes and some food. 
I do it in my free time.”
Jones’ customers are mostly 
CMU students. “I don’t know any 
high school students. I think it’s
pretty bad news to get involved 
with them. On the college level, 
there seems to be an acceptance 
of things, sort of hands off, no one 
wants any bad press. If you get 
involved with high school stu­
dents, people get really upset.” 
His customers come from var­
ied backgrounds. “People with 
long hair, deadheads, and there 
are people considering a job on 
Wall Street in a management- 
type position — very clean cut, 
straight Republicans.”
He also sells only marijuana, 
even though he could sell other 
drugs. “I could get other stuff. 
Acid, mushrooms, that's no prob­
lem. Any other stuff I won't [sell] 
because I don’t like it and I don’t 
approve of it; it’s bad news.” 
According to Jones, the amount 
of marijuana on campus per 
semester is about three pounds. 
“That’s an estimate. That includes 
stuff I don’t even know about. I’m 
meeting new people that smoke 
all the time.” The street value for 
three pounds sold by the eighth
ounce is around $9600.
He refused to be interviewed 
on campus and he also stated 
that he had problems with CMU 
security. According to Jones, 
“The CMU police know what is 
going on. They know people. 
They choose not to do anything 
about it. They may not know 
everything, but they know quite 
a bit.” The reason for this: “Bad 
press. It looks really bad if you 
have a big bust on campus.”
As for his future plans, Jones 
is going to get a degree in phi­
losophy from Pitt and then do 
something constructive in his 
life. “I don’t foresee giving up 
smoking, but I don’t want to sell 
drugs for the rest of my life as a 
career.”
*uD0Cb ,F" VPP0b d'jVolun
Drugs on campus:
August 28, 1988: “Male student 
would not leave female student’s 
Morewood Garden room. Male stu­
dent was disrespectful, uncoopera­
tive, and belligerent to Campus Po­
lice. Male student was issued a State 
Citation for underage drinking.” 
September 9, 1988: “Two 
non-university people were driving 
in the fraternity area. After the driv­
ers backed into several garbage can­
isters and drove into a wall, Campus 
Police stopped to question them. One 
Police Officer saw a suspicious-look- 
ing substance and proceded to search 
the car. 12 oz. of marijuana were 
found. The two were arrested for 
possesion of a controlled substance.
February 2,1989: “Carnegie Mel­
lon police observed a student carry­
ing a can of beer in CFA. The student 
was stopped and issued an internal 
citation for underage possession of 
alcoholic beverages.”
April 15,1989: “Several fraternity 
brothers were seen chasing, an indi­
vidual east on Forbes. The person 
had allegedly caused trouble at a fra­
ternity party. The person, not a CMU 
student, was issued a state citation 
for underage drinking. ”
April 16, 1989: “A visibly intoxi­
cated non-student was arrested for 
discharging a fire extinguisher over 
the lawn of one of the fraternities.” 
October 12, 1989: “Person at­
tempted to enter Warner [Hall], failed, 
andthen tried to grind hishipson the 
patio door... the person stated that he 
was on medication. ”
These were compiled f 
and Incident reports.
It’s more than just students and alcohol
By KEVIN BARNEY
Tartan Features Editor
The incidents to the left were among the ap­
proximately 120 reported alcohol violations from 
the 1988-89 school year and the first few months 
of this academic year. In addition to these viola­
tions, hard drugs are also present on campus. 
This year alone, there have been at least three 
drug overdoses. The drug war th at has taken the 
country by surprise has not left Carnegie Mellon 
alone, although other schools are having bigger 
problems with drugs.
According to James LaPaglia, chief of the Car­
negie Mellon Police Department, there is an Ari­
zona school that is receiving “hundreds of thou­
sands of dollars in aid from the federal govern­
ment to beef up their campus police to help the 
interdiction in fighting drug use and drug deal­
ing in that area, and it has turned into a battle 
zone for them.” The problems that have plagued 
this Arizona campus include drugrunners armed 
with automatic weapons, students becoming drug 
dealers because they are so close to the drug 
pipeline, and shootings on campus. After listing 
the problems that this other school has had, La­
Paglia added, “When you hear things like that 
then you have to say, ‘Wow! our problems are 
minimal.’ ”
According to LaPaglia, The major locale for 
the drug abuse is the fraternity quadrangle, his 
reasoning behind this is, “[The fraternity quad­
rangle] is certainly a center where you can find 
activities going on. I think if you have any kind 
of social center, you’ll find an increase in alcohol 
and drugs.” Many students believe that CFA is 
probably the college with the most prominent 
drug abuse. According to LaPaglia, “I think that
a lot of people would think [that CFA is the college 
with the most drug abuse]. I’m not sure though, I 
don’t have any statistics.”
The problems on campus with drugs may be “mini­
mal” but they are here and the evidence for this is 
apparent. So far this semester, campus police have is­
sued over sixty internal citations for alcohol viola­
tions. Compare this to last year’s total number of ci­
tations for alcohol violations, 44, and you’ll see how 
much more concentrated an effort campus police are 
doing to enforce the new alcohol policy that took effect 
October 1. “Last year the policy was issued and it was 
a very comprehensive policy that was directed mostly 
at the students. This year, we start the school year off 
by amending that same alcohol policy and the new 
additions to the policy are mostly directed at and con­
cerning faculty, staff, and administrators.” LaPaglia 
seemed pleased with the new policy, mainly because 
continued on page L2
A reformed addict talks about drugs at CMU
By KEVIN BARNEY
Tartan Features Editor
Editor’s Note: Reverend J is a former CMU 
student who dropped out of school three semesters 
ago. Reverend J is the nickname that his friends 
gave him. He wishes to remain anonymous for 
this article.
“I was always a curious person.” Reverend J’s 
curiosity first brought him into contact with 
drugs. Another contributing factor was the pres­
ence of drugs at his house. “My parents did have 
dope around the house. It was kind of hush- 
hush, but I knew anyway.”
He started using drugs in his junior year of 
high school. When he got to CMU, in the fall of 
1987, there were “drugs everywhere. I kind of 
expected it. It’s a college campus but it still sur­
prised me; going from a basic high school envi­
ronment to a college campus with all these drugs 
around and you’re free [from your parents]. You 
have the opportunity to do what you want.” 
Reverend J began his college career majoring 
in mathematics and engineering. At the end of 
nne semester, he dropped out of CIT and entered
H&SS because his classes “bored him.” At the 
end of his second semester, his grades had not 
improved and he dropped out of school alto­
gether. “My grades in H&SS were not good 
enough to pull me out of the hole. I was taking a 
lot of dope. That didn’t help [my grades].”
On campus, Reverend J and his friends were 
discreet about their drug use. “We would smoke 
dope, listen to Floyd, and just talk, not loudly or 
anything. We toweled the door and tried to keep 
it quiet. Sometimes we would go to a movie in 
DH2210, take a pinchhitter (a small joint) and 
light up while we were watching the movie, but 
usually [our drug use] wasn’t anything flagrant. 
No love-ins on The Cut or anything.”
He found his drugs by hanging out in Ham- 
merschlag house, his freshman dorm. “After a 
while drugs just followed us around wherever 
we went.” One of his friends took out an emer­
gency student loan to buy two ounces of mari­
juana. He then sold it to the people he knew and 
in the process he “made so much money.” During 
his one year stay at CMU, Reverend J spent over 
$800 on drugs.
Once he got caught by his RA using drugs. He 
was sent to Dave O’Brien, the area coordinator
for the Hill in 1987-1988, who told him “not to [use 
drugs] on campus.”
As far as the campus helping him, Reverend J says 
that he did not realize that he could get help from 
Health Services or the Counseling Center. “They 
should have more publicity. They might have helped 
me.”
Some of his friends are still attending CMU and 
they are still into drugs. “They’re into [drugs] still, 
but not as heavy as they were during my whole fresh­
man year. I accept what they’re doing. It obviously 
isn’t hurting them a lot because they have 3.5s or 4. Os. 
They’re getting really good grades. I just couldn’t 
handle [the drugs].”
As far as quitting, he managed it by himself. “I was 
just sitting at a friend’s place one night smoking a 
bowl (slang for smoking marijuana in a pipe) and all 
of a sudden I got really kind of nervous and I thought 
to myself, ‘Why am I smoking all this dope?’ I mean it 
was fun for awhile and then it started getting to be the 
same.”
Now he is working and has been straight for over 
eight months. “A couple of weeks ago I smoked [mari­
juana] and it didn’t feel the same. I was all jittery. It 
was the first time in eight months and it will probably 
be the last [time ever].”

---------------------------------------------------

)cilb i.Nm.I h p.NIb91b tbDDuI h dF fugbCebN dy,y
LaPaglia discusses drug and alcohol problems at Carnegie Mellon
vuIm1I0br ONuC o.9b )V
“everyone who lives or works on 
campus comes under this policy.” 
The new additions to the policy 
deal mostly with faculty, staff, 
and administrators having a TGIF 
party or a happy hour social. The 
major problem here is that dur­
ing these gatherings, alcohol can 
and will be served. LaPaglia gave 
an example of what could hap­
pen, “You may as a faculty, staff 
member or administrator have a 
little get together on a Friday af­
ternoon in a lab or a lounge for 
graduate students only. That’s 
fine and you feel pretty comfort­
able that everyone there is over 
21; but what happens when a 
graduate student brings his girl­
friend, who’s only 19 and they’re 
both served? That faculty mem­
ber who organized and who is in 
charge of that can be charged with 
a third degree misdemeanor, 
which is a criminal record.” In 
addition to criminal problems, 
lawsuits can also be brought up, if 
something happens to either one 
of the couple. According to La­
Paglia, the criminal record is 
worse than the potential lawsuit. 
“What is even scarier is that the 
insurance policies have disclaimer
“...it’s a strong and safe bet that if 
someone was selling any kind of drug 
they'd be looking at some kind of dis­
cipline. ” _ James LaPagna
sections that say that if you com­
mit a crime, they will not cover 
you and serving alcohol to a mi­
nor is a crime.”
In the fall of 1986, three stu­
dents, all separately, were picked 
up and taken to the hospital after
tripping out on some bad acid. In 
that same period of time, another 
student was caught trying to sell 
LSD on campus, and he was 
immediately expelled. As far as 
expelling anyone that is caught 
selling drugs, LaPaglia says that
Campus Police works with Stu­
dent Affairs and they take the 
cases on a case by case basis. 
According to LaPaglia, “turning 
[the case] over to the Internal 
Disciplinary process is probably 
harsher than the criminal aspect, 
because they could still stay in 
school.” Asked if everyone caught 
selling drugs would be expelled, 
LaPaglia replied with, “Not re­
ally, but it’s a strong and safe bet 
that if someone was selling any 
kind of drug they’d be looking at 
some kind of discipline.” 
Substance abuse even exists 
among the faculty and staff
members of Carnegie Mellon. On 
this topic, LaPaglia said, “I think 
the national average [for sub­
stance abuse] for the work force 
and that includes police depart, 
ments, is that ten percent can be 
considered to be having some type 
of substance abuse problem; and 
I’m sure we have to have our share 
on campus, and occasionally ¡t 
comes to our attention because 
someone gets into a problem.” 
As far as schools go, Carnegie 
Mellon is more or less on the same 
level as other colleges and univer­
sities of the same size and type of 
location in the fight on drugs.
Health Services can help addicts
By PAUL ALLOCA
Tartan Staffwriter
Recent research by the United 
States government’s National 
Institute on Drug Abuse has 
shown that drug use on campuses 
across the country has been de­
clining steadily throughout the 
eighties. Yet drugs are still every­
where, and the study sites a 
“surprising and unsettling” in­
crease in the use of cocaine by 
students over the same period. As 
any student at CMU can tell you, 
our school has not escaped drugs’ 
widespread grip.
The college years are a particu­
larly easy time for people to ex­
periment with, and later get 
hooked on, drugs. For many, this 
is the first time that they have 
lived away from home, and be­
cause students cling together for 
support, peer pressure may be­
come too great. Carnegie Mellon 
has realized these problems, and 
branches ofthe University Health
Center and Student Affairs have 
been set up. to deal specifically 
with substance abuse on campus.
Mostofus will visit the Student 
Health Center at least once in our 
four years here, and it is here that 
any illness or injury due to drugs 
is detected. The Health Center 
believes that the first step towards 
recovery is the patient’s recogni­
tion of a problem. Friends of the 
victim may realize, either from 
physical or emotional signs, that 
a problem has persisted for a long 
time, without him or her admit­
ting, or even realizing, that his or 
her recreational use has crossed 
the boundary to addiction.
If signs are detected, the Health 
Center tells the student the facts 
about his illness. And if neces­
sary, the student is referred to 
counseling for help. One major 
problem is that many students 
fail to realize they can become 
chemically dependant on alcohol, 
just like any other drug. Health 
Services told the scary tale of the
functioning alcoholic — one re­
cent student consumed nearly a 
quart of vodka daily, and still 
managed to pass his classes.
The CMU Counseling and Stu­
dent Development Center, a divi­
sion of Student Affairs, has set up 
different programs on campus to 
counsel students with drug prob­
lems. Group counseling is avail­
able: this approach receives the 
best response from patients. In 
addition, BACCHUS, an orgniza- 
tion to “promote subtance abuse 
prevention,” has been created and 
holds weekly meetings open to all 
students. An abuse hotline is 
available, (x 7070), plus many 
other programs in conjunction 
with the nearby St. Francis 
Medical Center. All the informa­
tion about these programs has 
been given to every incoming 
freshman, posted on bulletin 
boards, and publicized weekly in 
The Tartan. The Center’s mes­
sage is clear: help is there for all 
those that need it.
The Furth Foundation offers $25,000 for the solution to an economic problem
By SCOTT PAKIN
Tartan Staffwriter
The ruble, the monetary unit 
of the Soviet Union, is a com­
munist currency, so its worth is 
determined by the government, 
not by the laws of supply and 
demand. The value ofthe Ameri­
can dollar, on the other hand, is 
determined by supply and 
demand. Because of that dis- 
crepency between communism 
and capitalism, it is impossible 
to exchange rubles for dollars.
Or is it? Fred Furth, a San 
Francisco attorney and busi­
nessman, thinks it is possible to 
make the exchange. And that’s 
why the Furth Foundation is 
offering a'$25,000 cash prize to 
whoever comes up with the most 
comprehensive way to convert 
currency. The second best idea 
will merit its creator $10,000 
cash. Third prize is $1,000.
Coming up with a practical 
solution isn’t an easy task. Econo­
mists from all over the world have 
been trying to come up with a so­
lution for years now. Is it feasible 
to believe that by April 1, 1990 
someone will find a way to con­
vert rubles?
What makes it so difficult to 
convert rubles to dollars? The 
central problem is that the two 
major economic systems in use in 
the world today are in almost 
complete opposition with each 
other. The United States is a free 
enterprise economy. Prices are de­
termined by how much each good 
or service is worth to the con­
sumer.
The Soviet Union, on the other 
hand, is a centrally planned econ­
omy. What that means is that the 
price of a good is not determined 
by how much consumers are will­
ing to pay for it, but rather by 
what is determined by the State
Committee for Prices.
How have American com­
panies been selling their prod­
ucts to the Soviet Union? As 
an illustration, Pepsico sells 
Pepsi in the Soviet Union. 
However, Pepsico doesn’t 
want to get paid in rubles, 
and can’t get paid in dollars. 
So what happens? Pepsico 
gets paid in quantities of 
Smirnoff Vodka, which it then 
resells in America.
Unfortunately, not all 
American companies want to 
be paid in vodka or other 
goods. They want cash. If an 
entrants finds a method for 
converting between rubles 
and dollars, the global mar­
ketplace will benefit.
For info contact the Esalen 
Institute Soviet-American 
Exchange Program, 3105 
Washington Street, San Fran­
cisco, CA 94115.
A Person's Opinion
One of the biggest problems 
facing our country today is the 
drug problem. The drug war 
has spread from SouthAmerica 
where bombings are becoming 
everyday occurrences to the 
streets of our cities, where 
people are being killed every­
day.
The drug problem is every­
where. So far this semester, 
there have been at least three 
drug overdoses.
An approximation given by a 
drug dealer gives the figure of 
three pounds of marijuana per 
semester being consumed on 
campus.
We went out and asked if the 
average student knew that this 
type of activity took place on 
campus. We asked them if they 
thought that Carnegie Mellon 
had a big drug problem.
Elena Chartofif 
Sophomore, MCS
“Well, not that I’m aware of 
really. I’ve heard that it is. I think 
that it is a big problem, but not 
with any of my friends or people 
that I know.”
Jerry Decatrel 
Freshman, CIT
“I know a student who was in­
terested in getting crack. I don’t 
know who it was, just what I 
heard. That was pretty surpris­
ing, I didn’t expect that at school. 
I come from New York, thought I 
got away from all that.”
Geof McDonald 
Freshman, H&SS
“No.”
Ji-Hoon Lee 
Sophomore, H&SS
“There is a drug problem at 
every single college in the United 
States, but I don’t think it’s that 
bad here.”
photos by Lauren Poyant 
Rick Rubenstein 
Senior, CFA
“I think mostly- alcohol is a 
problem on campus. I think 
people make it far too much a 
priority based on other activi­
ties.”
HELP AT CRITICAL TIMES
CMU Counseling & Student Development Center...........................268-2922
After 5:00 pm, an answering service operator will help you reach 
the Counselor on call.
Walk-in Tutoring......................................................................................... 268-2922
Calculus, Physics, Chemistry, Biology, Writing, Computing 
Sunday - Thursday 8:00 -11:00 pm (see Tartan Ad)
CONTACT Pittsburgh............................................................................... 782-4023
24-hour telephone counseling, crisis intervention, and supportive 
listening.
Student Health Service..............................................................................268-2157
Hours: Mon, Tue, Thu, Fri— 8:30 am-5:00 pm 
Wed~9:30 am-6:30 pm
For after hours emergencies, call Campus Police (x2323) for
transport to hospital.
BACCHUS....................................................................................................... 268-7071
Student organization which promotes substance abuse prevention.
Meetings are held on Mondays, 5:30-7:30 pm
Room 121, Margaret Morrison, and are open to all students
Drug Connection........................................................................................... 854-0700
An Alcohol/Drug crisis hotline, 5:00-9:00 pm 
Counseling and Student Development Center, a Division of Student Affairs
Now Accepting Submissions
Dossier serves as an open literary 
forum for the students of Carnegie 
Mellon and is enthusiastic about 
reviewing any poetry, fiction, essays, 
plays, etc., for possible publication.
Send submissions and questions by 
campus mail to:
Dossier
c/o The Tartan
Room 50, Sklbo
Deadline for Third Issue: 
Friday, November 17th.

---------------------------------------------------

ilb i.Nm.I h p.NIb91b tbDDuI h dF fugbCebN dy,y)Q
javi becomes disgusted with the theater and turns to spotting actors
actors currently on the London 
stages are also behind the best 
productions on display; these are 
the more accomplished stage ac­
tors v/ho have achieved face-rec- 
ognition in the states through a 
few movie appearances.
Consider John Wood. His cur­
rent position as one ofthe leading 
performers of the Royal 
Shakespeare Company, cemented 
by performances as Prospero in 
The Tempest, and the title role in 
Ibsen’s The Master Builder (a role 
last played by Lawrence Olivier, 
20 years ago) probably means 
little outside ofthe audience which 
sees them. However, mention him 
as the evil bishop in Ladyhawke, 
the evil MIG agent in Jumpin’ 
Jack Flash (it’s a good time for 
Jumpin’ Jack Flash alumni, send 
Whoopi over immediately) or the 
only slightly ominous scientist in 
War Games and recognition is 
sure to come. There is also 
Stephen Berkoff—whose recent 
Broadway productions of Kafka’s 
Metamorphosis and Shake­
speare’s Coriolanus received wide 
acclaim and whose rendition of 
Wilde’s Salome is about to open at 
the National Theatre — probably " 
will bring his face into the mem­
ory of a few. If you should men- " 
tion that Berkoff played the evil 
Aryan fascist in Absolute Begin­
ners, the evil Aryan Russian colo­
nel in Octopussy, or the evil Ar­
yan art dealer Victor Maitland in 
Beverly Hills Cop you will defi­
nitely get a mental picture of 
Berkoffs Aryan face. Perhaps 
there is a connection between on 
screen villany and on stage excel­
lence. Still, I’m not going to hold 
my breath for th e version af Ham­
let, even if they do get Julie 
Newmar to play Gertrude.
J. GBILLO-MABXUACH
\rtan Staffwriter
¿11, right, all right, you don’t 
iveto twistmy arm, I’ll admitit, 
su don’t have to twist my arm: I 
itoutforeighthoursinthefreez- 
g drizzle (no, I wasn’t wearing 
y boots) in wait for return tick- 
to “The Phantom of the Op- 
0.” I even got the phantom’s 
itograph as he went in through 
e stage door. The odd thing is 
iat a lot of the people waiting in 
ie did not wait for tickets but to 
lower the phantom with flow­
s/autograph books/pictures of
their dog/their own rendition of 
their highlights of the show. Other 
truly die-hard phantom devotees 
(phantomites?) spent the time in 
line for the sole purpose of spend­
ing time with other phantomites 
and share flowers/autograph 
books/pictures of their dog/their 
own rendition of the highlight of 
the show amongst themselves. 
Many of them spent so much time 
in line that they were on a first- 
name basis with the return ticket 
vendor. I haven’t seen anything 
like it since that convention in 
Reno. I don’t want to talk aboutit; 
it’s a painful memory.
The answer is yes. I got in. The 
an swer is no. I didn’t like it. Now, 
don’t get me wrong, my not liking 
the show had nothing to do with it 
being an overwrought piece of 
melodramatic sewage doomed to 
collapse under the weight of its 
own heavy-handed expectations 
and right on the heads of the 
creators. I wasn’t even appalled 
at the fact that the much-hyped 
multi-million dollar set pieces (the 
elephant, the bridge) did precious 
little to hide the multi-million 
dollars that were not spent on the 
rest of the show. Those few short-
comings had nothing to do with it 
at all.
What really disturbed me was 
the fact that there were recogniz­
able character actors in the pro­
duction. Given the painfully short 
rehearsal periods, shrinking 
budgets, and complete lack of 
innovation for the sake of profit 
which plagues many West-End 
productions, the true fun of thea­
ter going (other than judging the 
differing quality of the ice creams 
served during intervals, stealing 
the opera glasses, trying not to 
fall off the balcony, and the sam­
pling of the “wide variety of 
drinks” in the theater’s bar) comes 
from spotting the familiar faces 
in the cast of the major shows.
Of course, it would be patently 
unfair to say that all of the shows 
running on the West End are 
completely rotten; however, it 
would be fair to say that the 
quality is extremely uneven and 
that most of the shows suffer from 
one or more of the symptoms I 
have outlined. While some of the 
shows have a large enough budget, 
the best example is Miss Saigon, 
one only has to look beyond the 
fully functioning helicopter,
PeneronKp’fez
i toppings/quantità 
cheese
crust
aesthetics
overall 7 6 «
gtwlity of toppings 
quantity at toppings 
aesih-ctJcs
G. Carmichael
The Pizza Tasters meet Four Star Pizza
By JON SLENK, BARRY 
3RUNITT, KYM CHARIN & 
MATT MCKISSOCK
Tartan Staffwriters
This week we tested Four Star 
Pizza. Our standard order was 
placed; one large pepperoni 
pizza and one “best shot.” Upon 
delivery we discovered that the 
me “best shot” was actually a 
special; as the advertisement 
says, “Two Four Star Pizzas, 
3neLow Price.” We decided that 
we would follow the letter of our 
law and review only one of these 
;wo, as well as the standard 
Jepperoni.
So, without further ado, we 
:ommenced with the analysis 
pfthe pepperoni. It arrived, hot, 
ipproximately circular in
shape, in a box and ready for 
eating. Before sampling, we took 
time to note that it was, on the 
whole, aesthetically pleasing. It 
had the air of simply wishing to 
be eaten. We complied with its 
desire, and promptly digested it.
After our excruciating self-ex- 
amination and metaphysical in­
quiry we decided that it was a 
“good” pizza. There were no nega­
tive points; the synergy of sauce, 
topping and crust was, simply, 
very pleasing. The crust was 
chewy towards the middle, crisp­
ier at the edges. Ample sauce, 
cheese and pepperoni topped it.
Upon opening the second box, 
we saw before us a sight rarely to 
be experienced by even the most 
accomplished pizza gourmets. 
The toppings were numerous,
presenting themselves as a 
subtle blend of vivid colors and 
complex topology. In total, we 
counted ten toppings. We pre­
sumed this to be their Super 
Deluxe. Black olive, green pep­
per, hot pepper, mushrooms 
(unfortunately canned), onions, 
ham, ground chuck, sausage, 
pepperoni and extra cheese 
graced this stately pie. Al­
though, in general, there were 
toppings that we would not have 
willingly selected ourselves, the 
sum total was, in a word, “excel­
lent.” If you are looking for a 
unique, satisfying pizza, try 
this.
Four Star Pizza; 683-0400. A 
large, pepperoni pizza is $7.99 
and the Super Deluxe is $13.99.
thirty-five foot tall bust of Ho Chi 
Minh, drivable Cadillac, and flam­
ing midgets jumping through 
hoops of fire to realize just how 
vapid the show truly is (how many 
self respecting poets would allow 
lines like “conceived in hell and 
born in strife...these children 
whose only crime was being born” 
to see the light of day?) Other 
shows have had plenty of re­
hearsaltime, for example, the cast 
of The Mousetrap has had thirty- 
five years to get it right, but oth­
ers, like The Merchant of Venice 
rely on the single star performer 
to carry the show. Thus far I have 
only encountered one production, 
M. Butterfly, which has gotten to­
gether a star leading performer 
(Anthony Hopkins) with a tal­
ented supporting cast, an inter­
esting set and an intelligent script.
Given all of these problems, I 
have resorted to the aforemen­
tioned sport of character actor 
spotting. For example, Anthony 
Hopkins is a respectable star, but 
who would have known that one 
of his supporting performers 
would be Don Fellows? Don Fel­
lows is, of course, the man who 
wrote himself into immortality 
and a trivial pursuit card by ut­
tering the line “what exactly is 
the staff of Ra” in Raiders ofthe 
Lost Ark. M. Butterfly is not the 
only production featuring 
Lucasfilm alumni. Everybody 
knows that Dustin Hoffman is 
currently playing Shylock in The 
Merchant of Venice — but who 
wouldhave guessed that this very 
same production also features 
Michael Carter. Although in 
Merchant of Venice Carter plays 
the Prince of Dragon, dedicated 
movie buffs will remember him 
as the nefarious Bib Fortuna — 
henchman to the vile gangster 
Jabba the Hut in Return of the 
Jedi. Really dedicated couch po­
tatoes may also remember him as 
Molasar, the evil, body-building 
phantom from the film version of
The Keep.
Another character actor who 
may be best remembered for a 
fantasy role is Michael Gough. 
Although he is currently essay­
ing the role of Firs, the footman in 
Checkhov’s The Cherry Orchard. 
Gough is probably best remem­
bered as Alfred Pennyworth — 
Bruce Wayne’s footman in Bat­
man. It’s a sad thing, but more 
people watched Batman during 
any given minute of the past 
summer than will probably see 
The Cherry Orchard during its 
entire London run. But then 
again, more people will probably 
see The Cherry Orchard during 
its entire London run than will 
ever see the film version of The 
Keep. There is some justice, how­
ever twisted and fickle, in the 
world after all.
As I already mentioned, the big 
musicals are sadly lacking in the 
character actor department. 
While Miss Saigon does feature 
Jonathan Pryce (who appeared 
for all of two minutes in Jumpin' 
Jack Flash as Jumpin’ Jack 
Flash), Pryce was the star of Terry 
Gilliam’s Brazil and therefore is 
beyond criticism. Of course, if I 
had made it to London a few weeks 
earlier I might have caught the 
musical version of Metropolis — 
featuring Brian Blessed. Now, 
come on! Anybody with a video 
club membership will recognize 
Brian Blessed as Vultan, king of 
the Hawkmen in Flash Gordon 
(the same film that gave us Shake- 
spearean actor and current 007, 
Timothy Dalton, as Prince Barin 
of Arboria). Had I arrived three 
years ago, I would have had the 
(slim) chance of seeing Michael 
Crawford as the phantom. Of 
course, had Michael Crawford not 
landed the role of the phantom, 
he would have still lived on (at 
least in my head anyway) as the 
heroic star of the epic Condor- 
man. How the mighty have fallen.
The most exciting character
Javi is a junior professional 
writing major who is spending 
the year in London watching as 
many productions as he can fit 
into his busy schedule.
Pita House!6 8 2 -82 1 1
!Nbb )0Ivlm1Cb 4bD1gbN8 ddUc735 Copeland St., Shadyside
Aet Stufâ tyouK 'Peta
• Tiirkey Breast
• Tuna Salad
• Ham & Cheese
• Gyros
• Humos
• Baba
• Falafel
• Fresh Salads
• Assorted Pastries & 
Pies
The Office of Student Activities 
invites students, faculty, and staff to 
participate in the
HOLIDAY FAIR
on December 1 from 10:00 a.m. to 7:00 p.m. 
in the Skibo lobby. 
The Holiday Fair is an effort to bring the talent of 
Carnegie Mellon artists and craftsmen to the campus 
community in time for the holiday gift giving season. 
Reservations for tables will be accepted at the 
Information Desk until November 29.
STUDENT 
SENATE
On the Agenda...
••Postering Policies• •
•who should be allowed to poster? •how many posters per bulletin board? •other issues concerning postering on campus. 
All interested parties are encouraged to attend.
When : Tuesday, November 17 
7:00pm 
Where: Wherrett Room

---------------------------------------------------

)Filb i.Nm.I h p.NIb91b tbDDuI h dF fugbCebN dy,y
Dexter the Unwise makes his predictions for the upcoming week
By DEXTER T. KOBAYASHI
Tartan Asst. Features Editor
The following is a horoscope 
written by the great, mystic Dex, 
who is not really an astrologer.
People born in the month of 
December: You were born in a 
cold month. I don’t like cold. I’m 
from California and I like warm. 
Now I’m in Pittsburgh and it’s 
cold, so I’m cold — real cold. And 
I’m pissed — real pissed. There­
fore, you will die. Sorry, that’s the 
way it goes.
People born around Janu­
ary: You know, I’m still pissed 
'.about it being so cold here in Pitts­
burgh. The admissions people 
•never mention this stuff in the
¦ catalogs they send. Oh sure... they
¦ tell you all about the great facili­
ties they have an d h ow wonderful 
the professors are — and I think 
they really do a great job! (I sure 
hope that they read this) — but 
they never mention the weather. 
Therefore, you too shall bite the 
galactic dust.
People born a little later: Ok,
ok ... I think that I’ve vented out 
all my frustrations about it being 
so cold. So I’ll let you live and 
meet a really great person of the 
opposite sex later on this week. 
Nah, I think I’m still mad about 
the weather. You too shall move 
on from this materialistic realm 
we call life.
People born in March: 
Enough about the weather. At 
3:27 pm at your front door, there 
will be a package with the myste­
rious initials of a past lover writ­
ten across it in blood. Within the 
package you will find an ear of the 
said loved one and a large fish. Of 
course, the future’s kinda fuzzy 
so I may be a bit inaccurate.
Beings with a birthdate that 
begins with 4: Do not worry 
about the test you have failed.
You could have done much worse. 
As you will find out next week....
If you were born in the 
merry month of May: A small 
ban d of forest creatures will come 
in and steal your food. Then they 
will take your radio. Next, they 
will hold your textbooks hostage. 
Be kind to them and they will tell 
you how to cheat on taxes.
June: Don’t let your financial 
affairs overwhelm you. If you are 
not careful, your bankbook will 
bounce like a pig in heat.
July: I like July. Julyiswarm. 
The only problem with July is 
that you get all sorts of smog in 
LA around that time. But that’s 
all right, I lived in smog for many 
years. Smog is my friend. Smog 
kept me company when I was 
alone. People who were bom in 
the month of my friend, Smog,
will receive an unexpected phone 
call from a friend from the past. 
The call will be long distance and 
collect. Don’t accept the charges 
because he will want to borrow 
money.
August arrivals: Watch out 
for toxic dust bunnies.
People in September butnot 
on days that are even mul­
tiples of 3 beginning with 1 
and not ending with 8: You will 
suffer indescribable amounts of 
bodily and mental pain. But this 
too shall pass. What will not pass 
are the markings that develop on 
strange parts of your body....
Other people born in Sep­
tember: You will have a very 
good week. Things will go right 
for you and you will meet the 
most incredible person of the 
opposite sex. You will also do well
in all your classes. (Guess when 
was born.)
People bomlastmonth: Wei 
looks like your life will reach 
tumingpoint this week. Ifthin| 
have been going badly for y0„ 
this week will be much better, 
things have been going good, wej 
... it sucks to be you.
People bom this month: Thi 
month will be good and bad. 
will be good because you will j 
well in your academic life, soci' 
life, and financial life. It will b 
bad because your happiness wi 
only last until fate discovers hi 
mistake and sets you back ont 
your miserable pathetic excus 
for a life. But try to maintain 
positive outlook.
Dexter T. Kobayashi is a fresh 
man in CIT.
SAE brother wins Mr. Fraternity contest
photo by Dan Giurca 
Marty Blazer won the Mr. 
Cogeniality title.
By BIDISHA MUKHERJEE
Tartan Staffwriter
“The point is not to win, it is to 
have fun because it’s for charity,” 
said Pi Lambda Phi’s Art Semen- 
telli. On Friday night, Kappa 
Alpha Theta presented its third 
annual Mr. Fraternity contest.
The contest is a pageant con­
sisting of competitions in 
beachwear, talent, toga, and for­
mal. The contestants this year 
represented twelve fraternities.
During the formal wear compe­
tition, each contestant was es­
corted across the stage by mem­
bers of Kappa Alpha Theta, Kappa 
Kappa Gamma, Chi Omega, and 
Delta Delta Delta.
The talent competition was a 
variety show with acts such as 
Beta Theta Pi’s Marty Blazer’s 
Madonna lip sync and Delta 
Upsilon’s Bago Vunic’s demon­
stration of the human Veg-a-mat.
The event is held to sponsor the 
Karin Johnson Asthma Fund. 
Johnson was a Theta sister who 
died during Thanksgiving break 
in 1984 of a severe asthma attack. 
Following her death, Johnson’s 
parents set up a fund in her name 
to support research of Sudden 
Asthma Death Syndrome, a con­
dition that affects children, ado­
lescents, and young adults with 
histories of manageable asthma. 
Jen Kochanowski, the event’s di­
rector, said that the organizers 
expect to raise over $1000 for the 
fund. This year’s contest, like last 
year’s, was standing room only.
The winner for Mr. Congenial­
ity was Beta Theta Pi’s Marty 
Blazer; second place went to Ted 
Yip from Pi Kappa Alpha; and 
the new Mr. Fraternity is Dave 
Ostrowski from Sigma Alpha Ep­
silon.
The Nads win the Sex Bowl in two rounds
By JILL DENESVICH
Tartan Staffwriter
Did you ever realize Gene Simmons’s tongue is 
seven inches long; that the second most common 
sexual position is woman superior; and not only 
is alcohol the number one drug in the United 
States, but it is classified as a food because it con­
tains calories? These were just, a few of the 
questions that were asked during the “Sex, Drugs,
& Rock n Roll Bowl.” This quiz bowl was one of 
the events held during Relationships Week, 
sponsored by the Housing Office.
Area coordinator, Cindy Sammons said that 
the bowl has been held for a few years and it gets 
“bigger and bigger every year.” There were 23 
teams this year. Each area in Housing held play­
offs during the week, and on Thursday the four 
winners, the Oompaloompas from Eastside, the 
Grunties from Mudge/Oakland/Shadyside, the 
Nads from the Hill, and the Temptations from 
Morewood, gathered in Morrison’s for the cham­
pionship.
Judges Sammons and Mike Fuller presided 
over the competition. Two rounds were played,
photo by Thomas Nichols 
The Nads, from right to left, are Greta Bartlog, Greg 
Landrum, Joe Melvin, Mike Kappas, and Rita Vinod.
with the Nads and the Temptations advancingto 
the final round. The Nads won the final rounrl by' 
a score of 7 - 3.
Joe Melvin and Mike Kappas, members of the 
victorious Nads, gave credit to Greg Landrum for 
answering a good number of the questions. The 
Nads will receive a t-shirt decorated with “SEX, 
DRUGS, and ROCKand ROLL, champs of 1989.”
IT
...Meet your Senators 
...Voice your ideas 
...Get Involved
o
Qo Q 
Æ Ô ? 
¦*% ©°© 
*G
O X * ©
Skibo Wherrett Room 
Friday, 17 November ... 4:30 - 6:30
funded by your activities fee

---------------------------------------------------

AS The MLT PI5M6Y CO. 1IS m&n&HNb TDSVe US \
ag1. im LIII.4DDo useOF MICKEY MOUSe, nTHOUGHT m MIGHT... BR.. I SET THINGS STRAIGHT: K
1928: FC6PGCINC? 
AMERICAN ICON 
WLT PI5NEY 
HIRBS FRATERNAL. 
TWIN PROWERS / MRTAHP 
MICK&V / , 
MOVSZ TO 
V/ORK IN / /
o.4Q4p4g1 / uni 
moving rt
CARTOONS / MJ fW I2t / h 
Am... ^
1939: AFTER 35 F/CAfS, TWO OSCARS 
, AfJP A BUTTOCK TVCK, MICKEY 
L IS AN INTERNATIONAL 5TAR...
MORTIMER CONVNUBS 
TO WORK (JN&ILLBP AS 
HIS BROTHER'S 5TVNT 
\ POUBLS.
Wili®
!W:MORT /'K® 
ENU5T5 IN THE 
AMY AMP IS ^ 
RUN W5R BY ft 
SHERMAN TANK 
NEAR FMRIS...
...WHO, IN 1965, IS 
B6FR/EHPEP 0/AN 
AMBITIOUS YOUNG 
MYSTERY MAN FROM 
THE ACCOUNTING PEPT.
PEC. 15,19(6...
A NEFARIOUS 
PLOT / ..PUSHEP 
ANP CAJOLEP BY 
THE MVRPER0U5 
MYSTERY MAN 
FROM ACCOUNTING, 
MICKEY REPORTS 
A HE ART-
IHeaarAm
SECRET 
WAN AtUNO 
WBAK-HBARTBP
mTP/$Hey/
SAME YEARS BRING BOTH 
SUCCESS ANP REPRESSION 
TO AN INCREASINGLY 
INEAK-W/UEP MICKEY,,.
f T/NKER&EIL\ 
TS HAYING 
icSnig .dxxCo I 
k BABY. >
..BAPLY WGVNPEP, i> 
HE'U. REMAIN IN If 
FRMCE FOR THE I ’ NEXT 25 YEARS. 11;
MR.BUnS RUNS IN­
TO AN OLD FRIEND.WOW... A DRUG PONT YOU
CZAR. WHO'S A LOVE IT? I'M
DRUG ADDICT! ThBLUCKJEST 
4_. / GIPLINTOWN!
1itrA 1immM
IF IT ISN'T
HI, BILLY 
BOYI SORRY 
TM LATE!
CHIU. OUT, LOVER. 
I BUMPED INK) 
AN OLP FRIEND 
L OF YOURS.
OH,
YEAH? 
WHO’S 
THAT? \
OH... SORRY. 
MISS NICKIE.
IPIPN7 MEAN 
YOU PERSONALLY..
... WHILE BACK IN HIS OFFICE, HE 
SPENDS ALL PA Y CHOMPING ON 
AN ALKALOID SO POISONOUS IT'S 
COMMONLY U5EPA5 INSECTICIDE!
WHAT A BIZARRE TURN OF 
EVENTS 1I MEAN, HERB'S THE 
NATION'S DRUGCZAR0YERSEE1NG 
A MUL7I-BIUION-POLLAR EFFORT 
TO PREVENT PEOPLE FROM USING 
DANGEROUS 
DRUGS...
I BB6 YOUR 
PARDON!
THE DIVINE
MISS N/
WHERE WASHINGTON, 
YOU OFF BUTTSi! COTTA 
TO, SWEET VISIT BILL STUFF? BEN-\ ~wrr
/
WILLIAM 40 MGS. A PAY! HE'S 
BENNETT POING ALMOST AS 
CHEWS MUCH NICOTINE NOW 
NICOTINE AS WHEN HE SMOKED! 
GUM*
BY G . B . TRUDEAU
I MS READING, ABOUT HOW 
COUNTLESS SPECVES ARE. 
BEING PUSHED TOWARD 
EXTINCTION B1 MANS
ANDPRKIPG.f .y y.RNDPDo
BILLYBOY! I HEARD THE 
NEWS FROM MISS NICKIE' 
I'M 5000 SORRY YOU'RE 
STILL APPICTED TO
NICOTINE!
IT APPEARS TO BE 
ClGNR. BUTTS IN 
A GALLSTONE 
SAUCE.
WHAT ABOUT HE STILL IS. BUT 
LETS FACE IT— 
HOW MUCH BUZZ 
CAN YOU GET 
FROM A SUCKER!
U\ SUS\E. V4HM D\D YOO 
BR\NG FOR LUNCH TO DM ?
A SYUSS CHEESE 
AND KETCHUP
DuAnKIKo e
ITS MX YERX RELAX, SUSIE. 
FNMOR\TE,TCO, I BOUGHT 
3D I DON'T THE CAPETEWA 
WKNT TO WEAR LUNCH TCDM. WUW GROSS 
TH\NG YOU 
BROUGHT.
50 HE NO, OUT IN 
CHEWS THE OPEN. I'M
YOU...ON AFRAID MISS 
THE SLY? LOLLY IS A BIT
OF A DOORMAT.
SURPRISE1 BUTTS! WHAT 
I ARE YOU DOING
IWU HERE* I THOUGHT m/m 1 TOLD YOU TO 
Wm STAY THEHEILCUT
z&m 'ïel
I JUST WANT TO ITS OKAY, 
TALK, MR. BILL. BABY. IF IT 
NO TOUCHING, GET5ROU6H,
NO PUFFING, I'M HERE
YOU.
IT’S SAD HCW SOME PEOPLE 
CAKT HANDLE A LUTl£ MARlETr
GOSH, MIS6 NtCKJE! NOT AT ALL. 
YOU 'RE REALLY OFF TM SURE 
TO SEE BILL BEN- HE'D LOVE 
NETT? MIND TO SEE YOU 
’ I IF I TAG AGAIN! |
I ALONG? ' —
I CANT BELIEVE THAT MAY
THE CZAR'S STILL BE, BUT HE 
A NICOTINE APPtCT! REACHES FOR 
HE'S BEEN ON THE ME TWENTY 
MB SINCE MARCH! TIMES A PAY.
WHERE 
THE HELL 
HAVE YOU 
BEEN ? I'VE 
GONE THROUGH 
30 LOLLYPOPS 
WATTING 
FOR YOU!
HOW MANY DEATHS A YEAR 
DID THE SURGEON GENERAL 
IMPLICATE ME IN? ABOUT 
395,000, RIGHT? AND £ 
YET SOCIETY HAS LEARNEPTOUVE -CJT: 
WITH ME AND /Mk 
MY COSTS!
BILL, BILL! LOOK AT YOURSELF, 
MAN! APPICTEP TO NICOTINE 
AT THE SAME TIME YOU'RE 
THROWING THOUSANDS 
IN JAIL FOR USING ,
A PRUG FAR LE&S 
DANGEROUS THAN t 
TOBACCO!
MEANWHILE, POOR MR. JAY 
DOESNT HAVE A SINGLE PEATH 
TO HIS CREPTT, AND YOU SPEND 
BILLIONS TAILING 
TO ERADICATE
HIM! WHAT 
GIVES? >
YOU'RE AN ADDICT! THE FACT 
THAT YOUR DRUG OF CHOICE 
IS LEGAL, AND ANOTHER CAN 
5END YOUTO JAIL.IS A\N 
^ ACCIDENT OF 
HISTORY f
LETS STOP DRIVING ADDICTS 
UNDERGROUND AND START 
HELPING THEM! GET OUT AHEAP 
OF THE CURVE, BILL! ITS TIME 
TO FORMULATE /=r^71
POUCY FOR. .
THE POST- ^
PROHIBITION / /
ERA! k
CMON, BILLYBOY, WARE UP 
AND SMELL THE SMOKE! HA5N 7 
YOUR OWN INABILITY TOGO 
STRAIGHT TAUGHT YOU 
ANYTHING* \
THAT'S A POSSIBILITY, 
HONEY.
OVER MY DEAD 
BODY.
Calvin and Hobbes is a daily feature in the Pittsburgh Press.Doonesbury is a daily feature in the Pittsburgh Post Gazette.

---------------------------------------------------

The
Far
Side
ByGaryLarson
Another great moment in evolution.
TELEWWIE-
“You guys are both witnesses ... He laughed when my marshmallow caught on tire.”“Relax, Jerry!... He probably didn't know you were an elephant when he told that last joke!"
The Far Side is a daily feature in llie Pittsburgh Post Gazette.
IflUHEM 10VES reOt>Vv\ \'\V\
EStftfE HSoW\ KV.LHTPsKZ,!
Q !0II8 s08PBy Mike, TAJ 
and Bill
iMte-Ûi OTHEfk 0/W -------
mssesM *****
l*T uJAS CoUcûP T~/oiJ oP ~Th1f MiUtr*Ji
1Uei *Dvt.o 1Uei* Dvt verDUTATB
SMAu>
Westrn
\ Tmr \ MA&esI ASt£// vitim I
KPJLyv*jl£c J
______ ji--------So^è WcWT 10 bfArf ^ 
OZMA&- ASfóD Ip vJg ¿oJt,0 OHAvJ 
A £T£iP. -njfsrtiiP. So tBtfs u 
Hi TAW Bi eSB LAUtt A*JJ) 
'«"* that m B£t*j££jj%*f?M»Me-'
’SZSrZy***’*'"*
}° ACrt%ih
¦" qeuànlia
H/, - ''6i
tS5SSsW8',*.S!i^«
yDw v/ith me i jfeffiyiia;
« veaeTAoL 3„,
IWftY flv£wT6#4M0® ,,J ¦fMW-oBftiH*
J,H,
jo, fues H ojjf. TftivwpW w«|f)
Tw«.y/I£ftf vf‘,r' <>KPOfiNgLiVq fti'N'0|,A To afT
ux4t l,r,,i r*
Girt fao ?£ ''WenpKvi-OfOoFnicpL^sr\i We h1lEs03 
tr \Vfls TitAB^J}E sTaip- , .
' H r UK£ TQfMtiCMQSPLvoAjjtDAMg.'
’-i~ K^QMTS i/o H£MŸXi*vP
«*. STu™ “ ^
,M r"i ^' “**•<& ¿T
"T0P-/O c
'/'AJ fl/oT GrotuG- T° C-lvf Yov Kjo ItloosAtiV UicKols. “
phonetics, WAcrdme,
people who are 5eoSit“« ny 
fe*-ltnjSt3 playful Kitten an a 
Sommers ^toPj car^n.
o#5: htter overuei^ht bam-j^ 
being cJvrjeJ-PoT
pKonc Sex’, crff-colo^ rema«*KS( Bobbl^
<3nj noiAj -
^rüjjcx^W^
AHDXooL/
olum % ©aw %ara 2) Jcoii Wwii
SMauw 
HAtîMEWj 
i-THiKit 1-r
-nIAf Voi> 
K^/oW- I’M 
-rHE^h/p| 6ohi^ of
¿mf
A6 fbe.^ 
iMrAfioi/
fo"iiwr *
6KW'...
jâSHWii.
hio-r I !

---------------------------------------------------

¦r ^ 
if
^ 1!o^r K-woa-S co^rinut -ft? Tf^c/^e'
ii-|oWaai$ h^pyiown.-
3. nevk/ JM Vnoie, |
boiibef +H*-5- ^ h°w £,°:
^ eaT So r^och.
£ Biob(»'',S mo*v* iS =>. jicre. 
-ft 1^5 own %&C$aca.l St*’ro°-£'^ “ 
J(mtn$ton. x“OvN•it$. Rb b.o6 \$
Lou-knee. By Lou Heniy
CY KLOPZ'S EYE CA*t

---------------------------------------------------

Uw,wKePÆ Rv4 voo aovMt,,Carneg ~X m GoiMfr TO ócxeMuev 
TOR MV OA-IL-V R.Urj/
IFHE'S &OIM& TD BE 
Def=&ODiN&- this- CouNrrR.Y; Tm (vso/iNjCr Tb iMlo Gee.rwvjy¡,
LAT6R... pSo WHAT'D vou Be TOOCiV, fM“ T
' Weu_, ft 8-1ih fo FReeöo^- MiMCseo, cotvisciG^Ti^us 
ACTIvyiST FRI CMOS OF IM\MÇ 
H&-D Ol (=u=h=t-BuRiOimG- OtO 
TH6 C vrr.
bRal THAT WHAT TVtAT WP&"? .' 
T1dlceP LIKE P, RIOTÍlMe«6 HW
TD se SO PeopLE pi&htw& TMÇfçei.
Klo, BFa' y.kc89
hDb sovs., “teesd bFMo Xn^x/ei
B0’w weee gF' u­Fm4,9
Ca Tvie Cor rnegiM l
j»y gzfe ,~3R’ ,Dea<, & G-efigy
STüflDC^M - UUS1
-collegiate crossword-
i23456'78
9
101112là14
1516
1718
19
lì
¿0
21*
2J
24
25J2t
27
li
2829
30
::32
3335
36
S37¦
38
«
4213
44&
46
47
Ü0
feL
53
6405
ACROSS43Canadian province 
(abbr.)
11Of a particular 
race or culture
1Houston ball park44 Syrian city (var.)12Woman's name or
10Bondmen45Poker term'20s song
15Room on the anterior46British elevators13Traffic warnings
part of a ship47Texas's nickname14 Most mentally sound
16 Early Latin version(2 wds.)18 Part of ship's name
of the Scriptures49 Hay to obtain money 22 French friends
17Star of 1926 Ben Hur(2 wds.)25 Length times width
(3 wds.)50Member of26Is unwell
19-------- oculi (eyefamous acting28 Catch sight of
muscle)family (2 wds.)29 Sleeveless garment
20 Setting for "Hamlet"52Willow31 Hydrocarbons found
21Roller used in53Small airplanein solvents
printing(hyph.)32Foundation
22Fusses54In itself: Lat.33Sheet music symbol
23Chemical suffixes55 Nanny(2 wds.)
24 Equipment34Exhausts
25Of an amideDOWN35 Applies wall
26"------- of thousands!"coating
27 Apt., dorm., etc.1Fill with fear37Actor Art --------
28 The Emerald Isle2Pain39Fast gait
29 By way of3 Railroad inventory40Girl's name
30 Disease-carrying4Tenant or landlord41Painter of "Rowers'
fl ies5HappenLuncheon"
32Hotel employee6 Raised platform42 Mired (3 wds.)
36Pollution control7 No longer in use43 Military rank
agency(abbr.)45Baseball city
37 The Bay State8Blended with(abbr.)
(abbr.)(2 wds.)46Stratum
38 Asiatic tent9In one lump (2 wds.)48 Dried up
39Madison's VP10 Spanish equivalent49Irish-Gaelic
42 Adjectival suffixof "oui, oui"51Accelerate
ÌÌ0Q0 0B000 0000 D0QO ????? BBD0 
0000ISISÍEI0ISI0EIÍ353I31I3I BBS ¡3000 0&2ÖS000000 011000 63530000 oeìbb saiaDQEIDI!) QEII9EI9 QUE] QQEIQ 00000 9QQQ ODQ 0Q0G1Q 00000 000 0BB0 0000190 00O0O 00000 00000 0000 000 EIE 0510] HESS® ÜTI5350 03 ?000 0O00E3 0000 D000 0Q00B 0000
These are the answers 
to last issue’s puzzle.
) Edward Julius Collegiate CW83-8
da ikVH THIS Y5N7JKn WKn LAST Y9xK"ikbfJ
'YX7/ f Hey, >6u know 9VS ( zjp-A-ToA/e „
pANW FAWS
HALT'. WHO . Goes TueRe1I 8Ü' U W ^nap TWrf 5HOULts ' E SI El ^ have feeeN WRiT-resi \ ¦ Trie wee« before, inWHICH ¿t/CK AND A BUNCM of QTrieR people s-roue a p.x6L8 tank.
Trtg SToueM oMnu asdFLl THÇ TRAU.C HeADQUARTeRS AT THE WASMH&ToH MpHUMSNT.
/¡veiaAem“mc ¦sor to Think* . up a seT-reR,
. Line ONE OF" 
? hikxPb Mq2H•Jyoc/MoveTHE 56AT UP, ,
........ WATM //or" &OOV PLAN! I^r^KNow au. about jneevt Tpfanxnw,arp, Plovs! foriam TheIvh yLyag uhSprein i
BRwN 999999999999999aw,,, cm 40ReTURN'M6 FROM _ PATROLAReM'T----—VOU BACK VCIMPof Ax.6NgdTTN
OH, OKAV, > .¦>toU fMV PASS.Fsl wet-L., > I L.BFT THecoppe Aoap on>
WySoFG"?
/SUPPeNLY 
/A SHIK1V '/ FI6UR6 XIÇAVS OIXT/m. / OF A NIFT/ //r < ClRCUt -PANÊL.../W \
IN LISP. IT IS THe LAM6UA6e OF ARTIFICIAL ^. /ArreLL/ç.eÀ/ce,L ybiA vc(4oW. V

---------------------------------------------------

THEARNH©°N
Wilson does it aeain...
Hear America Singing is 
ruly spectacular
Vlusical features top-notch singing, terrific performances
Jy TERRI KASCH
Vartan Staffwriter
' I Hear America Singi, ig gives 
inly the best to its audience. The 
vork of some of the top composers 
ind poets of this century is com­
bined with the energy and talent 
if CFA’s musical theater students 
p produce this smash hit.
: Director and Choreographer 
iilly Wilson conceived the idea of 
i musical revue that celebrates 
America. Because he was able to 
ihoose the show’s numbers, 
Vilson managed to select those 
¡ongs and poems which best 
implement the range of talent in 
he cast.
' There are only 11 performers in 
his production, but through light- 
ling-quick changes of costumes 
designed by Diane Collins) and a 
emarkable range of characters, 
he cast manages to give the 
mpression that there are at least 
¡0 people in the show.
The best example of this diver­
ity is shown by senior Suzette 
iarie Anderson, who portrays a 
nimpy seamstress who dreams 
ibout the glamour of celebrity in 
The Grass Is Always Greener.” 
Anderson gets big laughs in this 
lumber but goes on to sing one of 
heshow’s most heart-wrenching 
ongs, “When The End Comes.” 
landing in a single white spot- 
and wearing a tattered white 
fress, Anderson tells of the post- 
jiuclearholocaustgeneration.She 
pngs the piece with a voice that’s
light and painfully sweet, perfect 
for the subject matter. She fur­
ther enhances the somber mood 
of the song with her calm manner 
and an ironic trace of a smile.
Few of the songs are as cheer­
less as that one. “He’ll Bring You 
Out,” one of the most enjoyable 
numbers, has senior Michael 
McElroy as an evangelist pound­
ing on a church piano while the 
rest of the cast belts out the gos- 
pel’tune. Junior Ty Taylor does a 
marvelous turn as a spectator 
overcome with the emotion of the 
moment.
This revue is packed with de­
lightful characters. Senior Mark 
K. Lewis gives a brilliant per­
formance as the aging Joe, a re­
tired man who lounges in his over- 
stuffed chair, wistfully remem­
bering the good old days. Senior 
Eileen Kaden shines as a cynical 
lush who minces no words as she 
bitches about the “Ladies Who 
Lunch,” a Sondheim classic. In 
the lighthearted “Disneyland,” 
junior Jeffrey Kubiatowicz por­
trays a man who defends his 
dream of becoming an inhabitant 
of the magical kingdom.
Senior April Greaves plays the 
object of Anderson’s envy in “The 
Grass Is Always Greener.” As the 
arrogant and condescending star, 
Greaves displays much insight 
regarding the woman’s jaded and 
insincere personality.
The singing in this show could 
not be better. Senior Kena Tangi 
Dorsey thrills the audience from
the moment she opens her mouth. 
In James Taylor’s “Millwork,” 
Dorsey’s talent is given full expo­
sure as she brings dignity to her 
melancholy character.
Similarly, McElroy (who was 
the assistant musical director for 
the show, as well as an ensemble 
member) plays a homosexual 
pretending to be straight in the 
heartbreaking song, “The Games 
I Play.” McElroy’s voice is so rich 
that it completely fills the theater 
and seems to threaten to break 
through the walls at any second.
Junior W. Ellis Porter, whose 
voice is nothing less than spec­
tacular, cuts loose as he leads the 
ensemble in “If I Could Have 
Been.” Watching Porter is a joy, 
because throughout the show he 
appears to be having the time of 
his life.
Cast members also do recita­
tions of various poems. Senior 
Vanita Harbour becomes a brash 
and sensual woman in her in­
spired interpretation of Ntzoke 
Shangi’s “Lady In Red.”
Finally, the dancingin this show 
is first-rate. While every cast 
member does his or her share of 
dancing, the most memorable 
number is a spicy, sensual dance 
senior Melanie Shulman performs 
with Kubiatowicz.
This cast also works wonder­
fully as a group. There are many 
powerful voices in the revue and 
yet, in the ensemble pieces, no 
single person can be heard stand­
ing out from the others. Instead,
they mesh perfectly. Credit must 
go to Sound Designer Michael 
Sharon for finessing the tricky 
acoustics of the Kresge to fit this 
unique blend of voices.
As the director, Wilson man­
ages never to lose the element of 
surprise; often, he throws the au­
dience a curve by showcasing a 
new side of a performer. During 
the first act, Taylor sings as a 
member of the company. There 
was little warning that in the 
second act he would light up the 
stage for a full five minutes with 
his passionate solo, “Pity The 
Child.”
Wilson employs every device at 
his disposal to create the proper 
mood. Slides are often projected 
onto the back wall of the theater 
during numbers. Other special 
effects, like an eerie breeze dur­
ing “When The End Comes,” are 
used effectively. The spare, post­
modern set (designed by Mark 
Worthington) and the lighting 
(designed by Steven L. George) 
also compliment the performers 
without distracting from them.
The result is a sleek, profes­
sional production packed with 
emotion, dazzle, and plenty offun. 
No matter what mood you are in, 
no matter what music you like, 
there is something for you at I 
Hear America Singing.
Carnegie Mellon Drama 
presents I Hear America Singing. 
The show runs through Satur­
day. Call the CFA box office at 
x2407 for ticket information.
Above: Suzette Marie 
Anderson and April 
Greaves in the midst of 
“The Grass Is Always 
Greener.”
Right: Mark K. Lewis 
singing his heart out for 
his “Proud Lady."
photos by Dan Giurca ¡f||
Left: The ensemble in 
the opening number: (I 
to r) Melanie Shulman, 
W. Ellis Porter, April 
Greaves, Michael 
McElroy, Ty Taylor.
Right: Suzette Marie 
Anderson performs the 
song “When The End 
Comes.”
Left: Kena Tangi Dorsey captures the audience’s heart with her rendition of 
“Millwork.”
Below: Mark K. Lewis and Eileen Kaden share a laugh at the expense of “The 
Ladies Who Lunch.”
Right: April Greaves keeps a stiff upper lip as she sings “Charity’s Soliloquy.”

---------------------------------------------------

LIOThe Tartan • Carnegie Mellon • 14 November 1989
Starlight Express skates into the Benedum
By STEPHEN GLICKER
Tartan Asst. Diversions Editor
The Pittsburgh Broadway Se­
ries will be presenting a two week 
run of the theatrical extravaganza 
Starlight Express from Novem­
ber 21 through December 3 at the 
Benedum Center. Express was 
written by the Tony and Grammy 
award-winning composer Andrew 
Lloyd Webber CPhantom of the 
Opera, Cats, Evita) with lyrics by 
Richard Stilgoe. Arlene Phillips, 
who choreographed Express in 
London and on Broadway, di­
rected and choregraphed the 
national touring company produc­
tion of the show.
Starlight Express was inspired 
by Andrew Lloyd Webber’s long­
time fascination with trains. The 
result is an extraordinary musi­
cal production where the actors 
literally throw themselves into 
the audience and the set comes 
alive with movement, lights, and 
sound.
The physical production of Star­
light Express is remarkable. The 
set, which weighs over 50 tons, 
features high-tech skating bank
photo by Jonnie Miles/courtesy Pittsburgh Broadway Series 
Reva Rice as Pearl, Ron DeVito as Greaseball and Dawn Marie Church 
as Ashley in 420S.CRA2 IGOSnaaP
curves which allow the actors to 
reach speeds of 20 miles per hour 
on roller-skates. In addition, the 
production features a huge ramp
that extends 44 feet into the thea­
ter, over 11,350 lights, high-pow­
ered argon and krypton laser 
beams, film projections on giant
screens, and quadraphonic com- 
puter-controlled sound. Just to 
get the set to Pittsburgh will 
require eight 45-foot tractor trail­
ers.
The multi-talented 37-member 
cast of Starlight Express includes 
some members of the original 
Broadway cast. Each cast mem­
ber is able to sing, act, and dance, 
and can skate as well. To truly 
appear like trains, each member 
skates and races around the thea­
ter, up and down ramps. In addi­
tion, each member wears original 
costumes which look like trains 
and cost between $10,000 and 
$22,000 each.
Tickets for Starlight Express are 
priced at $40, $37, $33, and $28 
for Tuesday through Sunday 
evenings at 8 pm. Matinees on 
Saturdays and Sunday at 2 pm 
are priced at $36.50, $33.50, 
$29.50 and $22.50.
Tickets can be purchased at the 
Benedum Center Box Office, all 
Kaufmann’s and Horne's ticket 
outlets, and TJX. Tickets can also 
be purchased by telephone by call­
ing 456-6666.
S'n’S performs 
two student plays
photos by Dan Giurca 
Scotch ‘n’ Soda presented two 
student works, reGnc is by 
Nancy Gleason and IonSH uet0sfa 5CRA2:H Beth Cronise, 
last Friday night In the Wherrett 
Room.
Above: Michael T. Rose, Heidi 
Hoover, Lisandrea Gierlach, and 
Craig Allan Gottlieb in IonSH uet0spa 5CRA2P
Right: Kari Ann Shiff and Sean 
Thomas McGill in reGnc isP
features high-tech skating bank production features a huge ramp beams, film projections on giant ing 456-6666. ....  ...............           ....
Epileptic seizures abound — Nice Strong Arm is coming to town
By DAN BEDWA is the point where a lot of other bands, but I can’t with two live tunes from Mind fragile sort of sound thatBy DAN BDOWA
Tartan Senior Staffwriter
Nice Strong Arm is coming to 
the Upstage next Sunday. Since 
you now know about it so far in 
advance, you’ll have plenty of time 
to get any interferences out of the 
way. The only reason this isn’t 
another must-see show isbecause 
Nice Strong Arm tours quite a bit. 
Then again, the same could have 
been said about the Minutemen (I 
said it) and look what happened 
to them. Do you really want to be 
stuck again?
Nice Strong Arm doesn’t sound
Music...
Music...
much like the Minutemen, al­
though they have the same lineup 
of guitar, bass, and drums. The 
drummer is the only one who 
stands still. Expect to see some 
collisions on the Upstage’s stage.
What do they sound like? (This
is the point where 
I throw out a bunch 
of futile compari­
sons that everyone 
always disagrees 
with anyway, so 
feel free to jump to 
the next para­
graph.) They re­
mind me of Live 
Skull, only not so artsy. They 
remind me of Unrest, only not so 
eclectic. The guitarist reminds me 
of an epileptic seizure. Shit, I 
dunno, I guess they remind me of 
the Minutemen too, without the 
bass noodling. They remind me of
a lot of other bands, but I can’t 
decide whether it’s because of the 
way they sound or because I like 
them. Things get kind of blurry. 
Anyway, they’re on my “see when­
ever and as much as possible” 
list, for whatever that’s worth. 
The show should start around 7:30 
pm Sunday, probably less late 
than normal. Thumper will be 
opening, their second gig in as 
many weeks. Check it out.
If you want a better idea of 
what Nice Strong Arm sounds 
like, they have two LPs out (Real­
ity Bath and Mind Furnace), one 
seven-incher, and one new EP
with two live tunes from Mind 
Furnace and two new tunes from 
their upcoming LP all on a slab of 
hideously purple wax. (There are 
some colors that records shouldn’t 
be, and this is one of them.) The 
new songs are great, the live songs 
are live, and the whole affair is a 
limited edition sort of thing, so I 
guess you’d better hurry.
Other events on the new wax 
front include a possible reissue of 
the Young Marble Giants’ Colos­
sal Youth LP. The album came 
out a few years ago on Rough 
Trade, and promptly disappeared. 
The Young Marble Giants have a
fragile sort of sound that the) 
patch together with keyboard: 
and pleasantly rough guitars (bu 
only a little). The reissue is onl’ 
possible because nobody at thi 
end of the line knows whether th 
record has actually been rere 
leased (the “new” version looks 
exactly like the original), o 
whether somebody just found 
batch of them in some warehouse 
The latter would sound mOralik 
a pipe dream if not for the Ifac 
that it happened last month wtl 
the first Mission Of Burma sevei 
inch. Grab it if you can, because i 
might not be there for long.
i*PAYLESS
CAR RENTAL
ALSO DBA HOLIDAY' PAYLESS' RENT-A-CAR
• Local Customer Pick-Up & Delivery Available
• Low Daily-Weekly Rates
• Weekend Specials
• Students over 21 with Major Credit Card or Parent's Credit Card
• fill nrtpr.jiion* Ac'nts Tim U r. Ana Cinta*
Dial Toll Free 800 237-2804
15 PASSENGER VANS 
& MINI - VANS
PAW FSS 521-5700
—. \ yi /—v r-\ r— N i~T~A I Merge Rent A CarGnn RENTAL 56°o wiikins Ave. pgh, pa
I Al SO DBA ue8e4. »AYlESS t(Squirrel Hill)
FLU SHOTS
WHERE: Skibo, Room 112
WHEN: Friday, November 17th
TIME: 11:00 a.m. - 6 p.m.
WHO: Available to faculty, staff, students. CMU I.D. will be
required.
Recommended for:
1. Individuals 55 years of age and older.
2. Individuals with chronic lung or heart problems including asthma.
3. Individuals who have required regular medical follow-up or 
hospitalization during the preceding year because of diseases 
including diabetes, severe kidney problems, or problems with the 
immune system.
4. Individuals who are taking medications that suppress the immune 
system.
5. Teenagers up to and including 18 years of age on long-term aspirin 
therapy.
COST: FREE
SPONSORED BY: Division of Student Affairs
With Macintosh 
you can even do this:
File
New
Open..
Close
Saue
Print... §£P
Quit t
Macintosh8 computers have always been easy to use. But they’ve never 
been this easy to own. Presenting The Macintosh Sale. 
Through January 31, you can save hundreds of dollars on a variety 
of Apple’ Macintosh computers and peripherals. 
So now there’s no reason to settle for an ordinary PC. With Hie 
Macintosh Sale, you can wind up with much more of a computer 
Without spending a lot more money
The Macintosh Sale.
Now through January 31.
CMU Computer Store 
UCC Bldg., A Level
Mon. 8:30-6:30, Tues.-Fri. 10:00-4:30
C yple Computer, lite .ipple. the Apple lcf¡o. and Macintosh an rivistemi tnulemarksojAfiple Computer, Inc

---------------------------------------------------

The Tartan • Carnegie Mellon • 14 November 1989 Lll
Shocker makes it into the Drive-In Hall of Fame
Drama presents Don Quixotte
I’ve noticed in recent weeks that 
®any readers of this column are 
under the impression I’m trying 
tobefunny.ThatmaybeI’m trying 
to get a guest shot on “Live To­
night Only at the Improv Stand- 
up Funnybone Hour.” That I’m 
just another comedian in this 
country that’s gone sicko with
comedians.
Lemme say this once, and I’m 
0jily gonna say it once.
Ifyou’re not here to learn some­
thing, then you can just turn the 
page right now. You can switch 
right over to Art Buchwald and 
Sidney Omarr and laugh your 
little hiney off. It’s hard enough 
doing this job without having a 
lot of insincere people trying to 
get me to deny my journalistic 
principles.
This column is devoted to the 
study of your basic elements in 
American society as reflected in 
your basic American drive-in 
movie. In other words, Blood, 
Breasts, and Beasts.
Except when I forget and write 
about something else.
But most of the time, that’s it. 
It’s a lost cause, but it’s my lost 
cause. And I’m sick and I’m tired 
of people making fun of it, like I’m 
just another Evans and Novak 
geekster, trying to land a talk 
show sponsored by military con­
tractors.
All right, listen up. If you're not 
here to learn, leave the room. 
Today’s topic is, “Great Mass- 
Murderin Maniacs in American 
History.”
1963: Blood Feast: Maniac 
Egyptian caterer Fuad Ramses 
introduces redmeat to the Ameri-
j Joe Bob Goes i 
ÌTo The Drive-In !
Horace. Instead, he 
jumps out of TV sets 
and carves up entire 
families — Mom, tod­
dlers, everybody — 
and then disappears 
back into videoland 
before the blood is dry 
on the baby crib.can diet. First explicit gore movie.
1974: The Texas ChainSaw 
Massacre: Leatherface makes 
cannibalism what it is today.
1978: Halloween: Michael 
Myers fails to kill Jamie Lee 
Curtis and so she lives to make 
Hertz commercials.
1980: Friday the 13th: Jason 
stops the puck.
1984: A Nightmare on Elm 
Street: Freddy Krueger puts on 
the Lee Press-on Knives and hurts 
property values.
And now, today, just as the 
eighties draw to a close, just when 
we thought it was safe to eat 
barbecued pork again, suddenly, 
we have...
Horace Pinker.
Of course, you know what I’m 
talking about.
I’m talking Drive-In Hall of 
Fame.
I’m talking Shocker.
I’ve already seen it 97 times, 
and it still scares me. Wes Cra­
ven, the man who’s created more 
classic splatter flicks than any 
man alive, might of just gone triple 
platinum in the diseased 
meathead maniac department. 
Horace Pinker is even meaner 
than the last guy Wes invented, 
Freddy Krueger. Freddy just 
jumps into kids’ nightmares and 
then rips their eyeballs out. That 
wouldn’t even be interesting to
Not a nice guy.
And the only person that can 
stop him is ... his estranged son 
Jonathan, who has been a little 
detached from his daddy ever since 
Dad carved up Mom and little 
sister while Jonathan was blow­
ing off daddy’s kneecap with a 
shotgun. The child-welfare people, 
for some reason, took Jonathan 
away to a new family, and now 
Jonathan is a big high school 
football star, only he’s been hav­
ing ... well, he has these dreams... 
and what he’s dreaming is that 
this humongous bald-headed TV 
repairman named Horace Pinker 
is killing his new Mom and his 
new brother and his new baby 
sister ... and he is.
Horace decided to do it again.
For the fun of it.
And then Horace decides that, 
oh yeah, there’s one more thing 
he needs to do. Jonathan has this 
girlfriend, see, and... well, by the 
time they catch up to Horace, 
Jonathan is screaming “If they 
give him the chair, I wanna be 
there. I wanna see him die.”
Only that’s what Horace wants, 
too. Horace loves electricity. Ho­
race the bald-headed goon-faced 
TV repairman with a limp and a 
meat cleaver and a little black 
magic that lets him go inside the 
TV beam, get out in any Ameri­
Horace Pinker soaks up the amps
can household he chooses, and 
turn Prime Time into Slime Time.
I’m only gonna tell you one more 
thing about this movie. About 
twenty minutes into it, you’ll be 
ready for it to be over. It won’t be. 
It goes on for two solid hours. In 
order to calm down, you’ll need 
some kind of light romantic com­
edy to watch, maybe something 
starring Freddy Krueger.
Zero nekkid breasts. Twenty- 
four dead bodies. Thirty-two gal­
lons blood. Throat slicing. Lip 
ripping. Heart stabbing. Electric 
chair toasting. Backhoe attack.
Wes Craven's latest 4Aem,nSP
Barcalounger attack. (When they 
say arm chair, they mean arm 
chair.) Zombie chorus. An 89 on 
the Vomit Meter. Lip rolls. Fin­
gers roll. Gratuitous Leave It To 
Beaver. Kung Fu. Goal post Fu. 
Waterbed Fu. Voodoo Fu. TV set 
Fu. Satellite dish Fu. Freeze 
Frame Fu. Drive-In Academy 
Award nominations for Michael 
Murphy, as Jonathan’s cop fa­
ther, for saying "You on drugs or 
what?”; Peter Berg, as Jonathan, 
for saying “We can’t go killing 
people just to get Pinker out of 
their bodies”; Cami Cooper, as
Alison the girlfriend, for getting 
butchered early in the movie but 
finishing the movie; Mitch Pileggi, 
as Horace Pinker, for saying 
“Come on, boy, let’s take a ride in 
my Volts Wagon”; and Wes Cra­
ven, the master, for two of the 
most hellacious chase scenes ever 
filmed, one of the best bloody- 
shower scenes, and a final scene 
you will not believe.
Four stars. Joe Bob says check 
it out.
Joe Bob Briggs is the drive-in 
movie critic of Grapevine, Texas.
©1989 Creators Syndicate.
in
Student Organization Office Space 
Available in Skibo
WALK-IN TUTORING
One small student office is available 
on the ground floor of Skibo. The 
dimensions of the space are 
10’8” x 8’6”. If your organization is 
interested in obtaining this space, please 
stop at the Information Desk and pick up 
an application form.
Completed applications are due by 
Thursday, November 30, 1989 and 
should be turned in at the 
Information Desk, Attn: Bonnie Gorman.
Carnegie Mellon Drama invites 
you to Don Quixotte, an enter­
taining evening of imaginative 
theater that tells the story of Cer­
vantes’ knight.
Jacques Bourgaux is the Man 
of La Mancha in an extraordinary 
solo performance that takes the 
audience into the mind and quest 
of Don Quixote. (The French spell­
ing has two ‘t’s.) This acclaimed 
French actor has performed this 
exciting theater piece through Eu­
rope and the United States.
Clitics haye called Bourgaux a 
genius. “Bourgaux is an actor of 
the first order,” said the Boston 
Herald. “He guides us through 
this breathtaking visual display 
of vocal and visual artistry ... a 
performance of such mystery and 
wonder that it deserves to be 
brought back to Boston for a longer 
run.”
Th eLondon Observer calledDon.
Quixotte “a model of entertain­
ment engineering.”
Don Quixotte will be performed 
in the Kresge Theatre on Monday 
and Tuesday, November 20 and 
21, at 7 pm. The 80-minute per­
formance is open to Carnegie 
Mellon faculty, staff, and students 
for just 99 cents per ticket. To
reserve tickets on MasterCard or 
Visa, call or stop by the Drama 
box office in the College of Fine 
Arts. The box office opens at noon 
daily and takes calls at x2407.
To sweeten this special offer, 
you’ll get a piece of penny candy 
for change when you purchase 
your ticket with a dollar.
French actor/mime/ 
performer Jacques 
Bourgaux conveys the 
range of human emotion 
in his version of 
Cervantes’ wgCGe22nP
photos courtesy Drama Department
Sunday through Thursday, 8:00 -11:00 pm
A
Sponsored by CounselingThe Right Place to Turn.
and Student Development Center, Division of Student Affairs.
Calculus 
Physics 
Chemistry 
Biology 
Academic Writing 
Intro to Computing
WeH 5403 
WeH 5427 
WeH 5205 
WeH 5205 
WeH 5427 
WeH 5409

---------------------------------------------------

119The Tartan • Carnegie Mellon • 14 November 1989
Savoyards’ 
Gondoliers 
leaves much 
to be desired
By DAWN BROSONSKI
Tartan Asst. Diversions Editor
The Pittsburgh Savoyards cele­
brated its 52nd season last Fri­
day night at Carlow College with 
the opening of its latest produc­
tion, The Gondoliers. The Sa­
voyards is Pittsburgh’s resident 
Gilbert and Sullivan troupe. 
Genera] andMusical Director Bob 
Whitley andStage Director Glenn 
Pari s (a recent graduate of CMU) 
chose to set the show during the 
roaring twenties to show how the 
star system is reflected in our 
own political culture.
The two gondoliers are Marco 
(Joseph Kuzma) and Giuseppe 
(Michael Greenstein), who have 
arrived in Venice, California to 
choose their brides from among 
the local flower girls. A game of 
blind-man’s bluff leads to the 
capture of Gianetta (Shelly 
Dawson) and Tessa (Deborah 
Neuhaus), and the two couples 
are married.
Arrivingin Venice shortly there­
after are the Duke and Duchess of 
Plaza-Toro, their daughter 
Casilda, and their servant Luiz. 
They seek the new king of Bara- 
taria, to whom Casilda has been 
engaged from infancy. Twenty 
years ago, the infant son of the 
king was stolen by the Grand 
Inquisitor, Don Alhambra, and 
turned over to the care of a gondo­
lier. The happily wed Marco and 
Giuseppe are informed that one 
of them is the rightful heir to the 
throne, and therefore obliged to 
marry Casilda. The gondoliers 
travel to Barataria to rule jointly 
while awaiting the news of who is
Coffeehouse presents 
singer Christine Lavin
photo courtesy Pittsburgh Savoyards
Gianetta (CMU alumna Shelly Dawson) lures Marco (Joseph Kuzma) Into a romantic entanglement In the 
Pittsburgh Savoyards' production of vAn lesce.CnSaP
actually king.
This ensemble makes its best 
attempt to bring The Gondoliers 
alive with a light-hearted, free 
spirit, but it doesn’t quite come 
across. Much of this can be attrib­
uted to the conditions. The small 
stage encouraged awkwardness 
during the musical numbers; fun 
and frolic was lost in cramped 
space. Sadly, the orchestra often 
overpowered the performers, and 
in some cases singers were sim­
ply not loud enough.
Bravo to Kuzma and Greenstein 
for giving their all to hold the 
show together. Kuzma was active 
in many ensembles in the past 
while completing his BS degree 
at Pitt. Greenstein joined the 
Savoyards as Synthius in Prin­
cess Ida\ he is a second-year law 
student at Pitt.
Also notable is Dawson, a 1989 
graduate ofCamegie Mellon, and 
the possessor of a lovely soprano 
voice. Her recent roles have in­
cluded Hodel in Fiddler on the 
Roof and Hope in Anything Goes. 
A current Carnegie Mellon stu­
dent, senior Robert Cucuzza, is a
strong presence as Antonio/Gon- 
dolier/director, and certainly one 
of the liveliest members of the 
gondolier chorus.
The acting is simply not up to 
par in this production. Granted, 
much of the dialogue reads like a 
playwright’s first attempt, but 
most of the cast do not possess the 
acting ability to overcome this. 
Actors dealing with lines like, 
“This situation’s a tangle; let’s 
comb it out,” can’t be having the 
best experience of their lives, and 
it shows in the stiffness and 
impassiveness of much of this 
company. Particularly annoying 
was Patricia Donohue as Casilda, 
who was extremely melodramatic, 
unrealistically stomping across 
the stage and flinging her arms, 
speaking her lines with bulging 
eyes and an exaggerated pout.
The musical numbers are the 
saving grace of this show, most 
notably the opening and closing 
numbers. The vocal ability of 
much of this company is remark­
able. It was a surprise, therefore, 
when most of the songs were fol­
lowed with next to no applause.
That alone cannot provide much 
incentive for the performers. In­
cidentally, the most applause of 
the evening came with Kuzma’s 
honest and sweet solo in the sec­
ond act.
The Gondoliers is described by 
the director as “not solely a ve­
hicle for entertainment, but a 
satire of ideas and conditions.” 
While the Savoyards can be 
praised for its desire to bring fresh 
ideas to the stage, it must either 
be more selective in casting or 
improve the quality of the shows 
it chooses to produce to achieve 
the artistic goals it wishes for.
Perhaps if this cast had been 
provided with a more thoughtful, 
provocative show, they might have 
been able to shine a bit more 
brightly. The Gondoliers does not 
offer much “stretch” for an actor; 
it is a straightforward, relatively 
unexciting show that seems best 
left to a high school drama club. 
Perhaps not even there.
The Gondoliers will run through 
Friday. For ticket information, call 
572-5270.
photo by Shonna Valeska/courtesy Rounder Recoitis 
Folk singer and comedian Christine Lavin is coming to Skibo this 
Thursday night.
By DAWN A. JACKMAN
Tartan Staffwriter
A modem day folk singer, co­
median, and lyricist is coming to 
Carnegie Mellon. Regarded in the 
same light as performers like 
Suzanne Vega, Christine Lavin is 
a name we will be hearing more 
and more often.
The New York folk singer plays 
acoustic guitar and sings, but she 
has said that one of her main 
priorities is having a good time 
with her audience. Many folk 
singers agree that their music 
comes from the same roots, but 
that they aren’t trying to revive 
anything. Lavin agrees.
Folk music is now up and com­
ing in the eighties — performers
like Michelle Shocked and Vega 
are working in the same vein as 
Lavin. Many prominent singers 
hold her performance ability and 
song writing skills in high regard, 
Vega has called Lavin her favor­
ite New York songwriter. She has 
also been described as whimsical, 
witty, and sometimes wicked. 
Some of her lyrics tend to be a tad 
sarcastic, which provokes humor 
or (hopefully) enlightenment.
Lavin will be heard about more 
and more in the coming years, 
why not come out and enjoy her 
show. She’ll be performing this 
Thursday, November 16, at 8 pm 
in the Skibo Ballroom. Lavin’s 
performance is sponsored by AB 
Coffeehouse, andisfundedbyyour 
Activities Fee.
Ir
lectronic Pre-Press Systems, Inc. Eastman Kodak Company
A dynamic member of the Eastman Ko­
dak family of companies, Electronic Pre- 
Press Systems (EPPS) serves as Kodak’s 
primary agent to supply electronic pre­
press products, integrated systems and 
support services to the printing and pub­
lishing industries. These include 
computer-based systems to capture, cre­
ate, manipulate, integrate and produce 
electronically all elements of newspapers, 
magazines and legal and corporate 
documents. EPPS serves specific 
worldwide markets within these industries 
through four business units: Atex Pub­
lishing Systems, Magazine Publishing, 
Kodak Legal Systems and Electronic 
Printing Systems. These units, in turn, are 
supported by several Research and 
Development Engineering groups as well 
as other centralized support groups. 
EPPS is a 1,100 person company, located 
in Billerica and Bedford, Massachusetts. 
In particular, we have entry-level openings 
for those with experience and/or educa­
tion in the following areas:
EPPS, Inc.
#
ÿ
f
i
I
/
#
I
I
#
graphics
user interfaces
x-windows
image processing
digital signal processing
relational databases
UNIX and VMS operating systems
C programming
distributed applications
networiting and communications
sun woriistations
EPPS, Inc. offers highly competitive 
salaries with benefits that include 
medical and dental insurance, 401(K) 
plan, profit sharing, full tuition reim­
bursement, fitness center, and a bright, 
modern facility.
We are seeking graduates with 
a B.S. in Computer Science, Ap­
plied Mathematics and Physics.
We will be on campus recruiting 
on November 20th. Stop by the 
Career Services and Placement 
Office for more details.
wÊ&mÈÈ
ÜHHËM

---------------------------------------------------

The Tartan • Carnegie Mellon • 14 November 1989L13
Thursday, November 16
Brazil
Brazil is probably best compared to the movies 
Modern Times, Metropolis, and 1984. The story cen­
ters around Sam Lowry (Jonathan Pryce), a meek, 
desperate little man who works at a computer termi­
nal all day. Sam’s life is terribly boring, dull, and 
drab. His only escape is through his fantasies where 
he’s a warrior battling his own fears and society’s 
problems. Later in the movie, Sam bumps into an 
illegal free-lance repairman (Robert De Niro) who 
goes around fixing things, and then he falls in love 
with a female truck driver who also goes around 
rebelling against the state. Brazil is at times very 
hard to follow and will leave you empty and drained 
at the end. Not a movie to see if you’re in a bad mood, 
but still an incredible film.
At 6, 8:30,11 — Rated R
Friday, November 17
The Adventures of Baron 
Munchausen
Munchausen is Terry Gilliam’s most recent film, 
and some say his best. The movie is based on the life 
of a real man named Munchausen who lived hun­
dreds of years ago. Munchausen was known for his 
incredibly tall tales which he always claimed were 
completely true. In this movie, Gilliam takes some of 
the original Munchausen tales and brings them to 
life through the medium of film. In addition to the 
wonderful direction of Gilliam, Munchausen stars 
Eric Idle, Robin Williams, John Neville, and Uma 
Thurman, to name a few. Not a movie to miss.
At 6:30, 9,11:30 — Rated PG
photo ©1989 Columbia Pictures 
The dashing John Neville stars in Terry Gilliam’s vAn hcons2gSna ey r02es BgsmA0gansP
Saturday, November 18
License to Kill
This is the most recent Bond movie, starring 
Timothy Dalton as 007. In this one, Bond gets per­
sonally involved when a powerful drug dealer seri­
ously injures his best friend. Unlike past Bond 
movies, this one doesn’t have a lot of gadgets. How­
ever, it does have a lot of action (Dalton did most of 
his stunts himself), dead bodies (truckloads), vil­
lains, explosions, humor, twists, turns, and women 
(instead of the standard one, Bond has two). Quite a 
change from past Bond movies, for there is more 
action than intrigue. If you like Lethal Weapon-type 
action, then you’ll probably love License to Kill.
At 6:30, 9, 11:30 — Rated PG-13
Sunday, November 19
You Only Live Twice
Yet another Bond movie, except this one could be 
categorized as one of the “stranger” films. Since it 
came out in 1967, some of the drug era rubbed off on 
it. However, it still holds its own as a good Bond 
movie. In this one, the original and best Bond, Sean 
Connery, must stop Spectre from starting World 
War III. As usual, this one has gadgets, action, 
deaths, and women. What more can anyone say 
about the world’s most suave secret agent?
At 6:30, 9,11:30 — Not Rated
By STEPHEN GLICKER
PBT presents Balanchine at Benedum
By MICHELLE JONES
Tartan Staffwriter
The Pittsburgh Ballet Theatre 
is currently in its 20th anniver­
sary season. As part of the cele­
bration, Artistic Director Patri­
cia Wilde is staging a tribute to 
the late George Balanchine. “A 
Balanchine Evening” features the 
ballets The Prodigal Son, West­
ern Symphony, and Allegro Bril- 
lante. The show will be performed 
November 16-19 at the Benedum 
Center.
George Balanchine has often 
been dubbed the most important 
choreographer of the 20th cen­
tury, an honor achieved inpart by 
his tendency to considertradition 
only an idea from which to devi­
ate.
While a student at the Imperial 
School of Ballet and the Petro- 
grad Conservatory of Music, Bal­
anchine had several run-ins with 
his superiors over his “controver­
sial” work. He left Russia in 1924 
and joined fellow expatriate Serge 
Diaghilev’s Ballet Russes. With 
the Ballet Russes, Balanchine 
served as ballet master and cho­
reographer as well as dancer.
Balanchine came to the United 
States in 1933 to found the School 
of American Ballet. Though re­
ferred to as “American,” the teach- 
ingmethod employed by the school 
was essentially derived from 
Balanchine’s traditional Russian 
training. Balanchine dissected 
ballet movements and focused on 
the isolated elements, such as 
tendus and port de bras.
In1946 Balanchine founded the 
Ballet Society. Two years later, 
the company acquired the name 
by which it is still known today—• 
The NewYork City Ballet. Itis for 
this company that Balanchine cre­
ated the greater part of his cele­
brated work.
Plot and character figure in the 
foreground of The Prodigal Son, a 
ballet based upon the Biblical 
parable concerning a father/son 
relationship. The title role of this 
ballet is considered one of the
photo by Susan Cook/courtesy Pittsburgh Ballet Theatre 
Dancer Alexander Naglba, last seen as Puck In h BCcagttnS WCRA2fa dSn0t- leaps through the air as vAn TSecCR0. 4esP
“rare great dramatic male roles.” 
To nobody’s surprise, this role has 
captured the attention of dance 
luminaries, Jerome Robbins and 
Mikhail Baryshnikov among 
them. The ballet debuted near 
the start of Balanchine’s career in 
the 1928 season of the Ballet 
Russes.
Western Symphony was choreo­
graphed in 1954 and scored by 
Hershy Kay. As the title suggests, 
the score incorporates folk songs, 
including “Red River Valley” and 
“Good Night, Ladies” into a rela­
tively classical framework. In
Western Symphony, Balanchine 
dared to season “the classical 
vocabulary” of ballet with ele­
ments of American Western dance 
to create a witty parody of a bam- 
dance. By stripping away some of 
the ballet’s formality, he gave 
dancers and audiences the chance 
to have fun with ballet. The third 
movement of the ballet was cre­
ated for Wilde, who danced the 
female leads in the work.
The final piece of the tribute, 
Allegro Brillante, is an example 
of the most common perception of 
the Balanchine style. Allegro is
tremendously lyrical and relies 
on music, rather than a story-' 
line, to establish the premise of 
the ballet. The ballet highlights . 
the technique and strength of the 
dancers. Allegro Brillante and . 
ballets of its ilk allow the audi­
ence “to ‘see’ the music and ‘hear’ 
the dance,” says Wilde. “Mr. Bal­
anchine made us understand that . 
there is beauty in movement.”
Tickets for the November 19 per­
formance of “A Balanchine Eve­
ning” are available from CMV • 
Housing. Each ticket costs $8.
For Sale
PARTY* PARTY* PARTY Visit 
Papermart - one stop party 
shopping. Corner of Morewood 
Ave. and Baum Boulevard. We 
have everything for any cele­
bration!
Miscellaneous
Happily married Caucasian 
couple with 4 year old adopted 
child would like to share an­
other child’s love. We will pro­
vide your baby a loving, happy, 
and financially secure home. All 
expenses paid. Callcollect(814) 
825-8452.
Pregnant? Looking for terrific 
adoptive parents? Call us! We 
have lots of love to share. Bon­
nie and Bob. Collect (412) 443- 
8938. Legal and confidential. 
Expenses paid;
Adoption: Happily married, 
financially secure, professional 
couple wish to give their love 
and all good things in life to a 
new bom. Let us help you. Call 
collect anytime 814-336-4315.
Is it true you can buy jeeps for 
$44. through the U.S. Govern­
ment? Get the facts today! (312) 
742-1142. Ext. 3401-A.
Services
ABC OFFICE SERVICES - 
South Hills Village area; typ­
ing, word processing, term pa-
Classifieds
pers, resumes; editing service; 7 Squirrel Hill, near transportation, 
days, 9-9; fast, reasonable; 835- M W F, 12-5. Call 521-4032 
3488.
Exotic Dancer Wanted - Do not 
work in Go-Go bars. Earn $200- 
$500 per week. Part time, danc­
ing only! Highest quality work 
and wages paid for “quality” 
people. (Dance-A-Grams and 
Vegas-Style shows.) We train you 
to be top notch! For big earnings 
and unbelievably easy work, call 
Blondie at 931-0900. Professional 
and reputable since 1983.
Corsages - $2.08 and up. Bouts 
$1.50 and up. Alex’s Flowers 687- 
4128. Formals and party decora­
tions. 687-ALEX. We wire flow­
ers.
Lonely? Need a date? Meet that 
special someone today! Call 
DATETIME (405) 366-6335.
For low student fares world wide, 
Youth Hostel Passes, Eurail 
passes, and all travel needs visit 
Forum Travel at 4608 Winthrop, 
off South Craig, or call 681-4099.
Housing
Squirrel Hill furnished 2 bedroom 
apartment. $360 per month plus 
utilities, 421-0671.
Shadyside Apartment Suites. 
Elegantly furnished, well ap­
pointed 1 and 2 BR suites. In­
cludes cable (HBO), phone, park­
ing, linens. One block to Walnut 
St. shops. From $33 per day, one 
month minimum. Daily and 
weekly rates available. 441-4444.
Jobs
Small Local Business looking for 
programming assistance. Mustbe 
familiar with Clipper, D-Base 
languages. Flexible hours and 
wages. Call 621-9346.
Spring Break 1990 - Individual 
or student organization needed to 
promote our Spring Break trips. 
Earn money, free trips and valu­
able work experience. Apply Now!! 
Call Inter-Campus Programs: 1- 
800-327-6013.
WANTED: Sympathetic Algebra 
I tutor for 13 year-old Shadyside 
girl. $ 15/hour. Must have car. Call 
752-3501 (8 am - 5 pm).
WHEEL DELIVER is looking for 
sharp, service oriented people to 
deliver meals and/or work in our 
central office. Applicants must be 
amiable, neat, intelligent, hon­
est, and articulate. Call 621-9346 
for interview.
Models Needed: Men, Women, 
Children, Teens, Catalogs, bro­
chures, TV. State licensed, in­
sured, no training required. Es­
tablished 1973 Van Enterprises 
(412) 355-0412.
Babysitter wanted for 3 year old Would you like to offer Discover
Credit Cards? Are you avail­
able for only a few hours/week? 
If so, call 1-800-932-0528 ext.
3. We’ll pay you as much as 
$ 10.00/hour. Only ten positions 
available.
Retail Sales, Part Time posi­
tions available in hotel gift 
shops in downtown Pittsburgh. 
Evening and weekend hours. 
Mustbe able to work until 11 
P.M. $4.00 hour starting rate. 
Phone Monday - Friday be­
tween 9 A.M. & 4 P.M. 683- 
7887.
Think Spring-Outgoing? Well 
organized? Promote and escort 
our Florida Spring Break trip. 
Good Pay & Fun. Call Campus 
Marketing. 1-800-423-5264.
Earn $2,000-$4,000. Search­
ing for employment that per­
mits working your own hours, 
but still challenging enough 
foryour entrepreneurial skills? 
Manage programs for Fortune 
500 Companies. Earn $2,000 
to $4,000. Call 1-800-932-0528, 
ext. 11. Ideal forgrad. students.
On-Campus Sales Rep - We 
are looking for an entrepre- 
neur-type, responsible student 
interested in making money 
selling RAY-BAN Sunglasses. 
Only energetic, serious appli­
cants send resume to: Kevin 
Green, SOLAR SPECS Com­
pany, 1173A Second Ave., St. 
155, New York, New York 
10021.
Announcements
continued from page L14
cations must include a recent 
snapshot, a brief biography, 
andphone number. Deadline 
for applications is December 
23. For more information call
225-5343.
•The 7th Annual International 
Bridge Conference to be held 
theweekofjune 17,1990in Pitts­
burgh has issued its formal call 
for papers. The conferenceis seek­
ing papers from designers, con­
tractors, operators, and suppliers
on such topics as: railroad bridges, 
surface preparation and coating 
systems, bearings, joints and ex­
pansion dams, load testing, bridge 
inspection, construction tech­
niques, design, safety, and les­
sons from failures. Those wish- 
ing to participate in and contrib-
ute to the 7th Annual Interna­
tional Bridge Conference should 
contact the Engineer’s Society 
ofWestern Pennsylvania by No­
vember 24 at 261-0710.
•Only one more week until 
Thanksgiving Vacation. Don’t 
give up yet...
/

---------------------------------------------------

Special Events 
•Cuarteto Latinoamericano,
at 8 pm in the Mellon Institute 
Auditorium.
•WRCT features a wide variety 
of international poetry on 
International Poetry. Every 
Tuesday at 8:30 pm, on WRCT, 
88.3 FM.
•Palestine Solidarity Com­
mittee has meetings every 
Tuesday at 8 pm. Tonight the
Special Events 
•Women’s Ultimate Frisbee
general information meeting 
will be held at 7 pm in PH A20. 
For more information call 681- 
5137.
•RA Interest Sessions will be 
held at 6:30 pm in the More- 
wood Gardens Library and at 9 
pm in the Donner Reading 
Room to provide information for 
potential RA candidates.
•The Pittsburgh Intema-
Special Events 
•German Language table in
the Morewood Dining Hall at 
noon.
•WRCT’s weekly call-in sports 
talk show where lucky listeners 
can win free pizza. At 8:30 pm 
on WRCT, 88.3 FM.
•AB Coffeehouse, comic 
Christine Lavin. At 8 pm in 
the Skibo Ballroom.
Special Events 
•Choruses — at 8 pm in the 
Alumni Concert Hall. For 
information call x2383. 
•Japanese language table in 
the Morewood Dining Hall at 
noon.
•Representatives from LDS 
Student’s Association will be 
in Skibo Grey Matter to answer 
questions about the LDS 
Student’s Association or about
Special Events 
•Pittsburgh Symphony. In
his 13th set of subscription 
concert performances with the 
Pittsburgh Symphony, Cristoph 
Eschenbach leads the Orchestra 
and young pianist Tzimon Barto
Special Events 
•B’nai B’rith Hillel welcomes 
students to a bagel brunch at
1 pm in the Hillel Lounge. Free 
food for all! For information call 
621-8875.
•Pittsburgh Symphony. In
Special Events
• Macintosh Training Session:
4th Dimension, 9-12 pm. See 
announcements for details.
meeting will be held at the 
Amnesty International House, 
Margaret Morrison Apartments 
133. A video tape about the 
Intifada will be shown. For 
more information call 681-5137. 
•RA Interest Sessions will be 
held at 6:30 pm in the Mudge 
Lounge and at 8 pm in the 
Morrison’s Rec room to provide 
information for potential RA 
candidates.
tional Folk Theatre will be 
holding auditions for singers, 
dancers, and musicians from 7-
11 pm in the Monogahela Room, 
17th floor of the Westin William 
Penn Hotel. Appointments are 
necessary. For audition infor­
mation and appointment time, 
call 261-9711.
•Spanish Language table in
the Morewood Dining Hall at 
noon.
•Pittsburgh Symphony
•AIDS Teleconference. 1-4 
pm in the Wherrett Room. 
•Alpha Phi Omega, a national 
service fraternity has meetings 
every Thursday night in Breed 
Hall, Margaret Morrison. Alpha 
Phi Omega is a co-ed organiza­
tion, all activities and service 
projects are open to non-mem- 
bers. Interested? Call x2116 or 
stop by Skibo 54.
the Church of Latter Day 
Saints. For more information 
call 687-3415.
•Pittsburgh Symphony. In
his 13th set of subscription 
concert performances with the 
Pittsburgh Symphony, Cristoph 
Eschenbach leads the Orchestra 
and young pianist Tzimon Barto 
in Prokofiev’s Piano Concerto 
No. 3. This all Russian perform­
ance include the Symphony’s
in Prokofiev’s Piano Concerto 
No. 3. This all Russian perform­
ance include the Symphony’s 
first performance of 
Stravinsky’s Circus Polka. 8 pm 
in the Heinz Hall for the Per­
forming Arts, there will be a
his 13th set of subscription 
concert performances with the 
Pittsburgh Symphony, Cristoph 
Eschenbach leads the Orchestra 
and young pianist Tzimon Barto 
in Prokofiev’s Piano Concerto 
No. 3. This all Russian perform-
•President’s Distinguished Lec­
ture Series. Francisco Sagasti 
on “The Debt Crisis and The 
Future of Latin America.” For
•Student Senate meetings are 
held every Tuesday at 7 pm in 
the Wherrett Room. The senate 
office is located in Skibo 59. For 
more information call x2115.
Workshop 
•French language table in 
the Morewood Dining Hall at 
noon.
•Richard M. Cyert, President of 
Carnegie Mellon University and 
MSIA’s 1989-1990 Distin-
Expose Concert. An informal, 
entertaining program designed 
to introduce new audiences to 
symphonic music. “Around the 
World in Eighty Minutes” 
featuring Andreas Delfs, Mi­
chael Jon, and Dan Kamin. At 8 
pm in the Heinz Hall for the 
Performing Arts.
•The theolog is in. Come and 
discuss questions about theol­
ogy and religion with one of the 
members of the Campus Minis-
•Representatives from LDS 
Student’s Association will be 
in Skibo Grey Matter to answer 
questions about the LDS 
Student’s Association or about 
the Church of Latter Day 
Saints. For more information 
call 687-3415.
•An RA Interest Session will 
held at 6 pm in the Wherrett 
Room to provide information to
first performance of 
Stravinsky's Circus Polka. 8:30 
pm in the Heinz Hall for the 
Performing Arts, there will be a 
pre-concert conversation at 7:30 
pm.
Workshop 
•The Carnegie Mellon Chapter 
of the Society for Technical 
Communication will hold a 
seminar at noon in Baker Hall 
254A. A video will be shown on
pre-concert conversation at 7 
pm.
•Sadie Hawkins Day.
Movies
•License to Kill. Showing at 6, 
8,10, and midnight in Doherty 
2210.
ance include the Symphony’s 
first performance of 
Stravinsky’s Circus Polka. 8:30 
pm in the Heinz Hall for. the 
Performing Arts, there will be a 
pre-concert conversation at 7:30 
pm.
more information call x5052. 
Movies
•The Gold Rush (US, 1925), 
director: Charlie Chaplin. Char-
guished Lecturer will give the 
lecture “Leadership versus 
Management in Organiza­
tions” from 3:30-4:45 pm in the 
Main Auditorium of GSIA. The 
lecture will be followed by a 
reception at 5 pm in the GSIA 
lobby. For info call x2271. 
•Macintosh Training Ses­
sion — Excel - Introduction to 
Spreadsheets. 6-9 pm. See 
announcements.
try Council. Every Wednesday 
from 1-3 pm in Grey Matter. 
Sponsored by your CMU Cam­
pus Ministry Council.
Workshop 
•Exploring the Careers 
Resource Library. Learn “real 
world” information that can 
help you with your career 
choice. Get inside tips on 
identifying and researching job 
leads. In Warner 19 from 5-6 
pm.
prospective RA candidates.
Workshop 
•Educational Action on 
Latin America presents a talk 
by Roger Schrading of the 
Jesuit Refugee Service in El 
Salvador and Ellyn Dorsey, who 
spent the summer of 1989 
investigating human rights 
issues there. 7 pm in Baker Hall 
321B.
the 1990 International Techni­
cal Communications Conference 
in San Jose. There will be 
presentations by Dr. Karen A. 
Shriver, Deb Ainsworth, and 
Michele Matchett together with 
Liz Lyons. The meeting is open 
to the public.
Movies 
•The Adventures of Baron 
Munchausen. Showing at 6:30, 
9, and 11:30 in Doherty 2210.
•Indiana Jones and the Last 
Crusade, director: Steven 
Spielberg. Sean Connery, 
Harrison Ford, Denholm Elliot, 
Alison Doody. Connery steals 
this third and last Indiana 
Jones installment about the
Movies
•You Only Live Twice. Show­
ing at 6:30, 9, and 11:30 pm in 
Doherty 2210.
•Imitation of Life (US, 1959), 
director: Douglas Sirk. Lana 
Turner, John Gavin, Sandra
lie Chaplin, Georgia Hale, Mack 
Swain. The classic film about the 
little tramp as he braves the ele­
ments in the Yukon. Don’t miss
Movies
•Day for Night (France, 1973), 
director: Francois Truffaut. 
Jean-Pierre Leaud, Jacqueline 
Bisset, Valentina Cortese. 
Delightful film about the 
making of a film in this tribute 
to American Movies. Oscar for 
Best Foreign Film. 116 minutes. 
7:30 and 9:40 pm at the Pitts­
burgh Playhouse, cost $3.
Movies
•The Gay Divorcee (US, 1934), 
director: Mark Sandrich. Fred 
Astaire, Ginger Rogers, Betty 
Grable, and Eric Rhodes. Forget 
the plot in this memorable film 
with the classic “Night and 
Day” dance sequence. And, of 
course, “The Continental.” 107 
minutes, at 7:30 and 9:30 pm at 
the Pittsburgh Playhouse, cost 
$3.
Movies
•Brazil. Showing at 6, 8:30, 
and 11 pm in Doherty 2210. 
•Boyfriends and Girlfriends 
(France, 1988), director: Eric 
Rohmer. Francois-Eric Gen- 
dron, Sophie Renoir. Fine 
comedy about the battle of the 
sexes French style. 102 min­
utes, 7:30 and 9:30 pm at the 
Pittsburgh Playhouse, cost $3.
•Do the Right Thing (US, 
1989), director: Spike Lee. 
Danny Aiello, Spike Lee, John 
Turturro, Richard Edson. 
Excellent but tense film about 
racial problem in the predomi­
nantly black Bedford- 
Stuyvesant section of Brooklyn. 
120 minutes, 7:30 and 9:40 at 
the Pittsburgh Playhouse, cost 
$3.
Jones’ and the Nazis searching 
for the Holy Grail plus a 
glimpse of Indy as a teenager. 
Lots of action and comedy. 127 
minutes, 7:30 and 9:45 at the 
Pittsburgh Playhouse, cost $3.
Dee, Susan Kohner, Juanita 
Moore. Sometime soapy, some­
times very effective film adapta­
tion of Fanny Hurst’s story 
about a career obsessed actress. 
124 minutes, 7:30 and 9:40 at 
the Pittsburgh Playhouse.
Chaplin eating a leather shoe. 82 
minutes, 7:30 and 9:30 at the 
Pittsburgh Playhouse, cost $3.
Announcements
•Vector Marketing Corpora, 
tion will sponsor its TTiirj 
Annual Essay Contest with 
scholarship monies totaling 
$3,000 for winning entries 
Students are asked to write a 
500 woTd essay on the folio» 
ing topic: “Beyond Your 420 
WhatMore Does itTake to Be 
Successful after College?’ 
Deadline for entries is Decern 
ber 1. For more information 
contact Lauren Melon e at 215. 
543-2236orBob HaigorCaro) 
Quigley at 215-544-3020.
e Libraries
Using items borrowed from 
the University Archives and 
the Drama Department, the 
main exhibit is a celebration 
of the 75th anniversary of 
the Drama Department 
Hunt Library, Fourth floor. 
September through Decc-,. 
ber. For more information 
contact Gabrielie Michalek. 
University Archivist, x502! 
•Exhibit in the Libraries 
Hunt Library's Fine and Rare 
Book Room exhibit features 
the collection of Professor 
William A. Nelson (emeri- 
tus, CFA-Drama) with books, 
prints, and contemporary 
accounts of plays and festi­
vals, stage design and actor's 
biographies from the 17th and 
18th centuries. Fourth floor, 
Monday through Friday, 
1:30-4:30 pm and Tuesday 
7—10 pm, through November 
15.
• Carnegie Museum Passes 
on sale at the Skibo Informa­
tion Desk Monday-Friday, S 
am-5 pm for just $2, normally 
$5. Passes are good through 
December 31.
• Fringe Run Practice 
Come out and run with us if 
you’re interested in running. 
Fringe or both. Tuesday and 
Thursday at 10 pm in the CFA 
lobby.
•The Hunt Institute for 
Botanical Documentation 
at CarnegieMellonUniv.T 
sity will present “Botani 
cal Watercolors by Mar- 
ilena Pistoia” from Novem­
ber 6,1989 until February 23, 
1990. Open to the public and 
free of charge the exhibition 
will be on display in the 
Institute’s Gallery on the fifth 
floor of the Hunt Library from 
8:30 am to noon and 1 to 5 pm, 
Monday through Friday. For 
more information contact the 
Institute at x2434. 
•Citiparks Brings back Col­
lege ID Nights at the Sch- 
enley Ice Rink. College ID 
Nights will be held Tuesdays 
from 7-9 pm and Wednesdays 
from 1:30-3:30 pm. Admission 
is only $1 for college students 
with valid University or Col­
lege ID.
•The Macintosh Training 
Center offers small, informal, 
hands-on training sessions for 
the Macintosh in Margaret 
Morrison 16E (in the base­
ment). Classes are available 
to anyone, the cost is gener­
ally $50 for a three hour ses­
sion. Registration and prepay­
ment is required at least a 
week in advance. For info pick 
up the Macintosh Training 
Center’s flyer at the CMU 
computer store or call x2199-
• Impressionism: SeleC' 
tions from Five American 
Museums. This exhibition at 
the Heinz Galleries gathers 
impressionist and post-im­
pressionist masterpieces from 
five American Museums. 
Among the artists presented 
are Degas, Monet, Renoir, 
Gaugin, and Van Gogh- 
Through December 31. 
•Applications are now being 
accepted for the Miss Pena 
sylvania USA pageant. Ap
ply to Miss Pennsylvania USA
pageant, Tri-State Headquar­
ters - Dept. S, 347 Locust 
Avenue, Washington, Penn 
sylvania 15301-3399. AppU 
continued on page Ü3
MG,
To those whose lives you touched. Your memory will live on forever... We’ll miss you! 
Hey Baby,
Wanna see my eight foot beefstick??
Thanks to Walt, Rick, Aileen, and all the Kiltie Band members for making my last march­
ing season a great one!
-Your ex-VP
Anyone who wants to see Aaron K. or Julian S.’s underwear please stop by Shirley 20 to 
schedule your free consultation and appointment. This is not for those with weak stom­
achs.
Pigs (AK and JS) thanks for the laughs Thursday night.
-Chel 
P.S. This means war.
TILT!
Was that Meg I saw on Campus last night?
Theta XI. Fly High.
-1112
P.S. Maybe I’ll come up and see you some time.
PM, TG, RR, and JK. I can’t ever thank you enough. You’ve shown 
me what true friendship is. (Aaaaagh, I’m being sappy)
Wednesday 15
Thursday 16
Friday 17
Saturday 18
Sunday 19
Monday 20
