Marilyn Greiner
Kappa Alpha ThetaAudry Camp
Delia GammaBarb Krack
Kappa Kappa Gamma
Fran Bebic
Delta Delta Delta
Bev Scott
Chi Omega
m
Lex Baker
Kappa Kappa GammaPeggy Lengyel
Delta GammaBecky Conrad
Kappa Alpha ThetaTody Emmert
Chi Omega
CARNEGIETARTAN
%CARNEGIE INSTITUTEOF TECHNOLOGY
VOLUME 52--NUMBER 22WEDNESDAY, APRIL 22, 1959
»“Set ’Em Up Again 
Opens Next Monday
#Only a couple of days until Scotch ’n Soda runs the 
boards in “Set ’em Up Again,” and it looks like all Tech is 
looking ahead with great anticipation.
The show, written by Jeannie Hughes and directed by
Jim DeBlasis, has probably re-*---------------------------------------------------
ceived more favorable advancemore
¡comment than any show in Scotch 
’n Soda’s twenty-nine year his­
tory. Rightfully so, for “Set ’Em 
Up Again” is the most entertain­
ing collegiate musical to come 
in a great while.
“Set ’Em Up Again,” as many
S 9n S Tickets
Only another few days to 
get tickets for “Set ’Em Up 
Again,” the 1959 Scotch ’n 
Soda show. The sales so far 
have been record-breaking, so 
if you want tickets, you had 
^tter make a bee-line to the 
Skibo booth. Tickets are $2.00 
each and all seats are re­
served.
know, is a musical satire on two 
playwrights, one “romantic” and 
the other, “earthy,” who decide to 
produce a show together. The re­
sult achieved by Phil Rie and 
Arnie Zazlove, in these two re- 
spv%tive roles, is what the script 
calls a “poetic musical with guts.” 
The musical they produce to­
gether is of course the eternal tri­
angle; boy and girl in love, and 
guardian who wishes to prevent 
their marriage.
This “show within a show* has 
two distinct and contrasting casts
Congress Elections
Today is the deadline for 
Student Congress election ap- 
lications. Anyone interested in 
running in their departmental 
elections should sign today in 
Dr. Strick’s office. Commuters 
may pick up a petition for a 
Place on Congress in the 
same office.
as the writers who direct them— 
there is the “romantic” cast, head­
ed by Gretchen Frebretshauser 
and Jim Parker; and the “gutsy” 
cast, with Ellen Travolta and Ed 
Fredrickson in the leads. The re­
sult of these two distinct casts 
playing the same roles makes for 
all the fun of “Set ’Em Up Again,” 
as each writer is in constant dis­
agreement with the other, and as 
their casts play virtually the same 
scenes but with such contrast, that 
the result will be hilarious.
Two Lovers 
The “show within a show” takes 
the two lovers, be it Ellen and Ed 
or Gretchen and Jim, all around 
the world as they are chased by 
their guardian. There are amusing 
musical stopovers in Manhattan, 
France, India; and a spectacular 
production number in South 
America. Even though this year’s 
Scotch ’n Soda has such a great 
variety of locales and numbers, it 
still maintains the continuity of 
the two writers who “Set ’Em Up 
Again.” It may sound a bit con­
fusing, but on the stage, the show 
flows beautifully.
The Great Scot 
Will Be On Sale 
Tuesday, April 28
The Scot will be put on sale 
Tuesday, April 28. The theme of 
the coming issue is built around 
this year’s Spring Carnival fes­
tivities.
It promises to be not only the 
most critical issue but also the 
most humorous thus far publish­
ed. Be sure to purchase your copy 
for it is literally filled with hu­
mor, lampoons, criticisms, and 
beautiful extravagant co-eds tak­
en directly from this campus.
General Chairman 
To Be Elected 
At Senior Banquet
The class of 1959 organization 
committee has announced that a 
general chairman of the class re­
union committee will be elected, 
for the first time, at the Senior 
Banquet to be held at Webster 
Hall Hotel on Thursday, May 7.
The general chairman will be 
in charge of organizing the first 
class reunion during Homecoming 
weekend of 1963. The general 
chairman will be elected by secret 
ballot by his own classmates and 
will pick his committee to assist 
him with this important job.
Change From Past
In previous years this committee 
and the chairman have been 
[continued on page 7]
Nine Belles Vie 
For Queen Choice
The annual Spring Carnival queen presentations were 
held yesterday during the lunch hour. With Don Beaman 
emceeing the program, five sororities officially introduced 
their queen candidates to the campus in skits based on the 
theme of Carnival, “Spring*—--------------------------------------—---- 
Steals. Tody Emmert and Bev Scott. With
Two trophies will be awarded the aid of singing and dancing 
at the Carnival Ball for the firstj choruses, “the witches three,” of- 
and second-place skits. Judging fered a solution for getting a 
the presentations were Earl queen rather than a king on the 
Wheeler, head of the Earl Wheeler! throne. The unmasking of the first 
Finishing School, Alma Lind, of two witches who were revealed as
the Pittsburgh Playhouse, and a 
member of the KDKA staff. 
Judging
The sorority skits were judged 
on the basis of the effectiveness of
Student Congress 
Meeting Today
Queen Voting
Voting for Spring Carnival 
Queen will be held Friday, 
April 24, from 11:30 a.m. to 
1:30 p.m. on the Cut and in 
Skibo. Voters will cast their 
ballots for two queen candi­
dates. Voters must use only 
their own ID cards.
the skit as a whole, including the 
singing, choreography, costumes, 
make-up, props, and the ability of 
the entrant to make its candidates 
the focal point of the skit. The 
effectiveness of the original words 
or lyrics was another important 
consideration.
Chi Omega’s skit, based on 
“Macbeth,” introduced queens
the queens, was followed by the 
singing of ‘‘There Is Nothing Like 
a Queen,” and “Bev and Tody Are 
the Two for Us.”
Delta Gamma 
In their skit “The Abduction of 
the Sabine Women,” the D.G.’s re­
vealed the truth of the Sabine 
story. The Sabine women, “ spin- 
sterish clan,” actually wanted to 
be abducted, it seemed, but it took 
Roman goddesses Audrey Camp 
and Peggy Lengyel to teach them 
how to do it. The D.G.’s, in their 
singing and dancing predicted thal 
Techites, just like Roman soldiers 
would fall when they met D.G. 
goddesses, Audrey and Peg.
The flapper returned again this 
year with the Theta's skit presen- 
[continued on paje 7]
Dean Teare To Be President 
Of ASEE At June Convention
Dr. B. R. Teare, Jr., Dean of E&S, will be president-elect 
of the American Society for Engineering Education when the 
organization holds its sixty-seventh annual conference in 
Pittsburgh this June. ?-----------------------------------------------
“Approximately 2500 college 
administrators, faculty engineers 
and their families, and students 
are expected to attend the na­
tional meeting,” stated Dr. Wal­
ton Forstall, Professor of mechan­
ical engineering and junior co- 
chairman of the week-long event.
Tech and Pitt Co-hosts 
Since Carnegie Tech and Pitt 
are co-hosts for the conference, 
most of the programs will be c\ 
these campuses. The one “off- 
campus” day, as guests of industry 
program, will feature tours of
G. L. Bach, Dean of GSIA; Dr.
D. W. Ver Planck, Mech. Eng.; 
and Dr. Carl Monrad, Chem. E. 
who will read papers. Dr. H. R. 
Bintzer, vice-president, will pre­
side at two meetings, and Dr. 
Robert Schmertz, of Arch., will 
provide entertainment at the 
opening mixer.
Social Program 
Special programs, organized by 
Mrs. Walton Forstall and Dr. L. 
N. Canjar, are planned for the 
women and children, respectively.
The ASEE purpose is to advance 
scientific and technological educa-Tech’s nuclear research center at j tional goals and methods. As evi-Saxonburg, Westinghouse and 
Gulf research centers, and other 
local industries.
Carnegie faculty will be repre­
sented in the programs by Dr.
denced by the annual conferences, 
the organization also promotes a 
fraternal spirit among those in­
volved in various phases of the 
business of education.
Spring
Steals
1959

---------------------------------------------------

"I"’
Tmgt t—CARNEGIE TARTAN—Wednesday, April 22, 1959
Address
* Phone
Submitted by
Twin Research Grants
Dr. Penny Given 
$78,000 Grant 
For Pollution Study
The National Institute of Health 
has made a grant of over $78,000 
to Gaylord W. Penney, George 
Westinghouse Professor at Car­
negie Tech for further studies at­
tacking the problem of industrial 
air pollution.
Professor Penney has been 
working in this field for 25 years 
and is well known for his develop­
ment of the Precipitron electronic 
air cleaner for the home, business, 
and industry.
Not Always Effective
Electrostatic precipitators have 
the ability to remove very small 
particles from waste gases, usually 
more effectively than competing 
methods. While the method is 
successful in removing most waste 
particles, there are occasions when 
it is not effective because the 
waste particles cannot be retained 
on the collecting electrode.
“This grant from the National 
Institute of Health will be used 
to improve our understanding of 
the exact behavior of particles 
during the precipitation process,” 
Professor Penney stated. “It will 
enable us to develop tests to pre­
dict the performance of a precip- 
tator in a given application. The 
emphasis will be on a study of 
the behavior of fine particles un­
der the influence of an electric
Professor Penney points out 
that while a great deal of prog­
ress has been made as attested 
by the new look enjoyed in Pitts­
burgh, there are still certain in­
dustrial areas which present prob­
lems, particularly some phases of 
steel making.
However, the steel industry is 
continuing to invest money in the 
best available equipment while 
supporting research to develop 
more effective techniques.
USF Presents 
$25,940 Sum 
For Under grads
The College of Engineering and 
Science at Tech announced on 
Thursday, April 16 the receipt of 
a research grant of $25,940 from 
the National Science Foundation.
The new grant was made to 
Carnegie as part of an experi­
mental program launched recently 
by the NSF to support research at 
the undergraduate level. The plan, 
known ,as the “Undergraduate 
Research Participation Program,” 
has as its fundamental purpose 
the acceleration and enrichment 
of the development of undergrad­
uate engineering and science ma­
jors through direct experience in 
current research. The undergrad­
uates will participate in research 
already in progress and under 
the direction of faculty members.
Involves Nine Departments
The program at Carnegie will 
be administered by Edward R. 
Schatz, Assistant Dean of the col­
lege of engineering and science, 
and will involve nine departments 
in the college. Actual participation 
in the program will begin on 
June 1 of this year when approx­
imately 20 students will be given 
summer jobs in the research lab- 
I oratories throughout the college, 
j A total of 31 students will be 
j supported by the grant which will 
] continue until June, 1960.
The departments involved are 
Chemitsry, Mathematics, Physics,
; Chemical Engineering, Civil En­
gineering, Mechanical Engineer- 
j ing, Metallurgical Engineering,
| and Industrial Management. Only 
i students with high academic rec- 
j ords will be considered for these 
j undergraduate research positions, 
j Carnegie Tech has for many 
i years placed qualified undergrad- 
1 uates in research activity. This 
i new grant will permit even great- 
j er participation.
Omicron Delta Kappa 
Holds Pgh. Convention
The Omicron Delta Kappa Society, national leadership 
honor fraternity for upperclass college men, held its twenty- 
first national convention in Pittsburgh on April 15, 16, 17. 
ODK circles at the University of Pittsburgh and Carnejl|
Tech acted as hosts for the* 
three-day event, one of the largest 
in ODK history.
The convention’s theme was 
“Challenges for Leadership,” and 
the major speakers geared their 
addresses to this idea. Religion, 
education, and industry were the 
major areas represented by these 
speakers: The Reverend James W. 
Kennedy, Rector of the Church of 
the Ascension, New York; Assist­
ant Chancellor John Geise of Pitt; 
and Dr. G. Leland Bach, Dean of 
the Graduate School of Industrial 
Administration at Tech.
Dr. Kennedy opened the con­
vention’s convocation, Thursday 
evening, April 15, with his ad­
dress titled, “Critical Needs of 
Society.” Tech’s Cameron Choir
sang a selection of show tunes 
for the evening’s entertainment. 
Following the first business ses­
sions on* Friday morning, Dr. 
Geise outlined “The Pursuit of 
Excellence,” for the luncheon 
audience. Immediately following 
the model initiation ceremonies 
that afternoon in the Pitt Heinz 
Chapel, the highlight banquet w«l 
held in Webster Hall. Dr. Bach 
delievered the keynote address, 
“Developing Men and Ideas,” a 
task which has been his particular 
responsibility, both with Tech and 
with the United States Steel Com­
pany.'A lavish semi-formal dance 
with the attendance set at 750 
followed the banquet.
¦ Entry Blank¦
I Coed of the Week Contest¦¦ Name .............................................................................
Keep On Your 
Toes With NOQOZ
• When the student body sit# 
in class all day, getting numb 
at both ends, be crazy like 
a fox. Keep on your toes with 
NoDoz. Be alert for late-hour 
studying and hep on late 
dates. Safe as coffee and much 
more convenient.
kNote to Prexy: NoDoz will keep your Faculties alert, too.
Maggie Brown
Sophomore Clothing Major
Pittsburgh Colleges 
To Participate 
In Convocation
A major event in the celebra­
tion of the Pittsburgh Bicenten­
nial will take place May 12 when 
the five Pittsburgh institutions of 
higher learning join in a Bicen­
tennial Convoaction at Syria 
Mosque.
Faculty members from Carnegie 
Tech, Chatham College, Duquesne 
University, Mount Mercy College, 
and the University of Pittsburgh 
will proceed in academic garb 
from Carnegie Institute to the 
Mosque, where the Convocation 
will begin at 11:00 a.m.
Program
The program will include a 
major address by Dr. Henry 
Steele Commager, Pittsburgh- 
born historian and now a profes­
sor at Amherst College. Each of 
the five institutions taking part 
will award an honorary degree.
Classes scheduled for the 9:30 
and 10:30 hours will be cancelled 
for this Convocation. Faculty 
members are urged to invite stu­
dents to attend as a part of the 
general audience.
Tech Students 
In Competition
Carnegie Tech is represented by 
four students in the semi-final 
eliminations for the annual John 
Stewardson Memorial Scholarship 
in Architecture.
Architectural students from the 
Pennsylvania State University, 
University of Pennsylvania, and 
Carnegie Tech entered the compe­
tition. A final test to be held at a 
later date will determine who will 
win the scholarship for 1959.
Competitors
Results of the preliminary test 
show the following students who 
will compete for the award: Bar­
bara Anderson, Peter E. Helge- 
sen, Charles Jackson, and Gary 
Bell, alternate, all from Carnegie 
Tech.
The University of Pennsylvania 
is represented by Edmund Berger, 
and Penn State by James Wehler.
This is the 55th annual competi­
tion for the John Stewardson Me­
morial Scholarship, established in 
memory of John Stewardson, an 
architect who died ‘in 1895, by 
a group of his admirers. Students 
from the department of architec­
ture at Carnegie Tech were recip­
ients of this award in 1957 and 
1958.
The award enables a student to 
pursue the study of architecture 
in the United States or abroad as 
approved by the scholarship com­
mittee.
We require a B.S. or an advanced degree 
in mathematics or the physical sciences. 
Experience in your university’s computing 
facility is highly desirable.
SPACE TECHNOLOGY
Computer programmers & 
applied mathematicians
High speed digital computers and expanding 
computing systems require individuals 
with more than the usual amount of 
interest and ability in the fields of Applied 
Mathematics and related computer 
programming.
Our Computation and Data Reduction 
Center in Southern California is one of the 
largest and most advanced facilities in 
the nation. Three of the largest and most 
modem high-speed digital computers 
(IBM 709, 704, and UNIVAC 1103A) are 
utilized in the support of Systems Engineering 
for the Air Force Ballistic Missile Program 
and space flight studies.
Contact ydur placement office for an 
application, or send any inquiries to Space 
Technology Laboratories, Inc. to 
the attention of Mr. Gerald Backer.
Space Technology £Qk 
Laboratories, Inc.
P.O. Box 95004, Los Angeles 45, California
Coed Of Oke Week
Offers work of the future 
...today I

---------------------------------------------------

Wednesday. April 22, 1959—CARNEGIE TARTAN—Page J
COLLEGE WOMEN
—STUDENTS AND GRADUATES—Duff's 8-Week Shorthand Course
With the Famous, Easy-to-Learn
for Lecture Notes—for Better Jobs
CLASSES BEGIN 
Day School: June 8, July 6, Aug. 3 
Evening School:
June 2, June 23, July 14, Aug. 4
For further information telephone Mrs. Alice Cecere, 
ATlantic 1-5386 or send coupon
DUFF’S
BUSINESS INSTITUTE
Clark Building, 717 Liberty Ave., Pittsburgh 22, Pa.
Air-Conditioned Classrooms
ft ¦¦ - Deluxe Orchid Corsages From Hawaii 50th State Special $3.95
For your graduation or prom, these lovely orchids from Hawaii. By special process each corsage is sealed in a vial of 
chemically treated water. Corsages will last for many days, after arrival.
All corsages shipped airmail special delivery. We pay 
shipping charges and guarantee arrival in perfect condition. Allow 7 days from day ordered. All orders for Mother’s Day 
must be received by April 30th. Write or wire your orders specifying arrival date desired to:
& SOUTH PACIFIC ORCHIDS
1145 Bishop Street Honolulu 13, Hawaii Cable Address — “Southpacor”
Please enclose money order or check with order. No C.O.D. orders accepted.
Gretchen Frebretshauser and Ellen Travolta in a scene from 
“Set ’Em LTp Again”
I hope you have all been taking advantage of your local foreign 
film theatre. Here you will find no simple-minded Hollywood 
products, marked by treacly sentimentality and machine-made 
£ bravura. Here you will find life itself—in all its grimness, its 
poverty, its naked, raw passion!
Have you, for instance, seen the recent French import, Le 
Crayon de Mon Onde (“The Kneecap”), a savage and uncom­
promising story of a man named Claude, whose consuming 
ambition is to get a job as a meter reader with the Paris water 
department? But he is unable, alas, to afford the flashlight 
one needs for this position. His wife, Bon-Bon, sells her hair 
to a wigmaker and buys him a flashlight. Then, alas, Claude 
discovers that one also requires a leatherette bow tie. This time 
his two young daughters, Caramel and Nougat, sell their hair 
to a wigmaker. So now Claude has his leatherette bow tie, 
but now, alas, his flashlight battery is burned out and the 
whole family, alas, is bald.
Or have you séen the latest Italian masterpiece, La Donna E 
Mobile (I Ache All Over), a heart-shattering tale of a boy and 
his dog? Malvolio, a Venetian lad of nine, loves his little dog 
with every-fibre of his being. He has one great dream: to enter 
the dog in the annual Venetian dog show. But this, alas, requires 
an entrance fee, and Malvolio, alas, is penniless. However, he 
saves and scrimps and steals and finally gets enough together 
4» to enter the dog in the show. The dog, alas, comes in twenty- 
third. Malvolio sells him to a vivisectionist.
Or have you seen the new Japanese triumph, Kibutzi-San 
(The Radish), a pulse-stirring historical romance about Yamoto, 
a poor farmer, and his daughter Ethel who are accosted by a 
warlord one morning on their way to market? The warlord cuts 
Yamoto in half with his samurai sword and runs off with Ethel. 
When Yamoto recovers, he seeks out Ethel’s fiancé, Red 
Buttons, and together they find the warlord and kill him. But, 
alas, the warlord was also a sorcerer and he whimsically turned 
Ethel into a whooping crane. Loyal Red Buttons takes Ethel 
• home where he feeds her fish heads for twenty years and keeps 
hoping she’ll turn back into a woman. She never does. Alas.
9 !»&» Mu Shut«
If there'» »making in the balcony of your theatre, we hope 
you'll he smoking Philip Morris—or, if you prefer filter», 
Marlboro ... Marlboro—new improved filter, fine rich flavor 
—from the maker» of Philip Morii*,
“Ta, Ta, Ta: Musn’t Raise Your Fist” says Don Antanasio as he 
and Steve Harr tangle in a scene from “Set ’Em Up Again,” the new 
Scotch ‘n Soda musical which will play ApiHl 27-30.
WRITE FOR FREE INFORMATION FOLDER
Including Sample Shorthand Lesson
NAME ................................................................................
ADDRESS .........................................................................
Mall to DUFF'S BUSINESS INSTITUTE 
Clark Building. 717 Liberty Ave., Pittsburgh it. P*. T
On Campos MaxShuJman
(By the Author of “Rally Round the Flag, Boys! "and, 
“Barefoot Boy with Cheek.”)
I Know Its Just A Bit Part» 
But 1 Get Lots Of Laugh».*
HI
s
VIVE LE POPCORN!
The other day as I was walking down the street picking up 
tinfoil, (Marlboro, incidentally, has the best tinfoil, which is 
not surprising when you consider that they have the best ciga­
rettes, which is lfot surprising when you consider that they take 
the best filters and put them together with the best tobaccos 
and rush them to your tobacco counter, fresh and firm and 
loaded with smoking pleasure). The other day, I say, as I was 
walking down the street picking up tinfoil, (I have, incidentally, 
the second largest ball of tinfoil in our family. My brother 
Eleanor’s is bigger—more than four miles in diameter—but, of 
course, he is taller than I). The other day, as I was saying, while 
walking down the street picking up tinfoil, I passed a campus 
and right beside it, a movie theatre which specialized in show­
ing foreign films. Most campuses have foreign movie theatres 
close by, because foreign movies are full of culture, art, and 
esoterica, and where is culture more rife, art more rampant, 
and esoterica more endemic than on a campus?
Nowhere; that’s where.
’em
asa,i
P

---------------------------------------------------

Paffe 4—CARNEGIE TARTAN—Wednesday, April 22, 1955
Editorial
Improve the IM Fields
One cannot help but notice recently that 
the quality of the playing in intramural 
sports has been far superior to the quality of 
the intramural fields themselves.
Good ball teams are forced to play on 
muddy, unkept fields, making chance instead 
of skill the determining factor in many 
games.
Not only is the quality of the game ham­
pered, but also the possibility of injury to 
those playing is also augmented. Ruts, de­
pressions and mounds left over from spring 
football practice and from last year are 
dangerous hazards to ball players especially 
during the darkness in which many games 
are played.
With Carnegie Tech in the midst of its 
development program it is not unreasonable 
that some things must suffer while construc­
tion is being carried out. However, it seems 
possible that better care could be taken care 
of the intramural fields so that Techites can 
continue to point to the intramural program 
as one of the school’s finer programs.
LITTLE MAN ON® CAM PUS
"ßgTTgR. LEAV£ HIM LOOKlNó FOft TH£6ß
MOR£ WORP0 TO FINISH A 10,000 Wtffcp THEME. *
??????????????????????
Frank L. Wright
CJLe aiate
ar
By Barb Jones
The final concei’t of the 1958-59 
season of the Pittsburgh Sym­
phony of April 24 and 26 will be 
the most outstanding performance 
of the entire season in many ways.
Conductor William Steinberg has 
chosen Beethoven’s choral work, 
“Fidelio,” (to be sung in English), 
for the climax of the Beethoven 
series and the symphonic season. 
The choir is made up of a large 
group of singers who hold nation­
wide fame—Margaret Harshow of 
the Metropolitan Opera; Richard 
Cassilly, Joshue Hecht and Frank 
Porretta of the New York City 
Opera, and numerous others.
Student Choir
The Carnegie Tech music de­
partment’s student choir will com­
prise one-half of the choir; being 
selected to sing in this outstand­
ing presentation is a great honor 
to the music department’s choir. 
Karl Kritz, the choral conductor, 
has spent many weeks rehearsing 
for this production; in all, it will 
be an exceptional concert. This is 
one performance that should not 
be missed.
Bach Choir Will Perform
The Bach Choir of Pittsburgh, 
consisting of more than 100 voices, 
will perform Saturday, April 25, 
at 8:15 p.m. at the Carnegie Music 
Hall. The program will include 
“A German Requiem” and the 
dramatic cantata “Sleepers, 
Awake.” Dr. James W. Evans, 
musical director of the Mt. Leb­
anon United Presbyterian Church, 
will conduct the choir and the ac­
companying Pittsburgh Symphony 
musicians. Tickets are obtainable 
at Horne’s, Gimbels, and the box 
office.
Isaac Stein, violinist, will be the
pllllllllllllllllllllllllllllillllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllilllllllllllllllllllll^ 
| Readers Write . . . |
Hfiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiii
Higher Student Ideals
Editor, the Tartan;
In his letter to this column, a week ago, Mr. Krueger 
mentioned that students, in other lands demonstrate only be­
cause of the higher ideals in life. In my experience, it seems
that people, not only students, ?----------------------------------------------------
not in order to obtain what they this not doubly apply? all>
guest of the final North Allegheny 
Civic Music Assn. at 8:30 p.m. 
Saturday, April 25 in the North 
Allegheny High School auditorium.
Art
Until April 24, “The Five Cen­
turies of Drawings” exhibit from 
the Carnegie Institute will be 
showing at the Hewlitt Gallery.
At Chatham College from April
20 to May 11, the 1958 Bicentennial 
Exhibition including 35 oils, wa- 
tercolors, and graphics is showing.
Jazz
On Thursday, May 7, Benny 
Goodman and his orchestra, 
Ahmad Jamal, and Dakota Staton 
will play at the Mosque in an all­
jazz concert.
Tickets range from $2-$4 and 
are available at the Box Office, 
R. E. Boltz Agency, Horne’s and 
Gimbels.
Erroll Gardner will appear at 
the Syria Mosque on Thursday, 
April 30, at 8:30 p.m. Tickets 
range from $2-$4 and are obtain­
able at the same places as the all­
jazz concert.
Drama
At the Playhouse, “Middle of 
the Night” is playing at the Ham­
let Street Theater, “To the Point,” 
a musical revue, is at the Craft 
Avenue Theater, and “The Rope 
Dancers” is playing at the The­
ater Upstairs.
do not have. In this context, the 
notorious panty-raid would seem 
to be loth reasonable and under­
standable.
it is also our creed that each man 
learn from his own experience. 
When we came, we accepted this 
as one of the conditions of ourIt should then be obvious to the I hfe here Thug> j feel that Mr 
unjustly treated Mr. Downey that £)OWney cannot have reason to 
the proper course of action in this cornp]ajn 
case would not be to resort to! ' , _ .
mob tactics in order to obtain an I , F«~“‘ ,"‘erest
end, more easily achieved, in the ! ^e eni°y< here, a personal in­
tradition of this great country, by j terest on the part of the faculty 
private initiative. And this, I ! unparalleled, certainly, in any of
Ihink, is true even in spite of the the colleges^ I have attended in 
very strict Morewood regulations.
Undermine Liberties
the past. If the administration 
were to intervene in our relations 
with the outside public, it would 
It is not, however, to preach unbalance this interest which, 
to Mr. Downey that I am writing though personal, does not, as yet 
this letter. It is the solution to deprive us of our responsibilities, 
this problem, which the conceived nor unduly restrict our freedom 
in outraged righteousness, that I ! of action. Were we to demand a 
wish to debate. If carried out, his protectiveness, similar to that 
demand that the administration given by a parent to a child, we 
back Tech students in their out- ; would then have to be ready, also, 
side troubles would, 1 feel, under- j to accept much stricter rules of 
mine many of the liberties we now the house; even children have ob- 
enjoy at Tech. ligations to their parents. I do not
It can safely be said that, no- ; think that even Mr. Downey, with 
where does a college contract the j all this just cause for complaint 
obligation to extricate its students against the processes of law, 
from their scrapes when it accepts would wish this on us. 
their fees. Here, at Tech, does ¦ Michael Adler.
Blenheim
Blenheim:
The naive and inexperienced 
collegians are certainly aware of 
the undesirable effects of alcohol 
and if morals do sag they prob­
ably began sagging before the co­
ercion anyway.
Because there are as many rea­
sons for the Friday and Saturday 
drinking bouts as there are indi­
viduals concerned, your “Total 
Abstinence” will undoubtedly re­
ceive many vindictive replies. 
Whether alcohol is a direct cause 
or an excuse for riots and study 
evasion remains to be seen. It 
seems to me, though, that some­
thing more significant is at stake.
Individual Matter
You are aware that Tech is a 
leader in many respects, but it 
enjoys this position only because 
it has been able to train capable 
leaders. Limiting or rejecting the 
use of alcohol should originate 
with the individual, and, while 
Nikita Krushchev is able to warn 
the Russian people of the evil ef­
fects of drink, he seems unable to 
take such admirable advice him­
self.
Tech has produced leaders not 
by rigid control but by trying to 
guide its students to a realization 
of maturity. Clamping another 
control over the student body will 
tend to produce not leaders but 
followers—something which this 
nation seems to have too many of 
already.
The death last week of Frank Lloyd 
Wright caused a flurry of public interest in 
the more unorthodox' aspects of his life, his 
loves, and his buildings. If this were all that 
Mr. Wright had to offer to the world then hq^ 
memory would best be erased and his influ­
ence would most wisely be avoided.
But beneath the flair, the conceit, the 
outrageous statements, there man a consist­
ent and impatient philosophy of democracy 
and a vigorous hatred of all conformity
__________________which is in the noble tradition of Jefferson
and Whitman. In his day when lesser spirits falter and tl% 
concepts of liberal democracy are under attack from all sides, 
it will be good to remember that a man like Wright fought 
and built for six years, and through all adversity kept humor 
and love and invention alive.
Here are two exserpts from his writings which may help 
to illuminate the spirit of Frank Lloyd Wright.
“The terms of democratic salvation may only be found 
deep within man himself by his comprehension of the basic 
principles of nature and of his own human nature. Then-.^) 
without popular prejudice, sentimentality, or fear—we will 
achieve the native culture we can can honestly call our own. 
We will reach the expressions of our own democratic nature 
by probing the depths to discover our one-ness. More import­
ant than war or ‘segregation’ is this original idea of ‘integra­
tion’. Integration that lies implicit in life as in art, archi­
tecture and natural religion.”
“The dignity and worth to himself of the soul of in­
dividual man—a man no longer a tool of power or of a mo% 
arch or of any exterior authority, a man not bowed down to 
sacrificial mysticism, but man free. Kingship now of his own 
soul ruled by conscience and increasingly cultured intel­
ligence. This man has risen himself gradually coming awake 
to power even greater than man’s primitive power because it 
is power of the spirit. A new ideal of civilization arises based 
upon freedom of man’s mind guided by his conscience. In 
view of this new abstraction the past subsides. Even higher 
come new interpretations of old power by man’s new migh^ 
Spirit is man’s new power if he is to be truly mighty in his 
civilization. Only Art and Religion can bring this new vision 
as reality to a nation. Only the free man brings freedom. This 
new sense of life comes to his own nation and to the modern 
world as well. So Art and Architecture, soon his Religion 
too, must be new. The spiritually dignity of this new humane 
life for mankind, is the Spirit of Man himself sacrosanct. 
America has made this commitment. How are we to live up 
to the promise of that commitment? Where find the true sac­
rifices by and for this new man in this new world we call t m 
United States of America?”
^CARNEGIE
TARTAN
CARNEGIE INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY
OFFICES: Carnegie Union, 5075 Forbes Avenue, Pittsburgh 13, 1^$ Office Phone, MU 2-4557; Editor MU 2-9211; Advertising Manager MU 
2-8851. Published weekly during the school year except holidays and 
examination periods by the students of Carnegie Institute of Tech­nology, Pittsburgh 13, Pa.
Editor . . .............................. ...................... .....................Jeremiah 1». Sullivan
Associate Editor ................................................................................ Frank J. Baioh
Business Manager .................................................................................. Lee Adlesherg
News Editor ............. ....................... ...........................................Jan Notopoulos
Sports Editor ...................................................... .....................................Chock Vodvarka
Copy Editor ........................................................ ..............  Jack ( ashman
Feature Editor—Rena Siegel, Photography Editor—Fred Beste, Assistant Business Manager—Mike Balsam, Advertising Manager—
Miles Holander, Secretary—Audry Dolan, Circulation Manager—Jo|£Mowery.
News Staff—Mike Brunt, Dori Cline, Linda Friedlob, Sally Gan- 
ong, Paul Hess, Phil James, Beth Liden, Bill Mohney, Betsy Moss, Bob 
Nowak, Terrie Rudy, Carolyn Saxton, Ira Shapiro, Georgia White, 
Lois Wolfe.
Copy Staff—Spence Anderson, Mary Ann Melton, Janis Geisler, Jim Whalen.
Second Class postage paid at Pittsburgh. Pa.Repr««ented /or national advertising by National Advertising, Inc.
fi

---------------------------------------------------

Wednesday, Apri! 22, 1959—CARNEGIE TARTAN—Pag« 5
"It'slow types of police stations.'
Printing Department Will Offer 
Six Week Summer School
Practically all phases of printing will be covered in six- 
week summer school courses at Carnegie Tech’s school of 
printing management, June 22 to August 1.
The six-week session, which annually attracts people em­
ployed in the printing industry all 
over the country, is under the di­
rection of Kenneth R. Burchard, 
assistant dean of the school of 
printing management. Last year 
¡students enrolled in these courses 
presented 19 states and four 
foreign countries.
Queen Tours
The sororities will tour the 
fraternity houses and under­
graduate men’s dorms and 
Mudge Hall tonight and to­
morrow night, April 22 and 
23, from 7-10 p.m., to present 
their Carnival Queen presen­
tation skits.
WHAT DO YOU KNOW 
ABOUT DIAMONDS?
Practically nothing, if you are the average college 
student.
Then how do you go about buying a diamond ring when 
the time comes? The most intelligent approach is to 
learn something about the gem.
GLOBE JEWELRY CO. invites your inquiry and wel­
comes the opportunity to discuss diamonds with you and 
show you the difference. You will then be qualified to 
make a decision, and of course no obligation.
As a wholesale jeweler, we are able to save you a con­
siderable amount of money. Also suitable terms can 
be arranged.
iilolie .Jewelrv (1o.w
1048 FIFTH AVE. CO. 1-7378 PITTSBURGH 1». PA.
DIAMONDS - WATCHES - JEWELRY
ESSO RESEARCH works wonders with oil
Helps “mirror” finishes hold bright future
Newman Club 
Has Elections
Summer Courses
According to Professor Bur- 
chard, these summer printing
courses are identical to those given 
in the regular academic year. They 
carry college credit and enable 
teachers of printing, employees of 
commercial printing plants, and 
others interested in the graphic 
;{£s to refresh their knowledge 
and acquire new skills and tech­
niques.
Courses in planning, design,
estimating, cost accounting, sales 
and management will be offered 
as well as skill-development
courses in typography, machine 
composition, presswork, and pho­
tolithography.
Summer students are free to*
te only those courses 
d fees are arranged on an 
vidual basis. Applicants will be 
accepted without regard to previ­
ous education, training, or ex­
perience if the applicant feels 
is qualified or capable of handling 
the work.
Increase Earning Power
In making the announcement, 
Professor Burchard added, “Here 
is an opportunity for individuals 
M, increase their earning power 
«retaining specialized training. Our 
modern facilities and the regular 
professional staff will be at the 
summer students’ disposal.”
Advanced applications and re­
quests for information may be fil­
ed with the director of summer 
sessions, Carnegie Institute of 
Technology, Pittsburgh 13, Penn­
sylvania.
The Club elections were held on 
April 7, the following being elect­
ed to office:
President—Joe Ladik, first vice- 
president—Bill Hughes, Second 
f^ce-president—Jim Burns, Treas­
urer—Liane Celio, secretary—Dee 
Taschler, Sergeant-at-arms — Gil 
MoGurl.
Father Donald Krause Is the 
new Director of Newman Clubs 
lor the Pittsburgh Diocese. He re­
places Father Joseph R. Berk- 
myre.
Even the finishes are exciting on the new cars! They have new color, new gleam. They stay new looking longer, 
seldom need polishing, shrug off bad weather. Esso Research helped in perfecting these fine finishes by 
developing fast-drying solvents derived from oil Your car looks better, runs better — 
because ESSO RESEARCH works wonders with oti f £SSO^

---------------------------------------------------

Thinklish: PAWMOStTY
'iikRtU»»
Thinklkh: WITCHWATCH I0OH*'-D MACPHMson,
raff« 6—CARNEGIE TARTAN—Wednesday, April 22. 1959
This page edited by Evening School Students of the 
Carnegie Institute of Technology
Editor...................................................................................Dennis DeStefano
Circulation Manager ........................................................... Jim Morrisard
Evening Council To Present 
Special Achievement Aivard
Practically every year Evening Student Council presents 
a special award known as the Achievement Award to some 
deserving student of evening school who is graduating.
The Achievement Award is the highest honor that we, 
the student body of evening ?----------------------------—------------------—Ischool, can present to one of our 
number.
Newmanites Make 
Plans For April 
Atlantic Conventioi
By Shirley Kreidwise
Baltimore, Maryland, is the site 
of the Middle Atlantic Province 
Convention April 24 through 26.
The theme, “Are Your Ethics 
Catholic” will prove both interest­
ing and valuable to all Newman- 
ites. Father Keller of the Christo­
pher Movement will be just one 
of the outstanding speakers.
The Hotel Emerson will accom­
modate Newmanites attending this 
convention for $4.00 a night. A 
registration fee of $10.00 will cov­
er the Friday night mixer, insti­
tutes, workshops, Saturday ban­
quet, grand ball, and Communion 
breakfast.
So how about it, See you at 
Baltimore? We hope that Tech’s 
attendance at this convention will 
be as outstanding as it was at 
the Indiana Leadership Weekend.
The award itself consists of 
three parts. The first is a gold en­
graved key, the second a certifi­
cate of recognition, and third the 
wrho, if anyone, will receive the 
tra-curricular activity wrhile at­
tending Carnegie Evening School.
Evening Student Council decides 
on a plaque whicn hangs in Ad­
ministration Hall.
Candidates for the award are 
selected by the administration on 
the basis of scholastic standing, 
vocational achievements and ex­
name of the recipient engraved 
award after interviewing each
candidate and voting in a secret 
ballot.
The name of the person selected 
to receive the award is a care­
fully guarded secret until the 
night of the Evening Student 
Council Banquet. You may con­
gratulate this years winner in 
person by attending the banquet.
Great Scot
On Sale
April 28
The Woodlown Pharmacy 
Caters To Smart People
Prescriptions are our business. And our business is different 
from any other business. Here is &here our business is different! 
You can’t look up the price for that prescription in the news­
paper ads, nor can you compare this prescription with the price 
your Aunt Tessie paid for her prescription last month. The 
reason is obvious — each prescription is individually designed 
for a specific condition in an entirely different person. The point 
is that your prescription is not a commodity like a loaf of bread 
or a can of paint. There are no “specials” on prescriptions for 
heart conditions nor a “sale” on compounds for high blood pres­
sure! And this is rightly so. Nevertheless, sometimes misunder­
standings about prescription prices occur. To prevent such situa­
tions, we wish you would show us your prescription and ask 
the cost of filling it. Give us a few minutes to check the ingredi­
ents and quantities, and we will be pleased to tell you exactly 
how much we must charge. In fact, we’ll bo|h feel better about 
it. You—because you will know in advance what the cost will 
be. We—because we will know that you are exercising your 
prerogative of doing business where you want. That proves you 
are smart and intelligent. That is one reason they shop at the 
Woodlawn Pharmacy.
THÌNKUSH
Student Banquet 
Offering Yarietl 
Choice of Menu
This year’s Evening Student j 
Banquet is different than most 
other banquets in regard to its i 
menu.
Most other banquets offer only 
one main course, but not ours, j 
We are offering a choice of either 
stuffed pork chops or swiss steak 1 
as main courses to those attending : 
our banque.
We will begin with a fresh fruit : 
cup, move on to a tossed salad, j 
then your choice of “Stuffed Pork \ 
Chops” or “Swiss Steak” with j 
whipped potatoes and a vegetable j 
as the main coures, concluding ; 
with a black raspberry sunade.
Also offered are door prizes in- ' 
eluding at least one portable tran- ! 
sistor radio, dancing and a floor ! 
show.
Get WILDR00T 
CREAM0IL Charlie!
UiT
J. CAESAR,Italian politician, say*:"All 
the boys in Rome uh Wildroot on 
their dome! How about you?”
ft
Just a litri« bit 
of Wild root 
and... WOW 1
Take a word—amplifier, for example. With it, you can make a wet 
microphone (¿amplifier), a torch singer’s mike (vamplifier), a boxing-ring 
loudspeaker (champlifier) or a P.A. system in an army post (camplifier). 
That’s Thinklish—and it’s that easy! We’re paying $25 for the Thinklish 
words judged best—your check is itching to go! Send your words to Lucky 
Strike, Box 67A, Mt. Vernon, New York. Enclose your name, address, 
college or university and class.
HOW TO MAKE *25
Get the genuine articleGet the honest tasteof a LUCKY STRIKE
Product of is our middle mme
English: HILLTOP HASH HOUSE
Thinklish translation: This diner is 
perched on a mountain peak, which 
makes it a crestaurant! The view is tops 
—but from there on, things go downhill. 
A typical meal includes a puny melon 
(scantaloupe) and your choice of sand­
wiches (shamburgers or rankfurters). It’s 
all served up, naturally, on 50-yr.-old 
dishes {crockery). Best course to take: 
light up a Lucky . . . enjoy the honest 
taste of fine tobacco. There’s no tip 
at the end!
25,940• WhentEnglish: HAG’S TIMEPIECE
English: AVERSION
Klin ---

---------------------------------------------------

Wednesday, April «, 1959—CARNEGIE TARTAN—Page 7
GERALD A. PARSONS received his B.A. in 
1950 and his M.B.A. one year later, both 
from Cornell University. He joined General 
Electric in 1954 and is presently Specialist- 
Marketing Administration in the company’s 
Large Steam Turbine-Generator Department.
!------------: AarMinH.../.frWS»«*
Banquet-
[Continued from page 1] 
chosen by the alumni federation. 
It is felt that a more complete 
job will be realized if the chair­
man has the backing of his class­
mates. The committee will contact 
the 1959 winner in 1963 and plan 
«ae 1959 wimmer in 1963 and plan 
tlH events of the reunion week­
end.
Invitations to the banquet have 
already been sent out. Students 
are urged to plan for the correct 
number of plates, as a large at­
tendance is expected.
The Election
The Conducton of the election 
of a general chairman is the first 
of three purposes of this commit-
11 be the planning of the ban- 
llet and the planning of the al­
umni fund drive to follow the 
banquet.
Since it is necessary that only 
those interested people work on 
the reunion committee, it is the 
wish of the 1959 organization 
committee that the names of in­
terested individuals be submitted 
to Bob Cleveland. To facilitate 
this, those seniors wishing to sub-«
it names should use the blank 
eluded at the end of this article.
The committee will then con­
tact those seniors whose names 
have been presented. A final sec­
ret ballot will be prepared and 
attached to the program at Senior 
Banquet, at which time the voting 
will take place. The winner will 
be announced during a later part 
of the banquet.
“Most Ancient 
Holiday” To Be 
Assembly Topic
By Georgia White
“The World’s Most Ancient 
Holiday,” will be the topic of 
Rabbi Richard L. Rubenstein, 
Tech’s Hillel sponsor, at the April
28 assembly program at 11:30 in 
Fine Arts Theater.
Using contemporary scientific 
research in the field of religion, 
Rabbi Rubenstein, will show how 
both the Jewish Passover and the 
Christian Easter arise out of an 
older more basic holiday. By dis­
cussing modern findings on their 
common origins, he will elucidate 
the difference and similarities of 
these two religious celebrations.
Completes Master Degree 
After completing his under­
graduate work at Harvard, Rabbi 
Rubenstein continued his study 
there *and became the first Rabbi 
to receive a master’s degree of 
theology from the Divinity School. 
While at Harvard he was associate 
director of Hillel and served a 
congregation in the suburban area 
of Boston.
Included among the colleges 
Rabbi Rubenstein has lectured at 
are Princeton, University of Ver­
mont, University of Connecticut, 
and Yale.
Rabbi Rubenstein has recently 
been named as contributing edi­
tor of the Reconstructionist Maga­
zine and is currently completing 
his Ph. D. thesis in the field of 
psychology of religion.
'... and two cartons of Camels for our leader!
More people drop in for Camels than any other 
cigarette on earth. It stands to reason: the best 
tobacco makes the best smoke. The Camel blend 
of costly tobaccos has never been equalled for rich 
flavor and easygoing mildness.
Put fads and fancy stuff in the past. . .B. 3, Reynolds Tobacco Co., Winston-Salem, N. C.
Have a real cigarette-have a CAMEL
NOMINATION BLANK
Name
Address
Submitted by
[continued from page I]
ration, “Flapper Napper.” The 
Thetas, who were divided into two 
groups, discovered that both of 
the groups had stolen the flapper 
idea, believing this to be the trend 
of the modern woman. Thus, they 
decided to join forces to prevent 
their queens, Becky Conrad and 
Marilyn Greiner.
Kappa Kappa Gamma 
The kinfolk of “Ali Babba and 
e Forty Thieves,” the Kappas in 
isguise, invaded Tech to steal 
hearts. Led by the Kappa queen 
candidates, Lex Baker and Barb 
Krack, the band of thieves set out 
to steal hearts and votes of the 
Tech men, with the magic clue, 
“Open Sesame.”
The Tri-Delta’s skit, “Somebody 
Stole Our Gal,” was centered 
around their queen, Fran Bebic, 
and how she was recovered after 
/¡^jeing stolen from the famous 
lewel thief, Legs Diamond, in the 
1920’s. Dancing, dialogue, and four 
songs from the twenties were fea­
tured in the presentation.
Get WILDR00T CREAM-OIL Charlie!
J. PAUL SHEEDY,* haïr expert, say* : "Wild- 
root keep* hair oeat and ham*ome all day 
long.”
So. HarrU Uiii 1U-, WtUiamufillt. H.t.
Juttalittl* bit 
of Wildroot and...WOW
The biggest challenge 
a man has to face is himself"
“Men and businesses are alike in one respect,” says 
Gerald A. Parsons, 30-year-old marketing and per­
sonnel development specialist. ‘Their success de­
pends to a great extent on how well they respond to 
challenge. And I’ve found that the biggest challenge 
a man has to face on his job is not the competition of 
others — but the far more important one of develop­
ing himself to his fullest capabilities.
“During my four years with General Electric, 
I've had plenty of opportunity for self-development. 
Challenging training assignments at five different 
locations within the company have given me a 
broader understanding of my career area. In my 
present job I have the benefit of working with ex­
perts, both in establishing long-range goals and in 
helping to achieve them. I’ve found that working 
toward future potential is vital in the development 
of successful businesses — and successful men.”
Young men such as Gerry Parsons are important 
to the future of companies like General Electric and 
to the growth of America’s dynamic, competitive- 
enterprise economy. Our nation’s progress will de­
pend more and more upon those forward-looking 
individuals who continue to develop to their fullest 
capabilities during their lifetime.
That is why General Electric provides a climate 
for individual progress — with opportunity for in­
creasing knowledge and skills — for all of its em­
ployees, including 30,000 college graduates. For it 
is only as individuals meet the challenge of self­
development that there continues to be progress for 
a business, an industry, or a nation.
Tfagress fs Our Most Important Producf
GENERAL d ELECTRIC
*

---------------------------------------------------

Fftge 8—CARNEGIE TARTAN—Wednesday. April 22, 1959
“sow" « * KMti«u nwc-MM. oonmiHT O Ma r
Ice age
Lucky us ... today w the modem ice 
age. lots and lots of it in refrigerators 
ready to ice up the Coke. And what 
could be more delicious than frosty 
Coca-Cola ... the real refreshment.
With its cold crisp taste and 
lively lift it’s always Coke for The 
Pause That Refreshes!
BE REALLY REFRESHED ... HAVE A COKE) 
Bottled under authority of The Coca-Cola Company by
QUAKEK STATE COCA-COLA BOTTLING CO.
#782 Cenlei Ave. HI 1-7011
rDrinl1
kt0-2]
LA
12a reinvt yonvu the accomplishments of today are stepping stones 
to continued leadership tomorrow! There is no resting on our laurels— 
either individual or collective, no coasting on a reputation already won. ’ 
Our immediate accomplishments are important for today ... and for the 
future.
That is why work moves ahead rapidly at Bendix Radio and why each 
day brings new, stimulating challenges.
That is why the rewards of success are great . .. and why the scope of 
your future at Bendix Radio is unlimited.
It is important to you—the young engineer-—to start your career off on 
the right track.
You will be on the right track at Bendix Radio.
You will be working with leading scientists and engineers who are 
pioneers in new fields. You will be working in a modem plant with most 
modem equipment. Your work will be of a project nature, and you will 
see projects through from design concept to manufacturing. You will 
receive ample on-the-job training. You will be working in a professional 
atmosphere of exceptional accomplishment .'. . where the importance 
of your career is fully recognized ... where the attitude, the way of work 
and the way of life will encourage your best efforts!
We invite you to consider your future with Bendix Radio TV .* and be 
ahead when tomorrow comes. J
ON CAMPUS— APRIL 24
See your Placement Officer NOW for appointment!
enc/çr ffacf/o
DIVISION OF BENDIX AVIATION CORPORATION • Baltimore 4, Moryland
KapA Lnhowimj... the, Univme
Many 
Upsets 
In IM 
Softball
Carnegie Tartan
Varsity
Tennis
Opens
Chuck Vodvarka — Sports Editor
Intramural
Higlilites
From the two handball leagues, 
only five teams remain unde­
feated.
The Faculty Bulldogs vs. the 
Obelisk victor will be the winner 
of one of the leagues. Each has 
four wins. The Tau Delts lead in 
the other league with three wins, 
while BSR and DU each have won 
both of their games.
Chess
Similarly, TDP and the Hang­
ing Pawns are in the same situ­
ation in the King chess league that 
the Faculty Bulldogs and Obelisks 
are in the handball league. Each 
has a 4-0 record and the winner 
of their match will take first place 
in the league. TX has clinched the 
Queen league with their 4-0 rec­
ord,
On Saturday, 16 sets were 
played in the first round in horse­
shoes, while 16 pairs of partners 
drew byes. The 32 remaining 
couples will all compete this Sat­
urday in the second round of play.
The point standings did not 
change during this past week.
Many Upsets In 
Many Expected
Not one softball league sur­
vived an upset in the first three 
days of play this past week.
The first expected winner to 
lose was BSR. The Vet’s defeated 
them last Wednesday, 11-8, by 
their strong finish in the final in­
nings.
KS Loss
Later that night, John Volpel 
pitched to a 5-1 victory over the 
defending champs, KS. The dif­
ference stemmed from two long 
home runs.
On Friday night, SAE got off to 
a 1-0 lead, but TKN retaliated 
with three runs to take the lead 
3-1. Throughout the rest of the 
game, TKN got one run every time 
SAE tied the game. George Cin- 
quegrane’s single in the bottom of 
the sixth, as darkness approached, 
scored the winning run to make 
the score 6-5, TKN.
A minor upset occurred Thurs­
day night when SN defeated ATO, 
7-6, in a loosely played ball game. 
Only one earned run scored in the 
whole game.
Another slight upset was the 
Newman’s Club victory over the 
Falcons. The Falcons had led al­
most the whole game until the 
Newman Club homered several
IM Softball; 
Winners Lose
times to put the latter ahead to 
stay.
The last of the slight upsets was 
the Beta’s defeat by the Phi Kaps. 
After tieing the game at 2-2 in the 
third inning, the Phi Kaps col­
lected three runs in the fourth.
Other wins during the week 
were: the Englishmen stomping 
the Metals Club; the Delts, simi­
larly, stomping the Englishmen; 
TDP defeating the Metals Club; 
SAE dumping the PKA’s; Citcom 
nosing out the Met Grads; and KS 
beating the DUs.
Varsity Tennis 
Season Begins
The Carnegie Tech tennis team, 
strengthened by the return of six 
lettermen, will open the 1959 sea­
son on Tuesday, April 21, against 
Grove City on the Carnegie courts.
The Tartans finished last season 
with a 5-4 record but according 
to Coach Frank Moses should do 
better this year. Gene Krygowski, 
last year’s number one man, is 
back for his final year, as are 
Everett Crisman and George 
Gross, both of whom lettered last 
year.
Other returning lettermen are 
juniors A1 Winters, and Mario 
Volpe and Sophomore Thira Su- 
wan, who is a native of Thailand. 
In addition Coach Moses is hope­
ful that freshmen Steve Ernst, 
Ken Sutherland, and Steve Roth- 
enberg will help the team.
Schedule 
April 21—*Grove City. Home 
April 23—*St. Vincent . .Home 
April 25—*Geneva 
April 28—*Duquesne 
April 29— Allegheny ..Home 
May 4—*St. Francis 
May 6—^Westminster 
May 9— W&J 
May 11—‘Duquesne ...Home 
May 13— Pitt ....... .Home
May 15—*Waynesburg 
* Denotes West Penn Conference 
Matches.
All home meets on Carnegie 
Tech coui'ts at 2:30.
Cliess Team * 
Wins Trophy
Carnegie Tech’s chess team ic- 
cently won the first Pittsburgh 
Chess Team Championship by 
placing ahead of the University of 
Pittsburgh who took second place.
The five round team tournameri® 
was in progress from February 
8, 1959, to April 12, and play took 
place on alternate Sundays. Be­
sides the Pitt and Tech teams, 
three more were organized by 
city chess players, and' a sixth 
was fielded by McKeesport.
Chess Trophy
Carnegie Tech’s team member» 
are Andrew Schoene, George Bay^ 
lor (captain), Annea Caravacci, 
Stan Brochstein, and David Yens 
(alternate). The trophy, which is 
in our possession for one year, 
will probably be displayed in the 
Donner Hall trophy case very 
soon.
FOR COMPLETE 
and GIFT SELECTIONS 
• Try Us First •
OAKLAND HARDWARE
HARDWARE, PAINT.
3606 Forbes St. MA 1-0923
ELECTRONIC ENGINEERS 
PHYSICISTS
At Bendix Radio you will be 
AHEAD when TOMORROW comes!
