3The Cartiere ^Tartan
Vol. 35 No. 2CARNEGIE INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY, PITTSBURGH, PA.TUESDAY, SEPTEMBER 23, 1941
Vol.3 V5NN 25lCoA5N RoNN EGIC 
Ro3S TUO.FCHLIY5C,I P5CO
Carnegie Tech’s first Fall Car­
nival will arrive October 3 and 4 
for two big days of fun and frolic. 
The committee in charge, led by 
Mike Bosak, ’42, is planning a pro­
gram of entertainment for the 
moderate admission charge of $2.00.
The Will Hudson-Eddie DeLange 
orchestra will open festivities Fri­
day night, October 3, by furnish­
ing music for a school-wide in- 
¦formal dance in the Men’s Gymna­
sium. Gay decorations will form a 
festive background for what prom­
ises to be one of the most success­
ful of recent Tech dances.
Variety Show
Marvin Einhorn-, Drama ’42, is 
planning a gala variety show for 
Saturday afternoon; He plans to 
combine the very best of past 
Scotch arid Soda skits into a two- 
hour show, packed with fun and 
talent all the way through. Re­
member “The Psycho-analyst’s Last 
Case” from “One on the House?” 
Remember the superb dancing of 
Roily Kraus and Audrey Botkin in 
“Here’s to You?” These and many 
other popular acts, all in the best 
Scotch and Soda tradition, will be 
included in the program.
Street dancing between the Hut 
and the Fine Arts Building will 
•follow the show. Jack Satterfield, 
’43, and his committee have been 
putting their heads together to plan 
decorations for' the Friday night 
dance. Gay autumn colors will 
put everyone in the mood for an 
evening of delightful dancing.
A New Idea
Fall Carnival is an utterly new 
and different idea for Carnegie 
Tech. Carnegie students now have 
a chance to start the year’s social 
calendar with a bang and freshmen 
get the opportunity to meet the up­
perclassmen at a really big school 
dance. The Carnival comes at a 
time when studies have not yet 
snowed everyone under, and yet 
allows a few weeks for everyone 
to get a smooth date.
Because the Fall Festival is a 
new idea, many students do not 
know all the details of the arrange- 
ments that have been made. As a 
result, many erroneous rumors are 
finding widespread circulation on 
, the campus. Many students have 
the false conception that the Fall 
Carnival is to take the place of the 
Spring Carnival. Fall Carnival will 
be held in addition to, and not in­
stead of, the time-honored Spring 
Carnival, which will be held next
Coming Dance 
Initiates Year’s 
Social Calendar
The first major social event of 
the year is the Welcome Freshman 
.Dance to which all of the freshmen 
are invited. All Frosh, as well as 
the Upperclassmen, are urged to at­
tend for, as the name implies, the 
dance is to aid the class of ’45 to 
get into the social swing at Tech.
The dance will be held on Sat­
urday night, September 27, in This­
tle Hall from 9:00 till 12:00. The 
music will most ably be supplied 
by Len Malvern and his orchestra. 
Although Len’s band is only a local 
one, it has established quite a rep­
utation for itself at numerous Car­
negie and fraternity dances and al­
ways is a big drawing card. Another 
major attraction at the dance will 
be the giving of favors to the first 
hundred girls who attend. This is 
a new innovation at the day school 
dances, but has been found to be 
very successful at the numerous 
night school affairs.
The Welcome Freshman dance 
has come to be regarded as a tradi­
tion here at Tech, heading the list 
of social activities for several years 
past, and has always been enthu­
siastically attended by the incoming 
Frosh. The dance is sponsored by 
the Dragon Society with the back­
ing of Student Council. In charge 
of all of the arrangements is Charles 
Richardson, Chairman of the Drag­
on Society. He Will deliver an ad­
dress to the. freshmen during inter­
mission in which he will extend the 
welcome of the school to the plebes.
The dance will for the first time 
at a major social function employ 
the expedient of announcing the 
coming social affairs during the in­
termission. This is being done so 
as to directly reach those students 
who are most prone to attend the 
social affairs in. order to inform 
them of future functions.
AXA Sponsors Tea
Alpha Chi Alpha, women’s na­
tional journalistic honorary, is 
sponsoring a tea this afternoon ior 
freshmen ' women interested in 
journalism to be held from 4:30 to 
6:00 o’clock in the Carnegie Union.
May as usual. Student Council 
sponsors both occasions through its 
Spring Carnival chairman, Mike 
Bosak.
Classes will be held as usual on 
Friday and Saturday. Tickets may 
be obtained from members of the 
Dragon Society, men’s senior class 
honorary. The Dragons have been 
selected for this assignment be­
cause they are the logical organ­
ization to contact the student body 
as a whole.
Staff Changes 
Made At Tech
Changes in faculty personnel for 
the school term just beginning find 
a number of appointments and 
resignations affecting almost every 
department, of the school.
In the Department of Economics, 
Dr. C. C. Bayard and Dr. L. A. 
Shattuck were named to assistant 
( professorships. Dr. Bayard, a grad­
uate of Harvard University, has 
been a lecturer- at the College of 
the City of New York and econom­
ist for Clarke, Sinsabaugh Com­
pany, investment counsellors, New 
York. Dr. Shattuck Who has been 
one the faculty of Dartmouth Col­
lege received his Ph. D. from the 
John Plopkins University.
Graduates Honored
The third assistant professor to 
be named was Dr. Karl Fetters, 
E’31, who will teach in the De­
partment of Metallurgical Engineer­
ing. Dr. Fetters formerly was a 
metallurgist for the Youngstown 
Sheet and Tube Company. In the 
same Department Malcom Hawkes, 
who received his M. S. degree at 
Tech in 1940, has been named an 
instructor.
Other Tech graduates who have 
been appointed to teaching posi­
tions include Richard T. Clement, 
’41, highest honor,graduate in the 
College of Engineering, who will 
teach mechanics; A. E. Johnston, ’39, 
in the Department of Engineering 
Drawing and Description geometry; 
Louis Sacks, instructor during the 
1939-40 year, resumes his position 
with the Department of Mathemtics; 
and J. N. Shear who received the 
Master of Architecture from Car­
negie Tech and the Master of • Fine 
Arts from Princeton will teach in 
the Department of Architecture.
Other graduate students who 
were named to the faculty this year 
are K. E. Keyes, M. S., ’39, instruc­
tor in physics and M. O. Peach, 
former night student instructor in 
mechanics.
Additional Appointees
Other appointments include: J. 
N. Campbell, graduate student at 
Columbia, William P. Holden, and 
Edward Fiess, instructors in Eng­
lish ;H. J. Henry and E. C. Lawson, 
instructors in mechanical engineer- 
in; M. O. Schmidt, foi*mer Assistant 
Plighway Engineer, Wisconsin State 
Highway Commission, instructor in 
civil engineering; A. G. Strand- 
hagen, instructor in mechanics; Dr. 
H. G. Schrickel, University of Cin­
cinnati, instructor in psychology and 
education; Elizabeth Cober, former­
ly Technician in Bacteriology at 
the West Penn Hospital, instructor 
in Biology*; James F. Reed, from 
the University of Pittsburgh, in­
structor in History; Rr. Robert C. 
Jones, instructor in chemistry; 
Charles O. Junge, member of the 
staff, Coal Research Laboratory; 
Dr. Joseph A. Rauterkus, previously 
an instructor at Seton Hill Colege, 
Vol.3l5N2 ol CARN E
Delta Skulls Give 
Annual Tea Dance
This Thursday from 4:00 till 6:00 
the Delta Skull society will hold its 
annual Fall Tea Dance. The dance 
is to be held in Thistle Hall, and, 
as is the case with all tea dances, 
will cost only 25 cents per person.
Rather than have an orchestra it 
has been decided to have a “juke 
box” furnish the music, for the na­
tion’s best arrangements and top- 
notch orchestras can be obtained in 
this way, and there will be none 
of those intermissions which can be 
so exasperating at a dance as shprt 
and hectic as a tea dance.
There will be refreshments avail­
able for all who wish them. Owing 
to the fact that many of the Ad­
vanced Corps R. O. T. C. students 
have' drill till 5:30, special-consid­
eration will be made for them. To 
all you frosh and upperclassmen 
here is a chance to get a lovely las­
sie to escort to the welcome Fresh­
man dance, and also to have a 
grand time in meeting that, beau­
tiful coed, or handsome young man, 
you overlooked at the first tea 
dance.
Dear Mamma
Frals, Girls, Classes 
Bewilder Freshman
By Ed Goldstein
Dear Momma:
Actually I’m all settled now (it 
says here), but gosh, I sure am in a 
whirl! Right after you left me, 
hundreds of fellows with those 
funny Greek letters on their caps 
came up to my room. I just can’t 
understand what they are taliving 
about. All you have to do is ask 
them something, and they jump to 
do it for you. It seems that they be­
long to a thing called a “fraternity,” 
and they go around always helping 
and doing things for freshmen.
Every time I turned my back, 
they would go to my room and, be­
fore I knew it, they had moved me 
over to their house three times! 
I went over there and met millions 
of people. It got so bad after a 
while that I didn’t even know my 
own name!
I went into a big cafeteria here, 
and it was two hours before I found 
out where to buy my glass of milk. 
Mother dear, I have a confession 
to make. Prepare yourself for a 
big shock, because I might as well 
tell you before you hear it from 
someone else. This morning, when 
no one was looking, I bought my­
self a great big cup of coffee and 
then drank it! It didn’t affect me 
in the least little bit, and I walk­
ed home under perfect control. I 
suppose you’ll just have to get used 
to the idea of my going around 
drinking -coffee—but after all,I am 
eighteen!
But Mother, tell me, how old do 
I have to be before I can start talk­
ing to girls? I met the nicest lit­
tle job here today . . . goodness, 
that's how I’m beginning to talk 
after being around those frat men. 
But jeepers, Mom, I wish that you 
would let me be a real college man 
soon.
My schedule is very nice, with 
only six 8:30 and five 4:30 classes. 
You can be sure that I will come 
right back to my room after sup­
per every night and study my five 
hours'.
Goodness, it’s already 9:15, so, I 
must turn off my light and g’et' n'iy 
12 hours of sleep.
Your loving son,
ALGERNON.
Vaughn Monroe and Orchestra 
Features Carnegie Tech Night'b
Former Mu«ic 
Student Leads 
Topflight Baud
Vaughn Monroe, whose great 
young band is playing at the Stan­
ley this week, is one of the few top- 
notch band leaders who claim Car­
negie Tech as their alma mater. __
¦ . Monroe attended classes in the 
Art School where he was enrolled 
in the Department of Music, 'but 
had to leave at the end of two years 
due to financial reasons. As Vaughn 
explains it, “The depression was 
pretty tough in ’32, and although I 
hated to leave Tech, I figured that 
getting something to eat was more 
important than getting an edu­
cation.”
Remembers Tech
Built on the order of Nelson Ed­
dy, Monroe is a very personable 
fellow and has a fine masculine 
singing voice that certainly endears 
him to the women. However, he is 
very happily married, although the 
life of a band leader certainly isn’t 
the easiest in the world.
Vaughn says that he remembers 
J. Vick O’Brien very well and also 
Miss Seaman of the Music Depart­
ment. He also remembers the fact 
that when he was a Plebe, the up­
perclassmen would make him put 
his arms around one of the statues 
adorning the halls of the Arts 
Building, and force him sing one 
of the more classical love songs to 
the scantily clad goddess. Vaughn 
claims that it now stands him in 
good stead for his vocalizing with 
his orchestra and besides that it's 
a lot easier than doing one ni^ht 
stands.
Played At Tea Dances
While at Tech, Vaughn was a 
member of the now defunct Gon­
doliers Club, which used to put on 
Gilbert and Sullivan operettas down 
at the Music Hall. He also played 
at many tea dances with Will Ro­
land’s Band. Will who was also a 
Music student is now manager for 
Benny Goodman, so that makes the 
two, friendly competitors.
Vol.3l5N2 ol CARN G
B53SIloCI 2FlCINN D5M. 1o.o3 
9F 9I4S Ll5a5 LIG5l3aIC3
By Marianna Hogg
I went to see Katherine Cornell 
on Saturday. We talked, just the 
two of us, in the star’s dressing 
room at the Nixon theater. This 
happened because my aunt went to 
school with her and had always 
wished that I could know her. It 
was one of the most thrilling things 
that has ever happened to me.
She was taller, thinner, and love­
lier than I had expected, and she 
really looked very young—which 
she can’t be because she has been 
married for twenty years to Guth­
rie McClintick, her manager and 
director. What impressed me most 
was that her beauty lay in her 
naturalness—she used little make­
up unlike the popular conception 
of most actresses. She wore her 
hair simply and rather youthful­
ly—exactly as in the play. Her 
clothes were rather tailored in con­
trast to the very feminine old fash­
ioned gowns which she wore on the 
stage. Her unaffected manner made 
me feel as if I were being very
graciously received in her home
Fraternity Pledges .
By the end of Freshman Week, 
Tuesday, September 16, 120 men 
had pledged fraternities. More 
pledges are expected to swell this 
number, which is unusually large 
in view of the 'decreased enroll­
ment. The Interfraternity Coun­
cil’s publication, “Fraternally 
Yours,” which was sent to each 
freshmen was given credit for the 
increase.
The following is the list of men 
pledged this year by the Carnegie 
Tech fraternities:
Alpha Tan Omega 
Carl Arnold Robert P. Lewis 1
E. Hoffman Bruce Taylor
Allyn Johannessen Earl Wallace 
Wayen Johnson Robt. Whiteside
Webster Jones Stuart Williams
John Lorenz Paul Wines
Richard Goldsborough 
Delta Tau Delta 
Warren Arnett Arthur Markaus 
Robert Barefoot Donald Mash
Edward Meho 
Gil Myers 
Cy Sillings 
Robert Smith 
Rudy Thompson 
Jack White
James Ellsworth 
David Galasso 
Millard Gordon 
Albert Kotsch
Ralph Martin 
Joseph Phelps 
John Reese 
Arthur Uber
Richard Hotchkiss 
Beta Sigma Rho
Sidney Berkowitz Howard Gartner 
Aubrey Caplan
Morton Cohn 
Joseph Dolin 
Alex Eisner 
Donald Foreman 
Leo Fyer
Bert Goldman 
Robert M. Lewis 
Geotge Mark 
Ernest Sherry 
Stanley Shiller 
W. Speigelman
Beta Theta Pi
Herbert Asten George McLeod 
Eugene Barfoot Paul Sprov/els
Walter Benter M. Tassler
Robert Debubil 
Ted Drabers 
Howe Fredricks 
Clyde Hickle 
George Jackson 
George Karlitsky 
Larry Montgomery Robert - Wilson 
William Koenig David Kulp 
Delta Upsilon 
Joseph Connell Roy Lansbery 
Theodore Daniels Frank Maskiell 
Arthur Hattman Richard Neagle 
Warren Keane David Starr
Kappa Sigma 
William Beamer Stuart Lee 
Joseph Clark 
Riehard DeMusey 
Charles Eisel 
Robert Herrod 
Räy Hutchins 
Richard Koi*b
Robert Li Li e 
Gail Litton 
Edward Pappert 
Earl Stanley 
Dpnald ^Voss 
Robt. Whitehead
VAUGIIN MONROE
instead of backstage. Her friendli­
ness and charm put me at ease at 
once. I found that if I was not 
careful, she would be asking me 
questions, whereas I was the one 
one who was supposed to do the in­
terrogating. She held a very small, 
black daschund (which before the 
interview I had fortunately just 
missed stepping on) in her lap and 
seemed very fond of him.
She asked me where I went to 
school and then said, “I was on 
your campus yesterday. I wanted 
to make it a point to see the Drama 
Department there for I think it is 
a wonderful place.” She also 
showed interest in other depart­
ments of Tech, and stated that she 
thought it was good for a girl, like 
those in Margaret Morrison, to be 
getting some practical knowledge, 
which, even though it may not be 
too interesting, could be fallen back 
upon.
Going back-stage was an experi­
ence in itself. Seeing the walls 
covered with autographed pictures 
Vol.3l5N2 ol CARN G
Enrollment Falls 
This Semester
Up to 4:00 P. M.' last Wednesday, 
2,174 students had enrolled in Car­
negie courses. Of these, 1,250 were 
in Engineering, 42(1 in Fine Arts, 
477 in M. M. C. C. and 21 in Li­
brary. This is somewhat less than 
last year’s totals, possibly due to 
the National Defense program and 
the numerous jobs available, Last 
year there was a total of 2,327 stu­
dents. Freshmen this year num­
bered (105, In comparison to last 
year’s crop of 046. All In all, 153 
fewer students registered this year 
than last.
More than one third of this crop 
was in M. M. C. C., which has 54 
fewer registrants. Half of this cut 
alone was in the freshman class, 
as was also the case in the College 
of.: Engineering. The. freshman, en- 
rollees in Fine Arts, however, were 
greater in number than last year.
As far as actual figures go., En­
gineering College suffered least and 
M. M. C. C. sustained the greatest 
cut. By percentage, the Carnegie 
Library school lost very nearly 
half of its last year’s enrollment, 
the figures being 39 last year and 
21 this year,
Memoranda . . .
Sept. 23—Alpha Chi Alpha—Tea
For Freshmen......................Union
Sept. 24—C. W. C. A.—Tea For
Freshmen..............................Union
Sept. 25 — Delta Skull — Tea
Dance..........................Thistle Hall
Sept. 26 — Upperclass Petitions
Due ........................................Union
Sept. 27 — Afternoon — Carnegie 
Tech vs. Westminster. .Pittsburgh 
Sept. 27 —Evening — Welcome
Freshman Dance........Thistle Hall
Sept. 28—Avukah Tea...........Union
Sept. 30—Traditions Exam. .MMCC 
Oct. 1—C. W. C. A. Dinner Meet­
ing ..........................................Union
Oct. 2—'Scimitar Tea ..................
Dance..........................Thistle Hall
Oct. 3—Fall Carnival..............Gym
Oct. 4—Newman Club Dance..........
Oct. 4 — Fall Carnival — After­
noon ............................Music Hall
Oct. 4 — Fall Carnival — Even­
ing ......................................Campus
Wm. J. Campbell Wm. E. Purtell 
Robt. A. DeBortoli Geo. J. Saluaggio 
Elmer R. D’Orazio Francis Sarosdy
Otto C. Magel 
Robt. W. Merritt 
D. Beck 
G. Cavender
A. Heuser
B. Hill 
R. Lang 
L. Lavie
C. Melton
James Brown 
Peter Cregut 
Vernon Evans 
Dan Jan Janin 
Edward Johnson
Louis J. Schmidt 
Richard Winkler 
R. Neidrauer 
R. Rendlemen 
J. Sherwood 
H. Smith 
L. Valentour 
W. Warfel 
R. Wool len weber 
D. Yochum 
Sigma Nil
D..,^celdowney 
Ed. McGinness 
Frank Stevens 
Paul Swisher 
D. Van Voorhces
Tau Delta Phi
Hubert Aaronson Edgar Rosenberg
Leonard Cohen 
Chester Feen berg 
Paul Isenberg 
Leon Levy
Jack Savitsky 
Robert Shiller 
Adolph Slone 
Al Steenman
Ed Sumers 
Theta Xi
Pi Kappa Alpha
Robert J. Beck Joseph Pribulsky
Bert Basset 
Edward Denne 
Jack Dreier 
Douglas Fields 
George Fish
Bob Gehron 
Edward Rudisill 
William Sims 
Clifford Taylor 
Hamilton Taylor
Rhodes Trautman.
b
Stanley StageJ O
Show Dedicated 
To Carnegie Tech
On Thursday night Carnegie 
Tech will be honored on the stage 
of a Pittsburgh theater. The man­
agement of the Stanley theater has 
graciously set aside Thursday night 
as Carnegie Tech night. Vaughn 
Monroe, former student in the Tech 
Music school (see Col. 4 this page), 
will dedicate his stage show to his 
alma mater.
The dedication will consist of a 
special program interspersed be­
tween the acts of the stage show. 
In addition several acts from Car­
negie Tech will be staged. Dr. J. 
Vick O’Brien, head of the Depart­
ment of Music, will present a scroll 
of welcome to his former student 
and Tech symphony member. The 
student orchestra will contribute 
two numbers to the show. Paul 
Wines, All-American Drum-major 
of the Kiltie Band, will be there 
and perhaps we can get a prevue 
of Paul’s innovations for the com­
ing football season. To top the 
program, the eight bagpipers of the 
Kiltie Band will be up on the stage 
screeching away as only bagpipers 
can screech.
Vaughn and his band will open 
the program with the Carnegie 
Tech light song and will also play 
a medley of Tech songs. >Sl Stein­
häuser, radio editor of the Pitts­
burgh Press, will do the Introduc­
tions and keep the program moving 
along.
The show is schdedulcd to go on 
at about 9:30 P. M. and should be 
of Interest to all Techites. If you're 
a jive fan or prefer smooth fox 
trots, Monroe’s boys will satisfy 
your cravings, and if you like nov­
elty numbers, Vaughn’s "Sammy, 
You Made the Pants Too Long” is 
the best in the businoss. Beautiful 
Anita Louise is also on the pro­
gram, and that smile of her;; if.' 
enough to make anyone forget 
about the rigors of school life.
Also on the stage are Joe and 
Jane McKenna who do a hilarious 
novelty skit, and Trixie, an attrac­
tive and accomplished juggler.
On tiie screen is "Father Takes 
a Wife,” starring Adolphe Menjou 
and the return of Gloria Swanson 
to the movies. The picture is above 
the average in the comedy busi­
ness, and Mr. Menjou is in rare 
form in the role of an elderly 
man who still has an eye for the 
women.
VI SI VI TI Uo OFNN. 
Freshmen T. UNA
The members of the advisory 
board and the cabinet of C. W. C. A. 
will hold their annual tea for all big 
and little sisters tomorrow from 
3:30 to 5:30 o’clock P. M. in the 
Union. Mrs. Doherty, Mrs. Yon, 
and Mrs. Lang, as well as President 
Peggy Stuchell, ’42, and Vice- 
president, Tistie Weaver, ’43, will be 
there to welcome and become per­
sonally acquainted with each girl.
But, since it is the purpose of the 
C. W. C. A. Tea to give upper and 
lower classmen the chance to be­
come friends, there will, be many 
other people—approximately four 
hundred Peggy Stuchell expects— 
It is an opportunity for all 
those who struggled through the 
mysteries of registration together to 
relax and enjoy themselves., Even 
though some freshmen, for some 
reason or other, haven't a big sis­
ter, they too, are .expected to at­
tend.
Student Employment
Any Carnegie student who wishes 
part time work may apply to the 
Department of Financial Aid for 
Students which is now located on 
the second floor of the Industries 
Building in rooms 246 A and B. 
Students are also urged to report 
here if they feel the need for fi­
nancial aid of any kind including 
loans, scholarships, and N. Y. A. 
work.
Jobs are waiting for qualified 
workers; so apply immediately.
Notice of summer earnings must 
¦be reported to Department of Fi­
nancial Aid to Students in room 
246 Industries at once.
Thistle Meeting Friday
All persons who wish to work 
on the Thistle should report to 
the council room in the Carnegie 
Union at 4:30 P. M. on Friday 
afternoon, Sept. 26. There are po­
sitions open for Freshmen, Sopho­
mores, and Juniors. Ail those who 
wish to participate in the yearbook 
publication are urged to attend.

---------------------------------------------------

2THE CARNEGIE TARTANTUESDAY, SEPTEMBER 23, 1941
Student Health Presents 
Problem To Administration
HL YI ,I
This semester is only a week old; we are again hearing com­
plaints about the lack o£ adequate health facilities. Bach mumble 
and grumble hus that, familiar ring: “The doctor isn’t around when 
you want to see him,” 01: course, a number oil students have, in the 
past, been irritated by the quality of medical attention and the cost 
of extra treatment, but by and large, the single largest protest is the 
aforementioned “Where's the doctor?”
Last year feeling ran high among the students due to the tem­
porary- setup iri the medical department. This year an early inquiry 
points again to a continuation of: the same sentiments. We have 
carried on a littlCI private investigation into this matter. It is our 
hope that we can analyze this situation in such a manner as to, (1) 
present views of fill parties concerned and (2) offer some comments 
and suggestions for the betterment of an admittedly bad situation.
When a student visits the doctor’s office, he goes with the ex­
pectation of seeing the doctor as soon as possible. When that “soon 
as possible” resolves itself into a matter of an hour or two, the stu­
dent becomes impatient at the very least. More precisely, he be­
comes quite vexed. Often times he leaves, returning once or twice to 
find that the doctor is late. His patience is at an end and if the need 
for medical attention is not immediately imperative, he walks out, 
leaving nature take its course. After one or two such experiences 
liis sentiments are decidedly against the school and the health depart­
ment, often specifically against the doctor. The student feels tliat 
he is not getting just returns from the money which he pays for the 
health fee. Discontent and disillusionment arise.
Who is at fault? . . . In the present situation the administration 
must accept the responsibility for its share of the blame. There 
has existed, since the death of Dr. Marks, a dire need for a full-time 
resident physician. Up to the present time this position has not been 
filled. To be sure, the administration has provided men who devoted 
a part of their time to the school, but experience has shown that pri­
vate practice takes precedence over student aid under such condi­
tions. This year Dr. Sipple will be in charge of the health depart­
ment, but he will still have some private practice. His appointment 
is for one year. We hope that a definite schedule of hours can be 
arranged to satisfy the requirements of the students; however, until 
a full-time physician is secured, the problem of student health 
facilities will still exist.
It is quite true that the school has made several attempts to 
secure a competent full-time man. Unfortunately none has succeed­
ed. It seems that the urgent need for doctors in the armed forces of 
our country has placed so great a premium on doctors that our 
educational system must, continue along with the facilities at hand. 
Doctors receive much more compensation from, private practice 
than from the school position consequently, they are unlikely to 
abandon their private practice for the security of a school position.
An attempt has been made to bring an assistant of a health, 
bureau of one ol! the large universities here as head of the medical 
department. To date, this effort has failed.
We have presented a rough picture ol! the medical situation as 
it exists today. Limitation of spaee and the need for a more thor­
ough investigation makes it imperative that we continue with this 
subject next week. At that time we will present some suggestions 
which we hope may better the present setup.
Union Needs Center Walk
HL YI M.
Each year the school authorities undertake a program of im­
provement and renovation of various sehool buildings and proper­
ties. In the past the program has dealt with the campus proper. 
Little thought has been given to the Student Union, also known as 
the Alumni ]louse.
Because many of the student organizations find publications are 
housed in the Union and because the Union has the facilities for 
meetings and social events, it lias become a much visited placo. Many 
people have bitterly complained about the necessity of walking 
around the semi-circular driveway in order to reach the entrance ol! 
I,lie building. Those taking the short cut past the Tech Bowl find it 
very disconcerting to circle around to reach the doorway. Everyone 
dislikes immensely the pebbles that get into his shoes as he walks up 
the gravel driveway. JOaeh visitor would much rather walk up the 
grass directly in front of the doorway, but refains from doing this 
because of his consideration for the lawn.
We believe that this disturbing, yet humorous, situation can be 
cleared up before winter weather sets in. We suggest that arrange­
ments be made now to build a new approach to the Union. Concrete 
steps should be installed directly in front of the doorway, beginning 
at the base of the grassed slope on Forbes Street and extending up 
to the present entrance.
There is little doubt in our mind that this nuisance should be 
eliminated as soon as possible, preferably within the next month and 
si half. Students and faculty members alike will appreciate the 
change.
New Library Needed
HL PI BI DI
Not long ago we looked over the files of the TARTAN from 1926. 
There were, of course, many changes in the paper. Some of the 
changes were improvements and some were not, but the one item 
was an editorial concerning the‘library facilities at Carnegie Tech. 
We call this item timeless because the conditions which prevailed
MC3l3ol1 N9CFN11N2 3l .4N CARN1 oa .4N UTrUTn AFN .4o1N oa .4N eNeg
HNF1 oa .4N 1.Aaai 3l .4N cA1N oa .4N N23.oF3Ah coh5el .4NL AFN .4o1N oa .4N 
’23.oFI U4NL AFN lo. .o HN col1.F5N2 A1 lNcN11AF3hL .4N oC3l3ol1 oa N3.4NF 
.4N 1.52Nl. Ho2L oF .4N aAc3h3.LIdTaruetJie 3Tartan
Carnegie Institute of Technology, Schenley rark, Pittsburgh. Pa.
PHONE MAYFLOWER 2000 PPIIONE SCHENLEY 4557
ItePHCOBNTlIO KOH NATIONAL ADVURTIIJINQ BY . ... ,X1 . . j ... c . ¥ After Office Hours CallNational AdycrtisingSery.ee, inc. E,1Uor.ln.chlct ........ schenl a079Cdllcge Publishers Representative „ . , „ono«o AV«. Niw Vol.3 53 v. Business M.umfrer . .. . HAzcl 3898
¦ IIO..O. • to. ....... . rMnci.co Advertising Manager. .SChenley 9i)3.f
Entered us N2ooCAREoRCGI5 matter in the Pittsburgh Post Office under the Act ofMarch 8, 1H71I.
I'ubllHbed weekly during school year, except holidays and examination periods.Subscription Price SI.00 per year.
’23.oFs3lsV43Na .................................................................................... YA5h ,o1N1
P513lN11 ,AlARNF.....................................................................fAFFL THFAeot3.­
,AlAR3lR ’23.oF.......................................................................BoAllN U314hAFhc4
nNv1 ’23.oF.....................................................................................PAFHAFA DFAeNF
T1131.Al. ,AlAR3lR ’23.oFIIw...................................................Gilbert D3tNl1ol
VoCL ’23.oF.........................................................................,NFcN2N1 V5ll3lR4Ae
VoCL ’23.oF...................................................................................b4Lhh31 P5c4eAl
YCoF.1 ’23.oF...........................................................................................Joe U4oeA1
T2tNF.313lR ,AlARNF...............................................................YLhtAl ro1Nl a3Nh2
V3Fc5hA.3ol ,AlARNF.....................................................................Y32lNL ONHNhov
Y.Aaa TF.31.............................................................................................’hh3o.. UvNFL
YCoF.1 b4o.oRFAC4NF........................................................................V4AFhN1 dNlc3h
P513lN11 Y.Aaay uNN Tl2NhhAm UN2 n3NFNlHNFRm Y5llL kAl2cFeAlm VhNo
PA.NeAlI
B5l3oF ’23.oF1bA. ’heAlm kNolAF2 V4o.3lNFm roHNF. u39olm P3hh D3lRm
BNAllNI D3lRms.3aAF3Aa.lc3 foRRm SAh.NF fAhhNFm BAcp Y4oFNI
rNCoF.NF1ys ONFFL ’2Nh1olm P52UN3c4eAlm SAh.NF uAFHLm UI BI fAFeAlLm
ko531N YA5hm uol SA.p3l1m B3e ON31.I
in ]926 and called forth the demand for more adequate facilities 
still prevail today.
The necessity for a fine library at an educational institution 
seems self-evident. At school we are not taught anything more 
valuable, probably, than where to find information and knowledge. 
In a great many of our courses the only emphasis we'receive is upon 
the various writings and opinions that have been written on the sub­
ject we are studying. To learn where these opinions may be found, 
it i$ important that we have the books on hand. This method of 
study would seem to predicate a large, adequately-stocked library. 
But we do not have such a library on the Tech campus.
Not only is our library deficient in the scope of its collection but 
the building itself is poorly constructed for the purpose to which it 
is put. Fine buildings are certainly not necessary to the success of 
an educational institution. But conditions which are favorable to 
studying certainly are an important part of a school. The Hut, al­
though the services that are offered by its librarians are excellent, 
is a rather difficult place in which to concentrate. Every footstep 
sounds like a thousand footsteps, every slight whisper carries to all 
parts of the building. If the library were both better constructed 
against noises and disturbance and were more comfortable, we 
should find that studying could become a more important part of 
our school-lives.
Our opinion that a good library is necessary for a college is 
shared by many more eminent men. One educator, when asked 
lxVw he would go about building up an excellent university, replied 
that he would first set up comfortable, 'well-stocked libraries and 
study-halls, and would then have classrooms and instructors, if he 
had enough money left. Although we do not advocate such a pro­
cedure at Tech, we certainly should like to have a combination of 
good professors, which we have, and good studying facilities, which 
we do not have. If this should happen, we would be deprived of an 
endless topic of editorials, but this sacrifice is worthy under the cir­
cumstances.
National Affiliation 
For Teeh Sororities?
HL BI MI UI
The subject of national sororities has long been an issue on the 
Tech campus and has in the past been a moot question. Now that 
permission has been granted by the administration to join the na­
tionals, our eight local sororities find that the “grass is always 
greener on the other side of the fence.” There is no doubt that the 
locals have functioned efficiently here. They have given their mem­
bers the chance to become better acquainted with each other and 
form lasting friendship, the primary purpose of a sorority. Why 
then is a national sorority desirable? Its main selling point is its 
prestige value, including the fact that a chapter can be formed in 
every city and every well-known college.
National sororities, at least on the Teeli campus, would be very 
advantageous to dorm girls. Since they have to pay room and board 
anyway, why not have them pay it to a national, in this way killing 
two birds with one stone ? Those dorm girls who now belong to any 
one of the local sororities on campus are paying a fee to this local 
as well as their dormitory boar dand room but are not ejoying the 
advantages of living in a sorority house. Whereas, if they were able 
to join a national and live in a sorority house, this would be over­
come.
To belong to a national means more than to belong to one of 
our locals and yet in spirit, purpose, and advantages the national 
can supply nothing more to a member.
The main disadvantages of a national are its nominal fees and 
intolerant discrimination against individuals. The former explains 
itself. It is well known that Tech is not a rich campus and to place 
an extra burden on a student’s purse might mean the death of such 
a chapter and would lead to strict exclusiveness. A member would 
not be judged by her personality, but mainly by her father’s in­
come. The latter point, intolerant discrimination, would create 
more hard feeling in that those girls without a “Plymouth llock” 
background would have to be exempt from a sorority. In a world 
such as ours, tolerance should be the goal. A happy solution to 
this problem might be the creation of dorm houses for our own 
locals, which could then boast of everything but the name of a na­
tional.
Well, girls, we leave it up to you!
The A. rroiv Shirt 
With the Dual 
Personcilitir
t\
% lArrow Doubler—a buttoned-up
riariilar shirt one minute and anS TU\opfen-necked sport shirt the next.
Tli'jj, Urick is in the ingenious eon- 
collar that is worn equally 
ej||^pii or without a tie.
Doubler comes in all sizes, made of ox­
ford, voile, or twill flannel in white and
solid colors. Double your wardrobe 
with Doubler today!
ARROWSHIRTS
TrrMS f’Tu$0TrU’rY
GREEN BROTHERS
FCI Fr 3SI nFM.
V45cp r3c4AF21ol
Blond wavy hair, blue eyes, five 
feet-ten inches of hustle and bustle, 
topped off by a most engaging smile, 
characterize Chuck Richardson, 
whose chief call to fame is the 
Presidency of Student Council—the 
most important campus position 
open to an undergraduate. Elected 
late last spring, Chuck has already 
demonstrated his capabilities for 
the office. His main desire while in 
office is to find a practical, success­
ful plan for stimulating school spir­
it, which he feels is decidely below 
par. Along with this, he hopes to 
complete the elimination of all fac­
tional feeling among the various 
campus groups.
A little over a year, ago, Chuck 
was offered an appointment to the 
U. S. Naval Academy at Annapolis, 
but since he had already spent two 
years at Tech, and felt that there 
was more opportunity for him in 
his chosen vocation, printing, he re- 
fused the honor.
Important as his office in Stu­
dent Council is, there is something 
nearer to his heart—a very attrac­
tive, vivacious, golden haired las­
sie known as Angie Cleaves. In 
fact, it might be said that Chuck 
is majoring in Angie and talcing 
Printing as a minor. Both he and 
Angie are Seniors, Chuck in the 
Department of Printing, and Angie 
in .Secretarial Science. If possible, 
they expect to be married shortly 
after graduation.
In -addition to these two major 
extracurricular activities, Chuck 
has found time to take part in 
numerous other activities. Chief of 
these is Beta Theta Pi, social fra­
ternity, of which he was secretary 
during the past year. He was a 
member of the Thistle Staff for 
three years, being Business Man­
ager in his junior year. His out­
standing work on the yearbook re­
sulted in his being elected to Pi 
Delta Epsilon, men’s journalistic 
¦honorary. He has also played a 
prominent part in the “Y” cabinet 
and Alpha Phi Omega, the national 
Scouting service fraternity.
As a result of these many activi­
ties, Chuck was elected to the 
Scimitar, Delta Skull, and Dragon
societies; in fact, he is now the: 
Chairman of the Dragons. Chuck 
was not at all reticent in the field 
of athletics. Outside of school his 
pet hobby is horesback-riding, since- 
he is quite an equestrian. He may 
frequently be seen on the bridle 
paths of Schenley park, usually in 
the company of Miss Angie.
For the past two summers Chuck 
has been gaining valuable experi­
ence in his profession by working, 
in various printing plants. Two 
summers ago he was-'employed as 
a control chemist in an ink mill,, 
and last summer held the same ca­
pacity in a paper mill. Eventually 
he hopes to work into his father’s 
printing business at Kansas City.
Pe
Rgie
PATRONIZETHE TECH BARBER
Only Five inutes From Campus
CRAIG AT FORBES
KEEP THE 
APPLE SHINY 
nMU 
YOUR PANTS
FORBES
CLEHNERS
nerCor Craig and Forbes
440 Wood StreetDowntown
MOSQUE c5M PII,NI 2FC4Il3.Nine
Evenings
Opera with Metropolitan 
Opera Cast
Maracci Dancers
OlC3 Salvatore Baccaioni
Feb. 27 Operatic Scenes in Costtime
Heifetz
Apï. io Nelson Eddy
FRIDAY, APRIL 24— Lily PonS
Coarse tickets for NINE EVENTS: $9.00, S9:50. S12.00, $15.50, $19.50, $24.00 (pin: 
tax) at May Beetle Offices, 551 Union Trust BIdp., and Mellor’s, 604 Wood St. 
Early reservations advised. ATIantic 3051 and AT. 3783
SPECIAL STUDENT RATES
$6.45, $7.50, S9.60, $10.70. To secure these rates secure identification card from 
your school and present at box office at Mellor’s Music Store, 604 Wood St.. be­
tween 0 and 5 daily (EXCEPT 11 to 11:30 lunch time).
Visiting Orchestras
Five Concerts, Syria Mosque
™.' 2i Philadelphia
Conductors: Ormandy, Koussevitzky, 
Dimitri Mitropoulus
Course Tickets for FIVE: $2.50, S3.00, 
$3.50, SI.00, $5.00, S7.00, S10, S14.50 
Auspices Pgh. Orchestra Association 
May Beetle, Manager AT. 3051
Town Hall Lectures
Six Evenings at Carnegie Hall
TUES. 
Oct. 21Clare Boothe
Nov. 12(To Be Announced)
TUES.University of Chicago
Dec. 2Round Table
Dec. aRaymond Clapper
TUES. 
Jan. INVincent Sheean
TUES. 
Jan. 20Quentin Reynolds
Up-to-thc-Minutc Subjects To Be
Announced
$3. S4, S5, SO.50, $7.50 (no tax) at 
Mellor’s and May Beegle Offices

---------------------------------------------------

TUESDAY, SEPTEMBER 23, 1941THE CARNEGIE TARTAN3
C. S. EDMÄN
PRINTER
6470 Monitor St. HA. 0193
Plebes Romp Safely
9I4S 25aGU. g. VlF.S T5AIC 
hCOIl YonIl5N iFGoo 2Faa5CO
Freshmen at Tech have been al­
lowed to exist in a rather undis­
turbed state, and the question has 
arisen as to whether a crop of un­
disciplined frosh won’t disgrace the 
old institute. In former years haz­
ing took a rather vicious form and 
was detrimental to the good health 
of the students.
Milder forms are practiced in 
the near past, such as banging the 
heads of the students against the 
wall, or paddling their rears un­
til their temperature went to fever 
pitch, were quaint scenes to watch 
around the campus and did no one 
any harm. Faintly reminiscent of 
the bygone days were the freshmen 
of the arts school galloping across 
the quadrangle last week. Stim­
ulated by the threatening sopho­
mores, these little lads performed 
a one-two jump step across the 
lawn that would have done credit 
to any art troupe. Their timing 
was perfect and the whole effect 
was that of a merry-go-round, with 
some going up as others were fall­
ing down.
Regulations are still the fad for 
incoming freshmen. They rushed 
to pick up the bargains in dinks, 
socks, and ties that were featured 
at those sales counters that blos­
som every September. The only 
really new things in the whole set­
up are the freshmen themselves, 
but they are just pawns in a nat­
ural evolutionary process.
Advantages given to this year’s 
freshman are immensely greater 
than those given to incoming classes 
of previous years. Not only is the 
danger of being slugged by an up­
perclassman removed, but a senior 
mentor is appointed to protect the 
first graders from any conflict. The 
only safeguards not set up are 
those that can protect plebes from 
the faculty.
The old order changes, but out 
of the ashes has come a new ag­
gressive spirit that is never daunt­
ed. When questioned on how they 
like the new scheme for freshmen, 
the usual faculty answer was the 
old army retort, “Regulations, you 
know.”
iFGSFaFlI. T5’I DNInI. 
Ro3No coOCo,S3 LU4soC,
What are you doing with
What reayotW udin Wget?...
W-¦
A better method is to send it home regularly by Rail­
way Express—and have it returned the same way.
Our service is fast, sure—and convenient. Economical 
rates include pick-up and delivery at no extra charge 
within our regular vehicle limits in all cities and prin­
cipal towns. Your choice of prepaid or collect charges.
Just as convenient too, for 'most any shipment: 
ge, gifts, cake or a pet elephant.
RAI i.W.VXPRESS
FHL5Y, R5Y3
NATION-WIDE RAIL-AIR SERVICE
“Sing, Plebes!” That cry, mingled 
with many others, rang across the 
campus last Tuesday night as the 
annual “Pajama Parade” of fresh­
men was formed and marched from 
one girls’ dorm to another for a 
drenching. To the sophomores, 
who were of course the perpetrators 
of this thing, it was all a lot of fun. 
The frosh had fun too, but it was 
rather disconcerting to be rude­
ly awakened and shoved into a 
snake dance.
With the hapless plebes singing 
Tech songs, the procession moved 
across the parking lot to the girls’ 
dorms. There they prayed to the 
girls for water, which they receiv­
ed copiously. Many camera fiends 
were on hand to retain the memora­
ble scene on Verichrome. The whole 
effect was that of a Mohammedan 
prayer meeting, with heads bobbing 
up and down as the victims called 
in a low throbbing chant, “Water, 
we want water.”
Manyof the types and designs of 
pajamas featured in the impromptu 
fashion show never saw the inside 
of an Esquire Magazine. Novel 
shades and checks and stripes
Dormitories Plan 
Cheering Section
Claymore Clan, men’s dormitory 
honorary, will continue its program 
of increasing school spirit by plan­
ning a special rooting section at the 
Tech-Westminster game.
A section of the stands has been 
reserved for both men’s and wom­
en’s dormitory residents, and sheets 
containing novel cheers will be dis­
tributed. It is hoped that the plan, 
carried out mainly by Charles 
Greening, !43, will have the sup­
port of all the students in the dor­
mitories.
Traditions Exam
Freshman girls in Margaret Mor­
rison will take their traditions ex­
amination next Tuesday, Septem­
ber 30, at 11:30 in Margaret Mor­
rison Assembly Room._____________
WELCOME...
CLASS OF 1945-
To the Freshmen of Carnegie we extend our 
warmest greetings and sincere wishes for a 
successful college career. As our contribution, 
we are endeavoring to make your stay at Car­
negie as pleasant as possible, primarily by 
solving your shopping problems.
The solution can be found in the advertising 
columns of the TARTAN every week. These 
advertisements are made possible by progres­
sive business men worthy of your patronage. 
And remember, let it be known that you are 
from Carnegie and that there are 7,000 other 
TARTAN readers.
Carnegie Tartan
strolled in the ranks and gave the 
campus a new kind of Aurora 
Borealis. Colors were splashed 
riotously, and the lurid pajamas 
were soon soaking.
This year’s parade was more suc­
cessful than last year’s in that the 
freshmen went the full rounds. Last 
year the sophomores bit off more 
than they could chew and attempt­
ed to take out more plebes than 
they could handle. The unusual 
feat of forcing the frosh to make 
the rounds of all of the dorms has 
the sophomores elated, and a bit 
contemptuous of the docile lads.
New men are receiving their full 
quota of the “Get to know the 
boys” treatment. A great deal of 
musical talent has been discovered 
by the “Senior Fence Committee" 
during their afternoon auditions. 
Freshmen living in the dorms have 
taken over their traditional jobs as 
telephone operators.
Of course the plebes and sophs 
are not the only ones to be congrat­
ulated on a successful evening. The 
little ladies who hung out of the 
windows and tossed the aqua at the 
unfortunates deserve some passing 
comment.
Staff Changes
Vol.3l5N2 aFoe CARN ; 
instructor in violin; and Helen Don­
aldson, librarian, Social Relations.
Resigning are P. H. Allemano, 
Instructor in Engineering Drawing 
and Descriptive Geometry; John 
Beatty, Head, Bureau of Placements 
and Bureau of Industrial Relations; 
Messers. Armstrong and Dilworth 
of the English Department; Prof. 
Krivobok and W. A. Johnson, Metal­
lurgy; Prof. C. E. Leberknight and 
F. A. Schwertz of the Physics De­
partment; G. I-I. Lee and J. A. 
Sauer, Instructor in Mechanics; 
Gerard Rohlich, Instructor in Civil 
Engineering; Professor Thorpe, 
Aeronautical Engineering; Mrs. 
Reppun, Instructor in Biology and 
Miss Ludebuehl, Instructor in Sec­
retarial Etudies.
The Economics Department loses' 
Professor McDiarmid, Mr. Trefts, 
and Mr. Azar. Resigning from the 
Coal Research Laboratory are Le 
Claire, R. Smith, T. Smith, and 
Miss Nagle.
Leaves of absences, for the pres­
ent school year have 'been grant­
ed to Professor Andrews, of the De 
parement of History, to pursue a 
special study sponsored by the So­
cial Science Research Council; Pro­
fessor I-Iobe, of the Department of 
Management Engineering, to be­
come an industrial engineer with 
Ordnance Department, U. S. Army; 
Dr. Kirner, of the Coal Research 
Laboratory, to serve as Technical 
Aide to the National Defense Re­
search Committee; and to H. G.
Landau, of the Coal Research Lab­
oratory, to serve as Associate
Statician General in the Office of
the Quartermaster General.
Leaves have also been granted to 
Mr. Larkin, Instructor in Shops, to 
serve as Supervisor of Shops for 
the National Youth Administration 
of Pa.; Professor McLeary, of
the Department of Architecture, to 
execute a mural decoration for the 
new War Department Building in 
Washington; and to Mr. Young, of 
the Physics Department, to do re­
search work in connection with the 
defense program in the Bureau of 
Ordnance, U. S. Navy.
MELLON 
NATIONAL BANK
Have fun-be friendly
Treat yourself and 
others to fresh-tasting 
Wrigley’s Spearmint Gum 
The Flavor Lasts
fI.I5l4S Y5n 
tI3. e­UoGaIC3
Most of the graduate chemist
Official Positions 
Given To Mrs. Yon, 
Mrs. B. Patterson
Mrs. Charles Yon has been per­
manently appointed assistant to the 
Dean of Students, Dr. Beryl E. War­
den. Her duties as hostess of the 
Carnegie Union will now be as­
sumed by Mrs. B. C. Patterson, who 
temporarily acted in that capacity 
last year.
Ever since she came to Carnegie 
in 1938, Mrs. Yon has been in the 
Union. She will continue to live 
in the Union, but Mrs. Patterson 
will be officially in charge of its du­
ties. A well kno\vn Pittsburgher, 
Mrs. Yon is active in the Tuesday 
Musical Club. She was a charter 
member of Mu Phi Epsilon, nation­
al honorary for women, and a grad­
uate of Wilson College.
Mrs. Patterson is well known by 
the dorm girls of Margaret Morri­
son. Coming to Cai’negie fourteen 
years ago, she has been, at one time 
or another, head of all the dormi­
tories. When Mrs. Yon took up her 
new position last year, Mrs. Patter­
son at the time was in charge of the 
graduate house.
That Mrs. Patterson thoroughly 
enjoys this type of work is appar­
ent to anyone who talks to her. Her 
most earnest desire is to have every 
student at Carnegie feel that the 
Union belongs to him. She con­
siders Tech her second home and 
wants everyone else to feel the 
same. She emphasizes the fact 
that each individual is free to en­
joy the facilities of the Union.
Improvements Made 
In liOTC Program
Tech’s R. O. T. C. program has 
undergone a numiber of important 
changes this year in that the Signal 
Corps and Engineering Corps have 
been organized as two separate 
units and advanced students have 
been given a groat deal more re­
sponsibility. The boys that drill on 
Wednesday are In the Signal Corps 
and those on Thursday represent 
the Engineers.
Seniors this year will assist the 
supervisors in drilling both Soph­
omores and Juniors and the Juniors 
will also take an active part In 
drilling students of the basic 
course. To give the basic .itu- 
donts a start toward commanding, 
a now Idea, the “mass command,” 
will be tried. At an officer's signal 
those who are drilling will give 
their own commands in unison, thus 
acquiring skill in timing and foot­
work.
Official Inspectors rated Tech’s 
R. O. T. C. as excellent on the basis 
of last spring's drilling, but all in­
dications point toward an even 
snappier corps this year.
students convened in 30G Engineer­
ing Hall last week, cutting up mole­
cules and outfitting their new lab­
oratory with them. The old room 
has now been completely renovat­
ed, and the new atmosphere has not 
as yet been contaminated with the 
foul capors that the chemist’s re­
torts give off. Originally destined 
for a freshman laboratory, 306 was 
inconveniently arranged for any 
intensive research. Valuable space 
is utilized with the new set-up, and 
facilities for more students are 
available.
Partitions of steel and glass sub­
divide the room into six cubicles, 
giving it a trim appearance. Drs. 
Seitz and Jones of the chemistry 
department have their new offices 
in adjoining sections at the front 
of the room. One of the rear com­
partments is a dark room in which 
a polarimeter and refractometer 
are going to be permanently set up. 
Previously when a member of the 
chemistry faculty wanted to use 
the polarimeter, he had to install 
the apparatus and then dismantle 
it when he was finished. A work­
shop is ibeing installed opposite the 
dark room and will contain sun­
dries such as saws, electric drills, 
and other mechanical tools.
The two largest rooms are for the 
graduate chemists. For the pres­
ent Mr. G. Schaffel and Mr. W. M. 
McMillan will share one room, and 
Mr. C. Toensing, and Mr. R. Ma- 
riella, the other. Accomodations 
are installed for more chemists, 
some of whom will move in later. 
Laboratory desks with protective 
transite covering have been erected, 
and all necessary equipment Is in 
place ready for use. Experiments 
that have been interrupted will now 
get underway in the now laboratory.
In Dr. Seitz's old office, research 
is going to be conducted in elec­
tro-motive in determinations and 
high temperature and specific heat 
research. These experiments will 
continue under Dr. Seitz’s super­
vision, and the new expansion pro­
gram will overcome handicaps pre­
viously suffered. Room 405 E. H. 
which is shared by several faculty 
members will continue to be used 
by them. The chemistry depart­
ment faculty is greatly pleased with 
the new outfitting and hopes to ex­
pand the graduate work.
Student Tickets Sold
This year, as in the past, stu­
dents will be admitted to the con­
certs of the Pittsburgh Symphony, 
the Art Society, and the May Beegle 
Series at specially reduced prices. 
These reductions are given only if 
tickets for the entire series are 
purchased.
Students who wish to take advan­
tage of the offer must present iden­
tification cards. These may be ob­
tained from Miss Lawton in Room 
153, the Music Department Of­
fice.

---------------------------------------------------

4/ THE CARNEGIE TARTANTUESDAY, SEPTEMBER 23, 1941
. . €ff The Cuff . .
Greetings gates, let’s palpitate! 
The Mortar Board really put its tea 
dance over with the well-known 
bang. The cream of old Carnegie’s 
feminine crop turned out en masse, 
together with a bumper harvesting 
of stags.
Marjorie Weatherwax, “the face 
that launched a thousand ships” 
was giving all the boys a break on 
Thursday. Jim Frew, her ex- 
steady, has transferred to another 
school, but has left his Beta pin 
with Patty Milarr “to save for 
him.”
Aleta Cornelius was a very pop­
ular young lady, as usual. Lucky 
were the fellows who danced more 
than a minute with her.
Helen Robinson was conspicuous 
by her absence.
Dave Ellis picked out a blonde 
number, slightly on the tall and 
terrific side .
Iiep-cats Fred Dietrich and Mad­
eline Forsythe gave their usual ex­
hibition of excellent jitterbugging.
The A1 Burton-Lu Orr duo is 
looking more and more like a mere 
summer romance, with Nelson 
Crooks back in town again.
The Joe Salisbury-Ginny Sun- 
seri combination is an interesting 
item.
Best crack of the week (thanks 
to Bill Heller): “Subscribe to the
Technical and learn to talk shop 
with the boy friend.”
That disappointed look on Mike 
Bosak’s face is the result of Car­
oline Anderson’s decision to ma­
triculate in another college this 
year.
Ralph George, whom the girls at 
Tech have shamefully neglected is 
now looking at life through rose- 
colored glasses. The light of his 
life is a freshman at Maggie Murph, 
but Ralph won’t reveal her name. 
Incidentally, put R. G.’s new Olds 
Hydromatic on your must-see list.
Also noticed at Thursday’s tea 
dance: Vern Spitalcri moving in
on Franny Cox . . . Bill Iieer get­
ting in dances with several of the 
smoother of campus lovelies . . . 
Fred McQuilken doing all right 
with Franny Carlock . . . Mazie 
Rial being rushed by a bumper 
crop of admirers . . . Alex Riddle 
and Ruth I-leisel holding hands 
with that certain look in their eyes 
, . , Every man in the place .gazing 
at Eleanor Wilson . . .
Cornelius Sarosdy in constant 
circulation . . . Bud Gaub look­
ing his usual suave self . . . Bob
*
Smith sizing up the freshman situa­
tion . . . Bill. Mast trying very 
hard to monopolize his “Bunny” 
. . .Bill King getting only 3 sec­
onds in with the very popular All- 
derdice product Peggy Cole . . 
Marjorie Woodburn and Bill Wool- 
lenweber tripping the light you- 
know-what . . .
Doreen Barry made such a good 
impression at a Beta x-ushing dance 
that a rushee tried to get a date 
with her, but couldn’t beat Hal 
Dickson to the draw.
A1 Johanassen can’t be trusted, 
lie abscounded with nine dollars 
which Tassie Truxell gave him to 
hold at the tea dance. Incident­
ally Tassie will be heard singing 
over station KDKA Satui'day even­
ing at 8:30.
Don’t miss that Gleam in Caro­
lyn Thompson’s eye every time 
Luke Finney comes back to Pitts­
burgh from his teaching post in 
West Virginia.
John Beatty seems very much in­
terested in Josephine Loeffier.
Random notes: The girls really
go for Bill (Waffles) Warfel’s 
southern accent . . . Sara Coryea 
and Bob Campbell are still together 
. . . Bob Sleesman has his pin 
again . . . Kenny MacDonald lost 
no time with Billie Sommerfeld at 
the Mortar Board brawl.
A Winchell item: They are call­
ing those boring Skibo wolves 
“Skibores” now.
Tip to male students: Keep your 
respective eyes on the following 
new freshman girls: Rosemary
Dempsey, Janet Armstrong, Le- 
Verne Long, Betsy Ross, Mary Jean 
Dickson, Peggy Lawrence, Jackie 
Shearer, and Dorothy Gross.
Jim Voelz, being a Scimitar, was 
lucky enough to be on the inside 
for the freshman reception. He 
lost no time at all in dating up 
Jean Swaney and Grace Becker.
Get out the rocking chair for Ma­
rianna Hogg. Now that she is a 
dignified Junior, she has decided 
that she is too old for tea dances.
Don’t look now, but that was 
Helen Price peeping out from be- 
hand those bangs. She’s back at 
dear old Tech . . . Line forms to 
the right.
We see that Phil Lester Is sport­
ing a Beta Sig pin again. It’s a 
shame that Dave can’t get a fur­
lough every week—eh, Phil?__ ___-----
r*
THE BEST TIMES 
TO MAKE 
LONG DISTANCE 
CALLS
ALTHOUGH it looks something like a sunrise 
over Pike’s Peak, this is really a cliart showing 
the ebb and flow of Long Distance calls during 
an average day.
Notice the sharp peaks in mid-morning, mid- 
afternoon and at 7 P. M.? That’s when Long 
Distance lines are most crowded these busy days. 
Defense activities have put an extra heavy load 
on telephone facilities.
If you avoid these three peak periods, you’ll 
get faster service on your calls—and you’ll be 
helping to “speed the calls that speed defense.”
Organization Tea 
Marks Opening 
Of Avukah Society
Avukah is now a recognized or­
ganization on the Tech campus. It 
is hoped that this student group will 
be the means of bringing the Jew­
ish men and women on campus to­
gether and will, at the same time, 
serve as a means of furthering the 
interest of the student in his cul­
ture.
By way of introducing the stu­
dent body to Avukah and to its po­
tentialities, a tea will be held at 
the Carnegie Union on Sunday, 
September 28th, from 3 to 5:30 P. 
M., to which all students are invit­
ed. Miss Miriam Ephriam of the 
Young Men and Women’s Hebrew 
Association will be the guest speak­
er. Her timely subject will be “A 
Program For American Jewish Col­
lege Students.”
Avukah, the college student’s or­
ganization, has national affiliations. 
The Tech chapter is merely one of 
seventy other units located all the 
way from Amherst to Louisiana, to 
Southern California," Michigan, and 
back through to New York. Its pol­
icy and program are dynamic ones 
that hit at the heart of all possible 
interests, whether social or cultui’al, 
of the college student.
Carter Portrays 
“Vital Americans”
“Vital Americans who are part of 
the earth around them—that’s what 
they are,” said Clarence Carter, as­
sistant professor in P&D, “and'that’s 
why I want to paint them. Jesse 
Stuart and Roy Harris are crea­
tive geniuses in their own field. 
Each immortalizes through his own 
medium the American that he 
knows and understands. They are 
real men.”
Mr. Carter plans to exhibit both 
works in the Leragil Galleries in 
November. He has already finished 
the one of Stuart and is now work­
ing on Harris.
Mr. Stuart’s poems and short 
stories are found in Schibner’s, Es­
quire, the American, and the Atlan­
tic. More of his work has been 
published in "The Best Short Stor­
ies of the Year” than that of any 
other author.
Roy Harris, who, some critics 
think, is the only American who 
doesn’t rely on Europe for his 
style, has succeeded, according to 
Time, in bringing a feeling of 
pioneer America into his composi­
tions. He has much success with 
his symphonic style.
UNc4 Ml U4N nN.voFp
Following1 is the joke about Carnegie Tech which was used on 
the Rudy Vallee Radio broadcast with John Barrymore and Grouclio 
Marx last Thursday niglit :
¦ Grouclio: Vallee, Take his Measurements, llight Clavicle 32. 
Rudy-: Clavicle, 32. Grouclio: Thorax 22. Rudy: Thorax, 22. 
Grouclio: Everybody always says everything twice in a Hospital. 
Okay Vallee—Cartilege 26. Rudy: Carnegie Tech, 34. Grouclio: 
IIow’d you get that? Rudy: They scored iu the Second Half.
Council Minutes
September 16, 1941 
The meeting was called to order 
at 7:15 p. m.
Absent: Messrs. Reynolds, Hack­
er, Moorman, Breswick, Kelly, 
Fisher, McBride, Frey, and Misses 
Jones, Loeffier, and Freeman.
Mr. Richardson announced that 
two new elections would be neces­
sary in order to fill the places va­
cated by Mr. Kelly and Miss Free­
man. As Mr. Kelly was the elec­
tion chairman, Mr. Richardson ap­
pointed Mr. Durbin to handle the 
election. Petitions will be due Fri-
IN THE ARMY NOW
day, September 26. The election 
will be held on the following Tues­
day.
COMMITTEE REPORTS 
Publications
Mr. Durbin reported that Dr. 
Warden had asked him to get the 
publications committee together and 
try to formulate the policy for 
the publications on this campus. 
Spring- Carnival
Mr. Bosak reported that there 
will be a Fall CarniVal this year 
on the third and fourth of Octo­
ber.
Orientation
Mr. Wines reported that sponsors 
had been chosen for the freshman 
men, and that a series of smokers 
were being planned to further the 
process of getting them acquainted 
with the campus.
Financial
'Mr. Hill reported that only three 
accounts did not come within their 
budgets last year. He also stated 
that Student Council has a surplus 
of $2,581. The complete financial 
report will be published later.
IS THERE TIME?
The slide rule you would ordinarily buy this term will not 
be ready for four months. Sorry, it can’t be helped ... It 
has to do with defense. Tanks, guns, airplanes, all begin 
with mathematics — and mathematics means slide rules. 
Although we have multiplied our production, the Defense 
Program still absorbs rules slightly faster than we can make 
them now. But we are still increasing production. Within 
four months we are sure we can take care of everyone .. •
but well /end gov another !
- ’
Meanwhile, you are not forgotten. We have in produc­
tion a quantity of special slide rules that will tide you over 
until your standard rules are ready. These rules are not 
for sale. We will lend you one upon the deposit of $1.00 
— and give you a full trade-in allowance when your stand­
ard rule is ready. No charge for wear and tear. Use this 
rule with our compliments as long as the temporary emer­
gency lasts! Your campus bookstore has K&E “loaned- 
on-deposit” slide rules in stock for immediate delivery.
KEUFFEL 6* ESSER CO.
D 1867
kN.w1 Ro .o
ISÄLY'S
MILK SHAKES 
BIG ICE CREAM 
CONES
KLONDIKES 
TASTY LUNCHES
A
Three Stores in the 
College District-
5808 Forbes St., Squirrel Hill 
3714 Forbes Street, Oakland
MAIN PLANT:
3880 Boulevard of the Allies

---------------------------------------------------

TUESDAY, SEPTEMBER 23, 1941THE CARNEGIE TARTAN5
3The3Carti^
GRIDDERS READY FOR OPENER 
PL BoN U4oeA1m YCoF.1 ’23.oF
TARTAN STALWARTSIntramural Notes
Tartan Grid Prospects
Around this section of the country, the general concensus of 
opinion regarding Carnegie Tech’s football prospects is that Tech 
¦will be mighty lucky to come out of any one of their gridiron tussles 
on the large end of the score. However, there are quite a few per­
sonages around the Tartan camp who share an entirely different 
opinion of the situation—that Tech will win a fair percentage of 
their games—the most important members of this group being the 
boys on the squad and the coaching staff. Naturally, there are a lot 
of “ifs” which will determine the outcome of this opinion, the most 
important one being whether the gridders will escape injury.
Every member of the squad is contributing to the fighting spirit 
noticeable around the practice field and all are fighting for their 
positions. For the first time in quite a few years, everyone on the 
squad is on an equal footing and the entire squad is out to win at any 
cost. I believe and advocate the student body should get solidly 
behind the team and give them all the support possible. Anyone 
who is interested in “knocking” the team should first interview 
Henry Holets before proceeding any further in the matter.
Probable Starting Lineup
The starting lineup for Tech this year will have onty John 
Anderson and Hank Holets as the two regular linemen who have 
•returned, and Bill Johnson and Joe Pash as the two backs still in 
service. The probable line will be Anderson and Matonis at ends, 
Burns or Lindberg and Moorman at tackles, Boyd and Minkel at 
guards, and ITank Holets, the skipper,, at center. In the backfield 
will be McClure or Johnson calling signals, Cantini or Fritz and 
Pash at the halves, and Johnson or Philipchuck at fullback.
At the present time, three of the possible starting members of 
the squad are nursing injuries, Lindberg, Cantini, and Philipchuck, 
making the starting lineup indefinite for the opening game Saturday 
at the »Stadium.
Improvements Aiding the Intramural Program
Two improvements have been made around the campus during 
the past summer which will help Mr. Eyman promote his intramural 
program more easily. The Soccer Field has finally been graded to 
eliminate the large depression that turned into a mudhole every 
time it rained, and the hill along the Cut was partially removed to 
give the touch football fields some additional space.
Freshmen Answer 
Call, Start Practice
some good varsity men in the fu­
ture. With more practice under the 
able staff of freshman mentors this 
team should shape up in fairly good 
style. Also valuable experience 
can be gained by those freshman 
who have reported.
The men who have answered the 
call are:
Twenty Report, 
Several Men 
Look Promising
The Athletic Association issued a 
call for all who are interested in 
playing freshmen football to report 
to Coach A1 Irwin. So far twenty 
men have answered the call. In ad­
dition to this it might ibe explain­
ed that any other men who would 
like to try out for this team ¿re 
welcome. In as much as the fresh­
man team is the source of supply 
for future varsity teams thex-e is an 
almost unlimited advantage offer­
ed to those who aspire along the 
gridiron lines. In short it is not too 
late to report for the team. An­
other point worthy of mention is 
that according to a school rul­
ing any transfer wishing to play 
football must first play a season 
with the freshman team. In other 
words a man coming from another 
school must be farmed out on the 
freshman: • squad.
Three practices have proved that 
the material this year will provide
Sam Jardine 
George Sniegel 
W. Keslerling 
Homer Dielmeier 
Ray Sansbei'y 
Everet Brest 
Norman Parker 
Edgar King 
R. Hargovich 
Harold Fredrick
The freshman always receive act­
ual experience with other teams. In 
years gone by many of the fresh­
man and prep school teams in the 
district have been met. Kiski, Pitt 
Freshmen, St. Vincent Freshmen, 
Washington and Jefferson Fresh­
men, West Virginia Freshmen. Al­
though the schedule has not been 
made up for this year there is a 
fine selection of opponents to be had 
in this vicinity.
Your Last Chance
to get Walt Disney's
with the purchase of a bottle of
PARKER -rn
QjiinAat only 15^
No box-tops to send —no wailing— 
justget this quick-drying, pen-clean- ^ 
ing ink at your retailer's and receive 
your Song Book right then and there!
We might have known that such a swell offer would 
soon exhaust retailers’ supplies, but v/e didn’t dream 
it would happen so fast. I f you don’t find any left at the 
first store, try a second. But act without delay, to be safe.
And when you fill your pen with Parker Quink, be 
sure to try it without a blotter. See how fast it dries 
ON PAPER—31 Jo quicker than average of 4 others. 
And see how beautifully your pen works—a Parker or 
ANY OTHER. For Qu.ink contains a secret agent that 
dissolves deposits left by pen-clogging inks. That’s 
really why we creatcd Quink—to. guard pens from 
sediment and gum that stop the flow.
Qu ink will help keep your pen in your hands and 
out of repair shops.
To induce you to try it, we are giving Disney’s Song 
Book FREE when you buy Qu ink for 15 cents. Better 
clip out this announcement as a reminder. It’s prob­
ably your last chance.
The Parker Pen Company, Janesville, Wisconsin.
6 DUMBO Lyrics included
Look Out For Mr. Stork 
Casey Junior Baby Mine I’ve Seen Everything Song of the Roustabouts 
and 94 otlier Favorites by these and other authors.
¦ Walt Disney Productions
gC3l5aUl5N DlF,l5a DlFao.I. 
9F PI Po,,I.3 v11 g3. To.3FlM
HANK HOLETS JOE PASH
Two of the outstanding performers of the 1940 Tartan squad who are 
returning this year are (left) Captain Henry Holets, center, and (right) 
Joe Pash, right halfback.
Tartans To Battle 
Titans In Opener, 
Saturday Afternoon
Visitors Kevetl “”For Encounter 
With Teeliites
Donald Anderson 
Edward Hoffman 
Lanny Peclcoltz 
Don Beam 
George Salvaggio 
W. P. Sutherland 
Robert Irving 
Harry Sindsay 
Simon Korneff 
Wilham Ryan
By Don Watkins
On the coming Saturday the Ski- 
bo footballers will clash with the 
Westminster team in the Pitt Sta­
dium. This promises to be a very 
good game from the spectator’s 
angle for the reason that the Titans 
are out to win this game at all costs. 
Spirit is running high on the .West­
minster campus and there promises 
to be a pretty fair turnout from that 
campus.
Both teams are heavily charged 
with sophomores so that there will 
not be too much spectacular ball 
played on Saturday, but since the 
teams are pretty evenly matched, 
the game should offer plenty of ex­
citement.
Westminster’s starting line-up 
will probably be as follows: Joe 
Demoise is scheduled to start at left 
end. He hails from Greensburg, 
weighs 160 pounds, has a twin in 
the left half position. Joe is a 
sophomore this year, his second 
year on the Titan squad. He was 
switched from halfback to end this 
year to strengthen Westminster’s 
passing attack. Ted Ossoff will un­
doubtedly fill the other terminal 
position. Ossoff is a junior this year 
and is out to win his third foot­
ball letter this sea 'on. He is tall, 
tough, and a good pass retriever. 
Hopkins and Zech with Reed as an 
alternate will be representing the 
Titans in the tackle positions. Hop­
kins weighs 195 pounds, is tall and' 
well built, and will probably see 
much action on the Titan line dur­
ing the coming season. He is re­
turning to' the squad after remain­
ing out during his sophomore year. 
Chal Zech won a letter last year as 
an end. Reed also has a letter for 
his efforts last year on the West­
minster line. In the guard posi­
tions will ibe Scovel Carlson and 
Jack Hudson. Carlson served on 
Westminster’s line last year, but 
was crowded out of a letter. Hud­
son received his numerals last year 
on the line; has. a quite complete 
background of football since he re­
ceived two letters for high school 
ball and attended Kiski for two 
years before entering Westminster. 
Hamilton will fill the position of 
center on Saturday. He is a trans­
fer from Duke. He js considered
the best center ever turned out of 
Mt. Lebanon High School.
The two field generals who will 
serve the Titans are Riggle and 
Evanoff. Riggle is a sophomore 
from Vandergrift, weighs 180 
pounds, will be the first string 
quarter-back for this season. Pete 
Evanoff is the Titan’s captain for 
1941. He is a senior and will play 
blocking half most of the year, but 
is scheduled to be the alternate in 
the quarterback position. Evanoff 
packs a terrific amount of fight and 
is considered one of the best backs 
turned out of Westminster in many 
seasons. The fullback position is 
to be filled by a transfer from Slip­
pery Rock .to W & J to Westmin­
ster, Tom Murphy. Murphy is 
noted for his ability to pick up 
valuable yardage on line smashes,
' his typical Irish fight, and his good 
football judgement. Felix Demoise 
and Dick Newton are slated to 1111 
the halfback positions. Felix 
Demoise, the twin brother of Joe 
Demoise, won his varsity letter last 
year for his work in the back­
field. He is an excellent passer 
and will probably work with New­
ton and his brother Joe in this line 
of offense. Newton was injured 
early in last year's season and 
was kept out of play for that rea­
son. He is one of the Titans’ best 
all-around backs. He has ability at 
passing, kicking, and running the 
ball. • He won his freshman letter 
in 1939.
With this line-up against our Tar­
tars, it behooves all the students 
. to be on hand Saturday afternoon 
and to support the team. Tech has 
a tough season ahead and it will 
mean a lot to them to know that 
they have the student body’s uncji- 
vided support._______________________
Another Intramural Sports sea­
son is about to be ushered in the 
very near future. As has always 
been the case the first competition 
will be touch football. The Intra­
mural Board will make up the 
schedule with the list of teams that 
filed their entrees yesterday. This 
schedule will be made up by Thurs­
day of this week and will be posted 
in the gym and also managers of the 
respective teams will receive one.
There is a plan afoot to run the 
season as a league and not as elim­
ination as was the case last year. If 
enough teams enter, two leagues 
will e formed, but the question of 
whether one group, will be com­
posed of fraternity teams alone and 
the other of independent teams 
alone or a mixture of both still re­
mains to be settled.
There are several restrictions to 
be kept in mind, namely that of 
eligibility. No members of the 
football or hockey squads will be 
allowed to' participate. The reason 
for this is that members of teams 
that are engaged in sports which in­
volve bodyly contact are disqual­
ified by a standing rule of Intra­
mural sports.
In order to create closer contact 
between the Board and the sep­
arate organizations which have en­
tered teams a board of team man­
agers was formed last year. This 
group will function this year in a 
more authoriative and complete 
manner. The manager of each team 
will be present at the meetings at 
which suggestions for bettering the
Intramural program will be dis­
cussed and presented to the Board. 
Also they will pi'esent a trophy for 
the display of the best sportsman­
ship, to be decided by the officials 
and players. Also rules will be 
explained and discussed for the 
benefit of the teams. This should bo 
a great help to the officials and 
make for a faster and more inter­
esting brand of football. Mr. Ey­
man hopes that all teams keep in 
close touch with their manager, in 
order to lessen many of the delays 
and misunderstanding of other 
years.
Many changes have been made 
to the advantage of this program. 
The Cut has been widened to allow 
the regulation fields to be layed out 
parallel to Forbes Street. Thus, 
more area can be had as playing 
space. The field which is referred 
to as the soccer field has been 
graded and leveled.
A wide and inclusive Intramural 
sports program is one of Presi­
dent Doherty’s aims. What with 
all the improvements and advan­
tages offered this year the program 
should reach its goal. The sports 
which have in the past been just 
one of those things will be placed 
on the card. The managers club 
will help to ihcrease the entrees in 
these events and make them as 
much a part of tho whole set-up as 
football, basketball or softball. Some 
of these events are: wrestling, ping 
pong, boxing, squash, swimming, 
bowling, badminton, fowl shoot­
ing, volleyball, handball, etc.
Soccer Practice Begins 
For Carnegie Hooters
This year’s soccer team rolled in­
to action yesterday when Coach 
O’Conner called a meeting for all 
old members and new prospects for 
the varsity teams and for all those 
interested In trying out for the 
freshman team. Although last 
year's squad, suffered quite a few 
close defeats, the boys arc look­
ing forward to a brilliant season 
with renewed vigor. Some of the 
boys returning this year are Ton- 
dori', Riekley, Sivechek, Thomas, 
and Riesacker. Although student 
interest in soccer has been some­
what lacking these past few years, 
there has always been a large group 
interested in participating in the 
game. Coach Pat O’Conner, a well 
known expert at soccer, has train­
ed these players so that they have 
become quite proficient at the game.
A glance at the soccer schedule will 
verify this statement since the
squadi plays many outstanding
schools In this district.
Tho schedule for this season in­
cludes Slippery Rock, Franklin
and Marshall, Allegheny, Oberlln, 
Grove City, and. Frostburg. Tho 
first game of the Henson Is with 
Slippery Rock on Friday, October 
the tenth, at Slippery Rock, All 
those who are Interested in seeing 
a game filled with action and ex­
citement, be sure to see the Car­
negie Tech boolers play Franklin 
and Marshall on Saturday, October 
111, at the soccer field on the Tech 
Campus. Candidates for the var­
sity or freshman soccer squads 
should make it a point to see 
Coach O’Conner as soon as possible. 
He can be found either in the gym 
or on the soccer field any afternoon 
between four-thirty and six.
PARKER PENS, PENCILS AND QUINK
aiNGERXSHttKS
SINGER’S REPAIRS OLD PENS AND PENCILS
FOR LIFE BY w
PARKER'S 
BIUE DIAMOND iw
ee
9I4No T5lloIl. 
i35l3 9l5oCoC, 
VFl Vol.3 fUC
Tech’s fall track squad, the cross­
country team, is looking forward 
with high hopes to a successful sea­
son. Although official practices 
have not started yet, most of the 
boys on the team have been out 
running on the home course.through 
Schenley Park trying to get in shape 
early.
The team returning to school this 
year is the same squad as last year, 
aided by several sophomores who 
have come up from the plebe team. 
Probably the most important addi­
tion to the team is Frank Pritchard 
who, in Coach Halferty’s opinion, is 
one of the best distance runners 
ever wearing Tech’s plaid during 
his tenure as coach.
For the future information of the 
reader, the team with the lowest 
score wins the meet. Number one 
inan gets one point, number two 
man gets two points, and so on. 
The five men on the winning team 
make the points for their team, 
and the sum of their points sub­
tracted from fifty-five gives the 
score of the losing team. The small­
er score, which is that of the win­
ning team is always given . first, 
such as 18-37.
They all cheer Parker’s
iUPERCHmEB Pen
—a Third More Ink
.4Al AtNFARN oa .4FNN vNhhsplovl 1Acs.LCN CNl1 — 
25N .o FNtoh5.3olAFL MlNsfAl2 YAchN11 ?3hhNF
Today, in the world of science, it is 
known that Parker achievements mark 
the march in Pen progress.
Known far and wide as THE 
JEWELS of PENDOM, Parker Pens 
and matched Pen and Pencil Sets are 
the choice of 50 million people.
So remember, don’t buy until you try 
Parker. Parker’s Blue Diamond is a Life 
Guarantee Contract — makes pens so 
marked cost less than the poorest.
The Parker Pen Co., New York, Chicago,
San Francisco. Factorial at Jancnvillc, 
Wiaconain and Toronto, Canada.
TELEVISION
II1-4 «Ui/ÿi/y
Maxima, $10 
Ma|or (ilium.) or 
Dobutanto, $0.73 
Junior or Sub-Dob,*3
Wrltoflno Panelli 
lo match, 
*3.75 to *3
The Pen with the smart Arrow 
Military Clip and the Oil-Smooth,
Lubricated Point that won't wear 
scratchy in a lifetime!
No matter what pen you may happen 
to be shown first, don’t make the mis­
take of making a purchase until you 
have seen and .F3N2 the Parker Vacu- 
matic—there is nothing else like it.
This is largely due to the Parker 
Laboratories, staffed by able scientists 
in physical metallurgy, chemistry, engi­
neering. No other pen-maker we know 
attempts the research and development 
that go on daily here.
larker
?
 Parker's Blun u mo rid on Iho pan li our Life Contract unconditionally Guarantoalno to service tho pen for 
Iho llfo of tho owner oxcopt for Ion and intentional 
damage, aubjoct only to a 35/ charoo for postooo, Intur- 
onco, and hondilng, provided complete pen it roturned 
for lervice.
nCaB^ Yt., Ha^ Be h3 i,h3ae EY .eh^A HB,Ra, _. INK, 3Ta Ha^-nCaB^h^A h^RP h Si B^r K Si
1—Parker's 14 K Gold Poinw
>3 utterly different, finer-tez- 
tured and much leiifl brittle 
than ordinary 14 K Gold.
2—iw is wipped wiwh oil-smoowh 
hsmiridium, developed under 
the direction of Dr. Robert 
Pickun, chief Parker metallur- 
Kiut, former inutructor of met­
allurgy at Yale Univernity.
3—Parker's hne-dand nac- 
less Filler — a baaically better
principle and the eanieiitof all 
to operate — makcn room for 
about a third more ink than tlxe 
average of three well-known 
nac-type pemi.and iiubntantially 
more than any one of them.
4—Parker's pawenwed uele­
vision barrel Icto you SEE 
when your pen need» refilling.
5—Parker's smarw laminawed 
swyling—ntreamlincdPcnrl and 
Jet RINGS—an tihimmering an 
velvet—iu wholly cxclunive.

---------------------------------------------------

ßTHE CARNEGIE TARTANTUESDAY, SEPTEMBER 23, 1941
RODGERS
DAIRY STORES
MILK SHAKES
Made from Piiro Whole Milk 
for only 10c
We Do Not Use Skim Milk, 
o
NEAREST STORES LOCATED
---AT---
395 FORBES STREET 
Near Bouquest Street 
4619 CENTER AVENUE 
Near Craig Street
FORT PITT 
TYPEWRITER CO.
ATlantic 8320 
644 LIBERTY AVENUE
Fort Pitt is the Place 
to Buy 
TYPEWRITERS
Slifistick Fantasy ...
by BAcp Y4oFN
Tilings are .starting to simmer down, and the usual lackaday 
inertia has me overcome. Vague, phantom resolutions that 1 made 
have passed on into tin* limbo where those things are usually de­
posited. Shining ambition has dwindled until I now sit heavy 
hearted at the prosper,!, oJ! a full year’s work ahead. But, what the 
devil, Archie. Ton,jours Gai. There will always be a TAIWAN.
Summer passed quickly, especially when I look back on it. 
There were a i'ew incidents that stand out and one that even slaps 
me in the face. Not that spilling a bottle olí acid is in itselli a crime, 
but drooling it down my former friend's suit is unliorgiveable. At 
Jeast’that was the gist of what he told me. It was miraculous to see 
the little spots of water turn the green cloth a hazy brown. The 
pattern wasn’t worth mentioning, but with a little practice X know 
that acid splatterprinting could become my form of expression. As 
a form of art it appeals to me. But I like having friends toó, I 
suppose.
Books seem to be popular again this year. All the lads and 
lassies were huddled around the bookstore insinuating their way to 
the front. Tastes in literature haven’t changed; students are still 
asking for the same non-fiction that has daunted them in the past. 
Think of all the. futility in buying a book, passing the course, get­
ting an A and not knowing anything about the subject. And yet 
they come back and push and strain year after year. Perhaps I had 
better come back when the store is not so busy and will weleome my 
business. As a client or patron, I’m not too steady. But I do spend 
when 1 have it.
Aurora borealis disturbed my peace of mind Thursday night. 
Alter dozing and dazing all day, the unreal phenomenon seemed like 
lutilul dream. Not sure whether I was awake or asleep, I was 
1 ji to drop oil: the roof 1 was watching from in the. hope that 1 
aid glide gently to earth, which isn’t fit all a rare occurence in my 
dreams. .Technicolor displays like this keep me looking up and de­
veloping kinks in my neck. I’m glad scientists don’t know, what 
causes the, things lor I can’t even understand the explanations 
quibbled about. Or perhaps my romantic spirit won’t ¿plow me to 
explain one of the beauties of nature in such mundane terms.
industries Bulletin Board is still cluttered. Everyone going 
past the board, stops and read each item whether of interest to him 
I in a little more particular, however,.and read only the per1- 
They should be separated from announcements and bargain 
id put in a corner by themselves. They could even be sub- 
into interesting and uninteresting and save me quite a bit 
of time and trouble. “Bill, wait for me at eight.” Of what possible 
interest could that be to me or anyone, except someone named Billy 
But now and again a juicy unrepeatable tidbit comes up and makes all the stopping worthwhile.
The elevators in Engineering Hall are as clumsy as ever. It’s 
time some new ones were installed, but even if the present ones were 
renovated, it would be a distinct advantage. They stick. And I 
have yet to be embarrassed by being stuck in one with a winsome 
lass. Usually I am just stranded alone, and the profs won’t accept 
it lor un excuse, saying I have no business in the rickety thing in the 
first place. Even few 01’ the faculty use it because of its crotcheti- 
ness. 1 trust the lift to get me places, but the ride will never break any speed records.
Smokers everywhere like their 
COOLER MILDER BETTER TASTE
Chesterfield’s mounting popularity is 
due to the Right Combination of the world’s 
leading tobaccos ... the best known cigarette 
tobaccos from Tobaccoland, U.S.A., blended 
with the best that come from abroad.
K. Cornellbbb
Vol.3l5N2 aFoe CARN ; 
of ;.;rent stars who were famous 
years ago made me realize the age 
of this huge old theater. As I went 
! h-IK corner, I was practically 
wn by a huge piece of 
ng moved to the stage. 
h rather musty and the 
smell of grease paint lingered In 
every corner.
Certainly, all of. the trouble I 
wont to, to get this Interview was 
amply repaid by the result. Not 
knowing where Miss Cornell was 
staying, l had to call many hotels; 
my search ended by calling her sec­
retary at the theater, She was 
very considerate and arranged the 
meeting- It was she also who went 
to the trouble of getting me a ticket 
for the matinee —Miss- Cornell’s 
parting gesture—a eouriesy not to 
be forgotten. The play, "Doctor’s 
Dilemma," was a witty and color­
ful presentation in which Miss Cor­
nell seemed just as she had when 
I talked with her.
Vaughn Monroe
Vol.3l5N2 aFoe CARN • 
A native of Jeanette, Pa., Monroe 
used to commute to classes in a 
Model-T Ford and play in a dance 
band four nights a week. “The 
combination of late hours and the 
35 mile trip didn’t make for regular 
attendance,” Vaughn says, “And the 
old Model T didn’t help any.”
After leaving Tech in 1932, Mon­
roe went to New York where he 
continued to study and take voice 
lessons. To earn funds to pay for 
these, he sang with numerous dance 
bands and as a featured NBC solo­
ist. In 1938 Vaughn organized his 
own orchestra in Boston which was 
known as a sweet society band. 
Later he changed the whole style 
of his band and started to let loose 
¦with that hot trumpet of his. The 
result was an almost instant suc­
cess and in a short span of time 
he has become one of the most talk­
ed of young bandleaders in the 
country.
Jump Frosli!
Persecuted ’45er 
Hopes for Revenge
A Freshman’s position on the 
campus of C. I. T. was, last week, 
much the same as that of a worm 
. . . an honest-to-goodness brown, 
slimy, earthworm . . . upon which 
most upperclassmen are prone to 
walk. Taking cover, very, very 
low and hopefully out of sight, one 
dares to peek Into the intricacies of 
freshman orientation (a harmless 
terminology) . . . Jump at conclu­
sions! . . . Jump! . . . two steps 
and dive . . . Hey you! . . . Take 
oil’ your hat when you pass the Sen­
ior fence! . . . Where Is your 
heart? . . . My heart? . . . On my 
left side ... No! No! No! . . . 
Oh, now 1 remember . . . one of 
those Tech Twisters . . . Yes! . . . 
“My heart is in the work" . . . 
quote, Andrew Carnegie.
As a matter of fact, the compari­
son is unfavorable to the worm, 
since it is often left unmolested 
while freshmen are the underdogs 
. . . yellow, brown, pink, and blue 
ones at that! It is not an unusual 
sight to see freshmen lined up, per­
forming at the discretion of some 
upperclassman who delights in ac­
robatics and who is anxious to de­
termine the extent a frosh’s spirit 
can be strained.
This article is not a protest 
against unruly practices designed to 
amuse someone, certainly not fresh­
men, because it is comical to watch 
from a safe distance. “Safe” is a 
cautionary measure when one is apt 
to be asked to participate in the 
sport. Everyone has a part to play, 
and, 45’ers, your day will surely 
come.
A word of advice, fellow class­
men: Even upperclassmen have
hearts, and their seriousness about 
technicalities may prove to be a 
Weakness in the “hound versus fox 
system.” Being technically minded, 
they frown on late appointments, 
late entrances to classes, and de­
railing fellows on errands. Choose 
your alibis, fellows, but look out 
for them next year (Upperclassmen 
are not supposed to read the pre­
vious sentence, and if they do, 
they’re going to make the worm 
squirm.). Anyway the problem is 
approached, the answer is the same, 
and so . . . the worm continues to 
squirm ... a freshman’s life is 
not a dull one . . . Live and learn 
. . . that’s the motto.
iinn’apu“ Ncs». 1
Registration DlI.IC3. DlFnNIa 
VFl 9SF.I With 9ICOIl VII3
Ye olde bread line has gone the 
way of all flesh, and only the 
vestiges are left to plague our ad­
vanced society, but the registration 
line is one descendant that refuses 
to dissolve. There are quite a few 
tortures that will equal those ex­
perienced in this line, but they are 
isolated instances and do not recur 
semi-yearly. Few cases of col­
lapse had been reported at the 
end of registration, and the hysteria 
inspired by the pedal strain re­
quired little treatment. It was sug­
gested that the S. P. C. A. be call­
ed to look into the gruesome busi­
ness, but they said that there was 
no law under which the school 
authorities could be restrained.
If you are a regular full sched­
ule student, you started to register 
at nine o’clock and finished the last 
lap when the sun was beginning to 
set. In the interim you wrote your 
name twenty or thirty times, sched­
uled classes, filled out coupons, paid 
the cashier, and received your 
plebe bible—all of which was a 
pleasant respite from the enforced 
in-between - times - waiting. There 
was no element of .suspense in­
volved, no surprises ahead, not even 
any new faces to divert your mind 
from your burning feet.
Instead: of utilizing every fleeting 
moment to further your education, 
one complete day is wasted in reg­
istering. Street cars are featuring 
educational posters that go far in 
Instructing the public, radio pro­
grams hold quiz programs, theaters 
have bank nights, but a college that 
has as its duty the education of its 
pupils, allows a whole day to go by 
without having a student learn one 
new thing. It 'hurts to think that 
the instructors doubt our industry 
enough to think that we don’t miss 
these precious hours we give up 
from math, chem, and social rela­
tions.
Think of the boredom and ennui 
that could be dissipated in waiting 
lines if a few quiz programs were 
installed along the main stem. 
Door prizes could be given, and hot 
dog stands set up. Pin ball ma­
chines could assist the cashiers in 
raking in the dough, all of which 
would step up the lunereal pace that 
now encumbers the line. Many 
solutions will immediately present 
themselves to anyone giving the 
matter some thought. One bright 
spot worth mentioning in the whole 
sordid affair, is the patience which 
we enrollees received from the peo­
ple along the line. Mass produc­
tion lines have their value in in­
dustry, but the problem of 
monotony makes their total utility 
questionable for registration. Cour­
age, students, the millenium is at 
hand; but until then, remember, 
“They also serve who only stand 
and wait.”
Y5eeNF uFAeA 
Vho1N1 ?ohhov3lR 
Y5ccN11a5h YNA1ol
This August the Drama Depart­
ment of Fine Arts closed its eighth 
summer session. According to Mr. 
Douglas McLean, Director' of the 
Summer School, this was one of the 
most successful six-week periods it 
has ever had.
The season started off brilliantly 
with a revised version of “No More 
Marriages,” a play written in our 
own play-writing class by Ed Hunt, 
who graduated from the Drama De­
partment last year and who is now 
on the faculty of the University of 
Pennsylvania.
The second play, Edward Perey 
and Reginald Denham’s comedy 
thriller, “Ladies in Retirement” was 
presented under the direction of 
Mrs. Kimberly. The season was 
closed with the production of 
Thorton Wilder’s well known “Our 
Town” under the direction of Mr. 
McLean.
Besides play production, courses 
were offered in speech, technical 
work, stagecraft, acting technique, 
and eurythmics. In addition to 
Mr. McLean and Mrs. Kimberly, 
the .summer faculty was composed 
of Mr. Kimberly, Airs. Skinner, and 
a student, Lester Stanford, who was 
assistant technical director.
Although many of the summer 
students came to Tech only for the 
six week session, the majority of 
them are regularly enrolled in the 
school. Among those winter school 
students whose desire for tile stage 
kept them there during vacation 
were Elise Cox, Drama ’43, Patricia 
Meyer, Drama ’43, Thomas Jones, 
Drama ’43, Sally Lindemuth, P. 
and D. ’42, Adelyne Roth, Drama 
’44, Betty Bieberson, Drama ’43 and 
Milton Levine, Music ’43.
Frosh Printers 
Attend Smoker
Tech’s newly formed Freshman 
Orientation Committee held a 
smoker at the Student Union last 
Thursday evening for all Printers 
enrolled in the day school. This 
was the first activity of its. type for 
the new organization.
President Paul Wines presided 
and explained to the freshmen of 
the class the principal purpose of 
the meeting. The idea is to have 
the new men really get to know the 
upperclassmen. The point was 
carried out very successfully as 
there are only about twenty-one 
freshmen and about twenty-five up­
perclassmen.
Professor Sterling introduced the 
main speaker of the evening, Mr. 
Edward Murphy. Mr. Murphy, one 
of Pittsburgh’s outstanding men in 
the advertising and printing field, 
proved to be a speaker with a 
wealth of information which was 
backed up by real experience. After 
his short address, he answered the 
questions of the students.
Professor Pitkin, also of the de­
partment, was called upon, and he 
addressed a few words to the fresh­
men. Professor Work, as acting 
Dean of Freshmen, expressed his 
happiness at seeing how success­
fully the meeting developed.
After the discussion, an adjourn­
ment was made to the lobby for re­
freshments and a general chat 
among the different classmen. 
Smokers of the same type are to be 
held for members of all the other 
departments in the very near fu­
ture.
Design Talk Featured
Lazio Gabor, Professor of Archi­
tectural Design, will address the 
Pittsburgh alumnae chapter of Kap­
pa Alpha Theta. Mr. Gabors talk, 
which will feature points on interior 
decorating and design, will be given 
at the regular monthly meeting of 
K. A. T. at their chapter house on 
Bellefield Avenue.
CRAIG WOOD
winner of the National Open, 
the Masters' and the Metro­
politan Open, three of the 
most coveted tournaments in
