January 16, 1973 Volume 73 Number 14
Photo by Greg NickelMr. Jacob Belkin, co-principal investigator and project manager of Urban game
Computer Simulated 
Urban Game Planned
#C-MU Helps 
Veterans
by Debbie Siegel
A program has been instituted on 
January 15 which provides academic assist­
ance- to War veterans in order to help them 
prepare to take a high school equivalency 
^ examination or to prepare for college at­
tendance. These services are being offered 
by the Western Pennsylvania Veterans 
Educational Service Center which is now 
on campus. The establishment of this pro­
gram is a result of a federal grant of eighty 
thousand dollars from the Office of Edu­
cation, whose assumption is that as the 
Viet Nam war draws fo a close there will be
• an increasing necessity to provide alterna­
tives to men returning from the armed 
forces.
Ludwig Freeman, the program’s director 
who is currently attending the University 
of Pittsburgh for a Ph.D. in Higher Educa­
tion Administration, discussed the unique 
facets of this new program. “CMU is 
sharing in the intital effort of creating a 
^ new program which can provide an oppor­
tunity for servicemen. Each veteran who 
attends will receive full GI benefits every 
month for the time he is enrolled and will 
receive a 36 month entitlement after he 
leaves. The only pre-requisite to enter the 
program is an interview where the veteran 
can prove that he has a serious desire to 
attend college or vocational school. We are 
^ the only school in the area who offers 
classes to veterans at night and provides the 
opportunity for veterans to hold jobs 
during the day.”
In conjunction with stimulating the vet­
eran with an incentive tp return to the 
educative process, there are no outside 
class assignments. Each semester is sixteen 
weeks long and class hours extend from 
4:30 to 9:30 making fifteen hours of class 
time with ten hours for the tutorial and 
independent study. The instructors come 
from various teaching experiences in the 
Pittsburgh area who can cope with all kinds 
of people. Ronald Virgin, who will be 
teaching history, graduated from Pitt and 
will be studying for a master’s degree at 
CMU. He is a recent post-veteran who Mr. 
Freeman suggested would be sensitive to
* the problems to the returning veteran.”
According to the present registration, 
twenty-five' to forty people are expected to 
be enrolled in the college preparatory and
continued on page 11
New Graduate 
.»Programs in MIS
Graduate science students at 
Carnegie-Mellon University are being 
offered individualized master’s programs 
for the first time this year.
The program is designed for students 
who wish to obtain preparation for work in 
problem-oriented research and develop­
ment, or teaching, and is at the same time 
part of an effort to give students more 
flexibility in their education.
“Students in science need more places 
where they can stop and make a choice,” 
says James S. Langer, associate dean of 
' Mellon Institute of Science and professor 
of physics. “Before, graduate students in 
the basic sciences were generally expected 
?to obtain a Ph.D.. but now they have a 
point of choice they didn’t have in the 
past.”
Dr. Langer comments further: “The 
need for technical preparation beyond the 
bachelor’s degree is increasing, while the 
need for Ph.D.’s is decreasing. Specifically, 
what we’re offering students is the oppor­
tunity to get a master’s degree in certain
^ continued on page 4
A new Urban Game to be developed at 
Carnegie-Mellon University will aim to 
show future urban managers how a city 
really works, instead of how it ought to 
work. Mr. Jacob Belkin, co-principal in­
vestigator and project manager of the 
Game, says, “The effects of new policies- 
—for example, urban renewal— have fre­
quently been different from those intended 
because planners and managers have had to 
rely on their perception of how an urban 
system ought to behave, without really 
understanding how the system does be­
have.”
The University recently received a grant 
of S65,000 from the General Electric 
Foundation to develop the Game, one ot
11 grants awarded this year under the 
Foundation’s Educational Incentive 
Awards Program.
The computer-assisted game will be a 
semester-long course intended primarily for 
second-year Master’s students in the School 
of Urban and Public Affairs (SUPA). The 
Game will serve to give students in urban
management an extended simulated in­
volvement in city affairs and at the same 
time increase researchers’ knowledge of 
how a city actually does function and de­
velop.
“In the Game, the city is represented by 
a computer simulation,” explains Mr. 
Belkin, research associate in SUPA’s Urban 
Systems Institute and administrator of the 
Carnegie Tech Management Game, a widely 
used game simulating corporation manage­
ment which originated at CMU. “Among 
the factors incorporated into the model 
will be: multi-neighborhood characteristics; 
structures allowing the students to tax and 
spend money for primary municipal ser­
vices; and patterns reflecting historic urban 
development.”
All the students will play roles, either as 
elected officials or members of an elector­
ate representing specific voting blocks. “By 
having the students, through these roles, 
interact with the urban data in the com­
puter over an extended period, we can in­
continued on pagel 1
City of Ice 
to be Built
Eleven Carnegie-Mellon University stu­
dents and a professor will help build a city 
of ice in Fargo, North Dakota, this January 
as part of an architectural research project 
to demonstrate the potential for building 
systems that can be readily changed to 
meed changing needs.“We want to stimulate* the scientific 
community to launch extensive research 
toward development of flexible new build­
ing systems,” said Volker Hartkopf, assist­
ant professor of architecture at CMU who 
will accompany the students to North 
Dakota. “We hope to provide the first full 
scale realization of responsive environ­
ments in architecture.”
Sponsors of the workshop are Carnegie- 
Mellon, the University of Texas at Austin, 
and North Dakota State University at Far­
go. Between 100 and 200 students from 
these three universities and other schools in 
the U.S., Canada, and Europe will parti­
cipate in the two-week research project 
which begins January 10. Utilities and the 
site for the experiment are being provided 
by the city of Fargo.
Using architectural concepts primarily 
developed by Professor Wolf H. Hilbertz of 
the University of Texas at Austin, the stu­
dents will build living units and sleeping 
quarters for themselves, and will construct 
larger buildings for entertainment and eat­
ing. Seminars and experiments will be con­
ducted throughout the ice village.
Water/ice was chosen as the building 
material for the project because it is one of 
the most suitable materials for responsive 
environment construction at this time, It is 
inexpensive, readily available, can be easily 
disposed of without creating environmental 
problems, and can be rigidized by freezing 
and reclaimed by melting.
“Utilizing this material at the work­
shop,” Hartkopf said, “we expect to 
develop and demonstrate processes, forms, 
and techniques which could be used with 
yet-to-be-developed building materials with 
similar potential.”
The village will be built in a large park 
in Fargo, where temperatures in January 
range from about I 5 to 30 degrees below 
zero. Through use of radiant heat and the 
glazing of interior walls, however, the stu- 
continued on page 4
Photo Winners 
Announced
by Ed Levine
Friday, January 12 marked the opening 
of the TARTAN Photography Show in the 
Student Gallery. The show represents the 
best work of over forty participants who 
entered the newspaper’s photography con­
test.
Six prizes in three categories were 
awarded for the best photographs. The 
judging was conducted by three prominent 
designers and advertisers in the Pittsburgh 
area. They were Bob Copeland of 
Ketcham, MacLeod and Grove, Inc., Bill 
Suchy of Fuller, Smith, and Ross, Inc., and 
Rick Horton of Van Dine , Horton, Inc.
The catagories and winners were: I. Still 
life-Bob Reinemann and George Bias 2. 
People-Steve Michaele and Jeff Kippax 3. 
Portfolio-Barb Kat/enberg and Marsha 
Pillet.
The opening was well attended and 
featured music by the Glue Band as well as 
refreshments.
As well as the Photography contest, the
continued on page 4
Two CMU students, Tom Young and Eugene Hastings, spent part of their Christmas vacation 
working for the university Housing Office. On their own volition, these two Electrical Engineers 
proposed to revamp the antiquated Morewood Gardens house phone system. They repaired the 
existing phones and installed new ones. They also repaired and cleaned the switching devices 
thus making the system more efficient. According to William Dillon, Housing Director, 'The 
deal was fantastic! These guys even built their own repair equipment. We got the system fixed 
for several thousand dollars less than our best commercial bid."

---------------------------------------------------

Page 2—THE TARTAN-Tuesday, January 16, 1973
editors note
Final words on my worst academic experience:While cleaning out and organizing my room in preparation for the new semester, I came upon an old H&SS student evaluation form of mine that rekindled 
feelings of utter frustration and anger inside me. Not that I had done particularly well in the course and deserved a good evaluation, or that I didn’t expect to receive a bad evaluation under the circumstances. The course had been disappointing, the teacher had been disappointing, and my performance had been disappointing. I 
fully expected the same feeling of diisappointment I felt to show up in the 
evaluation.
What surprised and infuriated me and what continues to infuriate me is that after making no small pains to try to convince the teacher of my sincerity and good 
intentions, I received what could be called a vicious attack on my personality, manners and attitude, complete with broad generalizations that were based on an appallingly small amount of evidence. For example: “Thinks he’s a writer, but in no one’s wildest imaginings would he ever be mistaken for that. ” - Ouch! Or “One of the ‘getting it all together ’ bunch that didn’t even come close”. - Good grief!!
Any evaluation of a student’s performance is going to be affected to some extent by the teacher’s personal biases and reactions to the student’s personality. It 
is unrealistic to suppose that any teacher is or should be completely impartial. The best evaluations are those in which a teacher states his personal feelings and then 
gives as detailed a critique as possible of a student’s academic performance.
After all, what is the purpose of student evaluations? Are they supposed to provide constructive criticism to help the student gain an overall perspective on his 
performance in the course or are they supposed to be a permanent record of rhetorical gems expressing a completely subjective overall impression of the student himself?
When the issue of grading was being discussed last spring, it was said that one of the most promising aspects of H&SS was the student evaluation system. In most cases this is true. It’s very gratifying to receive a detailed, well-thought-out evaluation from a teacher, whether it’s a good one or a bad one. I realize that there are many understandable problems that face the faculty. I can sympathize with the teacher who is supposed to evaluate someone who he’s never talked to and whose name he can barely remember. I also realize that writing detailed evaluations can 
become tedious after a while, especially if a class is particularly large. This editorial isn’t a plea to do the impossible, it’s just a reminder that from the student’s point 
of view, the time taken by a faculty member to write a good, fairly objective critical evaluation, when it is possible, is usually worthwhile.
This applies to favorable evaluations as well as unfavorable ones. To receive an evaluation that simply says that a student’s performance was “good” is naturally 
not as gratifying and doesn’t help the student nearly as much as an explanation of 
why the performance was good. And it doesn’t help the student to be told that he 
is simply a “poor student”. It doesn’t do him any good to be told that his life is 
misdirected, that he should improve his manners and change his attitude.
Stephen Saunders
Mm/m
IVWV I REMEMBER NOT $O|_0NG AGO - WHEN If W/VS ONLY SO HIGH.
Editor in Chief...............Steve Saunders
Business Manager...............Alice Bright
Special Editors......................Jeff Ganek
Mina Gerall 
Special Consultant . . . . Steve Jurman
News Editor.........................Gary Singer
Features Editors...............David Guida
Shelley Burhans 
News and Features Staff . . .Chris Braun 
Gary Bronheim, Chris Brown 
Craig Collins, Steve Correll 
Brandon Dula, Laurel Felix 
Mark Field, Anne Friedman 
Greg Fulton, Mike Hill 
Chris Infante, Joan McCluskey 
Greg McKenna, Robin Reiter 
Debbie Siegel, John Spalding 
EHen Steiber
Political Editor......................Jim Slivka
Photography Editors .... Ed Levine
Elliot Arons 
Photography Staff .... Henry Collins 
Bruce Edelston, Andrea Friedman 
Carl Grefenstette, Dan Goldstein 
Nick Lardas, Greg Nickel 
John Shettel, Frank Stein
Entertainment Editor . . Stephen Hamm 
Entertainment Staff . . Terry Caywood 
Nonie Dempsey, Fred Gormley 
Arnie Karr, Susan Klein 
Steve Perkins, Paula Shubock 
Julio Vera
Sports Editor ......................Jim Brogan
Sports Staff.............................Dan Buis
Jeff Englund, Roger Geddes 
D.R. Sullivan
Layout.......................... Erica Gees
Steve Jurman, Karla Salvi
Copy Staff ..........................Mina Gerall
Sandy Preuhs, Cyndy Schmidt
PubKshed every Tuesday during the aca­
demic year at Carnegie-Mellon University, 
Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania, 15213. Editorial 
and Business offices in Skibo 50, Carnegie- 
Mellon University. Telephone (412) 
682-4557.
Letters:
Editor:
Censorship isn’t necessarily a distasteful 
term to the American press, nor is it strict­
ly a governmental tool. Censorship has ex­
isted in the U.S. since Boston Tea Party 
days, and individual censorship among 
independent newspaper chains was largely 
responsible for doing away with the attro- 
cities of the era of YellowJournalism. In­
ternal censorship thrives everyday when it 
is decided which story will headline the 
front page, or which film footage will be 
shown first on the six o’clock news.
Therefore, it is an odd predicament 
indeed when the Administration com­
mences to censor censorship. Yet this, in 
actuality, is the current situation as the 
Nixon Administration wages an all out war 
against the networks for their so called 
left-wing liberal biases, and for the implicit 
commentary invoked when more time is 
devoted to bombing destruction in Viet­
nam than to Henry Kissinger alighting from 
a car in Paris.
The Radio Act of 1927 set down the 
precedent for government censorship: 
“Nothing in this Act shall be understood or 
construed to give the liscencing authority 
(i.e. the FCC) the power of censorship over 
radio communications or signals transmit­
ted by any radio station, and no regula­
tions or conditions shall be promulgated or 
fixed by the liscencing authority which 
shall interfere with the right of free speech 
by means of radio communications.” This 
was extended in the Communications Act 
of 1934 to include television.
Nevertheless, the Administration has 
recently seen fit to interfere with this 
doctrine, and has, through the pronounce­
ments of Clay T. Whitehead, director of 
the Whitehouse Office of Telecommuni­
cations, dealt network communications a 
heavy and public blow. There has always 
been much concern in organizations of the 
media towards what is described as their 
“liberal” trend. The networks, in fact, have 
even found opposition within their own 
ranks by such affiliates as WWJ-TV Detroit, 
which offers a thrice weekly program 
rebutting many of the networks biases. 
Despite this and other instances (The press 
has voluntarily offered to set up an in­
dependent council of evaluation.) White­
head feels that the internal censorhsip is 
not enough. He has proposed a bill to 
Congress which will hold stations directly 
responsible for the information imparted 
by their affiliated network.
The vociferous concern that this has 
generated among broadcasters deals not so 
much with the content of the proposal, but 
with the bill itself which, if passed, will 
transfer a power currently held by the FCC
more directly in the grasp of the executive 
branch. Many journalists see this as a 
warning that the Whitehouse is planning to 
substitute it’s own judgement of what is 
news and fair comment, for that of the 
public and TV broadcasters.
Whitehead, in reply, charged the 
American Society of Newspaper Editors, 
who made this claim, with making 
statements clearly erroneous and clearly 
misinformed. FCC Commissioner Nicholas 
Johnson additionally commented that 
since the U.S. has no national newspaper, 
the network news departments are the only 
institutions capable of taking on the 
President. This is why Mr. Nixon is 
focusing on these departments, trying to 
make them less powerful.
We might point out one striking thing to 
Mssrs. Johnson, Whitehead, et. al., that, 
while autocratic politicians have not been 
unknown to supress opposition and take 
over governmental control, in no instances 
has a network or news medial succeeded, 
nor probably even desired to succeed, in 
such a goal.
It seems irresponsbile and ill-conceived 
of Mr. Nixon to demand that the press 
stand by and pat him on the back. The 
press has traditionally served it’s govern­
ment as a loyal opposition. This is a 
responsibility placed in their hands by the 
first amendment, a litany memorized by 
school children. How many times have we 
pointed to the instance of the repressed 
media in some foreign country as being 
symbolic of, or unique to , fascistic and 
malevolent governments?
As inauguration day rolls around we are 
reminded of the President’s oath to uphold 
and preserve the Constitution of the 
United States. Might we not ask this term, 
just whose Constitution Mr. Nixon has in 
mind?Sue Zimmerman News Director WRCT/9
Editor:
Those of us to whom the Students’ 
Gallery has given pleasure will certainly 
feel regret if it passes away. It is difficult to 
believe, however, that our numbers can be 
as large as your front page story implied.
Use and gain from the Gallery might be 
increased by: informal explanatory conver­
sations in the Gallery with artists and 
faculty; lower prices, to encourage the 
growth of a market among undergraduate 
and graduate students, many of whom 
soon will be affluent enough to replace a 
Stones poster with a painting or print, if 
they got hooked on the art-buying habit; 
an introductory course on art open to any 
student in the university, so that more 
members of the CMU community could 
learn how to secure the pleasure which the 
Gallery can provide.Richard L. Schoenwald Professor of History

---------------------------------------------------

THE TARTAN—Tuesday, January 16, 1973—Page 3
We regret the passing away of Richard N. Skirpan who died from a 
sudden heart attack on December 20, 1972. Richard was a fifth year 
student in C.I.T. M.E.G. He resided at 46 Laurel Ridge, Coraopolis, 
Pennsylvania with his wife Louise, who is studying at CMU, and three 
children.
H&SS Placements
S FRESHMAN OPINION POLL
••,EDITOR’S NOTE In preparation for a investigative research project which the tTARTAN is currently conducting, we would appreciate it if all freshmen (or any Xother students, for that matter) would take a few moments and fill out the £following form.Do not include your name. The results of this and other investi­gative projects will be published in future editions of the TARTAN.•
•
•PLEASE MAIL THIS COMPLETED FORM TO THE TARTAN, ROOM50 SKIBO •OR DROP IT OFF IN PERSON.
by Shelley Burhans
Discontent has been expressed on cam­
pus recently concerning H&SS placements 
and the availability of information dealing 
with these. After students expressed the 
feeling to Dean Steinberg (of H&SS) that 
more could be done with advice and con­
tacts, he called a meeting with Placements 
officer Mary Lou Haugh and Student Ad­
visory Committee representatives on 
December 1. The general consensus of part­
icipants rested in that “point of contact” 
must be attempted through corporation 
representatives coming to campus and that, 
ultimately, the responsibility for job place­
ment lies with the individual student.
Members of SAC were told by Miss 
Haugh that there are many jobs which 
H&SS people don’t know exist, a number 
of them with corporations. Mr. Russ Brig- 
nano of the English Department indicated, 
as well, that many corporations don’t real­
ize that “there are some highly qualified 
writers and thinkers in H&SS.” Persons in­
volved in the issue felt that this is due, in 
part, to the tradition of emphasis on the 
CMU campus and to not “publishing” the 
H&SS school.
The feeling was also prevalent that 
Placements is very much handicapped in 
having a limited number of officers, thus 
frustrating the problem of communicating 
with and counseling students. Coupled 
with the inherent difficulties of a job mar­
ket which involves “two or three person” 
positions (as opposed to a market such as 
engineering, which calls for professionals 
“by the dozens”) which renders, the hiring 
of recruiters ill-worth a corporation’s in­
vestment, these facts relegate much of the 
responsibility for job placement to stu­
dents, and to the efforts of the individual 
student.
Said Miss Haugh, “We are trying very 
hard to open up the field, and to get
Activities to 
be Audited
The finance committee announces its 
annual audit of student activities will be 
held at the end of January. The finance 
chairman, Tanya Allmond, will notify the 
business manager of each student- 
government-funded activity in the next 
week to set particular times for each.
The authority for this audit comes from 
the fiscal outline approved by the senate 
November 12, 1970. It is meant to insure 
responsible use of student government 
money. If the finance committee finds a 
group’s spending procedures to be 
irresponsible, it can recommend the senate 
to freeze that activity’s appropriation.
Each business manager will be expected 
to give about a ten minute presentation, 
preferably using an overhead projector 
which the committee will provide. In 
addition, one handout for the finance 
committee members will be expected. This 
should list four columns of figures in the 
same order as the ‘72-‘73 approved budget, 
with accounting numbers for all categories. 
Specifically, these four should be: I)
approved ‘71-‘72 budget 2) actual expendi­
tures ‘71-‘72 3) approved ‘72-‘73 budget 
and 4) actual expenditures first semester o*'
people to come to the campus for H&SS 
recruitment.” Brought to light at the meet­
ing, however, was the fact that discon­
tented students had never been to the 
Placements office. Said Dean Steinberg, 
“For a person looking fbr a job, Place­
ments should be the first stop.”
He expressed concern about student a- 
pathy in campus communication and in 
their own affairs, calling to attention the 
recent “Decision-Making Game” arranged 
on campus. “Student Government wanted 
this last year; I went to New York to 
arrange it and letters were sent to 160 
freshmen, as well as to all University de­
partments. Eight students signed up.” In 
terms of job placements, he felt it import­
ant that students themselves approach the 
different companies.
Dr. Schoeffer, Chairman of the History 
Department, indicated that placement dif­
ficulties here are somewhat alleviated in 
that, of graduating seniors, approximately 
50% go on to graduate work (in business, 
law, and education) and one-third are in 
the Teacher Training option where “we 
pretty much place our own students.” 
According to Dr. Eastman, Chairman of 
the English Department, the picture here is 
similar.Imminent plans rest in that SAC will 
arrange a meeting with Mr. Gerry KJeinman 
of the Alumnae Referral Service and with 
Miss Haugh, where they plan to create a 
newsletter including information as to 
what the Placements Office can do and has 
available. The possibility is being invest­
igated of allotting a specific room in Baker 
Hall, which would be student directed, 
where Placements literature concerning 
careers and positions would be made 
readily available to students. Plans are also 
being made to send newsletters to various 
corporations publicizing the school of 
H&SS and what it has to offer.
\THE RESPONSES TO THE FOLLOWING QUESTIONS ARE BASED ON A ¡SCALE OF 1 to 5, FIVE BEING THE MOST POSITIVE RESPONSE AND 1* BEING THE MOST NEGA TIVE RESPONSE. Please circle the appropriate number.•
?
1.
My courses are generally (very poor T 2 3 4 5 excellent).
• 2.
My instructors are generally (very poor 12 3 4 5 excellent).
3.
The social (non-academic) atmosphere at CMU is (poor 1 2 3 4 5 very good).
4.
Thepossiblity of my dropping out or transferring at the end of this semester is 
(none at all 1 2 3 4 5 definite).
5.
My impression of CMU as received from Admissions Office information iscorelable 
*to my experience here (not at all 1 2 3 4 5 completely).
6.
When I applied to CMU I was (not at all 1 2 3 4 5 very well) informed about the 
different colleges to which I applied.
7.
In terms of achieving my educational goals CMU will (be of no assistance 12 345 
be perfect).
8.
In terms of the academic pressure, I feel that CMU is (easy 1 2 3 4 5 overburden­
ing).
9.
My major is---------------------------------------.
10.
Since September, I am (less sure 1 2 3 4 5 more sure) of my career choice.
11.
I have (maintained/changed) my original educational objectives.
12.
I feel that I have enough academic freedom to investigate my interests and abilities 
(none 12 3 4 5 very sufficient).
Class------------------------------------School-
‘72-‘73.
The up-to-date record of individual 
transactions should be brought, so that any 
question which may arise can be answered.
Mars has just been put into jars and 
studied closely. The result, says the 
January SCIENCE DIGEST, is that 
scientists believe life could very well exist 
on that planet. The article describes re­
search proving forms of life can survive at 
+ 170 to 400 degree temperatures, in 
atmospheres devoid of oxygen and filled 
with lethal radiation. By duplicating in bell 
jars these conditions and other factors 
known to be peculiar to the Martian en­
vironment, scientists have concluded that 
the chances of finding life on the red 
planet are better than fair.
Everyone knows about Columbus, but 
do you know of anyone who beat him 
there? A group of amateur archaeologists 
say they do and offer evidence drawn from 
a hilltop in New Hampshire covered with 
strange stone structures. The place is called 
“Mystery Hill” and it was built, the 
amateurs say, by a European culture 4,000 
years ago. Professional archaeologists who 
have looked it over say it was built more 
like 200 years ago by an eccentric farmer. 
Both have scientific evidence for what they 
say and both sides air their views in the 
January SCIENCE DIGEST.
WITH THE COMING OF THE NEW SEMESTER 
COMES THE NEED FOR AN EVEN LARGER AND MORE DIVERSE 
TARTAN STAFF
news staff - feature staff - entertainment staff 
photography staff - sports editor - sports staff 
layout staff - advertising manager - technical writers
ALL DEPARTMENTS IN NEED OF ADDITIONAL COMPETENT MEMBERS 
COME TO OUR FULL STAFF MEETING 
THURSDAY, JANUARY 18 at 4:30 P.M. 
IN THE TARTAN OFFICE, ROOM 50 SKIBO.
NOTE TO TARTAN STAFF: 
There will be a full staff meeting on Thursday, January 18 at 4:30 in the 
TARTAN office. Please try to attend since this will be a very important 
organizational meeting. If attendance is impossible, please call your editor 
before Thursday.

---------------------------------------------------

Page 4—THE TARTAN-Tuesday, January 16, 1973
EDITORS NOTE: The following is a list of your student advisory com­mittee (SAC) representatives, published as a service by the TARTAN in cooperation with the Faculty Senate.
STUDENT REPRESENTATIVES
STUDENT ADVISORY COMMITTEES
AMS r
Edward Abramson3rd year
Edwin Mihallo3rd year
John Sisson3rd year
Roy Somogye3rd year
Drew Hannah5th year
Robert Head5th year
Rodger Knox5th year
Russell Rubin6th year
ARCHITECTURE:
*Dale Laurin 5th year
BIOLOGICAL SCIENCES:
Yale Mitchell2nd year
Jeffery Elliott2nd year
BIOTECHNOLOGY:
*Conrad Wall6th year
CHEMICAL ENG.-Undergrad.
George Newman2nd year
Raymond Geis2nd year
Martin Francis2nd year
Carol Nemetz2nd year
Robert Weinheimer3rd year
Diane Biel3rd year
Regina Deluca3rd year
J. Erwin5th year
Kathy Dopkin5th year
Jay R. Simmons5th year
Graduate Division
Joanne Schneider6th year
John Tao6th year
Jaime Lopez6th year
Arnold Millard6th year
Bill Ludwico6th year
CHEMISTRY:
D. Dimitroff1st year
W. D. Hoffman2nd year
S. J. Trakas2nd year
C. Du Breuil3rd year
J. S. Merola3rd year
L. F. McMahon5th year
C. Richardson5th year
J. A. Cowfer6th year
R. L. Klobuchar6th year
CIVIL ENGINEERING:
Dan Streyle2nd year
George Kane3rd year
Charles Ibbs5th year
Mark Lang6th year
COMPUTER SCIENCE:
*Mady Bauer6th year
DESIGN:
Marc Fortin1st year
Miriam Whitworth1st year
Richard Felver2nd year
Jeffrey Kippax2nd year
Allen Champion3rd year
Patti Goldberg3rd year
Andrew Myer5th year
Janice Olsen5th year
DRAMA:
Paulette Calderon2nd year
Wm. Miller2nd year
Sheldon Epps5th year
Mary Warren5 th year
Mike Rafkin6th year
Andy Wolk6th year
ELECTRICAL ENGINEERING:
Keith Butler2nd year
Tony Maddox2nd year
Ken Knowles3rd year
David Mahacsek3rd year
* James McWilliams3rd year
Pete Michaelson3rd year
Sharon Knapp5 th year
Peter Rapp5 th year
Peter Thompson5th year
Karen Wellnitz5th year
Frank Quick6th year
ENGLISH:
David Cates1st year
Joan McCluskey1st year
*Nancy Kennard2nd year
Mawain Rolla2nd year
Barbara Cortina3rd year
Ruth Potts3rd year
Terry Stern5th year
HISTORY:
Pam Meil2nd year
Rick Donner2nd year
Marjorie Nelson3rd year
Tim Taylor3rd year
Meg Jacobson5th year
Jim McCurley5th year
Rajan Bharvani5th year
MATHEMATICS:
*Carol Junewicz5th year
MECHANICAL ENGINEERING:
Ron Lasser2nd year
Tom Mutschler2nd year
Evan Hutchinson3rd year
Don Short3rd year
Fred JDahlinger5th year
Larry Ross5th year
Hal Bloom6th year
John Waszczak6th year
METALLURGY:
Samuel G. Bruce1st year
Patrick J. McDonough2nd year
James F. Jantz3rd year
Michael P. Shearer3rd year
Harry W. Dodds5th year
John E. Klein5th year
Terry Cox6th year
MODERN LANGUAGES:
*Rose Marie Sullen5 th year
MUSIC:
Maria Caruso2nd year
Mary Beth Lewis2nd year
*Thomas Garber5th year
Jeffrey Griglak5 th year
PAINTING & SCULPTURE:
Raymond Scholz1st year
Peter Ambrose2nd year
Kathy Sabec2nd year
Betsy Piez5th year
Philip Rostek6th year
PHYSICS:
J. Withrow2nd year
R. Potter3rd year
R. Schwartz3rd year
T. Silvis3rd year
G. Bardy5th year
J. Dietrich5th year
D. Detwiller6th year
D. Weintraub6th year
PSYCHOLOGY:
Martha Lisberger2nd year
Richard Lambb5th year
Glenn Lea5th year
Barbara Hanusa6th year
STATISTICS:
*Lawrence Cahoon6th year
SOCIAL RELATIONS:
Richard Green1 st year
Kay Nordstrom1 st year
Julius Bremer2nd year
Louise Kadish2nd year
David Deutsch3rd year
Frank Napoli3rd year
Marilyn Turner3rd year
Robert Moroz5th year
Rebecca Warner5th year
*Student Coordinator
Student Fare 
In Danger
The Easter and summer plans of many 
CMU students to travel home will be 
severely affected by the elimination of dis­
count youth fares announced Dec. 7 by the 
Civil Aeronautics Board (CAB). The 
National Student Lobby (NSL) and senior 
citizen groups are seeking to reverse the 
CAB decision through Congressional 
action.
CAB voted 3-2 that domestic youth 
fares are unjustly discriminatory and 
should no longer be permitted. The 
decision implied the same fate for inter­
national youth fafes.
“The wolf is at the door,” said NSL 
Executive Director Layton Olson. 
“Although CAB has set no specific date for^ 
terminating youth fares pending a hearing 
early in 1973, on the effect of such a 
move, the discounts could very well end as 
early as March.”
“Since Congress can prevent CAB from 
eliminating youth fares, students should 
ask Congressmen Harley Staggers (D-W. 
Va.), John Jarmen (D—Okla.) and Sam 
Devine (R-Ohio) to insure that the House 
Interstate and Foreign Commerce 
Committee sends the youth fare question 
to the House floor during the first half of
1973,” said Olson. “Students can also ask 
their own congressmen and senators to 
vote for youth fares when the question 
comes up.”
New Hours for 
Carnegie Inst
Mr. James M. Walton, President of the 
Board of Trustées of Carnegie Institute and 
Carnegie Library, announces a new 
schedule of hours for the Museum of Art 
and Museum of Natural History. Effective 
in February, 1973. The museums will be 
closed every Monday.
The decision to close on Monday was 
necessary to cut expenses, but the Institute 
will continue to be open on Tuesday nights 
to make the facilities of the museums 
available to students and others who are 
unable to visit during the day. Special 
Tuesday night member programs are 
planned for the spring season, and the 
public is invited to enjoy the museum ex­
hibits in the galleries which are less 
crowded than during the week-end. In 
addition, Sunday visitors will have an extra 
hour as the museums will now open at 
noon.
The Institute’s carriage drive entrance 
on Forbes Avenue will be open on Monday 
to provide an access through Architecture 
Hall to Carnegie Library whose hours re­
main unchanged.
The Institute cafeteria will be open for 
dinner service on Tuesday and Thursday 
evenings from 4 to 7 p.m. through March.
Carnegie Institute schedule of hours is: 
Sunday 12 to 5 p.m.
Closed Monday
Tuesday 10 a.m. to 9 p.m. through May 
Wednesday through Saturday 10 a.m. to 5
Gallery Opening
CONTINUED FROM PAGE 1
work of three CMU artists is displayed in
the back room. Bruce Younger showed a
series of comics entitled “Fusion”, Doug
Felley displayed watercolors, and Chris
Prandoni exhibited collages and electronic
sculpture.
The show will continue through January
20. Gallery hours are 11 a.m.-8 p.m. 
Tuesday through Friday, 11 a.m.-5 p.m. 
Saturday. Closed Sunday and Monday.
Ice City
CONTINUED FROM PAGE 1
dents will be able to live and work com­
fortably.
In all, about 40 or 50 buildings will be 
constructed, with structures being adapted 
or eliminated and rebuilt as need dictates. 
At least one building will be two stories 
tall.
Structures will be built by spraying 
water onto movable metal frames or onto 
inflatable forms which can be deflated and 
removed after the water freezes. Auto­
mated means of distributing the water, 
through computer-operated machines, will 
also be used.
The project, Hartkopf said, will give 
architecture students first-hand experience 
with new and largely untried architectural 
concepts. The organizers and students also 
hope that the experiments will spur int­
erest in funding of further research into 
such building materials.
Material gathered during experiments at 
the workshop will be used for continued 
research, and as part of a course to be 
taught by Hartkopf at CMU this spring.
Grad Program
CONTINUED FROM PAGE 1
applied science areas which are not covered
by any of the traditional departments.”
“For example, we currently offer a 
measurement and control course, which is 
a core course developing skills which can 
be applied in a number of areas. The course 
emphasizes laboratory work, the use and 
development of modern measuring instru­
ments, and the coupling of measuring in­
struments to computers.”
Some of the studies being pursued by 
the 11 students now in the program in­
clude nuclear medicine, electro-optics, radi­
ology, mathematics and management, and 
physics educaiton. An option is also of­
fered in polymer science. Of course, it is up 
to each student to devise his own program.
Professor Langer states: “The program 
can be a terminal degree but the student 
still has the option to go on and get a Ph.D. 
We are also offering the degree as a 
five-year program, in which the student 
does three years of undergraduate work 
and two years of graduate work. I’d like to 
point out that we will continue to offer 
regular master’s programs within the de­
partments in the college.”
MIS has taken several steps to insure 
that a high quality is maintained in the 
program. Only students who would nor­
mally be accepted in the graduate school 
are admitted to the program. A Graduate 
Progtams Committee must approve student 
programs and options. Further, each stu­
dent has a three-man faculty supervising 
committee which judges the student’s ful­
fillment of the program.
¡REMEMBER TO FILL OUT THE? 
•“FRESHMAN OPINION POLL”J 
•AND RETURN IT TO THEj 
•TARTAN OFFICE EITHER IN?
• PERSON OR BY CAMPUS MAIL • 
IBEFORE FRIDAYJANUARY 19*
• 1973.• •
B’NAI B’RITH HILLEL-JEWISH 
UNIVERSITY CENTER CAFE TEL 
AVIV CHANGES TO THURSDAYS 
IN 1973 11:30 a.m. to 1:30 p.m. 
Beginning January 11. Hillel Dining 
Room 3rd floor Y-IKC Buildings 
LUNCH MUSIC FILM

---------------------------------------------------

THE TARTAN—Tuesday, January 16, 1973—Page 5
Announcements:
This semester the Activities Board will
again present as Friday night entertainment 
the weekly Coffeehouse at the Skibo Staff 
Cafeteria (or Kilte Cafe). Another semester 
of local as well as the nationa-l coffeehouse 
circuit entertainment will be offered as 
well as the usual free fruit (from bananas 
to bagels?) and beverages. Some of the 
artists who will perform include Coster, 
Welling, and Walach, Bill Bly, Harry Waller, 
Sharon Davis, Phil Buller and Steve 
Mullaney. If you are interested in 
entertaining at or helping in the presenting 
of the weekly coffee houses, you can leave 
a message in the Coffeehouse mailbox at 
the Information Desk.
The Film Workshop will hold its first
meeting of the semester on Wednesday, 
January 17 at 7 p.m. in Baker Hall 232F. 
New equipment will be demonstrated, and 
experimental and workshop films will be 
screened. Open to the public.
College seniors will have an opportunity to
compete in the very popular Federal Ser­
vice Entrance Examination (FSEE) when it 
is given on a walk-in basis at our campus on 
January 17, 1973 in Baker Hall room 245 
at 1:00 p.m. Open to seniors and graduates 
in any academic major the program is 
appropriate for students in all curricula ex­
cept Engineering, Physical Sciences, 
Accounting and a limited number of other 
technical fields.
Pi Kappa Alpha FRATERNITY is holding
a CHARITY Casino Party Saturday^ 
January 20th 9 to 12 p.m. The Party will 
be held at the FRATERNITY house, 1079 
Morewood Ave. Open to everyone.
Spring Carnival ... Optimists wishing an
early start and just insane with desire to 
build a booth may contact the CCCP, box 
103, Skibo or Rm. 18 Skibo.
Barbara Ward, author, editor and economic
interpreter, will speak at Pittsburgh's 
Carnegie Music Hall, at 8:30 p.m. Wed­
nesday, January 17. Miss Ward's 
appearance, sponsored by Ketchum, 
MacLeod & Grove, Inc., is the second lec­
ture in the 1972-73 "Man and Ideas" series 
arranged by the Women's Committee, 
Museum of Art, Carnegie Institute. The 
title of her talk will be "Basic Conditions 
for Tomorrow's World."
There will be a faculty-student convocation
on Thursday, January 25 at 12:30 p.m. in 
Exhibition Hall. It will feature Grant 
Johannesen in an informal program of 
piano music.
On January 18, 1973 there will be a
meeting of the student members of the 
H&SS College Council to discuss the goals 
of the college. ALL STUDENTS IN H&SS 
ARE URGED TO ATTEND. The meeting 
will be held in Dean Steinberg's office. Any 
students attending the meeting are re­
quested to pick up a copy of the goals 
from Dean Steinberg's secretary "before” 
attending the meeting. PLEASE COME.
On Tuesday, January 16 at 7:30 p.m. a
There will be a meeting of Coordinators of
Student Advisory Committees in the 
Colleges of CIT, MIS, and GSIA on 
Tuesday, January 23, 1973, at 12:30 p.m. 
in the Faculty Senate Conference Room, 
BH 152.
Please plan to attend this meeting where 
work of the departmentalSACs will be dis­
cussed. If you are unable to attend, please 
appoint another member of your Student 
Advisory Committee to represent your 
department at the meeting. We would like 
to have the name of any department that is 
unable to be represented at the January 23 
meeting so that we can re-schedule that 
department's representative for another 
date. Please call the Senate Office, ext. 464 
if your department needs to be re­
scheduled.
COMMUTERS and OFF-CAMPUS
RESIDENTS - The Housing Office 
announces the availability of several choice 
apartments, co-op, co-ed and dormitory 
spaces for second semester. These spaces 
may be rented by the day, week, month or 
year. Stop by the Housing Office and ask 
about our reasonable rates,
Mr. Donald Wilkins, Organist and Choir­
master, Calvary Episcopal Church, will be 
the guest organist at the next free organ 
recital of the season in Carnegie Music Hall, 
Oakland, on Sunday afternoon, January
21, at 3 o'clock.
On Tuesday, January 16 at 7:30 p.m. a
program and ecumenical service for the vic­
tims of the Vietnamese War will be held at 
the University and City Ministries at Belle- 
fied and Fifth Avenues in Oakland. The 
program will focus on the plight of the 
victims of the war and in particular those 
persons who are political prisoners in the 
numerous jails in South Vietnam. The pro­
gram and service is biing jointly sponsored 
by the Friends Peace Center, the Social 
Action Committee of the Community of 
Reconciliation, the Thomas Merton Center, 
and the Public Affairs Committee of the 
First Unitariar) Church. Everyone is invited 
to attend and participate.
Veterans interested in furthering their
education can now take advantage of a new 
and comprehensive program at Carnegie- 
Mellon University. The Western Penn­
sylvania Veterans Educational Service 
Center has been established to help area 
Veterans further their education through 
high school equivalency programs and 
college preparatory classes. The Center also 
offers individualized counseling to help 
Veterans with specific educational pro­
blems. For more information, contact the 
Veterans Educational Service Center at 
C-MU, 621-2600.
There will be a meeting of Coordinators of
Student Advisory Committees in the 
Colleges of H&SS, CFA, and SUPA on 
Tuesday, January 30, 1973, at 12:30 p.m. 
in the Faculty Senate Conference Room, 
BH152. Please plan to attend this meeting 
where the work of the departmental SACs 
will be discussed. If you, yourself, are 
unable to attend, please appoint another 
member of your Student Advisory 
Committee to represent your department 
at the meeting. We would like to have the 
name of any department that is unable to 
be represented at the January 30 meeting 
so that we can re-schedule that depart­
ment's representative for another date. 
Please call the Senate Office, ext. 464, if 
your department needs to be re­
scheduled.
Applications for the Vira I. Heinz Travel
Award are now available in the Financial 
Aid Office, 210 Warner Hall. This grant, 
established in 1967, will enable a woman 
student to study and travel abroad between 
her junior and senior years. The purpose of 
this $1,500 award "is to have an articulate 
and pierceptive young lady gain first-hand 
knowledge of international understanding 
and share her experience with other 
members of the college community upon 
her return." Junior women interested in 
being considered for this award must Sub­
mit an application to the Financial Aid 
Office by February 7, 1973. A winner and 
three alternates will be selected and 
announced before the end of February. 
The application includes sections on 
itinerary, budget, course of study, and 
reasons for desiring to participate in the 
program. Financial need will not be a cri­
terion. However, if it becomes a factor, the 
applicant should discuss the situation with 
the Director of Financial Aid.
Alpha Phi Omega the SERVICE fraternity
would like to invite everyone to an open 
meeting to see what we do besides C-Book, 
the Faculty Course Evaluation, and the 
Book Exchange. Bring yourself and a few 
friends to room 45, Skibo, Thursday, 7:30 
p.m. Refreshments will be served.
Dr. Richard Cyert will appear live on
WRCT (900 AM) on Thursday, January 18 
from 6-7 p.m. and will answer phone calls 
from students. Dial 621-9728 or 01 on the 
Morewood house phone.
Dog owners in Pennsylvania can't complain
that their 1973 dog licenses's cost will send 
them to the bow-wows financially. And 
inflation won't bite them in this respect 
either. The price continues the same this 
year as when the state license requirement 
was instituted, more than half a century 
ago, in 1921, according to State Agri­
culture Secretary Jim McHale. Dogs six 
months or older must be sporting the new 
tags by January 15, 1973 for compliance 
with state law. Licenses are $2.20 for 
female dogs and $1.20 for male dogs and 
spayed female dogs. Licenses are sold by 
the State through the County Treasurer's 
Offices.
CITIZENS OF THE TRI-STATE area will
join in a massive, peaceful, legal Inaugural 
Day march to demand: Sign the Peace 
Treaty, No More Bpmbing, Cut Off All 
Funds for the War, Immediate, Total, Un­
conditional Withdrawal from Indochina. 
Chartered Pittsburgh buses will leave from 
the Oakland Carnegie Library parking lot 
(Forbes and Bigelow)at 5:30 a.m. on Satur­
day, January 20th. Buses will return from
D.C. the same evening at 6 p.m. Round trip 
fare is $12.50. Send your reservations in 
immediately. For further information, 
please contact PEACE AND FREEDOM 
CENTER, Room 203, 5530 Penn Ave., 
Pittsburgh, Pa. 15206 (Phone: 362-9000).
Late applications for Film Festival grants
will be accepted until all available funds 
have been allocated (if they have not been 
already). Applications should be sent to: 
The Film Workshop, Skibo 103, Campu§ 
Mail.
Classified Ads«
For rent: 3-speed bicycles and compost
refrigerators-ideal for dormitories and 
apartments. Inquire at 279-7951 after 7 
p.m. only.
amimimiMinminimimiiiniinimmmniwwinmiiinmmnmiimmiinmnminiiniiinimmmimnmnniimmiiiminiiinimiimmmit£
University 
Coffeehouse 
Fridays—9-1
This Week: Jan. 17thW.C. FIELDS,LAUREL and HARDY
NO ADMISSION CHARGE
Rodef Shalom—Basement—Corner 5th A Morewood 
(enter from parking lot)
iwiiimimiiimiimmiimmmmmmiiiimuimimimiiiiimiiimimiiiiiiiiiiiiiimiiiitiiiimimiiiiiiiiiiiwiiiiiiiimiiiiiiiiiimiiiiiiiiiiiimiii
Looking For A Career? 
BECOME A MONTESSORI TEACHER
MONTESSORI CENTER OF MICHIGAN 
2490 AIRPORT ROAD 
DRAYTON PLAINS, MICHIGAN 48020 
313/673-0007
SUMMER STUDY, GRADUATE AND 
UNDERGRADUATE PROGRAMS, 
COLLEGE CREDITS
asite fos Bsochuse 
Appsoved and Affiliated Ry 
Amesican Montessosi Society

---------------------------------------------------

Page 6—THE TARTAN—Tuesday, January 16, 1973
THEATRE
ENTERTAINMENT
A Talk With Gene Feist
by Susan N. Klein
One dismal December afternoon I sat 
talking with Gene Feist in his petite 
Roundabout Theatre while a carpenter 
hammered away at the set of a play that 
was to open the next week. Feist is the 
producing-director of the 150 seat Round­
about, which he founded in 1966, just 
about a dozen years after graduating from 
the Carnegie-Mellon Drama Department. 
And although his name isn’t on the lips of 
all the folks up at Sardi’s, Feist and his 
company are rapidly gaining their well de­
served recognition and respect as one of 
the most dynamic and important off- 
-Broadway theatre companies in New 
York.
The outgoing and affable Feist spoke 
openly of his days at “Tech”, where he got 
his B.F.A. in direction in 1953. He took his 
masters at NYU.
“ A lot of my professors aré still 
around. Lawrence Carra, Bill Nelson, and 
of course Edith Skinner. As Students we 
pictured the teachers as spending all their 
time deciding who of us to kick out.”
“We were quite an interesting group of 
students. Andy Warhol was there with me. 
Andy was a highly respected and admired 
artist. However, his personality was quite 
different from what you’d expect. He was 
very shy and cuddly very much like a bun­
ny rabbit. In drama there was Sada Thomp­
son, who graduated a couple of years ahead 
of me, and George Peppard, and let’s see, 
who else% Oh yes, Nancy Marchand and
Paul Sparer. There were others, but I have 
trouble remembering the names of people I 
don’t like.”
“The other directors were Bill Ball, who 
is now with the American Conservatory 
Theatre, and Ellis Rabb, who went on to 
found the A.P.A. Repertory Company.”
The set the carpenter was working on 
was being built for “The Play‘s the Thing,” 
a comedy by Ferenc Molnar, written in the 
twenties.
“Molnar was the Neil Simon of his time. 
Everyone knew him. Other playwrights 
would use his name in their plays and 
everyone understood the reference, yet 
now he’s virtually forgotten.”
The Roundabout has no proscenium. It 
consists of a simple, small playing area sur­
rounded on three sides by several rows of 
seats. And the theatre’s location, a super­
market basement, was chosen for its prox­
imity to the apartment Feist inhabits with 
his wife, actress Elizabeth Owens, and their 
two small daughters.
Over the years, Roundabout audiences 
have sampled some of the best loved 
classics of the theatre. The company has 
recently performed “She Stoops to Con­
quer”, “The Master Builder”, “Misalli­
ance”, a highly acclaimed “Uncle Vanya”, 
and there gas even been a place for an all 
male production of “Hamlet”, which Feist 
plans to send on a college tour. In addition, 
the Roundabout sponsors an experimental 
workshop program for young playwrights,
Sights at the gallery Friday night
STUDENT GALLERY
Photos by Ed Levine
Photo Contest at Gallery 
Plus Other Things
by Stephen Hamm
Whenever there’s any kind of contest 
that’s newsworthy, anywhere in the world, 
some reporter invariably disagrees with the 
results. He wants to judge the contest 
himself and assign his own awards. He finds 
that he has this power on the printed page. 
He usually devises awards for the things to 
be judged or for the judges themselves. It 
doesn’t mean a thing.
Here are my awards for the TARTAN 
Photo Contest:
1) First Place for the Ugliest Photo, and 
First Place for Most Mysterious Photo. This 
award goes to Joan Fontaine for her pic­
tures of a bagel sandwich on a chair.
2) First Place for Most Narrative Photo 
and First Place for Most Cliched. This goes 
to Roger Lawrence for his photograph of 
an old man walking away alone with trees 
and grass in the gray barren winter.
3) Second Place for Most Cliched and 
First Place for Most Boring Photograph. 
This award goes to George Bias for his 
picture entitled “Entropy”, a view of aban­
doned chairs and desks in a classroom.
4) First Place for Most Far Out. This 
goes to Laurel Godfrey for her photo of a 
plaster torso leaning against a wall with the 
sun on tiles.
directors, and designers.
“I’d love to work out some kind ot 
apprenticeship program with Carnegie stu­
dents. It would be great to have these fine 
students sent to me.”
“Every single Carnegie drama graduate I 
have ever employed has been wonderfully 
reliable, polished and professional in his 
work. 1 can’t stress enough, however, with 
people who left Carnegie for whatever 
reason, there are usually problems of some 
kind. The ones that don’t graduate never 
measure up as well.”
An Average session at the Roundabout 
costs about SI50,000 to operate, and 
despite the companies 6,000 subscribers, 
Feist usually winds up with a deficit in the 
neighborhood of $40,000.
“I’m obviously not in this for the 
money,” he said with a sly chuckle. “Our 
plays run an absolute minimum of eight 
weeks, hopefully somewhere between eight 
and twelve weeks, depending upon how we 
do at the box office.”
Feist encouraged all the drama students 
to stay at the University and graduate if 
possible. He sais,“Young actors should 
never leave school expecting to get experi­
ence in New York. Places like the A.A.D.A. 
or the A.M.D.A. cannot hold a candle to 
Carnegie. And Lee Strasberg has destroyed 
two generations of actors. The same can be 
said about Stella Adler.
“And I’ll tell you something else,” he 
continued intensely, “What happened to 
John-Michael Tabelak and Steve Schwartz 
was miraculous. These guys are lucky 
enough to have their brilliance appreciated
i BE» Ætk li
5) First Place for the Continental 
Touch. This award goes to Betsey Barth for 
her photos of European proletarians.
6) The Special Award for the Funniest 
Photograph. This goes to Don Rudisill for 
his picture of the entrance of Donner Hall 
superimposed over the entrance to Mar­
garet Morrison Carnegie College.
7) The Pop Art Award of the So What If 
Andy Warhol Was Here Award. This one 
goes to Marsha Pillet for her photograph of 
Coca Cola bottles.
Speaking of Contests, its time again for 
the Miss Allegheny County Pageant. This 
contest is open to women 18 to 28 years of 
age who are high school graduates, have 
never been married and are residents of 
Allegheny County. If you are interested 
call Tom Reichener-921-0893.
“If you have poise, personality, talent, 
and beauty, and meet the requirements, 
then you qualify to enter the MISS 
ALLEGHENY COUNTY PAGEANT, and
at the start of their careers. This is the 
exception to the rule. It can take twenty 
years to become an overnight success.”
The Roundabout and Feist himself have 
received unfavorable critical response only 
once in the company’s existence. So Feist 
has no personal axe to grind with New 
York critics, but he will say that critics 
want theatre to survive. People like Jerry 
Tallmer of the Post, or Allan Wallach of 
Newsday, and even Clive Barnes, are doing 
all they can.”
“I’ll tell you a little story about Clive 
Barnes, though. I once attended an opening 
night with him uptown somewhere. As we 
rode back in the cab, I openly discussed 
my opinion of the production with him. 
The next day I picked up the Times and 
my very words and phrases were scattered 
throughout the review.” Feist shrugged, 
“You can’t blame the guy. He’s got such a 
tight deadline.”
“But criticism isn’t creativity. To sur­
vive, we all must be as creative as possible. 
Creativity is a great power, and as artists, 
it’s all we have.” Everyone on the 
Roundabout staff seems relaxed, con­
fident, and genial. There is a pervading air 
of professionalism about the place, and it is
with this amiable attitude that the com­
pany seems to forego the usual hustle and 
bustle associated with a theatre. The 
Roundabout gleams with a shine of under­
stated elegance and a certain refines aes- 
theticism. And Gene Feist, as the vital 
force in the company, brings pride and 
honor to himself and to the theatrical com­
munity as a whole.
possibly make it to the Miss Pennsylvania 
and Miss America Pageants.”
Enough of this shit.
The Student Gallery. Along with the 
TARTAN Photo Contest, work by three 
artists; Bruce Younger, Chris Prandoni, and 
Doug Felley, is on display at the Gallery. 
Younger is showing his latest comic book, 
“Fusion”. The pages are mounted on mat 
board with glass, and the composition of 
the individual pages becomes highly visible 
in this set up. The comics really look better 
on the wall than in book form. Felley is 
responsible for the water colors, the most 
interesting of which is the picture called, 
“A couple walking in the park come upon 
two lovers”. Prandoni has some collages 
and some sculptures. When you press but­
tons on the sculptures, lights come on. It’s 
nice.
The opening, on Friday night was high­
lighted by a bad punch and the sounds of 
the Glue Band. There was also a mini light 
show by Electric Lights.

---------------------------------------------------

THE TARTAN—Tuesday, January 16, 1973—Page 7
COMANTS RNIIHUD GUL RGIIGYV
Photos by Greg Nickel of Harry Waller and the Alt American 
band playing in the ballroom on Saturday night before the appear­
ance of Coster, Welling and Walach.
RECORD REVIEW
Mo lland
by Terry Caywood
I’m sitting here with the latest albums 
released by Flash, Paul Stookey, Paul But­
terfield, Dione Warwick, Deep Purple, 
Raspberries, and the Beach Boys. Besides 
the Flash cover, what catches my eye is the 
Beach Boys’ “Holland” album with its 
special EP -included. “One and one-half 
long playing records” claims a small liner 
note. Since it’s only been recently that I’ve 
started to dig into the Beach Boys, I can’t 
quite anticipate what I’m going to experi­
ence as I peel away the factory cellophane 
wrap and drop the disc onto the turntable. 
What I reassuringly find is more of the 
juicy harmony, commanding rocking chair 
movement, and just straight-out fine Beach 
Boy melody that we’ve been accustomed 
to hear.
The album is a concept album in the 
same way Elton John’s “Madman” or 
“Tumbleweed” were concept albums. 
“Holland was recorded in Baambrugge, 
Netherlands. For nostalgists there’s the 
nicely done “California Saga”. One finds a 
sweet “Next to You” and a spirited 
“Leaving This Town”. The entire album 
flows so beautifully, that, as with only a 
few other albums I’ve had the pleasure of 
knowing, I perceive the album itself as a 
unit rather than merely a collection of 
four-minute melodies. Two of the stronger 
sections, however, are the album’s opening 
and closing, “Sail on Sailor” and “Funky 
Pretty”. Some delicate flute passages are 
interspersed throughout, and a careful use
of a synthesizer crystalizes the entire 
effort.
As on the previous Beach Boys’ “Carl 
and the Passions/So Tough” album, Ricky 
Fataar and Blondie Chaplin are still with 
the group, lending an ironic middle- 
-American sound to the music that the old 
listener might not expect. Ricky and 
Blondie are two-fifths of a Sount African 
ron’n’roll band called the Flame. The 
Flame’s claim to fame in the States was 
merely a single that died (“See The Light”, 
a powerful rocker that sounded so much 
like the Beatles to startle Badfinger fans), 
though there was a South African released 
album.
As for the special EP included here, 
entitled “Mount Vernon and Fairway”, the 
Boys engage themselves in a whimsical 
fairy tale of a magical transistor radio. In­
nocent and intriguing, the playful excur­
sion was penned by Brian Wilson for the 
most part. A “please listen in the dark” 
recommendation subtitles the work. The 
result is more of a bedtime story than a 
third side to the album, and so it is nice 
that it is on its own separate disc.
“Holland”, for a Beach Boys fan, is a 
vibrant, well-rounded musical progression 
from the previous “Carl and the Passions”. 
For a newcomer to the field, I might sug­
gest a listen to “Surfs Up” and “So 
Tough” first. The latest album is a fine 
extension to the direction the last two 
started out on. In either case, I think you’ll 
find “Holland” a nice place to be.
by E.R.B.
Coster, Welling, and Wallach, a country music group played in the Activities 
Board-sponsored coffeehouses on Thursday and Friday nights. They did a concert 
on Saturday in the ballroom. They used electric fiddle, acoustic guitar, electric bass 
and two-part vocals. They performed mostly original pieces, with a few by their 
friends and Hank Williams.
Tlie music was pleasant and entertaining, and seemed well received by the 
crowd. All in all, it was a nice show.
CLEANJJUI^ SHELVES
up to
50ZGFF
plus
More KNITS (500)*2»»eachcr31br*a«a 
More RWS (1.000) *3.»*eachor3far*1t<» 
More SHIRTS (500) >* each <w Star *11
30 0<¥*£TS*15~to*t9**
212 Oakiflnd ^Avc. Oakland

---------------------------------------------------

Page 8—THE TARTAN—Tuesday, January 16, 1973
The TARTAN Has 
THREE IMPORTANT OPENINGS 
That Need To Be Filled.
SPORTS EDITOR
A reliable person to coordinate and build a sports staff that will offer interesting and infor­
mative coverage of both varsity and intramural sports. Experience preferred, but not neces­
sary.
ADVERTISING MANAGER
A reliable person to coordinate and build an advertising staff. Great possibilities for someone 
interested in making The TARTAN a serious outlet for both local and national ads and increas­
ing our advertising revenue. Possible monetary incentives are being discussed. Experience 
preferred but not necessary.
FILM AND TELEVISION CRITIC
Someone to fill the shoes of the departed Frederick Gormley with a weekly column-review. 
Applications should include a sample article.
We also need ,among other things:
A designer to oversee layout. An expanded and improved news staff. 
Reliable concert reviewers Business Staff.
If any of these positions interest you, come to the
FULL STAFF MEETING
Thursday, January 18, At 4:30 P.M. In Room 50, Skibo.
If you are unable to attend this meeting, then just stop by room 50 sometime and talk to 
someone or leave a message.

---------------------------------------------------

THE TARTAN—Tuesday, January 16, 1973—Page 9
Julian Bond, Georgia legislatorActivities Board 
Brings Julian Bond
CONTINUED FROM PAGE 1
remedial class and twenty for the GED. 
Classes are offered in English, math, social 
studies, the sciences, and communicative 
skills. In addition to this will be guidance 
in studying for the SAT, ACT, and other 
exams administered by the CEEB.
CMU is working in conjunction with 
Pitt, Carlow, and Seton Hill who cooperate 
in the general plans of the Upward Bound 
Group to facilitate the needs of instructors 
and their classes. The main philosophy of 
the Veterans Educational Service Center is
to consider the strengths, weaknesses, 
needs, and attitudes of the veterans it 
serves. The plan is to carry this philosophy 
by offering counseling for the individual. 
The maximum number of veterans that 
could be accommodated at this time is 
projected at 150 veterans.
Mr. Freeman stressed this idea: “If there 
are any post-veterans attending CMU, who 
desire counseling, we hope they will come 
and we can be of some assistance. The 
Veterans Service Center is located in Room 
6205 of Srience Hall, ext. 832.
Young Georgia legislator Julian Bond 
speaks eloquently, and with knowledge, of 
the “new politics.” A founder of the Stu­
dent Nonviolent Coordinating Committee 
(SNCC) in 1960, he has been through the 
civil rights movement and to Chicago, 
where he gained fame as a successful insur­
gent delegation leader and made history as 
the first Black ever to be nominated for the 
Vice Presidency during the 1968 Demo­
cratic National Convention.
Bond describes the constituents of the 
“new politics” as urban militants, campus 
rebels, small farmers who refuse to pay 
rents, welfare people, housewives who are 
tired of rising prices and “high school stu­
dents who want to wear their hair more 
than one inch long.”
“This nation, for these people, is likely 
to fail,” he says, “as long as Saigon holds 
priority over Selma and men on the moon 
over men on the earth.”
Julian Bond was Communications Di* 
rector of SNCC until 1966, taking him to 
civil rights drives and voter registration 
campaigns in Georgia, Alabama, Mississ­
ippi, and Arkansas.
IJe was first elected to a seat created by 
reapportionment in the Georgia House ot 
Representatives in 1965, but was prevented 
from taking office in January, 1966, by 
members of the legislature who objected to 
his statements on the Vietnam War. After 
winning a second election in February, 
1966- to fill his vacant seat- a special 
House Committee again voted to bar him 
from membership in the legislature. Upon
his third election in 1966, the United 
States Supreme Court ruled unanimously 
that the Georgia House had erred in re­
fusing him his seat. After a year of harass- 
ments, he was finally seated.
The prominence he gained through that 
unsought martyrdom was swelled immea­
surably by his conspicuous role in the 1968 
Democratic National Convention. Charging 
that Blacks were being excluded from signi­
ficant participation in the regular delega­
tion headed by Governor Lester Maddox, 
Bond and fellow State Representative Ben 
Brown led an insurgent delegation, the 
Georgia Loyal National Democrats, to the 
convention in Chicago. The irregulars won 
half of the 42 votes that would have gone 
to the regular (Maddox) delegation, and 
thus helped defeat the unit rule that had 
stifled dissent at previous conventions. 
Seconding the nomination of peace candid­
ate Eugene McCarthy, Bond’s name was 
placed in nomination tor the Vice Presi­
dency, although he was too young to 
accept.
Since his moments of national glory, 
Julian Bond, has been hard at work as a 
Georgia legislator to make community po­
litics a reality for his constituency, the 
majority of whom were ignored before.
Julian Bond will present a lecture Sat­
urday, January 20, at 8:00 p.m. in the 
Skibo Ballroom. Admission is free. Pre­
sented by the Activities Board. *
PRESIDENT
RICHARD M. 
CVERT
discusses
—Security
—Changes In H&.SS 
and Fine Arts
—Structure of the 
University
President Cyert Will Answer Your Questions.
Call 621-9728 or 01 on the Morewood House Phone
Wednesday, January 17, 6-7 PJVL 
on
WRCT 9
REGAL NOTES
UNDERSTAND PLAYS, NOVELS AND POFMS 
FASTER WITH OUR NOTES 
We'r* new and we're the bigest* Thousands of 
topics reviewed for quicker understanding. Our 
subjects include not only English, but Anthro­
pology, Art, Black Studies, Ecology, Eco­
nomics, Education, History, Law, Music,
Philosophy, Political Science, Psychology,
Religion, Science, Sociology and Urban Prob- REGAL NOTES
lems. Send $2 for your catalog of topics avail- 3160 "0” Street N W 
obl*- Washington, D. C.’ 20007
Telephone: 202-333-0201
Special note: GC, what is reality?
Urban Came Developed
CONTINUED FROM PAGE 1 
corporate the human element into the mo­
del. At the same time, the students, en­
gaged in the political processes of the 
Game, learn the difference between what 
an elected official talks about doing, and 
what he actually can do.
“Students will face two principal real- 
world problems encountered by public of­
ficials: re-election and objectives which are 
varied and not easily defined. Game offi­
cials will be subject to re-election every 
two weeks, which will equal four years in 
the life of the simulated city. The entire 
semester will equal 30 years of simulated 
time.
“The computerized city model will not 
represent any one city. Data, including his­
toric data, will be obtained from studies 
done on a number of cities. Game partici­
pants will have the opportunity to levy 
taxes and spend public funds for police and 
fire, garbage collection, streets and high­
ways, education, and welfare.
Belkin notes:“We have found from ex­
perience with the Tech Management Game 
that the students do identify enough with 
the roles they play to take the game ser­
iously and become involved. As a matter of 
fact, one of the main differences between 
our game and other urban games is that our 
students will play the game long enough to 
get into it and see the effects of their 
actions and decisions.
“In addition, this time span should 
allow us to see what sort of impact offi­
cials’ decisions actually do make on a city— 
or if they make no difference whatsoever.”
The Game will be introduced to stu­
dents in the 1973-74 school year.
Other faculty working on the Game are 
Alfred Blumstein, director of the Urban 
Systems Institute in SUPA, a co-principal 
investigator of the Game; Joel Tarr, associ­
ate professor in the history department and 
SUPA; James Korn, associate professor and 
associate head of the department of 
psychology; and Anthony Walters, assistant 
dean of SUPA.
Program for Veterans

---------------------------------------------------

Page 10-THE TARTAN-Tuesday, January 16, 1973
Julian Bond Will Present
A Lecture 
Saturday, January 20th
At 8:00 P.M.
In The Skibo Ballroom
Admission is FREE
Presented by the Activities Board

---------------------------------------------------

THE TARTAN—Tuesday, January 16, 1973—Page 11
Pregnant? 
Meed Help?Astronomy Club Jiotes
The Astronomy Club of CMU began in 
1967, but did not gain official recognition 
by Student Senate until 1968. In that year, 
the Club decided to build a ten inch re­
flecting telescope.
Grinding operations for a ten inch mir­
ror began in a chemistry laboratory and 
then moved to the D level of Doherty Hall. 
After finishing the grinding, polishing of 
the mirror was begun at the Brashear Cen­
ter on the south side by Chuck Bobich. 
The mirror was polished and parabolized at 
the end of last year. This fall, work was 
begun on the mount for the ten inch mir­
ror, which was complete ' Ty De­
cember. The Club is hoping to complete
á
the telescope sometime this semester. This 
has been the main goal of the Club for the 
past 4lA years.
Believe it or not, the University owned a 
telescope before the Astronomy course was 
started! It was an 11” refractor with a huge 
pedestal and tube. This telescope was 
bought by Andrew Carnegie, so that he 
could have a spectacular view of Hailey’s 
Comet. It was set up in the open air where 
the Fine Arts Building now stands. After 
taking a peek through it, he left, never to 
use it again. Fortunately, the Club heard 
about it through Professor Coleman. The 
members proceeded to reassemble the be­
hemoth, and took inventory of missing 
parts. Budgeting money was actually alio-
Freespeed reading lesson.
You'll increase your reading speed on the spot!
Actually participate in techniques that will increase your 
reading and study speed on the spot. 
Learn how you can cut your study time in half.
Learn how you can comprehend and remember more. 
Learn why over half a million people have taken the Read­
ing Dynamics course.
Come to your free lesson.
TODAY thru THURSDAY at 5:30 PM and 8 PM 
OAKLAND - Howard Johnson’s, Blvd. of the Allies 
SOUTH HILLS VILLAGE — Room 306, Professional Offices 
NORTHWAY MALL — Mezzanine Level
BLAWNOX -Holiday Inn, Gamma Exit, Allegheny Valley Expwy.
IRWIN — Holiday Inn, Rt. 30 at Pa. Turnpike
0 Evelyn Wood Reading Dynamics Institute
William Penn Hotel, Pittsburgh, Pa. 15219 Phone 391-4330
PREGNANT? — Need Help
ADOPTION SERVICES, PREGNANCY TESTING, ETC. . . . 
NATIONAL FAMJLY PLANNING COUNCIL, LTD.
Coll: (215) 457-4139 Philadelphia, Pa.
OAKLAND HARDWARE & TOY CO.
CMU’s Convenient Headquastess 
fot Hasdwase
Desk Lamps * Key Service * Artist Brushes
* Hot Plates * Poster Paints ** School Supplies 
3606 Forbes Avenue OAKLAND Phone 621-0923
Campus Camesa Headquastess 
FOR ALL YOUR 
PHOTOGRAPHIC NEEDS
Film
Psocessing — Equipment
CAMERA EXCHANGE
Student Discount on Most Items
Two ¡Mentions 
OAKLAND-3711 Forbes Avenue 
SHADYSIDÍ—5432 Walnut Street
Phone: 683-21 SI 
Phone: 683-8900
cated for setting up the telescope, but a 
Department overran its budget and funds 
dried up for the endeavor. The telescope 
has subsequently been shipped to Saxon- 
burg. Due to its age and its size, that is 
probably where it will stay.
The Astronomy Club has sponsored 
speakers from Allegheny Observatory, as 
well as speakers from the campus commun­
ity such as Dr. Birnbaum and Dr. Meltzer. 
Besides the speakers, the Astronomy Club 
has sponsored field trips. Trips to Alleghe­
ny Observatory and the Buhl Planetarium 
have been made. Last fall, a field trip to 
Allegheny State Park was attempted but 
Mother Nature wasn’t very cooperative.
Last, but not least, are the observing 
sessions sponsored by the Club. Every Fri­
day and Sunday night when a few stars are 
visible, the Club conducts sessions behind 
the Frew Street apartments.
There will be a meeting of the Astro­
nomy Club Thursday, January 18, at 8:30 
p.m. in room 45 Skibo.
For assistance and information 
on a confidential basis . . . call 
us — we will help you.
COLLEGE
CAMPUSES
FOR
WOMEN'S
RIGHTS
(215) 449-2006
(215) 449-2007
(anytime)
ABORTION
INFORMATION 
ABORTION GUIDANCE
An Abortion can be arranged within 24 
hour« and you can return home the saone day you leave!
CALL TOLL FREE
(800)523-4436
A Non-Profit Organization 
open 7 days a week
RUGS
for Pho
wMi yew ID Card
1000 9x12 Rugs 
SIS S19 S29 S49
MDtOOMS, llVINOtOOM& CIC. 
AVAILABLE AT MCAttY SHOWROOMS
CHASE’S
MM WALMUT »TIMT, SMAOTMM
Of** DAILY 10 *m. «• * pm. 
(Setwdey 10 «.m. *• S
. Cm» U1-1M9
B'NAI B'RITH HILLEL 
JEWISH UNIVERSITY CENTER 
Y-IKC - 315 S. BELLEFIELD - 3rd fl.
Sat. Jan. 20 - 9:00 p.m. Thurs. Jan. 18-11:30-1:30 p.m.
Graduate Student Party Caffi Te,.Avjv
Open to Grad, students from all local cam- Lunch-Music-Films (weekly)
puses‘ Hillel Dining Room-3rd floorHillel Lounge - 3rd floor
%in. Jan. 2T - T1:00 a.m.
Bagel & Lox Brunch 
Ouquesne University Campus Ministry- 
bottom of towers 
Topic: To be announced 
Speaker: To be announced 
Cost: $1.00
Friday Jan. 19
Faculty-Student Sabbath 
6:30 p.m. Worship Service
7:15 p.m. Dinner
Speaker: Dr. H. Chester Dept, of Econ. Pitt 
Cost-$2.75
Call 621-8875 for reservations by Wed. 
Jan. 19
Mon. Jan. 22 -Noon
Middle East Perspectives 
Lunch & Lecture Series Pt. I 
Topic: "The Middle East Since 1815" 
Speaker: Dr. Bernard Weiss, Dept, of
History, Duquesne Univ.
Location: Hillel Library-3rd floor 
Cost for Lunch: 50 cents
Wednesdays-1:00 p.m. - Rabbi's Study
Ethics of Our Fathers-Discussion Circle

---------------------------------------------------

Page 12—THE TARTAN—Tuesday, January 16, 1973
Carnegie-Mel Ion 
University
ActivitiesBoardSchedule
Winter and 
Spring 1973
tpe
iu3
Concerts, Lectures, Coffeehouses 
and Special Events
ii/1
NOTE: ALL FILMS ARE IN DOHERTY HALL 2210 
UNLESS OTHERWISE NOTED.
Thursday, Jan. 11, Friday, Jan. 12
COFFEEHOUSE
Coster, Welling and Wallach
Saturday, January 13 
CONCERT
Coster, Welling and Wallach
Saturday, January 20
LECTURE
Julian Bond
Friday, Feb. 2
COFFEEHOUSE
Bill Bly
Friday, Feb. 9
CONCERT
Tranquility
Saturday, Feb. 17
BUFFALO BOB SMITH AND 
THE HOWDY DOODY SHOW
Skibo Ballroom
Saturday, March 2
COFFEEHOUSE 
Harry Waller & All American Band
Saturday, March 3
CONCERT
THE BYRDS
9 pm 
Kiltie Coffeehouse
8:30 pm 
Skibo Ballroom
8 pm
Skibo Ballroom
9 pm
Kiltie Coffeehouse
8:30 pm 
Skibo Ballroom
8 pm
9 pm
Kiltie Coffeehouse
8:30 pm 
Syria Mosque
Saturday, March 9
COFFEEHOUSE
Sharon Davis
Saturday, March 17 
CONCERT
Carlos Barbosa—Lima & 
the CMU Chamber Orchestra
April 12,13.14 
SPRING CARNIVAL
Sat., April 21 
THEATER
JACQUES BREL IS ALIVE 
AND WELL AND LIVING 
IN PARIS
9 pm
Kiltie Coffeehouse
8:30 pm 
Carnegie Music Hall
8 pm
Skibo Ballroom
Watch for further information about the 
balance of the concert schedule for 
Spring Semester.
TGIF
Will be held in the Skibo Ballroom every 
Friday, except Feb. 9, through Friday, 
March 8.
VIDEO
There will be a special video tape program 
weekly co-sponsored by the Activities 
Board and MDC.
Films
January 12 5:15,8:00 & .10:45
LITTLE BIG MAN — The Arthur Penn film featuring 
Dustin Hoffman as Jack Crabb who is the sole sur­
vivor of Custer's last stand, an Indian Brave, and the 
town drunk. As usual the first film is free from the 
AB.
January 19 7:00 & 9:15
S.T.A.G. OLD TIME - is back with W. C. Fields, the 
Keystone Cops, the 3 Stooges, Laurel & Hardie, 
Charlie Chaplin and others.
January 26 7:00 8t 9:00
THE GARDEN OF FINZI-CONTINIS - winner of 
the academy award for best foreign picture depicting 
Italy in 1938 as Mussolini's anti-Semitic edicts begin 
to isolate the Jews from their communities.
February 2 8 pm Skibo
BLACK PIRATE — Douglas Fairbanks Sr. stars in a 
swashbuckling drama, battleing the Pirate under­
world. As an extra attraction there will be a piano 
player to provide accompaniment to this silent 
classic.
February 9 7:00 & 9:00
VIRGIN PRESIDENT — locked in the White House 
basement by his father, our hero emerges to become 
the next President. A satire on the presidential office.
February 16 9 pm to 5 am Skibo
ALL NIGHT FANTASY FESTIVAL featuring: Make 
Mine Music, the sequel to Fantasia and the Point, 
\>n and the Argonauts and more.
WOODY ALLEN FESTIVAL
March 2 7 & 9:30 DH 2210
BANANAS — you'll go ape for this film as 
Woody plans the overthrow of a Latin Ameri­
can country.
7 & 9:30PH 100Mprch 3
TAKE THE MONEY & RUN - exploits the life 
of Virgil, a convict who is a product of terrible 
misfortunes.
March 4 7 & 9:30 PH 100
WHAT'S UP TIGER LILY - Woody takes a 
Japanese James Bond thriller and adds his own 
soundtrack to it. An international spy thriller.
BLACK AMERICA FESTIVAL
March 9 7 & 9:30 DH 2210
THE LEARNING TREE - deals with Gordon 
Parks autobiography. A boy becomes a man a 
littlte too quick.
March 10 7 & 9:30 PH 100
THE LOST MAN — concerns itself with a black 
militant's struggle to achieve his goal of a better 
future for his children.
March 11 7 8(9:30 PH 100
WATERMELON MAN - Geoffrey Cambridge 
portrays a man who is one day white and the 
next day black. More than his color change in 
this film.
WITCHCRAFT 8i OCCULT FESTIVAL
March 16 7 & 9:30 DH 2210
THE DEVILS — A true story of political and 
religious upheaval in France in 1634, which 
leads a priest to be unjustly accused of sorcery 
by a group of sexually obsessed nuns led by 
Mother superior (Vanessa Redgrave)
March 177 & 9:30PH 100
MEPHISTO WALTZ — A neglected wife wor­
ries about her husband as he becomes an in* 
centurous devil worshipper with extraordinary 
powers.
March 18 7 8(9:30 PH 100
WITCHCRAFT THROUGH THE AGES - Ben
jamin Christensen's film about witchcraft in the 
1920's.
April 6 & 7 7 & 9:30 PH 100
4th ANNUAL CMU FILM FESTIVAL - CMU stu­
dents display their most recent films on a variety of 
subjects. Free to everyone.
April 12 8( 13 7 & 9:00 DH 2210
April 14 7 8( 9:00 PH 100
SILENT RUNNING — First feature film of Douglas 
Trumbere, special events wizard of 2001; a botanist 
in space with Saturn having the oniy living plants in 
existence as the earth is barren.
April 20 7 8t 9:00
KING OF HEARTS — deais with the absurdities of 
the second world war. This foreign film has won 
many awards.
April 27 7 8t 9:30
THE CONFESSION — from the man who gave us 
"Z" Costa Gavras directs as Arthur London, former 
Vice-Minister of Foreign Affairs, is tried in Prague in 
1952 for political crimes.
