The Newspaper of Carnegie-Mellon University, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania 15213, Volume 84, Number 11, November 22, 1983.
Consortiumdiscussed
By PAULINE WEN
Tartan News Editor
1 Vice President of Computing and Plan­
ning Douglas Van Houweling held a 
question-and-answer session in the Mudge 
Lounge Thursday, November 10. Becky Fig- 
ura, Area Coordinator of North Campus, 
gave the introduction.
Most of the questions posed dealt with 
compuung problems. One of the first issues 
brought up, however, was the national con- - 
sortium on computing with which Van 
Houweling is involved. This consortium of 
universities and colleges was designed so 
that CMU and 14 other universities work on 
software “not just for CMU but for higher 
education.” Van Houweling hopes to 
broaden the'field. Included in the universi­
ties involved are Dartmouth, Cornell, U- 
Califomia, Berkeley, CMU, Stanford, and 
RPI. The official announcement of forma­
tion will be made at a press conference to be 
held in NYC on November 28.
Also discussed was the UCCB. To be 
housed in the UCCB is a PC store, complete 
with 25-45% discounts for the CMU stu­
dents, as well as advice for the confused user. 
The UCCB will mainly contain classrooms 
and terminals. Van Houweling hopes to 
have the university network connected soon 
with fiber optics, as opposed to the present 
copper wiring, to facilitate high speed file 
transfers.
Next summer every room on campus will 
be rewired in preparation for the PC’s. By 
1986, every' student will be able to purchase 
computers. “We haven’t heard if we’re 
going to require all freshmen to purchase 
computers in 1986,” commented Van Hou­
weling. “It’s up to the use of the PC’s by 
students until then.”
IBM is presently working on a PC for 
CMU that w'ill have the power of a VAX 
11/ 780. Alumni may also be able to obtain 
PC’s at the discount price of approximately 
S3000. CMU will also offer short courses for 
alumni to return in order to extend the 
discounts.
CMU is also considering buying and run­
ning its own telephone service. This issue 
will be settled in four to six months.
Other questions concerned the over­
crowding in the ECE department, the 
Bureau of Mines purchase and the field 
house. Of the overcrowding in ECE, Van
continued on page 5
In this issue
Editorial
Are faculty isolating themselves? ... page 2
News
Benjamin Fairless lecture......................page 5
(imputer gap” may evolve..............page 5
Features
Ski bo considered for renovation ... page 7
Interview sign-ups revised......................page 9Entertainment
Mozart’s Magic Flute delightful .. pajje 11 
I he Dead Zone chilling, suspenseful jxige 12Sports
Salisbury St. defeats Tartans...........j)age 15
Cross Country twelfth in nation . {jage 15
Signalling the start of the Holiday shopping season, “Light Up Night” was held downtown last Monday night, November 14.
Rally in Washington
20,000 protest invasions, US policy
By ALICE ALEONSI
Tartan Washington Correspondent
Washington, Nov. 12 — They walk side 
by side in the chill November wind. Both of 
them are in their early twenties. Both are 
concerned with peace, freedom, and the 
I future of their people. Both 
want the U.S. to solve its prob­
lems in Central America 
through diplomatic rather than 
military means.
In physical features they are distinguisha­
ble — the light skin and straight hair of the 
American student separates him from the 
brown complexion and dark eyes of the Sal­
vadoran youth who displays his affiliation 
on a red armband reading FMLN.
The American and the Central American 
who march together to the White House 
may be distinguishable in appearance but 
not in views as they join an estimated 20,000 
people in protesting U.S. involvement in 
Genual America and the Caribbean.
It is the first major nationally organized 
protest against the administration’s Central 
American policy since over a year ago w hen 
a protest was held the day before the U.S.- 
backed elections in El Salvador.
“Our people want peace. Our people 
want peace,” says Lautaro Sandino, repres­
enting the Student Committee of the Sandi- 
nista Youth Group of Nicaragua.
“We want a negotiated solution to this 
conflict in Central America. We don’t want 
war. It will be young people like us and 
young people like you that will have to 
fight."
TTie demonstration comes nearly three 
weeks after the U.S. invasion of Grenada. It 
comes even as public opinion polls show 
widespread approval of the military move in 
the Caribbean.
Organizers of the march include about 70 
civil rights, disarmament and foreign policy 
organizations. Colorful banners, identify
names of college contingents from Yale, 
Oberlin, Colgate, Swarthmore, American, 
and the University of Michigan.
Hundreds of others are here too, like the 
Nurses Against U.S. Aggression, the Lawy­
ers Committee Against U.S. Intervention, 
and the Ex-Peace Corps Volunteers,
Their concern is not with the public per­
ception of what Reagan initiated in Gren­
ada, but with what the invasion means in 
the big picture. Their concern is w ith what 
they say is an increasingly imminent U.S. 
invasion of Nicaragua and El Salvador.
Citing U.S. military build up in the 
region, Francisco Altschul charged Reagan 
with planning an attack in Central 
America.
Altschul, who is an architect in El Salva­
dor, is the Washington, D.C. representative 
of the FMLN-FDR Political-Democratic 
Commission.
The Reagan administration has 
upgraded military forces in the southern 
command in Panama, reactivated the Cen­
tral American Defense Council, built mil­
itary bases in Honduras, and has supported, 
trained and armed the Counter Revolution­
aries (Contras) in Nicaragua via the CIA.
Altschul lists these actions as omens and 
his fears are not unlike his comrades who 
say that Reagan is planning a war.
“Democracy has never existed in El Salva­
dor. Democracy only appears on the lips of 
United States officials when they need to 
justify more military aid to the totalitarium 
regime in El Salvador.”
A representative from the FDR spoke 
briefly to a group of American University 
students recently. He said the U.S. is build­
ing airstrips in Honduras — some facing 
Nicaragua and some facing El Salvador.
The young rebel said the United States is 
paying Contras to step-up the attacks in 
Nicaragua — the attacks and murders are 
designed to terrorize the people
“Reagan is making Central America part 
of his global policy of military strategy 
against the Soviet Union,” said the FDR. 
rebel.
In the name of a victory over commu­
nism, Reagan is gaining support for his 
militaristic solutions to probvlems that 
could be solved diplomatically.
“We are not and cannot be a threat to the 
American people,’ says Altschul speaking 
at the rally. Your interests and our interests 
are the same. Your goals and our goals are 
the same. The American people and the 
Salvadoran people share the same desire for 
peace and justice.”
continued on page 8
6.7% turn out to vote
By PAULINE WEN
Tartan News Editor
6.7% of the student population turned out 
for the Student Senate elections, held last 
Tuesday and Wednesday, November 15 and 
16. A total of 370 votes were cast.
In H8cSS, John Livanos was elected, with 
a tie going to Jeff Suzuki and Orpheus Alli­
son. Student Senate will break the tie.
In MCS, Cindy Taylor, Eric Rex her and 
Victor Shing won. Declining the vote was
Jordan Nash.
In CIT, John Pane, Pat Schmitt, Laura 
Sabadell, Joel Fechter and Usa Bruno 
received the most voles.
Peter Corless, Gail Erich son, Glenn Mur­
ray, Scott Durbin, Jeff Duer, and Barry Green 
were elected in CFA.
Steve Williams won in GSIA and Sura/ 
Ibrahim won in SUPA.
Ami making an appearance in HfcSS was 
Cerebus the Aardvark.

---------------------------------------------------

Editorial.___________________________________
Are faculty trying to isolate themselves?A proposal has been brought before the Faculty Senate to change the faculty dining room in Skibo to a faculty club. This club would be off limits to staff and graduate students.The faculty dining room is currently availa­ble to everyone on campus — yes, even under­graduates. It is a place where students and faculty can get together and talk. It is probably the only opportunity for interested students to talk with faculty in a relaxed environment.But now some faculty members would like to separate themselves from the lowly staff and students. They want their own club.
In the so-called Student Union.Most academic environments try to promote some sort of banter among students, faculty, and staff. Both academically and socially, this is a healthy activity; people should be able to see those outside their own narrow areas easily. Why stifle this? Why does the faculty need to exclude the rest of the university?When this idea was proposed recendy many people worked to oppose it. This group included a number of faculty members. Appar- endy they see it as destructive too.Due in part to the strong movement against
this, the Faculty Senate has decided to post­pone its decision. This will provide time f0w the university community to react.We encourage all members of the campus to make their opinions known. Graduate stu­dents should talk to their GSO representatives Staff and faculty can talk to the Faculty Senate representatives from their department. Stu­dents can work through the dean of Student Affairs or through Student Senate.Segregating this campus would only lead to more introverted activities, as each group affected moves farther from the others.
Shapiro offers opinions on Grenada and more
By Stuart Shapiro the President seems to feel little if any need national debate over how to prevent nuclear turn it into a self fulfilling prophecy. Fac
When grown up columnists don’t feel to address concerns over the extensive rami- war. It is not and should not be treated as a tions that would like nothing better than to 
like concentrating on any single topic for fications of this action. , statement of what the best way of accomp- force the multinational peace-keeping force
the duration of an entire column, thev pres- _. . , , lishing that vital goal is or is not. It simplv out of the country would then do everything. , r . 1 he arrival of cruise missiles in Britain. I ... , r . . . . , , ,, , , sent a grab bag ot commentary on assorted . . . . . , , illustrates the ureency of the task. in their power to scuttle the talks and thus, . ji , can certainly sympathize with those protest- T , T >• •, , . , . , .subjects. Needless to sav, here s • , , , r Lebanon. I disagree with people who achieve their objective.^ , mg against the deployment of new weapons ... . .. * , ,jp mystabattt. of mass destruction. only knows dre cla.m tha. the Mannes have no clear mis- Jesse ,ackson. If he wants to run for Pk»
o0' Grenada. T*e fact that the ^ ^ wor|(j needs |S more nudear s.on tn Lebanon. It seems obvious that the dent, hehasevetyrighltodoso.Morepowe,
¦ Va!! "T^L ^ ' ab'UT missiles. But it really bothers me that while the,r prese"ce 15 to help keep the . <° him. I'll be interested in seeing, howern
were ovenoved to be '-berated rom what Qrs find the nQ(jon of „ NATO government from commg apart at if he an come up with something mo«
apparently reaMy was a gang of bloodthrrsty imermediate nuc|ear ns imer|v the seams unu such ume as tts grasp on s„bs,an,ve than catchy slogans. I'm also
would-be dictators seems to me to be the hf)mf ¦ |he fac( (ha, ^ ^ Union authonty ts sufhaendy strong. It appears irritated by what amounts [Q hjs daim (i
ovemdrng fact^tn support of the mvaston. has ^.n;iddl neatlv two „,^55,20, mcreasmgly doubtful however that tha. being the one and only true representative«!
I he Cuban-Soviet military connection, _ , , , , time will ever come. Sail, to pull out now nmr Hr»wntrr^Hrlpn, week to its arsenal over the last several years ... . . r ,, , me poor ana aowntroaaen.while it did exist, does not yet appear to have , , would be a mistake, for it would demon-
been substantial enough to have warranted (°^Linues ° °esn 1 se^1 to strate that one good terrorist attack is all it The Suzuki case. If only half of what I ve
such drastic action. In any case, the whole . er 5™ m 1 f ^St ow many \iet takes to destroy U.S. foreign policy commit- heard and read about this is true, the power*.
affair raises serious questions about Ameri- missl es 11 13 e °re P^P e start S01 ments. The national reconciliation talks in t^lat might want to consider a formalj
can foreign policy. What really angers me is Un^ 'NOrT1 Geneva should be given a chance. If they fail crucifixion out on the Cut. It would more
the condescending manner in which Presi- The Day After. I find it deplorable that lo produce any solid results, we will have accurately reflect what they are apparently
dent Reagan shrugs off any attempt to this film has been so totally politicized by little choice but to get our troops out from ClTing to accomplish.
address these questions. Having successfully both the left and the right. The film should the middle of what will almost certainly Stuart Shapiro is a graduate student
pulled off this little exercise in terms of both serve as a powerful statement of the necessity become a full scale civil war. To announce Applied History and is a columnist forTk
mission objectives and U.S. public opinion, ot greater participation by everyone in the such a decision in advance, however, would Tartan.
Administration handled course registration poorly
By Dan Tobias dent, he is entitled to the superior education they are finally allowed in. This will only should be handled without the
Last Wednesday all students other than CMU has a reputation for. In particular, make the squeeze’ worse and worse. The fashioned system of requiring students I
freshmen had to go through the biannual there is absolutely no excuse for any depart- university may eventually be forced to let trek all over campus signing up for classes^
ritual of registration. In some departments, ment to deny a student in good academic students graduate who have not taken cer- A more reasonable system, appropriate to
such as Mathemadcs or Philosophy, this standing a spot in a course required for gra- tain required courses, rather than forcing this high-tech university, would be for stir
consisted of the mere formality duation. But this is just what the Electrical & them to take a fifth year through no fault of dents to plan out their schedules as now,;
of signing a class list, which Computer Engineering department is their own. This would degrade the aca- ____________________________continued on page*
only takes a couple of minutes, doing with its course, 18-133 (Introduction demic standards of CMU. The only moral
However, in several depart- to Digital Systems). Many non-EE majors solution for the administration to follow I ¦
ments, including Electrical 8c Computer are required to take this course in their would be to take whatever steps, however ™ S*
Engineering, and Computer Science, there sophomore year, but are being denied a spot extreme, are necessary to ensure sufficient .
were long lines stretching faf down the hall- due to lack of space. The Computer Science room in all required classes to meet demand, Ed‘tor |n ..............................................Monk
way, and some students actually camped department has had similar problems in the even if it requires hiring more faculty to Managing Editor..........................................C»regg. . ... . , , , , , , . 1 Business Manager.............................Karen 1'»there overnight to ensure a spot m line. I his past; there have been Umes when people teach them. News Editor Pauline Va
disgraceful situation exists because of the have been unable to get into such courses as In the future, they should consider admit- Features Editor Pauline Kran*
administration’s grievous failure to recog- 15-211. Currently, math majors are able to ting fewer students, if they do not have the Entertainment Editor...................................Susan
nize its obligation to its students. get into this course fairly easily, but it is resources to handle all of them. Asa matter Sports Editor...........................................Ric Medroj
When a student is admitted into a college virtually denied to other majors. of fact, the EE course mentioned earlier, Photography Editor...........................Mike Pilew^
or department of CMU, and enrolls and Surely, the administration must be smart which has a large backlog of students who Production Manager.............Carolyn Sperani
ultimately selects his major, an implicit con- enough to know that the people being need to take it, is offered only in the spring. Ad Manager.......................................Bonnie
tract is made between the University and the denied a space in a required course will have They can easily double the capacity of this Typesetting Manager......................Patti Carl»
student. Briefly speaking, in return for the to again queue up in registration lines next course by offering it both semesters, but they Art ^rectf>r-------;.......................Michael Sussrfl
(rather exorbitant) tuition paid by the stu- semster, the semester after, and so on, until apparently feel no need to do it. Contributing Editor................. V incent »ui
. Assoc. News Editor .... Christopher John»*If CMU makes a total commitment to . . . rJ. „Assistant News Editor.......................DougLetier. providing course secuons to meet demand, ^ Features mtQT..................Nea, Johnsta
_// h long registration lines could become a thing Asst. Entertainment................................... Scott
(y FIQQr ifiG TOOlUall IGdffl of the past. In fact, registration can and Asst. Sports Editor..................Christopher V*
~ ” ~ ~ Asst. Production Mgr.........................Bob AaiW
Editor Ours is a good football team, very well Opinion Policy Asst. Ad Manager...............................Andrew Gha|
A loyal and vocal contingent of CMU coached. It plays hard, grind-it-out offense _. , _ , . ^ ^ Classifieds...............................................Tara Die#*7 & » . 7 . Editorials appear at the top of page two, and are the fipnhe#
fans traveled to John CarToll University last and good defense. It deserves the strong sup- offtctal opinion of The Tartan Editorial Board. ^ubsenpuons ... *^na ™,en ^
Saturday to cheer our football team to the port of students, faculty, and press alike. Columns are the opinions of individual authors who < uon Sla“:. Peler Bam’ 1)011 E88erI'
climax victory of its undefeated season. My ., , . r , are usually on The Tartan staff, but the opinions are Creenblum, Maria Rivas._____________
wife and I were thrilled to be there and to be . ^ ^ numbers*** CMU commun- no( necessaTity lhose of Ille ianan Editorial Board. 0)pvright © 1983 bv The Tartan Editorial 1
part ()f it lty Will go to the games and in loud voice let Lrtms to the editor are opinions of tndnndualauthors re.serves the ngh( to withhoId fr(nn publicationi
... ^ , ... the players and coaches know we are behind ™ho are usually members of the University commun- . i( d(t>ms unfi| for publication. Editorial
e at Carnegie hawanadlleu< program that we want very, milih for them to ^ 4 ^ intended for publication must be signed and Skibo M (4|2) 578.2ni. Bus.ness CXfices: SkiboS
Of Which we must indeed be proud. Ours IS include the umter’s address and phone number for (412)578-2112 24 hour phone (412) 578-2113-M3'
college athletics at its very best. verification. Names will be withheld upon request. addltNs: !7 Srhenley Park. Pittsburgh PA tf-
Right now our football team is heading Harvey F. Sloan ^ Tartl" the Tl*ht to condense or reject any Fundfd ^ ^ Attivjti„ frt
into the N.C.A.A. Division III playoffs. Adjunct Professor l/’,tr1' All rights reserved.

---------------------------------------------------

November 22, 1983—The Tartan—Page 3
Letters:
Nuke war would kill all
Editor:
Last week Jeff Suzuki argued that in a 
given nuclear war, “There will always be 
survivors.” I must contradict that statement, 
for hew evidence proves that a nuclear war 
tan affect the entire globe regardless of the 
number of communities devastated.
According to the November 7 issue of 
Newsweek, there was a recent scientific con­
ference in Washington on “The World After 
Nuclear War.” This conference presented a 
two-year study by 100 scientists from around 
the world on the climactic changes that 
nuclear war would trigger, and how they 
would affect the biosphere.
In this conference, Carl Sagan of Cornell 
University presented a scenario resulting 
from a nuclear exchange involving 5000 
megatons (the equivalent of less than half 
the world’s arsenal, the amount expected to 
be usefl in a “limited” nuclear war). In this 
scenario, the intense heat from the explo­
sions would set off firestorms that will ignite 
everything flammable because of the super- 
hot air. These waves of fire would bum 
stored chemicals and chemicals in construc­
tion and manufactured products. The 
resulting poisonous fumes of carbon mon­
oxide, cyanides, and nitroxides would pro­
duce an acid rain that “would make today’s 
look distilled.” The heat would also hit 
dormant seeds buried in the soil, says biolo­
gist Paul Ehrlic of Stanford University, and 
thus will delay regrowth of plant life. In 
addition, the hot air, now heated to more 
than 3000 degrees Fahrenheit, would pro­
duce a photochemical smog that would 
erode 50 percent of the ozone layer.
But that is not all. Within one week, 200 
million tons of smoke from the burning 
cities would create a black screen that would 
eliminate more than 95 percent of the nor­
mal light that would reach the ground, 
choking off photosynthesis and plunging 
temperatures 50 degrees or more. Surface 
waters would free to a depth of at least three 
feet. These effects will eliminate nearly all 
plant life in the Northern Hemisphere, says 
Ehrlic.
The radioactive fallout would be greater 
than previously predicted because of the 
new “low-yield” atomic weapons. These 
bombs prevent the debris of fission high into 
the atmosphere and thus do not get “cooled” 
to less harmful levels before reaching the 
ground. As a result, 30 percent of North 
America would be blanketed by radiation 
over 200 rads — half the lethal dose — 
within half a year.
Although previously suggested that the 
Southern Hemisphere would not be affected 
by a nuclear exchange primarily in the 
Northern Hemisphere, this has turned out 
to be untrue. Although air rarely mixes 
between the two hemispheres, temperature 
inversions caused by the nuclear blasts 
would shift wind patterns and carry fallout 
and smoke south, according to Sagan.
It has become apparent that previous 
reports on the damages due to nuclear war 
have only taken to account the short term 
effects, and have failed to take into account 
what will happen in the coming months 
after a nuclear exchange. The only way it 
seems that anyone could survive from a 
nuclear war is to burrow underground for a 
period not less than 2 to 3 years. The esti­
mated cost of such a move would be several 
hundred thousand dollars per person. But 
even this move is pointless. Without a stable 
biosphere and an unliveable environment, 
no human could survive in the conditions 
suggested by Sagan. If anyone survives a 
nuclear war, they will only regret to have 
had their deaths delayed.
George H Feil 
CTT, ‘87Suzuki provides his side of'EDU" story
Editor:
A certain malignant, insidious individ­
ual, known only to those in computer-land 
as “Dragon,” has posted, my friends inform 
me, several particularly nasty bboards. Print­
outs of the bboards (computer bulletin 
boards) seem to say that Ehagon, whoever he 
or she may be, wants to hear from me on the 
subject. Since I have no computer accounts, 
this is my only chance to reply.
Dragon: the official and actual story, 
directly from me, is what I am about to 
explain. Working on the assumption that 
there would be a limit on the level of nested 
subdirectories, I proceeded to attempt to find 
that limit. This is what a number of people 
try to do: find limits. One night, I managed 
to create eighty subdirectories; and there was 
no “can’t continue’’-type message, to be 
expected. A week later, I added six more 
subdirectories. Eight hours later, the system 
was taken down by an operator because the 
disk was full.
Please note: I have been informed that, in 
no way, could the subdirectories, if empty, 
cause the system’s disk to be full. Thursday, 
on the Ampere E.C.E. system, the system 
operators created one hundred plus empty 
subdirectories, while the system load
remained constant. I created eighty-six 
empty subdirectories; J’ll let you draw your 
own conclusions.
(End Dragon reply.)
On Wednesday, I talked to Dean Walter; 
that talk made my final decision whether or 
not I thought it worthwhile to continue my 
education at CMU, even if I am not 
suspended.
Among other things, Walter implied, 
through his w'ords and through his actions, 
that all this trouble was caused by youth and 
immaturity. That is, the finding of said lim­
its is a by-product of childishness. He also 
implied that all “hackers” were as 1.1 believe 
that I have a few words to say.
I find his implications rather interesting. 
Does this mean, perhaps, that stagnation 
and acceptance of the world is a by-product 
of age? If that is the case, perhaps that gradu­
ate student of Architecture had the right 
idea. I want nothing of sheep-hood and just 
plain acceptance; I want to know about this 
world while I still can
Let’s examine the implications of Wal­
ter’s statements: this means that all the 
major and minor discoveries in the world 
were made by a bunch of “kids.” This also 
means that all the dark ages (where people
just accepted life, and refused to ask ques­
tions about their world) were caused by old 
age. Acceptance of the world as it is, Dean 
Walter made me believe, is a sign of “matur­
ity.” A desire to find out if it can be changed 
is a sign of “childishness.”
As the Dean of Student Affairs of a college 
known for its science and technology’ 
departments, Walter’s attitude is hard to 
believe.
A more rational bboard post (I do not 
define “rationality” as whether or not the 
bboards were posted for or against me, but 
rather whether or not the bboards were logi­
cally construed. I know of many people who 
are “for” me posting many irrational 
bboards) mentioned that (and I cannot 
quote, since I only know' of it through 
friends): the adventurous will probably go 
on to make the discoveries, whereas those 
w ho just accept may only get administrative 
positions at IBM or something. I’d rather be 
- friends with the adventurous.
Make your decision, here and now: do 
you want a placid world, with no malcont­
ents who try to find out about the world 
— or would you rather keep the ones who 
wish stagnation in a minority?
Jeff Suzuki
Suzuki fairy tale not quite accurate—add "malicious"
Editor
I am sorry to see that in previous discus­
sions on the Suzuki issue the real issue has 
been overlooked.
The common fairy-tale version of the 
story (presented by individuals such as Suzu- 
ki’s friends) is really nauseating. It usually 
reads like this:
Once upon a time there was a curious 
11icfi1 m.ieJ’Ciiojjnd -a tov that he had used 
large and exciting. So, being playful and 
harmless, he decided to see how far he could 
make it go just out of curiosity. Well, he 
unintentionally made it so that it couldn’t 
he used right anymore.
Some big bad and evil men came when he 
was gone and secretly tried to trick him by 
f ixing the toy. When he came back, it was all 
fixed! He thought it was some magic he had 
per formed. .So being playful and harmless 
stJH. he decided to unintentionally try his
littleexpenment again. This time, though,
the big had antj evjj men took him away, 
and he could never use the toy again.”
The reason why that bedtime story is giv­
ing me nightmares is that it’s trying to make 
something wrong that Suzuki did into 
something unjust that is being done to him. 
Look back to the preceding story and let me 
add in the middle:
“Other little boys and girls came to use the 
toy after the little boy because the big bad 
and evil men told them they had to. But they 
couldn’t since the little boy had uninten- 
waited and those that didn’t get to use it 
suffered because the big bad and evil men 
were unhappy.”
According to Suzuki’s friends, he did no 
harm to the system. What about to the peo­
ple who have to use the system?
Due to lack of space for all the people that 
must take this course (or the other 15-lxx 
coiirses) frequently 700 people a semseter 
must use the 40 terminals to pass and fulfill 
their graduation requirements whether they 
want to or not. Under these ridiculous and 
inefficient circumstances, the system load is 
high (causing disturbingly slow operation)
and there is a large demand for terminal 
time. The point here is that many non­
computing students are struggling through 
this situation not because they enjoy hack­
ing, but because they hai>e to.
Suzuki knew what the situation was; the 
difficulty in learning howr to program and 
getting assignments and masteries done in 
one’s available terminal time (often w’asfed 
with a slow moving systemJu. „QA1 ti? 
“satisfying his curiosity” at others’ expense. 
Whether hacking is justified or not is not the 
point here, but rather that hacking on that 
particular system under that overloaded 
arrangement screws over everyone who has 
to struggle through the course, people who 
are not there by their own choice!!
In addition, if indeed Suzuki “didn't 
know what he was doing” (I don’t believe it 
for a moment), then in such a potentially 
dangerous area as finding one’s disk space 
limit he could have and should hair got the 
information that would have ended the 
problem. Even if an in-room tutor couldn't
have helped, then he should have pursued it 
with the CS deparunent (If indeed it was an 
accident). One doesn’t push the levers on a 
running bulldozer and drive it around with­
out asking some questions, at least.
To all concerned I say this: think about 
what Suzuki did. Especially if you’ve taken 
15-111 and have used the UNIX terminal 
room, you will see that indeed Suzdkiv w^ 
many. Even if there wasn’t anybody (as his 
friends claim) in the terminal room at the 
time, the next day someone might have 
logged in and might be able to access his 
program. The real issue is not the petty 
details like how many subdirectories he 
created or what commands he used, but 
whether or not he was malicious in being so 
selfish and self-centered. I maintain he was. 
and I believe that any punishment he 
receives is a lot better than getting ripped 
apart by 700 angry students.
Dan CiOhen 
Sophomore ECE

---------------------------------------------------

Page 4—The Tartan—November 22, 1983
Letters:Letters were against Kurland, not her arguments
Editor:
Two days ago I opened the new issue of 
The Tartan. As I used to do every time, I 
read the opinion section. I could see titles 
such as “Kurland lacks respect for individ­
ual liberty.” I read eagerly thinking that it 
would probably be the name of a politician 
or — still worse — of a professor or some­
thing like that. You cannot imagine my 
astonishment when I realized that this was a 
girl’s name. She only had had to publish a 
letter in the previous issue.
I wonder how this publication which 
claims to be neutral about the letters pub­
lished in that section could have included 
almost one page of them in which argu­
ments “ad hominem” were the most often 
recourse. I mean these three letters — three! 
—against Ms. Kurland. And I say against 
Ms. Kurland because they seem against her 
and not against her opinions.
I think that a newspaper’s section of let­
ters is a vehicle of discussion of ideas, but not 
a way to ridicule someone’s opinions. In this
section objectivity must be the tendency. All 
the opinions should be supported by argu­
ments if they claim to be the truth.
For example, in Ms. Kurland’s letter 
there is a reference to adoption, and also in 
the other letters. I read: “as shown by the 
already overflowing numbers of unplaced 
children in the United States.” Amazing. 
Have things changed so much in a couple 
years? I would like to have read also some 
data to support that. In any case the impor­
tant point is not that of adoption. I found 
that the argument that says that it is better 
interrupting the pregnancy because other­
wise the mother would probably not give 
her son to be adopted is a real nonsense.
Another inconsistency — in the first letter 
there is a doubt about the definition of 
human life. In the second one, they say that 
“a fetus is an extension of its mother’s 
body.” In the third one, they ask for the 
benefit of doubt about whether the fetus is a 
human or not. I would like to have these 
people — notice that I do not say names —
Place blame where it's due
Editor
Hold it, folks. I dislike Phil Miller as 
much as anyone — I had him for 15-118 last 
fall (but managed to pass, anyway). But, in 
his defense in the Suzuki case, let’s place 
blame where blame is due.
We are at a major university, well- 
respected and top in many fields, but the 
cliche, “boys will be boys,” holds true. 
Given a toy — such as the Vax — boys will 
want to play until it breaks. Jeff Suzuki 
wanted to play, and made as many subdirec­
tories as he could. The toy broke. Phil Miller 
got mad. It hit the fan.
Why anyone would want to create eighty
plus directories is quite beyond me. Why 
Miller would get so upset when some kid lit 
the fuse he’d been handed is also beyond me. 
And why potentially system disabilitating 
functions such as nested subdirectories 
would exist on an intro system in the first 
place — well, I don’t understand that one.
I have two questions. First, who is the 
biggest fool: Miller, Suzuki, or the CS 
department? If you can answer that, you 
obviously have a better grasp of this esoteric 
situation than do I. Second, who is the 
bigger fool — the fool or the ones who 
support him? Much ado about nothing . . .
Lesley Brunker ‘86
studying human biology once again, if they 
have ever studied it after high school. You 
can see in all books — without exception, at 
least in the last years — that the fetus’s body 
is not an extension of his or her mother’s 
body — and I say “his or her” instead of “its” 
intentionally — and suffers the mother’s 
sicknesses in the same way as we suffer the 
pollution of our environment, and the con­
tamination of our food. You can also see the 
latest experiences in which a fetus is con­
ceived and fed outside the mother’s womb. 
He or she goes to it as going to a five stars 
hotel.
This, as many other things that I could 
add — this is only a simple example — 
seems to be in contradiction with those who 
say that the fetus has no human life. Besides, 
saying that human life begins when the 
being is self-sufficient would be equivalent 
to saying, for instance, that the children 
bom too early or sick and that have to be 
supported in an incubator are not human. 
This is a real oversimplification, taking the 
title given by the editor to the first letter.
I guess that the problem is not whether 
this being — fetus or unborn child, as you 
prefer to call it — is human or not. The 
problem is whether or not this being may be 
a subject of laws and may have rights, even 
versus the will of his or her mother. Some­
times the law may seem to some people
“unjust.” It forbids the use of marijuana — I 
read in the third letter “unhealthy,” but 
“which does not harm anybody;” I do not 
understand — but it should not be forbid­
den, as far as this is something done “in the 
privacy of his home.” In this way the law 
should have to forgive Charles Manson’s 
murders, committed in the privacy of his 
home. Anyway, I think this is the matter for 
a longer letter.
I would like also to encourage Ms. Kur­
land — and the other writers too, why not?
— to present the question clearly and with­
out passion. I found Ms. Kurland’s article a 
little naive. Actually, she shouldn’t use argu­
ments that people do not understand, as we 
can see. I found in the other articles a certain 
smell of “smart cartesianism,” always put­
ting into doubt the others’ opinions, but not 
providing arguments to support their 
own! Fortunately, I disagree with the 
authors of the second letter and I think that all 
opinions — right or wrong — have theii 
room in a democratic society, even that ol 
Ms. Kurland.
I must say that I do not belong to any of 
these “pro life” organizations, but that I 
cannot endure reading such a series of 
unmeditated reasonings about something as 
important as human life is.
Francis Ruiz 
Mechanical Engineering
Registration problems have to end
continued from page 2
then either they or their advisors would 
enter them into a computer terminal. Then 
the computer would generate class lists 
based on the individual schedules.
Until such a system is instituted, they 
should at least have no classes on registra­
tion day, to give all students, even those with
8:30 AM classes, a fair chance to stand in 
those endless lines and vie for a chance at 
getting into the courses which CMU really 
has no moral or legal right to deny them 
spots in anyway.
Dan Tobias is a sophomore in Applied 
Math and is a columnist for The Tartan.
Announcing 
Tartan 
Elections:
December 6th 
Room 45, Skibo 
7:00 p.m.
Interested but can’t attend the meeting? 
Call The Tartan at x2 III.
Positions available:
Editor-in-chief (one semester of experience 
with The Tartan is required)
Managing Editor 
Business Manager 
News Editor 
Features Editor 
Entertainment Editor 
Sports Editor 
Photography Editor
R/\rciar* I-
Appointments:
Production Manager 
Advertising Manager 
Typesetting Manager 
Art Director

---------------------------------------------------

November 22, 1983—The Tartan—Page 5
Kirby gives 1983Benjamin F airless lecture
By HOLLY BIERTEMPFEL
Tartan Staffwriter
“America in the Passing Lane: Moving 
U.S. Industry Toward the 21st Century,” was 
the topic at this year’s Benjamin F. Fairless 
Memorial Lecture, held last Tuesday even­
ing, November 15, in the Skibo Ballroom. 
The 21st annual lecture was given this year 
by Robert E. Kirby, chairman and CEO of 
Westinghouse Electric Corporation.
One of the issues discussed by Mr. Kirby 
was building a sound economic foundation
for future generations. According to Kirby, 
“Americans must better understand the 
importance of global interdependence 
take a more personal role in building a 
healthy economy and renewing the free 
enterprise system.” This followed the main 
theme of the Fairless Series of lectures: To 
strengthen free enterprise in a U.S. trading 
nation.
Mr. Kirby received a B.S. degree in Chemi­
cal Engineering at Penn State University. 
He was then chosen by the U.S. Navy to
study electrical engineering and radar tech­
nology' at Princeton, M.I.T., and Bell 
Laboratories during WW II. His career with 
Wesdnghouse began in 1946 in Baldmoreas 
an Industrial Electronics Engineer. He was 
nominated by Westinghouse eight years 
later for a program at Harvard University, 
where he received his Masters degree in busi­
ness and achieved recognition as a Bater 
Scholar. In 1966, he was elected executive 
vice president and a member of the board of 
directors of Westinghouse. In 1974, he was
//Colleges warned about "computer gap
(New York) — With computers revolu­
tionizing today’s college campuses, a grow­
ing number of college administrators are 
warning of an evolving “computer gap” 
between private institutions and state- 
supported public universities, Newsweek 
On Campus reports in its November 1983 
cover story. Students graduating from pub­
lic institutions are thus likely to be at a 
competitive disadvantage in a tightening 
job market.
“This isn’t the greatest time to go to your 
state legislature and ask for more money,” 
says Robert Gillespie, vice provost for com­
puting at the Unversity of Washington. He 
believes public universities are already 
unable to keep pace with private institu­
tions. Indeed, Newsweek on Campus says 
some officials think state colleges may not 
even be able to enter the computer sweep­
stakes at all.
“I don’t think the public institutions can 
compete because of economic and political 
constraints,” says Bernard Sagik, vice presi­
dent for academic affairs at Philadelphia’s 
Drexel University. “This is an opportunity 
for private schools to take a leadershop 
role.”
Newsweek On Campus reports that some 
colleges, such as Stevens Institute of Tech­
nology in New Jersey, require students to 
purchase a computer outright upon enrol­
lment. Other schools, such as Clarkson Col­
lege in New York, have eased the burden 
through a leasing plan. At Clarkson, the 
student pays $200 per semester and, upon 
graduation, the student assumes ownership 
of another $200. Public schools may never 
be able to require student purchase. "It’s
Van Houweling 
talks at Mudge
continued from page 1
Houweling commented, “We’re going to be 
careful how many we admit, and we’re ‘beef­
ing up’ the ECE facilities.” Some students 
asked questions concerning computing prob­
lems with CMU systems.
One of the last questions dealt with 
admissions leaning toward engineering and 
the sciences. “No,” Van Houweling said, 
^nd added, “we don’t want to be an MIT or 
Cal Tech. We want to be a university, not a 
technical institute. We’re wrestling with an 
image. The university is committed to 
maintaining high standards in H&rSS and 
CFA.”
PREGNANT?
And you didn't mmmn to be? 
For a free pregnancy test and 
confidential help, call
Birthright at 621 -1988
difficult at a state institution where you’re 
trying to provide education to everyone 
regardless of their means,” says Glenn 
Ricart, director of the University of Mary­
land’s computer service center.
The Newsweek On Campus cover report 
focuses on the increased applications of 
computers in higher education. In software, 
for example, several ingenious programs 
have already been developed for the arts and 
humanities. Drexel’s history department, 
for example, will use simulations to show
howr changes in events might have affected 
the outcome of history: what might have 
happened had Lincoln lived — or the U.S. 
fleet had not been caught at Pearl Harbor. 
At Pittsburgh’s Camegie-Mellon Univer­
sity, faculty and students in art can use an 
electronic palette to program 16.8 million 
color variations (although the screen can 
display only 256) while theater students at 
Brown University can use the computer to 
see how changes in set design and lighting 
will affect a scene.
appointed vice-chairman of operations. 
Other business activities include being 
chairman of the University of Pittsburgh’s 
board of trustees.
Mr. Kirby was awarded an Honorary Doc­
tor of Humanities Degree by Thiel College 
in 1976, and was also awarded the First Class 
Order of the Sacred Treasure by the Japa­
nese Government for his contributions to 
the nation’s economy and his promotion of 
friendship between the United States and 
Japan.
The Benjamin F. Fairless Memorial Lec­
tures are given yearly at CMU by an interna­
tionally known educator. Themes for the 
lectures include business and public admin­
istration, preserving economic freedom and 
human liberty, and strengthening free enter­
prise. These themes were chosen as they 
were all issues of concern to Benjamin Fair­
less throughout his career.
Fairless was president of U.S. Steel for 15 
years, and also served on the board of trus­
tees at Camegie-Mellon University. In 1959 
he was named honorary chairman of the 
board, where he served until his death in 
January 1962.
Computer Science and Communications at the General Electric Research and Development Center
TheEnvironment
TheChallenge
The R&D Center—one of the world’s leading laboratories in research and 
new product innovations for a widely diverse, multi-business corporation. A 
place to advance, professionally, by solving real-world problems; a place to 
grow, intellectually, by working with established technical leaders in a 
cooperative environment. Schenectady, the Adirondack Mountains and their 
lakes—a peaceful location with excellent recreational, cultural, educational, 
and cost-of-living advantages. Normally, five to fifteen minutes commuting 
time to work. New York, Boston and Montreal within a few hours drive.
To create and to extend Information Systems Technology for a company with 
large businesses in medical electronics systems, information and financial 
services, aerospace systems, and automation systems. An interdisciplinary 
team approach to influence the present and future directions of information 
and knowledge systems technology for a large multi-national corporation.
ProfessionalOpportunities
We have immediate openings for technical staff, project leader and program 
managers. Candidates should have the appropriate education/experience in:
• Artificial Intelligence• Expert Systems• Systems and Network Architectures• Data Communications• Communication Protocols• Programming Languages and Compilers• Software Engineering• Relational Data Base
Candidates should have either M.S. or Ph.D. degrees in Computer Science, 
Computer Engineering or Electrical Engineering.
Contact .Investigate a challenging career with excellent salary, benefits and growth 
prospects by sending your confidential resume to Mr. Neff T. Dietrich, 
University Relations and Recruiting, Ref. CC-3, General Electric Research & 
Development Center, RO. Box 8, Schenectady, NY 12301.
GENERALELECTRIC
An equal opportunity employer

---------------------------------------------------

Memories worth investing in .. .
THE THISTLE
On sale Nov. 28 — Dec. 2 
Skibo Grey Matter 
$18.00
The last day to have names printed on the cover is Dec. 2nd.
fund«! bv srudent activities fee
iwnt

---------------------------------------------------

Features.
CDC makes a move to first floor of Baker
By GREG CAMPBELL
Tartan Staffwriter
The Communications Design Center 
(CDC), formerly located in Baker Hall 253, 
has moved to Baker Hall 160, across from 
the Academic Advisory Center. The move, 
according to Carol Janik, the CDC adminis­
trator, is due to expansion. Although many 
students are probably unaware that there is 
such a place as the CDC, the need for it 
seems to be growing.
The center was opened in 1979 under the 
direction of John Hayes, a cognitive psy­
chologist here at CMU. Its main purpose is 
researching the effectiveness of manuals and 
documents. The focus is not only on how to 
make manuals and documents easier to 
understand, but also on helping profession­
als to communicate better through their 
materials. Some of the more interesting 
things that the CDC is researching include: 
studying what people forget after they have
worked through a manual; producing 
understandable manuals for novices (for 
instance, computer texts); and revising med­
ical consent forms at hospitals. The CDC 
has also begun to sponsor workshops, the 
first of which was held last month, a work­
shop for computer professionals entitled 
“Developing Effective User Manuals.” 
They are planning to hold more workshops 
in the future.
The CDC, though, does not just sit back 
and tell others how to do it. They have put 
their research to good use, writing several 
manuals which are widely used at CMU. 
Although Janik stressed that the CDC’s 
main function is research, they do occasion­
ally publish a manual. These are the people 
who brought us the infamous TOPS-20 
user manual. They also published the Exec­
utive Information System manual for CMU 
executives not familiar with the computer, 
and are currently at work on a manual for
the new IBM PCs. Their work is not limited 
to the campus: at the moment the CDC is 
working with IBM and U.S. Steel on man­
ual productions.
Because of the tremendous amount of 
research and wanting w'hich goes on there, 
the CDC provides excellent opportunités for 
students and faculty alike. Members of the 
English, Psychology, Design, and Compu­
ter Science departments have all been
involved, at one time or another, in the var­
ious research projects that go on in the CDC. 
And internships are sometimes available 
there.
With all of the emphasis being placed on 
developing better manuals, one wonders if 
the CDC ever looked into teaching people 
how to better read and understand them. 
According to Janik, no. “If the manual is 
confusing,” she said, “then the manual 
should be rewritten.”
ITC: vice & virtue
"Skibo Information Day”Architects meet, discuss Skibo's fate
By W.J. HANSEN
Special for the Tartan
Campus computing with the ITC system 
will have better performance and a different 
appearance, but will have a similarity to the 
current system: users will execute programs 
at a workstation and will access the same set 
of files no matter which workstation they 
choose.
The basic structure of the system was pres­
ented by Jim Morris, director of the Infor­
mation Technology' Center, at a seminar 
held September 28. Professor Morris did his 
undergraduate work at Camegie-Mellon 
University and c urrently has an additional 
appointment in the Computer Science 
Department.
Morris outlined a system with a shared
all took place in the Wherrett Room and 
was hosted by George Temple, Mark Coan, 
Michele Beaulieu, and Carl Erickson — all 
students in Prof. Jay Ganott’s Architectural 
Programming and Feasibility Analysis 
class.
22 people from the university who are 
directly affiliated with Skibo were also there, 
such as members from the student and 
faculty senates, representatives from the 
organizations which have offices in Skibo 
(art store and food services), and Anne 
Witchner, from the information desk and 
student activities.
In addition, Harvey Rabinowitz and 
Wolfgang Preiser, experts in “post­
occupancy evaluation” (building evalua­
tion), attended the workshop and delivered a 
lecture on the topic the night before. Rabi­
nowitz is a visiting professor from the Uni­
versity of Wisconsin at Milwaukee. Preiser 
teaches at the University of New Mexico and 
is certainly no stranger to POE’s. He has 
been involved in 20 of the processes, includ­
ing redoing the student unions at UNM and 
Sydney, Australia.
“The problem with student unions ,” he 
says, “is that they change in their function at 
some point. In Skibo, the functions have 
outgrown the facility, especially food servi­
ces.” Preiser pegs Skibo in the “medium- 
fair” category. Although he feels that the 
building gives off a “cheap image of an 
institution which has an elite image,” the 
architect who doubled the size of Sydney’s 
student union feels that if there is a “serious 
commitment,” Skibo could be improved 
within five years.
The workshop members had similar
Part of the brainstorming session during the 
may be on its way to a new look.
ideas of what needs improving. To begin 
with, “there is no clear-cut statement of 
intent of what the building’s supposed to be. 
Is it a multi-purpose building or a student 
union? The university needs to decide. We 
need a position statement,” says Garrott.
“Tacky” was mentioned more than once. 
In fact, Walter, who is a ’70 alumnus, 
kidded, “When I came back and saw the grey 
matter, I almost lost it.” Rabinowitz assessed 
Skibo as “tacky — one step above seedy.” 
Witchner brought up some valid points, 
including the confusion as to Skibo’s pres­
ent purpose, since it was built as a faculty 
facility. Witchner says that there is no recrea­
tional space: Skibo lacks a lounge, quiet 
area, theater, commuter lockers and rooms,
“Skibo Planning Workshop.” The building
grad student space, or a rathskellar. These 
are all definite components of a “student 
activities center.” None of these exists in 
Skibo.
Structural issues were brought up: the 
concrete base is deteriorating, causing a slow 
creep down to the tennis courts. Internally, 
Skibo is not utilized well in terms of keeping 
up with expansion; space is under-utilized. 
There is also a drainage problem as w?ell as 
an imbalance of energy'. The ground floor is 
usually quite cold while other rooms are 
continually near 80°. A woman from the art 
store relayed that dirt is constantly fiiiering 
in through the vents. One participant said 
that the “whole building is a code viola- 
continued on page 9
network called “Vice” and a workstation for 
each user. "Die workstation system is called 
“Virtue.”
Vice is expected to consist of a central 
“spine” network connecting many “clus­
ters.” It is convenient to think of a cluster as 
being all the workstations on a dormitory 
corridor or all the workstations in what is 
now a terminal room. Also attached to the 
cluster will be a file server and perhaps a 
printer. The spine will connect all the clus­
ters together with central archival file stor­
age, a gateway to the TOPS systems, central 
printing, access to other networks, and other 
amenities.
Virtue workstations will be high perfor­
mance desktop computers with bitmap dis­
continued on page 8
photo by GeofRe Spofford 
The Communications Design On ter, now in BH, across from the AAC.
By PAULINE W. KRAMER
Tartan Features Editor
Skibo needs help.
While the rest of the school is growing 
quickly, including the size of the student 
body, the 23-year-old building is going 
nowhere.
President Cyert and Dean Walter realized 
this and approached Omer Akin, the head of 
architecture, to see if something — any­
thing, could be done.
Three weeks ago , the building was given 
a day all its own and was the topic of a 4'4 
hour brainstorming session, appropriately 
dubbed the “Skibo Planning Workshop.” It
photo by
JAY GARROTT

---------------------------------------------------

Page 8—The Tartan—November 22, 1983
Charismatic Jackson excites raiiiers
continued from page 1
Another speaker shares those thoughts. 
Rev. Jesse Jackson was the clear highlight of 
the rally which featured such popular 
speakers and singers as June Jordan, and 
Peter, Paul and Mary.
After nearly five hours under overcast 
skies and 40 degree winds, the shivering 
crowd went wild at the mere introduction of 
the charismatic black leader who recently 
announced his candidacy for the presidency.
“We are here today to protest a foreign 
policy that is increasingly using military 
might as a first resort rather than a last resort 
for solving international conflicts and 
differences.”
Jackson’s strong preacher-like tone 
evoked an enthusiastic reaction from the 
crowd as no other speaker could during the 
afternoon’s events. “We are here today 
because the political atmosphere of ram­
pant militarism is on the rise in our nation.
“Poor black, Hispanic, white people are 
the ones w ho are being used as cannon 
fodder in Grenada and Lebanon, and 
they’re the ones who will be used to protect 
an unjust status quo in Central America, 
given our present course.”
Jackson demands a new course in Ameri­
ca’s foreign and domestic policies. He says 
America needs to support a neutral peace­
keeping force in Lebanon and that the coun­
try’s highest priority should be in 
negotiating arms agreements with the 
Soviet Union.
“The nuclear race is a threat to the human 
race.” Jackson said, “Latin America is not 
our back door, it is our next door. We must 
respect our next door.”
Listing the blacks, Htspanics, American 
Indians, students and women, Jackson
announced “the old minorities when com­
bined are the new majority — that’s the 
rainbow coalition.
“We rise above racism, sexism, milita­
rism. The rainbow coalition has the power 
to move together from the outhouse to the 
statehouse, to the courthouse, to the White 
House.”
As the crowd rose to its feet applauding, 
they chanted with Jackson, “Our time has
come.”
“Women stand together, blacks stand 
together, Hispanics stand together — Our 
time has come ... Peace in Central America
— Our time has come.”
“Members of the FMLN-FDR say the 
only way to stop an all out confrontation in 
Central America is to convince the Ameri­
can people to stop Reagan and his “tidy 
little wars.”
They say the single most important force 
is our opposition — the opposition of the 
American people.
“The thing that scares the administtation 
more than anything,” says one FDR repre­
sentative, “is to see people protesting in the 
streets like they were during Vietnam.”
That Reagan’s policies are a dangerous 
version of absolutism (good vs. evil) is exem­
plified by the support given to him by 
extremists like the Moonies. The only nega­
tive scene during the march and rally w'as 
caused by supporters of Reagan’s policies — 
members of the Unification Church.
Eighteen persons were arrested and 
charged by the U.S. Park Police with disor­
derly conduct when they tried to block the 
march by sitting in the street.
According to the Washington Post, all 
those arrested are members of the Unifica­
tion Church’s student arm — The Colle­
giate Association for the Research of
Principles (CARP). The Moonies are strong 
believers in absolute good versus absolute 
evil. They think in terms of black and white, 
complete discipleship.
The teachings of their messiah, Sun 
Myung Moon, are strongly anti- 
Communist. Moon views America as heav­
enly and the Soviet Union as evil. He also 
supports Reagan as does his recent endeavor 
in Washington journalism,The Washing­
ton Times.
Having a world view in such narrow 
terms can be dangerous, and the people of 
Central America say, “it can crush people 
like us in the name of patriotism.”
Others in Washington are beginning to 
voice their opposing views to the increased 
use of military solutions. To them, Reagan 
is no longer the embodiment of apple pie.
Representative Ted Weiss (D-NY) says 
that Reagan has violated the constitution 
with his recent attack on Grenada. Weiss 
and a half-dozen other Congressmen are 
sponsoring a resolution calling for the 
impeachment of President Reagan.
The resolution cites three specific viola­
tions of the constitution. It charges that Rea­
gan usurped the power of Congress to 
initiate and declare war, that he breached the 
charters of the United Nations and the 
Organization of American States in launch­
ing an attack on an independent sovereign 
nation without provocation, and that he 
violated the first amendment by preventing 
the press from covering the invasion.
If the constitution can be disregarded as 
cavalierly as Ronald Reagan disregarded it 
in the invasion of Grenada, then the demo­
cracy which we have enjoyed and cherish 
has not long to endure in this nation,” says 
Weiss.
Weiss even answers the charge of people
who say we must have confidence in the 
president, and never mind the constitution.
Quoting Thomas Jefferson from a 1798 
speech, Weiss says,“‘In questions of power 
then, let no more be heard of confidence in a 
man, but bind him down from mischief by 
the chains of a constitution.’”
The FMLN is the Farabundo Marti 
National Liberation Front and is a coalition 
of five Salvadoran leftist guerrilla groups, 
several of which were started in the late 
1960’s for the purpose of overthrowing El 
Salvador’s military dictatorship. The Uni­
ted States supports the government (what 
FMLN calls the military dictatorship) in El 
Salvador.
The FDR, or Democratic Revolutionary 
Front, is a coalition of about a dozen politi­
cal parties, unions and academic organiza­
tions ranging from dissident Christian 
Democrats to Marxist-oriented labor 
federations.
Both the FMLN and FDR have joined in 
an umbrella organization seeking an end to 
civil war in El Salvador through negotia­
tions with the United States.ITC virtue
continued from page 7
play interface. The operating system will be 
UNIX (trademark of Bell Laboratories) 
with a user interface designed by the ITC.
When a user at a workstation operates on 
a file, the Virtue and Vice systems cooperate 
to find it. If it is on the user’s local disk, that 
copy is used, otherwise the local cluster 
server, another cluster server, or the central 
archive are accessed to get the file. From the 
user’s standpoint, however, the file is 
requested by name and the system delivers it. 
It is in this sense that the new system will be 
much the same as the old.
Ghristmas Gift Ideas
U/hy not give a 
friend a bookstore 
gift certificate 7
CMU Bookstore
from all of the turkeys here at WRCT, have a
Happy Thanksgiving
keep listening to \ZlT r
88.3 FM stereo for: V.
Upcoming
SPECIALS
• Wed. Nov. 23 at 5:30 PM The 
College Concert Hour featuring 
Jonathan Richman and 
the Modem Lovers
• Fri. Nov. 25 at 9:00 AM Talk­
ing Politics with C. McC.
• Friday Nov. 25th at Noon The 
Warner Bros. Music Show. A special half-hour Thirsty Ear Pro­
duction featuring music and comments from The Gang of 
Four, Juluka, Tim Scott, and Aztec Camera.
Upcoming
GIVEAWAYS
• Pairs of passes to the David Thomas and the Pedestrians concert at 
the Decade on Tues. Nov. 29 at 10 PM
•Several copies of their latest album Variations on a Theme
• Pairs of passes to the Green on Red concert at the Decade on Wed. 
Nov. 30 at 10 PM
•Several copies of their latest album Gravity Talks 
•Several copies of the limited edition Wamer Bros. Compilation Album 
If the Shoe Fits to be given away following the broadcast of the W.B. 
Music Show on Friday, Nov. 25th at Noon.
Request lines 578-2883 or 621-WRCT^ funded oy activities fee

---------------------------------------------------

November 22, 1983—The Tartan—Page 9
GENERAL INFORMATION
NS*: >3K< y&CK y9HK.y9KK 'j9KK.yfRK VMPOVKK y&KKy/KBC 3MK$SK9
DISPLAY ADS
Diplay ads are $4.50 per column inch, minimum order is two 
column inches. Special rates are available. There is a late submis­
sion charge.
Deadline: Tuesday before publication at 5:00 PM
CLASSIFIED ADS
Classifieds are $2.00 for 1-20 words, $4.00 for 21-50 words, 
$8.00 for more than 50 words.
Dealine: Wednesday before publication at 5:00 PM
ANNOUNCEMENTS
Announcements and Events are free for non-profit organizations.
We reserve the right to delete or edit any announcement or event.
Deadline: Wednesday before publication at 5:00 PM
For further information, contact Business Manager Karen Tylak.- 
Business hours: Monday and Wednesday, 4:00 to 6:00 PM 
Address: Box 17, Schenley Park, Pgh., PA 15213 or Skibo 50 
Phones: 578-2111/2112 
24-Hour answering machine: 578-2113
Fran Liebowitz, humorist, will be speaking in the BR tonight.
Interview sign-ups revised
New bid system to be initiated for senior Chem E's
Medieval dinner to be held
By NEAL JOHNSTON
Tartan Staffwriter
Alarm clocks blared at 4 a.m. on October 
21. Time for classes? Too early. Then what? 
About sixty senior Chem E’s know the 
answer: to stand outside of Warner Hall, 
hoping to be one of the first there. After all, 
it’s sign-up day at Career Services.
For some, this isn’t a new practice. How­
ever on that day, a problem arose. After one 
numbering system had been made up and 
some students returned to bed, the trouble 
started. Indignant at waiting while some 
went back to sleep, one student came up 
with a plan to assign new numbers to only 
those who were present. Needless to say, this 
action caused several problems which set off 
tempers. Dan Malinaric, a senior Chem E, 
admits that “it was the last straw. Some­
thing had to be done.”
Quickly coming to the students’ aid was 
Dennis Ryan, director of Career Services.
The following week he talked to the group 
during one of their classes, and they decided 
to organize an advisory committee to solve 
the problem. “Frankly, I was dismayed at 
the abuse of the number system that day. 
Something needed to be done and since a 
change was favored by the seniors, I realized 
the sooner the action taken, the sooner the 
solution,” Ryan said. The committee con­
sists of Ryan and five volunteer students; 
among them is Malinaric.
The six have met twice so far and dis­
cussed several plans, all of which are in use 
at other schools. The most favorable was the 
“bid system,” which may be initiated next 
semester. The system would work as fol­
lows: each senior Chem E would be allotted 
a number of points; when a company they 
want to be interviewed by comes to campus, 
they would use the points to bid for inter­
view slots. The highest bids get the inter­
views; after the points are used up, then that 
person could have no more interviews. This
system would pertain to no one other than 
Chem E’s or affect the current PIC system 
(which guarantees a senior three interviews 
with companies of their choice without 
waiting in line to sign-up).
Why has this problem arisen just lately? 
Both Ryan and Malinaric agree that when 
the job market is good there are a lot of slots. 
However, the market has gotten tough so 
slots are few and the lines longer. “The prob­
lem now has dissipated” says Ryan “and the 
pressure is seemingly off. Things are even 
looking up a bit. The job market is improv­
ing slightly and companies are showing
more enthusiasm to hire students for entry 
level jobs. This isn’t a great year, but people 
will get more attention than last year.” 
Upon hearing this news, Malinaric could 
only smile wrily at his two rejection letters.
The plans from the advisory committee 
are only tentative at this time. And possibly 
temporary until the long lines subside. We 
can only look towards Ryan’s optimism as a 
trend for the future. As for the past, Mali­
naric admits that “it’s been an interesting 
experience, but I wouldn’t want to go 
through it again.” You and about sixty 
others.
By NANCY ADELSTEIN
Tartan Staffivriter
Hear ye, hear ye - Camegie-Mellon’s first 
annual Madrigal Dinner will be held on 
Saturday, December 3. This feast, which 
revives Medieval England, will celebrate the 
Christmas festivities in a majestical manner. 
The hosting king will oversee various 
modes of merriment w'hile everyone dines 
on an authentic Elizabethan meal.
Throughout-the evening, dancers musi­
cians, and other medieval players will dis­
play their varied talents to the guests. 
Specifically, the CMU chamber singers, 
under the direction of Max Peterson, will 
entertain with the traditional vocal music of 
a madrigal feast.
The labor and long hours of preparation 
for this event are evident as every minute 
detail had to be considered, ordered, and
Witchner, the director of student activities, 
are Doug Derr, Rich Ives, Chris Hayes, Beth 
Bangor, and Karen Lee. Assisting with the 
entertainment section of the feast is Max 
Peterson, a music professor. Harry Duane, 
the representative from food services, is cat­
ering the affair.
Duane guarantees a “good, hearty meal”; 
and all those who are involved agree that it 
should prove to be an enjoyable and fun- 
filled evening. Only a limited number of 
people can attend this celebration, so if you 
would like to participate, get your friends 
together and make reservations.
Tickets will be sold from 9 to 5 at the 
Information Desk during this week. The 
prices are: $7.00 for CMU students, $9.00 for 
community members and CMU staff, and 
$4.50 for children. Contract holders will be 
accredited, but will have to pay the extra
arranged. Students working with Anne amount.
Experts evaluate Skibo
continued from page 7
tion,” especially regarding handicap access.
The next step prior to the POE is the 
most important, according to Preiser. “One 
must communicate the findings to the right 
people, those who are interested in doing 
something. Then something will happen.” 
Documentation of exactly what is needed is 
crucial; recommendations for redesign and 
renovation must be carefully detailed to pro­
vide a solid plan of action.
Garrott and his students are working on
this* documenta tion with Walter which will 
then be presented to the administration. But 
most agree that that this one session will not 
suffice — ‘he experts need to make a more 
detailed investigation of the building. 
In addition, student input is critical to the 
advancement of the initial documentation 
process.
Since Skibo has become CMU’s public 
center, Walter feels that “we need a first-class 
facility for students. We are certainly aware 
of it and want to do something about it.”
photo by George Spofford 
Long lines like these are overly familiar to seniors who are engaged in the interviewing 
process. The Placement office is looking into a bid system as an alternative to camping out 
in front of Warner Hall.

---------------------------------------------------

TUESDAY
NOV. 22
8:00 PM
SKIBO BALLROOM
StVNSORLI) BY AB LECTUREFUNDED BY ACTIVITIES FEE

---------------------------------------------------

Entertainment
New trend in 
Magic Flute
Stages of life topic for McCartney's Pipes of Peace
By ADAM HANIN
Tartan Staffivriter
In Pipes of Peace Paul McCartney has 
given the world his feelings about life and 
love, and his suggestions as to how to 
remedy many of our problems. Along with 
» his all-star recording cast, 
including Stanley Clarke on 
bass, Ringo Starr on drums, and 
occasional vocals with Michael
CMU’s Writer’s Guild is sponsoring its 
first sWordance of the academic year on 
Thursday, December 1 at 7 p.m. in the 
Forbes Gallery, 5200 Forbes Ave.
sWordances offer CMU students and 
faculty the chance to read their creative 
works in an informal atmosphere.
The forthcoming reading will feature 
three senior writing students: Maria Bar- 
buto, Kyle Fisher, and Richard Gorelick. All 
will be reading prose selec tions.
Barbuto will be reading a prose poem 
entitled “4 Friends and All Are Not Here," 
which is about “living inside of fiction," 
says Barbuto. Barbuto plans to read two 
other fictional works, one about “dealing 
with imperfection,” and the other, a “super­
short” called “Contemporary Reptiles." 
Gorelick will be reading his short story.
Marching Up Meriban.......ITus is an issue-
oriented story,” says Gorelick. “These are 
suburban characters acting out a biblical 
dilemma — with a little gratuitous sex and
Jackson, McCartney presents the feelings of 
what could very well be one man going 
through different stages in his life.
The title song begins with strange sound 
effects, w hich McCartney has by now accus­
tomed his listeners to. Once the music beg­
ins, however, it is obvious that the performer 
is McCartney; the voice is unmistakeable, as 
is the style. The tune is bouncy and melodic, 
with several martial interludes, during
violence.”
Gorelick views this piece as more serious 
than some of his other stories. “I have a 
problem w ith laughing at my own jokes, so 
I figured I’d save myself the embarrassment 
and others the discomfort by reading some­
thing more serious."
Audience reaction is important to Fisher, 
who will also be reading one of her short 
stories. “I think it’s important for writers to 
read their works to an audience, and expe­
rience the performance aspect of their work. 
Audience members should feel free to talk to 
the writer — give him feedback — after the 
reading.”
Fisher hopes that people will find her 
work down-to-earth, perhaps more so than 
is normally seen in fic tion. ‘‘I like to try to 
tell gtxxl stories about people who live and 
sound like they could walk off the page.”
sWordances are regular happenings 
throughout the school year, and are open to 
the public. Admission is free.
which the pipes of peace can be heard pip­
ing along.
Pipes of Peace also contains several songs 
worth mentioning. “Keep Under Cover” 
begins as a slow ballad, with McCartney’s 
yearning voice affirming his love to an 
unnamed woman. But then, the easiness of 
the music is interrupted by Elanor-Rigby- 
like strings, and then a very uptempo beat. 
This is without a doubt one of the better 
tracks on the album.
Also mentionable is “Through Our 
Love,” one of the two ballads on the album. 
“Through Our Love” is an absolutely beau­
tiful love song, w hich McCartney sings with 
true feeling. When the orchestra enters the 
piece, one gets nearly drawn into the music.
Of course, most people are already famil­
iar with “Say Say Say,” the duet with 
Michael Jackson. But Pipes of Peace also 
has “The Man,” another duet with Jackson. 
“The Man” is a much better cut than “Say 
Say Say.” It is more melodic, it showcases
The Pittsburgh Dance Alloy will present 
the second concert of its 1983-84 subscrip­
tion series on December 9 and 10 at 8 p.m. 
and December 11 af 2 p.m. in the Eddy 
Theatre on the Chatham College Campus.
Highlighting the perfonnance weekend 
will be a new work by renowned New York 
Choreographer Richard Merrill. Currently 
a teac hing artist at the Lincoln Center Insti­
tute in New York Citv, Merrill studieddancie
the talents of both of these top vocalists bet­
ter, and in fact, establishes the twro as a great 
team. I’m sure we can expect to hear much 
more from Jackson-McCartney.
Finally, for all those Jazz-Fusion fans, 
there is an instrumental piece cowTitten 
with Stanley Clarke called “Hey Hey.” 
Clarke’s emphasis is extremely present; in 
fact one could almost wonder what input 
McCartney had in writing the piece. It is a 
funky, jazzy interlude on the album.
Of course, there is some of McCartney’s 
famed silliness (“Someone’s Knockin’ at the 
Door” comes to mind here) in “Sweetest 
Little Show” and “Average Person.” In fact, 
Pipes of Peace seems to have at least one 
song for nearly everybody. Granted, 
McCartney does tend to aim to a commercial 
audience, but behind that commercial 
facade is a strong album, one which will no 
doubt please everyone who owns a copy of 
it.
and philosophy at Dartmouth College 
where he worked with Allison Chase and 
the Pilobolus Dance Theatre.
The December concert will also showcase 
two premieres choreographed and dancec} 
by the Alloy’s co-artistic directors, Elsa 
Limbach and Susan Gillis. Limbach will 
I "he final work on the program, Drifters, 
is a return perfonnance of last season's pre­
miere by J. Michael Kane. Set to an inspired
sWordance offered to CMU
Dance Alloy presents premieres
By S. PETRIE
Tartan Entertainment Editor
Mozart’s The Magic Flute has delighted 
audiences since its debut in Vienna in 1791 
and the Pittsburgh Opera’s production of 
this beloved opera last weekend maintained 
its charming quality. Although 
a little too contemporary for a 
real opera-diehard, the libretto, 
written in English by Andrew 
Porter, was quite entertaining.
The Magic Flute is long, filled with com­
plex, intricate themes dealing with the 
intangible aspects of human existence. The 
primary theme is that of good versus evil, 
and how one may determine just how far he 
should search for truth.
The story is not completely atypical of 
most opera tales, but it takes rather a unique 
angle toward resolving man’s unfulfilled 
needs and drives. A lonely, lost prince finds 
himself suddenly challenged by a dragon, 
and falls faint before realizing that he is 
saved by the quick intervention of three 
“special ladies.” From here, the story 
becomes complicated as the prince is pres­
ented with a portrait of the daughter of the 
Queen of Night (whose difficult role was 
brilliantly portrayed by Sally Wolf), who 
apparently rules over the land where Prince 
Tamino found himself.
Overcome with pure, unyielding love for 
the queen’s daughter, Pamina, Tamino is 
persuaded by the Queen to search for her 
daughter who had been abducted by the 
Queen’s arch enemy, Sarastro, High Priest 
of the Sun. Accompanied by Papageno, a 
frivolous, peasant-like birdcatcher who can­
not triumph over his fears of danger, the 
young prince sets off to find his lovely prize.
Tamino is adequately portrayed by John 
Stewart, leading tenor of the Frankfurt 
Opera, w7ho brings to the character just the 
right amount of steadfast dedication to his 
cause. However, most of the leading charac­
Pnnce Tamino charms friendly forest pals with notes from his special instrument in Mozart’s Magic Flute, the latest production of 
the Pittsburgh Opera.
ters of this opera are not able to show off 
their true expertise, as they are seemingly 
subordinated by the joviality and comic wit 
of Papageno. The birdcatcher, preoccupied 
with the idea of marrying his ideal “Papa- 
gena,” was wonderfully played by native 
Pennsylvanian William Parker, who 
appeared to add Broadway play touches to 
his role.
If ever the plot begins to trip over instabil* 
ity, it happens at the point where Tamino 
and Papageno are separated from each other 
for no apparent reason. As Tamino leaves 
for his journey, the three fairies who killed 
the dragon present him with a magic flute, 
used to protect him. We are not told how the 
flute will succeed in this endeavor, but this 
fact does not seem to make a difference.
Another character designed for comic 
relief is the evil Monostatos, an employee of 
Sarastos, to whom we are introduced as 
Papageno discovers Pamina. Monostatos is
a very colorful character, yet his appeal to 
the audience was not overwhelming, 
because of his natural tendency to do evil.
The rape scene didn’t help matters, either.
Marianne Siebel, a Pittsburgher, was 
quite enticing as the innocent, virtuous 
Pamina, but faced the same fate as the other 
leads suffering from a bit of overshadowing
— that of not enough recognition.
Through a maze of truth, nature, wis­
dom, and deceit, the characters finally con­
clude their episode in the dark woods of 
Night and Day. Papageno is rewarded with 
a wife suitable to him (Papagena, played by 
Barbara Aubel) and the two end their perfor­
mance happily singing about all their 
future children — oddly enough, all to be 
named either Papgeno, or Papagena.
Upon the usurping of the Queen of 
Night’s powers, Sarastros gladly unites 
Pamina and Tamino and hands over his
authority and special powers to them. 
Although it is not made inveritably clear, 
Sarastros is not the sinister character wre are 
led to believe he is, and the Queen, driven by 
her insatiable passion for revenge, is finally 
shown to be the wicked witch she really is.
Of course, the light-heartedness of Mozart 
shines through in this serious attempt to 
define truth and goodness, making the 
opera an all-time favorite.
All ends well in this show, and the 
audience is left with a pleasant feeling about 
what they have just seen. The Magic Flute 
ranks as a wonderful choice for children 
never before exposed to opera, just like The 
Nutcracker is for those kids wrho have never 
seen a ballet.
The next opera for the Pittsburgh Opera 
company, under the direction of Tito Capo- 
bianco, is A Masked Ball by Verdi. These 
performances are scheduled for December 8 
and 10.

---------------------------------------------------

Page 12—The Tartan—November 22, 1983
Hunt Library
Fine and Rare Book Room 
Fourth Floor 1:30-4:30 M-F 
Sundays in December 1:00-5:00 
Carnegie-Mellon University
December 1,1983 - January 13,1984
De Laurentiis' new Stephen King film
Dead Zone's best feature is actor Christopher Walken
Band A ctua! Size discusses
start. finish, same in-between
Recently, WRCT disc jockey Chris Zur- 
owski interviewed the members of the band; 
Actual Size: Frank Loretti (piano, organ, 
guitar), Mark Marcinko (bass, vocals) and 
two CMU students Perry Kirk (drums, 
vocals) and Jamie Panzer (vocals, guitar).
Tartan: How did the band get together? 
The history of Actual Size.
Frank: First time I met these guys, they 
were playing at a design party at CMU and 
we rented them our P.A. I was playing in 
Ground Zero at the time. So I saw them that 
night and I really liked them.
Jamie: Fie had a lot to drink.
Jamie: We’d go over to Hellhouse and 
learn songs and stuff, and he (Mike) came 
over to play with Perry and I.
Mike: I used to go to rehearsal with them, 
and they’d play all their old songs, they had 
about five of them, and then we were trying 
to come up with new material, and we had 
one song, and that was it. They said, 
“Anyone have any ideas for a song?”, and 
everyone goes, “Nope.” Travelled way the 
hell out to Cannonsburg. In his garage.
Tartan: What’s it like playing at the 
Banana compared to the Ballroom on cam­
pus, or a party like last weekend?
Jamie: Any opportunity we have not to 
play at the Banana is fine.
Mike: The Banana is a depressing envir­
onment, everyone’s depressed as soon as they 
walk in, whether they were or not before 
they got there.
Frank: Everyone’s inhibited at the 
Banana for some reason, unless the band’s 
been around for so many years that everyone 
knows them personally.
Tartan: Who does the most songwriting? 
Who writes the lyrics, who writes the music?
Mike: Jamie writes most of the songs. We
do three of mine. We have so much material 
that we can’t play all the songs we have. We 
don’t have time in rehearsal or playing out.
Tartan: How much time do you spend 
practicing? How long does it take to get a 
song ready to play out?
Mike: It varies.
Perry: We do a song called “You’re 
Haunting Me.” We’ve been playing that 
song in different versions for the past two 
years. Other songs take a couple of weeks.
Tartan: In Ground Zero, Frank played 
guitar and now he’s playing keyboard. 
How did that happen?
Frank: I’ve always known how to play 
piano a bit and I play guitar on a few songs.
Mike: Sometimes we’ll be playing and I’ll 
hear something Frank’s playing that I never 
noticed.
Jamie: I still notice that with Mike. Mike’s 
just ever dynamic.
Mike: That’s why I’m not dead yet.
Tartan: How about getting songs on 
RCT?
Jamie: We record at Sound Seven Studios. 
Just went down there and made carts and 
gave them to the station and what was 
played was played.
Tartan: Where have you had the best 
crowds?
Mike: The party last weekend (Halloween 
Design party) was great. Sigma Nu was 
good too. So was the Ballroom last summer.
Jamie: Honesdy, anyplace we can play 
where under twenty-one people can come 
makes for a little more lively atmosphere.
Tartan: Tell about the songs.
Jamie: Actual size is Actual Size. We have 
our influences and I have my influences 
when I write a song, ‘cause I didn’t start 
continued on page 13
Anne Lyon Haight collection of 
Clement C. Moore's 
"Twas the Night Before Christmas"A Visit From St. Nicholas
By CATHERINE McCAFFERTY
Tartan Staffivriter
The good, the bad and the ugly converge 
in Dino De Laurentiis’ film, The Dead 
Zone. The good — in fact, the best — aspect 
of the movie is a production as chilling and 
suspenseful as the Stephen King 
. & novel on which it’s based. The 
bad takes in conspicuously awk­
ward dialogue and frequendy 
flawed direction. The ugly reveals itself in 
graphic — though not gratuitous — suicide 
and murder scenes.
The fascination of the film lies in the story 
of Johnny Smith (Christopher Walken), a 
young teacher who awakes from a five-year 
coma with the “gift” of psychic power. As 
his new ability draws him into increasingly 
complex situations, fascination turns to 
dread. With each psychic flash, the stakes 
becomer higher; media hype over Johnny’s 
first prediction leads to his search for the 
Castle Rock rapist/murderer and a later 
encounter with a deranged rising politician 
(Greg Stillson, played by Martin Sheen). As 
circumstances build around him, Johnny’s 
control over his life and his power dwindles, 
until he is left with only one choice to make.
Of necessity, the film is a gready simpli­
fied version of King’s book. Jeffrey Boam’s 
screenplay compacts the several plot lines 
remarkable well, and admirably reproduces 
their full effect. It is considerably less suc­
cessful in its rendering of dialogue. There 
are lines that are stiff. There are lines that are 
unnatural.
Moments like these are not helped by 
David Cronenberg’s uneven direction. At 
his best, he continues the story line through 
smooth transitions from the realistic present 
to the psychic future (particularly well done
at the film’s conclusion). At his worst, Cro­
nenberg makes abrupt shifts between pres­
ent moments and renders highly emotional 
scenes as highly artificial. As Johnny, his 
father, his former girlfriend Sarah (who 
married during his coma) and Sarah’s little 
boy share dinner, the natural ease of the 
scene is trampled by Cronenberg’s insistence 
on closing in on each face separately. Sar­
ah’s (Brook Adams) tears after her first reun­
ion with Johnny have a mime quality to 
them; the viewer can see her crying hysteri­
cally in her car, but the absence of sound (the 
windows are rolled up) makes the moment
almost comical.
Despite these hindrances, Christopher 
Walken gives a sympathetic, yet frighten­
ingly convincing performance. In scenes 
such as his confrontation with Bannerman, 
he demonstrates a talent largely squandered 
in the film. Herbert Lorn, as Johnny’s doc­
tor, contributes a consistently sound and 
believable performance. Brooke Adams, on 
the other hand, seems double hampered by 
the spotty dialogue and a lack of depth. 
Similarly, Martin Sheen seems to have 
played politicians once too often to give the 
role much thought. His performance is
respectable, but easily upstaged by his 
swarthy and menacing bodyguard (Geza
Kovacs).
Fortunately, the actors’ work stands apart 
from the inevitable violent scenes in the 
film. The Dead Zone is not a blood-and-guts 
film in the tradition of Halloween et al. 
Though Cronenberg makes the most of the 
gory scenes he has, he wisely contains them 
in the context of the plot. Instead of relying 
on “action,” The Dead Zone works through 
its story — and if one doesn’t look at tech­
nique too closely, the total effect is 
unnerving.
ACTUAL SIZE

---------------------------------------------------

DOES THIS LOOK LIKE A 
SEMICONDUCTOR
CHIP?
November 22. 1983—The Tartan—Page 13
Digital Test Systems has been the industry leader in the design and manufacture of Automatic Test Equipment (ATE) for over 
15 years. The demand for Automatic Test Equipment to evaluate semiconductor components, completed circuit boards, and 
assembled systems has grown at a rate even faster than that of the electronics market itself
As a Fairchild engineer, you'll be part of a team dedicated to not just the maintenance of the company's leadership, but to 
the furthering of it. To that end, we have an R&D program designed to stretch your skills to the limit, as well as continuing 
educational support and inhouse training to enhance your professional development
We will be conducting We will be conducting
on-campus Interviews group presentations
November 29 & 30 November 28
See your Placement Office for details, or send a letter of interest to Fairchild Digital Test Systems, University Relations,
1725 Technology Drive, San Jose, CA 95115. As an affirmative action employer we encourage women, members of 
minority groups, veterans, and the handicapped to apply
Morning After 
Treatment
“a second chance 
at birth control”
FOR MORt INFORMATION CALL362-2920
Available at
AUwhpftV Mrdkil Cfnlrr («I luildin I-I Vi... - ». y Peni hou»* High* (8th floor)r^C)fTl€n S 211 North Whitfield Street( Pittsburgh, PA 15206
FAIRCHILD
A Schlumberger Company
Slow Dance" 
it Playhouse
lediocre
VINCENT GUINTO
rlon Contributing Editor
Last weekend marked the end of Point 
rk College Theatre Company’s run of 
illiam Hanley’s Slow Dance on the Kil- 
g Ground at the Pittsburgh Playhouse. 
As usual, the company's produc­
tion, although not bad, didn’t 
do anything to warrant the 
adjective “good.”
Slow Dance concerns a night’s events in a 
all, out-of-the-way shop in Brooklyn, 
las, an apparent Nazi concentration camp 
ivor, is minding the store in his own 
iet way when his solitude is interrupted 
st by Randall, a young black man run- 
ing from something unknown, then by 
osie, a writer suffering an unwanted preg- 
ncy. The play progresses from revelation 
revelation, delving ever deeper into the 
aracters’ lives.
Point Park’s sets have to be some of the 
ost elaborately constructed in Pittsburgh, 
d Slow Dance was no exception. The play 
as staged in the Playhouse Theatre Gen- 
r’s Theatre Downstairs, which provides a 
onderfully homey atmosphere to any pro- 
uction. Lighting, sound, and direction 
ere all respectable.
The production’s flaw was the acting, 
avid Whalen (Glas) and Sheila McKenna 
osie) were adequate, but not outstanding, 
for Gregory Gibson Kenney (Randall), 
is powerful and energetic performance 
uld easily have made him the star of the 
ow, except for a distracting and down- 
ight frustrating tendency to stumble over 
is lines. I saw Slow Dance on the next to 
e last night of the run, and by then would 
ave expected one of the leads to have his 
lines down pretty well, but no luck this time. 
I Slow Dance on the Killing Ground epi-
¦ omized many of the strengths and wea­
knesses of Playhouse productions: it was 
Bnexpensive, convenient to campus, and
interesting, but it lacked anything especially 
¦ worthwhile. The production worked, and 
provided an interesting evening’s entertain-
¦ nent; still, the show was simply not good
¦ nough to stick in your memory.
New head at 
i & S library
Patricia A. FitzGerald has been appointed 
lead of engineering and science libraries at 
arnegie-Mellon University.
She came to Camegie-Mellon from the 
niversity of Delaware where she was asso- 
iate reference librarian for science and 
upervisor of branch libraries. Prior to join­
ts the University of Delaware, FitzGerald 
ivas geology librarian at Syracuse 
University.
1 it/Gerald has had extensive experience 
in computer-based reference services for 
science and engineering, according to Tho- 
Jptes J. Michalak, director of university 
| libraries at CMU. She recently co-authored a 
omputer-assisted instruction program on 
leveloping library skills.
December 7 brings Genesis to the Civic Arena. The British trio of Tony Banks, Mike 
Rutherford, and Phil Collins is touring in support of their recent Atlantic release, Genesis.
Guilty or not:
continued from page 12
playing ‘til I was 18.1 wish I could go back 
to die days when I could just listen to a song 
and not try to figure out how it was put 
together.
Mike: You lose your subjectivity.
Jamie: Words are important to me in 
most songs, some lyrics are throwaway, but 
most of them aren’t. It’s hard to get music to 
match the feeling of the lyrics, and vice 
versa. When we play live, it’s distressing to 
me when I have to yell to sing, ‘cause I want
A dual Size
the words to be understood. I don’t want to 
be a screamer, unless it’s appropriate.
Perry: These are cliches and colloquial­
isms that people understand in different 
contexts, but they can also make a point.
Frank: But they also have a meaning in 
them.
Tartan: And what meaning is that?
Jamie: Lets put it this way. If you were 
feeling guilty and I was guilty, would you be 
feeling me?
Perry: Jesus. Goodbye.
Sax player 
plays with 
Stock's group
Eric Kloss, internationally acclaimed sax­
ophonist and native Pittsburgher, will show 
that Music Lives', on the third concert of this 
season of the Pittsburgh New Music Ensem­
ble, David Stock, conductor. The concert 
will be held on Sunday, December 4,1983, at 
8 p.m. in the Chatham College Chapel.
Kloss will premiere the ensemble version 
of Daniel Goode’s Walk-Up Passacaglia, 
originally performed as a trio. The piece 
will feature Kloss, Frank Giasulloon piano, 
the composer on clarinet, and the Ensemble.
Neva Pilgrim, soprano, will perform 
Black Magic, White Magic by Gerold Levin­
son, based on poetry by the composer’s wife, 
Nan Valen. This is Pilgrim’s third annual 
appearance with the Ensemble.
Also featured on this concert will be On 
Chestnut Ridge, composed for the Aeolian 
Chamber Players. Written by John Beale of 
West Virginia University, the piece is based 
on Appalachian music. On Shooting Stars 
by Australian composer Vincent Plush com­
bines the populist element of Chilean music 
with the music of Chilean national V ictor 
Jara.
The Pittsburgh New Music Ensemble 
plays exclusively works by 20th century 
composers, with an emphasis on American 
composers. Conductor Stock gives a com­
mentary on each piece during the concert 
and a “Meet the Composer” get-together is 
held after each performance so the audience 
can meet living, breathing composers and 
musicians in a relaxed atmosphere.
Tickets for the concert are available at the 
door for $5, with half-price discounts for 
students and senior citizens. For further 
information call 261-2028.
it's not.
It's just one of the many 
large-scale systems pro­
duced by Fairchild Digi­
tal Test Systems in San 
Jose, California. Many 
people think that Fairchild is only a semicon­
ductor company, and we'd like to set the 
record straight.
EE & CS GRADUATES

---------------------------------------------------

Saturday, December 3 
6:30 p.m. 
Ski bo Ballroom, 
Carnegie-Mellon University
$7.00 ye CMU students 
(credit will be given 
to contract holders) 
$9.00 ye other nobility 
$4.50 wee children
/
mGmm<
rrr v.'w«:
¿tit
fe5«f%L
&
¦'.I /* J.pi#
iat gf ?11 *>. 3fe4'%Ss30jape* m*«’
»ag*#
H
YE OLDE
MADRIGAL 
FEAST
A Toast to the Holiday Season
Entertainment will be prov ided by the Chamber Choir and friends-Ye guests are 
invited to wear traditional clothe •••Tickets are now on sale Monday-Friday, 9~5, at 
the CMU Skibo Information Desk — Please make reservations before Thursday, 
December 1 ••• For more information call 578*2107 ........ CMU Student Activities

---------------------------------------------------

Sports.
Tartans Jose heartbreaker, 16-14
By RIC MEDROW
KTartan Sports Editor
Reported, by Ric Medrow, Christopher D. 
Lewis, and Neil J. Greenblum
The Southern Region Championship 
eluded the Tartans by three inches. With 
2:04 left in the contest, the Tartans trailed 
Salisbury State College of Maryland by two 
points, 16-14. The ball was snapped off the 
muddy field to the 25-yard line, and popped 
up. Holder Roger Roble did a great job in 
flipping the ball and setting it for the field 
^goal attempt. However, while Roble was 
; flipping the ball, kicker Rob Fleischman 
had to hesitate. Fleischman hit it hard, but 
his timing was thrown off.
C bach Chuck Klausing commented, 
“The official said it looked like it was 
through, and then it curved.”
The Tartans came so close to victory that 
Seagull Head Coach Mike McGlinchey was 
already “preparing the two-minute-offense’’ 
for a desperate comeback attempt before the 
. ¿eferee ruled the kick no good.
The Tartans and Seagulls matchup was 
'unbelievably close. Both teams use the 
wing-T offense and a similar defense. 
Neither team had been shut down running 
this year. Both have consistently efficient 
quarterbacks. The difference was simple.
The field was a swamp. The traction fora 
running back was almost non-existent. 
Noting the condi dons after arriving Thursday 
night, McGlinchey restructured his offense 
to suit the muddy conditions, which were 
L-more conducive to a more open offense.
“We’ve run the wing-T all year,” said 
McGlinchey. “But we aren’t crazy. When we 
saw how muddy the field was, we felt we had 
to open up the offense."
On the first Seagull score, Salisbury St. 
proved McGlinchey knew what he was talk­
ing about. Quarterback Robb Disbennett 
dropped back and “shoveled” the ball on a 
forward lateral to running back Dwayne 
Humenik. The Tartan defense was caught 
totally unaware, and Humenik went 35 
. yards for the touchdow n. The slippery field 
^conditions contributed to Salisbury St. 
kicker George Williams’ missed extra point.
Wingback Joe Vasalani tied it up with a 
three yard plunge six minutes later, and 
Fleischman’s point-after gave the Tartans a
|»h(X<> bv John Rogrrs
Despite being hit hard, receiver Roger Roble held on for a 14-yard reception.
Harriers earn 12th in USA
By DAVE LAFYATIS
Tartan Staffwriter
It was the end of a long and difficult 
season. Saturday afternoon in Newport, Vir­
ginia, the CMU cross country team finished 
in twelfth place in a field of the thirty best 
teams in the nation. It was a rather disap­
pointing ending for Gary' Mecklev’s harri­
ers, who had hope to place somewhere in the 
top 10 in the country.
The course in Newport, Virginia was 
extremely flat. The sun shone brightly at the 
start of the race, and the temperature was in 
the 65-70 degree range. From the very begin­
ning of the race, this Tartan team went for 
the front. Starting right next to eventual 
National Champion Brandeis, the 1 artans 
went out quickly and were in good position 
early. The race’s fast early pace hurt the 
Tartans, however. Ihe leaders passed the 
mile mark in 4:30, and then finished the 
second mile in 9:16. Ihe Tartans were near 
the front at this point, but soon they 
couldn’t hold on any longer. By the \ mile 
mark, it was obvious the CMU was strug­
gling. When the race ended, the top two 
Tartans were John \Vessels in 29th plate 
and Thom Bell in 54th place, Wessels nar­
rowly missing All-American honors by a 
scant four places. Kevin Brewer, Mike Short 
and John McGowan rounded out the top
five CMU runners.
“The pace was just too fast,” stated Meck- 
ley afterwards. “We started right next to 
Brandeis, and I think that a couple of our 
guys tried to run with Brandeis and burned 
themselves out early. If we would have tried 
to run a more even pace, I think we would 
have finished better. At about the 3 mile 
mark we were in position to finish in the tp 
five, but we just couldn’t hold on.” One 
bright spot that Meckley noted was that the 
Tartans avenged Franklin and Marshall, 
who had beaten them in the Eastern Region­
al last week, by beating them soundly at the 
Nationals.
So the cross country team ended another 
impressive campaign. They finished as 
PAC champions, and worn numerous Di­
vision III championships. Diev took another 
trip to the Nationals, and finished a respec­
table 12th place. Hie Nationals, however, 
marked the final race for many of CMU’s 
fine runners. John Wessels, Mike Short. 
John McGowan, Kevin BrewerrBob Rusch 
and Chris Shafer are all seniors. Next year. 
Coach Meckley will have to rebuild his 
team, starting with Thom Bi ll as a hase. H$ 
is optimistic, though. “Next year we will 
have a fresh start. It will be good to get some 
new blood. Fhis group erf seniors accomp­
lished a lot over their four years here, but it is 
time for a new* beginning.’’
7-6 lead.
That gave Salisbury St. 46 seconds of two- 
minute offense in the first half. The Gulls 
capitalized, moving quickly into range for a 
44-yard Larry Schreidegger field goal. The 
Tartans trailed 9-7 at the half.
Disbennett continued to pick apart the 
CMU pass defense, completing 18 of 20 
passes for a remarkable 90% completion per­
centage. By the beginning of the fourth 
quarter, the Gulls had taken a 16-7 lead on 
yet another pass, this time to running back 
Joey Slaughter.
That’s when the Tartans opened up their 
offense. In a little over two minutes, Tartan 
quarterback Dave Zito had moved his team 
down field for a touchdown on a roll-out 
play from three yards out.
On.the next possession, Zito moved the 
Tartans 62 yards in five plays. That set up 
the fateful, failed field goal attempt.
Klausing disagrees with the assertion that 
the Tartans should have opened up earlier. 
“We’ve run on everybody all year. You’ve 
gotta go with your strength.”
Another problem CMU had was conver­
sion of the first down on short yardage. As 
Zito said, “When you get third and short 
yardage, you expect to be able to get the first 
down.” It’s a problem the Tartans have had 
for sometime: Saturday it made a
difference.
Perhaps the most profound difference, 
strangely enough, was in the kind of schools 
that played each other Saturday. The Gulls 
were bigger than the Tartans. Their largest 
player was 60 pounds heavier than our heav­
iest. Klausing remarked, “They are state col­
lege kids: bigger, faster, stronger." And 
because SSC is a state school, academics 
aren’t stressed there as much as at CMU.
Klausing said, “We go out there and have 
fun playing Saturday ,”
Offensive guard Cam Poluszek added, 
“We just sit back and enjoy it. We had 
nothing to be sad about."
After the game, Klausing gathered his 
players together. They said a short prayer, 
and Klausing told the players “how proud I 
was and that they had done their very best.” 
The season was over for the Tartans.
Hie Seaeulls, however, move on to the
Senior co-captain Joe Nardone was coated with Tech Field mud.
second round of playoffs. McGlinchey 
explains that the reason the Gulls will be 
there is “the attitude of our players. They just 
won’t cheat themselves on sprints or flexibil­
ity exercises.”
Humenik adds, “I guess we just wanted it 
more. I know I wanted it more than any of 
those guys (the Tartans).”
As Klausing says, “You win a few, you 
lose a few — then you pray for rain.”

---------------------------------------------------

Page 16—The Tartan—November 22, 1983
ByPAU
Vasalani quietly breaks PAC scoring records
Senior “white” team wingback Joe Vasalani moves to halfback when the Tartans go to their short yardage power-1
photo by John Rogers
CUSTOMER INFORMATION FROM GENERAL MOTORS
RECALLS: WHY THEY OCCUR. 
HOW TO ANSWER ONE ON YOUR CAR.
When General Motors 
orders a recall, we believe we 
are providing an important 
service to our customers and 
showing again how GM stands 
behind its products.
Every car we manufacture 
has 14,000 or so parts which 
must be interchangeable. Al­
though the reliability of parts in 
GM cars rivals that of the parts 
we supply for lunar rockets or 
for commercial jets, problems 
sometimes occur and probably 
always will.
You can’t repeal the law 
of probability. Somewhere a 
machine tool may wear unex­
pectedly fast, or a material may 
have an invisible contamina­
tion.
General Motors tests its 
vehicles for millions of the 
dirtiest, dustiest, roughest, 
coldest, hottest miles imagin­
able. We even put our newly 
developed vehicles and parts 
into thousands of taxis and 
other fleets in dozens of loca­
tions all over North America. 
The goal: to put on real-life 
mileage fast. But even this is 
not the same as billions of miles 
driven by customers through 
every possible road, climate 
and maintenance condition.
Then the law of probability 
comes into play, especially since 
we produce millions more vehi­
cles for North America than any 
other manufacturer. Although 
all car and truck manufacturers 
—both foreign and domestic— 
have recalls, we’re a little 
more noticeable because of our 
numbers.
If you receive a recall no­
tice on your car, you may feel 
like taking a gamble and ignor­
ing it. Please don’t. Answer it 
promptly. Follow the instruc­
tions in the letter. Recalls are 
initiated to protect your safety 
or to keep your car in good run­
ning order.
We publicize recalls so 
car owners will be aware of 
them. By federal regulation, 
General Motors has to notify 
owners by letter and report to 
the government on the prog­
ress of a recall for 18 months. 
We go beyond the federal 
requirements. GM dealers 
send follow-up letters to 
owners if no response is 
received the first time. In 
addition, GM dealers can use 
our CRIS (Computerized Recall 
Identification System) to tell 
you instantly of any recall work 
necessary on a vehicle recalled 
during the last 7 years. This 
is important to know when buy­
ing a used car. Ask any GM 
dealer for this information.
If you hear on television 
or radio of a recall which 
you think applies to your car, 
please follow these steps for 
your convenience.
— First, wait until you receive 
a letter from us saying your 
car has been recalled. It may 
take some time before mail­
ing lists can be compiled and 
parts can be distributed to 
the dealers.
— Then call your dealer and 
give him the recall campaign 
number supplied in the letter. 
He will arrange an appoint­
ment to have the repairs 
made. This could save you 
time and could help the deal­
er to schedule his busy ser­
vice department.
If you have read or heard 
in the media about a recall 
campaign, but don’t receive 
a letter within a month, ask
your dealer to check the dealer 
bulletin or CRIS to see if your 
vehicle is affected. Give the 
dealer your vehicle identifica­
tion number, which you’ll find 
on your car’s title, registration 
or warranty folder. It can also 
be found on the instrument 
panel just inside the windshield 
on the driver’s side.
There are cases in which 
the auto manufacturers and the 
government differ over the 
seriousness of a problem. And 
these instances sometimes re­
ceive a great deal of publicity. 
But such situations are the ex­
ception.
Almost all of our recalls 
are voluntarily started by 
General Motors before the 
government is involved.
If your car needs to be re­
called for any reason, please 
don’t ignore the notice. Taking 
care of those problems in your 
car is good for you and good 
for us.
This advertisement is part 
of our continuing effort to give 
customers useful information 
about their cars and trucks 
and the company that builds 
them.
Chevrolet • Pontiac 
Oldsmobile • Buick 
Cadillac • GMC Truck
By NEIL J. GREENBLUM
Tartan Staff writer 9 1
Wingback Joe Vasalani broke two Presi- >t
dent’s Athletic Conference (PAC) records >t
this past season. He scored 13 conference ^
touchdowns and 78 total points, surpassing e
marks of 12 and 74, respectively, set by v
former CMU running back Jeff Harrison in s
1980. ls
“I haven’t done anything special. Anyone ,r 
could’ve done it. I think too much has been 
made out of it,” responds the senior from r' 
McKees Rocks. ‘‘The (offensive) line gave usluir 
(the running backs) the best holes I’ve seen ? *' 
in my four years here. They really got the job c 
done.”
Regardless of the offensive line’s perfor­
mance, Vasalani had an outstanding year.
For the second consecutive year, the 
mechanical engineering major finished 
second on the Tartans in rushing. In addi­
tion to his 14 touchdowns, Vasalani 
had 103 carries for 447 yards for an average of 
4.3 yards per carry. He also caught two 
passes for 74 yards, including a 67-yard scor­
ing stike from quarterback Dave Zito. «
According to the 6', 200 pound veteran, 
the highlight of Vasalani’s college football 
career was making the playoffs this year. 
“I’ve never been on an undefeated team, nor 
have I ever been on a team that made any 
sort of playoffs. We won the PAC my sopho­
more year, but it was a little empty. This 
year was the most exciting year.” Vasalani 
adds, “This was the first year I was able to 
stay uninjured.” _ 11
Injuries were a problem to Vasalani in"3“' 
high school. At Montour H, S.,” a pinched* 1 
nerve kept me on and off the field”, but 11 
Vasalani was on the field enough senior year 
to gamer all-conference honors as a full­
back, linebacker, and placekicker. “Vas” s 
was also voted most valuable player on the • 
track team for three years, participating in - 
the long jump, triple jump, shotput, and 
discus events.
The “Montour Missile”, a name given to 
Vasalani by veteran sportscaster Bob Prince 
during the wingback’s freshman campaign, 
was named to the PAC’s first team for th<* 
second time in his career. As a sophomore, 
Vasalani was an all-conference pick while 
he led the Tartans in rushing and scoring.
These past four years have been good for 
Joe Vasalani. Sophomore guard Rob Cor- 
tazzo said, “We’re losing some good play­
ers.” He must have had Vasalani in mind.
Sales People Needed 
High Commissions 
Work your own hours 
Must famish own car 
Growth Opportunity 
462-5524
allegheny
reproductive
health
center
abortion 
menstrual extraction
free pregnancy testing 
vd and contraceptive care
all services confidential
121 s. highland ave., 
Pittsburgh 
363-1107T

---------------------------------------------------

November 22, 1983—The Tartan—Page 17
enguins need some breaks to rebuild
di
LESLEY BRUNKER
n Staffurriter
uilding a championship hockey team 
the gound up is a tremendous process, 
h to watch and to experience. The team’s 
totypes may not be earth-shattering, but 
final product is certainly worth the wait, 
e Philadelphia Flyers of the early seven- 
and the New York Islanders of the late 
enties to early eighties are both teams 
ilt from next to nothing with six Stanley 
p championships between them, 
ebuilding is not as much fun. It’s hard 
teams to take the step back from good to 
iocre or from mediocre to bad in the 
me of future success. Some teams are very 
ept at slipping a bit, giving themselves a 
transfusion and roaring back as if 
ev’d never been gone. The Montreal Cana- 
ans, perennial leaders who usually take 
Bie or two championships a decade, are 
I asters of this.
I The Philadelphia Flyers are not. They 
B?gan rebuilding around the 1978-79 sea- 
l>n, and haven’t made much progress. 
I oach Bob McCammon was fired in the 
H)ring of that season. He was replaced by 
I at Quinn, who was about as young and 
Biexperienced (in coaching terms) as his 
¦ layers. The team picked up under Quinn, 
Ind though they lost early in the playoffs, 
I ley were given added approval by fans and 
|iedia.
In 1979-80, after being destroyed 9-2 in the 
cond game of the season by a badly out­
played Atlanta (now' Calgary), the young, 
experienced team was given the go-ahead 
I o play as well as they could without fear of 
I rade or demotion. The team subsequently 
I vent on a 35 game unbeaten streak, a pro- 
I essional sports record. Not bad. Pete Peeters 
let a rookie goaltender’s unbeaten record of 
I wenty-nine games. Not bad. After the streak 
1‘nded in a 7-1 loss to Minnesota, the team 
I oasted through the last half of the season in 
I leutral. Not good.
I Since then, the team has been running[
ike a hamster in a wheel. Too many goalies 
vith too much talent vying for one top posi- 
ion. Too many key defensemen injured, an 
| astounding glut of inexperience around the 
rest. The forwards were a strange mixture of 
the geritol generation and the peach fuzz 
kids. Last spring, McCammon replaced his 
successor, and general manager Keith (the 
thief) Allen, one of rhe National Hockey 
League’s most respected general managers 
was fired. — .....
What happened? How could so intui­
tively simple an act as rebuilding cause so 
many problems in what had previously 
been a very stable organization? One big 
reason: the press. The most demonstrative 
example of the difficulties they have created 
came during the streak. The Flyers started 
out to rebuild. They began to win (nine of 
the twenty-five wins of the streak came in itsI
 first nine games). As the numbers grew' 
larger, so did the publicity and the concom- 
ltant pressure. They began playing to not 
lose rather than to win. Not u
- 1 ""aaeiphia press is to this date hyperac-
ITie goalies are walking on eggshells. 
t,x defensive mistake is expoundedin
Alone & Pregnant? 
Need Help?
Free Pregnancy TestingIor a confidential friend call:
LIFELINE
Downtown Pgh 562-0543
Beaver County 843-0505
Mon Valley 489-9020
Butler County 282-1200
detail. Forward lines are scrutinized, ana­
lyzed, and either panned or glorified. Two 
high prospects, Behn Wilson (“the next 
Bobby Orr”) and Ken Linseman (“the next 
Bobby Clarke”) were debilitated by press 
hype and resultant fan reactions. Young­
sters Brian Propp and Pete Peeters were 
known for their press relations, Propp for 
his poor interview's and Peeters for hiding in 
the shower. Newsmen agonized over the 
infamous “goalie situation,” (too many via­
ble candidates for the job). How can any 
team function normally w hen every move is 
chronicled and debated? Falling attendance 
— though to levels well above the league 
norm — made it “necessary” according to 
press men to slow down building and 
increase winning.
Which brings us to Pittsburgh. Yes, they 
had a horrendous start. Yes, nine of the 
twenty-four players now on their roster — 
that’s over a third — w eren’t here a year ago. 
Yes, while they’re second to last in the 
Patrick Division, the last place team has 
four points and they would be last in any 
other division. And yes, they traded their 
first round draft pick after placing his name 
in the team’s promise for the future.
But since their 1-7-0 start, the Pens are 
4-5-2. Their offense is moving and cranked 
out 37 shots in last Wednesday’s 3-2 loss to 
Toronto. Last year, the entire team stood on 
the wTong side of the plus/minus ratings; 
this year, several players are even (0) and a 
few are plus. Their team goals against aver­
age is far from last place. In fact, they’re 
allowing even fewer goals than the Canadi­
ans or the Islanders.
So let’s give them a break. They’re young; 
let them leam and make mistakes. Press crit­
icism and fan analysis is not constructive 
but detrimental. Let them work through in 
a sometimes clumsy, occasionally brilliant 
way. Let them make the rookie mistakes 
everyone makes. And above all, give them 
time./M Report
By SEAN QUINN
Tartan Staffurriter
It’s been a victorious past two weeks for 
some teams in intramural water polo, tennis 
and volleyball. In volleyball, the women’s 
champion is SUPA, who defeated Chi 
Omega in a hard-fought match, 15-13, 13- 
15,15-10. In minors, the champs are Spikers- 
Oliver and in intermediates the winner is 
Tesla. The tennis co-kings are GSIA and 
Doherty. The finals were not played due to 
bad weather. And in water polo, the top 
dogs are SAE.
In other IM news, 3-person volleyball 
began on Monday; schedules are on the bul­
letin board. Darts, backgammon, and wres­
tling will begin soon; check the board.
photo by Steve Winawer 
The Tartans face off against Penn State and Bethany in the upcoming weeks.
Katz leads hockey
By JOHN KENNEY
Tartan Staffurriter
The Camegie-Mellon Ice Tartans upped 
their undefeated record to 5-0 last week by 
defeating West Virginia University on Sun­
day and Indiana University of Pennsylvania 
on Wednesday night. Forward Rob Katz, the 
Tartan’s leading scorer (eight goals, three 
assists), led the offense again with three 
goals and one assist over the two games.
On Sunday afternoon CMU dominated 
the Mountaineers and outscored them 4-1. 
Katz started the Tartans with two goals at 
the beginning of the game.
West Virginia then battled back with a 
goal early in the third period. CMU came 
back with a vengeance after this shakeup, 
and their superior skating enabled them to 
score twice in the next four minutes. The 
first goal by Bill Hevse and the next by Dave 
Ahlberg resulted in the'4-1 score.
The Tartan defense was wlt^ a
fine game a&Tim A ed Dawson, Tim
Carlin, faul Russo, and goalie Bob Kosa- 
kowski kept their league leading goals 
against average intact.
Wednesday night wras a different story', 
however, and IUP gave the Tartans a son**: 
by scoring the first goal, on apP^a> 
situation late in the firslJR*****1^0 Put CMl 
in a uailin&flP-^1 for lheir firs< “me *is
season. The Ice Tartans kept calm, however, 
and Katz broke the ice in the second period 
with a goal on a backhand shot. Just 22 
seconds later, Dave Debonville scored a spec­
tacular go ahead goal when he outraced an 
opponent to a lead pass from Heyse and 
took it one-on-one against IUP’s goalie, 
beating him with a shot to the upper right 
comer of the net.
In the third period CMU continued to 
heap on the goals, with Heyse and Eric 
Sprey tallying one apiece to put the score at 
4-1. The Indians attempted a comeback, tak­
ing advantage of a CMU penalty to narrow' 
the Tartans’ lead to 4-2. It was just too litde 
too late, however, and forward Steve Kruse’s 
goal in the last five minutes put the game
out of reach for IUP. A fina] «*7' ’ c,y..trie t .• .1 r- -1 -.mesdid them littleIndians in the fina'^ood ^ scoreboard reading CMl
J, lUP 3.
The league-leading Tartans hope to con­
tinue their undefeated streak, as they have 
three remaining home games this semester. 
The first two, against Penn State on Sunday 
Nov. 20 and Bethany on Sat. Dec. 3 will be 
played at Lakevue Ice Palace in Mars, Pa. 
The last game, against Slippery7 Rock at 
12:45 on Sat. Dec. 4 will be the only game 
this semester to be played at the Civic Arena, 
Downtown.
Looking for the excitement of a high quality 
graduate school research 
environment?
The University of Texas Health 
Science Center at Dallas is a 
maior center for research in the 
Biomedical Sciences. 
Opportunities are available for 
highly individualized graduate 
research training programs 
with an outstanding faculty of 
over 250 investigators 
Attractive stipends are available
Areas of specialization
include
Biochemistry
Molecular Biology
Pharmacology
Biophysics
Immunology
Physiology
Cell Biology
Microbiology
For further information contact 
J T Stull. Ph.D.. Associate Dean 
of the Graduate School of 
Biomedical Sciences. University 
of Texas Health Science 
Center. 5323 Harry Hines 
Blvd.. Dallas. Texas 75235 
Phone 214/688-3310
rHSCD is ar 
nversitv
n unity

---------------------------------------------------

Page 18—The Tartan—November 22, 1983
Elliot, Summers, and Nelson are unafraid of the competition
CMU swimmers look to advance with new recruit'.
By MARGARET WISMER
Tartan Staffurriter
This year’s swim team jumps into the 
pre-season with dedication and a lot of 
athletic prowess. Guided by Coach Donna 
Pecman, the co-ed varsity ensemble hopes to 
upgrade their third place status in the Presi­
dent’s Athletic Conference. The team 
climbed two notches last year from fifth. 
With consistent improvement, Pecman fore­
sees an eventual PAC championship, as the 
mosdy freshman and sophomore group 
develops their full potential.
A slew of talented new members, includ­
ing key recruits Steve Francis and Mike Fitz­
gerald, will help maintain third place. They, 
accompanied by incoming surprises John 
Elliot, Rob Summers and Bruce Nelson,
form the basis of a crew unafraid to “face the 
challenges of the upcoming season.” As they 
break in the new year with pre-season action 
against Division II schools, Pecman sees 
these meets as a chance to measure their 
ability. Though dual meet compeution is 
important, Pecman admits that the main 
focus of the team’s training is directed 
toward the PAC championships in Febru­
ary at John Carroll.
“Self-discipline, hurt, and pain” consti­
tutes a large part of that daily routine. Pec­
man strives to make practices a bit 
interesting but admits there is litde substi­
tute for the monotony of swimming for over 
two hours a day, six days a week. She also 
strongly recommends a one hour weight­
lifting program in conjunction with prac­
tice, though admits there often isn’t enough 
time;
Each swimmer concentrates on freestyle 
and some other stroke giving the team added 
strength since six of the eleven events in any 
meet require freestyle. Pecman asserts that 
the athletes confine themselves to a certain 
distance rather than a single stroke, render­
ing the team balanced and well rounded. 
Fundamental logic maintains that a short 
distance backstroker would do as well as a 
long distance freestyler in the 1000 meter 
breaststroke.
The actual PAC season doesn’t start until 
January when the team should be 21 strong. 
According to Pecman three people plan to 
join next semester and the whole group will 
head for Florida over Christmas break.
There, the intense preparation for the < 
son will mandate four-and-a-half hours
swimming daily. With the concentration on
the final February meet, Pecman is looking 
for at least two or three swimmers to qualif, 
for nationals. Among them include the Uk 
sisters, Gina, who qualified last year, and* 
sophomore Patti. Dave Lanette just mis 
qualifying last year and has a g0 
chance of making it this year.
According to Pecman the team has trans­
formed from a bunch of individuals to an I 
integrated group over the past few years. Led I 
by Captains Tom Brevkovsky and Ginal 
Illig they have “pulled together” and! 
“learned to work with one another.” p^l 
man warns to “watch for a wave of exrite | 
ment in the swimming PAC.”
Exploration into George Orwell's futures — March 9-11
A three-day program com mem ora ting 
the 35-year publication anniversary of 
George Orwell’s sadre 1984 will be held 
March 9-11, 1984, Pittsburgh Theological 
Seminary.
The program includes a series of dmely, 
provocative workshops, a lecture and 
accompanying recital on music in the total­
itarian state, an opera production of Gian- 
Carlo Menotti’s “The Consul,” a premier 
orchestral presentation by Duquesne Uni­
versity’s Professor Joseph Wolcox Jenkins, a 
keynote address by Tom Wicker, Associate 
Editor of The New York Times, and 
speeches by local elected officials.
The Pittsburgh Playhouse has also sche­
duled special showings of three films related
to Orwell’s totalitarian theme, “The 
Animal Farm,” “The Trial” and “Missing” 
in its Film Repertory a week prior to 
“George Orwell Days, Pittsburgh, 1984.”
One underlying objective of the program 
is to bridge the age gap and to facilitate 
dialogue and the free exchange of opinions 
between youth and adults. The thrust of the 
dialogue and the underlying focus of the 
event will be the future: What kind of a 
future do we intend to pass on to the next 
generation? Or, what kind of future do we 
expect our parent’s generation to pass on to 
us?
In the light of this goal, an integral seg­
ment of the event is the creative involvement 
of local high school and university students. 
High school teachers will discuss The
¿???'i'*'***'
Ml***4++ +1. .....................
' + + + +4 4*4+4'<++*+44+ 1 + 4 +
*****Follow 5herlock Holmes to tttp bookstoreto UOCOVEi QMr
mystery special...
Wednesday, November 3 8 a.m. - 5 p.m.
CMU BOOKSTORE
Animal Farm and 1984 in their classes, stu­
dents will formulate questions for discus­
sion in the workshops and are invited to 
compete in an essay contest reladng to the 
“George Orwell Days.” Winning essays will 
be readied for publication.
Area universities have included courses 
and programs in which students are produc­
ing printed materials — posters, brochures 
and ardcles, for use in the March program. 
Duquesne University students and profes­
sors are preparing and performing the musi­
cal program.
“George Orwell Days, Pittsburgh 1984” 
was conceived by a Steering Committee 
reflecdng the event’s broad support in the 
Pittsburgh area and chaired by Dr. H. Eber- 
hard von Waldow of the Pittsburgh Theo­
logical Seminary.
Members include: Michael Bierman, Una 
ted Jewish Federation; Stuart Cohen, Urt 
League of Pittsburgh,; Richard A. ElderJ 
American Civil Liberties Union; Dr. Ala 
Facetti, Pittsburgh Board of Public Educa] 
tion; Harold Hendershot, Shadyside 
Academy; Dr. Stanley Herman, Pittsburgh) 
Board of Public Education; Dr. Lee Hicks/j 
Christian Association of Southwest Pen 
nsylvania; Dr. Lynn Hinds; Professor Pete 
Jones, Camegie-Mellon University; John* 
Manear, Diocese of Pittsburgh Schools; Mrs.' 
J. Leo Sheran, Allegheny County League < 
Women Voters; and Clarke Thomas, Pitts­
burgh Post Gazette.
The program is made possible by grants] 
from the Pennsylvania Humanities Coun­
cil, Pittsburgh Foundation, The Buhl 
Foundation, and the Allegheny Conference 
Education Fund.
New album earns recognition
/
By ADAM HAN IN
Tartan Staffurriter
Manhattan Transfer is one of those bands 
that never gets the right recognition. The 
Transfer began their recording career 
attempting to provide relative^ new ver­
sions of old styles of music; in 
other words, the idea was to 
bring the past back to the pres­
ent. In all their albums they 
accomplished this task, every now and then 
getting a little progressive. Along the way 
the Transfer has covered Be-Bop, R&B, 
disco, jazz, swing, and rock-and-roll.
Bodies and Souls follows the “side-name- 
implies-song-types” format (Joe Jackson’s 
Night and Day comes to mind here). Side 
one is labeled “Bodies,” and all of its songs 
deal with people and other material objects. 
Side two is the “Souls” side, and it presents 
more intangible, spiritual songs.
called -Spice oFÍ“* fr'“n th<‘ album is 
well on both the R&B charts doing
charts. It is an upbeat, danceable, jazzy song, 
which features a harmonica solo by Stevie 
Wonder. However, “Spice of Life” is not 
indicative of the rest of the album.
Instead, we are treated to a great variety of 
musical styles. “Code of Ethics” (on the 
“Souls” side) is dedicated to the athletes of 
the 1984 Olympics. It has a highly progres­
sive background, .which makes use of dis­
sonant chords to give it an eerie feeling.
Of course, no Manhattan Transfer album 
would be complete without their traditional 
be-bop song. Bodies and Souls features 
“Down South Camp Meetin’,” a story of a 
revivalist meeting taking place under a big 
tent, set to the tune of an old Benny, Good-, 
man piece. ,
Hie thing inat’s most enjoyable about 
Bodies and Souls, however, is the fact that 
each member of the group takes the lead in 
at least one of the songs. This shows the 
vocal ability of the group as being one of 
high standards. It seems that each member 
could well solo (in fact Janis Siegel released 
a solo LP last year;, but they sound best 
when singing together. Hopefully we’ll 
hear more from Manhattan Transfer in the 
sfiblif£wcyears> for Bodies and Souls really **
deserve. ’ -------,hpv'
[Manhattan Transfer is: Cheryl Bentyne. 
Tim Hauser, Alan Paul, and Janis Siege J
RECORD
RECYCLER
421-2835
con toiiue dupa goeRECORDS
Bought/Sold/Traded
(We Buy Collections)
We also carry a selection of imports, jazz, and 
wave” LP’s, and Blank Tape
5824 Forbes Avenue 
(downstairs)
'new
J

---------------------------------------------------

Announcements
Resumes — Does your resume SELL YOU to 
potential employers? We professionally prepare 
resumes designed to GET RESULTS. Packages 
available — resumes, cover letter, copies, regular 
updating. $20-75. 941-8598.
Convenient-panoramic view “Yours.” Luxur­
ious 2-BR, 2-B condo, oak planked floors in LR 
8c DR, eat in K., laundry, private balcony, 2 gar­
age spaces, pool, sauna, party guest rooms,
124,900. Lois Eisner 683-5800.
Seeking housemate in large house within 5min- 
utes walking of CMU. Private room and bath, 
off-street parking available. Available Dec. 1 or 
Jan. 1. For more information call 683-2717.
Hempfield Recording. Eight track studio includ­
ing ‘state of the art’ digital signal processing 
equipment creates excellent opportunity at reaso­
nable fees. Musicians/music students. 864-0786.
Moving, Moving, Moving! Have been moving 
students since 1977. Call Second Mile Light 
Hauling ask for Vince 231-2766.
Automated Words word processing services. Uni­
versity papers, technical writing, resumes, quick 
tum-around — STUDENT RATES. 751-3141.
Calculus tutor needed immediately for H.S. stu­
dent. Call after 6 p.m. 362-6619.
Part-time babysitter wanted. For infant and 
toddler in our Greenfield home, beginning Janu­
ary. 4-5 hours a day Monday through Friday 
(afternoons preferred). Seeking responsible indi­
vidual with sincere affection for children; interest 
in child development desirable and own trans­
portation preferred. $3.50/hr. Please call 421 - 
4862 for more information.
Behind every successful drum major there's a 
roommate — Thanks, Jen!
JOBS OVERSEAS M/F (including Australia, 
South Pacific, Europe, Africa, Alaska, Cruise 
Ships, Airlines). All Occupations. Temporary 
and Full Time. $20,000 to $60,000. Call Now! 
206-736-5103 EXT 145.
Flying Fingers word processing. Business or aca­
demic, papers, resumes, cover letters, etc. Student 
rates available. Erika Van Sickel 241-1338.
Is it true you can buy jeeps for $44 through the
U.S. Government? Get the facts today! Call (312) 
742-1142 EXT 340I-A.
Will type term papers, dissertations, letters, 
resumes, manuscripts and so forth. Reasonable 
rates. Call Shirley before 9 p.m. 521-0534.
No coincidence: we’ve been serving Squirrel Hill 
area for 454 years. Minute-Maid Services. For the 
best in maids. 682-3860.
Diane’s Secretarial Service. Resumes, academic, 
business and personal typing. Pick up and deliv­
ery' available. 464-1618.
Artist Part-time! Specialize in graphics for col­
lege designs used on athletic apparel and t-shirts. 
Call 243-7755.
Circle Jerks — If you saw them and would like to 
talk about them or other punk bands/attitudes 
(for research purposes) call 363-4297 after 5 p.m.
general
Senior Vice President for Academic Affairs John 
P. Crecine will have open office hours for stu­
dents between 3 and 5 p.m. in his office, 610 
Warner Hall, on Wednesday, November 23. Stu­
dents who wish to meet with Dr. Crecine should 
telephone his office, 578-2956, to set up an 
appointment. Due to a schedule conflict, Dr. Cre­
cine will be unable to hold student hours on 
Monday, December 5.
Anthony N. Penna, Associate H8cSS Dean, will 
have open office hours for students between 2 and 
5 p.m. every Wednesday. Students who wish to 
meet with Dr. Penna should telephone his office, 
578-2830, to set up an appointment.
OE FRESHMANBy Mark Levine
How DO YooV ^.S.T GET OF F-CAMPUS? A ’¿a*rtïnoEEditor
tHIKKA
£HIKM
¿HlKM
DECORATING - THURSDAY, DEC. 8 AT A PM
JUDGING - FRIDAY, DEC. 9 AT 12 PM
RESERVE YOUR TREE NOW BY CONTACTING 
SHERI AT THE SKIBO INFORMATION DESK 
X2107 NO LATER THAN DEC. 2.
THREE PRIZES WILL BE AWARDED ON THE 
BASIS OF CREATIVITY, INGENUITY, AND 
VISUAL IMPRESSION.
SPONSORED BY OFFICE OF 
STUDENT ACTIVITIES

---------------------------------------------------

Page 20—The Tartan—November 22, 1983
more general
The office of Professor Fougeres has been moved 
to BH 228D. The students who take Self-Paced 
French, 82-103, will meet now in Margaret Morri­
son 408 instead of in Baker Hall 232-F, which is 
in the process of getting demolished and then 
rebuilt for other purposes. Every’ once in a while 
please also look at the BBoard “82-103," where 
you may find various kinds of announcements, 
warnings, tips, etc., relating to the course.
Oakland Review, CMU’s literary magazine, is 
now accepting submissions of poetry', fiction, 
one-act plays, black and white drawings, prints, 
and photography, for its 1984 edition. All writing 
submissions should include a cover sheet, and 
may be placed at Skibo Information Desk c/o 
Editor, Oakland Review. Art submissions may be 
placed there, or at Room 302, College of Fine 
Arts. Deadline is February 1,1984.
AIESEC, the International Association of Stu­
dents in Economics and Business Management, 
will hold its weekly meeting Wednesday at 4:30 
in Room 11, Skibo. Students of all majors are 
invited to participate in AIESEC’s international 
exchange and management development 
programs.
A $1,000 grand prize will be offered in a poetry 
contest sponsored by the World of Poetry newslet­
ter. There are an additional 99 prizes worth over 
$10,000. For a free brochure of rules and prizes 
write World of Poetry', 2431 Stockton Blvd., Dept. 
P, Sacramento, California 95817.
Anyone that wishes to see Japanese offered at 
CMU and is interested in taking the course 
should sign the petition on the Student Senate 
office door, Skibo 59.
Camegie-Mellon Investment Group meets every' 
Thursday at 6:30 in Skibo Room 11. All inter­
ested people are welcome.
The Penn Hills Players announce auditions for 
their new winter season production of Lcn>es and 
Marriage, a trilogy by Anton Chekhov. Audi­
tions will be held at the Penn Hills Library at 8 
p.m. on Monday, Dec. 5 and Tuesday, Dec. 6. 
The cast includes 6 men and 3 women. Perfor­
mances will be the first weekend in February, 
1984. Directing this production will be Michele 
Bartos, Brenda Caugherty and John Powers. For 
further information, call 793-0857.
Tech House: CMU’s on-campus coop is looking 
for men and women interested in living in a 
unique community this coming spring semester. 
Call 621 -2911 as soon as possible or stop by, we’re 
right next to Donner Hall.
You are invited to an Informal Bible Discussion 
group that meets on Monday nights at 9, in 
Room 39 Skibo. We are a nondenominational 
group. We look at subjects and situations that 
affect campus life directly from the Bible, accord­
ing to God’s Word. Stop by, and feel free to bring 
a friend with you. If you want more information, 
call ei ther 441 -0819 or 361 -5632 and ask for John.
Roman Catholic Mass: Sunday Mass: 10:30 a.m. 
on Sunday morning, and 7 p.m. on Sat. evening 
in Hunt Multipurpose Room. Daily Mass at 
12:30 p.m. in Skibo Room 39 Monday through 
Friday.
Been to confession lately? It’s never too late to go 
again, you know. See one of the priests at 1 p.m. 
Monday through Friday in Skibo 39 (catch them 
after the daily mass) or call the Oratory at 681- 
3181 for an appointment.
events
Tuesday Night Reading Series at 8:30 p.m, the 
Back Room of Hemingway's (formerly Gus- 
tine’s) on 3911 Forbes Avenue. Featuring: 
November 22 — Presentational Reading: 
November 29 — Don Petesch (poetry) and 
Natalie Petesch (fiction).
University of Pittsburgh Piano Recital Series
continues with a performance by Alberto Pome- 
ranz, Tuesday, Nov. 29, 8:30 p.m. at the Frick 
Fine Arts Auditorium, Oakland. The varied pro­
gram includes “Eleven Pieces for Children” by 
Casella, Liszt’s “Annees de Pelerinage: Italie,” 
two Rossini preludes, and “Pictures at an Exhibi­
tion” by Mussorgsky.
Bom in Rome, Pomeranz has performed 
throughout Europe and in North and South 
America. Among his recordings are the posthum­
ous works of Chopin and piano pieces by 
Rossini.
Pomeranz’ appearance in Pittsburgh is spon­
sored by the Italian Ministry of Foreign Affairs. 
Admission is complimentary . For further details, 
contact the Pitt Music Department at 624-4126.
Traditional and contemporary folk music with 
Malcolm Dalglish and Grey Larsen. Saturday, 
December 10, 1983 at 8 p.m. Synod Hall, 125 
North Craig Street in Oakland. Tickets are $6 
and are available at East End Food Coop, Semple 
Street Food Coop, Irish Design Center, Pitt Box 
Office and CMU Student Union. For more infor­
mation call 322-6359.
University of Pittsburgh Department of Music
presents a special program, In Memoriam: John 
Fitzgerald Kennedy, to commemorate the life of 
the late president, Tuesday, Nov. 22,8:30 p.m. in 
Heinz Chapel.
The University/Community Orchestra, Univer­
sity Choral Society and guest soloists under the 
direction of Grover Wilkins III will perform Stra­
vinsky’s Elegy for JFK, text by W. H. Auden. Also 
included in the program will be Solemn Vespers 
by Mozart a;nd Poulenc’s Gloria, a work which 
premiered in Boston on Kennedy’s inauguration 
day, Jan. 20, 1961.
Admission is complimentary. For further details, 
please call the Pitt Music Department at 624- 
4126.
Cameron Choir Concert, Max Peterson, director. 
November 30, 8 p.m., Alumni Concert Hall.
The Old Allegheny Festival Choir, under the I 
direction of Paul Weber, will sing music dedj 
cated to St. Nicholas at St. Nicholas Church, 13^ 
East Ohio St., Northside, on Sunday, Dec. 4 at^ 1 
p.m.
In addition to the choral works, the program win I 
feature a short talk on the significant features of] 
architect Frederick Sauer’s St. Nicholas Church 
which was recognized by the Pittsburgh History 
and Landmarks Foundation in 1976 as a history I 
and cultural landmark. The church was thefirj 
Croatian Roman Catholic parish in America 
Admission for the Dec. 4 concert is $5. For inf0r I 
mation call 561 ^5343.
The photographs of David Kelly will be exhi­
bited in the gallery at Pittsburgh Film-Makers I 
205 Oakland Avenue from Nov. 7 through Nov
30. Gallery hours are Monday through Friday I 
a.m. to 8 p.m., Saturday 12 p.m. to 3 p.m.,an(j| 
before film screenings, 7:30 to 8 p.m. For morel 
information call 681-5449.
This program is funded in part by the National! 
Endowment for the Arts, the Pittsburgh Founda l 
tion, and the Howard Heinz Endowment.
Painters Painting, a two-hour film released ini 
1972 featuring interviews with leading Americ 
painters, among them Stella, Motherwell, 
Kooning, and Warhol. Shown Tuesday, Nov. 29| 
at 4 and 7 p.m., Multi-Purpose Room, Hunt 
Library. Sponsored by the Departments of His-| 
tory and Art. Free.
Singer Lena Home will perform at the Stanlei 
Theater from Nov. 29 to Dec. 14 for six show 
only. Tickets on sale at the Stanley Box Offin 
and at Kaufmann’s.
Graduate Recital, Russell Seifter, French hotnj 
November 22, 8 p.m., Alumni Concert Hall.
Junior Recital, Robert Leibholz, violinl 
November 29, 8 p.m., Alumni Concert Hall.
Male Volleyball Players welcome to practia
Thursday nights 7-9 p.m. in the women’s gyn 
Be ready for a hard work out.
Custom Designed Hairstylesthat only look expensivelAttention 
The Tartan will not publish 
next week due to Thanks- 
giving break.
Our last issue of the semes­
ter will be published on 
December 6.
Our professional stylists know that to custom cut your hair the way you want, they 
must listen to what you want That's why at Great Expectations you'll leave 
with the style you had in mind , at a price you can afford 
SATISFACTION GUARANTEED
PRECISION 
HAIRCUT 
(ANY LENGTH) 
$1240
(WASH-CUT-1LOW-STYLE)
NO
APPOINTMENT
PERMS FOR 
ALL STYLES 
$25.00
COLOR
Wed. 1*7
Thais-, Fri. 1*9 
Sm.%4NO APPOINTMENTS 
UNISEX HAIR SALON
NNewsw Jioose
DISTINCTIVE, AUTHENTIC THAI CUISINE
328 ATWOOD ST 
OAKLAND 682-7953 
OPEN FOR LUNCH and DINNER 
CLOSED MONDAYS
CALL 371-2*11CMU TRAVEL OFFICE
CAMPUS CONVENIENCE
SKIBO 40A
