mmiiininrmumnrn
4>%\\S
Published Weekly By 
Students Of The Carnegie Technical Schools.

---------------------------------------------------

2THE TARTAN
OAKLAND ARCABE CO,
LARGEST TILE SWIMMING POOL
IN THE WORLD
Forbes and Atwood Streets
Open—Daily from 8 a. m, to 10 p. m.
Sundays, 8 a. m. to 4 p. m. 
Ladies’ Day, Friday, 9 a. m. 
to 7 p. m.
Take any Fifth Ave. or Forbes St. 
Car and get off at Atwood St.
Dates for parties can be secured by 
addressing
GUY M. DAILEY, Manager. 
Admission—25c. Five Tickets for $1.
Saturday Morning from 8 a. m. until 1 
p. m. all School Boys under 18 years 
of age will be admitted for 15c.
SÄNKE Y BROS,
All Grades of 
RED BRICK
Office—2112 CARSQN STREET 
Both Phones. S. S.. PITTSBURG
¿JustRtefif’Clothes
For Men andBqys
Fancy and Dress Waistcoats 
An exceptionally large collection 
Many exclusive and imported fabrics 
$3.00, $4.00, $5.00, $6.00, $7.50 
upwards to $15.00 each
McCREERY AND COMPANY
m44> INTHHN EN IWONR LDHFoH 
rbeeIsandA
]ames Hay
President
John P. Provan
Manager
THE HAY PLUMBING CO. 
Plumbing & Sanitary Engineers
Bell Phone 1910 Highland P. & A. Phone 971 Hast
5621 Penn Ave., Pittsburg, Pa.
FOR SALE.
SADDLE MARE AT A BARGAIN 
PRICE. PHONE W. E. JUMPER, 
9379 Schenley.
Hotel SchenleyCo,
MANUFACTURERS—IMPORTERS
Estimates 
Given 
for 
School 
and 
Club 
Dinners.
Mil Ultimi U:
514 SM ITH FI ELD STREET 
409 FIFTH AVENUE
Most complete stock of absolutely 
everything used in the laboratory.
717 FORBES STREET
CAPITAL$4,000,000
SOLICITS THE ACCOUNTS 
OF STUDENTS.
SIPE’S JAPAN OIL
Superior to Linseed Oil for all kinds 
of Painting
JAMES B. SIPE & CO. 
Allegheny, Pa.Resources over 41 Millions.

---------------------------------------------------

VOL. TI, No. 5tartan
PITTSBURG, PA., WEDNESDAY, OCT. 1G, 190^PRICE TEN CENTS
CALENDAR.
Thursday, October 17.
AMERICAN CHEMICAL SOCIETY 
MEETING—METALLURGICALS 
AND CHEMICALS INVITED. 
FOOT BALL PRACTICE.
Friday, October 18.
FOOT BALL PRACTICE.
Saturday, October 19.
'ECH VS. WESTMINSTER AT 
WESTMINSTER, PA. 
Monday, October 21. 
FOOT-BALL PRACTICE. 
Tuesday, October 22. 
FOOT-BALL PRACTICE.
0(Xh^oooooooo.-oooc>ooo<:>0:Ock>ch;m>;c<>o-^0-00ooc>ooooooO'00oooo:ch>o
DAY INDUSTRIAL SCHOOL OPENS
NOTE—Notices to appear in the 
Calendar should be handed to the 
editors not later than Monday noon.
The Day Industrial School opened on last Monday morning with an en­
rollment of one hundred and twenty men. The men were instructed to meet 
in the large Assembly Hall, where they were addressed by Dr. Hamerschlag 
and Prof. Connelly, of the Trade Schools. After the addresses regular class 
work began.
We print Dr. Hamerschlag's address herewith:
I have come in this morning to say a word of welcome to the new stu­
dents. The first and most important thing is the fact that this is a new 
school; this is a new departure. You have no upper classmen, therefore you 
are your own masters, and the things you do to-day, to-morrow, or next month 
are likely to influence the classes for many years to come. I am particularly 
anxious that you give close adherence to certain principles. The first and 
most important is the fact that you have got to retain your own self-respect 
and that of your teachers.
In order that you may develop to the greatest degree in your own school 
life I want to suggest that you immediately organize yourselves into a class, 
having class officers. At the close of this talk you will have an opportunity 
to take a few minutes for this. Spend this time here organizing, getting ac­
quainted with each other and appointing temporary officers. Make it your 
business to participate in all school functions; by that I mean school clubs, 
athletic associations, literary societies, etc. Assert your right to be recognized 
and do it through your class officers.
• As individuals, make up your minds that you have a duty to perform. 
We are going to compel you to do good work. If you don’t, when the mid­
winter test comes around some of you are going to be dropped. Whether you 
are here for Building Trades, Machinery Trades or Engineering Course, you 
must attain a fixed average month by month in the shop, class room or 
laboratory.
Remember, we are going to insist upon a high standard. A failure to 
meet that standard will argue with us your unwillingness to work, not that 
you have too little brain power.
Now I want to say something about the necessity for our observing these 
standards. You are supposed to be the product of the money, the time and 
the soul interest each of these men are going to give to you. If you don't 
make good, they have not made good in the eyes of the world, no matter how 
hard they work.
(Continued on page 10.)

---------------------------------------------------

THE TARTAN
The Second Parade.
Early Saturday evening some of 
the officers of the Pioneer Tech and 
Woodlawn Cottage Clubs decided that 
a parade would be a fitting way of 
celebrating the success of the team, 
and a call was posted in both houses 
for a parade at 12 o’clock sharp.
At the appointed time the bunch 
arrayed themselves in some fearful 
and wonderful pajamas and night 
clothes, and were about to start when 
it was found that Tingley and Reilly 
had barricaded their room and were 
theoretically asleep. After some de­
lay, Benny Watrous jimmied their 
window with a cold chisel and woke 
them. They were soon induced to 
come with the crowd and the party 
started down Woodlawn avenue, in 
the lock-step, with Tingley marching 
ahead giving an incorrect imitation 
of Napoleon Crossing the Delaware. 
The procession moved down Wood­
lawn to Forbes along Forbes, to Bee­
ler, and out Beeler street to Wilkins 
avenue. Here ranks were broken 
and the angry mob double-quicked up 
the hill to the Techmont Club house. 
Techmont was awake and humming. 
Four rooms were found to be stocked 
and Mr. Howard was enjoying a bath. 
Men of genius are often absent-mind­
ed and no one was impolite enough to 
call Mr. Howard’s attention to the 
fact that he had forgotten to disrobe 
before entering the tub.
The visitors entered into the merri­
ment and an enjoyable time was had 
by all but one or two. After an 
hour’s fun refreshments were, served 
and enjoyed by all. (Refreshments 
is a good sounding name for tailor- 
made cigarettes and apples.)
The order of march was the same 
on the return trip as before. Buck 
Thomson was allowed to make a 
speech at the corner of Beeler and 
Forbes \ streets. Mr. Thomson’s ad­
dress is too long to give in full, but 
we give a few excerpts from it as fol­
lows:
“I did not expect to be called on 
to speak this morning, but it gives 
me great pleasure to stand before 
such an intelligent audience. The en­
tire team did fine work and I am 
proud to be connected with it. I am 
satisfied with the result.
I hope you have enjoyed your in­
nocent frolic and trust you will now 
go home quietly, as breakfast will 
soon be on the table.”
At the conclusion of Mr. Thomson’s 
masterly address, the party disband­
ed and thoughtfully brought in the 
morning’s milk from the club house 
porches.
AMERICAN CHEMICAL SOCIETY.
The forty-fifth regular meeting of 
the Pittsburg section will be held 
with the Chemical section of the En­
gineers’ Society of Western Pennsyl­
vania in the Fulton building, Thurs­
day, October 17, 1907, at o’clock P. M.
Program:
New methods of galvanizing, with 
an introduction on zinc and its uses.
Mr. Alfred Lang.
Tough on the Plebes.
Last Wednesday a picked crowd of 
Juniors amused themselves during the 
luii after the noon-day meal by riding 
Plebes on a rail directly in front of 
the commons. The second year men 
would lean against the building in 
the most unconcerned attitudes and 
the unsuspecting Plebes walked 
straight into their midst only to be 
seized and carried around the tennis 
court on the rail. When business would 
become a bit dull through the absence 
of the lower classmen, anybody who 
passed \yas in danger. Several of the 
instructors were threatened.
The members of the Glee Club will 
be glad to know that one of our 
teaching staff is a singer of no mean 
ability. Modesty has undoubtedly 
prevented him from proclaiming his 
rare gift and giving the musical or­
ganization of the school the benefit 
of it. A representative of the Tartan 
learned entirely by accident during 
the past week that Prof. Crabtree, of 
the Department of Metallurgy, used 
to sing at Second Presbyterian church 
at McKeesport. He further learned 
that the congregation fell off in num­
bers very appreciably after the Pro­
fessor left. We trust he will help 
out in the Glee Club this year.
The election of officers of the Glee 
Club has been postponed and will be 
held some time during the coming 
week. Watch for announcement on 
bulletin.
THE STATUS OF THE DRAFTS­
MAN.
From several points of view, the 
draftsman occupies a more peculiar 
position in the modern shop than 
many of the other workers who make 
up the organization. The draftsman 
is considered by many a manager as 
a kind of necessary evil, a dead ex­
pense, which he cannot avoid. For 
behold! the drafting-room is a non­
productive department. At the same 
time the drafting-room of any well- 
organized shop is recognized as the 
heart of the industrial end of the 
business, in which the planning and 
systematizing forces, at least to a 
large degree, are located. The drafts­
man himself occupies a very different 
ground in different shops, according 
to whether the former or the latter 
view expressed is the prevailing one 
in a particular organization. Of 
course, there are draftsmen and 
draftsmen. There are those that are 
valued at $10 a week or less, and 
those that are valued at $40; and 
this fact, too, tends to place the 
knight of the T-square in a peculiar 
position. There are no very well de­
fined limits to his trade. He is more 
or less what one might call a free 
lance. In many a case he is not even 
a distinct part of the regular organi­
zation. He is called in when a new 
design is to be turned out in the 
drafting-room, and when that is done 
he is “laid off." At least, this is the 
case in the majority of smaller shops, 
specializing on one or a few kinds of 
standard machines. The last con­
tention may, perhaps, not apply to the 
leading designer, but it most certainly 
applies to the ordinary draftsman.
The conditions outlined are by no 
means very satisfactory, but it is dif­
ficult to propose a remedy. It has 
been suggested that men in the shop, 
having training in drafting, be tem­
porarily taken into the drafting-room 
to help out when business there is 
pressing, rather than to hire drafts­
men for short terms. But this course 
would be subject to many objections. 
In the first place, nobody does the 
draftsman’s work as well as a trained 
draftsman, constantly working at his 
trade. In the second place, it is not 
at all sure that the very men with 
drafting experience, wanted from the 
shop, can be spared there at a par- 
ticular time, and last, but not least,

---------------------------------------------------

THE TARTAN5
the man, who at first would be only 
tempoi'&rily taken from the shop for 
drafting-room work, would soon find 
a certain attraction in his new occu­
pation, and, in nine cases out of ten, 
he would not return to the shop again, 
but continue on what, at first sight, 
seems to him the rosy road of the 
draftsman. To the ordinary shop 
worker, the drafting-room has at first 
many attractions. The work is 
cleaner, the duties, at first, less ex- i 
acting, the surroundings more pleas- j 
ing, and the hours generally shorter. 
In the long run, however, it is evident 
that the draftsman, having passed 
through the stages of assistant to 
that of independent designer, finds 
the limitations greater in this depart- I 
ment than in the productive depart­
ments in the shop. That is why we 
find so few old draftsmen. We do not 
realize where they go to; all we know 
is that they disappear from the draft- 
ing-board as they grow older.
The cause for this is perhaps the 
kernel of the matter of the compara­
tively unsatisfactory status of the 
draftsman. After long years of close 
attention to business, he has become 
an expert designer, and his work re­
quires all the mental qualities present 
only after years of training and ex­
perience. His general intelligence, 
measured in units of logic, is greater 
than that of most of his co-operators 
in the industrial organization. He is 
the ingenious planner and schemer of 
prom-making devices, and even 
though, in certain cases, some ideas 
are furnished him by “the man 
higher up,” these ideas, as a rule, are 
furnished in such a crude form that 
the draftsman is but little helped in 
his work. When the device is com­
pleted, however, the honor of the suc­
cessful working does, curiously 
enough, not fall upon the one to 
whom the most of the credit is due. 
When we also consider that the com­
pensation paid to the most skillful 
of machine designers is often, not to 
say nearly always, less than that of 
department foremen, many of whom 
in intelligence and general ability are 
far inferior to a trained designer, then 
it is easily seen why we find the 
draftsmen leaving the chosen trade, 
as soon as they have reached middle 
age, to seek more congenial occupa­
tions. This, however, is a distinct 
loss to the industries as such. The
!
best and ablest men, the most ex­
perienced designers, are lost to the 
craft at the very time when their j 
services would become most valuable. 
If the draftsman were considered a 
more integral part of a shop organ­
ization, if his merits were recognized, 
rather than usurped, by his superiors, 
and if his compensation stood in a 
more equitable proportion to his 
achievements, he would be less 
tempted to leave that place in the in­
dustrial organization where he serves 
the best, for other occupations, far 
better compensated, but requiring no 
more intelligence, judgment or ability. 
—From Machinery.
Navigable Dimensions of the Suez 
Canal.
The navigable dimensions of the 
Suez Canal have been practically 
doubled during the last twenty years. 
Taking the canal as a whole, its width 
at the water level in the northern 
half is from 300 to 360 feet, and in the 
southern half from 240 to 300 feet. 
In 1902 the maximum draft was raised 
from 25 feet 7 inches to 26 feet 3 
inches, and in 1906, to 27 feet. The 
mean duration of transit is about 18 
hours for all vessels, but the general 
effective rate for mail steamers is 15 
hours. The length of the canal is 100 
miles, and the ordinary rate of speed 
thus is 6 2-3 miles an hour.
For Increasing the Thermo-Dynamic 
Efficiency of the Steam Engine.
A correspondent to the “Times En- j 
gineering Supplement” describes the 
results of the trials of the Field-Mor-, 
ris system for increasing the thermo­
dynamic efficiency of the steam en­
gine. He states that by this system i 
a saving of 24 per cent, in fuel has j 
been effected. The system consists j 
of adding to the steam a certain pro­
portion of air under pressure, this 
mixture then being superheated be-1 
fore being allowed to pass into the 
steam cylinders. The theory, upon ; 
which the saving claimed for this in- j 
vention is based, is not manifest, but 
it is stated on good authority that the : 
saving in several tests has been con­
siderable, after due allowance has 
been made for power expended in 
compressing the air.
B. & B.
gentlemen’s clothing
Practically unlimited assortment finest 
fabrics ever put into Suits or Overcoats.
Usually high grade clothing, but priced no more than the ordinary kind—self 
evident why our Men’s Clothing section is such a thriving, rapidly growing de­partment.
Men’s Suits $12.50 to $50.00.
Suits $20.00 to $25.00—without par­allel, fancy mixtures, many of them im­ported cloths.
Gentlemen’s Overcoats$15 00to$45.00 
—Overcoats, $20.00 and $25.00 decid­edly unusual at the prices.
Fancy mixed Black or Grey unfinished Worsteds—$15.00 to $30.00.
Men’s Rain Coats—Black Thibet or Grey Worsted—$15.00.
Tailored Rain Coats, $15.00 to $30.00.
m4>>I N mTHE
Tech School 
STUDENTS
Will receive special attention, 
if they will come to us for 
their musical goods.
Mandolins, guitars, banjos, 
violins, and other instruments 
sold at rock-bottom prices to 
Tech students, and if desired, 
easy terms (monthly pay­
ments) may be arranged. This 
applies to pianos also.
THE S. HAMILTON COMPANY.
Hamilton Hall, 531-533 Wood St. 
PITTSBURG, PA.
We sell the WORLD'S BEST PIANOS.
W. S. BROWN
Guns, Ammunition, Fising Tackle 
and all Athletic and 
Sporting Goods.
523 Wood St. Pittsburg, Pa.

---------------------------------------------------

6THE TARTAN
0<m:,Cm;mX<^xK»OOOOOOOOOChX<h>
M. M. C. S.
THEAHRANSAHHEAAuAnAdASAd
Twenty-five girls have entered a 
course on home economics at State 
College.
? ? ?
Wellesley this year enrolled four 
Chinese girls, the first to be sent to 
this country by the Chinese govern­
ment.
# * #
There are more southern women at­
tending the University of Chicago 
than any other northern college.* * *
It is expected that work will soon 
be begun on the Carnegie library at 
Wellesley. The fund for this building 
was completed at commencement by 
the gift of John A. Beebe and his 
daughter Alice G. Beebe, ’96. A new 
dormitory will be called Beebe Hall in 
their honor.
* * $
President Seelye, of .Smith, celebrat­
ed his seventieth birthday on Septem­
ber 20th. He was serenaded by the 
students.
* * *
Oberlin has more women from for­
eign countries than any other college 
in the United States.
$ $ $
Vassar is the most popular eastern 
college among western women.
What Do You Think of This, Costume 
Designers?
A lady on a paper fan!
She surely came from old Japan;
Her eyes are very bright and brown, 
She wears a gaily flower'd gown.
The bodkins in her hair are made 
Of gold, of ivory and jade.
I gaze on her with much delight,
But she stares back with all her 
might,
And says: “Your form, your eyes,
your hair,
All lack that Oriental air
Which makes it possible, you see, 
To wear a robe with grace, like me. 
There’s not an artist in Japan 
Would paint you on a paper fan!
Mr. Lewis Pratt, of Tacoma, de­
livered a most interesting and instruc­
tive lecture on the growth and de­
velopment of the “Great Northwest,” 
last Monday morning, in the M. M. C. 
S. He had a great many beautiful 
pictures, which were thrown upon the 
screen, illustrating principally Taco­
ma, with its magnificent mountain 
in the background. Mr. Pratt de­
scribes the sunset on the summit of 
Mount Tacoma as being “the good­
night kiss to America.” Some of the 
girls were inclined to doubt a little, 
when Mr. Pratt said that their straw- 
berries were so big that you had to 
“carve” them into sevei’al pieces be­
fore you could eat them. He has our 
sincerest thanks for a very delightful 
lecture, and we hope that he shall 
come again soon.
Girls, what is the matter with the 
nightingales? We have not heard 
anything that sounds like even a 
sparrow, not to mention the other. 
If we are not very careful, the first 
year girls may come out first.
The Juniors beg to announce that 
there was no class rush. Such things 
are undignified. Some foolish-minded 
persons hung out a piece of yellow 
cheese-cloth, on which were large, 
black numerals—and great was the 
indignation therefrom. Our class 
colors are turkey red, with gold nu­
merals.
The Plebes left a memorial in the 
Institute Thursday morning in the 
shape of a new door.
The Scrap-Pile.
Criticism results from failure and 
causes success.
“Bite me off a little bite o’ yer ap­
ple, Swipesy.”
“Bite it off yer own self; my mout’ 
is tree times as big as your’n.”
“There’s fame and fortune waiting 
for some woman.”
“What one?”
’ The one who succeeds in making 
happy marriages a fad.”
HAND
TURNED
COLLARS
STEVENSON & FORBES STREETS
Bell Phone 2943 Grant
P. & A. Phone 148 Main
Everthing for the Plumber
Bailey-Farrell Mfg. Co.
Third Ave. & Ross St. Pittsburg, Pa.
Largest exclusive Plumbing Supply 
House in Western Pennsylvania.
P. & A. Phone, Main 773.
Bell Phone, Grant 773.
EDWIN M. HILL
LUMBER 
Mill Work 
2601 Penn Ave. Pittsburg, Pa.
B. K. ELLIOTT
COMPANY 
DRAWING 
MATERIALS
108 SIXTH STREET

---------------------------------------------------

THE TARTAN "7
Recipes.
Irish Stew.
Faith, an’ if ye’ll take a plinty av 
wurruk; an’ a bunk an’ elbow grace; 
an' a bit av a joke; or a little piggin’ 
an’ a knock at the homes av an 
avenin’ fer flavor, ye’ll hev a combi­
nation that’ll shtand by ye ivery day 
in the wake.
“May the saints kape us shtiddy, 
wid a civil tongue in our heads, an’ 
a riddy answer on the’ tip av that 
same, fer cheerin’ av th’ way.”
(Selected by the Household Arts 
Department.)
The University of New Mexico, at 
Albuquerque, has set a new style in 
American architecture. The buildings 
of this southwestern institution are to 
be erected after the manner of the 
Indian pueblos. Several of the largest 
structures are already completed. 
When the work is finished the uni­
versity edifices will surround an open 
quadrangle. Each building will ue 
complete in itself, but the effect will 
be that of the home of an Indian com­
munity.
As described by E. Dana Johnson, 
in “The World's Work,” this plan of 
architecture seems admirably situated 
to the requirements of university 
buildings. They are spacious, and the 
dormitories are undeniably homelike. 
The students have entered into the 
spirit of the thing, and their rooms are 
decorated in Indian fashion—real In­
dian fashion, not like the affectation 
of some “den” owners, who display 
“Navajo blankets” and pipes and 
tomahawks. There must be a genuine 
and refreshing air of Americanism 
about the place.
* * *
Considerable interest is shown over 
a bequest of $400,000 to Yale Uni­
versity, made by Mr. Archibald H. 
Blount, of London. Mr. Blount is de­
scribed as very eccentric, never hav­
ing spent a penny outside of necessi­
ties and having a particular objection 
to Americans. There is no knowledge 
of his ever having had any connec­
tion whatever with the university.
1909 Holds Class Meeting.
A meeting of the Junior Class was 
held in the assembly room last Wed­
nesday afternoon. After the athletic 
situation had been discussed by sev­
eral speakers, Turner was elected to 
I represent the class on the committee 
of students to confer with the faculty 
in regard to a change in the constitu­
tion of the athletic association. The 
Wup game was then taken up and 
the advisability of having a parade 
before going to Exposition Park was 
discussed. It wTas finally decided to 
allow the matter to drop until it 
could be brought before the entire 
student body. The President was in­
structed to see the Presidents of the 
other classes and endeavor to get 
them to join in a call for a mass meet­
ing, when the question of parade, of 
cheer leaders, and other matters 
could be attended to. Mr. Watrous 
announced that the committee ap­
pointed last year to secure class-pins 
was ready to place their order, and 
requested all students wishing to se­
cure 1909 pins to give their names to 
him without delay.
The meeting adjourned at this 
time.
IT IS A CINCH.
That a student is taking Metallurgy
if you see a stack of American Insti­
tute of Mining Engineers in front of 
him.
That a student is taking Mechanical 
Engineering if you see him guying 
“George Fisher.”
That a student is taking Civil En­
gineering if he suddenly leaves a class.
That a student is taking Electrical 
Engineering if he is constantly buying 
books.
That a student is taking Architec­
ture if he is loafing.
Prof. Esquerre—“Five ounces of 
meat per day will furnish as many 
calories as the average person needs.” 
Gaston—“Well, I haven't had any 
breakfast and I am about 1100 calories 
shy.”
If a game of baseball should be 
played in Japan, would a spectator j 
there be a Japanese fan? I’ve no 
doubt the effect on the eyes would
PHOTOGRAPHS
THE OAKLAND STUDIO
Forbes Building Forbes and Atwood Sts.
Phone Schenley 1644
Special Rates to Students, Etc. 
GEO. H. RICHARDS, Photographer
Late of the East End and Sewickley
rRWtWWwSp—EFFWFi
Stationers
Magazines Post Cards
LOWNEY’S BOX CANDIES
3702 Forbes Street 
Cigars Tobacco
WALLACE OPTICAL CO.
Suite 503-505 
Diamond Bank Building 
PITTSBURG, PA.
• Eyes tested free. Prescriptions 
promptly filled. All work 
guaranteed.
L i S. WILSOI COMPANY
Contractors and 
. . Builders . .
Office Buildings 
Fine Residences 
Power Plants 
Bank and 
Office Fixtures
be a pleasant if only each foul were a 
Japanese pheasant.—Cornell Widow.
* *
There is nothing that disgusts a girl 
more than to have a young man make 
a biuff at kissing her.—Ex.
* * *
An illustration of a D.AerenLal, 
Hamilton's mustache.

---------------------------------------------------

THE TARTAN
THE TARTAN
Published Weekly by Students of the 
Carnegie Technical Schools.
F. E. Foster, ’08.............Editor-in-Chief
R. K. Merrill, ’08... .Associate Editor
J. H. Taxis, ’10..........Associate Editor
Bert Turner, '09........Associate Editor
J. M. Sampson, ’08. .Business Manager
C. L. Carver, App. Science (Night),
Asst. Bus. Mgr. 
L. G. Huntley.............Circulation M’g’r
Correspondents.
Jean Herron..............M. M. C. S. (Day)
Edith Clark...........M. M. C. S. (Night)
J. S. Charles.. .Applied Science (Day) 
A. F. Stamm. .Applied Science (Night)
D. J. Spence, ’08............Applied Design
J. C. French................Industrials
Subscription Rates.
Yearly................................................$2.00
Single Copy - 10 Cents
For Advertising Rates address the
Business Manager, Care Carnegie
Technical Schools.
NEW INSTRUCTOR.
Mr. Jeffrey has been appointed as­
sistant instructor in the Department 
of Physics. He was formerly at Case 
School of Applied Science in Cleve­
land.
APPLIED SCIENCE (NIGHT) OPENS
The night school of Applied Science 
began last Monday with an enrollment 
of about 800 men. In the class of 
1912 there are about 150 students, 
while the older classes of 1910 and
1911 have lost but a small percentage 
of their men.
Director Hamerschlag addressed 
the third year men and expressed his 
pleasure at seeing so large a number 
of men back. He impressed upon 
them that their sacrifices in coming to 
school at night could not be in vain.
PLEBE FOOT-BALL TEAM.
The Plebes have already begun 
practice toward developing a foot­
ball team, and will schedule a number 
of games with High School and Acad­
emies in the district. Much good 
material has presented itself, but it 
is the feeling of those in charge of
the team that there are many men in 
the Plebe class who could be devel­
oped into good strong players if they 
would come out and practice. Capt. 
Boots wishes every man who cares to 
try for the team to report for practice 
daily at 1.30 o’clock P. M. Mr. Aude 
has volunteered to coach.
ABOUT TECH.
N. D. Vassilaros, ’08, and A. A. Ro- 
senfeld, ’09, have returned to Pitts­
burg after an extended stay in Eng­
land and on the continent. They 
were unable to secure passage late 
in August and were forced to remain 
abi’oad until September 28, before a 
passage could be booked, owing to the 
great exit of Americans from Europe 
at the end of the summer season. 
The fellows availed themselves of 
the extension of time and journeyed 
back to the continent, where they 
visited Berlin, a place they had left 
out of their original itinerary. Both 
are in the best of health and spirit, 
and are looking forward to a similar 
trip in the future.
A. A. Rosenfeld, ex-’09, will accept 
a position on the new buildings and 
enter the third year night school.
N. D. Vassilaros will begin work 
with the Senior Electricals.
Secretary Field won the faculty 
pool made up on the Wup game. Mr. 
Field guessed that the score would 
be 17—0.
Patterson, ’09, is living at the 
Woodlawn Cottage.
Instructor Howard is living at the 
Techmont.
Rumor has it that a Transport II will 
be launched in the near future in the 
shape of the Packard, 1907 model. First 
mate Sampson has resigned his posi­
tion under Capt. Phillips and Quarter­
master Todd will be advanced to the 
first officer’s post. We hope that 
the No. 2 will be a better seaboat 
than the No. 1.
Mr. Pfouts, instructor in pattern- 
making has patented a scheme to be 
used in connection with the" check
system. This consists of a se­
ries of boards that slide in grooves. 
On each board there is ample space 
lor one hundred checks. The con­
trivance takes about one-third the 
space required by the revolving type, 
and bids fair to become very popular.
ECHOES FROM THE GAME.
Nearly every member of the fac­
ulty and employe of the school at­
tended Saturday’s game. Engineer 
MacKenzie, Mr. Sharp and Mr. Gra­
ham were interested spectators.
Mr. Esquerre was among the most 
enthusiastic of the spectators. He is 
entitled to the thanks of the entire 
student body and team for his kind­
ness in rendering service to the in­
jured men of the team.
Saturday’s game was the first game 
of foot-ball ever seen by Prof. Follows 
and /Messrs. Denton and Esquerre. 
Mr. Denton claims the English game 
is far more interesting both for spec­
tators and players. All Mr. Esquerre 
will say is: “It is a fine game. I
would like to play myself.”
The odds will not run high next 
year!
Nothing but praise for the team.
Did you read what the Leader had 
to say on Sunday? Brains against 
Brawn.
Williams, ’11, deserves the thanks 
oi every Tech man for the service he 
rendered in Saturday’s game. He 
made sacrifices of time every day for 
a week in order to practice.
Ellis and Sweet helped the team 
out wonderfully with their week’s 
coaching.
NOTICE.
A number of scales, a few microm­
eters and several books have been 
inadvertently taken from the Physi­
cal Laboratory. If any student has 
any of these things in his possession 
will he kindly return them?
W. E. Gibbs.

---------------------------------------------------

THE TARTAN9
<x«x^*ooC'Chx<mx*c^oc<<m>:,o:c^ooocm>xhxhXmxkm>xh:'00oooc^oc^
I PERTINENT AND IMPERTINENT |
Did you see the gay headpice that 
“Sike” Stanford was under on Sat­
urday ?
The number of night students in 
line was a prominent and pleasing 
feature of the parade.
• During the absence of Mr. Mam- 
atey, Mr. Hamilton will be assisted 
by Mr. Gramon.* * *
The “Dutchman” was there too.
How much did you win?
* * *
There is some talk of an excursion 
to W. & J. when the team goes down 
there. If enough men are willing to 
go in a body a cheap rate can be se­
cured.
? $ V
Charles, Hamnett, and a few others 
were very, very busy in the grand­
stand.? ? ?
Not a little praise is due to Mr. 
Esquerre for his work in taking care 
of the physical condition of the play­
ers both before and after the game.? ? ?
Who says that the night men are 
not represented on Tech’s teams?? ? *
Those having fair friends should 
not venture near the Mechanical Hall 
during business hours when accom­
panied by said friends, as it is too 
demoralizing to all parties concerned.# *
The chemists and metallurgists of 
the Senior Class have substituted ana­
lytical chemistry for the one hour of 
physical chemistry. Next term they 
will take three hours of Physical 
Chemistry.
* * *
Many men of the Senior class sig­
nified their intention of returning to 
take a post-graduate course next 
year.
* * *
“Has any one ever been able to 
find out the difference between a test 
and an exam?”
* * *
Doc. Connell, ex-’08, is working
for the Government at Beaver, Pa. 
He may enter school at Christmas.if ^ ^
Mr. Sharp snatched up all the Wup 
money he could get at the prevailing 
odds. He plucked several plums.
? ? *
We wish to announce to all visitors 
to the Pioneer Tech Club that Mr. 
George Washington Kette,r is the 
duly elected constable.
* * *
Schumaker, ’08, will begin his reg­
ular series of trips to Columbus next 
week. He has several boilers to in­
stall between now and June.
? ? *
Committee on Revision of Athletic 
Constitution —• Chairman, Colmery, 
’08; Turner, ’09; Bright, ’10.
* ? *
Manager Buck Thomson announces 
that the Tech share of the proceeds 
of Saturday’s game was nearly $300.? ? *
The forward pass made by the 
Wup team on Saturday that caused 
so much discussion has been decided 
illegal, although the decision was 
given to Wup.* >:= ?
Ralph Wagner, ’10, has taken up 
quarters at the Woodlawn Cottage 
Club.
* * *
Reilly, ’09, is living at the Pioneer 
Tech Club.? ? *
Patterson, ’09, has joined the Wood­
lawn Cottage Club.* * *
S. L. Potts was called to his home 
in Canada last week by the serious 
illness of his mother. It is hoped 
that she will soon recover and that 
Sammy can return shortly.
* ? ?
It seems that tiddle-de-winks and 
hop-scotch are not so bad for physical 
development. Chronicle - Telegraph, 
please copy.
* * *
Foamy Best used that deep bass 
voice he trained for an entirely dif­
ferent purpose to good advantage in 
rooting.
J. Le Roy Decker, the star guard 
on last year's team, came down; to 
see the game, being thè guest of the 
Woodlawn Cottage Club. Deck is 
working at Niles, Ohio, and playing 
on an independent team with Gannels, 
of Michigan, and other fast men.
* * *
We understand that there is a cen­
sor committee, consisting of several 
members of the faculty. Undignified 
members, take warning.
“Sparrow” Beeken and “MosquitV’ 
Hittner played finely
Dr. Hamerschlag is very enthusi­
astic over the showing the team 
made on Saturday.
The Senior students in Metallurgy 
made a trip to the steel works at Mc­
Keesport, where some investigations 
were made of the effects of the dif­
ferent sized nozzles of the converter, 
on the temperature of steel in pour­
ing. Some very good results were 
secured with the Fery radiation py- 
nometer.
Decker, ex-o9, was around school on 
Friday. “Deck” has been in Colora ’o 
for his health.
Manager Thomson is making every 
endeavor to secure a home game for 
November 2.
Correspondence with Stevens Insti­
tute of Technology and N. Y. Univer­
sity is going on for a November 2 
game.
Rev. Father James F. Winters has 
been appointed Catholic chaplain to 
the students in Cornell University. 
This practically assures the establish­
ment of the proposed Catholic chapel 
and lecture hall to be situated on the 
campus. The chapel and lecture hall 
will be open to all students, and lec­
tures on history, philosophy and 
psychology will be given from the 
Catholic viewpoint in accordance with 
the recent orders of the pope. How­
ever no credit will be given in the uni­
versity for the work done.
* * $
A course in railroad administration 
and management has been opened at 
Illinois,

---------------------------------------------------

10THE TARTAN
-323 Fraternity Pins, Class Pins, Badges, Prize Cups, Fine Tools
HEEREN BROS. & CO. MWAH JEWELERS and SILVERSMITHS,
----------HEEREN BUILDING, PENN AVE. & 8TH ST.-----------
We are the Makers of the Carnegie Tech. School Pins
DAY INDUSTRIAL SCHOOL OPENS.
(Continued from page 3.)
There is one other thing which I 
think is important for you to adhere 
to, and that is your school color, and 
you should know why you have been 
given the green. You know in the 
Tartan (which is our school flag), 
there are the four colors: Blue, red, 
yellow, green; the green has been 
assigned to the School of Apprentices 
and Journeymen, and will therefore 
be your School Color. All the colors 
that confront your eyesight, when 
blended together, will produce white 
light. The four colors—red, yellow, 
green and blue, when properly com­
bined, will produce the Carnegie Tar­
tan. You can take these same colors 
¡and improperly combine them and 
you won’t get anything like a Scotch 
plaid; therefore the arrangement and 
interlocking of these four different 
colors is one of the essential things 
in the selection of that plaid. JuM as 
the School of Apprentices and Jour­
neymen is one of the fundamental de­
partments of the Carnegie Technical 
Schools. That plaid is significant of 
the Schools just exactly as the Stars 
and Stripes are significant of the 
American People.
It has been well said “That in the 
development of the human being stu­
dents with different ideals and with 
different purpose must of necessity 
form a part of the student body.” 
Many of you say “I want to be a civil 
engineer.” Ninety per cent, of you 
may not know what a civil engineer 
is; you may think a civil engineer is 
the man that runs the transit and 
level, and that electrical engineering 
means to string wires and put up 
electric lights and to test circuits in 
the laboratory. This is of course far 
from the truth. An engineer is a 
man with a brain capable of doing 
creative work. Surveying and weir­
ing are only mere incidents in an 
engineer’s life. Some may think to 
be an architect is to put up buildings. 
Architects rarely put up buildings, 
they make the drawings and create 
the design, and the building superin­
tendent and mechanics put up the 
building. Therefore, it is our aim to 
teach every student to reason intelli­
gently. We want to teach him the 
the difference between the Plumber 
and the Sanitary Engineer. A first- 
class plumber touches elbows with 
a sanitary engineer, but a poor plumb­
er is quite different. A poor one is 
not worth his weight in lead; a good 
one is worth his weight in gold.
The most important thing for you 
to do next spring is to make up your 
mind what you are going to become 
after you have had a chance to work 
in the shops. We want you to be am­
bitious, wre want you to rise, but we 
don’t want you to be a failure both 
as an engineer and a first-class work­
man. I would very much rather 
climb upstairs and not fall on the 
way up than aspire to reach the moon 
and the stars in a balloon. We can 
live a busy life, a dignified life, with­
out the necessity of trying to reach 
the stars if we are not fitted with the 
proper kind of wings to get there.
Your course of instruction has been 
so arranged that for the i.rst three 
months your curriculum will be iden­
tical with the two groups of trades: 
The Building Trades and the Machin- 
ery Trades. You wrill get the neces­
sary instruction as to what these 
different trades mean so that you may 
go into one of these trades with a 
view of ultimately becoming well 
trained and skillful or else of pre­
paring yourself for higher intellectual 
work.
I am delighted to have students 
who thought they wanted to be en­
gineers and who failed because they 
did not have the creative mind to 
come to me and state that they know 
they w7ill make a success as a fore­
man, that they would rather be a 
master mechanic or superintendent in 
a shop than be a mere detail drafts­
man or a tracer in some engineering 
company. It is an easy thing to rise 
from the position of a mechanic but 
a mighty hard thing to come down. 
The man who has once climbed the 
heights and dreamed of higher things,
of attaining higher standards, does 
not like to turn again to do the sub­
stantial, ordinary, everyday things.
We are operating an engineering 
school here of good rank, and I am 
not saying these things in order to 
hurt the engineering school nor to 
unduly lift the trade school. For 
many students trades are better than 
the professions., for other students 
professions are undoubtedly better 
than the trades; and for some stu­
dents neither one nor the other is the 
right thing, because they are emo­
tional and full of sentiment; there­
fore, to appeal to them architecture, 
sculpture, fine art or music finds a 
happier home in their hearts.
Retain your democracy; make it 
necessary for every fellow in your 
class to recognize every other stu­
dent in the school. If you Will do 
that you will have no difficulty in 
handling discipline.
I have not mentioned that word 
before. We don’t discipline students 
here. If we find a student giving 
trouble we sometimes ask the class 
president to investigate the question, 
and if he reports that that student is 
conducting himself in such a manner 
as to be detrimental to the school, 
he is dropped. We have no system 
of demerits. We don’t mark you 
down or up on the strength of whether 
you shuffle your feet or cross your 
hands or put your hands in your 
pockets; or whether you have your 
hair combed or not combed; we ex­
pect you to conduct yourselves like 
young men who have been given a 
serious problem to work out.
That serious problem is something 
we have an interest in since it in­
volves your development as a man. 
Whether you are going to be me­
chanics or architects, or whether you 
are some day going to be president, 
if before that time comes we can im­
press upon you the necessity of right 
living, of being healthy minded, 
strong men, the kind of sons and the 
kind of brothers that your parents 
want you to be, if we can do that 
the rest will take care of itself.

---------------------------------------------------

THE TARTAN H
GET THE BEST
results obtainable from the combination of Capital and Experience by taking whatever banking bus' ness you may have to the
OAKLAND SAVINGS AND TRUST CO.
$200,000.00 CAPITAL $150,0C0.00 SURPLUS AND UNDIVIDED PROFITS
Hittner gained nine yards. " Roura 
booted to Swenson, who was downed
WUP 6—TECH 0 j*jj where he stood. Schmidt kicked out
of bounds, Tech getting the oval 041 
the 40-yard line.
Hoblitzel began the second half by 
On Saturday, October 5, the Tech Marshall choosing to defend the north kicking over the line. Five yards 
’Varsity met with defeat at Exposition goal. penalty resulted. Hob again booted,
Park in the second annual game with Brown kicked off for Tech to Camp- Roura returning 10 yards. Urling
the Western University of Pennsyl- ben, who returned 25 yards. Tech se- made eight yards through the line, 
vania. In spite of the score all who cured the ball on a fumble. Dowling Dowling negotiated three yards. Roura 
saw the game in an unprejudiced was good for a yard. Roura attempt- punted to Mehl. The latter fumbled, 
light agree that it was a victory for ed a goal from placement from the Hittner getting the ball on his own 
the wearers of the Tartan. The men 25-yard line. He failed by a short 50-yard line. Dowling skirted right 
showed remarkable pluck and played distance. Brown also failed at the en(l f°r yards. Urling went on
a fine game throughout. The stub- same performance, Hoblitzell block- left end for two yards. An onside 
born defense that was offered at all ing the kick in the center of the field, hick wTent to Mehl on Wup s 43-yard 
times by the lighter Tech men to the Schmidt encircled right end for 12 ,ine- Springer gained eight yards in 
onslaughts of the beefy Wupites, and yards. Wup was penalized 15 yards two trials. Jud Schmidt made 15 
the agility of the plaid backfield in for holding. Urling got the ball on yards. Springer again carried the 
gaining ground through the gold and an onside kick on Tech’s 35-yard line. ball> this time for only three yards, 
blue line, was the subject of frequent Big Ban caught the ball on a forward Hol) kicked to Hittner, who carried 
comment. Coach Thompson has been pass by Dowling. Marshall went for the ball back five yards. Roura hit 
developing some good trick plays and six yards. Schmidt made 11 yards in the line for three yards. After re­
lots of spirit; both were in evidence two trials. Springer made four l)eated fumbles on a forward pass, 
during the game, and the help given yards. Van Doren fumbled on the 20- Hittner got the ball on Tech s 35-yard 
by Coaches Aude, Ellis and Sweet to yard line, Roura getting the ball on l*ne- Dowling made eight yards, 
the line men was of inestimable value, the five-yard line. Roura booted to Swenson. Schmidt
The weather conditions were perfect, Brown kicked to Banbury, who re- ma(*e eight yards at left end.
the field in fine shape, a mighty dele- turned 28 yards. Wup was penalized Dining the remainder of the hall 
gation of Tech supporters, a good five yards and Tech given the ball on ^he ball changed hands frequently and 
cheering section—in fact all the ideal the 11-yard line. Brown punted Penalties were handed out freely. The 
foot-ball conditions were fulfilled. again to Big Banbury. Schmidt made ^na^ whistle was tooted with the ball
15 yards on two attempts. Springer center of the field in Tech s
The Game in etail. failed on Tech’s left end. Campbell possession.
Promptly at 2.45 o’clock P. M. Capt. fumbled a forward pass. Tech recov- Hittner and Dowling were the stars 
“Scotty’1 Henderson came on the field ered on the five-yard line. Brown ^or Tech, and Williams and Capt. 
at the head of the Tech squad. A kicked, Wup getting the ball on the Henderson were not far behind, 
tremendous cheer went up from the 20-yard line. Schmidt carried the ball Schmidt played the best game for 
Carnegie stand that lasted for some over the line on a line-plunge and a Wup. 
minutes. Tech started to run through delayed pass. Hoblitzell kicked a neat Line-up:
signal practice and the speed of the goal. Score—W. U. P., 6; Tech, 0. W. U. P. TECH.
team in getting into action was very Brown kicked to Campbell, who re- Hoblitzell .... L. E.... Henderson
marked. About 3 o’clock Capt. Cal. turned 33 yards. Schmidt right Var» Doren ----------L. T........... Ramp
Marshall and the Wup team came on end for five yards and Springer four Grey ....................L. G................... Brown
the gridiron amid the cheers of the yards. An onside kick was recovered Turner ...............C................... Robinson
gold and blue contingent. After a by Turner for a gain of 20 yards. Wup Shuman ..............R. G.................. Foster
few minutes of signal work, Jud fumbled, Tech getting the ball on 35- Marshall ............R. T.............. Williams
Schmidt began punting and his ability yard line. Dowling tore off six yards. 'Campbell .........R. E................. Beekin
in this department of the game could Roura kicked 30 yards to Banbury, Swenson ............Q. B................ Hiltner
not be questioned. Referee Sugden who fumbled. Hiltner went around Springer ............L. H........ Urling
called the two captains to the center right end for 15 yards. Tech wTas Schmidt ..............R. H............. Dowling
of the field and Wup won the toss, penalized five yards. On a fake kick, W. Banbury . . .F. B............... Roura

---------------------------------------------------

12THE TARTAN
P. LUDEBUEHL & SON,
CUSTOM FITTING SHOES
$5.00 S4.00 S3.50
PENN AND FRANKSTOWN AVENUES 
East End
IMPROVED MACHINERY
GOOD WORK 
GOOD SERVICE
Established 1893 Both Phones
Substitutions—Mehl for Banbury, 
Klawuhn for Springer, McCormick for 
Campbell, Elliott for Van Doren, 
Crawford for Brown, Patterson for 
Urling. Touchdown, Schmidt. Goal, 
Hoblitzell. Referee, Walter Sugden, 
Har\ia<rd. Umpire, Dr. Simpson, F. 
and M. Head lineman, Homer Young. 
Time of halves, 20 and 25 minutes.
According to Director Baird, Michi­
gan will not violate conference rules 
after December 31. When asked as to 
the probability of Michigan being rein­
stated in the conference at its next 
meeting, he said:
“No, we will not be reinstated, be­
cause we were never out of the con­
ference. The conference rules that we 
are members of trie organization 
whether or not we compete with the 
other members; in fact, no matter 
what we do we are still members of 
the Big Nine—however, passive. They 
refused to play us, however, on the 
ground that they could maintain no 
relations with us while we were violat­
ing conference rules.”
Before and After Taking.
19C5.
“Ludie Burdick Weidlein:—“You 
students make me sick rah-rahing 
around here—you think you own the 
school.”
1907.
Stranger to Gaston—“Who was that
fellow at the game last Saturday 
with the sporty hat and the turned-up 
trousers, rah-rahing around there un­
til it reminded one of what Sherman 
said of war?”
Gaston—“Why, that was Ludie
Burdick Weidlein.”
The bequest of Miss Anna T. Jeanes 
to Swarthmore College of property 
estimated to be worth $1,000,000 pro­
vided the college abandon intercolle­
giate athletics, has brought to light 
the fact that the University of Penn­
sylvania once declined $500,000 offered 
by her on conditions that all intercol­
legiate sports be abandoned. Provost 
Harrison waited upon Miss Jeanes at 
a time when the university was badly 
in need of $500,000 and asked her for 
that amount. She argued that the 
recognition given to athletics had a de­
pressing effect upon students. And 
very strongly intimate dthat he could 
have $500,000 for the University of 
Pennsylvania upon the same terms. 
Provost Harrison evaded answering 
and someone else contributed the 
$500,000.
They say that Boughner is the 
prize “rough-houser” at the Tech- 
mont.
Mr. Denton has introduced a sys­
tem of taking the roll that cannot be 
beat. However, Gittins and Jacobs 
are hard at work trying to hit upon
a method by which they can get out 
ten minutes before the hour without 
I being caught.
A lot of new apparatus for use in 
the course in Physical Chemistry will 
arrive next week.
Welcome, 1912.
Capt. “Scotty” Henderson took up 
a position near the entrance of the 
assembly hall on Monday morning 
and disclosed to every husky day in­
dustrial the virtues of-foot-ball.
The day industrial school has 120 
students enrolled.
Price Kenton, ex-’09, has accepted 
a position with the Pittsburg Portable 
Radiator Company.
There are numerous articles that 
have been found around school and 
left with the Secretary that are as yet 
unclaimed. If you have lost any­
thing, see Mr. Field.
Dr. Hamerschlag is quoted as say­
ing at the close of Saturday’s contest: 
“Wup played the old style foot ball. 
Our boys played the new game. We 
held them even in the second half, 
and I am proud of our showing.”
Day Industrials Elect Officers.
At a meeting held in the Assembly 
Hall on last Monday morning the fol­
lowing officers were elected:
President—Wm. Davis, Pittsburg. 
Secretary—O. W. Robinson, Pitts­
burg.
A thousand or more blanks 011 which 
students had indicated the elective 
studies they wished to pursue in Co­
lumbia University this year, were 
thrown away by a thorough-going 
scrub woman two weeks ago. Had they 
not been traced to the city dump, at 
the foot of West 134th street and re­
claimed by sleuths from the university 
office, the period of registration of stu­
dents would have had to be extended 
and the corporation would have lost 
the extra fee of $5 paid by each stu­
dent who does not register before Sep­
tember 25.

---------------------------------------------------

THE TARTAN13
REVIEWS.
The October “Machinery” prints an 
article on the effects of moisture on 
wood that is of interest. In part it
says:
Wood, in its green state, contains 
moisture'in the pores oi the cells, 
like honey in a comb, and also in the 
substance of the cell walls. As sea­
soning begins, the moisture in the 
pores is first evaporated. This les­
sens the weight of the moisture, but 
does not affect its strength. It is not 
until the moisture in the substance of 
the cell walls is drawn upon, that the 
strength of the wood begins to in­
crease. Scientifically, this point is 
known as the “fiber-saturation point.” 
From this condition to that of abso­
lute dryness the gain in the strength 
of wood is somewhat remarkable. In 
the case of spruce, the strength is 
multiplied four times; indeed, spruce, 
in small sizes, thoroughly dried in an 
oven, is as strong, weight for weight, 
as steel. Even after the reabsorption 
of moisture, when the wood is again 
exposed to the air, the strength of 
the sticks is still from 50 to 150 per 
cent, greater than when it was green. 
When, in drying, the fiber-saturation 
point is passed, the strength of wood 
increases as drying progresses, in ac­
cordance with a definite law, and this 
law can be used to calculate, from 
the strength of a stick at one degree 
moisture, wiiat its strength will be 
at any other degree.
Manufacturers, engineers, and build­
ers need to know not only the strength 
but the weaknessness of the materials 
they use, and for this reason they are 
quite as much interested in knowing 
how timbers are weakened by knots, 
checks, cross-grain, and other defects, 
as they are in knowing how they are 
affected by moisture. It is obvious 
that where timbers are certain to be 
weakened by excessive moisture they 
will have to be used in larger sizes, 
for safety. So far engineers of tim­
ber tests, while showing that small 
pieces gain greatly in strength, o 
not advise counting on the same re­
sults in the seasoning of large tim­
bers, owing to the fact that the large 
timbers usually found in the market 
have defects which are sure to coun­
terbalance the gain from seasoning.
A Texas editor has found a few un- 
| used sorts in the cap case. Here is 
the result: The is & of our girls are 
small, tapering and beautifully shap­
ed; their iiii are as brilliant as ****; 
they are without | | in this or any 
other §; their frowns are like yf, and 
their 123465 excite ! ! ! ! of pleasure. 
Read this closely and do not ? its read­
ability, and try^^-—the situation.— 
Ex. -------------------
Plebes Elect Officers.
At a meeting held last week by the 
Class of 1910, the following perma­
nent officers were elected:
President—Martin, Bellevue, Pa.
Vice President—Mead, Pittsburg,
Pa.
Secretary—Keck, Delmont, Pa.
Treasurer—Wagner, New Florence, 
Pa.
historian—Nichols, Pittsburg, Pa.
Capt. Foot-ball Team—Boots, Pitts­
burg, Pa.
The University of Wisconsin pub 
lishes a literary magazine in addition 
to its daily. The publication contains 
from thirty to forty pages of reading 
matter. A cash prize of ten dollar? 
has been offered for the best contribu­
tion, either prose or poetry, written 
by an under-classman. This contest 
has been inaugurated to stimulate in­
terest among the under-class in liter­
ary work.
The University of Syracuse has let
the contract for a new gymnasium
which will cost $300,000. The build­
ing is to be a three story structure, 
with the main floor 210 feet long by 
100 feet wide. The building will be 
the largest gymnasium in the world, j 
exceeding that of Princeton, which 
has heretofore been the largest.? ? ?
Ohio State University has a band 
of about sixty pieces.
* ¡S= *
The total enrollment of the Univer­
sity of Alabama at the beginning of its 
seventy-sixth year was 363. Of these 
184 are new students.
At Trinity the total number of stu­
dents is 230, with a Freshman Class 
numbering 73.
Dickinson reports 122 new men, 
Bucknell 165, Princeton 400, and F. & 
M. 52.
B. W. SMITH
CUT FLOWERS
PICTURES AND FRAMING 
WALL PAPER
114 Atwocd St. Bet. 5th and Forbes
Special rates to students
Murdoch-Kerr Co.
Printers and Publishers
Ample Facilities 
Large Experience 
Satisfactory Service 
STRAWBERRY & CHERRY WAYS
-----Advanced showing of------
Devils, Ghosts, Witches,
BLACK CATS, JACK-O-LANTERNS 
For Hallow E’eo.
------AT—HALLER’S
IN THE IROQUOIS BLOCK,
R. W. Medick
OAKLAND
MEAT MARKET
CHOICE HOME DRESSED 
—lLeI & ryafen.
, 10kh vyn slI IeC
Both Phones.
Flowers
The largest stock on hand at all 
times is the one from which to 
select.
The prices are reasonable and 
consistent with the best quality.
A.W. SMITHS' T )
345 SIXTH AVENUE 
PITTSBURG, PA.

---------------------------------------------------

14TIIE TARTAN
Bell 117-R Schenley Open Evenings
gnC lC IC —culGbu
DENTIST
CHARLES BUILDING 
N. E. Cor. Forbes and Craig Sts. 
Pittsburg, Pa.
¿Julian. Kennedy
Engineerpittsbur<>
S. DIESCHER & SONS
CONSULTING ENGINEERS
Iron & Steel Works, Rolling Mills, 
Manufacturing Plants and En­
gineering Structures
Farmers Bank Bldg. Pittsburg, Pa.
Schlieper Engineering Co.
Engineers and Contractors 
705-707 WABASH BUILDING 
Pittsburg, Pa.
Bell Phone 1057 Court
GOOD THINGS TO EAT
AT THE PURK FOOD STORES OF
Geo. K. Stevenson & Co.
Sixth Avenue 
Down Town
Highland and Center
2Pre 2si
Both Phones 2097
The Edward E. Rieck Co.
SELECT 
CREAMERY PRODUCTS 
MILK CREAM 
and ICE CREAM
Cor Forbes and Stevenson Streets 
PITTSBURG, PA.
FOR EXPERTS
Engineers, Architects, Draughts­
men—Experts or Students . . .
Should get acquainted with the 
resources of supply for all Draw­
ing and Artists’ Materials offer­
ed by this houseKURTZ, LANGBEIN & SWARTZ,
6o6 Wood St., 6th Ave.
THE ECONOMY OF STEAM TUR­
BINES COMPARED WITH 
THAT OF RECIPROCAT­
ING ENGINES.
In a l’ecent issue of the Electrical 
World, Messrs. Steven and Hobart 
have presented a series of interesting 
tests under the above title in which 
they take up the operation of the 
steam turbine under various condi­
tions and its comparative qualities as 
related to the reciprocating engine. 
One of the points clearly brought out is 
the fallacy of the often-repeated state­
ment that the reciprocating engine 
suffers severely in economy at light 
loads. In their comparison of the 
Parson turbine and the reciprocating 
engine they show clearly that as­
suming engines to be designed with 
reference to light load efficiency, their 
economy suffers little or not at all 
within the range of loads which they 
should in practice carry. In refer­
ence to full loads on both types of en­
gines, the tests show that there is 
practically no difference of the steam 
consumption of both types.
With varying conditions, they have 
shown that under the conditions of a 
good vacuum and a low admission 
pressure, the steam turbine has the 
advantage over the reciprocating en­
gine, but generally speaking, the 
highest steam economies have been 
obtained with reciprocating engines, 
though a point very little -inferior has 
been reached by turbines working un­
der favorable conditions. The em­
ployment of superheat has a consid­
erably greater influence on the steam 
consumption of reciprocating engines 
than steam turbines. With vacuum, 
however, the reverse is the case, the 
economy of the turbine being more 
beneficially affected by a high vacuum 
than is the economy of the piston en­
gine.
In forecasting the future of the re­
ciprocating engine and the steam 
turbine, Messrs. Hobart and Stevens 
say: “The forecasting of the future
as regards the steam engine, whether 
of the turbine or reciprocating type, 
is by no means an easy matter; but 
one thing is certain, that the relative 
positions of the two types, so far as 
concerns steam consumption, will in 
the future depend to a very large ex­
tent upon the amount to which their 
special characteristics are developed 
and utilized.
“The characteristic of the steam 
turbine, in being but slightly depend­
ent upon the admission pressure, un­
doubtedly opens a path for the future, 
deviating from that along which the 
development of the piston engine will 
advance. The probable tendency in 
future designs of steam turbines, for 
large sizes, at any rate, will be to re­
duce the admission pressure and 
therefore the saturation temperature, 
thus permitting a greater range of 
superheat and removing to some ex­
tent the difficulties now encountered 
when dealing with high temperatures. 
In the case of the reciprocating en­
gine, whose steam economy is so 
greatly affected by the admission 
pressure, the amount of superheat 
used is limited, on account of the very 
high temperature to be dealt with, 
owing to the high admission pressure.
“There are certain obstacles in the 
way of the development of the steam 
turbine, consequent on the necessity 
of a more perfect condensing plant. 
The initial outlay would thus be con­
siderably increased, though there 
doubtless will follow a considerable 
advancement in the design of con­
densers, both as regards efficiency 
and cost.”
While the above conclusions have 
related only to the steam economy, 
there are many other factors which 
enter into practical consideration, 
such as the cost of oil and attendance, 
steam consumption of the auxiliaries, 
the relative rates of depreciation of 
the two types and the amount of en­
ergy necessary to attain the various 
degrees of superheating attained. 
Since, however, there are very few 
trustworthy tests made in commercial 
working, the data correlated by 
Messrs. ,Stevens and Hobart may be 
looked upon as one step toward at­
taining that end.—The Practical En­
gineer.
A freshman in Allegheny College 
gives the following as justification of 
Sunday studying:
“If a man be justified in helping the 
ass out of a hole on the Sabbath day, 
how much more would said ass be 
justified in helping himself out?”
* * *
The athletic association at Bates col­
lege is offering prizes for new songs 
and yells.

---------------------------------------------------

THE TARTAN15
SATURDAY’S FOOT BALL RESULTS
Local.
Wup -----GTech ...............0
w. & J.............34Dickinson ....0
East.
Penn .State...46Girove City...0
Princeton52Bucknell ........0
Harvard ........18Williams ....0
Carlisle ...........14Svracuse ........6
U. of P.............16Swarthmore .8
Yale .................52Holy Cross...0
Navy ...............6Vanderbilt .. .6
1?Trinity ........0
18Colgate ....0
Lafayette43Hamilton ....0
Haverford12Delaware ....0
F. & M.............17Susquehanna .0
N. York Univ.18Stevens ...........6
Dartmouth .. .6Mass. Agri’re.0
Tufts ...............1t,Norwich ........0
Vermont .........10Wesleyan ....5
W. Virginia...55Parkersburg ..0
Amherst .........17Ikiwdoin ........0
West.
Chicago .........27Indianapolis . .6
Nebraska30Grinnell ........4
Marietta .........40W/Va. Wesley'n0
Utah ...............94Denver ...........4
Ohio State28Dennison ....0
Allegheny ...0Geneva ...........0
Michigan46Mich. Agri....0
Minnesota . . .8Ames ...............0
Notre Dame..24Physicians . ..0
Western Res. .. 43Heidelberg ...0
Wooster ........12Ohio Wesleyan5
Fighting Spirit.
aided by gameness and jump. The 
last is but another word for spirit. 
The W. U. P. team did not have that, j 
They did not get together and rush I 
the smaller eleven off its feet. They 
did not determine to show that they 
were an eleven worthy of playing 
against such teams as Cornell.
To the average outsider, the fact 
they had been able to make but one 
touchdown in the first half, would 
have caused belief that they would 
return to the fray determined to run 
up a large score. But whether they 
had the determination or not, it did 
not show upon the field for the result 
is now history. No spirit at all, even 
worse than in the first half. V/ho 
had the spirit then? The little team 
or the big one?
Fall Clothes
READY TO WEAR
Suits & Overcoats
Exclusive patterns which you 
won’t find elsewhere. Prices from 
$20.00 to $35.00.
Hastings & Voigt
Open Evenings 
6121 PENN AVE. EAST END
Mr. Berge—“We have a fifty-ton lo­
comotive—”
Sivitz to Westbrook—“I’ll bet that 
is on the Huntingdon and Broad-top 
railroad.”
Heard During the Rail-riding Episode.
Mr. Pfouts (coming along path)— 
Sivits—“Let’s get Pfouts, they say 
he is an expert on wood.”
All good students are photographed by 
HENRY
For Class and Fraternity Groups
WE SAY—You can’t get them as good 
at any price. Students invited to in­
spect our work.
O. C. HENRY
Studio, 321 Fifth Ave. - Pittsburg, Pa.
(Our prices 110 higher than you pay for inferior 
work )
From the Pittsburg Leader.
What won the American League 
pennant for the Tigers? Fighting 
spirit.
What won the world’s champion­
ship series for the Cubs .; More spirit.
What caused the light Carnegie 
Technical school to hold the heavy 
more experienced W. U. P. eleven 
down to one touchdown and thus 
practically win a victory? Still more 
spirit.
And in the local contest Saturday 
a better example of the spirit which 
wins was never shown than in the 
game struggle which Tech put up. 
And on the other hand the W. U. P. 
team is to be censured.
In foot-ball there is but one thing 
which can be put up as the winner 
in the end, and that is team work,
JAMIESON SISTERS'
PHOTOGRAPHS
ARE WELL KNOWN BY PROMINENT 
PITTSBURGHERS
Wallace Blk. Center & Highland Aves.
The “Daily Princetonian” calls atten-!
tion to the fact that every college gen- :
eration at Princeton has witnessed at |
least one victory over Yale, and thak
unless there is to be a break in the j
rule Princeton must win from Yale
this year. The last Princeton victory " ~ ~ 7TGet In Line Fellow ! Your Next !over Yale was in 1903—DeWitts team. , , c ,When you want the services of a first classHowever, whether Princeton wins or barber, why don’t you go where the rest of the
. ... ,, , ,. i Tech men go, and you’ll never feel lonely. Allloses this year, the present generation the latest apjkiances-everything sanitary.
will have seen one game in which the THE TECH BARBER SHOP
Tigers were not beaten. That would C°Hn<F ^AN^UREN^Prop^
be a negative satisfaction which hardly our Motto—1’ Don’t Worry—Smile ! ”
would satisfy Nassau’s sons, though 
things might be worse.Stationery Engraving Embossing
GEO, L. KOPP £ CO,
DRAWING MATERIAL, SURVEYINGThe following rule has been made 
by the Faculty or Wesleyan, to go into 
effect this year: “No student shall be 
anowed to repi'esent the college on 704 Smithfield St. . . . Pittsburg, Pa.
INSTRUMENTS
more than two of the following or­
ganizations in any college year, nor on j
any two that are in progress at the j
same time of the year, without special i
permission from the committee on ad- j Q*?nK TTftli A
ministration: football, baseball, basket j 1. v/A.MHj1j, o7U0 r IItil AVe.
ball, track team, glee club.” I P. & A. Phone 121 Pittsburg, Pa.
GET YOUR 
Imported or Domestic Cigars, To­
baccos and all kinds Smokers’ 
Articles at

---------------------------------------------------

16THE TARTAN
New, Nobby 
Neckwear 
Just in by 
Express 
50c
QcÉZL
m 111 11 i i i 11 1111 mm4>INTIHEH4WOR
3714 FORBES ST,OAKLAND. 
PITTSBURG.
i)
New Line of 
Fancy Dress 
Shirts $i.co 
and $1.50
¦ii
Best Goods Made, Priced to suit your Purse.
Medium weight, cotton, Merino and wool, heavy fleece lined cotton, 
heavy all wool, prices range from $1.00 a suit up to1 $4.50 a suit. 
Union Suits at $1.00, $1.50, $2.50, $3.50 and $4.00.
“Dent’s” and “Lefi” Gloves, all the best street shades.
4*0+C>+04,04*0+0'K’4*i>4‘04,<>i<»*frC^C^v*!»04,04,<>fr04,l>!«>t<^>fr04<>K:4,0**0,frC^O,fr04*0+0*04<>+C^>4,04,<>^>KÖ
JOSEPH HORNE CO.
rluu LGlCUvbveA IeC
FOOT BALL GOODS
Captains of elevens, and each member of an 
eleven are hereby notified that all requisites 
for football can be purchased in Hornes’ Ath­
letic Division for very much less than usual 
prices charged in exclusive stores.
Footballs.....................$ .50 to $5.00 each.
Football Pants..........$ .50 to $4.00 pair.
Football Jersies. . . .$1.50 to $2.00 each. 
Football Sweaters. .$1.00 to $6.00 each.
Football Shoes........$3-50 to $3.75 pair.
Head Harness..........$1.00 to $3.00 each.
Shin Guards.................$ .50 to $1.25 pair.
Nose Guards.............$1.50 to $2.50 each.
Shoulder Pads..........................$ .50 each.
Ankle Braces..............$ .50 to $1.00 pair.
Stockings....................$ .25 to $1.00 pair.
Supporters.................$ .25 to $ .50 pair.
¦fr OAKLNDRCn this division we have all the
^ pennants of the colleges and schools of the o 
country, selling them from 10c to $1.00 each. ^
o If a specially designed pennant is required we |> 
£ will make it to order. 4.
+ 0
All School News 
All the Time
-IN-
LLTHE TARTAN
M «
*
*n*
If you are not a yearly subscriber, buy it at ^ 
v *
jjt the school—but $
£ ** o* D * GET THE TARTAN %
F *o r
0>t04i04<>4a04<^04>0ai>v‘l,0ii*0<l>0*!,vai*0'i»0'i,0,!’0*i><>f’c>,i’
