Carnegre-Meíloñ University 
ninmnGH psnnsyivania 15213asA0« n%Pom
vtiSft KicMittt Carn
CFP Elects New Slate; John Bell President
1? Fit Î
SilpT*!” n«»® í*e **«
! ** I «Û
•«il
¦ü
lililí
#***$ *4**1*' V ***»&.¦*»? * W£»4|gfe*$ «fe**
i *É£iU^* í« • ßtäkvM mm 0&w*z%&* , % » ^£K.>*4 9#$É
# . v>!*#:*:* »^i^yíí;
¦•• i;1» 
% - $*&$ U4Ífe*: 1"H sww C ¦
II •»**« «<*
^ ft. ******* 
t %, ¦ CO*iSx* sáSnM*
Î* ***«**# í*S*»«l »W
I <*ií;4>*Éf**í*S ¦ ;#***»***Q vó
sfetMM** * *«w*w»H WW*6*S
5 til
. ->~*120lii,MÔ
OÎ *», «¡***#asAA0
lido
?*,*, **».HO
12th to specify exactly the nature of 
“grades” and “options” and to settle auxi­
liary problems with the grading system.
The H&SS College Council is in the midst of finding an acceptable grading system. Photo: Ed Levine
Grade Option Established; 
Requirement Eliminated
On March 22 the H&SS College Council 
met before the largest number of observers 
^of the acadmeic year to discuss the col­
lege’s grading system. The meeting was 
long, tense, and frequently acrimonious. A 
time limit for settling the question was 
finally set and in a rushed confusion of 
motions, substitute motions, and numerous 
amendments it was decided that each stu­
dent have a choice of credit-no entry or 
A,B,C, no entry for each and every course.
^ Following the meeting, Dean Steinberg 
rejected this decision, citing the confused 
and unreasonable manner in which it was 
made, and observing that the decision re­
flected no concensus, as eight students and 
three faculty members carried the measure 
against eight faculty and no students.
ISSUE RECONSIDERED
t* The issue was again submitted to the 
^Council on April 5. Without the rush or 
tension of the earlier meeting, the Council 
sought consensus for two and one half 
hours. It was at last determined that stu­
dents would have options in elective 
courses and core requirements (the options 
not yet specified) and would receive grades 
for courses in their majors, with the départ­
ements empowered to make exceptions. It 
was also decided that written evaluations 
continue to be given in all courses.
In other business, the Council approved 
a new major in Philosophy to be adminis­
tered by the Department of History and 
Philosophy, and eliminated the quantita­
tive social science area requirement. In its 
Place is a requirement of any two social 
|Science courses.
I he Council will meet again on April
Mike Hill
John Bell, a junior at Delta Upsilon, 
heads the staff of newly elected officers of 
the Council of Fraternity Presidents, fol­
lowing the elections on March 20. The 
remainder of the executive committee in­
cludes Executive VP G.D. Zipf and Admin­
istrative VP John Sisson of SAE, Treasurer 
Jim Brogan of BTP, and Secretary Eugene 
Kerekes of DTD. All of the elected resume 
office immediately, and Bell will preside 
over the next meeting which will be held at 
SAE on April 10.
Asked about any major policies in mind 
for the upcoming year, Bell replied, “I’d 
like to see more fraternity involvement in 
the community, including a greater cooper­
ation within the fraternity system itself.”
Bram Elected 
Chairwoman
Leslie Bram, junior prelaw major, was 
elected Chairwoman of Student Senate on 
Tuesday, March 21. Ms. Bram has served 
Student Government for the past three 
years, her positions including secretary of 
the Senate and secretary of Pittsburgh 
Student Association. While a Senator, Ms. 
Bram was vice-Chairwoman of Finance 
Committee. She has also worked on Scotch 
and Soda and the TARTAN features staff.
Ms. Bram is the first woman to be elect­
ed to the chair of the Senate. When asked 
about the results, Ms. Bram refused to 
make any comment.
Jan Rosen and Steve Jurman - "In with the good, out with the old!"Photo: Jay Caras
Jurman: Tartan Editor
THE TARTAN has a new edi- 
tor-in-chief. Steve Jurman, senior in H&SS, 
was unanimously elected at a meeting on 
Wednesday afternoon, April 5. Steve has 
served as a member of the news staff and is 
best known for his notorious interview 
questions. When asked what his major aims 
with the TARTAN were, Steve replied, 
“Hopefully to better serve the varying seg­
ments of a very divergent campus, and to 
plug for less divergence and more commu­
nication.”
Outgoing editor Jan Rosen was both 
relieved and nostalgic about giving up the
position.“It’s been an amazing few months. 
I’ve met some superb people, learned an 
enormous amount about the university and 
how it works, as well as having just one hell
of a good time. I’d like to thank the staff 
in print for all they’ve done, and all the 
noise they put up with from me.
Jeff Ganek will continue in his position 
as news editor. Jim Brogen will replace 
Jude Heller as sporst editor, and Judy Nar- 
osny is the new features editor. Anyone 
interested in working on the TARTAN 
should stop down to room 50 anytime.
Bell also implied the possibility of working 
with the Panhellenic Council.
As is usual at their first meeting, the 
new council will entertain budget proposals
lllil
John Bell, new CFP Head Photo: Ed Levine 
and prospective plans for rush for the up­
coming semester, according to Executive 
VP G.D. Zipf. As to the latter, Bell said, “I 
don’t plan to continue first semester rush 
in its present form. It’s obvious that this 
year’s system did not work very well, and 
also that further changes are necessary.”
Paper Glider 
Competition 
At Carnival
The 1972 Spring Carnival paper airplane 
contest will be held on Saturday, April 22, 
at 2:00 pm. in the gym. The contest is 
open to CMU students, faculty, and staff.
Construction: Acceptable materials in 
the construction of airplanes are paper, 
glue, and tape. There is no minimum or 
maximum size requirement. All entries 
must “fly,” i.e., if the judges decide that a 
plane’s flight is due solely to the initial 
propulsion it will be disqualified. Only 
source of propulsion is to be the hand(s) of 
the pilot(s). There are four categories of 
competition. All entries will be launched 
form the stage. Materials will be supplied at 
the gym.
1. Accuracy: Contestants will be allow­
ed to choose any target distance greater 
than or equal to 25’. The contestant will 
then throw his one entry two times from 
the stage. Score is computed as the sum of 
the distances of the nose of the plane to 
the target post. Lowest score wins. 
Measurements will be made to the nearest 
half inch. 2. Time Duration: Contestants 
attempt to achieve the greatest airborne 
time. Time is defined as the sum of time 
durations, from release to complete stop, 
of two flights. Planes must glide-parachutes 
and other similar devices are not eligible. 3. 
Acrobatics: Contestants will try to put on 
the best acrobatic show. The decision of 
continued on page 7

---------------------------------------------------

Page 2 - THE TARTAN - Tuesday, April 11, 1972
editors note
There have been many changes in the past four years. But not enough. 
We still are involved in a vile and uncontrollable war, poverty, racism, 
sexism still exist. There is still the "urban crisis” and economic instability. 
We are trying to correct the problems, but there are many obstacles and 
often we as students or citizens don’t have the power to overcome them. 
However, there is at least one barrier to social change and peace that we 
DO have the power to break down. That barrier is the President.
After years of attempts, the 18 year olds have won the vote. Many 
skeptics feel that it is not a viable method of change, that working 
through the electoral system is a waste of time. But by asserting this right 
to vote, we can elect a leader who is responsive to the cries of citizens, 
who is able to reassign the priorities of this country.
The Pennsylvania primary is Tuesday, April 25. Although many scorn 
the primaries as meaningless, they directly influence the selection of 
candidates at the part conventions. Skeptics say that no one is winning 
primaries, and everyone is losing. The democratic party is destroying itself 
by splintering, they say. The primaries prove it, and it is sure to put Nixon 
back in the White House. We must stop ruminating and unite the power of 
our newly won franchise to elect a new president.
There is a candidate who has, throughout his senatorial career, fought 
for the civil and human rights of all people. He has co-sponsored every 
piece of civil rights legislation in the Senate during his term of office. He 
has opposed the draft, in favor of a volunteer army, proposed the 
McGovern-Hatfield amendment twice, supporting immediate troop with­
drawals and cutting off all funds to the war.
He opposed all SST expenditures and appropriations for the ABM. He 
has written legislation to alleviate poverty and hunger through extensive 
food programs. He is in favor of elimination of penalties for marijuana 
possession or use. He has pledged to include woman, black, and other 
minority representatives in cabinet positions and on the Supreme Court. 
The man is George McGovern.
There is a tendency to shrug and say no one can beat Nixon, least of all 
an open minded, progressive thinker like McGovern. But McGovern is 
willing to stick his neck out, to fight for the privilege of leading this 
country back to a position of constructive leadership,
On April 25th, / plan to use my vote to help McGovern in his fight. Use 
your vote - it took a long time to win it.
jr
This week, we carry a letter to the editor in reference to a story we ran 
on Iron City Beer. That company was the object of a year long boycott 
protesting discriminatory hiring practices. When a settlement finally was 
reached, angry whites began a counter boycott protesting the settlement.
The particular letter asserts that “The new hiring practices seem...even 
more discriminatory than the old since they specifically designate the 
percent (sic) of the new employees to be chosen on racial characteristics”. 
Perhaps the letter’s author does not realize that there were many whose 
designated percentage under the old system was zero. "Persons of equal 
ability might now be chosen purely on the basis of color”. NOW? For 
years color was the criterion exclusive of ability. The letter premises are 
most shaky. In any event, one hopes that the author’s is not strictly 
one-way righteousness.
But it is wrong to summarily dismiss the letter as racist apologetics, for 
there is a very real dilemna. Amends must be made to the black commun­
ity for years of injustices. But Iron City, the perpetrator of crime, does 
not suffer in making the situation right. The uninvolved non-black job 
applicant bears the brunt of the reparations.
That the problem indicates that an issue exists in a yet larger sense. 
Independent of race, not all applicants are hired, for there are not enough 
jobs. We do not have, and we do not need full employment.
The unemployed (over 5% for many months now) must turn to 
welfare, and therein lies the dilemna, and a double edged dilemna at that. 
It is a dilemna in a physical sense, for in many states welfare means bare 
survival; nowhere is it a truly adequate living. A society which can not 
employ all damns its surplus population to poverty.
Worse perhaps than the physical dilemna of unemployment is the 
spiritual dilemna. Our society (and its titular heads in Washington) defines 
personal worth and esteem in terms of work. Conversely, to be unemploy­
ed is to be slothful and sinful; we continually vilify and condemn the 
welfare recipient, who in turn must condemn himself as an unworthy 
person.
What words describe a nation that plans for unemployment and then 
denies an adequate living and a sense of self esteem to the unemployed?
Stephen Jurman
Letters:
Editor:
I read with great interest and equal 
dismay your article on the Iron City Beer 
Boycott that has taken a sudden turna­
bout. It seems that a portion of Pitts­
burgh’s white population has decided to 
counterboycott the brewery’s products in 
light of the new hiring procedures to be 
instituted with respect to blacks. I support 
them wholeheartedly.
As near as I have been able to find, our 
Constitution makes no reference to blacks 
or any other specific minority group. It 
certainly does provide for equality of all 
citizens but I am almost positive that 
Blacks haven’t been given some kind of 
special concession in this area. The new 
hiring policies seem, to me, to be even- 
more discriminatory than the old since 
they specifically designate the percent of 
new employees to be chosen on racial char­
acteristics. Persons of equal ability might 
now be chosen purely on the basis of color. 
In fact, a more qualified white (or Yellow 
or Red) applicant may now be rejected for 
employment in order that a lesser qualified 
Black may be hired to fill the year’s per­
centage quota. What this settlement then 
attempts is to correct past injustices with 
new injustices in violation of the proven 
adage that “two wrongs don't make a 
right.”
Other interesting questions arise from 
this practice. How many U.S. citizens of 
Nepalese descent are in the employ of Iron 
City and what is the percent of Nepalese in 
Pittsburgh? Ridiculous analogy? Show me 
where the Constitution gives American citi­
zens of Black Race more rights than those 
of Nepalese origin. While we search for that 
let’s find the part that gives Blacks extra 
rights in employment percentages over any­
one. Good luck. Another question that 
now plagues me is why stop with Iron City 
Beer? There must be hundreds of business 
establishments in Pittsburgh that don’t 
have the proper distribution right now. 
How about that Chinese restaurant downIin Oakland? Do they make it? Perhaps con­
cerned citizens should boycott them until 
the number of Blacks and Whites) in their 
employ becomes more realistic with Pitts­
burgh’s racial distribution. Another ridicu­
lous analogy? Neither breweries not Chi­
nese restaurants are given any special men­
tion in the Constitution.
It is unfortunate that the Iron City 
Brewing Company has become the victim 
of such absurd demands. Their past mis­
takes are not being corrected but instead 
aggravated. A policy that seeks to achieve 
equality by blatant discrimination is not 
only worthless but probably unlawful.
Have a Duke!
J. Bunda
Editor:
William S. Brewer is pledging himself to 
EXPENSE CUTTING REFORM in our 
State Government, maintaining that tax 
upon tax will progress if we do not have 
legislation to curb State Expenditures.
Mr. Brewer, age 47, a Real Estate Brok­
er with offices in Dormont, resides in Mt. 
Lebanon with his wife and five boys.
In announcing his candidacy for State 
Senator on the Republican Ticket, Mr. 
Brewer stated his desire to be a State Sena­
tor stems from having represented tax pay­
ing property owners for twenty years: “a 
group of people who do not have any lob­
byist, any organization behind them and 
have »little representation in this Common­
wealth.”
Brewer said,“this same group of tax 
payers have been forced to pay but take a 
back seat and are trampled under the feet 
of the vocal and violent minority.”
After serving three years in the Army 1 
during World War II, most of which was in 
Europe under General Eisenhower, William 
Brewer graduated from Waynesburg Col­
lege with a degree in Business Administra­
tion. Later he attended Pitt Graduate 
School and established a Real Estate Bro­
kerage business.
Mr. Brewer has twice been elected dele­
gate from Pennsylvania to the National Le- 1 
gion Convention. He has served on the Re­
publican Advisory Committees and in 1968 
was a Chairman of United Citizens for Nix- 
on-Agnew.
The 37th Senatorial District includes 
twenty-two communities in the South Hills 
area.
Thank you 
Brewer for Senator Committee
Editor:
Concerning your reply to Ms. Diana 
Cannan on undergraduates living in Mudge 
HOuse: AS you are not a graduate student 
perhaps you are unaware that there can be 
differences in work load, schedules, and 
priorities between graduate and undergrad­
uate students.
In addition, I think perhaps the grad- 
.uate student tends to be a more steady 
worker than the undergraduate, the under­
graduate tending to work and study in 
spurts with (noisy?) play periods in be­
tween.
These differences alone can create se­
vere conflicts. I think conflicts of this type 
are what Ms. Cannan was concerned with, 
not with, as you suggest, any personality 
clashes or conflicts between people of two 
different ages.
I do not think Ms. Cannon’s concern 
was “absurd” but perhaps your interpreta­
tion of her statement was.
John Gross
Editor:
May I submit a reply to Mr. Michael 
Steven (self-appointed spokesman for fra­
ternal criticism) who wrote some nasties in 
the TARTAN of 3/21/72 in reply to my 
letter of 3/14672? Or is that too far away 
to matter any more?
I have dis-lodged my head from my ass, 
Mike, and may tell you how to do this just 
in case you ever need to take a look a- 
round. The thing to do is to put your right 
hand on your right ear, and your left hand 
on your left ear. Then simply pull it out! 
Zip! Just like that!
Seriously, I’ve got to tell you boy, I’m 
on your side! Didn’t you read my letter 
properly? Hell, I like pigstyes. Some of my 
favorite places on campus are pigstyes. Did 
you think I was not what I said I was in my 
last letter? I’m all for garbage dumps, 
booze, dope (and dopes), littering and jag- 
gjn’ around. I’m a brother too remember 
(Oh how easily they forget). I just don’t 
pay someone for the need, I get it for 
free-eat your heart out fella.
You have got to look at this thing other 
than through your fraternity colored gal- 
sses. I never said it was “just fraternity men 
(kids)” who are to blame. I didn’t say 
anyone was to blame, I didn’t even say 
anything was the matter, except that them 
ignorant cheapskates who go to the free 
movie and yell should be thrown out.
This is no longer just for Mik, so let’s all

---------------------------------------------------

THE TARTAN — Tuesday, April 11, 1972 - Page 3
Announcements:
read along together. I would like to pro- 
^ pose that we organize our dis-order a little 
more, so that we can extend it to all phases 
of campus life and beyond!! If we can just 
dis-organize the little organization we see 
around us in every day living, we could 
quite easily and very logically explain away 
all these human characteristics, and live in 
complete harmony with our hang-ups and 
waste materials. Don’t you see? It’s only 
. ^ those false fears that make you feel a need 
for order, for peace, for love, for anything. 
What a phony way to be, to actually take 
offense at this new trend in universities. 
Love the litter, and the litter will love you. 
Overcome your human frailties and enjoy 
that which disgusts you or upsets you. 
Look, it isn’t every campus that has dog 
urine stains on the cafeteria floor. Can’t 
^ you see where I’m coming from my man?? 
What I’m trying to say is fuck it!
Joe Harsh
Editor:
As some of you students know I have 
been an instructor at Carnegie-Mellon 
teaching “Law in the Modern American 
Society” for about fifteen (15) years. Any 
$ students interested in supporting and cam­
paigning for Senator McGovern please con­
tact me by writing me at 425 Cochran 
Road, Mt. Lebanon, Pittsburgh, Pennsyl­
vania 15228, or calling me at 344-8778.
Your help is needed and greatly appre­
ciated.
John P. Flaherty, Jr.
^Editor-in-Chief.............................Jan Rosen
News Co-Editors.........................Frank Cox
Jeff Ganek
Politics..........................................Jim Slivka
Features Editor............................Tom Davis
Sports Editor...............................Jude Heller
Business Manager........................Alice Bright
Entertainment....................Stephen Saunders
Julio Vera
^Entertainment Staff.............Stephen Hamm
Janet Classman, Walter Koehler 
Terence Palso
News Staff...............................John Agatston
Anne Friedman, Mina Gerall 
Steve Jurman, Jon Manon 
Betsy Piez, Bob Stern 
Cliff Stevens, Robin Reiter 
Judy Narosny
^eatureE Staff........Leslie Bram, Marc Field
Sports Staff.............Chuck Bond, Dan Buis
Lauren Hutton, Allen Kohan 
Jim Powers, Jon Swierzewski
Photography Staff....................Elliot Arons
Jay Caras, Jim Hermann 
Roger Lawrence, Ed Levine
Copy Staff.................................Leslie Bram
Sandy Preuhs, Suzanne Bozzo
Advertising...............................Chris Sanders
Mike Swartzlander
Published every Tuesday during the aca­
demic year at Carnegie-Mellon University, 
Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania, 15213. Editorial 
snd Business offices in Skibo 50, Carneg­
ie-Mellon University, Telephone (412) 
682-4577.
The Carnegie-Mellon College/Community
Orchestra and Carnegie-Mellon Chorus will 
present a program observing the 75th An­
niversary of American Composer Virgil 
Thomson at Carnegie Music Hall, Oakland, 
Sunday April 16 at 8:30 pm. The concert 
with works by Thonson, Brahms, Debussy 
and Tchaikovsky, is free and open to the 
public.
Tickets are now on sale for Villanova Uni­
versity's Eleventh Intercollegiate Jazz Fes­
tival, scheduled for Friday and Saturday 
April 14-15 at the University Field House 
(on Lancaster Pike, Rt. 30, Villanova, Pa.).
Groups representing colleges from the 
Eastern States will be performing and com­
peting for prizes and bookings at top jazz 
spots in the country. In addition, Satur­
day's finals (8:00 pm.) will feature the 
Outstanding Combo and Big Band plus, in 
concert, Don Ellis & Orchestra. Ellis com­
posed and conducted the musical score to 
the smash-hit movie "The French Connec­
tion.”
Tickets for all performances are on sale 
by mail from Box 188, Villanova Univ., 
Villanova, Pa. 19085; or by calling 
215-527-2100 ext. 543.
Dr. Margaret Mead, noted American an­
thropologist, sociologist and author, will 
speak at Pittsburgh's Carnegie Music Hall at 
8:30 pm. Wednesday, April 12. Dr. Mead's 
appearance, sponsored by Ketchum, Mac- 
•Leod and Grove, Inc., is the fourth and 
final lecture of the 1971-72 Man and Ideas 
series arranged by the Women's Commit­
tee, Museum of Art, Carnegie Institute. Ti­
tle of her talk will be "Environment for 
Creativity."
The first foreign study program in the Ne­
therlands especially for American students 
will open at The American College of Am­
sterdam in September 1972. All instruc­
tion, by American and European faculty, 
will be given in English.
A full 15 credit hour curriculum is 
scheduled. In addition to interdisciplinary 
humanities and social science offerings, 
special courses in Dutch art, music and 
literature will provide an introduction to 
the culture of the Netherlands. A course in 
Environmental and Urban Studies will fo­
cus on contemporary ecological problems, 
in the "living laboratory" of Holland, the 
most densely populated country in the 
world. The open classroom approach will 
be used through field trips, museum and 
gallery visits, and independent study.
Tuition per semester is $850; students 
may spend a semester or year abroad. Liv­
ing accommodations in student hotels and 
with Dutch families are available. For ap­
plication forms and further information 
write to: U.S. Office, The American Col­
lege of Amsterdam, 62 Mantague Street, 
Brooklyn, N.Y. 11201.
Plans for the twelth annual Summer Ses­
sion at the Ivy School of Professional Art 
in downtown Pittsburgh were announced 
recently by Admissions Director Gregory 
Weaver.
Starting on June 19, the Summer Ses­
sion offerings will include Drawing and 
Painting, Figure Analysis, Color Theory 
and Design, Basic and Advanced Photogra­
phy and Filmmaking, Interior Design, 
Sculpture, Printmaking, and others. Sum­
mer session courses will be $75 apiece. All 
inquiries should be directed to the Director 
of Admissions, 207 Market Street, Pitts­
burgh, Pa. 15222.
The Commuters have an office! Rm. 53
The Commuter Council Office is now open 
most every afternoon, so come in to study, 
play cards, help build the Spring Carnival 
booth, write the Commuter's Handbook, 
plan Freshman Orientation for commuters 
or just talk. All commuters are welcome to 
come and help us work out our problems 
together.
The Third Annual Carnegie-Mellon Univer­
sity FILM FESTIVAL will be held this 
year on both Friday and Saturday even­
ings, April 14 and 15, at 8:30 pm. in the 
Porter Hall 100 theater, on Campus. The 
event is free to everyone.
The Festival is a collection of CMU 
student-made films gathered together by 
the Activities Board, and presented in a 
non-corrfpetitive program. The entire show 
will occur twice, once each evening.
Films are both 16mm and 8mm crea­
tions. All films shown are making their first 
festival appearance. No films shown in past 
years' programs are eligible.
CMU's Director of Activities, Robert 
McCurdy, is producer of the event. For 
further information, if desired, contace 
Rick Braverman, co-ordinator, CMU P.O. 
Box 132, 422-0565.
On April 11 at 9 pm. GASP will hold its
annual open meeting in the Graduate 
School of Public Health Auditorium, Uni­
versity of Pittsburgh. Guest speaker for this 
event will be Professor S. David Freeman, 
an expert on energy resources and a past 
member of the Federal Power Commission. 
Professor Freeman is a lawyer and a visiting 
professor at the University of Pittsburgh.
Other items on the agenda will be: the 
showing of the film "Don't Hold Your 
Breath” and the presentation of an award 
to the winner of the "Name the Baby of 
Dirty Gerite" Contest.
The Commuter Club is pleased to an­
nounce that it has collected $2.52 for the 
Bus Shelter Fund. Special thanks to the 
Greenmen that contributed.
"HAIR," the world's number one musical
hit, and the Nixon Theatre are soon to 
celebrate another first. When “HAIR" re­
turns April 12 for five days, it will be the 
first time that "HAIR” has returned to the 
same city for a third engagement.
The company which will be playing the 
Nixon Theatre is the Mercury "HAIR" In­
ternational company conprised of "HAIR” 
veternas of New York, Japan, Hawaii and 
other U.S. productions with some members 
form the Toronto and Montreal troupes.
"HAIR” is the show that broke all 
house records during its eight week stand 
at the Nixon 1*heatre 15 months ago. 
"HAIR” is the show that brought four hit 
tunes "Aquarius,” "Let the Sunshine in,” 
"Good Morning Starshine," and "Hair" to 
the number one position on the nations 
record charts.
While at the Nixon Theatre the com­
pany will play Wednesday and Thursday 
April 12 and 13, at 8:30 pm.; Friday April 
14 at 6:00 pm. and 10:00 pm.; Saturday 
April 15, at 2:30 pm. and 8:30 pm.; and 
Sunday at 2:30 pm.
If "HAIR” like love, was better the sec­
ond time around, the third time should be 
another smash, and the management urges 
"HAIR" lovers to send their mail orders in 
early so as not to be disappointed.
Wednesday, April 12 at Chatham College
Chapel Lounge at 8 pm. Stewart Brand, 
editor of Whole Earth Catalogue will give 
an informal address and discussion. All are 
invited, it is free, and sponsored by NSA.
If anybody has photographs or films of the
Happening which occurred last October 29, 
could you contact the Y-Office or Com­
munity Affairs? Remember Nuts and Big 
Balls, Inflatable, Pumpkin Carving Contest, 
etc? We got so involved we forgot to record 
the event for posterity, et. al. Y-Office is in 
Room 57, Skibo, ext. 234 or 416.
There will be a meeting of the Activities
Board Lecture Committee Thursday, April 
13 in Room 45 Skibo at 4:30. All interest­
ed persons are urged to attend.
Application forms for organizations inter­
ested in receiving financial programming 
assistance from the Activities Board Pro­
gramming Fund are available at the Skibo 
Information Desk.
There will be a meeting of the Activities
Board Films Committee Tuesday, April 11 
at 8:30 pm. in Room 33.
The H&SS College Council will meet Wed­
nesday, April 12 at 2.30 in MM 302. Final 
decisions about the new grading system 
will be made.
The work of three artists is currently on
view in the Veler Gallery of the Graduate 
School Of Industrial Administration 
(GSIA) at CMU.
Featured from April 3 through April 20 
are paintings, drawings and woodcuts by 
Laurel Godfrey; paintings and drawings by 
Elaine Sugarman; and ceramics by Chris­
tina Beaman.
A new show of CMU art students will open
at the CMU Students' Gallery Friday, April
7, continuing through April 19. Students 
represented in the exhibit are Arthur Char- 
tow, paintings; George Sfirri, prints; and
H.A. Hallstein, wood sculpture, aluminum 
works, and wooden toys.
The Lawrenceville neighborhood's second
annual Martin Luther King Memorial Pro­
gram will be held on Sunday, April 16 
from 3:00 to 5:00 pm. St. Augustine's 
Church at 37th Street and Butler will be 
the host church.
The program will include outstanding 
choirs, speakers, and awards to Lawrence­
ville people and organizations who are car­
rying on the work against poverty, war, 
and discrimination for which Dr. King lived 
and died. The public is welcome to attend 
this free program.
Please return your drug survey question­
naire and the Directions card. We need a 
100% response from your class to obtain 
an accurate view of the changes in your 
class as you have gone through college. If 
you need another set of survey material 
you may get it at Baker Hall 342E, or we 
will send them to you if you call extension 
465 and ask for a set.
If you have any questions about the 
survey, the confidentiality of the data, its 
purposes, etc., call Joel Goldstein at ext. 
500 or Jim Korn at ext. 465 and we will 
try to answer them. Thank you, seniors!
The First Unitarian Church of Pittsburgh,
Ellsworth and Morewood Avenues announ­
ces the following programs: Sunday, April 
16 at 10:00 am. the Roving Roundtable 
presents "A Day in the Life of a School 
Principal" Part II of a two-part series. Will­
iam Fisher, Principal at Alderdice Junior 
and Senior High School will be the speak­
er. At 11:00 the South Hills Unitarian Fel­
lowship will present a program entitled 
"The Greening of Shadyside-the Gentle 
Revolution Cometh."

---------------------------------------------------

Page 4 - THE TARTAN - Tuesday, April 1 1, 1972
Important Exhibit-Hewlett Gallery, Fine
Arts Building, Carnegie-Mellon University. 
Opening 8:00, April 11. Changing Paintings 
and Light Experiments by Shalom Neu­
man.
Lecture with slides and question period:
CHINA TODAY, A 25 YEAR CON­
TRAST, Bronson Clark, Executive Secre­
tary, American Friends Service Committee, 
Tuesday, April 18, 8:00 pm. Friends Meet­
ing House, 4836 Ellsworth Avenue.
A catalog listing Volunteer Opportunities
in Allegheny County has been published by 
the Volunteer Action Center and the Infor­
mation and Volunteer Services of Alleghe­
ny County. Students wishing to use this 
extensive resource guide may do so in the 
Office of Student Activities, Skibo 103 or 
the Y-Office of Community Affairs, Skibo 
57. Over 1,000 opportunities are listed.
Kits containing information about gradu­
ation, Commencement announcements, 
and Calendars of Commencement Events 
can be picked up by undergraduate and 
graduate candidates during the week of A- 
pril 17 at their departmental offices. Even­
ing students can pick up their packets in 
the Evening Classes Office (Warner Hall 
202), Monday and Wednesday, April 17 
and 19, between 6:30 pm. and 8:30 pm.
Regular Library hours will continue
through April 30. From May 1 to May 9 
the Library will open at the regular time 
and close at 1:45 am. Summer hours, start­
ing May 10 are: Monday-Friday 8:00 
am-5:00 pm; Saturday 9:00 am.-5:00 pm; 
closed Sunday. The library will be closed 
May 31, July 4, and September 4. On Sep­
tember 5 hours will be 8:00 am-5:00 pm; 
September 6 and 7: 8:00 am.-9:00 pm; and 
regular hours will resume September 8.
On Saturday April 15, at Heinz Hall the
Cameron Choir and its director, Don Wil­
kins, will participate in an international 
choral concert. The principal^ part of the 
program will be a concert by three touring 
choirs from the Lincoln Center (NYC) In­
ternational Choral Festival, which will be 
held in New York later in April. The visit­
ing choirs are: Coro Universitario de San 
Juan (Argentina)', The Gandharva Choir 
(New Delhi. India), and the Brno Academic 
Choir (Bron, Czechoslovakia).
The finale will bring together these 
three choruses plus the Cameron Choir and 
choirs from Chatham, Duquesne and Car- 
low. The finale will be directed by Don 
Wilkins. Program time is 8:30 pm.
McKeesport Little Theater presents their
Spring musical ''The Sound of Music." 
Opening night is Thursday, April 13 with 
performances on April 14,15,21,22,28,29 
May 5 and 6 at 8:30 pm. Also, matinee 
performances at 2:30 pm. on Sunday, A- 
pril 23 and 30 and May 7.
For reservations call the box office at 
673-1100. Ticket prices are $2.50 for ad­
ults and $1.25 for students (student tickets 
are available only on Thursday and Friday 
nights). Group rates are available for par­
ties of 25 or more.
Miss Abigail Abeles of the Home Econom­
ics Department, CMU, will present a paper 
at the Pittsburgh Dietetics Association 
Convention to be held in Pittsburgh, April 
28. For further information contact Mrs. 
Despo Neumeyer, 323 MMCC at Ext. 451.
Students interested in and eligible for the 
summer work study program please come 
to the Financial Aid Office, 210 Warner 
Hall, before April 20 to complete an appli­
cation and arrange for an interview. In or­
der to apply, a student must have already 
completed a Parents’ Confidential state­
ment for the 1972-73 academic year.
Bob Blackburn's Printmaking Workshop is
featured exhibit in the Ivy Gallery of the 
Ivy School of Professional Art, April 5 
through 28. The Printmaking Workshop, a 
'¦satellite exhibit of the Afro-American Art­
ists Presentation "USA71971 -71," repre­
sents the works of Mr. Blackburn and an 
international spectrum of his students.
The New York based Workshop was 
brought to Pittsburgh by the Drama Sec­
tion of the Carnegie Institute's Division of 
Education. It is one of several satellite ex­
hibits selected and presented throughout 
the city to spotlight the heritage and con­
tributions of Afro-American artists.
The success of Mr. Blackburn's four-dec­
ade career is emphasized by the presence of 
his works in many major collections. The 
Ivy Gallery is open to the public Monday 
through Saturday, 9 am. to 5 pm. at 207 
Market Street in downtown Pittsburgh.
Pianist Evelyn Swarthout will present a re­
cital on Sunday, April 16 at 8:30 pm. in 
the Chatham College Chapel. The public is 
invited to attend. There is no admission 
charge. Miss Swarthout, Chairman of the 
Piano Department at American University 
has received critical acclaim for her con­
certs and recitals at Constitution Hall with 
the National Symphony under both Hans 
Kindler and Howard Mitchell, at the Na­
tional Gallery of Art, the Phillips Collec­
tion and at American University.
She is a graduate of the University of 
Kansas and studied with Tobias Matthey in 
London. Miss Swarthout's program on Ap­
ril 16 will include: Barcarolle. Op. 60 by 
Chopin, Variations, Scherzo and Fugue on 
a Theme by Lou Harrison by Esther W. 
Ballou, Images by Debussy, and Theme and 
Variations, Op. 73 by Gabriel Faure.
All women graduates of CMU are eligible
for membership in the American Associa­
tion of University Women. AAUW has 
chapters in all 50 states, the District of 
Columbia and Guam. They offer col­
lege-educated women the stimulation to 
continue their intellectual growth theough 
a unique study program and to fulfill their 
responsibility to society through communi­
ty action projects especially designed to 
utilize their individual abilities. It also sup­
ports a six-million-dollar fellowships en­
dowment fund.
Further information about the organiza­
tion and membership introduction cards 
are available to and graduating senior from 
Dean Lloyd, MMCC 107, the University's 
liaison representative.
For juniors and seniors planning to teach
the following audio-visual course is offered 
this week: An Audio-Visual Training Pro­
gram lasting 2 sessions has been organized 
in Baker Hall 139 for the following even­
ings from 6:30 to 9:00 pm. Students and 
faculty may attend any 2 sessions they 
choose: April 10, April 11 and April 13.
These A-V training sessions will include 
the use of all the following projectors: 16 
mm, super and regular 8 mm, carousel, 
lantern slide, filmstrip, overhead and o- 
paque. It will also include the following 
audio equipment: mono, stereo and cas- 
ette; phonographs: mono and stereo. These 
sessions will include the basic operation of 
video tape recorders.
Students and faculty will be shown the 
processes of making various software, such 
as transparencies, slides, tape duplications, 
both reel to reel and casette, and video 
tape.
dnderthistle 
hand knitting yams
812 ivy street 
shad/side
films:
CAMPUS
THE LOVERS, directed by Louis Malle. 
Film Arts. Thursday, April 13. 4:30, 7:00, 
9:30 pm. Porter Hall 100. Admission: Film 
Arts Ticket.
THE SEVEN SAMARAI. Activities Board. 
Friday, April 14. 6:30, 9:30 pm. Doherty 
Hall 2210. Admission: $.50 with Film Arts 
Ticket.
3RD ANNUAL C-MU FILM FESTIVAL. 
Friday and Saturday, April 14 and 15. 
8:30 pm. Porter Hall 100. Free.
CANDY. MDC. Saturday, April 15. 5:30, 
8:00, 10:30 pm. Doherty Hall 2210. Free:
PITT
I AM CURIOUS (YELLOW). Pangborn 
Film Club. Wednesday and Thursday, April
12 and 13. 7:00, 9:30 pm. Benedum Aud­
itorium. Admission: $.75.
ALFIE. Pangborn Film Club. Thursday, 
April 13.8:15 pm. 120 Common Facilities. 
Admission: $.50.
YOU CAN'T CHEAT AN HONEST MAN 
and NEVER GIVE A SUCKER AN EVEN 
BREAK, starring W.C. Fields. Friday, April
14. 7:00, 9:30 pm. 120 Common Facil­
ities. Free.
COMMUNITY
JULIUS CAESAR, starring Marlon Brando. 
'Pittsburgh Playhouse. April 9-15. Sundays 
at 7:00, 9:00 pm, and Monday through 
Saturday at 7:30, 9:30 pm. Admission; 
$1.00.
THE POTTED PALM, MESHES OF THE 
AFTERNOON, FIREWORKS. BELLS OF 
ATLANTIS, IN THE STREET. Carnegie 
Lecture Hall. Sunday, April 16, 7:30 pm. 
Free.
QUEEN CHRISTINA, starring Greta 
Garbo. Pittsburgh Playhouse. April 16 
through 22. Sundays at 7:00, 9:00 pm. 
monday through Saturday at 7:30, 9:30 
pm. Admission: $1.00.
CHATHAM
BUTCH CASSIDY AND THE SUNDANCE 
KID, starring Paul Newman, Robert 
Redford, and Katherine Ross. Friday, April 
21. Chatham Chapel. 7:00, 9:30 pm. Ad­
mission: $1.00.
"Z" (with subtitles). Chatham Chapel. 
Monday, April 24 at 7:00, 9:30 pm. 
Admission: $.75. Proceeds go towards an­
nual community fund drive.
TELEVISION
CHARLIE CHAPLIN FESTIVAL WITH 
THE DOCUMENTARY "THE ETERNAL 
TRAMP,""THE ROUNDERS,""THE 
VAGABOND,"and "EASY STREET." 
Tuesday, April 11 at 8:00 pm. Channel 13.
THE CABINET OF DR. CALIGARI. Film 
Cfdyssey. Friday, April 14 at 8:30 pm on 
Channel 16, and Saturday, April 15 at 8:00 
pm on Channel 13.
Classified Ads--
Modern Furnished apartment for 3. Sum­
mer sublet with option. Squirrel Hill Call
422-8605 after 5.
Apartment to sublet. Open now to Septem­
ber. 1 or 2 males $50 month/each. Call 
Bob 683-5028.
Apartment summer sublet with option on
the lease. Shadyside, walking distance from 
CMU. Furnished, carpeted, utilities inclu­
ded, $175. Call 683-6730.
Got a good harmonica (metal), frisbee, or
sleeping bag (good cond.)? I'll buy 'em!! 
Call Murray 687-5034 or Write (Box 605).
Typing Theses, Manuscripts 65 cents
straight, $1.00 up for charts, biblio­
graphies. Mrs. Hall 362-2991 after 5 pm.
Folk guitar-Yamaha FG300. Big sound.
Two years old, like new, hard case. A. 
Cresswell ext. 461 or 521-3025
Earn extra income, part-time business, will
not interrupt your school work. Write 
name and phone number for details to P.O. 
Box 4939, Pittsburgh, Pa. 15206.
Personals:
The CMU Algerian Mercenary Society
Wants You, Testing for new recruits Thurs­
day under the statue.
Bozo in the alcove
Bernie in the well 
Cousins in the mourning sun.
You know I'll never tell.
J.I., Horses don't shoot "chickens before
they leap but changing at midstream won't 
make them drink, don't they?
Sleezy Perez, laughing last, you laugh at
least a penny, saved makes waste healthy, 
wealthy and wise and kite keys if you get 
the worm.
Politics by Ozob
Hoses are bled
Violets are rude
Sugar is Mary Poppin's spoon,
And so are him.
Harry had a hidden ham.
It's heat was high and low.
And every hair that Harry had, 
The ham was sure to hoe.
Irma Buck
Found: one part of a slide rule. Claim in
Warner Hall 111.
SCOTTY'SMU fOMCS AVENUI 
7*1« KNN AVOW»
•*4 «our« «.BUM NOCTH Of ITKA
OPEN TO 
YfSr SERVE YOV fcrrj 24 MOVRS ^ri A DAY
Batwetn ClauM or at Study Break

---------------------------------------------------

THE TARTAN - Tuesday, April 11, 1972 - Page 5
Selective Service System Synopsis
The Selective Service System has an­
nounced that 1972 prime induction can­
didates with lottery numbers 1 through 15 
will be issued induction orders with report­
ing dates from mid-April through May 31. 
This instruction by Draft Director Curtis 
W. Tarr to state headquarters and local 
boards is the first utilization of the recent­
ly authorized Uniform National Call pro­
cedure for ordering young men into the 
armed forces. Under the Uniform National 
Call, all eligible registrants with the same 
lottery numbers are issued induction orders 
to report in the same period, regardless of 
their locations in the country. The Tarr 
instruction is in response to a recent an­
nouncement by the Department of Defense 
of a combined April-May draft call of
15,000 men.
Selective Service System issued on 
March 10 the last major group of changes 
in regulations for administering the amend­
ed draft law. These latest changes mainly 
concern procedures for personal appear­
ances and appeals, and set a 15-day time 
limit following the mailing of a Notice of 
Classification card for beginning the appeal 
procedure. This 15-day limit may be ex­
tended only if the failure to respond was 
due to circumstances beyond the regis­
trant’s control. Local and appeal boards 
must give the registrant fifteen days notice 
of a scheduled appearance.
A registrant may now have up to three 
witnesses appear with him in his behalf at 
his appearance before the local board. A 
personal appearance may be requested be­
fore the appeal board, but no witnesses 
may be present. Should the decision be 
adverse after the appearance or appeal, the 
registrant may request that the reasons for 
the refusal for change of classification be 
furnished to him. Fifteen minutes will be 
allowed for the appearance and a quota of 
the board must be present.
Earlier changes in Selective Service regu­
lations included the elimination of student 
deferments for all students who were not 
qualified for 2-S deferments during the 
1970-71 regular academic year, and the 
establishment of a Uniform National Call 
for issuing induction orders so that all 
young men with the same lottery numbers 
who are subject to induction that year may 
expect induction notices at approximately 
the same time.
Both undergraduate and graduate stu­
dents who receive induction orders will 
have their induction postponed until the 
end of their current academic quarter or 
semester, except for those studnets in their 
last academic year, whose induction will be 
postponed until the end of the academic 
school year.
A new classification 1-H, an administrat­
ive of “holding” classification, has been 
established. Registrants classified 1—H will 
have inactive files and will not be examined 
or processed for induction unless they are 
reclassified out of Class 1-H into Class 1-A, 
which will agian establish their appeal 
rights. Class 1-A will be used only for those 
registrants currently expected to be draft­
ed. Unless there is a major change in milita­
ry manpower requirements, 1-H cutoff 
numbers are expected to remain unchanged 
during the period of vulnerability for each 
age group.
The order of call for induction among 
all registrants classified 1-A, 1-A-Oand 1-0 
(the last two classifications are for con­
scientious objectors) is as follows:
1. Volunteers, in the order in which 
volunteer.
2. Nonvolunteers in the Extended Prior­
ity Group, which consists of registrants 
whose numbers were reached but were not 
ordered for induction because they were in 
some process of delay. This group is sub­
ject to induction for the first three months
of the next year if their random sequence 
numbers are reached, and even later if the 
only reason they did not receive an induc­
tion notice was because of procedural de­
lay.
3. Nonvolunteers in the First Priority 
Selection Group in the order of their ran­
dom sequence numbers. A registrant goes 
into the First Priority Selection Group the 
January after he turns 19 or when he loses 
his deferrment.
4. Nonvolunteers in each of the lower 
priority selecrion groups, in turn, in order 
of their random sequence numbers. Each 
year a registrant is moved down one priori­
ty group if his number has not been 
reached.
5. Nonvolunteers between the ages of 
19 and 20, oldest first.
6. Nonvolunteers 26 and over, with ex­
tended liability because of having held a 
deferment, youngest first.
7. Nonvolunteers 18V£ to 19, oldest 
first.
Except in case of National emergency, 
men below category 3 are very unlikely to 
be called.
FS Meets
The seventh regular meeting of the Fa­
culty Senate was held on March 14. Among 
the main topics of discussion were the Uni­
versity’s research policy and the Environ­
mental Studies Insitute.
The discussion of the research policy 
centered on the applicability of the docu­
ment to the Humanities and Fine Arts Col­
leges. The question was raised as to 
whether certain activities going on in these 
colleges would qualify as research; would 
an exhibition of paintings be considered 
equivalent to a publication of research 
findings? A final decision concerning the 
proposed policy has been delayed until fur­
HELP WANTED
Coroner Cyril Wecht has been 
fighting our battles for years.
Now we have a chance to help 
him.
Dr. Wecht is running for the 
chairmanship for the Allegheny 
County Democratic Party. He 
wants to open up the party to 
us.
We must help him. We need 
volunteers . . . many volunteers.
There is so little time and so 
much to be done.
Volunteer today.
COMMITTEE FOR 
RESPONSIVE LEADERSHIP
Phone: Michael Simon Dennis Concilia
(521 -5920) (683-1048 or 683-3133)
Vote for WECHT - April 25, 1972
ther work can be done by the campus to 
present a paper representative of all re­
search on campus.
A progress report was offered by the 
Environmental Studies Institute. The Insti­
tute has compiled a list of the various envi­
ronmental activities of CMU. It has been 
found that over one million dollars is spent 
annually for research on campus. There has 
also been established a new graduate pro­
gram of environmental studies in C1T 
which provides a summer internship be­
tween the first and second years. The ulti­
mate success of the Institute “must be 
measured by its ability to attract new fund­
ing for research and education.”
The Faculty Senate has also undertaken 
two agenda items from the Women’s Com­
mission which call for a counselling-adviso­
ry service for women and a study of admis­
sion procedures for women. Work is also 
being done on the salary discrepancies exis­
ting between male and femal faculty mem­
bers.
Rhodes runs for 
Representative
Joe Rhodes, the student iiiember of the 
Scranton Commission (which investigated 
the killings at Kent and Jackson State Col­
leges) whose outspoken criticisms of the 
Nixon Administration drew an attack from 
Vice-President Agnew, is running for the 
Democratic nomination for State Repre­
sentative from the 24th District.
Rhodes is a native of Pittsburgh and 
attended Westinghouse High School. He 
was the first Black student body president 
at CalTech, and upon graduation became 
the first Black Junior Fellow at Harvard. 
He has taught at four Universities and has 
served in several government posts.
As an independent Democrat, Rhodes is 
charging that the regular party has failed to 
serve the needs of the 24th District. Any­
one interested in aiding the Rhodes pri­
mary campaign may phone 363-3069.
Ml presents 
money, medal
Dr. Peter C. Goldmark, a pioneer in 
audio-visual communications and a leader 
in technological solutions to modern urban 
problems, will receive Carnegie Mellon Uni­
versity’s Mellon Institute Award for 1972.
Dr. Goldmark, former president and di­
rector of research of CBS Laboratories, and 
now president of Goldmark Communica­
tions Corporation, will receive SI,000 and 
a commemorative medal at ceremonies in 
Mellon Institute Friday, April 16, 1972 at 
2:30 p.m.
Dr. Goldmark will also deliver the an­
nual Robert Kennedy Duncan Memorial 
lecture. His address is entitled “The New 
Rural Society.”
The award, the fifth since it was estab­
lished in 1967, honors individuals who 
have made outstanding contributions to 
science and its application to the needs of 
mankind. Scientific research and its practi­
cal application were prime considerations 
in the work of Dr. Robert K. Duncan, first 
Director of Mellon Institute.
Holder of some 160 patents. Dr. Gold­
mark is widely known for his creation of 
the long playing phonograph record, the 
first practical color television system, Elec­
tronic Video Recording, and his work in 
communications in space. His field sequen­
tial system was used in the first successful 
color television broadcast on August 27, 
1940 from atop the Chrysler Building in 
New York. Under Dr. Goldmark’s direct­
ion, the system was adapted to make pos­
sible the color television broadcasts to 
earth by the Apollo astronauts. Although 
Dr. Goldmark’s original system is not used 
in conventional color television broadcast­
ing, it is widely used in closed circuit sys­
tems.

---------------------------------------------------

Page 6 - THE TARTAN - Tuesday, April 11, 1972
Everything You Ever Wanted
To Know About Bean Sprouts
John Mears
“Those who accept the natural course and 
sequence of things and live in obedience to 
it are beyond joy and sorrow.”
...Ch‘in Yi
A Blurb About Sprouts
When vegetables are brought from a 
warm climate to a cold one such as Pitts­
burgh this time of year, it follows to reason 
that something must be used to keep them 
from spoiling. What keeps things from 
spoiling? One thing is cold storage. An­
other is chemicals. That’s right folks. Many 
refrigerator trucks are sprayed with sub­
stances you wouldn’t want to be near. How 
to avoid chemicals? Well, you can go live in 
a log cabin somewhere in the trackless 
wilds of Tibet or British Columbia. But if 
you’d like to stick it out in good old 
Fumesburg with your suffering friends, 
you could avoid foreign substances where 
possible.
How can you get fresh, organic nutri­
tious, unsprayed vegetables, good tasting, 
easy-to-fix, involving no daily trips to the 
market, for about five cents a pound? 
(That’s fresh daily.) Sprouts are the an­
swer. Nature’s way of keeping you healthy 
cheaply.
Sprouts are baby plants, four to five 
days old. They are tender, tasty, and del­
icious, and appear commonly in a dena­
tured, deflavored form in chop suey. But 
fresh they are out of sight and if your 
mouth is watering, don’t stop because, be­
sides costing about $.05/lb. in the sprouted 
state, they are also one of the most nutri­
tious foods you can eat. They are excellent 
sources of vitamins A„B,C,D,E,F,G,K,&U, 
and of minerals such as calcium, magnes­
ium, phosphorus, chlorine, potassium, sod­
ium, and silicon. They also have protein 
(all 8 essential amino acids), enzymes, and 
quick energy sugars (monosaccharides). All 
of these nutrients are in a readily digestible 
form. I could go on for pages on medical 
statements and health cures reported about 
sprouts. For one, British and Indian troops 
in WWI were cured of scurvy symptoms
with the vitamin C in sprouted peas and 
lentils.
How to make sprouts? Go to a health 
food store, a supermarket, or, preferably, 
to the Oakland Co-op and buy some dried 
lentils, mung beans (a Chinese sprouting 
bean), green peas, soybeans, wheat grains, 
and/or alfalfa seeds (to mention a few poss­
ibilities). The best container to sprout, 
from my own experience, is a small (8oz. 
to 1 qt.) jar covered at the top with a piece 
of cheese cloth. (Available at any hardware 
store, or use fine mosquito netting or bur­
lap). The cloth can be secured with string 
or a rubber band. Fill the jar about 1/10 
volume with seeds. Sprouts get big. Soak 
about 24 hrs. in a jarful of water, then 
drain and rinse two to four times a day for 
four to five days. The more often the rins­
ing, the better the sprouts. Store the grow­
ing sprouts in a dark place at 60 to 80 
degrees F. Place the jars on their side in a 
pan to catch dripping water. It’s very im­
portant to keep them moist and clean with 
rinsing.
It’ll be a proud day when you wake up 
and find your sprouts long, chewy, and 
tender, ready to be chewed thoughtfully. 
You can tell when they’re ready by the 
length of the long, white tap root; it shoud 
be at least 8 times the length of the dry 
seed itself.
How to fix these delightful delicacies 
for yourself or your loved ones? The use 
varies with the seed. Lentils, mung beans, 
and peas are really fine chilled (to preserve 
enzymes and vitamins), then quickly sau­
teed (fried) in oil at a low heat with onions 
and anything else you like: carrots, green 
or red peppers, squash, mushrooms, and 
celery are especially good. Sautee the other 
vegetables first, then add the sprouts and 
cover for 5-10 minutes. Serve with soy 
sauce and rice. Soybeans are good coked 
this way with carrots, but they take more 
like 10-15 minutes to cook. Any sprouts 
are good in your favorite vegetable casser­
ole, or in omelettes, soups, or sauces. 
Wheat or rye sprouts can be ground up and 
added to whole wheat bread. Alfalfa 
sprouts make great sandwiches on rye
Let's Get It Straight
WHO SATS SO?
nimGHmíT Why should I believe in a God I can't see, just because some preacher tells me I should? What virtue is there in a faith like that?
Ajtswdl* Children believe in that fashion. “My father AjtA so” is proof enough for them up to a certain age. Then they discover that Mom and Dad are not infallible, and they begin to ask questions, Though this is hard on parents, children must learn to thfalr for themselves.
To believe merely on some­one else’s say-so is not thebasis of Christian faith, nor is that what gives it merit in God’s eyes. The Bible says that God has chosen to save through “preaching” those whp are willing to believe. If and when any preacher pro­claims the truth about God, then God's own Holy Spirit speaks through him to those who have open hearts and minds.
If you will listen in that way to a man who faithfully preaches the Bible, God will speak through him to your heart The first thing His Holy Spirit will do is to con­vict you of being a sinner. Remember, it is no longer the preacher you are listen­
ing to, but the voice of God in your soul.
The second thing the Holy Spirit will show you is that you must accept Christ’s death as the basis for your salvation, that you must rely on His atonement for your sins. You are free to disbe­lieve any of man’s remedies for sin, but when the Holy Spirit brings the truth home to your heart, you reject it at the cost of your own souL
On the other hand, if you believe in Christ as your Sav­iour, for time and for eter­nity, you are not being a credulous fool, but are exer­cising faith in the witness of God’s Holy Spirit to your own heart Then, and only then, is faith a virtue.
bread with cheese and mustard. As you 
really get into it, raw sprouts (alfalfa, 
lentil, mung, pea, wheat, etc.) can be added 
to salads for the best nutrition of all.
You’ll find it nice to wake up in the 
morning and say hi to delicat little groping 
plants exploding into cheap meals. If you 
are on food contract and all this talk has 
you ready to cross your name off the list 
of numbers, take heart, heathen souls. 
Food Service is beginning to grow their 
own sprouts, and after some failures and 
successes, they will be serving sprouts in 
kingly fashion. Tell them how you feel 
when sprouts are served -- they would like 
to prepare them as tastily as possible.
Jus' Wanna Ride my 
Mo-ter-sickle
Attention, out there, all you 
mo’sickle freaks, purple perambulators, 
and other general bipeds: Carnegie- 
Mellon University is playing host to the 
First (hopefully) Annual Field Trials 
.¡Competition meet during Spring Carni­
val. Under the dutiful leadership of the 
renowned Pete Georgiades and the co­
sponsorship of the Pittsburgh M.M.D.C. 
and our Y-Office of Community Affairs, 
a course has been arranged on the I.M. 
Field that is competitive, fun, and in 
some areas, a little ridiculous.
Contrary to early rumors, the course 
is not difficult enough to confound a 
six-legged mule; we ran Gertrude, my 
loyal, little pony through the course, 
and aside from crapping on the back- 
stretch, she showed all the signs of en­
joying it. Also, contrary to early re­
ports, Charlie Numbnuts, that playful 
daredevil, will not be in attendance.
The course itself is of questionable 
length, depending on your particular 
riding style. For most of us, it is con­
tained in a rectangle about 100 ft. by 
180 ft. Speeds through all the sections 
are slow; count on not using any more 
than second gear. The course has its 
start near the parking lot. Upon leaving 
the starting gate, the rider goes straight 
ahead for a short distance, then jogs 
right under a “low bridge” then left and 
on to the “balloon bust.” For the unin­
itiated, the “balloon bust” is not a fal­
sie; you simply ride over (and break) a 
balloon fastened to the ground. From- 
the balloon bust the course continues 
left again to the slalom gates. The sla­
lom is similar to Olympic skiing slaloms. 
Speeds through this section may reach
the incredible rate of ten mph. Hard left 
and on to the teeter-totter. The course 
continues on to “the romp,” simply an 
inclined plane 8 ft. long that the parti­
cipant must ride up, and then coast 
down backwards. Then, the course goes 
left again (ever wonder where all those 
rumors about “leftist bikers” started?), 
and the next trap is the “teeth carry,” 
best explained as grabbing a tonge de­
pressor in your teeth and depositing it 
in a tub ten yards down the track. An­
other left turn leads to the log jump. 
Two logs are used; one larger for dirt 
bikes, the smaller for us street riders. I 
should note at this point that handicap 
points will be given to street bikes 
throughout the course to make them 
completely competitive with the dirt 
bikes. Upon exiting the jump trap, the 
course makes two quick rights and then 
a short 10 mph sprint to the finish line 
where the participant must stop within 
a 15 ft. stopping zone.
Scoring is done taking into account 
elapsed time, “dabs”(putting the foot 
down), and handicaps. Two trophies 
will be awarded for first and second 
place. Bikes must be street legal, i.e. full 
lighting, horns, and muffler.
We must emphasize that this is 
bubble-gum competition. Even if you’ve 
never ridden before, you’ve got as good 
a chance as “experts” like Charlie 
Numbnuts. The only excuse for not en­
tering is cowardice. Even Ron Taylor, 
head of Security, is entering. If you 
don’t enter come and watch, and bring 
your mama. Note: for bribes contact
me.
Mo’sickle Bob Shettel
FOR MORE INFORMATION - CALL DAYTIME: 261-2233
s2700°° Scholarship
For Information Call 
the U. S. Marine Officer Selection Office 
at 644-5819 or 644-5823.
OAKLAND HARDWARE & TOY CO.
CMIT* Convenient Headquarter* 
for Hardwire 
** Desk Lamps ** Key Service Artist Brushes 
* Hof Plates ^ Poster Paints ** School Supplies 
3406 Pmbm Avwmm OAKLAND Hmm 421-0923

---------------------------------------------------

THE TARTAN — Tuesday, April 11, 1972 — Page 7
Gallery offers 
money, credits
The search is on for next year’s direc­
tors for the CMU Student Gallery. The 
Gallery has been run by groups of three 
people, working together on an equal basis. 
These people have recieved full tuition re­
bates for the work they’ve done this year. 
The directors are Pepper Peterson and 
Carol Claar, Seniors, Graphic Design, and 
Geoffry Fried, Junior, English.
Next year, in an effort to reduce the 
amount of university subsidy, and at the 
same time bring the Gallery closer to an 
educational venture, the structure of its 
administration will be changed. There will 
be five positions: Director, Assistant Dir­
ector for Operations, Assitant Director for 
Public Relations, and two Assistants work­
ing under the Assistant Directors. The Dir­
ector will receive a full tuition rebate. He 
(or She) will be responsible for finances 
and day to day operations of the Gallery. 
The Director will also be responsible to the 
university community on all phases of 
Gallery operation. This position may be 
held by anyone in the university. The 
Assistant Director for Operations will be in 
charge of shows, show hanging and rela­
tions with the artists. The Assistant Dir­
ector for Public Relations will be in charge 
of all aspects of publicity for the Gallery. 
These two positions will receive half tui­
tion rebate and are open to anyone in the 
university. Finally, there will be two Assis­
tants who will receive 12 units credit for 
their work. One will work specifically on 
hanging shows and the other exclusively on 
designing all posters, invitations and ads for 
the gallery. These positions should prob­
ably be filled by P&S or Design Students.
Applications for these positions are av­
ailable at the Skibo Information Desk. 
They will also be handed out to all inter­
ested persons at a meeting, Thursday, April 
13, at 10:00 pm, in the CMU Students’ 
Gallery. The applications must be returned 
to the Information Desk by April 16.
FA News
Here are a few newsworthy items from 
the performing arts:
One performance of Drama’s recent pro­
duction, “The Way of the World” was a 
benefit for the Vietnam Boy’s Orphanage 
run by Richard Hughes, a CMU graduate. 
The benefit was quite successful with pa­
trons donations amounting to $2,100.
As part of the playwriting department’s 
committment to its members, the most 
outstanding play written this year is to be 
given full mainstage production. Richard 
Kalinowsky’s “Lifetime” has been chosen, 
and will be directed by Richard Shank.
As usual, there is constant activity in 
the department, such as the new M.F.A. 
(Masters in Fine Arts) program in television 
and film that is well under way.This pro­
gram is comprised of 4 or 5 candidates in 
all phases of the media, designing, direct­
ing, writing, and editing, and is totally in 
conjunction with WQED-TV.
Also exemplary of Drama’s activity is 
the continuation of the annual Park Players 
Tour of performances in Pittsburgh parks. 
In addition to performing, drama students 
will be teaching performing arts to children 
in the parks, under the direction of Baker 
Salsbury. This will be the first time the 
department has gone off campus with in­
structional work.
Grinding Conference Planned
Speakers from 13 foreign countries and 
the United States will present 48 papers at 
the first International Grinding Conference 
at CMU April 18-20.
Some 300 experts in the field of grind­
ing are expected to attend the Conference, 
which is being sponsored by the Processing 
Research Institute of CMU and the Grind­
ing Wheel Institute.
To assess the state of this increasingly 
important process and its future, the Con­
ference will focus on the design of more 
efficient grinding wheels, new develop­
ments in abrasive grain, and improved tech­
niques for grinding wheel manufacture.
Features speaker at the Conference ban­
quet, April 19, 6:30 pm. will be Hayward 
A. Gay, chairman, Editorial Advisory 
Board, Hitchcock Institute for Manage­
ment. He will speak on “The Need for 
Modernization in Industry,” especially in 
the light of rising labor costs and the great­
er need for increased productivity.
Papers have been contributed by the 
authors from Austria, Belguim, Canada, 
England, France, Germany, Hungary, Jap-
an, Netherlands, Portugal, Sweden, South 
Africa, the USSR, and the United States. 
The authors will not read their papers, 
which will be available before the confer­
ence, but a reporter will discuss highlights 
of one group of papers at a time and the 
authors will answer questions.
Participating from CMU will be Dr. Mil­
ton C. Shaw, organizer of the Conference 
and director of the Processing Research 
Institute and head of the mechanical engin­
eering department; Dr. G.K. Lai, principal 
research mechanical engineer; Dr. J.N. 
Brecker, assistant professor of mechanical 
engineering; and Dr. W.J. Sauer, visiting 
professor of mechanical engineering.
The welcoming address will be made by 
Dr. Edward R. Schatz, acting president of 
Carnegie-Mellon.
Sessions throughout the Conference will 
take place in Mellon Institute auditorium 
and will run from 9:00 am. to 5:00 pm. 
daily. Additional details on the meeting 
can be obtained from the mechanical en­
gineering department, Carnegie-Mellon Uni­
versity, Pittsburgh, 15213.
Courses increased
The Pennsylvania Council on Higher 
Education is pleased to announce the fol­
lowing courses available for the Fall Term, 
1972 - 73 academic year. These courses 
will be augmented by at least three addi­
tional courses offered by the newly deve­
loping Women’s Studies Program at Pitt. 
We would like to encourage you to cross 
register for those courses not available at 
your own institution. For further informa­
tion, consult the individual instructors di­
rectly, or contact your PCHE representa­
tive. At CMU, the PCHE representative is 
Ms. Patricia A. Waddy, Architecture.
CHATHAM
Role and Status of Women in Historical 
Perspective
Self Defense For Women 
CARLOW
Philosophy Through Literature 
Interdisciplinary Human Sexuality 
Introduction to Fiction:
The Identity of Women 
Culture and Personality
PITT
Images of Women in Drama 
Developmental and Reproductive 
Biology of Women
CARNEGIE MELLON
Women in Victorian England 
Women in the Literature of 
Victorian England: Repression 
and revolt 
Sex and Gender in Society
DUQUESNE
The Heroine in American Fiction 
Women in History 
Marriage and the Family
Planes cont.
the judges will be qualitative and final. One 
try per entrant. 4. Distance: Contestants 
attempt to achieve the greatest travel dis­
tance as measured perpendicular to the 
stage front. The score will be the sum of 
two flights. Highest score wins.
Contestants may enter as many events 
as they wish but may make only one entry 
in each event. Five dollar prizes will be 
awarded to the winner of each event. How­
ever, a contestant is only eligible for one 
prize.
SENIORS
STARTING SALARY UP TO $9500 
AFTER A 12-WEEK LEADERSHIP TRAINING COURSE.
Seniors from all majors are invited 
to call the Marine Officer Selection Office 
at 644-5819 or 644-5823 for further information.
SKI BARN SHOPS, Inc.
South Aiken at Pembroke Place 
Pittsburgh, Pa. 15232 
Phone 682-9106
BACKPACKING & TENNIS 
Join the mountain move . . . only at the SKI BARN
Come see the mountain mouse in action — 
daily 10-5 - wed. 10-9

---------------------------------------------------

Page 8 - THE TARTAN - Tuesday, April 11, 1972
1723 MURRAY AVENUE 
3918 FORBES AVENUEEUROPE 72
FLY TOTHEEUROPEAN CITY OF YOUR CHOICE 
ON AIRLINES SUCH AS PAN AM ¦ KLM TIA
Departing & Returning Daily
Office Open from 
10:00 a.m. To 10:00 p.m.
WE HAVE THE MOST COMPLETE EUROPEAN TRAVEL PROGRAM
- CAR LEASING, RENTALS & PURCHASING 
' INTRA-EUROPEAN STUDENT FLIGHTS 
• EURAIL PASSES • TOURS, ETC.
NATIONAL STUDENT TRAVEL SERVICES
5938 RAVENNA ST., PGH., PA. 
(412) 362-1991
FOR FREE
Pregnancy 
Counseling
PITTSBURGH
Call
422-7900
Woman's Medical Assistance
a non-prof it organization
The Activities Board 
Presents...
Sel ctliv
Friday, April 21st
CARNEGIE MUSIC HALL
83.50 with CMII ID and Film Card 
.50 without
All Seats Unreserved
«
%
*
I
i

---------------------------------------------------

THE TARTAN - Tuesday, April 11, 1972 - Page 9
Entries Solicited 
for Zhree Rivers festival
Entry forms are now being accepted for 
the 1972 Three Rivers ARts Festival, May
26 - June 4.
The 13th annual event is sponsored by 
the Carnegie Institute and will occupy the 
Gateway Center through the courtesy of 
the Equitable Life Assurance Society of 
the United States.
The exhibits will be open from noon to 
10 p.m. daily.
Rates for each of the entered shows are 
as follows: Open show, for painting and 
sculpture only, fees range from $10 per 
day for Memorial Day Weekend to a $5
Keep Off Grass
At a recent meeting, the Public Occa­
sions Coordinating Committee requested 
that students refrain from using the Fine 
Arts Lawn for athletic events for the re­
mainder of the spring so that it can be used 
for commencement exercises in May.
Speaking at this meeting, campus gener­
al foreman P. E. Howley, stated that the 
light thawing and accompanying hard play 
tears grass from the soil and renders it 
totally useless. If such use continues, the 
Fine Arts Lawn, located in front of Hunt 
Library and Fine Arts Building, will be like 
the grass in front of Skibo - “a useless 
quagmire.”
Also, the cost of replacing the damaged 
areas is approximately $.50 per square 
yard. It takes grass one and a half years to 
take firm root, so that indiscriminate use 
now would destroy the lawn for the next 
year as well.
Therefore, the Committee requests that 
all athletically and cost minded students 
confine their athletic pursuits to the intra­
mural field.
Free Concert
The Camegie-Mellon College/Communi­
ty Orchestra and the Carnegie-Mellon Chor­
us will present a free Spring Concert in 
Carnegie Music Hall, Oakland, Sunday, Ap­
ril 16 at 8:30 pm.
The program will celebrate the 75th an­
niversary of American composer Virgil 
Thomson. The concert will feature Thom­
son’s “Shipwreck and Love Scene,” a com­
position for orchestra and tenor based on 
Lord Byron’s poem “Don Juan.” The work 
was originally commissioned by the New 
York Philharmonic for its 125th anniver­
sary.
In the field of composition Thomson is 
famed for his two operas set to librettos by 
Gertrude Stein, “Four Saints in Three 
Acts” and “The Mother of Us All.” His 
orchestral works include “Symphony on a 
Hymn Tune,” “The Seine at Night” 
“Wheatfield at Noon” the ballet “Filling 
Station,” and the film music for “Louisi­
ana Story.”
Mr. Thomson, a former visiting Andrew 
Mellon Professor of Musicology at CMU, 
will be present for the concert. His new 
opera, “Lord Byron,” will be premiered in 
New York by the Julliard School of Music 
April 17.
Guest soloists will be Lynn Beckstrom, 
mezzo-soprano, Jean Bradel, soprano, and 
John Wesley Myers, tenor, All are graduate 
students in music at CMU. Ms. Bradel has 
been selected as one of 10 finalists in the 
Metropolitan Opera’s nationwide auditions. 
Auditions for the national winner will be 
held April 9 at New York’s Lincoln Center.
Chauncey Kelley, assistane head of mu­
sic, will conduct a program which, in addi­
tion to Thomson’s composition, includes 
works by Brahms, Debussy, and Tchaikov­
sky. . . , .
two-day package for either Tuesday and 
Wednesday or Thursday and Friday. A $10 
fee is requested for the weekend of June 6 
and 7. A package which will insure a place 
for the artist to exhibit his work for the 
entire festival can be purchased for $70.
This show will be hung in pavilions on 
the Hilton side of Liberty Avenue.
An exhibitor may submit eight works 
for the Crafts Show which will be placed in 
the third floor gallery of Carnegie Institute 
for judging. The fee for this exhibit is $4. 
Works will be received at the Institute from
10 a.m. to 4 p.m., April 28 and 29.
Four photographs may be submitted to 
the Photography Show for a $3 fee. These 
works are to be brought to Carnegie Insti­
tute, where they will hang in the third 
floor gallery for judging. The Institute will 
receive the art pieces from 10 a.m. to 1 
p.m.. April 28 and 29.
To be eligible, an applicant must be 18 
years of age and must reside within 110 
miles of Pittsburgh.
Entry forms may be obatined by send­
ing a business size, stamped, self addressed 
envelope to: Three Rivers Arts Festival 
Office, 4400 Forbes Ave., Pittsburgh, Pa. 
15213.
Responsdents are asked to specify 
which show they wish to enter.
Art Awards
John Buzogany, Mike Conrad and Nan­
cy Bechtold were awarded prizes at the 
Appalachian Corridors Art Exhibition in 
Charlestown, West Virginia on March 28 
The three CMU painting and sculp­
ture students won in a competitive field of 
artists from thirteen states.
Buzogany, a fifth year student, received 
a $200 Achievement Prize for several origi­
nal pieces of jewelry. He is a pupil of 
Walter Groer, associate professor and assis­
tant head of the Painting and Sculpture 
department. Bechtold, who has been study­
ing under Marjorie Johansen, won an equal 
Achievement Prize for her exhibition of 
weaving.
Mike COnrad, also a fifth year student, 
won a $285 Purchase Prize for his painting 
“Face Projection.” He is a pupil of Frank 
Dolphin, visiting Andrew Mellon professor 
from England.
All of the work submitted in the compe­
tition will be on exhibition at the Charles­
town Art Gallery of Sunrise from April 2 
to April 30. Sponsored by the Charlestown 
chapter of the National Council of Jewish 
Women, with financial aid from state and 
federal art groups, the program awarded 
$15,000 in prizes for 53 works in many 
fields of art.
Independent Buggy 
Wins Derby
The Carnegie Mellon Involvement Asso­
ciation won first palce and $100 at the 
annual University of Pittsburgh Soap Box 
Derby Race on March 16th. Their buggy 
will be entered in CMU’s buggy races dur­
ing Spring Carnival. Carnegie Mellon’s 
chapter of the Delta Upsilon finished se­
cond.
The race, which was run on Parkman 
Avenue, pitted sixteen vehicles in an elimi­
nation event. Each heat involved two con­
testants in a two out of three competition, 
so that the winning vehicle ran the course a 
total of eleven times. The course, unlike 
CMU’s long, hilly buggy course, is simply a 
straight hill. The pushers have a ten foot 
start, and then they push the buggies down 
the hill. The first to cross the finish line 
and then stop in a specified distance is the 
winner.
The CIA began last year when three 
CMU students, Carl Saurman, Frank Robb, 
and Larry Ross decided to build a buggy 
for the Spring Carnival races. After placing 
ninth last year, Larry designed and built a 
new buggy, the one which won at the Uni­
versity of Pittsburgh. The driver is Larry’s 
roommate Carl. Members of the group’s pit 
crew are CMU students Mark Sampsell, 
Frank Robb, Jeff Bordiga, and Calvin Yee.
Why doesn’t General Electric talk about thermal pollution when they talk about nuclear power plants?
General Electric has been talking nuclear power plants ever since we 
pioneered them in the fifties. And we think they can help solve America’s energy problems in the 70’s and 80’s. Bat we’re also aware that nuclear power has problems of its own. Problems worth talking about. Like the environment. Actually, we felt one of the greatest advantages of nuclear power was environ- mental.
Unlike fossil-fueled power plants, there is no smoke to pollute the air.But like fossil-fueled plants, there is warmed water released to sur­rounding waterways.
Cooling it.
We recognize thermal pollution as a serious problem-. And GE and Amer­ica’s utilities are working on thermal problems at nuclear sites on a plant-by-plant basis.Many people don’t realize, for example, that utilities are required by federal law to design and operate their plants with­in temperature limits prescribed by the states.
So utilities are spend­ing millions of dollars on 
dilution control systems, cooling ponds and cooling towers to comply.
ino®
inSTO
ESQ
l©8)a
[â®mim
I1®
\
j-----------------------------------------7 -------------ities are sponsoring basic 
research on heat exchange and its ef-
GENERAL
feet on aquatic life. More than 97 util­ities have been financially involved in over 300 such studies.
Good effects?
It’s been found, in some cases, adding heat to water can actually be bene­ficial. Warm irrigation water has ex­tended growing seasons.Warm water has created new wintering ponds) along water­fowl migrationv routes. Florida is usingit to grow shrimp and lobster. In Texas, it’s increasing the weight of commercial catfish by as much as 500%.
Work to be done.
Listing these benefits is not to beg the issue. Thermal effects remain a tough problem to solve at many sites. Each plant must be considered individu­ally, in its own environment, and this is being done.General Electric, the utilities and environmentalists will continue to work hard. Because we think the ad­
vantages of nuclear power far out­weigh the disadvantages.
Why are we running this ad?
It’s one ad of a series on the problems of man and his environment today. And the ways technology is helping to solve them.The problems of our environment (not just nuclear power problems) concern us because they will affect the future of this country and this planet. 
We have a stake in that future. As businessmen. And, simply, as people.If you are concerned too, we’d like to hear from you. Write General Elec­tric, Dept. 901-CN, 570 Lexington Avenue, New York, N.Y. 10022.
BUBMNOCM T

---------------------------------------------------

Page 10 - THE TARTAN - Tuesday, April 11,1972
LAST YEAR 27000 KIDS WERE LOOKING FOR A BETTER PLACE TO SLEEP IN EUROPE.
THIS YEAR TWA OFFERS STUTELPASS.
If you're planning to go to Europe this summer, 
don't be surprised if you find yourself sleeping in 
an uncomfortable place.
With more students than ever planning to take 
advantage of low airfares, decent sleeping accom­
modations are going to be tough to get.
Not that back-packing it isn't fun. But after a 
while the ground starts getting kind of hard.
You could play it safe and make reservations 
long in advance. But that can take all the fun out 
of traveling, since you may want to stay longer in 
one place, less in another, or change your plans 
altogether.
That’s why TWA has come out with Stu tel pass*
For only $4.80 a day, you get a decent place to 
sleep, continental breakfasts, tour discounts, 
mail-drop services and more.
Stutelpass works like this.
When you purchase your TWA tickets, you can 
also purchase the Stutelpass for 20,40, or 60 days. 
At only $4.80 a day.
The Stutelpass booklet contains 20 vouchers, 
which can be used every day or every few days.
In any 50 cities serviced by Stutelpass. If you 
don’t use them all, just return them for a refund.
All you have to do in Europe is either phone or 
visit any one of 12 Stutelpass offices before 3 PM. 
Tfell them where you want to go and they’ll arrange 
everything.
When you get to the guesthouse or student 
hotel, just hand them the voucher.
There's nothing more to do.
No taxes to pay.
No service charges to pay.
No advance reservations to make.
And for every 20 vouchers you buy TWA throws 
in 6 special vouchers. Which can be used for 
tickets to a play in London, the use of a bicycle 
in Amsterdam, tickets to a bullfight in Spain, a 
three-course meal in Venice, tickets to the Olympia 
Music Hall in Paris, a smorgasbord luncheon 
in Copenhagen and more.
All this for $4.80 a day.
TWA's Stutelpass.
Now you don't have to worry about finding a 
decent place to sleep.
"Stutelpass is a service mark owned exclusively by TWA.
PLEASE SEND ME MORE INFORMATION ' 
ON TWA's STUTELPASS.
TWA. P.O. Box 876 
Fanningdale, N.Y. 11735
My Travel Agent is
*
GG 22
SPECIA* PROGRAM 
SCOTCH 'N' SODA 1972:
wrctTHURSDAY NIGHT AT 9 PM.
EXCERPTS FROM THE MUSIC... 
INTERVIEWS WITH THE CAST....
RUGS
for less
with your ID Card
1000 9x12 Rugs 
$15 S19 S29 $49
also 6x9s, 12*12s, 12x15% ole.
• WHOLESALE FURNITURE •
BEDROOMS, LIVINGROOMS, ETC 
AVAILABLE AT NEARBY SHOWROOMS
Director Choirs, Butterfly Chairs, 
Lamps, etc. Larger Furniture thru 
Whole» 1» Showrooms.
CHASE’S
5426 WALNUT STREET, SHADYSIDE
OPEN DAILY 10 a.m. to 9 p.m. 
(Saturday 10 a.m. to 5 p.m.)
For Information . . . Cali 621-1025
WHAT ARE VOU BOING THIS SUMMER?
Pick-A-Project. Reach out, expand 
your world of people and ideas at the 
University of Pennsylvania Summer 
Sessions. Over 290 courses, from 
Archaeology to Zoology, offer credit 
toward an undergraduate, graduate 
or professional degree.
For complete information, mail 
this coupon today.
? First Session: May 23 to June 30
? Second Session: July 3 to Aug. 11
NAME-
ADDRESS-
CITY.
STATE-_2IP_
UNIVERSITY of 15 
PENNSYLVANIA
Summer Sessions 
Room 15C, College Hall 
Philadelphia, Pennsylvania 19104
WHY START...!?! 
? AT THE BOTTOM!
when you can start EXECUTIVE ROW 
as a pilot or navigator in the . . .
. . . UNITED STATES AIR FORCE . . .
? good pay
? steady advancement
? personal satisfaction
. . . ARE JUST A FEW BENEFITS . . . 
open to you as a commisioned offi­
cer on the Aerospace team. For the 
details:... CONTACT:
SGT. DICK ALLEN ... AT 644-5837

---------------------------------------------------

THE TARTAN - Tuesday, April 11, 1972 - Page 11
'Dick 
Predicts
Dick Figler
After reading a memo addressed to Jeff 
LaRochelle, Sweepstakes Committee Chair­
man, I felt then that we may see the record 
fall this year. The memo, in short, said that 
someone who worked for this city guaran­
teed that Tech and Frew Streets would be 
repaved by carnival time. The rumor that 
this person was a street cleaner is false. I 
won’t believe the promise until I see the 
steam roller completing the final section. 
In the Spring of 1968 I also heard that the 
streets would be repaved but I guess they 
ran out of asphalt.
The condition of the roadway on race 
day will be a prime factor influencing the 
order of finish. At the moment I can see 
six organizations which 1 consider possible 
contenders for the finals on April 22. They 
are Pika, Sigma Nu, Beta Theta Pi, Phi Kap, 
SAE and ATO, although not necessarily in 
that order. Discounting any D.N.F.’s or 
disqualifications among these organizations
I don’t predict any B buggies to be in the 
running for a trophy. For some reason, in 
every one of the past four carnivals, at least 
two buggies of the top six hopefuls either 
spin out, fail the brake test or have some­
thing go wrong with their entry. Because of 
this fact it is very hard to predict the top 
six finishers, so I will put it off until next 
week when I will have another chance to' 
see everyone in free roll again.
So far Phi Kap has looked the best on 
Sunday mornings, but my intuition says 
that Sigma Nu is going to be the team to 
beat.
Top Jocks
Photo: Jay Caras
ALL SCHOOL
I.M. BASKETBALL TEAMS
FIRST TEAM
Guards:
Rich Mullins 
John Radic
Forwards :
Dick Sehlin 
Mike Conrad
Centers:
Bob Sorrell 
MVP: Rich Mullins
Salt and Pepper 
Raiders
Salt and Pepper 
10 plus 2
Salt and Pepper 
Salt and Pepper
SECOND TEAM
Guards:
Ron Shinault 
Ed Aul
Forwards:
Bob Atkinson 
Jimmy Jordan
Centers:
Bob Grazzini 
MVP: tie 
Bob Sorrell 
Mike Conrad
Barry Benjamin, a fourth year student 
at CMU, has been chosen to appear in the
1972 edition of Outstanding College Ath­
letes of America on the basis of his contri­
bution to intramural athletics and to the 
school. Benjamin was voted Most Valuable 
Player for the third straight year in intra­
mural football. He quarterbacked his frat­
ernity team, Pi Kappa Alpha, to their third 
championship in as many years.
Benjamin, an AMS major, is presently 
the president of the intramural board, an 
announcer for WRCT, a member of Tau 
Beta Pi honorary society, and is ex-presi­
dent of his social fraternity.
Robert McIntyre, a senior metallurgy 
major, was also selected for this honor on 
the basis of his contribution to the varsity 
swim team and his service to the communi­
ty and school. He was a four-year letter- 
man and captain of the 71-72 swimming 
team.
McIntyre is a member of Sigma Mu so­
cial fraternity, Tau Beta Pi and Phi Kappa 
Phi honoraries, the president of the Varsity 
“C” Club, and a member of the Athletic 
Board.
10 plus 2 
ATO
Wild Bunch 
10 plus 2
Raiders
Salt and Pepper 
10 plus 2
INTRAMURAL RIFLE RESULTS 
1972
Photo: Jay Caras
Photo: Jay Caras
TEAMSCOREPLACE
Sigma Nu “A”12311st
SAE11892ndI.M. FOUL SHOOTING
Delta Tau Delta11873rd
Gamma Delta Iota11824th1. Pi Kappa Alpha390
Tau Delta Phi11735 th2. Salt and Pepper384
Sigma Nu “B”11056th3. Beta Theta Pi “A”370
Kappa Sigma “A”10827th4. Sigma Nu327
Kappa Sigma “B”7778th5. Beta Theta Pi “B”281
Beta Theta PiDid Not Fire
INDIVIDUAL LEADERS:
TOP FIVE1. E. Schenck PKA85
HIGH SHOOTERS2. R. Schenck PKA84
3. B. Benjamin PKA80
INDIVIDUAL TEAM SCORE3. R. Mullins S&P80
Hastings, E. Gamma Delta Iota2693. J. Murphy S&P80
Hirst, G. SAE2644. B. Carlock BTP79
Crossman, K. Sigma Nu“A”2584. G. Usy SN79
Ehrlick, K. Tau Delta Phi2584. M. Krottee S&P79
Yearick, C. Sigma Nu“A”258

---------------------------------------------------

Page 12 - THE TARTAN - Tuesday, April 11, 1972
Social obstetricians plan drug alternatives
A nationwide search for alternatives to 
drug abuse begins this month.
The National Institute of Mental Health 
will sponsor an imaginative effort to stimu­
late ideas for alternative pursuits that can 
compete effectively with the promise of 
drugs.
In this way, people will have a chance to 
explore the potential of their ideas in their 
own communities. Working separately, but 
sharing experiences and insights through a 
unique conferencing program, individuals 
will be first helped to form teams and then 
to create, plan, and try our specific alterna­
tives. What they learn will serve as a basis 
for inventing alternative pursuits-new 
things to do and other ways to go about 
the activities of everyday life.
“What these alternatives will be we can­
not say yet-and really wouldn’t want to if 
we could,” said Gerald N. Kurtz, NIMH 
director of Communications.
“Such pursuits and how they will be 
achieved is for community teams to work 
out. We feel we shouldn’t tell people what 
to do and try to run this program from the 
top down. That has happened too often in 
the past.
“It is almost impossible for a flow of 
invention and energy to spring up at the 
community level in response to outside 
guidelines and direction. The best ideas and 
the skills to carry them out are already 
there in the communities.”
“Our role,” he said,“is just to be mid­
wives for these new beginnings. You might 
call it social obstetrics.”
Conference Design, Inc., a California 
based group skilled in organizational devel­
opment, and community problem solving 
will conduct this program for NIMH. Sam 
Scheele, Program Manager for Conference 
Design, pointed out, “Instead of a one-time 
gathering of conferees to debate theory 
and make pronouncements, this program is 
aimed at orchestrating a locally-based pro­
cess of invention. What we’re looking for 
are practical concepts about new arrange­
ments for living life in our Third Century.” 
The first step in this effort to give birth 
to alternative pursuits is to invite the parti­
cipation of both young people and adults 
from a wide array of communities. As the 
original invitations go out, announcements 
in national publications and through 
specialized networks will explain the alter­
natives and invite additional participation. 
Those persons initially involved may be 
community leaders, but not necessarily. 
The need is rather for anyone in the com­
munity with ideas, a knowledge of how to 
make things work in their locale, plus per­
sistence and energy, Kurtz said.
Instigators in each community will be 
provided with information about potential 
alternative pursuits and suggestions on how 
to recruit others in their community to 
join in redefining the “pursuit of happi­
ness” for our time. As teams are organized, 
they will receive assistance by mail, using 
extensive descriptive and how-to materials, 
exercises, games, and tape cassettes in five 
rounds of dialog.
Through these exchanges, each local 
team will have access to expert consulta­
tion to 1) redefine their concepts, 2) learn 
what skills and resources they have as well 
as how to work together effectively, and 3) 
plan and decide the steps they can take 
next. They will also receive news about 
significant activities of other teams and will 
be able to. call for specific information as 
needs arise. Links will be made between 
communities working on projects with sim­
ilar concepts so that ideas and experiences 
which might prove useful to others will be 
exchanged as quickly as possible.
Later, teams who have made the most 
progress and have the greatest experience 
to share will be selected to attend “man­
oeuvres” in June at Warner Hot Springs, 
California. At these intensive sessions, rep­
resentatives from the teams will join 
well-known people from the arts, profes­
sional disciplines, business, sports, and 
other fields related to change and the fu­
ture. Teams will pool their experiences and 
work through gaming situations to learn 
and exercise skills that will improve their 
effectiveness. Their insights and experien­
ces at the manoeuvres will be shared 
through special reporting with other teams 
across the country.
Kurtz set the Alternative Pursuits pro­
ject in this perspective: “The National In­
stitute of Mental Health began a nation­
wide information and education campaign 
two years ago to combat the spreading of 
drug abuse. One of the goals of this effort 
was to somehow create alternatives to the 
use of drugs. Creating alternatives has be­
come more important. The threat of stiff 
legal sanctions and serious health conse­
quences do not appear to have negated the 
appeal of drugs for many youths and ad­
ults. Drug use has grown despite more ex­
tensive drug education and law enforce­
ment programs. This suggests that a new 
approach is needed.”
LAWYER’S ASS’T
in only 3 months — $9,000 or more to start
College graduates and other qualified persons (male and female)—our in­
structors (all practising lawyers) will train you to become a lawyer’s assistant, 
to perform paralegal services under a lawyer’s direction and supervision (but 
not as a legal secretary—in fact, you too will use the services of a legal 
secretary). Attend classes days or evenings for only 3 months. Housing ac­
commodations are available at an extra charge.
We will teach you practical, “how to" information and techniques on COR­
PORATIONS • SECURITIES REGULATION • LEGAL AND NON-LEGAL RESEARCH • 
DOMESTIC RELATIONS • LITIGATION AND TRIALS • MERGERS AND ACQUISI­
TIONS • TRUSTS AND ESTATES • REAL ESTATE • PUBLIC AND PRIVATE 
FINANCING • and much, much more.
• Enter a new and exciting field and become involved
• Do interesting research, analysing, discussing and writing
• Earn a high salary starting at $9,000 or more per year
• Accept responsibility
• Perform and be treated as a paralegal specialist
• Associate with lawyers and their clients
• Increase your knowledge and potential
• Become a skilled and valuable part of the growing legal industry
SUMMER CLASSES ARE NOW FORMING; APPLY FOR ADMISSION RIGHT AWAY.
Call or write j 
for FREE I 
BOOKLET ¡ 
NY (212)
TR 9-7500 II
©1972 by Paralegal Institute;
PARALEGAL INSTITUTE, DePt. 14 ZOne Fifth Ave., New York, N.Y. 10003
Name _ 
Address 
City__State
__Phone __
Apt
——Zip -
Alternative pursuits can be designed to 
compete with drug use to win the involve­
ment, interest, and expectations of individ­
uals. It has become apparent that for many 
young people drugs are a way to relate 
more satisfyingly to themselves and others 
and to fulfill needs unmet in any other 
way. The question was how to develop 
alternatives to drugs. A nationwide collab­
oration to build a diffuse capability to in­
vent alternative pursuits for particular set-
tings holds much promise.
“Thus,” Mr. Kurtz concluded, “many 
teams and interesting thinkers from around 
the country will be involved with alterna­
tive concepts for many weeks, as a result of 
the continuing exchange of information 
and coaching that will begin in early spring. 
This should produce exciting results.”
More information about this nationwide 
project is available from Alternative Pur­
suits, P.O. Box 861, Del Mar, Ca. 92014.
Peace Corps Seeks Persons
The Peace Corps is again vigorously 
seeking volunteers now that its fiscal ’72 
budget has been approved.
In January, Joseph Blatchford, the Di­
rector of ACTION (the volunteer agency 
which includes VISTA and the Peace 
COrps), had announced that it would be 
necessary to terminate the services of 
4,000 volunteers overseas, if Congress did 
not approve the Peace Corps budget re­
quest.
While Congress did not appropriate the 
full amount requested, the amount ap­
proved made it unnecessary to bring the 
volunteers home early.
Timothy J. Krieger, Philadelphia area 
ACTION Recrutiment manager, said, 
“Many college students have put off apply­
ing to the Peace Corps because they have 
heard so many stories about the budget 
problems.”
“Though we had a budget cut, we will 
still be able to send volunteersoverseas. 
Historically, our summer programs have 
commenced in late June. Our budget pro­
blems concern the fiscal year endinf June 
30, and therefore, we have advanced our 
new programs into the new fiscal year be­
ginning July 1. Therefore, the greatest time 
delay in programs would only be a few 
weeks.”
Krieger noted that Peace Corps can no
longer support an applicant’s request for an 
occupational draft deferment for Peace 
Corps service. At the present time, how­
ever, an applicant will be considered for 
Peace Corp service regardless of his draft 
status. Even if draft eligible males are
called, it is most likely that these numbers
would be small, supporting the encouraging 
picture for prospective Peace Corps and 
VISTA applicants.
“Those classified l-O, Conscientious 
Objectors,” said Krieger,“may request their 
local boards to assign them to Peace Corps 
as alternative service. The Board must ap­
prove Peace Corps as a work assignment.”
For more information, write to
ACTION Recruitment, 1405 Locust Street, 
Philadelphia, Pa. 19102, or call
215-597-9695.
FREE PROFESSIONAL 
DRAFT COUNSELING
B'NAI B'RITH HILLEL FOUNDATION 
315 South Bellefiald Avenue 
3rd Floor
Every Tuesday Evening
7:00 to 9:00 p.m.
621-8875
Campus Camera Headquarters
FOR AU YOUR 
PHOTOGRAPHIC NEEDS
WE RENT AND 
REPAIR TYPEWRITERS
CAMERA EXCHAN6E
3711 FORBES AVENUE
.Student Discount on Most Items'.
Phone: 683-2181
Fire SALE !
Fire Has Closed The 
MOUNTAIN TRAIL SHOP, MURRYSVILLE 
but you can salvage smoke and water damaged bargains at
10% to 80% off
TENTS: Gerry, Alpine Designs
SLEEPING BAGS: North Face, Alpine Designs, Blacks 
BACKPACKS, FRAMES, DAYPACKS: Kelty, Sierra Designs, Gerry, Universal 
HIKING BOOTS: Fabiano, Vasque (formerly Voyageur)
DOWN JACKETS: Sierra Designs, North Face, Alpine Designs, 
Mountain Products.
STOVES, FREEZE-DRIED FOODS, COOKWARE, BOOKS 
HARDWARE, ACCESSORIES
SALE BEGINS THRUSDAY, APRIL 13th AT
The MOUNTAIN TRAIL SHOP South
2506 West Liberty Avenue 
(next to Locante's Restaurant)
DAILY 12 -9 - SATURDAY 9-5 - CLOSED WEDNESDAY

---------------------------------------------------

THE TARTAN - Tuesday, April 11, 1972 - Page 13
GIRLS... ARE YOU LOOKING FOR 
A SUMMER COUNSELOR POSITION?
Applicants are now being accepted for the 1972 camp season.
MUST BE ABLE TO TEACH ONE OF THE FOLLOWING: 
Dancing, Piano Accompanist and Singing, Tennis, Trampoline, 
Scouting and Nature Study, Photography, Boating, Canoeing or Water Sking. 
COUNSELOR UNIT LEADERS:
Must be college graduate experienced in camping.
Able to plan schedule for activities, evening programs, etc. Supervise large staff.
WRITE CAMP DIRECTOR, 2409 SHELLEYDALE DR., 
BALTIMORE, MD. 21209
So*Ket6i*iy TUu* f
Air Force ROTC is now available to CMU Students 
Through Cross Enrollment With Pitt
TH/O YEAR PROGRAM GIVES YOU:
- $100 a month for your last two years in the University 
(undergraduate or graduate)
- a challenging job on graduation 
• managerial experience
Information is available in 
Mrs. Ryan's office, Warner Hall 209.
Applications & Inquiries are now being accepted at the 
AFROTC Office on Pitt Campus, Room 435, in the CathedraI.
no obligation 
take the test
go to summer orientation
make up your mind next September, but you must act now!! 
DEADLINE APRIL 30, 1972
PDfcK)
ryrrs éFriday and Saturday, April 14,15 
8:30pm PH 100
sS;- ?***' * _ :j ***»*«*»» < #?»*»»*** I **»•> * * * • ij ? " * ** *I #>#**><•«•• I ¦##**1«* **** :****¦ * ** * ******** ##*»** • •
- J » ¦ * * * •*#*•*•*• *»#«#***• *#*•«••* * »•****»•* 
> #*•***•*•
» * « * * * * • » * * * * * »«••*«••»**••* *« »»*•••»••*•• « • «.» «-*•***••** *#»***•••••••** « » .#*#«**••• •• .**••*•••••* •«*******••

---------------------------------------------------

Page 14 - THE TARTAN - Tuesday, April 11, 1972
Ardrey To Speak 
At C-MU
Robert Ardrey, controversial free-lance 
anthropologist, will speak at CMU Thurs­
day, April 13. The talk will be at 4:00 pm. 
in the Wherrett Room of Skibo.
Ardrey is the author of three anthropo- 
ligical bestsellers: THE TERRITORIAL 
IMPERATIVE (1966), AFRICAN GENE­
SIS (1961), and THE SOCIAL CON­
TRACT (1970).
In his most recent book Ardrey traces 
the evolutionary development of the socie­
tal survival mechanism, the group. Among 
other proposals he makes in the book are: 
a tax on surplus children, enforced contra­
ception, and a taboo against war.
» Maclbid
Although his works have enjoyed wide 
popular interest and success, Ardrey’s con­
clusions and interpretations have met with 
considerable disagreement among profes­
sional anthropologists.
Ardrey, 62, is a one-time playwright and 
film scenarist who now lives in Rome. In 
keeping with his style, Ardrey will probab-. 
ly bring a controversial viewpoint to the 
subject of his talk at CMU, “The Future of 
the University.” He has been quoted as 
saying: “I, for one, don’t believe in all this 
college education. You have tens of mil­
lions who never should go to college. They 
might make excellent mechanics.”
His present visit to the States is his first 
in two years.
Enthusiastice reports are being received 
from the students spending the Spring Se­
mester in Spain under the auspices of the 
Modern Language Department. Excerpts of 
a letter from Frank Levy, AMS‘ follows:
Dear Mrs. Miller:
By now I can consider myself a native 
of Madrid. It is a very pretty, modern city 
and I think I am in New York when I walk 
through the streets with miles of apart­
ments. There is only one or two sections of 
the old Madrid left. However, I have been 
to Segovia and Toledo and they are true 
Spanish cities; specially Toledo with its 
windy, narrow streets and buildings left 
over from Spains glory...I intend to travel 
many weekends to different parts of Spain. 
I am amazed at how sparsely populated 
Spain is outside of Madrid...I think in just 
two weeks I have'improved immensely. If I 
was in conversation class right now, I 
would be the best.
There are many American programs in 
Madrid and other parts of Spain. I was 
surprised to find many other students who 
had come for just the second semester. I 
don’t think I’ll have too much trouble with 
the courses. I am taking the following four 
courses: Phonetics, Advanced Composition 
and Syntax, Survey of Spanish literature, 
and Survey of Spanish American Litera­
ture.
I think I will enjoy these four months 
very much. The customs in Spain are quite 
different and like any other country it has 
its advantages and disadvantages.
So long for now, Frank Levy.
Unfortunately the other students do not 
wish to have their letters publicized. They 
report interesting activities and trips within 
Spain. ’
ROCK & ROLL ALL-STAR
SPECTACULAR
STANLEY THEATRE, Downtown 
TUES., APRIL 18*8 P.M.
starring
* JOEY DEE * CHUBBY CHECKERt The StaHighters The Twist King
* GARY U. S. BONDS
* JOHNNY THUNDER
* JOHN PAPI ORCHESTRA & His FANTASY GIRLS 
featuring CHUCK CORBY, Vocalist
* KATHY WRIGHT. Miss U.S.A. A-GO-GO * GLORIA LYNN
TICKETS: $5. in advance—$6. at door
Now on sale at Stanley Theatre Box Office and 
All Ticketron Outlets
For Ticket Information, Call 922*5300 
Produced by Adams Productions
The 1972 Spring Carnival Kite Event 
will be held on April 21 on the Intramural 
Field at 1 p.m.
Approximately fifty kites and string will 
be distributed to Carnegie Mellon students, 
faculty and staff. All who wish to partici­
pate are urged to bring their own tail. This 
is not a competitive event. Anyone who 
wants to bring a kite of their own design is 
welcome to do so.
ARCHITECTS! CMU needs designs for an 
inexpensive bus shelter to be placed along 
Forbes at Morewood. This would hopefully 
be built in the near future. Designs should 
be submitted to Mr. J. Kerr of Physical 
Plant, extension 675 or CCCP, Box 103.
PIRG To 
Hold Election
Election of PIRG’s nine member local 
board will be held Wednesday, April 12 
and Thursday April 13. Students may vote 
in Skibo lobby or Baker Hall. All candi­
dates have submitted petitions with the 
signatures of twenty five CMU students. A 
complete list of candidates and their plat­
forms will be available at the polls. The 
results of the election will be announced 
on Friday and the board will become oper­
ational next week.
Organizers Fran Sneider and Rob Stei- 
gerwalt presented PIRG’s proposal to Dr. 
Schatz shortly before vacation. Included in 
the presentation was an endorsement from 
Student Senate, supporting PIRG and ur­
ging positive administrative action on the 
program. The decision will be announced 
this week.
The proposal included a positive check 
off system for the collection of the two 
dollar student fee. With the positive check 
off, the student must add the fee to his or 
her bill before he or she will pay it - it will 
not be added automatically. Although 
PIRG petitioners collected 2,100 signatures 
for a negative check off, it was felt that the 
positive system would be more satisfactory 
to those who had previously opposed the 
financing structure. With the positive check 
off system, the mechanism for distributing 
refunds is made unnecessary.
The final structure for the monetary 
collection will be announced when an 
agreement is reached with the university 
administration.
