DR THOMAS S SA KER HM I6 
C I T
OAK STA FC-H FA
SOPH--HOP
WEBSTER HALL
FRIDAY$3.00
PEP--RALLY
GYMN
THURSDAY 11:30 j
VOL. XXIII, No. 9, PART I.CARNEGIE INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY, PITTSBURGH, PA.TUESDAY, NOVEMBER 20, 1928.
23 LONG YEARS, AND THEN 27-7
Carnegie Breaks Notre Dame’s Long 
Home Record with Decisive Win on 
Cartier Field at South Bend, 27-7
Steffenites Show Best Form 
of Year in Mud Battle 
With the Irish
ROSENZWEIG SHINESON THE £ND AROUND
Only N. Y. U. Stands in Way of Plaid’s Bid For National Honors
Many years ago Cartier Field, the home of the Fighting Irish of Notre Dame, was the scene of a desolate gathering-—the home team had lost. Last Saturday, 23 years later, the same field, was the scene of another, desplate gathering. . For a second time the home team had lost, and not to the Army, npr to Georgia Tech, nor to Minnesota, but to a team which they had sworn to defeat, a team which had toppled over their championship dreams two years ago, the Red Wave from Carnegie. This time there was no dpubt as to the supremacy of the victor. The just­ly famous Rockne was -not in Chi­cago, the Irish were not over­confident, the muddy field for 
' which Rockne had prayed was very much in evidence, and there was a record to preserve. But the Pitts­burghers, with ruthless confidence, set their minds to the task and brought home to Schenley a vic­tory, a 27-7 victory, and a clear right to he called the foremost 1 team in the East.It will be many days before one will hear no echoes of the triumph of the Plaid. Sons and grandsons of the present generation will hear from the lips of their fathers and grandfathers the tale of that mem­orable day in November, 1928, and view with admiratiofi the pictures of Captain Howdy Harpster,. Cy l.eiz'£ltcr, Five Yard Karcis, Rosie Rosenzwoig and the rest. The feats of every one of these men 
v/ill never be forgotten. No mem­ber of the Clan will forget the way in which Harpster passed, kicked, ran, and handled the team; how Rosenzvveig worked the famous “end around” as it has never been worked before; how the husky Karcis smashed and battered his way through the line for distances that would do credit to a speedy halfback; how Letzelter ran and received passes in a> manner com­parable only to his historic showing against the same team two years ago. And the line. How they did hold against the desperate, reckless, chargcs of Notre Dame’s stars. There arc no words eloquent enough 
to describe their heroic spirit. Al­most forgotten in favor of the sparkling play of the backfield, they made possible the gains of the backs and the repulsion of Notre Dame’s forces wheri they threaten­ed the goal line. Every man play­ed as lie had never played before and to every man should go a round of rousing cheers for his part in the victory.Now that Notre Dame has been defeated there is but one obstacle in the path of the Plaid, and that is New York University. After that let us hope that the master football minds of the 'country will recognize the superiority < of Car­
negie’s great team and pick them to represent the East against the West at that not too distant time when the gently falling snows blanket the rolling hills of Schen­ley and the Roses bloom in that not too far away clime in Califor­
nia.Play by Play Account of GameFirst quarter. Captains Harpster and Miller with the officials ¦ met in midfield. Captain Miller won the toss and chose to defend the south goal. Letzelfer at right half and Eyth at left half for Carnegie (Continued on Page 6)
Prominent Engineer
JOHN HAYS HAMMOND
Tau Beta Pi and Theta Tau 
To Call at Assembiy Today
Mr. L. E. Young of Pittsburgh Coal Co., To Talk on “Aims and Ideals of Tau Beta Pi’*
There will be an Engineering As­
sembly today at .1:30, in Room 218, 
Engineering Hall; This meeting is to be conducted by Tau Beta Pi, na­
tional cngineering^honorary society. 
The main . feature of this assembly 
will be the presentation of a slide 
rule to the sophomore who*had the 
highest, grades last year. This cus­
tom of Tau Beta Pi is being, con­
tinued. Following the slide rule 
presentation, Mr. L. E. Young, presi­dent of the Pittsburgh Coal Com­pany, will address the assembly. His topic will be "Aims 1 and Ideals of Ta-i Beta Pi.”Following Mr. Young’s address there will be the Tau ¦ Beta Pi and Thcta Tau calls. It is. customary to have two ¦ calls a year, one in the fall for seniors and another in the spring for juniors. Tau Beta Pi is an engineering fraternity which is 
similar to Phi Beta IC^ppa of schol­astic nature or Sigma Chi which calls men for scientific proficiency. Only the highest averages entitle a 
man to be called by either of these engineering fraternities.. Tau Beta Pi requires a man to rank scholastic­ism in the highest quarter of the Senior class or in the first eighth of the Junior class. Thcta Tau, na­tional professional engineering hon­orary, requires an average of “C.” It is interesting to note that there are three Tau Beta Pi pledges this (Continued on Page 4)
R. V. Davis of Y. M. C. A. 
Receives Tribute Medal
R. V. Davis, the head of the Carnegie Branch of the Y. M. C. A., received a medal on Armistice Day which was sent to him by the Mayor of the city of Verdun. These medals are being, sent to all thos£ who fought in the Verdun sector of the United States Army. The medals are' the city’s recogni­tion'of the tribute it feels that it owes to its defenders. On the medal is inscribed the phrase, "On the medal is inscribed the phrase: Ne Passe-Pas” “They shall not pass,” significant of the spirit of the defenders arid the Allies.
Results of Freshmen Intelligence Tests
Show Engineers and Industries Leading
The results of the intelligence tests, given to the freshmen each fall by the Department of Educa­tion and Psychology, show year in and year out, that the •Engineer­ing and Industries freshmen make the highest grades, followed close­ly by the Arts School men, the Margaret Morrison women and the Arts School women. The average scores, made by the students in various colleges, arc practically the 
same from year to year. The high­est score ever made on those tests is 551 out of a possible 635, while 
the lowest is 101 out of 635. Both these scores were made by Engi­neering and Industries freshmen of the class of 1932. The reason for the higher grades of the Engineer­ing and Industries men is that, about one-half the tests are along the lines of math, and science. All schools rank the same in English.
The tests now in use were con­structed by Professor Cleeton of 
the Department of Education and Psychology on the basis of re­
search work with the freshmen classes of 1923, 1924 and 1925. Since 
that time the tests have been modi­fied by the experience with other classes. Approximately one-half the questions are based on special parts'of high school subjects while the remainder attempt to measure the ability to think quickly. ‘The tests are graded in accord­ance with the grades -used here in school, i* e., A, B, C, etc. Reports 
containing individual rating's are placed in the hands of the deans, the directors of the various col­
leges and the other adihinistrativc offices. These ratings have no bearing upon the individual stu* dent’s grades, but the information 
sent to the offices is used to aid the student in adjusting himself to his course.
Checks made between these test grades and the P. Q.’s made by in­dividuals show: 1, that the chances are 5 to 1 that a man making an 
A .grade, on these tests will ••ate (Continued on Page 4)
TARTAN AND PITT WEEKLY 
STAFF EXCHANGE DEC. 11
The Pitt Weekly Staff will be in charge of the feature and editorial departments of the December 11 Tartan issue, while the Tartan staff will have charge of those de­partments of the December 14. Pitt weekly issue.This Pitt-Carnegie exchange of staffs is to be effected this year for the first time.- It is an entirely new idea and is expected to prove an interesting and valuable expe­rience for both staffs. The Pitt staff will move its headquarters from the Pitt campus to the Car­negie Tech campus, attempt to catch the atmosphere of Carnegie and put their interpretation of it in the Tartan features and editorials. The Tartan staff, in turn, will move (Continued on Page 2)
Conference Delegates 
From Many Countries
Different Aspects of Coal Industry To Be Discussed By Foreign Chemists
Various aspects of coal problems will be presented by representatives of many countries at the Second Coal Conference. Each country is more or less interested in specific concerns of its own, and the chem­ists will present the results of their work in their particular fields.
Quite a number of the German chemists are interested in^the prob­lem of pulverized coal in its many divisions. The use of powdered coal instead of petroleum in' en­gines, its transportation, its possi­bilities of developing high speed and great fuel economy—all these are being studied. Progress and the results will be presented at’ the Corlferencc. Synthetic products from coal, by-products of coal, utilization of gas, will also be con­sidered.
Rudolph Pawlikowski is .'the in­ventor of an internal combustion engine which' uses powdered coai instead of any of the derivatives of petroleum. He has been ex­perimenting for years on this en­gine and claims to have reached a stage in his experiments where it is a success. It has been said that the original Diesel engine was designed to use pulverized coal, but as 'thcr'deposit of ash destroyed the cylinders, Diesel adopted oil for his fuel.. The problem that Pawlikowski- has set for himself is to do away with the deposit of ash. It is obvious that the per­fecting of an internal combustion engine that will employ powdered coal will have a far reaching affect upon the coal industry! It is re­ported that the I.G. is working on a powdered coal engine and has already taken out certain patents. Pawlikowski’s paper will be read by Professor Trinks, of the Car­negie Institute of Technology be­cause the author has not been able to come to this country. Profes­sor Trinks has visited his shop and hasmad£ careful inspection of the engine.
Walter Kleinow has done a great deal of work on the development of a locomotive -which burns pulver­ized. coal. The experiments have been conducted under the auspices of the German General Electric Company. One of . these engines, is now being used on the German Railways. It is claimed to have the advantage of high speed and fuel economy. To be successful it must overcome serious engineering difficulties. An added obstacle to its widespread introduction is, the necessity of having either pulveriz­ing .machinery on the locomotive or storage of powdered coal located (Continued on Page 4)
ELECTRICAL HONORARYTO MAKE CALL TODAY
The Eta Kappa Nu, electrical honorary f r a t e r n i t y, announces through President Cooper that the annual Fall call will be made at the Science Assembly to be held today at 11:30, in Room 218, En­gineering Hall.Saturday evening, November 10, Sigma Chapter of Eta Kappa Nu met with the Pittsburgh Alumni Chapter for a banquet and busi­ness meeting at the Hotel Henry. There were present five of the members of Sigma Chapter, 13 members of the Alumni Chapter, and the National Executive. Sec­retary.
This was the first meeting of the two organizations since the installation of the Sigma Chapter at Carnegie. More frequent com­bination -meetings were agreed (Continued on Page 3)
ENGINEERING FRATERNITY TO HOLD MEETING NOV. 21
Theta^Tau, national professional engineering fraternity, will hold a meeting on Wednesday evening, November 21, in Room 53, Engineer­ing Hall. The meeting will be a technical meeting and an address will be given on some subject of interest to the members of the fra­ternity. _ A general discussion of the subject will follow the address. Pledges called at the Engineering Assembly today will attend the meeting.
Many Scientific Problems to be
Discussed by Members of Second
International Coal Conference
The “City of Smoke” is a fitting setting for the Second International Coal Conference. Pittsburgh lives on coal and should therefore be more interested in the coal con­ference than most of her sister cities.
The conference was opened yes- teiday with an address of welcome by President Baker. In the course of -the next few days if is ' ex­pected that many scientific investi­gations and discoveries made in the past two ye&rs, will be brought to light. - The interest of the con­gress, of course, is centered chiefly in coal, but because of the many by-products of the distillation of soft coal the discussion-, will neces­sarily include a great variety of subjects which are of commercial 
importance, and incidentally, of particular interest to the general public. - .One of the most outstand* ing matters to be considered is the liquefaction of coal to be used as fuel oil. The “^process origi­nated in Germany and seems at 
present to be of great interest to the Standard Oil Company. The Gulf Refining will also be repre­sented as a great many of the re­cent discoveries concern oil, gaso­line and other benzine compounds which fall almost exclusively in the
field of refining companies. The interest in synthetic petroleum, synthetic gasoline, benzine and wood alcohol is not confined wholly t;> the industries of which they are the immediate concern. Others are interested not just because of curiosity, but because they, realize the vast scientific and commercial importance of these recent discov­eries; at the least the discoveries arc a means to wealth. One of the most unique, products is syn­thetic rubber. It is hoped that from this conference there will be suggested some method for its profitable commercial manufacture.
Most people do not realize the close connections and the vast dif­ferences between the laboratory and industry. Here in this con­ference where applied science and true science are brought together 
most remarkable results can’ be ob­tained. The laboratory supplies the methods and it rejnains for indus­try to find a practical application. One of th'e discussions to be brought up in the coal congress clearly illustrates the above point— 
the propelling of automobiles by means of compression gas packed in small tubes placed at the side of the car. Experiment shows that (Continued on Page 5)
Student Council Approves 
School Activity Budgets
Petition and Constitution of Acleas, New Sophomore Women’s 
Honorary, Passed
At the last meeting of the Stu­dent Council a number of important matters were passed upon. A lai-0-.- 
majority of- the subjects that came up at the meeting had to do with the budgets of several of.' the student activities.The' budget of the Margaret Morri­son Senate .was presented and ap­proved, as was the budget of the tri-publications. The Puppet salaries budget was presented but no action will be taken until next week when the entire budget will be acted upon. The Arts Bail budget was also, ap­proved.
The budget, for the Tartan salaries was accepted and a motion carried that an appropriation of $1.50 from the activities fee of each day student be given the Tartan.The,salaries budget for the Thistle was accepted and a motion carried that, in the event tliat the Thistle is late in coming out, the editor and business manager of the magazine be fined 10 per cent of their salary for each week after the issuance date stated on the subscription card.A suggestion that the Glee Club be allowed to present tentative budgets was tabled until the next meeting.^Thc revised committee for the (Continued on page 5)
Fraternity Rushing Season 
Opens on November 24th
Varied Entertainment Programs Are Being Arranged by the Fraternities
Arts Ball Committee
Plans Ticket Campaign
The General Arts Ball Committee met again Thursday for the pur­pose of planning further the de­tails of the Ball, particularly the financial campaign.
The result of the meeting of the committee was the decision that all is _ dependent on the success of the ticket sale, which will begin immediately. The committee wishes to emphasize the necessity of an early payment of the first install­ment as everything, at present, is dependent on the money.In planning the system for col­lection they have established a program which they believe will make it. easier for the students to pay the assessment. The commit­tee has divided the total cost of the ticket into four payments and by so _ doing-they believe any finan­cial difficulty wll be avoded.The committee teports that all plans are being developed and nothing is being held up for money, although they are expecting an early response. In last week’s Tar­tan the entire committee was pub­lished but due to some error a few mistakes were made in the various chairmen and their offices. The correction's are: Sidney Warner issecretary of the ball, Bernard Wag­ner is chairman of the committee (Continued on page 5)
A. I. E. E. PLANS SMOKER AT FIRST; MONTHLY MEETING
A. I. E. E. started its season of activities with a monthly ¿meeting held on Wednesday evening, No­vember 7, at which the program consisted, of talks by two students on the subject, “Fields of Electrical Engineering.” The program will be continued at a meeting on Decem­ber 5. For this meeting a speaker from Westinghouse has been pro­cured, who will talk on “Mercury j Arc Rectifiers.” In addition, .a stu­dent paper by H. R. Greenmail, entered for competition in the A. I. E. E. contest, will be presented. CContinued on Page 3)
Carnegie’s deferred rushing sea- 
DRT will open Saturday morning, •ember 2*t, at 8:30 a. m., extend over the Thanksgiving vacation and close with the period of si­lence which starts at midnight, Saturday, December 8.The fraternity men are busily compiling lists of plebes in whom they are interested and have sched­uled' for the rushing program a variety of cntertainrrient. Theater parties, swimming parties, dances, teas, bridges and dinners are being planned by the various, houses in order to properly welcome the pros­pective, pledges; Rushing season is the topic of much conversation at present and soon the freshmen will find themselves in a whirl of the usual fraternity entertainment.Fraternities as well as freshmen, should be sure to recognize the rushing rules as set forth by the Interfraternity Council. The more important of these regulations:1. Plebes must leave fraternity houses before nine in the evening on any night preceding a. school day.
2. Bids for membership may be extended any time during the period beginning Monday, ‘TDecem-(Continued on Page 3)
Sophomore Women Form 
New Campus Honorary
At a meeting of the Student Council last Tuesday, Acleas, the new honorary society for Sopho­more women, was officially recog­nized and its constitution accepted. Fifteen sophomore women from Margaret Morrison and Arts School have been chosen as charter mem­bers of the society on a basis of high scholarship and leadership in activities. The club has already elected its. officers for this year who are as follows: President,Ruth Buckwalter, sophomore in the social work department 'of Mar­garet Morrison; vice president, Helen Mylrea, a sophomore in the music department; secretary-treas- urer, Faith _ Hanna, a sophomore in the painting and decorating de­partment.Plans for this newest honorary on the campus were begun by a .group of last year’s sophomore women who organized the club temporarily and then helped to draw up the constitution of the present permanent organization. According to the constitution, sophomore women who have an average of at least four quality points per unit, who have been 
outstanding^ in leadership and serv­ice in activities during their fresh­man year and who rank high in (Continued . on Page 3)
STAFF VACANCIES OPEN ON CARNEGIE QUARTERLY
All students who are interested in selling advertisements for the Carnegie Quarterly should . commu­nicate with Elmer Normandeau of the printing department and report at the Tartan office today during the 12:30 hour if possible.The calling of candidates for the Business Staff will b'e followed later by a call to the Editorial staff. The 
staff is as yet_ unorganized owing to the graduation of most of the former staff last June. Candidates reporting at this, time will be enabled to compete^ for executive positions on the Business Staff.
NEW STUDENT DIRECTORY 
ON SALE ON CAMPUS TODAY
The 1928-1929 student directory makes its appearance today. As there are only 750 copies for sale, prompt purchasing is advisable.In comparison with those of last year the directories of this year are not only larger in size, but more complete in information which they contain. The names, classes, courses, addresses and telephone numbers of every student'enrolled in the day schools of Carnegie are listed, together with a complete list of all fraternities and sororities and their respective members. A sepa rate list of student1 council, mem­bers is also included.
The members of fraternities and sororities will find the early pub­lication of_ this year's directory (Continued on Page 4)
YV. P. McCracken To Speak 
At Carnegie Day Exercises
Classes In All Schools To Be Dis­
missed To Permit Students To Attend Programme
The speaker at the Carnegie Day exercises to be observed Tuesday, November 27, at Carnegie Music Hall, will be Hon. William P. Mc­Cracken, Jr., assistant * secretary of aeronautics in the United States De­partment of Commerce. Mr. Mc­Cracken, a graduate of the Univer­sity of Chicago, where he received a Ph.B.- degree in 1907, was formerly assistant attorney general of the state of Illinois.Dr. Frederick P. Keppel, of New York, president of the Carnegie Foundation 'will unveil the Hammer- schlag Memorial Tablet. The tablet, which will be placed on the north wall of the Administration building is in commemoration of Carnegie’s first president.
Classes in all schools will be dis­missed from 10:30 to 1:30 to enable the students to take part in the ex­ercises. A parade will form on the campus, and headed by the Kiltie Band, will march to the Music Hall. The faculty marshals for the parade will be: Major Taylor, Chief Mar­shall; Professors Blaisdell, Kirkpat­rick, Stanton and Lieutenants Car­ter and Cothron. Council has ap­pointed the Senior class presidents as they are: Annabelle Turner,Senior of Margaret Morrison, Har­vey White of Industries, William Carson, Senior of Engineering, and John Barr of Arts.
A meeting of all njarshals will be held Friday, "November 23, at 12:30 p. m., in Room 235-A Industries: Scholarship holders 'will march in a body to the assembly, and will sit in a reserved section at the Music Hall. Individual notices will be sent to all holders, before the exercises, by the Committee on Public Occa­sions.
Other parts of the program will be the awarding of scholarship cups to the fraternity, sorority ar^d dormi­tory, which rated highest scholastic­ally last year. Alpha. Tau, Indus­tries honorary, will make a call.The musical program for the as­sembly has been announced as fol­lows :Organ PreludeProcession March in E-flat--------------------Guirand Matthew FreyOrchestraWalther’s Preisleid” from “DieMeistersinger” --------------Wagner(Under direction of Prof. O’Brien.) Orchestra“March Militaire”----------------------Schubert DamroschOrgan Postlude “Hallelujah Chorus”Handel-GaulSpecial meeting places for the vari- 
(Continued on page 5)
PEP COMMITTEE STIRS UP 
SPIRIT IN CAMPUS RALLIES
A Pep Committee has recently been formed on the campus. It has a two-fold purpose—to stimu­late active interest in the rallies and demonstrations on the campus and to' obtain a much more co­ordinated spirit among the stu­dents.The committee is composed of one representative from each of the fraternity houses and from each of the men’s dormitories. The first meeting was held in the Union, No­vember 12, and the following or­ganizations were represented: Acacia, Alpha Sigma Phi, Alpha Tau Omega, Beta Sigma Rho, Delta Mu, Delta Phi Delta, Delta Upsilon, Kappa Sigma, Kappa Sigma Rho, Pi Kappa Alpha, Sigma Phi Epsilon, Sigma Nu, Menis Dormitory Coun­cil, Mellon Hall, Laurel Hall, Lin­den Hall and the Student Council.There has been every indication that such a committee is needed, and from the large turnout at the (Continued on Page 3)
NO ROTOGRAVURE TOBE ISSUED NEXT WEEK
There will be no Rotogravure section with next week’s Tartan. These picture sections are furnished to college papers all over the coun­try, and since many of the colleges 
are not issuing a paper during Thanksgiving week no Rotogravure section will be . printed. This sec­tion will be continued as usual after Thanksgiving week.
Address of Welcome by Doctor 
Baker Marks Opening of Second 
International Coal Conference
Conference Chairman
THOMAS S. BAKER
Soph Hop Plans Complete; 
Date Set For November 23
Speakers Represent Twelve 
Nations; Other Countries 
Have Delegates
VISIT IS PLANNED TOCLAIRTON COKE PLANT
Conference Culminates Year’s Work of Dr. Baker, Including Trip Abroad
Original Leviathan Orchestra to Play For Frolic At Webster Hall
Plans for the annual Soph Hop to 
be held Friday, November 23, in the 
Webster Hall ballroom, have been 
completed by the committee under 
the direction • of Bernie Zeiher.. The 
dance was originally scheduled for 
last Friday, November 16, but a* it was desired by the social committee to have the Freshman All-Carnegie Dance precede the Soph Hop, the change was necessary.The orchestra selected for., the dance is the original Leviathan or­chestra, led by Nelson Maple and consisting of .11 pieces. Judging from the ,reputation this orchestra has, the committee feels fortunate in secur­ing it for this dance.Tickets for the dance are now on sale. They may be secured from any of the committee members. These members are selected from each school. They include Grace Borger- ding and Sally Hall from Alargaret Morrison; John Boyle and Jack Von- f e 1 d from Engineering; George Nease and Edward O’Flynn from In­dustries ; and Stewart Montgomeiy and Dahlen Ritchey from Arts. This committee has functioned under the direction of Bernie Zeiher.Attendance at the Hop is limited to upperclassmen alone. Freshmen are thus not privileged to attend. The chaperons selected for the dance arc Mr. and Mrs. Kirkpatrick, Mr. and Mrs. Work, and Mr. and Mrs. S. Crandall. The price of the dance $3 per couple.
Aeronautical Dept.Gets New Equipment
Mr. Blaisdell, head’ of the Aero­
nautical department, will leave for Dayton, Ohio within the next week to select some new equipment and 
instruments for this -department. He will also attend the aeronautical Exposition in Chicago which opens on December 7; the International aviation conference which will be held in Washington, D. C. during the week of December 14, in the interest of collecting information which will aid him in directing the equipment of Carnegie’s department.The department at present has (Continued on Page 4)
“Modern and efficient methods of making power from coal are saving millions of itons of this commodity and are therefore extending the life of our deposits of fuel,” said Presi­dent Baker in his address of wel­come, yesterday morning to the dele- ' gates attending the Second Internar tional Conference on Bituminous Coal. “We know,” he continued, “that the introduction of the by­product coke oven has created a long series of industries which are pro­ducing every day a vast amount vof wealth. And we may believe that wc arc just at the thrcshhold of an era of new discoveries, some of which will be presented at this Congress, by which still more riches can be obtained.”
“Coal,” President Baker declared, "is not only of the deepest theore­tical significance but in our industrial age it is also the most useful of raw materials which man has been en­dowed. The study of coal,” he add- ¡ed, “has as its object the unlocking of the riches that lie hidden in this substance. Every step forward that is taken by the fuel technologist gives it an increased value. It may reveal a method of securing more work from a given unit. It may dif close a new and useful elcmei which can be salvaged. It is a fo of conservation _ of our natural iff sources which will benefit generations to come.
“This conference may reveal to the coal mine owner that his product may be used, even. more sparingly in the production of power; but it should do much more than this. It should have a positive value in that it should point out to him the neces­sity of forming a partnership’ with the skill and knowledge of the scien­tist, in order that he may find new / uses for his commodity. It shoul.d show him that the same sort of abil­ity that has narrowed his markets can discover the means of enlarging them.”
Dr. Baker pointed out that the more efficient use of coal and its by-products will tend to check the tendency to centralize industry in the 
urban districts. “The processing of coal will produce great quantities of gas, which formerly was wasted, but which in the future may be piped to distant cities, so that some day the gas that Is burned in New York may come from the coke ovens of Pennsylvania. The processing of coal will also produce great quanti-/ ties of tar, which will be distilled) probably near the mines and the various stages of refining will create new enterprises out of what are now only laboratory experiments. Futher- more, the gasscs from the coke ovens will be treated in various ways to produce commodities which can be used for fertilizing purposes. Chem­ical industries are likely to draw more and more closely towards the coal fields. We can hardly conceive of conditions arising, under which localities were coal is situated, will not grow in importance. The new er .chemistry will bring about new industrial developments many of which will take place in the regions found. Whatever may happen to other parts of our country we can prophecy will, enjoy an ever increas­ing activity and probably an expand­ing prosperity.”
T. P. Gaylord, president of the Chamber of Commerce of Pittsburgh, (Continued on Page 3)
Rockwell Kent Preserves Tradition
That Critics Must Always Disagree
Disagreement about every phase of life, both intellectual and ma­terial, is rampant. Men have al­
ways argued about science, poli­tics, literature. Mr. Cortissoz, art critic, and Mr. Kent, artist, are no exceptions. They disagree violent­ly, for instance, about the value ct paintings in the International. Their points of view are diametri­cally opposite. If each saw a bunch of carrots, one would want to cook them to suit his taste, the other would prefer to devour them raw to discover the original 
flavor.Now the place of the critic him­self is open to doubt. Words­worth said that if the quantity of time consumed in writing critiques on the works of others were given to original composition, it would 
be much befter employed. Arnold, on the other hand, thought that a man not capable of being a creator may make an excellent critic and that times unfavorable for crea­
tion may yet produce fine critics.
Well, if critics do not know where they stand, what is to be' hoped 
from artists, judges and. pictures? ,Mr. Cortissoz approves a paint*» ing if the artist has, in Mr. Cor-, tissoz’s eyes, seen things beauti- iully. "Seeing beautifully” is the- basis upon which he judges all pic­tures. He does make allowance for design, for color, for execu­tion, but lie desires above all that he be able to distinguish imagina­tive forces that please him, and that he be able to assure himself that the artist has “seen beautiful­ly.” Judging by his condemnation 
of Pruna’s “Blanche,” one sees that he dislikes clear, vigorous outlines, 
patent reality, prosaic scenes. He disapproves modernistic tendencies, evidenced by his unfavorable opin­ion of Coleman’s “Greenwich Vil­lage.”
Mr. Kent, on the othec hand, piefers the clearly outlined, vigor­
ously handled picture to the wishy-,, washy, indistinct, sentimental type 
(Continued on Page 2)

---------------------------------------------------

THE CARNEGIE TARTANTUESDAY. NOVEMBER 20. 192S
ALUMNI NEWS
Contributions Have Started 
. For Carnegie Dollar Day
. Instructor Contributes To Fund, Sends Dollar From Poland For Dollar Day
Contributions _or the Carnegie 'Dollar Day Fund to be turned over 'to the Endowment Fund Committee have been coming in slowly but .surely. Wc expect to liave a big rush ricxt week..- This campaign for ’dollars is not confined to alumni .'only,—the students arc going to take .part in it, and persons who1 never ’attended Carnegie Tech but who are interested in its welfare are sending ,in their dollars. One dollar was re­ceived the other day from Frank Ey- ">nan, known to many alumni as ^'Fuzzy.” Mr. Eyman was an in­structor in the Physical Education department at Carnegie Tech for a number of years,, and is now en­gaged in simila/ work in Poland. His letter follows:"Enclosed please find a check for $1.00 as my part in the Dol- » lar Day, November 27.- I am not an alumnus but feel• like one; and I do not believe that ... my check can be refused becauseI am not properly listed.How anxious I am to get the- news of the games. I receive the Paris edition of the New York Herald but not always is Carnegie listed in the wins or. losses. WishI might be with you this Saturday. 1 The Pitt games were always those which brought the greatest interest 
j to me.: Next Saturday will begin, here• in Krakow, the first national bas- i kctball and volleyball champion- : ships. This will . be confined to « Y. M. C. A. teams only. Expect ) the Krakow team to get a licking,Wc have been under a strict rc- < gime as to rules of qualification ’ and those of eligibility. The other ¦ associations do not have to observe i such strict rules and the results is ! that the teams representing them I will be the strongest the respective ; cities can get together. j With every regard and best wish• to you all, believe me.Most sincerely yours,Frank A. Eyman.” i Last year, at the time of the first •Carnegie Dollar Day the klans made jit a point to have their members 'contribute, and the results were very -satisfactory. You: will1 want your organization well represented, so get (•together and send in your dollars.J This is an opportunity which any doyal alumnus' will not let pass by. fft should be a pleasure to him to. Jscnd in his dollar and help swell sthe total. Make checks payable to *.h$| Alumni Federation, and send \em in at once, or slip a dollar bill i an envelope and be sure to en­close your name with it, so that we Jran add it to our Dollar Day list.; Somd of those who have contri- Jiuted already are:J Josephine Whitney, M’22.I Margaret Harrison Napier, M’14.1
 Agnes L. Sharp, M’16.Mary Wight, M’ll.’ Jean Roy, M’28.Marion Burns, M’ll.Mr. Blackball, Faculty.E. F. Sullivan, Leader of the Band. Thomas Shea, E’16.T. N. Griggs, E’16.Anna B. Smith Hart, First dean oI M. M. School.Joseph S.'Hubbard, E'21.Dave Garber, A.Prank Eyman, former faculty member,John 1.. Porter, Chairman of Com­mittee: on Inst, of Tcch.C. C. Leeds, faculty.Irene Voskamp, M’12.Eighteen members of the! S. A.' E. .Fraternity contributed last year, after the fund had been turned ovdr to the committee, and' that amount is to be included in 'this year’s contribu­tion.Remember that over 600' contru-' iiutcd last year'and that three tim.es" ‘ that many: are expcct’cd to do so. this year.
CLAN NEWS
Connecticut Clan
A very successful meeting of the Connecticut Clan Was held in the Lobster Shop, Hartford, Conn., on Monday night, October 22. Aboiit twenty members were“ present. The event opened up at 8 o’clock with a short meeting. Future meetings, high school scholarships, high school athletes as possible material for Carnegie Tcch teams; Clan dues, and the Carnegie Tech-Georgc- 
town game at Albany, were a few of the matters discussed'. It was decided to have reserved, if possi­ble, a block of tickets (about 25) for the 'Connecticut Clan, at the Albany game. This matter has, since the meeting, been taken up with the Alumni Office and it is hoped, as planned, that those mem­bers of the Connecticut Clan de­
siring tickets, may obtain same through the Alumni Office. Mov­ing pictures of the 1926 football team in action were shown, in ad­dition to tw oreels of nature pic­
tures and slides obtained from the Alumni Office. College songs( and making merry concluded the eve­ning. It. was judged the best mefit- ine the Connecticut Clan has ever 
had.The officers for the year now in progress arc: President, Wm. F.Gallagher (1-24) 74 Orange street, Hartford, Conn.; Vice President, Arthur Nelson, 85 Rowe avenue, 
Hartford, Conn.; Secretary-Trcas- urcr, Samuel Lebon, 48 Village street, Hartford, Conn.Next meeting of the Clan on Monday, November 26. Detective Sargent Edward Languish of the Hartford Police Department, will tell Us ‘of the methods used in trac­ing, approaching and capturing criminals. ,Chief Moran of the Hartford Fire Department \yi]l take the Clan on an inspection visit of the operation of the fire alarm system.Cleveland Clan
The members _ of the Cleveland Clan, met at a dinner ,and business meeting on October 21. The din­ner was very much enjoyed and a very pleasant evening was had by the twenty members that attended. After dinner, the election of offi­cers for this year took place with the following result's:President, C. A. Emery, 1292 Cove avenue, Lakewood; Vice President, M. R. Walton, 12497 Cedar road; 
Secretary, John J., .Carr, 1888 Page avenue; Treasurer, A. C. May, 11736 Clifton boulevard, Lakewood.A. disctission of the coming year with plans for_ social events fol­lowed the election of officers. M. R. Walton, newly elected Vice President, discussed his recent trip to Germany. His talk was very interesting.
Southern California Clan
A letter was received from Bessie Finkelhor, Secretary of the South­ern California Clan. She sent a copy of the letter which Was sent to all members of the, clan inviting them to an informal dinner-dance Saturday, November 24. The clan will also hold weekly luncheons from this time on. In order to learn tile time and place of these luncheons members . of the clan should get in touch with Mis^ Finkelhor. Her letter as received: Alumni Federation Carnegie Institute of Technology Southern California Carnegie Clan, 
Los Angeles Dear Carnegians:When you heard of the W. and J. victory did you wish you were back on the campus to ¡add your lusty cheers for Dear Old Tech-? A'nd 'wh‘pn the, team laid low the Pitt Panther agaih, did you say to yourself, "Oh Boy! If I’d only been thqrc!'1 Haven’t you stored up .a barrel or two of good old 'school spirit in the last few weeks that you’d like to open up?Ydur opportunity awaits you. " Saturday,, ‘November 24th, at,
Personnel Association 
Holds Three Meetings
The Pittsburgh Personnel Asso­ciation of which Mr. John D, Beatty is Secretary has been fea­turing an educational program this year.
The past meetings have been along lines directly applicable to Industry,' On November 8, under the Industrial Training Section; the matter of "Safety Education” was 
discussed. The speakers were men who should be familiar with the facts. Those, who >poke, were C. B. Anel, Employee Senior Man­ager, Westinghouse Electric and Mfg. Co., East Pittsburgh; Earl Blank, Safety and Welfare, Jones and Laughlin, Pittsburgh, Pa.; J. A. Oartel, Chief of Safety Bureau, Carnegie Steel Co.
Under the relation with Educa­tional Instruction Section, ‘‘Em­ployee Training” was the’ topic. Mr. H. E. Moulter, Employment 
Manager, Crucible Steel Co. of America; Richard Bull, Supt. Pitts­burgh Railways Co.; H. H. Toight, Employee Manager, Pittsburgh Valve, Foundry and Construction Co.; T. J. Trouse, Supt. of Build­ings and Construction, Union.Switch and Signal Co., Swissvale, consti­tuted the speakers.
Under the Employment Section, “Women in Industry” was the. sub­ject handled. The speaker was . F. R. Phillips, ’ Vice-president, Du- quesne Light and Equitable Gas Company.Dr. Ihrig, Director Carnegie In­stitute of Technology Night School and Dean of Freshman, spoke over Station WCAE, on "Carnegie Insti­tute of Technology’s Contribution to the Community.”The last meeting was held on November 15. This' was held at Faculty Club, University of Pitts­burgh. David R. Craijj spoke on “The Selection of Junior Execu­tives.” George E. Whitewill dis­cussed the matter of, "Setting up Requirements a n d Methods of Selection.”Mr. Beatty urges all members to keep in mind future meetings. He asks also that each member bring a friend.
On
eight • o’clock, the Clan will meet
THEATRE TIPS
THE STRAND 
' A brilliant cast will ' be seen, in "Thanks iot1 the Buggy Ride” 'the hilarious comedy c6ming to the 5trand, Wednesday, Thursday.
Ricardo Cortez will be seen in “The Grain of Dust,” will hold the tcreen at the Strand Friday.Saturday, Hoot Gibson will be seen In "Clearing the Trail,” a thrilling Westerner will be on view at; the btrand Saturda}\Monday, Tuesday, "Freedom of the Press,” with a 'great cast including Ian Keith, Lewis Stone and other' notables are seen in the cast coming lo the Strand Monday and Tuesday.
THE MANORThe spookiest crook mystery ever Hlmed "The Terror,” with May Mc- hvoy, Louise Fazenda, Alec B. Francis, Edward Everett Horton, and others, will be shown at the Manor, November 21 and 22.Broadway night life is depicted in 'Take Me Home,” Bebe Daniels’ ftt'e'st starring vehicle, coming to the Manor November 23.Saturday afternoon, Jack Holt will >e seen in "The Vanishing Pioneer," i western thriller, and Saturday eve- ting the merry farce, "Good Morn­
ing Judge,” , starring Reginald Denny will be the feature attraction.Lon Chancy in "While the . City Sleeps” will' be at the' Manor Mon­day and Tuesday.
THE SCHENLEY
Wednesday and Thursday, William Haines will be seen in his latest pro­duction “Excess Baggage” at the Schenley "The Terror,” as a stage play, has held the imagination of London for over three years, and now Warner Brothers have made it into a screen play, which in grue­someness, shivers, shocks and laugh­ter' far exceeds the original. Show­ing of "The Terror” at the Schen­ley theater, Friday and Saturday.Richard Barthelmess lias an’ ex­ceptional cast supporting him in “Out of the Ruins,” one of his greatest since “Patent Leather Kid.*’ Will be showing at the Schenley, Monday and Tuesday.
THE GRAND
The Paramount screen version of Anne Nichols' "Abie’s Irish Rose,” which has ben equipped with Qual­
ity sound, is a masterpiece of in­terest, beauty and originality.
The lecture for today
is on life insurance.
It consists of two words: —
John Hancock
Class ‘Dismissed!
HOMA SKDOETKIA 6RCFTK-j
or SOPHO-W EBPPBTRAPLHHP
ROCKWELL KENT
PRESERVES TRADITIONS
(Continued fremi Page 1)
of study. He demands what "see­ing beautifully” means, and also, who is to judge what "beauty” is. Ostensibly giving no opinion, he nevertheless demonstrated that Pruna and Coleman, for instance, were infinitely better, in his view, than sentimental, pretty, nice things 
done by conventional artists.What is the "average man” to do? Shall lie listen to Mr. Cor­tissoz:, or shall he believe Mr. Kent? Fortunately for his peace of mind, there is a solution. Con­solation is to be found in Mr. Kent’s dictum that a picture: can be classified as to whether or not the individual likes it. He Jidvises that one be more independent1 in his views, and that he say only: "That appeals to'me,” or, "I. dis­
like that.”
at: the Palomai' Tennis-Club for an informal Supper Dance—assessment $1.75 per person. Floyd Fisher, Duke Neville and others say It’s the best placc in this section to .'put on a real pa.rtyi and they promise us a great time. But that’s not all!As an added special attraction, Col. Foster. Gaptaiii of our first football team; ' who- Dew back to .Pittsburgh for the ’ Pitt-Carnegie game, 'will 'be on hand- to give us all the thrilling details.Fellow-Clanites—come on out— bring your friends,' wives, sweet­hearts and any other -relative you 
have handy. As ah alumnus • of "the best of. all the schools” : be there to give a short speller for that far away team that is adding glory to Carnegie’s name.In the meantime, remember the Friday' luncheons at th'c City Club.Skibo-ly yours,
Bessie Finkelhor, Secretary.Directions: Pico Boulevard to.Fox Studio—:turn left on Motor 'avenue—continue one'good mile. In case of trouble, call the Club— EMpire 7527.
Fir»t Church of Christ
SCIENTIST 
CLYDE ST., PITTSBURGH 
SUNDAY SERVICES 11 A. M. 8 P. M.Sunday School 11 A. M.
Wednesday evening services S to 9
R. L. Duffus, Writer and Journalist, Speaks 
Of Carnegie In His “American Renaissance
Is America to have a Renaissance I piaces—out of mills, factories, fill- in art Or will it sink into a new ing stations, garages; and, other Dark Age? | milieus that arc vulgar,' shirt-
R. L. . Duffus, writer and jour­nalist, had suoh a question in his mind before lie toured the coun­try in search of material for ’ his new book, "The American Renais- aiice.” ’ The interesting record of 1VL “more or less random pilgrim­
age” docs not, however, attempt Lo answer the question of whethcr- there is or is not to be an Ameri­can Renaissance’ in art. His boolw is a report of the present status of art education in some of the sections of the country. His opinions are those of a layman. He makes it clear, in a foreward, that he is "guiltless” either of painting or of teaching others to paint.” The chapters, he points out, represent a - layman’s point of 
view. "But,” he adds, “they would not have come into being at all had there not been a conviction in the mind of the '.author and in the minds of those who have en­couraged and abetted this enter­prise that the layman has rights, both in art and in education. He is, in fact, the most important as be sometimes seems to be the most neglected element in the situ­ation.” !
Mr. Duffus’ book is of interest for all who are concerned with art and art education,' but to Pitts­burghers the findings of his investi­gations are of peculiar interest be­cause of the numerous references to Pittsburgh, the Carnegie In­stitute and the Carnegie Institute 
of Technology.
In suggesting that America isapproaching a crisis "which will dccidc whether wc shall have' our Renaissance or sink into a new Dark Age,” Mr. Duffus observesthat "certain straws of evidence do point* toward* at least a quanti­tative gain for the .arts.” The registration in all art schools and all art classes of which he has any knowledge has increased great­ly since the end of the World war. In most cases the ratio ofgrowth has exceeded that in col­lege and university registrationsat: a wdiole. Furthermore, the ap­plied if not the fine arts are mani­festly offering careers which "even the he-man and- the go-getter” do not altogether despise. "Her/:again, of course,” the author sug­gests, ‘‘one .must ask whether these newcomers are true ' converts or whether they will merely vulgarize fhc arts.” 'Mr. Duffus gathered Pittsburgh 
“copy” for his book in a visit here about 18 months ago. His chap­ters discussing the status of art .in Pittsburgh and in particular, witji réference to the Carnegie Institute 
and the College of Fine Arts of thé Institute of Technology reveal an insight and an appreciation that are all the more significant, when it is considered that the ’ author is dealing, largely, in comparative 
velues.“If for no more than, the line dramatic contrasts in its history and surroundings;” he writes, “one would not• want to pass by the College of Fine Arts at the Car­negie institute of Technology. Pitts­burgh is as vibrant and pictur­esque as any city in America. But 
these' qualities arc incidental to the- making and marketing of steel. And steel, though it may furnish subjects or even material for art­
ists, has yet to be aesthetically digested. That will come, but in the meantime artists do not, as a rule', work in steel mills, nor go 
into the steel business. Pittsburgh has been heroic but hard, mag­nificent but materialistic. In short, it has been a great deal like the rest of ..industrial America. Could art come out of such an environ­ment? With ' the encouragement furnished by an endowed school it could and did. And it is at least a plausible theory that in any case the distinctive American art of the 
future will emerge from unexpected
sleeved and gusto. Art requires gusto; there it may find it.”
The Carnegie school, Mr. Duffus observes, is attempting to do in the arts what the traditional col­lege does in literature, history, mathematics and science. But it 
“turns things around. It'tacks the traditional subjects on to the arts instead of the reverse.” “The stu­dents,” lie adds, "arc not allowed 
to graduate in complete ignorance tlie nature and history of the civilizatipn of which the fine and applied arts are but a, subdivision. To be able to give the date of Na­
poleon’s birth is not half so im­portant to them as an ability to put life into a painting, or to walk upon the stage in such a manner that the audience instantly knows that they have sunk their own per­
sonalities in those of the charac­ters they are portraying.”
Carnegie’s peculiar stamp, as Mr. Duffus sees- it is a “quality of re­sourcefulness a n d adaptability.” “The Carnegie graduate,” he re­ports, “expects to earn his living by his art. This means that lie must begin by convincing some employer that he will be worth, in dollars and cents, more than the total he receives in wa^es and wastes in material. He might do this more readily at first if he were carved to fit into an existing job. But the Carnegie Institute believes that in the long run the graduate in arts will be better off if his technique is elementary than if his imagination has atrophied. Its stu­dents are supposed to carry ideas and ideals into practical life, not merely to accept those already ex­isting. This may slow them down 
at the commencement of their ca­reers. It is likely to speed them up after they have attained a proper mixture of experience and enthusiasm.
“The enthusiasm is as valuable as the experience, and much rarer. It is perhaps Carnegie’s greatest achievement to send its graduates into the world with their ardor undiminished by too stringent a technical education.”
Severe ''technical tests,” Mr. 
Duffus observes, exclude students who are palpably hot fitted for an aitistic. career; equally severe 
achievement and progress . tests eliminate those who can not keep up to the productive mark. There 
is ho subh thing as “getting'b^y”— a student must show marked, ability or be dropped! “An art school,” Mr. Duffus reports President Titomas S. Baker as saying, “can not justify itself unless it has 
as its main purpose the training of creative artists.” Carnegie, for all its collegiate atmosphere, Mr. Duffus believes, lives largely by that motto.
• Interesting comparisons between 
Pittsburgh and Cleveland are con­tained in a chapter that Mr. Duffus has callcd , "Dusting Off the Mu­seums.”
“Pittsburgh, it is not necessary 
to repeat,” he writes, "is far from being an arty city. Its inhabitants do not go about carrying lilies 
in their hands. Yet the same com­bination of private generosity and public responsiveness which has 
made the Carnegie Institute’s Col­lege of v Fine Arts distinctive has also, created a great museum of art.”
Mr. Duffus devotes several pages 
also to tli£ Department pf Drama of the Carnegie Institute of Tech­
nology.
- THE LADDER !
WILLIAM J. SHEICK
William J. Shcick, talented young architect of this ci^y, added further laurels to his accomplishments when during the .past summer he de­signed a modern wayside inn for Robert, James and Louise, children of Mr. and Mrs. Robert Stoughton of ’ near Jannerstown, Somerset, county. The work was entered in a national contest sponsored by the New York Art Center’ and just rccentl3r Mr. Scheick was in­formed that it won second placc, with a $150 cash awardv
Green Gable Tavern is the name of the inn, located near Jennertown on the Johnstown-Somersct high­way, and it is considered the sec­ond best creation of its type in the United States. First prize was 
won by the Beehive Tavern, Hoo- sich, N. Y.
Mr. Sheick graduated from Car­negie Institute of Technology in 1928 with a B.A. degree in Archi­tecture. His accomplishments were outstanding while a student. He received a prize for one of his pieces of work in his Senior year. This prize was won in National Competition. He was very active in. Carnegie affairs. He was a member of the Alpha Sigma Phi; social fraternity. Moreover, he re­ceived the call to several honor­ary fraternities. ¦ His career seems destined with great success.
KENNETH E. GIBSON
The Bell •Telephone Company of Pennsylvania recently announced the appointment of Kenneth E. Gibson as sales manager of the McKeesport District, reporting to J. S. Tinlev, district manager, Mc­Keesport, Pa.
Mr. Gibson is a graduate of the Peabody High. School of Pitts­burgh.. He then took up his further work at Carnegie Institute of Technology taking the Commercial Engineering Course. He received his B.S,- degree in 1926. After 
graduation he entered the employ of the Telephone Company as a commercial representative, and at the time of his promotion he was employed in the office of the gen­eral sales supervisor of the West­ern . Area* •
MISS KEENER
Miss Keener,' who is known in musical circles as the ’ youngest and daintiest of the coloratura so­pranos of the Metropolitan Opera Company, recently sang iii a broad­cast production over the National Broadcasting Company system.-Her voice was a new; one to radio lis­teners and queries -began to conic in about the young soprano.
Miss Keener is now under con­tract to the National Broadcast­ing and Concert Bureau and will make a scries of personal appear­ances throughout the country this fall. For her concert she designs her own costumcs and arrange: her own setting.
Miss Keener was born in Pitts­burgh and was educated at Car­negie Institute of Technology.
Tuxedo and 
Full Dress 
Suits to Hire
Student Rates 
$3.00
Ed. Schwerin
MEN’S TAILOR 
335 Fifth Avenue
60G State Theater Bldg.
A Business Advantage
The young man or woman Avho can claim a banking connection with a well-es­tablished financial concern, will find it a very definite advantage in .his business life. There is no better time to make such a con­nection than now.
While you are in college, 
open an account at the Mel­
lon National Bank. You may 
he assured of our personal 
interest in your financial af­
fairs, and our willingness 
to help you with any prob­
lem that may arise.
Mellon Na
Pitt Ejonal Bank
ih. Pa.
ftCähßeii Compunti Theatres
SCHENLEY
STAGE ATTRACTIONS 
Changed Twice a Week
AVEDNKSDA.Y-THURSDAY
WILLIAM HAINES
in “EXCESS BAGGAGE”
in
FRIDAY-SATURDAY
MAY McAVOY 
LOUISE FAZENDA
“THE TERROR”
MONDAY-TUESDAY
Richard Barthelmess
—IN—
“OUT OF THE RUINS”
STRAND
WEDNESDAY-THURSDAY
“THANKS FOR THE 
BUGGY RIDE”
FRIDAY
RICARDO CORTEZ
in ‘THE GRAIN OF DUST’
SATURDAY
HOOT GIBSON
in “Clearing the Trail”
MONDAY-TDESDAY
Lewis Stone — Ian Keith
—IN—
‘Freedom of the Press’
MANOR
WEDNESDAY-THUHSDAY
MAY McAVOY 
LOUISE FAZENDA
in “THE TERROR”
FRIDAY
BEBE DANIELS
in “TAKE ME HOME”
SATURDAY
REGINALD DENNY
in “Good Morning, Judge”
MONDAY-TUESDAY
LON CHANEY
in “While the City Sleeps”
One of the best helps to the stu­dent is a dependable fountain pen. The Singer Pen & Gift Shop in Jenkins Arcade will sell you a pen 
with “exchange” privileges so you can be sure that your hand is “fitted.” They also repair old pens of all makes. Mention this article for special consideration.Singer Pen & Gift Shop.
Alumni From New York 
Can Come In Special 
•To N. Y. U. Game Nov. 24
Of special 'importance to those Carnegie , Alumni and supporters that live in the New York City district and wish to attend the Carncgic-Ncw York University game November 24.Wc have also been advised by N. Y. University authorities that th%y arc going' to have a special train leaving New York on Friday night, November 23, and can ar­range for any Carnegie Alumnus who wish to go to the game with a rotind trip passage including a lower or upper berth for $23.02 and $24:82 respectively. This in­cludes railroad and Pullman pas­sage. Lower berths will be ap­
plied as applications arc received. Compartments and drawing rooms will not be available and in order to sccurc .the above rates it will be necessary to. get 300 people to go. They do not feci that this will be difficult. All Carnegie Alumni interested should get in touch with Ben Ross, 32 Wash­ington place, New York City, tele­phone Spring 9300, giving address and telephone number. Money need not be given until the day before the game. Mr. Ross -will get in touch with_ all applicants who should mention that they arc from Carnegie and will endeavor to have all of the Carnegie men in one car so that they will be together on the trip.
As the game assumes great im­portance due to the strength of the two teams, it should be very well attended and anyone intending lo come liqre for the game should make reservations as soon as pos­sible.
Let’s Go ToTECH
Barber Shop
FOR OUR HAIR CUTS 
CORNER FORBES & CRAIG 
STREETS
TARTAN AND PITT WEEKLY
(Continued from Page 1) 
to the Pitt campus, attempt to cach the Pitt amosphcrc and put Carnegie interpretation in the Pitt Weekly features and editorials. Of course, competition will play an important part in the situation, for 
naturally cach staff will try to outdo the other in form, style and subject matter. The plan is one that will necessarily arouse a great deal of enthusiasm in the student 
bodies.
Ed.y Man finds 
Tobacco "Like 
Old Fdiend”
U. S. Army Fort Robinson, Nebr.May 29,1928
Larus & Bro. Co.Richmond, Va.Gentlemen:Speaking of champion long-tim« members of the EDGEWORTH Club, say: —it isn’t how long you have smoked Edgeworth, it’s how well you have en­joyed the smoke.Why, I have walked out of many a store, especially when traveling, to stop at some one-horse town and buy Edgeworth. A jood pipe deserves Edgeworth, and Edgeworth mine gets. I would not insult it with any other.“The familiar blue cans are every­where,” and usually you find men of 'taste carrying them, which proves it is not the price that determines a good “smoky tobacco, but the care and method that produce it.I would rather go days without Edgeworth and at the end draw a deep inhale of that cool “smelly” aroma, satisfying to the last puff, than punish my throat and lungs and nostrils with inferior grades.Edgeworth is “The Smoke With a Personality,” like an old friend, you learn to know and understand, and when troubled or when you have a “thinky” problem—you seek its sol­ace ana companionship.Very truly yours,(signed) E. H. FulmerEdgeworth
Extra High Grade
Smoking Tobacco
Paint — HardwareElectric Supplies
Oakland Hardware Co.
Mayflower 0923Iroquois Block
YALE * HARVARD • PRINCETON^DARTMOUTH ^¿CORNELL .• PENNSYLVANIA 
COLUMBI A.;,SYRACUSE ; BROWN;„S W ARTHMORE J4TUFTS \ KNOX ALABAMA 
LELAND STANFORD/.CALIFORNIA ^COLORADO • DENVER*“ MICHIGAN • pELAWARE 
GEORGETO WN^FLORID A ‘IDAHO ;tGE 
ILLINOIS •INDIAN ATv PURDUE *' BUTL1
TEXAS ^TENNESSEE ’..UTAH \VERMON 
BOWDOIN,:
KYTULANE^ Y 
WESLEYAN 
LEHIGH ;L 
STEVENS 2:* 
WÄSHINGT; 
DETROIX 
M
RE 'IGRINNELL " DE 
LOYOLA• A Mb
3IPPI ' MISSOURI; NC 
¡TE ; riCKINSON • PH 
ISAS^VARIZONA 
WYOM
tßycHppointnmt
This SHiÈGriDENTinES 
~cJlidhentiC'+‘ College Hall apparel
College Hall
4-Button Fly Front
OVERCOETS
35
Rich-looking authentic coats for the col­lege man, beautifully tailored with self- 
1 collar, in a fine selection of new tans, browns, and grays. Sizes from 34 to 42.
College Motor Coats 
Also $35
Double breasted, smartly lined coats, in tweeds and herringbones, with fine body lines, deep satin yokes, slash 
pockets and belt all around.
Gimbels—MEN’S CLOTHING—Fifth Floor.
H WESTERN 
ANDERBILT 
r * RUTGERS 
E • KANSAS 
FORDHAM 
O’ OBERLIN 
BUCKNELL 
[ARQUETTE 
DA 
AER 
)T A 
\ND 
TON 
NCE 
ASH 
ELL 
J V A 
NEE 
NIA 
MA 
VRE 
RN 
ILT 
ERi 
3 A3 
AM 
LIN 
ELL 
TTE 
‘iD A 
AER 
)T A 
‘iND 
'ON 
NCE
. 6X,NoS9X P G,S9SGU P YNBG201YG1,9 P 083TY2 
,7SoG P Xoo1a219U rn7XUoN, P 7NYGN9 P 7B6e91oo
GIMBELS
Smithfield Street at Sixth Avenue

---------------------------------------------------

{TUESDAY, NOVEMBER 20, 1928.THE CARNEGIE TARTAN3tübe Carnegie flMalb
A SECTION OF THE TARTAN 
DEVOTED TO THE 
NIGHT STUDENTS
THE OFFICIAL 
NIGHT STUDENTS 
PAGE.
Night Student Council 
Dance November 30th
Next Issue Of Puppet
On Sale This Tuesday
CAMPUS WEEKCarnegie Day Scheduled 
For Next Tuesday, Nov. 27
All Night Students Arc Urged to Contribute a Donation
As you all know Carnegie Day is scheduled for Tuesday the 27th. Every one councctcd with the school 
is asked to contribute a dollar for the Endowment Fund.
I* or every dollar raised between now and 19-15, the Carnegie Founda­tion Fund will give $2.00. This plan wdl assure Carnegie a position out in front of the other schools as long as education remains so important to mere man.
The night students are urged to give their bit towards this fund since they derive as^ much, if not more, benefit from' Carnegie than anyone else.
In the last issue there appeared an editorial in which the students were asked to give their opinion in con­
nection with this year's Campus Week festivities.. Last year'- this tradition was more less curtailed, thereby causing considerable disap­pointment to some, while others- Were in accord with the new arrangement.
In years gone by, night men were eligible to go to this affair- provided the number of tic!:« ts allotted was sufficient to go around. Many of us availed oursch ¿s of this oppor­tunity and enjoyed .one of the finest functions ever sponsored by Car­negie.
Last year,, however, the Mardi Grass was eliminated from. Campus Week activities and it was sadly, missed. The average fellow going to night school can arrange to at­tend those affairs that are held in the evening and consequently, the Coronation Dance and Mardi Gras w^re the. principal attractions as far as wc were concerned.
•Would it not be satisfactory to in­clude the night students in this year’s Campus Week plans and obtain from both night and day students an ex­pression of opinion as to whether or not the}f want these affairs revived? Should those in charge desire to carry out a plan involving a ballot, the Plaid will do all possible to ob­tain a representative night school opinion.
Day Students to Handle Distribu­tion Until Next Month,the night men have a chance to strut their stuff. Sure wc will be there and even hope to do some of this new fangled dancing, it has been so long since the last dance that quite a lew of the ladies’ shoes will be worn otrt. You know this dancing proposition bccomes expensive when you have to buy new shoes after each affair for the girl friend. What price, awkwardness. There, that > a good title for a book and wc won’t charge a .cent for the suggestion. No foolin’, though there will be a good time for those who will come to claim it at the Union the night after Thanksgiving.'Hear the Engineers arc going to have their annual blowout pretty soon. Always had a good time at every one of these affairs that had time to attend pud you can bet your boots that he will be there if nothing turns- up.. However, here’s wishing j-ou luck boys, .Mid may you have one record breaking crowd.Hope that the, night men will be included in the C. W. affairs this year. Certainly would like to see tlrj, Mardi Gras revived as‘ that meant as good a time as any in the wliolc year. What say boys, let’s get together and cc if we can’t help it along some.Well, suppose thosewho were for­tunate enough Jo get out to South Bend will have plenty to. tell when they get back now that it is all in our favor. K.
Well, by the, time this issue gets to picss the Puppet will be out and we arc sorry to say that wc 'mupt again depend upon the day students to sell this issue for us. So far we have two names of students who are will­ing to do this.. Wc had anticipated that at least ten out of 3,000- would be sufficiently interested in obtain­ing a Day activity award to enable us to become closer,, associated with thc^ Pup.
There is still one more month yet, and, if at the end of that, time, more students do not show the proper in­terest we will be forced to reject Puppet's offer ‘with thanks. Now this docs not seem to be a very suitable manner ¡¡. which to recipro­cate the Pup’s offer a"hd it inay.be a long time, before another such op­portunity presents itself.Let’s go now and show our spirit of co-operation by sending in names of those who arc willinn to sell. As stated before, the work will not in­terfere with your classes or .studies and you will be surprised when you are informed as to the reward. So send in your name at once to the Night Student Council or otic of your officers.
PEP COMMITTEE
STIRS UP SPIRIT
(Continued from Page 1)
recent Pep rallies the work of tha committee members seems to have produced good results already. Notices will be posted of future meetings of the committee.’udging by the • effects of the work of the committee tip to date there, is little doubt but that the Pep Committee will become a valu­able and fixed organization upon the Carnegie campus.PRES. BAKER PRESIDES AT COAL CONFERENCE LUNCH
Dr. Baker presided .it the Coal Lunchcon of the American Insti­tute of the City of New York which was , Ire Id in co-operation with the Coal 'Conference at the Carnegie Institute of Technology at the Hotel Commodore.At this affair Dr. F. Bergins, Dr. Cecil H. Lander and A. C. Fiddlier' were the principal speakers. These gentlemen arc on the program of the Coal Conference which is being held this week at Carnegie Insti­tute of Technology.Dr. Cecil H. Lander is director of Fuel Research in the Depart­ment of Scientific and Industrial Research in England. He is sched­uled to speak on the present state of.fuel technology in Great Britain.Dr. Fredrick Bergins, a promi­nent, German scientist, will discuss in ¡his address some of the broader aspects of fuel. technology.
A. I. E. E. PLANS SMOKER
(Continued from Page 1)
A committee consisting of a repre­sentative from cacli class was ap­pointed to arrange for the Electrical Engineering Smoker. This Smoker, which is under the auspiccs of the Electrical Engineering Department, is open to all electrical ..students. Dcccmbcr 12 has been set as the date for the Smoker. The com­mittee, in an endeavor, to’ get a big attendance, arc making efforts to have many of the alumni present.
The Climax Of 
Your Great Season
With
Dick Skidmore
and
His Pied Pipers
at
The Washington Arms
Washington Blvd.
SAT., NOV. 24
Cover Charge:Wed., Fri., 50c; Sat., 75c
West “State Boys” Pearson
Standard Makes of Tires
ASHBY & MINTEER TIRE SERVICE
VULCANIZING—COMPLETE TIRE SERVICE
6115 Broacl Street, East End Hiland 1460
13 ¥ Schubert Program
A • JL «¿¿L© by two-piano class, assisted by HelenPfordt Bigge and Margaret Wolf, sopranos.
Tuesday Eve., Nov. 20, at 8:30. No Cards Needed; Public Invited.
PITTSBURGH MUSICAL INSTITUTE, INC.
131-133 BELLEFIELD AVENUE. PITTSBURGH, PA.
Exceptional 
Savings in
Have you ever tried 
asking your friends?
Any man who wears John 
Wards will tell the same 
story.
The leathers in John 
Wards are choicer, wear 
better. The fit and work­
manship are more expert, 
k They liave more style ap- 
peal to men of the better 
\ class.
\ The priccs? $7 and $9.
view of the tip of Manhattan Island, New York City
THE SKY IS THE LIMIT!
BEFORE the elevator removed this limitation, 
five stories was the height limit of . buildings. 
Upper floors were undesirable—people didn’t 
enjoy the long, hard climb to roof-tree quarters. 
Today there is no restriction. Upper floors are pre­
ferred for their light, ventilation and splendid view. 
Elevators have made buildings of any height prac­
ticable. The only limit is in the construction of the 
building itself.
For more than 75 years Otis has led the way in Ver­
tical Transportation—changing the skylines of the 
nation.
1*.0*W .Sho.Wimcobjoujvtsd ' use, as.tat. err.
Stores in New York * Brooklyn 
Newark and Philadelphia 
On display at
J. R. Scheib & Bros
4514 Center Avenue Pittsburgh, Pa. j
Leadership in
Catering Values
As caterers our leadership 
has long been acknowl­
edged.
We cater affairs correctly 
and keep costs within a 
prescribed limit.
Two of many reasons for 
our continued leadership.
¿Menus and estimates 
submitted without obligation. 
Phone us for suggestions.
Weddings a Specialty
Extra Pants to Match 
Suits at $5.
You’ll recognize the fabrics 
and styling as characteristic 
of clothing that sells at far 
higher prices.
Fourth Floor.
A good shoe to 
ask for by name
HORSEGUARDSOTIS ELEVATOR COMPANY
Offices in All Principal Cities o f the World

---------------------------------------------------

4THE CARNEGIE TARTANTUESDAY, NOVEMBER 20, 1928.
Address By Dr. W. M. Holtz 
Given to Senior Class
Tlic class under Dr. Rittman 
taking Industrial Management will 
receive a series of Iccturcs on "The 
Human Factor In Management," 
starting last week and lasting up 
to and including, December 13. The speakers will be men who arc familiar with the problem from various angles and arc kind enough to bring tneir observations to the 
classroom.The first address wa:. delivered last Wednesday by Dr. \V. M. Holtz, Medical Director of the Philadelphia Company. The Phila­delphia Company is a public utili­ties concern which controls various companies engaged in street car, power, heating and lighting serv­ices.The address was entitled "Medi­cal Service In Industry." Hi§ talk depicted the organization of a medi­cal department and what service could be cxpectcd in accident or general welfare scrvicc, as well as l he arrangement of offices and selection of personnel. Dr. Holtz told the class of the co-operation between the medical and employ­ment departments in regard to physical examination. He painted for the class a brief picture of the First Aid education as carried out by commercial concerns and com­mercial method of creating a good attitude in the workers toward their company. He explained the advantages of such practices as mass insurance and gave the men an idea of what modern business does for its employes in a medical way.
The talk was excellently planned and was a great benefit to a class in industrial management. Carnegie is lucky to have men like Dr. Holtz to speak to ils classes and is grateful for it.
Carnegie Professor
Develops New Process
A new process for the making of wrought iron, the invention of Professor Aston, head of the Aiet- alurgy Department of Carnegie 
Tech, has recently been patented by the A. M. Byers Company of Pittsburgh. The Aston Process, as it is known, has been many years in preparation and was sponsored during that time by the present controllers. The Byers Company, it: has been said, is to erect a ten- million dollar plant to exploit their newly acquired patent.
Because of its welding advantages and lack of corrosion, wrought iron has been adapted for very wide use. For this reason, as its use increases in scope, the industry needs greater tonnage and lower production cost in the markets of the future. Then, also, in order t;o develop the product for special­ized service, it needs the same de­gree of technical knowledge and skill which has as well served the steel industry. These important requisites can scarcely be fulfilled by the hand or mechanical pudding operation which has come through the centuries with scarcely any progress,
The Aston Process, however, seems to fill these important needs more than any other meth'od yet devised. It makes large production much more possible, and so nearly parallels steel making that the op­erating costs are very closely in i line. The wrought iron produced l\v,this process satisfies the most , exacting scrutiny as to chemical composition, slag distribution, and physical properties.
Metallurgical BoardPublishes Reports
The Metallurgical Advisory Board In the Carnegie Institute of Tech­nology and the U. S. Bureau of Mines has published and now offers for distribution a series of reports on its recent experiments.Bulletin 36, by C. It. Herty, Jr., Physical Chemist of the Bureau of Mines, and G. R. Fcttcrcr, Re­
search Fellow of Carnegie Tech and Junior Metallurgist of the Bureau of Mines, is a discussion of the deoxidation with silicon and the formation of ferrous-silicate inclusions in steel. The bulletin contains twenty-seven illustrations.A study of the ’Dickinson method for the determination of non-mctal- lic inclusions in steel, by C. Hi Herty, -G. R. Fcttcrcr, and J. F. Eskel, Research Fellow at Carnegie Tech, is published in Bulletin 37; this is illustrated with four beauti­ful plates.
Bulletins 39 and 40; both present • reports of the' progress of the Metallurgical Board to Carnegie Institute of Technology and the U. S. Bureau of Mines. The first is by T. D. Lynch, Chairman; Edward Steidle, Secretary 1926-28; and J. D. Beatty, • Secretary 1928; while W. L. Affclder, Chairman; Edward Steidle; and John D. Beat­ty, Secretary 1928 arc joint authors of Bulletin 40. Both of these re­ports are to be distributed without charge.
NEW STUDENT
DIRECTORY ON SALE
(Continued from Page 1)
very useful for their rushing sea­son.
¦' Anyone wishing to sell student directories should sec Hob Wood either at the Tri-Pnblication Of­fice or at \hc Sigma Epsilon Fra­ternity house today as soon as possible,
C. I. T. Flying Club May 
Buy Travelair Plane Soon
The Carnegie Flying Club has 
been "on the market” for an air­
plane for its club activities since 
its formation at the beginning oi 
the school year. Two makes of 
planes have been considered, the 
Waco and the Travelair models.
Last Thursday afternoon, -the 
Travelair Company with ils rep­
resentative from Bettis Field ex­
tended an invitation to President 
Howard Will^off to make a thor­
ough inspection of the newest- 
Travelair model, Mr, Wilkoff was 
then treated to an unusual experi­
ence as a guest in a "stunt” flight 
made by Pilot Jack Warren Smith 
of the United States Air Mail 
Service, The flight was made tip of a succession of eight rapid loops which were. followed by tail spins and a short upside-down flight. At a considerable height, the pilot then sliut oil the engine com­pletely and demonstrated the planes ability to land gracefully from a “dead” motor. The tests showed that the plane would be highly suitable’ for the activities of the club and was enthusiastically 'en­dorsed by President WilkofT.In view of the demonstration a special meeting was held at Room 210, McGill, Hall, Monday night where Mr. Smith was present and. gave prices on the Travelair planes, lie informed the club • that if a purchase was made within ten days, the plane would be delivered im­mediately upon purchase. If a delayed purchase Was made, the delivery of the plane would prob­ably be delayed because the supply of planes on hand would be ex­hausted, and the Flying Club would temporarily delay its actions.
TAU BOA PI ANDTHETA TAU TO CALL
CONFERENCE DELEGATES FROM MANY COUNTRIES
(Continued from Page 1)
[at convenient points. An advan­tage .in such an engine would be ¡that it would make possible by the ¡railroads, low grade fuels which 
are not now usable, Kleinow is also detained in Germany, but his paper will be read by Dr. 'Fleisch­mann of the German General Elec­
tric Company.Dr. I. P. Goossens will deal with the subject of the transportation, in tank cars and in other ways, of I pulverized fuel. While , the art of burning powdered coal has prob- j ably been carried farthest by Americans, the Germans have ac­complished a great deal in the mat­ter of-transporting it. Coal dust is highly explosive and therefore re­quires the most careful precaution in dealing with it. The economic advantage of pulverizing low grade coal at the mine, and shipping it in tank cars or forcing it through pipe lines to great distances, are very obvious. If Dr. Goossens has overcome the hazards, he will have made a great contribution to the coal industry.Dr. Friedrich Bcrgius is probably
Germany
(Continued from Page 1) fall who are juniors. A case of this sort is unusual.The following men arc to he called today: Theta Tau, Robert B. Goch- ring, Oscar S. Weniger, H. Kenneth Sicfers, Arne Olson, William J. Mc­Gregor ; Tau Beta Pi: W. A. Con- well, B. R. Gilchrest, R. R. Lock­wood, H. J. W. Smith, W. G. Herr, H. D. Choate, Mills Crittenden, K. H. Johnson, H. Ii. Aldcn, C. F. 
Sucsscrott, the latter ,three of whom arc Juniors.
M.M. Senate Plans Annual Party in New “Rec” Hall
The Margaret .Morrison Senate is holding a party for the faculty and Students of the college No-' vcmber 2, at 4:30, in the new Rec­reation Hall on the fourth floor. Senate takes this opportunity of formally opening the “Rec” Hall.. Dean Breed and Dean Green will be there to welcome the students.Evcy year th6 Margaret Morrison Senate has an affair for all the Margaret Morrison students. It is the only big social event given for all the classes and is therefore the only opportunity for the freshmen, 
sophomores, juniors and seniors to meet as one group. The realt pur­pose of these annual pflairs is to have the students and faculty be­come acquainted with the Senate members and with each other.This year, however, the party will have a special significance, in that it is the first all-student affair to be held in the new Recreation 
Hall, Iiv order lo make the “R6c" Hall really fulfill its purpose, the Senate is providing a magazine rack to the maintenance of which each class will contribute. These magazines will include popular and scientific numbers such as the Lit­erary Digest, Vogue, and Scientific American.Frances Guy, a senior in t,hc Household Economical Department 
is chairman of the committee which has charge of plans' for the party. The faculty will put on a stunt, Students under the direction of Grace Borgcrding will give a 'take­off on the faculty. Music for dancing will be furnished by Ruth Jamison and Madeline -Ferguson.
RESULTS OF FRESHMEN INTELLIGENCE TESTS SHOW
(Continued from Page 1)
average or above in scholarship;2, that the chances are 3 to 1 that a man making a B grade will rate average or above in scholarship;3, that students in the C group will divide equally, above and be­low the average in scholarship; 4, that the chances arc 3 to 1 that a person making a D grade will rate below the average in scholarship; 5, that the chances arc 5 to 1 that ?. person making an E grade will rate below the average in scholar­ship, and 6, about 1 in 10 persons making an F rate a C in scholar­ship.
DR. KARL KRAUGH'As Director of the German Dye Trust, Dr. Krauch has developed an artificial motor fuel which is becoming popular in Germany. His methods of production of petroleum from coal arc the most practical of any yet devised.
the best known man; in the field of fuel technology. His father was a chemist and inventor. He was a student and teacher of chemistry 
and began his experiments on the liquefaction of coal about 15 years ago. -From a scientific standpoint his process is highly successful. From a practical point of view lie is only now beginning to enjoy the fruits'of his many years of study. He has raised great: sums of money and his contributed much of his own fortune for his experiments.’ His patents arc controlled in many countries by companies in which lie is a large shareholder. .His ad­dress at the First International Conference on Bituminous Coal at­tracted widespread attention. He is an original scientific thinker and a brilliant man of affairs. On this occasion he will not discuss the process by which his name is best known, but will deal with some of the broader aspects of fuel tech­nology. Recently lie has been ex­perimenting with wood as a source of food product.Dr. Ernest Torres is the rector of the Technical High School at Braunschweig, lie is a well known chemist who was connected for years with the German gas indus­try. I.atcr he became a teacher and director of research. There are many points in the coking of coal which arc obscure. Our knowl­edge is still somewhat empirical; we know that, certain coals coke rapidly while others arc unsatisfac­tory for this purpose, but we arc ignorant of the underlying princi­ples of the phenomenon of coking. Up to the beginning of the present century there were practically no by-product coke ovens in this coiin-. try. Metallurgical coke was pro­duced in the Beehive oven and no attempt was made to conserve in the process of combustion anything but the cokc; All the volatile mat­
ter passed out the top of the oven in the form of burning gases. This exceedingly wasteful method of producing coke is rapidly disap­pearing but it is estimated that in this country eleven million tons of
coal are still being treated in the old fashioned oven. In Europe the beehive oven is practically un­
known. Torres is one; of the best known authorities in the world on the theory of coking and inasmuch as the gas manufacturers are us­ing more and more by-product ovens for the manufacture of, their-! commodity, the paper of Torres will attract a large audience from this Industry as well as from the metallurgical industry.
Dr. Alfred Pott is regarded as the author of the plan to pipe the gas from the by-product cokc oven of the Ruhi to Berlin. His, paper will describe the methods that must be employed in the long distance transmission of gas. It is true that in this country natural gas. is piped To greater distances than from the Ruhr to Berlin, but the piping of artificial gas to long distances is 
still in its infancy in this country. His subjcct suggests the possibility of manufacturing’ gas in the coal fields, for example, in the Pitts­burgh district, and piping it to cities1 on the Atlantic seaboard, three or four or five hundred, miles distant. Pott will not- be present and his paper will )>e read -by one of the delegates from Germany.Dr. Fritz Hofmann is the head of the Silesian Institute for Coal Re­search which is loeated at Breslau. His name has been associated for a dozen or more years with syn­thetic rubber from coal. Should, a satisfactory method or producing rubber artificially be discovered, the effect on the industrial world would be startling. It would make such an undertaking as the million-acre plantation of the Firestone Com­pany in Liberia or the Ford. Com­pany in Brazil futile. However, 
there is but little possibility that Hofmann’s experiments are capa­ble of commerciitl application at present, but they are of extreme scientific importance and will give an opportunity to the representa­tives of the American- rubber in­dustry to inform themselves on a question of vital importance. It is understood that the I.G. is also working on artificial rubber,' prob­ably with the aid of Hofmann and the annauncemcnt by one of the important officials of the Dye Trust something over a year ago that its experiments had ‘been successful produced a great sensation. Later the statement was modified, but un­questionably in the past 18 months progress has been made. Hof­mann’s paper on rubber .from coal ought to be one of the most sig­nificant contributions of the Con­gress.Dr. Karl Glinz of the Technical University of Berlin is the leading German expert on coal cleaning. One of the chief impurities in coal is sulphur. It . is injurious to boil­ers and is the cause of great in­conveniences in the many chemical processes which arc based upon coal. Its removal is one of the es­sential elements in the manufacture of artificial gas. tDr. Carl Krauch, director of the German Dye Trust, is a chemist by profession. He began his career as assistant in chemistry in the laboratories of the University of Heidelberg. His work with the Dye Trust . has been concerned chiefly with the liquefaction of coal or lignite (the production of syn­thetic petroleum). It is due large­ly to his efforts that his company is -able at present to sell artificial motor spirits in Germany. Less than two years ago, it is under­stood, the I.G. acquired the rights to use the Bcrgius patents for the liquefaction of coal. It is assum­ed that under Dr. Krauch’s direc­tion this method has been • made practical and has been’ improved and changed in a number of ways. 
He will, describe the present stale of the art of turning coal into petroleum. Dr. Krauch will be in­troduced by Walter C. T eagle, president of the Standard Oil Company of New Jersey. The Standard Oil Company has enter­ed into an agreement with the I.G. for the use of the German patents and is building a research labora­tory for the study of coal in its relation to petroleum.
Dr. J. E. Nocggerath has de­veloped a method of dissociating the hydrogen and oxygen from the air. His proccss is valuable and economical when use can be made commercially of both gases. It is not practical if cither one of the gases cannot be utilized. Cheap hydrogen is required for the suc­cessful carrying out of many of the chemical processes which have re­cently been developed, while chcap oxygen will revolutionize steel making and the technique of burn­
ing coal to producc power. If low- cost oxygen could be turned into the blast furnace it would reduce the amount of coke that would be required. The same is true of the boilers of the central power station.
AERONAUTICAL DEPT.GETS NEW EQUIPMENT
(Continued from Page 1)
two planes, one large fully-equipped service plane, and another not yet completed. The former was do­nated to the school by Mr. Harry Frey, President of a local insurance 
company, while the latter is a gift of the Rodger's Flying Field. The officials of tl\ei Rodger's Field have also presented the department with a large amount of additional equip­ment.
Special Notice Students
Let’s Renew Old Friendship
Wc arc Ready at All Times to Solve Your Formal Problems. Rent a Tuxedo Suit and Accessories from us. 
LATEST STYLES ALL SIZES
Special Student Rates
Whittington Dress Suit Co.
6002-3-4 JENKINS ARCADE 
Day Phone Atlantic 9595 Night Phone Lafayette 4791-R
Get Acquainted
With our Travel Bureau and Steamship Agency depart­
ment, if contemplating a trip, it will be to your special 
interest to drop in and consult with us.
Hotel, Rail, and Steamship reservations, Letters of Credit, 
Foreign Drafts, Travelers Checks and, all ‘¦'necessary ar­
rangements will be attended to promptly.
Relieve yourself of all caVe and worry by permitting us 
to have the privilege of serving you in this connection. 
Do not forget to place your valuables in one of our safe 
deposit boxes.
Oakland Savings & Trust Co.
“THE OAKLAND BANK”
Member Federal Reserve System
Where Meyran Avenue Crosses Forbes Street
Dr. Franz Fischer’s name is gen­
erally associated with a method of 
liquefying coal. He . is a distin­
guished German chemist and al­though his method has not been applied industrially, there arc those who believe that it has greaterpromise for the future than that of, Bcrgius. He is the head of a great coal research laboratory that is maintained by the mine owners- of the Ruhr, who support research with the definite expectation that it/ will show them new and moreprofitable uses for the products of their mines. Fischer will not bepresent at the congrcss. The paper that lie will contribute will not deal with bis proccss but will treat afundamental question in fuel tech­nology, namely, the elimination of sulphur.
Rudolph Battig is the head of the company that produces fixed nitro­gen according to what is known as 
the Mont Ccnis Proccss. The I.G. is the greatest producer of this''Commodity in the world. Its proccss was developed in Germany during the war in order to supply a substitute for the Chilean ni­trate which could not be imported. It Jias been said that the Haber Proccss ofc fixing nitrogen from the air prolonged the war two years longer. After the hostilities, the great plants that had been em­ployed for the manufacture of the bases for explosives were turned to the manufacture of synthetic fer­tilizers. The tonnage of this out­put has grown by leaps and bounds and the new forms of fertilizers have had a marked influence upon the agricultural p/oductivity of Germany and its economic life, but the I. G. docs not enjoy a monop­oly of this commodity. The French­man Claude, and the Italian14 Casale have sccurcd patents on processes which arc widely used. The Mont Ccnis Process, s sonicwhat different from all others that we mentioned. This compa'ny has recently won a law suit in a ease which was brought against it by the I.G.. It has been claimed that the Mont Ccnis Process does not require such a large investment of capital as that employed by the other methods. It is regarded as spe cially adaptable for use in conncc lion with large coke oven plants where some of the gas is utilized. The Mont Ccnis Process has not been taken up by any of the Amer­ican companies so that the address of Director Battig will have a spe­cial interest.Dr. Fritz Frank, a professor at the Berlin Technical High school, will discuss, the chemistry of the tars that are derived from lignite..Dr. M. Dolcli is an authority on combustion and fuel for power plants. His work is typical of 
much that is being done to reduce the amount of coal that is required to producc electricity. This sort of work is responsible for the pheno­menon that, while in this country the amount of power that is .pro­duced is. doubled every five 3rears, the amount of coal that is required to create this increasing power re­mains almost stationary.Dr. Carl Otto is the inventor of one of the best known by-product coke ovens. In the United Stales the Koppcrs oven is widely liscd, but in Germany the Otto oven is popular. Otto will not be present.Dr. I. P; Kcrschbaum will deal with the low temperature distilla­tion of lignite. This form of low grade fuel is receiving a great deal of attention in Germany and is the basis of 'much of the chemical products which arc now being turn­ed tout in that country. The United
States and Canada possess great stores of lignite which are being utilized in only a very limited dc-, grcc, because soft coal with us is cheaper than in any other country in the world. Some day, - however, our lignite fields will be exploited as is being done in other countries.Dr. F. Zur Ncddcn is an cngi- nccd who "has spent considerable time in the United States. His paper is one of the few that will deal with 
the economic aspects of coal. His position as secretary of one of the most important committees of the German National Coal Board quali­fies him admirably to describe what is taking placc in' Germany in the application of scientific methods to the mining and utilization of coal.Dr. Karl Buntc is regarded as one of the great authorities on gas in the world. On this occasion, however, his paper will be of spe­cial interest to representatives of the great central power stations and those who have to do with by­product coke-ovens, but as more and more of the gas tliat is utilized in the cities conics from the by­product cokc oven Buntc is likely to attract, a large number of hear­ers from the. gas industry.Joseph Plassmann will describe
Russia
France lacks petroleum, but soft 
coal is one/ of her greatest natural 
rcsourccs. The main problem, then, is to use the products oi; her mines in order to minimize the demand for petroleum from abroad. Ques­tions of. compressed fuel, for do­mestic and commcrcial uses, occupy much attention in the various lab­oratories. Liquefaction of coal and various fuels also conic under ob­servation.Georges Claude will give a popu­lar discourse on his experiences as a scientist and an inventor. He is one of the most picturcsquc and original scientific men of France. His discoveries range all the way from the making of liquid air to the production of power by utiliz­ing the difference in the tempera­ture of sea water in the tropics at the surfacc and of water at a con­siderable depth. This latter inven­tion he is now applying in the in­stallation of a plant near Havana. The Claude proccss for the fixation of nitrogen is used in nearly all European countries as well as in the United States. It is his work in this connection that is of par­ticular interest at a coal congrcss. 0,nc of his discoveries which is now finding widespread recognition is the Claude-Neon Light.Jean Bing is the representative of the Society of Producers and Distillers of Tar in France. His paper will deal chiefly with the economics of this industry.Dr. A. Maiihe holds a- chair at the Sorbonnc which is maintained by the gas companies of Paris. He is one of the best known chemists in Francc and was associated for many years with Sebaticr in Toul­ouse. He has done important work on’ the subjcct of catalysts, but his present paper deals with low tem­perature tars. He will not attend the confercncc. The success or the failure of low temperature pro­cesses may be determined by. our. ability to utilize the tar by-product. We know comparatively little, on this subjcct. It differs chemically from- the high temperature tars
DR. GEORGE L. STADIKOFFDr. Stadikoff is one of the great­est living authorities on the forma­tion and composition of coal. He is one of the few Russian scientists that have achieved prominence out­side their own country.
his low temperature process which is considered oiic of the most promising in the long list that is now being studied. The chief ob­jective in low temperature distilla­tion is the securing of a form of cokc from the -lower- grade bitu­minous coals to take the place of high-grade anthracite., In other 
Words, the turning of chcap soft coal into high-priced hard coal. Plassmann claims to have solved this problem.Dr. P. Rosin is one of the great­est living authorities on pulverized coal. His studies of the theories, of its combustion arc of very great interest in America where pulver­ized coal is used on a larger scale than in any other country in the world. Next to low temperature carbonization the papers on pulver­ized . coal will rcccivc the most at­tention at the confcrencc.The French chemists arc inter­ested in problems of conservation.
which have been carefully studied 
nd which form the basis of a. 
long list of chcmical compounds that range from creosotc to per­fume. It is possible that the low tempcraure tars may be cqualjy valuable. If this is the ease the chances -of the low temperature processes being a success arc greatly--increased. A , contribution by one of the most eminent of liv­ing chemists to this subjcct should be of the highest scientific and economic importance.E. Audibcrt will not be present. His paper will be read by a mem­ber of the faculty of the Carnegie Institute of Technology. He has dond notable work in many fields of fuel »technology and is . regarded as the chief French expert in the modern methods of treating coal. His work on powdered coal is well known.- The French newspa­pers have announced from time to time during the past two years that he has solved the problem of turning the soft coal of his country into va­rious petroleum substitutes. This has been regarded in France as a na­tional, and almost patriotic, task. It is felt that if Francc can free herself from the domination of for­eign petroleum interests by_ using the products of her mines in her international combustion engines or for liquid fuel she will have accom­plished something that will have added immensely to her national . wealth. Audibert's paper this time will • deal with the synthesis- of methanol, a substitute from coal for wood alcohol. This product lias in recent years had a marked ef­fect for the decline of the Ameri­can wood alcohol industry. Audi­bcrt is the head of a fuel research laboratory which is located at Scn- lis, near Paris/Andre Kling and Daniel Florcn- tin will send over a paper treat, ing their method of liquefying coal. They arc both conncctcd with the municipal laboratory of the City of Paris, the former director and the latter as vice director. While their (Continued on Page 5)
Co.fodt and Pdotection
Regardlessof Weather
Every genuine Alligator carries the distinguishing mark of authentic style. Here is rainwear, in gay or con­servative colors and smart models, that is the accepted all-weather selection at the leadingcollegcsoftliecountry. Famous fabrics of feather­weight lightness and semi- transparency made absolutely waterproof by the exclusive Alligator proccss. Before selecting this essential part of your college wardrobe he certain to look at the new Alligator models. Alligators arc sold only at the best stores and retail from $7.50 to $25.00. Sec the new Alli­gator Aviation model at $10.00. The Alligator Company, St. Louis, Mo.
ALLIGATOR
THADE-MARK nilG. U. S. t
Book Store
For Sale at
Administration Bldg.
The sun never sets on Chesterfield's popularity !
Crlobe trotters”, we can imagine Dr. Freud as 
saying,'‘are people whose nurses dropped them 
onto an escalator in early childhood. They buy 
a sun helmet, a guide book, and a first-class 
passage to the Pyramids, and are never heard 
from again."
Nevertheless, the most confirmed voyagcter 
owns to a thrill at finding a carton of 
Chesterfields in a tiny cafe on the Left Bank,
or a package of the same on a card table at 
the Army Club at Simla, or on. meeting an Arab 
camel-boy whose only English is"Sooch popular 
mos’ be desarve!”
For Chesterfield’s popularity never saw a sun­
set; travel as far as you will, this cigarette will 
always be somewhere ahead, ready to bring 
good taste and good tobacco home to you.
Such popularity must be deserved—and it IS!
6VADgAEMiAks
MILD enough for anybody. . and yet. . THEY S ATI S FY
LIGGïTT Je WYIRS TOBACCO CO.

---------------------------------------------------

TUESDAY, NOVEMBER 20, 192S.THE CARNEGIE TARTAN5
CONFERENCE DELEGATES 
FROM MANY COUNTRIES
(Continued from page 4)
proccss has not been employed 
commercially it is of great interest 
scientifically and is regarded by 
some persons as showing greater 
promise of ultimate practical suc­cess than that of Bergius. It is dif­ficult for scientists who have de­veloped in their laboratories meth­ods of making synthetic petroleum to find capitalists to put into effect their discoveries because of the present low price of mineral oil. When natural petroleum begins to give evidence of becoming exhaust­ed with resulting high costs the methods of the chemist of turn­ing coal into oil will be seized upon eagerly. When this time comes it is not impossible that coal will be liquefied near the mines and sent to distant points by means of pipe lines.C. Simon has developed a meth­od of propelling motor buses and trucks by means of compressed gas stored in tubes. It is’said that this method is now being used on some of the motor buses in Paris. Simon’s chief contribution _ is the designing of a tube container suf­ficiently strong to resist the high pressure of, the gas. His paper Will be important for the automobile industry. If it can be shown that gas can be employed instead of gasoline for the propulsion of mo­tor vehicles another outlet for our surplus fuel may be revealed.Paul Weiss is a well known min­ing engineer and minc-owncr. His paper will be read by his son, Jaques Weiss. His method of low temperature distillation has produc­ed briquettes which find a ready 
sale in France and especially in Paris for domestic fuel. His com­pany has business connections in the United States and it is under­stood that a plant employing his process will be built in this coun- 
try.Paul Dumanois is a distinguished French chemist and engineer. He has done important work in con­nection with the designing and con­struction of submarines. More re­
cently lie has occupied himself with liquid fuel and is the ¡chief engineer of the government’s department of liquid fuels. At the Conference of 1926 he contributed a paper on al­cohol from coal as a motor fuel. This year he will present a study of the oxidation of hydrocarbons, a question of great scientific and technical interest.Professor Paul Lcbcau is a chem­ist of distinction. He has done im­portant work in the distillation of coal' in a vacuum. His work has been largely theoretical, but his re­sults are of great importance to •Practical men. He is unable to
WE REPAIR RUBBERS
TECH SHOE REPAIR
420 S. CRAIG STREET 
Shot Shining - Hat Cleaning
FRANK BROTHERS
fifth Avenue Bool Shop
BetweenH?ib ond Streets. New Yoik
Pittsburgh Shop 
Jenkins Arcade
leave his teaching work to come to the Congress.
J. V. Winkler is associated with' Weiss, mentioned above, and is the head of the research department of one of the great coal companies of France.
A. Lcautc will describe a proccss that has been before the French public for some time and on which large sums of money have, been expended for its development.
• England will be well represented at the Coal Conference. Many of her chief chemists will be in Pitts­burgh, while some who arc unable to attend have sent papers to be read- The English chemists arc working on various aspects of the coal industry. They have been in­terested in new developments in the search for a smokeless fuel, and a liquid fuel from coal, which are the two main objectives in- British coal research, since coal consumers demand a clcan product, and economical methods of distil­lation must be found.R. H. Crozier' will discuss his method from the point of view of4 meeting the British needs of pe­troleum. Low temperature tar when cracked yields a considerable percentage of motor spirits. Brit­ish scientists are just as eager as the French to free themselves from the need of importing from foreign countries petroleum. In case of another war .England would be at a great advantage if she possessed a satisfactory method of turning her coal into oil because a modern battle is fought just as much with liquid fuels as with explosives. On this account the British authorities have acquired certain rights in the Bergius proccss. This purchase was regarded as a war measure rather than a means of aiding an industry. The processes of "Bcr- gius,. the I. G., Ivling, and Fischer, transform all the coal that is em­ployed into petroleum products. The motor spirits that are obtained by low temperature distillation arc merely one of the by-products of the proccss, but the wholesale adoption^ of low temperature dis­tillation in England, or rather Great Britain, would contribute not a lit­tle to the British requirements in petroleum.
Edgar C. Evans will present a paper of special interest to the iron and steel industry which- consumes a considerable percentage of all the coal that is mined in this country. The greatest coke ovens have been built by the steel manufacturers. Coke ovens of the Carnegie Steel Company treat thirty thousand tons of coal per day and generate as one of their by-products one and onc:half times as much gas as is consumed in the City of London. Fuel technology and metallurgy 
are therefore . closely associated. Evans will describe what is being done in England under the auspices of the National Federation of Iron and Steel Manufacturers to apply the most modern methods of treat­ing coal for the rrtaking of steel.R. Lessing, is one of the out­standing chemists and fuel tech­nologists of his country. His paper at th'c meeting of 1926 attracted wide-spread attention. This year lie will not be able to come to the United States. His subject has to do with one of the methods of cleaning coal. Many of the ques­tions that will be discussed at the conference arc of more interest to chemists than to coal mine owners, but no subject is occupying the at­tention of operators to the extent of the methods of cleaning coal. All the great soft coal tompanics
University Restaurant
OPEN DAY AND NIG^-IT 
Home Cooking 
460S Forbes St., Near Craig
Loading Bore Holes
DETAIL OF WlSmO............
______________Diagram of wiring for tunnel blast with power current
Lesson No. J of
BLASTERS’ HANDBOOK
A
FTER the holes are bored for a shot, these precau- 
. tions are to be observed:
There must be no air pockets; if cordeau is used, care must 
be taken that it does not break or kink; certain types of 
explosives must be carefully tamped, or the slowly devel­
oped gases may blow the tamping out entirely; sprung 
holes must be allowed to cool sufficiently to avoid prema­
ture explosions; well-drilled holes require especially careful 
loading; the loading of large quantities of explosives in 
tunnel, gopher or coyote holes is an art in itself.
There’s a great deal more than meets the eye in this as in 
other operations incidental to the use of explosives, as ex­
plained and illustrated in the BLASTERS’ HANDBOOK. 
This text-book, used by leading technical institutions, takes 
up where purely theoretical books leave off, with the les­
sons written out of the experience of explosives users. Gives 
you what you would otherwise have to spend years to learn. 
Saves mistakes, corrects wrong impressions, eliminates 
guesswork.
Worth a great deal; costs you nothing. The 
coupon will bring you a copy.
REG. U. S. PAT. OFF. (IXE-243)
E. I. du Pont dc Nemours & Co., Inc.,
Explosives Department, Wilmington, Delaware 
Without cost or obligation on my part, please send me a copy of “The Blasters’ Handbook."
Cl tv__State—........ .
are building or have in operation plants costing hundreds of thou­sands of dollars for this purpose. The coal purchasing public is be­
coming more and more exacting in its requirements of the operat­ors. The coal must, be washed or prepared in some other way before it is marketed. There is a great lack of unanimity as to the best method of securing this result. Lessing is the greatest English authority on" this subject.Dr. E. W. Smith is a well known fuel technologist whose swork has been chiefly in connection with tlic riianufacturc of gas and by-product 
coke ovens.Lord Mclchctt (Sir Alfred Mond) will deal with the large economic questions in connection with coal. As the chairman of Imperial Chem­ical Industries, Ltd., lie is the head of the greatest chemical company of Great Britain. Recently, it is said, his company has been making large purchases of coal lands. He was raised to the peerage last summer. As a member of the Brit­ish Government he has occupied himself with the economic rehabili­tation of Great Britain and has given much attentior to labor ques-
England
DR. C. H. LAUDERDr. Lauder is the head of one of the largest fuel research labora­tories in the world, located at Greenwich, England. He is a re­
search man of distinction and no doubt is better informed than any­one in England on the subject of the economics and scientific treat­ment of coal.
tions. He has recently been in the United States ensraired in the consolidation of Mond Nickel Com- panj' with the International Nickel Company. It was. expected that he would be able to remain for the conference but he was compelled to return to London. His paper will be read by Grant B. Shipley, chairman and president of the 
American Mond Nickel Company.Col. W. -A. Bristow is a repre­sentative of one of the many Brit­ish companies that arc engaged in developing a low tompcraturc dis­tillation proccss. This proccss will receive more attention at the Coal Congress than any other topic.
,Dr. C. H. Lander is the head of the largest (probably) fuel research station in the world. It is located at Greenwich, England, where im­portant tests on all sorts of fuel are carried out. He will speak on the present state of fuel technology in Great Britain. He is, a research man of distinction and probably,no 
one in England has as wide a knowledge of the economics and the scientific treatment of coal.. Professor J. Ivon. Graham will present a contribution to the broad question of turning coal into a liquid fuel. An essential clement in this proccss is the addition of hydrogen, usually at high tempera­ture, and under high pressure and with or without a catalyst. Natu­rally the _ cost of obtain'ng the hydrogen is a prime factor in the success _ or failure of. any method of making synthetic petroleum, or alcohol from coal.
Charles Turner has developed a •G.arboriization proccss in England which is highly recommended. In Great Britain the smoke problem is serious. Low temperature distilla­tion has been studied as a method of supplying a smokeless fuel. In this respect the product 'is a suc­cess,-but a period of stabilization will be necessary before the eco­nomic value of the' new processes can be determined. Markets must be found for the by-products—the gas, the tar, and the motor spirits that will be distilled from the tar. Everi after low temperature distil­lation has passed the technical ex­perimental stage there will remain an _ economic experimental stage which must be gone through with before any of the processes can be pronounced ^unqualifiedly successful. This is not only true with respect to England but also the United States and all other countries.
F. S. Sinnatt is the assistant to Dr. Lander, the director of the British Fuel Research Board, and is one of the soundest of the younger school of fuel technolo­gists. He has done much work in connection with the various low temperature processes which have been tested at the gpyernment re­search station at Greenwich. lie was also the expert which did much of the testing of the Bergius pro­cess preparatory ; to the purchase by the British'Government of the rights in England.
From Russia will comc important research results concerning coal formation, which is essential in utilization. Scientifip phases of fuel technology will ' also be pre­sented. Japan, which has little coal deposits, is interested chiefly in economical methods. Belgium will be represented by A. France, who will talk on coal washing, and F. Pallmacrts, who is working on the problem of utilizing gas for the production of artificial fertilizer. Delegates from Denmark, Austria, and the United States will also present papers.
T. Ban will be the only repre­sentative from his country connect­ed with a very important coal re­search laboratory. The amount of coal that is , to be found in Japan is negligible. On this account the
Dr. S. Parkes Cadman To
Speak At Y.M.&Y.W.H.A. |
Dr. S. Parkes Cadman will lec­ture tonight at the Young Men’s and Women’s Hebrew Association on “Origin and Mission of the Re­public.” His talk is' the second in the series of lectures given at the 
“Y.”Dr. Cadman is pastor of Central Congregational Church of Brook­lyn, New York. He is president and directing head of the federated 
council of churches of America, a position that carries numerous ciuties and highest responsibilities. 
He is also a noted author.The lecture will begin at 8:30.
work of the Japanese scientists has to do chiefly with methods of sc­ouring the greatest possible value 
from fuel.A. France will give an important paper on coal washing. ; The chief authority on this subject in Eng­land ¡¿"Lessing, and.the chief Ger­man authority, Glinz. France is a distinguished engineer whose pro­cess' has been employed, not only in his own country, but all over the world.F. A. F. Pallmaerts is a bril­liant young chemist, part of whose studies were made at the Univer­sity of Oxford. He will describe the method of producing synthetic ammonia that is employed by one of the great Belgian companies. His proccss differs from that re­ferred to above which is carried on by the German Mont Cenis Company. It is, however, another system' of utilizing some of tile gas, much of which is wasted in this country, for the production of artificial fertilizer.Dr. Bartel Granigg is the one 
representative from Austria. Since the war, or rather the treaty of Versailles, Austria possesses no bituminous coal. She has great deposits of lignite and her scien­tists and engineers arc giving much attention to this form of fuel. Granigg, who is one of the out­standing specialists in this . field, will speak on the comparative eco­nomic merits of hydro-electric 
power and power from coal. At the present time an acrimonious discussion of this subjcct is being carried on in Austria. Shortly after the war a far reaching project for the electrification of the Austrian railroads^ was entered upon. It is now claimcd that this plan is not only premature but economically unsound, as power can be secured more economically from coal than from the building of expensive hy- dro-elcctric plants. In this coun­try, about thirty' per cent of all the. soft coal that is mined is purchas­ed by the railways.Since 1920 there has been a re­duction of twenty-five per cent of the coal that is used per ton mile. As the railroads are the chief cus­tomers of the coal producers it is important to know whether the tendency towards economizing fuel will continue; furthermore, the in­creasing use of clcctric po\Vcr on the railways is a matter of great moment to the, coal producers. The paper^ by Granigg will show what is being done in Austria in this connection. A number of import­ant papers will be presented deal­ing with the railways as consumers of fuel.
¿MrvC. J. Jefferson of the United Shipping Board and Commander J. J. Broshek of the United States Navy will present their method of using powdered coal aboard ships. Their experiments, have been car­ried on chiefly aboard the Shipping Board Ship “Mercer.” The subject is of_ immense importance to the coal industry. If it is possible to use pulverized fuel in marine boil­ers, without the hazard of explo­sion soft coal may regain some of the market .that is now held by petroleum. It is claimcd that tlic stoking of marine boilers with pow­dered coal is no more expensive than the stoking with oil and as this is the chicf reason for the. change that has taken place in re­cent years from coal burning boil­ers to oil burners the results of the Jcffcrson-Broshek. tests will be watched by coal experts with great attention.^ Not only are tests being made with _ bituminous coal, but also pulverized low temperature coke has been tried. It is claimed that the latter is less explosive. The question under discussion is far from having been decidcd, but it is a new and very important phase of the increasing usetof pul­verized fuel.
F. G. Tryon is the chicf autlior- ity-, on coal statistics in the United States. His paper will indicate the present tendencies in coal consump­tion. It will show that although the production of power is growing by leaps and bounds the consump­tion of coal is almost stationary. This paper will be of special in­terest to coal men. It should show them what they may expect in the future as a result of the present tendencies in coal consumption.T. P. Gaylord, the president of the Pittsburgh Chamber of Com­merce, is vice president of the 
Westinghouse Electric & Manufac­turing Company.
- Professor L. K. Ramzin of Mos­cow will not be present. His paper will probably be: read iby his fel­low-countryman, Stadnikoff. The 
Russians have not kept abreast of the times in the technique of coal utilization, but they are doing im­portant work on the purely scien­tific phases of fuel technology.Dr. George L. Stadnikoff is one of the greatest living authorities on how coal was formed and on its composition. In spite of the conditions in Russia he has been carrying on important scientific work. In recent years only a few Russian scholars have made them­selves heard outside their country. His coming to this country to take part in^otir congress, is therefore of spccfal importance. The com­position of coal is still something of a mystery and, the more we learn on this subjcct the better we shall know how to utilize our fuel.Harald Nielsen is a Danish en­gineer whose name has become as­sociated with the “L & N” (the Long & Nielsen) proccss of low temperature distillation, one of the most_ talked of systems in Great Britain.
Professor P. E. Raaschou is one of the most distinguished fuel tech­nologists of the world, and an out­standing Danish chemist
Mr. C. F. Drake Speaks 
On Water Purification
W. P. M'CRACKEN TOSPEAK AT CARNEGIE DAY
C. F. Drake, Superintendent of the Pittsburgh Filtration Plant, spoke on "Water Purification and Typhoid Reduction in Pittsburgh," at the Civil Seminar last Wednes­
day.Mr. Drake, starting with water purification in its first existence, 4,000 years ago, traced the dif- rcrcnt high points in its history up',to the present day. A filtration plant for Pittsburgh was proposed by Mr. Lannitig in 1S47. Though the water was declared unfit for public use in 1S67 and the fact was also made known in 1S93 that Pittsburgh had more deaths from typhoid in the past 20 years than any other U. S. city, the first plant was not put into operation until 1908.The year 190S marked a turning point in Pittsburgh’s health record as the city jumped from a position of first in the number of typhoid deaths to a position very near the lowest, thereby proving the neces­sity of water filtration. Previous to the year 1908 a public subscrip­tion was taken in Pittsburgh and the proceeds were used to build a small filtration plant and drinking fountain at Craig street and Fifth avenue. It seems that this project created a great public interest and aided much in the passing of the necessary legislation for bonds.After his lecture Mr. Drake showed a very interesting group of slides which by charts showed very conclusively the advantages of water filtration. Mr. Drake stated that the water purification could make Pittsburgh entirely free from typhoid, but that the city would continue to have typhoid as long as its' residents continued to go into the country and smaller citics to drink water.
Printing News
At the Educational Night of the Baltimore Club of Printing House Craftsman held last Tuesday eve­ning, November 13, in the Hotel Emerson at Baltimore, Professor David Gustafson, head of the 
Printing Department of Carnegie Tech, was the principal speaker. Mr. Gustafson’s address was on “The Importance of Printing in American Life Today.” Following his talk, the decision of the judges of the letter head contest which was held in the Ottman Mergen- thalcr School of Printing was then read and the winner, Mr. Howard E. Winter, Vice President of the Baltimore Club of.Printing House Craftsman awarded the prize.Short talks were given on the “Advantages of Vocational Train­ing as Applied to the Printing In­dustry,” by I. Ii. Blanchard, Oscar T. Wright, Otto T. Wright, Walter McCann and John Clyde Oswald.Many prominent guests were present at this meeting. Some of the foremost among them were Hon. Albert C. Ritchie, Governor of Maryland; Hon. William F. Brocning, Mayor of Baltimore, Mr. John R. Dcniorcst, Vicc President of the United Typothetca of Amer­
ica and Mr. Walter L. McCain, edi­tor of “Printing.” ’ The guests of honor for the evening were, the 
students and instructors of the Ott­man Mergenthalcr School of Print­ing. Two of the instructors arc former Carnegie Tech students: J. N. Galley from, the 1917 Industries 
class and T. R. Swcetland, who at­tended in 1921-22.
The meeting elosed with an ad­dress of Appreciation by T. Ver­non Thomas, a student of the school.* * *
The Senior class in English for Printers is preparing for the pro­duction of the 1929 issue of the Bagpipe, a Senior class project in the Printing Department.Every member of this class has been requested to write a term paper on some phase of the print­ing trade. The ten best papers from the group will be submitted for judgment to four of America’s leading printers. Mr. E. G. Grcss, Editor of the American Printer, is to be one of these judges. The six best term papers out of those judged will be published in this years Bagpipe. Hitherto these term papers have caused much favorable comment.
(Continued from Page 1)
ous classes and organizations have been designated by the Committee on Public Occasions.Students will form in the parade at these places:Band and R. O. T. C.—Road, front of Industries building.Executive Board—Director Jewett’s office.Faculty—First floor corridor, In­dustries building. Head at main en­trance.Alpha Tau—First floor corridor, Industries building,' rear of faculty.Scholarship Holders — Basement and corridor, Industries building.Seniors—First floor corridor, Indus­tries building, west end nearest Car­negie Library.Juniors—First floor corridor, In­dustries building, cast end nearest Carnegie Library.Sophomores—Second floor fcorridorj Industries building, west end nearest Carnegie Library.Freshmen—Second floor corridor, Industries building, cast cud nearest Langley Lab.
France
GEORGES CLAUDEM. Claude is one of the most picturesque and original scicntific men in France. His inventions range from a machine to produce power from varying temperatures of sea water to the Claude-Neon light which is becoming popular oij advertising signs.
STUDENT COUNCIL
APPROVES SCHOOLACTIVITY BUDGETS
(Continued from Page 1)
Soph Hop was approved.The Carnegie Flyiiig Club present­ed a revised constitution which was accepted as corrcctcd with the ex­ception of an itmcndmcnt to covcr the possibility of a smash-lip.In conclusion of the meeting the petition and constitution of Aclcas, a new Sophomore Women’s Honor­ary, was passed.
By Sara F. Wonders The Flonzaley Quartet will pre­
sent the following program in the Carnegie Music Hall, November 26:
Mozart-----------Quartet (D major)Schubert—Andante—Con Variazioni (.Death and the Maiden) Giadounow.Quartet (D major.Op.l)
RECITAL
By Students of the Department of Music, Sunday, Nov. 25, 1928, 8:15 P. M.
Little Theater—College of Fine Arts 
PROGRAM Beethoven*—Piano Sonata, Op. Sla (Lcs Adicux) 
Adagio-Allcgro Andante csprcssivo Vivacissimamentc
Julia BramsonMarccllo _____Two 'Cello Sonatas(G maj. and C maj.)(a) Andante—Allegro—Grave— 
Allegro(b) Adagio—Allegro—Largo— 
Allegro .Karl Forssmark Pugnani—Kreisler. Pracludium and AllegroKreisler. Tambourin Chinois
Katherine Rickcrt Schumann. Etudes Symphoniques, Op. 13Charles Shotts Moszkowski. Suite for Two, Violins and Piano, Op. 71 Allegro cncrgico Lento assai Molto vivacc Rose Aiello, Willibald Ryshanek, Celeste Prictsch 
Accompanists Lucillc Burrell, Charles Shotts Yesterday, lower intermediate grade students gave a recital in the Pittsburgh Musical Institute recital room. The players were Edgar Clark, Paul Goldstein, Lyndis Johnston, Ruth Edison, Elizabeth Mohlcr, Bobby Steigcrwalt, Rose Washington, Nancy Nicodcmus, Betty Ebcrlinc, Emma Wilds, Dor­
othy Nicdringhaus, Florence A. Kinlcy, Ruth Montgomery, Betty Schrack, William Provost, Delores Stcina£ke,Toinght at 8:30 there' will^ be a two-piano recital by the pupils of Mr. Octting’s class, in commemo­ration of the one hundredth an- inversary of the death of Franz Peter Schubert. The following 
pupils will take part: Mrs. D. V.Murdoch, John Kelso, Ethel Dec­ker, Beatrix Stevens, Gertrude Gocd- dcl Hcspenheidc, Adlyn Robinson,
Marica Comninos, Esther Zeiden- sclmeider, Mollie Nauhaus and Agnes Slionka. They will be as­sisted by Helen Pfordt Biggc, so­prano, and Margaret Wolf, so- piano.A junior recital will be given :,n the récitai room of the insti­tute this Saturday afternoon, No­vember 2*1, at 3:15. The partici­pants in the program will be Jose­phine Fclscr, Jean Hippie, Mar­garet Burtt, Joseph Bray, Jane Bell, Betty Jane Wills, Lillian Oklin, Aurelia Nadolski, Jean Smith, Irene Wilcox, John William K'.otz, Anna Ord, Emma Ullich sud Dorothy Richards.On Sunday afternoon at the North Avenue M. E. Sunday school, North avenue and Arch street, North Side, the Sunday School Orchestra of 45 players, un­der the direction of Charles N. Boyd, was heard in the first movement of Schubert’s “Unfin­ished Symphony” and the Scliube^ "March in C Major.”
ARTS BALL
COMMITTEE PLANS
(Continued from Page 1)
on design, and Clyde Stoody is chairman of construction.The secretary of the ball wishes to inform all alumni of the Arts School that they are cordially in- vit.cd to the Ball and that all those interested in the Ball should com- municatc with the secretary, Sidney Warner, care of the Dean’s Office, Art School, Carnegie Institute of Technology, Pittsburgh, Pa.
DANCING
At JACQUES SCHOOL
CRAIG & FORBES ST.
Beginners Monday anil Friday Eve­
nings. Advanced, Thursday and Satur­
day Evenings. Private Ichhojib by ap­
pointment. Mayflower 7891
ANNOUNCING
The Opening Of
THE TECH 
BEAISTY SHOP
In Conjunction With
TECH BARBER SHOP
Forbes and Craig Sts.
All Makes of Typewriters, New and Used 
Sold—Rented—Repaired
Fort Pitt Typewriter FOIW Inc.
Royal Portable Distributors—ATLANTIC 8320
New Main Store 
McCloy Bldg. Branch Store
624 LIBERTY AVE. 428 FOURTH AVE.
MANY SCIENTIFIC PROB­LEMS TO BE DISCUSSED
(Continued from Page 1)
it can be done, but whether or not 
it can be done profitably rests with the automobile industries.Another idea of paramount im­portance, especially to Pittsburgh, is smokeless fuel. Pittsburgh suf­fers probably more than any other city in the world from a sooty, 
grimy atmosphere and therefore must follow with great anticipa­tion the developments concerning a smokeless fuel.
Aside from the economic and scientific interest in the Coal Con­ference of 1928, there is a human interest. Some of the greatest 
scientists of the world will be gathered, together here in Pitts­
burgh; two thousand men repre­senting twenty nations will meet each day for one week to discuss matters of world importance right here on our own campus. This conference has brought to our own doorstep, so to speak, some of the 
greatest scientific geniuses of all times. One of the men most fa­miliar to us is E. E. Slosscn, who is attending the International Coal Conference for the second time, and who will deliver a free lecture tonight, November 20, at 8:15 p. in., in Carnegie Music Hall. This is a wonderful opportunity for 
those Carnegie students who can attend to hear something really worth while. There arc other mem­bers of the conference whose names have become familiar be­cause of their splendid research work.
The human brain is a wonderful organ. It starts working the mo­ment we get up in the morning and doesn’t stop until we get to class.—Selected.
Mould the man first, then the metal
C
ARNEGIE developed the pteel in­
dustry by first developing his men.
The Bell System is growing faster 
than ever before in its history and this 
growth, like the steel growth, is based 
on the development of men.
Today, in the telephone industry, 
men in supervisory positions must co­
ordinate many and varied factors. For 
example, before locating a new central
office, population trends are studied. 
While it is being built, telephone appa­
ratus is planned, made, delivered and 
installed on orderly schedule.
But more basic than all this, the 
executive shows leadership by his in­
sight into the human equation and by 
the sympathy and understanding with 
which he adapts individual to job, 
moulding his men first.
BELL SYSTEM
nation-wide system of 18,500,000 inter-eonnecting telephones
“OUR PIONEERING WORK HAS JUST BEGUN1

---------------------------------------------------

FRACTURED SKULLMoorchcad circlcd left end for six 
yards- and first down on Notre 
Dame’s 22 yard line. Downed by 
Bray. First down, 10 to go for 
Carnegie Tech. Karcis rammed 
ccnter for 4 yards, downed by Mul­
lins. Second down, 6 yards to go. 
Leahy replaced Twomcy of Notre 
Dame.' On next play Carnegie 
Tcch was offside and drew.5 yard 
penalty. Second down, 11 yards to 
go. A double pass, Harpstcr to 
Karcis, the latter held without gain 
by Bray. Third down, 11 yards to 
go. Flash -touchdown for Carnegie 
Tcch. A long, lateral' pass from 
Harpstcr to Lctzcltcr was good for 
23 yards and a touchdown for Car­
negie Tech. Letzelter had a clear 
field after catching the lateral pass. 
Kicked from placement for the ad­
ditional point4. Score, Carnegie 
Tech 27, Notre Dame 7.
Harpstcr kickcd off for Carnegie 
Tech. Kickcd to Mullins who re­
turned to own 35 yard line, where 
Dreshar downed him. First down. 
Correction: Mullins returned to
own ^8 yard line instead of own 
30 yard line. Morebito for Moore- 
head. Elder circlcd right end for 
50 yards and first down on Car­
negie Tech’s 12 yard line. Doan 
for Donoghuc of Notre Dame, Gc- 
bcrt for Brady’ of Notre Dame, 
Riley for Dew, of Notre Dame. 
Flanagan smeared Elder for a 7 
yard loss. Second down, 17 yards 
to go. A long pass from Elder 
was incomplete. Colrick could not 
reach same. Third down, 17 yards 
to go. O’Brien for Colrick of Notre 
Dame. A long pass from Elder to 
O’Brien placed the ball on the Car­
negie Tech one yard line, giving 
Notre Dame first down. Goal to 
line O’Brien was tacklcd by Harp­
stcr. Mullins was stopped with no 
gain by Schnupp. Second, down, 
goal to gain. Collins for Mullins, 
Notre Dame. Elder fumbled, but 
recovered for 3 varrl loss. Third 
down, 4 yards and goal to gain.
A pass from Elder was knockcd
ALL-AMERICANDANGEROUS FOE
¦JOHN NIEMIC 
.Notre Dame halfback
TED ROSENSZWEIG 
Carnegie ,Tech end
HOWARD HARPSTER 
Carnegie Tech captain and 
quarterback'AL LASSMAN 
New York university captain and 
tackla5 yards to go. Nicmic punt'cd to 
Harpstcr, who was downed by 
Nash on own 36 yard line. Time 
out for Notre Dame. First down, 
10 to go for Carnegie Tech, from 
own 36 yard line. Flanagan for 
Roscnzwcig of Carnegie Tech. Kar­
cis rammed center for 2 yards, 
downed by Law. Second down. 8 
yards' to go*, d
Moorehcad cut back into left
tackle and broke through for 15 
yards and first down on Notre
Dame’s 47 yard line. He was
downed by Nicmif. First' down, 
10 yards to go for Carnegie Tech. 
Time out for > Notre Dame. Can­
non replaced Lcpping, who was in­
jured. He was carried off the 
Jicld, appealing to have an injured 
hip. Nicmic was also injured 
and Bray replaced him. Harpstcr 
broke through right tackle to Notre 
Dame’s 20 yard line, where Bray
down. him. First down, 10 to go 
for Carnegie Tcch. Karcis hit 
center for 2 yards, downed by 
Nash. Second down, 8 yards to 
go. A long, Hat zone pass from 
Harpstcr was kifockcd down by 
Bray. Third down, 8 yards to go. 
Moorehcad fumbled when tacklcd 
and lineman kickcd the ball when 
attempting to pick it up and ball 
goihg out of bounds.; Notre Dame 
recovered ball on own 17-yard line. 
First. doWn, , 10 ' yards to go. A 
long pass from Bray into the right 
Hat zone was wild. Second down, 
10 to go. Short pass from Bray 
into right zone was wild. Colrick 
could not reach the' oval. Third 
down, 15 yards to go account of 
second incomplete pass. Bray punt­
ed to Harpstcr who returned 5 
yards to Notre Dame’s 43 yard line. 
First down, 10 yards to go for Car­
negie Tcch, Dew for Chcvigny of 
Notre Dame. Lctzcltcr out, back 
into right . tackle for one yard, 
downed by.. Law. Second down, 8 
yards to go. Karcis- rammed cen­
ter for 4 yards, downed by Mullins 
on next play. Notre- Dame line 
offside, .giving Carnegie Tech first 
down 011 Notre Dame’s 32 yard 
line. Karcis rammed ccnter for 2 
yards, downed by Nash. .Second 
down, S yards to go. Lctzcltcr cut 
back into center for 2 yards, down­
ed by Law. Third down, 6 to go.
Above is pictured final proof of the fact that the City of Pittsburgh 
is becoming “football minded.” The City Council, in designating the day 
of the annual Pitt-Carnegie football game “Pittsburgh Football Day,” 
made provisions for the awarding of the above trophy to the City 
Champions. It will be presented, at an early date, at a banquet in 
honor of the Carnegie team and will remain in the trophy room until 
Pitt can muster sufficient strength to down the Plaid and win the title.
OUT-OF-TOWN STUDENTS TO 
BE GUESTS AT Y. DINNER
On Thanksgiving day, at noon, in 
the Carnegie Inn, a dinner will be 
given for those out-of-town students 
who arc not going home, and who 
have 110 other arrangements for din­
ner for that day. This dinner will 
be given under the auspices of the 
Y. M. C. A., and Y. W. C. A.
The out-of-town students who do 
not live in dormitories may secure 
reservations for this dinner by sign­
ing for it in the “Y” office in the 
Administration Hall. Dormitory stu­
dents may sign on the slips provided 
in their respective dormitories.
The.dinner will be free of charge.
WOMEN’S ATHLETICS
wclcome.' Final announcements re­
garding this tournament will be 
made next week. The object of 
the tournament is to try for the 
championship of Margaret Morri­
son. Last year the championship 
was won by the Class of 1930.
SCHOLARSHIP AWARD
At a meeting of the Women’s
Athletic Association Board, held 
011 November 15, Ruth Buckwalter, 
a Sophomore in the Social Work 
Department of Margaret Morrison, 
was selected as the recipient of 
•tin: W. A. A. Scholarship. Ruth 
is the Sophomore representative 011 
the W. A. A. Board and a member 
of the Sophomores Honorary, 
Acleas. "Bucky,” as she is known
*.0 her friends, has an excellent
scholastic standing and has shown 
an active interest in Women’s Ath­
letics during her attendance at Car­
negie' Tcch. The Women’s Ath­
letic Association awards one schol­
arship every year.
BOWLING
Announcement has been- made 
that the names of the members
ot the various class bowling tcams< 
will be posted in the M. M. C. C. 
bulletin boards, at the end of this 
week. The captains of,these teams 
have been appointed by they man­
ager, Helen Whitchill. They arc: 
Seniors, Irene La Londe; Juniors, 
Francis Ludlow; Sophomores, Grace 
liorgcrding; Freshmen, Elizabeth 
Lily. There will be two teams sc- 
Iectcd for the Freshmen, Sopho­
more and Junior classes, and one 
for the Senior class. This will 
necessitate the Seniors playing 
twice, but it cannot be avoided as 
there are not enough Seniors to 
make two teams. There will be 
four girls on each team.
The last practice before the se­
lections are made will be held on 
Wednesday, November 21, at the 
Knights of Columbus Hall from 
2:30 to 6:00 o’clock. All girls arc 
urged to attend this practice, be­
cause their abscnce may result in 
a loss of a place on the team or 
the loss of W. A. A. points. , If 
it is impossible to attend this meet­
ing, get in touch with the man­
ager of the bowling teams.
The tournament will be held ,011 
Tuesday and Wednesday, Novem­
ber 27 and 28, at the Knights of 
Columbus Hall. Spectators will be
THE PARAMODE COMPANY
OF ST. LOUIS, MO.
SWIMMING
Swimming will soon take its 
place 011 the Women’s Athletic 
calendar. The season will start 
within the next two weeks and 
(Continued 011 page 7)Announces a New Fall Line of
COLLEGE SHIRTSNotre Dame. • A short pass from 
Nicmic was completed to Chcvigny, 
but failed to gain. • Second down, 
10 to go. Shaughncssy for Sweet 
of Carnegie Tech.
A pass from Nicmic to Colrick 
in right zone gained 5 yards. Lat­
ter downed by Karcis. Third down,
HOWARD HARPSTER, 624 Clyde St,
Carnegie Representative by Special Appointment
When a Feller Needs a FriendBy BRIGGS
NOT A COUtíH 
IH A CTAP-l.OAD 
HARRY, WHY ! 
DOM'T Yoü 
aAg wise
To THEr*\ ? I
E'TMGR HE. 
.SWEARS HE'LL 
START
tCRmiC’3 
OL-D <ScfU)S 
OR. HE STAY5 
OUT OP
GVA ciIgOEA
DRBHYP DRL
MiMgV ckTgA
he's RUINED 
8Y Cougmimc
\S HARRY
Yet or. 
TdTiK w h
$O3 .OO0-LPP
ÄKE, Give
HlfV\ AM
out) —INO
' "I' 'Mu,'"
¦'¦/.•.'//‘Il J RIISlUIWw.'
ASH Gold7he Smoother and better Cigarette 
not a cough in a carload
CP. L«rillird Co., Bit. 1760
THE CARNEGIE TARTANTUESDAY, NOVEMBER 20, 1928. J
Tartans Face Final Hurdle — Weary But Game

---------------------------------------------------

CARNEGIE WILL MISS THEMwith the majority of the large col­
leges and universities throughout the 
country. It is of a more wide-spread 
nature and entails a much larger 
schedule than, any other sport in the 
school.. New men should report to 
Captain Kasehagen in the Rifle 
Range under Margaret Morrison 
building any afternoon after 3:30. 
Instruction and practice will be given 
under a last year's team member.
No time is being.lost in getting 
under way and the team will shoot 
a match with Maryland University, 
during.the week, November 19 to 2*1, 
and in order to win this match the 
team will have to do some concen­trated practicing. The entire Car­negie Squad will shoot' in this match.Dont' be afraid to come out even if you have never shot before—few men on the varsity ever shot on a team before coming to Carnegie. And the more out the better team we’ll have. COME ON OUT — THIS WEEK!
Carnegie Rifle Team Opens 
Season Against Maryland 
University During This Week
New Material Needed for Varsity Rifle Range in Proccss of 
Being Reconstructed
Carnegie’s rifle team is making ready to uphold, or* better the rec­ords established here in the past few years. Practice has already started although the rifle range is under­going serious changes which will im­pede the shooters for the next week or so. The range is being improved considerably and a club house is un­der construction. A cement floor will be laid and a masonry firing line is also to be included in (he im­provements. This will help to elimi­nate much of the disagreeable dirt heretofore encountered on the range.
The call for varsity men has. been issued and although the last year’s squad has responded to a man, al­most no new material has come for­ward. Rifle shooting is a sport which does not require unusual physical con­dition, but does, require constant prac­tice and effort. It is the only sport 
in the school which is all-y.car-ro.und, activity and the team shoots matches
THOMAS LIPPERT
•Wk OT MUCH USE COMMENTING on the game;
T it is history now. Both Harpster and Rosen- 
9 zwieg played a spectacular and brilliant game; 
putting All-American honors almost within 
^their grasp. Karcis and Moorhead added more 
t0 thefr reputations, if possible; LETZELTER 
played his best game of the year. Sweet, on 
cnd> Schmidt, Highberger, Dreshar, on the line, 
a11 Put UP a battle that has never before been 
!W| equaled.
TWO NEW PLAYS were sprung; a pass ¦¦¦HHliiii to ROSENZWEIG was always sure of success 
since it had never been seen by the scouts.. A plunge with end 
around and spinner earmarks also added to Irjsh confusion and 
defeat. . .
THE TEAM as a whole put up a battle against which the 
Irish were helpless; the line performed, according to experts, in 
a manner superior td anything ever before seen. The squad 
stands now an animate monument to Steffen’s football skill. *******
SNAPSHOTS TO, FROM, AND AT THE BATTLE OF THE 
YEAR
South Bend was mud to the ankles, the field a soggy mass.
Two temporary bleachers collapsed—one arm broken, every­
one scared to death, and a lot of business for the dry cleaners.
Tickets were selling for $3.00, much to the digust of scalp­
ers.
The Irish, greatly in the majority, beat the ^ Carnegie fans 
to the goal posts, by a split second; “No souvenirs,” they said, 
and seemed to mean it.
The Skibos were scattered all over the stadium—lots of 
cheering, but not with the cheer leaders.
’Tis rumored that only the Engineers and Firemen, of the 
trains, were not drunk. That’s very, very, untrue; at least eight 
people on one train were too sleepy to indulge.
“Bull” Cooper, the protector of frightened -women and the 
i-ly in the rest of the train’s ointment.’
College Humor --ays that a mouse that climbs a woman's skirt today must be crossed with a kangaroo.
College spirit: A vague interestin a sheepskin; a keen interest in coopskin; a mania for pigskin.— Bowdoin Orient.
QUALITY STUDENT PRICES
Daschbachs Restaurant and Dining Hall
3808 FORBES STREET
FORBES
NATIONAL BANK
Gapital $300,000 Surplus $300,000CASES UPON CASES.
Rockne tells Steffen, “I believe and hope N. Y. U. beats 
} ou.”
“Dutch” Eyth, the only man out with his old shoulder in- 
j .iry—probably O. K. for Saturday.
' / Pretty tough second half with the Irish starting th.e sfug-
! £ing and the Skibos. ending it. Lots of black eyes. Niemiec, 
rish hnlf AD American possibility, out. with fractured skull. 
}.'! ----------—
} Ten “Knutes” being there would have made little difference.
¡lAnd the first string starte'd the game.
j All the Tartan men had tears in their eyes when they lined
j up for the starting whistle. “Wally” sure can talk.
} The story is in. circulation that there were’several players
{(in the game who weren’t Phi -Rapps.
The girls had the annoying habit of jerking off the Kiltie’s 
Hinks. Ten or more missing.
Much better write-ups in Chicago and other papers than in 
the Pittsburgh sheets.
Regis Welsh sure has been giving us some real stories. We 
thank you,. Mr. Welsh.
, NO HOLIDAY YESTERDAY????* * * * * * *,
YE EDITOR has always and still considers the N. Y. U. 
game as absolutely the toughest of the bunch, both as a team 
and position on the schedule.
Falling before Georgetown was a fluke; their 27-6 walk over 
Missouri indicates strength and taken any way, especially with 
Lassaman, the Violet is an eleven to be feared.
We are not crepe hangers. We believe that the Skibos will 
win, .despite the law of averages and preceding weeks of strenu­
ous activity. However, don’t bet any money and keep all your 
fingers crossed—this contest means everything.*******
IF CHICK MEEHAN’S ELEVEN huskies are knocked off 
Saturday the Tartan squad will undoubtedl}'- get the Tourna­
ment.-of Roses. However, such a trip would be the last straw 
-ip the majority of the players’ scholastic standing. Right now 
they are all so far behind that according'to them “It ain’t even 
funny.” Looks like lots of -hard work, and ¡summer school for 
the 200-pound line and the famous backfi.eld,
* * * * * *' *
AH!!! EVERYTHING IS LOOKING ROSY now from 
E ast to West. Wisconsin takes' over Iowa 13-0 and Pitt holds 
IS ebraska 0-0. The only major aggregations now left in the run- 
n ng are Carnegie Tech and Georgia Tech. We Technical Stu­
dents. Rah! Rah! 
j Another game which helped our cause considerably ] was 
jWest Virginia’s 12-0 fall before Georgetown.
1 * * * * . * * *
I EXCITED FANS packed the gym to watch .the grid graph 
blay it out. It was the general opinion that the darned thing 
had slipped when the first touchdown was. made. The play by. 
play account of the game in the varsity article is a reproduction 
of the telegraph reports for the graph.
Everyone now has the old enthusiasm; last week’s pep
meeting was a huge success. On Sunday morning the team was
royally welcomed. Another get-together is scheduled for Thurs­
day. Keep up the good work.* * * * * * *
WE CONGRATULATE YOU, COACH HALFERTY— 
you surely have just cause to be proud with your varsity chalk­
ing up four consecutive wins against Thiel, Westminster, Pitt, 
and Grove City, giving them a one-hundred per cent season. 
The Grove City harriers were taken over last Friday, 20-35, with 
Evans, of Grove City, sprinting in first, chalking up 30:23 3/5 
time, while Carnegie took the remaining six places. Even better 
records are expected next year with such promising plebe ma­
terial to draw from.
For the season, WORLEY took over first honors in indi­
vidual scoring; Captain Solkin led him a close second and 
Cambell rated third.* * * * * * *
THE -PLEBE COUNTRY-CROSSERS also ended up with 
a clean slate by downing- Shadyside Academy 17-28, the field 
being- led by LORD (not a cuss word) with 10:33 clocking. ]
There is no better credit rctercnce than 
a substantial savings account in a reliable 
bank.
It is our pleasure to serve you.
V m‘ y&gr
Above are the seven Carnegie men who play their last scheduled game under the colors of the Plaid against New York U. on Satur­day. The famous Howdy Harpster; sterling Cy Letzelter; flashy Glenn Moorehcad; smiling Sol Miclzincr; Tony Sweet, the McKees Rocksflash; the gigantic Dick Lovewell, and speedy Pete Stauffer—all these men will watch Carnegie function from the sidelines next year. Wally and Bob will have a brain racking job on their hands next fall in plugging up the gaps left ‘by their loss. The students, too, will bo appre­hensive of next year’s games until they build up the same confidence in their'successors as that which they have placed upon the .worthyshoulders of these seven who have served so well.
JOIN OUR CHRISTMAS SAVINGS 
AND PURPOSE CLUBS
PITTSBURGHWOMEN’S ATHLETICSThe Plebes only had two meets, Pitt and Shadyside, and took 
over both of them. Personally we would have liked to have 
seen the first year men run several additional meets.
Among the plebe path pounders, Lord is the one outstand­
ing figure. Running in the Pitt meet, merely for practice, he 
startled them.all by rolling in fourth. Since then he has led 
the field and has all the earmarks of a varsity greyhound.* * * ~ * * * *
SHADES OF DANIEL BOONE with the Carnegie rifle­
men again cluttering and smoking up Maggie Murph’s base­
ment. Inaugurated only several years ago, rifle has jumped in 
leaps and bounds for both men’s and women’s teams; both of 
which established enviable national records last year.
THE VARSITY SHOOTS a pre-season match this week, 
then rests several weeks before their long season starts in 
earnest.
PLEBES!! Report for rifle, either for team berths or man­
agerships. It is an interesting sport, full of opportunities .to 
pick off individual medals and national notoriety.' * * * * * * *
SOME FORTY-FIVE ASPIRANTS for berths on the Var­
sity tank squad reported three weeks ago. Daily practice since 
then has disclosed such material as to give Coacli Risedorph high 
hopes of equaling the cross-country no. defeat records.
The. pool is sporting a new diving board, which- is still very 
slow, after three weeks’ usage. Candidates will kick the plank 
for two more weeks as preliminary training to swimming form. ****** *
An. excellent turnout of Plebe material has also gladdened 
Coacli Risedorph’s heart. Meets have been arranged .with the 
Pitt Frosh, Langley, Schenley, and Canton,'Ohio, High Schools. 
The Canton nieet will be run in conjunction with ¦ the.. Varsity’s 
appearance against Case.
PLEBES!! One of the easiest-ways to earn a letter is via 
the swimming managership route.' Report, any afternoon at
¦NOTRE DAME FEARSCARNEGIE. TECH’
These Collegethey have, four consecutive wins oyer Thiel, Westminster, Pitt and Grove Crt}*. The Plaid runners have proved themselves a capable squad for practically every Car­negie man has finished his race. Worley took first honors in indi­vidual scoring with Captain Salkin a close second and Campbell third. These three men were hard press­ed by Anderson, Gcdeon, Brown, Isherwood and McCombs.Plebes Also Win ’
While the Varsity Harriers were gloating over their highly success­
ful season, the Plebes proceeded to annex another laurel wreath for Carnegie by defeating the Shady­side Academy team 17-38 last Sat­urday. This also made a 100% season for the Plebe squad, as they 
have-won both their matchcs, one with Pitt and this one with Shady­side. The s Plebes alsp made a very good showing in the A. A. U meet November 10.Lord, has been the outstanding performer of - the squad. Entering 
the Pitt meet to sec if he could run the distance, he surprised the spectators, as well as himself, by placing fourth. He came ih first 
against Shadyside with an elapsed t:me of 10:32. He has been hard 
pushed by Price, Meenan, Carr and Reichard throughout the season.
Cross-Country Squad Brings 
Successful Season to Close 
Defeat Grove City College
Know their books . . . know their clothes 
. . . know the best things in life. Sophisti­
cation singles out the college man . . . and 
here at Horne’s he buys his formal wear 
. . . wise in the knowledge that it is smart 
and correct
Plebes Make It Unanimous ForHill and Dalers By Defeating the Shadyside Academy Team
Coach Halferty's Varsity cross­country team closed a 100% season Friday morning by defeating the 
Grove City harriers 20-35. The six- mile course was covered in 30:23 3/5 by Evans, to give Grove City their only place, as Carnegie 
men finished in the next six places.Worley was the only man who did not linish the course. Although 
the plucky little sophomore had sprained his ankle the day before, 
lie attempted to run, but had to withdraw at the three-mile post as 
.the pain grew - so great lie could not bear his weight on the injured ankle. Worley has made a very good showing, in fact rather ex­
ceptional, considering this is his first year on the Varsity squad. 
Great things are expected from him in the future.
This has been a great year for the hill and dalers chalking up, as
Tuxedos 
$35 $50
Men's floor, Third
3RDAFV 2REKA 6R
armsD'Av, xovembek 20, _____________________________________________________________________________________________the carnegie tartan ,
Football Who’s Who—“Wally” Or “Knute” ?
___________________________:____£____________________________________________________________=_________________________ ___________________________________:______________________________________________________________'_______________________________

---------------------------------------------------

0THE CARNEGIE TARTANTUESDAY, NOVEMBER 20, 1928.
SB* liarían
PHONE MAYFLOWER 2G00 * 
Publlohcd onco ovory week durlnic the 
collcjjo year by underjirwlimtcfl of CnrncKlo 
Iniitltuto oI Tochnolo«y. Entered In the 
Pittsburgh Pont Oiflco an oocond-clBun mutter.
THE STAFF 
Editor-in-Chicf—Stewart C. RalstonPlaid Editor___Edw. E. McDonaldBusiness Manager—James H. Seibert
Offici*—Room 12, Induutrlcu JUulldlng. Of- 
Ha> Hour»—Monday to Thursday«, 12:30, 
1:20, Paper made up Friday, 12:80-0:00.
To innuro publication on tho nuccccdlntr 
ITucnday, nowii ltemn munt bo In tho nludont 
pont ofllco or Tartan Oltlco beiorc 4¡80 frhurndny.
After ofllco hourn, cnll—
Editor_________________________Oukmont E07-W............Mttvllownr 8821.
Plnld Editor_____________________Atlantia 1800
___Bchonley 23HÜ
BuolncBB Mnnnffer.-------
Advertlnln« MnniiKor™
—Bchonley 0211 
„Bchcnley 0082
fTHE Y. M. C. A. WITHDRAWS
The Syracuse University Y. M. 
;C. A. ceased activity last night 
when their petition to that effect 
was accepted by the Senate. This 
Bet was resorted to only after de- 
Kberation, not because the organi­
zation is defeated in its purpose, 
but because it. feels that it does 
not entirely fill the need for or­
ganized religious activity on the 
campus. The main purpose for its 
withdrawal is to clear the way for 
a greater religious movement at 
Syracuse, one which will.be some­
what different in, nature, and it is 
felt that this new movement will 
only be undertaken by the students 
When the Y. M. C. A. no longer 
functions as such.
Consolidation of religious organi­zations and activities of the Uni­versity seems to be the tendency as shown by thi,s recent develop­ment. It is expected that some 
form of organization will be devised which will combine thé operations of all the existing organizations and expand the work along re­
ligious lines.The Y. M. C. A., as it was con­stituted, was unable to cope with conditions on the campus at pres­ent, and frankly admitted its in­
adequacy.The student ^body can now look forward to increased activity along jreligiouà lines with the expectation 
that this type of work will form a larger place in the life of the University. It is to be hoped that this will be accomplished by stu­dent enterprise with the adminis­tration’s support rather than by the efforts solely of the students or solely of the faculty and adminis­tration.—Syracuse Daily Orange.
B. M. O. C.
A false assumption which steers many students into the unprdfitable 
shallows of college life is that the "big'’ man on the campus is the “activity” man. He may be and he may not—this ( depends upon what he docs besides his activi­
ties.Extra-curricular activities consti­tute the student curriculum. This 
program of today is a revolt against the deficiencies of the for­mer faculty curriculum. This re­volt is largely an impulsive, un­
considered revolt, not a thoughtful, Conscious effort to supplement the courses of study offered by the college. Work on the college pub­
lication^ the sports, the various 
cluba and even the lesser activi­
ties afford opportunities for stu­dent* to attain a wealth of knowl­edge and training In the devclop- !ment of character and experience which will be of great use when they seek entertainment beyond the 
bounds of their respective colleges. What is often the case, however, 3s that a student scatters his time and energy among a number of 
them, doing each in a shoddy, me­diocre way which reflects no credit 
on collcgc or student Further, that student throws away the greatest value collcgc officers; h nrc and the calm atmosphere in which one may "see life steadily and see it whole.”Many students are taken in by the idea that to be a campus success they are required to do something big for the college, while at the same time they arc wasting their en­ergies on matters of secondary im­portance. The prime reason for such misplaced efforts is to gain recognition and prestige on the campus.
The senior year is an awakening in most cases; by that time the student feels that he has been cheated and becomes disgusted and perhaps embittered. What has been said is no argument for shunning activities; they may have values— 
it is an argument against a blind, feverish grabbing at every office one can get. The mere negative 
ideal of being a non-participant 
Avill not necessarily make one a poised, illumined personality, but it will clear the deck for real achievement in college. It is un­
wise to be drawn in by false ideas of success in college, merely be­
cause the majority accept those ideas without, question.—University of Cincinnati.
RUSHING SEASON
“It is after 8 o’clock in one of the smaller dining rooms of a fashionable New York hotel. The middle of the room is cleared for dancing. At one end a small or­chestra is working furiously at a 
melody that affects the mind like the triple-distilled essence of nerv­ous unrest. Every table is occu­pied by merry groups of men and women in evening dress. Above our heads are strung almost in­visible wires, to which arc attached cclored lanterns, gaudy mechani­cal butterflies, and huge red and green toy balloons. Just as. we en­ter, a stoutish, heavy-faced chap wiLli a monocle slaps the next man on the back and cries out:"‘We must be gay,^ old boyl’ “The open square -in the middle is filled with dancers. They trip and dip. They side-step and back­stop and gyrate. They wave their arms like pumphandles, or raise 
them skyward, palms to palms, as if in prayer. There arc among them young girls with shining faces full of inarculate desire; simper­ing young men with a leer lurk­ing at the botLom of their vacant stares; stiff-legged and white-haired old men with drooping eyelids, and stern-jawed matrons with hand­made faces of a startling purple hue. But on every face, young or old, bright or dull, there beams a smile or clings a smirk, for the spirit, of the place demands gaiety aL any price. %“On the tables arc strewn gaily trimmed packages that open with a report, and yield up gaily colored paper caps. Rubicund gentlemen place the caps over their bald spots, while women pick the big 
butterflies to pieces, and put the fragments into their hair until they look like barbarous princesses. Men and women drink and dance, feast and flirt, sing and laugh andshout...........
Gay is the scene indeed; gay the music and the laughter; gay the 
wine that sparkles in the glasses; gay the swirling, swaying maze of dancing couples; gay the bright balloons and brilliant dresses of the women. And it is as if my mind’s eye saw these words written in burning letters on the wall: “‘Leave Care Behind, All Ye That ]£nter Herd’
“But out there oh Fifth avenue a lot of unkempt, unreasonable men and women are marching 
savagely behind a black flag.“Society .nowadays, as we all know, is every bit as material as 
iv was when Dives was alive. It still cares very little, indeed, for 
what it cannot either put on into itself. It is self-centered. Its fair votaries must be set up by the best man-milliner, and fed up by the best man-coolc; and then, provided they are known at the opera by motors, and at Cowes by their motors, an dat Cowes by their yacht, nothing else matters, es­pecially if they happen to have a
house at Henley for the racing 
weeks.“It is not so much persons as 
things that count in this age of materialism. Hence there is but one sin less pardonable than that of being dull, and that is being poor. After all, there may be some excuse for dullness if you 
have money, but there is simply none at all for poverty, which like dirt on one’s shoes, or dust on one’s gown, must be brushed away from sight as soon as possible. Not even poor relatives are tol­erated or recognized, except oc­casionally on an ‘off-day,’ when, 
like some unfortunate governess in such households, they may be asked to look in at tea-time, when r.obody is there. Surely all this is very contemptible, and alto­gether unworthy of old English traditions. Yes, but old English 
tiaditions, with rare exceptions, are being swept away by the incom­ing tide of millionaire wealth, so that, nowadays, it matters little what you are, not much, nay, everything, what you have. If you have none, you are nobody, though you be a prince.“If you are on the side of the spoilers, then you are a bad man. If you arc on the side of social justice, then you are a good one. 
I here is no effective test of high morality at‘ the present day save this.
“Critics of the middle-class type often exclaim, of reasoning like Lliis: 'What on earth makes him say it? VVliat has he to gain' by .;:?’ So bound up are they in the 
idea of a self-interest as the one motive of action that they never 
even seem to conceive of honest conviction as a ground for speak­ing out the truth that is in one. To such critics I would answer: ‘The reason why I write v all this is because I profoundly believe it. 1 believe the poor arc being kept out of their own. I' believe the rich are for the most part selfish and despicable. I believe wealth has been generally piled up - by ciucl and unworthy means. I be­lieve it is wrong in us to acquiesce in the wicked inequalities of our existing- social state, instead of try­ing our utmost to bring about an­other, where right would be done to all, where poverty would be impossible. 1 believe such a sys­
tem is perfectly practicable and that nothing stands in its way save 
the selfish fears and prejudices of individuals. And I believe that even those craven fears and nar­row prejudices arc . wholly mis­taken; that everybody, including the rich themselves, would be in­finitely happier in a world where no poverty existed, where no hate­ful sights and sounds met the eye at every turn, where all slums were swept away, and where every­
body had their just and even share of pleasures and refinements in a free and equal community.'"
BLOWN IN THE WIND---
Says Columbus' Trip Was
Financed by Tax Collector
Columbus’ journey to Amcricn was financed, not by Queen Isa­bella at: the sacrifice of her jewels, but by Luis de Santangcl, a Mar- rano Jew, \ Collector of Taxes at Seville, Dr. Louis Kaplan told members of the Y. M. and Y. W. 1*1. A. last Friday evening.
In disputing the generally ac­cepted legend, Dr. Kaplan, who is 
the newly appointed director of the Jewish Students’ Houses at Tern- . pie University and the University of Pennsylvania, quoted a paper prepared some years ago by Prof. Herbert Adams of Johns Hopkins University. He said that records found in Seville have conclusively shown this transaction and the re­payment of the sum to De San- tangel from the Royal Treasury.— 
University of Pennsylvania.
One of the things in Pittsburgh 
tougher than the Strip gang is the 
position of being a,dean of men. 
A dean of men must be a com­
bination of advisor, governor and 
parent to men not particularly de­
sirous of being advised, governed 
or fathered. He must control fitch 
whom the police have much trou­
ble controlling, and render advice 
to those who claim omnipotent 
knowledge. He must, in a sense, 
father men whose parents have 
sent them away to' school for re­
lief from these imperious young 
overloads. And he must do all 
these things observing the rules of 
Emily Post, the Marquis of 
Queensbury, and the conventions 
of the place in which he lives. If 
his work is done perfectly, there 
will be. no silver cup or traveling 
bag presented to him, nor will his 
portrait ornate the rotogravure sec­
tion. H$ must be content with 
silence for his efforts, and when 
there is silence he is well satis­
fied, for everybody is happy.
Let him, as, a representative of the Administration, announce that 
the school can not have a football holiday for Siwash, and upon his head descends the wordy abuse of students who have not done their Monday's assignments. Let him suggest a football holiday to the Administration and he is bom­barded with figures as to how much an extra day of school costs the school and what does he think this school is—an attachment to a football field?Whatever he may do with the wisdom of a Solomon and the compromising ability of Henry Clay, his lot is an unhappy one, and he can do nothing but wait for the din to die ouL To the student he is the Administration, and t:o‘ the Administration 1 he is the student, yet neither recognize the fact that lie is one of them. And that makes his job tough.Whereas, Carnegie has a good football team and whereas, Car­
negie is rated as a good technical school, therefore be it resolved that those young folks coming to Car­negie may consider themselves as “cream of the earth.” Not by a long shot! To many the average 
Carnegie student is a provincial who thinks that the acmc of vcr- satality is a four-letter man. His knowledge of world affairs is lim­ited . to the results of • the Olym­pics, or why Capone wears size 11 shoes. A good’ show to him is a merry-merry with two dozen Shorus girls, Qr to her Greta Garbo 
?nd John Gilbert in “Love Is All.” Outside of text books, a book is something that may ornament a 
'library table. If the student comes from west of the Alleganics,
j From The Fence
everything above goes ' double- 
strength, especially those from tChi- 
c.ago and Cleveland. These Ro- 
taiious from the West, conic down 
among us and proceed to proclaim 
tne gloried of their home town, 
big or small, attractive or unat­
tractive. Everything in Pittsburgh 
is compared, to its countcr part 
back home and always unfavor­
ably. If someone likes the looks 
of the Stanley' lie is told of the 
Palacc of the Chicago and count­
less other, features of the best place 
that ever' was Or will be.
What adds to the grips that 
these talcs bring is the fact that 
although they may be true, the 
only thing the teller of these tales 
has done for his city is to make 
one more of the huge population 
of which he boasts and the only 
publicity he will get in the nçws- 
papers he boasts of is that in his 
death notice.+ * * *
See while strolling the Carnegie 
campus: Football players gaping in 
mild astonishment at Carnegiè’s 
fairest as they pass on toward thé 
grill at noon. A poor, misguided 
plebe of Margaret Morrison, Who 
has fallen afoul of the hard-hearted 
sophs, all dressed up in overalls 
and red hose. Calls to mind again the rejuvenated R.O.T.C. Unfor­tunate photographer surrounded by the feminine liiawathas for which we are now noted. Heinie Bell, the cheer-leader, doing • his stuff at the pep rally Wednesday. The big baud representation at this same rally. The.new coat racks in the grill. The Margaret Mor­
rison girl who took two pairs of shoes on a date. This actually happened. And Pop Utech smiling at the queer antics of poor plebes!+ ? * *
Recently, “Life,” a humorous weekly, suggested that there be two types ot* colleges, those which 
have good football teams and those in which there is provision made lor studying. That a college could be a place for serious study and at the same time support a good football team, seemed to them out of the question. Yet, let them travel to Pittsburgh and take the 
trolley to Forbes and Morewood and they shall sec that which they said could not be seen. If he wishes, he can see a quarterback 
mentioned for all-American spend­ing many hours over his drawing 
beard, or lie can sec a tackle or a guard spending his hours over a 
difficult math, problem. That Car­negie has a good football team is 
common knowledge and the fact 
•that Carnegie is a school for grinds and book worm is also well known. Ask any Pitt student.
“The Dark Hours,” initial pro­duction of the Drama Department, which concluded its run recently, was a distinct disappointment. Her­alded a master tragedy, portraying the last twenty-four hours of Christ's life, it proved a flat, ordi­nary thing—unusual and powerful in theme, but -dull of line and aver­age in presentation. In fact, ’twas very much like the beer we get these days, with our expectations raised by the foam, merit proved by an occasional sparkle, but dull in­deed in the final analysis.Written by Don Marquis, who has chiefly devoted himself hereto­fore to modern stuff of more or less literary merit, the piece was hoarded for several years by its author while lie looked about for a producer of sufficient depth of understanding to give his master­piece the treatment which it mer­ited. He finally came to terms with^a Miss Joy Higgins, and after making plans to produce the play in the Spring, permission was granted the local Drama School to stage it for the first time. And with a student cast and technical staff, dealing with a play of this magnitude on its initial appearance to the world, it is only natural that cause for criticism can be found.Described on the program as “Five Scenes from a History,” the play is just_ that. Each scene .is complete within itself, yet they form a connected whole which could be rather good drama, but which somehow just misses the mark.The first scene reveals a pair of high priests plotting the death of the healer, Jesus Christ, who has so captured the' popular imagina­tion that the priests begin to worry about the security of their posi­tions. Judas enters, and plans are made for a quiet capture of the pretender.
The second scene portrays the betrayal of Christ in the garden of Gcthscmanc. The set here was good, spoiled only by small flash­ing lights representing, I believe, lireflies, though they were. totally unlike any fireflies 1 have ever had the pleasure of seeing.
In the third scene, the trial and scourging of Christ before the high priests, and Peter’s three time denial of his Master arc shown. Comes then the fourth scene, in which Pilate attempts to free Christ, only to weaken and turn Hun over to the ,mob.
In the final scene, we see the crowd at the foot of the cross, and hear the dying words of Christ and the two thieves. The play endswith several Roman soldiers stand- mg facing the cross, proclaiming their newly-born belief that Christ was really the Son of God.
The high spot is undoubtedly the fourth act, where Pilate, besieged by the infuriated mob, reiterates his statement that the prisoner has done no wrong, but finally weak­ens and passes sentence of cruci­fixion. Frank Sullivan gave us an excellent Pilate, his work being the bright star of the evening. 
Florence Wakefield, as Pilate’s wife, made much of a small part.Irene Tedrow gave a good but restrained version of Mary Mag­
dalene. Her attempt to aid Christ, in the third act, wrould have been perfect with a trifle more fire.Lee Mitchell, as a soldier, servant of Caiaphas, a high priest, was en­tirely too mechanical in a role which could have been striking. The part should ha\e been played in blustering, swaggering style. I suggest that Miss Higgins look up Newt Cowan -for this role for the New York engagement.Judas, played by Tom Lew'is, was very good. Marquis saw.lit to give us a sympathetic view of the be­trayer, picturing him as a victim of forces beyond his control—as a puppet which fate had decreed must 
bring about the death .of the Savior. Marquis’ version differs from the commonlv accepted stories of Judas, crediting his act to cowrardice or greed, and, I think, aids the play considerably. In fact, had the filial scene been devoted, to Judas’ agony over the betrayal, to his reactions upon hearing of the treat­ment given Christ, and to his un­timely end, the play could easily have been an astonishing Traeedy of Judas.Durbin Horner’s^ voice, as that or Jesus, was unsuited to the role, due to its lack- of depth. I would have preferred a full baritone. The author kept Christ off the stage, revealing His presence only by His voice. I like this treatment,, for a visible Christ would have been, at best, just another actor.Chester Wallace’s staging was ex­cellent, considering that he was di­recting a play the defects of which 
are yet to be ironed out. My only criticism of his work is directed at the battle scene in the third stanza, 
when Lee Mitchell is theoretically killed. The sword wavings .of the warriors were so ludicrous ilv*
Boston: Upton Sinclair, Albert
and Charles Boni—1928. Pp. 755. 
2 vols.
A “contemporary historical novel,” Upton Sinclair calls Boston, his latest collection of animosity and prejudice.Boston is delightful reading, that is, it is melodramatic. In the first place, it deals with the highly col­ored Sacco-Vanzctti case to which little need to be added in order to interest this world of sensation- lovers. But much exciting fiction is added: bombs and scandalous alliances between members of the upper ranks of Bostonian society and black-hand letters and even detailed descriptions of brutality during strikes, not to mention the lurid pictures of execution by elec­trocution.
Boston is delightful reading, too, because its 6ne-sidedness frees the reader from the slightest need to think: there is no possibility of mistaking the hero. Indeed, lie. is not only a most heroic hero but a martyr in addition. And the vil­lains arc as villainous as the most ardent-wild-west film admirer could desire.
But if Sinclair does not ask his readers to think, lie demands stu­pendous tasks of their credulity, lie does not hesitate, for instance, of asking them to believe that a sixty-year old lady, wife of an ex­governor of the state, who deserts^ her family and fortune because her sense of humor—her sense of hu­mor,«notice—makes Boston society manners unendurable to her, would without even a tw'inkle in her eyes spcalc thus:
“My children, I want to be fair, and make myself understood if it can possibly be done.”
Nor does Mr. Sinclair see any inconsistency in the characteriza­tion of “Bart” Vanzetti, who though he buys a gun to use against offi­cers of the law if necessary, is one of those kindly, niild-tempcred fel­lows who will not swear in the presence of a lady nor let a sick cat be killed. Indeed, according to Upton Sinclair, almost all anarch­ists are just such gentle, peace-lov­ing citizens as this Vanzetti; they carry guns they do not intend to use.
But in spite of its inconsistencies, its absurd prejudices, its exagger­ated people and events, one can­not stop reading Boston till he has reached the end—and the end does not come until two fair-sized I volumes have been read. The book has many faults, but it also has much real drama, much truth about life today -in America—and life, everywhere, all the time. Mob spirit and loyalty to ideals, sordid corruption and splendid self-sacri- 
J.?e ~ior the study of these Upton Sinclair has presented, one for­gives much gladly.
And Sinclair has constructed his story well, very well indeed. The gradual piling up of framed evi­dence against Sacco and Vanzetti; the gradual rallying to their cause of influential people; the conflict between these two forces at the various trials of the men; then the last tragic days of frantic endeavor 
to save the men, to postpone their deaths for a month, a few days, a night all this Sinclair has made into a story that moves continually, logically to art intensely dramatic climax, to an inevitable, reasonable conclusion.
Moreover, the author of Boston has succeeded in maldng Vanzetti, In sP'te of (certainly not because of) his superhuman goodness, a wonderful man. Poor ignorant ldealrst—no one could fail to love him even if one does not quite be­lieve in him. Indeed, one almost sheds a few tears—and sometimes more than “almost” does it—when he reads:
I oor Bart—a dreadful change irom the early days in that prison when lie had been so eager to see her, yet made her wait while he
About the most beautiful thing that we’ve seen on campus for a long time is the football team prac­ticing at night. Under the magic influence of the flood lights, the field takes on the aspect of a large stage and the bowl that, of an amphitheatre. No, we’re not trying to wax poetic. That was our true impression. Are football games ever played at night? We don’t know whether they are or not, but in case they aren’t, we’re offering the suggestion gratis to anyone who has foresight enough to appre­ciate the possibilities of the plan. Wouldn’t it be a great idea? At least, it would be novel—a change from the usual theatre or night 
club.
What a marvelous piece of work was done this Summer when the front of Margaret Morrison was re­paired! To compensate us for the nconvenience of no longer being able to drive up to the door, we are now offered a new and super­latively delightful entertainment— much puddle jumping. It has be­come the latest accomplishment of the Maggie Murphs, and the de­partment of physical education is :onsidering a new course specially 
outlined for those who desire to become proficient in this ar^ But seriously such a messy state of affairs is a disgrace to our institute, famous for its industries, students and engineers.rSW.Wl u3V3W3VfVZV3rV3C3HWe finally got a chance to see "The Dark Hours.” it was nice to be in the Little Theatre again— rather a relief, as we; haven’t seen any of the plays since quite a while before “Camille.” The performance was very enjoyable. We liked Mr. Sullivan’s^ and Mr. Lewis’ work very much. Let it be well under­stood, for future reference, that no attempt at dramatic or musical criticism is made in this column. Any remarks that are given are not meant to be those of a critic, but merely the impressions of an interested observer.
Mid-semesters are at hand. Is there anything less pleasurable than a mid-semester exam? We think not. No, not even a “final.” There’s something so ultimate about a final exam, that after it is over we experience‘'a delightful Velief— a sensation that never seems to follow an examination .taken at any other time during the semester. Isn’t it just about this time of the year, when We all get discouraged, and decide that Our course is abso­lutely the wrong one for. us to be taking, and that we have more work than it is humanly possible t > do, and that we haven’t a tech­nical mind aiiy way, et cetera, ad infinitum? At least, such laments seem to be the general trend of all conversation that we have heard either by active participation or by eavesdropping.
As for concerts and the like, all we have heard since last \^eek is the Hofmann recital. We enjoyed it mildly. The only thing that we were able to get any real kick out of were the Chopin numbers, all of which we thought were lovely. We were vcj-y .disappointed in miss­ing the Bohn ‘Ballet. The last time we saw the incomparable Adolph was many seasons ago with the Chicago, Opera Company.. He is one of our most favorite friends and we regret not having been 
able to see him.
SERIOUSLY SPEAKING! .
snickers were heard on every hand, or should I say mouth? ’Twould *>ave been far better to have shown Mitchell simply cut down as he attempted to draw' his weapon.1 he sets for the second, fourth, and fifth scenes were good, but the set used in scenes one and three didn’t seen] quite right. The sight of a chair placed almost squarely in a doonvay didn't seem reasonable to me. 1 wrould sug- gest that, if played again, a throne chair be placed in full view at the 
head of a large iliglit of steps, with a good-sized pillar in the middle foreground, behind which the Prisoner could be tied, present but invisible.
AP ’n ^e pla3' has merit— perhaps, if donp with a mature cast, more than I assign to it here. I doubt if it will ever draw heavily, unless done by the Thea­ter Guild or soma similar organ!“ zation.
R. O'R.
washed the coal dust from, his face and hands! And ahvays shaved, clear-eyed, and with his unconscious natural dignity. Now he lay in a dark hole, feeble and wasted, his hair falling out, his teeth decaying, a gray and wasted specter. He started up when he heard her voice, but then had to sink back on the cot, for he grew dizzy if he got up suddenly.”And unless the reader lacks a soul, he must long to join Vanzetti and that “little _ band of martyrs walking on, seeing nothing, hear­ing^ nothing; a trifle dizzy with the excitement—that rare mood of mar­tyrdom, more wonderful than drunk­enness. You walk upon, the air, into the clouds; the earth and the limitations of the flesh no longer exist; you have transcended them all, you belong to the ages, you speak to God.”Truly, whatever one may say of its ludicrous exaggeration of facts, its lack of subtlety in characteriza­tion, its rnelo-dramatic incidents, Boston is an unusual novel. What­ever one rnay think of Upton Sin­clair’s vicious and unfair attacks on the city which banned his last novel, one must admit that what this man his written, others will surely read —and admire.
What is this new standard, “pros­
perity which we have now raised 
aloft?Time was when men rallied around other cries for valiant striving. Long ago, when other superstitions reigned, men grew careless with tlieir. own lives to satisfy the imperious de­mands of nature-gods. And the restless ancestors of the folk snatched comfort and worldly joy, and the first fruits thereof, out of the hands of the living. The un­seen dread of the spirits tortured men in their ignorance to live foully and harassed. Under such conditions, the virtues of life were wholly nega­tive, and its early undoing was the greatest blessing. Life was a pen- nance for ancient evils and the "fall” of man from higher estate. This sort of philosophy, which is still characteristic of the Orient today, seems far and rernote from the spirits which actuates most of us in America today.There were kings and potentates of various grades who later required that one stand ready to forfeit all for their welfare and for the con­sternation and despoilment of their enemies. And the august mothcr- church that inflamed its mmistrants to combat, bleed and perish .. if need be, for its glory,. now and hereafter. The crusaders, the chivalrous seekers of the holy grail, the missionary pioneers represented the forefront of the people in the search for salvation which was set up to be the purpose of life. Fervent idealism of this type turned the eyes of the common man upward even while he wallowed in material degration and poverty.The “state" was then reared as the superorganic being to which- men were to dedicate their lives. To lay down one’s life on. the altar of the state and its agents, the emperor and the royal family came to be considered the supreme sacrifice, than which no larger, measure of virtue and- righteousness could be ac­
cumulated by any mail. To swell the proportions of thg empire and its .runio.r of greatness and power was a passion that actuated the peasant of meanest station as well as the hired poet-laureate. V To maximize one’s economic opportuni­ties, to lay up wealth w'as the oc­cupation only of despised and ex­
patriated peoples.What particular distiny of fate was it that suddenly taught us to busy ourselves with business nearer at hand than the rescue of man from eternal damnation and the ex­tension of the boundaries of one's small title to the earth’s surface? Perliaps it was that strange strand in the human makeup, intellectual curio­sity, that some inen possess, that pricks them on to impertinent investi­gation and study of the environment into which they are set.' Perhaps it was the intellectual integrity of others which brooks no hypocrisy and lip-service. It is always- a dan­gerous, explosive quality. in the Renaissance, the old roots'were torn out of the ground in which had flourished old shibboleths and w'ar- cries. A consuming bonfire was lighted by these heretic souls, which crept, slowly to be sure, into the hearts of the people.Suddenly and like an inspiration, it occurred to some that there w'as no longer need 'to pine and struggle for abstracted ideals when it' was 
possible to turn the resources and powers of the earth to one’s .own good fortune here and now. Old obligations, to society, to -the kings and the nobles and the church were undermined by the struggle for goods and wealth. The traces of dues r and customs to man and God could be left to later reckoning, while the discomforts and disabili­
ties of poverty could be wiped out immediataely. There ensued the hec­tic period in which the machine and the factory and the entrepreneur and the apologist-economist set up the new dispensation.Some came to America because re­ligious ideals were violated, others fled before the tyrannous exactions of kings, but many more sought a haven here the better to slay the de­mon of ignoble squalor which is poverty. The resources were prac­tically limitless, there were few bind­
ing ties of a political nature and 
like a swarm of bees, all were free to make honey in this gigantic bee­hive, if not for themselves, at least to prepare for its future drawing by their more native children. It has now come to pass, generally,. that the fruits of the toil of the pioneers have ripened luxuriously. On them. we feed' plentifully. And so we be­gin to send up hosannas and hymns of praise for “prosperity.”The old idealism is a bit frayed and musty. It.,is espoused only by cranks and fogies, it is believed. A sort of blowsy good health affects the land. The warder and the ward­robes are full as well as the gar­ages, the Frigdiaires hum merrily in season and out, securities change hands to the tune of millions. to the day and the stadium are full of a Saturday afternoon, and the book clubs are supplying redoubt speci­mens of culture in a painless way. 
The state is robust and sound. The paens to prosperity remind us, lest we forget, that the standard of-liv­ing is higher today than-even in the history for the ordinary man.The societies and groups that rally to more idealistic ventures and . proposals for the conduct of our. affairs huddled together more closer in a zeal that becomes more fantastic in view of the gods that men worship, all shining gold and installment certificates. The old al­legiances of church and state and and family even succumb slowly be­fore the acquisitive amassing .of. economic power on the part of the mighty, and purchasing power on the 
part of the masses.A symbol of _ “prosperity” • is that goods and services are cheap. In­deed, there is' something woefully cheap about the whole matter. An ideal can not be. purchased so cheap- 
13', even if it takes a zealot or a fanatic to remind us of its essential balm to the human soul.We need more of them and where con they better be found than among young people? We surely should be able to offer something better than “cheapness and plenty” as the rally­ing cry for our. generation. .—N. M.
CONTRIBS
“In the last six years the job of the university president has 
changed tremendously,” said Presi­dent Clarence Cook Little, in an informal discussion of the attitude of the university administration "to­ward the mutual problems of the student and the administration on this campus, before approximately 500 women students and faculty members last night in the ball room of the Union. “Things are 
moving so fast that one can't wear a frock coat any more; it takes too long to button it. The silk hat is out of the question, for the wind would_ soon blow it off.“This condition is a healthy one, but it is not comfortable. One no longer has time to sit in rocking 
chairs. Today things are in a con- dition^ of flux, and especially is this true in our great American state universities. Here, as elsewhere in the World, there is making itself manifest a great and tremendous social phenomenon over which We have no control.Do Favored Few Know Truth?
In education, in politics and in religion, evidence points to the fact that social organization- is throwr- ing off an old and, what was once conceived to be infallible, doctrine, or state of affairs. This state of affairs is fundamentalism and at present its high priests are begin­ning to feel a draught.“Fundamentalism.” continued Presi­dent Little, “is the belief that the favored few know7 the truth. It 
used -to be that the student was
We thought that it was only the cheer-leaders who lost their dig­nity when confronted ^by the pas­sive 'silence of the Carnegie stu­dents. And now the Tartan turns on us—begs us to stand up on our hind legs' and yow'l for the moon. Rather strange when we’ve , beer specifically warned by all the “Pow ers that be” that the partícula moon we want—Campus Week—i. absolutely out of the question. - 1-Iow about it, Editor, why not give us a' fair statement as to the Faculty decision on Campus Week and .the' power of St;'.lent- Counci in the matter? If we dó snarl, bellow or howl about it, will it bring the moon any nearer?First we are carefully warned that our opinion can not possibly change the decision of the Admin­istration, then we are earnestly exhorted to jump up and down and 
cry—“I want it!”Give us credit, Tartan Editors, we want Campus Week, and are willing to do anything to get it IF it will really help, but most of us draw the line at vocalizing our sense of futility for the amusement of those Powers who smirk and declare their decision to be final “for we do not know w'hat is best for us as do they who have our best interests at heart.”We are not indifferent, but WHAT CAN BE DONE?Ann McKee, 
Forbes Hall.
the man or woman who echoed back .‘this truth and that was all 
there was to it. That has changed, is changing, however, and today the student and the administration combine to discover the element 
in the university that is taking the high priest attitude. ‘Why?’Ts be­
ing asked about the student, and thereby the teacher admits that he doesn’t know everything. Self- satisfaction, smuggness and funda­
mentalism are ^haltered.”
McGill Manor,Nov. 15, 1928.To the Student Council,Carnegie Institute of Technology. Dear Sirs:At the meeting of the residents of this dormitory last evening the question of Campus Week came up for discussion. “Shall We Have Campus Week?” After a short dis­cussion 'a vote was taken.By a unanimous vote the resi­dents of the hall expressed them­selves as being heartily in favor of the continuance of the annual spring frolic.It is our opinion that a similar. vote by other campus groups would also be favorable to the above men-’ tioned tradition, and we add -ou? plea_ to those of others that the opinion of the student body on the matter by ascertained and respected/.
BULLETIN BOARD
In order that this column may contain a complete list, students in charge of. events are asked to co-operate by sending^ information to Box 407, Campus pqst office, by Friday noon, preceding the publica­
tion date. ;TUESDAY, NOVEMBER 20 
11:30 A,- M.—Meeting: Tau Beta Pi, Sicence Assembly, 218 E. H. Coal Conference. _ _ •4:30 P. M.—Tea: Alpha Chi Alpha, Recreation Hall, M. M. C. C.6:30 P. M.—Deans’ Dinner: Student Council, Garden Tea Room..6:30 P. M.—Meeting and dinner: Students’ Club of the First Baptist 
Church.7:30 P. M.—Meeting: Student Council.WEDNESDAY, NOVEMBER 21 
Coal Conference..7:30 P. M.—Meeting: Theta Tau, E. H. 53.THURSDAY, NOVEMBER 22 
Coal Conference.6:(j0“P. M.—Meeting: Tcknon Club, Shadyside Presbyterian Church. FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 23 
Coal Conference.9:00 P. M.—Sophomore Hop, Webster Hall.SATURDAY, NOVEMBER 24 
8:30 A. M.—Opening of the fraternity rushing.2:30 P. M;—Football: Carnegie Tech vs. New York University, Forbes 
Field.9:00 P. M.—Dance: Sigma Phi Epsilon.SUNDAY, NOVEMBER 25 6:00 P. M.—Meeting and Luncheon: Bandhu Club, Shadyside Presby­terian Church. ..6:00 P. M.—Meeting: Oxford Club, Oakland Methodist Church.6:00 P. M.—Meeting and Dinner: Whitehead Club.7:00 P. M.—Meeting: Young Peoples’.Club, Sixth Presbyterian Church. MONDAY, NOVEMBER 26 Continuation of International Coal Conference . ^ ^

---------------------------------------------------

He Did It In Two Weeks—
Joe L. Bennett, of Urbana, 
Illinois, is the best whisker 
grower at the University of Illinois 
He raised the aforesaid beard 
quickly and efficiently—for which 
feat does he deserve any credit?
(Pacific & Atlantic)
VOLUME 23 PART 2 Editors', !dwXrdTeCnEdonald PITTSBURGH. PENNSYLVANIA. TUESDAY, NOVEMBER 20, 1928 Business Manager, James H. Seibert NUMBER <>
A Water Cure for 
Freshmen—It is the 
inalienable right of up­
per classmen to duck 
all freshmen on Hal­
loween. This happens 
at New York Univer­
sity and is supposed to 
be good for the new­
comers.
(International Newsreel)
k ^¡¡1 
wBt* *psi OGS-MN
Jr
Class Presidents Shine as Athletic Stars—Here we have the 
chief executives of three upper classes at Northwestern Uni­
versity Justin Dart (left)—senior class—is an outstanding 
figure. He has been a guard on the football team for three 
seasons, and a member of the track team for two seasons—win­
ning the hammer throw in the Big Ten championships last 
spring. He is president of the “N” Men’s .Association and a 
member of Beta Theta Pi. Walter Colbath (center) heads the 
juniors, and he is also captain of the swimming team. Twice 
has he won the national intercollegiate diving championship. 
He also shows speed in the forty yard swim and on the relay 
team. He is a member of Sigma Alpha Epsilon. Frank Baker 
(right) is president of the sophomore class. He has gained dis­
tinction by his work at end on the football team and had a 
remarkable prep school record. He is a member of Phi 
Kappa Psi. Uohn D Jones)
Along the Midway in Chi­
cago—An aeroplane view of 
the campus'of the University 
of Chicago. The Midway is 
a beautiful double drive bou­
levard, and the university 
buildings may be seen to the 
left of it. Eventually build­
ings will line both sides of 
this drive.
'.Aerial Photographic Service, Inc.)
Returning a Graceful Gesture—When Cecil Rhodes left a large sum of money to 
establish scholarships for outstanding American students at Oxford University, he forged 
a solid link in the chain of British-American friendship. Here we have a notable group 
reciprocating with the American Trust Fund for Oxford University which has been estab­
lished by the American Association of Rhodes Scholars. Left to right—seated—Franklin 
F. Russell, secretary of the association, and J. Stewart Baker, president of the Bank of 
Manhattan Company, in whose office this photograph was taken. Standing—John W. 
Davis, Democratic candidate for president in 1924; J. G. Scott, British consul in New 
York; Henry A. Moe, secretary of the Guggenheim Memorial Foundation, and Carroll 
Wilson, a former Rhodes scholar. (Underwood & Underwood)

---------------------------------------------------

Plaid Eleven Defeats Georgetown 13 to 0
—Flanagan of Carnegie Tech carrying the 
ball through the Georgetown line. The Tech 
eleven stands out as one of the strongest teams 
in the East.
(International Newsreel)
A Close Struggle for Lower 
Class Honors—Colgate soph­
omores defeat freshmen in a 
close struggle in the annual 
underclass rush. The score 
was 152 to 151. Senior society 
men—wearing white and 
black hats—are acting as 
score keepers.
(Colgate Maroon)
Guide Activities of Junior Class at Harvard
—•-These are the officers of the class of 1930. 
Left to right- J. N. VanHitch, secretary and 
treasurer; W. R. Harper, president; J. E. Bar­
rett, vice president. Harper is first string full­
back and Barrett is a tackle on the Crimson
eleven.(Harvard Crimson)
“Keep Oif I he Grass— Evidently trend­
ing on forbidden greenswnrd is n passion 
with Smith undergraduates for here we have 
n group of determined looking young women 
who are known as “Grass Cops.” We won­
der just: what the qualifications are which go 
to make a successful “Grass Cop.”
(Eric Stnhlbord)
Where Great Engineers Sprout Their Wings—The
striking campus of Massachusetts Institute of Technology 
on the Charles River at Cambridge. Laboratories, class­
rooms, library, infirmary, and administration offices sur­
round the Great Court (left center). The foundry, power 
house, and new aeronautical building may be seen in the 
background. At the lower right are the gymnasium, 
dining hall, activity offices, dormitories, and president’s 
residence. (Fairchild Aerial Surveys, Inc.)
This Harvard Grad Once Wrote a Check for 
$146,000,000.00—And it was good. May we 
introduce Clarence Dillon—known as the Baron 
in his undergraduate days—head of Dillon, Read 
and Company, and a power in Wall Street. He 
received his A. B. from Harvard in 1905. After 
several successful business ventures, he became 
a member of the firm of William A. Read and 
Company in 1916, and in 1919 he was elected 
president. He wrote the famous cheque men­
tioned above when he headed the syndicate which 
bought Dodge Brothers three years ago.
(Underwood & Underwood)
Lions Show Their Heels to Cross-Country Rivals—For the past two years the Penn State harriers have been 
intercollegiate champions. This year’s team—shown here—expects to hold the title safely. Bill Cox, the captain, has 
won the individual honors twice. Dick Detweiler won the I. C. A. A. A. A. freshman title last year—making two 
individual champions on the same team. Left to right—Detweiler, Robinson, Pettit, Kavolick, Rekers, King, Captain 
Cox, Meisinger, Bass, Lee, Ratcliff, Conroe, and Offenhauser.
(Penn State Photo Shot)

---------------------------------------------------

The Original Building of a Great College
—The stately Administration Building of 
Washington and Jefferson College at Wash­
ington, Pennsylvania. It was built in 1795 
and was the original building of old Wash- 
ington College. (The Red and Black)
They Will Probably Have the Last Word—Here are the 
three British college women who are invading this country to 
hold debates at various points. This photograph was snapped 
at Euston Station in London. From left to right -Mias Leonora 
Lockhart, of Cambridge University; Miss Nancy Samuel, of 
Oxford University, ahd Miss Margery Sharp, of Bedford College.
( Wide World)
Where the Bucknell Eleven Plays—The new Memorial Stadium of Bucknell University is situated in a most charming 
spot in the beautiful Buffalo Valley of Pennsylvania with a view of the distant Buffalo Mountain. At the entrance (in the 
background) stands the Christy Mathewson Memorial Gate—erected by organized baseball in memory of a marvelous 
pitcher and a great sportsman who was a graduate of Bucknell. (Bucknell Nev/3 Service)
Certainly Not, Boys, That’s a Real Rifle—And Miss 
Adela Hale, captain of the girls’ rifle team of the Univer­
sity of Kansas, can use it effectively when the occasion 
requires. In her first year on the rifle team she turned in a 
perfect score. That was three years ago—so you can see 
how good she must be now. Miss Hale comes from Hutch­
inson, Kansas. (Pacific & Atlantic)
Giving Berlin the Once Over—Andrew Guvenall, 
Quincy, Illinois (left), and Newton Nesmith, Wood- 
stock, Illinois—graduates of Northwestern University 
—are touring the world, using a motorcycle and some 
ships (on account of the great quantity of water). 
Here we see the intrepid travelers at the famous 
Brandenberg Gate on their arrival in Berlin. They 
have visited Holland, Germany, and Switzerland.
(Pacific & Atlantic)
Win Sophomore Scholar­
ship Honors at Wisconsin
—Donald Meiklejohn (above) 
and Bonnie Blanch Small 
have received the grade of 
“Excellent” in every course 
they have taken during their 
first two years, and, as a re­
sult, they led the list of soph­
omore honor students. 
Meiklejohn is a son of Dr. 
Alexander Meiklejohn, for­
merly president of Amherst, 
and now professor of phi­
losophy and head of the new 
experimental college at Wis­
consin. Donald Meiklejohn 
has won his letter at hockey 
and tennis.
(De Longe)
An Alabama Honor Man
—Lewis Smith, of the Uni­
versity of Alabama, in addi­
tion to being student presi­
dent, and a member of Phi 
Beta Kappa, is a leader in 
nearly every phase of cam­
pus life. He probably has 
more honors than any stu­
dent who has attended that 
institution in the past five 
years. He is a junior 
lawyer.
(Orville Rush)

---------------------------------------------------

Dorothy Gulliver, famous Universalfilm star, registers 
keen delight every time she opens a box of Princess 
Pat Powder. The exclusive drawer feature seems to 
make an especial hit with this noted actress.
“Hallelujah On The Bum”—Three pseudo-hoboes of 
the senior class at Simmons College. They are not 
really tramps, my dear. They are just playing at it 
for the annual house-warming hobo party. From left 
to right—Margaret Merrick, Janet Hayman, and 
Betty Whipple.
(International Newsreel)
205 Pounds of Bril­
liant Football—Ed­
die Decker, ’29, is 
playing his third sea­
son as halfback at 
Yale. He is noted for 
his stone-wall defen­
sive play. (Yale Pictorial)
PRINCESS PAT LTD.,2709 S. Wells St., Dept. No. 42-B, Chicago. 
Enclosed find 25c for which send me the Princess Pat Collegian Kit.
Name [print].............................................................
Street........................................................................
City and State.........................................................
“Make this 
your winter 
of supreme 
loveliness 
through 
Princess Pat”
by Dorothy Qtdliver
MAKE-UP AND SKIN CARE 
ARE SO IMPORTANT
W
INTER . . . cold, nipping winds, 
pastimes that take you in and out 
of doors . . . zestful, brimful days 
of sports, of dances, of pleasure, but so 
hard upon your skin ... so disastrous to 
the very beauty upon which your social 
success and keenest enjoyment depends.
And winter brings your beauty to 
closest inspection . . . places you under 
the brilliant lights of the ball room . . . 
the contacts of your bridge game . . . 
all the countless hours of indoor pleas­
ures. Yet notice how different are the 
complexions you see—some beautifully 
soft and velvety, some roughened and 
hardly smoothed to a semblance of beauty. 
Just chance? Not likely, for the smart, 
fashionable woman of today leaves noth­
ing to chance.
Princess Pat Beauty Aids Guard Your 
Skin and Give You Supreme Loveliness 
Just the soothing caress of Princess Pat 
Powder helps wonderfully. Its famous 
Almond Base of course protects against 
winter’s winds and cold. Not a bit like 
the usual powders of starch base. Instead 
of harshness—when the skin is drawn with 
cold—Princess Pat Almond Base Powder 
gives smoothness and pliancy. It pro­
tects the pores. And when you go out 
doors—go from hot to cold—there is not 
the same shock to your skin.
"Princess Pat Tap-lt, the new, smart, loose powder 
and lip rouge container, is certainly a cliter idea. 
So convenient, tucks away in the smallest purse, and 
is truly spillproof."
Then there is Princess Pat Rouge. It 
too has a base of Precious Almond. 'Tis 
a further protection to your skin to use 
this most delightful—and beautiful—of 
all rouges. You’ll love Princess Pat Rouge 
because it simply cannot give the “painted 
look,” which the most fashionable women 
no longer tolerate.
Another indispensable aid is Princess 
Pat Lip Rouge. It matches Princess Pat 
Rouge—giving artistic harmony. But it 
does much more. It colors most beauti­
fully the inside surface of lips—the sur­
face that shows when you smile or talk 
—the surface to which no other rouge will 
adhere. You cannot imagine—but must 
experience—the effect to know how beauti­
ful your lips can be made.
And of course creams! There are the 
three Princess Pat creams to keep your
skin perfect, during the most severe trials 
of winter weather.
It Is So Easy to Find Out—to Test the
Wondrous Virtues of Princess Pat
You might no't care to purchase all 
Princess Pat preparations in full size, at 
one time, to make a complete test—to 
see how much better it is to use all beauty 
aids of one make—beauty aids especially 
prepared to help one another.
But it is so easy to clip the coupon 
below and send for the beautiful Princess 
Pat Collegian Kit. Almost a month’s 
supply—enough to prove beyond question 
that through Princess Pat you may make 
this your “winter of supreme loveliness." 
Too, you will receive the most stunning 
book of real beauty information between 
covers—information which is scientific— 
which does tell you how to care for your 
skin—how to use make up so that no one 
can tell but that your beauty is absolutely 
natural.
Millions of women know that Princess 
Pat beauty aids are infinitely superior. 
The special Collegian Kit—worth far more 
than your quarter—will convince you. 
Send for it today.
That Rejuvenated Notre Dame Team—Niemiec, one of Rockne's 3tar ball 
carriers in action in the third period of the game at Yankee Stadium. The Irish 
pulled one of the big surprises of the season when they administered a 12 to 6 
defeat to the strong Army eleven that had previously conquered Harvard and 
Yale- (Wide World)
princess pat Creates a Fery Special
COLLEGIAN KIT
that enables you to try 8 of these marvelous beauty aids
Send for it Today
•Advertising Managers of College Papers— 
Write for Special New Publicity Proposition.
The Princess Pat 
Collegian Kit is decor­
ated with the flags and 
pennants of leading 
colleges and universi­
ties in full color. Col­
lege yells and songs are 
printed inside—with a 
special introduction by 
Dorothy Gulliver, the 
famous Universal film 
star, and a gorgeous 
new beauty book. In­
describably smart 1 
Send for it TODAY!
“Sing ho! for the dainty co-ed, 
Her beauty can dazzle the eye! 
Sing ho! for her lips of bright led
And her cheeks where the soft roses lie!
“You can go to the East or the West-
All the co-eds will praise Prin­cess Pat,
And their beauty will meet every test—
They know how it’s done—and that’s that!”
If you are not already in on the 
know—that is, if you haven’t already 
discovered the very surest and smart­
est way in which the modernistic 
woman cultivates her dazzling beauty 
—then by all means send for the 
amazingly popular Princess Pat Col­
legian Kit at once.
Created especially for the reigning 
beauties of America’s great colleges 
and universities, and endorsed and 
recommended by leading stars of the 
stage and scieen, the Collegian Kit 
brings you eight generous sized in­
troductory packets of matvelous 
Princess Pat preparations. Easily 
enough to last a full month.
And all for only twenty-five cents! 
It’s almost unbelievable—to get so 
much for so little—but then, this is 
Princess Pat's contribution of beauty, 
charm and loveliness to the collegians.
A Collegian Kit is waiting for you 
—so tear out the coupon below and 
send at once, before you forget.
A New Tower Rises on Dartmouth 
Campus—It tops the new million-dollar 
Baker Memorial Library—a beautiful 
example of the simpler type of Colonial 
Georgian architecture. The new library 
has accommodations for 550,000 books 
and its reading rooms can seat 1,000 stu­
dents. It is the gift of George F. Baker.
(The Dartmouth)
When Good Fellows Get Together—
“Mayor Jimmy Walker,” of New York 
(Miss Sue Shepard, Cheboygan, Michi­
gan) poses with “Col. Charles Lindbergh” 
(Miss Alice Abbott, Buffalo, New York) 
in a mock political rally held at Wellesley. 
Far be it from us to criticise these austere 
seniors—but Jimmy Walker’s clothes fit 
him perfectly, and Col. Lindbergh hardly 
ever wears cavalry boots with spurs in 
riding a 'plane.
( Wide World)
Outline of Sales Talk Free!
If you are assigned a “sales talk” and 
should like to make Princess Pat the 
subject of your message we shall be 
glad to furnish an outline to guide you 
in preparing your work. Just write.
MANZ ROTOGRAVURE
