2Tb.c Carnegie ^Tartan
Vol. 35 No. 12CARNEGIE INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY, PITTSBURGH, PA.TUESDAY, DECEMBER 9, 1941
Vol..3. 5N12CAR ECAGRI 
V3o3SAlTG2R UO FA33N2H.
Pres. R. Doherty 
Will Speak On 
Bill of Rights
December 15, 1941, has been des­
ignated by Congress for the nation­
al dbservance of the sesqui-centen- 
nial of the adoption of the first .ten 
amendments to- our federal consti­
tution, commonly known as the Bill 
of Rights. The mayor, under au­
thority of a formal resolution .of the 
Council of the City of Pittsburgh 
has urged all people of the city to 
join in observance of this day.
In accordance with a congres­
sional resolution which was ap­
proved by President Roosevelt, the 
Executive Council has announced 
fchat classes will be dismissed from 
¦1:30 to 2:20 on Monday, and a spe­
cial program is to be held! in the 
Gymnasium.
Dr. Doherty will deliver a brief 
talk on the significance of the oc­
casion and Marvin Einhorn, Drama 
Vol. will give a reading of the Bill 
of Rights.
R. O. T. C. members will attend 
in uniform and the Kiltie Band will 
play for the meeting.
The student body is urged to at­
tend this commemorative program; 
book marks, provided by Dr. Munn, 
Head of the Carnegie Library 
School, will be given to those who 
attend. These book marks will have 
the Bill of Rights printed on them 
and will be in the form of a sou­
venir of the occasion.
In the midst of the world-wide 
conflagration that is now raging 
throughout the world, it is not only 
most appropriate, but also urgently 
essential that all of us who believe 
in the democratic way of life scru­
tinize our thoughts and feelings so 
that we can all the more effective­
ly chart the course of our thoughts 
and actions to preserve the heritage 
of freemen.
Our Bill, of Rights has long been 
regarded as the very keystone of 
our constitutional government, a 
government of laws and not of ar­
bitrary whims, of men who~'happen 
to be in places of power. In ob­
serving Bill of Rights Day it should 
be a source of inspiration and re­
newed faith for us to study once 
again the story that tells of the 
struggle and hardship that finally 
gave us our constitution and the 
first ten amendments to it.
Jeanette Rankin 
Repeats ’17 Vote, 
Only “Nay” Cast
That old adage “History repeats 
itself” was manifest once more in 
the House of Representatives on 
Monday, December 8, 1941, when 
Representative Jeanette Rankin 
from Montana voted against the 
declaration of war. Twenty-three 
years ago, in 1917, Miss Rankin 
took her place in Congress as the 
fateful decision was put in the 
hands of her colleagues. Fervent­
ly opposed to war, she joined the 
small minority advocating peace at 
any price and voted a faint but de­
termined “NO.” For the follow­
ing two decades, the Montana rep­
resentative was just a private citi- ’ 
zen who took little part in poli­
tics. Then recently in the fall elec­
tions, Miss Rankin was re-elected to 
Congress. And now for the second 
time in her life she has been asked 
to help decide whether or not the 
United States should go to war.
The circumstances are different; 
we are not now taking the offen­
sive but are rather seeking to de­
fend ourselves against a treacher­
ous attack by an aggressor nation. 
Yet these facts make no difference 
to the fragile, graying woman. As 
Speaker Rayburn called the roll, 
representatives one after the other 
shouted “ayes” which rang through­
out the halls. Approval was unan­
imous—until he came to the R’s; 
then Miss Rankin rose to vote. In a 
sad and trembling voice she again 
said “No.” There was no minor­
ity to back her.this time and in the 
final count her “No” stood alone as 
eloquent testimony for a woman 
who, regardless of the consequences, 
has remained true to her convic­
tions.
24 Years Ago
Heads from the April 18, 1917 
TARTAN:
“Administration Secures Arms 
and Equipment for Student Regi­
ments.”
“Opportunities for Students in 
Engineering.”
“Several Students Enlist.”
“Red Cross Benefit Dance to be 
Given on Friday.” 
j Did you say 1917? Yes, I said 
1917.
Our Figliti
National Antliem 
Means More Today
By Helena Aronson
“O say can you see
By the dawn’s early Light”
And so I listened to the Star 
Spangled Banner being played and 
sung in Washington while the stu­
dents of Tech stood together in the 
Fine Arts Building. I saw a girl 
crying, a boy with lips pursed and 
fists clenched. For the first time 
in my life, our national anthem 
meant something to me.
Perhaps I should be ashamed to 
say that; but never have I felt the 
horrible thrill; the patriotic pride, 
the proximity of the national crisis, 
as I felt it on Monday morning. And 
when I walked out of the building
I heard my friends talking about 
war. A few boys were singing 
about war. War! War! It’s my war 
now. Yours and mine. If those boys 
can sing about it, I can too. “O’er 
the land of the free and the home 
of the brave.”
Until December 7, 1941, the much 
overdone V for victory slogan meant 
little more than a current fashion 
to most Americans. It was noth­
ing but a gild plated pin to be worn 
on coat lapels, or a sensational ad­
vertisement with which to decorate 
cigarette packs. But in the short 
space of a few hours that V has 
changed from a mere fact to a goal 
to be achieved by and for every 
American.
No more can we passively sit 
back, looking at that V and say 
“Let George do it.” To us.it stands 
for Vital defense, Vigorous resist­
ance, Viva United States, and an 
ultimate Victory for every loyal 
citizen.
Japanese War 
Issues Reviewed 
In Open Forum
“War with Japan” will be the 
topic of an open Forum held by the 
Men’s Discussion Group next Mon­
day afternoon at 3:30. Arrange­
ments have been made for several 
guest speakers to open the meet­
ing by reviewing the issues in the 
conflict; afterwards a discussion 
period will be held. The student 
body is invited to attend this for­
um to have the war situation clar­
ified for them. Anyone seeking in­
formation will be enlightened by 
the speakers, and those with some­
thing to offer will have their op­
portunity at the discussions. Inter­
est in the Japanese War is high, 
and information to feed it will be 
presented at the coming forum.
The sponsoring group had dis­
cussed topics of current import, 
and will handle the discussion to 
¦benefit the listeners. Subjects of 
the past list “Labor Legislation” and 
“Peace of World War II.” Inter­
ested people are invited to join the 
Discussion Group. Place for the 
meeting has not as yet been deter­
mined. It will be announced by 
posters on the campus bulletin 
boards.
Teaching Assistant 
Gets Army Call
The powers that be take little 
time in swinging into action once 
hostilities have started. This is ex­
emplified by the red bordered let­
ter headed “immediate action” re­
ceived by Herman L. Childress, 
Teaching Assistant in the Depart­
ment of Chemical Engineering.
The letter was sent from military 
headquarters and requested that 
Mi\ Childress report for extended 
active duty. Mi-. Childress grad­
uated from the University of Illi­
nois last spring and at that time 
received a Certificate of Appoint­
ment in the United States Coast 
Artillery which enabled him to take 
a reserve commission in that 
branch of the service -upon his 
twenty- first birthday, which he 
reached early this fall.
Although Mr. Childress’ commis­
sion is for the Coast Artillery, his 
orders stated that the Chief of the 
Army Air Corps desires him to be 
transferred to that branch (non 
flying) at Wright Field, Dayton, 
Ohio. Mr. Childress is free to en­
ter either the Air Corps, or the 
Coast Artillery, but has indicated 
his desire to serve in the former. 
His orders include the taking of a 
physical exam at the earliest possi­
ble moment and to report for active 
service, on December 27, 1941.
E2L3ATY,. PTlT3H3RT
The state of war just .declared by our government will not 
bring in the immediate future any essential changes on the cainpus, 
unless national policy with respect to educational institutions is 
modified. That policy enunciated months ago by President Roose­
velt was that educational institutions should make' their contribu­
tions to the defense effort with the minimum disruption of normal 
educational work, since adequate preparation for the future was 
also essential. The dislocations ot’ the programs in higher education 
that occurred during World "War I were not to be repeated.
C. I. T. is making its contribution, and this lias placed on the 
staff a heavy burden. With six members of the faculty on leave for 
full-time in defense work, and a number of others giving part of 
their time but also carrying their usual load; with much, of our re­
search facilities, both staff and apparatus, devoted to defense prob­
lems ; and with engineering defense courses, superimposed upon our 
regular day and evening courses—with all of this Tech is doing its 
part by carrying a heavier load, which all of us expect under such 
abnormal conditions. And now that these conditions have become 
more severe we may have to take a greater burden, but our purpose 
will be to cany it with the least possible disruption of educational 
programs.
Conceivably, of course, the government may find it necessary 
to modify its present policy. If so, Tech will naturally respond to 
the utmost in doing its part, in the defense of our country. Mean­
while, we shaircontinue to cooperate with every government agency 
which wishes our assistance. One important step in this direction 
is the plan already under way to increase the membership of the 
Faculty Defense Committee by including students and to make it 
a branch of the Pittsburgh Defense Council.
My advice to the individual student is to remain at his present 
post until the government decides whether he can be of more service 
elsewhere. Certainly it is no time to become panicky and give up 
interest in one’s professional preparation.
A WAR EDITORIAL
Sunday at 2:22 the United States was awakened!
Sunday at 6 -.00 the United States was united!
Monday at 1:15 the United States was officially at WAR!
Two months ago the United States was exchanging caustic 
notes with Germany. Both President Roosevelt and Hitler stated 
that the other country fired the first shot; diplomatic relations at 
the time of this writing still exist.
Within the short interval of one month, Germany has been 
eased out of the immediate picture and Japan is now in the fore­
ground. The diplomatic proceedings between the United States 
and Japan were clouded by intrigue, suspense, and confusion. 
There were numerous conferences while special envoys stalled for 
time. Japanese army, navy, and air forces moved into battle po­
sition. While last minute endeavors for a peace settlement were 
being conducted, Japan, without warning, attacked.
AVAR with its terrible upheaval of everything which we hold 
dear has started.
The entire world is now at war. Many observers have be- 
lievedr that the entry of the-United . Staterr into the general melee 
was inevitable. This new Avar, together with past wars, has demon­
strated effectively that a country cannot stay out of a war simply 
by saying it is going to stay out. It cannot achieve’ peace by iso­
lating itself in any conceivable manner from the rest of the world.
To us it seems that this war with Japan, although gigantic in 
its military action and national import, is but a step along the road 
to the eventual clash with the totalitarian states, principally, Adolf 
Hitler and the Third Reich. We must not fool ourselves into be­
lieving that this is only a conflict with Japan j no, we must be 
fully aware of the implications of this present conflict. It seems 
that in some manner as yet undisclosed, Germany forced Japan into 
this war in the belief that it would divert munitions, armaments, 
men, and supplies from Britain and Russia. Germany fully realizes 
that the United States, the arsenal of the Axis opponents, must 
either be defeated or be so preoccupied so as to render its aid in­
effectual. Until this is done, a German victory and ultimate con­
quest of the world will not succeed. Observers feel that Germany 
will write Japan off as a liability and Japan, therefore, lias com­
mitted national suicide.
Before we go complimenting ourselves on a job well done in 
defeating Japan let us bear in mind that they do have- a well- 
organized powerful navy, army, and air force. By their cunning 
and' daring attack on Hawaii they have demonstrated their forti­
tude. The job will not be an easy one. It seems likely that many 
will perish in the struggle. Purely, from a logical analysis of 
the military situation it appears that economic superiority and the 
combined forces of the “Allies” will in the end bring Japan to 
her feet. But, it is our conviction that once the military ball begins 
to roll at full speed, it will continue to keep rolling long after the 
Nipponese campaign is seitled. This can only mean one thing-— 
WAR with Germany!
Those people who believed that an emergency did not exist 
need_ no further proof. The problems that confronted defense pro­
duction will shrink into insignificance; strikes will become obso­
lete; red tape will be cut to a minimum. Every one, whether iso­
lationist or interventionist, will pull together. Our entire per­
spective and attention will be focused on one thing—the successful 
defense of our country and the overwhelming defeat of Japan, im­
mediately, and Germany eventually.
We, at school, all at once have been snapped out of our 
lethargy. War has assumed a new meaning; it is a living reality. 
Our efforts will logically be intensified in the defense of this coun­
try. Defense now will mean the immediate protection of lives, our 
heritage, and the principles of freedom embodied in the Bill of 
Rights. No longer will defense mean the haphazard rearming for 
the future. Sunday at 2:22 speculation and so-called propaganda changed into fact.
All of us feel deeply the need of our country. We must fight 
to live a life in the future that we planned for the present. We 
must fight with all our resources in the Tnost intelligent and effi­
cient, method that modern science and military tactics can evolve.
It seems to us that many will lose heart over the change oli 
events; many will secretly feel the uselessness of it all. Those im­
mediately affected by the turn of events may feel that carrying on 
school work is a useless formality—work will lag. Socially we may 
become stale. Life certainly will he different. But, we must ail 
realize that a course has been chosen which necessitates the com­
plete support of every citizen. We must steel ourselves to stand 
up under the strain of disappointments and setbacks.
The Administration of the school is faced with the difficult 
problem of drawing the line between the immediate needs of the 
country ;>nd the long range needs. To date we have devoted a 
portion of our resources to the immediate need—research for vital 
defense, instructors on leave of absence for government work. The 
country today needs a normal, more correctly, an abnormal, com­
plement "f engineers. After the war th" country will still' need 
the normal complement of engineers. If we interrupt the cur-
35N12NCAR 5N EGIA l
E3O3R.3 V2CRBGo DR 5BTG2R 
5. MlA 9lI3. DR FlA 4l.T
In an effort to arouse student thinking along the lines of their 
role in the present national defense program, plans are moving alienti 
rapidly for the continued functioning of the Faculty Defense Committee.
The latest' development, as disclosed by President Robert E. Doherty, 
is the expansion of the Committee to include students and make it a 
branch of the Pittsburgh Defense Council.
The Carnegie Tech Division of the Pittsburgh Defense Council, once 
a laughing matter with its plans for air raid spotters, fire protection units, 
and the like, became an essential cog in the United States armed effort 
as this country swung into war against the Japanese Empire.
The Pittsburgh district, the world’s largest producer of steel and 
ferrous products, the first necessity for a hard-hitting mechanized force, 
lies like an open plum ready for the picking should Japan’s axis partners 
in Europe declare war on the United States. With this possible decla­
ration of war by Germany, an imminent possibility, it would be no hard 
feat for German aircraft operation from an Atlantic airplane carrier to 
seek out this arsenal of defense efforts.
With these thoughts in mind, the Carnegie Tech Division of the Pitts­
burgh Defense Council has been assigned certain duties in connection 
with the defense of the Pittsburgh and Allegheny County. The general 
Pittsburgh Council is under the direction of E. C. Stone, General Man­
ager of the Duqesne Light Company, who is directly responsible to Mayor 
Cornelius Scully.
This Defense Council- has been sub-divided into twenty-nine groups 
which cover all possible sections of the defense and civilian control of 
this area. Under this subdivision plan, the Carnegie Tech Unit, with Dr. 
Martin P. Chworowsky at its head, has been assigned to work specifically 
with seven, and possibly two more, divisions. These include: Con­
sumer Protection, Materials Conservation, American Unity and Civil Lib­
erties, Public Health. Fire Protection, Air Raid Precautions, Recreation 
with the possibility that Volunteer Mobilization and Public Information 
might later be added to the duties of the Tech unit.
The exact duties of these vnrious groups although fully recognized, 
have not been fully set into motion, as the unexpected assault of Japan 
caught the Defense Council, as it did the rest of the country, unawares. 
However, at a meeting to be held sometime tomorrow morning, the Car­
negie Tech unit expects to name the various heads of the above named 
divisions and to get under way.
Thus far, a novel proposal has been announced under the division of 
Materials Conservation, that a quick inventory 'lib taken of the school's 
unused and not absolutely necessary equipment and that this equipment 
be .leased or loaned to defenso plants with a shortage of equipment.
Presbyterian Hospital is cooperating, with Carnegie Tech In training 
students for work as elevator operators, telephone operators, and first aid 
workers.
The hospital has made arrangements for moving patients into Syria 
Mosque in case of emergencies, such as air raid alarms. They are also 
preparing a program for the accommodation of patients at the rate of 100 
an hour if the need should arise.
Women students, from both Carnegie Tech and P. C. W. are being 
trained as telephone operators in case circumstances warrant their being 
called to diity. First Aid classes are now being held once a week on 
Friday evenings.
The Presbyterian Hospital will soon start training Tech men students 
to operate elevators and perform inspection .of buildings and grounds. 
Two classes in the operation of elevators will be given, each two hours 
long.
The Defense Committee recognizes the need for student discussion 
of problems relating to national defense. If American participation in 
the present war is to be carried on in a democratic manner, all citizens 
must learn to work together and shoulder responsibility cooperatively. 
Furthermore, it is essential that students learn to look ahead, to perceive 
future events and act upon their own initiative, thus learning to solve 
their problems independently. This is the democratic method of attack, 
and differs from the totalitarian system, in which decisions are made for 
the people, and not by them. If democratic institutons are to be pre­
served n this country, it must be through serious and independent think­
ing on the part of all citizens.
Cum Grano Sails ...
S5TT5U2NI GOA F1G1AHAN1F LY L51, 
PGBCT1Y GNR F1CRAN1F 5N 1,A EOAFAN1 
F21CG125ND
Dr. It. D. Gregg-.
Japan made the first move in the 
present series of aggressions in 
Asia, Africa, and Europe ten years 
ago. Her invasion of Manchuria 
was the opening gun and if we had 
set up economic sanctions then 
Italy might never have advanced 
into Ethiopia or Germany dared to 
defy the democratic world in Eur­
ope. Now we must do by force 
what very likely might have been 
accomplished by economic means 
earlier. There is no question of 
what our present course must be— 
complete and total defeat of Japan 
by military means is now the only 
answer.
Mr. Cleeton.
Even before yesterday’s signif­
icant developments, negotiations 
had been well under way for some 
time to increase provisions of the 
department of Printing for training 
workers in photolithography. These 
workers will be absorbed by the 
army and ultimately will find po­
sitions in such divisions as map- 
making and form printing. Details 
of the plan include adding part- 
time instructors ¦ to help train the 
future defense workers.
Dr. Watkins.
The feeling of horror excited by 
the contemplation of war gives way 
to the more primitive feelings of 
anger and revenge stirred by the 
murder of American boys. Perhaps 
we should be actuated by more dig­
nified and more noble motives, but 
those of'us who saw the first World 
War and its aftermath are some­
what dubious of high-sounding slo­
gans.
Since Carnegie Tech is a part of 
a nation at war, it is highly improb­
able that we can long continue in an 
uninterrupted way. There is no 
doubt we shall be called upon to 
make many changes in order that 
we may cooperate more completely 
with the main national effort. Those
of us responsible for the useful­
ness of the College realize that the 
burden of this tragedy will fall not 
upon us or the Institution as such, 
but upon those, who but for the 
war, would be the students.
W. C. Hotchkiss.
This is one of the few cases in 
history of such an abrupt attack. It 
is foolish to be too optimistic about 
war, although we do not doubt the 
•outcome. War with the Axis pow­
ers would now seem inevitable. 
Students should realize that they 
are living through a period that 
carries tremendous importance for 
human history. I deeply believe that 
the things most precious in human 
relations are our democratic in­
stitutions and free enterprises.' We 
have had a revolution of ideas re­
cently and we are still revising some 
of our fundamental concepts. Dis­
cussion of the Bill of Rights now in 
jeopardy in various >parts of the 
world will take nlace in most of 
the Social Relations classes this 
week, and the faculty will see op­
portunities to discuss timely topics 
in conjunction with their programs. 
Dr. Warner.
Long range projects in research 
will no have to be curtailed, and 
immediate and practical experi­
ments will be emphasized. Univer­
sities will have to cooperate with 
Army, Navy, and defense indus­
tries, and precedence will be given 
to bottlenecks of production. Our 
problem now is to train scientists 
and engineers as quickly as possi­
ble. We could use the summer va­
cations as part of the regular 
school, term and shorten the lime for 
the courses. Curricula may be re­
vised to include specific training 
for industries lacking trained men. 
The chemistry department has a 
sufficiency of stock for about one 
year. Certain items are lacking 
now, but the research and lab work 
of the department will go on un­
hampered.
35N12NCAR 5N EGIA l

---------------------------------------------------

rlelR,. DRT3ARlo V2RNGTG2R 
DHe2ATlRT s2 hRGT3N PTlT3.
THE CARNEGIE TARTAN
Editorial
TUESDAY, DECEMBER 9, 1941
We all know we are at war with Japan, but many of us do 
not know what this Japan is, what her needs and desires are, and 
how her dynamisms have come into existence. With the kind 
help oi' Dr. Gregg, head of the History department we have tried 
to picture present-day Japan in the light of economic, political, 
and psychological considerations.
Japan, economically, is what some economists might call a 
have-not nation. For the sake of discussion, wc may limit her 
basic materials for industry to oil, iron ore, coal, copper, cotton 
and wool, rubber and tin. It is generally assumed that Japan has 
nil ufnrori to «nnnlv hp.r naw for one vear. Even with herana woui, VooooV unu uu. l. gbuuu.v _____
enough oil stored to supply her navy for one year. Even with hei 
supplies in Manchukuo, assuming that she can keep her passage 
way open,.she can produce only enough oil for 10% of her indus­
try. The other nine-tenths, which she must import, is almost cut 
off from Japan. Japan has, in her territory, an amount of iron 
ore equal to that which the United States uses in one year. In 
Manchukuo, the iron ore is of such poor quality as to be almost 
useless to her. Because of constant guerilla warfare in the Yangtzeuseless to her. because of constant gueriua wariare in tne lai 
Valley, she has not been able to get any iron ore from China.
Japanese country-side has only extremely poor supplies of---
Her supply is in thin seams almost impossible to mine. In Man­
chukuo, the coal mixes, with'shale so as to be almost useless. It 
should be remembered, however, that Japan has much water power 
which she has developed for electric power. The copper supply 
has been almost worked out in Japan and there is none in Man­
chukuo. As for cotton and wool, Japan has 110 cotton except for a 
small amount in Formosa. They have been experimenting in Man­
chukuo with sheep-raising, but this is not on an extensive enough 
scale to be important. No rubber and tin is found in Japan, either. 
These facts are not designed to lull us into a sense of false security, 
but rather to make us realize that Japan cannot exist without 
markets and raw materials from abroad.
As for the people’s economic situation, we might say they are
in a very bad position. The country is about equally divided be • - , • , . Th(j „
35N12NCAR PO5H EGIA M
ricula to any great extent, we will be losing a vital factor in our 
.post-war world. It behooves us to use our facilities, our educa­
tion, and our resources to the best advantage and the best ad­
vantage is to train engineers who will meet the requirements of a 
warring nation. If our country makes any demands upon Car­
negie, the administration has stated that it will aid in every pos­sible manner.
Let us not become panicky. Becoming a fanatic in a war 
effort is just as detrimental as being a slacker. There is a place 
for everyone on the battlefields, on the sea, in the factory, in the laboratory, in the hospital.
At Tech we have a defense council which has been organized 
along/the same lines as the defense council throughout the various 
cities and districts of the country. In this issue of the TARTAN 
the setup is explained. There are many ways in which we can 
aid the country—the defense council has been set up to integrate 
the facilities and efforts of the administration, the faculty, and the 
students. Students can help through the council.
Now more than ever we realize the need for a revival of the 
ideals expressed in the Bill of Rights. Next Monday we are going 
to celebrate Bill of Rights Day, not in peace as planned but 
in War. No more vivid event than war with Japan can 
bring home the full import of the Bill of Rights : what it meant to 
us before the war, to us in the war at present, and to us after this 
cmbroiligo is over. Compare the rights which we are guaranteed 
with those assured to the people in other countries. When we 
choose the Bill of Rights, we choose the defense of its principles 
and the prosecution of this conflict to its successful end. What do 3rou choose?
VCH tAlR2 PloG. y y y
VlHeC. h.3N 5. 5AHY 
VlHe ECAGRI Wl.T MlA
ii war.as A  ----- vw,
twee,11 agriculture and industry. The farm workers are eithei 
laborers or small land-holders of 2% acres or so. The farming is 
extremely intensive and marginal. The industrial workers work 
for very low wages with little labor organization. In addition the 
people are burdened with heavy taxation because of the 5 billions 
spent in China and the one billion in Manchukuo. They have been 
living on short rations for a long time: since only one-half of the 
rice consumed in Japan is produced there, and the fishing rights 
have been interfered with by Russia.
Politically Obedient
Politically, Japan has an old feudal tradition of obedience. 
Having emerged from a feudal state only 75 years ago, the abso­
lute obedience of serf to master, son to father, wife to husband, 
has been transferred to the divine Emperor and State. Isolated up 
to 80 years ago with only occasional contacts with the outside world, 
her people developed the fanatical patriotism and provincial na­
tionalism which seems to be typical of all isolated people. Because 
of her great imitative ability, she has assimilated Western cou- 
cepts of government, army, navy, and industry. She modeled her 
constitution and her navy after Germany. Her navy, which is of 
vital importance to us is modeled on the British navy and is British- 
trained. This training, in addition to her great adeptness because 
she is an island country, makes her an excellent sea-faring country.
The Japanese might be said to suffer from a superiority-in- 
feriority complex. They seem to l’eel inferior because they have 
imitated the Chinese culture. Feeling rejected because the Chinese 
often have referred to them as the “dwarf-slaves, ” they have felt 
it necessary, to prove themselves. On the other hand they feci they 
have the superiority of adaptability, and consider themselves far 
superior to the Chinese who have taken 011 110 modern methods of 
the Westorn world. As a result, the Japanese have felt for a long 
time that they should be called a Western nation, instead of an 
Oriental nation; particularly, they resented the blanket restriction 
of the United States Exclusion Act of 1924 which included the 
Japanese among the Orientals barred from the United States.
And this is picture of the Japan wo are now fighting—an odd 
country to us, but one we must understand to realize what wo are 
fighting for and against. B. J. K.
Outstanding Factors in Past 
Japanese-American Relations
Tics favoring a Japanese-Amer- armament, although in reality she 
• beneiltted by this conference bc-ican cooperation
1. In the late 10th and early 20th 
centuries, Japan had a friendly 
feeling for us because we opened 
the world to them in 1854, and thus 
they felt that they owed much to us 
economically: The development of 
her industries, railroad, and bus­
iness. They felt that Theodore 
Roosevelt was their friend because 
of his help in the settlement of the 
Russo-Japanese war in 1904 in the 
Treaty of Portsmouth, which came 
at a time when Japan was almost 
exhausted. In addition the 1904 
gentlemen’s agreement in which the 
United States government permit­
ted the Japanese to voluntarily re­
strict their immigration without any 
legal restriction gave the Japanese 
a feeling of American friendship.
2. In 1914, we were Allies in the 
World War, and this feeling of co­
operation further ’continued when 
the United States rushed, aid to 
Japan in the earthquake of 1924.
Frictions leading a Japanese- 
American war:
1. In 1800, although Japan and 
United States were apparently on 
the -best of terms, competition be­
gan to rise between the two coun­
tries. Japan began to emerge in 
the late 1890’s at the hey-day of the 
American Empire-building era. The 
United States acquired Hawaii and 
the Phillipines, an area larger than 
the Japanese islands and thus of­
fered a potential threat to the am­
bitious Japanese.
Also at this time we began to 
enunciate an open-door policy in 
the Far East which Japan bitterly 
resented because she felt that with 
our tariff restrictions we wanted 
to keep her out of our sphere and 
we were not willing to keep out of 
her sphere.
2. In the World War, she was 
angered at our objection to her 21 
demands of China. In 1921-22, at 
the Washington Peace Conference 
we told them again to move out of 
Shantung, which she considered her 
sphere and we stayed in Puerto Rico 
and elsewhere. In addition she ob­
jected to the 5-5-3 ratio of naval
cause the United States agreed not 
to fortify her Pacitlc bases. The 
United States Exclusion Act of 1924 
also was a slap in face to a coun­
try which wished to be considered 
a Western nation.
3. More recently, we have stead­
ily made demands which seem stiff 
to Japan: We have asked her to 
stay out of Thailand and the Burma 
Road which she considers to be her 
sphere and have asked her to re­
linquish the gains she has made 
thus far. Also we have clamped 
down on trade and have cut off 
war materials to Japan.
From these salient points, we can 
conclude that many of Japan’s de­
mands have been justified, al­
though we may dispute her method 
of belligerent action when peace­
ful negotiations might have ac­
complished her purpose without the 
tremendous waste of natural and 
human resources that a war en­
genders. B. J. K.
Fort Pitt is the Place 
to Buy 
TYPEWRITERS
TERMS 
EASY
FORT PITT 
TYPEWRITER CO.
ATlantic 8320 
644 LIBERTY AVENUE
35N12NCAR 9O5H 4GIA M 
Military Dept.
The Military Department at Car­
negie Tech has announced that any 
information as to changes in the 
status of the R. O. T. C. con­
tingent resulting from the present 
international situation is unavail- 
ble. When, and if such informa­
tion is received, it will be announc­
ed by the Department, if it is not of 
a confidential nature.
Fred Breyer, mech., senior. “Al­
though the attack by Japan came 
as no surprise, I nevertheless feel 
stunned and quite bewildered. I 
had expected action of some kind, 
but now that it is approaching our 
shores it seems fantastic. As for the 
effect of the situation on me, I ex­
pect to be called by the Naval Re­
serve very shortly.”
Lawrence De Simone, music, sen­
ior. “I believe that democracy, our 
system of government, is ideal, and 
any nation who endangers it is a 
serious threat to our freedom and 
should be met and defeated by the 
unification and determination of the 
free-loving people of our great de­
mocracy. Of course, this may cur­
tail my collegiate career, but I, as 
well as other Americans, am willing 
to make this sacrifice.”
Ric Trier, drama, sophomore. 
“What shall be 
Slow time will show 
Such seeking brings 
Grief too soon.”
Tex Brane, physical ed., 44. “The 
orthogenesis of man is but a myth! 
In short time the entire world will 
be reducedi to a veritable hell. Then 
what are all the good people who 
b long in heaven going to do? As 
for myself, I don’t think the situa­
tion will affect me in the least.” 
Marie Eugenia Dougherty, music, 
senior. "I hope to see Japan de­
feated and soon, although it means 
sacrificing American lives. They 
asked for it, and by God, they are 
. going to get it.”
Joanne Tishlarich, gen. sci., sen­
ior. “This is not the time for per­
sonal feelings. When the Japanese 
attacked Pearl Harbor and numer­
ous other posts in the Pacific on 
Sunday, they did not, I am sure, 
take into account the full conse­
quences involved in their decision. 
Naturally, we are all concerned 
with how the situation will affect 
ourselves at Tech, but we must put 
these things aside in favor of a
Defense Course 
To Be Included 
In Curriculum
Professor Raymond T. Gabler, 
Assistant Professor of Engineering, 
recently attended, a three weeks 
conference at M. I. T. to take an 
intensive course in ultra-high fre­
quency devices being offered by the 
U. S. Army signal corps. Professor 
Gabler, beginning next semester, 
will teach this course to regularly 
enrolled seniors in the Electrical 
Engineering and Physics Depart­
ments. The course is optional and 
students taking it will be given reg­
ular credit.
Tech was one of forty engineering 
schools throughout the country in­
vited to participate in this pro­
gram. Present plans call for the 
schools to train five-hundred stu­
dents who upon receiving their 
degree will receive commissions as 
Second Lieutenants and .will.be as­
signed to active dut yat once. They 
may be sent to England to replace 
U. S. officers now stationed there 
to study the operation of radio 
beam detectors. There are strong 
indications that the scope of the 
course will be expanded to a much 
larger scale within a year.
Professor Gabler is a graduate 
of Carnegie Tech, and received his 
B. S. degree in Electrical Engi­
neering in 1926. Following this he 
attended Pitt and there received his 
Master’s Degree. He came to Tech 
in 1929 in a teaching capacity and 
since mat time has specialized in 
electronics and high frequency 
phenomena.
strong feeling for action.”
Donn P. Drake, chem. sophomore. 
“Now that the Japanese aggression 
has begun it will probably be only 
a short time until we are in actual 
combat with ; Germany and Japan. 
Thus everyone, engineer or other­
wise, will be employed in national 
defense.”
Louise V. Grant, gen, studies, 
freshman. “Viewing events so close­
ly after they have occured, I have 
no definite outlook upon the sit­
uation; in fact I am still so stun­
ned that I can’t see straight. My 
most fervent hope is that we shall 
be able to maintain our Democratic 
way of life in spite of the war.”
Tistie Weaver, gen. studies, jun­
ior. “Like everyone else, I hate to 
see our country involved in war. 
We could do so much more to im­
prove our own democratic institu­
tions at home if we were only al­
lowed to remain at peace. But 
still I feel that it is necessary for 
us to do our part to defeat the terri­
ble tyranny of dicatorship.
Students Assemble
Exhibition Hall and the Little 
Theatre held capacity crowds yes­
terday ,as the school gathered to 
listen to President Roosevelt’s war 
message to Congress. The usual 
pleasantries and spirited com­
ments were missing as the students 
hurriedly settled into their seats to 
await the momentous speech that 
would put the official stamp on the 
expected war. Members of the fac­
ulty and students sat silently 
through the speech, and no demon­
stration was made after it had been 
made.
Christmas Sing
Mortar Board will hold its an­
nual Christmas Sing tomoi’row 
night at 8:30 P. M. in Carnegie Inn. 
Burt Mustin will direct the sing­
ing, and the Kiltie Band will be 
present to lend a hand.
Included on the program w'ill be 
many popular group songs, frater­
nity songs, and Christmas carols. 
Popcorn will be given for refresh­ments.
Within four days after Carnegie 
President Hamerschlag, already 
serving in Washington as a dollar- 
a-year man, offered the services 
and equipment of the Carnegie In­
stitute to the Government, 1,000 
students organized on the campus 
for voluntary military training. By 
the end. of that semester, June, 1917, 
Tech had become a regular United 
States Army ,Camp.
At the actual out-break of hos­
tilities, the majority of day-school 
classes were discontinued. The cam­
pus was taken over by the army, 
and men who had already been in­
ducted and uniformed were sent 
here for training as radio and mil­
itary mechanics. Before the war 
was to end, we were to train over 
8,000 soldiers.
An open-air building, our present 
“beanery,” was constructed and 
housed, besides several huge' Mack 
trucks, two nice, shiny air­
planes. These latest model Curtis 
and Wright bi-planes were taken 
apart and assembled so often, that 
it was said that if they were left 
apart by the evening class, they 
assembled themselves by the next 
morning!
“Camp Carnegie” was under the 
command of Colonel Brooks when 
it was discovered that our present- 
day Frew Street was full of large 
holes which were responsible for 
mishaps to our pride and joy Mack 
trucks. After a complaint to the 
Pittsburgh Street Department went 
un-noticed, he informed the 
authorities .that two nearby saloons 
would be considered out of bounds 
for his soldiers unless the street 
condition was remedied. Needless 
to say, the repairs were made the 
next morning!
Mr. Potter, of the machine shop, 
still has vivid memories of the 
havoc caused by a section of “Oley 
Olsens” from the wilds of Minne­
sota who stormed into his shop for 
instruction. “These lumberjacks 
were all nine-foot-six and had 
hands as large as a township!” 
reminisces Mr. Potter.
During the flu epidemic, the camp 
was roped off and sentries with 
gauze masks patrolled the limits. 
Several Tech professors still re­
member seeing the men lined up 
in the street in front of the Arts 
building to have their throats 
sprayed by the medical corps!
The men were marched to their 
classes under non-commissioned of­
ficers every morning and were re­
quired to stand at attention until 
the professor arrived. These men 
filled the Cut and every other avail­
able space with their cantonmants 
as the average soldier-student spent 
six weeks here before being sent 
out on active duty.
The Department of Music was 
turned into a band school, and two 
of the men’s dorms were used for 
dorms. The men were told that 
the object was to raise our bands 
to the then high standards of the 
French bands. The then Dean 
Tarbell reports that one of the 
trainees told him, “The French and 
- Italians may be able to play the 
clarinet, but. oh, boy, what us
Police On War Duty
One of our female students re­
ports her first grappling with of­
ficial regulations.
1 While parked with a friend in 
Highland Park last night at 11:30 
P. M., a policeman flashed his light 
into their car and said: “No more 
parking on top-roads for the dura­
tion of the war.”
WAR IS HELL!B-O-W-L
PshE4is pUMWDit 
sa2 WGR3. O2A kn B3RT.
Between the hours of 12 and 5 P. M.
fh995g p45VUi 5WW4gP
1916 MURRAY AVENUE
lr eTTAYF
JAckson 0266
Ps95iE pUMWDit 5WW4gP
sh eTTAYF
MAyflower 64743609 FORBES STREET
hiDc49PDsg 94V945sDUi
Mh eTTAYF
407 SOUTH CRAIG STREET (Near Forbes) MAyflower 2998
guys can do to a drum!
* * *
Truck drivers were based here­
on the campus for the valuable- 
training that could be gained by- 
driving around the hills of the city. 
These men were the object' of the- 
camp chef’s violent objections. He 
didn’t mind serving the soldiers 
10,000 meals a day, but it definitely 
“irked” him' to.be call$fi;-at sunrise- 
to prepare about 450 sandwiches 
and 300 eggs for our galloping truck 
drivers who couldn’t get back to- 
the campus at meal time!
Naval Officers 
To Visit Tech
Rear Admiral A. E. Watson, U. S- 
Navy Commandant 4th Naval Dis­
trict, has designated January 15,. 
1942, as the day representatives 
will visit Carnegie Tech to secure 
engineering students for much 
needed technical services in the- U. S. Navy.
The purpose of this visit to our 
campus is to secure applicants for 
commission as ensign in the U. S_ 
N. R., explaining opportunities open: 
to men in this service and to issue 
preliminary applications.
Preparatory to this visit the Nav­
al Reserve Unit of Carnegie Tech 
will hold an open forum Tuesday 
evening, January 6, 1942 at 8:00 P. 
M. in Room 104, Industries Hall. All 
senior and junior engineers are urg­ed to attend.
Captain Frederick L. Oliver, U. S. 
Navy, will address the group. Cap­
tain Oliver, a native of New Jer­
sey, was appointed to the Naval 
Academy in 1897 and served in both 
the Spanish Wars and the World 
War I, having served in the lat­
ter as navigator of the Battleship- 
Connecticut and later as executive 
officer of the Trans-Atlantic Liner,. 
America. He is now in charge of 
all inspection of Naval Materials in this district.
Ensign Stanley Gordon, president 
of the Naval Reserve Unit of Car­
negie Tech, urges all senior and 
junior engineers interested in se­
curing a commission with the U. S. 
Naval Reserve to attend this meet­
ing. At this session, duties of a Re­
serve Officer together with engi­
neering opportunities in the various 
branches of the Navy will be dis­cussed.
FOR A GOOD SHOW CALL ATlantic 9200
VÄ o«,0
A"riiu- aEG . -$“£5OXBi»8
!3>» 1PtttyoI
35N12 „ «v.
__on ScrcC"'Massey
Vol.355Nl1
eO1,CO r , i
SOCIETÀ
_ . only. Grahlc 
' Mais*»11 I
Merl« OÌ." CNANRRE
mbdATG­­vqu-qAuJ»s. a„d ore»-
wje2T O' I2ox¦
—Also—
FRANK “'¡'pUïS”
..g.rtlEST MAS !?•_

---------------------------------------------------

TUESDAY, DECEMBER 9, 1941YHE CARNEGIE TARTAN3
FCR lRN FA2oGB 
5T tCGoN ElRB3
First you grab a date,
Then a dollar thirty-eight, 
Come, every lad and lassie,
To the Guild Dance enmasse.
The rhyme is sad bordering on 
gruesome, but the idea is one that 
should make Friday, December 12, 
as important to Tech’s social life as 
Spring Carnival, Fall Carnival, 
Military Ball, or Skibo. The 
Women’s Guild is going to recreate 
the village of medieval Britain with 
booths patterned after the Old Eng­
lish business establishments and a 
town square for dancing to Bill 
LeRoy’s orchestra. You have prob­
ably gone to other Guild dances 
and even if you haven’t, Freshmen, 
you can believe us when we say 
that these affairs have always been 
the most enjoyable, the most novel, 
the most congenial, the most color­
ful, the most wonderful adjectives 
in the language. Our enthusiasm 
knows no bounds. Tickets may be 
obtained from members of the 
Guild.
Previews of Friday's main attrac­
tion: This isn’t a double bill; this 
isn’t a triple bill, but it is, by far, 
the most fun you’ll get for your 
money any place during the present 
deplorable conditions of comic 
strips. All of the women’s organ­
izations on campus will be repre­
sented by booths. Profits will go 
towards scholarships. You can 
bet a Beta Pi ice cream cone or a 
Beetle-sausage-shoppe hot dog that 
your favorite shelled monster will 
win in the CWCA turtle races. And 
to relax after a strenuous visit' to 
the Women’s Dorm Council fish 
pond you can celebrate your good 
fortune at the Mortar Board Tav­
ern. And then dance.
And then buy some Mu Alpha 
Gamma cookies, or some Fine Arts 
Freshman candy, and throvv darts 
at WAA revolving Knights. Show 
off for your date at the SFA bowling 
alley or in tossing pennies at the 
Gamma sixpence booth. And then 
dance. And then buy a balloon and 
watch the Tri Gam puppet show. 
And then dance and dance and 
dance, and visit the other booths.
We feel another seige of poetryitis 
creeping up on us. With apologies 
to Wordsworth:
You wander lonely as a cloud
That floats on high o’er vales 
and hills,
When all at. once you see a 
crowd
Buying tickets to the Guild 
Dance, so why don’t you 
buy one too?
Carols. Speaker 
Feature “Y” Xmas 
Dinner At Inn
The annual Combined Christian 
Associations’ Christmas Dinner will 
be held at six o’clock tomorrow 
evening in the Carnegie Inn. The 
Reverend Hugh S. Clark of the 
Church of the Redeemer will be 
the main speaker.
In addition to Rev. Clark’s Christ­
mas message, special features of the 
evening will include a number of 
Christmas Carols to be sung by the 
Chapel Choir. All persons on cam­
pus are invited to attend the din­
ner and tickets may be obtained 
from Mr. Rollin V. Davis at the 
Carnegie Union for fifty cents.
Both the men’s and women’s “Y” 
cabinets are sending representatives 
to the National Assembly of Student 
Christian Associations at Miami 
University, Oxford. Ohio. The con­
vention will extend from December 
27 to January 3, and will include 
representatives from almost all of 
the college campuses in this coun­
try. The subject of the conven­
tion will be “Social Reconstruc­
tion.”
Among the speakers at the meet­
ing will be T. Z. Koo, Secretary of 
the World’s Student Christian Fed­
eration; M. S. McLean, President, 
Hampton Institute; and Gregory 
Vlastos of Queens University. A 
number of students have already 
signed for the trip, but there is still 
room for additional delegates and 
any interested persons should con­
tact Mr. Davis who will supply all 
the necessary information.
Work Approves 
War Organization
Recalling the hectic days of 1917 
when he was called to Washington 
and given a title a mile long, Dr. 
Work decided that today’s war ef­
fort is much better organized and 
more efficient. In ’17 everyone be­
tween 18 and 35 years old was im­
mediately drafted and later when 
the need became evident for trained 
men, 2,000 of the soldiers were sent 
back to Carnegie and barracked on 
the cut. This year the well train­
ed R. O. T. C. units will be high­
ly trained engineering students 
when they are graduated, and they 
will serve as the officers and plan­
ners of this war. High school 
graduates may well fill the main 
bulk of the army. These men are 
intelligent, mechanically bent 
Americans who will have no trou­
ble running the machines of war.
V2lo 93.3lABL DHeA2:3. 
02a3A UCTeCT UO FC3o
By Leonard Chotiner
If at some future date you find 
your electric light bill reduced in 
the face of the probable upward 
trend of other home costs, it may 
be due in part to combustion ex­
periments such as are now being 
carried out at Carnegie Tech’s Coal 
Laboratory.
The nature of these experiments 
was revealed in a paper read by Dr. 
A. A. Orning, of the Coal Labora­
tory staff, before the American 
Society of Mechanical Engineers on 
December 1.
Dr. Orning described studies of 
the combustion rate and mechan­
ism of pulverized coal, undertaken 
to gain data for the operation and 
design of furnaces in such a man­
ner as will gain the maximum en­
ergy from this type of fuel.
These studies relate to your elec­
tric light bill in that pulverized coal 
is largely used by public utilities 
in furnaces which generate electric 
power. The coal is blown into the 
furnaces combined with air and 
burned almost like gas.
However, while engineers have 
achieved its practical application, 
the basic mechanics of this form of 
combustion are only now being in­
vestigated. Dr. Orning anticipates 
that a greater understanding of 
these mechanics will make possible 
the production of as much or more 
energy from the same amount of 
coal at less capital cost.
In attacking the problem, a min­
iature, experimental furnace was 
built in which the flaming coal dust 
particles were photographed at 
varying times and exposure inter­
vals. To these photographs, on 
which the particles appear like 
streams of falling stars, Dr. Orning 
applied methods of astronomy for 
computing the temperature and 
time history of the particles.
A discovery of direct practical 
application was that the conditions 
under which the coal dust particles 
ignite — burst into flame — control 
the degree of combustion obtained 
before they go out. The higher the 
temperature, when they ignite, the 
greater will be the degree of com­
bustion.
As revealed by the photographs, 
the coal dust particles on passing 
into the furnace puff up at 550° C. 
into cenospheres, or hollow spheres 
in which the mass comprises the 
surface, as with an empty eggshell 
cenosphere is a common term 
among pulverized coal engineers 
and is especially current in Eng­
land.
As the temperature mounts, the 
volatile matter of the coal ignites, 
flaming around the edges of the 
cenosphere just like gas. After the 
volatile matter burns off, the solid 
cenosphere burns, but more slow­
ly, since the combustion depends on 
the rate at which the oxygen of 
the air can diffuse to the solid sur­
face and the burning gases escape 
from the surface.
The studies established that the 
burning residues, after the volatile 
matter has burned off, must be 
maintained at a temperature above 
about 2550° F. or they will go out, 
even though they still contain a 
large amount of combustible ma­
terial.
When its maximum combustion 
under existing conditions has been 
achieved, the cenosphere shell falls 
to the bottom of the furnace where 
it is broken down by mechanical or 
pressure processes, or it may escape 
in the form of a smoke particle from 
the furnace stack.
Music Department 
Presents Recital
Students of the Department of 
Music will present a recital this 
Sunday at 8:15 P. M. in the Little 
Theater, College of Fine Arts. The 
program is as follows:
1. Sonata for ’Cello and Piano in B flat................................................................ Mozart
Allegro poco maestoso 
Andante
Finale: Allegro non troppo,
ma giocoso 
Lois Barber and Virginia Wright
2. Romance and Zingara from Concerto
in D minor..................................Wianiawski
Marjorie Hill
3. Suite, "The Children’s Corner”.'.Debussy
Jimbo’s Lullaby 
Doctor Gradus ad Parnassum 
Serenade for the Doll 
The Snow is Dancing 
The Little Shepherd 
Golliwog's Cake-walk 
Jean Mahaffey
4. Spirate pur, spirate.........................Donaudy
On a Moonlit River...........Alice Bennett
Air Moldave .................................... Paladilhe
Eugenia Daugherty
5. Chanson de Clown............................Chausson
Chanson de Route....................................Puget
James Steel
6. Choral, No. 3, in A Minor...........Franck
Clara Schwartz
7. Aubade ........................................ De Walley
For Flute, Oboe and Clarinet
Pastorale ................................................. Pierne
Rigaudon ..........................' Theodor Blumer
For Flute, Oboe, Carinet, Bassoon 
and Horn 
Joseph Farlnelli, Flute 
Katherine Emig, Oboe 
Jean Kidner, Clarinet 
Jack Oates, Bassoon 
Victor Plushkat, French Horn
The accompanist will be Ger­
trude Wroblesk’i and Matthew Frey. 
No tickets of admission are requir­
ed for the recital which js open to 
the public.
Tech Bard
Literary Publication 
Seeks New Talent
The Bard, Tech’s only publica­
tion devoted entirely to creative 
literature written by the students, 
is searching for this year’s talented 
writers. Any original writing is 
probable Bal'd material whether it 
be a short witty poem, an epic, a 
story, an essay, or a one-act play.
Subjects are limitless. Look 
about you. Write a character study 
of your best friend, an Ogden Nash 
version of a chem lab, an essay on 
the manners or customs of our col­
lege, or a story about a draftee. 
There are endless interesting items 
that would make good reading if 
written cleverly and there are 
many on Tech’s campuh who can 
do it.
All articles can be handed in at 
the post office, Box 409. For the 
past three years, the Bard has come 
out under the auspices of Alpha 
Chi Alpha, and is the only literary 
publication on the campus.
W. N. Michener 
Writes Lab Book
A new edition of the General 
Physics Manual has been brought 
out by Assistant Professor W. N. 
Michener of the Carnegie Tech 
Physics Department. The manual 
has been developed over the course 
of the past twenty years, having had 
its beginning in the form of a few 
mimeographed sheets used to ac­
company the physics text of D. C. 
Miller. The manual now serves as 
a complete text for the laboratory 
course.
Mr. Michener and Associate Pro­
fessor M. Pugh, of the Physics De­
partment, are also working on a 
textbook in general physics, part 
of which they hope to have ready 
for use in the second semester. This 
text introduces to physics courses 
here the meter-kilogram-second 
system of units for measurement of 
electricity, an adaptation of the 
French system which is proving 
more practical in later application 
of physics work.
Representatives 
Plan For Defense
Movements to coordinate the de­
fense efforts of the universities and 
public schools of Pittsburgh have 
been set in motion. Representa­
tive officials from the various edu­
cational centers of the city are 
meeting to determine how these ef­
forts Can best be brought together.
On Wednesday. December 10, in 
Room 107, Fine Arts Buildings, of­
ficials from Pennsylvania College 
for Women, University of Pitts­
burgh, The Pittsburgh Board of 
Education, and Carnegie Tech will 
meet at 4:30, as a formative group 
to plan committees for the various 
schools which will direct the de­
fense work at each school. The 
speakers will be Dr. Spenser, Pres­
ident of P. C. W.; Dr. Benjamin G. 
Graham, Superintendent of Pitts­
burgh Public School; E. C. Stone, 
Chairman of the Pittsburgh Defense 
Council and Vice-President of Du- 
quesne Light Co.; and Dr. Jones 
head of the college of Engineering 
at Tech. The meeting will be clos­
ed to outsiders. /
eTCHN2 WOGHG1F E3O3R.3 V2CRBGo s3lBL3. 5GA
iGyA p,A2O iGOy 
aN 4TGY k5OTR
Three alumni of the Carnegie 
Tech Department of Drama have 
added new laurels to their records 
recently. These successes have 
come in both little theater and 
radio work.
Carl Dozer, ’36, has been cast in 
the title role in the holiday produc­
tion by the Pittsburgh Playhouse of 
"Charlie’s Aunt.” Dozer at pres­
ent is employed in the sales depart­
ment of radio station WCAE.
While an undergraduate, he was 
announcer for the Saturday after­
noon broadcasts by the Tech Sym­
phony Orchestra. In addition, he 
timed and arranged the programs, 
and wrote most of the script. He 
was also quite active in student 
government, being vice-president of 
the Arts School Senate.
“Double Ugly,” a psychological 
drama was presented1 by CBS on its 
Columbia Workshop program last. 
Sunday, November 3. George 
Lloyd, who graduated from the 
Carnegie Tech Drama Department 
in 1937, wrote the play. While a 
student here. • he made a brilliant 
scholastic record, being on the 
honor list eveiy semester of his 
four years. Besides being a mem­
ber of Phi Kappa Phi. he wrote a 
ballet which was performed by stu­
dents in the College of Fine Arts.
William Eythe; who graduated 
this past June, has already embark­
ed on a promising career. In “The 
King’s Maid,” which opened in the 
Maryland Theater, Baltimore, on 
Monday, November 24, he was cast 
in the role of a vaguely liberal doc­
tor, who seems to be the spokesman 
for the playwright.
Carnegie Alumnus 
Elected to OPC
Mr. S. L. Stentz, ’31, was recently 
named to the position of assistant 
head of the producing division of 
the Office of Petroleum Coordina­
tor. Previous to this he had been 
associated with the National Tank 
Co., Tulsa, Oklahoma. His ap­
pointment came about as a result 
of a priorities conflict which in­
volved the National Tank Co. Mr. 
Stentz, representing his company, 
argued the case so well that the 
OPC extended him the appointment.
Mr. Stentz graduated from Tech 
in 1931, receiving his Bachelor’s 
degree in Civil Engineering. While 
at Tech he was a member of the 
Phi Delta Tau social fraternity. 
After graduation he spent seven 
years in operation and construc­
tion in Pittsburgh steel mills. Fol­
lowing this he was employed by 
the A. M. Byers Co. as midcontinent 
representative. In addition to this 
position he also worked in the ex­
port division in New York City.
Physics Colloquium
H. I. Oshry, a 1936 physics grad­
uate, will speak at this week’s 
Physics Colloquium on the subject 
of “Qualitative and Quanitative 
Analysis by Spectro-Chemical 
Method.” This talk will continue 
the discussion of chemical analysis 
begun last week by Dr. J. W. Bal­
lard, who spoke on the use of X-ray 
diffraction for the purpose. Never­
theless Mr. Oshiy’s paper will be 
complete in itself.
All interested persons are invited 
to attend this colloquium at 4:30 
this Thursday in room 113,- Engi­
neering Hall.
9lGN 0A3BlCTG2R f3l.CA3. !3A3
V2oo3I3 VlRNGN.
Just as Annapolis has its Chief 
Tecumseh, U. S. C. has its “Tom­
my Trojan.” “Tommy,” an eight- 
foot high bronze statue, originally 
designed to embody the spirit of 
ancient Troy, has become the meet­
ing place of Trojan students. Sur­
veying the campus from his height, 
he symbolizes the ideals which have 
been carried 'over from ancient 
Troy to the home of the twentieth 
century Trojans.
From the U. of C.’s Daily Cali­
fornian comes this letter to the ed­
itor, evidently from an admirer of 
the finer things in life:
To the Editor:
To “One of the Sweater Girls:” 
Will you walk past Wheeler steps a 
few times Friday around 11 o’clock 
and wear that sweater?
ART STUDENT, ’42.
A math professor at North Car­
olina explained the Achilles-and- 
the-turtle theory of infinity to one 
of his freshman classes recently.
One of the class members was 
absent at the next meeting of the 
section and later asked the profes­
sor for an excuse so that he would 
not be charged with a cut.
“Why should I excuse you?” the 
professor wanted to know.
“Well, I just couldn’t get here,” 
explained the frosh. “In order to 
get here I had to go half the dist­
ance. Then I still had half way 
to go, and when I got there I still 
had to go half way, and so on. I got 
to the corridor, and almost to the 
door, but those halves, going into 
infinity, were so short that I liter­
ally stopped.”
The professor stroked his goatee.
“I’ll consider excusing you if
Last weekend, the State Council 
of Defense held the second session 
of the Plant Defense school here at 
Tech. On Thursday, Friday, and 
Saturday over four hundred repre­
sentatives of industrial plants, 
schools, hospitals and other large 
organizations throughout Western 
Pennsylvania attended the school bo 
receive instruction in the proper 
precautions to be taken in case of 
air raids and sabotage.
Because the attendance was so 
great, the school was forced to 
move from room 104 Industries 
Hall, where the meetings were or­
iginally scheduled to the Carnegie 
Lecture Hall. The first session 
opened Thursday at 9:00 A. M. with 
Dr. Webster N. Jones, Director of 
College of Engineering, acting as 
chairman. Dr. Jones is also a mem­
ber of the State Defense Board. 
Topics presented included air raid 
warnings, emergency communica­
tions, precautions to be taken dur­
ing bombs, and fire fighting precau­
tions. Each paper was followed by 
»a discussion period in which the 
plant representatives asked the 
speaker pertinent questions. In all, 
sixteen subjects concerning the de­
fense program were presented or 
discussed by eighteen speakers who 
are experts in their various fields.
The first session of the school 
was held at the University of Penn­
sylvania in November, and subse­
quent meetings will be held. The 
purpose of the school is to educate 
the key men. in industry along de­
fense lines so that should an emer­
gency occur, the damage can be 
minimized. The defense measures 
are to a large extent based on the 
experiences encountered by the air 
raid wardens in England. The 
discussions turned the horrors of 
the present European conflict into 
imminent, stark, realities, and re­
vealed the competence of our de­
fense commissions. They are not
s3BL slo3RT
PTlA. HFGoH
you’ll tell me how you managed to 
get to class today,” he offered.
“Sure, sir,” countered the fresh­
man. “Today I started off for 
the room beyond this one.”
Ring-Tum; W. & L.
In Texas a 25-year-old student 
marries his 70-year-old teacher.
Personally, we’d rather flunk the 
course.
University of Detroit’s Varsity N$ws
Recently, Frank Fenley, head of 
a dating bureau at U. S. C., received 
a letter from a bashful swain in 
New York offering to marry any 
coed there, sight unseen, who would 
accept him. The letter came as a 
result of a nation-wide circulation 
of a new picture showing some of 
Caligornia’s examples of pulchri­
tude signing up at the bureau. The 
marriage proposal came with about 
thirty other letters from various 
parts of the U. S. and its territories.
A recent poll conducted by the 
Technique of Georgia Tech showed 
that 57% of the enrolled students 
were determined to leave the school 
if- it were dropped by the Southern 
Associations of Colleges and Sec­
ondary Schools. Their decision was 
fostered by the fact that if they 
were dropped, their credits and de­
grees would be accepted by prac­
tically no college or university out­
side of the state of Georgia, nor in 
the Army Air Corps or Naval Re­
serves.
“It’s not just the work I enjoy,” 
said the taxi-cab driver. “It's the 
people I run into!”—Idaho Argo­
naut.
“Tochetiquette," a technicolor 
movie made on the Carnegie cam­
pus, is the feature of today’s as­
sembly program ini the Little Thea­
ter at 11:30.
The program is sponsored by 
Mortar Board, women's senior class 
honorary. An animated cartoon, 
“Mickey the Moose Hunter,” will 
be on the other half of the double 
feature program. This cartoon was 
made in Hollywood and is being 
used here today through the court­
esy of the Eastman Kodak Com­
pany.
Mr. L. H; Miller, supervisor of 
buildings and grounds, filmed the 
sequences of “Tochetiquette” on the 
campus last year. The actors are 
all Tech students, and the film 
paints out the disadvantages of poor 
etiquette. It is a hilarious and yet 
pertinent commentary on college 
life. Students are shown in the 
daily round of activities both in 
and out of class, making all the 
little social blunders so apt to oc­
cur on a campus where life is es­
sentially informal.
Between the two features of the 
program, the audience will be en­
tertained by a string quartette 
composed of students in the Car­
negie Tech Department of Music. 
All students, both men and women, 
are invited.
In the past, the annual assembly 
sponsored by the Mortar Board has 
been exclusively for women stu­
dents. In view of the uniqueness 
of today’s assembly program, how­
ever, men students are especially 
invited. Gertrude Feisner, pres­
ident of the organization, has been 
in charge of the arrangements.
Aqua vita!
Concentrated Water 
Is New Tech Drink
During the last week, everyone 
has noticed the queer taste of the 
water around the Carnegie campus. 
To investigate this condition, the 
TARTAN sent a representative out 
to the Pittsburgh Municipal Filtra­
tion Plant to interview one of 
its staff, Mr. Drake.
Mr. Drake said that this past 
summer was a very dry one in com­
parison to the amount of. normal 
rainfall. Consequently, many pools 
of what we called “concentrated 
water” were left in the upper ws?ter 
shed or water supply of the city. 
The concentrated water is com­
posed, often times, of industrial 
waste products. In the past few 
weeks we have had our first hard 
rains of the season. These heavy 
fall rains are washing these pools 
of water into our regular supply.
It is estimated by the Filtration 
Plant staff that there is actually 
only one pound of concentrated wa­
ter in every one hundred pounds 
of ordinary water consumed. For 
this locality, this concentrated wa­
ter situation is not an unusual oc­
currence. We are asked to remem­
ber that this condition prevails 
throughout most of the city and 
is definitely only temporary.
waiting till foreign planes are on 
the way, but "are preparing now.
Although the speakers of the 
school emphasized in dead earnest 
that now was the time to prepare 
for defense and that it would be 
insanity to wait till the enemy 
avalanche was overhead, the possi­
bilities of hostilities and a declara­
tion of war seemed so remote that' 
the defense program to be under­
taken by industry appeared as a 
plan to be considered and under­
taken in the future when the press 
of defense production was less 
severe.
It is doubtful that there was one 
man in that school who thought that 
within two and a half days the 
United States would be involved in 
war, and that in three and a half 
days a formal declaration of war 
would be made. But even though 
such a contingency was not dream­
ed possible, and though the war 
seemed remote, industry was work­
ing, preparing carefully and ef­
ficiently for an emergency. The wis­
dom of the Defense program lead­
ers is now a matter of history. The 
foresight and prompt action of the 
defense heads exemplified by this 
school is significant of the national 
effort throughout industry and 
should serve to give a feeling of de­
termined confidence to the Amer­
ican people.
Thisllo Notice
All fraternities and sororities who 
wish to have a page of candid snaps 
in the 1942 Thistle must present 
pictures for the page by Friday, De­
cember 12. Failure to comply with 
this request will result in the 
omission of that group’s page from 
the yearbook.
Chinese Articles 
Sold Chi Campus
Rose Hum Lee will conduct an­
other sale of cholco Chinese gifts 
before the beginning of the Christ­
mas holidays. Time of sale will be 
Thursday, December 11, 19-11, from 
4:30 to 0 p. m. In the second floor 
Alcove of Margaret Morrison. This 
year the gifts are more unusual 
than the two previous years with a 
wide selection of jewelry, linens, 
and silks. Unusual designs and 
settings make them Interesting. The 
linens include fine handkerchiefs 
and table-pleces in bridge or super 
sizes. The novelties are made in 
the Mission Schools.
Due to the tense situation in the 
Far East and the lack of ships call­
ing at ports, it is due only to the 
personal attention of members of 
her family that these articles were 
forwarded. Some of the gifts have 
been on the way for many months 
and it is fortunate that their arrival 
coincides with the holiday season.
Number Theory 
To Be Reviewed
Engineering students will have 
an opportunity to learn about a 
branch of mathematics not offered 
in the Carnegie Tech curricula 
at the meeting of the Undergradu­
ate Mathematics Club this Friday. 
Charles P. Price, a mathematics 
graduate of Harvard University 
and now an engineering under­
graduate at Carnegie Tech, will 
present his thesis entitled “Bert­
rand’s Postulate.”
This paper is on a topic select­
ed from a field of mathematics with 
which the public is not well ac­
quainted. This field is Number 
Theory, and is not covered in our 
engineering curricula. All inter­
ested persons are invited to attend 
this meeting on Friday, December
12, at 3:30 P. M. in Room 135-C, 
Industries Hall.
The solution to the first Brain 
Teaser, published in the November
11 issue of the Tartan is as follows: 
The relative motion of the plane to 
the balloon is the same as if they 
were in still air. Therefore the to­
tal time required for the plane to 
leave and return to the balloon was 
one hour, during which time the 
balloon traveled fifteen miles. 
Hence the speed of the balloon was 
fifteen miles per hour.
The most concise solution to 
Problem 1 was submitted by J. K. 
Quermoun, ’42. It' was also solved 
correctly by H. B. Imbodeu, ’43; R. 
J. Lew, ’43; J. O. Mack, ’43; Ii.
C. Sehweinlcr, ’44; and H. C. 
Volkin, ’44.
On tlic IlccOrtl |
Today:
12:30, Room 157, Arts, Mr. 
Charles A. H. Pearson will super­
vise this phonograph recital:
Symphony No. 4 in E minor........
............................................ Brahms
Thursday, December 11:
12:30, Room 157, Arts, Dr. Fred­
erick Dorian will be in charge of 
this program:
Old and Modern Chamber 
Music.

---------------------------------------------------

4THE CARNEGIE TARTANTUESDAY, DECEMBER 9, 1941
WINGATE
neFy TTfP FD2TAU2DN2 '®j 
«¿y Douglas Dougla to-the-Wood — Up'fo•//»#-/! mb' "construction 
,usures you heller fit —greater comfort.
VlAR3IG3 PslATlC
VRARRBoR DR.ToTCT2 2O s3BLR2o2IY- pBoGBRoBY 0lAK- 0GTT.SCAIL- 0ly0!Ui4 f5gFWUM49 ;OoUU 0!Ui4 zVDD4iW4g ~OxAx'
gE2N25NF AcEOAFFAR 2N 1,A EGIAF 5P 1,A pempeb GOA 1,5FA 5P 1,A HAHd
LAOF 5P 1T­A F1GPPv 2N 1,A BGFA 5P 1,A AR215O2GT B5TCHN 1,AY GOA 1,5FA 5P 1,A 
qR215OD p,AY GOB N51 15 LA B5NF1OCAR GF NABAFFGO2TY 1,A 5E2N25NF 5P A21,AO 
1,A F1CRAN1 L5RY 5O 1,A PGBCT1YD
R3ARR2JisJE A2R Vol.3Vo5 5Ec4RsG2GAGl RA
,, National Advertising Scrvice, Inc.
Memb" 35TTAIA 4CLT2F,AOu maEHiG-1wRssocialed Cbllefticile Press 420 ««’"¦<”'_.o nlny Gy ryc’7 V!DV5tU d DoUEsU! d WUp 5!UJWJp d V5f F95iVDPVU
EG.TAGSCT2A 2O 5OT3A UOOGB3 !2CA. Vloo
b VLooeOTGRoe EGAT0.T 4NGT2AbDRbVLG3Oyyyyyyyyyyyyy PVLBRoBY “”'”
pC.GR3.. flRlI3Ayyyyyyyyyyyyy!5—Bo 8z“z
5N:3ATG.GRI flRlI3Ay bPVL3Ro3Y ““88
4RTRARGo HG !2B2RNbBol!! HlGo3A DR TLA 0oTTRSCAJL 02RT UOool3 CRN3A TL3 5BT 2O flABL 8- ?z'xy0CSoG.L3N a33KoY NCAGRI RRL2Ro Y3lA- 3\B3eT L2oGNlYm lRN 3\lHGRlTG2R e3AG2N.y 
!CLRBAGeoo2R 0AGB3 PDy?” e3A Y3lAy
aFFCA qR215OF.............................4GT qTHGO. jGBy t,5OA
xR215O¦2N¦3,2AP .................................................................................... tGCT i5FAF
:CF2NAFF iGNGIAO.....................................................................-GOOY eLOGH5­210
iGNGI2NI qR215O.......................................................................j5GNNA p2F,TGO2B,
bAUF qR215O..................................................................................:GOLGOG !OGHAO
eFF2F1GN1 iGNGI2NI qR215O.........................................................K2TLAO1 !HANF5N
35EY qR215O.........................................................................iAOBARAF 3CNN2NI,GH
35EY qR215O....................................................................................4,YTT2F :CB,HGN
tE5O1F qR215Oyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyr23 p,5HGF
eR­AO12F2NI iGNGIAO..............................................................tYT­GN m5FANP2ATR
32OBCTG125N iGNGIAO.....................................................................t2RNAY KALAT5U
t1GPP eO12F1...........................................................................................qTT2511 pUAOY
:CF2NAFF t1GPP; WAA eNRATTG. pAR b2AOANLAOI. tCNNY zGNRAOHGN. pAR
:CO12F. iYO5N kGNRAO. jAOOY jGB5LFD
jCN25O qR215OF; 4G1 qTHGN. zA5NGOR 3,512NAO. m5LAO1 W2c5N. :2TT !2NI. 
jAGNNA !2NI. iGO2GNNG -5II. kGT1AO -GTTAO. jGBy t,5OA. iAT tNYRAOD 
mAE5O1AOF; -ATANG eO5NF5N. tGH 35TT2AOF. kGT1 WGOLY. jAGN WG­2RF5N. 
-GT W2ByF5N. KAOOY qRBTF5N. j2H KA2F1. 3,GOTAF K5A,O2NI. qR K5TRd
F1A2N. tGCT KOAANUGTR. pD jD aTGOHGNY. mC1, -GCF. jCNA !N2FyAH. 
3,O2F12NA zG 3,2H2G. qTG2NA zA­2N. :2TT zT5YR. tYT­2G i2TTAO. bG1GT2A 
bG1,GN. eT 45FTCF0NY. :5L 45ICA. iGRAT2NA m5LL2NF. z5C2FA tGCT. 
jCRY tyAA,GN. mAG t2H5N, :CR pA2B,HGN. W5N kG1y2NF. W5NN WOGyAD
Letter to the Editor
E3lA fAy 4NGT2A( D Ll:3 S33R B2R:GRB3N O2A l o2RI
5T TL3 S3IGRRGRI 2O ol.T a33K- a3 TGH3 TLlT TL3 e2GRT GR )C3.TG2R G.
O2CRN l .GIR lN:3ATG.GRI TL3 w5OT3A 2R3 R2T 2O OlBT SCT 2O 2eGRG2R- lRN
TL3 tlH3 ElRB3¦ e2.T3N 2R 2CA l. .CBL- HlY S3 lAIC3N OA2H R2a
SCoo3TGR S2lAN L3A3 GR PB2S3oo !loo- ,TGo TL3 BAlBK 2O N22H aGTL2CT 3:3A
E2aR GR TL3 B2AR3A 2O TL3 eolBlAN- BLlRIGRI lRY2R3,. HGRN aL2
TL3A3 al. l .Hloo R2TGB3 T2 TL3 3Ob eo3l.3. T2 S3oG3:3 2R3 alY 2A TL3
O33T TLlT TL3 lNHG..G2R eoC. Tl\ T2 2TL3A" TL3 B2R:GRBGRI OlBT. 1C.T
TLG. NlRB3 a2CoN S3 2R3 N2oolA lRN lA3R,T TL3A3y
T3R B3RT.y sL3A3 G. 2R3 e2GRT GR VLlAo3.
MGTLGR l O3a L2CA.- 2R3 2O TL3 9GBLlAN.2R,. o3TT3A T2 TL3 3NGT2A 2­
A3IColA N2AH .GIR .BAGSSoGRI lATb i2:3HS3A kn aLGBL N23.R,T HlK3
G.T. LlN HlN3 LG. B2RTAGSCTG2R- T22 HCBL .3R.3 T2 H3( !G. 2e3RGRI
!2a3:3A- TLG. al. 2R3 TGH3 TLlT TL3 .3RT3RB3 B2R.G.T. 2O a2AN. 3Hb
eA2:3ASGlo 12K3A A3looY eCT .2H3b S2NYGRI TL3 GN3l TLlT TL3 eCSoGBlb
TLGRI 2O GHe2ATlRB3 GRT2 LG. H3..lI3- TG2R 2O l O3a lATGBo3. B2RB3ARGRI
UR TL3 .GIR L3 LlN aAGTT3R- w6C2T3 3:3RT. 2BBCAAGRI 2CT.GN3 TL3 BlHb
PTCN3RT V2CRBGo- _0AGB3 aGoo S3 A3lb ya> NlRI3A2C.oY A3NCB3 3Hb
- - - y • eLl.G. 2R BlHeC. lOOlGA.y sL3A3 G.sonablc,1 unquote. no noccssaiy cause and effect here.
E2R,T Y2C TLGRK TLlT TL3A3 G. 1C.T sL3A3 N23.R,T .33H T2 S3 lRY elAb
l oGTTo3 Sl.G. O2A LG. A3HlAK« E2 TGBColA A3l.2R aLY TL3 wslATlR¦
Y2C TLGRK TLlT %?y?” G. l :3AY wA3lb BRRxT BG” l I22N 12T„ 2O S2TL/ 2A
B2RlSo3¦ O33 O2A l NlRB3 2O TLG. a1oY 2R3 >Ye3 ”O R3a. Hh.T .COO3A
KGRN« UO B2CA.3- a3 BlR .33 aLY S3BlC.3 2O TL3 GRBoC.G2R 2O TL3 
GT HGILT S2 R3B3..lAY O2A TL3 eAGB3 2TL3Ay
T2 S2 .2 LGILy i3:3ATL3o3..- O2A yyy yy y$$$y yy- yy m D q G - - -- yy - • DD TL3 .TlT3H3RT a2A3 TAC3- TL3Rl NlRB3 2O TLG. TYe2- B2CoNR,T GT S3 yy O y y y yy yy - -yyyy TL3 OlBT. lIlGR.T .CBL lBTG:GTY a2CoNe2..GSo3 T2 C.3 l o3.. 3\e3R.G:3 y - yy - LD yyyy y yyyyyyy- yyy yy Dy yD S3 OlA T22 O2AHGNlSo3 T2 1C.TGOY GTyTL3H3 2O N3B2AlTG2R lRN TAY T2 K33e O ••H m K A G- - - y yyy VlHeC. lOOlGA. 2CILT T2 S3 2O eAGbthe pHce down to about one-halt lmporUncc fcln any colJcgc
2 GB eG N3 - eCSoGBlTG2R" SCT GT .CA3oY N23.R,T
q , \?, p t O2oo2a OA2H TLlT .TlT3H3RT lo2R3
$$$$$$$  $r ’ _ , TLlT 3\TAlbBlHeC. GT3H. .L2CoN
A-yyy TL3A3O2A3 S2 3\BoCN3NyfA- 4NGT2A(
- -- G G 1 G 221 1G 5 B2oCHR 2R- .lY- GRT3ARlTG2Rloi2 l22R2A G. GT y.CII3.T3N TLlT TL3 - -- yy yy y yyyy G G .~ A 21 loGlGA.- a2CoN- GT G. )CGT3 TAC3- Ll:3slATlR N3:2T3 l e2ATG2R 2O GT. -y y y y A yy - , yyyy G G .11 A 2 oGTTo3 GRTAGR.GB GRO2AHlTG2Rlo :loC3" y.elB3 T2 TL3 B2R.GN3AlTG2R 2O 3\TAlb - - -y y y yy DD Vf y:GH C SCT GT a2CoN S3 :loClSo3 GO GT NG.bBlHeC. lOOlGA. TLlR TL3A3 lAG.3. 2 y yy y- - BC..3N .CBL lOOlGA. l. TL3Y lee3lA T2.3AG3. 2O B2HH3RT.- aAGTT3R lRN y y y y Ho ??y yyy yy y y l B2oo3I3 .TCN3RTy sL3 NGOO3A3RB3 GR2TL3AaG.3- aLGBL eA2O3..3. T2 IG:3 • yy - - yy y yyy TGo TL3 e3A.e3BTG:3 2O .CBL l B2oCHR:loGN A3l.2R. aLY TLlT ele3A .L2CoN y - s y-
not transgress the old, conservative ",HI d'. thlnk- d,c‘ 'boundaries. Who is to say what e. ‘f “ Powiblllty, too, that it
the natural or logical realm oi the "ould lnd,calo,lo) ®"BOnf JC1PTRDA"Tartan” or any other college ,oumln,s wh?‘ th5. .^udent isnewspaper ought to be? It has al- th,"iSS concerning affairs not di-ways seemed to me that the con- 1Lctlf connected with the college,
cept or the “sphere oi influence" * one should be very much or a college pa&r is an entity ex- disappointed . the "Tartan - did 
yyy G d yG G A 4 d R2T lT o3l.T lTT3HeT T2 3\e3AGH3RTG.TGRI 2RoY GR TL3 HGRN. 2O B3ATlGR ahL C y ? >
e3A.2R. aL2 O2A .2H3 A3l.2R 2A
lR2TL3A 1C.T Llee3R T2 oGK3 TL3 PGRB3A3oY-
GN3ly f5h9DV4 ph9J4y
NEWEST FASHIONS IN LADY DOUGLAS, 54.00 AND S5.00
. . Off The Cuff . .
The orchestra for last Friday’s 
After the Game dance was none 
other than Bill Le Roy’s. Looks like 
somebody was trying to scoop the 
Guild dance, but they were unsuc­
cessful since the attendance was 
very poor. Well, at least there was 
plenty of room for the jitterbugs.
Bill Furlick was with none other 
than Eleanor Cunio. This is an­
other case of a gal with a frat pin 
from one guy stepping out with an­
other guy. Ah me, this eternal tri­
angle.
We note that handsome Jacques 
Meyers and cute Janie Swearer are 
still a two-some. Ditto for Made­
line Forsythe and Fred Dietrich, 
who gave a marvelous demonstra­
tion of ballroom dancing or “the 
art of keeping off the other person’s 
feet.”
Ginny Francis is starting some­
thing new—breaking engagements 
instead of making them. This time 
the disengaged man is Ken Sloan.
The Barbro Lindstrom-Dan Lind- 
strom (no, they ain’t married!) 
combination is a good one and they 
should' be headed for big things.
The bugs got together at the1 
Scarab Convention Dance. We’re 
referring to the fact that there were 
a large number of Beetles with a 
large number of Scarabs.
And what is this we hear about 
Delberta Holtzhauer, one of those 
Mellon Hall gals, and Chuck Green­
ing? Looks like they are settling 
down.
Betty Jane Woelfel and Jerry 
Moss certainly look as if the bug 
had bitten them. You should have 
seen Betty Jane’s eyes at the bas­
ketball game whenever Jerry made 
a basket. (Frosh team.)
In this time when blind dates and 
newcomers are rising thick and 
fast, nothin’ can result but surprises 
such as Doris Musser with Al 
Kritscher, Sue Shoemaker with 
Jack Sdtterfield, Marion Krogh and 
Bob Smith.
As one of our trusty lieutenants 
sneaked across the campus the 
other night, he spied Hal Hartleib, 
in the company of an unidentified 
young lady, blissfully walking 
across the cut. Hal is obviously 
one of the school’s leading expon­
ents of the familiar adage, “Never 
let your studies interfere with your 
college education.”
And then we saw Eloise Law- 
thers helping Andy Vadasz with his 
math in the beanery. And we had 
thought all along that Maggie 
Murphs didn’t know how to handle 
a slide rule!
Paul Malm is oiling up his six- 
shooter these days. Wolves are be­
ginning to howl on his trail, so it 
seems. Since the tea which the 
A. T. O.’s held for the Beta Pi’s and 
Alpha Kap’s recently, several of the 
men of old Alpha Tau are very 
much interested in Aleta Cornelius.
prefer
Il s Going Plates!
When you step into the Wingate, by 
Dougins, you’ll know why college men 
it. It’s smart—campus-styled and 
the right shoe for college wear. 
And Dougins' exclusive ,GNR¦R5NA 
-toning process will give 
your pair the O2I,1 shade of 
brown that looks best with 
flannels und tweeds.
..so. ?5-50
Custom and 
Normal Trcils, $7.50
1* X T T S BURG II
203 FIFTH AVENUE
*417-10 East Ohio St.. N. S. Frankstown Ave. (E. Liberty)
1202 Market St., Wheeling $8(1 t-.S(!(i Fifth Ave., New Kensington 
‘Open Evenings $Opcn Saturday Evenings
one of the girls
. . . aFGLATTA KCE
If YOU couldn't hear your own voice, you couldn’t regu­
late its volume. If airplane pilots had to use an ordinary 
telephone instrument to talk to the airports, they'd find 
it impossible to hear their own voices above the roar of 
the motors. Therefore, they’d yell into their telephones 
and no one on the ground could understand them.
So telephone engineers have developed a special 
radio-telephone instrument with two earphones and 
special circuits which "feed back” some of their own 
voices into the receivers. There’s no mouthpiece to get 
in the way, either. Instead there’s a throat microphone 
which picks up the pilot's voice with a minimum of 
motor noise. Now the pilot can hear himself talk and 
so he naturally speaks in the normal tone of voice which 
carries best and clearest.
You’ll find that on GNY telephone, the best results 
come from speaking not too loudly, nor in a whisper, 
but iff a normal voice. Speak distinctly with your lips 
one-half inch from the transmitter and you’ll be heard 
without trouble.
K55R pATAE,5NA -GL21F eOA 
a :CF2NAFF GNR t5B2GT eFFA1 ^ D¦’9
If you have the most super-col- 
ossal time of your life at the Guild 
Dance on Friday, you can blame it 
on pretty blue-eyed “Pug” Gup. 
“Pug” (reverse of Gup) has been a 
member of the Women’s Guild 
since her freshman year, and this 
year, because of her outstanding 
participation in the organization, 
was elected president. Through 
her efforts the dance was transfer­
red from Thistle Hall to the Men’s 
Gym to relieve the unhappy con­
gestion of past Guild dances. “Pug” 
is also responsible for the novel 
theme of this year’s dance which is 
patterned after the Medieval Mer­
chant Guilds. (Plug.)
In her junior year “Pug” was 
house president of Laurel Hall as 
well as associate editor of the This­
tle, and last summer worked as a 
college shop adviser in Halle Broth­
ers, Cleveland, from which town 
she hailsr Her friendly disposition 
is one of her endearing qualities 
and one of the reasons that she is 
so well known and so well liked 
in her department and throughout 
the school.
Her appearance is an example of 
what the Costume Economics 
course in Maggie Murph can do for 
a girl. Isabelle, with her short 
dark hair, and short, trim figure,
Sigma Xi Holds 
Science Colloquium
This Thursday at 11:30 A. M., the 
Carnegie Tech Chapter of Sigma 
Xi, science honorary, will spon­
sor a General Science Colloquium. 
The colloquium will be held in the 
faculty lounge and will feature as 
speaker, Dr. F. C. Houghten. ' Dr. 
Houghten, who is the Director of 
Research for the American Society 
of Heating and Ventilating Engi­
neering, has ohosen as his topic, 
“Air Conditioning-Research Affect­
ing its Application.”
Council Minutes
Mr. Reynolds cnllcd the meeting to order 
at 7 P. M. Absent: Messrs. Richardson.
Durbin, Moorman, Kritscher, Wines, and 
Misses Whitney and Beall.
Spring Carnival
Mr. Bosak moved that Council give him 
permission to spend $10 from his Carnival 
budget to buy a Model A Ford, to be used 
for publicity lor Spring Carnival. Motion 
carricd.
Old Business
Student Council reworded the proposed 
addition to the Intramural Board Consti­
tution to read: *'A fraternity man is not
eligible to represent a fraternity team if 
he is other than an active or pledged mem­
ber of the Carnegie chapter of the frater­
nity.” Mr. McBride moved • that this 
change be mnde and that the proposed 
nmendment.be sent buck to the Intramural 
Board for approval. Motion carried.
Mr. Bosak presented the proposed addi­
tion to the By-Laws concerning the Spring 
Carnivnl Chairman’s duties. He moved 
that this addition be made part of the By- 
Laws. Motion carried.
Mr. Hill moved that Student Council give 
$50 to the United Fund. Motion carried.
Miss Fleming reported that the Senior 
Representative to the Margaret Morrison 
Senate is ineligible to hold the position. 
She was referred to the Elections Chairman 
to make arrangements for a special election 
if 0110 Is needed.
Adjournment.
Respectfully submitted,
DOROTHY PIPER.
• MEETING OF DECEMBER 2
Thu meeting was called to order at 7 
P. M. Absent: Messrs. ShoiTncr, Satter­
field. Wines, Frey, and Miss Fleming. 
Social
Mr. Burton moved that Mortar Board 
be given permission to use Thistle Hall 
for a Community Sing on Wednesday, 
December 10. Motion carricd.
Budget
Mr. McBride presented the budget from 
the Scimitars and the Cwcns for the Sopho­
more Hop. They asked for $300 in order 
to get an outside band. Mr. Burton said 
that he would not know until Christmas 
vacation whether or not he can get a band 
at that price that would attract a large 
crowd. Mr. McBride moved that Council 
accept the budget with the understanding 
that they pay less for a local band if they 
cannot get a national band for $300. Mo­
tion carricd.
Adjournment.
Respectfully submitted,
DOROTHY PIPER.
can be noticed at most of the im­
portant school functions.
One of her pet peeves is doing 
tracings of certain classes. This 
summer’s training gave her invalu­
able experience in Merchandising 
which is the branch of Costume 
Economics she plans to enter on 
graduation. Very active on cam­
pus, “Pug” is a member of Mortar 
Board, the highest honor that can 
be bestowed on a Carnegie coed. 
Her hobbies consist of making her 
own clothes and reading, preferably 
James Thurber, but her favorite in­
door sport is being a loyal Gamma.
Winter Fashions 
To Be Modeletl 
By Costume Ecs.
Juniors and seniors of the'Cos­
tume Economics Department will 
present a style show tomorrow, 
which will feature winter fashions, 
and will present novel ideas for 
Christmas styles. At 4:00 o’clock in 
Recreation Hall, M. M., the fashion 
parade will begin. All of the outfits 
have been made in class, each girl 
having draped, designed, and sewn 
the clothes she will model. Outfits 
vary from evening dresses to coats.
Freshmen of the Costume Eco 
nomics Department will hold a tea 
after the style show for the upper­
classmen. This is the department’s 
annual Christmas party for the girls 
of Margaret Morrison and their 
mothers. Costume Economics Club, 
which sponsors the style show, is 
officered by Betty Shanor, ’42, 
President; Dorothy MacChesney, 
’42, Social Chairman; and Evelyn 
Thomas, ’43, Secretary-Treasurer.
When you
s!DiJ
5P 4,515IOGE,F
s!DiJ
—of—
The Bingaman Studio
5808 Forbes Street 
JA. 3050
OUTLINES
341 boulevard of the allies 
Pittsburgh, PennsylvaniaFLYING
TELEPHONE
PROGRAM FOR DECEMBER:
Wednesday, Dec. 10, 8:30 P. M.: William Schuman, out­
standing American composer, will lecture on modern music. 
Mr. Schuman, in the course of his talk, will analyze his “Ameri­
can Festival Overtrure, ” recently played by the Pittsburgh 
symphony, as well as his latest composition, Symphony Number 
Three, which will be played by Koussevitsky and the Boston 
Symphony on their Pittsburgh concert on Saturday. Admis­
sion $1.00, student rate 50c.•Through Dec. 12: An Exhibit of Prints, lithographs,
woodcuts, drawings and etchings by contemporary artists. 
Jewelry by Anni Albers and Alexander Calder.•
Dec. 15 (through Jan. 15): An Exhibit of Industrial De­
sign. The approach to problems of design, as illustrated in the 
displays from the Carnegie Tech Industrial Design Department, 
the School of Design in Chicago, and Black Mountain College.•Outlines is a non-profit organization devoted to the exhibi­
tion and exposition of the contemporary arts. During the year, 
in addition to exhibits, the gallery will sponsor movies, lectures, 
dance, drama and music programs. There is also, at the gallery 
a library of phonograph records and one oi! books. The books 
include modern “experimental literature” and many books on 
art.•
The Gallery Is Open from ten until five daily, from two 
until six on Sundays. Admission to exhibits is twenty-five cents 
(ten cents for students) on week days, free on Sundays. The 
record and book libraries are available at all times during 
exhibition.
o
For further information write or telephone Elizabeth Rock­
well, 341 Boulevard of the Allies. ATlantic 734-1.

---------------------------------------------------

ARRO W SHIRTS
Pause ••• 
Go refreshed
TUESDAY, DECEMBER 9, 1941THE CARNEGIE TARTAN
Intramural Notes
p3TT3A pl.K3TSloo lRN !GIL 
PB2AGRI 0A3:lGo GR V2RT3.T.
ant part of any set up which has a 
definite purpose such as our Intra­
mural has.
Of course, there is always the 
other side to these games and that 
is the defense. From the statements 
made above one might get the idea 
that the defense was lacking. But 
this is not the, case. The losprs in 
‘the opening games hit the hoop for 
scores that would ha /e won many 
of the games of other years. The 
average of the losers’ scores was 
about 18. So the conclusion is 
drawn that if the season continues 
with the same type of playing that 
opened it, this will be the best sea­
son witnessed in the history of this 
organization.
Pikers Win Volley Ball 
As basketball starts, volleyball 
ends. The three winners of the 
leagues were /the PiKA’s, D.'U.’s and 
the Citcom Clan. The Clan knock­
ed off the Forbes Streeters to win 
the runner honors. Then the Pikers 
dumped the Clan to take the fur 
lined loving cup.
High Scorers in Basketball
The highest scorers so far are 
playing in league two. M. Smith 
of Noble Scobell and MacDonald 
both tagged the bucket for twelve 
points. Following close behind are 
Purtall, PiKA; Pearl, Henderson; 
Waneck; Scobell; McClure, Citcom; 
each with ten points. The next 
1 notch is occupied by Bundy, Mc-
fj 'Gill; Smuckler, CSR; Duchene and
it McGinness, PiKA with nine points
j+ieir belts.
Waynesburg Takes 
The Tartans, 54-22FORAFGDSHWC
HOOP SEASON BEGINS 
:Y j5A p,5HGF. tE5O1F qR215OFreshmen Down 
Westingliouse 
39-37, In Opener
Last Friday night Tech opened 
its 1941-42 basketball season in a 
way'that woiild1 appear to the gen­
eral student body that last season 
was being continued this1 year in 
that the team met with a drubbing 
defeat at the hands of Waynesburg 
to the tune of 54-22. But in spite of 
the apparent lack of the stuff that 
counts (scores) the squad showed 
a lot of speed and stamina, which 
is a promising factor for the future 
of the Skibo season.
Even more important than the 
score was-.the fact that this is the 
first game in which the change in 
rules his applied. The two major 
parts of the change are the mod­
ification of the three-second rule 
and the adoption of the free sub­
stitution rule. The modification of 
the three-second rule opens up the 
space behind the foul line to the 
back of the foul circle so that the 
pivot play will again come into use. 
This was one of .the most sensation­
al plays in basketball, but its use 
was made practically impossible 
when the original three-second rule 
went into effect a few years ago. 
With the advent of the change, the 
game will be a more sensational 
combat than it has for the past sev­
eral years.
The free-substitution rule slows 
down the offensive play by making 
substitution permissible whenever 
the ball is dead. This makes it 
possible for a coach to make a sub­
stitution after a field goal has been 
made, thus slowing down the of­
fense of a fast breaking team. This 
cuts out some of the gruelling chaiv 
acteristics of the game. One other 
change in the rules is that the of­
fensive player no longer has the 
advantage in bodily contact and 
free bodily movement laws. Most 
of the other changes are merely 
clarifications of previous rulings.
Much of the Tartans bad basket­
ball must be attributed to the nerv­
ousness of inexperience, because the 
unodthodox wild shots and poor 
ball-handling could be attributed 
to nothing else in a college team’s
playing. With this in mind, we may 
have a good reason to have faith in 
Coach Maxie Hannum’s prediction 
that we will have a better team than 
last year and even win a game.
Spirit seemed to run high in the 
stands at the game on Friday even­
ing, and this is a good. sign. Specta­
tors overflowed the stands so that 
many people were forced to sit 
around the ends of the court and on 
the stage in the gym.
Following is the schedule of the 
games to come. There is a goodly 
portion of the games at home so 
that sports starved Tech may have 
a chance to see some of its own 
games.
Basketball Schedule
Dec. 13—Westminster at home.
Dec. 18—Geneva away.
Jan. 7—Pitt at Stadium.
Jan. 10—Case at home.
Jan. 12—West Virginia at home.
Jan. 17—W. & J. away.
Feb. 3—Thiel away.
Feb. 7—Penn State at home.
Feb. 10—Allegheny away.
Feb. 14—W. & J. at home.
Feb. 17—Pitt at home.
Feb. 21—Geneva at home.
Feb. 23—West Virginia away.
Feb. 28—Thiel at home.
Mar. 4—Penn State away.
Mar. 7—Westinmster away.
The Intramural basketball sea­
son swung into the opening games 
last Thursday. From the scoring 
one might conclude that offensive 
play will be more prominent than 
that of other years. In the past 
most of the scoring was similar to 
that of baseball—that is, in one 
figure. Many games were won by. 
a score of 10 to ’ 8. ' But this' year 
the ledger shows that several of 
the first encounters brought forth 
as high as thirty-eight points. The 
average was about 25. This in­
dicates that the Intramural games 
have blossomed forth with a little 
more basketball and a great deal 
less luck.
There is another fact that is evi­
dent from this scoring. The teams 
must be in better shape. To carry 
on a free scoring game a team must 
be on, its toes all- the time .and play 
for fast breaks'. This is an import-
Football Finalo
With tho blowing of the final whistle after the Pitt game, the 
Tech gridclors closed the 1941 football season. To all of the Skibo 
supporters the Reason has been aiV exceptionally'gloomy one, .only 
one game in the win column and numerous injuries. However, there 
were several bright spots in tho season, holding Notre Dame to 
sixteen points in the rain, and staving oft' several touchdown at­
tempts by the Panthers. Both the team and the coaches should be 
congratulated on their efforts, Doe Baker and his staff for their 
efforts in trying to mould a team despite a great lack of material, 
and the boys on the team for playing their hardest every game. Lou 
Zelenka managed to appear in the final game through the courtesy 
of the U. S. Army, returning from active duty at Indiantown Gap to 
compete against the Panthers. Along with Zelenka, three other 
seniors made their final appearance in Tartan togs. Hank I-Iolets, who 
has played a lot of football in his three years.at Tech, Bill Johnson, 
and John Anderson.
Hoopsters Commence Season
Last Friday in the Tech gym, the basketball squad opened the 
season against their usual opener opponents, Waynesburg, with a 
54-22 defeat. The squad did not look so good but there is some hope 
for their improvement. After all, everyone feels that they can’t do 
any worse than last year. This Saturday, the Westminster team 
makes the trip to Pittsburgh to meet Tech in our second game of the 
season. Again the Titans have a strong offense, having practically 
the same team as last year, and the Tartans will really have to play 
ball to put up a good game. ____________________________________
EVERY
»1 PER PERSON INCLUDING 
MIDNIGHT SUPPER -J.
tfimSMEDICOl
FILTERED J
tSÉÜ SMOKING (
I mint scm(in iNumnM |"ctiioi'iiANi" i.xirdto«!
PaGH s3lH 
sAlGR. ElGoÄ
GENUINE flllERS FOR MEDICO PIPES 
PACKED ONIY IN THIS RED X DIACK DDX
66 Baffle Filter whirl-cools smoke; traps juices, flakes 
and nicotine in pipes, cigarette and cigar holders.
riNK&T UHIAR MONEY CAN 11UY
l '  ..............   MM——JOT
With the 1942 swimming season 
not far off, the Tech Splashers are 
constantly being timed by Coach 
Risedorph to determine who' will 
hold down the various positions. Al­
though nothing definite has been 
decided upon yet as far as the first 
team ip concerned and in fact Isn't 
until the day of the meet, those 
that have been making good time 
in practices' might be mentioned.
Swimming the free style are tho 
Captain of this year’s team, Ted 
Burtis, plus, Galbraith, Carver, 
Turnock, Taber, Church, Volt/,, Wil­
loughby, and Brown. Also swim­
ming the distance event in free style 
will be Carver and Turnock. Those 
that have been doing well in the 
breast stroke are Vajda, Beal, Cully, 
and Fireman. The last of the swim­
ming events, the backstroke, is be­
ing held down by Martin, McCul­
lough, and C. Sarosdy.
The diving assignment this year 
will fall on Bill Brown and Fritz 
Morgan. Brown, who is the pres­
ent Penn-Ohio diving champion, al­
so will be swimming the free style.
Although the team has been 
practicing four times a week this 
year as compared with three as of 
last year, the stop watch hasn’t 
yet shown the good results that can 
rightfully be expected. Something 
of interest, however, and also of 
great importance in the future is 
the fact that the team is composed 
almost entirely of Sophomores and 
Juniors. This should indicate that 
the team will be highly successful in’ 
years to come.
The schedule for this season is: 
Swimming Schedule
Jan. 12—Grove City at home.
Feb. 6—Penn State at home.
Feb. 11—Slippery Hock at home.
Feb. 13—Indiana Teachers at 
home.
Feb. 20—Kent State away.
Feb. 21—Allegheny away.
Feb. 25—Westminster away.
Feb. 27—Western Reserve away.
Feb. 28—Case away.
Mar. 4—W. & J. at home.
Mar. 7—Penn - Ohio Champion­
ships at Carnegie.
Mar. 13-14 — ECS A Champion­
ships at Rutgers.
BE POPULAR!
These Arthur Murray 
Dance Studios Offer
Special Holiday Rates to Students
• Guarantee yourself (lie best holiday of your 
life by brushing up on your dancing as soon as 
you come home from school! You’ll enjoy 
learning the latest Rumba and Fox Trot. In 
just a few hours you’ll surprise your partners 
with the thrilling new steps. Gain poise and kw 
confidence. Call at the Studios and ask about 
special rates for college students. Don’t wait 
until the last minute. ^
HEY
HEADING FOR HOME?
Start right and easy! Send your 
luggage round-trip by trusty, low- 
cost Railway Express, and take 
your train with peace of mind.We 
pick-up and deliver, remember, 
at no extra charge within our reg­
ular vehicle limits in all cities and 
principal towns. You merely phoneARTHUR MURRAY
One look at the Arrow Sussex shirt tells you why it’s 
a “must” for the college man’s wardrobe. Sussex is a 
handsome shirt with the new lower neckband and 
the wide-spread collar that is flattering and comfort­
able for any wearer. In whites, solids, or stripes. Trim­
ly tailored to fit the torso and Sanforized-sJinjuk (fab­
ric. shrinkage less than 1%). Get some today, 82 up.
IlOSTON . . 
CHICAGO . 
CLEVEIAND . 
DETItOIT . . 
RAST OIIANGE 
MILWAUKEE
.... 20f Hoyliiton St. 
Hotel Drnlco & 07 B. Jnoltnnu
....................Hotel Htntlor
....................Holut Slntler
, . 41 Ilrlok Church Pinza 
. *....................Hotul Autor
MINNEAPOLIS .... Hotel Nluollet' 
NEW YORIC . 11 E. Circi St. A (11)0 filli Avo.. 
PHILADELPHIA . . . 1818 Walnut St. 
riTTSDUItail . . . Hotel Wllllnm Penn 
HT. liOUIH .... 7742 Fòrnytlio Blvd. 
WASHINGTON, 1). C.. 1101 Conn. Ave. N.W.
YOUR CHOICE’OF A BANK 
MAY BE THE BEGINNING 
OF A LONG AND USEFUL
ASSOCIATION
emmgk -qeW7“empqmt
MELLON 
NATIONAL BANK
MEMDER FEDERAI. DEPOOIT 
INSURANCE CORPORATIONDowntown440 Wood Street
eppqbpagbu
R. O. T. C. STUDENTS
GO TO OAKLAND'S ONLY
3 Hour c~
2-Piece Uniforms
Beautifully Cleaned Ofc/C and Reshaped....................
SHIRTS I f)
BEAUTIFULLY I / P
LAUNDERED AND I /_¦ 
HAND FINISHED
No Cramming Necessary!
For swell flavor and 
real chewing fun-the 
answer is delicious 
Wrigley’s Spearmint Gum
SUITSMEN’SOVEItCOATS U %
3GHECF eIAN1F ty2L5 aNN
fUE4W
SERVICE CO
CLEANERS & LAUNDERERS 
3619 Forbes Street 
SChenley 4313 
CALL AND DELIVERY
BOTTLED UNDER AUTHORITY OF THE COCA-COLA COMPANY BY
COCA-COLA BOTTLING COMPANY, PITTSBURGH, PA

---------------------------------------------------

THE CARjîBGiE TARTA«TUESDAY, DECEMBER 9, 1941
Evening 
School 
Section of 
Tartan
General News 
Editorial Comment 
Fraternal Organizations
Appearing 
In This 
Week’s 
Issue
Engineers’ Xmas Ball 
Student Council Minutes 
Special Features
WGIoGT 5NNGTG2R 
5GN. 0lAKGRjP3HGbF2AHlo ElRB3 
0olRR3N pY 4RIGR33A.
Student Council MinutesCouncil GetsUnmeritedCriticism
Minutes qf-j the regular me'eting 
of the Evening Student Council 
held Sunday, November 2, 1941 in 
¦the New Carnegie Union, •£. I. T;
President Pettigrew called the 
meeting to order at 3:00 P. M. All 
members were present with the ex­
ception of Mr. Amuso, who arriv­
ed later.
Since this was the first meet­
ing of the new council, the by-laws 
were read by President Pettigrew. .
Before the meeting, the Business 
Manager of the “Carnegie Tartan” 
spoke to council about increasing 
the apporpriation for the “Plaid” 
to the “Tartan.” However, since 
the expenses for the paper are now 
so high, it was suggested that the 
appropriation be kept to a min­
imum. A bargaining committee 
consisting of Mr. Pettigrew, Mi*. 
Miller, and Mr. Lehren was ap­
pointed to meet with the business 
staff of the “Tartan” to discuss the 
increase. It was also voted to dis­
tribute the papers by placing them 
in the halls of the various buildings 
on a pro-rated basis for several 
nights a week for at least a se­
mester, instead of mailing them as 
previously. The balloting was 9 
to 3. This action was taken in 
order to ensure council’s meeting 
its budget for the first semester.
At this meeting, the additional. 
officers of Evening Student Council 
were elected. They were.
Mr. Frank Amuso, Engineering— 
Vice resident.
Miss Virginia Anderson, Voca­
tional—Secretary.
Mr. Elmer Phillips, Arts—Treas­
urer.
Mr. Robert Metcalfe, Arts—As­
sistant Social Chairman.
1 sL3 eAGB3 2O lNHG..G2R T2 NlRB3. 
al.y’.3T lT£%o"””y e3A B2Ceo3-’b XeoC. 
jF3N3Alo Tl\» ’(-GsL3,d(BL3BKGRI d, eAGB3 
al. .3T’ lT’»l _ OolT Ta3RTY B3RT.y’ Ä
Permission was given by Council 
to. Nu Sigma Alpha Fraternity to 
postpone their dance, which was 
to be held October 18, to a later 
date. Permission was also granted 
Phi Nu Fraternity to postpone their 
dance from November 29 to Decem­
ber 6.
Budgets were read for the Fine 
Arts Dance to be held. November 
8, and the Council Thanksgiving 
Recess Dance on November 22.
Vouchers were drawn and checks 
approved for bills incurred since 
the beginning Council adjourned at 
7:00 P. M.
Edited and approved,
D. W. PETTIGREW, JR., 
President Evening School Council.
The parking problem on the Car­
negie Tech Campus is always a vex­
ing one and anything which tends 
to ameliorate the difficulty is cer­
tainly appreciated by the driv­
ing students. An item worth not­
ing is the placing of a light at the 
entrance to the Parking Lot on 
Margaret Morrison Street. This lot 
has been available for parking pur­
poses for several . years and al­
though the entrance has been on 
Margaret Morrison Street, and still 
is, the particular location has been 
changed causing some confusion.
At the time classes resumed this 
fall the usual entrance had been 
closed up by planting a hedge and 
a driveway had been opened up 
next to the practice house. In the 
dark it was a little difficult to see 
the entrance, but with a new light 
installed, it should not present any 
problem to car drivers. This .addi­
tion is surely hailed with apprecia­
tion.
While on the subject of park­
ing, it would not be amiss to call 
students’ attention to the manner 
of parking cars in this particular 
lot. It would seem from the helter 
skelter positions of parked cars that 
there was no system employed. A 
little reflection should bring home 
the necessity for careful parking 
if one is to derive the fullest bene­
fit from the facilities offered by 
the administration at Carnegie 
Tech.
If the students will park in rows 
and allow space between each car, 
both to the sides and back and 
front, no difficulty will be en­
countered. Of course, if it were 
possible to have the parking lot 
staked off in rows, this would be 
ideal, but lacking this, students can 
assist each other by using judg­
ment and giving a little considera­
tion to the other fellow. Too often 
it has been necessary for drivers 
to hang around one and two hours 
waiting for owners of cars to re­
turn to the lot in order to obtain a 
passage way from the parking lot. 
Let’s see what can be done to help 
out.
In the November 18 issue of . the 
Carnegie Tartan, and article was 
printed on. the United Fund Drive 
in- which the statement appeared 
“Evening School averages wfere low, 
since all students were not ap­
proached.”
The Plaid wishes to correct this 
statement with the report that not 
only was every night school stu­
dent approached for a contribution 
•but that this year was the first that 
every night school class was con­
tacted directly by representatives 
from Student Council. The Even­
ing School is to be commended for 
their effort to meet their quota for 
the Drive—some of the students 
having contributed for a second 
time to the Night School after con­
tributing a day or part of a day’s 
wages at their place of employment.
Don Palmer’s Band 
Secured for Dance 
Saturday, December 13
Nexl>' Saturddy evening, Decem­
ber 13, the Evening College of En­
gineering will go “all out” to make 
their annual Christmas Dance in 
Thistle Hall a success.
For your dancing enjoyment, the 
officers have secured Don Palmer 
and his band. This group has been 
well received on all their past cam­
pus appearances. They feature a 
smooth style of music with enough 
'* to keep the evening mov- 
a fast pace.
to vide the correct Holiday 
j.:.....J..-iere the decorating commit­
tee has lined up something extra 
special—as a matter of fact, I have 
heard (from a very good source) 
that the Engineers have hired two 
camouflage experts from the army. 
Military experts or not, there will 
be one object which will make you 
sure , you’re at a Tech dance—the 
old crystal ball. It will be in its 
usual place, doing its usual good 
job. If some government agency 
doesn’t conscript that ball for a tar­
get or landing beacon or somepin’ 
I’m afraid your children and chil­
dren’s children will be dancing un­
der its glittering roundness.
In keeping with their “all out” 
policy for this dance the Engineer­
ing Officers have decided to make 
this a semi-formal dance. So girls 
here is your chance to wear that 
“long glittering” creation that you 
saved just for the holiday season, 
Or to impress that certain person. 
If you haven’t got one, perhaps this 
will be a good excuse to get Santa 
to come a little early.
To help cover the cost of turning 
the crystal ball a small admission 
fee of $1.10, tax paid, will be col­
lected from all students who are 
not members of the College of En­
gineering:. As a reward for their 
good marks in their last exams, all 
engineers will be admitted free if 
they have their registration cards. 
In return for your hard earned dol­
lar, boys, the girls will receive a 
beautiful corsage. Oh well, what’s 
the difference, Christina? only 
comes once a year.
A Plea For 
Student’s Rights
There is a problem which is 
looming quite large on the campus 
and if some way out is not found 
it will tend to handicap the whole 
activities program of the evening 
students and the Evening Student 
Council. The problem is presented 
through the conflict and interfer­
ence which is developing by rea­
son of the simultaneous use of the 
men’s gymnasium by different 
groups. The same condition per­
tains at times with respect to This­
tle Hall.
It may not be the case, but from 
all indications, it would seem that 
the evening students are being dis­
criminated against, even though 
they bulk the largest group on the 
campus. The evening students are 
supposed to have equal rights, at 
least this assurance was given to 
the evening students on several oc­
casions, and more specifically when 
the last increment in the tuition 
fees was put into effect.
Equal Rights Needed
With the payment of tuition fees 
and matriculation, the evening stu­
dents, if they have equal rights,' 
should have reasonable access to all 
the facilities of the campus and this 
should include by inference the use 
of the Gymnasium and Thistle Hall 
—more particularly used by the stu­
dent health programs. Upon in­
spection, what do we find—a full 
schedule of every open time for 
intra-mural activities for the day 
students and no thought given to 
the needs of the evening students.
The evening students have a need 
for some recreational activities, for 
goodness knows they do sacrifice a 
great deal to attend evening ses­
sions. The dances which are sched­
uled from time to time in their 
social calendar are designed to 
meet this need and it does seem a 
bit hoggish, to say the least, for 
one group to usurp all the facilities 
of the gymnasium, for basketball 
and other intra-mural sports. Sup­
pose for instance, the evening stu­
dents were to exercise their rights, 
which they have been assured they 
have, and were to organize some in­
tra-mural games; where would they 
go for their space to play—cer­
tainly not oh the floor of the Gym­
nasium because there was no room, 
perhaps on the roof, but.
Time Limited
It is not conducive to satisfactory 
work to try to decorate the men’s 
gymnasium on a Saturday afternoon 
when several games are in progress 
in the basketball courts. It is very 
essential that some decorative 
scheme be introduced in the gym­
nasium previous to holding a dance, 
and consequently the lull use of 
the floor is needed. It is very dis­
couraging to come out on a Satur­
day afternoon to help with decora­
tions and then have them punctur­
ed or spoiled by having a basketball 
descend from the ceiling. When 
day students need to prepare for a 
dance in this same hall, and place 
decorations, it Is uncommon for 
them to use the whole week for the 
purpose of putting up the decora-
p,A 3GONAI2A 4TG2R
Page edited by Evening School 
Students of Carnegie Institute of 
Technology. All views or opin­
ions expressed in editorial column 
are not necessarily endorsed by the 
Editorial Board of the Day School 
Staff.
Editor 
James H. Miller 
News Editor 
Adeline King 
Associntc Editors 
Anna June Davidson 
G. William Hurtt 
Nancy E. Lewis 
Staff
C. M. Christ John Hopkins
Lawrence Coates Robert C. King
Chas. Frost . Stephen Marcinizyn
Harry Gray David W. Pettigrew
Harold G. Hall Ronald ShofT
Joe Haughney Emmett Shutes
Frank J. Young Charles Miller
Swim in the Winter
Here we are back' with the old 
complaint about the swimming 
pool’s not being patronized enough 
by the Evening students. Wednes­
day nights, there is still mixed 
swimming, and the fee for admis­
sion is still the same—ye old reg­
istration card only, and that is all. 
The hours are still the same too— 
6:30 to 10:45, which is plenty of 
time to drop over after class for 
that refreshing dip before calling 
it a night.
Come on down and have a swim 
next Wednesday. If you once get 
started, we bet a nickel thatrs all 
you’ll need to make you a weekly 
visitor.
pCNA 2N 1,A 3,O2F1HGF tE2O21
It’s Chesterfield Pleasure Time 
Enjoy the music that everybody likes 
N. B. C. Stations
lions. When one contrasts this 
with the plea of the evening stu­
dents for a Saturday afternoon 
only, it must be admitted their re­
quest is not unreasonable.
Perhaps the reason for these con­
flicts may be assigned to the lack 
of coordination of the day and 
evening activities schedules. It cer­
tainly appears to be reasonable to 
assume that some consideration 
should be given to the evening- stu­
dents and their needs. To the many 
complaints and protests made by 
the evening groups on these con­
flicts, the replies are always evasive 
and the blame laid to other de­
partments—or we didn’t reserve the 
gymnasium and the day group did. 
How in the world could we be ex­
pected to decorate the Gymnasium 
for a dance without having its use 
in the afternoon of the evening 
when the dance is to be held? Sure­
ly we are not expected to be ma­
gicians and perform the impossi­
ble. The rental of the gymnasium 
for a dance should always imply the 
use in the afternoon for decoration.
A remedy could be found for this 
very vexing question since more 
involved ones have been solved'.. It 
is suggested that, and this sugges­
tion includes all parties concerned, 
more cooperation be striven for- in 
making up and approving schedules 
for the use of any and all facilities 
on the campus which have to: do 
with the extra-curricular activities. 
The parties concerned, those who1 
have authority to grant permission, 
those who schedule, and those, who 
use, should confer when an event 
is scheduled and check to see that 
there is no conflict. Our plea is, not 
unreasonable — could we not have 
the use of the gymnasium on a Sat­
urday afternoon when a dance is 
scheduled for the evening?
Annual Dinner Dance
Members of Nu Sigma Alpha 
Fraternity are making plans for 
thoir annual anniversary dinner 
dance to be hold in the South Park 
Lodne. Saturday evening, Decem- 
All members and their 
M i are. urged to come out and 
i an evening of\ dancing, good 
ship, and entertainment.
Vy Py EDMÄM
PRINTE R
6470 Monitor St. HA. 0193
this is your old friend
For Your Trip Home at Christmas
Even if you don't have a return portion of a 
College Special Reduced Fare ticket. .. you 
can go home by train on a definite schedule, 
safely and economically. Fares are low!
JLhis time I’m coming to you 
With a timely shopping tip . .
HERE’S HOW YOU, TOO, CAN TRAVEL ON_L/rop in at your tobacco store
Take a look at the handsome way
Your Christinas Chesterfields are packed.COLLEGE SPECIAL
iou never saw the like 
Of these swell gifts ...
Big ten package cartons 
Cartons holding four tins of 50 
And brand new this year 
Special greeting cartons 
Holding just three packs.
TRtisyear It’s Chesterfield 
For more pleasure than 
Anything else you can buy 
For the money.
ws/ermWJsStudents and teachers travel from and to their homes at great 
savings on these College Special tickets. To make this saving, 
all you have to do is purchase one from your hometown rail­
road ticket agent before returning from the Christmas holi­
days. The cost is amazingly low—liberal return limits fit your 
school program —you can make stop-overs, too! There are 
reduced round trip Pullman rates, also. When Spring holidays 
como you can use the return coupon to travel home again or 
use it at closo of school.
MILK SHAKES 
BIG ICE CREAM 
CONESMilder*'*' 
Better-Tasting 
...that’s why
KLONDIKES 
TASTY LUNCHES
RLTHlFaCFnIt is oxpoctod that on account of a hoavy volumo of 
Military furlough travol, as well a* civilian holiday traffic, passonger 
travol during tho forthcoming Christmas-Now Year's Holiday poriod 
will bo oxtremoly heavy this yoar. If it can possibly bo arranged for 
students to loavo school Dacombar 17th or baforo and return to 
school January 7th or later, it is urged they do so. It will also bo 
found oasiur to make reservations and moro comfortable to travol 
on or boforo Docomber 17, 1941, and on or after January 7, 1942.
Three Stores in the 
College District
5808 Forbes St.. Squirrel Hill 
3714 Forbes Street, OaklandBe Thrifty—with Safety—Travel by Train 
ASSOCIATED EASTERN RAILROADSMAIN PLANT:
3880 Boulevard of the Allies
Copyright 1941. 
Liccrrr & Mve&s 
103,II0 Co.
