Vol. 69, No. 43C-MUFRIDAY, APRIL 3, 1970
C-MU Hosts Conferences
Teach-In Opens With March
Photo by Jerry Siskind 
Students set up mock environments for the Environmental Teach-In.
Resistance Plans Action
This weekend (April 3-51 there will be a conference held here, 
drawing participants from the eastern U.S. as well as native Pitts­
burghers. The theme of the conference is to be Resistance Today—Al­
ternatives Tomorrow.-’ The timing for this conference and the Environ­
mental Teach-Ins were arranged with the idea that the presence of one 
would benefit that of the other. There are. therefore, no major time 
conflicts between the two events. It is hoped that both conferences will 
be followed by appropriate action rather than the usual return to the 
status quo. The “Resistance Today—Alternatives Tomorrow” confer­
ence will make use of rooms in Doherty, Baker-Porter. GSIA and Ski- 
bo Halls, as well as the gym.
The Conference begins Friday night (April 3) in the C-MU gym 
with a speech by Staughton Lvnd on the ties between continued resis­
tance and building alternatives.
On Saturday morning there will be workshops, panels and speech­
es on student rights, conflicts among students, black survival in the 
public schools, the tracking system, the political significance of new 
schools, nonviolent organizing in the high schools, corporate control, 
woman’s liberation, universities, blacks and minorities, and draft re­
sistance.
The afternoon program will include discussions of school systems. 
American corporations, war tax resistance, ecology action, drugs as 
resistance, setting up a movement press.
Saturday night films will be shown, including Lincoln Center, Rich­
mond Oil Strike, People's Park, ROTC and High School Rising.
Sunday morning will continue the panel format, with workshops 
on various anti-corporate projects around the country. Sessions Sun­
day afternoon will center around the upcoming Gulf Oil stockholder's 
meeting in Pittsburgh April 28. Phill Ochs will perform in concert 
Sunday evening.
All during the conference registration, information and literature 
tables will be positioned in Skibo lobby.
Among the speakers, panelists and workshop leaders will be Stan­
ley Aronowitz (Guardian), Jim Wessner. Evan Stark (Honneywell 
Project in Minneapolis). Joanne Malone (D. C. Nine). Bob Freeston 
(Chicago Area Draft Resistance), Ed Carpenter (Harlem Prep), Alan 
Berube (Ecology Action Boston), James Bevel (Southern Christian 
Leadership Conference), and others from such groups as Women’s 
Kadical Action Project. School of Living. National Action Project on 
the Military-Industrial Complex. Pittsburgh Women's Liberation. War 
Tax Resistance, RISC, RAP and others.
Further information about the conference can be obtained from 
the Pittsburgh Resistance. 621-3337.
Tartan Staff Meeting 
Tuesday, April 7 
7:30 p.m. In The Tartan Office
by Chuck Daly
The Pittsburgh Environmental Teach-In offi­
cially opened its four day program of ecological 
conferences with a rally and march from Schenlev 
Park to Duquesne University at 10 a.m. Thursday. 
Although the size of the march was hardly compara­
ble to that of any other major Pittsburgh demon­
stration. the enthusiasm and diversity of age ex­
hibited in the group demonstrated the general con­
cern of area residents for the environment.
The program began with a folk concert by Don 
McClean. As the concert stimulated the interest of 
passers-by and the sun emerged from behind the 
clouds to warm the brisk morning air. the group be­
gan to swell and enthusiasm began to build until the 
long walk finally began.
Led by the C-MU Pipers and patrolled by the city 
police, the march proceeded at a rapid pace, al­
though several of the marchers stopped frequently 
to pick up litter along the route of the walk. By the 
end of the march several bushels of garbage had 
been gathered.
Upon reaching the Duquesne campus, the 
marchers were informed that City Council was at 
that time holding hearings on the relocation of some 
1.800 families caused by the construction of Inter­
state Route 79 in the East Street Valiev. It was then
decided to assemble a group of about 100 people to 
proceed to the City-County building to show sup­
port for those people being moved out by the ex­
pressway. When this group reached the Council 
Chamber, about half were admitted to the Chamber 
while the others assumed seats on the floor of the 
lobby. These unexpected visitors conducted a peace­
ful demonstration of backing for the dispossessed 
citizens. A surprise visitor to the lobby was Mayor 
Peter Flaherty. After surveying the situation Mayor 
Flaherty complimented the sitters on their good be­
havior and concern and soon left without much no­
tice.
The conferences at Duquesne were well sub­
scribed to throughout the afternoon. They offered 
representatives from industry, government, pri­
vate groups, and individual concerned citizens.
Also popular on Thursday were the domes lo­
cated on the C-MU mall. These presented visual 
demonstrations of varying degrees of environmen­
tal purity. Both the conferences and the dome dis­
plays will continue until Saturday evening.
On Friday the originator of the National Teach- 
In concept. Senator Gaylord Nelson, will appear 
along with other notable speakers. Schedules for the 
four day program are available at the Y office and 
at Skibo Information Desk.
Spring Carnival Schedule Set
THURSDAY, April 16—
4:30 P.M.—Midway Opens. Booth Judging 
4:30 P.M.—Buggy Design Judging in Gym 
8:30 P.M.—Queen Presentation and Fireworks 
in the Stadium 
12:00 Midnight—Midway Closes
FRIDAY, APRIL 17—
9:00 A.M.—Sweepstakes 
12:00 Noon—Midway Opens 
12:30 P.M.—Picnic and Call Day on the Cut 
3:00 P.M.—Sorority Relays and Faculty Egg 
Toss
8:30 P.M.—Concert with the Chambers Broth­
ers at Syria Mosque 
9:00 P.M.—Midway Closes
SATURDAY, APRIL 18—
10:00 A.M.—Sweepstakes 
1:00 P.M.—Alumni Football Game at Stadium 
3:00 P.M.—Plank Joust on Old Kappa Sig Lawn 
6:30 P.M.—Movies (The Dutchman and short 
subjects) in Wherret Room, running con- 
tinously until 12 p.m. Sponsored by Spirit 
8:00 P.M.—Midway Closes 
9:00 P.M.—Da nee at Skibo
12 :00 Midnight—Trophy Presentation
Cost of tickets will be $4.50/person. Since the 
concert is being sponsored by an outside promoter, 
tickets will be sold off campus for $6/person. 
Buy your tickets early because a sell-out is anti- 
pated with the outside sales. Tickets are now on 
sale at the Activities Office. 103 Skibo..
SCHOLARSHIP...............
Three awards will be made in the amounts of $250, $150 and $100, respectively. Any 
woman student in the C-MUHo class who is majoring in government, political science, economics or 
history or preparing to teach one of these subjects may apply. She must have a good scholastic 
standing; must be reasonably active in student activities; and must possess a Democratic fam­
ily background or be an active participant in the affairs of the Democratic Party.
Applications which must be postmarked on or before April 26, 1970, may be obtained 
by writing to:
The Florence Dornblasser Memorial Scholarship Committee 
c/o The Pennsylvania Federation of Democratic Women, Inc.
510 North Third Street, Harrisburg, Pa. 17101
SCHOLARSHIP...............
Application blanks for the PITTSBURGH WOMEN'S CLAN SCHOLARSHIP are now avail­
able in the Financial Aid Office. Any JUNIOR WOMAN in good standing is eligible to apply for 
this scholarship, which is based on good scholastic standing, personality and activities. Appli­
cants must also submit a statement of why they think they are qualified for the award.
Completed applications and statements are due in the Financial Aid Office, 210 Warner 
Hall by Friday, April 3.
Interviews will be conducted for women students in Margaret Morrison by Mrs. Martha 
Wayman, engineering and science students by Dr. L. Campbell, and fine arts by Miss Ruth Eb- 
kin. All interviews will be held on SATURDAY, APRIL 11, IN MOREWOOD GARDENS. An appoint­
ment will be arranged by the Financial Aid Office when the application is submitted.

---------------------------------------------------

EDITORIAL
Both a diversity of distribution and mastery of a particular 
subject are necessary in designing a rational and successful 
liberal arts program.
Unlike an engineering curriculum, a liberal arts program 
is difficult to define. An engineering major must have a curri­
culum prescribed by the college. In the pursuit of an education 
in humanities, on the other hand, a student can and should take 
courses suited to his own particular needs and interests as well 
as courses which lie outside his major field but are important 
and hold potential if not immediate interest.
In recent discussions of the sophomore program in the 
H&SS School, a debate has revolved around the question of 
whether there should be complete freedom in course selection, 
or whether a guideline program with certain required courses 
be instituted.
After listening to both positions, we have arrived at a third 
proposal—that of a dsitribution system. We agree that students 
should not complete four years of college having taken courses 
in only one or two areas. A student should spread his courses to 
guarantee wide exposure to many ideas and ways of thinking. 
On the other hand, we think students should be permitted to 
choose courses within the particular area accroding to content 
and professor.
Therefore, in terms of an entire four year program, we 
recommend the following:
1. An educate^ man must be able to express himself in his 
own language, in :n and in writing. Words are the basic tools 
of thought. Stude’its will be required to take a composition 
course which will involve the submittal of papers for criticism 
of clarity of expression.
In addition, at least one course will be required in English 
literature. A student cannot fully understand the possibilities of 
language unless he can appreciate its use by its masters.
2. An under t>. ding of historical perspectives and methods 
of analysis is also necessary if one is to comprehend his own 
and foreign lands. In order to achieve a perspective on our own 
times, we must study civilizations of the past. One course will 
be requird in the history of art, music, philosophy, religion, or 
general periods and themes of the past or recent times.
3. Without an understanding of mathematics, it is difficult 
today to consider oneself educated. Not every subject requires 
the same use of math, and the most useful course may not be 
found in the math department. A student will be required to take 
one course in either the administration sciences, economics, 
science, psychology, or statistics, or any other field which of­
fers instruction and practice in mathematic methods.
4. Flly, to understand his fellow human beings, students 
should be acquainted with at least one of the social sciences. 
Like the natural sciences, these subjects rely on math, but the 
subject matter here is people, not things. Students should have 
some understanding of what hat been and is to be learned about 
mankind as individuals, and as a community.
If a student completes these requirements his freshman 
year, he may in the future be free to design his own program ac- 
crding to the requirements of his chosen major.
Concerning the immediate problem of the sophomore year, 
the course taken this year by the freshmen should be checked off 
against these outlines and the particular distribution require­
ments should be considered fulfilled. Those areas left untouch­
ed must be completed by graduation.
The wise student will, in addition to these requirements, 
become familiar with foreign languages, ancient history, the 
natural sciences, and the peoples of Europe, Asia and Africa.
We are confident we will achieve more by the power of sug­
gestion than by the iron hand of authority. We must use the 
knowledge we have gained, the mistakes and successes we have 
made, to guide future students in developing their own program. 
Deans, counselors and faculty advisors should be readily avail­
able, not to outline a specific set of courses, but to make sure 
that the student is getting the most advice possible to plan an 
effective program.
The course selected must depend on an individual’s needs 
and goals, according to a reasoned plan of study in which none 
of the above guidelines are ignored.TOR ION
Publishea every Tuesday and Friday
Editorial and Business Offices—Skibo 103 
Carnegie-Mellon University, Pittsburgh, Pa. 15213—Telephone: 682-4557
ERICA BORDEN, Editor-in-Chief 
Associate Editor Jenifer Digby
Business Manager............................................................................... Sue Cattano
Managing Editor Wayne Barron
News Editor ........................................................................... Jamie Edlin
Features Editor.............................................................................. Chuck Daly
f ports Editors................................................................Alan Letxt and Larry Brean
Pag« 2—THE TARTAN—Friday, April 3, 1970Students Want Voice In H & SS
Editor. The Tartan:
In this new H&SS College, 
where the invigorating but diffi­
cult challenge is to decide ’ which 
experiment to try next.” it's been 
an interesting experiment in it­
self for all of us trying to devise 
wavs to help Dean Steinberg over­
come his fervor for debate (it 
borders on the sexual) so that he 
might begin to understand what's 
coming down.
We've been rebuffed at every 
turn. For the first six months of 
this school year we had no idea 
who Dean Steinberg was or where 
he was to be found, except that 
he was the guy who stood up on 
Oct. 3 to tell us that we couldn't 
have the changes we (students 
and faculty alike) wanted because 
the Board of Trustees wanted this 
college to be innovative and not 
like all the others.
So we stayed clear of Steinberg 
i like the father you avoid when 
he's in an ugly mood) and went to 
Dean Hayes. His door was always 
open and he would listen to any­
one. He was all in favor of stu­
dents expressing themselves.
working for change, etc. He was 
all in favor of letting us push for 
elimination of requirements, rep­
resentation in high places. powrer 
to have a say in the hiring and fir­
ing of teachers. When anyone had 
a complaint, they went to him. His 
office was as crowded as a train 
terminal. He. more than anyone 
else (except the students), knows 
what a failure this year has been.
So it was strange and disturb­
ing when he argued strongly 
against letting more than two new 
college students to sit in on an im­
portant College Council meeting 
(of over 20 deans, heads of de­
partments. faculty members and 
other fortunates) at which their 
no-requirement proposal would be 
discussed. We even dared to hope 
we might get a decision from 
them, with spring registration 
only a month away. Instead, the 
waiting students were not allowed 
in. and the Council boldly called 
for a meeting to set up a meeting 
to discuss the philosophical issues 
involved. Sound like a stall?
Perhaps right now we are pow­
erless to prevent the administra­
tion from firing in front of our 
eves teachers like Burbridge. 
Myers. Hastie. Pearne. It is no 
coincidence that they are among 
the most popular, the most infor­
mal. educationally-radical teach­
ers in this college. Perhaps spend­
ing time with students and work­
ing on their courses left them 
without time to do their thesis or 
publish articles in magazines. 
And so they are passing from Car­
negie-Mellon University, and we 
are not yet at the level where we 
can back them in any meaningful 
way. But don't worry — afew hun­
dred more of us will be here next 
year.
As for this year, we intend to 
make certain that requirements 
are abolished, and we intend to 
achieve some decision-making 
power in our college, preferably 
inside the system, but outside it 
if necessary.
Do people know how strongly we 
feel about this? Strongly enough 
to work for it—our porposals in 
elude our pledge to help work on 
the creation of new courses—but 
strongly enough to fight for it also.
Wanetik Comments On Young's Action
Editor. The Tartan:
It is extremely sad to see that conditions do not improve with the passage of time at Carnegie Teach. 
I recently learned of the resignation of Chief Young from the Security Department. His loos is immeasur­
able. but bravo to him for finally leaving the bloody fools in Warner Hall to their own devices.
For as many years as I was associated with Tech. I knew the officers of the Security Department and 
their chief intimately. The force is composed of men who are amiable and well suited for campus work, with 
no little credit to Chief Young. Once in a while, to be sure, a man would get on the force who thought he was 
Dick Tracy. But when he realized that neither the chief nor the men on the force felt that traditional city po­
lice methods applied to a campus 
enivronment. that man either 
quit or changed—which is not to 
say that the force is a bunch of 
Keystone Cops. Hardly that. But 
all of the men with whom I was 
acquainted understood quite well 
the role of a campus security 
force.
A while back, amid cries from 
the more fuzzy thinkers on cam­
pus. some administration person 
or other decided that guns were 
bad things and should not be car­
ried on campus during daylight 
hours. Well. I for one would not 
expect any man to do anything I 
would not do. And from my limit­
ed experience with police work. I 
would not ask any man to patrol 
any area adjacent to a crowded
section of the city and open to at­
tack from many directions with 
only a can of smellum. Surely, 
though, if an individual officer 
felt that he was capable of patrol­
ling without the aid of a weapon.
I would permit him to do so. The 
man behind the gun may be a stup­
id son of a bitch. In that case, he 
should not be a cop. But the men 
on the security force are not of 
that ilk. They have all been more 
adequately trained in the use of 
firearms. Most of them have been 
officers on police forces other 
than this one. so they have experi­
ence. And all of them, to my know­
ledge. have the common sense to 
know the value of firearms as well 
as their limits.
Chief Young once said, it is true 
that in a case of armed robbery, 
he has instructed his men not to 
shoot unless a clear field were 
available. To quote him from sev­
eral years back. "None of my men 
is Wyatt Earp.” But that does not 
mean that situations can and will 
arise where the only available 
reasonable means of protection is 
a revolver. s
Chief Young brought the Secur­
ity Department from a stage 
where the force deserved the 
name Rent-a-Cops. Inc.. to a well 
trained group of men dedicated 
to the students and campus at 
large. The only reason I can think 
of for his staying on so long in the 
face of the unadulterated shit 
thrown upon him and his men by 
the boobs who run you all is dedi­
cation. Pure dedication.
Several years back, when I was 
( Continued on lJage 3)
Handbook Not Objective
Editor. The Tartan:
I am disappointed to discover that the Birth Control Handbook” 
is not an objective booklet of information about preventing pregnancy, 
but an article of propaganda. It is indeed a paradox that authors of a 
booklet that describes various methods of birth control, and their ad­
vantages, disadvantages, rate of effectiveness, etc.. should chastise 
those nations which direct "considerable attention” to the same sub­
ject. The introduction and column entitled "The IUD and Genocide 
were most objectionable. It is unfortuane that those who were respon­
sible for dispensing the Handbooks” did not make it clear that these 
were not merely objective sources of information about preventing 
pregnancy.
Mrs. Carol Hickman. H&SS, ’70
Fraternities Still Like Grads
Editor. The Tartan:
Since the funds supporting the intramural program came out of my 
tuition as well as undergraduate tuition. I must protest the blatant dis­
crimination shown by the IM Board when they decided to exclude grad­
uate students from participation in serious IM sports. I suspect that 
since graduate teams have been doing well in IM sports, the fraterni­
ties would like to maksthemselves look better by eliminating some of 
the competition. After all. who wants to lose to a bunch of "old men”?
If the purpose of IM sports are to make the fraternities look good, 
then let them pay for them.
Carter Allen. Graduate Student Representative 
to Student Senate Executive Council
(A recent article in the Tartan Sports Section's IM Review reported a 
motion passed by the IM Board. The motion stated that Grad students can 
compete on the SAME TEAMS as undergrads when no IM points are in­
volved (i.e., a minor sport). In all other IM sports, Grad teams will continue 
to compete against undergrads as in the past with little blatant discrim­
ination employed by the "Young Men.”—The Sports Editors.)
Hip But Not Too Cool
Editor. The Tartan:
As a parent of a student at 
C-MU. I feel that your cartoon bv 
Schwartz on page seven of Feb. 
13. 1970. issue is in very bad 
taste.
Maybe you feel that the "hip 
generation” should express them­
selves by such words as Schwartz 
used, but a university is for the 
primary purpose of learning and 
freedom of expression, which is 
so vital in the learning process. 
When such appears in your paper, 
you allow your staff to go tar be­
yond feedom of expression and de­
cency. Maybe Schwartz should not 
be allowed at C-MU. but back in
the kindergarden or with the 
Haight-Asbury crowd in San Fran­
cisco.
No. I am not a prude or a dod 
dering old fool, but one who is 
considered a "cool cat” by a group 
of youngsters in the 16 to 19- 
year-old bracket, who have 
tried pot. LSD. speed, barbs. You 
name it. they've tried it. These 
youngsters are allowed to express 
themselves, but I insist that they 
be honest and use language which 
is decent.
Sincerely.
Paul H. Lorhan. M.D.
Chief Professor of 
Anesthesiology. UCLA

---------------------------------------------------

Friday, April 3, 1970—THE TARTAN—Page 3
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR
A Strike Against Imperialism
Editor. The Tartan:
In a letter several weeks ago, Henry A. Christoph Jr. tried to explain why the United States is in 
Vietnam and why he committs himself to White American imperialism. Unfortunately, this man has not 
examined his values or statements to recognize that they contradict the original values of our nation’s i 
founders.
History does funny things to slogans and ideals. "Give me liberty or give me death” has become a 
slogan of White American imperialism when once it was the statement of a man violently against im­
perialism. I’m sure that Mr. Christoph can see the parallel between Patrick Henry and Ho Chi Minh; 
Patrick Henry and Fidel Castro;
Patrick Henry and Mao Tse-tung;
Patrick Henry and Nguyen Van 
Troi; Patrick Henry and any na­
tionalist whose nation is being 
suppressed by White American 
imperialism.
The North Vietnamese have 
the only free government in Viet­
nam today; it was formed by true 
Vietnamese nationalists. Their 
government is a government for 
the people; it is realistic in its 
goals which are for the Vietna­
mese people. The North Vietna­
mese government demands the 
help of all Vietnamese to raise 
Vietnam to a free and prosper­
ous state just as the leaders of 
the Thirteen Colonies of Ameri­
ca rallied the colonials to fight 
for independence.
Contrary to such a wise govern­
ment in the North, the South has 
a government ruled by the mili­
tary organization which the 
United States supports. Thieu 
and his predecessors have proven 
that they really do not believe 
in a free government of the 
Vietnamese people, even though 
they profess such a belief to the 
American public.
The White American govern­
ment created the South Vietna­
mese government that prevent­
ed the 1956 elections according 
to the White American wishes.
Ngo Dinh Diem, a Catholic 
Mandarin (Catholics constitute
Wanetik On Young
(Continued from Page 2)
cn Dean Swank’s undergraduate 
advisory board, we had a meet­
ing with Chief Young. The out­
growth of that meeting was a 
series of proposals concerning se­
curity, including the purchase of 
another vehicle, the expansion of 
parking facilities, the addition of 
several men to the force, lighting 
changes, and a general redistrict- 
ing of patrol routes. Not one of 
those changes has been made. And 
Strathmeyer apparently feels the 
same way about the force now as 
he did then when, in reference to 
Chief Young’s request for more 
men, he said, "Oh, he says that 
every year.” Well, you bloody 
fool, maybe it’s true. What the 
hell do you know about police 
work, anyway?
As to your indication that the 
resignation of Chief Young would 
be no great loss, I strongly sug­
gest that the same could be said 
of other, more highly placed, 
members of the putative adminis­
tration. For example, the mere 
fact that you feel as you do, and 
have no qualms about stating so 
publicly, strongly indicates that 
your fitness to deal with business 
and personnel affairs is minimal, 
to say the least. Take some re­
fresher courses at GSIA.
In closing, let me once again 
congratulate Chief Young for his 
decision. And I hope that all the 
men on the force leave. Let Strath­
meyer hold off the nasty folk with 
a can of Mace and see how long he 
lasts. And as for the day you’ll 
get an experienced college grad­
uate to accept Chief Young’s post, 
well, thatwill be the day the men’s 
dorm complex that you were 
promised in 1968 will be erected.
Sincerely. Len Wanetik 
AMA.'68 Pitt Law.’71
ten percent of the Vietnamese 
-population,) explicitly refused 
to meet the North Vietnamese 
government in a pre-election 
conference guaranteed by the 
Geneva Agreements of July, 
1954. Diem violated an interna­
tional agreement, and we sup­
ported him.
Mr. Christoph should be aware 
of White American imperialism. 
The White American imperia­
lists have supported the French 
in a campaign that cheated the 
Vietnamese out of their inde­
pendence, which they fought for 
during World War II against Ja­
pan on the side of the Allies. The 
White American imperialists 
are now engaged themselves in a 
war to prevent Vietnamese inde­
pendence. which was won from 
France after an eight-year war. 
The Constitution of the United 
States acclaims the sacredness 
of national independence, and 
Ho Chi Minh wisely used that 
constitution as the basis for the 
constitution he wrote for his 
people in 1946; but the White 
American imperialists continue 
the bloody slaughter of Vietna­
mese patriots.
How many times do the Viet­
namese have to fight for their 
independence? The United States 
of America only fought once. 
Would not the White American 
imperialists be outraged, if they 
had to fight three times for their
independence?
I have read the Bible three 
times. Even though it is a com­
plex book with many themes, I 
have found that it has one basic 
theme throughout: sacrificing
love. Never have I noticed in 
the Bible any anti-communistic 
or racist themes. The White Am­
erican imperialists do not follow 
the basic theme of the Bible: 
they cannot sacrifice their White 
Honor to let a colored race be 
independent from their guns and 
money and pious advice.
Look at South America. The 
White American imperialists 
have oppressed the colored peo­
ples of their own continent. The 
United States attempted to show 
brotherly love for its South Am­
erican neighbors with its Mon­
roe Doctrine. The White Ameri­
can imperialists have used that 
piece of pretty diplomacy to 
keep out European competition 
in their economic oppression of 
South American.
I am sure the Mr. Christoph 
and everyone else with his kind 
of ideas can see that they are 
part of an imperialistic, immor­
al, and treacherous organization 
that has twisted history to make 
White American imperialism ac­
ceptable to the White American 
public.
For Freedom
Sam McCool
The Search For Truth
Editor. The Tartan;
Recent actions by the Pittsburgh police have made it absolutely 
clear that in cases involving political dissent the police do not act 
as agents of law and order but rather as illegal agents of fascist 
repression. The most recent incident involved the brutal attack by 
police on spectators in the courtroom during a hearing for people 
arrested for anti-draft demonstrations.
These actions force the campus community to reconsider the 
university’s policy concerning possible calls to Pittsburgh police in 
case of disruptive demonstrations on campus. During the demon­
stration last fall serious consideration was given to calling the po­
lice and present university policy (as indicated by the Stever man­
ifesto of last fall) calls for a resort to the police if other meth­
ods of ending a demonstration fail.
Such a university policy is based on the assumption that the 
police represents a force of law and order. Since recent events 
have proven this assumption false, the policy must be changed. 
Given the fact that the police are illegal agents of fascist repres­
sion, the University should adopt a policy that under no circum­
stances will it call the police on campus to control or terminate a 
demonstration. As a corollary, the University should not resort to 
injunction procedures since this is essentially equivalent to a call 
for external police action.
The search for truth is an essential purpose of a university. A 
university which bases its policies on the acceptance of falsehoods 
is on the road to self-destruction.
Lincoln Wolfenstein 
Professor of Physics
The Great Debate Continues
Editor. The Tartan;
I would personally like to con­
gratulate the Tartan staff for 
publishing both sides of an argu­
ment which appeared in the lat­
est editions of the Tartan. Spe­
cifically, I am refering to the 
Friedman-Christoph-Burgess de­
bate. I serves to show, contrary 
to what some people may believe, 
that free speech does exist!
However, there is one point 
in particular that disturbed me 
in Mr. Burgess’ statements. In 
effect, he seemed to support the 
supression of freedom of choice, 
contrary to his own beliefs on 
what he calls “freedom”. Per­
haps Mr. Burgess would have us 
believe that his particular brand 
of "freedom” should be accept­
ed by society outright, regard­
less of our 6wn feelings on the 
matter. Quoting his own state­
ment, I would like to remind Mr. 
Burgess that “it is certainly not 
my duty to let you force me 
into helping you do what you 
want to do to someone else.”
Allow me to clarify this idea. 
Mr. Burgess seems to feel that 
Mr. Christoph’s "absolute sys­
tem of morals” (“right” or 
"wrong” as they may be) justi­
fies forcing the "Burgess philo­
sophy” upon everyone. Who is 
Mr. Burges to decide? Do Mr. 
Christoph’s beliefs necessarily 
excuse those of Mr. Burgess? 
Are we to believe that Mr. Bur­
gess is “right”, because he feels 
that Mr. Christoph is "wrong”? 
Mr. Burgess feels that it is not 
proper to “impose a system on 
some other country.” What, then, 
gives him the right to impose 
his beliefs on us? Furthermore, 
Mr. Burgess believes that Mr. 
Christoph’s morals directly sup­
port the "Burgess philosophy.” 
If this were true, then the con­
trary must be correct — Mr. 
Burgess undoubtably supports 
Mr. Christoph’s position!
Most disturbing of all, howev-
Prt»» Strvic*
. . . And you viewers from all 16 states will be able to 
watch as we endeavor to explore this gas bog which, 
during the 20th century—believe it or not—was actually 
a populated area known as “Cal-if-ornia."
SCHOLA
PART TIME EMPLOYEES
To work in America's 1st 
Computer Store in Monroe­
ville, Pa. Must have experi* 
enee in Data Processing, 
Fortran, or Coboc, or Basic. 
Call 421-1586 for Interview
er, is Mr. Burgess’ statement that 
“You can expect me to physi­
cally attempt to restrain you and 
other educated’ young men from 
entering the active army.” If 
Mr. Burgess meant to have this 
remark literally interpreted and 
if he is a true believer in free­
dom, I would advise him not to 
attempt to exert his particular 
form of Fascism upon anyone, 
including myself. To use his 
very own words, “my free­
dom has more to do with decid­
ing on my own to go into the 
army or not.”
In conclusion, I wish to make 
it clear that I have nothing per­
sonal against Mr. Burgess. How­
ever, if an individual argues 
that he has a right to the free­
dom of choice, and at the same 
time denies another individual 
the enjoyment of the same right, 
I see no justification for such a 
stand.
Thomas J. Novak 
History ’72
Why should a traditional 
club tie have the new 
full fashion shape?
Phot byJ hJe rSiJ osksinSsd usoo 
uldynSh dylaJ TusooJi shFJiEbyJE 
-hSbC enFJi byiSsfySsbA nd infyb enby 
bSFltcd oShfJi dynib BSoolidC enFJi 
MlB-Jb olaJodg Nylbcd rSiJC bynd 
hJe usoo uldynSh dylaJ nd wJdb Blo(
BsolbJF bS dySe Suu byJ osksinSsd 
nraSibJF dno-d lhF FilrlbnB alb(
bJihd Su pJdnonScd hJe fnlhb Boswdg
P.S. All Resilio ties have the new 
full fashion shape.
'esilioniAiimufcM I
KING'S COACH HOUSE
631 Liberty Avenue 
Pittsburgh

---------------------------------------------------

Pag« 4—THE TARTAN—Friday, April 3, 1970
On Monday, April 6, at 7:30 
p.m. the Cultural Committee of 
the Activities Board will hold an 
open meeting in Room 46, Ski- 
bo. The purpose of this meeting 
will be to take suggestions from 
members of the campus com­
munity for possible speakers for 
next year's lecture program. 
Suggestions for changing the 
format of the lecture program 
will also be in order. Anyone not 
able to attend this meeting 
should make suggestions to 
Scott Murray or Mr. McCurdy at 
Skibo 103.
Survival in the Seventies Depends Upon Your BeingInformed
Blend the best elements in rock 
and the choice ingredients of gos­
pel, put it all together in the hands 
of contingent of fine musicians, 
and you have one of the most ex­
citing sounds in music today. In 
short, you have the Chambers 
Brothers.
It takes something very special 
for a group of project on record 
the same brand of fire it is cap­
able of doing in a live perform­
ance. The Chamber Brothers have 
accomplished this on their new 
double-record album for Colum­
bia titled “Love, Peace and Hap­
piness/Live at Billy Graham's 
Fillmore East."
Pure love is the Chambers 
Brothers' message, whether on 
record or in concert. Spring Car­
nival goers this year will have a 
chance to get this message Fri­
day, April 17. at the Syria Mosque, 
where the group will perform as 
part of the weekend s activities. 
Tickets are now available at Ski­
bo Information Desk.
Gospel Meets Rock
Ph 'aino IIhF byJ unidb RlbnShlo vhmniSh(
rJhblo .JlByEGh enoo wJ yJoF lb BSooJfJd lhF 
shnmJidnbnJd lBiSdd byJ hlbnShg Gu tSsciJ 
ld-nhf tSsidJou what can I do, .­v vR(
,GpPR)vR.'" ­'RY”PP— enoo dJimJ ld l 
dSsiBJ Su nFJld lhF blBbnBdg
Other related titles:
THE POPULATION BOMB
by Dr. Paul R. Ehrlich 
THE FRAIL OCEAN by Wesley Marx 
MOMENT IN THE SUN
by Leona & Robert Rienow 
S S T and Sonic Boom Handbook
by William R. Shurcliff 
PERILS OF THE PEACEFUL ATOM:
The Myth of Safe Nuclear Power Plants 
by Richard Curtis & Elizabeth Hogan ($1 25)
Available wherever 
QjT) 8ALLANTINE BOOKS are sold
(95c)
(95c)
(95c)
(95c)
Reach out, expand your worid of people 
and ideas at the University of Pennsyl­vania Summer Sessions. Over 290 courses, from Archaeology to Zoology, 
offer credit toward an undergraduate, graduate or professional degree.
For complete information, mail this coupon today.
? First Session: May 18 to June 26.
? Second Session: June 29 to Aug. 7.
? New! Four special courses in music at Teton Village, Wyoming. July 20 to Aug. 28.
Name___________________________________________
Address_ 
City_____
State-
UNIVERSITY of 
PENNSYLVANIA
Summer Sessions
Room 15B, College Hall 
Philadelphia, Pennsylvania 19104
Scotch ‘If Soda
RIP.PED. 
TMheLOarHt nL;MhHCow
Ticket Sales
Monday thru Friday
Baker Hall .......................................9:30-2:30
Skibo ..............................................11:30-4:30
Skibo Information Desk................8:30-5:00
Performances
OPENING PREVIEWS
April 11 and 12 at 8:30
PERFORMANCES
April 14, 15 and 16 at 8:30
Aprl 17 at 9:45
April 18 at 7:00
LIMITED SEATING
Akerman: Guitar Talent Highlighted
by Patricia McDonald
The Spanish guitar in the class­
ical manner from upper middle 
class surburbia, does not fit the 
Spanish toreador stereotype, but 
then Larry Akerman. Carnegie- 
Mellon University sophomore 
does not fit any old string-pluck- 
ing mold.
The 20 year old English major, 
member of a highly musically 
oriented family switched to guitar 
after a four year bout with the pi­
ano. 'It was simpler and some­
thing through which I could ex-
press myself anytime.” Larry 
said.
Despite his father's prediction 
that playing the guitar was just a 
passing fad. Larry has been at it 
for 11 years.
Larry's repertoire includes mu­
sic in the classical, flamenco and 
jazz traditions. A Chatham Col­
lege coffeehouse in late October 
featured Larry and scheduled him 
for two. two and one-half hour 
sets. So enthusiastic was the 
young artist's reception that he
Guitarist Ackerman in TV performance.
ORIGINAL HOT BOG SHOPPE
hkPI im ec''csE asD As1. Ms'pu
WITH THIS COiiKW „ 
between the how® of <5 ffc.m. and 3 SCHOHC
THREE HOT DOGS FOR $1.00 
OR THREE STEAKBURGERS FOR $1.00 
. . . OR THREE FISH SANDWICHES FOR $1.001
VAUD UNTIL APRIL 5th 
• YOUR CHOICE •
OPEN 24 HOURS 3901 FORBES AVE-
was persuaded to play for the fin­
al hour and a half of the program. 
His most recent appearance was 
at the Tartan Grill coffeehouse 
Feb. 28. where he combined tal­
ents with Steve Paul, another C- 
MU guitarist, to produce a re­
sounding rendition of the Spanish 
classic Malagueña.
In addition to his Chatham and 
C-MU appearances Larry also ap­
peared at Carlow College and sev­
eral private parties in the Pitts­
burgh area.
His most important appear­
ance this year was on WQED's 
program "The Place." ‘Two days 
after Christmas vacation I got a 
call from WQED and was audi­
tioned. The following Saturday we 
taped the show.'' WQED contract­
ed Larry for two more shows 
later this year.
In the Feb. 4 program Larry 
appeared with another Carnegie- 
Mellon student, Linda Rye. Lar­
ry provided the musical back­
ground for Linda while she read 
her own poetry.
Larry also instructs high school 
and college students in the art of 
guitar playing. ’ Although I do 
teach folk music I try to influence 
my students to study classical 
techniques. I believe the guitar is 
as much a classical instrument as 
a piano is. Just as it is unlikely 
for the beginning piano student to 
want to learn folk music, so it 
should be unlikely for a beginning 
guitar student to want to learn 
folk music.
Larry does not see music as his 
vocationl although he hopes to 
continue to use the guitar semi- 
professionally.” He wants to com­
bine his English studies with some 
studies in Graphic Design and 
pursue a career in advertising. 
'Since music is not my chosen 
profession, the income I receive 
from it is not all that important, 
but. as any musician knows, the 
greater the applause the better I 
feel.”
­rvro LHtrHLL;rHt 
MLHrh;Ml
YOUR FUTURE CAN BE IN TRANSPORTATION!
Our expanding transportation engineering 
program includes an annual V2 billion dollars 
in highway constructon.
No Exam — Tuition refunds for Graduate Study.
See our recruiter on Tuesday April 7, 1970. Visit your 
Placement Office NOW for brochures and SIGN UP to 
hear the full story, or write to:
Personel Bureau 
NEW YORK STATE DEPARTMENT TRANSPORTATION
State Campus Building 5, Albany, New York 12226
S,xD*. O,P 
AcggPIPEFP 
rg SP AsE*D 
SxbP BR4
ABORTION - Information, 
Speakers, Counseling. Writ«: 
Abortion Justico Association, 
Box 10132, Pittsburgh, Po. 
15232.
FINALLY
FAST & EFFICIENT SERVICE 
ON
YOUR MACHINE
G * G ALL CYCLE SERVICE CENTER
nrOOM2B;ta-M oC;tLMO
5 rE.RPFDcsE
5 O8EP68R
5 ecEsI C H
5 KIPP L.DcNxDP.
5 ScEDPI MDsIx1P
5 rE.8IxEFP
It's About Time That There's i Place That
hHoG ML;vr­LM ehOh;­G­oLM
UdY6iYfi
TiTcketS ^ Shadyside fiW M8NNPI'Px MD„
BKTWKKN WALNUT end ELLSWORTH AVI.
PRESENT THIS AD - FREF OIL CHANGE WITH STATE INSPECTION.

---------------------------------------------------

GR,vR. ' !"Pz'R q NGR ' PpGZv
"Whatever Your Cause, It’s a Lost Cause 
Unless We Control Population”
That's the best population slogan we've 
been able to come up with. Can you top 
it? A citation and an honorarium of $10 
are offered for the best slogan turned in 
to the advertising manager of this news­
paper before the forthcoming Environ­
mental Teach-In on Earth Day, April 22. 
The winning slogan from this campus 
will be eligible to compete for the 
national
$500 PpGZv
to be awarded for the best slogan pre­
pared by a student on any of the 215 
campuses where this ad is appearing.
Rules: Simply devise a brief state­
ment of the importance and urgency of 
checking population growth — to the 
environment, to quality of life, to world 
peace. Send it on or before April 22 to 
this newspaper, addressed "Population 
Contest." Judges on this campus will be 
three members of this paper's staff 
appointed by the ad manager. All deci­
sions final and only their selection will 
be eligible for big national prize, to be 
judged by Paul Ehrlich, David Brower, 
and Hugh Moore.
Write your slogan today. One entry 
per student. For free literature on popu­
lation explosion, write Hugh Moore 
Fund. 60 E. 42nd St., New York 10017.
Friday, April 3, 1970—THE TARTAN—Pag« 5
Summer Jobs New Transfer Policy Passed
YVES MONTANO IRENE PAPAS JEAN-LOUIS TRINTIGNANT
Jobs both on campus and with 
outside agencies throughout the 
city of Pittsburgh are available 
for the summer under the College 
Work Study Program. Students 
who are taking classes may work 
an average of 15 hours per week, 
and those not taking classes may 
work 40 hours.
The Work Study Program, 
which was set up under the Eco­
nomic Opportunity Act to create 
additional jobs for needy students, 
will run this summer from June 
1 to August 15. Positions are 
open on campus in various de­
partments for library assistants, 
lab assistants, research assis­
tants, and clerical work. Off cam­
pus jobs include tutorial, recrea­
tional. arts and crafts, and clerical 
work.
Any studen who has filed a Par­
ents' Confidential Statement for 
the coming academic year, 1970- 
71. is eligible to apply. Applica­
tions are due in the Financial Aid 
Office no later than April 10.
AT CHATHAM OENTEfl 261 1001
If We Don’t Wake Up 
We'll Sleep in Filth
O,P ScpP® Sc'p SsI'p hg HP< Kc'N r. ­sNcE1
cE
»••• • • •••• • • • • • •••• ••••• • •••• ••• ••••••• ••••• • • • • • • •• • • • • •• • •• •A • t « • ••• • •••• ••• • • a • ••• * * •• • •• ••••«•• * • •• ••• a • • • • • #• ••• ••••«•• • • • • • • • •••• • t • • « •••• • •
• •••• • •••• m m • • •• • : : :
:•••! :••••
• •
A UNIQUE 3 PROGRAM SERIES OF 26 NEW FILMS FROM 9 COUNTRIES
featuring
LONDON POP SAN FRANCISCO PSYCHEDELIC 
JAPANESE DADA LA TERNA MAGIKA
First U.S. showings of the world's most outstanding creative 
short films ... black comedy and drama of the absurd ... 
continental wit and lyrical humanism ... animation and 
collage graphics... electronic color and surreal sound 
I ... science-fiction fantasy and documentary realism 
... including:
VERSAILLES
Paris, Albert Lamorisse 
RAKVICKARNA 
Prague 
PARIS MAI 1»M 
France 
LA VITA 
Milan 
MIRACLE 
Budapest 
SAMADHI 
San Francisco 
WHY DID YOU KISS ME AWAKE?
West Germany 
MARIE ET LE CURE 
Paris
TONIGHT LET’S ALL MAKE LOVE 
IN LONDON
with Michael Caine, The Rolling Stones, 
Julie Christie, Eric Bur don, others
~~~ , i niiii'r*
i ' i iliiM"1 ... rep»«*
......1 inrrfl. tiìACSfl* Irom
-------------
Kinetic ArtProgram Three
K;rACG® Cn;ro im 6 f3Um xEp im3mm 
MCOB;ACG® Cn;ro ii 6 f3Um xEp im3mm 
MBHACG® Cn;ro iY 6 Y3mm xEp •3Um
Tickets $1.00 at Skibo
SaL;LOO ;hhe
The following policy on departmental transfers was approved by 
the Educational Policy Council on February 23,1970:
Student transfers between departments within colleges and be­
tween departments in different colleges should be made as simple as 
possible within the necessary limits of the student's competence and 
of departmental space and budget. Any regularly enrolled student at 
C-MU may apply for transfer into any C-MU department. Upon such 
application, the department concerned must determine whether the 
applicant has the ability to undertake and complete the departmental 
program (i.e.. verbal or mathematical competence, talent, etc.). Evi­
dence of such ability by means of College Board scores, grades in 
courses taken, portfolios of work, or performance may be necessary.
If the department (or. where appropriate, the freshman dean) is 
satisfied that the student can meet its requirements, and if it has the 
space and staff to handle the added teaching load, it will prepare the 
necessary papers to recommend the transfer to the appropriate dean 
(i.e., the dean to which that department reports). Normally, the dean 
will then notify the registrar that the student has been admitted. If the 
department rejects the application for transfer, it will notify the dean 
and indicate reasons.
If a department would like to admit a student or students but can­
not because of limits of space or staff, it will inform the dean, who will 
discuss the problem with the vice president for academic affairs.
Transfer between colleges will become effective on the date the 
dean signs the transfer form.
Noon Forum Resumes
A Republican activist and a political science instructor will talk 
next week when the Y’s Thursday Noon Forum resumes at 12:30 p.m. 
in the Staff Cafeteria. Skibo. The issue will be whether students can be 
effective in inducing change in the party system of politics, and. if so. 
what roles they can play. ----------------------------------------------------
Jim Seif. a Pitt law student and 
local Republican worker, and
Student tickets for the final 
Drama production, LYSIS- 
TRATA will be distributed 
Thursday and Friday, April 
16 and 17, between 3:30 
and 4:30 in Room 108, Fine 
Arts Building.
LYSISTRATA will be present­
ed April 25—May 5, exclud­
ing Sundays.
Each student is entitled to 
two free tickets accompa­
nied by two student I. D. 
cards.
KAPPA SIGMA
Housewarming, Inc.
?
KIcpx9® CRIc' U
8.-30-1.00
Mrs. Charlotte Davis, instructor 
in political science at C-MU and a 
doctoral candidate at Pitt, will 
each speak from their experi­
ences in being active in recent 
political campaigns. Mr. Seif play­
ed a key role in the candidacy of 
John Tabor for mayor of Pitts­
burgh. and Mrs. Davis was active 
in the McCarthy campaign.
The question for the Forum 
next week is whether students can 
be effective in bringing about 
needed changes in the party sys­
tem before it is too late and the 
parties collapse of their own iner­
tia.
As is true every week the For­
um will be open to everyone, with 
ample time for questions and dis­
cussion.
GLADYS SCHMIDT
will speak on
WILLIAM BLAKE
at 11:30 on 
TUESDAY, APRIL 7
in the FINE ARTS THEATRE. 
The Title of 
Miss Scmidt's talk is
'Blake in the Seventies'
Everyone Is Invited.
CHhOaL; ­hoBeH 
K;he 2LCO;r­L
Dear Mrs. Gainley,
I have had a terrible problem for a number of years. 
This is very difficult for me to say. I have fat eyeballs. 
People smile and act nice but I know they are laughing 
behind my back. Please help.....................Yours, Pupil Less
Dear Pupil Less,
Now it can't be that bad! Perhaps you could see a 
cosmetician—or better yet—go to your Optometrist and get 
a prescription for Telescopic Contact Lens. Remember, you 
have nothing to lose.
Personality Yours,
BEA GAINSLEY
To Steve, who helped change my tire. I love you and I 
had to tell tomeone,
Lonely millionaire owns ocean — going yacht and 
wants companions on a Mediterranean cruise. Those who 
are bored, lonely or looking for adventure are welcome 
on this four-week voyage. Sailing from Porto Christo, Italy 
V on June 20th. To share something novel, something per- 
; j; sonal.
Round-trips to Europe by Jetr some for $199.00
Information and reservations: Prof. Paul Krumenacker, 510 
Estelle Drive, Lancaster, Pa. 17601; Tel. (717) 898-2700. 
Also “GRAND TOUR OF EUROPE" including Russia, 50 days 
all expenses paid, for $1,098.00.

---------------------------------------------------

Page 6—THE TARTAN—Friday, April 3, 1970
The Media: A Conservative Rap
by Tom Greider
After several months of lying 
low, I have finally decided to 
churn out some more pulp for the 
benefit of the clamoring throngs 
of Tartan readers whose very 
lives revolve about the truth that 
this great chronicle seeks to un­
cover and thoroughly decimate 
before rendering the print. No 
doubt my detractors wish my 
journalistic renascence had not 
occurred. But, if they can’t take 
a joke ....
Before indulging in some eso­
teric profunditism. I should like 
to throw down the gauntlet to the 
cretins in the Tartan office wheth­
er they be copy editors, proof­
readers, or other such sundry and 
anchillary pinheads. I would like 
to defy them to print the stuff I 
actually submit. Getting para­
graphs botched up. sentences lost, 
and words orthographically awry 
(usually the ones that I go to the 
trouble to look up) gets me hy­
pertensive—not to mention pissed 
off. If I was a little more conser­
vative and a lot more neurotic 
(you could spell that New Left in 
a psychological perspective, too). 
I'd swear there was a surreptiti­
ous Communist-funded plot, to 
prevent the truth from leaking out 
on campus. That said, on to the 
heavy stuff.
In recent months it has become 
the vogue in a small portion of 
narrow-minded society to ridicule 
the vice-president of the U.S. of 
A. for things said and done. For 
those not familiar with the situa­
tion. one could liken it to the hoola- 
hoop. goldfish swallowing crazes. 
In other words, crazy as hell. 
What particularly galls the vast 
majority of these folks is Spriot’s 
(in)-famous Iowa nees media 
speech. To illustrate the extent of 
such discomfort of the liberals'’ 
on this point consider Agnew’s re­
cent recognition by a Swiss News 
Association as the single recent 
threat to freedom of the press. 
Like wondering why your favorite 
movie didn’t win an academy 
award. I can only think that pass­
ing up such stellar attractions as 
Czechoslovakia and the Greek col­
onels is a flagrant demonstration 
of intellectual apraxia.
Does the press tell the truth? 
In spite of Spiro Baby, I have to 
admit—sometimes. I can say with 
even fervent conviction that I 
have to admit—sometimes. I can 
say with even fervent conviction 
that I have known the press to be 
impeccable in reporting things 
such as football scores, the all 
all important TV schedule, and 
the stock market quotations. In 
fact, in a display of fair play play 
and magnanimity. I’ll even con­
cede them the weather report, 
commercials and the comics. All 
the rest is certainly open to hon­
est debate if not the barbs of in­
vective from supposed clod-el 
numero two.
To realize that the august press 
does not have the ingallibility of 
the Pope or the chastity of More- 
wood girls, et’s cite a few exam­
ples. If I may reverse standard 
procedures of argument, I would 
like to call to certer state the ab­
surdity—the Tartan. Those of us 
who peruse the Tartan are aware 
that it does not exactly straddle 
the fence. When reporting the 
news. For specifics I’ll invoke the 
famous Von Braun front page 
story as an example of opinion 
pawned off on the hapless reader 
as Gospel. One need not have been 
myopian to spot that one. Then 
there was the March on Washing­
ton report. Hawkeved Tartan re­
porters counted one and a half 
million people—a mere six times 
that reported everywhere else. A 
couple of weeks ago there was a 
little blurb inviting folks to help 
cut sugar cane in Cuba. I suppose 
that was a public service mess­
age.
Now. on to the professionals. A 
few months ago a local bank 
branch was hijacked (by persons 
probably caught, convicted and 
given ten days for unsportsman­
like conduct). A mild mannered 
reporter for one of our large met­
ropolitan newspapers (the Daily 
Planet) called their downtown 
headquarters and asked if so 
many thousands (a specific and 
hefty sum) was taken. A bank 
spokesman said no it was not that 
amount and they didn't know 
themselves, but they believed it 
to be much less. However, in bold 
face type in the next edition—so 
many thousands stolen from local 
bank. It probably sold them a few 
papers and who cares if it wasn’t 
true.
Of course, reporters means of 
twisting the news are much more 
devious and not as susceptible to 
refutation. John Q. Public—better 
let’s use Joe College (this will 
look better cause college-educated 
people are supposed to know bet­
ter) thinks nothing amiss when 
he watched the evening news. But 
equally as bad as manipulting the 
facts is leaving out important 
items prejudicant to the image 
reporters want to convey. Exam­
ples of this are the fact that good, 
bad, or in between, the hue was 
worse than My Lai (as well as 
condoned by political leaders), 
kids acted just as bad as the copts 
at Chicago; we were beating the 
hell out of the Viet Cong, only a 
few twits heaved marshmellows 
at Uncle Strom and Senator Ful- 
bright (darling of the liberals) 
votes against civil rights legisla­
tion. Thus, the mere emphasis of 
certain facts at the expense of 
others may lead the uncontious to 
arrive at an unwarranted conclu­
sion.
I think there is almost some^ 
thing of Marshall McLauhan in 
in what Agnew says, modern 
communication has permitted a 
few certain individuals to be in 
the position of deciding the tone 
(and it may be as subtle as a sin­
gle word choice) and content of 
the information upon which we 
base our political and moral opin­
ions and decisions. And. if that 
basic information is colored by 
one persuasion or another, then 
this defeats the idea of freedom of 
the presses and consequently com­
promises the democratic mode of 
the government.
I further feel that if the political 
polarization which surrounds this 
issue could be removed, society 
would find fertile ground for 
thought — both introspectively* 
and as to how they feel their so­
ciety should operate. Already the 
“other” opinion has found issues 
to which the Iowa speech could 
be applied. The Democratic Na­
tional Committee is howling about
Summer
in
Cleveland
Undergraduate and grad­
uate students can earn up 
to 9 semester hours of 
credit during the seven- 
week term at Case West­
ern Reserve University 
(June 22-Aug. 7).
For further informa­
tion, write to the Office of 
the Summer Session, Case 
Western Reserve Univer­
sity, Cleveland, Ohio 
44106, or stop in during 
your spring break.
Case
Western
Reserve
University
the President pre-empting TV and 
radio when he has some political 
hay to make. Also, a San Francis­
co draft resistance group is mak­
ing public service TV films citing 
their opinions.
Liberals get swelled heads and 
puffed chests when conservatives 
accept such things as social secur­
ity, etc., as the American way. 
Things that liberals had to club 
over conservatives heads at one 
time. Who knows? Perhaps one 
day — years from now most cer­
tainly. Eric Sevareid will say, 
“Goddamn you know old Siro did 
have a good point.”
“7 would share with my fellow classmates rejection 
of the whole world as it is — all of it. Is there any jwint 
in studying and work? Fornication — at least that is some­
thing good. What else is there to do? Fornicate and take 
drugs against this terrible strain of idiots who govern 
the world.”
Albert Szent-Gyorgi, 1937 Nobel Prize winner in Bio­
logy, author of THE CRAZY APE — commenting on what 
he would do if he were 20. He is 76.
STUDENT HELP 
CENTER
To Open at 
New Location 
oo Bouquet Street
MONDAY.
For Information Call 
683EI133
JOHN LENNON. 
BOB DYLAN. 
PETER FONDA.
If they mean anything to you, 
try LOVE.
nIs1IP..ckP ;sFb
O,P ScpP® Sc'p SsI'p hg HP< Kc'N r. ­sNcE1
cE
••••• •••
• • • •••• ••••• • •••• •• • • • •••• •• • • • • •••••• • ••• • \ • ••• • • •• • \ • • • ••• • m • • • • • «Î • V * ! ! *__•
•••• ••••• • • •
•••• •
• • • •
••••
A UNIQUE 3-PROGRAM SERIES OF 26 NEW FILMS FROM 9 COUNTRIES
featuring
LONDON POP SAN FRANCISCO PSYCHEDELIC 
JAPANESE DADA LA TERNA MAGIKA
First U.S. showings of the world’s most outstanding creative 
short films ... black comedy and drama of the absurd ... 
continental wit and lyrical humanism ... animation and 
collage graphics ... electronic color and surreal sound 
... science-fiction fantasy and documentary realism 
... including:
0
VERSAILLES
Paris, Albert Lamorisse 
RAKVICKARNA 
Prague 
PARIS MAI 1VM 
France 
LA VITA 
Milan 
MIRACLE 
Budapest 
SAMADHI 
San Francisco 
WHY DID YOU KISS ME AWAKE?
West Germany 
MARIE ET LE CURE 
Paria
TONIGHT LET’S ALL MAKE LOVE 
IN LONDON
with Michael Caine. The Rolling Stones, 
Julie Christie, Eric Burdon, others
„ Jas «x''*orÄ«W.'.a"0• Th« niAmufcM *n°v,n®n)j « tig**- e«ra«r
* „„ïiÆ' 
-----------
Kinetic ArtProgram Three
K;rACG® Cn;ro im 6 f3Um xEp im3mm 
MCOB;ACG® Cn;ro ii 6 f3Um xEp im3mm 
MBHACG® Cn;ro iY 6 Y3mm xEp •3Um
Tickets $1.00 at Skibo
SaL;LOO ;hhe

---------------------------------------------------

Friday, April 3, 1970—THE TARTAN—Page 7
The Black Revolution- 
Making Tomorrow Reality
by David Hume
The primary function of the 
Black Revolution is to educate 
Black folks about the most intelli­
gent means of solving their prob­
lems. Paramount in this educa­
tion process is the transmission 
to Black people that the power to 
determine what will occur in ref­
erence to their life chances be­
longs to them—and their duly 
elected and, or legitimate repre­
sentatives.
Amandla Negewethu ( ‘Power 
to the People”). Black leaders or 
leaders who claim to represent 
the interests of oppressed people 
must be legitimate—their ‘right'’ 
to represent or lead must be a 
product of interaction with the 
eople (i.e., neighborhood, com­
munity or city) not simply the in­
ternationalization of what he be­
lieves the people want and need.
The needs of the people can be 
determined in two basic ways: 
the one touched on above, and by
The Moratorium Committee, 
the New Mobilization Com­
mittee, and the Student Mo­
bilization have called for 
demonstrations in every city 
on April 15th in protest of 
the war in Vietnam, Laos, 
Cambodia, etc. and calling 
for a rearranging of prior­
ities.
meeting to discuss
CRIc' iWD, APNsE.DIxDcsE.
against the war, pollution, 
inflation, etc. with the theme
TS,s Rx9.4 
S,s RIsgcD.4w
Monday, April 6, 1970
7:30 p.m.
Room 45 SKI BO
dealing with these necessities of 
life which insure survival (e.g., 
food, shelter, and clothing). To 
provide for his needs, the Black 
man cannot solely depend upon a 
political system that has been ir­
relevant to his needs from its very 
conception.
Completely new processes must 
be designed and developed to ac­
commodate Black folk. There are 
only so many ways that a Black 
man can be tied into the system” 
in the United States of America 
and still remain loyal to the pre­
cepts of Black liberation. A com­
mitment to the liberation strug­
gle demands many sacrifices. 
Those so inclined must begin to 
view Black folk as the vanguards 
of a ‘‘new humanity” — arms 
stretched forth to embrace the 
sons and daughters of a brighter 
tomorrow. Man’s inhumanity to 
man—poverty, hate and oppres­
sion are the legacy of the now 
civilization. Black folk must cre­
ate. through their Black souls, the 
foundations of a mighty civiliza­
tion—humanity that stretches be­
yond the shallow limits of time 
and space.
The Black man is the harbinger 
of a brighter tomorrow. What I 
say can become a reality—for as 
we think, we act.
PHIL OCHS
cE FsEFPID
SUNDAY, APRIL 5
8:00 agrg
Pitt Common Facilities Bldg.
$3.00
Benefit of 
Pgh. Resistance 
and Pgh. Moratorium
Tickets available at C-MU 
Information Desk Skibo 
or
PITTSBURGH RESISTANCE
3601 Boulevard of the Allies
’'WELL-. - IT LOOKS AS tF WE'\)£ 
v)\M>T AfcÖVJT POSHED OOfc ENV\RôNNkEM*T
ITS LIMIT ¦ Colt»»« Pr«»$ Servie*
Stude
Responsibility? — You’ll never believe! 
Involvement?— Up to your neck! 
Advancement?— Fast. If you work for it! 
Learning?— Learn while you do!
And you get paid for it. Well paid! ^
DO YOU NEED ANY MtiRE 
REASONS ft COME AND 
SEE WHY UNCLE JOSEPH
WANTS YOU?
Boston _University¿it June 28-August 23TanglewoodLenox, Massachusetts
College-credit courses, on undergraduate and graduate 
levels, in music, theatre, dance, painting and drawing.
)U!GCg 'aaonJF )sdnB nhdbisBbnSh PaJil NSi-dySa PnlhS 
!Jrnhlid G & GG ,nSonh !Jrnhli CySilo CShFsBbnhf vbyhS(
oSfnBlo )sdnB .­v'.pv & Y'RCv .yJlbiJ NSi-dySa
PiSuJddnShlo Polteinfybd NSi-dySa YlhBJ NSi-dySa 
)SmJrJhb NSi-dySa !Jrnhli oSi .JlByJid bno YlhBJ 'p. 
S ”ldh Plnhbnhf & Yilenhf 'FmlhBJF Plnhbnhf K Yilenhf
F'CU".Y )U!GC 'FJolnFJ ”ndySa )linl CoSFJd ogJJ 
Cyindrlh pSwJib CliodnFJ ”tiSh Jlhnd ogsBnoJ "leiJhBJ 
YlmnF )B'ooJdoJi ”Jol ”SdzSihnShtnERlft FJonk PSaaJi 
pSrlh .SbJhyJif lhF rJrwJid So byJ ”SdbSh !traySht 
PiByJdbil .­v'.pv — Y'RCv ZJ'Jml CSyJh JSdJay 
CnuuSiF pShloF Gimnhf )SszSh G le vmlhfJonhJ )liyor 
Uliol )lkeJoo CotFJ )Siflh voonSb RSbnSh 'p. pSwJib 
Y /uindbl YlmnF plbhJi )SinSh !lB-d JlrJd NJJ-d; 
pnByliF YliFJ GgJolhF ”Joo vdblwlh ,nBntnbJ "JShliF ”JBSsi
'oo alibnBnalhbd ylmJ byJ ainmnoJfJ Su lbbJhFnhf iJyJlidlod lhF 
BShBJibd Su ”SdbSh !traySht PiByJdbil lhF SbyJi JmJhbd lb 
byJ ”Ji-dyniJ )sdnB CJhbJi
If so, look up Chuck Kline on campus.
APRIL 10, 1970
© 1970 JSdg !Byonbz ”iJenhf CSgC )noels-JJ lhF SbyJi fiJlb BnbnJdg

---------------------------------------------------

Page 8—THE TARTAN—Friday, April 3, 1970
EJ "Bruins” Top SN In Basketball 
IM All-Stars Defeat Pgh. Steelers
The EJ Bruins won their second 
consecutive intramural basket­
ball championship with a 40-27 
victory against Sigma Nu on Fri­
day. March 13. A 10-4 spurt in the 
second quarter gave the Bruins a 
21-9 half-time lead and Sigma Nu 
could not get closer than eight 
points after that.
Lenny Beer popped three long 
ones to pace the Bruins early at­
tack, scoring six of his team’s 10 
points. Sigma Nu found the early 
going rough underneath and was 
forced to take long jumpers with­
out much success, making only 
three of 20 shots in the first half. 
Meanwhile, Jack Modzelewski. 
Sam Hicken. and Jim Selevan 
found the range and built up the 
12-point lead at the half.
The second half saw Sigma Nu 
hitting for a much better percen­
tage and cutting the lead to eight 
points on four occasions. Dan 
Mastrian and Paul Lewis scored 
to cut the lead to 21-13 early in the 
third quarter and later Hal Shaf­
fer drove in to make it 24-16. On 
each occasion, Modzelewski put 
the Bruins back on top by 10.
The EJ’s ran off nine straight 
points in the fourth quarter to put 
the game out of reach. Sigma Nu 
went into a press with the score 
37-20 and the game ended 40-27.
The Old Men took third place 
with a 72-54 win over Kappa Sig­
ma in the consolation game. KS’s 
Ed Peretich topped all scorers 
with 33 points but the Old Men's
TARTAN
SportS
Voll. 6l9o,N4V V93C3 
9-M3UlF
Congratulations
E. J. BRUINS
iVfm re 2x.bPDyx'' ­,xNRcsE.
MDC
Shaffer, SN's high scorer, was 
bottled up offensively by Burner, 
but still did a good job on the 
boards. Ed Dolbow also pulled 
down a lot of rebounds for Sigma 
Nu.
Selevan was the game’s leading 
scorer with 13 points. Mastrian 
topped Sigma Nu with eight.
balanced attack was the deciding 
factor. Five grads scored in dou­
ble figures, led by Dick Sehlin's 
16 points.
In the special attraction, the 
IM All-Stars defeated the Pitts­
burgh Steelers basketball team, 
59-58. Dick Sehlin led the C-MU 
team with 12 points and Dick 
Hoak had 12 for the Steelers
CAMPUS INTERVIEW SCHEDULE
OBLMACG® Cn;ro i•® iVfm
Institute for Defense Analysis*
Board of Education of Camden, N. J.
SLAHLMACG® Cn;ro rM® iVfm
Arthur Anderson & Co.
S. Windsor Schools—Conn.*
OaB;MACG® Cn;ro id® iVfm
Board of Education—Carroll Co., Md.
K;rACG® Cn;ro if® iVfm
Omaha National Bank*
OBLMACG® Cn;ro Y?® iVfm
Plainfield Public Schools, N. J.
* Indicates citizenship or permanent residence, visa required.
in a game which featured some 
humorous incidents and lots of 
serious basketball.
Ben McGee, the 265 pound 
end from Jackson State, seemed 
to forget what sport he was play­
ing in the opening quarter when he 
tackled John Cornuelle (GSIA). 
The All-Stars led 13-7 at the quar­
ter.
The Steelers fought back to 
within one point with Dick Hoak 
quarterbacking that attack. Dave 
Aber (SAE) displayed the quick­
est reflexes of the evening as he 
found himself alone upcourt 
against three onrushing Steelers, 
but successfully eluded them. As 
the half ended, the All-Stars held 
on to a 37-33 lead.
In the third quarter, the IM 
All-Stars began to build their lead 
as Richie Mulline (Old Men) 
guided their offense and tossed 
some great passes. On one break, 
Mullins flipped a behind-the-back 
pass to Ryan (Black Magic) who 
fed Sehlin for the bucket. Later 
on, Dick Arnt spotted a loose ball 
and recovered the ‘ fumble” with 
perfect form, rolling over twice. 
However, he was called for trav­
eling.
In the final period, Sehlin sus­
tained a rugged pick set by one 
of the bigger Steelers but he stay­
ed in the game and blocked Dick 
Hoak’s attempted lay-up. Roy 
Jefferson hit a 30 footer right be­
fore the buzzer to make the final 
score closer.
Don Keefer did a commend­
able job coaching the IM All-Stars 
to victory while letting everyone 
get into the game.
IM CHAMPIONSHIP
EJ BruinsFGFTFPis.
Selevan37113
Burner1123
Beer4028
Modzelewski3238
Hicken4008
Kopko0000
Totals*15*10*840
Sigma NuFGFTFPts.
Dolbow1103
Lewis2044
Mastrian4018
Stevens2145
Shaffer2317
Ringler0000
Kneisley0000
Janke0000
————
Totals1151027
1969-70 C-MU STATISTICS
NameGFGAFGFTAFTRBSPts.Ave.Brown18390166845210038421.3Abraham22192941418219227012.3Grazzini222421001006220026211.9Stobbe22191683122891587.2Weborg191436435- 22931507.8Cotter221776243211411456.6
Hardiman19552016936492.6
Von Lindern14681319821342.4
Conrad1432112113231.6
Wright575101102.
Westmeyer7759441402.0
Hollis6822105.8
Aul4211002.5
Totals2215116084842851041150168.2
Opponents2214696465023261060161873.6
G.H. STRIKES A BLOW FOR LOVE
(or how a college lad 
finds happiness 
through big money) ^
Face it! Good Humor 
Summer jobs pay $125 
or more weekly...-and red 
blooded youth-if you're 
(Doverl8, ©havea 
valid drivers license 
and can drive a 4 on- 
the-floor;® are in good health, you qualify. 
No experience heeded.
Drat! Another red blooded lad frozen out...cold cash gone. He 
needs Good Humor
Red blooded youth... 
need $125* a week or more 
this summer?...shell beyoursy
You on the sauce or something? r ^ , Out'a my wayG 1 weirdone!
"Average income for working full Summer during last five Serions j
Good Humor pays 
$125 2 week or more for 
summer jobs., .it’s for offering 
their ice cream products to kids and grown-ups.So m headin' for the Summer placement director or 
Student Aid
G
ST
d„a„doesitagain!
Love will out... so red blooded 
boys and girls 
donft strike out 
this summer-cash in.Sign up for interview now. Good Humor recruiter 
will be on campus this date.
INTERVIEW DATEAPRIL 8, 
1970
öl
