Men must be at liberty to guj in print whatever they 
have in nnnd to say, pro­
vided it wrooga.no one.
.-CHARLES A. DANA ,
Today’» Editorial» - 
It Still Needs Pushing 
Pretty Low Ethics 
The Track .Team Has 
Done Woll
VOL- 29, NO. 31CARNEGIE INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY; PITTSBURGH, PA.TUESDAY; MAY 28, 1935
(Alumni Hold) 
Annual Dance 
For Seniors
(Eddie Weitz* Orchestra 
To Play From 9 to 1 
In Thistle Hall
J. M. LEADS (RACE 
|lN ANNUAL DRIVE
Special Kates to Graduating 
Class Will Continue Until 
Commencement
Members of the senior. cJosswill 
be guests of the Alumni Federation 
Friday evening, at the annual Sea- 
lior-AIumni dance, to, be' held in 
jnislle Hall from nice to one. Ed­
die Weltz and fais orchestra will 
provide the music.
New Courses Offered Iii Summer Session; First. Gla ss June 10
935 Thistle 
To Introduce 
New Queen
Yearbook Will Be Ready 
For Distribution 
Next Week
Standing of the departments. •in the Membership Drive: Margaret Morrison Carnegie College 30% of Senior Class1. Home Economics2. Costume Economics3. secretarial
of Sènior :ClasB Mechanical Engineering 
Mnth*»Tn¿tIc6 Physics. .MiningChemical Engineering Industrial Education Electrical Engineering . Commercial Engineering 
Celled* ©f Fine Arts 3% of Senior Class Painting and Design 
Menmu s t b
Tickets for the dance,!'Tillich id 
Informal, may be obtained at.tl 
Alumni Office. Boom. 206, Gyi 
naslum, any time this ¦week. Each 
senior Is entitled £o bring a guest, 
not, necessarily a Carnegie student.
No solicitation of Alumni Federa­
tion dues will he made at the dance, 
At present, Margaret;-MorrlBon 
College leads in the^omnf.ine ¦•beTOfclpVdriYC.-¡Th'c-'Sampalgir- being carried on- byMrieiriberS : the senior class .whoJaire soliciting
the association icemént, June 10. The $1.50 rale entitles .the seniors lo full membership lit "the Alili
3 rate will be the usual $3.00,
The 1935 edition of the--Thistle 
will: be ready for distribution dur­
ing the early part of tiext week, ac­
cording to James M.'Latta, editor. 
Copies may be. secured-at the Chris­
tian Association, office on the -pr©-
Thie year’s book marks the/intro­
duction of several new .'features, 
of which .is the Thiatle'qtieen. 
'As the year-book fes publlsJLec^b^ 
members of the Junior class! " 
Latla said, “the staff felt that it 
would, be appropriate for the queen 
to be chosen from among the Junior 
girls." Department heads in Mar­
garet Morrison College, and the 
College of Pine Arts each 
ated three girls from the: junior 
claBB to compete In the selection 
of the queen. From this group 
Thistle staff members 
chose four girls to be photographed., 
These photographs were then sent 
iF. Sands Brunner, lllUBtrator for Curtis Publishing -Company, who ade the. final selections.The new Thistle wil. be hound.in genuine Tartan plaid and red imita^
Arts Soph 
Is Honored
Mary Hughes to Study 
At London University
News of the award of;a'Pram 
League of America scholarship 
recently received ¦ by • Mary Ann 
Hughes ’37, Department of Dra«ni 
This scholarship is for full (tuition 
lor the entire summer session 
tho Central School of Speech £ 
SrMna, affiliuleivvrith^the: .‘Oniver- 
sity of London. • Primarily1 intend' 
for students Interested- in -.lit­
erary and drama study, :the‘Gchoi- 
wahlpa are also given tor ft? e ptfr ¦ 
Pwe of promotinginternational 
MderaLanding.;. " - ^’i"- "'. .-u:';
Miss Hughes, who is a resident jt Aiiquippa, Pa., -wiil-sail from New-York on Jiuly 6 and will re« J>m*bout September 25. During her stay In ¡England she. is- plan­ning to visit' Oxford, Stratford-on- MOB. and Malvern. .Sh^.is .also, planning a abort visit at the Uni* yerslty of Wales, where she was attendance during 19s2.alir iiughea: who- cntere in 1533. i9 a member vi «amnia Gamma Gamma' -sorority, «he Is also a member- of Cwena, wphomore glrla’ honorary.
Gradinate Student 
To Give Recital
The Department- at -Musl< 
t**»ent Gertrude Breakstone, 
on Sunday. eyeiiitig, June 
. —n the Theater-: ot. the Col- 
e6e Of Fine Arts:-' T1\1n ¦will'- be 
r*e of three graduate recitals “Moico students- 
wj«1« program is :as follows; rndel - . . Recltativo ed arla ^finiondi , *'VieniriO'iE1gUo’! .(<. II, Dalcroae.. ... I^s dem- 'Vidalr.Qele coeur; Chaueeon .*• a l’epouse::'and Poldowskl • Cythere: IntermlsBlon.- ltl, SchlutDgs .. -,,' Wle wander-Schumann .';••• .* DerHidalgo;Wlr- wandelten: 'and ¿¡;LU*5 - . . Wiesontenwir-ge- t««® cie halten. TV. Granville Ban- TSL ' * • The Celestial Weaver:, iio» Alden Carpenter ; . The that flits ••• on; baby’s • eyes: u.5jr Quitter -.Spring, is.attil nT; Armstrong Gibbs •;Eyes; and:Seneca; Pierce;.
Allegheny Mu6ic Head 
To Be Guest Instructor 
For Third Year
REGISTRATION DATES 
HAVE BEEN SET
Mueic- Courses Now Open 
To .School for First Time 
This; Year
The 1935 Summer session ot 
Carnegie will open Monday, June 
10, when the preliminary two 
weeks.’ course .in' Wood-working 
and-Practice téachlne in tho Col­
lege of Engineering will begin. The 
undergraduate,.courses in the Col­
lege ot Engineering'irill begin 
June 1« and. v'èxtend for .-eight 
kveeks..’ending Áughst 8.The courses in-; Architecture Ir the Collège of Fine Arte will alsc begin on June IB but will last only Until-July - 2$. The remainder ot .the summer courses Including those in Art, Music, Drama, and Ii dustrlal. education will begin o June 24 and continue to August 2.In .the summer.. session, • several graduate subjects..are to-bq'offer- ed. The Department of Music will continue with its program leading to the master’s degree in public school music. The Psychology of Music, a course which is available in only-two or.three schools In the
M aj 0 r- G e m Mar kam ; Will Be Guest Speaker 
At Commencement;
D. Sc. Degree 
Is Awarded 
To Six Men
Scotch.Another of the featurés scratchboard drawings .by Robert S'. Robison, art editor.-;,The .Thistle -iiiijBtc&tfid.•3pvfr these drawfnggj whrdh "'aré prepared on a. chalk surfaced card­board - painted; .with '.India ink. Scratch outlines are-made with a sharp tool, somewhat like the pro­cess. followed in making a woód | cutFollowing the practice of dedicat­ing the book to some prominent fac­ulty /^-member, Prof. • Robert ~ Lelghou .was chosen this year. Prof. Lelghou Is Professor of Chem­istry at Carnegie, and. .Director, of the summer.-'school .session.Other sections will Include write­ups and pictures of seniors, plc;
country. has-bft<addpd to tLi curriculum id the College of Fine Arts. Professor Morten J. Luvaas, head of the Department, öf
__ the third consecutive summer.This summer instead of admitting only-stulents from the Department] of Music, students from any de­partment on the approval of Pro­fessor .Luvaas, j. It singingbe'stimulated. - ........? After a two years’-lapse- the Dal;;CTOT^EhnfthtiHfe^Cla0B6s^Hre--ta'be; continued.'"Dramp school courses,
Student ? A ctinities Building 
DesignedhyHenry A. Jandl 
Would Be 'SitMated on 6Cut’
Thesis of Architectural Student Does Away With 
Brown House Remodeling'.!- Ian; Substitutes \J 
Structure Fina need by Building Fund /
on the phrl
Trusteeship 
Conferred On 
John Láhoon
By John K. Shear J
"A Student Activities Building 
tor Carnegie/’ was the subjeptj 
which Henryv A. Jandl, a graduate^ 
student In the Department of Arch-, 
liecture, ch'oBe for hls'théslB. ; o Mr.--Jandl!fl -deB.IgouitaioWB^or.^ large auditorium for ..-etudent asì. sembiles,;re'çitalB, and pláys by the.I Department'' ' ~ *
^g' -would .be" located
applicable in fulfilling the require-1 ' mente of the M.. A. degree ‘ Music Education.The Registration dates for the summer session .are as follows: June 10. 1:30-2:30, registration, for preliminary courses in Woodwork­ing and Practice Teaching; June 17 9-00-12:00 and l:00-4:00 regis- 
tratlon for undergraduate, courses In College of Engineering and courses In the Department of Arch- Itecture; June 21, 9:00-12:00 and
auditorium, such as a green rooxni a large stage, and
record of alt actlvi- tles',‘and write-ups of the achieve-, ments of;faculty members during the. past year. •SlBcc advance sales went rather well, according to Mr. Laita, there will bo only a limited number of .Thistles left for late sales. These .may be. secured also at the Chris- tlan- Asspdfttion office for $3.50. ..'
Faculty Members -» 
To Have Outing
Annual Picnic, to Be Held 
At Parish Hill, June ^^
1:00-4:00, and June 22, 9:00-12:00, registration for courses In Art, Mu- plc., Drama and Industrial Educa­
tion^-'./ •;
Dormitory Council 
Elects Officers
Carnegie faculty members‘and
picnic at. Pariah Hill in North Park 
the afternoon and evening of 
Saturday, June 8.
The Faculty Welfare Committee of which Mr. Kent Shaffer, Instruc-
pic- -for
. During the course of the after­noon and evening- mushball.--.and baseball games will be played, while neaTby tennis •• courts and a ¿dimming pool will furnish addi­tional amusement.In case of rain a pavilion equip­ped with tables may be used foi 
shelter,. Later'ening there the shelter
Coming Events
’ WaÜJiew i ïipfey -jwillt1
•• i«8o—Organ Melodies, by Clj-de (English — Station WWSW..r- ’> from Little Theater. 
Wednesday—8! aO^Isectu 
v Ray. .•Du.._..„.George^ E. Uhlenbech^-Came-
gie Union.
Thursday— ... . .; i : ao^-Carnegle : Symphony gujA lm chestra: under'-direction of «. I • Vic" O'Brlen^Statlon • i—from Exhibition ,Roqm; 
Friday-r- ,."nrOO to 10:00 — Senior Alumni > ; "Da'nce—-Thistle HallEddie * ’ Weltz’s orchestra. . .
Snnday-
J; Roland Hill Is Presid.ent; 
Ralph Herbert* Secretary 
j Hpland, Hlli.;36, Ralph. E. (Her­
bert; !3&i.and,I)^y;-C.Kenn ’36, 
were- elècted pveBtdent.' se'creiary 
and 'biidgét dirèùttoT respectively, 
of tìtfrmitory ^o'|ricll for the com­
ing At the ,meeting. 9* the, 
irgaiizaUon. Ab-ifthe same timfe 
the > Connell ' Admitted to member- 
shlp the three Tecen.tly .èlected Jun­
ior' representative,1 .Robert Hor­
vath, Boss Hall; Glenn. Danghton, 
Scobell Hall; and Arthur:-.;Hughes, 
McGill Hall. Welch;; Englebrecht, 
and Miller Halls did'not choose Jun- 
members this year: since’they 
not have enough resident < stu­
dent« to warrant two representa- 
veB on council....
Last Wednesday the - Council 
sponsored the Brat men« dormitory 
stag party at ..The PiHes. Follow­ing an interdovmltory mushball game the students dined and were entertained ;bv three professionaldancers.and the: McGill «all duet
composed of .Frank Dellamano. .«««, and Steve Terebus ’36. ••Prof. John M;- ’Daniels,-. Department ‘ of , Civil^gi3eerlQg>.ao<l..iMr^JVi.:-5...-.S‘Lhon;
vizner Department of,- »Electrical Engineering: rWere thè. ;faculty;- ad- Visera for the occasWtUr.
Women's A• A• Board 
Introduces Neu> Sport
dressing rooms:Included also is: large= mémorial hall .dedicated to the founder and be used. for re- iptioma and other social func-i, with adjoin- Henry A. Jandl Ing loungeB for • \and'women. and an office for the director; a room for- quiet reading of magazines and . pewspa- a'modern - cafeteria - to- replace the Commons as well as rate dining rooms to' take::care..of banquets;; a large -number::, of rooms for student-actlvltles^.snch __ publications,- student;; govern­ment; honor,ary fraternities,, soror-
^ilatlon and" parking space. 
visïlr. : Janâl cümp'leted hle. rendu, vàsrepal^dhs^^éb^faaÆ- it-*e9^been‘| o&exhlbitlon,- along with- w6rk bÿ otber gradnàtes .of. thé depàrtment, duiîng the last week, in present- ing^hls solution, he shows, (see Cut): a plan. direct élévation, -sec-- tloi^' .prospectives,* ’ and a général plo&plan. The flrst floor woold be màd[e up. taf the . auditorium, :the meiçorl.ai hall, the -lonnges, and the large cafétéria. The various r-----
New. Member of Board 
yoo Is Carnegie Graduate .
In Engineering
John -F.! Laboon, Carnegie grad­
uate and president of the Carneglo 
Athletic: GoimoU-was:i^«P^ntly ap- 
pointed--to ^--tb'e./BoarQ;.pfTrusteed 
of the Carnegie’.iBBt^
____t wouJd'.beva tar- better, solu­tion than the Brown house, remod­eled,'could ever'be; , and that . It would , completely do away with any possible'need of e- clock and bell tower as a separate unit. - ; • The design-also/houses very .cap-
the r Exhibition' - room' ' for ' such broadcasts as. the-.Tartan Quarter Hour fend the recitals, of the De­partment of Music.
dock toVer connecteQ--wiihv.1ie building proper. ' - : the annual-architects' dinner lastThe intentan le^ that, the build-1 week;
People You Ought to Know...
By Guy HatfeH
.-G^negl^Jbistltuteioe/^ohnolo^y^' 
Mr.’ Labo'on'.was graduated from 
the Department of Civil- Engineer.
1912. He Is a member of the 
engineering iflrm of Chester, La- 
boon, Campbell and Bankson.' He' 
is also a member of the Amer 
Society of Civil Engineers; and the 
Engineers’ Society of Western 
Pennsylvania.Last April Mr. Laboon was given _ responsible position in the Fed- eml-Stato relief organization Western' 'Pennsylvania by being appointed- works' director' of the Al­legheny • County Emergency Relief
Company D Wins 
R. O. T. C. Award
Prize Company to - Receive 
Engraved Cup, Ribbons
Company D won .the company
Frank M. Keck,, Chief Engineer
At the head of the .machines whieh take care of Carnegie Tech’s heating, ventilating,: and .electneal supply stands Prank Miller.Keck, whose; duty is to see that-the buildings of1 fair institution: are-kept properly heated, ventilated, and electrocuted. We probably never stop to realize the constant work needed to maintain, proper living conditions withm them.If we • were all to have the prlvi-^—------------------:--------------------lege of talking to Mr. Keck; we . flight of iron steps to where the might better appreciate it. / various pipes start on tlielr wavMr. Keck graduated from Car-/around-, the circuit of the many 
uegie in 1912. He- first became- as- / sociated with the school .in. the
Baccalaureate Sermon 
By Dr. T. W. Graham 
In Music Hall .
Honor Given to Largest 
Number in History 
Of tbe School
Au>a<x6mpitBlim^ntj-never before 
achieved „will:, b® ronlized - at 'Com; 
fflencQmeiitexerclsefc June 10, when 
six.Carnegie fellowsi reoelve.the.de' 
greei ¦otDoctorof Science. This le 
the highest dogreo awarded at Car­
negie
In the' history - ot the school' has there-been a, Com- nenoemetit-nt which moro thnn ;hrde-such-degrees have been coi ¡$rred. f\;ln' H.22 only: one doctor’ degree'wiiB r a>varded, os was th ^¿ 1923.' Nine years' olapsed
before-any
STUDENT MARSHALS 
NAMED BY COUNCIL
doctor’s degrees 
were awarded.' in '1932 - two such degrees were : given. Since then there has been but one doctor's, de­grees awarded ea'ch-year.-• - 
Only two honorary degrees have been conferred by, thej-.Carnegie In-.
conferred on Edwin H. Anderson, Director of New York Public .Libra­
ry In 19^5.
1 The-degree of. Doctor, of Sclenco will be conferred on: Boris N. Dan- iloff, .Research Fellow ¡to. the Wetal-'‘ ' Advisory Board; Leo Kase-1
'ellbw in the Coal Research | Laboratory;; Rush A. Lincoln, Teaching Fellow in-tho Department of Met^Uutgy; pavltl! L. , McBride, ReBearcfi:'Fellow on the: M6tallur- gicAl Adyleory ^Boar<l:, John J..:S.: SeppStlaii, student; in jthe • Coal:.Re« .searck'-liftboratory; and William-J:
-[ D^partmenUot! Sclence. v . ..
Jr. Engineer 
Wins Award
Memorial Scholarship 
Goes to j. Meenan .
presented annually ito' a member of the junior claBS. by tho-alumni of the Collego of Engineering. Tho scholarship was founded by the alumni in memory : of . George H. Smith, president, of the first class of-Carnegie. - —-Mr. Meenan, a student In tne Department of Civil Engineering, has been active on hoth-the crasa- country-'-and-' track- »teams:.- - His home ls ln Pittsburgh,The applicants were Interviewed by-a group of alnmnl. Thomhs N. Griggs ’24. is chairman of the —
QraduationProgramlnoiudet 
Conferring of Honoré, 
Degrees, DiplomaB
At the .Commencement exorclBCft/. 
whlch will be ‘hold \on-,;r--Mónday-' 
morning,' Juno 10 at ,10:30. in Syrlft 
Mosque, Mnjor-aene'roi-Èflu^fi^i^ 
Markham, chief arliiy engIneer, Syill 
bd thO gueBt speaker« . ,Dt; Thom«é\ 
Wesley Graliàm.-Dean' of tho gràd- unto School or Theology 4t Ob^iln College; will -deliver, they Baconlnu- : reate sermon at . the ' BorvlcoB-.in- Curnoglo Music Hall/ bn Sunday-' ” evening. June fi at 8‘: 00. ;Commencement.Program - . Processlonnl—Coronation March;............. .'KretachmeTStudont Symphony - Orchestra, De- ~ 'parlment of Muslo, J.- Vick O’Brien, Conduotor.Chorale ..................... AlbertThe. Orohestra : -,Invocatlonj.i.......Address k .........Wivjor^Oenernl . Edward ;. M. -. Mnrkham. Chief of Ungineore, United StnteB Army,Prelude « - « « '• • « « « « « « • • Jarneiolt 'The Orchestra Conferring, of Degrees; DIplbmnB, . . ..Cerllflcales'find Commissions, p - : Announcement of Honors, ,Amorlcu.Recessiohal-^-Mftrche filarbbb bwbh Tchdtkovsky v, Baccalaureate- Scrvlae :Organ Prelude. . ..PreludQr-D'.lMa'}or-.,' Charles A. IH.'Parson.' M. A.-1922, - ¦ Organist 'V- A Capelin- Choir from Department ; of Music,. Huldah J. Kenloy, ... v;.'.V J>lrectori;; ;; ','i Invocation.Sermon -,.. i .. . . « «. . . v
.Vi hliiil', :b. Dr Deo-a.of Qraduuto Bchabl of. Theology at Oberlln College. • ’ •Benediction . :Organ PoBtlude—Corlllon Sort!.
Demtris. of Pittsburgh; and Cather­ine , Adfelej. Mounger’ •: of . WinoriRV 'ii Massachusetts. • ; - . 'All graduates.muBt attend com-:; mencement or present a satisfac­tory excuso to- the- Director ot Col­lege In ¡advance. Seniors, must ^e»,, present at '10:00 o'clock,- Monday.:. Ing In the basement ot-^Syrta
buildings. Including tbe i
clerk for Pres-- ident Ham- merscblag; ,rln 1307 he enroll­ed in-the De­partment -of
~ A new activity: Modern Dancing,
will be introcluced. by the Women s 
Athletic- Association ; -JBpatd. next Vear ' 'Eleanor.. Coon, a junior -in the-Department of. Painting and Decorating.- ; has -been«, app.ointed manager of the Bporl for .the com .
^Thè • installations .of- this athletic activity: the' tenth: on the.-W. -.A. A listi has been broughtribout by the increasing :popularity...of crea­tive dancing- at- Carnegie as evi- denced bv ^tbecorganizatlon, of the. Rhythmic Ensemble; by. the sup­port given. the; Ballet,, and, by..-the Inauguration of modern .dancing as an' electlve-iport'forofreshn
men students of Physical; tión. ~
time ij.he ? did maiiy> things, 'aiiìòiig-TÌW.c were getting, married; working for the Westlng- house and- DyqUesne .Light Com*, panies- and, .doing • some .under­ground- cable . work, Mr.. Keck 'rer. turned to Carnegie. . Slpce then he has takeover *he manige.ment.' of the C. I. -T. .lieating and. power plant, and under his supervision.' it lias-been run very efficiently^;-^-.Rather than talk; about .himself;. Mr. Keck ' prefen-ed to: flh.ow.:-me! around the' spic:and-epan -anachiii'! ery. ot which he Is naturally.^quite proud- - Leaving the lower -floociof Machinery Hall, we went doi
dormitories, and the houses that line Margaret Morri­son street, to say nothing of the main buildings of the school. This subterranean level preaei eerie" sight to the uninitiated, for
of-huge pipes, each painted in .a more or less-brilliant color.. This coloi -.scheme is . employeiUfor a definite purpose. For -. instance, a red pipe means live-steam,- an orange one contains the heat for the heating system, a yellow one means exhaust' steam,-.-, green car­ries the-return water for the holl­ers--and.-a somber blue one.the hot wster..for^ the-vraBfe-roeme.• Mr; Keck (now- don’t get discour- aged- frlends—I reallze that this is
your' somewhat bewlldered-.report: er^down Into the.; very.t bowels of 
tli^...-;ea'rth:' via. , a-'dlziylngi.spiral, etatrway.i'to where the. huge boil-, ers-do^ their respective stuff; or is It- stuffs? Anyway, there are four, of;them.. eaclir blg-'enough' to hold^ a Democratic conventlbn-jn.-When Mr Keck-opened the tfBbr of the. onfe that- was going full blast, I ’t going to he a
the • miHlary - idepartment -^e^l arately- and then thfr^corea:were.-i( taled. Robert .-St^nab, Signal Corps senior ot the1 ftefrartirient of Physics, is the company commander;' He will'be -awardad*an 'erigraue&{ saber, the members wlll^- receive service; ribbon to be worn on th« blouses, arid the company ^rlll'i celvè a cup engraved-wlth its nani The corps area, commander’s In­spection was made May 16 and"17 by Col. Ralph T. Ward, Engineer and Lt. Harold. O. Blxby, Signal 3orns. assistant to the.corns area Ignal • off leer.. The Inspectors ex­pressed themselves as highly pleas-
1» to July 2». Inclusive. Visitors are welcome at camp; and the i here of the R. O. T. C. are urged to extend to their friends an Invita­tion to come to camp, particularly on visitors- day.
declded:'that:l.wasn't golng to h ^^(Continned oa Page Two.)
Wacplwn Puppet 
For Sale Today
>The final Issue of the Puppet foi tho present school • year, the Travel Number, makes. Its appearance — thé’ campus today. The -price, usual 1s fifteen cents.;Looking ahead, to Üie long
vacation travel. The outstanding feature will be ..- Jo.e Jackson Grins.’- the short story of Neal Vinson *3f>, Department ot Mechan­ical Engineering, which won first
Michigan U. Professor 
Gives Physics Lecture
Dr. George E. TJhlenJjech, Profes­sor of Physics at tho :TJnivers!Ly.-of Michigan: Ann- Arbor.- will deliver a public lecture tomorrow-nlght-.at 8:80 o'clock. It will be In- the Car­negie Union, Administration: Hall.-The subjeot-of-hls-lecture wiU-be.'The Theory of Beta -Ray- Disin­tegration." - No cards of admiSBlon -will be required." Mr. TJhlenbech 
D..-degree at-Le taught ithere from . ls2B-2
He ls .a fellow - in-' the American Physical Society. : and Is a member, of'- the Dutch' Physical Society. .Theoretical . ^ physics; . - Quantum theory7of' spectra. - kinetic theory
lubjects' Qnswhlch^'hehasMrTilteft.
Hill¦ ii. siili
-!1S|
íiilÜ
- Caps-and gowns, which must be worn .botli. _ at, the ¦ Baccftlaureat*» Service ~ acd at Commencement
uniform collars. ;wh|ch may. ;, be obtained at.the Bookstore fprv twenty-flve. cents. >. 1 ,
Honorary Groups 
Formulate Plans-
prize in the récent short storyored by PIN Delta Lpoi- natlonal journalistic fra«
LeBter D. Van Valkenburgh:'»6, De­partment of Aeronautical Engi­
neering,. ..... .....The- staff plans to make several changes In . the general makeup of. the Puppet during .- the summer months .which will toe featured, in the registration; Issue In Sept< her
j : Campus Broadcast
rectlon of J. Vick O’Brien from l:30; to 1:45 p. m. -The orchestra will offer-the.opera,'"The -Roses of Mer- catel;".'composed'by :the director of ; the orchestra, J.~ Vick- O’Brien. The story'and. dialogue were writ­ten- bv-vCol. Frank : Parker Day.
Department ¦ of.Music at Carnegie William- ' Davis , ’ and : Benjamin Yaffee:of the Department of Drama will portray .the spoken rllnes; ;..Thispresentationwlllbethelast in a- serles of .radio hrqadcasts irom the Carnegie campus' '-«V
Alpha Chi* Alpha, Pi. Delta :-. 
Epsilon Elect Officers ...
Carnegie’s -journalistic honorarles elected officers and made plans foiv-v. activities, during the coming .year , last week-end.Alpha Chi Alpha. , women’s na- ... tional Journalistic honorary,- electr ed the following officers at a meet-- Ing held in -Margaret Morrison last. ; .;: Monday:- Emily- Kramer -36,.presi­dent? Dorothv Booth :a7, secretary; - Blva Hendel '37, was elected r6pre^. - sentative to A1 Chi. tho society’s, national magazine- Dean Green entertained the nem-r bers-. and pledges of. the honorary,;.', lostr Sunday-, afe;-her- homo ria^thc;*.;^-; Ruskln apartments. • Pledgea .will;-;,~v be Initiated Friday \ evening-cprert:;^ •ceding a; dinner; at CameglB. rnn.- ' :.-'.^.'PK Delta • Epsilon;, national!,'pub- : ..T licatten^ honorary, elected, the ;1fol- w5; lowing officers - at a meetings held-; ..< at the .^Beta Theta • Pi -fraternity^ 
last. Buildav.'<. James \M.-;Latta--^.fa?v; was re-elected ’-president: • Edwards E; McDonald; night:student,;waScjei!iLL elected vice president; and.-Eraeb^av-v , C—Swiie)iB.ueri..'«i.ft: was e.iefi.tedzee^^^.v retanr.- .-.Following- - the t elections.^asS?: banquet .was ¡held for the-pledgM'T^ and members...• ' Plans for next year rinclude^an«»^ otheic ebort- story cohtefee^elmyar^S; to the one which •ffas received .wittir^i.lj such; interest this - season. ;; ^ vAfcameetinglastvTxieBQay.vthtf^-*, following new offlitR for th« >*ar 1 36 were elected by the nop-bers of PI Alpha D-ltn, Prlntlnn 
Department honors v 1 .Rrb^rt J McFarlin pmldent J R!3lttiid’HilV?*ic*Pr*Mdent:''J,ei E'. Kappel, treaaowf,*>; " Ji4uet,:e^tte-;nt^-

---------------------------------------------------

THE CARNEGIE TARTAN, TUESDAY. MAY 28, 193S
<3Ttic dTatrtiecjie STartaa.
A'tirérliáthgiMiníi'g'tr-
.1,'?ÍKAXfoNAi; ABERTÍSIMO: apB-VICE. INC.'-1Í Wort Foriy'-»«cbQd“StreetT NewYork ... ¦
ASSISTANT MANAGING EDITORS . ASSISTANT FEATURE EDITOR: tJUNIOR EDITORS: Loulee Bald; Dorothy Booths Rlehanl Bjrrne,¦ Homer; William Lord. Alberta 1
REPORTERS : RobertGarahan. B«tty
SPORTS STAFF: ^gtno ^Fei 
BUSINES I^STAFF : Robert' .
cnberger. Mur Lou S “ » Fnller. Robert I
It Still Needa PushingT
HREE major accomplishments stand out 
on the records of the 1934-35 Student 
Council. First we recognize that tbe Spring 
•Carnival was most successful. Secondly, we 
saw better'control over school elections. But 
' ûn accomplishment which was truly outstand­
ing was the progress madb on the activities 
building question.
Last year we were enthusiastic over plans 
for' a Clock Tower. Council becaiu? inter-
- ested lu the project. Biit the plans-were too 
"vague. The proposition had not been carefully 
. thought out. Emotional enthusiasm Is not a 
. sound foundation upon which to build. A
.straw vote on November 6 showed that tbe 
students were not in favor of a- Clock Tower.
' A widespread belief, that the funds spent 
on the erection of a Clock Tower could bd put 
, ;into-a'building which’would serve a more 
practical use, was one of the reasons why the 
Clock Tower plan perished.
Close upon the heels ot the straw, yote Stu­
dent Council began considering the question 
of an activities building. The Brown House 
was suggested. Although there were several 
. serious drawbacks, due principally to the loca­
tion and architecturat-features of the .Brown 
House, Council realized that even a temporary 
. building would be an improvement over pres­
sent conditions.
V.' Annually a sum of money has been set aside
• by both day-and night Student Councils which 
' will some day be used for an activities build­
ing. The balancé es now about $18,000.
Members ot Council have recognized that 
- even though thè.Brown property cou]4 -ba s&-. 
cui\ed from the school it would be~ merely, a 
means "to an end. Eventually Carnegie must 
have a permanent building which will accom­
modate all collegiate activities.
We are now laying plans for a third and,
• we hope, inai proposition. The ultimate de1-
• elre of every Carnegie undergraduate—a per- 
. nsanent activities building. The Tartan and
• the Activities Building Committee of Student 
'Council. wlli Çuah the proposal to the utmost.
' . A graduate student in the Department of
- ' lAxchitecture has chosen “An Activities Build- 
, ','ing, for Carnegie” as the subject of his thesis.
\ < Thè; plans, .If carried out with a few minor 
yV>cheiAgea; -would' give’ Carnegie' the finest- slu-
I^n* union in the country.
;Tr ' .V'iThe..'students want an activities'building.
'There la a very definite need for such à struc- 
iV-turer.;.. Student Council is behind the move- 
•/. -.'méat. The administration is favorable to the 
(/proposal.
^"Carnegie’s Board of Trustees have never op. 
*osed-any project which they believe is for the 
V,-welfare of thé student ' body. They : did hot 
' ' oppose the Clock Tower nor the. Brown. House, 
v-t&eÿ .merely waited until student opinion set- 
--; ; tled.uppn one definite object. Tliat object!’
•' ls‘ achieved. .Council asks nothing better than 
to present to Uie Trustees the .cpmpletevpro* 
' . gram for the erectionof a Cat*negl6 Activities 
'‘.'building, . ¦.. ;
If the Board of Trustees will co-operate 
may look hopefully at the future student 
- tlvitiea center.
THE GOVERNMWr& V^AR AGAINST 
CRIME
_.. In .the.paat few years., the .criminal re.c-. ord of the United Suites has attained heights that have never been approached by any other civilized country In the world.
mated that the annual average cost of crime In tills country is gradually approach­ing the thirteen billion dollar mark.
Not until the enactment ot the "Lind-. . bergh Law”in 1932 dld Pederal law officers enter importantly Into; tbe national crime picture. This act launched the govr
in effect the Federal forces have establish­ed a splendid record in discouraging the kidnapping racket and. In terminating
April, 1934, were authorized by legislation to carry guns, soon ntade a strong hid for national attention and admiration. Dur­ing, the drive period they have .been suc­cessful in convicting seventy-four kidnap­pers and killing twenty-odd gangsters, among whom were “Baby Face" Nelson, John Dllltnger, and "Pretty Boy” Floyd, noted bank robbers, safe crackers, and murderers. Th^Treasury Department also sponsored a crime cleanup In March, 1935. Their alms were to test the effectiveness of a nation-wide crime drive and at-the same time train their 11,517 special Al­cohol Tax, Narcotics, Custom, Secret Serv­ice, and Coast Guard. agents in concerted \ action. This cleanup resulted in 2,38S» ar-: rests of smugglers, dope peddlers, boot-: loggers, nnd counterfeiters.'
A great deal of governmental legislation outlines the curbing of crime as one of its objectives. When the' N. R. A. was put into effect it was decided,that its success would encourapis tbe national war on crime because of the redistribution of wealth . and the vmd, :getting*’ opportunities it ad- vocated One of .the chief purposes .of the
WE BIT ITBMZ . . . Sucker gags' always 
make you feel' rather' silly. * The' other 'even­
ing a.mug jsllp^^ Upi tp jUe wlth a gltet in hls-
'TnfpferSbini^ 6oftiy. ." '. ” -
“Yeah?" we inquired.
“Yeah,’’ was the answer, "I’m Pershing for 
drink.”
CYNIC SILENCER. ... George Klttredge, 
dramat de luxe/ was., going to. the Beta PI 
Formal. Some 'curious -soul wondered:
Who's taking you, George?"
IMinnle.”
'How. come?”
'Oh, she nsked'first.” '-
ART-AND THE MODEL . . . Thot tall blond^1 
occasional date of "Old Farm House” Miran­
da’s Is none other-than one.of the life classes’ 
best models and are we wondering.
CAN’T TAKE. IT . . . Johnny Richmond, ed­
itor of that sterling campus ' impertinence, 
confessed in a Tartan interview of a few 
months ago that even he doesn’t read the 
Puppet . . . which makes it practically unanl-
Pretty Low EthicsS
INCE the beginning of the second semes­
ter, four architectural books belonging 
..the library have been taken from student bor­
rowers. Tlieir aggregate worth is ove:
Tlie last offence entailed the disappearance of 
a French text. This book, whose publication 
.has been discontinued since 1910. is highly 
prized by the Fine Arts library. The volume, 
Incidentally, will coBt some Innocent student 
: $12 to replace. It seems to us that-a college 
' student's ethics should be higher. Ignorance 
-ican be no plea for such an offense.
.They know better for, if such were not the 
;.bftse they would not'be here. We who take 
'great pride in the reputation of ouf schoormust 
'take the responsibility ot ferreting ‘out these 
Undesirables. Each theft from the' library 
• does a threefold harm: it hurts the school, the 
library, and the sludepts.
We ask you to think seriously of this jrob- 
Iem. not to condole it. but fight to eradicate it.
jy.Cii’s Conservation Corps was .also eitort to. curb crime. The employment of 850,000 C. C. C. men In September, 1934, took them far away from! the., slums and reestablished i'uem lu other regions. •
In December, 1934, 600 leading crlminol- iglsts, lawyers, government officials, social workers, and law enforcement officers met for Attornoy General Homer Stille Cum­mings’ Conference on Crime. The purpOBe of this meeting was to cement Federal and local police into one great family and "to prepare a way for. a definite government organization attacking the causes
plleh the proposed objectives if . they are favorably acted upon by the legislative bodies. The first resolution was to es­tablish an educational center in Washing­ton to train police in an eight weeks'-crime
Justice. The second was to coordinate crime control by the Federal and State De­partment of Justice. The third-requested Federal and State cooperation to eliminate youthful delinquency by furnishing, educa­tion. vocational, and recreational oppor­tunities. Another requested, legislation to abolish dramatic crime stories appearing
of firemarras, and convict “lawyer criminals.” A recent Crime Conference held in New Jersey and attended by rep­resentatives from the surrounding states, emphasized the same general factors. They also advocated a central finger print col­lection equipped with the prints of , all adults in the United States. This resolu­tion has already become partially effec-
ROBERT GREINER.
On tke Aisle
Prosperity: Returns; Long’s 
Guarantee Put to Shanie\
Savings Accounts Are Poor Investments as Chain 
Letters Sweep Country; Mere Dime Mounts 
Rapidly to $15,625 in Current Racket
Dear Editor
NO NICE GIRL CHEWS. .... At the TarSn 
Style Show and Dragon Dance, of -lost 'March, 
Dean Green again played a hit part'in another 
drama with some unidentified' gal as .stooge. 
The woman was wailjng for her date .in the 
anteroom of Thistle'Hall'and was quietly 
ticatlng her chewing gum when !E>ean Green 
sidled over with her juet-too-peachy-for-words 
smile and said:
'We don’t chew.'gum at our social func-
PROSPECTS OF A COOL.SPR1NG . . . Miss 
Kloos has the jump,.literally on Ma'rgaret 
Morrison in general. She gave her Campus 
queen party to Student Council in : February. 
Followups as-you go along. Price of admls- 
- one vote. Depreciation — what’s your 
reputation worth?
VIRTUOSO HUMORESQUE . . - Earl Wild, 
;e among planleta and a doubter 
raked In lots of glory with a recent 
comeback. In a discussion of Marshall: Bid- 
well, one music student piped up with:
I don’t like him, he twitters too much.” 
'You’d twitter too if you had an organ like 
that,” countered the ever ready Call of tb'a 
Wild.
SPEAKING OF CLOTHES, we See that the 
late editor of the Tartan ia..ln for a suit from 
the Music Corporation of America for libel 
his. Arts Ball orchestra .editorial. Person­
ally, if tlie M.' C. A.' collects this suit
e them get that Gawd awful three-button 
burlap that .Landsberg looks so .educated in.
ADD IMPOSSIBLE INTERVIEWS . . . Mar­
garet Sanger' and the Dionne Quintuplets. .
when Riggs (N. C.) is asked to-explain 
problem iii Mechanics- he generally adds 
touch of -legerdemain. Referring-to the prob 
lem:- quote. If you men will watch.the black­
board. I'll go through-It, unquote;-
' 'Bÿ-'VIrÔirtîâ .Mathèr * 
Huey Long guarantees us ;
dollars, 5,000 dollars 1b mere loose change. We have turned tbe cor­ner and have come face to face with prosperity. Just send 'ten cents to the name at the top of the list and then settle back .while your'I dime collects interest. Why put your- money in the bank to earn your 4; per cent semi-annually, when with tbe simple little device 
of the chain letter you Easy Street in no time? Of course there ,1s the slight drawback that someone may break the chain, put their name before yours on list but what of it? Banks fall. Send out one letter-and you i comfortable sum, two and you become a Capitalist without e the trouble of clipping coupons.
To make sure that the chain will not be. broken, make sure of your friends. In case any doubt as to their honesty arises in your, mind, you can- always draw a black hand at*the bottom ot the letter and add such subtle roinarkB as "or else,” and "my wife and six children art starving." The technique fetches them and also makes the readii 
ore interesting.
The only expense involved dime, a stamp for the
Letters ^printed are the opin­ions ot readero and should not be confueed with the editor» lal policy of the Tartan.
____t_______ ___ letter; |
and five other stamps for the let-1 ters you send to your friends. This makes a grand total of twenty-eight cents. At the end of the month, or the others on the list are as enthusiastic as you, you are abso­lutely guaranteed to be a Capitalist. From the sum .of $15.625 which you will receive .Bubtract the- original of twenty-eight cents, and your profit is $15,592. less the price of enough dime banks to hold your money. If you hove the making of a real Capitalist, you’ll cut down the original expense to five cents by forgetting about the dime and sending your lists of names on post- cardB. This is the best idea yet account for the
missing dime, you
charity, just like real Capitalists.If your accuser is a hurley fel­low, tell him the postoffice confis­cated your letter. It's always safe to blame things ou the government, and it gives you a sort of prestige over your neighbors to have some­thing to growl at tbe government
Never let it be -said that the American people are not versatile. We don’t slop at anything so un Imaginative as sending dimes. There's a chain letter for every walk of life; send-a-dollar-letters for Bankers ; bump-of&de-buy-at-de- head-of-.de-llst ones for other forms ot Capitalists, and sen'd-a-plnt-of- whiskey ones for everybody. May we suggest a send-a-good-reason- son - why-I-came-to - Carnegie - Tech letters for students. When the i5,- 625 reasons come rolling ' in, one could maybe write a theme on that subject. And how about a date-the- girl-at-the-top-of-the-list one Wall-flowerg, or Bend-your- and-address ones for Lonely I Hearts. !Start a chain letter and get a job in tbe Postoffice. After a few months of this Christmas-time con­dition in the Postoffice, perhaps Mr. Farley will reduce' the letter rate to two cents again. We picture him smiling complacently about the ituation, às proud of the teeming malls as if he’d originated the chain letters himself. If anything pulls the Postoffice Department out of the red,.' this craze for dimes
You remember thé uncertain at­titude of the Postoffice concerning the situation? How they first con­fiscated all the dime, letters—for charitable purposes, no doubt? Well, just between ourselves, they repealed that verdict because or the employes, detailed to sweep up the ten-cent pieces in which every one wallowed up to their kness, went. mad in a restaurant the other day and choked the cash­ier by forcing his change down her
FRONT PAGE ARTICLE
MISREPRESENTS SITUATION
As a senior in tbe Department of Architecture I am compelled to write 'you that T consider last week's front page article 'ting room dlsti on of the poor« prejudiced misinforma­tion I have ever seen in the Tar­ît seems to me that tbe whole affair was not half as crude as your reporter’s misrepresentation
of It.
In the first place, everyone ,in
Ing of a riot was “fîtaged in thesenior drafting' of the Coronation I requires serious.
the night all.” A charette steady work o architect % stiff “A” plan
i say you gavé
It seems she had given
On Second 
Tko-ug-lit
By Barbara Levette
A. C. E.
Sometimes one feels that the early imma- re works of now recognized playwr' ought to-be securely hidden where they not be found and revived. How much more charitable it would.be to'le'àvé iirpeacefiil ob­
scurity Rachel CrotliPeopled than
......... . . -revealing- light ofdaj*. - The' Department of Dramabring it in^o ..the all-t
By Dorothy Dunbar Bromley ,.
The college boys and girls aren’t getting, fair break. For years we've been accusing, them of wasting their time and their parents' money, rah-rahlng and petting. Now^tliat large groups of them: are- beginning
The Track Team Has Done Well
>%*-^dNGRATULAT10NS-''are due: Coacli ’Guy 
^•\>i/. HalCerty and his’varsity track squad.. 
««{£&>:•• v.Thla is the first time in several yeare .that a.
^ i. Carnegie varsity athletic team . has finished 
:i.-":.::?the: season with its record untarnished. • *
^Although, the competition, .which the :team 
r.i-i'J : encountered was not the best, we belleve that 
4^‘ the team, was In its own class and that the 
same type ot schedule should bo made in the 
future: The students would sooner see the
various teams meet squads of their own cali­
ber- We become discouraged: watching a 
whlch ls not the equal of Its opponents.
i example of a certain period in the Ameri­can theater and in the development;of Miss 
Crolhers. . 
written in 1921, “Nice; People”. seeks
ealtliy young .wayward and pleas­ure-loving, whoi after an unpleasant experi­ence with a friend of her own set, Scottie Wil­bur, forsakes her «evil city ways and . lives quietly and industriously In the country with the aid of her Aunt Margaret and a noble young man, Billy Wade, who exemplifies all the virtues ot the model'hero. Needless to say they fall in love and plan to live in
aforementioned unpleasant experience and dia- j&iserJts her when she refuses to marry Scot­tie. Upon meeting the noble young man his paternal wrath' completely vanishes and the curtain falls with Papa extending a heartfelt blessing and a generous'bank account to the 
loving pair.
"'Nice people1’ is doue in the tradition of the well-made play, biit It has not the skill in technique necessary to disguise effectively its; artificiality. The first act did succeed in enp- turldfe somethJng..of., ihft .eplrit. oi..the. .period represented; but after that the play grew pro- gressivelv more banal, so that the final cur­tain was a welcome relief. • Apparent: through­out the play Is a straining after effect, an un­convincing use of coincidence.- 'The lightning- quick- changes-of -the. father-from^ an- attitude' of • indulgence to one of severity, and. back again are characteristic- ofvthe Javk..of. skill noticeable In the whole play. ,The production of the Departments Drama, particularly in' the .first act, was well -in keep­ing- with • the reRtlessness of .the-Jazz age de- «cribed - for It was directed with a certain Serk- lness which . set, the. mood ^for . the whole. Teddv. Sarabel Browarsky; was particularly high-strung and nervoue.-completely- in .keep? ing '"with her part in .the first act and even In the second, but quite out of character, in tho last- where • the marvelous .calming, effect of
audience.: Carl Dozer did,-what, he could with the difficult job • of: making the noble; young man seem plausible, a rather thankless job at> 
.best.-Mary Hublev was a helpful and sympathetic.
______________ _ think and
liYT'serioUfcfs about-'such moiuèetoua* subjects^ as war and peace, they are either slapped 1 the wrist by* some college-administrations accused by some publicists of indulging, in “emotional-sprees.”
At Hunter Collège five girls are still locked out of the classroom, and one/is an honor dent. President Eugene A.’ Colligan has refu'9- parley with them,'insists they bring their
By Barbara Levette 
“I have, not undertaken to perse­
cute the rich, but, on the contrary,
I haye sought to favor them.”— 
From a speech.-by. Huey P. Long 
-ia the United States Senate. (Co) 
-gresslonal Record. May 12, 1932, 
Seventy-second Congress. First Ses­
sion).
-This from;, a man who has se­cured a following of about six mll- llon, American workers by promis­ing to make "EVERY ' MAN'A ICING!” Yes, six million people in the United. States who will back Huey Long for President. Because he promises to educate those who can .-not get an education now, be­cause he promises to give every­one a comfortable Income, and be­cause he promises happiness where >w-’|s pain and sorrow!
Indeed, ifr -Huey was sincere- and able to carry out .his promises, we would all cheer for him. It is be­cause he is not sincere that we must fight hie,Increasing power.
In Loulsiana-,Huey had a chance • show the ipeople -how he could >vem them. t -He has -shown us, -ad we shudder at his two-faced, underhanded .tactics. He rules the state.like a.n autocrat;-he has built dummy legislature, complete­ly subservient - - -
parents along—as though th) their mothers
; still tièd
People ifou Ought 
To Know,... |
Democrat. These boilers generate'
400 H. P. less than that generated for the Woolworth building.
We then went back to the head of the tunnel, where can be seen of electric cables that carry the lighting facilities over the campus. Into the making -of these .cables went 65,000 pounds pf copper. In winter, a maximum of 7,300 kilowatt hours. per day are expended.
Mr. Keck doesn't get much chance to come In contact with the student body in general, being lainly concerned with the stu-
throughout, and Thursday night of charette has time or inclination to indulge in monkeyshiues ing. Before you allow such broad statements to bo issued for the whole school to read, you would do well to assure yourself person­ally of their veracity.
I know that nil the architects strongly resent the mistaken terms " ‘ > them by the authorities,the seniors themsel' resented the unfair punishment ap­plied to them immediately after the
several dra- mats. and some music - students, because of your notorious article, the whole department is unfairly ridiculed befor«
There was not the slighest'justi­fication for the message Dean Kee. ble intended for the architects alone to be blatted about -for the amuse­ment of the entire Btudent body.
I have always questioned the truth ol' Dean Keeble’s abrupt state­ment about our department, and most deeply . resent its rude e ploltatlon by a hostile Tartan r As editor of the Tartan, linly owe the architects
On Other.......w
lüa^puses
Hearst -Metrotsne -Banned
Harvard—(MCEA.)—Hearat rotone News have been bann^' from tho •: University:-; theater Harvard and.Radcllffe as’a re»mii of’a petllion-ifomi 'the faculty wl student body, containing 1,273 Bit.1 natures, which was presented tbe manager of the theater.
Operation Increases Personality 
University of LoulBTllleJ (MCDA.)—A woman’s personal^ was completely changed by a'^, markable- brain operation, accorij * • • * a report by Dr. Stafford Act
lobe of her brain, she .......ordinarily gay and happy, alni^ childishly so. Now, after iT0 years, the changes are mature vA
of concentration, fine- memory, egl a habit of making unhesitating fej cisions. She has a marked (et| dency of walking straight aheaj without looking to right or left.
• being placed every
-type ot wo and was never equipped for any other kind. In other words, Frank Miller Keck is just a Born Engineer.
and apology for lastweek’s inBolent disloyalty to of the finest departments in the school.(Signed) AMY L. THOMSSEN.
PUBLICATIONS CAN HELP 
CORRECT UN-FAVORABLE 
CONDITIONS
Dear Edltoi
with their many difficult problei I believe that , if such conditions public they, would.
—The late Jane Addams .....of tbe pioneerB'In securing a and unadulterated milk supply for
___the University of Illinois Co!-!lege of Agriculture'in Its original) research on the city milk supply.
Top Water Missing 
Worcester Polytechnic Insllld'l (MCEA.)—It was in the chemlsty laboratory that . _~
tho instructor finally decided to ot-| fer his assistance.
"Something you can’t find?” 
The freshman looked at his labJ instructions. “It’s this tap walw,| sir,’’ he said, turning again to shelves.
1 Debts vs.‘ Education 
ersity of Colorado- (MCEA.)—"It would be possible! for 117.000 American students Ip Btudy for a year’in European w' if the war, :debts which owed to the United States were be used for-such a purpo
they do want to know or d. t*i only think so only think they * to know what they do wanl know froqi the newspapers becanaag
What thèy wantIbluk they I 
ant to . know what they ^ the newspapers is. to 1
it has happened .<______________... that day U»|same day and not the day before.- GertnideStein.
T. R. TAYLOR.
by the junior dass. In connecUoag -wlth tbls traditionel-event, a: ber of social affairs, such as b
_________ .. wlllj .he hasplaced a puppet in the governor’s ¡-ehiir* -hav created a. whole eer-- ies of boarda-r&nd commissions • to control the state’s financial and tax structure -..throwing-the -main' bur­den of taxation on the backs of the poor; and he has transferred local 
police powers '
uáls “the fight to'éníéftalii ' béílétá,'to'' teach: doctrines and to adhere to principles opposed to the theory ot military training.”Here’s a New York newspaper that scath­ingly says “sentimentality and ignorance” are. poor weapons "with which to fight Mars." Whose sentimentality, and whose ignorance, may I ask? A mere housewife, on the other hand/ points out, “It is Just possible that these young.people have done some studying.”
________ , _ World War veteran,he “is poorer and wiser by reason, of his serv­ice and rather : ashamed of his pugnacious 'patriotism’ ' of that • period.” ' He has a son who ia opposed to war» and he says he is "proud of his judgment, which Is far superior, to what his own was at his age.” He. thinks 'has, perhaps, profited by his dad’i mistakes.” . '
Aunt Margaret and Joseph Batcheller-a.-prop-i erlv gruff and changeable father ¦PaxUcula.rly 
amusing .n
¦well-appointed;'. colleges” which, have been made possible by-rich men’s.endowments. _•
"It that isn’t' hysterical reasoning. I don't know what is.' The great universities of France and of self-respecting countries like Denfliaric^ii’S •supirorted hy- the -stace; -imt iij; rich* men’s', beneficence. Those countries realize that *11 young people have an inherent right to education as long as. they can take iL 
As people grow older they grow'mo.re coward- Too ¡many • are'. afraid to strike * 1 ,-i‘
______ . the state. In Con-_____, Huey voted for the Ch'Ud La­bor Amendment, but he saw that it was defeated in Louisiana. Huey stated that he was in favor of ganlzed labor; although in his < state labor organization Is so weak that workers on the highways, air­ports, and public buildings ' structed under the Long ' regime received as low as ten centB an hour. Yes, Senator iHuey P. Long fcag -hKJtlv -described "Loulfllana Hitler.1'
In Germany the people were swayed hy the same sort of prom­ises—college education for every- ie! a job for everyone! happi- iss’for all! We know how these omiaes were kept. We also ha'_ practical examnle of '.Huey Long
government. And--------to those who are not. aewiveu___.... . hea and- distortednewspaper articles to fight the danger -Huey-Long's • gTowipg 
power.
VACATION “DO’S” AND “DON’TS”
• In, the Woods:- .. , from
* strange wells,________ boiled, or state'certkflcd for the present- year. In
disorders.—:2.:--If yo poison ivy wash exposed part In" at least fli rJhaiof -soap, and . water. • in; a serious case see the doctor,•3. Break a burned match. dropping, ft, to he sure.th; flame.Is. extinguished. Never lea%
unless the water 1 ' for the .avoid Intestinal <
1'flrë ôt-ë'mhef büfrüng.
n>w-\pathà.;" Let tihe-.óldaters keep their hands; .offvth6f young.:.i.eoplë who. are trying to. jn'áké. thia a oetter.^nd a safer world to live In. They- ' ‘ " ¦’flo't, «tvçlt fast; in.yesterdayi a'
Troy;- N. Y.—Doing away with the the alphabetical system of grading profeasore and instructors at Ru sell.‘Sage College, for women gav« jpiit ttheir .first marks; here recently under^a.new. system-.'which either ¦paaie€, fails or-condltloha the stu­
dents
- othei

---------------------------------------------------

->TTtR^CABl^CTgi^ÌTÀS;TaJESbAtyllirAV28,-"ìl>35SPPPP
THE
TUESDAY
QUARTERBACK
¦9 ® . \
By SCOTTY CHARLES
Halferty-Goaches Squad | 
To First Perfect 
Record in Years
Skïboà^Dffeat^mtèvé h Ì j 
Unbeaten, i1 
"¦üliiïëâ Trm^ Seasofi
MushballEinal 
WoniByTiX. 
In Dull Contest
f HAUFEp,TV'S TRACK TEAM how-has an undefeated, Untied 
record to wav^ Jn t)^ roaring breeze.^ Some cynics have mentioned 
^,e fact thatthl* schedule was;a eetup- This Is not altogethsr so - 
most of the meets were with equads of approximately the same caliber 
the boys an even chance instead of stacking them up against 
teams wherein they wquld suffer :certaln'defeat. it should also be 
realized that this squad is working under difficulties of many 
g very well considering all .things. *
Congratulations, then, Coach Guy, for. pulling through with flying 
rs. We must admit the Gil Doble front has U6 gues6lng.
•NEXT YEAR’S FOOTBALL'CAPTAIN or co-captains as the case may 
will probably be elected by the time you read this. Therefore, 
predictions would look very foolish, being wrong after tbe event had 
taken place. For this reason, we let It go with dishing out our. extra 
helping of congratulations to him or them.
WHEN WE ARE LOOKING FOR A LITTLE NEWS we usually de­
pend upon tho rifle; team; lor. an Item ofveome sort. This one we 
scouted out ourselves. . '
Pitt’s rifle team-beak the Tartan shootsmen In-only one match, 
in winning this competition, the Panthers wero greatly helped by their
m____ whose name .we"forget and can’t find. After the
match the results were published in the evening paper. In the.column 
beside the rifle story was a list of P’ltl athletes'fecholastleatly ineligible 
lor competition. At this point, the Pitt number two marksman and Abou 
Ben Adhem had something * '-----
GIQLMA RUNS LAST 
RACE FOR CARNEGIE
Plebe Team Completes Year| 
Undefeated; Promises 
Varsity Material
proud of his 1936 varsity track team and Its undefeated, untied record. By winning the meet Wed­nesday from Geneva, he finished the 'season • with - the < record', of' be- > ing the-only" .coach at Carnegie to > bang up a clean sheet Although > Coach Halferty has had few really outstanding stars, as In former ' i, he has made good use of his material In molding a balanced squad.
This year the victorious Tor-1 tans made a clean* sweep of i schedule Including: P. A. A_. West*
- Track Summaries ¦
00-Tsri dash—'Won by Ferina, Tech ;
440-yBiri daab—Wbn 
(va. Tire»—51.2 ncotit
>ad. McMahon. TV*h : third! I
-"hls-name led the rost."
«va. Dlstanoe—(161 fóci threw—Won Dud,' UcCune,
mp-Nison.Ci
fwt, 10%
Plebe; Netters 
Close Season
T. X’s. .Outstanding In 
1935 Intrainurais; .
Win Two Crowns
for In the post few years'the Ge- iquad has been a ¿tumbling block. This year, how«Carnegie lads traveled to. the Bea­ver Falls track and romped oil with the meet easily.
At Geneva the. score was 93 to 42. Perlna, after running ft close
WAS WITH CONSIDERABLE ’WEEPING, and gnashing of teetb 
• learned that the olumnl-varslty golf match waB called ofi for 
r&rlous reasons, principally exams and tile physical Incapacity of 
members of both squads.
AFTER A LITTLE CAREFUL COUNTING on the fingers, .we are 
brouflht to the realization that the. 1934-35 sports year Is completely 
washed up. This leaves little for! a -columnist to say what with the I 
recent Will Hays campaign. Oh yes, Ackley.wants It known to 
and all that the pool will be open for- one and all during exams. .(That 
last statement Is limited to the male population.) '
AS A SPECIAL ADDED DISTRACTION, we are presenting' Guy Hal- 
feriy Junior on this page. The Tartan's wandering feature plugger 
who has been known to write on anything at ^moment's notice de­
cided to Invade the sporting world. Accordingly-.we willed him part 
oMhe column with,our compliments..
Frosh Feature Writer Tries Hand , 
As National Sports Commentator
The last week-end was plentiful] In 'thrills, as far as the world of I sports is concerned. -What was probably the most spectacular t of all occurred right here In own Schenley. Park, wlierein ncomparable Babe -Ruth, with • the Intention of settling the - ru- iors that he Is through for' good. i .baseball, hit' no leaa-than, thr.fee' > and-a .slDglct InrSatar-: day's game at Forbes Field. The Bambino drove In' six of - the And with all ¡: or that, the Bucs sUll won the 11 to 7, marking the third the series that they had I. beaten Boston, and bringing their- t wins to-six- out' of the last eight games.-
• Jesse , Owens, amazing ^Jegro
The University of Michigan, (Ann Arbor) boasts the honor, of having been the location of the first fra­ternity house to be built in Amerl- 1846.
m Dana College (Newark, iN. _jmes the report that a pro­fessor and another professor's wife recently helped a labor union picket a store. .
In a rather slip-shod aQtalr the Theta Xi mushball team defeated Alpha Sigma Phi U-S. The game was'marked by errors and general poor playing on both sides. Bill Splsak pitched for the victors and had command of the situation throughout -the contest. Tallying most of tbelr runerin the first four innings, the Theta Xi’s settled back to enjoy the lead they had secured. Everything went well until the last inning when, with two men out, tho Theta Xi Holding suddenly went hay-wlre and five runs came across the plate, putting Alpha Slg within striking distance. It was with a great sigh of. relief on the T. X.'s part that a third out.wns -finally secured, and the gome end* ed with- the new . champions three runs to the good.
The victory gives Theta XI o leg on the trophy with two mo needed for permanent possession.
In addition to this championship the winners of the mushball crown I won tbe intramural basketball I competition from Delta Tau Delta | last winter. The only sport In whfch Ihe-T. X;s failed to place swimming which- Kappa Sign»;, -.
Ten Pass Senior ; 
Life SavingExam.
Defeat Mt. Lebanon In 
Finale; Season Even :
The ’piBld . telmlspletiqqVwoii 
two out'Ot three ^matches1 last week 
defeating - Duquesno and Mt. l*b- 
\on, but-losing'to Pitt The Tech 
ladswhitewashed Duquesno 6-1, 
k-ere trounced by the Panthers 7-2, 
>nd defeated' the high school boys 
6-8.
In the match with ML Lebanon, 
last Saturday, tbe Tartans divided 
singles matches and w< 
three doubles contests.
The resume:
Fay beat J.amos (T), 6-1,
Bald beat Greenberg (T), 6-2, 6-2, 
Miller (T), beat Brooks 6-4, 6-4, 
Ackerman beat Overend (T), 2-6, 9-7, 6-2. Byrne (T) boat Wash*! baugh 6-3, 6-0. Evans (T) beat Sal­isbury 6-4, 6-4.
Doubles; Greenberg and Miller (T) beat Fay and Bald 7-5, 6*3. Evans and Overend (T) bent Brooks and Ackermnn 4-6, 6-4. G-4, Wogg and Byrne (T) beat Wash-
Women’s Athletics
> by Margie ..Green ...... ..
Tha.W. A. A. Boatfjs proud to' 
.jp.ort that they realty made a eerl- 
WaroeB&meetingbut^bfotlielr 
retreat-, last .Supday,Newly-elect­ed President Wettach' presented us with an excellent program, where*! In n detailed, list .ot next year's of* fairs, as well as fundamental, re­visions of the Constitution itemized for discussion. What would you say It I should announce that the entire point system tor W. A. A. awards wns abolished? Well, go ahead and say it, tor that Is exactly what - happened. This movement has been smoldering ever since we began the quesUon .of rifle awards, at least, two months ngo, which In turn led to the whits Jacket—1,000 point award.
Most of you will agree, I» that the system of earning 100 points for playing 75 points for i practices has 1 loss. Most ’ ot
the final one of tho season for the Tech plebes. The boys managed to break even, winning throe and los­ing the same number. Those who
yports ÿprtW&UâTb'beBû; flUedwith 
:^èltniùBii^na,'ri^eÎéa; !out for praotlce as regularly ,> as ^ theygû'tô'û'ChemiBtix'clQBB'with a polnt %wàrdJ'itàklng pliice of va grade goal, ¦’therè'ftyi defeating tho
by dlsi’egàrdlng lr&shtnén and soph*: •e class schedules'in arranging
to participate In the junlot and ­ lor practices, arranged, according to the heavier': olass schedules of . tbe letter. A regular hour period will be scheduled for Tuesdays and Thursdays,' during which one -oC three' or four' simultaneous seasonal sports con be pursued In oi\e prac­tice, and still another IE doslred.nt the next.__________1________•;___
Butler University - (Indianapolis, 
Ind.) coeds woren't allowed to be­
long to secret societies with young 
men back In 1S97, because It was 
suspected that one-iot tho iolUB* tlons rites was a kiss.-
THÎEKÇ3 TO
track and field meet. The sensa­tional star, branded the “Marvel of " .the ¦ age," equaled Frank i Wykoff's century.'
In tho 220' and' 440 Glolma, who has |
and Beall in the 440.
The Tartans scored three sweeps In the field events. Croft. Brown and Hall finished in the order | named In the shot put . Fltzwilson, Hall, and Brown, co-captaln of the I team, finished in the same order in the dlsüus. lnng,. Crist, all tied for first place o:
I high, jump- Fritz won the pole - “ -Ithl ‘ ‘*7and______third. Èttzwilsoa was second inJ- the javelin, and Cross was third In the hammer.. Perlna, who won the lOOValsp won the abroad jump,, and | 
James was third, 
turned In an undefeated record 1 this year to complete thé season. I They were, however, tied ln .one.| of their meets. The freshmai squad’sh'onid furnish i varsity next. year;, for the- plehes; strong, Vin 'thé >--weights .with
-CC < AT THE BACr
meli -i w «r- -aellc/l
- •"
of 9.4__, _ in, thetime of' 20.3. seconds, ran the 220seconds, ran the
able distance of 26 feet 8*4 IncheB, ;a: half-' foot':better: than the old 
record,Another thrill occurred In jolly old England, where America's Law-
from* Ohio State .'University) ¡pro* Tided,- more thrills ‘by smashing three world records and equaling

---------------------------------------------------

* ^
THE^CARÑEGIE TAHTÁy ;
THE 
CÂRNE6IE 
PLAID
F Kg« edited by Night School «tatest» çf CaTHft* 'Iutitnta ot TsciusolosT- All vlein or opinions .«xpnned In ti» «dito» •Ú eotoiDD am.'not nMumlly «nävned Yr the BdltotUl Boud ot tiw Day School
WALTER J. NOIGOT Steg»E. F. WHITE‘WlLUAM. E. HAKE 
GENEVIEVE S0HOLTZ DAVO) O. DAVIS 
' ' ContribatomIdlWrédG«*i¿' ; E- £• MdKolUL
Appreciation
With thle, the last Issue of the 'Flald. for the present school year, . I take the opportunity to express my appreciation for the coopera­tion and support given me by mem­bers of the slaff, student body and faculty. With - tbe assistance I ' have been receiving, the privilege ’of editing tbe weekly issues of the ' Plaid was made a real pleasure. .
1 extend my wholehearted thanks to the staff members, those-listed os. contributors and especially to the writers of “Night Lights,"'his­torical 'Highlights,” and “ 'Tls ^Sald.” These columnists are de­serving ot a great deal of credit for . their untiring-efforts to present to . tbe student body/ in a novel man­lier, the items of personal Inter- est to tbe Bight group.• r The polloy in.editing' the night ^'.section of the Tortan has been to present a true, concise and unbiased ¦ opinion of the .happenings both on .end offi.tbe campus. There were undoubtedly many persons and , happenings which were worthy of .praise or comment which escaped : our. attention'. .We have tried to cover every incident which would ..interest :the buBjr night student. We hace welcomed and'are thank- . ful for an?' criticisms which were 
offered, by the student body.: ."'The success ot the Plaid depends sot only, on the staff, but also, in bo email part, upon the students themselves. With a continuation ... of: the snpport shown during the -r :past month the night-section will - continue to. enjoy the greatest 
. success.WALTER X NOIGOT,- Editor.
Graduates
>•'the Plaid joins the student body In congratulating • those students who. by their persistence and - tenacity ‘of purpoBe, have success­fully completed the requirements tor a degree or certificate. These graduates are dèservlng of the highest praise, for making the .most of their- ¡time, by. sacrificing their, leisure time to further their ambi­
tions;'' .........., ,..V,One.of the most important deci*: aions In the entire,life of an individ­ual Is the choice òf a:career. There eometlraes arise .emergencies' in which the -Individual has no real freedom or^ii,9lce, but such -
‘of the decision. «
. obtain the iraining to ;do the thing ' .’to which he Js^adapted and which ‘lie wills, to' do, .provided he pay the ' price in work,’• lime and energy •>which‘ even the>;free education "* today demands,'.'Tbevman.who.doesnot enjoy the Vdoing*of the thing he must do dally,; who ,ls"not engaged- in work he -would rather do than’anything else in tlie. world, never accomplishes . the’ bestreaults of which'he is capa- ble. .vThjs main who is .not doing tho' xtiing ^he' can do- best is never . successful -In the true sense of ' reaching" hl<j..own highest, develop*. ment and of rendering his best service; nor is he. happy.^'There are many Inefficient,- happy engineers' who might have : been .successful, and contented In other professions.-; There'are many f second.lor. third-rate: lawyers, doc* ;. tore andministera .who might have . - fceen .first-rate .engineers. One of the things 'to .be' considered, then,¦ both from the' standpoint of bap; p!ness and .success.fe?-ln what di­rection lie the' tastea; and the line ...ot !greateat ability of-tbe Individ- . oal? '/¦•>* .*
;',The night student has one ad* I vantage. in, picking out that spec- v; ialty¦wblcTti will ,be most beneficial to. him by havins some acquaint* ^ancewith the circumstances which.usually influence the details of hUf ' subsequent career.’ With the-gen-' :'veral training received at Carnegie; i-’-Teph, along with the actual '/periencfe obtained from . working
Skibo Columns Aided In 
Forming Night Council
tute.
During the-first year the issue contained four pages and each page was about 6% inches by 9% Inches. Beginning with the second year the was changed to 8 inches by 11 Inches and some of the Issues w enlarged to six and eight pages.Immediately upon tbe issue of the first number an appeal was ade to the night students through the editorial column to uBe this new news medium at their disposal to the fullest extent. News contribu­tions were solicited and a small staff was named. It should be kept in. mind however that while The Skibo was financed by the Institute t was published in- the interests if the night students and its col* imne were at the disposal of the latter group.
At. times interest appeared to lag, it might be that the-lack of nee-: essary time. Kept -^ont^lbutlonB back—for all of us.Iinow.’ttia't'going: night school is a big drain oh; i’s time to say.,.hothipig3ir’ttw number of hours that are necessary! for outside 'preparation. , -Nptwlth1- standing all .tbe-'handicap$ con­fronting the night student? it Ib re* freshing to review .the insue'pf The Skibo and note the muitituflinouB
indies were devoted to night-stu­dents and their relations to activi­ties. It is interesting to note also the number of different ideas and plnnB which were advanced from time to time. In order ' to make
knowledge or technical knowledge.' e Skibo preceded the forma­tion of the Night Student Council and through Its columns much if not all of th8 data1 concerning thereof Hgnb presented. Through the subsequent years of
methods .were employed In. secur­ing a workable staff. At first it was a voluntary contribution type, followed by faculty recommenda: tion and lastly a class election type having a student managing editor. Through all its vicissitudes The Skibo functioned- quite well and ful* filled Us. mission ii V for* It helped
C.S. EDMAN
PRINTER 6470 Monitor Street
flQuiRTtETi HILL 
BARBER SHOP
; 6823; FORBES STREET/ y
¦liberty Engraving Company!
_tISilNedaP aNutsdhP n 
gTrTc kcTgmHH krDomH n 
W kGToTQcDkGLM A
COLOR,NEWS and COMMER CIAL 
—'ART—- J
FOI? ALL ILLUSTRATIVE 4 
I FURPOSES_
Historical Highlights 
— of...
Night Student Council
Student Council 
Thanks Workers
{During the-past year,-the night student Council has carried .out a very successful. social calendar.id has also conducted other ex­tra-curricular .activities on the night campus. Since the success of these activities was.: due to'the splendid support and cooperation of tbe student body and the Admlnls; tration faculty,' • the night student -Council wishes to'lake this opportu­nity of expressing their apprecia­tion to. tbe student, body and to the Administrative faculty.
To. the social committees, to H..Stone,' night social chairman, and to.' R. AV Lahr, assistant sbclal chairman,.the.CouncIl wishes to ex­press its thanks for the able work they performed in making the various dances 60 delightful and successful.The Plaid staff is deserving of especial credit in view of the changes which occurred in mid­year. The staff ot the beginning of the year consisting of H. E7. Mc- Gannon, Editor, G. W. Vessels, News Editor, -E. F. White, Wm. Hake, and Harry Ingram, Associate Editors, were a very able staff and conducted.an interesting sheet. The staff'for t&’e last part of the year; consisting of Walter Noigot, Editor, E. P. White, N$ws Editor, D.. O. Davis, Wm. Hake, and Genevieve? Scboltz, Associate Editors, was equally capable, and did fine work.John Schurko, Ed. W. Drensen and Genevieve Scholtz, members of the Thistle staff, have worked hard to better the night section and :
(The i students'who have worked ior the success; of .the activities: of ;thp i Night School have done tbis [work in.addlt on to their regular schedule, of school work. This sac­rifice-of spare'iline for the good of the whole student-body is certainly ppreclated by .the night student lounclLA-C. GRIMM.President.
i pavé the way for.'the formation of the Counci* and Berved; as a news medium for the. nlght'^tudentB.
NIGHT LIGHTS
The last.column of the.year finds us hunting V for ;-news that- haven’t dared to print'sill year- evidently < there Is nothing o_we' haven’t .dared to print' cept'oue.name—) .-. . Thtise short',
about the homework.
credit Dave-with 20 minutes,- but Bill takes.only 9? . .. . Reita. Lahr comes' up 'with this that'E>ve, didn't have i
Ing i' Al. .. .letter gang, recently':! boqglit. that has -to have . 1,70D,OWI >' other suckers before the . profits, app.ear The Plaid staff topped off the sea- son with an hitarioiis affair at the Show-boat last Friday . . ..Every­one showed up. In full force- and the editor smlle.d,
STUDENTSWANTED
Five hundred Typewriter«, all makes, Portables and .Standards, . sold,-- rented! r#^. . paired. $3.00 : one :menth^ 910.00 five months. .
American WritingMachine Company601 LIBERTY AV%NUE PITTSBURGH ATIantle 6488 .Bee. oor School representative DICK HA1IUONO 1: '
graduation 
Held June 10
Invitations Obtained At 
Registrar’s Office
the Syria Mosque at 10:30 A. ÛT., Monday, June 10. Major General Edward M. Markham, Chief of En­gineers, • United States Army, .will deliver the Commencement address. AJI graduates must be - present. Graduate documents will not ' be granted-to students who do-not 'at- tehd'.the'erercls'eBy unlèss a satlsfa'ct tory excuse is presented in advance to tbe director of the -College.- Each-member of the- graduating class may obtain three sets of Com­mencement invitations and also tick­ets for admission'to the exercises se of parente ot the graduates, without expense, by calling at the Registrar’s office. The office will be open Monday evenings from to 8:30 for the convenience of night, graduates. Additional tickets will' be issued upon request and ligbt graduates may telephone the Registrar's office, requesting that tickets be mailed.,Information fon the Commence­ment exercises has been mailed to each candidate for a degree, diplo- jr certificate. Further lnfo'rma- may be seciired by telephoning Dean Tarbell’S office, Mayflower
Decimal System Of 
Measurement Adopted
operation¦Involved In the. production of many, parts for its trucks. The new system is employ­ed in dimensioning - of- drawings and In the subsequent-manufactur­ing, operations..The., “halves,” "quarters, 'eighths," "sixteenths.” etc., up ’t '64ths” of ani Inch have been e firmly entrenched in the minds of and production men as to warrant the belief that, provement was' possible - which ould retain the ’generally, accepted ngllati eyetem;of-measurement. > ' AdopUpn;of fdecimal tractlotis in­stead of common fractldns for-all subdivisions of-the inch, obtains
without - presenting tbe dlsadvan-
Night
Profeseional Engineers 
Registration Grows
doctors and lawyers. .The . mov'e-
ional engineers has grown is Indi-
teen more, through the cffortB.of the National Society oi 'ProfesBlori- al Engineers with the backing' and cooperation of numerous national and engineering bodies. : ;It is - probably. , not generally known that the first state tov re quire the ^registration of profession­al engineers was Wyoming in 1907. Another followed in 1912 and the number has received added impetus
best be raised by official recognl-
states, of which New York accounts for about' ten thousand. The de­pression has'undoubtedly prevented many who are qualified from seek­ing registration. ' With a return to normalcy and. the -. extension of licensing to other states, this figur^ )s .expected to be greatly augment-
tagëB -which hav<
Peoples- 
Pittsburgh 
Trust Co.
Oakland Brandt
Forbes and Meyran
“THE OASLÄKD 
BANK”
IN THE 
CENTER OF 
COLLEGE 
AOT1V1TY
TUESDAY, MAY 38. 1935
Administrative Faculty And 
Council to Attend Dinner
Members of Auditing -j 
Committee Convene
School , Problems 
And Improvements 
To Be Discussed
'Members of the Administrative faculty will be thè guests of the Night Student - Council at' a dinner to be held Tuesday' evening at the Carnegie Inn. After the dinner con­ditions ; affecting the night school * progress ^111 be discussed.
r and .the :< ma<fe by i 5ht Studen.bers of the Night Student Council have always been given careful con­sideration by'the faculty. As a.mat- ter of-fact many of the'improve­ments made and new courses added the direct result of these meet-
Meetings of this ..nature have been held each year since the Incep­tion, of. .the Night Student Council
ulty.
Comments or suggestions by the students-are.always welcomed and, the faculty urges the students not to wait till the end of tbe year, to discus's these problems with them.
An announcement' of' thi6 meet­ing wab made several weeks ago' with the request that students sub­mit their comments to the mem­bers of tbe night student Council. The response to tbis request has been' favorabie -and will make this -meeting an interesting one. . Tbe problems discussed will no doubtibe given careful
faculty have been invited ias guests of Council: Dr. Baker, Dr. Ibrig, Prof. Lelghou, Dr. Jones, . Dean Green, Dean Tarboll, Prof.' Keeblo |!and -Mr. JicKelway.
Insignia Dinner Will 
Be Held Next Month
The insignia dinner ;plans s
’Tis Said
THAT the new day staff looks -very promising. Do you like brunettes?THAT by the time you read
and the amateur nlght'crize'' writer has jfone dlzxy.THAT Lole Is laid up with a trick leg. The odd part of It 16 that he can't get a kick out of
of Carnegie Inn last week, with that self satisfied look that eomee only-from a greatly en­joyed free meal.1 THAT the ambitious night students who enrolled In the supplementary term remind us of the story of the postman who ..took.a walk on his.day off.THAT a few' students have still delayed making,their tick­et returns. Maybe the P. O. department thinks they are chain letters.of the graduates
kneads. It.THAT we want more and better thumbnail* sketches:: w ( ATHAT Friday night the staff turned to maklrtg up with therr wives and sweethearts : after many Friday nights .of paper makeups. • -MM*';THAT a few students toolc a; short' Pullman ride one Sunday morning recently.THAT the faculty will be the guests of Council at a dinner;
THAT this Is the last you Will'
the treasurers ; of ‘.the’ College’ -of Arts, Engineering and Industries and the President of Council, at a special meeting held Thursday, May 21, audited the books of tbe Council Treasurer and found all accounts entered and correct. A few accounts are Incomplete due to outstanding ticket returns.
few students who have failed to make returns for tickets to the various functions. The time set for retuins to be In to enable a student to be eligible for tbe insignia award was May 26. .This notification .was-, published Inr€cdn t - issue 'of 'the Plaid to -ena­ble * students '-'to make returns 'on time..
The report of the auditing <
financially. . Tbe favorable bal* due to combined economy and efforts tof tbe separate colleges and tbe .council proper, pares very favorably with last year's. It will be remembered tbal last year’s balance was tbe largest
Some distant relatives wouldn' 
be so bid if they kept .their dis- 
tances.—IndlnapoHs News.
Send Your 
Baggage 
Home by
RAILWAY EXPRESS
- No need -to bafden yonreolf with tl
lephooe Railway Expresa and 
uid safelywell «all for the ehipipenia—.whisk them away on fast pas*
For service or information telepboi 
. 52Ç Penn Avenue . ,, ATIantlc-3S00
- .Depot Office;. 26th St. and(Liberty Ave.
Statistics Compiled 
At Graduate Dinner
At the recent dinner glren bv D, Baker in honor of the night school graduates "some c very-- inlereaUn», statistics.on the place ot birth years of attendance were comply 
As Is the custom these statietlcs are compiled to show the extent oi the territory covered by Carnegfo Tech and the persistence ol th& night students in obtaining tbeir degrees.
From the seventy-one candidal«, 
present at the dinner the foiiotfoe data on their- place ot birth wal compiled; Pittsburgh 22, Allegheny County (outside ot Pittsburgh H' Pennsylvania (outside of Allegheny County) 18, United Slates (outslds of •PennBj'lvanJa. lO^Western rA,R (sphere (outside;' bf'.the Unitei States I, - Continental Europe $ British Isles 1.
The years of attendance were a* follows: fourteen years attendance —2, thirteen years—2, twelve yeaii —5, eleven years—6,. ten years-«, nine years—10, and lesB than nioe years—40. '
These dinners are held annua]]; by Dr. Baker since he became pro. Ident or Carnegie Tech. The aboi, I
at your servie®
Hoi) and farewell, Close of 
’351 We welcome you to 
a wider telephone public»
.Depend on the-telephone. 
The same speed and cour­
tesy, the same honest 
service you found in your 
calls to family and friends 
while at college await you 
— as graduates—in the 
world of business and 
social contacts.
.¿.what’s left of your school term 
budget will take you home
by GREYHOUND
Y
OU needn’t hock your faithful ticker to buy a ticket home. The remnants of your school-term budget wili pay your fare by Greyhound.
Frequent departures enable you to leave almost any time — -yog-like;-"As-youroll aiong springtime highways, Natures clean,-fresh air will banish the'1 last dull headache of exams and put you m the proper mood for a real vacauon.
S U MME R VAC AT I ON TRIPS
Every popular vacation spot, major scenic area, and large . city in America is served by Greyhound, either- direct or in " cooperation: with, short connecting lines.- -Vacations by - Greyhound cost less and offer more than by any other first- class travel method. Ask your-Greyhound agent for details.
K. G..HEPCER,Student Valet Shop 105'Welch; Hair Phohe: ,\ SChenley 94$8
Greyhound Bui Statio®
1010 Liberty Avenue . GRant 5700
GREYHOUND
¡.«»•afe
