Published Weekly by Students of the 
CARNEGIE TECHNICAL SCHOOLS

---------------------------------------------------

2THE TARTAN
0X0\0X0XOX0\O\0\0X0X0\0X0X0\OV0X0X0X 
* 00
Ö rAInr'r,r"^‘ ¦- 
?
§0 
§ in
THE RITTENHOUSE
a
8
g
§/
go
S
§*
g
80*
*0*O«0«O«Ö«
go
0
Affords Superior Facilities for 0 
Serving Dinners, Balls §j
and Banquets.
The Ball Room floor is cushioned §
making it perfect for dancing. §
o
— §
Special Inducements to Students 
of Carnegie Tech.
KUHNS
—IN THE RITTENHOUSE
«X0X0X0X0X0X0X0X0X0X0X0X0X0X0XOX0X0X0 
0X0X0X0X0X0X0X0X0X0X0X0X0X0X0X0X0X0X 
g • »MELLON NATIONAL BANK
514 SMITHFIELD STREET 
409 FIFTH AVENUE
CAPITAL$4,000,000
SOLICITS THE ACCOUNTS OF
STUDENTS
RESOURCES OVER 47 MILLIONS.
X0X0X0X0X0X0X0X0X0X0X0X0XOX0X0X0X0X0
j5fSM3MBSi3J3J5J3IEM5IS!SMSMSEM3J313i3MSI3M3I3MSJSi3J
H. L. BLIND & BROS.
Florists and Decorators
Flowers for all occasions 
THE CHOICEST FLOWERS IN THE LARG= 
EST ASSORTMENT
East End Store:Bell 5500 Highland P. & A. 166 East 
5424-28 CENTER AVE.
Down Town Store:Bell 1101 Court P. & A. 189 Main 
LIBERTY & FIFTH ST.
SMcIMSIMSMSMMISSMSM’ÆMMBIclEISMciEMMSE] 2*0Ör*r*AI
>000000 :0000000C8?00000000000000000Î>Ï
—IN THERIOUSRI
Do you really know the advertising 
value of a school paper? Do you 
realize that Carnegie Tech is the larg­
est technical school in the United 
States—not going to be any more, but 
IS? Do you realize that 2500 students 
are enrolled here—enough to make a 
good sized town with no children or 
old people? Do you know that The 
Tartan is its only student paper and 
appears 36 times during the school 
year? Now, Mr. Advertiser, don’t you 
think it would pay to let these young 
money spenders (three-fourths are 
men) know what you have to sell? For 
rates address
NORMAN BENEDICT
0XX\ OV?O/**« —5?115 
14—5 1S«M IV55—TH?FM I4E
)¦000^0000000000000000000000? ^00000. ¦;
*******
4****************
Tech Boys’ Attention!
You will want White Overalls and Jackets. 4,
They are 50 cents each. ^fXpCorduroy Pants, $1.50 and $2.00, for general 4.
* *_ 4* - * 
* * * * * * * *
HEIMERT'SAT
Where all the Tech men go. 
3614 Forbes Ave., Iroquois Block.
SERVE
HALLER’S
ICECREAM
AT YOUR 
SOCIAL 
AFFAIRS
3618 Forbes St.

---------------------------------------------------

VOL. IV, No. 1
®artan
PITTSBURG, PA., WEDNESDAY, SEPTEMBER 22, 909TEN CENTS
DR. HAMMERSCHLAG’S CONDITION
Some weeks ago Dr. Hammerschlag was taken ill 
at his summer heme on the Massachusetts coast. 
It was found that an operation was ‘necessary and 
he was taken to the hospital where the operation was 
successfully performed. It was soon possible to move 
him back to his home where he is still resting quietly, 
gaining in strength each day.
He keeps in close touch with the rapidly moving 
events at the Schools, and though he was keenly 
disappointed not to be with us all at the opening of 
the Schools on Tuesday, the many messages he has 
sent of a similar tener to the one here quoted shows 
that he is in his usual good spirits over the start of
the new year. “I am delighted with outlook. Regis­
tration figures promise to break record and approxi­
mate 2200, but exact results unobtainable until open­
ing of night Schools.”
To say he is missed is but to express what is on 
every one’s tongue. The many students who were 
strolling aimlessly about the corridors on the open­
ing day, looking for some greeting and the char­
acteristic hearty hand-shake from the Director, are 
an indication that a welcome awaits his return to 
Pittsburg which will make Dr. Cook’s reception in 
New York fade away into the shade of the North 
Pole.
WILLIAM P. FIELD, Secretary.
NEW FOREIGN STUDENTS.
The American Scandanavian Society of New York, 
of which President Butler of Columbia University is 
president, offered three scholarships at the Carnegie 
Technical Schools for students who wanted to pursue 
their engineering profession, preferably those who 
had already gone through a technical elementary 
school, and are prepared to follow the work. After 
announcing this fact throughout Sweden, Norway 
and Denmark, three men were selected as candi­
dates by competition. The Swede, Harold Erbing, 
was born in 1888 in Trollhattan, Sweden. After go­
ing through public school, he attended a technical 
school and at the same time was employed as drafts­
man with Nyqvist and Holms, machinists, and work­
ed there from 1901 until 1906, when he entered the 
Boros Technical School. He graduated from this
school in 1909 in the mechanical department. He is 
here to take a course in electricity.
Mr. Styri was born in 1886 in Christiania, Norway.
When he was still very young he lost his father but éhis mother is still living. He went through the regu­
lar college and took what is called a student’s degree 
in 1903, which degree admits hipi to the Govern­
ment’s University. He entered the Army School 
and took 1904 examination for officer in the Reserves 
Coast Artillery and received his commission as Sec­
ond Lieutenant. He then began to pursue his techni­
cal education and entered for this purpose the techni­
cal schools at Christiania and received a degree as 
Mechanical Engineer in 1907. He worked for about a 
year in a machine shop but decided to pursue his 
studies and again entered the technical schools and

---------------------------------------------------

4THE TARTAN
graduated the following year, 1907, as Chemical 
Engineer. He was selected for the scholarship and 
intends to study electro-chemistry. He is a great 
sportsman and has during his studying time taken 
part in the official ski meets at Holmenkollen and is 
a very enthusiastic oarsman.
The Dane, Mr. Erode Kjems, was born in Odder, 
Denmark, in 1884. His father was rector for the 
Odder High School. When he was 6 years old the 
family moved to the United States, where his father 
was to take charge of the Danish High School in 
Ashland, Michigan. After four and a half years stay 
in this country, the family returned to Denmark. 
In his home country the young man got private tutor­
ing until he was 15 years old. He was after that put 
in to learn the trade of blacksmithing. After five 
years he became a journeyman blacksmith. During 
this time he pursued the technical studies in night 
school, from which he graduated about the same 
time. He then worked one year as machinist and 
attended thereafter for six months the Asltev High 
School, and was then prepared to enter the Techni­
cal Society School in Coppenhagen, from which he 
graduated in April, 1908, as Mechanical Engineer. 
Since this time he has been employed as designer for 
the Titan Machine Company in Coppenhagen. He 
has come here to study electricity.
They arrived in Pittsburg from New York, Monday 
night. They all talk fairly good English. It has been 
their life’s dream to see the center of the world’s 
industry and they said that the smoke smells good 
They don’t know anything about baseball but have 
heard so much about it that their first expression 
in this regard was to ask when the Pirates would 
come home so they could see a real ball game and 
Hans Wagner.
WORD FROM PROF. ALAUX.
Bordeaux, le, 11 June, ’09.
Michel Alaux & Fils.
Dear Monsieur Field,
I am just in time to answer your nice and so in­
teresting letter. Nice because, I see, you don’t for­
get your friends, interesting because I hope greatly 
to see you in Paris. You tell me that you prefer 
to meet me in Paris than President Fallieries. It 
is about the same, and I have presently a country 
house to do for President Fallieries. I am associat­
ed for this work with M. Trouchet architect in Paris. 
The country house must be finished in September 
and I have much to do about it.
Remember me to the students, to Ferrand and 
others.
Yours very truly,
J. P. ALAUX.
SPECIAL NOTICE.
To insure getting the “Tartan” regularly during
the coming year subscribe for it now. Price $1.00 for
the year. See the business manager.
SONG CONTEST.
The Glee and Mandolin Clubs make an announce­
ment of a competition for a school march song to 
be held under their auspices.
First: The competition is open to any bona-fide 
student of the Carnegie Technical Schools or to any 
alumni.
Second: There shall be a prize of twenty-five dol­
lars ($25.00) awarded to the composer of the best 
march song, according to the rules of this com 
petition.
Third: One manuscript may be submitted by one 
or more persons.
Fourth: The jury to be composed of two or more 
prominent Pittsburg musicians and one student se­
lected by the Glee and Mandolin Clubs.
Fifth: The decision of this jury to be final and 
indisputable.
Sixth: The Glee and Mandolin Clubs reserve the 
right to use all or any compositions submitted.
Seventh: The jury shall have the right to reject 
all or any compositions should they find that none 
are worthy of the prize.
Eighth: The Glee and Mandolin Clubs reserve the 
copyright and publication privleges of all composi­
tions submitted.
Ninth: The song is intended to be appropriate to 
all C. T. S. occasions—for marching at games, etc., 
Mandolin Club concerts. It is suggested that a live­
ly, catchy song, easy for everybody to sing, would 
be the most appropriate. It might possibly express 
college friendship and ties, and to inspire love for 
and loyalty to our Alma Mater. “Amici,” “The Yale 
Boula” or the “Red and Blue” of Pennsylvania might 
furnish a vague inspiration. For further references 
see “Songs of all Colleges” published by “Huids, 
Noble & Elldridge,” New York City Copies of this 
book may be had at local music stores.
Tenth: Both words and music of all compositions 
must be original.
Eleventh: All compositions must be delivered
without marks of identification to the manager of the 
Glee and Mandolin Clubs before October 30th.
The above announcement should arouse consider­
able interest among the student body. Coming at 
this time it gives students a little time to think it 
over and the clubs also an opportunity to learn the * 
song before the season of concerts begins.
CARNEGIE LIBRARY NOTICE.
The Carnegie Library of Pittsburg has notified the 
schools that all students not having permanent resi­
dence in Pittsburg who desire to draw books from 
the library will be required to show their registra­
tion cards when applying for a library card, and those 
now having cards must have them renewed in ac­
cordance with this ruling. These cards will be good 
until October, 1910.

---------------------------------------------------

THE TARTAN5
FOOTBALL.
Football opened here a week ago Monday when 
Capt. Hittner arrived home from West Virginia. 
Every afternoon for the past week there has been 
a lively practice, and an unusual number of can­
didates have been out for so early in the season. 
Coach Snitjer certainly knows how to get work 
out of the fellows and the practices have been very 
snappy. There has been an average of twenty five 
candidates out every day and the coach is well 
pleased with spirit shown. Light scrimmage work 
has been indulged in all week.
Saturday afternoon a game was played between the 
varsity and the scrubs. It was only supposed to be 
a practice game, but the way the fellows went into it 
made it as interesting as a regular scheduled game. 
The scrubs were lighter than the varsity but seemed 
very fast. They made the varsity go all the way 
to beat them 5 to 0. Marshall was out and tor^ up 
things in his old time form, although Durham, who 
opposed, played hard. Capt Hittner ran the varsity 
well and featured at running back punts. Flick, a 
new candidate from Bordentown, Pa., made several 
long runs and looks good for a back field position 
if he keeps going. Dolan and Robinson made good 
gains for the varsity. Robinson played center two 
years ago and was accounted one of the best who 
has ever played here. He has been playing full 
back this year and as he is big and fast he ought 
to make good. Now that school is open Coach 
Snitjer expects the squad to be doubled and with 
plenty of material to choose from there is no doubt 
that he will be able to develop the best team Tech 
ever had.
There is ample room in the new dressing rooms 
to accommodate all candidates and they are equip­
ped with the latest conveniences in the way of show­
ers and lockers. Let every one go out; if we can’t 
all play we can encourage those who can by our 
presence. This can be a successful year for us in 
foot-ball if we make it one. Manager Bright has 
arranged a fine schedule and since all of our games 
but two are at home we shall have good opportunity 
to see our team in action.
Schedule.
Oct. 2—Westminster—at home.
Oct. 9—Waynesburg—at home.
Oct. 16—Western Reserve—at home.
Oct. 23—Dennison—at home.
Oct. 30—Lehigh—at home.
Nov. 6—Franklin and Marshall—at home.
Nov. 13—Marietta—at Marietta.
Nov. 20—Marietta—at Allegheny.
Nov. 25—Colgate—at home.
T rack.
The track team under the captaincy of John 
Charles, is going to start cross country running. Capt. 
Charles has arranged with Coach Kerr, of Pittsburg 
High, to hold several cross country runs. On ac­
count of the opening of our new field and the big 
track meet at Forbes Field falling on the same date, 
Capt. Charles has not entered anyone in this meet. 
Notices will be posted for candidates to report and 
every one, who has ever done any running or thinks 
he can run, should come out. The team must be^ 
made up of practically new material as Charles and 
Hatcher are the only members of last year’s team 
left.
Hockey.
The Hockey team will get together some day this 
week and elect a captain for the coming year. Notice 
will be posted, so watch the bulletin board.
Base-ball.
Fall Base ball practice will commence very soon 
under the direction of Capt. Coldren. It will consist 
mainly of batting practice and catching flies. The 
idea is not to get ready for a game, but merely to 
get a line on new material. A captain for the com­
ing year will probably be elected at one of these 
practices.
Army Athletic Council,
United States Military Academy 
West Point, New York.
Sept. 19, 1909. 
Manager, Carnegie Tech Hockey Team
Dear Sir-:—We are just starting our schedule and 
would like to know if you can give us a date to 
play you the last part of January or some time dur­
ing February.
If you are making any trip east, or have any other 
games in this vicinity, it might be convenient to ar­
range our date about the same time
I would be immensely pleased if we can arrange 
this, for I would like to see my old “Alma Mater” 
play again—being a former member of the class of 
1909, Applied Science, C. T. S.
Sincerely yours
PAUL SORG REINECKE,
Asst. Manager.
SPECIAL NOTICE.
To insure getting the “Tartan” regularly during
the coming year subscribe for it now. Price $1.00 for
the year. See the business manager.

---------------------------------------------------

6THE TARTAN
% M. M. C. S.
Î
Welcome is not as appropriate a word with which 
to greet the gathering forces of the Margaret Morri­
son as that which Miss West used at the Jirst gen­
eral assembly Tuesday morning. Hail! is the old 
forgotten way of greeting comrade?, and was suc­
cessfully revived again in a very warm welcome by 
our Dean. So it is Hail! to the old friends of the 
Senior Class, and Hail! to the jolly Juniors, and Hail! 
to the bewildered little Plebes.
Little yellow cards are again in evidence, and woe 
to the person who has allowed hers to become lost, 
strayed or stolen.
Opening day was noticeably quiet and peaceful. 
Credit should be given those to whom it is due for 
keening law and order on such an occasion. To be 
sure, a few Plebes were lost from their respective 
classes and wandered excitedly over the building, 
but Mich things are not unusual during the first 
week.
The Senior Household Arts girls prepared a very 
brave lunch the first full day of school. It is under­
stood that each day will bring forth something better. 
Let us wish for the successful fulfilment of this im­
portant undertaking.
Several of the graduates cculd not bear to leave 
the school, so have come back again to join the 
Senior class in the study of dressmaking.
While the majority cf the girls went pleasure seek­
ing from the beginning to the end of vacation, sev­
eral of the Seniors employed their first month or so 
in other ways. Francis Rayburn, Helen Oursler, 
Sarah Williams, and Florence Ramlack. helped con- 
scienciously to teach youngsters how to sew in the 
Pittsburg, Allegheny, and Southside playgrounds. 
Marguerite Law is another of our diligent workers, 
having spent her hard-earned vacation in Carnegie 
Library.
Only one girl left the Senior Class not to come 
back again, but a number of Juniors deserted their 
ranks.
Owing to the scarcity of out-of-town girls, there 
will be no dormitory for the Margaret Morrison this 
year. Those that are from distant cities have found, 
or must find, their own homes.
Among the graduates of M. M. C S., Miss.Donahoo 
is employed in Dean Leet’s office and Miss Scott in 
Dean West’s. Many others are taking post graduate courses.
Interviews for admission to the night school will 
be held September 30 and October 1.
ADDITIONS TO THE FACULTY.
Wm. E. Mott was chosen Professor of Civil Eng­
ineering to succeed Prof. Foss who has accepted a 
similar position in Cooper Union. H. K. Myers will 
fill the place of Special Lecturer on Coal Mining. 
Lloyd B. Smith, who is a new instructor in Geology 
graduated from Pennsylvania State College in 1906 
and has attended several sessions of the Harvard 
Summer School. L. B. Taylor, instructor in Engine 
Design and Wallace P. Hurley, Purdue ’06, assistant 
instructor in Electrical Engineering are new addi­
tions to the Applied Science faculty as is Jacob 
Tanger, assistant instructor of English who received 
his Ph.B. from Franklin and Marshall.
In the School for Apprentices and Journeymen 
Robert J. Peters is Instructor in English. He re­
ceived his education in Franklin and Marshall Col­
lege; Heidelburg College; University of Chicago and 
Oxford. Wm. Teemer was chosen instructor in 
Plumbing and Paul Dorweiler of Highland Park Col­
lege, instructor of Mathematics. James S. Dodds will 
be an instructor in Electric Wiring and Earl E. Estep 
will occupy the place of instructor in Architectural 
Drawing. Ralph W. Williams, A. B. (Harvard), is 
assistant instructor in English.
Many new additions have been made to the Mar­
garet Morrison faculty. Miss Laura A. Cauble is As­
sistant Professor of Household Economics in charge 
of the department of Household Arts. Miss Carrie 
H. Lyon, a graduate of the Normal University of 
Kansas, and the Teacher’s College of Columbia Uni­
versity, is instructor in Cooking and Housekeeping. 
Miss Alice E. Hyde, assistant instructor in Sewing 
and Dressmaking, is a graduate of the normal course 
of the Drextel Institute. Miss Jennie Williams, tlie 
instructor in stenography and office economy, has 
had years of responsible work with Pittsburg com­
panies. Miss Elizabeth E. Sheets is graduate instruc­
tor in Chemistry. Miss West, Dean of Margaret 
Morrison, has just returned from a trip east and 
stated that the present Plebe class is the largest 
in the history of the school, numbering 84. Tele­
grams announcing the fact were sent to Mr. Carnegie, 
Dr. Hammerschlag and Mrs. Hart, the former Dean.
S. O. Singer, formerly with the Carnegie Steel 
Company, has opened the Singer Pen Store at 216 
Oliver avenue (near Sixth street) where he sells 
fountain pens and ink pencils that do not leak. Stu­
dents should see the line. He also has extra fine 
post cards.
SPECIAL NOTICE.
^To insure getting the “Tartan” regularly during
the coming year subscribe for it now. Price $1.00 for
the year. See the business manager.

---------------------------------------------------

THE TARTAN7
TRAINING.
The attitude with which we should view our re­
lation to the institution which has accepted our ap­
plication to represent it, in a contest of intellectual 
or muscular supremacy, is often misconceived.
When a man goes to his classmates, his profes­
sors, his alumni and says, “Fellows, I wish you 
would try me out against the best you have, and if
I prove capable, allow me to stand forward as your 
champion to represent you against the best our 
contemporaries can put forward;” that man prac­
tically pledges the best efforts he can muster to up­
hold those he represents. Such a man is bound by
all standards of morals and ethics to submerge per­
sonal desires, where those conflict with the best 
interest of his college. The debater has no license 
to, nor could any contingency excuse his indulgence 
in, dissapation, if that form of indulgence in any way 
weaken his full capabilities of wining for his com 
rades or aluma mater. Should such a chosen rep­
resentative be caught injuring his chances—which 
are his fellow students’ chances—by breaking the 
rules established by custom as best to develop his 
abilities, that man deserves censure just as severe 
as that accorded the man entrusted with gold coin 
of his comrades, who breaks his trust and dissipates 
that coin away. Which is worse—the man who can 
defeat any rival in a 100 yard dash and is chosen 
to carry the honor of this college in that event,
while his nearest competitor has been taken out and 
put in another event in order that his college may 
win both; and then that chosen representative 
secretly smokes, keeps late hours, and otherwise 
dissipates to an extent that he loses where other­
wise his victory would have been sure;—or the man 
who was entrusted with the care of one hundred dol­
lars, and secretly dissipates away that one hundred 
dollars and is unable to “deliver the goods” when 
called on to do so?
Now, fellows, you have with you this fall a man 
who has the interest of Tech at heart as much as 
any of you. He is to coach your football team— 
no he is to instruct your chosen representatives 
how best they may conserve and use their muscular 
and mental systems so as to have the best repre­
sentation on the gridiron that you can muster. Foot­
ball rules allow but eleven players, you all cannot 
play, so instead you send out the best talent you can 
gat I'rcm amongst you. That talent is tried out, and 
Li’cm amongst it is selected the eleven who can best 
represent the balance of you at football. Your 
coach can tell these representatives of yours what to 
do and what not to do, but he cannot enforce the 
performance of these “training rules.” It is the at­
titude of you, who send cut these representatives, 
which will compel their observation by those tempt­
ed to break them. It must be recognized that the 
man striving to “make” your football team >s not 
to do so for the purpose of using it as a tool for 
wining laurels and honors for his own self, but that 
he is making the team so as to say “Out of two 
thousand men I have been chosen one of eleven to
On your part, undergraduates, and alumni, be 
represent the balance, and to that balance T belong 
until the end of th:s football season.” 
severe with breaking of your trust, but be just as 
thoughtful oi' these striving to represent you honest­
ly. Don’t blow smoke into the nostrils of the man 
making an honest fight to give up tobacco; don’t 
organize a crowd to go out for a good time, wh^n a 
man with like cravings but in training is present; 
don’t be inconsiderate of your representatives at any 
time, they have feelings the same as yours. On the 
other hand, fellows, make it an honor to be on your 
teams, an honor to represent you, and don’t be 
afraid to grasp a man’s hand and look him in the 
eye and say “good work, old boy, we’re pleased with 
what you are doing.” Read this little article again, 
several times will do no harm, as it contains ma­
terial for thought and discussion among yourselves. 
The writer will apologize for no mistakes, as the 
demands of the publisher are urgent, and we feel 
this matter should be put before you, even in its 
crude form, at the outset of your school year, that 
we may all act in harmony and understanding with 
the best interests of Tech as our ultimate aim.
E. N. SNITJER.
When Dry Cleaning is done properly you can't 
help but be satisfied. See SHUMAN, at 3911 Forbes 
near Boquet, Give him a sample order.

---------------------------------------------------

8THE TARTAN
THE TARTAN
Published Weekly During the School Year by Stu­
dents of Carnegie Technical Schools, Pittsburg, Pa.
Entered at the Pittsburgh post office as second class matter
Lowell W. Nicols, ’11—•Editor-in-Chief. 
Howard P. Mason, ’10—Sporting Editor. 
Donald D. Mitchell, Associate Editor. 
Eugene B. Taggart, Associate Editor. 
Josephine Mandeville, ’10, M. M. C. S.—Associate 
Editor.
Edith Scott Glenn, ’10, M. M. C. S.—Assistant.
H. J. McCorkle, ’11—Business Manager.
Subscription Rates
Yearly ..................................................... $2.00
Single Copy ..........................................10 Cents
For Advertising Rates, address the Business Manager, care 
Carnegie Technical Schools.
PAST AND FUTURE.
We have just reached an important stage of our 
development as a poly technical institute; we are at 
present gazing at a conspicuous mile-post in the 
growth of Carnegie Tech, so let us be careful. Four 
years ago the first students were admitted to the 
brand new and untried institution, and last year wit­
nessed the listing of Carnegie Tech as the largest 
technical school in the United States. For this un­
heard-of thing we have reason to be proud. By rea­
son of this same unheard-of thing, the school has 
been forced into the public eye as rapidly as it has 
grown. A great many people in all parts of the coun­
try are watching what goes on here. They are 
watching what, to them, is one of the greatest experi­
ments in the history of education; that of building 
up a great school in a short time by rapid, “get- 
there” methods. They have all seen by this time, 
that as far as securing a competent business and 
teaching force goes, it does not require a generation 
of selection to find the most effective combination. 
Attention is now turned to the records of the gradu­
ates since their departure, in an effort to determine 
what sort of a thing is the education of a man from 
Carnegie Tech, and what sort of a man is it who 
has this education. Then the center of interest 
shifts to the present members of the student body, 
the undergraduates—who and what are they; gentle­
men or merely men. Those of us now engaged in 
shaping the ends toward which this institution shall 
move, have all of the responsibility of the ultimate 
outcome in our hands. Our mistakes find a more 
ready condemnation among the “I told-you-so’s” as 
our fame, on account of our growth, spreads. So, 
have a care.
During the past year, events of signal importance 
have taken place in all of the departments of the 
school, all branches of student activity have broad­
ened, and we are hoping that the life and atmosphere
surrounding the work here has become more satiat­
ed with the true wholesomeness it should have. Our 
enrollment has increased, and more graduates by 
far have gone forth to make or mar, than ever left 
our doors before. More courses of instruction and 
instructors to take care of them have been added and 
the equipment of the laboratories and shops has been 
steadily improved. A new group of buildings has 
been completed and occupied, and the consequent 
re-arrangement of departments has given everyone 
more room. Our Athletic Field, on the present site 
of Forbes Field, was put in order, and after being 
used for one brief football season was taken away 
from us. Since that time the idea of the new one 
was launched and carried out, and now our own 
Field, which cannot be taken away from us by virtue 
of its being on school property, is being used—-a 
dream of nine months ago, come true before our 
eyes. Other branches of athletics have prospered, 
as have the literary, musical and dramatic activities. 
The year past then, has been an eventful one. But 
let us be so busy keeping the good work up, that 
we will have no time to suffer from swelled heads 
over what is now in the past. The future is already 
at hand.
KEEP IN THE GRAND STAND.
The request made by Coach Snitzer for the men 
watching the practice of the foot-ball squad to kindly 
remain in the grand stand at - all times during prac­
tice, will be a great help to the team if properly 
carried out. The entire field can be seen to advant­
age from any seat in the stand, and there is no rea­
son for the request not being complied with.
NAMING OUR “FIELD.”
Now that we have it, let’s name it. The title 
“Tech Field” suggests stubble, ash-heaps or tin can§, 
according to the part of the country you come from. 
There neve^^will be a time like j&e present to select 
an appropriate •Hid(i<\*1or the puSljc will become ac­
customed" to xrTiatevfif- 'it: Ts Tfill(V<l "diff'iitg'tlie coming 
football season, and the name is likely to stick. 
“The Tartan” will pubiish all names suggested in an 
effort to obtain a suitable one.
5—SIMOLEONS—5.
“The Tartan” offers a prize of $5.00 (count them 
—FIVE) for a new design for the cover to replace 
the “Study in Smoke” now running as a free supple­
ment to each issue. Any suitable subject will be con­
sidered. (Girls heads and symphonies in sentiment 
barred as unsuitable.) The drawings are to be made 
twice the dimensions of the cover and must be in 
black and white only. None requiring a half-tone 
to reproduce will be considered, as we will not use a 
half-tone plate. All drawings are due on October 14, 
and will be judged by a jury chosen from the faculty 
of the School of Applied Design acting with the edi­
tors of this paper.

---------------------------------------------------

THE TARTAN9
1 The Senior Class held a reunion Monday. He is at­
tending classes regularly now.
T. Friganza Neel has not yet signed her contract
2 for the coming season.
Henry McCorkle is back from “God’s Country”— 
where it was 126 in the shade. Did Henry take the 
right train?
Teo Wasson is unavoidably detained. He expects 
to get bail within a week or two.
Dolefull B. Wagner succeeded in losing his old 
valise during the summer.
The faculty is all here. R. B. Wallace appeared 
on the job today.
The Plebe Class will soon be in full bloom. Their 
tops are beginning to look green and fuzzy.
Crop reports from the Hay-fever districts indicate 
that Juniors wrill be scarce and high this year.
Teddy-Bears should be placed under the protec­
tion of the Game Laws. The supply has suffered 
great diminution.
Tutoring has become very popular, and is almost 
a fad.
Straw hats are very shy. Only four specimens 
were obtainable—and one of them got away.
The Shultz-Light Company, having perfected sev­
eral new ones, is looking forward to a prosperous 
year.
At the last reading it seemed as though Brill will 
be the entire Senior Class.
Dr. Willett had the Pittsburg politicians on the 
run a short time ago. Some of them are still going, 
it seems.
The New Castle News-Herald says kind things 
about the White Friars and the Glee and Mandolin 
Clubs.
There are rumors to the effect that a large Y. 
M. C. A. building will be built in the vicinity in the 
near future.
The Margaret Morrison School offers a new gradu­
ate course in normal work.
W. I. Frederick recently went to Milwaukee where 
he has accepted a position with the Milwaukee Elec­
tric Railway and Light Co.
The constitution of the Plebe class was handed 
down to them by the Sophomores.
Secretary Field received several letters from Sid­
ney M. Seisel during the summer. He has been 
working in Charlottenberg, Germany, and has travel­
ed extensively in the neighborhood of Cologne, Frank­
furt, Geneva, etc. Among th& other usual sight, he 
witnessed an ascension made by Count Zepplin.
Stop, Look and Remember.
The article under the heading of “Training” by 
Coach Snitjer in this number should be interpreted 
as law if any results from the foot ball team are e*. 
pected.
The “Tartan” desires to extend its heartful sym­
pathy to Victor Rigaumont, Jr., on the recent death 
of his father.
Died
NICOLAS D. VASSALAROS 
June 29, 1909, at Chicago 
A member of the class of 1908 of the Carnegie 
Technical Schools.
-------HIGH LOW--------
Jack and the Oame
Have you seen it? 3 Buttons, Tan and 
Black
STOEBENER’S
6227 Penn FAST FND 6222 Frankstown

---------------------------------------------------

10THE TARTAN
o\o\o\o\o\o\o\ovo\o\oso\o\ono\o>o\o\o\ono\o%o\onov>%o\o\o\o\\o%o%ovo%o%o^o%o 
» «
GET STARTED------
RIGHT FOR FUTURE COMFORT AND HAPPINESS—OPEN A BANK ACCOUNT
WITH THE
OAKLAND SAVINGS AND TRUST COMPANY
IROQUOIS BLOCK.
Capital, $200,000.00 Surplus, $126,000.00
vaV0VOVO\OVO\OVOOV>\O\OVOV:»\0NOVO\D\OVOSO\OVO%OV}NOV:>VO*0\v\O%O\O\ONO\O%O\O\
THE BEHAVIOR OF TIMBER UNDER LCNG-CON- 
TINUED DEAD LOADS.
Fatigue and plasticity effects seem to be very 
marked in wood, according to experiments which 
Mr. H. D. Tiemann, of the Yale Forest School, New 
Haven, Conn., has been carrying on for several j ears 
past. He constructed a special test and recording 
apparatus, in which wooden beams may be kept 
under a steady transverse load for a long period 
of time, while their middle reflection is continuously 
recorded on a strip of paper wound over a clock- 
moved drum. Such experiments take time; ior in­
stance some of the sets of beams tested by Mr. 
Tiemann were under load for nearly a year. It was 
necessary, therefore, to plan the work such *s to 
give direct comparisons of the effect of different con­
ditions, instead of giving average numerical values 
for each condition for a certain kind of wood
The beams tested, so far are all of long-leaf yellow 
pine, are 2x2 ins. square, and about 40 ins. long, to 
give a span of 36 ins. between supports. Load is 
applied through a yoke resting on the middle of the 
beam and carrying weighs below. Over the sup­
ports, upright carrier brackets are fastened to 
the beam by pins driven at the neutral axis of the
beam, and across these is placed a stiff longitudinal 
strip from which the deflections of the beam are 
measured. A cord fastened to the loading yoke 
passes upward, around a small sheave pivcted to the 
strip above, and thence horizontally to the end or 
the strip, where it is wound around the small sheave 
of a multiplying wheel. From the large sheave of 
the latter another cord gees to the recording de­
vice.
The recorder comprises a vertical drum, rotated 
by clock at the rate of one revolution in 30 days 
(1-in. in 24 hrs.) and Eve pens bearing on the paper 
which passes over this drum. The pens are moved 
up or down by the cords from the multiplying 
sheaves. The five pens are offset horizontally, so as 
not to interfere with each other; the abscissas of the 
resulting diagrams will be corresponsingly offset, but 
this causes no confusion in studying the results.
Up to the present Mr. Tiemann has completed 
four series of tests. Bach comprised five beams under 
long-time load, a sixth piece for testing in an ordi­
nary testing-machine, and a blank for determining 
the varying moisture-content of the wood by fre­
quent weighing. It is found that the change of mois­
ture content from season to season has a profound 
influence on the result, the wood becoming weaker
A FAMOUS NEW YORK HATTER MAKES
TECH-NEGI E
Proper headwear for all occasions, 
Silk and Opera, Derbies, soft hats and 
caps. The best kinds of both foreign 
and domestic manufacture. Write for 
our style book.
TECH-MONT©tto Getting
Fifth and Wylie Seventh and Smithfield

---------------------------------------------------

THE TARTANli
and more flexible when its moisture is higher (in 
summer), and stronger and stiffer when the moisture 
is lower (in winter). To make a set as nearly uni­
form as possible, all six (or seven) beams were cut 
from the same plank, from locations side by side.
The conclusions to which these tests have led 
were stated by Mr. Tiemann in a paper read before 
the American Society for Testing Materials at At­
lantic City last June. They are essentially as fol­
lows:
1. Tho deflections or recoveries produced by the 
immediate addition or removal of loads are inde­
pendent of any deflection or recovery due to the 
time effect of dead leads. In other words, if the 
deflections (or recoveries) due to the time effects of 
dead loads be subtracted from the stress-strain dia­
gram, the resulting diagram is the same as would 
have been obtained in the usual machine test.
2. If a beam be subjected to a dead load which 
is less than its “immediate” elastic limit at the time 
of removal of the load, and the load be removed be­
fore any failure occur and the beam allowed to re­
cover for a length of time, then the ultimate strength 
as shown by the usual power-machine test is not re­
duced thereby, neither is the elastic limit. It appears 
that the latter may even be raised somewhat. The 
stiffness (immediate modulus of elasticity) also is 
not changed by the dead load.
3. The greener the wood the more plastic it is 
under dead load, apparently a smaller proportionate 
loading will cause a continual deflection until rup­
ture finally occurs. Beams under dead load deflect 
more during variation in atmospheric humidity than 
at the average constant humidity, for during damp 
weather the deflections increase while in dry weather 
deflection becomes less or may cease altogether, but 
in so doing the previous deflection during the damp 
period is not regained. Thus the beam may con­
tinue to deflect by a series of successive stages'until 
failure occurs, due to changes in the humidity of the 
air.
4. Dry longleaf pine beams may be safely loaded 
permanently to within at least 75% of their imme­
diate elastic limit, provided no increase in dampness 
occurs, and deflections will ultimately cease (prac­
tically) under this load. No preceptible deflection 
will occur due to the time effect under loads up to 
within 20% of the immediate elastic limit. Loads 
greater than the immediate elastic limit are danger­
ous and will generally result in rupture if continued 
long enough.
5. The recovery of the time effect of a beam after 
removal cf a dead load is gradual, and very similar 
in reverse order to the deflection under dead load. 
The recovery of the time effect due to removal of 
dead load continues longest in the beam which has 
been most heavily loaded, and is not always com­
plete, the permanent “set” remaining apparently be­
ing greater the greater has been the time effect 
under dead load.
6. With beams under dead loads in general, if the 
continual deflections diminish during equal success
B. & B.
Very little investigation will disclose to 
your great satisfaction the difference saved 
in shopping at a store that really does sell 
Less, as compared with any that merely 
pretends to.
BOGGS & BUHL
******
£ Manheim Slide Rules—5, 8, 10, 16 and 20- ^
2 inch Duplex Pclyhase, Log, Log-slide Rules, ^
^ Circular Calculators, Halden Calculex. £
Kurtz, Langbein & Swartz
£ 606 Wood St. Tel. Grant 279.
X******^****************************
*0*0^4<>^*0^*0^*0*0*0*0*0*000*i*o*0
I Well Pressed is Well Dressed I| — I
0 LIBERTY CLEANING & PRESSING CO. * 
0> 301 South Craig Street
* §
o*o%o*o*o*o*o*o*o*o*o*o*o*o*o*o*o*o*
R. W. MEDICK
MEATS ANDCHOICE HOME DRESSED 
POULTRY
Both Phones3304 Forbes StreetS*o
*0*0*0X0*0*0*0X0X0X0X0X0X0X0X0X0X0XO 
O«|K^«K>^*O4^>frO,i,0^O^O4,O4,O'4*<>l'0^C,4,Oi‘D,frO4^*4* 
GOOD THINGS TO EAT $
at the Pure Food Stores of 5
GEO. K, STEVENSON £ CO, |
Sixth Avenue Higland and Center <$•
Down Town East End
AUDITORIUM bating
5L1 T1—5 DR**?M —O451— 4S« 
9H—VA VS 5L1 —5451E
2 000 Piir Skates. 25,000 Sq. Fi. Surfict
ANUE TUNC7 C.7 RCUlowU 4ewE
~0
]} ¦ &s The Scheimley Farms §
)) THE GARDEN SPOT OF PITTSBURGH 0
D The place to live for convenience, pleasure and ft 
V) profit. 0
0 «< S5S2~OSOS03?S0S020SO20S0S0S0SOS02O£O

---------------------------------------------------

12 THE TARTAN
\O%a*O.%D%O*OXC*DO%O*0XO\O\O\OV>VOV>\O\O\O\O\OXO\O\O\O*OVO\O\O\O\O\O%O\OXO\O\
I. LUDEBUEHL & SON^s— g
g PENN AND FRANKSTOWN AVE., E. E. i
I ——- SH O IE 3 Io g0 The New Creation for Men /
1 " TAN VIKING CALF” Button anti Blucher g
$4.00 and $5.00 the pair §
8 *
sive periods of time, the indication is that the load is 
safe and that deflection will ultimately cease under 
the same or drier moisture conditions; but if the 
continual deflections appear on the increase, the 
load is unsafe and rupture is pretty sure to follow.
The author specially emphasizes that these con­
clusions are only tentative, inasmuch as they are 
based on a relatively small number of tests. They 
appear to be supported very consistently, however, 
by the 20 beams so far tested.
However, it is important to note that no permanent 
loss of strength or permanent injury is produced 
by the time-effect of the load. A special experiment 
bearing on this point was made in the first set, as 
follows:
The four beams of the set were loaded with 610, 
730, 830 and 980 lbs. respectively. The latter failed 
in a few days. The others showed continuously in­
creasing deflections, but after a time the curves 
flattened out considerably. After 132 days the loads 
were removed. Then they rested for over a year, 
and then were tested in the ordinary testing-machine 
manner. The fifth and sixth beams were tested in 
an ordinary testing-machine without having been sub 
jected to time loads, one being tested at the begin­
ning of the entire experiment period, the other at the 
end, to give values for comparison. After reduc­
ing all the results to a unform percentage of mois­
ture, they showed as tabulated below.
Allowing for unavoidable variations in quality be­
tween the different beams, it can safely be con­
cluded from the figures of this table that the beams 
subjected to time load showed no loss of strength 
in the subsequent test to failure. The apparent 
lowering of modulus of elasticity is not significant, 
says the author, because the curves used for re­
ducing values to uniform (10%) moisture are aver­
ages, and do not apply accurately to an indivdual 
sample.
We see, therefore, that in wood as in ductile 
metals, the curious actions due to plasticity, while 
partly permanent in effect, partly mere “lag,” do 
not imply injury of the material, but leave the ma­
terial just as strong as before, in spite of consider­
able-plastic deformation.—Engineering News
REFUSE FURNACES.
The outlook for needed reforms in designing and 
operating furnaces for burning city refuse in Ameri­
can cities is increasing with each of the new installa­
tions conceived along the lines of the best and latest 
engineering practice. A hopeful sign of the times 
is the fact that American engineers are not only re­
ceiving encouragement from American cities in 
their study of European practice, but that in these 
foreign studies our engineers are now beginning to 
go beyond superficial surveys of the field and are 
taking up details cf construction and operation. Some 
of the results of the most recent study of refuse- 
destructor practice that has come to our notice are 
given elsewhere in this issue. They relate to the 
methods employed in charging refuse into high-tem- 
perature incinerators. Comparisons are made of me­
chanical and hand-firing methods, and deductions are 
drawn as to the relative economy and efficiency of 
each method.
We leave to others, and particularly to those who 
have been intimately connected with the design and 
operation of refuse destructors, the discussion of Mr. 
Greeley’s conclusions, with this exception: it seems 
to us that perhaps Mr. Greeley has somewhat over­
emphasized the sanitary advantages of not having 
refuse exposed to view or to the air of the destructor 
building. It seems to us questionable whether any 
considerable expense is warranted for the sake of 
preventing such exposure. It is of course very prop­
er to consider the comfort of the workmen and their 
exposure to dust and dirt and their possible remote 
danger of infection. Aside from this, the chief con­
sideration, so far as the public health is concerned, 
in comparing the relative advantages of charging 
systems which do and which do not expose the re­
fuse, would seem to relate to first cost, capital and 
operating charges.—Engineering News.
SPECIAL NOTICE.
To insure getting the “Tartan” regularly during
the coming year subscribe for it now. Price $1.00 for
the year. See the business manager.

---------------------------------------------------

THE TARTAN13
OUR PROGRESS AT PANAMA.
The French Panama Canal companies excavated 
about eighty million cubic yards during the three 
decades prior to the American occupation in 1904. 
During the past month the record of American ex­
cavation reached and passed this figure. The occa­
sion marks something of an epoch in the history of 
the canal.
The material dug out by the French was mostly 
earth, and they worked chiefly at those points where 
conditions were favorable to low cost per cubic yard 
and large output. The U. S. Government forces have 
been working at greater depth, largely in rock, and in 
all along the line without selection of special points 
for a record. Each cubic yard of the American ex­
cavation therefore represents more work and more 
achievement‘than a cubic yard of the French. The 
actual figures show that the French total was equaled 
in the time from May, 1904, to August, 1909—five and 
a quarter years; in view of the difference in charac­
ter of work, however, we may safely round off the 
period of equal performance to five years. The 
French, during their thirty years’ occupation, were 
at work some twenty years. The present American 
attack therefore has taken just one-fourth as long 
as the French attack, for equal performance.
The French public, which furnished the money for 
the work of the Panama Canal Companies, lost con­
fidence in the enterprise through discouragement. 
Years were passing, and though the work was pro­
gressing its progress did not seem to bring the final 
completion of the project measurably nearer. The 
sources of mcney-supply dried up, and in the end 
the assets had to be sold at a sacrifice; sold far be­
low their cost, and well below their value. The 
American authorities, who found it possible to use 
only half the total French excavation, consider that 
even this was worth more than was paid to the 
French owners, and the old plant, Panama R. R. 
rights, etc., are in effect thrown in for good measure.
The intensely rapid progress of the American work 
at Panama is an effective protection against a sim­
ilar loss of confidence in this country. The progress 
has been such as to give promise of final completion 
within six years—a period not so remote as to kill 
off the enthusiasm of the people of the United States, 
who pay the cost. Evidently, rapid work is worth 
while, even at increased cost. What would be the 
popular feeling about the canal if the American 
forces had taken until 1924 to equal the French out­
put?—Engineering News.
THE PERFECT MAN.
There is a man who never drinks,
Nor smokes, nor chews, nor swears; 
Who never gambles, never flints,
And shuns all sinful snares.
He’s paralyzed!
There is a man who never does 
A thing that is not right.
His wife can tell just where he is 
At morning, noon and night. 
He’s, dead!
THE PERFECT WOMAN.
There is a woman who never scolds 
Nor gossips, talks nor gabbles;
Who never grumbles, never fibs 
And never even prattles.
She’s dumb!
There is a woman who never sees 
The latest thing in fashion;
For merry widows newest gowns 
She seems to have no passion.
She’s blind!
—Contributed.
BOARD, LODGING AND EMPLOYMENT.
The Secretary’s office will receive applications for 
employment, and will furnish information concern­
ing board and rooms convenient to the schools. More 
applications from day men for work on Saturdays 
have been received than can be filled just at present, 
but all applicants on the waiting list will be attended 
to as soon as possible.
GLEE CLUB TRY-OUT.
The Glee, Banjo and Mandolin Clubs of the Car­
negie Technical Schools are about to begin their fifth 
season with everything pointing to a more success­
ful one than ever before. The affairs of the clubs 
have been looked after in a business-like way and 
the chances are that the boys will have more and 
better trips than ever before. Old and new men 
alike are requested to turn out on Sunday afternoon, 
October 3 and try to become a member of the clubs 
for the coming season.
Men playing the mandolin, mando-cello, guitar,
* oI
 A. W. SMITH CO., §
FToWsts I
Largest, finest, and best equipped florist es- 5 
tablishment in America. x
Represented in all large cities «
KEENAN BUILDING
Liberty at Sixth Avenue, Pittsburg, Pa. 2

---------------------------------------------------

14THE TARTAN
banjo, mando-banjo, banjorine, violin, or celia, come 
out and try for the mandolin club.
The Plebes, or first year men, should take notice 
of the fact that they have just as much chance of 
making one of the clubs as older men as the mem­
bers of the club are taken on their musical ability 
alone with no favoritism or partiality shown what­
ever.
Last year we had the best clubs in this part of 
the country and this year with the loyal support of 
the students they will be better.
New men and old are accordingly asked to turn 
out for the first try-out which will be. held in the 
general assembly room near the A. & J. building 
at three o’clock Sunday afternoon, October 3, 1909. 
Those trying for mandolin and banjo clubs please 
bring their instruments with them.
CONCRETE STADIUM AT SYRACUSE.
By Dr. Charles Floyd Burrows.
Athletic contests may go but the recently com­
pleted concrete stadium for the promotion at Syra­
cuse University will endure forever. This mighty 
piece of architecture, excelling anything of its kind 
in the world, is situated in the southwestern corner 
of the hill-topping campus of the progressive Meth­
odist institution, just “where the vale of Onondaga 
meets the eastern sky,” according to the versipn of 
a popular student song, and majestically overlooks 
a busy city sprawling across the valley below. Ad­
jacent to it stately educational edifices for increasing 
the depth of grey matter in the pates of verdant 
youth, rear their learned heads aloft and gaze jeal­
ously down upon it. Like a gigantic oval basin hewn 
from the bed rock of Mother Earth it nestles in a 
natural hollow between surrounding hills open to 
the sunshine and storms of coming years. Although 
thus located in an existing declivity a large amount 
of excavating w^,s necessary to shape the sloping 
sides into sufficient circumference to meet the stu 
pendcus requirements called for by the plans. The 
whole structure is made of reinforced concrete sup­
ported on piers of the same material which extend 
down to a firm foundation; so while having the ap­
pearance of resting upon the earth immediately un­
derneath like the stadia of antiquity—which it sur­
passes—it has as solid a support for its tremendous 
weight as a sky-scraper. Since completion its ex­
posed surface has been waterproofed with a paraffine 
preparation to protect it from any possible devastat­
ing effects of penetrating moisture. Its upper border 
is flush with the surrounding ground except at the 
western end where the dirt was sloped away on 
either side to permit the construction of a command­
ing street entrance. At its eastern end near the bot­
tom beneath tiers of seats is an underground pas­
sageway leading from the sodded arena of the ath­
letic field into the adjoining gymnasium building— 
the finest, most complete edifice of its kind in this 
country, finished but yesterday, and worthy a special 
descriptive article itself. On the stadium’s south
^r\é‘Best Store
FORBES and ATWOOD ST. *
OAKLAND A
WHITE OVERALLS £
for the Tech Students—all sizes. 2
$1.C0 A SUIT 2
Best Garments Made. ^
side a covered grand-stand 196 feet long rears its 
graceful roof of steel and cement over a seating 
capacity of 10,000. Flanking this protected segment, 
eighteen rows of seats ascend amphitheater-fashion 
from the base to a parapet at the top and extend 
around the whole affair except where the towered 
archway of the main entrance intervenes. Between 
the parapet, and an iron fence beyond it—which en­
closes the stadium from the encroachments of the 
ubiquitous small boy and others who may forget 
to purchase tickets of admission—is a promenade 
twenty feet wide running completely about ti. This 
thoroughfare provides a suitable channel for dis­
tributing jostling crowds of excited impatient people 
to and from all parts. Furthermore it allows space 
to park automobiles or other vehicles whose owners 
may wish to sit stylishly within them while watch­
ing a stirring contest on the oval below. Around 
the outer border of this oval, within five feet of the 
commencement of the concrete work, a cinder run­
ning track of liberal width, one-quarter mile in 
length, encircles a sodded area of several acres. 
Upon this patch of green—every yard of which, from 
any view-point, is visible to spectators—foot ball 
warriors and base-ball heroes can fight for honorable 
supremacy while frantic cheers and college yells 
pour down like peals of thunder from grand-stand 
and cement bleachers to urge them enthusiastically 
on to victory for dear old “alma mater.” This field 
is drained so completely by a clever system of tiling
4*******4****4-*4***4******
•J* ¦J1 *1* i1 *1* *1** * 
* f f * * 4* 4* *
— I WISH—
To state in this issue of the Tartan that I 
make a specialty of books on Architecture 
and allied arts, and have some fine things 
and some new things in that line, including 
the high-class publications of the Bruno 
Hessling Company, Limited, to show to those 
who may be interested
In next issue I wish to say something 
about Esperanto, the world language.
JACOB HENRICI
East End Book Store
Near East End Postoffice
4-*t
%4*4*f4*

---------------------------------------------------

0L. 0BI0BN15
beneath an overlying layer of crushed stone that if 
a rain storm prevails a short interval before an im­
portant ’varsity struggle is scheduled to take place, 
it will dry off speedily, thus preventing disappoint­
ment to eager “rah-rah” rooters. In addition to the 
circular path for sprinters there is provided on the 
grand-stand side, a 220-yard “straight-away” for hurd­
lers and short distance speed artists simultaneously 
craving to smash world records and win smiles of 
approbation from susceptible “co-eds.” To obtain 
the required distance for this stretch it was neces­
sary that the course should extend at either end 
beneath the curving concrete masonry; consequently 
this was arched tunnel-like above it at these points.
The original conception for the construction of 
the stadium arose in the fertile cerebrum of Dr. 
James Roscce Day, the aggressive, mentally-athletic 
Chancellor of Syracuse University and the champion 
of Rockefeller; to John D. Archbold, the magnate of 
Standard Oil reputation, belongs the credit of donat­
ing approximately $700,000 for the cost of its erec­
tion. Work was started upon the enterprise in the 
autumn of 1905, and the last trowel of cement was 
smoothed into place October 22, 1907, but not until 
the football season of 1908 was it publicly opened 
for the display of inter-university contests.
When the grounds about it are finally landscaped, 
its rocky, greyish color against green vegetation will 
present to a distant observer, even more than now, 
the suggestion of a wonderful, majestic work of na­
ture, rather than the spectacle of a modern wonder 
of the world fashioned by the puny hand of man.— 
Technical World Magazine.
* KAERCHER’S DRUG STORE
H. R. Scott, Manager
Drugs, Cigars, Soda Water, Stationery, Post 
Cards, Etc., Etc.
PRESCRIPTIONS
Full Line of Fancy Smokings 2
_ /''fy Cor. Craig and Forbes St. - Pittsburg, Pa. *
'£¦ Phones: Boll 1456 Schenley £
£ P. & A. 303 Park. y% J^\%\%\\S\\V\V\WWNN\V%WW
Do You Knowthat we print more books than any firm in 
the East End?.............................................
Do You Knowthat our Programs, Topic Cards and leaflets elicit the admiration of lovers of Fine Print­
ing? .....................................................• • •
Do You Knowthat we are prompt, and that an order for a dollar receives as much care and attention
as one for a hundred dollars? .....................
If you are fastidious, if you require prompt 
and efficient service, come to....................
SPAHR & RITSCHER,
6117 Kirkwood St., East End.
£
O
£
I0 *1
01 I
I
_4RIR O4R *3614 8FRS
TECH BARBER SHOP
THIS TONSORIAL PARLOR HAS BECOMT THE MECCA FOR TECH 
STUDENTS WHO WANT PARTICULAR WORK—GOOD, UP-TO-DATE SERVICE 
—STRICTLY SANITARY SHOP—COMPETENT WORKMEN WHO KNOW HOW 
TO GIVE THE FINISHING TOUCHES TO THE STUDENT’S TOILET
LATES STYLE HAIR-CUTS FOR THE STUDENT WHO WANTS TO BE 
RIGHT UP-TO-THE-MINUTE
ONE OF OUR FAMOUS FACE MASSAGES WILL TAKE AWAY THAT 
AFTER-EXAM HEADACHE. TRY IT
BEGIN THE SCHOOL YEAR RIGHT BY GOING “WHERE THE BUNCH 
GOES”—TO
THE TECH BARBER SHOP
H. F. VAN CUREN, PROP.COR. CRAIG & FORBES

---------------------------------------------------

Do you want, what you want when 
you want it ?
Yes ? Well, here it is!
THE TARTAN
Has a circulation of 2,500 readers 
among young men and women who are 
always spending money. It will pay 
you to look us up. .*. Carnegie Tech 
is the largest technical school in the 
United States. Cheap advertising is 
the most expensive. Judicious adver­
tising always brings results. .*. Let 
us have a talk with you and show you 
of what profit a little ad. in THE 
TARTAN will be.
NORMAN BENEDICT, Adv. Mgr.
6117 KIRKWOOD ST.,
EAST END, PITTSBURGH.
