GENERAL ASSEMBLY 
MUSIC HALL
TUESDAY11:30 A. M.
SECOND FOOTBALL DANCE 
SATURDAY NIGHT 
UNION — $1.50 — IMPS
VOL. XXIII, NO. 3.CARNEGIE INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY, PITTSBURGH, PA.TUESDAY, OCTOBER 9, 1928.
Tartans Crush Ashland with Avalanche of 
Touchdowns at Forbes Field Saturday. 
Ohioans Prove to be No Match for Plaid
Hamerschlag Memorial 
To Be Unveiled Nov. 27
Carnegie’s Reserves Score At 
Will Against Weak Purple 
and Gold Football 
Machine
KARCIS PLAYS BRILLIANT 
GAME AT FULLBACK POST
Schnupp Injured and Will Be Lost 
Until W. & J. Game 
on 20th
The sun shone brightly at Forbes Field last < Saturday. It seemed, as if ©Id Sol was doing 
his best to make the date of the first home football game of • 1928 one to be remembered. His gold­en rays fell upon the Killy Band as they marched across the field and caused the various instruments to shine gloriously. As • the Car­negie banner was run up to the top of t'lie flagpole, accompanied by the strains of the Alma Mater, he smiled reverently upon the bare heads of the spectators and when the Purple and Gold players of Ashland College trotted out for practice lie smiled upon them, too. But, when the game was over, Carnegie rooters had no need, for Sol's influence for the score, Car­negie 65, Ashland 0, was more than sufficient to bring smiles to the faces of every Tartan fan.
The game fell far short of satis­fying the wishes of those who came to see a real battle. From the first play until the last it was all Carnegie; Ashland was not in it at any i time. Long, sweeping end runs, long forward passes and smashing line plunges, all proved to be more than the visitors could stand. Play had only just started when the Plaid crossed the line for their first touchdown. Dutch Eyth, in much the sdme manner as last week, carried the ball around the ends until it was near enough for Captain Iiarpster to carry over. When Carnegie next gained possession of the ball, which was very soon indeed, the same process was repealed,^ but this time it was the rugged Karcis who took the stellar role. The Tartan fullback gained more ground through the line than Ashland was iiuli isO'garner by end runs or even by means of passes. The last of a scries of plunges by Karcis, goo^l for 12 yards, carried the ball over.Ill the second period Carnegie turned loose in earnest with Glenn Moorchcad, substituted for the in­jured Eyth, and Karcis scoring two touchdowns apiece. Glenn’s first was made on a pass from Harp- ster. Then Karcis got down to business and crashcd through Ash­land’s line for 35 yards and a touchdown. Of course, there were only about half of the opposing team clinging to him at any one time, but it is exceedingly doubt­ful if the whole team and a couple of water boys would have been any more effective. In the same period Karcis scored again, but this time he had but three yards to go before he crossed the last marker. After all this was over Moorchcad decided thaty another score would not be amiss, so he, on a pass 'from Iiarpster, carried the ball over from the three yard line.The second half showed many new faces in Carnegie’s lineup. Wally evidently dccided that his second and third string men could take care of any opposition that Ashland could offer. The new men not only did this, but added two 
(Continued on Page 6)
Men’s Glee Club Organized; 
Annual Dance Planned for 
EveofW.&J. Game, Oct. 19
A meeting of the Men’s Glee Club will be held next Sunday at 2:30 in room 157, College of Fine Arts. All men who are interested in trying out should attend. Mem­bership is not confined to students in the Arts School; students in all colleges, day or evening, are eligible.Last Sunday the club met for the first time. In addition to many of last year’s men who turned out, there were a large number of freshmen. Paul Brau- tigarn,- the student director, is tak­ing charge of «the club, classifying the voices and beginning on some of the preliminary work until Mr. Harvey Gaul, who has been se­cured as director for the year, takes charge of the club. Tryouts will be held every Sunday after­noon before the rehearsals, and also on Wednesday evenings.A dance, the first social func­tion of the club, will be held on the eve of the W. and J. game, October 19, in the Union. Robert Boyd, manager of _ the club, has appointed as chairman, Joseph Patterson, who is making every preparation for a real good dance. Tickets will be sold on the cam­pus preceding the event.This dance will mark the be­ginning of the activities of the club, and many other events are to follow. The Carnegie Glee Club will again enter the Inter­collegiate Contest, and on strength of its _ showing in the last two competitions, strong hopes are en­tertained. Concerts will be sched­uled in and around Pittsburgh and there are possibilities of an exten­sive trip next spring.
STUDENTS REQUESTED TO 
REPORT ON SÜMMER JOBS
Students who secured positions for summer employment through the office of the Bureau of Recom­mendations are agaiti urged to re­port at once the amount of their earnings during June, July, August and September to Mr. Kristof, who is in charge of the rccords for this period. Although a few of the students who held positions this summer have handed in an account of their earnings, there is a large number who have overlooked this duty. The matter is extremely im­portant, as a complete report on all the positions obtained through the Bureau of Recommendations is1 necessary before the records of the office can be made. Mr. Kristof is very desirous of closing the records on this period and requests all the students who have not yet done so, to make their reports within the next week.
On Carnegie Day, Tuesday, No­vember 27, a bronze tablet in mem­ory of Dr. Hamerschlag, the first president of the Carnegie Institute of Technology, will be unveiled. It will be placed in Administration Hall, near the Registrar’s Office. The work is being done by Bert- hol_d Nebel, who was formerly head of the Sculpture Department. Augustus K. Oliver, Chairman of 
the Memorial Committee of the Board of Trustees, received a let­ter recently from Mr. Nebel in which he stated that he expects to have the portrait finished within the next few days and will send a photograph to the Committee for Criticism. Mr. Nebel states also that Mrs. Hamerschlag’s criti­cisms have been received in the materializing of plans for the un­veiling.
Uldine Utley, Evangelist
Repeats Time-Honored
Truth in Original Way
Second International Coal 
Conference Week of Nov. 19
Metallurgical Board Meets 
in the Auditorium of Bureau 
of Mines on Friday, Oct. 19
America’s Foremost Scientists to 
Present Papers to Steel Mill 
Men on Various Topics
The second open meeting of the Metallurgical Advisory Board lo the Carnegie Institute of, Technol-- ogy and the United States Bureau of Mines will be held in the au­ditorium in the Bureau of Mines Building on Forbes street, Friday, October 19, 1928, at which some of the greatest authorities on Met­allurgy in both the United States and Europe will present papers to steel mill men, though all persons interested in the subject are invit­ed to attend the different sessions.The morning session- will include an illustrated report on case car­bonizing research by Dr. Krivobok, associate in the Bureau of Metal­lurgical research of C. I. T. to be followed by discussion by Dr. C. H. J'lerty, Jr., physical chemist of the U. S. Bureau of Mjnes, Dr. H. W. Gillett, chief - of -the- Division of Metallurgy of the U. S. Bureau of Standards, and' Mr. M. A. Grossmann, Metallurgist' of the Central Alloy Steel Corporation. Dr. Krivobok will give a report on the metallurgical work of the B-ureau of Metallurgical Research and a report on. iron-niangarizci al­loys. Dr. Zay Jeffries, Consultant Metallurgist of the Aluminum Company of America, the General Electric Company and the National Tube Company will also speak*.in- the morning session.The afternoon session will in­clude an illustrated report on fundamental studies in the labora­tory by Dr. C. H. Herty, Jr., to be followed by discussions by Dr. John Johnson, Director of Depart­ment of Research and Technology of the United States .Steel Corpor­ation. A. L. Fielf, Metallurgical Engineer of tire Union" Carbide and Carbon Research Laboratories, Janies Aston of the Department, of Mining and Metallurgy of the C. I. T. Dr. C. Hr Herty, Jr., will, also give an illustrated'report on plant research in the open hearth.After the adjournment of the meeting at 5:30 guides^ will be fur­nished for those desiring to r see cither or both the laboratories of the C. I. T. or the United States Bureau i of Mines. Also after 4:30 an informal discussion of the prog­ress reports will be held in the auditorium. All those desiring to do so may remain.A dinner will be held in the An­nex Ball Room of the Pittsburgh Athletic Club at 7 o’clock and will be followed by the evening ses-- sion, with Dr. Thomas S. Baker presiding.
Council Allows Women To 
Carry Extra Activities
All four of the petitions to the Women’s Point System were passed by council last week. These . petitions -were :filed by women students carrying more ex­tra curricular activities than were allowed by the new point system. Dorothy Roy was granted by peti­tioning, the permission to hold Woman’s Editorship of The Tar­tan; Ruth B ramson, who is News Editor of The Tartan, was given vice-presidency of the Guild; the Managing Editor of Tri-Publica- tions, Hele^ Booth, was granted the permission to remain as Man­aging Editor of Tri-Publications, and Mary Hall, President of the Junior class, and Junior House President of Spruce. Hall, peti­tioned to council in order to re­tain presidency of the -class. Any­one not having petitioned and still holding extra curricular activity offices must petition before Octo­ber 10, after which date all re- elections of officers will take place.
Promiscuouf kissing at an initia­tion at New York State Normal 
School caused the quarantine of 60 students. After the meeting one 
of the members was found to have scarlet fever, and inasmuch as she had . kissed everyone present, the whole company was placed under 
quarantine. This was a sorority so that makes it a horse from a different department.
Carnegie to Act As Host to Dele­
gates Representing Twenty 
Nations
The Second International Con­ference on Bituminous Coal will be held under the auspices of the Carnegie Institute of Technology during the week of November 19. The First International Conference on Bituminous Coal was organized two years ago by Dr. Thomas S. Baker and was held at the Car­negie Institute. The results of this first v conference were of sUcli world-wide importance and interest aroused in the field of coal re­search that the necessity of a sec­ond conference was felt.
When Dr. Baker calls the Sec­ond Conference to order, his audi­ence will include more than a hun­dred scientists of world-wide repu­tations established because of their discoveries in the field of coal re­search. • According to the prelimi­nary program, about 20 nations will send representatives to the conference. ’ Germany, with about 20 representatives, will send the largest delegation, while France, England, and Canada will have a comparatively large number of speakers and delegates. Other countries that will be represented are: Italy, Austria, Belgium, Chile, Cuba, Czecho-Slovakia, Denmark, Japan, Jugo-Slavia, Norway, -Rus­sia, Spain and Portugal.
The discussions and addresses of the conference will be entirely con­cerned with the improved utiliza­tion of coal, a subject which, view­ed in the light of present condi­tions, is of great importance. The production of\ gasoline and other spirits from coal, the use of pul­verized .coal in internal combus­tion engines and in ship-propelling engines, the production of synthetic rubber from coal, the manufacture of artificial fertilizers, the. liqucfica- tion of coal, and the use of coal tar and other by-products - of coal are only a few of the important subjects to be discussed at the Carnegie Conference. .Recent dis coveries in the fixation of nitrogen for the purpose of producing artifi­cial fertilizers from the by-products of coal will occupy an important part in the coming meeting. Be­cause of the domestic and political aspects' involved in the future utilization of Mussel Shoals, this subject will be of special and timely interest.
Series of Carnegie Public 
Lectures Open Tues. Oct. 16
The first series in the program of public lectures to .be presented this year under the auspices of Carnegie Institute of Technology will be given in the Union at 8:30 on the evenings of October 16, 17, and 18, by Dr. W. H. Hatfield of. England.Dr. Hatfield, who is the Edward De Mille Campbell Memorial Lec­turer this year for the American Society of Steel Treating, is also a member of the Council of the Iron and Steel Institute, the Insti­tute of Mechanical Engineers,' Au­tomobile Engineers, Royal Aero­nautical Society, and numerous- other British technical committees and societies.. For many years lie has been associated with the Brown- Firtli Research Laboratories, of which he is director. His. book, “Cast Iron in the Light "of Re­cent Research,” has had wide cir­culation in the United States as well as in Europe.
The Hatfield lectures, w'hich will be free to' the general public, will be given as follows:
On October 16, Ingot ' Making, Manipulation, Treatment;
On October 17, Iieat Resisting Alloys of Iron;On October 18, Steels of Special Physical Characteristics.The Hatfield lectures have been arranged by President Baker, who is also negotiating for the presen­
tation of several other series of public lectures on technical, indus­trial, literary, and scini-popular sub­jects for the current college year;
Air mail may be said to date from the siege of Paris in 1870- 1871. During the siege fifty-four baloons with about 2,000,000 letters were sent out between September 23, 1S70, and January 20, 1871.
Over in France fighters used to box with their feet, and strangely enough, there was never any kick about it.
Uldine Utley spoke from the platform . of Soldiers’ Memorial Hall, Tuesday evening, October 2. A child in figure and a woman in face, she addressed a strange au­dience from the austere church deacon to the curiosity monger and religious fanatic.In opening Miss Utley was quite original and-said she stood in awe of all the shining faces, a very discreet evangelical attempt at humor. Her dramatic entre was completed by the chorus of a. song learned in Brookline. A prayer 
was offered up which showed at the beginning the power of Miss Utley’s lungs and vocal chords. Bravo!All people were called sheep (as they should be), because they are so stupid, a very sweet compli­ment. The audience was entranced by til? scintillating brilliance of the 
lecturer and sat with'tears in their sheep’s eyes. For the ..sake of clar­ity all statements were given at: least four versions, and repeated with emphasis. Standard, time- reverenced expressions such as "‘he plants your feet on stone not on shifting sand,” .lvere much used with good effect. An appeal for converts was made in about six different ways, and members of the audience were urged to conic for­ward and both “give up” and .“in,”
the terms were used interchangeably. 
Many rested, others cried and 
others quite frankly looked.
Throughout the entire evening 
there —were marked instances of a religious fanaticism,, common 'to this type of meeting. People car­ried beyond their usual depth of common sense by the picture and repetition ’ of well known scenes which never fail to arouse any body of people religiously inclined i to a nervous enthusiasm which ¡vaporized as rapidly as the bub­bles appear upon the surface. Loud ejaculations punctured the entire talk, many being employed by Miss Utley for emphasis. The simple truths expounded in many cases were well worth absorbing, but they were delivered > as sugar- coated doses of Something bitter. Miss Utley repeated much, was sii'glitly two garrulous and over-em­phatic and in general addressed the assembly as children too small for the comprehension of anything other than a bed-time fable. Every­thing that wras said could have been obtained first hand by a nor­mally intelligent human being, minus hallelujahs and amens, from the Bible at a very slight expendi­ture of energy and, in many cases, a clearer Understanding of actual facts.
Carnegie Y Campaign j Freshman Elections Dis- 
Opens Next Monday cussed at Student 
With Student Dinner Council Meeting
Get-Together Meeting is Held to 
Initiate Endeavor For New 
Members
The annual Y. M. C. A. drive will be formally opened next Mon­day evening at a dinner given to the student organization which is 'to. make the canvass. All men and women students having anything to do with the organization will be there to receive instructions con­cerning their canvass.
The men’s organization will be headed by William McNeill, chair­man of the financial drive commit tee of the Student Cabinet. W. G. Carson will head the En­gineering Organization, George Harbison will direct the Industrial drive, and Ted Zenc will handle tlie Arts School canvass.
Anne McKee will head the wom­en’s . financial drive committee. Blanche Bray will have charge of the drive for the Y. M. C. A. in Arts School, and Katherine Ander­son will direct the canvass in Margaret* Morrison. The Y. W. C. A. sponsors, many, affairs dur­ing the school year. A week last Friday the annual Big and Little Sister Tea was held. The Big and Little Sister idea has been devel­oped and sponsored by the Y. YV. C. A. and has met with a great deal of favorable comment.
The annual drive by the Y. M. C. A; and Y. W. C. A. is for the purpose of securing subscriptions for the Carnegie .chapters of the Y. M. C. A. and Y. W. C. A.
The membership fee for the Car­negie chapters is $3 a year and membership fee' for the National Y. M. C. A. and Y. W. C. A. or­ganization is $5 a year. A $5 na­tional subscription entitles the sub­scriber ^ to all the privileges of the Y. M. C. A. or Y. . W. G. A. throughout the country. It also includes the privileges of the use of the Carnegie chapter’s facilities.
A lange organization under tlie leadership of the above men and women will have the task of can­vassing the entire student body of Carnegie in the interest of the Y. W. C, A. and Y. M. C. A. All students should consider the “Y” seriously and be prepared to sub­scribe and thus help boost the Y, M. C. A. and Y. W. C. A.
Al Johnson To Direct 
The Girl’s Glee Club
Motion That Petition System Be 
Used For Plebe Nominations 
is Defeated
At the last meeting of the Stu­dent Council on Tuesday evening, October 2, the cor..mittee on the Women’s Activities Point System was approved. The committee is composed of Sally Hulick, Eleanor Seyler, Edith Illsley, and Cora Lee Hink. Four petition: were read for exception to the rules of the Activities Point System, and were approved.After discussing the manner of holding Freshman elections, it was decided, that all Freshman nomi­nations for election be made by petition, was * lost after much dis­cussion. it was decided to try the petition system later in the year. The /Senate presidents were in .ructed to call meetings of Freshman classes in their respective schools to hold nomination for class officers. The elections will _be held on October 16.The question of the salaries to be received by the students who have charge of the campus Bulle­tin Boards, and who take care of checking in the Union was settled, but it was not 'decided whether these came under the category of activities and could be held i by fifth year men. The decision on this point was tabled until tlie- lrieeting tonight.A' question was raised on the recommendation that Council ap­prove phyrical examination for Freshmen before fraternity hazing. It was argued that the severe strain imposed upon the neophytes was dangerous for a person, not in per­fect' physical condition. No action, wa. taken bn) the question.
Stringers to Hold Try-Outs 
Oct .7 in M.M. Assembly Hall
The Girls’ Glee Club held a business meeting Tuesday, Octo­ber 2, at which time a group of new members was admitted and plans were formulated for, the year. The club will appear on chapel and assembly ^programs during the year.- A number of concerts off the campus and o,ut of town will also be giveiy. Air. Al Jomi.son will lead the club this year. The program of work will be accompanied by social events.
The days set for rehearsals are Tuesday from seven to eight o’clock, and Thursday from four- thirty to five-thirty o’clock. A uniform dress for public perform­ances has been decided upon. The officers for the 'year arc: Presi­dent, Ha'rriet Hanna; Manager, Helen Reed; Secretary-treasurer, Helen Ward; Librarian, ’** Betty West; Assistant Librarian, Lois Schultz. Nominees for Assistant Manager are Olive Ritchey, Helen Dillman and Helen Bright.There is still an opportunity for | freshman girls to enter the club. Those girls who wish to join will | have a chance to try out for ad- i mittance at the rehearsals this ! week.
Tryouts for the stringers, a campus musical organization, have been announced by the president, Melba Sheppard ,and are sched­uled for 4:30 o’clock Wednesday, October 7, in the Margaret Morri­son Assembly Room. There will be a short business meeting before the tryouts, during which the new girls may become acquainted with the rules and purpose of the club.The organization is made up of girls from Margaret Morrison and Art School and any. girl from eith­er of the two schools is eligible for participation in its activities. Stringers embrace. any instrument at all such as violin, saxophone, uke, mandolin, traps and piano. It is probable that there will be quite a few interesting engagements if those of last year are any guaran­tee. The girls played at the Clan dinner held in a downtown hotel, at a benefit at ,the Irene Kaufman Settlement House and at numerous affairs about the campus, not to forget a joint program with the Glee Club. The club also • furnish­ed music many times at noon for the enjoyment of the rest of the girls while they ^danced in the “Rec” Hall. Stringers has for its officers the following officers: President, Melba Sheppard; man-, ager, Madelin Ferguson; secretary, Eleanor Lemon. Any girl desiring additional information may obtain it by consulting any of the club officers.
Bobby Jones was only fourteen j years of age when he competed for) 'the national amateur golf cham­pionship for the first time.
Harvard—The “Gold Coast” of tradition itr'thesc parts was a row of Harvard dormitories, privately owned, luxuriously equipped and occupied by students who had noth­ing to worry about in the payment of their bills.The "Gold Coast” now in the news is a straggling group of ugly buildings almost on the border line between Cambridge and Somerville, which derives its title from the profits of the bootlegging industry.
Plebe Candidates Make 
Good; Managers Wanted
Again the freshmen are urged to try out for the Plebe football squad as well as football manager. Sev­eral freshme^i heeded last week’s request and reported,. made good, and have salted down births on the squad. There are plenty of positions open and the advantages of being on the squad justify ‘‘lie reporting and working out of '-my ot those interested.
Contrary to orevious yea'rs,- there has been a small turnout of fresh­men football managers. If 3rou can not play football the next sure way of gaining school prominence is to be a football manager. The varsity manager can use at least five plebes. The work is fairly light and lasts only during., foot­ball season. At the end of the junior year there are never more than two managers left and they are sure of the jobs.
Managers make all the trips, see all the games and gain a knowl­edge of school activities and no­tables which, can not be obtained any place' else on the campus. Those first year men who care the least for activities should re­port any afternoon at the field house.
Bob Waddell Speaks Today at First 
General Assembly of Year for Which 
Student Council Arranges Program
FRATERNITY RUSHING WILL START SATURDAY,NOVEMBER 24
J Attendance of Plebe Class 
Compulsory; Absence 
Will Mean Trial
DASHBACH, LAUGHLIN
PRESENT COMIC SKIT
At the meeting of the Inter-Fra­ternity Council held last Wednes­day evening the dates for rushing ¡season were finally decided upon.I After a great deal of deliberation land discussion it was decided that the period extending from Novem- Plaid Night-Hawks, New Campus 
* " ’ ‘ Orchestra, Makes First Appear­
ances at Assembly
ber 24 to December 8 would be the most suitable despite the fact that this period includes the Thanksgiving vacation.A date for the bidding period has not as yet been determined but it is probable that it will ex­tend throughout the second week.Rushing will .gtart at S:30 a. m. on Saturday, December 8. The silence period will extend from midnight of December 8 to Sunday noon, December 9, at which time the rushec will present- himself to the fraternity of his choice. Fur­ther details of the first semester rushing program will be decided upon' at the next meeting of t'he Inter-Fraternity Council, which
Athletic Association 
Sponsors Football 
Dance After Game
will be held sometime in the near I future.
Collegiate Imps to Furnish 
Music—All Students In­
vited to Attend
Sponsored by the Cawiegic Ath­letic Association, the second foot­ball dance of the season will take place in the Union Saturday, Octo­ber 13, at nine o’clock. The Col­legiate Imps, an eight-piece orches­tra, have been secured to furnish the evening's lhusic.. The* Imps met with favorable comment by newcomers to the football dance held last Saturday evening. To the old-comers this last dance was a revival of the annual custom of .football frolics'' on the Carnegie Campus after each game.Football dances have become a tradition at; Carnegie. After a bleacher session during the strug­gle between the foes and the Tar­tans, the Carnegie fans, students, and enthusiasts, desire to show their approval by some sort of celebration for the coaches and the team.
The football dances serve this purpose and have become. an in-» creasingly popular source of Sat­urday night pleasure. Freshmen are especially urged to attend these dances as they will find it an op­portunity to become acquainted with their football heroes and lo also see them in social action. They, need not fear any molestation ifrom the Sophomores - as all regulations are disregarded at Football Dances. A special effort has been made this year to secure »larger and better, high, standard, collegiate orches­tras.
This.year the football dances will be held in the Union after every home game and on the open . Sat­urday evening preceding the George­town University game. Dances will be held on the Saturday nights of October 13, 20, 27; November 3 and 24.
__ Admission to the dances is not limited but open to all Carnegie students. Friends of students, as well as of the faculty and the team are included in the general invita­tion which Carnegie Tech extends in the celebration. The admission fee is $1.50 per. couple.
ANNOUNCEMENT
Delays in the development of the Campus Pictorial by the organiza­tion sponsoring this new feature for college newspapers have made it necessary to postpone the ap- pearance_of the rotogravure picture section in The. Tartan until the -latter .part of this month. It is expected, however, that within a few weeks the new section will be available to Carnegie students, and indulgence is requested, for the delays and inconveniences accom­panying its introduction. It '‘has been found necessary to continue th§ large size, eight-column page in The Tartan, inasmuch as the pictorial section is to be 'of that size. It wrould be quite impractical to attempt to fold the larger pic­ture section’ within the smaller news pages. From all present* advices the first rotogravure section will consist of four pages, and will ap­pear on October 16. In . subse­quent issues the size of the sec­tion will vary from four to eight pages.
Through this present issue of The. Tartan contains eight pages, no promise to continue such volume is implied. But even with a six-page issue such as the first two of this year, The Tartan is actually larger than the six-column eight- page issues of last year. The num­ber of columns is the same, but in the present size, which conforms with-- standard newspaper practice, the columns are each several in­ches longer, -giving space for much more material .on each page.In any ca^e, however, the staff will continue to give Carnegie the best possible w'eekly newspaper. And it will always be on time!
The average age of the heavy­weight champions of the world at the time they lost their titles was 33 years.
University Women to Con­
vene at Margaret Morrison 
to Plan Million Dollar 
Travel Fund
The Association Maintains Luxuri­ous Homes Abroad for Members’ Use En Tour
Margaret Morrison will be the scene of the biennial meeting of the Pennsylvania and Delaware Di­vision of the American Associa­tion of University Women early in February. The chief purpose of thd meeting will be to consider ways of raising a million dollar fund for fellowships abroad for col­lege women who have obtained the Ph.D. degree. Dr. Agues L. Rod­gers, Professor of Education at Bryn Mawr College, who is chair­man of the Committee on Fellow­ships of the association, has been invited to make the principal ad­dress.The biennial meeting will be held in the Margaret Morrison . College, with Director Breed acting as hostess. Sessions will meet in tlie Asscmb|y Hall. Further details, 
such as the speakers, programs and activities, will be announced later.
The International Federzftion of University Women is composed of associations of college women rep­resenting about 20 countries, of 
which the United States is, one. The headquarters of the federation is in London, while the central of­fice of the American association is located in Washington, D. C.The American association main­tains luxurious homes in the prin­cipal citie? of Europe,
The first General Assembly of the 1928 school year will be held in Carnegie Music Hall at 11:30 this morning. An ambitious pro­gram has been arranged by the Student Council as its initial offer­ing to the student body.
The program will be opened with an address by Bob Waddell, as­sistant football coach. Bob, always a popular talker, will have some matters of particular interest to impart to his listeners. The foot­ball team and its chances for a successful seasQti will be the cen­tral theme of his talk.
Mr. Waddell will be followed by Mr. Dashbach and Mr. Laughlin, who will present a short act. These two performers, who are well re­membered from last year when their humorous antics had the audi­ence in convulsions of laughter most of the time, arc reported bet­ter than ever this year. Their act tomorrow promises to be one of the most amusing skits evcV «cen at a Carnegie gathering.
The Assembly today will be the means of introducing to students an orchestra newly organized on the campus and called the Plaid Night-Hawks. The orchestra will play several popular selections, which will give students their first opportunity to. pass judgment on the new group of musicians.
Following the tradition, the As­sembly will be concluded by the singing of Carnegie's Alma Mater.
It is the request of the social committee of the Student Council that as many students as possible attend General Assembly. The pro­grams are, always interesting and amusing, and are certainly wcii worth tlie effort required to Avallc to the Music Hall. Moreover the General Assembly, which is held only once a month, presents im­portant’ opportunity of fostering scliool spirit and good fellowship among the students.
So iinportant a factor in devel­oping school spirit and a knpwledge of Carnegie’s ideals and traditions is General Assembly considered,, that' for years it has been the cu.^' tom, not only to urge, but'to in­sist that every Freshman attend each' Assembly. Neither men nor women are exempt, and a close watch on the plebe attendance is kept. Mr. Drew and Mr. Mans­field, with their committees from the class of '31, will be on hand lo check the1 attendance. Absence from an Assembly is sufficient: basis for a summons ' to Plebe Trial, and the punishments for. fail-/where any1college woman who is a paid-up - - -..........member of tlie organization and' | «ft to attend, are of a seventy that ho is studying abroad, may ’ n'"'''"cr'nn' ° - -~ .............
side. The advantages of this serv­
ice make it desirable that one’s Alma Mater belong to the associa­tion, $nd it is indeed fortunate' that 
Margaret Morrison women can take advantage of opportunities usually’ offered Lo strictly academic 
schools alone.Rigid requirements are adhered 
to in admitting colleges to the American . Association of Univer­sity Women. Such high standards of scholarship and liberal arts re­quirements are maintained that few technical schools are admitted. Dean Breed, director of Margaret Morrison, has tried to gain admit­tance for Margaret Morrison since 19,12. By changing the courses in 
the Secretarial and Household Eco­nomic Departments, making them more liberal-in their academic re­quirements, Director Breed finally succeeded in having Margaret Mor­rison admitted to membership in 1925. The Fine Arts women are r ot included in the association be­cause of the highly technical na­ture of their work. The only other non-academic college belonging lo the association is Simmons, in Boston.
corresponds with the seriousness , of the offense. The Margaret Mor­rison giVls will meet in the front hall of Margaret Morrison and march down to the Music Hall in / a body, accompanied'by energetic, sophomores. The role of Ajts 
school freshmen girls will be takeri at the Hall by members of the Plebe Regulation Committee of that school.
Gifts Made To Carnegie 
Aid Endowment Fund
The Carnegie Institute of Tech­nology has been the recipient of two gifts,.one of which has helped enormously to increase the amount of the Carnegie Endowment Fund.
The first has been given by the Student Council of Night School which has presented the Endow­ment Fund with the votal balance of the Night School Breakage Fund amounting to $725.65. ' This gift is really presented by each individual member of the Carnegie Tech Night School.. The second gift was that of Mrs. John L. Porter who gave $2,500, the income of which is to provide for the “Mrs. John L. Porter Prizes for Progress.” It amounts to $100 and is given an­nually to a student in the Depart­ment of Painting and Decoration.Mr. John L. Porter' is a mem­ber of the Committee on Institute of Technology and a member of the Board of Trustees. Both Mr.
First Chapel of School Yea»- 
Takes Place Tues. Mornk 
October 16, in Little Theatei
Dr. Hugh Thomson Kerr, of tin Shadyside Presbyterian Church, will be the speaker at the first Chapel of the school year which will be held irf^the Little Theater of the Arts School, on Tuesday, October 16, at 11:30.
Malcolm Hilt#, of the voice de­partment of the Art School, will sing and he will be accompanied*, on the organ, by Mr. Matthew Frey, of the faculty of the Music Department, who has charge of the musical programs for > this year’s ,chapel services. As Mr. Frey sel­dom plays'-at the Chapel, services, it is quite an attraction to have- him play at the first chapel of tl 1928-1929 school year.
Dr. Kerr is a very interestii speaker who has always been pc ular with Carnegie students. T Shadysid^ Presbyterian Chunwhere Dr. Kerr is pastor, is t meeting place of the Teknon Cli an organization on the CarnejCampus for' religious discussions;
The Chapel services for t'year will be held on every. Tu day on which a General or Di sioiial Assembly is not schednl Notices of Chapel will appear the Flagpole 1 in front of /School.
Although chapel is not com; sory, it is very beneficial and p vides a great deal of food I thought. All students, and esf daily the Plebes, should attend
Rockefeller, who has spent summer in Geneva as an cmpl< of the League of Nations Secret and Mrs.* Porter have made many iat, has taken active interest in r generous gifts as they have the lege religious affairs at Princct progress and advancement of Car- where he has been a student negie very much at heart. | three years.

---------------------------------------------------

THE CARNEGIE TARTANTUESDAY, OCTOBER 9, 1928.
in incomplotc, and in «omo cntcn, poKnlbly incorrcct. It Iiuh been compiled, however, 
from tho latest nynilablo datn. Any cor­rection« or additions should bo ucnt in Im­mediately to the Alumni Officc.
BALTIMOHE 
Prcnidont, G. S. Diohl, Bollonn Avenue, iiecrotury and Treasurer, P. H. Dickey, 
1818 Continental Building.BOSTONSecretary, John F. Maxwell, 70 Went Street, 
Urnlntrec, Mann.BUFFALO
Prcoidont, Robert PcrtWr, 130 Hoyt Street. Socrotury find Treasurer, Herbert L. Mocrnhfelder, 34 KctcHum Place.CANTON
President, Frank J. Taylor, 618 Alta Place, N. W., Canton Ohio.’Vico Prcnidont, Henry L. Berber, 015 Grcon Street, Massillon, Ohio.Secretary, Wllmcr H. Tuckcr, 1230^ Cleve­
land Avenue, N. W.Treanuror, George A. Martin, 31C Ninth Street, N. E.CHICAGOChairman, C. J. Copley, 536 Wrlgley 
Building.I'in.nico Committee, Huntley Wallace, Chair­man ; Vic Stromulst, John Harkness. 
Program Committee, John Nation, Chair­man ; Harvey Hiller, Mm. H. W. Davi«. Membership . Committee, C. B. Schmidt, 
Chnirmnn; Mrs, John Harkness, Thad Wheeler.
Publicity, F. W. Cook.VII communications should bo addressed to G. J. Coploy.CINCINNATI 
President, G. C. Smith, Chemical Depart­ment, University o£ Cincinnati. CLEVELAND 
President, A. C. May, Peerless Automatic Machine Company.Vico President, O. I£. Fulmer, 1849 East 101st Street.Secretary, E. P. Batcham, 1080 Union Trust Building.Treasurer, L. U. Lustonberger, 1849 East 101st Street.CLEVELAND WOMEN’S CLAN President, Virglnin Pope, 1910 E. 93rd Street.Vico President, Sarah Henderson. Sccretary-Treasurer, Catherine Allan, .622 E. 124 tli Street.COLUMBUS, OHIO President, N. J. Engle, 266 South High Street.Vicu President, Florence H. Lutz, 91 South Market Street, Logan, Ohio. Secretary and Treasurer, J. R. Paloma, Department of Romance Languages, Ohio State University.CONNECTICUT 
President, C. Arthur Nordstrom, 17 Storling Street, Hartford.Vico President, William Gooby, 10 Madison Street, New Britain.Bccretary and Treasurer, Samuel Flaxman, 92 Vico Street, Hartford.DAYTON, OHIO 
President, F. W. Heckert, 341 Kenilworth Avenue.DETROIT
President, W. Ray Williams, care West- iughoii.Nc Electric & Manufacturing Com­
pany, 1635 Sixth Street,Secretary and Treasurer, C. L. Boyle, 3909 Balfour Road.ERIE
Prouidont, Ray Keller, care Hnmmermill Paper Company.
Secretary and Treasurer, R. C. Warren, care Tho Warren Company.GOLDEN GATE President, G. M. Whisler,'1778 Roso Street, Berkeley.
Secretary and Treasurer, Mrs, R. L. Whar­ton, Box 147, Route 1, Richmond, Calif. HARRISBURG 
President, John G. Todd, 20Vi North Queen Street, Lancaster.Vico President, Henry Y. Shaub, 20% 
North Queen Street, Lancaster.Secretary, Frank Highbergor, care State 
Department of Public Instruction, Harris­burg.HUNTINGTON. W. VA.Becrotary, J. F. DeYoung, 808 Second Street, East.JOHNSTOWN Becrotary, John W. Fritz, 215 John Street.KOPPERS, PITTSBURGH President, D, , J. McFarlin, care Hoppers Construction Company, Union Trust Building.Vico Prcsdent, H. H. Hook...j iecrotary, W. H. Ncoly.!, treasurer. A. G. Wagner,¦ togother with 
J. G. Rico, C. B. Collins, II. E. Warren, composing a Board of Governorq MONONGAIIELA VALLEY 
President, Conrad A. Stone, Box 89L, Charleroi, Pa.Vice President. Mrs. Alice Nixon Conn, 
care Kind Frederick Apartment, Fourth and Dock Streets, Stcubcnvillo, Ohio, leoretnry and Treasurer, A. B. Lowstutter, Lock No. 4, Pa.
MILWAUKEE President, A. II. Toa teaon, 737 Fortieth Street
Becrotary and Treasurer, R. O. Plrrlno, 1125 Cedar Street.NEW YORK SciOretary and Treasurer, Mryon Kilaif, 4609 Avoliun M, Brooklyn, N. Y.Publicity Manager, F. I. Smith, care H. L. Doherty Company, fiO Wall Street. NORFOLKPresident, T. IX Fitzgihbon, 811 Holt Street.NORTHERN NEW JERSEY President. C. W. Gibbs, earo Ingersoll- Rand Company, 1L Broadway, Now York City. ...
Vico- President. E. W. Van Dor Wolk, 73 Grove Street, Montclair, N. J. 
Treasurer, F. K. •Zolgler, 295 Union Avo- miv, Belleville, N. J.Secretary, J. F. Smaney, 211 Locust Street, Roselle Park, N. J.PHILADELPHIA President, M. D. Stott, B4IJ Kathmoro Road.Brookline. Upper Darby, Pa.
Secreiary and Trensuror, T. S. Ropplier, ' care Edwards, Ewinp & VOLLO.X North American Building, Phladelphia.
Chairman Entertainment and Membership Committee. L. E. E.xline, 1520 Real Es­tate Trust Building.
PITTSBURGH President, G. Albert Wagner, care The Ivoppers Company.
Vice President, L. H. Lee, 206 Stanwix Street.Sccretary-Treasuror, Buddy Overcnd, Car­negie Tech.
SCHENECTADY Presidont, J. M. Sumpson, 45 Bedford y Street.
7icc President,\j, L. Knight, care Gen-rj oral Electric Company.
Joerotary and Treasurer, Raymond Gill, 206 Union Street.ST. LOUISfeting Secretary. M. A. Zellar, care of 
Hamilton Company, Inc., 2127 Pine11 Street.
SOUTHERN CALIFORNIA President. Floyd Fisher, 814 North Fair­mont Road, Burbank, Calif.Vice President, James Schoeld; care Co­
lumbia Steel Corporation, 831 Pacific Electric' Building.
Secretary and' Treasurer. Betty Finkelhor, 200 North Oakhursf'Drive, Beverley Hills. Calif.
Executive'-•.Committee, John Meredith and Robert Finbelhov.
TULSAPresident, H. G. Tester, 2202 Exchange Bank Bldg.
Vico President, Arthur J. Kerr, 1617 South Quaker Avenue.
Secretary and '/Treasurer. ‘ H. W. Ponter- man, 902 Mayo Building.WASHINGTON, D. C.
President, J. R. Arnold, 21 Second Street, N. W.Wee President. Harriet' Staples, S611 S.Street. N. W.
'eeretary and Treasurer,' A. M. Pringle, 627 Lexington Place. N. E.YOUNGSTOWN. OHIO 
resident, R. A. Bookmeyer, 1515 Elm Stroet.
loo presidont, Fred C. Beedo, 1324 Hill­man Stvoot.
(crotary nnd Treasurer, Gcorgo Murphy, 1871 Solma Avenue.
Denver.—The estate of the late abort IT; Ingcrsoll, of dollar UcW fame, who died here rccent- , has been left as a trust fund aid boys seeking a college edit­ion, according to, the terms of will filed in New York.,1 though Ingcrsoll estimated the ate as worth _ “over $10,000, onds of the philanthropist esti- atcd it to be worth between 00,000 and $1,000,000.
The trust, to be known as the bert and Roberta Ingcrsoll uildation, will go to boj’s seeking 
collegiate,_ university, or 'profcs- nal education.”
he natives of Uganda, Africa, •sidcr .ants such a delicacy that ients in hospitals are frequently cn a plate.
Friday evening, October 26, at 7 P. M. there will be j 
j a Cabaret Dinner Dance at Webster Hall/ which I j j expect to attend.
Enclosed find my check for-----------tickets, at $2.50 j
j each.
| Name________________----------------------
\ Address-----------------------------------------------
--------------I
f,----------------------j
Class____________
L.
As The Time For The Second Homecoming Approaches 
Plans Near Completion; Changes Made 
in Schedule.
The first day of the Second An­nual Hoinccoming will soon be here. This thought alone should be enough to make any old Car­negie Grad feel glad. Only about two more weeks to the biggest event ever to be held by the Alumni of Carnegie. Never before has such preparation been made for a purely Alumni affair. Two days packed with everything necessary to make an alumnus completely happy. Nothing in the wide world should keep any Carnegie man or woman from attending this, the world’s greatest and largest Alumni Homecoming. If you think that the last statement is exaggerated come back and sec for yourself; wc arc sure that no ¦ one will be disappointed. In fact, they will come back for more, next year.
Now that we have convinced you that this occasion is one which you can not miss, we Svill tell you the plans as completely as they have been developed by the various com­mittees, „up to the present time. Of course the schedule, like that of the Pennsylvania Railroad, is subject to change without notice. Each •-alumnus and each alumna has. by this, time received postal carols, tickcts and notices, all of which contained tentative schedules of events but here is'the one which we believe will be final.
On Friday, October 26, the first day ofi. the Homecoming:11:00 A. M.—Alumni Federation Meeting . in Trophy Room, Gymnasium.1:00 P. M,—Buffet Luncheon in the Field House (Ath­letic Quarters), Dr. Baker’s.Luncheon for 
the Class of 1908, in his officc.2:30 P. M.—Inspection of Build­ings and Grounds.3:30- P. M.—Open House by tlie Administration and Faculty.7:00 P. M.—Cabaret Dinner Dance at Webster Hall.On Saturday, October 27:10:30 A. Mi—Reunion Classes will place in the floor of t h e Administration Building, bronze plates .impressed with their class numerals. ‘ 12:00 M. —Class Reunions and, Luncheons.1:00 P. Mi—Football, Pitt and Car­negie ljrcshman game at Stadium..2:30 P. M.—Football, Pitt and Car- l negie. (Varsity game).6:00 P. M.—Open House at all Fraternities,8:30 P. M.—Football Dance in the Union.On Sunday, October 28:At Home'—All Fra­ternities.Doesn't this lbok like enough to keep anyone Jmsy for a few days at 'least? As never before, each and ¿Very event is entirely for the tastes of the Alumni. Add to all this the pleasure to be derived from meeting your old classmates 
and professors. Jim( your old chum; Mary, your first sweetheart; and last, but , not least, Professor Gecklcr who help 'you through the Math course—in five' years.¡Perhaps your class is- one of those that will hold its reunion at this time. The class' of 1908 will hold its' twentieth reunion; the class., of 1913, its fifteenth; the 
class of 1918, its tenth; tlife class of 1923, its fifth reunion;, and the class of 1928 will hold its first re­union. Arrangements have been made by the class committees and 
the- representatives of the various classes have the tickets for the reunion dinners which they will mail to the members of their re­spective-classes. If you arc a niem-v ber of one of these classes be sure rto attend your class reunion for it only comes once every five years and you never know what you’ll, be doing five years hence. Please remember that we are not trying to be pessimistic* we are merely trying to increase attendance at reunions.Somewhere else on this page is an article which refers to Presi­dent Baker’s invitation to the class of 1908.Friday’s big event is the Cabaret Dinner Dance. This has been the only major change in last year's, program. A great amount of time had. been given to this event in an attempt to make it the most im­portant affair in, the program. Two committees have worked upon this problem and as it has been ar­ranged by_ them it should be an overwhelming success. The dance is to be at Webster Hall, in the main dining room with adjoining rooms if necessary. However there will be room for every alumnus that ever graduated from Carnegie. Dinner will be served at 7 p. m. The tickcts cost $2.50 per plate. The dance music will be furnished by the ¦ Collegiate Ilnps and the entertainment will be furnished by the Old Collegiate Six. Due to the length of time since disorganiza­tion only seven of the boys will be back to amuse you and play the old tunes. Remember that the dance will be informal. Fill in the blank which is at the top of this article and send it in to Miss Andrews in the Gym. Don’t wait 
too long to make reservations for the Cabaret Dinner Dance and that goes twice for the tickets to the Pitt Game.Saturday morning', a new cere­mony will be installed by the re­union classes. In the floor of the Administration Building, between the Registrar’s and the Cashier’s office, each reunion class will place a bronze plate with its class nunier-.j a Is on the plate.’ In the center of |
the floor will be placed the plate of the class of 1908. On it will be inscribed—Charter Class 1908. This plate will be the largest of them all. At each corner of the larger plate will be a small plate for each of the other classes hay­ing their reunions. Each year at the Homecoming the# classes that are having their reunions will add their plates to the others on the floor. The other plates will lie on the diagonals running, from the corners of the central plate. This will be accompanied by imposing ceremony. After this the class re­unions will be held by the .classes, the details to be announced later.
The main reason why the Home­coming is to be at this time is known by all. ;Nothine could bring them back in droves like the old Pitt Game. And this year you will have an added incentive. Aside from the game, which you would, have attended regardless, there will be all these other events. This Department is not connected in an., way with the Athletic Depart-, mentj however wc can fell you, this much: The Pitt-CarricgieGame has always been a big game, always hard fought, always close enough to be ^supremely interesting and the 1 outcome’ has always been awaited anxiously by hundreds, nay, by thousands. Education and even business in the Pittsburgh district is disrupted before - and after this important occasion; be­fore in preparation, and afterwards in celebration-- or dejection.- Can’t you remember how happy and ex­ultant, you were when we defeated' Pitt? Of course it was necessary to graduate after 1922 in order to experience this sensation. Pitt has won two of the last five g^mes. That is, since relations were re­sumed in 1923. Wc feel sure that at the end of this .season Pitt will still have won two’ games since 1923: On the other hand,;, ourfriends up on the hill' may be of a different opinion. But that is what makes the game interesting, and. brings the grads back year.'’after year. No matter what the relation between the two teams is'; it will always remain The Game, especial­ly to those alumni who saw their team lose, year after year,1 but never lost their Old Carnegie Fighting Spirit!
The lickct blanks which '-were mail.ed to all alumni should he fiUcd in and sent to the Graduate Manager’s Office. There will be a very • large, in fact too large a de­mand for tickets so to secure seats for the game you should mail your- check immediately.. Good seats are pretty scarce the day before the game. The paid up alumni gets first choice; alumni who have not paid up their dues., get second choice; and the general public 
comes last, which is as it should be.As yet there is no real indication of. .how many will return for the Second Annual Alumni Homecom­ing^ It is really the first Home- coming on a large scale and as-'it has no precedent no one knows just what to expect. However it •is merely an 'accumulation: of the best alumni features during the previous years. The Alumni Office has, however, received letters from a, good number of the alumni sig­nifying1'their intention., to att nd the Annual Homecoming. Soma1 of those who will be. back are: O. A.Dickman, I; M. A. Buck}.-/, F24j T^asdalc Barney, A’24; “Doc.” Stewart; “Al” Schellinger; John Protrowski, I; H. Moershf,elder, I, ’24; “Rube” Hedlurcf, E, ’22; “Skin­ny” Humbert, 'E’24; “Til lie" Til- brook, E’15; “Doc.” Taylor; “Ted” Rcpplier, I’23.
Write to the Alumni Office and tell Miss Andrews- that you intend to come back, to school--- on the 26th ancL27th of October, enclosing your ticket blank for the Cabaret Dinner Dance.. She -will be glad, to give* you any information which you can not .find in the Tartan or the Alumnus. Only .one. more issue of the Tartan will reach your office before.tlie Homecoming unless you live near school. So next week’s issue will contain the‘ final plans and schedule. Everyone will enjoy the occasion more if he comes back knowing just what is going to happen and what he must at­tend. Be sure to read all the dope between now and the 26th.
i CLAN NEWS Ii
YOUNGSTOWN CLANThe Youngstown 'Clan held a meeting on Monday, September 24, for the purpose of election of offi­cers for the coming year. It was the opening meeting of the clan and resulted in a very good at­tendance and an unusual amount of enthusiasm. • Interesting discus­sions were held, and it developed that a number of the Youngstown Clan are planning to attend the Notre Dame game at South Bend on November 19.The elections resulted in Myron C. Kinder, president; Mr. Kline, vice president, and -Mr. Arnold, secretary treasurer.
CONNECTICUT CLAN
The Connecticut Clan, which is beginning its active work for the coming year, 192S-1929, is- arrang­ing to hold its regular monthly meetings at the State Club,/during the third week of each month.
Services Of Colleges |, j
Extended To All Alumni j THE LADDER i ---- i.„.. *
NOTICE, CHARLEROIThe Macbeth-Evans Glass com­pany of Charleroi has at least 12 Carnegie alumni in its employ, ac­cording to reports received here.The general manager, Mr. Blau; the business manager, physicist, illuminating engineer, and others ar^ all former Carnegie men, and it seems, with so many graduates holding such prominent positions 
in the same firm that it should be only natural to have a successful Charleroi Clan. But as yet thereis not even evidence of an attempt at such aii. organization.Show some spirit, grads, organ­ize'your clan. Ten is the minimum number considered in clan forma­tion, and you have 12 in yourcompany alone. Get your men to­gether aiid look up any others inCharleroi and the surrounding dis-1 tricts. Miss Andrews can help you locate them if you wish this serv­ice. Elect your president, secre­tary and treasurer; draw up your 
by-laws; show some spirit and ac­tion, and send your news in to the Tartan.
Carnegie Alumni Should 
Get Introductory Cards
To the various hotels co-operat­ing with the Intercollegiate Alum­ni Hotel' Plan, Miss Andrews, Alumni Secretary, has sent tlie 
name's and addresses of Carnegie Tech graduates. In connection fyitli this there are introduction cards which each alumniis should have/ The introduction cards are of a decided advantage to the alumni. Who carry them because they / establish personal contact between the traveler and the man­ager of the hotel. This card also signifies that the person having it is entitled to special courtesy and attention accordcd to guests of Intercollegiate Alumni Hotels. Therefore, Miss Andrews urges that’ each graduate send in for one of the Introductory Gards.The following is a list- of hotels who are members of the Intercol­legiate Hotel- Plan:Southern, Baltimore, Md.Claremont, Berkeley, Calif.Bethlehem, Bethlehem, Pa.Bellevue, Boston, Mass.Blackstone, Chicago, 111.Allertou House, Chicago, \ 111.Windermere, Chicago, 11).Allerton House, Cleveland, O.Neil House, Columbus, O.Californian, Fresno, -Calif.Muchlebach, Kansas City, Mo.Ij,incoln, Lincoln, Neb.Biltmore, Los Angeles, Calif.Park, Madison, VVis.Nicollet, Minneapolis, Minn.Mount Royal, Montreal, Can.Monteleone, New Orleans, La.Roosevelt, New York, N. Y.Waldorf-Astoria, New York, N. Y.Northampton, Northampton, Mass.Oakland, Oakland, Calif.Pere Marquette, Peoria, 111.Benjamin, Franklin, Phila., Pa.Schenlcy, Pittsburgh, Pa.Powers, Rochester, N. Y.
Sacramenta, Sacramcnta, Calif.' St. James, San Diego, Calif.Palace,.,. San Francisco, Calif.Olympic,, Seattle, Wash.Syracuse, Syracuse,' N. Y.King Edward, Toronto, Can.Urbana-Lincoln, Urbana, 111.Willard, Washington, D .C.Lycoming, Williamsport, Pa.
The story goes that several col­lege presidents were discussing what they would do after they re­
tired. What would they be fit for, was the question.
“Well,” said one of them, *‘I don’t know that I’d be fit for any­thing, but I know what I’d like to do. I’d like to be superin­tendent of an-, orphan asylum so I’d,never get any letters from par­ents.”
“I’ve a much better ambition,” exclaimed another. “I want to be 
warden of a penitentiary. The alumni never,'come back to visit.”
Now that we are coming more and more to admit that education must continue throughout life, the colleges and universities must do more in the direction of continuing the education of their alumni, so we arc reminded by Daniel L. Grant, director of an investigation of educational relations between colleges and alumni. He recalls that -many other relationships bc- ween the colleges and their alumni have become well known, such as the social, the political, the finan­cial, and the athletic; but that the educational relation has been neg­lected. The old slogan was, lie says, “What can we do for Alma Mater,” but now the movement is rather in the direction of Alma Mater doing something for the alumni.
Most of the confusion in .the present college course is due to the effort to crowd too much into the four years, thinks Mr. Grant. Why not let some of it run over into the alumni year?
The results of Mr. Grant’s sur­vey shows that there are about 50 colleges and universities now in the country which have recognized that there is a real educational ob­ligation which they have to their alumni, and are setting out to meet this . need. The first in the field was Amherst (1923). Michigan and her “Alumni University” idea is one 'of the latest, and certainly the most discussed of any such movement.
What are the educational demands which these 50 colleges are trying to supply their alumni, and how is the work being done?
Perhaps the first is professional guidance and education. Next is cultural education. The third is education to deal intelligently with the large issues of :comnion con­cern.
These three kinds of alumni edu­
cation are being carried on by means of reading courses, reading lists, and a readers’ adviser service,' supplemented by books ‘from the college library, whereveri the alum­nus is , out of reach of any adequate local library. Smith College; for instance, has organized more, than twenty different reading -courses, and for each of the past four years has matriculated from about sixteen lo , twenty per c.ent of its total alumnae in some of these courses.
There is, however, one significant limitation, Mr. Grant points out, a limitation which “grows out of the narrow institutional outlook of organized alumni work in the past. This in turn is prbbably very large­ly a product of intercollegiate ath­letic competition which has given us .an institutional complex.”. He believes that an alumnus of a col­lege in. Maine Who lives in Cali­fornia will get educational beUcfit more easily from the California col­leges, “regardless of how superior alma mater may have seemed to all other educational institutions in the country. In this continuing- cducation-for-the-educatcd wc have a work which is going to cut across institutional lines ratlier liberally.”
MISS ELIZABETH HAYESMiss Elizabeth Hayes, of the Steubenville road, has been ap­pointed instructor of Home Eco­nomics in the Cambridge public schools.Miss Hayes was a member of the 1923 graduating class of Brown High school and graduated from Carnegie Institute of Tcchnology, at Pittsburgh, June, 192S, where she studied largely, in the fielcfc of textiles; costume designing and other branches of home economics. She will co-opcrate with Miss White, instructor of Home Eco­nomics at Brown High school, and will spend part of .'her time among the grade students.The vocational department of the Cambridge schools has., in­creased greatly in the last few years. The. employment of Miss Hayes increases the total of teachers in the department to six, three teaching manual training and three teaching home economics. 
The teachers arc, handicapped by the lack of proper facilities, many students being unable to take the subjects. Several high school boys are forced to go to _the Garfield building to receive instruction.Manual training and home eco­nomics are listed upon the curricu­lum for the general course at the high school and the work done in these subjects is not additional, but counts in the 16 units required for graduation.
Please send me one subscription for the PUPPET, i 
Enclosed is $2.
Name_________i__________________________________________I
i
Address__________________________________________________j
Circulation Manager,
Carnegie Tech PUPPET,
Box 172, City Post Office,
Pittsburgh, Pa.
WALLACE G. IMHO^FWallace G. Imlioff, formerly metallurgist of the electrical ma­terials department of Hubbard & Co., Pittsburgh, has become presi­dent of the Wallacc G. Imhoff Co., Pittsburgh, consultant in zinc coat­ing. Mr. ïnihôff, là graduate of the Carnegie Institute of Technology, Pittsburgh, has had wide experi­ence in the iron and- steel indus­try. He has written many techni­cal articles on the practical phases 
of iron and steel and is the author of “Practical Features of Pickling,” which appeared in Iron Trade Re­view recently.
Budapest.—Protests on , the part of _ middlerclass Hungarians , who desire to send their children toy college has caused the Hungarian government to begin, to retreat from its policy of reducing the college enrollment by 30. per cent this year.Following the criticism of his plan to cut down the number of new students, on the ground that Hungary already had too many “intellectuals” out of work, Count Kuno Ivlebclsburg, Minister of Ed­ucation, is now reported to have doubled the number to be admitted to the Law School of the Univcr- sitv of Budapest. Negotiations arc under-way, also, for increasing the number of general students, regard­less of the Klebelsburg “reduction” edict of last .July.
PHILLIP S. DONNELLPhillip S. Donnell, dean of the, school of engineering of the New Mexico Agricultural College for the last five years,-today was nam­ed by. the state board of agricul­ture as dean of the engineering school at the Oklahoma A. & M. college.Donnell takes the place in the Agricultural and Mechanical: col­lege faculty which has been vacant since the dismissal of Dean E. P. Boyd a year ago. After Boyd was dismissed, R. L. Rhoads was plac­ed in charge of the engineering school as acting dean. Rhoads re­signed to accept a place in the faculty of the University of Wy­oming.He was with the government in coast survey work about four years and was -assigned to Alaska and the Philippine Islands. He re­turned and received his masters de­gree in electrical engineering at Harvard, after attending two years there.For four years lie was with the
CRAIG RESTAURANT
412 South Craig Street 
TRY OUR 
REGULAR DINNERS 
40c and 50c
Montreal.—The use of hip .flasks by Canadian co-eds was deplored as one of the‘social plagues of Canadian life by a gathering of French speaking surgeons at their annual convention at Quebec.The medical men declared -that if the new fashion is to prevail the dignity, virtue and mental state of Canadian girls is in real peril.
The surgeons passed resolutions which asked the government to prohibit the sale of hip flasks as it already does the sale of dangerous firearms, and that liquoj- advertise­ments be suppressed.
SCHENLEY
HAND
LAUNDRY
W. Y. ART, Prop.
418 S. CRAIG ST.
We Laundry Anything
Tuxedo and 
Full Dress 
Suits to Hire
Special Student 
Rates
I,N 3CAREGLS
MEN’S TAILOR 
335 Fifth Avenue
60C State Theater Bldg.
JRecommended
by the English Department of
Carnegie Institute of Technology
WEBSTEK5® 
C©LLE©IATE
The Best Abridged Dictionary—Based upon
WEBSTER’S NEW INTERNATIONAL
A Time Saver in Study Hours. Those questions about words, 
people, places, that arise so frequently in your reading, writ­
ing, study, and speech, are answered instantly in this store of 
ready information. New words like dactylo­
gram, electrobus, ilechcttc; names such as 
Cabell, Hoover, Smuts; new Gazetteer en­
tries such as Latvia, Vimy, Monte Ada- 
mello. Over 106,000 words; 1,700 illustra­
tions; 1,256 pages; printed on Bible Paper. 
See li at Your College Bookstore or Write for information to the Publishers.
G. & C. MERRIAM CO.
Springfield, Mn*s.
Weston Electric company as trans­mission' engineer. From that po­sition lie went into the army and served as a major during the war. At"the close of the war he went to' the Carnegie School of Tech­nology at Pittsburgh, Pa., as teach­er of electrical engineering.
Puppet Plans Many Keen 
Issues For Ensuing Year
Puppet is back on tho campus for another, year of frolic, and it is said that the clever old dog has even learned new tricks. The first issue was out a week ago as the Beginner's Number, and those to follow include the Pittsburgh Num­ber, the Thanks giving and N. Y. U. Number, the Alumni Number, True 
Love Magazine, High Life Num­ber, the Tinsel Issue, the Travel Number and the • Commencement Number. Iii all there’s about live dollars’ worth of fun and excite­ment crammed into the_ issue for this year, and Carnegie alumni have an opportunity to get it all for two dollars. The staff will mail out the copies promptly to all sub­scribers, and all you have to do is fill otit tlie blank on this page, attach a check or money order for two dollars, and send it in to the Circulation Manager, Carnegie Tech Puppet, Box 172 C. I. T. Post Office, Pittsburgh, Pa. You’ll en­joy the quips and cracks of “By the Way,” The Sage of Skibo, and the" newsy reviews and editorials, along with all the bright ones from our contemporaries. Send in the blank howl
Berlin—Aii old man, known to his Frankfort-on-thc-Main . neigh­bors simply as “Uncle Mezzofanti,” is believed to hold a world's record by knowing and understanding more than 200 languages. The attain­ment never before has been ap­proached, it is believed.
Let’s Go To
TECH
Barber Shop
FOR OUR HAIR CUTS
CORNER FORBES & CRAIG 
STREETS
PRESIDENT BAKER TO GIVE 
LUNCHEON FOR CLASS OF '03
To the Class of 190S, including their wives and husbands, President Baker has extended a luncheon in­vitation during the Sccond Annual Alumni Homecoming. The lunch will be given Friday, October 26, at 12 o’clock, in the Administration Building.
To all others a buffet lunch will be served in the Field House. This applies to ’ both men and women. There will be an opportunity to inspect the training quarters after lunch.
1908 was the first graduating class and is composed of Science and Arts only. There are fifty- six or seven alumni in this class, and it is hoped that they will all attend the lunch to be given for them.
As reunions arc held in the first, fifth, tenth, fifteenth, and twentieth years, this is the year for the re-, unions of the classes of 190S, 1913, 1918, 1923, 1928. Jt is hoped that they will all have the greatest re­union that they have ever had.
Provincetown, Mas., a keeper of traditions, is the only town in the United States that has a town crier.
Attention Students!
We sell and rent all makes 
of typewriters. Portable anJ 
Standard Machines.
See our Big Supply and get 
special student 'rates.
Standard Typewriter 
Company
129 FIFTH AVENUE 
Atlantic 0342
_ ’
T
HAT’S the telephone“Hello” in Madrid. In London, itV'Are 
you there?” But in many foreign countries, Americans find a 
universal language in the telephone salutations. It’s good old 
“Hello”—subtle tribute to the fact that the telephone is an 
American invention.
Andsoitis withelevatorservice. Even though they saytcDiga” 
in Spain, the architects of the magnificent new Madrid Telephone 
Building unhesitatingly said“Otis” because Spain demanded the 
last word in elevators. You will find in Madrid the same type of Sig­
nal Control Elevators that are now installed in those monumental 
telephone buildings in America, in New York, Cleveland, St. Louis 
and San Francisco.
OTIS ELEVATOR COMPANY
Offices in All Principal Cities of the Wtarid

---------------------------------------------------

TUESDAY, OCTOBER 9, 1928.THE CARNEGIE TARTAN
Uhe Carnegie flMaifc
'A Section of the Tartan Devoted to the Night Students
Employment for 
Night Students
Service Primarily Intended 
for Students Seeking Work
Every year the school, through ts Bureau of Recommendations, issists the night students in sccur- ng suitable employment to supple­ment their studies. This servicc is :specially intended for those who ire out of employment, but is also :xtendcd to those who wish work more in line with their training.Mr. B. J. Kristof, Room 155 A, is in charge of this work and will be glad to interview you as soon as your schedule has been made. The office is open October 3, 4, 5, 8, 9, 10, 11, 12,-and every Mon- lay and Thursday evening during school year from seven until nine.
Night School Employ­
ment
Night school placement fpr this :urrent year '.s well under way. To date fifteen positions have been filled, and from present indications it would appear that the number of placements will exceed those of lai;L year. The following list in­dicates the fields in which the placements were made extending through September:
Architecture ------:---------------- 1Civil ________________________ 1Drafting __________________ 1Electrical ------------------------------2Experimental ------------------------1General ------------------------------' 4Machine Production --------------5
Total-------------------------------15
This service is extended to reg­istered night students at no cost to them.The student is requested to file his application for a position with the Bureau during its busine'ss hours which extend from 9 to 5 daily except Saturday when the closing hour is noon. From the. present time and extending through u.itil October 12 the office will be open every evening from 7 to 9 o’clock. During the balance of the school year the regular evening will be Monday and Thursday at which time the same hours will be observed.B. J. Kristof,\ In charge Night Student Placement.
Learning Through Labor
Students Go Job Hunting
FENCING
A Forgotten Art
I l^optRftiiNGDAYANoNIGHT
ENGRAVERS 
HALFTONES COLOR PLATES 
ZINC ETCHINGS 
COMMERCIAL PHOTOGRAPHY 
ARTISTS and 
ILLUSTRATORS
POST-SUN Buildinq 
PITTSBURGH
Phonos : GRsnt 1654- or 1655
Students who labored in Ameri­ca’s industries during the summer will meet in October to digest and compare their excursions into the life of labor. One conference is to be held at Earlham College, Richmond, Indiana, on October 19; another at Brookwood Labor Col­lege, at Katonah, New York, on the twenty-eighth. The confer­ences are being held by a group of co-operating organizations, un­der the leadership of James My­ers of the Federal Council of 
Churches of America.Geographically this movement of students into industry covered the principal cities from New . York to Denver and from the Great Lakes to the Rio Grande while physically and mentally it ran the gamut of the experiences of those who work with their hands. Job-hunting was one of the rnost vivid experiences of all the students, for unemploy­ment is prevalent everywhere. At Houston the students worked at three different jobs in as many weeks. And when jobs were found they were not of the best. In Houston one boy was held at his work, without a pause for supper, until one o’clock in the morning. A girl fainted after a few hours’ labor jn a laundry. Another work­ed 19 days without a day of rest. In the Ford 'factory a student found the “speeding up” process almost unbearable. Nor did lie relish the 15-minute period alloted for lunch.In Detroit the largest group was at work. It was composed- of 50 students from 19 colleges and uni­versities. Wherever the students worked they always sought to meet with their fellows periodi­cally to report on their work and compare observations.What this unique method of studying American industry at first hand means to those who partici­pate is revealed by Arthur P. Clow, Dartmouth ’29: "Its ‘educationalcontribution is important. It is a practical course in the realities of life and has not been limited in its, scope. Psychology becomes re­lated to certain cases to be stud­ied. Sociology, of course, becomes more real when one is thrown so closely into contact with the prob­lems which one finds in tcxt-books. I might go on through the various subjects studied in college and show how this experience in the Bowery is giving*me a new slant on each.”
University of Texas.—As an in­surance Lhat blanket .tax athletic tickets will not be transferred, the University of Texas athletic coun­cil has arranged a method whereby the picture of each student paying for a blanket tax will be placed on his athletic ticket.This action was forced by the persistence of students in other years in allowing their friends and roommates who had not paid for blanket taxes to attend games they themselves were unable to attend.It was also necessary to devise some means of preventing scalping of rooting section tickets for big games, a practice which tended t,o destroy the effectiveness of the section.The University of Texas blanket' tax saves the students $65 in cam­pus expenses throughout the year.
QUALITYSTUDENT PRICES
Daschbachs Restaurant and Dining Hall
3808 FORBES STREET
All Makes of Typewriters, New and Used 
Sold—Rented—Repaired
rCRA IGAA ESTUNRGAUR tCJQ HOLJ
Royal Portable Distributors- 
New Main Store 
McCloy BIdg.
624 LIBERTY AVE.
-COURT 8320
Branch Store 
428 FOURTH AVE.
AN OPEN 
MIND....
Will consider every circumstance which enters into the course of his daily life.
Live carefully, and plan thoughtfully to provide reserve for your future.
Your home bank offers every facility to meet your present needs and future requirements with an up-to-the-minute financial service.
' Banking hours: 9 A. M. until 3 P. M.
Saturday: 9 A. M. to 12 Noon; 7 to 9 P. Mi Evening
Oakland Savings & Trust Co.
“THE OAKLAND BANK”
Member Federal Reserve System
Where Meyran Crosses Forbes Street
Idle Thoughts of an Idle Night Student1 Plea For Used Books MOVIE THEATER TICKETS ROTOGRAVURE
A Forgotten Art
In these days of Glynn and Del- mar, we are very apt to forget those things that made life endur­able for our never to be forgotten ancestors, and among the most toglected of these little details is the art -of fencing. But if one would only spare the time to peruse a history of not only fencing, but the entire story of* the evolution of swords and sword-fighting he 
would find that this particular branch of research would reveal more interesting bits of history than a more prosaic historical treatise on world affairs.
While most of the uninitiated believe that any type oj sword­play is fencing, it is a well known fact that true skill in this line was. not developed untiP the advent of the rapier which was designed by the Italians and* Spaniards. These races chiefly lived on the bounty won by their skill and valor in this line of work.
Although the knife, and its elong­ated brother/ the^ sword has existed among men as long as man in his present form or rather his more civilized form has roamed the earth, sword-fighting as an art has long been held back by man’s lack of knowledge in treating metals so that they could withstand the rough treatment accorded” side-arms.
Practically the whole time from the dawn of civilization to the Medieval times, the sword rarely if ever, exceeded the length of eighteen inches or tvent-four at the most. In fact, the Romans made themselves rulers of theworld with blades of the almost insignificant length of ten inches. But as perhaps you know, or at least can realize, there is no dex­terity required’ to stand a footaway from the enemy and strike him down with such a weapon. It was more a matter of speed than anything else, for that which is true in most things, namely, the one who strikes the quickest and hardest is the winner of all of his encounters.
But with the advent of theknights who worp heavy armor and mounted themselves on suit­able steeds, the footmen - found themselves handicapped by the fact that it was necessary to lean far out in -th.e saddle to strike with such a short weapon. And even if he should be sufficiently fortu­nate to force a blow through, he found that these light blades made little if any impression on the armor.
These difficulties brought about the invention of the two-handed swords, which -were merely heavy bars of iron, fitted with a suitable grip, intended to crush the pro­tecting plates of the opponent. But again an embarrassing problem arose, for only the stronger of the 
men-at-arms could wield such mas­sive bludgeons. But thci.r advan­tages were too great to cause their abandonment and the leaders of the nations consoled themselves with gathering about themselves the strongest and most -incorrigi­ble ruffians they could cull from the scums of their cities in order that these weapons' could be ef­fectively used.
But at last the end was reached. Poictiers and Grccy proved to the world that plate clad cavalry was not as invincible as had been sup­posed and the' foot soldier at last came into his own. The bowmen remained for a long time the back­bone of the military organization; but the members of the better classes, those who could afford the 
huge expense engendered by en­listing the services of a foreigner who had learned the use of lighter types of blades, were loath to be armed in the same manner as peo­ple/less fortunate. As a result the sword, the rapier, the dagger, the foil and sabre were developed in rapid suocession.
Naturally, each style had its ad­herents and soon it became appar­ent that certain types were more adapted to military uses than the others. The Spanish' became fa­mous at rapier play, the English at straight swords, the stolid Teu­ton for his methodical style with any type of play, and the French­man for his versatility and ease for developing the mere act of quarreling with new weapons.lifter the passing of what was termed “open style>” the different -methods of using the steel were noted to dwindling until only the two great divisions that still re­main in use totlay were left, i. e., the French style and the Spanish style;
The basic difference between these two lies in the manner of attack. The Frenchman depends on bis skill and craft to be^t his adversary, while the Italian is a strong advo­cate -of strength and brute force to enable him to crush his oppo­nent at a single stroke if possible. Many and varied are the supporters of each style and- there have been numerous encounters to prove the worth of each- style. While neither side has gained any advantage through this needless bloodshed, we moderns arc very apt to choose the French style for reasons quite apparent.While Jt is all in the point of view, it is believed that the public sentiment is voiced in the remark that a Hercules is required to* make an Italian fencer while a woman can rise to marvelous proficiency under the French method.
—H. E. McG.
Oh, boy, did you see that line ¦ last week. It looked like all the people in Pittsburgh and vicinity had decided to go to night school. No foolin'' it was the biggest mob that I have ever seei> on registra- 
tion,_night and it sorta worried me as to where they intended putting them all. But just wait until Jan­uary and then there will be plenty of room again. It made the old heart beat a lot faster to see many of the old gang back again and they, certainly looked as fit as fiddles'. Even some of the pro­fessors still remembered me, but how could they do otherwise. If you tried to teach me as some of them have, you wouldn’t forget in a hurry. One of my cliem. profs used to dread the time when I went to the laboratory as lie was always, looking for the whole darn school to blow up judging from the way the’apparatus was handled, but it wasn’t, so I’d rather not hear anymore about that.To the new students, permit to remind them, that they were given hand books when they registered. Now these books were not -'pri­marily intended to be taken home and given to the baby,_or lost, or used solely for the telephone num- | bers of the dates, but instead were handed to you in order that you may familiarize yourself' with the ways of Carnegie. Read it through carefully and then you will realize more fully the responsibility you have assumed by identifying your­self with the night school. Learn 
the songs and yells and don’t be \ifraid to use them when the. time comes. If you can't sing, do it 
anyhow. Nobody else is trying to ^ing anyhow so what’s1 the differ­ence; but know the words, and make all the noise you can.
Have just been informed that the night students are eligible for practically any of the dances on 
the campus. This includes , the for­mal as well as the informal af­fairs. There is one point though 
in connection with the formal af­fairs and that is you must -have been on the campus several years and also that you confer with some one on the committee beforehand. Now that this question is settled hope that all you fellows who have 
been wondering . whether or not you could get in, will start going. That reminds me of the last time
The great cathedral of Cologne, in Germany, which was begun in 124S, was completely neglected from the fifteenth century until 1S23. It was finally completed in 18S0, niorc than six centuries after it was sUi.rJ«Sii
j
I tried to step out formally. No j 1 won't tell it because it was too . pitiful to behold much less telling.Well, Gang, the old frost is on the pumpkin again so that means football. Is there anything sweeter | than a nice clear, cool day in the j early autumn and sitting out there | with the stands reflecting every j 
color of the rainbow, the band i promenading the field, the, late­comers hurrying to their .seats, the yells and cheers, the incessant chat- | ter of those discussing the team’s prospects and then - the players trotting into the enclosure, the 
toss-up, the players lining up and then tlie whistle. Oh, boy, what a thrill. You sit there on needles arid pins‘ hoping that no one
iumbies, that the next play car­ries' the ball over the necessary yardage to make another first down and maybe they do and maybe they don’t, but whichever the case may L>e you get a thrill anyhow. And then your team works the balldown toward the others’ goal line
I and then how you pray for a j touchdown. Perhaps you never 
| knew you could pray before. And 
j then one of the backs starts around I r-u. end and just manages to get | over the line. Immediately the
j tension cases up and all you can I do is yell ,and yell some more jou’re so excited. Of course, your 
; team doesn’t always win and then you may feel somewhat down­hearted, but even at that you al­ways have the, satisfaction of know­ing that they gave their best, but that their best was not quite good enough. Boys, if you really want a real . sensation get yourself a ticket and go out to see this year’s 
team. From all reports it must be a. world-beater and it seems about the least that we can do is to go out and root for them and show them that we are with them. So let’s have some spirit at these football games from the night stu­dents. Let’s go.
Did you notice the boys with guns when you registered? Well, in case you don’t know, they be­long to the R. O. T. C. They cer­tainly look nice in their uniforms and it is a pity that we don’t have an opportunity to sec more of them. Sorta brings back memories of the time when bands played and footsteps tramped along the streets.
—K.
Student Book Shop Buys As 
Well As SellsDiscount Allowed Night StudentsFeature to Commence October 16th
The Student Book Shop in the Skibo Inn will be open in the eve­nings from 6:45 to 8:45 for the convenience of the night students. Second-hand books are sold at a discount and this is a good oppor­tunity for you to save sonic money on your book's.
This- is the first year that this shop has existed, consequently the | supply of books is limited and should anyone desire to sell their old books,« they may do so by taking them to the sliop where they will be purchased at half price, provided, of course, they are in good condition.Now here’s your chance. Old books in the majority of- cases only• clutter up the house and take up space needed for books of a different nature. The Book Shojj needs the books badly and you need the space so why iTCt bring them out as soon as you can be­cause the big rush is on and a couple of days’, delay will make all the difference in the world. So let’s get those old books into the book shop.
Chewing gum, be it observed, is an ancient and respectable prac­tice, probably indulged in by the venerable Incas as well as the old civilization of the Orient. Behead­ing also was an accepted custom in those days. Now it is pre­dicted that if gum chewing per­sists at such functions as the Chan­cellor’s reception, the head-chop- pcrs’ art might justifiably return to full flower. Not that anyone 
should object to conversing with someone whose jaws arc other­wise occupied. Nor that we dis­
like to park newly-pressed trousers on an area already used by cast-off gum. Far from it. But we can’t bear to think of anyone strangling or, gum and punch.—Daily Kansas.
In past years the day students 
were allowed a slight discount at 
the theaters owned by the Stanley- 
Clark-Davis Company. Through 
the efforts of \Mr. Siebcrt, this privilege has been extended to the night students.
There will be a reduction of from ten to thirty per ccnt on tickets purchased for any of the shows operated by the above firm.In order to permit the night men to take advantage of this of­fer, arrangements have been “made for their distribution from Room 12 in the Industries building, on Wednesday evenings, from 7 to 7:30.All that is required is your reg­istration card, so be sure to bring it along with you. This distribu­tion will continue at the same time and the same place as long as 
there is a demand for them. If you are a frequent visitor at the movies, you may, as well avail yourself of this privilege.
Ginger is the oldest spice known. Gingerbread cakes in the shape of dolls, horses, and other objects, have been made for the amusement of children since the Middle Ages.
The new Rotogravure scction 
\yill be incorporated in the issue 
of October 16, so you all “want to be on the lookout for this new feature. This publication is one ol the largest subscribers and wc know ¿hat you will enjoy reading this page.
Incidentally, the TARTAN wil! buy any pictures that arc out oi tl. - ordinary and yet have to dc „with anything interesting on the Campus. But it must concern Car­negie and be unique, so let’s set what you night men can do in this line.
Fifteen miles of steel column: will be electrically welded together to form the book racks of the new memorial library at Yale Univer­sity.
DANCING
At JACQUES SCHOOL
CRAIG & FORBES ST.Beginners Monday anil Friday Eve­
nings. Advanc6d, Thursday and Satur­day Evenings. Private lesnons by ap­
pointment. Mayflower 7891
STUDENT TAKE NOTICE
Special Rates For Yqu At
TECH TAILORS
CLEANING, PRESSING AND TAILORING
“Come In and See STEIN’’
Mayflower 7795 325 S. Craig- St.
We Call and Deliver
ANNOUNCING
POWER OF QUIETNESS) One For The Plumbers
Think for a minute of all the people you know. Put them in two classes; the noisy, boisterous, voluble folk and the quiet, calm, placid ones. Which kind would you prefer to spend most »of your time with? The latter, of course. As far as getting things done is concerned at the end of the day which class has accomplished the more. Invariably the latter.
Picture yourself a customer and enter with me a department where a lot of unnecessary loud talking is going on among the employees. A distinctly unfavorable impression is made upon your mind at once. Is it not so? Again go with me to a business office where every one and everything moves quietly and systematically. Docs not such an organization command’ your respect at once?
Reflect with me* about the most forceful forces of nature. Do they not operate quietly?“Thunder, booms with the noise of a thousand cannons, but it is the silent lightning which pos­sesses power. •^he sun, on which all life, on this planet depends1, operates with­out suggestion of noise.The electric current, the modern miracle worker of miracle workers, indulges is no screeching.'•That mysterious thing which wc call time keeps on the even tenor of its , way as frequently as the motionless air.It is only the surface of the sea that ever becomes tumultuous; the depths are as silent as the grave.” Individuals, institutions, nature, all prove for us the power of quietness.
Don’t be secretive, sphinx-like, that is worse, much worse than be­ing noisy and voluble. But if you would be truly companionable and most efficient, be quiet.Try to acquire the reputation of a quiet person if you would be a forceful person.
DISCOUNTS ON GASOLINE AND OIL OPENTO STUDENTS
The Faculty Welfare Committee has recently announced that the students of Carnegie may now pur-’ chase gasoline and oil1 at a special discount. A well-known gasoline station on North Craig street has agreed to sell Atlantic Gasoline at a discount of 2 cents on a gallon and Mobile Oil or Quakerstate Oil at a discount of 5 cents on a quart. Judging .from the number of stu­dent cars on the campus this should be a welcome announcement. Cards enabling the students to obtain this discount may be secured upon pre­sentation of their auto registration 
license to Professor K. D.. Schaffer, Room 210, Administration Hall. Mr. Schaffer has only a limited supply of these cards and it would be best to apply for them imme­diately at his office. .
You—There’s no running water in my room.Hotel Proprietor—No, very sor­ry—they’re fixing the pipes.You—When will they be fixed?H. P.—Oh, pretty soon, now.P. M.—(And pretty late.)You—There’s no running water in my room. '11. P.—No, ^vcry sorry; they’re still fixing the pipes.You—But they must have gone by this time for the day.H. P. (annoyed that you should guess it)—Yes, very sorry.You—Then there won’t be any running water in my room until tomorrow?H. P.—No, very sorry, but thej will have them fixed early in the morning.You—Bing!Judge (next morning)—Well, on the testimony of _ the conversation I will acquit you. The plumber is fined one hundred dollars if he can be found, and the hotel pror prietor must pay for the beefsteak to put over his eye,
At the Gillies' Ball given recent­ly on the royal estate in Scotland, Queen Mar}’ danced twelve of the fourteen reels, polkas, and Circas­sian circles with gardeners, foot­men and chefs
THISTLE
At Last Some Enlightenment
Many complaints were voiced as regards the delivery of last year-’s Thistle. Apparently, time was lost in gathering the material, which, of course, held up the whole line. Consequently, the bo^k was not issued until after graduation which was too late to permit the stu- di .its to have them before leaving school.We, of course, realize that the Thistle can not be finished in time tov distribute it among the night students before the clpse of the term, but, precaution should be exercised by those responsible to insure prompt delivery by mail in cases where the men are unable to call for them.
Those of you who subscribed last year and did not receive your copy up to the present time are requested to have a little more patience (like Job), and as soon as the flurry of registration has passed, arrangements will be made to enable you to get your copy at the earliest possible date.
As a geeral thing a complex is regarded as a bad thing. One who thinks himself or his work inferior to others, or to his work, begins 
the race with a heavy handicap. One who thinks himself or his work superior to all others of his work, is likely to encounter some dangerous head-on collisions.People will do themselves and their friends distinct service if they avoid both forms of complexes. If 
you have a vocation which de­velops an inferiority complex, change it as soon as you can. If one must have a complex, it is bet­ter to hav’e the superiority com­
plex, because one will get enough bumps to hold one in one’s place, but when the complex is an in­feriority one, it, is most unfortu­nate.. It discourages the spirit of service. It chokes idealism. It ! cripples education. It contravenes 
| 'he public welfare. It halts prog­ress. It is Mrong.
The Collegiate Imps
Now Under the Direction and Management of
HAROLD II. HUNTER
Make your dates early for Rushing Dances, Formats, etc. 
Any combination desired. Let us bid on your next party.
624 CLYDE STREETMAYFLOWER 8441
Slcrip, tucccuor to 
ink, makes all pent 
write better, and 
_ the Lifetime pen 
write best.'
Wisdom
About the most foolish expenditure a college man 
ever makes is to buy a cheap fountain pen. Sheer 
waste! Lifetime0 is the college man’s pen because 
it is dependable always. LIGHTEST touch starts its 
ready ink flow, yet three clear carbons can be 
made at one writing, due to its remarkable nib. 
And it's guaranteed unconditionally for a life­
time! Faultless service—and no repair charges, 
ever. It boasts a beauty as thrilling as its perfect 
performance. And the Titan pencil offers like 
reasons for the preference of every wise buyer. 
"Lifetime” pen, $8.75 Lady "Lifetime”, $7.50 Other» lower 
'‘Lifetime” Titan oversize pencil to match, $4.25 
At better stores everywhere
Identify the Ufethvu pen by thit u/hitcdot

---------------------------------------------------

4THE CARNEGIE TARTANTUESDAY, OCTOBER 9. 1928
Theta Tau Holds Meeting to 
Plan Program for This Year
The first meeting of Theta Tau, national professional engineering frternity, was held Thursday eve­ning, October 4, in Room 53, En­gineering Hall. It was decided that meetings of the fraternity should be held Wednesday eve­nings of alternate weeks at 7:30 in Professor Daniel's 'office, Room 53, Engineering Hall. The meet­ings will be, alternately, techni­cal-social meetings and business meetings. Prominent outside speak­ers will address the fraternity on .subjects of interest at technical meeting's. These addresses will be followed by refreshments. The other meeting of the month will be a strictly business meeting.George M. Wile was elected vice president to succeed James Kucs- ter, who did not return to school. Wile is a Senior Civil, a member of the Sigma Nu social fraternity, and Tau Beta.Pi. scholastic honor­ary fraternity. He is also a mem­ber of the tennis squad.Mention was made of the fact that former Professor Steidle, an hofiorary member of the Carnegie chapter of Theta Tau, is now head of the Department of Mining, at 
Penn State.Refreshments were served fol­lowing the meeting.
NORTHWESTERNUNIVERSITY
Sophs Start Plebes On 
Right Road To Education
The female of the species sleeps less and studies • more than the male, according to statistics- com­piled at Northwestern University. These figures showed that the co-ed spends about* a third of a day on social activities of one kind 
o: another, including telephoning, accepting or rejecting dates, at­tending to correspondence, recrea­
tion and talking.The .campus cd spends an equal amount of time in similar activi­
ties.Keeping up Northwestern’s repu­
tation for feminine beauty takes up about two hours a day of the co­ed’s time. But the students there consider this time well spent in considering the results that the 
girls obtain. She sleeps a little over a third of the 24 hours. The compilation showed that the co-eds studied about one-fourth of the day, departing to the reader that the members of the weaker sex arc not as frivolous and plastic ageish as they arc popularly supposed to 
be.
Last Friday the Plebes received their first lecture in “The Life of a Plebe.'’ The title or reference to this course can not be found in the college’s curriculum; it, is a course given gratis to all fresh­men through the generosity of the sophomores. The Jirst lecture was in the form of a trial which was screened by Kincogram News Reel camera man who came especially to our campus to show the world what kind of broad education the sophomores give to the poor, un­educated plebes. The pictures of 
last Friday's trial will be shown in Pittsburgh this week and whcrc- ever Kincogram News Reels arc 
shown. The scenes that were taken represent the characteristic 
method in which the plebes become oriented into the college. Ini. a few sccncs that will be shown, the world will see how kind the sophomores arc and how they feed the poor plebds who arc perhaps away from their mothers for the 
first time and do not know how tc cat properly, or how to respect the upperclassmen. A few plebes were shown how to propose- to girls and they seemed to learn readily the few fundamentals, which proves that sophomores arc very good teachers. Aesthetic dancing was also given, and the dancing of plebes compared very favorably to the dances that arc done on the present stage. During the tak­ing of pictures one plebe became hungry and one of the plebes liad to get a bottle with which he gave the first plebe the proper nourish­ment. All plebes who regret that they were not present at the tak­ing of. pictures and missed the first lecture will be enabled to take a supplementary lecture this coming 
Thursday.
Oberlin.—Oberlin college has pur­chased several hundred acres of land on the Vermilion River, a few miles north - of here, which is to be used exclusively for a hunting, fishing and camping grounds for t!. - male students of the college.The purchase of the land fol­lowed on the heels of a movement started here several years a' o and brought to a head just recently, to repudiate the traditional rumor that Oberlin is a "women’s col­
lege.”The men of the college had com­plained that they had insufficient men’s life, and the purchase of the tract was, the answer of the college trustees to the complaint.
Carn regri 
in ’snRgv
At the big games this year there’s one scorc tluit’seertnin. Alligators 
arc always ’way ahead.'Whether you select the 
all-wool lined Aviation model or the Regulation College Slickcr, when it bears the Alligator.label you can count on correct style, famous Alligator fahr iùcs and absolute waterproof protec­tion. Alligators nro sold only at the best stores from $7.50 to $25.00. See the new Alligator Aviation model at $10.00. Tho AJligntor Company, St. Louis, Mo.
ALLIGATOR
TRADG-MARK RRO. U. !!. PAV. OiV.
For Sale at
Book StoreAdministration Bldg.
what kind cfojou mite?
TU the profs find it 
hard to read your hiero­
glyphics, they really can’t 
be blamed if they give you 
lower marks than you may 
think you deserve.'
Take no chances. Get a 
Remington Portable and 
let it do your writing for 
you. It will speed up your 
writing and the full legi­
bility and neatness of type- 
Let us explain to you
written work cannot fail 
to help your grades. 
Remington Portable—the 
recognized leader in sales 
and popularity — is the 
smallest, lightest, most 
compact and most de­
pendable portable with 
standard keyboard. Car­
rying case only 4 inches 
high. Weighs 814 pounds, 
net.
our easy payment terms.
Remington
Portable
Institute of Technology 
Administration Bldg.
Remington Rand Business Service, Inc., 
Bessemer Bid?., 102 Sixth Street, Pittsburgh, Pa-
“The Child in Primitive Society” is Title 
of Latest Book by Dr. Nathan Miller
PLAN TO RELEASE 1929THISTLE ABOUT MAY 1
Bound in an attractive red color by Kegan Paul, London publishers, and also issued by Brcntano’s of New York, Dr. Nathan Miller’s book, "The Child in Primitive Society,” makes its appearance in the field qf educational psychol­
ogy.Dr. Miller is Assistant Professor in the Department of Sociology at Carnegie Tech. He has been work­ing on this book for several years and revised' it for publication this spring.Dr. Miller, in his introduction, says that the child today is edu­cated at the expense of his own individuality, to preserve, the in­stitutions and opinions of his fath­ers. He then proceeds to show the origin of customs which have led to the use of the child for the good of the adult, instead of to the dedication of the child to his own self-expression.He begins with a chapter, “Prim­itive Notions of the Child,” in which Jic discusscs , the moves among primitive tribes of regard­ing the new-born child simply as another living thing, like any ani­mal.
The chapter on "The Burden of Children” describes the efforts of tribes to limit the number of chil­dren by abortion, infanticide or birth-control. The "Desire for Children" shows, in the main,’that children were wanted, for the most part, because they were an eco­nomic" asset. Children were "a needful aid in the struggle, not usually for life itself, but that measure of worth and social promi­nence which is based .011 the pos­session of a superior abundance of material goods.” "The . Name’' and "Preliminary Orientation of the Child” discuss the early 'efforts of parents to tie the child to themselves and to their, customs.
"Infancy and Childhood” is con­
cerned with treatment of the chil­
dren in its earlier years, when it is watched carcfully and its pro­gress noted. "At a very early age the child is put into the harness. Life is a struggle against great odds—and the child must there­fore carry on for himself.”
Dr. Miller takes primitive edu­cation, in the .forms of- imitation and suggestion, training the child, and the initiation into maturity, which lie discusscs in great detail, giving specific examples from various tribal sources.- 
After a discussion of inheritance and succession, and social forces, Dr. Miller says: "In many waysthe child and the youth is still ex­posed to the primitive view that he is the perpetuating .organ of this institutional myth or that anti­quated cult. And it is by inculcat­ing a conforming allegiance that these aims, half-understood even by the orthodox educationalists’ themselves, can be securcd. Inthe light of reason, at least, it is time that this pressure making for conformity and perpetuation ofoutworn symbols should be re­placed by a desire to allow the child to express himself and perpet­uate himself by the development of his individuality. Education is only a means to an end. In the past it has been used more or less consciously as the vehicle bywhich the elders or the privileged have perpetuated their hold through conventional fictions. Perhaps it 
Avill be used in the future as an instrument by means of which the child may cnrich the culture of his age by the simultaneous develop­ment of his own life as well.”The volume is well annotated and indexed. It may be securcd at all booksellers.
Radical New College 
System Started At 
Florida Institution
Definite Classes, Home Work, Quizes Abolished In Dr. Holt’s Scheme
If there is hope for an intellectual renaissance in the United States, one of its most promising signs is the zeal with which the college world is engaged in self-criticism. It is a poor college that is not try­ing, if very feebly, to follow some such trail as those blazed by Wil­son at Princeton, Meiklejohn at Amherst and Wisconsin, Aydelottc at Swarthmorc, Morgan at Antioch, and Hamilton at Robert Brookings. The more venturesome of the many experimenters are not only hoping to reorganize the curricu­lum but arc also seeking to break through the routine of the time- honored lccturc-and-quiz methods of instruction. None perhaps has broken so completely with class­room tradition in this respect as has Rollins College at Winter Park, Florida, under the leadership of Hamilton Holt.
Briefly, Dr. Iiol.t proposed _ to banish * the lecture and recitation wholly from the campus, _ as the normal methods of instruction. He proposed to provide each depart­ment and instructor with a labo­ratory or workshop, equipped with the tools, books, and conveniences for study. Here it was hoped that students ’ and teachers would work together, the former learning es­pecially from the contagion of common intellectual undertakings. It was a thoroughgoing application to the college\field of what is fre­quently called the; "project-method” in discussions of secondary edu­cation.
"We would have continuous and intimate association of professors and students in the • working period of the day,” declared President Holt. "Every student should spend the entire morning in intellectual work, two hours of the afternoon in field work, and perhaps ^n .hour or an hour and a half in the evening in receptive work (and play.”In working out Dr. Holt’s ideals, several modifications were made at Rollins. The financial condition <pf the college made «it impossible to put the plant in. ideal shape for the effective working of the plan in all its aspects. Instructors of national prestige entered their rooms at .the inauguration of the experiment two years ago to find some of them without a scrap of furniture. The floor and window- ledges were for a few weeks a very real equivalent of Mark Hop- kin’s hypothetical log. *Yet this' very lack of standardized equip­ment has helped to destroy the obstacles to natural, human con­tacts between students and instruc­tors. And instruction has come ¿t Rollins to be a matter of confer­ence, suggestion, and guidance, with the student placed increasingly upon his own initiative and held responsible for results.Thus the student enrolling in chemistry may be handed a text and a book of exercises. “Here is your year’s work; go to it,” says the professor in effect. “When you strike a snag, come into the office for a talk. When you are ready for a quiz, it will be ready for you.” In a literature course, discussion by the Socratic method is the principal feature of the class period. One professor delivers abrief lecture embodying original material at each meeting of the class, and devotes the remainder of the period to individual confer­ences. Another divides his . class into sections for the purpose of making group reports to the class as a whole upon principal topics of discussion. In one history class recently the instructor devoted aportion of the period to individual conferences upon essays previously written, while the bulk of the class engaged in the preparation of an­other set of papers, with the aid of the departmental library. Pres­ently half a dozen students were discovered on the veranda, heatedly arguing the reasons for the fall ofRome. The instructor joined thegroup, and ultimately the discus­sion attracted the attention of the
The 1929 Thistle board is com­pleting arrangements for this year's edition of the book. The engrav­ing contract has been let to the Canton Engraving and, Electrotype Company who did such excellent art work on last year’s edition. Edward Eberman and Mid. Young, graduates of the Printing and* Dec­orating Department, and Ralph Hitchcock, a senior in the depart: mcnt, are employed by the Canton company and they will, no doubt, do much of the art work.Tom Brown, editor of the This­tle, plans to have the book ready for distribution by May 1. To as­sure success of his plans, all sub­scriptions should be in as soon as possible. The subscription price is $4.50, of which $2 is paid at the time of subscribing and the bal­ance on delivery. After February 20, the price^ will be raised to $5.The letting of the contracts for printing and photography as well as several new appointments arc expected to be announced soon.
Carnegie Students Speak at 
A.S.C.E. Meeting Wednesday
I Music Notes
entire class. In another course the instructor lectures informally when the students ddcidc ttyat they need encouragement or enlighten­ment with respect to a complicated situation. In the education depart­ment, customarily the stronghold of aridity and 'insipidity, the instruc­tor has been approaching problems of educational psychology by>way of Plato and Dante’s “Inferno.”Whatever Dr. Holt has started at Rollins, it is not a cut-and.-d.ncd system. .He has given able in­structors who were dissatisfied with older methods an opportunity to experiment with more direct means of promoting the intellec­tual and aesthetic development of their students. And the admitted results have encouraged the in­definite continuance of the expcrir mcnt."What do you do when vyour class meets?” I have been asked by anxious colleagues at other in­stitutions. This is the precise dif­
ference between Rollins and the average college. The class does not meet as such. Individuals come to the department room for reading and research, to make writ­ten or oral report, for conference with the instructor, to attend an announced discussion or lecture. If they do not come they must be 'accounted for. But they are self­starters. The students decide for themselves how they will spend their time, unless they are defi­cient. When at rare intervals the instructor assumes, the role of taskmaster, the event is impressive for its novelty. It is not the duty of studcnts'to run if the instructor does not put in an appearance within ten minutes of the begin­ning of the period. They have their work cut out for them; and it is their loss if they do not do it when it can be best performed.It was not easy at the outset to bring students and teachers to realize the full implications of this sweeping break with time-honored college teaching methods. To as­sist the conference idea in making its way upon the. campus, a depar­ture was instituted in the length of class periods. Instead of^ meet­ing for three, one-hour periods a week, classes, were scheduled for the same number of periods, two hours in length, for the same credit. It was assumed that col­lege students, who are generally supposed • to study two hours in preparation for every hour spent in class, actually spend only one hour or less in preparation. Hence it was proposed that' students should perform all of their required activities in connection with any course during the two hours sched­uled for contact with their instruc-' tors in the classroom, If they wished to excel, or to master their courses more rapidly than their fellows, they might do so after school hours-, in their rooms of elsewhere. The college day, how­ever, was divided into three such 
conference periods, which, together with a period for athletics in the afternoon, were expected to j place the required activities of the school upon an "eight-hour business day.”It must be said that this at­tempted analogy between college education and the New York busi­ness office has not been free from difficulties. Experienced educators have viewed it at all1 times with distrust, as based upon erroneous premises. The problems of atten­tion involved have been solved at times at the expense of content in the courses. The organization of college work about thç, average performance of the average stun dent as a standard is out of line with contemporary trends in pro­gressive education. Moreover, the element of supervised study seem­ingly involved in the eight-hour day principle is at war with the conference ideal itself. And as the college attracts to it, as it is doing, the type of student best able to become master of his own educa­tion, this particular mechanism is certain to undergo considerable modification. It has already been abandoned in advanced courses, which arc Being run along semi­nar or autonomous lines. And in practice it is safe to say that there is not a student on the campus who actually performs all of his required college work, not to say all that, he is moved to do. within the strict, and exclusive limits of •(Continued on Page 5)
At the regular meeting of the Carnegie chapter of -the American Society of Engineers, Octobcr 3. 
Don PI. Barr, Henry J. Bell, and Lester Oclschlager, all students in the Civil Engineering coursc, gave accounts of their summer experi­ence gained in positions connected 
with the field of Civil Engineering.Mr. Barr, whose work with the g vernmeht this summer brought him into touch with United States locks and dams on the Allegheny River, discusscd surveying, con­crete testing, and. sand and gravel inspection.Mr. Bell, holding the position of timekeeper with the' Dravo Con­struction. Company, impressed upon his listeners the inaccuracy of the title timekeeper when he informed them that his duties included those of material checker, field-day mas­ter, assistant to the engineer, cost accounting , and distribution,, and general officc man. Becausc of the varied nature of his work, Mr. Bell was. able to discuss from many angles the construction of one of tl-ft new Allegheny River dams.Mr. Oelschlagcr, as Borough En ginccr of the Borough of Canoris- burg with the Hershol Company, learned at first hand many facts about surveying. He discussed the subdividing of land into small par­cels, the surveying.of routes in the establishment of. street ccnter litics^ the calculating of earthwork and taking of Cross-sections for street excavation, the making of under­ground surveys in connection with mines, and the calculation of the 
volumes removed.The seminar class meets every Wednesday, and after the business of, the organization has been dis­posed of, lectures on different phases of engineering work arc given by students or by prominent engineers.
Carnegie Alumna Gives 
Recital At Parkersburg
A recital of interest to Carnegie students is that given by Josephine M-Grail in the High School audi­torium at Parkersburg, W. Va.. on Octobcy the third.Miss- McGrail, a graduate of the Voice Department of our School of Music, is now a member of the music faculty of Duqucsnc Univer­sity. In addition to her teaching she expects to devote a portion of her time this .season to concert work.Miss McGrail was ably assisted and accompanied by Matthew Frey in the program which follows:ID’ Astorga (1681-1736)—Vo’ cer- cando in qucste v^lli.Handel—Aria di Polosscna, "Som- mi Dei” (Radamisto).IIChausson—Lc temps dcs lilas.Dalcrozc—L’oi'seau bleu.HI -Mozart—Recitativo ed aria, "Non mi dir,” (Don Giovanni).IVMozart—Fantasia in D minor.Chopin—Etude, Opus^ 25, No. 12.Rachmaninoff—Polichinellc.Mr. Frey.V .Franz—Im Herbst.Strauss—Wie' sollten wir gcheim sic halten.Strauss—Ich trage mcine Minn€.,VIMartin Sliaw—Summer.Deems Taylor—May-Day Carol.Martin Shaw—Hefflc Cuckoo Fair.Arnold Bax—The White Peace.
By Sara E.’WondersThe Art Society announces the engagement of Ifor Thomas, Welsh tenor, and Kathryn Mcislc for the ¿pening concert, Octobcr 19.This season’s artists, presented by the Art Society, include the Flonzoley Quartet; Paul Kockon- ski, violinist; Michael Bolincr, bari­tone .of the Metropolitan Grand Opera, and Staatsopcr, Berlin; Jos­ef Lhcvinnc, pianist, and Elizabeth Rethberg, soprano.
The first concert of the Pitts­burgh Symphony will take place on October 28 with Eugene Goosscns conducting and Cyrena Van Gor- day as soloist; Efrem Zimbalist and Elias Brceskin will be the at­tractions for the second ’ concert, followed by Eugene Gossens and Charlotte Ryan for the third on February 3, and then Emil Obcr- lioffer, famous, Hollywood Bowl conductor, and Alexander Brailow- sky, April 7.
Orchestras In addition to two visits of Wil­helm Mergelberg, conductor of the New York Philharmonic Orchestra, the Pittsburgh Orchestra associa­tion has announced a third visit of the orchestra under the leader­ship of Arturo Toscanini. In all, Pittsburgh is to have six concerts by this orchestra, for each visit both an evening and a matinee concert will be given.The Boston Symphony orchestra under Serge Koussevitzky, will open the symphony season on No­vember 2 and 3. - The Chicago orchestra, under Frederick Stock, will 'give a con- ccrt Monday, January 28.The Cleveland orchestra,' with 
Nikolai Sokoloff, conductor, and the Minneapolis orchestra, with Henri Vcrbrugghcn, conductor, will return this- season.
Bortz Concerts James R. J3ortz, manager of the De Luxe concerts, will present several new artists in his seriesthis season at Carnegie MusicHall. Harold Bauer and Ossip Gabrilowitsch will give a duo piano recital Thursday evening, Octobcr 25. The second conccrtis the Adolph Bolin Ballet Monday evening, November 12, presenting 
a unique program of both classic and foreign dances.The third event presents Mme. Maria Olszcwska, leading contral­to of the Vienna State Opera Com­pany, Friday, Dcccmbcr 14. Tos- clia Seidel, violinist, will give the fourth conccrt. The Revellers, a foremost singing organization of 
the day, will present the fifth con­ccrt.Becgle Concerts The May Becgle conccrts will open at »Syria Mosque this season with, a concert by Mme. Louise Homer, contralto, and her daugh­ter, Louise Homcr-Stires,-Wednes­day,- Octobcr 24. Other celebrities in this course of eight events in­clude Josef -Hofman, pianist; Doris Niles and Spanish ballet, with sym­phony orchestra; Rosa Raisa and Giacomo Rimini, soprano and bari­tone of the Chicago Grand Opera; Benjamin Gigli, Metropolitan ten-
-SYMPHONY ORCHESTRA TO 
START PRACTICE SUNDAY
TEXAS UNIVERSITY OXFORD ETIQUETTE
According to English newspapers Oxford University women students are committing shocking breaches of etiquette, by talking on the street to Oxford men students. ¦This notice should discourage American women from studying at Oxford. For surely few American women could so revolutionize their lives as to abstain from talking on the streets to their gentlemen friends.The regulation against talking to men on the streets is, of course, manifestly absurd. It is the sur­vival of a custom which was like­ly a necessary measure of pro­
tection in earlier, rougher days. Now that the need has disappeared, the custom should follow. For now university men—though there arc 
specimens to the contrary—general­ly are gentlemen.
Perhaps it is just as well that women arc not eligible to become P.hodos Scholars. For they \vould be miserable on the streets could they not converse with handsome young Englishmen. — S. M. U. 
Campus.
or; Albert Spalding, violinist; Sig­rid Oncgrin, contralto, and Rosa Ponselle, Metropolitan Opera sop­rano.
Students and faculty members of the Music Department rtnd students and faculty, members of other de­partments who arc musically in­clined are invited to join the sym­phony orchestra. Applicants 'will be admitted after successful try­outs. Rehearsals will be held twice :i week, on Sunday at 2:30 and on Thursday at 7, in room 460 in- the Arts building.
Under the leadership of Pro­fessor Victor O’Brien, the organi­zation has an intensive program. Many conccrts were given last year, one of which was broadcast over the radio. Conccrts of a simi­lar nature will be given this year. The orchestra has taken part in various activities, for instance,' fur­nishing music for Carnegie Day and acting as accompanists in the Senior Musicalc.
Pete Stauffer Tells of 
Experience's In Germ!
DORMS TO GIVE DANCEAND RECEPTION ON OCT. 12
A Dance and Reception is to be given on Friday, Octobcr 12, from 9 to 12, by the 'combined Carnegie Dorms. The dance is .to be held in the Carnegie Union and the Faculty Club Room has been se­cured to accommodatc the 'danccrs between numbers.This is an annual dance and re­ception which takes the placc of the “open house’’ formerly held ort some Sunday afternoon early in the fall.The main purpose of the dance is to give the new men in the dor­mitories a better chance to bc- comc acquainted socially on the campus. Every one attending is sure of a good time, and new ac­quaintance. Excellent dance music will be furnished for the evening by Ralph Kruck’s T artans.The patrons and patronesses for the dance arc: Dean A. W. Tar-beil, Dean Mary Watson Green, 
Professor. and Mrs. Wertz, Profes­sor and Mrs. Kirk Patrick and Miss Helm.
Pete Stauffer, president of Student Council, brings back word. that Germany is really s< country. Pete spent the grc; part of the summer there a: guest of the Carl. Schurz V ingung, and his observations quite interesting.Stauffer and the other mcmb of his party, five girls and fo men from various American ut versitics, visited all the importa and interesting places .in German Among the places which tht found especially attractive we; Berlin, Heidelberg University, ar the famous Black Forest.The party sailed June 30 fi Hamburg and spent six weeks , Germany. Nine days were spcr, in Berlin, during which time th> members of the party were qua* tcrcd in separate ’ private house: Pete refused to comment on tli long stay in the capital. Pcrhap the beer gardens had somethin to do with his refusal. Amonj the other cities visited were Mun ich, Nurcmburg, Cologne, Drcsdcii and Bremen. The party rcachct home September 5, after accom­plishing their purpose of fostering a better relationship between Ger­many arid the United States.
New York.—A thrcc-ycar coursc in practical aviation will be offered by the evening engineering division 
and the extension scrvicc at New York University -this year.
University Restaurant
OPEN DAY AND NIGHT 
Home Cooking 
4605 Forbes St., Near Craig
Sell Christmas Cards
Herq is your clmncc to earn bis money in spare time. No experience 
nccessnry. selling newest thing in per­sonalized Christmas enrds.- Available 
for the first time. Assortment of 20 different designed cards, all sleet die 
engraved with choicc of greeting and Tinme plates engraved to mntch. Box of 20 enrds retails for $2.2o, of which 7fic is yours. Eli$y to sell from our beau­
tiful selling display furnished free. 
Writo today.
Personal Stationery Corp.
OF N. Y.Dept. C-92 503 Fifth AvenueNEW YORK CITY
Pipe Convert 
Ends Agonizing 
Tobacco Hunt
New York, N. Y._ June 30,1926 Larus & Bro. Co.Richmond, Va.Gentlemen:
I started smoking on cigarettes, bun after meeting a young lady for whom men who smoked pipes had a greater charm, I promptly switched to one.Then my agony began. I tried one brand of tobacco after another, al­ways working on the theory that the more you paid for tobacco, the better it would be.I tried imported special mixtures. I paid as much as fifty cents an ounce. All to no avail.Then came the day I tried Edge- worth. It was at a ball game. I had run short of tho certain brand I was smoking, and a casual acquaintance offered 'me a pipeful from his pouch.Imagine my delight when after the first few puffs I did not feel the old. familiar bite. I puffed on, inhaling the delightful aroma, and oh, boy! Itwaa sweet right down to the bottom. INothing has separated me from my pipe, or my pipe from Edgeworth, since then.Yours very truly, (signed) David Freedman, Jr.Edgewortk
Extra High Grade i
Smoking Tobacco
Dartmouth. — Dartmouth collège has more facultv members listed in the 1928-29 '“Who’s Who in America” than any other cduca- tional_ institution of college rank and size in the country.Oberlin' collcgc is second in num­ber of names in the book, with Swarthmorc,. Smith, Amherst and Pomona colleges trailing close be­hind.
with their feet on the ground
M
EN of vision, yes. But don’tover- 
look the fact that those old Roman 
road builders and empire builders kept 
their feet firmly fixed on the ground. 
They faced the facts squarely. They 
were, demons for detail. They were the 
world’s first great organizers.
Pioneering in the telephone industry 
is like that. It is a work of vision and of
' leadership into new fields. But back of 
it all must be the ability to organize men, 
money, material and machines.
The telephone executive must coor­
dinate his machine before he can run it. 
He must understand the possibilities in 
his organization before he can lead it. 
That done, his opportunity is empire- 
wide, vision-broad and ambition-deep.
BELL SYSTEM
-jf nation-wide system of 18,500,000 inter-connecting !:!cphones
“OUR PIONEERING WORK HAS JUST BEGUN"

---------------------------------------------------

TUESDAY, OCTOBER i, 1928.THE CARNEtíiií, jYqj Yu
TO PLAY AT FOOTBALL DANCEPROF. WORK TO TALK 
_ AT FIRST A. I.E. E. MEETINGCarnegie Aviation Club Will 
Have One Delegate at Yale 
Conference on Aeronautics
In the village oí Tusca tot a, there is no public school be of the 50 inhabitants, none an than 20 years of age.-• The first meeting of the Car­negie Student branch of the A. I. E. E. will be held Wednesday evening, Octobcr 10; in Room 11, Machinery Halj. The primary pur- i pose of this meeting is to make the students and faculty of Elec­trical Engineering acquainted with each other and to elect class rep­resentatives and appoint standing committees for the year. Profes­sors Work and Dennisson, both of I he Electrical Department, will ad­dress the members on the pur­poses and the work of the A. I. E. E. The coming year’s policy 
FHYNT be outlined by G. M. Cooper, Chairman of the student branch. All new electrical students are asked to be present. Officers of the A. I. E. E. for the present year arc G. M. Cooper, chairman; A1. G. Scibol, vice chairman; H. G. Fcrick, secretary; O. V. Mitch­ell, treasurer.
Membership in the Aviation Club j is still open to all those interested in aviation. The dues arc $1.50 for initiation which includes the purchase cli the pin. Twenty-five cents is the dues at each meeting. There are two meetings every i'.nth devoted to lectures, motor displays, technical and non-tcehnical discussions and addresses by men prominent in aviation.The prog-am for t'..c year’s ac­tivity includes the appearance of Air. Stout, president of the Metal Aircraft Corporation of Detroit. The opinions of such an important man will be significant in molding the course and policies of the A.-ia- f . Club. Also, the existence of local flying fields and air routes will be taken advantage of by visits and by referring, to them for information and statistics.
i u number of new members were welcomed to the club at the last meeting.The next meeting is Octobcr 16, ai.~ will be the farewell meeting to our representative to the con­ference at Yale.
Meeting Octobcr 19 and 20 to In­
form Members of Collegiate 
Progress in Air Activities
Carnegie, for the first time, is to be represented by H. Wilkoff, president of the Aviation ^Club at­ibe annual Intercollegiate Aero­nautical Conference which is to be held at Yale on Octobcr 19 and 20, and at which prominent avia­tors and authorities on air trans­portation will speak on various as­pects of collegiate aviation. Har­vard, Yale, Massachusetts Institute of Technology, University of Penn­sylvania, University of Southern California, University of Michigan and New York University arc amone the schools to be repre­sen tea.This meeting, significant for its proposal lo stimulate interest and activity in aviation among all im­portant colleges and universities, will serve as a direct means of acquainting the institutions repre­sented with the progress of colle­giate aeronautics, It will afford Carnegie an opportunity to be­come acquainted with current ac­tivities in the rapidly growing aviation world.The Problem of Flight Instruc­tion, Research and Equipment as Ground School Activities, and In­tercollegiate Air Racing are impor­tant among the topics scheduled. The addresses will be supplement­ed by reports of the various rep­resentatives concerning aeronautics at their respective colleges. This general exchange of ideas is in­tended to establish a bond of re­lationship that will mutually bene­fit all institutions concerned.Intercollegiate air racing in­volves the addition of a new sport to the list of competitive college activities. An air race between Carnegie and Pitt has been sug­gested as a possible future event. Carnegie received a request to compete in the air races at the University of Southern California last year, but acceptance was im­possible, because of, the lack of a plane. There is reason to believe, however, that if another request is received this year it will be ac­cepted.Wilkoff will bring back with him complete reports from the confer­ence, which will be used to assist the Aviation Club in its work and to inform Carnegie students of the progress of flying clubs in other schools.
COLLEGIATE IMPS
M.M.C.C. Sophomore Class 
Gives An Informal Tea
From 4 to 5 last Friday, the Sophomore class of Margaret Morrison held an informal get-to­gether tea in the faculty parlors in Margaret Morrison. A short welcome speech was given by the acting president of the class, Lu- cillc Ross. Dancing was the di­version v of the afternoon. The only guests were Miss Green, Dean of Women, Miss Breed, Di-. rector of Margaret. Morrison, and Miss Ware, the class sponsor. Tea was served from 4:30 to 5:30 with Miss Breed- and Miss 'Green presiding at the table. The com­mittee in charge* was Grace Borg- crding, chairman, Elizabeth Steele, Geraldine Beals, Doris Mather and Eleanor Lemon.
Reception Night at Churches 
Will Be on Thursday, Oct. 11Washburn Univ.—Local sorority sisters are going about the campus of Washburn university with their noses tilted just a trifle in the air since it as announced that at the end of the second. semester of last year the lowest sorority grade average • was nearly three points higher than the highest fraternity grade average.
Annual Church Reception Night 
is to be held this Thursday, Octo­
ber 11, at 8 P. M. Every student 
of Carnegie ípcli, University of 
Pittsburgh, Duquesnc University, Pennsylvania College for Women, and Teachers’ Training School is invited to attend the reception given by the church of which he is a member.
These receptions, all of which arc informal, promise to provide interesting entertainment, as well as refreshments during the- course of the evening. All students,' especially freshmen and transferred students, are urged to attend these church receptions, as they offer an excellent opportunity to become acquainted with students not only from Carnegie but from the other Pittsburgh colleges as well. In past years these open nights held by 'the various churches of the city, have been remarkably suc­cessful and all who have attended them have made many new friends._ Churches which: will hold recep­tions on Octobcr 12 are: TheBaptist, First Baptist Church, cor­ner Bayard and Bellefield Ave­nues; the Episcopal, Church of Ascension, corner Ellsworth and Neville Avenues; the Methodist Episcopal, Christ Methodist Epis­copal Church, corner Center and Liberty Avenues; the Presbyterian, Bellefield Presbyterian Chur ch, corncr. Fifth and Bellefield Ave­nues; Reformed, Grace Reformed Church, corner Dithridge and Bay­ard Streets; the Unitarian, First Unitarian Church, corner More- wood and Ellsworth Avenues; United Presbyterian, United Pres­byterian Church, corncr Fifth and Thackcray Avenues.1 Other receptions include: Roman Catholic, which will be at Du- quesne . Council House,. Bellefield arid Fifth Avenues on October 12; Lutheran, First Lutheran Church, Grant Street, which comes on Oc­tober 19, and which will be fol­lowed by a reception- to be given ¡ for the East End group. Dates! for the Christian Church recep­tions will be announced later.
Lafayette.—Lafayette college has joined the growing ranks of those American educational institutions which have placed restrictions on the use of motor vehicles by un­dergraduates.Henceforth every Lafayette stu- dci.t who wishes to drive an auto­mobile while attending college must register with the dean, who will then write for written permis­sion from the student’s parents.
For generations the red. grouse has brought a host o 
sportsmen to the moors, whose zest jor enjoymen 
is as keen as their eyesight. Traditionally t/f 
BBB GEN RALS briar pipe has been taken alon 
as a loved companion.
3AOOPLSB over do'gs is the test form of sport—says the re? 
dog lover. He is the very sort who would never think of settir 
out for a day on the moors without his BBB DRS 912E brk 
in his jacket pocket—or more likely, between his teeth.
For generations these extra; fine pipes have stood as th 
ultimate in smoking pleasure. Age-mellowed briar rootS- 
meticulously selected, expertly fashioned into distinctiv 
shapes, individually baked by the old exclusive BBB proc 
ess, beautifully finished. And you have the traditional mel 
lowness, sweetness and coolness so characteristic of ever; 
BBB DRS 912EN
These fine briar pipes may be had in either the smootl 
finish or in the sandblasted ripple finish, all marked with a 
red diamond on the stem. Five dollars the pipe. Wm. Demuth 
& Co., New York and London. Established 1862.
Radical New College
(Continued from Page 4)
Leadership in 
Catering Values
As caterers our leadership 
has long been acknowl­
edged.
We cater affairs correctly 
and keep costs within a 
prescribed limit.
Two of many reasons for 
our continued leadership.
¿Menus and estimates 
submitted without obligation. 
Phone us for suggestions.
Weddings a Specialty
the officc-workers’ day. The con­ference idea will triumph over the time-clock as well as over the lock-step.It is particularly with reference to the curriculum, however, that the limited number of periods pro­vided in the schedule has proved embarrassing. Because of it the college has thus far done little toward wrestling with the great problem of what to teach, -which Dr. Mciklejohn has so adventur­ously undertaken at Wisconsin. In this respect, as in -many others, Rollins stands so far in the same shoes as dozens of her compeers. The college has its unsolved ques­tions of admission, of discipline, of student activities, of fraternities, of academic tenure, of collegiate self-government; . Many of these questions are now being studied at the initiative of a group . of the faculty of the collcge. Rollins boasts for president a man who,' while campaigning for endowment, indorses the doctrinc of evolution in Florida and public ownership in New York City. What college has better right to be proud of its liberalism? Who can doubt that it will be the questing spirit of Socrates, rather, than the dog­matism of M^rk Hopkins which will sit at the end of the Rollins log?—The Nation.
SORORITY TEA WILL OPE1Î WOMEN'S RUSHING SEASON
On Friday, October 12, at 4:30, the Inter-Sororit3r Council will of­ficially open the 1928 rushing sea­son with a tea in the Exhibition' Room in the College of Fine Arts. Plans for the tea are in charge of Catherine Dickey,, social chairman, while Irene Tcdrow has been ap­pointed to arrange for entertain­ment at the tea.; All freshmen have been invited to attend the Inter-Sorority Tea which annually inaugurates the rushing • season.This year the period of sorority rushing which begins next Friday afternoon will last until midnight on Sunday, Octobcr 28. During this period of more than two weeks the sororities will give dances, dinners, ¦bridges, theater parties and various other social events which charac­terize rushing seasons.
Washington.—The number of in­stitutions forç, the higher education of the Negro race in the United States more than doubled, and en­rollments increased more than six­fold ‘during the past ten years, ac­cording to the report recently is­sued by the Bureau of Education of- the Interior Department;.i:i v.9).7, according to the report, chore were 31 Negro institutions iffering college work, while in 1927, of the 79 institutions included in the survey, there were 77 en­gaged in college work.The enrollments in the 31 insti­tutions ten years ago amounted to 2,123 Negro ¡students, as compared' with 13,680 attending institutions surveyed in 1917—an increase of 550 per cent.The annual income of the Negro universities and colleges in the United States also has gainqd at a rapid rate. In 1917 it totaled $2,283,000, while in 1927 the annual income was $8,560,000, or an in­crease of 275 per cent.
OWN
Evanston, 111.—An entire foot­ball team, with one left over as a substitute could be made up of the pairs of twins included in this year’s freshman class of the Lib­eral Arts college of Northwestern University, except that one of the pairs is composed of girls.The girl twins are Goldye and Sylvia Miller, of Chicago.The other pairs are Frank J. and Robert'E. Sorgg, 18, of Chica­go; John A. and Robert E. Graf, 21, of Chicago; Edward P. and Robert H. Taylor, 19,. of Kent, O.; Abe and Harry Steinberg, 18, of Pittsburgh, and Floyd and Har­old Eldridgc, 20, of Grand Rapids, Mich.
Lafayette.—He didn’t give his name, but he was a bear for pun­ishment.A prospective Yale freshman last week came around while the soph­omores, were putting the Lafayette collcge frosh through their "stuff,” and took his medicine with the rest in order, as lie said, to be prepared for what was coming at Yale.The Lafayette sophomores obliged him with full preparation. He is expected to recover in time to matriculate at Eli.
NORTHWESTERN UNIVERSITY 
Among the many means of earn­ing their tuition two students of the University of Wisconsin are working their way through collcge as professional-- escorts. Apprently some men are so desirable as es­corts that the ladies are willing to pay for their presence.—Springfield Student.Special Mice Students
Let’s Renew Old Friendship
We arc Ready at All Times to Solve Your Formal Problems. Rent a Tuxedo Suit and Accessories from us. 
LATEST STYLES ALL SIZES
Special Student Rates
Whittington Dress Suit Co.
6002-3-4 JENKINS ARCADE 
Day Phone Atlantic 9595 Night Phone Lafayette.4791-R
8AE
EeypTUN in ES1CNEE acNoWf 
a new-shade
¿Parker
JAZZLAND’S BRIGHTEST COMEDIANS
PLAYING DAILY
During Luncheon and Dinner 
In the Gold Room
A good shoe to ask for 
by nome-MONTROSSLUNCHEON
Table d’Hote 85c
Blue-aad-White, 
Non-Breakable Barrels in the 
Ultra Modem Style!
You have never held a sweeter pen— 
so light, so well balanced, so responsive, 
so easy and so surejn use.
We showed scores of different pens to 
hundreds of pen-users and asked,“ Which 
do you like best?” They picked this one.
You’ll do the same among pens at this 
price at any counter.
A Modem Blue-and-White
Of the latest modern design—trim, 
neat, beautiful in color—you’ll want it 
for its looks alone.
And after you have written with it, it 
will be yours for life. And only $3.50, too!
Try it at your nearest pen counter today.
Tub Parker Pen Comp,*.?«, Janesville, Wisconsin 
OJ71CE8 AND SUBSIDIARIES! NEW TOllK * BOSTON • CHICAGO 
ATLANTA • DALLAS ' SAN r*ANCl*CO 
TORONTO, CANADA * LONDON, INOLAKD
DINNER DANCING
6i00 P. M. to 8:00 P. M. Table d’Hote $1.50 
No cover charge
There is style 
in tlie prices, too !
No longer need the well- 
shod man pay the price of 
out-of-dnte production 
methods.
Inefficiency is outmoded.
Modern methods enable 
John Wards to lead in qual- \ I 
ity, in style, yet sell for 
dollars less!
Buy your next pair here | 
—at seven and' nine dollars! J
MBYSU ICSAYHS TD11SU :ANUS
IN THE ENGLISH ROOM 
Friday 9:00 P. M. to 1:00 A. M. Saturday 9:00 P. M. to 12:00 P. M.
SUNDAY DINNER CONCERT 5:30 P. M. to 9 :00 P. M,
In the Gold Room
SPECIAL TABLE d’HOTE DeLUXE $1.50
Parker 
'Blue-and-IVhite" Pencil, 
to match Pen, $3ICEP mLPP eOPEr
On display at
J. R. Scheib & Bros.
4515 Center Ave., Pittsburgh, Pa.
Management Eppley Hotels Co.
Three-FiftyINCOIVTORATSD *—» REC. U.J.TAT. O rr.
Stores in New York • 
Brooklyn • Newark and Philadelphia

---------------------------------------------------

CARNEGIE DIRECTORY AND 
SONG BOOK READY SOONFrosh Lose 20-0 Contest To 
Kiski Mentas After Hard 
Fighting Throughout Game
Annual Tennis Tournament 
Started at Local Courts
Plans Laid For This Year's 
Tankers Last WeekTENNIS TOURNAMENT SCHEDULE
The work of the tri-publications staff on the coming editions of the Carnegie Student Directory and l the Carnegie Song Book, is rapidly rounding into shape.There is to be a definite change in the size of the Student Direc­tory. It is to be made larger than the ones of previous years. The new size will be more adaptable to both the students' pocket and the desk. The pages will be two1 columns wide. The book will con­tain valuable information about the students, faculty, class officers and fraternities.The price of this book has not, as yet, been determined.
H. P. Carpenter I Louis Burnan J
Harry Madson 1
Contestants Urged to Finish Matches Soon in Order to Complete the Schedule
Swimme'rs Will Work Out on Gym 
Floor Until Tank Work Starts 
On November 5thCoach Allison’s Battalion Unable 
to Stop Kiski Gridders in 
Saturday Game
That interest in tennis has by no means decreased at Carnegie is shown by the numbers in the fall tennis tournament. Twenty names we're signed to the list which hyrig last week on the gym bulletin 
board. Drawings have been made and a schedule of matches ar­ranged. The first round must be finished by next Saturday, ..October 13. Any unplaycd matches, at that time, will be defaulted. The., elimi­nations should not take more than three weeks. Many of the matches promise a plcntitude of excitement especially as the tournament nears the finals. The entry list includes some freshmen, upper classmen and all returning members of last year’s 
varsity and plebe teams.To carry the tournament through on schedule time a few sugges­tions and rules Jiave been offered by those in charge:Ararnge for your match as soon as possible.The winner will place his name and score on the proper line oh the chart in the gym.Players will furnish their own1 tennis balls.Continue with the next round as scon as your opponent is that far.Finish the first round by Satur­day, October 13.Watch the bulletin board in the gym for later information.Coach Hoover urges the utmost co-operation from all contestants. Such co-operation added to a little luck with the weather, in all prob­ability, will mean a completed 
tournament.
M. Kline ] William Gcsling )
David Scamaq 1
First plans for what promises to 
be Carnegie’s most successful swim­
ming season, were discussed last 
Monday afternoon. A meeting of 
varsity and Plebe candidates as 
well as would-be managers was 
lu-ld in the gym. After the busi­
ness discussion was over the men took a short dip in the tank to give Coach Risedorph an impres­sion of this seasons material. In accordance with a new plan of coaching, the men will not work in the pool again until November 5. 
In the meantime they will have workouts on the gym floor.
A most successful year is an­ticipated. Ten out .of last year’s eleven varsitly men arc eligible as well as several excellent perform­ers from the ’31 Plebe squad. Some of this season’s Plcbcs are bright­ening that team’s chances also.Meets have been scheduled with Wooster, Case and Pitt, while ten­tative dates have been set with Notre Dame and W. & J. As usual,J ech and Pitt will meet twice dur­ing the winter. A Plebe schedule has not been arranged, -but local high schools will furnish most of the opposition.
Coach Risedorph desires every one possessing swimming ability to report for the squad. An invita­tion is extended to all freshmen tc try for the managership. The desired competition for this posi­tion has not yet been reached, <so the opportunity for success in this sport is greater, perhaps, than for 
any other. Those who didn’t at­tend Monday’s meeting should see either Coach Risedorph, Varsity Manager W. D. Bronson, Plebe Manager , Bob Woods or Henry Butts.
An ideal football day was in the j cards for the Frosh game against Kiski, but excepting that every­thing went against them, an alto­gether different team faced Kiski than that which battled St. Vin­cent’s -eleven to an 18-0 score Sat­urday a week ago, at Beatty.After repeated penalties for be­ing off-sides and other penalties that no one knew the meaning of, the team began to act like a high- strung'race horse. Especially to­ward the end of the game dicl the line charge brokenly and the back- jield fumbled several, times due to the nervous strain. Kiski present­ed an offense and defense that no prep school or college freshman 
team should under rate, for if they do they will be handed a very ugly surprise package in none too gentle' methods by the eleven from Kiskiminetas Springs school. Don’t get it wrong when the mention is made of the foregoing subject, for Kiski wasn’t under rated. Owing to an unfortunate chain of circum­stances the Plcbcs entered the fray a very different eleven thart the machine everyone expected. The Kiski team was every whit as heavy as the Plebes and showed evidence of having as. much ex­perience. Taken by and large “Jim” Marks put a real grid ag­gregation on the field.
Kiski plunged the ball over the goal line in the first quarter on a succession of bheks and off-tacklc plays. Straight football character­ized the offense of the Kiski grid­ders throughout the contest, as they very rarely used the overhead at­tack. Captain McMurdo made a 
successful kick f°r ^lc extra point after touchdown.Starting the" second quarter Mc­Curdy and Ziegler each made 20 yard runs in rapid fire order. On an exchange of kicks, one known as' a straight-up was snatched^ by Pounccy and carried to the Kiski ten yard line. At this point Car­negie made their greatest attempt to score but were thwarted" by two penalties totaling 25 yards. One of these was for an off-side play, but no one had the slightest idea what the other one was for. The’1 half ended with the ball in Carnegie’s possession.In the first play of the second half McCurdy made a beautiful 40 yard run to Kiski’s 30 yard line, but again a series of penalties knocked our touchdown hopes into a cocked hat. At this point Kiski started a march down the field [through repeated line bucks and ! Carnegie- penalties that found the ball on the Carnegie 21 yard line as the quarter ended. In the fourth quarter Kiski gained 11 yards on off-tackle bucks and then they were practically handed a touchdown through the medium of another penalty. McMurdo again kicked goal. In'the last few min­utes of play Schmidt made another touchdown, but the try for point 
was unsuccessful Stauffer played a bang-up game at tackle, stopping nearly every play that came through his side of the line. . McCurdy, Pounccy, and Zeigler made the most of Carnegie’s gains.Carnegie was penalized 65 yards and Kiski 15. Kiski was not as superior as the score indicates, for Carnegie made seven first downs and Kiski eight, and four of these were results of Carnegie penalties.An early season defeat is not anything to wail about as it is sometimes the best tonic obtainable for the affliction known as over­confidence. Everyone - is looking forward to the West Virginia game Saturday with the expectations of the Plebes erasing all memories of this defeat from the minds of loyal sons of Skibo.Armentrout____L.E_____>,__ WattLletcher ----------L.T.—(C)M’MurdoPerch _________L.G_______ GailusDucanis ________C________ GrayKozicki _____,_R.G--------- WernerStauffer ______R.T____ MurdochMatia ________R.E________ MarkMcCurdy(C) ___Q. —MontgomeryZiegler ________L.H_______ AbbottArcher ________R.H. _____PetruzziEwing ________F--------- Vuchinich
Kiski touchdowns—Montgomery, Schmidt, Mittlcr. Points after touchdowns—McMurdo, 2.Substitutions—Carnegie: Widmerfor Perch, Pouncey for Ewing, Sheckles for Widmer; Archer for Ziegler. Kiski—Barclay for Wer­ner, Port" for- Abbott, Leadbeater for Mark, Blackson for Gray. Comora for Gailus, Wheeler for McMurdo, Fife for Mittler, Schmidt for Abbott, Endorka for Murdoch, Laspinski for Port, McGcary for Watt.
W. D. Bronson 1 R. M. Earnehart j
M. Fox IW. C. Schade J
C. A. Bergliene 1 C. M. Dorsey )Ithaca, N. Y.—Some two score young men and women who other­wise might never complete their college education will be enabled to go through Cornell university each year under the terms of tho will of the late George W. Lcfevre.< a retired business man, who died in Paris on August 13.The will, recently filed, provides that Mr. Lefcvre’s residuary estate, estimated at between $250,000 and $500,000, shall go into a perpetual trust fund to be known as the “George W. Lefevrc. Trust Fund for Scholarships in Cornell Univer­sity.”
The scholarships'will be for $40G a year cach.
MorrisBye
Bob Caffcc Ed Schade
D. P. York Bye
R. S. Tener B. Hardie
Rus. Kambach 'V E. McKloskey )
R. J. Morgan T 
By c S
George Wile T Bob Rose j
Stanley Keeber Y Bye j;
First Church of Christ 
SCIENTIST 
CLYDE ST., PITTSBURGH
SUNDAY SERVICES 11 A. M. 8 P. M.Sunday School 11 A. M.Wednesday evening services 8 to 9
There was a drop in immigration to the United STTltes for the year ended with last June by comparison with the inflow for 1927. Last year’s arrivals numbered • 500,631 aliens, of whom 307,255 were im­migrants and 193,376 non-immi­grants. ^ For 1927 the figures were 335,175 immigrants and 202,826 non­immigrants. Thus the chief dcclinc among arrivals last year was in the immigrant class, the only group that bears a relation to the per­manent population of the’country. The two -countries sending us the largest number of immigrants were Canada, with 73,154, an'd Mexico,, with 59,016. Neither of-*these coun­tries falls within the quota restric­tions. Germany, which does, sent us 45,778 immigrants, while there were 38,193 of Irish stock, 33,597 of English, 23,177 of Scotch, 18,740 of Italian, 18,644 of Scandinavian, and 17,963 of -'French. Thus t/.e aim of the framers of our present immigration policy—a stock ' pri­marily _ from the North European j races—is in process of realization, although there arc political and economic causes to account for it as well as our statutes. Mussolini, for instance, is discouraging Italian emigration and we have the spec­tacle—curious when one recalls past figures—of nearly as 'many immi­grants from France as from Italy.
VARSITY SCORING RECORD(Continued from Page 1)A Course in
Handling Money
The formation of a bank­ing connection early in life is an indispensable part of your education.
The •experience in handling money, the friendly advice of specialists trained to meet every type of financial problem, will enable von to make the most of your allowance now, and will eventually help you to succcss in whatever line of work you may follow.
SuccessfulTriesTouch-DownsTotalPointsmore touchdowns to Carnegie's al-; 
ready ample supply. Flanagan pro-1 
duccd the first and the sterling | 
Harpstcr the second. Flanagan1 got his on the “;j$id around” play ¦ while Harpster’s was more sensa-1 tional. The Purple and Gold full-1 back had attempted to punt out of I danger. His kick was caught aifcl! then fumbled by the Plaid Captain, b t Harpy recovered the fumble on his own 30 yard line and then raced 70 yards down the field through the entire Ashland tcaiA for a touchdown. It was a re­markable exhibition of broken field running -and one that bodes no good for Carnegie's opponents lat­er on in the season. v The fourth quarter was well un­der way before " Carnegie did any further scoring. With six minutes of play left, Kerr, a halfback, took a pass from Harpstcr and crossed the line. The second touchdown was made by Harpstcr himself aft­er the Tartans had worked .the ball down from Ashland’s 40 yard line. In this same period Carnegie
Try For PointsNamehe initial meeting of the Car­rie Mechanical Engineers’ So- ty will be a smoker and gct- ;ether and will be held on Fri- | evening, October 12, in Ma- nery Hall. All students who arc 
oiled in any option in Mcchani- . Engineering arc urged to at- id. The Executive committee has nc interesting and pertinent dope 
present. Smokes will be plcnti- and refreshments will be served, 
cwing gum will be provided for Dse who do not smoke. Come d meet the men in your dc- rtmcnt.
Harpster
Karcis___
MooreheadFRANK BROTHERS
Rfili Avenue Boot Shop
Between -I7lb nnd -liîh Streets. New M>rk
lannagan
Letzelter
Dreshar
Pittsburgh Shop 
Jenkins ArcadeIntroduction by a friend is lsually the Safest way to make new acquaintances. For about .iftecn years this paper has in­troduced its students to a/ de­pendable "Service Station” for Invitations, Programs, Gifts, Pens, Pen Repairs, etc. Refer to this notice if you patronize the Singer Pen & Gift Shop, .lenkins Arcadc.
PLEBE SCORING RECORD
Touch-DownsTry For Successful Points ! TriesTotalPointsPaint — Hardware — Electric Supplies
Oakland Hardware Co.
Mayflower 0923’ Iroquois Elodv
Armentrout
McCurdy
___Dongcs___ Baker____ LenzMcCunc_____ Erb___ RussellNovan ty B. Johnson ____ Riley
All Methodist Student Reception
Christ Methodist Episcopal Church
Baum Blvd. at Center St.
Thursday, October 11th, 8:30 P. M.
FOLLOW THE KILTY BAND
ALL CARNEGIE FOOTBALL MEN
WEAR
CARNEGIE PLAID MACKINAWS
Sold Exclusively to Carnegie Students 
—BY—
ALBERT G. RALL
SPECIAL REPRESENTATIVE
SHOWING AT SKIBO INN—OCT. 10-11
1104 L^w and Finance Bldg. Atlantic 8947
Blow The Man Down• • • •
Who said Old Man Wind was a cherub! Never was a fellow who sat through a football game with a raw au­
tumn wind blowing right through him every time he got 
enthusiastic over a play, that called him that name. We know lots of other names, though, that he is alleged to 
have called him!
FORBES
NATIONAL BANK
Guam.—The natives of Guam arc taking with enthusiasm to the re­cently introduced game of basket­ball, an enthusiasm rivaling that shown for baseball when the game was first brought to' the islands by Americans.There are five American and two native basketball teams here.Among the Chamorro children the craze is reading rapidly. Many of them, for lack of the necessary equipment, use a bent bamboo strip nailed to a coco p<jlm for a wicker and a ripe cocoanut for a ball.
Your Home Bank
Look over the student stands next game. See the fel­
lows wearing Trench Coats. They’re comfortable.Wind doesn’t bother them. 'Neither does inclement 
weather. And they’re smart in a careless, University 
way, too!
For Better Service, See Us—We Use Factory Methods
Tech Shoe Repairing
420 S. CRAIG STREET 
SHOE SHINING KAT CLEANING
The logical place to deposit your check from 
home. An account may be opened for any 
amount without being subject to a service charge.Gimbels is headquarters for these swagger Trench Coats 
. . . made in the full English raglan style, in light tan 
gabardine. All are lined with wind and weather defying 
suede cloth. Every University man can afford one at...
Take Express Elevator or Escalator Direct 
to Men’s Clothing—Fifth FloorSTUDENT ACCOUNTS WELCOME
niT 'EM HIGH—HIT ’EM LOW,
COME ON. CARNEGIE—LET’S GO
To HUGHES MUSIC BOX
105 ATWOOD STREET
Just Around (he Corner For All the Laics! Victor, Columbia and Brunswick 
Itccords. Popular Sheet Music and Musical Supplies.
Fifth and OaklandPittsburgh
Phone Atlantic 4400Sixth Avenue at Smithfield
THE CARNEGIE TARTAN TUESDAY, OCTOBER 9, 1928.

---------------------------------------------------

TUESDAY, OCTOBER 9, 1928.THE CARNEGIE TARTAN
CARNEGIE TECH’S BACKFIELD SQUADed, while on the defense they were hopelessly outclassed. Great holes were ripped in the line, and be­fore the backs could rush up to make the tackle our own back- field was through the line and away. The Ashland coaches play­ed a seven man line against the Tartans in order to stop the line bucks, but thijh would not have been successful wad they played a ten man line. The Tech fofwards resembled a seven dog team tug­ging at the,harness. The snapping of the ball was the signal for them to go, and away, they went, root­ing out everything in front of them. To pick out any individual star on the line would be unfair to the rest, for they were oft to­gether before the line opposite them was even set for the on­slaught. If the team improves every week as they did last week Tech . should have a great year.
football players are born, hot, ‘Certainly,’ he points out,! ‘pi attributes enter into being feet football player, but a factured tackle or fullback \\ ways remain an automaton, chanical player. The boy \ worth his weight in gold Is h is always in every play and game up to his neck.’
A Football Player’s 
Opinion of the 
Ashland Game
Saturday, October 6, -Carnegie showed their true strength by de­feating Ashland 65-0 in a one­sided game. The visitors put up a good game but the Skibos were out to show the public that they have something. Dyke .Beede docs not know how fortunate he was last Saturday, for if Wally’s ath­letes had played against the Titans as they played last Saturday it is doubtful if Westminster would have been able to put 11 men on the field for their last game. The game was not very interesting from a spectator’s point of view, but it threw a scare into the men who were scouting the Tartans. The smiles that the scouts wore after watching . the sloppy exhibi­tion at Youngstown were changed to more serious expressions.From a *technical standpoint Tech played almost flawless foot­ball, and if the grins on Steffen and Waddell meant anything-'they were well satisfied with the game. Captain Iiarpster who led the at­tack for the Skibos, played a great game at quarter. His generalship and passing were excellent and the few punts that lie made in the last few minutes of play were of the long high,, spiral variety which .give the backs who catch them plenty of trouble. The real bright' spot 
in the Tech offense was the plung­ing of Karcis. Time after time he hit the opposing line, ripping it to shreds and generally running through most of> the secondary. His play is very consistent, and Pitt, W. and J. and the others will find that he is a hard nut to crack. Moorhead, Letzeltcr, and especially Eythe, could all be mentioned as great ball carriers, but to point out any one individual star would be difficult.
The line appeared to have found itself and showed its great strength throughout the whole encounter. Ashland was outcharged from start to finish. When the Ohioans had the ball their' backs were ;stopped many times before they got start-
< "Sports writers, next to j sional athletes, have* the mo lightful life on earth,” says brook Peglcr in the Novcml sue of College Humor, writi Experts. “They are paid hoorayed for doing in office what they would do anywa relaxation and pleasure if the to work. They attend ball ( prize fights, tennis, golf, and tournaments, horse races, l- matches, and the like. They all over -the country and a i them winter in the tropics, sure I would like this."It was my notion that writing was one specialized o tion in which the practitioner get by knowing no more 
his subject than a fry cool modern drug store knows ab( U. S. pharmacopoeia. Jiowt believe a reporter should b to write an account of anyth sees and that if lie hasn’t ac latcd enough lay knowledge game we play in this courr afford him a general underst! of what is going on, he isn servant enough tb be a repoi the first place.”
THOMAS LIPPERT
THEY CAME, they couldn’t help to see—but unlike the 
noble Caesar, they got knocked off. Ashland may have been a 
big shot in their Ohio Home, but we are afraid the game de­
generated into a scrimmage practice for the Skibos.
BUT, A 65-0 DEFEAT is a hard enough pill to swallow 
without rubbing it in. The Ohioans were game—fighting against 
hopeless odds and admitted defeat, they managed to keep the 
contest interesting. However, they were not in Carnegie’s class 
—that is about all that can be said about the game.HOW BILL ROPER PICKS 
HIS PRINCETON 
VARSITYBUT! THESE BUCKEYES seem to be rather hard nuts 
’to crack. Unlike the Westminster workout only several of the 
Ashlanders were hurt and those only slightly. In comparison, 
Schnupp, formidable guard, left the game with several torn 
shoulder ligaments. "Bert” says he will be on deck for the 
W. and J. scrap. Again “Dutch” Eytli, flashing half, received 
a wrenched leg early in the -contest while Eovewdl was simi­
larly, but not so badly, hurt, in the closing period.
A FEW BOUQUETS could be distributed. Despite lack 
of competition it was easily seen that the squad had overcome 
many of the errors so prevalent in their initial game. Harpster 
and Karcis were the most consistent outstanding performers of 
the afternoon. Eyth, Moorehead, Rosenz.weig and Dreshar, all 
played games above criticism.
HOWEVER it is such walkovers that do more harm to a 
team than good. , No player is pressed, which has a ten­
dency to produce laxness and inefficiency besides that jinx of 
many elevens—OVERCONFIDENCE.* * * *** *
100 PER CENT substitutions were the order of the day.
Everyone was in the play from Harpster to Sketres—several 
managers were warming up when the final whjstle sounded.x * * * * * * , , ,
“WALLY” AND WADDELL have the traditional habit of
taking a drink (aqua) for every touchdown made. Saturday two 
managers were kept busy supplying the necessary water and 
the final quarter found both coaches showing unmistakable signs 
of being waterlogged.
THE JUDGE doesn’t care to have his boys run up more 
than a 40-0 score on any team, for many different reasons—but 
what can you do if all your substitutes insist on forcing over 
touchdowns?
"The quality I look for at first is best described as tile ability to handle oneself,” says Bill Roper, Princeton coach, in the November jssuc of College Humor; "a close correlation between mind and mus­cle which shows in balance, speed, rhythm and grace, I seek out the men with nerve and cheerfulness, who do not complain too readily of bumps and discouragements and bruises. The successful coach stud­ies his squad and learns the dispo­
sitions and temperaments of every player. The unimaginative boy perfectly set up but utterly lacking in fire and spirit to rise to a fight­ing . pitch during a game is a thorn in any coach's basket of roses."There is a general impression that only big, brawny men have a chance to excel in football. .Coach Yost, of Michigan, gives five quali­ties that make up the football player: determination, perseverance, co-ordination, brains and strength. ‘Determination, not strength, is the first thing I look for,’ he says. ‘The strong, brainy, co-ordinated boy is not an athlete unless he possesses the determination and willingness to persevere.’"Stagg, of Chicago, believes that
Left to right—Traa, fullback; Morbito,' half; Hilty, half; Stauffer, quarter; Kerr, half; Eyth, half; Suehr, half; Karcis, fullback; Letzeltcr, fullback; Kennedy, half; T. Flanagan, half; Moorhead, half; Carlson, half. Captain Harpster, quarterback, kneeling.
SCHNUPP INJUREDCLOTHIERS APPROVECOLLEGIATE DRESSA man in Sussex, England had lost his voice ten year owing to a gas attack durin war, recovered it after a nigh caused by witnessing a sta film.
A university man’s garb, always the object of much scrutiny by clothiers, is again in the limelight. These go-getters have completed another of their '"surveys,” this time time in three widely sepa­rated educational institutions.In the South, Vanderbilt was se­lected as a typical university in a “university town.” In the North, Yale was chosen for the same reason.. And for middle ground, Princeton was selected. The re­sults were combined and the fol­lowing statement (which they would have you believe) made:"In all of these colleges, ob­servers found that almost unani­mously, the students had reverted from the ‘slouchy’ college tendency of recent years, to a tidiness and care in dress that was surprising.“In all the colleges the starched collar was found to be so nearly universal that it appears to con­stitute almost a uniform. The com­fortable low, pliant, starched varie­ties were most in demand ‘in both North and Sputh."Extreme cuts of trousers, ab­surd shirt collar and lie combi­nation and other freakish effects have disappeared.
"The college man, according to one student, realizes that lie is a potential wage earner and that lie is judged by his habits in clothes as well as in his other practices. He is not attractive to his col-' leagues, to the co-eds or to his future employer in silly-looking clothes. . ."That is why het has decided to wear reasonable looking clothes.”
Successful experiments have been made with parachutes strong enough to_ permit the safe landing of small airplanes when disabled in the air.
Classified Advertisin 
Accepted
RATES—50 cents minimi 
for 25 words or less; 2 cel 
for each additional worq. Ca 
in advance.
WISCONSIN had a lot of nerve beating Notre Dame 22-6 
before we get a crack at the Irish.. However their twenty-two- 
year record of no home defeat is still intact—that is, intact until 
November 17.
GEORGETOWN IS ENCOUNTERED November 10 at 
Albany, N. Y. Why at Albany, we don’t know. The following 
is an extract from The Hoya, Georgetown University’s paper: 
'‘Carnegie Tech, at Albany, N. Y., is the order for the 10th of 
¦November. Eawrence Perry, J;he leading football authority of 
the press, gives in a recent interview that Carnegie will have 
the leading team in the country this .season, Knute Rockne is of 
a similar opinion, just the least bit altered. He picks them to 
be the second team in the national rating. Asked who he 
thought would give him the most opposition this season, Rockne 
did not hesitate to mention Carnegie first.”* * * * * * *
AN 18-0 VICTORY at St. Vincent’s opened the .Plebe’s 
season. Journeying to Kiski they fell before the prep school 
boys with a 20-0 score, in their second game. With a tearft 
considerably heavier than the freshmen, Kiski is always a for- 
mideable opponent and the Prebes can not be criticized for their 
defeat. The Kiski aggregation was one of the toughest teams 
encountered by last year’s Plebes.
POOR AND ONE-SIDED refereeing is the cry we hear 
from many sources as partial cause for the defeat. That is one 
of the oldest and poorest alibis' to advance, but according to 
unbiased spectators the decisions were absolutely rank. It’s 
hard enough to play eleven men without the officials jumping in.
THE FIRST YEAR MEN played a commendable game. 
Stauffer, 210 pound tackle, was the most brilliant performer; 
few plays passed through his side. McCurdy, at quarter, and 
Ziegler, at half, continued their excellent playing., * * * * * * *
THE PITTSBURGH REPRESENTATIVES of Iiearst and 
Scripps-Howard must have something against "Dear Old Tech.”
Somehow we get very tired of seeing Carnegie always mentioned
after Pitt,,both in headings and stories. If they can not loosen 
up with a separate head, we would greatly appreciate a fifty- 
fifty break when it comes to first mention.' But then, Carnegie, 
secluded in the wilds of Schenley, is perhaps not considered 
worthy of tile city of Pittsburgh.* =i' * * ’ * * *
THE THIEL GAME should be one worth seeing. They 
are somewhat lighter than Carnegie, but still above the average. 
Pitt chalked up a 20-0 victory over the Lutherans—our score 
should be about 30-0, but a little doubtful with Schnupp on the 
bench. (Continued on page eight) *
SAVE ONE-THIRD
THE STUDENT BOOK SHOI
SKIBO INN
Schnupp, star 2Ì0-pound guard on the, Tartan squad, suffered a badly wrenched shoulder in the Ashland game. He'will probably be out for at least two weeks. His absence greatly weakens the Plaid line.
CARNEGIE GRIDIRON SQUADUSED TEXT BOOKS, T-SQUARES, DRAWING 
SETS AND OTHER SCHOOL EQUIPMENT
Years onAge Vnrsity High School Position
20 1 Beaver High............................Gunn}
•.'.I I Jamestown, N. Y............Halfbuqk
v22' 1 Bellefonlo Academy.......; I
....................Guard nnd Cenlei;
20 1 Mars High..........................Halfback
20 1 Montclair Academy.^.......................End.
20. 1 Blair Acadcmy.................Halfback
21 S Akron, O...................Quarterback
21 I Bellevue High...............................................................................Guard
20 1 Greensburg High.................Tacklc
2-1 1 Kiski ...................................Halfback
22 , 2 California Normnl...........Halfback
22 ' 2 Allegheny High...............Halfback
22 1 Monaca High.....'................Fullback
2L 3 MoneHsen, Pa.............................End
21 1 Academy High, Eric..................Guard.
21 3 Martins Ferry, O............Fullback
21 It Scott High, Toledo.............Guard
26 3 Jamestown High...................Tnckle
22 3" Kiski ............Center and Gunrd
22 3 Bellevue High...................Halfback
21 1 Lcctoniu Hich---------—Hnlfback
20 1 Denver. Pa..............................Guard
23 1 Bfllefonlc Academy...-..........End
20 2 Lakewood High..................Tacklo
22 ) Bcllefontc Academy........„Tacfllo
22 2 Canonsburg .................................End
23 3 F. & M. Acndcmy..Quarterback
21 3 McKees Rocks............................End
10 1 South Hills High.............Fullback
21 2 Bcllefontc Acadcmy..........Center
22 3 Wilkinsburg High..........„...Tncklc
Weight Height ....188 6 ft. % In.
......171 r. ft. io-in.....185 C it. 10 in.
Name Booth, George. Carlson, Oscar. Dreshnr, John.
Eyth, Howard................Flanagan, Latham.:......
Flanagan, Thayer.........Harpster, Howard.........Hclmbold, John............Highberccr.. John M....
Hilty, Malcolm...............Kennedy, George.............Kerr, John K.................
Karcia, John................rKuosrrmn. W. S.........—,
Krack, Clarence............Letzeltcr, C. J...............Lovcwcll, Donald J......
Middletown, W. F........Miclzinor, Snul.........
Moorhead, Glonn.r.....—Morbito, Joseph.........Nctherland, Robert...—.. Roscnr-wcig. Theodore....
Schmidt. Robert A........Schnupp, Leonard J....Shaughency, Harvey C.
Stauffer, J. C.................
Sweet, Anthony G........Tran. Jnmes F...........»...Yerina, Andrew............
Young, H. S..................
OPEN DAY AND NIGHT 
HOURS: 11:30.- 1:30, 6:45 - 8:45
WANTED ALL NIGHT SCHOOL BOOKS
WANTED IMMEDIATELY THE FOLLOWING BOOKS:Elephants in captivity have been known to remain on their feet for five years.
POP WARNERformances. And combining his thirty-three years of activity, the teams and ::tars he has turned out, t! . drastic progress'he lias forced in' our favorite sport, and his own unique personality, he holds his title securely.“Warner can sec a team play and find more flaws in their de­fense, more blocks for their offense and. more characteristic ‘give aWay* traits in the players than any man living. ' Stanford has never been accused of playing dirty football even before Warner came there, but had it been -a practice before the advent of the old man he would Iiave/put a stop to it. He sees every’ bit of it pulled in a game.“One of the secrets of Pop’s success,” continues Hyland, “is his knack of putting men where they belong. He turns average half­backs into successful ends, niakes; stac guards, out of poor quarters^ dependable centers ^out of erratic tackles, and vice versa.“His teams fight as much for Pop as they fight for their Alma Mater; And when Pop tells you to do something, i 3roti go out „and do better than your best, to win. O-.c thing Pop does not do—and it is illustrative of the way he handles his -men—is to bawl them out before the rest of the squad, lie thinks" .of their feelings and takes them aside when he has any­thing unflattering to say.“His system—the Warner system so often mentioned wherever foot-: ball men gather to talk about the game—has taken thirty years to build. Todajr it is one, of the simplest and most effective in foot­ball. Pop has a flock of basic plays which he gives his team the first week every season. During a season he will give approximately sixty plays; about twenty of them will be used. A rival coach once said that if Stanford had a quarter ready to call the plays Pop gives Stanford teams, 110 one in the country could hold Stanford under six touchdowns.“The players never get familiar with Pop, never feel close to him .personally, although they do wise- creck him occasionally and he likes- it. lie is one of the crowd when he is .with other people, ?nd his favorite indoor sport is to gather several old-timers around him and have a 'remember when’ game. His stock of anecdotes and stories— parlor, bedroom, bath and football —is inexhaustible.” v
“Other coaches have- flashed more brightly across certain fall seasons when all America is football mad,” says Dick Hyland, a Warner foot­ball star, writing in the November College' Humor about the Pacific Coast coach. “Two others, have service -records as long. A few ¡have defeated him. But none have equaled ‘Pop’ Warner’s best per-
CARNEGIE
“One cigarette of the four_I 
smoked in the blindfold test 
was like shooting a scene suc­
cessfully after a whole series of 
failures. It just ‘clicked’ and I 
named it as my choice. It was 
G3: 0.3:O Which clears up a 
mystery, for the supply of G3: 
0.3:F in my Beverly Hills 
home is constantly being de­
pleted. It seems that Strong- 
heart and^Rin-tin-tin are the 
only motion picture' stars who 
don’t smoke them.”
Karcis (215)
Lctzcltcr (185)
Harpstcr (158).
^ LE*
L. Flannagan (186)Rosenzweig (185)
Highbcrgcr (196)Dreshar (192)Schmidt (205)
ffiI
CHARLIE CHAPLIN
... movie favorite Ihc world over, 
in one of his best*lovcd pioturaa 
—"The Circuì."
Kurts (170)Dickson (155)Leonard (180)Latimurc (180)
Costnn (180)Frnnks (175)Linguist (170).
OIOGolóM R. CHAPLIN waa aaked to atnoke each of the four leading 
brand«, clearing hi* taite with coffee between «mokes. Only 
one question waa aiked: "Which one do yon lilt« the belt? "
Bcrkman (145)]How does OLD GOLD do it?
What'a the secret of OLD GOLD’S winning charm? 
The answer is very simple. Three types of leaves 
grow on the tobacco plant . . , coarse, heavy lop- 
leaves, irritating to the throat . . . withered ground- 
leaves, without taste or aroma . ,, and the heart-
leaves, rich in cool and fragrant smoking qualities. 
These golden-ripe heart-leaves give OLD GOLDS 
their honey-like smoothness. That’s why so many 
people choose them. And that’s why you too can 
pick them . . . even in the dark.
O I’. I/orilUrd Co., Est. 1760
Made from the heart-leaves 
of the tobacco plantBoscavitch (170)Mitchell (110)
THIELSMOOTHER AND BETTERNOT A COUGH IN A CARLOAÍ

---------------------------------------------------

.THE CARNEGIE TARTANTUESDAY, OCTOBER 9, 192&
Çi'i
PHONE MAYFLOWER 2G00 
bllohwl cjnco cvory week during the :o your by undfirKrnduntcs of CnrncKic 
uto of Technology. Entered In the mrgli Pont Office nu sccond-cl/ins matter.
PARK INTELLIGENTLY
THINK IT OVER
THE STAFF 
pr-in-Cbicf—Stewart C. Ralstond '¿ditor___EdAV. E. McDonald .nc.ir. Manager—James H. Seibert j
aging Editor.,..__William McNeill» Editor_______„....Ruth Bramsonten’s Editor.............Dorothy Roy.etip Editor— Thomas W. Lippert j inni Editor—...Charles R. Nelson
ASSOCIATE EDITORS 
in Reed Eugene Jaremain Booth Hyman J. Levinson¡n Whitehill Kathryn O’Donnell
CONTRIBUTING EDITORS 
ian Miller Joe B. Pattersont E. Wonders Alex M. Fisher
JUNIOR EDITORS 
¦mary Barr Wilfrid H. Worland \> Carpe Henry L. Butiker, Jr.I . Catherine Boyd 
REPORTERS .
Boyle H. Meixnericlcels D. K. TomerCline I... M. Baugh ,H.. Martsolf E. Schlesinger4. Wilson J. H. McAtccrShussct C. T. AtkenhcilL. Myers A. F. Phillips•I. Barr .• E. J. Dattisman W Hay G. Ii. MerrinJ. Eason H. R. WeitzelI. Levin 
IJUS1NESS DEPARTMENT
crtising Mgr.__Robert H. Wchrlcistantr,__________David H. Gcnt.brWillis M. Crosby John Wright
iulation Mgrs___Michael MalinichCarl Blass
•Tice—Room 12, InduBtrlcs Building. Of- 
ilourts—Monday to Thursdaya, 12:30, ', Paper made up Friday, 12:80-0:00.
> inaurc publication on the succecdinK jday, nows items must be in the student 
office or Tartan Office before 4:30
reday.[
if tor olttco hourB, call—
.._...-_.-...~..~...Oakmo'nt 567-W......................................Mayflower 8321
d Ediiot....................~........Atlantic 1300................................Schenley 238!)
fnoaa Manager--.---------------Schenley 0211B Manager.....!........„...Schenley 9082
ASSEMBLIES
>on today the first general 
y of the year will be held 
,'egic Music Hall. It is 
to have one such gatlier- 
the entire student body 
jnth as in the past. Those 
ge of the general student 
ies are making ev,ery effort 
re interesting and cntcr- 
prpgrams, the true secret 
fopcr undergraduate' attend- 
t these monthly meetings, 
the past the student reprc- 
3tt at assemblies has • not 
tdtat it should be, it is quite 
c that it was because the 
¡ms offered did not have ¿ill attraction. During busy :.s when there scarcely seems sufficient time in which to that one desires to do, it is natural that the affairs having last interest or the least re- :nse should be neglected, ig in responsibility with the st of the program in main- g student attendance, is the of closing general assemblies. i students have but one free mid-day on Tuesdays, and fcticularly difficult to attend ' drawn out entertainment cgard the customary noon rf assembly programs be n time and close promptly, 1 remains time for lunch, t, it is certain that a dis- audicnce will contribute ,cly toward a poor" at- at the next meeting. It hoped that these matters yen well taken into consid- in forming the schedule for /ear, or the small groups of .- years will likely result at Council assemblies, only fair, however, that the .tudcnt body show faith in ipresentatives and make a Drt to carry on the tradi- lusic Hall assemblies by a 'tendance. All Freshmen oursc, be present, for they :ired to do so by regula- 3ut they will want to at- : they have not yet devel- at tragic indifference to functions so noticeable on t of a number of upper- i. Assembly programs have, 
past and taken as a group, ighly interesting and well 
.ttending. There is no rea- believe that they will not to be so, and Carnegie should take advantage of jrtunity that is offered for :f pleasure and entertain- the midst of crowded j and heavy assignments.
ig.—’Chinese youngsters have the ¦‘‘spirit of modern youth” ¿ently have gone their Amer- usins one better in the way .ting to their'elders.? of the Peking Middle ! boys and girls from 12 to s of age even less advanced upils of that age in the States, have become so ighly imbued with the "new that they have organized a and have issued a mandate educational authorities set- ytli exactly what sort of men |e appointed as principals of ddle schools here, requirements are unique, lli the exception of the sec- iclc, rather vague." They rc-
iiddle school principals must clear understanding of the [People's Principles bf the r. Sun Yct-sen.They must have been en- in local educational work least- three years, and must 1 known among local cduca-
riiey must all be recognized i of character.cse requirements of the pu- lion are not met, the voung- lireatcn, thev will- refuse to*Vir.jir.~l
Wut’s the use o’ meetin’-goin’Every Sabbath, wet or dry,Ef it’s right to go amo.win’Feller-mcn like oats an' rye?1 dunno but wuL it’s pootyTrainin’ round in bobtail coats— But it’s curus Christian dootyThis ’ere cuttin’ folks's’ throats..
Our own James Russell Lowell wrote the above in his bitter op­position to the Mexican war as a slave-holder’s enterprise. But then Lowell was merely ridiculing one of the world’s most popular and admired institutions; here is Thomas Carlyle also putting Mars in a very bad light when he says------“What, speaking in quite unof­ficial language, is the net purpose and upshot of war? To my own knowledge, for example, there dwell and toil, in the British vil­lage of Dumdrudge, usually some five hundred souls. From these, by certain “Natural Enemies” of the French, there are successfully selected, during the French war, say 30 able-bodied men. Dum­drudge, at her vown expense, has suckled and nursed them; she has, not without difficulty and sorrow, 
fed them up to manhood, and even trained them to crafts, so that one can weave, another build, another hammer, and the weakest can stand under 30 stone avoirdupois. Never­theless, amid much weeping and swearing, they are selected; all dressed in i<ed, and shipped away, at' the public charges, some two two thousand miles, or' say only to the south of Spain, and fed there till wanted. And now to that same spot, * in the south of Spain, arc 30 similar French arti­sans, from a French Dumdrudge, in like manner wending, till at length, after infinite effort, the two parties come into actual juxtaposi­tion-, and Thirty stands fronting Thirty, each with a gun in his hand. Straightway Lhe word “Fire !" is given and they blow the souls out of -one another, and in place of 60 brisk useful craftsmen, the world has 60 dead carcasses, which it must bUry, and anew shed tears for. Had these men any quarrel? Busy, as,the Devil is,_not the small­est 1 They lived far enojigh apart; were , the entirest strangers; nay, in so wide a Universe, there w^s even, unconsciously, by Commerce, some mutual helpfulness between them. How then? Simpleton 1 their Governors had fallen out; iand, instead -.of shooting one another, had the cunning to make these poor blockheads shoot/—Alas, so is it in Deutschland, and hitherto in all other lands; still as of old, “what deviltry soever Kings do, the Greeks, must pay the piRcr!” In that fiction of the Eng­lish Smollett, it is true, the final Cessation of War is perhaps pro­phetically shadowed forth; where the two Natural ' Enemies, in per­son, take each a Tobacco pipe, filled with Brimstone; light the same, and smoke in one another’s faces, till the weaker gives in; but from such firedicated Peace-Era, what blood-filled trenches, and con­tentious centuries, may still divide us?".Now we hear from Count Leo Tolstoy, the great Russian novel­
ist. Since he was Russian, we had better not quote his literature— but nevertheless we will take a chance.“The bells will peal, long-haired men will dress in golden sacks to pray for successful slaughter. And the old story will l/egin again, the awful customary acts.“The editors of the daily1 Press will frfcgin virulently' to stir men up to hatred and manslaughter in the name of patriotism, happy in the receipt of an increased income. Manufacturers, merchants, contrac­tors for military stores, will hurry joyously about their business, in th- hope of double receipts.“All sorts of Government offi­cials will buzz about, foreseeing a possibility of purloining something more than usual. The military au­thorities will hurry hither and thither, drawing double pay and rations, and with •» tlie expectation of receiving for the slaughter of other men, various silly little orna­ments which they so highly prjze, as ribbons, crosses,, orders and stars. Idle ladies and gcntlenten will make a great .fuss, entering their names in advance for the Red - CrosS Society, and ready to bind up the wounds of those whom their liusSands and brothers will mutilate; and they will imagine that in so doing they are perform­ing a most Christian work.“And, ' smothering despair within their souls by s.ongs, licentiousness and wine, 'men will trail along, torn from peaceful labor, from their wives, mothers and children —men with murderous weapons in their hands—anj'where they may be driven."They will march, freeze, hunger, suffer sickness, and die from it, or finally come to some place where they will be slain by thou­sands or kill thousands themselves with no reason—men whom they have never seen „before; and who neither have done nor could do them any ^mischief.
“And when the number of sick, wounded and killed becomes so great that there are i not -hands enough left to pick them up, and when the air is so , infected with the putrefying scent of the ‘food for powder’ that even the authorities 
find it disagreeable, a truce will be . made, the wounded will be picked up anyhow, the sick will be brought in • and huddled to­gether in heaps, the killed will be covered with earth and lime,- and once more all the crowd of de­luded men will be led on_ and on till those who have devised the project, weary of it, or till those who thought to find it profitable receive their spoil.“And so once more men will be made savage,. fierce and brutal, and love will wane in the world, and the Christianizing of mankind, which has already begun, will lapse for scores and hundreds of years. And so, once more the men who 
reaped profit from it all, will as­sert with assurance that since there has been a war there must' needs have been one, and that other Avars must follow, and they will again prepare future generations for a continuance of • slaughter,. depraving them from their birth.”
Arsene Lupin
Synopsis of last week’s installment By wireless, the passengers on board the transatlantic liner, the Provence, learn that the famous thief, Arscne Lupin, is on board. Shortly afterwards Lady Jerland discovers that many of her pre­cious jewels have been stolen. A certain Rozainc is suspected \ of being Lupin in disguise.
From the star set with diamonds, from the piindant of uncut rubies, from the broken collars and brace­lets, some one had torn out, strange­ly enough, not the largest stones, but the finest and most precious ones, those, one might have said, which represented the 1 most value for their size. The mountings lay there on the table. I saw' them, every one saw them,’ despoiled of their jems . like flowers from which some one has pulled off the shining 
and colored petals.And to get away with the theft it had been necessarv. during ,the 
hour when Lady Jerland was tak­ing her tea, in open • day, 'and in a corridor where people were liable to pass to and fro, to break open the door of the cabin, to find a lit- 'tle • bag purposely hidden, at the bottom of a hat box, .to N open it, and to choose 1There was only one comment to make. There was only one opin­ion among all the passengers when the theft became known: It’sArsene Lupin. And in fact, it was just his complicated, myster­ious, inconceivable way, but a logi­cal way in spite of that, because if it would have been difficut to con­ceal the bothersome: bulk all the jewels put together would have formed, how much less would be his embarrassmentN with tlio^e de­tached little jewels-lie had taken, pearls, emeralds and sapphires.At dinner, this happened: atRozaiiie’s left' and right the two chairs were empty. That evening we learned that he had been sent for by the captain.His arrest, which no one doubted would fake place, made every one feel easier. At length one could breath freely. That same evening we played various little games. Some danced. Miss ' Nelly, espe­cially, • displayed an astonishing gaiety, which made me feel that if the attentions of Rozainc had 
pleased her at first, she no longer remembered them. The grace she displayed put an end to her 'con­quest of me. Toward midnight, in the serene clearness of the room, I admitted to her my love, with an emotion which did not seem to displease her.The next day, to the general stupor of all, we learned that the charges against him not being suf­ficient, Rozainc was free.The son of a fairly important business man of Bordeaux, he had shown papers perfectly in order.
Besides, his arms didn’t show the least trace of a wound.“Papersl birth certificatesi” cried the,, enemies of Rozainc, "but Arsene' Lupin \yill furnish you with as many of those, as you want. As to the wound, lie never re­ceived' one, or lie’s removed its tracci” 1Some one objected that at the hour of the theft—and this, was proved—Rozaiin: was walking about on the deck. But they replied to this:
“Does a man like Arscne Lupin need to be present at a theft which he commits?"
Moreover, in addition to every thing else there was one point which the most skeptical could not get around. Who, except Rozainc, was traveling alone, was blond, and had a name commencing with R? Who could the wireless indi­cate, if it wasn’t Rozaine?
And \ylien Rozaine,‘a few min- utes before lunch, audaciously came toward our group, Miss Nelly and Lady Jerland got up and moved away. They were obviously afraid.
An hour later, a manuscript state­ment was going from hand to hand among the ship’s employes, the sailors, and the travelers of every class; M. Louis Rozaine promised a sum of 10,000 franco to whoever discovered Arsene Lupin, or found the possesser of the stolen stones.
“And ,if no one will come to my aid against the' bandit,t. Rozaine declared, to the captain> ,‘T will' take this affair upon myself.”
Rozaine against Arsene Lupin, or rather, according to the word which was going . about, Arsene Lupin himself against, Arsene Lupin—the 
light wouldn’t lack interest. •Things went on that way for two days.We saw Rozaine wander about from right to left, mix with the personnel of the ship, ask. quesr 
tions, poke abòut in corners. One could seje his shadow', at night, stalking his prey.
For his part, the. captain dis­played the most active energy. Front top to, boUom, in every 
corner, the Provence was searched. Men searched all the cabins, with­out exception, with the excellent pretext that the jewels were hidden ¡anywhere except in the cabin of the guilty one.“The;- will certainly end by dis­covering something, won’t they?” Miss Nelly demanded of me. “Skil­l'll! as he is, lie can’t make those diamonds „ and pearls become in­visible.”
.“But perhaps he-can,” I replied, “unless the linings of our hats arc searched, and the lining of our vests, and everything that wc wear.”
And showing her my kodak, a nine by twelve with which I hadn’t tired taking pictures of her in
Dear Mr. Ralston:I have heard a rumor that Cardo is not going to write Thistledow^ this year because he thinks he is too busy. I think that ii you could publish half a dozen letters from your readers asking him to write again,- and telling him how eagerly, they are waiting to read his articles, he. micht be persuaded to write everj' other week perhaps, or oncc in three weeks, or even oncc a month. You can publish this as an appeal for such letters if you want. Yours,D. D. ;R. '31.
every possible attitude, L re­marked:“Nothing more is necessary than a camera no bigger than this one. Don’t you tjiink there would-be room inside it for all the preciousstones of Lady Jerland? Onewould only have to pretend totake pictures, and the game would be played.” / 1
“But I've heard it sa’id that there is no thief who doesn’t leave be­lling him some clue.”“The,re’s one: Arsene Lupiii.” “Why?”. v'Wliy? Because that man thinks not onl}' of the theft he com­mits, but also of every possible circumstance which might give him 
away.”“At the beginning you- were more confident of1 finding ^him.” • "But since- then I have seen him at work.’;“Weill then, according to you?” “According to me, we’re losing our time.” vIn fact, the investigations, were leading nowhere, or at least, what was'discovered was -of slight value in comparison with the effort spent in discovering it. And then, the captainls watch was • stolen . from ,ltim.Furjous, he redoubled his. exer­tions and • again scrutinized . Ro- 
zaihe closely, with whom he had already had several interviews. The next day—it was charming!)! ironic—someone 'found the watch among the dirty collars of a'~sub- ordinale officer.
All this was rather unusual, and evinccd well enough the humorous ways of Arsene Lupin, .thief, yes, but dilettante as well. He s'toje because he liked to steal, and be­cause that was the way he earned his living, certainly, but for amus.e^ 
ment also. lie gave one the. im­pression of a man who amused himself at the comedy he made other people take part in, and who laughed loudly behind the scenes at his own wit and the situations lie imagined.Certainly, he was an artist in his own line, and when I noticed Rozainc, gloomy and obstinate, and 
thought of the double role which that curious person was. without doubt playing, I could not speak of him without a certain friend­ship. ,.'ow, the night before we were to land, the officer of the forth watch heard some groans coming from the darkest part of the deck. He approachcd them. A man. was strctched out there, his head wrapped in a very thick grey shawl, his wrists tied together by a small strong cord.His bonds were removed. Hfc was taken, up and given first aid. The man was Rpzaine.It was Rozaine, attacked during one of his expeditions) brought to earth and stripped. A visiting card fastened by a pin to his clothing bore these words: “Arscne Lupin acccpts with thanks the. 10,000 francs of M. Rozaine;”
As a 'matter of fact, the l half empty bill fold had contained 20,- 000 franc notes. Ten of them were still in it.
Naturally, the unhappy man was accused of having made a- pre­tense of this attack against him­self. But. outsidfc of the fact that it wpuld have been impossible for him to tie himself up as he -had been, it was proved that the writ­ing on the card was absolutely different^' from the writing of i'.ozaine, and resembled on the con­trary Arsene Lupin’s, as an old paper found on board reproduced it.Rozaine, then,; was- no- .longer Ars.ene-.;:Lupm.v Rozaine’ was Ro­zaine, the son of a Bordeaux busi­ness man. And Arsene Lupin had given- evidence/,sch his presence once more, ’and by what an extra­ordinary act!
Then was the moment when everyone- was terrified. No one dared to remain alone in his cabin, 
and still less to wander about alone in unfrequented spots, Pru­dently,we formed little groups with-people we felt sure of. Still, an instinctive distrust separated the most- intimate. . The menace.seemed not to come from one person, and consequently .to be relatively siight. Arsene’Lupin had become anyone . . . everyone. Our overexcited imagination clothed him with; ‘a. miraculous and unlimited • pow^r. We thought of him as capable of- taking the most unexpected dis­guises, of being-turn by turn the respectable Major Rawson or the noble Marquis de. Ravedan, or even, for we-no longer bothered .with the accusing initial R. even such or such person known, to all as hav* intr a wife, children and servants.The first wireless dispatches from the States brought no news. At least the captain gave us none, and sm-li a silence didn’t reassure us.The last day seemed interm'iiv able. We lived in ah anxious ex- pectation^ of misfortune. This, time, we felt, it would not- be a theft, or a simple assault, it would be. a crime, perhaps murder;' We 'could
ut bring, ourselves to believe that 
Arsene Lupin would content him­
self with his two insignificant lar- 
cencies. Absolute master of the 
ship;. with the authorities power­
less, -he had only to will. Every­
thing was his, our goods, perhaps 
even our lives were in his hands;
Those were delicious hours for 
me, I admit, because they brought 
me the confidences of Miss Nelly. 
Disturbed by such happenings, her nature already excited, she spon­taneously sought from me., a pro­tection and a security which I was happy to offer her.Really, I- blessed Arsene Lupin. Was it not he who brought us together? Was it not thanks to him tlVat I had the opportunity to abandon myself to llij most beau­tiful dreams.’ Dreams of love, and dreams' less chinicrical—why not confess it? The Andrezy “come from good Poiton stock, - but their anns had -lost jts luster, ’ and it s timed, to me not, unwor-tliy of a gentleman to .think of restoring this lost luster to their name.And tlicse dreams, I thought, didn’t offend Miss Nell)'. Her smiling eyes allowed me to keep on dreaming. Her .soft voice , told me to hopci
And. until .tile, last moment wc stood beside each other leaning on the deck rail, while the line of the American"c0'ast floated be­fore us..
The search had been • given up. We waited, From first-class to steerage, . where, the' immigrants swarmed, every one waited the supreme moment when the in­soluble enigma would be explained Who was Arsene. Lupin? . Under what name, under v/hat disguise wtis the" famou? Arsehe Lupin hid­ing?
BOOK REVIEWi
Read this column in Hit Tartan next week and liiid oui.
EDUCATOR DISCUSSES
THE SMALL COI LEGES
There have been so many dif­ferent rumors about Thistledown these last two weeks that he has decided it . necessary to make a frank statement that he has no intention of writing a column this year for the Tartan. Seriously speaking, aside Jrom amusing a few Tartan readers last year, Thistledown believes he accomp­lished . one important thing. T histle- down made so much noise about plebe regulations that he is con-, vinced more credit is due him than anyone else -for stirring, up student opinion to the point of the Stu­dent Council^vote which abolishes regulations this year at Christmas, or is it ¡midyears? For that benefit, Thistledown hopes that all . future Carnegie plebes will render him praises in their prayers. Thistle­down has a notion that the other» things he occasionally discussed are pretty hopeless causes. From the few times he has been in the Grill tliis fall, it seems to him to be worse than ever. The scrvicc is slower, the tables are greasier, the clear-away help is never there- to clear away dirty dishes, there is almost no choice of meats. The' library seems to remain a sort of social center for dating, where there is more feminine chatter than Silcnce. Plebe trials and frat hell' weeks, will probably be as stupid, vulgar and uncivilized this year as last. •' College elections will probably be- just as farcical and corrupt as real politics. 'Thistle­down is too busy to spend the year un fruitfully, yapping about such things.- He feels that he. has almost outlived his usefulness, so lie prefers - to withdraw with a little glory, while .he can? He be­queaths his buffoonery to Nathan Miller, who i still practices his in­imitable sty^e. He bequeaths his uplifting enthusiasms to the Edi­tor to dump into the. editorial col umns. Thistledown never knev very accurately how many people were reading him last year, or how. they liked him, although' he listened to several very amusing dis­cussions , about himself, and even took part in a few. Thistledown hopes the' Tartan will be able , to provide its readers \vith something almost as good as himself, for this is • the last time lie will ap­pear before his public, the last time lie will make them a. grimace with his p[aid pen; this is good old Thistledown’s farewell to dear old Tech. Think it over! Finally, 'who Cardo Chardon Discnwolle was-; and why he. wrote Thistledown last year, let anyone find out who can.Yours for prickles, Cardo,
• YALE LOSES HONOR SYSTEM
American parents will select small colleges near their homes for their children if they follow the advice of Dr. Harvey, W.' Wiley, noted educator and health authority.
“The great universities with pres­ent day enrollments of 5,000 to -25,000 are like factories, turning out graduates supplied with 'specified facts on certain subjects, but they lack the advantages of intimate 
contacts between teacher and stu­dents and the congenial community Me Which develops character and fosters culture,” he declares.
“There is also a social thrcat- 
wlficli is more ¦ dangerous-iii huge crowds than in small compánies," lie says. “It is the danger of 
bolshevism- and atheism, > It is an easy matter in' these crowded edu­cational centers -to couple up dis­belief. in God with disbelief in government.
“One dollar expended, at Han­over, a small college in Indiana, gives as much culture as five at Harvard. As a graduate of both institutions I can truly make .this statement.
Students Lose Individuality “The real specific benefit of the .^mall college lies in the fact that it:- students are individuals. They know their professors. They are not simply numbers in a huge herd, without recognition or in­dividuality.
“In a comhiencement in which from one. to two thousand grad­uates receive -their diplomas, as is the case in . many of our large uni­versities', there- is no individuality. There may be a fe\y who have graduated with honors, but most of them rise and, without even an-: s we ring to their names,- are -given' the degree of Bachelor-of Arts, or whatever other degree they may receive. , ' - ‘ '
“The whole benefit of personal contact with the professor, the. ad­vantage of his personal and sym­pathetic attention and his interest in each individual character as it is unfolded before .him during the years * of the association, are all lacking in this mass instruction.“The safety of the future, the purity of learning, and the effi­
ciency of teaching arc all inti- .irjat-ely .bound up with the' small educational unit.”
Swainpscott, Mass.—Who is the originator . of our national institu­tion,-..the modern flapper?The chemist.The flapper came into liejf des­tined flappcrdom because the chem­ist fo'und lie cotild clotl\e her from head to ' foot in the equivalent of the best finery—silks,.- satins and. Whatnot—all of “synthetic” design.This secret was disclosed at the annual convention of the American’ Chemical Society here.So, that "settles the flapper qtres- tion'1 ¦
Yale’s honor system has been abandoned in part m the request of the -student council This rtil6 ap­plies to the tliret ipper classes 
only. Freshmen and students in the Sheffield school proceed on the basis so successful at Washington and Lee. (The demand for faculty super­
vision grew out of the feeling that the -pledge was no longer effective; that too .much cribbing by some and the refusal of those “on the 
level” to report violations,, was un­fair.
Just why.the honor system could not work at'Yale is by no means, clear. Perhaps the experiment was not given a sufficiently long trial. Success comes with tradition. The many famous alumni of tlie Hart­ford school will look on the rer version with regret.It is almost linbelie-vable that an institution with so high a rating 
as Yale w'ould allow itself to give up an honor system. To Wash­ington and Lee students the ¡honor system is the backbone of the in­stitution. On our campus it has 
been in vogue for generations. It lias worked, is working, and will work as long as this institution bears the name of two men. who held honor greater than life.
Other Southern institutions have working honor systems. V. M. I., our friendly neighbor, and, the Uni­versity of Virginia, just over the Blue Ridge, also have codes known tin* world over. With honor work-' ing, as it does, in these three schools, must Yale,-with the same 
Cciliber of students, ssercise faculty supervision of qualities which make a. gentleman?
Where the system has been, working over a number of years, among students, with an average sense of responsibility, it is work­ing effectively, not merely to keep examinations free from dishonesty, 
but to instill into the whole campus life,au honorable 'quality which is- .incalculably valuable. In such in­stitutions they let it be known 
that gentlemen do not need watch­ing, and only gentlemen are al­
lowed.Could the size of an institution have anything to do with the func­tion of an honor system?sWherc . attendance has grown rapidly too little time is permitted 
for the full saturation of students with traditions. In a student being deprived of an honor system, he.is .being deprived of the greatest training of self-control. However, if “cribbers” arc allowed to have their own wa}', a grave injustice 
is being done to the decent men and the standards' of the institu­tion are being debased.Washington and Lee is proud .of its 'head or system. The students 
realize that to “crib”- they- would only be victimizing themselves. They visualize the wonderful-bene­
fits derived from its great code.
Who is responsible for the quip 
that the only thing wrong about 
the younger generation is their 
parents, I do not remember,- but 
certainly that seems to be . the opin­
ion of Sir Philip Gibbs. “The Age of Reason” is the best novel treating of this hackneyed theme that wc have read. The title is. derived from the opinion of Hes- peth Jerningham, a brilliant pro­fessor of scicncc, .that we are fast approaching an era of popular en­lightenment; with the decline of the church and the abandonment of out-worn traditions, the desires of mankind will be gratified by the fruits of honest science and cold reason.Jerningham is a widower. In keeping with his plain, scientific habits; he proposes marriage to ^largaret Allgate, one of his stu­dents, when the two are left alone in his laboratory. Margaret is as lovely of face as she is lovable in- character but of modest attain­ments. Although taken completely unawares, she^accepts her teacher. The marriage^follows shortly after but not without heart-burning and 
doubt on her parti While on her honeymoon in Italy she meets her husband’s two children. ,B«4i are precocious and charming, but Cyril is sensitive, and serious while Viola is full of wit and animal spirits.They return to England, but Margaret finds it difficult ,to adjust herself to the cold impersonal atmosphere of Jerningham’s house and her bluntly-frank stepchildren, almost as old as herself. Viola, who has absorbed the scientific jargon of her father, glories in her paganism, and when . she meets Guy, Margarat’s brother, he is overwhelmed by the freshness and vigor of lstr personality. A sort of attachment grows up between them.Margaret is unhappy in her new home and when she gives birth to a still-born child, she is convinced that her marriage, was a mistake. To add to her mortification, Viola announces that she and Guy pro­pose to take a pre-nuptial and un­chaperoned; walking trip through France, Hespeth, true to his teach­ings, does not object, but Margaret, hurt to the quick, rebels strenuous­ly. Against Viola she. makes no headway, but she almost has her brother convinced of the folly .of the undertaking when the aggres­siveness' of Viola wins him ovei1 and lie reluctantly follows her after a dramatic scene. The ‘.‘honey­moon” proves disastrous. Guy’s false pride and conventional stan-f dards do not satisfy his freedom- loving companion and when Viola meets one of Margaret’s- former admirers, who . happens, to be abroad on a diplomatic mission, the two become close friends arid she dismisses GUy. He returns a complete wreck.To add to the sorrows of the miserable. Margaret,- her stepson upraids her for. having married his father and confesses that lie is desperately and passionately in love with, her. A poignant episode follows in .which,'he, his father and stepmother take, part. He leaves his home but returns just in time to hear that the heart-broken Gtiy has taken his life.“The Age of Reason” begins in a leisurely manner, but acquires momentum and ends in drama. Sir Philip has obviously written a thesis, Science versus Faith, and it is manifest which side Jic favors,
but the case for the opposition is stated with utmost fairness and will be read with interest irrespec­tive of the reader’s personal bias. The novel should make good stage material and Messrs. Metro-Gold- wyn-Mayer will no doubt wish it for their cinema cathedrals.
The former dramatic critic of the New York Times has written a novel of Broadway, Greenwich 
Village and the academic life. Being hjmself a .playwright as well as critic, we are presented with a first-hand picture of stage life.
The story is related in the per­son of Htnry Boardman—evidently the author’s self-portrait—who is , attached to the faculty of Columbia University. Boardman is a young man who views life quite detached from the petty outlook of his fel­lows but is outwardly a good mixer. _ His pen portraits of the Greenwich Village rabble arc ex­cellent and his observations on university life are quite cyni.cal.Eleanor Dandridge,- who. conies from a small university town in the south, where she had known Boardman from childhood, attains immediate success as an actress. After a year on Broadway she re­
turns to her home. Her meta­morphosis from a simple and charming soul to a saddened and suffering one follows a series of unhappy experiences; the death of her father, the suicide of- a sensi­tive young student who finds her. in the arms oi her lover, and her deception by the latter. She re­turns to her work on the stage in a shallow, conventional play, ready to lend her soul and beauty to those whose lives arc ¡sordid (and empty.j Young’s opus leans more to the •lyric than to the dramatic in its treatment. The following passage 
is typical of many throughout the novel:
“Lena stood there. She listened to the silence under the slope. . . . The world seemed stillness and yet all rhythm, rapture 'of flight and quietness; And suddenly in 
the open, under the boughs of a beech tree farther on, we saw the evening star, steadfast and throb­bing, ^it seemed to shine over the world, but most on your own breast.“Lena felt the hour entering into her, and stood there with the knowledge that, some day after­ward, at some .moment on tlie stage, she would feel all her body become this moment ...“She could see herself at some moment in a play, her body lifted with these trees, her mind filled with ¡his quiet and passion; and in the midst of that would - conic the .living idea arising like the star out beyond the edge of the lane thcf.c. And she could hear tinwords rise. to their cicrnal placr could hear herself speak then and, in the pause that followe before the applause began, a lnif in her own soul, a waiting for t wood and the dusk there the moon.”
“The Torches Flare” may nobe a distinguished performance but certainly a satisfying one tothose who love quiet but substan­tial and beautiful prose.“The Agb of. Reason” is written 
by Sir Philip Gibbs and is. pub­lished by vDoublcday, Doran Com­pany of Garden City, N. Y.“The Torches Flare, by StarkYoung, is published by . Charles Scribner’s Sons of New York.
Berkeley, Calif.—The fact that ¦ pre-Christian Babylonia exisTed u/i-' dcr a feudal system similar to that, of Europa and particularly. of Eng-j land •' as late as the seventeenth; century has been established by an'accidental disovery of-a hither­to- unstudied clay tablet in the University of California Museum of Anthropology-.Feudal lords held sway over vast domains of land under such famous kings as Artaxerxes I, Daniils' I (the. Persian) . and Artaxerxes 11, paying taxes of flour, beer, dates, t m.cat or other monetary equivalent | and collecting ; taxes in turn from ; their knights and other landlords.The feudal system was, in some I respects, higher in type than that | of England several centuries lat-» cr, for the roads were in good j enough condition, to make the col-i lection of taxes possible, thus ob­viating the necessity of farming out! taxes as' did early English kings: with their traveling courts.Basis for this picture of Baby­lonia in the fifth century B.C. is ¦ contained in one inscribed clay tab-1 let which has been translated by Dr. Ii. F. Lutz, associate professor 
of - Egyptology and - Assyriology, after .having been 'overlooked for: about 20 years, since it^ presenta-1 tion by Mrs. Phoebe Apperson Hearst, friend of the university.The tablet in question a con­trast between a Babylonia•= knight and his feudal lord, one of the. grandsons of the house ot Maru- shu, providing for the lease of a | tract of land in return for .military I service and taxes. IProfessor Lutz explains that the archives of the house of - Marushu are. well- known by scholars and I that some. 730 inscribed clay tab-J lets now in museums of Constanti-j nople and America liave been found' during the past'i 30 years in the
ruins of the Babylonian city of 
Nippur. But always the spirit ot these, tablets has been misinter­preted, he states, scholars inclin­ing to the belief that they repre­sent the transactions of an ancient banking house—a forgotcn House of Morgan or-Rothschild.
The new tablet, however, with its unmistakable proof of a feudal system, has thrown a new light on all . those old documents and Pro­fessor Lutz says that reinterpVet- ed with this romantic system in mind their meaning becomes more clear.
The tablet itself is about .four, by five inches in area, and an inch thick,- closely inscribed with cunei­form letters on both sides and all the edges. By its testimony a cer­tain Semite gentleman pledged his hand and sword to defend his lord and the king in exchange for ? fief of land that had been tillcc by his grandfather before him. In witness thereof, he impressed the seal of his ring beside that of tlie lord, in the presence of three wit­nesses who also stamped their ring signatures on the tablet.
After _ baking, that tablet was placed in the family archives at Nippur, and 3,000 years later it was uncovered by some specimen hunt­er and later purchased by Mrs. Hearst. Whether the Semite gen­tleman died for his king, or lived to govern his fief for many years, the records do not show.
Professor Lutz points out that this chance discovery, is but • one example of the many startling facts 
still . to be learned about- ancient Babylonia. He: hopes to .make more discoveries next year . dur­ing a contemplated, trip to Bagdag, as exchange professor to the American' University of Archeology.
ON THE PLAID SCREEN
(Continued from page seven): .
THE PITTSBURGH PRESS says that we.“arc a long waj 
from being a ‘threat’ for natipnal championship honors” anc 
I “the annual combat with W. and J. will show whether the prc- 
| season claims will materialize.” We agree with the latter but 
“Do Not Choose'to Speak” on the former.* .* * * .* * *
THE POOL MEN are gradually rounding into shape» for
ja highly promising season. Freshman aspirants-and managers
I are requested to report to Coach Risedorph. . .. ..
THE ANNUAL fall tennis tournament again opens auspi- 
.ciously. It will require co-operation on the part of all the en­
trants to complete the matches before snowball time.* * * * * * *
BY THE WAY! WHAT DO YOU THINK OF FRITZ 
AS A SONG AND CHEER LEADER?
