«^CARNEGIE
TARTAN
CARNEGIE INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY
Volume 54 — Number 21 WEDNESDAY, MARCH 28, 1962
13 Vie For Military Ball Queen
Jan MarkusElizabeth KimKathy MatterPeggy RivaPam ChidesterClaire Ruge
Lee Ann Nelson Sandy Byrne Patricia Jean Murray
mammm Queen Candidates Presented; 
Rjjfi Students Vote April 3
The thirteen candidates for entire ROTC regiment. The cadets 
Military Bail Queen were pre- will vote to select the Honorary 
\ J sented yesterday to the student Colonel, who will reign as Mili- 
body here in the Ski bo Ballroom ! tary Ball Queen and Regimental 
b.v the members of Scabbard and Commander for the coming year. 
Blade. \ The other three girls will fill the
HHBraifl Next week. April 3. a general Queen's Staff positions of Deputy 
student vote will limit the field Regimental Commander. First Vol 
I down to four finalists. Then on tallion Commander, and Second 
J Thursday, the 12th of April, these Batallion Commander, all Honoi- 
fSliiSSsi v"’ J lour wiH be presented to the ary Lieutenant Colonels.
Jeanie KeanLaura VolandJean Jacobs
SpringCarnival
Preparations
Underway
I 1Greek Sing is over and minds 
now race ahead to preparations 
for Spring Carnival which will be 
held May 10-12.
Carnival begins at 4:30 on 
Thursday when the Midway 
opens. Festivities run straight 
through (no classes on Friday) 
until Saturday when the dance 
draws Carnival to a close.
Activities scheduled are as fol- 
p lows:
Friday: Call Day: The queen is 
chosen; special awards are given 
and honoraries make their calls 
for new members. The entertain­
ment for Friday night’s Jazz Con­
cert is still top secret — only 
Chairman Nancy Buchter and 
vice-Chairman Jan Anstatt know. 
One hint to go on though, is it a 
/ well-known group.
Saturday: In the morning are the 
^ fraternity buggy races. In the 
afternoon is the faculty egg throw, 
plank jousting, and sorority re­
lays. The dance which is in Skibo 
begins at 8 and runs until 1. Har­
old Betters (well-known in the 
Pink-Cloud Circles) will play. To 
increase the dancing space, ar­
rangements have been made to 
have the music piped into all 
rooms throughout Skibo’s first 
floor and also, if weather permits,
Tech Men Eligible For 
Ugly Man Contest
Kathy Lizzio as “Viv” and Jim Val as “Phil”—Scotch ’n Soda’s 
talented leads—in a scene rehearsal.
Lizzio, Val Head Cast
S’n S Production ‘Viv’
% onto the patio.
Tradition has been altered 
somewhat this year. Instead of 
having the midway on the cut, 
the booths will be set up in the 
section of Skibo parking lot which 
is across from Schiller. Another 
revision deals with the presenta­
tion of the skits. They will be 
given as usual a week ahead of 
Carnival weekend in front of 
Fine Arts; however, the time is 
set for 4:30 in the afternoon. One 
final reminder, the midway will 
be open all three days of Carnival.
There will be a regular meeting 
of Student Congress today, March 
28, 1962 in the Wherrett Lounge 
of Skibo. It is requested that all 
members be present.
Kathy Lizzio. a sophomore spe­
cial student, has been selected to 
play Vivina La Tour, a glamor­
ous movie actress, in the 1962 
Scotch"’n Soda production, “Viv.” 
Vivis a woman who would be 
unhappy if she were not contin­
ually surrounded by all sorts of 
eccentric characters. In her em­
ploy are Pearl Quince, a tough 
but tender secretary who calls 
herself “Viv’s crying towel"; Mil- 
licent Hotchkiss, a loveable, scat­
terbrained hairdresser; and Scotty 
Buzzell* a lazy, bumbling press 
agent.
( The role of Pearl will be played 
| by Laura Feldman, a freshman 
; music student. Pat Duncan, also
a freshman music major, and Bill 
Law, a sophomore P $- D, are cast 
as Millicent and Scotty.
The men in Viv’s life are Sey­
mour, Phil, and Ralph, her three 
ex-husbands.
Phil, the romantic lead, will be 
played by Jim Val, a senior mu­
sic student. Shelly Kaplan, a jun­
ior P & D, and Bill Reinfeld. a 
senior I.M., are cast as Seymour 
and Ralph.
Also prominent in Viv’s compli­
cated life are Warren Tracy, a 
handsome young movie director, 
and Raymond Capland. a rich pro­
ducer. These roles will be played 
by Ken Matejka, freshman mu- 
¿continued oh paye 8]
tion, why not look in the mirror. 
Then talk one of your friends into 
j running before he realizes that 
! you would make the best choice. 
Pictures will be taken by Alpha 
, Phi Omega on April 14. 
j Ballot box stuffing will not be, 
tolerated but rather it will be en­
couraged. Everyone will be per- 1 
j mitted to vote as often as he 
; wishes at the cost of 1c per vote, 
i This makes it possible for those 
I who are always at their wits end 
deciding whom to vote for in the 
| numerous queen elections to split 
j their votes. The proceeds will be 
' given to Campus Chest to be dis- 
| tributed to worthy charities. A 
large number of candidates 
strongly supported by their spon­
soring organizations will result in 
! an enthusiastic and generous sup- 
| port by the voters,
Evening CIT’s 
Plan Banquet
The traditional Evening Student 
Banquet will be held this year on 
Saturday. May 5th, at the Adams
¦ House. A varied program has been 
! prepared by the Evening Student 
: Council for entertainment. The
¦ guest speaker is Ruth Ramsey. In- 
| eluded for musical enjoyment are 
j the U.S. Steel Male Chorus, fol- 
1 lowed by dancing to the music of
the “Sweet Notes.”
Tickets for the banquet are on 
sale in Mr. McKelwav's office or 
from any student council member. 
Evening students and their fam- 
1 ilies and friends are invited.

---------------------------------------------------

Page 2 — THE CARNEGIE TARTAN — Wednesday, March 28, 1962
YMCA Rotates
Cabinet OfficialsReduced Rate
Travel Offered
UMOCBULLETIN 
BOARD jJ
Alpha Phi Omega is again spon­
soring an Ugly Man on Campus 
contest this year during the week 
of May 7-10. In order to simplify 
the entering procedure, A Phi O is 
arranging to have the ugly photo­
graphs taken on April 14. Any stu­
dent organization wishing to enter 
a contestant must send its name» 
its presidents name and a return Q 
address to U.M.O.C. c/o Alpha Phi 
Omega, Box 282, via campus mail 
before April 7. The name of the 
contestant need not be submitted 
at this time.
Probably the only student or­
ganization on campus that has re­
fused to elect officers is the Cam­
pus YMCA Student Cabinet. 
Elected to the Cabinet by the to­
tal student membership of the 
campus YMCA were Dave Ad­
ams, Bill Kurtz, A1 Pollock, Dale 
Ritchey, and Woody Wells.
When the group met to organ­
ize, the members gelt it would be 
much beter not to have a Presi­
dent and the other usual officers. 
Instead, the Cabinet will meet as 
an Executive Committee, with the 
Chairmanship rotating among its 
members. A1 Pollock was the first 
Chairman, and Woody Wells is 
the current Chairman. Other as­
signments are handled in similar 
fashion, with one of the Cabinet 
members agreeing to take over a 
particular job on a temporary 
basis. He then passes the ball to 
another Cabinet Member after a 
couple of weeks.
Confusing? A little, especially 
to Kay Cassell, the YWCA Pres­
ident who finds herself working 
with a different YMCA President 
every week or two. But surpris­
ingly enough, the scheme is work­
ing, and the Cabinet has been 
quite effective sof ar. Has any 
other organization tried this 
scheme.
Many opportunities for travel 
and study either abroad or in the 
United States are available to 
students through many organiza­
tions offering reduced rates to col­
lege students.
The municipal officials of Fort 
Lauderdale, Florida, are presently 
getting ready for the migration 
of college students during the end 
of March and the early part of 
April. On arrival students are 
greeted at “Hello Booths,” which 
are located on the beach. Here 
the students are issued passes and 
informed of available housing fa­
cilities.
In addition to the thousands of 
students that are visiting Fort 
Lauderdale this spring, there will 
be presidents and deans of sev­
eral colleges and universities. 
These educators will be the guests 
of the city’s leading hotels.
A planning committee has set 
up an interesting and varied re­
creation and entertainment pro­
gram, including fifteen exhibition 
games by the Yankees.
Dr. Clem E. Beninger, chair­
man of the civic planning group, 
stated that the aim of the commit­
tee is to “make the spring visita­
tion of students pleasant for all 
concerned, including our residents 
and adult tourist visitors.”
Europe
The International Air Transport 
Association affords valuable op­
portunities for college staff mem­
bers and students. Under the 
I.A.T.A.’s new resolution, air 
travel to Europe at drastically re­
duced rates on scheduled planes 
will be available to groups of 
twenty-five or more.
Some sample roundtrip fares 
are: $278, New York to London; 
$304, New York to Paris. There is 
no charge for I.A.T.A.’s services.
The “Hartmann Tour" for 1962, 
operated by Wakefield, Fortune 
World Travel of New York and 
London, offers a choice of East- 
bound transatlantic travel either 
by the new luxury ship, the SS 
France, leaving New York on 
June 22nd, or by BOAC jets, de­
parting New York June 27th.
The tour, which includes 59 
days on the continent, includes 
such places as England, Germany, 
the French Riviera, Paris, Greece, 
Italy, Switzerland, Spain, Hol­
land and Austria. The rates for 
these tours are $1875 by air and 
$1905 by sea.
There is also a “Budget edition” 
which omits London, Copenhagen, 
the Rivieria and Madrid. Transat­
lantic travel both ways is by the 
Dutch Student Lines at a cost of 
$1385.
Folders and full details on these 
tours are available from Wake­
field, Fortune, Inc., World Travel, 
15 East 58th Street, New York, 
22, New York, who also feature 
various other student tours.
“Classrooms Abroad” offers op­
portunities to beginning, inter­
mediate and advanced students, of 
German, French, Spanish and 
Italian. This is not merely a tour 
but an opportunity to live with a 
family, and learn their language 
and customs.
Each participant stays in his 
respective country for seven 
weeks, where he also attends 
classes. The student not only 
learns the language in the class­
room, but learns it all during the 
day, when he is speaking with 
the native people of the city in 
which he is staying.
The cost for these seven weeks 
and all transportation is $1150. 
Theri is an additional cost of 
$120 for any student who wishes 
to take a two week tour of coun­
tries speaking the language he has 
learned in the previous seven 
weeks.
Skibo Records
Through the generosity of Bob- 
tone Record Company,, Alpha Phi 
Omega has been able to add to the 
Skibo record collection. These re­
cords, in addition to the ones pro­
cured through the efforts of A Phi 
O in the past month, may be 
checked out for use in the Music 
Room from the Skibo Information 
Desk.
liver a series of six lectures at 
Tech, starting on Saturday, March
For six weeks, Dr. Fisher will 
speak on “Current Developments 
in Electron Microscopy” in Room 
100, Porter Hall from 10:00 a.m. 
to 12:00 noon. The lectures, which 
are sponsored by the metallurgy 
department are open to all inter­
ested persons.
Call Day Awards
Any organization interested in 
making a sail or presenting an 
award at call day, Spring Carni­
val, May 11, 1962 which has not 
yet been contacted by the Call 
Day Chairman may secure a form 
for this purpose at Dean Strick’s 
office. All forms must be re­
turned to his office by April 4, 
1962.
The look of a Coach 
House sport coat is 
natural shouldered and 
traditional. It’s stand 
on cloth, cut and color 
will easily pass the 
purist’s scrutiny. This 
particular Dacron and 
Cotton sport coat is 
$29.95. Available in 
solid colors, glen 
plmds, and Madras 
patterns—one is bound 
to be just right for 
you.
Dr. Fisher Lectures
Dr. Robert N. Fisher of the 
U. S. Steel Corporation’s Edgar 
Bain Laboratory for Fundamental 
Research, Monroeville, will de-
tPjeCoarh iliousc
Traditional Apparel for Men 
5823 Forbes Ave. Squirrel Hill 
Phone JA 1-7600
Open Tuesday evening till 9:00
PRIZES:First Prize: Your choice of TV. Stereo or any reasonable appliance or fixture 
in similar price range.
Second Prize: Your choice of tapes, record albums or other reasonable objects 
not to exceed $25—in price.
RULES:
1) Student groups or organizations eligible to enter contest,
2) Only Marlboro, Parliament, Alpine and Philip Morris packs acceptable.
3} All packs must be turned in to the Philip Morris Campus Representative.
4) All Packs become the property of Philip Morris, Inc.
5) Winner will be notified shortly after the close of the contest.
6) In the event of a tie, drawing will be made to determine the winner.
7) All packs must be turned in by 6 P.M., May 4, 1962.
8) Decision of the judges is final.
9) Any additional information needed call Rudy at HA. 1-1189.
10) Empty packs must be bundled in units of 100s.
WHO WINS:Student groups or organimations submitting: the greatest number of PACKS 
PER MEMBER.
1961, THE COCA COLA COMPANY COCA-COLA ANO COKE ARE REOiÇTERCO TRADEMARK#COPYRIGHT V<
There's nothing like a Coke!
Gef on the BRAND WAGON ...it’s lots of funi
They’re paying 
interest now, 
and it is available 
four times a year. 
Make more money 
that way-can’t 
beat that.
So you 
transferred your 
savings account to 
Union National 
Bank today? 
Why?
Stop at any office of The Union National 
Bank today and get all the details.
THE UNION NATIONAL BANK 
OF PITTSBURGH
Fourth Avenue at Wood Street, 413-415 Federal Street, North Sid* 
4612 Forbes Avenue, Oakland 
1101 Seventh Avenue • 22nd Street at 9th Avenue, Beaver Falla, Pa. 
Tarentum • Koppel • Lower Burrell • Coraopolts, two office*
You can bank with u» by mail
Alt Watches Electroniealiy Timed
EXPERT WATCH AND 
JEWELRY REPAIRS 
23 Oakland Ave. MU 1-6109
Get that refreshing new feeling with Coke!
QUAKER STATE COCA-COLA 
BOTTLING COMPANY 
Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania
Betttaé under authority of 
Stopanyfa Company by

---------------------------------------------------

Wednesday, Marei» %t, — THE CARNEGIE TARTAN — Page S
A "leaf deal of nonsense has been written about educational 
television. Following is my contribution:
Jt has been said that television allots no desirable viewing 
hours to educational and intellectual programs. This is simply 
not so. For instance, you can see '‘The Kant and Hegel Hour” 
every day at 4 a.m. This excellent show is followed at 5 a.m. 
by “Kierkegaard Can Be Fun.” For such lazy scamps as lie 
abed beyond that hour, there is a splendid program on Sunday 
mornings at 7:15 called “Birds of Minnesota, Except Duluth.’* 
So much for the myth that TV gives no prime time to educa­
tional programs. Now let us deflate another canard: that TV 
is not eager to inject intellectual content in all its programs.
If you have sat, as I have sat, with a television planning 
board, you would know that the opposite is true. I was priv­
ileged recently to witness a meeting of two of TV’s topmost 
program developers—both named Binkie Tattersall.
“Binkie,” said Binkie to Binkit^, “if there is one thing I 
am bound and determined, it's that we’re going to have intel­
lectual content in next season’s programs.”
“Right!” replied Binkie. “So let us put on our thinking 
caps and go to work.”
“I forgot thinking cap in Westport,” said Binkie, “but 
I have a better notion: let us light a Marlboro.”
“But of course!” cried Binkie. “Because the best way to 
think is to settle back and get comfortable, and what is the 
cigarette that lets you settle back and get comfortable?”
“I said Marlboro,” answered Binkie. “Weren’t you listening?'! 
“A full-flavored smoke is Marlboro,” declared Binkie. 
“Rich tobacco, pure white filter, a choioe of pack or 1x>k. 
What is better than a Marlboro?”
“A Marlboro and a match,” replied Binkie. “Got one?” 
Binkie had, and so they lit their good Marlboros and settled 
back and got comfortable and proceeded to cerebrate.
“First of all,” said Binkie, “we are going to avoid all the old 
clichés. We will have no domestic comedies, no westerns, no 
private eyes, no deep sea divers, no doctors, and no lawyers/' 
“Right!” said Binkie. “Something offbeat.”
“That’s the word—offbeat,” said Binkie.
They smoked and cerebrated.
“You know,” said Binkie, “there has never been a series 
about the Coast and Geodetic Survey.”
“Or about glass blowers,” said Binkie.
They fell into a long, torpid silence.
“You know,” said Binkie, “there’s really nothing wrong with
3I. it’s 3Il3 i3loi fuli nl3.liotfAt
ADLER introduces the good-tempered cotton sock. Nothing ever gets it down, 
With stripes at the top and reinforced with nylon, it’s a white sock that 
sticks to you the way your little brother used to. Pictured, the Alpine with
the new Shape-Up leg. $1.00. l«£13I.it’s1lofiuliull1nu’ft’ut
ADI-ER’S good-tempered Alpine available at 
KAUFMAN’S, Pittsburgh MARVIN’S. Pittsburgh
. HART’S DEPT. STORE, New Kensington 
BOYER'S DEPT. STORE, Greensburg FRANK’S MEN’S STORE, C harleroi
a cliché situation—provided, of course, it’s offljeat.”
“Right!” said Binkie. “So let’s say we do a series about a 
guy who’s a family man with a whole bunch of lovable kids 
who-plav merry pranks on him.”
“Yeah, and he's also a cowboy,” said Biukie.
“And a deep sea diver,” said Binkie.
“With a law degree,” said Binkie.
“Plus an M.D.,” said Binkie.
“And he runs a detective agency,” said Binkie.
“Binkie,” said Binkie to Binkie, “we’ve done it again I" 
They shook hands silently, not trusting themselves to speak, 
and lit Marlboros and settled back to relax, for Marlljoro is a 
cigarette not only for cerebration, but for settling back with­
in fact, for all occasions and conditions, all times and chines, 
all seasons and reasons, all men and women. « ^2 mm At»««*» 
* * *
This column is sponsored—sometimes nervously—by the 
makers of Marlbtiro, who invite you to try their fine filter 
ciyarettes, available in king-size pack or flip-top box at 
tobacco counters in all jQ stales.
* Detention Home Needs 
Volunteers As AssistantsZagat Defines NSA To Congress
Volunteers are needed for work­
ing with children and teenagers 
at the Juvenile Detention Home 
in Oakland. There is no pay-ex- 
cept the satisfaction that you have 
given something of yourself to 
kids who desperately need your 
help. Working times are 7:30 - 
9:00 p.m. any week night or 2:00 
to 4:00 Saturday and Sunday af­
ternoons. How much time you 
give is up to you. Even a little as 
two hours a month, if it can be 
given regularly, will help.
There are several types of as­
signments open. If you have a 
special skill, talent, or hobby, pro­
grams will be arranged in which 
& you can share your speciality with 
the group. (Crafts, dramatics, 
group singing, story telling, mus­
ical instruments are just a few ex­
amples). For those who have no 
specialized skills, there are many 
opportunities to act as helpers, 
working with the children as they 
work on projects under the super-
vision of a trained instructor. 
Woodshop, cooking, and work in 
the gym are examples.
“Quiet time” assistants are also 
needed who can sit down with the 
youngsters and play checkers or 
dominoes, work on a model, or 
just palin talk. For those who 
would prefer to work with pre­
schoolers, a few assignments are 
available reading, playing, and 
helping to feed the small fry.
If you would like to join those 
already working in this program, 
| notify the Y office, 57 Skibo, and 
a schedule will be set up.
During the March 14, 1962
meeting of Student Congress, Gene 
Zagat, vice-president of the Amer­
ican National Student Association 
was introduced by Bill Ellis. As a 
representative of N.S.A. Gene Za­
gat was sent to Tech to define the 
association’s activities and func­
tions in the hope that the C.I.T. 
Student body would consider 
membership.
N.S.A. is a confederation of over 
400 colleges and universities. Al­
though it is financed partly by the 
colleges and universities (for a 
school such as ours with an en­
rollment of under 35,000, the cost 
would be $80. nationally, and $40. 
regionally) the greater per cent is 
received from foundation grants. 
As an example; of its present bud­
get of $500,000., $20,000. has been 
received from member schools, 
whereas $480,000. has been receiv­
ed from foundations.
N.S.A. operates basically in 
three areas: Student Government 
Aid and Counselling, Services, and 
National and International Work.
In its service function N.S.A. 
serves as a uniting force through 
which schools may receive and 
trade information concerning stu­
dent activities and government.
N.S.A. has tried to benefit stu­
dents by supporting such moves as 
the Student Rate Air-Line Passage, 
discounts in both domestic and 
foreign travel and in Health and 
Casulty Insurance.
N.S.A. serves as the political 
voice of the college students in 
domestic issues such as Civil
! Rights disputes. Also, since it has 
direct contact with students in for­
eign universities, it serves as a 
youth information and idea ex­
change.
Following a short discussion of 
N.S.A., further consideration of its 
merits and applicability to Tech’s 
student government was leit to 
Executive Council.
Nancy Buchter introduced a 
motion to accept the 1962 Spring 
Carnival Budget. The motion was 
passed.
On Campuswith Max Shulman
(Author of “I Was a Teen-age Dwarf’, “The Many 
Loves of Dobie GUlis”, etc.)
EDUCATIONAL TV: ITS CAUSE 
AND CURE
UMCC
IS
COMING

---------------------------------------------------

Page 4 — THE CARNEGIE TARTAN — Wednesday, Mareh 28, 1962
13I.itI’s
Spirit Haunts Site of Old Skibo
The steady hum of conversation is broken 
occasionally by bursts of laughter or a halloo 
to friends across the room. “The party Sat­
urday night at ... ” “But, then, can you 
imagine ...” “Of course there’s little hope, 
but ...” “Why, hello!” Snatches of chat­
ter are heard by anyone not engrossed in 
his own conversation, and the person who 
wanders in alone will soon discover a friend 
.eager to talk about next week’s party, last 
night’s meeting, or the impossible exam just 
completed.
All worthwhile castles have a ghost. 
“Old” Skibo was torn down over two years 
ago, but the spirit of old Skibo seems to 
haunt the site of that much venerated air­
plane hanger which bore the name of a 
Scottish castle.
The spirit thrives in the air of conviv­
iality to which it was accustomed in old 
Skibo and has not yet discovered that a 
new Skibo has been constructed. Instead, 
it lingers in the building which has grown 
on the site of old Skibo promoting and en­
couraging an atmosphere conducive to so­
ciability and reminiscent of coffee breaks 
and “Skibo hours.”
Yes, the Hunt Library, constructed on 
the site of old Skibo is endowed with a very 
real and very active ghost which insists on 
an atmosphere prohibitive to quiet reading 
©r study.
The Library was greeted with great ac-
CURTAIN GOING UP!
By Joey
Is Spirit Enough?
The Hamlet Street Theatre of the Pittsburgh Playhouse 
Is now presenting THE THREEPENNY OPERA by Kurt 
Weill and Bertolt Brecht. In Marc Blitzstein’s adaptation 
much of Brecht’s bitter comment is missing; in William 
Glennon’s direction of the Playhouse production bitterness 
has been replaced with roses and sunshine! The cast is an 
energetic one; but is this enough0 Almost all of the principal 
players are working on different levels of style Mrs. 
Peachum (Barbara Cornett) belching and drawling like an 
A1 Capp character; Lucy Brown (Nanci Kocker) showing 
her teeth and legs while she belts the supposedly pathetic 
BARBARA SONG; Tiger Brown (Richard Galuppi) 
mugging his way through scene after scene and Polly 
Peachum (Judy Knaiz) shying away from the pseudo-melo­
dramatic dialogue.
On the other side of the coin there is John Meyer’s fine 
portrayal of Macheath. Meyer has a fine voice and moves 
with all the grace of the tiger Mack the Knife should have. 
Ewel Cornett, even with a terribly villain-like makeup, is 
the perfect Peachum. His solos in all three finales are splen­
did. The Playhouse rarely sees a singer of his calibre. The 
joy of the evening is Miss Constance Dean who plays Jenny. 
She is a thin, homely woman with an amazingly powerful voice; she 
dances beautifully and is obviously head and shoulders above any 
of the other actors in the cast. Bravos greated her PIRATE JENNY 
in Act Two.
The whores, especially Jane Hill, were uniformly good. I only 
hope that the four members of Mack’s gang will calm their Wed­
ding scene down a bit. The sloppiness of the dinner party did not 
meet up to the rest of the production. But again, they do have spirit 
and their voices fill the theatre^whenever they speak or sing.
So, if you don’t mind not seeing any of Bertolt Brecht, then 
you might enjoy THE THREEPENNY OPERA. It is worth a trip 
to Hamlet Street anyway for the pleasure of watching and hearing 
Miss Dean and James Reed Lawlor deserves a special hand; he 
plays both organ and piano and does so with zest and enthusiasm.
claim last fall for so adequately fulfilling a 
long-felt need on the Tech campus. But, until 
the spirit of old Skibo is encouraged to travel 
across the cut where coffee is to be found, the 
Library serves only as a second-rate “Skibo” 
where open books are placed on the table in­
stead of coffee cups and doughnuts.
When the spirit of old Skibo leaves the 
Library and students begin to realize that the 
Library is a place for serious study or 
leisurely browsing, then perhaps the even 
more unpleasant aspects of student attitude 
toward the Library will also disappear.
In old Skibo the tables became slates 
handy for writing down that formula, line 
of poetry, or latest design and the stock of 
silverware and glasses was constantly dimin­
ishing to reappear in Donner Hall or a 
Shadyside apartment.
This attitude, too, the spirit seems to have 
brought into the Hunt Library. Pages of 
books and entire books are mutilated. Book 
after book mysteriously disappears from the 
reserve room and from the stacks. Tables 
and the little wall space available become 
doodle covered.
Let us hope that the spirit can be en­
couraged not only to move into a new home 
from the library to its rightful haunt, Skibo, 
but can also, in the process, be taught that 
disrespect for property is not “smart” nor 
“the thing to do.”
Comments On 
Cong. Walter; 
Letter Writing
Tartan Wastes 
Space On Walter
Editor, The Tartan,
I have just read the article by 
Congressman Walter of Pennsyl­
vania dealing with the House 
Un-American Activities Com­
mittee (HUAC). At first it struck 
me as being ludicrous than an 
entire page of a college period­
ical (excluding the advertise­
ment of the Hagan Company, 
which is obviously Un-American 
because it stresses the individual 
and his rights, i.e.—the right to 
be different) should be given 
over to the rantings of such an 
indignant rightist as this man 
Walter. However, I soon realized 
that this tidy bit of propagandiz­
ing (obviously communistic) 
using a definition to which I’m 
sure even Walter will agree— 
that which tends towards a 
weakening and subversion of the 
ideals upon which this nation 
was founded, would go un­
answered. This, then, is the pur­
pose of my letter.
For the record, this committee 
has not only distributed more 
copies of Congressional reports 
and agenda, but has ruined more 
reputation^, squandered more 
money uselessly, disgraced and 
alienated more people than any 
other committee or indivi­
dual in history, with the pos­
sible exceptions of the Spanish 
Inquisition and the late now 
deified-patron-saint of the com- 
[continued on page 6j
“Our youth now Love luxury. 
They have bad manners, con­
tempt for authority. They show 
disrespect for elders and love 
chatter in place of exercise. They 
contradict their parents, chatter 
before company, gobble-up their 
food, and tyranize their teach-
Looking Forward
The American 
Hysteria
By Allan J. Topol
The American hysteria consists of a clamoring for total 
victory in a divided world with whose division we must 
peacefully exist. President Kennedy pointed out in a speech 
at Chapel Hill, N. C. that we will meet neither total victory 
nor total defeat. Yet when this intermediate state of peaceful 
co-existence means the uneasy peace of the cold war, many 
Americans in a search for national security have challeneg- 
ed our foreign policy.
There are three questions to be considered here. First, 
what are the problems that require settlement? Second, have 
we any means to settle these? Third, if no means are availa­
ble, what then will the result be?
The answer to the first question is a very certain yes. We 
are engaged in a struggle with world communism which has 
led to numerous problem areas requiring settlement. Most 
Prominent among these is Berlin with its wall dividing east 
and west. There seems to be no end to the incidents arising 
in this city whether they involve the shooting of British cit­
izens or the Soviet’s efforts to jam supposedly free air cor­
ridors. In Southeast Asia we face continual Communist in­
filtration and a program of aggression ranging from internal 
subversion to external attack. The number of U. S. troops 
in this area is constantly increasing. In Cuba we watched 
what began as a people’s revolution emerge into that na­
tion’s dominance by Soviet Russia.
At the root of all of these problem areas is the bi-polar 
nature of world politics. This division of power will continue 
to produce chises so long as Communism attempets to fulfill 
what it considers to be its historic mission, that of world 
domination.
Turning now to the second question, what means do we 
have to settle these problems? Here the regrettable answer 
is “none.”
It is enormously difficult to make peace. We have been negotiat­
ing for nearly twenty years without the slightest measure of success. 
Before we can even consider the chances of having a treaty which 
would be honored, we must consider that in reality no treaty can be 
negotiated.
In all past times when negotiations did not succeed, war was em­
ployed as essential to the relations of mankind. Yet in our age war 
would be both too dangerous and too useless to be employed. No one 
would win a nuclear war. Those who would survive the immediate 
death by bombs or starvation, would face the long range dangers of 
radiation. The possibility of limited warfare has been suggested; yet 
the dangers of this getting out of hand are too great.
Now we turn to the third question, what then are the results? 
We shall be living somewhere between a war that cannot be fought 
and a peace that cannot be achieved. We should however draw a 
limit as to how much we can tolerate before we will be forced to 
risk the possibilities of war.
We will be forced to endure a long struggle between the West­
ern and Communist worlds. It will be a struggle in which we have no 
reliable way of settling issues. Yet we must not let oujr own frustra­
tion or confusion destroy us.
Pr.
rates
oeare
ial
m)
bout 450 B.C. 
on the edi- 
ge of the
»‘‘CARNEGIE
TARTAN
CARNCOIE INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY
Offices: Skibo, Room 50, Forbes Avenue, Pittsburgh 13, Pa. Office 
phone, MU. 2-4557; Executive Editor, MU. 1-6550; Business Manager, 
MU. 1-2990 and MU. 2-9076; Advertising Manager, MU. 3-0460. Pub­
lished weekly during the school year except holidays, and examination 
periods by the students of Carnegie Institute of Technology, Pgh. 13.
Second Class Postage Paid at Pittsburgh. Pa.
Represented for national advertising by National Advertising, inc.
Annual Subscription Rate: $2.00
Editor-in-Chief..............................Sally Ganong Farrell
Executive Editor ...................................... .Allan Kullen
Associate Editor ............................Martin Ackermann
Business Manager ............................................Phil Chau
Advertising Manager...........................................Phil Chau
News Editor ..................................................Elaine Grumer
Features Editor ...............................................Jan Geisler \
Sports Editor...................................................... John Blue
Layout Editor .............................................Fritz Klinke
Copy Editor .....................................................Carol flosken
Secretarial Editor........................................Pattie .Michael
Circulation Editor .........................................Anne Moser
Photography Editor ....................................Gerald Skalka
Assistant News Editor...................................Colin Jones
News Staff: Mike Nelson. Sandy Klein. Doris Bell. B. J. Zimmcwicz, Mark Appel«
baum. Mary Ferguson. Jay F.llen Lapidus, Paul Carnahan. Joyce Holy, Kris Kclman,
Marty Moore. Margie Park, Fay Landau. Gladys Stalln*ky • , -
Features Staff: Margie Park. Marney Gilboy, Betsy Sheplcr. Sojidra Pt*rel!is. Marlene 
VVitman, Sandy Lancaster, Jan EngJemati, Andrea Nother. Marion MulUgnn, Mary 
Dunning. Karen Smith. Irene Giandbeig. Cathy O'Dea.
Business and Advertising Staff: Anne Moser, PTill Chau, Cliarl«* HoFook, Larry 
Gaflfin. Bill Froelich. Ellie Wiseman, Allan Pollock. Jane Klein. Miron Strati'. 
Circulation Staff: Mike Greenawalt, George KahJ. Tom Joluipon. Ginny Uli.sp. 
Secretarial Staff: Mary Breitenstein, B. J. ^Mnlwicz, Mirtsim Gitle^pie. Pat Bogfis 
Copy Staff: Margie Park Pat Michael, Lynn Pasternak, Gale Newcomb, Gcoigia
White. Judy Denberg, Miriam Gillespie. Barry Shane.
Lajuut Staff; Richard Straus, Alan Pollock, Nancy Cameron, Mike McCoy.

---------------------------------------------------

Wednesday, March 2«, 1962 — THE CARNEGIE TARTAN — Page 5
SIC FLICS
;*i»A8SS < ¿o:- '.'- ..Sifc .
For Shoes See . . »WfiLLY'S
SHOE STORE
lofunA ADL1A Eit f1R ’r3 dLf1R 
U. S. KEDS 
coefoR ’r3 hgLeAD1-f ADL1A
3612 FORBES AVE. (Opposite Strand Theater) 
Open Friday Night ‘till 9 P.M.
SÍ33335?22223a23;:23223i:3a2::2:^233383233333a:íaü3!3333333333Íáaaá333Íí3335áaI#
If I Were President... 
J. C. Warner
Dr. Morgan Gives Lecture on Sex To TX
Dr. Morgan, Head of the Bureau 
of Measurement and Guidance, 
spoke last Thursday at the Theta 
Xi House.
His talk concerned the psy­
chological and physical develop­
ment of humans as sexual beings. 
Dr. Morgan said that the shape 
of an individual’s sex life de­
pends on a moral decision he 
makes on the basis of his past. 
This decision. Dr. Morgan con­
tinued, governs the individual's 
response to any given situation, 
including the growth of guilt 
feelings and his reaction to his 
parents and his society.
Summer Jobs in EUROPE
THE 'new' WAY TO 
*’ SEE and 'sImp* EUROPE
SPECIALIZING in
k1Ntivp’r A’E’tIw,
For Summer Jobs or Tours Write; 
American Student Information 
Service,
22, Avenue de la Liberte, 
Luxembourg-City,
Grand Duchy of Luxembourg
For Quality 
and Selection
See Our Display of
_______________________I
^ Pipes and Pipe Tobaccos ^
s ^Briar Bowl S
3725 Forbes Ave. $
$ Oakland Pgh., Pa.
V S
CAREERS IN ENERGY
With
HUMBLE
OIL & REFINING COMPANY
America's Leading Energy Company
• CHEMICAL
• CIVIL
• ELECTRICAL
• MECHANICAL
• PETROLEUM
• ALL OTHER
ENGINEERS
INTERESTED IN DISCUSSING PROFESSIONAL 
CAREER OPPORTUNITIES IN OIL AND GAS 
PRODUCTION AND NATURAL GAS PROCESSING
lir.’W. lisspap us’Wpypr. LEEIWpt Eit ovviIr.ypr.
21 GREAT TOBACCOS MAKE 20 WONDERFUL SMOKES!
AGED MILD, BLENDED MILD - NOT FILTERED MILD-THEY SATISFY
By Paul B. Farrell, Jr.
Beginning this week this column will appear regularly as 
a commentary on the future of Carnegie Institute of Tech­
nology. The articles will be written from a hypothetical 
position — as the new president of Carnegie. The articles 
will appear in the first person and present tense. The purpose 
will be to emphasize the importance of today’s decisions in 
the relationship to the responsibilities our university must 
0 assume for the next century.
The success of the inseparable roles of the individual' 
citizen and Jiis twenty first century will be largely dependent 
upon the ideas and visions of today’s university leaders. 
This individual citizen is a student in our university now, 
and our university has a great responsibility to him and to 
society—a responsibility which must be accepted today. P.B.F.
1965: Ne one will deny that the history of our university during 
^'^the past decade and a half has been focused about a dynamic leader 
.— John Christian Warner. This period will mark the turning point 
in Carnegie’s history.
Dr. Warner’s presidency may be viewed in a multitude of 
dimension« that have developed an outstanding technical school into 
the nucleus of a great university. His leadership has meant a 
doubling in the value of the university; not just in a material sense, 
but in its standards as a community of scholars, teachers, and stu­
dents. At the same time a unity of purpose, so essential to a uni­
versity community, has been by the various interdisciplinary pro- 
o grams. Textiles, Chemistry, Graphics, and Printing are no longer 
” isolated, but joined to complement the activities of students, faculty, 
and research alike.
The development program was guided to a rapid success by Dr. 
Warner. An activities center, a dramatic arts building, the engineering 
and science hall, the various dormitories, and our library have made 
our progress physically possible.
Of course, the greatest accomplishment of the period was un­
doubtedly the restructuring of the Board of Trustees. Within this 
new framework of national leadership our prestige is expanding 
0 throughout the country. But more important the new trustees repre-' 
sent a broader national purpose in directing our university. A pur- 1 
pose we now find reflected in our educational philosophy, linking ; 
more closely the university our society and the individual.
Yet a long list of Carnegie’s progressive steps in the past fifteen 
years fails to characterize the man behind these ideas. ‘Jake’ Warner 
has been a tireless leader constantly active on campus and throughout 
the world. His influence has been equally felt in Pittsburgh, Pakis­
tan, India, and the A.E.C. It has been difficult for those around 
him to match the pace of this dynamic quarterback of Carnegie; and 
^ it will be difficult to match it in the future. His exemplary character 
and personality have been a high standard for his associates.
‘Jake’ Warner has been at once a powerful president and a warm 
person. The extensive organization of the university never out­
weighed the sensitive concern he constantly had for the individuals 
on campus — a green freshman, the young instructor, or an ener­
getic dean. This faith in the individual and love of the university 
have been indeed complementary in John Christian Warner, the 
focus of Carnegie’s turning point as a citadel of higher education.
Our future owes an enormous debt of gratitude to ‘Jake’ for his 
P dedication as a responsible scientist, educator, and leader.
WllïlIlâBÎÎÏlïïÎÎBBÏiiiÎiBÏÏàiÎÎllÎïïlIBBBBÎÏÏBBÏÏÏÏfiâBiïiiïÏBÏÏÏBÎiBÎllÏBÎÏÏÏÏii
MONDAY, APRIL 9th 
HUMBLE PRODUCTION DEPARTMENT 
WILL BE ON CAMPUS TO INTERVIEW
j, j i KING“If it’s all right with you Captain, 
I think I’ll drop R.O.T.C.”IGAI^ETTES

---------------------------------------------------

Fa*e € — THE CARNEGIE TARTAN — Wednesday. March 28, 1962
HUAC Activities Hurt America
[continued from page 4] 
mittee, Senator Joseph Me- j 
Carthy.
Walter’s statement that “to the 
extent that the American people 
are informed about Communism ' 
(and, I think it rational to add 
Socialism) “our country is indebt­
ed in very large part to the Com­
mittee on Un-American Activities 
and the members of Congress who 
have served on it through the 
years” is more a pitiable and 
tragic commentary on both the 
committee and the American pub­
lic than a reason for pompous 
boasting on his part. I seriously 
doubt whether Walter knows the 
differentiation between Commu­
nism, Socialism, Capitalism or true 
Democracy.
As for Walter’s pride in the 
HUAC’s legislative performance, 
may I'remind Mr. Walter as well 
as other HUAC proponents that 
the original aim of said commit­
tee at its inception in 1938 was to 
investigate—
a) the extent, character, and 
objects of Un-American propa­
ganda activities in the United 
States
b) the diffusion within the 
U.S. of subversive and Un- 
American propaganda that is in­
stigated from foreign countries 
or of a domestic origin and at­
tacks the principle of the form 
of government as guaranteed 
by our Constitution.
Nothing was said or implied as to 
the legislative powers of HUAC. 
Indeed, its first chairman, Mai'tin 
Dies, stated that attempts of legis­
lation “might jeopai'dize funda­
mental rights far more important 
than the objective we seek.”
Walter’s laconic remarks about i 
criticism levied at HUAC by the 
Communist Party is indeed far­
fetched. Why should the Party | 
strike a blow against a time- 
proven and overly helpful ally? If ; 
the aims and tactics of the U.S. i 
branch of the Party are a sub­
version of American ideals and j
opponents to HUAC “professional 
Jews,” and blasted a Quaker 
group for hiring a woman who 
had pleaded the Fifth Amendment 
before a Congressional Committee.
Walter ends his expose with a 
truly horrifying promise — that 
HUAC “will go about its work of 
finding constitutional, legislative 
means to cope with the problems 
Krushchev creates for this country 
through his control of the Com­
munist Party. It will also continue 
to carry out its function of giv­
ing the American public reliable 
information on the nature of these 
problems.” For the sake of the 
nation, the world and the future, 
I sincerely hope that this promise 
is more like an unfulfillable cam­
paign promise than a statement 
which will prove to be true.
In closing, I would make a mo­
tion to the American public— 
Be is moved that the $331,000 
budget of the HUAC be divided 
as follows:
$330,999 be re-apportioned to 
education or to medical re­
search, and
$1 be left as a perpetual re­
minder to the American public
of both their self-enslavement 
and their self-liberation.
Do I hear a second?
Marvin S. Reich
Tartan Improves 
Under Farrell
Editor, the Tartan:
The hyphen introduced into the 
Editorship in Chief has proved to 
be a vital conjunction. It is a 
matter of continuous wonder to 
me how the Ganong-Farrell com­
bination has succeeded, at last, in 
doing so many things better than 
before.
The last three issues of “The 
Tartan” have been oystanding. 
Exceptionable things have, thank­
fully, been said, phrased well and 
expi’essed responsibly. The Tartan 
has become a good newspaper. Mr. 
Topol’s opinions are, if didactic, 
at least entertaining which is, I 
suppose, what opinions should be. 
Mr. Paul Farrel’s guest-editorials, 
well argued and idealistic, are 
certainly the antithesis of apathy 
in a most educated form. Student 
Congress and International Club 
have both received wider atten­
tion. And this can only be laud­
able.
Perhaps the best of the inno-
vations, however, v/ere the Con­
gressmen’s Articles. Too frequent­
ly these arguments do not reach 
<he public. The presentation of 
“Private Members’ Bills” is in the 
best of traditions, and certainly 
the House Committee on Un- 
American Activities is often a 
sorely misunderstood organiza­
tion! These pieces would have 
done credit to any publication 
and thanks must be given to the 
vision which included them here.
The achievements are many. It 
is therefore a great disappoint­
ment that the editorship, which, 
when, in the right hands, has 
shown such tremendous potential, 
is to be replaced by a committee. 
Just when horizons are being 
reached, a stifling influence is to 
be introduced.
The Tai'tan is still small enough 
for one person to handle. Stu­
dent committees at Tech usually 
result in one of the following: 
eithe rthey become overly con­
servative, with p net dilution of 
vision and bias, or else they be­
come an excuse for reduced con­
tribution by the separate mem­
bers.
At this time, both outcomes 
would be an indescribable pity. 
May we not have this matter re­
considered, or at least explain­
ed?
Mike Adler
Editor’s Note:
The committee you refer to is 
the Editorial Board which will 
write only Editorials. The Editor- 
in-Chief will formulate policy and 
direct the news aspect of the 
paper as always. It is hoped that 
this wilt provide more variety in 
editorials and at the same time 
maintain the quality you now find 
in The TARTAN.
On Writing 
Editorials
Editor, the Tartan:
Writing editorials and letters to 
the editor has always been a 
pastime with a few select per­
sons in our society for at least the 
last hundi-ed years. If nothing else, 
this foi'm of expression does pro­
vide an outlet for those with a 
compulsion to speak out, even if 
they put their foot in their re­
spective mouths.
However, with the coming of 
age of a new giant in journalism, 
what was once a pastime is an 
art. We are naturally all the bet- 
[coniinued on page 7]
disunity of Ameiicans, tha HUAC 
has aided it far and above that 
aid x'eceived by any “pink” or 
“fellow-traveler” to come before 
the HUAC in its putrid career. 
Who else has so alienated the 
concepts of individualistic thought 
and expression, or the Fifth 
Amendment — and by so doing, 
split the American public into the 
outcast and the fearful, the hated 
idealist and the smug committee- 
baiter, the frustrated intellectual 
and the enraptured ikon-wor­
shipping sub-moron?
Finally, a brief report of the 
racial and religious views held by 
this Congressional bastion of 
Americanism — Francis E. Walter. 
He has been in the House since 
1932. Co-authoring the black page 
of immigration history known as 
the Walter-McCarran Act (1952), 
he has attacked institutions from 
the National Council of Christian 
Churches to the Federal Bar As­
sociation to the Fund for the Re­
public. He has a strong hatred 
of Communists and foreign-born. 
Anyone familiar with the show 
FINIAN’S RAINBOW might recall 
the Walter-like Billboard Raw- 
kins’ line, “My family’s been 
havin’ trouble with immigrants 
even since they moved to this 
country” as typical of Walter’s 
attitude. Walter has called Jewish
hotel
WEBSTER HALL
You’ll rate with your date...
For a meal or just 
a snack-put Hotel 
Webster Hall on your 
close-to-campus entertain­
ment schedule.
tatel Wdwtoo -Hal
«^^«CARNEAEGI S«C T«RC A«U«CC«O
An ethylene plant in Texas; a steam power station 
in Brazil; a hydroelectric plant in the Pacific North­
west; an oil refinery in Canada; in Maine, the 
world’s first commercial Chemi-Groundwood pulp 
mill; a phenol plant in California; oil refineries in 
Italy and Australia — these are some of the recent 
projects designed and constructed by Stone & 
Webster Engineering Corporation.
The Corporation also has pioneered in engineer­
ing and construction for nuclear projects.
During 73 years of growth and achievement, the 
primary function of Stone & Webster Engineering 
Corporation has always been to render highly techni­
cal, professional engineering service to its clients.
The Corporation has opportunities for a limited 
number of new engineering graduates who wish to 
participate in the engineering and construction of 
projects in every branch of the steam power, nuclear 
power, industrial, petroleum, petrochemical and 
chemical fields.
If you have the personal and technical qualifica­
tions required — if you look forward to advance­
ment limited only by your own ability — if you're 
interested in the idea of becoming a pacemaker in 
your engineering generation — we invite you to get 
in touch with us at 49 Federal Street, Boston, Mass.
Our Employment Representative is coming to your 
campus on Your Placement Office will give
you details.
Ask your Placement 
Office for a copy of 
our booklet "Stone 
& Webster and You "
« Plmbureh 13, P«. 
MAyftowwr 1-7700STONE & WEBSTER
New York, 90 Broad Street
Engineering Corporation
Boston, 49 Federal Street
ChicagoHoustonSan FranciscoLos AngelesSeattleTorontoCalgary

---------------------------------------------------

“O.K., girls. When they 
reach the third floor, we 
let go with the fire hose
You guys go wherever you want. 
I’m going where the girls are.”
4"When / was a freshman, the seniors won. 
When / was a sophomore, the seniors won. 
When / was a junior, the seniors won. 
Now this."
f-------------------------------------------------------------------—-----
«^CA^RN E^GIR «SCTUO FTHUS
Wednesday, March 2S, 1962 — THE CARNEGIE TARTAN — Pape 1
Technical Features 
Tau Beta Pi In March ,
[continued from page 6] 
ter for this change, and we look 
to this savior for guidance. I will 
here mention a few of the fine 
points that the editorialist of the 
new school must know and ob- 
f frvel
With subject one need not con­
cern oneself unduly, since in the 
end it is the writing and not what 
is written about that counts. In 
fact one is probably better off 
with a subject that he knows no­
thing about. Expression will be 
thereby unhindered by embarras­
sing knowledge. For example, an 
^txcellent topic for myself, an en­
gineers, might be to compare Car­
negie architectural students to 
Frank Lloyd Wrights, with the 
students running a far second. One 
should never fear being found out. 
Didn't H. L. Mencken make a 
great success of the Bathtub Hoax? 
In his own words, “Americans are 
gullible.” Or something to that ef­
fect.
^ A brief word about quotes. They 
•are to be used liberally and indis­
criminately, since they back up 
one’s hypothesis merely by associ­
ation with the quoted authors. 
Quotes are also timesaving, for 
someone 'else is doing the editor­
ialists’s thinking. He conveys an 
expression of piety, never a bad 
achievement, by deferring to the 
greater wisdom of his sources.
Consider my quote of the third 
,-oaragraph. It is superfluous, since 
Vt had already stated what I quoted 
from Mencken. Though it adds no 
new information, it is impressive 
and lends prestige to my point.
The use of words is important, 
but at the same time easy to as­
similate. Use often such words as 
“oblivion,” “technology,” “contra­
diction,” “responsibility;” “uni- 
ique,” etc. Take the use of as­
-Slack Reviews 
Two Periods of 
Wolfe’s Novels
Professor Rdbert C. Slack will 
discuss the novels of Thomas 
Wolfe Tuesday, April 3, at 11:30 
^a.m. in the Fine Arts Theatre. For 
'ft.he concluding assembly of the 
English Department’s lecture ser­
ies, he will talk on the two periods 
of Wolfe’s work.
Wolfe’s first two books, LOOK 
HOMEWARD, ANGEL and OF 
TIME AND THE RIVER, deal 
with his search for a father. The 
second cycle arises from the first, 
but with a new attitude Wolfe 
looks into the future, not the past. 
The novels of this cycle are THE
* WEB AND THE ROCK and YOU 
CAN’T GO HOME AGAIN.
The English discussion meeting 
to follow last week’s lecture on H. 
L. Mencken by Professor Donald 
M. Goodfellow will be held tonight 
at 7:30 in the Skibo Party Room. 
This meeting had previously been 
scheduled for last night.
Homecoming 
Unites 1912 Grads
The 1912 graduating class of 
Carnegie Institute of Technology 
will hold its 50th Anniversary Re­
union at Carnegie Tech’s 1962 
Homecoming June 8 and 9.
The class will be the special 
guests of Carnegie Tech president, 
Dr. J. C. Warner, at a luncheon on 
Friday, June 8, and the class re- 
® union dinner will be held at the 
University Club on Saturday, June 
9.
All members of the class of 
1912, both day and evening stu­
dents, are invited to attend the 
special Homecoming activities ir 
their honor. More information or 
the planned activities for the 
Golden Anniversary celebratioi 
can be obtained from the Alumn
similate above. It should read “as­
similate into one’s style of writ­
ing;” but no matter for the use.j 
the very using is most important. : 
One’s words should be picked at 
least a degree below his quoted
sources, again to defer to their 
status.
Catchy titles are very good, if 
one has the time and ingenuity to 
produce them. I might have called 
this piece“ So you want to write 
editorials?”, but having not the 
time or ingenuity, I settled on the 
present title.
A final comment on style in 
general. Never, never make a 
strong or explicit point in a con­
troversy. Always imply. Never af­
firm or deny, for in implication 
and not explication lies the salva­
tion of the new editorialism. The 
vagueness of the writing can at 
worst make a person doubt his 
own intelligence, rarely that if the 
writer. The printed word will gen­
erally be taken as law.
Having exhausted my store of 
quotes, implications, slanted 
words, and unfamiliar topics for 
one day, I must desist. I hope this 
had been an aid to the unenlight­
ened.
“ ... to foster a spirit of liberal 
culture in the engineering colleges 
of America.” This quote, from the 
Preamble to the Constitution of 
Tau Beta Pi, is a fitting descrip­
tion of the goals of the national 
engineering honorary as well as 
the Carnegie Technical. This 
month both organizations are 
undertaking to accomplish their 
purpose together. The March issue 
of the Technical now on sale is 
entirely devoted to the articles and 
editorial material written by the 
members of Tau Beta Pi.
This issue contains four articles. 
One of these is written by a wom­
an physics major, Marcia Naomi 
Feinbaum, who is a holder of the 
woman’s badge of Tau Beta Pi. 
Her article, entitled “Van Allen 
Belt,” discusses theories dealing 
with the trapped particles sur­
rounding the earth, and utilized 
the results of the second Soviet 
space probe and Explorer IV.
Allen Washburn is the author of 
“Game Theory: Heads You Might 
Win.” This is a topic which is be­
ing taken quite seriously by 
modern-day eonomists, matemati- 
cians, military strategists, and 
philosophers.
subject of an article by Theodore 
Cadman. “EVOP” deals with the ! 
study of the instigation of small 
changes in two or three phases of 
operating conditions in order to 
approach optimum operation in 
manufacturing processes.
The reduction of airpollution, an 
ever-present nuisance in Pitts­
burgh, is discussed by Kearns Pol­
lack. This article considers the eco­
nomic, social, and technical aspects 
of the subject.
BUY
YOUR
THISTLE
PROFESSIONAL TYPING — HA. 
1-1456. On electric typewriter, 
reasonable rates. Themes, Theses, 
Manuscripts, Term Papers, Ap­
plications, etc. Punctuation and 
spelling errors corrected.
F. A. Festival
|Invites 
Contestants
The College of Fine Arts, (\>r- 
negie Institute cf Technology is 
now accepting entries for the 
Second Annual Carnegie Awards 
Festival in music, drama, and 
dance to be held May 4 and 5. En­
tries will be accepted until Apiil 6.
The Festival will feature 117 
classes of competition and w'ill in­
clude a special division for schools 
as well as. sections for choirs, en- 
; sembles, precussion, drama, and 
dance.
The purpose of the two-day /es­
tival, organized last year, is to fos­
ter artistic advancement through 
| performance, evaluate per for-
; mance, and recognize and reward 
| outstanding performance.
Trophies, medals, cash scholar­
ships in open classes, and certifi- 
| cates of merit will be awarded to 
those judged outstanding at a Car- 
I negie Awards Festival Concert to 
| be held Saturday, May 26, at 8:00 
p.m. in the Carnegie Music Hall.
Entry forms and an information 
booklet can be obtained from Mr. 
Philip B. Catelinet, executive sec- 
I retary, Carnegie Awards Festival, 
; Carnegie Institute of Technology, 
; Pittsburgh 13, Pa.
William H. Albright 
“Fizzle” ’63“Evolutionary Operation” is the
LUCKY STRIKE 
presents;gnlbP1fDD.Li“SPRING MADNESS
GO NEAR THE WATER. Spring is the time when students start thinking about 
water fun. We say: Splash up a storm. Have a lark. But please be careful. Each 
year, a few careless students get water on their Luckies. Imagine their remorse! 
Imagine yours if you were to spoil a Lucky-that great cigarette that college 
students smoke more of than any other regular. So have a swell time at your 
favorite watering hole this spring. And keep your Luckies dry.
CHANGE TO LUCKIES ^UL OIS RTNI S^RSI YTC ^ Ak^UOIi
© aV r. c«.Product cf <J& c '‘/m* \%$%\ >iis our middlenamt

---------------------------------------------------

JPage 8 — THE CARNEGIE TARTAN — Wednesday, Mare)» 2S, 1
Enthusiastic Cast
Rehearses “Viv:
[continued from page 1] 
sic major, and Steve Harr, senior
I.M.
Figuring into Viv's social world 
are Bebe Ste. Claire, a New York 
dowager, and Monica Del Mar, a 
rival actress. Regina Ress, soph­
omore year humanities major, and 
Adina Rosenfeld, sophomore gen­
eral studies, are cast as Bebe and 
Monica.
Featured in the cast is Ara 
Scelsi, sophomore general studies 
major who portrays the Head 
Waitress of the Balalaika Restaur­
ant.
Dancers in the show are Mindy 
Davis, and Liz Kim, sophomore 
P & D’s; and Dale Kubaneek, 
freshman P & D., and Sandy 
Perellis, senior P & D.
Chorus members include Ruth 
Kibler, senior P & D; Sandy 
Stone, sophomore music; Carole 
Haber, Sue Godin and Karen 
Valen, sophomore humanities ma­
jors; Carol Skloven, reshman mu­
sic, am' Peggy Riva and Wendy 
Bers, sophomore business study 
majors.
Also Neal Huguley, sophomore 
music; Ned Garnhart, sophomore 
P & D: Bill Carlson, senior chem­
ical engineer; and Ken Turaa, 
junior music.
Everyone conected with the 
writing and preparation of “Viv” 
has agreed that this year’s cast 
is one of the finest ever assem­
bled for a Scotch 'n‘ Soda show. 
The cast, too, expressed enthu­
siasm about “Viv” after its first 
rehearsal this past Monday, with 
musical director Dave Stock.
IIP Competition 
A bout Disarm ament
A competition has been an­
nounced by the International In­
stitute for Peace for the best pa­
per on the economic effects of 
disarmament.
The papers should be from 9,000 
to 15,000 words but can be longer 
or shorter if the theme so re­
quires. The expositions must be 
scientifically founded, the analysis
¦ backed up by concrete facts and 
| the conclusions based on objec­
tive arguments.
Papers should be sent to the 
International Institute for Peace, 
Mollwaldplatz 5, Vienna IV, Aus­
tria in three copies by May 15, 
1962. First prize will be $1000, 
second prize will be $500. and 
two third prizes will be $250 sch.
Soltan Named 
Visiting Prof
A noted Polish architect, Jerzy 
W. Soltan, has been named visiting 
Andrew Mellon Professor at Tech. 
Mr. Soltan will be on the Tech 
campus at various times during 
the month of March. On Thursday, 
March 15, he delivered a lecture 
on “Some Aspects of Scale and 
Proportion - Evaluating Corbus­
ier’s ‘Modular’.”
Mr. Soltan was born in Prezma, 
Latvia and studied at the Poly- 
technical School. He first receiv­
ed recognition for his Health 
Centre in Wilno, Poland, for which 
he was awarded a prize in 1938. 
He has been a professor in the 
Academy of Fine Arts in Warsaw 
since 1949.
His major works include the 
Central Stadium in Warsaw, sev­
eral low income housing projects, 
the Sports Centre Warsaw — 
Makotow, for which he received 
first prize in a competition for de­
sign, — the Polish National Pav- 
ilian for the Brusses’s World Fair 
in 1957 and several other commer­
cial buildings.
He was a visiting critic in 1959- 
60 in the Graduate School of De­
sign at Harvard, and this year he 
is a professor of architecture at 
Harvard. He is a member of the 
Union des Artistes Modernes,
How would 
you forecast 
your next 
few years?
Today, the young man planning his life realizes 
as never before that in today’s world his own 
future is tied inevitably to America’s future. 
How can he serve both?
“Many college graduates, both men and women, 
are finding a rewarding answer on the Aero­
space Team — as officers in the U. S. Air Force. 
Here is a career that is compelling in its chal­
lenge and opportunity. And it is a way of life
that holds the unsurpassed satisfactions that 
come with service to country.
As a college student, how can you 
become an Air Force Officer?
If you have not completed Air Force ROTC, 
Officer Training School provides an opportu­
nity to qualify for a variety of vitally needed jobs 
in the Aerospace Age. A graduate of this three- 
month course earns a commission as a second 
lieutenant. Also open to college men is the 
Navigator Training program.
For full information — including the chance to 
obtain graduate degrees at Air Force expense — 
see the Air Force Selection Team when it visits 
your college. Or write: Officer Career Informa­
tion, Dept.SC23, Box 805, New York 1,N. Y.
nSAS oIt hitWp
E&S Grants Received, 
Aid Research & Study
Various departments of the Col­
lege of Engineering and Science 
have received grants totaling $55,-
000 for research and study.
The metals research laboratory 
received a grant of $26,300 from 
the National Science Foundation 
which will be used for research on 
“Imperfections in Alkali Halides,” 
under the direction of Charles L. 
Bauer, assistant professor of 
metallurgical engineering. The 
National Science Foundation also 
granted the departments of chem­
istry, metallurgy, and physics ap­
proximately $15,000 for the “Un­
dergraduate Science Education 
Program.”
The program has as its objec­
tives the development of superior 
students of the sciences in their 
understanding of research investi­
gative procedures and scientific 
methods as well as concepts and 
materials of science.
Designed to furnish support for 
those undergraduates capable of 
becoming creative scientists or en­
gineers, the stress in the program 
is placed upon the need of the 
student to grow as an independent 
scholar and to demonstrate his 
capacity for creative enterprise.
The department of electrical
engineering received $14,625 from 
the National Science Foundation 
for its “Undergraduate Research 
Participation Program.” The grant, 
which will permit undergraduates 
to participate in on-going research 
projects in the department, will be 
administered by Dr. Everend M. 
Williams, head of the department.
The United States Army Re­
search Office has granted the phy­
sics department $71,000 for an 
“Experimental Study of the Band 
Structure in the Iron Series of 
Transition Elements.”
The study, to be made over a 
period of three years, will be di­
rected by Dr. Emerson M. Pugh, 
professor and associate head of the 
department, and Dr. James A. 
Dreesen, instructor in physics.
S1
FHCUFLI
DRAWING BOARDS
Browns Hill 
Builders Supply Co.
In Squirrel Hill 
Call HA. 1-3500 - HA. 1-5900
FOR AM MICA'S FUTURI AMO TOUR 0WH...J0IH THF AEROSPACE TEAM.
^A«%uuuuntnnummmu%uuiwM»»i|t
IMPORTANT ANNOUNCEMENT TO 
CANDIDATES FOR BACCALAUREATE 
AND ADVANCED DEGREES
GYGkACEkiY GNbENGGCI 
^oTIEkEIAI 
UiAoGUiAEkEiNI
Technical representatives 
of the MITRE Corporation 
will be conducting interviews 
on campus 
April 4, 1962
MITRE now has openings for talented men who want to 
work in the challenging new field of system engineering ... a 
set of skills defined in only the most recent reference books. 
With MITRE, system engineering embraces such electronic 
command and control systems as the NORAD Intelligence 
Function and the manned bomber defense, SAGE.
The work is vital. Time for decision in aerospace opera­
tions has been compressed intolerably. Today’s military 
leaders must have help in commanding forces of awesome 
strength. They need great quantities of information elec­
tronically transmitted, processed and displayed. This is the 
challenge of command and control... the work of the men at 
MITRE.
Formed under the sponsorship of the Massachusetts 
Institute of Technology, MITRE is a growing engineering 
research corporation with 1,600 employees, over 600 of which 
comprise the technical staff. It serves as technical advisor to 
the U. S. Air Force and other government agencies and en­
gages in system design, conceptual planning, evaluation of 
electronic systems and research development.
Appointments will be made principally in the Suburban 
^Boston area. Openings are also available at facilities in 
Washington, D. C. and Colorado Springs, Colo. Brochures 
describing the activities of The MITRE Corporation are 
available on request at the placement office.
ARRANGE FOR AN INTERVIEW 
THROUGH THE PLACEMENT OFFICE.
jJE IMITRE
CORPORATION
P.O. Box #208 - Bedford, Massachusetts

---------------------------------------------------

Wednesday, March 28, 1962 — THE CARNEGIE TARTAN — Page 9
R J, Keynolils Tdbsoeo Co., Winston-Salem, X. C.
WINSTON TASTES G
FILTER-BLENDl is yours in Winston and only Winston. 
Up front you get rich golden tobaccos specially selected 
and specially processed for filter smoking. Smoke Winston.
ohman Wins 
ACS Award For 
Nuclear Tests
Truman P. Kohman, professor 
of chemistry at Carnegie Institute 
f Technology, has been named 
he 1962 recipient of the American 
Chemical Society Award for Nu­
clear Applications in Chemistry.
The. award, sponsored by the 
Nuclear-Chicago Corporation, was 
presented to Professor Kohman at 
the A.C.S. meeting held in Wash­
ington. Professor Kohman ad­
dressed the meeting on Friday, 
March 23, and ^as given his 
award on the following Monday.
This award was established in 
1953 by the Nuclear-Chicago 
Corporation for the purpose of 
recognizing, and stimulating iso- 
topic applications in the field of 
chemistry. It consists of a cash 
award of $1,000 plus a certificate.
Professor Kohman was honored 
“for his researches in known na­
tural radionucides and in the dis­
covery of new ones; in tracer in­
vestigations, which led to the dis­
covery of aluminum 26; in geo­
logical and cosmological chrono­
logy; and for the students whom 
he has launched into their own ca­
reers in nuclear chemistry.”
Born in Champaign, Illinois, 
Professor Kohman received his 
A.B. degree from Harvard College 
and his Ph.D. from the University 
of Wisconsin. Prior to joining the 
Carnegie Tech faculty in 1948, he 
served on the Manhattan Project 
and held a resarch fellowship at 
the University of Chicago. He has 
written over 45 articles in profes­
sional journals and from 1956 to 
1960 was a member of the Edi­
torial Committee of the Annual 
Review of Nuclear Science.
He holds memberships in the 
American Chemical Society, the 
American Association for the Ad­
vancement of Science, the Geo­
chemical Society, the American 
Nuclear Society and several others
MARK FIVARS
AND HIS ORCHESTRA
ANU.sp AiNr3w Eit 
A$IraIr, upivsp
JA 1-8384
Its what's up front that counts
bHGI ^ AHO^CISSI RkToeLi
' ' ' ' ' * -ww»CVCE CANTON' &£&
SANDSTON6S — SHAtêS
ADLERrA dcAehEg-mEp 
hkNvwA,Er WRhvLEpkrL
SECTION THROUGH 
GNOME EVENT
Power from below
An artist’s conception of Project Gnome, a step toward providing power and isotopes from under­
ground thermonuclear detonations. This area of endeavor is part of Project Plowshare, initiated at 
the Lawrence Radiation Laboratory of the University of California. Other Plowshare projects under 
study include the excavation of an experimental harbor in Alaska, production of oil from tar sands, 
control of groundwaters, mining applications, and other novel ideas using the energy of nuclear 
explosives.
The Lawrence Radiation Lab­
oratory is working in the areas 
of Nuclear Propulsion, Con­
trolled Thermonuclear Reac­
tions, Nuclear Explosives for 
Industry and Defense, Space 
Physics, and other advanced 
problems in Nuclear Physics 
and Engineering.
ON MARCH 29
Laboratory staff members wTill 
be on Campus to interview out­
standing students in the Phys­
ical Sciences and Engineering.
Call your placement office 
for an appointment
LAWRENCE RADIATION 
LABORATORY
of the University of California 
Berkeley and Livermore, California

---------------------------------------------------

l>»Se J — THE CARNEGIE TARTAN — Wednesday, March 2ft, 19ft«
Vulcans Outshoot Grad Eagles;
£ £ Grads Win la Miaor league
Photo by Skalka
Beile goes up for two against a strong SN defense. Getting set for 
the rebound are McCue and Vande Linde as Bouxsein attempts to 
block the shot.
Excitement under the boards in the Vulean-Grad ball. Loepp and 
Eagle game has Deprand and Crotty of the Grad ously watch the 
Eagles and McGill of the Vulcans fighting for the
* * * * * *
by Lynn Adams In the two contests played at
IN THE MAJORS eight o’clock, the Grad Eagles and
In the QUARTER-FINALS of the Vulcans emerged victorious, 
the IM Basketball Tournament re- The Grad Eagles, with a great 
suits were nearly as expected, with height advantage, had little 
the possible exception of the Sig- j trouble disposing of ATO ‘ B” 55- 
ma Nu win over top-seeded ATO. 36. Dowdle led the Grads with 15, 
The ATO's, playing for the first while Parti had 12 for the ATO’s. 
time this season without a height The Vulcans, after trailing at half 
advantage, found themselves out- time by ten points, got “hot” and 
hustled by the sharp shooting Sig- outscored the Tau Delts 22-2 in 
ma Nu’s. They dropped a very . the third quarter. They then coast- 
close 59-56 decision. SN was help- ' ed to a 62-52 win. Jack Dobbs 
ed intensely by Pete Bouxsein’s 24 once again topped the Vulcan 
points; as was ATO, by Tommy scorers with 22 points, although 
Huff’s 24. In a game played at the Fred Loepp, playing despite a knee 
same time on the next court, the injury, dropped in 16. For the 
Warriors dropped a low scoring,, “Big Blue” it was Steve Rothen- 
‘•foul-filled” affair to KS, 22-20. i berg with 17 points and Marty 
Jerry Flynn of the Warriors seem- j Skowran with 16. 
ed to be the only one able to find The pattern of both SEMI- 
the rim as he scored 11; Ben Bech- j FINAL games was the same. After 
tal had 7 for KS. i a very close first half both the
Adams both of the Vulcans anxi- 
scramble.
Photo by Skalka 
, * * *
Vulcans and the Grad Eagles open­
ed up commanding leads near the ! 
end of the third quarter, enabling 
them to win, despite determined 
! fourth quarter efforts by both I 
Sigma Nu and Kappa Sigma. Fox 
scored 13 points, and moved the [
Grads’ offense, as he led them to i 
a 54-42 victory over KS. Beile di- j 
rected the KS offense and scored j 
12 points while doing so. It was | 
Dobbs who once again led the Vul- I 
cans’ scoring attack as he netted 
22 points and played well defen- j 
sively. Bouxsein was high for the 
Sigma Nu’s with 17 points.
The CHAMPIONSHIP game! 
matched the unbeaten, high re- j 
bounding Grad Eagles against the 
equally undefeated, sharpshooting 
Vulcans. The Grads jumped off to ! 
their biggest lead of the night, 2-0, 
as Fox hit a jump shot at the start I 
of the game. However, within a! 
matter of minutes they fell behind, j 
never to again take the lead. The J 
smaller VuJcans although outre- ] 
bounded by the Grads, set up a 
tight zone defense which enabled 
their “boardmen,” McGill, Shaw I 
and Lang, to control the defensive j 
boards. This defensive rebounding, 
coupled with the fast breaking of 
Adams and Dobbs, proved to be 
too much for the Grads as they 
succumber 65-61. The Grad Eagles 
played a man-to-man defense 
thereby limiting Jack Dobbs and 
Leroy Shaw to 26 points and 15 
points, respectively. The Grads’ 
zone attack was led by Bob Fox 
who controlled their passing at­
tack while scoring 13 points. How­
ever, the high scorer for the Grads
was Ben Patz with 14 points; he 
was forced to do most of his 
shooting from the outside despite 
his 6’5’’ size. Other Grad Eagles 
hitting double figures were Dap- 
rano and Crookston who scored 11 
and 10 points, respectively. Des­
pite the 65-61 score the game was 
never in doubt, as the Vulcans led 
by 10 points with less than one 
minute to play. At this point Dobbs 
fouled out, joining Lang who left 
via personal fouls earlier in tH-_ 
game, and was replaced by Ron 
Santina. Santina and Loepp, who 
had replaced Lang earlier, pro­
ceeded to wrap up the Grads and 
deprive them of their sixth trophy 
of the night.
In the CONSOLATION game it 
was SN all the way, as they clear­
ed their bench en route to a lack­
adaisical 57-47 win over KS. Wil­
lard and Lawrence scored 13 p • 
piece for SN, while Leone had Iv 
for KS.
IN THE MINORS
While the quarter final games 
were being played at the near end 
of the Gym last Monday night, the 
E.E. Grads were having little 
trouble disposing of the Whales at 
the far end, in the second annual 
Minor League Championship. Once 
again Dale Holmes led the Grads 
as he scored 28 points en route to 
a 53-29 trouching of the Whale!..
rIabber
The authentic
British tab collar.
Here’s a college shirt with the distinctive 
tab collar minus the nuisance of a brass 
collar button to hold'the tabs in place.
CAMPUS HEADQUARTERS for ARROW PRODUCTS
^ R’.Iir’ss0«£ri$r lsi._Ira ’r3 hNtrIw_Iraw— Ep’.NtIra -m0 gp’aNp h’w_Iirw
t LEONARD'S MEN'S SHOP
CORNER FORBES and ATWOOD MU. 2-5209 OAKLAND
The tabs snap together under the tie knot 
giving you the crisp, clean “savoir faire” 
look. Try Tabber Snap for a change of 
pace in striped oxford white and colors.
?5.00
THE SAFE WAY to stay alertwithout harmful stimulants
Never take chances with 
dangerous “pep pills.” Instead, 
take proven safe NoDoz*?., 
Keeps you mentally alert with 
the same safe refresher found 
in coffee. Yet NoDoz is faster, 
handier, more reliable. Abso­
lutely not habit-forming. Next 
time monotony makes you feel 
drowsy while driving, working 
or studying, do as millions do 
. . . perk up with safe, effective 
NoDoz. Another fine product 
of Grove Laboratories.
rrf/t/tOfT-
From the
“Cum Laude Collection”

---------------------------------------------------

TELEPHONE W!AN-ÖF-THE MONTH
Wednesday, March 28, 19«;i — THE C ARNEGIE TARTAN — Paf« H
LINCOLN LABORATORY
has openings for a 
limited number of en­
gineers, physicists and 
mathematicians in orig­
inal research and 
development activities.
LINCOLN LABORATORY
is an electronics research 
and development center 
established by M.I.T. in 
1951.
OUR REPRESENTATIVE 
WILL BE ON CAMPUS
APRIL 2
CONTACT YOUR 
PLACEMENT OFFICE NOW
Research end Development
* LINCOLN LABORATORY
Massachusetts Institute of Technology
BOX 21 • LEXINGTON 73 
MASSACHUSETTS
«SIGMA NU NETS 
CHAMPIONSHIP, 
BSR SECOND
Capturing two firsts and two 
seconds, Sigma Nu notched its 
fourth straight wrestling cham­
pionship in the finals held in 
(# Skibo gym, March 23. Beta Sig­
ma Rho took second, followed in 
third place by Sigma Alpha Ep­
silon and an independent. Semi­
final matches were held in the 
gym on March 21.
Sigma Nu was led to the team 
championship by Bob Erskine and 
Skip Sprenkle, who took indi­
vidual class championships in the 
150 lb. and heavyweight divisions, 
respectively. Other champions 
and their classes are: 140 lb.,
Reichner, independent; 155 lb., 
Faircloth, SAE; 160 lb., Barr, BTP; 
180 lb., Balzar, BSR. Runners- 
up in each class were: 140 lb., 
Pavesi; 150 lb., Andors; 155 lb., 
Schultz; 160 lb., Crowder; 180 
lb., Benzinger; Heavy weight, 
Brotman.
Team totals were as follows: 
(to Sigma Nu—16, BSR—8, SAE—5, 
Independent—5, BTP—3. Other 
teams participating were the Met 
Grads and Theta XL Points were 
awarded in the semi-finals on a 
basis of 2, for a pin and 1 for a 
decision or a forfeit. Consolation 
matches scored 1 for a decision, 
pin, or forfeit. In the finals, 3 
were awarded for a pin and 2 for 
a decision or a forfeit.
Birdy Elected YMCA 
Chairman Of Board
Dobbs of the champion Vulcans drives for two against Cullman of the 
Grad Eagles in last Friday’s basketball finals.
TONY'S BARBER SHOP
SPECIALIZING UK ALL KINDS OF HAIRCUTS
NO WAITING EXPERT BARBERS
1X6 Benqeet It, (Ne*r Corner Ftrbn end Benqvet)
New Hours: 8 A.M. to 8 P.M. Daily MU. 2-9969
Earl J. Birdy, Assistant Profes­
sor of Physical Education, was 
elected Chairman of the Campus 
YMCA Board of Management on 
March 1, replacing retiring Chair­
man Robert W. Samuelson, Exe- 
i cutive Secretary of the Alumni 
Federation. The YMCA Board, 
composed of nine faculty, five stu­
dents, one alumni, and one campus 
pastor, is responsible for the over­
all direction of the Campus YMCA. 
It sets long-reange goals, deter­
mines policy, supervises programs, 
and employs the Campus YMCA 
Secretary, Richard L. Batchelder.
Other officers elected on March 
1 were: Ned C. Krouskop, Re­
search Chemist, as Vice-Chairman; 
Robert H: Burdett, Associate Pro­
fessor of Architecture, as Secre- 
tary-Treasurer. Elected to three 
year terms on the Board were: 
Robert H. Burdett, Architecture; 
Col. Edward J. Gallagher, Mili­
tary Science; and Philip L. South- 
wick, Chemistry. George E. Tip- 
ker, Head of Men’s Housing was 
elected to a one year term.
Other faculty members of the 
Board are Hugo Heier, History, 
and John C. Shearer, Economics.
Earl J. Birdy
Student Board members are David 
Adams, Bill Kurtz, Allan Pollock, 
Dale Ritchey, and Foodrow Wells.
Retiring from the Board after 
three years of service were: Eber 
W. Gaylord, Mechanical Engineer­
ing; Charles Pearson. Music; and 
Robert R. Rothfus. Chemical En- 
ginetring.
SUCCESSFUL
STUDENTS
AoG eGYY AGYG^o«NG k«U^iNEGI 
IiYRAGc r«oN UiCAEN
Three years ago, John Martin joined the New York Tele­
phone Company and made an important contribution on his 
very first assignment. He was given the task of planning 
the addition of new dial equipment that would be com­
patible with existing equipment in Liverpool, N. Y.—a 
complex assignment, but John skillfully worked it out, sig­
nificantly increasing the number of calls that could be
handled through Liverpool. His efforts earned his promo­
tion to Budget Engineer—quite a step for a young engineer 
just three years out of college.
John Martin and other young engineers like him in Bell 
Telephone Companies throughout the country, help bring 
the finest communications service in the world to the homes 
and businesses of a growing America.
eGYY AGYG^o«NG k«U^iNEGI

---------------------------------------------------

Vulcans Get 
Most Fouls
The Vulcan “W” team, shooting 
a blistering .795 percentage, out- 
shot their nearest rivals by 11 to 
become champions in intramural 
foul shooting in matches held in 
the gym, March 19 and 21. In 
second place was Beta Sigma Rho, 
followed by Vulcan “BSigma 
Alpha Epsilon and Beta Theta Pi. 
Shooting 398 out of a possible 500 
from the free throw lin the 
champion Vulcans were led by A1 
Rolnik with 90 out of 100. Beta 
Sig. in second place with a 387 out 
of 500 and a .775 percentage, was 
led by Andy Freedman with 87. 
Individual highs were Rolnik, Vul- ! 
cans, 90; Freedman, BSR, 87;: 
Loepp, Vulcans, 84; Wright, SAE, j 
82; Beile, KS,82; Dobbs, Vulcans,! 
82. and Lynch. BTP, 82.
Teams participating other than 
the leading five, in order in which j 
they finished were: PKT, DU, Vul­
can “G”, DTD, KS, Flyers, ATO 
*’A”, ATO “B” and TDP.
WRITE 
FOR | 
TARTAN
?age it — THE CARNEGIE TARTAN — Wednesday, March 19«3
Grad Eagles Outsplash SAE 
For Victory In IM Swim Meet 
PKA Flounders For Third Place
Splashing merrily along in the 
Carnegie Tech Intra-mural swim­
ming meet, the Grad Eagles added 
another team championship to 
their already impressive list of 
accomplishments. Dominating the 
meet thoroughly, the Grads gar­
nered 39 points to second place 
SAE's 24 and third place PKA’s 
1.8 The Grads took first, in four 
of the seven events, winning the 
50 yd. free style, the 50 yd. breast 
stroke, the 100 yd. free style, and 
the 200 yd. free style relay, 
ATO took first in the 150 yd. med­
ley relay, PKA the 150 yd. free 
style, and BSR the 50 yd. back 
stroke. Gene Witchger, Grad 
Eagles,, was the high individual 
point man, winning two individ­
ual events and swiming on a win­
ning relay team. He was fol­
lowed by team-mate Ken Knight, 
who won one individual event, 
placed third in another, and swam 
on the same winning relay team 
as Witchger.
Team totals, on a basis of 10- 
6-4-2 for the relays and 6-4-2-1 
for the individual events, were: 
Grad Eagles, 39; SAE, 24; PKA, 
188:8 ATO, 17; BSR, 6; followed 
by DTD. TDP, Vulcans, SN, and 
PKT, in that order,
Statistics:
150 yard medley relay (1:43.0)
1. ATO (Breeding, Harvey. Root)
2. G.E. (Dupasquier, Jordan. Kuhn)
3. SAE (Molckude, Williams, 
Thomason )
4. PKA (Heehling. Sandulli, Graves) 
50 yard free style (0:27.1)
1. G.E. (Knight)
2. SAE (McClure)
3. G.E. (Gilmore»
4. DTD (Wendlandt)
50 yard breast stroke (0:34.M1. G.E. (Witchger)
2. SAE (Molckude)
3. SAE (Moran)
4. ATO (Harvey)
100 yard free style (1:03.6)
1. G.E. (Witchger)
2. SAE (Mehltretter)
3. G.E. (Knighti
4. TDP (Levine)
50 yard back stroke (0:32,3)
1. BSR (Merson)
2. PKA (Reehling)
3. ATO (Weyer)
4. G.E, (Jordan)
150 yard free style (1:48,0)
1. PKA (Williams)
2. SAE (Thomason«
3. DTD (Wendlandti
4. Vulcans (Regan)
200 yard free style relay (1:52.2)
1. G.E. (Gilmore, Kuhn, Knight, 
Witchger)
2. PKA (Klein, Sandulli, Graves, 
Reehling)
3. ATO (Von Twistern, Root, Kurtz, Weyer)
4. SAE (McClure, Williams, 
Mehltretter, Thomason)
Champs Accept Trophies At 
14th Annual Intramural Night
The 14th Annual Intramural 
Night was held on Friday, March 
23, from 7:30 to 10:30 p.m. The 
evening’s program included the 
championship and consolation 
games in basketball and the pre­
sentation of trophies for sports 
already completed-this year.
The Vulcans defeated the Grad 
Eagles, 65-61, in the second game 
for the school championship. In 
the first game Sigma Nu wore 
down Kappa Sigma, 57-47, 
third plac.
Between games, first-place tro­
phies and Most Valuable Player 
awards for completed sports were 
presented by Bruce Kissel, presi­
dent of I.M. Board, and Allan 
Kullen, president of I.M. Man­
agers Club.
First-place trophies went to the 
Grad Eagles for touch football, 
table tennis, water polo, squash, 
and swimming, to TDP for vol­
leyball, to SAE-Pansies for eo- 
rec voleyball, to BTP for bowl­
ing, to SN for wrestling, and to 
the Vulcans for basketball and 
foul-shooting.
Most Valuable Players were
Allan Kullen, President of the Manager’s Club, presents the I.M, 
Swimming trophy to Ira Kuhn of the champion Grad Eagles, during’ 
the award presentation at Intramural night last Friday.
Robert Murphy (Grad Eagles) in 
football, Marvin Buban (SAE) in 
volleyball, James Swisher (Grad 
Eagles) in bowling, and A1 Rol­
nik (Vulcans) in foul-shooting.
All Sports Trophy Points as
they stand right now:
Grad Eagles 44 ATO
Vulcans
TDP
SN
SAE
BSR
BTP
24 DU 
18 Obelisk 
14 DTD 
12 Faculty 
11 KS 
10 PiKA.
NY
, Michigan
I COMFORTABLY 
I CONVENIENTLY ¦
Good accommodations for 
young men, groups at $2.60- 
$2,75 single, $4.20 $4.40 
double — Membership includ­
ed. Cafeteria, laundry, barber 
shop, newsstand, laundromat, 
and tailor in building. Free 
programs. Tours arranged.
WILLIAM SLOANE 
HOUSE Y.M.C.A.
dsf Onth dBhD IhWnnh 
ony THW’p Np Tp «ap sgswdd
(1 Biock from Penn, Sta )
o
O
Automatic cars with button and lever 
controls may seem far out right now. But 
Ford Motor Company scientists and engi­
neers are busy prying out and buttoning 
down some fantastic computer- 
controlled guidance systems for future 
Ford-built cars.
Among the controls now under study at 
Ford is a radar system that warns a 
driver when he gets too close to the 
vehicle ahead. Another is a short-range 
radio frequency device that extends the 
limits of drivers’ senses by giving advance 
information on road surface and weather 
conditions, evaluating and appraising 
obstacles in the driving path ahead. 
When developed, control systems like 
these will enable drivers to enjoy safer, 
faster driving without fatigue.
Advanced studies of this nature are but 
a part of a continuous and wide-ranging 
program that has gained Ford its place 
of leadership through scientific research
