Volume 94, Issue 20tartan@andrew.cmu.edu20 March 2000
University names first woman vice president
by Krissy ChoiStaffwriter
The University recently filled the 
position of Vice President of 
Development and Alumni Relations 
with former CMU faculty member 
Robbee Kosak. She becomes the 
first woman vice president of 
Carnegie Mellon University.
Kosak worked previously at CMU 
in 1979 for Alumni Relations. Her 
first project at the University was 
with the Student Alumni Relation 
Committee (SARC). Here, she had 
the chance to learn the special con­
nection with students. “It is some­
thing very important to the future of 
the University. Students are the life­
blood of the University and it is all 
about the students who make up the 
University. I believe that reaching 
out and supporting students is a 
very important way I do my work,” 
said Kosak. She hopes that the stu­
dents will be as interested in work­
ing together as they were back then. 
“Starting here made it very easy to 
come back.”
“I love the openness and receptiv­
ity of the people here on campus — 
student and faculty. [I have a] great 
team of people and students, and 
the SARCs are incredibly impres­
sive,” Kosak said.
Although the big measure for the 
job of Vice President of 
Development and Alumni Relations 
is the amount of money the school 
raises, it is not the only task that 
Kosak believes her job entails. “We 
build relationships that have mutual 
value to our students, alumni and 
corporations/foundations as well as 
other friends of CMU.” Kosak said 
that this ultimately raises personal 
interest and dedication as well as 
financial commitment.
Achieving her current position 
was not an easy task for Kosak. 
According.to Kosak, there is an 
expected pace to one’s advancement 
and anyone who does not follow the 
pace is not accepted. “My career has 
[gone at] a very accelerated pace.” 
For Kosak, her fast-paced advance­
ment may have been a question to 
her fellow competitors, but she says 
See VP, page 3
Strike may affect spring break travels
by Aseem GuptaWebmaster
After more than eight weeks of classes, tests, 
projects, and papers, most Carnegie Mellon stu­
dents are looking forward to a rejuvenating 
spring break next week. However, the travel 
plans of thousands of students may be in jeop­
ardy. US Airways, Pittsburgh’s largest air-travel 
provider, may be shutting down its operation 
hours after the spring break holiday begins.
US Airways flight attendants have been work­
ing for more than three years without a contract 
with the airline. Thousands of US Airways flight 
attendants have threatened to strike beginning 
at 12:01 am on Saturday, March 25 if the airline 
does not agree to the union’s contract demands. 
According to US Airways media releases, rather 
than potentially subjecting its customers to pos­
sible random strike disruptions, the airline 
would prefer to cease all operations.
“We cannot strike the airline on the 25th, if 
the airline shuts down,” said Richard Delgadillo, 
Local 40 President of the Association of Flight 
Attendants (AFA). Delgadillo contends that the 
airline is effectively standing in the way of strike 
action. Although Delgadillo is sympathetic to 
the potential disruptions that may be caused to 
CMU students, he urged students to understand 
the union’s reasoning. “We value the future of 
US Airways, [however] passengers know that
US Airways flight attendants threaten to strike unless new contract demands are met. The strike will not 
only affect the employees, but also the thousands of students travelling for Spring Break.
there are alternatives,” he said.
Delgadillo also stressed that while the airline 
is threatening to shut down the entire US 
Airways system, the union is only threatening to 
strike 49 of US Airways’s domestic routes. Just 
three of the routes involve Pittsburgh, a US 
Airways hub and one of its busiest airports. The
three routes that the flight attendants might 
strike are Pittsburgh to New York/Newark, 
Chicago, and Atlanta. Delgadillo said that by 
announcing the routes weeks ahead of time, the 
flight attendants were giving customers time to 
rebook on other carriers such as Delta,
See STRIKE, page L7
Forum
Think school spirit 
is lacking at CMU? 
Sean Mintus looks 
at the causes of 
this absence this 
week, 
page 6
Sports
CMU swim teams 
place at the NCAA 
Swimming and 
Diving
Championship, 
page 12
Arts & Living
Check out The 
Boyfriend review 
and the excite­
ment of Greek 
Sing in this 
week's issue, 
page LI
Business
A senior comput­
er science stu­
dent is creating 
quite a stir in the 
network security 
industry, 
page L6
Entertainment
Julia Roberts’ lat­
est film Erin 
Brockovich hit the­
aters last weekend. 
Check out the 
review here, 
page L9
Calendar
Don't have any 
plans for Spring 
Break this year? 
Play the Academy 
Awards Game, 
page LI2
TUESDAY
WEDNESDAY
Hi 62/Lo 43
THURSDAY
Carnegie Mêlions Student Newspaper Since lÿo6
THE TARTAN
INSIDE THE TARTAN
SDC changes meal plan
-—:——:---------------------------------------------------------------------- $5.50. “It’s like using Dine
by Laine ToweyAssistant News Editor
Recent changes to Carnegie 
Mellon’s meal plan, a staple of 
frustration for many first-year 
students, have earned various 
sentiments from students, run­
ning the gamut from praise to 
questioning the complex nature 
of some new changes.
“We wanted to increase flexi­
bility and decrease complexity,” 
said Harry Tsang, a junior 
majoring in business adminis­
tration and the SDC food chair. 
Along those lines, the SDC food 
committee is getting rid of meal 
blocks, and instead substituting 
“value meals,” which will start 
up next semester.
These value meals are meals 
with a cash equivalency of
XPress in blocks of $5.50,” said 
Tsang. Different campus ven­
dors will begin assigning costs 
of $5.50 to many meals to facil­
itate the new meal plan.
However, Dine Xpress money 
will still be in existence for stu­
dents to úse in addition to their 
block meals. There will still be 
basic meal plans, but the 
denominations will change to 
accommodate the new value 
meal system.
The Highlander Café will also 
be made á la carte, instead of 
all-you-can-eat. Therefore, stu­
dents will purchase predefined 
meals for a specified price. It is 
hoped that this will make man­
aging the value meals easier for 
students. “Hopefully, there will 
be fresher food and the food
See MEALS, page 3
Provost reflects on advances made during his tenure
CMU Design Department updates programs
by Jennifer ResickStaffwriter
The Carnegie Mellon Design depart­
ment made several upgrades recently,
including the implementation of a PhD 
Program and remodeling of undergradu­
ate studios.
A doctoral degree is a new aspect for 
design programs - not many exist in this 
country. In fact, Richard Buchanan, pro-
Anthony D Auria/Photo Staff
Along with a new PhD degree cirriculum, the design department is also working to 
improve the undergraduate program. These improvements include consolidating and 
remodeling the undergraduate studios.
fessor and head of the Design 
Department, gave the keynote address at 
the first International Conference of 
Doctoral Education Design last year held 
at Ohio State University.
“This doctoral program is for students 
who want to explore the emerging disci­
plines of interaction design and the 
development of design theory in the con­
temporary world,” said Buchanan. 
Students in CMU’s program focus on 
design research with the goal of becom­
ing educators and researchers. “Research 
and doctoral education go together,” said 
Buchanan. PhD students may choose to 
focus on one of four areas, including 
Design Theory, Interaction Design, 
Typography and Information Design, and 
New Product Development. The design 
department is especially interested in 
focusing on Interactive Design which “is 
about people: how people relate to peo­
ple, how people relate to products, and 
how people relate to each other through 
the mediating influence of products,” 
said Buchanan.
The program will be up and running 
this fall with a very small group of stu­
dents, perhaps fewer than five. “We want 
to start small because we are interested 
not in quantity, but high quality,” said 
Buchanan. And the program is never 
expected to grow tremendously. He also 
added, “We expect our students to cross 
disciplinary boundaries and work in
See DESIGN, page 5
by Aseem GuptaWebmaster
When asked last week about what 
his time as provost meant to him, Dr. 
Paul Christiano was strikingly pen­
sive. “It has been a tremendous 
opportunity to see the University 
, from a unique vantage point,” he 
said after a few moments of silence. 
“It has been a chance to participate, 
in a position that is unique, trying to 
help others fulfill their ambitions.”
>• Christiano will step down at the end 
of the semester after serving as 
Carnegie Mellon’s provost for over 
nine years.
“I don’t think the position has 
evolved, but the University has 
evolved a lot,” said Christiano. “The 
sorts of things that have happened 
over the last ten years have been a 
more balanced view in terms of
Student organizations showed off their favorite cultural dishes on Friday at the International 
Food Festival that took place in the University Center.
teaching and research.” Christiano 
pointed out that in the research 
arena a great revolution in fields 
such as information technology (IT) 
has taken place.
According to Christiano, many of 
CMU’s professors have been on the 
forefront of technology. The provost 
also pointed out that major changes 
took place in student services such 
as the Undergraduate Research 
Initiative, which was created ten 
years ago. “[Resources] are still 
pretty lean,” said Christiano. He 
added, however, that the University 
has increased its responsiveness to 
the students.
Perhaps some of the most notable 
changes have been in the reshaping 
of the curriculum at CMU. 
Christiano said that many faculty 
members spent a substantial 
amount of time asking themselves 
See PROVOST, page 5
Paul Christiano takes time out to reflect on the improvements 'he iniitated on this 
campus. He had a key role in the reshaping of the CMU cirriculum and increasing 
emphasis on teaching.

---------------------------------------------------

THE TARTAN « MARCH 20. 2000
+ OFIRE+
Opposition wins Taiwan election
TAIPEI, Taiwan (AP) — Chen 
Shui-bian, vilified by China as a 
radical who would thrust Taiwan 
toward independence and war, 
won Taiwan’s presidential election 
Saturday, trouncing the candidate 
of the party that has ruled this 
island for more than half a century.
Beijing deeply distrusts Chen 
because his Democratic Progressive 
Party favors taking Taiwan from de- 
facto to formal independence and 
making the 51-year-old split with 
China permanent.
But the president-elect, who has 
softened his stance on indepen­
dence to appeal to nervous voters, 
immediately pledged to seek dia­
logue with Beijing.
China’s first response to Chen’s 
win was that it would wait to see 
how he would handle relations. 
The election results “will not 
change the status of Taiwan as a 
part of China,” the government said 
in a statement issued by state 
media.
China has repeatedly threatened 
to wage war to block formal inde­
pendence by Taiwan, which it has 
considered a renegade province 
since Chiang Kai-shek’s 
Nationalists fled to the island after 
the Communist takeover of the
mainland in 1949.
A conflict could quickly involve 
the United States, which has hinted 
it would defend the island, slightly 
larger than Massachusetts and 
Connecticut combined.
Fireworks crackled and air horns 
blared as Chen took the victory 
stage in Taipei and assured tens of 
thousands of supporters he wants 
peace with Beijing.
“I hope we can use closer cooper­
ation and exchanges and use 
patience and respect and together 
Chinese society can create a peace­
ful and happy new century,” Chen 
said.
The son of a sugar cane laborer 
whose workaholic ways earned him 
a law degree at Taiwan’s top uni­
versity and won him the post of 
Taipei mayor, Chen entered politics 
by defending dissidents during 
Taiwan’s martial law era.
In Washington, President Clinton 
congratulated Chen and urged a 
renewal of dialogue between China 
and Taiwan that Beijing suspended 
in 1995. Chen’s win “clearly 
demonstrates the strength and 
vitality of Taiwan’s democracy,” 
Clinton said in a statement.
The three-way race was an elec­
toral cliffhanger, with most polls
saying the candidates were in a sta­
tistical tie. But in the last week of 
the campaign, Chen showed the 
most momentum, winning key 
endorsements and attracting large, 
enthusiastic crowds at his rallies.
Chen captured 39 percent of the 
vote, while populist independent 
James Soong came in second with 
37 percent.
Almost 83 percent of Taiwan’s 15 
million voters turned out.
Chen’s victory could be seen as a 
sign that China’s massive military 
just 80 miles across the Taiwan 
Strait cannot intimidate Taiwanese 
into voting for a candidate Beijing 
prefers.
“Brave Taiwanese used love and 
hope to overcome terror and used 
our votes to show our determina­
tion to maintain our democracy,” 
Chen said amid fluttering silver 
and green confetti, his voice raspy 
from campaigning and then cele­
brating.
He is untested in the internation­
al arena, where he will face grow­
ing pressure to deliver a diplomatic 
breakthrough with China. Last 
month, China stepped up its 
threats, saying it will attack if 
Taiwan indefinitely delays talks on 
reunification.
Gun dealer agrees to tighter safety control
WASHINGTON (AP) — In a deal 
heralded as a way to save children’s 
lives, gunmaking giant Smith & 
Wesson agreed Friday to install 
locks on its weapons in order to 
make them more childproof. In 
exchange, governments would 
drop lawsuits seeking damages for 
gun violence.
The agreement was reached after 
around two months of negotiations 
involving the company, state, and 
local officials, and the Clinton 
administration. It establishes an 
unprecedented “code of conduct” 
for selling and distributing hand­
guns. President Clinton expressed 
hope that other gun companies will 
follow Smith & Wesson’s lead.
“A decision to enter this agree­
ment, we realized, would not be 
popular with everyone,” Smith & 
Wesson President Ed Shultz said in 
a conference call broadcast at a 
news conference where the deal 
was announced. “But we believe ... 
it is the right thing to do.”
Clinton declared the agreement 
an act of “courage and vision” by 
Smith & Wesson. In a conference 
call with local officials, he hinted
that governments on all levels 
ought to remember the gun manu­
facturer when it is time to purchase 
supplies.
“Smith & Wesson stuck their 
neck out here,” Clinton said. “I 
think all of us, including the federal 
government, in our procurement 
policies — if we are really serious 
about making America safer — 
ought to send a clear signal that we 
appreciate what they did. This is a 
happy day.”
The gun industry greeted the 
deal with uncertainty, although 
some companies said they already 
take safety measures like those to 
which Smith & Wesson agreed.
But the National Shooting Sports 
Foundation, a firearms industry 
organization, condemned Smith & 
Wesson, saying it had “violated a 
trust with their consumers and 
with the entire domestic firearms 
industry” by entering the agree­
ment.
“This is an ill-conceived action on 
the part of one of the most revered 
names in the American firearms 
industry,” said Robert Delfay, the 
foundation’s president and chief
executive.
Smith & Wesson agreed to 
include safety locks with all of its 
handguns and pistols — external 
locks to be on the weapons within 
60 days and internal locks to be 
installed within two years. New 
firearms would not be allowed to 
accept magazines that hold more 
than 10 rounds of ammunition.
Also, Smith & Wesson will devote ¦ 
two percent of firearms revenues 
every year to developing “smart” 
technology that limits a gun’s use to 
its rightful owner. The gunmaker, 
in addition, will not advertise or 
market its products in a way that 
appeals to juveniles or criminals, 
such as ads claiming guns are fin­
gerprint-proof.
For their part, federal, state and 
local governments agreed to dis­
miss pending suits against Smith & 
Wesson and refrain from filing new 
suits. The Clinton administration 
had been threatening to bring a 
national lawsuit against the indus­
try if manufacturers failed to enter 
negotiations aimed at increasing 
gun safety.
Corrections & ClarificationsThe Tartan corrects all known errors of fact. If you know of an error, please contact Editor-in-Chief Ish Harshawat atx8-2Ul or tartan@andrew.cmu.edu
National News
Volume9 o4 ,uIs20 um 
tarn @odwe0 .ce42e
,uMM hHi 6t/t/
HEADACHES?
Could be caused by pressure exerted by the Third Molars or WISDOM TEETH.
For a consultation on Wisdom Tooth Removal while you Sleep. Call 
Alfonso A. Costa D. M. D. and Roberto C. Michienzi D. M. D.at
681-3737
Ld3 ,o0mu u49 Ld3 REl+Ee4NE +uce 02dWEluMM- 
deIoce9 v+o20u490 2so4 v+o20u490 oA EIsulme9 CE09oI meem+3
Student Discounts
50% OFF ALL SERVICES
DENTIST ON CAMPUS
Services available:
Emergencies
Bleaching
Fillings
Crowns
Bridges
Root Canals 
Consults 
Bonding 
Cleaning 
Gum Treatment
Retainers 
Wisdom Teeth 
Extractions
Tufts denies gay 
student request
The Daily Free Press (Boston 
U.)/(U-WIRE) BOSTON — Carl 
Sciortino, Jr. wants to open the door 
for coed dormitory rooms at Tufts 
University, but thus far, school 
administrators are withholding the 
key.
Sciortino, a senior, has spent the 
last year lobbying school officials 
and student government groups to 
allow coed dormitory rooms for gay 
students who feel uncomfortable 
with same-sex room assignments. 
An active member of Tufts’ gay com­
munity, Sciortino believes gay stu­
dents assigned to standard same-sex 
rooms are often subjected to homo- 
phobic reactions and sexual harass­
ment from roommates.
After a gay friend’s request to live 
with a female friend was turned 
down by housing administrators, 
Sciortino, along with several other 
Tufts students and staff members, 
began working last year to create an 
alternative housing plan for homo­
sexual students.
In January, Tufts’ administrators 
gave the green light to the Dean of 
Students Office to explore a propos­
al in which gay and lesbian students 
would be allowed to room with stu­
dents of the opposite sex. Last week, 
the plan was rejected by Tufts 
President John DiBiaggio, bringing 
national attention to Sciortino’s 
plight and raising questions about
the role university administrators 
should play in dictating student’s 
housing regulations.
“It’s been overwhelming,” said 
Sciortino, who, aside from being 
featured in The Boston Globe and 
USA Today in the past week, has 
also been contacted by radio sta­
tions from Dallas and Los AngeleS, 
as well as two television stations 
and the ABC news magazine 20/20.
“I can’t accept an answer of ‘no,’ ” 
he said. “The administrators have 
acknowledged a concern, and now 
they are stopping because they are 
afraid of a negative reaction.”
The proposal that was rejected 
last week would have established a 
pilot program next year involving 10 
coeducational dorm rooms. Twenty 
consenting gay and lesbian students 
willing to file paperwork were to 
have access to the rooms. 
Heterosexual students who have no 
qualms about having a gay room­
mate were also eligible to apply.
Tufts officials are unable to com­
ment about the decision, but in a 
statement released Tuesday, the 
school claims that although it is 
sympathetic to the university’s gay 
community, it is unwilling to stray 
from the traditional policy of single­
gender rooms.
“We’re empathetic with the con­
cerns that some of our students have 
raised, and Tufts University is proud 
of the supportive relationship it has 
built with the members of its diverse 
community,” it said. “We believe we 
can address student concerns on a
case-by-case basis without digress­
ing from our university housing pol­
icy.”
Man sues to 
rescind donation
MINNEAPOLIS (AP) — An 
Augsburg College alumnus with 
controversial ideas about race 
tired of waiting for the school to 
name a building wing after him, so 
he’s suing to get back his gift of 
$500,000.
The private school accepted the 
money in 1987 from Elroy Stock, a 
member of the class of 1949.
But Augsburg officials later 
learned that Stock, now 77, had 
mailed out thousands of letters to 
interracial couples over a 20-year 
period condemning interracial mar­
riage, adoptions and out-of-wedlock \ 
births.
As a result, Augsburg President 
Charles Anderson said at the time, 
Stock had agreed that the wing 
wouldn’t be named after him while 
the college would keep the money. 
Anderson, who is white and has a 
black daughter-in-law, said he had 
received three of Stock’s letters.
Stock said Thursday he never 
made such an agreement.
“No institution keeps the money 
and doesn’t keep the agreement,” he 
said.
Augsburg public relations direc­
tion Barbara Nagle said the school 
plans to vigorously defend itself.
World News
Magician dies 
during act
HAMILTON, New Zealand (AP) 
— An audience of hospital patients 
applauded when a magician col­
lapsed and died during a show, 
thinking it was part of his act, his 
family said Friday.
Ron Watson, known as Uncle Ron 
the Magician, was trying to cheer up 
stroke victims in the Tokoroa 
Hospital, including his wife Sheila, 
when he fell to the ground minutes 
into his act.
The audience thought the col­
lapse was part of the act — except 
his wife, who tried to get up to help 
him, despite being partly paralyzed.
“Everyone thought it was part of 
the act, but of course she knew it 
wasn’t,” said his son, John Watson.
Doctors spent 45 minutes trying 
to revive Watson, 69, without suc­
cess.
John Watson said his father died 
doing what he loved. His magician 
idols had been escape artist Houdini 
and Englishman Tommy Cooper, 
who also died while performing.
Watson was a former member of 
England’s Bognor Regis Magic
Circle and gave performances for 
charity since he retired 15 years ago.
Mozambique 
woes continue
CHIBUTO, Mozambique (AP) — 
Despite a massive multinational 
effort to distribute food to 
Mozambican flood victims, thou­
sands of people are going hungry, 
aid workers said Saturday.
An estimated 360,000 people, dri­
ven from their homes by the worst 
floods on record in this southeast 
African nation, are being housed in 
aid camps in central and southern 
Mozambique. Despite several hitch­
es and logistical problems, most of 
them receive at least one meal a day.
However, thousands of others 
whose homes were spared or who 
returned to their villages as flood 
waters receded also need food aid, 
said Abby Spring of the U.N. World 
Food Program.
The problem was evident in settle­
ments a short flight away from this 
small town about 125 miles north­
east of the capital Maputo: Villagers 
were drying and eating rotting 
maize and peanuts salvaged from
flooded fields. In the village of 
Mohambe, several children had pot 
bellies, and thinning or orange hair 
— clear symptoms of malnourish- 
ment.
The World Food Program has 
identified 12 areas near Chibuto 
where an estimated 18,500 people 
need aid. Getting food to them poses 
logistical problems because they are 
spread out and can only be accessed 
by helicopters, which are in short 
supply and tied up delivering food to 
the large camps.
“There are people scattered all 
along the river who are not being 
fed,” said Mark Jackson, a pilot 
working with the charity Airserv 
International, who has been doing 
aid drops in the Limpopo River val­
ley since the middle February this 
year. “Within five minutes flying, I 
can reach thousands of people [who 
need aid].”
The government said 492 people 
have died in the floods since early 
February and nearly 1.9 million 
acres of farmland have been dam­
aged. Large tracts of land remain 
under water, and with the rainy sea­
son scheduled to last until the end of 
the month, there are fears of yet 
more flooding.
NORTH OAKLAND
214 North Craig Street 
Furnished Efficiency Apts.
- Renovated - Air Conditioning
- Wall to Wall Carpeting - Secure Building
- Heat and Water Included - $485 and up
1 bedroom, furnished (from $560), 
unfurnished (heat and water included)
Mature/Graduate Students 
Parking Available
Days: 682-1194 
Evenings: 731-0450
BERMAN CHIROPRACTIC OFFICE 
128 N. Craig Street 
(Park Plaza Bldg. between CMU and PITT)
Now offering to NEW PATIENTS 
Complementary FIRST VISIT !!
Berman Chiropractic has been servicing the CMU and PITT communities for the past 17 years.
So, now is your chance to try Chiropractic and see how we can help with your 
Health problems.
Please Call For An Appointment... today !!
687-1112
WE ACCEPT BC/BS, UPMC, AON SELECT AND 700 OTHER INSURANCES

---------------------------------------------------

THE TARTAN » MARCH 20, 20003
Crime and Incident Report
3/11 LIQUOR LAW VIOLATION, 4:12 pm — A
wallet was found on the grounds of an elementary 
school campus and returned- to Campus Police via 
Pittsburgh Police because it contained a CMU identifi­
cation. After examining the wallet to determine identi­
fication, two driver’s liceneses were found. One 
showed the actor as being 21 years of age and the other 
showed 19. After consulting DMV records in both New 
Jersey and Pennsylvania the actor was found to be 19 
and only have a valid license in Pennsylvania. The actor 
was cited for carrying a false identification and the 
license was returned to the New Jersey DMV.
3/15 UNKNOWN CHEMICAL SPILL, 7:11 pm
— Campus Police was dispatched to a possible chemi­
cal spill in the basement of Roberts Engineering Hall 
(REH). While conducting a routine building lockup, a 
security guard entered the basement of REH and felt a 
slight burning sensation in his throat. The guard also 
observed an unknown liquid dripping onto the floor 
near two tanks of corrosive material. The area was 
cleared and Environmental Health & Safety (EH&S) 
was notified of the situation and CMU EMS was also 
dispatched to evaluate the guard. EH&S determined 
that the leak was water from a drain pipe. FMS 
plumbers were dispatched and the situation will be 
repaired as soon as parts become available.
3/16 THEFT, 6:17 pm — Campus Police reported 
to Entropy where an employee stated that a theft had 
occured. The actor put a Nutri Grain Bar into his pock­
et and left the store without paying. Officers checked 
the area with negative results. After a further inter­
view, officers advised the employee to call Campus 
Police if the actor returns so he can be charged with 
Retail Theft.
3/16 INSTITUTIONAL VANDALISM, 5:19 pm
— A passerby reported to an officer that someone had
scribbled graffiti throughout the men’s room on the 
second floor of the University Center. After a full inves­
tigation, officers determined that the handicapped 
stall had been vandalized. CPS was contacted and stat­
ed that they try to keep the bathrooms as clean from 
graffitti as possible.
3/11 ELEVATOR ENTRAPMENT, 4:30 pm — A
call was received at the communications center detail­
ing aperson stuck in the Doherty Hall elevator. Officers 
responded and determined that it was too risky to 
attempt a rescue out of the elevator. The elevator oper­
ating company was called and after one hour the victim 
was freed. The elevator company then stayed to service 
said elevator.
3/11 OPEN LEWDNESS, 12:11 am — During a 
routine patrol of the fraternity quadrangle, officers 
came upon an actor urinating on the patio of a house. 
After the actor was finished, officers issued the actor 
an internal citation for the offense. The actor was 
intoxicated as indicated by his slurred speech and 
unsteady gait.
• Campus Chief of Police James Lapaglia reviews all reports prior to release.
0 Only three people on The Tartan staff see the reports: the Editor-in-Chief the News Editor, and the staffwriter typing the report.• All personal names of complainants, victims, sus-, pects, and fraternities are omitted from the printed report. Ethnic descriptions and other personal details are given only in the context of complete descriptions.
• Not every incident that occurs appears in the report.
Compiled by 
Bryan Kaplan
Room reservation to undergo changes
by Sara StilleNews Editor
While many students have com­
plained that the current method of 
reserving rooms is difficult and inef­
ficient, the room reservation system 
on campus will soon be changing to 
a more Web-based, networked pro­
gram.
Recently many students and orga­
nizations have been complaining 
the reserving rooms for meetings 
and events on campus has been very 
difficult. Administrators are now 
attempting to come up with an 
effective solution’to the problem.
Carolyn Manley, the Scheduling 
Coordinator for the University 
Center, said that the school has been 
working with a program designer 
for over a year to come up with a 
program that will make room reser­
vation easier for the individual user. 
The new software is called 
“Resource 25” and will be imple­
mented over spring break.
The program will eventually 
allow the user to log on to a comput­
er and look at a layout of rooms in 
the University Center. It will show
the individual the times and rooms 
available. Used rooms will be shad­
ed gray and open rooms will be 
white. The user will then be able to 
send an email to Manley with the 
request.
According to Manley, the new sys­
tem should speed up the reservation 
process. “We will be able to keep 
better records and speed up our 
response time,” said Manley. The 
new system will be networked so 
that more than one person can be 
working on confirming and updat­
ing the reservations onthe adminis­
trative side.
“We had a good conversation 
about where we are and where we 
are going with the room reservation 
system. We are headed toward an 
online, read-only, and Web access to 
room reservations by students, fac­
ulty, and staff,” said William Elliot, 
the vice president of Enrollment.
Student Senate is also working on 
ideas for improving the system by 
putting services online. “We are 
working on something that will look 
at the space needed by the organiza­
tion and then offer suggestions,” 
said Nick Fitzkee, a junior physics 
major and the Campus Affairs chair
for Student Senate. “The problem is 
that there aren’t more than 20 
rooms in the UC, but, because it is a 
centralized place, it is in demand. 
We are looking to alleviate some of 
the pressure on the UC by suggest­
ing other buildings on campus.” 
Shannon Sisk, a junior chemical 
engineering major, reserves rooms 
for Society of Women Engineers’ 
meetings and has experienced 
inconveniences finding rooms with 
the current system. “It is important 
to be able to see what is available 
and to have confirmation within a 
reasonable amount of time. An 
online system would be more conve­
nient,” said Sisk. “It’s been really 
difficult to find available rooms. It’s 
not really the UC’s fault. There are 
just so many organizations trying to 
book rooms.”
Manley said that all of the rooms 
are just first-come-first serve. There 
aren’t.any priorities given for cer­
tain organizations over another.
Manley, Fitzkee, Elliot, and 
Marcia Gerwig, the University 
Center Director, are continuing to 
meet to discuss the issue and come 
up with the best solution for room 
reservations.
CMU names first woman vice president
mething to 
He about!
. Ie4ulE4W l+EMM e4ceMos0 m+e dooI u0 -o2gde 02ddo249e9 w- 0sEdEm0 oA m+e 9eu93 
@eud ldees0 2s -o2d 0sE4e3 p4M- o4e m+E4W lu4 0uce -o23
v+e +o20eMEW+m03
The Weir by Conor McPherson Directed by Edward Gilbert 
Now thru April 9 O'Reilly Theater, Downtown 
WINNER OF THE 1999 OLIVIER AWARD FOR 
BEST NEW PLAY. FOR TICKETS CALL (412) 316-1600
Carnegie Mellon’s campus radio station, WRCT, took the opportunity to display its talent outside the University 
Center during the spring-like weather last week. The station played all types of music to entertain passing stu­
dents and celebrate the weather.VP, from page 1
that gender was rarely a factor of 
discrimination. “I don’t have any 
sense of being treated in any distinct 
way with my gender and frankly, [I 
am] really impressed with the 
search process. [They] focused on 
ideas and experience and how I 
might fit in to CMU. They focus on 
talent,” Kosak said. She added that 
no one has made her feel like a spe­
cial candidate because of her gen­
der. “It’s really proving yourself. 
Fortunately I have been able to do 
that.”
William Elliot, vice president of 
Enrollment and chairman of the 
search committee, said that differ­
ences add to the unique environ­
ment of CMU. “We like to have peo­
ple who have had a variety of back­
ground. A person with differences 
leads to continued improvement at 
CMU,” said Elliot. According to 
Elliot, there have to be new ways to 
open oneself and new ways to 
achieve success. There are certain 
issues in Development that directly 
affect Enrollment. This is where 
one needs to work past boundaries. 
Elliot said someone who had experi­
ence in complex research was need­
ed to handle the many constituents 
of the University as well as corpo­
rate relations. Kosak has worked in 
many other complex institutions.
“I love beijig back at Carnegie 
Mellon because there is such a high 
level of creativity and intelligence 
that is not bounded by discipline or 
the school. That says to me that 
Carnegie Mellon University can con­
tinue to rise to become one of the 
very best in the world, but it can still 
maintain a sense of distinctive iden-
PITTSBURGH
THEATER
www.ppt.org
DUQ 90.5 FM Jiittfllmrgb
‘Available in advance for Sun. thru Thurs. evenings and matinees. 
One hour before performance for Fri. and Sat. evenings. Valid ID required.
Contains adult language.
The O'Reilly is a theater of The Pittsburgh Cultural Trust.
courtesy bruce uerson
Robbee Kosak has taken the position of vice president of Development and 
Alumni Relations. She is the first woman vice president at CMU.
10% Courtesy for CMU Students and Faculty 
Take the CMCI shuttle to our front door • 200 North Craig Street
tity,” said Kosak.
According to Kosak, her previous 
experience at CMU set the pace for 
the work she has done the past 20 
years. “I did not have the honor of 
earning a CMU degree, but I consid­
er CMU my professional alma mater 
and I am very proud of that,” she 
said.
Kosak graduated from 
Pennsylvania State University
Summa Cum Laude in Industrial 
and Family Studies. Her first job 
following graduation was working 
as a Juvenile Probation Officer. “I 
ultimately wanted a career that 
had a positive view. I came to work 
here at Carnegie Mellon.” Prior to 
her current position here at the 
University, Kosak was at 
Rensselaer Polytechnic Institute in 
Troy, NY.
Call 681-8011
Ask about our CMCI 
Dental Plan!
Gentle Airjet Dentist 
Prompt Emergency Car 
Personaliz

---------------------------------------------------

In addition to our Dogs, Burgers, Fries, and Subs, try our
HEW MENU ITEMS:
Baked Potatoes 
Onion Rings 
Reubens 
Shrimp Basket 
Fish Sandwich 
Fresh Salads 
Jalapeno Beef 
Portabella Burgers
Wing Dings 
Chicken Clubs Corned Beef Sandwich 
Chicken Parmesan Sandwich 
Cheese Sticks 
Grilled Chicken Sandwich 
Pastrami Sandwiches 
Roast Beef Sandwiches
Also new at the O:
DELIVERY
\7 ^
on DineEx and Campus Funds and Department Charges*
SElB 2s u Ie42 um eEm+ed 
pdEWE4uM $om LoW 8+os 
5,RG od puBMu49P
SENNuk bE4W0k ,+ElBe4 
8u49CEl+e0k 8suW+emmE 
LE44ed0k u49 Iode3
$om mo Ie4mEo4 $om LoW0k 
@de4l+ @dEe0k D2dWed0k 
u49 8meuB $ouWEe03
PHONE 687-8327 
5pm - 2am Daily
* $8.00 minimum
DRV OF flEUJ
music
WEDilESDAV, mflRCH 29 7PÍT1
Heinz HALL
Don’T miss Coul CELEBRATion db fieuu music FROm
new composERS THE TA
LOCAL TALEflT FERTURIflG
Duquesne's Contemporary Music Ensemble 
CMU's Contemporary Music Ensemble 
Pitt's Music on the Edge Ensemble 
and the Pittsburgh Symphony Orhcestra.
new music FRom new composERS
TICKETS 0Í1LV $2!!
CALL 412.392.4900
Present I RNProoo
Come hear what successful entrepreneurs, leading investors and lawyers have to say about kicking off a startup.
Get their answers and opinions on your specific questions.
Network with them and other entrepreneurial-minded attendees, one-on-one, over quality hors d’oeuvres and drinks!
dGAMLyyy:AM1vbp7TR: U
ve44E Volumem942E‘AMll0DlffiREflTlflTIIIGAMMAMfyAM:yAM:
:7pbv$
WHERE TO CET YOUR UIOIIEY 
ADD UiHflT COmES I3IITH IT
BATE: April 5, 2000 
TIME: 5-7 pm 
LOCATION: Simon 
Auditorium, GSIA
This panel will introduce 
the various funding 
options available to an 
entrepreneur and 
highlight the benefits, 
process and preparation 
entailing each option.
HOOKING UP WITH THE 
RIGHT PEOPIE
DATE: April 12, 2000 
TIME: 5-7 pm 
LOCATION: Singleton 
Room, Roberts Hall
This panel will give 
insights into how the 
core team of a startup 
is formed. It will discuss 
the roles that emerge 
and evolve as a new 
company grows and how 
entrepreneurs attract 
and compensate the 
right people for these 
roles.
EXPANDING YOUR 
OPPORTUNITIES
©ATE: April 19,2000 
TIME: 5 - 7 pm 
LOCATION: Singleton 
Room, Roberts Hall
This panel will bring 
forth the risks, rewards 
and challenges a startup 
faces in strategic 
alliances. It will discuss 
how to evaluate a 
potential alliance and 
negotiate a win-win 
situation.
ITRADIAG OUT Ifl R CROWD
DATE: April 26,2000 
TIME: 5 - 7 pm 
LOCATION: Singleton 
Room, Roberts Hall
This panel will illuminate 
the intricacies in 
developing a sound marketing plan. It will 
discuss marketing and 
sales issues involved in 
bringing a product to 
market ana create an 
understanding of the 
competitive market­
place.
ITRY1AGOA TOP Of THE 
CHROf
BATE: May 3, 2000 
TIME: 5 - 7 pm 
LOCATION: Singleton 
Room, Roberts Hall
This panel will deal with 
the challenges in 
managing a growing 
startup. It will discuss 
issues such as internal 
communication, 
knowledge management 
and organizational 
structure that surface 
in a growing company.
'Brought to ijou by....
Free admission for CMU students, staff and faculty 
$3 admission charge per panel for outsiders
For more information contact e0EmeOu49deC3lI23e92ESITE
Technology Entrepreneurship
at Carnegie Mellon University

---------------------------------------------------

THE TARTAN « MARCH 20, 20005
Remodeled meal plans bring mixed student reviews
MEALS, from page 1
quality will increase,” said Tsang.
Some students have questions as to whether or 
not this is a good change. There is worry that the 
process might be too complicated. “I think that it 
could work out, but it seems as if not everyone 
will always want to use $5.50 on a meal. 
Sometimes you just want something small, but 
maybe they will account for that somehow,” said 
first-year art major Ross Christy. “I also think 
that having Highlander as an all-you-can-eat
option is good, and they can make it better with­
out making it a la carte.”
Nanda Chassot, a first-year student in design, 
echoes these sentiments. “If the quality of the 
food here improves, it will be valuable, but if not, 
it will be a rip-off. I think these meal plans are 
too complex. They should keep things simple.” 
Tsang said that the SDC food committee has 
received positive feedback so far, and they are 
working on “incremental changes right now.” 
Another important part of the meal plans for
this semester has to do with off-campus eating 
options. As promised, the Subway on South 
Craig Street is finally accepting Dine Xpress as a 
method of payment, along with the “O” in 
Oakland and Eat ’n Park on Murray Avenue in 
Squirrel Hill, which will combat a common com­
plaint of many students: not being able to spend 
all their Dine Xpress money. “We want to con­
tinue to get more off campus places online next 
semester,” said Tsang. “This way, it will be easi­
er for students to use up their money.”
IMMIGRATION LAW
GREEN CARDS-EMPLOYMENT VISAS- POST GRADUATE RESEARCH EMPLOYMENT
20 YEARS EXPERIENCE 
ATTORNEY S. SANFORD KANTZ 
724-658-2313
m STANFORDFFyyy SUMMER SESSION
June 20 through 
August 12, 2000
G49edWdu90 q :du92ume 8m29e4m0
• Fulfill a distribution or general education requirement
• Accelerate progress towards your degree or minor
• Live on campus — 35 miles south of San Francisco
• Over 200 classes offered in more than 50 departments
Courses such as: Physics, Economics, Biology,
Engineering, Music, Computer Science, Philosophy, Drama, 
Classics, Athletics, Literature, History, Intensive Languages, 
Chemistry, Psychology, Mathematics, Anthropology
iikt Vw 
Hmmtr &Dnnt
Earn College Credit at WCCC
• Convenient sessions with no Friday classes
May 15 - June 22 (6 weeks)
May 15 - August 3(12 weeks)
June 26 - August 3 (6 weeks)
• Credits transfer to colleges and universities 
throughout the U.S.
• 5 convenient locations
Stanford University 
Summer Session 
Building 590, Ground Floor 
Stanford, CA 94305-3005 
(6503 723-3109. Fax: (650) 725-6080 
Email: summersession@stanford.edu 
Web: summersession.stanford.edu
For a FREE catalogue, send your:
Name____________________
Address__________________
City, ST, ZIP________________
Email___________
CMU 1/IQ
Circle: Undergrad
Tuition is only $48 per credit for Westmoreland 
County residents, one of the best values in 
Pennsylvania.
fee
Summer Schedule on Web
vww.vrcstmoreland.cc.pa.us
or call 1-600-262-2103
WESTMORELAND COUNTY 
COMMUNITY COLLEGEArt affirmative ari inn, equal opportunity college.
News Briefs
Students plan 
CMU TV 
channel
Several Carnegie Mellon students 
are currently working to start a CMU 
news channel consisting of current 
news, sports, announcements, and 
events. Student Dormitory Council 
(SDC) is working with Shane Miner, 
a junior in humanities and arts, and 
Brian Mendelssohn, a fifth-year 
senior in materials science and engi­
neering.
“We’re still working out our con­
nection with SDC,” said Miner, who 
has been discussing the issue with 
Koichiro Nakatsu, the SDC president 
and sophomore biology major, and 
Edward Chuang, a first-year student 
in H&SS and SDC communications 
chair. “It’s not important where I’m 
working or who with. I just want to 
be involved in the news.” Miner has 
been working on the project for over 
a month now and hopes to have the 
first pilot on the air in four or five 
weeks.
“The Student Dormitory Council 
is working hard on making this a 
complete channel,” said Chuang. He 
said SDC wants to produce quality 
news and sports events, and broad­
cast campus-wide events. Chuang 
said he hopes they will be able to 
bring together different organiza­
tions on campus and provide an out­
let for students, staff, and faculty.
The channel’s organizers are cur­
rently looking for writers, camera 
operators, editors, and achormen. 
“SDC is finalizing its list of action 
items, including ... production, 
equipment, stories, etc. We will 
begin taping as soon as possible,” 
said Chuang.
Miner said they would probably 
have to do taped shows in the begin­
ning, but that he hoped they would 
eventually move to live shows. He 
wants to start out with a 30-minute 
news program once a week and then 
move from there.
Concert 
broadcasted 
over Web
While listeners have been experi­
encing WQED-FM on the Web for 
over three years, Carnegie Mellon is 
now introducing new technology 
that will allow a significandy larger 
number of people to listen via the 
Web.
The radio and Web broadcast will 
¦ be a concert by the Carnegie Mellon 
Chamber Orchestra, conducted by 
Andres Cardenes, concert master of 
the Pittsburgh Symphony Orchestra 
and recently-named University 
Professor at Carnegie Mellon. 
Featured soloists in the concert will
be Cardenes and violinists Carolyn 
Juebl and Blythe Teh.
The actual concert took place on 
Saturday, March 18, but the radio 
and Web broadcasts will take place 
on Sunday March 19 and Thurday 
March 23.
The Website for the broadcast will 
also feature an “Audio on Demand” 
link, allowing listeners from all over 
the world to listen to the concert not 
only at the time of the broadcast, 
but also at any time after the concert 
has taken place. The audio demand 
link will be available the evening of 
Monday, March 20 for this particu­
lar concert.
This project is a pilot with the 
Networked Media Group at 
Carnegie Mellon.
Robotics 
open house 
showcases 
advances
Carnegie Mellon’s National 
Robotics Engineering Consortium 
(NREC), assisted by the 
Pittsburgh Robotics Initiative 
(PRI), will host Pittsburgh 
Robotics Day on Monday, March 
20. The day will be a celebration 
and showcase of robotics technol­
ogy and industry in western . 
Pennsylvania.
Robotics has recently experi­
enced a rebirth in the region. As 
many as 80 companies and the 
NREC are involved in robotic and 
automation-related’ technologies 
in the area.
The PRI, which is located at 
Carnegie Mellon Research 
Institute, was funded with a grant 
from the Heinz Foundation. Its 
goal is to make western 
Pennsylvania as synonymous 
with robotics and automation as it 
was with steel.
The NREC began with an initial 
$3 million grant from NASA in 
1996. It had three sponsors and 
focused on projects in agriculture, 
excavation, and materials han­
dling. Today the consortium’s sci­
entists are working with more 
than 18 companies on projects 
including automated harvester 
control, forktruck automation, 
machine sensors and controls, 
and automated turf care.
Monday’s event will allow visi­
tors to see exhibits and demon­
strations illustrating the growth 
of robotics in the western 
Pennsylvania area. There will be 
30 companies participating, in 
addition to CMU, the University 
of Pittsburgh, and Pennsylvania 
State University.
Compiled by 
Sara Stille
Professor receives Dickson 
Prize in science from CMU
PITTSBURGH(AP) - Carnegie 
Mellon University will award its 
$50,000 Dickson Prize in Science to 
Howard Raiffa, a Harvard 
University professor who is a pio­
neer in the field of decision analysis.
As part of this award, Raiffa will 
deliver a lecture at 4:30 pm on 
Tuesday, April 4, in the McConomy 
Auditorium of the University Center 
on Carnegie Mellon’s campus. The 
lecture, titled “Analytical Roots of a 
Decision Scientist,” is free and open 
to the public.
Raiffa is an applied mathemati­
cian who works on complex deci­
sion problems. Through his 
research, teaching, and writing, he 
pursues ways that analysis can help 
individuals or groups make better 
decisions.
Since 1957, Raiffa has been a 
member of the Harvard faculty, 
where he holds the Frank P. Ramsey 
Chair in Managerial Economics — a 
chair supported by the Graduate 
School of Business Administration 
and the Kennedy School of 
Government. A pioneer in the cre­
ation of the field known as decision 
analysis, his research interests span 
statistical decision theory, game 
theory, behavioral decision theory, 
risk analysis, and negotiation analy­
sis.
The author of 11 books, Raiffa’s 
newest work is Collaborative Decision Making. Another book, Smart Choices, was the Center for
Public Resources (CPR) Institute for 
Dispute Resolution’s Book of the 
Year in 1998.
His many honors and awards 
include the Distinguished 
Contribution Award from the 
Society of Risk Analysis, the Frank P. 
Ramsey Medal for outstanding con­
tributions to the field of decision 
analysis from the Operations 
Research Society of America, and 
the Melamed Prize from the 
University of Chicago Business 
School for an outstanding work of 
scholarship titled “The Art and 
Science of Negotiation.” He earned 
a Gold Medal from the International 
Association for Conflict 
Management and a Lifetime 
Achievement Award from the CPR 
Institute for Dispute Resolution.
Raiffa earned his bachelor's 
degree in mathematics, his master's 
degree in statistics, and his PhD in 
mathematics at the University of 
Michigan.
Carnegie Mellon presented Raiffa 
with an honorary degree in 1988. 
He also holds honorary doctoral 
degrees from the University of 
Michigan, Northwestern University, 
and Ben Gurion University of the 
Negev.
The Dickson Prize in Science was 
established through the philan­
thropy of the late Dr. Joseph Z. 
Dickson, a Pittsburgh physician, and 
Agnes Fisher Dickson, his wife.
Design department works to improve programs
the Drama department to move out of Margaret Morrison and free up 
some studio space.
Overall, Buchanan feels that the design program is highly interdiscipli­
nary - perhaps more than any other school in the College of Fine Arts - 
•because it encompasses humanities, engineering, computer science, robot­
ics, business, and the social and behavior sciences. “This is a great campus 
for doing this type of interdisciplinary work because everyone is open to 
make these kind of connections,” said Buchanan.
First-year design student Alyson Madrigan agrees that CMU is a great 
school for opportunities in different departments. “It’s located within a 
university, so there is plenty of opportunity to do other things. Also, it’s a 
small program so you get to know your classmates and professors really 
well,” said Madrigan.
“The design program at CMU doesn’t try to shape us into carbon copies 
of one another. It allows us to develop as individuals, which makes us bet­
ter designers,” said Kristina Critchlow, a first-year student in design.
Buchanan feels that design is becoming very important in everyday life 
as the need for an understanding of production becomes greater. 
Designers work to plan and construct artifacts that are appropriate to 
human situations - drawing from all areas of arts and sciences. Buchanan 
feels that it is this focus that makes design such a well-rounded degree.
Richard Buchanan received his BA and PhD from University of Chicago and 
is now a professor and the head of the design department at CMU.
DESIGN, from page 1
other fields in a way most majors can’t.”
Unlike the research degree that the PhD will offer, the Master’s program 
is a terminal profession degree, the final step for a student’s practice 
degree. Buchanan feels the Master’s program here has been extremely 
successful thus far, and hopes the doctoral program achieves the same 
level of success.
The implementation of the design PhD program is being coordinated 
! with the Human Computer Interaction Institute (HCII), which is also 
beginning a doctoral program in the fall. “We are going to touch on the 
same problems but approach them from a different direction,” said 
Buchanan. He served on the board that developed the PhD program for 
HCII and has brought that experience to the design department.
In addition to these changes, the undergraduate level has also seen some 
recent improvements. Design studios are currently located in Porter, 
College of Fine Arts, and Margaret Morrison, but the goal is to eventually 
have the entire design department in Margaret Morrison. “We were in 
temporary space in Baker for more than ten years so we’ve been very grate­
ful for the building of Purnell,” said Buchanan. This construction caused
Katie Aeml/Photo Staff
The design department is currently working to make improvements to the 
undergraduate program, including consolidating studios to Margaret Morrison 
and working on remodeling.
Resigning provost examines progress made during tenure
PROVOST, from page 1
what the curriculum should be, beginning in the 
College of Engineering. * The goal of the profes­
sors was to utilize the offerings of other colleges 
throughout the University. The result, according 
to Christiano, was the creation of cross-college 
programs such as the BHA program.
“There is far more collaboration now,” said 
Christiano. “There has been a maturation and 
evolution of the University. When you start to 
look at education for undergraduates you begin 
to see so many other possibilities if you don’t
focus on [only] your own department.” 
Christiano noted many differences in educa­
tion which took place in the last 10 years. 
Investment in teaching has increased, as well as 
the quality and retention of students. The goal 
now for the University is to meet rising expecta­
tions. “This requires more resources,” he said. 
“Almost anything would create a better institu­
tion ... [but] what are you going to pick, and 
how are you going to manage?”
Christiano again emphasized the role of tech­
nology in education. “Technology will be able to
provide other technologies such as simulation 
and visualization,” he said. He pointed out, 
however, that the University should carefully 
consider how technology is used. According to 
Christiano, faculty spent a long time trying to 
determine what people should learn and how 
they should learn it. “Students [should] have 
the tools that they need to learn. The University 
is rich in energy in a spirit of collaborations. A 
lot of things are achievable. [We should] recog­
nize and tap into our strengths,” said 
Christiano.

---------------------------------------------------

Forum
20 March 2000THE TARTANPage 6
Airline must avoid shutdown
After over three years of negotiations, US 
Airways and the Association of Flight 
Attendants (AFA), the union that repre­
sents all US Airways flight attendants, have 
not reached a contract settlement. If they 
do not reach a settlement by midnight this 
Friday, US Airways has vowed that it will 
shut down all its routes. This will drastical­
ly inconvenience students flying home for 
spring break. More importandy, it will also 
have a detrimental effect on Pittsburgh’s 
economy. A total shutdown of US Airways 
should be avoided at all costs, and perhaps 
a government injunction is in order.
The AFA has publicly stated that it will 
implement a program known as Create 
Havoc Around Our System (CHAOS) if a 
settlement is not reached by midnight on 
March 24. CHAOS is a system under which 
flight attendants would strike flights at 
random, rather than all at once. However, 
the airline has stated that if a settlement is 
not reached, all routes will be shut down. 
The airline justifies this action because 
they do not want to subject their customers 
to the sporadic cancellation of flights. 
However, while the airline is seemingly 
concerned about customers, they do not 
seem to realize the effects a shutdown 
would have on the local business.
One of US Airways’ three main hubs is 
located in Pittsburgh, and it is a vital com­
ponent of the city’s economy.
If the airline shuts down, it would lose an 
estimated $35 million each day, totalling 
nearly $250 million in the first week. Even if
the company did not shut down, the AFA 
would conduct its program of random 
strikes, forcing customers to fly on alterna­
tive airlines. The outcome is the same: US 
Airways would lose money, and the company 
only has $500 million in reserves with which 
they would be able to survive a shutdown.
Thus, the future of the airline is in jeop­
ardy. With 11,000 employees in and 
around the metropolitan area, from pilots 
to maintenance crews, a strike or shut­
down could lead to future layoffs. It will, at 
the very least, temporarily cripple business 
coming in and out of Pittsburgh, as well. 
Thousands of residents rely on US Airways 
so they can conduct their day-to-day oper­
ations. Also, Pittsburgh’s reputation as an 
important center for business will be 
marred. If US Airways shuts down tem­
porarily or permanendy, fewer corpora­
tions might choose to route their flights 
through the city’s airport, and several of 
the city’s businesses will lose money.
It is important that US Airways consider 
not only the welfare of its customers, but 
also the welfare of its employees and of the 
cities in which it is based. When American 
Airlines’ pilots were striking last year, the 
government stepped in by issuing an 
injunction. This allowed negotiations to 
continue for up to 60 days, during which 
time the airline had to remain running. As 
a result, the pilots and managers were able 
to come to an agreement. The government 
should step in once again so that US 
Airways does not shut down.
AIDS quilt deserves attention
This week students will have a worth­
while reason to peer out of dorm rooms 
and clusters. Student Life and the Student 
Dormitory Council (SDC) are bringing a 
section of the AIDS Quilt, a tribute to vic­
tims of the disease, to campus. As a result, 
students will be exposed to what might be 
one of the most emotional and rewarding 
things they will ever see.
SDC is putting $3000 towards the fund­
ing of the quilt’s visit and Student Life has 
planned extensively in order for the quilt to 
be on campus. Seventeen 12’ x 12’ panels 
will come to CMU from Wheeling, WV, 
beginning with an unfolding ceremony 
today at 4:30 pm where professors and 
organization leaders each unfold a panel 
of the quilt. The Pittsburgh AIDS Task 
Force will also donate AIDS ribbons, dis­
plays of information, and condoms.
The AIDS quilt has been touring the 
world since 1987 and has now been seen 
by over 13 million people. It can stretch 
across 17 football fields with over 42,000 
panels sewn in tribute to victims of HIV. 
The quilt has raised over $2.65 million in 
services for AIDS sufferers, and has 
increased awareness of the illness.
AIDS support groups on campus such as 
AdvocAIDS, which was started almost 
three years ago, have disappeared because 
of lack of support, and there are still many 
students that are unaware of causes and 
effects of the disease. For this reason, it is 
important that students make the effort to 
see the quilt.
Most students go day to day without real­
ly knowing the damaging effects of AIDS 
because it doesn’t directly affect them. 
According to Health Services, there are no 
reported AIDS cases at CMU, and students 
seem to forget about the devastation of the
virus in places like Africa, the former Soviet 
Union, and areas of the United States.
With recent advances in drug cocktails 
aimed at treating AIDS, the media has por­
trayed the disease as manageable and on 
the decline. However, very few people that 
have the disease can actually afford the 
drugs. Students need to know that the dis­
ease is still as widespread and devastating 
as ever, and they still need to be careful in 
prevention of AIDS.
Sub-Saharan Africa alone holds 70% of 
the global total of HIV-positive people. 
Almost 14 million Africans have already 
been lost to AIDS and over 23 million are 
currently living with it. In the former Soviet 
Union, HIV infections have doubled in the 
past two years because of drug injections.
While these outbreaks may seem distant, 
students are also living in a time where 
roughly half of all people who acquire HIV 
become infected before they turn 25 years 
old. In a study conducted from July 1997 to 
June 1998,13-24 year-olds made up 40% of 
reported AIDS cases and it is reported that
7,000 young people worldwide are infected 
with HIV every day. Thus, more than ever, 
college students need to be aware of what is 
happening to their own age group.
Students should become educated and 
aware of this far-reaching and devastating 
disease in order to prevent it from continu­
ing to grow. In bringing the AIDS Quilt to 
campus, students will be able to come face- 
to-face with this terrible reality.
While the quilt has been to campus in the 
past, including a visit just two years ago, 
attendance to the event has been lacking. 
If everyone could find ten minutes in their 
day to go and see the AIDS Quilt, they 
would take a positive step towards stop­
ping the terrible epidemic.
THE TARTAN
Carnegie Mêlions Student Newspaper Since igo6
EDITORIAL BOARD
ISH HARSHAWAT, Editor-in-Chief 
SETH MANDEL, Managing Editor 
SARA STILLE, News Editor 
CHRISTOPHER MAY, Forum Editor 
CHRISTOPHER CHUNG, Sports Editor 
JOANNA SMILEY, Arts & Living Editor 
SRIRAM GOLLAPALLI, Science & Technology Ed.
BRAD GRANTZ, Business Editor 
GREG NOFI, Entertainment Editor 
JUSTIN SUISSA, Art Editor 
BRYAN KAPLAN, Photo Editor 
MICHAEL ZIMMER, Dossier Design Editor 
LAURA MARTIN, Dossier Co-Literary Editor 
JOSEPH TAGUE, Dossier Co-Literary Editor 
JENNIFER LIU, Advertising Manager 
BALAJI SARPESHKAR, Copy Manager 
BLAKE ENGEL, Personnel Manager 
LANCE BROWN, Co-Production Manager 
CHRIS MESSINA, Co-Production Manager
ASHA PATHAK, Business Manager 
KAI ZHENG, Systems Manager 
BETTY KIM, Darkroom Manager 
MATT BRUN, Special Projects Manager 
ASEEM GUPTA, Webmaster 
SHAINA MCGRATH, Photo Staff Manager 
LAINE TOWEY, Assistant News Editor 
BETH POWELL, Asst. Entertainment Editor 
GABRIEL SABOURIN, Asst. Art Editor 
LILY AHN, Asst. Advertising Manager
CONTRIBUTING EDITORS 
Kristine Andreassen, Kevin Babbitt, Elaine Boland, 
Anthony Chao, Behnam Farahpour, Bradley Fearn, 
Rebecca Fribush, Derek Greentree, Cassandra 
Knight, Lorelei Laird, Lisette Miller-Dixon, 
Jonathan Pearce, Anne Ray, Brian Smith, Nathan 
Steinwald
Forumpamog 
jz\v0 .M7^AMS'
CAbJcVÑ r AKJíBLUEDRA HAtAAS CANCcLtfcD
?AMPA CANCETLl^D
byThyeUnivCHICAGO ÉANCWJ®CANCeU-ED
SASKATCHEWAN CANCCLV-fTWA
New VOWK ONTIMÊ
Letters to the Editor
Fence falsely painted
Editor:
The weekend of March 11th, the Fence 
and the trees next to it were painted 
with the greek letters of Alpha Phi 
Omega. Though the Fence was painted 
with APhiO’s letters, our organization 
did not paint the fence or the trees. The 
Fence painting was for an event we did
not sponsor and seems to have been 
intended as a prank or insult. As of yet, 
we are unsure as to who is responsible 
for this.
We found the Fence painted at 7:30 
Saturday morning with offensive material, 
as well as our name. We did smear some of 
the paint on the Fence, which was still wet, 
to cover the most offensive material. We 
had 400 Boy Scouts arriving at 8 am for one 
of our large service projects and did not feel
Justin Suissa/Art Editor
it was appropriate.
The Fence is an important part of 
Carnegie Mellon’s tradition and should 
not be abused. We would like to ask that, 
in the future, students only paint the 
fence for organizations to which they 
belong.
Michael Creegan 
Corresponding Secretary 
Alpha Phi Omega, Kappa Chapter
CMU’s abundant fees discourage school spirit
Sean Mintus
I have such fond memories of high 
school: dances, snow 
days, substitute teach­
ers, drug raids, and 
bomb threats. But I 
would have to say that 
some of my fondest rec­
ollections are a result of 
those magical Friday 
nights spent shivering in 
the stands and watching 
a bunch of guys run into 
each other. Yes, I loved 
my high school football 
games in all of their 
grandeur and adoles­
cent eminence.
So, upon arriving here 
at CMU, and disregard­
ing the fact that our 
team is named after fab­
ric, I attended a Tartan 
football game.
Suddenly, it was like 
high school all over 
again. Twenty-two iron­
clad warriors raged on 
the Astroturf battlefield, 
vying for honor and 
glory. The air smelled of 
sweat, blood, and Ben 
Gay as hardened gladia­
tors fought bravely to 
move a piece of dead 
hog 100 yards.
But aside from the 
customary testosterone­
laden violence, there 
was this feeling of empti­
ness. There was some­
thing missing. I couldn’t 
quite put my finger on it 
at first, but I knew there 
was something amiss.
Oh yeah, there weren’t any fans!
But, seriously, the only people not in uni­
form were myself, a few friends, the 
announcers, and several inebriated alumni 
who found it necessary to repeatedly 
scream “Give us hope, O’Malley” at the top 
of their lungs. I’m not making this up. 
They really were that belligerent.
So I started wondering why CMU’s stu­
dents would not want to come out and sup­
port their football team. It couldn’t possi­
bly have anything to do with not liking the 
players. I didn’t like my high school foot­
ball team. In fact, I actively disliked most of 
them and prayed every night to my own 
personal God for their horribly slow and 
painful deaths. That didn’t mean that I 
refused to support them in doing what they 
did best: sacrificing their bodies in order to 
inflict pain upon someone wearing a differ­
ent colored shirt. After all, rooting for a 
hated one of your own is better than root­
ing for an outsider.
And it’s not as if students don’t know 
where the stadium is. After all, it looks like 
the university dumped more money into 
Gesling than Scaife and the OSC put 
together. So why doesn’t anyone come to 
the football games? After careful delibera­
tion I decided that it has everything to do
with school spirit, or more importantly, the 
lack thereof.
Think about it. When was the last time 
you felt proud to be a [shudder] Tartan? 
When was the last time you actually rooted 
for a Carnegie Mellon athletic team that 
wasn’t pushing a buggy? When was the 
last time you ever felt your breast swelling 
with pride at the thought of fighting “for 
the glory of the clan?” Having trouble 
remembering? I figured as much.
I have come to realize that this school’s 
students, for the most part, are often so dis­
gusted with the way they are treated that 
they come to resent their school more than 
they love it. Am I the only person who finds 
something a bit disconcerting about this? 
Even Pitt’s students, whose football team 
hasn’t done anything noteworthy since 
Prohibition, had the common courtesy to 
show up to their final game at Panther 
Stadium, even if it was for the sole purpose 
of tearing down the place.
I suppose that there are reasons for our 
not holding this University in high esteem. 
After all, of the 22 schools ranked higher 
than Carnegie Mellon by US News and World Report, 15 have a lower tuition. Yep, 
not only do colleges like Stanford, Duke, 
Notre Dame, and Northwestern get higher 
rankings, but also stu­
dents who enjoy, 
respect, and admire 
their institutions — all 
for a lower .price. What a 
bargain! No wonder I 
have seen more people 
walking around this 
campus with MIT or 
Harvard shirts than I 
have with CMU shirts.
I really do think that our 
student body could look 
past the whole tuition 
issue if the school took 
better care of its students 
and didn’t try to remove 
a person’s soul via their 
wallet during their 
tenure here. I have yet to 
figure out why it cost me 
$68.00 to switch from a 
University meal plan to a 
fraternity meal plan; 
which, by the way, is of 
much higher quality and 
about half as expensive. 
It’s listed on my bill as 
“Admin. Frat. Fee,” 
which translates basical­
ly into “because we can.” 
I also find it amusing that 
after breaking my hand, 
going to Health Services, 
and getting told that 
“It’ll be okay, just wait 
until you go home again 
to have it checked out,” I 
was charged $9.00 for 
the brace that was put 
on to keep the bones 
from breaking any fur­
ther. Then I got to go 
home and have an actual physician tell me 
that I should have had it taken care of soon­
er— for free!
The bottom line is that this school needs 
to stop worrying about its reputation and 
start worrying about the emotional, physi­
cal, and financial well-being of its students. 
There is a reason that we have such a hor­
rid freshman retention rate. There is a rea­
son that, compared to the schools with 
which we compete, our alumni endowment 
is of Lilliputian size. There is a reason that 
the phrase most often uttered by seniors or 
graduates is “screw you, CMU.” And it ain’t 
the yellow brick, folks.
Sean Mintus is a first-year student profes­sional and creative writing major. He had hoped one day to be a sophomore, junior; and eventually senior professional and creative writing major; but after this column, things aren’t looking so good...
Gabriel Sabourln/Assistant Art Editor

---------------------------------------------------

THE TARTAN « MARCH 20, 20007
Taiwanese expose LeVar
Tofu Inhibits Sex
by Justin Suissa
City’s warm weather raises hairy issues
1980 was the year of the monkey 
and the year I was born. I don’t hold 
these two facts to be a coincidence, 
but instead a manifestation of fate. 
I read this week that Taiwan has 
defied China and elected Chen 
Shui-Bian for their new president. I 
think this is going to be a wonderful 
step towards independence for the 
Taiwanese. It will probably help 
them export more products that say 
‘Made in Taiwan,’ and maybe over­
take the number of products that 
say ‘Made In China.’ You might be 
thinking that China is a much larg­
er country than Taiwan, with a far 
greater population that could easily 
outproduce the Taiwanese.
However, it is important not to 
ignore history when we look at 
these seemingly insurmountable 
odds. For instance, when I was five 
I had the Lego police station playset 
and my friend down the street had 
the Lego airport playset. Since the 
airport was the larger and more 
expensive playset, I had to wait 
until Hanukkah a year later before I 
would have one of my own. Despite 
the disproportionate amount of 
Legos my friend had, I was able to 
[consistently produce more innova­
tive structures and vehicles with my 
Legos. I managed to do this by 
thinking outside the proverbial box 
and saying inspiring things to 
myself like “What would Fozzie 
Bear do?”.
Moving right along, I was think­
ing about who was the most power­
ful man in America the other day. 
The majority of people, when asked 
this question, would probably 
respond with answers like 
President Bill Clinton or Bill Gates. 
A few people who believe that they 
are extremely smart would come up 
with names of famous writers and 
social activists whose names I don’t 
know because I am ignorant. I, 
however, have come to the star­
tling, and somewhat disturbing rev­
elation that the most powerful man
in America is indeed LeVar Burton. 
LeVar Burton, through his program Reading Rainbow which airs on 
“public television,” and his role on Star Trek: The Next Generation has 
been able to. dictate the course of 
American literature and sunglass 
styles for the past 10 years. When 
LeVar Burton recommends a book 
to kids he says “You don’t have to 
take my word for it,” but you do. He 
has some five-year-old child who 
serves as his puppet and gives cre­
dence to that choice in books. This 
upsets most people, but when you 
think about it this guy has a lot of 
control over the young people in 
America. You might be thinking 
that parents could always change 
the channel or watch another show 
on television. Most kids, however, 
watch another show I won’t name, 
which focuses most of its attention 
on some colorful characters that 
hang out on the street, and don’t 
have jobs.
I was filling out a form the other 
day to secure a viable means of 
employment, and I began to won­
der why certain things qualify as 
being jobs and others don’t. For 
instance, why do you need to work 
in an office to get a 401K instead of 
just singing on the street? People 
who work in an office waste count­
less amounts of paper everyday, 
just by doing things like reading a 
shoddy college newspaper that 
starts with a “T.” People who work 
in offices cause a great amount of 
pollution driving to work everyday, 
and going out to lunch, which they 
get ‘to go’ in nonbiodegradable 
plastic and Styrofoam containers. If 
I went down to Oakland and started 
singing songs on the street like 
“Careless Whisper’” and “Its Not 
Unusual” I think I would have a 
much more positive impact on the 
environment. No, I’m never going 
dance again the way I danced with 
you.
Justin Suissa is a sophomore com­munications design major. He wel­comes all replies to his column.
Jodi Lynn Poniewaz
Spring is in the air these days, or 
at least it is when it wants to be, and 
with it comes skimpier clothing, 
making girls everywhere scuttle to 
atone for months of blissful hairi­
ness. I used to think this was simply 
hard evidence of my own slovenli­
ness, but I have since learned that 
many girls view winter as an excel­
lent chance to put down the razor 
and hide the evidence. Have you 
decided how to deal with your hair 
issues yet? Does looking at the 
other girls on campus, stylishly 
attired and hair-free, make you as 
nervous as it makes me?
In the summertime, I really keep 
up with my leg hair. Jeans simply do 
not cut it with Pittsburgh’s humidi­
ty. Wintertime, however, is another 
story. If I am not in a relationship, I 
won’t shave from October to April. 
When I started seeing a very won­
derful guy last December, however, 
I started shaving again. Sometime 
in February he said, “I really don’t 
care if you shave or not, you know,” 
but, due to his previously hidden 
jerk-like tendencies, the relation­
ship blew up before I had a chance 
to test this.
I decided not to shave again any­
way. I’d always admired the few 
girls I’ve had classes with who wore 
short skirts regardless of the fact 
that they didn’t shave; why not try 
my hand at being one of them? One 
of my best friends had reached the 
same conclusion, and we spent 
many hours comparing notes on the 
length, color, and texture of our leg 
hair. I was surprised to learn I am 
not as hairy as I thought. In fact, I’d 
say I’m pretty much average. It’s just 
that it’s hard for a girl to know 
what’s normal in the area of body 
hair because everyone else goes to 
such lengths to remove it. In this 
respect, I suppose our obsession 
with depilation can be considered 
something of an equalizer; at the 
same time, however, I must wonder
why we strive for such equality. 
Men are allowed to have varying 
levels of hairiness. Why aren’t 
women? I assume that the “need” 
for shaving came along at about the 
same time that women started 
wearing short skirts; it’s kind of 
funny that this long-sought free­
dom was coupled with such an irri­
tating restriction. It’s like trading 
handcuffs for bondage bracelets. 
Why did we even bother? Bondage 
bracelets make a nice accessory, but 
they’re really not something you 
want to leave on all the time. I’d 
decided I’d that had enough.
Shortly after the weather turned 
warm, I went for a bike ride in Frick 
Park, something I haven’t done 
since getting lost there during the 
biking section of sixth grade gym 
class. It was my first public appear­
ance as a liberated woman. And 
believe me, it felt wonderful to 
throw on a pair of shorts without 
wondering if I should shave. 
Remember how carefree summer­
time was before you started shav­
ing? The realization that I had 
regained this freedom hit me as I 
gleefully peddled over the trails. 
Down in the hollow though, where 
everything levels out, I got a little 
disoriented, and wasn’t quite sure if 
I was in fact heading the way I 
wanted to go. With memories of 
police involvement and my sixth 
grade fiasco, I stopped a happy 
looking couple for directions.
“Excuse me, am I going the right 
way to get to Homewood 
Cemetery?” I inquired.
“Yeah,” replied the dude, looking 
me straight in the eye. “Just keep 
going that way, and you’ll get to a 
fork. Stay to the left.”
The woman, however ... Picture 
one of those perfectly toned types 
with perfectly kept-up bleached 
blonde hair and a salon tan whose 
top priority after having a baby is 
getting her figure back. In fact, the 
3-wheeled jogging stroller was right 
in front of her as she stood there in 
her lycra tank top and shorts. She 
did not help to answer my question, 
nor did she look me in the eye. How 
could she, when her eyes were rivet­
ed on my legs?
I thanked the couple and waited 
until I had peddled a sufficient dis­
tance before I started snickering. “I 
got one!” I thought to myself. But 
then I wondered, if the men don’t 
seem to care and it’s the women 
who are horrified by leg hair, whom 
exactly are we removing it for? In 
my experience, women, being the 
catty, petty creatures that they typi­
cally are, are far more likely than a 
guy to make snide remarks about a 
girl who doesn’t shave. Could it be 
that, even though shaving ads claim 
their products make us sexier to 
men, we shave more to protect our­
selves from nasty comments by our 
own sex? What a peculiar possibili­ty-I must confess, my descent into 
hairiness did not last quite as long 
as I intended. It was fine for school 
and biking escapades, but I wasn’t 
sure I could bring myself to go rock 
climbing among strangers in this 
condition. I figured I wouldn’t mind 
being hairy if I were a little less 
hairy. So, rather than shaving 
again, I decided to wax, which is 
supposed to make the hair come 
back lighter. Over the course of the 
next two days, I forcefully removed 
each and every .hair below my knees 
from its follicle. It was an interest­
ing experience. It was also some­
thing you would never find a man 
sitting on his floor doing.
So, my legs are once again hair­
less, and probably going to stay that 
way for a while. After waxing, I was 
a little peeved at myself for not 
being able to stick to my convic­
tions. This is something that would 
be easier if more women participat­
ed, or at least more women were 
visible in their participation. I have 
no idea how the hair is going to 
grow back, or what I’ll do when it 
does. I’m kind of hoping the cold 
weather holds just a little while 
longer, so I can take my time decid­
ing.
Jodi Lynn Poniewaz defies classifi­cation. Any responses to her column would be a welcome change from “poniewaz has no new messages."
THE TARTAN
Carnegie Melton's Student Newspaper Since igo6
SENIOR STAFF
Andy Francis, Emily Landes, Rim 
Svarcas
STAFFWRITERS 
Megan Adriance, Neil Babra, Thaddeus 
Billman, Grant Catton, Cliff Chien, Rob 
Cullen, Donny Debarr, Elizabeth Dodson, 
Derek Dreyer, Frank J. Fleming, Colt 
Foutz, Heather Frantz, William-Neil 
Guzy, LaRita Hamilton, Rosie Jones, 
Rachel Kingery, Cynthia Kos, Eunice 
Liew, Katie Kowall, Matthew Lanken, 
Erin Lucas, SeanMintuS, Peter Patterson, 
Jennifer Petrini, Srinivas Pullela, 
Anwesha Rakshit, Jennifer Resick, Gail 
Ronen, Lynn Tao, Guido Zarrella
ART
Matthew Blum, Jamie Divine, Adam 
Grossi, Reagan Heller, Alissa Taylor
COMICS
Martin Hock, Joe Hocking, James 
Kenney, Tom Lin, Chris Rugen
PHOTO
Katie Aerni, Anthony D’Auria, Matthew 
Lanken, Nuri Miller, Michael Raisman, 
Peter Wang
DARKROOM
Stephanie Chow, Cam Crews, Amy 
Solana, Peter Wang, Laura Wetzel
PRODUCTION 
Gopi-Flaherty, Sara Henneberger, Serena 
Lam
COPY
Stacey Becker, Joyce Boss, Christopher. 
Dornfeld, Claire Jauregui, Lisa Ferrugia, 
Larissa Kasian, Kristin Lala, Matthew 
McHenry, Emma Rehm, Julie Watt
JUNIOR STAFF 
Abhyudaya Agrawal, David Anderson, 
Nicholas Bonaddio, Joseph Carrier, 
Michael Castellana, Krissy Choi, Michael 
Cook, Dave del Rosario, Shion 
Deysarkar, Emily Gensheimer, Jay 
Huang, Bill Jerome, Douglas Jones Jr, 
Tim Lo, Bhumika Muchhala, Damian 
Olesnycky, Vijay Palaparty, Jodi 
Poniewaz, Karthik Ramachandran, 
Christian Reed, Adam Retchless, 
Domenic Senger-Schenck, Marissa 
Staller, Adam Steele, Sabrina Small, 
Matthew Trentacoste, Huiya Xu, Sheila 
Wang
The Tartan is the student newspaper of' 
Carnegie Mellon University. It is a weekly 
newspaper published by students during the 
fall and spring semesters, at no cost to mem­
bers of the University community. It is print­
ed by Western Pennsylvania Printing, Inc., 
Subscriptions are available for the semester 
or academic year. The editorials appearing at 
the beginning of the opinion section are the 
official opinion of The Tartan editorial board. 
Columns and political cartoons are the opin­
ions of individual creators. The Tartan 
reserves the right to reject or condense any 
column or political cartoon. Letters to the 
Editor are opinions of authors who are usu­
ally, but not necessarily, members of the 
University community. A letter intended for 
publication must be signed and include the 
writer’s address and phone number for veri­
fication. Names may be withheld upon 
request. The Tartan requests that letters be 
no longer than 350 words. The Tartan 
reserves the right to condense or reject any 
letter. Letters to the Editor must be submit­
ted by 5 pm the Thursday before publica­
tion. Copyright © 2000 by The Tartan. The 
Tartan editorial board reserves the right to 
withhold from publication any copy it deems 
unfit for publication. Office: University 
Center Room 314. Phone: 412/268-2111. . 
Mailing address: The Tartan/Box 17/Carnegie 
Mellon University/Pittsburgh, PA 15213- 
3890.
Email: tartan@andrew.cmu.edu 
Funded in part by your Activities Fee.
All rights reserved.
Library of Congress 
ISSNM90-3107. The 
Tartan is a member of the 
Associated Press.
Anti-smoking campaign reveals mankind’s numerous addictions
Blake Engel
Butthead. Butt ugly. Butt munch.
Still feel like having a cigarette after reading 
these anti-smoking slogans? The American 
Legacy Foundation hopes not. Using bill­
boards with those taglines, TV spots, and edu­
cation programs, they are launching an 
aggressive nationwide campaign to prevent 
smoking.
The American Legacy Foundation was set 
up in November 1998 as part of the tobacco 
industry’s $246 billion legal settlement. Each 
major manufacturer of tobacco products was 
required to contribute more than $1 billion to 
the organization over the course of 10 years.
The ALF aims to take money that would 
have otherwise funded more tobacco propa­
ganda and use it to educate, advertise, and 
research the devastating health hazards tobac- 
,co products cause, 
j Educational programs will be crucial for 
ALF’s goal. Students will play a direct role in 
designing them in the hope that they can pro­
vide the most realistic and effective campaign.
In a new ad meant to bring the conse­
quences of tobacco use to light, a group of
twentysomethings storm a corporate office 
building and begin unloading body bags from 
a truck. A man on a megaphone yells out to 
the windows above: “Do you know how many 
people tobacco kills every day?” Apparently 
the answer is 1,200. The group leaves that 
many body bags on the sidewalk to fully drive 
their point home.
Philip Morris managed to pull the ads from 
television, claiming they aren’t consistent with 
the ALF’s requirement not to “vilify” tobacco 
companies or their executives. However, the 
ads can still be seen online at the Web page of 
the American 
Nonsmokers’
Rights Foundation, www. no-smoke, org.
The ads seem to 
be making their 
point well.
According to the 
American Journal 
of Public Health,
12- to 13-year-olds are half as likely to pick up 
the habit than their peers who see the ads less 
often. This change comes at a critical point in 
tobacco history When more than one third of 
high school students and almost one sixth of 
middle school students use tobacco.
It’s high time for these changes to happen. 
Tobacco companies are notorious for spread­
ing disinformation about the addictive effects 
of nicotine and adverse impact of carbon 
monoxide. They deny using tactics to hook 
young kids on their products, but in the trials 
leading up to the legal settlement, a number of 
internal memos revealed strategic placing of 
ads on billboards near elementary and middle 
schools.
Also exposed in these records are the metic­
ulous archives tobacco companies kept on 
their brand exposure. Available at www. library, ucsf.edu/tobacco/mangini/, the 
records read more like Gestapo archives than
corporate memos.
There is, however, an ironic side to the anti­
smoking campaign’s story. For instance, smok­
ing has been banned in California bars since 
1998. The purpose of this law is to protect 
employees of the bars from dangerous second­
hand smoke and afford them the same rights 
workers in an office building have.
But smoke-free bars do little more than 
swap one vice for another. While they protect 
bartenders’ health, the patrons are still dam­
aging their own with alcohol. So maybe alco­
hol should be banned from bars too so no one 
is at risk at all.
Maybe we can get fewer people to smoke, 
but addictions are here to stay. To stop addic­
tions requires a fundamental change in human 
nature. Of course we shouldn’t abandon the 
anti-smoking campaigns, but we should 
always remember that there’s something very 
human about lighting up.
The fact is, humans get addicted 
to whatever crutch is most 
attractive and available. For 
some it’s greed, others choose 
anger or racism. Almost all of us 
fall into the trap of dishonesty 
and distrust. But only the best 
“addictees” among us choose 
the physical ones — the ones we 
can hold onto and light'up and 
puff on.
Hopefully advertising campaigns like this 
will save some people from falling into such a 
harmful addiction.
Blake Engel is a junior German and HCI major. He welcomes all responsible replies to his column..
Tobacco companies are notorious for spread­
ing disinformation about the addictive effects 
of nicotine and adverse impcts of carbon 
monoxide.
Kenneth Berger
First-year student 
Cognitive Science
“I’m going to new York and San Diego ... 
All right!”
A PERSON’S OPINION
Compiled by Christopher May 
Photos by Behnam Farahpour
The air is fresh, the weather is warm ... what could that mean? Spring is here, 
and with it come flowers, leaves and spring break. To find out what exotic desti­
nations await CMU students, we asked the question:
What are you going to do for Spring Break?
James Kennard
First-year student 
Biology
“Studying for the 15-127 mastery.”
Meghan Smith
Sophomore 
. International RelationsfI “I’m going to hop in a car with my girl- 
, friends. We don’t have a destination. ”
Amy Graveline
Sophomore
ECE
“I’m going to New York for a service 
trip. We’re going to help out a soup 
kitchen in a homeless shelter.”
Anita Shen
Sophomore
ECE
“I am staying here and going to a track 
meet. ”

---------------------------------------------------

I %
I V
- * ...r. ’ ' r^0É*í^r-',!.
\ V-
¿fe ív ¦
! ? -
£ . .• 'Jp '
1 íééé..........1...............wm
1
why not change Itt« world?1“
+mms’!!MuMM-0l+ooM3dsE3e92 aiH3r/h3haHh
Work hard. Have fun. Make history.
On The New Economy
The Laily School at Rensselaer. 
Business savvy for a world gone digital
The MBA@Rensselaer
The shroud of secrecy 
accomplishes two things
1) It keeps our technical solutions our technical solutions.
2) It gives us an excuse to whisper in public.
y4mede0me9 E4 0EmmE4W o4 u G4Eced0Em- ,oIIEmmee­
Pick up an application in the Student Activities Office, UC, Suite 103. 
Applications due by March 28,2000 at 5:00pm in the Office of Student Activities.
rnnn6rnni G4Eced0Em- ,oIIEmmee0
.lu9eIEl 7ecEeC Doud9
Students serve with faculty and staff on a 5—7 person board which reviews matters of alleged 
violations of university standards of academic integrity.
Le0EW4 7ecEeC ,oIIEmmee
Students serve with faculty and staff in considering all matters of major construction of renovation 
within the campus.
$euMm+ 8edcEle0 U y402du4le .9cE0od- ,oIIEmmee
Students advise the director of health services on matters pertaining to the health center and the 
universitys students insurance policy.
7-u4 .Cud9 ,oIIEmmee
Students assist in the process of reviewing candidates for the universitys primary award for 
exceptional teaching.
8eJ2uM $udu00Ie4m ,oIIEmmee
Students serve with faculty and staff on the committee charged with educating the campus 
regarding sexual harassment and with responding to issues which arise in this regard.
vd20mee ,oIIEmmee0’ 192lumEo4uM .AAuEd0 U 14doMMIe4m
D29Wem 
LeceMosIe4m
Students advise the members of the universitys Board of Trustees on various matters relating to 
the vision and future of the university.
G49edWdu92ume .lu9eIEl .9cE0E4W ,oIIEmmee
Students assist in the process of reviewing candidates for the universitys primary award for 
exceptional undergraduate academic advising.
G4Eced0Em- ,oIIEmmee o4 LE0lEsME4e
Students serve with faculty ad staff on a 4—5 personboard which reviews matters of alleged 
violation of university community standards.
G4Eced0Em- SudBE4W ,oIIEmmee
Students serve with faculty and staff to advise the directors of the university parking service in 
order to enhance overall service to the campus.
G4Eced0Em- 8m29e4m .AAuEd0 ,o24lEM
Students serve with faculty and staff on the primary university council concerned with 
metacurricular affairs on the campus.
All applications will be reviewed for potential vacancies in the above listed committees. If 
you have any, please contact Denise Fazio, Coordinator of Student Activities, 
faziotffiandrRwnmii.eriii
www.amazon.com/campus
amazon.com.
Amazon.com is an Equal 
Opportunity Employer
THELALLYSCHOOL
AT RENSSELAER
Management
and technology.
Application
and innovation.
We wish we could broadcast every last detail about the technology that's being 
developed here. But you can only divulge so much when you're trying to do what's 
never been done before. So instead, we invite you to do this: Visit our site. Look at 
the features. Consider the performance tradeoffs and scaling challenges. Imagine 
the database-driven technology and world class back-end systems we've developed 
to please millions of customers. Then, let your mind wander about the underlying 
challenges our software and web development teams focus on each day. 
What we're working on is big. So, we've pulled together some of the smartest 
people around, given them the audacious goal of driving the evolution of e-commerce, 
and asked them to make it all look easy. 
There's no better place to learn about e-commerce. Just remember to keep your 
voices low.
Software Development Interns 
Web Development Interns
Our college relations team will be at your school soon. If you're interested in a 
summer internship in beautiful Seattle, please submit your resume to your career 
center or to: campus@amazon.com.

---------------------------------------------------

THE TARTAN « MARCH 20, 20009
Certified Fast Play Class
Mandatory microphone policy represents major NBA air ball
ing, gunner” is my best guess. Or at 
the most dire of moments, “Come 
on out, son, I’m sending in number 
thirty-three to see if he can’t get 
more biscuits in the bucket.” 
Sideline comments perpetuate the 
worst of sports cliches each and 
every time they’re uttered.
And these coaches aren’t the most 
excitable of men to begin with, 
especially when it comes to their 
pricey players. After Dennis 
Rodman’s shirt-removing, court-sit- 
ting, ref-enraging outburst in his 
second game as a Dallas Maverick, 
coach Don Nelson had this nugget of 
controversy to offer the media: “I 
think Dennis was right about the 
illegal defense. He didn’t get the 
call.” Nelson didn’t dare comment 
on Rodman’s tirade, or contribute 
his opinion on who would win the 
wrestling match to which Rodman
NBA, from page 12
to see if I had enough popcorn.
But then, with the coaches climb­
ing the ropes to. administer the 
lethal body slam, the league office 
bolted out of the ring like a scared 
school girl. Apron clear, opponent 
gone. Instead of “March Mat 
Massacre VI,” we got “Who Wants to 
Pin a Microphone on a Multi-mil­
lionaire?”
i Now the coaches will be able to 
choose whether or not they will 
wear microphones the rest of the 
season, though they will have to 
endure a few other intrusions. 
Coaches are now required to open 
the last half hour of team practices 
to the media, and unmanned cam­
eras will still be placed in team lock­
er rooms during half time. So, the 
effort to bring fans closer to the 
game moves on, if on a slightly
The problem with all this hoopla over 
how to increase the league’s television 
ratings is that the good part was the 
hoopla, and now that’s over.
oblique angle, and some unrest still 
remains.
“What if someone sees me half- 
naked?” asked Portland’s Detlef 
Schrempf. Well, that depends on 
which half they see, Detlef.
The problem with all this hoopla 
over how to increase the league’s 
television ratings — which are 
down from last season by an aver­
age of 20 percent — is that the good 
part was the hoopla, and now that’s 
(Dver. Even though you’ve got to give 
the league some credit for trying, 
J:he microphone strategy doesn’t 
Win them any style points.
For one, the forcible way the 
|eague attempted to implement the 
policy backfired big time. And sec- 
bnd, broadcasting coaches’ com­
ments to the television audience 
\<vas supposed to increase ratings? 
Has anybody in the league office 
ever been in one of these team hud­
dles?
Want to know what an NBA coach 
says to his star player when that 
player has misfired on his last five 
three-point attempts? “Keep on fir-
challenged NBA commissioner 
David Stern, or later even respond 
publicly to the losing streak his 
once-red-hot team would endure 
with Rodman in the lineup. Just the 
facts, TV viewers, just the facts.
Tell me, is Dragnet’s Joe Friday 
available for a coaching job?
The fact is, NBA coaches aren’t 
interested in dressing down their 
millionaire players in the thick of a 
game, and especially not for the lis­
tening displeasure of a national tele­
vision audience. The season’s too 
long, and the viewing public proba­
bly too far out of the loop to under­
stand.
Fact is, Phil Jackson won’t be 
revealing any of his intimate experi­
ences with transcendental medita­
tion to Shaquille O’Neal in the mid­
dle of a game, anyway. But he could 
be drawing up a last-second, game- 
saving play as the microphones roll 
in the huddle, which your average 
fan couldn’t hope to decipher, and 
the broadcast of which could aid 
any tape-watching team aiming to 
knock the Lakers out of the playoffs
Reagan Heller/Art Staff
two ticks left and kicks it out to 
McGrady at the top of the key for 
the make or break shot. What will 
happen? Now tell me that’s not 
exciting!
Yes, there are problems. Ticket 
prices are still sky high and rules of 
play may have to be tinkered with 
every now and then to keep the 
game evolving with the times. But 
the average fan is already over­
whelmed by jerky camera angles and 
distracting gimmicks in this claustro­
phobic age of packaging over prod­
uct. Let the game sell the game, 
please. Or else, why bother playing?
packaged as entertainment, and 
fickle fans will change the channel 
the minute the next best thing 
comes on. Wake boarding, snow 
boarding, bare-handed board chop­
ping, and bare-chested volleyball all 
make for riveting television, even if 
they don’t exactly fit the bill as tra­
ditional white-knuckled, win-at-all- 
costs sports.
It should say something to the 
league that a good argument could 
be made for pro wrestling as the 
favorite sport of today. Boasting sky 
high ratings and devoted fans, pro 
wrestling’s dramatically-scripted 
story lines, cartoonish heroes and
villains, and accessible prices have 
translated into everything from 
profitable toy lines to best-selling 
autobiographies. For entertain­
ment value, pro wrestling may be 
king — but it’s still not a sport.
This, up to now, has always been 
the greatest asset of the major 
sports. The power of basketball to 
convey the emotion of winning, the 
agony of defeat, the glory of team 
and the stories behind its singular 
individuals still pales in comparison 
to the age old question of what’s going to happen next? These games 
aren’t scripted. Anything can hap­
pen, and does.
Michael Jordan has come and 
gone, but the game goes on, with a 
new galaxy of stars to be discovered 
and to captivate us. Vince Carter 
goes in for a rim-rattling dunk with
in a similar situation months down 
the road.
Probably the league considered 
this and made arrangements with 
the networks to keep the boom 
microphones clear in these cases; 
but more likely, some sound guy 
won’t get the message and will dis­
tract the coaches enough to alter 
the game’s competitive balance.
My verdict? Not worth it.
That being said, the NBA has 
every reason to wring its hands 
about the sudden and dramatic 
drop in television ratings. In this 
day of reality-based television and 
behind-the-scenes footage, sports isColtFoutz wants the NCAA to know that there is at least one coach he’d like to see microphoned. Bob Knight. ,cYou *(&(&(*&!" Player whom he’s choking: “Gnnngh, hnnngh, arrrgh."
U8CÏARECOCJNIZE!)(Induci*. I in USGA Poca of Play Manual)
CtRTlFlED FAST PLAY CONCEPTS INC.
CCC30selsodm3loI!lAs
To Register by Phone Call:
854-GOLF
502014Nor tNohCa4oig
Courses, Workshops, Seminars, 
Study Abroad
Transferable Credits
Accelerated Sessions
Start Dates: May through July
Register by fax, phone, mail or 
in person
Call 1.800.283.3853 for our 
complete Summer 2000 
Information/Application 
Package
Sometimes college doesn't turn out as you expected. But if you took W
out a student loan, you have to pay it back whether or not you stay through 5 
graduation. If not, you could he turned down for credit cards, car loans, anal 
mortgages. Fortunately, PHEAA has lots of ways to help you manage the responsibili 
So keep in touch after you leave campus.
yI EII um ) (• i mm
jUUQUESNH University 
Pittsburgh, PA 15282 
www.duq.edu 
e-mail: summer@duq.eduPHEAA

---------------------------------------------------

Ä Andersen ConsultingCongratulations!
to the Winners 
of the 2nd Annual 
Andersen Consulting 
eCommerce Challenge
1st Place
John Gubala 
Elena Kholodenko 
Ralph Lord 
Eric Muehlmatt 
Jim Walker
2nd Place (tie)
ShyamAyengar 
Steve Charnoubi 
Harriet Kramer 
Jessey Paul 
Carissa Vivirito
Louis Cohen 
Michael Greaves 
Joshua Hausfeld 
Harry Heymann 
Jason Scharfman

---------------------------------------------------

University of Pittsburgh neuropsychology group seeks strong 
C/C++ and/or Java programmer to develop state-of-the-art brain 
imaging tools. Positions involve user interface, statistical, image 
processing and systems programming in Unix environment.
Contact Eugene Tseytlin at (412) 624-7070 
tseytlin@pitt.edu
classified
Travel
ACT NOW! SPRING BREAK! Last minute 
specials to South Padres, Florida, Cancún, 
jamaica & Bahamas.
WWW. LEISU RETOURS. COM 
(800) 838-8203
BE FLEXIBLE ... SAVE SSS 
Europe SI 59 (o/w + taxes)
CHEAP FARES WORLDWIDE!! 
Mexico/Caribbean $199 (r/t + taxes)
Call: (800) 326-2009 
wvvvv. 4 cheapair. com
Last Minute Specials on Spring Break! 
Cancún! Jamaica! Nassau! Save an additional 
$150 per person to Cancún. 32 hours of 
free drinks! Call us at 
(800) 293-1443 or goto 
www.StudentCity.com
Mexico/Caribbean or Central America $229 
r.t. Europe $169 o.w. Other world wide des­
tinations cheap. ONLY TERRORISTS GET 
YOU THERE CHEAPER! Book tickets on line 
www.airtech.com. or 
(212) 219-7000.
For Sale
FLOWERS for romance, formals, platonic, 
birthday, get well and more ... ALEX's 
FLOWERS. 687-ALEX. alexsflowers.com.
For Rent - North Oakland. Fabulous 1 & 2 
BR apartments. Luxury Building, Great 
Location. MUST SEE!! Call 
(412) 683-8683
Shadyside/ Beautiful two and three bed­
room apartments, two blocks from Walnut 
Street, carpeting, fully equipped kitchens, 
security, laundry, log burning fireplace, cen­
tral a/c, deck. Available mid August. Rent 
$750.00 to $1100.00 plus utilities. (412) 
461-5837 •
Opportunities
Artists Market Assistant - Three Rivers Arts 
Festival: Administrative support needed to 
help organize arts and crafts marketplace. 
Strong communications and organizational 
skills required;.computer experience pre­
ferred; part-time to start, full-time during 
June Festival. Mail/fax resume: TRAF - 
Market, 707 Penn Ave., Pittsburgh, PA 
15222. FAX: (412) 281-8722
Assistant Swim Coach needed for commu­
nity U.S.S. team. Hours: 5-8pm Monday- 
Friday with additional time available 
Saturday am. Excellent hourly salary. Call 
Mike Pfister, head coach, Woodland Hills 
Aquatic Team, 512-8133
Balloon Artist/Entertainers wanted to work 
Pittsburgh Area. Restaurants and special 
events, night, and weekends. Basic balloon 
twisting abilities preferred. Will train poten­
tial candidates. Call (412) 371-4899
Escape to the Shenandoah Mountains of 
West Virginia. TIMBER RIDGE CAMPS, 
coed, seeking energetic, fun-loving staff to 
work with, children this coming summer. 90 
miles from Wash. DC. Top salaries, travel 
allowance. If interested, call (800) 258-2267 
or email TrCamps@aol.com.
HELP WANTED SS 1,000 $S Fundraiser
No effort. Big Money!! No investment. 
Work with your friends! Get a free T-shirt 
tool. Cal Sue at 
(800) 808-7442 ext 104
How does 800/week extra income sound 
to you? Amazingly profitable opportunity. 
Send self-addressed stamped envelope to: 
international 1375 Coney Island Ave., PMB 
#427, Brooklyn, NY 11230
SS Summer Cash SS
Student Business Mngmt/Sales position with 
national firm. Pays $10-$12 + commission. 
Available to Soph, Jr, & Sr. only. For info go 
to www.jablon.com
Student Organizations earn $1000-$2000 
with the easy campusfundraiser.com three 
hour fundraising event. No sales required.
Fundraising dates are filling quickly, so call 
today! Contact campusfundraiser.com, (888) 
923-3238, or visit www.campusfundraiser.com
SUPER GOPHER - June 1-19. Seeking artic­
ulate, motivated, high-energy assistant for 
Three Rivers Arts Festival Performing Arts 
Department. Ability to work independently 
and manage multiple tasks in a fast-paced, 
high-pressure environment is essential. 
Approx. 40 hours/week. Must be available 7 
days a week from |une 1 to 19. Sense of 
humor, weather-proof outerwear and valid 
Driver's License required. Send resume by 
fax: (412) 281-8722 or by Oemail: 
dgarda@sgi.net
Wanted: 40 people to lose 30 lbs/30 days 
100% Natural. Money back Guarantee 
www.evitality-be-healthy.com 
(888) 396-7898
WORK FROM HOME. 1,500 PT/4,000 FT 
www.IHBN.com code BA2535 
(888) 453-3734
Classified Rates
1-20 words........$10.00/wk
21-50 words........$12.00/wk
51-100 words......$15.00/wk
MAIL TO:
The Tartan, Box 17 
Carnegie Mellon University 
Pittsburgh, PA 15213-3890
•Classifieds must be paid in cash or 
check before first run date 
•On-campus departments and 
organizations may pay by journal 
transfer
•Due by 5 pm the Thursday before 
publication
THE TARTAN • MARCH 20, 2000
Take your picks, the new MLB season lies around the corner
baseball, from page 12
closing out the few close games the team is 
likely to face. ' .
Chicago, Minnesota, Kansas City, and 
Detroit are still hardly worth mentioning, 
tjljt the Tigers are at least going to try. 
Bringing in Juan Gonzalez from Texas will 
definitely help fill the. new stadium in 
Détroit, but the harsh reality of the situation 
tfjll set in soon enough.
projected finish:
1. Cleveland Indians 
; 2. Detroit Tigers 
;3. Chicago White Sox
4. Kansas City Royals
5. Minnesota Twins
American League West
While the eventual winner of the division 
will almost certainly bow out of the playoffs 
inithe first round, determining who it will be 
ought to be one heck of a good show.
Even without Gonzalez, the Rangers- have 
the most talent, but not by much. If the 
Angels can stay healthy for the first time in 
five years, the top of the standings will be 
very crowded come September.
The Mariners face a tough post-Ken 
Griffey future, but in a weak division, they 
and last year’s surprise darling Oakland 
Athletics will at least stay competitive.
Projected finish:
1. Texas Rangers
2. California Angels
3. Oakland Athletics
4. Seattle Mariners
National League East
If the Braves hope to continue their 
decade-long stranglehold on the division 
crown, they’ll have a lot of questions to 
answer. Questions such as: How well will 
Andres Galarraga fare in his return from 
cancer? How will John Rocker react to the 
harsh treatment he’s sure to receive from the 
fans all year? Who will replace John Smoltz?
The last question, in particular, will be 
key to the team’s success. The loss of such a 
reliable starter as Smoltz will hit hard over 
the final few games when the Braves have 
historically been able to outlast all chal­
lengers.
The challenger will once again be the New 
York Mets. Though they will miss John 
Olerud’s consistency at first base, Todd Zeile 
should alleviate the pain if he lives up to his 
considerable potential. The addition of 20- 
game winner Mike Hampton strengthens the 
pitching staff immeasurably, and will pro­
vide a solid go-to starter who maybe able to 
halt the late-season self-destruction that has 
plagued the team in recent years.
Projected finish:
1. Atlanta Braves
2. New York Mets
3. Philadelphia Phillies
4. Montreal Expos
5. Florida Marlins
National League West
Much like the Florida Marlins in 1997, the 
Arizona Diamondbacks surprised everyone 
by making the playoffs just a couple of years 
after joining the league. Unlike the Marlins, 
however, Arizona is set to continue making 
playoff appearances for years. By not dump­
ing their entire roster after a single success­
ful season, the Diamondbacks remain the 
class of the division.
The rest of the group is just one big ques­
tion mark. The Giants face the same dilem­
ma as the Angels over in the A.L. in trying to 
stay healthy for a full season. The boys from 
the Bay lost more starters than any other 
team last year, yet still managed to stay com­
petitive.
Even more puzzling is how the Dodgers 
will rebound from the most disappointing 
season anyone has ever seen. The 
Green/Mondesi deal is a great improvement 
for L.A., but the rest of the team will have to 
stop underachieving if they’re going to get 
out of the cellar.
Not to be outdone, the Rockies went and 
practically brought in an entirely new team. 
I don’t think anyone can predict how this 
group will mold together over a single year.
Projected Finish:
1. Arizona Diamondbacks 
' 2. San Francisco Giants
3. Los Angeles Dodgers
4. Colorado Rockies
5. San Diego Padres
National League Central
I had to save this division for last because, 
well, just look at it: Mark McGwire, Sammy 
Sosa, Ken Griffey Jr., Dante Bichette, Jeff 
Bagwell, and a healthy Jason Kendall. Each 
team in the division has a serious slugger 
that is going to leave a lot of pitchers with 
sore necks and nightmares.
Though the A.L. West may be slightly 
more balanced, the teams in the N.L. Central 
should compete at a much higher level of 
play. The additions of Griffey and Bichette 
add pop to a solid Reds roster that could 
have fans all over Ohio dreaming of the first
ever Interstate 76 series.
Standing in their way will be the still- 
impressive Astros, who face life without the 
Mets’ Hampton, but get all-star center field­
er Moises Alou back from injury.
With Kendall also returning from his 
injury for the Pirates, and McGwire and Sosa 
powering the Cardinals and Cubs, every 
team in this division has a legitimate shot at 
the playoffs.
Projected finish:
1. Cincinnati Reds
2. Houston Astros (wild card)
3. St. Louis Cardinals
4. Pittsburgh Pirates
5. Chicago Cubs
6. Milwaukee Brewers
Playoffs
Since the rule stating that teams from the 
same division can’t meet in the first round of 
the playoffs still hasn’t been changed, the 
A.L. match-ups look like they’ll be New York- 
Texas and Cleveland-Boston, again.
The Yankees still have more firepower 
than the Rangers, but Cleveland won’t allow 
another breakdown against the BoSox. With 
new manager Charlie Manuel driving a 
much stricter ship in Cleveland, the Tribe is 
primed for some serious revenge, and 
should take the A.L. crown.
The race for the best record in the N.L. will 
be close, very close. I have no idea who’s 
going to get home-field advantage, but due 
to that match-up rule, I see Arizona- 
Cincinnati and Atlanta-Houston in the first 
round. These four teams are so evenly 
matched, the eventual winner will be who­
ever gets hot at the right time.
The way things look now, though, the 
Reds have the firepower and the Braves have 
the experience. As a Cleveland fan, I’ll give 
the nod to my other in-state team and look 
for a Cleveland-Cincinnati World Series.
An Indians-Yankees contest in the A.L. 
Championship Series would be no picnic for 
the winner, but the N.L. representative can 
look forward to two grueling series before 
earning their way through. If their pitching 
can hold up — and that’s the biggest ‘if I’ve 
mentioned so far — the Indians are hungry 
enough to take it all.
Matt Brim is a sophomore ECE major who will not stand behind these totally biased, unscientific predictions should anyone lose money on bets based on them. Should the picks prove to be correct, however, he will expect a cut.
CHALLENGING PROGRAMMING 
POSITIONS IN BRAIN IMAGING
Daily, Weekly, & Monthly Rates
5405 Fifth Avenue • Pittsburgh, PA 15232 • shadysideinn.com • (412) 441-4444
A Suite for Less Than a Hotel Room
Elegantly furnished one or two bedroom suites 
with equipped kitchens, cable TV, VCR, 
free local phone, parking and located 
a few steps from Walnut Street shopping.
mÊÊÊÊÊÊÊÊÊÊÊÊÊÊÊÊÊÊÊÊÊÊÊÊÊÊÊÊÎ
THE TARTAN
268-2111

---------------------------------------------------

Sports
March 20, 2000THE TARTANPage 12
NBA tosses 
up airball 
with policy
I Column As I See ‘Em
by Colt Foutz
Judging from the abbreviated 
nature of the coaches-against- 
microphones controversy sweeping 
the NBA last week, it would seem 
like your run-of-the-mill heavy- 
handed league directive doesn’t 
carry the same weight it used to, or 
last nearly long enough to become 
interesting.
The drama began just two weeks 
ago, after Pat Riley refused to wear 
a microphone for Miami’s national­
ly televised. March 4th game 
against Los Angeles. Days later, the 
NBA responded with the kind of 
tyrannical threat that would make 
WWF chairman Vince McMahon 
proud, threatening its coaches with 
fines starting at $100,000 — to be 
assessed and paid for by their 
teams — if they didn’t comply with 
the policy (which was intended to 
increase viewer interest and, in 
turn, boost television ratings). 
Score a half-nelson for the league 
office!
Faced with this unprecedented 
hit to their wallets, the coaches 
countered by refusing again to 
wear the microphones, instead 
offering to pay the fines personally 
in exchange for their coaching free­
dom. Whoa, looks like the coaches 
have broken out of the headlock! 
The NBA then shot back by asking 
Seattle coach Paul Westphal and 
Toronto coach Butch Carter — 
both of whom had refused to wear 
microphones in their March 12th 
game — to please pay up. Bring it 
on, you clipboard-toting pretty 
boys! Coaches around the league 
began reaching for their tag team 
partners — the Coaches 
-Association and Player’s Union, 
respectively — making a lot of 
noise, but not making much 
progress.
“All I can say is the rule is in 
place,” NBA deputy commissioner 
Russ Granik said. “I don’t want to 
belittle [the coaches’] concerns, 
but it has been determined that 
this is how we want the business 
to go."
From all appearances, the steel 
cage death match was on. Fines 
were scheduled to increase with 
each offense, and the league 
seemed set to gleefully collect until 
the coaches backed down. Players 
sounded off about a related policy 
to place cameras in the locker room 
during half time. It seemed like a 
good time to check in the kitchen 
See MICROPHONES, page 9
Tartans rank at NCAA swim championships at Emory
by Brian SmithContributing Editor
Atlanta has become a home- 
away-from-home of sorts for the 
Carnegie Mellon swim teams this 
year. Last weekend, seven Tartan 
men made the trek south one final 
time and captured a 14th-place 
national ranking and a multitude of 
personal honors at the NCAA 
Division III National Swimming and 
Diving Championships at Emory 
University.
“In relative terms, when you get 
to the Nationals meet, you’re going 
against the best in the country,” 
said head coach David Belowich. 
“We know just about everything 
about [the Emory pool] at this 
point. It has become very familiar. 
It’s definitely an advantage — know 
everything about the area and the 
place so you can get into a routine 
and focus on swimming.”
The men’s arrival at Emory was 
only one week after senior Erin 
Rockwell single-handedly gained a 
national ranking for the women’s 
team at the women’s NCAA 
Nationals meet. Rockwell’s 1:07.26 
in the 100-yard breaststroke was 
good for 12th place and scored five 
points for the team. It was enough 
to rank Carnegie Mellon 38th over­
all in the nation and award 
Rockwell honorable mention All- 
American status.
“She’s just a remarkable athlete,” 
said Belowich. “I’m very pleased to 
have the opportunity to coach her.”
Belowich also commended 
Rockwell for her tenacity not just in
the pool, but in her head,
“Beyond the great things she’s 
done over the years, the one thing 
that will stand out is the mental 
toughness,” he said. “When you go 
to Nationals by yourself, it’s really 
hard to keep with it mentally.... It’s 
especially tough when you don’t 
have your team there cheering you 
on. You don’t depend on anyone but 
yourself... she did a wonderful job.”
For Rockwell, the 1999-2000 
Nationals redeemed her perfor­
mance from last year, when she 
missed out on scoring any points 
and All-American honors by one 
place.
On the men’s side, 
seven swimmers, 
including one full 
relay, allowed them 
to compete in all the 
relays to rack up 
points. The men had 
their sights set on 
beating the
1997-98 squad’s 
16th place national 
finish.
“It was a whole different mindset 
than when Erin went,” said 
Belowich. “We were there as a 
team. We could make noise and 
hear it. It’s great to get the cama­
raderie and support in that situa­
tion. It helps you concentrate on 
doing your job better.”
On the first day of competition 
last Thursday, the confidence and 
resolve with which the men entered 
the meet was quickly challenged.
“We qualified quite well in the 
relays but we had a little bit of a 
roller coaster ride in the first few
events,” said Belowich.
The first competition was the 
200-yard free relay. The team was 
fighting to qualify for finals, which 
would require at least a 16th place 
finish. A misstep on the last leg of 
the relay however, caused the team 
to lose a stroke or two and it fin­
ished 17th.
Individual events by sophomore 
Ian Peters in the 200-yard individ­
ual medley and sophomore Matt 
Shewchuk and George Heidinger 
did not earn the team its first final 
qualification. At the end of the 
afternoon, the team finally struck
“You cannot describe or prepare 
someone for what nationals are 
about. You have to feel them.”
— Swim team head coach 
David Belowich
gold with a seventh place qualifying 
finish by the 400-yard medley relay 
team of sophomore Sean Belowich, 
junior George Heidinger, junior 
Jason Striner, and senior Mike 
Robinson.
The finals brought the ultimate 
disappointment, however, as the 
relay team was disqualified due to a 
miscue on a start and all hopes for 
point-scoring on the first day of 
action were lost.
“Everyone was really down,” said 
coach Belowich “We talked about it a 
little bit and everyone did a little soul 
searching.... We came off Thursday
night with no points and we resolved 
that we had to do better.”
Things quickly turned around 
Friday evening and the team 
rebounded with a lOth-place finish 
in the 200-yard medley relay. In 
addition, Peters broke his own 
school record in the 100-yard 
breaststroke and captured 11th 
place overall and honorable men­
tion All-American and Heidinger 
captured All-American honors with 
an 8th place finish in the 100-yard 
butterfly.
“George had been to nationals 
every year he’s been on the team,” 
said coach
Belowich. “He’s 
always come close 
individually but 
always came up a 
little short. This 
year he finally 
broke into the top 
eight and grabbed 
All-American indi-
_____________ vidual honors for
the first time.”
To end the night with a 
bang, the men’s 800-yard free relay 
team of Robinson, Shewchuk, 
junior Jon Alpert, and Peters won 
Carnegie Mellon’s first top-eight 
relay finish with a 6:54.99, break­
ing the longest-standing CMU 
record by almost two seconds.
The men’s performance gained 
them 55 points on Friday and they 
broke into the top 20 for the first 
time. With one relay to go, they had 
made a complete turn-around in a 
day and were poised to finish the 
best season for the CMU men’s team 
in nearly a decade on a high note.
On the final evening of competi­
tion, the Tartans captured seventh 
place in the 400-yard freestyle relay 
with a time of 3:07.00.
“It was one of the closest races I 
have seen in a long time,” said 
coach Belowich. “Third through 
eighth place were all decided on the 
last two strokes.”
The race put the team’s total 79 
points they finished 14th place 
overall, topping the 1997-98 mark.
With only one senior on the men’s 
nationals squad this year, the team 
can already look forward to a bright 
future.
“Even though we had a lot of 
seniors on the team in general, we 
are really quite young,” said 
Belowich. “You cannot describe or 
prepare someone for what nationals 
are about. You have to feel them. The 
sooner you can get that first experi­
ence out of the way, the better you 
are. I hope we can get the six under­
classmen from this year to go back.” 
In the meantime, the team will 
start spring workout sessions after 
spring break.
“[Our spring workout] is not out­
rageously rigorous, we just try to 
keep in shape,” said coach Belowich. 
“I’d like them to be in shape when 
they leave in May and continue to 
train throughout the summer so 
when we start in September we 
build off that rather than starting all 
over again. The more you do the bet­
ter you get.”
It’s a work ethic that most college 
students would cringe at. It is also 
the reason why Carnegie Mellon 
has one of the premier men’s swim 
teams in Division III.
Sports ShortsPositive outlook prevails on baseball team
Carnegie Mellon’s club baseball 
players didn’t want the sun to set 
last Sunday evening. They were at 
an away game against Penn State 
New Kensington, and things were 
going well.
The team, in the fourth inning of 
the second game of a double-head- 
er, was routing Penn State behind 
the untouchable pitching of Tony 
Paez.
Paez, who plays shortstop as 
well, had not given up a hit 
through the first four innings of 
the second game, but the game 
was called due to darkness. The 
score was 8-0.
“Tony was ahead of everybody,” 
said coach Rich Greiser. “He was 
in the zone.”
Despite the team’s loss in the
first half of the doubleheader, 
15-10, the team was fairly certain 
it would have come away with the 
second game.
“They weren’t going to beat us 
that second game,” said Greiser.
At the plate, Ramon Poo was
2-3 with a double, Nick Naviglia 
was 2-2 with a double, and John 
Mayes, who performed well at the 
plate in the opener, was 1-3.
In the first game, the Tartans 
held a 10-6 lead going into the bot­
tom of the fifth inning, but a series 
of walks and defensive lapses let 
Penn State back into the game. 
Carnegie Mellon allowed five runs 
in the bottom of the fifth, falling 
behind 11-10.
Then, in the sixth inning, similar 
circumstances led to a four-run 
inning for Penn State. The game, 
which at one point seemed secure­
ly in the clutches of the Tartans, 
ended in a disappointing 15-10 
loss.
The offense was hardly the prob­
lem for the Tartans; they had 10 
hits, led by the 4-5 effort of Mayes, 
who drove in five runs. The prob­
lems were caused by the defensive 
breakdown, which Greiser 
addressed after the game.
“We want to improve on our 
defense,, and. to cut down on our 
walks,” he said.
In light of the defeat, and a pair 
of losses two weekends before, the 
players are still enthusiastic 
because of the competitive nature 
of the games, according to Greiser.
“We’re just going to get better, 
there’s no doubt about it,” said 
Greiser. “Knowing you can hold 
your own out there is something to 
build on.... They know now that 
they belong out there.”
In addition, Greiser feels that as 
the season goes on, the players will 
improve as they have more time on 
the field in games and practice.
“Once we get out there ... we’re 
going to play with a lot of teams 
out there,” said Greiser.
Golf warms up for season
The Carnegie Mellon golf team- 
heads to North Carolina during 
spring break for several days of 
practice in Pinehurst and a match 
against St. Andrews College in 
Laurinberg on Thursday, March 
30.
The team will return after break 
to choose players for the Bethany 
Invitational in Wheeling, WV, 
which will be held from 
Wednesday, April 5 until Sunday, 
April 9.
Returning to start on the team 
for their third straight years are 
juniors Jason Lawrence and Jamie 
Brown, at the number one and two 
spots. The two played ih the first 
and second positions last year as 
well.
“I think we’re going to be very 
competitive,” said coach Rich 
Erdelyi.
Tennis teams make trip to SC
The men’s and women’s tennis 
teams take a trip to Hilton Head, 
SC, over break for a series of key 
matches.
The results from Hilton Head, in 
conjunction with matches against 
UAA teams such as NYU, will deter­
mine the teams’ seedings in the UAA 
Championships at the end of April.
After spring break, the women’s 
team plays Allegheny College at 
home on April 3, and both teams 
travel to Muhlenberg College to 
face NYU on April 8. The men’s 
first home match is on April 11 
against Slippery Rock.
“The Hilton Head schedule will 
definitely help the men in their 
quest for national tournament con­
tention,” said head coach Pete 
Moss. .Compiled by 
Christopher Chung
A brand-new spring: MLB season preview
Administration
Intramural Director: Mike
Mastroianni x8-2214 or mma8+ 
Assistant Intramural Director: 
Mike Grzywinski X8-2214 
Intramural Secretary: Amy Kiryk 
x8-2053 or kiryk+
IM President: Justin Peroli x2- 
3917 or peroli+
Vice President: Mike Hutsko x2- 
3942 or hutsko+
Women’s President: Andrea 
Nellis x2-2485 or nellis+
Important Dates
Wednesday, March 22 — IM 
Board Meeting at 1:15 pm in 
Gym Conference Room 
Thursday, March 23 — Indoor 
Soccer, Softball, Squash, Table 
Tennis, and Call Pool rosters due 
by 4:30 pm in the IM Office. 
Monday, April 3 — Rules 
Meeting in the Small Gym. 
Indoor Soccer at 4:30 pm and 
Softball/Co-Rec Softball at 5 
pm.
Tuesday, April 4 — Softball and 
Indoor Soccer seasons begin.
3 on 3 Basketball — The tourna­
ment was held last week at the 
UC. The champions were Fruitee 
Guys-Omega in majors, NTUA. 
GR in intermediate, 2 Men and 2
Ladies in Minors, and Hoopers A 
in women.
Floor Hockey — The season is 
underway and continues until 
after Spring Break.
Badminton — Playoffs begin 
Tuesday. The schedule is posted 
at the Gym.
Water Basketball — The finals 
between SAE and DU will be held 
Tuesday at 9 pm.
Majors Basketball All-Stars
Dave Burns, Geoff Barbanell — 
Fruitee Guys Omega 
Andy Jackson — PiKA A 
Joe Manger, Andy Kabala — 
Beta B Rates
Matt Noretto — Beta Buck 
Naked
Tommy “Bacon” Praesel — White 
Trash
IM Sports Standings
Men
1. PiKA-3875
2. SAE-3117
3. Beta-2450
4. Omega - 2275
5.PKT-1592
Women
1. Hoopers -1216
2.TSA-883
3. Frat Girls-800
4. KKG - 766
Note: All email rosters are due 24 hours prior to the posted date.
A View From The Bleachers
by Matt Brun
Take me out to the ball game; take 
me out to the crowd.... Ah, magical 
words that can only mean it’s that 
time again, the time when the 
warmth of spring brings all the 
teams out of their warm-weather 
hiding places in Arizona and Florida 
and another major league baseball 
season can begin.
Before I get into my predictions 
for the upcoming season, I'want to 
insert a side note about spring train­
ing in general. As far as pre-seasons 
go, I can’t understand why more 
sports don’t use a system like this. 
Just look at the weather situation. 
With the regular season taking up 
all the warm months, I’d have to say 
relocating the teams to the sunniest 
locales available is just brilliant. 
Plus, none of the teams train in big 
cities with overly complex facilities, 
giving the feel of pick-up games that 
are the most accessible fan events I 
that know.
Of course, the games are not mere 
pick-up games among major lea­
guers. As far as competition for ros­
ter spots go, spring training is head 
and shoulders above any other 
sport’s pre-season schedule.
Football’s paltry excuse for a pre­
season (though it’s still a quarter as 
long as the regular season) features 
teams trying desperately not to get 
their starters (which have, for the 
most part, already been deter­
mined) hurt.
Hockey and basketball have 
slightly better versions, but can’t 
match the sheer volume of spring 
training. Baseball teams very nearly 
hold open tryouts every year, 
extending invitations to as many as 
three times as many players as will 
end up on the roster. One good 
spring can send a player from sin- 
gle-A ball all the way to the Big 
Dance.
As the 2000 spring training winds 
down, the prospect of the upcoming 
season is the most exciting it’s been 
in several years. While no one could
again. On another side note, I can’t 
believe Darryl Strawberry is still in 
the league. Pete Rose makes some 
bets and gets banned for life. 
Strawberry is on his third substance 
abuse offense, and all he gets is a 
one-year suspension. Priorities like 
this are going to be the downfall of 
professional sports.
Most of New York’s competition 
for the division crown will come 
from the Red Sox once again. If 
Pedro Martinez could pitch every 
day, they’d be unbeatable, but as 
things stand now, it’s going to take
The Tribe will have to prove that last 
year’s playoff debacle against Boston was 
a fluke, and, oh yeah, get by New York, 
too.
confuse the growing disparity 
between big-market and small-mar- 
ket clubs for parity, there is more 
balance among the top teams than 
perhaps any time in the past decade. 
With that in mind, let’s see what we 
have on tap for this year.
American League East
It’s hard to bet against the defend­
ing champs, and it’s even harder to 
bet against the rich history of the 
Yankees.
With most of their championship 
squad intact, the Bronx Bombers 
look good to go far in the playoffs
an outstanding effort by the entire 
team to dethrone the Yanks. Boston 
didn’t make any major moves in the 
off-season, but with some added 
experience from last year’s playoff 
run, the Sox may just have what it 
takes down the stretch, assuming 
they aren’t too far out of first 
already.
The dark horse of the division will 
be the. resurgent Blue Jays. Toronto 
was in the wild card race with 
Boston deep into September before 
falling just short, and they should 
do so again. The big question mark 
will be whether Raul Mondesi was
worth giving up Shawn Green. 
Green carried the team all year in 
1999 while Mondesi underachieved 
once again for the Dodgers. 
Mondesi is a good bat to have in the 
lineup, but the price may prove to 
be too steep.
Projected finish:
1. New York Yankees
2. Boston Red Sox (wild card)
3. Toronto Blue Jays
4. Baltimore Orioles
5. Tampa Bay Devil Rays
American League Central
Pencil, no scratch that, write it 
down with a permanent marker, 
Cleveland will win the division yet 
again.
For the seemingly umpteenth 
year, the Indians breezed through 
the 1999 campaign while the rest of 
the division struggled to break the 
.500 barrier, finishing with a 21- 
game lead on the White Sox.
With that out of the way, the Tribe 
will have to prove that last year’s 
playoff debacle against Boston was 
a fluke, and, oh yeah, get by New 
York, too. Once again, the Indians 
failed to obtain a true ace for their 
starting rotation, but if Bartolo 
Colon continues the rapid develop­
ment he showed last year, he’ll 
become a household name around 
the league.
The addition of Chuck Finley adds 
depth and a proven winner against 
the Yankees, and the revamped 
bullpen should have no problem 
See BASEBALL, page 11^

---------------------------------------------------

20 March 2000 THE TARTAN paffc Ljr
Greeks make wishes come true
CEditor’s Note: Cassandra Knight is a member of a sorority, Delta Delta Delta, and participated in Greek Sing.)
by Cassandra KnightStaffwriter
Near the end of a colorful show of 
singing and dancing, a young girl walked 
on stage to remind everyone why the fra­
ternities and sororities put in the effort of 
planning and putting on a show. The 
Make-A-Wish Foundation granted her wish 
in 1995 because this little girl has leukemia 
and her wish was what her mother 
described as “the light at the end of the 
tunneP’-she wished for a pool.
Greek Council’s annual philanthropy 
event, Greek Sing, took place Saturday 
night at Soldiers and Sailors Memorial Hall 
in Oakland. It is a competition between the 
individual Greek houses of Carnegie 
Mellon University in two categories, single 
competition and double competition. This 
event is held to raise money for The 
Western Pennsylvania Make-A-Wish 
Foundation.
Most people would agree that this is 
Greek life at its finest. Most of the shows 
are well-planned and also well thought 
out. Delta Delta Delta opened the show 
with their version of the musical “Chicago,”
which won them the third place trophy in 
the singles category. Delta Delta Delta put 
on a sleek show with sophistication, and 
remarkable choreography and vocals. The 
second-place trophy winners, Pi Kappa 
Alpha, followed them, with an original 
show called “Greek Sing: The Musical.” It 
was an amusing comment on the competi-
• tion itself. It poked fun at the idea of frater­
nities and sororities putting on musical 
shows. Then came Kappa Delta Rho with a 
Greek comedy, “A Funny Thing Happened 
on the Way to the Forum.” Using crude 
humor, they tried to amuse the audience in 
traditional “fratboy” manner. Sigma Nu put 
on a Simpsons farce, taking the audience 
into the life of Homer Simpson, with Troy 
McClure as their guide. The first half of the 
show was closed by Kappa Sigma, with 
their traditional satire of CMU Greek life. 
Using recent events, they embraced their 
Greek image, the good and the bad, in a 
highly amusing fashion.
After the intermission, Alpha Epsilon Pi 
and Zeta Sigma Psi gave us their rendition 
of the musical “Crazy for You.” They 
showed their diversity and skill with 
impressive singing and dancing, including 
tap. They ended their show with high-fly­
ing acrobatics. Next came Delta Gamma 
and Phi Kappa Theta with an original piece 
called “On the Rise.” Though plagued with 
technical difficulties, as most shows were, 
they still managed to bring home the sec­
ond-place trophy in the doubles competi­
tion. Their show was extremely well put- 
together with charismatic vocals and 
choreography. Delta Tau Delta and Kappa 
Alpha Theta, who won first place for the 
second year in a row, followed them. DTD 
and Theta put on an impressive version of 
the show “Damn Yankees,” which was put 
together with amazing acrobatics and 
choreography. Then came Delta Up^ilon 
and Kappa Kappa Gamma with an ener­
getic “Saturday Night Fever.” They won 
third place in the doubles category for their 
valiant effort. The final act to go on was 
Theta Xi with yet another original piece 
tided “Theta Xi Mafia.” Theta Xi took home 
the first place trophy in the singles catego­
ry. They put on an incredible show with 
gorgeous choreography. Due to their earli­
er technical difficulties, Phi Kappa Theta 
and Delta Gamma were allowed to perform 
their show again, though the mics did not 
work much better this time.
The awards ceremony took place right 
after Phi Kap and DG’s second perfor­
mance, and the philanthropy award was 
given to Zeta Psi Sigma, who raised the 
most money for one of the Make-A-Wish 
Foundations. The Chairman’s Choice 
Award was awarded to Matt Lindner of 
DTD for his congeniality. Due to the highly 
competitive nature of this event, the shows 
were all noteworthy. The event gave 
Greeks the opportunity to shine, and was 
entertaining. It was a great success this 
year, and ran more smoothly than in years 
past, despite the technical difficulties.

---------------------------------------------------

LaTHE TARTAN • MARCH 20, 2000
Pittsburgh Symphony Orchestra 
adds new music twist to program
by Aseem GuptaWebmaster
The Pittsburgh Symphony Orchestra’s (PSO) 
Music Director Mariss Jansons has worked relent­
lessly over the last few years to diversify the offer­
ings of the PSO. By doing so, the orchestra hopes 
to bring in a wide audience to Heinz Hall in order 
to introduce more listeners to the diverse world 
of classical music.
A Day of New Music is the most recent endeav­
or in this effort. On March 29, the PSO will join 
forces with the Carnegie Mellon Contemporary 
Music Ensemble, as well as the Duquesne 
University Contemporary Ensemble and the 
University of Pittsburgh’s Music on the Edge 
ensemble. The program will include the music of 
Pierre Boulez and Elliott Carter, who are widely 
regarded as two of the greatest composers alive 
today. The PSO has never played their music.
All of the works featured on the program are by 
still-living composers, written in the last 50 
years. The first half of the program will feature 
works by Pittsburgh area composers. Each musi­
cal group will perform pieces composed by facul­
ty at their schools.
“A Day of New Music is the brainchild of Mariss 
Jansons, who thought it was a wonderful way to 
recognize contemporary music, while at the 
same time showcasing the rich musical talent of 
our young people,” said Gideon Toeplitz, 
Executive Vice President and Managing Director 
of the PSO. “We hope through programs like 
this, as well as the Pittsburgh Symphony’s strong 
history of commissions ... that we can open the 
floodgates of modern musical expression for this 
century.”
The extensive three-hour program will include 
several works. Commencing with Pitt’s Music on 
the Edge Ensemble, the group will play Eric 
Moe’s “Time Will Tell,” followed by Mathew 
Rosenblum’s “Maggies.” Next on the program 
will be CMlTs Contemporary Music Ensemble 
featuring Nancy Galbraith’s “Rhythms and 
Rituals” and Leonardo Balada’s “Divertimentos.”
Galbraith has been an active composer since 
1980. Boston Pops conductor Keith Lockhart, 
who also directed the Contemporary Music 
Ensemble, as well as the PSO’s Mariss Jansons, 
have conducted her works. Balada, who has 
studied with Aaron Copland, among others, at 
the Julliard School, has been teaching at CMU 
since 1970 as a University Professor of 
Composition.
The first half of the program will conclude with 
Duquesne’s Contemporary Music Ensemble play­
ing David Stock’s “Tekiah.” The PSO will take
Courtesy Pittsburgh Symphony Orchestra
Lucas Richman is a conductor for the Pittsburgh 
Symphony Orchestra, unique clasical ensembles.
over the stage for the second half of the program 
under the direction of conductors Edward 
Cumming and Lucas Richman. They will per­
form Elliott Carter’s “Symphony of Three 
Orchestras” and Pierre Boulez’s “Doubles- 
Figures-Prismes.” The program will finish with 
all of the musical groups taking the stage to 
perform Hans Werner Henze’s suite from the 
ballet Udine.
The concert will take place at 7 pm on March 29, 
and tickets are $20 from the PSO at 392-4900.
Presidential Lecture Series features Dr. Wilson, speech on racial divide
by Emily LandesSenior Staffwriter
Last Thursday, March 16th, a large 
and varied audience turned out to see 
Presidential Lecture Series speaker Dr. 
William Julius Wilson address some of 
the ethical, economic and social issues 
raised in his new book, The Bridge over the Racial Divide: Rising Inequality and Coalition Politics. Dr. Wilson, who 
received his PhD in sociology from 
Washington State, is a Harvard profes­
sor and the head of its Joblessness and 
Urban Poverty Research Program at 
the Malcolm Weiner Center for Social 
Policy.
Dr. Wilson’s speech centered on the 
growing inequality between the rich 
and poor in America. He pointed out 
that in the years between 1947 and 
1973, everyone-from those who were 
in the lowest fifth of our economy to 
those in the top five percent-saw their 
real wages increase. He then showed 
how after 1974, those in the lowest 
fifth actually saw a loss in real income, 
while the real income for those in the 
top five percent continued to rise. Dr. 
Wilson further explained that had the 
trend of increasing real income con­
tinued earlier along the same path, 
the current average annual income for 
those in the lowest fifth would be 
$33,000. Instead, the actual average 
income is $13,000.
But Wilson sees hope for the future. 
He told the attentive audience that as 
of the last two years, real wages in the 
poorest fifth of society have actually 
improved. He believes that if this 
recent trend continues, we may reen­
ter the type of economy which allowed 
for the consistent rise in real wages 
between 1947 and 1973.
“That is if we can keep Greenspan 
under control,” he joked, referring to 
the possibility that Federal Reserve 
Chairman Alan Greenspan might raise 
interest rates again in the near future.
In order to continue this recent 
upward trend, Dr. Wilson said that 
now is the time to organize a progres­
sive, non-partisan multiracial coali­
tion which would pressure Democrats 
and Republicans in Congress to con­
sider the needs of “ordinary” citizens.
“A large, strong, and organized 
political constituency is essential for 
the development and implementation 
of policies that will blunt the impact of 
the rising inequality and ease the bur­
dens of ordinary families,” said Dr. 
Wilson. “But as long as middle and 
lower class groups are fragmented 
along racial lines, it will fail to see how 
their combined efforts could promote 
policies that reflect their interests.”
By contrast, Wilson’s envisioned 
progressive multi-racial coalition 
would “take up many issues of race, 
but phrase the discussion in non-racial 
terms.” One example that Wilson gave 
of an issue that such a coalition would 
“take up” is affirmative action, which 
Wilson believes should be changed to 
be called affirmative opportunities. 
He believes that affirmative action 
carries with it the misconception that 
minorities are moving ahead regard­
less of performance in order to fill 
quotas. Affirmative opportunities, 
instead, would look at every person’s 
demonstrated skills and values, and 
not culturally-biased evaluative meth­
ods like the SATs, in order to deter­
mine their merit.
Dr. Wilson claims that not only is 
this proposed coalition viable, but that 
a movement to form one has already 
begun. In May of this year the
National Campaign for Jobs and 
Income will be officially announced in 
Chicago before a congregation of over
1,000 leaders of grassroots communi-! 
ty organizations, civil rights groups, 
women’s rights groups, religious 
groups, and senior citizens’ organiza­
tions.
Perhaps because Dr. Wilson’s pro­
posed coalition would affect a broad 
range of people, his lecture attracted a 
varied audience. As the lecture was a 
part of the Presidential Lecture Series, 
it was therefore free and open to the 
public, thus enticing not only stu­
dents, faculty and staff, but also mem­
bers of the wider Pittsburgh communi­
ty to attend.
Still, students made up approxi­
mately half of the audience at the lec­
ture and many of them were drawn to 
Dr. Wilson’s ideas as well as the inter­
esting insight that he had about many 
issues concerning racial division 
afflicting our country. “I thought his 
ideas were truly revolutionary,” said 
Andress Appolon, a sophomore in 
BHA. “I think that the Carnegie 
Mellon community is divided a lot 
racially and discipline wise. We’re all 
on this campus in a city that is racially 
divided so clearly; the lines are so 
clear-cut between the communities, as 
in the Hill District compared to 
Shadyside. We’re living in a city that is 
like an American disaster, like the 
awful state that he said that we’re in.”
Fellow lecture attendee Mark 
Kamlet, dean of the Heinz School and 
a follower of Dr. Wilson’s writings over 
the past decade, agreed with this 
assessment of Pittsburgh, while also 
emphasizing the ways that Carnegie 
Mellon, particularly the Heinz School, 
is trying to change this division and 
See WILSON, page L5
CMU Ballroom dancing club hosts 10th annual ball room dance competition
by Lynn TaoStaffwriter
Beaming with confidence, in an 
exquisite ballroom gown, she was 
led by a tall, handsome gentle­
man, floating effortlessly across 
the ballroom floor, inspiring awe 
in the spectators...
No, this is not a scene taken 
from Scent of a Woman, but wit­
nessed at Scotch Ball 2000. 
Scotch Ball was the 10th annual 
ballroom dancing competition 
held by the CMU Ballroom 
Dancing Club.
On Saturday, more than 100 peo­
ple from five universities and the 
surrounding Pittsburgh community 
competed in the competition. 
Events included International 
Standard, Latin, and various 
American styles. International 
Standard includes Waltz, Foxtrot, 
and Tango. International Latin 
includes Samba, Cha-Cha, Jive, and 
Rumba.
“Scotch Ball is our biggest 
event of the year. We spend a 
great deal of time and resources 
planning it; we have a position 
within the club whose occupant 
was dedicated to the planning of
the event. Colleges from all over 
the country attend this event,” 
Trevor Carlson says. Carlson, a 
sophomore CIT major, is the vice 
president of the CMU Ballroom 
Dancing Club. He also competed 
in the contest.
This year’s Scotch Ball 
Coordinator was Ajay Juneja, also 
a sophomore.
“I was in charge of registering 
everyone. I had to call up a lot of 
the universities, from New 
England to Kentucky to Indiana. 
In the end, I convinced five col­
leges to show up: George
Washington University, University 
of Michigan, University of Toledo, 
University of Maryland, and Case 
Western Reserve University,” 
Juneja said.
Many CMU undergraduate and 
graduate students also participat­
ed in Scotch Ball. For Lily 
Bigelow, this was her second ball­
room contest.
“I used to watch the Ohio Star 
Ball on TV. I never thought I’d be 
participating in it.” Bigelow 
recalls her experience last semes­
ter at the Ohio Star Ball. “Then I 
was at freshman orientation, and 
I saw the demonstration couple, 
and I pointed and said, ‘that’s
what I want to do.”
Bigelow continued. “I joined 
ballroom, and I started to practice 
a lot. I feel like Ginger Rogers, 
putting a little tap in my dancing. 
I don’t really feel particularly ner­
vous at contests. I mean, I’m 
shaking, but it could just be mus­
cle strain. I’m from rural Missouri, 
we don’t get a chance to do ball­
room there.”
Contestants from other schools 
were placed in temporary hous­
ing. They arrived late Friday 
night and stayed for Saturday and 
Sunday.
“This is my eighth semester 
ballroom dancing. I attend four 
to nine contests a year,” said Mark 
Richman, a contestant from 
George Washington University. 
“Sometimes, I get paired up with 
a random partner who I never had 
the chance to dance with before. 
So I’m all about lead and follow. 
My purpose for being here? 
Dance, dance, dance!”
The contestants were placed in 
Newcomer, Bronze, Silver, and 
Gold categories.
Each respective category signi­
fies a more experienced class of 
dancers. As one moves up the cat­
egories, more moves are added to
the syllabus to demonstrate the 
depth of the dancers’ capabilities.
“The benefits of ballroom danc­
ing? Well, for one, physical fit­
ness. Other benefits including the 
learning of chivalry, manners, eti­
quette, class elegance, glamour -- 
all with a sporty twist” said Terry 
Sweeny. Sweeny served as a 
judge for the contest. In his 15 
years of competitive dancing, 
Sweeny has received many hon­
ors, including the US 
Professionals Semi-Finalist, and 
US Rising Star.
“As a judge, I see my duty as 
fairness. I look for quality con­
sciousness in dancers, when they 
are not only aware of what is 
being danced, but also how it’s 
being danced. I look for good 
posture, footwork, leg move­
ments, as well as that connection 
between dance partners,” Sweeny 
said.
Sweeny continued, “I find it a 
pleasure to make the placement 
as a judge as I believe is fair. It 
takes many years of practice, and 
many diverse factors, which 
determines the level at which you 
dance. These factors include tal­
ent, exposure, teachers’ input, 
and most importantly, practice.”
Peter Wang/Photo Staff
The Scotch Ball featured an exciting ballroom dancing competition for CMU students. One of the couples competing displays their swift movement and elegant composure.
%OF ALSFLERVIC
Business Incubator
• Individual Offices
• 1800 sqf Suite
• 6000 sqf Suite
Internet Ready with Fiber 
Optic Lines
Call: 431-8200, Peter Smerd 
Boulevard Building, Inc.
‘P'Ucect
0Dn¿ue&!
WE BEAT ALL 
PRICES ON HARD, 
TAPE, DLT DRIVES!
Seagate • 2u<uttu*n 
"iVeculett ‘Poc&wi
Call for a Quote
1-800-432-7199
TOYOTA-101
vste flcneacedd vsmeu 
imgtshnCimM UDp N«« 2p0TOYOTA ECHO
THERE’S AN ECHO OUT THERE! Great looks Vo the outside, great room on the inside. 
Cruise the highway at 40 MP(3'...very thrifty. Power? Plenty! It’s a 1.5 liter hi-tech 
16 lumle DOCH engine with variable valve timing (new) that kicks out 194 horsepower 
any time you want it. And best of all, Echo is the lowest priced Toyota!
New (¡Finance Plan] thru Toyota Motor Credit helps those with limited 
credit history buy or lease a new Echo or Célica. See dealer for details.
r <S£> TOYOTA real values, every doyn WWW.gett0y0ta.C0m
g1S. e0mEIume9 32/39 ,Em-!$C- u2moIumElk t?!?i ,Em-!$C- Iu42uM3

---------------------------------------------------

tWiW'»

---------------------------------------------------

Can't remember what happened this weekend?
Buy back your memories
theTHISTLE
2*0*0*0
Order your yearbook today!
Why?
Because you’re a senior/junior/sophomore/first-year/5th year/grad student (choose one) who wants to 
remember the four years or more that you’ve spent on this campus. Don’t think you’ll be featured in 
the yearbook? Contact the Thistle to submit a picture of your organization, team, dorm room or event.
Who?
You, your parents, other relatives or anyone can order a yearbook. To avoid duplicate orders, please 
consult other potential buyers (and maybe they’ll buy it for you anyway!)
When?
The deadline to order is Friday, March 31. The 2000 Thistle will be shipped to your home address 
late this summer.
How?
To order call 1-800-953-5550 or pick up an order form outside The Thistle office (UC 310).
How much?
The cost of the 2000 Thistle is $49 plus tax. Visa, Mastercard, Discover, American Express, and 
checks made payable to Jostens are accepted for payment.
I still don’t understand
Contact us at thistle(2),andrew.cmu.edu or call 412-268-2121.

---------------------------------------------------

THE TARTAN » MARCH 20, 2000L5
Distinguished professor discusses his opinions on race, politics, and society
by Emily LandesSenior Staffwriter
On March 16th, Dr. William Julius Wilson, the Lewis P. and Linda L. Geyser University Professor at Harvard and the head of its joblessness and Urban Poverty Research Program at the Malcolm Weiner Center for Social Policy, spoke to a full house in McConomy Auditorium about some of the ideas covered in his new book The Bridge 
over the Racial Divide: Rising 
Inequality and Coalition Politics. The speech was a part of Carnegie Mellon’s Presidential Lecture Series and was free and open to the public, thus attracting a wide range of stu­dents, faculty, staff, and members of the Pittsburgh community.Dr. Wilson’s speech centered on the growing inequality between the upper 5 percent and lowest fifth of Americans. According to Dr. Wilson’s figures, between 1974 and 1997 the lowest fifth of Americans saw a drop in real income of .28 percent while the upper 5 percent saw a 2.58 per­cent increase of real income. This change has caused a 65% increase in the number of people who worked two jobs between 1980 and 1989, with people citing “economic hard­ships" as the reason for taking on an extra job. Although Dr. Wilson men-
tioned that he believes that President Clinton has sometimes tried to help the working poor, he feels that the needs of “ordinary Americans” are still virtually ignored in the Republican-con­trolled Congress. Therefore, he claims there is a real need for a pro­gressive, non-partisan, multiracial political coalition that will pressure both Democrats and Republicans to address this growing inequality between the rich and poor and make some legislative changes which would support the growth and development of lower-income com­munities.
The Tartan: You mentioned at 
the beginning of your speech that 
you had been to Carnegie Mellon 
several years ago and that you 
were “impressed” by the school 
and the audience. Having some 
background with the school, 
would you say that your talk car­
ried any particular weight here at 
CMU, or in Pittsburgh?Dr. William Wilson: Well, I would 
assume that a lot of students at 
Carnegie Mellon who may be 
involved in some of the multi­
racial coalitions that I spoke about 
would take a particular interest in 
addressing the needs of ordinary 
families. Particularly, some of the 
students and the professors who
are in the Heinz School of Public 
Policy are very much interested in 
some of the issues that I talked 
about. But, I would think that with 
Carnegie Mellon being a first-rate 
university, attracting students who 
are aware and concerned, students 
who are widely read, that many of 
them probably would welcome an
dents and the professors at 
Carnegie Mellon could provide.TT: Does Carnegie Mellon’s rep­
utation as a technical school make 
a difference in terms of what the 
concerns of some of our students 
might be?WW: When I first came here to 
lecture about ten years ago, I was
“I would think that with Carnegie 
Mellon being a first rate university, 
attracting students who are aware and 
concerned, many of them would welcome 
an opportunity to work with some of the 
community organizations.”
— Dr. William Julius Wilson
opportunity to work with some of 
the community-based organiza­
tions that are trying to achieve 
some of the things that I talked 
about. I don’t know much about 
the city of Pittsburgh, but I would­
n’t be surprised if there isn’t an 
effort in this city already under­
way to bring the races and ethnic 
groups together. They could use 
some of the leadership .that the stu­
Harvard Professor and author speaks 
about his new book on racial divide
RACIAL, from page L2
diversify its own ranks. He said, “Pittsburgh has its 
challenges in terms of racial issues and in terms of 
wages for the poorest parts of the population....We’ve 
worked very hard to try and have a diverse faculty and 
a diverse student body and we’ve been very aggres­
sive in trying to have those goals.” Kamlet also men­
tioned that the campus is starting a major diversity 
task force, on which President Cohon is taking the 
lead position.
As the head of the Center for University Outreach, 
rhetoric professor Linda Flower has long been inter­
ested in diversification at Carnegie Mellon, and 
Pittsburgh in general. “We really framed a lot of our 
agenda for the Center for University Outreach 
around issues of work and urban youth, because of 
the kinds of arguments that [Dr. Wilson] was rais­
ing,” she said.
Additionally, she said, both Kamlet and herself have 
been involved in the Carnegie Mellon Community
Think Tank, which tries to cross racial and cultural 
differences and use those differences to help get peo­
ple together to talk about everything from workplace 
environments to welfare.
“I was delighted with his notion of bridging that 
divide because that’s what the think tank has really 
been trying to do.... I think he’s going in exactly the 
right direction,” she said.
History professor Tera Hunter, who introduced Dr. 
Wilson before his lecture, would certainly agree with 
this evaluation of Dr. Wilson and his ideas. Hunter 
was particularly interested in Dr. Wilson’s opinions on 
affirmative action and the need to change public 
opinion about the issue.
“I think people have to be won over by the idea [of 
affirmative action],” she said. “His point was that 
people often have negative associations with the 
term affirmative action because of the things that 
they’ve heard in the mediais and are often miscon­
ceptions.”
The Boyfriend, first premieres at Kresge
by Blake EngelPersonnel Manager
Last weekend the School of 
Music put on a production of The Boyfriend by Sandy Wilson. This 
was the first time a Music School 
production was staged in Kresge 
Theater. Directed by Bruce 
Hostetler, the musical was well 
attended and very clever in its 
choreography and staging.
Set at an elite boarding school 
on the Riviera in the 1920s, the 
musical tells the story of Polly 
and her friends and the romantic 
mischief they get into. “That cer­
tain thing called the boyfriend” is 
what they all seek. The interac­
tion between the guys and gals is 
full of tension and truly a delight 
to watch as it unfolds.
At the beginning of the produc­
tion, the girls swoon over a letter 
Polly gets from a man in Paris. 
Although he is supposed to show 
up and whisk Polly off her feet 
and take her to the big ball, he 
mysteriously goes AWOL and
instead a dark and handsome 
messenger boy named Tony cap­
tures Polly’s interest.
Courtesy Kresge Theater
A scene from The Boyfriend, the first 
musical production at Kresge Theater
In the meantime, the constantly 
watchful eye of Hortence, the 
school’s mistress, keeps the girls 
in check, albeit in a jolly fashion. 
And the unstable couple of Lord
and Lady Brockhurst adds a suspi­
ciously pedophilic tinge as Lord 
Brockhurst pursues the young 
girls. Each time his wife shows up 
at the right time and puts him 
back in his place.
The costumes and stage props 
were also fitting and effectively 
communicated the milieu. The 
lighting and staging went without 
a hitch and. clearly added to the 
show’s impact.
As Polly’s and Tony’s relation­
ship gets more serious, their back­
grounds come into play, Polly as 
the daughter of a millionaire and 
Tony a lowly messenger. At the 
denouement, however, the truth is 
revealed: Tony’s parents are just 
as rich and he was only mas­
querading as a messenger.
All in all, the production was a 
delightful springtime romantic 
comedy. The millieu was enter­
taining and the characters were 
believable. Hopefully, the Music 
School will give the campus and 
the city the pleasure of more 
shows as humorous and fast- 
paced as The Boyfriend.
thinking about Carnegie Mellon 
as a technical university, not real­
ly concerned about the social 
issues that I was addressing. I was 
quite impressed with the audi­
ence, I was impressed with the 
audience today, with how atten­
tive they wçre, the kinds of ques­
tions that they asked. It’s the 
same kind of attention I receive at 
these liberal arts colleges. So, I
came away with the impression 
the first time I was here, and the 
impression has been reinforced, 
that despite the fact that this is a 
technological school, there are a 
lot of people who are interested in 
these basic social issues that I talk 
about.TT: You mentioned the “digital 
divide,” or the separation between 
those who have access to comput­
ers and the Internet and those that 
don’t, in your speech. Do you 
think that this is something that is 
going to be of increasing impor­
tance in the years to come?WW: Absolutely. The technolog­
ical revolution is happening so 
rapidly that if we don’t move 
quickly, we’re in danger of just 
writing off a substantial segment 
of the population. [It is] a popula­
tion that is in danger of becoming 
permanent economic proletariats. 
The interesting thing is that if you 
could increase access to telecom­
munications technologies in the 
disadvant-aged communities, it 
actually could help quell this 
inequality. But if you don’t do 
that, then it just widens inequali­
ty-TT: You also mentioned
President Clinton in your speech 
and the fact that you have spoken 
with him. Do you think that the 
president has fulfilled the promis­
es to ordinary Americans that he 
made in his 1992 campaign?WW: Not really, but he’s proba­
bly done as much as any of the con­
temporary presidents have done 
and he was handicapped by a 
Republican-controlled congress. 
But I’m not as critical as some of 
my colleagues. I think he’s tried to 
do some things.TT: Do you think he made these 
issues less of a concern in his ‘96 
campaign than his ‘92 campaign?WW: I do, but I really appreciat­
ed some of the things that the 
president has been doing, like his 
initiative to increase investments 
in the inner cities, his race-rela- 
tions initiative, some of his 
speeches to support interracial 
unity, his support of affirmative 
action, these kind of things. I give 
him credit for that.TT: What would you say is the 
most important thing for 
Carnegie Mellon students to take 
away from your speech today?WW: I think that the students 
should be aware that there has 
been a proliferation of attempts at 
multi-racial coalition building 
throughout the country and that 
what they should do is check 
what’s going on in their home 
communities, or wherever they 
relocate, and identify with those 
efforts.
McGrath/Photo Staff Manager
An interesting exhibit from CFA’s architecture students’display, this past and upcoming week. Architecture 
majors are required to complete a final project which is then shown for "critique” throughout the entire week.
Mayur organization sponsors event 
highlighting ritual Indian marriages
by Ish HarshawatEditor-In-Chief
& Aseem GuptaWebmaster
Last Friday, the CMU community 
was invited to a typical North Indian 
Hindu wedding (or shaadi), cour­
tesy of Mayur. Audience members 
were given invitations that proudly 
proclaimed: “The Chaturvedi’s and 
the Sharma’s cordially invite you to 
the marriage of Lakshman 
Chaturvedi and Nisha Sharma.”
Anupam Singhal, co-president of 
Mayur, said that the idea of a wed­
ding was something that had come 
up for last fall’s show. “It was some­
thing that was really close to a lot of 
us. An Indian wedding is something 
that is a lot of fun. [It is] something 
that has a lot of significance, that 
means a lot to the bride and groom. 
It is a very significan part of Indian 
culture,” he said.
The show portrayed the entire 
wedding, from the bride and 
groom’s first meeting, the marriage 
itself, and the short-term repercus­
sions. The audience was spectacle to 
a variety of skits, song, and dance 
that unveiled the story of Lakshman 
and Nisha.
For thousands of years, Indian 
marriages have been arranged, and 
the practice is still the most common 
way for two people to wed. The 
show emphasized that in India, a 
wedding has two unions. There is 
the union between the man and 
woman, but also the union between 
two families. For this reason, com­
plications and emotions can reach a 
peak that most Western audiences 
are not used to.
“Trying to portray the different 
personalities between the bride and 
the groom. Trying to keep it subtle 
so that no one was offended. That 
was a little hard,” said Singhal.
Nisha is portrayed as a fiercely 
independent American Indian 
woman, somewhat uncomfortable 
with the notion of marrying a man 
she has never met. Lakshman is stu­
dious and serious, and has never 
been to America. Both come to the 
decision to marry, but it is not an 
easy one. Frequently, both stop and 
share their concerns about their 
future. They want to make the mar-
Anthony D'Auria/Photo Staff
Song and dance helped move along 
the story of a typical Indian wedding.
riage work, not just for themselves, 
but because their parents, too, want 
it to happen.
Balancing these different pres­
sures is not easy. Some of the emo­
tion was evident not just in the 
skits, but in the song and dance as 
well.
The show progressed through 
three stages. In the first stage, 
“Sagai”, or the engagement, we 
meet Nisha and Lakshman. Nisha, 
an Indian American, is doubtful 
about meeting somebody she’s
never met before, and about the 
possibility of marrying somebody 
who is a complete stranger to her. 
She is comforted by the fact that the 
two families know each other very 
well, and they have thought about 
the strengths and weaknesses of 
each family, and how the children 
will interact with each other in mar­
riage. Each of the three parts of the 
program featured a dance and a 
song, and in “Sagai” the cast mem­
bers performed “Kuch Kuch Hota 
Hai,” and the Dance “Key Sera.”
The second movement of the 
piece depicted the “Mehndi” or 
Henna Ceremony where the bride 
Nisha, was decorated for the mar­
riage. The cast sung “Mehndi Laga 
Ke Rakhna,” and performed “Maine 
Payal Hai Chankai.”
The show’s last enertainment 
section was “Geet Sammelan” or 
Music Dance Evening which 
depicted the two families together 
celebrating the impending mar­
riage. They sang and danced, and 
the song “Antakshari” depicted a 
back and forth contest beween the 
two families in which the children 
tried to outsing the children from 
the opposite family. The prize for 
the winners was a cash reward 
from the groom’s father. The seg­
ment concluded with a colorful 
dance, “Dholna.”
The show concluded with a 
somber ceremony in which Nisha 
was wedded to Lakshman. The 
narrator described the seven steps 
that the couple took in their path 
toward marriage. Overall the 
show was an enriching experience 
for all in attendance, and was an 
enlightening look at North Indian 
culture.
Carnegie Almanac
50 YEARS AGO
March 22, 1950 — Junior men’s 
honorary society Delta Skull 
made two revisions in its constitu­
tion to change how men were 
selected into the organization. 
First, candidates would have to 
come from the upper third of their 
class, whereas there were previ­
ously no such academic require­
ments. In addition, candidates 
would now have to be involved in 
campus extracurricular activities. 
Candidates who met these 
requirements would be allowed to 
interview for one of the 15 posi­
tions in the organization.
25 YEARS AGO
March 18, 1975 — Senate’s 
Finance Committee chair 
announced that Student Senate 
allocated approximately $10,000 
more than it expected to take in 
from the Activities Fee. Senate 
discussed possible solutions to the 
financial crisis, which included 
cuts of 15%-20% across all orga­
nizations’ budgets and a roll-back 
to the previous year’s allocations.
10 YEARS AGO
March 20, 1990 — An investiga­
tion by Student Affairs of the 
Alpha Tau Omega fraternity 
uncovered no evidence that the 
group engaged in hazing. The 
investigation was prompted by 
Campus Police reports detailing a 
pledge running out of the house to 
Morewood Avenue naked during 
an initiation ritual. ATO’s nation­
al said that while they would con­
tinue investigating the incident, 
they thought it was just one of the 
stupid things that members some­
times do.
FIVE YEARS AGO
March 13, 1995 — Student 
Senate unaminously passed a graffi­
ti resolution to prohibit defacement 
of University property. This policy 
was prompted by vandalism around 
the fence area, particularly on the 
trees and sidewalk.
Serious violations would result in 
Senate-recognized organizations 
having their budget frozen or hav­
ing their funding and/or recogni­
tion revoked. Sidewalk chalking
was discussed, and this non-perma­
nent form of expression was permit­
ted, provided that it was non­
destructive or libelous.
ONE YEAR AGO
March 15, 1999 — Filmmaker 
Michael Moore came to campus to 
talk about getting involved in politi­
cal and social issues. Sponsored by 
AB Lectures, the talk was humorous 
but also raised a number of serious 
philosophical issues. Moore, whose 
film Roger and Me detailed the 
downsizing of GM in Flint, 
Michigan, has become known as 
someone who was willing to chal­
lenge corporate America
Moore spoke of his new cable tele­
vision show The Awful Truth, which 
was an uncensored version of his 
previous Fox show TV Nation. 
Moore showed clips from his new 
show, which include a scene where 
he tried to bring house warming 
gifts such as a Dirt Devil and Mr. 
Coffee for Bill Gates’s new $60 mil­
lion home.
Compiled by 
Seth Mandel

---------------------------------------------------

Business
20 March 2000THE TARTANPage L6
CMU Inc.
Wagons head west 
for CMU startup
Denver-based Westwind Media 
has purchased Grand Illusion 
Studio, which uses a technology 
called the synthetic interview. The 
CMU startup has created solutions 
ranging from simulated doctors at 
Children’s Hospital of Pittsburgh to 
a virtual professor Albert Einstein, 
accessible via the Internet. The 
Carnegie Mellon spin-off was creat­
ed in 1997 to develop commercial 
products. Westwind Media.com has 
agreed to maintain a 10 person 
research and development office 
downtown in order to stay near to 
breaking technological advances at 
Carnegie Mellon and to fulfill a stip­
ulation placed by Grand Illusion and 
Innovation Works. Innovation 
Works has provided area startups 
with seed capital.
The synthetic interview technolo­
gy uses a videotaped interview with 
a character, either a real person or 
an actor, playing the role. A search- 
engine then matches a user’s ques­
tion with the most appropriate 
response. The CMU researchers who 
developed the technology are Scott 
Stevens, Michael Cristel, Alex 
Hauptmann and Don Marinelli. 
Terms of the all-stock deal were not 
made public.
Octane high on 
SneakerLabs
The Pittsburgh Post-Gazette is 
reporting that Oakland-based 
Sneaker Labs will be purhcased by 
Octane, a Silicon Valley software 
company, for over $100 million.
SneakerLabs is known for its soft­
ware which allows consumer inter­
action via tet, web presentations, 
collaborative browsing on the 
Internet. Manu Kumar, a CMU com­
puter science graduate, founded the 
company in 1996. SneakerLabs 
employs 18, but Octane CEO Jim 
Doehrman hopes to build a develop­
ment center and attract new engi­
neers from CMU and Pitt at its 
Pittsburgh office.
Octane, a company with over 225 
employees and $3 million in rev­
enue, produces software that man­
ages customer relations for compa­
nies that sell products through the 
Web, phone or e-mail. Last week, 
E.piphany, a larger Web develop­
ment company, bought Octane fora 
deal worth $2.3 billion.
SneakerLabs and Kumar would be 
compensated generously with 
approximately 5 percent of 
E.piphany’s outstanding stock. The 
deal would increase Kumar’s net 
worth more than $50 million.
Compiled by 
Bryan Kaplan
H and Canary hamper hellacious hackers
by Brad GrantzBusiness Editor
Carnegie Mellon senior computer 
science major, Jeremy Horn, is cre­
ating quite a stir in the field of net­
work security with his startup, H, 
LLC. Headquartered in Massachusetts 
and currently operating out of 
Pittsburgh, H, LLC is primed to release 
a pair of network security products, 
the industry’s first comprehensive line 
of intrusion detection products, the 
Canary and Canary Lite. Intrusion 
detection is an attempt to locate 
hacker traffic on a network and 
report the specifics of the activity to 
the system administrators.
The Canary Lite is a host-based 
intrusion detection system. Host- 
based refers to programs that run 
upon the systems for which they 
were created and deployed to pro­
tect. The Canary Lite is comprised 
of five major components capable of 
running and working together, indi­
vidually, or in conjunction with 
other network security products.
The Canary is a network-based 
intrusion detection system. 
Network-based intrusion detection 
can be centralized or distributed 
among various computers on the 
desired networks. This approach 
allows for the monitoring of a net­
work from a subset of the network’s 
computers without the need to 
intrude upon or maintain the other 
systems on the network with respect 
to the detection of intruders. The 
Canary consists of 11 components 
enabling, for the first time, a proac­
tive approach to intrusion detec­
tion.
H is currently in first-round talks 
with many interested parties with 
respect to garnering the required 
capital to bring the company to the
next level of competition.
“To successfully enter the net­
work security market, we need to 
acquire funds to compete with those 
companies already entrenched,” 
Horn stated.
“That competing includes havi 
full product life cycle support and 
the ability to grow and advance the 
comprehensiveness of the Canary 
product line’s components,” he said.
Although one may gain the 
impression that H is merely a group 
of programmers, the company 
spans the spectrum of CMU’s acade­
mic attributes. With 30 employees, 
H contracts the services of students 
in the financial and marketing 
tracks of GSLA, arts and design of 
CFA, as well as those skills of the 
students of SCS.
However, H’s resources and con­
nections are not limited to CMU. 
With the exception of his office, 
Horn relegates duties and responsi­
bilities via his cell phone and 
Pittsburgh office to H’s business and 
patent lawyers, consultants, and 
executives in Cincinnati, Chicago, 
San Francisco, and New York.
The highly competitive intrusion 
detection market is constructed of 
several major companies and a vari­
ety of products.' Even with the 
numerous amount of corporations 
currently within the realm of net­
work security, such as CISCO 
Systems, not one of them has devel­
oped an intrusion detection pack­
age with a proactive and fully com­
prehensive approach to intrusion 
detection with full product life-cycle 
support. Hence, the need for H.
The recent hacker attack on major 
Web sites is estimated to cost $100 
million from lost advertising rev­
enue alone. In light of those 
instances at popular web sites
Bryan Kaplan/Photo Editor
Jeremy Horn is leading the intrusion detection industry with his company’s 
products: the Canary. H, LLC is nearing completion of the ID software, which 
will help find hacker attacks on a network.
Amazon.com and Yahoo.com, H may 
be one of the few bright spots on the 
horizon.
It is possible that in the near 
future, Carnegie Mellon’s own 
Software Engineering Institute’s 
Coordinated Emergency Response 
Team (CERT), when responding to a 
hacker problem, will not be sifting 
through tremendous numbers of log 
files of system usage in an attempt 
to extrapolate what has occurred, 
but will use the resources of the 
Canary product line. Horn envi-
sions that they will be able to go to a 
single location on the intruded net­
work, obtain all the data they need, 
amd be presented with solid evi­
dence for the system’s conclusions 
and projections. He thinks they will 
be able to save hundreds of man 
hours necessary to manually sort 
through the masses of data by work­
ing at a source with all the required 
data assembled in one place. Hence, 
CERT will draw conclusions to pre­
vent and correct the detected net­
work infractions.
Competition brings a consultant’s lifestyle to students
courtesy Andersen Consulting
Undergraduate students gathered at the second annual eCommerce Challenge 
to discuss an e-commerce strategy for the fictious Andrew Steel Corporation.
sisting of 12 teams of five studentsby Huiya XuStaffwriter
In early February, the second 
annual Andersen Consulting 
eCommerce Challenge took place at 
CMU. On the evening of Friday, 
February 4th, the contestants, con-
each (undergraduate and/or gradu­
ate), were presented with a case 
study regarding Andrew Steel 
Corporation (ASC), a fictitious steel 
company which was trying to devel­
op an e-commerce strategy which 
would enable them to market and
Market News
MARKETSDOW JONES INDUSTRIALS THIS WEEK
Index Close Open Point Chg. % Change
Dow Jones Industrials 10,596.23 9,862.12 +734.11 +7.44%Nasdaq Composite 4,798.13 4,590.50 +207.63 +4.52%
American Stock Ex. 1,011.00 943.54 +67.46 +7.15%
Standard & Poors 1,464.47 1,333.36 +131.11 +9.83%
WORLD MARKETS_________________________;___________________
Index
FTSE 100 (Britain) 
Nikkei (Japan)
DAX (Germany)
Close
6,558.00
19,566.32
7,710.92
Open
6,198.00
19,187.88
7,738.68
Point Chg.
+360.00
-251.56-27.76
% Change
+5.81%-1.27%
-0.36%Philly says no to Guinness
PHILADELPHIA (AP) - On the day 
to celebrate all things Irish, the most 
popular Irish beer was not available at 
some Philadelphia pubs.
At least 10 local Irish bars are refus­
ing to serve some Guinness Bass 
Import Co. products — the Irish brew 
Guinness and the English beers Bass 
and Harp—because of the company's 
involvement in starting up new Irish 
theme bars around the country.
“Even when Guinness wasn’t so 
popular, we were selling it. Now 
they’re opening our competition and it 
just doesn't seem ethical," said 
Heather Coyne, assistant manager at 
The Dickens Inn, the only English tav­
ern to join the protest. Dickens 
stopped selling Bass, Harp and Coors 
Light, which is sold by Guinness' local 
distributor.
The protest appears to be limited to 
Philadelphia. Among those involved in 
the protest are the city’s premier Irish bar, 
Plough and The Stars, which is not selling 
Bass, and the city’s oldest bar, McGillin’s 
Olde Ale House, which stopped selling
Guinness, Bass and Harp.
“This is America: There’s a lot of 
great beers here,” McGillin's owner 
Chris Mullins said from a packed bar 
on St. Patrick’s Day. “We’re the oldest 
bar in Philadelphia and we did not 
have Guinness before I bought the bar 
in 1993. We survived a long time with­
out Guinness and we can make it with­
out them now."
At issue is Guinness’ commercial 
development division, which the pub 
owners describe as a sort of incubator 
for new bars.
Tim Kelly, president of North 
American sales at the company's 
Stamford, Conn. offices, did not 
immediately return a call for com­
ment Friday.
“Having been a great part 
[Guinness’s] success, we feel in a 
great part betrayed that they are par­
tially responsible for helping other 
people go into business against us,” 
said Mark O’Connor, an owner of the 
Irish Pub who is coordinating 
Philadelphia’s protest.
THE TARTAN STOCK INDEX
About the index: The index is based on 16 widely held stocks that 
we feel represent Pittsburgh based and national companies that 
CMU students are interested in. The index is based on a start-date 
of 24 January. The initial index is calculated by adding the value 
of the 16 stocks together and multiplying by 10.
THE INDEX AT A GLANCE
Open: 11,146.88 Close: 11,690.00 
Change: +543.13 Percent change:+4.87%
Year to date change: -1266.87 Year to date percent change: -10.20%
Best performer: USAirways, +3 9/16, +19.10%
INDEX STATISTICS- 3 WEEK PERIOD
,oIsu4-pse43,Mo0e,+u4We
.Mlou/n t!ihh? ii!ih6a i!r
.ssMe ,oIs2ediin t!Hirai? a!H
,E0lo 8-0meI0itr t!?itar i!?
@deeIudBem0i'ri'?r
$3x3 $eE4N ,o3tr ii!ihtr ii!ihn
V-lo0hr )/i'
ReMMo4 Du4Br' t!Htr a!ihZia!ih
REldo0oAm'i a!ih'' t!HH i!ih
ÄeC KodB vEIe0t' ii!ih ?t a!iht a!H
SÄ, Du4Bt/ a!H?t ii!ihh i!ih
SS:?' i!ihan i!ihi
ú2uMloIIitt '!ihith i!?r ii!ih
824 REldo3't t!?'h i!Hr t!H
G8.EdCu-0iH ii!ihrr i!?t '!ih
G8& 8meeMri a!Hrt i!?i a!H
Market data sources: NYSE,NASDAQ, & The AP. The information 
contained in "Market News" is not to be construed as financial 
advice from The Tartan or Carnegie Mellon University.
sell their products on the Internet; 
and to make use of Web-enabled 
technologies to improve their order 
fulfillment and customer service 
functions. After a short introduc­
tion to the case, the contestants 
were allowed to leave the building 
with a binder full of information 
related to the case.
The next morning, a little more than 
12 hours later, the contest began in 
earnest. The participants feverishly 
raced to come up with a creative, effec­
tive, and practical e-commerce solu­
tion for ASC. Throughout the day, the 
room was abuzz with activity. 
Contestants constantly shuffled in and 
out of the room to meet with key client 
representatives from ASC, who were 
portrayed by the CMU faculty mem­
bers and Andersen Consulting execu­
tives who also served as the judges for 
the competition.
Every group busied themselves 
discussing their strategies and com­
ing up with ways to convince the 
judges that their solution was 
indeed the best for ASC’s needs. By 
4 pm, each team had formulated 
their case solution into a coherent
strategy, a complete PowerPoint 
presentation, and a persuasive 
speech to give to the panel of 
judges. After the first round of pre­
sentations were given to the judges, 
three groups were picked as final­
ists. The overall quality of the pre­
sentations was so strong that thee 
finalists were chosen.
The three groups each presented 
their cases to a larger panel of 
judges. The first place group, masters 
students in CMU’s E-Commerce and 
Human Computer Interaction pro­
grams, received a prize of $500 per 
group member. The two second 
place groups each received $250 per 
group member. They were mostly 
undergraduates and consisted of 
computer science, economics, busi­
ness administration, design, and elec­
trical and computer engineering stu­
dents.
“It was definitely an intense experi­
ence. I would recommend this com­
petition to anybody who is even 
thinking about being a consultant or 
wants a taste of a consultant’s life,” 
said Cuong Do, a competition contes­
tant.
Biz Briefs
FreeMarkets Inc. 
dots the ‘i’
PITTSBURGH (AP) — Online auc- 
tion house FreeMarkets Inc. is pur­
chasing iMark.com Inc of Austin, 
Texas, a business-to-business 
Internet marketplace for surplus 
equipment and inventory, for $320 
million.
Under terms of the deal, 
FreeMarkets will exchange 1.75 mil­
lion of its common stock shares and 
options for all of the outstanding 
shares and options in the privately 
held iMark.com. The acquisition will 
be accounted for as a purchase and is 
expected to be finalized by March 31.
The deal calls for the FreeMarkets 
Online Asset Marketplace to be com­
bined with the iMark.com Internet 
marketplace to form the new 
FreeMarkets Surplus Asset 
eMarketplace. It will feature a net­
work of buyers and sellers that 
includes some 20,000 registered 
users, $265 million in posted assets 
and $28 million in asset sales to 
date.
FreeMarkets said Wednesday the 
deal will allow for a round-the-clock 
Web site exchange where sellers will 
be able to post surplus equipment 
and inventory for buyers.
Launched in September 1999, 
iMark.com did not generate materi­
al revenues last year.
FreeMarkets has made a name for 
itself with online auction markets 
for industrial parts, raw materials, 
commodities and services.
BMW in limbo
MUNICH, Germany (AP) — Ford 
Motor Co. has been talking to BMW 
about possibly taking over the luxu­
ry Munich-based automaker, a 
newspaper reports.
Citing sources at BMW, Welt am Sonntag reports in a story to be pub­
lished Sunday that middlemen 
below the highest corporate levels- 
from the companies have been talk­
ing for three months.
In Detroit, Ford spokeswoman 
Anne Doyle said Saturday that “we 
don't comment on speculation, and 
that’s what it is — purely specula­
tion.”
Volkswagen and General Motors 
Corp. have also renewed their inter­
est in taking over BMW since the 
Munich-based luxury automaker 
decided to get rid of its loss-making 
British Rover unit, Welt am Sonntag 
said.
BMW announced last week that it 
will sell the Land Rover division to 
Ford for $2.91 billion, while British 
investment group Alchemy Partners 
Ltd. has agreed to take over the MG 
and Rover passenger car divisions.
Compiled by 
Brad Grantz
OSI only bright spot on NASDAQ’s tumble
MARKET MADNESS
by Thaddeus Billman
The Dow Jones Industrial Average 
finished down 35 points Friday, con­
cluding one of the wildest weeks in 
market history. But the real story 
wasn’t the Dow; it was the NASDAQ.
The week began innocently 
enough, with the NASDAQ opening 
just below Friday’s close of 5048.63. 
However, it wasn’t long before sell­
ers began to drive prices lower; by 
Monday’s close'the NASDAQ was 
down over 140 points, or 2.8%. The 
sell-off continued Tuesday, as the 
NASDAQ lost just over 200 points, 
or 4.1%. On Wednesday, panic set in 
and sellers drove the NASDAQ down 
another 2.6%. The sell-off wasn’t 
quite over yet, as the index contin­
ued to fall Thursday morning, 
reaching a low of 4455, 11.7% off 
Friday’s close and 13.2% off its all 
time high, before turning up again. 
Encouraged by the NASDAQ "going 
green" (showing a gain for the day) 
buyers re-entered in mass, driving 
the index back to 4717, completely 
erasing Wednesday’s loss. The NAS­
DAQ was able to finish the week at 
4798.13, down nearly 5% for the 
week, but up over 7.6% from its low.
Meanwhile, the Dow finished the 
week up 5.8%, reversing its trend of 
under performing the NASDAQ 
week after week. However, it 
remains down 7% for the year, well 
below the NASDAQ’s 16% gain for 
the year. The broader S&P 500 fin­
ished the week up nearly 5% and 
stands even for the year.
Speculative stocks were hit hard­
est by the NASDAQ’s drop, as could 
be expected. NeoRx (NERX), a small 
biotech company, lost 38P/o for the 
week and is down nearly 74% from 
its high. However, it is still more 
than triple its pre-speculation levels. 
Micronet Wireless (NOIZ) lost 23% 
and is down over 63% from its high, 
but remains up 80% from its pre­
speculation levels. The company 
was rumored to be in negotiations 
with Microsoft, despite denying 
such reports.
The recent super hot IPO, Palm 
Inc. (PALM), is now down over 66% 
from its high, but still has a market 
cap of over $31 billion. 3COM 
(COMS), which owns well over 90% 
of Palm, is valued at "only" $23 bil­
lion, indicating that PALM still has a 
long way to fall.
While the NASDAQ was down for 
the week, a few select stocks were
able to post significant gains. OSI 
jumped 13 3/16 Friday, after 
announcing a potential break­
through in fiber optic data transfer 
technology. Their new silicon-based 
data detector can achieve transfer 
rates up to 2.5 gigabytes/sec. Saf T 
Lok (LOCK), a company that makes 
gun locks, more than doubled 
before profit taking left it with a 
62% gain on Friday. The stock has 
spiked many times over the past 
year, in wake of Columbine High 
School and other school shootings, 
which have drawn attention to gun 
control issues.
Initial public offerings (IPO) also 
began to turn sour as only two deals 
that priced this week posted signifi­
cant gains. Universal Access (UAXS) 
was the big winner, gaining some 
164% after pricing at $14 a share. 
The gain was powered, in part, by 
the backing of Internet Capital 
Group (ICGE), the Web’s most 
famous venture capital group. The 
week’s next most anticipated IPO, 
Caldera Systems (CALD) was 
delayed until this coming week. 
Several former high-flying IPOs 
broke their offering price this week, 
which is thought of as a bad sign for 
a stock’s near future.

---------------------------------------------------

THE TARTAN • MARCH 20. 2000
Marketplace debate stirs group coalition
by Greg NofiEntertainment Editor
As the Marketplace at Fifth and 
Forbes project continues to produce 
heated debate between rival fac­
tions, City councilman Sala Udin 
has combined forces with the 
Pittsburgh Downtown Partnership 
(PDP) to gather community input 
and involvement in the retail devel­
opment project. The Councilman 
and PDP have established the 
Downtown Planning Collaborative, 
an organization of stakeholders and 
interested parties. The Collaborative 
recently held a weekend information­
al conference on March 3 and 4 about 
projects in other cities. 
Representatives from downtown 
renewal projects, in Seattle, Norfolk, 
Denver, Kalamazoo, and Cincinnati 
were on hand to give presentations in 
regards to the processes their respec­
tive cities went through to revitalize 
their once-prosperous epicenters.
With the exception of Dana 
Crawford of Urban Neighborhoods 
Inc, of Denver, none of the panelists 
dealt with a true urban shopping 
corridor. Crawford extolled the 
local flavor and Main Street princi­
ples embraced in Larimar Square in 
downtown Denver.
The Main Street Program was 
developed by the National Trust as a 
way to understand and reinvigorate 
dying Main Streets as suburban 
shopping centers begin to displace 
commercial, enterprise in local 
downtowns. The Main Street pro­
gram involves four principles: orga­
nization of local stakeholders, pro­
motion of a main street area, urban 
design, and economic revitaliza­
tion. Unlike the rival proposals by 
Urban Retail Properties (URP) and 
Pittsburgh History and Landmarks 
Foundation (PHLF), the Main Street 
program stresses incremental devel­
opment instead of wholesale urban 
renewal. Additionally, the Main 
Street program emphasizes eco­
nomic revitalization before archi­
tectural issues.
Crawford and several other indi­
viduals began purchasing older 
downtown structures in Denver 
1965 to preserve them from the 
mortality of the urban renewal 
wrecking ball. Her organization 
began attracting individual owners 
of unique shops. Afterwards, they 
focused on national retailers. 
Larimar Square also developed loft 
housing in the 1960s to establish a 
consumer base downtown.
Perhaps the evening’s most lively 
panelist was Jack Rouse of Jack 
Rouse Associates of Cincinnati. 
Rouse’s firm led the design and 
implementation of a community- 
approved plan for a large brown- 
field site along the Ohio River in 
Cincinnati, aptly dubbed “The 
Banks.” As Cincinnati finished plan­
ning for two new sports stadiums, 
Rouse and others began work to fill 
the void between the two struc­
tures. Although “The Banks” was 
created in a vacant space, Rouse 
emphasized several important pro­
ject points which could be applied 
to Fifth and Forbes. First, he noted
the importance of regional
approval. Rouse and a 16-member 
non-partisan, non-political commit­
tee gathered a large amount of com­
munity input. Additionally, the pro­
ject gathered a 99 percent approval 
rating. Secondly, the development 
had to reflect the identity of 
Cincinnati. From the outset, “The 
Banks” rejected the renowned “big- 
box retailers,’ from Planet
Hollywood to megaplexes. The ven­
ture also was a private affair, plac­
ing the decisions out of the political 
spectrum.
Despite their obvious suburban 
feel, representatives from Norfolk, 
Seattle, and Kalamazoo sung the 
praises of their big box retail estab­
lishments and shopping malls in 
their respective downtowns. Most 
notable was Norfolk’s MacArthur 
Center. Although the shopping 
structure was built in place of park­
ing lots, it is indentical to suburban 
shopping malls. Nevertheless, each 
pointed to the need for local flavor, 
community involvement, and a resi­
dential component.
The PDP Collaborative is plan­
ning several breakdown sessions in 
the coming weeks to focus on par­
ticular subjects. Members will dis­
cuss the relocation plan, retail mer­
chant mix, financing and redevelop­
ment aspects, urban design, as well 
as disruption mitigation. Each 
stakeholder session will gain com­
mittee input and focus on the pros 
and cons of the Fifth and Forbes 
plan of URP, PHLF as well as the 
Main Street Program.
Shutdown would crush student plans
US AIR, from page 1
Continental, and United who 
have frequent services on the three 
affected Pittsburgh routes.
Delgadillo advised students to call 
the US Airways central reservations 
number as soon as possible to 
arrange for rerouting, a refund, or 
alternate bookings. “Make other 
travel plans,” said Delgadillo. 
“Travel from Columbus or Dayton, 
or consider driving.”
A representative for US Airways 
at its headquarters in Arlington, 
Virginia refused to comment on spe­
cific aspects of the potential shut­
down and said only that, 
“Negotiations are underway under 
the auspices of federal mediation,” 
and that “[US Airways] is singly 
focused on getting a result.” He 
also advised students to contact US 
Airways reservations, but refused to 
comment on what specific actions 
the airline was taking to accommo­
date its customers, saying only that 
alternatives would be handled on a 
case-by-case basis.
Even if the airline and the flight 
attendants do not reach an agree­
ment by this Friday night, the airline 
could be prevented from shutting 
down. Under the Railway Labor 
Act, President Clinton has the power 
to prevent the airline from ceasing 
its operations, and can force the air- 
, line to recommence operations, 
even if it does shut down on 
Saturday morning. This action 
would enable to flight attendants to 
strike and their actions would be 
“minimal compared to extreme and
Dd-u4 TusMu4!S+omo 19Emod
The flight attendant’s decision to selectively strike would cut crucial routes 
from Pittsburgh to Atlanta, Newark, and Chicago. However, the management’s 
decision to shut down the airline would all but close Greater Pitt.
drastic,” opined Delgadillo.
He also emphasized the impact 
that a shutdown could have on the 
Pittsburgh community. US Airways 
has 2,000 flight attendants living in 
the Pittsburgh metropolitan area, as 
well as an additional 1,400 who 
refer to Pittsburgh as their city of 
residence. Furthermore, 12,000 
employees, who are not flight atten­
dants, are also Pittsburgh area resi­
dents. “The company has decided to 
impact the local area,” he said.
According to the AFA, each day 
that the airline fails to operate will 
cost the airline and its shareholders 
$35 million. A week without opera­
tions would cost the airline $300
million. “We are advising local leg­
islators of the situation,” said 
Delgadillo. “We are working with 
the county government.”
USAirways (NYSE: U) has seen its 
share price plummet in the last year 
from a high of 58 5/8 to Friday’s 
closing price of 22 1/4, and has lost 
nearly $2.7 billion in market capital­
ization over the last year. Its stock 
priced has been highly volatile over 
the last few weeks, hitting a 52- 
week low of 17 7/16. The future of 
the airline, with nearly $1.3 billion 
in cash and credit, may be in jeop­
ardy if a shutdown lasts beyond a 
few days. US Airways stock was up
3 9/16 for the past week.
CMU economics professor teaches IMF, World Bank, Congress important Olesson
PITTSBURGH (AP) — A congres­
sional commission studying the 
World Bank and the International 
Monetary Fund is calling for a major 
overhaul in how both lend billions 
of dollars to the world's nations. 
Among other things, a majority of 
the commission wants the World 
Bank to stop lending money in Asia 
and Latin America to avoid duplica­
tion of regional development banks 
but continue lending in Africa and 
Europe.
Allan Meltzer, a CMU economics
professor and chairman of the 
International Financial Institution 
Advisory Commission, discussed 
the report Hiesday, March 14. It will 
be the subject of hearings before the 
Senate Banking Committee this 
week in Washington. Last week, the 
commission said its 11-member 
panel had unanimously supported a 
proposal that the IMF restrict its 
efforts to short-term relief for mem­
bers having trouble meeting their 
balance-of-payment obligations.
The Clinton administration, push­
ing its own package of IMF changes, 
also has recommended that the 182- 
nation institution leave long-term 
development loans to its sister lend­
ing organization, the World Bank.
In another unanimous vote, the 
panel recommended that the IMF, the 
World Bank and the various regional 
development banks forgive all of the 
loans they are carrying to around 40 
of the world's poorest nations, many 
of them in sub-Saharan Africa. The 
IMF and the World Bank were formed 
at the end of World War II to intervene
in currency crises and finance projects 
in developing nations. The IMF 
declined to comment on the report.
According to Meltzer, the report 
also said regional development 
banks and the World Bank should 
stop lending most of its money to 
mid-income countries, which can 
get private funds. That would free 
money to go to countries truly in 
need, Meltzer said. More than 70 
percent of World Bank loans — bil­
lions of dollars — go to 11 countries 
that have access to capital markets,
the report said. John Donaldson, 
who handles legislative issues for 
the World Bank, said Tuesday that 
his organization considered many of 
the commission's recommendations 
impractical and counterproductive.
“Basically, we think their recom­
mended actions are derived from a 
fundamentally flawed view of the 
world,” Donaldson said. “If we can 
bring money to the table, other 
money will come to the table.”
The commission was created by 
Congress in 1998 as a condition for
increasing U.S. financial support to 
the IMF. Six members were appoint­
ed by House and Senate Republican 
leaders and five by Democratic con­
gressional leaders. The commission 
approved the report, 8-3. In 
December, Treasury Secretary 
Lawrence Summers offered a pack­
age of IMF reforms that anticipated 
many of the commission's recom­
mendations, including scaling back 
loan operations and refocusing 
efforts on providing emergency 
loans to countries in financial crisis.
RETIREMENT INSURANCETUITION FINANCING
Why is TIAA-CREF the #1 choice nationwide?*
The TIAA-CREF Advantage.°fpsfortag.
Year in and year out, employees at education and 
research institutions have turned to TIAA-CREF. And for 
good reasons:
• Easy diversification among a range of expertly 
managed funds
• Solid performance and exceptional personal service
• Strong commitment to low expenses
• Plus, a full range of flexible retirement income options
With an excellent record of accomplishment for more 
than 80 years,TIAA-CREF has helped professors and staff 
at over 9,000 campuses across the country invest for— 
and enjoy—successful retirements.
Choosing your retirement plan provider is simple. Go 
with the leader: TIAA-CREF.
THE TIAA-CREF ADVANTAGE
Proven Performance
Low Expenses
Highly Rated
Quality Service
Trusted Name
Ensuring the future 
for thD5e who shape it.1 800 842-2776
www.tiaa-cref.arg
According to DALBAR, Inc, a financial services research firm. In its most recent study, 1997 Defined Contribution Excellence flatingj,TIAA-CREF was voted number one in partici­
pant satisfaction. TIAA-CREF Individual and Institutional Services. Inc distributes CHEF certificates and interests in the T1AA Real Estate Account. Teachers Personal Investorspant satisfaction.TIAA-CREF Individual and Institutional Services. Inc distributes 
Se*vices,lncdlstrlbutesthe' 
and annuities. TIAA-CREF T 
For more complete information 
Invest or send money. C 2000TIAA-CREF 1/00.
© € I I Y
AUDITIONS
t ROCKETTES
SINGERS 
WHO DANCE
MALE & FEMALE 
DANCERS
CHILDREN
Don’t miss the opportunity to perform 
in the #1 show in America, 
the Radio City Christmas Spectacular '!
All performers must be at least 18 years of age to audition. Radio City is committed to racially- 
diverse casting for all roles.
Rockettes must he between 51 5m" and 5’ 10W" tall. Be prepared to learn tap and jazz combina­
tions.
Male & Female Dancers should be prepared to learn ballet and jazz combinations. If you also 
sing, please bring music. All Female dancers MUST work en poinre and must have their 
pointe shoes with them to audition.
Male & Female Singers bring an up tempo and a ballad in your key. An accompanist will he 
provided. No cassette tapes will be permitted. Be prepared to dance.
Children (age 7-14) must be under 4’11" and should be prepared to dance. We may ask you 
to sing. Girls must work en pointe.
Pittsburgh
Pittsburgh Playhouse
222 Craft Avc. (in Oakland)
Thursday, A/nil 6
10:00 am - Rockettes
1:00 pm - Male-Dancers
2:00 pm - Female Dancers
3:30 pm - Male and Female Sinj'ers
5:50 pm - Children
Friday, April 7
Callbacks
For additional information, call
(212) 485-7399
Radio City Audition Hotline 
or visit www.radiocity.com
AGVA contract. Radto Ciry Enrtuunimn .>.wi cquzi opponirrt/ employ«

---------------------------------------------------

Entertainment
r'20 March 2000THE TARTANPage L8
Momo’s Horoscopes
Momo Starbuck
Hey kids. Momo’s been noticing some sagging in her normally svelte figure, so she’s been taking karate lessons to get her posterior back in fine form. In the spirit of Japanese mysticism, I’ve decided to give you 
j some advice of the higher kind in the form of the haiku.Now go easy on Momo all you English majors. I real- 
; ize that I’ve reversed the number of syllables for each 
; line. It should be five syllables, then seven, then five. 
j But 7-5-7 is the only way I know how to do it. I learned [this method from a French art student I met in Paris 
, one summer night who ravished me and, well, never- 
| mind.
J So, listen up my darlings, and don’t forget to kneel 
j when you eat your sushi. 
i
1 Pisces
; (February 19-March 20)
Since you guys are rulers of the sea, here’s a little i advice for the next time you’re stuck in the middle
i of the ocean, with no wind in your sails.
{ Scuba gear is expensive
; Nudity is not:
;• Chicks dig/guys with no chest hair.
Never wear a garter belt 
When the wind is high 
Shave your bikini line.
If your tunimy is flabby 
Don’t take off your shirt 
For it makes Momo crabby.
Gemini
(May 21-June 21)
I know I always"ript on you guys about incest. I 
promise I wop’t do it this week..
Learn to love thy neighbor’s so'ji /. ¦
Who’s back from college ;V ;1
Good things come in small siZ&..-/(Momo knows.
Trust me, Me/mo knows.)j Ammm.
Kind of like Ricolaaaaaaaa. You would look sexy 
in lederhosen.
Vol
Ignorance knows no 
But you did not know j
boundaries
\ When feeling a tad adrift'
I Remove your anchor 
• Guys dig chicks with no chest hair.
Aries
! (March 21-April 19)
J Alright, you rams. Zip your trap and quit your 
| moanin’. It’s time to listen to some wisdom a la 
{ Momo.
Mother Nature is a bitch 
j Take what you can get 
> Your acne is not your fault.
) Life is a box of chocolates 
J I know what you’ll get 
Stop eating the caramel.
Taurus
(April 20-May 20)
You’re such a bully, Taurus. You’re the type who 
kicks the crap out of the school runt because you 
don’t have lunch money.
I hate your kind.
Siblings don't all look alike.
Cancer
(June 22-July 22)
Don’t be a menace to society, Punk.
Spam is banned in Canada.
At least it should be \
I don’t want you in my home.
I see a lovely future
But not if you’re vain
You will die in a mouse trap.
Leo
(July 23-August 22) ,
Why-o why-o why-o did I ever leave Ohio? That 
sorta rhymes with Leo.
Lions will come and they’ll go 
But not if you catch them 
I find duct tape works the best.
The jungle is a vast place 
Watch, you could get lost 
Triple A can kiss my ass.
Virgo
(August 23-September 22)
Virgo ... I want you. I saw you in that toupee the 
other day and niy heart skipped a beat. Really. 
I’m serious. (Well, no I’m not. You’re actually the 
ugliest piece of neinie J have ever seen. Sucker.)
Sticks and stones may break your bones
And.names will hurt you
Go cry somewhere else;, you. wuss.
V- -*asr Vk.Mary had a little lamb /
Your butt is white as
Snow. Watch out, don’t berid over.
Libra
(September 23-October 23)
Libra ... leebraaaaaa ... Leee-Braaaaa.
All libras live in Sweden 
Yo-de-lay-hee-hoo,
Go back to the land of clogs.
I once had a dream, of you 
You smeíled like rósés 
But it was only ointment.
Scorpio
(October 2-November 21)
You think you’re hot stuff with that stinger? I’ve 
seen toothpicks more intimidating than your 
weeny ass.
I once knew a girl oi class
She was a waitress
The best lunch I’ve ever had.
Sometimes life sucks the big one 
And Big One’s my friend.
He tells me that he hates it.
Sagittarius
(November 22-December 21)
I don’t want to go to Sunset Strip. I don’t want to 
feel the emptiness. I don’t want to go to Sunset 
Strip.
Your boobs are sagging lately 
Try wearing a bra 
The sixties are history.
Your girlfriend’s boobs are sagging
Tell her to wear a
Bra. She won’t listen to me.
Capricorn
(December 22-January 19)
Sheep go to heaven. Goats go to hell. Enough 
said.
You’re a sucker Capricorn.
Aphrodisiacs 
Don’t come from KY jelly.
y if
You’ve got the funk, Capricorn.
Yeah, you’ve got the funk.
Boogie down with your bad self.
Aquarius
(January 20-February 18)
Your aura’s been looking pretty muddy lately. 
Why don’t you take a shower for God’s sake? 
Momo begs you\ _ : ‘
Smoking will give; you cancer 
So don’t smoke you dork 
Don’t sniff any glue either.
Why don’t you have a girlfriend?
Listen to Momo
Don’t pick your nose in public.
New Music
ume94, Is29,2 0, ,sta rm2 n9@m0@9
Album Title: Bloodflowers 
Artist: The Cure 
Label: Elektra
líWViínj
out of five stars
| by Andy Francis
! Senior Staffwriter \ iI Even after thirteen albums’ worth of 
' therapy, The Cure’s frontman, Robert 
| Smith, still hasn’t managed to cheer 
! up. Although the occasional Cure tune 
j (like 1992’s “Friday I’m in Love”) has 
| shown signs of optimism, most of their 
¡work has been sad and downcast, a 
j trend which continues on their latest 
j release, Bloodflowers. Fortunately, 
! though, the band’s slow, atmospheric 
> melodies complement Smith’s 
j thoughtful lyrics welj enough to make 
| Bloodflowers a much more pleasurable 
j experience than the title (or the scary- 
; movie picture of Smith on the cover)
; might lead the listener to believe.
Although Bloodflowers’ nine tracks 
clock in at close to sixty minutes, the 
songs don’t feel long and drawn out, 
even the stellar eleven-minute-plus 
opus “Watching Me Fall.” Rather, the 
songs take their time to build them­
selves up, piling on drums, echoing 
guitars, wandering keyboards, more 
guitars, and finally Smith’s voice until,
lo and behold, you’ve got a Cure song. 
The album’s highlights, like “Out of 
This World” and “39,” exemplify this 
approach to songwriting, coming close 
to dissolving into simple noise, yet 
never losing their melody or their beat.
A listen straight through the disc 
reveals a lyrical trend; Smith first 
yearns to escape from the world (“Out 
of This World”), tries his hand at love 
(“The Last Day of Summer”) then 
decides that both ideas are just making 
things worse (“Bloodflowers”). Instead 
of sounding annoying or perhaps over­
ly depressing, the songs on Bloodflowers sound genuine and vul­
nerable, with an emotional quality 
most rock bands today would shy away 
from. At times, the middle of the 
album sounds a bit soggy, but The Cure 
know better than to let the entire 
album become tedious.
It’s hard to expect something really 
compelling from the Cure, now in their 
fourth decade of existence, but Bloodflowers is nonetheless a very solid 
record, certain to delight Cure fans and 
impress those not so familiar with the 
band (like myself). This certainly isn’t 
the record you want to spin at that big 
get-together you’re planning this 
weekend, but for such a dense, moody 
rock record, Bloodflowers still sounds a 
lot like pop to me.
dw,2w@ .wc, MIsm@2, h9e,s20I02H
Album Title: Encore!
Artist: Keith Lockhart and the Boston 
Pops Orchestra 
Label: RCA Victor_______________
out of five stars
by Greg NofiEntertainment Editor
In 1995, Carnegie Mellon School of 
Music alumnus Keith Lockhart had to 
fill some big shoes when he was chosen 
to be John Williams’s replacement as 
conductor of the legendary Boston 
Pops Orchestra, becoming only the 3rd 
conductor of the ensemble since 1930. 
Even more remarkable is that 
Lockhart was only 35. Now, five years 
later, Lockhart and the Boston Pops are 
already releasing a compilation album 
featuring some of their best music 
from their previous five releases, plus a 
bonus track of an Elvis Presley Medley.
As a compilation album, the disc 
showcases the wide variety of styles
that the orchestra can perform. Right 
off the bat, the album begins with a 
toe-tapping rendition of “American 
Patrol.” On this track, one has to listen 
carefully to realize that this isn’t just a 
regular, horn-heavy big band orches­
tra. The swingin’ rhythm is masterfully 
backed by a multitude of strings, giv­
ing it an almost waltz-like melody.
Several of the CD’s 11 pieces are 
rather ethnic, ranging from the Celtic 
“Magh Scola (The Level Plain)” to the 
Cajun “Mardi Gras.” The other Celtic 
piece, “Riverdance,” is perhaps the 
most dynamic track on the album. It 
starts out soft with some light percu­
sión. Then an electric fiddle kicks in, 
followed by the orchestra, which backs 
the fiddle in a film score-like manner. 
A synthesizer and guitar fill in during 
the rest of the song, providing an inter­
esting fusion of Celtic music with New 
Age and even funk.
The only new track on the album is 
“Long Live the King!”. As introduced by 
Lockhart, this is a live recording of the 
orchestra’s tribute to Elvis Presley that 
features “Jailhouse Rock,” “Can’t Help 
Falling in Love,” and “Hound Dog.” 
Even though the performance is solid, 
it’s sometimes hard not to picture a 
high school marching band while they 
play these American rock oldies. In 
addition, “Can’t Help Falling in Love” is 
somewhat tainted by the chorus. In 
fact, the major weakness of the album 
is that the choral portions of this track 
are not mixed well and give those 
songs a dated sound, like that of an old 
movie score.
But all in all, Encore! is a wonderful 
introduction to the incredibly diverse 
Boston Pops Orchestra.
Cheap Movies
(for cheap students)
movies you may have seen before
BY ANDY FRANCIS
Regret to Inform
Thursday, March 23
I know a lot of you are going to miss being depressed 
by CMU — nine days without classes could lead to 
maybe some optimism about things. Have no fear, 
though — Regret to Inform is here to save the day. A 
Vietnam War documentary that focuses on the women 
who were widowed by the war, this probably isn’t the 
best movie to go to with that chick you’re trying to 
hook up with.
Where do they show documentaries? How do these 
filmmakers ever make any money? Maybe my Ohioish 
upbringing has sheltered me from cultural things like 
documentaries and operas that one might find in, say, 
New York City or Butte, Montana. It’s also probably 
the reason why I wrote the word “Butte” in the previ­
ous sentence. Nevertheless, I don’t have any idea 
where I could go to see a documentary, if I had the 
inclination to, with the possible exception of 
McConomy auditorium. Sure, they show X-rated 
movies about equally as often, but I can at least claim 
I went to see a documentary.
At 8 pm, 10 pm, and midnight
In McConomy Auditorium
Spring Break
Monday, March 27-Friday, March 31
Since there are no movies being shown here during 
Spring Break, create your own blurb by filling in the 
blanks. My effort is below — send me yours if you think 
it’s better.
Perhaps the first (pornographic) film of the year, 
Spring Break is the epic saga of one (WWF superstar) 
and his quest to waste 24 hours per day for nine con­
secutive days. His odyssey begins in (the womb) 
where he must escape the clutches of the evil 
(Pokemon) to return home to his friends and family.
After making his escape, our hero befriends a 
weary drifter named (O.J. Simpson), and the two 
come up with a surefire plan so they can both safely 
reach (the men’s room). However, the journey is not 
as simple as the two had planned. The dynamic duo 
must first fight their way through (syphilis), (Bob 
Saget), and (The Backstreet Boys). Eventually, they 
find haven in (Atlantis), where they befriend the 
local (taxidermist) and recover from their battles.
Unfortunately, problems arise when his girlfriend, 
(Tammy Faye Baker), is kidnapped by (Del the 
Funkee Homosapien) and held for a ransom of (goat 
cheese). The film’s stars must travel to (Panther 
Hollow Inn) and are nearly (marinated) before suc­
cessfully completing their daring escape.
With the end to their voyage in sight, the two pre­
pare for their greatest challenge yet — crossing the 
great (peanut butter sandwich). The adverse situa­
tion presents our protagonist with his toughest choice 
yet — will he choose (Super Mario Brothers) or (Nell 
Carter)? It’s up to you to find (out).
At (fill in the blank) am/pm
In (Everywhere you want to be)
Escape from New York
Sunday, April 2
Action heroes are getting pretty lame nowadays, 
which is why I’m glad that John Carpenter’s classic 
Escape from New York is being shown here. Snake 
Plissken (Kurt Russell), a convicted criminal, must res­
cue the President of the United States from New York, 
which, in the year 1997, is a maximum-security prison. 
(Escape is based on a true story). Snake, though, is not 
an especially nice guy. Snake does not like the 
President. Snake does not like being in prison. Snake 
does not like you, the person reading this column. 
And, most importantly, Snake is kinda tired of his 
ridiculous nickname (his real name is Barbara).
Escape from New York was shut out at the 1981 
Academy Awards, although I fail to see how there was 
a better screenplay, given this exchange between 
Snake and the guy who’s overseeing his mission:
Guy: “Plissken ... Plissken ... Plissken ... Plissken”
Snake:
Tell me that doesn’t make Chariots of Fire look pretty 
dumb.
At 8 pm, 10 pm, and midnight
In McConomy Auditorium

---------------------------------------------------

THE TARTAN • MARCH 20, 2000
The five colleges which make up the London Institute r 
Camberwell, Central Sainjt Martins,..^Chelsea,' London .
College of Fashion and London College or printing - 
offer the world's widest.- range' Of^'çdüçlefe'.|n art, 
design and communications. Their MA course programme
is second to none. It includes book arts, conservatior
... tBL_communication design, design studies, fashion, film, éM
fine art, graphics, industrial design, media; 
multimedia, scenography and textiles.
W¡ ¡i'"SMwAInterested? To find out more contact Rachel Hudson, 
65 Davies Street, London W1Y 2DA, United Kingdom.
tit!
Telephone: +44 20 7514 6130 Fax: +44 20 7514 6131 
e-mail: marcom@linst.ac.uk*web site: www.linst.ac.uk
MOVIES PREVIOUSLY REVIEWED THIS SEMESTER
The Cradle Will Rock Reviewed January 24“While not a perfect movie, this film is worth seeing. Director Tim Robbins provides the viewer with a stylistic, visually stimulating movie....I would especially recommend this movie to fans of period pieces."
— Thaddeus Billman, Staffwriter
The Boiler Room Reviewed February 21“Overall, this is a fairly average film.... Like many films, it had the potential to be a great motion picture, but settled for mediocrity instead. I would recommend it to people interested in an unusual tale about the inner workings of a corrupt brokerage firm, but would not rec­ommend it to someone who expects a fast-paced dramatic thriller.”
— Thaddeus Billman, Staffwriter
The Wonder Boys Reviewed February 28“This movie is very funny and reflected well on the atmosphereofCMU. I would especially recommend the film to anyone who likes to watch movies and point out all of the places they’ve been before.”
— Sara Stille, News Editor
Mission To Mars Reviewed March 13“This is a fun and enjoyable movie that comes up short in many ways. It suffers primarily from a poor script and inadequate transition between scenes. However, it remains worth a look."
— Thaddeus Billman, Staffwriter
Pitch Black Reviewed March 13“This movie is just what a formulaic science fiction movie should be: a thoroughly entertaining film that doesn’t try to be more than it is."
— Matt Brun, Special Projects Manager
GET INVOLVED!
Petitions for Senators, Treasurer, and President at the UC info desk 
Due with 25 signatures from your college by 
Fri. March 23 at 5pm
Julia Roberts shows off mind and body in new film
MOVIE REVIEW
by Asha Pathak
Business Manager
] Erin Brockovich, in plain words, 
couples a compelling story with 
strong acting and charming humor. 
You’ll get two hours of inspiration, 
two hours of Julia Roberts at her 
best, and two hours of a story that 
! will provoke you to relate to the lives 
[of a group of people who have sus- 
| tained many forms of deception.
The film, based on a true story, 
centers around the life of a single 
mother/ex-beauty queen, who sim­
ply wants to raise her children, find 
a job, and be respected. Brockovich, 
played by Roberts, endures what is 
commonly known as a “really bad 
day.” Actually, she endures a string 
of really bad days. Unemployed, out 
: of options, and bitingly defensive, a 
‘twist of fate results in her meeting 
¡and working for lawyer Ed Masry 
| (played by Albert Finney), who also \ knows how luck, or the lack thereof, 
can affect one’s character, 
j Brockovich, barely able to meet the 
1 responsibilities of her clerical job at 
Masry’s law firm, is one day handed 
a pro bono real estate case to file.
Her curiosity and innate smarts pro­
voke her to investigate the case fur­
ther. Brockovich is consequently led 
to a small town in the desert outside 
Los Angeles, where she discovers a 
group of people subjected to corpo­
rate lies and cover-ups, which have 
victimized hundreds of innocent 
people. The result is Brockovich’s 
valiant fight for the victims while 
she proves herself to those around 
her.
Watching Brockovich become 
more familiar with the investigating 
process is reminiscent of Roberts’s Pelican Brief days. Perhaps it is all of 
this investigating, coupled with 
scenes that are just a bit too long, 
that make the movie drag at times. 
But Brockovich’s witty character and 
her energetic interactions with 
Masry add spunk to the movie. 
Finney and Roberts establish a cohe­
sive constant that serves as a back­
bone around which the movie 
revolves; the importance of this rela­
tionship emerges as Brockovich’s job 
at Masry’s law firm gradually con­
sumes her energy. A viable conflict 
thus emerges as she struggles 
between raising her children as a
single mother and simulta­
neously gathering enough 
evidence to present a case 
against a multi-billion dol­
lar corporation on behalf of 
400 plaintiffs. It is the co­
dependence of Roberts and 
Finney that contributes to 
the motion of the film’s sto­
ryline.
As expected, the true 
jewel of Erin Brockovich is 
Roberts’s charm, charisma, 
and the panache with 
which she wears that oh- 
so-racy wardrobe. Initially 
it is this wardrobe that 
attracts attention, but as 
the film progresses and 
Brockovich’s strength of 
character and rough 
smarts become more 
apparent, the focus shifts 
from what she is wearing 
to the sheer force of her determina­
tion and the admirable progress she 
makes for herself and for others. 
Though Brockovich has many vul­
nerable moments, Roberts is capti­
vating. Her presence onscreen 
reaches out while at the same time
Julia Roberts uncovers a scandal while working 
as a clerk in a law office in Erin Brockovich.
avoiding the tendency to overpower 
her costars. The result is a balanced 
cast and realistic energy.
Despite a tendency to lag, Erin Brockovich is worth seeing. Don’t 
miss a fiesty Julia Roberts with a 
mission.

---------------------------------------------------

Bats and Changes !
I
f you have been wondering about Funky the Bat then 
you’re not alone. Funky has been going through some 
changes in the past few weeks and it seems the excitement 
is growing. In addition, this issue marks the return of 
Over the Hedge and Robotman. Comic fans, don’t worry, 
The Harder They Are The Farder They Chew will return 
very shortly from the land of Swiss Miss and neutrality.
Dilbert
by Scott Adams
MY IDEA IS TO 
CHANGE OUR 
DEPARTMENT NAME 
FROM ENGINEER­
ING TO. .
I'M WORKING ON 
A SIMILAR IDEA 
FOR MARKETING
BUT ITS NOT_____
DONE YET.
... SO MY HEAD 
SWELLED UP LIKE 
A BEACH BALL AND 
THE I.R.S. WANTS 
A TO PUT ME IN
K risyC
IN SUMMARY 
YOU'RE A 
BASKET CASE
WOMEN HATE 
IT WHEN YOU 
SUMMARIZE.
OR SHOULD I 
MODIFY MY 
CONCEPTUAL MAP 
TO FOCUS ON 
ORGANIZATIONAL 
COMPLEXITY? r~
SHOULD I BE TRYING 
TO DISCOVER A 
SHARED VISION 
THAT WILL FOSTER 
^ENROLLMENT
RATHER THAN 
COMPLIANCE?
IS ANY OF THAT 
THE SAME AS 
WORK?
IT PAYS
THE SAME
I TOOK 
IT./
I HIRED A 
PSYCHOLOGIST 
TO HELP YOU 
HANDLE STRESS.
IS
THERE 
A PILL 
FOR 
THAT?1—
f WE NEED ANOTHER^ 
ENGINEER, NOT 
SOME FREAKIN' 
QUACK!!
I PERFORMED MANY 
TASKS, BUT I CAN 
NOT CLAIM ANY 
ACCOMPLISHMENTS.
BECAUSE THINGS' 
MIGHT HAVE 
TURNED OUT 
BETTER HAD I 
NEVER BEEN 
^ BORN.
NON SEQUITLIRby WILEYby WILEY
TELU
QCOAJCNE
TU& WfcW BE 
t\ GPOP TIME TO 
CteCUM. TU& FfeéÉ.IBILrt'f of 
INSTITUTING, k 
PEE4S Co(7& FÜR 
TUEÆ ÉM610N&.
i . eu^c
? 5-1 b iNlLE'fertOH-MOjrWP.HeT
NON SEQUITURby WILEYby WILEY
WUW 4CM5E4. 
(AtfAPST ifeTWCT 
THE QGM l£> 
KCTUNLLY 
NECEAWSS...
I -Uff-- STM4D 
CPRRECTER 
KPPKREHTLY 
\ DO WkNT TD 
BE éURRsUNPED & XE6-W1ER,
? 3-/7 WlLtySMCH-iCaaTUR.KET5-/V v<IL£Vewoi4-SCQUl-njP.t*ET
NON SEQUITURby WILEY
BEWHD 
TPs WU\
cu 4PM poCToR..
...KNP, 
IRoNlCM-LY, 
IT'4. NON- 
PENOKM- 
NWIONJVU.
5-Id VUU'/OMOM -S€®XTde.(A<rT
I

---------------------------------------------------

THE TARTAN • MARCH 20, 2000Lu
byJosephSenger
The Phatmaster
http://phat.res.cmu.edu/phatmaster/
j.i Volulm c sw
Oh look, a door I found 
behind a filing cabinet. THE 
better go inside because my pointless, menial existence could not get any worse.
Turned out to be a portal of some 
sort into the brain of some chick 
who liked reading nasty-smelling 
magazines that include the word "SEX" somewhere on the cover and depict some woman pulling at her 
clothing.
But of course, right when she 
was getting ready to take a 
shower, the inevitable 
happened.
Robotman
JsieÄ
by Jim Meddick
CHECK ÌT0UT..I ®T A VIBRATING
(mssa.se chair bop only bJ 
SUCkS! (SOOPBTE BACKACHES, 
hello rap, pemetrating 
RELAXATION ! ~
IF IT TOWT WCfiK,
ÏLL JUST BEWRM IT. J 
*
ymP?LL\16S& \\\Vt! 
^NMVlPPpLVSSfi IIiTtt1 
—'
Uft.I'to m SURE m BE ABUEÌ 
TO RETURN IT ...IT'S NWSSIMG 
T^ONEOFTHE CUSHIONS, -f
WEEBs \ HE'S 0« VACATO 1M HIS TO.W?/ ftSSISTAHCW WTWCI&/. A MAX BENEy/TOCHIROPSiOT. 
1 NIEWCIHE, BW I'VE REA!) Ali­
ne MtohiMS
OK-.LETS SEE ...WE NEW TO RE-M.I6I 
your THopAcic yswems. m
ROTATE YOUR-UttPH/.W«! YOU ARE 
STIFF/UMPH.1 COMEOW,DAWS IT/ / 
______J
restU hscyelnfdepoVePptD
TWINS FAVOR ANt> NUD6E |W 
! CWPKfcty SCAPULA 8ACK INTO 
BtfT I L ITS SOCKET.
'foU'BE SCUM , I THlWK A U0N6 m BStVt 15 
HAVE TO W I THE 0ULY WAY I'M SOMMA 
t<\E INTO Ttt& LCsßSEN UP AWt> SET 0\JER im 
. TUB... V VTWS BACKACHE- V I-i
cr
ttMVWUHHl SASPl SHORKEL! I'fft 
SOHNA NSW A,
, STOKEU UUHHH
f OK! OK ¦
IIA 6ETTINS
DrlematAUb
lELDRITGHt#5C?)
7\hH, k-ixi. hoAeA ycw ieAm ahh.1'
To &LORY M Trie SPOILS OF GREN
to batm6 in the guop orme. 
SlAUûHTïRfO IS (SMATERTWAH J 
AU- other EKteSTEJ-; \y
http://monkeys.res.emu.edu/funkmaster
Dead Post-dead
The bible has it all wrong. As entropy increases, energy (e) sinks but never fully 
reaches zero. Instead, it is cycled in this equation:
Or, just possibly,I'm talking out of my ass again
dXCR2’ l
Over the Hedge’ jd
bu Michael Fru & T. Lewisby Michael Fry & T. Lewis
NO, NO...I WAS WRONG... THIS IS 
WHERE WE BELONG/ 
IT’S NOT WS 
FAULT/ HE WAS 
JUST DEFENDING 
OUR HOME/
NOW LOOK WHAT 
YOU’VE DONE/ 
'YOU’VE GONE AND MADE RJ BE 
MATURE/.., 
SHAME/ SHAME i OH YOU/
"RULE Medm 
PARAGRAPH 7.. ALL WILDLIFE WILL BE 
RESTRICTED TO THE 
MATURE REFUGE..:
YOU WERE RIGHT VERNE, WE P0 BELONG 
IN THE WILD/
DON'T BLAME 
THEM, VERNE... 
DENIAL WASN'T 
GOING TO WORK FOREVER.
WHAT'S HAPPENED TO OUR CUSHY SUBURB?/.
RJ/
UHCLEVERNE/
YOU'RE IN MY FACE/
YOU'RE 
IN MY 
SPACE'
PLUSHIE/
I'M STANDING 
ON SOMEBODY'S /¡fin TAIL. 
TO' THAT’S / / 7 NOT MY 111-' TAIL.
NO...THEY'RE
RIGHT...
it ismFAULT.
• NATURE REFUGE?
> 2000 Untied Featwo Syndicale,
GIVE UP? GIVE UP?/ DID SCOOBY-DOO "GIVE UP' WHEN SHAGGY WAS KIDNAPPED BY 
THE SAME ONE-ARMED GHOST PIRATE IN SHOW AFTER SHOW 
AFTER SHOW AFTERSHOUT/
D uR wRCM
CONCRETE ANNOYING
dDmvK kmDrr7AKU» ÇTAlNÇ.
HONEY, ITS 
JUST THAT THIS 
ISN’T THE KIND OF PLACE TO RAISE A CHILD 
ANYMORE.
...I DON'T 
THINK SOUAND NATE 
•N* NOREEN'S FOR SALE?/
/ WHAT / ABOUT
I CLARA?
DON’T WORRY 
ABOUT ME... 
YOU ALL GO ON WITHOUT 
ME.
ISN'T HAPPINESS 
SUPPOSED TO BE GUARANTEED IN A 
MASTER-PLANKED 
COMMUNITY? .
YOU'LL 
BE MUCH 
HAPPIER AT OUR NEW HOME.
BUT WHAT ARE YOU 
GOING TO 
DO?
FIGHT?/... 
THISPEQUOD 
GUY MAKES 
STONE COLD 
STEVE AUSTIN LOOK LIKE A 
TWWKIE/ GIVE IT UP/
iir,„ ...THAT WASHE S THE SAME ONE-
RIGHT/ ARMED GHOST J
, PIRATE IN I\ EVERY SHOW/ INO...IT'S A BUILDER'S OPTION. ,
I...DON'T...
THINK...'SO/..,.I
...DID MISTER 
PEABODY AND SHERMAN SURRENDER 
THEIR WAY-BACK MACHINE-TO GENGHIS 
KHAN SO HE COULD COME BACK TO THE 
FUTURE AND PILLAGE 
BAKERSFIELD?/
...DID JOS IE AND THE 
PUSSYCATS SURRENDER 
TO THE POWERS IN THE 
MUSIC INDUSTRY THAT 
WOULD COMPROMISE THEIR SIGNATURE SINGING STYLE?/...
YOU HAD TO PUSH Am 
PUSHAHO PUSH UNTIL IT ALL BLEW 
E UP IN OUR o FACE/
WU I,ISO,
WHAT CHANCE 
DO WE HAVE HEY/. AGAINST 
PEQUOD?
NO MORE 
CABLE PIRACY., 
NO MORE TWINKIE RAIPS. 
NO MORE 
BOBBING FOR SPAM/
THIS IS AU YOUR FAULT/!IPON'T 
THINK SOU
RJ/ VERNE/ 
THEY'RE BACK/GOOP LORD, MAN, YOU‘VE 
UPSET THE BALANCE OF 
NATURE!!WHAT?I MUST 
HAVE 
MISSED 
THAT EPISODE.
QUIET/ 
HE'S ON 
A ROLL.WHAT?

---------------------------------------------------

Calendar
20 March 2000THE TARTANPage L12
The Plav-At-Home Academy Awards Game
INTRODUCTION: You anticipated it, waited for it, and even scrapped Spring Break plans for it. But your invitation to the 72nd Academy 
Awards Ceremony hasn’t arrived in the mail yet. If you haven’t gotten it by now, you probably won’t ever receive one. Nevertheless, everyone 
is welcome to take part in the Play-At-Home Academy Awards Game!
OBJECTS NEEDED FOR PLAY: 1 Play-At-Home Academy Awards Game scorecard, 1 television (not included), 1 pair of scissors, and 1 pen or 
pencil (not included)
SETTING UP: Cut out scorecard, remove pen cap or sharpen pencil, and place a check (V) in the appropriate choice on the scorecard, one for 
each category. Please do not fill it out after the awards ceremony or you will go directly to jail without passing Go or collecting $200.
PLAYING DIRECTIONS: Watch the ceremony on Sunday, March 26 at 8 pm on ABC, and see if you guessed correctly. If you get every­
thing correct, you can brag about it to your friends when they come back from their respective Spring Break vacations in warmer climates. 
And the nominees are...
BEST PICTURE
_ American Beauty _ The Cider House Rules _ The Green Mile _ The Insider 
_ The Sixth Sense
ACTOR IN LEADING ROLE
___Russell Crowe
___Richard Farnsworth
___Sean Penn
___Kevin Spacey
___Denzel Washington
ACTOR IN SUPPORTING ROLE ACTRESS IN LEADING ROLE
_ Michael Caine 
_ Tom Cruise 
_ Michael Clarke Duncan 
_ Jude Law 
_ Haley Joel Osment
_ Annette Bening 
_ Janet McTeer 
_ Julianne Moore 
_ Meryl Streep 
_ Hilary Swank
ACTRESS IN SUPPORTING ROLE
___Toni Collette
___Angelina Jolie
___Catherine Keener
___Samantha Morton
___Chloe Sevigny
Alissa Taylor/Art Staff
BEST DIRECTING
___American Beauty
___Being John Malkovich
___The Cider House Rules
___The Insider
__The Sixth Sense
Msi.musicJUL..around
The next Open Mind Lecture is titled 
“Conflict Resolution: The Ethics of 
Differences, Disagreements, and Disputes” 
and will take place today at 4:30 pm in the 
Adamson Wing via Dartmouth Video 
Conference.
The Department of Electrical and 
Computer Engineering Seminar 
Series continues this Wednesday with Dr. 
Jim Rehg of Cambridge Research Lab, 
Compaq Computer Company. His talk is 
tided “Motion Capture From Movies.” It 
begins at 4 pm and will take place in 
Hamerschlag Hall 1112.
The next Center for African- 
American Urban Studies and the 
Economy (CAUSE) lecture will take 
place this Thursday from 4:30 to 6:30 pm 
in Baker Hall 255B. Evelynn Hammonds of 
the MIT Program in Science, Technology, 
and Society will present “Race and Gender 
in 19th Century American Medicine: A 
Case Study.” This lecture series is spon­
sored by the Department of History.
Award-winning author and CMU 
professor Hilary Masters makes his 
first Pittsburgh appearance to discuss and 
sign his newly-published essay collection, In Montaigne’s Tower; this Thursday at 7:30 
pm at Borders North. The store is located in 
the Northway Mall in the North Hills. The 
event is free and open to all. For more 
information, call (412) 635-7661.
John Nathan, author of Sony: The Private Life and professor of Japanese 
Cultural Studies at the University of Santa 
Barbara, gives an insider’s tour of the 
entertainment and electronics giant Sony 
Corporation on Wednesday, March 29 at 
7:30 pm at Borders North. The store is 
located in the Northway Mall in the North 
Hills. The event is free and open to all. For 
more information, call (412) 635-7661.
The Environmental Institute 
Distinguished Lecture Series continues 
on Monday, April 1 with Dr. David Orr, 
Professor and Director of the Adam Joseph 
Lewis Center for Environmental Studies at 
Oberlin College. His talk is titled 
“Ecological Literacy” and will begin at 4:30 
pm in Baker Hall 136A.
Jane Goodall will be speaking on 
Tuesday, April 4 at 7:30 pm in the Wiegand 
Gym of the University Center. Tickets are 
$1 for students, faculty, and staff, and $5 
for everyone else. They go on sale today at 
the University Center Information Desk. 
This event is sponsored by AB Lectures and 
your Student Activités Fee.
Carnegie Mellon will host a panel 
discussion Thursday, April 6 with Chicago Tribune reporters Ken Armstrong 
and Steve Mills. They will discuss their 
November 1999 investigative series “The 
Failure of the Death Penalty in Illinois.” It 
will begin at 7:30 pm and take place in 
Doherty Hall 2210.
To celebrate National Poetry 
Month, readings from an anthology of 
young American poets will take place on 
Saturday, April 8 at the Barnes and Noble 
bookstore in Squirrel Hill. The reading is 
free and open to the public. For more infor­
mation, call (412) 268-3580.
Charles Dutoit returns to lead the 
Pittsburgh Symphony Orchestra in Sergei 
Prokofiev’s Fifth Symphony at Heinz Hall 
this Thursday at 10:45 am and Friday and 
Saturday at 8 pm. For ticket information, 
call (412) 392-4900 or order online at http://www.pittsburghsymphony.org.
Robbie Fulks will be performing this 
Thursday at Rosebud, located at 1650 
Smallman Street. Showtime is 7:30 pm.
Matthew Sweet will be playing this 
Wednesday at Metropol. Doors open at 7 
pm and the show starts at 8 pm. Tickets are 
$15 in advance and $17 at the door.
Reel Big Fish will be performing at 
Metropol this Thursday at 7 pm with Catch
22 and Edna’s Goldfish. Tickets are $13 in 
advance and $15 at the door.
The Pittsburgh Chamber Music 
Society presents the Takas Quartet on 
Monday, March 27 at 8 pm at the Carnegie 
Music Hall in Oakland. Tickets are $30 and 
$15 for students. For more information or 
to purchase tickets, call (412) 624-4129.
John Paul Jones of Led Zeppelin will 
be performing on Monday, March 27 at 
Metropol. Doors open at 7 pm and show­
time is 8 pm. Tickets are $18 in advance 
and $20 at the door.
The music of Pierre Boulez and 
Elliott Carter will be premiered during a 
three-hour marathon in A Day of New Music 
on Wednesday, March 29 at 7 pm in Heinz 
Hall. Tickets are $2 and available by phone 
at (412) 392-4900.
Tony Bennett will join the Pittsburgh 
Symphony Orchestra for a concert on 
Saturday, April 1 at 8 pm in Heinz Hall. 
Tickets are available by phone at (412) 
392-4900 from the Heinz Hall Box Office, 
available online at http://www.pittsburgh- symphony.org. Ticket prices are $80, $70, 
$50, and $30.
The University of Pittsburgh Music 
Department will sponsor a choral concert 
on Sunday, April 2 at 7 pm, featuring the 
Woman’s Choral Ensemble directed by 
Loraine Milovac. The concert takes place in 
the Frick Fine Arts Auditorium. For more 
information, call (412) 624-4125.
The Spring Honors Recital on
Tuesday, April 4 at 8 pm in the Frick Fine 
Arts Auditorium in Oakland, will present 
outstanding students from the University 
of Pittsburgh Department of Music. 
Admission is free.
Urban folk rock singer David Broza
will perform on Tuesday, April 4 at 8 pm at 
the Katz Theater in the Squirrel Hill Jewish 
Community Center. Tickets are $20 for 
adults, and $10 for students and seniors. 
Call (412) 681-8000 for more information 
and details.
The First Presbyterian Church of 
Edgewood will host a free piano and vio­
lin music recital, performed by pianist 
Sunny Sakai and violinist Ellen-Maria 
Willis. The concert takes place on Saturday, 
April 8 in the sanctuary of the church, 
which is located at 120 East Swissvale 
Avenue.
Seventeen panels of the AIDS quilt
will be on display starting with the unfold­
ing ceremony today at 4:30 pm and runs 
until this Wednesday in the University 
Center Gym. On Wednesday, Joel Goldman 
will speak about contracting AIDS in “Sex 
Under The Influence” in Rangos Ballroom at
7 pm.
The first on-campus concert of the 
Carnegie Mellon Pipes and Drums will 
take place tonight for free at 6 pm in 
McConomy Auditorium. The evening will 
feature performances by the full band and 
solos from Jimmy McIntosh and bagpipe 
majors Alasdair Gillies and Lyric Todkill.
An art exhibit by Steph Toth and Debbie 
Houben entitled “Biotraces: Paintings,
Prints, Video, Sculpture, and Installations” 
will open this Friday at The Frame, located 
at 5200 Forbes Avenue. For more informa­
tion, call (412) 268-2081. This show was 
made possible in part by a Carnegie Mellon 
SURG grant.
Petitions for Student Senators,
Student Body President, and Student Body 
Treasurer are available at the UC info desk. 
They are due Friday at 5 pm at the Info Desk 
in Student Senate mailbox #46.
Bob Frederking will call and Rich 
Moore’s Band du Jour will play for square 
and contra dances on April 6 in Thisde Hall 
of Old Skibo Gym from 6:30 to 9:30 pm. 
Admission is $3 for students, $6 for every­
one else.
The School of Drama presents A Little Night Music by Stephen Sondheim on March
21 through 25 and April 5 through 8 in the 
Philip Chosky Theatre in the Purnell Center 
for the Arts. Performances of A Little Night Music begin at 8 pm. A matinee is scheduled 
for March 25 and April 8 at 2 pm. For more 
information, contact the Drama box office at 
(412) 268-2407.
The Regina Gouger Miller Gallery in
the Purnell Center for the Arts is celebrating 
its inaugural season with three installations 
through April 14. The Miller gallery is open 
Tuesday to Sunday from 11:30 am to 5 pm.
A prison justice meeting will take 
place this Tuesday at 7 pm at the Church of 
the Ascension in Oakland, located at 4729 
Ellsworth Avenue.
The International Poetry Forum will 
host a “Turn-of-the-Century Impromptu” 
benefit this Friday at 8 pm in the Carnegie 
Music Hall in Oakland. Actors James Earl 
Jones, Brooke Shields, and David Conrad 
will be present to read selections from a 
variety of poets. Tickets may be purchased 
over the phone by calling (412) 621-9893.
The Pittsburgh Chapter of the U.S. 
Amateur Ballroom Dancers 
Association is holding a Spring Dance this 
Saturday at St. Elizabeth Hall, located at 
1620 Penn Avenue in the Strip District. 
Doors open at 6:30 pm. The cost will be $6 
for members and $9 for non-members. For 
further information, call (724) 586-6158.
museums
The La Fond Galleries is holding an 
opening reception for Norman Brown’s 
“New Work 2000” on Friday, March 24 at 6 
pm at the gallery, located at 1711 East 
Carson Street. For more information, call 
(412) 431-3337.
The Clay Place Gallery is currendy dis­
playing an exhibit tided “Close Encounters” 
by Pittsburgh sculptor Judi Charlson. The 
exhibit runs through March 29 at the 
gallery, which is located at 5416 Walnut 
Street in Shadyside. For more information, 
call (412) 682-3737.
First Person Singular, a juried exhibi­
tion at the Pittsburgh Center for the Arts by 
its guild members, will continue to run until 
April 23. Call (724) 327-2549 for more 
information.
The Andy Warhol Museum is current­
ly exhibiting “Andy Warhol Drawings 
1942-1987.” The exhibit runs through April 
30 and is located on 117 Sandusky Street. 
For more information, call (412) 237-8300 
or visit http://www.warhol.org.
voxpopuli
official voice of O-S-C-A-R 
A toast to the ECE ClusterI
Wonton, 
...only the hairs from the 
belly of a yak 
-ChowfunYour tomato is MIA!
Ding Mae Bao, Ju zhi shni. Wonton, 
Can we go to Poli's?
— His jiggling is mesmerizing!
— Yes, it's like a lava lamp!
Udder Galore, 
Beware of the evil agents of B.E.E.F. 
-Mule. Pack Mule
RIP 
Mr. Smiley-Frowny Balloon 
1999-2000
Malkovich
Malkovich
Malkovich
pooka — the cheme mascot dog
68’s gonna rock the house, Vail!
POOBER!
¿Que hacemos con la vaca muerta?
Chapter 6: Esqueala wondered whether she might be able to get an orifice through medical means. So she located a veterinary plastic surgeon and asked: “Do you do elective orifice surgery on pigs'?” “Why, yes,” said the doctor, “if your HMO covers it.” But, unfortunately for Esqueala, she had no health insurance whatsoever and thus was thwarted her, too in her search for orifices.
Vox Populi is a forum open to the entire campus community! To 
submit a vox, simply email it to tartan@andrew.cmu.edu, send it 
to The Tartan, University Center, Box 17 via campus mail, or drop 
it in the Vox Populi drop box on the slick-looking Tartan server. 
The comments in this box do not reflect the views of The Tartan 
or anybody in general. It Is basically a bunch of gibberish, and if 
anything sounds remotely real or interesting, then you're reading 
way too much into it
I¡

---------------------------------------------------



---------------------------------------------------

sdo&Us&U
MARCH 20, 2000 • VOLUME 20, ISSUE 6: SEX

---------------------------------------------------



---------------------------------------------------

hN.RE l2EpHGT2 is a sophomore History and Policy major interested 
in finding himself through everyday things and experiences with people who 
fill their lives with wonderment too. He enjoys reading, writing, arguing, 
drinking beers at all the Oakland dives with his best friend and Mongolian 
mud basket weaving.
eyR«& MHpp2 writes poetry like most people walk out of the shower. She 
is a Creative Writing major and has never had a corn dog bought for her. 
Unpublished aside from amateur high school newspaper, she is thrilled that 
Dossier chooses to be graced with her presence.
1HNE& S bp2,R2G
Turn-ons: good smile, nice skin, sense of humor, (but everything looks 
good when I’m drunk). Turn-offs: poor dental hygiene, bad haircuts, ugly 
people. My idea of the perfect date starts with a virgin credit card and ends 
with me naked and unconscious with the cast of Friends.
vNUU vTTHp is a senior Creative Writing major. Currently, he is . 
marketing a line of anatomically exaggerated Sigfried and Roy dolls as novelty 
gifts for children's birthday parties.
dN(HR2N dyN«« is a sophomore English and Creative Writing Major. She 
enjoys long walks on the beach, candlelit dinners, and dreams of owning a 
small black poodle one day.
dN««& dUp0NHUP a junior Creative Writing major, is a part-time student 
and full time staff member at Carnegie Mellon. She is a member of the 
Pittsburgh Poetry Exchange. This is her first published piece. She hopes it 
was good for you too.
bTp fN«pHRP whose poem in this issue is the focus of his manuscript, 
describes himself as one sexy motherfucker.

---------------------------------------------------

PITTSBURGH, 4 TIMES, REAL REAL SHORT
by Anne Ray
#2
Packaging
A woman named Ivy takes us out onto the warehouse floor. I am 
walking through the Greater Pittsburgh Community Food Bank with 
a group from the Duquesne Family Support Center—or something 
like that. Ivy rattles off the title of their group incorrectly several 
times, and the women correct her. These women are all older than 
I am, with jean jackets and big hair-dos, and these earnest, stoic 
faces as they nod at the facts Ivy tells us. We are all here on a tour 
of the Food Bank—we are the providers, the donors. They’re here to 
learn how they can best dole out the food that comes to their
Carol says, "I don't know, I just love it. I love everybody here. 
This is my home."
Tim nods and smiles so wide I think the corners of his 
cheeks might burst. "Everybody real nice," he says.
We walk away and they go back to packing boxes full of cereal. 
I think of all the material here: boxes, tape, labels, all those cans, 
bottles, trash cans. Containers. Outside these volunteers look like 
adults. They act vaguely like children. In my head, I start to kick 
myself for thinking it. They are not children, and I feel judgmental.
On the wall, I see a whiteboard with a message written on it:
Absolutely positively 
no meat products 
Throw away for 
the Kruncher
"Kruncher," with a K. What is this? We move through the 
warehouse and Ivy takes us to it.
The Kruncher is a machine that processes all the expired, 
dented, and entirely unusable can. We stand near it, on a platform 
near the loading docks. A stench that smells roughly like a tray of 
lunchmeat left on a picnic table on a hot day seems to exude from 
the machine, made of brushed steel. It looks like a miniature ver­
sion of a food processor with the word Kruncher printed on the 
side. Ivy tells us what it does—dump all the cans inside, the 
machines opens the cans, pulverizes the slop inside, and spits it 
out a tube into a set of white plastic barrels that line the platform. 
Then, the "goop" as they call it, is sent to a hog farmer, who repays 
them for feeding his animals with donated ham.
Damn impressive. Recycling at its best, I think. The cans, 
she shows us, are turned into 15 lb. blocks of metal. I am amazed. 
The ladies I'm with hold their noses.
Later, Ivy tells me more about the “special needs" volunteers. 
They don't complain, they work real hard, and they love it, she tells 
me. For a moment, I feel a bit guilty, that awful suburban-liberal- 
opulent guilt - because my hair is clean, my skin is soft, I buy my 
own clothes, and I drove myself here.
But then she touches me on the collar with the palm of her
hand.
She says. "It’s all about packaging. It doesn't matter if the 
package is pretty or not."
She buys me a soda from the volunteer lounge. We crush our 
cans as small as we can make them, deposit them in the bins for 
the Kruncher.
Center from this warehouse. I'm here on some as-of-yet direction­
less historical project thing. Ivy introduces me as "Anne from Pitt." I 
smile and nod .as the women glance my way.
On the floor of the cavernous warehouse, we stand on pol­
ished concrete as Ivy, a short, self-professed Italian woman with a 
pen and a name badge, swings her arm to direct our attention. She 
describes what we stare at: four stories of steel shelves, packed 
with boxes. Nearly 11 million pounds of food, Ivy says. We gasp. 
Several groups of people stand clustered around tables set up on 
the floor in ordered rows. These are volunteers, Ivy tells us, re­
packing and inspecting food, making labels.
They seem to be moving slowly as they work. Ivy tells us that 
one of the goals of the Food Bank is to allow every volunteer to 
have a positive experience. Fully half of the volunteers who come, 
she says, are challenged in some way. We all answer with a soft 
Ohhhhh.
We move further along into the warehouse. Ivy points to an 
endless line of shopping carts along one edge of the shelving units, 
each cart filled to the edges with cans, every one of them dented. 
Most of the food is reclaimed from Giant Eagle grocery stores from 
as far away as West Virginia. The stores ship all their "damaged" 
goods to the Food Bank, and volunteers inspect and re-pack every­
thing. Here, it's not "damaged," it’s "product." If it weren't for the 
Food Bank, all 11 million pounds of it would be “trash."
Ivy quietly points us in the direction of a young man wearing 
orange who packs boxes full of cans by himself.
"We're trying to keep him in school," she says.
Then we meet Carol and Tim, volunteers who come from 
some assisted-living facility. Tim can't be too much older than I am, 
and his mile-wide grin shows a set of crooked teeth. Carol has gray 
buzz-cut hair and keeps her hands in the pockets of her jeans. Tim 
says "Hi!" as Ivy introduces us, and Carol nods and says, "Ma'am."
Ivy says we can ask them some questions. I say, “Why do 
you like coming to the Food Bank?"

---------------------------------------------------

CADDS-E
March 20, 2000 ¦ Volume 20, Issue 6: Sex
Did you blush when you saw the title? Did you tear through the 
Tartan stripping away the layers of newsprint to spread open this week’s 
Dossier? Or were you angry at it, claiming that the concept was degrad­
ing and played on the pressures of today’s society? We are pleased you 
felt that way.
The college mind finds itself somewhat at home when discussing sex 
since we are surrounded by it everyday. Twenty-somethings are con­
stantly faced with the pressures and concerns surrounding isGu and 
safe sex. We are living in an age when men and women in Washington 
have tried to make laws that tell us how and when we can do it. The 
Internet and video porn industries are huge. There is a strong fight for 
complete gender equality and most of us take sides on whether women 
have the choice or not to abort babies. Sex is everywhere; it has left the 
boundaries of the bedroom and looks us all in the face with more vigi­
lance than ever before. It is now amongst the pages of our weekly school 
paper too, go figure. We recommend writing about sex as the best possi­
ble way to protect yourself, if not from rampant uhGuC but from pure, 
unadulterated insanity.
The submissions we received for this issue were outstanding. We were 
flooded with an array of pieces and the readers were very selective in 
what they chose. We looked for writing that did more than just dapple in 
the pure eroticism of sex, but touched on the cultural and emotional 
implications of the theme as well. People are very passionate about sex, 
and rightfully so, it is a wonderful topic to write about because there are 
so many directions it can take. Simple to intricately complex, or just 
symbolically naked, the pieces put into this issue represent the varied 
ways of exploring sex. The designers also took this eclectic approach and 
ended up producing a pretty sexy looking issue themselves. The power of 
image and words intermingled with the theme of sex is just beautiful.
Our next issue is ckd!~ and we are offering a $50 prize (yeah, we’re 
talkin’ about the benjamins here!) for the best submission. So get up and 
as fast as you can, send off your writing (poetry, fiction, non-fiction, 
screenwriting, playwriting, etc. - any length, any subject) to Dossier!
And the final issue of the semester will be a Senior issue, so before you 
snag the diploma, try to leave one final mark in Dossier.
Now crank the cheesy 70’s porn music (bawm chick a baw baw) and 
let’s get it on.
-Laura, Joey and Mike
LITERARY EDITORS:
Joey Tague, Laura Martin
LITERARY STAFF:
Kristin Gilmore, Alina Mason, 
Jay Denat
DESIGN EDITOR: 
Michael Zimmer
DESIGN STAFF:
Daniel Kuo, Graham Hicks, 
Elizabeth Spiridakis, Brian Yeung, 
Greta Polo, Alberto Capolino, 
Hallie Fyrd, Jeff Beene, Chris 
Rügen, Julia Tseng, Betty Kim, 
Lee-Anne Stossell.
c3>:>
. V .
0. Untitled
Photograph by Anthony Chao
1. Going Home
Written by Emily Green, designed by Betty Kim
2. Sixteen Line Drawings
Written by Matt Moore, designed by Jeff Beene
3. Mature Recreation
Written by Brady S. Jenkins, designed by Julia Tseng
4. Incomplete
Written by David Anderson, designed by Graham Hicks
6. On Eating a Peach in 
the Middle of Winter
Written by Sally Stewart, designed by Chris Rugen
7. High School Boys
Written by Sabrina Small, designed by Lee-Anne Stossell
8. Untitled
Written by Joe Valeri, designed by Hallie Fyrd
10.Pittsburgh, 4 times, real, real short
Written by Anne Ray, designed by Alberto Capolino
Cover designed by Michael Zimmer, 
calligraphy by Myrna Rosen.
Submit to Dossier:
Next issue’s theme -bckd!~f There will be a S50 prize for the best # .
submission. Send any poetry/prose/etc. to Joey {jjt@andrew.cmu.edu} * ^¿4 *
or Laura {lmartin@andrew.crnu.edu} by Sunday, April 9. */ I
Submissions for the final issue of the year, the Senior issue, are due to #v‘ |
Joey or Laura by Sunday, April 23. • ¦
• x ‘
Interested designers should contact Mike [mzimmer@andrew.cmu.edu}. T

---------------------------------------------------



---------------------------------------------------

II The Poet ¡11 the GardennI Learning to Sin
I caught Adam's eye peeking 
around the trunk
of a massive tree, gripping the bark
with fingers that had never touched. 
The wind whispered secrets 
of my past, broken sex 
and unspoken love.
Knees bent, I lay on my back
in the grass-naked
and sunburned-masturbating
with the rhythm of the garden.
He came slowly from the tree-one foot 
in.front of the other. Did he want 
to touch me?
He watched my lips curl, 
saw my stained teeth, 
crooked and sharp.
He shielded his eye
from the wind and ran
his fingertips along his calf, up his thigh.
Eyes fixed on mine he caressed
his bellybutton-and knew not to touch, 
not to feel.
With jealousy I asked why he wept.
Tomorrow, he said, 1 cry always 
for tomorrow;
and my seed dripped 
to the soil.
Teach me how to sin,
Eve asked, and I slipped 
the straps of her dress 
down over her shoulders.
and unblemished, unmarked 
by wind, salt, or sun, and I touched
it slowly.
She was still, waiting 
for my voice, hoping for something
to know. You're a woman,
1 told her and unveiled her breast,
let the silk dress,
cool and damp in the shade,
about the mouths 
IVe kissed-how 1 used to suck on the bottom lip 
and hold cheeks in my palms.)
She learned good and evil
as 1 held her wrist,
pulled her foreign body close.
She touched my cheek 
as 1 saw her first smile.
There can't be love 
without hate, 
she said, wrinkling her brow, 
and caressed my lips.
Her dress fell,
a silk puddle in the grass,
and her legs were soft and cold.
Good and Evil, we yelled 
to the sky-Good and Evil 
we called to the birds and mountains- 
Good and Evil we whispered 
to the future.
Her breasts hung low 
as she gripped my hand; 
the wind covered our sex; 
Eve closed her eyes 
and sank beneath the dew.

---------------------------------------------------

&

---------------------------------------------------

1 PV1 ** 
»•‘•AV O
Going Home
My father picked me up from Western Psych
Monday. He wove
me through his descent
into alcoholism
on the drive from Pittsburgh
to Erie. I twisted
from him to Alex,
the last time he was inside
me. I unbraided
my memory to sensations:
sweat slicked between our abdomens
his hair falling sweet in my mouth
my hands massaging his skin Into me
the mold and scrape
of his teeth on my breasts. Warmth
sizzled through my pelvis
to my toes like the burn
of whisky shots.
5 miles from home 
my father scratched 
my face with the word whore 
because you can't make love 
before marriage, only fuck.
Emily Green

---------------------------------------------------

8EJmee4 VE4e LduCE4W0
Matt Moore
¦ 2 •
TTAI
GTCC
TTCG
GAGI
GCAG
GGAA
TTGA
CTGC
I saw you there. 
Your lips were swollen like those of boxers.
ii.
What a fragrance in your lungs. 
My eyes are blood-shot. 
The alarm is tuned to a radio station. 
You did not kiss me all night.
iii.
We all must cross streets. 
Some just do it better than others.
Eventually, try to stop 
waiting for signals.
iv.
Do you want me to moan louder? 
Yes, I want you to moan louder.
v.
The windows are old glass, and have run.
You raise my blind. 
See, no one is out there. 
I swear I heard machinery.
vi.
What a mess. 
I love to get it on your shirt. 
The room is heavier 
than a phone book.
vii.
The next morning, I had a scratch on my wrist.
Three stars make up Orion's belt.
viii.
Air gets cold. 
You spread grease on your mouth.
You talk of that and this. 
You are older than you were before.
ix.
Have you ever seen a pigeon missing toes?
I have.
They are the saddest goddamn 
creatures in the whole wide world.
x.
Days later, the dry saliva on my pillow 
still smells of your slit.
xi.
In this life,
there are two forms of repentance:
either drown in the ocean
or keep a pearl in the hollow of your ear.
xii.
Andromeda was handcuffed 
to a coast.
Heroes write their names in the snow.
Your hands are rough, as if scraped by coral.
xiii.
Like dogs, our hearts are fucking in the streets. 
Just leave them.
xiv.
I gave you white roses.
They died.
Their water is yellow 
and smells of cemeteries.
xv.
There must be a wall in this city 
made entirely of glass.
I would walk through miles of snow to see 
something like that.
xvi.
A black cat rubs against your leg.
If we kiss, love, you do not look at me.

---------------------------------------------------

You practically died 
the first time we kissed 
And that made me feel beautiful 
So I held on to you
h School Boys
Fifteen years and 145 pounds 
Weight that would never crush me 
Like the boys before
It was enough for two years
To hold hands in public like adults
With cars and issues and banal chores to complete
I try to feel like an adult now 
It helps to think you are still a child 
Wiping semen off of magazines 
While I've moved passed that 
To a boyfriend who can sleep 
in my room all night
He doesn't die when I kiss him
I don't think he knows how to feel that way anymore 
And his eyes are distracted
But I know once they burned themselves out like yours 
Sabrina Small
•7-

---------------------------------------------------

• 6 •
On Eating a Peach in the Middle of Winter
by Sally Stewart
Soft, fully ripe, you split it open. 
Fragrant juice pours out --. 
you daub it with your finger, press 
it behind each of my ears, between 
my breasts. I shiver,
January drafts dancing 
with the heat inside.

---------------------------------------------------

Mature Recreation
Cupped in the nest 
of a swing's saddle, 
you bend your arms and grasp 
each bracing rope.
You draw them back, 
use the ’tension to propel 
yourself forward.
I fix myself behind 
you, wait for your return 
so I can drive you further; 
you'll come 
with greater force.
At the nadir of your arch 
you strike your foot against dirt 
and your body twists.
The chords wrap 
around themselves and you meet 
me with extended legs, 
knock me down.
The lines unweave 
at the forward crest.
You jump -
leave the swing to wave 
in the dissolving push of air.

---------------------------------------------------



---------------------------------------------------

Drum be^ts-savagely pounding 
through my stomach rumbling 
and grinding with my hips 
moving in time to her 
djrections, moving me forward 
dancing to music, all the same.
I know but don't remember 
why I can’t say her name.
She sat in bac£ of last semester's 
early morning history workshop. 
Tonight she said hello 
as she feathered my hand. 
Streaming, steaming spermy fog -¦ 
permeates a hundred sweaty musks, 
Foot sliding on someone's spilt beer 
puddles of grainy urine coating 
my torn up shoes, drenching toes. 
Breathing her in, vanilla perfume 
splashed on her wheaty tresses 
dancing, exorcising daily stresses.
Later on, half case consumed 
legs limply harming over the couch 
with her head on my shoulder 
hard, soft, firm, cushibning bones. 
Mumblifig geopolitics mixed with Kant 
into her passive receptive ear. ,•>
Giggling like an eighth-grade boy ? 
hearing his first dirty joke 
as she tells me her mind.
Another shot, followed by a hit 
brought up, she beckons to leave.
I am a dog, tongue hanging 
lonely in the stale air, following 
the inside out swinging hips 
back and forth, she sways, 
leading /ne forward and away,
Three legs, two arms, two heads 
wobble, stumble, mumble 
back to her place, laughing 
out loud as 1 miss the pole.
I’m telling myself that’nothing will* happen 
I'-ll only hug her goodnight 
that I am really a decent guy.
Cold hands, chilled purple dive
• into her pocket, seeking the key 
to open her apartment door.
Her lips pull me in
grabbing my tongue, yin-yang exchange.
I can’t taste'her chemistry
coming through shared cigarettes
or the permeating linger of six cheap beers.
I don^t care as our clothes
become a fallen, clumpen bluf
rolling bodies, mixing sweat
on cold blue shag floor.
Tweety Bird chirps ^ime, alarm 
I awake in a near stranger's bed.
Jeans and t-shirt, slowly slide*back on 
Solid block rubbing against my leg 
remember my wallet, pull it out 
opening battered brown leather folds 
feeling carefully, fingers trembling 
as I find nothing beneath my license.
David Anderson
• 5 •
