S tartan
StartnM udg ueDm soFrCp Dm hrCbpn uy
this week
One Flew Over The Cuckoo’s Nest page 6 
CMU Athletics, Stuck In The Mud page 11 
Joni Mitchell and Neil Young page 9
Hunt Withholds Publication of Focus
by Kevin Turcotte 
Due to the presence of Newsweek re­
porters on campus, the December 4,1975 
issue of the Focus was withheld from dis­
tribution by Patrick Hunt, Director of 
Public Relations. The publication con­
tained an article concerned with ‘Func­
tional Illiteracy in CIT’ and cited exam­
ples of poor writing from papers by up­
perclassmen.
As a result of this action, a motion was 
passed in the December eleventh Facul­
ty Senate meeting barring prior restraint 
or censorship of any campus publication 
by any ‘functionary on this campus.’ 
David Demerest, the editor of Focus, 
had not been consulted by Hunt prior to 
or during the four day withholding. When 
he did find out about the delay, Demerest 
commented, ‘I was very disturbed, that’s 
why I took the issue to the (Focus) com­
mittee and to the (Faculty) Senate.’ 
As Hunt explained it, he was very con­
cerned about possible negative publicity 
for the University. ‘It could have been 
picked up nationally and could have pre­
sented the University as a group of engi­
neers and business students who have 
trouble communicating.’
H£gfel*»added, *C-MU is a very good 
school, very well respected by educators, 
but * lot of people don’t know a hell of a 
lot about it. The outside world has a 
lower esteem of Carnegie than the aca­
demic world does.’
‘What it was,’ Hunt said, Svas a case of 
being overprotective. Admittedly, one 
doesn’t want a graduate to have a hard 
time getting a job because athe employer 
remembers a story about C-MU students 
not being able to communicate. It’s not 
the faculty or the administrator who’s 
going to get hurt, it’s the graduate in 
June. The school image really helps or 
hurts the graduate when he’s out. It’s a 
tough time in June.’
Hunt did not regard his actions as a 
form of censorship, and added, ‘I don’t 
see it as a freedom of the press issue.’ 
Associate professor, Tom Kerr, head of 
AMS department commented, The first 
amendment of the U.S. Constitution pro­
vides that no governmental agency may 
censor or place any prior restraint on 
publication. C-MU is not a governmental 
agency, therefore the first amendment 
doesn’t apply. I personally believe and 
I think the administration of this Univer­
sity also believes tha we should practice
Mudge Demands 
More From SDC
An otherwise uneventful Student 
Dorm Council meeting of January 11, 
1976 was greatly enlivened by a request 
from a Mudge Graduate House resident 
that undergraduates living there should 
receive recreational facilities equivilent to 
to those in undergraduate dorms. Debbie 
Rosenkrantz asked for one of two op­
tions, (preferably, the second). The first 
was to reduce the four dollar dorm fee 
paid by all undergrads living in University 
housing, the second, give Mudge residents 
some facilities such as ping-pong paddles, 
conti nued on page 5
first amendment principles even though 
technically they don’t apply to us.’
Hunt claimed full responsibility for the 
incident and said, ‘It was a unilateral de­
cision.’ He also added that he never read 
the Focus prior to publication except in 
this one instance, when an unnamed 
source pointed out the article and men­
tioned that the Newsweek reporters 
might see it. When asked for further de­
tails of this source, Hunt replied, ‘It was a 
person, not in Warner Hall.’
The reason the Newsweek reporters 
were on campus was described by John 
Purcupile, an Associate Professor of 
Mechanical Engineering, as an explora­
tory look at C-MU to see if there was any 
material for a story about innovations in 
engineering education.
Hunt sees his main mistake in the fact 
that he didn’t talk to the Focus editor 
while he had the issue hidden. ‘The really
bad thing is that on Saturday or Sunday I 
should have called Demerest. If you’re 
looking for where I made a mistake, 
that’s it.’
When asked about his superiors reaction 
to this issue, Hunt said, ‘I don’t think it’s 
been viewed as a real threat to academic 
freedom or freedom of the press.’ 
Demerest explained his current views on 
the whole situation. ‘Up until this time, 
there’s never been any interference with 
the paper. This was kind of a minor and 
silly episode. I’m not real eager to make a 
big thing out of it.’
Hunt said, This was probobly a mis­
take. I apologize to the editor and all.’ 
Hunt did’t know whether the Newsweek 
reporters were still planning to do the 
story on C-MU, but added, ‘I hope the 
Tartan story doesn’t blow it.’
Hunt denied that this issue had anything 
to do with his recent resignation as direc­
tor of Public Relations.
Patrick Hunt, Director of Public Relations.
photo by Dave Meeker
CMU Crime Drops Thirty Percent
The month of December 1975cul- 
minated an eight-month period of stead­
ily declining campus criminal activity. 
Consequently, total incidents for the year 
were approximately 30 percent lower 
than 1974.
The Burglary&Theft category for
1975 shows the greatest decrease from 
the previous year. A total of 225 reported 
cases resulted in an approximate $12,400 
loss of University property and a $15,000 
loss of personal property. Approximate­
ly one-half of the personal property losses 
were processed as insurance claims. 1974 
losses from burglary and theft totalled 
$20,900 for University property and 
$24,500 for personal property.
Burglary & Theft constitutes 70 
percent of all campus criminal acrivity 
While the 225 reported cases for 1975 
were 30 percent lower than the previous 
year, Security feels that this figure should 
be considerably lower. Many incidents of 
theft would not have occured if basic
Extensive plans for remodeling theTartan Grill are in store for C-MU Students.
photo by Elliot Popowitz
Senate Approves Carnival Funds
by Paul Smith
Student Senate held their first 
meeting of the 1976 Spring semester on 
January 7, (although there were sixteen 
unexcused absentees). The meeting was 
basically organizational, and therefore 
very little substantial action, was taken. 
Subjects discussed at the meeting includ­
ed the tree painting by Morewood 7E, 
Spring Carnival, a new student court sys­
tem, and recognition of clubs.
v joint report by the Information 
and General Campus Committees stated 
that the residents of Morewood 7E can 
not be prosecuted in Student Court for 
painting the trees near the Senior Fence 
because the Senate rule on tree painting 
prohibits the former only if done to a 
height of eight feet above ground or
over. A recommendation to change the 
rule to prohibit tree painting over five 
feet was made.
Spring Carnival will be held (on 
April 8, 9, and 10). This is possible be­
cause their budget was finally passed. 
Steps are being taken to establish a new 
student court system in which one court 
would have jurisdiction over Greeks, 
dormitory residents, and commuters. This 
would be a change from the present sys­
tem where there is a special court for 
each type of resident. Finally, eleven 
clubs formerly recognized by Senate lost 
recognition since they are now either in­
active or did not respond to the Club 
Survey run by the Senate Rules Commit­
tee.
safekeeping practices had been main­
tained by victims. Security reports in­
dicate the majority of losses occur due to 
unlocked doors and unattended areas. 
Neglect and carelessness will definitely 
invite losses, but even more critical, 
encourage repeated occurrences.
During 1976, Security will con- 
nstantly be reminding the campus com­
munity of basic preventive security meas­
ures and will encourage all University 
members to help us maintain a greater 
level of protection against losses.
Letter Fraud 
Hits Campus
The latest get-rich scheme to nit the 
CMU campus is the pyramid chain letter. 
With minor variations, the letters follow 
this pattern: You buy the letter for ten 
dollars, but only if there is a five dollar 
money order attached to the list of seven 
names. You buy the letter, and the money 
order is mailed to the person at the top of 
the list. You copy the letter twice, elimin­
ate the name of the person at the top of 
the list and place your name at the bottom 
of the roster. You purchase two five 
dollar money orders, make them payable 
to the person at the top of the list and sell 
two copies of the letter for ten dollars. The 
twenty dollars you get for the two letters 
reimburses you for the ten dollars you 
spent for the letter plus the expense of the 
two five dollar money orders. You are 
supposed to sell the letters within twenty- 
four hours and if everyone does this then 
in one week one-hundred twenty-eight 
money orders for five dollars should be in 
the mail for you.
It is illegal to send this through the U.S. 
Mails, and for good reason. The money 
order is a feature designed to insure that 
the money comes to the person since you 
can’t notify the bank to put a stop on a 
money order and it is pointless to tear it 
up. However, all that is necessary to do is 
sign the money order with the hand that 
continued on page 5

---------------------------------------------------

Page 2—THE TARTAN-January 13, 1976
editor’s note
Long Live the First
The most common conclusion being drawn from Water­
gate is that it proved that the American System does work; 
that the Constitution can deal with corruption at the highest 
levels without jeopardizing the strength and stability of the 
nation.
This hypothesis is still highly controversial and it remains 
for the historians (the fraternity of which, / am not a 
member) to decide whether Watergate’s ultimate contribu­
tion to American history is this empirical confirmation.
Unquestionably, though, Watergate did demonstrate the 
necessity and utility to a “free” society for a “free” press. 
Within the last decade the American Journalistic community 
has been responsible for: (!) the revelation of the extent of 
American involvement in Vietnam as a result of the publica­
tion of the “Pentagon Papers”; (2) the exposure of wide­
spread corruption in Washington; and, (3) the current reports 
of the domestic intelligence activity of the CIA and the FBI. 
More than any division of the government, the American 
Press can take credit for the success of the democratic 
process. Even in Robert Red ford’s latest box office 
thriller,Three Days of the Condor, the audience discovers 
that the only salvation from the terror of the CIA lies in the 
awesome building on 43rd Street, the New York Times.
To a lesser degree the free press is the most active damper 
on administrative power on this campus. There is no other 
force at CMU which serves to check university actions and 
policy as effectively and as publically. / have worked on the 
TARTAN for four years and have strived for an independent, 
quality NEWSpaper because of this belief that without a 
student newspaper, the students of CarnegieMellon would be 
forsaking whatever power they have in favor of general 
ignorance.
/ recite these credentials not because of immodesty but 
because there exists on this campus a serious threat to the fu­
ture existence of the TARTAN. There is a serious misunder­
standing on this campus of the nature and function of the 
media. Administrators, faculty and students alike believe 
that the TARTAN is a vehicle in which to exercise their pero- 
gatives. Student Senate has discussed why the' TARTAN 
“only covers the negative things about Senate” and it has 
been suggested that the Senate be given a page in the 
TARTAN where they can give their side. It is not unusual 
for administrators to call me and ask that a article not be pu­
blished because it would make thier staff unhappy. / was re- 
cenlty very surprised when the editor of the other campus 
publication requested that a story be surpressed so as not 
to place his newspaper in a tenuous position. It is a dangerous 
indeed when the editors of a newspaper begin deciding what 
news is advatageous to print.
The most serious threat to the TARTAN’s continued 
existence, though, does not stem from interference but rather 
from antagonism and apathy. The English Department 
spreads the idea that journalism is talentless writing; an 
endeavor not deserving the talents of their students. The ob­
servation made recently in Newsweek that “Johnny Can’t 
Write” is true, and most students are unwilling to try. The 
result is an extremely sparse staff; a staff incapable of 
covering this campus the way it should be covered. If this 
trend continues, there will not be a TA RTAN.
The choice is yours, our readers. Either the students and 
faculty become more than just passive readers of this weekly 
newspaper or there will not be a weekly newspaper. That will 
be a sad day for the students, faculty and administration of 
Carnegie -Mellon University.
Gary Singer, editor
Erratum
The TARTAN, in the article “Schlag Wins” published in the Dec­
ember 9, 1975 issue, neglected to mention that Spirit won third 
place in the First Annual Christmas Tree Decorating Contest. We 
apologize for our omission.
letters
Too Many People
Editor:
“This class has entirely too 
many people. I hope some of 
you will consider dropping this 
course. ” This line was repeated 
by three different teachers last 
week. I find it quite sickening 
that after spending $2900 to at­
tend this institution, I am asked 
to not take certain courses. The 
teachers have a point though: a 
class with 47 students is no long­
er a recitation, and a public 
speaking.course with too many 
students to allow individual par­
ticipation is just a waste of time. 
The problem I realize is econom­
ic. However if CMU continues to 
sacrifice quality for economics, 
it is going to find itself offering 
state school quality with private 
school prices, and thus without 
any students. A public reply is 
invited from Dr. Cyert.
Frank Stein
Sue the School
Editor:
A couple of interesting court 
cases have been in the news re- 
ently. In one, a group of second 
year nursing students at Queens- 
borough Community College in 
New York, sued the school after 
being barred from a course req­
uired for graduation because 
they had not maintained a C 
average in other required 
courses. The students claimed 
they were never informed that 
the C average was necessary,and 
the requirment is not mentioned 
in any of the school’s literature. 
The court granted the students 
an injunction, allowing them to 
take class, which was overruled 
when the school appealed. The 
students have appealed that sec­
ond decision, and the case is still 
in court.
In Connecticut, a student at 
the University of Hartford sued 
the school for tuition and ex­
penses paid while taking her re 
uired courses. She claimed she 
did not learn anything from 
them, and the school should 
reimburse her. This case is also 
still in court.
This is becoming more and 
more common. In fact, it is a 
growing trend. I have heard or 
read of several incidents in 
which a student who was un­
happy with the education he or 
she is getting, sued the school. 
Well, I got to thinking about 
what CMU students could sue 
good ol’ Carnegie for, and there 
are a number of things.
For the student in H&SS (like 
me): For four years you sit on 
your rump and do as little work 
as possible. What little work you 
do, you get nothing out of. You 
scrimp and save to get by in 
your Squirrel Hill apartment. 
You’re treated as a second class 
citizen, and you can’t get a job. 
Just like being on Welfare! Hell, 
why go to college? Sue the
continued on page three
Volume 76tartan
January 13, 1976Number 14
Editor in Chief 
Gary Singer
Managing Editor:Charles Mitch 
Business Manager:Tom Kirkland 
News Editor: Debbie Rosenkrantz 
Entertainment Editor:Mark Chimsky 
Trapeze EditorRick Costa 
Sports Editor: Elly Zimmerman 
Photography Editor: Elliot Popowitz
Staff Photographers: Rick Frantz, James Johnston, Courtney Larson, Kathi Leichter, Dave Meeker, John Rose 
Mark Segal, Fred Shamlian, Brian Smith, Carl West, and Paul Williams.
Copyrighted 1976 by the Carnegie -Mellon University TARTAN. The Editorial Board reserves the right to edit 
or withhold from publication any copy it deems unfit for publication. Funded in part by the Student Govern­
ment of Carnegie -Mellon University, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania 15213. Editorial Offices: Skibo 50; [412] 
621 -26(30 extention656 or 481. Business Offices: Skibo 52; [412] 682-4557.
ALL RIGHTS RESERVED

---------------------------------------------------

news comment
THE TARTAN—January 13, 1976-Page 3
The Operation Was a Complete Success
by Petrus Manach
Official sources at Western 
Translyvania Hospital have in­
formed the Tartan that Dr. 
Richard Cypher, President of the 
Cranberry-Money Vocational
School, underwent emergency 
surgery during the Christmas 
holidays. Joseph Merde, Director 
of the hospital confirmed that 
Cypher had been hospitalized 
but refused to comment on the 
case. However a highly placed 
official revealed that “the emer­
gency surgery was performed to 
clear a blocked nasal passage 
and to replace a smashed diode.” 
The source added, “this is 
one of the strangest cases I have 
ever encountered; the man had a 
tape recorder in his nose. The 
unusual presence of the tape 
recorder in his nose required for 
the operation the services of an 
electrical engineer in addition to 
a nose, ears and throat specialist. 
Dr. Cypher had originally ar­
ranged for an instructor from 
his own vocational school to be 
the electrical engineer, however 
at the last minute, another en­
gineer had to be brought in be­
cause Dr. Cypher’s engineer 
could not be understood by the 
hospital staff due to his heavy 
foreign accent.”
Edith Bunker, Cypher’s per­
sonal secretary, told the Tartan 
that the “operation is a result of 
injuries suffered by the President 
during a purse snatching attempt 
during December. After success­
fully grabbing his wife’s purse,letters
continued from page two
school for an amount equal to 
the unemployment and welfare 
checks you could have been col­
lecting these last four years, or 
the amount you could have 
made as a pump jockey in a gas 
station. Also sue for the $20,000 
you spent, just to delay the col­
lection of unemployment and 
welfare by four years. Total 
damages asked for: $40,000.
It’s bad enough that CMU has 
led it’s Fine Arts students (arch­
itects excluded) to believe; that 
they are talented and might 
someday make a career out .of 
what they are majoring in, but 
the school has also made them 
hopelessly neurotic. (A neurotic 
being defined as someone who 
bangs his head against a wall and 
hasn’t enough sense to stop.) If 
you’re in Drama, P&S, Design, 
or Music, sue for the cost of the
k years of psychoanalysis you’ll 
to straighten yourself out. Also 
since most of you will wind up 
as book store clerks and junior 
high school teachers, sue for the 
difference in income between a 
clerk or teacher and a famous’ 
artist. Total damages asked for 
UyigiiigiiiT
If you’re in MIS oi PcEg you’ve 
got a lot to sue for. When you 
first came here, you were pro­
bably a nice, ordinary person, 
but when you leave you’ll be a 
walking computer, incapable of
the assailants were startled to see 
Cypher pursuing them. Panick­
ing, they threw the purse at him, 
which struck him in the nose, 
severely damaging the tape re­
corder.” Bunker added “the en­
gineer says the operation was a 
complete success, the tape re­
corder is as good as new; it was 
merely a matter of replacing a 
smashed diode. In addition the 
specialist corrected a condition 
which had caused Cypher to feel 
an unpleasant tickling sensation 
in his nostrils whenever he re­
wound the tape.”
Examination of Cypher’s 
medical records show that the 
recorder was originally implant­
ed as the result of an accident 
suffered at the age of 13. During 
a shopping trip to a Minneapolis 
department store, the young 
Dr. Cypher became separated 
from his mother. An elderly 
drunk approached the boy and 
offered him a walnetto. The 
drunk became irate when 
Cypher refused to take the 
candy. Witnesses report that 
Cypher told the drunk “since I 
have never eaten a walnetto I 
don’t know if the marginal 
utility justifies my acceptance of 
your offer; if this isn’t clear 
I suggest you read the paper on 
this I recently published with 
Professor Digroot. However if 
you would have offered me 
some pulpy pineapple punch I 
would have gladly accepted, I 
just love pulpy pineapple 
punch.” The drunk, who des-
thinking in abstract terms, and 
unable to spell DOG. But, at 
least you’ll have every line of 
every Star Trek committed to 
memory. Anyway, sue for the 
cost of the treatment of the skin 
and bone diseases derived from 
pushing the buttons of a calcul­
ator with the same finger every 
day for 40 years. Next, sue for 
the cost of the caffine pills and 
speed you used in order to pull 
those all-nighters (speed usfed for 
pleasure should not be included)
Last but not least: Students in 
AMS and GSIA should sue for 
the. cost of the hearing aid they 
will need after 4-5 years of 
straining to understanding pro­
fessors who barely speak En­
glish. Total damages asked for: 
$200 and up, depending on how 
much loud music you listen to.
The question to be decided is: 
Is there a contract between the 
student and school wherein one 
party (the student) gives some 
good (money) to a second party 
(the school) in exchange for an­
other good (education). The 
other problem is: the burden of 
proof rests with the prosecution. 
That is, the student must prove 
that he paid his money and re­
ceived nothing in return. Beats 
me how anyone can do that! 
Oh well, get a good lawyer, 
Dr. Cyert, and I’ll see you in 
court.
Dave Kanner
pised pulpy pineapple punch,
was enfuriated by these remarks.
Witnesses report that the drunk
grabbed Cypher and threw him
down the escalator. At the bot­tom he slid head first into the
stereo department, where he 
collided head on with a tape- 
recorder. Cypher was taken to 
the hospital where doctors 
where forced to construct a new 
nose around the tape recorder 
to save the machine from being 
permanently damaged. After this 
tragic accident, Dr. Cypher vow­
ed that he would never again use 
an escalator or an elevator.
Sources close to the Presi­
dent say he finds the tape 
recorder to be an invaluable as­
set. He uses it to record all of 
his conversation. Each night, the 
tape is played back during his 
sleep while a secretary tran­
scribes the contents.
The Tartan has obtained a
transcript of a recent meeting 
the President had with high 
officials in the administration. 
The following is the text of that 
transcription:
Dr. Cypher: I am pleased to have 
this opportunity to address all of 
you. First I want to remind you 
that following this meeting we 
will be serving pulpy pineapple 
punch and I want to thank my 
assistant, Richard Barnyard for 
finding the time to pulp the 
pineapple for the punch. I also 
want to make sure you don’t 
forget the financial statements 
that have been placed in front 
of each of you. These were pre­
pared by my Vice-President for 
Business Affairs, Richard 
Cannedcom. Now I have several 
important announcements to 
make involving changes to be 
made in your staff directory. 
First, Earl Stank, Dean of
Mr. Kenneth B. Keeler 
The MITRE Corporation 
Box 208 
Bedford, Massachusetts 01730
Student Affairs, has changed his 
name to Richard Stank and I 
am appointing him to be the 
Czar of Student Affairs. Chuck 
V. Whatshisname, Dean of Resi­
dent Life has changed his name 
to Richard V. Whatshisname and 
I am announcing his appoint­
ment to be Czar of Resident 
Life. Additionally Steve Jones , 
Director of Campus Services, has 
changed his name to Richard 
Jones and I am appointing him 
Commisar for Campus Services.
I regret to announce that the 
District Commonwealth Court 
has turned down Rita Z. 
Coalbin’s request to change her 
name to Richard Z. Coalbin, 
ruling that Richard is not an 
appropriate name for a woman. 
Unfortunately since she is not 
named Richard, she is inelegible 
to work in Warner Hall, but I 
think we can find a job for Tier 
continued on page five
Campus Interviews
minds
matter
MITRE is a place which daily faces the challenge of minds over matter, and where, 
even more importantly, minds matter a lot. Since we’re a nonprofit system engineer­
ing company operating wholly in the public interest and dealing with tough problems 
assigned to us by more than a score of governmental agencies, we know that our 
greatest resource is the human mind. And we know that the kind of mind we need 
also needs to know that it will be working on important problems with other profes­
sionals. What’s more, we'll be quite specific in spelling out your assignment to you.
All of this because you matter... and because at MITRE, minds matter.
We are currently seeking new graduates to work in command and control systems, 
information processing systems, electronic surveillance and communications 
systems.
If you’re an EE, Computer Science, Math or Operations Research major, you could 
be working on problems in digital information systems, data handling and reduction, 
microprogramming techniques, data base structure, time sharing, text processing, 
management information systems, computer program design and development or 
evaluation of present day software for phase-over to next generation machines.
Or, you might want to get involved with telecommunications, voice communications, 
microwave and digital signal processing, radar design, propagation studies or 
advanced modulation, coding, error control and data compression techniques. These 
are just a few of the areas in which you might get involved at MITRE.
All of these positions require a minimum of a BS degree. If you have more than a 
bachelor’s, that’s even better. Almost % of our 750 technical staff members have 
advanced degrees.
These opening are at our corporate headquarters at Bedford, Massachusetts 
(suburban Boston). If you are interested and think you can meet our standards, 
send us your resume. Better yet, we’d like to talk to you on campus. Sign up at your 
Placement Office. We'll be there on January 15.
THEMITRE
CORPORATION
lwrtF zAAon5ra25M lCAFoMpn —HR

---------------------------------------------------

Nt-p yJTHE TARTAN—StartnM udg ueDm
announcements
John P. Crecine, Dean of the College of
1rCta252p3 ta, 9o72tF 972pa7p3 62FF /tfp 
oApa oBB27p /orn3 Bon 35r,pa53g Erp3,tM3 
BnoC u:di 5o k:iiT E/taL MorT
Premeds and other Health Profession
35r,pa53: E/p B2n35 Fp75rnp 2a 5/p —p,KW 
soFra5ppn3 .p75rnp 9pn2p3 t5 9/t,M32,p 
1o3A25tF 62FF bp /pF, t5 D:ii AC oa E/rn3G
,tMg StartnM ukg 2a 5/p Ct2a /o3A25tF tr,G
25on2rCT ­nT OoAtF 0to 62FF 3AptL oa 
;Ptn,2oft37rFtn 9rn-pnMT[ NtnL2a- 62FF bp 
Bnpp 2a 5/p AtnL2a- -tnt-p 2B Mor /tfp Morn 
AtnL2a- 527Lp5 ftF2,t5p, bM 5/p 9/t,M32,p 
soFra5ppn43 zBB27pT vFF 2a5pnp35p, 35r,pa53 
ta, Bt7rF5M tnp 2af25p,T 9rb3pwrpa5 Fp7G
5rnp3 62FF bp pfpnM o5/pn E/rn3,tMT ]t57/ 
5/23 3At7p Bon taaora7pCpa53T 9pp vT ST 
95np2BBg ­1 (uuyg Bon ,p5t2F3T
Health Profession students: The Premed­
27tF v,f23onM PoCC255pp taaora7p3 5/t5 
­nT OpntF, 95T ­paa23g ­2np75on oB 95rG
,pa5 vBBt2n3g xa2fpn325M oB N2553brn-/ Ont,G
rt5p 97/ooF oB NrbF27 1ptF5/g 62FF bp oa 
5/p P—x 7tCAr3 BnoC ui:ii tC K u(:ii 
aooa oa 9t5rn,tMg StartnM uDg 2a 8npp, 
1tFFg —tn-tnp5 —onn23oa Ptnap-2p 1tFFT 
­nT 95T ­paa23 62FF -2fp t 5tFL tbor5 oAG
Aon5ra252p3 2a 5/p Ont,rt5p 97/ooF oB NrbKI 
F2p 1ptF5/ ta, ta36pn wrp352oa3T E/23 23 
t -oo, tF5pnat52fp 5o Cp,27tF 37/ooFT
The CMU Pistol Club meets each Monday
t5 y:di AC oa SpaL2a3 0ta-p 2a 5/p 3rbG
bt3pCpa5 oB 5/p —tn-tnp5 —onn23oa PtnG
ap-2p 8r2F,2a-T E/p ArnAo3p oB 5/p 7Frb 23 
5o Anof2,p 5/p P—x 7oCCra25M 5/p oAAonG
5ra25M 5o Atn5272At5p 2a np7npt52oatF A235oF 
3/oo52a-T vFF pwr2ACpa5 npwr2np, 5o AtnG
5272At5p 23 tft2FtbFp t5 5/p Cpp52a-T Ron 
2aBonCt52oa 7tFF l’5pa32oa yieH('uT
THE CMU KARATE CLUB'S beginners
7Ft33p3 35tn5 E/rn3,tMg StaT ukg t5 m:di ACg 
2a E/235Fp 1tFFT Nnt7527p3 tnp /pF, pfpnM 
Erp3,tM ta, E/rn3,tMg m:di K ':di ACg 
ta, 9t5rn,tMg uuTdi K u:di ACT 8p 3rnp 5o 
6ptn Foo3p 7Fo5/2a-T lfpnMoap 23 6pF7oCpT
House to sublet - Greenfield area - 3 bed­
nooC3T RrFFM Brna23/p,g 2CCp,2t5p o77rG
Ata7MT Rorn nooCCt5p3 pwrtF3 U'( t 
Coa5/ t A2p7pT dm(Kkd''T
An exhibit illustrating the versatile career
oB vnaoF, 8taLg 2a5pnat52oatFFM Lao6a 
7tFF2-ntA/pn ta, AnoBp33on oB ,p32-a t5 PtnG
ap-2pK—pFFoa xa2fpn325Mg 23 ao6 oa ,23AFtM 
2a 5/p P—x F2bntnM43 R2ap ta, 0tnp 8ooL 
0ooC3T la525Fp, [vnaoF, 8taL: vn5235g 
97/oFtng Ept7/png[ 5/p p’/2b25 2a7Fr,p3 
p’tCAFp3 oBK 8taL43 7tFF2-ntA/27 ta, ,pG
32-a 6onL 2a 5/p B2pF,3 oB ArbF23/2a-g t,fpnG
5232a-g An2a52a- ta, tn7/25p75rntF Fp55pn2a-T
Nt-pta5 zBB272tF3 5o,tM taaora7p,g 9raG
,tMg StartnM u'5/ t3 5/p B2atF ,pt,F2ap Bon 
tAAF27t52oa3 Bon 5/p ueDm —233 Npaa3MFftaG
2t Nt-pta5g 5o bp 35t-p, t-t2a 2a ]t3/2a-G
5oag NtT t5 5/p RntaLF2a —tFFg ,rn2a- —tn7/T 
E/p —233 Npaa3MFfta2t Nt-pta5 23 ta oBB2G
72tF —233 x9vK —233 xa2fpn3p Poa5p35T 
E/pnp 23 ao [Ev.lhE[ npwr2npCpa5g tFF 
qr,-2a- 23 oa 5/p bt323 oB Ao23pg Apn3oatFG
25M ta, bptr5M oB Bt7p ta, B2-rnpT vAAF2G
7ta53 Cr35 bp bp56ppa u' ta, ('g apfpn 
Ctnn2p, ta, t5 Fpt35 32’ Coa5/ np32,pa53 
oB Npaa3MFfta2tg 5/r3 7oFFp-p ,onC 35rG
,pa53 tnp pF2-2bFpT vFF -2nF3 2a5pnp35p, 2a 
7oCAp52a- Bon 5/p E25Fp Cr35 6n25p 5o 
—c99 Nlhh9j.svhcv NvOlvhE 
1lv­%xv0El09g dk ]l9E P1l9EG
hxEg ]v91chOEzhg Nv ukdiu bM 
Svhxv0j u'E1T .p55pn3 Cr35 2a7Fr,p 
t np7pa5 A/o5og t bn2pB b2o-ntA/M ta, 
A/oap arCbpnT
The Eta Chapter of Mortar Board at
Ptnap-2pK—pFFoa 23 t ,2352a-r23/p, ht5G
2oatF zn-ta2)t52oa oB 3pa2on3T v3 t 3oG
72p5M 7oa7pnap, 625/ 97/oFtn3/2Ag Fpt,pnG
3/2Ag ta, 3pnf27p 5/p ArnAo3p oB —on5tn 
8otn, 23 5o bp ta t752fpg f25tF 7tCAr3 
Bon7pT E/p 2,pt oB 3pnf27p 23 ta 2CAon5ta5 
t3Ap75 oB 5/p -norA 6/27/ Cpp53 ao5 Bon 
3pFBK/oaon br5 5o 7oa5n2br5p 5o /rCta25M 
2a 5/p ra2fpn325M ta, 7oCCra25MT 92a7p 
ueu' —on5tn 8otn, /t3 bppa Ct,p rA oB 
6oCpa oaFMT 1o6pfpng 5/23 3An2a- 62FF 
CtnL t /235on27 7/ta-p Bon 5/p on-ta2)tKI 
52oaT Ron 5/p B2n35 52Cp Cpa tnp pF2-2bFp Bon 
CpCbpn3/2AT Pta,2,t5p3 Cr35 bp qra2on3 
625/ t %Nv oB t5 Fpt35 dT(kT vFF 35r,pa53 
6/o wrtF2BM Bon CpCbpn3/2A tnp 2af25p, 5o 
ta on2pa5t52oa Cpp52a- oa StartnM u'5/ 
t5 y:ii AC 2a 5/p 9L2bo Rt7rF5M .ora-pT 
v5 5/23 Cpp52a- 5/p CpCbpn3 oB —on5tn 
8otn, 62FF bp /tAAM 5o ,237r33 5/p Bra7K 
s52oa ta, -otF3 oB 5/p /oaon 3o72p5MT cB Mor 
tnp pF2-2bFp br5 7taao5 t55pa, 5/p Cpp52a- 
K AFpt3p 7oa5t75 lF2)tbp5/ ]2FF2tC3 t5 m'dK 
mye'T
Tech Flying Club will hold its first meeting
oB 5/p 3pCp35pn oa ]p,ap3,tMg StartnM (ug 
2a 9L2bo u( t5 DTdi ACT 0p-2oatF ­ptFpn 
Bon vatFo- Ent2a2a- PoCAr5pn3 ca7T 62FF bp 
oa /Ya, 5o ,pCoa35nt5p 5/p vEPKkui 
BF2-/5 32CrFt5onT ­237r332oa ta, npBnp3/G
Cpa53 62FF BoFFo6T vFF tnp 6pF7oCpV E/23 
3pCp35pn43 Cpp52a-3 62FF bp oa 5/p 5/2n, 
]p,ap3,tM oB pfpnM Coa5/: StaT (ug 
RpbT u'g —tn7/ uDg vAn2F (u t5 D:di AC 
2a 9L2bo 0ooC u(T Ron Brn5/pn 2aBonCtG
52oa 7tFF EoaM R2ap t5 m'(K'mymT
Classified
House to Sublet—Greenfeild area—3 bed­
nooC3T RrFFM Brna23/p,g 2CCp,2t5p o77rAG
ta7MT R,rn nooCt5p3 pwrtF3 U'(Tii t 
Coa5/ t A2p7pT dm(Kkd''T
The Tartan needs a typist to typeset copy,
AtM U(TiiH/nT —r35 bp tbFp 5o 5MApT cawr2np 
t5 5/p Ev0Evh oBB27pg 9L2bo ki on 7tFF 
m'(KykkDg t3L Bon P/tnF2p —257/T
Weekly flights from New York to Prague
ta, ]tn3t6 bp-2aa2a- —tn7/ ueDmT 9Ap72tF 
95r,pa5 0t5p3T ]n25p: xa2fpn325M v2n P/tnG
5png uiui spnCoa5 vfparp hT]Tg ]t3/2a-G
5oag ­TPT (iiikT
Wanted programmer/operator, IBM For­
5nta 2a5pnf2p63 RpbT dg Bon 3oA/g ta, qnT 
—r35 /tfp t 7tnT Poa5t75 AFt7mCpa5 oBB27p 
El.lK—v0& chPT on PtFF m'DKyyiDT% S 
Roommate(s) wanted for Squirrel Hill. 
027Lg y((K'mD' on m'DKyiDd on 35oA bM 
yuui 97/T
Variity Football & Soccer Players eligible
Bon t5/FA527 t6tn,3g A27L rA Erp3,tM3 ta, 
E/rn3,tM3g d:di K y:di AC v5/Fp527 zBB27pg 
OMC ui(T
PIANISTS: BE APPRECIATED! Lyric
!btn25oap 3ppL3 t77oCAta235 Bon 3An2a- np 
725tFg qo2a5 2B ,p32np,T 9/orF, 32-/5 npt, 6pFF 
ta, paqoM 2a5pnAnp52a- F2p,pn oB 97/rbpn5g 
Rtrnpg $7T PtFF St7L t5 m'dKuemd on ’ukdQ 
AFpt3p Fptfp Cp33t-pT
Self defense courses for women of high
37/ooF t-p on oF,pn tnp bp2a- 3Aoa3onp, bM 
5/p xa2fpn325M oB N2553brn-/43 ]oCpa43 
Ppa5pn ta, 5tr-/5 bM 5/p RpC2a235 &tnt5p 
xa2oa bp-2aa2a- StartnM (D ta, ('g ueDmg 
t5 5/p RtFL 97/ooF OMCat32rCg vFFpwr2AAt 
95npp5g ztLFta,T E6o bp-2aapn3 7Ft33p3 tnp 
oBBpnp, oa Erp3,tM3 BnoC D:ii 5o ':ii AC 
on ]p,ap3,tM3 BnoC k:di 5o D:ii ACT va 
2a5pnCp,2t5p 7Ft33 23 tft2FtbFp ]p,ap3,tM3 
BnoC D:ii 5o ':di ACg ta, BonCtF Ltnt5p 
5nt2a2a- Bon t,fta7p, 35r,pa53 23 37/p,rFp, 
Erp3,tMg ]p,ap3,tMg ta, E/rn3,tM pfpaG
2a-3 BnoC ':di 5o ui:ii ACT
cawr2n2p3 ta, np-235nt52oa BonC3 CtM bp 
ob5t2ap, bM Ct2F2a- t 3pFBKt,,np33p,g 
35tCAp, pafpFoAp 5o Pt33ta,nt Opon-pg 
u(ik 12FF vfparpg N2553brn-/g Nt uk((ug 
on bM 7tFF2a- DduKdkyuT
Earn up to $80 per month for 4 hours of
Morn 52Cp Apn 6ppLT
­oat5p NFt3Ct t5 9pntKEp7 82oFo-27tF3 
dyiD Ronbp3 vfpT Xhp’55o vnbM43 2a ztLG
Fta,?T zApa':yk tC K D:ii AC —oaKE/rn3T 
':yk tC K y:ii AC Rn2T N/oap m'(QdueiT
ROOMMATE WANTED: M or F; clean,
wr2p5g ta, np3Aoa32bFpT 9/tnp Ftn-p 3Ctn5FM 
BrnaT Xoap bp,nooC? tA5T 6H—T 2a 9wT 12FF 
ta, 7oafpa2pa5T U'k Apn CoT Xr52F3g 2a7T? 
* 3p7T ,pAT k(uKk'muT
Research Assistant and/or Tutor in History
tft2FtbFpT NFpt3p 7oa5t75 —tnM 1tFF t5 m'DK 
(iDuT
Grad Students 
& Seniors
alternative high school 
in Oakland needs volun­
teers teachers for their 
third term if interested 
in this exciting teaching ex­
perience, please call
687-1193
9 a.m. — 5 p.m.
Jan. 19
needs short stories and
*
*
*
*
*
feature articles. 
Any interested, drop 
off a note in the 
TARTAN office.
UNIVERSITY 
COPY 
SERVICE
HIGHEST QUALITY XEROX COPIES 
(All work unconditionally guaranteed) 
LOWEST PRICES 
Single copies per original — 5c 
Multiple copies per original:
1st copy 
2nd-50th copies 
51st
4c
3c
2c
NO EXTRA CHARGE FOR:
collating • 3-hole punched 
colored paper • legal si/e
Low cost bookbinding 
Quality offset printing 
209 N. Craig St. 681 5411
There will be a meeting of the Spring Carn­
2ftF PoCC255pp t5 ':ii AC 2a 0C dd 9L2bo 
oa 9ra,tMg StartnM u'5/T vFF 2a5pnp35p, 
ApoAFp 3/orF, t55pa,T
Any commuter who wishes to run for an
office in the upcoming Carnegie-Mellon 
Commuter Council elections and did not 
sign up to run on enrollment day may do 
so by leaving your name and the office 
which you’ wish to run for in the Mailbox 
of CCCP behind the Skibo desk. Elections 
will be held in Skibo Lobby January 22, 
23 form 10:00 am to 2:00 pm.
Claude Poncelet, of Westinghouse Corpor­
t52oag 62FF ,237r33 [vF5pnat52fp lapn-M 
9orn7p3: E/p2n paf2noaCpa5tF 2CAF27tG
52oa3g[ t5 D:di AC ]p,ap3,tM StartnM uyg 
t5 5/p N2553brn-/ Otn,pa Ppa5png 9/t,M 
ta, R2B5/T
Number 6 District Police/Community
Pora72F 62FF /oF, 253 ap’5 Cpp52a- Erp3,tMg 
StartnM udg D:di AC t5 5/p 1oCp Bon 
Pn2AAFp, P/2F,npaT
EoA27: ]/t5 23 5/p ArnAo3p 5o 5/p &Ke 
PonA3 ta, /o6 ,op3 25 pBBp75 orn 7oCCraG
25M?
MONTESSORI
Teacher Training Program
APPROVED BY THE 
AMERICAN MONTESSORI SOCIETY
Sixth AERCO Summer Academic 
Program for 8 weeks from June 23, 
1976 to August 13,1976 to be 
followed by a nine month Internship 
Experience. Students will be trained 
in the Montessori philosophy and 
teaching method, child development 
and learning materials for pre-school 
programs. Now at two. locations. 
AERCO/Ithaca Program conducted on 
the campus of Cornell University and 
AERCO/Phila. Program conducted on 
the Ambler campus of Temple Uni­
versity, where you can spend your 
summer in the Bicentennial area.
For information and brochure, call or write
AERCO/lthaca Montessori Teacher 
Training Program (Mailing Address)
Mr. Kenneth Bronsil 
1374 Meadowbright Lane 
Cincinnati, Ohio 45230 
(513) 231-0868
AERCO/Philadelphia Montessori Teacher 
Training Program
1400 East Willow Grove Ave. 
Philadelphia, Pa. 19118 
(215) AD-3-0141 42
VIDMUK
ft CO
Artist's
Supplies
(ie 9T Pnt2- 95T 
ztLFta, 
m(uKik(e
9 a.m. - 5 p.m. Daily
10 a.m. to 4 p.m. Saturdays

---------------------------------------------------

THE TARTAN—January 13, 1976—Page 5
Heinz Honored at Banquet
Congressman John Heinz III, 
(R-Pa.) was honored at a hundred dollar 
a plate City of Hope benefit dinner at 
the Pittsburgh Hilton on Sunday, Decem­
ber 14, 1975. The banquet served to high­
light both the extensive research being 
carried on within the vast City of Hope 
medical center and the actively concerned 
efforts of congressman heinz to such hu­
mane and expedient answers to the many 
questions of health care in the United 
States. Currently, Mr. Heinz serves on the 
Health and Environment and the Energy 
and Power Subcommittees of the Inter­
state and Foreign Commerce Committee. 
He also is a member of the Select Commi­
ttee on Aging, whose establishment he 
spearheaded in 1974, and is ranking mi­
nority member of its Subcommittee on
Health and Long-Term Care.
At the banquet he addressed him­
self to the major progress being made by 
the City of Hope, and throughout the 
evening there were winking references to 
his recent decision to run for the U.S. 
Senate.
Mr. Heinz is a low-keyed charis­
matic speaker in the Kennedy mold. But
the City of Hope banquet was not merely 
publicity hype for the Congressman- 
The city of Hope, after all, is a bipartisan 
operation--the banquet served as due tri­
bute to a man who, in his four years in 
Washington, has worked to improve the 
health care conditions and the quality of 
American life.
Successful Operation
Congressman Heinz was honored at the City of 
Hope Benefit Dinner
continued from page 3 
on the serving line at Skibo.
And now I want to present my innova­
tive solutions for several other problems we 
have been facing. First I am pleased to an­
nounce the appointment of Woody Hayes 
as Head Football Coach. Despite his miser­
able performance in the Rose Bowl we 
think he has a few good seasons left in 
him; besides Ohio State let us have him 
cheap. I want to show all of you the accep­
tance letter I received from Woody where 
he writes us that he hopes to be a coach all 
of his life and he mentions that he has a 
dream of someday winning a national 
championship.
A problem of lesser importance than 
our football program is the housing short­
age we are facing. I have explained to be­
fore that only by admitting as many stu­
dents as possible can we bring in enough 
money from tuition to run the university 
profitably, and for me to be able to get 
that yacht I want. What we are striving for 
is an operation with high volume and low 
prices. This is sometimes known as the 
discount house theory of the firm. The 
problem we face is where to house all those 
sons of blue collar workers who come here 
to be turned into professionals. In response 
to this I am pleased to announce our new
Tech House sponsors o
SQUARE DANCE
Yes, you can swing your partner and 
bow your corner at
SKIBO BALLROOM 
Saturday, January 17th 
8 P.M. to midnight
For R0ll tickets, visit 
TECH HOUSE, 5125 Margaret Morrison St. 
(Next to Donner Hall)
or The ORATORY, 4040 Bigelow Blvd. 
(No tickets will be available at the doorl)
cultural exchange program. I am asking 
that all faculty and staff take in a student 
to live with them. I realize that many 
students are boorish and have poor table 
manners, so to set an example I am having 
two disadvantaged students from Long 
Island live with me next semester. You 
will find the sign up list for taking in 
homeless students on the table by the 
refreshments. I want to thank all of you 
for being here and now bring on the 
pulpy pineapple punch.
Mudge wins
continued from page 1
working TV’s, and other benefits that 
undergraduates normally receive.
SDC, while not insensitive to the 
pleas from the Mudge undergrads, were 
highly concerned that once they invested 
epuipment in Mudge they would lose con­
trol over it, since Mudge is not controlled 
by SDC. What finally emerged was a re­
solution to give recreational equipment 
(not funds) to Mudge, provided that 
the house was at least 35% undergraduate 
and that the areas in which these items 
are placed would revert to SDC control.
Chain Letter
continued from page 1
you do not normally use to sign things 
with, then endorse it with your own signa­
ture, and deposit it in your own bank 
account. Even if people don’t think to do 
this, only the people who started the pyr­
amid can benefit.
If the progression is followed, in three 
weeks 4,194,304 have been involved in the 
pyramid. By the fifth week
34,359,738,368 letters are available for 
purchase. You have no
way of knowing what point the pyramid is 
currently at so you would be well advised 
to avoid this clever confidence game.
ROTC Awards
Dr. B. Richard Teare, University Profes­
sor, and Dr. Conrad R. Hilpert, Mechanical 
Engineering, recently received Certificates 
of Achievement from the US Army First 
ROTC Region, Fort Bragg, North Carolina, 
as a result of their support of the Army 
ROTC Program at Carnegie-Mellon.
Dr. Teare’s certificate recognized his as­
sistance in improving the image of Army 
ROTC on the CMU campus. It noted his 
consistent support of Army ROTC through 
attendence and participation at various 
functions and events. He also was instru­
mental in upgrading the acceptance of the 
ROTC faculty on campus by utilizing their 
engineering experience in the capacity of 
consultants for his students on various 
projects.
Dr. Hilpert was recognized for his 
assistance to the program by acting in the 
capacity of an academic counselor to 
ROTC cadets. It was also noted that he 
had created a favorable image towards 
ROTC while participating as a recruiter in 
the general CMU recruiting effort.
CMU
STUDENT
ACTIVITIESCALENDAR
SPRING 1976
Available at the Skibo 
Information Desk.
Free with CMU ID

---------------------------------------------------

Page 6—THE TARTAN-January 13, 1976The Fertile 'Cuckoo'
By Susan N. Klein
The first thing you have to do is forget all 
other versions; if you read the book, or saw 
the production off-Broadway, or saw college 
productions, put them out of your mind and 
watch this movie as if it were a completely 
naive experience. And then you must focus 
on Jack Nicholson’s eyes, because that’s 
where his performance as Randle P. McMur- 
phy is centered.
We’ve been taught to pay attention to his 
voice, to that slow, nasal Jersey drawl which 
does for swear words what Olivier’s does 
for Hamlet’s monologues. It’s been said we 
should always concentrate on his mouth, on 
the way he uses his great white teeth and his 
grin to accentuate innuedos in the dialogue. 
But in “Cuckoo’s Nest” the eyes have it. 
Towards the end of the film, McMurphy 
throws a New Year’s party for the fellows on 
his ward, sneaking in broads and booze, 
stealing the keys to the barred windows. He 
is about to escape from the asylum, so we 
think, but before he steps through the open 
window he lies down on the floor with some 
Jack Daniels. Milos Forman’s camera holds 
a close-up on him for nearly three minutes, 
and Nicholson doesn’t have a single line. His 
green eyes wince and his arched eyebrows 
furrow down and up and then relax; Mc­
Murphy is thinking about his stay at the asy­
lum, he’s running the adventures through in 
his mind. He’s thinking about the men he 
has grown to know; his lids close down heav­
ily and he squints violently and shuts his 
eyes tight. He’s going to miss those guys, 
maybe he will even miss Nurse Ratched. He 
grins and slowly his eyes flutter closed. For 
three minutes the camera hasn’t moved, he 
hasn’t said a line but all this mental chatter 
can be read in those eyes.
McMurphy is pulled out of a fight with an 
attendant and is rushed upstairs for a frigh­
tening electric-shock treatment. When he 
returns to the ward, his usual bright eyes, 
beady like costume jewelry, look like they­
’ve been vacuumed or sandblasted. He 
creeps past the other men, shuffling on the 
balls of his feet, and as they stare up at him, 
panic-stricken at the loss of their pugnacious 
“savior”, he turns toward Chief Broom, the 
deaf and dumb Indian, and slowly lowers 
one eyelid. McMurphy is faking! The In­
dian grins and in a split-second the gleam 
comes back to McMurphy’s eyes as he 
breaks out of his act, laughing raucously and 
slapping his fellow inmates on their backs. 
They aren’t the only ones who have been 
fooled. The color returns to Nurse Rat- 
ched’s cheeks; and the audience shifts a- 
round in their seats.
Milos Forman the Czecholsovakin direc­
tor knows what Americans are afraid of. In 
Taking Off, his last film, he showed how 
fake the liberal, middle-class was, he popped 
their balloons and called them on their fears: 
They were afraid of their own sexuality, a- 
fraid of the drug-culture, afraid of their own 
children. Foreman gave us a panorama of 
faces, he chose non-actors for lead roles be­
cause of a look they had about them. Buck
Henry, the screenwriter who looks like he 
has been sired by Jack Lemmon and Wally 
Cox, played a gibbery suburban papa, 
shocked yet titillated by his daughter’s rebel­
liousness. And between the main story line, 
Forman spliced in a sub-plot involving teen-
This mixing of real madness with feigned 
madness makes for an initial discomfort with 
the comedy in the screenplay. The audience 
is at first unsure of itself when it laughs. We 
wonder if we are indeed laughing at real men 
-tal cases, in which case, we are considered
Iron-willed Nurse Ratched (LOUISE FLETCHER) 
patients in "One Flew Over the Cuckoo's Nest," a
age girls auditioning to make a record: in 
actuality this was the very real footage of 
those girls who were auditioning for the part 
of the daughter in the film. Forman saw the 
potential of these street faces, kinky-haired 
adolescents up to their ears in super-cool 
but scared to death. Their faces were chalk- 
white, they bit their lips and giggled nervous­
ly and that was exactly what Forman wan­
ted.
He does it again in “Cuckoo’s Nest”. 
There are real asylum inmates appearing in 
the film; Forman will not tell us who the 
real actors are or who the inmates are -some 
inmates even reversed roles to portray atten­
dants on screen. And that in itself is frigh­
tening. For the faces are again very unmade- 
up looking; invariably pallid with blacked- 
out eyes, sunken, distorted shadows on their 
faces, skinny, fat, it makes no difference. 
They look exactly like faces you see on the 
street, yet disarmingly like fun-house mirror 
images. Where is the line drawn between 
sanity and madness; between the poseurs ’
and the real maniacs? Forman won’t tell us, 
and that is alarming; he has astutely cap­
tured the neurosis of a collective uncon­
scious; we all wonder if perhaps everyone 
isn’t somewhat mad. He finds uniqueness 
only in the ways we mask our vulnerability.
rules the ward and determines the fate of her 
Fantasy Films presentation for United Artists
tasteless and immature. But here is where 
Forman’s film becomes unique in its treat­
ment of Ken Kesey’s themes. We gradually 
fall into McMurphy’s pattern of thinking 
that there is a paper-thin, nearly invisible 
line between sanity and madness, (McMur-
phy himself is never quite sure which side he 
is on), therefore it perfectly o.k. to laugh 
at the inmate’s behavior, since we are in es­
sence laughing at ourselves. This is a funda­
mental undertone hinted at in the group- 
therapy scenes, and then masterfully liber­
ated in the randy basketball game and fish­
ing boat sequences Forman frees us to en­
joy the quirkiness of the inmates as we see 
in them our very own “sane” acts and 
games. The sexual tension exigent in the 
Kesey novel between McMurphy and Nurse 
Ratched is played down in deference to this 
idea, and it does not cost the story nearly as 
much as one might expect. Foreman’s is 
simply a different focus rather than a weaker 
one.
Because McMurphy is shown more often 
relating to his fellow inmates than to Nurse 
Ratched, the importance of these characteri­
zations is strengthened. William Redfield, a 
former Broadway juvenile who has in recent 
years been playing fuddy-duddys, gives an 
admirable portrayal of the erudite and im­
potent Harding. Brad Dourif suffers with 
quiet fire as the stuttering, over-protected 
boy, Billy. Willy Sampson, a huge lumber­
jack Forman found cutting Oregon timber 
turns in a remarkably restrained Chief 
Broom, baying silently at the moon, fighting 
off the curse of his alcoholic father. The 
tone of Louise Fletcher’s Nurse Ratched is 
hard to track down. She is fluctuating be­
tween pettiness and flat-out bitchiness; per­
haps on second viewing her characterization 
may reveal more.
Forman’s finished product may well turn 
into a cult film the likes of “Easy Rider”. 
Though it is divorced from the rebellious 
anti-establishment themes of the 60’s, it pos­
sesses the endearing, lingering invitation to 
see it a dozen times and still have fun and be 
moved. Jack Nitzche’s ubiquitous, cloying 
score with eerie, icy reeds bespeaks the 
film’s ultimate lure. It is casual without be­
coming off-handed, poetic without being 
pathetic. And it is about time Jack Nichol­
son brought something home for his efforts.
EXPERIENCE...
"THE BEST TEACHER!"
Plan that next conference with us, and see what 
years of meeting and catering experience can 
mean! From punch and cookies to a gourmet 
dinner... our fine attention to detail deserves a 
perfect grade! Top shelf catering... elegant meet­
ing rooms ... and a knack for gracious hospitality 
have earned us our reputation. For that upcoming 
university function, we're first in a class by our­
selves. You'll see, we've learned our lessons well!
B'NAI BRITH HILLEL- 
JEWISH UNIVERSITY CENTER
StarnMMud g egDms goF sCp ehboyv
sponsored by Pitt Hellel Club 
Sunday January 18 11a.m.
Npn3oatF ca32-/53 2a5o 5/p —2,Klt35
by 2 students who recently returned from a U.J.F. trip to Israel
Where? Hillel Library, 3rd floor, 31 5 S. Bellefield
315 S. Bellefield Avenue (Across from Heinz Chapel)
621-8875
HOTEL WEBSTER HALL
4415 Fifth Avenue • Pittsburgh, Pa. 15213 
Telephone 621-7700
Singles: $18-$29 Doubles: $26-$33 
Free Parking For Overnight Guests 
Children Under 16 Years Of Age.
Stay Free In Room With Parents *

---------------------------------------------------

???????????????????
THE TARTAN—January 13, 1976—Page 7
“Things from My World”- is the title 
of a multi-media art exhibition by Dona
S. Groer at the Undercroft-Gallery, First 
Unitarian Church, Morewood at Ellsworth, 
Shadyside.
The exhibit lasts from January 11 
through February 4, 1976. Gallery hours 
are Tuesday - Friday, 10 am to 4 pm and 
Sunday, noon to 4 pm.
Mrs. Groer has taught art in Pittsburgh 
Public Schools and in the Penn Hills school 
district. She is now teaching water color 
and enameling at the Arts and Crafts Cen­
ter. She has won prizes at shows of state 
and local craftsmen’s guild, the Three 
Rivers, and the Associated Artists.
Students with an interest in film may be 
finding that study opportunities are limit­
ed or that colleges have had to curtail 
their filmmaking programs due to econom­
ic cutbacks. The Gray Film Atelier, a non­
profit, independent film studio with at­
tached apprentice school, offers an alterna­
tive filmmaking program. The Atelier, now 
in its fifth year of operation, receives 
grants from the New York State Council 
on the Arts and the National Endowment. 
The year long Atelier program is designed 
to facilitate the transfer of credits to nu­
merous colleges, and a portfolio of profes­
sional references is available upon comple­
tion of the apprentice-study program.
The Gray Film Atelier is located in 
Hoosick Falls, New York, just across the 
Vermont border. The Atelier bridges the 
gulf between the classroom and the real­
ities of a working studio. Apprentices gain 
professional experience working on studio 
projects while writing and directing short 
works of their own. Each apprentice learns 
the entire studio process from the creation 
of an initial idea through treatment and 
story conferences, shooting, the several 
editing stages, and, finally, publicity and 
distribution. Beginners are often accepted.
Candidates for the 1976-77 Atelieer 
program are now being reviewed. Interest­
ed students should write the Gray Film 
Atelier, Wilson Hill Road, Hoosick Falls, 
N.Y. 12090 for more detailed information.
College and University students who 
have been studying photography at Pitts­
burgh Film-Makers for the past semester 
are showing varied and highly experiment­
al work at the Film-Maker’s Photography 
Gallery. In addition to conventional silver- 
based photographs, a number of “non­
silver” prints will be exhibited. Students 
exhibiting in the gallery are from the Uni­
versity of Pittsburgh, Point Park College, 
and Chatham College. Their work will be 
on display through Sunday, January 11, 
1976.
For more information call 681-5449. 
The Gallery is open weekdays from 9 am 
to 9 pm, and noon to 5 on Saturday. 
PFMI is located at 205 Oakland Avenue 
in Oakland. Admission is free.
On Tuesday, January 13 at 8:15 pm, 
Isaac Stern, America’s master violinist and 
Pinchas Zukerman, the brilliant Israeli 
violinist who is also an exceptionally 
fine viola player, combine to present a 
fascinating program of music for two 
violins and for violin and viola.
This gala program commemorates the 
50th Anniversary of the Y Music Society’s 
world renowned recital series and will take 
place in the Morris Kaufmann Auditorium 
of the Oakland Jewish Community Center 
at 315 S. Bellefield Ave. It was from this 
very same hall that both artists first were 
heard in Pittsburgh. Isaac Stern appeared 
in 1942, and Pinchas Zukerman debuted 
in 1966. Their program will include works 
by Mozart, Prokofiev, Leclair, Wieniawski 
and Spohr.
Tickets are available by calling the Y 
Music Society at 521-8010. Since the 
number of tickets requested for this con­
t <t Coffee House It <Ç. in the Wherrett Room ^
^ Thurs., Fri., Sat 9:30— ^
üu 
< 
< < 
< 
<
UAVi
Featuring Harlan White, Folk Singer
FREE¦4
hAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAA
cert is expected to be unusually high, addi­
tional seating will be installed to accommo­
date those atttending.
Beginning on January 10 and continu­
ing through January 28 at Kingpitcher 
Gallery will be an exhibition of sculpture 
by ClementMeadmore.
to 5:00.
The original Broadway production of 
the musical comedy “Man of La Mancha,” 
starring a veteran of the Broadway show -- 
David Atkinson -- in the title role of Don 
Quixote-Cervantes, arrives to play four 
shows only in Heinz Hall, Feb. 9-11, in-
The legendary drums and pipes of Scotland's BLACK WATCH appear in "The British Are Coming
at the Civic Arena in Pittsburgh on January 20
Meadmore, born in Melbourne Aus­
tralia in 1929 is known internationally 
for his monumental sculptures in corten 
steel. Exhibited at Kingpitcher Gallery will 
be many of his studies and pedestal pieces.
For further information please contact 
Kingpitcher Gallery at 687-4343. Gallery 
hours: Tuesday through Saturday 11:00
eluding a Wednesday matinee. The “Man 
of La Mancha” engagement will conclude 
Heinz Hall’s premiere Broadway Theater 
Series, which has played to almost 100 per 
cent capacity audiences.
For further information contact Gene 
Palatsky or William Kessler.
Ab Concert Committe Presents:
JOHN HARTFORD
IN CONCERT
SATURDAY, JANUARY 24 
AT 8:00 P.M. IN SKIBO 
BALLROOM
E27Lp53: U(Tii 6HPoFFp-p c­Q UdTii OpapntF NrbF27 
vft2FtbFp t5 9L2bo caBonCt52oa ­p3L 
oa —oa,tMg StaT ue

---------------------------------------------------

Page 8—THE TARTAN-January 13, 1976
BCoded": 5cAPARO Ckic
by Mark Spina
Razor Blades is a morality play being 
performed, directed, and constantly rewrit­
ten by Theater X, a professional touring 
ensemble which recentiy came to rest in 
Pitt’s 99 cent Floating Theater. The actors 
of the troupe take a concept, improvise 
upon it, and slowly develop it as it is being 
performed, using what they learn from 
audience reaction to improve their work. 
In the case of Razor Blades the subject is 
the horrors of everyday life in the 20th 
century, and the alternative to facing 
them: suicide (represented by the blades).
The play moves quickly, with all the 
tension of an Alfred Hitchcock thriller, 
even in its funniest moments. Even as the 
actors are moving through a series of 
hilarious skits and monologues illustrating 
the anxieties of modern man, the audience 
is never sure when one or all of the five
will turn to the razor blade for escape. The 
fears presented are wide-ranging, beginning 
with the trivial in the “I’m not” sequence 
in which the troupe moves around the stage, 
smilingly announcing that they 'die not 
“chronic under-arm offenders; allowing 
their sex-lives to suffer from improper 
tooth care; frigid ; violaters of Barbie and 
Ken dolls; or Richard Nixon,” among other 
things. This is followed by a segment in 
which the cast describes the nightmares 
peculiar to the 20th cejitury: nuclear 
warfare (I dreamed they tested the biggest 
atomic bomb ever made because they were 
thinking of using it), mass famine, and 
ecological disaster...
The Second Act deals with the more-uh- 
personal problems of the bedroom, those 
fears that can interfere with the love-sex 
relationships between a man and a woman; 
a man and a man; a woman and a woman; 
a man, a man and a woman: and a man and
his mirror. This sequence reaches its climax 
in song led by John Schneider, in which he 
reveals the only way to prove devotion: 
“If you love me, slit your wrists.” The song 
continues as he enumerates other methods 
of suicide while the rest of the troupe 
pantomiaes in the background*
The troupe is marvelously versatile. 
They switch without a moment’s notice 
from stylized to natural interpretations of 
their work, from humorous to dramatic, 
from pitiful to majesiic. The ensemble 
spirit is never «lost, even during those 
sequences in which one performer is 
featured. The material they have developed 
up to this point is generally good, although 
some may consider it to be nudging the 
boundaries of good taste even in a dramatic 
frame of reference. Some of the techniques 
used to evoke the informal, “experimen­
tal” atmosphere were a bit contrived. The
plain white backdrop of the stage was only 
half-lowered, to reveal the carefully arrang­
ed clutter in the backstage area. While the 
audience was being seated, members 
. of the cast made token gestures around the 
stage, arranging a few small props that 
could have been moved before. This small 
piece of chicanery doesn’t detract
from the play, but Razor Blades doesn’t 
really need it. No one will doubt it’s 
originality or spontaneity.
The point that the play makes is that, 
despite all the limitations that our fears 
and our society impose upon us, we are 
still free, merely by existing. As long as we 
live we have the freedom to end it all, but 
once dead, we cannot come back. In spite 
of this “happy ending”, I wouldn’t recom­
mend the play for the suicidal, or 50% of 
CMU’s student population.
An Unenterprising Star Trektacular
It was the best Star Trek convention I’ve 
ever been to. This, unfortunately, is not as 
complimentary as it sounds. The 
‘Pittsburgh Star Trektacular’ was the first 
Star Trek convention I’d been to. If this is 
the shape of things to come, it may well be
my last.
The con apparently started out as a good 
idea, but it went rapidly downhill. Origin­
ally, it was to be held in honor of Leonard 
Nimoy, while he was in town to be in 
Twelfth Night. Through some shrewd and 
ingenious methods, the convention com- 
mitee mariaged to get things moving. 
Names that any good Star Trek fan would 
recognize started appearing on the guest 
list: George Takei, James Doohan,
De Forest Kelly, and even William Shatner. 
So more and more people registered to 
attend.
Then things started going wrong. The con­
vention committee members were quickly 
becoming disenchanted with each other. v 
few days before the convention, most of 
them quit. Nansi Hoy remained long
enough to make sure the convention got 
off the ground. But not even her efforts 
did much good. Leonard Nimoy, the ‘chief 
guest of honor,’ was blatantly ignored 
when he called to arrange the arrival time 
for his speech on Sunday .Apparently, he, 
declined to attend the convention at all 
after this incident. About a week later, 
however, he did appear at the University 
of Pittsburgh to sign autographs.
Most of the convention ran into trouble, 
no matter what program was attempted to 
run. The ‘Babel Conference’ had to be can­
celled. Due to a conflict with the use of a 
program room, the costume party was held 
in the hallway. The ‘Memorabilia Quiz’ 
never materialized.
One part of the convention which 
seemed to be fairly well organized was the
huckster rooms. This is probably not too 
surprising as the organizing committee for 
the con was comprised of people who go 
from convention to convention for the sole 
purpose of selling Star Trek memorabilia. 
The definition of this term seemed to be 
anything with the words 
Star Trek on it. Everything from orginal 
shooting scripts, to scripts which fans 
themselves have written; to buttons, slides, * 
costumes, cufflinks, fanzines, books, 
watches, toys, models,...even ‘Mr. Spock 
Lollypops’.
It is sad that a show whose effect was and 
still is, as great as Star Trek’s should be 
commercialized to this extent. It would be 
a great pity if the downfall of the starship 
Enterprise was caused, not by Klingons or 
Romulans, but by salesmen.
JANUARY 
THURSm\mWFORUMS
ASSAULT!
—2Lp PonFp552g ­2np75on oB 
9p7rn25Mg P —x
8obb2 9aM,pnT ca35nr75ong 
0tAp Pn2323 Ppa5pn
22
PRISON LIFE: 
Would You Be On 
Your Best Behavior?
So/a PtnnoFFg ­pA5 oB N3M7/oFo-M 
625/ 5/p »2Cbtn,o Nn23oa 95r,M 
9F2,p Nnp3pa5t52oarun
29
Can You Canoe 
In A Cement Canoe?
i ]p Pta: NnoB l, &noLo3LMg N/M3273
0 o
NnoBT P/tnFp3 Ooo, 3App,g 
o P2f2F la-2appn2a-
12:30Wherrett Room Bring Lunch And A Friend Sponsored by Campus Program Planning

---------------------------------------------------

THE TARTAN—January 13, 1976—Page 9
On Joni's 'Lawns' and Neil's 'Zuma'
Joni Mitchell has resurfaced with a 
new musical gem. The finished product 
is entitled The Hissing of Summer Lawns. 
This latest release is just a another step 
further in the developing sound of Joni 
Mitchell. There are a few pleasant sur­
prises, but basically it’s a continuation of 
the muscial ideas that Joni started on her 
previous works.
Like Court and Spark there seems to 
be a jazz backbone to the music, but the 
big difference with this new recording is 
the lack of melody. Joni’s latest ten songs 
all have a very vague sense of melodic 
line. To the average laywoman (and lay­
man) this means that these aren’t the kind 
of songs that a person can go around 
humming. With the exception of “Center­
piece”, which is the one song that Joni 
didn’t write, all of the music is compli­
cated.
Joni explains in the liner notes that her 
new album is a total work that has been 
conceived as a whole and I most certainly 
agree. There are a couple of songs that do 
not stand alone on their own merit. “The 
Jungle Line” is a good example of this. 
The song is done with little more than a 
drum which keeps the beat for Joni’s 
superb voice. Though the poetry is com­
pletely moving, “The Jungle Line” is 
actually just a great lead-in for the next 
song.
While I’m on the subject of poetry, I 
should note that there is a subtle change 
from Joni’s usual personal confession. 
Many of the new songs are stories set to 
music. Joni is personifying herself through 
these new characters that move in a sen­
sual yet captive manner in the city streets. 
There are Catholic saints as well as 
glimpses of Brando, Gable, and Errol
Flynn. At times this new illusive device 
creates such a tangled web that the listener 
is not really sure where the songs are 
going.
Even with some of these rough points, 
The Hissing of Summer Lawns has some 
fabulous moments. Joni’s vocals are better 
and more versatile than ever. “In France 
They Kiss on Main Street” is a good ex­
ample of this. The cut really moves and 
Joni paints a picture of the good times 
to be found while rocking and rolling in 
the downtown cafes. Graham Nash, David 
Crosby, and James Taylor lend a hand on 
this cut and it makes a great starting point 
for her to take off from. There are a few 
other numbers worth mentioning, but 
I’m mesmerized by the song, “Center­
piece”. This is the jazziest number on the 
entire disc. The piano player really goes to 
town and Joni appears to be having a real 
good time with the Billie Hollidayish vo­
cals.
It would be fair to say that Joni 
Mitchell’s music has matured much the 
way the Beatles’ music progressed from 
their early days to their Abbey Road peri­
od. Joni is the most adventuresome female 
artist around, and, like other great artists, 
Joni is continually exploring new and 
different dimensions. Her latest effort 
is probably not her best but it is just as 
stimulating as any of her previous works.
I am still partial to Court and Spark but 
if Court and Spark is Joni Mitchell’s 
ivory broach then The Hissing of Summer 
Lawns is her mood ring.
Another great artist from the Sixties 
has released a new collection of songs. Old 
timer Neil Young is back and it seems that 
the more popular that Ms. Mitchell gets the 
less popular Neil Young becomes.
Young’s latest release is called Zuma 
and I’ve been informed that Zuma is a 
beach in California where Neil Young 
has been residing. I am not sure if the 
beach has anything to do with Neil 
Young’s new musical head but he’s finally 
shrugging off the despair of his last few 
efforts. Zuma is a straight-pitched stab 
at rock and roll. Young’s old companions 
known as Crazy Horse are back with him 
and they never sounded better. Crazy 
Horse’s grinding rhythm and solid back-up 
vocals really highlight Neil's words and 
high-spirited vocals. All of the lead guitar 
work is quite good without ever sounding 
flashy, and if your are an old Neil Young 
fan, this new sound should automatically 
remind you of the days of “Down by the
River” and “Cinnamon Girl”.
The real beauty of this album lies in the 
fact that Neil Young has returned to writ­
ing those great melodies that originally 
brought Young his recognition. “Don’t 
Cry No Tears” is the lead off number and 
it’s a rocking love song. Young strains his 
voice and even his guitar, but it can’t be 
denied that Neil has written one of his 
prettiest melodies to date. “Pardon My 
Heart” sounds reminiscent of the old 
Buffalo Springfield days. That’s the name 
of some defunct California band that 
included Richey Furray, Jim Messina, 
Steve Stills, and of course Neil Young.
There are a couple of tunes that reach 
for the feeling that Young once used so 
successfully during the days of Harvest 
and After the Gold Rush. Neil waits until 
the very last cut to spring the biggest sur­
prise of the entire recording. Some old 
friends by the name of Crosby, Stills and 
Nash help out on “Through My Sails”. 
It’s a beautiful acoustic closing for a lovely 
pop-infested album and the words relate 
back to the idea of the beach and the sea.
In the latest Neil Young interview, 
Young tries to disguise the rare beauty that 
Zuma lives up to, but don’t be deceived 
because there is a fine sense of musical 
direction and rock and roll memory being 
explored.
Special thanks to Gary Singer 
and the Tartan for the Neil Young release 
and LONG HAND SHAKES 
for Penniwell and Tom Jacoby 
both of whom seem to laugh it all away.
Frozen Stiff Quiff
READ TOO SLOW!!
STOP READING LIKE THEY DID 200 YEARS AGO...
TO LEARN HOW ATTEND A FREE INTRODUCTORY LESSON
INCREASE YOUR READING SPEED 
& Comprehension FREE
Come spend an amazing houf with us at a FREE 
MO OBLIGATION LESSON. Not only wül you in 
a ease your readinq speed and comprshemjor» 
immediately. you will'also -earn how you con 
s»'<: Kite yct.r eadirq spe.jcJ 3 Jim*:*? and
¡•np ove your comprohors*on i - -.iS 'y. ¦«*.*'» of 
matonals.
The FREE INTRODUCTORY LESSONS will be held TUESDAY 
thru THURSDAY at 4:30 and 7:30 P. M. 
JEWISH COMMUNITY CfcN IER - 31 5 S. Bellefield Avenue, 
Oakland Room 408
E1l .lv0hchO PlhEl0 
u(y ]2FF2tC Npaa 1o5pF N2553brn-/g NtT uk(ue 
Xyu(? deuK'(me
Licensed by The Pennsylvania Department of Education
S7O0 SUNG MISLtAD BY UNREALISTIC Cl AIMS AND HIGH PRICES 
BifOfi£ YOU TAKE ANY OTHER READING COURSE COMPARE I

---------------------------------------------------

Page 10-THE TARTAN-January 13,1976
SPORTS COMMENTARY
SPORTS COST MONEY...LOTS OF MONEY
by Elly Zimmerman
CMU is suffering from an incurable 
disease. For at least four years this univer­
sity has been plagued with mediocre foot­
ball teams, impoverished basketball teams 
and a general lack of respectable athletics 
of any type. These trends have perpetuat­
ed student feelings of disgust, apathy and 
at times even humor toward varsity sports 
at CMU. President Cyert realizing the 
plight stated recently, “It is not good to 
have students engaging in athletics with the 
attitude that they’re going to lose.”
This past year marked the beginning of 
a new sports era at CMU or so it seemed. 
New faces appeared on campus including 
James Banner, the new Athletic Director 
from Pitt. With Banner came a chance for 
change. At that time CMU’s sports pro­
gram was declining toward a new low. The 
only chance for recovery was change... 
drastic change. Banner presented the 
opportunity and the administration pro­
vided the funds. Money magically appear­
ed for the main gym’s renovation, the new 
tennis court fences and for five new 
physical education staff members including 
the new Head Football Coach, Cfluck 
Klausing. During a transition period 
many changes are made. One danger is 
that the improvements are spotlighted 
whereas the means by which these changes 
are attained are obscure .
The most obvious means for change is 
money. To determine the spending poli-
photo by Elliot Popowitz
James Banner, the Athletic Director, and Wayne 
Nickerson, the soccer coach discussing the season.
cies of the athletic department the TAR­
TAN interviewed James Banner, the 
Athletic Director. During the interview 
questions arose concerning the budget 
allocation for varsity sports as compared to 
intramurals. Other questions relating to 
the budget were ^Iso asked. The most 
interesting aspect of the interview was 
Banner’s statements: “I don’t know”, “I 
don’t have the figures”, “I can’t answer 
your question”, “It’s hard to say”, and 
“I’m guessing”. The questions that were 
answered proved to be very interesting.
Wanted:MBA’slooking for options.
Chase Bank wants MBA’s who 
need more than one way to grow.
We offer diverse and flexible 
careers in financial management. 
And we aim to develop managers 
whose career options broaden as 
they progress with us.
To find out more about Chase— 
and to let us find out about you— 
check our career literature in 
your Placement Office and sign 
up for an interview.
Campus interviews January 19
If you can’t make it to an inter­
view, write to Linda Verhoff at the 
address below:
Chase Manhattan Bank 
1 Chase Manhattan Plaza,
New York, N.Y. 10015 
An Equal Opportunity Employer
CHASE
ZIMMERMAN: The overall budget for
varsity athletics for departmental expenses 
was about $81,000. That was about dou­
ble last year’s figures if I’m not incorrect. 
BANNER: It wasn’t doubled.
Z: It wasn’t doubled?
B: See most of the money went into salar­
ies. That?s where the big increase was. 
Z: Salaries are separate. The salaries and 
wages were about $100,000 but depart­
mental expenses were $81,000 and from 
a TARTAN article last year or the year 
before, they said departmental expenses 
were about $46,000.
B: It had to be more than that. j
would guess it would be about $30,000 
or $35,000.
Z: You’re saying that this year’s budget 
[Varsity excluding salaries] is $30,000 or 
$35,000 more than last year’s. 
B: Right, that’s operating expenses.
Z: So there’s about $30,000 increase.
What was the reason for this? What areas 
were increased to account for this? 
B: As I see it now, projecting, there was 
more money put into women’s athletics
TAN interviewed him again to see if he 
could elaborate on this $30,000 increase. 
The following is an excerpt from this in­
terview.
ZIMMERMAN: Last time I was in here
you mentioned that the varsity budget had 
increased by $30,000 or $35,000 this year 
and you said the money was spent on 
equipment and painting the gym. 
BANNER: No, I didn’t give that order . 
That was all done before I got here. All 
the painting was done before I got here. 
Z: I just want to know where this addi­
tional money was spent because it didn’t 
seem like what you had said earlier would 
equal $30,000.
B: Well it went toward money and equip­
ment for all sports, for better travel... 
It’s hard to say that you really put it here 
or put it there and some of it hasn’t been 
spent yet.
Z: What is going to concern the students is 
where has it been spent so far and so far 
your answer hasn’t been too specific. It 
has only been well here or there and that
With the amount of money CMU spent on extra football uniforms this year ($200 to $300/uniform) 
they could have supported the CMU Hockey Club.
and more money for basketball. 
Z: How much more money went into
women’s athletics?
B: I don’t know what they had last year 
but I know Miss Fisk [Women’s Physical 
Education Coordinator] got everything 
she asked for last year.
Z: At the most it was only a couple thou­
sand more but we’re talking $30,000. 
B: The big thing was the improvement of 
the equipment and some of the facilities. 
Z: I thought that came under physical
plant.
B: I wish it did.
Banner was unable to provide an ade­
quate explanation for this increase. A 
few days after the first interview the TAR-
doesn’t sound like a lot of money but 
$30,000 is a considerable amount of 
money.
B: It sure is and equipment is very costly. 
B: Everything has improved and every­
thing costs more so the total operation has 
increased.
Z: Inflation is like nine percent.
B: Right.
Z: Okay nine percent, $30,000 was like 
you said less than doubled the figure from 
the year before but it was a substantial in­
crease. It wasn’t anywhere near nine per­
cent. It was a lot more than that. You’re 
talking about more than inflationary 
spending.
B: Yes, I agree with you. You take that 
____ continued on page eleven
84hvc 840cE1 1c..l.K 
Sl]c91 xhcsl09cEj PlhEl0
IITHE OCCULT IN JUDAISM"
bM 0tbb2 vFf2a ST 8obnoBB oB hp6 jonL
Monday January 19 7:30 p.m.
Where? Hillel Lounge, 3rd floor, 31 5 S. Bellefield
duk 9T 8pFFpB2pF, vfparp 
Xv7no33 BnoC 1p2a) P/tApF?
m(uK''Dk
_______

---------------------------------------------------

THE TARTAN-January 13, 1976-Page 11
:PHRTS COMMENTARY
SO FAR NO IMPROVEMENT IN SIGHT
;ontinued from page ten 
ine percent for equipment, improved soc- 
er...It doesn’t take long and some of it 
wasn’t been spent . The whole $30,000 
hasn’t been spent yet.
: Do you have any plans for the rest of the 
oney? Is it still going to go to varsity sports? sjze?
Some of it is going to go to paying BANNER: 
oach Klausing’s salary this year.
Z: Oh, it is? I’m
sure you weren’t anticipating Klauiing 
being here so why was the budget increased 
initially? Just because you happened to 
have this extra money for him was nice but 
I don’t think it was planned that way orig­
inally was it?
B: No, I had planned to improve each of 
the sports...
Z: So did you ask for this certain amount 
of money this year?
B: Yes.
Z: So you had a basis for wanting that
particular amount and that was to improve 
all that you just said. Just because you 
happened to have extra to pay for Klaus­
ing’s salary doesn’t mean...
B: I wouldn’t say that it was extra but we 
had to pay for him out of it.
Z: Is something going to suffer?
B: I haven’t seen anybody suffering yet.
Z: You should have had an intention for 
using the money you aked for. Therefore 
it stands to reason that because you’re 
spending it on his salary then something 
you originally planned to use it for is not 
going to receive funds.
B: No one is going to be hurt.
The above portion of the interview in­
dicates that Banner does not know how 
he is going to allocate this money and 
secondly that this increase may have been 
unnecessary. An example of some exces­
sive spending is below.
ZIMMERMAN: When you’re talking about 
that type of costs[$200 to $300 dollars,to 
outfit a football player] why do you have 
so many players like in particular this year 
we had the largest squad ever, seventy play­
ers. Half of them didn’t even play most of 
the games. Why do you outfit a squad that
How do you know half of 
them didn’t play?
Z: You just look at their uniforms when 
you’re watching the game and see how 
many have dirty uniforms.
B: Oh Elly, come on.
Z: Really on a muddy field you
can tell how many players are playing. 
B: Forty players.
Z: That means thirty aren’t and your 
paying $300 per uniform.
B: There were 63 players.
Z: When you’re under a financial restric- 
you just cut the team that is the most lo­
gical thing to do, instead of spending mo­
ney for nothing.
B: What do you mean for nothing? Those 
fellows get someting out of it, camaraderie, 
they’ve got practice, a lot of people enjoy 
being part of it.
Another area of interest to the stu­
dents is the intramural budget compared 
to the varsity budget. Banner’s views on 
this matter are below.
ZIMMERMAN: In looking at some more 
figures here it is apparent that intramurals 
receives about seven percent of the total 
amount that varsity athletics receives. 
That’s for departmental expenses alone 
not looking at salaries. Okay for the num­
ber of students participating in IM’s do 
you think that that sort of shows a grave 
inequality between the two areas? 
BANNER: No, I don’t. How would you 
spend it if you had more?
EARN
up to
80.00 per Month
as a plasma donor at
Sera-Tec Biologicals
only 4 hours per week and 
you can study while you're donating
for information call us at
682-3190
or stop in. We are located at
3407 FORBES Ave.
(next to Arby's in Oakland) 
oApa —oaT E/nrT E/rn3T ':yk tTCT 5o D:ii ATCT
Rn2T ':yk tTCT 5o y:ii ATCT
Z: In IM’s I personally think that they
need more facilities and you say that’s a 
large sum of money and I say fine so why 
don’t you start saving money toward that 
goal? Intramurals is getting some ridic­
ulously low number $5,000 a year or 
something like that and varsity gets around 
$100,000. If they started saying that we’re 
going to look forward to building some 
new facilities so we’re going to make a 
fund to do that, it would be good, but 
there is no such fund as far as I know. 
Nothing is going to change because no one 
seems interested.
B: How do you know its not going to
change?
Banner went on to say that they are in­
vestigating the cost of paddle tennis courts, 
handball and racquetball courts (converting 
Thistle Hall), resurfacing the tennis courts, 
lighting the tennis courts, and possibly put­
ting up outside basketball hoops.
Z: I sort of think that you should set
priorities. Instead of saying oh we need 
everything.
B: I’ve set priorities but we have to look 
at cost in relationship to priorities.
Z: You’re saying you need all these figures 
before you can do anything and that’s not 
true.
B: It is true.
Z: You have your first priority. Find the 
smallest amount you can spend.
B: Suppose you can’t afford your first
priority...you build your second one right 
if you have the money?
Z: No. If its your first priority you’ll
stick with it.
B: You’d rather sit with it and not have 
anything than take the second one which 
you can afford.
Z: It depends. If that means the first one 
is never going to be taken care of then 
that’s not good either because you’re just 
going to skip to the second and just keep
skipping on down the list and the first one 
will never be done.
B: As long as you’re adding new facilities 
that can be available to students isn’t that 
a good move?
Z: I don’t think that building paddle ten­
nis courts is a good move at this point.
B: Well that’s your opinion.
B: If we didn’t have the money to get
handball courts wouldn’t it be better to 
get paddle tennis courts.
Z: No.
B: You’d rather have nothing.
Z: I think you should go up there and fix 
those handball courts as least semi respect­
ably fix them as much as you can. You 
can do that easier than you can build 
paddle tennis courst, it’s cheaper.
B: Then you still have little old small
courts that too small really for official 
games.
Z: I know but at least the appearance of 
them is not degrading.
B: It’s awful I don’t know how anyone 
plays on them.
Z: You don’t see anything that can be
done presently to upgrade the intramural 
program?
B: The biggest thing we can do for IM’s 
is to increase the amount of playing space 
that we have.
The sudden Udigiii increase in the 
athletic budget is illustrative of the admin­
istrations new attitude toward sports. 
However, CMU’s last place ranking in the 
PAC’s All-Sports Standings suggests this 
infusion of money is not helping the over­
all varsity program. Hopefully the new 
football coach, Chuck Klausing, whom 
Jim Banner describes as “the best coach 
in America,” will have better luck next 
fall than Maloney (the new basketball 
coach) is having this winter.
If Dr. Cyert really believes it’s not good 
to have athletes playing with the attitude 
that they’re going to lose, perhaps the 
ey would be better spent on intramurals.
xhcsl09cEj z0vEz0j zR 
E1l 1z.j 9Nc0cE Nv0c91 
P—x Pv—Nx9
SATURDAY MASS ... * ................... ...........7*00 P.M. - Tech House
SUNDAY MASS.........................10:30 A.M. — Science Hall (Rm 7500)
DAILY MASS (Mon.-Frl.)  ...............................StOO P.M. — Tech House
Fathers John Walsh or Bob English 
Tech House 5125 Margaret Morrison 621-2911
JANUARY 
CLEARANCE
25% to 50%
on all
Fall & Winter Fashions
• Dresses
• Suede Jackets
• Leather Coots
• Handbags
• Sportswear
• Jewelry
atwood at forbes (across from the black angus) 
10 Q mnn A fri 681-788810-9 mon. & fri.
10 6 tues., wed., thurs. & sat.

---------------------------------------------------

Page 12-THE TARTAN-January 13, 1976
CMU TEAM RANKS 5
CMU's basketball team winless after their first six games. After four away 
they will be returning home Wednesday to play Bethany at 3:00 in the Skibo gym.HERE WE GO AGAIN!
by Elly Zimmerman
CMU’s basketball team dropped their 
fifth straight against Case Western Reserve 
last Wednesday with the final score of 
87-79. Paul Hamerly was high point scorer 
with 27 points followed by Marty Costa 
with 17, Ralph Deabrunzzo with 15 and 
Larry Dieicco with 10.
The night of the game it started snow­
ing and when the team arrived at CWR 
they found out they had their first aid kit 
instead of their warm up uniforms. To top 
off the evening, at half time CMU was 
kicked out of the locker room by three 
girls dressed in karate uniforms.
Coach Maloney’s account of the game 
was the following. “Sluggish first half, 
Larry Dicicco got his third foul with ten 
minutes to go which hurt us offensively 
and defensively. Second half we came out 
and did a good job. We go ahead by nine 
with about eleven minutes to go and then 
we went cold. We couldn’t get a bucket. 
They came down and hit two or three in a 
row and we just had trouble scoring. Be­
fore you know it they go up by four with 
t five, minutes fto go and they start to hold 
the ball. Then we had a foul. The last 
eleven or twelve points they scored were 
on the foul line because we were just
fouling to try to get the ball back and of 
course they kept making them. They 
scored 89 points. I’d say we played poor­
ly defensively overall but we gave them at 
least ten points at the end of the game at 
the foul line because of desperation. They 
made them there was nothing else we could 
do. My feeling is we try to win and not 
keep the score close. We could have kept it 
close and lost by five. It ended up 87-79. 
It was our best offensive performance as 
far as total points scored this year.”
Maloney went on to comment about 
Dennis Derringer who suffered an ankle 
injury early in the season. “Derringer 
played about ten minutes. He’s not back 
to his full strength as he was for the St. 
Vincents game but he’s close to it.”
CMU played John Carroll Sat. night in 
Cleveland and suffered their six straight 
loss of the season. To quote an article 
from the TARTAN “First year basketball 
coaches have not had a history of great 
success at this school.”
CMU’s next home game will be Wed­
nesday January 14th at 3:00 against 
Bethany. Bethany will be the first home 
game after four on the road.
by Keith Hozmueller
The Pan-American Intercollegiate Chess 
Tournament is generally recognized as the 
collegiate chess championship of North 
America. The tournament is open to teams 
of four to six players from any school, and 
is held annually from December 26 to De­
cember 30. This year the championship 
was held in Columbus Ohio.
Since this is an open tournament, the 
large numberof entries makes it necessary 
to make pairings by the swiss system. In 
this system, opponents are determined by 
grouping all teams with .equal numbers of 
match points and pairing the top half of 
this of this group against the bottom half 
according to pretournament rankings. Each 
team plays four players, and the team with 
the most winning players wins the match. 
Teams receive one match point for a vic­
tory, one half for a draw, and zero for a 
loss, the team with the most match points 
after eight rounds of play is the winner.
This year’s tourney drew 123 teams, a 
Pan-American record. For the first time, 
CMU sent two teams with the idea that ¡.he 
‘B’ team would gain valuable experience 
for future years. Going into the tourna­
ment, the CMU ‘A’ team was rated 17th 
and the ‘B’team was ranked 64th. The ‘A’ 
team consisted of Bruce Leverett, Keith 
Holzmueller, David Levner, Saul Youssef, 
and Rick Edahl, the ‘B’ team Bob Scheid, 
James Carr, Rodney Strychor, and Tim 
Sage.
The result was a success for both teams, 
CMU ‘A’ wound up with a 6-2 record, and 
CMU ‘B’ finished at 4-4 while playing 
higher ranked teams in most of their 
matches.
The ‘A’ team needed some luck to finish 
as well as they did. They won only one 
match by more than the minimum 2.5-1.5 
score. Strangely enough this happened 
when they handed tenth-rated Chicago 
their only loss of the tournament. However 
CMU could not slip by MIT, losing 2.5-1.5,
Refreshercourse.
From one beer lover to another.
THE STROH BREWERY COMPANY, DETROIT, MICHIGAN 48226
and were held to draws by Chicago ‘B5 and 
lowly Carleton College.
The team’s biggest break came in the 
critical last round against Purdue Univer­
sity. A win by Leverett and a Levner Loss 
left the score 1-1 while Edahl and Holz­
mueller had unclear positions. Fortunately 
Edahl’s opponent blundered and lost in a 
won position, and then Holzmueller held 
on to draw and win the match. This win 
enabled CMU to tie for fifth place behind 
Nebraska, Harvard, Case Western, and 
Chicago, but ahead of such teams as Yale, 
Penn, UCLA, Dartmouth, and Loop Jr. 
College.
With all of the above players expected 
to return next year, an even higher finish 
in the future can be hoped for.
JOT THIS DOWN
IM BASKETBALL — Entries due on Tues­
day January 13th at 4:30. Please note 
the league in which you wish to com­
pete (Major, intermediate, or minor) 
and pay the forfeit fee ($2.50). Play 
begins Monday January 19th. Sign up 
on the IM bulletin board in the gym 
for practice times.
RULES CLINIC - Each IM basketball 
team must send a representative to this 
meeting on January 14th at 4:30 in 
the women’s gym.
IM HANDBALL AND BRIDGE - Entries 
due Tuesday January 27th at 4:30.
WRESTLING AND WATER BASKET­
BALL — Entries due lesday January 27th 
at 4:30.
IM BOARD — Important meeting Tuesday 
January 13th at 4:30 in the IM office.
3-MAN VOLLEYBALL - Minor league 
results: Chicken Coop defeated the 
Rutabagas in the finals 15-8, 15-5. 
Intermediate League: TX-B beat 
PKT in the finals 15-11, 16-14.
TABLE TENNIS — The Mappers will 
play 5-E in the semifinals and the 
winner of this will play the “Zoo” 
for the championship.
Alone & Pregnant? 
CALL BIRTHRIGHT 
m(uKue''
CONFIDENTIAL HELP FOUR BLOCKS 
FROM CAMPUS
^TherelSa ! difference!!!
* PREPARE FOR
MCAT : DAT: LSAT : GRE: ATGSB : OCAT : CPAT : FLEX :ECFMG i NATI MED BOS
I Local Classes
! 681-9735
Over 35 years of experience «id success
Small classes
Voluminous hom 
study materials
Courses that are constantly updat
Make-ups for 
missed lessons
,r» 15217aneti«* "U S. Gt>«t
